v^^ 


">- 

.00..     ^                ^     ^ 

^/^      --.o-'/- 

^>^^.  ^       7  -^x 

^                                    v'\                             '^/ 

a^ 

V.              /:    x^ 

0^ 


»  I  * 


o- 


/  'Z'  O    N   0  \V  ^ 


-^  s^  . '  %  .^'  ^* 


■<     ^o 


^-^^x 
x'?-^ 


^^y       ^. ''-  '^^  %•  Q 


^-  *,, 


0  -   '  >' W-- 


\. 


^0^ 


.-i- 


°^       *   0    K  0  ^         ,#      ^ 


C*.  *- 


nV 


.^v"^'     J^  ,f 


^  ,/   -^^^    •*.,  %  ,0-    ^"^"^' 


\^^x. 


\>     ^'  "o 


\^'  ^^. 


.0^ 


•f     (?    <^ 


•^o  ,.\ 


^'^ 


a\^' 


'^. 


\d^ 


C>        y 


.V>' 


,,,   "°^/,     ^o^'o^"    ,\^' 


c"^- 


'/,     "C- 


\      ^^.-    V-^' 


•  0 


^,^'     ^:iJ^m^  '%^ 


^ 


•^-^  ^\ 


\- 


iV' 


0- 


■"oo^ 


-^^ 


aV    ^  ^  "  «       -7-        '  '   ' 


'^^   *  a  N  0  '      \ 


v'^' 


v^ 


o  0 


.v^ 


>  ^. 


«        -f-. 


The  Nature  Cure  Cook  Book 

================  AND  — 

A  B  C  of  Natural  Dietetics 


BY 

MRS.  ANNA  LINDLAHR 
h 

AND 

HENRY  LINDLAHR,  M.  D. 


FIRST  EDITION 


PUBLISHED  BY 
THE  NATURE  CURE  PUBLISHING  CO. 
525-529  S.  ASHLAND  BOULEVARD 
CHICAGO  » 


^+ 


copteioht,  1915 

By  Mrs.  Anna  Lindlaub 

All  Bights  'Reserved 


JAN  20  1915 
©CI.A:i93369 


FOREWORD 

In  this  volume  we  do  not  intend  to  advance  dog- 
matic, one-sided  assertions  concerning  the  many-sided 
and  difficult  problems  of  hygiene  and  nutrition,  but  we 
shall  turn  on  these,  from  various  angles,  the  light  of 
rational  inquiry  so  that  the  reader  may  be  able  to  draw 
his  own  conclusions  and  to  test  them  in  practical 
experience. 

THE  AUTHORS. 


INDEX  TO  PART  I 

PAGES 

Key  to  Our  System  of  Recipe  Marking 1 

Advantages  of  our  System 1-2 

Classification  of  Foods   3 

Illustrations  of  Recipe  Marking 4-5 

What  Constitutes  a  Natural  Diet 6 

Diet  Prescriptions  Made  Easy 6 

A  Timely  "Warning 9-10 

Uncooked  Food  vs.  Cooked  Food 11 

Cause  and  Cure  of  Beri-Beri 13-14-15 

Vitamines   13-14 

Cooking  Does  Not  Destroy  All  Organic  Molecules 15-16 

Advantages  of  Raw  Food  Diet 11-17 

Dangers  of  Extreme  Raw  Food  Diet 16 

Raw  Foods  and  Their  Medicinal  Properties 18 

Fruits  18-19 

Lemon  Juice  the  Most  Efficient  Antiseptic 19-20 

Fruit  Juices  the  Best  Medicine  for  Babies 20 

Sweet  Fruits   20-21 

Berries 21-22 

Nuts 22-23 

Vegetables 23-24 

Uncooked  Cereals    24 

Medicinal  Vegetables  25 

Carrots  and  Beets,  Good  Worm  Remedies 25 

Pumpkin  Seeds,  Good  Tape-Worm  Remedies 25 

Flaxseed  Tea  for  Colds 25 

Rutabaga  Syrup  for  Colds 26 

Kidney  Tonics  26 

Onion  and  Grated  Potato  Poultice  for  Inflammation 26-27 

Cottage  Cheese  and  Gruel  Poultices 27 

Horseradish  and  Pineapple  Good  Counter-irritants 27 

Natural  Laxatives    27 

Foods  and  Thirst  27-28 

Popular  Superstitions 28 

Strawberries  and  Cucumbers — Purifiers,  not  Poisons 28 

V 


Vi  NATURE   CURE   COOK   BOOK 

PAGES 

Grapefruit  Does  Not  Contain  Quinine 29 

Tomatoes  Do  Not  Make  Cancer 29 

No  Opium  in  Lettuce 29 

Simple  Vegetable  Salads  and  Dressings 30 

Vegetable  Salads    30 

Salad  Dressings 31-33 

Soups    (Introductory   Article) 33 

Meat  Soups 33 

Vegetable  Soups 34 

Recipes,  Soups  Made  With  Legumes 35-38 

Soups  Made  With  Milk 38-46 

Soups  Made  With  Vegetable  Stock 47-55 

Sweet  Soups  and  Fruit  Soups 55-60 

Uncooked  Soups   60-63 

Accessories  to  Soups 64-66 

Salads    (Introductory    Article) 67-68 

Recipes,   Salads    69-103 

Salad  Dressings 103-110 

Crotiuettes  (Introductory  Article) 111-113 

General  Directions  for  Making  Croquettes Ill 

Frying  or  Baking — Which  Is  Best 112 

Frying  in  Oil 112 

Skillet  or  Pan  Frying 112 

Baking 112 

Recipes,  Croquettes,  Eoasts 113-127 

Sauces  for  Croquettes,  Eoasts,  etc 127-133 

Vegetables  (Introductory  Article) 134-136 

Leafy  and  Juicy  Vegetables   134 

The  Preparation  and  Cooking  of  Vegetables 136 

Recipes,  Vegetables    136-211 

Asparagus 136-139 

Beans 139-142 

Beets    142-143 

Cabbage 143-148 

Carrots 149-152 

Cauliflower   152-155 

Celery 155-157 

Celery- Cabbage 156 


INDEX  Vll 

PAGES 

Eecipes,  Vegetables — Continued 

Corn 157-161 

Cucumbers 161-162 

Egg  Plant 163-166 

English  Vegetable  Marrow  166 

Kale  (Brussels  Sprouts,  Eose  Kale)   166-167 

Mushrooms   167-169 

Onions  169-173 

Parsnips 173-174 

Green  Peas 174-177 

Green  Peppers 177-179 

Potatoes 179-187 

Sweet  Potatoes 187-189 

Salsify  (Oyster  Plant)    189-191 

Spinach  191-194 

Squash  and  Pumpkin 195-196 

Tomatoes 197-205 

Turnips   205-207 

Mixed  Vegetables   207-211 

Eecipes,  Desserts  212-262 

Sauces  for  Puddings  and  Custard? 262-266 

Cereal  Foods   (Introductory  Article) 267-274 

White  Flour  and  Polished  Rice  267 

The   Structure  and   Chemical  Properties   of   a   Kernel   of 

Wheat 269 

Bohemian  Rye 272 

Rye  Meal 272 

Graham  Flour 272 

Whole  Wheat  Flour 272 

Gluten  Flour 273 

Protose 273 

Breakfast  Foods  274 

Recipes,  Cereals  274-275 

Breads   (Introductory  Article) 275-277 

Eecipes,  Breads   277-280 

Hot  Breads 280-283 

Leguminous  Foods  (Introductory  Article) 284-287 

Nuts 88fl 


vni  NATURE    CURE    COOK   BOOK 

PAGES 

Becipes,  Peas,  Beans,  Lentils 287-288 

Rice,  Macaroni,  Spaghetti    (Introductory  Article) 289 

How  to  Cook  Eice   289 

Recipes,  Rice,  Macaroni,  Spaghetti 289-298 

Dairy  Products  (Introductory  Article) 299-304 

Milk   300 

Buttermilk 301 

Sour  Milk  302 

Cream  and  Butter 302 

Baby  Feeding 302-303 

Cheese 304 

Recipes,   Cheese   Dishes 305-307 

Eggs    (Introductory   Article) 308-309 

Recipes,  Eggs    309-317 

Recipes,  Sandwiches   318-325 

Recipes,  Beverages    326-334 

Sample  Menus  (Containing  Raw  Foods  Only) 334 

Sample  Menus  (Containing  Cooked  and  Raw  Foods). . .  .334-336 


INDEX  TO  PART  II 
A  B  0  of  Natural  Dietetics 

CHAPTER  I.     Two  Sides  to  Every  Question 339 

Why  We  Favor  a  Vegetarian  Diet 339 

Meat    Contains    All    Waste    and    Morbid    By-Products    of 

Animal  Body   339-340 

Stimulating  and  Irritating  Effects  of  Meat  Poisons 340 

Effects  of  Fear  on  Animal  Food 341-342 

Arguments  of  the  Antis 342 

Proof  That  Meat  Eating  Is  Injurious  from  Everyday  Ex- 
perience in  Medical  Practice 342-344 

Abstinence  from  Meat  Followed  by  Loss  of  Craving,  and 

Dislike  345 


INDEX  IX 

PAGES 

Why  We  Sometimes  Deviate  from  a  Strictly  Vegetarian 

Diet    346 

What  Are  the  Indications  of  Meat  Eequirement? 347 

The  Characteristics  of  Negative  and  Positive,  and  Their 

Differing  Requirements 347-350 

Cases  Illustrating  Effects  of  Negative  Diet 350-353 

Why  Vegetarianism  Will  Triumph  in  the  Future 354 

CHAPTER  II.    Is   It  Worth  While  to   Pay  Attention 

to  Diet?   355 

Differing  Opinions    355 

Advice  of  Physicians  and  Metaphysical  Healers 355-356 

' '  Eat  What  Agrees  With  You. ' '— ' '  Does  It  Taste  Good  ?  "        356 
Is  Appetite  and  Craving  a  True  Guide  in  Food  Selection?        357 

What  Is  Natural  Food  ? 358-359 

Starving  America   360-363 

"Stuffing  Treatment"  Injurious   361-362 

Importance  of  Mineral  Elements  in  the  Vital  Economy. .  .  .360-363 

CHAPTER  ni.     For  What  Do  We  Eat  and  Drink? 364 

Is  Vital  Force  Derived  from  Food,  Medicines  and  Tonics?. 364-369 

The  Vital  and  Material  Conceptions  of  Vital  Force 365-367 

The  True  Functions  of  Food  and  Drink 368 

"Vital  Force"  Active  After  Death  in  Spiritual  Body 368 

CHAPTER  IV.     The  Functions  of  Food  and  Drink  in 

the  Economy  of  the  Body 370 

Group  I — Starches;  Group  II — Sugars  and  Dextrines 371-372 

The  Sources  of  Animal  Heat 372-375 

Dr.  Powell's  Theory  of  " Vito-Motive  Force" 375-379 

Our  Conception  of  Vital  Force 379 

Group  III — Fats  and  Oils 379-380 

Group  IV — Proteids 380-383 

Group  V — Positive  Mineral  Elements 384 

Polarity 385 

Bulk 385 

Dietetics  in  a  Nutshell 385a-385b 

CHAPTER  V.    Digestion  and  Assimilation 386 

The  Successive  Stages  of  Digestion  and  Assimilation 386-387 

Digestion  of  Starches 387-389 


X  NATURE    CURE    COOK   BOOK 

PAGES 

Digestion  of  Fats  389 

Digestion  of  Proteids 390-391 

Diagram — The   Processes  of  Digestion 392-393 

CHAPTER  VI.  The  Relationship  of  Electro-Magnetic- 
ally  Negative  Food  Elements  to  Disease  Produc- 
ing Acids,  Colloids,  Alkaloids  and  Ptomaines 394 

Diagrams    394-395 

CHAPTER  VII.  The  Tensing  and  Relaxing  Effects  of 
Foods  Upon  the  Digestive  Organs  and  the  System 

as  a  Whole 397-402 

Group  IV— Proteids 398-399 

Groups  I  and  II — Carbohydrates 399 

Group  III — Hydro-carbons  400 

Group  V— Organic  Salts  400-401 

Nature's  Wise  Provision  for  the  Varying  Seasons 401 

CHAPTER  Vni.     Standard  Foods 403-407 

Milk  and  Arterial  Blood  the  Only  Standard  Food  Combi- 
nations in  Nature  403 

Mineral  Elements  Ignored  by  Medical  Authorities    405 

Milk    Normal    Food    Combination    for    Growing   Animal — 

Arterial  Blood  for  Full  Grown  Animal 406-407 

Cow's  Milk  More  Normal  Than  Human  Milk 407 

CHAPTER  IX.    The  Magnetic  Properties  of  Foods 408-413 

What  Is  Electricity  and  Magnetism? 408-409 

What  Is  Matter? .' 408 

What  Is  Chemical  Affinity? 409-410 

The  Law  of  Polarity — The  Fundamental  Law  of  Nature.  .  .        410 

Positivity  and  Negativity  of  Foods  and  Medicines 411-413 

Quotations  from  "The  Great  Psychological  Crime" 411-413 

Effects  of  Fasting,  Solitude,  Introspection,  etc 412-413 

CHAPTER  X.    Polarity  of  Foods  and  Medicines 414-428 

The  Proteid  Question  414-419 

The  Transformation  of  Sunlight  Into  Chemical  Energy. .  .417-419 

Polarity  and  the  Life  Elements 419-422 

What  Is  a  Calorie? 422 


INDEX  XI 

PAGES 
The  Four  Life  Elements  as  They  Manifest  in  the  Ascending 

Kingdoms  of  Nature  420 

Animal  Magnetism 422 

The  Second  Factor  of  Positive  Polarity — The  Positive  Alka- 
line Mineral  Elements  423-428 

Iron    423 

Sodium    424-425 

Calcium  (Lime)   426 

Magnesium    426 

The  Relationship  of  Positive  Alkaline  Salts  to  Negative 

Food  Materials    * 427 

Potassium    428 

CHAPTER   XI.     Classification   of   Foods   According   to 

Their  Electro-Magnetic  Qualities 429-440 

Class  I. 

Animal  Foods — Positive    429-432 

Eggs 429 

Analytical  Food  Tables 430-431 

Flesh  Foods  432 

Class  II. 

Leafy,  Juicy  Vegetables — Positive 433 

Roots  and  Tubers 434 

aass  III. 

Berries — Positive 435 

aass  IV. 

Juicy  Fruits — Positive 435 

Class  V. 

Sweet  Alkaline  Fruits — Medium  Positive 436 

aass  VI. 

Nuts — Negative  436 

aass  VII. 

Legumes — Very  Negative    437 

aass  VIII. 

Grains — Very  Negative   438 

Polished  Flour  and  Rice 438 

Negative  Vegetarian  Diet 438-439 

Rice  Diet  of  Oriental  Races  Not  a  Well  Balanced 'Diet 439 

What  Constitutes  a  Well  Balanced  Vegetarian  Diet? 440 


Xll  NATUKK    CURE    COOK    BOOK 

PAGES 

CHAFTEB  XII.     The  Psychology  of  Digestion. 

Normal  and  Abnormal  Cravings   441-442 

Idiosyncrasies 443 

Mental  Dyspepsia   444-445 

CHAPTEE  Xm.     Miscellaneous  Articles. 

Over-Eating    446-447 

Fasting  Imperative  in  Acute  Diseases 447-448 

Cornaro    448 

To  Salt  or  Not  to  Salt? 449-455 

American  Dietary  Deficient  in  Organic  Salts 450 

Table  Salt  Does  Not  Show  in  Iris 450-451 

Products  of  the  Soil  Often  Deficient  in  Mineral  Elements.  .452-453 

Necessity  of  Mineral  Fertilizers 452-453 

Kegion  of  Salt  Famine 453 

Fermented  Bread    455-459 

Mono-Diet    459-4G0 

Mastication     462-463 

Fletcherizing     462-463 

Frequency  of  Meals   463 

Drinking     464 

Distilled  Water    464 

Drinking  at  Meals    465-466 

Mixing  Starches  with  Acid  Fruits  and  Vegetables 466-467 

Additional  information  on  the  subjects  treated  in  this  volume 
win  be  found  in  "Nature  Cure,  Philosophy  and  Practice,"  by 
H.  Lindlahr,  M.  D.  (price,  $2.15,  postpaid) :  Chapter  Vni,  The 
Treatment  of  Acute  Diseases  by  Natural  Methods;  Chapter  XV, 
Natural  Dietetics;  Chapter  XVT,  Acid  Diseases:  the  Relation- 
ship Between  Foods  and  Acid  Diseases;  Chapter  XVII,  Fasting. 


PART  I 

NATURE  CURE  COOK  BOOK 


NATURE  CURE  COOK  BOOK 


KEY  TO  OUR  SYSTEM  OF  RECIPE  MARKING 

Another  cook  book?  Yes,  but  a  cook  book  different 
from  all  others.  It  not  only  provides  a  number  of 
wholesome  and  palatable  recipes,  but  it  may  be  used 
as  a  guide  by  phj^sicians  and  patients,  by  students  of 
the  science  of  dietetics,  by  all  those  who  wish  to  apply 
intelligent  instead  of  haphazard  methods  in  the  selec- 
tion, combination  and  preparation  of  their  food. 

This  cook  book  is  based  on  the  system  of  dietetics 
originated  by  the  German  School  of  Nature  Cure. 
Drs.  Lahmann,  Hensel  and  others  found  a  solution 
of  the  problem  of  scientific  food  selection  and  com- 
bination which  stands  every  test  of  theoretical  inquiry 
and  of  practical  application. 

Many  vegetarian  cook  books  are  now  on  the  market, 
but  it  seems  that  none  of  them  fully  satisfy  the  de- 
mands of  the  public,  and  there  are  good  reasons  for 
this.  Some  of  these  books  contain  hardly  anything 
but  recipes  composed  of  starches,  fats,  sugars  and  pro- 
teins. Recipes  for  the  preparation  of  fruits  and  vege- 
tables, which  represent  the  mineral  group  in  our  sys- 
tem of  dietetics,  are  conspicuous  only  by  their  absence. 
Others  contain  only  raw  food  dishes.  Still  others  give 
misleading  advice  and  make  erroneous  statements.  One 
of  the  best  vegetarian  cook  books,  for  instance,  advises 
that  all  leafy  vegetables  "be  thoroughly  cooked  and 
pressed   out"  in  order  to  remove  the  harsh  flavors. 

1 


2  NATURE   CURE   COOK   BOOK 

Such  treatment,  of  course,  leeches  the  organic  salts 
and  thus  removes  the  most  valuable  elements  of  nutri- 
tion in  the  vegetable. 

No  matter,  however,  how  good  and  true  the  theo- 
retical directions,  nor  how  carefully  prepared  the 
recipes,  most  persons  find  it  difficult  to  apply  the  prin- 
ciples of  natural  dietetics  in  the  kitchen.  While  they 
may  fully  understand  the  theory  of  food  selection  and 
combination,  they  do  not  know  the  chemical  composi- 
tion of  the  different  food  materials,  and  therefore  find 
it  impossible  to  select  and  combine  to  the  best  advan- 
tage. 

The  same  is  true  of  physicians,  and  students  of 
dietetics.  Though  they  may  understand  thoroughly  how 
starches,  fats,  proteins  and  organic  salts  should  be 
combined,  in  order  to  meet  the  requirements  of  the 
body  for  the  various  elements  of  nutrition,  they  often 
have  not  sufficient  knowledge  of  food  analysis  to  pre- 
scribe or  carry  out  a  system  of  rational  food  combina- 
tion, such  as  taught,  for  instance,  in  "Natural  Diet- 
etics." They  would  be  at  a  loss  to  know  in  what  pro 
portions  starches,  proteins,  organic  salts,  etc.,  are 
contained  in  wheat,  beans,  nuts,  bananas,  apples,  or 
other  food  material,  unless  they  had  made  a  special 
study  of  food  chemistry. 

Furthermore,  the  physician  who  possesses  this  knowl- 
edge cannot  impart  it  to  the  nurse  or  cook  who  has  to 
provide  the  food  for  the  patient. 

This  difficulty  is  increased  in  cases  of  sickness  and 
invalidism,  when  special  care  in  the  proper  selection 
and  combination  of  food  becomes  a  necessity,  and  Avhen 
errors  in  diet  are  far-reaching  in  their  harmful  conse- 
quences. 

In  order  to  overcome  these  difficulties  and  perplex- 


KEY   TO   RECIPE    MARKING  3 

ities  of  the  physician,  the  nurse,  the  cook  and  the 
patient,  in  an  easy  and  thoroughly  practical  way,  we 
have  hit  upon  the  following  plan: 

We  have  divided  all  food  materials  into  the  follow- 
ing five  groups:  (See  diagrams  on  pages  385a,  385b.) 

Group     I  (St.)    Starches. 

Group    II     (S.)    Sugars,  Dextrines. 

Group  III     (F.)    Fats,  Oils. 

Group  IV  (P.)  Proteids:  Albumin,  Gluten,  Myo- 
sin, Hemoglobin,  etc. 

Group  V  (M.)  Positive  Mineral  Elements:  Potas- 
sium, Sodium,  Iron,  Lime,  Magnesium,  Manganese, 
Lithium,   etc. 

Every  recipe  in  this  cook  book,  underneath  its  title, 
will  be  marked  in  such  a  way  as  to  show  the  various 
food  elements  which  it  contains,  in  the  order  of  their 
amounts  and  importance.  In  order  to  make  easier 
reading  and  to  avoid  confusion,  we  shall  use  in  these 
markings  the  initial  letters  of  the  food  elements,  in- 
stead of  the  numbers  of  the  groups,  viz. : 

St. — for  starches  (Gr.  I). 

S. — for  sugar  (Gr.  II). 

F.— for  fats  (Gr.  III). 

P.— for  proteids  (Gr.  IV). 

M. — for  positive  mineral  elements  (Gr.  V). 

For  instance,  if  starches  outweigh  the  other  food 
elements  in  a  recipe,  St.  will  be  placed  first  and  the 
other  elements  after,  in  the  order  of  their  importance 
in  the  recipe.  If  the  organic,  mineral  salts  constitute 
the  predominating  food  elements  Group  M.  will  have 
first  place.  The  food  elements  which  are  present  in  a 
recipe  in  considerable  quantities  will  appear  in  black 


4  NATURE   CURE   COOK   BOOK 

face  type.  Those  which  are  present  in  negligible  quan- 
tities will  appear  at  the  end  of  the  line,  separated  by 
a  dash  ( — ),  in  pale,  ordinary  type.  For  instance, 
St.  S.  P.— F.  M. 

In  the  following  we  give  a  few  practical  illustra- 
tions : 

Combination  Salad 

Groups  M.  F. 

Ingredients:  Lettuce,  cucumbers,  tomatoes,  Spanish 
onions,  lemon  juice,  olive  oil. 

Wash  lettuce,  reuioving  defective  leaves.  Slice 
cucumbers,  tomatoes  and  Spanish  onions  rather  thin, 
arrange  on  the  lettuce;  serve  with  a  dressing  made  of 
two  parts  olive  oil  to  one  part  lemon  juice. 

Lettuce,  cucumbers,  tomatoes  and  onions  contain 
large  quantities  of  the  five  positive  mineral  elements. 
Mineral  elements  are  also  predominant  in  the  lemon 
juice  of  the  dressing.  The  olive  oil,  on  the  other  hand, 
contains  nothing  but  different  kinds  of  fats.  Accord- 
ingly this  recipe  is  marked  Groups  M.  F.  (Group  M., 
mineral  elements;  Group  F.,  fats  and  oils).  Both 
groups  are  present  in  considerable  quantities,  there- 
fore both  appear  in  black  face  type. 

Our  Health  Bread 

Groups  St.  P.— M.  F.  S. 

This  bread  contains  about  forty  per  cent  starches, 
ten  per  cent  protein  (gluten),  five  per  cent  cereal  fats 
and  vegetable  oil,  three  per  cent  sugar,  which  has 
formed  in  the  fermentation  of  the  dough,  and  ten  parts 
per  thousand  of  positive  mineral  salts.  Starch  and  pro- 
tein, occurring  in  the  largest  amounts,  are  placed  first 
in  the  marking  and  appear  in  black  face  type.    Fats, 


KEY   TO   RECIPE   MARKING  6 

sugar  and  mineral  elements  being  present  in  small 
amounts  only,  appear  in  the  order  named  after  the 
dash,  in  ordinary  type. 

Milk 
Groups  M.  S.  F.  P. 

In  explanation  of  this  formula  we  will  give  the  con- 
tents of  milk  in  round  figures  (see  diagrams  on  pages 
430,  431 ) .  There  is  no  starch  in  the  milk.  The  starches 
of  the  ingested  food  materials  through  the  processes  of 
digestion  have  been  changed  into  dextrine  and  sugar. 

Group  II.  Carbohydrates:  (Sugars)  milk-sugar,  6 
per  cent. 

Group  III.  Hydrocarbons :  Fats,  4  per  cent. 

Group  IV.  Proteins:   Casein,  31/^  per  cent. 

Group  V.  Positive  Mineral  Elements:  Potassium, 
Iron,  Sodiiun,  Lime,  Magnesium,  altogether  23  parts 
per  thousand.  The  Mineral  Group  is  placed  first  in  the 
marking  because  milk  is  a  positive  food,  that  is,  the 
milk  is  rich  in  the  positive  mineral  elements  in  com- 
parison to  the  negative  food  elements  of  the  first  four 
groups. 

In  studying  these  percentages  one  must  not  become 
confused  by  the  fact  that  the  mineral  elements  are 
present  only  in  minute  quantities,  in  parts  per  thou- 
sand, while  the  other  food  elements  occur  in  much 
larger  quantities  in  parts  per  hundred.  The  positive 
mineral  elements,  though  occurring  in  foods  and  in 
animal  and  human  bodies  in  small  quantities  only,  are 
nevertheless  of  immense  importance  in  the  vital 
economy  of  the  body.  They  are  therefore  given  first 
rank  in  the  markings  of  the  recipes  whenever  they 
occur  in  similar  or  in  higher  proportions  to  those  in 


6  NATURE    CURE    COOK    BOOK 

milk.  Milk  aside  from  red  (arterial)  blood  of  animals 
is  the  only  normal  or  standard  food  combination,  and 
therefore  our  yardstick  in  measuring  and  estimating 
the  chemical  composition  of  other  food  combinations. 

What  Constitutes  a  Natural  Diet? 

Doctors  and  laymen  who  are  not  acquainted  with 
the  principles  of  natural  dietetics  ridicule  the  idea  that 
it  is  possible  to  prescribe  a  diet  "which  will  fit  every- 
body," A  careful  study,  however,  of  the  explanatory 
articles  in  this  volume  will  show  that  there  must  be 
a  combination  of  food  elements  which  in  certain  well- 
defined  proportions  will  fit  the  demands  of  the  normal, 
human  body.  This  combination  must  conform  in  its 
component  elements  to  the  chemical  composition  of 
milk  or  red  (arterial)  blood.  In  other  words,  any  meal 
or  diet,  temporary  or  continuous,  in  order  to  be  "nor- 
mal" or  "natural,"  must  conform  in  its  chemical  com- 
position to  that  of  milk  or  arterial  blood.  If  we 
express  this  food  combination  in  percentages  of  our 
food  groups  the  formula  would  read  as  follows: 

A  natural  diet,  which  is  to  fill  the  demands  of  the 
human  organism,  must  consist  one-half  of  the  food 
materials  of  Group  V  (Mineral  Elements)  and  one- 
half  of  the  food  elements  of  Groups  I,  II,  III,  TV 
(Starches,  Sugars,  Fats  and  Proteins). 

Any  meal  or  diet  composed  in  the  foregoing  propor- 
tions conforms  to  what  we  designate  as  normal  or 
natural  in  food  combinations. 

Diet  Prescriptions  Made  Easy  for  the  Doctor 

It  will  be  seen  that,  no  matter  to  what  school  of 
medicine  a  physician  belongs  or  what  may  be  his  ideas 


KEY   TO  RECIPE  MARKING  7 

on  the  diet  to  be  used  in  different  diseases,  the  system 
embodied  in  this  cook  book  will  enable  him  to  give 
his  diet  prescription  in  a  few  words,  with  absolute  pre- 
cision, covering  every  possibility  of  food  selection  and 
combination. 

Foi-merly,  in  a  case  of — say — Bright 's  disease,  the 
doctor  could  give  only  very  general  directions.  He 
would,  perhaps,  say  to  the  patient:  "Exclude  from 
your  diet  all  foods  that  are  rich  in  protein,  such  as 
meat,  eggs,  gluten,  etc." 

But  the  patient  or  the  nurse  might  not  always  know 
what  foods  are  rich  in  protein,  or  whether  a  particular 
recipe  contained  protein  in  objectionable  quantities. 
Furthermore,  they  might  not  know  what  to  substitute 
for  the  foods  containing  protein  so  as  to  provide  the 
patient  with  a  variety  of  nourishing  and  appetizing 
dishes. 

Under  the  plan  proposed  in  this  book,  the  physician, 
if  he  prefer  a  low  protein  diet,  rich  in  organic  mineral 
salts,  will  write  his  diet  prescriptions  as  follows : 

!l^.  Groups:  M. — one-half. 

St.  and  S. — one-fourth. 
F. — one-fourth. 

If,  on  the  other  hand,  the  physician  should,  in  a  case 
of  diabetes,  wish  to  reduce  the  carbohydrate  foods  and 
increase  those  rich  in  protein,  his  prescriptions  would 
read  as  follows: 

^.  Groups:  P. — one-half. 

F. — one-fourth. 
M. — one-fourth. 
Avoid  St.  and  S. 

As  before  stated,  it  is  not  possible  to  carry  out  these 


8  NATURE  CURE  COOK  BOOK 

directions  to  the  letter,  that  is,  to  exclude  any  of  the 
five  groups  entirely.  While  most  food  materials  pre- 
dominate in  the  elements  of  one  or  two  groups,  they 
generally  contain  small  amounts  of  the  elements  of  the 
other  groups  in  various  combinations.  The  latter 
appear  in  the  markings  in  pale  face  type. 

For  instance,  the  substance  of  wheat  consists  almost 
entirely  of  starches  and  proteins,  but  it  also  contains 
fats  and  organic  mineral  salts  in  comparatively  small 
quantities  (starches,  65  per  cent;  proteids,  10  per  cent; 
fats,  2  per  cent;  organic  salts,  8  to  10  parts  per  thou- 
sand). 

The  patient,  or  whoever  is  to  carry  out  the  doctor's 
directions  in  the  kitchen,  will  always  find  it  an  easy 
matter  to  do  this  intelligently  and  consistently  with 
the  help  of  this  cook  book.  All  that  needs  to  be  done 
is  to  compare  the  diet  prescription  with  the  group 
markings  of  the  different  recipes  and  to  select  those 
that  conform  most  closely  to  the  doctor's  prescription. 

It  will  be  seen  that  this  system  of  marking  all  recipes 
(of  which  there  are  over  900  in  this  cook  book)  allows 
the  widest  possible  range  of  choice  in  the  selection, 
combination  and  mode  of  preparation  of  foods.  If 
there  be  restrictions  in  the  use  of  certain  food  elements 
in  certain  diseases  as,  for  instance,  the  exclusion  of 
starchy  food  in  intestinal  indigestion,  the  group  mark- 
ings will  indicate  plainly  and  at  a  glance  all  those 
recipes  which  should  be  excluded  and  those  which 
may  safely  be  used. 

We  have  purposely  allowed  considerable  latitude 
in  the  use  of  the  dairy  products,  eggs,  spices  and  con- 
diments in  the  different  recipes  for  the  sake  of  those 
who  may  be  in  the  stages  of  transition  from  a  meat 
diet  to  the  natural  regime,  and  also  for  the  sake  of 


KEY   TO   RECIPE   MARKING  9 

those  who  do  not  care  to  apply  the  principles  of  vege- 
tarianism to  the  fullest  extent.  Those  who  desire  to 
carry  out  the  vegetarian  or  raw  food  idea  more  strictly 
and  consistently  may  modify  or  exclude  the  use  of 
dairy  products,  spices  and  condiments  in  the  recipes 
to   suit  themselves. 

A  Timely  Warning 

This  may  be  the  place  for  a  timely  warning.  Do  not 
become  finical  or  hypochondriacal  over  this  matter  of 
food  selection  and  combination.  The  man  who  eats 
with  a  scale  by  his  side,  weighing  every  bite  of  food 
he  takes,  is  to  be  pitied.  His  over-anxiety  prevents  the 
natural  enjoyment  of  food,  and  tends  to  produce  men- 
tal and  nervous  dyspepsia. 

It  is  not  possible  to  conform  exactly,  by  weight  and 
measure,  to  the  prescriptions  and  group  markings 
given  in  this  book,  nor  is  it  necessary  in  order  to  secure 
good  results.  What  we  are  trying  to  supply  (and 
what  has  been  lacking  heretofore)  is  a  rational  system 
of  food  classification  which  can  be  understood  and 
applied  by  anybody  possessed  of  ordinary  intelligence 
in  order  to  procure  for  himself  or  for  those  entrusted 
to  his  care  the  diet  that  is  most  suitable  for  the  indi- 
vidual conditions  and  requirements. 

If  those  who  follow  the  general  directions  for  food 
selection  and  combination  given  in  this  book  will  keep 
fairly  close  to  the  proportions  indicated  in  the  group 
markings  of  the  recipes,  they  will  always  be  within 
safe  limits  and  need  not  worry  about  the  fitness  of 
their  diet. 

In  cases  of  serious  illness  and  digestive  troubles,  it 
is  always  best  to  consult  a  competent  physician  about 
the  dietetic  and  other  treatment.     It  must  also  be  re* 


10  NATURE   CURE   COOK  BOOK 

membered  thai  even  the  most  v/holesome  foods,  in  the 
best  possible  combination,  cannot  be  properly  digested 
and  assimilated  if  the  digestive  organs  are  in  a  slug- 
gish, atrophic  condition.  In  such  cases  these  organs 
must  be  made  more  alive  and  active  through  natural 
methods  of  treatment. 


UNCOOKED  FOOD  VS.  COOKED  FOOD 

Though  this  is  a  "cook  book,"  we  find  it  necessary 
to  begin  its  pages  with  a  recommendation  of  uncooked 
food.  Much  can  and  should  be  said  in  favor  of  raw 
or  unfired  food,  versus  cooked  food.  Less  boiling, 
roasting  and  fermenting  and  more  of  raw  food  would 
undoubtedly  do  away  with  a  great  deal  of  weakness 
and  disease. 

Nature  did  not  create  man  with  a  cookstove  by  his 
side.  Man  existed  on  this  planet  for  ages  before  he 
knew  how  to  start  a  fire,  and  in  those  days  of  unfired 
food  he  was,  undoubtedly,  like  all  the  rest  of  God's 
creatures  who  live  in  the  freedom  of  Nature,  healthier 
and  stronger  physically  than  the  present-day  diseased 
and  degenerate  product  of  artificial  living  and  hyper- 
civilization. 

This  does  not  mean  that  we  advocate  a  return  to 
savagery  and  barbarism.  But  we  do  claim  that  we 
can  combine  with  the  highest  attainments  of  modern 
civilization,  the  simple  and  rational  ways  of  living 
and  of  treating  human  ailments  which  will  insure 
health  of  body  and  mind,  the  highest  efficiency,  and  the 
greatest  possible  capacity  for  the  enjoyment  of  life. 

The  constant  use  of  cooked,  highly  spiced  and 
fermented  food  takes  away  the  relish  of  natural  un- 
cooked food.  It  deprives  man  of  the  natural  instinct 
and  intuition  for  the  right  selection  and  combination 
of  foods.  The  majority  of  people  reared  in  this  coun- 
try from  infancy  up,  on  the  most  unwholesome  and 

11 


12  NATURE   CURE   COOK  BOOK 

haphazard  food  combinations,  have  lost  the  capacity 
for  sensing  and  enjoying  the  delicate  flavors  of  fruits, 
nuts  and  vegetables.  Mankind  for  ages  has  lived 
almost  entirely  on  cooked  and  highly  seasoned  foods 
and  stimulants.  This  has  atrophied  the  taste  buds 
in  the  tongue  and  palate.  Their  natural  sensitiveness 
for  the  finest  flavors  of  fruits,  nuts,  vegetables  and 
other  uncooked  foods  can  be  restored  only  by  using 
the  latter  much  more  liberally  in  the  daily  dietary. 

Foods  taken  in  the  natural  uncooked  state  have  a 
wonderfully  vitalizing  and  stimulating  effect  upon 
the  weakened  and  partially  atrophied  digestive  organs. 
Many  of  our  extreme  cases  of  chronic  indigestion  do 
best  on  a  raw  food  diet.  The  followers  of  Nature 
Cure  have  always  emphasized  the  superiority  of  raw 
food  over  cooked  food.  Now  comes  advanced  science, 
as  in  so  many  other  instances,  and  brings  the  scien- 
tific proofs  for  that  which  the  Nature  Cure  people  have 
taught  and  practiced  for  many  years. 

Prominent  chemists  have  discovered  that  foods  con- 
tain in  various  chemical  forms,  and  in  exceedingly 
small  proportions,  certain  substances  which  they  have 
called  "vitamines."  The  word  translated  into  English 
means  "living  substance."  It  is  assumed  that  these 
vitamines  are  molecules  highly  charged  with"  vital 
energy,  the  essential  element  in  nutrition.  (See  Part  II, 
Chapters  III  and  IV.) 

It  will  be  seen  that  these  "new  discoveries"  are 
nothing  else  but  the  re-statement  of  what  we  have 
taught  these  many  years,  namely,  that  foods  possess 
nourishing  value,  only  by  virtue  of  the  life  elements 
and  the  sun  energy  locked  up  in  their  molecules.  In 
this  connection  the  following  article  from  the  Brit- 
tanica  Year  Book  for  1913  will  be  of  great  interest. 


UNCOOKED    FOOD    VS.    (;OOKED   FOOD  13 

Cause  and  Cure  of  Beri-Beri 

"Few  events  in  patliology,  during  late  years,"  says 
Dr.  Paget,  ''have  been  more  notable,  or  more  happy, 
than  the  discovery  of  the  cause  of  this  endemic  dis- 
ease. Beri-beri,  a  form  of  peripheral  neuritis,  with 
loss  of  nmseular  power,  emaciation,  and  exhaustion, 
has  been  one  of  the  scourges  of  the  tropics.  In  the 
Federated  Malay  States  the  estimate  has  been  made 
of  45,000  deaths  from  beri-beri  in  the  course  of  30 
years.  In  the  Philippines  it  has  been  a  long-standing 
evil.  During  the  Russo-Japanese  "War,  it  accounted 
for  a  very  large  part  of  the  sickness  among  the  Japa- 
nese. 

•  "In  1909  Fraser  and  Stanton  published  their 
Etiology  of  Beri-beri.  Working  en  the  lines  sug- 
gested by  C.  Hose  and  Braddon,  they  traced  the  causfe 
of  the  disease  to  the  use  of  'milled'  rice,  i.  e.,  rice 
which  has  been  'polished'  by  the  removal  of  its  husk 
and  outer  layers.  Fowls  or  pigeons  fed  on  polished 
rice  alone  quickly  showed  signs  of  the  disease;  but 
if  the  polishings  of  rice  were  added  to  their  food  they 
quickly  recovered.  Further  observations,  by  De  Haan, 
Chamberlain,  Eijkmann,  and  others,  showed  that  the 
disease  was  not  due  simply  to  the  absence  of  phos- 
phates from  the  rice.  It  was  due  to  the  loss  of  a  sub- 
stance which  is  present  as  a  mere  trace  in  the  husks; 
indeed,  there  are  no  more  than  ten  grains  of  it  in  a 
ton  of  rice.  Funk,  working  at  the  Lister  Institute, 
has  lately  isolated  this  substance,  and  has  given  it 
the  name  of  'vitamine.'  We  are  told  that  a  pigeon 
fed  on  polished  rice  alone  will,  in  three  or  four  weeks, 
show  signs  of  the  disease.     If,  when  death  seems  immi- 


14  NATURE    CURE    COOK   BOOK 

neiit,  a  minute  dose  of  vitamine  be  given,  the  bird 
quickly  recovers. 

"The  wonder  does  not  end  here.  For  this  work 
on  beri-beri  throws  light  on  epidemic  dropsy,  scurvy, 
rickets,  etc.  Indeed,  Funk  has  isolated  from  limes 
a  substance  similar  to  vitamine,  and  present  in  about 
one  in  100,000  parts  of  the  fruit.  This  'vitamine  of 
the  lime'  has  a  favorable  action  alike  on  beri-beri  and 
on  scurvy." 

Dr.  Paget  asserts  that  the  practical  value  of  these 
studies  is  already  evident.  In  the  Philippines,  since 
the  American  occupation,  the  change  of  food  from  pol- 
ished to  unpolished  rice  has  practically  stamped  out 
the  disease  beri-beri.  Similar  results  are  reported  by 
Dr.  Heiser  in  regard  to  a  leper  colony  at  Culion. 
' '  The  disease  had  been  so  common  in  this  colony,  since 
its  founding  in  1906,  that  it  caused  one-third  of  the 
deaths.  But  after  the  use  of  unpolished  rice  was  made 
compulsory  no  deaths  occurred  from  the  disease,  and 
persons  already  affected  were  quickly  cured  by  the 
addition  of  rice-polishings  to  their  food." 

The  discoverers  of  "vitamines"  have  found  that  boil- 
ing destroys  a  great  many  of  these  highly  organ- 
ized substances,  and  that  temperatures  higher  than  the 
boiling  point  kill  most  of  them.  It  has  been  proved 
that  animals  will  die  of  starvation  when  fed  exclu- 
sively on  foods  in  which  the  vitamines  have  been 
destroyed,  through  exposure  to  very  high  tempera- 
tures, and  through  chemical  action.  It  is  claimed 
that  scurvy,  rickets  and  beri-beri  are  among  diseases 
attributable  to  lack  of  vitamines  in  food. 

Vitamines,  the  carriers  of  the  life  elements,  are 
located  largely  in  the  outermost  dark  coverings  of  the 
rice  kernel.     In  the  various  grains,  also,  the  vitamines 


UNCOOKED  FOOD  VS.  COOKED  FOOD  15 

are  present  in  much  greater  proportion  in  the  outer 
dark  layers  and  in  the  hull  than  in  the  interior  sub- 
stance. 

These  discoveries  of  chemical  and  medical  science 
seem  to  indicate  that  the  positive  **  organic  mineral 
salts,"  located  in  the  outer  parts  and  hulls  of  rice  and 
grains,  are  the  carriers  of  *'vitamines."  Thus,  step 
by  step,  now  here,  now  there,  orthodox  science  confirms 
the  teachings  of  Nature  Cure,  which  the  leaders  of 
this  movement  discovered  by  common  sense  reasoning 
and  practical  experience. 

All  the  dairy  products,  including  eggs  and  honey, 
are  very  rich  in  vitamines,  or,  as  we  express  it,  in 
the  vito-chemical  life  elements  and  in  animal  mag- 
netism. They  are  to  be  preferred  to  the  flesh  foods, 
because  they  can  be  relished  raw,  while  the  boiling 
and  roasting  of  the  meat  destroys  and  dissipates  a 
large  portion  of  its  vitamines.  This  is  especially 
true  of  meat  soups. 

While  the  statements  in  the  previous  paragraphs 
are  powerful  arguments  in  favor  of  raw  food,  on  the 
other  hand,  the  claims  of  the  raw  food  enthusiasts, 
that  all  the  life  elements  in  the  food  are  dissipated  and 
destroyed  through  cooking  and  that  all  the  organic 
mineral  elements  become  inorganic  through  cooking, 
are  untrue.  Cooking  is  only  a  mechanical  process  of 
sub-division,  not  a  chemical  process  of  transformation. 
The  "organic"  life  molecules  of  vegetable  and  animal 
matter  cannot  be  broken  down  entirely  by  mechanical 
processes ;  this  requires  chemical  action.  For  instance, 
no  matter  how  long  we  boil  sugar,  in  a  watery  solution, 
the  sugar  will  still  be  sugar.  Contact  with  yeast  fer- 
ment, however,  will  change  the  sugar  into  alcohol  and 
carbonic  acid.      The  boiling  is   a  purely  mechanical 


16  NATURE   CURE   COOK   BOOK 

process,  while  the  fermentation  involves  a  chemical 
transformation  of  the  fermenting  substance. 

If  the  claims  of  the  raw  food  people  were  true, 
humanity  M'ould  long  ago  have  become  extinct  as  a 
result  of  living  on  cooked  food. 

We  cannot,  therefore,  agree  with  the  extremists  who 
exclude  from  their  diet  all  cooked  foods,  and  some- 
times even  the  dairy  products.  A  mixed  cooked  and 
raw  food  diet,  with  liberal  allowances  of  the  dairy 
products,  seems  to  agree  best  with  the  majority  of 
our  friends. 

An  extreme  raw  food  diet  has  a  tendency  to  create 
hyper-sentitive  conditions  physically,  mentally  and 
psychically.  It  also  limits  considerably  food  selec- 
tion and  combination,  thereby  tending  to  monotony. 
This  is  especially  true  in  places  where  a  variety  of 
palatable  raw  foods  cannot  be  obtained  all  the  year 
around. 

There  is,  however,  another  drawback  to  too  much 
cooked  food  in  the  dietary.  A  study  of  the  chemical 
composition  of  the  cooked  dishes  in  this  book  will  shoAV 
that  many  of  them  though  prepared  from  the  fruits 
and  vegetables  belonging  to  the  mineral  group  (V), 
are  combined  with  food  materials  of  the  other  groups 
in  such  a  way  that  the  latter  predominate  over  the 
former.  This  would  make  it  a  difficult  matter  to 
comply  with  the  teachings  of  natural  dietetics,  when 
living  on  cooked  foods  alone.  The  starches,  sugars, 
fats  and  proteins  would  predominate  over  the  foods 
of  the  mineral  group. 

The  only  way,  therefore,  to  comply  with  our  general 
formula  for  a  natural  diet,  consisting  one-half  of  the 
organic  mineral  group  (V),  and  one-half  of  the  other 
four  groups  combined,  is  to  have  in  any  one  meal  only 


UNCOOKED  FOOD   VS.    COOKED   POOD  17 

from  one  to  three  cooked  dishes,  and  in  combination 
with  these  a  liberal  amount  of  raw  relishes,  salads  and 
other  uncooked  foods,  belonging  to  group  five. 

We  recommend,  and  serve  in  our  Sanitarium 
regimen,  one  meal  daily  consisting  of  raw  foods  only. 

All  the  juicy  fruits  and  vegetables  that  can  be  rel- 
ished and  digested  in  the  natural  state  are  not  only 
excellent  foods,  but  the  best  medicines  for  the  human 
body. 

In  the  following  chapter  we  shall  call  attention  to 
and  describe  the  medicinal  properties  of  the  foods  best 
suited  for  eating  in  the  natural  state,  without  cooking, 
spicing,  or  fermenting. 


RAW  FOODS  AND  THEIR  MEDICINAL 
PROPERTIES 

Fruits 

The  most  delicious  and  wholesome  raw  foods  are  the 
juicy  fruits.  While  they  run  low  in  starches,  fats 
and  proteids,  they  contain  large  amounts  of  the  posi- 
tive organic  mineral  salts  (vitamines). 

They  are,  therefore.  Nature's  own  medicines, — splen- 
did tonics,  natural  stimulants,  cholagogues,  purifiers, 
antiseptics,  anthelmintics  and  febrifuges.  The  only 
medicines  we  ever  prescribe  in  inflammatory,  febrile 
diseases,  aside  from  homeopathic  remedies,  are  acid 
fruit  juices,  diluted  in  water. 

The  finest  medicinal  fruits  are  the  acid  and  sub- 
acid varieties,  such  as  lemons,  oranges,  limes,  grape- 
fruit, pineapples,  tangerines,  apricots,  apples,  green 
gages,  plums,  and  certain  sub-acid  varieties  of  cherries, 
pears,  peaches,  nectarines,  etc.  While  these  fruits 
contain  highly  organized  acids,  such  as  malic,  oxalic 
and  citric  acid,  they  are  very  rich  in  the  positive,  alka- 
line mineral  elements,  and  have,  therefore,  an  acid- 
binding  and  acid-eliminating  effect  upon  the  system. 

The  prevalent  idea,  encouraged  by  many  physicians, 
that  acid  fruits  and  vegetables  cause  rheumatism  and 
other  acid  diseases,  is  entirely  without  foundation. 
This  mistaken  idea  has  arisen  from  the  fact  that  all 
juicy  fruits  and  vegetables  are  rich  in  alkaline  or- 
ganic salts,  which  dissolve  the  acid  deposits  in  the 
tissues  and  throw  them  into  the  circulation.       This 

18 


MEDICINAL   PROPERTIES   OP   RAW   POODS  19 

temporarily  overloads  the  blood  stream  with  acids  in 
solution,  irritating  the  tender  membranes  of  joints, 
muscles,  brain  and  nerve  tissues,  and  thus  creating 
the  various  symptoms  of  collaemia  or  acute  uric-acid 
poisoning.  As  a  result  the  urine  shows  an  increase  in 
acids,  xanthins,  indican,  and  other  forms  of  systemic 
poisons,  which  without  these  explanations  are  re- 
garded as  "deleterious  effects  of  vegetarian  and  raw- 
food  diet." 

This  increased  elimination  is  unavoidable,  if  the 
patient  is  ever  to  be  cured  of  his  chronic  rheumatism 
and  other  acid  diseases — yet  fruits  and  vegetables  are 
blamed  for  causing  rheumatism. 

LeiQon  Juice  the  Most  Efficient  Antiseptic 

The  fruit  acids,  instead  of  being  injurious  to  the  sys- 
tem, are  powerful  solvents  for  morbid  accumulations 
of  an  alkaline  nature. 

In  the  treatment  of  wounds  and  bedsores,  even  of  a 
most  serious  nature,  we  never  use  anything  but  lemon 
juJce  diluted  in  water :  the  juice  of  one-half  lemon  in 
a  cup  of  boiled  or  filtered  water. 

Lemon  juice  is  the  finest  natural  antiseptic  in  exist- 
ence, and  at  the  same  time  wholesome  food,  while  most 
of  the  medicinal  antiseptics  and  germicides  are  power- 
ful protoplasmic  poisons,  which  benumb  and  kill,  not 
only  disease  germs,  bacteria  and  parasites,  but  also 
the  healthy  cells  and  tissues  of  the  body.  If  lemon 
juice  is  such  an  efficient  antiseptic  externally,  it  must 
have  similar  effects  internally.  This  is  true,  not  only 
of  lemon  juice,  but  also  in  a  modified  degree  of  all 
other  acid  and  sub-acid  fruits  and  vegetables. 

Our  treatment  of  wounds  is,  in  other  respects,  alto- 


20  NATURE    CURE    COOK   BOOK 

gether  contrary  to  the  teachings  of  the  orthodox  medi- 
cal schools.  While  they  burj'  wounds  under  many 
layers  of  bandages,  soaked  in  poisonous  antiseptics, 
we  expose  them  as  much  as  possible  to  air  and  light. 
The  results  are  simply  marvelous.  Many  wounds  and 
sores,  which  had  entered  upon  the  advanced  stages  of 
necrosis,  under  the  orthodox  antiseptic  treatment,  and 
old  varicose  ulcers  of  many  years'  standing,  we  have 
healed  perfectly  with  the  simple  lemon  juice,  and  air 
and  light  treatment.  If  somebody  tells  you  this  is  all 
contrary''  to  the  teachings  of  advanced  medical  science, 
just  try  for  yourself  and  profit  by  your  personal  expe- 
rience, which  is,  after  all,  the  only  proof  worth  con- 
sidering. 

Fruit  Juices  the  Best  Medicines  for  Babies 

All  Nature  Cure  babies,  from  the  second  week  of 
their  mundane  existence,  are  given  acid  fruit  juices  in 
between  the  milk  feedings.  This  is  the  best  cure  for 
rachitic  diseases,  because  in  the  fruit  juices  the  infant 
receives  an  abundant  supply  of  the  bone  and  tissue 
building  materials.  To  give  lime  water,  iron,  sodium 
and  other  minerals  in  the  inorganic  mineral  form,  when 
the  luscious  fruits  contain  all  these  elements  in  the  live, 
organic,  ''vitamine"  combinations,  is,  to  say  the  least, 
very  short  sighted.  The  acid  fruits  also  contain  con- 
siderable amounts  of  fruit  sugars, — the  finest  forms  of 
organic  sugar  in  nature. 

Sweet  Fruits 

The  sweet,  alkaline  fruits,  such  as  figs,  dates,  grapes, 
persimmons,  melons,  cantaloupes,  and  certain  varieties 
of  peaches,  pears,  etc.,  are  very  rich  in  highly  refined. 


MEDICINAL   PROPERTIES   OF   RAW    FOODS  21 

organic  sugars,  all  ready  for  assimilatiou,  and  contain 
considerable  amounts  of  the  positive,  organic  mineral 
salts.  They  are,  therefore,  nourishing,  purifying  and 
stimulating. 

Dates  rank  highest  in  sugar,  but  are  comparatively 
poor  in  organic  salts.  Figs  make  a  much  better  show- 
ing, while  they  contain  in  round  figures  sixty  per  cent 
of  saccharine  elements,  they  are  also  very  rich  in 
the  positive  organic  salts,  containing  over  ten  parts 
per  thousand  of  sodium,  seven  per  thousand  of  lime, 
four  per  thousand  of  magnesium.  This  explains  their 
excellent  relaxing,  laxative  properties.  Sweet  grapes 
rank  low  in  proteids,  but  high  in  sugar.  They  contain 
about  one  per  cent  nitrogenous  elements,  no  fats,  about 
sixteen  per  cent  of  sugar,  and  rank  fairly  high  in 
organic  salts, — about  twenty  parts  per  thousand. 

The  value  of  the  grape  cure,  like  that  of  the  milk 
cure,  lies  largely  in  the  fact  that  it  is  a  mild  and  pleas- 
ant form  of  proteid  and  starch  starvation.  The  grape 
sugars  bum  up  (oxidize),  and  the  alkaline  mineral 
elements  neutralize  and  eliminate  the  acid  by-products 
of  starch  and  proteid  digestion. 

The  Berries 

The  berries  are  still  richer  in  the  positive,  alkaline 
mineral  elements  than  the  acid  and  sub-acid  fruits. 
Therefore,  they  possess  great  medicinal  values.  The 
country  people  in  Germany  gather  in  their  seasons, 
the  different  kinds  of  berries,  and  preserve  and  dry 
them  for  use  in  the  winter. 

Huckleberries,  blueberries,  blackberries,  raspberries, 
strawberries,  gooseberries,  elderberries,  currants  and 
cranberries,  besides  being  delicious  raw  foods,  make 


22  NATUBE   CURE   COOK  BOOK 

excellent  soups,  drinks,  and  desserts,  and  are  to  be 
classed  among  Nature's  finest  remedies.  They  run 
from  40  to  100  parts  per  thousand  in  the  positive,  alka- 
line mineral  elements. 

The  wide-spread  belief  that  the  seeds  of  berries  and 
fruits  are  responsible  for  many  cases  of  appendicitis,  is 
another  fairy  tale.  The  best  way  to  prevent  appendi- 
citis is  to  live  largely  on  seed-containing  fruits  and 
berries,  and  on  other  kinds  of  raw  food.  The  small 
seeds  which  are  swallowed  readily  act  as  scourers  of 
the  intestinal  tract.  They  stimulate  the  peristaltic 
movements  of  the  bowels  and  are  natural  laxatives. 
Appendicitis,  in  ninety  per  cent  of  all  cases,  is  caused 
by  a  sluggish,  atrophic  condition  of  the  intestines. 

Huckleberries,  blueberries,  and  blackben'ies  are  ex- 
cellent medicines,  not  only  for  diarrhoea,  but  for  all 
other  ailments  of  the  digestive  tract.  In  severe  diar- 
rhoea, dysentery,  bloody  flux  and  cholera  morbus,  no 
food  whatsoever  should  be  taken, — only  water  mixed 
with  acid  fruit  or  berry  juices.  Blackberries  and 
raspberries  make  delicious  drinks  and  r.re  fine  tonics 
for  weak  stomachs. 

Nuts 

Nuts  are  by  far  the  richest  foods  in  Nature.  They 
contain  only  about  five  per  cent  of  water ;  all  the  rest 
of  their  substance  is  solid  nourishment.  On  an  aver- 
age, they  contain  from  ten  to  twenty  per  cent  of 
proteins,  fifty  to  sixty-five  per  cent  of  fats,  five  to 
ten  per  cent  of  carbohydrates,  and  from  ten  to  twenty 
parts  per  thousand  of  the  positive  mineral  elements. 

The  most  costly  beefsteak  contains  only  from  twenty 
to  thirty  per  cent  of  nourishing  substance,  and  sev- 
enty per  cent  of  impure  water. 


MEDICINAli  PROPERTIES  OP  RAW  FOODS  23 

Nuts,  on  the  other  hand,  are  three  times  richer  than 
meat  in  fats  and  proteins,  and  their  delicious  flavors 
are  enjoyed  best  when  eaten  raw.  They  are,  there- 
fore, the  finest  substitutes  for  meat  in  the  diet  of  the 
vegetarian  and  fruitarian.  The  only  danger  lies  in 
eating  too  many  of  them.  They  should  be  taken  in 
moderate  quantities  only,  and  always  in  combination 
with  foods  of  the  mineral  group. 

No  wonder  many  people  say  "nuts  do  not  agree 
with  me,"  when  they  eat  them  by  the  handful  after 
a  heavy  meal  of  meat,  potatoes  and  vegetables.  The 
vegetarian  uses  nuts,  not  with  meat,  but  in  place  of 
meat. 

Many  nut  recipes  will  be  found  among  "salads," 
"croquettes,"  "roasts,"  and  "sandwich"  fillings. 

Vegetables 

The  leafy.  Juicy  vegetables  which  grow  in  and  near 
the  ground  rank  lower  in  proteins  and  starches  and 
still  higher  in  the  positive  mineral  salts,  than  the 
fruits  and  berries.  They  are,  therefore,  best  suited 
to  balance  in  the  diet  the  acid-producing  starches, 
sugars,  fats  and  proteins.  The  mineral  salts,  con- 
tained in  the  juicy  vegetables  in  larger  amounts  than 
in  any  other  class  of  foods,  are  the  real  blood,  bone 
and  nerve  builders,  the  most  valuable  antiseptics,  blood 
purifiers  and  generators  of  the  positive,  electro-mag- 
netic energies  in  the  body. 

In  the  divisions,  "Salads"  and  "Vegetables,"  we 
have  described  the  best  ways  of  preparing  vegetables, 
uncooked  and  cooked.  Among  these  recipes  will  be 
found  the  most  delicious  raw  food  combinations  of 
berries,  fruits,  nuts  and  vegetables. 


S4  NATURE   CUBE   COOK  BOOK 

None  of  the  vegetables  belonging  to  gronp  five, 
which  are  relished  raw,  are  improved  by  cooking.  The 
cooking  more  or  less  destroys  the  vitamines  and  dissi- 
pates to  some  extent  the  vital  energies  latent  in  the 
vegetable  protoplasm. 

Uncooked  Cereals 

Seeds  are  highly  charged  with  the  sex  principle, 
which  in  phj'-sical  matter  is  the  highest  expression  of 
the  Life  Force.  All  seeds,  such  as  cereals,  nuts, 
legumes,  etc.,  which  can  be  used  as  foods  are,  there- 
fore, especially  rich  in  the  life  elements,  in  vital  mag- 
netism or  vitamines,  and  these  vital  energies  remain 
unimpaired  and  most  effective  in  the  uncooked  foods. 

While  the  digestive  apparatus  of  the  majority  of 
people,  through  the  constant  use  of  cooked  and  highly 
spiced  foods,  has  lost  the  ability  to  thoroughly  digest 
and  assimilate  the  raw  starches  of  cereals,  it  is  good 
practice  to  partake  at  one  or  more  meals  every  day  of 
some  raw  cereals,  ground  or  cracked  fresh  in  a  hand 
mill,  or  soaked,  dried  and  flaked  in  a  grain  and  nut 
flaker.  Flaked  and  rolled  grains  can  be  bought  in 
every  well-equipped  grocery.  A  mixture  of  rolled  oats, 
wheat  and  rye  in  about  equal  proportions,  with  addi- 
tions of  pine  nuts  and  raisins,  makes  an  excellent  and 
palatable  substitute  for  baked  bread.  The  flaked 
grains  may  be  mixed  according  to  individual  taste  and 
fancy,  with  various  kinds  of  nuts,  raisins,  figs,  dates, 
or  other  uncooked  fruits  and  berries.  A  great  variety 
of  palatable  and  tempting  uncooked  strength-food 
dishes  can  be  prepared  in  that  way. 


MEDICINAL  VEGETABLES 
Carrots  and  Beets  Good  Worm  Remedies 

Carrots  and  beets  are  very  rich  in  organic  sugars  and 
mineral  salts,  and  are,  therefore,  excellent  blood- 
builders,  purifiers  and  anthelmintics.  They  are  valu- 
able foods  in  all  forms  of  anemic  and  acid  diseases. 

Children  should  be  allowed  to  eat  all  the  raw  carrots 
and  beets  they  desire,  especially  when  afflicted  with 
intestinal  parasites. 

Pumpkin  Seeds,  Good  Tape-worm  Remedy 

Peeled  pumpkin  seeds,  administered  after  sufficient 
preparation  by  natural  living,  treatment  and  fasting, 
will  harmlessly  and  promptly  remove  tape-worms, 
round-worms,  pin-worms  and  other  parasites.  San- 
tonin, filix  mas.,  and  other  poisonous  anthelmintics 
may  kill  the  worms,  but  they  also  paralyze  the  intes- 
tines, in  many  instances,  causing  lifelong  intestinal 
constipation  and  indigestion. 

Flaxseed  Tea  for  Colds 

Flaxseed  tea  is  a  valuable  remedy  for  colds,  croup 
and  catarrhal  diseases.  It  has  a  soothing  and  healing 
effect  upon  the  raw  and  sore  membranes  of  the  throat, 
and  upon  the  digestive  and  urinary  organs.  Take  a 
few  tablespoonfuls  of  this  tea  when  needed  to  allay  the 
soreness  in  the  throat  and  bronchi.  The  best  way  to 
prepare  this  tea  is  to  boil  a  tablespoon  of  flaxseed  for 

25 


26  NATURE  CURE  COOK  BOOK 

five  minutes,  then  strain  and  add  some  honey  and 
lemon  juice. 

Rutabaga  Syrup  for  Colds 

Rutabagas  furnish  another  splendid  remedy  for 
colds,  croups  and  catarrhs.  Take  a  large  rutabaga, 
scrub  clean  with  vegetable  brush  but  do  not  peel, 
then  wipe  dry.  Remove  top  and  scoop  out  center, 
leaving  a  shell  about  an  inch  and  a  half  in  thickness. 
Fill  cavity  with  unrefined  brown  sugar  or  with  pure 
maple  sugar.  Now  place  in  a  very  slow  oven  or  on  top 
of  a  cookstove  for  eight  to  twelve  hours,  in  such  a 
way  that  the  sugar  and  the  juice  of  the  rutabaga  forms 
a  thick  syrup.  Care  must  be  taken  that  the  applied 
heat  is  not  too  great,  lest  it  bake  the  root  and  dry  up 
the  syrup.  If  the  sugar  absorbs  too  fast,  more  must 
be  added.  A  teaspoonful  of  this  syrup  should  be  taken 
whenever  needed  to  allay  the  irritation  and  soreness  in 
the  throat  and  bronchi. 

Kidney  Tonics 

"  Teas  made  from  watercress,  asparagus  or  juniper 
berries  have  a  relaxing  effect  upon  the  urinary  organs 
and  are  therefore  valuable  aids  to  promote  the  flow  of 
scanty  urine.  Warm  relaxing  sitz  baths  and  hot  com- 
presses over  the  bladder  are  also  valuable  aids  in 
relieving  retention  of  urine.  If  the  urinary  organs  are 
affected  by  inflammatory  conditions,  cooling  com- 
presses and  sitz  baths  must  be  applied. 

Onion  and  Grated  Potato  Poultices  for  Inflammations 

Slightly  fried  onions  make  excellent  drawing  and 
soothing  poultices  for  inflammations  in  the  middle  ear. 


MEDICINAL  VEGETABLES  27 

Grated  raw  potatoes  applied  as  poultices  are  the  best 
of  all  remedies  in  the  worst  forms  of  inflammations  of 
the  eyes  such  as  glaucoma,  trachoma,  gonorrhoeal  in- 
fection, iritis,  etc.  The  raw  potato  poultices  must 
be  renewed  before  they  become  hot  and  dry. 

Cottage  Cheese  and  Gruel  Poultices 

Fresh  cottage  cheese  and  oat  gruel  poultices,  warmed 
to  blood  heat,  make  good  ripening  and  drawing  poul- 
tices for  runabout  abscesses,  boils,  fuinineles,  car- 
buncles and  infected  wounds. 

Horseradisli  and  Pineapple  Good  Counter-irritants 

Grated  horseradish  and  pineapple  and  mustard  make 
good  drawing  counter-irritant  poultices  for  inflamma- 
tions in  the  throat,  lungs,  and  other  organs  of  the  body. 
The  juice  of  pineapples  (raw  or  cooked)  is  a  good 
remedy  for  colds,  coughs  and  croup. 

Natura,!  Laxatives 

The  best  natural  laxatives  are  figs,  prunes  and 
raisins,  raw  or  stewed.  In  febrile  conditions  and  when 
solid  food  cannot  be  taken,  give  the  juices.  Eaisin 
juice  acts  better  on  some  people  than  figs  or  prunes. 

Still  others  are  aided  greatly  by  eating  young,  green 
onions,  Spanish  onions,  scraped  sweet  apples,  or  by 
taking  raw  rhubarb  juice. 

Foods  and  Thirst 

Those  who  adopt  a  vegetarian  diet  soon  find  that 
they  are  not  as  thirsty  and  do  not  require  nearly  as 


28  NATURE   CURE   COOK   BOOK 

large  an  amount  of  fluids  as  they  did  under  the  meat 
diet.     The  following  explains  why  this  is  so. 

The  juicy  fruits  and  vegetables  contain  on  an 
average  about  ninety  per  cent  of  water.  These  fruit 
and  vegetable  juices,  prepared  in  Nature's  own  labora- 
tory, supply  in  the  best  possible  form  the  demand  for 
fluids  in  the  animal  and  human  body.  They  are  cool- 
ing, refreshing,  and  saturated  with  the  most  valuable 
medicinal  elements  found  in  Nature. 

These  vegetarian  foods,  therefore,  are  non-heating 
and  non-irritating,  and  contain  in  themselves  large 
amounts  of  pure  and  wholesome  fluids.  Flesh  foods, 
as  we  have  learned,  are  saturated  with  uric  acid, 
poisonous  alkaloids  and  ptomaines,  which  have  a  stim- 
ulating, heating  and  irritating  effect  upon  the  system. 
This  is  further  increased  by  the  spices  and  condiments 
necessary  to  cover  the  unpleasant  odor  and  taste  of  the 
flesh.  Large  amounts  of  fluids  are  required  to  coun- 
teract the  heating  and  coiToding  effects  of  these  sys- 
temic poisons,  and  to  ''wash"  them  out  of  the  system. 

Herein  lies  the  reason  why  a  meat  diet  creates 
abnormal  thirst  and  is  most  conducive  to  the  forming 
of  the  drink  habit,  while  the  adoption  of  a  fruit  and 
vegetable  diet  is  the  best  remedy  for  the  abnormal 
craving  for  drugs,  tobacco,  and  spirituous  liquors. 

POPULAR  SUPEESTITIONS 

Strawberries  and  Cucumbers — Purifiers,  Not  Poisons 

Strawberries,  cucumbers,  tomatoes,  and  other  medic- 
inal fruits  and  vegetables  are  called  poison  foods  by 
writers  on  hygienic  subjects  of  the  Woods-Hutchinson 
type,  because  they  produce  skin  eruptions,  diarrhoeas 
and  other  forms  of  acute  elimination. 


MEDICINAL   VEGETABLES  29 

Cucumbers,  as  they  come  from  the  garden,  are  medi- 
cine to  the  human  body,  especially  in  diarrhoeas  and 
cholera  morbus.  They  are  homeopathic  to  such  condi- 
tions. It  is  wrong  to  soak  them  in  salt,  pepper  and 
vinegar.  In  their  natural  state  they  ■  are  great  puri- 
fiers, counteracting  the  poisons  of  flesh  foods,  alcohol 
and  tobacco.  Because  they  eliminate  the  noxious 
accumulations  of  these  pbisons  in  a  somewhat  drastic 
manner  many  physicians  and  popular  ignorance  regard 
them  as  harmful  and  poisonous.  This  is  "blaming 
the  broom  for  raising  the  dust."  "When  properly  pre- 
pared, or  rather  when  not  prepared  at  all,  aside  from 
cleansing,  they  rank  among  the  most  wholesome  prod- 
ucts of  the  soil. 

The  rinds  of  the  cucumbers  contain  a  valuable  kidney 
tonic  and  should  not  be  removed  if  tender  and  pala- 
table. 

Grape  fruit  does  not  contain  quinine,  though,  like 
all  other  acid  and  sub-acid  fruits  and  vegetables,  for 
reasons  elsewhere  explained,  it  is  an  excellent  remedy 
in  all  inflammatory  febrile  diseases. 

Tomatoes  do  not  make  cancer,  but  help  to  cure  it. 
Most  of  our  cancer  patients,  at  one  time  or  another 
while  undergoing  treatment,  usually  during  the  healing 
crises,  develop  a  strong  appetite  for  tomatoes,  and  we 
always  encourage  them  to  satisfy  this  craving  to  the 
fullest  extent. 

No  Opium  in  Lettuce 

Lettuce  is  a  splendid  remedy  for  soothing  tired  and 
irritated  nerves,  and  for  relieving  insomnia.  Its  seda- 
tive qualities,  however,  are  not  due  to  opium.  Lettuce 
does  not  contain  the  slightest  trace  of  opium,  but  it 
is  very  rich  in  the  positive,  alkaline  mineral  elements. 


30  NATURE  CURE   COOK   BOOK 

These  neutralize  and  eliminate  the  poisonous  acids  and 
alkaloids  which  irritate  and  over  stimulate  the  brain 
and  nervous  system,  and  cause  all  kinds  of  nervous 
troubles. 

Peaches  do  not  contain  prussic  acid.  It  is  true 
that  the  seed  of  the  peach  contains  minute  quantities 
of  this  poison — not  enough  to  be  harmful — ^but  the 
luscious  flesh  of  the  peach  doe's  not  contain  the  slightest 
trace.  It  is  too  bad  that  people  should  be  frightened 
from  enjoying  one  of  Nature's  most  delicious  and 
wholesome  products  through  this  foolish  superstition. 

Neither  do  watermelons  cause  malaria.  This  is  a 
wide-spread,  superstitious  belief  among  southern 
people,  for  whom  plenty  of  fresh  watermelons  in  their 
season  would  be  the  best  possible  preventive  of  malaria. 
True,  watermelons,  like  all  other  foods,  in  a  condition 
of  decay,  may  become  dangeroiis  to  health,  but  when 
ripe  and  fresh  this  delicious,  juicy  fruit  is  one  of 
Nature's  finest  cooling  and  purifying  medicines — one 
of  the  best  known  cures  for  malaria  and  other  febrile 
diseases  peculiar  to  hot  climates.  If  the  southern 
people  would  use  more  watermelons  and  other  juicy 
fruits  during  the  heated  seasons,  instead  of  too  much 
lard  and  other  greasy  foods — for  which  they  seem  to 
have  a  curious  fancy — they  would  not  be  so  prone  to 
these  maladies. 


SIMPLE  VEGETABLE  SALADS  AND  DRESSINGS 

Vegetable  Salads 

Though  the  following  recipes  appear  scattered 
among  the  ** Salads,"  we  give  them  here  in  a  condensed 
form  for  the  benefit  of  those  who  look  for  a  collection 
of  simple  raw-food  recipes. 

Any  of  the  following  named  green  vegetables  may 
be  served  singlj'-  or  in  various  combinations  with  the 
dressings  below,  e.  g. : 

Lettuce  is  very  appetizing  with  lemon  juice  and 
sugar  only,  or  with  any  of  the  dressings. 

Cucumbers  may  be  sliced  in  the  ordinary  way  with 
any  of  the  first  seven  dressings.  They  are  very  pala- 
table when  quartered  lengthwise  and  sprinkled  with 
lemon  juice  and  olive  oil. 

Sliced  onions,  sliced  tomatoes,  cucumbers,  endive, 
Swiss  chard,  young  can'ots,  green  peas  in  the  pods, 
nasturtiums,  celery,  cabbage  slaw,  young  spinach, 
parsley,  water  cress,  and  dandelions  are  all  good  with 
any  of  the  dressings  mentioned,  to  suit  individual 
taste.  Water  cress  is  very  palatable  with  lemon  juice 
and  olive  oil.  The  flavor  of  tomatoes  blends  well 
with  mayonnaise,  or  with  dressing  No.  6. 

Salad  Dressings 

1.  Lemon  juice. 

2.  Lemon  juice  and  sugar. 

3.  Lemon  juice  and  olive  oil. 

4.  Orange  juice   (with  or  without  olive  oil). 

5.  Rhubarb  juice   (with  or  without  olive  oil). 

6.  Stir  into  i/^  cup  of  oil  1  cup  of  finely  chopped 
onion  or  parsley;  add  the  juice  of  1  lemon  and  a 
pinch  of  salt. 

31 


82  NATURE   CURE   COOK  BOOK 

7.  Stir  into  1  cup  sour  cream,  3  tablespoons  sugar; 
add  lemon  juice  to  taste. 

8.  Stir  into  1  beaten  egg,  1  cup  sweet  cream  and  the 
juice  of  1  lemon;   add  sugar  to  taste. 

9.  "Whip  cream,  season  with  lemon  juice,  a  little 
celery  salt  and  a  bit  of  red  pepper  (if  desired) ;  mix 
well;    a  few  raisins,  chopped  fine,  may  be  added, 

10.  Take  the  yolk  of  1  egg,  y^  teaspoon  salt,  sugar 
and  mustard,  and  a  dash  of  white  pepper  (if  desired) ; 
beat  well  and  add  1  pint  cream  and  the  juice  of  1 
lemon. 

11.  1/2  cup  lemon  juice,  1  cup  water,  a  little  salt  and 
the  juice  of  1  onion. 

12.  Take  fresh,  juicy  sweet  corn,  split  down  the 
grains  and  scrape  out  the  juice  and  pulp ;  to  the  juice 
thus  obtained,  add  an  equal  amount  of  nut  cream  made 
by  thoroughly  mixing  peanut  butter  with  water  to  the 
consistency  of  cream;    add  salt  to  taste. 

13.  Grate  Spanish  onions,  add  salt,  lemon  juice,  sweet 
cream  or  olive  oil,  and,  if  desired,  a  dash  of  white 
pepper. 

14.  Juice  of  2  lemons,  y^  cup  water,  pinch  of  salt 
and  2  tablespoons  olive  oil. 

15.  Mayonnaise  Dressing:  Take  the  yolk  of  1  egg, 
1  teaspoon  each  of  salt,  sugar  and  mustard,  and  stir 
together  (always  in  one  direction),  meanwhile  adding 
1  cup  oil,  drop  by  drop,  and,  lastly,  in  the  same  manner, 
the  juice  of  2  lemons;   keep  in  a  cool  place. 

16.  French  Dressing:  1  teaspoon  salt,  1  of  sugar, 
y^  cup  olive  oil,  2  tablespoons  onion  juice  and  juice 
of  1  lemon;   mix  thoroughly. 

17.  Mix  equal  parts  olive  oil,  Bweet  or  sour  cream, 
and  lemon  juice ;  add  a  little  salt 


SOUPS 

Key  to  reference  letters:  St.  (Starches).  S.  (Sugars).  P» 
(Fats).    P.  (Proteids).    M.  (Mineral  Elements). 

In  the  natural  diet,  we  tolerate  rather  than  recom- 
mend the  use  of  soups.  They  are  objectionable  for  sev- 
eral reasons. 

Most  soups  are  not  relished  except  when  taken  hot, 
and  hot  foods,  especially  liquids,  have  the  effect  of 
anaesthetizing,  weakening  and  dilating  the  stomach. 
Moreover,  like  all  other  liquids,  they  dilute  the  diges- 
tive juices,  all  of  which  tends  to  weaken  and  retard  the 
digestion  of  foods  in  the  stomach. 

Soups  should  be  taken  slowly  and  as  cool  as  thej' 
can  be  relished.  It  is  well  to  take  with  the  soup  some 
solid  food,  such  as  whole  grain  bread,  whole  wheat 
croutons  or  triscuits,  or  some  vegetable  relish,  such  as 
radishes,  onions,  celery,  etc. 

It  is  not  at  all  necessary  to  begin  every  dinner  with 
soup.  It  should  not  be  served  more  than  two  or  three 
times  a  week.    The  soup  habit  should  be  avoided. 

Meat  Soups 

As  far  as  meat  soups  are  concerned,  instead  of  con- 
taining the  strength  of  the  meat,  as  commonly  sup- 
posed, they  contain  much  of  uric  acid  and  other  mor- 
bid materials  with  which  the  animal  carcass  is  satu- 
rated, and  in  addition  to  this  some  fats  and  gelatin, 
but  very  little  of  the  protein  elements.  The  latter 
coagulate  and  remain  in  the  meat  fiber. 

33 


84  NATURE  CURE  COOK  BOOK 

"Well-inforraed  physicians  now  admit  that  soups  and 
meat  extracts  have  more  of  a  stimulating  than  a  nour- 
ishing effect  upon  the  system.  This  artificial  stimula. 
tion  is  caused  by  the  poisonous  acids,  alkaloids  and 
ptomaines  contained  in  the  meat.  The  most  valuable 
constituents  of  flesh  foods,  the  animal  life  element  or 
animal  magnetism,  is  largely  destroyed  and  dissipated 
through  boiling. 

Vegetable  Soups 

Pure  vegetable  soups,  properly  prepared,  are  rich  in 
the  mineral  elements,  which  are  of  the  greatest  impor- 
tance in  the  economy  of  the  body,  but  care  must  be 
taken  not  to  boil  the  vegetable  soups  longer  than 
necessary,  in  order  to  avoid  as  much  as  possible  the 
disintegration  of  the  live-organic  combinations  of  the 
vegetable  food  elements  and  the  dissipation  of  the  vito- 
chemical  life  element   (vitamines). 

The  foundation  of  vegetable  soups  is  a  stock  made 
from  different  leafy  vegetables  and  roots,  with  a  very 
small  addition  of  peas  or  beans  to  supply  the  rich 
flavor  of  the  protein  which  makes  meat  soups  so  pala- 
table. 

All  vegetables  may  thus  be  utilized  with  the  possible 
exception  of  the  red  beet,  which  would  impart  a 
reddish  color  to  the  stock.  The  outer  leaves  of  cab- 
bage, spinach,  lettuce,  kale,  the  tops  of  beets  and 
other  roots,  the  tough  portions  of  celery,  asparagus 
and  green  onions,  which  usually  go  to  waste,  make 
excellent  soup  stock,  because  they  are  rich  in  the  min- 
eral salts, — the  essential  elements  in  good  soup. 

To  clarify  the  stock,  use  crushed  egg-shells.  This 
is  another  by-product  of  the  kitchen  that  is  generally 
thought  fit  only  for  the  garbage  can ;  yet  the  lime  and 


SOUPS  85 

other  minerals  contained  in  the  shells  of  the  eggs  are 
valuable  elements  of  nutrition.  The  egg-shells  should 
be  washed,  dried  in  the  oven,  crushed  and  kept  in  a 
covered  jar  until  required  for  clarifying  soups  and 
cereal  coffee. 

SOUPS  MADE  WITH  LEGUMES 

1.  Cream  of  Bean  and  Salsify 

Groups  St.  P.  M.— S.  F. 

Sort  and  wash  1  pint  navy  beans  and  soak  them  over 
night.  Cook  with  1  large  onion  and  a  handful  of 
parsley  in  enough  water  to  cover  well,  until  nearly 
done.  Add  12  good-sized  salsify  roots,  peeled  and  cut 
into  small  pieces.  Cook  one  hour  longer,  adding  more 
water  if  necessar3\  Rub  through  a  colander,  reheat, 
and  add  stock  or  milk  to  make  3  quarts.  Season,  and 
add  butter. 

2.  Puree  of  Bean 

Groups  Ct.  P.  M.— F. 

Soak  1  pint  of  navy  or  kidney  beans  over  night. 
Cook  in  enough  water  to  cover  until  nearly  tender. 
Add  4  or  5  tomatoes  and  1  onion  cut  in  pieces.  Cook 
about  thirty  minutes  longer,  mash  through  a  colander, 
add  hot  milk  (if  desired),  butter  and  seasoning",  and 
sprinkle  with  a  little  chopped  parsley. 

Note:  Olive  oil,  used  instead  of  butter,  imparts  a 
flavor  relished  by  many. 

3.  Lima  Bean  Soup 

Groupa  St.  P.  M.— F. 

FoUow  the  directions  for  Puree  of  Bean,  using  lima 
beans. 


36  NATURE   CURE   COOK  BOOK 

4.  Mexican  Bean  Soup 

Groups  St.  P. 
Soak  1  pint  of  brown  or  Mexican  beans  over  night. 
Cook  until  nearly  tender.  Add  2  potatoes  cut  into  dice 
and  cook  until  potatoes  are  soft.  Mash  through  a 
colander,  add  1/2  teaspoon  sugar,  and  butter  and  salt 
to  taste. 

5.  Puree  a  la  Jackson 
Groups  St,  P.  M.— F. 

Soak  1  pint  each  of  dried  peas  and  beans.  Cook 
about  one  hour  in  water  enough  to  cover.  Add  1 
turnip,  1  large  carrot,  2  celery  roots  (German  celery), 
and  6  potatoes  cut  indo  dice.  Cook  one  hour  longer, 
or  until  thoroughly  done,  and  mash  through  a  colander. 
Add  plenty  of  butter  or  olive  oil,  seasoning,  and 
chopped  parsley. 

6.  Lentil  Soup 

Groups  St.  P.  M.— F. 
Soak  1  pint  of  lentils  over  night.  Cook  with  a 
bunch  of  parsley  in  water  enough  to  cover  well  for 
about  one  hour.  Add  1  cup  tomatoes,  canned  or 
fresh,  1  Spanish  onion  and  2  carrots  cut  into  dice. 
Rub  through  a  colander  and  reheat  with  water  or 
stock  sufficient  to  make  2  quarts  of  soup.  Brown  2 
teaspoons  flour  in  an  equal  amount  of  butter  and  add 
to  the  boiling  soup.  Cook  five  minutes  longer,  season 
to  taste,  add  more  butter,  and  sprinkle  with  chopped 
parsley,  if  desired. 

7.  Plain  Pea  Soup 

Groups  M.  S.— St.  F.  P. 
"Wash  the  pods  of  1  pint  of  fresh  shelled  peas  and 
boil  with  a  few  sprigs  of  parsley  or  marjoram  in  water 


SOUPS  37 

enough  to  cover,  about  thirty  minutes.  Strain,  and 
cook  the  peas  in  this  water  until  tender.  Season  to 
taste,  thicken  with  1  tablespoon  flour  rubbed  smooth 
in  a  little  cold  milk  or  water,  and  add  1  tablespoon 
butter,  also  hot  stock  or  milk  to  make  2  quarts.  Do 
not  strain.     Sprinkle  with  chopped  parsley. 

8.  Puree  of  Peas — I 

Groups    St.  P.— F.  M. 

Soak  1  pint  yellow  split  peas  over  night;  cook  in 
water  enough  to  cover,  with  1  small  onion  and  a  little 
celery.  Let  simmer  gently  for  two  hours,  then  rub 
through  a  colander.  Reheat,  adding  water  to  make  2 
quarts.  Let  boil  a  few  minutes,  season,  and  add  butter 
or  olive  oil.     Serve  with  croutons. 

9.  Puree  of  Peas— II 
Groups  St.  P.  3VL— F. 

Soak  1  pint  of  dried  peas  over  night  (or  use  1  quart 
of  fresh  shelled  peas).  Cook  in  water  enough  to  cover 
well,  with  1  onion  and  a  bunch  of  savory  herbs.  "When 
the  peas  are  tender,  remove  the  flavoring,  and  rub 
through  a  colander.  Reheat,  adding  water  or  stock  to 
make  2  quarts.  Season,  add  butter,  sprinkle  with 
finely  chopped  parsley,  and  serve  with  croutons. 

10.  Puree  of  Peas—III 

Groups  St  P.— F. 

Soak  dried  peas  over  night.  When  ready  to  cook 
cover  with  cold  water.  "When  tender,  press  through 
a  colander,  add  butter  and  salt,  and  let  stand  on  back 
of  range  until  it  thickens.  Puree  of  beans  or  lentils 
may  be  made  in  the  same  manner. 


88  NATURE  CURE   COOK  BOOK 

11.  Dark  Surprise  Soup 

Groups  St.  P.  F.— M. 

Soak  over  night  1  pint  each  of  black  beans  and 
lentils.  Let  boil  gently  until  soft  in  water  enough  to 
cover,  with  1  onion  and  1  pod  of  okra.  Mash  through 
a  colander  and  return  to  kettle.  Add  water  enough 
to  make  2  quarts,  and  cook  for  twenty  minutes  with  a 
little  thyme,  summer  savory  and  parsley;  add  butter 
and  seasoning.  Before  serving,  add  4  hard-boiled  eggs, 
chopped  fine,  and  1  lemon  sliced  very  thin. 

SOUPS  MADE  WITH  MILK 

12.  Cream  of  Asparagus — ^I 

Groups  M.  F.— P.  St 

Cut  the  tough  ends  of  about  2  dozen  stalks  of  aspara- 
gus into  small  pieces  and  cook  slowly  in  3  pints  of 
water  about  one  hour.  Make  a  cream  sauce  of  2 
tablespoonfuls  each  of  flour  and  butter,  and  2  cups  milk. 
Add  to  this  the  strained  asparagus  water,  and  the  tips 
and  tender  parts  of  the  asparagus,  which  has  been 
cut  fine  and  cooked  separately.  Season  to  taste,  add 
butter,  and  serve. 

13.  Cream  of  Asparagus — ^11 

Groups  M.— F.  P.  St. 

Cut  the  tips  and  tender  portions  of  about  2  dozen 
stalks  of  asparagus  very  fine  and  cook  them  in  enough 
water  to  prevent  burning.  Heat  milk  to  boiling; 
thicken  with  cracker  crumbs.  Add  asparagus,  also 
butter  and  seasoning  to  taste.  Let  boil  a  few  minutes 
and  serve. 


SOUPS  89 

14.  Cream  of  Barley 
Groups  St.— P.  M.  S.  P. 

Wash  1  cup  barley  and  cook  in  1  quart  water  until 
soft.  Peel  and  grate  1  medium-sized  onion,  and  add 
the  juice  and  about  half  the  pulp  to  the  barley.  Let 
it  boil,  then  rub  through  a  coarse-wire  sieve.  Add 
1  quart  milk  (hot),  butter,  and  seasoning  to  taste. 

15.  Cream  of  Beet 

Groups  S.  ]V1— St.  F.  P. 

Peel  and  cut  into  small  strips  6  good-sized  beets 
and  1  onion.  Add  a  small  piece  of  sweet  pepper  and 
a  spray  of  parsley.  Cook  in  water  enough  to  prevent 
burning  until  the  beets  are  very  tender ;  remove  pepper 
and  parsley,  rub  beets  through  a  sieve.  Reheat,  and 
thicken  with  a  little  flour  and  butter  blended.  Add  1 
quart  hot  milk,  and  the  well-beaten  yolk  of  1  egg. 
Season  to  taste. 

16.  Cream  of  Carrot 

Groups  M.  S.  F.— St.  P. 

Cut  about  1  dozen  carrots  into  small  pieces.  Cook 
until  tender  in  enough  water  to  prevent  burning,  with 
a  small  piece  of  butter  added.  Mash  through  a  col- 
ander and  reheat,  adding  about  3  pints  hot  milk,  2 
tablespoons  butter,  and  1  tablespoon  flour  rubbed 
smooth  in  a  little  cold  milk.  Let  all  come  to  boiling 
and  season  to  taste. 

17.  Cream  of  Celery— I 

Groups  M.  F.— St. 

Cut  the  enter,  tough  part  of  4  stalks  celery  into 
pieces.     Cook  slowly  in  2  pints  water  about  one  hour. 


40  NATURE   CURE   COOK  BOOK 

To  the  strained  celery  stock  add  about  1  cup  finely 
cut,  crisp,  white  celery,  cooked  separately  in  a  small 
quantity  of  slightly  salted  water  until  tender.  Thicken 
with  flour  blended  with  butter,  and  add  1  pint  rich 
cream,  heated.     Let  boil  a  few  minutes  and  serve. 

18.  Cream  of  Celery— II 

Groups  M.  F.  S.  P.— St. 

Cut  2  large  stalks  celery  into  small  pieces.  Cook 
in  a  double  boiler  with  2  pints  milk  until  tender.  Mash 
through  a  colander  and  return  to  double  boiler.  Add 
a  cream  sauce  made  of  2  tablespoons  each  of  flour  and 
butter  and  1  pint  milk.  Let  come  to  boil,  season  to 
taste,  and  stir  in  1  cup  whipped  cream  (unsweetened) 
before  serving. 

19.  Cream  of  Cheese  (Duchess  Soup) 

Groups  P.  F.— S.  M.  St. 

Put  2  tablespoons  butter  in  a  saucepan.  When 
melted,  add  1  onion,  sliced.  Cook  until  soft  and 
creamy,  and  sift  in  2  tablespoons  flour,  stirring  well  to 
prevent  lumps.  Transfer  to  double  boiler,  add  3  pints 
hot  milk,  and  seasoning  to  taste.  Add  6  tablespoons 
grated  cheese,  stirring  well.  When  smoking  hot,  rub 
through  a  fine  sieve,  reheat,  and  serve. 

20.  Cream  of  Chestnut 

Groups  F.  P.— S.  M.  St. 

Scald  and  peel  chestnuts  to  make  1  pint.  Cook  in 
1  quart  water  until  soft,  then  rub  through  a  colander. 
Add  1  quart  hot  milk,  season,  add  butter,  let  cook  two 
minutes,  and  serve. 


SOUPS  41 

21.  Cream  of  Corn — I 

Groups  S.  M.  F.  P.— St. 

To  2  cnps  com,  grated  or  scraped,  add  1  grated  onion 
and  3  pints  hot  milk.  Cook  in  double  boiler  about 
twenty  minutes ;  add  butter  and  seasoning  to  taste. 

22.  Cream  of  Corn— 11 

Groups  S.  F.  M.— P.  St. 

Simmer  1  quart  grated  corn,  in  millc  to  cover,  about 
thirty  minutes.  Add  4  tablespoons  butter,  salt  to 
taste,  a  little  grated  onion,  then  thin  with  hot  milk 
to  make  the  desired  consistency.  Before  serving  add 
1  tablespoon  of  whipped  cream  to  each  portion,  also 
a  little  minced  parsley. 

23.  Cream  of  Lettuce 

Groups  M.  F.  S. 

Wash  well  and  cut  fine  some  lettuce  leaves,  also  a 
small  amount  of  other  vegetables,  such  as  carrots,  leek 
and  onions.  Stew  in  a  little  salted  water  until  soft, 
press  through  a  colander;  reheat.  Just  before  serv- 
ing, add  %  cup  cream  and  1  cup  finely  shredded 
lettuce. 

24.  Cream  of  Mushroom — I 

Groups  P.  F.— St.  S.  M. 

Wash  well,  peel  and  chop  fine  2  quarts  mushrooms. 
Add  water  enough  to  cover,  and  a  small  piece  of 
butter.  Let  simmer  until  nearly  done,  stirring  often. 
Add  y^  teaspoon  grated  onion,  and  thicken  with  flour 
blended  with  butter.  Season,  and  add  enough  hot  milk 
to  make  2  quarts.     Let  boil  two  minutes,  and  serve. 


42  NATURE   CURE   COOK  BOOK 

25.  Cream  of  Mushroom — n 

Groupi  P.  F.— St.  S. 

Peel  and  -wash  well  1  quart  mushrooms.  Add  water 
enough  to  cover,  and  boil  until  tender  enough  to  rub 
through  a  coarse  sieve.  Make  a  cream  sauce,  using  2 
tablespoons  butter,  3  tablespoons  flour,  and  1  quart 
milk.  Add  the  mushrooms,  season  to  taste,  and  serve 
with  bread  sticks. 

26.  Noodle  Soup 

Groups  St.  S.  F.  P. 

Heat  milk  in  double  boiler  or  over  an  asbestos  mat. 
Add  the  desired  amount  of  noodles,  let  boil  about 
twenty  minutes,  season,  sprinkle  with  finely  chopped 
parsley,  and  serve  at  once. 

27.  Cream  of  Onion 

Groups  M.  F.  S.  P.— St. 

Peel  and  slice  6  Spanish  onions.  Heat  2  tablespoons 
butter,  add  the  onions,  and  stir  until  they  begin  to 
cook.  Add  1  cup  water,  cover  and  let  simmer  about 
thirty  minutes  longer,  then  add  1  quart  hot  milk. 
Strain,  add  i/4  cup  cracker  crumbs,  and  seasoning". 

28.  Onion  Soup 

Groups  M.  F.  P.  S.— St. 

Chop  4  good-sized  onions  and  cook  very  slowly  until 
soft;  add  1  quart  rich  milk,  heated;  season,  thicken 
with  cracker  crumbs,  add  a  good-sized  lump  of  butter 
and  serve  without  straining. 


SOUPS  43 

29.  Browned  Onion  Soup 

Groups  M.  F.  S.  P. 

Slice  onions,  put  in  a  baking  pan  with  a  little  butter, 
and  let  brown  well  but  do  not  burn.  Put  the  onions 
in  a  saucepan  with  hot  milk,  and  let  simmer  about  one- 
half  hour.    Season,  add  butter,  strain  and  serve. 

30.  Cream  of  Potato 

Groups  St.  F.  P.  M.— S. 

Cut  6  large  potatoes  into  pieces,  and  cook  until  soft 
in  enough  salted  water  to  cover.  Mash  through  a 
colander,  add  1  quart  hot  milk,  a  lump  of  butter,  sea- 
soning to  taste,  and  a  little  chopped  parsley. 

31.  Potato  Soup 

Groups  St.  M.  F.— S.  P. 

Pare  and  cut  into  dice  3  large  potatoes  and  1  onion. 
Cover  with  cold  water,  add  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut, 
and  cook  about  thirty  minutes.     Add  1  quart  hot  milk. 

Rub  1  tablespoon  butter  into  2  of  flour  with  1/2  tea- 
spoon baking  powder  added.  Make  a  fairly  stiff  dough 
with  cold  milk,  roll  thin,  and  cut  into  small  squares  or 
diamonds.  Heat  the  potatoes  and  milk  to  boiling, 
drop  in  the  dough,  cover  closely,  and  let  boil  about 
ten  minutes.  Season,  sprinkle  with  finely  chopped 
parsley  or  thjnne,  add  butter,  and  serve. 

32.  Cream  of  Eic9 

Groups  St.  F.  S.  P.  M. 

Rub  1  cup  cooked  rice  through  a  coarse-wire  sieve. 
Add  3  pints  milk  and  the  juice  of  1  onion,  and  heat 


44  NATURE   CURE   COOK  BOOK 

to  the  boiling  point  in  double  boiler;   add  butter  and 
seasoning  to  taste. 

33.  Squash  Soup 

Groups  F.  S.  M.  P.— St. 

Peel  and  quarter  1  small  squash,  remove  seeds,  cut 
into  pieces  and  steam  until  tender;  rub  through  a 
coarse  sieve,  and  heat  to  boiling  in  double  boiler  with 
2  quarts  milk.  Season  with  butter  and  nutmeg,  and 
add  the  well-beaten  yolks  of  2  eggs.  Serve  with 
croutons. 

34.  Cream  of  Tapioca 

Groups  St.  F.  M.  S.  P. 

"Wash  y2  cup  tapioca,  let  soak  for  two  hours  in  cold 
water,  then  put  on  to  cook  with  1  onion  and  2  stalks 
celery,  chopped  fine.  Cook  until  the  tapioca  is  clear, 
adding  more  water  if  necessary.  Make  a  cream  sauce 
of  2  tablespoons  each  of  butter  and  flour,  blended,  and 
1  quart  milk,  and  add  to  the  soup.  Season  to  taste, 
and  serve. 

35.  Cream  of  Tomato — ^I 

Groups  M.  F.  S.  P.— St. 

Cook  1  can  tomatoes,  or  fresh  tomatoes,  cut  up  to 
make  1  quart,  and  1  large  onion,  with  1  teaspoon  sugar 
added,  for  about  twenty  minutes  in  water  enough  to 
prevent  burning.  Rub  through  a  coarse  sieve,  reheat, 
and  add  a  pinch  of  baking  soda.  Meantime,  heat  3 
pints  milk  to  boiling  in  a  double  boiler,  and  thicken 
with  1  tablespoon  flour  or  cornstarch  nibbed  smooth 
in  a  little  cold  milk.     Add  the  tomatoes  to  the  milk, 


80DPS  49 

stimng  constantly.     Season,  and  add  butter  the  size 
of  a  walnut. 

36.  Cream  of  Tomato— 11 

Groups  3VL  F.  S.  P.— St. 

Cook  and  strain  through  a  coarse  sieve  1  quart 
tomatoes.  Reheat  to  boiling  point,  and  thicken  with 
a  little  cornstarch.  In  a  saucepan  melt  1  large  table- 
spoon butter,  sift  in  1  tablespoon  flour,  and  let  cook 
until  perfectly  smooth,  then  add  slowly  sufficient  hot 
milk  to  make  1  quart.  Heat  to  boiling,  mix  with  the 
tomatoes,  season,  and  add  more  butter  and  a  little 
sugar,  if  desired.     This  will  not  curdle. 

Note : — Many  people  experience  difficulty  on  account 
of  the  curdling  of  the  milk.  The  secret  of  success  lies 
in  using  fresh  milk,  and  having  both  the  milk  and 
tomatoes  at  equal  temperature  at  the  time  of  mixing. 
It  is  better  to  add  the  tomatoes  to  the  milk,  not  vice 
versa.  If  there  is  any  doubt  about  the  freshness  of 
the  milk,  a  small  amount  of  baking  soda  added  to  the 
tomatoes  will  counteract  the  acidity ;  but  this  addition 
of  inorganic  soda  to  food  is  undesirable  and  should 
be  avoided. 

37.  Cream  of  Leek 

Groups  M.  r. — St. 

Cut  leeks  in  small  pieces,  cover  with  water,  let  sim- 
mer until  tender,  then  rub  through  a  fine  sieve.  Heat 
%  cup  butter,  add  2  tablespoons  flour  (to  2  quarts  of 
stock) ;  let  simmer,  but  not  brown.  Add  a  little  of 
the  hot  stock  and  stir  until  smooth,  then  add  to  the 
soup,  which  should  be  of  a  creamy  consistency.  Sea- 
son to  taste,  and,  lastly,  add  1  cup  hot  cream. 


46  NATURE    CURE    COOK    BOOK 

38.  Salsify  Soup 

Groups  M.  S.  F.  P.— St. 

Allow  4  stalks  salsify  to  each  plate  of  soup ;  scrape 
and  cut  into  desired  pieces;  put  on  to  cook  with 
butter  and  just  enough  water  to  cover;  when  tender, 
add  a  sufficient  amount  of  hot  milk;  let  boil  about  five 
minutes;  season,  and  serve  with  crackers. 

39.  Puree  of  Carrots 

Groups  S.  M.  F.— St.  P. 
Scrape  and  slice  6  large  carrots ;  boil  in  a  very  small 
quantity  of  water  with  2  tablespoons  butter;  when 
tender,  rub  through  a  sieve,  add  salt  and  sugar  to 
taste,  and  hot  cream;  beat  well,  let  boil  up;  garnish 
with  minced  parsley  and  serve. 

40.  Cream  of  Peas 

Groiips  (green  peas)  S.  M.  F,  P. — St. 
Mash  2  cups  cooked  peas  (fresh  or  dried)  through 
a  coarse  sieve.      Add  1  grated  onion,  3  pints  milk, 
butter,  and  seasoning  to  taste.     Heat  to  boiling  point 
and  serve  with  croutons  or  egg  beans. 

41.  Puree  of  Sweet  Peas 

Groups  S.  M.  F.  P. 
Cook  1  pint  of  shelled  peas  and  1  slice  of  onion, 
with  1  small  teaspoon  sugar  added,  in  enough  water 
to  cover  until  soft.  Add  3  pints  hot  milk,  or  half 
milk  and  half  water,  and  let  simmer  about  twenty 
minutes  longer.  Thicken  with  1  tablespoon  each  of 
flour  and  butter,  blended.  Let  boil  a  few  minutes, 
season,  and  mash  through  a  colander.  Reheat,  sprinkle 
with  chopped  parsley,  and  serve. 


SOUPS  47 

SOUPS  MADE  WITH  VEGETABLE   STOCK 

42.  Vegetable  Stock  (for  Clear  Soups) 

Groups  M.— St.  S.  P. 

"Wash  carefully,  using  a  stiff  brush  for  the  roots,  ^ 
cup  peas,  beans  or  lentils  (not  soaked),  2  parsnips,  1 
turnip,  4  carrots,  1  sweet  pepper,  2  stalks  celery  (with 
leafy  tops),  1  onion,  %  cabbage,  2  tomatoes,  a  small 
handful  parsley,  1  bunch  wintergreen.  Cut  into  pieces 
and  cook  slowly  in  3  quarts  water  from  one  to  two 
hours.  Strain,  add  salt  to  taste,  and  keep  in  a  cool 
place  until  needed.  Instead  of  the  foregoing  combi- 
nation, any  other  vegetables  may  be  used  (see  intro- 
duction to  soups). 

If  stock  of  stronger  flavor  and  darker  color  be 
desired,  the  stalks,  roots  and  tubers  may  be  cut  into 
pieces  and  browned  in  the  oven  or  frying-pan  with 
a  little  butter  before  cooking  them  with  the  green  vege- 
tables. 

Note: — The  shells  of  eggs,  crushed  and  kept  in  a 
jar  until  required,  may  be  boiled  with  the  vegetables 
to  clarify  the  stock.  For  amber  stock,  use  the  outer 
skins  of  onions. 

43.  Vegetable  Bouillon  (Consomme) 

Groups  M.— F.  St.  S.  P. 

Heat  rich,  clarified  vegetable  stock;  add  butter  and 
seasoning  to  taste,  and  serve  in  bouillon  cups. 

44.  Asparagus  Soup 

Groups  M.  F.— St.  S.  P. 

Cut  about  2  dozen  stalks  asparagus  into  small  dice, 
cook  slowly  until  tender,  in  enough  water  to  prevent 


48  NATURE  CURE  COOK  BOOK 

burning.  Add  hot  vegetable  stock  to  make  2  quarts. 
Beat  together  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  and  y^  cup  cream; 
stir  the  soup  into  this,  and  serve  at  once. 

45.  Barley  Soup 

Groups  M.  St.— F.  P. 

Add  1  quart  water  to  1  cup  tomatoes  cut  into  pieces, 
then  add  butter  the  size  of  a  Avalnut,  1/2  cup  barley, 
and  cook  slowly  until  the  barley  is  soft.  Add  rich 
vegetable  stock  (hot)  to  make  2  quarts,  and  season  to 
taste. 

46.  Celery  Soup  (German  Style) 

Groups  M.— F.  St.  S.  P. 

Cut  4  stalks  celery  very  fine,  and  cook  in  a  small 
quantity  of  water  until  tender.  Add  3  pints  of  either 
stock  or  milk  (hot),  butter  and  seasoning  to  taste. 

47.  Chervil  Soup 

Groups  M.  F.  St.— P. 

Wash  and  chop  fine  1  large  bunch  chervil.  Cook  in 
2  quarts  stock  about  fifteen  minutes.  Add  2  potatoes 
cut  into  small  dice.  Cook  until  potatoes  are  done,  add 
2  tablespoons  flour  blended  with  butter,  and  let  come 
to  a  boil.     Season  to  suit  taste. 

48.  Chestnut  Soup — ^I 

Groups  F.  P.  St. — M. 

Put  1  pound  of  chestnuts  into  a  stewing  pan  with 
about  2  quarts  of  water;  let  cook  until  tender,  then 
add  1  cup  washed  rice,  a  little  more  water  and  butter, 
and  1  cream  cheese,  grated;  when  the  rice  is  tender, 
drain  through  a  fine  sieve  ;  season  and  serve. 


SOUPS  49 

49.  Chestnut  Soup— 11 

Groups  M.  F.  P.— St.  8. 

Chop  1  cup  boiled  chestnuts  very  fine.  Add  2  quarts 
stock,  heat,  and  add  butter  and  seasoning  to  taste.  If 
necessary,  thicken  with  flour  and  butter,  blended. 
When  serving,  add  1  tablespoon  whipped  cream  (un- 
sweetened) to  each  portion. 

50.  Consomme  Royal 

Groups  M.  F.  P.— S.  St. 

.  Slice  1  onion,  add  1  sprig  parsley  and  1  quart  milk. 
Cook  in  double  boiler  and  strain.  "When  cool,  add  1 
egg,  slightly  beaten,  salt  to  taste,  and  a  little  nutmeg. 
Reheat,  add  3  pints  stock  (hot),  1  tablespoon  Parmesan 
cheese  (grated  or  shaved),  and  serve  with  squares  of 
hot  buttered  toast. 

51.  Com  Soup 

Groups  M.  S.  F.— P.  St. 

Cook  2  cups  sweet  corn,  grated  or  scraped  (canned 
com  may  be  used),  2  quarts  stock,  about  twenty  min- 
utes in  double  boiler;  add  butter  and  seasoning  to 
taste. 

52.  Soup  a  la  Creole 
Groups  M.  F.  P.  St.  S. 

Chop  1  head  lettuce,  1  onion,  and  a  few  sprigs  of 
parsley,  and  put  them  into  a  saucepan  with  butter  the 
size  of  an  egg.  Cover,  let  stew  gently  for  ten  min- 
utes, then  sift  in  2  tablespoons  flour,  stirring  well  to 
prevent  lumps.  Add  slowly  2  quarts  boiling  stock, 
then  1  cup  mashed  potatoes  rubbed  smooth  with  cream. 
Season,  and  add  a  pinch  of  nutmeg.     Beat  4  eggs  with 


50  NATURE   CURE   COOK   BOOK 

1  cup  cream  in  the  tureen;   pour  the  soup  over  this, 
stirring  constantly.      Serve  at  once  with  croutons. 

03.  Einlauf  Soup     (A  German  Dish) 

Groups  M.  F.  P.— St. 

Take  as  much  soup  stock  as  desired.  Drop  from  the 
end  of  a  spoon  or  pour  slowly  through  a  coarse  sieve 
a  thin,  smooth  batter  made  with  1  egg,  well  beaten,  1 
tablespoon  flour,  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Let  cook  for 
two  minutes  before  serving. 

54.  Favorite  Soup 

Groups  M.  St.  p.  F.— S. 
Cut  1  large  onion  and  1  carrot  into  tubes;  put  into 
a  frying-pan  with  I/4  cup  melted  butter;  cook  slowly 
a  few  minutes,  then  add  6  good-sized  tomatoes,  cut  in 
pieces;  2  quarts  boiling  water  or  stock,  1  tablespoon 
flour  browned  in  butter,  and  1  cup  rice.  Cook  slowly 
until  the  rice  is  tender ;   season,  and  serve. 

55.  Julienne  Soup 

Groups  IL  S.  St.— P.  F.  j 

Cut  in  small  strips,  2  large  carrots,  2  turnips,  2 
parsnips,  a  small  head  of  cabbage,  1  Spanish  onion, 
3  or  4  potatoes,  about  6  tomatoes,  and  1  stalk  of  leek. 
Add  3  quarts  of  stock  and  let  boil  gently  for  about 
one  hour.  Add  a  generous  lump  of  butter,  and  season 
to  taste. 

56.  Lettuce  Soup 

Groups  M.  F.— St.  S.  P. 
Cut  fine  3  heads  of  nice,  crisp  lettuce  and  2  green 
onions.     Put  into  a  kettle  with  2  tablespoons  butter, 
and  cook  about  five  minutes,  stirring  constantly.    Add 


SOUPS  51 

3  pints  stock  (hot),  let  cook  slowly  about  twenty 
minutes,  and  season  to  taste.  Add  1  cup  whipped 
cream  (unsweetened)  just  before  serving. 

57.  Mock  Turtle  Soup 

Groups  M,  P.  F.  St. 

Cut  into  small  dice  1  carrot,  2  potatoes,  1  onion,  and 
1  stalk  celery.  Cook  in  water  enough  to  prevent  burn- 
ing about  fifteen  minutes.  Add  1  cup  mushrooms,  cut 
into  small  pieces,  and  cook  about  ten  minutes  longer. 
Add  water  or  stock  (hot),  to  make  2  quarts.  Brown 
1  tablespoon  flour  in  same  amount  of  butter,  and  add 
to  soup,  with  seasoning  to  taste.  Let  boil  a  few  min- 
utes, then  pour  over  the  yolks  of  2  hard-boiled  eggs, 
chopped  fine,  and  1  lemon,  cut  into  dice. 

58.  Cream  of  Nut  Soup 

Groups  M.  F.  P.— St.  S. 
To  1  cup  nut  meal  add  3  pints  stock,  stirring  well 
to  prevent  lumps.    Heat,  add  a  little  butter,  and  season 
to  taste.     Beat  the  yolk  of  1  egg  well,  stir  the  soup 
into  it,  and  serve  at  once. 

59.  Noodle  Soup 

Groups  M.  St.— P.  S. 
Into   boiling   stock   drop   the   desired   quantity   of 
noodles  (see  Recipe  No.  105).     Let  boil  from  twenty 
to  thirty  minutes  before  serving. 

GO.  Eic©  Soup— I 

Groups  M.  St.— F,  S.  P. 
Heat  stock  to  boiling.     To  every  quart  add  1  large 
tablespoon  rice.     Let  cook  about  half  an  hour,  and  add 


62  NATURE   CURE    COOK   BOOK 

butter  and  seasoning  to  taste.     Green  peas  or  slices  of 
carrot  may  be  added  if  desired. 

Note : — Sago,  tapioca,  farina  and  the  different  kinds 
of  noodles  on  the  market  may  be  used  instead  of  rice. 

61.  Rico  Soup— n 

Groups  11  Ct.— F.  S.  P. 

Wash  y^  cup  rice,  add  1  pint  cold  water;  let  come 
to  the  boiling  point  and  boil  hard  for  five  minutes. 
Add  3  pints  of  stock  (boiling  hot),  some  cooked  green 
peas,  or  any  other  cooked  vegetable  (as,  for  instance, 
carrot  or  cauliflower,  cut  into  dice).  Let  simmer  on 
back  of  stove  for  ten  minutes,  then  add  butter  and  sea- 
soning to  taste. 

62.  Sago  Soup,  With  Egg 

Groups  M.  F.  St.— S,  P. 

To  1  quart  soup  stock  add  1  tablespoon  sago.  Let 
cook  until  sago  is  clear.  Just  before  serving,  add  the 
well-beaten  yolk  of  1  ^gg  to  each  quart  of  soup. 

63.  Salsify  Soup  (Oyster  Plant) 

Groups  M.  F.— St. 

Follow  directions  for  celery  soup,  substituting  salsify 
for  celery. 

64.  Scotch  Kale  Soup 

Groups  M.— F.  St.  P.  S. 

Wash  well  and  chop  very  fine  sufficient  kale  to  make 
2  cups.  Cook  in  4  quarts  stock  about  one  hour.  Add 
butter,  salt,  y^  cup  rolled  oats,  and  1  grated  onion. 
Let  cook  about  thirty  minutes. 


SOUPS  53 

65.  Spinach  Soup 

Groups  M.— F.  St.  P.  S. 

Follow  the  directions  for  Scotch  Kale  Soup,  substi- 
tuting spinach  for  kale. 

66.  Tomato  Consomme 

Groups  M.— F.  St.  S.  P. 

Cut  10  tomatoes  into  pieces  without  removing  the 
skin;  peel  and  slice  1  Spanish  onion;  cook  with  2 
bay  leaves  in  about  1  quart  water.  Strain,  season  to 
taste,  add  butter,  and  serve  in  bouillon  cups. 

67.  Tomato  Soup 

Groups  M.  F.— St.  S. 

To  1  quart  tomatoes  cut  into  pieces  (or  an  equal 
amount  of  canned  tomatoes),  add  %  teaspoon  sugar 
and  1  bay  leaf.  Cook  in  1  quart  water  about  thirty 
minutes,  strain,  and  reheat.  "When  boiling,  add  2 
tablespoons  flour  blended  with  2  tablespoons  butter; 
let  cook  ten  minutes,  and  season  with  celery  salt. 

Note: — Instead  of  flour,  2  tablespoons  rice  may  be 
used, 

68.  Tomato  Soup  With  Noodles 

Groups  M.  St.— P.  S.  F. 

Peel  5  or  6  tomatoes,  cut  into  small  pieces,  and  cook 
with  2  quarts  stock.  When  boiling,  add  the  desired 
quantity  of  noodles  (see  Recipe  No.  105,  page  65),  let 
boil  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes,  add  butter  and  serve. 


54  NATURE   CURE   COOK  BOOK 

69.  Puree  of  Tomatoes 

Groups  M.— St.  F.  8.  P. 

Cut  into  pieces  6  large  tomatoes,  1  potato,  1  onion, 
and  3  or  4  stalks  celery.  Add  1  bay  leaf,  a  few  sprigs 
parsley,  and  cook  about  one  hour  in  enough  water  to 
prevent  burning.  Strain  through  a  colander;  add 
stock  to  make  2  quarts,  reheat,  add  butter,  a  little 
sugar,  and  seasoning  to  taste.  When  boiling,  thicken 
with  1  teaspoon  cornstarch  dissolved  in  a  little  cold 
water. 

70.  Vegetable  Soup 

Groups  M.— St.  S.  P.  F. 

Cut  into  small  pieces  celery  stalks,  cabbage  leaves, 
1  small  onion,  parsley,  cauliflower,  and  any  other  non- 
starchy  vegetable  you  may  have  on  hand.  To  1  cup 
vegetables  add  1  tomato  and  a  few  green  peas.  Cook 
in  water  about  thirty  minutes.  Add  1  or  2  potatoes 
and  1  carrot  cut  into  small  dice.  Cook  until  potatoes 
are  soft,  season  to  taste,  and  serve. 


71.  Puree  of  Vegetables 

Groups  M.  S.  St— P.  F. 

Cut  into  pieces  and  cook  together  in  water  enough 
to  prevent  burning,  1  carrot,  1  turnip,  1  parsnip,  2 
potatoes,  1  stalk  celery,  2  tomatoes,  and  a  small  hand- 
ful chopped  parsley.  "When  thoroughly  done,  mash 
through  a  colander,  add  stock  to  make  2  quarts,  reheat, 
add  butter,  and  season  to  taste. 


SOUPS  59 

whole  cinnamon,  the  juice  and  rind  of  2  lemons,  and 
sugar  to  taste.     Cook  until  the  sago  is  clear. 

86.  Gooseberry  Soup 

Groups  M.  St.  S. 

Pick  and  wash  1  quart  of  gooseberries  and  cook  in 
3  pints  water  until  nearly  soft.  Add  3  tablespoons 
of  sago  or  tapioca;  let  cook  until  sago  is  clear,  and 
sweeten  to  taste. 

87.  Grape  Soup 

Groups  S.  M.  St.— F. 

Cook  2  quarts  of  Concord  grapes,  picked  from  the 
stems,  in  water  enough  to  cover  well,  about  thirty 
minutes.  Strain,  add  ^/o  cup  sago,  and  sugar  to 
taste.  Let  cook  until  sago  is  clear.  If  necessary,  add 
water  to  make  2  quarts.  Serve  with  squares  of  but- 
tered toast. 

88.  Lemon  Soup 

Groups  M.  F.  P.— S.  St 

Add  the  juice  of  4  lemons  and  the  grated  peel  of  1 
lemon,  to  2  quarts  of  water.  When  boiling,  thicken 
with  iy2  tablespoons  cornstarch  dissolved  in  a  little 
cold  water;  cook  about  five  minutes.  Beat  the  yolks 
of  3  eggs  and  1  cup  sugar  until  light  and  foamy.  Over 
this  pour  slowly  the  boiling  lemon  soup,  stirring  con- 
stantly in  one  direction. 

89.  Rhubarb  Soup 

Groups  M.  r.  P.— S.  St. 

Cook  4  cups  rhubarb,  which  has  been  cut  into  inch- 
long  pieces,  the  juice  of  1  lemon,  and  4  pints  of  water 


60  NATURE   CURE   COOK   BOOK 

until  soft,  liub  through  an  enameled  colander  and 
reheat.  When  boiling,  add  1  tablespoonful  cornstarch, 
dissolved  in  a  little  cold  water.  Beat  well  the  yolks 
of  2  eggs  with  1  cup  sugar.  Pour  over  this  the  boiling 
rhubarb  soup,  stirring  constantly  in  one  direction. 
Add  more  sugar  if  necessary.  Beat  well  the  whites  of 
the  eggs  with  1  tablespoon  of  powdered  sugar.  Heap 
in  little  mounds  on  the  soup  before  serving. 

UNCOOKED    SOUPS 

Note: — ^For  those  readers  who  wish  to  adhere  to  a 
strictly  uncooked  diet,  we  have  added  a  few  recipes  of 
soups  made  from  vegetables  and  fruits  without  the  use 
of  fire  in  their  preparation. 

As  will  be  noticed,  it  is  possible  to  make  combina- 
tions and  have  variety  just  as  well  as  in  cooked  soups. 
Honey  has  been  used  in  preference  to  the  commercial 
sugar,  because  the  latter  is  not  an  "uncooked"  prod- 
uct. Furthermore,  honey  imparts  a  distinct  flavor  to 
the  food  which  greatly  improves  it.  It  will  also  be 
found  that,  by  using  vegetables  in  the  uncooked  state, 
the  desire  for  salt  is  greatly  lessened. 

Fruits  and  vegetables  containing  acid  are  liable  to 
form  poisonous  compounds  with  the  metal  in  tin  or 
copper  vessels  and  granite  ware  in  which  the  enamel 
has  been  cracked.  It  is  therefore  advisable  to  use 
aluminum  vessels  or  porcelain-lined  vessels  and  uten- 
sils. 

90.  Banana  Soup 

Groups  F.  P.  S.— St.  M. 

Into  6  ounces  flaked  nuts,  (preferably  pine  nuts  or 
Spanish  peanuts)  stir  the  juice  of  1  lemon.  Let  stand 
about  fifteen  minutes.    Add  4  ripe  bananas,  macerated 


SOUPS  61 

with  a  silver  fork,  and  1  grated  apple.  Beat  well  to- 
gether, flavor  with  cinnamon,  nutmeg,  anise  seed,  or  a 
pinch  of  ginger,  as  preferred;  sweeten  with  honey. 
Add  1  quart  hot  water  and  serve  in  heated  bowls. 

91.  Cream  of  Apple 

Groups  M.  F.  P.  S. 

Grate  3  apples  (do  not  remove  parings),  add  6  ounces 
flaked  pine  nuts  or  Spanish  peanuts,  flavor  with  cinna- 
mon or  nutmeg  and  sweeten  with  honey.  Beat  together 
until  creamy.    Add  1  quart  hot  (not  boiling)  water. 

Note : — Heat  the  bowls  before  serving,  or  place  them 
in  larger  bowls  containing  hot  water. 

92.  Cream  of  Cabbage 

Groups  M.  F.  P. 

Chop  very  fine  enough  crisp,  tender  cabbage  leaves 
to  make  2  cupfuls.  Add  6  ounces  flaked  nuts  and  rub 
together  with  a  wooden  masher  until  thoroughly 
blended.  Add  1  teaspoon  ground  caraway  seed  and  a 
pinch  of  ginger  or  paprika.  Let  stand  about  fifteen 
minutes.  Stir  into  the  mixture  1  tablespoon  olive  oil 
or  peanut  oil  and  1  egg,  well  beaten  together.  Add  1 
quart  hot  (not  boiling)  water.    Serve  in  heated  bowls. 

93.  Cream  of  Peas  and  Carrots 

Groups  S.  M.  F.  P.— St, 

Mix  thoroughly  1  cup  tender  green  peas,  flaked  like 
nuts,  1  cup  grated  carrots,  a  little  parsley  or  marjoram, 
chopped  very  fine,  1  cup  cucumber  juice,  1  cup  rhubarb 
juice,  and  2  ounces  flaked  nuts.  Add  2  tablespoons 
olive  oil,  a  little  honey,  if  desired,  and  beat  well;  add 


62  NATURE   CURE   COOK   BOOK 

water  to  make  2  quarts '(hot  or  cold).    If  hot  water  is 
used,  serve  in  heated  bowls. 

94-  Cream  of  Celery 

Groups  M.  F.  P. 

Follow  the  directions  for  Cream  of  Cabbage,  recipe 
No.  92,  substituting  celery  for  cabbage. 

95.  Cream  of  Corn 

Groups  S.  M.  F.  P. 

Beat  well  together,  sweet  com  grated  from  the  cobs 
to  make  2  cups,  grated  radishes  or  young  white  turnips 
to  make  1  cup,  1  teaspoon  onion  juice,  finely  chopped 
parsley,  2  tablespoons  olive  oil,  1  quart  milk  (either 
hot  or  cold) ;  add  the  olive  oil  last,  and  the  milk  just 
before  serving. 

96.  Cream  of  Tomato 

Groups  M.  F.  P. 

Peel  6  or  8  tomatoes,  cut  them  into  pieces  and  mace- 
rate with  a  silver  fork.  Add  6  ounces  flaked  nuts, 
flavor  with  parsley  or  other  herbs,  and  add  2  table- 
spoons olive  oil.  Heat  by  placing  in  a  vessel  contain- 
ing boiling  water,  and  serve  in  heated  bowls. 

97.  Corn  Soup 

Groups  M.  F.  S.  P. 

Beat  well  together  1  cup  sweet  com  grated  from  the 
cob,  1  cup  tomato  pulp,  and  1  cup  each  tomato  juice 
and  cucumber  juice.  Add  6  ounces  flaked  nuts  and 
finely  chopped  parsley  or  thyme.  Let  stand  about 
fifteen  minutes.    Add  1  tablespoon  olive  oil,  beat  all 


SOUPS  63 

well  together,  and  add  1  pint  hot  water.     Serve  in 
heated  bowls. 


98.  Oatmeal  Fruit  Soup 

Groups  M.  S.  St.  P.  F. 

Stir  together,  3  pints  fruit  juice  (which  may  be  ob- 
tained by  pressing  grapes,  juicy  berries,  cherries, 
peaches,  apples,  etc.,  through  a  fruit  press,  or  by  soak- 
ing dried  prunes  or  peaches  in  water  for  forty-eight 
hours),  1/2  pint  orange  juice,  and  1  pint  rolled  oats  or 
wheat.  Let  stand  about  ten  minutes.  Add  2  table- 
spoons olive  oil,  sweeten  with  honey  as  required,  beat 
well,  and  serve.    Use  only  aluminum  or  silver  spoons. 

99.  Ehubarb  Soup 

Groups  M.  St.  F.  P.  S. 

To  1  cup  rolled  oats  or  wheat,  soaked  ia  an  equal 
amount  of  water  for  about  three  hours,  add  1  cup 
flaked  nuts.  Mix  thoroughly  with  3  pints  rhubarb 
juice,  obtained  by  grating  the  fresh  stalks  and  pressing 
the  pulp  through  a  fruit  press.  Add  honey  to  taste, 
and  1  tablespoon  olive  oil.  Let  stand  about  fifteen  min- 
utes before  serving. 

100.  Tomato  Soup 

Groups  M.  F.  S. 

Peel  6  or  8  tomatoes  and  chip  them  into  small  chunks. 
Add  some  finely  chopped  celery,  and,  if  desired,  thyme 
or  parsley.  Add  honey  to  taste,  and  about  2  table- 
spoons oUve  oiL    Let  stand  a  while  before  aervinfif. 


64  NATURE   CURE   COOK   BOOK 

ACCESSORIES  TO  SOTJPS 

101.  Bread  Sticks 

Groups  St.  P. 

When  making  bread,  take  some  of  the  dough  that  is 
ready  to  be  placed  in  the  pans  for  the  last  rising,  and 
roll  into  "sticks"  about  half  an  inch  thick  and  four 
inches  long.  Drop  the  sticks  carefully  into  salted,  boil- 
ing water,  let  boil  hard  for  two  minutes,  lift  out  with 
a  skimmer;  drain,  and  place  in  shallow,  buttered  bak- 
ing tins.  Bake  immediately  in  a  very  hot  oven  until 
golden  brown. 

102.  Croutons 

Groups  St.  P. 

Cut  stale  bread  into  small  dice.  Brown  in  a  frying 
pan  or  in  the  hot  oven  with  a  little  butter,  stirring  fre- 
quently to  insure  browning  on  all  sides. 

103.  Egg  Beans 

Groups  P.  F.  St. 

Beat  1  egg  slightly,  add  V2  teaspoon  salt  and  %  cup 
flour,  and  stir  in  2  tablespoons  milk;  pour  through  a 
colander  into  hot  oil  or  equal  parts  oil  and  butter;  let 
the  bean-shaped  drops  of  dough  fry  until  golden  brown, 
then  drain  on  soft  paper  or  a  clean  muslin  cloth..  Serve 
cold  with  soup. 

104.  Mandln 

Groups  P.  F.  St. 

Beat  1  egg  slightly,  add  a  pinch  of  salt  and  1  cup 
flour.  Mix  well  into  a  stiff  batter,  put  on  a  board 
sprinkled  with  flour  and  roll  out  like  noodle  dough. 


SOUPS  65 

Leave  on  board  to  dry  for  about  thirty  minutes,  then 
cut  discs  from  the  dough  with  a  round  cutter  or  thim- 
ble, put  into  a  buttered  baking  pan  and  brown  quickly 
in  a  hot  oven.  Serve  cold  with  soup,  or  they  may  be 
cooked  in  the  soup  like  noodles.  Stars,  crescents,  dia- 
monds, or  other  fancy  shapes  may  be  cut  from  the 
dough  Avith  a  sharp,  pointed  knife. 

105.  Noodles 

Groups  P.  F.  St. 

To  2  eggs,  well-beaten,  add  2  tablespoons  cold  water 
and  enough  flour  to  make  a  very  stiff  dough.  Roll  out 
as  thin  as  a  wafer  and  dredge  slightly  with  flour.  Let 
dry  for  half  an  hour,  then  either  roll,  or  cut  into  strips 
about  two  inches  wide,  laying  one  on  top  of  the  other. 
Cut  into  fine  threads  (guiding  the  knife  by  keeping  the 
fingers  of  the  left  hand  against  it,  at  the  same  time 
pushing  the  dough  forward).  Shake  loose  and  keep  on 
stiff  paper  in  a  dry  place  until  needed. 

106.  Delicious  Noodles 

Groups  P.  F.  St. 

Sift  1  quart  flour;  beat  into  it  4  eggs,  one  by  one, 
and  1  teaspoon  salt.  Mix  well,  divide  into  four  equal 
parts,  roll  very  thin,  let  dry  for  about  an  hour.  Make 
into  rolls  and  proceed  as  in  the  foregoing  recipe. 

Note : — Do  not  use  milk  or  water  in  making  these 
noodles. 

107.  French  Dumplings 

Groups  F.  St.  P.— M. 

Cook  together  y^  cup  butter  and  1  cup  water;  when 
boiling,  sift  into  it  1  cup  flour,  stirring  constantly  until 


66  NATURE   CURE   COOK  BOOK 

the  mixture  slips  from  the  spoon;  let  cool,  and  add  3 
well-beaten  eggs;  shape  into  dumplings  ■with  a  silver 
dessertspoon,  drop  into  boiling  water,  cover  closely, 
and  let  cook  three  minutes;  take  out  with  a  skimmer, 
one  at  a  time,  and  put  into  SOUp,  being  careful  not  to 
break  the  dumplings. 


SALADS 

Key  to  reference  letters:  St.  (Starches).  S.  (Sugars).  P. 
(Fats).     P.  (Proteids).     M.  (Mineral  Elements). 

The  leafy,  juicy  vegetables  are  most  beneficial  when 
eaten  raw,  prepared  with  lemon  juice  and  olive  oil. 
Never  use  vinegar  or  pepper  and  salt  with  raw  vege- 
tables. Lemon  juice  is  the  most  delicious  substitute 
for  vinegar.  Vinegar,  a  product  of  fermentation,  is  a 
powerful  antiseptic  and  preservative.  It  is  useful  for 
preserving  food  in  the  pantry,  but  it  is  not  advisable 
to  preserve  the  food  in  our  stomachs.  Vinegar  retards 
digestion,  lemon  juice  promotes  it.  An  exception  to 
this  is  the  digestion  of  the  starches  in  the  stomach 
which  is  somewhat  retarded  by  acid  fruit  and  vegetable 
juices.  Mayonnaise  and  French  dressings  should  be 
prepared  with  lemon  juice  instead  of  vinegar. 

Every  meal  should  contain  a  considerable  proportion 
of  uncooked  fruits  and  vegetables,  which  are  best 
served  in  the  form  of  tempting  salads.  However,  we 
have  not  confined  ourselves  to  salads  made  from  raw 
fruits  and  vegetables,  because  we  wish  to  make  our 
cook  book  thoroughly  practical  in  the  average  home 
and  thereby  insure  its  greatest  possible  usefulness. 

In  the  summer  time  salads  should  take  the  place,  to 
a  large  extent,  of  soups  and  cooked  foods.  For 
luncheon,  an  appetizing  fruit  or  vegetable  salad  with 
whole  grain  bread  and,  if  desired,  a  glass  of  milk  or 
fruit  juice,  will  be  found  fully  satisfying  and  sufficient 
for  the  brain  worker,  as  well  as  for  those  engaged  in 
physical  labor. 

67 


68  NATURE    CURE    COOK    BOOK 

There  are  certain  rules  regarding  the  preparation  of 
salads  which  should  be  observed  under  all  circum- 
stances : 

(1)  Strong  condiments  and  spices  should  not  be  used 
at  all  or  very  sparingly  only.  They  over-stimulate  and 
thereby  irritate  the  digestive  organs,  the  nerves  and 
sex  centers,  interfere  with  proper  digestion  and  assimi- 
lation, and  thus  result  in  a  corresponding  -degree  of 
weakness  which  affects  the  entire  organism. 

(2)  Lemon  juice  should  be  used  instead  of  vinegar, 
especially  in  the  preparation  of  raw  food  salads,  for 
reasons  before  stated. 

(3)  Seasoning  and  dressing  should  be  added  at  the 
last  moment,  just  before  serving. 

A  simple  and  effective  way  to  prepare  a  salad  is  to 
arrange  crisp  lettuce  leaves  on  a  plate  or  platter  and 
on  these  put  the  ingredients  of  the  salad,  such  as 
chopped  or  diced  fruits  and  vegetables,  either  mixed 
together  or  in  sections.  The  dressing  may  be  mixed 
with  the  ingredients  or  added  separately.  Generally, 
cream  dressing  or  whipped  cream  is  used  with  fruit 
salads,  and  mayonnaise  or  French  dressing  with  those 
composed  of  vegetables.  Chopped  or  ground  nuts, 
minced  parsley,  shredded  green  peppers  or  pimentoes, 
sprinkled  over  the  salad,  add  to  its  attractiveness, 
flavor  and  nutritive  value.  Eipe  olives,  small  radishes, 
or  grapes  halved  and  seeded,  may  be  used  as  gar- 
nishes. 

Sliced  hard-boiled  eggs  or  ripe  olives  are  a  suitable 
garnish  for  a  vegetable  salad,  while  large,  perfect  rasp- 
berries or  blackberries  go  well  with  fruit  salads.  If 
apples  or  pears  are  used  they  should  be  served  imme- 
diately or  placed  in  cold  water  imtil  needed,  to  prevent 
discoloration. 


SALADS  69 

108.  Alligator  Salad 

Groups  M.  F.  P.— S. 

Peel  large  pears,  cut  into  lengthwise  slices  and  stick 
about  4  or  5  blanched  almonds  in  each  slice.  Arrange 
in  circle  on  lettuce  leaves  and  serve  with  mayonnaise 
dressing. 

109.  Almond  and  Pineapple  Salad 

Groups  M.  F.  P. 

To  every  2  cups  of  pineapple,  cut  into  small  dice,  add 
1  cup  of  chopped  celery  and  1  cup  of  almonds,  either 
whole,  chopped  or  flaked.  Serve  on  shredded  lettuce 
or  romaine  with  whipped  cream,  or  mix  with  mayon- 
naise No.  1,  and  put  a  spoonful  of  whipped  cream  on 
top.    Garnish  with  cherries. 

110.  Stuffed  Apples 

Groups  M.  F. — P. 

Core  ripe,  red  apples,  scoop  out  the  centers,  mix  with 
chopped  celery,  English  walnuts,  and  finely  shredded 
pimentoes,  moisten  well  with  mayonnaise,  and  fill  the 
apple  shells.  Put  a  teaspoon  of  unsweetened  whipped 
cream  on  top  of  each.    Serve  on  lettuce  leaves. 

111.  Asparagus  Salad 

Groups  M. — F. 

Stew  slowly  1  cup  each,  finely  chopped  onions  and 
celery  in  1  cup  each  lemon  juice  and  water,  until  most 
of  the  liquid  is  absorbed;  add  1  large  tablespoon  but- 
ter, stir  until  dissolved,  then  Dour  over  asparagus, 
arranged  on  lettuce  leaves. 


70  NATURE  CURE   COOK  BOOK 

112.  Attractive  Salad 

Groups  M.— P.  F. 

Rub  Neufchatel  or  cottage  cheese  to  a  paste  with  a 
little  cream.  Add  grated  onion,  chopped  nuts  and 
finely  cut  boiled  beets.  Fill  pimentoes  or  sweet  pep- 
pers and  serve  garnished  with  lettuce  leaves. 

113.  Banana  and  Berry  Salad 

Groups  S.  St.  M.— F. 

Quarter  bananas  lengthwise,  then  slice.  Mix  with  an 
equal  amount  of  berries  or  grapes  cut  in  half  and  serve 
at  once  with  whipped  cream.  If  desired,  sprinkle  with 
chopped  nuts. 

Apples  cut  in  small  chips  or  dice  will  improve  the 
salad  for  those  who  enjoy  a  tart  flavor. 

114.  Banana  and  Nut  Salad 

Groups  S.  St.  F.  P.— M. 

Peel  and  halve  lengthwise,  small,  ripe  bananas,  dip 
in  mayonnaise  and  roll  in  ground  walnuts  or  pecans. 
Place  two  on  a  lettuce  leaf  with  a  tablespoon  of 
whipped  cream.    Garnish  with  ripe  olives. 

115.  Beet  Salad  (1) 

Groups  M.  S.  St.--F.  P. 

1  quart  chopped  beets,  1  cup  chopped  cabbage,  1 
grated,  raw  horseradish,  1  cup  sugar  and  a  little  salt 
and  lemon  juice  to  suit  taste.  Mix  well  and  garnish 
with  hard-boiled  eggs;  serve  on  lettuce  leaves  with 
cream  dressing. 


SALADS  71 

116.  Beet  Salad  (2) 

Groups  S.  St.  i/L—F. 

Boil  nice  beets.  When  cool,  cut  in  fine  strips  and 
serve  on  lettuce  or  tender  cabbage  leaves  with  mayon- 
naise No.  2.  Sprinkle  with  ground  nuts  or  finely- 
shredded  sweet  green  peppers. 

The  beets  may  be  sliced  one-fourth  inch  thick  and 
cut  into  different  shapes  with  fancy  cutters. 

117.  Stuffed  Beet  Salad 

Groups  M.  S.  St.— F.  P. 

Cook  beets  of  equal  size.  When  cold,  skin  and  cut 
off  at  one  end,  so  that  they  will  stand.  Scoop  out  cen- 
ters carefully,  fill  cavities  with  equal  parts  of  cabbage 
and  celery,  chopped  fine  and  moistened  with  French 
dressing.  Put  a  teaspoon  of  unsweetened  whipped 
cream  on  top  and  sprinkle  with  ground  pistachio  nuts. 
Arrange  young  beet  leaves  so  that  the  stems  will  form 
a  square  place,  with  beets  in  center. 

118.  Bouquet  Salad 

Groups  M-  F.— S.  St. 

Boil  nice,  white  cauliflower  in  salted  water  thirty 
minutes.  Let  drain  and  when  cold,  divide  into  siuall 
branches.  Arrange  in  salad  bowl  and  garnish  with 
pickled  beets  and  Spanish  pimento.  Pour  mayonnaise 
dressing  over  and  serve. 

119.  Cabbage  Caps 

Groups  M.  P. 

Cut  or  chop  fine,  equal  portions  of  cabbage,  apples 
and  celery,  moisten  with  mayonnaise  or  French  dress- 


72  NATURE   CURE   COOK  BOOK 

ing.    Serve  in  the  cup-like  leaves  found  near  the  heart 
of  the  cabbage. 

120.  Cabbage  Salad 

Groups  M.  F. — P. 

Chop  fine  1  small  head  of  cabbage,  celery  to  make 
1  pint,  and  1  Spanish  onion.  If  desired,  add  1  cup  of 
coarsely  ground  or  flaked  peanuts.  Mix  well  with 
equal  parts  of  lemon  juice  and  olive  oil  and  serve  on 
lettuce  leaves. 

121.  Piquant  Red  Cabbage  Salad 

Groups  M.  F.  P. 

Mix  1  Neufchatel  or  Philadelphia  cream  cheese  with 
1  small  red  sweet  pepper,  shredded  very  fine ;  add  1  cup 
chopped  celery  and  2  cups  new  red  cabbage,  chopped 
or  shredded ;  moisten  with  a  little  cream,  and  serve  on 
tender  leaves  of  white  cabbage  with  mayonnaise  or 
sauce  HoUandaise. 

122.  Shredded  Cabbage  Salad 

Groups  M.  F. 

Shred  a  small  head  of  white  cabbage  and  put  it  in 
cold  water  for  one  hour.  Drain  thoroughly  and  mix 
with  a  dressing  made  of  1  cup  whipped  cream,  a  pinch 
of  cayenne  pepper,  a  little  salt,  1  teaspoon  sugar  and 
juice  of  1  lemon.  Serve  at  once,  garnished  with  ripe 
olives. 

123.  Cabbage  and  Apple  Salad 

Groups  M.  F. — P. 

Chop  together  a  small  head  of  cabbage  and  y^  c"cip 
nuts,  add  about  3  good-sized  apples,  cut  into  dice.    Mix 


SALADS  73 

well  with  dressing  and  serve  on  lettuce  leaves,  or  ar- 
range on  a  platter  with  a  border  of  water  cress. 

124.  Cabbage  and  Nut  Salad 

Groups  M.  F. — P. 

Chop  fine  %  head  of  tender  cabbage,  let  stand  in  cold 
water  for  about  1  hour,  drain.  Add  l^  the  amount  of 
finely  cut  celery,  1  cup  of  chopped  nuts,  1  small  minced 
onion,  and  a  dash  of  red  pepper.  Mix  with  cream  salad 
dressing  and  serve  garnished  with  ripe  olives  or  pimen- 
toes. 

125.  California  Salad 

Groups  M.  F. — ^P. 

Split  in  halves  2  nice,  full  heads  of  lettuce,  place  in 
water  for  half  an  hour,  inner  surface  down  to  extract 
insects.  Wash  carefully  and  drain.  Remove  a  few  of 
the  inside  leaves,  and  fill  the  hollow  with  chips  of 
orange  and  grapefruit.  Along  the  edges  place  alter- 
nately Malaga  and  Concord  »grapes,  split  in  halves  and 
seeded.  Sprinkle  finely  chopped  nuts  on  top,  and  in 
the  center  place  a  cherry.  Serve  with  mayonnaise  or 
French  dressing. 

Instead  of  the  lettuce,  large  apples  or  pears  may  be 
used  as  a  foundation. 

126.  Calcutta  Salad 

Groups  M.— St.  P.  F.  8. 

On  lettuce  leaves  serve  equal  parts  of  diced  apples, 
shredded  head  lettuce  and  cooked  lima  beans,  well 
mixed  with  mayonnaise  dressing.  Garnish  with  white 
grapes,  halved  and  seeded. 


74  NATURE   CURE   COOK  BOOK 

127.  Cantaloupe  Salad  (1) 

Groups  M.  S.— F. 

Cut  cantaloupes  in  strips,  remove  seeds,  peel,  cut  into 
dice  and  serve  on  lettuce  with  mayonnaise  or  whipped 
cream. 

128.  Cantaloupe  Salad  (2) 

Groups  M.  S.— F.  P. 

Pare  a  sweet  cantaloupe  and  remove  the  seeds,  cut 
in  thick  strips  and  serve  on  lettuce  leaves  with  a 
French  dressing.  Force  cream  cheese  through  a  ricer 
and  sprinkle  liberally. 

129.  Carrot  Salad 

Groups  M.  F.  P. 

Grate  raw  carrots,  mix  with  pine  nuts  or  sprinkle 
with  ground  almonds,  serve  on  lettuce  leaves  garnished 
with  ripe  olives.    Place  a  section  of  lemon  on  each  plate. 

130.  Cauliflower  Salad 

Groups  M.  F.  P. 

Divide  a  head  of  cooked  cauliflower  into  small  flowers 
of  equal  size.  Arrange  on  a  platter,  cover  with  mayon- 
naise, to  which  finely  minced  parsley  has  been  added. 
Make  a  border  of  slices  or  sections  of  hard-boiled  eggs 
and  garnish  with  lettuce  hearts  or  sprays  of  parsley 
and  ripe  olives. 

131.  Celery  Salad 

Groups  M.  F.  P. 

1  pint  celery,  chopped  or  diced,  1  cup  chopped  al- 
mends,  2  tablespoons  shredded  pimentoes.    Mix  with 


SALADS  75 

thin  mayonnaise  or  sour  cream.    Serve  on  lettuce  gar- 
nished with  ripe  olives  or  sections  of  tomatoes. 

132.  Celery  and  Almond  Salad 

Groups  M.  F.  P. 

Mix  1  Clip  minced  celery  with  i/^  cup  shredded  al- 
monds and  1  teaspoon  minced  pimento;  soften  with 
cream;  serve  with  mayonnaise. 

133.  Celery  and  Cheese  Salad 

Groups  M.  F.  P. 

Mash  1  cup  cream  cheese  with  a  little  sweet  cream 
until  smooth.  Mix  with  1  cup  of  chopped  celery.  Sea- 
son and  mold  into  little  balls.  Roll  in  nut  meats.  Serve 
on  lettuce  leaves  with  French  dressing. 

134.  Celery  and  Orange  Salad 

Groups  M.  F.  P. 

1  cup  chopped  celery,  1  cup  chopped  English  wal- 
nuts, 1  of  orange  cut  in  cubes ;  serve  with  sweet  cream 
dressing. 

135.  Stuffed  Celery  Salad 

Groups  M.  r.  P. 

Select  the  rounded,  inside  stalks  of  celery,  cut  in 
four-inch  lengths  and  lay  in  cold  water  until  required, 
to  make  crisp  and  firm.  Drain,  wipe  dry  and  fill  with 
Neufchatel  or  Philadelphia  cream  cheese,  rubbed  to  a 
soft  paste  with  cream  and  seasoned  to  taste  with  pa- 
prika and  onion  juice.  Sers'e  cold  with  mayonnaise,  gar- 
nish with  lettuce  hearts. 


76  NATURE   CURE   COOK  BOOK 

136.  Salad  Celestial 

Groups  M.  F.  P. 

Cut  2  pears  into  dice,  add  juice  of  1  lime,  let  stand 
about  one  hour.  Add  2  cucumbers  and  1  small  nutmeg 
melon,  diced.  Mix  well  with  a  good  French  dressing. 
Serve  on  lettuce  leaves,  garnished  with  asparagus  tips. 

137.  Cheese  Salad  (1) 

Groups  M.  F.  P. 

Rub  1  Neufchatel  or  Philadelphia  cream  cheese  to  a 
smooth  paste  with  1  tablespoon  of  melted  butter;  add 
3  or  4  tablespoons  of  sour  cream.  Spread  over  russet 
apples  cut  ill  halves,  pared  and  cored,  and  arranged  on 
lettuce. 

138.  Cheese  Salad  (2) 

Groups  P.  F.  M. 

Form  little  balls  of  cottage  or  cream  cheese,  roll  in 
ground  walnuts;  place  several  balls  on  a  nice,  crisp 
lettuce  leaf,  with  a  spoonful  of  mayonnaise;  sprinkle 
chopped  parsley  or  finely  shredded  green  sweet  pepper 
over  the  whole. 

139.  Piquant  Cheese  Salad 

Groups  P.  F.  M. 

Add  4  tablespoons  of  cream  to  2  Neufchatel 
cheeses,  also  10  drops  of  onion  juice,  and  a  little  pa- 
prika; mix  weU,  form  into  a  roll  and  put  on  ice  to 
harden;  cut  in  slices  and  arrange  on  a  platter,  cover 
with  strips  of  pimento,  and  garnish  with  lettuce  hearts 
or  small  sprays  of  water  cress. 


SALADS  77 

140.  Cheese  and  Pineapple  Salad 

Groups  P.  M.  F. 

To  1  cup  of  cottage  cheese,  add  an  equal  amount  of 
pineapple  cut  into  cubes  j  serve  on  lettuce  leaves  with 
mayonnaise  or  French  dressing. 

141.  Cheese  and  Date  Salad 

Groups  S.  P. — M.  F. 

Stone  dates,  fill  cavities  with  cream  cheese;  arrange 
on  a  bed  of  finely  chopped  celery  or  cabbage;  serve 
with  French  dressing. 

Soaked  prunes  may  be  served  in  this  manner. 

142.  Cherry  Salad 

Groups  M.  F.  P. 

Heat  1  pint  of  cherry  juice  to  boiling;  dissolve  1 
tablespoon  powdered  gelatin  in  part  of  the  juice,  then 
add  the  remainder  of  the  juice.  When  the  jelly  begins 
to  thicken  add  2  cups  of  pitted  cherries,  1  dozen 
pimento  olives  (stuffed  olives)  cut  in  rings,  1  small 
cup  diced  celery,  and  i/^  cup  chopped  black  walnuts. 
Pour  into  a  mold  which  has  been  rinsed  with  cold 
water.  When  ready  to  serve,  cut  into  slices  and  ar- 
range on  lettuce  leaves,  cover  with  mayonnaise  to 
which  whipped  cream  has  been  added. 

Individual  molds  may  be  used. 

143.  A  Simple  Chestnut  Salad 

Groups  F.  P.  M. 
Blanch,  peel  and  quarter  3  dozen  large  chestnuts, 
peel  and  dice  4  tart  apples;  mix  well  with  French 
dressing  or  mayonnaise;  serve  in  a  salad  bowl  lined 
with  lettuce  leaves  or  romaine. 


78  NATUEE   CUBE   COOK  BOOK 

144.  Cleopatra  Salad 

Groups  St.  S.  P.  M.— F. 

Mix  together  equal  parts  cooked  lima  beans,  green 
peas,  beets  and  potatoes,  cut  into  dice,  corn  from  the 
cob,  and  a  few  shreds  of  red  sweet  pepper.  Serve  on 
tender  cabbage  leaves  with  French  dressing. 

145.  Com  Salad 

Groups  St.  M.  S.— F. 

Cut  sweet  com  from  the  cob,  mix  with  an  equal 
amount  of  cooked  rice;  mix  with  mayonnaise  dressing 
and  serve  heaped  on  sliced  tomatoes. 

146.  Cream  Slaw 

Groups  M.  F.— P.  S. 

Shred  1  cabbage  very  £ne,  then  sprinkle  with  salt, 
a  little  minced  sweet  pepper  and  mustard;  put  1  cup 
of  lemon  juice  mixed  with  water  into  a  stewpan;  add 
1  cup  sour  cream,  i^  cup  sugar,  1  teaspoon  flour,  2 
eggs,  1  tablespoon  butter  and  a  little  salt;  let  cook  to 
boiling  point,  stirring  constantly.  Pour  over  the  cab- 
bage while  hot  and  serve  at  once. 

147.  Cucumber  and  Nut  Salad 

Groups  M.  P. 

Pare  medium-sized  cucumbers,  lay  in  cold  water  for 
an  hour,  cut  in  halves  (remove  seeds  if  large  and  hard), 
fill  cavity  with  chopped  nuts,  mixed  with  grated  cheese, 
and  along  the  center  sprinkle  finely  minced  parsley. 
Serve  two  halves  on  a  plate  with  a  spray  of  water  cress 
and  a  section  of  lemon  at  each  end. 


SALADS  79 

148.  Daisy  Salad 

Groups  P.  F. — ^M. 

Cut  two-inch  rounds  of  cream  or  Neufchatel  cheese, 
one-half  inch  in  thickness,  and  place  on  crisp  lettuce 
leaves;  put  grated  hard-boiled  egg  yolk  in  center  of 
each.    Serve  dressing  in  separate  bowl. 

149.  Dandelion  Mint  Salad 

Groups  M.  F. 

Arrange  the  dandelion  leaves  on  plates  and  sprinkle 
with  finely  chopped  mint;  serve  with  French  dressing, 
and  add  a  spoonful  of  chopped  chives. 

150.  Dandelion  and  Orange  Salad 

Groups  M.  F.  P. 

Wash  the  dandelion  leaves  in  very  cold  water  to 
make  them  crisp;  cut  into  shreds  with  scissors;  peel 
and  chip  sweet  oranges  in  proportions  of  1  orange  to 
each  cup  of  shredded  dandelion. 

For  a  dressing,  rub  the  salad  bowl  with  a  piece  of 
garlic,  cut  a  stalk  of  leek  into  fine  rings,  add  a  little 
salt,  a  dash  of  cayenne  pepper,  and  2  tablespoons  olive 
oil.  Stir  well,  add  the  orange  and  dandelion,  toss  to- 
gether with  a  wooden  fork  and  spoon.  Cover  with 
sliced  hard-boiled  eggs.  This  salad  should  be  served 
as  soon  as  mixed. 

151.  Eggs  and  Cheese  Salad 

Groups  F.  P.  M. 

On  lettuce  leaves  arranged  on  a  platter,  put  a  layer 
of  sliced  hard-boiled  eggs.     Grate  over  this  a  thick 


80  NATURE   CURE   COOK   BOOK 

covering  of  cheese,  sprinkle  with  chopped  pecans,  or, 
if  preferred,  finely  chopped  pickles.  Garnish  with  ripe 
tomatoes,  cut  into  sections;  serve  with  mayonnaise. 

152.  Virginia  Salad 

Groups  M.  F.  P. 

Peel  and  cut  in  half  nice  ripe  peaches;  remove  seed, 
fill  cavity  with  Neufchatel  or  cream  cheese,  shaped 
into  balls  and  rolled  in  chopped  nuts;  arrange  on 
lettuce  and  serve  with  mayonnaise  or  French  dressing. 

153.  Endive  Salad 

Groups  M.  F. 

Use  only  the  tender,  -white  leaves.  Wash  in  very 
cold  water  to  make  them  crisp ;  drain  and  cut  fine.  Mix 
well  with  French  dressing  made  rather  sweet,  or  with 
cream  dressing. 

154.  Ensalada  Mixta  (Cuban  Salad) 

Groups  M.  F.  P. 

On  crisp  lettuce  leaves  serve  a  mixture  of  cooked 
string  beans  and  asparagus,  cut  into  bits,  slices  of  raw 
onions  and  radishes,  shreds  of  green  sweet  peppers, 
and  hard-boiled  eggs,  sliced  or  chopped.  Serve  with 
French  dressing. 

155.  Favorite  Raw  Food  Salad 

Groups  M.  S.  F.  P. 

Grind  fine  in  a  vegetable  grinder  1  stalk  celery,  1 
sweet  potato,  1  carrot,  1  large  apple,  1  small  yellow 
turnip,  1  beet,  1  cup  each  seeded  raisins,  English  wal- 


SALADS  81 

nuts  and  pecans.  Into  the  mixture  stir  1  cup  of  olive 
oil  and  let  stand  four  or  five  hours,  then  add  the  juice 
of  2  lemons.    Mix  well  and  serve  on  shredded  lettuce. 

156.  Florida  Salad 

Groups  M.  S.  F. 

Peel  and  slice  4  pears,  2  tomatoes,  1  green  pepper; 
add  1  cup  green  peas;  mix  with  a  cream  dressing  and 
serve  on  lettuce  leaves. 

157.  French  Salad  (1) 

Groups  M.  F.  P.— S. 

2  cups  grated  carrots,  1  tablespoon  capers,  3  hard- 
boiled  eggs  grated,  and  a  little  minced  pimento.  Mix 
thoroughly  with  a  French  dressing.  Serve  very  cold 
on  lettuce  leaves. 

158.  French  Salad  (2) 

Groups  M.  F.  P. 

Cut  into  dice  celery  to  make  2  cups,  1  onion,  4  apples, 
3  large  sweet  pickles.  Chop  1  bunch  watercress,  12 
olives,  1  cup  mushrooms,  3  hard-boiled  eggs.  Toss 
together  and  mix  well  with  French  dressing.  Serve 
on  lettuce. 

159.  Fruit  Salad,  French  Style 

Groups  M.  S.  F.— P.  St 

Peel  carefully  and  slice  2  oranges,  2  apples,  and  2 
bananas.  Ai-range  in  layers  on  individual  plates,  pour 
over  a  little  mayonnaise  thinned  with  cream.  Garnish 
with  chopped  nuts  and  lettuce  hearts,  or  with  water- 
cress. 


82  NATURE   CURE   COOK  BOOK 

160.  French  Fruit  Salad 

Groups  M. — F. 
Chop  3  cups  apples  and  1  cup  celery;  put  a  ring  of 
pineapples  on  lettuce  leaves;  mix  apples  and  celery 
with  a  French  dressing  and  place  on  pineapple. 

161.  Fruit  Salad  (1) 

Groups  M.  S,  F. 

1  cup  seeded  white  grapes,  1  cup  sliced  peaches,  1  cup 
pineapple  cut  in  small  pieces ;  arrange  on  crisp  lettuce 
leaves;  serve  with  cream  dressing;  sprinkle  with  nuts 
if  desired. 

162.  Fruit  Salad  (2) 

Groups  F.  P.  M.  S. 
1  pound  of  English  walnuts,  1  pound  white  grapes, 
seeded  and  cut  in  halves,  1  cup  celery,  diced,  2  cups 
chopped    apples;    combine,  and   serve   with  whipped 
cream  dressing. 

163.  Fruit  Salad  (3) 

Groups  M.  S.  F.— St.  P. 

Mix  well  with  mayonnaise  dressing,  2  oranges,  1 
grape-fruit,  2  bananas  cut  in  dice,  1/2  pound  Malaga 
grapes,  cut  in  halves  and  seeded,  and  I/2  cup  pecans. 
Chili  thoroughly  and  serve  in  half  shells  of  oranges  or 
grape-fruit  lined  with  lettuce  hearts. 

164.  Fourth  of  July  Salad 

Groups  M.  St.  P. 

Hollow  out  firm,  ripe  tomatoes,  fill  with  a  good 
potato  salad,  cover  the  top  with  finely  chopped  hard- 
boiled  white  of  egg;  serve  on  blue  dishes. 


SALADS  83 

165.  German  Hot  Slaw 

Groups  M.— F.  S.  St. 

Shred  1  medium-sized  head  of  cabbage  and  1  good- 
sized  onion;  melt  2  tablespoons  butter  in  a  stewpan, 
let  cook  a  few  minutes,  then  add  the  cabbage  and 
onion;  cover  with  hot  water  and  let  boil  thirty  min- 
utes, then  add  %  cup  lemon  juice  and  I/2  cup  sugar; 
season  to  taste;  then  add  1  tablespoon  flour  dissolved 
in  water ;  let  cook  a  few  minutes  longer ;  serve  very  hot. 

166.  German  Vegetable  Salad 

Groups  M.  F. 

Cut  into  small  dice  the  tender  portion  of  1  dozen 
stalks  of  asparagus,  1  small  cauliflower,  1  stalk  celery, 
3  medium-sized  tomatoes,  1  Bermuda  onion,  2  juicy 
apples.  Mix  well  with  mayonnaise  and  serve  on  tender 
cabbage  leaves. 

Variation :  On  a  platter  arrange  the  asparagus  tips 
as  rays  from  the  center,  with  cauliflower  broken  into 
small  flowerets  between  them.  In  the  center  heap  up 
the  other  ingredients  to  form  a  mound;  add  boiled 
salad  dressing,  and  serve  garnished  with  lettuce  hearts 
and  radishes,  cut  in  fancy  shapes. 

167.  Golden  Salad 

Groups  M.  F.  P. 

"Wash  seedless  oranges,  cut  into  lengthwise  sections, 
and  loosen  the  pulp  with  a  sharp  knife.  Arrange  the 
sections  to  form  a  design,  garnish  with  blanched  al- 
monds and  watercress;  serve  with  whipped  cream  or 
mayonnaise. 


84  NATURE   CURE   COOK   BOOK 

168.  Stuffed  Grapes 

Groups  S.  M,— F.  P. 

Remove  perfect  Tokay  or  Malaga  grapes  from  the 
stems,  slit  the  sides  with  a  sharp  knife,  take  out  the 
seeds  carefully,  fill  the  cavities  with  cream  cheese 
mixed  with  a  small  amount  of  French  dressing.  Ar- 
range on  lettuce,  and  add  mayonnaise.  Garnish  with 
small  bunches  of  grapes. 

169.  Grapefruit  Salad  (1) 

Groups  M.  F.  P. 

Dice  or  shred  grapefruit  which  has  been  carefully 
freed  from  the  skin,  seeds  and  membrane;  serve  on 
lettuce  with  sweetened  mayonnaise  to  which  orange 
juice  may  be  added,  or  with  whipped  cream  sprinkled 
with  chopped  nuts,  or  with  a  dressing  made  of  1  part 
lemon  juice  to  2  parts  peanut  butter.  Shredded  fresh 
cocoanut  is  a  desirable  addition. 

170.  Grapefruit  Salad  (2) 

Groups  M.  S.  F. 

To  grapefruit  pulp  add  chopped  or  diced  celery, 
apples,  bananas,  figs  and  dates;  mix  with  mayonnaise 
or  French  dressing  and  serve  in  halved  grapefruit 
shells,  lined  with  lettuce  hearts. 

171.  Grapefruit  and  Green  Pepper  Salad 

Groups  M.  F.  P. 

Remove  the  tops  from  large  green  sweet  peppers, 
scoop  out  the  seeds,  fill  the  cavities  with  grapefruit 
pulp,  finely  chopped  celery  and  English  walnuts,  using 
two  pai'ts  grapefruit  to  one  of  celery  and  the  meat  of 


SALADS  85 

2  nuts  to  each  pepper  pod.    Let  stand  about  one  hour. 
Serve  well  chilled,  with  mayonnaise. 

172.  Greek  Salad 

Groups  M.  P. 

Parboil  3  green  peppers  in  salted  water  about  ten 
minutes,  then  remove  seeds  and  cut  in  strips ;  mix  with 
1  cup  celery  diced,  6  apples,  cut  in  eighths  lengthwise ; 
mix  with  a  French  dressing,  and  serve  on  sliced  toma- 
toes placed  on  lettuce  leaves.  Decorate  with  whipped 
cream. 

173.  Green  Salad  (1) 

Groups  M,  F.  S. 

Cut  into  shreds  lettuce,  endive,  dandelion  leaves, 
romaine,  garden  cress,  tender  beet  greens,  or  spinach; 
mix  with  nut  butter  dressing,  sweetened  to  taste  with 
sugar  or  (preferably)  honey. 

174.  Green  Salad  (2) 

Groups  M.  F. — P. 

Run  1  large  cucumber  and  1  sweet  green  pepper 
through  the  food  chopper,  serve  on  a  bed  of  shredded 
cabbage  or  lettuce  leaves,  with  French  dressing. 
Chopped  pistachio  nuts  may  be  sprinkled  over  the  top, 
or  green  olives  used  as  a  garnish. 

175.  Green  Peas  and  String  Bean  Salad 

Groups  M.  S.— F. 

Mix  together  1  cup  each  of  cold  boiled  string  beans 
and  green  peas;  season;  add  1  tablespoon  mayonnaise 
dressing;  line  a  salad  dish  with  lettuce  leaves,  make 
a  mound  of  the  vegetables  upon  them,  and  put  dressing 


86  NATURE    CURE    COOK   BOOK 

on  top.    Garnish  with  slices  of  red  radishes,  beets  or 
tomatoes;  serve  very  cold. 

176.  Hallowe'en  Salad 

Groups  M.  F.  P. 
Select  6  nice,  firm  apples ;  clean  and  hollow  them  and 
plunge  in  cold  water.     Mix  the  pulp  with  nuts  and 
celery  ininced  and  moistened  with  mayonnaise.     Fill 
the  apple  cups  and  serve  on  lettuce  leaves. 

177.  Heart  Salad 

Groups  M.  S.— F.  P. 
"With  a  fancj'  heart-shaped  cutter,  cut  hearts  from 
sliced  cooked  beets,  carrots,  tender  white  or  yellow 
turnips,  kohlrabi,  or  from  large  pears,  apples,  or  musk- 
melons,  sliced  lengthwise.  Place  the  hearts  on  lettuce 
leaves  and  serve  with  mayonnaise  or  cream  dressing. 

178.  Kidney  Bean  Salad 

Groups  P.  F.— St.  M. 
Soak  over  night  1  cup  kidney  beans ;  cook  in  slightly 
salted  water  until  tender,  but  not  mushy ;  drain,  add  i 
cup  of  broken  English  walnut  meats,  about  6  minced 
olives,  and  i/^  cup  finely  cut  celery.  Mix  and  serve  on 
lettuce  with  mayonnaise  or  French  dressing. 

179.  Lettuce  Salad,  French  Style 

Groups  M.— F.  P. 
Separate  the  inner  leaves  of  head  lettuce,  wash  well 
and  drain.  Arrange  on  a  platter,  sprinkle  with  finely 
chopped  onions  and  radishes.  Garnish  with  watercress, 
sliced  tomatoes  and  olives.  Sprinkle  Math  chopped 
nuts  and  serve  with  French  dressing. 


SALADS  87 

180.  Lettuce  Salad,  German  Style 

Groups  M.  F.  P. 

Separate  and  wash  head  lettuce,  place  in  cold  water 
for  about  one  hour  to  crisp,  then  drain ;  cut  up  roughly 
and  place  in  salad  bowl ;  pour  over  a  dressing  made  of 
1  part  lemon  juice,  2  parts  olive  oil,  sugar  to  taste, 
and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Mix  well  with  wooden  salad  forks. 
Serve  garnished  with  slices  of  hard-boiled  eggs. 

181.  Marguerite  Salad 

Groups  F.  P.  M. 

Cut  6  hard-boiled  eggs  into  slices  one-eighth  of  an 
inch  thick ;  remove  the  yolk  carefully ;  place  the  white 
rings  on  cress  in  a  circle  to  overlap  each  other;  mix 
the  yolks  thoroughly  with  2  tablespoons  oil,  a  few 
drops  lemon  juice,  and  a  little  salt.  Heap  this  mixture 
into  the  center  of  each  white  ring.  Serve  with  mayon- 
naise. 

182.  Mixed  Salad 

Groups  M.  F.  P.— S. 

Combine  green  peas,  cooked  or  raw,  apples,  celery, 
and  cooked  beets,  cut  into  dice,  hard-boiled  eggs  and  a 
few  mushrooms,  chopped  fine;  mix  well  with  mayon- 
naise, and  serve  on  lettuce. 

183.  Mock  Lobster  Salad 

Groups  M.  F.  P. 

Grate  raw  carrots,  adding  a  little  grated  horseradish, 
if  desired;  mix  with  half  the  quantity  of  chopped 
celery,  some  broken  walnut  or  pecan  nuts  and  a  few 


88  natttm:  cube  cook  book 

mushrooms;  arrange  lettuce  hearts  on  a  platter,  place 
the  carrot  mixture  in  the  center,  shaped  to  roughlj 
represent  a  lobster.  Serve  with  mayonnaise  and  slices 
of  lemon. 

184.  Mock  Pineapple  Salad 

Groups  M.  F. 

Pare  large,  rather  sweet  apples,  cut  into  thin  slices 
and  remove  the  core  with  a  small,  round  cutter.  Put 
the  slices  at  once  into  cold  water  to  prevent  discolora- 
tion. Slice  oranges  of  equal  size;  arrange  the  fruit 
on  lettuce,  one  slice  of  orange  between  two  of  apple, 
with  a  cherry  or  ripe  olive  in  the  center.  Serve  with 
mayonnaise  thinned  with  orange  juice.  The  ingre- 
dients should  be  well  chilled. 


185.  Nasturtium  Salad  (1) 

Groups  M.  F. 

Shred  equal  quantities  of  lettuce  and  nasturtium 
leaves,  heap  on  a  platter  or  individual  plates,  dot  with 
nasturtium  flowers.  Serve  with  French  dressing  or 
nut  butter  dressing,  sweetened  with  honey,  if  desired. 

186.  Nasturtium  Salad  (2) 

Groups  M.  F.  S. 

Arrange  tender  nasturtium  leaves  on  a  platter; 
place  on  them  first  a  layer  of  sliced  tomatoes,  then  a 
layer  of  cucumbers,  sliced  or  chipped,  and  lastly  young 
sweet  corn  cut  from  the  cob.  Pour  over  this  a  French 
dressing  and  serve  garnished  with  nasturtium  flowers. 


SALADS  89 

187.  Novel  Salad 

Groups  M.  F.— S.  P. 

Arrange  slices  of  pineapple  on  lettuce  leaves.  On 
each  slice  put  a  tablespoon  of  mayonnaise,  and  in  the 
center  3  or  4  grapes,  with  skin  and  seeds  removed,  or 
ripe  olives,  halved  and  stoned.  Around  these  sprinkle 
Neufchatel  or  cream  cheese  which  has  been  pressed 
through  a  ricer.    Lay  strips  of  pimento  over  the  cheese. 

188.  Nut  Salad 

Groups  F.  P.— M. 

Shell  2  dozen  English  walnuts,  throw  into  boiling 
water,  leave  for  five  minutes,  then  drain  and  skin  them ; 
set  on  ice  until  very  cold;  arrange  on  lettuce  leaves 
and  serve  with  French  or  mayonnaise  dressing. 

189.  Okra  Salad  (Gumbo) 

Groups  M.  F. 

Slice  boiled  okra  pods,  mix  with  sliced  cucumbers 
and  tomatoes,  and  serve  on  lettuce  with  French  dress- 
ing.   Shredded  green  peppers  may  be  added. 

Another  way  is  to  serve  the  okra  pods  entire,  the 
stems  to  be  used  as  handles,  with  mayonnaise  or  boiled 
dressing. 

190.  Olive  Salad 

Groups  F.  P.  M. 

Run  through  the  food  chopper  1  cup  each  of  raw 
Spanish  peanuts,  English  walnuts,  and  stoned  olives, 
1  large  Spanish  onion,  1  apple  and  1  stalk  celery.  Mix 
with  mayonnaise  and  serve  on  shredded  lettuce,  gar- 
nished with  slices  of  cooked  beets. 


90  NATURE    CURE    COOK   BOOK 

191.  Orange  Salad 

Groups  M.  F.— S.  St. 

Peel  oranges  carefully,  slice,  remove  seeds  and  tough 
pith.  Serve  on  watercress,  with  any  preferred  dress- 
ing. 

192.  Orange  and  Date  Salad 

Groups  M.  S.  F.— P. 

Carefully  peel  and  seed  6  oranges  and  1  grapefruit; 
separate  the  sections  and  break  or  cut  into  small  por- 
tions ;  add  1  pound  of  stoned  dates,  or  i/^  pound  each 
of  dates  and  figs  cut  into  bits,  3  apples,  diced,  and 
chopped  pecan  meats.  Serve  on  crisp,  white  lettuce 
leaves,  with  a  dressing  made  as  follows : 

Yolks  of  2  eggs,  beaten  light,  l^  cup  powdered  sugar, 
1  cup  orange  juice,  1  tablespoon  each  of  lemon  and 
grape  juice. 

193.  "Our  Own"  Salad 

Groups  M.  S.  F. 

2  cups  green  peas,  1  cup  celery,  cut  fine,  1  cup 
oranges  cut  into  cubes,  and  1  cup  pineapple ;  mix  with 
French  dressing  and  serve  on  shredded  cabbage. 

194.  Peach  Salad 
Groups  M.  S.  F.— P. 

Pare  and  halve  large,  ripe  peaches,  remove  stones, 
and  fill  the  cavities  with  equal  parts  of  ground  nuts 
and  chopped  dates  or  figs.  Sprinkle  with  a  few  drops 
of  lemon  juice,  and  serve  with  mayonnaise  on  crisp, 
cup-shaped  lettuce  leaves. 

Note: — Peaches  filled  with  red  raspberries  make  a 
pretty  salad  and  may  be  served  with  whipped  cream. 


SALADS  91 

195.  Peach  and  Cantaloupe  Salad 

Groups  M.  S.  F. 

Fill  halved  cantaloupes  with  sliced  peaches,  sprinkle 
with  sugar,  and  serve  on  lettuce  leaves,  with  a  whipped 
cream  dressing. 

196.  Pear  and  Plum  Salad 

Groups  M.  S.  F. 

Cut  medium-sized  pears  into  thin  slices.  (Do  not 
pare  unless  the  skin  is  very  coarse.)  Dip  each  slice  in 
lemon  juice  to  prevent  discoloration  and  also  to  im- 
prove the  flavor  of  the  salad.  Skin  plums  (after  put- 
ting in  boiling  water  for  a  few  seconds),  cut  them  in 
halves,  remove  the  stones,  and  put  a  little  mayonnaise 
in  each  cavity. 

Arrange  the  plums  in  a  circle  on  a  platter  lined  with 
lettuce  hearts,  with  the  pears  heaped  in  the  center.  Dot 
with  mounds  of  whipped  cream.    Serve  well  chilled. 

Note: — Apples  may  be  used  instead  of  pears. 

197.  Spanish  Pepper  Salad 

Groups  M.  F.  P. 

Shred  6  pimentoes,  add  2  cups  celery,  cut  into  dice, 
and  1  cup  pecans.  Mis  well  with  slightly  sweetened 
mayonnaise  and  serve  on  shredded  lettuce. 

Groups  M.  F.  P. — S. 

Another  way  to  prepare  this  salad  is  to  add  the 
ingredients  to  1  quart  of  jelly  made  in  the  usual  way 
from  plain  gelatine,  to  which  has  been  added  the  juice 
of  1  lemon,  V2  cup  sugar,  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  May  be 
served  in  individual  molds  with  mayonnaise  or  boiled 
dressing.     This  will  serve  from  ten  to  twelve  persona. 


92  NATURE   CURE   COOK    BOOK 

198.  stuffed  Pepper  Salad 

Groups  M.  F.  P. 

Cut  large,  green  sweet  peppers  in  halves,  remove 
seeds,  and  place  in  cold  water  for  several  hours.  When 
ready  to  serve,  fill  with  a  mixture  of  equal  parts  finely- 
chopped  celery,  green  onions,  green  peas,  tomatoes 
and  hard-boiled  eggs.  Serve  on  crisp  lettuce  leaves 
with  boiled  salad  dressing. 

199.  Pineapple  and  Celery  Salad 

Groups  M.  F. 

Peel  and  shred  1  small,  ripe  pineapple,  set  on  ice 
until  thoroughly  chilled,  then  mix  with  1  cup  crisp 
white  celery,  cut  fine,  and  1  red  sweet  pepper.  Let 
stand  a  few  minutes,  then  mix  with  mayonnaise  or 
French  dressing.  Serve  on  lettuce,  garnished  with  nut 
meats. 

200.  Pineapple  and  Cheese  Salad 

Groups  M.  F.  P. 

To  1  cup  pineapple,  shredded  or  cut  into  small  dice, 
add  an  equal  amount  of  Neufchatel  or  cottage  cheese 
that  has  been  pressed  through  a  potato  ricer.  Serve 
on  lettuce  with  mayonnaise  to  which  cayenne  pepper 
or  minced  parsley  has  been  added. 

201.  Pineapple  and  Cherry  Salad 

Groups  M.  r. 

Pit  cherries,  mix  with  an  equal  amount  of  pineapple 
cut  into  cubes;  arrange  on  lettuce  and  serve  with 
whipped  cream,  slightly  sweetened.  Sprinkle  with  a 
dash  of  paprika. 


SATiAOS  93 

202.  Pineapple  and  Marshmallow  Salad 

Groups  M.  S.  F. — P. 

Clip  marshmallows  into  strips;  mix  with  an  equal 
amount  of  shredded  pineapple  and  a  few  pecans; 
moisten  well  with  boiled  salad  dressing,  sweetened  to 
taste.  Serve  on  crisp  lettuce,  with  a  tablespoon  of 
whipped  cream  on  each  portion. 

203.  Pineapple  and  Pecan  Salad 

Groups  M.  F.  P. 

Peel  1  small  pineapple,  cut  into  dice,  add  sugar  to 
taste,  and  let  stand  on  ice  about  one  hour.  Mix  with 
1  cup  halved  pecan  meats.  Serve  on  lettuce  leaves, 
with  mayonnaise. 

204.  Piquant  Salad 

Groups  M.  F.  P. 

Cut  into  small  dice  1  Spanish  onion,  1  cup  mush- 
rooms, about  12  red  radishes,  and  an  equal  number  of 
green  or  ripe  olives;  add  some  shredded  endive  and  a 
few  capers.  Serve  on  a  bed  of  watercress,  with  the  fol- 
lowing dressing: 

1  cup  sour  cream,  juice  of  1  lemon,  3  tablespoons 
olive  oil,  a  pinch  of  salt  and  a  dash  of  red  pepper,  if 
desired. 

205.  Plum  Salad 

Groups  M.  S.  F.  P. 

Pare  and  pit  nice,  ripe  plums  and  fill  the  cavities  in 
each  with  chopped  nuts ;  arrange  on  a  circle  of  lettuce 
leaves.  Serve  with  a  whipped  cream  dressing,  and  gar- 
nish with  sliced  oranges. 


94  NATURE   CURE   COOK  BOOK 

206.  Plum  and  Peach  Salad 

Groups  III  S.  F. 

Pare  nice  peaches,  cut  in  halves  and  stone;  arrange 
on  a  circle  of  lettuce  leaves ;  place  half  a  plum  (peeled 
and  stoned)  on  each  half.  Serve  with  whipped  cream 
or  mayonnaise  dressing. 

207.  Poinsetta  Salad 

Groups  M.  F. — P. 

Cut  tomatoes  into  six  sections  like  a  flower,  and  lay 
on  lettuce  like  poinsetta  blossoms;  put  mayonnaise 
dressing  in  the  center,  insert  pieces  of  olives  for  the 
stamens,  and  grate  egg  yolk  over  to  represent  the 
pollen ;  use  a  bit  of  cress  for  the  stems. 

208.  Porcupine  Salad 

Groups  M.  F.  P.  S. 

On  crisp,  large  lettuce  leaves  put  halves  of  large 
pears  or  small  cantaloupes,  with  skin  removed.  Cut 
blanched  almonds  in  halves  and  place  them  on  end  all 
over  the  pear  or  melon.  At  one  end  fasten  currants 
with  parts  of  a  toothpick,  to  represent  the  eyes.  Serve 
with  mayonnaise  to  which  orange  juice  has  been  added. 

209.  Potato  Salad 
Groups  F.  P.  St.— M. 

Cut  cold  boiled  potatoes  into  dice  to  make  2  cups; 
add  3  hard-boiled  eggs  and  y^  cup  celery,  chopped 
rather  fine.  Mix  well  with  mayonnaise  and  serve  in  a 
border  of  watercress. 

Instead  of  mayonnaise,  the  following  dressing  may 
be  used : 


SALADS  95 

1  cup  cream,  juice  of  1  lemon,  1  tablespoon  each  of 
onion  juice  and  olive  oil,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and,  if  desired, 
a  dash  of  cayenne. 

210.  Potato  and  Nut  Salad 

Groups  F.  P.  St. — M. 

3  boiled  potatoes,  cut  into  dice,  3  hard-boiled  eggs, 
y2.  cup  walnuts,  and  12  olives,  ripe  or  green,  chopped 
fine.  When  ready  to  serve,  mix  well  with  mayonnaise. 
Serve  very  cold  on  shredded  lettuce. 

211.  Princess  Salad 

Groups  M.  F.  P.  S. 

Mix  1  cup  apples  and  2  of  cucumbers,  cut  into  dice, 
1  cup  pecans,  broken,  and  1  cup  green  peas ;  add  may- 
onnaise dressing,  and  serve  on  lettuce. 

212.  Rose  Salad 

Groups  M.  F. 

Select  ripe  tomatoes  with  firm  flesh;  cut  a  square 
plug  from  the  stem  end,  remove  some  of  the  pulp,  fill 
the  cavity  with  mayonnaise  and  replace  the  plug.  Set 
on  end,  and  v/ith  a  sharp  knife  trace  the  outline  of 
large  rose  petals  on  the  tomatoes,  turning  back  flesh 
and  skin  carefully  from  the  center.  Put  on  ice  to  chill 
until  serving  time. 

Separate  the  leaves  of  small  head  lettuce,  let  stand 
in  ice  water  for  an  hour  to  get  crisp,  then  drain  and 
shake  in  a  napkin  until  dry.  Cut  tender  celery  into 
inch-long  pieces,  shave  thin,  and  put  into  cold  water 
for  about  an  hour.  When  drained  it  will  be  found  to 
curl. 

On  individual  salad  plates  put  a  border  of  the  curled 


96  NATURE   CURE   COOK  BOOK 

celery,  and  in  the  center  place  a  tomato,  surrounded  by 
the  lettuce  leaves  like  a  rose  in  its  calyx.  Sprinkle  a 
small  amount  of  finely  chopped  pecan  meats  in  the  cen- 
ter of  the  rose  to  represent  the  pollen. 

213.  Sanitarium  Salad  (1) 

Groups  M.  F. 

Cut  into  dice  equal  parts  of  celery,  apples,  cooked 
string  beans,  and  a  few  green  peas.  Mix  with  mayon- 
naise dressing,  and  serve  on  shredded  cabbage. 

214.  Sanitarium  Salad  (2) 

Groups  M.  F. 

Put  on  individual  salad  plates  a  layer  of  crisp  let- 
tuce; in  the  center  place  a  small,  partially  quartered 
tomato,  surrounded  with  a  wreath  of  thinly  sliced 
cucumbers.  Into  the  center  of  each  tomato  drop  1 
small  teaspoon  of  finely  minced  onion,  sprinkled  with 
a  pinch  of  chopped  parsley.  Serve  with  mayonnaise 
dressing. 

215.  Shamrock  Salad 

Groups  M.  F.  P. 

Eemove  the  seeds  from  green  sweet  peppers,  wash 
and  dry  well ;  fill  with  a  mixture  of  Philadelphia  cream 
cheese  and  chopped  nuts;  chill  and  serve  in  slices  on 
shredded  lettuce  leaves.  Serve  with  a  dressing  made  as 
follows : 

To  1  pint  whipped  cream  add  salt,  paprika,  the  Juice 
of  1  lemon  and  2  tablespoons  finely  chopped  parsley. 
Qamish  with  hard-boiled  eggs. 


SALADS  07 

216.  Spanish  Salad 

Groups  III  F.  P.  a 

6  carrots  grated  fine,  1  small  can  pimentoes,  chopped 
fine,  1  bunch  green  onions  cut  into  dice ;  mix  well  with 
a  mayonnaise  dressing;  sprinkle  walnuts  on  top,  and 
serve  on  sliced  tomatoes. 


217.  Spinach  Salad 

Groups  M.— F.  P. 

"Wash  carefully  and  drain  fresh,  tender  spinach 
leaves.  Serve  heaped  on  a  platter  or  on  individual 
salad  plates.  At  each  place  have  a  dish  of  nut  cream 
made  by  stirring  water  into  nut  butter  until  it  is  of  the 
proper  consistency. 

218.  Spring  Salad 

Groups  M.  P.  P. 

Shred  crisp  lettuce  leaves,  add  green  onions,  cut  fine, 
and  a  little  grated  horseradish.  Serve  mixed  with 
French  dressing  and  garnished  with  slices  of  hard- 
boiled  eggs. 

219.  Strawberry  Salad 

Groups  M.  3. 

Arrange  nice  strawberries  on  salad  plates ;  pour  over 
them  dressing  made  of  sweetened  strawberry  and 
cherry  juice  to  which  has  been  added  the  juice  of  1 
lemon.  Garnish  with  sliced  oranges  and  strawberry 
leaves. 


98  NATURE   CURE    COOK   BOOK 

220.  stuffed  Celery  Salad 

Groups  M.  F.  P. 

Select  the  rounded  inside  stalks  of  fine  celery,  cut 
in  four-inch  lengths  and  lay  in  cold  water  until  re- 
quired, to  make  crisp  and  firm.  Drain,  wipe  dry  and 
fill  with  Neufchatel  or  Philadelphia  cream  cheese, 
rubbed  to  a  soft  paste  with  cream  and  seasoned  to  taste 
with  paprika  and  onion  juice.  Serve  cold,  with  mayon- 
naise,  garnished  with  lettuce  hearts. 

221.  Stuffed  Pear  Salad 

Groups  S,  F.  P.— M. 
Place  canned  pears  on  lettuce  leaves ;  fill  the  cavities 
with  dates  cut  fine,  mixed  with  chopped  nuts;  pour 
over  this  a  mayonnaise  dressing  thinned  with  cream; 
sprinkle  thickly  with  cream  cheese,  pressed  through  a 
ricer. 

222.  Summer  Salad 

Groups  M.  F. — P. 
On  a  bed  of  lettuce  or  other  summer  greens  arrange 
a  layer  of  sliced  tomatoes,  or  cucumbers,  or  both.  On 
this  put  a  mound  of  equal  parts  of  cabbage,  celery, 
and  apples,  chopped  fine,  mixed  with  mayonnaise  or 
French  dressing.  Sprinkle  with  ground  English  wal- 
nuts. 

223.  Tip  Top  Salad 

Groups  M.  F. 

Slice  very  thin  2  young  carrots,  2  cucumbers,  about 
12  radishes  and  2  or  3  small  tomatoes.  Arrange  in  cir- 
cular layers  on  crisp  lettuce  leaves  or  shredded  cab- 
bage. Serve  with  sour  cream  dressing  or  with  may- 
onnaise. 


SAIiADS  9y 

224.  Tomato  Cups 

Groups  M.  F.— St.  P. 

Cut  the  tops  from  6  firm  tomatoes,  remove  pulp ;  cut 
1  Spanish  onion  into  small  dicej  add  1  cup  bread 
crumbs,  %  cup  mayonnaise,  a  little  minced  parsley, 
seasoning  to  taste,  and  the  tomato  pulp,  chopped  fine. 
Mix,  fill  the  shells,  and  serve  on  lettuce  leaves,  with 
mayonnaise. 

225.  Tomato  Salad 

Groups  3VL  F.  P. 

Slice  ripe  tomatoes,  not  too  thin,  and  arrange  slices 
on  a  platter  alternately  with  slices  of  Spanish  onion. 
Garnish  with  quarter  sections  of  hard-boiled  eggs  and 
serve  with  boiled  salad  dressing. 

226.  Simple  Tomato  Salad 

Groups  M.  F. 

Firm,  ripe  tomatoes,  sliced  or  quartered,  and  served 
on  lettuce  leaves  with  nut  cream,  mayonnaise,  or  any 
preferred  dressing.  If  desired,  sprinkle  with  minced 
young  onions  or  parsley. 

227.  Filled  Tomato  Salad 

Groups  M.  St.  S. 

Scoop  out  tomatoes,  fill  with  potato  salad  mixed  with 
green  peas.     Serve  on  lettuce. 

228.  Stuffed  Tomato  Salad 

Groups  M.  F.  P. 

Scald  firm,  ripe  tomatoes  for  one  minute,  so  that, the 
skin  can  be  removed  easily.     Cut  a  slice  from  the  top, 


100  NATURE   CURE   COOK  BOOK 

take  out  part  of  the  pulp  carefully  witli  a  spoon.  Fill 
the  tomatoes  with  cucumbers  cut  into  dice  and  moist- 
ened with  cream  dressing.  On  top  put  a  tablespoon 
of  unsweetened  whipped  cream,  and  siorinkle  with 
finely  minced  parsley  or  hard-boiled  eggs.  Serve  on 
a  bed  of  water  cress. 

Note : — Another  suitable  filling  for  tomatoes  is  equal 
parts  of  cabbage,  celery  and  apples,  chopped  fine  or  cut 
in  small  dice.  Garnish  with  shredded  green  sweet 
peppers. 

229.  Tomato  and  Green  Pepper  Salad 

Groups  M.  F. 

Cut  4  green  peppers  into  lengthwise  sections,  remove 
the  white  inside  skin  and  seeds,  pour  boiling  water 
over,  let  stand  about  ten  minutes,  drain,  cut  into  small 
dice  of  uniform  size,  and  lay  in  ice  water.  Peel  and 
quarter  6  ripe  tom.atces,  thoroughly  chilled;  arrange 
the  sections  on  lettuce  and  sprinkle  with  the  diced 
peppers,  first  draining  off  the  water.  Serve  at  once 
with  a  good  French  dressing. 

230.  Vegetable  Salad  (1) 

Groups  M.  F. 

Serve  a  combination  of  sliced  cucumbers,  tomatoes 
and  Spanish  onions,  or  cabbage,  celery  and  green  sweet 
peppers  cut  into  dice,  on  lettuce,  dandelion  leaves,  or 
on  shredded  young  spinach,  garnished  with  water  cress 
or  sprigs  of  parsley.  Serve  with  French  dressing,  may- 
onnaise, or  a  dressing  made  of  1  part  lemon  juice  to 
2  parts  honey. 


SALADS  101 

231.  Vegetable  Salad  (2) 

Groups  M.  S.— St.  P. 

Combine  peas  and  young  lima  beans  with  an  equal 
amount  of  celery  cubes;  mis  with  a  French  dressing 
and  serve  on  lettuce  leaves ;  garnish  with  beets  cut  into 
fancy  shapes. 

232.  Fancy  Vegetable  Salad 

Groups  M.  F. — P. 

Wash  carefully  young  carrots,  cucumbers,  radishes 
and  small  tomatoes,  but  do  not  peel.  Cut  in  thin 
slices  and  arrange  on  a  platter  in  some  fancy  design. 
Garnish  with  lettuce  hearts  and  ripe  olives.  Serve 
with  French  dressing  or  mayonnaise. 

233.  Cooked  Vegetable  Salad 

Groups  St.  S.  M.— F.  P. 

Arrange  cooked  beets,  potatoes  and  carrots  in  cir- 
cular layers  on  crisp  lettuce  leaves  or  large  steamed 
cabbage  leaves.  In  the  center  place  a  little  mound  of 
green  peas ;  sprinkle  with  parsley  or  hard-boiled  eggs, 
chopped  rather  fine.     Serve  with  mayonnaise. 

234.  Uncooked  Vegetable  Salad 

Groups  M.  P. 

Cut  or  chop  separately  y2  oi  a  small,  firm,  white 
cabbage,  1  onion,  about  10  radishes  and  3  tomatoes. 
Toss  lightly  together,  heap  on  a  platter,  pour  French 
dressing  over,  and  garnish  with  lettuce  hearts  or  serve 
in  a  border  of  water  cress.  Grated  carrot  may  be 
sprinkled  over  the  top  in  some  fancy  design,  fi'om  a 
piece  of  stiff  paper. 


102  NATURE   CURE   COOK  BOOK 

235.  Waldorf-Astoria  Salad 

Groups  M.  F.  P. 

Equal  parts  of  celery  and  apples,  cut  into  dice,  and 
half  the  quantity  of  English  walnuts,  chopped  coarsely. 
Mix  with  mayonnaise  and  serve  on  crisp  lettuce  leaves. 

236.  Watercress  Salad  (1) 

Groups  M.  F. 

Pick  over  2  bunches  of  watercress,  removing  wilted 
leaves  and  lower  part  of  stems;  keep  in  cold  water 
until  serving  time  so  that  it  will  be  crisp.  Chop  i/^ 
small  white  cabbage,  1  green  sweet  pepper  and  1  onion, 
removing  the  seeds  and  white  inside  skin  from  the 
pepper;  put  them  into  a  basin  of  ice-cold  water  for 
about  thirty  minutes  to  reduce  the  strong  flavors. 
Drain,  mix  with  lemon  juice  and  olive  oil  to  suit  taste ; 
season  with  celery  salt  and,  if  desired,  a  dash  of  red 
pepper.  Serve  the  chopped  vegetables  in  a  border 
of  watercress. 

Note: — Tlie  combined  flavor  of  cabbage  and  water- 
cress is  delicious. 

237.  Watercress  Salad  (2) 

Groups  M.  F. 

Wash  and  pick  over  fresh  watercress,  mix  well  with 
French  dressing  and  serve  on  shredded  lettuce.  Gar- 
nish with  sections  of  orange. 

238.  Water  Lily  Salad 

Groups  F.  P.  M. 

Cut  hard-boiled  eggs  in  halves  (lengthwise),  remove 
the  yolks,  then  cut  the  whites  into  thin  lengthwise 


SALADS  103 

sections  and  arrange  them  on  individual  salad  dishes 
in  a  small,  cup-shaped  lettuce  leaf  to  represent  the 
petals  of  water  lilies.  Mash  the  yolks  with  a  fork, 
or  press  through  a  sieve.  For  each  egg-yolk  use 
1  teaspoon  cream,  a  few  di'ops  of  onion  juice,  salt  and 
cayenne  pepper  to  taste.  Mix  and  form  into  little 
balls,  place  one  in  the  center  of  each  lily,  then  roughen 
the  surface  slightly  with  a  fork.  Garnish  with  nas- 
turtium leaves  (garden  cress)  to  represent  the  leaves 
and  stems  of  the  lilies.     Serve  with  mayonnaise. 

239.  White  Gahd  (1) 

Groups  M.  F.  P.  S. 

Grate  1  fresh  cocoanut,  shred  1  small  head  cabbage 
and  1  Spanish  onion,  and  cut  4  peeled  apples  into  fine 
strips.  Mix  with  a  whipped  cream  dressing  and  serve 
at  once,  before  the  apples  become  discolored.  Gar- 
nish with  lettuce  hearts. 

240.  White  Salad  (2) 

Groups  LL  F.  P.— S. 

Cut  equal  quantities  of  celery  and  fine  apples  into 
small  dice.  Sprinkle  thickly  with  fresh  grated  cocoa- 
nut,  and  serve  on  white  lettuce  leaves  or  tender  cabbage 
leaves,  with  a  whipped  cream  dressing. 

SALAD  DEESSINGS 

241.  Boiled  Salad  Dressing 

Groups  F.  P.— M.  St.  S. 

Melt  1  tablespoon  butter,  sift  in  1  of  flour  and  rub 
smooth.  Stir  in  %  teaspoon  salt,  1  tablespoon  sugar 
and  2  eggs,  then  add  i/^  cup  each  lemon  juice  and 


104  NATURE   CURE   COOK  BOOK 

water.  Beat  well,  set  the  dish  in  a  pan  of  boiling 
water,  and  cook  until  the  dressing  thickens,  with  occa- 
sional stirring.  When  cool,  add  2  tablespoons  olive 
oil  or  cream.  Beat  with  an  egg-beater  until  light  and 
foamy. 

242.  Boiled  Salad  Dressing  (With  Mustard) 

Groups  F.  P.  M. 

Into  1  tablespoon  olive  oil  stir  1  teaspoon  each  of 
salt,  sugar,  flour,  mustard  and  the  yolks  of  2  eggs. 
Add,  slowly,  ^  cup  lemon  juice,  and,  lastly,  1  cup 
milk.  Put  at  once  in  double  boiler  and  cook  until  it 
thickens,  stirring  well. 

If  mixed  as  directed,  the  milk  will  not  curdle.  If 
bottled  hot  and  well  corked  this  dressing  may  be  kept 
in  a  cool  place  for  several  weeks. 

243.  Chiffonade  Dressing 

Groups  F.  P.  M. 

Mix  2  tablespoons  minced  parsley,  2  hard-boiled  eggs, 
chopped  fine,  a  little  salt,  sweet  pepper,  4  tablespoons 
olive  oil,  and  the  juice  of  1  lemon.  Mix  well,  and 
stand  on  ice  until  thoroughly  chilled.  Serve  with 
lettuce  or  cabbage. 

244.  Corn  Cream  Salad  Dressing 

Groups  P.  F.  S.  St.  M. 

Scrape  the  Juice  and  pulp  from  fresh,  juicy  sweet 
com,  and  add  an  equal  amount  of  nut  butter  mixed 
with  water  to  the  consistency  of  cream.  Season  with 
Bait  or  celery  salt  and  cayenne  pepper. 


SALADS  105 

245.  Cream  Salad  Dressing  (1) 

Groups  F.  P.  M. 

Into  1  well-beaten  egg,  stir  1  cup  sweet  cream  and 
the  juice  of  1  lemon.  Sweeten  to  taste  and  add  a  little 
salt. 

246.  Cream  Salad  Dressing  (2) 

Groups  F.  M.— S. 

Beat  well  together  the  juice  of  2  lemons  with  i/^ 
cup  olive  oil.  Add  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  1  or  2  table- 
spoons sugar,  according  to  taste.  Lastly,  add  slowly 
1  large  cup  cream,  a  little  at  a  time,  stirring  well. 

247.  Cream  Salad  Dressing  (3) 

Groups  M.  F. 

1  cup  cream,  juice  of  1  lemon,  1  tablespoon  each  of 
onion  juice  and  olive  oil,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and,  if  desired, 
a  dash  of  cayenne. 

248.  Sour  Cream  Dressing 

Groups  F.  S.  M. 

To  1  cup  sour  cream  add  3  tablespoons  sugar,  and 
lemon  juice  to  taste.     Mix  well. 

249.  French  Dressing  (1) 

Groups  F.  IVl 

Dissolve  1  teaspoon  salt  in  2  tablespoons  lemon  juice, 
then  add  3  tablespoons  olive  oil,  beating  the  mixture 
with  a  silver  fork  until  perfectly  blended.  If  desired, 
a  teaspoon  of  sugar  may  be  added.     Best  results  are 


106  NATURE   CURE  COOK  BOOK 

obtained  if  lemon  juice,  salt  and  sugar  are  beaten  sepa- 
rately until  creamy,  and  the  olive  oil  added,  drop  by 
drop,  and  Yz  cup  sweet  cream,  beating  hard  all  the 
time. 


250.  French  Dressing  (2) 

Groups  M.  F. 

1  teaspoon  salt,  i/o  cup  olive  oil,  2  tablespoons 
onion  juice,  the  juice  of  1  lemon,  and,  if  desired,  a 
dash  of  cayenne.     Mix  thoroughly. 

251.  French  Dressing  With  Roquefort 

Groups  F.  p.  M. 

Prepare  French  dressing;  add  to  it  as  much  grated 
Roquefort  cheese  as  desired. 

252.  Mayonnaise 

Groups  F.  M. 

Note: — Ingredients  should  be  very  cold. 

Into  a  chilled  soup  bowl  put  the  carefully  drained 
yolk  of  1  egg.  Add  %  teaspoon  mustard,  salt  and 
sugar,  a  few  drops  lemon  juice,  and  stir  at  once  with 
a  silver  spoon.  When  well  mixed,  add  olive  oil,  just 
a  few  drops  at  first,  then  in  larger  amounts,  stirring 
constantly  until  about  a  cup  of  oil  has  been  added. 
Now  add  lemon  juice  until  the  desired  degree  of  acidity 
is  reached.     When  serving,  add  1  cup  whipped  cream. 

Finely  chopped  parsley  or  grated  carrot  may  be 
added  to  mayonnaise  to  produce  novel  effects. 


SALADS  107 

253.  Delicious  Mayonnaise 

Groups  F.  M. 

Mash  fine  the  yolk  of  1  hard-boiled  egg;  add  1  tea- 
spoon each  of  salt,  dry  mustard,  sugar,  and  the  yolk 
of  1  raw  egg)  mix  the  ingredients  well,  then  add  oil 
very  slowly,  about  1  pint;  add  lemon  juice  to  suit 
taste,  stirring  constantly  in  one  direction  all  the  time ; 
then  add  1  cup  whipped  cream. 

254.  Mayonnaise  Salad  Dressing 

Groups  F.  M.— S. 

Yolks  of  3  eggs,  well  beaten,  1/2  teaspoon  dry  mus- 
tard, salt,  3  rounding  tablespoons  sugar,  8  tablespoons 
lemon  juice,  8  tablespoons  water,  and  butter  the  size 
of  an  egg;  cook  all  together  for  about  five  minutes. 
Thin  with  cream  or  fruit  juice. 

255.  Salad  Dressing 

Groups  F.  M. 

Put  5  tablespoons  of  lemon  juice  in  a  double  boiler; 
add  1  teaspoon  each  of  salt,  mustard  and  sugar,  and 
a  pinch  of  cayenne.  Stir  until  dissolved;  add  well- 
beaten  yolks  of  5  eggs;  take  from  fire,  add  Yo  cup 
butter;    beat  until  cool.     Thin  with  whipped  cream. 

256.  Salad  Dressing 

Groups  F.  M. 

Mix  together  1  teaspoon  salt,  1  teaspoon  mustard,  1 
tablespoon  sugar,  and  1  tablespoon  olive  oil;  add 
slowly  the  beaten  yolks  of  3  eggs,  %  cup  olive  oil  and 
H  cup  lemon  juice.     Cook  in  a  double  boiler  until  the 


108  NATURE   CURE   COOK   BOOK 

mixture  thickens;  while  hot,  stir  gradually  into  the 
well-beaten  whites  of  the  eggs.  This  recipe  should 
make  1  pint  of  dressing. 

257.  Salad  Dressing 

Groups  F.  P.  M.— S. 

1  egg.  %  cup  sugar,  1  tablespoon  flour,  i/o  teaspoon 
mustard  and  salt,  I/2  cup  each  of  lemon  juice  and 
water;  put  together  in  the  order  given,  beating  the 
egg  a  little ;  boil  until  thick,  stirring  constantly ;  add 
1  cup  whipped  cream. 

258.  Salad  Dressing 

Groups  F.  P.— St.  M.  S. 

2  eggs,  1  tablespoon  flour,  1  tablespoon  sugar,  1 
tablespoon  butter,  1  teaspoon  mustard,  1/2  cup  lemon 
juice,  14  cup  water;  mix  and  cook  until  it  thickens; 
when  cold,  add  cream  or  olive  oil. 

259.  Salad  Dressing  Variations 

Groups  (according  to  ingredients). 

Mayonnaise  or  boiled  salad  dressings  may  be  thinned 
with  cream  or  fruit  juice  for  variety. 

260.  Salad  Dressing  With  Onion  Flavor 

Groups  M.  F. 

To  y2  eup  oil  add  the  juice  of  1  lemon  and  a  pinch 
of  salt.  Beat  well,  then  add  the  juice  of  1  large  onion, 
or  1  grated  Spanish  onion. 


SALADS  109 

261.  Salad  Dressing  With  Parsley  Flavor 

Groups  M.  P. 

Follow  directions  as  in  the  foregoing  recipe,  adding 
finely  chopped  parsley  in  place  of  the  onion. 

262.  Sanitai'ium  Dressing 

Groups  F.  P.— M. 

Mix  1  cup  cream  with  1  cup  of  Neufchatel  cheese; 
add  2  tablespoons  of  minced  parsley  or  onion,  accord- 
ing to  taste. 

263.  Mustard  Salad  Dressing 

Groups  P.  M.  P. 

Into  the  well-beaten  yolk  of  1  egg  stir  Yo  teaspoon 
salt,  and  1  teaspoon  each  of  sugar  and  mustard,  also 
a  dash  of  white  pepper,  if  desired.  Beat  well,  add 
the  juice  of  1  lemon  and  at  the  last  a  large  cup  of 
cream,  little  by  little.  Stir  with  an  egg-beater  until 
light  and  foamy. 

264.  To  Prepare  Mustard  for  Table  Use 

Groups  M.  P.  P. — S. 

Mix  together  3  tablespoons  each  of  mustard  and 
sugar,  crushing  the  lumps;  add  1  egg;  beat  until  per- 
fectly smooth.  Add  1/2  cup  each  of  lemon  juice  and 
water;  let  come  to  boil  over  a  slow  fire;  add  butter 
the  size  of  a  walnut,  and  beat  thoroughly. 

265.  Nut  Butter  Dressing 

Groups  P.  P.  M.— S. 

Mix  well  1  part  lemon  juice  with  2  parts  nut  butter. 
Sweeten  to  taste. 


110  NATURE   CURE   COOK  BOOK 

266.  Thousand  Islands  Salad  Dressing  (1) 

Groups  F.— P.  M. 

Beat  smooth  1  raw  egg  and  the  yolk  of  1  hard- 
boiled  egg;  add  slowly  1  cup  olive  oil,  then  3  table- 
spoons lemon  juice,  3  tablespoons  chopped  pimentoes, 
and  3  tablespoons  chopped  olives ;  add  salt  and  paprika 
to  taste.  When  ready  to  serve,  add  1  bottle  whipped 
cream.     Serve  at  once  on  lettuce  hearts. 

267.  Thousand  Islands  Salad  Dressing  (2) 

Groups  M.  F.  P. 

1  cup  mayonnaise,  1  cup  whipped  cream,  2  hard- 
boiled  eggs,  2  sweet  peppers,  1  boiled  beet  and  1  Span- 
ish onion,  chopped  fine,  i/^  cup  celery,  cut  fine;  mix 
well  and  serve  on  lettuce. 

268.  Whipped  Cream  Dressing  (1) 

Groups  F.  M. 

Whip  cream  very  stiff;  to  1  pint  of  cream  add  the 
juice  of  1  lemon,  a  little  salt,  paprika,  and  a  little 
grated  onion.  For  variety,  1  tablespoon  of  chopped 
green  peppers,  minced  parsley,  raisins,  ripe  olives,  or 
pimentoes  may  be  added. 

269.  Whipped  Cream  Dressing  (2) 

Groups  F.  M. 

Whip  cream  very  stiff;  to  1  cup,  add  2  tablespoons 
of  boiled  dressing,  a  dash  of  paprika,  and  a  little  lemon 
juice. 


CROQUETTES 

Key  to  reference  letters:  St.  (Starches).  S.  (Sugars). 
F.  (Fats).    P.  (Proteids).     M.  (Mineral  Elements). 

Croquettes  prepared  from  protein  and  starchy  foods, 
such  as  roots,  tubers,  pulses,  cereals  and  nuts,  mixed 
with  vegetables  and  fruits,  take  in  the  vegetarian  diet 
the  place  of  the  meat-eater's  steaks,  chops  and  roasts. 
Many  of  the  recipes  herein  given  closely  resemble 
fried  meats  in  appearance  and  taste,  as  well  as  in 
similarity  of  elements  of  nutrition. 

"While  these  preparations  may  not  appeal  to  some 
of  our  vegetarian  friends,  who  prefer  their  food  in 
the  natural  form,  and  while  these  "near  meats"  may 
be  too  heavy  for  people  with  weak  digestions,  we  have 
added  a  number  of  recipes  of  palatable  vegetable  cro- 
quettes and  will  leave  their  use  or  non-use  to  individ- 
ual taste  and  judgment. 

General  Directions  for  Making  Croquettes 

In  mixing  the  ingredients  here  to  be  given,  for  the 
following  recipes,  have  the  mass  firm  enough  not  to 
fall  apart,  but  not  compact.  Likewise  the  croquettes 
should  be  handled  as  little  as  possible  in  shaping. 
Large  spoons  may  be  used  for  this  purpose.  In  order 
to  provide  a  firm  and  well-browned  outer  crust,  the 
croquettes  should  be  rolled  first  in  sifted  bread  or 
cracker  crumbs,  then  in  beaten  egg,  then  again  in 
crumbs. 

Ill 


112  NATURE   CURE   COOK   BOOK 

Frying  or  Baking — Which  is  Best? 

The  ordinary  restaurant  way  of  frying  breaded 
chops,  oysters,  potato  croquettes,  etc.,  by  dropping 
them  into  boiling  oil,  makes  these  foods  soggy,  indi- 
gestible and  unpalatable.  Better  than  this  is  careful 
frying  in  skillet  or  pan,  but  according  to  our  expe- 
rience, the  best  way  of  all  to  prepare  vegetable  cro- 
quettes is  the  baking  or  roasting. 

Frying  in  Oil 

The  croquettes  are  placed  in  a  frying  basket  and 
submerged  in  hot  oil;  when  well  done,  drain  and 
place  the  basket  on  soft  wrapping  paper.  There  must 
be  enough  hot  vegetable  oil,  or  pure  animal  fat  (butter 
or  oleomargarine),  to  cover  them  entirely.  The  oil 
must  be  very  hot,  but  should  not  smoke.  If  done 
carefully,  the  hot  oil  coming  in  contact  with  the  food 
will  form  a  soft  crust  and  prevent  the  oil  from  soak- 
ing in. 

After  use,  the  oil  may  be  clarified  by  heating  in  it 
a  few  slices  of  potatoes  and  carefully  pouring  it  from 
the  sediment.  It  may  then  be  used  again,  adding 
more  as  required. 

Skillet  or  Pan  Frying 

The  croquettes  are  rolled  in  bread  crumbs  and  beaten 
egg  ass  before  and  placed  in  a  well-buttered  or  oiled 
skillet  or  pan  and  turned  from  time  to  time  until 
well  browned. 

Baking 

Place  the  croquettes  on  a  hot,  buttered  gridiron  or 
agate  baking-pan,  and  place  in  a  very  hot  oven.     Let 


CROQUETTES,    ROASTS,    ETC.  113 

them  brown  nicely,  then  turn  and  brown  on  opposite 
side. 

CROQUETTES,  ROASTS,  ETC. 

270.  Piquant  Baked  Bean  Croquettes 

Groups  St.  P.  M.— F. 

Press  enough  baked  kidney  or  navy  beans  through 
a  colander  to  make  1  quart.  Add  2  tablespoons  grated 
horseradish,  2  tablespoons  olive  oil  or  melted  butter, 
salt,  1  chopped  sweet  pepper,  and,  if  desired,  a  little 
sage  or  thyme.  Place  2  tablespoons  of  this  mixture 
on  a  platter  or  board  covered  with  sifted  bread  crumbs, 
make  a  depression  in  the  center  of  each,  fill  with  1 
teaspoon  of  whole  baked  beans  and  a  few  drops  of 
tomato  sauce,  cover  with  another  tablespoon  of  the 
mixture,  shape  into  croquettes,  and  proceed  according 
to  general  directions. 

271.  Baked  Bean  Croquettes  (1) 

Groups  P.  F.  St. 

Press  1  quart  of  baked  beans  through  a  vegetable 
grinder ;  mix  with  %  cup  melted  butter,  2  well-beaten 
eggs,  and  a  little  chopped  parsley;  shape  into  cro- 
quettes, roll  in  yellow  com  meal,  fry  in  butter,  and 
serve  with  cream  sauce. 

272.  Baked  Bean  Croquettes  (2) 

Groups  St.  P.  F. — M. 

Press  cold  beans  through  a  sieve ;  add  2  tablespoons 
of  grated  horseradish;  shape  into  balls  with  a  tea- 
spoon of  whole  beans  in  the  center  of  each;  roll  in 
sifted  bread  crumbs,  then  in  beaten  egg,  again  in 
crumbs;   fry,  and  drain  on  paper;  serve  very  hot. 


114  NATURE   CURE   COOK  BOOK 

273.  Barley  Sausage 

Groups  £t.  P.  F.— M. 

To  1  quart  of  cooked  barley  add  2  well-beaten  eggs, 
4  tablespoons  melted  butter,  1  grated  Spanish  onion, 
a  little  sage  or  savory  and  seasoning  to  taste.  Shape 
into  small  sausages  and  brown.  Serve  with  tomato 
or  brown  sauce. 


274.         "Better  Than  Meat"  Croquettes 

Groups  St.  F.  P.— M. 

Soak  over  night  1  cup  dried  peas  and  1  pint  lentils. 
Cook  slowly  until  tender,  but  not  mushy ;  drain ;  when 
cold  run  through  a  vegetable  grinder  with  1  onion  and 
a  small  bunch  of  parsley.  Mix  well  with  1  cup  bread 
crumbs,  2  eggs,  4  tablespoons  cream,  seasoning  to  taste. 
If  desired,  add  a  little  sage  or  savory.  Shape  into 
croquettes  and  fry  in  equal  parts  butter  and  olive 
oil,  or  brown  in  the  oven. 


275.  Cannon  Cracker  Croquettes 

Groups  S.  M.  St.  F.  P. 

To  1  pint  of  grated  raw  carrots  add  6  crackers, 
rolled  fine,  1  tablespoon  melted  butter,  2  eggs,  1  table- 
spoon flour,  and  seasoning  to  taste;  shape  into  rolls 
about  the  size  of  cannon  crackers,  roll  in  beaten  egg 
and  cracker  crumbs,  and  fry  in  oil  until  brown  and 
crisp.  When  ready  to  serve  insert  a  root  fiber  from 
radishes  or  celery  in  each  end  to  represent  the  fusa. 
Serve  on  lettuce  with  slices  of  lemoiL 


CROQUETTES,    ROASTS,    ETC.  115 

276.  Cheese  Loaf 

Groups  F.  P.  St. — S. 

Grate  ^2  pound  of  cheese ;  mix  the  contents  of  1  can 
of  savory  protose  with  1  pint  coarse  bread  crumbs; 
put  a  layer  of  this  mixture  into  a  well-buttered  baking- 
dish,  sprinkle  thickly  with  cheese,  add  another  layer 
of  the  crumb  mixture,  more  cheese,  and  so  on  until  the 
dish  is  filled.  Dust  lightly  with  salt  and  a  little  red 
pepper,  pour  over  1  pint  of  milk,  and  let  stand  five 
minutes;  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  about  twenty  min- 
utes. Run  a  knife  blade  around  the  edge  of  the  pan, 
invert  the  loaf  on  a  heated  platter,  garnish  with  sprigs 
of  parsley,  and  serve  with  tomato  sauce. 


277.  Chestnut  Croquettes 

Groups  F.  P. — M. 

Shell  large  chestnuts,  boil,  remove  the  brown  skin, 
then  put  through  a  vegetable  grinder;  to  1  quart 
gi'ound  chestnuts  add  4  tablespoons  butter,  2  eggs, 
salt,  and  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice.  Shape  into  cro- 
quettes, and  fry. 


278.  Chestnut  Pie 

Groups  F.  P.  St.--M. 

Heat  2  onions,  chopped  fine,  in  butter  until  lightly 
browned;  mix  with  blanched  chestnuts,  cut  in  halves 
and  cooked  in  water  enough  to  cover  until  soft.  Sea- 
son to  taste,  pour  into  a  buttered  baking  dish  lined 
with  mashed  potatoes,  cover  with  a  layer  of  potatoes, 


116  NATURE   CURE   COOK   BOOK 

heat  thoroughly  in  the  oven,  letting  the  top  crust  get 
nicely  browned. 

Note : — This  dish  is  delicious  if  served  with  cran- 
berry sauce. 

279.  Chestnut  Roast  (1) 

Groups  F.  P.  St. 

Steam  1  pound  blanched  chestnuts  until  nearly  ten- 
der; run  through  a  vegetable  grinder  with  1  cup 
English  walnut  meats,  1  cup  cooked  lentils,  1  Spanish 
onion  and  a  little  parsley.  Add  4  well-beaten  eggs,  1 
cup  cream,  salt  to  taste,  and  enough  cracker  crumbs  to 
make  the  mixture  stiff  enough  for  molding.  Form 
1  or  more  loaves  and  bake  about  forty  minutes.  Baste 
occasionally  with  equal  parts  melted  butter  and  lemon 
juice.  Serve  garnished  with  parsley  and  slices  of 
lemon. 

280.  Chestnut  Roast  (2) 

Groups  F.  P.  St.— S.  M. 

Boil  1  pint  of  chestnuts;  remove  the  shells,  add  a 
little  salt,  then  grind  with  1  turnip,  1  carrot,  2  boiled 
potatoes,  2  stalks  celery,  2  sweet  peppers,  and  1  onion ; 
season  and  add  3  well-beaten  eggs,  4  tablespoons  melted 
butter  and  a  little  cream;  if  too  soft,  add  cracker 
crumbs ;  shape  into  a  loaf  and  bake ;  serve  with  brown 
gravy. 

281.  Chestnut  Rolls 

Groups  F.  P.  St.— M. 

1  cup  cooked  and  mashed  chestnuts,  2  eggs,  1  table- 
spoon minced  onion,  ^^  cup  bread  crumbs,  ^  cup 
cream,  and  seasoning.  Shape  into  rolls  and  brown. 
Serve  with  tomato  sauce. 


CROQUETTES,    ROASTS,    ETC.  117 

282.  Corn  Roast 

Groups  S.  F.  p.  M.  St. 

1  pint  sweet  com,  scraped  from  the  cob,  2  eggs,  V^ 
cup  cracker  crumbs,  1/2  cup  cream,  and  seasoning".  Stir 
together  and  bake  in  a  buttered  pan  until  brown. 

283.  Com  and  Nut  Roast 

Groups  F.  P.  S.  M.  St. 

2  cups  grated  corn,  1  cup  ground  nuts,  1  cup  cracker 
crumbs,  2  egg's,  I/2  cup  cream  and  1  small  onion, 
minced ;   season,  mix  well,  shape  into  loaves  and  bake. 

284.  Com  and  Nut  Loaf,  Steamed 

Groups  F.  P.  S.  St.— M. 

Mix  2  cups  grated  corn  with  1  cup  bread  cmmbs, 
14  cup  chopped  English  walnuts,  1  cup  milk,  2  well- 
beateu  eggs,  and  seasoning;  steam  until  it  becomes 
firm,  turn  out  on  a  hot  dish  and  brush  over  with 
beaten  egg,  cover  with  bread  crumbs,  and  set  in  the 
oven  to  bro\\Ti;    serve  with  any  sauce  preferred. 

285.  Egg  Plant  Croquettes 

Groups  St.  F.  P.— M.  S. 

Boil  2  egg  plants  until  tender,  drain  and  peel  while 
hot;  mash,  and  add  2  tablespoons  of  butter,  %  cup 
bread  cmmbs,  2  well-beaten  eggs,  and  seasoning;  cool 
and  form  into  croquettes;  dip  in  cracker  crumbs  and 
fry. 


118  NATURE   CURE   COOK   BOOK 

286.  Hungarian  Barley 

Groups  St.  P.  M.  S.  F. 

Wash  2  cups  barley,  pour  boiling  water  over,  and 
soak  over  night ;  put  on  to  cook  with  1  Spanish  onion, 
cut  in  dice,  2  carrots,  1  can  savory  protose,  1  sweet 
pepper,  and  3  or  4  tomatoes,  cut  fine ;  cook  until  ten- 
der, and  serve  with  brown  butter  or  tomato  sauce. 

287.  Jambalaya  Croquettes 

Groups  St.  M.  F.— P. 

2  cups  boiled  rice,  2  onions,  chopped  fine,  the  pulp 
of  4  tomatoes;  season,  add  melted  butter  and  2  well- 
beaten  egg's;  mix  well  and  let  cool;  shape  into  cro- 
quettes, dip  in  beaten  egg  and  cracker  crumbs,  and  fry. 
Serve  with  prunes. 

288.  Lentil  Croquettes 

Groups  St.  p.  F. — M. 

4  cups  cooked  lentils,  pressed  through  a  colander,  2 
eggs,  1  cup  bread  crumbs,  1  cup  onion  sauce  (see  Recipe 
No.  331,  "Sauces  for  Roasts,  etc.")  Mix  well,  season 
to  taste,  shape  into  croquettes  and  fry.  Serve  with 
sauce. 

289.  Lentil  and  Mushroom  Cutlets 

Groups  P.  St.  F. 

To  1  quart  cooked  and  mashed  lentils  add  1  cup 
each  of  fresh  muslirooms  and  bread  crumbs,  V^  cup 
chopped  walnuts,  and  2  eggs,  well  beaten.  Season  to 
taste.  Shape  into  cutlets,  roll  in  beaten  egg  and  sifted 
bread  crumbs  and  fry  in  butter  or  olive  oil  until  nicely 


CROQUETTES,   ROASTS,   ETC.  119 

browned.     Serve  garnished  with  lettuce  leaves  and  a 
ipoonful  of  jelly,  or  any  preferred  sauce. 

290.  Macaroni  and  Egg  Plant  Croquettes 

Groups  St.  F.  P.  M.— S. 

Cook  1  quart  of  macaroni  in  slightly  salted  boiling 
water  about  thirty  minutes;  drain;  when  cold,  run 
through  a  vegetable  grinder  with  the  same  quantity 
of  raw  egg  plant.  Add  3  or  4  eggs,  and  enough  bread 
crumbs  to  hold  the  mixture  together.  Shape,  roll  in 
flour  or  sifted  bread  crumbs  and  fry  until  nicely 
broAvned.    Serve  with  Sauce  Hollandaise. 

291.  Macaroni  Loaf,  Steamed 

Groups  P.  St.  P.— M. 

Cook  y2  pound  macaroni  in  boiliag  water  thirty  min- 
utes; drain  and  chop  fine;  add  1  can  savory  protose, 
broken  into  small  pieces,  1  egg,  seasoning,  and  1  cup 
good  white  sauce.  Put  into  a  buttered  mold,  and  steam 
two  hours.     Serve  with  tomato  sauce. 

292.  Mock  Whiteflsh  Cutlets 

Groups  St.  F.  P.— S.  M. 

Boil  4  ounces  of  ground  rice  in  1  pint  of  milk,  stirring 
constantly  until  it  thickens,  which  will  take  only  a  few 
minutes.  Add  2  tablespoons  grated  cheese,  butter  and 
seasoning  to  taste;  spread  the  mixtui*e  about  half  an 
inch  thick  on  a  platter  to  cool;  this  can  be  done  the 
day  before.  Cut  into  shapes  like  cutlets,  roll  in  sifted 
zwieback  crumbs,  and  fry  in  butter  to  a  light  brown. 
Garnish  with  sprigs  of  parsley,  and  serve  with  melted 
butter. 


120  NATURE   CURE   COOK  BOOK 

293.  Mock  Veal  Roast 

Groups  St.  F.  P.— S.  M. 

Soak  1  cup  lentils  and  1  cup  lima  beans  over  night; 
drain,  and  boil  until  tender;  drain  again  and  run 
through  a  vegetable  grinder  with  1  cup  shelled  pea- 
nuts; mix  with  2  tablespoons  melted  butter,  1  cup 
bread  crumbs,  2  eggs,  salt,  and  sufficient  milk  to  make 
the  right  consistency.  Shape  into  a  loaf  and  bake  in 
a  moderate  oven,  basting  frequently  with  melted 
butter. 

294.  Muk  Lou  Beh 

Groups  F.  P.  St.  S.  M. 

Chop  1/2  pound  of  nuts  rather  fine ;  put  into  a  fry- 
ing pan  with  2  tablespoons  melted  butter;  let  cook 
a  few  minutes,  then  turn  into  a  buttered  baking  dish ; 
cover  with  cooked  and  sliced  egg  plant  and  sprinkle 
with  salt,  minced  onion  and  parsley;  then  put  a  layer 
of  cooked  rice,  etc.,  until  the  dish  is  filled ;  cover  witl; 
well-seasoned  vegetable  stock;  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven. 

295.  Nut  Croquettes 

Groups  r.  P.  St.— M.  S. 

Mix  well  1  cup  each  of  chopped  nuts  (English  wal- 
nuts, filberts,  almonds  and  Brazil  nuts)  and  whole 
wheat  bread  crumbs  soaked  in  y^  cup  of  milk,  1  ^gg^ 
and  seasoning  to  taste.  Shape  into  croquettes,  roll  in 
beaten  tgg  and  bread  cnunbs,  and  fry  according  to 
general  directions. 


CEOQUETTES,   ROASTS,   ETC  121 

296.  Nut  and  Celery  Croquettes 

Groups  F.  P.  St.  M.  S. 

1  pint  ground  nuts,  2  pints  minced  celery,  1  cup 
grated  caxrots ;  add  2  cups  bread  crumbs,  i^  cup  flour, 
2  tablespoons  melted  butter,  2  eggs,  and  seasoning; 
mix  well,  form  into  croquettes,  fry,  and  serve  with 
cream  sauce. 

297.  Nut  Loaf 

Groups  F.  P.  St. — ^P.  S. 

Put  through  a  vegetable  grinder  sufficient  nut  meats 
to  measure  1^/2  cups, — almonds,  English  Walnuts,  hazel 
and  hickory  nuts  may  be  used,  also  butternuts  and 
black  walnuts, — but  the  latter  should  be  taken  spar- 
ingly, because  of  their  pronoimced  flavor;  add  to  the 
chopped  nuts,  1  pint  stale  bread  crumbs,  salt,  and  1 
teaspoon  of  any  kind  of  sweet  herbs.  Mix  well  and 
add  sufficient  boiling  water  to  moisten;  cover  closely 
and  let  stand  for  ten  minutes  to  swell,  then  add  another 
cup  of  hot  water  and  turn  into  a  well-greased  loaf 
pan.  Bake  for  one  hour  in  a  moderate  oven  and  serve 
hot  with  brown  or  tomato  sauce.  This  dish  may  also 
be  served  cold,  sliced,  with  mayonnaise  dressing. 

298.  Nut  Loaf  With  Rice 

Groups  St.  F.  P. — S.  M. 

Mix  together  2  cups  cooked  rice  and  1  cup  ground 
nut  meats;  add  2  cups  milk  and  a  little  salt.  Fill  a 
shallow  baking  pan,  sprinkle  with  fine  bread  crumbs 
and  grated  cheese  and  bake  about  thirty  minutes. 
Serve  with  any  preferred  sauce. 


122  J^ATURE   CURE   COOK  BOOK 

299.  Fried  Nut  Loaf 
Groups  F.  P.  St.— S.  M. 

2  cups  mashed  sweet  potatoes,  mixed  while  hot  with 

1  cup  finely  chopped  or  ground  nut  meats,  1  beaten  egg, 

2  tablespoons  melted  butter,  seasoning  to  taste.  Press 
into  a  square  tin;  when  cold  cut  into  half -inch  slices, 
dip  in  beaten  egg  and  bread  crumbs,  and  fry  quickly 
until  browned  in  equal  parts  butter  and  olive  oil. 

300.  Unfired  Nut  Loaf 

Groups  F.  P.— St.  M.  S. 
1  cup  ground  almonds,  2  tablespoons  each  English 
walnuts  and  rolled  oats,  pounded  together.  Mix  all, 
moisten  with  sweet  milk  or  cream,  season  with  celery 
salt  and  a  little  paprika;  pack  into  a  mold  and  place 
in  the  refrigerator  for  one  hour.  Turn  out,  garnish 
with  sprigs  of  parsley,  and  serve  with  slices  of  lemon. 

301.  Nut  and  Cheese  Koast 

Groups  F.  P.  St.  S.  M. 
Chop  1  onion  fine,  cook  a  few  minutes  in  a  table- 
spoon of  melted  butter ;  add  a  little  water,  mix  with  1 
cup  bread  crumbs,  1  cup  grated  cheese,  and  1  cup 
chopped  English  walnuts;  add  the  juice  of  1  lemon, 
2  eggs  well-beaten;  season  to  taste,  and  add  more 
bread  crumbs  if  necessary;  turn  into  a  buttered  bak- 
ing dish  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  Serve  with 
white  sauce. 

302.  Nut  Roll 
Groups  St.  F.  P.  S.  M. 

Boil  6  good-sized  potatoes,  then  peel  and  grate  them ; 
add  3  dozen  rolled  crackers,  II/2  cups  nuts,  1  large 


CnOQUETTES,   ROASTS,   ETC.  123 

onion  chopped,  and  a  little  sage;  make  a  hollow  in 
the  center,  then  pour  in  4  well-beaten  eggs,  2  table- 
spoons oil,  seasoning  to  taste.  Mix  thoroughly, 
then  pack  into  a  roll  and  place  in  a  buttered  baking 
pan ;  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  one  hour ;  baste 
with  melted  butter  and  lemon  juice. 

303.  Nut  Scrapple 
Groups  St.  F.  P.  S. 

Stir  1  cup  com  meal,  i/^  cup  hominy  meal,  and  a 
little  salt,  into  a  double  boiler  containing  about  1  quart 
boiling  water;  stir  constantly  at  first,  and  cook  until 
thoroughly  done,  at  least  one  hour;  then  add  1  cup 
nuts  chopped  fine ;  turn  into  a  buttered  pan,  set  aside 
to  cool;    slice  into  suitable  pieces  and  fry. 

304.  Parsnip  and  Walnut  Croquettes 

Groups  F.  P.  St.— S.  M. 

Peel  and  steam  6  parsnips  until  tender;  when  cool, 
press  through  a  colander;  add  1  cup  of  chopped  wal- 
nuts, 14  cup  cream,  2  eggs  and  seasoning.  Form  into 
croquettes  and  fry. 

305.  Rice  Croquettes  With  Cheese  Sauce 

Groups  St.  F.  P.— M.  S. 

Put  1  cup  washed  rice  into  1  pint  of  boiling  water; 
cook  until  tender,  then  add  1  pint  boiling  milk,  2  table- 
spoons chopped  pimento,  salt  to  taste,  and  i/^  cup 
chopped  nuts.  Shape  into  croquettes,  dip  in  crumbs 
and  fry.     Serve  with  cheese  sauce  made  as  follows :     ' 

Melt  i^  cup  butter ;  add  4  tablespoons  flour,  and  stir 
until  well  blended ;   then  add  as  much  hot  milk  as  de- 


124  NATURE   CURE   COOK  BOOK 

sired.    Bring  to  boiling  point,  add  1  cup  grated  cheese, 
season,  and  serve. 

306.  Rice  Roast  (White  Loaf) 

Groups  St.  M.  F.  P. 

Mix  2  cups  cold  cooked  rice,  2  tomatoes  and  1 
onion,  chopped  fine,  1  cup  raw  peanut  meal;  add 
seasoning,  form  into  loaf,  and  bake  about  forty  min- 
utes. Baste  occasionally  with  equal  parts  hot  water 
and  melted  butter.     Serve  with  any  suitable  sauce. 

307.  Rice  and  Sultana  Raisin  Croquettes 

Groups  F.  St.  S.— P.  M. 
Pick  the  stems  from  1  cup  of  sultana  raisins  and  wash 
thoroughly ;  add  1  cup  blanched  rice  and  3  cups  milk. 
Let  cook  until  tender,  adding  more  milk  if  needed, 
and  1  teaspoon  salt  when  half  cooked.  When  tender 
add  the  beaten  yolks  of  2  eggs,  l^  cup  each  of  butter 
and  sugar  and  a  little  more  rice  if  liked;  mix  thor- 
oughly and  set  aside  to  become  cold.  Form  into  balls 
or  cylinders,  dip  in  egg,  roll  in  bread  crumbs,  then  fry 
in  butter  or  olive  oil.  Serve  with  any  preferred 
sauce. 

308.  Sanitarium  Roast 

Groups  St  P.  F.  M.— S. 
Soak  1  quart  of  lima  beans  over  night;  cover  with 
cold  water  and  let  cook  until  almost  soft;  grind  fine 
with  1  cup  walnuts,  then  add  about  6  chopped  toma- 
toes, 1/4  cup  olive  oil,  and  seasoning  to  taste.  Shape 
into  loaves  and  bake  in  a  well-buttered  baking  pan 
about  forty  minutes,  then  brown.  Baste  frequently 
with  equal  parts  lemon  juice  and  melted  butter.  Serve 
hot,  garnished  with  onion  rings. 


CROQUETTES,    ROASTS,   ETC.  125 

309.  Stuffed  Egg  Plant  Witli  Nut  Sauce 

Groups  St.  F.  P.  M.— S. 
Boil  egg  plant  fifteen  minutes ;  take  from  the  stove 
and  cut  in  halves.  When  cool  enough  to  handle,  scoop 
out  the  pulp  (without  breaking  the  shell),  mash  and 
season  well,  adding  a  large  tablespoon  of  butter. 
Add  a  scant  pint  of  grated  bread  crumbs,  1  teaspoon 
of  onion  juice,  and  1  well-beaten  egg.  Fill  the  shell 
with  this  mixture  and  bake  until  browned  on  top. 
Serve  with  nut  sauce,  which  may  be  made  by  adding 
1  cup  chopped  nuts  to  any  good  cream  sauce. 

310.  Vegetarian  Croquettes 

Groups  r.  St.  P.— S.  M. 
Blend  2  tablespoons  butter  with  2  of  flour;  have 
ready  ^/^  cup  scalded  milk,  stir  in  the  creamed  butter 
and  flour,  and  cook  until  smooth  and  creamy,  then  add 
the  beaten  yolks  of  2  eggs,  li/^  to  2  cups  cold  macaroni, 
minced  fine,  1/2  cup  ground  roasted  peanuts,  and  sear- 
soning  to  taste.  Mix  thoroughly  and  turn  out  on 
shallow  dishes  to  cool ;  when  cold,  shape,  roll  in  bread 
crumbs,  and  fry  in  hot  oil  or  cocoa  butter;  serve  with 
tomato  sauce. 

311.  Vegetarian  Sausages 

Groups  St.  P.  p.— M. 
Cook  fresh  lima  or  navy  beans.  When  soft,  mash 
through  a  colander,  add  a  generous  piece  of  butter, 
seasoning,  and  a  little  powdered  sage.  Shape  into 
small  sausages,  dip  first  in  beaten  egg,  then  in  corn- 
meal  or  sifted  bread  crumbs.  Brown  on  all  sides  in 
butter  or  olive  oil.  Serve  on  lettuce  leaves,  with  any 
preferred  sauce. 


126  NATUEE   CUBE   COOK  BOOK 

312.  Vegetable  Roast 

Groups  M.  S.  St.  F.  P. 

Pare  and  cut  into  large  dice  equal  parts  of  carrots, 
turnips,  parsnips  and  German  celery  roots,  enough  to 
make  2  quarts,  and  cook  until  tender.  Chop  fine,  mix 
with  1  large  Spanish  onion  and  a  handful  of  minced 
parsley.  Add  1  cup  cracker  crumbs,  1  cup  green  peas, 
fresh  or  canned,  2  well-beaten  eggs,  l^  cup  cream  and 
seasoning  to  taste.  Bake  in  a  well-buttered  pan  until 
nicely  browned.     Serve  hot  with  tomato  sauce. 

313.  Vegetable  Turkey 

Groups  F.  P.  St.  M.  S, 

2  cups  each  of  mixed  nuts,  chopped  or  ground,  and 
coarse  whole  wheat  bread  crumbs,  1  cup  cream,  2  eggs, 
salt,  paprika  and  powdered  sage.  Mix  well,  shape 
into  a  loaf  somewhat  resembling  a  dressed  turkey. 
Place  in  a  baking  pan,  surround  with  pared  and  quar- 
tered potatoes,  and  roast  about  thirty  minutes  until 
the  potatoes  are  tender  and  the  loaf  nicelj'"  browned. 
Baste  with  equal  parts  hot  water  and  melted  butter. 
Transfer  carefully  to  a  heated  platter,  garnish  with 
parsley  and  sections  of  lemon.  Serve  in  a  border  of 
the  roasted  potatoes,  with  brown  gravy  and  cranberry 
sauce. 

314.  Yellow  Pea  Cutlets,  With  Mint  Sauce 

Groups  St.  P.  F.  M.— S. 

Soak  1  pint  of  yellow  peas  over  night;  cook  until 
tender  but  not  mushy,  with  just  enough  water  to  cover, 
then  mash  through  a  colander.  Add  1  grated  onion, 
2  eggs,  seasoning,  2  tablespoons  horseradish  and  enough 


SAUCES  rOB  VEGETABLES  AND   ROASTS  127 

bread  crumbs  to  make  a  faii-ly  stiff  dough.  Shape 
into  cutlets  and  keep  on  ice  for  an  hour,  then  roll 
in  beaten  egg  and  cracker  crumbs  and  fry  brown. 

For  IVIint  Sauce,  see  Sauces  for  Croquettes,  Roasts, 
etc. 

SAUCES  FOE  VEGETABLES  AND  EOASTS 

315.  White  Sauce 
Groups  F.  St.— S.  P. 

Rub  1  tablespoon  flour  and  2  tablespoons  butter 
to  a  smooth  cream.  Heat  2  cups  water  or  milk  to  boil- 
ing, and  add  gradually  the  flour  and  butter,  stirring 
constantly  until  perfectly  blended.  Add  salt  to  taste 
and  boil  one  minute.  If  an  especially  rich  sauce  is 
desired,  cream  may  be  used  instead  of  milk, 

316.  Bread  Sauce 

(A  good  way  to  use  stale  bread.) 
Groups  St.  P.  M.  S. 

Quarter  and  cook  1  large  onion  and  1  green  sweet 
pepper  in  11/2  pints  milk  (or  half  milk  and  half  water) 
until  quite  soft,  then  strain.  Pour  the  strained  liquid 
over  stale  grated  whole  wheat  bread.  In  about  an 
hour  put  the  soaked  bread  in  a  saucepan,  add  butter 
rubbed  smooth  with  a  little  flour,  and  more  milk,  if 
necessary.  Let  the  whole  boil  up  together,  strain,  and 
serve  hot. 

317.  Brown  Butter  Sauc« 

Groups  F.  S.  St.  P. 

Heat  2  tablespoons  butter  with  1  of  sugar  in  a  iauco- 
pan.     "When  brown,  sift  into  it  2  tablespoon*  whole 


128  NATURE   CURE   COOK  BOOK 

wheat  flour.  Stir  until  smooth  and  well  browned,  but 
prevent  burning.  Add  1  cup  boiling  water  or  stock 
and  season  to  taste. 

313.  Brown  Gravy 

Groups  F.  M.  S.  St.— P. 

Put  a  fairly  large  piece  of  butter  into  a  skillet,  let 
brown  with  1  onion,  sliced,  and  1  tablespoon  sugar. 
Add  %  cup  flour  and  keep  stirring  about  five  minutes. 
Add  sufficient  vegetable  stock  to  make  the  right  con- 
sistency, season,  and  strain.  1  cup  sour  cream  may 
be  added  if  desired. 

319.  ,         Brown  Raisin  Sauce 

Groups  S.  M.— St.  F. 

Cook  1  cup  raisins  until  tender  with  6  whole  peppers, 
2  bay  leaves,  and  a  few  cloves;  thicken  with  flour 
blended  with  butter;  season,  add  V2  cup  brown  sugar 
and  the  juice  of  2  lemons. 

320.  Caper  Sauce 

Groups  F.  St.— S.  P.  M. 

To  white  sauce  (made  as  directed  in  Recipe  No.  315) 
add  2  tablespoons  capers,  with  an  equal  amount  of 
juice.  If  desired,  flavor  with  lemon  juice. 

321.  Chestnut  Sauce 
Groups  F.  P.— S.  M. 

Put  %  pound  shelled  chestnuts  into  boiling  water 
for  about  five  minutes,  rub  off  the  skins,  cook  in  a 
small  amount  of  salted  water  until  tender,  and  rub 


SAUCES  FOR  VEGETABLES  AND   ROASTS  129 

through  a  sieve.  Return  to  the  fire,  add  1  cup  r"^1k 
or  cream,  season  to  taste,  add  butter,  let  boil  up  once, 
and  serve. 

322.  Curry  Sauce  to  Serve  With  Vegetables 

Groups  M.  F.— St.  S.  P. 

Melt  1  tablespoon  butter  in  a  saucepan;  stir  into  it 
1  large  onion  minced  fine;  let  simmer  seven  or  eight 
minutes,  then  add  1  sour  apple,  minced  fine;  stir  for 
three  or  four  minutes ;  add  1  cup  good  vegetable  stock 
and  cook  gently  for  five  minutes;  add  1  cup  milk  in 
■which  1  dessertspoon  of  curry  powder  has  been  stirred 
until  smooth.  Let  all  boil  up  at  once,  strain,  season, 
and  thicken  with  flour  and  butter,  blended. 

323.  Egg  Sauce 
Groups  F.  St.— S.  P. 

To  white  sauce  add  the  yolks  of  2  hard-boiled  eggs 
pressed  through  a  coarse  sieve,  also  a  little  minced 
parsley. 

324.  Sauce  Hollandaise  (1) 

Groups  F.— St.  M.  S.  P. 

Make  a  white  sauce  as  directed  in  Recipe  No.  315. 
Take  from  the  fire,  add  gradually  the  yolk  of  1  egg, 
well  beaten,  1  tablespoon  salad  oil,  salt  and  sugar  to 
taste,  and  the  juice  of  1/2  lemon.  Beat  well  together 
and  serve  at  once. 

825.  Sauce  Hollandaise  (2) 

Groups  F.  M. 

Soften  1  cup  butter,  then  beat  until  soft  and  creamy ; 
add  the  yolks  of  3  eggs,  one  by  one,  and,  when  these 


130  NATURE   CURE   COOK  BOOK 

are  thoroughly  incorporated,  1  cup  boiling  water;  cook 
in  the  double  boiler  until  a  thick  cream,  then  add  the 
juice  of  1  lemon,  one  drop  at  a  time ;  be  very  sure  to 
add  the  lemon  juice  slowly,  or  sauce  will  curdle;  sea- 
son after  removal  from  fire. 

326.  Horseradish  Sauce 

Groups  M.  S.  St.— p. 

To  2  cups  boiling  stock  add  1  cup  cleaned  currants ; 
thicken  with  cracker  crumbs;  add  butter  and  sugar 
and  as  much  grated  horseradish  as  desired. 

327.  Cream  Horseradish  Sauce 

Groups  F.  S.  M.— St.  P. 

Make  a  cream  sauce  according  to  Recipe  No.  315.  To 
1  quart  of  sauce  add  1  cup  raisins,  1  cup  grated  horse- 
radish, sugar  and  seasoning  to  taste;  let  boil  a  few 
minutes  and  serve. 

328.  Mint  Sauce 
Groups  M.  S. 

Mix  1  cup  fresh  mint,  chopped  fine,  l^  cup  brown 
sugar,  and  %  cup  lemon  juice,  and  let  stand  one  hour. 
Before  serving,  heat  until  warm,  but  do  not  boil. 

329.  Mushroom  Sauce 

Groups  P.  F. — M. 

Clean  and  wash  1  quart  of  fresh  mushrooms,  cut  in 
two,  put  into  a  stewpan  with  a  little  salt,  whole  pepper 
and  butter;  stew  gently  for  half  an  hour,  then  add 
y^  pint  cream  and  the  yolks  of  2  well-beaten  eggs. 
Keep  stirring  until  it  boils,  when  it  is  ready  to  serve. 


SAUCES  FOR   VEGETABLES  AND   ROASTS  131 

330.  Nut  Sauce 
Groups  F.  P.  St.— S.  M. 

Add  finely  chopped  English,  walnuts  or  pccazs  to 
white  sauce  or  any  other  suitable  sauce, 

331.  Onion  Sauce  (1) 

Groups  M.  F.  St.  S.— P. 

Peel  and  cut  2  or  3  onions,  cook  in  small  quantity  of 
water  until  tender,  and  chop  fine.  Add  white  sauce, 
made  as  directed  in  Recipe  No.  31^;  season  to  taste, 
let  boil,  and  serve  at  once. 

332.  Onion  Sauce  (2) 

Groups  M.  F.— St.  S.  P. 

Slice  onions,  let  brown  in  butter,  add  a  little  flour 
and  enough  stock  to  make  the  right  consistency;  cook 
for  a  few  minutes  and  season;    do  not  strain. 

333.  Plain  Tomato  Sauce 

Groups  M.— St.  F.  S. 

Cut  up  tomatoes  to  make  1  pint,  and  cook  with  1 
onion  about  ten  minutes.  Add  1  tablespoon  flour 
blended  with  an  equal  amount  of  butter.  Let  boil  a 
few  minutes,  then  add  1  teaspoon  sugar,  also  salt  to 
taste.     Strain. 

334.  Tomato  Sauce  (1) 

Groups  M.  St  F.  S. 

Put  1  pint  tomatoes,  fresh  or  canned,  into  an  agate 
or  aluminum  saucepan.     Add  1  stalk  celery,  1  large 


132  NATURE   CURE   COOK  BOOK 

slice  onion,  a  sprig  of  parsley,  1  pepper,  G  cloves,  1 
bay  leaf.  Cover,  let  simmer  twenty  minutes,  and  strain 
through  a  coarse  sieve.  Add  a  pinch  of  salt,  1  tea- 
spoon sugar,  1  tablespoon  lemon  juice,  and  keep  in  a 
cool  place  until  wanted.  Thicken  with  flour  blended 
with  butter. 

335.  Tomato  Sauce  (2) 

Groups  M.— S.  St,  F. 

Brown  2  slices  carrot  and  1  sliced  onion  in  2  table- 
spoons butter;  add  1  quart  tomato  juice,  a  few  sprigs 
parsley,  1  bay  leaf,  and  seasoning  to  taste.  Let  simmer 
twenty  minutes  and  strain.  Rub  2  tablespoons  flour 
to  a  smooth  paste  with  little  water  and  add  to  the 
strained  liquid.     Let  boil  about  three  minutes. 

336.  Tomato  Sauce  With  Baisins 

Groups  M.— S.  St.  F. 

Cook  5  or  6  tomatoes  in  a  small  quantity  of  water 
about  ten  minutes.  Add  1  cup  vegetable  stock,  1  bay 
leaf,  a  little  salt,  and  1  teaspoon  flour  blended  with  1 
tablespoon  of  butter.  Cook  all  together  until  it  begins 
to  thicken,  strain  through  a  sieve,  and  add  ^  cup 
seedless  raisins.     Reheat  and  serve. 

337.  Tomato  and  Pepper  Sauce 

Groups  M.  S. 

Scal'd  tomatoes  and  rub  tlu-ough  a  fine  sieve;  to  1 
cup  tomatoes  add  1  green  pepper,  chopped  fine,  1 
onion,  2  tablespoons  sugar,  a  little  salt,  and  the  juice 
of  1  lemon;  cook  about  half  an  hour  and  serve  with 
roast  or  croquettes. 


SAUCES   FOR   VEGET.VBLES  AND   ROASTS  133 

338.  Spanish  Sauce 

Groups  M.— St.  F.  S. 

To  1  quart  of  white  stock,  add  3  onions,  3  peppers, 
3  tomatoes  cut  in  strips,  and  1  cup  mushrooms;  let 
cook  until  tender;  thicken  with  flour  blended  with 
butter,  and  season  well. 


VEGETABLES 

Key  to  reference  letters:  St.  (Starches).  0,  (Sugars). 
F.   (Fats).     P.  (Proteids).     M.  (Mineral  Elements). 

Leafy  and  Juicy  Vegetables 

Leafy  and  juicy  vegetables  are  the  most  valuable 
foods  of  the  mineral  salts  group  (Group  V).  While 
the  juicy,  acid  and  sub-acid  fruits  average  from  twenty 
to  fifty  parts  per  thousand  of  the  positive  mineral 
salts  of  iron,  sodium,  lime,  magnesium  and  potassium, 
the  non-starchy,  leafy  and  juicy  vegetables  average 
from  seventy  to  one  hundred  and  fifty  parts  per  thou- 
sand of  these  all-important,  physiological  and  medic- 
inal mineral  elements. 

On  pages  400,  401  we  have  dilated  upon  the  value  of 
these  positive,  alkaline,  mineral  elements  as  neutral- 
izers  and  eliminators  of  poisonous  acids  and  alkaloids, 
as  blood,  nerve  and  bone  builders,  as  the  principal 
ingredients  in  all  the  important  secretions  of  the  body, 
and  as  generators  and  conductors  of  electro-magnetic 
energy.  "We  called  attention  to  the  fact  that  the  juices 
of  fmits  and  vegetables,  prepared  in  Nature's  own 
laboratory,  supply  in  the  best  possible  form  the  de- 
mands for  fluids  in  the  animal  and  human  body.  They 
are  natural  tonics,  cholagogues  and  purifiers.  They 
dilute  and  hold  in  solution  the  morbid,  colloid  products 
of  starchy  and  protein  digestion.  The  large  amount 
of  woody  fiber  (cellulose)  contained  in  the  vegetables 
furnishes  solid  resistance  to  the  intestines  and  thereby 

134 


VEGETABLES  135 

stimulates  their  peristaltic  movements  and  makes  very 
efficient  scourers,  purifiers  and  natural  laxatives. 

Richest  in  the  positive  mineral  elements  are  cabbage, 
spinach,  lettuce,  watercress,  savoy  cabbage,  endive, 
rose  kale,  Brussels  sprouts,  Scotch  kale,  leek,  celery 
and  parsley.  Next  to  these  rank  tomatoes,  cucumbers, 
radishes,  onions,  horseradish,  green  peppers,  aspara- 
gus and  cauliflower. 

Splendid  cooling  and  refreshing  summer  foods,  rich 
in  the  purifying  organic  salts,  are  the  watermelons, 
muskmelons,  cantaloupes,  pumpkins,  squashes,  and 
other  members  of  the  melon  family. 

The  Preparation  and  Cooking  of  Vegetables 

Most  vegetables  and  fruits  are  not  improved  by 
cooking.  However,  many  diet  reformers  go  to  extremes 
when  they  claim  that  all  or  nearly  all  the  organic 
mineral  combinations  in  vegetables  and  fruits  are  ren- 
dered inorganic  through  cooking.  This  is  an  exag- 
geration. Cooking  is  merely  a  mechanical  process  of 
subdivision,  not  a  chemical  one,  and  mechanical  proc- 
esses of  subdivision  do  not  disorganize  organic  mole- 
cules to  any  great  extent. 

However,  it  remains  true  that  the  fruits  and  vege- 
tables mentioned  under  group  five  are  not  improved 
by  cooking. 

Starchy  vegetables  and  cereals  only  are  improved  by 
cooking,  and  this  is  so  because  through  ages  of  abuse 
our  digestive  organs  have  lost  the  power  to  digest  and 
assimilate  raw  starch.  The  cooking  serves  to  break  up 
and  separate  the  hard 'starch  granules  and  to  facilitate 
the  penetration  of  the  digestive  juices. 

After  the  ieaiy  vegetables  are  thoroughly  cleansed 


136  NATURE  CURE   COOK  BOOK 

and  ready  for  cooking,  place  them  in  the  cooking  ves- 
sel, add  just  enough  water  to  keep  them  from  burning, 
then  cover  and  allow  to  simmer  slowly  in  their  own 
juices.  The  leafy  vegetables,  such  as  spinach,  cabbage, 
kale,  etc.,  contain  enough  water  for  their  own  cooking. 

Do  not  waste  any  of  the  juices,  because  they  contain 
most  of  the  mineral  elements.  "When  cooking  such 
vegetables  as  carrots,  beets,  asparagus,  parsnips,  oyster- 
plant,  etc.,  which  require  considerable  water  for  boil- 
ing, do  not  throw  away  the  water,  but  use  it  for  the 
making  of  soups  and  sauces.  All  vegetables  may  be 
steamed  instead  of  boiled,  if  preferred. 

If  the  vegetables,  as  is  the  usual  custom,  are  boiled 
in  large  quantities  of  water,  then  drained,  or  what  is 
still  worse,  pressed  out  and  seasoned  with  soup  stock, 
strong  condiments  and  spices,  they  have  lost  their 
nutritive  and  medicinal  value.  The  mineral  salts  have 
vanished  in  the  sink,  the  remains  have  become  insipid 
and  indigestible  and  therefore  have  to  be  highly  sea- 
soned in  order  to  make  them  palatable. 

Asparagus 

Asparagus  runs  low  in  protein  (2%)  and  starches 
and  sugar  (2%),  but  high  in  the  five  positive  mineral 
elements,  about  50  per  mill. 

339.  Asparagus  in  Ambush 

Groups  M.  F.— P.  St. 

To  a  cream  sauce  made  with  1  tablespoon  each  of 
butter,  flour  and  2  cups  milk,  add  2  well-beaten  eggs. 
Stir  over  the  fire  until  it  thickens,  then  add  2  dozen 
stalks  of  asparagus,  cut  fine  and  steamed.     Season  to 


VEGETABLES  137 

taste.  Cut  the  tops  from  12  large  biscuits  or  rolls, 
scrape  out  the  soft  inside  part,  and  put  them  into  the 
oven  to  crisp.  Fill  them  with  the  asparagiis,  replace 
the  tops,  and  brown  quickly  in  hot  oven. 


340.  Asparagus  with  Sour  Cream 

Groups  M.  F. — St. 

Tie  young  asparagus  in  small  bunches  and  cook  until 
tender  in  water  enough  to  cover,  then  remove  from  the 
water  and  keep  in  a  heated  dish  until  ready  to  serve. 
Make  a  cream  sauce  with  2  tablespoons  butter  and  1 
of  flour,  the  asparagus  water,  and  1  cup  of  thick  sour 
cream.  Pour  over  the  asparagus  and  serve  on  squares 
of  toast. 

341.  Asparagus  Tips 

Groups  M.  St.  P.— P. 

Cut  off  the  tips  of  about  2  dozen  stalks  of  asparagus. 
Put  them  into  a  saucepan  with  enough  cold  water  to 
barely  cover,  and  a  little  salt.  Cook  until  tender  and 
arrange  tips  on  squares  of  diagonal  cuts  of  toast  and 
pour  a  rich  cream  sauce  over  them.  Serve  on  a  heated 
platter. 

342.  Asparagus  on  Toast 

Groups  M.  St.  r.— P. 

Cook  tender  asparagus  in  slightly  salted  water,  ar- 
range  on  toast  moistened  •with  some  of  the  water,  pour 
brown  butter  over  all,  and  serve  on  a  heated  platter 
with  slices  of  lemon. 


188  NATURE   CURE   COOK   BOOK 

343.  Asparagus  and  Carrots 

Groups  M.  F.  S. 

Cut  young  carrots  in  strips  and  cook  in  water  enough 
to  cover,  about  fii'teen  minutes.  Add  an  equal  amount 
of  asparagus,  cut  into  inch-long  pieces,  butter  and  a 
little  salt  and  cook  slowly  until  tender.  If  desired, 
thicken  with  flour  blended  with  butter. 

344.  Asparagus  and  Green  Peas 

Groups  M.  F.  S.— P. 

Cook  together  equal  parts  of  young  green  peas  and 
asparagus,  cut  into  small  pieces.  Add  butter  and  salt, 
thicken  with  flour,  blended  with  butter. 

345.  Asparagus  a  la  Sanitarium 

Groups  M.  F.— St.  S.  P. 

Cut  2  bunches  asparagus  and  1  bunch  carrots  to  uni. 
form  sizes.  Boil  and  drain.  Cut  strips  of  bread  same 
length  as  asparagus;  fry  a  nice  brown.  Arrange  as- 
paragus and  bread  strips  on  a  round  platter.  Place  a 
border  of  carrots  around  it  and  pour  over  the  follow- 
ing sauce :  Blend  3  tablespoons  butter  with  3  of  flour, 
add  the  water  the  asparagus  and  carrots  were  cooked 
in;  season;  boil  to  the  right  consistency. 

346.  Escalloped  Asparagus 

Groups  M.  F.  P.— St. 

Boil  or  steam  4  dozen  stalks  asparagus  in  slightly 
salted  water  about  fifteen  minutes.  Into  a  well-but- 
tered baking  dish  put  alternate  layers  of  asparagus 
and  coarse  bread  crumbs,  finishing  with  a  layer  of 


VEGET.VBLES  139 

crumbs.  Pour  over  this  3  eggs  beaten  well  with  1  quart 
of  seasoned  milk.  Dust  with  grated  nutmeg  or  mace. 
Put  bits  of  butter  on  top  and  bake  thirty  minutes. 

347.  Creamed  Asparagus 

Groups  M.  F.— St. 

Cut  asparagus  into  inch-long  pieces,  cook  in  a  small 
quantity  of  water  until  tender.  Make  a  cream  sauce  of 
1  tablespoon  of  butter  and  flour  and  1  cup  of  milk  or 
cream.  Add  the  asparagus,  let  boil  up  a  few  times, 
then  serve  at  once  on  a  heated  platter  with  a  border 
of  roasted  potatoes. 

348.  Steamed  Asparagus 

Groups  M.— F.  P. 

Steam  nice  tender  asparagus  in  a  steamer  or  colan- 
der fitting  into  a  large  kettle.  Serve  either  with  egg 
sauce  or  Sauce  HoUandaise. 

349.  Stewed  Asparagus 

Groups  M.  F. 

Break  the  tender  portions  of  about  2  dozen  stalks 
of  asparagus  into  small  pieces.  Heat  3  tablespoons  of 
butter  with  2  of  water.  Drop  the  asparagus  into  it 
and  cover  tightly.  Let  simmer  until  tender.  Garnish 
with  sprays  of  parsley  and  serve. 

BEANS 

350.  String  Beans  and  Apples 

Groups  M.  F. 

To  1  quart  of  string  beans,  cut  into  inch-long  pieces, 
add  6  tart  apples,  peeled,   cored  and  cut  into  dice. 


140  NATURE  CURE  COOK  BOOK 

Cover  with  cold  water  and  cook  until  tender.    Add  but- 
ter and  season  to  taste. 

Note: — Wax  beans  and  prunes  may  be  prepared  in 
the  same  manner. 

351.  String  Beans  and  Tomatoes 

Groups  M.  F.— St.  P.  8. 

String  and  break  into  pieces  1  quart  of  green  beans 
and  cook  in  a  amall  quantity  of  water  about  fifteen 
minutes ;  add  6  tomatoes,  peeled  and  quartered,  a  lump 
of  butter,  a  little  sugar,  and  salt  to  taste.  Let  cook 
until  tender  and  thicken  with  flour  blended  with  butter. 

352.  String  Bean  Fricassee 

Groups  M.  P.  P. 

Cut  and  string  1  pound  of  beans,  cook  in  slightly 
salted  water  thirty  minutes,  then  drain;  put  2  table- 
spoons of  butter,  1  of  minced  parsley  and  1  of  minced 
onion  into  a  saucepan;  add  the  beans  and  stir  fre- 
quently, adding  sufficient  soup  stock  to  keep  them 
moist.  When  perfectly  tender,  add  the  yolk  of  1  egg, 
juice  of  1  lemon,  and  1  tablespoon  of  grated  cheese. 
Stir  until  the  sauce  begins  to  thicken,  then  serve  on 
toast.  Do  not  let  the  mixtui'e  boil  or  the  egg  will 
curdle. 

353.  Creamed  String  Beans 

Groups  M.  P.— St.  P. 

Melt  1  tablespoon  of  butter  in  a  saucepan  and  add  2 
quarts  of  string  beans  cut  in  inch-long  pieces.  Let 
stew  about  ten  minutes,  stirring  often  to  prevent  burn- 
ing, then  add  boiling  water  and  cook  until  tender. 


VEGETABLFS  141 

When  the  water  is  nearly  absorbed  add  1  cup  of  rich 
cream,  thicken  with  flour  blended  with  butter,  and 
season  to  taste. 


354.  Curry  of  String  Beans 

Groups  M.  P.— St.  P. 

Sift  1  tablespoon  of  flour  into  3  tablespoons  of  but- 
ter, rub  smooth;  add  1  cup  boiling  water,  1  onion 
chopped  fine,  and  1  teaspoon  curry  powder,  then  add 

1  quart  of  finely  cut  string  beans;  cook  slowly  until 
tender  and  serve  at  once. 

355.  Green  Beans  (German  Style) 

Groups  M.  St.— F.  S. 

String  and  cut  into  pieces  enough  string  beans  to 
make  1  quart,  cover  with  cold  water  and  cook  about 
fifteen  minutes ;  add  3  potatoes,  cut  into  dice,  let  cook 
until  tender,  adding  more  water  if  necessary.    Brown 

2  tablespoons  flour  in  1  of  butter,  add  a  little  sugar, 
salt,  and  the  juice  of  1  lemon;  add  to  the  beans  and  let 
simmer  five  minutes  longer. 

356.  Schnittbohnen  (German  Style) 

Groups  M.  F.— St.  P. 

String  green  beans,  shave  into  fine  shreds  with  a 
sharp  knife,  barely  cover  with  cold  water,  and  cook 
until  tender;  most  of  the  water  should  be  absorbed. 
Add  milk,  let  come  to  the  boiling  point  and  thicken 
with  flour  blended  with  butter.  Season  to  taste,  and 
add  a  little  chopped  parsley. 


142  NATURE   CURE   COOK  BOOK 

357.  Sweet-Sour  Beans 

Groups  M.  F.— St.  P.  S. 

String  green  beans,  cut  into  dice  and  cook  in  slightly 
salted  water  until  tender;  thicken  with  flour  blended 
with  butter,  sweeten  to  taste,  and  add  lemon  juice. 

358.  Wax  Beans 

Groups  M.— F.  St. 

String  wax  beans,  cut  into  strips  and  cook  in  water 
enough  to  cover  until  tender ;  thicken  with  a  little  flour 
blended  with  butter;  season  to  taste. 

359.  Wax  Beans  with  Cream  Sauce 

Groups  M.— F.  St. 

Cut  wax  beans  into  inch-long  pieces,  cook  until  ten- 
der in  enough  water  to  prevent  burning.  Make  a  cream 
sauce  of  rich  milk,  flour  and  butter,  pour  over  the 
beans,  and  cook  five  minutes  longer. 

BEETS 

360.  Beets  au  Gratin 
Groups  S.  M.  St.— F.  P. 

Scrub  6  medium-sized  beets  thoroughly  with  a  vege- 
table brush,  but  do  not  break  the  skin.  Cover  with 
boiling  water  and  cook  until  tender.  "When  cold  rub 
off  tlie  skin  and  slice.  Take  1  cup  of  bread  crumbs  and 
arrange  in  a  buttered  baking  dish  alternately  the  sliced 
beets  and  bread  crumbs,  having  the  bottom  layer  of 
crumbs.  Heat  2  cups  milk  with  2  tablespoons  butter, 
pour  over  beets  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  until  nicely 
browned. 


VEGETABLES  143 

361.  Baked  Beets 

Groups  S.  ai  F.— St. 

Wash,  young  fceets  very  clean.  Bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  like  potatoes,  turning  frequently.  Wh.en  done, 
peel  and  serve  with  melted  butter. 

362.  Buttered  Beets 

Groups  S.  M.  F.— St. 

Wash  and  peel  beets,  cut  in  thin  slices,  steam  until 
tender,  then  season  and  toss  in  melted  butter. 

363.  Creamed  Beets 

Groups  S.  M.  F.— St.  P. 

Wash  young  beets,  peel,  cut  in  small  dice  and  cook 
in  water  to  cover  until  tender.  Thicken  with  flour  and 
butter  blended,  and  season  to  taste.  Add  lemon  juice 
if  desired. 

364.  Hashed  Beets 

Groups  S.  M.  F.  St.— P. 

Chop  cooked  beets  rather  fine.  To  each  cup  add  1 
minced  onion,  1  tablespoon  bread  crumbs  and  ^  cup 
cream.  Melt  butter  in  a  frying  pan  and  add  the  beets; 
let  brown  on  all  sides,  turning  often.  Do  not  cover 
pan. 

CABBAGE 

365.  Cabbage  au  Gratin 

Groups  M.  P.  F.— St. 

Cook  a  small  cabbage  and  chop  rather  fine.  Prepare 
1  scant  cup  grated  cheese,  ^2  cup  bread  crumbs  and  2 
cups  white  sauce.    In  bottom  of  a  buttered  baking  dish 


144  NATURE   CURE   COOK   BOOK 

put  a  layer  of  the  cabbage,  sprinkle  with  grated  cheese 
and  bread  crumbs,  cover  with  white  sauce.  Repeat 
until  all  the  ingredients  are  used;  the  last  layer  should 
be  of  sauce  covered  with  crumbs.  Season  to  taste  with 
salt  and  paprilta.  Pour  over  top  about  3  tablespoons 
melted  butter  and  brown  nicely  in  the  oven. 

366.  Baked  Cabbage 

Groups  M.  P.  F. 

Cut  cold  boiled  cabbage  into  long  strips,  place  in 
buttered  baking  dish ;  pour  over  1  quart  of  milk  into 
which  3  eggs  have  been  beaten;  season,  and  bake  about 
forty  minutes. 

367.  Boiled  Young  Cabbage 

Groups  M.  F. 

Quarter  a  head  of  cabbage,  remove  core,  and  steam 
or  boil  in  slightly  salted  water  until  tender.  Serve 
with  melted  butter  or  a  cream  sauce. 

368.  Plain  Boiled  Cabbage 

Groups  M.  F. 

Quarter  cabbage,  cook  with  ver}'  little  water,  add 
butter  and  seasoning. 

369.  Brown  Cabbage 

Groups  M.  F.  S. 

Shred  1  large  head  cabbage;  add  y^  cup  butter,  y^ 
cup  brown  sugar,  1/2  cup  lemon  juice,  a  little  salt  and 
anise  seed,  and  6  good-sized  apples,  peeled  and  quar- 
tered ;  cover  tightly  and  let  simmer  two  to  three  hours. 


VEGET.VBLES  145 

370.  Creamed  Cabbage  (1) 

Groups  M.  F.  St.— P. 

Remove  outer  leaves  from  a  head  of  cabbage,  cut 
fine  and  cook  slowly  in  as  little  water  as  possible ;  when 
tender  cover  with  rich  milk,  thickened  with  flour 
rubbed  into  butter;  let  cook  about  ten  minutes  and 
season  to  taste. 

371.  Creamed  Cabbage  (2) 

Groups  M.  F.— St.  P. 

Chop  1  head  of  cabbage  coarsely,  and  boil  ten  min- 
utes in  slightly  salted  water,  then  drain.  Make  a  good 
white  sauce  from  2  tablespoons  each  of  flour  and  butter, 
and  1  cup  each  of  milk  and  the  water  drained  from  the 
cabbage.  Season  to  taste.  In  a  buttered  baking  dish 
place  alternate  layers  of  cabbage  and  white  sauce;  heat 
thoroughly,  and  brown  nicely  in  the  oven. 

372.  Curly  Cabbage 

Groups  M.  F. 

Pick  the  outer  leaves  from  heads  of  curly  cabbage, 
cut  into  sections,  remove  tough  portion  of  core,  and 
steam  until  tender.  Place  on  a  heated  platter,  spread 
with  fresh  butter  or  a  rich  cream  sauce,  and  grate  a  lit- 
tle nutmeg  over  the  whole. 

373.  Filled  Cibbago 

Groups  according  to  filling. 

Any  suitable  filling  may  be  used,  such  as  cooked  rice 
and  tomatoes,  or  protose  and  barley.  Take  large,  per- 
fect cabbage  leaves,  place  a  spoonful  of  the  filling  in 


146  NATUUK    CLUK    COOK   BOOK 

the  center,  roll  the  leaf  loosely,  turning  in  the  edges; 
tie  Avith  strong,  Avhite  thread ;  steam  or  stew  in  a  little 
witer  to  which  butter  has  been  added.  When  ready 
to  serve  remove  the  threads. 

374.  Fried  Cabbage 

Groups  M.  F. 

Chop  cold  boiled  cabbage;  melt  butter  in  a  frying 
pan,  add  the  cabbage  and  fry  until  nicely  browned, 
turning  often. 

375.  Smothered  C:ibbage 

Groups  M.  F. 

Cut  a  small  head  of  cabbage  fine  and  put  into  a  pan 
with  melted  butter,  about  3/4  cup;  add  V2  cup  sweet 
milli  and  seasoning.  Put  dots  of  butter  on  top,  cover 
tightly  and  simmer  until  tender. 

376.  Steamed  C~bbage  and  Protose  Loaf 

Groups  M.  p.  F. 

Cook  cabbage  in  slightly  salted  water  until  nearly 
done;  drain  in  a  colander,  then  pack  in  a  tin  can  or 
pail,  alternating  layers  of  cabbage  and  savory  pro- 
tose, putting  small  pieces  of  butter  over  each  layer  of 
cabbage.  Steam  about  one  hour  and  serve  with  cream 
sauce. 

377.  Stuffed  Cabbage 

Groups  LL  P.  F.— St. 

Mix  1  quart  can  of  savory  protose  with  2  eggs  and  1 
onion,  chopped  or  grated;  add  1  tablespoon  each  of 
flour  and  melted  butter,  stir  in  1  cup  milk  and  season 
to  taste. 


VEGETABLES  147 

Cut  a  plug  from  the  stem  end  of  a  firm  head  of  cab- 
bage, hollow  out  carefully  to  about  three-fourths  inch 
from  the  outside,  filll  with  the  protose  mixture,  close 
the  opening  with  the  plug,  tie  firmly  with  strong  white 
string,  and  boil  in  slightly  salted  water  until  tender. 
Remove  string  before  serving  the  cabbage.  Serve  with 
butter  or  white  sauce. 

378.  Sweet-Sour  Cabbage 

Groups  M.— F.  S. 

Cut  cabbage  fine,  as  for  slaw,  cook  slowly  until  ten- 
der with  very  little  water,  the  juice  of  2  lemons,  a  gen- 
erous piece  of  butter,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  sugar  to 
taste.    A  little  anise  seed  may  be  added  if  desired. 

379.  Savoy  Cabbage 

Groups  M.— F.  St. 

Quarter  1  medium-sized  savoy  cabbage;  add  1  grated 
onion,  cook  in  very  little  water  until  tender;  drain. 
Heat  1  large  tablespoon  of  butter,  sift  into  this  1  table- 
spoon flour,  being  careful  to  prevent  lumps;  add  the 
water  in  which  the  cabbage  was  cooked;  let  come  to 
the  boiling  point  and  pour  over  cabbage.  Serve  at 
once. 

380.  Bed  Cabbage  and  Apples 

Groups  M.— S.  F. 

To  1  head  of  finely  cut  red  cabbage  add  4  medium- 
sized  apples,  peeled  and  cut  into  quarter  sections,  the 
juice  of  2  lemons,  V^  cup  sugar,  a  little  salt,  and  a  gen- 
erous piece  of  butter.  Cook  until  tender,  then  thicken 
with  a  little  flour  dissolved  in  water. 


148  NATURE   CURE   COOK  BOOK 

881.  Bed  Cabbage  in  Butter 

Groups  M.  F. — St. 

Quarter  a  large  red  cabbage,  remove  the  tough  part 
of  the  core  and  shred.  Place  in  cold  water  for  about 
thirty  minutes;  drain;  add  14  pound  butter  and  let 
cook  slowly  about  one  hour. 

382.  Red  Cabbage  with  Mushrooms 

Groups  M.  P.  F. 

Shred  1  head  of  red  cabbage,  steam  until  tender. 
Clean  thoroughly,  mushrooms  to  make  1  quart;  cook 
separately  in  very  little  water  to  which  butter  and  the 
juice  of  1  lemon  has  been  added.  Heap  the  cabbage 
on  a  heated  platter,  put  the  mushrooms  in  the  center, 
pour  brown  butter  over  the  whole,  and  serve. 

383.  Sauerkraut 

Groups  M.  F. — St.  P. 

To  1  quart  of  sauerkraut  add  1  cup  of  cold  water, 
a  generous  piece  of  butter,  1  or  2  apples,  peeled  and 
cut  fine.  Let  cook  slowly  until  tender.  Thicken  with 
flour  or  add  1  raw  grated  potato. 

384.  Sauerkraut  with  Fnmea 

Groups  M.  F. 

Add  a  little  water  to  the  juice  of  the  sauerkraut  and 
cook  slowlj''  for  about  twenty  minutes.  Stew  prunes 
separately  in  water  enough  to  barely  cover,  with  a  lit- 
tle sugar.  When  nearly  soft  add  the  prunes  to  sauer- 
kraut, add  butter,  and  let  simmer  one  hour  longer. 


VEGETABLES  149 

CAEROTS 

385.  Carrots  with  Butter 

Groups  S.  M.  F.— St. 
Scrape  and  slice  about  6  medium-sized  carrots;  cook 
slowly  until  tender  in  very  little  water;  drain;  add  1 
large  tablespoon  of  butter;  shake  the  carrots  -in  the 
butter  until  it  is  evenly  distributed.  Serve  in  a  heated 
dish. 

386.  Carrots  with  Onions 

Groups  M.  S.  F.— St. 

Scrape  and  slice  6  large  carrots  and  2  or  3  onions; 
boil  in  water  enough  to  cover  for  thirty  minutes ;  drain 
and  return  to  saucepan;  add  2  tablespoons  of  butter 
blended  with  1  tablespoon  of  flour,  and  enough  of  the 
stock  to  make  the  right  consistency.  Season  to  taste, 
let  boil  up  once  or  twice,  and  serve. 

887.  Carrots  and  Parsnips 

Groups  S.  M.  F.— St,  P. 
Scrape  and  cut  into  dice  equal  quantities  of  carrots 
and  parsnips,  barely  cover  with  water  and  cook  until 
tender.    Add  butter  and  seasoning. 

388.  Carrots,  German  Style 

Groups  S.  M.  F.  St. — ^P. 

Scrape  carrots,  wash  well,  and  cut  into  dice.  Cook 
in  slightly  salted  water  until  nearly  tender,  then  add 
about  half  the  quantity  of  cooked  barley  and  let  sim- 
mer fifteen  minutes  longer.  "Wlien  ready  to  serve,  pour 
brown  butter  over. 

Note :— Rice  may  be  used  instead  of  barley.  Beets 
may  be  prepared  in  the  same  manner. 


150  NATURE   CURE   COOK  BOOK 

389.  Carrot  Fritters 

Groups  F.  P.— St.  S.  M- 

To  2  cups  boiled  carrots  mashed  through  a  colander, 
add  2  well-beaten  eggs  and  2  tablespoons  flour.  I.Iix 
thoroughly,  drop  from  a  spoon  into  hot  butter  or  olive 
oil  and  fry  until  nicely  browned.  , 

390.  Carrots  Maitre  d 'Hotel 

Groups  S.  M.— F.  P. 

Scrape  a  sufficient  number  of  small-sized  carrots, 
cut  in  halves  lengthwise  and  cook  in  boiling  water  until 
tender.  Drain;  place  in  a  saucepan  with  1  tablespoon 
butter,  1  tablespoon  of  minced  parsley,  the  juice  of  1 
lemon,  and  a  dash  of  paprika;  if  desired,  a  little  sugar 
may  be  added.  Toss  lightly  over  the  fire  until  thor- 
oughly heated,  pour  into  a  hot  dish  and  serve. 

391.  Creamed  Carrots 

Groups  S.  M.  F. — St.  P. 

Scrape  carrots,  cut  into  dice,  barely  cover  with 
water,  add  butter  and  a  little  salt;  let  cook  until  tender 
and  the  water  is  absorbed.  Add  rich  milk,  let  come  to 
boiling  point;  thicken  with  flour  and  butter  blended. 
Minced  parsley  may  be  added  before  serving. 

392.  Flemish  Carrots 

Groups  M.  S.  F.— St.  P. 

Scrape  and  slice  3  large  carrots,  cook  until  tender 
and  drain.  Cut  1  onion  into  small  dice,  fry  in  butter 
until  soft  and  yellow,  add  seasoning  to  taste,  stir  in  1 
teaspoon  of  flour,  being  careful  to  prevent  lumps;  add 


VEGETABLES  151 

the  water  in  which  the  carrots  were  cooked  and  let 
cook  slowly  until  fairly  thick ;  add  the  carrots  and  some 
chopped  parsley,  let  boil  up  and  serve. 

393.  Fried  Carrots 

Groups  S.  M.  F.— P. 

Cut  boiled  carrots  len^hwise  into  slices  a  quarter 
of  an  inch  thick,  and  brown  in  butter  on  both  sides. 
Serve  with  slices  of  lemon. 

394.  Hungarian  Carrots 

Groups  S.  M.— F.  St.  P. 

Scrape  and  cut  2  large  carrots  in  thin  slices,  then 
place  in  a  saucepan  with  1  tablespoon  powdered  sugar 
and  just  enough  water  to  cover ;  when  tender,  thicken 
with  1  tablespoon  flour  blended  with  2  of  butter;  add 
the  juice  of  1  lemon;  let  come  to  a  boil. 

395.  Mashed  Carrots 

Groups  S.  M.  F.— P. 

Cook  carrots  until  tender  in  water  enough  to  pre- 
vent burning;  mash  through  a  colander,  add  butter 
and  seasoning  to  taste ;  reheat  and  serve. 

396.  Scalloped  Carrots 

Groups  S.  1^  T.—T.  St. 

Boil  large  carrots,  peel  and  slice.  Put  alternate  lay- 
ers of  carrots  and  bread  crumbs  into  a  buttered  baking 
dish,  finishing  with  bread  crumbs.  Pour  over  enough 
TT>nk  to  cover,  put  bits  of  butter  on  top;  bake  until 
thoroughly  heated  and  nicely  browned  (about  forty 
minutes). 


152  NATURE  CURE  COOK  BOOK 

897.  Steamed  Carrots 

Groups  S.  M.  F.— P. 
Scrape  and  cut  in  half  nice  medium-sized  carrots; 
steam  until   tender.     Serve  with   melted  butter  and 
chopped  parsley. 

398.  Stewed  Carrots 

Groups  S.  M.  F.— St.  P. 
Scrape  carrots,   cut  into  pieces,   cook  A\ith  barely 
enough  water  to  cover,  adding  a  piece  of  butter.  When 
tender,  thicken  with  flour  blended  with  butter,  and  add 
a  little  sugar. 

399.  White  and  Gold 

Groups  M.  S.  St.— F. 
Scrape  carrots,  cut  in  long  strips.  Put  on  to  cook 
and  add  as  many  green  onions  (white  part  only)  as 
you  have  carrots.  Let  cook  until  tender.  Make  a 
mound  of  mashed  potatoes  in  a  deep  dish,  arrange  car- 
rots  and  onions  around  mound.  Reheat  water  carrots 
and  onions  were  cooked  in  and  thicken  with  flour 
blended  with  butter.  Pour  around  mound  and  serve 
at  once. 

OAULIFLOWEB 

This  vegetable  will  not  turn  dark  if  cooked  in  milk 
or  part  milk. 

400.  Cauliflower  a  la  Hollandaise 

Groups  M.  F.— S.  St.  P. 

Remove  the  leaves  and  lower  part  of  stalk  from  a 

nice,  white  head  of  cauliflower.     Put  in  cold  water, 

head  down,  for  about  an  hour,  to  draw  out  all  insects, 

then  steam  until  tender.     Serve  on  a  heated  platter, 


VEGETABLES  153 

cover  with  sauce  HoUandaise  and  garnish  with  sprigs 
of  parsley. 

401.  Cauliflower  Francaise 

Groups  M.  P.  F.— S.  St. 
Steam  cauliflower  until  tender,  then  break  into  smaU 
pieces ;  put  into  a  buttered  baking  dish  and  cover  with 
cream  sauce;  sprinkle  thickly  with  grated  cheese  and 
bake  half  an  hour. 

402.  Cauliflower,  German  Style 

Groups  M.  S.  F.— St.  P. 

Prepare  cauliflower,  without  breaking,  place  in  cold 
water  for  about  an  hour;  drain.  Melt  2  tablespoons 
butter,  add  1  tablespoon  flour,  stirring  until  perfectly 
smooth,  then  add  1  quart  of  rich  milk,  a  little  salt,  and 
1  tablespoon  sugar.  Put  the  cauliflower  into  this 
sauce  and  cook  in  a  double  boiler  until  tender. 

403.  Cauliflower  with  Egg  Sauce 

Groups  M.  F.  P.— S.  St. 

Steam  cauliflower.  ]\Iake  a  sauce  of  3  hard-boiled 
eggs  chopped  fine,  1  small  onion,  grated,  1  tablespoon 
butter  and  1  cup  cream;  heat  to  boiling,  season  to  suit 
taste,  add  a  little  sugar,  if  desired,  pour  over  the  cauli- 
flower which  has  been  kept  warm,  and  serve  at  once. 

404.  Cauliflower  with  Parsley 

Groups  M.  S.  P.— St.  P. 
Pick  over  and  break  into  pieces  a  nice,  white  head  of 
cauliflower;  put  into  a  small  kettle  with  2  tablespoons 
melted  butter,  a  little  flour,  ^^  cup  of  water  and  a  little 
parsley,  chopped  fine.    Cover  and  cook  until  tender. 


154  NATURE   CURE  COOK  BOOK 

405.  Cauliflower  with  Tomato  Sauce 

Groups  M,  S.  St.— F.  P. 

Break  cauliflower  into  suitable  pieces,  wash  care- 
fully, and  cook  in  a  small  quantity  of  salted  water  until 
tender.  Cut  into  pieces  about  6  tomatoes,  stew  until 
tender,  rub  through  a  colander;  reheat,  thicken  with 
flour  rubbed  smooth  in  a  little  water;  season  to  taste 
with  salt  and  sugar;  add  a  good-sized  piece  of  butter, 
pour  over  the  cauliflower,  let  simmer  about  five  min- 
utes and  serve. 

406.  Baked  Cauliflower 

Groups  M.  St.  F.— S.  P. 

Wash  and  clean  cauliflower  carefully,  break  into 
pieces  and  leave  in  cold  water  for  an  hour  to  draw  out 
any  small  insects,  then  steam  until  tender.  In  a  but- 
tered baking  dish  place  a  layer  of  cauliflower,  then  a 
layer  of  bread  crumbs,  dotted  with  bits  of  butter,  and 
so  on  until  the  dish  is  filled,  having  the  top  layer  of 
bread  crumbs.  Pour  over  1  cup  of  cream,  season,  and 
bake  until  nicely  browned. 

407.  Creamed  Cauliflower 

Groups  M.  S.  F.  P.— St. 

Break  cauliflower  into  small  pieces,  removing  leaves 
and  tough  part  of  stalk,  steam  or  cook  in  a  little  salted 
water  until  tender ;  drain ;  brown  1  tablespoon  of  flour 
with  2  tablespoons  of  butter;  add  the  water  in  which 
the  cauliflower  was  boiled,  and  an  equal  amount  of 
milk  or  cream,  season  to  taste  and  pour  over  the 
cauliflower.  Serve  in  a  heated  dish.  If  desired,  dust  a 
little  mace  over  the  top. 


VEGETABLES  155 

408.  Escalloped  Cauliflower 

Groups  M.  S.  F.— P.  St. 

Break  cauliflower  into  suitable  pieces,  cook  about 
thirty  minutes  in  slightly  salted  water;  drain;  place 
layers  of  cauliflower  in  a  buttered  baking  dish,  cover 
with  bread  crumbs,  dot  with  butter  and  grate  a  thick 
layer  of  mild  cheese  over  it ;  repeat  until  all  ingredients 
are  used.  Have  top  layer  of  bread  crumbs,  cover  with 
milk  seasoned  to  suit  taste,  and  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven. 

409.  Pried  Cauliflower. 

Groups  M.  S.  F.— St.  P. 

Break  cold  boiled  cauliflower  into  small  pieces,  brown 
carefully  in  butter,  shaking  and  turning  frequently 
until  thoroughly  heated.  If  desired,  add  a  little  pow- 
dered mace  or  nutmeg. 

CELERY 

This  vegetable  is  generally  eaten  raw  as  a  relish,  or 
in  soup,  or  salad.  It  may  be  creamed,  steamed,  or 
stewed,  and  served  on  toast  as  a  side  dish. 

CELERY— CABBAGE 

This  is  a  new  vegetable,  delicious  in  taste,  and  very 
rich  in  mineral  salts, — produced  by  the  crossing  of 
celery  and  cabbage.  It  may  be  served  shredded,  with 
dressing  as  a  salad,  or  boiled,  like  cabbage. 

The  German  celery  has  a  very  much  larger  root  than 
the  leafy  variety  grown  in  this  country. 

The  following  recipes  refer  to  the  German  celery. 


156  NATURE  CURE  COOK  BOOK 

410.  Celery  and  Carrots 

Groups  M.  S.  F.— St.  P. 

Cut  the  celery  into  short  pieces  and  the  carrots  into 
thin  slices;  have  the  same  amount  of  each.  Boil  the 
carrots  in  slightly  salted  water  until  tender.  Scald  the 
celery  in  another  dish,  add  the  carrots.  Thicken  with 
1  tablespoon  flour  rubbed  into  butter.  Add  butter  and 
seasoning  to  suit  taste.    Bring  to  a  boil  and  serve. 

411.  Escalloped  Celery  and  Egg 

Groups  F.  St.  P.  M.— S. 
Cook  a  pint  of  celery  cut  into  dice ;  make  a  sauce  of 
4  tablespoons  melted  butter,  4  of  flour,  1  cup  celery 
stock,  1  cup  milk,  seasoning;  add  the  cooked  celery; 
put  a  layer  in  a  buttered  baking  dish,  sprinkle  with 
hard-boiled  eggs,  chopped  fine,  also  a  few  drops  of 
lemon  juice;  continue  with  alternate  layers  until  the 
ingredients  are  used ;  cover  with  buttered  bread  crumbs 
and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

412.  German  Celery  with  Protose 

Groups  M.  P.  F.— St.  S. 
Pare  celery  roots,  cut  into  quarter  or  eighth  sections, 
according  to  size,  cook  in  a  small  quantity  of  water 
until  nearly  tender,  then  add  little  balls  made  of  savory 
protose;  season  to  taste,  add  butter  and  a  little  cream; 
thicken  with  flour  blended  with  butter. 

413.  Mashed  German  Celery 

Groups  M.  F.— S.  St.  P. 
Pare  and  slice  celery  roots,  cook  in  slightly  salted 
water  until  tender,  mash  through  a  colander,  add  but- 
ter, seasoning,  and  a  little  cream.    Reheat  and  serve. 


VEGETABLES  157 

414.  Stewed  German  Celery 

Groups  M.  S.  F.  St.  P. 

Pare  and  wash  celery  roots,  cut  into  dice  and  cook 
in  slightly  salted  water  with  a  good-sized  pieoe  of 
butter.  When  tender,  thicken  with  flour  and  butter 
blended. 

CORN  RECIPES 

Young,  sweet  com  is  rich  in  sugar  and  organic  salts. 
As  it  ripens  the  sugar  and  mineral  salts  decrease  and 
the  starches  and  protein  constituents  increase  in  quan- 
tity. 

The  Ratings  Are  for  Young  and  Sweet  Com 

415.  Corn  on  the  Cob 

Groups  S.  M.— F.  St.  P. 

Strip  off  husks  and  threads  from  ears  of  com,  wash 
well  and  boil  fifteen  minutes  in  water  enough  to  cover ; 
serve  with  butter.  If  the  corn  is  home-grown,  the  inner 
husks  and  part  of  the  stem  may  be  boiled  with  the 
corn.  This  causes  it  to  be  more  tender  and  of  better 
flavor. 

416.  Corn  Chowder 

Groups  St.  S.— M.  F.  P. 

Fry  1  onion  in  butter  until  soft  and  yellow,  add  3 
potatoes  which  have  been  cut  into  dice  and  cooked  in 
slightly  salted  water  until  nearly  tender  (do  not  drain 
water  off),  add  2  cups  corn,  seasoning,  and  last,  1  quart 
of  hot  milk.  Cook  together  over  a  slow  fire  for  ten 
minutes. 


158  NATURE   CURE   COOK  BOOK 

417.  Corn  Fritters 

Groups  F.  St.  P.  S.  M. 

Grate  raw  com  from  the  cobs.  To  each  cup  add  1 
beaten  egg,  2  tablespoons  flour,  salt,  and  a  little  milk. 
Drop  from  a  spoon  into  deep  fat  (equal  parts  olive  oil 
and  butter)  or  fry  on  a  griddle. 

418.  Corn  Oysters 

Groups  F.  p.  S.  St.  M. 

Grate  the  com  from  about  10  large  ears  (raw).  Add 
to  it  1  cup  cracker  crumbs,  the  beaten  whites  of  5  eggs, 
juice  of  1  lemon,  seasoning  to  taste.  Shape  with  two 
spoons  to  resemble  large  oysters,  and  fry  in  butter  or 
olive  oil  until  crisp  and  brown.  Serve  with  slices  of 
lemon. 

419.  Corn  Pudding 

Groups  F.  P.  S.— St.  M. 

To  2  cups  com  cut  from  the  cob,  add  2  tablespoons 
flour,  2  eggs,  1  pint  milk,  1  large  tablespoon  melted 
butter,  sugar  and  lemon  flavoring  to  suit  taste.  Beat 
well  together,  put  in  a  buttered  baking  dish,  and  bake 
about  one  hour,  or  until  nicely  browned. 

Note: — This  pudding  may  be  steamed  in  a  double 
boiler.    It  will  take  about  two  hours. 

420.  Com  Relish 
Groups  M.  S. — St.  P. 

Cut  4  ears  com  from  the  cob,  add  1  onion,  1  green 
pepper,  and  1  small  head  cabbage,  all  cut  fine;  mix 
well  with  the  juice  of  2  lemons,  Vo  cup  sugar  and  a  lit- 
tle salt;  it  is  then  ready  to  serve. 


VEGETABLES  159 

421.  Corn  -Souflae 

Groups  F.  S.  St.  P.— M, 

To  1  cup  grated  com  add  1  tablespoon  butter,  sea- 
soning to  taste,  and  2  tablespoons  flour;  mix  to  a 
smooth  paste  with  1  cup  milk,  and  boil  until  thick; 
remove  from  the  fire  and  when  slightly  cooled  add  the 
well-beaten  yolks  of  2  eggs;  then  fold  in  the  stiffly 
beaten  whites  of  the  eggs,  pour  into  a  well  buttered 
baking  dish  and  bake  half  an  hour. 

422.  Corn  Timbales 

Groups  S.  M.  F.— P.  St. 

To  1  cup  grated  corn  add  2  chopped  peppers,  a  little 
melted  butter,  2  lightly  beaten  eggs,  and  seasoning. 
Turn  into  timbale  molds  and  steam  about  twenty  to 
thirty  minutes;  test  with  a  knife  blade  as  you  would 
custard;  serve  with  cream  sauce. 

423.  Baked  Corn  Pudding 

Groups  S.  M.  F.  P. 

2  cups  grated  com,  1  egg  lightly  beaten,  a  little 
melted  butter  and  seasoning ;  mix  with  1  cup  rich  milk, 
turn  into  buttered  dish  and  bake  until  the  eggs  are  set. 

424.  leaked  Corn,  Southern  Style 

Groups  S.  F.  P.— M.  St. 

To  1  pint  com  add  2  well-beaten  eggs,  1  heaping 
tablespoon  of  flour,  a  little  salt,  and  1  sweet  pepper, 
chopped  fine.  Mix  well,  put  in  a  buttered  baking  dish, 
dot  the  top  with  bits  of  butter,  and  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  about  thirty  minutes. 


160  NATURE  CJL.TE  COOK  BOOK 

425.  Baked  Com  with  Tomatoes 

Groups  M.  S.  St.— F.  P. 

Fill  a  buttered  baking  dish  with  alternate  layers  of 
com,  either  canned  or  cut  from  the  cob,  tomatoes, 
peeled  and  sliced,  bread  crumbs,  a  sprinkling  of  salt, 
and  bits  of  butter.  Let  the  top  layer  be  bread  crumbs 
dotted  with  butter.    Bake  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 

426.  Curry  of  Cora 

Groups  M.  S.  F.  P.— St. 

Into  a  saucepan  put  2  tablespoons  butter  and  a  little 
salt;  add  2  apples,  chopped  fine,  and  1  small  grated 
onion;  let  simmer  until  slightly  browned,  stir  La  1 
tablespoon  of  curry  powder,  add  V2  sweet  green  pep- 
per, 2  tomatoes,  chopped  fine,  and  %  cup  chopped  wal- 
nuts. Let  simmer  together  for  ten  minutes,  then  add 
2  cups  com  cut  from  the  cob;  cover,  and  cook  slowly 
for  twenty  minutes.    If  too  thick  add  a  little  water. 

427.  Fried  Com 
Groups  S.  M.  F.--St.  P. 

Cut  the  kernels  from  ears  of  com  (cooked  or  raw) 
with  a  sharp  knife;  fry  in  butter,  stirring  often  until 
evenly  browned ;  add  seasoning,  and,  if  desired,  a  little 
sour  cream. 

428.  Pompeiian  Cora 

Groups  S.  M.— F.  St.  P. 

Into  a  deep  skillet  put  2  tablespoons  of  butter;  add 
1  quart  corn,  canned  or  cut  from  the  cob ;  season  with 
salt  and  a  little  paprika;  add  1  dessertspoon  of  brown 


VEGETABLES  161 

sugar  and  fry   about   twenty   minutes,   stirring  fre- 
quently.   Serve  steaming  hot. 

Note : — The  sugar  makes  the  corn  brown  nicely,  and 
gives  it  a  delicious  flavor. 

429.  Scalloped  Com 

Groups  St.  S.  F.  M.  P. 

Grease  the  bottom  and  sides  of  a  baking  dish;  put 
in  a  layer  of  cracker  crumbs,  then  a  laye^  of  corn  cut 
from  the  cob ;  sprinkle  with  sugar,  salt,  and  dot  liber- 
allj^  with  butter;  alternate  with  cracker  crumbs  and 
corn  until  the  dish  is  nearly  filled,  having  the  top  layer 
of  crumbs;  pour  over  all  1  cup  rich  milk.  Cover  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

« 

430.  Stewed  Com 

Groups  St.  S.  M.— F.  P. 

Cut  the  kernels  from  about  1  dozen  ears  of  com; 
put  into  stewpan  with  very  little  water  and  a  piece  of 
butter;  let  cook  about  twenty  minutes,  add  1  cup 
cream,  cook  five  minutes  longer,  and  servev 

431.  Fresh  Succotash 

Groups  St.  P.  S.— F.  P. 

4  ears  of  corn,  1  pint  fresh  lima  beans ;  cut  com  from 
the  ears,  add  to  the  cooked  beans,  then  cook  five  min- 
utes longer ;  add  1  cup  boiling  milk ;  season  with  butter. 

CUCUMBERS 

Cucumbers  are  low  in  protein  and  starches,  contain 
some  sugar  (2%)  and  rich  in  the  five  positive  mineral 
salts. 


162  NATURE   CURE   COOK  BOOK 

432.  Escalloped  Cucumbers 

Groups  M.  St.— F.  P.  8. 

Pare  and  slice  thin  2  large  cucumbers.  In  a  buttered 
baking  dish  put  alternate  layers  of  cucumbers  and 
bread  crumbs.  Dot  each  layer  of  bread  crumbs  with 
bits  of  butter  and  sprinkle  with  a  little  salt.  Moisten 
well  with  water;  if  an  acid  taste  is  preferred,  add 
lemon  juice  to  taste.  Bake  forty-five  minutes  in  a 
moderate  oven. 

433.  Cucumbers  on  Toast 

Groups  M.  St.— F.  P.  S. 

Select  medium-sized  cucumbers,  pare,  cut  into  halves, 
then  lengthwise  into  eighths.  Put  them  in  a  pan,  cover 
with  boiling  water,  add  salt  to  taste,  cook  over  a  slow 
fire  about  twenty  minutes ;  lift  carefully  with  a  skim- 
mer, arrange  neatly  on  toasted  whole  wheat  bread,  cut 
into  triangular  or  diamond  shapes;  serve  at  once  with 
drawn  butter,  or  use  for  sauce  the  water  in  which  the 
cucumbers  were  cooked. 

434.  Stewed  Cucumbers 

Groups  M.  F.  St.— P.  S. 

Pare  cucumbers,  cut  into  large  dice,  cook  slowly 
about  twenty  minutes,  adding  a  very  little  water. 
Season  to  taste,  add  butter,  and  if  an  acid  taste  is  pre- 
ferred, lemon  juice.  Serve  in  a  heated  dish  covered 
with  bread  crumbs  fried  in  butter. 

Note: — The  lemon  juice  must  be  added  at  the  last, 
after  the  cucumbers  are  done.  If  cooked  with  the  acid 
they  will  become  tough. 


VEGETABLES  163 

EGG  PLANT 

Egg  plant  is  a  valuable  vegetable  and  well-balanced 
food.  It  is  rich  in  starch,  sugar  and  protein  as  well  as 
in  the  positive  mineral  salts. 

435.  Baked  Egg  Plant  (1) 

Groups  St.  S.  M.— P.  F. 

Cut  the  egg  plant  into  slices  about  one-third  of  an 
inch  thick;  pare,  wash  and  drain.  Place  in  layers  in 
a  buttered  baking  dish,  dusting  each  layer  lightly  with 
salt;  when  the  dish  is  full,  pour  in  carefully  enough 
milk  to  cover  slices.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  the 
milk  has  been  absorbed  and  the  egg  plant  is  tender. 

436.  Baked  Egg  Plant  (2) 

Groups  St.  S.  M.  F.  P. 

Peel  2  egg  plants,  cook  about  fifteen  minutes;  ran 
through  the  coarse  vegetable  grinder;  add  2  eggs,  1 
cup  cracker  crumbs,  and  seasoning  to  taste ;  mix  well, 
and  put  into  a  buttered  pan  about  three  inches  deep; 
pour  1  cup  of  milk  over  the  mixture ;  bake  half  an  hour. 

437.  Escalloped  Egg  Plant 

Groups  St.  S.  UL  P.  P. 

Peel  and  steam  an  egg  plant;  chop  fine.  Put  a  thick 
layer  in  the  bottom  of  a  buttered  baking  dish,  cover 
with  bread  crumbs.  Repeat.  Beat  2  eggs  into  1  quart 
of  milk,  season  and  pour  over  egg  plant.  Bake  forty 
minutes. 


164  NATURE   CURE   COOK  BOOK 

438.  Fried  Egg  Plant 

Groups  St.  S.  F.  P.  M. 

Peel  egg  plant,  cut  in  discs  one-third  incli  thick,  soak 
in  slightly  salted  milk  or  water,  dip  in  beaten  egg,  then 
in  cracker  crumbs,  and  fry  in  butter  or  olive  oil  until 
nicely  browned.    Serve  with  slices  of  lemon. 


439.  Stuffed  Egg  Plant 

Groups  F.  P.  St.  S.  M. 

Cut  4  small  egg  plants  in  halves,  crosswise.  Cook  in 
slightly  salted  water.  When  tender,  drain,  scrape  out 
pulp,  and  chop  fine ;  mix  with  I/2  cup  tomato  pulp,  y2 
cup  bread  crumbs  and  i/^  cup  chopped  nuts.  Season, 
add  melted  butter  and  fill  egg  plant  shells.  Sprinkle 
with  chopped  onions  and  bake  about  twenty  minutes. 
When  ready  to  serve,  place  a  poached  egg  on  each  half. 


440.       Stuffed  Egg  Plant  with  Nut  Sauce 

Groups  St.  S.  F.  P.  M. 

Boil  egg  plant  (entire)  for  fifteen  minutes,  then  cut 
in  two.  When  cool  enough  to  handle  scoop  out  the 
pulp,  being  careful  not  to  break  the  skin.  Mash  the 
pulp,  season,  and  add  1  large  tablespoon  melted  butter, 
1  cup  grated  bread  crumbs,  1  well-beaten  egg,  1  tea- 
spoon of  onion  juice  and  a  little  salt.  Mix  well,  fill  the 
shells  and  bake  until  browned  on  top. 

For  the  Nut  Sauce,  add  finely  chopped  English  wal- 
nuts or  pecans  to  white  sauce  or  any  other  suitable 
sauce. 


VEGETABLES  165 

441.  Egg  Plant  Fritters 
Groups  St  F.  P.  S.  M. 

Pare  an  egg  plant  and  cut  into  dice,  boil  until  soft ; 
drain;  add  2  well-beaten  eggs  and  2  slices  of  bread, 
previously  soaked  in  milk.  Season  to  suit  taste.  Drop 
large  spoonfuls  on  a  well-greased  griddle  and  fry  until 
brown  and  crisp. 

442.  Egg  Plant  with  Mushrooms 

Groups  P.  St.  S.  F.  M. 
Cook  1  pint  of  mushrooms  and  1  egg  plant  until 
tender;  put  a  layer  of  mushrooms  into  a  baking  dish, 
then  a  layer  of  egg  plant,  and  so  on  until  the  dish  is 
filled;  pour  over  this  a  rich  cream  sauce;  cover  with 
bread  crumbs,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

443.  Egg  Plant  Oysters 

Groups  St.  S.  F.  P.  M. 
2  parts  egg  plant,  cooked  and  pounded  into  paste, 
1  part  soft  bread  crumbs;  add  salt  and  1  tablespoon 
melted  butter.  Form  into  oyster-shaped  cakes  with 
two  spoons;  dip  in  beaten  egg  and  bread  crumbs  and 
fry  brown  and  crisp.    Serve  with  slices  of  lemon. 

444.  Egg  Plant  Surprise 

Groups  St.  F.  P.  S.  M. 
Scoop  the  pulp  from  a  large  egg  plant  cut  in  half. 
Place  both  pulp  and  shell  in  salted  water  for  twenty 
minutes.  Drain  both ;  chop  the  pulp  rather  fine,  mix 
with  Yo  cup  each  of  cracker  crumbs  and  chopped  nuts, 
seasoning,  and  2  tablespoons  thick  cream.  In  a  skillet 
heat  1/2  cup  of  olive  oil,  place  the  egg  plant  mixture 


166  NATURE   CURE   COOK  BOOK 

into  it  and  let  cook  about  five  minutes,  then  fill  the 
shells,  which  have  been  lined  with  fine  bread  crumbs. 
Bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  When  ready  to  serve  put  a 
tablespoon  of  unsweetened  whipped  cream  on  top  of 
each. 

ENGLISH  VEGETABLE  MARROW 

Prepare  like  squash  and  pumpkin.  This  is  another 
splendid  new  vegetable  produced  by  the  crossing  of 
several  members  of  the  melon  family.  It  combines 
the  best  qualities  of  squash  and  cucumber. 

KALE 

445.  Scotch  Kale 

Groups  M.  F. 

Pick  Scotch  kale  off  the  stems,  rinse  well  in  several 
waters,  cook  until  tender.  Chop  fine,  add  butter  and 
salt  to  taste.    If  desired  grate  a  little  nutmeg  over. 

Note : — Kale  may  be  prepared  in  the  same  manner 
as  spinach,  but  requires  longer  cooking. 

446.  Scotch  Kale  with  Onions 

Groups  M.  F, 
Pick  over  and  wash  well  1  peck  of  Scotch  kale;  let 
stand  in  ice  boL.  over  night  or  out  of  doors  where  it 
may  freeze.  Put  a  generous  piece  of  butter  in  the 
kettle  with  about  1  quart  water;  add  the  kale  and  2 
or  3  onions,  cut  into  dice.  Let  cook  slowly  until  ten- 
der, or  about  three  hours,  when  all  the  water  should 
be  absorbed.  Add  1  cup  cream  and  let  cook  twenty 
minutes,  add  salt,  and,  if  desired,  a  little  sugar.  Chop 
fine,  place  on  a  heated  platter  and  garnish  with  onion 
rings. 


VEGETABLES  167 

447.  Brussels  Sprouts  (Rose  Kale) 

Groups  M.  F. 

Pick  over,  wash  carefully,  and  cook  about  fifteen 
minutes  in  enough  slightly  salted  water  to  prevent 
burning.    Serve  with  melted  butter. 

448.  Brussels  Sprouts  with  Rice 

Groups  M.  Et.  F.  P. 

Pick  over  1  quart  of  Brussels  sprouts,  cook  slowly 
until  tender  in  a  little  water  to  which  a  dessertspoon 
of  butter  has  been  added.  When  ready  to  take  from 
the  fire,  add  the  juice  of  1  lemon.  Put  into  the  center 
of  a  heated  platter  in  a  border  of  freshly  cooked  rice. 
Brown  an  onion  in  butter  and  pour  over  the  whole. 

MUSHEOCMS 

449.  Escalloped  Mushrooms 

Groups  P.  F.  St. 

Wash  and  clean  1  quart  of  nice  large  mushrooms; 
fill  a  buttered  baking  dish  with  alternate  layers  of 
mushrooms  and  bread  crumbs.  Take  4  eg'gs,  beat  well 
with  1  quart  of  rich  milk;  season  with  salt  and  a  few 
bay  leaves;  pour  over  mushrooms;  dot  with  bits  of 
butter  and  bake  about  forty  minutes. 

450.  Fried  Mushrooms 

Groups  P.  F.  St. — M. 

Clean  the  large,  flat  variety  of  mushrooms,  remove 
stems,  dip  in  beaten  egg,  then  in  cracker  crumbs.  Fry 
in  butter  until  nicely  browned.  Serve  on  toast  with 
slices  of  lemon. 


168  NATURE   CURE   COOK  BOOK 

451.  Hashed  Mushrooms 

Groups  P.  F.— St.  M. 

Chop  1  quart  of  mushrooms  rather  fine,  stew  in  but- 
ter with  1  tablespoon  minced  onions  or  olives  until 
slightly  browned,  add  %  cup  bread  crumbs,  1/2  cup 
sour  cream  and  seasoning.  Cook  ten  minutes  longer, 
and  serve  garnished  with  parsley. 

452.  Spanish  Mushrooms 

Groups  P.  F.— St.  S. 

Wash  and  clean  1  pound  of  mushrooms,  put  into  a 
pan  with  2  ounces  butter,  a  sprinkling  of  flour,  and 
seasoning;  cook  about  ten  minutes  and  moisten  with 
soup  stock.  Just  before  serving  add  1  cup  green  peas 
and  a  little  nutmeg.  Serve  with  cream  sauce,  with  a 
few  nuts  sprinkled  on  top. 

453.  Spinach  with  Mushrooms 

Groups  M.  P.  F.— St. 

Wash  thoroughly  1  peck  of  spinach;  boil  ten  min- 
utes; drain  and  chop  very  fine;  put  into  an  earthen 
cooking  vessel  with  1  tablespoon  butter,  a  little  salt, 
and  the  juice  of  I/2  lemon;  let  simmer  fifteen  minutes; 
when  cool  add  the  well-beaten  yolks  of  2  eggs;  turn 
into  a  buttered  mould,  leaving  a  well  in  the  center,  and 
cook  slowly  over  boiling  water.  When  ready  to  serve, 
fill  the  well  with  mushrooms.    Serve  with  croutons. 

454.  Stewed  Mushrooms 

Groups  P.  F.  St. 

Into  2  tablespoons  of  melted  butter  sift  1  tablespoon 
flour,  let  cook  together  until  smooth,  stirring  all  the 


VEGETABLES  169 

time,  then  add  1  pint  of  rich  milk  or  cream.  When  it 
boils  up,  add  2  cups  mushooms,  stew  until  tender,  sea- 
son. Serve  on  squares  of  toast,  garnished  with  pars- 
ley. 

455.  Mushrooms  on  Toast 

Groups  P.  F.  St. 

Trim  2  quarts  mushrooms  and  rub  clean  with  a  piece 
of  white  flannel  dipped  in  salt.  Melt  about  1/4  pound 
butter,  add  mushrooms,  season  to  taste  with  salt  and 
paprika,  add  a  little  hot  water  or  milk  and  let  simmer 
gently  for  fifteen  minutes ;  thicken  with  flour  and  but- 
ter blended.  Just  before  serving  add  1  pint  cream, 
let  boil  up  and  serve  on  toast. 


ONIONS 

456.  Baked  Onions 

Groups  M.  F. 

Parboil  Spanish  onions  fifteen  minutes,  then  cut  a 
V-shaped  piece  from  the  center  and  put  a  little  butter 
in  the  cavity.  Put  into  a  baking  pan  with  a  lump  of 
butter  and  a  little  water;  bake  from  twenty  to  thirty 
minutes,  according  to  size. 

457.  Boiled  Onions 

Groups  M.  F. 

Select  medium-sized  onions,  peel,  wash,  cover  with 
cold  water  and  let  simmer  gently  until  tender.  Add 
butter,  seasoning,  and  serve. 


170  NATURE   CURE   COOK  BOOK 

458.  Creamed  Onions 

Groups  M.  F. 

Steam  medium-sized  onions  until  tender,  make  a 
good  white  sauce,  season  to  taste,  add  the  onions,  heat 
well  together,  and  serve.  A  stuffed  oiive  may  be 
pressed  into  the  top  of  each  onion  if  desired. 

459.  Escalloped  Onions 

Groups  M.  St.  F.— P. 

Wash  and  slice  Bermuda  onions,  cook  in  a  small 
quantity  of  water  until  tender.  Put  into  a  buttered 
baking  dish  alternate  layers  of  onions  and  bread 
crumbs,  dotting  each  layer  of  crumbs  with  bits  of 
butter;  have  the  top  layer  of  crumbs.  Cover  with  rich 
milk  and  bake  twenty  to  thirty  minutes. 

460.  Escalloped  Onion  and  Tomato 

Groups  M.  F.  St. 

Peel  and  cut  large  onions  into  thin  slices,  parboil  in 
salted  water;  drain,  and  put  in  buttered  baking  dish 
with  alternate  layers  of  sliced  tomatoes,  fine  bread 
crumbs  and  green  peppers,  chopped  fine;  dot  with 
butter  and  sprinkle  with  salt;  have  the  last  layer  of 
bread  crumbs ;  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

461.  Filled  Onions 

Groups  M.  P.  F. 

Steam  8  large  onions  until  tender;  remove  center  of 
each;  fill  with  mixture  of  protose,  chopped  onion  cen- 
ters, a  little  parsley,  i^  cup  butter  and  seasoning.    Mix 


VEGETABLES  •  171 

well  and  place  in  buttered  baking  dish.  Pour  a  little 
milk  around,  sprinkle  with  bread  crumbs,  and  bake 
half  an  hour. 

462.  Fried  Onions 

Groups  M.  F. 

Peel  onions,  cut  in  fairly  thin,  even  slices ;  fry  in  hot 
butter  or  olive  oil  until  nicely  browned. 

463.  Green  Onions 

Groups  M.  F. 

Green  onions  may  be  prepared  like  asparagus.  They 
are  wholesome  and  delicious.  If  strong,  they  may  be 
parboiled  and  the  water  utilized  for  soups  or  gravies. 

464.  Onion  Nests 

Groups  M.  F.  P.  St. 

Slice  onions,  stew  slowly  until  tender  in  a  small 
quantity  of  water,  thicken  with  flour  blended  with  but- 
ter, and  season  to  taste.  Fill  pastry  shells,  sprinkle 
with  equal  parts  sifted  bread  crumbs  and  finely  chopped 
nuts,  put  bits  of  butter  on  top,  and  brown  in  a  hot 
oven.  Form  small  balls  of  grated  cheese  seasoned  with 
a  little  red  pepper,  and  press  one  of  the  balls  into  the 
center  of  each  "nest." 

465.  Onions  with  Sauce 
Groups  M.  F.  P.— St. 

Boil  Bermuda  onions  in  salted  water;  when  tender 
cover  with  a  sauce  made  by  cooking  2  tablespoons  of 
butter  with  2  of  flour,  adding  enough  of  the  onion 
stock  to  make  the  right  consistency,  also  the  juice  of 


172  NATURE  CURE   COOK  BOOK 

1  lemon  and  a  little  grated  nutmeg;  when  cooked,  re- 
move from  the  fire,  add  2  well-beaten  eggs,  pour  over 
the  onions,  and  serve  on  toa^t. 


466.  Onion  Rings 
Groups  M.  F.  St.  P. 

Slice  and  peel  Spanish  onions  (not  too  thin),  cover 
with  sweet  milk  and  let  stand  ten  minutes,  remove  in 
rings  from  the  milk  with  a  fork,  dip  in  whole  wheat 
flour,  drop  into  hot  deep  fat  (equal  parts  oil  and  but- 
ter) and  let  brown. 

467.  Onions,  Southern  Stylo 

Groups  P.  M.— St.  F. 

Break  contents  of  a  can  of  savory  protose  into  suit- 
able pieces  with  a  fork,  add  4  large  onions  which  have 
been  peeled  and  sliced,  1  cup  tomatoes  cut  into  dice, 
1  cup  washed  rice  and  a  lump  of  butter;  add  a  little 
water,  cover,  and  let  cook  slowly  until  rice  is  soft. 

468.  Stuffed  Onions 

Groups  M.  St.  F.— P. 

Cut  a  plug  from  the  center  of  Bermuda  onions,  leav- 
ing a  cup-like  cavity.  Fill  this  with  bread  crumbs 
which  have  been  browned  in  butter,  a  little  chopped 
parsley  or  shredded  pimento,  and  a  few  chopped  nuts. 
Dust  lightly  with  salt,  place  in  a  deep  baking  dish  and 
bake  about  forty  minutes,  basting  frequently  with 
equal  parts  hot  water  and  melted  butter. 


VEGETABLES  173 

469.  Stuffed  Spanish  Onions 

Groups  M.  St.  r. 

Peel  6  good-sized  Spanish  onions,  remove  the  center 
of  each  onion  and  chop  fine  with  1  green  pepper;  add 
]  teaspoon  salt,  a  little  melted  butter,  and  1  cup  boiled 
rice;  fill  the  onion  shells  with  this  mixture,  sprinkle 
with  paprika,  set  in  a  baking  pan,  add  1  cup  vegetable 
stock,  and  bake  in  the  oven  until  tender. 

PAESNIPS 

470.  Parsnip  Balls 

Groups  St.  S.  F.  P.  M. 

Boil  6  parsnips  in  slightly  salted  water  until  tender; 
mash  and  season  to  taste;  add  %  cup  cream,  2  table- 
spoons melted  butter,  the  whites  of  2  eggs  beaten 
lightly,  and  I/2  cup  sifted  cracker  crumbs.  Form  into 
small  balls  with  butter  paddles  and  brown  in  butter  or 
olive  oil. 

To  give  the  appearance  of  potatoes  boiled  in  their 
jackets,  make  a  gash  in  each  ball,  sprinkle  with  chopped 
parsley  and  serve  with  tomato  sauce. 

471.  Escalloped  Parsnips 
Groups  St.  M.— S.  F.  P. 

Peel  and  steam  parsnips  until  tender;  slice;  put  al- 
ternate layers  of  parsnips  and  cracker  crumbs  in  a 
well-buttered  baking  dish,  dot  with  bits  of  butter, 
having  the  top  layer  of  crumbs;  cover  with  milk  and 
bake  about  forty  minutes. 


174  NATURE   CURE   COOK  BOOK 

472.  Fricassee  of  Parsnips 

Groupa  St.  S.  M,— F.  P. 

Scrape  6  medium-sized  parsnips,  remove  the  fibrous 
center,  cut  into  large  dice,  cook  in  milk  in  a  double 
boiler  until  nearly  tender.  Add  a  dessertspoon  of  but- 
ter,  seasoning"  to  taste,  thicken  with  flour  rubbed  smooth 
in  a  little  milk,  and  let  simmer  about  twenty  minutes 
longer.  Sprinkle  shredded  pimentoes  or  green  sweet 
peppers  over  the  top  before  serving. 

473.  Stewed  Parsnips 

Groups  St.  S.  M.  F. 

Scrape  and  wash  parsnips,  cut  into  inch-long  pieces, 
stew  in  water  enough  to  cover  until  tender,  add  butter, 
seasoning,  and  a  little  cream. 

OBEEN  PEAS 

474.  Green  Peas  a  I'Allemande 

Groups  M.  S.  F.— St.  P. 

Cook  slowly  for  about  half  an  hour  1  quart  shelled 
green  peas,  1  sweet  pepper,  1  head  lettuce  chopped  fine, 
1  onion,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  a  little  salt,  1  lump 
of  loaf  sugar,  and  a  little  grated  nutmeg.  Instead  of 
water  use  a  small  quantity  of  good  vegetable  con- 
somme. When  ready  to  serve,  remove  the  onion  and 
thicken  with  1  teaspoon  each  of  flour  and  butter. 

475.  Green  Peas  a  la  Francaise 

Groups  S.  St.  F.— M.  P. 

Drain  the  water  from  1  quart  freshly  cooked  green 
peas.  Add  a  white  sauce  made  with  2  tablespoons  but- 
ter, 1  of  flour,  and  1  cup  cream.    Add  a  level  teaspoon 


VEGETABLES  175 

BUgar,  and  let  simmer  about  teu  minutes.  Serve  in  a 
border  of  small  roasted  potatoes  and  sprinkle  with 
minced  parsley. 

476.  Peas  and  Carrots  (German  Style) 

Groups  S.  M.  F.— St.  P. 
Cook  equal  quantities  of  fresh  green  peas  and  young 
carrots.     Thicken  with  flour  and  butter,  add  a  little 
sugar,  and  season  to  taste.     Heat  thoroughly,  stir  in 
a  little  finely  chopped  parsley  and  serve  at  once. 

477.  Peas  in  Cases 

Groups  S.  F.  M.— St.  P. 

Shell  and  cook  fresh  green  peas  to  make  1  quart  (or 
use  canned  peas)  and  drain  off  the  liquid.  Make  a 
sauce  of  butter,  flour  and  the  water  in  which  the  peas 
were  cooked.  Add  the  peas,  let  simmer  about  five  min- 
utes, season  to  taste.  Combine  the  yolk  of  1  egg  and  3 
tablespoons  cream,  and  add.  Heat  thoroughly  and 
serve  in  patty  shells,  garnished  with  sprigs  of  fresh 
mint. 

478.  Creamed  Green  Peas 

Groups  S.  F.  M.— St.  P. 
Cook  1  quart  shelled  green  peas  in  a  small  quantity 
of  water  until  nearly  tender ;  add  1  cup  cream,  a  little 
sugar,  and  seasoning  to  taste.    Let  simmer  until  ten- 
der; thicken  with  a  little  flour  dissolved  in  milk. 

479.  Green  Peas  Pie 

Groups  M.  S.  St.  P.— P. 
Cook  slowly  together  1  quart  shelled  green  peas  and 
about  10  green  onions  cut  fine,  in  water  enough  to 


176  NATURE    CURE   COOK   BOOK 

cover,  to  which  a  generous  lump  of  butter  has  been 
added.  Line  a  buttered  baking-dish  with  mashed  pota* 
toes,  seasoned  to  taste  (about  %  inch  deep),  put  in 
peas  and  onions,  cover  with  another  layer  of  potatoes, 
brush  melted  butter  over  the  top,  and  heat  in  fairly 
hot  oven  until  nicely  browned. 


480.  Green  Peas,  Plain 

Groups  S.  M.  F.— St.  P. 

Shell  fresh  peas,  add  just  enough  water  to  cover, 
cook  until  tender,  but  no  longer  than  necessary;  add 
butter  and  seasoning  to  suit  taste.  A  little  sugar  will 
improve  the  flavor. 

481.  Green  Peas  Scrambled  With  Eggs 

Groups  S.  F.  P.  HI— St. 

Reheat  peas  in  a  skillet  with  a  lump  of  butter  and  a 
little  water,  season  to  taste,  and  add  1  tablespoon 
minced  parsley  or  mint.  Pour  over  well-beaten  eggs 
(as  many  as  required),  stir  constantly  until  all  the 
egg  is  set,  but  not  too  hard.  Serve  at  once  with  hot 
buttered  toast. 

482.  Green  Peas  Timbales 

Groups  S.  F.  P.  M.— St. 

Mash  1  quart  of  green  peas  through  a  colander;  to 
this  puree  add  2  eggs,  2  tablespoons  melted  butter, 
1  or  2  teaspoons  onion  juice,  according  to  taste,  and 
seasoning.  Mix  well,  fill  buttered  timbale  molds,  and 
bake  until  nicely  browned. 


VEGETABLES  177 

483.  Peas  and  Potatoes 

Groups  St.  S.  M.  F.— P. 

Pare  and  cut  into  dice  4  good-sized  potatoes,  cover 
with  water  and  let  cook  ten  minutes.  Add  1  quart 
shelled  green  peas  and  cook  until  tender;  add  butter 
and  seasoning'.  Thicken  with  1  heaping  teaspoon  flour 
rubbed  smooth  in  a  little  cold  water.  Let  boil  up  a 
few  times.  Before  serving  add  2  tablespoons  whipped 
cream. 

484.  Peas  on  Toast 

Groups  S.  M.  F.— St.  P. 

,  Reh6at  about  2  cups  cooked  peas  in  a  sauce  made 
with  2  tablespoons  butter,  1  tablespoon  flour,  1  of  sugar, 
the  juice  of  1  lemon  and  1  cup  water.  Serve  on 
squares  of  hot  buttered  toast,  sprinkled  with  minced 
parsley. 

GREEN  PEPPERS 

485.  Cheese  and  Green  Peppers 

Groups  M.  F.  P.— St. 

Cut  a  small  piece  from  the  top  of  6  large  sweet 
peppers,  scoop  out  the  seeds  with  a  sharp-edged  spoon, 
put  in  cold  water  for  about  half  an  houi*;  drain  and 
wipe  dry.  For  the  filling,  mix  1  cup  boiled  rice,  ^ 
cup  each  grated  cheese  and  chopped  nuts,  salt  to  taste. 
Fill  the  peppers  and  place  on  end  in  a  well-buttered 
baking-dish,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  about  thirty 
minutes.  Baste  occasionally  with  equal  parts  melted 
butter  and  hot  water. 


178  NATURE   CURE   COOK  BOOK 

486.  Filled  Green  Peppers,  Boiled 

Groups  M.  St.  P.  F. 

Cut  the  tops  from  large  green  sweet  peppers,  scoop 
out  the  seeds,  scald  in  hot  water  ten  minutes;  drain 
and  fill  with  equal  parts  cold  boiled  rice,  young  green 
peas,  and  tomatoes  cut  into  dice,  mixed  together  and 
seasoned  to  taste.  Replace  the  tops,  set  on  end  in  a 
saucepan  in  water  about  one  inch  deep  to  which  a 
lump  of  butter  has  been  added ;  cover  closely  and'  let 
steam  until  tender,  about  thirty  minutes,  adding  more 
water  if  necessary.     Serve  with  tomato  sauce. 

487.  Green  Peppers  With  Protose 

Groups  M.  St.  P. 

Prepare  peppers  as  directed  in  Recipe  No.  485,  Green 
Peppers.  Fill  with  a  mixture  of  cold  boiled  rice  and 
savory  protose,  moistened  with  vegetable  stock.  Set 
on  end  in  a  deep  baking-dish,  add  1  pint  good  stock, 
cover  and  bake  until  tender,  or  about  twenty-five  min- 
utes, then  remove  cover  and  let  brown. 

488.  Peppers  a  la  Creole 

Groups  M.  St.  F.— P, 

•  Remove  seeds  and  veins  from  6  green  peppers;  boil 
fifteen  minutes,  then  chop  fine ;  cover  the  bottom  of  a 
buttered  baking-dish  with  a  layer  of  bread  crumbs, 
then  a  layer  of  sliced  tomatoes,  and  sprinkle  with  finely 
chopped  nuts  and  a  little  salt,  then  a  layer  of  green 
peppers,  and  so  on  until  the  dish  is  filled;  pour  over 
this  1  cup  hot  water,  dot  with  butter,  and  bake  half 
an  hour. 


VEGETABLES  179 

489.  Sauted  Green  Peppers 

Groups  M.  F.  P.  St. 
Cut  green  peppers  into  y^  inch  slices,  sprinkle  -mtli 
salt  and  let  stand  about  two  hours.  Wash,  dry,  roll 
in  eggf  and  bread  crumbs,  then  saute  in  butter.  Cover 
and  let  cook  slowly,  browning  first  one  side,  then  the 
other. 

490.  Stuffed  Green  Peppers 

Groups  P.  F.  St. — M. 

3  cups  bread  crumbs,  1  can  savory  protose,  %  cup 
mushrooms  and  1  Spanish  onion,  chopped  fine,  3  eggs, 
1  cup  cream,  a  little  minced  parsley,  2  tablespoons 
melted  butter,  seasoning  to  taste;  mix  well,  fill  pep- 
pers, place  in  buttered  baking-dish,  half  fill  pan  with 
water,  dot  with  butter,  and  bake  forty  minutes. 

491.  Victoria  Peppers 

Groups  M.  P.  P.— S. 
Remove  the  seeds  and  veins  from  peppers,  cut  in 
strips  and  cover  with  cold  water;  bring  to  the  boiling 
point  and  boil  ten  minutes;  drain;  to  6  peppers  add 
1  chopped  onion,  1  cup  boiled  green  peas,  1  cup  celery 
cut  fine,  3  tomatoes  sliced,  salt,  3  tablespoons  Parmesan 
cheese  and  3  of  melted  butter;  mix  all  together,  then 
put  into  a  buttered  pan,  cover  with  bread  crumbs, 
pour  half  a  cup  of  water  over,  dot  with  butter,  and 
bake. 

POTATOES 

492.  Potatoes  and  Apples 

Groups  M.  St,  P.— S.  P. 
Peel  and  cut  into  slices  6  medium-sized  potatoes, 
cover  with  boiling  water,  and  let  cook  ten  minutes, 


180  NATURE   CURE   COOK  BOOK 

then  add  an  equal  amount  of  apples,  peeled,  cored  and 
cut  in  pieces.  Let  boil  until  soft,  mash  through  a 
colander,  add  salt  and  a  generous  piece  of  butter; 
beat  well,  reheat,  and  serve  with  brown  butter. 

493.  Potatoes  au  Gratin 

Groups  St.  F.  P.  M.— S. 

Peel  and  cut  into  cubes  potatoes  that  have  been 
boiled  in  their  jackets.  Put  a  layer  of  potatoes  into 
a  buttered  baking-dish,  sprinkle  lightly  with  salt,  grate 
cheese  over,  and  dot  with  bits  of  butter.  Add  alter- 
nate layers  of  potatoes  and  cheese  until  the  dish  is 
nearly  full.  Cover  the  top  with  bread  crumbs  and  fill 
the  dish  with  milk  to  barely  cover  the  contents.  Bake 
about  thirty  minutes,  and  let  brown  nicely. 

494.  Baked  Potatoes 

Groups  St.  M.— P. 

Select  potatoes  of  an  even  size,  scrub  well  with  a 
vegetable  brush,  wipe  dry  and  put  in  a  fairly  hot 
oven.  Bake  until  they  are  soft  to  the  touch.  Break 
the  skin  of  each  a  little  to  allow  the  moisture  to 
escape. 

Another  way  is  to  brush  the  potatoes  with  butter 
or  olive  oil  before  baking,  and  to  prick  the  skin  with 
a  fork.  The  skin  may  then  be  peeled  off  with  almost 
no  waste. 

495.  Boiled  Potatoes 

Groups  Et.  1,1— P. 

Peel  and  wash  potatoes,  cut  in  suitable  pieces,  cover 
with  boiling  water  and  let  boil  until  soft,  from  twenty- 


VEGETABLES  181 

five  to  thirty-five  minutes.  When  nearly  done,  add 
salt.  Pour  off  the  water,  shake  over  the  fire  until  the 
excess  moisture  is  absorbed,  cover  with  a  cloth  and 
put  on  the  back  of  the  stove  to  keep  hot. 

496.  Potatoes  Boiled  in  Their  Jackets 

Groups  St.  M.— P. 

Select  potatoes  of  uniform  size,  wash  well  and  re- 
move eyes.  Cover  with  boiling  water  and  boil  until 
soft,  adding  salt  when  nearly  done.  Drain,  remove 
the  lid,  place  on  a  warm  part  of  the  stove  to  absorb 
the  moisture,  and  shake  a  few  times. 

497.  Boiled  New  Potatoes 

Groups  St.  M.— P. 

If  the  potato  skin  is  tender,  it  may  be  scraped  off 
with  a  knife  or  stiff  brush.  Cover  with  boiling  water 
and  let  boil  rapidly  until  done  (about  twenty  minutes), 
adding  salt  when  nearly  done.  Drain,  add  chopped 
parsley,  and  shake  over  the  fire  for  a  few  minutes. 

498.  Browned  Potatoes 

Groups  St.  M.  r.—P. 

Select  small  potatoes,  pare,  cook  in  slightly  salted 
water  until  done,  drain,  and  brown  in  butter. 

499.  Creamed  Potatoes 

Groups  St  M.  F. 

Boil  small  potatoes  in  their  jackets  and  peel  while 
hot.  Pour  over  hot  milk,  thickened  with  flour.  Sea- 
son to  taste,  add  butter,  sprinkle  with  minced  parsley, 
and  let  cook  a  few  minutes. 


182  NATURE   CURE   COOK  BOOK 

500,  Delicious  Potato  Dumplings  (1) 

Groups  St.  F.— P.  M. 

Put  about  12  cooked  potatoes  through  a  potato  ricer, 
add  2  tablespoons  flour,  1  cup  bread  crumbs,  1  large 
onion,  grated,  a  little  minced  parsley,  2  eggs,  and  salt 
to  taste.  Mix  well,  form  into  balls,  and  drop  into 
boiling  salted  water.  (The  water  should  not  be  allowed 
to  stop  boiling,  or  the  dumplings  will  fall  apart.)  Aa 
they  rise  to  the  top,  remove  with  a  skimmer,  place  on 
a  heated  platter,  cover  thickly  with  bread  crumbs  fried 
in  butter,  and  serve  garnished  with  parsley. 


501.  Potato  Dumplings  (2) 

Groups  St.  F.  P. 

Stir  1  tablespoon  soft  butter  with  yolks  of  2  eggs, 
1  cup  grated  bread  crumbs,  1  cup  grated  boiled  pota- 
toes, a  pinch  of  mace,  and  a  little  salt;  mix  thoroughly, 
fold  in  the  beaten  whites  of  2  eggs ;  shape  into  dump- 
lings and  cook  eight  minutes  in  boiling  salted  water. 


502.  French  Pried  Potatoes 

Groups  St.  F.— M.  P. 

Cut  potatoes  into  narrow,  lengthwise  strips,  put  into 
ice  water  for  an  hour,  drain,  toss  in  a  cloth  until  dry, 
then  drop  into  deep  fat  (equal  parts  butter  and  olive 
oil),  and  fry  until  brown  and  crisp.  Drain  on  clean 
napkin  and  dust  with  salt  while  hot. 

Note: — Saratoga  potatoes  are  prepared  in  the  same 
way,  except  that  the  potatoes  are  sliced  very  thin. 


VEGETABLES  183 

503.  German  Fried  Potatoes 

Groups  St.  F.— M.  P. 

Slice  cold  boiled  potatoes,  and  fry  in  butter  or  olive 
oil,  turning  frequently  until  nicely  browned.  Season 
to  taste.  If  desired,  sliced  onions  may  be  fried  with 
the  potatoes. 

504.  Fried  Raw  Potatoes 

Groups  St.  F.— M.  P. 

Peel  potatoes  and  cut  into  slices  about  %  inch  thick. 
Put  into  frying-pan  with  melted  butter  and  oil,  cover 
closelj',  season,  and  let  cook  about  fifteen  minutes. 
Shake  the  pan  occasionally,  taking  care  not  to  break 
the  slices. 

505.  Potatoes  on  the  Half  Shell 

Groups  St.  F.— P.  M. 

Bake  potatoes  of  uniform  size,  cut  in  halves  length- 
wise, scoop  out  inside,  mash  with  butter,  milk  or  cream, 
and  salt  to  taste.  Beat  until  very  light,  fold  in  the 
stiflfly-beaten  whites  of  2  or  3  eggs,  and  put  back  into 
the  shells.  Heat  and  brown  on  top  under  the  broiler 
or  in  a  hot  oven.  Just  before  serving  put  a  small 
piece  of  butter  on  each  half.  Garnish  with  sprigs  of 
parsley. 

506.  Potato  Hash 

Groups  St.  M.— P.  F. 

Chop  cold  boiled  potatoes,  dust  with  salt  and  minced 
onion,  pour  over  1  cup  rich  milk,  cover  closely,  and 
let  cook  until  the  potatoes  are  thoroughly  heated,  shak- 
ing occasionally. 


184  NATURE   CURE   COOK  EOOK 

507.  Hashed  Brown  Potatoes 

Groups  St.  F.— M.  P. 
Chop  5  or  6  cold  boiled  potatoes  rather  fine,  and  add 
seasoning  to  taste.  Melt  1  tablespoon  butter  in  a  fry- 
ing-pan and  add  the  potatoes,  spreading  them  well 
over  the  bottom  of  the  pan.  Cook  over  a  slow  fire, 
turning  pan  around  from  time  to  time,  but  without 
shaking  or  stirring.  In  about  twenty  minutes  a  nice 
crust  will  have  formed.  Roll  potatoes  carefully  like 
an  omelet  and  serve  on  a  hot  dish  garnished  with  pars- 
ley or  v/a,tercress. 

508.  Lyonndse  Potatoes 

Groups  St.  F.  M.— P. 
Boil  6  potatoes  in  their  jackets,  peel  while  hot,  and 
cut  into  dice.  Pleat  1  onion,  chopped  fine,  in  butter 
until  it  turns  yellow.  Add  the  potatoes  and  cook  about 
ten  minutes,  stirring  well.  They  should  not  brown. 
Add  seasoning  and  serve  hot. 

509.  Mashed  Potatoes 

Groups  St.  F.  M. — P. 

Pare  and  wash  potatoes,  cut  in  pieces,  pour  boiling 
water  over  and  let  boil  rapidly  until  tender,  adding 
salt  toward  the  last.  Drain,  mash,  add  butter  and  a 
little  hot  milk.  Beat  until  light,  and  reheat  in  the 
oven  for  a  few  minutes,  or  place  over  boiling  water. 

510.  Mashed  Potato  Balls 

Groups  St.  r.— P.  M. 
Mix  well  2  cups  mashed  potatoes,  1  egg,  l^  cup 
milk,  1/2  cup  flour,  and  seasoning.      Form  into  balls 
and  fry  in  deep  oil  until  brown. 


VEGETABLES  185 

511.  Potato  Muffins  (a  la  Herzog) 

Groups  St.  P.— M. 

Put  mashed  potatoes,  seasoned  to  taste,  into  buttered 
muffin-paus.  Cover  with  white  of  egg,  beaten  stiff  j 
heat  in  oven,  let  brown  on  top,  and  serve  hot. 

512.  Potato  Puff  V       > 

Groups  St.  F.  P.— S.  M. 

To  3  cups  hot  mashed  potatoes  add  1  small  cup  of 
hot  milk  and  the  beaten  yolks  of  2  eggs;  season  to 
taste,  add  a  teaspoon  of  chopped  parsley,  beat  until 
very  light,  then  fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of 
the  eggs;  turn  into  a  buttered  baking-dish  and  bake 
in  moderate  oven  until  the  puff  has  risen  and  become 
brown. 

Note : — Sweet  potato  puff  may  be  made  in  the  same 
manner. 

513.  Potato,  Southern  Style 

Groups  M.  St.  F.— P. 

Peel  and  slice  nice,  firm  potatoes  and  Spanish  onions ; 
place  alternate  layers  of  potatoes  and  onions  in  but- 
tered baking-dish.  Sprinkle  salt  over  each  layer  and 
dot  with  butter.  To  6  potatoes  add  about  V2  cup 
water.     Cover  tightly  and  let  simmer  until  tender. 

514.  Parsley  Potatoes 

Groups  St.  M.— F.  P. 

Put  a  layer  of  sliced  raw  potatoes  into  a  flat-bot- 
tomed stew-pan,  sprinkle  with  chopped  parsley,  dot 
with  butter.     Add  another  layer  of  potatoes  and  pars- 


186  NATURE   CURE  COOK  BOOK 

ley,  and  so  on  imtil  the  dish  is  filled.  Cover  the  bot- 
tom of  pan  with  water,  add  a  little  butter,  cover  closely 
and  let  simmer  until  the  potatoes  are  soft  (about 
thirty  minutes). 


515.  Puffed  Potatoes 

Groups  St.  F.— M.  P. 

Peel  nice  white  potatoes,  cut  into  slices  Vi  inch 
thick,  lay  in  iee  water  for  half  an  hour,  drain  and 
wipe  dry.  Fry  until  brown  in  smoking-hot  deep  fat 
(equal  parts  butter  and  olive  oil).  Let  cool  for  sev- 
eral hours.  Just  before  serving,  place  in  sraoking- 
hot  fat  again  for  a  few  minutes.  Dust  lightly  with 
fine  salt  and  serve  at  once. 

51G.  Roasted  Potatoes 

Groups  St.  M.— F. 

Peel  large  potatoes,  cut  in  halves  lengthwise,  place 
in  baking-pan  with  some  butter,  dust  with  salt  and 

roast  in  the  oven  until  tender  and  nicely  browned. 

• 

517.  Scalloped  Potatoes 

Groups  St.  F. — ^M.  P.  S. 

Slice  raw  potatoes  rather  thin.  Put  a  layer  into  a 
buttered  baking-dish,  spriiikle  lightly  with  salt,  a  little 
flour,  and,  if  desired,  with  finely  minced  onions.  Add 
another  layer  of  potatoes  and  proceed  as  before,  dot- 
ting each,  layer  with  bits  of  butter.  When  the  dish 
is  nearly  filled,  add  hot  milk  to  almost  cover  potatoes, 
and  bake  one  hour. 


VEGETABLES  187 

518.  Smothered  Potatoes 
Groups  St.  F.  P.— M.  S. 

Pare  and  slice  6  large  potatoes,  put  them  in  a  but- 
tered baking-dish,  and  pour  over  a  white  sauce  made 
from  1  tablespoon  each  of  flour  and  butter,  1  pint  of 
milk  and  seasoning  to  taste.  Cover  closely  and  bake 
forty  minutes;  then  remove  cover,  spread  2  well- 
beaten  eggs  over  contents  of  pan,  and  let  bake  twenty 
minutes  longer.     Onions  may  be  added  if  desired. 

SWEET  POTATOES 

519.  Baked  Sweet  Potatoes 

Groups  S.  St.  M.— P. 
Follow  directions  for  Baked  Potatoes,  Recipe  No. 
494,  "Potatoes." 

520.  Boiled  Sweet  Potatoes 

Groups  S.  St.  M.— P. 
Wash  well,  pour  boiling  water  over  and  let  boil 
rapidly  until  tender.     Drain,  peel,  and  set  in  the  oven 
for  a  minute  or  two  to  remove  excess  moisture. 

521.  Browned  Sweet  Potatoes 

Groups  S.  St.  M.— P. 
Boil  sweet  potatoes  until  they  can  be  pierced  with 
a  fork,  but  do  not  let  them  get  too  soft.     Drain,  peel, 
spi'inkle  lightly  with  sugar,  roll  in  melted  butter,  and 
brown  in  the  oven  or  frying  pan. 

522.  Pried  Sweet  Potatoes 

Groups  S.  St.  M.— F.  P. 
Boil  sweet  potatoes  until  tender,  peel,  cut  in  thick 
slices,  and  brown  in  butter  or  oil, 


188  NATURE   CURE   COOK  BOOK 

523.  Mashed  Sweet  Potatoes 

Groups  S.  St.  F.— M.  P. 

Boil  sweet  potatoes  until  tender,  peel  while  hot, 
mash,  season  with  butter  and  salt,  add  a  little  cream 
or  milk,  and  reheat  by  placing  in  the  oven,  or  set  into 
a  dish  of  boiling  water. 

524.  Stuffed  Sweet  Potatoes 

Groups  S.  St.  F.— P.  M. 

Wash  thoroughly  sweet  potatoes  of  uniform  size, 
and  bake  until  tender,  taking  care  not  to  break  the 
skin.  Split  lengthwise,  remove  contents  carefully, 
mash  with  butter  and  seasoning  (add  chopped  nuts,  if 
desired),  refill  the  skins,  and  set  in  the  oven  until 
thoroughly  heated  and  nicely  browned. 

525.  Sweet  Potato  Cakes 

Groups  S.  St.  F.— M.  P. 

Mash  boiled  or  baked  sweet  potatoes,  season,  add 
melted  butter  and  a  little  cream;  form  small,  round 
cakes,  and  brown  in  butter  in  a  skillet  or  oven. 
Chopped  English  walnuts  may  be  added. 

526.  Sweet  Potatoes  a  la  Creole 

Groups  S.  St.  F.  P.— M. 

Peel  large  sweet  potatoes  and  cut  in  pieces  length- 
wise; put  into  a  buttered  baking-dish  and  cover  with 
milk;  add  a  pinch  of  salt  and  dot  with  butter;  wet 
y^i  cup  bread. crumbs  with  2  eggs  lightly  beaten;  cover 
the  potatoes  with  this  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 


VEGETABLES  189 

527.  Sweet  Potato  Muffins 

Groups  S.  St.  F.  P.— M. 

Mix  well  %  cup  mashed  sweet  potatoes,  2  well- 
beaten  eggs,  and  3  tablespoons  sugar;  add  to  this  1 
cup  milk,  2  cups  flour,  salt,  and  1  scant  tablespoon 
melted  butter.  Beat  well,  and  bake  in  buttered  muf- 
fin-pans in  a  moderate  oven  about  twenty  minutes. 

Note : — Chopped  nuts  and  raisins  may  be  added. 

528.  Sweet  Potatoes,  Southern  Style 

Groups  S.  St.— F.  P.  M. 

Cook  the  potatoes  in  their  skins  until  tender;  cut 
into  rather  thick  slices  and  lay  in  a  greased  baking- 
dish:  sprinkle  butter  and  sugar  between  the  layers, 
bake  half  an  hour  in  a  moderate  oven,  and  serve  in 
the  same  dish  in  which  they  were  baked. 

529.  Sweet  Potatoes  in  Syrup 

Groups  S.  St.  F.— P.  M. 

Boil  sweet  potatoes  until  nearly  tender,  then  drain, 
saving  about  a  cup  of  the  water.  Peel  the  potatoes, 
put  back  ten  minutes  longer,  or  until  tender,  take  out 
with  a  skimmer,  and  put  into  a  baking-pan  with  1 
tablespoon  butter.  Pour  the  syrup  over  them,  adding 
a  little  extract  of  vanilla,  and  brown  quickly  in  the 
oven. 

SALSIFY  (OYSTER  PLANT) 

530.  Baked  Salsify 
Groups  St.  S.  F.  P.  M. 

Scrape  and  cook  salsify;  do  not  cut;  cover  the 
bottom  of  a  baking  dish  with  bread  crumbs,  next  with 


190  NATURE   CURE   COOK  BOOK 

salsify,  then  grated  cheese;  dust  with  salt;  repeat  until 
the  dish  is  filled ;  then  cover  with  milk  and  put  a  thick 
layer  of  cheese  on  top;  bake  thirty  minutes  in  a  hot 
oven;  serve  at  once. 

■    531.  DevUed  Salsify 

Groups  St.  S.  M.  F.— P. 

Scrape  and  cut  3  bunches  of  salsify  in  long  strips; 
cook  in  slightly  salted  water;  make  a  gravy  of  4 
tablespoons  melted  butter  and  4  of  flour;  add  salsify 
stock  to  make  the  right  consistency;  put  a  layer  of 
salsify  in  a  buttered  baking  dish,  sprinkle  with  onion 
and  sweet  peppers  chopped  fine,  salt,  and  bits  of  but- 
ter; then  pour  the  gravy  over,  cover  with  bread 
crumbs,  and  bake  about  thirty  minutes;  serve  with 
sections  of  lemon. 

532.  Potted  Salsify 

Groups  St.  S.  M.  F.— P. 

Scrape  and  cook  salsify,  drain  and  chop  fine,  season 
with  salt  and  tomato  ketchup.  Line  buttered  molds 
with  boiled  rice;  fill  with  salsify  mixtm-e,  add  a  few 
tablespoons  cream,  dot  with  butter,  and  bake  from 
twenty  to  thirty  minutes. 

533.  Escalloped  Salsify 
Groups  St.  F.  P.  S.--M. 

Peel  and  cook  salsify;  put  into  a  buttered  baking 
dish  first  a  layer  of  salsify,  cover  with  bread  crumbs, 
then  another  layer  of  salsify  and  crumbs  until  the  dish 
is  filled.  Beat  3  eggs  with  1  quart  of  milk;  season, 
pour  over  salsify,  dot  with  butter,  and  bake. 


VEGETABLES  191 

534.  Salsify  Stew 
Groups  M.  S.  St.  F.  P. 

Boil  salsify  until  tender,  then  peel  and  cut  into 
small  strips;  make  a  cream  gravy,  add  the  salsify, 
season,  and  let  come  to  a  boil.  Sprinkle  with  hard- 
boiled  eggs  chopped  fine,  and  serve. 

535.  Salsify  Souffle 
Groups  St.  F.  P.  M.—S. 

Melt  2  tablespoons  butter  and  add  2  of  flour,  and  2 
cups  milk;  cook  five  minutes;  then  add  I/2  cup  mush- 
rooms, 2  cups  salsify  peeled  and  cut  in  small  pieces, 
the  yolks  of  2  eggs,  seasoning,  a  little  chopped  parsley, 
juice  of  1/2  lemon,  and  the  stifflj^-beaten  whites  of  the 
eggs;  turn  into  a  buttered  fireproof  dish,  cover  witli 
bread  crumbs  fried  in  butter,  and  bake  twenty  min- 
utes in  a  pan  of  hot  water.  Serve  hot  in  dish  in 
which  it  was  baked. 

536.  Mock  Oyster  Patties 

Groups   See   C.   F. 

Follow  directions  for  Carrot  Fritters,  substituting 
salsify  (oyster  plant)  for  carrots. 

Note : — Parsnip  Patties  may  be  prepared  in  a  similar 
manner. 

SPINACH 

537.  Baked  Spinach  (1) 

Groups  III  F.  P. 

Pick  over  1  peck  spinach,  rinse  several  times,  put  in 
an  aluminum  or  granite  kettle  and  cook  about  ten 
minutes.    It  will  not  be  necessary  to  add  water.    Drain* 


192  NATURE  CURE  COOK  BOOK 

chop,  add  5  hard-boiled  eggs  chopped  fine,  plenty  of 
butter,  and  seasoning  to  taste.  Put  into  a  well-but- 
tered baking-dish  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  fifteen 
to  twenty  minutes.      Garnish  with  sections  of  lemon. 


538.  Baked  Spinach  (2) 

Groups  M.  St.— F.  P. 

Clean  spinach  well,  cut  into  shreds.  Put  1  table- 
spoon of  butter  into  a  saucepan,  add  the  spinach,  and 
let  cook  five  minutes,  turning  frequently.  Put  a  layer 
of  mashed  potatoes  into  a  buttered  baking-dish,  then 
a  layer  of  spinach,  alternating  potatoes  and  spinach, 
having  the  last  layer  of  potato.  Cover  with  bread 
crumbs,  dot  with  bits  of  butter,  and  bake  about  twenty 
minutes,  until  nice  and  brown.  Serve  in  the  dish  in 
which  it  was  baked. 

539.  Plain  Boiled  Spinach 

Groups  M.  F. 

Rinse  spinach  in  several  waters,  transfer  from  the 
last  water  into  a  stewpan,  let  cook  slowly  until  tender 
(about  twenty  minutes).  Serve  very  hot  with  fresh 
butter. 

540.  Creamed  Spinach 

Groups  M.  F.  P.— St. 

To  1  quart  cooked  and  chopped  spinach  add  1  cup 
rich  milk  or  cream,  I/2  cup  bread  crumbs,  butter,  salt, 
and  a  little  sugar.  Heat  thoroughly,  and  serve  on 
toast. 


VEGETABLES  193 

641.  Spinach  in  Cases 

Groups  M.  St.  F.  P. 

Cut  thick  slices  of  whole  wheat  bread  in  half,  remove 
a  portion  of  the  center,  leaving  a  hollow  space.  Dip 
the  bread  iu  beaten  egg  and  fry  on  both  sides  in  but- 
ter. Fill  the  centers  with  freshly  cooked  and  well- 
seasoned  spinach. 

542.  Spinach  in  Cups 

Groups  F.  P.  M. 

Cook  spinach,  drain,  and  chop  fine.  Cut  about 
twelve  hard-boiled  eggs  in  half,  remove  yolks,  cut  a 
small  piece  from  the  ends,  and  stand  upright  on  a 
platter.  To  the  yolks  add  %  teaspoon  each  of  minced 
onion,  green  pepper  and  sugar,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  1 
tablespoon  of  melted  butter.  Mix  thoroughly,  add 
lemon  juice  to  the  consistency  of  mashed  potatoes. 
Reheat  the  spinach,  fill  the  egg  cups,  leaving  a  white 
rim.  Press  the  yolks,  prepared  as  directed  above, 
through  a  potato  ricer,  over  the  whole.  Serve  with 
slices  of  lemon. 


543.  Spinach  and  Eggs 

Groups  M.  F.  P. 

Pick  over  1  peck  spinach,  wash  well,  drain  and  chop. 
Cook  slowly  in  very  little  water  until  tender  (about 
twenty  minutes),  add  1  heaping  teaspoon  flour  rubbed 
smooth  in  a  little  milk,  cook  a  few  minutes  longer, 
season  to  taste,  and  serve  on  a  heated  platter  with 
poached  eggs. 


194  NATURE   CURE    COOK   BOOK 

544.  Spinach  a  la  Mode 

Groups  M.  F.  P.  St 

Clean  spinach  thoroughly,  cook  until  tender,  season, 
add  butter,  and  serve  on  slices  of  buttered  toast  dipped 
into  hot  milk,  with  a  poached  egg  on  each  portion. 


545.  Spinach  on  Toast 

Groups  M.  St.  F.  P. 

Chop  cooked  spinach  fine,  heat  thoroughly  in  butter 
and  a  very  little  water,  stirring  often  to  prevent 
burning.  Season  to  taste,  serve  on  slices  of  hot  but- 
tered toast  and  garnish  with  hard-boiled  eggs  or 
sprinkle  with  grated  cheese. 


546.  Souffle  of  Spinach 

Groups  M.  F.  P.— St. 

Clean  and  rinse  thoroughly  about  %  peek  spinach, 
cook  with  1  large  tablespoon  of  butter  for  about  ten 
minutes;  cut  with  a  sharp  knife  in  both  directions. 
Melt  2  ounces  butter,  sift  in  2  ounces  of  flour,  stir  until 
well  blended,  and  add  i/^  pint  of  milk.  When  it  boils, 
add  2  ounces  Parmesan  cheese.  Season  to  taste,  add 
spinach,  the  well-beaten  yolks  of  3  eggs,  and,  lastly, 
fold  in  carefully  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  beaten  very 
stiff.      Bake  twenty  minutes  and  serve  at  once. 

Note : — Dandelion  greens,  mustard,  lamb 's  quarters, 
young  beet  tops,  etc.,  may  be  prepared  in  the  same 
manner  as  spinach. 


VEGETABLES  195 

SQUASH  AND  PUMPKIN 

547.  Creamed  Squash 

Groups  M.  S.  F.— P.  St. 

Pare  squash,  remove  seeds,  cut  in  pieces,  stew  in 
very  little  water  until  soft.  Pour  over  a  good  white 
sauce  (add  lemon  juice,  if  desired),  season  to  taste, 
heat  thoroughly,  and  serve  at  once. 

548.  Escalloped  Squash 

Groups  M.  S.  F.— St.  S. 

Peel  squash  and  cut  in  thin  strips;  put  a  layer  in 
a  buttered  baking-dish,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  dots  of 
butter;  repeat  until  the  dish  is  filled,  then  cover  with 
sweet  milk;  sprinkle  bread  crumbs  over  the  top  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

549.  Fried  Squash 

Groups  M.  S.— St.  F. 

Take  3  or  4  small,  tender  squashes,  cut  in  slices 
about  half  an  inch  thick,  remove  the  seeds,  steam  for 
half  an  hour,  then  roll  in  flour  and  fry  in  butter. 

550.  Mashed  Squash 

Groups  M.  S.  F.  St. 

Wash  the  squash,  cut  into  large  pieces,  remove  the 
seeds,  and  bake  in  the  oven  with  a  little  butter  on 
each  piece,  until  tender.  Scrape  from  the  shell,  mash 
like  potatoes  with  butter,  cream  or  milk,  and  seasoning. 
Reheat,  and  serve  garnished  with  parsley. 


198  NATURE  CURE  COOK  BOOK 

651.  Squash  a  la  Mode 

Groups  M.  a— St.  P.  F. 

Cut  squash  in  thick  slices;  remove  the  outer  skin 
and  pitted  inside;  slice  in  two-inch  pieces;  butter  a 
deep  baking-dish;  arrange  a  layer  of  squash,  dust 
with  salt;  sprinkle  with  minced  onions,  then  one  layer 
of  carrots  sliced  thin ;  sprinkle  with  chopped  parsley ; 
Tepeat  with  alternate  layers  until  the  dish  is  filled; 
then  cover  with  well-seasoned  vegetable  stock;  bake 
in  a  moderate  oven ;  serve  with  brown  sauce. 

552.  Baked  Pumpkin 

Groups  M.  S.  F.— St.  P. 

Boil  or  steam  pumpkin,  pared  and  cut  into  pieces, 
then  mash  through  a  colander,  removing  the  tough 
fibers.  Beat  2  eggs  very  light,  add  3  tablespoons  milk 
or  cream,  1  tablespoon  melted  butter,  1  teaspoon  sugar, 
and  a  little  salt,  lastly  stirring  in  the  pumpkin.  Beat 
well  together,  put  into  a  buttered  baking-dish,  cover 
with  bread  crumbs,  dot  with  butter,  and  bake  in  a 
quick  oven  about  twenty  minutes. 

Note : — Squash  may  be  prepared  in  the  same  manner. 

553.  Pumpkin  Baked  in  the  Shell 

Groups  M.  S.  F.— St.  P. 

Wash  the  pumpkin,  cut  or  break  into  large  pieces, 
removing  seeds  and  tough  fibers.  Place  shell  down- 
ward in  a  large  pan  and  bake  until  tender,  basting 
frequently  with  equal  parts  melted  butter  and  lemon 
juice.     Serve,  garnished  with  sprigs  of  parsley. 


VEGETABLES  197 

TOMATOES 

Note: — Tomatoes  and  all  other  acid  fruits  or  vege- 
tables should  be  cooked  only  in  aluminum  or  porcelain- 
lined  vessels.  If  cooked  in  tin  pans,  poisonous  salts 
are  formed, 

554.  Baked  Tomatoes 

Groups  M.  F.  S.— St.  P. 

Cut  a  small  plug  from  the  blossom  end  of  nice  toma- 
toes of  uniform  size,  place  in  the  cavity  V2  teaspoon 
sugar,  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  hazelnut,  and  a 
cube  of  bread.  Bake  in  a  buttered  pan  in  a  slow 
oven  for  half  an  hour,  remove  from  the  pan  and  keep 
hot.  To  the  juice  left  in  the  pan  add  a  little  flour 
dissolved  in  water,  let  boil  up  a  few  times,  season  to 
taste,  and  pour  over  the  tomatoes.  Serve  garnished 
-with,  lettuce  hearts. 

555.  Broiled  Tomatoes 

Groups  M.  P. 

Slice  fresh  tomatoes,  without  removing  skin,  about 
half  an  inch  thick.  Place  on  a  toasting  iron  over  a 
clear  fire,  brown  on  both  sides,  put  on  a  heated  platter, 
sprinkle  lightly  with  salt,  and  put  a  small  piece  of 
butter  on  each  slice.  Let  stand  about  a  minute  before 
serving,  and  garnish  with  parsley  or  watercress. 

556.  Curry  of  Tomato 

Groups  M.  St.—F. 

Melt  2  tablespoons  butter,  add  1  tablespoon  minced 
onion,  1  tablespoon  green  sweet  pepper,  2  tablespoons 
celery,  chopped  fine.    Let  cook  slowly  fifteen  minutes. 


198  NATURE  CURE  COOK  BOOK 

Skin  4  tomatoes,  roll  in  flour,  and  cook  in  the  vegetable 
Bauce  about  ten  minutes,  then  remove  carefully  and 
place  on  squares  of  toast.  To  the  sauce  add  1  tea- 
spoon each  cornstarch  and  curry  powder,  rubbed  to  a 
smooth  paste  with  1/2  cup  cream.  Let  boil  up,  then 
pour  over  the  tomatoes  on  toast,  which  have  been  ar- 
ranged on  a  heated  platter. 

557.  Deviled  Tomatoes 

Groups  M.  F.  P.— St. 

Mash  the  yolks  of  2  hard-boiled  eggs;  add  to  them 
2  tablespoons  butter,  a  little  sugar,  salt,  dry  mustard, 
a  dash  of  cayenne,  1  grated  onion;  add  1  well-beaten 
egg  and  the  juice  of  1  lemon;  cook  until  smooth;  have 
fried  tomatoes  on  a  hot  dish  and  pour  the  sauce  over 
them;   serve  with  buttered  toast. 

558.  Escallcped  Tomatoes  (1) 

Groups  M.   St.  F.  P. 

Skin  and  slice  6  large,  ripe  tomatoes.  Put  a  layer 
into  a  buttered  baking-dish,  dust  lightly  with  sugar 
and  salt,  cover  with  bread  crumbs,  and  put  bits  of 
butter  on  top.  Add  another  layer  of  tomatoes,  then 
more  crumbs  and  so  on  until  the  dish  is  filled,  finishing 
with  crumbs.  Bake  slowly  for  thirty  minutes.  A 
few  minutes  before  removing  from  the  oven,  pour 
over  1  cup  whipped  cream.  Let  brown  quickly  and 
serve. 

559.  Escalloped  Tomatoes  (2) 

Groups  M.  St.  F.  P. 

Cover  the  bottom  of  a  buttered  bakrug-dish  with 
sliced  tomatoes;  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  salt,  then  a 


VEGETABLES  199 

layer  of  chopped  onion  and  green  pepper;  dot  with 
butter,  cover  with  bread  crumbs,  then  another  layer 
of  tomatoes,  and  so  on  nntil  the  dish  is  filled,  the  top 
layer  being  of  fine  bread  crumbs ;  cover  the  dish  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven  about  forty-five  minutes,  then 
remove  the  cover  and  brown  the  top. 

560.  Fried  Tomatoes 

Groups  M.  F.  St.— P. 

Wipe  large,  firm  tomatoes  and  cut  across  in  two  or 
three  slices  without  removing  skin;  dip  in  flour, 
sprinkle  with  salt  and  fry  in  butter;   serve  on  toast. 

561..  Fried  Tomatoes,  Breaded 

Groups  M.  St.  F.  P. 

Select  nice,  ripe  tomatoes,  cut  in  slices  one-fourth 
inch  thick,  dip  in  cracker  crumbs,  then  in  egg,  again 
in  cracker  crumbs,  season,  and  fry  a  nice  brown  in 
butter. 

562.  Macaroni  in  Tomato  Shells 

Groups  F.  Et.  M.  P.— S. 

Break  2  ounces  macaroni  into  short  lengths,  cook 
rapidly  in  boiling  water  about  twenty  minutes,  drain 
and  chop  fine.  Rub  the  yolks  of  2  hard-boiled  eggs 
to  a  paste,  add  gradually  5  tablespoons  cream.  Heat 
1  tablespoon  butter,  sift  in  1  tablespoon  flour,  stir  until 
perfectly  blended,  add  the  egg,  cream  and  I/2  cup 
milk,  stir  in  a  double  boiler  until  thick  and  creamy, 
then  add  1  teaspoon  salt  and  a  dash  of  paprika.  Pour 
this  sauce  over  the  chopped  macaroni,  and,  if  desired, 
add  2  tablespoons  grated  cheese. 


200  NATURE  CURE   COOK  BOOK 

Cut  plugs  from  the  stem  end  of  ripe,  firm  tomatoes, 
scoop  out  the  centers  carefully,  fill  with  the  prepared 
macaroni,  cover  with  fine  bread  crumbs,  and  bake 
twenty  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven.  Serve  on  toast 
with  the  remainder  of  the  sauce. 

563.  Sauted  Green  Tomatoes 

Groups  M.  P.  P.  St. 

Cut  smooth,  round,  green  tomatoes  into  thick  slices, 
sprinkle  with  salt  and  let  stand  about  two  hours.  Then 
wash  and  dry,  roll  in  egg  and  bread  crumbs,  then  saute 
in  butter.  Cover  and  let  them  cook  slowly,  bro^vning 
first  one  side,  then  the  other.  This  is  a  nice  dish  for 
late  summer. 

664.  Scrambled  Tomatoes 

Groups  M.  P.  P.— St. 

Peel  about  6  tomatoes,  chop  with  1  onion,  add  a  few 
stalks  of  celery  cut  fine,  2  tablespoons  bread  crumbs, 
and  the  same  amount  grated  cheese.  Season,  and,  if 
desired,  add  a  little  sugar.  Heat  butter  and  olive  oil 
in  equal  parts  (about  3  tablespoons),  add  the  vege- 
tables, let  cook  ten  minutes,  then  pour  over  2  well- 
beaten  eggs,  and  stir  rapidly  from  all  sides  until  the 
eggs  are  set.     Serve  on  toast. 

565.  Stewed  Tomatoes 

Groups  M.— F.  St. 

Peel  about  12  ripe  tomatoes  and  cut  into  pieces  (or 
use  canned  tomatoes),  put  into  a  stewpan  with  1  table- 
spoon butter,  cover  well,  and  let  cook  slowly  about 
thirty  minutes ;  then  season  to  taste.     "When  ready  to 


VEGETABLES  201 

serve,  add  1  cup  coarse  bread  crumbs  or  toasted  bread 
cut  into  dice. 

566.  Stuffed  Tomatoes  (1) 

Groups  M.  St.  F.— P. 

Cut  plugs  from  the  stem  ends  of  ripe  but  firm  toma- 
toes, remove  a  portion  of  the  pulp,  rub  through  a 
colander,  mix  with  bread  crumbs  and  chopped  parsley; 
season  to  taste.  Fill  the  tomato  shells,  sprinkle  with 
bread  crumbs ;  put  a  small  piece  of  butter  on  top,  place 
in  a  buttered  baking-dish,  and  bake  forty  minutes. 


567.  Stuffed  Tomatoes  (2) 

Groups  M.  P.— St.  F. 

Wash  and  dry  firm  tomatoes  of  uniform  size ;  scoop 
out  carefully,  beginning  at  the  stem  end.  Add  the 
pulp  to  1  cup  of  protose;  melt  y^  an  ounce  of  butter, 
add  1  chopped  onion,  1  tablespoon  flour,  a  little  chopped 
parsley,  and  seasoning  to  suit  taste.  Combine,  fill  the 
tomatoes,  put  them  in  a  buttered  baking-dish,  sprinkle 
thickly  with  brown  crumbs ;  bake  in  oven  until  tender 
but  not  broken.     Serve  on  toast. 


568.  Stuffed  Tomatoes,  Steamed 

Groups  M.  P.  F.  St. 

Cut  plugs  from  the  stem  ends  of  firm  tomatoes,  re- 
move the  greater  part  of  the  pulp,  being  careful  not 
to  break  the  skin.  Mix  the  pulp  with  savory  protose, 
chopped  nuts,  celery  and  onion.  Season,  add  chopped 
parsley,  a  little  lemon  juice,  and  sufficient  bread  crumbs 
to  make  a  rather  stiff  mixture;  fill  the  tomato  shells, 


202  NATURE  CURE  COOK  BOOK 

put  a  small  piece  of  butter  on  top  of  each  tomato,  re- 
place the  plug,  and  steam  twenty  minutes.  Serve  on 
a  heated  platter  garnished  with  slices  of  lemon. 

569.  Tomatoes  Stuffed  With  Mashed  Potatoes 

Groups  M.  St,  P.  F. 

Cut  a  slice  from  the  stem  ends  of  tomatoes,  and  re- 
move most  of  the  pulp.  To  1  cup  mashed  potatoes, 
add  the  well-beaten  white  of  1  egg,  1  tablespoon  cream, 
salt,  and  a  dash  of  red  pepper.  Mix  well  and  fill 
tomato  shells.  Sprinkle  a  little  finely  minced  parsley 
or  onion  on  top,  add  a  piece  of  butter,  and  bake  thirty 
minutes. 

570.  Tomatoes  Stuffed  With  Rice 

Groups  M.  St.  F.  P. 

Prepare  tomatoes  as  directed  in  the  above  recipe. 
To  each  cup  of  boiled  rice,  add  2  tablespoons  melted 
butter,  seasoning  to  taste,  %  teaspoon  onion  juice,  and 
a  few  chopped  olives.  Fill  the  shells,  add  1  teaspoon 
grated  cheese,  replace  the  tops,  and  bake  about  thirty 
minutes.  Place  the  tomatoes  on  a  heated  platter  and 
serve  with  plain  tomato  sauce,  made  from  the  pulp  and 
juice. 

571.  Tomato  Delicacy 

Groups  F.  P.  M.  St. 

Arrange  squares  of  toast  on  lettuce,  and  pour  over 
hot  tomato  sauce,  to  each  pint  of  which  has  been  added 
3  tablespoons  grated  cheese,  1  cup  English  walnuts, 
chopped  fine,  and  (after  the  cheese  has  been  melted) 
1  cup  whipped  cream. 


VEGETABLES  203' 

572.  Tomato  and  Eggs 

Groups  F.  P.  St.  M. 

Cut  tomatoes  into  thick  slices,  dip  in  flour,  dust  with 
salt,  fry  in  butter  on  both  sides ;  place  on  hot  buttered 
toast,  with  a  poached  egg  on  each  portion. 

573.  Tomato  Rarebit 

Groups  P.  F.  M.— St. 

Blend  until  smooth  2  tablespoons  each  melted  but- 
ter, flour,  1/^  teaspoon  salt,  %  teaspoon  mustard,  and  a 
pinch  of  cayenne  pepper.  Add  slowly  1  cup  cooked 
tomatoes,  strained,  to  which  has  been  added  %  tea- 
spoon baking  soda.  Let  boil  up,  remove  from  fire  and 
stir  into  this  mixture  2  beaten  eggs  and  2  cups  grated 
American  cheese.  Eeheat,  stirring  well  to  prevent 
burning.  Serve  on  hot  buttered  toast  with  crisp  celery 
stalks. 

574.  Tomatoes  and  Onions 

Groups  M.  F. 

Equal  parts  of  green  or  ripe  tomatoes  and  Spanish 
onions.  Cut  into  slices  or  dice,  stew  in  butter  or 
olive  oil  {V4,  cup  butter  to  6  tomatoes)  until  the  onions 
are  soft;   season  to  taste.     Serve  on  toast. 

575.  Tomatoes  and  Rice 

Groups  M.  St.  F.— -P. 

Line  a  well-buttered  baking-dish  with  boiled  rice; 
fill  the  center  with  ripe  tomatoes  peeled,  cut  in  pieces, 
and  seasoned,  and,  if  desired,  1  grated  onion.  Cover 
with  more  rice,  sprinkle  with  bread  crumbs,  dot  gener- 


204  NATURE   CURE   COOK   BOOK 

ously  with  butter,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for 
about  thirty  minutes. 

Note : — Alternate  layers  of  sliced  tomatoes  and  green 
peas,  separated  by  layers  of  rice,  make  an  attractive 
dish. 

5i6.  Tomatoes,  Carolina  Style 

Groups  M.  F.  P.— St.  S. 
Select  large  tomatoes,  not  too  ripe,  cut  a  thin  slice 
from  each  end,  then  into  three  or  four  large  slices.  (Do 
not  peel.)  Dust  with  salt,  dredge  lightly  with  flour, 
dip  into  beaten  egg  and  bread  cinimbs;  fry  slowly  in 
hot  butter,  browning  both  sides.  Lift  carefully  onto 
a  bed  of  hot  boiled  rice.  To  the  butter  left  in  the 
pan  add  2  tablespoons  flour,  rubbing  it  smooth,  then 
1  pint  hot  milk.  Stir  constantly  until  the  mixture 
boils,  season  to  taste,  pour  over  tomatoes  and  rice,  and 
serve  hot. 

577.  Tomatoes,  Southern  Style 

Groups  M.— F.  St. 
Heat  1  tablespoon  each  butter  and  olive  oil,  add  1 
onion  cut  into  small  dice,  let  stew  until  soft  and  yel- 
low; add  6  tomatoes  peeled  and  cut  into  pieces,  and 
1  cup  cleaned  rice.  Cover,  cook  over  a  slow  fire  until 
the  rice  is  soft,  stir  occasionally,  and  add  a  little  water 
if  necessary.  A  piece  of  green  pepper  may  be  cooked 
with  the  tomatoes  and  removed  before  serving.  Sea- 
son to  taste. 

578.  Tomatoes  a  la  Sanitarium  (Conchlglia) 

Groups  M.  F.  St.— P. 
Cut  tomatoes  in  halves,  put  in  an  earthen  baking- 
dish,  skin  side  down;   put  a  generous  piece  of  butter 


VEGETABLES  205 

on  each,  sprinkle  with  salt;  repeat  until  the  dish  is 
filled ;  bake  in  a  steady  oven  one  hour  until  they  are 
soft  and  brown.  Have  ready  hot  buttered  toast,  lift 
tomatoes  out  carefully  and  place  on  toast.  Pour  around 
them  a  rich,  creamy  sauce. 

579.  Tomato  Pudding 

Groups  M.  St.  F. 

Scald,  peel  and  slice  tomatoes,  squeeze  out  some  of 
the  juice,  chop  the  pulp.  To  6  tomatoes  add  2  cups 
bread  crumbs,  salt,  minced  onion,  green  peppers,  and 
melted  butter.  Turn  into  a  well-buttered  mold,  allow- 
ing room  for  the  pudding  to  swell.  Cover  closely, 
and  set  mold  in  boiling  water ;  boil  hard  for  one  hour. 
Turn  out  carefully  on  a  serving  dish,  surround  with 
a  sauce  made  of  the  juice  thickened  with  flour  blended 
with  butter,  and  seasoned  to  taste. 

580.  Vienna  Tomatoes 

Groups  M.  P.—P, 

Cut  each  tomato  required  in  half;  shape  protose  into 
round  cakes,  fry  in  butter  on  both  sides,  then  flatten 
out  a  little  to  make  them  same  size  as  tomatoes;  lay 
1  cake  on  each  half  tomato,  cover  with  other  half; 
bake  in  a  quick  oven  until  the  tomatoes  are  tender; 
decorate  with  parsley  and  serve  hot. 

TTJENIPS 

581.  Rutabagas  and  Apples 

Groups  S.  M.  P.— St. 

Pare  rutabagas,  wash,  cut  into  dice,  and  cook  in 
small  amount  of  water  until  tender;   mash,  and  mix 


206  NATURE    CURE    COOK   BOOK 

with  an  equal  quantity  of  apples  cooked  without  par- 
ing, then  rubbed  through  a  colander;  reheat,  add  but- 
ter and  salt,  and  serve  hot. 

582.  Baked  Turnips 

Groups  S.  M.  F.— St. 

Pare  turnips,  wash,  slice  thin,  cook  until  tender, 
drain.  In  a  buttered  baking-dish  put  alternate 
layers  of  turnips  and  bread  crumbs,  finishing  with 
crumbs.  Season  the  layers  with  salt  and  butter.  Add 
rich  milk,  cover,  bake  fifteen  minutes,  then  remove 
and  let  brown.  ' 

583.  Boiled  Turnips 

Groups  S.  M.  St.— F. 

Pare  turnips,  wash,  cut  into  strips,  add  cold  water 
to  barely  cover,  also  a  generous  piece  of  butter;  let 
cook  slowly  until  tender,  season  to  taste;  if  desired, 
add  a  little  sugar. 

584.  Creamed  Turnips 

Groups  S.  M.  F.— St. 

Cut  white  or  yellow  turnips  into  small  dice,  cook 
slowly  until  tender,  drain,  reheat,  then  pour  over  a 
good  white  sauce,  let  come  to  boiling,  and  serve  at 
once.     Grate  a  little  nutmeg  over  the  top. 

585.  Mashed  Turnips 

Groups  S.  M.  F.— St. 

Peel  and  wash  yellow  turnips,  cut  into  pieces,  cook 
until  tender.  Change  the  water  after  boiling  five  min- 
utes if  the  turnips  are  old  and  strong.     Drain,  mash 


VEGETABLES  207 

through  a  colander,  add  seasoning,  butter,  and  a  little 
cream.     Reheat  and  serve. 

586.  Turnip  Glace 

Groups  S.  M.  F.— St. 

Peel  and  cut  turnips  into  desired  pieces;  melt  but- 
ter in  a  stewpan,  add  the  turnips;  to  6  small  turnips 
add  1  cup  stock,  1  tablespoon  butter,  2  tablespoons 
sugar,  the  juice  of  1  lemon,  salt  and  a  little  parsley; 
pour  stock  around  turnips,  and  sprinkle  salt,  lemon 
juice  and  parsley  over  them ;  let  simmer  until  tender, 
then  remove  turnips  from  the  pan;  boil  the  gravy 
down  to  about  half,  pour  over  and  serve. 

587.  Ragout  of  Turnips 

Groups  S.  M.  St.  F. 

Boil  as  many  vrhite  turnips  as  needed;  put  into  a 
stewpan  with  butter  and  a  little  sugar;  stir  until  they 
are  nice  and  brown,  then  pour  over  them  1  pint  of 
seasoned  brown  gravy,  to  which  has  been  added  a 
few  chopped  onions  and  peppers,  also  a  few  bay  leaves. 
Stew  until  tender  and  serve  with  gravy  poured  around 
them. 

MIXED  VEGETABLES 

588.  Bark  Toy  Gun 

Groups  P.  F.  M. 

Wash  and  cut  in  pieces  1  pint  mushrooms,  1  dozen 
large  chestnuts,  1  box  sprouts,  1  stalk  celery,  1  onion; 
to  1  quart  boiling  water  add  1  cup  Chinese  sauce,  then 
add  the  vegetables,  and  boil  until  tender ;  then  beat  2 
eggs  with  a  little  cold  water  and  add  slowly  to  the 
boiling  vegetables;   season,  and  serve  hot,  with  rice. 


208  NATURE   CURE   COOK  BOOK 

589.  Curry  of  Vegetables 

Groups  M.  St.  F. 

Cut  into  dice  equal  quantities  of  cauliflower  and 
potatoes;  put  into  a  skillet  with  1  tablespoon  butter 
and  1  teaspoon  curry  powder.  Let  simmer  ten  minutes, 
add  1  grated  onion,  1  chopped  sweet  pepper,  and  1 
large  tomato  cut  into  pieces ;  cover  with  boiling  water 
and  let  cook  slowly  until  the  vegetables  are  tender. 
Thicken  with  flour  and  butter,  and  serve  hot. 

590.  Hungarian  Goulasch 

Groups  M.  St.  S.— F. 

Peel  and  cut  into  large  pieces  2  large  carrots,  1 
rutabaga,  3  potatoes;  add  6  medium-sized  onions,  let 
cook  until  nearly  tender,  then  add  6  tomatoes,  6  bay 
leaves,  1  green  pepper,  sliced,  and  2  large  apples,  peeled 
and  sliced.  Cook  until  tender,  add  good-sized  piece 
of  butter  and  thicken  with  browned  flour,  then  add  i/^ 
cup  brown  sugar  and  juice  of  2  lemons. 

591.  Leipziger  Allerlei 

Groups  M.  S.  P.  St.  F. 

Clean  and  cut  into  dice  equal  quantities  of  carrots, 
wax  beans,  green  peas,  asparagus,  new  potatoes,  and 
young  white  turnips.  Cook  until  tender  in  a  small 
quantity  of  salted  water,  season  to  taste,  add  1  cup 
cream;   thicken  with  flour  and  butter  blended. 

592.  Mexican  Pudding 

Groups  S.  St.  M.  F.— P. 

Line  a  well-buttered  baking-dish  with  sliced  sweet 
potatoes,  which  have  been  cooked  until  nearly  tender. 


VEGETABLES  209 

Into  this  put  1  quart  sweet  corn  cut  from  the  cob, 
mixed  with  1  green  sweet  pepper,  1  pimento,  chopped 
fine,  a  little  salt,  and  3  tablespoons  cream.  Cover  with 
slices  of  sweet  potato,  put  bits  of  butter  on  top,  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven  twenty  minutes.  Garnish 
with  pimentoes. 

593.  Sanitarium  Chop  Suey 

Groups  M.  P.  F.  St. 

Cut  into  dice  2  Spanish  onions  and  1  stalk  celery; 
let  browTi  lightly  in  4  tablespoons  melted  butter;  add  6 
tomatoes,  peeled  and  cut  into  pieces,  and  1  cup  water; 
let  simmer  thirty  minutes.  Add  1  cup  mushrooms  and 
1  can  savory  protose  cut  into  cubes.  Let  cook  ten 
minutes  longer,  season,  mix  with  hot  twenty-minute 
rice,  and  serve  at  once. 

594.  Chop  Suey  (2) 

Groups  M.  P.  St. 

Cut  6  onions  and  6  stalks  celery  in  long  strips  and 
let  brown  in  butter  fifteen  minutes;  put  on  to  cook 
with  enough  water  to  cover;  add  1  can  protose  cut  in 
strips,  12  mushrooms,  1  pint  bamboo  shoots  and  1  pint 
Chinese  potatoes,  cut  in  thin  strips;  season  to  taste. 
Serve  with  rice.     Add  Chinese  sauce  (Soy)  if  desired, 

595.  Vegetable  Goulasch 

Groups  M.  P.  S.— F. 

Clean,  peel,  and  cut  into  dice  1  quart  tomatoes,  3 
large  carrots,  4  onions,  1  stalk  celery,  1  large  apple; 
add  1  cup  water,  1  cup  green  peas,  1  slice  lemon,  i/^ 
cup  lemon  juice,  2  tablespoons  sugar  and  butter;  cook 
slowly  about  fifteen  minutes;    add  1  can  savory  pro* 


210  NATURE    CURE    COOK   BOOK 

tose,  cut  into  small  pieces,  salt  and  paprika  to  taste; 
add  more  water  if  necessary,  and  let  simmer  until  vege- 
tables are  tender.     Serve  in  a  border  of  hot  rice. 

596.  Vegetable  Patties 

Groups  M.  S.— P.  F.  St. 

Cook  equal  amounts  of  young  green  peas,  tender 
beans,  cauliflower,  carrots,  parsnips,  and  cabbage  in  a 
very  little  water  (only  enough  to  prevent  burning), 
about  fifteen  minutes;    then  drain,  chop  fine  and  add 

1  grated  onion,  and  enough  bread  crumbs  to  hold  the 
mixture  together.  Fry  large  spoonfuls  in  equal  parts 
butter  and  olive  oil. 

597.  Vegetable  Pottage 

Groups  S.  M.  P.  St.  F. 

Mix  1  cup  each  of  cooked  green  peas,  string  beans, 
sweet  corn  cut  from  the  cob,  fresh  lima  beans,  raw 
tomatoes  cut  into  pieces,  and  1  chopped  onion.     Heat 

2  cups  milk  with  3  tablespoons  olive  oil;  add  salt, 
chopped  parsley,  and  a  dash  of  nutmeg.  Mash  2  large, 
freshly  cooked  potatoes,  beat  smooth,  and  add  to  the 
mixed  vegetables.  Put  into  a  buttered  baking-dish, 
cover  with  bread  crumbs,  and  bake  thirty  minutes  in 
a  slow  oven. 

598.  Vegetable  Stew 

Groups  M.  S.  St.— F.  P. 

Clean  and  cut  into  large  dice  1  turnip,  2  carrots,  2 
parsnips,  2  German  celery  roots,  1  Spanish  onion,  2 
potatoes.  Barely  cover  with  cold  water,  let  cook 
slowly  until  all  the  vegetables  are  tender ;  season,  add 
a  generous  piece  of  butter,  and  serve. 


VEGETABLES  211 

599.  Virgfinia  Patties 

Groups  M.  F.  P.  St. 

Chop  2  apples  and  1  small  onion  fine,  add  1  egg",  i^ 
cup  bread  crumbs,  and  seasoning".  Mix  well,  form  into 
patties,  and  ivy  a  golden  brown  in  butter  or  oil. 


DESSERTS 

600.  Almond  Custard 

Groups  P.  F.— St.  S. 

Heat  1  quart  milk  in  a  double  boiler.  When  boiling, 
add  2  tablespoons  cornstarch  dissolved  in  a  little  cold 
milk,  and  stir  until  it  thickens;  pour  into  the  yolks 
of  4  eggs,  well-beaten  with  2  tablespoons  sugar.  Re- 
turn to  the  double  boiler,  cook  with  constant  stirring 
until  thick  and  smooth;  take  from  fire,  add  y^  cup 
blanched  and  chopped  almonds,  then  fold  in  the  well- 
beaten  whites  of  the  eggs.  Serve  very  cold,  with  grape 
sauce,  or  any  other  fruit  sauce. 

Note: — The  milk  should  be  poured  into  the  eggs,  not 
the  eggs  added  to  the  boiling  milk,  in  order  to  prevent 
curdling. 

601.  Almond  Pudding 

Groups  F.  P.  S. 
%  of  a  pound  each  of  sifted  sugar  and  ground 
almonds,  beaten  with  the  yolks  of  4  eggs  and  the 
whites  of  2  eggs  for  about  thirty  minutes,  then  bake 
in  a  slow  oven.  Beat  the  other  2  whites  with  pow- 
dered sugar  to  a  stiff  froth,  spread  over  the  top  of  the 
pudding,  and  let  brown. 

602.  Almond  Cream  Pudding 

Groups  P.  S.  F. 
Stir  over  the  fire  1  pint  milk,  3  tablespoons  sugar, 
and  1  cup  blanched  and  chopped  almonds;    add  the 

212 


DESSEKTS  213 

well-beaten  yolks  of  4  eggs;  flavor  with  extract  of 
rose;  pour  into  a  dish  and  pile  on  a  ring  made  of  the 
whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  with  %  cup  sugar. 


603.  Ambrosia 

Groups  F.  M.  P.— S. 

Slice  finely  flavored  oranges,  sprinkle  thickly  with 
shredded  fresh  cocoanut  and  powdered  sugar. 

604.  Apples  With  Almonds 

Groups  M.  S.  P.  F. 

Make  a  syrup  by  boiling  for  ten  minutes  2  cups  sugar 
with  IV2  cups  water;  pare  and  remove  the  blossom 
ends  from  apples,  leaving  the  stems  on;  drop  apples 
into  the  syrup  and  cook  gently  until  they  may  be 
pierced  with  a  fork,  then  lift  from  the  syrup  and  stick 
as  many  blanched  almonds  as  desired  into  each  apple; 
place  in  oven  a  few  minutes  and  slightly  brown  the 
ends,  then  remove  to  a  serving  dish  and  pour  the  syrup 
around  them.     Serve  with  whipped  cream. 

605.  Apples  in  Bloom 

Groups  M.  S. 

Cut  red  apples  of  uniform  size  in  half,  but  do  not 
pare  them.  Cook  until  soft,  2  or  3  at  a  time,  in  a  syi'up 
made  from  %  pound  sugar  and  1  cup  water.  Place  the 
apples  on  a  shallow  dish.  When  cool,  remove  the  skin 
carefully  from  the  pink  portion  below.  Boil  the  syrup 
to  a  soft  jelly  and  pour  over  the  apples. 


214  NATURE   CURE  COOK  BOOK 

606.  Apple  Custard 

Groups  M.  P.  r.— S. 

Line  a  well-buttered  two-quart  baking  dish  with  cake 
crumbs;  fill  about  half  full  with  apples  stewed  with  a 
little  lemon  peel  and  sweetened  to  taste;  pour  over  1 
quart  milk  into  which  2  eggs  have  been  beaten,  dot 
with  small  pieces  of  butter,  and  bake  thirty  minutes. 

607.  Apple  Dessert  (1) 

Groups  M.  S.— F. 

Fill  a  quart  bowl  with  alternate  layers  of  thinly  sliced 
apples  and  sugar;  add  I/2  cup  water;  cover  and  put  a 
weight  on,  and  bake  slowly  for  two  hours.  Serve  cold 
with  whipped  cream. 

608.  Apple  Dessert  (2) 

Groups  M.  P.  F. 

Pare  6  apples,  then  grate  them;  beat  the  yolks  of  3 
eggs,  then  the  whites,  separately ;  mix  with  the  apples ; 
add  sugar  and  vanilla  to  taste ;  put  into  a  granite  bak- 
ing dish  and  bake  one  hour,  slowly.  Serve  with  soft 
custard. 

609.  Apple  Froth 

Groups  M.  P.  S.— r. 

Core  6  nice  apples;  put  a  little  sugar  and  a  small 
piece  of  butter  in  each  cavity ;  bake  or  steam  until  ten- 
der ;  remove  the  skin,  beat  the  pulp  until  creamy,  then 
fold  in  the  whites  of  3  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth  -with 
3  tablespoons  powdered  sugar.  Serve  with  soft  cus- 
tard. 


DESSERTS  215 

610.  Apple  Puff 

Groups  M.  P.  S.  F. — St. 

Peel  and  grate  apples  to  make  2  cups;  stir  into  the 
beaten  whites  of  4  eggs,  add  sugar  to  taste,  and  the 
juice  of  1  lemon.  Bake  twenty  minutes  in  a  buttered 
pudding  dish.  Serve  at  once  with  a  custard  made  as 
follows : 

Heat  1  quart  milk  in  a  double  boiler,  add  2  table- 
spoons cornstarch  dissolved  in  a  little  cold  milk;  let 
boil  until  cornstarch  is  cooked,  then  remove  from  the 
fire,  add  the  yolks  of  4  eggs  and  1/2  cup  sugar;  flavor 
with  vanilla,  if  desired ;  beat  until  creamy. 


611.  Apple  Pudding 

Groups  M.  S.  P.  F. — St. 

Peel  and  core  6  to  8  nice  apples  of  uniform  size ;  put 
a  spoonful  of  honey  in  each,  set  on  end  in  a  buttered 
baking  dish,  and  cover  with  a  batter  made  as  follows : 

To  1  quart  milk  add  a  pinch  of  salt,  3  eggs  and  3 
tablespoons  whole  wheat  flour;  mix  thoroughly,  pour 
over  the  apples,  and  bake  about  one  and  one-half  hours. 
Serve  with  sweetened  cream. 


612.  Apple  Sauce 

Groups  M.  S. — ^P.  r. 

Pare  and  quarter  tart  apples,  remove  cores  and  all 
decayed  portions;  place  in  an  aluminum  or  porcelain 
kettle  with  enough  water  to  barely  cover,  and  cook 
slowly  until  tender.    Strain  through  a  colander,  sweeten 


216  NATURE  CUBE  COOK  BOOK 

to  taste  with  honey  or  brown  sugar.    "WTien  readj  to 
serve  sprinkle  with  almonds,  chopped  fine. 

Note: — A  rose  geranium  leaf  laid  in  the  bottom  of 
the  dish  into  which  the  hot  sauce  is  poured  imparts  a 
distinctive  flavor. 

613.  Apple  Snow 

Groups  M.  S.  P. 

Add  2  tablespoons  powdered  sugar  to  1  cup  thick 
apple  sauce ;  fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  4  eggs, 
and  serve  in  tall  glasses.    Decorate  with  rose  leaves. 

614.  Apple  Souffle 

Groups  M.  S.— P.  r. 

Peel  and  core  apples,  cook  until  tender,  then  rub 
through  a  colander;  add  sugar  and  nutmeg  to  taste; 
place  in  a  porcelain  kettle  and  cook  until  most  of  the 
water  has  evaporated,  being  careful  to  prevent  burn- 
ing. To  2  cups  of  this  apple  puree  add  the  whites  of  4 
eggs,  beaten  very  stiff  and  sweetened  with  3  table- 
spoons sugar;  mix  lightly,  fill  a  pudding  dish,  sprinkle 
with  equal  parts  ground  nuts  and  sugar.  Bake  in  a 
slow  oven  about  twenty  minutes.  Serve  with  whipped 
cream. 

615.  Apple  Tapioca 

Groups  M.  St. — S.  T. 

Pare  and  quarter  6  medium-sized  tart  apples,  remove 
cores;  arrange  the  apples  in  a  buttered  baking  dish, 
sprinkle  with  sugar  and  a  little  cinnamon,  cover  with 
tapioca  which  has  been  soaking  in  cold  water  or  milk; 
bake  from  forty-five  minutes  to  one  hour  in  a  fairly 
hot  oven.    Serve  with  cream. 


DESSERTS  217 

616.  Maple  Apples 
Groups  M.  S.  F.  P. 

Pare  and  core  tart  apples,  let  simmer  in  a  symp 
made  from  equal  parts  maple  sugar  and  water,  until 
nearly  tender,  turning  the  apples  often  to  avoid  break- 
ing. Put  them  into  an  enameled  baking  pan,  cover 
with  chopped  almonds,  dredge  with  grated  maple 
sugar,  and  brown.    Serve  warm  with  whipped  cream. 

617.  Nut  and  Apple  Tapioca 

Groups  F.  P.  3VL— St.  S. 

Soak  1  cup  tapioca  in  3^  cups  water  over  night; 
in  the  morning  add  1  cup  sugar,  a  pinch  of  salt,  1  cup 
hickory  nuts,  and  1  cup  diced  apples.  Cook  in  a  double 
boiler  for  one  hour.    Serve  with  cream. 

618.  Rice  and  Apples 

Groups  St.  3VL  F.— S. 

Steam  1  cup  rice  in  1  quart  milk;  add  2  tablespoons 
butter  and  a  little  salt;  when  tender,  spread  a  layer 
of  rice  in  a  buttered  baking  dish,  cover  with  apple 
sauce,  then  another  layer  of  rice,  and  so  on  until  the 
dish  is  filled;  let  bake  in  a  slow  oven.  Serve  with 
cream.    Any  other  fruit  may  be  substituted. 

619.  Simple  Bread  and  Apple  Pudding 

Groups  St.  M.  F.  P.  S. 

Spread  butter  on  slices  of  stale  bread;  put  a  layer 
in  a  buttered  baking  dish,  cover  with  a  layer  of  sliced 
tart  apples,  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  a  little  cinnamon; 
add  another  layer  of  bread  and  sliced  apples,  and  so 


218  NATURE   CURE   COOK  BOOK 

on,  until  the  dish  is  filled,  finishing  with  a  layer  of 
apples.  Pour  over  1  or  2  cups  water,  according  to  size 
of  pudding,  and  bake  thirty  minutes  in  a  hot  oven. 
Serve  with  cream  sauce. 

Note : — The  apple  parings,  washed  and  drained,  may 
be  put  on  top  of  the  pudding  to  keep  it  from  being 
scorched. 

620.  Steamed  Apples 

Groups  M.  F.  S.  P. 

Peel  and  core  apples,  steam  until  tender,  sprinkle 
with  pulverized  sugar  and  set  aside  to  cool.  "When 
ready  to  serve,  fill  with  equal  parts  chopped  walnuts 
and  dates,  and  cover  with  whipped  cream. 

621.  Steamed  Apple  Pudding 

Groups  St.  M.  P.  F.  S. 

Fill  a  buttered  quart  mold  with  alternate  layers  of 
sliced  and  buttered  whole  wheat  bread  and  good,  tart 
apples,  sliced  thin  and  sprinkled  with  cinnamon,  finish- 
ing with  apples.  Melt  1  cup  sugar  in  1  cup  hot  water, 
pour  over  the  pudding,  cover,  and  steam  for  about  two 
hours.    Serve  hot  with  hard  sauce. 

Note: — Peaches,  cherries  or  berries  may  be  substi- 
tuted for  apples. 

622.  Washington  Baked  Apples 

Groups  M.  F.  P.  S. 

Peel  and  core  nice  large  apples,  fill  the  cavity  with 
chopped  nuts  and  raisins,  put  a  small  piece  of  butter 
on  top,  and  bake  about  thirty  minutes.  Sei-ve  hot  with 
cream. 


DESSERTS  219 

623.  Old  Fashioned  Apple  Pudding 

Groups  M.  St.  P.  P.  S. 
Place  a  layer  of  sliced  tart  apples  in  a  buttered  bak- 
ing dish;  add  seeded  raisins,  sprinkle  thickly  with 
sugar  and  chopped  English  walnuts,  and  flavor  with 
grated  nutmeg" ;  cover  with  a  layer  of  bread  crumbs, 
dotting  with  bits  of  butter  and  a  little  salt.  Repeat 
the  alternate  laj'-ers  until  the  dish  is  filled,  having  a 
thin  layer  of  sugar  on  top.  Pour  in  hot  v/ater  to  one- 
fourth  the  height  of  the  dish,  and  bake  until  pudding 
is  a  delicate  brown. 

624.  Black  Betty 

Groups  M.  St.  S.  P.  P. 
Put  1  tablespoon  butter  into  a  fairly  deep  baking 
dish  holding  two  quarts,  then  fill  the  dish  with  alter- 
nate layers  of  whole  wheat  toast,  sliced  tart  apples, 
and  currants  or  chopped  raisins.  Sprinkle  each  layer 
of  apples  with  sugar,  powdered  cinnamon  and  nutmeg, 
and  a  little  grated  lemon  rind.  Finish  with  a  layer  of 
toast,  dotted  with  bits  of  butter.  Pour  over  this  1  pint 
milk  into  which  2  eggs  have  been  beaten,  and  bake 
about  forty-five  minutes.    Serve  with  cream  and  sugar. 

625.  Bread  Custard  with  Jam 

Groups  St.  P.  S.  P.— M. 
About  half  fill  a  well-buttered  baking  dish  with 
coarse  whole  wheat  bread  crumbs,  cover  with  bits  of 
butter  (about  1  tablespoon  in  all),  pour  over  1  quart 
of  milk  beaten  with  the  yolks  of  3  eggs,  1  cup  sugar, 
and  the  grated  rind  of  1  lemon.  Bake  slowly  about 
one  hour,  then  covsr  with  a  layer  of  jam;  spread  over 
the  jaiP  11.  e  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth 


220  NATURE  CURE  COOK  BOOK 

with  2  tablespoons  powdered  sugar.    Put  back  into  the 
oven  to  brown. 

Note : — If  the  jam  is  very  sweet,  stir  into  it  the  juice 
of  a  lemon. 

626.  Brown  Betty  (1) 

Groups  M.  St.— S.  F. 

Peel,  core  and  chop  enough  tart  apples  to  make  1 
pint.  Butter  a  baking  dish,  sprinkle  the  bottom  and 
sides  with  sifted  bread  crumbs,  then  fill  with  alternate 
layers  of  the  chopped  apples  and  whole  wheat  bread 
crumbs,  using  about  1  large  cup  crumbs,  having  crumbs 
on  top.  Sprinkle  each  layer  of  apples  with  sugar  and 
a  little  ground  cinnamon,  and  put  bits  of  butter  over 
each  layer  of  crumbs.  Pour  over  1  cup  water,  cover, 
and  bake  three-quarters  of  an  hour,  then  remove  the 
cover  and  brown.    Serve  hot  with  cream  or  hard  sauce. 

627.  Brown  Betty  Pudding  (2) 

Groups  M.  St.  S.  F.  P. 

Add  y2  cup  brown  sugar,  a  little  cinnamon  and  nut- 
meg, and  the  grated  rind  of  1  lemon  to  2  cups  chopped 
apples;  put  alternate  layers  of  apples  and  buttered 
bread  crumbs  (using  2  tablespoons  melted  butter)  until 
the  dish  is  filled ;  pour  I/4  cup  water  and  the  juice  of  1 
lemon  over  the  top,  and  bake  forty  to  fifty  minutes. 

628.  Baked  Bananas 

Groups  S.  St.  M. 

Select  large  bananas,  wash,  wipe  dry,  remove  one 
section  of  the  skin,  and  loosen  the  remainder  all  around 
without  breaking  the  skin.     Put  in  a  shallow  baking 


DESSERTS  221 

pan,  sprinkle  each  banana  with  1  teaspoon  sugar  and  a 
little  lemon  juice.  Bake  quickly  until  tender,  let  cool, 
and  serve.  Each  skin  will  be  filled  with  a  rich  syrup 
which  will  thicken  to  jelly  in  cooling. 

Another  way  of  serving  is  to  remove  the  bananas 
from  the  skin,  arrange  them  on  crisp  lettuce  leaves, 
and  cover  with  the  juice,  well  chilled. 

629.  Baked  Indian  Pudding 

Groups  S.  St.  F.  P.  M. 

Bring  a  quart  of  milk  to  the  boiling  point,  then 
sprinkle  in  1%  cups  of  yellow  corn  meal;  stir  con- 
stantly, and  when  this  is  thickened  and  cooled,  add  % 
cup  of  molasses,  %  teaspoon  salt  and  2  of  ginger;  beat 
until  smooth.  Butter  a  pudding  dish,  pour  in  the  bat- 
ter and  add  1  quart  cold  milk ;  bake  in  a  very  slow  oven 
three  to  four  hours.    Serve  with  hard  sauce  or  cream. 

630.  Berry  Brick 

Groups  M.  St.  S.  F.— P. 

Fill  a  dish  alternately  with  slices  of  cake  and  layers 
of  ripe  and  crushed  berries,  sweetened  to  taste.  The 
cake  will  absorb  the  juice.  Chill  thoroughly  before 
serving;  cut  into  slices  like  brick  ice  cream.  Serve 
with  lemon  sauce  or  cream  and  sugar. 

Note : — Buttered  slices  of  whole  wheat  bread  may  be 
substituted  for  the  cake,  and  cherries,  peaches,  etc., 
for  the  berries. 

631.  "Nature  Cure"  Blanc  Mange 

Groups  F.  S.  P.  M.— 8t. 

Let  milk  clabber  quickly  by  keeping  in  a  warm  place, 
then  chill  thoroughly  and  eat  with  brown  sugar  and 


222  NATURE   CURE    COOK  BOOK 

cream.     If  desired,  sprinkle  with  grated  whole  wheat 
bread. 

632.  Blanc  Mange,  with  Chocolate  Sauce 

Groups  S.  St.  M.  P.  F. 

Dissolve  4  tablespoons  com  starch  in  %  cup  milk; 
put  3  cups  milk  in  a  double  boiler ;  add  sugar  to  taste, 
a  little  salt,  and  2  sticks  cinnamon;  heat  to  the  boiling 
point,  add  the  dissolved  com  starch,  stir  constantly 
and  boil  four  minutes ;  add  1  teaspoon  vanilla  and  pour 
into  molds  which  have  been  dipped  in  cold  water ;  when 
cold,  turn  out  and  pour  around  them  a  sauce  made  as 
follows : 

Mix  1  teaspoon  corn  starch  with  1/2  cup  sugar;  pour 
over  this  1  cup  boiling  water,  add  y^  cup  grated  choco- 
late, let  boil  a  few  minutes,  and  flavor  with  vanilla. 

633.  Bread  Pudding 

Groups  S.  F.  St.  P.  M. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  4  eggs  until  light.  Add  the  grated 
rind  of  1  lemon  and  2  tablespoons  sugar.  Mix  1  quart 
of  milk  with  1  pint  of  fine  bread  crumbs,  and  add  the 
egg  mixture.  Turn  into  a  buttered  baking  dish  and 
bake  until  firm,  bnt  not  watery.  Cover  with  meringue 
made  of  the  whites  of  2  eggs  and  4  tablespoons  pow- 
dered sugar.    Brown  in  oven. 

634.  Steamed  Bread  Pudding 

Groups  S.  St.  P.  M.  F. 

Into  1  quart  of  bread  crumbs  stir  1  cup  milk,  boiling 
hot,  1  cup  molasses,  and  1  cup  chopped  raisins,  dates, 
or  figs.    Add  1  tablespoon  butter,  a  little  spice,  about  1 


DESSERTS  223 

cup  whole  wheat  flour,  and  a  pinch  of  baking  soda  dis- 
solved in  a  little  hot  water.  Mix  the  ingredients  well, 
then  put  in  molds  and  boil  or  steam  three  hours.  Serve 
hot  with  hard  sauce. 

635.  Brown  Bread  Pudding 

Groups  S.  St.  P.  F.— M. 

Spread  4  or  5  slices  of  stale  whole  wheat  bread  with 
butter,  place  in  a  shallow  pan,  pour  over  enough  cold 
water  to  cover  well  and  let  soak  about  five  minutes. 
In  the  meantime  break  1  egg"  into  a  baking  dish,  beat 
it  well,  add  i/^  cup  each  of  brown  sugar  and  corn  syrup, 
and  Ys  teaspoon  each  of  powdered  allspice,  nutmeg, 
and  cinnamon.  Into  this  mixture  crumble  the  soaked 
bread,  first  pressing  out  part  of  the  water.  Mix  well 
and  bake  about  one  hour,  then  cover  with  whites  of 
eggs  beaten  with  powdered  sugar  until  stiff,  and  put 
the  pudding  back  into  the  oven  to  brown  the  top.  Serve 
with  apple  sauce. 

636.  Bread  and  Prune  Pudding 

Groups  St.  M.  F.  P.  S. 

Follow  directions  for  recipe  No.  619,  substituting  for 
the  apples,  prunes  that  have  been  soaked  over  night, 
stoned,  and  cut  in  half. 

637.  Graham  Bread  Pudding 

Groups  St.  S.  F.  P.  M. 

Cut  dry  graham  bread  in  slices,  remove  the  crust  and 
cover  with  milk ;  let  soak  until  soft ;  to  1  loaf  of  bread 
add  1  cup  butter,  a  little  sugar,  1  cup  raisins,  and  1  cup 
currants ;  steam  or  bake,  and  serve  with  hard  or  vanilla 
sauce. 


224  NATURE   CURE   COOK   BOOK 

638.  Caramel  Custard 

Groups  F.  P.  S.— M. 

Pour  1  quart  of  boiling  milk  over  1  cup  granulated 
sugar,  which  has  been  browned  in  the  oven ;  stir  until 
all  the  sugar  is  dissolved.  When  cool,  add  the  yolks 
of  6  eggs  and  1  teaspoon  vanilla  extract.  Set  the  dish 
in  a  pan  of  water  and  bake  until  the  custard  is  set. 
Spread  over  the  top  the  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  to  a 
stiff  froth  with  2  tablespoons  powdered  sugar,  and  put 
back  into  the  oven  to  brown. 


639.  Carrot  Pudding 

Groups  F.  P.  M.  S.— St. 

Cream  together  ^  cup  butter  and  1  cup  brown 
sugar;  add  2  well-beaten  eggs,  2  cups  grated  carrots, 
1  cup  raisins,  1  cup  currants,  1  cup  bread  crumbs,  1 
teaspoon  baking  powder,  mixed  spices  to  taste,  and 
salt;  turn  into  a  buttered  mold  and  steam  for  three 
hours.    Serve  with  any  preferred  pudding  sauce. 


640.  Cheese  Cake  Custard 

Groups  P.  F.  S. — M. 

Put  2  cups  of  cottage  cheese  through  a  colander; 
beat  4  eggs  and  stir  into  the  cheese ;  add  %  cup  sugar, 
the  cheese  mixture,  grated  rind  of  1  lemon,  1  table- 
spoon melted  butter,  and  a  little  vanilla;  beat  until 
smooth ;  line  a  deep  pie  dish  with  pastry,  fill  with  mix* 
ture,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  twenty  minutes.  Spread 
whipped  cream  on  top. 


DESSERTS  225 

641.  Cherry  Pudding 

Groups  M.  St.  S.— F.  P. 

Stew  stoned  cherries  and  sweeten  to  taste.  Butter 
slices  of  stale  bread  with  crust  removed.  Put  a  layer 
of  bread  into  the  dish  from  which  the  pudding  is  to 
be  served,  pour  over  some  of  the  hot  fruit.  Repeat 
until  the  dish  is  filled.  When  cold,  cover  with  a  layer 
of  whipped  cream  and  garnish  with  ripe  cherries. 

Note: — Berries,  rhubarb,  and  other  fresh  or  dried 
fruits  may  be  served  in  this  way. 

642.  Boiled  Chocolate  Custard 

Groups  F.  P.  St.  S.— M. 

Heat  1  pint  of  milk.  When  nearly  boiling,  add  1^ 
cups  grated  toast,  and  %  cup  grated  chocolate.  Cook 
slowly,  with  constant  stirring,  until  the  mixture  is 
fairly  stiff;  remove  from  the  fire,  add  the  yolks  of  6 
eggs  beaten  until  light  and  foamy  with  6  teaspoons  of 
sugar.  When  cool,  add  the  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs, 
and  cook  in  a  double  boiler  about  thirty  minutes.  Serve 
with  whipped  cream. 

643  Chocolate  Pudding  (1) 

Groups  S.  F.  St.— P.  M. 

Let  1  quart  of  milk  come  to  the  boiling  point ;  add  1 
cup  sugar,  %  cup  grated  chocolate,  and  I/2  cup  corn 
starch  dissolved  in  a  little  water.  Cook  until  it 
thickens,  stirring  constantly;  add  1  tablespoon  butter 
and  mold  in  small  cups,  dipped  in  cold  water.  Serve 
with  sweet  cream. 


226  NATURE   CURE   COOK  BOOK 

644.  Chocolate  Pudding  (2) 

Groups  St.  S.  F.  P.— M. 

Mix  well  together  1  pint  bread  crumbs  and  6  table- 
spoons grated  chocolate;  add  to  1  pint  boiling  milk, 
stir  a  few  minutes,  then  take  from  the  fire  and  add  the 
beaten  yolks  of  3  eggs  and  4  tablespoons  brown  sugar. 
Bake  in  a  buttered  pudding  dish  about  fifteen  minutes, 
then  cover  with  the  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff 
froth  with  3  tablespoons  powdered  sugar,  and  let 
brown.    Serve  cold  with  vanilla  sauce. 

645.  Steamed  Chocolate  Pudding  (1) 

Groups  F.  P.  S.— St.  M. 

Rub  y^  pound  of  cocoa  or  grated  chocolate  to  a 
smooth  paste  with  hot  water,  then  add  1  pint  hot  milk 
and  let  cook  gently  for  ten  minutes ;  add  1  tablespoon 
butter  and  sugar  to  taste.  When  cold,  stir  into  this 
mixture  first  the  beaten  yolks  of  2  eggs,  then  the  whites 
beaten  to  a  froth.  Put  into  a  mold,  buttered  and 
sprinkled  with  sifted  bread  crumbs;  cover,  and  steam 
about  one  hour. 

646.  Steamed  Chocolate  Pudding  (2) 

Groups  F.  P.— St.  S.  M. 

Melt  about  6  ounces  of  chocolate,  scraped  very  fine, 
with  3  lumps  of  sugar;  add  2  tablespoons  flour  and  1 
small  cup  milk.  Stir  until  free  from  lumps,  then  add 
the  yolks  of  4  eggs,  one  by  one ;  beat  thoroughly,  and 
pour  this  mixture  into  the  whites  of  the  eggs  which 
have  been  whipped  to  a  stiff  froth.  Steam  in  a  but- 
tered mold,  securely  closed,  from  thirty  to  forty  min- 
utes. 


DESSERTS  227 

647.  Christmas  Pudding,  Boston  Style 

Groups  F.  P.  M.  St.— S. 

To  2  eggs,  well-beaten,  add  2  cups  Boston  brown 
bread  broken  into  crumbs,  2  tablespoons  melted  butter, 
1  quart  milk,  a  little  salt,  and  lastly,  chopped  raisins, 
currants,  citron,  figs  and  almonds  to  make  1  cup.  Bake 
in  a  buttered  pan  until  firm  in  the  center;  invert  on  a 
platter,  and  serve  garnished  with  candied  lemon  peel, 
candied  cherries,  and  blanched  almonds. 

648.  Cocoanut  Dessert 

Groups  F.  P.  M.  S. 

Chop  or  grind  fresh  cocoanut  and  raisins,  two  parts 
to  one;  serve  with  the  milk  of  the  cocoanut. 


649.  Cocoanut  Pudding 

Groups  F.  P.  S.  M.— St. 

Mix  %  cup  grated  cocoanut  and  i/^  cup  bread  or  cake 
crumbs;  add  3  eggs,  1  pint  milk,  %  cup  sugar,  butter 
the  size  of  a  walnut,  and  a  little  almond  extract.  Beat 
well,  and  bake  in  a  buttered  pudding  form  about  forty- 
five  minutes.  Cover  with  white  of  egg,  beaten  to  a  stiff 
froth  \vith  powdered  sugar,  and  sprinkled  liberally 
with  shredded  cocoanut ;  let  brown  in  the  oven.  When 
serving,  put  a  spoonful  of  grape  jelly  on  each  portion. 

650.  Cocoanut  Souffle 

Groups  F.  P.  M.  S. 

Heat  1  pint  of  milk  to  scalding  and  stir  into  it  1  cup 
grated  fresh  cocoanut.     Set  aside  until  cold;  add  5 


228  NATURE   CURE   COOK  BOOK 

eggs  beaten  until  light,  and  1  teaspoon  essence  of  bit- 
ter almonds.  Bake  in  a  buttered  pudding  dish  about 
fifteen  minutes.    Serve  with  whipped  cream. 


651.  Plain  Corn  Starch  Pudding 

Groups  St.  S.  F.  P.— M. 

Heat  1  quart  milk  to  boiling,  preferably  in  a  double 
boiler;  add  3  tablespoons  com  starch  rubbed  to  a 
smooth  paste  with  a  little  cold  milk,  sugar  to  taste,  and 
a  little  salt.  Boil  for  at  least  twenty  minutes  with  oc- 
casional stirring.  Pour  into  molds  to  cool.  Serve  with 
chocolate  sauce  or  fruit  juice. 


652.  Cottage  Pudding 

Groups  S.  St.  F.  P.— M. 

Rub  to  a  cream  1  cup  sugar  with  1  dessertspoon  of 
butter;  add  2  well-beaten  eggs,  i/^  cup  milk,  11/2  cups 
flour,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder  sifted  into  the  flour. 
Beat  well,  pour  into  a  fiat  baking  pan,  and  bake  twenty 
minutes.  Serve  with  nutmeg  sauce,  or  any  preferred 
sauce,  or  with  berries  mashed  and  sweetened  to  taste. 


653.  Cottage  Cheese  Pudding 

Groups  P.  F.  S. — M. 

Rub  1  cup  of  fresh  cottage  cheese  through  a  wire 
sieve,  add  2  well-beaten  eggs  and  enough  rich  milk  or 
cream  to  make  a  fairly  thin  batter.  Sweeten  to  suit 
taste  and  flavor  with  vanilla;  pour  luto  a  buttered  pud- 
ding form  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  about  twenty 
minutes.    Serve  with  soft  custard. 


DESSERTS  229 

654i  Cranberry  Sauce 

Groups  M.  S. 

To  1  quart  cranberries  add  3  apples,  quartered,  and 
water  to  cover.  Cook  about  fifteen  minutes,  strain, 
sweeten  to  taste,  and  let  boil  a  few  minutes  longer. 

655.  Cream  Puffs 

Groups  F.  St.  P.  S. — M. 

Heat  1  eup  water  in  %  cup  butter  until  it  boils ;  add 
1%  cups  flour  at  once,  and  mix  thoroughly;  let  cook 
about  five  minutes.  When  cool,  add  6  eggs,  one  at  a 
time.  Beat  until  thoroughly  mixed  and  drop  by  table- 
spoonfuls  on  buttered  tins  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven 
twenty-five  or  thirty  minutes.  When  cold,  cut  open 
and  fill  with  sweetened  whipped  cream,  flavored  with 
vanilla,  or  with  a  custard  filling  made  as  follows : 

Stir  2  eggs,  1  cup  sugar,  6  teaspoons  flour  and  a 
pinch  of  salt  into  2  cups  boiling  milk;  cook  until  thick; 
flavor  with  vanilla. 


656.  Cup  Pudding 

Groups  F.  St.  S.  M.— P. 

Cream  V^  pound  butter,  sift  in  5  tablespoons  flour 
and  1  teaspoon  baking  powder;  stir  until  perfectly 
smooth;  add  1  cup  milk,  3  tablespoons  sugar,  a  pinch 
of  salt,  and  1/2  cup  currants  which  have  been  cleaned 
and  soaked.  Fill  buttered  custard  cups  with  the  mix- 
ture ;  bake  in  a  good  oven  about  thirty  minutes.  Serve 
with  apple  sauce  or  other  fruit  sauce. 


230  NATURE  CURE  COOK  BOOK 

657.  Baked  Custard 
Groups  F.  P.  S.--M. 

Beat  4  eggs  with  1  quart  milk;  add  sugar  to  taste, 
also  a  dessertspoon  of  butter  and  a  pinch  of  salt. 
Flavor  with  vanilla  or  almond  extract,  or  with  grated 
lemon  rind.    Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  firm. 

For  individual  custards,  use  cups  set  in  a  pan  of 
water,  and  bake  twenty  minutes. 

658.  Steamed  Cup  Custard 

Groups  F.  P.  S. — M- 

Heat  1  quart  milk;  beat  4  eggs,  add  i/^  cup  sugar 
and  1  teaspoon  vanilla;  stir  into  the  hot  milk  very 
slowly ;  strain  the  mixture  into  a  pitcher  and  pour  into 
cups;  set  in  a  steamer,  cover  with  cheese  cloth  and 
then  with  steamer  cover;  steam  gently  ten  or  fifteen 
minutes ;  when  the  custards  are  done,  put  on  ice.  Grate 
a  little  nutmeg  over  the  top  before  serving. 

659.  Dates  with  Cream 

Groups  S.  F.  M.— P. 

Dates,  figs  and  prunes  may  be  used  for  many  des- 
serts. Dates  with  cream  is  a  simple  luncheon  dish,  and 
it  may  be  prepared  in  two  ways.  In  either  case  the 
dates  are  to  be  washed  and  stoned.  They  may  then 
be  steamed  until  very  tender,  cooled  and  served  with 
plain  cream,  or,  gently  stewed  in  a  syrup  (i/^  cup  sugar 
and  %  cup  water  to  1  pound  of  the  fruit),  slightly 
flavored  with  vanilla,  and,  when  cold,  served  with 
whipped  cream. 


DESSERTS  231 

660.  Date  Dessert 

Groups  S.  F.  M.— P. 

Wash  1  pound  dates,  remove  stones,  and  let  simmer 
in  1  pint  milk  on  the  back  of  the  stove  until  the  dates 
are  thick  and  the  color  of  chocolate.  Cool  and  serve 
with  whipped  cream. 

661.  Simple  Date  Dessert 

Groups  S.  F.  P.  M. 

Mix  1  cup  chopped  dates  with  1  pint  whipped  cream. 
Serve  garnished  with  blanched  almonds. 

662.  Date  Puddingf  (1) 

Groups  F.  P.  S.  M.— St. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  4  eggs  to  a  cream  with  1  cup 
sugar;  add  14  pound  each  of  dates  and  English  wal- 
nuts, chopped  fine,  V2  cup  whole  wheat  bread  crumbs, 
and  1  teaspoon  baking  powder.  Mix  thoroughly,  then 
fold  in  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  beaten  very  stiff.  Bake 
in  a  buttered  pan  about  thirty  minutes.  Serve  with 
whipped  cream. 

Note : — Figs  or  raisins  may  be  used  in  place  of  dates. 

663.  Date  Pudding  (2) 

Groups  F.  P.  S.  M. 

To  1  cup  chopped  dates,  1  cup  chopped  nuts,  ^^  cup 
sugar,  3  tablespoons  flour  and  1  teaspoon  baking  pow- 
der,  add  3  well-beaten  eggs;  bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
about  thirty  minutes.    Serve  with  cream. 


232  NATURE  CURE   COOK   BOOK 

664.  Date  Cream  Pudding 

Groups  S.  F.  P. 

To  1  quart  milk  add  3  tablespoons  fine  tapioca ;  cook 
about  fifteen  minutes,  then  add  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  and 
l'^  cup  sugar,  well  beaten  together,  and  1  pound  of 
rtoned  and  cut  dates;  cook  about  fifteen  minutes  longer ; 
remove  from  fire  and  fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten  whites 
c2  the  eggs.  Serve  either  hot  or  cold,  with  plain  or 
v.!iipped  cream. 

665.  Date  and  Nut  Pudding 

Groups  St.  S.  F.  P.— M. 

1  cup  sour  milk,  2  cups  flour,  1  cup  butter,  lA  tea- 
spoon salt,  1  teaspoon  baking  soda,  1/2  cup  nut  meats, 
1  cup  stoned  dates,  2  tablespoons  molasses,  2  table- 
rjpoons  brown  sugar,  %  teaspoon  grated  nutmeg.  Mix 
all  ingredients  thoroughly,  turn  into  a  well-buttered 
mold,  cover  with  buttered  paper,  and  steam  steadily 
for  two  hours. 

666.  Date  Souffle 

Groups  S.  F.  P.— M. 

To  the  well-beaten  yolks  of  4  eggs  add  8  tablespoons 
powdered  sugar,  i/^  pound  dates,  stoned  and  stewed 
until  soft,  and  a  little  extract  of  lemon.  Fold  in  the 
v.hites  of  the  eggs,  beaten  stiff  with  some  grated  orange 
peel.  Bake  in  a  slow  oven  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes. 
Sei've  with  vanilla  sauce. 

Note : — FJgs  or  raisins  may  be  used  instead  of  dates 
in  these  recipes. 


DESSERTS  233 

667.  Egg  Float 

Groups  F.  P.  M.— S. 

Scald  1  quart  milk  and  sweeten  to  taste;  beat  the 
whites  of  6  eggs  very  stiff  and  drop  by  spoonfuls  into 
the  scalding  milk ;  each  spoonful  will  sink,  then  puff  up 
light  and  fluffy;  remove  carefully  to  a  large  dish,  and 
cover  with  fresh  fruit, — pitted  cherries,  raspberries, 
strawberries,  or  peaches ;  make  a  custard  of  the  remain- 
ing milk  and  egg  yolks,  flavor  to  suit  taste,  and  pour 
over  all.  With  a  large  spoon  carefully  reverse  con- 
tents of  dish,  so  that  the  egg  float  comes  on  top.  In 
serving,  cut  down  through  so  as  to  serve  the  fruit,  cus- 
tard and  float. 


668.  Pig  Pudding  (1) 

Groups  S.  M.  P.— St. 

Cut  figs  to  make  1  quart ;  boil  with  enough  water  to 
cover,  and  add  Yo  cup  brown  sugar  and  1  tablespoon 
butter;  thicken  with  corn  starch  dissolved  in  a  little 
water.     Serve  with  cream. 


669.  Pig  Pudding  (2) 

Groups  S.  M.  P.  P.— St. 

]\Iix  well  2  cups  each  of  finely  chopped  figs  and  whole 
wheat  bread  crumbs;  add  1  large  tablespoon  melted 
butter,  1  cup  brown  sugar,  2  eggs,  juice  and  grated 
rind  of  1  lemon,  1  tablespoon  flour.  Steam  three  hours. 
Serve  with  whipped  cream,  or  with  fruit  sauce. 


234  NATURE   CURE   COOK  BOOK 

670.  Fig  Pudding  (3) 
Groups  St.  M.  F.  S.— P. 

Follow  directions  as  for  Recipe  No.  677, ' '  Dried  Fruit 
Pudding,"  substituting  chopped  figs  for  peaches,  and 
adding  1  teaspoon  ground  cinnamon. 

671.  Fig  Tapioca 

Groups  S.  M.  F.  P.  St. 

Soak  1  cup  tapioca  over  niglit.  In  the  morning  add 
1  cup  figs,  chopped  fine,  1  cup  chopped  nuts,  1  cup 
brown  sugar,  3  cups  cold  water;  steam  in  double  boiler 
one  or  two  hours ;  when  done,  stir  in  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 
Serve  cold  with  cream. 

672.  Floating  Island 

Groups  S.  F.  P.  M.— -St. 

Heat  1  quart  milk  in  a  double  boiler;  when  nearly 
boiling  stir  it  into  the  yolks  of  4  eggs  beaten  with  i^ 
cup  sugar;  put  back  into  double  boiler,  stir  until  it 
thickens,  take  from  fire,  add  ^2  teaspoon  vanilla,  then 
set  aside  to  cool.  When  ready  to  serve,  drop  over  the 
custard  little  mounds  of  white  of  egg,  beaten  very  stiff 
with  powdered  sugar.  A  few  currants  or  a  bit  of  cur- 
rant jelly  may  be  put  on  top  of  each  island. 

The  custard  may  be  made  with  2  tablespoons  coni« 
starch  and  2  eggs,  the  cornstarch  to  be  added  to  the 
milk  first. 

673.  French  Toast 

Groups  St.  P.  F.  S.— M. 

Dip  slices  of  stale  bread  into  beaten  egg  and  milk 
(1  egg  to  1  cup  milk) ;   season  with  a  little  salt  and 


DESSERTS  235 

let  stand  in  the  liquid  until  both  sides  are  well  moist- 
ened, then  frj'  in  butter  to  a  golden  brown.  Serve 
with  maple  sugar. 


674.  Fruit  Dessert  (1) 

Groups  M.  S.  F. 

Cut  into  chips  or  dice  any  suitable  fruit,  such  as 
peaches,  pears,  plums,  melons.  Serve  with  a  dressing 
of  whipped  cream  to  which  lemon  juice,  a  little  celery 
salt,  and  a  dash  of  cayenne  pepper  has  been  added. 

Note : — A  few  raisins,  chopped  very  fine  added  to 
the  whipped  cream,  will  give  a  delicate  flavor. 


675.  Fruit  Dessert  (2) 

Groups  M.  St.  F.— S.  P. 

Slice  and  mix  apples,  peaches,  pears,  plums,  melons, 
or  any  preferred  fruits.  Place  a  layer  of  fruit  in  a 
serving  dish,  cover  with  a  thin  layer  of  rolled  oats  or 
wheat.  Alternate  in  this  way  until  the  dish  is  filled. 
Serve  chilled,  with  whipped  cream  or  rich  cream. 


676.  Fruit  Pudding 

Groups  S.  M.  F.  P.— St. 

Mix  1  cup  water,  1  cup  sugar,  2  tablespoons  com. 
starch,  the  juice  and  rind  of  1  lemon,  1  orange,  and  1 
shredded  pineapple ;  boil  four  minutes ;  pour  the  boil- 
ing mixture  over  the  well-beaten  whites  of  2  eggs ;  cool 
and  serve  with  custard  or  cream. 


236  NATUBE   CURE   COOK  BOOK 

677.  Dried  Fruit  Pudding 
Groups  St.  M.  F.  S.— P. 

Rub  1/^  cup  butter  into  2i/^  cups  graham  flour;  when 
well  blended  add  1  cup  each  of  sweet  milk,  molasses, 
raisins,' chopped  fine,  and  dried  peaches,  which  have 
been  soaked  over  night,  then  cut  into  strips;  add  a 
little  salt  and  y^  teaspoon  baking  soda  dissolved  in  a 
little  hot  water.  Mix  well,  steam  in  a  buttered  mold 
about  three  hours.     Serve  with  lemon  sauce. 

678.  Fruit  Juice  Pudding 

Groups  M.  S.  F.— St. 

To  1  pint  fruit  juice  add  1  tablespoon  cornstarch 
dissolved  in  a  little  water;  heat  the  juice,  add  the  corn- 
starch and  boil  until  clear ;  put  in  a  mold,  cool,  and  set 
on  ice  until  wanted.     Serve  with  sweetened  cream. 

679.  Fruit  Whip 

Groups  M.  F.  S.  St.— P. 

Whip  1  pint  sweetened  cream  very  stiff;  stir  into 
it  lightly  1  cup  strawberries,  cut  in  half,  1  cup 
shredded  pineapple,  1  banana  and  1  orange,  chipped  or 
diced.     Serve  very  cold. 

680.  Frozen  Pudding 

Groups  F.  S. — P. 

Beat  1  quart  cream  with  sugar  to  taste,  and  a  few 
drops  vanilla;  add  y^  pound  macaroons  broken  into 
crumbs.  Divide  into  two  parts;  to  one  part  add  4 
ounces  sweet  chocolate;  to  the  other  part  add  candied 
cherries,  chopped  veiy  fine.     Fill  a  buttered  mold. 


DESSERTS  237 

alternately,  with  this  mixture,  and  pack  in  ice  and 
salt  for  five  hours. 

68L  Gooseberry  Pudding 

Groups  M.  S.  F.  P. 

Pick  stems  and  blossoms  from  2  quarts  gooseberries; 
put  into  a  stewpan  with  4  cups  sugar  and  a  very  little 
water;  when  cooked,  rub  through  a  coarse  sieve;  when 
cold  add  rich  boiled  custard  until  it  is  like  thick  cream ; 
pour  into  glass  bowls  and  cover  tops  with  whipped 
cream. 

682.  Gooseberry  Molds 

Groups  M.  St.  F. 

Clean  and  wash  gooseberries,  cook  in  cold  water  to 
cover  until  nearly  tender ;  drain  off  most  of  the  water, 
thicken  (not  too  stiff)  with  cornstarch  rubbed  to  a 
paste  with  cold  water;  let  cook  at  least  ten  minutes 
longer,  being  careful  to  prevent  burning;  sweeten  to 
taste  and  put  into  molds  which  have  been  dipped  in 
cold  water.     Serve  with  cream. 

683.  Graham  Pudding  (1) 

Groups  St.  S.  P.  P.  M. 

Into  2  cups  graham  flour  stir  1  cup  sour  milk,  1  table- 
spoon melted  butter,  1  cup  molasses,  1  cup  chopped 
raisins,  dredged  with  flour,  I/2  teaspoon  each  of  ground 
cloves  and  cinnamon,  a  little  nutmeg,  a  pinch  of  salt, 
and  1  teaspoon  baking  soda,  dissolved  in  1  tablespoon 
boiling  water.  Beat  thoroughly,  pour  into  a  well- 
buttered  mold,  and  steam  three  hours.  Serve  with 
cream  or  any  suitable  sauce. 


238  NATURE    CUKE    COOK   BOOK 

684.  Graham  Pudding  (2) 

Groups  St.  P.  F.  S.  M. 

lyn  cups  graham  flour,  i/4  cup  butter,  i/^  cup 
molasses,  1/2  cup  sweet  milk,  2  eggs,  1/2  cup  raisins, 
%  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water,  a  pinch  of 
salt,  and  spices  to  suit  taste.  Mix  well  and  steam 
three  hours.     Serve  with  any  preferred  sauce. 


685.  Grape  Fruit 

Groups  M. — S. 

Cut  grape  fruit  in  halves,  loosen  the  pulp  from  the 
rind  and  center  with  a  sharp,  pointed  knife.  Serve 
chilled,  with  or  without  sugar.  Garnish  in  any  man- 
ner preferred. 

686.  Grapes  in  Jelly 

Groups  S.  M.  F. 

Make  a  clear  orange  or  lemon  jelly;  fill  individual 
molds  to  the  height  of  about  one  iuch ;  when  hardened, 
place  in  each  mold  a  small  bunch  of  nice  grapes,  and 
fill  the  mold  with  jelly  to  nearly  cover  the  grapes. 
When  cold,  garnish  with  grapes  dipped  in  powdered 
sugar.     Serve  with  cream. 

687.  Grape  Sauce 
Groups  S.  II.  St.  P. 

Pick  over  and  wash  Delaware  grapes ;  cook  in  a  very 
little  water  about  thirty  minutes;  sweeten  to  taste; 
thicken  with  cornstarch,  if  desired.  Serve  cold  with 
whipped  cream. 


DESSERTS  239 

688.  Holiday  Pudding 

Groups  St.  3.  F.  P.— M. 

Mix  thoronglily  1  pint  bread  crumbs  with  1  "cup 
flour  and  1  cup  seeded  raisins,  floured;  add  1  cup  each 
of  molasses  and  water,  1  egg,  1  tablespoon  melted 
butter,  and  1  teaspoon  baking  soda  dissolved  in  a 
little  hot  water.  Fill  buttered  custard  cups  or  small 
jelly  glasses,  set  in  a  pan  of  hot  water  and  steam  about 
one  hour.  Serve  in  saucers  in  a  border  of  soft  cus- 
tard. 

Note : — If  jelly  glasses  are  used,  they  should  be  put 
on  strips  of  wood  placed  across  the  bottom  of  the  pan 
to  prevent  cracking  the  glass. 

689.  Lemon  Custard 

Groups  F.  M.  S.— St.  P. 

To  2  quarts  of  water  add  the  juice  of  6  lemons  and 
the  grated  rind  of  1;  let  boil  about  five  minutes, 
thicken  with  4  tablespoons  cornstarch  dissolved  in  a 
little  cold  water.  Beat  well  the  yolks  of  8  eggs  with 
2  cups  sugar;  when  light  and  foamy,  add  the  lemon 
mixture  and  stir  until  perfectly  blended,  then  let  boil 
about  ten  minutes,  with  frequent  stirring.  Serve  cold 
with  cream. 


690.  Lemon  Foam 

Groups  F.  M.  G.  P. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  4  eggs  thoroughly,  add  1  cup  sugar 
and  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  2  lemons ;  cook  until 
it  is  creamy,  then  stir  in  gradually  the  stififly  beaten 
whites  of  the  eggs.     Serve  cold  in  tall  glasses. 


240  NATURE    CURE    COOK   BOOK 

691.  Lemon  Pudding 

Groups  F.  P.  M.  S.— St. 

Beat  1  whole  egg  and  the  yolks  of  2;  add  %  cup 
water,  and  juice  of  2  lemons  and  grated  rind  of  1; 
mix  1  cup  sugar  acd  2  tablespoons  flour,  then  add  the 
eggs,  lemon  and  water;  cook  in  double  boiler  until 
it  thickens;  pour  into  a  buttered  baking-pan  and  let 
bake  ten  to  fifteen  minutes.  Beat  the  whites  of  the 
eggs,  add  a  little  sugar  and  spread  over  the  pudding ; 
let  brown,  cool,  and  serve. 

692.  Steamed  Lemon  Pudding 

Groups  F.  P.  St.  S. — M. 

Eub  to  a  cream  i/^  cup  each  of  butter  and  sugar; 
add  2  eggs,  one  at  a  time,  beat  well,  and  add  6  ounces 
sifted  bread  crumbs  and  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of 
1  large  lemon.  Put  into  a  buttered  mold  and  steam 
thirty  minutes. 

693.  Macaroon  Whip 

Groups  F.  S.  P.— St. 

Put  as  many  macaroons  as  wanted  into  the  oven  and 
heat  until  crisp,  then  roll  fine  with  a  rolling  pin;  add 
12  macaroons  to  each  pint  whipped  cream;  cut  12 
marshmaUows  in  thin  strips  and  add;  sv/eeten  with 
pov/dered  sugar,  flavor  with  vanilla,  and  serve  in  tall 
glasses. 

694.  Maple  Pudding 

Groups  S.  F.  P.— St. 

Dissolve  2  cups  maple  sugar  or  brown  sugar  in  3  cups 
water;   put  over  the  flame  and  stir  until  it  boils,  then 


DESSERTS  241 

add  3  tablespoons  cornstarch  dissolved  in  a  little  cold 
water;  let  boil  ten  ipinutcs,  then  stir  in  y^  cup  chopped 
walnuts.  Serve  cold  with  whipped  cre~m.  This  is 
a  delicious  dessert. 

695.  Maple  Cream  Pudding 

Groups  F.  M.  S.  P. 

Put  1  quart  thin  cream  in  double  boiler  with  a  pinch 
of  salt,  and  when  boiling  add  4  tablespoons  arrowroot 
dissolved  in  a  little  cold  milk;  cook  until  thick  and 
smooth,  then  add  a  few  teaspoons  cold  milk;  remove 
from  the  fire  and  add  the  beaten  yolks  of  3  eggs; 
return  to  fire  and  cook  until  eggs  are  set;  add  1 
tablespoon  maple  flavor,  pour  into  a  mold  dipped  in 
cold  water,  and  chill. 

Boil  1  cup  maple  syrup  Avith  %  cup  lemon  juice  until 
it  threads ;  remove  from  the  fire  and  cool  slightly,  then 
add  gradually  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  3  eggs;  let 
chill;  beat  1  cup  cream  until  stiff,  then  fill  into  the 
mixture.  "When  ready  to  serve,  turn  out  the  pudding 
and  serve  with  cream. 

696.  Marshmallow  Dessert 

Groups  F.  P.  M.  S. 

Stir  well  together  1  cup  chopped  nuts,  1  cup  cherries, 
1  cup  pineapple,  1  cup  marshmallows,  cut  fine,  and  1 
quart  stiffly  beaten  cream.     Serve  at  once,  or  freeze. 

697  Marshmallow  Pudding  (1) 

Groups  P.  S.  F.  M. 

Beat  the  whites  of  8  eggs  very  stiff;  add  14  table- 
spoons granulated  sugar;    divide  into  two  sections; 


242  IJATURE   CURE   COOK  BOOK 

dissolve  1  tablespoon  granulcted  gelatine  in  %  cup 
warm  water  for  each  portion,  coloring  one  portion 
pink,  leaving  the  other  one  white;  beat  into  the  eggs 
until  it  begins  to  stiffen,  then  turn  into  square,  flat 
mold,  first  pink,  then  white ;  slice  like  ice  cream ;  serve 
with  whipped  creim,  garnished  with  perfect  straw- 
berries, or  candied  cherries. 

608.  Marshmallow  Pudding  (2) 

Groups  S.  F.  P.— St. 

Soak  2  dozen  marshmallows  and  lA  cup  maple  sugar 
in  1  quart  cream  for  four  hours;  cut  an  angel  food 
coke  into  layers ;  spread  with  the  marshmallow  prepa- 
ration, add  another  layer  of  cake,  alternating  until  all 
is  used;  cover  the  whole  with  whipped  cream, 
sv/eetened  and  flavored  to  suit  taste.  Garnish  with 
candied  cherries  or  rcse  leaves. 

C99.  Minute  Tapioca 

Groujjs  S.  £t.  F. 

Place  1  cup  maple  syrup,  3  cups  hot  water  and  i/s 
cup  minute  tapioca  in  a  double  boiler;  let  cook  until 
very  clear ;  add  a  lump  of  butter  and  a  pinch  of  salt. 
Serve  with  cream. 

7G0.  Mound  Pudding 

Groups  F.  P.  S.  St. 

Put  2  tablespoons  gekitine  into  a  saucepan  with  2 
cups  rdlli;  mix  2  tablespoons  ccrnstarch  with  4  table- 
spoons sugar  and  1  cup  milk,  then  add  to  the  gelatine 
and  cook  five  minutes,  stirring  constantly;  remove 
from  the  fire,  add  the  well-beaten  yolks  of  4  eggs,  a 


DESSERTS  243 

pinch  of  salt,  y^.  teaspoon  almond  or  vanilla  flavoring, 
and  y^  cup  blanched  almonds;  mix  and  pour  into  a 
wet  mold  and  set  on  ice.  "When  ready  to  serve,  deco- 
rate with  whipped  cream  and  cherries.  Serve  with 
custard  sauce. 

701.  Norwegian  Dessert 

Groups  Et.  M.  F.— S.  P. 

2  cups  bread  crumbs,  3  cups  apple  sauce,  1  cup  pine- 
apple juice,  butter  and  nutmeg;  place  a  layer  of 
bread  crumbs  in  a  buttered  baking-dish,  cover  thickly 
with  apple  sauce ;  grate  a  little  nutmeg  over  this,  then 
repeat;  cover  with  pineapple  juice,  and  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  thirty  minutes.  Serve  cold  with 
\7Lippcd  cream. 

702.  Novel  Pudding 

Groups  F.  St.  P.  M. 

To  1  cup  bread  crumbs  add  1  well-beaten  tg^^  salt 
and  nutmeg  to  taste ;  mix  well,  then  add  1  cup  butter 
and  2  cups  asparagus,  cut  fine;  steam  two  hours  in  a 
well-buttered  mold.     Serve  with  hard  or  vanilla  sauce. 


703.  Steamed  Nut  Pudding 

Groups  F.  S.  P.— St.  M. 

Mix  well  together  y^  cup  each  of  sweet  milk,  butter 
and  molasses;  add  a  pinch  of  salt  and  enough  flour  to 
make  a  fairly  stiff  batter;  stir  in  1/2  teaspoon  baking 
soda  dissolved  in  a  little  of  the  milk,  and,  lastly,  add 
%  cup  each  of  seeded  rcisins,  Eng'lish  walnuts  and 
almonds,  chopped  rather  fine;    butter  a  mold,  dust 


244  NATURE   CURE   COOK   BOOK 

with  sifted  bread  crumbs,  put  in  the  nut  mixture  and 
steam  two  hours.  Serve  with  whipped  cream  or  any 
preferred  sauce. 

704.  Oranges  With  Cranberry  Sauce 

Groups  M.  S.  F. 

Slice  sweet  oranges,  sprinkle  with  sugar,  pour  cran- 
berry sauce  over,  and  serve  with  whipped  cream. 

705.  Orange  Float 

Groups  in.  S.  P.  St. 

Boil  the  juice  and  pulp  of  2  oranges,  grated  rind 
of  1  lemon,  1  cup  sugir  and  1  quart  water  about  ten 
minutes;  strain,  thicken  with  cornstarch  dissolved  in 
a  little  cold  water  and  let  boil  five  minutes  longer, 
with  constant  stirring.  Slice  or  chip  oranges  into  a 
glass  dish,  pour  over  the  custard  (after  it  has  cooled), 
spread  over  the  whole  the  well-beaten  whites  of  2 
eggs,  sweetened  to  taste  and  flavored  with  vanilla. 

706.  Orange  Foam 

Groups  M.  S.  F.  P. 

Stir  the  grated  rind  of  2  oranges,  the  juice  of  3 
oranges  and  1  lemon  with  1  cup  sugar  and  the  yelks 
of  3  eggs  for  five  minutes;  put  into  a  pan  of  boiling 
water,  stir  until  it  becomes  creamy,  then  mix  with  the 
stiffly-beaten  whites  of  the  eggs.     Serve  cold. 

707.  Orange  Pudding 

Follow  directions  for  ''Pineapple  Pudding,"  Recipe 
No.  727,  substituting  oranges  for  pineapple. 


DESSERTS  245 

708.  Orange  Souffle 

Groups  M.  F.  P.  S.  St. 

To  the  juice  and  pulp  of  3  oranges  and  the  grated 
rind  of  1,  add  4  ounces  of  grated  bread  crumbs ;  beat 
the  yollis  of  3  eggs  with  2  tablespoons  sugar  and  1  cup 
milk;  mix  well  with  the  oranges  and  bread  crumbs, 
stir  in  the  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs,  pour  into  a  well- 
buttered  baking-dish,  and  bake  about  twenty  minutes. 
Serve  with  fruit  sauce  or  whipped  cream. 

7C9.  Orange  Tapioca 

Groups  ]VL  St.  S.  F. 

Cook  1  scant  cup  minute  tapioca  until  clear  in  1 
pint  boiling  water,  with  1  cup  sugar  and  the  juice  and 
grated  rind  of  2  oranges  and  1  lemon.  Serve  in 
sherbet  cups,  with  whipped  cream  flavored  with  vanilla 
and  sweetened  to  taste. 

710.  Paradise  Pudding 

Groups  M.  S.  St.  F.  P. 

Mix  well  3  apples,  chopped  fine,  ^  cup  grated  car- 
rots, 1/^  cup  sugar,  2  cups  bread  crumbs,  3  eggs,  juice 
and  grated  rind  of  1  lemon;  mix  well,  put  into  a  but- 
tered mold  and  steam  two  hours.  Serve  with  hard 
sauce. 

711.  Baked  Peaches 

Groups  M.  S.  F. 

Wipe  a  sufficient  number  of  peaches,  cut  in  halves 
and  remove  stones;  fill  a  baking-dish  with  the  fruit, 
sprinkle  with  sugar  and  add  enough  water  to  cover 


246  NATURE   CURE   COOK  BOOK 

bottom  of  dish;    bake  in  a  slow  oven  for  one  hour. 
Serve  either  hot  or  cold,  with  plain  cream. 

Note: — Pears  baked  in  the  same  manner  are  deli- 
cious. 

712.  Peach  Betty 

Groups  M.  St.  S.  F. 

Follow  directions  for  Recipe  No.  626,  "Brown 
Betty,"  using  sliced  peaches  instead  of  chopped  apples. 

713.  Peach  Canapes 
Groups  St.  S.  M.  F.— P. 

Cut  sponje  cake  that  is  two  or  three  days  old  into 
two-inch  cuLes;  make  a  hollow  in  each,  fill  with  sliced 
peaches,  and  top  with  whipped  cream. 

714.  Peach  Custard 
Groups  M.  S.  St.— F.  P. 

Cover  the  bottom  of  a  glass  dish  with  stale  sponge 
cake;  cover  with  sliced  peaches,  sprinkle  with  sugar; 
pour  over  this  a  boiled  custard,  flavored  ^vith  vanilla; 
let  stand  for  one  hour,  then  cover  with  merin^e. 

715.  Peach  Dainty 

Groups  M.  S. 

Remove  the  skin  from  ripe  but  firm  peaches;  cut 
in  quarters,  remove  seeds,  dip  each  section  in  lemon 
juice  to  prevent  discoloration;  make  a  syrup  by  boil- 
ing 1  pound  of  granulated  sugar  with  ^  cup  water 
until  quite  thick ;  let  the  peaches  simmer  in  this  syrup 
for  a  minute  or  two;  put  into  the  freezer,  first  re- 
moving the  dasher,  and  pack  with  ice  and  salt.  Freeze 
to  the  consistency  of  water  ice. 


DESSERTS  247 

716.  Peach  Delight 
Groups  M.  S.  St.— P.  P. 

Pare  peaches,  cut  in  halves  and  remove  stones ;  boil 
the  kernels  in  V^  cup  v/ater  for  firteen  minutes,  then 
strain;  mix  i^  cup  sugar  with  1  tablespoon  flour; 
butter  a  deep  dish  well,  put  in  a  layer  of  peaches, 
sprinkle  with  sugar,  dot  with  butter,  cover  with 
another  layer  of  peaches,  and  continue  until  all  are 
used;  pour  the  water  in  which  the  pits  were  cooked 
over  this.  Make  a  rich  biscuit  dough  for  the  top,  and 
place  over  the  whole;  slit  in  a  few  places  to  let  the 
steam  escape.  Serve  as  you  would  shortcake,  with 
cream. 

717.  Peach  Fluff 
6roup3  M.  S.  F.  P. 

Peel  and  slice  12  ripe  peaches  (canned  peaches  may 
be  substituted  if  fresh  ones  are  not  in  market).  Whip 
^  pint  cream,  whites  of  2  eggs  and  1/2  c^P  powdered 
sugar  to  a  foam,  flavor  with  a  few  drops  bitter  almond 
extract,  then  add  3  tablespoons  blanched  almonds, 
chopped  fine.  Arrange  alternate  layers  of  peaches  and 
the  cream  fluff  in  a  glass  dish.     Chill  before  serving. 

718.  Peach  Pudding  (1) 
Groups  M.  F.  S.  P.— St. 

Scoop  out  a  shallow  loaf  of  sponge  or  other  plain 
cake,  fill  the  center  with  sliced  peaches,  either  fresh  or 
canned;  pour  over  the  yolks  of  3  eggs  beaten  with  2 
tablespoons  sugar  and  2  cups  milk;  flavor  as  preferred; 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  custard  is  set.  If  de- 
sired, sprinkle  chopped  nut  meats  or  grated  macaroons 
over  the  top.     Serve  with  any  suitable  sauce. 


248  NATURE   CURB   COOK  BOOK 

719.  Peach  Pudding  (2) 

Groups  M.  S.  F.  P. 

Peel  and  cut  fine  peaches  in  halves,  remove  stones 
and  fill  centers  with  macaroon  crumbs;  put  a  table- 
spoon whipped  cream  on  each  half,  and  garnish  in  any 
preferred  manner. 

720.  Peaches  Served  Like  Poached  Eggs  On  Toast. 

Groups  M.  S.  F.— P.  St. 

Cut  yellow  peaches  in  halves,  remove  skin  and 
stones.  Put  whipped  cream  on  toasted  slices  of  plain 
cake,  press  the  halved  peaches,  inner  side  down,  into 
it,  so  as  to  represent  poached  eggs.  Brush  the  outer 
surface  of  the  peaches  with  cream  or  with  powdered 
sugar  and  lemon  juice  beaten  together  until  smooth. 

721.  Peach  Trifle 

Groups  M.  S.  F.— St.  P. 

Take  large  fresh  peaches,  peel,  quarter  and  sugar 
well.  Cover  with  whipped  cream  and  serve  on  sUces 
of  stale  cake. 

722.  Peach  Whip 
Groups  M.  S.  P.  F. 

Cut  ripe  peaches  into  cubes  and  cover  with  sugar; 
whip  the  whites  of  eggs  stiff  and  beat  in  granulated 
sugar  until  there  is  a  stiff  meringue  in  the  proportion 
of  1  tablespoon  sugar  to  1  egg  white;  heap  in  the 
center  of  a  glass  dish,  pour  the  peaches  around  it. 
Serve  with  cream. 


DESSERTS  249 

723.  Surprise  Peaches 

Groups  M.  S.  F. 

Peel  and  halve  large  ripe  peaches,  remove  stones, 
fill  cavities  with  vanilla  ice  cream,  cover  with  the  other 
halves  of  the  peaches;  hold  in  place  with  large  tooth- 
picks with  haby  ribbon  tied  to  the  end.  Should  be 
served  at  once,  on  paper  napkins. 

724.  Pineapple  Brown  Betty 

Groups  M.  St.  S.  F.— P. 

Fill  a  baking-dish  with  alternate  layers  of  grated 
pineapple  and  bread  crumbs  sprinkled  with  sugar  and 
dotted  with  bits  of  butter;  the  upper  layer  should  be 
of  crumbs;  cover  with  a  plate  and  bake  about  thirty 
minutes  in  a  slow  oven,  then  remove  plate  and  let 
brown  on  top.  Add  a  little  water  if  the  pudding  seems 
to  get  too  dry. 

725.  Pineapple  Glace 

Groups  M.  F.  S.— St.  P. 

Whip  sweetened  cream  very  stiff,  add  pineapple  cut 
into  small  chips,  garnish  with  candied  cherries.  Serve 
with  plain  cake. 

726.  Pineapple  and  Marshmallow  Dessert 

Groups  M.  S.  F.— St. 

Cut  1  medium-sized  pineapple  into  large  dice, 
sprinkle  with  sugar  and  pour  over  1  cup  water.  Let 
stand  one  hour,  then  spread  over  marshmallows  cut  in 
halves  and  arranged  in  a  glass  dish.  Serve  with 
whipped  cream. 


250  NATURE  CUKE  COOK  BOOK 

727.  Pineapple  Pudding 
Groups  M.  S.  P.— St. 

Fill  a  two-quart  pudding-dish  about  one-third  full 
•with  sliced  or  diced  pineapple;  sprinkle  with  1/2  cup 
sugar;  let  stand  ten  minutes.  Into  1  pint  boiling 
wcter  stir  1  heaping  tablespoon  cornstarch  (rubbed 
smooth  in  cold  water) ;  let  boil  ten  minutes,  allow  to 
get  cool,  and  pour  over  the  pinerpple;  over  the  top 
spread  the  whites  of  2  eggs,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth 
with  1  tablespoon  sugar;   put  into  the  oven  to  brown. 

Note : — No  sauce  is  required  for  this  pudding,  as  the 
juice  from  the  pineapple  will  be  sufficient. 

728.  Pineapple  Tapioca 
Groups  M.  S.  St.  P.  F. 

Cook  1/2  cup  tapioca  with  1  quart  water  in  a  double 
boiler  until  clear ;  add  pineapple  cut  into  small  pieces, 
1  cup  sugar  and  the  juice  of  2  lemons;  fold  in  the 
well-beaten  whites  of  2  eggs.  Serve  with  slightly 
sweetened  whipped  cream. 

729.  Plum  Pudding 
Groups  F.  P.  St.  S.  M. 

Break  6  eggs  into  a  large  bowl,  beat  until  light, 
then  add  1  cup  sugar,  a  pinch  of  salt,  nutmeg  and  other 
spices  to  suit  taste,  1  cup  milk,  1  cup  seeded  raisins, 
1  cup  currants,  1  cup  chopped  almonds,  ^  cup  citron, 
cut  into  fine  strips,  1  cup  melted  butter,  2  cups  bread 
crumbs,  2  cups  flour,  and,  last,  1  teaspoon  baking  soda 
dissolved  in  a  little  hot  water.  Mix  thoroughly,  steam 
in  a  buttered  mold  or  in  a  bag  for  four  or  five  hours. 
Serve  with  hard  sauce. 


DESSERTS  251 

730.  Vegetable  Plum  Pudding 

Groups  M.  S.  St. 

Mix  together  1  cup  each  of  grated  raw  carrots  and 
potatoes,  seeded  raisins,  sugar  and  flour;  add  1  tea- 
Bpoon  powdered  cinnamon,  %  teaspoon  each  of  cloves 
and  nutmeg,  and  I/2  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  a  little 
hot  water.  Steam  in  cups  from  three  to  four  hours. 
Serve  with  hard  sauce. 


731.  Prune  Betty 

Groups  M.  St.  S.  P.  F, 

Cover  the  bottom  of  a  buttered  baking-dish  with 
coarse  bread  crumbs,  then  add  a  layer  of  cooked  and 
stoned  prunes ;  dust  with  cinnamon,  nutmeg  and  sugar ; 
fill  the  dish  with  alternate  layers  of  crumbs  and 
prunes;  cover  with  hot  milk  and  bake  about  thirty 
minutes.     Serve  with  whipped  cream. 


732.  Prune  Dessert 

Groups  M.  F.  P.  8. 

Soak  1  cup  prunes  over  night,  remove  seeds  and  cut 
into  quarters;  add  1  cup  each  of  diced  celery  and 
coarsely  chopped  nuts.  Serve  with  a  sauce  made  as 
follows: 

To  the  well-beaten  yolks  of  2  eggs  add  1  tablespoon 
lemon  juice,  2  of  orange  juice,  %  cup  prune  juice,  2 
tablespoons  powdered  sugar,  and  a  little  cinnamon. 
Mix  well,  cook  in  a  double  boiler  until  thick,  and 
fold  in  the  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  stiff. 


252  NATURE   CURE   COOK   BOOK 

733.  Prune  Souffle 

Groups  M.  P.  S. 

Mix  well  12  large,  well-cooked  prunes,  chopped  fine ; 
add  the  whites  of  4  eggs,  beaten  stiif ;  place  in  a  well 
buttered  baking-dish,  set  in  a  pan  of  hot  water  and 
bake  thirty  minutes. 

734.  Prune  Whip 

Groups  M.  P.  S.  F. 

Mix  thoroughly  1  cup  cooked  prunes,  chopped  fine, 
and  3  tablespoons  sugar;  fold  in  the  whites  of  5  eggs, 
beaten  very  stiff;  if  desired,  add  the  juice  of  1  lemon. 
Bake  in  a  slow  oven  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes.  Serve 
either  warm  or  very  cold,  with  whipped  cream. 

735.  Quince  Snow 

Groups  M.  P.  S. 

Quarter  6  quinces  and  steam  until  tender;  peel  and 
press  them  through  a  coarse  sieve,  sweeten  to  taste  and 
add  the  whites  of  4  eggs ;  beat  until  all  is  a  stiff  froth ; 
pile  with  a  spoon  on  a  glass  dish;  set  on  ice  until 
wanted.  Serve  in  tall  glasses,  garnished  with  candied 
fruit. 

736.  ^  Raisin  Puffs 

Groups  F.  S.  St.  P.— M. 

Cream  1  cup  sugar  with  ^  cup  butter;  add  the 
beaten  yolks  of  2  eggs,  2  cups  flour  sifted  with  2  tea- 
spoons baking  powder,  %  cup  milk,  1  cup  raisins,  1 
teaspoon  each  of  cinnamon  and  nutmeg,  and,  lastly, 
the  well-beaten  whites  of  the  eggs.  Steam  in  buttered 
cups  for  one  hour.      Serve  hot. 


DESSERTS  253 

737.  Rice  Pudding 

Groups  S.  St.  M.  F.  P. 

"Wash  1  small  cup  rice  thoroughly  in  several  waters, 
pour  boiling  water  over,  let  stand  five  minutes ;  drain, 
then  add  2  quarts  fresh,  rich  milk,  1  cup  sugar  and  a 
pinch  of  salt.  Bake  slowly  four  or  five  hours,  stirring 
often  during  the  first  hour,  then  leaving  it  undisturbed 
until  the  pudding  is  done.  Serve  cold,  with  fresh  or 
preserved  fruit,  or  with  jam. 


738.  Creamed  Rice  Pudding 

Groups  S.  F.  St.— M.  P. 

Wash  ^  cup  rice  and  put  on  to  cook  in  1  quart  cold 
water;  let  boil  two  or  three  minutes,  then  pour  off 
all  the  water ;  add  1  pint  milk  to  the  rice  and  cook  one 
liour  in  a  double  boiler;  add  I/2  ounce  gelatine  which 
has  been  soaked  two  hours  in  y^  cup  cold  water,  1  cup 
sugar  and  %  teaspoon  salt;  remove  from  fire  and  set 
in  a  pan  of  cold  water,  stirring  occasionally ;  let  stand 
until  nearly  cold,  then  add  4  tablespoons  pineapple 
juice  and  fold  in  y^^  cup  cream,  whipped  stiff;  put  in 
mold;  when  cold,  serve  with  whipped  cream  flavored 
with  strawberry  juice,  or  plain.  Garnish  with  angelica 
or  candied  cherries. 

739.  Delicate  Rice  Pudding 

Groups  F.  St.  M.— P. 

Add  1  cup  whipped  cream  to  1  cup  cold,  well-cooked 
rice,  %  cup  chopped  pineapple  and  a  little  vanilla. 
Serve  in  punch  cups,  garnished  with  cherries.  Pre- 
served ginger  may  be  used  in  place  of  pineapple. 


254  NATURE   CUBE   COOK  BOOK 

<"40.  Rice  Custard 

Groups  F.  St.  S.  P.— M. 

Cook  1  cup  rice  in  1  quart  milk  until  very  soft ;  add 
a  pinch  of  salt  and  a  piece  of  butter;  when  thoroughly 
cooked,  add  the  yolks  of  3  eggs  beaten  with  2  table- 
spoons sugar;  remove  from  the  fire  at  once,  flavor 
with  lemon  or  vanilla  and  pour  into  a  dish;  add  a 
little  powdered  sugar  to  the  stiffly-beaten  whites  of 
the  eggs,  spread  over  the  top  of  the  pudding,  brown 
slightly  in  the  oven.  This  pudding  should  be  creamy 
and  not  thick. 

741.  Rice  and  Figs 

Groups  M.  S.  St.  F.  P. 

Cut  12  figs  in  small  pieces,  stew,  then  mix  with  1 
cup  boiled  rice  and  1  cup  milk;  bake  in  a  buttered 
baking-dish  twenty  minutes. 

742.  Rice  and  Fruit  Dessert 

Groups  St.  M.  S.  F.— P. 

Sweeten  cold  boiled  rice  to  taste ;  cover  with  sliced 
bananas,  pears,  peaches,  grapes  cut  in  halves,  berries, 
or  any  preferred  fruit.  Serve  with  plenty  of  whipped 
cream. 

743.  Rice  Molds 

Groups  S.  St.  F.  P.  M. 

"Wash  2  ounces  of  rice  thoroughly,  simmer  in  double 
boiler  with  3  cups  milk,  6  lumps  sugar,  and  a  pinch 
of  salt,  until  the  rice  is  soft  and  creamy  and  the  milk 
entirely  absorbed;  rub  through  a  wire  sieve  and  fill 
individual  molds. 


DESSERTS  255 

Candied  cherries,  chopped  nuts,  dates,  figs,  raisins, 
etc.,  may  be  added  to  the  rice  before  it  is  put  into  the 
molds.  Serve  with  cream,  fruit  sauce,  or  fresh  fruit. 
With  sliced  peaches  and  cream  this  makes  a  delicious 
and  attractive  dessert. 

Note : — Before  filling  molds,  rinse  in  cold  water.  Be- 
fore emptying,  dip  them  in  hot  water  for  an  instant 
only.  This  will  cause  the  china  or  metal  to  expand, 
so  that  the  contents  may  easily  be  transferred  to  an- 
other dish. 

744.  Rice  and  Peach  Mold 

Groups  S.  St.  F.  P.  M. 

Cook  4  ounces  of  well-washed  rice  in  1  quart  milk 
very  slowly  until  tender;  add  2  ounces  sugar,  a  little 
salt,  and  2  teaspoons  vanilla ;  rub  through  a  wire  sieve. 
Rinse  a  plain  mold  or  flat  bowl  in  cold  water,  place  a 
firm,  sound  peach  in  the  bottom,  inner  surface  down; 
arrange  around  it  a  circle  of  cherries  or  fine  berries; 
cover  carefully  with  a  layer  of  rice,  leaving  enough 
room  at  the  sides  for  a  circle  of  peaches  cut  into 
eighths,  taking  care  to  have  the  sections  of  even  size ; 
finish  packing  the  mold  with  rice  and  put  on  ice  to 
set.  When  ready  to  serve,  invert  on  a  suitable  dish, 
put  a  spoonful  of  whipped  cream  in  the  hollow  of  the 
peach  on  top  of  the  dessert,  and  garnish  with  cherries 
or  berries.  Serve  with  whipped  cream  or  with  cherry 
juice  thickened  with  cornstarch  and  sweetened  to  taste. 

745.  Eice  Rouleaux,  With  Sauce 

Groups  St.  S.  M.  P.  P. 

Cook  rice  in  milk  until  stiff  enough  to  mold;  let 
cool,  form  into  rolls  with  two  spoons  dipped  in  cold 


256  NATUKE    CURE    COOK   BOOK 

water ;  roll  in  a  mixture  of  powdered  sugar  and  lemon 
juice,  beaten  until  smooth,  then  in  chopped  nuts. 
Serve  with  cranberry  sauce,  or  any  fruit  sauce. 

746.  Rice  With  Strawberry  Sauce 

Groups  St.  S.  M.  P.— F. 

Serve  well-cooked  rice,  either  warm  or  cold,  with  a 
sauce  made  as  follows : 

Rub  1  cup  sugar  with  1  tablespoon  butter  until 
creamy ;  add  the  whites  of  2  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth, 
and,  lastly,  1  pint  crushed  ripe  strawberries.  Beat 
well  together. 

Note : — This  dessert  is  delicious  with  cherry  sauce, 
prepared  in  the  same  manner. 

747.  Rice-Meal  Torte 
Groups  F.  P.  S.  St.— M. 

Separate  8  eggs;  stir  yolks  with  1  cup  sugar  in  one 
direction  for  thirty  minutes,  then  add  gradually  1  cup 
finely-ground  rice;  fold  in  the  stiffly-beaten  whites  of 
eggs;  bake  slowly  one  hour.  This  cake  must  be  han- 
dled very  carefully. 

748.  Rhubarb  and  Dates 

Groups  M.  S. 

Stone  dates,  wash  well,  cut  into  pieces  and  cook  in 
boiling  water  to  cover  until  fairly  soft;  the  water 
should  be  nearly  absorbed.  Wash  rhubarb,  cut  into 
pieces;  put  a  layer  into  a  buttered  baking-dish,  sprinkle 
slightly  with  sugar,  add  a  layer  of  stewed  dates,  and 
repeat  until  the  dish  is  filled ;  pour  over  a  small  quan- 
tity of  hot  water,  and  bake  twenty  minutes. 


DESSERTS  257 

749.  Rhubarb  Pudding 
Groups  M.  S.  St.— F. 

Into  a  well-buttered  baking-dish  put  2  cups  rhubarb, 
cut  into  inch-long  pieces  without  paring;  pour  over 
1  cup  brown  sugar  (the  light-brown  grade),  and  y^ 
cup  boiling  water.  Make  a  batter  of  2  cups  flour,  1 
dessertspoon  butter,  2  tablespoons  granulated  sugar 
and  y<2,  cup  cold  water;  pour  over  the  rhubarb,  and 
bake  twenty  minutes  in  a  hot  oven. 

750.  Rhubarb  Sauce 

Groups  M.  S. 

Wash  young  rhubsrb,  but  do  not  pare;  cut  into 
inch-long  pieces,  stew  with  a  small  quantity  of  water, 
about  fifteen  minutes,  or  bake  in  the  oven  from  twenty 
to  twenty-five  minutes.     Sweeten  to  taste. 

Note : — In  making  fruit  sauces,  much  less  sugar  will 
be  required  if  sugar  is  added  after  cooking. 

751.  Sago  Pudding 
Groups  P.  S,  St.  P.  M. 

Heat  2  quarts  milk  in  a  double  boiler ;  when  boiling, 
stir  in  gradually  1  cup  sago;  add  a  piece  of  butter 
the  size  of  a  walnut,  2  tablespoons  sugar,  and  a  pinch 
of  salt;  let  boil  until  sago  is  clear;  fold  in  the  beaten 
whites  of  4  eggs  and  sprinkle  with  grated  cocoanut. 
Serve  with  cream  or  fruit  sauce. 

752.  Sago  With  Raspberry  Sauce 

Groups  P.  P.  St.— M.  S. 

Cook  1  cup  sago  in  1  quart  milk;  add  a  piece  of 
butter  and  a  little  sugar;  when  tender,  add  the  beaten 


258  NATURE   CURE   COOK  BOOK 

whites  of  5  eggs;  cook  two  minutes;  flavor,  and  when 
cold  fold  in  1  cup  whipped  cream;  pour  into  mold  and 
set  on  ice.     Serve  with  crushed  raspberries. 

753.  Snow  Balls 
Groups  St.  P.  F.  M. 

Cream  i/^  cup  butter,  add  1  cup  granulated  sugar, 
and  beat  well;  mix  2  level  teaspoons  baking  powder 
with  2  cups  flour  and  i/^  cup  milk;  beat  the  whites 
of  5  eggs  very  stiff  and  add  lightly;  fill  buttered  cups 
half  full  of  the  mixture  and  steam  one  hour;  roll  in 
powdered  sugar  and  serve  with  fruit  sauce. 

754.  Snow  Banks 

Groups  St.  F.  P.— M. 

Beat  %  of  a  cup  of  rich  cream  with  the  white  of  1 
egg  until  stiff ;  sweeten  to  taste ;  stir  into  this  2  cups 
flaked  rice  or  wheat.  Serve  in  dainty  mounds,  with 
fruit  sauce. 

755.  Snow  Bisque 

Groups  F.  P.  S.— St.  M. 

Dip  slices  of  stale  cake  in  milk;  to  the  well-beaten 
white  of  egg  add  chopped  blanched  almonds  and  pow- 
dered sugar  to  taste.  Spread  over  the  cake  and  heat 
in  the  oven,  then  brown  on  top. 

756.  Snow  Pudding 

Groups  M.  P.  S.  St. 

Dissolve  1/2  cup  sugar  in  2  cups  boiling  water,  then 
add  3  tablespoons  cornstarch,  dissolved  in  a  little  cold 
water;  boil  ten  minutes  with  constant  stirring;  remove 


DESSERTS  259 

from  fire,  add  the  juice  of  2  lemons  and  the  whites  of 
3  eggs,  which  should  be  beaten  very  stiff.  Serve  with 
grape  juice  or  raspberry  sauce. 

757.  Sour  Cream  Pudding 

Groups  F.  S.  St.  P. — M. 

1  cnp  sour  cream,  y^  cup  chopped  raisins,  1  scant 
small  cup  sugar,  the  yolks  of  3  eggs  and  the  stiffly- 
beaten  whites  of  2  eggs  added  at  the  last,  and  a  little 
cinnamon;  line  a  baking  dish  with  biscuit  dough,  fill 
with  the  cream,  and  bake  with  crust.  Spread  with 
meringue  and  brown  in  the  oven. 

758.  Sponge  Cake 

Groups  F.  P.  S.  St.— M. 

Break  5  eggs  into  a  good-sized  bowl ;  add  1  tumblei 
of  granulated  sugar,  sifted  three  times;  beat  steadily 
for  twenty  minutes  in  one  direction,  with  an  egg-beater, 
then  fold  in  1  tumbler  of  flour,  sifted  three  times ;  bake 
thirty-five  minutes. 

759.  Steamed  Pudding,  With  Strawberry  Sauce 

Groups  St.  P.  F.  S.  M. 

Beat  together  the  whites  of  2  eggs  and  the  yolks 
of  1 ;  add  1  cup  milk,  1/2  cup  cold  water,  2  tablespoons 
melted  butter,  and  a  pinch  of  salt;  stir  into  this  mix- 
ture 1%  cups  flour,  sifted  tAvice  with  3  level  teaspoons 
baking  powder;  when  perfectly  smooth,  put  into  a 
buttered  pudding  mold  and  steam  forty  minutes,  or 
twenty  minutes  if  individual  molds  are  used.  Should 
be  served  as  soon  as  taken  from  the  fire. 


260  NATURE   CURE   COOK  BOOK 

For  the  sauce:  Rub  to  a  cream  11/2  cups  powdered 
sugar  ivith  i/^  cup  butter;  stir  into  this  1  quart  ripe 
strawberries,  quartered,  with  their  juice.  Let  stand 
in  a  cool  place  about  two  hours  before  serving. 


760.  Steamed  Nut  Pudding 

Groups  F.  S.  P.  St.— M. 

Mix  well  together  y^,  cup  each  sweet  milk,  butter 
and  molasses ;  add  a  pinch  of  salt,  flour  enough  to  make 
a  good  batter,  and  l^  teaspoon  soda,  dissolved  in  the 
milk;  stir  in  %  cup  each  of  seeded  and  chopped 
raisins,  chopped  English  walnuts  and  minced  figs; 
dredge  fruits  and  nuts  with  flour,  turn  the  pudding 
into  a  buttered  mold  and  steam  for  two  hours.  Serve 
with  sauce  made  as  follows : 

Cream  1^  cup  butter  with  y^  cup  sugar;  set  in  boil- 
ing water  and  beat  until  frothy;  add  1  cup  whipped 
cream  and  1  tablespoon  fruit  juice;   use  at  once. 

761.  Strawberry  Pudding 

Groups  M.  F.  S.  P.  St. 

Rub  to  a  cream  1  cup  sugar  and  1  tablespoon  butter; 
add  the  well-beaten  yolks  of  4  eggs,  2  cups  bread 
crumbs,  and  4  cups  milk;  pour  into  a  buttered  baking- 
dish  and  bake,  covered,  until  firm.  "Without  taking 
from  the  oven  (to  prevent  falling)  spread  quickly  with 
2  cups  nice,  ripe  strawberries,  sprinkle  with  sugar  to 
suit  taste,  and  cover  with  the  whites  of  eggs  beaten  to 
a  stiff  froth  with  y^  cup  powdered  sugar;  set  back  in 
in  the  oven  until  lightly  browned.  Eat  cold,  with 
cream. 


DESSERTS  261 

762.  Strawberry  Souffle 

Groups  M.  S.  P.  F. 

Soak  1  box  powdered  gelatine  in  i/^  cup  cold  water 
for  half  an  hour ;  stir  1  cup  sugar  in  1  pint  strawberry 
juice  and  boil  three  minutes ;  while  still  hot,  pour  over 
the  gelatine ;  let  stand  until  it  begins  to  thicken,  then 
whip  with  an  egg-beater  and  allow  to  cool ;  add  1  cup 
chopped  strawberries;  when  firm,  serve  with  whipped 
cream. 

763.  Toby  Pudding 

Groups  St.  S.— M.  F. 

Cut  stale  bread  into  cubes;  fill  a  buttered  mold 
nearly  full  and  pour  over  it  a  glass  of  hot  currant 
jelly;  leave  until  it  has  set.  Turn  out  and  serve  with 
whipped  cream. 

764.  Whipped  Cream 

Groups  F.  S. 

Have  the  cream,  bowl  and  beater  very  cold.  Turn 
the  cream  into  the  chilled  bowl,  add  enough  powdered 
sugar  to  sweeten  slightly  and  whip  quickly  with  a  wire 
egg- whip;  it  will  thicken  immediately  and  be  ready 
in  five  minutes.  Flavor  to  suit  taste  and  serve  in  any 
manner  preferred. 

765.  Fruited  Whipped  Cream 

Groups  M.  F.— S. 

Whip  1  pint  cream  stiff,  sweeten  well,  and  stir  into 
it  lightly  1  cup  whole  strawberries,  1  banana,  peeled 
and  cut  into  dice,  1  orange,  peeled  and  diced,  and  1 


262  NATURE  CURE   COOK  BOOK 

cup  finely  minced  pineapple.  Serve  very  cold.  As 
the  fruits  are  very  acid,  the  cream  should  be  very 
Bweet. 

766.  Wonder  Pudding 

Groups  F.  P.— M. 

Whip  1  pint  cream,  sweeten,  flavor,  and  pour  into  a 
dessert-dish  and  decorate  with  the  following  mixture: 
Mix  1  cup  peeled  chestnuts  with  I/2  cup  melted,  un- 
sweetened chocolate,  and  put  through  a  potato-ricer 
over  the  top  of  the  whipped  cream. 

SAUCES  FOR  PUDDINGS  AND  CUSTARDS 

767.  Caramel  Sauce 
Groups  S.  F.  St 

Rub  1  teaspoon  flour  into  2  cups  sugar  that  has  been 
bro^vned  in  the  oven,  add  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut 
(melted),  then  i/^  cup  cream.  Beat  well,  and  cook  in 
a  double  boiler,  stirring  frequently  until  the  mixture 
has  a  waxy  appearance.  Remove  from  the  fire  and 
flavor  with  vanilla. 

768.  Cardinal  Sauce 
Groups  M.  St.— F. 

Cook  1  cup  of  cherries,  stoned,  i/^  cup  raisins  and 
1/2  cup  pineapple,  cut  into  cubes,  in  1  quart  of  water 
until  tender,  then  add  the  juice  of  1  lemon,  a  little 
cornstarch  dissolved  in  milk,  1  orange  cut  into  cubes; 
sweeten  to  taste,  and,  if  desired,  add  the  well-beaten 
yolk  of  1  egg. 


DESSERTS  263 

769.  Chocolate  Sauce 
Groups  S.  F.  P.— M. 

Heat  1  pint  milk  to  boiling.  In  a  separate  pan, 
melt  2  ounces  bitter  chocolate,  shaved  fine,  with  3 
tablespoons  sugar  and  about  %,  cup  boiling  water. 
"When  perfectly  smooth,  add  this  to  the  milk  and  stir 
until  well  blended.  Beat  the  yolks  of  3  eggs  with  3 
tablespoons  sugar,  a  pinch  of  salt  and  a  little  cold  milk. 
Into  this  mixture  pour  slowly,  with  constant  stirring, 
the  boiling  milk  and  chocolate.  Return  to  the  fire  and 
let  come  to  boiling,  then  set  aside  to  cool.  Stir  occa- 
sionally until  quite  cold.     Add  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

770.  Cream  Sauce 

Groups  F.  S. 

Beat  well  1  cup  rich  cream  with  powdered  sugar  to 
suit  taste.  Flavor  with  almond  extract  or  grated 
blanched  almonds,  allowing  1  bitter  almond  to  every  ?.0. 

771.  Whipped  Cream  Sauce 

Groups  F.  S. 

Cream  %  cup  butter  with  y^.  cup  sugar;  set  in  boil- 
ing water  and  beat  until  frothy.  Add  1  cup  cream, 
which  has  been  whipped  very  stiff.  If  a  fruit  flavor 
is  desired,  add  1  tablespoon  grape  or  any  other  fruit 
juice. 

772.  Soft  Custard  Sauce 

Groups  F.  S.  P.— M. 

Heat  2  cups  milk  in  a  double  boiler.  When  scalding, 
pour  it,  a  little  at  a  time,  into  the  yolks  of  3  eggs 
beaten  with  3  tablespoons  granulated  sugar.     Put  back 


264  NATURE  CURE  COOK  BOOK 

into  the  double  boiler  and  let  thicken,  then  flavor  with 
vanilla  and  set  aside  to  cool. 

773.  Foamy  Sauce 

1  cup  granulated  sugar,  yolks  of  3  eggs;  stir  con- 
stantly for  ten  minutes,  or  until  it  gets  foamy;  add  1 
teaspoon  vanilla  or  almond  flavor.     Serve  at  once. 

774.  Fruit  Sauce 

Groups  M.  St.  S. 

Take  any  desired  fruit,  cover  with  water  and  cook 
until  tender;  strain,  thicken  with  a  little  cornstarch, 
and  sweeten  to  taste. 

775.  Raw  Fruit  Sauce 

Groups  M.  S. 

Crush  berries  of  any  kind,  one  or  more  varieties, 
sweeten  and  serve  with  puddings  or  rice. 

776.  Grape  Sauce 

Groups  S.  M.— St.  P. 

Pick  and  wash  Delaware  grapes,  add  a  little  water 
and  let  cook  about  half  an  hour.  Sweeten  and  let 
cool.    Thicken  with  cornstarch  if  desired. 

777.  Ema's  Hard  Sauce 

Groups  S.  F.  P. 

Rub  1/4  cup  butter  to  a  cream,  add,  gradually,  1  cup 
powdered  sugar,  alwaj'-s  stirring  in  one  direction,  and 
the  whites  of  2  eggs.  "When  light  and  foamy,  flavor 
with  extract  of  vanilla  and  keep  in  a  cool  place  until 
wanted.     Grate  a  little  nutmeg  over  the  top. 


DESSERTS  265 

778.  Mock  Maple  Syrup 

Groups  S. 

Dissolve  brown  sugar  in  boiling  water.  When  cool, 
flavor  with  vanilla. 

779.  Nutmeg  Sauce 

Groups  S.  F.  P.— M. 

Rub  1/2  cup  sugar  to  a  smooth  cream  with  2  table- 
spoons butter.  Add  1  egg,  beaten  very  light,  1  table- 
spoon lemon  juice,  and  1  heaping  teaspoon  grated  nut- 
meg. Beat  well,  then  add  3  tablespoons  boiling  water. 
Place  the  dish  in  a  pan  of  boiling  water  and  keep 
stirring  until  the  sauce  is  scalding  hot,  but  do  not 
let  it  boil. 

Cinnamon  sauce  may  be  made  in  the  same  manner. 

780.  Orange  Sauce 

Groups  M.  S.  F. — St. 

Dissolve  %  cup  sugar  in  1%  cups  boiling  water. 
Thicken  with  1  heaping  tablespoon  cornstarch,  rubbed 
smooth  in  a  little  cold  water.  Let  boil  about  ten 
minutes,  then  add  the  juice  of  2  oranges  and  some 
of  the  grated  orange  rind,  also  a  lump  of  butter  the 
size  of  a  walnut,  and  pour  the  mixture  into  the  beaten 
yolk  of  1  egg,  stirring  constantly  until  well  blended. 

781.  Pudding  Sauce 

Groups  F.  S.  P. 

1/2  cup  of  butter,  1  cup  sugar,  1  egg,  1  teaspoon 
vanilla.  Stir  for  fifteen  minutes,  and  just  before  serv- 
ing  add  2  tablespoons  boiling  water. 


266  NATURE   CURE   COOK  BOOK 

782.  Vanilla  Sauce 

Groups  S.  F.  St.— M. 

Rub  1  cup  brown  sugar  into  y2  cup  butter,  and  stir 
in  one  direction  until  foamy.  Add  2  tablespoons  flour. 
"When  well  mixed,  add  enough  boiling  water  to  make 
the  right  consistency,  and  let  boil  about  three  min- 
utes, with  constant  stirring.  Add  the  juice  of  ^ 
lemon  and  flavor  with  extract  of  vajoilla  to  suit  taste. 


CEREAL  FOODS 

Key  to  reference  letters:  St.  (Starches).  S.  (Sugars). 
F.  (Fats).    P.  (Proteids).    M.  (Mineral  Elements). 

Cereal  foods,  on  account  of  their  great  abundance, 
cheapness,  keeping  qualities  and  easy  transportability, 
comprise,  by  far,  the  largest  and  most  important  part 
of  human  food.  Some  varieties  of  grains,  corn,  buck- 
wheat, or  rice  can  be  gro"VYn  in  almost  any  habitable 
locality  on  earth.  However,  grains  and  rice  by  them- 
selves are  not  well-balanced  foods,  as  shown  in  our 
tables  of  food  analysis. 

White  Flour  and  Polished  Rice 

Cereals  contain  large  quantities  of  gluten  (from 
eight  to  twelve  per  cent)  which  is  equal  in  nourish- 
ing qualities  to  tiie  protein  of  flesh  foods.  Further- 
more, they  contain  from  one  to  two  per  cent  of  fats, 
and  from  65  to  75  per  cent  of  starchy  food  elements. 
The  all-important  mineral  elements,  however,  are  rep- 
resented in  small  quantities  only,  from  eight  to  thir- 
teen parts  per  thousand,  and  the  larger  part  of  these 
is  lost  in  the  refining  process  in  the  mill  in  order  to 
comply  with  the  fashionable  demand  for  white  flour 
and  white  rice. 

This  foolish  but  almost  universal  custom  necessi- 
tates not  only  the  removal  of  the  mineral  salts  which 
are  located  in  and  under  the  hulls,  but  also  of  a  large 
proportion  of  the  gluten,  which  is  equal  in  nourishing 

267 


268  NATURE   CURE   COOK    BOOK 

value  to  meat;  worst  of  all,  it  involves  the  loss  of  the 
Vitamines  (see  pages  13,  14). 

The  white  flour  and  polished  rice  of  commerce,  hav- 
ing been  robbed  of  their  mineral  constituents  in  the 
milling  process,  contain  only  from  one  to  three  parts 
per  thousand  of  mineral  elements. 

Just  think  of  the  wasteful  foolishness  of  this  prac- 
tice! The  valuable  gluten  and  mineral  salts  go  into 
the  bran  and  help  to  build  up  the  healthy,  powerful 
bodies  of  our  domestic  animals,  while  man,  the  ' '  Crown 
of  Creation, ' '  grows  dyspeptic,  anaemic,  thin  and  nerv- 
ous on  the  white,  starchy  flour,  robbed  of  its  most  im- 
portant elements  of  nutrition. 

Furthermore,  it  is  well  to  consider  how  this  foolish 
practice  contributes  to  the  high  cost  of  living;  the 
protein-gluten  of  the  grains,  which  costs  from  two  to 
three  cents  per  pound,  or  less  if  gi'ound  at  home,  is 
discarded  in  the  bran,  and  in  place  of  it,  meat-protein, 
contaminated  by  all  the  morbid  matter  and  systemic 
poisons  of  the  animal  carcass,  is  bought  in  the  butcher 
shop  at  the  cost  of  10  to  30  cents  per  pound. 

Government  investigation  of  the  dreadful  beri-beri 
disease,  which  since  the  American  occupation  has  in- 
creased to  an  alarming  extent  in  the  Philippines  and 
Hawaiian  Islands,  has  revealed  the  fact  that  this  dis- 
ease is  caused  by  the  consumption  of  polished  rice. 
When  the  patients  suffering  from  this  malady  are  given 
even  small  quantities  of  the  "polishings"  of  the  rice, 
which  contain  the  "Vitamines"  of  the  cereal,  they 
recover  quickly. 

While  our  "polished"  white  flonr  cannot  be  held 
directly  responsible  for  such  a  serious  disease  as  beri- 
beri, it  is  difficult  to  tell  how  much  it  has  to  do  with 
the  creation  of  the  manifold  ailments  from  which  the 


CEREAL  POODS  269 

civilized  portion  of  humanity  is  suffering.  Surely,  the 
discovery  of  the  cause  of  beri-beri  should  be  a  strong 
warning  against  ''polishing"  our  grains  in  a  similar 
manner  as  the  rice. 

"We  may  safely  assume  that  the  Great  "Wisdom  which 
created  this  wonderful  human  body  knows  also  how 
to  feed  it,  and  that,  therefore,  the  safest  way  is  to 
consume  foods  as  nearly  as  possible  in  the  forms  in 
which  they  come  from  Nature's  hands.  If  food  has 
to  pass  through  the  processes  of  cooking,  spicing,  fer- 
menting and  chemical  treatment  before  it  becomes 
edible  and  palatable,  it  is  not  a  natural  food. 

The  Structure  and  Chemical  Properties  of  a  Kernel 
of  Wheat 

To  illustrate  the  fatal  mistakes  which  are  made  in 
the  production  of  "super-fine"  white  flour  and  other 
artificial  cereal-food  products,  we  give  below  the  dia-. 
gram  of  a  wheat  kernel,  greatly  enlarged.  This  illus- 
tration is  taken  from  "The  Foundation  of  All  Eeform," 
by  Otto  Carque,  an  excellent  little  treatise  on  the  diet 
question. 

The  outer  layer,  1,  is  the  hull,  or  tough,  outer  coat- 
ing, which,  broken  up  into  fine,  bran  particles,  fur- 
nishes necessary  bulk  in  the  digestive  tract.  The  par- 
ticles of  ground  hull  in  the  whole  grain  meal,  act  as 
a  splendid  stimulant  to  the  peristaltic  movements  of 
the  bowels.  They  also  sem^e  to  keep  the  starchy  con- 
stituents of  the  grain  from  forming  lumpy  masses  in 
the  digestive  tract.  They  separate  the  starchy  par- 
ticles so  that  the  digestive  juices  can  better  penetrate 
and  digest  the  starchy  and  protein  mass.  For  these 
reasons  whole  grain  bread  and  cereal  preparations  act 


270  NATURE    CURE    COOK    DOOK 

as  natural  laxatives,  while  bread  and  pastry  made  from 
white  flour,  together  with  meat,  coffee,  tea,  strong 
spices  and  condiments  are  the  most  prominent  causes 
of  indigestion  and  constipation. 

What  little  the  kernel  of  grain  possesses  of  the  all- 
important  positive  mineral  salts  of  iron,  lime,  sodium, 
potassium  and  magnesium  and  the  Vitamines,  are  con- 
tained in  and  under  the  hull.  The  black,  powdery 
deposit  underneath  the  hull  also  consists  of  mineral 
elements. 

It  is  the  mineral  salts  which  give  textile  strength 


and  toughness  to  the  hulls  of  grains  and  to  the  pro- 
tecting skins  and  rinds  of  fruits  and  vegetables,  and, 
therefore,  when  tender  and  palatable,  these  should  al- 
ways be  eaten  together  with  the  inner,  meaty  parts  of 
the  foods. 

Layers  2  and  3  contain  nitrogenous  matter  and  are 
rich  in  the  alkaline,  mineral  salts  of  silicon,  phosphorus 
and  potassium,  which  build  bones  and  teeth. 

In  layers  4  and  5  we  find  a  cerealine  substance  which 
gives  color  and  flavor  to  the  kernel. 

Layer  6  consists  mostly  of  gluten,  while  the  interior, 
white  body  (7)  is  made  up  principally  of  starch. 


CEREAL   POODS  271 

Eight  is  the  germ  which  contains  the  life-principle, 
and  valuable,  easy-soluble  organic  salts.  The  germ 
also  contains  the  natural  ferments  of  the  grain  which, 
under  the  influence  of  moisture  and  warmth  in  the  soil, 
change  the  starchy  and  proteid  materials  into  sugars 
and  peptones,  which  serve  as  food  for  the  growing 
stalk  and  roots,  in  like  manner  as  the  substance  of  the 
egg  serves  as  food  for  the  growing  chick. 

Diastase  is  the  ferment  which  changes  starch  into 
dextrine  and  sugar,  and  peptase  is  the  ferment  Avhich 
changes  proteid  into  proteose  and  peptones. 

From  all  the  brands  of  flour  manufactured  in  the 
modern  roller  mills,  the  germs  have  been  removed,  be- 
cause otherwise  the  flour  or  meal  will  quickly  deterio- 
rate, ferment  and  breed  maggots,  due  to  the  action  of 
the  live  ferments  in  the  germ.  These  ferments,  how- 
ever, perform  the  same  work  as  the  digestive  juices 
in  the  system.  Therefore,  by  depriving  the  flour  of 
^he  germs,  its  keeping  qualities  are  improved,  but  on 
the  other  hand  it  is  robbed  of  the  most  valuable  fer- 
ments, which  greatly  facilitate  the  digestion  of  the 
starches  and  proteins. 

In  the  preparation  of  white  flour,  laj'ers  1,  2,  3,  4, 
5,  6,  and  the  life  germ  with  its  valuable  salts  and  fer- 
ments, are  removed,  leaving  a  product  which  has  been 
robbed  of  its  most  valuable  constituents  and  finest 
qualities  and  which,  therefore,  is  unfit  for  food. 

In  the  preparation  of  bread  from  such  devitalized 
flour,  the  live-organic  mineral  salts  must  be  replaced  by 
the  inorganic  table  salt,  and  the  organic  ferments, 
diastase  and  peptase,  must  be  replaced  by  yeast,  soda, 
alum,  cream  of  tartar,  and  other  harmful,  mineral 
baking  powders. 


272  NATURE   CURE   COOK  BOOK 

Bohemian  Rye 

The  ordinary  rye  flour,  the  so-called  Bohemian  rye, 
is  made  on  the  same  principle  as  white  flour,  that  is, 
much  of  the  gluten,  the  hull,  and  the  organic  salts 
have  been  removed  in  the  milling  process.  Further- 
more, this  brand  of  flour  is  frequently  mixed  with  infe- 
rior white  flour,  which,  on  accoimt  of  its  dark  color,' 
cannot  be  sold  as  such. 

Rye  Meal 

The  rye  meal  from  which  the  Germans  prepare  their 
dark  rye  bread,  if  ground  in  an  old-fashioned  stone- 
burr  mill,  contains  all  the  constituents  of  the  rye,  and 
is,  therefore,  good  material  for  our  health  bread. 

Graham  Flour 

The  original  graham  flour,  as  advocated  by  Dr.  Syl- 
vester Graham,  was  made  of  the  entire  wheat,  but  the 
graham  flour  of  commerce  as  now  sold,  is  usually  pre- 
pared by  mixing  bran  with  shorts. 

Whole  Wheat  Flour 

Many  of  the  so-called  whole  wheat  flours  are  not 
whole  wheat  in  fact.  While  they  contain  the  starchy 
and  glutenous  parts  of  the  cereals, — the  hulls,  and  with 
them  the  mineral  salts,  have  been  removed  in  the  mill- 
ing process,  under  the  mistaken  idea  that  the  hulls  of 
cereals  are  too  coarse  and  irritating  and  therefore  in- 
jurious to  the  digestive  tract.  This  is  in  line  with  much 
other  "wisdom  of  the  schools,"  which  presumes  to 
know  better  what  is  good  for  beast  and  man  than 
Mother  Nature. 


CEREAL  POODS  273 

Gluten  Flour 

From  the  viewpoint  of  our  low  protein  diet,  gluten 
flour  and  protose  are  positively  dangerous.  They  are 
the  concentrated  extracts  of  the  gluten  or  proteid  mat- 
ter of  grains,  legumes  and  nuts. 

Gluten  flour  is  highly  recommended  to  people  suffer- 
ing from  diabetes.  We,  however,  hold  that  a  high  pro- 
teid diet  is  much  more  dangerous  in  diabetes  than  a 
diet  containing  moderate  amounts  of  starches  and 
sugars.  Functional  diabetes  is  caused  largely  by  the 
clogging  of  the  capillary  circulation  with  uric  acid  and 
other  morbid  materials,  produced  in  the  digestion  of 
proteid  food.  This  will  be  more  fully  explained  in  the 
next  following  volume  of  this  series,  entitled,  "Natural 
Dietetics." 

Protose 

Protose  is  an  extract  of  the  protein  materials  of 
grains,  legumes,  and  nuts,  even  more  concentrated  than 
gluten  flour,  and  therefore  a  more  unbalanced  food  and 
more  dangerous  to  health.  Such  artificially  unbalanced 
food  products,  if  used  at  all,  must  be  taken  together 
with  liberal  proportions  of  the  food  of  the  mineral 
group,  (V). 

From  the  foregoing  it  becomes  apparent  why  it  is 
almost  impossible  to  buy  in  the  open  market  a  genuine 
whole  grain  flour  or  meal. 

Practically  the  only  way  to  obtain  flour  which  eon- 
tains  all  the  constituents  of  the  grain,  is  either  to  pro- 
cure it  from  an  old-fashioned  stone-burr  mill,  or  to 
grind  it  at  home  fresh  for  daily  use,  on  one  of  our 
small  hand-grain  mills,  which  we  sell  at  $4.50  each, 
F.  0.  B.  Chicago. 


274  NATURE   CURE   COOK   BOOK 

Breakfast  Foods 

Freshly  ground  or  cracked  grains  not  only  make 
the  best  bread,  but  also  delicious  mushes  and  gruels. 
Of  the  many  cereal  and  breakfast  foods  on  the  market, 
those  are  the  best  which  are  made  of  the  whole  of  the 
grain,  such  as  shredded  wheat  biscuit  and  com  flakes. 
We  avoid  the  use  of  pre-digested  foods. 

CEREALS. 

783.  Barley  Mush 

Groups  St.  P. — M. 

1  cup  barley  meal,  5  cups  boiling  water,  salt  to  taste ; 
cook  same  as  oatmeal,  in  double  boiler. 

784.  Cereal  and  Berries 

Groups  St.  M.  F,  P. 

A  dish  of  toasted  corn  flakes,  or  any  of  the  prepared 
cereals,  covered  with  fresh  strawberries  or  raspberries, 
with  plenty  of  cream,  makes  a  most  palatable  breakfast 
or  luncheon  dish. 

785.  Corn  Meal  Mush 

Groups  St.  P.— M. 

To  1  quart  boiling  water  add  1  teaspoon  salt  and  1 
cup  corn  meal;  sift  meal  in  gradually,  then  cook  in 
double  boiler  at  least  thirty  minutes,  or  cook  several 
hours  in  fireless  cooker. 

786.  Graham  Flour  Mush 

Follow  directions  for  making  Com  Meal  Mush,  as 
above. 


CEREAL  FOODS  275 

787.  Oatmeal  with  Dates  or  Figs 

Groups  St.  p.  S.  F.  M. 

Add  1  tablespoon  seeded  and  chopped  dates,  or 
stewed  minced  figs,  to  each  portion  of  well-cooked  oat- 
meal.   Serve  with  cream. 

788.  Whole  Wheat 

Groups  St.  P.  M. 

Soak  whole  wheat  several  hours  in  cold  water;  bring 
to  boil  and  cook  about  fifteen  to  thirty  minutes,  accord- 
ing to  amount  to  be  cooked ;  add  a  little  salt,  then  put 
in  fireless  cooker  and  finish  cooking,  or  steam  in  double 
boiler. 

789.  Whole  Wheat  Mush 

Groups  St.  P.  M. 

Grind  the  desired  quantity  of  whole  wheat;  to  1  cup 
whole  wheat  meal  add  about  5  cups  boiling  water,  salt 
to  taste;  sift  meal  through  the  fingers  into  boiling, 
salted  water,  and  cook  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes  on 
top  of  stove,  then  finish  cooking  in  fireless  cooker  or  in 
a  double  boiler. 

BEEADS 

Key  to  reference  letters:  St.  (Starches),  S.  (Sugars). 
F.  (Fats).    P.  (Proteids).    M.  (Mineral  Elements). 

A  good  whole  grain  bread  is  the  very  foundation  of 
a  rational  vegetarian  diet.  "We  soon  realized  this  when 
we  first  tried  to  live  on  a  vegetarian  diet,  and  when  we 
entered  upon  the  Sanitarium  work. 

"We  tried  certain  brands  of  so-called  **  whole-wheat 
flour,"  but  found  that  while  they  contained  the  gluten- 


276  NATURE   CURE   COOK   BOOK 

ous  and  starchy  parts  of  the  grain,  they  were  entirely 
lacking  in  the  bran,  and,  therefore,  in  the  long  mn, 
entirely  unsatisfactory. 

We  then  tried  graham  flour,  and  found  that  the 
bread  made  from  it  was  dry  and  straw-like  in  flavor. 

We  found  that  the  common  (Bohemian)  rye  flour  was 
prepared  in  a  similar  way  to  the  common  white  wheaten 
flour,  and  that  it  suffered  from  the  same  disadvantages. 

The  German  whole  rye  "Pumpernickel"  bread  is  pre- 
pared by  sour  fermentation,  and  therefore  tends  to  sour 
the  contents  of  the  digestive  tract. 

We  also  tried  various  whole  grain  unfermented 
"health  breads."  Most  of  these  were  coarse,  unpala- 
table, tough  and  lumpy,  and  we  found  that  our  patients 
as  well  as  ourselves  could  not  use  them  for  some  length 
of  time  without  experiencing  detrimental  effects  on 
the  digestive  organs. 

In  short,  we  found  that  all  the  popular  brands  of 
flour  and  the  various  kinds  of  bread  made  from  them, 
were  lacking  in  some  important  constituents  and  were 
not  as  palatable  and  digestible  as  w^e  desired.  We  then 
proceeded  to  try  the  Golden  Mean,  and  to  combine  the 
best  qualities  of  different  kinds  of  flours  and  meals 
into  one  perfect  palatable  and  wholesome  bread,  and 
we  believe  that  we  have  succeeded  in  solving  the  prob- 
lem. 

The  bread  that  we  have  now  been  using  uninter- 
ruptedly for  many  years  has  satisfied  all  demands  as 
to  pleasantness  of  flavor  and  perfect  digestibility. 

In  making  our  "staff  of  life,"  we  have  wandered 
away  from  the  straight  and  narrow  path  of  simon-pure 
vegetarianism  to  such  an  extent  as  to  leaven  our  bread 
with  real  yeast  or  with  some  of  the  sponge  of  the  last 
baking.     (See  Fermented  Bread,  pages  455  to  459.) 


CEREAL  FOODS  277 

The  bread  is  made  in  the  following  manner:  Take 
Yq  white  flour  for  sponge,  set  with  good  yeast  or  with 
dough  from  last  baking  (kept  sweet  under  ice) ;  when 
this  sponge  has  sufficiently  risen,  work  into  it  care- 
fully Ys  whole  grain  or  graham  flour  and  %  rye  meal 
(not  the  ''bohemian"  rye  flour).  Raise  and  bake 
slowly. 

This  bread  combines  the  lightness  of  white  flour  with 
the  glutenous  qualities  and  organic  salts  of  graham 
bread,  and  the  wliole  rye  imparts  to  it  a  sweet,  rich 
flavor  which  cannot  be  obtained  from  any  other  kind 
of  flour.  The  worst  dyspeptics  seem  to  digest  and 
assimilate  this  bread  better  than  any  other  kind. 
Americans,  who  have  never  been  accustomed  to  coarse, 
-dark  bread,  almost  without  exception  like  it  and  soon 
cannot  do  without  it.  It  happens  continually  that  one 
of  our  patients  takes  home  our  bread  for  his  own  use 
and  within  a  few  weeks  he  reports  that  everybody  in 
the  house  is  eating  it  with  relish  and  satisfaction. 

790.  Dr.  Lindlahr's  Health  Bread 

Groups  St.  P.—M.  F.  S. 

Take  M^  each  of  white  flour,  graham  flour  and  rye 
meal  (not  the  ordinary  Bohemian  rye  flour,  but  the 
coarse  pumpernickel  meal  which  contains  the  whole  of 
the  rye,  including  the  hull).  Make  a  sponge  of  the 
white  flour  in  the  usual  manner,  either  with  good  yeast 
or  with  leavened  dough  from  the  last  baking,  which  has 
been  kept  cold  and  sweet.  When  the  sponge  has  risen 
sufficiently,  work  the  graham  flour  and  rye  meal  into  it. 
Thorough  kneading  is  of  importance.  Let  rise  slowly 
a  second  time,  place  in  pans,  and  bake  slowly  un<-il 
thoroughly  done. 


278  NATURE   CURE   COOK  BOOK 

791.  Bread  That  Will  Last 

Croups  St.  P.— S.  F. 

Make  a  sponge  in  the  evening  by  adding  a  cake  of 
yeast  foam  (which  has  previously  been  softened  in  a 
little  water)  to  a  batter  made  from  1  tablespoon  mashed 
potatoes  and  a  pint  of  water  in  which  the  potato  has 
been  boiled,  with  sufficient  good  bread  flour  stirred  in 
so  that  the  batter  will  drop  from  the  spoon,  not  run  as 
liquid.  Let  this  rise  in  a  warm  place  after  giving  it  a 
good  beating.  (The  lighter  it  gets  the  better.)  Then 
add  a  pint  of  lukewarm  water,  1  teaspoon  salt  and  1 
teaspoon  sugar,  also  a  little  oil.  Knead  Avith  the  hands 
until  when  poked  with  the  finger  tip  it  seems  elastic 
and  does  not  stick  to  the  finger.  Cover  and  let  rise 
over  night  in  a  warm  place,  75  degrees.  In  the  morn- 
ing turn  out  on  a  board  and  pound  with  a  potato 
masher  for  twenty  minutes,  working  in  as  much  flour 
as  possible.  Roll  and  cut  into  two-inch  squares,  place 
on  a  greased  baking  sheet,  such  as  cookies  are  baked 
on,  and  let  rise  until  nearly  twice  their  height,  or  until 
very  light.  Bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven  about  half 
an  hour,  then  leave  in  the  warming  oven  or  about  the 
stove  somewhere  to  dry  out  thoroughly  for  a  day  or 
two.    Keep  in  a  dry  place. 

When  wanted,  roll  over  once  or  twice  in  cold  water, 
drain  carefully,  place  in  a  hot  oven  and  in  a  few  min- 
utes it  will  puif  up  much  larger  and  seem  like  freshly 
baked  bread.  This  will  keep  indefinitely  if  kept  per- 
fectly dry. 

792.  Oatmeal  Bread 

Groups  St.  S.  F.  P. 
2  cups  oatmeal,  3  cups  white  flour,  1  cup  molasses, 
^  cup  broken  nut  meats,  I/2  cup  sugar,  1  yeast  cake. 


CEREAL  FOODS  279 

Mix  well ;  let  raise  until  light,  then  put  in  greased  pans 
and  let  raise  again.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  about  one 
hour.  Be  careful  it  is  thoroughly  done.  This  bread 
does  not  require  kneading,  simply  mix  well. 

793.  XJnfermented  Fruit  Bread 

Groups  St.  S.  F.  P.  M. 

Soak  1  quart  cracked  wheat  in  1  quart  water  over 
night ;  in  the  morning  add  1  cup  dates  and  1  cup  figs, 
cut  fine,  1  cup  nuts,  chopped,  1  cup  apples  cut  into 
cubes,  2  cups  raisins,  i'2  cup  olive  oil,  2  cups  honey 
and  a  little  salt;  knead  thoroughly  and  shape  into 
loaves.  Steam  two  to  three  hours,  then  dry  in  the 
oven  about  thirty  minutes. 

794.  Unfermented  Sweet  Bread 

Groups  F.  P.  St.  S.  M. 

Grind  1  pound  raisins ;  mix  with  1  quart  warm  water, 
V'z  cup  olive  oil,  a  little  salt,  and  enough  ground  wheat 
to  make  a  \<ivy  stiff  batter;  mix  thoroughly  and  let 
stand  over  night;  in  the  morning  add  I/2  cup  chopped 
nuts,  2  well-beaten  eg'gs,  and  a  little  flour;  knead  a  few 
minutes ;  let  stand  about  one  hour.  Bake  in  a  very  slow 
'>ven  two  or  three  hours,  or  steam  and  dry  in  the  oven. 

795.  Bread  Sticks 

Groups  St.  P. 

When  bread  dough  is  ready  to  be  placed  in  the  pans, 
reserve  some  of  it,  roll  into  sticks  about  three-fourths 
of  an  inch  thick  and  four  inches  long.  Drop  them  in 
strong  boiling  salted  water;  boil  two  minutes,  lift  out 
on  pans,  and  bake  immediately  in  hot  oven  until  golden 
brown. 


280  NATURE   CURE   COOK  BOOK 

796.  Whole  Wheat  Bread 

Groups  St.  P.  S.  M. 

Take  2  cups  milk  and  2  cups  boiling  water  into  which 
1  teaspoon  each  of  salt  and  sugar  has  been  stirred. 
When  the  mixture  is  about  blood  warm,  add  V2  yeast 
cake  dissolved  in  warm  water;  stir  in  quart  of  whole 
wheat  flour,  or  enough  to  make  a  good  batter;  beat 
hard  for  five  minutes,  then  add  enough  flour  to  make 
a  dough  that  can  be  handled.  Knead  ten  minutes  on 
floured  board  and  set  to  rise  for  three  hours;  knead 
five  minutes  longer,  make  into  loaves  and  set  them  to 
rise.    When  light,  bake. 

HOT  BBEABS 

797.  Almond  Meal  Gems 

Groups  P.  F.  S. — M. 

Add  to  the  well-beaten  whites  of  2  eggs,  1  teaspoon 
lemon  juice,  10  tablespoons  almond  meal ;  beat  together 
thoroughly,  drop  into  slightly  heated  gem  irons,  and 
bake  fifteen  minutes. 


798.  Bran  Biscuits 

Groups  St.  P.  S.  M.— r. 

To  1^  cups  bran  and  IV2  cups  whole  wheat  flour, 
add  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  a  little  salt  and  sugar, 
and  3  tablespoons  shortening.  Moisten  with  sufficient 
milk  to  form  a  soft  dough.  Roll  out  half  an  inch  thick, 
cut  in  small  biscuits,  and  brush  over  with  melted  but- 
ter.   Bake  about  twenty  minutes  in  a  hot  oven. 


CEREAL  FOODS  281 

799.  Bran  Bread 

Groups  St.  P.  M.  S.  F. 

Boil  for  twenty  minutes  2  cups  bran  moistened  well 
with  cold  water.  "When  luke  warm,  add  2  cups  white 
bread  sponge,  %  cup  molasses,  1  cup  raisins,  2  table- 
spoons melted  butter;  mix,  and  stiffen  with  bran.  Let 
raise,  then  put  into  pans.  Raise  again  and  bake  one 
hour. 

800.  Bran  Gems  (1) 

Groups  St.  P.  F.  S.  M. 

1  cup  sour  milk,  yo  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  hot 
water,  1  tablespoon  sugar,  2  tablespoons  white  flour, 

1  tablespoon  melted  butter,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  bran 
enough  to  make  a  thick  dough.  Bake  in  well-buttered 
gem  pans  until  done. 

801.  Bran  Gems  (2) 

Groups  St.  P.  F.  S.  M. 

1  cup  sweet  milk,  1  teaspo.on  baking  powder,  1  table- 
spoon sugar,  1  tablespoon  melted  butter,  2  tablespoons 
white  flour,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  bran  enough  to  thicken. 
Bake  in  well-buttered  gem  pans. 

802.  Bran  Mufflns  (1) 
Groups  St.  P.  F.  S.  M. 

1  cup  flour,  2  cups  bran,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder, 

2  tablespoons  syrup,  1  well-beaten  egg,  a  little  salt,  and 
milk  enough  to  make  the  batter  soft.  Beat  together 
until  well  mixed. 


282  NATURE   CURE   COOK  BOOK 

803.  Bran  Muffins  (2) 

Groups  St.  P.  F.  M.  S. 

2  cups  bran,  1  cup  white  flour,  1  cup  sour  milk,  a 
pinch  of  soda  dissolved  in  a  little  hot  water,  1  table- 
spoon molasses,  2  tablespoons  melted  butter.  Mix  in- 
gredients well  and  fill  into  muffin  pans.  Bake  fifteen 
minutes. 

804.  Brown  Bread  Muffins 

Groups  St.  P.  F.  3VL 

Break  into  bits  sufficient  stale  whole  wheat  bread 
to  fill  a  quart  measure.  Cover  with  1  pint  cold  milk 
and  soak  until  soft.  Beat  to  a  smooth  paste,  add  the 
well-beaten  yolks  of  3  eggs,  1  tablespoon  melted  but- 
ter, and  %  cup  graham  flour  mixed  with  1  teaspoon 
baking  powder;  fold  in  the  well-beaten  whites  of  the 
eggs.  Bake  in  muffin  pans  twenty  minutes  in  a  quick 
oven. 

805.  Com  Bread 

Groups  St.  P.  F.  M.  S. 

1  cup  com  meal,  1  cup  flour,  1  cup  sour  milk,  i/^  cup 
brown  sugar,  1  tablespoon  melted  butter,  i^  teaspoon 
soda  dissolved  in  a  little  hot  water,  2  eggs.  Sift  dry 
ingredients;  separate  the  eggs,  adding  yolks  to  the 
mixture;  just  before  baking,  add  the  stiffly-beaten 
whites. 

806.  Cream  Bolls 

Groups  St.  P.  F.  IS. 

Put  2  cups  cold  water  into  a  bowl ;  beat  with  an  egg 
beater  until  it  bubbles,  then  add  enough  graham  flour 


CEREAL  FOODS  283 

to  make  a  very  stiff  dough ;  add  a  little  salt  and  2  well- 
beaten  eggs;  knead  thoroughly  and  shape  into  rolls; 
set  in  coo]  place  two  hours,  then  bake.  For  variety, 
nuts  or  raisins  may  be  added. 


807.  Graham  or  Bran  Biscuits 

Groups  St.  P.  F.  M.  S. 

4  cups  graham  flour,  or  2  cups  bran  and  1  cup  flour, 
2  cups  buttermilk,  1  teaspoon  salt,  V2  teaspoon  baking 
soda,  14  cup  brown  sugar,  14  cup  boiling  water,  1  table- 
spoon melted  butter  and  1  egg;  dissolve  the  soda  in  hot 
water,  add  to  the  buttermilk,  then  add  flour,  butter, 
salt,  sugar  and  egg.    Beat  well  and  bake. 

808.  Pop-Overs 

Groups  P.  St.  F.— S.  M. 

1  cup  milk,  1  egg,  1  cup  flour,  pinch  of  salt;  beat 

ingredients  thoroughly  for  three  minutes  with  an  egg- 
beater;  put  in  hot  buttered  muffin  pans  and  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  half  an  hour. 


LEGUMINOUS  POODS 

Key  to  reference  letters:  St.  (Starches).  S.  (Sugars). 
F.  (Fats).    P.  (Proteids).     M.  (Mineral  Elements). 

The  principal  representatives  of  this  class  of  foods 
are  peas,  beans  and  lentils.  They  are  also  called  pulses. 
These  foods  are  exceedingly  rich  in  proteid  and  starchy 
materials.  "While  the  costliest  beefsteak  contains  from 
70  to  75  per  cent  of  water,  and  very  unclean  water  at 
that,  the  pulses  contain  only  about  10  per  cent  water, 
with  all  the  rest  solid  nourishment.  While  meat  con- 
tains about  20  per  cent  proteid,  the  pulses  contain  from 
20  to  25  per  cent  proteid  and  in  addition  to  that  from 
50  to  54  per  cent  of  starches. 

It  is  the  very  wealth  of  these  foods  in  the  negative, 
acid-forming  proteid  and  starchy  elements,  which,  like 
the  cereals,  make  them  at  the  same  time,  next  to  meat, 
the  greatest  of  danger  foods. 

The  proteid  materials  of  the  pulses  are  made  up  of 
six  elements,  carbon,  oxygen,  hydrogen,  nitrogen,  phos- 
phorus and  sulphur.  In  the  digestion  and  other  vital 
processes  in  the  system  these  food  materials  are  broken 
down,  and  the  elements  composing  them  form  many 
kinds  of  poisonous  acids,  alkaloids  and  ptomaines. 

On  the  other  hand  these  foods  are  very  poor  in  the 
acid  binding  and  eliminating  positive  mineral  elements. 
Almost  all  diseases  arising  in  the  human  organism  are 
caused  originally  by  the  accumulation  of  these  morbid 
materials. 

The  effect  of  these  poisons  has  been  described  in  the 

284 


LEGUMINOUS  POODS  285 

chapter  entitled  "Acid  Diseases,"  in  "Nature  Cure," 
and  in  Part  II  of  this  volume. 

Young  peas  and  beans,  however,  as  long  as  they  are 
in  the  pulpy,  juicy  stage,  are  low  in  proteid  and 
starchy  materials,  but  rich  in  sugar  and  the  positive 
alkaline  mineral  elements.  As  the  ripening  process 
proceeds,  a  great  chemical  change  takes  place, — a  con- 
siderable percentage  of  the  mineral  elements  recede 
into  the  leaves  and  stalks  of  the  plant,  while  the  seed 
greatly  increases  in  protein  and  starchy  elements. 
Therefore,  sweet,  young,  juicy  peas  and  beans  belong 
to  Group  V  (mineral  group),  while  the  ripe  and  hard- 
ened pulses  belong  to  Groups  I  (starches)  and  IV  (pro- 
teids). 

In  view  of  the  fact  that  the  pulses  and  cereals  possess 
about  three  times  the  amount  of  nourishing  materials 
in  comparison  to  meat,  the  popular  belief  in  the  extraor- 
dinary nourishing  qualities  of  meat  seems  pure  super- 
stition. 

As  stated  before,  the  danger  in  the  cereals  and  legu- 
minous foods  lies  in  their  being  too  rich  in  the  proteid 
and  starchy  elements.  This  becomes  more  apparent 
when  we  compare  these  food  classes  with  our  standard 
food,  the  milk.  We  find  that  milk,  which  nature  pro- 
vides as  food  for  the  newborn  and  growing  animal, 
contains  only  4  per  cent  of  proteid  and  5  per  cent  of 
sugar,  while  the  pulses  contain  about  25  per  cent  of 
proteid  and  60  per  cent  of  starches.  Still  we  would 
expect  that  the  young  and  growing  animal  and  human 
bodies  need  much  more  of  the  cell  and  tissue  building 
proteid  than  the  full-grown  and  completed  adult  body. 

On  account  of  their  great  richness  in  the  negative, 
acid-forming  proteid  and  starchy  materials,  the  pulses 
and  cereals  must  always  be  combined  with  the  foods 


286  NATURE   CURE   COOK   BOOK 

of  the  fifth  (mineral)  group,  which  are  low  in  proteids 
and  starches  and  run  comparatively  high  in  the  posi- 
tive mineral  elements,  which  neutralize  and  eliminate 
the  poisonous  acids  and  alkaloids  produced  by  the  nega- 
tive acid-forming  foods. 

Do  not  use  vinegar  with  the  pulses;  always  use 
lemon  juice.  The  latter  is  rich  in  the  positive  mineral 
elements,  while  vinegar  is  entirely  devoid  of  them,  and 
being  a  strong  antiseptic,  retards  the  digestion  of  the 
already  heavy  pulses. 

NUTS 

Nuts  are  the  richest  of  all  foods.  They  contain  only 
about  5  per  cent  water,  while  the  highly  priced  meats 
contain  from  70  to  75  per  cent  water.  Nuts  contain 
about  17  per  cent  of  proteid,  many  times  more  than 
Nature's  standard  in  the  milk  (4  per  cent),  and  in  addi- 
tion to  this  from  50  to  75  per  cent  of  fat.  For  these 
reasons  nuts  should  be  used  sparingly  only,  and  always 
in  connection  with  foods  of  the  fifth  group. 

Considering  the  great  richness  of  the  nuts,  in  pro- 
teids and  fats,  it  is  no  wonder  that  people  complain 
about  "nuts  not  agreeing  with  them,"  especially  when 
eating  a  large  amomit  of  them  after  a  heavy  meal  of 
meats  and  other  foods.  In  the  natural  diet,  nuts,  pulses 
and  cereals  are  used  in  place  of  meat,  not  with  meat. 

The  cocoanut  differs  from  other  nuts  in  that  it  con- 
tains less  fats  and  proteids  and  more  organic  salts. 
The  meat  of  the  cocoanut,  together  with  its  milk,  comes 
nearer  to  the  chemical  composition  of  human  milk  than 
any  food  product  in  existence. 

Some  vegetarians  allow  peanuts  a  prominent  place  in 
their  diet.  But  this  is  a  mistake,  since  peanuts  con- 
tain a  higher  percentage  of  proteid  (33  per  cent)  than 


.     LEGUMINOUS   POODS  287 

almost  any  other  article  of  food,  and  also  considerable 
xantheins,  which  have  the  same  deleterious  effects  upon 
the  system  as  an  excess  of  uric  acid. 

Pignolia  or  Pine  nuts,  though  very  rich  in  proteids 
and  fats,  seem  to  be  more  easily  digestible  than  most 
other  nuts.  We  have  always  found  them  a  most  valu- 
able food  for  people  with  weak  digestion. 

PEAS,  BEANS  AND  LENTILS 

809.  Baked  Beans  with  Tomatoes 

Groups  St.  P.  M.—S. 

Soak  1  quart  of  navy  beans  over  night,  cover  with 
fresh,  cold  water  and  cook  one  hour.  Place  in  a  stone 
crock,  add  3  cups  tomatoes,  2  tablespoons  sugar,  2  tea- 
spoons onion  juice,  seasoning  to  taste,  and  place  in  a 
slow  oven.  Cover  and  bake  four  or  five  hours,  then 
remove  cover  and  brown. 

810.  Lima  Beans 

Groups  St.  P. — M. 

Wash  lima  beans  and  let  soak  over  night.  Cook  in 
enough  water  to  cover  until  tender;  add  butter,  salt, 
and  chopped  parsley. 

811.  Navy  Beans  and  Prunes 

Groups  St.  P.  M.— F. 

Wash  and  soak  1  quart  of  navy  beans  over  night. 
Cook  in  water  enough  to  cover  for  about  two  hours, 
then  add  2  cups  prunes  which  have  been  soaked  over 
night,  and  stoned.  Let  cook  until  tender,  season,  add 
the  juice  of  1  lemon  and  a  generous  piece  of  butter. 


288  gATUBE  CURE  COOK  BOOK 

812«  Mexican  Chili 

Groups  St.  P.  M.— F. 

Soak  1  pint  of  Mexican  beans  over  night;  put  on  to 
cook  with  sufficient  cold  water  to  cover.  When  about 
half  done  add  2  green  peppers,  chopped  fine,  2  Spanish 
onions,  and  6  large  tomatoes.  Cook  slowly  until  ten- 
der ;  season  and  add  a  generous  piece  of  butter. 

813.  Lentil  Croquettes 

Groups  St.  P.  M.— F. 

Eun  cooked  lentils  through  a  vegetable  grinder ;  add 
1  chopped  Spanish  onion,  y^  grated  nutmeg,  ^  cup 
cream,  seasoning,  2  eggs,  and  cracker  crumbs  to  make 
the  right  consistency  j  shape  into  croquettes  and  fry  in 
butter. 

814.  Lentil  Souffle 

Groups  St.  P.— M. 

Make  a  thick  lentil  puree ;  to  1  cup  of  puree  add  the 
stifflj'-beaten  whites  of  2  eggs ;  bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
about  half  an  hour  j  serve  at  once. 


EICE,  MACARONI,  SPAGHETTI 

Key  to  reference  letters:  St.  (Starches).  S.  (Sugar*). 
F.  (Fats).    P.  (Proteids).     M.  (Mineral  Elements). 

To  Cook  Rice 

In  the  following  recipes  we  give  different  methods 
of  boiling  rice.  Upon  the  proper  cooking  of  rice  de- 
pends its  food  value  and  its  digestibility. 

If  it  can  be  procured,  the  natui'al  unpolished  rice 
should  be  used  instead  of  the  polished  and  artificially 
bleached  product  of  commerce. 

Rice  should  be  well  washed  in  several  waters  and 
rubbed  between  the  hands  or  between  two  clean  towels 
to  remove  the  coating  of  talcum  found  upon  it  in  nearly 
every  instance. 

Unpolished  rice  contains  only  about  seven  parts  per 
thousand  of  the  positive  mineral  elements.  The  pol- 
ished rice  has  been  robbed  almost  entirely  of  its  mineral 
elements  and  of  the  vitamines. 

815.  Boiled  Rice  (1) 

Groups  St.  P. 

To  1  cup  rice  add  3  cups  cold  water  and  salt  to 
taste ;  let  come  to  boiling  gradually ;  boil  hard  for  about 
five  minutes,  then  keep  on  an  asbestos  mat  over  a  low 
flame,  with  cover  partly  removed,  until  the  water  has 
steamed  off.  This  will  leave  the  rice  dry  and  well- 
cooked. 

289 


290  NATURE   CUKK   COOK   aooK 

816.  Boiled  Rice  (2) 

Groups  St  P. 

Heat  1  quart  of  water  to  boiling,  add  gradually  1 
cup  rice;  stir  with  a  fork  to  prevent  breaking  the  ker- 
nels. Let  boil  five  minutes,  then  place  in  a  double 
boiler,  cover,  and  let  cook  forty-five  minutes.  Toward 
the  last  remove  the  cover  and  allow  the  steam  to  es- 
cape. 

817.  Boiled  Rice  (3) 

Groups  St.  P. 

To  2  cups  slightly  salted  boifing  water  add  i^  cup 
rice;  boil  twenty  minutes,  then  let  cook  in  a  double 
boiler  one  to  two  hours,  keeping  the  water  in  the  lower 
vessel  boiling  all  the  time.  If  the  rice  becomes  too  dry, 
add  a  little  hot  water. 

818.  Rice  Cooked  in  Kilk 

Groups  St.  P.  S.  F.  ML 

Pour  1  cup  boiling  milk  over  1  cup  rice,  add  a  little 
salt,  cook  directly  over  the  fire  for  one  minute,  then 
place  in  a  pan  half  filled  with  boiling  water  and  cook 
about  thirty  minutes  longer,  or  until  all  the  milk  has 
been  absorbed. 

Note: — Served  with  stewed  fruit,  or  with  brown 
sugar  and  butter  and  a  sprinkling  of  cinnamon,  this  is 
a  delicious  and  nutritious  dish  especially  relished  by 
children. 

819.  Boiled  Rice,  Chinese  Style 

Groups  St.  P. 

Throw  rice  into  a  large  kettle  filled  with  rapidly 
boiUng  water,  a  few  grains  at  a  time,  so  as  not  to  check 


EICE,  (MACARONI,   SPAGHETTI  291 

the  boiling.  Boil  hard  for  twenty  minutes,  drain  off 
the  water,  then  let  dry  on  the  back  of  the  stove,  or  in 
the  oven. 

820.  Boiled  Rice,  Hindoo  Style 

Groups  St.  P.— M. 

Pick  over  unpolished  rice,  add  it  slowly  to  rapidly 
boiling  water.  When  soft,  put  into  a  colander,  pour 
cold  water  over,  drain,  and  reheat  the  rice  in  the  oven 
before  serving.  Prepared  in  this  maimer  every  grain 
of  rice  will  be  separate. 

821.  Curried  Rice  Timbales 

Groups  St.  P.— F.  M. 

Cook  1  cup  rice  in  double  boiler  with  4  cups  water, 
a  pinch  of  salt,  and  a  little  butter;  when  done,  add  1 
teaspoon  curry  powder;  bake  in  buttered  timbale  molds. 

822.  Empress  Rice 
Groups  St.  P.  P.  S.  M. 

"Wash  1  cup  rice  and  boil  in  1  quart  milk  until  ten- 
der ;  then  add  I/2  an  ounce  butter,  salt  to  taste,  and  set 
aside  to  cool.  Butter  a  baking  dish,  put  in  a  layer  of 
rice,  sprinkle  with  grated  cheese  and  a  little  paprika, 
then  more  rice  and  seasoning  until  the  dish  is  filled. 
Pour  1  cup  milk  over,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
twenty  minutes. 

823.  Italian  Rice 
Groups  St.  P.  M. 

Put  1  layer  of  twenty-minute  rice  into  a  baking  dish 
and  sprinkle  with  chopped  onion  and  green  peppers; 
cover  with  sliced  tomatoes;  then  add  another  layer  of 


292  NATURE  CURE  COOK  BOOK 

rice  and  so  on  until  the  dish  is  filled.  Cover  the  top 
with  grated  Parmesan  cheese.  Pour  1  cup  of  boiling 
water  over  this,  and  bake  about  twenty  minutes. 

824.  Jajnbalaya 

Groups  M.  St.  P.— F. 

Into  a  battered  baking  dish  put  1  cup  of  unpolished 
rice,  2  onions,  2  red  sweet  peppers,  chopped  fine,  1  quart 
tomatoes  and  1  cup  mushrooms,  cut  into  dice ;  mix  well, 
and  season  with  salt  and  a  little  mace.  Put  bits  of  but- 
ter on  top,  pour  1  pint  of  water  over  the  whole,  and 
bake  slowly  about  two  hours,  adding  a  little  hot  water 
from  time  to  time,  as  required. 

825.  Milk  Rice 

Groups  St.  F.  S.  P.  M. 

Add  1  cup  rice  to  1  pint  of  boiling  milk.  Let  cook  in 
a  double  boiler  from  half  an  hour  to  an  hour.  Add  a 
small  lump  of  butter. 

826.  Rice  Croquettes  (1) 
Groups  St.  F.  P.— S.  M. 

3  cups  boiled  rice,  3  eggs,  %  cup  milk,  a  heaping 
teaspoon  butter,  and  a  few  cracker  crumbs;  season  to 
taste,  mix  well,  mold  into  croquettes,  dip  in  cracker 
crumbs,  then  in  beaten  eggs,  again  in  cracker  crumbs, 
and  fry  a  golden  brown  in  butter  and  oil. 

827.  Rice  Croquettes  (2) 

Groups  St.  F.  P.  M. 

Mis  in  the  order  given:  2  cups  cold  boiled  rice,  2 
tablespoons  milk,  2  eggs,  1  dessertspoon  butter,  and  a 


RICE,   MACARONI,    SPAGHETTI  293 

little  chopped  parsley.  Shape  into  croquettes,  roll  in 
beaten  egg  and  bread  crumbs,  and  fry  in  equal  parts  of 
butter  and  olive  oil. 

828.  Rice  Fritters 

Groups  St.  F.  P.— M.  S. 

Boil  1  cup  of  rice  in  slightly  salted  water  about  fif- 
teen minutes,  drain  ofi!  the  water  (unless  it  has  been 
absorbed) ;  add  2  cups  milk,  and  cook  in  a  double  boiler 
until  the  rice  is  very  soft.  Add  2  well-beaten  eggs,  2 
tablespoons  butter,  and  1  tablespoon  grated  onion.  If 
necessary,  thicken  with  bread  crumbs.  Put  large  spoon- 
fuls on  a  well-greased  griddle,  fry  crisp  and  brown  on 
both  sides.    Serve  with  tomato  sauce. 

829.  Bice  and  Nut  Rarebit 

Groups  F.  P.  St  S.— M. 

Melt  2  tablespoons  of  butter;  add  2  tablespoons  flour 
and  2  cups  milk;  stir  constantly;  when  smooth  and 
creamy  add  1  cup  grated  cheese ;  stir  until  it  is  melted ; 
add  1  cup  of  cooked  rice,  %  cup  chopped  nut  meats, 
and  seasoning ;  serve  on  hot  buttered  toast. 

830.  Rice  Molds  (for  dessert) 

Groups  S.  F.  P.  St.— M. 

Wash  thoroughly  2  ounces  rice,  simmer  in  a  double 
boiler  with  3  cups  milk,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  6  lumps 
sugar,  until  the  rice  is  soft  and  creamy  and  the  milk 
entirely  absorbed.  Rub  through  a  wire  sieve,  and  fill 
molds,  first  rinsing  them  in  cold  water. 

Candied  cherries  minced  fine,  chopped  nuts,  dates, 
figs,  raisins,  etc.,  may  be  mixed  with  the  rice  before  it 


294  NATURE  CURE  COOK  BOOK 

is  put  into  the  molds.    Serve  with  cream,  fruit  sauce, 
or  fresh  fruit. 

831.  Rice  and  Sultana  Raisin  Croquettes 

Groups  F.  S.  St.  M.  P. 

"Wash  thoroughly  1  cup  sultana  raisins,  pick  off  the 
stems,  cook  with  1  cup  of  blanched  rice  in  3  cups  of 
milk  until  the  rice  is  soft  (about  thirty  minutes),  add- 
ing more  milk  if  necessary.  When  done,  add  1  level 
teaspoon  of  salt.  Take  from  the  fire,  mix  well  with  the 
beaten  yolks  of  2  eggs  and  I/4  cup  each  of  butter  and 
sugar.  If  too  thin  to  shape  into  croquettes,  add  cold 
boiled  rice  or  sifted  bread  crumbs.  Set  aside  to  cool, 
then  form  into  croquettes  or  balls,  and  proceed  accord- 
ing to  general  directions. 

Note: — Rice  is  blanched  by  pouring  boiling  water 
over,  then  draining. 

832.  Risotto 
Groups  St.  F.  P.  SI 

To  14  pound  of  butter  add  1  chopped  onion;  fry  until 
the  onion  is  a  yellow  color;  add  1  quart  of  twenty- 
minute  rice,  and  stir  until  thoroughly  mixed;  add  ^2 
cup  of  grated  cheese  and  a  little  nutmeg;  put  into  a 
buttered  baking  dish  and  almost  cover  with  well-sea- 
soned soup  stock.    Bake  about  twenty  minutes. 

833.  Spanish  Rice 
Groups  M.  St.  P. 

2  cups  washed  rice,  4  cups  strained  tomato,  4  cups 
hot  water,  4  small  onions,  4  sweet  peppers,  chopped 
fine ;  add  salt  to  taste,  and  cook  in  a  double  boiler  until 
tender. 


RICE,  MACARONI,   SPAGHETTI  295 

834.  Tomatoes  and  Rice 

Groups  M.  St.  P.  P. 

Put  alternate  layers  of  twenty-minute  rice  and  sliced 
tomatoes  in  a  baking  dish  and  cover  with  strained  and 
seasoned  tomato  pulp;  scatter  bread  crumbs  over  the 
top,  moisten  with  butter,  and  bake  half  an  hour. 

835.  Turkish  Pilaf 

Groups  M.  St.  P.— P. 

1  cup  vegetable  stock,  1  cup  tomatoes,  stewed  and 
strained,  a  little  minced  onion  and  sweet  pepper;  sea- 
son, and  heat  to  boiling.  Add  1  cup  rice,  boil  five  min- 
utes, then  cook  all  in  a  double  boiler  until  rice  is  soft. 
Stir  in  3  tablespoons  butter  with  a  fork  and  keep  un- 
covered for  a  few  minutes  to  let  some  of  the  moisture 
escape. 

Note : — Rice  prepared  in  this  manner  may  be  served 
as  a  border  for  scrambled  eggs  or  stewed  mushrooms. 

836.  Baked  Macaroni  with  Tomato  Sauce 

Groups  St.  M.  P.  P. 

Boil  y^  pound  macaroni;  put  a  layer  into  a  buttered 
baking  dish  and  cover  with  tomato  sauce.  Repeat, 
making  alternate  layers  until  the  dish  is  filled,  having 
sauce  on  top.  Sprinkle  thickly  with  bread  crumbs  fried 
in  butter.  Place  in  oven  until  thoroughly  heated  and 
nicely  browned  on  top. 

837.  Boiled  Macaroni  with  Sauce 

Groups  St.  P.  M. 

Break  macaroni  into  two-inch  pieces,  drop  into  plenty 
of  rapidly  boiling,  salted  water;  let  boil  about  thirty 


296  NATURE   CURE   COOK   BOOK 

minutes,  drain  off  the  water  and  plunge  in  cold  water 
to  prevent  sticking  together.  Pour  over  hot  white  or 
tomato  sauce,  and  stir  gently  over  the  fire  until  thor- 
oughly reheated. 

838.  Creamed  Macaroni 

Groups  St.  P.  F.— M.  S. 

Boil  macaroni  thirty  minutes,  drain,  chop  coarsely, 
and  stew  fifteen  minutes  with  milk  to  barely  cover, 
being  careful  to  prevent  scorching.  Add  a  little  salt, 
white  sauce,  and,  if  desired,  grated  cheese. 

839.  Macaroni  with  Cheese 

Groups  St.  P.  F. 

Boil  1  pound  of  macaroni^  fill  a  well-buttered  baking 
dish  with  about  half  the  quantity  of  macaroni,  dust 
with  salt,  cover  thickly  with  grated  cheese,  add  the 
remainder  of  the  macaroni  and  another  generous  layer 
of  cheese.  Pour  over  1  cup  of  white  sauce,  dot  with  bits 
of  butter,  and  bake  about  thirty  minutes. 

840.  Macaroni  in  Tomato  Shells 

Groups  M.  F.  P.  St.— S. 

Break  2  ounces  of  macaroni  into  short  lengths,  cook 
rapidly  in  boiling  water  about  twenty  minutes,  then 
drain.  Rub  the  yolks  of  2  hard-boiled  eggs  to  a  paste 
and  add  gradually  5  tablespoons  cream.  Heat  2  table- 
spoons butter,  sift  in  1  tablespoon  flour  and  stir  in  a 
double  boiler  until  perfectly  blended;  add  the  egg, 
cream,  and  i^  cup  milk,  stirring  until  thick  and  creamy, 
then  add  1  teaspoon  salt  and  a  dash  of  paprika.  Pour 
this  sauce  over  the  macaroni  and  add  2  tablespoons 
grated  cheese. 


EICE,   MACARONI,   SPAGHETTI  297 

Cut  a  phig  from  the  stem  end  of  firm,  ripe  tomatoes, 
scoop  out  the  centers  carefully,  arrange  in  a  baking 
'dish,  fill  centers  with  macaroni,  cover  with  fine  bread 
crumbs  and  bake  twenty  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 
Serve  on  toast  with  sauce  made  from  the  tomato  pulp. 

841.  Macaroni  with  Tomato 

Groups  St.  P.  M.  F. 
Boil  1  pound  of  macaroni  until  tender ;  make  a  cream 
sauce  with  1  cup  milk  and  1  tablespoon  flour;  add  a 
little  grated  cheese,  seasoning,  and  1  large  tomato,  cut 
in  pieces;  mix,  put  into  a  buttered  baking  dish,  dot 
with  butter,  and  bake  half  an  hour. 

-842.  Macaroni  Quenelles 

Groups  St.  F.  P.— S.  M. 
Cut  1  cup  cooked  macaroni  in  small  pieces;  bring  1 
cup  milk  to  the  boiling  point,  pour  over  1  cup  bread 
crumbs;  add  macaroni,  2  tablespoons  butter,  2  eggs, 
a  little  chopped  parsley,  and  seasoning;  cover  and  steam 
one  hour ;  serve  with  cream  sauce. 

843.  Baked  Noodles 
Groups  St.  P.  P.— S.  M. 

After  the  noodles  are  pulled  and  drawn,  place  in  a 
buttered  baking  dish,  dot  with  butter,  then  pour  enough 
milk  over  to  just  show  through;  bake  until  a  creamy 
consistency,  and  slightly  browned. 

844.  Noodles  and  Prunes 

Groups  St.  P.  S.  M. 
Noodles  boiled  and  drained,  then  slightly  browned  in 
butter,  are  nice  served  with  prune  sauce. 


298  NATURE  CURE   COOK  BOOK 

845.  Fried  Spaghetti 

Groups  St.  P.  F. 

Break  spaghetti  into  small  pieces,  cook  in  rapidly 
boiling  salted  water  about  thirty  minutes;  drain;  fry 
in  butter  to  a  delicate  brown.  Serve  sprinkled  with 
sifted  bread  crumbs  browned  in  butter. 

846.  Italian  Spaghetti 

Groups  St.  P.  M.— F. 

Put  spaghetti  into  salted  boiling  water  without  break- 
ing ;  boil  about  forty  minutes ;  put  into  a  buttered  bak- 
ing dish,  sprinkle  with  chopped  onion  and  green  pep- 
per; cover  with  seasoned  tomato  juice;  grate  Parmesan 
cheese  over  the  top,  and  bake. 

847.  Spaghetti,  Italian  Style 

Groups  St.  P.  F.  M. 

Put  unbroken  spaghetti  in  a  fish  kettle  or  long  bak- 
ing pan  in  which  there  is  boiling  salted  water;  cook 
until  tender,  drain  carefully,  and  arrange  on  a  heated 
platter.    Cover  with  a  sauce  made  as  follows : 

Heat  2  tablespoons  butter,  blend  with  it  1  tablespoon 
flour;  when  smooth  add  1  pint  tomato  juice  and  about 
1  dessertspoon  onion  juice;  season,  and  cook,  with 
steady  stirring,  until  all  the  ingredients  are  well 
blended.  Just  before  taking  from  the  fire  add  4  table- 
spoons Parmesan  cheese.  "When  this  has  melted,  pour 
the  sauce  over  spaghetti,  and  serve  at  once. 


DAIRY  PRODUCTS 

Key  to  reference  letters:  St.  (Starches).  S.  (Sugars). 
r.  (Fats).    P.  (Proteids),    M.  (Mineral  Elements). 

There  is  something  in  animal  food  which  we  cannot 
secure  from  purely  vegetable  food, — and  that  is  the 
animal  (magnetic)  life  element,  or,  as  we  usually  call 
it,  the  animal  magnetism.  Each  kingdom  in  nature  is 
animated  and  controlled  by  a  higher  form,  or  element, 
of  the  great  life  force.  This  aspect  of  the  diet  ques- 
tion, which  is  entirely  left  out  of  consideration  by  most 
of  our  vegetarian  friends,  is  fully  treated  in  Part  II 
of  this  volume. 

However,  in  order  to  secure  the  benefit  of  the  animal 
magnetism  contained  in  animal  foods,  we  do  not  have 
to  eat  meat  contaminated  with  all  the  impurities  of  the 
animal  carcass.  We  can  secure  all  we  need  of  this  ani- 
mal life  element  in  the  dairy  products  in  the  best  possi- 
ble and  purest  form. 

Flesh  foods  we  have  to  boil,  bake,  fry  and  spice 
heavily  in  order  to  disguise  the  unpleasant  taste  and 
odor  of  the  dead  flesh,  and  thereby  much  of  the  animal 
magnetism  is  lost.  All  the  dairy  products  we  can  eat 
raw,  and  in  that  way  derive  the  full  benefit  of  the 
animal  magnetism  which  they  contain.  Therefore  the 
liberal  use  of  the  dairy  products  is  of  especial  impor- 
tance in  the  cases  of  weak,  negative  persons  who  have 
become  so  depleted  in  nerve  force  that  they  are  not 
able  to  liberate  and  generate  their  own  animal  mag- 
netism in  sufficient  quantities. 

299 


300  NATURE    CURE    COOK    BOOK 

Milk 

Milk  is  the  one  perfectly  normal  and  therefore  stand- 
ard food  in  Nature.  It  contains  all  the  elements  (page 
403)  in  exactly  the  right  proportion  which  the  new- 
bom  and  growing  animal  or  infant  needs  for  all  the 
requirements  of  its  rapidly  developing  body.  These 
statements  bring  forth  the  question,  ''Why  then  not 
live  on  milk  entirely?"  We  have  answered  this  ques- 
tion in  "Nature  Cure,"  and  also  outlined  a  milk  and 
fruit  diet  which  we  have  found  most  beneficial  in  our 
work. 

For  the  benefit  of  those  who  do  not  possess  Volume  1 
of  this  series  we  will  quote  from  the  paragraphs  under 
the  subtitle  **A  Word  About  the  Milk  Diet,"  pages  285 
to  287 : 

"While  milk  is  the  natural  food  for  the  new-born 
and  growing  infant  it  is  not  natural  for  the  adult.  The 
digestive  apparatus  of  the  infant  is  especially  adapted 
to  the  digestion  of  milk,  while  that  of  the  adult  re- 
quires more  solid  and  bulky  food. 

"Milk  is  a  very  beneficial  article  of  diet  in  all  acid 
diseases,  because  it  contains  comparatively  low  per- 
centages of  carbohydrates  and  proteids  and  large 
amounts  of  organic  salts. 

"However,  not  everybody  can  use  milk  as  a  food  or 
medicine.  In  many  instances  it  causes  biliousness,  fer- 
mentation and  constipation. 

"In  cases  where  it  is  easily  digested,  a  straight  milk 
diet  often  proves  very  beneficial.  As  a  rule,  however, 
it  is  better  to  take  fruits  or  vegetable  salads  with  the 
milk. 

' '  Directly  with  milk  may  be  taken  any  sweetish,  alka- 
line fruits,  such  as  melons,  sweet  pears,  etc.,  or  the 


DAIRY   PRODUCTS  301 

dried  fruits,  such  as  prunes,  dates,  figs  and  raisins,  also 
vegetable  salads.  With  the  latter,  if  taken  together 
with  milk,  little  or  no  lemon  juice  should  be  used. 

**A11  acid  and  subacid  fruits  should  be  taken  between 
the  milk-meals. 

"A  patient  on  a  milk-diet  may  take  from  one  to  five 
quarts  of  milk  daily,  according  to  his  capacity  to  digest 
it.  This  quantity  may  be  distributed  over  the  day  after 
the  following  plan : 

"Breakfast:  One  to  three  pints  of  milk,  sipped 
slowly,  with  any  of  the  sweetisli,  alkaline  fruits  men- 
tioned above,  or  with  vegetable  salads  composed  of  let- 
tuce, celery,  raw  cabbage  slaw,  water  cress,  green 
onions,  radishes,  carrots,  etc. 

"10  A.  M. :  Grape  fruit,  oranges,  peaches,  apples, 
apricots,  berries,  grapes,  or  other  acid  and  subacid 
fruits. 

' '  Luncheon :    The  same  as  breakfast. 

"3  P.  M. :    The  same  as  10  A.  M. 

* ' Supper :     The  same  as  breakfast. 

"An  orange  or  apple  may  be  taken  before  retiring. 

"When  it  is  advisable  to  take  a  greater  variety  of 
food  together  with  large  quantities  of  milk,  good  whole 
grain  bread  and  butter,  cream,  honey,  cooked  vege- 
tables, moderate  amounts  of  potatoes  and  cereals  may 
be  added  to  the  dietary. 

Buttermilk 

"Buttermilk  is  an  excellent  food  for  those  with  whom 
it  agrees.  In  many  instances  a  straight  buttermilk  diet 
for  a  certain  period  will  prove  very  beneficial.  This  is 
especially  true  in  all  forms  of  uric  acid  diseases. '  * 


302  NATURE   CURE    COOK   BOOK 

Sour  Milk 

Sour  milk  or  clabber  also  has  excellent  medicinal 
qualities,  and  may  be  taken  freely  by  those  with  whom 
it  agrees.  Sour  milk  prepared  in  the  following  man- 
ner can  be  taken  by  many  who  cannot  digest  milk  or 
buttermilk:  Let  the  milk,  with  full  cream,  stand  in  a 
covered  glass  jar  in  the  sun  until  it  coagulates,  but 
does  not  completely  separate  into  curds  and  whey.  Turn 
out  into  a  bowl  and  whip  with  an  egg  beater  until  it  is 
of  a  creamy  consistency.  Taken  with  a  few  dates  this 
forms  a  most  palatable  and  nourishing  meal- 
Cream  and  Butter 

Cream  and  butter  contain  only  the  fat  of  the  milk 
which  rises  to  the  top  on  account  of  its  comparative 
lightness.  The  valuable  protein  materials  and  mineral 
salts  remain  in  the  skimmed  milk.  The  latter  is  there- 
fore not  to  be  despised  for  its  food  values. 

In  fact  its  medicinal  values  are  very  much  greater 
than  that  of  cream  or  butter.  We  often  find  that  our 
patients  digest  the  skimmed  milk  much  better  than  the 
full  milk.  Butter  is  not  improved  by  the  large  amount 
of  inorganic  salt  which  it  usually  contains.  The  large 
amount  of  coloring  matter  is  also  often  detrimental  to 
health.  The  best  butter  from  a  hygienic  standpoint 
is  the  sweet,  unsalted  and  uncolored  butter. 

Baby  Feeding 

The  practice  of  feeding  babies  on  cream  dilute  with 
barley  water  mixed  with  inorganic  mineral  lime  water, 
baking  soda,  milk  sugar  or  table  salt  is  positively  harm- 
ful and  preposterous  in  the  face  of  the  fact  that  human 
or  cow's  milk  contains  all  the  elements  of  nutrition  in 


DAIRY    PRODUCTS  303 

exactly  the  right  proportion  and  the  valuable  mineral 
salts  in  the  live-organic  form  in  which  nature  intends 
them  to  serve  as  foods  for  animals  and  human  beings. 
The  cream  and  barley  water  are  practically  devoid  of 
these  all-important  mineral  elements,  and  the  inorganic 
substitutes  act  more  as  poisons  to  the  system  than  as 
wholesome  foods. 

For  the  foregoing  reasons  good  cow's  milk  is  the 
only  natural  substitute  for  human  milk.  Our  analyses 
show  that  the  difference  in  composition  between  cow's 
milk  and  human  milk  is  not  enough  to  affect  the  infant. 
The  danger  lies  not  so  much  in  overfeeding  on  **rich" 
cow's  milk  as  in  underfeeding  on  watered  milk  and 
cereal  dilutions,  and  in  poisoning  the  little  body  with 
inorganic  minerals. 

If  undiluted  milk  proves  too  rich,  grain  water  may 
be  added.  In  order  to  prepare  this,  take  clean  grain 
as  it  comes  from  the  field,  crush  it  in  a  new  coffee  mill, 
take  3  tablespoons  of  the  crushed  grain  to  one  pint  of 
cold  water,  heat  and  boil  for  one  hour.  "While  the 
gruel  is  boiling,  add  enough  water  to  allow  for  evapora- 
tion and  absorption,  then  strain  and  add  to  milk  1  part 
of  this  grain  water  to  2  parts  of  milk.  Change  these 
proportions  if  necessary. 

When  baby  is  constipated,  add  water  from  the  oats 
and  frequently  cool  the  bowels  with  cold  water.  This 
will  cure  the  most  stubborn  constipation.  If  the  bowels 
are  too  loose,  add  water  made  from  barley  or  wheat. 

Fruit  juices  and  scraped  raw  apple  are  baby's  finest 
medicines.  They  increase  the  supply  of  organic  salts 
for  blood,  nerve  and  bone  building  and  for  purposes  of 
elimination. 

During  the  first  2  months  give  one  teaspoonful  of 
orange  juice,  grape  fruit  juice  or  scraped  apple  one 


304  NATURE   CURE   COOK  BOOK 

hour  before  or  after  each  nursing.     After  the  second 
month  gradually  increase  the  amounts  of  fruit. 

Cheese 

Cheese  is  a  very  concentrated  food.  If  made  from 
full  milk  it  contains  the  protein,  fat  and  sugar  of  the 
milk  and  if  made  from  skimmed  milk  (cottage  cheese) 
it  contains  only  the  protein,  and  sugar,  but  all  kinds 
of  cheese  have  been  robbed  of  the  larger  part  of  the 
organic  mineral  salts  which  are  extracted  from  the 
curds  by  the  withdrawal  of  the  whey. 

This  makes  cheese  a  very  unbalanced  food,  too  rich 
in  the  proteins,  fats  and  sugars,  and  in  proportion  alto- 
gether too  poor  in  the  organic  mineral  salts.  The  com- 
pactness of  the  cheese  interferes  with  its  solubility  and 
with  the  penetration  of  the  digestive  juices.  Further- 
more, the  casein  has  been  rendered  less  digestible 
through  the  "cooking"  of  the  cheese.  This  explains 
why  cheese  is  a  ''heavy"  food,  hard  to  digest  and  to 
assimilate  and  why  for  many  people  it  is  constipating. 

The  processes  of  fermentation  and  decay  which  many 
kinds  of  cheeses  undergo  before  they  are  ready  for  con- 
sumption are  not  at  all  appetizing  or  conducive  to  good 
health. 

Cottage  cheese  in  these  respects  is  far  superior  to  the 
more  expensive,  highly  spiced  and  fermented  brands. 
It  is  more  easily  digested  because  it  has  not  been  sub- 
jected to  the  "cooking"  process,  and  is  not  as  sticky 
and  compact. 

Cooking  coagulates  and  solidifies  the  albumin  of  the 
milk  in  similar  manner  as  the  white  of  egg.  All  protein 
foods,  including  meats,  are  therefore  rendered  less 
digestible  by  cooking. 


DAIRY  PRODUCTS  305 

;  CHEESE  DISHES 

848.  Baked  Cheese  and  Zwieback 

Groups  St,  P.  F. — M. 

Arrange  6  zwieback,  spread  with  butter,  in  a  baking 
pan;  pour  1  cup  boiling  water  over  to  soften  them, 
cover  with  14  pound  grated  cheese.  Beat  the  yolks 
of  2  eggs  with  1  pint  milk  and  a  little  salt;  if  desired, 
add  a  dash  of  cayenne  pepper.  Fold  in  the  whites  of 
the  eggs  beaten  very  stiff;  pour  this  mixture  over  the 
zwieback,  and  bake  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes. 


849.  Boston  Rarebit  Sandwich 

Groups  F.  P.  St.— M. 

Grate  1  pound  of  cheese,  put  into  a  saucepan  with  4 
tablespoons  butter;  as  the  cheese  softens,  add  red  pep- 
per, salt,  and  a  little  mustard;  keep  stirring  constantly; 
when  well  mixed,  add  %  cup  cream ;  stir  until  smooth, 
then  add  2  well -beaten  eggs;  stir  hard  for  a  moment, 
then  remove  from  the  fire ;  a  little  more  cream  may  be 
added  to  make  it  of  the  right  consistency;  serve- on  but- 
tered toast. 

850.  Cheese  Cream  with  Rice 

Groups  F.  St.  P.— M. 

Heat  2  tablespoons  butter  with  1  tablespoon  flour 
and  stir  until  smooth ;  add  2  tablespoons  cream,  season- 
ing to  suit  taste,  and  1  cup  cold  boiled  rice.  Let  boil 
up,  then  add  1  small  cup  grated  cheese.  Serve  on  toast, 
dusted  lightly  with  paprika. 


306  NATURE   CURE   COOK  BOOK 

851.  Cheese  Cutlets 
Groups  F.  P.  St.— M. 

Combine  2  tablespoons  butter  and  4  of  flour,  a  little 
salt  and  paprika;  stir  in  1  cup  milk;  cook  until  it 
thickens,  then  add  2  cups  grated  cheese;  when  melted, 
spread  one  inch  thick  on  a  greased  dish,  and  when  cold 
form  into  cutlet  shape ;  roll  in  fine  bread  crumbs,  then 
in  beaten  egg,  again  in  bread  crumbs,  and  fry  a  nice 
brown. 

852.  Cheese  Fondu  (1) 
Groups  P.  F.  St.— M. 

Scald  1  cup  of  stale  bread  crumbs  with  1  cup  of  half 
milk  and  half  water;  add  a  small  cup  grated  cheese 
and  the  beaten  yolks  of  3  eggs.  Beat  the  whites  of  the 
eggs  with  l^  teaspoon  salt  to  a  stiff  froth,  fold  into  the 
other  mixture,  and  bake  in  a  buttered  pan  about  twenty 
minutes. 

853.  Cheese  Fondu  (2) 

Groups  P.  F.  St. — M. 

Place  1  cup  cheese  and  1  cup  bread,  cut  in  half-inch 
cubes,  in  alternate  layers  in  buttered  baking  dish.  Beat 
1  egg  with  ^  teaspoon  salt  and  dash  cayenne,  adding 
gradually  1  cup  sweet  milk.  Pour  over  bread  and 
cheese  mixture,  sprinkle  grated  cheese  on  top,  and 
bake  in  moderate  oven  twenty-five  minutes,  or  until 
set  like  custard. 

854.  Cheese  Timbales 

Groups  F.  P. — M. 

To  the  well-beaten  yolks  of  4  eggs  add  %  cup  grated 
American  cheese,  I/2  cup  cream,  a  dash  of  cayenne,  and 


DAIRT  PRODUCTS  307 

the  whites  of  eggs,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.   Bake  slowly 
about  twenty  miautes,  in  buttered  timbale  molds. 

855.  Cheese  Toast 

Groups  F.  P.— St.  M. 

Beat  1  egg  into  1  cup  sweet  milk,  add  1  tablespoon 
butter,  a  dash  of  cayenne  pepper,  and  1/2  pound  grated 
cheese.  Heat  the  mixture  in  a  double  boiler,  stir  until 
smooth,  and  pour  over  slices  of  toasted  whole  wheat 
bread,  arranged  on  a  heated  platter. 

856.  English  Monkey 

Groups  P.  F.— St.  M. 

Soak  1  cup  stale  bread  crumbs  iu  1  cup  milk;  melt 
y^  cup  cheese  and  a  lump  of  butter  together,  add  the 
bread  crumbs  and  1  ^gg,  lightly  beaten.  Season  with 
salt  and  cayenne  pepper,  let  cook  about  three  minutes, 
and  pour  over  hot,  buttered  toast. 


EGGS 

Key  to  reference  letters:  St.  (Starches).  S.  (Sugars). 
F.   (Fats).    P.  (Proteids).     M.  (Mineral  Elements). 

Many  people  when  they  give  up  the  use  of  meat  seem 
to  think  that  they  must  eat  a  great  many  eggs  in  place 
of  it.  Others  eat  large  quantities  of  peas,  beans,  cheese 
or  other  heavy,  protein  foods,  in  order  to  make  good 
for  the  loss  of  the  "nourishing"  meat. 

This,  however,  is  a  mistake.  It  is  just  as  easy  to 
saturate  the  system  with  poisonous  acids,  alkaloids  and 
albuminoids,  by  the  excessive  consumption  of  vegetable 
protein,  as  by  meat-eating.  Eggs  also  contain  consid- 
erable quantities  of  uric  acid,  in  the  ready-made  form. 
It  is  claimed  about  five  grains  to  the  pound. 

The  white  of  egg  is  almost  pure  albumin,  which  is  a 
form  of  protein  material.  The  yolk  contains  large 
amounts  of  fats  and  various  combinations  of  phos- 
phorus and  sulphur.  The  two  last  named  elements  tend 
to  create,  during  the  process  of  digestion,  considerable 
quantities  of  sulphurous  acid,  an  ill-smelling  gas,  iden- 
tical with  the  ordinary  sewer  gas;  also  sulphuric  acid, 
commonly  called  vitriol;  phosphorus  and  phosphoric 
acid,  all  of  which  if  they  accumulate  in  the  system  may 
become  very  harmful  or  destructive  to  the  organism. 

In  view  of  these  facts,  it  seems  preposterous  to  stuff 
consumptives  and  other  invalids,  suffering  from  *  *  wast- 
ing" diseases,  with  enormous  quantities  of  eggs,  wTiich 
their  weak  digestions  cannot  digest,  and  which  are 
bound  to  decay  in  their  digestive  organs  and  to  fill  the 

308 


EGGS  309 

system  with  poisonous  acids,  gases  and  alkaloids  of 
putrefaction.  These  patients  cannot  properly  digest 
and  assimilate  a  few  eggs  a  day, — if  they  did  they 
would  not  waste  away  so  rapidly.  "What  then  is  the 
use  of  overloading  their  weak  digestive  organs  with 
enormous  quantities  of  indigestible  ballast. 

However,  in  moderate  quantities,  white  of  egg  is  a 
most  valuable  invalid  food.  "When  the  powers  of  diges- 
tion are  at  the  lowest  ebb,  raw  white  of  egg,  fluid  or 
beaten,  with  or  without  fruit  juices,  is  usually  more 
easily  digested  and  assimilated  than  any  other  kind  of 
food. 

Eggs  are  of  great  nutritive  value  when  eaten  raw, 
soft-boiled,  or  poached.  Prolonged  boiling  or  frying 
coagulates  the  albumin,  making  it  hard  and  tough  and 
therefore  less  digestible, 

EGGS 

Eggs  should  not  be  cooked  in  the  usual  way,  by  plac- 
ing them  in  boiling  water;  this  hardens  and  toughens 
the  albumen  and  makes  them  difficult  to  digest.  A 
much  better  way  is  to  place  them  in  a  good-sized  ves- 
sel, pour  boiling  water  over  them  until  they  are  com- 
pletely submerged,  cover  them  closely,  and  let  them 
stand  in  the  water  five  minutes  or  longer,  according 
to  whether  they  are  desired  soft,  medium,  or  hard.  If 
left  in  the  water  long  enough,  the  yolk  will  become 
solid,  but  will  still  be  tender  and  easily  digested. 

857.  Baked  Eggs 

Groups  P.  r. — St.  M. 

In  a  buttered  baking  dish  arrange  hard-boiled  eggs 
out  in  half  lengthwise ;  dust  with  salt,  sprinkle  lightly 


310  NATURE  CURE   COOK  BOOK 

with  grated  cheese,  and  cover  with  white  sauce  to  which 
a  few  drops  of  onion  juice  have  been  added.  Put  a 
layer  of  bread  crumbs  on  top  and  place  in  the  oven 
until  thoroughly  heated  and  nicely  browned. 

858.  Dropped  Eggs 

Groups  P.  F. 

Into  a  pan  filled  with  boiling  salted  water  break 
carefully  as  many  eggs  as  required,  cover,  and  keep 
over  a  low  flame  until  the  whites  are  set.  Remove  with 
a  skimmer. 

Note: — The  addition  of  a  teaspoon  of  lemon  juice 
to  every  pint  of  water  will  help  to  prevent  the  breaks 
ing  of  the  eggs. 

Milk  used  instead  of  water  imparts  a  more  delicate 
flavor  to  the  eggs. 

859.  Egg  Balls 

Groups  F.  P. — St.  M. 

Rub  the  yolks  of  3  hard-boiled  eggs  to  a  paste  with  1 
teaspoon  of  melted  butter,  add  seasoning  to  taste,  and 
1  raw  egg;  form  into  small  balls,  roll  first  in  white 
of  egg,  then  in  flour,  drop  carefully  in  boiling  water 
and  let  poach  a  few  minutes.  Serve  on  lettuce  with 
buttered  toa^t. 

860.  Eggs  and  Cheese  Cream  (1) 

Groups  F.  P.— M.  St. 

Heat  together  1  tablespoon  of  butter  and  2  table- 
spoons grated  cheese;  when  well  blended,  add  3  eggs, 
well  beaten  and  seasoned;  stir  lightly  until  the  eggs 
are  set,  but  not  hard.     Serve  on  toast. 


EGGS  311 

861.  Figgs  and  Cheese  Cream  (2) 

Groups  F.  P. — M. 

Melt  2  tablespoons  butter,  add  2  tablespoons  grated 
cheese,  and  1  teaspoon  minced  parsley  or  chervil. 
When  cheese  is  melted,  add  4  well-beaten  eggs,  a  little 
salt  and  paprika,  a  dash  of  nutmeg,  and  i/^  teaspoon 
French  mustard.  Dust  with  paprika  and  serve  on 
toast. 

862.  Eggs  and  Tomatoes  (1) 

Groups  III.  F.  P.  St. 

Choose  even,  medium-sized  tomatoes;  wash  and  re- 
move part  of  pulp  from  the  stem  end ;  season  and  break 
an  egg  into  each  cavity;  place  in  a  buttered  baking- 
pan;  add  enough  water  to  prevent  burning,  and  bake 
in  a  moderate  oven  until  the  eggs  are  cooked  suffi- 
ciently;  serve  on  buttered  toast. 

863.  Eggs  and  Tomatoes  (2) 

Groups  M.  F.  P. 

In  2  tablespoons  of  butter  or  olive  oil,  heat  1  onion, 
minced  fine,  until  soft  and  yellow;  add  1  quart  of 
tomatoes,  fresh  or  canned ;  let  stew  slowly  about  thirty 
minutes.  When  ready  to  serve  drop  eggs  (as  many 
as  required)  into  the  tomatoes,  cover  a  few  minutes 
until  the  eggs  are  set,  then  pour  carefully  into  a  heated 
dish.    Serve  at  once. 

864.  Eggs  a  la  Goldenrod 

Groups  F.  P.  St. — ^M. 

To  2  cups  of  good  white  sauce,  add  the  whites  of  2 
hard-boiled  eggs,  chopped  fine.      Pour  over  hot,  but- 


312  NATURE   CURE    COOK   BOOK 

tered  toast.      Press  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  through  a 
ricer,  so  as  to  represent  sprays  of  goldenrod. 

865.  Eggs  a  la  Suisse 

Groups  F.  P.— St.  M. 

Break  fresh  eggs  into  custard  cups  or  small  casser- 
oles, sprinkle  with  salt  and  a  little  grated  cheese.  Pour 
over  enough  rich  milk  or  cream  to  nearly  cover,  and 
bake  in  the  oven  about  five  minutes.  Serve  imme- 
diately on  toast. 

866.  Eggs,  Spanish  Style 

Groups  F.  P.  St. — M. 

"Wash  1  cup  rice,  cook  one-half  hour  in  2  quarts  of 
boiling  salted  water,  and  drain;  add  1  tablespoon  of 
butter,  spread  lightly  on  a  heated  platter,  place 
poached  eggs  over  the  top,  dust  lightly  with  salt,  and 
serve. 

867.  Egg  Strawberry  Shortcake 

Groups  F.  P.  St.  M. 

Make  2  omelets  according  to  directions  for  making 
plain  omelet;  put  one  on  a  heated  platter,  cover  with 
strawberries,  then  place  the  other  on  top.  If  desired, 
garnish  with  whipped  cream. 

868.  Egg  On  Toast  (For  Quick  Service) 

Groups  St.  F.  P.— M. 

Toast  slices  of  bread  on  one  side,  spread  butter  on 
the  other,  break  an  egg  on  each  slice;  place  Ln  the 
oven.  When  the  egg  is  done  the  bread  -sWll  be  toasted 
and  ready  to  serve. 


EGGS  313 

869.  Escalloped  Eggs  (1) 

Groups  P.  F.  St.— M. 

Mix  equal  parts  protose  and  fine  bread  crumbs; 
season  with  salt  and  butter,  adding  milk  to  moisten 
until  quite  soft;  half  fill  gem  pans  with  this  mixture 
and  break  egg  carefully  upon  the  top  of  each;  dust 
with  salt  and  powdered  crackers  and  bake  eight  min- 
utes.     Serve  immediately. 


870.  Escalloped  Eggs  (2) 

Groups  St.  F.  P.— M. 

Moisten  coarse  bread  crumbs  with  milk,  add  season- 
ing to  taste,  a  little  melted  butter,  and  some  minced 
parsley.  Fill  gem  pans  about  half  full,  carefully  break 
an  egg  into  each,  dust  lightly  with  salt,  cover  with 
sifted  bread  crumbs,  dot  with  bits  of  butter,  and  bake 
eight  minutes. 

871.  Scrambled  Eggs 

Groups  F.  P.— M. 

Beat  the  eggs  slightly,  adding  salt  to  taste,  2  tea- 
spoons of  melted  butter,  and  1  tablespoon  of  water, 
milk  or  cream  to  each  egg  used.  Water  is  preferable, 
as  the  eggs  will  be  lighter.  Cook  in  a  double  boiler, 
or  in  a  pan  set  in  boiling  water,  stirring  constantly 
until  the  eggs  are  set.     Serve  garnished  with  parsley. 

Note: — This  dish  may  be  varied  by  adding  finely 
minced  parsley,  leek,  green  peppers,  or  any  cooked 
vegetable  like  green  peas,  chopped  spinach,  asparagus, 
string  beans,  potatoes  or  carrots,  cut  into  small  dice. 
Left-overs  may  be  utilized  in  this  manner. 


314  NATURE   CURE   COOK  BOOK 

872.  Scrambled  Eggs  in  Rice  Mold 

Groups  St.  F.  P.— M. 

Boil  rice,  pack  closely  in  a  heated  and  well-buttered 
dish  or  mold.  After  a  few  minutes  turn  out  on  a 
heated  platter,  scoop  out  the  center,  fill  with  scrambled 
6&&S,  prepared  as  directed  in  preceding  recipe. 

873.  Eggs  Scrambled  With  Tomatoes 

Groups  F.  P.  M. 

To  each  egg  used  add  1  tablespoon  of  tomatoes, 
strained;  1/4  teaspoon  grated  onion,  salt  to  taste,  and 
2  tablespoons  melted  butter.  Beat  lightly  and  cook 
in  a  double  boiler.      Serve  on  squares  of  toast. 

874.  Poached  Eggs 

Groups  F.  P. — M. 

Into  the  small  tin  pans  made  for  poached  or  shirred 
eggs  place  a  little  melted  butter  or  olive  oil;  break  a 
fresh  egg  into  each,  place  in  a  shallow  pan  filled  with 
boiling  water,  or  in  a  hot  oven,  and  cover  closely.  The 
eggs  will  be  ready  to  serve  in  from  three  to  five  min- 
utes. 

875.  Poached  Eggs  With  Tomato  Sauce 

Groups  F.  P.  M.— St. 

Cook  6  tomatoes  with  1  medium-sized  onion  and  a 
little  minced  parsley,  then  press  through  a  sieve ;  seSr- 
son  and  thicken  with  a  little  cornstarch;  pour  over 
buttered  toast,  and  top  with  poached  eggs. 


EGGS  315 

876.  Poached  Eggs  in  Potatoes 

Groups  F.  P.  St.— M. 

Cut  baked  potatoes  in  halves  and  scoop  out  the  cen- 
ters; rub  through  a  sieve,  add  1  tablespoon  cream,  a 
little  salt,  then  line  the  potato  shells  with  this ;  sprinkle 
with  grated  cheese,  place  a  poached  egg  in  each; 
sprinkle  cheese  over  the  eggs,  then  cover  with  white 
sauce;    let  brown  in  the  oven. 

OMELETTES 

Strictly  fresh  eggs  should  be  used,  and  the  whites 
and  yolks  beaten  separately.  To  the  yolks  may  be 
added  a  little  milk  or  water.  In  making  savory  ome- 
lettes, the  savory  ingredients  (parsley,  chopped  onions, 
grated  cheese,  or  apples,  etc.)  should  always  be  beaten 
in  with  the  yolk. 


877.  Plain  Omelette 

Groups  F.  P. — M. 

Separate  yolks  and  whites  of  eggs;  beat  the  yolks, 
adding  salt  to  taste,  and  1  tablespoon  of  milk  or  water 
for  each  egg.  Beat  the  whites  and  fold  into  the  yolks. 
Have  ready  on  the  flame  an  omelette-pan  with  hot  but- 
ter or  olive  oil;  put  in  the  eggs,  take  from  the  fire 
and  set  on  the  hot  stove  or  into  a  pan  of  boiling  water. 
When  sufficiently  set  loosen  around  the  edge  with  a 
knife,  fold  one-half  of  the  omelette  over,  and  slip  out 
of  the  pan  onto  a  heated  platter.  Garnish  with  sprigs 
of  parsley  and  serve  at  once. 


316  NATURE    CURE    COOK   BOOK 

878.  Omelette 

Groups  F.  P.— M. 

Take  1  tablespoon  of  butter  and  a  small  quantity  of 
chopped  parsley ;  heat  in  a  dish ;  add  5  well-beaten 
eggs;  mix  with  1  cup  milk  and  a  little  salt;  stir 
slowly  from  the  bottom  of  the  dish,  roll,  and  serve  on 
a  hot  platter. 

879.  Com  Omelette 

Groups  St.  S.  P.  F.  M. 

Grate  the  kernels  from  4  ears  of  sweet  com;  beat 
3  eggs  with  3  tablespoons  cream,  and  turn  into  a  hot 
buttered  pan;  when  the  eggs  set  add  the  corn;  season 
and  serve  the  usual  way. 


880.  Economical  Omelette 

Groups  F.  P.  St.— M. 

Separate  the  yolks  and  whites  of  3  eggs;  beat  the 
yolks,  adding  y^  cup  milk  or  water,  and  seasoning, 
then  stir  in  1  cup  whole  wheat  bread  crumbs ;  beat  the 
whites  and  proceed  as  directed  in  Recipe  No.  877, 
' '  Omelettes. ' '  Cook  until  under  side  is  nicely  browned, 
then  cut  in  sections  and  turn  separately  to  brown  other 
side. 

881.  French  Omelette 

Groups  F.  P.— M. 

Beat  4  eggs,  add  4  tablespoons  milk,  2  of  melted 
butter,  and  a  little  salt;  beat  well  and  pour  into  a 
hot  buttered  pan;    draw  the  edges  toward  the  center 


EGGS  317  - 

with  a  knife  until  the  whole  mass  is  of  a  creamy  con- 
sistency, then  let  brown  quickly;  fold,  and  turn  out 
on  a  hot  platter. 

882.  Fruit  Omelette 

Groups  M.  F.  P.— St.  S. 

Use  apple  sauce  or  stewed  pears,  peaches,  plums, 
berries,  raisins,  etc.  To  1  pint  of  sauce  add  1  table- 
spoon fresli  butter,  sugar  to  taste,  and  a  little  cinna- 
mon or  nutmeg,  if  desired;  when  cold,  add  5  well- 
beaten  eggs.  Bake  in  a  buttered  pan  until  brown,  and 
serve  with  whole  wheat  bread. 

Note : — Grated  raw  apples  make  a  delicious  omelette. 

883.  Jelly  Omelette 

Groups  F.  P.  S. — M. 

Proceed  as  directed  in  Recipe  No.  877,  "Omelettes." 
When  folding,  place  1  or  2  tablespoons  of  jelly  be- 
tween. 

884.  Vegetable  Omelette 

Groups  F.  P.  M. 

Follow  directions  of  preceding  recipe,  using  cooked 
vegetables,  seasoned  to  taste. 


SANDWICHES 

Key  to  reference  letters:  St.  (Starches).  S.  (Sugars). 
F.  (Fats).     P.  (Proteids).     M.   (Mineral  Elements). 

In  making  sandwiches,  the  whole  grain  bread  is  al- 
ways preferable.  It  should  be  evenly  and  thinly  sliced, 
and  fresh,  sweet  butter  used.  Care  should  be  taken 
not  only  to  make  good  food  combinations,  but  to  make 
them  appeal  to  the  eye  as  well.  Lettuce  or  watercress 
is  always  a  welcome  addition  to  most  combinations. 

885.  Apple  Sauce  Sandwiclies 

Groups  St.  P.  M.  F.  S. 

Thick  apple  sauce,  with  whipped  cream,  makes  a 
nice  sweet  sandwich  for  immediate  serving. 

886.  Baked  Bean  Sandwiches 

Groups  £t.  P.  M. 

Mash  1/2  cup  baked  beans  through  a  colander;  add 
1  teaspoon  each  of  minced  celery  and  parsley,  I/2  tea- 
spoon onion  juice,  1  tablespoon  horseradish  or  ketchup. 

887.  Banana  Sandwiches 

Groups  S.  St.  F.— M.  P. 

Slice  ripe  bananas  lengthwise,  spread  with  mayon- 
naise  dressing,  and  sprinlde  with  chopped  nuts,  if  de- 
sired. A  few  drops  of  lemon  juice  is  an  improvement. 
Serve  with  lettuce. 

818 


SANDWICHES  319 

888.  Boston  Rare-Bit  SandvTiches 

Groups  F.  P.  St. — M. 

Grate  1  pound  cheese,  put  into  a  saucepan  with  4 
tablespoons  butter;  as  the  cheese  softens  add  red  pep- 
per, if  desired,  salt  and  a  little  mustird;  keep  stirring 
constantly;  when  well  mixed,  add  I/2  cup  cream;  stir 
until  smooth,  then  add  2  well-beaten  eggs,  stir  hard 
for  a  moment,  then  remove  from  the  fire ;  a  little  more 
cream  may  be  added  to  make  it  of  good  consistency. 
Serve  on  buttered  toast. 

889.  Celery  Sandwiches 

Groups  St.  P.  M. 

Finely  cut  celery,  with  or  without  lettuce,  makes  a 
nice  sandwich. 

CHEESE   SANDWICHES 

Cheese  of  any  preferred  kind  makes  good  sand- 
wiches, either  alone  or  in  combination  with  other  ingre- 
dients. The  addition  of  lettuce  or  cress  not  only  adds 
to  its  value,  but  makes  a  daintier  one  in  appearance. 

Cream,  Neufchatel  or  cottage  cheese  may  be  mashed 
and  various  ingredients  added  for  variety. 

American  cheese  should  be  grated  for  sandwiches; 
Swiss  cheese  thinly  sliced. 

890.  Cheese  and  Pimento  Sandwiches 

Groups  St.  p.  F. — M. 

To  1  cream  cheese  add  1  pimento;  macerate  with  a 
silver  fork;  add  a  little  sweet  cream,  and,  if  desired, 
a  dash  of  cayenne. 


820  NATURE   CURE   COOK  BOOK 

891.  Cheese  Sandwiches  (1) 

Groups  St.  P.  F.  M. 

Cream  or  Neufchatel  cheese,  with  minced  onion  and 
chopped  nuts  is  delicious.  A  little  minced  parsley 
or  sweet  pepper  may  be  added  if  desired, 

892.  Cheese  Sandwiches  (2) 

Groups  St.  P.  F.  M. 

Cream  or  Neufchatel  cheese,  minced  sweet  pepper 
and  green  onion,  a  pinch  of  salt  and  a  dash  of  cayenne. 

893.  Cheese  Sandwiches  (3) 

Groups  St.  P.  F.  S.— M. 

A  layer  of  cream,  Neufchatel  or  cottage  cheese, 
spread  with  jam  or  marmalade,  is  a  good  combination, 

894.  Mayonnaise  Cheese  Sandwiches 

Groups  St.  P.  F.— M. 

Slice  thin  1  pound  American  cheese,  put  in  double 
boiler;  steam  until  it  melts;  add  mayonnaise  to  the 
consistency  of  butter;  stir  well  into  cheese;  cut  1 
small  can  pimentoes  into  bits  and  add.  Let  cool  be- 
fore using. 

895.  Combination  Salad  Sandwiches 

Groups  M.  St.  P.  F. 

On  each  slice  of  bread  place  a  lettuce  leaf,  1  slice 
tomato,  several  slices  of  cucumber,  and,  if  desired,  a 
little  minced  onion;  add  a  layer  of  mayonnaise  dress- 
ing. 

Boston  brown  bread  is  excellent  for  this  sandwich. 


SANDWICHES  321 

896.  Cucumber  and  Olive  Sandwiclies 

Groups  St.  F.  P.  M. 

Sliced  cucumbers,  with  chopped  olives  and  mayon- 
naise dressing,  make  a  delicious  sandwich. 

897.  Dream  Sandwiches 

Groups  P.  F.  St.  M. 

Butter  thin  slices  of  whole  wheat  bread,  cover  with 
a  thick  layer  of  grated  American  cheese,  sprinkle  with 
paprika,  and  fry  a  golden  brown,  in  butter.  Serve  at 
once. 

898.  Date  Marmalade  Sandwiches 

Groups  St.  P.  S.  M. 

Soak  fine  dates  in  luke-warm  water;  stone,  grind  or 
chop  fine,  and  spread  between  wafers,  triscuit  or  whole 
wheat  bread. 

899.  Egg  Sandwiches 

Groups  P.  St.  F.  M. 

Minced  hard-boiled  eggs,  seasoned,  and  moistened 
with  mayonnaise,  on  lettuce.  Minced  onion  and  pars- 
ley may  be  added  with  good  result. 

900.  Deviled  Egg  Sandwiches 

Groups  St.  P.  F.  M. 

After  making  deviled  eggs  there  is  always  some  of 
the  filling  left.  Spread  this  on  lettuce  leaves,  between 
thin  slices  of  buttered  bread,  adding  a  little  sliced 
sweet  pickle,  if  desired. 


322  NATURE   CURE   COOK  BOOK 

901.  Fig  Sandwiches 

Groups  St.  P.  S.  M. 

Grind  or  chop  fine  1  pound  figs;  add  1  cup  water 
and  cook  carefully  until  very  tender ;  add  1  cup  sugar 
when  almost  done,  and  let  simmer  until  the  consistency 
of  marmalade.  Use  for  sandwich  filling  or  cake  fill- 
ing.    Chopped  nuts  may  be  added. 


902.  Fruit  Sandwiches 

Groups  St.  P.  S.  M.— F. 

1  cup  each  of  raisins,  dates,  figs,  prunes,  cooked  or 
raw,  and  1  cup  nut  meats,  ground  or  chopped  fine, 
make  a  fine  sandwich  filling.  If  too  dry  to  spread 
well,  moisten  with  prune  juice  or  lemon  juice. 


903.  Fresh  Fruit  Sandwiches 

Groups  St.  P.  M.  S. 

Crushed  fresh  fruit, — strawberries,  red  raspberries, 
blackberries  or  peaches,  sweetened  to  taste,  make  deli- 
cious sandwiches  for  immediate  serving. 


904.  Individual  Club  Sandwich 

Groups  P.  St.  F.— M. 

For  each  sandwich  required,  fry  1  slice  whole  wheat 
bread  in  hot  butter  or  olive  oil  until  nicely  browned ; 
place  on  bed  of  shredded  lettuce;  cover  with  savory 
protose,  put  a  slice  of  tomato  on  top,  then  a  spoonful 
of  mayonnaise,  sprinkle  with  finely  cut  celery  and  wal- 
nuts, and  garnish  with  pimento  olives. 


SANDWICHES  323 

905.  Jam  or  Marmalade  Sandwiches 

Groups  St  P.  S.  M. 

Any  preferred  jam  or  marmalade,  preferably  quince, 
orange  or  grapefruit  makes  delicious  sandwich  filling. 

906.  Lettuce  With  Mayonnaise 

Groups  St.  P.  F.  M. 

Fresh,  crisp  lettuce,  shredded,  with  mayonnaise  dress- 
ing, either  with  or  without  chopped  nuts,  makes  a  very 
acceptable  sandwich. 

907.  Mock  Crab  Sandwiches 

Groups  St.  P.  F.  M. 

Cream  2  tablespoons  butter;  add  i/4  cup  grated 
cheese,  ^A  teaspoon  salt,  14  teaspoon  paprika,  14  tea- 
spoon mustard,  1  teaspoon  lemon  juice,  1  teaspoon 
chopped  olives  or  gherkins;   mix  well  together. 

908.  Mosaic  Sandwiches 

Groups  St.  P.  F.— M, 

Cut  an  equal  number  of  slices  of  good  brown  and 
white  bread;  butter  each  slice  well,  and  pile  alter- 
nately, first  brown,  then  white  ;  wrap  in  a  damp  napkin 
until  ready  to  serve,  then  slice  across,  in  thin  slices. 

909.  Mushroom  Sandwiches 

Groups  St.  P.  F.— M. 

Cut  mushrooms  in  small  pieces,  cook  in  butter  until 
tender ;  add  seasoning,  a  little  lemon  juice  and  grated 
nutmeg;   let  cool,  then  spread  on  buttered  bread. 


324  NATURE   CURE   COOK   BOOK 

910.  Nut  Sandwiches  (1) 

Groups  St.  P.  F.— M. 

Shelled  nuts, — almonds,  pecans,  filberts,  black  or 
English  walnuts,  hickory  nuts,  peanuts,  either  alone 
or  in  combination,  may  be  ground  or  cliopped,  may- 
onnaise dressing",  or  plain  or  whipped  cream  added, 
with  a  pinch  of  salt. 

911.  Nut  Sandwiches  (2) 

Groups  St.  P.  F.— M.  (S.) 

Ground  nuts  and  dates,  or  ground  nuts  and  cottage 
cheese,  are  good  combinations  for  sandwich  fillings. 

For  the  nut  and  date  combination,  use  1  cup  stoned 
and  chopped  dates  to  i/^  cup  chopped  nut  meats.  If 
too  dry  to  spread  well,  add  a  little  sweet  cream. 

912.  Onion  Sandwiches 

Groups  St.  p.  M.  F. 

Finely  chopped  onions  with  mayonnaise,  on  lettuce, 
make  nice  sandwiches. 

Groups  M.— F.  P. 

913.  Equal  parts  chopped  onions  and  green  peppers, 
with  a  few  chopped  nuts  added,  makes  a  piquant  sand- 
wich filling. 

914.  Peanut  Butter  Sandwiches 

Groups  St.  P.  F.— M.  (S.) 

Plain  peanut  butter,  thinned  with  cream,  milk  or 
water,  and  a  pinch  of  salt,  are  easy  to  prepare. 


SANDWICHES  325 

915.  Peanut  butter,  well  spread  with  a  layer  of 
whole  raisins,  or  ground  or  chopped  raisins  and  nuts. 

916.  Pea-nut  butter  sandwiches,  spread  with  mar- 
malade. 

917.  Piquant  Sandwiches 

Groups  St.  P.  F.  M. 

2  cups  mixed  nuts,  2  onions,  1  cup  olives,  chopped 
fine;   mix  with  mayonnaise  dressing. 

918.  Russian  Sandwiches 

Groups  St.  P.  F.— M. 

Chop  olives  fine,  moisten  with  mayonnaise  and  add 
a  little  onion  juice;  to  1  cup  olives  add  2  hard-boiled 
eggs,  chopped  fine;  spread  between  well-buttered 
slices  of  bread. 

919.  Watercress  Sandwiches 

Groups  St.  P.  M. 

Watercress  between  buttered  slices  of  Boston  brown 
bread  makes  a  piquant  sandwich. 


BEVERAGES 

Key  to  reference  letters:  St.  (Starches).  S.  (Sugars). 
r.  (Fats).    P.  (Proteids).    M.  (Mineral  Elements). 

920.  Apple  Drink 

Groups  M.  S. 

Cook  2  pounds  apples,  cut  in  pieces,  retaining  skin 
and  cores,  with  3  pints  water,  until  apples  are  tasteless ; 
strain  the  liquid  and  use  hot  or  cold,  sweetened  to 
taste. 

Prune,  raisin  and  fig  drinks  may  be  made  in  the  same 
manner. 

921.  Apple  Punch 

Groups  M.  S. 

Quarter  and  core  but  do  not  pare  12  tart  apples; 
cover  with  4  quarts  water ;  bring  to  boiling  point  and 
cook  twenty  minutes  without  stirring;  add  1  glass 
quince  jelly;  strain  through  cheese  cloth;  sweeten 
to  taste  and  chill.  When  serving,  add  1  pound  white 
grapes,  cut  in  halves  and  seeded. 

922.  Barley  Water 

Groups  St.  P.  S.  M. 

Boil  2  ounces  pearl  barley  in  i/^  pint  water  forty- 
five  minutes,  then  add  2  quarts  boiling  water  and  a  few 
chopped  figs  and  seeded  raisins.  Boil  thirty  minutes 
and  strain;   add  lemon  juice  and  sweeten  to  taste. 

326 


BEVERAGES  327 

For  barley  water  for  infant  feeding,  see  chapter 
under  that  heading. 

923.  Bran  Lemonade 

Groups  M.  S. 

To  1  quart  water  add  y^  pi^it  bran  and  let  stand 
half  an  hour  in  a  cool  place ;  pour  off  water,  add  juice 
of  4  lemons  and  sweeten  to  taste. 

924.  Bran  Tea 

Groups  M.  S.  F. 

To  1  pint  boiling  water  add  %  pint  wheat  bran. 
Let  stand  on  back  of  stove  for  an  hour,  but  do  not 
boil.  Strain,  and  serve  with  sugar  and  cream  instead 
of  coffee  or  tea. 

925.  Cherry  Juice 

Groups  M,  S. 

Remove  stems  from  sour  cherries,  wash,  then  follow 
general  directions  for  making  grape  juice,  first  crush- 
ing some  of  the  cherry  pits. 

Currants,  elderberries,  strawberries,  raspberries, 
blackberries,  blue  or  huckleberries  may  be  prepared 
in  the  same  manner, 

926.  Chocolate  Glace 

Groups  F.  S. 

Dissolve  1  pint  chocolate  ice  cream  in  1  pint  plain 
cream;  put  1  tablespoon  chocolate  ice  cream  in  tall 
glasses,  fill  %  full  with  the  cream  mixture;  top  with 
whipped  cream. 


328  NATURE   CURE   COOK   BOOK 

927.  Chocolate  Parfait 

Groups  P.  S.  F.  M. 

Whip  egg  whites  very  stiff.  To  the  whites  of  4  eggs 
add  2  teaspoons  fine  cocoa  and  2  tablespoons  pow- 
dered sugar;  put  1  large  spoonful  in  each  glass,  fill 
two-thirds  full  with  cold,  sweet  milk,  then  fill  in  lightly 
the  balance  of  the  beaten  egg.  A  dash  of  grated  nut- 
meg is  a  delightful  addition. 

928.  Itot  Chocolate 

Groups  S.  F.  P.— M. 

To  1  pint  boiling  milk  and  water  (half  each),  add 
1  ounce  scraped  or  grated  bitter  chocolate  and  1  ounce 
sugar;  stir  two  or  three  minutes,  until  chocolate  and 
sugar  are  dissolved.  When  making  hot  chocolate  in 
quantity,  it  is  best  to  use  a  double  boiler,  then  beat 
with  an  egg-beater.  For  special  occasions,  top  with 
whipped  cream,  or  pour  the  hot  chocolate  over  fresh 
marshmallows. 

929.  Cocoa 

Groups  S.  P.  P. — M. 

To  1  pint  boiling  water  add  3  tablespoons  cocoa 
mixed  with  3  tablespoons  granulated  sugar;  boil 
slowly  for  ten  minutes,  then  add  1  quart  boiling  milk, 
white  of  1  egg,  a  dash  of  vanilla  extract  and  a  speck 
of  salt.     Mix  thoroughly  and  serve  hot. 

930.  Cranberry  Cocktail 

Groups  M.  S. 

To  1  quart  cranberries  add  2  quarts  water;  cook 
until  tender;  strain;  add  1  pint  orange  juice,  ^  pint 


BEVERAGES  329 

lemon  juice,  1  pint  pineapple  juice,  sugar  to  taste,  and 
water  to  the  right  consistency. 

931.  Currant  Drink 

Groups  M.  S. 

1  tablespoon  currant  jelly,  dissolved  in  1  glass  cold 
water,  makes  a  healthful  drink,  and  very  easy  to  pre- 
pare. 

Raspberry,  grape,  plum,  crab  apple  or  strawberry 
jelly  may  be  used  in  the  same  manner. 

932.  Eggnog 

Groups  F.  S.  P.  M. 
Separate  1  egg  for  each  glass  wanted ;  to  the  yolks 
add  a  little  sugar  and  a  few  drops  of  orange  or  lemon 
juice,  beat  well,  and  pour  into  glasses;  fill  two-thirds 
full  with  cold  sweet  milk;  beat  the  whites  of  eggs 
very  stiff,  add  a  little  sugar  and  a  few  drops  of  fruit 
juice,  and  pile  lightly  on  top.     Serve  at  once. 

933.  Eggnog  With  Nuts 

Groups  S.  P.  P. 
Add  several  large  spoonfuls  of  milk  to  each  egg 
yolk,  enough  honey  to  sweeten,  and  2  tablespoons 
ground  nut  meats ;  beat  well ;  pour  into  glasses,  add 
the  stiffly-beaten  whites  of  eggs,  sweetened  with  honey 
or  sugar.     Sprinkle  lightly  with  ground  nuts. 

934.  Flaxseed  Lemonade 

Groups  S.  St.  P.  M. 
4  tablespoons  flaxseed,  2  quarts  water;    boil  three- 
quarters  of  an  hour ;   strain ;   add  honey  to  suit  taste, 
and  lemon  juice  if  desired. 


330  NATURE   CURE   COOK   BOOK 

935.  Fruit  Beverage 

Groups  M.  S. 

Ciaish  1  quart  strawberries;  add  juice  of  2  lemons 
and  1  orange,  3  pints  water  and  V^  cup  sugar.  Chill 
and  serve. 

936.  Fruit  Cocktail  (1) 

Groups  M.  S. 

1  pint  lemon  juice,  1  pint  orange  juice,  1  pint  pine- 
apple juice,  1  quart  water,  1  bottle  ginger  ale,  sugar 
to  taste. 

937.  Fruit  Cocktail  (2) 

Groups  M.  S. 

.Cut  fine  pineapples,  oranges  and  grapefruit;  add 
lemon  juice,  ginger  ale  and  sugar  to  taste.  Serve 
very  cold,  in  tall  glasses. 

938.  Fruit  Punch 

Groups  M.  S. 

1  pint  lemon  juice,  1/2  pint  orange  juice,  1  small 
pineapple,  grated;  1  pint  strawberries,  sugar  and 
water  to  taste,  and,  if  preferred,  a  bottle  of  ginger 
ale  or  grape  juice. 

939.  Grape  Eggnog 

Groups  S.  F.  P. 

Allow  1  whole  egg  for  each  portion  desired,  beating 
yolks  and  whites  separately.  To  the  yolks  add  suffi- 
cient grape  juice  to  give  it  a  fine,  rich  color ;  sweeten 
with  honey ;  fill  glasses  two-thirds  full,  and  add  stiffly- 
beaten  whites  of  eggs,  sweetened  with  honey  or  sugar. 


BEVERAGES  831 

940.  Grape  Juice  (1) 

Gronps  S.  M. 

Wash  and  stem  20  pounds  grapes,  put  in  kettle  and 
mash  with  a  wooden  potato-masher.  Cook  until  the 
pulp  is  freed  from  the  seeds;  drain  over  night;  next 
morning  strain  again  and  bring  to  boil.  Have  bottles 
ready  in  a  pan  of  hot  water,  fill  and  seal  at  once.  (Use 
beer  bottles  with  patent  stoppers,  or  sterilized  Mason 
jars.) 

When  serving,  dilute  with  water  or  shaved  ice; 
sweeten,  if  desired. 

Add  2  quarts  water  to  the  pulp  left  in  jelly  bag; 
press  thoroughly  and  let  liquid  settle.  Pour  off,  add 
1  cup  sugar  to  each  quart  of  liquid,  boil  up  once,  bottle 
and  seal. 

941.  Grape  Juice  (2) 

Groups  S.  M. 

Pick  stems  from  Concord  grapes  and  put  into  a 
kettle,  allowing  1  quart  water  to  8  quarts  grapes. 
Cook  slowly  until  soft,  then  strain  through  a  jelly 
bag.  Add  1  cup  sugar  to  4  cups  juice;  heat  to  boil- 
ing point,  boil  two  minutes,  then  fill  bottles,  cork,  and 
when  cold,  seal  with  melted  paraffin. 

942.  Cereal  Coffee 

Use  1  tablespoon  cereal  coffee  to  each  cup  needed, 
and  1  for  the  pot.  Put  on  in  cold  water  and  boil 
steadily  for  five  or  six  minutes,  then  reduce  heat  to 
prevent  boiling,  and  allow  to  settle  about  two  min- 
utes before  serving. 


332  NATURE   CURE   COOK  BOOK 

943.  Iced  Cereal  Coffee 

Make  coffee  as  above  directed,  add  shaved  ice,  and 
serve  with  lemon  and  sugar  to  taste. 

944.  Oatmeal  Water 

Groups  St.  P. 

1  small  cup  rolled  oats  to  1  quart  cold  water;  keep 
covered  and  in  a  cool  place.  Stir  with  a  wooden  spoon 
each  time  before  using. 

945.  Orange  Eggnog 

Groups  M.  S.  F.  P. 

For  each  glass  wanted  beat  the  whites  of  2  eggs  stiff 
with  2  tablespoons  sugar,  and  the  yolk  of  1  egg  with  2 
tablespoons  sugar.  Mix  lightly,  add  grated  rind  of  1 
and  the  juice  of  3  oranges.     Serve  very  cold. 

946.  Orange  Lemonade 

Groups  M.  S. 

Juice  of  2  lemons  and  2  oranges,  2  tablespoons  sugar, 
1  quart  water.     Serve  well  chilled. 

947.  Peach  Cocktail 

Groups  M.  S.— P. 

Peel  and  stone  peaches,  cut  very  fine,  or  ran  through 
a  coarse  vegetable-grinder;  sweeten  to  taste.  To  12 
large  peaches  add  the  juice  of  3  lemons,  1  orange  and  1 
quart  water.     Serve  very  cold,  in  tall  glasses. 


BEVERAGES  333 

Apricots  or  crushed  berries  may  be  used  in  the  same 
manner. 

948.  Pineapple  Pop 

Groups  M.  S. 

Peel,  slice  and  pound  1  pineapple  to  a  pulp.  To  2 
cups  water  add  1  cup  sugar ;  boil,  skim  and  pour  over 
the  pineapple  while  very  hot.  Add  the  juice  of  2 
lemons  and  let  all  stand  two  hours,  tightly  covered; 
add  1  pint  cold  water.  Serve  in  tall  glasses,  with 
shaved  ice  (and  a  dash  of  Appollinaris,  vichy  or  seltzer 
water,  if  desired). 

949.  Plum  Juice 

Groups  M.  S. 

Follow  directions  for  making  Grape  Juice,  adding  a 
trifle  more  water,  unless  the  plums  are  very  juicy. 

950.  Rice  Water 

Groups  St.  P. 

Simmer  2  tablespoons  rice  in  1  quart  boiling  water 
for  two  hours.  Strain,  add  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  use 
either  hot  or  cold. 

951.  Rhubarb  Drink 

Groups  M.  S. 

Cut  rhubarb  in  squares  and  cook  with  1  quart  water 
to  2  quarts  fruit;    sweeten  to  taste,  and  serve  chilled. 

Gooseberries,  black  currants  or  other  small  fruits 
may  be  used  in  the  same  manner. 


634 
952. 


NATURE   CURE   COOK  BOOK 

Sumik 


Groups  M.  F.  P.— 8. 

Fill  a  glass  fruit  jar  with  sweet  milk  and  screw  down 
the  cover,  using  rubber  ring.  Set  in  a  warm  place  to 
sour  quickly.  When  turned  to  clabber,  empty  contents 
into  a  bowl,  and  beat  with  an  egg-beater  until  frothy, 
like  whipped  cream. 


SAMPLE    MENUS 
Containing  Raw  Foods  Only- 


Banana   Soup 

Osage  Melon 

Shallots  Celery 

Combination  Salad 

Morocco  Grapes        Assorted  Nuts 

Figs  Persimmons 


Cream  of  Celery  Soup 

Water  Cress  Carrots 

Banana  Salad 

with  Piquant  C'aeese  Balls 

Sliced  Tomatoes 

Unfired  Bread  Honey 

Orange  Ambrosia 


Cream  of  Apple  Sonp 

Water  Melon  Cup 

Tomatoes  Cucumbers 

Favorite  Salad 

Golden    Bantam    Sweet   Com 

(on  cob) 

Peach    Surprise 


Oatmeal  Fruit  Soup 

Olives      Chipped  Pineapple 

Cabbage  Cups  Grated  Carrots 

Cottage  Cbeese,   with   Chives 

Fruited  Whipped  Cream 


SAMPLE    MENUS 
Containing  Cooked  and  Baw  Foods 


Relishes 
Water  Cress  Green  Onions 

Salad 
Pineapple  Salad 

Vegetables 

Sweet    Potato    Nut    Roast 

Cream  Gravy 

Spinach  Mashed  Potatoes 

Dessert 

Tutti   Frutti   Ice   Cream 

Wafers 


Soup 
Cream  of  Tomato 

Relish 
Cucambers 

Salad 
Waldorf  Astoria 

Veqetablbs 
Egg  Plant  Souffle         Green  Beaas 

Dessert 
Rice  Pudding,  Cardinal  Sauce 


MENtTS 


8.^5 


Kklibhhs 
Celery                                    OUvea 

Soup 
Cream  of  Peas 

Salad 
French  Fruit  Salad 

Relishes 

ShaUots                                   Celery 

Salad 

Polnsetta  Salad 

Vegetables 

Sflnitarlum  Chop  Suey 

Green  Peas                       Potato  Puff 

Dessert 
Floating  Island 

Vegetables 
Corn  on  Cob            Brussels  Sprouta 

Dessert 

Concord  Grape  Pudding 

with  Cream 

Relishes 
New  Beets                                 Celery 

Sonp 
Consomme 

SAT.AD 

Pimento  Salad 

Relish 
Sliced  Spanish  Onions 

Salad 

Vegetables 
Hunsarian  Goulasch 

Escalloped  Corn 

Riced  Potatoes 

Shamrock  Salad 

Vegetables 

Sweet  Totato  Croquettes 

Tomato  Sauce 

Scotch  Kale              Stewed  Carrots 

Dessert 
Lemon  Foam 

Dessert 
Baked  Peaches 

Relishes 

Relish 

Celery                              Ripe  Olives 

Fruit  on  the  Half-Shell 

Salad 

Salad 

Piquant  Salad 

Greek  Salad 

Vegetables 

Vegetables 

Creamed  Cucumbers  on  Toast 

Buttered  Beets 

Potatoes  on  the  Half-Shell 

Turkish  Pilaf 

Escalloped  Tomatoes 

Schnlttbohnen 

Dessert 

Dessert 

Washington   Baked   Apples 

Delicate  Custard 

836 


NATURE   CURE   COOK   BOOK 

SAMPLE  MENUS — Continued 


SODP 

8t  Julias 

Relish 
Cranberry  Sauce 

Salad 
Casaba  Melon  Salad 

Vegetables 

Barley  Sausages,  Brown  Gravy 

Asparagus 

Desseqt 
Macaroon  Whip 


Croutons 


Sot;p 
Clear  Soup 

Relish 
Sliced  Tomatoes 

Salad 
Florida  Salad 

Vegetables 

Vegetable  Roast,  with  Onion  Kings 

English  Vegetable  Marrow 

Dessert 
Apple  Snow 


Relishes 
Tonus  Carrots 


Radlsbet 


Salad 

Lettuce 

with  Thousand  Islands  Dressing 

Vegetables 

Leipziger  Allerlei      Rlced  Potatoes 

Stuffed  Baked  Tomatoes 

Desseet 
Prune  Souffle 


Cucumbers 


Celery 


Salad 
Plum  Salad 

Vegetables 

Cabbage  with  Brown  Butter 
Green  Beans 
Baked  Sweet  Potatoes 

Desseut 
Lemon  Foam 


Relishes 
Green  Onions         Yellow  Tomatoes 

Salad 
French  Fruit  Salad 

Vegetables 

Lima  Beans  Parsley  Potatoes 

Escalloped  Tomatoes 

Dessert 
Chocolate  Pudding  with  Cream 


PART  II 

A  B  C  OF  NATURAL  DIETETICS 


CHAPTER  I 

TWO  SIDES  TO  EVERY  QUESTION 

Why  We  Favor  a  Vegetarian  Diet 

We  exclude  from  our  dietary  the  flesh  of  dead  ani- 
mals, because  it  doubles  the  work  of  our  organs  of 
elimination  and  overloads  the  system  with  animal  waste 
matter  and  poisons.  The  following  may  serve  to  ex- 
plain this  more  fully : 

Two  processes  are  constantly  going  on  in  every  ani- 
mal organism:  a  building  up  and  a  tearing  down 
process.  The  red  blood  carries  into  the  body  the  various 
elements  of  nutrition  and  comes  back  laden  with  poi- 
sonous gases,  broken-down  cell  material,  and  devital- 
ized food  products.  This  debris  is  carried  in  the 
venous  blood  to  the  various  organs  of  depuration  and 
excreted  in  the  form  of  feces,  urine,  mucus,  perspira- 
tion, etc.  Every  drop  of  venous  blood  and  every  bit 
of  animal  flesh  is  contaminated  with  these  poisonous 
excretions  of  the  animal  body — the  feces  of  the  cells. 
The  meat-eater,  therefore,  has  to  eliminate,  in  addition 
to  his  own  morbid  waste  products  those  of  the  animal 
carcass. 

Chemical  analysis  proves  conclusively  that  uric  acid 
and  other  uraemic  poisons  contained  in  the  animal 
body  are  almost  identical  with  caffein,  thein  and  nico- 
tine, the  poisonous  stimulating  principles  of  coffee,  tea 
and  tobacco.  This  puts  flesh  foods,  meat  soups  and 
meat  extracts  in  the  same  class  with  coffee,  tea,  alcohol, 
tobacco  and  other  poisonous  stimulants.     It  explains 

339 


840  NATURAL   DIETETICS 

why  meat  stimulates  the  animal  passions  and  why  it 
creates  a  craving  for  liquor,  tobacco  and  other  stronger 
stimulants. 

Not  long  ago  we  saw  a  father  in  high  glee  at  the 
sight  of  his  little  two-year-old  baby  boy  chewing 
busily  at  a  piece  of  rare  beefsteak,  the  blood  running 
from  the  corners  of  his  mouth.  Daddy  related  to  me 
proudly  that  baby  already  liked  his  coffee  as  well  as 
anybody  else  in  the  family.  Imagine  the  tender,  sensi- 
tive nervous  system  of  the  little  child,  from  the  cradle 
up,  over-irritated  with  these  powerful  stimulants! 
Well-informed  physicians  tell  us  that  a  very  large 
percentage  of  children  acquire  unnatural  sexual  habits 
before  they  leave  the  public  schools.    Is  it  any  wonder  ? 

It  must  also  be  taken  into  consideration  that  the 
morbid  matter  of  the  dead  animal  body  is  foreign  and 
uncongenial  to  the  excretory  organs  of  man;  in  other 
words,  that  it  is  much  harder  for  them  to  eliminate 
the  waste  matter  of  an  animal  carcass  than  that  of  the 
human  body. 

Moreover,  the  formation  of  ptomains,  or  corpse  poi- 
sons, begins  immediately  after  the  death  of  the  animal. 
This  is  a  serious  matter,  since  meat  and  poultry  is 
kept  in  refrigerators  for  many  months  and  sometimes 
for  years  before  it  reaches  the  kitchen,  green  and  livid 
looking,  and  sending  forth  suspicious  odors  which  have 
to  be  doctored  with  chemicals  and  spices. 

The  nobler  among  carnivorous  animals  devour  only 
freshly  slaughtered  prey;  it  remains  for  scavengers  of 
the  hog  and  hyena  type,  and  for  man,  to  feast  on  flesh 
long  cold  and  stark  and  tainted  by  the  odors  of  in- 
cipient decay. 

The  foregoing  statements  will  explain  why  even  the 
best  of  meats  are  detrimental  to  health,  but  the  danger 


TWO  SIDES  TO  EVERY   QUESTION  341 

becomes  much  greater  when  soup,  roast,  ham  or  sau- 
sage trace  their  origin  to  tuberculous  or  "lumpy-jaw" 
cattle,  or  to  scrofulous  or  cholera-infected  hogs.  Raw 
meat  is  especially  dangerous,  because  it  is  often  the 
source  of  trichinae,  tape-worms  and  other  parasitic 
infections. 

The  word  scrofula  is  derived  from  the  Latin  word 
**scrofa"  (sow),  indicating  that  the  ancients  recog- 
nized the  relationship  between  pork  eating  and  scrofu- 
lous diseases. 

Even  the  artificial  fattening  processes  to  which  the 
animals  are  subjected  in  order  to  increase  their  weight 
and  consequent  market  value  are  fraught  with  deleteri- 
ous effects  upon  the  meat  products  of  their  slaughter. 
It  is  a  well  recognized  fact  that,  in  most  instances,  a 
superabundance  of  flesh  on  the  human  animal  is 
synonymous  with  systemic  poisons  and  incipient  dis- 
ease. Why  should  we  expect  better  results  from  this 
unnatural  and  inhuman,  though  imquestionably  * '  profit- 
able," stuffing  treatment  inflicted  upon  cattle,  hogs, 
chickens,  etc.,  just  prior  to  their  conversion  into  food 
for  man? 

Still  other  powerful  influences  tend  to  poison  the 
flesh  of  slaughtered  animals. 

It  is  now  well  understood  that  emotions  of  worry, 
fear  and  anger  actually  poison  blood  and  tissues.  Fear 
and  anger  of  the  mother  poison  her  milk  and  through 
the  milk  her  nursing  babe.  The  bite  of  an  infuriated 
man  has  often  proved  as  poisonous  as  that  of  a  mad 
dog.  All  of  us  have  experienced  the  poisonous  and 
paralyzing  effects  of  worry  and  fear.  Animals  are 
instinctively  very  sensitive  to  approaching  danger  and 
death.  Fear  is  one  of  their  predominating  character- 
istics. 


342  NATURAL   DIETETICS 

How  excited  they  must  be  by  emotions  of  worry, 
anger  and  fear,  after  many  days  of  travel,  closelj' 
packed  in  shaking  cars — hungry,  thirsty,  tired,  scared 
and  angered  to  the  point  of  madness !  Many  die  before 
the  journey  is  ended ;  others  are  driven,  half  dead  with 
fear  and  exhaustion,  to  the  slaughter  pens,  their  in- 
stinctive fear  of  death  augmented  by  the  sight  and 
odor  of  the  bloody  shambles. 

Think  of  the  wounded  deer  and  rabbit  chased  by 
hounds  for  many  miles  before  death  ends  their  agonies. 

Arguments  of  the  Antis 

Arguments  in  favor  of  vegetarian  diet  are  usually 
met  with  such  brilliant  objections  and  criticisms  as, 
**Why  did  God  create  cows  and  hogs  if  they  were  not 
intended  for  us  to  eat?"  To  this  thoughtful  query 
we  sometimes  reply  by  asking  the  still  deeper  question, 
"Why  did  God  create  you  if  you  are  not  to  be  eaten?" 
Others  tell  of  the  man  who  eats  meat,  smokes  tobacco, 
drinks  coffee  and  brandy,  and  is  now  four  score  years 
old  and  in  perfect  health.  All  are  sure  that  our  argu- 
ments are  mere  theories  and  that  nobody  can  actually 
prove  the  truth  of  our  statements. 

The  fact  that  some  people  are  so  constituted  that 
they  can  withstand  the  injurious  effects  of  bad  habits 
for  many  years  does  not  imply  that  others  can  indulge 
with  the  same  impunity ;  that  the  hale  and  hearty  ones 
would  not  be  more  hale  and  hearty  without  the  poisons. 
Most  of  these  rugged  persons  owe  their  iron  constitu- 
tions to  favorable  heredity,  simple,  natural  surroundings 
and  frugal  fare  in  early  life.  Most  of  them  were  reared 
* '  on  the  farm, ' '  or  came  from  the  European  peasantry, 
who  are  practically  vegetarians.    Though  these  robust 


TWO  SIDES  TO   EVERY   QUESTION  343 

ones  may  endure  for  a  long  time  the  weakening-  influ- 
ences of  * '  high  living, ' '  their  offspring  have  to  pay  the 
penalty  in  bad  heredity. 

Careful  observation  discloses  the  interesting  fact  that 
the  descendants  of  these  hearty  pioneers,  when  exposed 
to  the  degenerating  influences  of  our  city  life,  become 
extinct  in  the  third,  fourth  or  fifth  generation. 

The  most  direct  and  positive  proof  that  meat-eating 
is  injurious  to  health  and  that  it  prevents  the  cure  of 
serious  chronic  ailments,  comes  to  us  in  everyday 
practice. 

Some  years  ago  there  came  to  us  for  treatment  a 
woman  whose  head  on  one  side  was  covered  by  a  can- 
cerous mass  of  large  proportions.  Her  troubles  started 
two  years  earlier  with  an  operation  for  the  removal 
of  a  wen,  "because  it  didn't  look  well."  Neither  she 
nor  the  learned  surgeon,  however,  took  into  considera- 
tion that  behind  the  wen  lurked  a  constitutional  psoric 
taint,  in  consequence  of  which  the  scar  left  by  the 
operation  soon  became  inflamed,  opened  and  began  to 
discharge  pus.  Four  different  times  the  wound  was 
operated  on,  but  in  spite  of  antiseptics,  cauterization, 
skin  grafting  and  everything  else  the  surgeons'  skill 
could  do,  it  would  not ' '  stay  healed. ' '  After  the  fourth 
operation  the  growth  became  so  large  and  malignant 
that  the  surgeons  were  at  the  end  of  their  wits.  They 
said  the  growth  had  developed  into  a  true  cancer  and 
dismissed  the  patient  as  incurable. 

In  this  state  she  came  under  our  treatment,  improved 
rapidly,  and  after  five  months  of  natural  living  and 
treatment,  when  scrofula  and  drug  poisons  were  thor- 
oughly eliminated  from  her  system,  the  grovsrth  had 
disappeared  and  the  wound  was  covered  with  healthy 
new  skin. 


344  NATURAL   DIETETICS 

Some  time  after  this,  however,  she  returned  and  re- 
ported that  the  wound  had  opened  once  more.  On 
catechising  her  we  found  that — tempted  by  other  mem- 
bers of  the  family — she  had  comineneed  to  eat  meat. 
Following  our  strict  advice  she  adhered  more  closely 
to  her  vegetarian  regime,  the  wound  immediately 
ceased  to  discharge,  and  healed  once  more.  Several 
times  after,  she  had  the  same  experience.  Whenever 
she  partook  of  meat  and  coffee  the  wound  would  open 
and  discharge. 

Another  case  which  came  under  our  treatment  was 
that  of  a  gentleman  about  thirty  years  of  age.  When 
we  first  attended  him  in  his  home  he  had  been  in  bed 
with  inflammatory  rheumatism  for  five  months.  He 
was  unable  to  use  his  limbs,  and  his  friends  had  given 
up  all  hope  of  recovery.  After  four  weeks  of  Nature 
Cure  at  home  he  was  able  to  come  for  treatment  to 
our  sanitarium;  two  months  later  he  was  apparently 
a  well  man.  There  was  only  some  inflammation  and 
swelling  in  his  right  foot,  which  made  walking  very 
painful.  For  three  months  afterward,  in  spite  of  vigor- 
ous Nature  Cure  treatment,  this  painful  lesion  would 
not  yield.  Then  we  became  convinced  that  something 
■was  wrong.  We  told  him  that  somehow  he  must  be 
violating  the  law;  if  our  treatment  was  good  enough 
to  cure  the  worst  of  his  ailments,  this  comparatively 
insignificant  symptom  should  also  yield. 

''Well,  doctor,"  he  answered,  "I  am  living  up 
strictly  to  directions,  but  I  have  been  taking  a  little 
meat  now  and  then,  and  I  smoke  one  or  two  pipes  of 
tobacco  a  day.    I  thought  this  could  not  harm  me." 

We  explained  to  him  that  his  system,  under  the 
influence  of  natural  living,  had  become  purified  to 
such  a  degree  that  it  was  sensitive  now  to  even  small 


TWO  Sn>ES  TO   EVERY   QUESTION  345 

quantities  of  poison;  that  there  was  just  enough 
uric  acid  and  nicotine  in  the  occasional  piece  of  meat 
and  pipe  of  tobacco  to  keep  the  weak  part  irritated 
and  inflamed.  He  followed  our  directions  more  con- 
scientiously, and  from  that  day  the  inflammation  began 
to  subside.    "Within  a  few  weeks  it  disappeared  entirely. 

Still  another  phenomenon  of  common  occurrence  con- 
firms our  opinion  that  meat-eating  is  neither  natural 
nor  necessary  to  man.  People  who  have  eaten  meat 
regularly  from  childhood  adopt  and  follow  under  our 
advice  a  strictly  rational  vegetarian  diet.  After  sev- 
eral months  of  meatless  regime  they  partake  of  some 
tempting  roast  or  fowl  and  are  very  much  surprised 
at  the  result  of  their  experiment.  They  find  that  the 
tempting  morsel  does  not  taste  as  they  anticipated. 
In  many  instances  they  experience  unpleasant  disturb- 
ances in  the  digestive  organs,  bad  taste  in  the  mouth, 
nausea,  diarrhoea,  and  similar  protests  against  un- 
natural food. 

One  may  cease  eating  bread,  fruits  or  vegetables  for 
many  years,  but  when  these  foods  are  again  taken 
there  is  never  a  sign  of  protest  on  Nature's  part;  on 
the  contrary,  they  are  relished  more  than  ever. 

Persons  who  have  broken  and  conquered  the  whis- 
key or  tobacco  habit  have  similar  experiences.  A  glass 
of  whiskey  or  a  cigar  taken  after  a  long  interval  of 
total  abstinence  nauseates  them  as  much  as  when  they 
first  began  to  drink  or  smoke.  They  have  to  learn  it 
all  over  again.  Complaints  like  the  following  are  quite 
familiar :  ' '  Why,  doctor,  this  simple  life  is  making  me 
so  weak  that  I  cannot  smoke  a  cigar  without  it  turning 
my  stomach  inside  out ;  it  makes  me  as  sick  as  a  green 
school-boy. ' ' 

These  acute  revulsions  are  not  due  to  a  weakening 


346  NATURAL   DIETETICS 

of  the  system,  but  to  the  fact  that  the  nervous  organism 
is  once  more  sensitive  and  strong  enough  to  revolt 
against  noxious  poisons  and  to  forcibly  eliminate  them. 
But,  after  repeated  indulgence,  the  sensory  nerves  be- 
come so  weakened  that  they  can  no  longer  protest, 
and  our  backslider  is  then  once  more  "strong  enough" 
to  enjoj'  his  steak,  smoke,  coffee  and  liquor. 

What  a  glorious  experience  (for  a  while)  this  return 
to  stimulants  becomes !  The  system,  under  the  purify- 
ing and  relaxing  influences  of  natural  living,  has 
become  so  pure  and  sensitive  that  it  fully  responds  to 
powerful  stimulants.  Our  recreant  friend  feels  so 
strong  and  buoyant  that  he  "floats  on  air."  He  won- 
ders how  he  could  have  lived  so  long  without  these 
"wonderful  tonics."  By  and  by  the  scene  changes. 
Brain  and  nerves  become  paralyzed  under  the  continual 
action  of  nicotine,  alcohol  and  uric  acid.  Morbid  mat- 
ter accumulates  and  clogs  the  wheels  of  life.  Bleary 
eyes,  trembling  hands,  weak  heart,  rheumatic  joints, 
fagged  brain  and  irritable  temper  soon  tell  the  result 
of  "eating  and  drinking  what  agrees  with  you."  The 
last  of  the  backslider  is  worse  than  the  first.  Too 
often,  weakened  and  discouraged  by  defeat,  he  lacks 
energy  and  moral  courage  to  make  another  stand. 
Physical,  mental  and  moral  degeneration  are  the  inev- 
itable results. 

Why  We  Sometimes  Deviate  from  a  Strictly  Vegetarian 

Diet 

At  different  times  I  have  expressed  the  opinion  that 
under  certain  circumstances  meat  eating  is  advisable. 
This  has  been  somewhat  of  a  shock  to  those  of  our 
vegetarian  friends  who  from  the  general  trend  of  my 


TWO   SIDES   TO   EVERY    QUESTION  347 

writings  may  have  supposed  that  I  was  an  out-and-out 
vegetarian. 

For  about  four  years  after  I  adopted  the  natural 
way  of  living  I  was  indeed  a  Simon-pure  vegetarian, 
and  would  not  have  recommended  meat  eating  under 
any  circumstances.  The  vegetarian  regimen,  together 
with  the  natural  method  of  treatment,  rescued  me  from 
seemingly  incurable  chronic  diseases,  and  in  the  Ger- 
man Nature  Cure  sanitariums  I  had  seen  many  others 
benefited  in  the  same  way.  Enthusiasm  over  the  re- 
covery of  my  health,  and  idealism,  led  me  to  believe 
that  meat  eating  was  invariably  to  be  condemned. 

Gradually,  however,  certain  instructions  from  a 
highly  respected  source,  together  with  my  own  observa- 
tions in  a  daily  practice  which  brought  me  into  con- 
tact with  all  sorts  and  conditions  of  human  ailments, 
caused  me  to  change  my  opinions  to  some  extent. 

What  Are  the  Indications  of  Meat  Requirement? 

In  this  country  ninety  per  cent  of  sick  people  suffer 
from  an  excessive  meat-and-egg  diet.  In  India  prob- 
ably the  same  percentage  of  sickness  is  caused  by  an 
excessive  cereal  diet.  Both  dietaries  lack  fruits  and 
vegetables  to  counterbalance  their  acid  producing 
tendencies.  The  American  is  positive  and  aggressive, 
the  Hindoo  negative  and  passive.  The  American  suf- 
fers from  uric  acid  and  phosphoric  acid  poisoning,  the 
Hindoo  more  from  carbonic  acid  poisoning. 

Because  in  this  country  the  great  majority  of  people 
are  uric  acid  poisoned  we  find  it  necessary  to  insist,  in 
most  cases  that  come  to  us  for  treatment,  on  a  strictly 
vegetarian  diet,  usually  including,  however,  the  dairy 
products,  in  order  to  maintain  the  nervous  equilibrium 
of  the  patients. 


348  NATURAL   DIETETICS 

Individuals  with  a  tendency  to  uric  acid  diseases  are 
usually  tense  and  positive  in  constitution  and  tempera- 
ment. They  incline  to  be  fleshy  and  florid,  and  belong 
to  the  bilious  and  sanguine  temperaments.  Before  their 
peculiar  diseases  overtake  them,  they  possess  an  over- 
abundance of  animal  spirits  and  sexuality.  In  char- 
acter they  are  aggressive,  dominating  and  persevering. 
Among  these  we  find  successful  business  men,  prom- 
inent lawyers  and  physicians,  forceful  politicians  and 
great  soldiers. 

At  the  opposite  extremes  from  the  tense,  fleshy,  uric- 
acid  poisoned,  apoplectic  individual  we  find  physically, 
the  emaciated,  flabby,  anemic  and  consumptive,  men- 
tally, the  negative,  apathetic  and  sensitive  psychic. 

Between  these  opposites  are  found  all  grades  and 
shades  of  physical  and  mental  positivity  and  negativ- 
ity, tension  and  relaxation,  aggressiveness  and  passive- 
ness.  To  give  all  these  the  same  dietary  treatment  does 
not  seem  rational  or  advisable. 

Our  friend,  the  raw  food  enthusiast,  will  say,  **A 
strictly  vegetarian  diet,  excluding  even  the  dairy  prod- 
ucts, will  supply'in  greatest  abundance  all  the  elements 
which  constitute  the  human  body."  This  may  be  per- 
fectly true,  but  food  materials  consist  of  something 
more  than  bare  elements.  The  elements  in  their  molec- 
ular combinations  hold  captive  the  life  elements.  As 
the  molecule  decomposes  in  the  processes  of  digestion, 
these  forces  are  liberated  and  supply  energy  to  the 
body.  The  same  combinations  of  elements  in  different 
food  materials  may  hold  in  latency  widely  varying 
values  of  vibratory  energy.  A  (C.  6.  H.)  combination 
in  a  molecule  of  animal  matter  may  be  possessed  of 
much  greater  vibratory  energy  than  a  (C.  0.  H.)  com- 
bination in  a  vegetable  molecule.     The  difference  de- 


TWO   SIDES   TO   EVERY    QUESTION  349 

pends  on  the  nature  of  the  life  elements  which  animate 
the  molecule. 

A  physically  negative  individual  may  reach  such 
a  low  stage  of  nerve  depletion  that  it  is  impossible 
for  him  to  muster  the  nerve  force  necessary  for  the 
elaboration  of  animal  magnetism  and  highly  organized 
nerve  fats  from  vegetable  foods.  Flesh  foods  contain 
these  nutritive  values  already  prepared  in  the  tissues 
of  the  animal,  and  therefore  it  may  be  of  advantage  to 
supply  these  in  the  ready-made  form,  at  least  tem- 
porarily, until  the  negative  organism  has  stored  up  a 
sufficient  supply  of  nerve  force  to  carry  on  properly 
the  work  of  digestion,  assimilation  and  elaboration  of 
vegetable  food  elements  into  the  highly  organized  brain 
and  nerve  fats  of  the  animal  organism.  Furthermore, 
great  physical  and  mental  depletion  always  means  ex- 
treme relaxation  of  tissues;  this  also  is  counteracted 
by  the  tensing  influence  of  the  acid  constituents  of 
flesh  foods. 

Physical  and  mental  negativity  do  not  always  go 
together.  A  person  may  be  physically  positive  and 
mentally  negative  and  vice  versa.  Purely  physical 
negativity  seldom  requires  meat,  but  depletion  of  ani- 
mal magnetism  and  exhaustion  of  brain  and  nerve 
force  usually  do  require  it.  In  some  cases  the  need  of 
flesh  food  may  be  only  temporary,  in  others  it  must 
be  supplied  permanently,  in  order  to  maintain  a  nor- 
mal amount  of  brain  and  nerve  force. 

"We  have  cured  hundreds  of  patients  suffering  from 
wasting  diseases  without  allowing  them  an  ounce  of 
meat.  Consumption,  chronic  indigestion  and  mal- 
assimilation  are  in  most  cases  caused  by  the  various 
forms  of  acid  poisoning  and  are  therefore  only  aggra- 
vated  by   an   increase    in   proteid   and    carbohydrate 


350  NATURAL   DIETETICS 

foods.  The  consumptive,  wasting  away  from  carbonic 
acid  poisoning,  needs  more  sodium  to  eliminate  the 
coal  gas  from  his  system,  and  more  iron  to  supply  him 
with  oxygen,  and  these  elements  can  be  furnished  in 
the  greatest  abundance  and  in  best  possible  combina- 
tions in  milk,  fruits  and  green  vegetables. 

In  some  cases,  however,  where  loss  of  flesh  and  phys- 
ical weakness  are  accompanied  by  great  exhaustion  of 
nerve  force,  I  find  the  addition  of  meat  to  the  dietary 
very  beneficial.  We  have  cured,  on  a  vegetarian  diet, 
many  patients  suffering  from  seemingly  incurable  wast- 
ing diseases,  when  there  was  loss  of  flesh  and  extreme 
weakness.  Naturally  they  became  enthusiastic  vege- 
tarians. Some  of  these  friends,  against  our  advice, 
discarded  even  the  dairy  products  and  others  lived  on 
a  strictly  fruit  and  nut  diet.  "With  the  exception  of  a 
few,  who  possessed  good  constitutions  of  the  positive 
animal  type,  these  extremists  sooner  or  later  developed 
signs  of  physical  and  mental  weakness  and  negativity. 
In  many  instances  there  resulted  a  loss  of  flesh  and 
strength,  accompanied  by  weakening  of  brain  and 
nerve  force.  In  other  instances  physical  conditions 
remained  satisfactory  but  there  resulted  decided  weak- 
ening of  mental  energy  and  nerve  force. 

At  one  time  I  received  a  letter  from  a  former  patient, 
who,  on  a  vegetarian  diet,  had  made  a  splendid  recov- 
erj'-  from  chronic  indigestion,  constipation  and  nerv- 
ousness. For  over  three  years  he  adhered  faithfully 
to  the  vegetarian  regimen  and  had  not  eaten  a  piece  of 
meat.  He  reported  that  physically  he  was  in  fine  con- 
dition and  normal  in  weight,  but  that  lately  he  had 
developed  peculiar  mental  and  nervous  symptoms. 

He  wrote,  '*I  am  developing  something  like  the  sleep- 
ing sickness;  I  am  losing  my  mental  energy;  I  go  to 


TWO    SIDES   TO    EVERY    QUESTION  351 

sleep  over  my  work  in  the  daytime ;  when  I  come  home 
in  the  evening  I  do  not  feel  like  reading  or  exerting 
myself  in  any  way,  physically  or  mentally.  I  am  losing 
all  ambition,  nothing  interests  me,  it  seems  to  me  that 
something  is  pressing  upon  my  eye-lids  and  keeping 
them  closed.  While  the  sleepiness  lasts  it  takes  all  my 
strength.  These  spells  last  for  three  or  four  hours  at  a 
stretch;  they  come  every  day  and  last  longer  each 
time;  have  passages  two  or  three  times  a  day;  use 
vegetable  foods  only  and  am  very  fond  of  them,  etc." 

I  advised  him  as  follows:  "You  have  gone  into 
the  extreme  of  a  vegetarian  diet;  you  have  neglected 
too  long  the  dairy  products  and  your  reserve  brain 
and  nerve  force  have  become  depleted;  eat  meat  once 
a  day,  together  with  plenty  of  raw  fruits  and  vegeta- 
bles, and  take  a  salt  rub,  morning  and  evening.  Report 
results. ' ' 

Within  a  week  he  wrote  to  me,  "Within  the  past 
few  days  I  have  not  had  any  sleepiness  and  I  am 
mighty  glad  of  it.  The  bad  taste  in  my  mouth  has 
disappeared,  but  my  tongue  is  still  slightly  coated.  I 
feel  considerably  stronger.  I  eat  meat  once  a  day,  but 
cannot  say  that  I  relish  it.  For  three  years  I  have 
been  eating  nothing  but  vegetables,  fruits,  nuts  and 
home-made  whole  wheat  bread.  The  meat  tastes  to 
me  like  old  rotten  wood,  and  causes  me  to  be  some- 
what constipated   (tensing  effect). 

**I  think  there  is  nothing  like  the  vegetarian  diet. 
I  have  not  lost  a  pound  of  flesh,  bowels  move  right 
along,  twice  or  three  times  a  day  (note  relaxing  effect 
of  vegetables).  The  worms  have  entirely  disap- 
peared." 

In  this  case  the  vegetarian  diet  evidently  furnished 
a  sufficient  amount  of  blood  and  tissue  building  ele- 


352  NATURAL    DIETETICS 

ments,  but  not  enough  brain  and  nerve  force.  The 
man  has  continued  to  improve  on  the  mixed  diet.  I 
believe  from  now  on  a  liberal  percentage  of  the  dairy 
products  in  his  daily  dietary,  together  with  uncooked 
fruits  and  vegetables,  will  be  sufficient  to  maintain  his 
nervous  equilibrium. 

Another  interesting  case  is  that  of  a  young  lady, 
who  came  to  us  two  years  ago  in  the  advanced  stages 
of  consumption.  Under  the  influence  of  our  natural 
treatment  and  a  rational  vegetarian  diet  she  made  a 
splendid  recovery.  All  symptoms  of  the  dread  disease 
gradually  disappeared  and  she  gained  somewhat  in 
weight,  A  year  after  she  began  the  treatment  she 
came  to  me  for  consultation,  saying,  "Doctor,  I  feel 
good  in  every  way,  but  I  am  losing  in  weight,  and  some- 
what in  strength;  what  would  you  advise  me  to  do?" 

I  answered,  "While  the  vegetarian  diet  served  its 
purpose  in  purifying  your  system  of  scrofulous  and 
tuberculous  taints,  it  has  failed  in  the  long  run  to 
supply  you  with  sufficient  nerve  force  and  animal 
magnetism;  consequently,  the  processes  of  digestion 
and  assimilation  begin  to  suffer,  resulting  in  loss  in 
flesh  and  strength.  For  a  while  eat  meat  once  a  day 
and  watch  results."  She  had  become  so  enthusiastic 
over  the  vegetarian  diet  that  she  was  loath  to  follow 
my  advice. 

Several  times  she  came  back  to  me  with  the  same 
complaints,  but  she  could  not  make  up  her  mind  to 
take  the  meat  until  her  weight  had  decreased  from 
96  pounds  to  80.  Then  she  became  sufficiently 
alarmed  to  follow  my  advice  and  ate  meat  three  or 
four  times  a  week.  She  has  done  this  now  for  about 
three  months  and  has  gained  eighteen  pounds,  two 
pounds  more  than  her  highest  weight  during  the  last 


TWO   SroES    TO   EVERY    QUESTION  353 

two  years.  She  has  regained  her  rosy  complexion, 
her  eyes  sparkle  with  new  life  and  she  is  much  stronger 
physically  and  mentally.  She  is  naturally  of  the  ex- 
tremely negative,  sensitive  type,  and  may  have  to  con- 
tinue to  eat  meat  occasionally  in  order  to  keep  herself 
in  normal  condition. 

In  view  of  this  convincing  evidence,  my  vegetarian 
friends  and  enthusiasts  will  understand  why,  although 
for  years  I  was  loath  to  admit  it,  I  have  come  now  to 
the  conclusion  that  in  certain  cases  meat  is  not  only 
advisable,  but  indispensable  to  the  maintenance  of 
mental  and  physical  equilibrium. 

The  results  of  my  own  experiments  with  a  mixed 
meat  and  vegetable  diet  on  certain  types  of  patients 
have  been  such  that  I  should  feel  guilty  if,  in  such 
cases,  I  were  to  refrain  from  prescribing  it  on  account 
of  idealistic  scruples. 

"Wherever  the  vitality  has  been  greatly  lowered 
through  heredity,  abnormal  habits  of  living,  suppres- 
sive treatment  of  diseases,  physical  over-strain  and 
mental  worry,  it  is  necessary  to  supplement  the  daily 
dietary  with  dairy  products,  and  in  some  instances, 
at  least  temporarily,  with  flesh  foods. 

A  healthy,  vigorous,  positive  organism  is  at  all  times 
capable  of  elaborating  from  the  products  of  the  vege- 
table kingdom  all  the  tissues,  fuel  materials  and 
electro-magnetic  energies  of  the  human  body.  But 
owing  to  unnatural  habits  of  living  and  suppression 
of  diseases  for  many  ages  past,  there  are  but  few  such 
lucky  individuals.  It  will  require  several  generations 
of  natural  living  and  more  congenial  social  surround- 
ings to  prpduce  the  perfect  human  type,  capable  of 
living  a  perfectly  natural  life. 

As  under  better  social  conditions  and  surroundings 


354  NATURAL   DIETETICS 

the  strain  and  drain  on  the  vital  energies  is  lessened, 
there  will  be  less  demand  for  the  animal  magnetism 
of  dairy  products  and  flesh  foods,  and  the  brutalizing 
customs  of  butchering  animaU  and  of  meat-eating  will 
become  a  thing  of  the  past. 

Only  a  few  generations  ago  the  manufacture  and 
use  of  alcoholic  beverages  was  looked  on  as  perfectly 
legitimate  and  honorable.  Today  both  have  fallen 
into  disrepute.  The  time  is  fast  approaching  when 
meat-eating  will  be  considered  as  degrading  as  the 
driak  habit. 

In  past  ages  man  had  little  choice  in  the  selection 
of  his  food.  He  was  forced  to  live  on  that  which  was 
available  and  convenient,  like  the  products  of  the  hunt 
and  the  herds.  Now,  that  railroads  and  steamships 
bring  to  our  doors  the  fruits,  nuts,  grains  and  vegeta- 
bles of  the  most  distant  regions  of  the  earth,  rational 
food  selection  has  become  a  possibility,  and  with  this 
humanity  is  beginning  to  sense  the  uncleanliness  of 
meat  eating.  Natural  Dietetics,  better  social  conditions 
and  finer  sensibilities  will  combine  to  make  it  obso- 
lete. 


CHAPTER  n 

IS  IT  WORTH  WHILE  TO  PAY  ATTENTION 
TO  DIET? 

Forethought  in  food  selection  and  combination  is 
indispensable  for  the  restoration  and  preservation  of 
health,  but  fearthought  at  the  table  will  poison  the 
most  wholesome  food  and  drink.  As  in  everything 
else,  it  is  well  to  avoid  extremes  and  to  stick  to  the 
common-sense  middle-way.  Many  of  our  modern  meta- 
physicians seem  to  think  that  by  a  sort  of  mental 
alchemy  they  can  transmute  the  elements  in  their  bodies 
or  create  them  out  of  nothingness. 

Divine  healers  say  to  us,  "Eat  and  drink  what  you 
please ;  pray ;  the  Lord  will  make  it  all  right. ' '  The 
Christian  Scientist  says,  "Dietetics  is  a  snare  and  a 
delusion.  Foods  cannot  harm  you  so  long  as  you  do 
not  think  they  can." 

I  doubt  whether  the  Lord  has  the  time  or  the  incli- 
nation to  make  good  continually  the  bad  results  of 
wrong  eating,  over-feeding,  and  food  poisoning. 
Neither  is  the  advice  of  the  doctor  and  the  "Scientist," 
"Eat  what  agrees  with  you,"  in  keeping  with  the  dic- 
tates of  common  sense,  or  with  the  findings  of  science. 

No  matter  what  we  try  to  produce,  whether  it  be  an 
apple  pie,  a  picture,  a  locomotive,  or  a  phonograph,  we 
all  know  that  in  the  making  of  these  or  any  other 
things  we  require  certain  materials  in  certain  well- 
defined  proportions. 

But  how  many  people  apply  this  self-evident  prin- 
ciple in  the  management  of  their  bodies? 

355 


356  NATURAL   DIETETICS 

The  wonderfully  constructed  human  machine  is  also 
composed  of  certain  materials  in  well-defined  propor- 
tions, of  which,  so  far,  seventeen  have  been  discovered 
by  chemical  science.  If  any  of  these  are  present  in 
over-abundance,  and  others  are  deficient  or  wholly 
lacking,  there  will  surely  result  abnormal  structure 
and  functions,  in  other  words:    disease. 

The  normal  composition  of  vital  fluids  and  tissues 
depends  upon  the  food  and  drink  that  is  taken  into 
the  system.  Therefore,  the  elements  of  nutrition  must 
be  provided  in  right  proportions  in  order  to  supply 
the  needs  of  the  body. 

But  is  it  not  a  fact  that  most  people  pay  no  attention 
whatever  to  these  obvious  truths?  They  take  into 
their  long-sutYering  stomachs  any  odd  combinations  of 
food  materials  without  the  slightest  consideration  as 
to  whether  they  ■\\dll  meet  the  manifold  requirements 
of  the  human  organism. 

The  only  question  in  the  selection  of  food  seems  to 
be,  "Does  it  taste  good?"  Then  people  wonder  why 
they  are  afflicted  with  dyspepsia,  chronic  constipation, 
appendicitis,  cancer,  and  the  multitude  of  other  ail- 
ments resulting  from  mal-nutrition  and  auto-intoxica- 
tion. 

The  majority  of  medical  practitioners  do  not  seem 
to  know  any  more  about  the  principles  of  natural 
dietetics  than  the  laity.  Their  advice  on  diet  runs 
about  as  follows:  "Do  not  pay  any  attention  to  food 
faddists — there  is  no  exact  science  of  dietetics — what 
is  one  man's  food  is  another  man's  poison — eat  what 
agrees  with  you — take  plenty  of  good,  nourishing  food 
— the  only  safe  guide  in  food  selection  is  appetite  and 
instinct,"  etc. 

Such  is  the  wisdom  dispensed  by  certain  popular 


IS    IT    WORTH    WHILE    TO    PAY    ATTENTION    TO    DIET!      357 

writers  on  hygiene  and  dietetics,  who,  blessed  with 
more  conceit  than  scientific  knowledge,  ridicule  the 
idea  and  deny  the  possibility  of  an  exact  science  of 
dietetics. 

"Eat  what  agrees  with  you."  If  this  be  good  and 
true  advice,  then  caffeine  must  be  good  for  the  coffee 
toper,  nicotine  for  the  smoker,  alcohol  for  the  drunk- 
ard, and  morphine,  cocaine,  opium,  etc.,  for  the  dope 
fiend.  For  these  poisons  seem  to  "agree"  exceeding 
well  with  the  people  habitually  addicted  to  their  use. 
If  suddenly  deprived  of  their  favorite  stimulants  or 
narcotics,  they  suffer  great  distress,  become  very  ill, 
and  may  even  die  as  the  result  of  such  deprivation. 

These  are  the  people  who  say,  "I  never  eat  fruits 
and  vegetables.  They  taste  flat,  they  do  not  agree 
with  me,  they  actually  sicken  me." 

This  would  seem  to  indicate  that  for  the  majority 
of  human  beings,  taste,  appetite  and  cravings  are  not 
safe  guides.      The  following  explains  why  this  is  so: 

The  animal,  living  in  freedom,  is  guided  in  the  selec- 
tion of  its  food  as  well  as  in  all  its  other  life  habits 
by  instinct,  that  is,  by  the  wisdom  of  Mother  Nature. 
Therefore,  the  animal  acts  in  accordance  with  the  laws 
of  its  being  and,  as  a  result  of  this,  possesses  perfect 
health,  strength  and  beauty,  preserves  its  faculties, 
capacities  and  powers  almost  to  the  very  end  of  its 
life,  and  then  dies  an  easy,  painless,  "natural"  death. 

Guided  by  Nature,  the  animal  selects  and  partakes 
of  only  those  foods  which  are  best  suited  to  its  par- 
ticular constitution.  The  lion  does  not  eat  grass,  nor 
does  the  cow  devour  the  bleeding  carcass  of  a  lamb. 
Each  animal  adheres  to  a  limited  combination  of  foods 
best  adapted  to  its  individual  needs. 

The  only  exceptions  to  this  are  a  few  onmivoroufl 


358  NATURAL   DIETETICS 

scavengers,  such  as  the  hyena,  vulture,  hog,  and 
chicken,  for  which  nothing  seems  too  vile  to  swallow. 
The  nobler  carnivorous  animals,  as  the  lion,  tiger, 
leopard,  etc.,  live  only  on  freshly-killed  meat.  They 
would  not  touch  the  carcass  of  a  dead  and  decaying 
animal. 

In  the  course  of  evolutionary -development,  Man  has 
lost  the  animal  instinct  and  therewith  the  faculty  for 
"natural"  food  selection.  Keason,  which  took  the 
place  of  instinct,  was,  in  the  past,  not  enlightened 
enough  to  be  a  trustworthy  guide  in  regulating  his  life 
habits.  Instead  of  following  the  dictates  of  reason, 
Man  catered  to  his  perverted  appetites. 

In  order  to  produce  artificial  stimulation,  he  learned 
to  use  spices  and  condiments,  to  convert  wholesome 
grains  and  delicious  grapes  into  alcohol.  He  became 
addicted  to  the  use  of  the  poisonous  xanthins  and  alka- 
loids of  coffee,  tea,  tobacco,  and  narcotic  drugs. 

Such  artificial  stimulation  of  the  taste  buds  in  the 
tongue  and  of  the  sensory  nerves  inevitably  results 
in  gradual  atrophy  and  loss  of  their  natural  sensi- 
tiveness, and  this  calls  for  still  stronger  stimulants  to 
"tickle"  the  paralyzed  nerves  and  the  no-longer-sensi- 
tive palate. 

It  is  for  these  reasons  that  people  addicted  to  the 
use  of  spices,  condiments,  stimulants  and  narcotics 
have  lost  the  capacity  for  "sensing"  and  enjoying  the 
most  delicate  aromas  and  flavors  of  fruits  and  vege- 
tables. 

This  brings  us  to  the  question :  % 

WHAT  IS  NATURAL  POOD? 

We  have  endeavored  to  define  this  term  as  follows: 
"•'Natural'  food  for  animal  and  Man  is  that  food 


IS    IT    WORTH    WHILE    TO    PAY    ATTENTION    TO    DIET?      359 

which  appeals  to  the  senses  of  sight,  taste  and  smell  in 
the  natural  condition,  as  it  comes  from  Nature's 
hands."  Any  food  which  needs  disguising  by  cooking, 
spicing,  pickling,  etc.,  is  not  "natural." 

For  instance,  fruits,  berries,  nuts,  vegetables,  and 
grains  can  be  eaten  with  relish  in  the  uncooked  state 
by  healthy,  normal  individuals.  This  is  true  even  of 
raw  potatoes,  carrots,  beets  a-nd  other  roots  which  are 
enjoyed  and  perfectly  digested  by  healthy  children. 

On  the  other  hand,  raw  meat,  uncooked  and  unspiced, 
is  revolting  to  the  sensory  organs.  Before  it  can  be 
relished,  the  taste  and  smell  of  the  corpse  must  be 
disguised  by  boiling,  roasting,  and  much  spicing. 

People  who  have  been  heavy  meat-eaters  all  their 
lives,  after  living  on  a  vegetarian  diet  for  a  few 
months,  frequently  acquire  a  strong  dislike  for  the  odor 
of  raw  meat  and  even  for  the  taste  and  odor  of  cooked 
meat.  This  is  not  true  in  the  case  of  grain,  roots, 
fruits  and  vegetables.  The  longer  a  person  is  forced 
to  abstain  from  these,  the  more  they  are  relished. 

In  making  the  foregoing  statements,  it  is  not  our 
intention  to  convert  our  readers  to  strict  vegetari- 
anism. But  as  we  proceed  in  our  discussions  we  shall 
endeavor  to  point  out  the  advantages  and  disadvan- 
tages of  different  foods  and  food  combinations.  The 
reader  can  then  form  his  own  conclusions  and  put  the 
theories  here  presented  to  the  test  of  practical  experi- 
ence. 

Someone  might  say,  "The  study  of  food  chemistry 
and  scientific  dietetics  is  too  difficult  for  the  ordinary 
individual.  We  have  to  leave  these  things  to  the 
doctors." 

This  is  a  mistake.  Nature  Cure  has  reduced  the 
teachings  concerning  the  art  and  science  of  Natural 


360  NATURAL   DIETETICS 

Dietetics  to  such  simplicity  that  they  can  be  compre- 
hended and  applied  by  anyone  endowed  \^^th  ordinary 
intelligence.  The  quest  after  a  normal,  natural  diet 
is  not  so  silly  and  impossible  as  some  people  would 
make  you  believe. 

Starving  America 

"Starving  America"  is  the  title  of  a  very  instruc- 
tive, recently  published  book  on  food  chemistry  and 
food  poisoning,  by  Alfred  W.  McCann. 

This  publication  shows  how  rapidly  the  teachings 
of  Nature  Cure  are  spreading  in  this  country.  All 
the  important  arguments  and  statements  of  the  author 
dealing  with  food  chemistry  were  fully  treated  in  my 
articles  on  "Natural  Dietetics"  in  the  Nature  Cure 
Magazines,  Vol.  1907-1909,  the  most  important  of  which 
are  incorporated  in  the  subject  matter  of  this  volume. 

"Starving  America."  It  sounds  rather  strange.  Is 
it  possible  that  this  glorious  country  of  ours,  blessed 
more  abundantly  by  Mother  Nature  than  any  other, 
the  richest  on  God's  footstool,  can  be  starving  amidst 
a  plethora  of  all  that  human  beings  need  to  live  and 
thrive  on  in  comfort  and  in  luxury  (provided  its  prod- 
ucts were  justly  distributed)  ? 

Yes,  it  is  not  only  possible,  but  an  actual  fact  that 
America  is  starving  amidst  plenty ;  not  only  its  inhabi- 
tants, but  in  many  localities  the  soil  as  well.  What 
is  strangest  of  all,  those  who  have  the  greatest  abund- 
ance in  lands  and  money  are  starving  just  as  much, 
and  possibly  more,  than  the  underpaid  and  overworked 
wage-earner.  In  many  instances,  the  wealthy  are  worse 
off  than  the  poor,  Decause  they  are  not  only  starved, 
but  also  poisoned  by  their  over-abundance  of  food  and 
of  leisure. 


IS    IT    WORTH    WHILE    TO    PAY    ATTENTION    TO    DIET?      361 

You  ask,  "What  is  the  meaning  of  all  this  non- 
sense?" It  is  this:  The  people  of  America  have  been 
overfed  with  starches,  sugars,  fats,  and  nitrogenous 
foods  (meat,  eggs  and  glutens),  but  starved  from  lack 
of  the  all-important  mineral  elements, — the  organic 
salts, — on  which  depend  absolutely  the  normal  struc- 
ture and  functions  of  the  body,  or  physical  and  mental 
health. 

The  public  in  general,  as  well  as  the  medical  schools, 
have  been  ignorant  on  the  subject  of  true  food  values 
and  of  true  food  chemistry.  Doctors  and  laymen  have 
labored  under  the  mistaken  idea  that  the  only  foods 
worth  considering  on  account  of  their  nutritious  value 
are  the  starches,  sugars,  fats  and  proteins.  The  most 
recent  works  on  dietetics,  used  in  our  best  medical 
schools,  take  into  consideration  these  foods  only.  They 
have  nothing  to  say  on  the  importance  of  the  mineral 
elements  in  the  economy  of  the  human  body. 

As  yet  it  has  not  become  generally  known  that  cer- 
tain alkaline  mineral  elements,  though  present  only 
in  minute  quantities  in  foods  and  in  animal  and  human 
bodies,  are  essential  to  life  and  health.  If  these 
"tissue  salts"  are  lacking  in  the  food,  and  if,  as  a 
result  of  this,  they  are  deficient  in  the  body,  disease 
is  bound  to  arise;  and  in  this  event,  overfeeding  on 
the  "nourishing"  starches,  sugars,  fats  and  proteins 
will  only  serve  to  make  matters  worse. 

These  statements  are,  of  course,  contrary  to  popular 
notions  and  to  the  pseudo-scientific  teachings  of  the 
schools.  They  say,  "If  a  person  be  weak,  sickly  and 
emaciated,  stuff  him  with  plenty  of  rich,  nourishing 
food."  This  is  held  to  be  good  and  common-sense 
practice ;  but  what  is  the  usual  result  ?  The  ' '  stuffed ' ' 
anemic  grows  stiU  weaker  and  thinner,  and  the  ' '  stuff- 


362  NATUEAL   DIETETICS 

ing"  of  the  consumptive  serves  only  to  make  his  con- 
dition more  hopeless.  The  very  abundance  of  meat  and 
eggs,  which  is  supposed  to  build  up  these  patients, 
poisons  their  system  beyond  the  possibility  of  recovery. 

To  be  sure,  starches,  sugars,  fats  and  proteins  meet 
certain  demands  and  fill  very  important  functions  in 
the  economy  of  the  body,  but,  on  the  other  hand,  they 
produce  in  the  processes  of  digestion  large  amounts  of 
poisonous  acids,  alkaloids,  gases  and  ptomaines. 

To  these  morbid  by-products  of  digestion  are  added 
the  excretions  or  feces  of  the  cells.  Furthermore,  the 
cells  and  tissues  of  the  body  are  constantly  changing, 
building  up  and  breaking  down,  just  like  the  body  as 
a  whole.  The  broken-down  tissue-materials  also  create 
large  quantities  of  morbid  matter  and  poisons.  Prac- 
tically all  diseases  arising  in  the  human  organism  are 
caused  originally  by  the  accumulation  of  these  effete 
waste  and  end  products  of  digestion  and  of  the  tissue 
changes. 

Therefore,  in  order  to  insure  normal  structure  and 
functions,  in  other  words,  "good  health,"  these  waste 
products  must  be  neutralized  and  eliminated  from  the 
system  as  promptly  and  as  completely  as  possible.  This, 
in  turn,  depends  upon  an  abundant  supply  in  blood 
and  tissues  of  the  alkaline  mineral  elements,  also  called 
nutritious  salts  or  tissue  salts,  the  most  important  of 
which  are  iron,  sodium,  lime,  lithia,  magnesium,  potas- 
sium and  silicon. 

These  mineral  elements  are  found  in  all  the  impor- 
tant secretions  of  the  body.  Upon  them  depends  the 
"richness"  of  the  blood  and  the  solidity  of  the  fleshy 
and  bony  structures.  They  are  the  building  stones  of 
the  physical  organism. 

The  science  of  biochemistry  deals  with  the  function! 


IS    IT    WORTH    WHILE    TO    PAY    ATTENTION    TO    DIET?      363 

of  these  mineral  salts  in  the  life-activities  of  the  ascend- 
ing kingdoms  of  Nature :  the  mineral,  the  vegetable,  the 
animal,  and  the  human.  Upon  this  science  is  based 
rational  soil  feeding  as  well  as  the  biochemic  treatment 
of  diseases  by  means  of  tissue  salts,  vitochemical, 
homeopathic,  and  herb  remedies.  Natural  diet  or 
rational  vegetarianism  is  based,  also,  upon  this  strictly 
scientific  foundation.  The  medicinal  values  of  the 
natural  foods  and  remedies  depend  upon  their  richness 
in  the  positive  mineral  elements. 

The  foregoing  explains  why  our  American  people  are 
starving  in  the  midst  of  plenty.  Their  ''highly  nutri- 
tious" and  *' luxurious"  meat-potato-white-bread-cof 
fee-and-pie  diet  contains  an  overabundance  of  th( 
poison-producing,  negative  food  elements  of  the  firsi 
four  groups  (see  pages  385a  and  385b),  but  it  is  alto- 
gether deficient  in  the  positive,  alkaline,  mineral  ele- 
ments of  the  fifth  group. 


CHAPTER  III 
FOR  WHAT  DO  WE  EAT  AND  DRINK? 

The  majority  of  people  would  reply,  "Why,  every- 
body knows  thp.t !  From  food  and  drink  we  derive  our 
strength. ' ' 

Are  you  so  sure  of  this?  Do  you  really  believe  that 
the  large  amount  of  animal  heat  and  vital  energy  which 
the  human  body  manufactures,  radiates,  and  expends 
every  twenty-four  hours  is  derived  from  the  few 
pounds  of  food  consumed  in  the  course  of  a  day? 

Any  hard-working  laborer  or  athlete  spends  in 
energy  the  equivalent  of  several  horsepowers  of  steam 
a  day.  A  healthy  individual  may  continue  to  do  this 
for  several  weeks  without  taking  any  food  whatever. 

This  has  been  proved  by  our  fasting  faddists.  Many 
of  these  "Marathon"  f asters  have  kept  up  their  regu- 
lar occupations  for  forty  days  or  longer  at  a  time  with- 
out showing  any  considerable  diminishing  of  strength 
and  without  the  slightest  difference  in  body  tempera- 
ture. 

It  may  be  argued  that  this  expenditure  of  animal 
heat  and  vital  energy  during  a  fast  takes  place  at  the 
expense  of  the  tissues  of  the  body,  which  are  consumed 
in  place  of  food.  However,  the  average  loss  in  weight 
during  a  strict  fast  does  not  amount  to  more  than  about 
one  pound  a  day.  How  can  one  pound  of  flesh  furnish 
the  fuel  material  necessary  to  supply  the  enormous 
amount  of  animal  heat  and  vital  energy  produced  and 

364 


FOB  WHAT   DO   WE   EAT   AND   DRINK?  365 

used  by  the  body  in  twenty-four  hours?  Then,  also, 
it  has  been  proved  that  in  the  performance  of  muscle 
labor  and  production  of  animal  heat  the  tissues  of  the 
body  are  not  consumed  but  only  the  nutriment  stored 
in  the  blood,  the  cells  and  the  muscle  fibres. 

To  cite  from  personal  observation:  One  of  our 
patients  suffering  from  typhoid  malaria  did  not  take 
any  food  except  water  for  seven  weeks.  At  the  end 
of  that  time  his  body  temperature  was  normal.  Dur- 
ing the  last  two  weeks  of  the  fast  he  lost  only  two 
pounds. 

Another  patient  afflicted  with  cancer  of  the  stomach 
lived  for  two  years  on  a  few  ounces  of  food  daily.  His 
temperature  was  normal  almost  to  the  last. 

Whether  sweltering  under  the  tropical  sun  of  the 
equator  or  freezing  with  arctic  cold,  the  temperature 
of  the  body  is  exactly  the  same.  If  it  drop  or  rise  a 
few  degrees  below  or  above  the  normal,  death  ensues. 

This  regulation  of  the  bodily  heat,  regardless  of  the 
surrounding  temperature,  and,  Avithin  certain  limits, 
regardless  of  the  quantity  and  quality  of  food  con- 
sumed, is  one  of  the  greatest  mysteries  of  the  wonderful 
human  organism. 

These  considerations  force  us  to  the  conclusion  that 
there  must  be  another  source  of  heat  and  energy  be- 
sides food.     This  is  indeed  the  case. 

In  order  to  understand  the  relationship  of  food  to 
vital  energy,  we  must  first  endeavor  to  get  a  clearer 
understanding  of  the  true  nature  of  "strength,"  ''vital 
force,"  and  of  "life"  itself. 

In  "Nature  Cure,  Philosophy  and  Practice"  I  have 
given  the  following  definitions  of  vital  force  from  two 
radically  opposed  viewpoints : 

"There  are  two  prevalent,  but  widely  differing  con- 


866  NATURAL    DIETETICS 

ceptions  of  the  nature  of  LIFE  or  VITAL  FORCE :  the 
material  and  the  vital. 

"The  former  looks  upon  life  or  vital  force  with  all 
its  physical,  mental,  and  psychical  phenomena  as  mani- 
festations of  the  electric,  magnetic,  and  chemical  activ- 
ities of  the  physical-material  elements  composing  the 
human  organism.  From  this  point  of  view,  life  is  a 
sort  of  'spontaneous  combustion,'  or,  as  one  scientist 
expressed  it,  a  'succession  of  fermentations.' 

"This  materialistic  conception  of  life,  however,  has 
already  become  obsolete  among  the  more  advanced 
biologists  as  a  result  of  the  wonderful  discoveries  of 
modern  science,  which  are  fast  bridging  the  chasm  be-' 
tween  the  material  and  the  spiritual  realms  of  being. 

"But  medical  science  as  taught  in  the  regular  schools 
is  still  dominated  by  the  old,  crude,  mechanical  con- 
ception of  vital  force  and  this,  as  we  shall  see,  accounts 
for  some  of  its  gravest  errors  of  theory  and  of  practice. 

"The  vital  conception,  on  the  other  hand,  regards 
life  as  the  primary  force  of  all  forces,  coming  from  the 
great  central  source  of  all  power. 

"This  force,  which  permeates,  heats  and  animates 
the  entire  created  universe,  is  the  expression  of  the 
divine  will,  the  'logos,'  the  'word'  of  the  Great  Creative 
Intelligence.  It  is  this  divine  energy  which  sets  in 
motion  the  whirls  of  the  ether,  the  electric  corpuscles 
and  ions,  that  make  up  the  different  atoms  and  ele- 
ments of  matter. 

"These  corpuscles  and  ions  of  which  the  atoms  are 
composed  are  positive  and  negative  forms  of  electricity. 
Electricity  is  a  form  of  energy.  It  is  intelligent  energy ; 
otherwise  it  could  not  move  with  that  same  wonderful 
precision  in  the  electrons  of  the  atoms  as  in  the  suns 
and  planets  of  the  sidereal  universe. 


FOR   WHAT   DO    WE   EAT   AND   DRINK?  367 

"This  intelligent  energy  can  have  but  one  source: 
the  will  and  the  intelligence  of  the  Creator,  as  Sweden- 
borg  expressed  it,  'the  great  central  sun  of  the  uni- 
verse.' 

"If  this  supreme  intelligence  should  withdraw  its 
energy  then  the  electrons  and  ions  (electrical  charges), 
and  with  them  the  atoms,  elements, — the  entire  material 
universe — would  disappear  in  the  flash  of  a  moment. 

"From  this  it  appears  that  crude  matter,  instead  of 
being  the  source  of  life  and  of  all  its  complicated  men- 
tal and  spiritual  phenomena  (which  assumption,  on 
the  face  of  it,  is  absurd),  is  only  an  expression  of  the 
Life  Force,  itself  a  manifestation  of  the  Great  Creative 
Intelligence  which  some  call  God,  others  Nature,  the 
Oversoul,  Brahma,  Prana,  etc. — each  according  to  his 
best  understanding. 

"It  is  this  supreme  power  and  intelligence,  acting 
in  and  through  every  atom,  molecule  and  cell  in  the 
human  body,  which  is  the  true  healer,  the  'vis  medica- 
trix  naturae, '  which  always  endeavors  to  repair,  to  heal, 
and  to  restore  the  perfect  type.  All  that  the  physician 
can  do  is  to  remove  obstructions  and  to  establish  nor- 
mal conditions  within  and  around  the  patient,  so  that 
'the  healer  within'  can  do  his  work  to  the  best  advan- 
tage." 

This  life  force  is  the  primary  source  of  all  energy, 
from  which  aU  other  kinds  and  forms  of  energy  are 
derived.  It  is  as  independent  of  the  body  and  of  food 
and  drink  as  the  electric  current  is  independent  of  the 
glass  bulb  and  the  carbon  thread  through  which  it 
manifests  as  heat  and  light.  The  breaking  of  the  in- 
candescent bulb,  though  it  extinguishes  the  light,  does 
not  in  any  way  diminish  the  amount  of  electricity 
back  of  it. 


368  NATURAL   DIETETICS 

In  similar  manner,  if  the  physical  body  should  "fall 
dead,"  as  we  call  it,  the  vital  energy  keeps  on  acting 
with  undiminished  force  through  the  spiritual-material 
body,  which  is  an  exact  duplicate  of  the  physical 
body,  but  whose  material  atoms  and  molecules  are 
infinitely  more  refined  and  vibrate  at  infinitely  greater 
velocities  than  those  of  the  physical-material  body. 

This  is  not  merely  a  matter  of  faith  or  of  speculative 
reasoning,  but  a  demonstrated  fact  of  Natural  Science. 

When  St.  Paul  said  (1  Cor.  15:44):  "There  is  a 
natural  (pliysical)  body,  and  there  is  a  spiritual  body," 
he  stated  an  actual  fact  in  Nature. 

Indeed,  it  would  be  impossible  to  conceive  of  the 
survival  of  the  individuality  after  death  without  a 
material  body  which  serves  as  the  vehicle  for  conscious- 
ness, memory,  and  the  reasoning  faculties,  and  as  an 
instrument  for  the  physical  functions.  Without  a  body, 
it  would  be  impossible  for  the  soul  to  manifest  itself 
to  other  souls  or  to  communicate  with  them. 

Therefore,  if  survival  of  the  individuality  after  death 
be  a  fact  in  Nature,  and  if  the  achievement  of  immor- 
tality be  a  possibility,  a  spiritual-material  body  is  a 
necessity. 

Some  one  may  say,  "If  the  life  force  is  independent 
of  the  physical  body  and  of  food  and  drink,  why  do  we 
have  to  eat  and  drink  to  keep  alive?" 

The  answer  to  this  is :  Food  and  drink  are  necessary 
to  keep  the  organism  in  the  right  condition,  so  that 
vital  force  can  manifest  and  operate  through  it  to  the 
best  advantage.  To  this  end  food  is  needed  to  build  up 
and  to  repair  the  tissues  of  the  body.  It  also  serves 
to  a  certain  extent  as  fuel  material,  which  is  trans- 
muted into  animal  heat  and  vital  energy. 

It  is  true  that  during  the  processes  of  digestion  and 


FOB  WHAT  DO   WE   EAT   AND   DRINK?  369 

combustion  (breaking  down  of  food  materials),  a  cer- 
tain amount  of  animal  heat  and  vital  energy  is  liber- 
ated; but,  as  we  pointed  out  in  the  foregoing  para- 
graphs, this  does  not  account  for  all  the  animal  heat 
and  vital  energy  expended. 

Furthermore,  just  as  coal  has  to  come  in  touch  with 
fire  before  it  can  be  transmuted  into  heat,  so  the  life 
force  is  needed  to  "burn  up"  or  "to  explode"  the  fuel 
materials.  When  "life"  has  departed,  even  large 
amounts  of  sugars,  fats,  proteins,  tonics  and  stimulants 
are  not  able  to  produce  one  spark  of  vital  energy  in 
the  body. 

On  the  contrary,  digestion,  assimilation  and  elimina- 
tion of  food  and  drink  require  the  expenditure  of  con- 
siderable amounts  of  vital  energy.  Therefore  all  food 
taken  in  excess  of  the  actual  needs  of  the  body  wastes 
vital  force  instead  of  giving  it. 

If  these  facts  were  more  generally  known  and  appre- 
ciated people  would  not  habitually  overeat  under  the 
mistaken  idea  that  their  vitality  increases  in  proportion 
to  the  amount  of  food  they  consume;  neither  would 
they  believe  that  they  can  derive  "strength"  from 
poisonous  stimulants  and  tonics.  They  would  not  be 
so  much  afraid  of  fasting.  They  would  understand 
better  the  necessity  of  fasting  in  acute  diseases  and 
"healing  crises,"  and  avail  themselves  more  frequently 
of  this  most  effective  means  of  purification.  They 
would  no  longer  believe  themselves  in  danger  of  dying 
if  they  were  to  miss  a  few  meals. 

So  far  we  have  answered  the  question,  "For  what 
do  we  eat  and  drink,"  in  the  negative  Now  we  shall 
study  the  real  functions  of  food  and  drink  in  the 
economy  of  the  body. 


CHAPTER  IV 

THE  FUNCTIONS  OF  FOOD  AND  DRINK  IN  THE 
ECONOMY  OF  THE  BODY 

Food  and  drink  perform  the  following  functions  in 
the  vital  processes  of  the  body: 

(1)  They  furnish  the  necessary  amount  of  water 
in  order  to  hold  in  solution  the  constituent  elements  of 
the  body  and  to  make  possible  the  circulation  of  the 
vital  fluids  and  the  elimination  of  waste  and  morbid 
matter. 

(2)  They  supply  bulk  in  the  form  of  cellulose  and 
woody  fibre,  which  offer  solid  resistance  to  the  intes- 
tines, thereby  stimulating  the  peristaltic  movements 
of  the  bowels  and  acting  as  scourers,  purifiers  and  laxa- 
tives. 

(3)  They  provide  fuel  materials. 

(4)  They  provide  materials  for  the  building  and  re- 
pair of  the  tissues  of  the  hody. 

(5)  They  supply  the  positive,  mineral  salts,  which 
are  important  as  building  materials,  neutralizers,  and 
eliminators  of  poisonous  acids,  alkaloids  and  ptomaines, 
and  essential  to  the  production  and  distribution  (con- 
ductors) of  the  electro-magnetic  energies  in  the  system. 

We  shall  now  consider  separately  these  various  func- 
tions of  food  materials  in  the  economy  of  the  body  in 
connection  with  our  classification  of  foods. 

370 


THE  FUNCTIONS   OP   FOOD   AND   DRINK  371 

GROUP  I.    (St.)  (C.O.H.)  Starches.    GROUP  U.  (S.) 
(C.O.H.)  Sugars  and  Dextriues 

The  foods  belonging  to  these  two  groups  are  called 
carbohydrates,  because  their  essential  elements  are 
carbon  and  hydrogen.  When  chemically  pure  they  are 
composed  of  carbon,  hydrogen  and  oxygen.  The  oxygen 
and  hydrogen  occur  in  proportions  which  form  water 
(H2O).  These  foods  are  to  the  human  body  what  the 
fuel  is  to  the  furnace :  they  are  producers  of  heat  and 
energy.  Through  the  processes  of  digestion  the  starches 
are  changed  into  dextrines  and  sugars,  and  absorbed 
in  the  digestive  tract.  They  can  enter  the  circulation 
of  the  blood,  through  the  cell  linings  of  the  intestines, 
only  in  the  forms  of  dextrose  and  glucose.  These  sub- 
stances are  burned  up  in  the  tissues  of  the  body  and 
help  to  produce  animal  heat,  muscular  and  other  forms 
of  energy. 

"We  say  "help  to  produce"  advisedly,  because  prac- 
tically all  writers  on  food  chemistry,  including  those 
of  the  Nature  Cure  School,  claim  that  sun  heat  and 
energy,  latent  in  carbonaceous  foods,  is  the  only  source 
of  heat  and  energy  in  animal  and  human  bodies. 

This,  however,  as  we  have  pointed  out  in  another 
chapter,  is  a  great  mistake  which  has  led  to  many  false 
conclusions  and  harmful  practices, — especially  to  over- 
eating and  the  taking  of  poisonous  stimulants  and 
tonics,  under  the  mistaken  idea  that  vital  energy  can 
be  increased  in  that  way.  The  fallacy  of  this  concep- 
tion of  the  source  of  animal  heat  and  energy  we  have 
already  explained  under  the  caption,  "For  what  do  we 
eat  and  drink?" 

In  order  to  understand  this  all-important  problem 
more  fully  let  us  study  for  a  moment  what  combus- 


372  NATUILVL   DIETETICS 

tion  is:  The  processes  of  "burning,"  "combustion," 
"fermentation,"  "digestion,"  "rusting,"  "decaying," 
"putrefying,"  etc.,  are  similar  in  nature.  They  are 
all  processes  of  oxidation.  They  dijffer  only  in  rapidity 
of  action.  They  all  represent  the  breaking  down  of 
complex  materials  into  simpler  forms,  through  the  com- 
bination of  the  oxygen  in  the  air  with  the  carbon  in 
the  "oxidizing"  materials.  This  disintegration  is  ac- 
companied by  the  chemical  combination  of  the  oxygen 
of  the  air  with  the  carbon,  the  iron,  or  some  other  ele- 
ment of  the  burning,  fermenting,  putrefying,  or  rusting 
substance.  During  these  processes  of  disintegration, 
the  carbon  recombines  with  the  oxygen  of  the  air 
(combustion)  and  the  latent  life  energy  and  sun  heat 
are  liberated  and  furnish  heat,  light  and  other  forms 
of  energy. 

The  Sources  of  Animal  Heat 

A  man  may  eat  in  the  right  proportions  all  the  seven- 
teen chemical  elements  found  in  his  body.  He  may  also 
take  a  sufficient  amount  of  air  and  water.  Yet  he  will 
surely  die.  In  fact,  some  of  these  elements,  instead 
of  nourishing  him,  -will  act  on  him  as  poisons.  Experi- 
ments carried  on  by  German  food  scientists  have  demon- 
strated that  even  some  of  the  proximate  food  elements, 
when  chemically  pure,  will  not  sustain  animal  or  human 
life.  Animals  fed  on  chemicallj''  pure  starch  or  white 
sugar  die  sooner  than  those  which  receive  no  food  at  all. 

This  clearly  indicates  that  not  the  various  chemical 
elements  found  in  food  and  drink,  in  and  by  them- 
selves create  animal  heat  and  sustain  animal  and  human 
life,  but  that  life,  heat  and  energy  depend  on  some- 
thing more  than  these. 

What  is  this  mysterious  something  which  builds  up 


THE  FUNCTIONS  OP  FOOD  AND  DRINK  373 

and  sustains  vegetable,  animal  and  human  bodies  ?  The 
majority  of  scientists  assume  that  the  sun  supplies  all 
heat  and  energy  on  our  planet;  that  sun  light  and  sim 
heat  are  the  only  sources  of  vegetable  and  animal 
energy. 

The  fallacy  of  their  reasoning  is  due  to  the  fact  that 
the  forces  and  energies  latent  in  and  proceeding  from 
the  sun  are  not  by  any  means  the  highest  expressions 
of  life  or  vital  force  on  this  planet.  That  which  we 
call  "life,"  which  animates  the  entire  created  universe, 
is  the  primary  source  of  all  forces  and  all  energies. 
Sun  energy  is  merely  a  manifestation  of  this  primary 
force  of  all  forces,  which  manifests  with  increasing 
potency  in  the  ascending  kingdoms  of  Nature. 

This  primary  Life  Force  or  Vital  Force  manifests 
in  the  mineral  kingdom  as  the  electro-magnetic  life 
element,  in  the  vegetable  kingdom  as  the  vito-chemical 
life  element,  in  the  animal  kingdom  as  the  spiritual 
life  element,  and  in  the  human  kingdom  as  the  soul  life 
element.  These  life  elements,  in  conjunction  with  the 
light  and  heat  (radio  active  forces)  of  the  sun,  elab- 
orate the  elements  of  the  earth  and  air  into  the  ascend- 
ing forms  of  the  four  kingdoms  of  Nature. 

In  other  words,  life  or  vital  force  is  the  builder, 
while  sun  energy  is  only  one  of  the  building  materials ; 
life  force  is  primary,  sun  energy  secondary.  The  more 
powerful  the  vital  energy  which  builds,  the  more  potent 
the  latent  dynamics  or  potential  force  of  the  products. 
Coal,  though  classed  among  the  minerals,  possesses  in- 
finitely greater  heat  and  energy-producing  qualities 
than  other  minerals,  because  originally  its  molecules 
were  elaborated  under  the  influence  of  the  vito-chem- 
ical or  vegetable  life  element.  The  animal  cell,  being 
built  up  under  the  operation  of  the  spiritual  or  animal 


374  NATURAL    DIETETICS 

life  element,  is  alive  with  still  higher  potencies  of  vital 
force  than  those  latent  in  the  vegetable  cell.    . 

The  energy  -which  builds  up  molecules  becomes  bound 
or  latent  in  that  which  it  builds.  This  is  illustrated 
in  the  formation  of  ice  and  coal. 

The  low  temperature  which  solidifies  the  molecules 
of  water  is  absorbed  and  becomes  bound  or  latent  in 
the  icy  cr5^stals  which  it  builds.  "When  the  particles  of 
ice  distiutegrate  under  the  influence  of  warmer  tem- 
perature, "cold"  is  liberated  in  our  refrigerator. 

In  similar  manner,  the  heat  which  gives  warmth  and 
comfort  to  our  homes  in  the  winter  time  is  vital  force 
(vito-chemical),  plus  the  sun-light  and  sun-heat  which 
were  absorbed  in  the  formation  of  vegetable  cells  in 
the  growing  plants  and  trees  of  primeval  forests. 

Vital  force  corresponds  to  fire ;  food  corresponds  to 
fuel.  If  the  life  force  has  departed  from  an  animal  or 
human  body,  no  amount  of  food  can  create  animal  heat. 
As  the  fuel  in  the  furnace  has  to  be  consumed  by  fire 
before  it  can  liberate  heat,  so  the  food  in  the  body  has 
to  be  consumed  by  the  life  force  before  its  latent  heat 
and  energy  can  be  liberated. 

When  in  the  processes  of  digestion  and  assimilation 
the  latent  energies  stored  in  the  food  have  been  liber- 
ated and  absorbed  by  the  body,  nothing  remains  of  the 
erstwhile  food  but  poisonous  excrements  which,  if  not 
properly  eliminated,  become  destructive  to  the  organ- 
ism,— the  organic  has  become  inorganic.  When  the  life 
principle  is  taken  away  from  food  materials  nothing 
remains  but  waste  and  poison. 

Vegetable  and  animal  food  are  therefore  foods  only 
by  virtue  of  the  vital  and  solar  energy  locked  up  in 
their  molecules.  As  soon  as  the  vegetable  or  animal 
molecules  disintegrate  by  any  process  whatsoever,  their 


THE  FUNCTIONS  OF  FOOD  AND  DRINK  375 

vital  energy  is  dissipated  and  lost.  This  explains  why 
boiling,  baking  and  frying  wastes  food  energy;  why 
fermentation  changes  wholesome  foods  into  poisonous 
alcohol;  why  "predigested  foods"  are  weakened  foods. 
The  meddling  art  of  the  cook,  chemist  and  distiller, 
therefore,  seldom  improves  upon  Nature's  foods,  and 
the  chemist's  dream,  that  all  foods  will  some  day  be 
made  in  his  laboratory  and  handed  out  in  tablet  form, 
will  always  remain  a  dream. 

Among  modern  writers  who  boldly  defend  the 
mechanical  theory  of  vital  force,  no  one  has  done  more 
ingenious  work  than  Dr.  Thomas  Powell  in  his  inter- 
esting book,  "Fundamentals  and  Requirements  of 
Health  and  Disease." 

Therefore,  I  shall  quote  and  discuss  his  theory  in 
order  to  contrast  the  mechanical  and  vital  conceptions 
of  vital  force. 

Among  other  startling  claims,  he  asserts  that  he  has 
discovered  the  nature  and  the  modus  operandi  of  vital, 
or,  as  he  calls  it,  "  vito-motive "  force. 

The  substance  of  his  theory  is  this :  The  red,  arterial 
blood  stores  carbonaceous  compounds  in  the  interior  of 
the  muscle  fibrils.  When  the  Ego  wills  to  move  a 
muscle,  the  mind  (will)  sends  a  nerve  spark  to  the 
muscle  fibrils.  This  ignites,  or  explodes,  the  C.  0.  H. 
molecules  stored  in  the  fibril.  The  combustion  of  the 
carbon  compounds  produces  carbonic  acid.  The  car- 
bonic acid  expands  the  muscle  fibril  into  a  round, 
balloon-like  shape.  This  shortens  or  contracts  the 
fibrils  lengthwise.  The  contraction  of  the  muscle 
fibrils  also  contracts  the  muscle  fascia,  and  the  muscle 
in  its  entirety.  Therefore,  he  claims  that  carbonic 
acid  is  the  mysterious  vito-motive  power  which  so  long 
has  eluded  the  search  of  scientists. 


376  NATUR^iL   DIETETICS 

In  Older  to  present  his  theory  correctly,  I  shall  quote 
a  few  paragraphs  from  his  book. 
Page  189. 

' '  The  facts  which  are  involved  in  the  transformation 
of  the  potential  energy  of  the  food  into  the  kinetic 
form,  as  we  find  it  in  the  vito-motive  power,  cannot 
be  too  deeply  impressed  upon  the  mind;  hence  it  will 
be  well  to  repeat:  1.  The  nutrient  matter  stored  in 
the  cells  in  the  consummation  of  the  nutritive  process, 
consisting  as  it  does  of  a  most  intimate  comminglemeut 
of  food  and  oxygen — of  a  combustible  with  a  supporter 
of  combustion — is  in  a  state  of  extremely  unstable 
equilibrium,  and  is,  therefore,  nothing  more  nor  less 
than  a  delicately  balanced  explosive  of  high  potential ; 
2.  The  carbon  and  oxygen  thus  intimately  associated 
is  brought  into  chemical  combination  by  act  of  the 
will  expressed  by  means  of  the  nerves  and  nervous  in- 
fluence; 3.  Whenever  the  will  so  orders,  an  explosion 
must  occur  in  every  cell  which  is  included  in  or  reached 
by  the  volitional  edict;  4.  The  carbon  dioxide  thus 
generated  within  the  cells  forces  them  to  expand  and 
in  a  direction  which  is  transverse  to  the  longer  axis 
of  the  fibril,  this  being  the  line  of  least  resistance,  as 
above  explained ;  5.  The  expanding  cells  impinge  upon 
the  inner  surface  of  the  fascia,  forcing  it  to  yield  in 
like  manner  and  for  the  same  reason,  thus  producing 
that  transverse  expansion  and  longitudinal  shortening 
of  a  muscle  on  which  the  physical  activities  of  the  body 
chiefly  and  evidently  depend,  as  above  stated.  In 
short,  the  will  acts,  the  nutrient  matter  explodes,  the 
cells  expand,  the  fascia  yields,  the  muscle  contracts, 
and  the  vital  machinery  is  set  in  motion;  not,  how- 
ever, in  consequence  of  'metabolism'  of  the  'white 
blood  corpuscle, '  but  of  the  red ;  not  by  reason  of  the 


THE  FUNCTIONS  OF  FOOD  AND  DRINK  377 

'metamorphosis'  of  the  tissues  of  the  body,  but  of 
food;  not  by  the  energy  of  'resurrected  sunbeams' 
nor  of  any  other  immaterial  agency,  but  of  expanding 
carbon  dioxide  gas;  not  in  consequence  of  the  pres- 
ence of  nitrogen  in  the  food  nor  of  any  other  incom- 
bustible element,  but  of  carbon,  and  this  not  from  the 
inorganic  world,  but  the  organic ;  not  by  a  product  of 
any  laboratory  of  human  origin,  but  of  the  plant  world 
— that  immeasurably  greater  concern  which  was  insti- 
tuted by  the  All- Wise-Being,  and  for  the  express  pur- 
pose of  effecting  the  separation  of  those  elements — 
carbon  and  oxygen  from  whose  reunion  within  the 
nutritive  cells  of  the  living  organism  must  come  all 
the  energies,  physical,  nervous  and  thermal  of  the 
entire  domain  of  animated  nature." 
Page  222. 

"It  shows  that  the  doctrine  of  'vis  vitae,'  held  by 
Liebig  and  his  contemporaries,  and  recently  revised  to 
some  extent,  is  utterly  erroneous;  that  while  it  is  true 
that  there  is  an  ego  or  inherent  vital  principle,  it  is 
also  true  that  the  movements  of  the  living  organism 
are  due  to  the  intra-cellular  production  and  action  of 
the  vito-motive  power — that  energy  displaying  agent 
which  is  known  to  science  as  carbon  dioxide,  and  to  the 
world  at  large  as  carbonic  acid  gas.     .     .     ." 

I  do  not  understand  why  Dr.  Powell  does  not  give 
hydrogen  credit  for  the  work  performed  in  the  muscle 
fibrils,  as  well  as  the  carbonic  acid.  In  the  combus- 
tion of  carbonaceous  compoimds,  such  as  glycogen,  dex- 
trose, glucose  and  hemoglobin,  a  great  deal  of  hydro- 
gen is  liberated,  as  well  as  carbonic  acid,  and  the 
former  gas  is  more  powerful  to  expand  balloons  than 
carbonic  acid. 

If  Dr.  Powell's  ingenious  theory  of  muscle  inflation 


378  NATURAL   DIETETICS 

and  contraction  by  carbonic  acid  is  trne  he  has  onlj 
discovered  the  modus  operandi  of  carbon  combustion 
in  so  far  as  it  is  concerned  in  the  production  of  mus- 
cular energy.  But  he  has  failed  to  discover  the  great 
Life  Force  which  elaborates  the  carbon  compounds 
in  the  vegetable  and  animal  kingdom  and  which  ignites 
and  explodes  them  in  the  cells  and  muscle  fibrils  of 
animal  and  human  bodies. 

If  no  immaterial  agency  is  concerned  in  the  produc- 
tion of  muscular  labor  and  of  animal  heat,  how  does 
he  explain  that  these  manifestations  of  kinetic  energy 
suddenly  cease  when  the  life  element  departs,  when 
death  takes  place?  When  the  body  is  dead,  muscle 
labor  and  heat  production  cease,  though  the  corpse 
be  heated  far  beyond  the  normal  temperature  of  the 
living  body,  and  though  the  material  elements  for  the 
production  of  heat  and  energy  are  present  as  before. 
The  question  which  the  doctor  has  failed  to  answer  is : 
"What  is  it  that  makes  possible  the  combustion  of  the 
carbon  compounds  and  the  production  of  carbonic 
acid  gas? 

Elated  over  the  discovery  of  the  very  last  stage  of 
muscle  labor,  he  ignores  the  Intelligence  and  Power 
which  created  the  fuel  material,  as  well  as  the  wonder* 
ful  organism  which  consumes  it — the  "Life"  or  "Vital 
Force"  which  animates  the  atom  as  well  as  solar  sys- 
tems and  their  sentient  inhabitants. 

It  is  not  true  that  carbonic  acid  is  the  great  vito- 
motive  force.  This  gas  may  be  the  motive  force  in 
the  rendering  of  muscle  labor,  but  the  nerve  spark 
which  produces  it  through  igniting  the  carbon  com- 
pounds, and  the  Mind  and  Will  who  release  the  nerve 
spark  or  impulse  are  much  nearer  and  more  potent 
expressions  of  the  Great  Life  Force  than  carbonic  acid 


THE  FUNCTIONS  OF  POOD  AND  DRINK  379 

gas.  After  all,  our  conception  of  the  nature  of  vito- 
motive  force,  as  summed  up  in  the  following  sentence 
is  more  rational: 

All  forms  of  energy  which  manifest  in  the  mineral, 
vegetable,  animal  and  human  entities  are  secondary 
energies,  derived  from  the  primary  source  of  all  forces, 
powers  and  energies  in  the  siderial  universe,  from  that 
which  we  call  God,  Life,  Oversoul,  Universal  Intelli- 
gence, Buddha,  Praua,  etc.,  each  one  according  to  his 
own  highest  conception  and  best  understanding. 

This  is  the  "Vis  Vitae,"  the  ''Animus  Mundi," 
ignored  and  denied  by  the  speculative  sophistries  of 
materialistic  science,  but  recognized  and  described  by 
Swedenborg  as  the  Heat  of  Divine  Love  and  the  Light 
of  Divine  Wisdom,  radiating  from  the  Great  Central 
Sun  of  the  Universe  through  all  space  and  animating 
aU  things. 

GROUP  m.    (F.)  Fats  and  Oils  (O.O.H.) 

To  this  group  of  food  materials  belong  aU  oils  and 
fats.  They  are  called  hj^drocarbons,  because  they,  also, 
are  chemically  composed  of  carbon,  hydrogen  and 
oxygen, — but  they  contain  the  hydrogen  and  oxygen 
in  proportions  which  do  not  form  water.  (HjO)  The 
melting  of  sugar  liberates  water,  the  melting  of  fats 
does  not;  it  produces  oils  only. 

In  the  vital  processes  of  the  body,  fats  and  oils  also 
serve  as  producers  of  heat  and  energy.  Aside  from 
this,  they  act  as  lubricants  for  the  digestive  tract. 
Another  "new  discovery"  of  Dr.  Powell  is  that  fats 
are  not  proper  foods.  That  fats,  as  such,  have  no  food 
value  for  the  human  body.  This  theory,  however,  seems 
fallacious,  because  Nature,  in  milk  and  eggs,  provides 


380  NATURAL   DIETETICS 

fats  for  the  ncAv-born  miiinal  and  human  in  consider- 
able quantities.  We  would  rather  trust  the  wisdom  of 
Nature  in  such  matters  than  the  far-fetched  theories 
and  "new  discoveries"  of  writers  on  food  chemistry. 

GROUP  IV.    (P.)  Proteids  or  Nitrogenous  Foods 

The  principal  representatives  of  this  group  are  albu- 
min (white  of  egg),  myosin  (the  flesh  of  animal  or 
human  bodies),  gluten  (the  dark  outer  part  of  cereals), 
and  the  globulin  of  the  blood. 

The  simplest  forms  of  protein  matter  are  made  up  of 
carbon,  oxygen,  hydrogen  and  nitrogen.  The  more 
complex  forms,  in  addition  to  these  four  basic  elements, 
contain  phosphorus  and  sulphur.  From  the  chemical 
composition  of  proteins  it  will  be  seen  that,  like  the 
food  materials  of  the  first,  second  and  third  groups, 
they  contain  the  C.O.H.  molecule  and  can  therefore 
take  the  place  of  starches,  dextrines  and  sugars,  as 
producers  of  heat  and  energy. 

But  in  addition  to  these  functions,  proteids  serve 
other  very  important  purposes  in  the  metabolism  (vital 
economy)  of  the  body.  Vegetable,  animal  and  human 
cells  are  composed  of  protoplasm,  which  means  protein 
matter.  The  building  and  repair  of  these  cells  there- 
fore depends  upon  a  sufficient  supply  of  protein  food 
materials. 

It  is  for  this  reason  that  starches,  sugars  and  fats 
cannot  entirely  take  place  of  nitrogenous  foods. 

If  the  food  materials  of  these  first  four  groups  had 
no  other  effects  upon  the  human  organism  than  those 
just  described  there  would  be  no  problem  of  dietetics. 
Any  ordinary  food  mixture  would  satisfy  the  needs  of 
the  body.    But  we  find  that,  aside  from  their  beneficial 


THE  FUNCTIONS  OF  FOOD   AND   DRINK  381 

effects  upon  the  organism,  these  foods,  in  the  processes 
of  digestion,  liberate  certain  waste  and  morbid  mate- 
rials, which  if  allowed  to  accumulate  in  considerable 
quantities  in  the  tissues  of  the  body,  endanger  health 
and  life. 

These  morbid  by-products  and  end-products  of 
starchy,  fatty  and  protein  digestion  consist  largely  of 
poisonous  acids,  alkaloids  and  ptomaines.  This  is  ex- 
plained by  the  fact  that  all  the  six  elements  (C.O.H. 
N.P.S.)  which  make  up  the  food  materials  in  the  first 
four  groups  are  eleetro-magnetically  negative,  acid- 
forming  elements.  When  in  the  processes  of  digestion 
and  oxidation,  the  foods  are  torn  apart  and  divided 
into  their  component  elements  and  proximate  elements, 
these  enter  into  new  combinations,  many  of  which, 
when  they  accumulate  in  the  human  body,  become 
obstructive  and  destructive.  To  elucidate  this  more 
fully,  we  shall  quote  a  few  paragraphs  from  "Nature 
Cure,  Philosophy  and  Practice,"  p.  291: 

"Nearly  every  disease  originating  in  the  human  body 
is  due  to  or  accompanied  by  the  excessive  formation  of 
different  kinds  of  acids  in  the  system,  the  most  im- 
portant of  which  are  uric,  carbonic,  sulphuric,  phos- 
phoric, and  oxalic  acids.  These,  together  with 
xanthines,  poisonous  alkaloids,  and  ptomaines,  are 
formed  in  and  through  the  processes  of  protein  and 
starch  digestion,  and  in  the  breaking  down  and  decay 
of  cells  and  tissues. 

"Of  these  different  waste  products,  uric  acid  causes 
probably  the  most  trouble  in  the  organism.  The  major- 
ity of  diseases  arising  within  the  human  body  are  due 
to  its  erratic  behavior.  Together  with  other  destructive 
acids  and  alkaloids  it  is  responsible  for  the  many  forms 
of  rheumatic  diseases,  arteriosclerosis,  arthritic  rheu- 


882  NATURAL   DIETETICS 

matism  and  heart  disease ;  for  the  formation  of  stones 
(calculi) ;  for  catarrhal  diseases,  for  high  blood  pres- 
eure,  and  for  the  functional  forms  of  diabetes  and 
Bright 's  disease. 

"Dr.  Haig,  of  London,  has  done  excellent  work  in  the 
investigation  of  uric  acid  poisoning,  but  he  becomes 
one-sided  when  he  makes  uric  acid  the  scapegoat  for 
practically  all  disease  conditions  originating  in  the 
human  body.  In  his  philosophy  of  disease  he  fails  to 
take  into  consideration  the  effects  of  other  acids  and 
systemic  poisons.  For  instance,  he  does  not  mention 
the  fact  that  carbonic  acid  is  produced  in  the  system 
somewhat  similarly  to  the  formation  of  coal  gas  in  the 
furnace;  and  that  its  accumulation  prevents  the  en- 
trance of  oxygen  into  the  cells  and  tissues,  thus  caus- 
ing asphyxiation  or  oxygen  starvation,  which  mani- 
fests in  the  sj'-mptoms  of  anemia  and  tuberculosis. 

"It  may  be  true,  as  Dr.  Powell  claims,  that  carbonic 
acid  is  the  motive  force  which  expands  the  muscle  cells, 
and  causes  muscular  contraction,  but  at  the  same  time 
this  gas,  after  it  has  done  its  work,  is  as  poisonous  to 
the  body  as  when  it  escapes  from  burning  coal  or  char- 
coal. This  poisonous  gas  has  to  be  neutralized  and 
eliminated  from  the  system  by  the  positive  alkaline 
element,  sodium, — of  the  fifth  group. 

"Neither  does  Dr.  Haig  explain  the  effects  of  other 
destructive  by-products  formed  during  the  digestion 
of  starches  and  proteins.  Sulphuric  acid  and  phos- 
phoric acid  actually  burn  up  the  tissues  of  the  body. 
This  explains  why  people  living  on  a  "highly  nutri- 
tious" meat  and  egg  (protein)  diet  often  grow  thinner 
instead  of  fleshier.  Instead  of  building  up,  the  acids 
of  sulphur  and  phosphorus  burn  up  the  tissues  of  their 
bodies.    They  destroy  the  cellulose  membranes  which 


THE   FUNCTIONS   OP   POOD   AND   DRINK  383 

form  the  protecting  skins  or  envelopes  of  the  cells,  dis- 
solve the  protoplasm,  and  allow  the  latter  to  escap* 
into  the  circulation.  This  accounts  for  the  symptoms 
of  Bright 's  disease,  for  the  presence  of  albumin  (cell 
protoplasm)  in  blood  and  urine,  for  the  clogging  of  thet 
circulation,  the  consequent  stagnation  and  accumula- 
tion of  blood  serum  (dropsy)  and  for  the  final  break- 
ing-down of  the  tissues  (necrosis)  resulting  in  open 
sores  and  ulcers. 

* '  Excess  of  phosphorus  and  the  acids  derived  from  it 
overstimulate  the  brain  and  nervous  system,  causing 
nervousness,  irritability,  hysteria  and  the  different 
forms  of  mania. 

'/An  example  of  this  is  the  'distemper'  of  a  horse 
when  given  too  many  oats  and  not  enough  grass  or  hay. 
The  excess  of  phosphorus  and  phosphoric  acids  formed 
from  the  protein  materials  of  the  grain,  if  not  neutral- 
ized by  the  alkaline  minerals  contained  in  grasses,  hay, 
or  straw,  will  overstimulate  and  irritate  the  nervous 
system  of  the  animal  and  cause  it  to  become  nervous, 
irritable  and  vicious.  These  symptoms  disappear  when 
the  rations  of  oats  are  decreased  and  when  more  fresh 
grass  or  hay  is  fed  in  place  of  the  grain. 

"Similar  effects  to  those  produced  upon  the  horse  by 
an  excess  of  grain  are  caused  in  the  human  organism, 
especially  in  the  sensitive  nervous  system  of  the  child, 
by  a  sui'plus  of  proteid  foods,  of  meats,  eggs,  nuts, 
cereals  and  pulses. 

* '  Still,  when  patients  suffering  from  over-stimulation 
of  the  brain  and  nervous  system  consult  the  doctor,  his 
advice  in  almost  every  instance  is :  '  Your  nerves  are 
weak  and  overwrought.  You  need  plenty  of  good, 
nourishing  food  (broths,  meat  and  eggs),  and  a  good 
tonic'  " 


384  NATURAL   DIETETICS 

The  "remedies"  prescribed  by  the  doctor  are  the 
very  things  which  caused  the  trouble  in  the  first  place. 

GROUP  V.    (M.)  Positive  Mineral  Elements 

To  this  group  belong  all  food  materials  which  run 
low  in  the  acid-forming  carbohydrates,  hydrocarbons 
and  proteids  of  the  first  four  groups,  but  high  in  the 
positive,  alkaline  mineral  elements,  the  most  important 
of  which  are  iron,  sodium,  lime,  potassium,  magnesium 
and  manganese. 

The  old  school  of  medicine  considers  fruits  and  vege- 
tables of  no  importance  because  they  do  not  contain 
enough  of  the  "highly  nutritious"  starches,  fats  and 
proteins.  We  now  understand  why,  just  on  account  of 
this  and  by  virtue  of  their  high  percentages  of  acid- 
binding  positive,  mineral  elements,  the  fruits  and  vege- 
tables are  of  the  greatest  importance  in  the  economy 
of  the  body.  Aside  from  being  the  neutralizers  and 
eliminators  of  morbid  materials,  the  positive  mineral 
elements  are  the  principal  components  of  the  blood  and 
of  the  most  important  secretions  of  the  body.  They 
constitute  the  "richness"  of  the  blood  and  give  textile 
strength  and  stamina  to  the  tissues  of  the  body.  One- 
half  of  the  substance  of  the  bony  structures  consists 
of  lime.  Potassium  is  to  the  muscular  tissues  what  lime 
is  to  the  bones. 

These  mineral  elements  are  the  building  stones  in  the 
tissues  of  the  body,  while  the  protein  elements  are  the 
mortar.  The  wall  built  of  mortar  alone  could  not 
stand ;  it  would  soon  crumble  to  pieces.  The  stones 
imbedded  in  the  mortar  are  necessary  to  give  it  the 
textile  strength.  So  the  strength,  resistance  and  stam- 
ina of  the  tissues  of  the  body  depend  upon  the  mineral 
and  earthy  elements. 


THE  FUNCTIONS  OP   POOD   AND   DRINK  385 

Polarity 

Furthermore,  the  generation  of  positive  electricity 
and  magnetism  in  the  body  depends  upon  an  abundance 
of  the  positive  mineral  elements  in  the  circulation. 
Health  is  positive;  disease  negative.  When  the  nega- 
tive elements  are  in  preponderance,  weakness  and  dis- 
ease, both  physical  and  mental,  are  bound  to  result. 

From  the  foregoing  it  becomes  apparent  why  in  our 
natural  diet  we  endeavor  to  reduce  the  negative  food 
materials  of  the  first  four  groups  and  to  increase  the 
positive  alkaline  mineral  elements  of  the  fifth  group. 

Bulk 

There  is  still  another  reason  why  fruits  and  vege- 
tables, together  with  the  hulls  of  grains,  are  of  great 
importance  in  the  processes  of  digestion  and  elimina- 
tion. These  food  materials  contain  large  amounts  of 
cellulose  and  woody  fiber,  which  are  looked  upon  ordi- 
narily as  useless  waste,  but  in  reality  render  valuable 
services.  They  stimulate  in  a  natural  manner  the  peri- 
staltic movements  of  the  bowels  and  act  as  scourers  and 
purifiers  and  therefore  as  natural  laxatives. 


385a 


NATURE  CUBE 


*>  "^  2 

<u  o 

So -a 

-S 

Ij  rt    ^ 

■5-3 

3    f=    2 

^ 

ream 
nond 
s,  pe 

:2  <D 

"^1 

..  « 

m 

y 

in 

3 

CO    .4-3 

to 

cT 

w  '^"•'5 

H    3 

a> 

Si  c 

9 
O 

M 

5 

[RY  PRODUCI 

TS:      Peanu 
oanuts,  Bia2 

tc. 

OIERCIAL     F 

il,    peanut 

o 
CO 

in 

P 

o  »  -^ 

0,   g    o 

O 

oH 

^3 

fi^Q^ 

S  c]  ho 

3  rt  a 

Pu 


4J 

111 

0 

a 

d 

fl    O   0^ 

a  a  <» 

O   "   bfi 

o  <u  be 

5  a>  bjo 

lom: 
emi 
erne 

o  bco 

-O  WO 

■^  ja  -^ 

SOW 

Ph 

'^o^ 

m 

0) 

arches 

and 

xtrinea 

52 

es 
be 

3 

3 
03  0} 

TS 

^      Q 

00 

cd 

o 
o 

fH 

^ 

Bai^'BipiEtloqxBo 

I  jnoao         n  <inoao 


snoqj'eoojp^H 
m  dnOHO 


NATURAL  DIETETICS 


385b 


o-^ 


CO  CO    GQ 


o< 


m 


<o 


o  a  M  a 

^^  rt  w    , 

►J  ^-, 

W  -t-T-t-T  «   ro 

►3  c«  rt  <:  r3 

<J    4)    <U    t-  -U 
g    &    ^    g^ 


no  ''^ 

gb  5" 

^^^  a 

■(f  ,~.  OS  ^   O 

ro        r*,       CJ  •% 

2 .2  o  «  ^ 

O         P^  t:   aj 

..   O   <B  1^  w  ^ 

Ph  --^    53  S   ■<    O 

p    ft^  <   W    « 


o 


c  rt  f-  01 

oj    3    ■=*    F? 


I  «-  C    ®  <"    3 

—  o  "^  o 

«  g  "^    TO 

^^  -2 

«  rs   cS  O  c3 

<D  O    c»  C-    t) 

«  3-a  5 

?3  'U  S;  tn 


tH  <u.c^ 


■<-•    CO    03 

arr-  s 

^«§^ 
o  -S 

rt    C3   ^ 


03    03 

03    03 

<o  a> 

«    Ol 

bCfl 

PI   3 

ci   f-i 

<B    <B 

t:  f^ 

j2-a 

03    O) 

5  s 


a. 


03    ^ 

1  <I>    03 


.5    03    E 


'•^  -r  0)  »-• 


Eh  «  is 
O 


I  03'^ 
.   <=  J 

I    03    « 

i  «  B 

I    >-.  W 

c3   o 


S  rt  g  g-^ 

a>  (-,  S        I" 

(^  ^  fciD    ^  O 
<u   03    ^  ro    c« 


&=n 


W        "  Q        OJ        (.g 

_    03  03    _    _ 

S   «  -5   " 

S  o  03  P;;; 

Jr.  g  o  3  OS 


oj  cs  aj 


03^    J> 
>-    CO  ,£2 


>-r.CC! 


fi<+^  ^  ■'^  s  B 

O    C3    03    O!    g  ^ 


So 


O) 

-Q 

<o 

03     •• 

o  ra      ^ 

O    P-«  ^ 

03  o  5  c 

I   03  o         e. 

■^  £ '«  6 
:  5J     s 


-     I 

c^tx  s  •• 

o:  g.=  M 

rrl     P5      M  fc- 


S  2  5  S 

A-    Sm    03   *r 


CQ 


(-    ^    03    p 


^03    «   CS   „ 

_      aobt^iS  3 
tj  *.  53  c  §  -5  g 


PM 


2  rM  -^ 


03    Q    © 


B  2 


i3  o 


m 


.^  03     O 

03    2  .      «    W 

«  ?  03  o  VS  5J 
•i  ^S3^  g"So 
■S  S°  3  S  §0  §3 

X  42  ftt  r;  «  3 


e  fl  S  ?,  2  ^ 

X3  bo  o  g^^  -g 


.2  c« 


3  3  O  rtWOQ^fT 


Ph 


«*         ^ 
S         ^ 


U         ^ 


d  0) 


S'H  «  a  g  a 


^ 

^ 


o  '-'  s 

a  <o  <o 

bDB  a 

^H  ,    ,  en 


A  dnoao 


CHAPTER  V 
DIGESTION  AND  ASSIMILATION 

Digestion  and  assimilation  may  be  divided  into  the 
following  stages: 

1.  The  in-taking  of  food. 

2.  Its  mastication. 

3.  Its  insalivation. 

4.  Its  deglutition. 

5.  Its  ehymification  in  the  stomach. 

6.  Its  chylification  through  the  intestinal  digestion. 

7.  The  absorption  of  the  chyle  by  the  membranes 
lining  the  intestinal  tract,  and  its  transmission  through 
the  lacteal  and  venous  vessels  into  the  circulation. 

8.  Elimination  and  defaecation  of  the  end  products 
and  waste  materials  of  digestion. 

The  limited  space  of  this  volume  does  not  admit  of 
going  into  the  details  of  these  various  processes.  They 
can  be  studied  in  any  encyclopedia  or  work  on  physiol- 
ogy. We  shall  confine  ourselves  to  giving  a  brief  out- 
line of  the  processes  of  digestion  and  assimilation  in 
so  far  as  this  will  facilitate  a  better  understanding  of 
the  problems  of  natural  dietetics  discussed  in  this 
volume. 

The  office  of  digestion  is  to  prepare  the  food-stuffs 
for  absorption  into  the  fluids  of  the  body,  and  for 
utilization  in  the  various  processes  of  nutrition.  To 
make  this  possible,  the  coarse  and  complex  food  ma- 
terials have  to  be  dissolved  and  rendered  diffusible  in 

386 


DIGESTION   AND    ASSIMILATION  387 

order  to  facilitate  their  absorption  through  the  mem- 
branes of  the  epithelial  cells  which  cover  the  walls 
of  the  intestinal  tract.  This  breaking  up  of  the  com- 
plex food  materials  into  simpler  compounds,  or  into 
their  constituent,  proximate  elements  is  accomplished 
by  the  influence  of  the  digestive  ferments  secreted  by 
certain  glandular  structures  belonging  to  the  digestive 
apparatus. 

In  the  following  brief  survey  of  the  processes  of 
digestion  and  assimilation,  we  shall  follow  the  various 
food  materials  through  their  transformations  to  their 
final  destination  in  the  vital  economy  of  the  body. 

Orthodox  physiology  and  food  chemistry,  as  we  have 
pointed  out  in  other  places,  deal  with  three  food  classes 
only.    These  are: 

1.  The  carbo-hydrates,  comprising  staxches,  dex- 
trines  and  sugars. 

2.  The  hydro-carbons,  comprising  fats  and  oils. 

3.  Proteids.  The  principal  representatives  of  this 
group  are  albumin  (white  of  egg),  gluten  of  grains  and 
legumes,  myosinogen  of  fleshy  tissues,  serum-globulin 
of  the  blood,  hemoglobin  of  the  red  blood  corpuscles, 
and  caseinogen  of  milk  and  cheese. 

Digestion  of  Starches 

The  starches  are  acted  on  in  the  mouth,  after  thor- 
ough mastication  and  insalivation,  by  the  ferment 
ptyalin  of  the  saliva,  and  transformed  into  dextrines 
and  sugars  (maltose  and  glucose).  Ptyalin  acts  only 
in  an  alkaline  or  neutral  medium.  If  the  starches  are 
thoroughly  masticated  and  insalivated,  the  action  of 
the  ptyalin  continues  for  twenty  to  forty  minutes  in 
the  stomach.    By  that  time  its  action  is  checked  by  the 


388  NATURAL   DIETETICS 

acidity  of  the  gastric  juices.  It  is  for  this  reason 
that  many  people  cannot  mix  starchy  foods  with  acid 
fruits  and  vegetables.  It  seems  that  in  such  eases 
fruit  and  vegetable  acids  increase,  temporarily  at  least, 
the  acidity  of  the  stomach  so  as  to  interfere  with  the 
action  of  the  ptyalin  on  the  starches.  However,  as  we 
pointed  out  in  the  article  entitled  "Mixing  of  Starches 
and  Acids,"  page  466,  this  is  not  true  in  all  cases. 

The  transformation  of  the  starches  (after  they  leave 
the  stomach)  into  the  simplest  and  most  refined  forms 
of  dextroses  and  glucoses  (sugars)  continues  in  the 
intestines  under  the  influence  of  the  pancreatic  ferment 
amylase  or  amylopsin.  The  ferment,  invertase,  found 
in  the  intestinal  fluid,  changes  cane  sugar  into  laevu- 
lose,  and  the  latter  into  glucose.  The  starches  must 
be  reduced  to  dextroses  and  glucoses  before  they  can 
be  assimilated  by  the  epithelial  cells  lining  the  intesti- 
nal walls  and  before  they  can  be  transmitted  through 
these  into  the  circulation. 

From  what  has  been  said  it  becomes  apparent  why 
it  is  necessary  to  thoroughly  masticate  and  insalivate 
all  starchy  foods.  This  is  of  especial  importance  for 
those  who  suffer  from  intestinal  indigestion.  If  starchy 
foods,  as  is  usually  done,  are  made  slippery  with  milk 
and  cream  and  swallowed  down  without  being  thor- 
oughly mixed  with  saliva,  they  remain  unchanged  in 
their  passage  through  mouth  and  stomach,  and  if  there 
is  a  tendency  to,  or  actual  condition  of  intestinal  in- 
digestion, then  the  starches  are  not  transformed  at  aU, 
and  instead  of  being  absorbed  into  the  circulation  as 
valuable  fuel  materials  in  the  forms  of  dextroses  and 
glucoses,  they  enter  into  processes  of  decay  and  fer- 
mentation and  fill  the  system  with  noxious  gases  and 
poisons. 


DIGESTION    AND    ASSIMILATION  389 

If  more  starchy  food  materials  are  taken  in  than 
can  be  absorbed  by  the  circulation  and  utilized  by 
cells  and  tissues,  part  of  the  surplus  is  stored  in  the 
liver  and  in  the  muscles  in  the  form  of  glycogen,  to  be 
drawn  upon  when  the  intake  of  carbo-hydrates  falls 
below  the  requirements  of  the  body.  On  page  376  we 
described  Dr.  Thomas  Powell's  ingenious  and  plausible 
theory  of  the  conversion  of  the  carbon  compounds  in 
the  cells  of  the  muscles  and  of  other  tissues  of  the  body 
into  heat  and  muscular  energy. 

Digestion  of  Fats 

The  fats  are  not  acted  on  at  all  by  the  saliva,  and  by 
the  gastric  juice  of  the  stomach,  only  in  so  far  as  the 
hydro-chloric  acid  partly  digests  and  dissolves  the 
membranes  of  the  fat  globules,  rendering  their  con- 
tents more  soluble  and  more  prone  to  the  action  of  the 
fat  splitting  ferments  in  the  intestinal  tract.  The 
principal  one  of  these  ferments  is  the  lipase  (steapsin) 
of  the  pancreatic  fluid.  The  action  of  the  lipase  is 
greatly  facilitated  and  intensified  by  the  bile.  In 
fact,  the  digestive  acti%'ity  of  all  the  pancreatic  fer- 
ments becomes  possible  only  after  the  contents  of  the 
intestinal  tract  (chyme  and  chyle)  have  been  changed 
from  the  acid  condition  in  which  they  left  the  stomach 
to  the  alkaline,  because  the  pancreatic  and  intestinal 
ferments  act  in  an  alkaline  medium  only. 

The  fats  are  split  up  into  glycerine  and  fatty  acids. 
These  end-products  of  fatty  digestion  are  absorbed  by 
the  epithelial  cells  lining  the  intestinal  walls.  "While 
passing  through  these  cells  the  glycerine  and  fatty 
acids  are  reunited  and  built  up  into  fat  globules,  and 
these  are  then  transmitted  through  the  lacteal  vessels 
into  the   lymphatic   circulation,   and  finally  into  the 


390  NATUR.VL   DIETETICS 

venous  circulation,  to  be  further  refined  and  prepared 
for  assimilation  in  their  passage  through  the  liver. 

Digestion  of  the  Proteids 

Proteid  food  materials  serve  two  principal  purposes.' 
They  are  composed  of  six  elements  (C.  0.  H.  N.  P.  S.). 
The  first  three  elements  may  be  utilized  in  the  economy 
of  the  body  for  the  production  of  heat  and  energy,  the 
same  as  the  (C.  0.  H.)  molecules  in  carbo-hydrates  and 
hydro-carbons,  but  aside  from  this  the  proteid  food 
materials  serve  other  important  purposes  in  the  build- 
ing up  and  repairing  of  cells  and  tissues.  The  sub- 
stance of  cells  consists  of  protoplasm;  that  is,  proteid 
matter,  therefore,  the  building  and  repair  of  cells  re- 
quires proteid  foodstuffs,  but  the  transformation  of  the 
proteid  materials  as  they  exist  in  foods  into  the  pro- 
teid substances  of  the  living  cells  and  tissues  of  the 
human  body  involves  profound  changes,  different  from, 
and  far  more  complex  than  the  simple  hydrolytic  re- 
duction of  carbo-hydrates  and  hydro-carbons. 

The  progressive  digestive  changes  of  the  proteids 
into  proteose,  peptones  and  amino-acids  begin  in  the 
stomach  under  the  influence  of  the  pepsin  secreted  by 
the  cell  linings  of  the  stomach.  The  pepsin  acts  only  in 
an  acid  medium  and  this  is  created  by  the  hydrochloric 
acid  which  forms  part  of  the  gastric  secretions.  The 
transformation  of  the  proteids  continues  in  the  intes- 
tinal tract  under  the  action  of  the  trypsin.  The  tryp- 
sin is  not,  as  was  formerly  believed,  solely  a  secretion 
of  the  pancreas,  but  is  in  reality  a  compound  formed 
by  the  chemical  union  of  trypsinogen  of  the  pancreatic 
fluid  with  the  enterokinase  secreted  by  the  epithelial 
cells  of  the  intestinal  walls,  especially  in  the  duodenum. 

The  trypsin  acts  only  in  an  alkaline  medium,  and 


DIGESTION    AND    ASSIMILATION  391 

this  is  furnished  by  the  in-pouring  of  the  bile  into  the 
chy-me  as  the  latter  enters  the  intestines  in  its  periodic 
discharges  from  the  stomach. 

It  seems  to  be  the  acidity  of  the  chyme  and  the  fer- 
ment secretin  of  the  pancreatic  juice  which  stimulate 
the  flow  of  the  bile  into  the  duodenum,  as  well  as  the 
secretion  of  the  enterokinase.  The  transformation  of 
the  proteid  food  materials  into  proteose,  peptones  and 
amino-acids  continues  in  the  intestines,  and  these  re- 
fined forms  of  proteid  matter  are  then  absorbed  by  the 
cell  lining  of  the  intestinal  walls  and  elaborated  into 
the  more  complex  proteid  substances  as  they  exist  in 
the  human  body.  To  recapitulate,  the  breaking  down 
of  all  food  materials  into  simpler  and  more  refined  com- 
pounds serves  several  purposes : 

1.  To  separate  waste  and  indigestible  matter  from 
the  nutritious  substances. 

2.  To  make  the  food  materials  sufficiently  soluble 
and  diffusible  so  they  can  be  assimilated  by  the  ab- 
sorbent membranes  of  the  digestive  tract. 

3.  To  liberate  their  latent  heat  and  vital  energy. 

4.  To  change  the  coarse  compounds  of  food  ma- 
terials into  the  more  refined  and  complex  materials  of 
the  living  cells  and  tissues  of  the  human  body. 

If  we  did  assimilate  animal  blood,  flesh  and  fat  in 
their  original  forms,  the  tissues  of  our  bodies  would 
soon  resemble  those  of  pigs,  cows,  and  sheep.  In 
order  to  preserve  the  individuality  and  integrity  of  the 
various  species  and  families  of  animals  and  of  man,  it 
is  necessary  that  all  food  materials  be  broken  down 
first  into  their  simplest  compounds  and  proximate  ele- 
ments and  then  reconstructed  (synthesized)  into  the 
building  materials,  cells,  tissues,  and  organs  of  the 
animal  or  human  being  which  consumes  the  foods. 


392  NATURAL   DIETETICS 

THE  PROCESSES 

The  following  diagram  presents  in  concise  form  a 

Food  Products  Acted  Upon  by 

'The  pytalin  of  the  saliva  in  the" 
J  mouth  and  stomach. 
The    amylase    of    the    intestinal 
fluids. 


Cane  Sugar Invertase  of  the  intestinal  fluids. 


Milk 


'Rennin  of  stomach. 
Lactase  of  the  intestinal  fluids. 


Fats 


Proieids 

Albumin 
Serum-globulin 
hemoglobin 
Myosinogen 
gluten 


'Hydrochloric    acid    of    the    stom- 
ach. 


Bile  of  liver  and  Lipase  of  pan-"| 
creatic  fluid.  J 


'Pepsin  of  stomach  and  Trypsin  of 
intestinal  fluid.  Trypsin  is  com- 
posed of  the  trypsinogen  of  the 
pancreatic  fluid  in  combination 
with  the  enterokinase  of  the  in- 
testinal fluid. 


DIGESTION   AND   ASSIMILATION  393 

OF  DIGESTION 

survey  of  the  most  important  phases  of  digestioiL 

Changed  into  Serve  as 

Dextrines 
Dextrose 
Maltose 
Glucose. 


Laevulose  and  this  into  glucose. 


Curds  proteid  into  caseinogen. 

fChanges  milk  sugar  into   galactose 
\and  this  into  glucose. 

fDigests  cell  membranes  of  fat 
1  globules. 

{Change  fats  into  glycerin  and  fatty 
acids. 


Fuel 
Materials 

and 
Producers 

of 

Muscular 

Energy. 


rChanges  proteids  into  proteose,  pep-' 
1  tones  and  amino-acids. 


Producers  of 
heat  and 
energy.    Build- 
ing and  repair 
materials  for 
the  cells  and 
tissues  of 
the  body. 


CHAPTER  VI 


THE   RELATIONSHIP    OF   ELECTRO-MAGNETIO- 
ALLY  NEGATIVE  FOOD  ELEMENTS  TO  DIS- 
EASE-PRODUCING   ACIDS,     COLLOIDS, 
ALKALOIDS  AND  PTOMAINES,  IN 
THE  HUMAN  BODY 

The  following  diagrams  plainly  reveal  the  relation- 
ship between  the  electro-magnetically  negative  ele- 
ments of  the  first  four  groups  (Starches,  Sugars,  Fats, 
Proteids)  and  the  disease-producing  acids,  colloids, 
alkaloids  and  ptomaines  in  the  human  body: 


Starches 

f 

Dextrines 

Composed 

Sugars        ^ 

of 

Fats 

C.  O.  H.  N.  P.  8 

Proteids 

H.  (hydrogen)  and  O.  (oxygen)  enter  into  the  composition  of 
the  great  majority  of  acids,  alkaloids  and  ptomaines. 


CO    Carbon  monoxide 
CO3  Carbon  dioxide — 

carbonic      acid — . 

coal  gas 


'Highly  poisonous  gases,  the  products  of 
combustion.  When  they  accumulate  in 
the  body  they  cause  asphyxiation,  oxy- 
gen starvation,  anemia  and  tubercu- 
losis 


CHjO^  Oxalic  acid 
CjH^N.O,  Uric  acid' 


'These  acids  and  their  deposits  in  the  system 
are  responsible  for  headaches,  catarrh, 
rheumatic  and  arthritic  conditions,  heart 
disease,  arteriosclerosis,  apoplexy  and 
functional  forms  of  diabetes  and  Bright 's 
disease 

394 


POOD   ELEMENTS    AND   DISEASE-PRODUCING    ACIDS         395 

CjH.Oj  Butyric  acid — forms  in  decaying  animal  matter 
H2SO3  Sulphurous  acid — sewer  gas 
H3SO4  Sulphuric  acid — vitriol 
H3PO,  Phosphorous  acid 
H^POj  Phosphoric  acid 

The  above-nained  acids  have  a  very  irritating  and 
the  stronger  ones  a  positively  destructive  effect  upon 
the  organs  and  tissues  of  the  body.  They  must  be  neu- 
tralized and  eliminated  by  the  positive  alkaline  mineral 
elements  of  the  fifth  group.  Meats  and  eggs  generate 
in  the  system  large  amounts  of  these  destructive  acids. 
This  explains  why  in  spite  of,  or  rather  on  account  of  a 
"highly  nutritious  meat  and  egg  diet,"  so  many  people 
lose  flesh  instead  of  gaining  it. 

CsHioNjO, — Caffein  jThese    alkaloids    are    closely    related, 

CrHsHjO,  — Theobromic  J  chemically,  to  uric  acid  and  have 
CioHhN,    — Nicotin  I      similar  effects  upon  the  system 

^'Exists    in    wine,    beer,    whisky    and 

C,HeO  -Ethyl  alcohol!  ^*^^''  alcoholic  Uquors.  It  is  formed 
I  in  the  digestive  tract  through  the 
[^     fermentation  of  sugars. 

A  SELECTION  OF  POISONOUS  PTOMAINES 

which  form  in  decaying  animal  matter  and  in  animal  and  human 
bodies.  (See  Chap.  XL  "Cancer,  Not  a  Local  But  a  Consti- 
tutional Disease,"  in  "Nature  Cure,  Philosophy  and  Prac- 
tice.") 

Chemical 

Formula  Name  Source 

CsHuN,  Cadaverin Putrefying  animal  tissues 

CsHjoNOj    Cholin    Putrefying  animal  tissues 

CtHi.NOj    Gadinin   Decomposing  fish 

CsHijN    Hydrocollidin Decomposing  fish  and  flesh 

CHjN    Methylamin   Decomposing  fish 

CsH.aNO   Neurin Putrefying  flesh 

CjoHaiNOir  Indican  A  poisonous  product  of  in- 
testinal indigestion  and 
putrefaction 


396  NATURAL    DIETETICS 

The  foregoing  substances  are  only  a  few  of  the  dozens 
of  different  ptomaines  (corpse  poisons)  which  have 
been  discovered  in  putrefying  flesh  and  fish  and  in  the 
tissues  of  living  animal  and  human  bodies. 

These  morbid  products  of  decomposing  carbonaceous 
and  protein  matter  form  the  most  prolific  soil  for  the 
propagation  of  germs,  bacteria  and  bacilli  found  in 
the  worst  forms  of  acute  and  chronic  diseases,  such  as 
typhoid  fever,  diphtheria,  appendicitis,  ptomaine  poi- 
soning, acute  and  chronic  gastritis,  enteritis,  peritonitis, 
and  of  tuberculosis  and  cancer. 

It  wnll  be  seen  that  all  the  poisonous  acids,  colloids, 
alkaloids  and  ptomaines  before  mentioned  are  made  up 
of  the  six  negative,  acid-forming  elements  (C.O.H.N. 
P.S.)  found  in  the  foods  of  the  first  four  groups  of 
our  classification, — in  the  starches,  sugars,  fats  and 
proteins, — and  these  poisonous  by-products  and  end- 
products  of  starchy  and  protein  metabolism  must  be 
neutralized  and  eliminated  from  the  system  by  the 
positive,  alkaline,  mineral  elements  which  abound  in 
the  food  materials  of  the  fifth  group,  especially  in  the 
juicy  fruits  and  vegetables. 

These  facts  in  Nature  form  the  scientific  basis  of 
Natural  Dietetics  and  of  rational  vegetarianism. 


CHAPTER  Vn 

THE    TENSING   AND    RELAXING    EFFECTS   OP 

FOODS  UPON  THE  DIGESTIVE  ORGANS 

AND  THE  SYSTEM  AS  A  WHOLE 

There  are  two  forces  at  work  in  the  human  organism, 
the  one  tensing  and  contracting,  the  other  relaxing 
and  expanding.  Normal  function,  or  health,  results 
from  the  equilibrium  between  the  two.  This  equilibrium 
between  contending  forces  we  call  the  positive  condi- 
tion of  health;  departure  from  it  in  either  direction, 
the  negative  condition  of  disease.  As  a  rule  acids  exert 
a  tensing,  contracting  influence,  alkalies  relax  and  ex- 
pand. These  facts  should  be  kept  in  mind  when  study- 
ing the  physiology  and  psychology  of  foods  and  medi- 
cines. 

The  extremes  of  tension  and  relaxation  are  expressed, 
in  the  functions  of  the  body,  by  constipation  and  diar- 
rhoea. "We  shall  find  that  as  a  rule,  acid  or  acid  produc- 
ing foods  have  a  contracting,  constipating  influence 
and  the  alkaline  foods  a  relaxing,  laxative  influence. 

If  the  intestines  are  functioning  normally,  the  feces 
should  pass  freely  and  easily,  they  should  be  well 
formed  and  leave  the  parts  perfectly  clean.  After  an 
evacuation  there  should  be  a  feeling  of  perfect  clean- 
liness, of  freedom,  and  of  buoyancy. 

It  is  possible  to  have  daily  passages  from  the  intes- 
tines and  yet  retain  hard  incrustations  of  fetid  matter. 
An  individual  may  suffer  from  malnutrition,  deficient 

397 


398  NATURAL   DIETETICS 

elimination  and  auto-intoxication,  even  if  the  feces  are 
able  to  force  a  passage  through  hardened  accumula- 
tions. Often  this  condition  is  indicated  by  the  thinness 
of  the  discharges. 

If  the  feces  are  black,  too  much  of  the  bile  and  uric 
acid  producing  foods  (proteids)  have  been  taken.  If 
they  are  too  light,  probably  not  enough  proteids  and 
starches  are  consumed. 

The  extremes  of  tension  and  relaxation  are  illustrated, 
on  the  one  hand  by  the  collaemic  forms  of  uric  acid 
poisoning,  in  which  the  capillaries  are  blocked,  surface 
circulation  impeded,  blood  in  the  arteries  and  vital 
organs  at  high  tension,  bovrels  sluggish  and  consti- 
pated; on  the  other  hand  the  extremes  of  relaxation 
are  characterized  by  weakened  blood  vessels  and  flabby 
muscles.  The  blood  serum  seems  to  leak  in  morbid 
perspiration  from  the  relaxed  tissues,  and  the  bowels 
are  usually  very  loose. 

In  mental  and  psychic  conditions,  the  extreme  of 
tension  is  portrayed  in  the  excitable,  over-active,  talka- 
tive, boisterous  and  sometimes  violent  types  of  nervous- 
ness, hysteria  and  delusional  insanity.  The  extreme 
of  relaxation  is  exhibited  in  weak,  negative,  psychic 
cases.  These  patients  are  languid,  listless,  indifferent 
to  surroundings,  too  apathetic  to  eat,  dress  or  to  attend 
to  their  bodily  needs. 

GROUP  IV.   Proteids 

By  reference  to  the  tables  on  page  430  we  find  that 
proteid  materials  are  made  up  of  six  negative  acid-pro- 
ducing elements  (C.O.H.N.P.S).  Proteids  are  there- 
fore, above  all  others,  acid-producing  foods.  In  the 
metabolism  of  the  body  they  produce  uric,  carbonic, 
sulphuric,  phosphoric,  oxalic  and  a  number  of  other 


TENSING  AND  RELAXING   EFFECTS  OF   POODS  399 

acids;  therefore  it  is  not  to  be  wondered  at,  that  pro- 
teid  foods  are  constipating. 

Lean  meats,  fish  and  fowl,  if  taken  by  themselves,  are 
very  constipating.  Fat  meats,  taken  in  moderation  and 
in  right  combinations,  have  a  lubricating,  laxative 
effect ;  if  taken  in  excess  they  produce  constipation  and 
a  sticky  condition  of  the  bowels  and  feces ;  eggs,  being 
rich  in  albumen,  sulphur  and  phosphorus,  when  taken 
by  themselves  or  in  combination  with  other  tensing 
foods,  are  also  constipating.  Milk  in  small  quantities 
has  for  many  a  constipating  effect ;  taken  in  large  quan- 
tities, as  prescribed  by  some  dieticians,  it  has  in  many 
instances  a  laxative  effect,  because  of  the  amount  of 
water  with  which  the  system  is  deluged ;  in  other  cases, 
existing  constipation  is  intensified  by  this  practice. 

The  vegetable  products  richest  in  proteid  are  the 
legumes  (peas,  beans  and  lentils)  and  the  cereals. 
These  are  generally  called  the  glutenous  foods.  If 
taken  by  themselves  or  in  combination  with  other  tens- 
ing foods  they  have  a  constipating  effect;  the  feces 
become  hard  and  brittle.  Nuts,  being  rich  in  fats  and 
proteid,  if  taken  in  excess  or  with  other  tensing  foods, 
also  have  on  most  people  a  constipating  effect. 

Carbohydrates  (Groups  I  and  11) 

Foods  belonging  to  the  carbohydrate  groups,  which 
in  the  natural  state  contain  large  amounts  of  organic 
salts  and  other  laxative  principles,  do  not  impede  the 
normal  activities  of  the  intestines,  unless  taken  to 
excess. 

Such  foods  are  whole  grain  preparations  of  cereals, 
the  unrefined  brown  sugar  products  of  cane,  beet, 
maple,  etc.  If,  however,  the  starchy  and  glutenous 
principles  or  the  pure  sugar  are  artificially  extracted 


400  NATURAL    DIETETICS 

from  natural  food  products  they  become  proximate 
and  inorganic  food  elements,  and  these  separated  from 
the  organic  salt  and  other  laxative  principles  exert  a 
tensing  and  constipating  influence.  Such  proximate 
food  elements  are  starch,  gluten,  white  sugar,  etc. 
Honey  is  one  of  Nature's  finest  foods.  Besides  being 
rich  in  saccharine  matter  it  contains  positive  mineral 
elements  and  is  animated  with  the  animal  life  element. 
Molasses  is  much  more  of  a  laxative  than  white  sugar, 
because  it  contains  the  organic  salts  of  which  the  re- 
fined sugar  has  been  robbed. 

Hydrocarbons   (Group  HE) 

Animal  fats,  cream,  and  vegetable  oils,  taken  in  mod- 
erate quantities,  have  a  purely  mechanical,  laxative 
effect,  because  they  act  as  lubricators  to  the  organism 
as  a  whole  and  especially  to  the  intestinal  tract.  If 
taken  in  excess,  however,  or  in  combination  with  tens- 
ing foods,  they  have  a  constipating  effect,  because  the 
liver  and  pancreas  cannot  furnish  sufficient  amounts 
of  bile  and  steapsin  for  their  reduction,  and  fats  which 
fail  to  be  reduced  or  saponified  produce  a  sticky  condi- 
tion of  the  intestines.  Even  too  much  olive  oil,  which 
many  vegetarians  seem  to  think  can  be  taken  without 
harm,  may  therefore  become  a  source  of  constipation. 
We  must  not  overlook  the  fact  that  it  is  a  proximate 
element.  The  olive  itself,  containing  the  oily  princi- 
ples in  combination  with  large  percentages  of  organic 
salts,  has  a  much  more  beneficial  effect. 

Organic  Salts  (Group  V) 

In  this  group  belong  all  foods  comparatively  poor 
in  proteids,  carbohydrates  and  hydrocarbons,  and  rich 


TENSING   AND   RELAXING   EFFECTS   OF   POODS  401 

in  the  organic  salts  of  sodium,  iron,  lime,  magnesium 
and  potassium.  The  most  valuable  in  this  respect  are 
the  green,  leafy  vegetables,  such  as  spinach,  lettuce, 
cabbage,  celery,  kale,  asparagus,  watercress,  the  green 
tops  of  roots,  etc.  Next  in  order  come  the  roots: 
radishes,  carrots,  parsnips,  beets,  rutabagas,  onions  and 
horseradish.  Potatoes,  although  they  contain  con- 
siderable amounts  of  potassium  and  lime,  are  deficient 
in  sodium,  iron  and  magnesium,  but  they  are  rich  in 
vitamines.  On  the  whole,  the  starchy  elements  pre- 
dominate over  the  organic  salts  and  they  are  therefore 
placed  in  the  carbohydrate  group.  Among  the  fruits, 
the  banana  corresponds  to  the  potato  among  the  vege- 
tables; it  is  rich  in  starchy  and  saccharine  elements 
but  comparatively  poor  in  organic  salts. 

Nature's  Wise  Provision 

It  is  interesting  to  note  how,  for  each  season  of  the 
year.  Nature  furnishes  the  foods  and  medicines  best 
adapted  to  changing  conditions.  In  the  fall  we  gather 
the  hardy,  nourishing,  heat  and  energy-producing 
cereals,  legumes  and  nuts,  which  furnish  the  fuel 
materials  necessary  to  do  the  winter's  work  and  to 
protect  us  against  the  cold.  These  acid-producing 
foods,  through  their  tensing,  contracting  influences, 
help  us  to  retain  the  heat  of  the  body;  on  the  other 
hand  they  also  favor  the  retention  of  waste  matter  and 
poisons.  During  the  winter  season,  increased  amounts 
of  food,  closed  doors  and  windows,  pores  contracted 
and  closed  by  the  cold,  all  favor  the  accumulation  of 
fermentable  waste  matter  in  the  system. 

"With  the  first  thaws  of  springtime  these  waste  mate- 
rials begin  to  ferment  and  to  produce  fevers,  cold* 


402  NATURAL  DIETETICS 

and  catarrhs.  Nature  again  provides  the  proper  foods 
and  remedies :  lettuce,  spinach,  radishes,  young  onions, 
watercress,  rhubarb,  asparagus,  and  other  tender,  lus- 
cious vegetables  furnish  the  best  laxatives  and  diu- 
retics, those  which  most  effectively  assist  Nature  in 
her  spring  house  cleaning. 

In  the  heat  of  summer  the  watery,  refreshing  and 
cooling  melons,  cantaloupes  and  cucumbers  are  the  most 
effective  agents  in  relaxing  the  bowels  and  the  pores 
of  the  skin,  allowing  free  evacuation  and  enhancing 
heat  evaporation  through  the  surface  of  the  body. 
These  delicious  summer  foods  owe  their  relaxing  qual- 
ities to  the  large  percentage  of  alkaline  salts  which 
they  contain.  Their  purging  effect  need  not  be  feared. 
By  cleansing  the  system  of  waste  matter  and  poisons 
this  purging  prevents  dangerous  inflammations  and 
fevers. 


CHAPTER  Vni 
STANDABD  FOODS 

Milk  and  Arterial  Blood  the  Only  Standard  Food  Com- 
binations in  Nature 

Animal  and  human  bodies  are  composed  of  certain 
well-defined  elements,  in  certain  well-defined  propor- 
tions. Chemistry  so  far  has  discovered  seventeen  of 
these  elements  in  appreciable  quantities  and  ascer- 
tained their  more  important  functions  in  the  body.  If 
any  of  these  are  present  in  over-abundance,  and  others 
are  deficient  in  quantity,  or  wliolly  lacking,  there  will 
be  abnormal  function  or  disease.  Therefore,  the  ele- 
ments of  nutrition  must  be  provided  in  right  propor- 
tion in  order  to  meet  the  needs  of  the  body. 

The  quest  of  natural  food  reformers  after  a  normal, 
natural  diet  is  hence  not  so  silly  and  impossible  as  some 
people  would  have  us  believe. 

Many  old  school  food  scientists,  however,  have  recog- 
nized the  desirability  and  possibility  of  establishing 
standard  food  combinations.  But  all  these  authorities, 
whether  they  are  advocates  of  the  meat,  mixed,  or 
vegetarian  diet,  deal  only  with  proteids,  fats,  and  car- 
bohydrates. This  is  shown  in  the  following  ''Standard 
Daily  Rations,"  given  by  "regular  authorities"  on 
Dietetics  on  page  616  of  Kirk's  Physiology.  This  work 
is  used  as  a  text  book  in  many  prominent  medical  uni- 
versities in  this  country. 

403 


404  NATURAL   DIETETICS 

On  the  above  mentioned  page  Molcsehott  gives  the 
following  normal  diet : 

Proteids    120  grammes 

Fats    90  grammes 

Carbohydrates 333  grammes 

Ranke's  normal  diet,  given  on  the  same  page,  closely 
resembles  Moleschott's: 

Proteids 100  grammes 

Fats    100  grammes 

Carbohydrates  250  grammes 

In  explanation  of  these  standard  food  combinations 
Kirke  says:  "The  nutritive  value  of  the  diet  depends 
chiefly  upon  the  amount  of  carbon  and  nitrogen  it  con- 
tains." Which  means — proteid  and  carbohydrate  foods 
are  the  most  important. 

The  leaders  of  American  vegetarianism,  building  on 
these  old  school  theories  and  food  standards  in  making 
up  their  vegetarian  diet  combinations  searched  prin- 
cipally for  substitutes  for  meat  and  eggs,  that  is,  for 
foods  rich  in  proteids,  fats  and  starches.  As  a  conse- 
quence, we  find  that  the  dietetics  of  our  best  known 
vegetarian  sanitariums  and  food  reformers  deal  only 
with  proteids,  fats,  and  carbohydrates.  The  daily  bul- 
letins giving  dietary  advice  to  the  patients  of  these 
institutions  deal  with  these  three  proximate  food  ele- 
ments only. 

All  widely  advertised  breakfast  and  pre-digested 
health  foods  in  the  market  are  made  up  of  grains,  peas, 
beans,  peanuts,  cocoanuts  or  combinations  of  these  food 
materials. 

Breaking  up  these  natural  products  of  the  soil  into 
proximate  elements,  such  as  protose,  gluten,  white  flour, 


STANDARD  FOODS  405 

white  sugar,  etc.,  and  devitalizing  them  by  cooking, 
steaming  and  roasting  tends  to  make  them  more  nega- 
tive than  they  are  already  in  the  natural  state. 

The  proximate  elements,  proteids,  fats,  and  carbo- 
hydrates dealt  with  in  old  school  dietetics  contain  six 
elements  only  out  of  the  seventeen  found  in  the  human 
body.     What  about  the  others — the  mineral  elements? 

Kirke  and  all  other  "regular"  authorities  merely 
mention  these  all  important  mineral  elements  and 
bunch  them  as  "inorganic  salts,"  or  "ash,"  and  claim 
that  any  adequate  food  supply  of  proteids,  fats,  and 
carbohydrates  carries  enough  of  these  "inorganic 
salts"  to  satisfy  the  needs  of  the  body. 

This  assumption,  however,  is  superficial,  gratuitous, 
and  altogether  unscientific.  We  shall  prove  in  these 
articles,  and  by  means  of  our  tabulated  analyses,  pages 
430,  431,  that  exactly  the  reverse  is  true — that  the 
greatest  importance  in  the  vital  functions  of  the  body 
attaches  to  the  organic  salts  or  mineral  elements ;  that 
the  only  danger  lies  in  the  excessive  use  of  proteids, 
fats,  and  carbohydrates,  and  that  the  difficulty  in 
rational  dietetics  lies  in  procuring  in  the  daily  dietary, 
a  sufficient  amount  of  organic  mineral  salts  without  at 
the  same  time  overloading  the  system  with  starchy 
and  nitrogenous  elements. 

"Regular"  authorities  also  make  a  mistake  in  stat- 
ing their  normal  diet  combinations  in  weight.  This  is 
always  misleading,  as  the  amount  of  food  needed  by 
different  individuals  differs  very  much  in  weight. 
Stuffing  food  into  patients  by  weight  in  accordance 
with  "standard  rations"  has  stuffed  numbers  of  them 
into  early  graves.  An  amount  of  food  in  weight  just 
sufficient  for  the  needs  of  one  person  may  prove  alto- 
gether too  much  for  the  next  one.    The  only  rational 


406  NATURAL   DIETETICS 

way  to  calculate  food  proportions  is  by  percentages. 
In  order  to  accomplish  this  readily  it  is  necessary  to 
establish  a  standard  combination  of  food  elements  in 
such  proportions  or  percentages  as  will  meet  all  re- 
quirements of  the  human  organism.* 

Milk  was  selected  by  some  German  scientists  as  such 
a  standard  food  combination  because  Nature  made  it  a 
perfect  food  for  the  new-bom  and  growing  animal,  and 
because  it  is  capable  of  sustaining  the  growing  organ- 
ism in  perfect  health  and  strength.  Furthermore,  the 
analyses  of  Dr.  Lahman  and  other  chemists  disclose  the 
interesting  fact  that  the  elementary  composition  of  the 
milk  of  an  animal  is  just  about  the  same  as  the  com- 
position of  the  ash  of  its  body  after  cremation. 

Milk  is  indeed  a  perfect  food  for  the  growing  animal, 
but  it  is  not  so  to  be  considered  for  the  adult  animal 
or  man.  The  reason  for  this  is  that  the  young  and 
growing  animal  requires  a  great  deal  more  of  potas- 
sium and  calcium,  the  tissue  building  elements,  than 
the  full  grown,  adult  body.  On  the  other  hand,  the 
young  animal,  on  account  of  its  greater  elasticity,  plas- 
ticity, and  natural  activity  in  play  and  sports,  elimi- 
nates waste  matter  much  more  readily,  and  therefore 
needs  less  of  the  eliminative  elements  than  the  mature 
body. 

This  is  indicated  by  a  comparison  of  the  analyses  of 
blood  and  milk.  While  milk  is  richer  in  the  building 
elements,  the  blood  of  the  adult  animal  body  is  richer 
in  sodium  and  iron,  the  positive  ** working"  elements. 

*Note. — The  first  treatise  in  the  English  language  dealing 
with  the  functions  of  the  mineral  elements  in  the  body  was 
written  by  Otto  Curqu6  about  nine  years  ago  at  the  sugges- 
tion of  Dr.  Lindlahr.  The  latter  then  treated  the  subject  more 
fully  in  the  Nature  Cur©  Magazines,  Volumes  1807-1809. 


4 


STANDARD   POODS  407 

Careful  analysis  of  the  animal  body  and  its  functions 
discloses  the  fact  that  the  red  (arterial)  blood  of  a 
healthy  animal  living  on  natural  foods  (cattle  on  green 
pasture)  contains  in  right  proportions  the  various  food 
elements  required  by  the  animal.  The  reason  for  this 
is  obvious — the  body  draws  all  its  nourishment  from 
the  red  (arterial)  blood. 

For  the  above  reasons  we  have  chosen  milk  as  a 
standard  food  combination  for  the  new  born,  growing 
body,  and  red  (arterial)  blood  as  a  normal  elementary 
food  combination  for  the  fully  developed  organism, 
after  which  to  pattern  our  vegetarian  food  combina- 
tions. We  do  not  mean  by  the  foregoing  that  people 
should  live  on  blood,  but  that  the  red  (arterial)  blood 
of  which  we  speak  contains  all  the  normal  elementary 
constituents  of  a  perfect  food  combination  in  right 
proportions  for  the  adult  organism,  and  finds  its  coun- 
terpart in  a  well-balanced  vegetarian  diet. 

Cow's  Milk  More  Normal  Than  Human  Milk 

Our  tables  also  reveal  the  interesting  fact  that  cow's 
milk  contains  much  more  of  the  all-important  sodium 
than  the  human  milk  and  about  twice  as  much  calcium 
and  iron,  which  explains  why  rachitis  is  so  common 
among  babies  and  not  to  be  found  among  calves.  We 
have  proved  by  practical  experience  that  milk  fresh 
from  a  healthy  cow  is  greatly  to  be  preferred  as  nour- 
ishment for  infants  to  the  impoverished  milk  of  scrofu- 
lous mothers.  In  this  connection  it  is  also  significant 
to  remember  that  one-half  of  all  "civilized"  mothers — 
thanks  to  unnatural  food,  drink,  vaccination,  and  poi- 
sonous drugs — are  totally  incapacitated  for  nursing 
their  young. 


CHAPTER  IX 
THE  MAGNETIC  PROPERTIES  OF  FOOD 

What  is  electricity  and  magnetism?  This  question 
could  be  answered  by  saying,  "Everything  is  elec- 
tricity." One  modern  scientist  never  tires  of  saying, 
"There  is  nothing  but  electrons," — and  electrons  are 
negative  particles  or  charges  of  electricity. 

A  few  thousand  years  ago  Pythagoras,  and  many 
other  wise  men  and  mystics  of  antiquity,  claimed  that 
"all  matter  is  made  up  of  three  elements,  substance 
(the  one  primordial  substance),  motion  and  numbers." 
Now,  advanced,  modern  science  seems  to  verify  the 
teachings  of  the  ancient  wise  men. 

The  discovery  and  the  study  of  the  X-rays,  of  radium 
and  radio-activity  has  revealed  the  fact  that  the  atoms 
of  all  the  different  kinds  of  matter  are  made  up  of 
negative  charges  or  particles  of  electricity,  called 
electrons  or  corpuscles,  which  revolve  around  one  an- 
other without  ever  touching, — like  the  planets  in  the 
starry  heavens  swing  around  their  central  suns.  These 
electrical  whirls  or  vortices  tear  along  the  ether  (pri- 
mordial substance)  like  the  centripetal  force  of  the 
eddy  tears  along  the  water. 

Furthermore,  it  has  been  found  that  the  number  of 
the  particles  of  negative  electricity  (electrons)  vibrat- 
ing in  the  atom  determine  the  physical  qualities  of  the 
atom  or  element.    In  other  words,  whether  an  atom  or 

408 


THE  MAGNETIC   PROPERTIES  OP  FOOD  409 

element  impresses  our  sensory  organs  with  the  physical 
properties  of  iron,  carbon,  hydrogen,  oxygen  or  of  any 
one  of  the  other  elements  of  matter  depends  upon  the 
number  of  electrons  in  the  atom  and  their  modes  of 
vibration. 

It  has  been  found  that  the  number  of  electrons  or 
corpuscles  in  the  atom  determines  its  atomic  weight. 
Science,  in  its  wonderful  achievement,  has  gone  so  far 
as  to  count,  approximately,  the  number  of  electrons  in 
the  atoms, — at  least,  in  the  lighter  ones. 

The  electrons,  or  negative  charges  of  electricity  in 
the  atom,  are  accompanied  or  surrounded  by  spheres 
of  positive  electricity,  and  the  unit  of  these  positive 
and  negative  charges  of  electricity,  has  been  named 
the  "ion." 

Thus  we  find  the  teachings  of  the  ancient  wise  men 
and  mystics  verified  by  the  discoveries  of  modern 
science.  The  "primordial  substance"  of  Pythagoras  is 
the  ether,  in  various  stages  of  refinement.  "Motion" 
is  the  oscillation  or  vibration  of  the  electrons  in  the 
atom,  and  "numbers"  is  the  number  of  electrons  or 
corpuscles  which  make  up  the  atom  of  matter. 

It  has  been  found  that  the  electro-magnetically  nega- 
tive atom  has  more  (negative)  corpuscles  than  are 
necessary  to  balance  its  positive  electricity,  and  that 
the  electro-magnetically  positive  atom  has  fewer  nega- 
tive corpuscles  than  are  needed  to  balance  its  positive 
sphere  of  electricity.  It  is  this  deficiency  or  super- 
fluity of  negative  corpuscles  which  constitutes  positive 
and  negative  magnetism  or  polarity,  which  causes  the 
desire  of  the  negative  atom  to  equalize  its  polarity  by 
union  with  a  positive  atom.  This  is  what-  constitutes  the 
chemical  affinity,  or  valency — combining  power — of  the 
various  atoms  or  elements  of  matter.    The  greater  the 


410  NATURAL    DIETETICS 

surplus  in  an  atom  of  negative  corpuscles,  the  greater 
will  be  its  desire  or  chemical  affinity  for  atoms  having  a 
deficiency  of  negative  electrons,  or  which  are,  in  other 
words,  surcharged  with  positive  electricity. 

Therefore,  according  to  the  predominance  of  the 
positive  or  negative  qualities  in  force,  matter  or  entity, 
we  speak  of  them  as  positive  or  negative.  "We  learn 
from  the  foregoing  that  the  law  of  polarity  is  funda- 
mental in  Nature.  On  the  activities  which  it  pro- 
vokes and  regulates  is  built  the  entire  structure  of  the 
universe ;  the  cessation  of  these  activities  for  the  frac- 
tion of  a  second  would  make  the  universe  disappear 
into  nothingness  in  the  flash  of  a  moment. 

This  fundamental  law  of  Nature  has  been  expressed 
by  the  author  of  ''Harmonics  of  Evolution,"  in  the 
words,  "There  is  a  principle  in  Nature  which  impels 
every  entity  to  seek  vibratory  correspondence  (or 
equilibrium)  with  another  like  entity  of  opposite  polar- 
ity." 

The  swaying  to  and  fro  of  positive  and  negative,  the 
desire  to  balance  incomplete  polarity,  constitutes  the 
very  ebb  and  flow  of  life.  All  through  Nature,  from 
the  most  minute  to  the  greatest  and  most  complex,  runs 
this  great  dividing  line  between  positive  and  negative. 

In  the  mineral  kingdom,  polarity  manifests  in  the  at- 
traction and  repulsion  of  atoms.  In  the  vegetable, 
animal  and  human  kingdom  polarity,  and  its  electro- 
magnetic properties,  become  more  and  more  identified 
with  sex.  Broadly  speaking,  the  male  sex  represents 
the  dominant,  active,  aggressive,  positive  qualities,  and 
the  female  sex,  the  negative,  passive,  receptive  qual- 
ities. Individuals  exhibit  all  shades,  grades  and  mix- 
tures of  these  general  sexual  characteristics.  Attrac- 
tion between  the  sexes  depends  upon  the  innate  ten- 


THE  MAGNETIC  PROPERTIES   OP  POOD  411 

deney  and  desire  to  equalize  unbalanced  or  disturbed 
polarity. 

Exaggerated  positive  or  negative  conditions  physic- 
ally, mentally,  morally,  spiritually  or  psychically  tend 
to  create  disease  on  the  respective  planes  of  being. 
Physical  disease,  as  we  have  explained  in  other  chap- 
ters, is  always  accompanied  by  a  predominance  of  the 
electro-magnetically  negative  elements  and  forces. 

Foods,  medicines,  suggestions  and  all  other  kinds  of 
therapeutic  treatment  exert  on  the  individual  subjected 
to  them  a  positive  or  negative  influence.  It  is  there- 
fore of  the  greatest  importance  that  the  physician  and 
every  one  who  wishes  to  live  in  harmony  with  Nature 's 
laws  should  understand  this  all-important  question  of 
magnetic  polarity. 

Very  interesting  aspects  of  this  problem  have  been 
treated  in  a  thoroughly  rational  and  scientific  manner 
in  a  remarkable  book  entitled  "The  Great  Psycholog- 
ical Crime,"  which  is  the  second  volume  in  the  Har- 
monic Series,  published  by  the  Indo-American  Book 
Co.,  5705-5711  West  Lake  St.,  Chicago. 

The  anonymous  author  says  on  pages  280-281 : 

* '  Those  who  reach  the  negative  condition  of  medium- 
ship  through  the  process  of  dietetics  alone  represent  a 
very  considerable  number  of  those  who  afterwards  be- 
come known  either  as  mediums  or  as  insane.  Diet  has 
its  most  direct  and  positive  effects  upon  the  purely 
physical  organism  of  the  individual. 

*  *  Positive  foods  and  medicines  have  the  general  effect 
of  producing  positive  magnetic  conditions  within  the 
physical  organism.  Negative  foods,  on  the  other  hand, 
as  well  as  negative  medicines,  produce  the  opposite  or 
negative  condition  of  the  physical  organism. 

"Generally  speaking,  a  strictly  vegetable  diet  of  any 


412  NATURAL   DIETETICS 

kind  is,  comparatively,  a  magnetically  negative  diet. 
While  this  is  a  scientific  fact,  it  is  also  true  that  vege- 
tables differ  very  widely  in  the  degree  of  their  positive 
and  negative  properties,  qualities  and  effects. 

"For  instance:  As  a  general  proposition,  all  vege- 
tables which  develop  under  the  soil  (such  as  the  potato, 
the  turnip,  the  radish,  the  carrot  and  the  beet),  are  the 
most  positive  (or  least  negative)  vegetable  foods 
known.  Those  which  grow  upon  endogenous  plants, 
generally  speaking,  are  second  in  order.  Those  which 
grow  upon  exogenous  trees,  with  some  exceptions,  are 
third  in  order,  while  those  which  grow  on  vines  take 
rank  among  the  most  negative  foods.  There  are  excep- 
tions among  all  these  various  classes. 

"A  strictly  meat  diet  is  the  most  positive  magnetic 
diet  known.  While  the  meats  of  different  animals  pos- 
sess radically  different  degrees  of  positive  force  and 
magnetic  energy,  it  is,  nevertheless,  true  that,  gener- 
ally speaking,  meats  of  all  kinds  are  more  positive  than 
vegetables. 

* '  With  the  simple  principle  of  food  values  in  mind  it 
will  not  be  difficult  to  understand  that  diet  is  a  most 
important  factor  in  the  development  of  the  positive  or 
negative  magnetic  condition  of  the  physical  organism. 
In  like  measure  it  has  its  effects  upon  the  relation  of 
the  individual  to  his  spiritual  environment. 

"Solitude  has  the  effect  of  producing  a  mentally 
negative  condition.  This  is  because  of  the  natural 
tendency  to  mental  abstraction  which  follows  from  soli- 
tude. Man  upon  the  physical  plane  is  eminently  a 
social  being.  If  deprived  of  the  society  of  his  kind  hia 
mind  involuntarily  seeks  companionship  in  the  realms 
of  thought.  This  habit  of  contemplation  without  defi- 
nite purpose  produces  a  psychically  negative  condition. 


THE   MAGNETIC   PROPERTIES   OP   FOOD  413 

"Fasting  is,  primarily,  a  purely  physical  process,  al- 
though it  has  a  strong  reflex  action  upon  the  mind  also. 
When  the  stomach  is  supplied  with  food  all  the  organs 
of  the  physical  body  related  to  the  processes  of  diges- 
tion, distribution,  assimilation  and  secretion  are  in  a 
state  of  involuntary  activity.  The  physical  organism 
is  then  busy  with  the  renovating  and  renewing  proc- 
esses. When,  through  the  process  of  fasting,  all  the 
nutriment  supplied  to  the  system  has  been  disposed  of, 
the  physical  organism  has  nothing  more  to  do  in  its 
own  behalf  but  wait  for  more  food.  During  this  period 
of  waiting  the  internal  organism  of  the  physical  body 
is  in  a  negative  or  passive  condition.  It  then  becomes 
a  magnet  which  strongly  attracts  those  upon  the  spir- 
itual plane,  and  (unless  the  mind  is  properly  schooled 
and  on  guard)  opens  the  door  to  mediumistic  control." 
(A  magnetically  negative  condition.) 

When  I  first  read  the  above  quoted  classifications  of 
foods,  according  to  their  magnetic  properties,  the  ques- 
tion arose  in  my  mind,  What  causes  the  magnetic  polar- 
ity of  foods  and  their  positive  or  negative  influence  on 
body  and  mind?  In  the  contents  of  the  following 
chapter  I  shall  endeavor  to  answer  this  question. 


CHAPTER  X 
POLAEITY  OF  FOODS  AND  MEDICINES 

Two  principal  factors  determine  the  positive  and 
negative  qualities  of  foods  and  medicines : 

First,  the  character  and  unimpaired  activity  of  the 
life  elements  inherent  in  the  foods;  second,  the  contents 
of  the  food  materials  in  positive  and  negative  elements. 

We  shall  now  consider  separately  these  two  factors 
in  polarity. 

This  interesting  subject  of  polarity,  of  the  positive 
and  negative  qualities  of  foods  and  medicines,  is  inti- 
mately interwoven  with  many  other  problems  of  die- 
tetics, as  for  instance,  with  the  meat  and  protein  ques- 
tion. An  understanding  of  polarity  will  help  us  decide 
whether  it  is  wise  to  exclude  the  "dairy  products" 
entirely  from  the  vegetarian  dietary. 

Many  extremists  condemn  the  use  of  milk,  cheese 
and  eggs,  insisting  that  only  products  of  the  soil  should 
enter  into  a  vegetarian  diet.  The  fruitarians  exclude 
from  their  "ideal"  diet  even  those  positive  vegetables 
which  grow  in  and  near  the  ground,  claiming  that  these 
coarsen  the  body.  "We  have  repeatedly  called  atten- 
tion to  the  dangers  of  such  extreme  practices. 

The  Proteid  Question 

About  sixty  years  ago,  Justus  von  Liebich,  the  great 
German  chemist,  called  attention  to  the  fact  that  the 

414 


POLARITY   OP    FOODS    AND    MEDICINES  415 

fleshy  tissues  of  the  animal  and  human  body  consist 
almost  entirely  of  proteid  material.  The  medical  pro- 
fession at  once  jumped  to  the  conclusion  that  in  order 
to  ** build  up"  the  human  body,  large  amounts  of  pro- 
teid foods  must  be  taken.  This  erroneous  assumption 
is  still  ruling  the  dietetics  of  orthodox  medicine.  The 
discoveries  and  resulting  theories  of  J.  von  Liebich 
seemed  to  find  confirmation  in  the  diet  statistics  gath- 
ered by  prominent  physicians. 

Prof.  Voit,  of  Munchen,  found  that  the  average  daily 
dietary  of  the  working  people  contained  118  grams 
proteid,  50  grams  fat  and  500  grams  of  hydrocar- 
bonates.  He  and  the  medical  profession  took  it  for 
granted  that  because  this  was  the  composition  of  the 
average  diet,  it  must  also  be  the  right  one.  They  did 
not  stop  to  consider  that  people  in  general  might  be 
living  on  abnormal  diet  combinations,  though  the  fact 
that  disease  is  almost  universal  and  health  the  excep- 
tion might  furnish  reason  for  thinking  that  something 
was  wrong  with  dietetic  habits. 

The  proteid  advocates  should  also  consider  that  ani- 
mals in  freedom  and  on  pasture  build  their  splendid 
bodies  on  nutritious  grasses,  which  are  exceedingly 
poor  in  proteids.  Milk  also,  which  Nature  has  pro- 
vided as  a  perfect  food  for  the  growing  animal  and 
infant,  contains  a  very  low  percentage  of  proteid ;  while 
meat  contains  from  20  to  25  per  cent  of  nitrogenous 
elements,  milk  contains  only  about  4  per  cent. 

Proteid  being  essentially  a  tissue-building  material, 
one  would  think  that  the  young  and  growing  animal, 
while  building  new  tissues,  would  require  much  more 
proteid  than  the  adult.  The  latest  revelations  of  chem- 
ical analyses  and  physiological  experiments  show  that 
in  the  adult  only  4  per  cent  of  the  daily  food  is  used 


416  NATURAL   DIETETICS 

for  tissue-building,  while  96  per  cent  is  required  for 
the  production  of  heat  and  energy. 

Instead  of  being  the  most  desirable  food  element,  we 
have  learned  that  proteids  are  the  danger  foods,  that 
in  the  digestive  processes  they  produce  the  poisonous 
acids  and  alkaloids,  which  are  the  underlying  causes  of 
the  majority  of  human  ailments. 

These  facts  have  induced  vegetarians  as  a  class  and 
many  diet  reformers  among  physicians  to  become  the 
bitter  enemies  of  proteid  and  to  run  into  the  extreme 
of  proteid  starvation.  By  many  of  these  extremists, 
proteid  foods  of  all  forms  are  avoided  and,  as  suggested 
above,  even  the  dairy  products  tabooed. 

They  must  admit,  however,  that  proteid  foods,  espe- 
cially of  the  animal  varieties,  create  more  heat  and 
energy  in  the  system,  measured  in  calories,  than  the 
vegetable  carbohydrates  (starches  and  sugars)  despite 
the  fact  that  proteids  are  tissue  builders  rather  than 
heat  producers. 

E/ubner,  the  German  food  chemist,  calls  this  extraor- 
dinary display  of  energy  "the  specilBc  dynamic  effect 
of  proteid. ' '  He  and  other  scientists  try  to  explain  this 
by  saying  that  the  display  of  energy  incident  upon  the 
assimilation  of  proteid  food  marks  the  effort  of  vital 
force  to  break  down  and  burn  up  the  waste  products  of 
proteid  materials.  They  distinctly  claim  animal  pro- 
teid contains  much  less  inherent  heat-and-energy-pro- 
ducing  qualities  than  the  vegetable  proteid  and  carbo- 
hydrates. They  assume  that  all  the  heat  and  energy 
in  the  animal  and  human  body  is  derived  from  the  sun 
energy,  stored  up  in  the  vegetable  kingdom.  In  the 
plants,  they  say,  we  eat  "sun  energy." 

In  order  to  avoid  misrepresentation  and  to  give  a 
fair  idea  of  these  representatives  of  extreme  vegetari- 


POLABITT   OP   FOODS   AND   MEDICINES  417 

anism,  I  shall  translate  as  closely  as  possible,  some 
passages  from  a  work  of  Dr.  M.  Bireher-Benner,  en- 
titled, '  *  Grundzlige  der  Ernahrungs-Therapie." 

Beginning  on  page  25  he  says:  "This  transforma- 
tion of  sunlight  into  chemical  energy  takes  place  in 
those  vegetable  cells  which  contain  chlorophyll. 
(Chlorophyll  is  the  element  which  imparts  the  green 
color  to  fruits  and  vegetables.)  What  we  call  proteid, 
starches  and  fats,  are  merely  different  forms  of  sun 
energy  transformed  into  chemical  energy,  and  these 
foodstuffs  contain  nothing  more  than  sun  energy  when 
we  consume  them  in  Jflesh  foods. 

(We  shall  prove  later  on  that  the  assumption  ex- 
pressed in  the  preceding  paragraph  is  erroneous,  that 
something  more  than  sun  energy  is  stored  in  the  tissues 
of  animal  bodies. — Ed.) 

"What  happens  in  the  vegetable  cell?  Out  of  the 
air,  the  plant  absorbs  carbon  dioxide.  This  is  a  com- 
bination of  one  part  carbon  and  two  parts  oxygen.  To 
part  these  elements  requires  a  great  expenditure  of 
energy  and  this  work  of  separation  is  performed  by 
light  or  sun  energy.  The  oxygen,  which  has  been  torn 
away  fifom  the  carbon,  escapes  into  the  air  and  serves 
as  food  for  the  animal  and  human  kingdoms,  while  the 
carbon  in  the  plant  enters  into  combination  with  other 
elements  absorbed  from  the  earth  and  from  the  air. 

(These  newly  formed  molecules  absorb  a  great  deal 
of  the  light,  heat  and  energy  which  have  been  used  in 
their  formation,  just  as  the  ice  molecule  in  its  forma- 
tion absorbs  cold.  This  heat  or  cold  which  has  become 
latent  in  the  plant  or  ice  molecule  is  liberated  .again 
when  the  plant  is  consumed  by  fire  or  when  the  ice  is 
melted  by  warmth. — Ed.) 

"Oxydation  is  nothing  else  than  the  reunion  of  car- 


418  NATURAL   DIETETICS 

bon  in  the  plant  molecule  with  the  oxygen  of  the  air. 
Result,  carbon  dioxide,  which  again  serves  as  food  for 
plants. 

"Sub  energy  also  causes  the  separation  of  water  into 
hydrogen  and  oxygen  and  this  also  involves  a  great 
expenditure  of  energy,  part  of  which  becomes  latent  in 
the  newly  formed  molecules  of  the  vegetable  cell.  When 
in  the  digestive  processes,  carbon  and  oxygen,  which 
had  been  parted  in  the  formation  of  the  vegetable 
molecule,  again  unite,  eiiergj'  is  liberated.  This  storage 
of  energy  during  the  building  up  processes  (anabolism) 
and  the  liberation  of  it  in  the  tearing  down  processes 
(catabolism)  resembles  the  accumulation  of  energy  in 
the  wound  spring  and  its  liberation  while  unwinding. 

''On  the  other  hand  accumulation  of  sun  energy 
takes  place  in  the  plant  through  the  combination  of 
carbon  with  nitrogen  and  hydrogen.  These  elements 
strongly  oppose  union,  but  sun  energy  binds  them 
together.  This  opposition  between  nitrogen  and  car- 
bon is  so  great  that  artificially  it  can  be  overcome  only 
in  the  highest  known  temperatures  created  in  the  elec- 
tric light  arc.  (Just  as  it  takes  a  great  deal  of  heat 
to  unite  two  pieces  of  steel. — Ed.'s  Note.) 

"What  enormous  amounts  of  energy  must  be  stored 
in  these  nitrogen-carbon-hydrogen-combinations  is  in- 
dicated by  the  fact  that  the  most  powerful  explosives, 
acetylene,  dynamite  and  nitro-glycerine,  are  combina- 
tions of  these  elements.  (This  explains  the  "specific 
dynamic  force"  of  proteid,  for  the  basic  element  of 
proteids  is  nitrogen. — Ed.'s  Note.) 

"Thus,  we  see  how  streams  of  energy,  which  the  sun 
sends  to  our  earth,  are  transmuted  into  chemical 
energy ;  then  food  is  sun  energy,  and  living  beings  are 
indeed  children  of  the  sun. 


POLARITY   OF   FOODS  AND   MEDICINES  419 

"In  the  vegetable  kingdom  only,  the  springs  are 
wound  which  drive  the  mechanism  of  life.  Vegetarians 
derive  their  energy  direct  from  Nature,  while  meat- 
eaters  obtain  energy  indirectly  and  in  a  weakened 
form. ' ' 

All  this  reasoning  seems  plausible  and  has  served 
well  the  advocates  of  a  strictly  vegetarian  diet,  but 
unfortunately  for  the  learned  doctor  as  well  as  for  his 
ultra  vegetarian  and  materialistic  friends  their  argu- 
ments are  based  on  false  premises  and  therefore  un- 
tenable. 

The  fallacy  of  their  reasoning  is  due  to  the  fact 
that  the  energies  at  work  in  the  vegetable  kingdom 
are  not,  by  any  means,  the  highest  expression  of  force 
on  this  planet. 

On  the  contrary,  the  vital  forces  animating  our 
planetary  body  manifest  in  four  differing  ranges  or 
ratios  of  vibratory  activity. 

This  explains  why  there  is  a  quality  of  energy  in 
animal  food  which  cannot  be  derived  from  vegetable 
food,  and  this  something  is  the  animal  life  principle, 
animal  magnetism,  or  in  other  words,  a  higher  and 
more  refined  range  of  vibratory  activity  than  those  ani- 
mating the  lower  kingdoms. 

Polarity  and  the  Life  Elements 

In  every  higher  sphere,  matter  is  made  to  vibrate  to 
higher  ratios  of  vibratory  motion  and  moulded  into 
compounds  of  increasing  complexity. 

Four  distinct  life  elements  or  "ranges  of  vibration" 
control  the  four  great  kingdoms  of  life.  The  lowest 
plane  is  controlled  by  the  electro-magnetic  life  prin- 
ciple; the  next  higher  or  vegetable  kingdom  by  th« 


420  NATURAL   DIETETICS 

vito-chemical  life  element;  the  still  higher  animal  king- 
dom is  animated  by  the  spiritual  or  animal  life  element, 
and  the  highest  or  human  plane  by  the  soul  life  ele- 
ment. 

On  the  lowest  plane,  the  electro-magnetic  life  element 
binds  together  the  atoms  into  the  simple  inorganic  com- 
pounds of  the  mineral  plane. 

In  the  vegetable  kingdom,  the  vito-chemical  life  ele- 
ment, by  the  aid  of  sun  energy,  builds  up  the  simple 
compounds  of  minerals  and  water  into  the  refined 
and  complex  living  molecules  of  organic  vegetable 
matter. 

The  elements  of  earth,  air  (sun),  fire  and  water  thus 
organized  or  made  alive  in  the  vegetable  cell  by  the 
vito-chemical  life  element  furnish  the  foods  for  the 
next  higher  animal  and  human  planes. 

The  spiritual  life  element  governing  the  animal 
kingdom  seizes  upon  the  living  matter  of  the  vege- 
table plane  and  refines,  organizes  and  vivifies  i!> 
to  still  higher  potencies  of  vital  force  and  creative 
energy. 

To  recapitulate,  the  four  great  kingdoms  of  earth 
life  are  animated  and  governed  by  four  distinct  life 
elements  which  ^re  equivalent  to  progressively  higher 
and  more  refined  ranges  of  vibratory  activity.  Increase 
of  vibratory  activity  means  increase  of  kinetic  or  work- 
ing energy. 

These  facts  in  natural  science  explain  why,  in  every 
higher  kingdom,  molecules  become  more  complex  and 
possessed  of  greater  potential  energy.  Since  the  build- 
ing of  atoms  into  molecules  involves  the  absorption  of 
the  energy  which  builds  into  that  which  it  is  building, 
every  additional  atom  in  the  molecule  means  additional 
inherent  energy. 


POLAEITY   OF   FOODS   AND   MEDICINES  421 

We  can  now  understand  why  Dr.  B.  B.  says  on  page 
47 :  "In  the  third  chapter,  we  have  discussed  the  dif- 
ferent forms  of  energy  and  the  laws  which  govern  them. 
Having  studied  the  transmutation  of  sun  energy  into 
vegetable  substance,  we  understand  the  meaning  of  the 
sentence,  'Therefore,  in  plants  we  eat  sun  energy.' 
Without  hesitancy  we  may  add  to  this  that  in  flesh 
food  also  we  eat  sun  energy,  for  the  animal  body  builds 
itself  from  animal  food  without  measurable  additions 
of  new  forms  of  energy.  The  foods  of  man  are  derived 
from  the  narrow  confines  of  the  vegetable  and  animal 
kingdom  and  are  transformed  sun  energy  and  chemical 
energy." 

Still  he  finds  himself  confronted  by  the  fact  that 
animal  proteid  when  taken  as  food,  creates  in  the 
human  organism  an  extraordinary  amount  of  heat  and 
energy,  much  more  than  equal  amounts  of  starches  and 
carbohydrates,  in  spite  of  the  fact  that  proteid  is 
looked  upon  rather  as  tissue  building  material  than  as 
a  heat  and  energy  producer. 

The  doctor  tries  to  explain  this  discrepancy  between 
theory  and  actual  fact  in  an  ingenious  manner.  On 
page  37,  he  claims,  "That  the  extraordinary  manifesta- 
tion of  heat  and  energy  following  the  injection  of  pro- 
teid is  not  due  to  the  potential  energy  of  the  proteid, 
but  that  it  represents  the  energy  expended  by  the 
organism  in  its  endeavor  to  oxydize  and  remove  pro- 
teid waste  matter." 

Food  analysis  proves,  however,  that  animal  protein, 
fat  and  carbohydrates  rank  higher  in  digestibility 
and  fuel  value,  measured  in  calories,  per  pound,  than 
the  same  food  elements  taken  from  the  vegetable  king- 
dom. In  making  these  calculations  it  must  be  taken 
into   consideration   that   animal   foods   contain   much 


422  NATURAL   DIETETICS 

more  water  than  cereals,  nuts  and  legumes.  The 
figures  must  be  based  on  water-free  protein  fats  and 
carbohydrates. 

A  calorie  is  the  amount  of  heat  which  would  raise 
the  temperature  of  one  kilogram  of  water  1°  C.  or, 
what  is  nearly  the  same  thing,  one  pound  of  water 
4°  F. 

The  superior  fuel  value  of  animal  foods  flatly  con- 
tradicts the  position  of  Dr.  B.  B.  and  others  who  claim 
they  are  devitalized  food  products,  created  by  second- 
ary sun  forces  liberated  in  animal  bodies  bj'-  the  diges- 
tion of  vegetable  food  products. 

Our  knowledge  of  the  four  life  elements  solves  the 
problem  and  explains  why  animal  food  should  possess 
greater  values  in  heat  and  energy  and  why  it  should 
have  a  more  tonic  effect  on  the  human  organism  than 
purely  vegetable  products. 

From  the  trend  of  this  article  it  does  not  follow  that 
we  advocate  a  meat  diet.  We  resort  to  flesh  foods  only 
in  cases  of  extreme  physical  and  mental  negativity,  in 
order  to  build  up  the  positive  animal  qualities  which 
have  become  depleted,  below  the  normal.  In  such 
cases,  we  have  frequently  found  meat  of  considerable 
value. 

For  the  reasons  brought  forth  in  this  chapter,  we  do 
advocate,  in  the  daily  dietary,  a  liberal  use  of  the  dairy 
products.  In  the  food  products  of  the  live  animal,  we 
partake  of  the  kinetic  energy  of  the  animal  life  element 
without  consuming  at  the  same  time  the  poisonous 
waste  matter  of  the  animal  carcass. 

"What  we  commonly  call  animal  magnetism  is  the 
spiritual  life  element  permeating  and  animating  the 
animal  kingdom.  This  subtle  but  potent  force,  which 
if;  absent  in  the  products  of  the  vegetable  kingdom,  is 


POLARITY  OF  POODS  AND  MEDICINES  423 

presented  to  us  in  the  most  available  form,  unimpaired 
by  cooking,  in  the  dairy  products. 

The  Second  Factor  of  Positive  Polarity 

The  second  factor  in  the  causation  of  positive  and 
negative  polarity  of  foods  and  medicines  lies  in  their 
contents  or  percentages  of  positive  and  negative  ele- 
ments. Aside  from  the  influence  of  the  life  elements, 
the  positivity  of  a  certain  food  or  medicine  depends 
upon  its  richness  in  the  positive,  alkaline  mineral  ele- 
ments, in  the  live  organic  (vitamine)  form.  The  per- 
centages of  the  positive  and  negative  elements  in  the 
principal  foods  and  food  classes  are  shown  in  the 
"Table  of  Food  Analysis,"  on  pages  430  and  431, 
of  this  volume.  A  study  of  this  table  confirms  what 
we  have  constantly  asserted  and  reiterated  in  this  vol- 
ume, namely,  that  the  first  four  groups  of  our  food 
classification,  the  starches,  sugars,  fats  and  proteins, 
are  made  up  entirely  of  electro-magnetically  negative, 
acid-producing  elements,  and  are  therefore  negative, 
and  disease-producing  in  their  effects  upon  the  human 
body,  while  the  fruits,  vegetables  and  other  food  prod- 
ucts of  the  fifth  (mineral)  group  are  exceedingly  rich 
in  the  positive  mineral  elements  and  poor  in  the  nega- 
tive acid-forming  elements,  and  therefore  have  a  posi- 
tive, health-producing  effect  upon  the  system. 

We  will  now  consider  in  how  far  "positiveness"  and 
"normal  function"  are  dependent  on  the  positive  min- 
eral salts  in  food  and  drink. 

Iron 

Iron  In  the  form  of  hemoglobin  is  all-important  as 
a  carrier  of  oxygen  from  the  lungs  into  the  tissues  of 


424  NATURAL   DIETETICS      . 

the  body.  Combustion  is  impossible  without  oxygen, 
and  digestion  is  a  slow  process  of  combustion.  With- 
out combustion  there  can  be  no  heat  production  nor 
any  cremation  and  elimination  of  waste  products. 
Furthermore,  it  has  been  discovered  that  iron  and 
other  minerals  moving  rapidly  in  a  salty  solution 
(sodium-chlorid  in  the  blood)  produce  electric  and 
magnetic  currents.  Therefore  is  iron  one  of  the  most 
important  positive  working  elements  in  the  body. 

Sodium 

Carbon,  oxygen,  hydrogen  and  nitrogen  are  the  four 
unstable,  negative,  gaseous  elements  in  the  human 
body.  Three  of  these — carbon,  oxygen  and  hydrogen 
— make  up  the  various  fuel  materials,  such  as  fats,  oils, 
starches  and  sugars.  They  are  to  the  body  what  coal 
is  to  the  furnace ;  they  liberate  heat  and  energy.  Simi- 
lar to  coal,  they  give  off,  in  the  process  of  combustion, 
a  great  deal  of  carbonic  acid  or  carbon-dioxide  (CO2), 
and  if  this  poisonous  gas  is  allowed  to  accumulate  it 
will  extinguish  the  fire  in  the  furnace  or  the  life  in 
the  body. 

Largely  on  sodium,  a  positive  alkaline  mineral  ele- 
ment, depends  the  elimination  from  the  body  of  the 
carbon-dioxide.  It  accomplishes  this  in  the  following 
manner:  Sodium  circulates  in  the  body  as  di-sodium 
phosphate;  that  is,  in  molecules  which  contain  one 
atom  of  phosphorus  to  two  atoms  of  sodium.  This 
combination,  however,  is  a  loose  one.  One  atom  of 
sodium  to  one  of  phosphorus  forms  a  stable  union,  but 
the  secofid  atom  of  sodium  is  only  a  loose  addition.  As 
soon  as  this  unstable  sodium  atom  finds  a  more  powerful 
attraction    it    leaves    the    phosphorus    and    joins    the 


POLARITY   OP   POODS    AND   MEDICINES  425 

stronger  affinity.  Such  an  affinity  for  sodium  is  carbon- 
dioxide  (COj). 

Tliese  two,  wlien  they  meet  in  the  blood,  form  sodium- 
carbonate,  but  this  union  also  is  not  a  true  and  lasting 
one,  for  when  the  pair  reach  the  lungs,  the  airy  COa 
deserts  its  mate  and  passes  through  expiration  into  the 
open  air.  The  sodium  now  reunites  with  its  old  friend 
phosphorus,  but  on  its  travels  back  into  the  body, 
repeats  the  same  trick  when  it  meets  again  with  CO,. 

Thus  are  enacted  down  at  the  very  foundation  of 
this  universe,  in  the  world  of  atoms,  the  loves,  affinities, 
unions  and  separations,  satisfactions  and  tragedies  of 
the  loves  and  hatreds  of  human  beings. 

If  sodium  is  lacking  in  the  blood,  CO2  accumulates 
and  gradually  asphyxiates  the  processes  of  combustion 
on  which  depend  digestion,  reduction  of  waste  and 
heat  production.  This  becomes  visible  outwardly  by 
loss  of  appetite,  malnutrition,  loss  of  weight,  coldness 
of  hands  and  feet,  blue  color  of  lips,  nails  and  skin; 
in  fact,  by  the  prominent  symptoms  of  anemia,  per- 
nicious anemia  and  consumption. 

In  other  cases  partial  oxydation  of  food  materials 
and  waste  products,  Tinder  the  influence  of  carbon- 
dioxide  poisoning,  causes  fatty  degeneration.  The  food 
materials,  instead  of  being  turned  into  heat  and  energy, 
are  changed  into  fatty  deposits. 

Just  as  insufficient  draft  in  the  furnace  turns  coal 
into  partially  consumed  clinkers,  so  in  the  body  partial 
combustion  turns  the  starchy  foods  into  fat,  instead  of 
reducing  them  into  heat  and  energy.  Therefore  it  hap- 
pens that  the  excessive  consumption  of  starchy  food, 
lack  of  exercise  and  fresh  air,  causes  fatty  degenera- 
tion. People  thus  afflicted  often  complain:  "I  eat  so 
little,  yet  everything  seems  to  turn  into  fat."     Thii 


426  NATURAL   DIETETICS 

is  literally  true  for  the  reason  just  stated.  The  cure 
in  such  cases  consists  in  prompt  elimination  of  the  car- 
bon-dioxide and  better  oxydation,  by  increased  mus- 
cular activity,  by  fresh  air,  deep  breathing  and  by  the 
increased  consumption  of  sodium  in  the  organic  form, 
in  fruits  and  vegetables. 

Thus  we  are  presented  with  the  paradoxical  fact  that 
carbonic  acid  poisoning  may  cause,  according  to  indi- 
vidual constitutional  peculiarities,  in  one  person,  de- 
struction of  tissues  by  pernicious  anemia  or  tubercu- 
losis, and  in  another  person  an  excess  of  fatty  deposits. 
Ill  fact,  many  cases  of  tuberculosis  are  preceded  by 
fatty  degeneration.  This  connection  between  the  two 
is  now  plain.  The  element,  lithium,  though  present  in 
the  body  in  small  quantities  only,  performs  similar 
acid-binding   and    eliminating    functions   to   those    of 

sodium.  yx .      X 

CaJcium  (Lime) 

Lime,  in  connection  with  silicon,  phosphorus  and 
magnesium  makes  up  over  50  per  cent  of  the  bony 
structures  of  the  body;  it  imparts  textile  strength  to 
all  the  tissues.  If  lime,  silicon  and  magnesium  are 
lacking  in  the  daily  dietary,  rachitis  and  scorbutic 
diseases,  scrofula,  tendency  to  bleeding  (hasmophelia), 
osteomalecia,  decay  of  teeth  and  diseases  of  the  hair 
will  be  the  inevitable  results.  Like  other  positive  alka- 
line mineral  elements,  it  also  serves  as  a  neutralizer 
and  eliminator  of  poisonous  acids.    The  action  of 

Magnesium, 

another  one  of  tlie  alkaline  elements,  is  similar  to  that 
of  sodium  and  lime  as  an  eliminator  of  destructive 
acids.  It  is  also  concerned  in  the  production  of  electro- 
magnetic currents  in  the  blood. 


POLABITY   OP   FOODS    AND    MEDICINES  427 

The  Belationship  of  Positive  Alkaline  Salts  to  Nega- 
tive Proteid  Materials 

All  proteid  foods  are  composed  of  the  unstable  nega- 
tive gaseous  elements,  carbon,  oxygen,  hydrogen, 
nitrogen,  and  of  the  negative  earthy  elements,  phos- 
phorus and  sulphur.  Being  very  rich  in  acid-produc- 
ing nitrogen,  phosphorus  and  sulphur,  these  foods  form 
in  the  processes  of  digestion  a  great  deal  of  uric,  phos- 
phoric and  sulphuric  acids.  These  acids,  if  not 
promptly  neutralized  by  the  positive  alkaline  mineral 
bases  (especially  sodium),  accumulate  in  the  system 
and  actually  destroy  the  living  tissues.  To  make  this 
clearer,  for  instance,  if  sodium  is  lacking  in  the  blood, 
the  destructive  acids  satisfy  their  chemical  desire  or 
affinity  for  alkaline  elements  by  leeching  them  from 
bones  and  muscles,  and  thereby  cause  the  weakening 
and  breaking  down  of  these  tissues. 

This  fact  is  strikingly  illustrated  in  the  English 
"Banting  Cure"  for  the  reduction  of  fat  and  flesh. 
This  regime  consists  mainly  of  an  excessive  lean  meat 
diet  with  the  exclusion  of  fats,  starchy  foods  and 
sugar.  Such  a  purely  proteid  diet  produces  large 
amounts  of  uric  and  sulphuric  acids  and  is  deficient  in 
the  acid-binding  alkaline  bases  (sodium  and  magne- 
sium) ;  the  acids,  therefore,  break  do"\vn  and  destroy 
not  only  the  fat,  but  also  the  muscular  tissues.  Reduc- 
tion of  fat  and  flesh  by  such  means,  however,  is  a  de- 
structive disease  process.  This  explains  why  people 
undergoing  such  cures  become  weak  and  nervous  and 
develop  various  forms  of  uric  acid  diseases,  such  as 
rheumatism,  heart  disease,  calculi  (stones)  in  kidneys, 
bladder,  etc. 

We  can  now  understand  why  people  living  almost 


428  NATURAL    DIETETICS 

exclusively  on  "strengthening"  meats  and  eggs  grow 
livid  and  thin,  while  the  emigrant  peasant  girl,  reared 
on  coarse  bread,  roots  and  vegetables,  is  plump  and 
strong,  and  why  she  loses  her  milk-and-blood  com- 
plexion after  a  few  years  of  American  "high  living." 

Potassinm 

This  positive,  alkaline  mineral  element  serves  also 
as  a  neutralizer  and  eliminator  of  acids,  alkaloids  and 
ptomaines.  It  is  to  the  muscular  tissues  what  lime  is 
to  the  bony  structures,  that  is,  it  forms  the  solid  basis 
of  the  fleshy  tissues,  and  imparts  to  them  textile 
strength. 

This  brief  survey  of  the  positive  mineral  elements 
and  their  functions  in  the  body  now  explains  whj' 
foods  rich  in  these  "organic  salts"  exert  a  positive 
influence  on  the  human  organism  and  its  functions. 

It  is  apparent  now  why  an  excess  of  proteid  and 
starchy  foods  in  the  daily  dietary  and  a  simultaneous 
shortage  of  mineral  salts  will  inevitably  clog  the  sys- 
tem with  waste  matter  and  destructive,  poisonous 
acids,  alkaloids  and  ptomaines. 


CHAPTER  XI 

CLASSIFICATION    OF    FOODS    ACCORDING    TO 
THEIR  ELECTRO-MAGNETIC  QUALITIES 

(See  diagrams  on  pages  430-431.) 

CLASS  I 

Animal    Foods — ^Positive 

Life  Elements:  Electro-magnetic  (mineral  king- 
dom) ;  Vito-chemical  (vegetable  kingdom) ;  Animal 
(animal  kingdom). 

Milk  and  Eed,  Arterial  Blood — The  Only  Normal   (Standard) 
Food  Combinations  in  Nature 

Properties :  Flesh  Building ;  Blood,  Bone  and  Nerve 
Building;  Heating,  Acid-Binding  and  Eliminating. 

Milk  and  red  blood  are  electro-magnetically  positive 
foods  because,  in  addition  to  the  mineral  and  vegetable 
life  elements,  they  are  animated  by  the  animal  life 
element  and  because,  in  proportion  to  the  negative  ele- 
ments, they  contain  fairly  large  amounts  of  positive 
mineral  elements. 

Eggs 

Properties:  Heating;  Flesh  Building;  Acid-Form- 
ing. 

Eggs  contain  large  amounts  of  highly  organized  fats 
and  proteid  materials  and,  in  proportion  to  these,  run 
rather  low  in  the  positive  mineral  elements,  especially 
in  the  important  acid  binding  sodium.    They  therefore 

429 


430 


NATURAL   DIETETICS 


■'^  a!   0)   u 

M  «    3    C« 

^  «*" « 

rt  (»    9    IB 

CO  03     S^     tt> 

rt  2  =j  ,a 


>  o'r' 
•^  ot> 

'3i  c  a  • 
o  •-<  c 

"H  a  o 
go 

rt  *~-^  (-^  .^  ^ 

■tJ  ?  _  ':2  m 

«   (D    !^ 


o  p. 


:5  d 


fcD 


fcjca 


•9 


..    .11 

M  (B  cj  .J; 
^  >  ^^ 


c  — 
>  n 
o  J- 

C   - 


Cu 


pnnod 
■.ail   sijnn   Suprnwjd    juan 


ninisanSBK  'snin 
'iio.ii  'oiiupos  'uiujssujo.i 
:z[A  'siBiaejBjv  ^JJ  je;Bii 
u!  sjajtudio  eunciiiB  iBje 
-inrn  aAnisod  jo  aSBjnaDJaj 


o  o  o 

(M  t-1  t^ 

CO  CO  O 


lo  o  o  Lo  o  o  o  o  LT  o  in    lo 

C  O  i-i  r-1  Ci  C£  CI  »  CI  t^  «0      O 
I— ICOi— ll— I  I— 'I— I  eg  CO 


•^  o  CO  uo  CI  a> 

L-3  L-.  L-.  T-H  1-.  U2 

co"  Tt*  c\i  CO  CO  -o 


•O  O  t^  O  Ol  t^  Ol  '.O  ^  O  ■<**  CO  o 

o  CO  cj  Tt;  c^i  iq  cj  --o  r- _  o  iq  x  a> 

Cgr- li-irH  r-l  r-li-(         i-t 


> 


A( 
ptiB  ITI  entnnioo  nt  sponj 
dlcrpiM-oqiBO  pnB  pia} 
-o.icl  atu  ni  sjnonisp  oaij 
-B3on  aiu  JO  oox  jad  siBior. 


OOTt<COrHt-t^i-l«C>COt^COCO 
Cq  O  O  C5  O  CO  «5  C5  -^^  rH  CO  00  i-H 

LO  -+■  o  t©  t>.'  t>  T}i  c j  cj  in  co'  c^i  ci 

t-l  1-1  OJ  (M 


M 

a 

o 

o 

u 

C3 

C4 

U 

U 

«> 

R< 

> 

*j 

ho 

Pu, 

Z 

JI2  Sa 

2  K  2 


3  s  k 


;0  •<*<  O  O  O  r-l 


000]t~Tj<L-OC005COLOOOC^'10 
Ci  C5  p  CO  Tl<  L-O  O  i-H  ■<#  t-  Ca  l~;  p 

CO  o  «b  ■*  -"^  rji  ei  oj  t-^  CO  (m"  o  1-' 


CO  CO  CM  O  lO  o 


oO'-'OooTj^mr-ir-ii.oosi-'jirj 

TtlOI>;CMlOCOCJCOi-ii-'P'-:'-; 

d  r-i  o  o  o  o  o  o  o  o  d  d  d 


•g  VI    M  'H 
0  -0  siuaiu 

-,1(3  pOOJ 

snonaSoa^iji 


ooiHOjOioooiiHoaeocqiniao 

OJ  ■.#  CO  00  -"l^  -TjJ  b-.  ■<i<  p  C<J  o  p  p 
dcaCOi-ioaC<ii-?i-5r-5rHrHr-ICQ 


OOt  i^  sjJBd 
jajBAi 


01  oi  i>-  eg  o  t^ 

p  •<*  p  00  o  p 

t--'  t^  CO  o  cq  d 

00  00  l^  00  t^  00 


O0ait^t-C3L'5COIO-<J(0000 

-t  Tti  p  p  Tj;  00  t-;  CO  p  CO  p  ■^.  p 

,■)^  rH  r--I  oi  CO  d  CO  •*'  t-^  CO  LO  uo  in 

C10000QOOOOOC500CJOit-t- 


Q 

as 


Wo 


HOpJcc 


31    a>    OQ    R 

«    o    0)   CJ 

.«  a  "  ~ 


0^cSc4CliC«^«cJrtGpC 
E-iftQQOQQCi<;iJOP?Of^^ 


CLASSIFICATION   OP   POODS 


431 


"5  W) 
S  -^ 

-s.a 
©  s 


II 

if 


o-s 


A^ 


s:3 


B-o 


a 

a 

0) 
Hi 


rt 


^>W 


rt  S  S  &fp 
f;     « 9'^ 

a)  .^  m  Hi. 


a  " 

<L>    O) 

fl5      '^ 


I    lb 

rt  g  «  bcS 
V-5  5 


o 


o  o  in  o 
5C  o  o  to 
CO  fC  <M  1— I 


U5  kO  o  uo  o 
ro  O  C5  1-H  to 
(M  fO  CO  <M  CO 


m  U-5  O  O  O  O  O 
t~  O  00  O  I— I  lO  CO 
rH  CO  CO  to  (?CI  to  (M 
i-i  i-l         CQ  ■*         1-1 


o  o  o  o 

O  1-1  00  i-H 
CO  <M  ■*  t~ 


o  o  o 

1-1  ■<*<  to 

T}<  in  lo 


in  o  o  o 
in  -^  CO  CO 
to  to  to  to 


m  CO  -^  (M  1*1 


rH  Tt*  CO  W       .'  •<*  !>. 


rH  Cq  (M  CO 


00  to  ■*  to 
00  Til  o  oq 

i-H     *  r-!  o" 


o  o  T}<  in  1^ 

CO  t-  to  TjH  to 

in  (m'  oo"  CO  ci 


O  (M  tH  Tjt  o  o-i  o 
to  to  C5  1-;  O  C5  C5 

-i  to  >n  o  tj5  ci 
in  t~  cq  00  o  1-1 1^ 


w  c-i  to  o 

^    Ttl    Tjl    t- 

-^  !>:  O 

OO  rt<  to  t~ 


•<*l  cq  00  1-1  <M 


o  o  cq  o  •  o  o 

O  O  CO  o  •  •*_  Tj< 

to  ci  to'  00  'CO  b~' 

in  to  oj  cq  .  1-1  to 


o  o 
Ci  to 
o  o" 


O  O  O  o 

a;  o  in  o 
1— I  O  O  CO 

in  o 


to  CO  to  o 

CC  C5  O  ij* 

oi  in  CO  o 

to  CO  CO  CO 


o  to  o  in  t~ 

00  CO  •<*  to  to 

o  o  o  o  o 


O  TJH  Oi  Tjl 

1— I  CO  m  cq 
CO  i-i  o  in 


in  o  Ln  Ti( 

CO  "*  00  05 
CJ  O  b-'  to' 


t^  t-~  oco 


Oo 

to  rH 

09  CO 


-*  to  to  to 


in  o  1-1  in 
to  ■*_  1-;  in 

co'  co'  co'  ©q 


I   o   o   « 
'  S  o  S 


®  w  ^  «.2 
(3  7;  S  «  i^ 

o3   g<  3   c3   o 


be 


O   m 
c4   05 

«  "^  ,,  a  n 
=s.^.i  9-5 


fM 


OOOWM) 


"S^    OB 

9  rt  5  5 


o  — .  « 


♦J    fl    CQ 

o  cs  ca 
OP  a>  V 


;« 


o 

cj   cj  "^   « 


432  NATXJRAL    DIETETICS 

tend  to  produce,  in  the  processes  of  digestion,  large 
amounts  of  acids,  alkaloids,  ptomaines  and  noxious 
gases.  This  explains  why  ** stuffing"  with  eggs  fails 
to  cure  consumption.  This  disease,  as  well  as  other 
wasting  diseases,  is  made  more  incurable  by  unnatural 
food  stuffing  and  by  poisonous  drugs. 

Storage  eggs  are  especially  prone  to  the  formation 
of  ptomaine  poisoning. 

Though  low  in  positive  mineral  elements,  eggs  are 
classed  as  positive  because  they  are  animated  by  the 
animal  life  element.  They  should  be  used  sparingly, 
and  always  in  conjunction  with  foods  belonging  to 
Group  V  (mineral  elements). 

Flesh  Foods 

Properties:  Heating;  Flesh  Building;  Acid-Form- 
ing. 

Comparative  analyses  of  blood  and  the  muscular 
parts  of  animals  disclose  the  fact  that,  while  blood 
is  rich  in  sodium  and  iron,  bloodless  meat  (boiled  or 
roasted,  as  it  is  usually  eaten)  is  very  deficient  in 
these  elements  and  therefore  negative  and  acid-pro- 
ducing. Potassium,  the  principal  mineral  element  lq 
meat,  serves  as  a  solid  basis  for  the  unstable  proteid 
materials  of  which  flesh  is  composed.  Meat-eaters, 
therefore,  in  order  to  be  consistent,  should,  like  car- 
niverous  animals  and  primitive  races,  consume  the 
blood  as  well  as  the  flesh.  The  organic  salts  lacking  in 
cooked  meat  have  to  be  supplanted  by  the  inorganic 
mineral  table  salt — hence  the  craving  of  the  meat-eater 
for  salt. 

The  flesh  of  sea  fish,  living  in  water  saturated  vnth 
positive  mineral  elements  (iron,  lime,  sodium,  lithium, 
chloride,  magnesium,  etc.),  is  richer  in  alkaline  mineral 


CLASSIFICATION   OP    POODS  433 

elements,  and  therefore   more  positive,  than  that  of 
fresh  water  fish  and  the  meat  of  land  animals. 

Dr.  Lahman  and  others  mention  the  fact  that  the 
flesh  of  wild  animals  is  much  richer  in  organic  salts 
than  that  of  domestic  animals,  which  is  easily  explained 
when  we  consider  that  wild  animals  live  on  nutritious, 
uncultivated  grasses,  rich  in  mineral  salts,  while  do- 
mestic animals  are  raised  and  fattened  only  too  often 
on  distillery,  brewery  and  kitchen  slops,  or  other  de- 
vitalized food  materials  deprived  of  their  mineral 
elements. 

CLASS  n 

Leafy,  Juicy  VegetalDles  which  Grow  In  and  Near  the 
Ground — Positive 

Life  Elements:  Electro-magnetic  (mineral  king- 
dom) ;  Vito-chemical   (vegetable  kingdom). 

Properties:  Blood,  Bone  and  Nerve  Building;  Acid- 
Binding  and  Eliminating;  Medicinal  Qualities. 

A  survey  of  our  analytical  table  (pages  430-431) 
shows  that  the  foods  belonging  to  this  group  are  much 
richer  in  the  positive  mineral  salts  than  the  animal 
foods;  still,  vegetables  are  not  as  positive  in  their 
effects  upon  the  human  body  as  the  animal  foods  be- 
cause they  are  animated  by  a  lower  (vito  chemical) 
life  element.  However,  they  are  all-important  for  the 
maintenance  of  health,  because  their  positive  alkaline 
mineral  elements  are  the  most  effective  neutralizers 
and  eliminators  of  the  poisonous  acids,  alkaloids  and 
ptomaines  produced  by  the  ingestion  and  digestion  of 
animal  foods. 

The  highly  nitrogenous  meat  diet  ia  not  nearly  so 
harmful  when  properly  combined  with  a  liberal  amount 
of  green  vegetables,  as  is  customary  in  European  coun- 


434  NATURAL   DIETETICS 

tries.  It  is  the  all-meat-potat9-wliite-bread-coffee-and- 
pie  American  diet  which  makes  for  the  prevalence  of 
uric  acid  diseases,  indigestion,  constipation,  appendi- 
citis, cancer  and  nervous  ailments.  The  foods  belong- 
ing to  this  group,  on  account  of  their  great  richness  in 
the  positive,  alkaline,  mineral  elements  are  the  real 
blood,  bone  and  nerve  builders,  as  explained  in  other 
chapters. 

Roots  and  Tubers 

Life  Elements:  Electro-magnetic  (mineral  king- 
dom); Vito-chemieal   (vegetable  kingdom). 

Properties;  Heating;  Blood,  Bone  and  Nerve  Build- 
ing; Flesh  Building;  Acid-Binding  and  Eliminating. 

Carrots  and  beets  are  very  rich  in  dextroses  and 
glucoses,  which,  next  to  the  fniit  sugars,  are  the  purest 
and  finest  of  natural  sugars.  They  are  therefore  valu- 
able fuel  materials.  Most  of  the  roots  run  rather  low 
in  starches  and  proteids,  but  high  in  the  positive,  alka- 
line mineral  elements,  which  makes  them  good  anti- 
dotes to  the  poisonous  acids,  alkaloids  and  ptomaines 
produced  by  the  highly  nitrogenous  animal,  leguminous 
and  cereal  foods. 

Some  of  the  roots  have  valuable  medicinal  qualities, 
as  explained  in  Chapter  III  (pages  25  and  26). 

Potatoes  run  low  in  proteids  (about  2  per  cent),  but 
fairly  high  in  starches  (about  20  to  25  per  cent).  Our 
analytical  table  shows  that  they  are  not  nearly  as  rich 
in  these  elements  as  the  cereals.  However,  they  rank 
higher  than  the  cereals  in  the  positive  mineral  ele- 
ments, especially  in  lime  and  potassium.  It  is  prob- 
ably for  this  reason  that  they  are  so  well  liked  by 
children  who  need  a  great  deal  of  these  tissue-building 
elements. 


CLASSIFICATION   OF  FOODS  435 

CLASS  III 
E  erries — Positive 

Life  Elements:  Electro-magnetic  (mineral  king- 
dom) ;  Vito-chemieal  (vegetable  kingdom). 

Properties:  Heating  (according  to  their  contents  in 
sugars) ;  Blood,  Bone  and  Nerve  Building;  Acid- 
Binding  and  Eliminating;    Medicinal  Qualities. 

Berries,  in  general,  run  very  liigh  in  the  positive 
mineral  elements  and  very  low  in  the  negative  starches 
and  proteids.  Some  of  them,  like  the  blackberries, 
raspberries,  blueberries  and  huckleberries,  are  rich  in 
highly  organized  fruit  sugars.  Their  juices  contain 
valuable  medicinal  elements.  They  are  animated  by 
the  vito-chemical  life  element. 

Because  they  are  comparatively  much  richer  in  the 
positive  alkaline  mineral  elements  than  in  the  negative 
elements  of  the  first  four  groups  they  are  classed  as 
electro-magnetically  positive  in  their  effects  upon  the 
human  body. 

CLASS  IV 

Juicy  Fruits — ^Positive 

Life  Elements:  Electro-magnetic  (mineral  king- 
dom); Vito-chemical  (vegetable  kingdom). 

Properties:  Heating  (according  to  their  contents 
in  sugars)  ;  Blood,  Bone  and  Nerve  Building ;  Acid- 
Binding  and  Eliminating;   Medicinal  Qualities. 

To  this  group  belong  all  the  hardy  acid  and  sub-acid 
fruits,  such  as"  lemons,  oranges,  grapefruit,  tangerines, 
peaches,  apples,  plums,  pears,  cherries,  pineapples,  etc. 
The  foods  of  this  group  are  animated  by  the  vito-chem- 
ical life  element.  They  run  from  medium  high  to  high 
in  the  positive  mineral  elements  and  very  low  in  the 
negative  starches  and  proteids.    They  also  exert  a  posi- 


436  NATURAL   DIETETICS 

tive  influence  on  the  organism  because  they  are  natural 
laxatives,  cholagogues,  purifiers  and  antiseptics.  Their 
natural  sugars  are  the  most  easily  combustible  of  all 
heat  and  energy  producing  foods.  They  are  therefore 
the  finest  natural  tonics  and  stimulants.  Distilled  in 
Nature's  own  laboratory',  their  juices  are  absolutely 
pure  and  the  most  delicious  drinks  for  man — they  are 
indeed  the  nectar  of  the  gods. 

CLASS  V 
Sweet  Alkaline  Fruits — ^Medium  Positive 

Life  Elements:  Electro-magnetic  (mineral  king- 
dom); Vito-chemical  (vegetable  kingdom). 

Properties:  Heating  (according  to  their  contents 
in  sugars)  ;  Blood,  Bone  and  Nerve  Building ;  Acid- 
Binding  and  Eliminating;   Medicinal  Qualities. 

To  this  group  belong  the  melon  family,  cucumbers 
and  grapes.  The  foods  of  this  group  rank  fairly  high 
in  the  positive  alkaline  mineral  elements  and  very  low 
in  the  negative  starches  and  proteids,  but  they  contain 
large  amounts  of  fruit  sugars,  which  are  magnetically 
negative.  Therefore,  we  rank  them  as  medium  posi- 
tive. The  juices  of  these  fruits  have  highly  medicinal 
qualities.  They  are  splendid  natural  laxatives  and 
purifiers.  Their  highly  organized  sugars  are  the  rich- 
est of  fuel  materials  and  natural  stimulants  and  tonics. 

Figs  and  dates  may  also  be  placed  in  this  class,  as 
they  are  similar  in  their  electro-magnetic  and  medicinal 
qualities  to  the  foods  of  this  group. 

CLASS  VI 
Nuts — Negative 

Life  Elements:  Electro-magnetic  (mineral  king- 
dom); Vito-chemical   (vegetable  kingdom). 


CLASSIFICATION  OF  FOODS  437 

Properties :    Heating ;  Flesh  Building ;  Acid  Forming. 

A  glance  at  our  analytical  table  tells  us  why  these 
foods  are  negative.  They  are  exceedingly  rich  in  pro- 
teids,  fats  and  carbohydrates,  but  rank  very  low  in 
positive  organic  salts.  This  explains  why  "nuts  crave 
salt;"  why  so  many  people  find  nuts  "indigestible;" 
why  the  "Fruits  and  Nuts"  idealists  run  physically 
and  mentally  into  negative  conditions. 

CLASS  vn 

Legumes — Negative 

Life  Elements:  Electro-magnetic  (mineral  king- 
dom); Vito-chemical  (vegetable  kingdom). 

Properties:  Heating;  Flesh  Building;  Acid-Form- 
ing. 

Our  tables  show  that  the  foods  of  this  group  run  veiy 
low  in  positive  mineral  elements,  while  they  are  exceed- 
ingly rich  in  the  negative,  starchy  and  proteid  ele- 
ments. In  other  words,  they  are  very  rich  in  the  acid- 
producing  starches  and  proteids  and  very  poor  in  the 
acid-binding  and  eliminating  alkaline  mineral  elements. 
Therefore,  if  not  properly  combined  with  adequate 
amounts  of  juicy  fruits  and  green  vegetables,  they  may 
become  as  dangerous  to  health  as  meats. 

OLASS  vm 

GralUB — Negative 

Life  Elements:  Electro-magnetic  (mineral  king- 
dom); Vito-chemical   (vegetable  kingdom). 

Properties:  Heating;  Flesh  Building;  Acid-Form- 
ing. 

All  grains  are  exceedingly  negative.  While  they 
contain  large  amounts  of  proteid  and  starchy  mate- 


438  NATURAL    DIETETICS 

rials,  they  are  very  poor  in  the  positive  mineral  salts, 
and  what  little  they  possess  of  these  important  elements 
is  stored  in  the  hulls  and  in  the  dark  outer  layers.  In 
order  to  comply  with  the  popular  demand  for  white 
flour  and  rice,  these  outer  layers  are  removed  in  the 
milling  processes,  and  thus  the  grains  and  rice  are 
robbed  of  the  most  valuable  blood  and  bone-making 
elements.  Bran  and  rice  polish  are  therefore  exceed- 
ingly rich  in  mineral  salts  and  very  valuable  foods  for 
our  domestic  animals.  The  latter  wax  strong  and  fat 
on  the  "refuse"  of  the  mills,  rich  in  organic  salts,  while 
the  farmer  grows  thin  and  dyspeptic  on  his  "fine  white 
flour."  Oriental  nations  use  unpolished  rice,  which  is 
much  richer  in  flavor  and  better  fitted  to  sustain  life 
than  our  refined  but  impoverished  mill  products.  On 
pages  12  and  13  we  have  explained  how  the  refining 
and  polishing  robs  the  grains  and  rice  of  their  vita- 
mines. 

Conclusions 

Let  us  see  now  whether,  after  this  brief  survey  of 
our  food  tables  we  can  explain  some  of  the  mysteries 
and  perplexities  of  dietetics.  We  can  understand  now 
why  our  American  vegetarians,  living  largely  upon 
devitalized  leguminous  and  grain  products,  with  a 
liberal  allowance  of  nuts,  peanuts  and  olive  oil,  often 
fare  worse  than  people  living  on  the  mixed  diet,  and 
become  "warning  examples"  to  the  meat-eaters. 

Highly  dangerous  to  those  who  are  already  negative 
and  sensitive  is  also  the  "fruit  and  nut"  diet.  It  is 
only  a  naturally  very  positive  "animal"  constitution 
that  can  afford  to  live  on  such  a  negative  and  highly 
refining  diet.  Many  "fruit  and  nut"  enthusiasts  ex- 
pressly exclude  from  their  dietary  all  things  growing 


CLASSIFICATION   OP   FOODS  439 

in  and  under  the  ground,  and  the  dairy  products,  "be- 
cause they  are  coarsening  and  tend  to  develop  the 
animal  nature."  They  forget,  in  their  endeavor  to 
make,  by  the  diet  route,  short  cuts  to  masterhood  and 
Godhood,  that  in  these  strenuous  physical,  material 
surroundings  we  need  in  our  daily  business  a  consid- 
erable amount  of  the  positive  animal  magnetic  qual- 
ities. 

Negative  food  combinations,  excessive  fasting,  con- 
centrating in  the  silence,  yogi  breathing  exercises,  sub- 
jective psychism  and  other  subjective  practices  lead 
many  misguided  idealists  and  enthusiasts  into  physical 
and  mental  breakdown  and  not  a  few  into  abnormal 
psychism,  obsession,  and  insanity. 

It  is  a  pity  that  so  many  fake  occultists  use  the  pure 
and  simple  teachings  of  common-sense  German 
"Nature  Cure"  as  a  bait  and  a  cloak  for  pernicious 
mystical  pretensions. 

These  charlatans  know  full  well  that  people  are  so 
hungry  for  the  simple  truths  and  efficient  methods  of 
Nature  Cure  that  they  will  swallow  with  them  any 
amount  of  dangerous  occult  impositions. 

A  look  at  the  mineral  constituents  of  grain  and  rice 
answers  effectively  the  common  argument  of  the  anti- 
vegetarian,  "Look  at  your  vegetarian  nations  in  the 
Orient,  the  Hindoos  and  Chinese.  Would  you  lower 
us  to  their  physical  and  mental  level  by  the  adoption 
of  a  vegetarian  diet?" 

Grains  and  rice  rank  lowest  in  the  scale  of  negative 
foods,  and  it  is  therefore  no  wonder  that  people  living 
almost  exclusively  on  these  staples  should  be  sub- 
normal physically  and  mentall3\  No  wonder  they  are 
no  match  for  the  bloody  beefsteak-consuming  Briton 
and  German. 


440  NATURAL   DIETETICS 

A  rational  vegetarian  diet  properly  combined,  con- 
sisting of  dairy  products,  the  positive  vegetables,  and 
the  medium  positive  fruits,  with  just  enough  of  starchy 
and  proteid  foods  to  supply  the  needs  of  the  body  for 
tissue  building  and  fuel  materials,  will  be  found  to  be 
an  ideal  diet,  fully  sufficient  to  sustain  health  and 
strength  under  the  most  trying  circumstances. 

We  admit  that  there  are  cases  of  physical  and  nerv- 
ous breakdown  in  which  magnetic  conditions  have 
become  so  negative  that  a  meat  diet  is,  at  least  tem- 
porarily, of  great  advantage  to  supply  the  lack  of 
animal  magnetism.  The  animal  magnetism  attached 
to  flesh  foods,  however,  is  only  borrowed,  and  is  con- 
taminated by  the  poisonous  waste  matter  of  the  dead 
animal  carcass.  Therefore,  we  have  seen  people  cured 
by  the  Salisbury  raw  meat  diet,  out  of  nervous  pros- 
tration into  rheumatism,  heart  disease,  calculi  in  kid- 
neys and  bladder,  and  into  other  uric  acid  diseases. 

Nature  Cure  follows  a  wiser  plan.  By  its  stimulat- 
ing methods  of  natural  treatment  and  eliminating  yet 
positive  vegetarian  diet,  it  puts  the  organism  of  the 
patient  in  such  condition  that  it  can  generate  its  own 
positive  magnetic  forces. 


CHAPTER  Xn 
THE  PSYCHOLOGY  OF  DIGESTION 

All  that  we  can  do  is  to  give  the  general  outlines  of 
food  selection;  the  details  and  individual  application 
must  be  worked  out  personally.  No  two  organisms  are 
just  alike,  and  their  requirements  of  food  and  drink 
diiier  in  quantity  and  quality  from  day  to  day,  espe- 
cially in  times  of  healing  crises,  under  Nature  Cure 
treatment.  As  the  system  changes,  as  the  morbid 
materials  are  eliminated  and  new  and  normal  tissues 
elaborated,  the  demands  of  the  organism  for  certain 
food  elements  constantly  change.  Always,  however, 
within  the  well-defined  limits  of  natural  food  selection. 

Sometimes,  for  weeks,  the  patient  will  Kve  almost 
entirely  on  celery  and  cabbage  slaw;  then  he  may  de- 
velop a  craving  for  tomatoes  or  carrots ;  again  he  may 
exhibit  a  strong  desire  for  certain  fruits  or  nuts. 

Yf e  always  advise  our  patients  to  satisfy  these  crav- 
ings, which  are  especially  peculiar  to  pregnancy  and 
to  periods  of  healing  crises.  They  usually  indicate  a 
special  need  of  the  system  for  certain  elements  con- 
tained in  these  foods. 

Caprice  and  false  appetite,  however,  must  not  be 
mistaken  for  ''natural  craving,"  and  even  the  latter 
should  not  be  encouraged  nor  satisfied  continually  un- 
less it  falls  within  the  limits  of  natural  food  selection. 

Frequently,  when  we  outline  our  system  of  dietetics 
to  a  new  patient  he  exclaims  in  horror,  **Why,  I  could 
not  possibly  eat  this  or  that ;  it  would  kill  me, ' '  or  the 

441 


4^  NATURAL   DIETETICS 

complaint  is,  "I  like  those  vegetables,  but  they  do  not 
like  me;  they  cause  great  distress.  Must  I  eat  them 
in  spite  of  this  ? ' ' 

"No,"  we  answer,  **if  such  is  the  case,  do  not  use 
them  for  the  present ;  you  probably  will  use  them  after 
a  while.  Select  at  first,  within  the  right  limits,  those 
fruits  and  vegetables  which  agree  •with  you.  As  your 
digestive  organs  become  more  normal  you  will  add  to 
your  dietary,  one  after  another,  the  luscious  fruits  and 
vegetables  which  now  invariably  cause  pain,  noxious 
gases  and  other  symptoms  of  fermentation  and  indi- 
gestion." 

Present  disease  conditions  were  caused  by  a  lack  of 
these  foods  and  the  organic  salts  which  they  contain. 
A  permanent  cure  can  be  produced  only  by  the  gradual 
adoption  of  the  acid  solving  and  acid  binding  foods, 
even  if  temporarily  they  create  a  commotion  in  the 
heavily  encumbered  organs  and  tissues. 

A  thorough  house-cleaning  makes  the  dirt  fly,  and  a 
thorough  body  cleansing  in  like  manner  stirs  the 
poisons  from  their  lairs,  throws  them  into  the  circula- 
tion and  brings  them  in  contact  with  the  living  tissues, 
thus  producing  the  acute  aggravations  of  healing 
crises.  But  as  we  cannot  have  a  clean  house  to  live  in 
without  an  occasional  scouring  so  we  cannot  have  a 
clean  body  without  an  occasional  healing  crisis.  Wlien 
you  begin  to  live  on  a  natural  diet,  never  mind  the 
unpleasant  disturbances,  the  capricious  and  alternating 
diarrhceas  and  constipations;  they  all  belong  to  the 
game  of  house-cleaning  and  renovating. 

These  changes  and  crises  in  the  physical  body  are 
usually  accompanied  by  great  mental  depression,  nerv- 
ousness, irritability  and  melancholia.  The  old  things 
are  passing  away  and  the  new  are  coming  in.    It  is  the 


THE  PSYCHOLOGY    OP    DIGESTION  443 

"vastation"  of  the  old  and  the  generation  of  the  new 
man.  Hence  the  queer  feeling  of  "goneness,"  of  "be- 
ing lost"  and  "homesickness"  so  often  described  by 
our  patients  in  times  of  healing  crises. 

Idiosyncrasies 

Idiosyncrasies  are  peculiar  habits  of  body  and  mind. 
Most  individuals  exhibit  some  idiosyncrasy  of  eating. 
They  cannot  eat  certain  wholesome  foods :  one  cannot 
eat  an  apple,  another  has  an  abhorrence  for  bread,  still 
another  becomes  nauseated  when  eating  sweets. 

Some  of  these  peculiar  traits  are  congenital  and  due 
to  prenatal  influences ;  others  are  caused  by  eating  too 
much  or  too  often  of  a  certain  kind  of  food.  Some- 
times they  are  due  to  mental  or  psychic  neui'oses;  in 
other  instances  disease  conditions  in  the  body  revolt 
against  a  certain  food  or  foods  and  create  the  idio- 
syncrasy. 

"Whatever  the  cause  of  these  annoying  dislikes  and 
antipathies  they  can  be  overcome  by  improving  the  gen- 
eral condition  of  the  organism — of  the  digestive  organs 
in  particular— and  by  auto-suggestion. 

Every  evening  before  falling  asleep,  dwell  upon  the 
thought  that  the  particular  food  which  in  the  past  has 
annoyed  or  distressed  you,  henceforth  will  perfectly 
agree  with  you.  Say  to  yourself,  "  It  is  a  good,  whole- 
some and  beautiful  food ;  it  contains  valuable  elements 
of  nutrition  which  I  need  in  the  economy  of  my  body. 
There  is  no  reason  why  I  should  not  eat  it.  I  will  not 
allow  my  subconscious  mind  to  tyrannize  over  my  wak- 
ing consciousness.  I  am  master  of  my  feelings  and  my 
actions  and  not  the  plaything  of  pre-natal  influences, 
foolish  fear  and  morbid  suggestions.  I  am  the  master 
of  my  body,  mind  and  soull" 


444  NATUEAL   DIETETICS 

Mental  Dyspepsia 

Many  people  spoil  the  beneficial  effects  of  the  natural 
food  regimen  by  excessive  anxiety.  No  matter  how 
good  the  advice  and  how  carefully  they  follow  it,  they 
are  always  in  fear  of  making  mistakes  about  this  food 
or  that,  of  eating  too  much  or  eating  too  little;  they 
ponder  every  morsel  and  worry  over  it ;  then  for  a  day 
or  two  they  analyze  their  symptoms  and  try  to  deter- 
mine how  this  dish  of  gruel  or  that  bit  of  cheese 
affected  them. 

Such  a  mental  attitude  is  weakening  and  destructive ; 
it  will  poison  the  most  wholesome  food  and  drink. 
Mental  dyspepsia  wiU  inevitably  express  itself  in  phys- 
ical indigestion  and  malnutrition. 

To  the  best  of  your  ability,  make  your  food  selec- 
tions: so  much  of  the  organic  salt  group,  so  much  of 
proteid,  and  so  much  of  carbohydrates. 

When  an  understanding  of  the  rudiments  of  food 
chemistry  has  been  acquired,  the  right  selections  are 
made  without  trouble  and  almost  intuitively.  "When 
the  food  is  on  the  table,  forget  the  problems  of  die- 
tetics, put  all  thoughts  of  business,  work  and  study  far 
from  you  and  center  your  attention  on  pleasant  things, 
on  the  joy  of  eating. 

With  every  morsel  duly  masticated  swallow  a  happy 
thought  or  a  pleasant  emotion.  Build  castles  in  the 
air,  be  merry,  have  a  friendly  word  and  a  happy  smile 
for  wife  and  child  or  for  your  chance  acquaintance  at 
the  table  d'hote. 

The  medieval  court  jester,  whose  office  it  was  to 
amuse  the  guests  at  feast  or  banquet,  was  a  sensible 
and  useful  institution,  much  more  worthy  of  patronage 
than  poisonous  pills  and  tonics. 


THE  PSYCHOLOGY   OP   DIGESTION  445 

Worry,  anxiety,  anger,  hatred  and  peevishness  con- 
tract the  blood  vessels,  inhibit  the  flow  of  digestive 
fluids  and  benumb  nerve  action.  These  destructive 
emotions  actually  sour  the  vital  fluids  as  well  as  the 
mental  disposition.  On  the  other  hand,  nothing  stimu- 
lates the  circulation  or  the  flow  of  gastric  juices,  or 
sweetens  the  secretions  like  cheerfulness,  happiness  and 
absolute  confidence  in  the  healing  power  within. 

If  by  chance  you  have  made  a  mistake  or  committed 
an  indiscretion  in  eating,  do  not  make  it  worse  by 
worrying  over  it.  Take  a  good  big  dose  of  mental- 
magic  tonic,  one  hundred  grains  of  courage  well 
shaken  in  a  few  ounces  of  cheerfulness.  Thereby  in- 
crease the  flow  of  gastric  secretions  and  say  to  your- 
self, ''Since  I  have  eaten  the  forbidden  fruit,  I  will 
not  worry  over  it ;  my  innate  powers  of  body,  mind  and 
soul  will  neutralize  the  bad  effects.  I  will  appropriate 
the  good  there  is  in  it  and  eliminate  the  evil." 

Use  forethought  and  seli-control  to  avoid  mistakes, 
but  when  you  have  made  them  do  not  make  the  matter 
worse  by  fearthought. 


CHAPTER  Xm 
MISCELLANEOUS  ARTICLES 

Over-Eating- 

The  most  wholesome  food  becomes  injurious  when 
taken  in  excessive  quantities.  Whatever  we  cannot 
properly  digest  and  assimilate  ferments  and  decays, 
filling  the  system  with  waste  matter  and  poisons. 
Many  persons  squander  their  vitality  in  eliminating 
noxious  food  ballast,  and  wonder  why  they  are  so  weak 
in  spite  of  a  good  appetite  and  rich  foods.  When  the 
organs  of  digestion  are  continually  overworked  they 
weaken  and  are  unable  to  convert  the  over-supply  of 
food  into  the  proper  constituents  for  healthy  blood 
and  lymph ;  waste  matter  accumulates,  creating  nox- 
ious gases  and  systemic  poisons.  Poisonous  miasms 
thus  contaminate  the  vital  fluids,  causing  corruption 
and  obstruction  in  organs  and  tissues,  furnishing  a 
luxurious  soil  for  all  kinds  of  parasites,  germs  and 
bacteria. 

In  other  chapters  (III  and  IV)  we  have  shown  that 
we  cannot  eat  and  drink  vital  force — that  it  is  inde- 
pendent of  food,  drink,  medicines  and  tonics.  There- 
fore, we  cannot  comprehend  why  so  many  physicians 
persist  in  stuffing  the  weak  bodies  of  consumptives  and 
other  invalids  with  enormous  quantities  of  food,  under 
the  mistaken  impression  that  the  patients  can  thus  be 
strengthened  and  improved  in  health.  Is  it  not  self- 
evident  that  the  stomach  and  bowels  of  these  poor  suf- 

446 


MISCELLANEOUS  ARTICLES  447 

ferers  are  as  feeble  and  as  incapable  of  exertion  as 
their  arras  and  legs? 

If  these  sufferers  could  properly  digest  and  assimi- 
late only  a  few  eggs  a  day  they  would  not  be  so  weak 
and  emaciated,  but  they  are  "stuffed"  with  as  many 
eggs  as  they  can  possibly  force  down  their  throats.  The* 
result  is  that  the  entire  mass  decays  and  ferments, 
spoiling  that  which  was  necessary  together  with  the 
superfluous,  and  in  that  way  doing  more  harm  than 
good  to  the  body.  Would  it  not  be  more  sensible  to 
give  no  more  than  the  digestive  organs  can  take  care 
of,  to  gradually  increase  the  amount  of  food  as  stomach 
and  intestines  become  more  active  and  alive  under  the 
natural  methods  of  treatment? 

Fasting  Imperative  in  Acute  Diseases 

In  serious  diseases  and  states  of  nervous  and  phys- 
ical prostration  the  expenditure  of  vital  force  is  at  a 
minimum,  as  is  apparent  from  the  extreme  weakness 
and  helplessness  of  the  patient,  therefore  much  less 
food  is  required  than  in  times  of  healthful  activity. 
Does  not  Nature  herself  protest  against  eating,  by  loss 
of  appetite,  nausea  and  vomiting?  Nevertheless, 
though  the  patient  himself  objects  to  the  enforced 
feeding,  and  his  whole  organism  revolts  against  it, 
doctor  and  friends  insist  that  he  "must  eat  to  keep 
up  strength."  "Sedatives"  are  given  to  paralyze  the 
stomach  into  submission  and  down  go  chicken  soup, 
eggs,  beef  tea  and  other  tempting  morsels. 

In  acute  febrile  diseases  feeding  is  not  only  useless 
but  actually  harmful,  because  in  such  conditions  the 
normal  activities  of  the  organism,  including  the  proc- 
esses of  digestion  and  assimilation,  are  at  a  standstill. 
All  efforts  are  concentrated  on  elimination;  the  stom- 


448  NATURAL   DIETETICS 

ach  and  bowels  are  also  called  upon  to  assist  in  the 
general  house  cleaning.  Instead  of  assimilating,  they, 
too,  are  eliminating  noxious  poisons,  which  produce 
nausea,  vomiting,  diarrhoeas  and  catarrhal  excretions. 
The  digestive  organs  normally  act  like  a  sponge, — they 
absorb  the  food  elements  from  the  digestive  tract  and 
transmit  thera  into  the  blood  stream.  In  febrile  dis- 
eases the  process  is  reversed, — the  sponge  is  being 
squeezed.  It  is  throwing  off  morbid  excretions,  thus 
aiding  the  "cleansing  crisis."  As  soon  as  food  is  given, 
this  beneficial  elimination  through  stomach  and  bowels 
is  liindered  and  interrupted;  as  a  consequence,  the 
temperature  rises  and  is  followed  by  an  aggravation 
of  all  symptoms. 

The  danger  lies  not  so  much  in  under-feeding  as  in 
over-feeding.  To  one  who  dies  from  lack  of  food, 
thousands  die  from  over-eating.  If  the  truth  were 
known,  we  sliould  be  surprised  at  the  small  amount 
of  food  required  to  keep  the  body  in  perfect  condition. 

Cornaro,  an  Italian  nobleman,  when  forty  years  of 
age,  was  declared  by  his  doctors  to  be  dying  from  the 
effects  of  dissipation.  Instead  of  resigning  himself  to 
this  fate,  he  determined  to  enter  upon  an  experiment 
of  his  own.  He  cut  his  food  supply  down  to  a  few 
ounces  a  day,  and,  before  long,  regained  health  and 
strength.  At  a  hundred  years  of  age  he  wrote  a  book 
in  which  he  described  his  experiences  and  the  wonder- 
ful effects  of  temperate  living. 

The  only  safe  guide  in  eating  is  "hunger, — not  appe- 
tite;" true  hunger  is  Nature's  sign  that  more  food  is 
needed,  and  that  the  organism  is  in  condition  to  take 
care  of  it. 

If  these  simple  truths  were  more  widely  understood 
and  patients  in  acute  diseases  were  fasted  instead  of 


MISCELLANEOUS    ARTICLES  449 

stuffed  the  death  rate  would  decrease  to  an  astonishing 
degree. 

To  Salt  or  Not  to  Salt 

Like  Banquo's  ghost,  this  question  will  not  down. 
Pro  or  con  it  has  been  discussed  by  every  diet  specialist 
and  food  reformer.  Vegetarians  say,  "Don't;"  meat 
eaters  say,  "Do."  Both  may  be  right.  How  can 
that  be? 

Common  inorganic  table  salt  is  chemically  composed 
of  sodium  and  chlorin.  We  call  sodium  and  all  other 
minerals  organic  when  they  enter  into  chemical  com- 
binations with  carbon  or  proteid  compounds  in  the  liv- 
ing cells  of  plants  and  animals. 

We  have  learned  in  other  chapters  of  this  volume 
that  potatoes,  fats  and  sugars  in  the  processes  of  diges- 
tion form  large  amounts  of  poisonous  acids,  alkaloids 
and  ptomaines,  which  become  a  most  fruitful  source  of 
disease  when  not  rapidly  and  thoroughly  eliminated. 

The  neutralization  and  elimination  of  these  food 
poisons  depend  largely  upon  sodium.  The  ordinary 
American  diet,  consisting  of  meats,  peas,  beans,  pota- 
toes, white  bread,  pastry,  coffee  and  sugar,  contains 
an  excessive  amount  of  the  acid-producing  food  ele- 
ments, and  only  very  small  amounts  of  the  eliminat- 
ing sodium.  Fruits  and  vegetables,  however,  are  very 
rich  in  organic  sodium  as  well  as  all  other  positive 
alkaline  mineral  elements.  Keeping  in  mind  these 
premises,  we  shall  see  how  both  vegetarian  and  meat- 
eater  may  be  right  in  their  stand  on  the  salt  question. 

The  vegetarian,  whose  daily  dietary  contains  a  lib- 
eral amount  of  uncooked  fruits  and  vegetables  and 
only  moderate  amounts  of  proteins  and  starches,  has 
no  need  and  no  desire  for  inorganic  table  salt.     His 


450  NATURAL   DIETETICS 

demands  for  sodium  are  fully  satisfied  in  a  natural 
way  by  the  organic  sodium  contained  in  the  raw 
foods. 

On  the  other  hand,  people  whose  dietary  consists 
largely  of  meats,  potatoes,  peas,  beans,  cereal  foods, 
white  flour  bread  and  pastry,  coffee,  tea  and  refined 
sugar,  all  of  which  are  lacking  in  the  acid-binding 
sodium,  must  have  table  salt  in  order  to  make  up  the 
deficiency  of  this  element  in  their  food,  therefore, 
they  have  a  strong  craving  for  the  inorganic  table 
salt. 

The  foods  above  mentioned,  as  we  have  learned,  pro- 
duce large  amounts  of  poisonous  acids  and  alkaloids, 
and  unless  these  are  promptly  neutralized  and  elimi- 
nated by  sqdium,  disease  and  death  would  be  the  in- 
evitable results.  Since  the  above  described  American 
dietary  is  deficient  in  the  organic  salts  of  fruits  and 
vegetables,  inorganic  table  salt  (sodium  chlorid)  must 
serve  as  a  poor  substitute,  but  it  is  far  better  for  the 
system  to  have  the  inorganic  substitute  than  no  sodium 
at  all. 

The  fact  that  many  people  have  lived  almost  entirely 
on  meats  or  cereal  foods  with  table  salt  as  seasoning, 
and  have  reached  a  ripe  old  age,  indicates  that  the 
organism  can  use  the  inorganic  salt  as  a  substitute  for 
the  organic. 

We  have  learned  that  many  elements,  though  con- 
genial to  the  body,  when  taken  in  the  inorganic  form 
show  in  the  iris,  but  table  salt,  even  when  habitually 
taken  in  large  quantities,  does  not  show,  indicating  that 
we  cannot  class  it  among  the  poison  foods.  It  is  con- 
genial to  the  system,  being  naturally  present  in  the 
blood,  in  organic  combinations,  in  considerable  quan- 
tities.     Like  uric   acid,  caffeine,  theine,   alcohol  and 


MISCELLANEOUS   ARTICLES  451 

nicotine,  which  also  do  not  show  in  the  iris  by  distinct 
signs,  it  becomes  injurious  to  the  system  only  when 
taken  habitually  in  large  quantities.  Possibly  table 
salt  stands  in  closer  relationship  to  the  vito-chemical 
life  element  than  other  mineral  substances  which  show 
in  the  iris. 

Table  salt,  however,  should  be  used  very  moderately, 
even  by  meat  eaters.  Its  excessive  use  easily  becomes 
a  habit.  Its  elimination  greatly  irritates  the  kidneys 
and  withdraws  from  the  blood  large  quantities  of 
serum.  This  creates  thirst,  which  necessitates  the 
drinking  of  much  water.  This  in  turn  dilutes  the 
blood  and  other  secretions  of  the  organism,  causing 
a  watery  dysaemia  of  all  the  vital  fluids. 

Our  flushing  faddists  seem  to  regard  an  excess  of 
water  in  blood  and  tissues  as  a  desirable  condition, — 
our  farmers  know  how  to  turn  it  into  money.  Salt, 
given  to  cattle  and  hogs,  creates  abnormal  thirst.  This 
causes  excessive  water  drinking  and  watery  dysaemia 
(anemia) ;  watery  blood  makes  fat.  Thus,  salt  is 
turned  into  fat. 

Inorganic  salt,  when  absorbed  in  large  quantities, 
pickles  the  tissues.  It  destroys  albuminous  compounds 
and  causes  their  excessive  secretion  in  the  urine  (al- 
buminuria). Therefore,  it  leeches  the  protoplasm  of 
the  cells,  weakening  their  resistance  and  breaking 
down  their  normal  structures. 

This  is  shown  clearly  in  scurvy,  which  is  caused  by 
excessive  use  of  salt  meats  and  lack  of  fresh  vegetables 
(organic  salts).  This  disease,  which  is  characterized 
by  decay  and  bleeding  of  the  gums,  proves  that  Nature 
limits  the  substitution  of  inorganic  salt  for  the  organic, 
and  it  strongly  indicates  that  the  organic  is  the  most 
desirable  form. 


452  •  NATUR.Ui   DIETETICS 

As  soon  as  scurvy  patients  are  put  on  a  fruit  and 
vegetable  diet,  the  destruction  of  tissues,  the  bleeding 
resulting  from  it  and  other  symptoms  promptly  abate. 
Another  indication  that  inorganic  sodiura-chlorid  is 
not  congenial  to  the  system  is  indicated  by  the  fact 
that  considerable  amounts  of  the  organic  salt  contained 
in  fruits  and  vegetables  or  in  their  extracts  do  not 
create  thirst,  while  comparatively  small  amounts  of 
the  inorganic  table  salt  cause  irritation  of  the  kidneys, 
great  thirst,  overwork,  albuminuria,  and  weakening  of 
the  cell  structure.  These  influences  undoubtedly  favor 
the  development  of  kidney  diseases. 

Now  that  we  have  considered  the  evidence  for  and 
against  the  use  of  salt,  we  shall  endeavor  to  answer 
the  question:  Is  it  advisable  for  vegetarians  to  use 
salt? 

When  the  dietary  contains  liberal  amounts  of  un- 
cooked fruits  and  vegetables,  very  little  or  no  salt  will 
be  needed.  The  addition  of  salt  is  permissible  to  vege- 
tarian foods  which  contain  large  amounts  of  proteids, 
fats  and  starches,  such  as  eggs,  butter,  peas,  beans, 
lentils,  potatoes,  cereals,  rice,  etc. 

Vegetables  of  the  fifth  group  when  properly  steamed 
in  their  own  juices  so  that  none  of  their  mineral  con- 
stituents are  wasted,  do  not  need  additional  condi- 
ments, their  own  salts  are  the  best  flavoring. 

In  conclusion  we  must  remember  that  fruits  and 
vegetables  often  do  not  contain  the  normal  amounts 
of  organic  salts,  because  for  ages  the  soil  on  which  they 
grow  has  been  robbed  of  its  mineral  constituents. 

It  is  this  deficiency  in  mineral  elements  which  lowers 
the  resistance  of  vegetables,  grains  and  fruits,  impairs 
their  development,  causes  decay  and  facilitates  the 
work   of  destructive  worms,  insects  and  germs,  just 


MISCELLANEOUS  ARTICLES  453 

as  lowered  resistance  favors  the  development  of  germs 
and  bacteria  in  human  bodies. 

Nitrogenous  fertilizers  have  been  provided  plenti- 
fully, but  the  necessity  of  positive  mineral  fertilizers 
was  never  thought  of  until  Julius  Hensel,  the  "Nature 
Cure"  food  chemist,  called  attention  to  the  fact. 

The  soil  and  its  products,  therefore,  as  well  as  human 
beings,  suffer  from  mineral  starvation.  African  ex- 
.plorers  state  that  in  certain  parts  of  Africa  the  soil 
and  its  products  are  lacking  in  sodium-chlorid,  and 
that  in  these  sections  animals  and  human  beings  suffer 
from  salt  starvation,  which  expresses  itself  in  many 
curious  ways. 

The  following  clipping  from  a  daily  paper  is  of 
interest  in  this  connection: 

Region  of  Salt  Famine 

"All  living  creatures  in  this  region  are  crazy  for 
salt,  just  like  oxen  on  a  'sour'  veldt.  Salt  is  far  the 
best  coinage  you  can  take  among  the  Chibokwe.  I 
do  not  mean  our  white  table  salt.  They  reject  that 
with  scorn,  thinking  it  is  sugar  or  something  equally 
useless,  but  for  the  coarse  and  dirty  'bay  salt'  they 
will  sell  almost  anything,  and  a  pinch  of  it  is  a  greater 
treat  to  a  child  than  a  whole  bride  cake  would  be  in 
England. 

' '  1  have  tested  it  especially  with  the  bees  that  swarm 
in  these  forests  and  produce  most  of  the  beeswax  that 
goes  to  Europe.  I  first  noticed  their  love  of  salt  when 
I  salted  some  water  one  afternoon  in  the  vain  hope  of 
curing  the  poisoned  sores  on  my  feet.  In  half  an 
hour  the  swarms  of  bees  had  driven  me  from  my  tent. 
I  was  stung  ten  times  and  had  to  wait  about  in  the 


454  NATURAL   DIETETICS 

forest  till  the  sun  set,  when  the  bees  vanished  as  if  by 
signal. 

'  *  Another  afternoon  I  tested  them  by  putting  a  heap 
of  sugar,  a  paper  smeared  with  condensed  milk  and  a 
bag  of  salt  tightly  wrapped  up  in  tar-paper  side  by 
side  on  the  ground.  I  gave  them  twenty  minutes,  and 
then  I  found  nothing  on  the  sugar,  five  flies  on  the 
milk,  and  the  tar-paper  so  densely  covered  with  bees 
that  they  overlapped  each  other  as  when  they  swarm. 
For  want  of  anything  better,  they  will  fight  over  a 
sweaty  shirt  in  the  same  way,  and  once,  by  the  banks 
of  a  stream,  they  sent  all  my  carriers  howling  along 
the  path  by  creeping  up  under  their  loin-cloths.  The 
butterflies  seek  salt  also.  If  you  spread  out  a  damp 
rag  anywhere  in  tropical  Africa,  you  will  soon  have 
brilliant  butterflies  on  it.  But  if  you  add  a  little  salt 
in  the  Hungary  Coimtry  the  rug  will  be  a  blaze  of 
colors,  unless  the  bees  come  and  drive  the  butterflies 
off. 

Bum  Grass  for  Substitute 

"As  I  said,  the  natives  feel  the  longing,  too.  Among 
the  Chibokwe  the  women  burn  a  marsh  grass  into  a 
potash  powder  as  a  substitute;  and  if  a  native  squats 
down  in  front  of  you,  puts  out  a  long  pink  tongue  and 
strokes  it  appealingly  with  his  finger,  you  may  know 
it  is  salt  he  wants." 

The  addition  of  small  quantities  of  table  salt  to  a 
vegetarian  diet  is,  therefore  not  to  be  condemned, 
but  its  use  should  be  confined  to  butter,  eggs  and 
such  cooked  foods  as  we  have  mentioned. 

Do  not  use  it  at  the  table,  except  on  eggs.  It  is 
barbaric  to  kill  with  salt  and  pepper  the  delicate  flavors 
of  fruits  and  vegetables.      But,  says  our  friend,  the 


MISCELLANEOUS  ARTICLES  455 

meat-eater,  "I  have  to  add  condiments  and  spices,  or 
I  cannot  taste  anything."  To  this  we  answer,  "N) 
wonder,  when  the  taste  buds  in  your  tongue  are  par- 
alyzed by  salt,  pepper,  mustard,  strong  condiments, 
nicotine  and  alcohol.  Return  to  a  natural  diet  and 
your  nerves  of  taste  will  soon  regain  their  normal  sen- 
sitiveness. Then  you  will  enjoy  the  beautiful  flavors 
of  fruits  and  vegetables  and  things  will  taste  as  good 
as  'when  mother  made  them.'  " 

In  summing  up  and  comparing  our  evidence,  we  come 
to  the  conclusion  that  here,  as  elsewhere,  it  is  not  well 
to  run  into  extremes.  As  usual  the  middle,  common- 
sense  way  is  the  safest  way. 

Fermented  Bread 

Vegetarians,  almost  unanimously,  condemn  the  use 
of  fermented  bread.  Are  the  lightened  loaves  as  inju- 
rious as  they  claim? 

The  enemies  of  fermented  bread  usually  advance  the 
following  arguments : 

1st.  Fermented  bread  contains  yeast  germs,  which 
enter  the  digestive  organs  and  cause  injurious  fer- 
mentation. 

2nd.  Fermented  bread  contains  alcohol,  which  is  in- 
jurious to  health  and  life. 

3rd.  The  "raising"  of  the  bread  is  due  to  gases 
"arising  from  the  decaying  bodies  of  dead  yeast 
germs. ' ' 

4th.  The  transformation  of  the  sugar  in  the  fer- 
menting dough  entails  a  considerable  loss  of  elements 
of  nutrition. 

We  shall  take  up  these  objections  one  by  one  and 
examine  them  as  to  their  validity. 


456  NATURAL   DIETETICS 

First  objection:  "Fermented  bread  contains  yeast 
germs,  which  enter  the  digestive  organs  and  cause 
injurious  fermentation." 

Pasteur  discovered  that  all  yeast  germs  die  at  a  tem- 
perature of  about  150°  F.  Every  housewife  takes  ad- 
vantage of  this  fact  when  she  heats  milk  and  fruit 
preserves  to  the  Pasteurizing  or  germ-killing  tempera- 
ture. How,  then,  can  the  yeast  germ  survive  the  great 
heat  of  the  bake  oven,  which  ranges  from  500°  to 
1,000°  F.  ?  But  suppose  a  few  yeast  cells  survive  the 
heat  of  the  fiery  oven  and  enter  the  human  body — 
what  of  it?  Physiology  teaches  us  that  the  various 
processes  of  digestion  are  completed  in  the  intestinal 
canal  by  germ  fermentation. 

In  order  to  understand  what  this  means  we  must 
consider  for  a  moment  what  fermentation  is.  Web- 
ster's Imperial  Dictionary  defines  it  as  follows:  "The 
conversion  of  an  organic  substance  into  new  com- 
pounds in  presence  of  a  ferment,  the  nature  of  which 
determines  the  kind  of  fermentation  produced.  Fer- 
mentation may  be  checked  or  altogether  prevented  by 
anything  which  prevents  the  growth  of  the  fungi,  as 
by  keeping  away  from  the  liquid  the  spores  of  germs, 
by  the  liquid  being  either  too  hot  or  too  cold  for  their 
development,  by  the  liquid  containing  too  much  sugar, 
or  by  the  presence  of  a  substance  (called  an  anti- 
septic) which  acts  as  a  poison  on  the  fungi." 

Ferments  are  classified  into  encymes  and  fungi.  The 
former  are  chemical  compounds,  the  latter  are  live 
vegetable  spores  or  germs. 

The  most  important  chemical  encymes  in  the  body 
are  the  ptyaline  of  the  saliva,  which  transforms 
starches  into  dextrines  and  sugars,  the  pepsin  in  the 
stomach  which  transforms  proteids  into  peptones,  and 


MISCELLANEOUS  ARTICLES  457 

the  pancreatic  ferments  which  act  upon  all  food  classes. 
Whatever  in  the  processes  of  digestion  is  left  undone 
by  these  and  other  chemical  encymes  is  completed 
in  the  intestinal  canal  by  fungoid  and  bacterial  fer- 
mentations. The  intestinal  tract  is  alive  with  fungi 
of  the  yeast  type  and  with  microbes  and  bacilli  of  all 
sorts,  which  carry  on  the  work  of  fermentation  and 
oxydation  until  all  food  materials  are  split  up  into 
the  simplest  possible  elements  and  compounds. 

From  this  it  will  be  seen  that  all  the  processes  of 
digestion  from  beginning  to  end  are  in  a  way  processes 
of  fermentation.*  "What  difference,  then,  can  it  make 
if  a  few  additional  yeast  germs  enter  the  body  with 
the  bread? 

Second  objection:  "Bread  fermentation  creates  al- 
cohol, which  in  injurious  to  health  and  life." 

So  does  the  healthy  human  body  manufacture  al- 
cohol. It  is  produced  by  the  action  of  yeast  germs  on 
sugar  in  the  intestinal  tract.  The  oxydation  of  food 
materials  and  of  waste  matter  is  in  many  other 
instances  accompanied  by  the  formation  of  alcohol. 
This  product  is,  therefore,  in  small  quantities,  con- 
genial to  the  system  and  plays  a  useful  part  in  the  vital 
activities.  Like  uric  acid  and  other  systemic  waste 
matter  and  poisons  it  becomes  dangerous  to  health  and 
life  only  when  present  in  excessive  quantities. 

Alcohol  is  easily  combustible  and  acts  as  fuel  mate- 


*  Dr.  Th.  Powell,  whose  theories  we  have  discussed  In  other  places, 
also  claims  that  digestion  is  not  fermentation,  but  simple  disintegration. 
If  tills  Is  so,  how  does  he  explain  the  change  of  starch  into  sugar  under 
the  influence  of  the  ferments,  ptyalln  and  amylopsin,  of  fats  Into 
glycerine  and  fatty  acids  in  the  presence  of  steapsin,  etc.,  etc.?  These 
changes  certainly  involve  "the  conversion  of  organic  substances  into 
new  compounds  in  the  presence  of  digestive  ferments  (enzymes)." 
We  cannot  see  why  "disintegration"  is  an  improvement  on  the  term 
"fermentation."     We  understand  the  latter  Involves  the  former. 


458  NATURAL   DIETETICS 

rial  to  the  system.  When  present  in  large  quantities, 
however,  it  paralyzes  the  inhibitory  nervous  apparatus 
and  burns  up  nerve  fats  too  rapidly,  thereby  causing 
temporary  over-stimulation  and  resultant  weakness  and 
exhaustion. 

Alcohol  is  created  in  the  fermenting  dough  in 
minute  quantities  only,  and  most  of  it  evaporates  in 
the  great  heat  of  the  oven.  Large  London  bakeries 
endeavored  to  collect  and  condense  the  alcohol  from 
the  ovens,  but  the  expense  attached  to  this  process 
proved  greater  than  the  returns  and  the  experiment 
was  therefore  abandoned. 

Chemical  tests  of  finished  bread  show  alcohol  in 
traces  only.  There  is  not  enough  of  it  to  injure  the 
human  organism  in  any  way  or  manner. 

Third  objection:  "The  'raising'  of  the  bread  is 
due  to  the  gas  arising  from  the  decaying  bodies  of 
dead  yeast  germs." 

In  the  first  place,  dead  yeast  germs  have  never  been 
known  to  create  carbonic  acid  gas  in  considerable 
quantities.  They  have  to  be  alive  in  order  to  do  so. 
Yeast  fungi,  while  living  on  sugar,  digest  or  split  up 
the  sugar  into  alcohol  and  carbonic  acid  gas.  This 
gas  while  escaping  permeates  the  dough  with  air  pas- 
sages and  bubbles  and  in  that  way  raises  and  lightens 
it.  This  loosening  of  the  dough  into  a  sponge-like 
mass  favors  the  escape  of  moisture  and  the  penetra- 
tion of  heat.  The  resulting  bread  is  therefore  baked 
more  thoroughly  and  keeps  much  better,  does  not  sour 
so  quickly,  and  is  more  easily  digested  than  much  of 
the  soggy,  lumpy,  ''unfermented  health  bread." 

This  carbonic  acid  gas  which  lightens  the  bread  can- 
not be  very  injurious  as  it  is  the  same  gas  that  sparkles 
and  bubbles  in  soda  water  and  in  all  other  effervescent 


MISCELLANEOUS  ARTICLES  459 

drinks.  When  taken  as  a  free  gas  into  the  stomach 
in  food  or  drink,  it  rapidly  evaporates,  and  while 
escaping  creates  that  cooling,  prickling  and  refreshing 
sensation  peculiar  to  carbonated  beverages. 

Fourth  objection:  ''The  transformation  of  sugar  in 
the  fermenting  dough  entails  a  considerable  loss  in 
elements  of  nutrition." 

This  loss  of  sugar  incidental  to  bread  fermentation 
is  so  small  that  it  hardly  merits  consideration.  This 
small  loss  is  more  than  balanced  by  increased  digesti- 
bility and  palatableness  and  by  better  keeping  qual- 
ities. 

What  has  been  said  will  make  it  apparent  that  the 
fermentation  of  the  bread  is  in  a  way  a  process  of 
predigestion.  In  fact,  all  so-called  ''predigested" 
health  foods  have  been  subjected  to  some  process  of 
fermentation,  for  in  this  way  only  is  it  possible  to 
"predigest"  food  materials. 

This,  however,  is  not  altogether  an  advantage.  Pre- 
digestion dissipates  food  energy  outside  of  the  body 
which  should  be  liberated  and  utilized  inside  of  the 

Mono-Diet 

The  latest  development  in  dietetic  treatment  is  the 
mono-diet.  Strictly  speaking,  this  regime  consists  in 
taking  but  one  article  of  food  at  a  meal,  a  succession 
of  meals,  or  continuously  for  a  considerable  period 
of  time. 

The  mono-diet,  like  the  grape  cure,  milk  cure,  raw 
food  diet,  Salisbury  raw  meat  diet,  fasting,  Fletcher- 
izing,  and  other  forms  of  radical  and  one-sided  die- 
tetic treatment,  when  applied  temporarily,  may  have 
very  beneficial  effects  on  certain  diseased  conditions, 
and  for  the  attainment  of  special  results.     But  it  is 


460  NATURAL   DIETETICS 

not  advisable  to  prescribe  or  to  follow  these  extreme 
regimes  indiscriminately,  in  all  kinds  of  cases,  and  for 
indefinite  periods  of  time.  The  trouble  is  that  enthusi- 
asts look  upon  such  methods  as  cure-alls,  applying 
them  to  all  kinds  of  cases  and  conditions,  and  thereby 
often  inflicting  lasting  injuries  instead  of  benefiting 
those  who  entrust  themselves  to  their  care.  Because 
these  extreme  practices  are  beneficial  in  some  cases 
their  advocates  jump  to  the  conclusion  that  they  will 
prove  efficacious  under  all  circumstances. 

One  of  the  principal  objections  to  the  mono-diet  is 
that  not  one  article  of  food,  with  the  exception  of 
milk  and  red  blood,  contains  in  right  proportions  all 
the  elements  required  by  the  body.  All  the  foods  of 
the  first  four  groups  as  shown  in  our  tables  of  food 
analysis  (pp.  430  and  431)  contain  too  much  of  the 
negative,  acid  forming  elements  and  not  enough  of 
the  positive  mineral  salts,  while  the  foods  of  the  fifth 
group  contain  enough  of  the  positive  mineral  elements 
but  not  enough  of  the  heating  and  building  materials. 
Any  extreme,  one-sided  diet,  therefore,  must  in  the 
long  run  necessarily  lead  to  unbalanced  and  abnormal 
conditions  in  the  system. 

Furthermore,  mono-diet  means  monotony,  and  mo- 
notony in  eating,  as  in  many  other  things,  is  not 
conducive  to  health,  happiness  and  longevity.  Natu- 
rally, we  crave  variety  in  our  foods  as  well  as  in  our 
surroundings  and  occupations.  Mono-tony — sameness 
of  tone — is  not  harmony,  therefore  not  pleasing,  and 
if  long  continued  it  becomes  annoying  and  destructive. 
Desire  for  food  and  the  keen  enjoyment  of  it  depend 
upon  at  least  moderate  variety.  Keen  appetite  and 
hunger  insure  copious  secretion  of  the  digestive  juices 
and  ferments.     This  has  been  proved  by  the  experi- 


MISCELLANEOUS  ARTICLES  461 

ments  of  viviseetionists.  Through  tubes  inserted  into 
the  stomachs  of  dogs,  they  collected  digestive  juices. 
And  it  was  found  that  these  began  to  flow  more  freely 
when  the  animals  were  shown  some  appetizing  morsels 
of  food.  Food  which  they  did  not  like,  or  were  in- 
different to,  failed  to  stimulate  the  secretions  in  the 
same  degree.  When  the  animals  were  excited  to  fear 
or  anger  the  secretions  were  greatly  diminished,  or 
ceased  to  flow  entirely. 

We  often  hear  people  say  they  cannot  eat  a  certain 
food  because  at  one  time  they  "got  too  much  of  it." 
My  secretary  tells  me  as  we  are  working  on  this  manu- 
script, that  once,  it  being  known  by  a  certain  gracious 
country  hostess  of  hers,  that  she  was  especially  fond 
of  whipped  cream,  she  was  fed  on  whipped-cream  cake, 
whipped-cream  pie,  and  whipped  cream  in  every  other 
conceivable  form,  morning,  noon  and  night,  until  for 
a  long  time  afterward  she  could  scarcely  bear  the  sight 
of  it.  Monotony  had  created  a  revulsion  of  her  appe- 
tite toward  a  perfectly  wholesome  and  inviting  food. 
Similar  experiences  are  related  to  me  frequently  by 
patients,  confirming  my  opinion  that  mono-diet  is  not 
a  natural  practice.  The  originators  and  enthusiastic 
advocates  of  such  systems  may  adhere  to  them  indefi- 
nitely with  apparent  success,  but  the  majority  of  peo- 
ple will  soon  tire  of  living  on  a  straight  **one  food 
at  a  time"  diet. 

We  repeat  that  in  many  cases  where  we  had  to 
counteract  a  certain  form  of  systemic  poisoning  we 
have  found  the  mono-diet  very  beneficial,  as,  for  in- 
stance, the  grape  cure  or  the  milk  cure  in  uric  acid 
diseases.  In  such  cases  the  mono-diet  constitutes  a 
mild  form  of  protein  starvation,  which  is  desirable 
under  the  circumstances. 


462  NATURAL   DIETETICS 

But  when  patients  are  already  physically  and  men- 
tally weak  and  negative,  have  lost  ambition  and  energy, 
together  with  appetite,  all  such  extremes  as  fasting, 
raw  food  diet  and  mono-diet  may  become  positively 
harmful  and  lead  to  nervous  prostration,  abnormal 
psyehism  and  insanity. 

No  radical  or  extreme  form  of  diet  or  other  method 
of  treatment  should  ever  be  undertaken  except  under 
the  advice  and  guidance  of  a  competent  physician,  who 
is  capable  of  taking  into  consideration  the  various 
aspects  and  requirements  of  the  case. 

Mastication 

Thorough  mastication  of  food  is  an  absolute  neces- 
sity to  insure  good  digestion,  but,  like  every  other 
good  thing,  can  be  overdone.  In  his  "A-B-C  of  Nutri- 
tion," Horace  Fletcher  advocates  mastication  of  food 
until  it  is  reduced  to  a  fluid  condition.  While  I 
believe  that  "Fletcherizing"  has  benefited  many  people 
suffering  from  overeating  and  consequent  food  poison- 
ing, I  know  also  that  in  many  instances  it  has  become 
positively  harmful.  Food  in  the  liquid  state  does  not 
offer  enough  resistance  to  the  muscles  of  the  intestinal 
tract. 

Stomach  and  intestines  need  some  bulky,  solid  food 
as  a  stimulus  to  peristalsis,  the  propelling  movement 
peculiar  to  the  digestive  organs.  If  all  food  be  con- 
verted into  a  liquid  before  it  enters  the  stomach  the 
peristaltic  movements  of  the  digestive  tract  become 
ineffective  through  disuse,  the  bowels  become  "lazy" 
and  inactive  as  they  do  under  a  milk  diet. 

Furthermore,  a  good  many  people,  myself  amongf 
them,  simply  cannot  afford  the  time  to  *'Fletcherize." 


MISCELLANEOUS  ARTICLES  463 

To  do  this  would  require  an  hour  or  more  each  meal. 
Instead  of  spending  this  time  at  the  table  trying  to 
reduce  the  cellulose  and  wood-fiber  of  fruits  and  vege- 
tables to  a  liquid,  thereby  destroying  their  stimulating 
effect  upon  the  stomach  and  intestines,  it  would  be 
much  more  beneficial  to  take  fifteen  to  thirty  minutes 
after  each  meal  for  relaxation,  rest  and  vital  regen- 
eration. This  is  especially  to  be  recommended  to 
people  with  very  weak  digestions.  When  they  are 
thoroughly  relaxed  and  at  rest  they  should,  by  an  effort 
of  will,  concentrate  the  blood  and  nerve  currents  on 
the  work  of  the  digestive  organs. 

Frequency  of  Meals 

The  frequency  of  meals  cannot  be  determined  by 
hard-and-fast  rules.  Different  factors  must  be  taken 
into  account:  occupation,  physical  condition,  the  cir- 
cumstances in  the  home,  etc.  As  a  rule  the  two-meal 
plan  is  the  best.  The  ideal  way  is  to  have  breakfast 
between  nine  and  ten  o'clock  in  the  morning  and  dinner 
between  five  and  six  in  the  afternoon.  This  allows 
sufficient  time  for  thorough  digestion  and  assimilation. 

In  our  experience,  the  no-breakfast  plan  does  not 
agree  with  most  people.  Putting  off  the  first  meal 
until  noon  is  likely  to  create  excessive  hunger  and  a 
tendency  to  overeating.  It  also  brings  the  noon-day 
meal  and  the  evening  meal  too  close  together. 

If  circumstances  are  such  that  breakfast  has  to  be 
taken  early  in  the  day  and  dinner  late  in  the  evening, 
it  may  be  found  advisable  to  eat  a  light  lunch  at  noon 
consisting,  say,  of  fruit  and  a  few  nuts,  or  a  vegetable 
salad,  or  some  whole-grain  bread  and  a  glass  of  milk. 

Some  of  our  friends  and  patients  get  along  best  on 


464  NATURAL  DIETETICS 

one  meal  a  day.  This  is  especially  advisable  where 
there  is  a  tendency  to  overeating  and  to  excessive  fat 
and  flesh  formation. 

In  certain  isolated  cases  of  an  exceptionally  weak 
and  negative  condition  we  have  found  it  expedient  to 
give  small  quantities  of  food  three  or  four  times  a 
day. 

Drinking 

We  are  not  in  favor  of  excessive  drinking.  The 
"flushing-of-the-system"  fad  is  a  mistake.  The  purifi- 
cation of  the  body  is  not  a  mechanical  process  like 
the  flushing  of  a  sewer  Avith  water.  It  is  a  chemical 
process  which  depends  upon  the  normal  composition  and 
concentration  of  the  different  secretions  in  the  system. 
These  secretions,  the  most  important  one  of  which  is 
the  blood,  cannot  be  made  more  effective  by  diluting 
them  with  large  amounts  of  water. 

Most  of  the  people  suffering  from  stubborn  chronic 
constipation  that  come  to  us  for  treatment  have  been 
' '  flushing ' '  for  years,  through  mouth  and  rectum,  using 
quarts  and  even  gallons  of  water  daily,  with  the  result 
that  they  were  getting  more  constipated  all  the  time. 
On  our  comparatively  dry-food  diet  the  bowels,  in  most 
cases,  begin  to  act  normally  within  a  short  time. 

Distilled  Water 

Another  popular  fallacy  is  the  idea  that  on  account 
of  its  absolute  purity  distilled  water  is  wholesome. 
As  a  matter  of  fact,  its  very  purity  makes  it  injurious 
to  the  system. 

All  water  has  a  natural  tendency  to  saturate  itself, 
up  to  a  certain  point,  with  mineral  matter.  Good  drink- 
ing water  always  contains  a  certain  amount  of  mineral 


MISCELLANEOUS  ARTICLES  465 

matter.  When  this  is  removed  through  distillation, 
the  water  will  leech  from  the  system  the  organic  min- 
eral salts  which  play  such  an  important  part  in  the 
vital  processes  of  our  bodies,  and  which  we  find  it  is  so 
difficult  to  supply  in  sufficient  amounts.  Good  drink- 
ing water  is  agreeable  to  the  taste,  whereas  the 
absence  of  mineral  salts  accounts  for  the  flat  taste  of 
distilled  water. 

On  the  other  hand,  very  large  quantities  of  lime,  iron, 
sulphur,  or  other  inorganic,  minerals  in  water  that  is 
used  constantly  for  drinking  or  bathing,  are  injurious 
to  the  system.  If  such  minerals  are  present  in  excess, 
the  water  should  be  boiled  and  allowed  to  settle  before 
it,  is  used. 

If  the  water  contains  vegetable  or  animal  organic 
matter  it  should  be  filtered. 

It  is  the  customary  highly-spiced  meat  and  egg  diet 
which  creates  excessive  or  abnormal  thirst.  A  rational 
non-irritating  and  non-stimulating  vegetarian  diet 
furnishes  the  organism  with  fluids  of  the  best  possi- 
ble kind  in  the  form  of  fruit  and  vegetable  juices, 
prepared  in  Nature's  own  laboratory,  rich  in  medicinal 
qualities  and  free  from  all  objectionable  constituents. 

Under  ordinary  conditions,  drink  from  four  to  eight 
glasses  of  pure  water  at  ordinary  temperature  in  the 
course  of  the  day,  according  to  your  own  individual 
inclination:  in  the  morning  before  breakfast,  at  night 
before  going  to  bed,  and  at  intervals  during  the  day. 

Drinking  at  Meals 

The  less  you  drink  with  your  meals  the  better.  The 
dryness  of  the  food  furnishes  the  necessary  stimulus  to 
the  secretion  of  saliva  and  of  gastric  and  intestinal 
juices. 


466  NATURAL  DIETETICS 

An  abundance  of  liquid  in  the  digestive  tract  inter- 
feres with  the  action  of  the  secreting  glands.  More- 
over, it  dilutes  the  secretions  and  thereby  weakens 
their  digestive  qualities.  The  juices  of  the  stomach 
and  the  intestines  cannot  be  made  more  effective  by 
adding  to  them  large  amounts  of  water  at  meal  time. 

Coffee  and  tea  or  alcoholic  drinks  should  be  espe- 
cially avoided  at  meals.  The  former  retard  digestion ; 
the  latter  overstimulate  temporarily  the  secretion  o£ 
gastric  and  intestinal  juices,  and  this  unnatural  stimu- 
lation is  followed  by  corresponding  weakness  and  in- 
activity of  the  secreting  glands  in  the  digestive  tract. 
Liquor  taken  before  and  during  meals,  therefore,  en- 
courages overeating,  and  when  the  reaction  sets  in,  the 
secretions  as  well  as  the  vitality  are  lacking  in  strength 
to  digest  properly  the  excess  of  food  taken  under  the 
influence  of  unnatural  stimulation. 

A  glass  of  water  taken  from  one-half  to  one  hour 
before  meals  will,  in  most  cases,  do  away  with  the 
desire  to  drink  at  meal-time.  However,  if  there  be 
actual  thirst  it  must  be  satisfied.  If  you  prefer  a  warm 
drink  you  may  take  cereal  coffee,  or  warm  milk,  or 
(sparingly)  cocoa.  Skimmed  milk,  buttermilk  and 
juices  diluted  with  water  are  good  cold  drinks. 

Mixing  Starches  With  Acid  Fruits  and  Vegetables 

Many  dietists  lay  great  stress  on  the  fact  that  acid 
fruit  juices  retard  or  prevent  the  digestion  of  starchy 
foods  in  the  stomach.  Therefore,  they  advise  that  these 
foods  should  never  be  taken  together  at  the  same  meal. 
"We  find  that  this  rule,  also,  does  not  hold  good  in  aU 
cases. 

It  is  true,  a  great  many  people  cannot  eat  starchy 
foods  and  acids  together  at  the  same  meal,  without 


MISCELLANEOUS   ARTICLES  467 

experiencing  serious  digestive  disturbances  and  aggra- 
vation of  chronic  symptoms.  This  is  especially  true 
of  those  who  suffer  with  hyper-acidity  of  the  stomach 
and  catarrhal  ailments.  The  latter  surely  are  often 
caused  by  "starch  poisoning,"  due  to  putrefying 
starchy  materials  in  the  digestive  tract.  On  the  other 
hand,  many  of  our  people  do  not  seem  to  experience 
any  bad  effects  from  the  mixing  of  starches  with  fruit 
and  vegetable  acids.  This  is  especially  true  of  those 
who  incline  to  hypo-acidity,  and  who  take  good  care  to 
thoroughly  masticate  and  insalivate  the  starchy  foods 
before  they  swallow  them. 

While  with  some  people  fruit  and  vegetable  acids 
seem  to  increase  the  acidity  of  the  stomach,  with  a 
great  many  others  they  antidote  acidity.  I,  myself, 
belong  to  the  latter  class.  For  years  I  suffered  severely 
from  hyper-acidity,  and  I  always  found  acid  fruit  the 
best  cure.  Often  I  had  to  arise  in  the  middle  of  the 
night,  suffering  intensely  from  acidity  of  the  stomach. 
A  few  oranges  would  always  give  relief. 

The  alkaline  elements  of  juicy  fruits  neutralize  the 
hyper-acidity  of  the  stomach  and  the  blood.  However, 
in  all  cases  where  the  mixing  of  these  foods  causes  the 
least  trouble  it  certainly  should  be  avoided.  Such 
people  should  take  with  their  breakfast  cereals,  sweet, 
alkaline  fruits  only,  such  as  dates,  figs,  raisins,  stcAved 
prunes,  sweet  grapes  and  melons  in  season.  They 
should  take  the  acid  fruits  by  themselves,  for  the  noon- 
day lunch,  or  if  they  have  the  heavy  meal  of  the  day 
at  noon,  they  should  have  nothing  but  acid  fruits  or 
vegetables  for  breakfast,  or  between  breakfast  and 
the  noon-day  dinner. 

The  acid  fruits  and  vegetables  may  be  taken  together 
■with   dairy  products,  fats  or  protein  foods,   such   as 


468  NATURE    CURE    COOK   BOOK 

milk,  buttermilk,  cream,  cheese,  honey,  milk,  eggs, 
meat  and  nuts. 

The  acid  foods  should  be  avoided,  also,  at  the  heavy 
meal  of  the  day,  consisting  of  starches,  fats,  proteins 
and  alkaline  vegetables.  Some  acid  finiit  may  be  taken 
before  retiring. 

It  is  good  practice  for  everybody  to  have  one  meal 
of  the  day  consist  entirely  of  juicy  fruits  and  vegeta- 
bles, so  as  to  give  full  sway  to  their  purifying  effects 
upon  the  system,  undisturbed  by  other  kinds  of  food. 

Theoretically,  the  mono-diet  is  correct.  I  believe  it 
would  be  best  to  take  each  of  the  five  classes  of  foods 
by  itself,  so  as  to  avoid  interference  from  other  foods 
in  the  digestive  processes.  But  this  would  be  difficult 
to  carry  out  in  actual  practice,  for  the  reasons  we 
have  discussed  in  other  places. 

It  is  impossible  to  make  hard  and  fast  general  rules, 
as  long  as  the  human  family  is  afflicted  with  so  many 
varying  digestive  troubles.  If  all  were  normal,  the 
normal  diet  outlined  in  "Natural  Dietetics"  would  do 
for  all,  with  slight  variations.  But  during  the  period 
of  reconstruction  and  recovery  from  chronic  digestive 
ailments,  the  diet  will  have  to  be  adapted  to  the  indi- 
vidual requirements. 

Corroborative  Evidence  of  the  Importance  of  the  Posi- 
tive Mineral  Elements  in  the  Vital  Economy 

The  importance  of  positive,  alkaline  mineral  ele- 
ments in  the  vital  economy  is  indicated  by  the  remark- 
able tonic  effects  of  saline  solutions  on  living  animal 
and  human  tissues. 

Salts  are  compounds  in  which  the  hydrogen  has  been 
replaced  by  positive  alkaline  mineral  elements.    These 


MISCELLANEOUS  ARTICLES  469 

positive  mineral  elements  are  therefore  present  in  all 
salts. 

It  is  now  a  well  known  fact  that  salt  solutions  in- 
jected into  the  rectum  have  a  decided  tonic  effect,  in 
grave  depression  or  suspended  animation  resulting 
from  shock,  great  loss  of  blood,  surgical  operations,  or 
other  profound  influences  on  the  nervous  system.  Sa- 
line solutions  greatly  stimulate  the  growth  and  activity 
of  animal  cells,  even  when  detached  from  the  parent 
organism.  This  is  true,  not  only  of  single  cells,  but 
also  of  entire  organs,  as  has  been  determined  by  actual 
experiments. 

For  instance,  the  hearts  of  frogs,  rabbits,  and  other 
laboratory  animals  will  continue  to  beat  when  sub- 
merged in  a  saline  solution,  for  a  considerable  length 
of  time  after  they  have  been  removed  from  the 
organism  to  which  they  belong.  This  seems  to  indicate 
a  close  relationship  between  the  positive  mineral  ele- 
ments contained  in  the  salts  and  the  activities  of  the 
life  elements  in  animal  and  human  bodies.  These  tonic 
effects  of  the  salts  of  positive  mineral  elements  explain 
why  the  latter  have  a  positive  effect  upon  the  system, 
while  the  foods  composed  entirely  of  negative  acid 
forming  elements,  produce  negative  effects. 


NATURE  CURE  BY  MAIL 


When  people  are  normal,  a  normal  diet  as  outlined 
in  "Natural  Dietetics"  is  fully  sufficient  to  keep  them 
in  perfect  condition,  but  while  suffering  from  chronic 
ailments  of  the  digestive  organs,  and  while  passing 
through  healing  crises  brought  about  by  natural  living 
and  treatment,  the  diet  has  to  be  adapted  to  changing 
conditions    and   requirements. 

THIS  WE  DO  THROUGH  OUR  COR- 
RESPONDENCE  COURSE   DEPARTMENT 

This  branch  of  our  work  is  under  the  direction  of 
Dr.  H.  Lindlahr.  All  letters  of  advice  on  diet  as  well 
as  other  natural  methods  of  living  and  of  treatment 
are  dictated  by  him  personally. 

Send  for  free  health  culture  literature  and  descrip- 
tion  of 

CORRESPONDENCE  COURSE  TREATMENT 


The  Lindlahr  Nature  Cure 
Institutes,  Inc. 

525-529  S.  Ashland  Blvd.,  Chicago,  111. 


THE  LINDLAHR  COLLEGE 

of 

NATURE  CURE  AND  OSTEOPATHY 

We  give  a  three  years'  course  in  Nature 
Cure  and  Osteopathy  on  the  exchange  plan; 
that  is,  in  return  for  the  services  of  our  stu- 
dents and  nurses  and  operators  we  give  them 
room,  board,  tuition  and  a  graduated  wage 
based  on  a  percentage  system.  During  the 
third  year  of  this  course,  our  students  receive 
Special  Instruction  for  the  Illinois  State  Board 
Examination  for  "Drugless  Practitioner." 

NURSES'  TRAINING  COURSE 

Special  instruction  in  Gynecology,  Obstet- 
rics, Minor  Surgery  and  Bed-side  Nursing  is 
provided  for  those  who  wish  to  qualify  as 
Trained  Nurses. 

OUR  SIX  MONTHS'  CONDENSED  COURSE 

in  all  the  branches  of  Nature  Cure  is  especially 
suited  for  physicians  and  nurses.  Courses  in 
any  one  or  more  branches  of  Nature  Cure  given 
by  special  arrangement. 

OUR  QUIZ  COURSES  FOR  STATE  BOARD 

EXAMINATIONS 

These  courses  cover  the  subjects  required 
to  pass  any  State  Board  Health  Examination  in 
the  United  States. 

For  detailed  information  concerning  these 
different  courses  of  instruction,  consult  our 
College  Prospectus,  sent  free  on  application. 

THE  LINDLAHR  COLLEGE  OF 

NATURE  CURE  AND  OSTEOPATHY 

525-529  S.  Ashland  Blvd.,         Chicago,  111. 


?^     -  - 

\'                 •          '■                 >                                 <^' 

'  r . 

^^                            \..^-     ■                         %/■ 

\.    .-./^  .^..^.v^V. . 

/-/ 

•->            '  O   ,    X    *          ,0                                 ^         ''y              V  >>         ,A                                 O            /  ,. 

..      -^b..                           .p>.'-'-.-'^/-'^      A^^      .        '''^/% 

^0^       ^                        ^/        ,,      .::^\      '^ 

0^ 

"'-'-  %><^.^-^"V      "-^^"^ 

^        ''/             ^       ,'\                         '^                                 O                         -" 

\ 

^"^■.''fe7/%-.w,.,/ 

,     ^A      *  - 

r. 

o  »   V   °        .o 


■"o 

o'^ 

r. 

0^ 

"''^ 

*   a 

"  / 

> 

s^' 

■*    /, 

% 

.<^^ 

.0^ 


'■^^. 


v"**' 


.\*^  °<. 


"oo^ 


0^ 


a\ 


-f   ft  «   s' 


>• 


•^^ 


cS 


S' 


■Sfl 


cP' 


^ 

-f^" 


"iHt^y^ 


,0o 


\ 


■%.      ^  0  •   ^ 


\^'  ^x. 


.^^ 


f-. 


-v^\ 


o  0^ 


9?, 


y<- 


O. 


cP' 


o>' 


\^ 


Oo^ 


'/,\ 


.^^  "% 


oV 


-0' 


,^\\       ,vi. 


-^^ 


