TX  715 
.W72 
Copy  1 


TXn\s 


NOV  "2  1914 
ICI.A388194 
*4t 


INTRODUCTION. 

The  name  of  this  book  is  "The  Never  Fail  Cook  Book."  It  i-  a 
story  of  cooking,  and  it  will  not  fail  if  the  rules  are  carried  out  just  as 
they  are  given  here.  The  recipes  are  economical,  and  yet  they  make 
high-class  dishes  at  a  very  small  price.  Something  can  be  made  out  of 
nothing,  practically  speaking.  This  book  once  used,  will  never  be  Ian? 
aside. 


Suggestions  for  using  these  Recipes. 

Please  read  them  over,  carefully,  before  making  any  attempt  to  do 
any    cooking. 

When  making  a  cake,  be  sure  that  the  oven  is  hot  before  putting 
the  pan  in,  and  after  this  has  been  done,  do  not  open  the  door 
again  for  fifteen  minutes. 

It  is  always  best  to  have  all  necessary  ingredients  at  your  side  before 
starting  to  make  anything,  as  you  are  liable  to  forget  something,  othei- 
wise. 

In  cooking  eggs  never  leave  them  on  the  stove  any  longer  than  the 
time  required  for  them  to  cook,  as  they  will  be  too  done,  if  you  do  so. 
Never  cook  a  three  minute  egg  two  mi  lutes  before  the  time  it  is  wanted 
and  put  it  aside  to  keep  hot,  for  if  you  do  it  will  be  found  to  be  too  done 
when  broken.  A  soft  boiled  egg  should  not  be  cooked  until  you  are 
ready   for   it. 


CEREALS 

To  Make  Mush. 

One  pint  of  boiling  water,  a  pinch  of  salt.  Stir  with  one  hand, 
sifting  in  enough  meal  to  allow  for  its  being  eaten  with  milk.     Serve  hot. 

It  can  also  be  served  after  it  has  become  cold,  by  cutting  into  little 
pieces  and  (lipping  into  beaten  egg,  then  fried.     Serve  with  syrup. 

Milk  Mush. 

One  quart  of  milk,  V2  cup  of  corn  meal.  Put  the  milk  on  in  a  double 
boiler,  and  after  it  has  boiled,  sift  in  the  meal  with  the  hand,  stirring 
constantly.  When  thick,  add  a  scant  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Cook  one 
hour  and  serve  with  milk  and  sugar,  or  butter,  only. 

SOUPS,   CHOWDERS,    Etc. 

Clam  Soup. 

One  quart  of  clams,  1  quart  of  milk,  1  tablespoonful  of  butter.  Boil 
the  clams  in  their  own  juice  for  five  minutes.  Take  them  out  and 
thicken  the  juice,  and  put  in  the  milk,  letting  it  get  hot,  but  not  boiling. 
Sprinkle  in   1   tablespoonful  of  chopped  parsley.     Serve  hot. 

Chicken  Broth  or  Soup. 

Boil    1    chicken    until    tender    enough    to    fall    apart.     Take    the 
chicken  out,  and  when  the  liquor  has  become  cold,  skim  off  the  grease 
and   heat.      It   is   now  ready  for  serving. 
The  chicken  may  be  used  for  salad. 

Kidney   Bean   Soup. 

One  pint  of  beans,  3  quarts  of  water,  1  ham  knuckle,  1  onion.  Put 
all  on  to  boil  until  the  beans  come  apart  into  pieces.  Strain  through 
a  line  sieve,  adding  salt,  if  necessary. 

Creamed  Spinach  Soup. 

Cook  2  quarts  of  spinach  in  salted  water,  until  it  is  very  soft,  then 
mash  through  a  line  sieve.  Put  on  2  quarts  of  milk,  and  thicken  it  the 
thickness  of  cream.     Salt  to  the  taste,  then  add  the  spinach.     Serve  hot. 

Parsnip   Soup. 

Peel  and  wash  2  large  parsnips,  putting  them  on  to  boil  until  they 
fall  apart.  Strain  through  a  fine  sieve.  Leave  1  quart  of  the  liquor, 
adding  to  it  1  tablespoonful  of  flour  that  has  been  mixed  with  a  little 
milk.  Roil  two  minutes.  Salt  to  taste.  Add  i  quart  of  milk.  Let  it  come  to 
the  boiling  point. 

Creamed  Yellow  Turnip  Soup. 

Peel  and  wash  1  turnip,  putting  it  on  to  boil  until  it  falls  apart. 
Strain  through  a  fine  sieve,  and  drop  in  a  lump  of  butter,  and  1  table- 
spoonful of  sugar.  Stir  all  together.  Add  1  quart  of  the  liquor  to  the 
turnips,  and  put  it  on  to  boil.  Thicken  it  with  a  little  flour  paste,  then 
cream,  and  add  L4  quarts  of  milk.  Stand  to  one  side  where  it  will  keep 
hot,  but  not  boil. 


Creamed  Potato  Soup. 

Two  large  potatoes  put  on  to  boil.  When  done  cream  with  2  tablespoonfuls  of 
butter.  Strain  through  a  fine  sieve,  add  1  quart  of  milk  and  2  bay  leaves. 
Stand  aside  to  keep  hot. 

Potato    Soup. 

Two  large  onions,  3  large  potatoes.  Put  the  onions  on  to  boil 
dropping  in  a  ham  bone  at  the  same  time.  When  they  have  boiled  to  pieces, 
add  potatoes,  and  let  them  boil.  Carry  though  a  fine  sieve.  This  snould 
make  2  quarts  of  soup. 

Creamed  Tomato  Soup. 

Boil  2  cans  or  2  quarts  of  fresh  tomatoes  for  five  minutes,  then  strain 
♦hem  through  a  muslin  bag.  Put  on  3  quarts  of  milk,  adding  3  table- 
spoonfuls  of  flour  and  3  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  creamed  together.  Let 
it  cook  two  minutes,  then  remove  from  the  stove  adding  1  teaspoonful 
of  soda,  stirring  it  constantly.  Salt  to  the  taste.  Now  pour  in  the 
tomato  juice  in  a  stream,  stirring  all  the  while.  If  not  ready  to  use, 
stand  aside  over  a  pot  of  hot  water. 

Peach  Soup. 

One  quart  of  soft  peaches,  1  large  cup  of  sugar.  Mix,  and  let  stand 
thirty  minutes,  then  strain  through  a  fine  sieve.  Heat  1  quart  of  milk  to 
the  boiling  point,  then  add  the  peaches.  Put  aside  to  get  ice  cold,  as 
this  soup  must  be  served  cold. 

This  is  nice  for  luncheon. 

Clam  Chowder. 

One  quart  of  hard  shell  clams,  2  large  potatoes,  1  large  onion,  4 
slices  of  pork,  1  pint  of  tomatoes,  1  tablespoonful  of  thyme,  salt  and 
pepper  to  the  taste.  Fry  the  pork,  then  the  onion.  Put  on  the  liquor, 
and  after  it  has  boiled,  skim  it.  Add  3  quarts  of  water  to  the  same,  and 
all  of  the  ingredients  with  the  exception  of  the  clams,  letting  it  boil 
for  three  hours.     Nov  put  in  the  clams,  and  let  them  boil  twenty  minutes. 

Fish  Chowder. 

Two  pounds  of  fish,  2  onions,  3  large  potatoes,  3  slices  of  salt  pork, 
1  pint  of  tomatoes.  Cut  the  pork  into  dices,  and  let  them  fry  until  brown. 
Cut  the  onions  up  fine,  and  fry  them  brown,  also.  Cut  the  potatoes  into 
lices  and  the  fish  into  small  pieces,  laying  them  in  the  pan,  the 
ootat^es  being  at  the  bottom.  Add  the  tomatoes  and  1  quart  of  water, 
cooking  until  the  potatoes  are  done.  Add  1  quart  of  milk  and  let  it  cook 
to  the  boiling  point.     Stand  aside  until  ready. 

Mock  Chowder. 

Three  large  potatoes,  1  pint  of  tomatoes,  1  onion,  2  teaspoonfuls 
of  thyme,  1  thick  slice  of  salt  pork,  1  small  parsnip.  1  gallon  of  chicken 
stock.  Cut  pork  into  dice  and  fry  brown.  Tak<  out  pork,  and  fry  onion 
until  brown.  Add  all  to  the  stock  and  boil  for  two  hours.  Now  put  in 
potatoes  cut  into  small  pieces  and  cook  one  hour  lo.iger,  then  serve. 

—  3  — 


Potato  Chowder, 
Four  quarts   of  chicken      stock,   1   large   onion,  2  large   potatoes,   1 
tablespoonful  of  thyme.     Fry  2  slices  of  salt  pork  cut  into  dices,  until 
brown.     Add  to  the  stock  the  onion,  cut  up,  thyme.  1  pint  of  tomatoes 
and  the  potatoes  cut  into  dices.     Put  all  on  to  boil  three  hours. 

Clara  Broth. 
Use  only  the  necks  of  the  clams.     Wash,  and  put  on  in  2  quarts  of 
water,  letting  it  simmer  down  to  1  quart.     Add  salt  and  pepper  to  the 
taste.     If  you  have  any  cooked  rice,  add  it  also,  if  not  cook  some  in  a 
separate  pot,  and  put  it  in  the  broth. 

Consomme. 
Into  a  pot  of  water  place  1  chicken  and  boil  so  as  to  leave  4  quarts.  Re- 
move chicken  and  put  into  this  water,  1  turnip,  1  onion.  1  carrot,  a  small 
bunch  of  parsley,  and  add  a  little  sage,  or  mint,  and  tapioca.  Break  in  2  raw 
eggs  and  put  in  2  pounds  of  beef.  Allow  the  whole  to  boil  three  hours.  Then 
strain  off  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Stand  aside  to  cool,  then  skim  and 
keep  in  a  cold  place  until  ready  for  use. 

Tomato  Bouillon. 

Three  quarts  of  tomatoes,  1  quart  of  water,  a  small  bunch  of  ros< 
marv.  4  bay  leaves,  a  large  grated  onion,  and  some  oarsiey.     Put  this  to 
cook  slowly  for  thirty  minutes.         Now  add  1  tablespoonful  of  flour,    s 
tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,    and     salt  to  the  taste.       Strain    through   a   fine 
sieve,    and  serve  hot  with  sliced  lemon. 

FISH,  OYSTERS,  Etc. 

Devilled    Crabs. 

Take  17  live  crabs  and  place  them  into  a  pan  filled  with  cold  watea. 
for  four  minutes.  Remove  them,  placing  them  into  a  pot  containing  1 
cup  of  water.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and  cayenne  pepper,  cover  tight,  and 
let  it  cook  twenty  minutes.  Take  them  out  and  pick  out  the  meat,  beinp 
careful  not  to  break  the  shells.  Add  1  cup  of  cracker  crumbs  and  2 
tablespoonfuls  of  finely  chopped  parsley  to  the  meat.  Boil  4  eggz 
hard,  mashing  the  whites  with  a  fork,  and  creaming  the  yolks  with  K 
cup  of  butter,  until  very  light.  Salt  and  pepper  to  the  taste,  putting  in 
a  pinch  of  mustard.  Mix  all  together  and  fill  the  shells.  Sprinkle  on  a 
little  cracker  crumbs  and  a  bit  of  butter.     Brown  in  a  very  hot  oven. 

Creamed  Oyster  Crabs. 

Put  1  pint  of  milk  on  stove.  Cream  1  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  i  light 
tablespoonful  of  flour  together.  When  milk  is  at  boiling  point,  add  creamect 
butter  and  flour;  when  thick  add  1  quart  of  oyster  crabs,  boiled  in  their  own 
liquor,  3  minutes.     Don't  add  the  liquor.     Serve  hot. 

Oyster   Sandwiches. 

Cut  the  bread  into  thin  slices,  cutting  off  the  edges.  Toast  to  a 
golden  brown  and  butter.  Pick  over  the  oysters.  Put  into  a  pan,  1 
tablespoonful  of  butter,  1  teaspoonful  of  curry  powder,  and  salt  and 
pepper  to  the  taste.  With  a  fork,  put  in  the  oysters,  shaking  the  pan 
while  they  cook.  Lay  them  between  two  pieces  of  toast,  and  put  in  the 
oven  to  keep  hot  until  ready  to  use.     Serve  with  whipped"  cream  on  top. 

_4  — 


The  Hidden  Oyster. 

Take  a  large  fish,  and  cut  it  into  thin  slices  about  the  size  of  an 
oyster.  Salt  and  pepper  the  oyster,  but  only  salt  the  fish.  Roll  an 
oyster  in  each  piece  of  fish,  pinning  them  together  with  a  toothpick. 
Dip  them  in  beaten  egg,  then  cracker  meal,  and  fry  in  a  deep  pot  of 
grease.     Serve  hot  on  lettuce  leaves. 

This  can  be  served  as  a  salad,  entrees,  or  just  plain. 

Roasted  Oysters. 

Wash  and  dry  the  oysters,  and  lay  them  in  a  pan.  Put  them  in 
the  oven,  letting  them  stay  until  the  mouths  open.  Be  sure  not  to  let 
them  cook  too  long.  After  taking  them  out  of  the  oven,  remove  the 
shells  and  salt  and  pepper  them.  Put  a  little  whipped  cream  on  top, 
and  serve  with  a  cracker  on  the  side  of  each. 

Oyster  Patties. 

Make  a  puff  paste,  lining  the  pattie  pan  with  same.  Stick  full  of  holes. 
Bake  the  paste  to  a  light  brown.  Cream  the  oysters,  and  fill  the  pattie  shells. 
Keep  hot. 

To  Fry  Fish. 

Clean  the  fish  well,  and  cut  it  into  medium  size  pieces.  Wash 
them  in  3  waters,  and  let  drain  thoroughly.  Salt  and  pepper,  dipping 
them  into  cracker  crumbs,  and  fry  in  hot  fat.     Serve  very  hot. 

Fried  Fish   Served  with   Pork. 

Slice  salt  pork,  and  put  it  on  in  a  pan  of  cold  water.  Let  it  come 
to  a  boiling  point,  then  drain  off  the  water,  and  let  it  fry  to  a  brown  crisp. 
Fry  the  fish  as  directed  before,  and  serve  with  the  pork,  pouring  over 
the  gravy. 

To  Fry  Soft  Shell  Clams. 

Rinse  well  2  bunches  of  clams,  cutting  off  the  soft  part  with  a  fork 
Beat  up  1  egg,  and  dip  the  soft  part  of  the  clams  in  same,  then  in  the 
cracker  meal,  repeat  this,  and  fry  in  a  deep  pot  of  grease  to  a  light 
brown  color. 

The  rest  of  the  clams  can  be  used  for  fritters  or  soup,  by  chop- 
ping them  very  fine. 

Salt  Mackerel  with  Tomato. 

Soak  1  or  2  mackerels  over  night,  laying  the  split  side  down.  Take 
them  out  in  the  morning,  and  put  into  a  pan  with  sliced  tomato  on  the 
top.  Put  on  a  little  piece  of  butter,  and  bake  for  twenty  minutes.  Serve 
hot  with  the  sauce  that  is  left  in  the  pan. 

This  is  a  nice  breakfast  dish. 

Fried  Scallops. 

One  quart  of  scallops.  Pour  1  quart  of  boiling  water  over  the 
scallops,  and  let  it  stand  for  four  minutes.  Drain  them,  and  dip  them  in 
beaten  egg  and  cracker  dust.  Repeat  this,  and  then  fry  in  a  deep  pot  of 
grease  until  it  becomes  a  light  brown  color.     Serve  hot. 

—  5  - 


Creamed  Scallops. 
One  quart  of  scallops,  3  cups  of  milk,  2  large  tablespoonfuls  ol 
butter,  1  tablespoonful  of  flour,  Yz  pod  of  red  pepper  (remove  the 
seeds).  Chop  the  pepper  up  fine,  and  put  the  milk  on  to  boil  in  a 
double  boiler.  Rinse  the  scallops,  and  place  them  in  the  milk  to  cook 
for  five  minutes.  Take  them  out,  and  thicken  the  milk  with  the  but- 
ter, pepper,  and  flour.  Return  the  scallops  to  the  pot,  and  set  it  back 
on  tne  stove  until  ready  to  serve.     This  must  be  served  hot. 

Crab  Sona. 

Cook  1  dozen  crabs.  Put  them  iu  a  pan  of  cold  water,  let  it  stand  for  three 
minutes.  Return  to  the  pot  add  salt  and  cook  twenty  minutes.  Cover  tight 
Fry  1  large  onion.  Pick  the  crabs.  Add  to  onion  that  has  been  fried  in  lots 
of  butter,  a  little  chopped  parsley  and  a  teaspoonful  of  curry  powder,  Lay  the 
crabs  in  a  dish.  Whip  3  eggs,  add  3  tablespoonf.tls  of  cold  water.  Scramble 
the  eggs  in  butter  and  put  on  top  of  the  crabs.  Garnish  and  serve  hot.  This 
is  nice  for  tea. 

Broiled  Weak   Fish. 
Broil  as  you  would  a  shad,  only  add  a  little  salt  and  a  small  piece 
of  butter.     Slice   a   lemon   and   lay   it   on   the   fish.     Stand   in   the   oven 
fifteen  minutes,  and  serve  hot.     Garnish  with  parsley. 

Baked   Shad. 

Clean,  wash,  and  split  down  the  front.  Make  a  stuffing  and  put  it 
in  the  fish,  then  sew  it  up.  After  salting,  put  in  a  baking  pan  with  \ 
pint  of  water.  Bake  one  hour  in  a  slow  oven.  Lay  on  a  platte* 
and  serve  hot  with  parsley  and  sliced  ltmou  on   the  top. 

Broiled  Shad. 

Clean,  wash,  and  split  down  the  back.  After  it  is  dry,  spread  soft 
lard  on  it  with  a  knife,  both  sides.  Cook  on  a  broiling  iron  until  it 
gets  a  golden  brown  color,  then  slip  it  off,  and  after  buttering  it,  put  it 
in  the  oven  for  ten  minutes.     Serve  hot  with  sliced  lemon. 

Crump  Smelts. 

Twelve  smelts,  cleaned,  washed,  dried,  and  then  well  salted.  Make 
a  dressing  of  bread,  salt,  pepper,  and  butter,  and  stuff  the  fish,  but  do 
not  split  them.  Then  dip  the  fish  into  beaten  egg,  then  in  cracker  meal 
Tie  or  pin  the  heads  and  tails  together,  and  fry  in  deep  pot  of  grease.  Serve 
hot  on  a  platter  garnished  with  parsley  or  a  tartar  sauce. 

Cold  Salmon. 

One  can  of  salmon,  1  large  or  2  small  onions  chopped  fine.  Picfc 
the  fish  apart,  removing  the  bones,  mix  with  the  onions,  and  sprinkle 
over  juice  of  1  lemon.     Garnish  with  parsley. 

This  makes  a  very  nice  luncheon  dish. 

Creamed  Salmon. 

One  can  of  salmon,  2  cups  of  milk,  1  tablespoonful  of  flour,  2  table 
spoonsful  of  butter.  Cream  the  butter  and  flour  together,  and  put  on 
the  milk  to  get  hot,  but  not  to  boil.  Add  the  butter  and  flour  to  the 
milk,  stirring  it  until  it  thickens.  Remove  from  the  stove,  and  afte- 
putting  in  a  little  salt,  pour  over  the  salmon.     Serve  hot. 

—  6—  ! 


Boiled  Halibut. 

Clean  and  wash  the  fish  well,  then  boil  in  salted  water  for  twenty 
minutes.  If  you  haven't  a  fish  platter  lay  it  on  a  plate,  and  place  this 
in  a  pot.     Serve  with  egg  sauce. 

Salmon  Croquettes. 
One-half  cup  of  boiling  water,  1  large  tablespoonful  of  butter,  2 
heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  flour.  When  the  water  and  butter  has  boiled, 
add  the  flour,  letting  it  cook  for  two  minutes.  Remove  from  the  fire, 
and  let  it  stand  aside  until  it  cools,  then  add  1  can  of  salmon.  Mix 
well,  stirring  in  1  egg.  Drop  into  a  deep  pot  of  grease  by  the  spoon- 
ful, and  fry  until  brown.     Serve  hot. 

Scalloped  Fish. 
Two  pounds  of  cod  or  any  kind  of  white  fish.  Wash  ana  put  on 
to  boil  for  twenty  minutes.  After  it  has  stood  aside  to  get  cold,  pick 
it  apart.  Slice  two  large  onions,  and  make  a  layer  of  each,  sprinkling 
a  little  flour  on  each  layer,  putting  a  piece  of  butter  on  the  top.  Fill 
v-ith  milk,  and  bake  in  a  good  oven,  thirty  minutes. 

Salt  Codfish  with  Scrambled  Eggs. 

Soak  the  fish  over  night,  put  on  to  boil  in  the  morning  until  done. 
Take  it  out  and  pick  apart,  putting  it  into  a  frying-pan  with  butter. 
Break  in  3  eggs,  stirring  well.     Add  pepper  and  salt  to  the  taste. 

This  is  a  nice  dish  for  breakfast,  luncheon,  or  tea. 

Salt  Mackerel  with  Tomato   Sauce. 

Soak  the  mackerel  overnight,  put  on  to  boil  in  the  morning  in  cold 
water,  until  tender.  Make  a  sauce  out  of  1  pint  of  tomatoes,  1  table- 
spoonful  of  butter,  and  1  teaspoonful  of  sugar.  Let  it  cook  down  to  1 
cup,  and  add  a  little  salt  and  pepper  to  the  taste.  Serve  over  the  fish, 
hot. 

Baked    Fish   with   Tomato    Sauce.    , 

Take  weak  or  blue  fish,  wash  and  salt  it,  laying  it  into  a  dripping 
r.  an  and  flour.  One  quart  of  tomatoes,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar, 
and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Pour  this  over  the  fish,  and  bake  for 
thirty  minutes,  basting  often. 

This  is  a  very  nice  dish  for  dinner  or  entrees. 

Stuffed  Fish  with  Oyster  Dressing. 

Take  a  large  fish,  weak  or  shad.  Clean  it,  splitting  it  down  the 
front  and  washing  it.  Take  1  cup  of  crumbs,  1  tablespoonful  of  butter, 
salt  and  pepper  to  the  taste,  and  mix  with  1  pint  of  oysters.  Stuff  the 
fish  with  this,  then  sew  it  up.  Bake,  using  skimmed  liquor  for  basting. 
Serve  with   sliced  lemon. 

Oyster  She  Le. 

One  quart  of  oysters  having  not  less  than  1  cup  of  liquor,  1  light 
raspoonful  of  flour,  1  tablespoonful  of  butter,  3  eggs,  ]/2  cup  of  milk. 
Put  the  oysters  on  in  their  own  liquor  and  boil  until  they  curve.  Take  the 
oysters  out.  Cream  the  butter  and  flour,  and  add  it  to  the  liquor.  Whip 
the  eggs  until  light,  then  add  the  milk.  Put  1  tablespoonful  of  butter 
in  a  frying-pan,  and  turn  in,  the  eggs,  shaking  or  stirring  until  set. 
Put  the  oysters  on  a  hot  platter,  and  pour  over  the  scrambled  eggs. 
Sprinkle  over    the    top    with    chopped  parsley,  and  serve  hot. 


Fish  Olive. 

Split  the  fish  down  the  back,  wash,  salt,  and  lay  in  a  baking  pan. 
Cut  olives  over  the  flsh,  %  cup  of  Cream.     Cook  20  minutes.     Serve  hot. 

Broiled  Oysters. 
Take  large  oysters,  dry  them  thoroughly,  rub  lard  on  the  iron  and  lay  the 
oysters.     Brown  on  both  sides;  lay  on  a  platter  with   a  piece   of   butter;    lay 
lemon  around.     Serve  hot. 

Fried  Oysters. 
Pick  over  1  quart  of  oysters  and  rinse  them  off.     Beat  2  eggs  with 
a  fork,  adding  salt  and  pepper  to  the  taste.     Dip  the  oysters   twice  in 
the  eggs  and  cracker  dust,  patting  them   between  the  hands  until   dry. 
Fry  in  a  deep  pot  of  grease,  and  drain  on  brown  paper.     Serve  hot. 

SALADS 

Beet    Salad. 

Four  large  beets,  chopped,  1  onion,  1  large  or  3  small  pickles,  1 
stalk  of  celery.  Chop  these  together  and  mix,  adding  a  little  cayenne 
pepper.  Serve  with  boiled  dressing,  sprinkling  chopped  parsley  on  the 
top. 

Ball  Salad. 

Boil  3  eggs  until  hard,  then  grind  the  whites  and  mash  the  yolks, 
putting  1  teaspoonful  of  butter  with  the  latter.  Mix  in  the  whites,  and 
salt  and  pepper  to  the  taste.  Now  add  1  tablespoonful  of  dressing,  and 
make  into  little  balls.  Place' on  lettuce  leaves,  and  serve  with  dressing 
on  top. 

Apple  Salad. 

Two  cups  of  chopped  apples,  2  cups  of  chopped  celery,  2  cups  of 
chopped  nuts,  each  having  been  chopped  separately.  Mix  altogether 
adding  salt  to  the  taste,  and  put  in  the  salad  dressing.  Serve  on  lettuce 
leaves,  very  cold. 

Sweet  Potato  Salad. 

Two  cups  of  boiled  potatoes,  2  cups  of  lettuce  leaves  stalks,  ]/2  cup 
of  chopped  onions,  Yz  cup  of  pickles,  2  eggs,  1  gill  of  vinegar,  1  gill  of 
cream,  1  salt  spoon  of  mustard,  salt,  and  cayenne  pepper,  each.  Whip 
the  eggs  and  mix  altogether,  leaving  the  vinegar  until  the  last.  Cook 
until  thick  and  set  aside  to  cool.  Mix  with  the  dressing,  and  serve 
on  lettuce  leaves. 

Old-fashioned  Potato  Salad. 
Boil  20  small  potatoes,  and  when  cold,  skin  and  slice  them,  thin. 
Mix  up  y2  cup  of  vinegar,  1  cup  of  oil,  1  teaspoonful  of  black-pepper, 
2  onions  chopped  fine,  1  tablespoonful  of  chopped  parsley.  Mix  together 
all  of  these,  salting  to  taste.  Serve  on  lettuce  leaves  with  frank- 
furters and  hard  boiled  eggs. 

Oyster  Salad. 
One  quart   of  small   oysters   allowed   to   cook    two   minutes,   adding 
a   little   vinegar  while   hot.     Put   aside    to  keep   cool.     Mix   this   with    2 
cups  of  celery,  chopped  very  fine,  and  mayonnaise  dressing,  salting  to 
the  taste.     Serve  on  lettuce  leaves,  with  dots  of  dressing  on  top, 


Green  Pepper  Salad. 

Two  large  or  4  small  peppers,  2  tomatoes,  1  lemon.  If  the  peppers 
are  large,  cut  into  four  parts,  if  small,  into  two  parts.  Take  out  the 
seeds,  and  put  them  into  cold  water.  Peel  the  lemons,  taking  out  the 
seeds  and  pulp.  Cut  them  fine,  also  the  tomatoes,  and  mix  with  dressing. 
Fill  the  peppers  with  same,  putting  a  little  dressing  on  the  top.  Serve 
on  lettuce  leaves. 

Hot  Slaw. 

Chopped  cabbage  is  to  be  used.  One  cup  of  vinegar,  2  tablespoon 
fuls  of  sugar,  1  tablespoonful  of  black  pepper.  Mix  and  get  hot,  then 
pour  over  the  cabbage  and  serve. 

Old-fashioned   Cabbage    Slaw. 

One  small  hard  head  of  cabbage,  slice  thin.  Now  mix  1  cup  of 
vinegar,  1  cup  of  salad  oil,  1  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  1  tablespoonful 
of  black  pepper.  Put  on  to  get  hot,  then  mix  with  the  cabbage,  serv- 
ing cold  with  hard  boiled  eggs. 

Hot   Lettuce   Salad. 

Cut  up  2  heads  of  lettuce.  Cut  Yz  pound  of  bacon  into  dices,  and 
fry  it  until  crisp.  Take  out  the  bacon,  and  put  l/i  cup  of  vinegar  into 
the  pan.  When  it  is  hot,  put  in  the  lettuce,  and  let  it  cook  for  one 
minute.  Remove  from  the  stove,  and  serve  with  the  dice  and  vinegar 
on  top. 

Secret  Lettuce  Salad. 

Three  eggs  boiled  hard  and  chopped  with  2  cups  of  celery.  Mix 
with  the  dressing  and  fill  the  lettuce  cups  which  have  been  made  by 
tying  two  leaves  together  with  ribbon,  the  stalks  being  at  the  bottom 
so  they  will  stand  up  on  the  ends.     Pour  the  dressing  on  the  top. 

This  makes  a  pretty  dish. 

Gelatine  Salad. 

One-half  box  of  gelatine,  x/z  cup  of  vinegar,  J4  gill  of  sugar,  2 
cups  of  chopped  apples,  1  cup  of  red  cherries.  Chop  all  fine.  Soak 
the  gelatine  in  1  cup  of  water.  When  it  has  dissolved,  add  2\A  cups 
of  boiling  water,  and  when  it  has  set,  mix  in  the  fruit.  Lay  in  the 
lettuce  leaves  which  have  been  on  the  dish  in  a  sort  of  round  mould. 
Stand  away  to  harden.     Serve  with  mayonnaise  dressing. 

Banana  Salad. 

Two  bananas,  Y%  cup  of  chopped  nuts,  Ys  cup  of  mayonnaise  dress- 
ing. Split  the  bananas  in  two,  then  cut  each  piece  in  half,  and  lay  on 
the  dishes  having  a  crisp  piece  of  lettuce  on  each.  Sprinkle  on  the  nuts, 
then  pour  on  the  salad  dressing.     Serve  ice  cold. 

Mexican  Dressing. 

Two  green  peppers,  4  small  onions,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  white 
drippens,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  rice,  1  pint  of  tomatoes.  Slice  the  onions 
in  the  pan  and  fry  until  brown.  Take  out  the  insides  of  the  peppers 
and  wash  them,  first.  Cut  them  up,  and  add  all  together,  cooking 
until  the  rice  is  soft.     Salt  to   taste.     Serve  over  meats. 

-  9  — 


Circle   Salad. 

Six  hard  boiled  eggs,  3  cups  of  beets,  3  cups  of  celery,  2  large  car- 
rots, 2  large  cucumbers.  Let  1  be  a  pickle,  and  the  other  a  fresh  one. 
The  carrots  and  celery  are  to  be  cooked,  and  each  vegetable  is  to  be 
chopped  separately.  Now  mix  each  vegetable,  separately  also,  with  the 
salad  dressing,  and  lay  on  a  dish,  making  a  ring  of  each.  Halve  the 
eggs,  taking  out  the  yolks  without  breaking  them.  Put  the  whites  on 
the  beets,  and  the  yolks  on  the  celery.  Chop  some  parsley  and  mix 
with  dressing,  then  put  this  on  the  carrots.  Fill  the  whites  of  the  eggs 
with  dressing  and  put  the  dish  aside  until  ready  to  use. 

Brown  Salad  Dressing. 

Four  eggs,  l/i  cup  of  cream,  Yi  cup  of  vinegar,  Y2  teaspoonful  of 
mustard,  2  pinches  of  cayenne  pepper,  a  light  teaspoonful  of  salt,  1 
tablespoonful  of  flour  that  has  been  browned  in  the  oven.  Whip  the 
eggs  until  light,  with  a  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  then  add  the  cream. 
Mix  the  flour  with  the  vinegar,  so  as  to  remove  all  the  lumps,  then 
mix  all  together.  Cook  until  thick,  stirring  constantly.  Remove  from 
the  fire,  and  keep  in  a  closed  jar. 

Plain  Salad  Dressing. 

Two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  */2  cup  of  sugar,  1  tablespoonful  of 
flour,  1  teaspoonful,  each,  of  salt  and  mustard,  Yz  cup  of  milk  or  cream, 
1  cup  of  vinegar,  2  eggs.  Whip  the  sugar  and  eggs,  then  add  the  milk, 
whipping  again.  Put  in  the  mustard,  salt,  and  then  the  flour  with  a  little 
vinegar.  Mix  together,  and  put  on  the  stove  to  cook  until  thick,  stir- 
ring constantly.     Remove  from  the  fire  ready  for  use. 

This  can  be  used  on  potatoes  or  cabbage. 

Stuffed  Tomato  Salad. 

Six  tomatoes,  3  potatoes,  salt  to  taste.  Boil  and  chop  the  potatoes 
up  fine.  Cut  off  the  tops  of  the  tomatoes,  and  take  out  the  insides,  drain 
off  the  juice,  then  chop  all  together.  Mix  with  the  dressing  and  fill 
the  tomatoes.  Serye  on  lettuce  leaves.  Don't  mix  any  of  these  salads 
with  cooked  salad  dressing,  unless  so  stated  by  the  book. 

Tomato  Salad. 

Six  tomatoes,  1  cup  of  cold  boiled  potatoes,  1  cup  of  celery.  Cut 
off  the  top  of  the  tomatoes,  removing  the  insides  without  breaking  the 
skins.  Chop  the  potatoes,  celery,  and  insides  of  the  tomatoes,  mixing 
all  together  with  Yz  cup  of  mayonnaise  dressing.  Salt  to  taste.  Fill  the 
tomatoes,  and  put  dressing  on  top.  Stand  in  the  ics  bax  until  ready  to 
serve. 

Sliced  Tomato  Salad. 

Pour  boiling  water  over  the  tomatoes  and  let  them  stand  for  two 
or  three  minutes.  Remove  the  skins,  and  set  aside  to  coo!.  Slice  on 
lettuce  leaves,  and  serve  with  dressing. 

Shrimp  Salad. 

One  pint  of  shrimps,  allowed  to  boil  20  minutes  in  salted  water. 
After  they  have  been  removed  from  the  stove  and  are  cool,  skin  them 
and  place  on  ice.  When  ready  to  use,  cut  them  up,  mixing  with  salad 
dressing.     Serve  on  lettuce  leaves. 

—  19  — 


Egg  Salad. 

Six  eggs  put  on  to  boil  20  minutes.  Remove  and  put  into  cold 
water,  then  take  off  the  shells.  With  a  pointed  knife,  cut  the  eggs  back 
and  forth,  ltngthwisje,  thus  making  it  scalloped.  Lay  on  lettuce  leaves, 
and  serve  with  mayonnaise  dressing. 

One  Egg  More  Salad. 
Fry  your  eggs,  but  do  not  let  them  get  brown,  using  1  egg  to  each 
slice  of  tomato  which  must  be  cut  thick,  and  fried  until  brown.  Spread 
lettuce  leaves  on  a  dish,  and  place  the  tomatoes  on  the  leaves  with  an 
egg  on  each  slice.  For  a  dressing  use  1  tablespoon  of  melted  butte 
3  tablespoon fuls  of  vinegar,  and  a  little  salt  and  pepper.  Pour  over  the 
salad,    and    serve. 

Green  Pea  Noodle  Salad. 

Use  peas  that  have  been  cooked.  Make  a  batter  of  1  cup  of  flour,  1 
teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  Yi  cup  of  vinegar,  1  tablespoonful  of 
sugar,  and  1  egg.  Mix  the  peas  with  the  batter,  separately,  and  cook 
them  in  a  deep  pot  of  hot  grease,  removing  them,  when  brown,  with  a 
fork.     Serve  with  mayonnaise  dressing,  on  lettuce  leaves. 

I  Don't  Know  Salad. 
One  cup,  each,  of  string  beans,  carrots,  potatoes,  tomatoes,  celery, 
and   beets,  2  cups   of   chicken   2   hard    boiled   eggs.     Chop   all   together, 
salting  to  the  taste.     Mix  with  mayonnaise  dressing,  and  serve  on  let- 
tuce leaves,  with  a  slice  of  an  egg  on  top. 

What  Is  This  Salad? 
Six  small  cucumbers,  Yz  cup  of  small  green  peas,  1  onion,  chopped 
fine.  Cut  off  the  ends  of  the  cucumbers,  take  out  the  insides,  then  peal 
and  lay  in  cold  water.  Mix  the  peas  and  onions  with  dressing,  and 
place  into  the  cucumbers.  Put  on  the  ends  again,  and  serve  on  lettuce 
leaves  with  dressing  on  top. 

Rio   Salad. 

One  cup  of  chopped  beets,  2  cups  of  chopped  apples,  1  tablespoonful 
of  chopped  parslej'',  y2  cup  of  chopped  nuts,  all  to  be  chopped  separately. 
Mix  together,  salting  to  the  taste,  and  add  the  mayonnaise  dressing. 
Serve  on  lettuce  leaves,  with  a  little  dressing  dotted  on  top. 

VEGETABLES 

Fried  Egg-Plant. 
Peel  and  slice  thin,  salting  each  piece  and  making  a  pile  of  it.  Put 
a  plate  with  a  weight  on  top  of  the  pile,  and  stand  aside  for  thirty 
minutes.  Whip  1  egg,  sprinkling  in  a  little  pepper.  Now  dip  the  egg- 
plant using  1  piece  at  a  time  into  the  beaten  egg,  then  cracker  meal,  and 
fry  in  deep  fat  until  brown.  Serve  immediately,  as  it  will  get  limber  if 
left  to  stand. 

To   Cook  Lima   Beans. 
Shell,  pick  over,  and  wash,  then  put  them  in  cold  water  with  a  little 
salt  to  cook.     When  tender,  remove  from  the  stove,  pouring  off  the  water. 
Add  a  little  pepper,   if  desired,  and  butter.     Serve  hot. 

—  11  — 


String   Beans. 

String  the  beans,  breaking  off  the  ends  the  way  they  curve.  Cut 
them  up,  and  put  on  in  salted  water,  if  not  in  a  hurry,  but  if  in  a  hurry 
wait  until  the  beans  are  nearly  done  before  salting.  It  is  best  to  put 
them  on  in  plenty  of  time,  so  that  they  can  be  salted  at  once,  as  the 
salt  hardens  the  beans.     When  nearly  done  add  butter. 

Boston  Baked  Beans. 

One  pint  of  beans  picked  over  and  washed,  then  set  aside  in  cold 
water  to  swell.  After  they  have  swelled,  put  them  on  to  boil,  and  be- 
fore they  begin  to  boil,  put  a  slice  of  pork  in  the  bottom  of  the  bean  jar. 
Pour  your  beans  in  the  jar,  adding  y2  teaspoonful  of  mustard,  a  pinch 
of  soda,  salt,  1  tablespoonful  of  vinegar,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  molasses  to 
the  water.  Cover  the  jar,  and  stand  in  the  oven  over  night.  Let  it 
cook  6  hours  the  next  day  in  a  slow  oven,  putting  in  more  water,  if  it 
boils  down.     When  done,  they  will  be  a  nice  brown  all  the  way  through. 

Baked   Beans. 

Wash  and  pick  1  pint  of  beans,  putting  them  on  to  boil  with  l/2 
pound  of  pork,  until  tender.  Put  into  a  baking  dish  with  the  pork  on  top 
and  let  it  cook  for  three-quarters  of  an  hour  to  a  nice  brown. 

Black-eyed   Peas. 

Pick  over  carefully  1  pint  of  peas,  and  put  them  on  to  boil  in  fresh 
water.  When  half  done,  pour  over  some  cold  water.  This  will  make  the 
peas  go  to  the  bottom,  then  take  them  out  putting  them  in  hot  water  and 
salt.  Fry  some  salt  pork,  and  pour  the  grease  into  the  peas.  Let  them 
cook  until  soft.     Serve  hot. 

Left  Over  Corn. 

Cut  it  from  the  cob.  Put  butter  into  the  pan,  then  the  corn,  and  add 
1  gill  of  water,  a  little  sugar,  and  a  little  salt  and  pepper.  It  is  very  nice 
this  way. 

Boiled  Corn  on  the  Cob. 

Put  on  a  pot  with  water  to  cover,  and  add  a  little  milk.  Drop  in 
the  corn  and  let  boil  fifteen  minutes.  Remove  at  once,  and  serve  in  a 
napkin. 

Roast  Corn  in  the  Shucks. 

Shuck  6  ears  of  corn,  and  remove  all  the  silk.  Be  sure  not  to  take 
the  shucks  apart.  Now  place  the  corn  back  in  the  shucks,  and  tie  tightly. 
Put  in  a  very  hot  oven  to  bake  twenty-five  minutes.  This  is  very  nice, 
as  none  of  the  sweetness  is  lost. 

Succotash. 

Three  ears  of  corn,  1  pint  of  lima  beans.  Wash  the  beans  and  put 
them  on  to  boil  until  tender.  Cut  the  corn  from  the  cob,  and  add  it  to 
the  beans.  Put  in  1  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  1  cup  of  milk.  Let  this 
cook  ten  minutes  longer.     Salt  to  the  taste. 

—  12  — 


To   Boil   Young   Turnip   Salad. 

The  salad  must  be  very  young.  Cut  it  off  at  the  roots,  and  wash  in 
several  waters  to  be  sure  that  it  is  clean.  A  good  way  to  test  whether 
it  has  any  grits  or  not  is  to  put  the  hand  at  the  bottom  of  the  pan  for 
same.  It  can  be  very  easily  felt,  if  there.  Boil  with  meat  as  you  would 
cabbage. 

Creamed  Cabbage. 

Cut  up  the  cabbage  as  for  slaw  and  wash.  Then  put  it  on  to  boil  until 
tender.  Let  it  boil  down  to  1  cup  of  liquor,  then  add  1  cup  of  milk  and 
a  lump  of  butter.     Thicken  to  the  thickness  of  cream. 

Boiled  Cabbage. 

Cut  up  the  cabbage  pulling  the  leaves  apart.  Boil  in  ham  water  or 
salt  pork.  Drop  in  a  piece  of  red  pepper.  Don't  let  it  stand  after  it 
has  cooked,  as  it  will  turn  red  and  get  soggy. 

Boiled   Cabbage   with   Dumplings. 

One  head  of  cabbage  cut  up  and  pulled  apart.  Lay  in  cold  water. 
Put  on  a  piece  of  ham  or  pork  to  boil,  and  when  it  is  done,  put  in  the 
cabbage  to  boil.  Mix  2  cups  of  southern  cornmeal  and  1  tablespoonful 
of  lard.  Add  hot  liquor  to  half  of  this,  finishing  it  with  cold  water. 
Don't  have  it  too  soft.  Wet  the  hands  with  cold  water,  then  shape  into 
balls,  and  pat  down,  lightly  until  an  inch  thick.  Lay  them  on  the  top 
and  stick  down  the  sides  of  the  pot.  Cover  and  let  boil  for  ten  or 
fifteen  minutes.     Do  not  let  them  boil  longer,  as  they  will  come  apart. 

To  Cream  Carrots. 

Tv/o  large  carrots,  scraped,  washed,  and  cut  into  strips  an  inch  long. 
Put  on  to  boil  in  salted  water  until  tender,  then  pour  off  the  water.  Let 
2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and  1  of  flour  cook  for  five  minutes  without 
browning.  Add  three  gills  of  milk,  and  let  it  cook  three  minutes  longer. 
Pour  over  the  carrots  and  serve. 

Braval  Carrots. 

Peel  and  wash  3  carrots,  putting  them  on  to  boil  until  tender,  in 
salted  water,  then  remove  to  one  side  to  keep  hot.  Put  on  in  a  saucepan, 
1  cup  of  water,  1  teaspoonful  of  butter,  a  dash  of  salt  and  pepper,  1 
teaspoonful  of  celery  powder,  1  teaspoorful  of  sugar,  1  teaspoonful  of 
Worcester  Sauce.  When  this  has  boiled  thicken  with  flour  and  water 
to  the  thickness  of  cream.     Add  to  the  carrots. 

Carrot  Croquettes. 

Boil  4  small  or  1  large  carrot  until  tender.  Drain  and  mash  fine,  add- 
ing 1  tablespoonful  of  butter.  Cream  and  salt  and  pepper  to  the  taste. 
Add  1  tablespoonful  of  flour  and  1  tablespoonful  of  baking  powder,  also  1 
teaspoonful  of  sugar.  When  this  has  gotten  cold,  whip  in  1  egg,  well.  Drop 
by  the  spoonsful  in  deep  fat,  frying  until  brown.     Serve  hot. 

Creamed  Radishes. 

Cut  off  the  tops  and  roots  then  wash  them.  Put  on  to  boil  in 
salted  water  until  tender.  Drain  the  water  off  and  serve  with  sauce  as 
you  would  in  creamed  beets. 

—  13  — 


Big  Hominy. 

One  pint  of  dried  corn  put  down  to  soak  over  night  with  a  pinch  of  soda 
in  the  water.  Wash  it  good,  in  the  morning,  taking  off  all  the  husk 
that  can  be  gotten  off.  Put  on  in  salted  cold  water  to  cook  until  tender. 
Fry  some  sait  pork,  and  after  removing  the  meat  place  the  hominy  in 
the  pan  to  cook  for  five  or  ten  minutes.  It  can  also  be  fried  in  butter,  if 
preferable.     Serve  hot.     Milk  and  sugar  may  be  used  with  this. 

To  Fry  Fresh  Corn. 

Pick  out  all  the  silk,  and  cut  it  from  the  cob.  Place  corn  in  a  pan, 
add  a  little  butter,  pepper  and  salt.  Let  it  cook  two  minutes,  then  add  a  little 
sugar  aud  a  cup  of  milk  to  6  ears  of  corn.  Cook  two  minutes  longer  to  allow 
the  sugar  to  go  throngh. 

Tomato  Fly. 

Four  large  tomatoes,  4  eggs,  Y2  cup  of  grated  cheese,  1  tablespoon- 
ful  of  sugar.  Cut  off  the  tops  of  the  tomatoes,  taking  out  the  insides 
and  draining.  After  this  chop  them  up  fine.  Whip  1  egg,  adding  salt 
and  pepper  to  the  taste.  Mix  the  egg,  chopped  tomatoes,  and  cheese 
together,  and  put  into  the  tomato  shells.  Bake  in  the  oven  for  thirty 
minute?.  When  ready  to  serve,  whip  the  other  3  eggs  and  1  table- 
spoonful  of  milk.  Scramble  them  in  butter  and  pile  on  the  top  of  the 
tomatoes.     Serve  at  once. 

Scalloped  Tomatoes. 

One  can  or  2  quarts  of  tomatoes.  Salt  and  pepper  to  the  taste. 
Make  layer  of  bread  crumbs  and  a  layer  of  tomatoes  until  the  dish  is 
filled.  On  the  top  layer  place  some  thin  slices  of  onion  and  a  little 
crumbs,  then  a  bit  of  butter.  Let  them  cook  thirty  minutes  and  serve 
hot. 

Fried  Tomatoes,  No.  1. 

Slice  the  tomatoes  an  inch  thick  and  dip  into  flour.  Fry  in  but- 
ter until  brown.     Salt  and  pepper  to  the  taste. 

Fried  Tomatoes,  No.  2. 

Slice  the  tomatoes  as  above  directed.  Dip  them  into  beaten  egg, 
then  bread  crumbs.  Fry  in  butter  and  lard,  mixed,  then  lay  on  a  platter 
and  sprinkle  with  salt  and  powdered  sugar.     Serve  hot. 

Stewed  Tomatoes. 

If  the  tomatoes  are  fresh  ones,  pour  hot  water  over  them  and  skin. 
Cut  them  up  in  a  pot  with  a  piece  of  butter.  Salt  and  pepper  to  the 
taste,  and  thicken  with  bread,  or  flour  and  water,  mixed. 

Stuffed  Tomatoes. 

Wash  6  large  tomatoes.  Cut  off  the  tops  and  scoop  out  the  insides, 
mixing  with  them  1  cup  of  bread  crumbs  and  14  cup  of  chopped  chicken 
or  fresh  pork.  Salt  and  pepper  to  the  taste.  Refill  the  skins  and  place 
the  tomatoes  in  a  pan  containing  1  cup  of  water.  Let  them  cook  for 
thirty  minutes.  Put  little  dots  of  butter  on  the  top,  before  placing  in  the 
oven. 

—  14  — 


Peas  and  Carrots. 

If  the  peas  are  fresh,  cook  them  until  half  done,  then  cut  the  car- 
rots into  small  dices,  and  mix  them  with  the  peas.  Cook  until  tender. 
Add  1  cup  of  milk  and  a  small  piece  of  butter  to  it.  Thicken  with  a  little 
Hour  and  water,  to  the  thickness  of  cream. 

Scalloped  Carrots. 

Scrape  and  wash,  then  cut  crosswise,  1  pint  of  carrots.  Put  them 
on  in  i  quar  of  water,  letting  them  boil  down  to  yz  cup  of  liquor.  Add 
3  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar,  leaving  enough  to  mix  1  teaspoonful  of 
flour.  Mix  the  flour  to  a  smooth  paste  and  thicken  the  boiling  liquor, 
after  taking  out  the  carrots.  Pour  over  the  carrots,  and  bake  until 
brown. 

Dried  Kidney  Beans. 

Pick  over  1  pint  of  beans,  wash  and  put  on  in  cold  water.  Stand 
them  where  they  will  cook  slowly.  Drop  in  a  ham  bone,  and  if  they  are 
not  salty  enough,  add  a  little  salt.     These  are  very  nice. 

Beets  Served  with  Butter. 

Boil  the  beets,  then  slice  them  while  hot.  Add  the  butter,  and  serve. 
(They  must  be  skinned  before  slicing.) 

Beets  Served  Cold. 

Boil  the  beets,  then  take  off  the  skins  and  cut  into  little  dices.  Add 
1  cup  of  vinegar,  pepper  to  the  taste,  3  teaspoonfuls  of  sugar,  2  sticks  of 
cinnamon.  Cover  and  let  them  stand  for  five  minutes.  Remove  from 
the  stove  and  put  aside  to  keep  cool  until  ready  for  use. 

Creamed  Beets. 

Let  6  small  beets  cook  for  two  hours,  then  put  cold  water  over  them, 
removing  the  skins,  and  cutting  into  little  dices.  Take  1  tablespoonful 
of  flour  and  2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  and  put  on  to  cook  a  little.  Do 
not  let  it  burn  or  even  brown.  Add  1  cup  of  milk  and  let  it  cook  two 
minutes,  stirring  constantly.     Pour  this  over  the  beets,  and  serve  hot. 

Stewed  Egg-plant. 

Prepare  the  egg-plant  as  you  would  for  frying.  Boil  1  pound  of 
pork  chops  until  tender,  then  cut  the  meat  into  small  pieces.  Make  a 
layer  in  the  pot  of  meat  then  egg-plant,  repeating  until  all  has  been  used. 
Spread  on  each  layer,  a  little  flour  and  pepper,  also  salt,  if  necessary. 
Slice  1  green  pepper,  and  put  it  on  the  top  layer,  now  cover  and  cook 
until  done.     This  is  a  very  fine  dish. 

Stuffed  Egg-plant. 

Bake  1  egg-plant  until  soft.  Cut  a  hole  through  it,  taking  out  the 
inside.  Mash  this  fine  adding  1  large  tablespoonful  of  butter,  ^4  cup  of 
cracker  crumbs,  and  salt  and  pepper  to  the  taste.  Refill  the  plant,  and 
hake  for  twenty  minutes.     Serve  hot. 

—  15  — 


Miss  Mat  Tomatoes. 

One  can  of  tomatoes,  1  pint  of  corn,  1  tablespoonful  of  butter,  1 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  2  tablespoon fuls  of  sugar.  Take  the  seeds  out  of  2 
green  peppers  and  rinse  them  off.  Slice  and  fry  them  in  a  little  of  the 
butter,  being  careful  not  to  let  them  burn.  Let  the  tomatoes  cook  for 
live  minutes,  putting  in  the  salt.  Add  the  corn  and  peppers,  and  let  it 
cook  for  five  minutes  more.     Serve  hot.     This  is  very  nice. 

Stuffed  Potatoes. 

Bake  6  large  potatoes.  When  soft,  cut  off  the  tops  and  remove  the 
insides.  Mash  with  1  tablespoonful  of  butter,  then  add  Yz  cup  of  finely 
chopped  chicken.  Refill  the  skins  and  stand  in  the  oven  for  twenty 
minutes. 

Stuffed  Potatoes  with  Onions. 

Bake  the  potatoes  and  remove  the  insides  as  stated  above.  Grate  2 
onions,  and  cream  the  juice  and  1  tablespoonful  of  butter  with  the  in- 
sides. Add  pepper  and  salt  to  the  taste.  Refill  the  skins,  and  bake 
in  the  oven  twenty  minutes. 

Potatoes  au  Gratin. 

Cut  the  potatoes  into  dices,  and  put  on  to  boil  until  tender  in  salted 
water.  When  done,  drain  off  the  water  and  make  a  white  sauce.  Stir  all 
up  together-  and  pour  into  a  greased  baking  dish,  making  a  layer  of 
potatoes  then  cheese.  Put  some  cracker  crumbs  on  the  top  layer,  and 
bake  to  a  light  brown. 

Newquarre  Potatoes. 

Peel  and  wash  4  large  potatoes.  Cut  into  odd  shapes  and 
boil  until  soft,  then  pour  off  the  water.  Mix  1  cup  of  flour,  1  egg,  salt, 
pepper,  2-3  cup  of  milk  and  1  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder.  Dip 
the  potatoes  in  the  paste,  and  fry  in  a  deep  pot  of  fat  to  a  nice  brown 

The  King  of  Potatoes. 

Peel  and  wash  6  small  or  3  large  potatoes,  and  put  on  to  cook  until 
soft.  Pour  off  the  water  when  done,  and  mash  with  a  large  piece  of 
butter.  When  cold,  add  1  egg  then  beat  hard.  Make  into  oblong  cakes, 
and  fry  in  a  deep  pot  of  fat  to  a  golden  brown. 

Scalloped   Potatoes. 

Peel,  wash,  then  slice  enough  potatoes  to  fill  the  dish  in 
which  they  are  to  be  cooked.  Place  into  layers  of  potatoes,  salt,  pepper, 
and  a  little  flour,  adding  pieces  of  butter  to  the  last  one.  Cover  with 
milk  and  bake  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 

Potato   Cakes. 

Take  2  cups  of  cold  mashed  potatoes,  adding  y2  cup  of  flour,  a  little 
pepper,  and  salt,  if  necessary,  and  make  into  round  cakes.  Be  careful 
not  to  leave  any  cracks,  for  if  you  do,  they  will  fall  apart.  Fry  brown 
in  deep  fat,  then  drain  on  brown  paper. 

—  16  — 


Riced  Potatoes. 

Peel,  wash,  and  boil  the  potatoes  in  salted  water  until  done.  Put 
through  a  potato  ricer,  and  serve  at  once  with  chopped  parsley  sprinkled 
on  top. 

Peel  large  raw  potatoes  and  cut  crosswise.  Wash  and  dry  then  fry 
slowly  until  brown.  Remove  each  piece  from  the  frying-pan  as  it  browns, 
and  lay  on  a  dish.  When  all  have  browned,  place  in  the  oven  to  stand 
until  they  soften.     Sprinkle  on  salt.     Serve  hot. 

Solid  Cakes. 

Peel  2  large  white  potatoes,  then  wash  and  dry.  Grate  them  and  mix 
with  2  eggs.  Salt  and  pepper  to  the  taste.  Make  into  thin  cakes,  and  fry 
slowly  in  butter.  If  fried  too  fast,  the  potatoes  will  not  be  done.  Serve 
with  butter. 

This  is  very  nice  for  luncheon. 

Potato  Rosque. 

Four  green  peppers,  1  pint  of  tomatoes,  Yi  cup  of  rice,  2  onions,  1 
pound  of  liverwurst,  2  large  or  \  small  potatoes.  Wash  the  peppers  and  take 
out  the  insides.  Wash  the  onions,  and  cut  them  up,  also  the  peppers. 
Now  wash  the  rice  and  put  all  on  together  with  the  tomatoes,  adding  1 
pint  of  water.  Cook  until  half  done,  then  add  the  potatoes  and  liver. 
Salt  to  the  taste,  and  let  cook  until  done.     Serve  as  a  vegetable. 

Saratoga  Chips. 

Slice  7  potatoes  very  thin  and  dry  them  off  after  washing.  Drop 
into  a  deep  pot  of  fat,  and  fry  to  a  light  brown.  Take  out  of  the  pan 
and  drain  on  browi  paper.     Salt,  and  serve  hot  or  cold. 

Creamed   Potatoes  with   Onion. 
Peel,  then  wash  3  large  or  6  small  potatoes,  and  put  on  to  boil  in 
salted  water.     When  tender,  mash  adding  a  lump  of  butter  and  cream. 
Grate   1   large  onion   in  the  potato,  creaming  until  light.     Put  in   some 
salt,  if  needed. 

White  Potatoes. 
Bake  the  potatoes  in  their  jackets  until  soft.     Remove  from  the  oven. 
Cut  straight,  then  crosswise.     Squeeze  with  the  fingers.     They  will  burst. 
Brush  with  butter,  and  serve. 

French  Fried  Potatoes. 
Peel  then  wash  the  potatoes,  cutting  into  long  strips  and  drying.     Fry 
in  a  deep  pan  of  fat  to  a  brown.     Remove  from  the  pan  when  done,  and 
drain  on  brown  paper.     Serve  hot. 

Potato  Groth. 
Peel  6  large  potatoes.  Wash  and  cut  5  as  for  French  fried,  but  large  and 
put  in  a  pot  of  salted  water,  split  the  sixth  potato  into  three  parts  and  lay  it  on 
top  of  the  others  to  boil  until  just  done.  Then  pour  off  the  water,  take  out  the 
three  pieces  and  leave  the  others  covered.  Mash  the  3  pieces,  add  a  large 
tablespoonful  of  butter,  cream  until  light,  add  a  cup  of  cream  and  a  little  pars- 
ley.    Stand  over  hot  water,  but  do  not  boil  until  ready. 

Scrambled  Sweet  Potatoes,  No.  1. 
Chop  cold  boiled1  potatoes  until  fine.     Whip  3  eggs  and  Y*  cup  of  milk. 
Add  the  potatoes,  stirring  until  well  mixed.     Salt  to  the  taste,  and  serve 
hot. 

—  17  — 


Sweet  Potatoes  Fine. 

Boil  6  small  sweet  potatoes,  skinning  them  when  tender.  Brown  in 
1  tablespoonful  of  lard,  removing  them  from  the  frying-pan,  and  placing 
them  into  another.  Sprinkle  with  sugar,  and  pour  2  tablespoonfuls  of 
brandy  over  them.  Cover  tight  and  stand  aside  for  twenty  minutes. 
Serve  hot. 

Sweet  Potato  Stew. 

Peel  2  large  potatoes,  cutting  them  up,  and  putting  them  on  to  boil. 
Fry  3  slices  of  salt  pork,  and  put  the  grease  of  same  in  the  pot  with  the 
potatoes.  Pepper  and  salt  to  the  taste.  Cook  longer,  until  the  water 
becomes  thick.     Serve  hot. 

This  is  very  nice  for  lunch. 

Sweet  Potato  Boats. 

Bake  3  large  potatoes.  When  done,  remove  from  the  oven  and  take 
out  the  insides.  Mash  with  2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  and  1  teasponful 
of  sugar.  Cream  and  add  the  yolk  of  1  egg.  Put  this  back  into  the 
skins,  returning  to  the  oven  for  twenty  minutes.     Serve  hot. 

One  potato  will  make  2  portions. 

Sweet  Potatoes  Fried  Raw. 

Peel,  slice,  and  sprinkle  with  a  little  salt.     It  is  best  to  fry  them  in 
ham.  lard  or  pork  fat.     When  tender,  serve  hot. 
This  is  nice  for  lunch. 

Scalloped  Sweet  Potatoes. 

Boil  then  slice  3  large  potatoes.  Put  in  the  dish,  making  a  layer  of 
potatoes  and  a  little  sugar.  Finish  with  sugar,  then  pour  over  milk. 
Bake  for  thirty  minutes.     Serve  hot. 

Split  Sweet  Potatoes. 

Boil  3  large  potatoes  until  tender.  Split  them  and  put  into  a  pot 
which  is  standing  over  boiling  water,  to  stand  for  a  while,  adding  bits  of 
butter.     Serve  hot. 

Baked  Sweet  Potatoes. 

Wash  and  dry  your  potatoes,  then  lay  them  in  a  hot  oven  to  bake 
thirty  minutes.     Serve  hot  with  butter. 

Wonder  Sweet  Potatoes. 

Boil  6  potatoes  until  soft,  then  split  them  once.  Put  in  a  plate,  a 
cup  of  granulated  sugar,  and  dip  the  potatoes  in  it.  Fry  in  a  buttered 
pan,  being  careful  not  to  let  them  burn.  The  sugar  forms  the  brown. 
Don't  use  too  much  butter.  Place  in  a  double  boiler  to  keep  hot  until 
ready  to  serve. 

They  are  very  nice  for  dinner. 

Potato  Marbles. 

Take  raw  potatoes  and  peel  them.  Wash,  dry,  then  cut  into  little 
balls.     Fry  in  deep  fat  to  a  light  brown  color.     Serve  with  fish  entrees. 

—  18  — 


German  Fried  Potatoes. 

Slice  cold  boiled  potatoes  crosswise,  and  fry  in  a  little  butter  until 
brown. 

Sweet  Potato  Biscuits. 

Two  eggs,  3  cups  of  flour,  V/2  cups  of  potatoes,  3  teaspoonfuls  of 
baking  powder,  1  teaspoonful  of  salt,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  2  gills 
of  milk.  Boil  the  potatoes  until  soft.  Mix  the  flour  and  powder  to- 
gether. Beat  the  eggs  until  light.  Mash  the  potatoes  fine,  and  stir  in  the 
milk  and  eggs.  Add  the  flour  to  this.  Roll  out  an  inch  thick,  and  cut 
with  a  biscuit  cutter.     Bake  twenty-three  minutes. 

This  amount  will  make  27  biscuits. 

Scrambled  Sweet  Potatoes  No.  2. 

Use  potatoes  that  have  been  freshly  cooked.  When  they  have  boiled 
until  tender,  peel  them  and  chop  fine.  Put  into  a  pan  with  2  tablespoon- 
fuls of  butter  and  fry  for  two  minutes.  Do  not  let  them  get  brown.  Whip 
4  eggs  with  x/>  cup  of  milk,  add  a  dash  of  pepper,  salt,  and  1  tea- 
spoonful  of  sugar.  Be  sure  to  whip  this  good.  Now  put  in  the  potatoes 
and  cook  until  the  eggs  have  set.     Serve  hot. 

Parsnip  Balls. 

Put  on  3  parsnips  to  boil  until  tender.  Peel  and  mash  with  1  table- 
spoonful  of  butter.  Cream  them  well,  and  add  2  tablespoonfuls  of  flour 
and  y2  tablespoonful  of  baking  powder.  Add  1  egg  and  cream  good  to- 
gether. Make  into  balls,  and  fry  in  deep  fat  to  a  golden  brown.  Serve 
hot. 

Scalloped  Parsnips.. 

Boil  3  large  parsnips  until  tender.  Peel  and  slice,  filling  a  quart 
dish  2-3  full.  Beat  together  2  eggs  and  2  cups  of  milk.  Add  a  pinch  of 
salt,  and  pour  over  the  parsnips.  Stand  the  dish  in  a  pan  of  water,  and 
cook  until  set  and  a  light  brown  color.     Serve  hot. 

Fried  Parsnips. 

Boil  as  many  parsnips  as  you  like  until  tender.  Peel  and  cut  the 
parsnips  crossways.  Dip  in  a  batter  made  with  1  egg,  Vi  cup  of  flour, 
1  gill  of  milk,  y2  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  and  a  little  salt.  Dip 
each  piece  in  the  batter,  and  fry  in  deep  fat.  Serve  hot.  This  is  very 
nice  for  dinner. 

Asparagus. 

Cut  off  the  ends  and  tie  together.  Put  on  to  boil  twenty  minutes. 
Serve  with  a  white  sauce  or  with  2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  y2  cup  of 
milk  heated  together,  but  not  allowed  to  boil.     Pour  over  the  asparagus. 

Potato  Not-to. 

Four  green  peppers,  1  pint  of  tomatoes,  }4  cup  of  rice,  2  onions, 
Y2  pound  of  liver-wurst.  Remove  seeds,  and  cut  up  the  peppers,  then  fry 
them  with  the  onions.  Don't  let  them  brown.  Remove  from  the  pan, 
and  put  into  a  pot  with  the  tomatoes  and  2  cups  of  water.  _  Salt  and 
pepper,  then  add  the  rice  and  potatoes  which  are  to  be  cut  into  dices. 
A  small  piece  of  butter  may  also  be  put  in.  Allow  to  cook  slow  until 
all  is  done,  then  skin  the  liver-wurst,  Drop  into  pot  until  it  is  ready.  Serve 
hot  as  a  side  dish. 

—  19- 


Squash. 

Take  a  small  squash  and  peel  it,  removing  the  seeds.  Put  on  to 
boil  in  salted  water,  until  tender.  Take  out  of  the  pot,  pressing  out  all 
the  water.     Mash  fine,  adding  salt,  pepper,  and  butter.     Serve  hot. 

Mangled  Onions. 

Peel  and  wash  6  large  onions,  letting  them  boil  until  tender,  in  salted 
water.  Pour  off  the  water,  and  set  aside  to  keep  hot.  Make  a  sauce. 
Take  2  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  and  2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and  put  it  in 
a  pan  over  the  fire  to  cook  for  five  minutes.  Do  not  let  it  brown.  Add  1 
pint  of  milk,  allowing  it  to  cook  three  minutes.  Place  the  onions  in  a 
dish,  and  pour  over  the  sauce.  Cook  thirty  minutes  in  a  slow  oven. 
Serve  hot. 

Onions. 

Peel  and  wash  8  large  onions,  and  put  them  on  to  boil  until  tender. 
Make  a  sauce.  Put  in  the  pan  2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  1  tablespoon- 
ful  of  flour,  salt  and  pepper  to  the  taste,  and  let  it  brown.  Add  1  cup  of 
vinegar  and  water  mixed.  Cook  until  it  becomes  the  thickness  of  cream, 
then  put  in  1  teaspoonful  of  sugar.     Pour  over  the  onions  and  serve  hot. 

Cauliflower. 
Remove  the  green,  and  stand  aside  in  cold  water  until  ready  for  use. 
Boil  twenty  minutes  or  until  done.  Depends  on  the  size  of  the  cauli- 
flower how  long  it  has  to  boil  before  it  is  done.  Serve  with  a  drawn 
butter  sauce,  after  draining  off  the  water.  The  sauce  can  be  made  with 
Yz  cup  of  milk  and  a  piece  of  butter. 

Baked    Cucumbers. 

Six  medium  size  cucumbers.  Peel  and  split,  taking  out  the  insides. 
Chop  this  fine,  adding  l/2  cup  of  bread  crumbs  and  a  large  tablespoonful 
of  butter.  Salt  and  pepper  to  the  taste.  Add  to  this  2  beaten  eggs. 
Stuff  the  cucumbers,  tying  them  together.  Roll  in  beaten  egg,  then 
cracker  meal,  and  lay  in  a  pan  with  1  pint  of  water.  Put  a  piece  of 
butter  on  top  of  each.  Baste  occasionally,  cooking  in  a  slow  oven,  one 
hour.     Serve  hot. 

Fried  Cucumbers. 

Peel  the  cucumbers  then  dip  them  first  in  beaten  egg,  and  next 
cracker  crumbs.  Fry  very  crisp.  (They  must  be  cut  into  thin  pieces.) 
Sprinkle  over  a  little  salt  and  pepper,  and  dust  with  a  little  powdered 
sugar.  Squeeze  on  a  little,  lemon  juVce  and  serve  hot,  or  they  may  be 
served  cold  on  lettuce  leaves,  with  dressing.' 

Parsnips  Creamed. 

i 

Two  small  par-nips  peeled  and  cut  into  dices.  Cover  over  with  water 
and  boil  until  tender.  Leave  about  1  cup  of  liquor  in  the  pot,  and  add  1 
tablesponful  of  butter,  a  very  little  salt,  and  1  cup  of  milk.  Cook  to  the 
thickness  of  cream.     Serve  hot. 

Sauerkraut. 

Take  1  pound  of  fresh  corned  pork  and  wash  it.  Scrape  off  the  rine 
and  rinse  well,  then  put  it  on  to  boil.  When  nearly  done,  add  the 
sauerkraut,  letting  it  cook  for  thirty  minutes.  Serve  with  frank- 
furters. 

—  20  — 


Parsnips  Creamed  with  Oysters. 

Peel  and  cut  up  the  parsnips.  Wash  and  put  on  in  salted  water  to 
boil  until  tender.  Pour  off  the  water  and  add  1  cup  of  milk,  then  put  in 
the  oysters.  When  they  have  curved  up  on  the  ends,  thicken  with  flour 
and  water,  mixed.  Salt  and  pepper  and  put  in  a  piece  of  butter.  Serve 
hot. 

To  Cook  Spinach. 

Pull  apart,  and  wash  thoroughly  until  there  is  no  grit  left  in  the  bot- 
tom of  the  pan.  Put  the  spinach  on  in  boiling  water,  letting  it  cook 
for  twenty-five  minutes.  When  done,  drain  and  chop  fine.  Add  some 
butter  and  serve  with  hard  boiled  eggs. 

Mock  Spinach. 

One  quart  of  spinach,  3  large  carrots,  3  onions.  Wash  the  spinach, 
cutting  all  up  together  and  boiling  until  tender.  Salt  to  the  taste,  add- 
ing a  little  red  pepper.  Drain  off  the  water,  and  put  in  a  spoonful  of 
butter.     Chop  line  and  serve  hot. 

Spinach   Pudding. 

Use  cooked  spinach,  2  eggs,  2  cups  of  milk,  and  salt  and  pepper  to 
the  taste.  Mix  the  eggs,  milk,  salt  and  pepper,  and  put  half  of  it  at  the 
bottom  of  the  pan.  Now  put  in  the  spinach,  then  pour  over  the  rest  of 
the  mixture  and  bake  until  set.     Serve  as  a  hot  vegetable. 

Spinach   Creamed. 

Wash  and  cook  the  spinach  until  tender.  Grind  it  line,  then  add  1 
cup  of  milk  or  cream  and  butter. 

Take  spinach  that  has  been  cooked  and  lay  it  in  a  buttered  dish. 
Place  eggs  on  top,  then  bake  until  the  eggs  have  set.  Serve  hot  with  a 
bit   of  butter. 

Boiled  Onions. 

Peel  and  wash  6  large  onions,  being  careful  not  to  break  the  skins. 
Let  them  boil  one  hour  or  until  tender.  When  done  pour  off  the  water. 
Melt  2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and  Yz  cup  of  milk  together  with  a  dash 
of  salt  and  pepper.     Pour  this  over  the  onions,  and  serve  hot. 

Fried  Onions. 

One  quart  of  onions,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  or  pork  fat.  Put 
this  in  the  pan.  Peel  the  onions,  then  wash  and  slice  them  into  the  pan. 
Add  1  gill  of-  water.  Cover  tight,  and  let  cook  until  tender.  Uncover 
and  add  salt,  pepper,  and  1  tablespoonful  of  sugar.  Cook  again  with  the 
cover  off  until  dry,  but  not  too  dry.     Serve  hot. 

FOWL,  STUFFINGS,   Etc. 

Fricassee  Chicken. 

Boil  the  chicken  whole,  or  cut  up,  putting  it  on  in  salted  water. 
When  it  is  done,  skim  off  Vi  cup  of  grease,  and  let  it  get  cold.  Cream  the 
grease  and  2  tablespoonfuls  of  flour.  Take  enough  of  the  broth  to  make 
gravy  in  a  small  pan,  and  thicken  it  with  the  flour,  but  do  not  let  it  boil 
Serve  on   fresh  biscuit  or  with   dropped  dumplings. 

—  21  — 


Cold  Mince  Juice  or  Turkey. 

Pick  over  the  turkey  that  has  been  left,  fretting-  all  from  the  bones. 
Put  1  tablespoonful  of  butter,  and  1  tablespoonful  of  flour  into  the  pan  to 
brown.  Now  add  the  turkey,  letting  it  all  cook  until  it  gets  thick.  Put 
in  the  turkey  with  a  little  salt  and  pepper,  and  let  it  cook  about  five 
minutes  more,  if  necessary.     Serve  on  toast  or  biscuit. 

Broiled  Chicken. 

Pick  over  the  chicken,  then  singe  it,  to  get  off  all  the  hairs.  Wash 
it  well,  then  dry.  Tut  it  on  a  broiler,  and  let  it  stay  until  it  gets  a  nice- 
brown  color,  then  turn  over  and  brown  the  uthtr  side.  Be  careful  not 
to  let  it  burn.  Salt  and  pepper,  and  put  a  large  piece  of  butter  on  top, 
placing  it  in  the  oven  for  fifteen  minutes.  Serve  hot  with  whipped 
cream. 

Curried    Chicken. 

Pick,  disjoint,  and  wash  the  chicken.  Fry  it  brown  in  butter,  1 
tablespoonful  of  vinegar,  1  teaspoonful  of  curry  powder,  and  2  sliced 
onions,  salt  and  pepper  to  the  taste.  Pour  over  the  chicken  1  pint  of 
water,  covering  it  tight,  and  placing  to  one  side  to  cook  slowly  for  one 
hour.  Serve  with  hard  boiled  eggs  and  chopped  parsley.  Thicken  the 
gravy. 

Fried  Chicken. 

After  disjointing  the  chicken,  wash  it  thoroughly  and  put  it  into 
a  pan,  sprinkling  over  a  handful  of  salt,  anct  sprinkling  on  pepper.  Stir 
around,  until  the  salt  has  gone  through.  Into  another  pan  put  1  pint 
of  flour,  then  4  or  5  pieces  of  chicken.  Put  1  cup  of  lard  into  the  frying 
pan.  and  when  it  is  hot,  put  in  the  pieces  of  chicken,  after  dipping  them 
in  the  flour.  Cook  slowly  until  brown,  then  put  into  a  pan,  covering  it, 
and  let  it  steam  for  twenty  minutes.     Make  a  gravy  and  serve. 

Jellied  Chicken. 

Boil  the  chicken  until  it  drops  apart,  adding  a  very  little  salt,  a^ 
there  will  be  but  little  water  left.  Take  the  chicken  out  of  the  pot,  and 
after  removing  the  bones,  return  it,  adding  1  tablespoonful  of  vinegar. 
Let  it  cook  until  it  has  about  2  cups  of  liquor,  then  turn  into  a  dish 
large  enough  to  hold  the  meat  and  liquor.  Place  a  board  on  top  of 
this  with  a  weight,  and  stand  aside  in  a  cold  place  for  at  least  twelve 
hours.      Serve    sliced. 

It  is  a  nice  dish  for  luncheon  or  tea. 

Chicken  Pot  Pie,  No.  1. 

After  disjointing  and  washing  the  chicken,  put  it  cuf^nh  a  pot  of 
salted  water  to  cook  until  tender.  Make  a  puffed  pastel-rolling  it  out 
thin  and  cutting  into  little  squares.  Make  a  layer  in  the  pan  of  paste, 
then  chicken  with  a  dash  of  pepper  on  top,  doing  this  until  all  has  been 
used.  Add  the  liquor,  and  cover,  letting  it  cook  for  twenty  minutes. 
Do  not  let  it  burn. 

Chicken  Pot  Pie,  No.  2. 

Cook  the  chicken  as  directed  in  No.  1,  only  add  dumplings,  and 
thicken  the  gravy. 

—  22  — 


Broiled  Quails. 

Pick  the  quails,  wash  and  dry.  Broil  to  a  nice  brown,  salting  and 
peppering  to  the  taste.  Lay  bits  of  butter  over  them  and  put  into  the 
oven  for  a  while.     Serve,  garnished,  on  toast. 

Chicken  Croquettes. 

Two  cups  of  chicken,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  1  tablespoonful  of 
baking  powder,  1  egg.  Mix  the  flour  with  the  ground  chicken  and 
baking  powder,  salting  and  peppering  to  the  taste.  Add  4  tablespoon- 
fuls of  milk,  mixing  and  shaping  the  croquettes  with  the  hands.  You 
can  shape  them  easier,  if  you  wet  the  hands  in  cold  water.  Fry  in  hot 
grease. 

This  quantity  will  make  7  croquettes. 

Welsh  Rarebit. 

One-half  pound  of  cheese,  1  tablespoonful  of  butter,  1  tablespoon- 
ful of  catsup,  a  dash  of  cayenne  pepper,  1  pinch  of  mustard,  1  salt- 
spoonful  of  salt.  Grate  the  cheese  and  add  with  the  other  ingredients. 
Put  into  a  double  boiler  to  cook  until  thick.  Toast  some  bread  to  a 
golden  brown  color,  and  butter.     Serve  the  welsh  rarebit  on  toast. 

•     Turkey  Stuffing. 

One  quart,  of  bread  crumbs,  1  large  tablespoonful  of  butter,  a  little 
salt  and  pepper,  1  tablespoonful  of  thyme.  Mix  all  thoroughly.  It  is 
now   ready   for   use. 

Potato  Stuffing. 

Two  large  potatoes,  peel,  wash,  and  put  on  to  cook  until  soft. 
Mash  with  2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  creaming  well.  When  cold,  beat 
in  Yi  cup  of  milk  until  light,  now  add  1  egg  and  whip  again.  Put  in 
some  onion  juice  and  salt  and  pepper  to  the  taste.  It  is  now  ready 
for  use. 

Stuffing  for  Goose. 

One  quart  of  bread  crumbs,  2  onions  chopped  fine,  1  teaspoonful 
of  thyme,  salt  and  pepper  to  the  taste,  and  a  small  piece  of  butter. 
Mix  together,  and  it  is  ready  for  use. 

ROASTS,  FRIES,  Etc. 

Roast  Rabbit. 

Clean  the  rabbit,  splitting  it  down  the  front,  wash.  Salt,  and  pepper 
l/2  pound  of  sausage  meat,  and  mix  with  sufficient  bread  crumbs  to  make 
a  dressing  for  stuffing  the  rabbit.  Pin  the  rabbit  together,  and  roast  two 
hours,  basting  often.     Make  a  gravy,  and  serve  hot. 

Hamburger   Roll. 

Add  to  2  pounds  of  hamburger  steak,  1  onion,  1  tablespoonful,  each, 
of  thyme,  parsley,  chopped  fine,  sage,  flour,  and  salt  and  pepper  to  the 
taste.  Shape  into  a  large  roll  and  lay  in  the  pan  with  1  pint  of  water, 
adding  a  piece  of  butter.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven,  thirty-five  minutes.  Serve 
with  a  thickened  gravy. 

—  23  — 


Steak  Flammer. 

Get  two  steaks  of  the  same  size,  1  raw  potato,  1  cup  of  bread 
crumbs,  1  large  tablespoonful  of  butter,  1  green  pepper,  1  onion.  Chop 
the  onion  and  pepper  together,  also  the  potato.  Mix  with  the  butter 
and  bread  crumbs,  and  add  a  little  salt.  Put  this  in  the  steaks,  pin- 
ning them  together  to  hold  the  filling.  Put  in  a  pan  with  3  cups  of 
water  and  1  teaspoonful  of  curry  powder,  and  cook  one  hour  and  a  half, 
basting    constantly.     When    done,    serve    hot    with    Mexican    dressing. 

Broiled  Beef  Kidney. 

Two  kidneys,  split,  and  run  a  toothpick  through  them.  Wasii, 
dry,  then  lay  on  an  iron  and  broil.  Salt  and  pepper  and  put  them  in  the 
oven  in  a  pan   for  fifteen   minutes.     Serve  with  butter.     Very  nice. 

Smothered  Beef  Kidney. 

Split  the  kidney  and  take  out  the  hard  parts.  Wash,  then  salt 
and  pepper.  Dip  it  in  flour  and  put  in  a  pan  containing  1  tablespoonful 
of  drippings  to  fry,  but  do  not  let  it  brown.  Cover  it  and  stand  it 
where  it  will  only  steam  done,  which  will  take  about  twenty  minutes. 
Serve  hot. 

To   Broil  a  Steak. 

Put  a  steak  on  the  broiler,  turning  it  constantly,  so  it  won't  burn. 
When  brown,  place  on  a  dish  with  bits  of  butter  on  top.  Place  in  the 
oven  until  the  butter  melts.     It  is  now  ready  to  serve. 

Steak  and  Onions. 

One  quart  of  onions,  peeled,  washed,  and  cut  up  in  a  frying-pan  with 
a  large  spoonful  of  butter.  Let  this  stand  on  the  back  of  the  stove,  and 
add  salt  and  pepper,  also  a  saltspoonful  of  sugar.  Now  cover  to  cock 
until  tender.   Broil  your  steak,  and  serve  hot  with  the  onions  layed  over  it. 

Beef  Balls. 

One  pound  of  ground  beef,  J^  pound  of  fresh  pork.  Salt  and 
pepper  to  the  taste.  Now  make  into  balls  or  cakes,  and  fry  until  well 
done.  If  a  little  sage  is  mixed  with  it,  before  shaping,  you  will  find 
that  they  taste   much   better. 

To  Broil  a  Veal  Cutlet. 

Rub  soft  lard  over  the  cutlet,  and  lay  it  over  the  broiler,  broiling 
each  side  until  brown.  Salt  and  pepper,  and  place  in  the  oven  until 
ready  to  use,  placing  bits  of  butter  on  top. 

Smothered  Veal  Cutlet. 

Broil  it  quickly,  and  lay  in  a  pan.  Cut  up  onions  and  put  over  it, 
also  Yi  cup  of  tomato  juice,  J/2  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  and  salt  and  pepper 
to  the  taste.     Cover,  and  let  stand  in  the  oven  until  the  onions  are  done. 

Veal  Cutlet  Fried. 

Gash  the  sides  and  ends,  and  salt  well.  Dip  in  cracker  meal,  and  fry 
in  hot  lard.  Also  have  1  large  spoonful  of  water.  Cover  and  stand  in 
the  oven  fifteen  minutes. 

—  24  — 


Veal  Cutlet  Fried  in  Egg. 

Salt  and  pepper  the  cutlet.  Beat  up  1  egg  and  after  dipping  the  cut- 
let in  same,  put  it  in  the  cracker  meal.  Fry  in  ^2  lard  and  l/z  butter 
until  a  nice  brown.     Fry  slowly,  as  it  will  burn  very  quickly. 

Fried  Veal  Chops. 

Salt  and  pepper  the  chops,  and  dip  them  in  beaten  egg,  then  cracker 
meal.  Put  2  tablespoonfuls  of  lard  or  white  drippings  into  the  frying- 
pan  to  get  hot.  Now  lay  in  the  chops  and  cook  slowly  until  brown,  as 
veal  must  be  well  done.     Serve  hot,  plain,  or  with  gravy  or  sauce. 

Fried  Liver  with  Gravy. 

Take  1  pound  of  liver,  sliced,  and  remove  the  skin.  Salt  and  pepper 
it,  then  dip  it  into  flour.  Fry  some  salt  pork,  then  place  the  liver  in 
same  to  cook  until  brown.  Take  the  liver  out,  and  put  1  tablespoon- 
ful  of  flour  in  the  pan,  letting  this  get  brown.  Now  add  1  pint  of  hot 
water,  salt  and  pepper  to  the  taste.  Put  the  liver  back  into  the  pan  to 
cook  until  very  tender.     Serve  with   the  salt  pork. 

This  is   very   nice. 

Liverwurst   Served  with   Rice. 

One  cup  of  rice,  H  pound  of  liverwurst.  Cook  the  rice  in  salted 
water  until  soft.  Drain  off  the  water,  and  mix  with  1  tablespoonful  of 
butter,  and  pepper  to  the  taste.  Skin  the  liverwurst,  and  place  in  the 
frying-pan  with  butter.  Stir  it  up,  mixing  in  the  rice,  and  let  it  fry  just 
a  little.     Fry  a  tomato  and  serve  it  on  top.     Garnish  with  parsley. 

This  is  very  nice  for  breakfast  or  lunch. 

Broiled   Pork   Chops. 
Lay  on  the  broiling  irons  to  cook  until  brown  on  both  sides.     Put 
into  a  pan,  and  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper.     Cover,  and  let  stand  in 
the  oven  for  twenty  minutes.     Serve  hot. 

To  Roast  Beef. 

The  length  of  time  for  it  to  cook,  depends  upon  the  size  of  the 
meat.  Four  ribs  require  two  and  a  half  hours,  in  a  good  oven.  It  can 
be  served  with  the   dish  gravy,  or  thickened  gravy. 

Beef  Olive. 

Roast  4  ribs  of  beef  one  and  a  half  hours.  Do  not  let  it  get  brown. 
Take  it  out  and  cut  the  ribs  apart.  Return  the  beef  to  the  oven,  adding  ]/z  cup 
of  sherry,  1  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  and  cut  up  and  put  over  beef  x/z  cup  of  olives. 
Let  all  steam  for  half  an  hour,  the  thicken  the  gravy  with  a  little  flour. 

Warmed  Over  Roast  Beef. 

Put  into  a  frying-pan,  1  tablespoonful  of  butter,  1  teasponful  of 
flour,  1  teaspoonful  of  curry  powder,  y2  cup  of  water,  and  salt  and 
pepper  to  the  taste.  Slice  and  put  in  the  pan,  allowing  it  to  cook  ten 
minutes.     Serve  hot. 

This  is  very  nice  for  lunch. 

Mince  Beef  on  Toast. 

Chop  or  cut  roast  beef  very  fine,  and  put  it  in  1  pint  of  water  (if 
you  have  1  pint  of  meat).  Salt  and  pepper  to  the  taste,  and  put  a  piece 
of  butter  in  the  pan.  Let  it  cook  until  nearly  dry,  then  sprinkle  in  a  lit- 
tle flour,  but   don't  thicken  much.     Serve  on  toast. 

—  25  — 


Pot  Roast. 

Wipe  off  the  meat  and  salt  and  pepper.  Put  it  in  the  pot,  being: 
sure  to  let  all  sides  brown  evenly.  Slice  1  large  or  2  small  onions  in 
the  pan  and  fry  brown.  Add  to  the  meat,  also  1  bay  leaf.  Half  cover 
with  water,  then  cover  tightly  and  let  it  cook  until  the  meat  is  tender. 
Thicken  the  gravy,  and  serve  hot. 

To   Boil   Beef  Tongue. 

Wash  a  6  pound  tongue  and  put  in  the  potr  covering  it  with  cold 
water.  Let  it  cook  an  hour  and  seventeen  minutes  from  the  time  it  be- 
gins to  boil.  It  must  boil  steadily,  or  else  it  won't  get  done  in  this 
time.  When  done,  let  it  get  cold  in  the  water  it  was  cooked  in.  Skin 
and  serve  cold  or  hot  with  mustard. 

Corned    Beef    Balls. 

One  pint  of  corned  beef,  ground.  Peel,  wash,  and  boil  1  large  potato 
until  tender.  Drain  the  water  off  when  it  is  done,  and  mash  with  1 
large  tablespoonful  of  butter,  salt  and  pepper.  Cream  it  light,  then  add 
1  egg.  Now  put  in  the  beef  and  make  into  balls.  Rub  a  very  little  flour 
on  the  hands  and  put  it  on  the  balls.  Fry  in  deep  fat  to  a  light  brown 
color.     Serve  hot. 

Corned  Beef  Croquettes. 

To  I  pint  of  corned  beef  and  1  onion  ground,  add  1  egg,  1  table- 
spoonful  of  flour,  and  l/z  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder.  Add  enough 
water  to  make  it  soft  enough  to  shape  into  croquettes.  Fry  in  deep  fat. 
Serve   hot. 

Corned    Beef  Hash. 

Cook  i  pound  of  corned  beef,  and  let  it  get  cold;  also  cook  4  large  pota- 
toes, and  let  them  get  cold.  Grind  all  together  with  2  large  onions,  and  put 
the  meat  into  a  pan  with  a  littld  drippings,  adding  1  cup  of  milk,  or  beef 
water,  or  plain  water.     Cook  twenty  minutes.     Serve  hot. 

Lamb  Croquettes,  No.  1. 

Grind  the  lamb,  and  mix  it  with  1  egg,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  J^ 
teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  salt  and  pepper  to  the  taste,  and  just 
enough  milk  or  water  to  be  able  to  shape  the  croquettes.  Fry  in  deep 
fat.     Serve  hot. 

Lamb  Croquettes,  No.  2. 

One  cup  of  milk,  1  tablespoonful  of  flour,  adding  enough  water  to 
make  ft  thin  enough  for  pouring.  Put  in  1  piece  of  butter,  and  salt  and 
pepper  to  the  taste.  After  this  has  cooked  a  little,  stand  aside  to  cool. 
Grind  the  lamb,  and  put  it  in  the  sauce.  Shape  it  oblong,  and  dip  in 
beaten  egg,  then  cracker  crumbs.     Now  fry  in  deep  fat.     Serve  hot. 

To  Fry  Lamb  Chops. 

The  chops  should  be  cut  an  inch  thick.  Put  1  teaspoonful  of  lard 
into  the  frying-pan,  and  when  hot,  lay  the  chops  in  to  brown.  While  one 
side  is  browning,  salt  the  other,  but  do  not  pepper,  as  it  changes  the 
flavor  of  the  meat.     Keep  hot  until  ready. 

—  26  — 


Lamb  Chops  with  Peas. 

Broil  or  fry  the  chops.  Cook  the  peas,  leaving  a  very  little  liquor. 
When  the  peas  are  done,  place  the  chops  in  the  centre  of  a  platter,  and 
pour  the  peas  around  them.     Garnish  with  parsley.     Serve  hot. 

Fricassee  Tripe. 

Wash  1  pound  of  tripe,  and  cut  it  into  little  dices.  Put  it  on  to 
cook  for  thirty  minutes  in  1  pint  of  water.  After  it  has  boiled,  add  a 
piece  of  butter,  then  pour  in  1  cup  of  milk,  allowing  it  to  cook  ten 
minutes  longer.  Thicken  with  a  little  flour  and  water,  mixed.  Salt 
and  pepper  to  the  taste,  and  serve  hot.     It  may  be  served  on  toast. 

To  Roast  Veal. 

Take  a  leg  of  veal  weighing  about  5  pounds.  Wash  it,  and  put  it 
into  a  pan  containing  2  quarts  of  water.  A  piece  this  size  will  take  one 
hour  and  twenty  minutes  to  cook  done.  The  larger  the  piece  of  meat,  the 
longer  it  takes  to  cook.  Veal  must  be  cooked  well  done.  When  it  has 
finished  cooking,  thicken  with  flour.  If  flour  has  been  put  on  top  of 
the  meat  when  placing  it  in  the  oven,  knock  it  off  until  all  the  meat  is 
brown,  then  baste.     Skim  off  the  gravy  that  it  has  made. 

Smothered  Pork  Chops. 

Salt  and  pepper  the  chops,  then  lay  in  a  pan  over  which  cut  up  an 
onion.  Sprinkle  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  over  them,  and  add  1  cup  of 
water.     Cover  and  stand  in  the  oven  until  tender.     Serve   hot. 

Fried  Pork  Chops. 

Salt  and  pepper  the  chops.  Let  the  pan  get  hot  with  some  lard  in 
it.  Rub  some  sage  until  fine,  and  add  it  to  the  chops,  frying  them  slowly 
to  a  nice  brown.  If  you  wish,  brown  a  little  flour  in  the  pan,  after 
removing  the  chops,  then  add  a  little  water,  making  a  gravy.    Serve  hot. 

Roast  Loin  of  Pork. 

Wash,  salt  and  pepper  the  meat,  and  lay  it  in  a  pan.  Put  on  the 
top  as  much  flour  as  possible,  and  add  1  quart  of  water.  Let  it  cook 
until  it  feels  tender  when  stuck  with  a  fork.  Make  a  gravy  and  serve 
hot,   or  slice   and   serve   cold. 

Roasted  Pork  Tenderloins.  -  • 

;    >'■  -  >  I 

Wash,  salt  and  pepper.  Make  a  stuffing  as  for  chicken,  putting  in 
sage  instead  of  thyme.  Fill  where  split,  and.  pin  the  sides  together. 
Lay  in  a  roasting  pan  withH  quart  of  water,  letting  it  bake  one  hour. 
When  nearly  done,  core  an  apple,  peel  it,  then  slice-over  the  top  of  the 
meat.  When  brown  and  tender,  take  the  meat  out  of  the  pan  and 
thicken  the  gravy.     Serve  hot  on  a  platter. 

Pork   Pot   Pie. 

Take  2  pounds  of  pork  chops  and  put  them  on  to  boil.  When 
nearly  done,  take  out  all  with  the  exception  of  enough  to  cover  the 
bottom  of  the  pot.  Make  a  puff  paste,  rolling  it  thin  and  cutting 
into  strips.  Put  a  layer  of  paste  and  a  layer  of  pork  until  all  is  used.  Sprinkle 
a  little  flour  on  the  top  layer.  Be  sure  to  salt  and  pepper.  This  is 
to   cook  twenty  minutes   longer.       Serve  hot.     Very  nice. 

-27  — 


Stuffed   Fresh   Harn. 

Take  a  fresh  ham  and  remove  the  bone.  Mix  up  1  cup  of  bread 
crumbs,  1  tablespoonful  of  butter,  sage,  salt  and  pepper  to  the  taste. 
Stuff  the  meat,  adding  enough  water  to  reach  the  meat.  Bake  for 
three  hours  in  a  slow  oven,  basting  constantly.  Skim  off  the  grease, 
and  make  a  thickened  gravy. 

Simer  Nar  Ham. 

Take  1  slice  of  ham  and  lay  it  in  a  pan  of  warm  water  for  ten 
minutes.  Take  it  out  and  after  drying,  cut  into  parts,  and  rub  it  over 
with  curry  powder.  Put  into  a  pan  having  some  butter  and  cook  three 
minutes  in  the  oven.  Take  out  of  the  oven,  and  break  an  egg  on  each 
piece.  Now  put  back  into  the  oven  to  remain  until  the  eggs  have  cooked. 
Baste  the  eggs.     Serve  with  gravy. 

Baked   Salt  Ham. 

Wash,  then  lay  in  a  pot  of  cold  water  to  boil  three  hours,  if  it  is 
very  large.  Take  out  of  the  pot,  and  remove  the  skin.  Now  stick  full 
of  cloves,  and  sprinkle  over  with  sugar.  Put  in  the  oven  for  thirty 
minutes   to   brown.     Serve   cold   or   hot. 

Fried  Ham  and  Eggs. 

Cut  the  ham  an  inch  thick,  and  lay  in  a  pan  of  hot  water  for  ten 
minutes.  Remove  from  the  pan  and  dry.  Now  put  a  piece  of  lard  in  the 
pan  to  get  hot,  then  put  in  the  ham  to  fry  brown,  but  not  dry.  Fry 
your  eggs  and  lay  on  top  of  the  ham.  Garnish  with  parsley  and  serve 
hot. 

To  Fry  Sausages. 

First  wipe  the  meat  off  with  a  clean,  damp  cloth.  Stick  full  of 
holes,  to  keep  them  from  bursting  when  cooking.  Lay  in  a  cold  frying- 
pan  to  cook  slowly  until  done.  A  gravy  can  be  made  to  serve  with 
them,  if  desired,  by  browning  a  little  flour,  and  adding  hot  water,  after 
removing  the  sausages.     Salt  and  pepper  to  the  taste. 

Memorandum    Stew. 

One  pound  of  pork  chops,  ^>  pound  of  lean  beef,  2  green  peppers,  2 
large  or  3  small  sweet  potatoes,  Vz  cup  of  tomatoes,  1  cup  of  corn,  2 
quarts  of  water,  1  teaspoonful  of  sugar.  Wash  the  meats,  and  put  them 
on  to  boil.  When  they  are  half  done,  add  the  vegetables,  cooking  until 
tender.  Put  in  drop  dumplings,  and  cover  the  pot,  allowing  it  to  cook 
fifteen  minutes.  Do  not  remove  the  cover  until  the  dumplings  are  done, 
for  they  will  fall  if  you  do. 

Souse. 

One  hog  head  and  4  hog  ears.  Singe  and  scrape  off  all  the  hair. 
Split  and  clean  well,  washing  it.  Put  on  to  boil  1  pint  of  vinegar,  3 
quarts  of  water,  4  bay  leaves,  a  little  salt.  Let  the  meat  cook  until  it 
falls  apart,  then  take  out  of  the  pot,  removing  all  the  bones.  Return 
to  the  pot,  and  let  it  boil  down  to  1  pint  of  water,  then  it  will  jell.  Just 
before  removing  from  the  stove,  add  Vz  cup  of  sugar.  Turn  into  a  pan,, 
not  a  tin  one.     Serve  cold,  sliced. 

—  28—  i 


Frankfurters  Boiled. 

Wash  off,  then  place  in  a  pan  with  enough  water  to  cover  them. 
Let  them  boil  five  minutes,  then  stand  aside  in  the  water  to  keep  hot 
until  ready  for  use. 

EGGS  AND  OMELETS 

To  Boil  an  Egg. 

A  soft  boiled  egg  must  have  boiling  water.  Drop  the  egg  in  and 
let  it  boil  three  minutes.  The  white  will  be  a  jell,  and  the  yolk  will  be 
hot.     It  will  be  a  trifle  harder,  if  boiled  half  minute  longer. 

A  Very  Soft  Boiled  Egg. 

The  water  must  be  boiling.  Drop  in  the  egg,  and  let  it  boil  two 
minutes.     The  white  will  not  be  quite  a  jell,  but  the  yolk  will  be  hot. 

A  Hard  Boiled  Egg. 

The  water  must  be  boiling,  and  if  allowed  to  cook  ten  minutes,  the 
yolk  will  be  mealy. 

Poached  Egg. 

Put  on  a  pan  half  full  of  water,  salted.  Break  the  egg  in  a  dish, 
and  slip  into  the  hot  water.  Baste  until  the  white  has. set.  Take  out 
with  a  skimmer,  slip  on  buttered  toast,  or  it  can  be  served  just  as  it  is. 

Egg  Beon. 

Four  eggs,  2  cups  of  milk,  1  cup  of  grated  cheese.  Whip  the  eggs 
until  light.  Mix  starch  in  a  little  milk,  stirring  in  the  eggs.  Add  the 
rest  of  the  milk,  a  pinch  of  baking  powder,  and  then  the  cheese.  Put 
it  in  a  baking  dish,  and  let  cook  until  set  and  brown.  Serve  immediately. 
This  is  a  nice  breakfast  dish. 

Egg  Meney. 

Four  eggs,  V2  cup  of  rice,  3  large  onions.  Slice  and  fry  the  onions. 
Cook  the  rice  until  tender.  Mix  all  together.  Salt  and  pepper  to 
taste.  Use  black  pepper.  Scramble  the  eggs,  putting  a  layer  of  each 
in  a  baking  dish.  Mix  1  egg  and  y2  cup  of  milk  and  pour  it  over  the 
top,  then   set  the  dish  in  the  oven  to  brown  quickly.     Serve  hot. 

Poached  Eggs  with  Tomato   Sauce. 

Take  1  pint  of  tomato  juice  after  it  has  been  strained  and  add  salt 
and  pepper  to  taste,  also  2  teaspoonfuls  of  sugar.  Cook  three  minutes, 
then  break  the  eggs  in  a  saucer.  Slip  in  the  sauce,  basting  all  the 
time  while  they  cook.  When  done,  serve  with  a  little  of  the  sauce 
poured  over  them.     They  are  very  nice  for  luncheon. 

Shirred  Eggs. 

Grease  the  dish  that  they  are  to  be  served  in.  Break  the  eggs, 
sprinkling  salt  on  them,  and  a  small  piece  of  butter.  Stand  in  the 
oven  until  set.     Serve  hot. 

—  29  — 


Egg  Cups. 
Four  eggs.  Whip  the  whites  until  stiff.  Do  not  hreak  the  yolks. 
Grease  the  dish  they  are  placed  in.  They  must  be  cooked  and  served 
in  the  same  dish  or  pan.  Salt  and  pepper  the  whites,  making  four 
piles,  and  drop  the  yolks  in  the  centre.  Bake  until  done,  and  serve 
with   crisp  bacon. 

Fried  Eggs  with  Chocolate  Brown. 
Put  in  a  frying  pan,  1  tablespoonful  of  butter.     Let  it  brown,  but  not 
burn.     Break  in  an  egg,  basting  it  with  the  brown  butter.     When  car- 
ried to  the  platter,  salt  and  grate  nutmeg  over  the  top.     Serve  hot. 

Creamed  Eggs. 
Three  of  6  eggs  boiled  hard,  and  allowed  to  cool.  Make  a  sauce 
with  1  pint  of  milk,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter.  Put  on  the  milk,  and 
cream  the  butter  with  1  tablespoonful  of  flour.  Stir  in  the  milk.  Cut 
4  thin  slices  of  bread,  and  toast  it  to  a  light  brown  color.  Dip  them  in 
the  sauce,  and  lay  on  the  platter.  Slice  the  eggs,  taking  out  the  yolks. 
Put  the  whites  on  toast,  and  grate  the  yolks  on  top.  Sprinkle  chopped 
parsley  on  the  yolks,  and  serve  hot.     This  is  nice  for  luncheon  or  tea. 

To  Fry  Eggs. 
Put  in  a  pan  1  tablespoonful  of  lard.     When  it  becomes  hot,  break 
the  egg  in  a  dish,  then  slip  it  into  the  hot  pan.     Baste  with  the  hot  lard 
until   the  egg  is  set.     Do  not  let  it  brown.   If  you  like,  turn  it  over  to 
cook  on  the  other  side. 

Scrambled   Eggs. 
Four  eggs,  1  gill  of  milk,  salt  to  taste.     Whip  the  eggs  until  light, 
then  add  the  milk.     Place  a  piece  of  butter  in  the  pan,  and  turn  in  the 
eggs.     Don't  have   the  pan  too  hot,  and  shake  it  all  the  time  the  eggs 
are  cooking,  and  stir  also.     Serve  hot. 

Omelet. 

Four  eggs,  ^  cup  of  milk,  1  teaspoonful  of  flour,  2  tablespoonfuls 
of  jelly.  Mix  the  flour  and  milk  together  until  all  the  lumps  have  gone. 
Whip  the  whites  of  the  eggs  until  stiff,  and  the  yolks  until  very  light. 
Put  the  yolks  with  the  milk,  and  whip  in  the  jelly,  adding  2  drops 
of  vanilla.  Fold  in  the  whites  good,  and  pour  into  a  well  greased 
pudding  dish.     Bake  until  firm.     Serve  at  once. 

Omelette— (Plain.) 

Four  eggs,  l/>  cup  of  water,  salt  to  taste.  Whip  the  eggs.  Have 
the  pan  ready  to  turn  in  the  eggs,  then  shake,  lifting  the  egg  up  to  let 
the  soft  part  run  under.  Now  fold  it,  and  cut  in  small  pieces,  just 
large  enough  to  roll  in  a  lettuce  leaf.  Lay  on  an  entrees  plate,  and 
serve   cold   with    boiled    dressing. 

Omelette  with  Tomato. 
First  break  the  whites  in  a  bowl,  then  whip  until  stiff.  Drop  in 
the  yolks  mixed  with  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Put  butter  in  a  large 
pan  and  turn  in  the  eggs.  Stir  until  nearly  done.  Chop  up  the  tomato, 
straining  out  the  juice.  Salt,  pepper,  and  add  a  little  sugar.  Put  in  the 
omelette,  fold,  and  place  in  the  oven  for  five  minutes  or  until  it  is  well 
set  (according  to  the  heat  of  the  oven,  for  if  it  is  not  hot,  it  will  take 
longer  than  five  minutes). 

—  30  — 


Oyster  Omelet. 

Make  an  omelet  with  3  eggs,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  milk,  and  a  little 
salt,  scant,  as  the  oysters  may  be  salty.  Whip  the  eggs,  adding  salt, 
pepper,  1  pint  of  oysters.  Put  on  to  get  hot,  but  not  to  cook,  then 
strain.  Put  a  piece  of  butter  in  the  frying-pan.  The  milk  is  also  to  be 
put  on  with  the  other  ingredients.  When  the  pan  is  hot,  turn  in  the 
mixture,  and  when  nearly  done  put  in  the  oysters  and  fold.  When 
brown,  turn  out  on  a  platter  and  serve  hot.     Garnish  with  parsley. 

Corn   Omelet. 

Four  eggs,  1  cup  of  corn,  1  tablespoonful  of  butter,  salt  and  pepper 
to  the  taste.  Mix  all  together  with  the  exception  of  the  eggs  which 
must  be  whipped,  the  whites  and  yolks  separately.  Put  the  yolks  and 
whites  together,  and  whip  a  little  more,  then  add  to  the  corn,  etc.  It 
is  now  ready  to  be  fried  or  baked  in  a  pudding  dish,  if  preferred,  until 
set.     Serve  with  chopped  parsley. 

If  cooked  in  the  frying-pan,  be  sure  to  shake  the  pan  to  prevent  its 
burning.  It  is  best  to  place  the  pan  where  it  will  cook  slowly.  Serve  it 
rolled.     Nice  for  breakfast  or  luncheon. 

BREAD  AND    BISCUITS 

Ginger   Bread. 

One  cup  sugar,  1  cup  molasses,  y2  cup  milk,  2V2  cups  flour,  1  table- 
spoonful  of  each  of  these  spices — ginger,  allspice,  nutmeg,  and  2  eggs. 
Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  adding  the  spices  and  molasses,  then  flour. 
Mix  with  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder.  Add  the  beaten  eggs,  and  bake 
in  a  loaf  in  a  good  oven  for  thirty  minutes. 

Cream  Ginger  Bread. 

Cream  together  not  quite  half  cup  of  butter,  y2  cup  of  brown  sugar, 
\  gill  of  molasses,  y2  teaspoonful  of  baking  soda  dissolved  in  1  table- 
spoonful  of  hot  water.  Add  to  1  gill  of  hot  milk,  and  stir  in  iX  cups  of 
flour  to  make  a  soft  batter.     Bake  in  shallow  pans,  twenty-five  minutes. 

Rye  Bread. 

One  quart  of  rye  flour,  1  pint  of  wheat  flour,  1  tablespoonful  of  lard, 
1  large  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Break  the  yeast  cake  in  1  pint  of  luke 
warm  water,  add  y2  cup  of  sugar.  Now  work  in  the  lard  if  the  yeast 
has  come  on  the  top  of  the  water,  add  the  ingredients  and  enough  water 
to  make  it  soft  enough  to  handle.  Set  aside  to  rise  until  the  morning, 
knead  5  minutes,  make  into  loaves,  stand  in  a  warm  place  to  rise.  Let 
it  rise  as  thick  again  as  it  was  when  put  in  the  pan.  Bake  40  minutes 
in  a  slow  oven,  when  done  turn  out  to  cool. 

Fried  Toast. 

Slice  stale  bread,  beat  2  eggs,  1  cup  of  milk  dip  in  the  bread  and 
fry  in  butter  or  butter  and  lard  well  mixed.  Fry  to  a  light  brown. 
Serve  with  1  cup  of  powdered  sugar  and  l/2  cup  of  cinnamon  mixed. 

Cold  Water  Corn  Bread. 

Sift  2  cups  of  meal,  y2  teaspoonful  of  salt,  1  tablespoonful  of  lard. 
Mix  with  cold  water,  bake  on  a  gridle,  have  the  bread  very  thin.  Serve 
hot.     Very  nice. 

—  31  — 


Williams  Bread. 

Take  4  quarts  of  flour,  y2  cup  of  lard,  1  tablespoonful  of  salt,  1 
yeast  cake,  3  pints  of  water.  Add  salt,  rub  in  the  lard,  mix  the  yeast 
with  l/2  pint  of  the  water,  y2  cup  of  sugar,  when  yeast  rises  the  sugar  I 
has  been  added  make  a  hole  in  the  center  of  the  flour,  pour  in  the  yeast 
and  the  rest  of  the  water,  knead  3  minutes.  Let  it  rise  over  night  in  the 
morning  knead 5  minutes,  make  it  into  loaves.  Bake  in  a  slow  oven  30 
minutes. 

Ho-Cake  Corn  Bread. 

One  pint  of  white  meal,  1  cup  of  lard,  salt  to  taste.  Mix  all  to- 
gether, then  add  enough  water  to  make  it  stiff  enough  to  handle  with 
a  spoon.  Put  on  a  griddle,  let  it  get  hot,  grease  with  lard,  have  the 
cakes  1  inch)  thick.  If  the  griddle  is  not  hot  the  bread  will  puff  up  in  the 
middle  before  it  cooks.  When  brown  on  both  sides  take  off  the  fire. 
It  is  very  nice  to  eat  with  fried  fish. 

Oat  Meal  Bread. 

Put  in  a  double  boiler  \l/2  cups  of  oat  meal,  1  tablespoon  of  lard,  1 
teaspoon  of  salt,  pour  1  quart  of  boiling  water  on  the  oat  meal,  cook  20 
minutes,  remove  from  fire  to  cool.  Beat  one  egg  light,  add  to  the  mix- 
ture, put  yeast  in  1  gill  of  water,  2  tablespoons  of  sugar,  mix  all  to- 
gether, then  add  flour  to  make  it  stiff  enough  to  knead.  Put  to  rise 
over  night,  in  the  morning  knead  3  minutes  and  make  out  in  loaves. 
Stand  in  a  warm  place  to  rise,  bake  34  hour,  then  turn  out  to  cool. 

Lightning  Bread. 

One  pint  of  white  southern  meal,  y2  cup  of  sugar.  A  little  salt 
mixed  with  warm  water,  put  this  mixture  in  something  air  tight,  stand 
in  a  warm  place  where  it  will  sour  and  rise  in  24  hours.  In  the  summer 
time  it  don't  take  so  long  to  rise  after  it  has  soured  Add  sugar  and  1 
egg,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  have  the  dough  so  it  will  run  freely,  1 
teaspoon  of  baking  powder.         Bake  30  minutes  in  a  hot  oven. 

Raisin  Bread 

Three  quarts  of  flour,  y2  cup  of  sugar,  1  quart  of  water,  2  table- 
spoonfuls  of  lard,  1  pint  of  raisins,  1  cake  of  yeast.  First  put  the  yeast 
in  1  cup  of  water,  then  mix  the  lard,  2  teaspoons  of  salt,  add  yeast  and 
the  rest  of  the  water,  knead  3  minutes.  Set  to  rise  over  night,  in  the 
morning  knead  3  minutes,  make  into  loaves,  and  set  aside  to  rise  when 
light  bake  in  a  slow  oven  35  minutes,  turn  out  to  cool. 

Hardars. 

Four  cups  of  flour,  1  tablespoonful  of  butter,  1  teaspoonful  of  lard, 
1  teaspoonful  of  salt,  2  apples.  Bake  the  apples  dry,  stand  aside  to  cool. 
Whip  2  eggs  whites  stiff,  add  y2  cup  of  sugar,  whip  again  until  stiff, 
then  add  apples,  whip  3  minutes  longer.  One  yeast  cake  put  in  a  gill 
of  luke  warm  milk,  y2  teaspoonful  of  sugar.  When  the  yeast  rises  on  the 
top  of  the  milk,  mix  with  flour,  use  3  gills  more  of  milk,  let  rise  over 
night;  in  the  morning  knead  well.  Make  into  round  shapes,  stand  aside 
to  rise,  brush  with  a  little  milk,  let  rise  to  the  top  of  the  pan.  Bake 
in  a  slow  oven. 

—  32  — 


French  Pan  Cakes. 

One  cup  of  flour,  1  cup  of  milk,  1  egg.  Beat  egg  light,  add  half  of 
the  milk,  add  flour  with  1  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder.  Mix  well,  get 
ali  the  lumps  out,  add  all  of  the  milk,  fry  on  a  griddle.  Nottoo  hot; 
when  done  fill  with  butter  roll  thin.  Lay  on  a  plate,  sprinkle  with 
powdered  sugar,  have  ready  a  long  hot  iron  make  3  or  4  marks  across 
them.     Serve  hot  with  sauce. 

The  Slide  Biscuit. 

Four  cups  of  flour,  4  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  2  tablespoon- 
fulsof  lard,  1  teaspoonful  of  salt,  \l/z  cups  of  milk.  Mix  flour,  lard,  and 
powder  together,  then  add  milk,  roll  out  half  inch  thick,  butter  the 
top  all  over.  Place  them  together  leaving  the  buttered  side  up.  Bake 
in  a  good  oven  19  minutes.     Serve  hot. 

Rusk. 

One  quart  of  flour,  1  yeast  cake,  y2  cup  of  sugar,  1  grated  nutmeg, 
y2  cup  of  butter,  1  teaspoonful  of  salt,  not  quite  a  pint  of  milk.  Put  the 
milk  and  butter,  sugar,  on  the  fire  and  let  them  get  warm,  then  add  the 
yeast  to  the  ingredients,  but  do  not  let  them  get  too  warm.  Mix  the 
bread  and  set  to  rise  over  night,  in  the  morning  roll  it  out  in  round 
balls,  lay  in  the  pan,  rise  very  light  and  bake  22  minutes. 

Beaten    Biscuits. 
Four  cups   of  flour,   1   tablespoonful   of  lard,   1    teaspoonful   of  salt. 
Work  in  the  lard,  add  cold  water  to  make  a  stiff  dough,  beat  30  minutes 
or   until    it    blisters.     Make   into    small    balls,   and    then   mash    them    flat 
y2  inch  thick.     Bake  in  a  slow  oven  30  minutes. 

To  Make  a  Small  Quantity. 

Two  quarts  of  sifted  flour,  1  large  spoonful  of  lard,  1  heaping  tea- 
spoonful of  salt,  1  gill  of  sugar,  1  quart  of  water,  1  yeast  cake.  Warm 
the  lard,  salt,  wet  the  yeast  with  l/2  pint  of  the  water.  When  the  yeast 
rises,  add  to  the  flour  and  the  rest  of  the  ingredients,  knead  3  minutes. 
Let  it  rise  in  a  warm  place  over  night,  in  the  morning  knead  5  minutes 
making  it  into  loaves,  then  let  it  rise  2  hours.  Bake  in  a  slow  oven  32 
minutes. 

PIES,   PASTRY,   Etc. 

Rhubarb  Pie. 
Wash  the  rhubarb,  and  cut  into  short  pieces.  Line  the  pie  plate. 
Mix  1  cup  of  sugar  with  1  tablespoonful  of  flour.  Fill  the  pie  plate  after 
it  is  lined  with  pie  crust.  One  layer  of  rhubarb,  then  y>  of  the  sugar, 
then  the  rest  of  the  rhubarb,  being  sure  that  the  sugar  is  added  last 
Cover  with  a  top  crust  having  holes.  Bake  in  a  slow  oven  for  thirty- 
five  minutes. 

Rhubarb  Tart  or  Tart  Pie. 
Cut  off  the  tops  and  wash.  After  drying,  cut  into  very  short  pieces, 
carefully  laying  it  into  a  lined  pie  plate.  When  the  plate  is  filled,  mix  A 
cup  of  sugar  with  1  tablespoonful  of  flour.  Stand  in  the  oven  to  cook 
until  the  crust  is  a  nice  brown  and  the  rhubarb  is  done.  Remove,  and 
stand  aside  to  cool. 

—  33  — 


Lemon  Pie. 
One  quart  of  water,  1  cup  of  sugar,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  corn- 
starch, 2  small  lemons,  4  eggs,  and  2  pinches  of  salt.  Put  on  the  water. 
Mix  the  starch  with  1  gill  of  water,  adding  to  the  boiling  mixture. 
Cream  sugar  and  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  together,  then  add  to  the 
mixture.  Grate  the  rinds  and  add  to  the  juice.  Let  stand  aside  until 
cool.  Whip  the  white  of  the  egg  until  stiff,  then  add  1  tablespoonful 
of  powdered  sugar.     Whip  stiff,  and   spread  on  top,  then  brown. 

Williams'  Lemon  Pie. 
Two  small  lemons,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  cornstarch,  4  eggs,  2  cups  of 
water,  Yz  cup  of  sugar.  Wash  and  dry  the  lemons,  then  grate  the  rinds. 
Add  the  sugar  and  cornstarch  together.  Wet  just  enough  to  pour  out. 
Add  this  to  the  boiling  water,  and  let  cook  three  minutes.  Separate 
the  eggs,  leaving  one  whole.  Whip  one  white  stiff,  then  add  the  yolks, 
and  whip  again  for  three  minutes.  Add  to  the  boiling  mixture.  Cook 
three  minutes  longer,  then  add  juice  and  grated  rind.  Stand  aside  to 
cool.     Whip  whites  for  the  top,  and  bake  with  an  under  crust. 

Lemon  Cream  Pie. 
One  and  one-half  pints  of  milk,  1  cup  of  sugar,  2  gills  of  lemon  juice, 
3  tablespoonfuls  of  cornstarch,  3  eggs,  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Put  the 
milk  on  to  boil.  Grate  the  rind  of  two  lemons,  mix  it  with  the  sugar 
and  cornstarch.  Add  this  to  the  milk,  and  when  it  becomes  thick, 
remove  from  the  fire.  Add  the  lemon  juice.  Bake  the  crust  first. 
When  all  is  cold,  whip  the  white  of  the  eggs  stiff  with  2  tablespoonfuls 
of  powdered  sugar.  Spread  over  the  top,  and  return  to  the  oven  to 
brown. 

Pineapple  Pie. 
One  pineapple,  1  cup  of  sugar,  1  tablespoonful  of  butter.  Line  the 
pie  plate,  then  peel  the  pineapple,  taking  out  the  eyes.  Rinse  it  off  and 
cut  into  small  bits.  Add  1  teaspoonful  of  flour  with  the  sugar,  and 
sprinkle  it  over  the  pie.  Then  butter,  putting  on  the  top  crust,  crimp 
the  edge.  Stick  the  top  with  holes,  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven  for  half  an 
hour.    Serve  cold. 

Williams'  Apple  Pie. 
Line  the  plate.  Fill  half  full  with  sliced  apples,  sprinkle  Vi  cup  of 
sugar  and  a  little  cinnamon  over  it,  then  put  in  more  apples,  using  1  cup 
of  sugar,  fill  the  plate,  using  all  the  sugar,  sift  on  a  little  more  cinna- 
mon, and  lay  on  another  bit  of  butter.  Cover  with  the  crust  and  bake 
in  a  good  oven  for  thirty  minutes. 

Cream  Apple  Pie. 
Cook  apples  enough  to  make  2  cups.  Put  them  through  a  hair  sieve 
in  order  to  have  them  dry.  Cream  1  cup  of  sugar  and  the  yolks  of  2 
eggs  together.  Add  1  cup  cream  or  cream  and  milk  mixed.  Put  all 
together.  Whip  the  whites  stiff,  adding  them  to  the  mixture,  also  1 
teaspoonful  of  vanilla.  Bake  with  an  undercrust  in  a  hot  oven  until 
set  and  a  light  brown  color  is  obtained. 

Custard   Pie. 
Two  eggs,  2  cups  of  milk,  y2  cup  of  sugar,  1  teaspoonful  of  vanilla. 
Whip  the  eggs  and  sugar  together,  adding  the  vanilla,  then  milk.     Bake 
in  an  undercrust.     When  set,  it  is  done. 

—  34  — 


Orange  Pie. 

One  cup  of  orange  juice,  y2  cup  of  sugar,  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon, 
add  a  teaspoonful  of  melted  butter.  Grate  the  rind  of  2  oranges.  Whip 
the  yolks  and  sugar  together  until  light.  Add  the  butter  and  whip 
again.  Add  the  rind,  and  mix  good,  then  add  the  juice.  Strain  and 
bake  in  an  under  crust  until  set,  and  a  golden  brown  color  is  obtained. 
Watch  closely,  as  it  will  burn  quickly.     This  makes  one  small  pie. 

Pumpkin  Pie. 

Three  cups  of  pumpkin,  2  eggs,  2  cups  of  milk,  1  cup  of  sugar,  and 
1  tablespoonful  of  ginger,  1  teaspoonful  of  spice,  and  a  piece  of  butter. 
Whip  the  yolks  and  sugar  together.  Add  the  melted  butter  and  spice, 
then  the  pumpkin.  Whip  the  whites  till  stiff,  and  add  to  the  mixture, 
then  the  milk.  Bake  with  an  undercrust  for  twenty-five  minutes  in  a 
slow  oven. 

Huckleberry  Bread  Pie. 

One  box  of  huckleberries,  l/>  pint  of  bread  crumbs,  1  egg,  1  cup  of 
milk,  1  cup  and  1  gill  of  sugar,  and  1  tablespoonful  of  butter.  Rub  the 
butter  in  the  bread  crumbs,  and  stir  the  sugar  in  the  berries,  then  mix 
all  together.  Put  in  a  lined  pie  plate  of  crust,  with  a  top  crust.  Bake 
thirty  minutes   in  a  good  oven.      Serve   cold. 

Deep  Dish  Apple  Pie. 

Fill  a  deep  dish  with  apples  after  they  have  been  peeled.  A  layer 
of  apples,  a  little  cinnamon,  and  plenty  of  sugar,  and  lastly  a  dot  of 
butter.  Put  on  the  crust,  pinch  the  layer  around  the  end  to  make  a 
finish.     Bake  in  a  good  oven  for  thirty-five  minutes.     Serve  cold. 

Queen  Pie. 

Peel  2  large  potatoes,  then  wash.  Put  on  to  boil,  and  when  tender, 
mash  all  the  lumps.  Add  1  cup  of  sugar  to  2  large  tablespoonfuls  of 
butter.  Whip  the  white  of  2  eggs  until  stiff.  Drop  in  the  yolks,  and 
whip  again,  adding  2  pinches  of  salt  and  1  tablespoonful  of  vanilla. 
Mix  altogether.  Bake  in  an  undercrust  in  a  good  oven  until  set  and 
it   has   a   golden   brown   color.      Serve   cold. 

Cream  Pie. 

One-half  cup  of  sugar,  not  quite  Yz  cup  of  flour,  1  egg,  1  teaspoon- 
ful of  vanilla,  $i  pint  of  milk.  Put  on  the  milk  to  boil.  Mix  the  flour, 
sugar,  and  egg  together.  Cream  until  light,  then  add  to  milk.  Cook 
two  minutes,  adding  vanilla.  Stand  aside  to  cool.  For  this  pie,  bake  the 
crust  first.  Whip  the  whites  of  2  eggs  and  spread  over,  then  a  little  sugar 
and  bake  to  a  light  brown. 

Chocolate  Cream  Pie. 

One-half  cup  of  sugar,  Y2  cup  of  flour,  VA  pint  of  milk,  2  tablespoon- 
fuls of  shaved  chocolate,  1  teaspoonful  of  vanilla,  1  egg.  Put  milk  on  to 
boil.  Cream  the  sugar  and  flour  and  egg  together.  Add  to  boiling  milk 
cook  three  minutes,  take  off  and  add  the  vanilla.  When  cold,  fill  the 
crust  that  has  been  cooked.  Whip  the  whites  of  3  eggs  until  stiff  and 
put  over  the  top,  then   sprinkle   over  with   sugar  and   brown. 

—  35  — 


Cherry  Pie. 

Pick  over  1  quart  of  cherries,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  flour,  \l/2  cups  of 
sugar.  Line  the  plate,  then  till  with  the  cherries.  Sprinkle  on  the  flour 
and  sugar  mixed,  and  a  little  butter.  Put  on  the  top  crust  and  bake 
thirty  minutes. 

Other  berry  pies  should  be  made  in  the  same  way,  so  they  won't 
spread  when  cut. 

Huckleberry  Pie. 

One  quart  of  berries,  l/2  cup  of  sugar.     Line  the  plate.     Pick  over 

and  wash   the  berries,  then   put  them  in  the  plate.     Sprinkle  over  with 

sugar,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  flour,  mixed.     Add  a  small  piece  of  butter. 

Cover  the  top  with  holes  in  it,  and  bake  in  a  good  oven  for  thirty  minutes. 

Rice  Pie. 

Put  l/2  cup  of  rice  in  2  cups  of  cold  milk.  Let  cook  until  tender, 
then  stand  aside  to  cool.  Separate  3  eggs  into  bowls,  add  l/2  cup  of 
sugar  to  the  yellow,  and  %  to  the  white.  Whip  each  until  they  cream.  Line 
a  pie  plate  with  pie  crust.  Divide  the  rice  in  half,  adding  to  each  of 
the  eggs  vanilla  flavoring.  Fill  the  plate  with  one,  and  put  in  the  oven 
until  set.  Then  put  the  rest  in,  and  let  cook  until  it  is  set  and  a  light 
brown.     This  is  very  nice  in  2  colors.     Serve  cold. 

Prune  Pie. 

One  pound  of  prunes  covered  with  water.  Add  1  cup  of  sugar,  and 
stand  on  the  back  of  the  stove  to  cook  until  soft.  Let  it  cook  down  to 
1  cup  of  juice.  Take  out  the  pits,  line  the  plate  and  fill  with  prunes. 
Cover,  and  bake   thirty  minutes. 

Sliced  Sweet  Potato  Pie. 
Boil  the  potatoes  until  soft,  then  take  off  the  skins  and  slice  them 
thm.  Line  the  plate  with  rich  crust,  and  lay  the  potatoes  in.  Sprinkle 
it  over  with  sugar,  each  layer  of  potatoes,  adding  1  teaspoonful  of  va- 
nilla and  1  tablespoonful  of  water  mixed,  to  the  last  layer.  Finish  with 
a  top  crust,  and  bake  for  half  an  hour  in  a  slow  oven.    Serve  hot  or  cold. 

Mashed  Sweet  Potato  Pie. 
Boil  2  good  size  potatoes.  Skin  and  mash  with  a  tablespoonful  of 
butter.  Beat  2  eggs  with  an  egg-beater  until  light,  and  add  1  cup  of 
sugar.  Whip  again,  adding  1  tablespoonful  of  vanilla  and  i  cup  of  milk. 
Whip  the  whites  stiff  and  add  the  mixture.  Bake  with  an  under  crust  until 
set,  and  a  golden  brown  color.     Serve  cold. 

Guess  Pie. 
One  cup  of  peaches,  1  cup  of  gooseberries,  1  cup  of  strawberries. 
Do  not  chop  the  fruit,  cut  the  berries  small  but  cut  them  in  half;  if  sweet 
add  1  cup  of  sugar;  if  sour  add  \l/2  cups  of  sugar.  Sprinkle  the  sugar 
over  the  berries,  let  them  stand,  the  huckleberries.  Put  on  to  cook 
with  2  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  cook  5  minutes.  Then  stand  aside  to 
cool,  mix  with  the  fruit;  now  make  a  crust,  1  cup  of  sugar,  \l/2  cups  of 
flour,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  1  teaspoonful  of  vanilla,  cream  sugar 
and  butter,  add  1  egg.  Mix  well,  add  flour,  mix  l/2  teaspoonful  powder, 
milk  to  make  stiff  to  roll  out  thin,  put  in  a  pie  plate,  cut  strips,  put 
across  the  top  of  the  pie.  Bake  when  done,  fill  the  crust,  whip  whites 
of  2  eggs,  put  on  the  top  and  let  it  get  a  light  brown.  Whip  l/2  pint  of 
cream  and  put  on  top. 

—  36  — 


Williams'  Mince  Pie. 

Four  cups  of  finely  chopped  apples,  4  cups  of  small  raisins,  4  cups  of 
currants,  3  cups  of  sugar,  2  cups  of  suet,  4  cups  of  lean  beef,  and  the 
peel  of  1  orange  and  the  peel  of  1  lemon,  2  cups  of  citron,  2  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  cinnamon,  2  grated  nutmegs,  and  1  pint  of  brandy.  Cook  and  chop 
beef  each  to  itself,  then  mix  all  together,  place  in  a  stone  jar,  stand 
away  until  ready;  do  not  chop  the  raisins  as  they  are  small. 

Lemon  Pie  Crust. 

This  is  to  make  1  under  crust.  Three-quarter  cup  of  flour,  1  table- 
spoonful  of  lard  and  a  pinch  of  salt,  1  tablespoonful  of  water.  Roll 
this  out  thin.     It  will  line  one  plate. 

German  Puffs. 

Two  cups  of  milk,  2  level  cups  of  flour,  1  tablespoonful  of  melted 
butter,  3  eggs.  Break  the  eggs  in  a  bowl,  whip  3  minutes,  add  but- 
ter to  the  milk,  let  it  get  luke  warm,  add  half  to  the  eggs,  flour,  mix  with 
a  spoon  until  all  the  lumps  are  out,  then  add  the  rest  of  the  milk.  Whip 
the  eggs  with  all  the  ingredients  3  minutes  longer,  add  l/z  teaspoonful  of 
salt.  Fill  cups  or  popover  pans  half  full.  Bake  in  a  slow  oven  30 
minutes,  they  will  not  get  done  under  that  time. 

Cream  Puffs. 

Put  on  2  cups  of  water  and  ],i  cup  of  butter.  Let  it  boil  down  to  1^  cups" 
Stir  in  1  coffee  cup  of  flour.  Let  it  cook  5  minutes,  stirring  all  the  time.  Let 
it  cool  and  stir  in  4  eggs,  one  at  a  time.  When  all  is  well  mixed,  drop  on  the 
tin  in  small  balls,  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven  for  thirty  minutes.  Take  out  at 
once,  cool,  cut  a  hole  in  the  side  near  the  top,  and  fill.     Serve  cold. 

Waffles. 

2  eggs,  2  cups  of  flour,  2  cups  of  milk,  1  tablespoonful  of  butter,  2 
teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder.  Mix  salt,  powder,  with  flour,  whip 
eggs,  add  milk,  flour,  mix  well.  When  all  well  mixed  cook  with  well 
greased  waffle   irons. 

Sugar  Waffles. 

Make  as  above  only  add  Y?  cup  of  sugar  and  teaspoonful  of  vanilla. 

Crust  for  Tarts. 

One  cup  of  flour,  y2  cup  of  sugar,  1  egg,  1  teaspoonful  of  baking 
powder.  Whip  the  egg,  add  flour,  mix  with  powder,  work  1  minute  and 
roll,  then  cut  out  with  a  round  cutter.  Place  in  tart  pans,  stick  full  of 
holes,  bake  until  a  light  brown,  stand  aside  to  cool  then  fill  with  prune 
filling.     Serve  with  whipped  cream. 

Hints  on  Frying  Fritters. 

In  frying  fritters,  drop  a  tiny  bit  of  the  dough  in  a  quanity  of  hot  fat  at 
first,  and  if  it  fries  all  right,  that  is,  gets  a  light  brown,  it  is  all  right  for  the 
rest  of  the  dough.  If  the  fat  is  too  hot  the  fritters  will  brown  and  be  raw  inside. 
If  the  fat  is  too  cold,  they  will  be  grease  soaked.  When  any  thing  is  to  be  fried, 
fish,  for  example,  the  pan  must  be  well  greased,   or  the  fish  will  break  apart. 

Let  this  book  be  your  guide;  if  you  do,  your  cooking  will  be  all  right.  If 
you  do  not,  your  cooking  is  likely  to  be  spoiled. 

—  37  — 


Old-fashioned  Buckwheat  Cakes. 

One  pound  of  buckwheat,  pinch  of  salt,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar, 
put  in  one  cup  of  water,  1  yeast  cake.  When  it  has  melted,  add  to 
ouckwheat;  add  water  enough  to  make  it  thin  enough  to  pour  freely. 
Stand  aside  in  the  morning,  stir  well  and  fry  in  cakes.  If  left  from  time 
to  time  it  will  turn  dark.     It  is  best  to  make  it  fresh  when  needed. 

Drop  Dumplings. 

One  cup  of  flour,  1  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  a  pinch  of  salt,  \2 
cup  of  milk  or  water.  Drop  the  mixture  in  a  pot  by  spoonfuls.  Cook  fifteen 
minutes.     Do  not  open  the  pot  until  done,  or  they  will  fall. 

One  Egg  Muffins. 

Two  cups  of  flour,  V/2  cups  of  milk,  1  tablespoonful  of  melted  lard, 
1  teaspoonful  of  salt,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder.  Whip  the  egg, 
add  milk,  then  flour  after  all  lumps  are  out,  add  the  lard.  Cook  20 
minutes  in  a  good  oven.     This  quantity  will  make  15  muffins. 

Yellow  Corn  Meal  Muffins. 

Two  cups  of  meal,  1  cup  of  flour,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  salt,  3  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  2  eggs.  Whip  the  eggs,  add  milk,  sift  the 
Hour  with  powder  and  salt.  jYiix  all  well,  bake  in  a  thin  pan  or  in 
muffin  pans. 

Apple  Muffins. 

First  peal  1  large  or  2  small  apples  and  cut  them  fine,  then  sprinkle 
over  them,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar.  Now  make  ready  for  the  muffins, 
1  cup  of  flour,  1  cup  of  milk,  1  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  1  teaspoonful  of 
baking  powder,  1  egg.  Whip  the  egg,  add  milk,  add  all  ingredients, 
mix  well,  add  apples.     Bake  in  muffin  pans  well  greased,  20  minutes. 

Quick  Muffins. 

One  cup  of  flour,  V/2  teaspoonful  of  baling  powder,  1  teaspoonful 
of  salt,  1  egg,  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  sugar.  Sift 
powder  with  flour,  wet  it  with  half  of  the  milk,  V/2  pint  of  milk.  Whip 
the  whites  stiff,  add  yolk,  whip  again,  add  the  rest  of  the  ingredients. 
Bake  at  once  in  well  greased  pans  20  minutes  in  a  hot  oven.  This 
amount  will  make   11  muffins. 

Sally  Lunn. 

Two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  2l/2  cups  of  flour,  2  eggs,  \y2  cup  of 
milk,  1  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder.  Whio 
volks  light;  add  milk,  mix  flour  and  powder,  mix  well,  then  add  melted 
butter;  add  wiites  beaten  stiff;  bake  in  a  round  pan  or  muffin  pans  IS 
minutes.     If  in  a  cake  pan,  bake  22  minutes.     Serve  hot. 

Sally  Lunn. 

Two  cups  of  flour,  2  eggs,  1  cup  of  milk,  1  tablespoonful  of  butter 
melted,  1  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder.  Whip  eggs  light,  add  flour, 
mix  well.  Bake  in  a  sheet  thirty  minutes  or  it  can  be  made  in  muffins. 
That  is  a  very  nice  way  to  make  sally  lunn  muffins. 

—  38  — 


Puffs. 

Two  cups  of  flour,  2  eggs,  2  cups  of  milk,  y2  a  teaspoonful  of  bak- 
ing powder  and  salt.  Bake  in  popover  pans  for  24  of  an  hour.  In  a 
verv  slow  oven. 

Sandwich  Biscuits. 
Three  pints  of  flour,  3  tablespoonfuls  of  lard,  4  tablespoonfuls  of 
baking  powder,  near  a  pint  of  milk.  Sift  the  powder,  flour,  2  teaspoon- 
fnlsof  salt,  mix  in  lard,  add  milk,  roll  thin,  lay  grated  cheese  between  and 
rub  with  soft  butter  on  the  top.  Run  them  in  the  oven  and  cook  25 
minutes.     Do  not  let  the  oven  be  too   hot. 

Strawberry   Gems. 

Three  cups  of  flour,  l/2  cup  of  melted  lard,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar, 
4  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  2  eggs.  Cut  berries  in  three  parts,  if 
large;  if  small,  in  half.  Pnt  y2  cup  of  sugar  over  berries;  stand  until  ready. 
Pour  off  juice,  add  enough  milk  to  make  two  cups.  Whip  2  eggs,  add  milk, 
flour  lard,  baking  powder  and  berries  last.  Bake  at  once  in  good  hot  oven 
twenty-six  minutes.     This  will  make  17  gems. 

Blackberry    Gems. 

Three  cups  of  flour,  l/2  cup  of  melted  lard,  2  tablespoonfuls  of 
sugar.  Chop  berries  in  l/2  cup  of  sugar,  let  it  stand  over  night;  in  the 
morning  take  the  juice  and  milk  enough  to  make  2  cups,  sift  flour  with  4 
teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder.  Mix  in  the  milk,  then  lard  melted 
sugar,  whip   the  whites  of  2  eggs   stiff,  drop   in  yolks.  Whip   again, 

add  to  the  batter,  stir  in  then  the  berries.       Bake  in  gem  or  muffin  pans 
in  a  slow  oven  25  minutes.     It  will  make  17  gems. 

Graham  Gems. 

One  and  one-half  cups  of  graham  flour,  1  cup  of  milk,  1  egg,  1  tea- 
spoonful  of  paking  powder.  Whip  the  egg,  add  milk,  then  flour,  mix 
with  baking  powder.      Bake  in  gem  pan  16  minutes. 

Delight  Muffins. 

One  cup  of  flour,  not  quite  a  cup  of  milk,  1  teaspoonful  of  baking 
powder,  1  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  1  teaspoonful  of  vanilla,  1  saltspoon  of 
salt,    1    tablespoonful   of  melted  butter,    1    egg.     Mix   all    ingredients    to 
the  beaten  egg.     Fill  muffin  pans,  34  full- 
Apple  Muffins. 

One  and  one-half  cups  of  flour,  1  cup  of  milk,  \y2  teaspoonfuls  of 
baking  powder,  1  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  1  egg,  2  apples.  Cut  the  apples 
fine,  cover  with  1  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  let  stand  5  minutes,  y2  tea- 
spoonful of  salt,  mix  flour,  salt,  baking  powder  together.  Whip  egg, 
add  milk  then  flour,  when  well  mixed  add  apples  and  fill  muffin  pan. 
At  once  return  to  tbe  oven  not  too  hot.  Cook  30  minutes.  This  makes 
7    muffins. 

Popovers. 

Three  cups  of  flour,  3  eggs,  3  cups  of  milk,  y2  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
Mix  salt  with  flour,  brake  eggs  in  a  bowl.  Whip  3  minutes,  add  just 
enough  milk  so  as  to  get  out  all  of  the  lumps,  add  little  at  the  time  until 
all  the  milk  is  used,  then  whip  3  minutes  longer.  Half  fill  the  popover 
pans,  cook  in  a  slow  oven  30  minutes. 

—  39  — 


Corn  Muffins. 
One  and  one-half  cups  of  yellow  meal,  1  cup  of  flour,  2  teaspoonfuls 
of  baking  powder,  2 '4  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter,  2  eggs,  \yA  cups 
of  milk.  Whip  the  yolks,  add  sugar,  and  then  flour,  mix  butter,  powder, 
add  the  whites  last,  whip  stiff  add  to  the  batter.  Cook  at  once  22 
minutes  in  a  good  oven  not  too  hot.  This  will  make  16  muffins. 

Corn  Muffins. 
Two  cups  of  flour,  1  cup  of  yellow  corn  meal,  1  cup  and  1  gill  of 
milk,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  2  teaspoon- 
fuls of  baking  powder,  2  eggs.  Mix  meal  and  flour  together,  add  milk, 
then  melted  butter,  mix  powder  with  flour,  add  beaten  eggs  last.  Bake 
at  once. 

Claber   Muffins. 
Two  eggs,  2  cups  of  flour,  2  cups  of  claber,  V2  teaspoonful  of  baking 
powder,  1  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  add  1   good  pinch   of  soda  to  the    claber 
Whip   eggs,  add  the  claber  then  flour,  mix  with  powder.     Bake  at   once. 
This  will  make  14  muffins. 

Corn  Meal  Cakes. 
One  cup  of  corn  meal,   1   tablespoon  of  flour,  1   egg,  a  little  salt,   1 
tablespoon  of  baking  powder.     Beat  egg,  add  milk  to  make  a  soft  batter. 
Make  in  small  cakes,  fry  on  a  well  greased  griddle.     Serve  with  butter 
or  syrup. 

Egg  Rolls. 

One  pint  of  flour,  1  cup  of  milk,  1  tablespoonful  of  butter,  l/2  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt.  Sift  salt,  flour,  powder,  together.  Mix  in  the  but- 
ter, whip  eggs  light,  add  milk  and  eggs,  roll  out,  cut  with  a  biscuit 
cutter,  rub  soft  butter  on  the  end,  fold  the  turnovers  bake  in  a  quick 
oven.     Serve    hot    or    cold. 

Apple  Fritters. 
One  cup  of  flour,  1  egg,  1  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  1  table- 
spoonful of  sugar,  2  grains  of  salt,  Y$  cup  of  milk.  Whip  the  egg,  add 
half  of  the  milk,  stir  in  flour,  mix  well,  add  the  rest  of  the  milk.  Chop 
three  apples,  add  to  the  batter,  fry  in  deep  fat  like  pan  cakes.  If  you  desire 
pan  cakes  add  a  little  more  milk,  pan  cakes  must  be  thinner  than 
fritters  so  as  to  spread. 

Strawberry  Fritters. 
One  cup  of  flour,  ^2  cup  of  milk,  1  egg,  1  spoonful  of  salt,  2  table- 
spoonfuls of  sugar,  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder.  Mix  powder,  flour, 
whip  the  egg,  add  sugar  and  milk  then  flour.  Fry  on  a  griddle,  cake  to 
be  the  size  of  a  saucer,  brown  both  sides.  Cut  the  berries  and  lay 
berries  on  the  cake,  rolling  it  over  and  over.  Then  crush  some  berries 
with  some  sugar,  spread  over  the  top.  Wrhen  ready  to  serve,  put  a 
spoonful  of  whipped  cream  over  the  top. 

Orange  Wheel. 
First  peel  oranges  and  cut  them  round  and  cut  a  round  hole  in  the 
center,  sprinkle  over  sugar,  make  a  batter  with  1  egg,  1  cup  of  flour,  1 
gill  of  sugar.  Add  milk  to  make  it  the  thickness  of  a  pan  cake,  add 
1  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder  with  a  fork,  dip  in  oranges  and  fry  in 
deep  hot  fat.     Serve  with  sauce. 

—  40—  1 


Bread  Pan  Cakes. 

Two  cups  of  bread  crumbs  soaked  in  2  cups  of  milk,  when  soft  add 
just  enough  flour  to  make  soft  into  cookies  and  1  teaspoonful  of  baking 
powder.     If  needed  add  a  little  salt. 

Sandwich. 

Take  a  square  loaf  of  bread,  have  soft  butter  ready,  cut  off  the  crust 
and  the  slices  very  thin,  then  roll  each  slice  up  in  a  damp  napkin.  Put 
little  dressing  then  roll. 

Cheese  Fonzo. 

Two  cups  of  cracker  crumbs  or  bread  crumbs,  2  cups  of  grated 
cheese,  1  pint  of  milk,  2  eggs.  Whip  the  whites  again,  add  milk,  mix 
all  together,  put  in  a  baking  dish  and  bake  24  minutes  in  a  good  oven. 
Serve  hot. 

Parker  House   Rolls. 

One  pint  of  milk,  1  tablespoonful  of  butter.  Put  milk  on  to  boil,  1 
minute,  remove  from  fire  and  let  it  get  luke  warm,  add  yeast  cake, 
1  gill  of  sugar,  1  teaspoonful  of  vanilla,  and  1  egg.  Whip  egg  light, 
pour  all  in  a  pan,  add  flour  to  make  a  stiff  dough  enough  to  handle. 
Set  to  rise;  in  the  morning  knead  and  roll  out;  cut  with  biscuit  cutter; 
rub  a  little  soft  butter  on  the  end  and  fold  in  half.  Stand  aside  to  rise; 
when  risen,  bake  15  minutes. 

Cereal  Croquettes. 

One  cup  of  flour,  2  cups  of  cereal  that  has  been  cooked  and  become 
cold,  1  egg,  1  heaping  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  y2  cup  of  sugar. 
Mix  the  cereal,  flour,  and  sugar  together.  Whip  the  eggs  and  add  them 
(Milk  is  not  needed  unless  the  cereal  is  very  stiff.)  Drop  by  the  spoon- 
ful into  the  pan  and  fry.     Serve  with  hot  sauce. 

Oatmeal  Fritters. 

Two  cups  of  cooked  oatmeal,  1  cup  of  flour,  1  teaspoonful  of  baking 
powder,  more  if  not  enough,  2  eggs.  Whip  the  eggs  until  light.  Add 
the  oatmeal,  mixing  well,  then  the  flour,  and  y2  cup  of  milk.  Drop  in  the 
pan  by  the  spoonful,  and  serve  with  sauce. 

Cream  of  Wheat  Fritters. 

One  cup  of  cold  cream  of  wheat,  1  egg,  y2  teaspoonful  of  baking 
powder,  more  salt,  if  necessary,  y2  cup  of  flour.  Whip  the  egg  light 
adding  the  powder  and  flour.  Mix  altogether,  and  put  in  a  little  milk,  ii 
it  isn't  soft  enough.  Drop  by  the  spoonful  in  deep  pot  of  fat,  not  too  hot 
nor  too   cold.     Serve   with   sauce. 

Ambrosia. 

Six  oranges,  1  cocoanut.  Slice  orange  thin;  peel  cocoanut,  rinse  it  off,  dry 
and  grate  it.  Put  a  layer  of  each,  sprinkling  with  powdered  sugar  till  dish  is 
full,  1  cup  of  sugar  in  all.  Let  the  top  be  cocoanut.  Whip  y2  pint  of  cream, 
not  too  stiff,  then  with  a  spoon  stir  1  tablespoonful  of  powdered  sugar,  then  stir  in 
brandy,  little  by  little  until  all  is  used.  Put  whipped  cream  over  the  top,  and 
stand  away  to  cool. 

—  41  — 


Strawberry   Fritters.    . 

One  cup  of  flour,  1  gill  of  sugar,  1  egg,  ^  cup  of  milk,  2  grains 
of  salt.  Whip  the  egg,  add  milk  and  flour,  mix  with  1  teaspoon  of  bak- 
ing powder,  pick  and  wash  the  berries,  then  drain.  Add  to  the  batter, 
1  pot  of  fat  hot  and  ready,  add  berry,  take  one  at  the  time,  then  drop 
some  more  batter  in  the  hot  fat,  when  a  golden  brown,  take  out  and 
serve  at  once  with  a  sauce. 

Strawberry  Pile   Up. 

Two  quarts  of  strawberries,  2  cups  of  sugar,  if  berries  are  sour,  if 
sweet,  1  cup,  l/2  box  of  gelatine.  Soak  in  1  cup  of  water,  2  cups  of 
boiling  milk,  strain  berries  and  add  to  the  gelatine,  stand  away,  let  it 
come  to  a  gell,  then  whip  until  light,  whip  the  cream  with  a  fork,  don't 
mix  it  good,  it  will  be  white  and  red  all  the  way  through,  put  it  in  a  wet 
mold  when  it  is  ready  to  serve.  Whip  the  cup  of  cream,  serve  on  the 
top. 

Strawberry   Diny. 

Two  quarts  of  strawberries,  i  cup  of  sugar,  r  pint  of  cream.  Chop  berries; 
mix  sugar  and  a  gill  of  brandy;  stand  aside  fifteen  minutes;  then  stir  in  ^  pint 
of  the  cream.  Now  whip  the  rest  stiff,  and  put  over  by  spoonfuls,  and  on  each 
pile  lay  a  large  berry.  Serve  ice  cold.  This  is  very  fine.  This  dessert  should 
be  served  in  a  glass. 

Mother's  Favorite. 

Two  large  potatoes,  sweet,  2  quarts  of  milk,  2  cups  of  sugar,  1  nut- 
meg, 1  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon,  1  tablespoonful  of  butter,  2  eggs.  First 
grate  the  potatoes,  whip  eggs  and  sugar  together  then  mix  all  together. 
Pour  in  a  deep  pan  and  bake  for  2  hours  in  a  slow  oven.  This  is  very 
fine. 

CAKES,    FILLINGS,   Etc. 

Devil  Food  Cake. 

Two  cups  of  flour,  1  cup  of  sugar,  l/2  cup  of  chocolate,  y2  cup  of 
water,  y2  cup  of  milk,  2  eggs,  2  light  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder. 
Cream  the  butter  and  sugar  until  light,  then  add  the  eggs,  whipping  until 
light.  Shave  off  the  chocolate,  putting  it  on  in  cold  water  to  cook  until 
smooth.  Add  this  to  the  mixture,  cold,  the_n  the  milk  and  flour  mixed 
with  powder.     Bake  in  three  layers.     Put  together  with  devil  filling. 

Sponge  Cake. 

Six  eggs,  y2  pound  of  powdered  sugar,  y>  pound  of  flour,  1  tea- 
spoonful  of  lemon  juice.  Beat  the  eggs  and  sugar  for  fifteen  minutes 
with  a  wire  whip.     Bake  in  a  loaf  thirty  minutes,  in  a  slow  oven. 

Pound  Cake. 

Four  eggs,  2/$  cup  of  butter,  1  good  cup  of  sugar,  2y2  cups  of  flour, 
Yi  cup  of  milk.  Cream  the  butter  and  sugar  together,  adding  the  eggs, 
one  at  a  time,  beating  five  minutes  after  each  one.  Add  the  milk  and 
vanilla,  then  the  flour  sifted  with  2  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder. 
Bake  in  a  loaf,  for  forty-five  minutes. 

—  42  — 


Dark  Drop  Cake. 

Yolks  of  3  eggs,  y2  cup  of  butter,  y2  cup  of  milk,  1  cup  of  molasses, 
3  cups  of  flour,  3  light  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  a  pinch  of  salt, 
y  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon,  y  teaspoonful  of  allspice.  Cream  the 
butter  and  sugar  together.  Add  the  molasses,  creaming  that.  Stir  in 
the  milk  and  flour  mixed  with  baking  powder.  Drop  on  buttered 
paper,  and  bake  in  a  good  oven. 

Snow  Sponge   Cake. 

One  and  one  half  cups  of  powdered  sugar,  1  cup  of  flour,  y>  tea- 
spoonful of  baking  powder,  the  whites  of  11  eggs,  1  teaspoonful  of 
vanilla.  Whip  the  whites  stiff.  Sift  the  flour  mixed  with  powder,  three 
times.  Mix  with  the  eggs,  then  add  the  vanilla.  Bake  in  drop  cakes 
or  a  loaf,  icing  the  bottom.  Serve  plain.  The  yolks  may  be  saved  for 
gold  cake. 

Angel  Food  Cake. 

One  and  one  half  cups  of  granulated  sugar,  1  cup  of  flour,  1  tea- 
spoonful of  vanilla,  the  whites  of  11  eggs.  Whip  the  whites  until  they 
are  as  stiff  as  possible.  Put  in  the  sugar.  Sift  the  flour  live  times,  and 
put  that  in,  after  mixing  it  with  the  powder.  Now  add  the  vanilla.  Pour 
in  an  ungreased  pan,  and  bake  forty-two  minutes.  Stand  on  2  cups 
until  cold,  and  turn  out  and  ice  the  bottom. 

White   Cake. 

One  and  one-half  cups  of  flour,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  l/2  cup  of 
sugar  1  teaspoonful  of  vanilla,  1  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  the  whites 
of  2  eggs.  Cream  the  butter  and  sugar  together,  adding  the  milk  little 
by  little  until  2/3  of  a  cup  has  been  used.  Then  put  in  the  flour  which 
has  been  sifted  with  the  powder.  Add  the  vanilla  and  eggs  last.  Whip 
stiff,  and  bake  in  a  small  pan,  twenty  minutes. 

System    Cake. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  2  eggs,  y2  cup  of  butter,  2  cups  of  flour,  1  table- 
spoonful  of  vanilla,  1  cup  of  milk.  Cream  the  sugar  and  butter  together, 
then  add  the  eggs,  one  to  be  beaten  five  minutes  after  the  other.  Put 
in  the  milk,  then  the  flour  mixed  with  baking  powder.  Mix  well  and 
add  the  vanilla.  Bake  thirty-four  minutes  in  a  paper  lined  pan,  in  a 
good  oven. 

Chocolate  Layer  Cake. 

One-half  cup  of  butter,  2  cups  of  flour,  l/2  cup  of  milk,  2  level  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  1  egg,  1  teaspoonful  of  vanilla,  1  cup  of 
sugar.  Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  then  add  the  egg.  Cream  again, 
adding  the  milk  and  vanilla.  Now  add  the  flour  and  powder,  mixed. 
Bake  in  three  layers. 

Orange  Layer  Cake. 

Three  cups  of  flour,  2/t,  cup  butter,  2  cups  sugar,  2  eggs,  3  light 
teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  teaspoonful  vanilla.  Cream  the  sugar 
and  butter  together,  adding  the  eggs.  Beat  well,  then  add  the  vanilla. 
Put  in  the  milk  and  mix  thoroughly,  and  add  the  flour  and  baking 
powder.  Mix  all  well,  and  bake  in  three  layers  from  twenty  to  twenty- 
one  minutes. 

—  43  — 


Peanut  Butter  Layer  Cake. 
Two  cups  of  flour,  l/2  cup  of  butter,  1  egg,  1  cup  of  sugar,  2  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  baking  powder.  Cream  the  sugar  and  butter  together  until 
light.  Add  the  egg,  creaming  it  in  well.  Add  Y2  cup  of  milk,  a  little  at 
a  time,  then  the  flour  mixed  with  powder.  Lastly  the  vanilla.  Bake 
in   three   layers. 

Crumb  Cake. 
Two  cups  flour,  2  eggs,  1  teaspoonful  of  salt,  2  teaspoonfuls  baking 
powder,  2l/2  tablespoonfuls  sugar,  ]/>  cup  milk.  Break  the  eggs  in  a  large 
bowl,  and  whip  until  light,  then  add  the  milk.  Mix  the  baking  powder 
with  the  flour,  and  mix  all  the  ingredients  together.  Turn  out  on  a 
floured  board,  and  roll  1  inch  thick.  Lay  in  a  shallow  pan  crumbs  for 
the  top.  Take  1  heaping  tablespoonful  of  hard  butter,  3  of  flour,  and 
rub  them  together  until  creamed.  Add  Yz  cup  brown  sugar,  and  mix  it. 
Do  not  let  the  warm  hands  melt  the  sugar,  as  it  will  spoil  the  mixture. 
If  desired,  add  1  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon.  Sprinkle  crumbs  over  the  top. 
Bake  twenty-two  minutes  in  a  slow  oven.     Serve  hot. 

Mince  Meat  Layer  Cake. 

Two  and  one-half  cups  of  flour,  2/z  cup  of  butter,  1  cup  of  sugar,  2  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  vanilla,  2  eggs,  2/$  cup  of  water.  Cream  the  butter  and 
sugar,  adding  the  yolks  of  the  eggs.  Cream  until  light,  then  add  the 
water  and  vanilla.  Sift  in  the  flour  mixed  with  the  baking  powder. 
Whip  the  whites  stiff  and  add  to  the  dough.     Bake  in  three  layers. 

Apple  Cake. 

One  cup  of  flour,  i  tablespoonful  of  butter,  I  egg,  i  gill  of  sugar.  Cream 
the  butter  and  sugar  together.  Add  egg,  flour  and  sugar  and  just  enough 
milk  to  make  it  stiff  enough  to  roll.  Mix  y2  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder 
with  the  flour.  Roll  out  in  tin  pie  plate.  Core  sour  apples,  peel  and  slice 
them  in  the  crust.  Sprinkle  l/2  cup  of  sugar  and  y2  cup  currants.  Bake 
in  a  slow  oven  for  twenty  minutes.     Serve  cold. 

Gold  Leader  Cake. 
Yolks  of  11  eggs,  2l/2  cups  of  flour,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder, 
y2  cup  of  butter,  1  cup  of  milk,  1  teaspoonful  of  vanilla.  Cream  the 
sugar  and  butter  until  light,  then  add  eggs,  2  at  a  time.  After  all  have 
been  used,  add  milk,  then  flour,  mixed  with  baking  powder.  Put  in  the 
vanilla,  and  bake  in  a  loaf  for  thirty  minutes  in  a  slow  oven. 

Tipsy  Cake. 

One  cup  of  butter,  ll/2  cups  of  sugar,  3  eggs,  2  cups  of  flour,  1  cup 
of  milk,  2  level  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  1  teaspoonful  of  vanilla. 
Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  add  the  eggs  and  whip  well.  Then  put  in 
the  milk,  then  flour  mixed  with  powder.     Bake  in  a  long  tin. 

Cocoanut  Layer  Cake. 
Three  cups  of  flour,  5  eggs,  \l/2  cups  of  sugar,  2/s  cup  of  cold  water,  2 
of  milk,  1  cocoanut,  3  level  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  2  tea- 
spoonfuls of  vanilla.  Cream  the  butter  and  sugar  together  until  light. 
Separate  the  whites,  and  yolks,  saving  one-half  of  the  former.  Add  a 
whole  egg  then  the  rest  of  the  yolks.  The  whites  are  to  be  used  for 
rilling.  Put  in  the  flour  sifted  with  the  baking  powder,  and  bake  in  three 
layers. 

—  44  — 


Strawberry  Short  Cake. 

One  cup  of  flour,  H  cup  of  butter,  %  cup  of  cold  water,  2  teaspoon- 
fuls  of  baking  powder,  1  egg,  1  cup  of  sugar.  Cream  the  butter  together 
with  the  sugar,  and  add  the  egg.  Cream  again  adding  a  little  water  at  a 
time.  When  all  has  been  used,  put  in  the  vanilla,  then  sift  in  the  flour 
mixed  with  powder.  Bake  in  three  layers.  If  a  large  pan,  make  two 
layers. 

Molasses  Cake. 

One  tablespoon  of  ginger,  1  of  allspice,  1  of  nutmeg,  2  of  butter,  2 
cups  of  flour,  2  eggs,  j/3  cup  of  molasses,  y2  cup  of  sugar,  1  cup  of  milk, 
2  light  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder.  Cream  the  sugar  and  butter  to- 
gether. Whip  the  eggs,  adding  the  milk  and  ginger.  Add  the  molasses 
and  flour  mixed  with  baking  powder.  Mix  well,  and  bake  from  twenty 
to  twenty-five  minutes  until  a  straw  when  stuck  in  it  will  come  out  clean. 

I  Don't  Know  Cake. 

One  half  tablespoonful  of  butter,  1  tablespoonful  of  lard,  2/z  cup  of 
water,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  1  tablespoonful  of  lemon  juice, 
2  eggs,  2  cups  of  flour,  1  cup  of  sugar.  Cream  the  lard,  butter,  and 
sugar  until  light.  Add  one  at  a  time,  creaming  three  minutes  apart. 
Add  the  water,  then  flour  and  powder.  Bake  in  a  shallow  pan  in  an 
oven  not  too  hot  for  thirty  minutes. 

This  is  a  fine  cake. 

Samna  Cake. 

Five  egg:,  4  cups  of  flour,  1  gill  of  butter,  2  cups  of  sugar, 
1  tablespoonful  of  vanilla.  Cream  the  butter  and  sugar  together  until 
light.  Add  1  cup  of  milk.  Cream  all  together,  sifting  in  4  light  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  baking  powder  mixed  with  flour.  Mix  well,  and  stir  in  1 
cupful  of  ground  peanuts.     Bake  in  a  slow  oven,  fifty  minutes. 

Crullers. 
One-quarter  of  a  cup  of  sugar,  1  tablespoonful  of  butter,  yi  cup  of 
milk,  1  egg,  1  1-3  cups  of  flour.  Cream  the  sugar  and  butter  together, 
add  egg,  then  cream  more.  Next  put  in  your  milk  and  flour,  adding  1 
teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  and  a  little  nutmeg.  Roll  the  dough 
out  ^4-inch  thick,  then  cut  into  narrow  strips  which  may  be  twisted 
as  desired.  Fry  in  a  deep  pan  to  a  golden  brown  color.  Dust  with 
powdered    sugar,  when   cold. 

Doughnuts. 
One-half  cup  milk,  2l/2  cups  flour,  1  egg,  1  tablespoonful  of  butter,  2 
tablespoonfuls  sugar,  1  teaspoonful  of  vanilla.  Whip  the  sugar  and  egg 
together,  then  add  the  vanilla,  and  the  milk  next.  Sift  in  the  flour  mixed 
with  1  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder.  Melt  the  butter  and  add  it  last. 
Mix  all  the  ingredients  well  and  turn  the  dough  out  on  a  board,  rolling 
it  thin.  Cut  with  a  doughnut  cutter  and  fry  in  a  deep  fat.  After  they 
are  cold,  dust  with  powdered  sugar. 

Ginger  Cookies. 
One  cup  molasses,  1  cup  sugar,  l/2  cup  butter,  3  teaspoonfuls  of 
ginger,  2  cups  of  flour,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder.  Cream  the  but- 
ter and  sugar  together  and  roll  the  dough  out  thin,  after  mixing  the 
other  ingredients.  Cut  with  a  biscuit  cutter,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven, 
until  it  becomes  a  golden  brown  color,  then  lay  them  on  a  paper  until 
cool. 

-45  — 


.Banana  Corns. 

Two  cups  of  flour,  2  eggs,  1  cup  of  sugar.  Whip  eggs  and  sugar  to- 
gether until  light,  then  add  sifted  flour;  mix  with  1  teaspoonful  of 
baking  powder; knead  a  few  minutes,  brake  off  and  roll  each  piece;  have  a 
little  water  ready,  peel  bananas  and  split  and  cross;  1  banana,  makes 
4  corns.  Put  in  the  dough  that  has  been  rolled  out  thin;  now  roll  the 
banana  in  the  dough,  wet  the  edge  so  as  it  will  not  come  apart.  Fry- 
in  deep  fat  for  3  minutes,  put  them  in  a  plate  or  a  pan;  stand  in  a  warm 
oven  covered  not  too  hot,  cook  15  minutes.     Serve  with  sauce  for  banana  corns 

Apple   Tart-a-na. 

Eight  large  apples,  1  cup  of  sugar,  2  cups  of  water,  x/2  pint  of 
cream,  whites  of  3  eggs,  34  cup  of  powdered  sugar.  Bake  apples  very- 
soft;  stand  aside  to  cool.  When  ice  cold,  take  them  out  of  the  skinsand 
remove  seeds  and  mash  them  with  a  spoon.  Whip  the  e.ggs  stiff,  then  in 
another  bowl  whip  cream  stiff;  mix  eggs  and  cream  together.  Add  tea- 
spoonful  of  vanilla,  put  a  layer  of  each  until  the  dish  is  filled.  Put  the 
cream  on  top;  stand  where  it  will  get  ice  coldj  then  make  a  custard 
with  the  yolks,  add  1  cup  of  milk,  cook  until  thick.  There  should  be  a 
cup  of  juice  from    the    apples,  add  this  to  the  custard.     Serve  cold. 

Charlotte  Russe. 

Twelve  lady  fingers,  1  quart  of  cream,  ^  cup  of  powdered  sugar,  1 
tablespoonful  of  vanilla,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  gelatine.  Soak  the  gelatine 
in  1  gill  of  water  3  minutes,  stand  in  hot  water,  strain;  2  drops  of  lemon 
juice,  add  1  gill  of  boiling  water,  stand  aside  to  chill,  when  it  is  just 
ready  to  set,  whip  it  until  it  is  light,  add  to  the  whipped  cream,  add  sugar. 
Split  the  lady  fingers  in  form  of  a  cup,  and  a  small  piece  at  the  bottom, 
fill,  stand  aside,  until  ready  to  serve,  in  a  cold  place. 

Charlotte   Russe. 

Whip  1  pint  of  cream  very  stiff,  add  Vi  cup  of  powdered  sugar,  1 
teaspoonful  of  vanilla,  line  a  glass  dish  with  sponge  cake,  fill  in  the 
whip  cream,  stand  in  the  ice  box,  until  ready  to  serve. 

Chocolate  Rangle. 

Put  on  the  fire  1  pint  of  milk,  shave  from  cake  2  tablespoonfuls  of 
chocolate,  put  it  on  the  fire  in  the  vessel  it  is  to  be  cooked  in,  1  gill  of  milk, 
mix  24  cup  of  sugar,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  cornstarch,  together,  add  to 
boiling  milk.  Whip  the  white  of  one  egg  stiff,  drop  layer  of  the  ring 
and  custard  until  all  is  used,  then  put  grated  nuts  on  top.  Stand  aside  to 
cool,  serve  with  a  sauce. 

Molasses  Cookies. 

One  cup,  each,  of  brown  and  white  sugar,  2  cups  of  molasses,  r/>  tea- 
spoonful of  baking  powder,  1  quart  and  1  pint  of  flour,  1  tablespoonful  of 
cinnamon,  1  tablespoonful  of  ginger.  Whip  the  sugar  and  molasses  to- 
gether, adding  the  flour,  knead  very  little,  and  roll  out  thin.  Cut  out 
and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  until  it  has  a  light  brown  color.  Lay  on  paper 
until  cold.  Put  away  in  a  stone  jar  and  cover.  These  will  keep  a  long 
time. 

—  46  — 


Devil  Food  Filling. 

Whip  the  whites  of  3  eggs,  stiff.  Add  a  little  at  a  time  1  cup  of 
powdered  sugar;  when  all  is  mixed,  ice;  the  top  with  the  same. 

Peanut  Filling. 

One  cup  ground  peanuts,  the  whites  of  3  eggs,  y2  cup  brandy.  Put 
on  in  a  double  boiler.  Whip  the  eggs  until  stiff,  and  add  Yi  cup  of 
powdered  sugar.  Whip  again,  then  add  to  the  hot  brandy.  When  it 
thickens,  it  is  done.  After  it  has  been  set  aside  and  cooled,  add  the 
peanuts.     It  is  now  ready  for  use. 

Maple  Filling. 

Two  and  one-quarter  cups  of  light  brown  sugar,  J^>  cup  of  water. 
Put  the  sugar  and  water  on  in  a  saucepan,  letting  it  cook  until  it  strings 
from  a  spoon  without  stirring.  Whip  the  whites  of  3  eggs  until  stiff. 
After  the  sugar  has  cooked  sufficiently,  remove  from  the  stove  and  let 
it  sit  one  minute  to  cool.  Then  pour  syrup  over  the  beaten  eggs  in  a  stream, 
whipping  constantly  until  it  is  about  blood  warm,  then  add  2  drops  of 
Maplene.     This  will   only  fill  and  ice   one  cake. 

Filling  for  Cream  Puffs. 

One-half  cup  of  flour,  Yi  cup  of  sugar,  1  pint  milk,  2  eggs,  1  tea- 
spoonful  of  vanilla.  Put  on  the  milk  and  let  it  boil.  Then  mix  the  flour 
and  sugar.  Whip  the  eggs.  Mix  all  together,  stirring  in  the  milk. 
When  thick,  take  off  and  add  the  vanilla. 

Filling  for  chocolate  eclairs  is  made  the  same  way,  with  the  addi- 
tion of  2  tablespoonfuls  of  chocolate,  grated.  Now  use  an  icing  for  the 
top,  of  chocolate. 

Mince-meat  Filling. 

Cook  enough  fresh,  lean  beef  to  make  l/2  cup  after  it  is  ground, 
y2  cup  of  red  cherries,  Vz  cup  of  dates,  J4  cup  of  small  raisins.  Be  sure 
the  meat  is  ground  fine,  but  do  not  grind  the  fruit,  chop  it,  and  mix 
all  together  with  1  gill  of  brandy.  Let  this  stand  for  thirty  minutes. 
Whip  the  whites  of  2  eggs  and  y2  pint  of  cream  in  separate  bowls. 
When  the  cream  is  stiff,  add  y2  cup  of  powdered  sugar  to  it,  and  then 
put  in  the  eggs.  When  ready  to  put  on  the  cake,  put  a  layer  of  cream, 
then  the  mince-meat,  finishing  the  top  with  cream.     Keep  cool. 

Cocoanut  Filling. 

Two  cups  of  powdered  sugar,  2y2  cups  of  cocoanut.  Whip  the 
whites  of  4  eggs  until  stiff,  then  add  the  sugar  by  degrees,  whipping 
all  the  time.  Add  tne  cocoanut,  with  the  exception  of  a  little  to  put  on 
top  and  the  sides.  It  is  now  ready  to  spread  between  the  layers  and  on 
top,  after  which  the  cocoanut  saved  can  be  spread  on. 

Chocolate  Filling. 

One-half  cup  of  chocolate,  2/z  cup  of  water.  Put  on  to  boil  five 
minutes,  then  add  1  cup  of  powdered  sugar.  Whip  the  whites  of  2  eggs 
and  stir  in  while  hot.  Cook  two  minutes,  then  stand  aside  to  cool  until 
ready. 

-47  —  ..      ■      ■  .      ; 


Molasses  Filling. 

Put  on  in  a  small  pot,  2  cups  of  molasses,  and  let  it  boil.  Whip 
the  whites  of  3  eggs  until  stiff.  Let  the  syrup  get  hot  but  not  boiling  then  add 
the  eggs,  beating  continually,  until  it  gets  cold.  Add  3  drops  of  brandy.  Put 
between  and  on  top  of  the  layers. 

Lemon  Filling. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  grated  rind  of  2  lemons,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  flour, 
4  tablespoonfuls  of  lemon  juice,  1  cup  of  hot  water,  whites  of  2  eggs. 
Put  on  the  water,  when  boiling,  add  the  flour,  after  mixing  it  with  a 
little  water.  Cook  two  minutes.  Then  put  in  the  rind  and  juice.  Beat 
the  eggs  until  stiff,  then  add  them  to  the  mixture.  Cook  one  minute 
longer,  and  stand  aside  to  cool,  after  which  it  will  be  ready  for  use. 

Apple  Filling. 

Bake  5  large  apples  without  any  water.  When  soft,  take  out  the 
insides,  whipping  them  with  1  tablespoonful  of  butter.  Whip  1  cup  of 
cream,  then  add  Yi  cup  of  powdered  sugar,  mixing  all  with  the  apples. 
Set  aside  until  cold. 

Short   Cake   Filling. 

Two  eggs,  V/2  cups  of  powdered  sugar.  Beat  only  the  whites. 
Only  the  whites  must  be  used  for  this  filling.  Whip  stiff ,  then  add  the  sugar 
a  little  at  a  time  until  all  is  used.  Add  2  drops  of  vanilla;  spread  filling  on  cake, 
and  put  a  layer  of  berries  until  all  is  used,  saving  some  filling  and  berries  for 
the  top.  Serve  with  whipped  cream.  Strawberries  or  huckleberries  can 
be  used. 

Prune  Filling  for  Tarts. 

One  large  cup  of  prunes  that  have  been  cooked  until  very  soft. 
Set  aside  1  cup  of  the  juice,  and  if  it  is  not  swiet,  add  sugar  to  it, 
letting  it  cook  down  to  ]/2  a  cup.  Whip  the  whites  of  3  eggs  until  stiff, 
then  add  the  yolks  and  whip  again.  Let  the  syrup  get  hot,  but  not  boiling.  Pour 
in  the  beaten  eggs.  Return  to  the  fire,  stirring  all  the  time.  Let  it  cook 
until  thick,  then  remove,  and  when  cold  add  the  prunes.  Serve  with 
whipped  cream. 

PUDDINGS,   RELISHES,   Etc. 

Corn  Pudding. 

One  pint  of  corn  that  has  been  cut  from  the  cob,  2  eggs,  2  cups  of 
milk,  salt  and  pepper  to  the  taste.  Whip  the  eggs  and  milk,  then  add 
the  corn,  salt  and  pepper.  Bake  in  a  pudding  dish  until  set  and  a  light 
brown  color  is  obtained.  (Canned  corn  requires  less  milk  and  more 
eggs.) 

Egg   Pudding. 

Six  eggs,  1  pint  of  milk,  x/2  cup  of  grated  cheese.  1  tablespoonful 
of  chopped  parsley,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Whip  the  yolks,  adding 
milk  and  cheese.  Whip  the  whites  until  stiff,  and  mix  thoroughly.  Put 
in  a  baking  dish,  and  cook  thirty  minutes  until  set,  and  a  light  brown 
color  appears. 

•    —48  — 


Blanc-Mange. 
One  pint  of  milk,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  cornstarch,  2  eggs,  3  table- 
spoonfuls  of  sugar.  Add  a  little  of  the  milk  to  the  starch,  put  the  re- 
mainder on  to  boil,  when  boiling  add  moistened  cornstarch,  cook  2 
minutes.  Whip  the  whites  stiff,  pour  the  hot  mixture  on  the  eggs,  stirring, 
cook  1  minute.         Pour  into  a  mold,  stand  away  to  get  ice  cold. 

Mar  Lader   Rice. 

One-third  cup  of  rice,  1  pint  of  tomatoes,  1  tablespoonful  of  butter, 
salt,  pepper  to  taste.  Put  butter  and  rice  in  a  pan  on  the  fire,  shaking 
it  all  the  time  until  brown,  add  to  the  tomatoes.  Stand  on  the  back 
of  the  stove  until  tender.     Serve  hot. 

Spotted  Rice. 

Put  in  a  pan  1  tablespoonful  of  lard,  Yz  cup  of  rice  that  has  been 
picked  over,  not  wet,  add  to  the  lard,  let  it  brown,  stir,  when  a  golden 
brown.  Wash  54  CUP  of  rice,  put  all  in  a  pot,  add  1  teaspoonful  of 
curry  powder,  3  cups  of  water,  1  tablespoonful  of  butter,  cook  until 
tender,  salt  to  taste.     Serve  hot,  nice  with  chicken. 

Spanish  Cream. 

One-half  box  of  gelatine,  1  cup  of  sugar,  1  quart  of  milk,  3  eggs. 
Put  Gelatine  to  soak  in  1  cup  of  the  milk,  put  the  rest  on  to  boil,  mix 
sugar  and  yolks  together,  stir  in  boiling  milk,  cook  2  minutes.  Add 
gelatine,  stir  well,  pour  in  a  mold,  stand  away  in  a  cool  place,  whip  the 
whites  stiff  as  they  will  get  too  soggy,  add  sugar,  whip  again,  add, 
vanilla,  serve  over  the  cream. 

Apple  Extry. 
Six  large  apples,  Yz  cup  of  wine,  1  tgg,  1  small  cup  of  sifted  flour, 
1  cup  of  milk,  1  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder.  Peel  apples  and  cut 
them  in  quarters,  lay  in  a  baking  dish,  pour  over  the  wine,  bake  them 
tender,  then  remove  from  the  oven.  Beat  egg  light,  with  1/l  cup  of  sugar, 
add  milk,  then  flour,  powder,  mix  good,  pour  over  the  apples.  Bake  20 
minutes,  serve  with  sauce. 

Rice  the  Mother. 

One  pint  of  apple  pulp,  1  cup  of  rice,  1  egg,  1  cup  of  sugar,  Y  box  of 
gelatine,  1  lemon.  Soak  the  gelatine  in  1  cup  of  milk,  2  minutes,  put  on 
one  cup  of  milk,  when  boiling  add  sugar,  lemon  juice.  Cook  rice  until 
very  soft,  add  a  small  piece  of  butter,  salt  to  taste,  cook.  Mix  in  the 
apples,  then  add  all  ingredients.     Put  into  a  mold  to  get  cold. 

Rice   for   Luncheon. 
Two  cups  of  rice,  put  on  to  boil  in  salted  water,  when  tender  add 
Yi  cup  of  sugar,  Yz  nutmeg  grated,  1  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  2  eggs, 
stir  all  in  good  until  the  egg  has  cooked,  then  take  it  off  and  serve  with 
milk  or  without. 

Ha  Ha  Pudding. 

One  quart  of  cream,  1  pound  of  powdered  sugar,  1  cup  of  each 
brand,  rum,  cherry,  blackberry  wine,  6  eggs.  Break  whites,  whip  stiff, 
then  add  yolks  1  at  the  time  until  all  have  been  used,  then  add  sugar, 
leave  1  cup  for  the  cream,  then  the  wines  and  freeze.  Have  the  mold 
ready,  when  it  has  frozen  whip  the  cream  stiff  with  sugar,  put  in  the 
bottom,  then  fill  the  mold  with  pudding  and  the  rest  of  the  cream 
on  top.     Pack  with  ice  and  salt  until  ready. 

—  49  — 


Mine  Pudding. 

Three  bananas,  y2  cup  of  sugar,  1  pint  of  milk,  y2  pint  of  cream,  2 

eggs,    V/2   teaspoonfuls   of   cornstarch,  1    small    cup   of   powdered    sugar. 

Put  on  the  milk  to  boil,  mix  sugar  and  starch  and  eggs   (yolks);  cream 

all    together;  add  i  tablespoonful  of  cold    milk.       Cook   3    minutes.     Add 

1  teaspoonful  of  vanilla.  Stand  aside  to  cool.  Whip  whites  stiff;  add  pow- 
dered sugar;  whip  again;  then  add  1  cup  of  cocoanut,  stir  in  lightly  and 
drop  by  the  spoonfuls.  Grease  the  pan;  cook  to  alight  brown.  Slice  the 
bananas  and  lay  in  a  serving  dish  a  layer  of  the  bananas  and  a  layer  of  mixture 
until  the  dish  is  filled.  Sprinkle  cocoanut  on  top.  Whip  the  cream  stiff 
add  1  tablespoonful  of  powdered  sugar,  and  2  drops  of  vanilla,  and  put  on 
by  the  spoonfuls,  then  put  on  top  red  cherry.  Stand  aside  to  cool  until  ready 
to  serve. 

Sun  Light  Snow  Pudding. 
One-half  box  of  gelatine,  whites  of  3  eggs,  3  cups  of  boiling  water. 
Put  gelatine  in  a  cup  of  cold  water,  when  gelatine  has  dissolved,  add  3 
cups  of  boiling  water  and  \y2  cups  of  sugar  and  juice  of  1  lemon.  Stir 
well,  stand  in  a  cold  place,  when  it  begins  to  gell,  whip  whites  stiff, 
whip  all  together  until  light,  then  stir  in  l/2  cup  of  strained  strawberry 
very  lightly,  do  not  mix  jn  good,  so  as  not  to  get  a  very  deep  color. 
Any   kind  of  red   berry  will   do. 

Noodle  Pudding. 
Boil  y2  cup  of  B.  C.  Noodle  in  1  pint  of  milk,  until  very  soft,  then 
let  it  cool,  with  a  spoon  whip  1  cup  of  sugar  and  4  eggs,  add  1  quart  of 
milk,  flavor  with  vanilla.         Bake  in  a  pan  of  hot  water  until  set  and  a 
light  brown.     Serve  hot. 

Sponge  Cake  Pudding. 
One  quart  of  milk,  4  eggs,  1  teaspoonful  of  vanilla,  l/2  cup  of  sugar, 

2  cups  of  stale  sponge  cake.  Whip  whites  of  eggs,  add  milk,  vanilla, 
cake,  after  it  is  crumbled  up  fine,  put  it  in  a  baking  dish,  bake  until  set 
and  brown  or  it  can  be  steamed  2  hours.     Serve  with  a  sauce  hot  or  cold. 

Bread  and  Butter  Pudding. 
Four  slices  of  bread,  cut  in  four  parts,  lay  in  a  baking  dish,  whip  2 
eggs  then  add  r/2  cup  of  sugar,  3  cups  of  milk,  1  teaspoonful  of  vanilla, 
pour  over  the  buttered  bread,  bake  30  minutes. 

Date  Pudding. 
Three-quarter  cup  of  flour,  1  tablespoonful  of  butter,  1  teaspoonful 
of  baking  powder,  3  cups  of  cake  crumbs,  y2  cup  of  sugar,  y2  cup  of 
dates.  Cream  butter,  sugar  together,  add  egg,  whip  again,  add  milk,  mix 
well,  use  a  little  flour,  sprinkle  over  the  dates,  sift  flour  with  powder, 
dates  last,  steam  3  hours.     Serve  with  sauce. 

Fig   Pudding. 

One  quart  of  fresh  figs,  1  tablespoonful  of  cornstarch,  1  pint  of  milk, 

2  eggs,  1  cup  of  sugar,  mix  cornstarch,  sugar  together,  whip  eggs,  add 

sugar,  chop  figs  fine,  lay  them  at  the  bottom  of  the  pan,  add  teaspoonful 

of  vanilla  to  the  eggs  and  cover  the  figs,  cook  15  minutes.         Serve  cold. 

Rice   Pudding. 

Three  tablespoonfuls  of  rice,  1  quart  of  milk,  1  cup  of  sugar,  l/2 
nutmeg.  Pick  over  and  wash  the  rice,  put  all  in  a  baking  dish,  when 
brown  stir  well  until  it  is  brown  creamy.     Serve  cold. 

—  50—  i 


Rice  Pudding. 

One-half  cup  of  rice  on  the  fire  in  1  pint  of  milk,  cook  tender, 
little  salt,  2  eggs  with  Yz  cup  of  sugar,  add  to  the  rice,  when  cold  cook 
in  slow  oven  20  minutes  or  until  set,  flavor  to  taste.  Serve  cold  with 
plain  cream. 

Rice  Grumbles. 

Six  tablespoonfuls  of  rice,  1  quart  of  milk,  1  lemon,  2  cups  of 
cocoanut,  1  cup  of  brandy.  Put  the  milk  on  to  boil  with  rice,  boil 
tender,  while  boiling,  add  1  tablespoonful  of  butter,  soak  cocoanut, 
brandy,  whip  the  whites  of  2  eggs,  then  add  yolks,  whip  again,  add  1 
cup  of  sugar,  whip  again,  add  to  the  rice  while  hot,  when  cold  add  juice 
of  Y2  lemon.  Put  in  dish,  lay  each  layer,  cocoanut  for  the  top.  Whip 
whites  of  2  eggs,  put  on  the  top,  brown,  serve  cold. 

Caramel  Pudding. 

One-third  cup  of  sugar  in  a  pan,  stand  it  where  it  will  brown,  not 
burn,  when  it  is  dark,  add  Yz  cup  of  water,  let  it  boil  down  to  %  cup 
then  take  it  off  the  fire,  beat  4  eggs  with  1  cup  of  sugar,  1  teaspoonful  of 
vanillathen  add  the  milk  and  caramel,  pour  into  a  baking  dish,  stand  in  a  pan  of 
hot  water  in  the  oven,  let  it  cook  until  light  brown  and  set,  remove  at 
once.     Serve  ice  cold  with  whip  cream. 

Silver  Pudding. 

One  and  one-half  cups  of  flour,  Yz  cup  of  sugar.  The  whites  of  3 
eggs,  teaspoonful  of  butter.  Cream  the  butter,  sugar  together,  add  Yz 
cup  of  milk,  whip  again,  add  flour,  sifted  flour  with  1  teaspoonful  of 
baking  powder,  mix  well  all  together,  whip  the  eggs  stiff,  have  the 
steamer  ready  and  greased.  Add  the  eggs,  pour  into  the  steamer  at 
once,   cook  2  hours.     Serve  with  sauce,  let  the   pudding  be   hot. 

Van  Queen  Pudding. 

Half  box  of  gelatine,  \Yz  pints  of  water,  Yz  lemon,  1  pint  of  cooked 
fruit  juice,  1  drop  of  red  currant.  Put  on  the  water  to  boil,  leave  Yz 
pint  to  cover  the  gelatine,  when  the  water  boils,  add  to  the  gelatine, 
divide  into  three  parts.  Add  lemon  juice,  2  parts  of  juice  to  one  part, 
stand  aside  to  set,  when  set  put  them  together  in  layers,  stand  aside  in  a 
cool   place.         Serve   with  whipped    cream. 

Tapioca  Pudding. 

Three  tablespoonfuls  of  tapioca,  Yz  cup  of  sugar,  1  teaspoon  of 
vanilla,  1  whole  egg,  2  whites  of  eggs.  Whip  sugar  and  egg  together,  put 
tapioca  on  in  1  pint  of  cold  milk,  in  a  double  boiler,  cook  soft,  stand 
aside  to  cool,  add  beaten  whites  and  1  cup  of  milk,  half  of  the  beaten 
whites.  Save  the  rest  for  the  top,  cook  in  a  slow  oven,  drop  the  whites 
over  the  top,  drop  by  drop  and  brown.     Serve  cold. 

Cream  Bread  Pudding. 

For  this  take  the  inside  of  the  bread,  1  cup  of  bread,  1  pint  of  milk, 
1  cup  of  sugar,  2  eggs.  Put  the  bread  in  the  milk,  soften,  drain  the 
milk  off,  add  sugar  to  the  eggs.  Whip  till  very  light,  add  the  bread, 

mix  it  good,  then  add  the  milk,  cook  in  a  slow  oven  until  set  and  light 
brown.     Serve  with   lemon  sauce. 

—  51  — 


Raisin  Pudding. 

One  cup  of  raisins,  2  eggs,  1  cup  of  milk,  y2  cup  of  sugar.  Soak 
the  raisins  in  the  milk  until  soft  take  half  of  the  milk,  add  2  beaten  eggs 
and  sugar,  thicken  the  raisins  with  1  teaspoonful  of  cornstarch,  stand 
aside  to  cool.  Whip  eggs,  sugar  together,  add  milk,  return  to  baking 
pan,  pour  over  the  milk,  eggs,  sugar,  beaten  together.  Cook  until  set 
and  light  brown.     Serve  cold  with  a  sauce. 

Egg   Custard. 

Four  eggs,  1  quart  of  milk,  */2  cup  of  sugar.  Beat  the  eggs  not  too 
light  with  the  sugar,  add  vanilla,  pour  in  a  baking  dish,  stand  in  hot 
water,  in  a  pan.      Bake  in  a  hot  oven  until  set  and  a  light  brown. 

Cup  Custard. 
Cup  custard  made  same  as  egg   custard    only  put  them  in  cups,  bake 
in  a  pan  of  water.     Serve  ice  cold. 

Blackberry  or  Huckleberry  Stew. 
One  or  2  boxes  of  berries,  pick  them  over,  wash,  then  put  on   the 
fire  with  a  piece  of  butter.     If  one  box   l/2  cup  of  water,  if  2  boxes    1 
cup  of  water,  cook  5  minutes,  put  in  drop  dumplings,  cook   15  minutes. 
Serve  hot  or  cold.     This  is  nice  for  luncheon. 

Snow  Pudding. 
Three  tablespoons  of  gelatine,  y2  cup  of  sugar,  1  tablespoonful  of 
lemon  juice,  1  pint  of  boiling  water,  wet  gelatine  with  <<.-  gill  of  cold 
water,  let  stand  3  minutes,  then  pour  on  the  pint  of  boiling  water  when  it  is 
light  stiff,  whip  the  2  eggs,  add  to  gelatine,  whip  5  minutes  hard.  Pour 
in  a  mold  to  harden.     Serve  with  sauce. 

Cottage  Pudding. 
One  cup  of  flour,   y2  cup  of  sugar,   1   egg,   1   teaspoonful   of  baking 
powder,    1    teaspoonful    of    butter.     This    is    not    melted    butter;   cream 
sugar  and  butter  together,  add  beaten  egg,  milk,  flour,  mix  with  powder. 
Bake  in  a  shallow  pan,  20  minutes.     Serve  with  liquid  or  hard  sauce. 

Tapioca  Pudding. 

Four  tablespoons  of  tapioca,  1  quart  of  milk,  y$  cup  of  sugar,  1 
grain  of  salt,  2  eggs,  soak  tapioca  in  the  milk,  30  minutes.  Put  it  on 
in  a  double  boiler,  cook  until  soft,  stand  aside  to  cool,  add  yolks,  whip 
again  then  add  sugar,  whip  until  all  is  creamy.  Add  to  tapioca;  put  in  a 
pudding  dish,  cook  until  light  brown  and  has  set,  add  vanilla. 

Mousseline  Pudding. 
One  box  of  gelatine,  3  lemons,  1  pint  of  nuts  after  they  are  ground, 
2  cups  of  sugar,  y2  pint  of  cream.  Soak  gelatine  in  1  pint  of  cold  water, 
when  soft  add,  sugar,  lemon  juice,  1  quart  of  boiling  water,  then  nuts, 
stand  aside  to  get  cold,  then  add  cream  and  freeze.  Serve  with 
mousseline  sauce. 

Tapioca  Tie  Me  Not. 

One  half  cup  of  tapioca,   1   cup  of  sugar,  2  eggs,   1   quart   of  milk, 

teaspoonful    of   vanilla,   pinch    of    salt.        Cut  fine    I    pineapple   and  three 

bananas  together,  sprinkle  over  1  cup  of  sugar.     Cook  tapioca  in  milk, 
add  half  of  the  fruit,  whip  eggs  and  add  while  hot,  put  the  rest  of  the 

fruit   in   a   dish,   pour   over   the   mixture.     Stand   aside    to    get    ice  cold. 
Serve   with    sauce. 

—  52- 


Cranberry  Sauce. 

Wash  2  quarts  of  cranberries,  add  2  cups  of  water,  cook  10  minutes, 
remove  from  fire  and  strain.  Add  4  cups  of  sugar,  then  cook  10 
minutes  more.     Then  put  in  a  wet  mold,  stand  aside  to  gell. 

Cranberry  Sauce. 

Pick  over  and  wash  1  quart  of  cranberries,  add  1  cup  of  water,  cook 
10  minutes.  Add  2  cups  of  sugar,  cook  10  minutes  longer.  Strain  and 
put  into  a  mold  to  gell. 

Mint  Sauce. 

Wash  the  mint,  chop  it  until  there  is  a  cup  full  1  cup  of  vinegar, 
Yi  cup  of  sugar.  Add  the  sugar  to  the  mint,  let  it  stand  20  minutes, 
then  add  vinegar,  let  it  stand  30  minutes.  Serve  with  hot  or  cold  meats. 

Sauce  for  Banana  Corns 

One-half  cup  of  powdered  sugar,  1  tablespoonful  of  cornstarch,  1 
egg,  1  cup  of  milk.  Boil  the  milk,  and  mix  the  starch  in  a  little  of  the 
cold  milk,  just  enough  to  pour.  Add  to  the  boiling  mirk,  cook  until  thick, 
add  1  cup  of  brandy,  stir  well.  Then  whip  the  white  of  the  egg  stiff, 
add  yolk,  whip  again,  then  add  sugar,  whip  until  stiff,  add  to  the  sauce. 
Serve  hot  or  cold. 

Horseradish  Sauce. 

One  cup  of  water,  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  1  spoonful  of  salt.  Mix 
a  little  flour  and  water,  thicken  the  thickness  -of  cream,  cook  2  minutes. 
Remove  from  fire,  add  1  tablespoonful  of  horseradish,  1  tablespoon  of 
vinegar.     Serve  over  meats. 

Nut  Sauce. 

Grind  1  cup  of  nuts,  add  1  cup  of  vinegar,  2  tablespoons  of  sugar. 
Let  the  sugar  and  vinegar  boil  until  the  sugar  has  dissolved,  then  add 
the  nuts.     Serve  with  meats  hot  or  cold. 

Sauce  for  Fancy  Potatoes. 

Boil  1  large  potato  soft,  mash  with  2  tablespoons  of  butter,  cream 
until  light,  add  enough  milk  to  make  it  the  thickness  of  cream,  chop  1 
tablespoon  of  parsely  fine,  add  to  the  sauce.     Do  not  let  it  boil.     Serve  hot. 

All-a-Round  Sauce. 

This  sauce  can  be  served  with  puddings  or  sweet  entrees.  Two 
cups  of  sugar,  1  cup  of  water,  cook  the  sugar  and  water  until  it  threads. 
Whip  the  whites  of  two  eggs  stiff,  then  pour  the  hot  syrup  beating  all 
the  time  in  the  whites,  beat  until  cold,  add  brandy  1  cup.  Then  ready 
to    serve. 

Chocolate  Sauce. 

One  pint  of  milk,  1  cup  of  sugar,  1  tablespoon  of  cornstarch,  3 
tablespoons  of  chocolate,  1  egg.  Cook  the  chocolate  in  some  of  the 
milk,  let  boil  until  thick,  add  the  rest  of  the  milk,  whip  the  eggs.  Mix 
the  starch  and  sugar,  with  the  eggs,  then  stir  in  the  boiling  milk.  Cook 
2  minutes,  add  vanilla.     Serve  this  sauce  with  puddings  or  cream. 

—  53  — 


Canned  Apples. 
Put  into  a  pot  free  from  grease,  3  quarts  of  water,  2  pounds  of  sugar, 
and  1  lemon  sliced.  Peel  and  quarter  your  apples,  and  lay  them  in  cold 
water.  Place  as  many  of  them  as  you  can  into  the  pot  on  the  stove,  but 
don't  cram  them.  Allow  them  to  cook  until  tender,  using  a  fork  to  try 
them.  As  they  get  done,  take  them  out  of  the  pot  and  put  aside  into 
something  else  until  all  are  done.  Let  the  water  stand  aside  fifteen 
minutes.  Now  fill  your  jars  adding  some  juice,  and  seal.  Stand  jars 
on  the  ends  until  cool. 

Canned  Pineapples. 

Five  cups  of  sugar,  3  pints  of  water.  Peel  the  pineapple,  taking  out 
the  eyes,  then  slice.  Let  the  water  boil,  and  after  skimming  it,  put  in 
the  fruit.  After  it  has  boiled,  remove  from  the  stove  and  place  in  jars 
and  seal.     Stand  jars  on  the  ends  until  cool. 

Junket. 

One  quart  of  milk,  1  junket  tablet,  4  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar.  Put 
the  tablet  in  a  cup  with  1  teaspoonful  of  cold  water,  let  it  dissolve, 
sweeten  the  milk,  return  to  the  stove  and  let  it  get  luke  warm,  remove 
at  once  and  add  1  teaspoonful  of  vanilla,  then  add  junket.  Pour  in 
a  glass  dish  or  glasses,  stand  in  a  warm  place  until  set.  Serve  ice  cold 
with  whipped    cream. 

Arrowroot  Custard. 

Four  tablespoonfuls  of  arrowroot,  1  quart  of  milk,  y2  cup  of  sugar,  4 
egg  yolks."  Put  on  the  milk,  have  enough  to  wet  arrowroot,  mix  sugar 
and  arrowroot  together,  add  eggs,  cream  until  light,  add  milk,  pour  in  the 
boiling  milk,  stirring  all  the  time.  When  thick,  flavor  with  vanilla.  Pour 
in  a  serving  dish  until  ready  for  use. 

SAUCES,  Etc. 

Anddue  Sauce. 

One  tablespoonful  of  black  pepper,  1  tablespoon  of  mustard,  1 
tablespoonful  of  salt,  3  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar,  the  yolks  of  2  eggs. 
Mix  together  and  whip  until  light.     Stand  aside  until  ready  to  use. 

Lobster  Sauce. 

One-half  pound  of  lobster,  y2  pint  of  vinegar.  Boil  the  lobster 
until  it  is  done,  then  strain  through  a  fine  siev  Mix  well  with  the 
vinegar.     Serve  over  fish. 

Asparagus  Pea  Sauce. 

Boil  the  asparagus  in  salt  water,  1  cup  of  French  peas,  add  1  cup 
of  milk  to. the  peas,  boil  five  minutes.  Mix  1  teaspoonful  of  flour,  1 
tablespoonful  of  butter,  cream  them  together.  Mix  with  the  peas,  cook 
one  minute.     Serve  over  the  tips. 

Brandy  Cream  Sauce. 

One  cup  of  powdered  sugar,  l/2  cup  of  butter,  yolks  of  2  eggs. 
Cream  the  sugar  and  butter  together  until  light.  Add  the  yolks,  cream 
well.     Add  V2  cup  of  brandy,  drop  by  drop  until  all  is  used. 

—  54  — 


Tapioca  Chilla. 

One  cup  of  tapioca,  2  cups  of  sugar,  4  eggs,  2  quarts  of  milk,  1  cup  of 
grated  nuts.  Use  fine  tapioca  for  this,  the  large  will  not  do.  Put  on  in 
1  quart  of  milk  to  boil  20  minutes,  add  sugar,  whip  whites  stiff,  add  yolk, 
whip,  stir  in  hot  tapioca,  pinch  salt  when  cold,  add  the  rest  of  the  milk, 
1  teaspoon  of  vanilla  and  freeze.         Serve  with  sauce. 

Rice   Pudding. 

Three  level  tablespoonfuls  of  rice,  1  quart  of  milk,  ^4  cup  of  sugar. 
Wash  the  rice,  add  the  sugar,  milk,  y2  nutmeg  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Bake 
iijs  hours;  when  it  forms  a  crust,  stir  the  crust  in.  Repeat  this  until  the  i>£ 
hours  are  up,  then  leave  the  last  crust.     Stand  aside  to  cool.     Serve. 

Cucumber  Relish. 

One  peck  of  cucumbers,  slice  and  sprinkle  over  them  1  cup  of  salt, 
allowing  them  to  stand  over  night.  Squeeze  them  out  in  the  morning 
and  chop  fine.  Put  on  2  quarts  of  vinegar,  y2  cup  of  celery  seed,  1 
tablespoonful  of  horse  radish  to  boil,  then  drop  in  the  cucumbers  tD 
get  hot,  but  not  boil.     Fill  your  jars  and  seal. 

Pickled  String  Beans. 

Boil  enough  beans  to  use  2  quarts  of  vinegar.  Put  the  beans  on  in 
salted  water,  to  cook  until  tender.  Put  on  the  vinegar  with  l/2  cup  of 
spice  and  Yz  cup  of  broken  cinnamon.  Let  it  boil  live  minutes.  Drain 
the  water  off  the  beans  ,and  drop  them  into  the  vinegar  to  get  hot. 
Fill  jars  and  seal. 

Pickled  Beets. 

Take  small  beets  and  cut  off  the  tops.  Put  on  to  boil  in  hot  water 
until  tender.  When  done,  put  into  cold  water,  and  remove  the  skins. 
.Should  you  use  large  beets,  cut  them.  In  1  cup  of  vinegar,  boil  some 
cinnamon,  spice,  and  1  cup  of  sugar  for  ten  minutes.Add  the  beets, 
and  let  boil  ten  minutes  longer.     Fill  jars  and  seal. 

Pickled  Cauliflower. 

Two  cauliflowers,  2  quarts  of  vinegar,  1  quart  of  sugar,  1  gill  of 
cloves,  4  sticks  of  cinnamon.  Boil  the  vinegar,  spice,  and  sugar  to- 
gether. Put  the  cauliflower  on  in  separate  pot  to  boil  until  tender.  Now 
drop  it  into  the  hot  vinegar  and  let  it  stand  for  five  minutes.  Fill  the 
jars  and  seal,  after  adding  all  the  vinegar. 

Preserved  Peaches. 

Five  pounds  of  peaches,  after  they  are  peeled  and  the  seeds  have 
been  taken  out,  4  pounds  of  sugar,  1  quart  of  water.  Put  on  the  sugar, 
water,  and  peaches.  Let  cook  until  tender  and  thick,  then  fill  your  jars 
and  seal. 

To  Can  Plumbs. 

Take  6  pounds  of  plums  and  5  pounds  of  sugar.  Pour  boiling  water  over 
plums  to  remove  skins.  Put  plums  and  sugar  in  1  quart  of  cold  water  and 
cook  six  minutes.     Fill  jars,  seal  and  stand  upside  down  until  cold. 

—  55  — 


Desirable    Cream   Sauce. 

Two  tablespoons  of  powdered  sugar,  1  egg,  2  drops  of  red  coloring, 
y2  cup  of  sugar,  Yz  cup  of  water,  54  cup  of  brandy,  1  teaspoon  of  corn- 
starch. Put  on  the  water  to  boil,  mix  sugar  and  starch  with  a  little  of 
water,  add  to  the  water  the  cornstarch,  boil  about  2  minutes,  whip  the 
egg,  and  powdered  sugar  together  until  light,  add  to  the  hot  mixture. 
Stir  well,  stand  aside  to  cool.  When  cold  add  brandy  and  coloring, 
let  it  get  cold.     Serve  with  the  cream.     This  is  very  nice. 

Sauce  for  Chocolate  Rangle. 

One-half  pint  of  milk,  1  teaspoon  of  cornstarch,  ^  cup  of  sugar.  Mix 
the  cornstarch  with  a  little  of  the  cold  milk,  add  to  the  boiling  milk, 
whip  the  white  of  one  egg  stiff,  drop  in  the  yolk,  whip  again,  add  1  gill' 
of  cherry  wine  and  stir  in  the  boiling  mixture.  Cook  1  minute.  Set 
aside  until  cold  then  serve  on  the  pudding. 

Sauce  for  Bread  and  Butter  Puddings. 

One  cup  of  water,  Yk  cup  of  sugar,  1  teaspoon  of  vanilla,  1  teaspoon 
of  cornstarch,  1  cup  of  milk.  Cook  the  butter,  sugar,  and  water  until 
half  has  boiled  away,  then  add  the  milk,  leave  enough  to  wet  the  starch, 
stir  in  the  boiling  milk,  cook  2  minutes,  cool  then  serve. 

Mousseline  Sauce. 

Two  eggs,  1  cup  of  sugar,  1  cup  of  sherry.  Whip  the  yolks  light, 
add  sugar,  whip  until  light  and  creamy,  then  add  wine.  Serve  over  the 
pudding  ice  cold. 

Sauce  for  Cocoanut  Frazilee. 

Whip  the  yolks  and  1  cup  of  powdered  sugar  together  until  very 
light,  then  add  y2  cup  of  brandy.     Serve  over  the  Frazilee. 

Pinter  Sauce. 

One-half  pint  of  cream,  Yi  cup  of  powdered  sugar,  y2  cup  of  brandy 
Make  tha  sauce  when  ready  foruse,  whip  the  cream  stiff,  add  the  sugar,  brandy 
and  whip.     Serve  with  the  Pinter. 

Yellow  Hard  Sauce. 

One  cup  of  butter,  2  cups  of  sugar,  yolk  of  2  eggs.  Cream  the  sugar 
and  butter  together  until  very  light,  then  add  the  yolks  little  by  little, 
cream  until  very  light,  then  add  y2  cup  of  brandy  drop  by  drop  until  all 
is  used,  add  1  tablespoonful  of  vanilla. 

Lemon  Sauce. 

Two  and  one-half  cups  of  water,  1  cup  of  sugar,  1  large  tablespoonful 
of  butter,  1  tablespoon  of  flour.  Put  the  water  on  to  boil,  let  it  boil 
down  to  2  cups  of  water,  mix  the  flour  with  a  little  cold  water  enough 
to  pour  into  the  boiling  water,  cook  2  minutes,  add  butter.  Remove 
from  the  fire  and  add  the  juice  of  1  lemon,  if  large,  use  half.  Nice  for 
cream  bread  pudding. 

—  56  — 


Lemon  Sauce. 

One  cup  of  water,  \T/2  cups  of  sugar,  1  lemon,  1  tablespoon  of  flour, 
1  tablespoon  of  butter.  Put  the  water,  butter,  and  sugar  on  the  fire  to 
boil,  boil  5  minutes.  Mix  the  flour  with  a  little  water  and  thicken,  let 
cook  2  minutes,  add  juice  of  lemon.  Stand  aside  to  cool  until  ready  to 
serve. 

Lemon  Sauce. 

One  cup  of  water,  1  cup  of  sugar,  1  tablespoon  of  butter.  Boil  the 
water  and  sugar  together,  add  butter,  thicken  with  a  little  water  and 
flour,  add  1  tablespoon  of  lemon  juice,  strain.     Serve  hot  or  cold. 

Apple  Sauce. 

Eleven  apples,  1  cup  of  sugar,  y2  lemon.  Peel  apples,  cut  them  up, 
cook  in  some  water,  when  cooked  soft,  strain  through  a  hair  sieve. 
Add  sugar  and  slice  lemon,  while  hot  add  1  cup  of  cold  water.     Serve. 

Sauce  for  Fritters. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  2  cups  of  water,  1  tablespoonful  of  butter.  Cook 
all  together,  boil  down  to  1%  cups,  then  thicken  the  thickness  of  cream. 
Add  1  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  and  strain.  This  sauce  can  be  served  with 
any  kind  of  fritters. 

Sauce  for  Ice  Cream. 

One  quart  or  one  can  of  strawberries,  1  cup  of  powdered  sugar,  1 
egg.  Whip  the  white  stiff,  add  the  yolk,  whip  until  light,  add  sugar 
little  by  little  until  all  is  used,  then  add  crushed  berries.  Ready  to  serve 
on  creams. 

Orange  Sauce. 

One  cup  of  powdered  sugar,  l/x  cup  of  butter.  Cream  the  butter 
and  sugar  together  until  very  light.  Cut  oranges  in  little  pieces  after 
they  are  peeled  and  all  pulp  is  removed.  Mix  all  together.  This  sauce 
must  not  get  too  cool  and  it  must  not  get  too  warm  so  as  to  melt  the  butter. 

Sauce  for  Snow  Pudding. 

Two  cups  of  milk,  1  egg,  Yi  tablespoonful  of  cornstarch,  3  table- 
spoonfuls  of  sugar.  Put  the  milk  on  to  boil,  mix  starch,  sugar,  and  egg 
together,  pour  into  the  boiling  milk,  cook  2  minutes,  take  off  and  flavor 
with  vanilla,  then  add  a  pinch  of  salt. 

Sauce  for  Apple  Snow. 

Two  yolks,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  J4  teaspoonful  of  cornstarch, 
1  cup  of  milk.  Put  the  milk  on  to  boil,  mix  the  sugar  and  cornstarch 
together,  add  the  eggs,  cream  until  light.  Add  to  the  boiling  milk, 
cook  2  minutes,  then  add  a  pinch  of  salt,  1  teaspoonful  of  vanilla.  Serve 
very  cold. 

Hard  Sauce. 

Two  and  one-half  cups  of  powdered  sugar,  1  cup  of  butter.  Cream 
all  together  until  very  light  and  creamy,  then  drop  in  the  white  of  1  egg, 
cream  steady  5  minutes.  Add  1  teaspoonful  of  vanilla,  stand  it  where 
it  will  keep  cool,  do  not  let  it  get  too  hard.     Serve  with  hot  puddings. 

-57- 


Yes  It  Is  Sauce. 

One  and  one-half  cups  of  powdered  sugar,  1  cup  of  brandy,  1  pint 
of  cream.  Whip  the  cream  and  then  add  the  sugar,  add  brandy  little 
by  little,  stirring  all  the  time.  When  finished  stand  aside  to  keep  eool  on 
ice.  When  ready  to  serve  add  y2  cup  of  ground  nuts.  Serve  with 
vanilla  ice  cream,  keep  very  cold. 

White   Sauce   for  Pudding. 
One  pint  of  milk,  1  tablespoonful  of  cornstarch,  y2  cup  of  sugar,  2 
eggs,    1   tablespoonful  of  brandy,  or  vanilla.     Put   the  milk  on   to  boil 
mix  the  sugar  and  starch  together,  mix  with  a  little  of  the  cold  miik, 
then  stir  it  in  the  boiling  milk,  cook  2  minutes.        Whip  whites  stiff.     Pour 
the  sauce  on  the  eggs,  stir  while  pouring;  then  add  brandy.     Serve  ice  cold. 

Peach  Sauce. 

Two  tablespoonfuls  of  soft,  not  melted,  butter,  1  cup  of  sugar. 
Cream  together  until  light  and  creamy.  Mash  the  peaches  very  fine,  add 
little  at  a  time  stirring  all  the  time  until  all  is  used. 

Hard  Sauce. 

One  cup  of  butter,  2y2  cups  of  powdered  sugar.  Cream  until  light, 
add  the  whites  first,  cream  3  minutes  longer,  then  add  the  yolks,  cream 
3  minutes,  then  add   1   tablespoonful  of  vanilla.     Ready  to  serve. 

Hard  Sauce. 

One-half  cup  of  butter,  V/2  cups  of  powdered. sugar.  Cream  all  to- 
gether until  very  light,  add  1  teaspoonful  of  vanilla.     Ready  for  use. 

Hard  Sauce. 

One-half  cup  of  butter,  2  cups  of  sugar,  1  egg.  Cream  all  together 
until  light,  add  white  of  the  egg,  cream  again,  then  add  1  teaspoon  of 
vanilla,  stir  in  well.     It  is  ready  for  use. 

Sauce  for  Cereal  Croquettes. 
One  cup  of  milk,  y2  cup  of  sugar,  1  tablespoonful  of  butter.      Put  all 
on  to  boil,  thicken  it  very  little,  then  add  vanilla. 

Sauce  for  Tapioca  Chilla. 

Whip  the  whites  of  2  eggs  stiff,  add  1  cup  of  powdered  sugar,  whip 
until  stiff,  then  add  l/z  cup  of  brandy.     Serve  over  the  Chilla. 

Liquid   Sauce. 
One  cup  of  sugar,  1  cup  of  water,  2   tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  y2  nut- 
meg.    Grate  nutmeg,  add  water,  and  butter,  boil  20  minutes,  thicken  with 
a  little  flour  and  water,  not  quite  as  thick  as  cream,  strain.     It  is  ready  to 
serve. 

Apple  Snow. 
Three  large  apples. peeled  and  grated,  1  cup  of  powdered  sugar,  sprin- 
kled over  apples  to  prevent  them  turning  dark.       Break  in  the  whites  of  three 
eggs  and  whip  the  mixture  for  }£  of  an  hour,  and  save  yolks  for  sauce. 

Giblet  Gravy. 

After  roasting  the  chicken  and  thickening  the  gravy,  chop  the  gib- 
lets fine,  having  first  boiled  them.  Add  to  the  gravy  which  is  served  witfc 
the   chicken. 

-58- 


JELLIES,    Etc. 

Prune  Jelly. 

Two  cups  of  prunes,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  gelatine,  V2  cup  of  sugar, 
juice  of  y2  lemon,  enough  water  to  moisten  the  gelatine,  and  pour  over 
2  cups  of  boiling  water.  Whip  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  and  sugar  together 
and  pour  in  the  jelly.  Add  the  sugar  and  lemon  juice  to  the  prunes,  and 
when  the  jelly  has  begun  to  set,  put  in  the  prunes.  Stand  away  to 
harden,  and  serve  cold. 

Currant  Jelly. 

Put  fruit  on  stove  to  cook.  After  it  has  cooked  sufficiently,  put 
into  a  bag  and  hang  it  over  a  pot  to  drip  over  night.  In  the  morning 
add  sugar,  using  1  pound  of  sugar  to  each  pint  of  juice.  Place  on  •;he 

stove  to  cook  thirty  minutes.     Skim  off  the  foam  and  put  into  glasses. 
Cover  and  stand  aside  to  harden. 

Wine  Jelly. 

One-half  box  of  gelatine,  1  pint  of  wine,  1  lemon,  1  cup  of  sugar. 
Soak  the  gelatine  in  y2  cup  of  cold  water.  When  soft,  add  V/2  cups  of 
boiling  water,  then  sugar,  lemon  juice,  and  wine.  Put  in  a  mould,  and 
set  aside  to  get  hard.     Serve  plain  or  with  whipped  cream. 

Tutti  Frutti  Jelly. 

One  cup  of  dates,  1  cup  of  sliced  bananas,  1  cup  of  sliced  oranges, 
1  cup  of  white  grapes,  1  box  of  gelatine,  3  lemons,  2  cups  of  sugar.  Let 
the  gelatine  soak  three  minutes  in  1  pint  of  cold  water.  Squeeze  in  the 
juice  of  the  lemons,  then  add  3  pints  of  boiling  water.  Put  in  the  sugar, 
then  stand  aside  until  it  starts  to  jell,  then  stir  a  little.  It  should  be  in 
a  mould.  Now  drop  in  a  piece  of  fruit,  placing  one  piece  in  each  corner 
and  in  the  centre.  Add  the  gelatine,  and  fill  the  mould  making  a  layer 
of  fruit  and  one  of  gelatine.     The  last  layer  should  be  gelatine. 

Peach  Elender. 

Two  quarts  of  peaches,  1  pint  of  grated  nuts,  V/2  cups  of  sugar,  1 
cup  of  cream,  1  cup  of  red  cherries,  peel  peaches.  Cut  them  up  fine,  put 
the  peaches,  sugar,  brandy  in  a  jar,  fasten  tight  and  stand  2  hours,  this 
may  be  baked  or  frozen,  if  frozen  mix  in  cream  and  whip  the  whites, 
add  sugar,  x/2  cup  of  brandy.  Serve  over  if  baked,  whip  white,  put  on 
the  top,  run  it  in  the  oven  and  let  it  come  to  a  light  brown.  Serve 
cold  with  whipped  cream. 

Floating  Island. 

Four  eggs,  first  brake  the  eggs,  take  the  yolks  and  3  cups  of  milk,  1 
tablespoonful  of  flour,  not  heaping,  1  cup  of  sugar,  whip  eggs,  add  sugar; 
add  to  the  boiling  milk,  cook  until  thick  and  flavor,  put  it  in  a  dish 
whip  thewhites  stiff,  add  ]/2  cup  of  sugar,  have  water  boiling,  drop  in 
by  the  spoonfuls;  cook,  turn  over,  let  cook,  take  out,  put  on  the  custard 
after  the  eggs  are  put  on  top  drop  jelly  on  eggs  in  places.     Serve  cold. 

To   Serve   Pineapple. 

First  wash  and  dry;  with  knife  or  spoon,  cut  around  each  eye,  it 
will  come  out  very  easily.     Serve  on  a  plate  with  powdered  sugar. 

—  59- 


Fruit  Barby. 


Strawberry  Pinter. 

Two  cups  of  sugar,  2  quarts  of  berries,  1  pint  of  milk,  1  large  table- 
spoonful  of  gelatine,  2  eggs.  Use  enough  of  the  milk  to  moisten 
gelatine,  put  the  rest  on  to  boil,  when  boiling  hot,  mix  sugar;  starch, 
whip  the  eggs,  mix  all  together,  stir  in  hot  milk,  cook  until  thick,  when 
cold  stir  in  crushed  berries,  set  aside  to  keep  cold  until  ready  to  serve, 
with  sauce. 

Strawberry  Hall. 

Two  boxes  of  berries,  V2  pint  of  cream,  1  cup  of  powdered  sugar, 
whites  of  3  eggs.  Whip  eggs  in  one  bowl,  cream  in  another,  whip  sugar 
in  the  eggs  then  mix  in  whipped  cream,  crush  berries  just  a  little,  add  1  cup 
of  sugar,  put  layer  of  each  until  the  dish  is  filled,  leave  enough  for  the 
top,  stick  whole  berries  on  top  the  cream.  Serve  ice  cold.  Blackberry 
Hall  is  made  the  same  way. 

Orange  Drum-a-Lon. 

Eight  large  oranges,  1  cup  of  sugar  2  cups  of  cherry  juice,  1  lemon, 
2  tablespoonfuls  of  mint  juice,  pound  of  fresh  mint,  squeeze  out  the  juice, 
cut  the  tops  of  the  oranges  just  large  enough  to  put  in  a  spoon,  take  out 
the  insides,  put  the  skin  in  ice  water  to  harden,  then  squeeze  the  pulp, 
get  out  all  of  the  juice,  mix  all  together  and  fill  the  orange  skins,  use 
straws  or  small  spoon.     This  can  be  used  as  a  cold  soup. 

Cocoanut  Frazilee. 

One  cocoanut,  2  cups  of  sugar,  whites  of  3  eggs,  1  quart  of  milk,  y2 
box  of  gelatine,  1  cup  of  cold  water.  Put  on  the  milk,  let  it  come  to 
boiling  point,  add  together  to  gelatine,  whip  eggs  stiff,  whip  in  the  sugar, 
add  gelatine,  then  stir  in  the  cocoanut,  while  it  is  hot,  add  a  pinch  of 
salt  and  freeze  the  cocoanut,  must  be  ground  up  or  grated.  Serve  with 
sauce. 

Stuffed  Apples. 
Take  6  large  apples,  cut  off  the  top  skin,  take  out  the  inside,  cut  up  fine 
do  not  chop  them,  mix  with  them  1  cup  of  sugar,  a  little  cinnamon;  mix 
all  together,  put  back  in  the  skin,  put  over  the  top  a  bit  of  butter,  bake 
30  minutes  or  until  the  apples  are  done.  Serve  hot  or  cold.  Nice 
with  pork. 

Peach  Balls. 

Peel  peaches,  take  out  the  pits,  make  a  dough  with  \l/2  cups  of  flour, 
1  gill  of  sugar,  1  teaspoonful  of  butter,  1  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder. 
Add  milk  to  make  it  roll  out  thin;  put  the  peaches  together  and  roll 
in  sugar  then  roll  them  in  the  dough  that  is  rolled  out:  fry  in  deep  fat. 
Serve  with  a  liquid  or  peach  sauce. 

—  60  — 


Fried  Apples. 

Wash  and  dry,  large  apples,  slice  them  thick,  put  a  small  piece  of 
butter  in  the  pan,  lay  in  apples,  fry  brown  on  both  sides,  do  not  lake 
out  until  tender,  sift  powdered  sugar  over  them.     Serve  hot  or  cold. 

CREAMS,  SHERBETS,  Etc. 

Blackberry    Cream. 

One  quart  of  milk,  %  pint  of  cream,  4  eggs,  pinch  of  salt.  Put  the 
milk  on  to  boil,  and  whip  the  eggs,  then  add  them  to  the  boiling  milk. 
Cook  uhtil  thick.  Take  off  and  add  the  salt.  Strain  the  berries  through 
a  sieve  and  mix  all  together  and  freeze. 

Russian  Cream. 

Three  teaspoonfuls  of  gelatine,  1  quart  of  milk,  5  eggs,  l/i  cup  of 
sugar.  Wet  the  gelatine  with  2  tablespoonfuls  of  milk.  Put  on  the  rest 
to  boil.  Whip  the  yolks  and  ^  of  a  cup  of  sugar,  adding  the  same  to 
the  boiling  milk.  Stir  until  thick.  Remove  from  the  stove.  Whip  the 
whites  of  the  eggs  until  stiff,  and  add  to  the  custard,  stirring  well.  Add 
a  little  lemon  juice,  and  pour  into  a  wet  mould.  Set  aside  to  harden, 
and  serve  with  whipped  cream. 

Ginger  Ice  Cream. 
One  quart  of  milk,  1  pint  of  cream,  2  cups  of  sugar,  1  tablespoon- 
ful  of  gelatine,  1  ounce  of  ginger.  Pour  over  the  ginger  1  gill  of  boil- 
ing water,  and  cover,  letting  it  stand  until  the  ginger  has  settled  to  the 
bottom.  Put  the  gelatine  to  soak  in  a  gill  of  milk.  Strain  the  ginger 
through  a  bag,  and  bring  to  boiling  point,  then  add  the  gelatine.  Put  on 
the  milk  to  boil.  Whip  3  eggs,  and  add  the  sugar,  then  whip  again.  Add 
this  to  the  boiling  milk.      Freeze. 

Vanilla  Ice  Cream. 
One  quart  of  milk,  2  eggs,  1  tablespoonful  of  cornstarch,  2  cups  of 
sugar,  y2  pint  of  cream,  1  tablespoonful  of  vanilla,  2  saltspoons  of  salt. 
Put  on  the  milk  to  boil.  Mix  the  sugar  and  starch  together.  Now 
whip  the  eggs,  then  add  the  sugar  and  whip  again.  Mix  this  with  the 
boiling  milk.  When  thick  take  off  the  stove  and  put  in  the  salt  and 
vanilla,  then  cream,  and  freeze. 

Macaroon   Ice    Cream. 

Two  quarts  of  milk,  V/2  cups  of  sugar,  1  tablespoonful  of  gelatine,  3 
eggs,  1  tablespoonful  of  salt,  and  1  teaspoonful  of  vanilla.  Cream  the 
sugar  and  eggs  together  until  light.  Add  to  the  milk  which  has  boiled, 
after  taking  out  1  cup  to  put  the  gelatine  in.  When  the  cream  has 
cooked  until  thick,  remove  from  the  fire  putting  in  the  gelatine.  Strain, 
adding  the  cream  and  macaroons  which  have  been  mashed  fine.  Add  the 
vanilla  and  salt,  then  freeze. 

Pineapple  Ice  Cream. 
One  quart  of  cream,  1  pint  of  milk,  1  pineapple,  2  cups  of  sugar, 
the  juice  of  \l/2  lemons.  Grind  the  pineapple,  and  sprinkle  over  the 
sugar,  letting  it  stand  for  thirty-five  minutes.  Take  out  Yz  cup,  and 
strain  the  rest  of  it,  being  sure  to  get  all  the  juice.  Add  the  juice  to 
the  cream,  and  just  before  freezing  the  cream,  add  the  pulp,  then  finish. 

—  61  — 


Desirable    Cream. 

Two  quarts  of  milk,  \y2  cups  of  sugar,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  4 
eggs,  y2  teaspoonful  of  salt,  1  tablespoonful  of  vanilla.  Put  on  the  milk 
to  boil.  Mix  the  flour  and  sugar  together,  then  wet  with  a  little  cold 
milk,  and  add  to  the  boiling  milk.  Boil  two  minutes  then  remove  from 
the  stove.  Whip  the  whites  of  the  eggs  stiff,  then  drop  in  the  yolks, 
whip  again  and  add  to  the  cream  and  vanilla,  then  freeze.  Serve  with 
a  sauce. 

Ice  Cream. 

One  quart  of  milk,  2  tablespooofuls  of  flour,  1  cup  of  sugar,  1 
paltspoon  of  salt,  and  1  teaspoonful  of  vanilla.  Put  the  milk  on  to 
boil.  Mix  the  flour  and  sugar,  and  stir  in  a  little  cold  milk  to  moisten. 
Add  this  to  the  boiling  milk  and  allow  it  to  cook  two  minutes,  then 
put  to  one  side.  When  cold,  whip  the  whites  of  4  eggs  until  stiff,  then 
drop  in  the  yolks.  Whip  one  minute  longer.  Add  one  pint  more  of 
milk  to  the  custard,  and  strain  it.  Add  the  eggs,  salt,  and  vanilla,  then 
freeze. 

Midnight  Cream. 
One  half  box  of  gelatine,  1  pint  of  water,  1  box  of  strawberries,  J4 
pint  of  cream,  l/2  cup  of  wine,  2  cups  of  sugar,  whites  of  2  eggs.  Put  the 
gelatine  to  soak  in  half  the  water.  Mash  the  berries,  adding  1  cup  of 
sugar,  and  let  stand  for  ten  minutes.  Let  the  rest  of  the  water  boil, 
then  add  it  to  the  gelatine.  Next  put  in  the  rest  of  the  sugar  and 
wine.  Let  it  set,  but  not  get  hard.  Whip  the  whites  and  mix  with 
the  gelatine,  whip  again  and  add  the  berries,  then  whip  once  more,  pour 
in  a  mould  and  stand  aside  to  get  hard.     Serve  with  whipped  cream. 

Silver  Ice  Cream. 
One  tablespoon  of  flour,  1  cup  of  sugar,  1^  pints  of  milk,  the 
whites  of  6  eggs,  J*£  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Put  the  milk  on  to  boil,  after 
taking  out  enough  to  mix  the  flour  and  sugar.  After  mixing  the  flour 
and  sugar  so  as  to  be  poured  in  a  stream,  let  it  cook  for  three  minutes. 
Take  it  off  the  stove,  and  when  half  cold,  whip  the  whites  of  the  eggs 
adding  them  to  the  custard.  Put  in  the  cream  then  some  of  the 
vanilla  and  freeze. 

Ice  Cream  Without  Cream. 
Put  r  quart  of  milk  on  to  boil.  When  milk  has  boiled,  add  2  tablespoonfuls 
of  flour  and  i  cup  of  sugar  stirred  in  a  little  cold  milk  to  moisten  the  sugar. 
Let  the  mixture  cook  two  minutes,  then  stand  aside.  When  cold,  whip  the 
whites  of  4  eggs  stiff;  then  drop  in  the  yolks.  Whip  one  minute  longer.  Add 
i  pint  more  of  milk  to  the  custard,  and  strain  it.  Add  the  eggs,  a  saltspoonful 
of  salt,  and  a  tablespoonful  of  vanilla,  then  freeze. 

Spanish  Cream. 
One-half  box  of  gelatine,  I  cup  of  sugar,  i  quart  of  milk,  3  eggs.  Put  gela- 
tine to  soak  in  1  cup  of  milk;  put  the  rest  on  to  boil.  Mix  sugar  and  yolks  to- 
gether; stir  in  boiling  milk.  Cook  two  minutes;  add  gelatine;  stir  well.  Pour 
in  a  mold  and  stand  away  in  a  cool  place  to  set.  Whip  whites  of  eggs  as  stiff  as 
they  will  get.     Add  sugar.     Whip  again  and  add  vanilla.     Serve  over  cream. 

Gold  Ice  Cream. 

One  quart  of  milk,  1  %  cups  of  sugar,  the  yolks  of  7  eggs,  1  pint  of  cream. 
1  tablespoonful  of  vanilla  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Put  on  the  milk  to  boil;  whip 
the  eggs  until  light,  then  put  in  the  sugar  and  whip  again  until  very  light;  add 
to  the  boiling  milk;  cook  two  minutes,  then  take  off  the  stove  and  stand  aside 
to  cool.  Whip  the  cream  and  add  to  the  custard,  also  the  vanilla  and  salt. 
Freeze. 

—  62  — 


Orange  Frappe. 
One  quart  of  orange  juice,  \l/2  pints  of  sugar   (if  oranges  are  sour, 
but  if  sweet,  use  1  pint  of  sugar),  the  pulp  of  3  oranges.     Add  all  to- 
gether and    freeze.     Serve  with  whipped   cream. 

Strawberry  Ice. 
One  quart  of  berry  juice,  2  quarts  of  water,  1  pint  of  sugar,  and  the 
juice  of  1  lemon.     Add  the  berry  juice,  water  and  sugar  together,  then 
add  the  lemon  juice.     Stir  well  and  freeze. 

Blackberry  Ice. 
Two  quarts  of  berries,  crushed,  1  pint  of  sugar.     Mix  and  let  stand 
for  thirty  minutes.     Strain  and  add  2  quarts  of  cold  water.     Mix  well 
with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  lemon  juice,  and  freeze. 

Raspberry  Ice. 

Two  quarts  of  cold  water,  \y2  pints  of  sugar,  1  quart  of  berry  juice, 
1  juicy  lemon.  Add  the  sugar  to  the  water  and  stir  until  dissolved. 
Then  put  in  the  fruit  and  lemon  juices  and  freeze. 

Cherry  Ice. 
Two  quarts  of  water,  2  quarts  of  cherry  juice,  1  lemon,  22,A,  cups  of 
sugar.     Add  the  sugar  to  the  water  and  stir  until  dissolved.     Then  put  in 
the  fruit  and  lemon  juices  and  freeze. 

Lemon  Ice. 
Two  quarts  of  water,   1   pint  of  sugar,  2^  juicy  lemons.     Mix  the 
water  and  sugar,  stirring  until  melted.     Then  add  the  lemon  juice   and 
freeze. 

Pineapple   Sherbet. 
The  juice   of   1   pineapple,    1    cup  of  orange  juice,  2   cups   of  peach 
juice,   the  juice   of    1    lemon,   22/z   cups   of   sugar,   and  3    cups    of   water. 
Stir  until  the  sugar  has  dissolved,  then  freeze. 

Apple   Sherbet. 

Six  large  apples,  3  cups  of  sugar,  3  eggs,  1  pint  of  cream,  and 
juice  of  a  small  lemon.  Put  on  the  apples  in  a  pint  of  water  and  let 
cook  until  soft  enough  to  mash.  Add  the  sugar,  stirring  until  melted. 
Strain  through  a  fine  sieve.  Whip  the  eggs  until  stiff  and  mix  all 

together  with  the  cream  and  lemon  juice.     Now  freeze. 

Raspberry  Sherbet. 

Two  quarts  of  water,  1  pint  of  sugar,  1  quart  of  berry  juice.  1  lemon, 
1  tablespoonful  of  gelatine.  Put  the  water  and  sugar  on  to  boil  for  five 
minutes,  and  after  the  gelatine  has  soaked  in  a  little  water  for  a  while, 
and  the  sugar  and  water  has  boiled,  mix  them,  and  let  stand  aside  to  coat. 
Then  add  the  berry  and  lemon  juices  and  freeze. 

Silver  Lark  Sherbet,  No.  1. 

Two  quarts  of  milk,  4  large  cups  of  sugar,  1  tablespoonful  of 
vanilla,  and  3  lemons.  Add  the  sugar  to  the  milk,  stirring  until  dis- 
solved. Next  put  in  the  juice  of  the  lemons  and  stir.  Let  this  stand 
for  fifteen  minutes,  then  add  the  vanilla  and  freeze. 

This  is   a  very  nice  sherbet. 

Silver  Lark  Sherbet,  No.  2. 

Six  quarts  of  milk,  3  quarts  of  sugar,  2  cups  of  lemon  juice.  The  milk 
must  be  sweet.  Add  sugar,  stir  until  desolved,  then  add  lemon  juice,  stir  in 
1  tablespoonful  of  vanilla,  then  freeze. 

—  63  — 


Lemon  Sherbet. 

One  quart  of  water,  \l/2  pints  of  milk,  2  cups  of  sugar,  2  lemons, 
whites  of  2  eggs,  1  tablespoonful  of  cornstarch.  Put  on  the  water,  and 
when  it  has  boiled,  add  the  starched  mixed  with  a  little  milk.  Let  this 
cook  for  two  minutes,  and  add  the  milk.  Whip  the  eggs  until  stiff 
and  add  the  sugar,  whip  again  and  mix  with  the  other  ingredients. 
Stir  well  and  put  in  the  lemon  juice,  then  freeze. 

Blackberry  Sherbet. 
One  quart  of  berry  juice.   1   quart  of  milk,  2  cups  of  sugar.     Add 
the  sugar  to  the  juice,  and  when  it  has  dissolved,  mix  it  with  l/2  pint 
of  whipped  cream.     Then  add  the  milk  and  freeze. 

Frozen  Peaches. 
Two  quarts  of  very  soft  peaches,  2  cups  of  sugar,  the  whites  of  2 
eggs.        Mash  or  put  the  peaches  through  a  fine    sieve    and  add    a  pint 
of    cold    water.     Whip    the    whites    stiff    and    mix    the    sugar.     Whip 
again  until  all  is  light,  add  to  the  peaches  and  freeze. 

Milk  Punch. 

One  cup  of  brandy,  1  cup  of  sherry,  1  cup  of  rum,  1  gill  of  sugar, 
1  nutmeg,  j  quart  of  milk,  and  lA  pint  of  cream.  Grate  the  nutmeg 
and  mix  with  the  sugar  and  milk,  stirring  until  it  is  well  dissolved. 
Then  freeze.  Whip  cream  until  stiff.  Now  add  the  wines  and  cream  to 
the  punch,  freeze  again  until  hard.  Remove  the  dasher  and  pack  until 
ready  for  serving. 

Milk   Punch,   No.  2. 
One  pint  of  milk,  1  pint  of  cream,  l/2  pint  of  rum,  l/2  pint  of  brandy, 
y2  nutmeg.     Freeze  all  together. 

Huckleberry   Punch. 
Two  quarts  of   berries,   1   quart   of  water,   V/2   cups   of  sugar.     Put 
on  the  sugar  and  berries  to  cook  for  five  minutes.     Remove  and  strain 
through  a  fine  sieve      Mix  all  together  and  freeze. 

Coffee  Punch. 

One  quart  of  strong  coffee,  2  cups  of  sugar,  y2  pint  of  cream,  1 
cup  of  brandy.  Mix  all  together  well,  with  the  exception  of  the  cream 
and  freeze.  When  it  has  nearly  frozen,  whip  the  cream  untilstiff  and 
put  with  the  frozen  mixture,  then  pack.  Serve  in  punch  glasses,  with  a 
cherry  on  top  of  each  glass. 

To  Make  Coffee. 

Twelve  tablespoonfuls  of  coffee,     x/2  of  an  egg;  wet  with   y2   of  a  cup 

of  cold  water.     Stir  together,  then  add   12  cups  of  boiling  water.     Let 

it   boil   four   minutes,   then    take   the   pot   off,   adding   y2   a   cup   of   cold 

water.     Stand  aside  until  ready  for  use.     This  will  make  12  cups  of  coffee. 

Coffee  Brongo. 
Five  tablespoonfuls  of  coffee,  3  tablespoonfuls  of  cocoa,  3  table- 
spoonfuls  of  English  breakfast  tea;  put  the  coffee  in  the  pot,  adding  y2 
an  egg.  Wet  with  a  little  cold  water,  then  mix  the  cocoa  and  coffee  to- 
gether. Add  8  cups  of  boiling  water.  After  this  has  boiled  three  minutes, 
put  in  y2  a  cup  of  cold  water  and  drop  in  the  tea.  Cover  at  once,  and  let 
it  stand  for  five  minutes.  Now  fill  each  cup,  putting  in  1  teaspoonful  of 
brandy  and  a  slice  of  lemon.     Serve  hot. 

—  64  — 


To  Make  Tea. 

Use  1  teaspoonful  of  tea  to  each  cup  of  water.  Never  make  tea  five 
or  ten  minutes  ahead  of  time,  always  wait  until  your  are  about  to  serve, 
but  have  your  water  boiling  before  you  are  ready  to  make  it.  By  so 
doing  you  will  have  good  tea.  Never  buy  poor  tea,  as  you  will  lose 
in  the  end. 

CANDY   MAKING 

Nut  Taffy. 

Two  cups  of  sugar,  1  cup  of  water,  and  1  tablespoonful  of  butter. 
Mix  and  let  boil  until  it  becomes  brittle.  Try  it  on  a  buttered  plate. 
Crack  2  cups  of  black  walnuts,  and  spread  them  on  a  dish.  Then  pour 
over  the  candy.  Let  it  stand  until  it  gets  cold,  then  break  it  into 
small  pieces. 

Nut  Candy. 

One  pint  of  nuts  (any  kind),  1  quart  of  sugar,  1  cup  of  water. 
Boil  the  sugar  and  water  without  stirring  until  it  becomes  very  thick. 
When  it  threads,  add  1  teaspoonful  of  vanilla.  Put  the  pan  in  cold 
water,  or  sit  in  a  cool  place,  and  whip  until  it  is  white.  Then  stir  in  the 
nuts,  pouring  the  whole  on  a  flat  dish.  Mark  off  into  little  pieces,  so 
it  will  break  easily  when  cold. 

Molasses  Candy. 
Put  on  1  quart  of  molasses  and  1  tablespoonful  of  butter.  _  Let  it 
cook.  When  it  looks  thick,  try  it  on  a  butter  plate.  If  it  will  pull 
without  sticking  to  the  hands,  take  it  off  immediately.  Drop  in  a  pinch 
of  cooking  soda  then  turn  out  into  a  buttered  plate.  Do  not  let  it  get 
too  hard.     Use  flour  for  pulling  it,  as  it  is  better  than  butter. 

Chocolate  Fudge. 
One  pound  of  brown  sugar,  1  cup  of  milk,  54  cake  of  chocolate,  not 
quite  V2  cup  of  butter.  Shave  off  the  chocolate,  and  mix  all  the  in- 
gredients, allowing  it  to  cook  fifteen  minutes.  Stir  constantly.  Re- 
move from  the  stove,  and  whip  two  or  three  minutes,  after  adding  1 
teaspoonful  of  vanilla.  Spread  on  a  dish,  and  when  it  has  hardened  a 
little,  mark  off  into  little  pieces,  so  it  will  break  easily  when  it  gets  cold. 

Popcorn  Balls. 

Put  on  2  pounds  of  light  brown  sugar,  1  cup  of  water,  1  tablespoon- 
ful of  vinegar,  and  let  it  boil  until  crisp.  Have  the  popcorn  ready. 
Drop  a-  little  syrup  into  cold  water,  and  if  it  is  crisp,  add  1  quart  of  pop- 
corn, stirring  constantly.  Then  take  it  all  out  by  the  spoonful,  and 
mould  into  balls. 

HINTS  ON   REMOVING 

Ink  Stain. 
When  ink  is  first  in  the  goods  or  carpet,  cover  it  immediately  with 
baking  soda.     Pour  on  some  white  vinegar,  rubbing  it  until  the  ink  dis- 
appears.    Then  wash  with  white  soap. 

Iron  Rust. 

Wash  the  goods,  and  sprinkle  thickly  with  salt.  Wet  it  well  with 
lemon  juice,  and  lay  it  in  the  sun,  until  it  has  all  disappeared. 

—  65—  i 


INDEX 

Introduction 1 

Cereals 2 

Soups,  Chowders,  Etc .2-4 

Fish,  Oysters,  Etc 4-8 

Salads  8-11 

Vegetables  11-21 

Fowl,  Stuffings,  Etc 21-23 

Roasts,  Fries,  Etc 23-29 

Eggs  and  Omelets  29-31 

Bread  and  Biscuits 31-33 

Pies,  Pastry,  Etc 33-42 

Cakes,  Fillings,  Etc 42-48 

Puddings,  Relishes,  Etc 48-54 

Sauces,  Etc. 54-61 

Creams,  Sherbets,  Etc , 61-64 

Candy  Making   65 

Hints   65 


—  66- 


