k    -». 


C9       *^V^«*      J% 


'*•  »' 


r>^ 


*'  ^*^^    >-  •*:*j?ff* 


.«"•, 


i^ 


■^vr.*^' 


^      *«M 


'^^ 


\'^-y  v*^^/  v^^*/  "^-^^ 


THE   NEW 


AMERICAN 


Cook  Book 


CONTAINING  THOUSANDS  OF  RECIPES,  PRACTICAL  SUGGESTIONS  AND 
METHODS  FOR  THE  HOUSEHOLD,  CONTRIBUTED  BY  CELEBRATED 
CHEFS  AND  MORE  THAN  TWO  HUNDRED  EXPERIENCED  HOUSE- 
KEEPERS,   WHO    ARE    RECOGNIZED    AUTHORITIES    IN    THE 
CULINARY   ART,    AND    COVERING    EVERY    BRANCH 
OF  COOKERY;  WITH  SPECIAL  DIRECTIONS  FOR 
SERVING  AT   TABLE;     ALSO    PRESERVING, 
PICKLING,   CANDY-MAKING,   ETC.; 


Presenting  the  Most  Healthful,  Palatable,  Economical 

and  Approved  Use  of  the  Foods  of 

the  Twentieth  Century. 

(APR   6  1P«'    ' 

HUNDREDS  OF  FINE  ILLUSTRATIONS,  '^^ 


PUBLISHED  BY 

MAST,  CROWELL  &  KIRKPATRICK, 
SPRINGFIELD,  OHIO. 


/ 


An^ 
\>^  ^ 


^ 


Copyright,  1S97,  by 
MAST,  CROWELL  &  KIRKPATRICK, 

SPRINGFIELD,  OHIO. 


THE  RECIPES  IN  THIS  COOK   BOOK  WERE  CONTRIBUTED  BY  MORE 

THAN  TWO  HUNDRED  PRACTICAL  AND  EXPERIENCED 

HOUSEKEEPERS,   BESIDES  THE    FOLLOWING 


CELEBRATED   CHEFS 


.AND. 


PROMINENT   WOMEN, 


WHO  ARE   RECOGNIZED  AS  AUTHORITIES   IN   THE  CULINARY  ART. 


PAUL    RESAL,  ......  WASHINGTON,   D.   C. 

Chef  of  White  House  (Executive  Mansion). 


LOUIS    C.   ZEREGA,  .....  ST.   AUGUSTINE,   FLA. 

Chef  of  Hotel  Ponce  de  Leon. 


GUSTAVE    BERAUD,  .  o  .  .  .  .  CHICAGO,   ILL. 

Chef  of  Calumet  Club,  formerly  Chef  of  William  Astor,  New  York  City. 


A.   GALLIER,  .......  NEW  YORK  CITY. 

President  "  Soclete  Cullnaire  de  New  York,"  and  Chef  of  Hotel  Brunswick. 


LOUIS    MARCHE,  ......  CINCINNATI,  OHIO. 

Chef  of  Burnet  House. 


EUGENE    STUYVESANT    HOWARD,  ....  LOUISVILLE,  KY. 

Member  of  the  "  Universal  Cookery  and  Food  Association,"  London,  England, 
and  Chef  de  Cuisine,  "  Louisville  Hotel." 

5_ 

Copyright,  1896,  by  Mail,  Crowell  &  Kirkpatrick. 


CELEBRATED    CHEFS    AND   PROMINENT    WOMEN. 


A.   J.   PILLAUET,  ......  MINNEAPOLIS,  MINN. 

Chef  of  West  House. 


MISS    HARRIOTT    T.  WARD,  .....  BOSTON,  MASS. 

Scientific  and  Special  Teacher  of  Cooking;. 


MISS    ANGELINE    M.  WEAVER,  ....  BOSTON,  MASS. 

Instructor  Hyde  School  Kitchen. 


MISS    IDA    M.    FOSTER,  .....  WILKESBARRE,   PA. 

City  Hospital. 


MISS    AMABEL    G.   E.   HOPE,  ....  BOSTON,  MASS. 

Teacher  of  Cookery,  Boston  School  Kitchen  No.  1. 


MISS   CORNELIA  CAMPBELL    BEDFORD,  .  .  .  NEW  YORK  CITY. 

Superintendent  New  York  Cooking  School. 


MRS.  S.  T.   RORER,  ......  PHILADELPHIA,   PA. 

Author  of  "Mrs.  Rorer's  Cook  Book,"  and  Principal  Philadelphia  Cooking  School. 


MRS.   ALTHEA  SOMES,  .....  BOSTON,  MASS. 

Teacher  of  Cookery,  Manual  Training  School. 


MRS.  GESINE    LEMCKE,  .....  BROOKLYN,   N.   Y. 

Principal  German-American  Cooking  College. 


MISS    EMILY    E.  SQUIRE,  .....  WESTFIELD,   MASS. 

Author  of  "  Woronoco  Women's  Wisdom." 


MISS    MARION    L.    CAMPBELL,  ....  CLEVELAND,   OHIO. 

Friendly  Inn  Cooking  School. 


MRS.    G.   L.  GREEN,  ......  CONCORD,  N.   H. 

Formerly  Principal  Boston  Y.  JV.  C.  A.  School  of  Cookery, 
now  Teacher  of  Cooking  in  the  Concord  High  School. 


MRS.   A.   E.   KIRTLAND,  .....  MONTGOMERY,   ALA, 

Author  of  "Mrs.  Kirtland's  Cook  Book." 


CONTENTS 


[For  complete  Index  see  last  12  pages  of  the  book.] 


CHAPTER  I. 
Stocks  for  Soup,  Gravy,  Etc., 

CHAPTER  II. 
Sauces,         ...... 

Sweet  Sauces,  for  Puddings,  Etc., 

CHAPTER  III. 

Garnishes,  Purees,  Farces,  Etc., 


Soups, 

Oysters  and  Fish, 

Poultry  and  Game, 

Meats, 

Vegetables, 

Bread,  Biscuit,  Etc., 


CHAPTER  IV. 


CHAPTER  V. 


CHAPTER  VI. 


CHAPTER  VII. 


CHAPTER  VIIL 


CHAPTER  IX. 


page 
9 

11 

24 

30 
37 


CHAPTER  X. 
Eggs,  Omelets,  Breakfast  and  Tea  Dishes, 

7 


49 


76 


111 


142 


157 


173 


CONTEKTS. 


Eelishes, 

Salads, 

Pies  and  Puddings, 


CHAPTER  XI. 
CHAPTER  XII. 
CHAPTER  XIII. 


CHAPTER  XIV 


Custards  and  Desserts, 
Ices,  Creams,  Sherbets,  Etc., 
Pastes,  Icings,  Etc., 


CHAPTER  XV. 


Cakes,  Cookies  and  Fritters, 
Small  Cakes, 


Pickles  and  Catsups, 
Preserves  and  Jellies, 
Beverages, 
Candies, 
Invalid  Cookery, 


CHAPTER  XVI. 
CHAPTER  XVII. 
CHAPTER  XVIII. 

CHAPTER  XIX. 
CHAPTER  XX. 


CHAPTER  XXI. 
Practical  Suggestions  to  Young  Housekeepers, 


Bills  of  Fare  for  Family  Dinners, 

Bills  of  Fare  for  Special  Days, 

State  Dinners, 

Glossary  of  Cooking  Terms, 

Necessary  Kitchen  Utensils, 

Napery,       .... 

Suggestions  on  Carving, 

Weights  and  Measures, 

Laundry-work, 

Household  Hints  and  Recipes, 

Garnished  Skewers, 

Molds  for  Creams  and  Ices, 


187 

209 

215 

235 
262 
269 

275 
296 

301 

311 

317 

321 

325 

331 

335 
337 
338 
341 
344 
346 
349 
355 
356 
360 
366 
369 


THE 

American  Cook  Book. 


STOCKS   FOR  SOUP,  GRAVY,  ETC. 

Chapter  I. 

Stock  in  some  shape  or  other  is  the  fountlatiou  of  soups,  gravies,  etc.,  and 
on  its  quality  depends  almost  eutix'ely  the  excellenee  of  any  cuisine.  It  may  be 
briefly  descril>ed  as  the  solution  in  water  of  the  juices  of  tlie  meat,  etc.,  used  in 
its  composition,  by  a  long  and  gentle  pi'ocess  of  simmering;  and  this  essence, 
variously  flavored,  is  the  basis  of  all  gravies,  sauces,  soups,  etc.  Stocli  can  be 
made  from  almost  anytliing— fisli,  flesh  or  vegetable;  but  in  all  cases  the  process 
is  the  same,  and  its  cost  depends  entirely  on  tlie  requirements  and  the  manage- 
ment of  its  maker. 

Roughly  speaking,  stock  may  be  divided  into  two  sorts— white  and  brown; 
the  former  made  chiefly  from  white  meat,  such  as  veal,  rabbit,  poultry,  etc.;  the 
latter  from  beef,  game,  etc. 

For  ordinary  piu'poses  a  very  good  stock  can  be  made  of  broken-up  bones, 
cooked  or  raw,  and  the  trimmings,  giblets,  etc.,  of  poultry  (with  or  without  the 
addition  of  a  little  soup-meat),  simmered  gently  for  several  hoiu's  in  tlie  stock- 
pot.  But  for  high-class  cookery,  where  distinct  and  delicate  flavors  are  indis- 
pensable, each  kind,  as  white,  brown  or  game,  should  be  made  separately,  and 
if  possible  of  uncooked  meat,  bones,  etc. 

Sauces  and  gravies  of  various  kinds,  of  which  the  stocks  mentioned  above 
are  the  bases,  are  the  indispensable  adjuncts  of  nearly  every  dish,  and  must  be 
well  made  to  insure  its  success.  Entrees  and  made  dishes  depend  in  great 
measure  on  the  sauces  that  accompany  them. 

In  addition  to  savory  sauces,  there  are  also  sweet  ones,  used  in  conjunction 
with  certain  meats,  and  various  sweet  entremets,  specimens  of  which  will  be 
found  duly  given. 

The  materials  employed  in  the  composition  of  savory  sauces  are  stock,  milk, 
cream,  flour,  butter,  eggs,  water,  seasonings,  etc.,  and  from  these  are  formed  the 
standard  sauces,  which  form  part  or  more  or  less  of  all  the  others. 

ECONOMIC  STOCK  FOR  SOUP,  GRAVY,  ETC. 

Take  odds  and  ends,  such  as  about  three  or  four  pounds  of  cooked  or  raw 

bones,  the  rind  of  bacon  that  has  been  scraped,  and  the  necks,  cleaned  feet, 

gizzards  and  livers  of  chickens,  chop  these  up.  put  with  them  one  or  two  sliced 

onions,  a  little  sliced  carrot,  turnip,  celery,  and  leek  if  you  have  any,  and  a  few 

herbs,  such  as  thyme,  parsley,  bay-leaf,  and  a  few  peppercorns,  into  a  saucepan, 

9 


10  STOCKS    FOR    SOUP,    GRAVY,    ETC. 

first  putting  a  tablespoonful  of  fat  in  the  bottom  of  the  pan;  close  these  down 
in  the  saucepan  and  let  them  fry  until  the  contents  at  the  bottom  are  quite 
brown;  then  cover  up  the  bones  with  cold  water,  add  a  little  salt,  let  it  come 
gently  to  a  boil,  then  sli;im  off  all  tlie  scum,  and  let  it  simmer  steadily  for 
three  or  four  hours;  be  sure  it  does  not  boil  quickly.  When  it  is  done,  strain 
off,  and  when  cool,  talve  off  the  fat,  which  can  be  boiled  up  in  water  and  clarified 
for  other  purposes.  This  gravy  should  always  be  kept  ready,  and  requires  to  be 
boiled  up  every  day  during  warm  weather.  The  meat  taken  to  clarify  stock  can 
be  used  again  to  make  a  good,  clear,  light  stock  by  covering  it,  when  strained, 
with  cold  water  and  boiling  it  gently.  The  bones  can  be  boiled  two  or  three 
times  for  light  stock.    (See  clear  soup.) 

FISH  STOCKS. 

Take  the  bones  of  any  white  fish,  such  as  soles,  whiting,  cod,  etc.,  whether 
raw  or  cooked,  with  any  fish  trimmings,  lobster-shell,  shrimps'  heads  and  tails, 
etc.,  and  lay  them  in  a  pan,  with  a  dessert-spoonful  of  lenion-juice,  one  or  two 
sliced  onions,  a  bunch  of  herbs,  a  few  peppercorns  and  a  pinch  of  salt;  cover  it 
with  cold  water,  one  quart  for  each  pound  of  fish-bones.  Simmer  it  all  gently 
for  about  an  hour,  skimming  it  when  it  comes  to  a  boil.  For  fish  sauces  or 
bisques,  this  stock  will  only  require  to  be  freed  from  fat,  and  strained;  for  clear 
fish  stock,  it  must  be  clarified  in  the  usual  way,  with  the  whites  and  shells  of 
four  eggs  to  each  quart  of  stoelv.  For  clear  brown  fish  soups,  fry  the  onions  and 
herbs  together  in  a  little  butter,  then  lay  in  the  fish-bones  (well  and  carefully 
dried  in  a  cloth),  and  let  all  fry  together  for  fifteen  minutes;  it  should  then  be 
covered  with  cold  water,  and  finished  off  like  the  clear  fish  stock  given  above. 

GAME  STOCK. 

Take  any  kind  of  poultry  or  game  bones,  fresh  or  I'oast;  fresh  are  best.  Put 
two  ounces  of  butter  or  fat  into  a  stew-pan,  with  two  onions  cut  up  into  little 
dice  shapes,  one  large  leek,  one  carrot,  a  little  celery,  one  turnip,  a  good  bunch  of 
herbs  (thyme,  parsley,  bay-leaf,  basil  and  marjoram),  two  or  three  fresh  mush- 
rooms if  you  have  them,  and  a  pinch  of  mignonette  pepper.  Place  the  bones 
on  this,  cover  the  pan,  and  fry  the  contents  all  together  for  about  twenty  to 
thirty  minutes,  taking  care  they  do  not  burn.  Then  cover  them  well  with  stock 
(any  stock  from  veal,  rabbit  or  chicken,  such  as  above,  can  be  used),  let  it  come 
to  a  boil  then  strain,  and  let  it  simmer  gently  for  two  or  three  hours.  Strain  off 
when  cold,  remove  any  fat,  and  use.  Clarify  the  stock  with  either  rabbit,  hare 
or  beef,  allowing  half  a  pound  of  raw  beef  and  four  whites  of  eggs  to  each  quart 
of  stock.  The  meat  should  be  chopped  fine  and  mixed  with  the  whites  before 
being  put  into  the  soup,  stir  together  occasionally  till  it  boils,  then  simmer  gently 
for  about  an  hour,  and  strain. 

WHITE  STOCK. 

Take  about  twenty-five  cents'  worth  of  veal-bones,  or  the  bones  of  rabbit  or 
chicken,  put  them  into  a  pan,  with  two  or  three  sliced  onions,  a  pinch  of  salt, 
small  bunch  of  herbs— thyme,  parsley  and  bay-leaf— about  six  peppercorns,  black 
and  white,  and  two  cloves.  Cover  with  cold  water;  let  it  come  to  a  boil,  then 
skim,  and  cover  up  the  pan,  and  boil  gently  for  about  one  hour  and  a  half,  strain 
off,  remove  the  fat,  and  use. 


Chapter  II, 
AMERICAN  SAUCE. 

Put  half  a  pound  of  game  or  poultry  boues  into  a  stew-pan,  with  one  ounce 
of  butter,  half  a  sliced  onion,  one  or  two  bay-leaves,  six  crushed  peppercorns,  one 
sliced  tomato  and  one  fresh  mushroom;  cover  up,  and  let  these  fry  on  the  stove 
for  about  twenty  minutes;  then  add  one  wine-glassful  of  white  wine,  a  few 
drops  of  carmine  and  a  pint  of  brown  sauce;  let  it  boil  for  fifteen  to  twenty 
minutes,  keeping  it  slvimmed  during  the  boiling;  then  strain  through  the  tammy, 
and  mix  in  it  a  dessert-spoonful  of  chopped  fresh  mushrooms  and  a  dust  of  red 

pepper;  boil  up,  and  serve. 

ANCHOVY  CEEAM. 

Wash  and  bone  six  anchovies,  and  pound  them,  with  one  yolk  of  hard-boiled 
egg,  one  tablespoonful  of  salad-oil,  a  dust  of  red  pepper  and  a  few  drops  of 
carmine;  when  smooth,  add  half  a  gill  of  liquid  aspic  jelly,  and  rub  through  a 
tammy.  Mix  this  puree  with  a  gill  of  stiffly  whipped  cream,  and  use  when  ice- 
cold. 

ANCHOVY  SAUCE  FOR  FISH. 

Take  the  bones  from  four  anchovies,  and  pound  them  in  a  mortar  to  a  paste, 
with  one  ounce  of  butter.  Set  on  the  stove  in  a  saucepan  sufficient  butter  to 
make  half  a  plot  when  melted,  stir  into  it  the  pounded  anchovies,  a  sprinkle  of 
pepper  and  the  juice  of  half  a  small  lemon;  boil  one  minute,  and  send  to  the 
table  very  hot.    Serve  with  turbot  or  soles. 

APPLE  SAUCE. 

Pare  one  dozen  best  apples,  stew  until  tender,  stir  in  one  tablespoonful  of 

butter,  one  teacupful  of  sugar,  the  juice  of  one  lemon  and  a  little  grated  nutmeg. 

11 


12  SAUCES. 

AETICHOKE  SAUCE. 

Put  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg  iuto  a  saucepan,  let  it  melt,  put 
iuto  it  a  sliced  onion,  half  a  head  of  celery,  a  tablespoonful  of  chopped  ham,  a 
pinch  of  powdered  cinnamon,  a  salt-spoonful  of  salt  and  a  little  cayenne;  stir 
the  ingredients  constantly  over  a  fire  gently  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  adding 
more  butter,  if  necessary;  then  add  to  them  a  pound  of  Jerusalem  articholves, 
boiled  and  beaten  to  a  pulp,  and  a  pint  of  milk,  boil  all  together  until  the 
sauce  is  rather  thicker  than  cream;  strain,  boil  again,  and  serve  hot.  Boil  the 
ingredients  together  ten  minutes.  Sufficient  for  rather  more  than  a  pint  of 
sauce. 

ASPARAGUS  SAUCE. 

Boil  one  bunch  of  asparagus;  when  tender,  cut  in  pieces;  stew  in  a  teacupful 
of  cream,  Avith  salt  and  pepper;  thicken  with  butter  rolled  in  flour.  To  be 
served  with  any  delicate  fish. 

ASPIC  CREAM. 

Take  half  a  pint  of  liquid  aspic  jelly,  one  gill  of  thick,  fresh  cream,  then  add 
a  dessert-spoonful  of  tarragon  vinegar;  tamiuy,  and  use  when  cooling  for  mask- 
ing chicken,  etc. 

ASPIC  JELLY. 

Take  a  handful  of  aromatic  herbs,  such  as  burnet,  chervil  and  tarragon,  boil 
them  in  white  vinegar;  when  the  vinegar  is  well  scented,  pour  into  the  stew-pan 
some  consomme  of  fowl,  reduced;  season  well  before  you  clarify.  When  the  aspic 
is  highly  seasoned,  break  the  whites  of  four  eggs  into  an  earthen  pan,  and  beat 
them  with  an  osier  rod;  throw  the  aspic  into  the  whites  of  eggs,  and  put  the 
whole  on  the  fire  in  a  stew-pan;  keep  beating  or  stirring  till  the  jellj'  gets  white; 
it  is  then  very  near  boiling.  Put  it  on  the  corner  of  the  stove,  with  a  cover  over 
it,  and  a  little  fire  on  the  top  of  it.  When  quite  clear  and  bright,  strain  it  through 
a  bag,  or  sieve,  or  naplvin,  to  be  used  when  wanted.  Or  if  this  is  wanted  for  a 
mayonnaise,  or  as  a  jelly  in  molds,  make  sure  of  its  being  stiff  enough.  Then  put 
a  knuckle  of  veal  in  a  small  stock-pot,  a  small  part  of  a  knuckle  of  ham  and  two 
calf  feet,  some  trimming  of  fowl  or  game.  Season  this  with  onions,  carrots  and 
a  bunch  of  herbs  Avell  seasoned,  and  moisten  with  good  broth;  let  it  boil  gently 
for  four  hours,  then  skim  away  all  the  fat,  and  drain  it  through  a  silken  sieve; 
put  that  into  a  stew-pan.  with  two  s])oonfuls  of  tarragon  vinegar  and  four  whites 
of  eggs,  salt  and  pepper,  to  clarify;  keep  stirring  it  over  the  fire  until  the  whole 
becomes  very  white,  then  put  this  on  the  side,  Avith  a  little  fire  over  the  cover; 
Avhen  you  find  it  clear,  drain  it  in  a  cloth  or  jelly-bag.  and  use  it  for  aspic;  if  not, 
do  not  put  in  any  vinegar;  jelly  for  pie  or  galantine  does  not  require  acid. 

BAIN-MARIE   SAUCE   OR   STEW   PAN. 

Tlie  bain-marie  is  a  shalloAV  A'essel,  generally  made  of  copper,  which  is  used 
for  keeping  sauces,  stews,  etc.,  hot  when  they  are  already  sufficiently  cooked, 
and  Avhen  it  is  not  convenient  tliat  they  should  be  immediately  served.  It  will 
be  found  most  A^aluable  in  those  families  where  regularity  and  punctuality  in 
meals  cannot  be  depended  upon,  as  it  affords  the  best  means  of  keeping  dishes 
hot  Avithout  destroying  their  flaA'or  or  burning  them.    When  it  is  to  be  used,  the 


SAUCES.  13 

bain-marie  should  be  filled  with  boiling  -water,  and  the  pans  containing  the 
sauces  or  entrees  should  be  put  inio  it  elosely  covered.  It  should  then  be  put 
.upon  a  hot  plate,  or  by  tJie  side  of  the  fire,  to  keep  up  tlie  heat  of  the  water 
without  allowing  it  to  boll,  and  should  there  remain  until  the  dishes  are  wanted. 
Tiio  principle  of  the  bain-marie  may  be  adapted  for  Ivceping  sauces  and  gravies 
warm  wlien  a  proper  pan  is  not  at  hand.  Instead  of  retaining  the  compound 
slowly  simmering  by  the  side  of  the  fire  in  the  pan  in  which  it  was  made,  by 
which  means  it  would,  in  all  probability,  be  either  smoked,  burned  or  rendered 
flavorless,  put  it  into  a  basin  or  jar,  cover  it  closely,  aud  place  it  in  a  pan  of 
boiling  water.  If  the  Avater  is  allowed  to  boil,  the  sauce  or  gravy  will  become 
too  thick. 

BECHAMEL  SAUCE  (CREAMY). 

Put  one  and  a  half  ounces  of  fine  fiour  aud  the  same  of  butter  to  fry  together 
without  discoloring,  then  mix  with  it  a  half  pint  of  milk  flavored  as  in  recipe 
for  thick  bechamel,  stir  together  till  it  boils,  then  add  a  gill  of  single  cream  and 
a  little  seasoning,  tammy,  aud  use.  Tliis  sauce  is  excellent  for  serving  with 
boiled  chicken,  etc. 

BECHAMEL  SAUCE  (THICK). 

Half  a  pint  of  milk  boiled  with  a  little  mace  and  half  a  shallot;  mix  onto 
two  ounces  of  flour  which  have  been  lightly  fried  with  two  ounces  of  butter, 
stir  until  it  boils,  add  a  little  red  pepper  aud  salt,  tammy,  and  use. 

BEARNAISE 'SAUCE. 

Three  tablespoonfuls  of  tarragon  vinegar,  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  and  one  halt 
pound  of  butter;  put  the  vinegar  into  a  small  saucepan  over  a  modcn-ate  fire,  let 
it  boil  until  reduced  to  one  spoonful,  then  put  in  the  yolks  aud  a  small  piece  of 
butter,  stir  continually  Avith  a  wooden  spoon  or  small  egg-whip.  As  soon  as  tlie 
first  piece  of  l)utter  is  melted,  take  from  the  fire;  put  in  a  second  piece,  and  stir 
until  melted;  continue  this  until  the  whole  amount  of  butter  is  melted;  put  over 
the  fire  again  for  one  minute,  add  a  teaspoonful  of  fresh  tarragon,  chopped  fine. 
You  must  be  careful  in  doing  this  sauce,  for  it  will  brealc  very  easily;  in  case 
of  breaking,  add  a  little  cold  water,  drop  by  drop,  until  the  sauce  comes  right 
again.  Care  must  be  taken  not  to  cook  the  yolk,  as  it  will  cause  the  sauce  to 
break.    This  sauce  may  be  served  with  steak. 

A.  J.  Pillauet,  Chef  West  Hotel,  Minneapolis,  Minnesota. 

BORDEAUX  SAUCE. 

2  gallons  of  cabbage,  cut  fine,  1  ounce  of  ground  ginger, 

1  gallon  of  green  tomatoes,  sliced,      1  ounce  of  ground  black  pepper, 
1  dozen  sliced  onions,  i^  pound  of  white  mustard-seed, 

1  oiuice  of  turmeric-powder,  1%  pounds  of  Avhite  sugar, 

1  ounce  of  celery-seed,  1  gill  of  salt, 

1  ounce  of  whole  allspice,  1  gallon  of  vinegar, 

1  ounce  of  cloves. 

Mix  all,  and  boil  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes. 
Laura  M.  Logan,  Shirland,  Pennsylvania. 


14 


SAtrCES. 


BREAD  S'AUCE. 
Oue  cupful  of  stale  bread -crumbs,  one  oniou,  two  ounces  of  butter,  pepper, 
salt  and  mace.    Cut  the  onions  very  fine  and  boil  in  sweet  milk,  then  strain  on 
the  bread,  and  let  stand  half  an  hour;  put  into  a  saucepan,  with  onion,  pepper, 
salt  and  butter;  boil.    Serve  with  goose,  ducli  or  any  Ivind  of  game. 

BROWN  CHESTNUT  SAUCE. 

This  is  made  in  the  same  way  as  white  chestnut  sauce,  excepting  brown 
gravy  is  used  instead  of  milk;  this  is  usually  served  with  roasted  fowl,  and 
seasoned  rather  more  highly  than  the  white  sauce. 

BROWN  ONION  SAUCE. 

Fry  the  onions  in  butter  and  a  dash  of  sugar  to  a  nice  brown;  thicken  a  little 
with  "brown  roux"  or  flour,  and  add  enough  strong  beef  gravy  to  make  a  thick 
sauce.  Season  with  cayenne  or  black  pepper,  and  rub  through  a  sieve.  Very 
nice  with  roasted  goose  or  pork. 


iii;;E2iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiM 

Rubbing  Sauces  through  the  Tammy. 

BROWN  SAUCE. 

Fry  four  ounces  of  flour,  four  ounces  of  butter  and  four  ounces  of  tomatoes 
till  a  good  brown  color;  then  add  two  quarts  of  good-flavored  stock  made  from 
<?ooked  meat-bones,  stir  till  it  boils,  and  let  it  boil  till  reduced  one  fourth,  keeping 
it  well  skimmed;  then,  when  quite  free  from  fat,  tammy.  This  sauce  may  always 
he  kept  ready  for  use  by  being  boiled  up  once  or  twice  a  week. 

BROWN  SAUCE. 

Melt  and  stir  one  ounce  of  butter  over  the  fire  until  brown,  thicken  with  a 
tablespoonful  of  flour  and  mix  smooth,  thin  with  half  a  pint  of  boiling  stock; 
add  one  finely  chopped  onion,  a  small  carrot,  a  sprig  each  of  parsley,  thyme  and 
sweet  marjoram,  a  blade  of  mace,  a  little  black  pepper  and  salt.  Simmer  for 
ten  minutes,  then  strain,  and  stir  in  a  tablespoonful  of  Worcestershire  sauce,  a 
tablespoonful  each  of  tomato,  mushroom  and  walnut  catchup,  with  the  juice  of 
one  lemon,  stir  until  thoroughly  mixed.  Serve  with  beefstealv,  mutton  chops 
and  warmed-over  meats. 


SAUCES.  15 

CAPER  SAUCE  (BROWN). 
Take  some  thick  brown  sauce,  adding  the  vinegar  the  capers  are  pickled  in; 
season  it  highly  with  cayenne  and  salt.     Put  capers  to  the  sauce  just  before 
serving;  and  they  must  be  used  liberally.     Nasturtium  buds  or  seeds  are  some- 
times used  as  a  substitute. 

CAPER  SAUCE  (WHITE). 

Put  whole  capers  into  melted  butter,  adding  a  little  of  the  vinegar  they  are 
pickled  in,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  suflicient  cream  to  make  it  white.  This  is  used 
principally  for  boiled  mutton. 

CELERY  SAUCE. 

Chop  the  celery  fine,  and  boil  it  until  tender;  use  only  a  little  water;  season 
with  one  half  cupful  of  cream,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  and  salt  and  pepper 
to  suit  the  taste. 

Mrs.  Louisa  Ash,  Mt.  Vernon,  Olilo. 

CIIAI'ONAY  SAUCE. 
Put  two  peeled  shallots  into  a  stew-pan,  with  a  sliced  tomato,  a  buncli  of 
herbs,  one  mushroom  chopped  fine,  a  little  piece  of  bacon-bone,  half  a  pound 
of  bones  from  any  birds,  one  tablespoonful  of  clarified  butter  or  salad-oil,  pinch 
of  mignonette  pepper,  and  fry  all  together  for  about  fifteen  minutes.  Then  add 
one  ounce  of  glaze  and  three  quarters  of  a  pint  of  good  brown  sauce;  boil  all 
together  for  about  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  and  keep  skimmed  while  boiling; 
tammy,  and  mix  in  twelve  shredded  turned  olives,  a  few  drops  of  carmine  and 
a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  champagne  just  before  serving.  This  is  an  excellent  sauce 
for  serving  with  larks,  quails,  etc. 

CIIAUDFROID  (BROWN). 
Three  quarters  of  a  pint  of  aspic,  quarter    of  a  pint  of  tomato  sauce,  a  few 
drops  of  carmine,  half  a  wine-glassful  of  sherry,  half  an  ounce  of  glaze  and  a 
dust  of  red  pepper;  reduce  one  quarter,  keep  skimmed  wliile  boiling,  then  tammy, 
and  use  when  somewhat  cool. 

CHAUDFROID  (W^HITE). 
Put  together  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  veloute  sauce,  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  thick 
cream,  half  a  pint  of  aspic  jelly,  and  boil  till  reduced  one  quarter,  keeping  it 
well  skinmied;  tammy,  and  use  when  cooling. 

CHILLI  SAUCE. 
18  ripe  tomatoes,  cut  fine,  1  cupful  of  sugar, 

1  green  pepper,  cut  fine,  1  tablespoonful  of  salt, 

1  onion,  cut  fine,  2  cupfuls  of  best  vinegar, 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  all  kinds  of  spices,  pulverized. 

Boil,  and  bottle  for  use. 

Cousin  Lizzie,  Girardtown,  West  Virginia. 

CLARET  SAUCE. 
Boil  one  cupful  of  sugar  and  one  fourth  cupful  of  water  until  it  thickens 
slightly;  cool  a  little,  and  add  three  tablespoonfuls  of  claret. 

Mrs.  Altliea  Somes,  Teacher  of  Coolsery,  Manual  Training  School,  Boston,  Mass. 


16  SAUCES. 

CLARIFIED  BUTTER. 
For  serviug-  with  boiled  fish,  globe  artichokes,  asparagus,  etc.  Put  half  a 
poimd  of  good  butter  into  a  stew-pau  and  stand  on  the  side  of  the  stove;  let  it 
boil  very  gently,  keep  it  continually  skimmed  Avhile  boiliug.  but  do  not  allow  it 
to  discolor;  then,  when  it  presents  the  appearance  of  clear  salad-oil,  carefully 
pour  it  off  from  the  sediment  at  the  bottom  of  the  pan,  and  serve  in  a  sauce-boat. 
This  is  also  very  good  for  frying  cutlets,  etc.,  in.  It  will  require  about  half  au 
hour  to  clarify,  and  the  above  quantity  is  sufficient  for  six  to  eight  persons. 

CRANBERRY  SAUCE. 

Wash  a  quart  of  cranberries,  put  into  a  preserve-kettle,  with  water  to  cover, 

and  stew  until  the  berries  break;  then  strain  through  a  colander,  return  to  the 

kettle,  add  one  and  one  half  pounds  of  sugar,  and  stir  until  it  boils;  turn  out  to 

cool. 

CREAM  SAUCE. 

Put  two  tablespoonfuls  of  hot  water  and  a  teacupful  of  sweet  cream  into  a 
saucepan,  stir  in  one  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  a  little  chopped  parsley;  set 
the  saucepan  into  a  kettle  of  boiling  Avater,  add  a  little  strained  soup  stock,  let 
boil,  take  from  the  fire,  and  add  a  tablespoonful  of  butter.     Then  pour  around 

the  hot  fish. 

CREAM  SAUCE. 

In  New  York,  where  salmon  is  dressed  to  perfection,  cream  sauce  is  a  fre- 
quent accompaniment.  The  cream  is  made  very  hot,  but  not  brought  quite  to 
a  boil,  seasoned  to  taste,  sometimes  with  shrimp  or  anchovy  essence,  some- 
times with  chopped  parsley.  If  for  baked  salmon,  the  liquor  from  the  can  is 
strained  and  stirred  into  it;  it  requires  no  thickening.  It  will  be  found  an 
admirable  sauce  for  fish  of  almost  any  kind;  capers  chopped  and  added  will  be 
excellent  with  codfish— a  thoroughly  French  combination. 

CURRANT  SAUCE. 
5  pounds  of  currants,  1  tablespoonful  of  cloves, 

3  pounds  of  sugar,  1  tablespoonful  of  allspice, 

1  pint  of  vinegar,  1  tablespoonful  of  pepper, 

1  tablespoonful  of  cinnamon,  1  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Boil  one  half  hour,  and  bottle.    If  preferred,  omit  the  vinegar. 
Mrs.  H.  H.  Himian,  Battle  Creek,  Michigan. 

DEVIL  SAUCE. 

Four  tablespoonfuls  of  cold  gravy;  that  from  a  joint,  or.  if  not  to  be  had,  use 
brown  stock. 

1  teaspoonful  of  loaf-sugar,  V^  of  a  lemon,  the  juice  of, 

14  teaspoonful  of  mustard.  1  ounce  of  fresh  butter. 

1  dessert-spoonful  of  good  mush-         Salt  and  pepper  to  suit  the  palate, 
room  catchup. 

The  pepper  should  be  added  cautiously  at  first;  it  varies  so  much  in  strength, 
it  is  almost  impossible  to  state  the  exact  quantity.  This  may  be  varied  consid- 
erably; Worcestershire  or  any  other  good  sauce  can  take  the  place  of  the 
catchup,  and  vinegar,  plain  or  flavored  with  herbs,  may  be  used  instead  of  the 
lemon-juice. 


SAUCES. 


17 


DKAWN-BUTTER  SAUCE. 

One  quai'ter  of  a  pouud  of  butter,  with  tAvo  teaspoonfuls  of  flour  well  mixed 
witli  it,  j)Ut  into  a  saucepan,  witli  one  half  a  pint  of  water  or  stoelv,  cover  it, 
and  set  the  saucepan  into  a  larger  one  fiUed  with  boiling  water;  shake  it  con- 
stantly until  thoroughly  melted;  take  it  off  as  soon  as  it  comes  to  a  boil. 
Season  with  salt  and  pepper. 

DUTCH  SAUCE. 

This  sauce  is  in  high  repute  in  France  and  America;  it  is  served  with 
various  kinds  of  tish  and  vegetables,  especially  artichokes.  It  sounds  extrav- 
agant, but  no  one  needs  much  of  it,  and  it  is  very  delicious.  To  make  it,  put  tlie 
yolks  of  only  two  eggs  into  a  jar  or  jug,  and  two  ounces  of  fresh  butter,  with  a 
small  glassful  of  water  and  a  little  salt  and  grated  nutmeg;  set  this  in  a  sauce- 
pan of  boiling  water  over  tlie  fire,  and  stir  until  it  is  thick,  but  do  not  let  it  boil. 
Add,  off  the  fire,  a  dessert-spoonful  of  lemon-juice.  When  for  serving  with 
calf's  head,  with  which  it  is  very  nice,  substitute  veal  gravy  for  the  water.  A 
few  drops  of  strong  white  vinegar  may  be  used  instead  of  lemon-juice. 


EGG  SAUCE. 

We  tasted  recently  a  delicious  egg  sauce,  in  which  the  yolks  were  pounded, 
and  the  whites  chopped  as  usual.  A  little  parsley,  chopped  tine,  had  been  added, 
and  it  looked,  as  well  as  tasted,  very  good.  The  lady  who  made  it  sometimes 
uses  fennel  instead  of  parsley. 

ESPAGNOL  SAUCE. 

Mix  three  quarters  of  a  pint  of  brown  sauce  with  one  ounce  of  glaze  or  a 
teaspoonful  of  extract  of  meat,  one  or  two  fresh  muslirooms,  one  Avine-glassful 
of  slierry,  a  few  drops  of  carmine  and  a  pinch  of  castor-sugar;  reduce  one 
fourth,  keep  it  skmuned  while  boiling,  then  tammy,  and  use. 

EXCELLENT  FISH  SAUCE. 

Put  one  tablespoonful  of  chopped  parsley  into  a  bowl  and  pound  it  until 
reduced  to  a  pulp,  then  add  to  it  the  yolks  of  three  eggs;  mix  thoroughly,  season 
with  a  dash  of  cayenne  pepper,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  thin  with  one  table- 
spoonful  of  vinegar,  mix  in  gradually  half  a  pint  of  olive-oil  and  a  tablespoon- 
ful of  finely  chopped  gherkins.     Serve  with  boiled  or  broiled  fish. 


18 


SAUCES. 


FISH  SAUCE. 


14  pint  of  walnut  pickle,  1  dozen  shallots, 

14  pint  of  mushroom  catchup,         i/4  pint  of  soy, 
1  dozen  anchovies,  1/4  teaspoonful  of  cayenne  pepper. 

Put  all  the  ingredients  into  a  saucepan,  having  previously  chopped  the  shallots 
and  anchovies  very  fine;  let  simmer  fifteen  minutes,  strain,  and  when  cold,  bottle 
for  use,  and  seal. 

FOWL  SAUCE. 

Take  scraps  of  veal,  the  neclvs  and  feet  of  fowls,  put  into  a  saucepan,  with  a 
blade  of  mace,  a  few  peppercorns,  one  head  of  celery,  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs, 
the  juice  of  one  lemon;  put  all  into  a  quart  of  Avater  and  boil  one  hour;  strain, 
and  thicken  with  half  a  pound  of  butter  rolled  in  flour.  Mix  in  a  teacupful  of 
fresh  or  canned  mushrooms,  the  beaten  yolks  of  two  eggs,  with  a  teacupful  of 
cream  and  half  a  nutmeg,  grated.    Shake  over  the  fire  until  ready  to  serve. 

FRENCH   BECHAMEL   SAUCE. 

That  popular  French  white  sauce  is  very  easy  to  make  in  even  ordinary 
households  where  economy  is  pi'actised.  For  instance,  in  making  this  on  a 
large  scale,  a  whole  fowl  would  probably  be  boiled  down  for  it,  together  with  a 
knuckle  of  veal  and  a  piece  of  lean  ham.  Proceed,  however,  as  follows:  Put 
into  a  saucepan  the  bones  of  a  boiled  or  a  roasted  fowl,  broken  small,  with  any 
scraps  of  fresh  veal  and  a  bit  of  raw  lean  ham,  or  the  bones  from  a  piece  of 
boiled  bacon;  add 

A  bit  of  carrot,  A  few  button  mushrooms, 

A  slice  of  onion,  1  pint  of  cold  water, 

A  tiny  bit  of  mace,  A  sprig  of  thyme  and  parsley, 

A  few  white  peppercorns. 
Simmer  until  there  is  onlj'  half  a  pint  of  liquid,  or  even  less,  and  if  it  does 
not  taste  rich,  put  in  a  teaspoonful  of  gelatin.  Stir  until  that  is  dissolved,  then 
strain  the  sauce.  In  a  separate  saucepan  bring  to  a  boil  half  the  measure  of 
cream  mixed  with  a  small  teaspoonful  of  arrow-root;  mix  the  white  stock 
gradually  with  this,  let  the  whole  boil  for  a  few  minutes,  then  serve,  adding, 
off  the  fire,  a  few  drops  of  lemon-juice  or  white  vinegar,  and  a  little  salt.  If 
the  stock  can  be  allowed  to  cool  before  mixing  with  the  cream,  the  fat  will  be 
more  effectually  removed.  We  have  dwelt  at  some  length  on  this  recipe,  by 
way  of  illustrating  the  fact  that  people  often  deprive  themselves  of  nice  dishes 
simply  because  the  quantities  given  in  recipes  are  too  great  for  their  needs,  and 
they  are  not  sufficiently  practical  to  reduce  or  alter  them  to  meet  their  modest 
requirements.  We  may  mention  that  if  the  meat  and  vegetables  are  allowed  to 
stew  first  in  a  little  butter,  Jhe  sauce  will  taste  much  better. 

FRENCH  SAI/AD  SAUCE. 

Put  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  pepper  each  into  a  bowl,  add  gradually 
three  tablespooufuls  of  olive-oil.  rub  aud  mix  thoroughly,  then  stir  in  the 
vinegar  by  degrees,  and  it  is  ready  for  use. 


SAUCES.  19 

GREEN-rEA  SAUCE  (FOR  FISH). 

Cook  ill  il  double  boiler  for  ten  miuiites,  oue  cupful  of  millt,  one  half  tea- 
spoonful  of  onion  and  one  little  piece  of  celery;  melt  one  half  teaspoonful  of 
butter,  add  one  tablespoonful  of  flour,  and  hot  milk  a  little  at  a  time.  Strain 
back  into  the  double  boiler,  add  one  fourth  of  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  little 
pepper  and  one  half  cupful  of  cold  cooked  peas.  Just  before  serving,  add  to  it 
one  beaten  yolk. 

Miss  Marion  L.  Campbell,  Friendly  Inn  Cooking  School,  Clevelaind,  Ohio. 

HALIBUT  SAUCE. 

Take  a  quart  of  soup  stock,  thicken  very  little,  add  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  one 
tablespoonful  of  tomato  catchup  and  Worcestershire  sauce,  pepper  and  salt. 
Send  to  the  table  in  a  gravy-boat,  to  be  served  with  boiled  halibut. 

HOME-MADE  WORCESTERSHIRE  SAUCE. 
Add  to  one  quart  of  vinegar 

3  mashed  anchovies,  2  heads  of  garlic,  chopped, 

3  teaspoonfuls  of  allspice,  2  blades  of  mace, 

y<2,  ounce  of  cayenne  pepper,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  ground  cloves, 

%  teaspoonful  each  of  cinnamon  and  ginger. 
Let  stand  twenty-four  hours.    Strain;  add  the  juice  of  one  lemon.    Cork,  and 
set  aside  for  ten  days;  pour  into  a  crock,  skim,  bottle  and  seal. 

HORSE-RADISH  SAUCE. 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  grated  horse-radish,  1  egg,  the  yollc  of, 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  cider  vinegar,  1  tablespoonful  of  butter, 

1  cupful  of  cream.  Salt  to  taste. 

Cover  the  horse-radish  with  water,  let  boil  half  an  hour;  drain  off  the  water, 
add  the  vinegar,  butter,  one  half  teaspoonful  of  sugar  and  the  salt,  mix  them; 
beat  the  egg  and  cream,  and  add  just  before  sending  to  the  table.  Serve  with 
oysters  or  cold  fish. 

ICED  CHAMPAGNE  SAUCE. 

Grated  rind  and  juice  of  one  orange,  %  of  a  cupful  of  water, 

1%  cupfuls  of  granulated  sugar,  1  pint  of  champagne. 

Put  the  sugar  and  water  over  the  fire  and  boil  for  five  minutes;  pour  half  on 
the  orange  rind  and  juice,  return  the  remainder  to  the  fire  for  three  minutes, 
then  pour  it  over  the  whites  of  two  eggs  whipped  to  a  stiff  froth  with  two  table- 
spoonfuls of  poAvdered  sugar,  beat  well  while  mixing,  and  strain  into  it  the 
orange-syrup  mixture.  When  cold,  add  the  champagne,  and  freeze  to  the  con- 
sistency of  sorbet. 

Miss  Cornelia  Campbell  Bedford,  Superintendent  New  York  Cooking  School,  New  York. 

IRLANDAISE  SAUCE  (HOT). 

Put  a  pint  of  good  brown  sauce  into  a  stew-pan,  with  a  wine-glassful  of  port 
wine,  one  good  tablespoonful  of  red-currant  jelly,  the  juice  of  one  lemon,  one 
bay-leaf,  six  crushed  peppercorns,  a  dust  of  red  pepper,  a  small  sprig  of  thyme, 


20  SAUCES. 

one  sliced  tomato,  a  few  drops  of  carmine  and  half  a  shallot,  chopped  fine;  boil 
gently  for  about  ten  minutes,  keeping  it  skimmed;  pass  it  through  the  tammy- 
cloth,  make  hot  in  the  bain-marie,  and  serve  hot. 

LEMON  SAUCE. 

Cut  three  slices  of  lemon  into  very  small  dice,  and  put  them  into  drawn 
butter.    Let  it  come  just  to  a  boiling-point,  and  pour  over  boiled  fowls. 

LOBSTER  SAUCE. 

Boil  a  little  mace,  cloves  and  cayenne  pepper  in  a  pint  of  water,  strain,  and 
melt  half  a  pound  of  butter  into  it;  cut  the  lobster  in  small  pieces,  and  stew 
until  very  tender;  squeeze  in  the  juice  of  one  lemon. 

MAITRE  D'HOTE  SAUCE. 

Add  to  one  cupful  of  freshly  made  drawn  butter  the  juice  of  one  lemon,  a 
tablespoonful  of  chopped  parsley,  half  of  a  small  onion,  minced,  and  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  powdered  thyme,  cayenne  pepper  and  salt;  set  on  the  stove,  and  beat 
while  simmering.    Serve  with  fish. 

MAYONNAISE  ASPIC. 

Take  half  a  pint  of  aspic  jelly  that  is  not  quite  set,  and  mix  it  into  three  large 
tablespoonfuls  of  thick  mayonnaise  sauce,  stirring  well  together  till  it  begins  to 
thicken,  then  use.  To  make  this  softer  and  better  blended,  it  is  advisable  to  pass 
it  through  the  tammy-cloth  before  using. 

MAYONNAISE  SAUCE. 

For  half  a  pint  of  mayonnaise  sauce,  put  one  raw  yolk  of  egg  into  a  basin,  a 
salt-spoonful  of  English  and  same  of  French  mustard,  a  pinch  of  salt  and  white 
pepper  and  a  tiny  dust  of  red  pepper.  Mix  with  salad-oil.  with  a  wooden  spoon, 
just  dropping  in  the  oil  carefully,  drop  by  drop;  when  this  is  as  thick  as  butter, 
add  a  teaspoonful  of  tarragon  vinegar,  four  or  five  drops  of  chilli  vinegar  and 
eight  drops  of  lemon-juice.    The  sauce  should  be  kept  quite  stiff. 

MELTED-BUTTER  SAUCE. 

First,  the  one  sauce  which  we  are  supposed  to  make,  and  that  not  well! 
How  often  is  it  to  be  met  with  on  the  one  hand  like  bill-stickers'  paste,  on  the 
other,  a  slop  which  swims  the  plate  and  looks  like  thin  gruel!  And  as  this  is 
the  foimdation  of  so  many  sauces,  sweet  and  savory,  it  is  certainly  worth  while 
to  Ivuow  the  correct  way  to  make  it.  We  are  nothing  if  not  practical,  so  it  will 
not  serve  our  purpose  to  enlighten  our  readers  as  to  the  method  adopted  when 
the  richest  melted  butter  is  required;  we  may  say  that  it  is  almost  all  butter, 
and  those  who  can  afford  it  will  no  doubt  have  cooks  competent  to  produce  it. 
Unquestionably,  the  surest  way  to  avoid  lumps  is  to  first  melt  the  butter  in  a 
small  stew-pan,  then  add  the  flour  very  gradually,  next  the  water  or  milk, 
also,  little  by  little,  stirring  unceasingly  until  it  boils,  and  for  one  minute  after- 
ward, when  it  is  ready  to  serve.  As  to  quantities,  the  happy  medium  is  hit, 
and  a  nice,  smooth  sauce  the  result,  by  using  an  ounce  of  butter  and  half  an 
ounce  of  flour  to  each  half  pint  of  water  or  milk.    When  tlie  latter  is  used,  add 


SAUCES.  21 

the  salt  last;  it  is  apt  to  curdle  iicav  milk  if  put  in  with  it.  When  a  richer  sauce 
is  desired,  allow  an  extra  ounce  of  butter,  and  reduce  the  water  a  little.  INIany 
of  the  best  cooks  apitrove  of  the  addition  of  a  slice  of  butter  stirred  in  after  the 
sauce  is  taken  from  the  fire;  a  spoonful  of  cream  is  another  improvement. 
This,  as  most  of  our  readers  are  presumably  aware,  forms  the  basis  of  an 
almost  endless  variety  of  sauces,  such  as  parsley,  egg,  onion,  and  fish  sauces 
innumerable.  In  some  cases  it  is  an  improvement  to  use  veal  stock  or  gravy 
instead  of  water,  and  fish  sauce— when  the  fish  is  filleted— should  receive  all 
the  goodness  and  flavor  of  the  bones,  which  need  slow  stewing  in  the  water 
used  for  making  tlie  sauce.  We  want  chiefly  to  impress  the  correct  proportions 
of  flour,  butter  and  liquid  upon  our  readers'  minds;  thej'  can  then  alter,  or 
deviate  from,  any  recipes  they  may  meet  with. 


Wringing;  Sauces  thkough  the  Tammy. 


MUSHROOM  SAUCE. 


Prepare  the  mushrooms  by  cutting  off  the  stalks,  and  throAV  them  into  boil- 
ing water.  Season  very  sparingly  Avith  salt,  pepper  and  butter.  Boil  until 
tender,  and  thicken  the  gravy  with  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  and  a  piece  of 
butter  the  size  of  a  butter-beau,  and  pour  it  over  the  meat.  Some  use  a  little 
lejnou-juice  to  add  to  the  flavor. 

MUSTARD  SAUCE. 

2  eggs,  the  yollc  of,  1  teacupful  of  vinegar. 

1  small  glassful  of  jelly,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  mustard, 

1  tablespoonful  of  butter,        1  small  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Cook  until  thick.    When  cold  it  is  ready  for  use. 
M.  L.  Hann,  Wellington,  Kansas. 

OYSTER  SAUCE. 

What  a  popidar  dainty  is  a  tureen  of  oyster  sauce,  and  how  often  is  it  spoiled 
by  the  common  practice  of  letting  the  oysters  boil  in  it!  The  proper  way  is  to 
strain  the  liquor,  and  boil  that  with  the  flour  and  butter,  adding  a  dash  of  cay- 
enne, lemon-juice,  nutmeg  and  anchovy  essence,  and  the  oysters  the  last  thing, 
long  enough  for  them  to  become  hot  through,  removing  the  sauce  from  tlie  fire 
so  that  it  shall  not  boil  after  they  are  put  in.  Follow  this  plan  either  for  canned 
or  fresh  oysters;  when  the  last-named  are  used,  the  beards  should  be  stewed  in 


2^  SAUCES. 

the  oyster  liquor  until  their  flavor  is  fully  extracted.  Many  cooks  recommend 
mace  for  almost  all  white  sauces,  but  one  fears  to  mention  it,  for  it  is  a  spice 
that  is  so  overpowering  in  flavor  that  a  trifle  too  much  renders  anything  uneat- 
able. In  the  hands  of  a  skilled  cook  it  is  certainly  valuable,  though  nutmeg  can, 
in  almost  evei-y  case,  be  used  as  a  substitute. 

PAESLEY  SAUCE. 

Wash  a  bunch  of  parsley  in  cold  water,  then  boil  In  salt-water  ten  minutes, 
add  a  tablespoonful  of  flour,  same  of  butter;  let  boil,  and  serve. 

PEPPER  SAUCE. 

Three  dozen  peppers,  two  heads  of  cabbage,  one  root  of  horse-radish,  with 
mustard-seed,  cloves  and  sugar.    Boil  in  two  quarts  of  vinegar.    Strain. 

ROMAN  SAUCE. 

Put  one  teacupful  of  water  and  one  of  milk  over  the  fire  to  scald,  stir  in  a 
tablespoonful  of  flour  and  three  well-beaten  eggs;  season  with  pepper  and  salt, 
two  ounces  of  butter  and  a  tablespoonful  of  vinegar.  Boil  four  eggs,  slice,  and 
lay  in  the  dish.    Serve  with  boiled  tongue,  venison  or  large  game. 

SALMIS  SAUCE. 

One  and  a  half  ounces  of  good  butter  put  into  a  pan,  with  an  onion  that  is  cut 
up  in  dice  shapes,  a  slice  or  two  of  tomato,  one  or  two  fresh  mushrooms,  a  little 
thyme,  parsley,  pinch  of  mignonette  pepper,  and  the  bones  of  any  birds  chopped 
up;  fry  all  together  for  about  fifteen  minutes  with  the  cover  on  the  pan,  then  add 
about  an  ounce  of  flour,  a  wine-glassful  of  port  wine  or  sherry,  an  ounce  of  glace 
or  a  teaspoonful  of  extract  of  meat,  a  pint  of  broAvn  sauce,  a  dust  of  red  pepper 
and  a  few  drops  of  carmine;  boil  all  together  for  about  fifteen  minutes,  keep 
skimmed,  remove  the  bones,  then  tammy,  and  use.  The  bones  can  be  afterward 
put  in  the  stock-pot. 

SALSIFY  SAUCE. 

Scrape  and  wash  two  roots  of  salsify,  rub  them  with  lemon,  and  throw  them 
into  cold  water  till  wanted;  boil  the  roots  till  perfectly  tender  in  lightly  salted 
water;  drain  them,  cut  them  into  small  pieces,  stir  them  into  half  a  pint  of 
melted  butter,  simmer  a  few  minutes,  and  serve.    Time,  one  hour  and  a  quarter. 

SAUCE. 

One  cupful  of  butter  well  creamed  with  tAVO  cupfuls  of  sugar,  beat  in  the 
yolks  of  two  eggs  and  one  half  cupful  of  water,  let  come  to  a  boil;  remove,  and 
flavor  with  wine  and  nutmeg,  or  anything  preferred. 

Mrs.  A.  E.  Kirtland,  author  of  "Mrs.  Kirtland's  Cook  Book,"  Montgomery,  Alabama. 

SAUCE. 

Beat  to  a  cream  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and  ten  tablespoonfuls  of  con- 
fectioners' sugar,  then  beat  in  gradually  one  half  cupful  of  cream.  Flavor  with 
vanilla. 

Mrs.  Althea  Somes,  Teacher  of  Cookery,  Manual  Training  School,  Boston,  Mass. 


SAUCES.  23 

SHAD-ROE   SAUCE. 

Wasli  two  sliad  roes,  put  into  a  saucepan,  add  one  tablospoouful  of  salt,  cover 
with  boiluiu  a, aler,  lot  simmer  for  twenty  minutes;  talve  up,  slvin,  and  mash 
l!i;e;  make  rich  drawn  buiter,  add  the  roe,  stir,  let  boil.  Serve  with  boiled  or 
baked  snail. 

SNOWFLAKE  SAUCE. 

One  cupful  of  white  coffee-sugar,  creamed  with  one  lieapiug  tablespoonful  of 
butter;  thicken  one  cupful  of  boiliuj;-  milk  with  one  tal)lespoonful  of  corn-starcli 
wet  with  a  little  cold  milk,  cook  tive  minutes,  stirring  constantly;  when  cold, 
add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  marascliino,  the  creamed  butter  and  sugar,  then  cut 
and  fold  in  the  white  of  one  egg  beaten  very  stiffly. 

Miss  Emily  E.  Squire,  author  of  "  Woronoco  Women's  Wisdom,"  Westfleld,  Mass. 

SUPREME  SAUCE. 

Two  ounces  of  butter  and  two  ounces  of  flour  lightly  fried,  then  mixed  with 
three  quarters  of  a  pint  of  veal  or  chicken  stock;  stir  till  it  boils.  Add  a  gill  of 
cream  and  a  few  fresh  Avhite  mushrooms,  their  peels  and  stalks;  cook  on  the 
stove  for  about  ten  minutes,  add  a  pinch  of  salt,  tammy,  and  use. 

tartarp:  sauce. 

The  yolks  of  two  eggs  beaten  in  a  gill  of  salad-oil,  a  tablespoonful  of  good 
vinegar,  a  teaspoonful  of  mustard,  a  tablespoonful  of  glierkins,  with  pepper 
and  salt,  beat  all  together  in  a  bowl.    Serve  Avith  cold  meats. 

TOMATO  BUTTER. 

Put  two  or  three  tomatoes  in  a  stew-pan,  with  two  ounces  of  butter,  quarter 
pint  of  light  gravy,  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon  and  one  eighth  of  an  ounce  of 
arrow-root  that  is  mixed  with  a  tablespoonful  of  cold  gravy,  season  with  a  little 
salt  and  a  pinch  of  red  pepper,  add  a  fcAv  drops  of  carmine,  and  draw  down  on 
the  side  of  the  stove  for  about  fifteen  to  tAventy  minutes,  then  rub  through  the 
tammy,  rcAvarm,  and  use. 

TOMATO  SAUCE. 

Stew  one  dozen  tomatoes  in  a  pint  of  soup  stock,  Avith  one  onion,  a  bunch 
of  parsley,  salt  and  pepper;  boil  soft,  and  ml)  tlirough  a  fine  sieve;  thicken  Avith 
butter  rolled  in  flour.    Serve  Avith  mushrooms,  macaroni,  etc. 

VELOUTE   SAUCE. 

One  and  a  half  ounces  of  fine  flour,  one  and  a  half  ounces  of  butter;  mix  well, 
and  let  it  fry  gently  on  the  side  of  the  stove  till  a  very  pale  color;  then  mix  it 
with  three  quarters  of  a  pint  of  nicely  flavored  stock,  either  veal,  rabbit  or 
chicken.  Stir  till  it  boils;  add  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  cream,  a  pinch  of  salt  and 
three  or  four  drops  of  lemon-juice:  keep  boiling  for  about  five  minutes:  keep 
skimmed,  tammy,  and  use.  'J'he  tliick,  creamy  veloute  may  be  made  by  reducing 
tliis  one  quai'ter. 


24  SWEET    SAUCES,  FOR    PUDDINGS,  ETC. 

VINAIGRETTE  SAUCE. 

Put  three  tablespoonfuls  of  salad-oil  into  a  basin,  with  a  tablespoonful  of  tar- 
ragon vinegar,  a  salt-spoonfiil  of  cliilli  vinegar,  a  teaspoouful  of  fresh  tarragon 
and  chervil,  finels'  chopped,  a  salt-spoonful  of  mignonette  pepper,  a  dust  of  red 
pepper  and  a  good  pinch  of  salt.  Mix  well,  and  serve  in  a  boat.  This  sauce  is 
very  good  served  with  hot  asparagus,  brains,  calf's  head,  etc. 

WHITE  CHESTNUT  SAUCE. 

I'liis  is  an  excellent  accompaninjent  to  boiled  fowl,  and  avouUI  form  a  pleas- 
ant change  from  parslej'  sauce,  usually  served  with  it.  Boil  or  bake  a  scoi-e  of 
chestnuts  until  tender,  then  pound  the  white  part  in  a  mortar  to  a  smootli 
paste,  with  a  couple  of  ounces  of  butter,  a  pinch  of  white  sugar  and  half  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt.  Mix  slowly  witli  it  half  a  pint  of  cream  and  milk  mixed;  stir 
the  liquid  over  the  fire  until  it  boils. 

WHITE  SAUCE. 

Take  one  cupful  of  butter  and  salt,  shake  in  three  tablespoonfuls  of  flour, 
add  one  quart  of  sweet  milk,  stir  until  it  boils.     Serve  with  boiled  meats. 

WORCESTEESHIKE  SAUCE. 

y-2  bushel  of  tomatoes,  i/4  pound  of  allspice, 

1  quart  of  cider  vinegar,  1  pound  of  salt, 

1  pound  of  brown  sugar,  10  lemons, 

1  ounce  of  ground  cloves. 
Cook  all  together  and  strain  tlu-ough  a  sieve.    Add  juice  of  one  lemon.    Cork 
tight  while  hot,  and  seal  up. 

Howard  F.  Carey,  College  Hill,  Ohio. 


SWEET  SAUCES,  FOR   PUDDINGS,  ETC. 

ANGELIC  SAUCE. 

Put  four  peeled  and  sliced  onions  into  a  stew-pan,  with  enough  cold  water  to 
cover  them;  just  bring  them  to  a  boil,  then  strain  them  and  return  to  the  stew- 
pan,  Avith  four  Avashed  and  finely  chopped,  fresh  white  mushrooms  and  a  bunch 
of  herbs;  cove]"  Avith  one  and  a  half  pints  of  chicken  stock,  the  strained  juice  of 
one  lemon  and  a  fourth  of  a  pint  of  mushroom  liquor;  boil  for  one  hour,  mix 
iu  one  and  a  half  ounces  of  fine  flour  that  has  been  fried,  without  discoloring, 
Avith  the  same  quantity  of  butter;  stir  again  until  it  boils,  add  a  quarter  of  a 
pint  of  cream  and  a  pinch  of  salt;  tammy.    Use  Avilh  cutlets,  rabbit,  chicken,  etc. 

APRICOT  OR  JAM  SAUCE. 

Half  a  potful  of  apricot  or  any  other  jam,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  castor-sugar, 
four  tablespoonfuls  of  water;  boil  for  ten  minutes,  then  pass  it  all  through  a 
tammy  or  sieve;  add  a  little  carmine,  a  wine-glassful  of  white  rum  and  a  wine- 
glassful  of  maraschino   or  noyeau  syrup. 


gWEET   SAUCES,  FOR   PUDDINGS,  ETC.  ^5 

CHEESE  CREAM  SAUCE. 

Take  four  ounces  of  good  ChecUlar  or  Gryere  cheese,  cut  up  iuto  very  flue 
slices,  put  it  into  a  stew-pan,  with  one  and  a  half  gills  of  cream,  a  quarter  of 
a  pint  of  bechamel  sauce  and  a  dust  of  pepper;  stir  these  ingredients  over  the 
lire  until  they  melt,  then  use  at  once  for  croutons,  cauliflower,  macaroni,  etc. 

COURTE  SAUCE. 

Put  into  a  stew-pan  the  juice  of  one  lemon  and  one  orange,  four  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  good-flavored  brown  sauce,  half  an  ounce  of  glaze  and  two  finely 
chopped  shallots;  bring  to  a  boil,  skim,  add  a  wine-glassful  of  port  and  claret 
and  a  dust  of  castor-sugar;  serve  very  hot,  with  teal,  widgeon,  pheasant  or  other 
birds,  roast,  grilled  or  braised. 

CUSTARD  SAUCE. 

1  pint  of  milk,  %  cupful  of  sugar, 

4  eggs,  yolks  of.  Set  over  fire  and  stir  until  thick. 

CZARINA  SAUCE. 

Put  a  few  bones  from  larks,  quails  or  other  birds  into  a  stew-pan,  with  half 
a  pint  of  white  wine,  a  wine-glassful  of  sherry  and  two  finely  chopped  shallots: 
boil  together  for  about  fifteen  minutes,  then  pour  off  the  liquor  or  wring  it 
through  the  tammy,  add  it  to  three  fourths  of  a  pint  of  veloute  sauce  and  eight 
to  ten  fresh  button  mushrooms  that  have  been  Avashed  and  finely  chopped;  boil 
all  together  for  fifteen  miuutes,  add  half  a  gill  of  cream  and  one  or  two  chopped 
truffles.  Use  with  entrees,  sweetbreads,  farced  birds,  sucli  as  roast  pheasant, 
chickens,  etc. 

DRAWN-BUTTER  SAUCE. 

1/4  cupful  of  butter,  y^  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  or  the  juice  of  one  lemon, 
1  pint  of  hot  water,  1  tablespoonful  of  flour  or  corn-starch  made  to  a 
V2  cupful  of  sugar,  smooth  paste. 

Turn  into  the  rest  and  let  it  boil  five  minutes;  add  a  little  grated  nutmeg. 
Christie  Irving. 

DUCHESS  SAUCE. 

Boil  tAvo  ounces  of  grated  chocolate  in  one  half  pint  of  milk  five  minutes; 
strain  on  yolks  of  two  eggs  beaten  with  one  half  gill  of  cream  and  one  half 
cupful  of  sugar;  strain,  return  to  fire,  stir  until  thick  as  houey;  remove,  and  add 
one  teaspoonful  of  extract  of  vanilla. 

FINANCIERE  SAUCE. 

Put  into  a  stew-pan  two  wine-glassfuls  of  sherry,  a  dust  of  pepper,  three 
well-washed  fresh  mushrooms  and  the  liquor  from  a  bottle  of  truffles;  reduce 
to  half  the  quantity,  then  add  three  fourths  of  a  pint  of  good  espagnol  sauce; 
boil  xip  all  together,  tammy,  and  use  for  entrees  and  meats,  chickens,  etc.,  as 
a  hot  sauce.  If  this  sauce  is  to  be  used  for  braised  meats,  take  the  liquor  from 
the  braise,  free  it  from  the  fat,  and  add  it  to  the  sauce  with  the  espagnol  sauce. 


26  s'^'EET  SArcES,  FOR  rr-nr>TXGS,  etc. 


c;kiimax  sauck. 

Sot  on  the  firo  in  tin  pnil  placod  in  a  stoAv-pan  half  fnll  of  boiling  watei-.  ono 
cupfnl  of  cToani  niul  (>iu>  (.upiul  of  milk;  whou  it  roaelu'!;!  tho  boiling-point,  add 
sngar  and  the  yoll<s  of  fonr  eggs,  with  a  pineh  of  salt:  whisk  very  qniokly  nntil 
it  has  tht>  appearanee  i>f  thick  (.Teani  very  frothy.  Jnst  before  serving,  add  a 
tablespoouful  ol'  butter,  one  teaspooufnl  each  of  extract  of  nntnieg  and  vanilla. 

HARD  SAICE. 

Beat  one  enpfnl  of  sngar  and  one  half  cnpfnl  of  bntter  to  a  -white  cream:  add 
the  whites  of  two  eggs,  boat  a  few  miuntos  longer:  add  a  teaspoonfnl  of  extract 

oi  nntnit>g.     I'nt  on  ice  until  needed. 

IIAKD  SAUCE  FOK  TUDDINrT. 

Stir  together  one  cnpfnl  of  bntter  and   three  tupftds  of  powdered   sngar. 
"When  light,  boat  in  the  jnice  of  a  lemon,  or  vanilla.     When  cold,  serve. 
II.  B.  A.,  riaintield.  Cou nootiout. 

lIT'KEirr  SAI-CE. 

Put  into  a  stew-pan  tho  chopped  bones  from  any  birds,  such  as  pheasant, 
partridge,  gronso,  a  few  strips  of  celery,  two  sliced  onions,  a  bnuch  of  herbs, 
the  peels  and  stalks  of  a  fo^^■  fresh  ninshrooms,  a  wine-glassful  of  sherry  and 

white  wine,  the  jniee  of  a  lemon,  and  enough  cold  water  to  cover;  bring  to  a 
boil.  skim,  and  simmer  for  half  an  hoiu':  strain,  and  mix  tliree  fourths  of  a 
pint  of  this  gravy  in  two  ottnces  of  bntter  and  an  ounce  and  a  half  of  tine  tiour 
that  has  bi>en  fried  Avithont  discoloring:  stir  together  tmtil  boiling,  then  tannny, 
and  mix  Avith  a  gill  of  Avhipped  cream:  jnst  before  serving,  add  a  teaspoonfnl 
of  chopped  truffle.    Use  Avith  game  entrees. 

IIYi^IENlO  01iKA:\l  SAl'CE. 

■i.j  piitt  of  milk,  1  tablespoouful  of  bnckAvheat  dissoh'od 

^-  pint  of  cream,  iu  a  little  milk. 

1  egg.  yolk  of.  Large  innch  of  salt. 

luring  milk  aitd  cveniu  to  a  boil  iu  thick.  Avell-liucd  sancepan;  add  to  it  bttck- 
Avheat  dissolved  in  milk,  stirring  rapidly  to  prevent  lnmi)ing:  alloAV  it  to  boil  tive 
minutes;  remove  from  the  fire,  beat  in  the  yolk  of  egg  diluted  Avitli  a  tablespoou- 
ful of  milk.  This  is  better  and  far  more  healthful  (especially  for  children)  than 
so  nuK'h  bntter  and  syrup.  Syrup  minus  bntter  is  avoU  enough,  but  tho  use  of 
butter  with  Itot  cakes  cannot  be  recommended. 

l.iniOX  SAT'OE. 

2  eggs,  the  yolks  of,  i._>  etipful  of  butter, 

1  cnpfnl  of  stigar.  1  tablespoouful  oi  corn-starch. 

Beat  the  eggs  and  stigar  until  light;  add  the  grated  rind  and  juice  of  one 
lemon.  Stir  the  Avhole  into  tltree  gills  oi'  boiling  Avater.  and  cook  until  it  thick- 
ens sntliciently  for  the  table. 


SWEET   SAUCES,  FOR    PUDDINGS,  ETC.  27 

LEMON  SAUCE. 

Boll  oiic  cupful  of  sugar  and  one  cupful  of  water  together  fifteen  minutes, 
then  roniove;  when  cooled  a  litUo,  add  one  half  a  teaspoonful  of  extract  of 
lemon  and  one  tablesi)()onful  of  lemon-juice. 

MAGENTA  SAUCE. 

Take  tlie  bones  and  skins  from  any  birds,  cliop  them,  and  put  tliem  into  a 
buttered  saute-])an,  with  two  or  tlu'ee  fresh  mushrooms,  two  sliced  tomatoes,  a 
l)uucli  of  lu'rl)s  (such  as  tliyme,  parsh'y  and  bay-leaf),  a  piece  of  bacon-l)one 
and  a  pincli  of  mijj;nonette  ])eppei';  place  the  cover  on  tlie  i)an,  and  fry  the 
contents  for  about  tifteen  minutes;  then  add  a  wine-glassful  of  sherry,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  any  good  extract  of  meat,  one  pint  of  good  brown  sauce  and  a  few 
drops  of  li(iuid  carmine;  bring  to  a  boil,  reduce  one  fourth,  keep  well  skimmed 
while  boiling,  then  remove  the  bones,  pass  the  sauce  through  a  tamray,  add  a 
little  raw  chopped  parsley  or  truffle,  and  use  with  roast  or  braised  birds,  etc. 

MAI'LE  SYKUr. 

V.  pound  of  maple  sugar,  1  pound  of  cut  sugar, 

3  pints  of  water. 

Break  maple  sugar  small,  place  over  the  fire  Avith  cut  sugar  and  water;  boil 
five  minutes,  skim,  tlien  cool. 

NESLE  SAUCE. 

Take  one  ounce  of  glaze,  half  a  pint  of  brown  sauce,  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
white  Avine  and  the  same  of  sherry,  one  teaspoonful  of  French  mustard,  one 
dessert-spoonful  of  cliopped  chutney,  two  finely  chopped  shallots,  two  waslied 
and  finely  cliopp(Hl  imislirooms;  boil  all  together  for  about  fifteen  minutes,  add 
a  teasiioonful  of  cliopped  parsley.    Use  with  roast  meats  or  poultry. 

ORANGE  SAUCE. 

Put  into  a  stew-pan  one  and  a  half  gills  of  thick  brown  sauce,  one  ounce  of 
glaze,  a  dust  of  pep]ier,  the  strained  juice  of  a  lemon,  a  pinch  of  castor-sugar, 
tlie  strained  juice  of  three  oranges;  boil  all  together,  then  thicken  with  half  an 
ounce  of  arrow-root  that  has  been  mixed  with  a  Avine-glassful  of  sherry;  stir 
until  the  sauce  reboils,  tlien  pass  tlirough  a  tammy-doth.  Cut  the  quarters 
from  two  oranges  into  fine  slices,  free  them  from  pith  and  pips  and  add  to  the 
sauce;  make  <iuite  hot  in  tlie  l)ain-niarie;  take  the  peel  of  an  orange  that  is  freed 
from  iiitli  and  cut  into  .Tulienne  strips,  put  into  cold  water,  witli  a  pinch  of  salt, 
and  l)ring  to  a  boil,  then  strain,  rinse  in  hot  water,  and  add  to  the  sauce.  Serve 
with  Avild  duck,  teal,  turkey,  braised  ham,  etc. 

TEACH  SAUCE. 

Pour  peach-juice  from  a  can  into  a  small  saucepan,  add  equal  volume  of 
water,  a  little  nioi-e  sugar  and  eight  or  ten  raisins;  boil  this  ten  minutes,  strain, 
and  just  before  seiwing,  add  eight  drops  of  bitter  almonds. 


28  SWEET   SAUCES,  FOR    PUDDINGS,  ETC. 

PUDDING  SAUCE. 
4  tablespoonfuls  of  fiue,  white  sugar,       2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter, 
1  tablespoouful  of  flour. 
Stir  them  togetlier  to  a  cream.    Beat  the  Avhite  of  an  egg  to  a  stiff  froth,  aud 
add  it;  then  pour  into  the  dish  a  gill  of  boiling  water,  stirring  very  fast.    Flavor 
witli  lemon  or  vanilla. 

Mi's.  L.  H.  Hart,  Dresden,  Texas. 

EAGUSE  SAUCE. 
Talve  the  bones  from  raw  hare,  chop  finely,  and  put  them  into  a  stew-pan, 
with  two  or  tln-ee  green  capsicums,  a  bunch  of  herbs  (basil,  marjoram,  bay- 
leaf,  thyme  and  parsley)  and  one  ounce  of  butter;  fry  with  the  cover  on  the  pan 
for  about  fifteen  minutes,  then  add  two  raw,  fresh  mushrooms  or  a  few  peels  of 
the  same,  two  ounces  of  lean  raw  ham,  one  dessert-spoonful  of  red-currant  jelly, 
one  teaspoonful  of  any  extract  of  good  meat,  half  a  pint  of  claret,  one  fourth  of 
a  pint  of  mushroom  catchup  and  one  and  one  half  pints  of  brown  stock;  let  these 
simmer  together  on  the  side  of  the  stove  for  about  half  an  hour,  Iveeping  well 
skimmed  while  boiling,  then  strain  off  the  liquor;  mix  in  another  stew-pan  one 
ounce  of  butter  and  one  and  one  half  ounces  of  arrow-root,  then  add  a  pint  of 
the  liquor  from  the  bones,  stir  until  it  boils  again,  tammy,  and  use  after  adding 
a  few  drops  of  liquid  carmine;  serve  with  hare  either  roasted  or  braised,  or  Avith 
entrees.    The  bones  Avill  make  good  gravy  stock  by  being  reboiled. 

REX  FORD  SAUCE. 

Dissolve  one  teaspoouful  of  corn-starch  in  a  little  water,  add  it  to  one  cupful 
of  boiling  water,  with  two  thirds  of  a  cupful  of  brown  sugar,  boil  ten  minutes; 
remove  from  the  fire,  add  one  half  cupful  of  scalding-hot  vinegar,  yolks  of  two 
eggs  and  one  large  tablespoouful  of  good  butter. 

RUBANEE  SAUCE. 
Talve  one  wine-glassful  of  sherry,  the  same  of  port  wine,  six  Christiania 
anchovies  rubbed  through  a  sieve,  one  teaspoonful  of  extract  of  meat,  two  fresh 
mushrooms,  two  chopped  capsicums,  two  raAv  tomatoes,  the  juice  of  one  lemon, 
a  dust  of  pepper  and  one  pint  of  thick  brown  sauce;  reduce  one  fourth,  keep 
skimmed  while  boiling,  tammy,  and  use  for  entrees  of  birds,  meats,  etc. 

SAUCE  AUX  QUATRE  FRUITS. 
Remove,  very  thinly,  one  third  of  the  rind  of  one  lemon  and  one  orange; 
remove  remainder  with  the  thick  white  skin  very  close  to  pulp;  then  cut  each 
into  small  dice,  removing  seeds;  peel,  core  and  cut  into  dice  two  sour  apples; 
simm.er  until  tender;  then  add  one  cupfiil  of  seedless  raisins,  lemon  and  orange 
dice,  Avitli  lemon  and  orange  peel  cut  into  shreds,  and  boil  in  very  little  Avater, 
AA^hich  add  to  sauce  to  flavor.  When  about  to  serve,  add  one  teaspoonful  of 
extract  of  almonds. 

SAUCE   FOR  PUDDINGS. 

1  egg,  %  cupfid  of  flour, 

1  ctipful  of  sugar,  1  pint  of  milk. 

Boil  until  it  thickens,  and  flavor  to  suit  the  taste, 
Mrs.  h-  A.  Ashley,  Springflelcl,  Ohiq. 


SWEET    SAUCES,  FOE    PUDDINGS,  ETC.  29 

SPICED  SAUCE. 

Set  on  ILo  firo  three  fourths  of  a  pint  of  water,  oue  cupful  of  sugar;  boil 
twenty  niinute.s,  reniove  from  fire,  and  add  one  teaspoouful  each  of  extract  of 
cloves  and  c;ini;ei\ 

SUEDOISE  SAUCE. 

Take  half  a  pint  of  very  stiff  mayonnaise  sauce,  and  mix  into  it  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  finely  grated  horse-radish,  two  tablespooufuLs  of  freshly  peeled, 
finely  chopped  cucumber,  one  finely  chopped  shallot,  oue  teaspoouful  of  chopped 
capers,  then  add  oue  fourth  of  a  pint  of  stifily  whipped  cream,  and  put  aside  on 
ice  until  wanted.  Serve  with  hot  or  cold  fish,  either  grilled  or  boiled,  arti- 
cholvcs.  asparagus,  etc. 

SU(iAR  SAUCE. 

Beat  to  light  cream  one  half  cupful  of  sugar  flavored  with  one  half  teaspoou- 
ful of  extract  of  lemon  and  one  half  cupful  of  butter;  add  the  yolks  of  two 
eggs,  and  place  on  ice  until  Avanted. 

YANILEA  SAUCE. 

Put  one  half  pint  of  milk  into  a  small  saucepan  over  tbe  fire;  when  scalding 
hot,  add  the  yolks  of  three  eggs;  stir  until  as  thick  as  boiled  custard;  add,  when 
taken  from  the  fire  and  cooled,  one  tablespoonful  of  extract  of  vanilla  and  the 
whites  of  the  eggs  whipped  stiff. 

VINEGAR  SAUCE. 
1  cupful  of  water,  A  pinch  of  salt, 

1  spoonful  of  butter,  1  tablespoonful  of  flour. 

1  cupful  of  brown  sugar,  1  spoonful  of  vinegar, 

Beat  all  well  together,  pour  boiling  water  over  them,  let  them  come  to  a 
good  boil,  and  serve. 

AVEULINGTON  SAUCE. 

Slice  one  or  two  peeled  onions,  and  put  them  into  a  stew-pan,  with  an  ounce 
of  butter;  fry  them  until  a  nice  golden  color,  then  add  one  tablespoonful  of 
French  vinegar,  two  sliced  tomatoes,  three  boued  and  pounded  Christiania 
anchovies,  one  teaspoouful  of  French  mustard,  one  and  one  half  gills  of  brown 
sauce  and  oue  fourth  of  a  pint  of  good  gravy;  boil  together  for  about  twenty 
minutes,  then  rub  thi'ough  a  tammy,  rewarm  in  the  bain-marie,  add  a  few  drops 
of  liquid  carmine,  and  use  with  fish  or  steak,  etc. 

WHITE   INIUSIIllOOM  SAUCE. 

Put  half  a  pound  of  Avell-washed,  fi-esh  white  button  mushrooms  with  their 
peels  and  stalks  (or  preserved  button  ones),  chop  them  fine,  and  put  them  into 
a  saucepan,  vsith  a  quart  of  good-flavored  white  stock  (as  chicken,  veal  or 
rabbit),  the  strained  juice  of  one  lemon,  a  pinch  of  salt;  simmer  gently  on  the 
stove  for  about  lialf  an  hour,  keeping  skimmed;  stir  one  pint  of  the  liquor  onto 
two  ounces  of  butter  and  the  same  of  fine  flour  that  have  been  fried  together 
Avithout  browning,  until  it  rel)oils,  then  add  a  pinch  of  salt,  a  half  wine-glassful 
of  sherry  and  a  gill  of  thick  cream;  stir  again  until  boiling.  Use  for  entrees  of 
meat,  as  SAveetbread,  cutlets  of  chicken,  boiled  chicken,  rabbit,  pheasant,  etc. 


Garnishes,  Purees,  Farces,  Etc. 


[Farces  required  for  borders  must  be  made  stifler  than  if  required  for  masking  or 
stuffing;  this  is  eflected  by  using  proportionally  more  pauard  and  eggs.  Any  farce  left 
from  an  entree  can  be  converted  into  a  nice  soup  by  the  addition  of  stock.] 

Chapter  III, 

ASPAKAGUS  TEAS. 
J^o?"  garnishmg  so}<ps  mtd  purees. 
Scrape,  and  then  cut  off  the  points  of  some  fresh  asparagus,  put  them  into 
boiling  water,  with  a  little  salt  and  a  tiny  bit  of  soda,  and  gently  boil  for 
fifteen  mimites;  then  strain  and  use.  Cut  the  tender  part  of  the  stallcs  into  little 
lengths  of  about  one  fourth  of  an  inch;  cook  these  iu  the  same  manner  as  the 
points  in  a  separate  stew-pan.  and  use. 

BEEF  FARCE  FOR  BORDER. 

For  one  ordinary-sized  border-mold  take  eight  ounces  of  panard,  eight  otinces 
of  lean  neck  of  beef,  and  pound  separately  until  smootli:  then  mix  with  one 
ounce  of  butter,  a  few  drops  of  carmine,  a  pincli  of  salt  and  red  pei>per  and 
tAvo  and  one  half  eggs;  rub  tlu'ough  a  coarse  wire  sieve,  put  into  a  buttered 
border-mold,  and  poach  for  tifteen  minutes  in  boiling  Avater.  Veal  farce  border 
can  be  prepared  in  a  similar  manner. 

BEEF  FARCE.  FOR  STUFFING  OR  MASKING. 

5  ounces  of  beef.  2U  ra^v  yolks  of  egg, 

5  oimces  of  panai'd.  A  little  pepper,  salt  and  red  pepper. 

1  ounce  of  butter.  A  few  drops  of  carmine. 

First  pound  the  meat  aacII.  then  pound  the  panard  separately;  now  pound 

these  together,  then  mix  in  tlie  seasoning  and  yolks,  and  pass  through  a  sicA^e. 

Veal  farce  can  be  prepared  iu  the  same  AA-ay. 

BRAISED  OLIVES. 

Turn  about  a  dozen  and  a  half  oliACs.  put  them  into  a  steAA--pan.  with 
sutiicient  stock  to  coA'er  them,  add  half  a  wine-glassful  of  sherry,  and  braise  for 
about  half  an  liour  on  tlie  side  of  the  stoA'e  AA'ith  the  pan  coA'ered. 

CAUL. 

Put  it  into  cold  Avater.  with  a  little  salt:  by  changing  the  water  occasionally 
it  aaMU  keep  some  days.  Taa-cIa'c  cents'  AA'orth  AAill  be  sufficient  for  tAA'O  or  three 
entrees. 


GARNISHES,  I'UR&ES,  li'ARCES,  ETC. 


31 


CUCTTMliEU  TEAS. 

7*V>v'  .soup,  etc. 

Pool  tlio  cucuinbcr,  and  by  im'aiis  of  a  poa-cutter  scoop  out  into  poa  shapes; 
put  these  into  cohl  water,  with  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  j^ently  boil  until  tender— 
for  about  fifteen  minutes— then  strain,  and  use.  Potato  peas  are  prepared  in  a 
similar  way. 

FAKCE  OR  PUREE  OF  CHESTNUTS. 

Cut  off  the  tops  of  a  pound  and  a  half  of  nuts  and  roast  them  for  fifteen 
minutes;  then  talvc  oft"  the  outer  and  inner  slvins,  and  put  them  to  cook  in  a  pan, 
with  sutlicient  li^^lit  stock  to  cover  them,  ;ind  cook  for  three  quarters  of  an  hour, 
with  buttered  paper  over,  when  they  should  be  quite  dry;  pass  them  through  a 
wire  sieve,  then  mix  with  them  a  little  cream  or  milk,  a  pat  of  butter,  a  little 
pinch  of  salt  and  suj^ar,  a  good  tablespoonful  of  anisette,  and  color  with  li(iuid 
caiinine  to  a  pale  salmon  shade;  add  a  diist  of  red  pepper,  warm,  and  use  for 
garnishing  entrees.     It  may  also  be  used  cold. 


Rubbing  the  Puree  through  the  Sieve. 


FINANCIERE  GARNISH. 
This  is  prepared  in  bottles.     It  consists  of  truffles,  mushrooms,  cockscombs, 
etc. 

FISH  FARCE. 

Pound  ten  ounces  of  raw  whitefish,  free  from  skin  and  bone,  until  quite 
smooth;  pound  eight  ounces  of  panard,  season  with  a  little  salt,  one  ounce  of 
butter,  a  little  white  pepper;  then  mix,  and  add  three  whole  eggs  by  degrees, 
and  pass  througli  a  Avire  sieve.  Putter  the  mold  in  which  the  farce  is  to  be 
cooked,  and  sprinkle  it  over  with  coral,  put  In  the  farce  by  means  of  a  forcing- 
bag  and  a  large,  plain  pipe,  knock  it  down  well  ou  the  table  to  set  firm  in  the 
mold,  poach  for  about  tifteen  minutes,  placing  it  into  a  stew-pan  on  a  fold  of 
paper,  and  then  covering  it  with  boiling  water;  watch  the  water  reboil,  then 
draw  to  the  side  and  poach  until  firm. 


S2  GARNISHES,  PUREES,  FARCES,  ETC. 

FISH  FARCE. 
For  pies. 
Take  one  and  one  half  pounds  of  fresh  raw  wliiting,  haddock  or  cod,  twelve 
ounces  of  panard,  one  and  one  lialf  ounces  of  butter,  one  salt-spoonful  of  salt, 
one  dcBsert-spoonful  of  anchovy  essence,  a  dust  of  pepper;  pound  the  tish  and 
panard  separately  until  smooth,  then  mix,  add  the  other  ingredients  and  season- 
ings, and  work  until  smooth;  mix  with  four  raw  eggs  and  two  wine-glassfuls  of 
white  wine,  rub  through  a  fine  "o  ire  sieve,  and  use. 

GREEN  MAYONNAISE. 

Two  tablespoonfuls  of  majonnaise  sauce,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  liquid  aspic 
jelly,  a  little  sap-green,  to  make  a  pale  green  color;  mix  all,  tammy,  and  pour 
into  a  saute-pan  to  about  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick.  When  it  is  firm,  cut  it  out 
into  the  required  shapes. 

LITER  FARCE,  FOR  STUFFING  BIRDS,  ETC. 
Cut  into  small  dice  shapes  eight  ounces  of  game,  poultry  or  calf's  liver,  four 
ounces  of  fat  bacon,  four  ounces  of  lean  veal,  rabbit  or  chic^ien,  and  half  a 
small  onion;  put  all  together  into  a  saute-pan,  with  one  ounce  of  butter  or  fat, 
two  bay-leaves,  two  or  three  sprigs  of  thyme,  a  sprig  of  parsley,  a  good  pinch 
of  mignonette  pepper  and  a  little  red  pepper  and  salt,  and  fry  for  about  five 
minutes.  Then,  Avhile  it  is  liot,  pound  it  in  a  mortar  and  rub  through  a  sieve; 
mix  Avith  the  puree  one  raw  yolk  of  egg  and  two  or  three  chopped  button 
muslu'ooms  or  trufties,  place  it  in  a  forcing-bag  y\-\i\\  a  plain  pipe,  and  fill  the 
birds  with  it.  This  is  sutficient  for  four  pigeons,  and  othe'-  birds  in  proportion 
to  their  size. 

MAITRE  D'lIOTEL  BFTTER. 

Have  two  ounces  of  fresh  butter  mixed  with  a  tablespoonful  of  chopped 
parsley  and  a  tablespoouful  of  lemon-juice. 

MONTFELIER  OR  GREEN  BUTTER. 

Blanch  together  three  or  four  sprigs  of  fresh  tarragon  and  of  chervil,  parsley 
and  fennel,  with  one  shallot;  strain  dry,  and  add 

3  yolks  of  hard-boiled  eggs,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  salad-oil, 
12  fillets  of  anchovies,  %  of  a  pound  of  fresh  butter, 
A  tablespoouful  of  capers,  A  little  salt. 

4  gherkins,  A  little  sap-green, 
A  very  little  red  pepper. 

Pound  all  fogether  and  pass  through  a  hair-sieve;  set  in  a  cool  place  before 
serving,  so  that  it  may  become  quite  firm.  This  is  nice  for  garnishing  cold 
trout,  salmon,  etc. 

rOTATO  BORDER. 

Peel  and  boil  the  potatoes,  taking  care  that  they  do  not  become  soft  in  the 
cooking,  as  for  this  purpose  they  require  to  be  very  dx-y  when  cooked;  season 
with  a  little  salt  and  pass  through  a  wire  sieve.  For  three  oi-dinary-sized 
potatoes  add  one  oiuice  of  butter,  one  raw  yolk  of  egg  and  a  tiny  dust  of  red 
pepper.  Make  it  into  the  border  (using  as  little  floar  as  when  rolling  paste); 
beat  up  an  egg,  and  glaze  the  l>order  with  it;  mark  the  potato  with  the  knife 
for  ornament,  bake  a  nice  golden  color,  and  use. 


GARNISHES,  PUREES,  FARCES,  ETC. 


33 


I'UKEIO   01'    MUSHROOMS. 

Wash  well  oiio  iiouiul  of  fresh  luiislirooiiis,  diy  tlicni,  chop  fino,  and  put 
Ihciii  into  a  saul<'-i)aii,  with  one  and  one  half  oiiucos  of  bulti'r;  draw  down  on 
the  side  of  the  stove  for  sevcin  or  eijj;l!t  nunutes,  then  mix  with  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  fresldy  made  liread-crumbs;  season  with  salt  and  a  little  red  pepper; 
add  one  tahlespoonful  of  brown  sauce,  boil  up,  mix  in  a  teaspoonful  of  cliopped 
parsley,  and  use. 

rUIlEIO   OF    POTATOES. 

Peel  and  plainly  boil  thrive  or  four  larji'e  potatoes;  when  cooked  and  quite 
Avhite.  rub  them  throufih  a  wire  sieve,  put  them  into  a  clean  stew-pan,  and  mix 
in  one  ounce  of  butter,  a  tiny  pinch  of  salt,  a  tiny  dust  of  red  pepper  and  two  or 
three  tal)lesi)()onfuls  of  cream,  mak(>  (piite  hot,  and  use. 

QUENELLES  OF  CHICKEN,   VEAL  OR  RABBIT. 

Take  ten  ounces  of  raw  meat,  six  ounces  of  panard,  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
tliick  bechaniel  sauce,  one  oinice  of  butter,  two  and  one  half  egfis;  season  with 
red  i)ei)])er  and  a  wvy  little  salt.  I'ouud  the  meat  until  quite  smooth,  then 
pound  tlu!  panard  separately  and  complete  as  in  the  above  farci'S,  and  after 
passin.n'  thronj;h  the  sieve,  mix  in  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cream  and  form  into 
shapes  with  spoons. 


Shaping  Quenelles. 


RICE  FOR  BORDERS. 

Put  a  i)ound  and  a  half  of  Carolina  rice  into  enough  cold  water  to  cover  it; 
l)rin,u-  to  a  boil,  wash  it,  and  place  it  in  the  steAv-pan,  and  just  cover  it  again 
A\ith  clean,  cold  water;  cover  it  Avitli  a  buttered  paper,  let  it  come  to  a  boil, 
and  simmer  it  in  the  oven  or  on  the  side  of  the  stove  for  two  and  a  half  to  three 
liours,  during  which  time  occasionally  add  a,  little  more  water— about  a  pint  in 
all;  when  quite  cooked  and  dry,  pound  it  iintil  smooth,  and  work  it  with  the 
hand  into  a  ball,  dipping  the  hand  into  cold  water  occasionally  to  prevent  it 
sticking.  Remove  any  moisture  from  it  by  i)ressing  It  in  a  clean  cloth,  place  it 
in  a  plain,  roimd.  buttered  mold,  and  keep  it  under  pressure  until  quite  cold, 
then  (urn  it  out  and  use,  or  cut  it  into  any  desii-ed  shape. 

RICE  FOR  CURRY. 

Vnt  one  jtound  of  Patna  rice  into  a  stew-pan,  with  enough  cold  water  to 
cover  it,  and  a  pinch  of  salt;  bring  to  a  boil,  strain,  and  Avash  the  rice  in  cold 
water;  put  it  into  about  throe  quai-ts  of  boiling  wafer,  and  cook  for  twelve  to 
fifteen  minutes;  strain  it  off  into  a  colander,  pour  a  little  hot  water  over  it,  put 
a  cloth  over  th(>  colander,  and  i)nt  the  rice  to  dry  in  the  screen  for  two  or  three 
hours.     If  ])roiterly  pi-ei»ared,  evei'y  grain  will  be  s(>pnrafe. 


34  GARNISHES,  PUREES,  FARCES,  ETC. 

TOMATO  ASPIC. 
Pound  three  large,  ri]3o  tomatoes  until  smooth,  and  mix  ^^ith  one  and  one  half 
gills  of  aspic  jelly  and  a  dust  of  red  pepper;  color  with  a  few  drops  of  carmine, 
and  rub  through  a  tammy-cloth  into  a  saute-pan  to  about  a  quarter  of  an  inch 
in  depth.    Let  it  set,  then  cut  out  in  blocks,  as  described  above,  and  use. 

TOMATOES. 

For  garnishing. 
CvTt  some  ripe  tomatoes  into  slices  about  one  fourth  of  an  inch  thick,  season 
Avith  a  little  pepper  and  a  little  salt,  put  into  a  buttered  saute-pan,  and  cook  in 
a  moderate  oven,  with  a  buttered  paper  over,  for  about  ten  minutes.     Use  for 
fillets  of  beef,  sweetbread,  etc. 

TOMATO  PUREE. 
Boil  together  for  about  ten  minutes  four  tablespoonfuls  of  tomato  sauce,  four 
small  or  two  large  sliced  toaiatoes,  a  little  red  pepper,  a  few  drops  of  carmine 
and  one  ounce  of  butter;  then  rub  through  the  tammy,  Avarm  in  the  bain-marie, 
and  use.    A  dessert- spoonful  of  French  vinegar  may  be  added,  if  liked. 

TONGUE   PUREE. 

For  manldng  cold  meats,  etc. 
Pound  one  fourtli  of  a  pound  of  tongue  until  quite  smooth;  mix  it  well  into 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  bechamel  sauce,  tAvo  tablespoonfuls  of  cream,  a  few  drops 
of  liquid  carmine,  a  dust  of  pepper  and  one  half  pint  of  liquid  aspic  jelly;  pass 
the  AAiiole  througli  the  tammy,  and  use. 

VEAL,  RABBIT  OR  CHICKEN  FARCES. 

Prepare  these  in  the  same  way  as  beef,  substituting  one  of  these  meats  for 
the  beef. 

Forcemeat,  to  use  as  a  dressing  to  other  meats,  can  be  made  from  any  of 

the  following  recipes:   • 

ALMOND  FORCEMEAT. 

Beat  np  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  with  a  fourth  of  a  pint  of  good  cream,  and 
flaA'or  with  a  little  nutmeg.  Blanch  and  jiound  in  a  mortar  three  ounces  of 
sweet  almonds,  using  AA'hite  of  egg  to  moisten;  add  these,  with  three  fourths  of 
a  pound  of  light  bread-crumbs  and  three  ounces  of  butter  brolien  into  small 
bits,  to  the  egg  mixture;  stir  in,  lastly,  the  whites  of  the  eggs  whisked  to  a  solid 
froth,  and  fill  either  capon  or  turkey. 

CHESTNCTT  FORCEMEAT. 

RemoA'e  the  outer  skin  fi-om  some  chestnuts  (they  should  be  ripe  and  sound), 
boil  them  for  tAvo  or  three  minutes  to  get  ofl  the  inner  skin;  peel  them,  and  to 
preserve  their  color  throw  them  into  cold  Avater;  drain  and  weigh  them;  stew 
six  ounces  of  them  gently  for  about  tAventy  minutes  in  veal  gravy,  let  them  get 
cold,  pound  them  until  smooth,  Avith  an  equal  quantity  of  butter  or  half  their 
Aveight  in  fat  bacon,  and  add  tAvo  ounces  of  bread-crumbs  and  a  little  salt, 
lemon-rind  and  nutmeg;  bind  the  mixture  together  with  the  unbeaten  yolks  of 
two  eggs.  If  this  forcemeat  is  formed  into  cakes,  these  should  be  dipped  into 
flour  before  being  fried.     Time  to  fry.  fifteen  minutes. 


GAKNISHES,   I'UREKS,  FARCES,  ETC.  35 

CTUiKY  KOItCEMEAT  BALLS. 

roiinil  tosothor  brcnd-cninibs,  yolks  of  liard-boilod  eji'iys,  a  small  quantity  of 
butter  and  a  .st'asonin,u'  of  cuvry-powdi'r  and  salt;  make  into  small  balls.  Time 
to  fry,  two  or  three  minutes. 

EGG  FOKCI'^MEAT  BALLS. 
Pound  the  yolks  of  half  a  dozen  hard-boiled  eg-gs,  Avith  some  chopped  parsley, 
a  teaspoonfid  of  flour,  a  little  pepper,  salt  and  eayenne;  moisten  with  eiii;,  and 
make  the  paste  into  small  balls;  boil  for  two  minutes  before  using  in  soup  or 
other  dishes.     Sufficient  for  one  tureen  of  soup. 

FORCEMEAT  BALLS. 
Chop  a  fourth  of  a  jtotind  of  l)eef  suet,  a  little  lemon-peel  and  parsley,  mix 
Avith  a  basin  of  bread-crumbs,  and  tlavor  Avith  pepper,  salt  and  nutmeg;  moisten 
AAith  the  yolks  of  tAA'o  eggs,  roll  in  tlour.  and  make  up  into  small  balls;  bake  in 
a  hot  oA'en  till  crisp.  Tliis  recipe  aamII  do  for  fowls.  The  addition  of  a  little  ham, 
chopped  or  pounded,  Avill  be  found  a  considerable  improvement. 

FOKCEMEAT  BALLS,   BPvAlN. 
Clean  and  soak  the  brains  in  lukcAvarm  AAater  for  three  hoiirs,   then  boil; 
AA'hen  cold,  pound  them  in  a  mortar,  AA'illi  a  little  tlour.  some  chopped  parsley, 
salt  and  pepper;  l)ind  Avith   raw   egg,  and  make  into  small  balls;  fry  a   light 
broAA'u,  and  drop  them  into  the  tureen.    Time,  ten  minutes  to  boil. 

FOnCEME.Vr  FOR  BAKED  TIIvE. 
Prepare  three  ounces  of  bread-crundis  from  a  stale  loaf,  shred  tAA'o  ounces  of 
suet,  and  mince  eight  or  ten  bearded  oysters;  put  together  into  a  steAV-pan,  Avith 
a  flaA-oring  of  mace  (pounded),  salt  and  pepper;  moisten  Avith  the  licpior  from 
the  oysters  and  six  tablespoonfuls  of  thick  cream,  bind  Avitli  the  yolks  of  tAA'o 
eggs,  and  stir  oA-er  the  tire  till  the  forcemeat  thickens;  stuff  this  forcemeat  into 
the  pike,  and  scav  the  fish  up  securely.  Time  to  tliickeu  forcemeat,  four  or  tive 
minutes;  to  bake  pike,  one  iiour,  more  or  less.     Sufficient  for  one  pike. 

FORCEMEAT  BALLS  FOR  INIOCK-TURTLE  SOUP. 

Panada,  the  delicate  French  preparation,  will,  if  iised  in  the  composition  of 

these  balls,  be  found  a  great  improA'ement.     Prepare  it  thus:     Soak  the  crundis 

of  tAA'o  or  three  rolls,  iiut  it  into  a  small  saucepan  by  the  side  of  the  fire,  AAith 

enough  i)ale,  rich  gniA-y  to  coA^er  it;  when  sufficiently  l)oiled,   squeeze  off  the 

moisture,  put  the  panada  into  an  enameled  saucepan,  and  stir  with  a  AA'Ooden 

spoon  till  dry;  then  mix  AA'ith  it  the  yollvs  of  tAA'o  unbeaten  eggs,  and  let  it  cool 

for  use.     Pound  in  a  mortar  four  ounces  of  A-eal,  free  from  gristle,  bone  and 

,  skin;  add  the  panada  lo  this,  AAith  three  ounces  of  fresh  butter;  season  AAith 

nutmeg,  mace,  salt  and  cayenne.     If  liked,  a  little  lean  ham  and  more  seasoning 

nxiy  be  used.    Roll  into  balls,  and  boil  before  adding  to  the  soup.    Time,  twelve 

minutes  to  boil. 

FORCEMEAT  OF  BEEF. 

Take  cold  mavShed  potatoes,  some  slices  of  beef  minced  fine,  a  few  savory 
herbs,  pepper  and  salt,  mix  Avith  two  eggs  to  a  paste,  make  into  balls,  and  fry 
•  in  butter  a  rich  broAA-n;  garnish  Avith  fried  parsley. 


36  GAENISHES,  PUREES,  FARCES,  ETC. 

FOKCEMEAT  OF  FISH. 

Clear  away  the  skiu  and  bone  from  turbot,  brill  or  any  solid  fish;  mince  one 
pound  of  the  flesli  very  flue.  Stew  an  onion  in  butter,  and  when  tender,  pound 
it  in  a  mortar,  Avith  four  ounces  of  butter  broiieu  into  bits;  add  six  ounces  of 
bread  previously  soaked  in  milk  and  squeezed  dry,  a  couple  of  well-beaten  eggs, 
pepper,  salt  and  nutmeg,  and  Avhen  all  is  well  jnixed,  stir  in  the  fish,  and  make 
up  into  balls  to  be  fried  or  boiled.  Previous  to  mixing  the  fish  with  the  other 
ingredients  it  should  be  passed  through  a  wire  sieve. 

FORCEMEAT  OF  GAME. 

Clear  the  meat  from  the  bones,  and  mince  it  with  one  fourth  of  a  pound  of 
fat  bacon  to  each  pound  of  game;  flavor  with  shallot,  capers,  le-non-peel  and 
a  very  feAV  leaves  of  tarragon,  all  of  which  should  be  minced  very  flne.  Soak 
some  bread,  and  press  out  all  the  moisture;  add  it,  with  the  yolks  of  three  eggs. 
If  the  bacon  be  salt,  be  careful  not  to  oversalt  the  forcemeat;  pepper  to  taste, 
and  stir  in  the  frothed  whites  of  eggs  before  using. 

FOIICEMEAT  OF  SAUSAGE. 

Prepare  sausage  meat,  in  the  proportion  of  two  parts  of  lean  pork  to  one  of 
fat;  take  equal  quantities  of  this  and  bread-crumbs,  add  two  ounces  of  butter, 
a  seasoning  of  salt,  pepper  and  a  dram  of  mace,  pound  all  together  in  a  mortar, 
and  bind  with  the  yolks  of  two  eggs. 

FORCEMEAT  OF  VEAL. 

Chop  clean  veal,  free  from  skin  or  fat,  and  then  pound  it  in  a  mortar;  add  a 
third  of  its  weight  of  butter  or  suet  and  the  same  of  fine  bread,  which  should 
be  first  soaked  in  cold  milk  and  squeezed  dry;  pound  all  in  the  mortar;  flavor 
with  salt,  pepper  and  nutmeg,  bind  with  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  and  make  the 
paste  into  little  balls,  or  use  it  as  a  stuffing. 

OYSTER  FORCEMEAT. 

Three  cupfuls  of  bread-crumbs,  one  pint  of  oysters,  one  even  teaspoonful  of 
pepper,  one  and  one  half  tablespoonfuls  of  flnely  chopped  parsley,  one  half  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  yollcs  of  three  eggs;  strain  the 
oyster  liquor  over  the  bread-crumbs,  chop  the  oysters  fine,  and  add  tliem,  with 
the  ingredients,  to  the  bread-crumbs;  inix  all,  and  lastly  add  the  butter,  which 
shoiild  be  prcA-iously  melted. 

Mrs.  Uesiiie  Lemcke,  of  the  Gerinan-Aiuericaa  Cookiug  College,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 


Chapter  IV. 

The  quantity  of  water  iu  making  soup  should  be  proportioued  to  tlie  (luautity 
of  meat  used.  Allow  a  quart  of  water  to  a  pound  of  meat.  In  malting  soup 
from  fresh  meat,  always  put  it  on  to  cook  in  cold  water.  To  keep  the  quantity, 
fill  up  from  water  in  tea-kettle,  which  should  be  boiling,  so  as  not  to  stop  your 
soup  boiling. 

If  you  Avish  a  vegetable  soup,  coolc  the  vegetables  separately,  and  add  tliem 
to  yoiu"  SOU])  shortly  before  removal. 

If  soup  is  desired  frequently,  stock  for  making  it  quickly  can  always  be  on 
hand.  With  your  meat-cleaver,  cut  up  all  tlie  bones  left  from  your  roasts  and 
beel'steaks,  and  keep  them  in  a  covered  stone  jar.  When  you  have  sufficient, 
put  them  on  and  boil  for  three  hours;  strain  this  into  an  earthen  vessel,  and  set 
aside  to  cool.  A  tliick  top  of  grease  Avill  rise  to  the  surface,  which  can  be  taken 
off  and  used  for  frying  purposes.  The  meat-juice  beneath,  Avhich  sometimes  is 
a  thick  jelly,  can  be  diluted  if  not  Avanted  strong.  With  the  addition  of  some 
cooked  vegetables,  soup  can  readily  be  made  from  this. 

The  grease  should  always  be  skimmed  from  all  soups.  Long  and  slow  boiling 
is  necessary  to  extract  the  strength  from  the  meat.  If  boiled  rapidly  over  a  very 
hot  fire,  the  meat  becomes  hard  and  tough,  and  Avill  not  give  out  its  juices.    The 

37 


38 


SOUPS, 


cook  f-honld  season  soup  sliglilly,  as  more  can  be  added  if  necessary,  wliile  it  is 
impossible  to  remove  it. 

For  flavoring-  soups,  baj'-leaves,  sweet  marjoram,  thyme,  celery-tops  aud 
parsley  are  used,  as  suits  the  taste. 

If  a  purely  vegetable  soup  is  desired,  three  or  four  vegetables  combined  is 
sufficient;  namely,  cabbage,  potatoes,  turnips  and  onions.  If  tomatoes  are 
desired,  use  a  little  ouiou  only. 

Never  use  rice,  pearl  barley  or  noodles  iu  the  same  soup. 

Pearl  barley  should  be  cooked  by  itself,  and  then  added  to  the  soup. 

Tlie  best  soup  is  made  by  cooking  the  stock  the  day  previous,  and  adding  the 
cooked  vegetables  to  this,  heated  the  second  day. 

All  soup  should  be  Avell  skimmed,  as  often  there  is  a  scum  rising  to  the 
surface  of  all  boiling  meats. 

Never  set  away  soups  or  gravies  in  a  vessel  of  tin  or  copper;  and  it  is  best  to 
use  a  wooden  spoou. 

There  are  two  kinds  of  soups— brown  and  white.  To  make  the  brown,  use 
beef;  the  white,  veal. 

To  color  soups,  use  scorched  flour  or  burnt  sugar. 

Though  celery  may  be  obtained  at  all  times  of  the  year,  it  may  be  Avell  to 
know  that  celery-seed  is  an  excellent  substitute. 

Vermicelli  and  macaroni  for  soups  can  be  bought  of  the  grocer;  also  prepared 
bean  and  pea  flour  for  tliickening  soups. 

BEEF  SOUP. 

Take  five  or  six  pounds  of  beef,  and  put  it  into  a  large  kettle,  with  two 
gallons  of  cold  water  and  one  tablespoonful  of  salt.  Put  it  to  cooking  soon  after 
breakfast,  and  when  it  boils,  slvim  oft"  nW  the  sciun  that  rises.  Let  it  boil  slowly 
until  one  hour  before  dinner,  then  add 

2  large  onions,  1  root  of  celery,  chopped  fine, 

M>  head  of  cabbage,  8  potatoes,  quartered, 

2  carrots.  Some  parsley-leaves. 

When  the  vegetables  are  done,  put  a  piece  of  butter  in  a  skillet,  with  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  aud  stir  it  to  a  nice  broAvn.  Add  this  to  the  soup,  aud 
season  AA'ith  pepper  and  salt. 

Mrs.  R.  Jaeger,  Cleveland,  Minnesota. 

BISQUE  OF  MUTTON. 

Wash,  and  cut  into  pieces  one  neck  of  mutton,  put  it  into  a  kettle,  with  two 
quarts  of  cold  Avater,  simmer  gently  for  tAvo  hours,  then  add 
1  small  onion,  4  cloves, 

1  bay-leaf,  i/>  cupful  of  rice. 

Simmer  gently  for  thirty  minutes,  strain,  and  press  the  rice  through  a  sieve; 
return  the  soup  and  rice  to  the  kettle  and  bring  to  the  boiling  point;  add  a  pint 
of  milk  or  thin  cream  and  a  palatable  seasoning  of  salt  and  pepper,  and  it  is 
ready  to  serve.  This  makes  one  of  the  daintiest  of  luncheon  soups,  and  is 
exceedingly  benefi.cial  for  conA^alesciug  patients. 

Mrs.  S.  T.  Rorer,  Piincipal  Philadelphia  CooUing  School. 


SOUPS.  39 

BOUILLON. 

To  throe  pounds  of  rnw  meat,  eliopped  line,  add  three  <iiiarts  of  cold  Avaler, 
let  it  hardly  warm  for  the  tirst  hour,  then  increase  tlie  heat  and  let  it  gently 
simmer  for  six  hours,  stirrin.u-  it  occasionally;  tiu-n  it  into  an  earthen  vessel, 
salt  to  taste,  and  cover  till  cool;  slcim  off  all  the  fat,  squeeze  the  meat  hard  as 
you  remove  it  from  the  liiiuid,  return  the  liijuid  to  the  fire,  and  boil  rapidly  for 
a  few  mon\ents,  then  strain  carefidly  throuj;h  a  thin  cloth.  Do  not  squeeze  it, 
as  it  should  he  a  clear  amber  color.  For  entertainments,  serve  hot  in  cups;  for 
family  use,  eitlier  hot  or  cold,  as  i)referred. 

BIIEAD  sour. 

Take  toasted  bn<ad  and  break  into  pieces,  put  into  a  dish,  with  a  little  salt, 
and  pour  boiling  water  over  it;  season  with  a  tablespoonful  of  sweet  cream. 
Carrie  B.  Money,  North  Royalton,  Oliio. 

CHICKEN  SOUP. 

Take  one  well-dressed  chicken,  cut  it  into  small  pieces,  and  put  into  a  stew- 
pan  nearly  full  of  water;  add 

1  large  tomato,  14  pod  of  red  pepper,  cut  fine, 

1  large  onion,  i/^  cupful  of  rice. 

Salt  to  suit  the  taste.    If  tho  chicken  is  not  fat,  add  a  bit  of  butter. 
Mrs.  J.  T.,  Dublin  Depot,  Virginia. 

CLAM  SOUP. 

Open  fifteen  sfl'awbei-ry  clams;  put  them  into  an  enameled  kettle,  with  one 
quart  of  boiling  ^Aater;  boil,  removing  all  scum  that  rises.  Stir  one  tablespoon- 
ful of  corn-starch  into  a  cupful  of  milk,  with  a  little  salt,  pepper  and  a  small 
piece  of  butter;  pour  on  the  clams,  and  let  boil  until  done,  as  the  starch  requires 
cocking.  Beat  up  one  egg  A^ith  a  little  milk,  and  remove  your  kettle  from  the 
fire;  stir  in  your  beaten  egg  carefully,  else  it  will  be  stringy;  send  to  the  table. 
Dora  V.  Harvey,  Amsterdam,  New  Yorls. 

CLEAB  SOUP. 
Take  one  quart  of  flavored  stock,  made  either  from  bones  or  fresh  meat,  skim 
it,  and  pour  AAithout  sediment  into  a  stew-pan;  while  it  is  cold,  stir  in  one  half 
pound  of  beef  without  either  fat  or  sinew,  and  cut  very  small,  one  carrot  scraped 
to  pulp,  one  turn!])  and  one  leek  cut  into  dice;  keep  stirring  until  the  liquor  is 
on  the  point  of  boiling,  then  draAV  the  stew-pan  back,  skim,  and  let  simmer  for 
twenty  minutes;  strain  slowly  through  a  .ielly-bag  until  clear.  The  soup  will 
become  cloudy  if  allowed  to  stand  long  liefore  being  used.  If  liked,  it  can  be 
clarified  with  Avhite  of  egg,  but  white  of  egg  impoverishes  soup,  while  beef 
enriches  it. 

CLEAR  SOUP  (MADE  FBOM  BONE). 

Take  the  bones  of  a  piece  of  roast  beef,  which  should  weigh,  before  cooking, 
seven  or  eight  pounds;  or  if  this  is  not  at  hand,  one  pound  of  fresh  bones;  lirealc 
them  into  small  pieces,  and  put  into  a  stew-pan,  with  three  quarts  of  cold  water; 
let  the  liquor  boil,  tlien  draw  the  stew-])an  to  the  side  of  the  fire  and  let  simmer 
gentlv  foi  six  hours;  carefully  remove  the  scum  as  it  rises,  strain,  and  leave  it 


40  SOUPS. 

until  the  next  day.  Remove  every  particle  of  fat,  and  put  it  into  a  stew-pan 
(being  careful  to  leave  any  sediment  at  the  bottom);  add  one  large  carrot  cut 
into  slices,  one  turnip,  one  onion  and  one  half  dram  of  bruised  celery-seed  tied 
in  muslin;  let  simmer  for  one  and  one  half  hours.  If  the  liquid  is  very  much 
reduced,  add  a  little  cold  water,  so  as  to  keep  up  the  quantity  to  three  pints. 
Season  it  while  boiling  with  pepper,  salt  and  a  small  lump  of  sugar;  strain 
again,  and  skim  it  carefully  from  time  to  time.  In  order  to  make  it  quite  clear 
and  bright,  Avhisk  the  whites  of  tAvo  eggs  with  one  half  pint  of  water,  and  stir 
briskly  into  the  soup  Avhen  it  is  just  warm;  let  it  boil,  and  gently  lift  ofE  the 
scum  as  it  rises;  draAv  the  stew-pan  back  a  little,  and  keep  boiling  gently  for  one 
half  hour;  let  it  stand  to  settle,  and  strain  through  a  jelly-bag  tAA'o  or  three  times 
if  necessary.  It  requires  the  white  of  one  egg  to  each  pint  of  soup.  Add  one 
tea  spoonful  of  extract  of  beef,  and  a  little  bi'OAvning  if  the  color  is  too  liglit,  but 
care  must  be  talcen  in  this.  This  soup  may  be  A^aried  to  anj'  extent;  carrots, 
turnips,  onions,  celery,  green  peas,  asparagus,  A'ermicelli  or  macaroni  may  be 
added.  Macaroni  and  vermicelli  should  be  boiled  separately,  or  they  will  spoil 
the  clearness.    Sufficient  for  three  pints. 

CLEAR  WHITE  CHICKEN  BROTH,  WITH  TAPIOCA. 

[Favorite  soup  of  Madame  Adelina  Patti,  as  served  at  the  Louisville  Hotel,  Louisville, 
Kentucky] 

The  day  before  the  broth  is  required,  disjoint  one  foAvl,  put  into  a  stew-pan, 
and  coA'er  Avith  water;  add 

1  veal-bone,  and  salt  it,  A  little  whole  white  pepper, 

1  bay-leaf,  1  staliv  of  celery,         , 

1  onion,  V2  stalk  of  leek, 

A  little  garlic,  1  parsley-root, 

1  blade  of  mace,  1  small  carrot. 

Boil  slowly  for  five  hours,  strain  through  a  cloth,  and  set  aside  to  cool;  then 
set  in  the  ice-box  until  the  next  day;  remove  all  the  grease.  Chop  one  pound 
of  lean  veal,  mix  Avith  the  whites  and  shells  of  four  eggs,  add  the  stock,  and 
whip  thoroughly;  put  over  a  moderate  fire,  and  boil  slowly  until  clarified;  then 
strain,  and  add  the  boiled  tapioca.  Serve  with  small,  round  pieces  of  toast  on 
a  separate  plate. 

To  Boil. Tapioca.— Cover  four  ounces  of  tapioca  (pearl)  with  plenty  of  boil- 
ing water,  and  stir  until  it  becomes  transparent;  Avash  it  in  plenty  of  cold  water, 
and  add  to  tlie  broth. 

Eugene  Stuvvesant  Howard,  member  of  the  Universal  Cookery  and  Food  Association, 
London,  England,  and  Chef  de  Cuisine,  Louisville  Hotel,  Louisville,  Kentucky. 

CONSOMME. 
Chop  six  pounds  of  lean  beef  (shin  or  round),  put  into  a  soup-pot,  and  add 
1  carrot,  4  cloves, 

1  onion,  1  blade  of  mace, 

1  stalk  of  leek,  1  teaspoonful  of  whole  black  pepper, 

A  little  celery,  6  raw  eggs,  Avhites  and  shells  of. 

Cover  this  Avith  tAVO  gallons  of  cold  white  stock,  stir  Avell,  and  place  on  a  hot 
range,  stirring  it  occasionally;  slice  one  onion,  put  on  range-top  to  brown,  and 


SOUPS.  41 

add  to  the  liciuid,  which  will  give  the  ooiisouiiiie  a  iiico  color.  Cliickcii  bones  or 
wings  and  tomato  cuttings  can  also  be  added  if  on  hand.  Salt  to  suit  the  taste, 
and  boil  .slowly  for  four  hours;  when  clear,  strain  it  through  a  cloth,  remove  all 
grease  tliat  may  have  accumulated,  and  serve.  Hot,  it  may  be  served  in  plates 
or  cups;  cold,  only  in  cups.  To  hot  consonune  we  add  garnishings,  such  as  ver- 
micelli, green  peas,  macaroni  cut  into  small  pieces,  tapioca,  etc. 

Eugene  Stuyvesaiit  Howard,  Member  of  the  Universal  Cookery  and  Food  A.«.sociation, 
Loudon,  England,  and  CUef  de  Cuisine,  Lousiville  Hotel,  Louisville,  Kentucky 

COKN  SOLTP. 
Take  one  half  dozen  ears  of  corn,  and  with  a  sharp  knife  cut  open  each  row  of 
grain,  then  cuv  them  off  the  cobs;  put  the  cobs  into  one  (piart  of  boiling  water, 
and  let  them  l)oil  about  ten  minutes;  take  them  out,  and  put  in  the  corn,  and 
let  it  boil  for  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes;  add  one  pint  of  milk  and  a  lump  of 
butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  and  let  it  come  to  a  boil;  season  with  pepper  and  salt 
to  suit  the  taste. 

CREAM  OF  PEARL  BARLEY  A  LA  PRINCESS. 

LTse  white  consomme  of  game  in  preparing  the  cream  of  barley,  the  puree 
being  finished  according  to  the  usual  method.     When  about  to  send  the  soup  to 
the  table,  pour  it  into  a  tureen  containing  scallops  of  the  tillet  of  three  young 
red-legged  partridges,  roasted  a  few  minutes  pre\iously  for  the  purpose. 
Louis  C.  Zerega,  Chef  Hotel  Ponce  de  Leon,  St.  Augustine,  Florida. 

CRECY  SOUP,  WITH  WHOLE  RICE. 
Wash,  blanch,  and  boil  in  consomme  half  a  pound  of  Carolina  rice;  add  this 
to  a  sutticient  (juantity  of  crecy  or  carrot  soup,  either  prepared  for  the  occasion 
or  reserved  from  the  previous  day's  dinner,  mix  these  gently,  and  take  care  not 
to  break  the  grains  of  the  rice  nor  to  serve  it  too  thick. 

Note. — This  may  be  varied  by  substituting  macaroni,  vermicelli  or  any  kind 
of  Italian  paste  for  the  rice.  This  ride  is  applicable  to  puree  of  vegetables  ir 
general. 

Louis  C.  Zerega,  Chef  Hotel  Ponce  de  Leon,  St.  Augustine,  Florida. 

ENGLISH  HOTCHPOTCH. 
Put  one  pint  of  peas  into  one  (piai-t  of  water,  and  l)oil  them  until  they  are  so 
tender  as  to  be  easily  pulped  through  a  sieve;  take  of  the  leanest  end  of  a  loin  of 
mutton  tliree  pounds,  cut  it  into  chops,  and  put  into  a  stew-pan,  with  one  gallon 
of  wat(U",  four  carrots  and  four  tiu'uips  cut  into  small  pieces,  season  with  salt  and 
peppi  r,  and  boil  until  all  the  vegetables  are  (luite  tender;  put  in  the  pulped  peas, 
one  head  of  celery  and  one  sliced  onion;  boil  fifteen  minutes,  and  serve. 

CIBLET  SOUP. 
Take  the  feet,  neck,  pinions  and  giblets  of  three  chickens  or  two  geese,  one 
and  one  half  ]>onnds  of  veal,  one  half  pound  of  ham  and  tliree  (juarts  of  water; 
crack  the  bones,  cut  up  the  gililets,  and  cut  the  meat  into  slices;  put  all  together 
over  the  fire,  witli  a  bunch  of  herbs  and  a  pinch  of  allspice;  stew  slowly  for  two 
hours;  pick  onr  the  giblets,  and  set  aside  in  a  pan  where  they  will  keep  warm; 
take  up  a  teacupful  of  the  soup,  and  stir  into  it  a  large  tablespoonful  of  flour 
which  has  been  wet  with  cold  water,  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter;  return  to 
the  pot,  and  boll  fifteen  minutes;  season  to  taste,  and  add  the  giblets. 


42  SOUPS. 

GIB  LET  sour  (GERMAN). 

Put  one  quart  of  haricot-beans  into  cold  water  the  daj-  before  the  soup  is 
wanted,  and  let  soak  over  night;  drain  them,  boil  until  tender,  and  press  one 
half  of  them  through  a  coarse  sieve.  Stew  the  giblets  with  two  quarts  of  stoclv 
and  seasoning;  when  the  giblets  are  tendei*,  cut  them  into  small  pieces,  strain 
the  soup,  and  mix  it  smoothly  with  the  beans,  both  mashed  and  whole;  add  the 
giblets,  let  them  get  hot  once  more,  and  serve.  The  soup  should  be  as  thick  as 
cream.  A  variation  may  be  made  by  boiling  very  small  potatoes  instead  of  beans 
in  the  soup  until  lender,  but  unbroken.  Time,  two  and  one  half  hours  to  prepare 
the  soup.    Sufficient  for  six  persons. 

GREEN-PEA  SOUP. 

Wash  a  small  quantity  of  lamb  in  cold  water,  and  put  it  into  a  soup-pot,  with 
six  qua«i-ts  of  cold  water;  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  salt,  and  set  it  over  a  moder- 
ate fire;  let  it  boil  gently  for  tAvo  iiours,  then  sliim  it  clear;  add  one  quart  of 
slielled  peas  and  one  teaspoonful  of  pepper;  cover  it,  and  let  boil  one  half  hour; 
then,  having  scraped  the  sliins  from  a  quart  of  small,  young  potatoes,  add  them 
to  the  soup;  cover  the  pot,  and  let  it  boil  one  half  hour  longer;  work  four  ounces 
of  butter  and  a  dessert-spoonful  of  flour  together,  and  .add  to  the  soup  ten  or 
twelve  minutes  before  taking  it  off  the  tire.  SerA^e  the  meat  on  a  dish  with  pars- 
ley sauce  over  it,  and  the  soup  in  a  tureen. 

GUMBO  SOUP. 

Six  pounds  of  fresh  beef;  alloAving  a  little  less  than  a  quart  of  water  for  each 
pound,  boil  one  hour;  add  two  quarts  of  finely  minced  oliras,  one  dozen  ripe 
tomatoes,  one  half  pint  of  Lima  beans,  four  leaA^es  of  finely  cut  parsley,  two 
thinly  sliced  turnips;  season  to  taste.    Cook  one  and  one  half  hours  longer, 

JENNY  LIND'S  SOUP. 

Make  about  three  quarts  of  stock,  and  strain  through  a  fine  sieve  into  a 
middle-sized  stcAv  pan;  add  tliree  ounces  of  sago,  and  let  it  boil  gently  for  twenty 
minutes,  and  slviin;  just  previous  to  serving,  brealv  four  fresh  eggs,  place  the 
yolks,  entirely  free  from  the  whites,  in  a  basin,  beat  Avell  AAath  a  spoon,  and 
add  one  gill  of  cream;  take  the  soup  from  the  fire,  pour  in  tlie  yollvs,  and  stir 
quickly  for  one  minute;  serve  immediately.  Do  not  let  it  boil  after  adding  the 
eggs  or  it  will  curdle,  and  would  not  be  fit  to  be  partaken  of.  The  stock  being 
previously  seasoned,  it  only  requires  the  addition  of  one  half  teaspoonful  of 
sugar,  a  little  more  salt,  pepper  and  nutmeg;  thyme,  parsley  and  bay-leaf  will 
agreeably  vary  the  flavor  Avithout  interfering  Avith  the  quality. 

MILK  SOUP. 

1  quart  of  cold  Avater,  1  tablespoonful  of  butter, 

1  pint  of  milk.  2  boiled  and  mashed  potatoes, 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  tapioca. 

Let  this  mixture  boil  before  adding  the  tapioca,  and  then  boil  ten  minutes. 
An  onion  may  be  added,  if  preferred. 
Mrs.  J.  B.  A.,  Georgetown,  Delaware. 


SOUPS.  43 

MOCK-TUUTLE  SOUP. 

Put  two  ouuei'S  of  butter  iato  a  saucepan,  aud  set  over  the  fire;  when  melted, 
add  a  tablespoouful  of  flour,  stir,  aud  when  turning  brown,  add  tlu'ee  pints  of 
broth  (either  beef  broth  or  broth  made  by  boiliuj^-  a  calf's  head);  boil  five 
minutes,  and  then  add  about  four  ounces  of  calf's  head  cut  into  dice,  mush- 
rooms and  Irutlles  cut  into  dice;  boil  live  minutes.  Cut  two  hard-l)olled  eggs  and 
half  a.  lemon  into  dice,  and  put  into  the  tureen  and  turn  the  soup  over. 

MONGOLE  SOUP. 

Place  a  saucepan  witli  half  a  pint  of  dried  peas  over  the  fire,  cover  with  cold 
beef  stock,  boil  until  tender,  and  tlien  pass  through  a  sieve.  Cut  one  medium- 
sized,  well-cleaned  carrot  into  tliin  slices,  lay  several  slices  over  one  another,  aud 
cut  into  strl])s  like  straws;  cut  one  white  onion  the  same  way,  and  add  to  this 
one  leek  cut  fine.  Place  the  vegetables  over  the  fire,  with  one  tal)lespoonful  of 
butter;  cook  ten  minutes,  then  cover  with  one  pint  of  boiling  meat  stock,  aud 
cook  until  tender.    Stew  one  half  of  a  can  of  tomatoes,  with 

y-2  tablespoouful  of  l)ulter,  1,4  teaspoonful  of  pepper, 

%  teaspoonful  of  salt,  1  teaspoonful  of  sugar. 

For  twenty  minutes,  and  then  strain.  As  soon  as  the  vegetables  are  done,  add 
the  pea  puree,  the  strained  tomatoes  and  one  quart  of  good  stock;  cook  for  a 
feAV  minutes,  season  to  taste,  and  serve. 

Mrs.  Gesine  Lemcke,  Principal  German-American  Cooliing  College,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 

aruTTON  SOUP. 

Cut  a,  neck  of  mutton  into  four  pieces,  put  it  aside;  take  a  slice  of  the  gam- 
mon of  bacon  aud  put  it  into  a  saucepan,  with  a  quart  of  peas,  with  enough 
water  to  boil  them;  let  the  peas  boil  to  a  pulp,  and  strain  tliem  through  a  cloth; 
put  them  aside;  to  boil  the  mutton,  add  enough  water  to  that  in  which  the 
bacon  and  peas  were  boiled;  slice  three  turnips,  as  many  carrots,  and  boil  slowly 
for  an  hoin-;  add  sweet  herbs,  onions,  cabbage  and  lettuce,  chopped  small,  stew 
a  quarter  of  an  hour  longer,  sufficient  to  cook  the  mutton,  then  take  it  out;  take 
some  fresh  green  peas,  add  them,  Avith  some  chopped  jiarsley  and  the  peas  first 
boiled,  to  the  soup,  put  in  a  lump  of  butter  rolled  in  fiour,  and  stew  till  the  green 
peas  are  done. 

NOODLES  FOR  SOUP. 

Take  tAvo  eggs,  a  little  salt,  and  beat  them  thoroughly;  add  flour  enough  to 
mold;  roll  it  out  very  thin,  sprinkle  the  top  of  the  crust  AAith  flour,  and  begin- 
ning at  one  edge,  roll  up  in  a  long  roll,  then  with  a  sharp  knife  cut  up  into  as  fine 
shreds  or  strips  as  possible;  after  sprinkling  flour  OA'er  each  piece,  shake  it  off 
through  the  fingers,  and  it  AAill  straighten  the  noodles  out.  I^ay  them  on  the 
pie-board,  and  set  Avhere  they  Avill  dry  hard;  then  they  are  ready  for  the  soup. 
Let  them  boil  in  it  for  twenty  minutes,  and  serve  hot. 

NOODLE   SOUP,  WrrH   POTATOES. 

Put  one  half  pint  of  ])utter,  Avith  a  little  salt,  into  a  kettle  of  boiling  water. 
Drop  into  this  one  dozen  sliced  potatoes;  Avheu  done,  add  noodles  prepared  from 
the  above  recipe. 


44  SOUPS. 

OKRA  SOUP. 

Fry  one  pouud  of  round  steak  cut  into  bits,  two  tablospooufuls  of  butter  and 
one  sliced  onion  until  very  brown;  put  this  into  three  quarts  of  water  in  a  soup- 
Ivettle,  and  boil  slowly  one  hour;  then  add  one  pint  of  sliced  okra,  and  simmer 
two  lioui-s;  season  with  salt  and  pepper;  strain,  and  serve. 
Mrs.  T.  B.  J.,  Tuscumbia,  Alabama. 

OX-TAII.  SOUP  (CLEAR). 
Cut  a  tine,  fresh  ox-tail  into  pieces  one  inch  long,  and  divide  the  thick  part 
into  four;  wash  these  pieces,  and  throw  them  into  boiling  water  for  fifteen  min- 
utes, then  drain,  and  wipe  them  with  a  soft  cloth;  puc  into  a  stew-pan,  with  two 
carrots,  one  onion  stuck  with  thi-ee  cloves,  a  sprig  of  parsley,  a  small  piece  of 
thyme,  two  or  three  sticks  of  celery,  one  half  blade  of  mace,  one  teaspoonful  of 
salt,  six  or  eight  peppercorns  and  one  quart  of  water  or  clear  stock;  boil,  remove 
the  scum  carefully  as  it  rises,  then  draw  the  stew-pan  to  the  side  of  the  fire,  and 
let  simmer  very  gently  until  the  meat  is  tender;  lift  out  the  pieces  of  ox-tail, 
strain  the  soup,  and  if  it  is  not  clear  and  bright,  clarify  it  according  to  the  direc- 
tions given  in  clear  soup.  Turn  three  carrots  and  two  turnips  into  any  small 
shapes  that  may  be  preferred,  or  into  thin  shreds  one  inch  long,  being  careful 
only  that  they  are  all  of  the  same  size.  Oilier  vegetables  may  be  used  as  Avell  as 
txn-nips  and  carrots— such  as  French  beans,  green  peas,  asparagus,  celery,  onions, 
etc.  Put  these  into  a. saucepan,  pour  the  clarified  stoclv  over  them,  and  simmer 
gently  until  the  vegetables  are  tender.  Heat  the  pieces  of  ox-tail,  pour  the  soup 
over  them,  and  serve  as  hot  as  possible.  Time,  about  three  hours  to  simmer  the 
ox-tail.    Sufficient  for  six  to  eight  persons. 

OYSTER  SOUP. 
Pour  one  pint  of  water  over  one  quart  of  oysters,  pick  over  the  oysters 
carefully,  and  drain;  strain  the  liquor,  and  put  over  the  fire  to  boil;  skim  well,' 
add  the  oysters,  and  cook  thirty  minutes;  rub  through  a  sieve.  Put  one  quart 
of  milli,  one  small  slice  of  onion  and  a  bit  of  mace  into  a  double  boiler;  cook 
one  half  hour.  JMelt  four  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  add  three  tablesiioonfuls  of 
flour,  and  mix  well.  Add  the  hot  milk  slowly,  and  then  add  the  oyster  liquor. 
Season  with  salt,  pepper  and  celery  salt.  The  milk  can  be  cooking  in  the  double 
boiler  while  the  oysters  are  being  prepared. 

Mrs.  Althea  Somes,  Teacher  of  Cookery,  Manual  Training  School,  Boston,  Mass. 

OYSTER  SOUP. 

%  pint  of  water.  The  liquor  from  one  quart  of  oysters, 

3  quarts  of  sweet  milk,  i/^  pound  of  butter. 

Salt  and  pepper  to  suit  the  taste. 
Let  it  come  to  a  boil.     Then  add  the  oysters,  and  add  one  and  one  fourth 
pounds  of  rolled  crackers,  and  let  it  all  boil  a  few  minutes.    The  addition  of  half 
a  dozen  grains  of  whole  allspice  to  oyster  soup  gives  a  very  nice  flavor. 
Mrs.  Carrie  Bell,  Eminence,  Kentucky. 

PEA  SOUP. 

Take  four  pounds  of  knuckle  of  veal,  to  which  add  one  pound  of  bacon;  cut 
them  into  iiieces  and  put  into  a  soup-kettle,  with  a  sprig  of  mint  and  five  quarts 
of  water;  boil  and  slcim  well;  when  the  meat  is  boiled  to  rags,  strain,  and  to  the 


SOUPS.  45 

liquor  add  oiio  quart  of  youns  grt'iii  peas;  boil  uulil  the  peas  are  entirely  dis- 
solved. Have  ready  two  quarts  of  green  peas  that  have  been  boiled  in  auotlier 
pot,  with  a  sprig  of  mint  and  two  or  three  lumps  of  white  sugar;  add  these  to 
your  soup  liquor. 

rEITKlt  I'OT. 

Put  foiu-  eow-feet  and  fouj*  pounds  of  tripe  to  boil  with  water  to  cover  them, 
and  a  little  salt;  wlien  simmered  to  pieces,  take  them  out,  and  sicim  and  strain 
the  liquor;  cut  up  the  tripe,  put  it  into  the  pot,  and  pour  the  liquor  over  it;  add 
sliced  onions,  potatoes  and  herbs,  also  small  dumplings  made  with  tlour  and 
butter,  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  A  little  butler  rolled  in  tlour  is  an 
impi'ovement.    When  done,  serve  in  a  tureen. 

POTAGE   A   LA   ROYALE. 

Melt  one  tablespoonful  of  butter;  add  to  it  one  tablespoonful  of  corn-starch, 
and  pour  over  it  sloAvly  tln-ee  cupfuls  of  Avhite  stock;  add  one  teasjioonful  of  salt, 
one  salt-spoonful  of  pe]>per,  one  salt-spoonful  of  celery  salt,  one  lialf  cupful  of 
green  peas  and  one  lialf  cupful  of  carrot  dice,  and  cook  for  ten  minutes;  then 
add  one  cupfid  of  cream  and  one  A\'ell-beaten  egg. 

Miss  Ida  M.  Foster,  City  Hospital,  Will?esbarre,  Pennsylvania. 

POTAGE  DE   SAUTE   (SOUP   OF   HEALTH). 

Pick,  wash  and  cut  up  some  sorrel  and  a  liltle  cicely;  boil  it  down  in  a  little 
butter,  moisten  with  consonnne  (meat  jelly),  and  let  it  cook  ten  minutes;  as  a 
thickening,  add  the  yolks  of  one  or  two  eggs.  Put  into  the  soup  some  asparagus- 
tops,  season  to  taste,  and  serAe. 

Louis  Marche,  Chef  of  Burnet  House,  Cincinnati,  Ohio. 

POTAGE  JULIENNE. 

Cut  some  carrots  and  turnips  (more  carrots  than  turnips)  into  thin  slices  one 
and  one  half  inches  long;  also  cut  some  cabbage,  leek  and  one  onion.  Put  a 
morsel  of  butter  into  a  stcAV-pan,  and  let  melt  slowly;  then  put  the  cut  veg- 
etables into  the  pan,  adding  a  little  salt  and  a  pinch  of  sugar;  parboil  the 
vegetables,  stirring  them  from  time  to  time  without  breaking  tliem,  until  they 
are  slightly  browned;  moisten  with  consomme  (meat  jelly),  and  let  the  whole 
cook  for  tAA'o  hours;  skim  the  soup,  add  some  boiled  green  peas,  and  serve. 
Louis  Marche,  Chef  of  Burnet  House,  Cincinnati,  Ohio. 

POTAGE  PARMENTIER. 

Take  some  large  potatoes,  and  pick,  wash  and  cut  them  into  pieces;  put  them 
into  a  stew-pan,  with  a  piece  of  butter  and  a  little  salt;  add  a  large  handful  of 
cress,  one  onion  cut  into  fourths,  and  the  white  of  a  leek;  moisten  with  water 
sufficient  to  cook  the  vegetables  into  a  soup,  then  pass  the  whole  through  a 
strainer;  mix  with  the  soup  some  consomme  (meat  jelly)  so  as  to  give  it  the 
proper  consistency;  finish  with  a  little  butter,  and  pour  the  soup  into  a  tureen 
over  some  crusts  thiit  have  been  fried  in  butter. 

Louis  Marche,  Chef  of  Burnet  House,  Cincinnati,  Ohio. 


46 


SOUPS. 


POTATO  SOUP. 
Pare  and  cut  into  dice  four  or  six  good-sized  potatoes,  put  on  to  boil  in'  tliree 
pints  of  cold  Avater.  Tlie  potatoes  sliould  cook  entirelj'  fine.  Then  add  one  pint 
of  milli,  a  lump  of  butter,  a  very  little  salt  and  one  Avell-beaten  egg.  If  not 
disagreeable  to  the  taste,  one  dozen  whole  allspice  greatlj-  improves  this.  In  all 
cases  the  quantity  of  liquid  must  be  Icept  up  by  adding  hot  water. 

PUREE  OF  GREEN  PEAS  A  LA  VICTORIA. 
Just  before  dinner-time  roast  two  plump  spring  chicliens;  as  soon  as  they 
are  taken  off  tlie  spit,  cut  the  breast  and  legs  into  small  members,  put  them  into 
a  soup-tureen,  with  two  dozen  sjnall  quenelles  of  to^xl,  and  then  pour  over  the 
whole  a  puree  of  green  peas  nearly  boiling  and  prepared  in  the  usual  manner, 
and  send  to  the  table. 

Louis  C.  Zerega,  Chef  Hotel  Ponce  de  Leon,  St.  Augustine,  Florida. 

PUREE  OF  SPRING  HERBS. 
1  double  handful  of  sorrel,    3  cabbage-lettuces, 
1  handful  of  chervil,  A  little  balm, 

1  handful  of  dandelion,  A  little  borage. 
Wash  these  tlioroughly,  and  put  into  a  stew-pan,  with  two  ounces  of  fresh 
butter,  and  set  on  the  stove  to  simmer,  stirring  them  quickly  all  the  time,  then 
add  three  pints  of  good  consomme  of  veal  or  fowl.  Allow  the  soup  to  boil  gently 
for  half  an  hour,  and  just  before  sending  to  the  table,  finish  the  soup  by  mixing 
into  it  gradually  a  seasoning  of  the  yolks  of  six  eggs,  one  half  pint  of  cream,  a 
pat  of  butter,  a  little  grated  nutmeg  and  pounded  sugar;  put  some  duchess  crusts 
into  a  tureen,  pour  the  soup  over  them,  and  serve.  Be  careful  to  not  allow  the 
soup  to  boil  after  the  eggs  are  added,  as  in  this  case  the  eggs  would  curdle,  and 
thereby  render  the  soup  unsightly,  if  not  unpalatable. 

Louis  C.  Zerega,  Clief  Hotel  Ponce  de  Leon,  St.  Augustine,  Florida. 

QUENELLES. 
Quenelles  are  small  balls  made  of  delicate  French  forcemeat,  composed  of 
panada,  calf's  udder  and  the  flesh  of  veal,  poultry  or  fish,  thoroughly  pounded, 
then  seasoned  and  moistened  with  egg.  They  take  their  names  from  the  meats 
of  which  they  are  composed.  Great  care  and  patience  are  required  in  making 
them,  and  these  must  be  directed  principally  to  pounding  the  ingredients  thor- 
oughly, first  separately  and  afterward  togetlier.  Quenelles  are  served  either  in 
soups  or  witli  rich  sauce,  as  a  ragout,  or  they  maj'  be  dipped  in  egg  and  bread- 
crumbs, fried  in  hot  fat,  and  served  as  croquettes.  Wlien  the  forcemeat  is  made, 
it  is  always  best  to  test  a  little  piece  before  poaching  or  frying  the  whole  of  the 
preparation.  To  do  this,  a  small  ball  should  be  molded  and  thrown  into  fast- 
boiling  water.  If,  when  it  is  taken  out,  the  quenelle  is  light,  firm  and  well 
seasoned,  no  alteration  is  necessary;  if  it  is  too  firm,  a  little  water  may  be  added, 
and  if  not  firm  enough,  the  yolk  of  an  egg  will,  in  all  probability,  make  it  of  the 
proper  consistency. 

QUENELLES  FOR  WHITE  AND  CLEAR  SOUPS. 

Melt  one  ounce  of  butter  in  a,  stew-pan  over  a  gentle  fire;  beat  it  up  with  a 
little  flour  and  some  thick  cream,  as  much  as  will  make  a  smooth  paste;  add 


SOUPS.  47 

two  ouiu'os  of  boiled  macaroni,  two  ounces  of  grated  Paruicsau  cheese,  a  little 
salt,  \)ei)i)er  and  f;rated  nutmeg;  beat  the  mixture  over  the  fire  until  it  is  smooth 
and  fivm,  and  leaves  the  sides  of  the  stew-pan  with  tlie  spoon.  Mold  it  into 
(luenelh's  with  a  teaspoon  wliich  has  been  dipped  into  hot  water,  and  poach  them 
in  boiliui;-  gravy  until  they  are  done  througli;  lift  them  out  with  a  sivimmer,  and 
put  them  into  the  tureen  with  the  soup. 

ricp:  soup. 

Take  white  stock,  season  it.  and  eitlier  whole  rice  boiled  till  very  tender,  or 
the  flour  of  rice  may  be  used;  one  half  pound  will  be  sufiicieut  for  two  quarts 
of  broth. 

TOMATO  SOUP. 

Take  one  dozen  ripe  tomatoes  or  one  can  of  tomatoes,  and  put  over  the  fire  in 
one  quart  of  water;  when  thoroughly  cooked,  strain,  and  add  one  pint  of  milk 
or  cream,  a  lump  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  salt  to  taste  and  a  very  little  thick- 
ening of  flour.    Serve  hot. 

TOMATO  SOUP. 

Take  one  can  of  tomatoes  and  put  on  to  boil  in  a  soup-pot;  add  one  pint  of 
water  at  the  end  of  one  lialf  hour's  boiling,  keeping  liquid  enough  so  it  will  not 
burn;  add  one  quart  of  milk,  a  lump  of  butter  the  size  of  an  e'fXfX,  and  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste;  when  this  comes  to  a  boil,  add  one  level  tablespoonful  of  soda. 
Serve  with  crackers. 

TUPvTLE  SOUP. 

Kill  the  turtl(>  the  night  before  it  is  to  be  used,  and  hang  up  to  bleed.  In  the 
morning.  sei»ai'ate  the  shells,  taking  care  not  to  break  the  gall;  put  the  eggs,  fins 
and  flesh  into  cold  water,  removing  carefully  the  black  skin  from  the  fins.  Put 
the  turtle  to  boil  in  twice  as  much  water  as  you  wish  soup,  to  allow  for  boiling 
away;  let  it  boil  for  two  hours,  skimming  it  well;  then  add  six  slices  of  nice 
ham  and  one  fourtli  of  a  pound  of  fresh  butter,  and  let  it  boil  three  lioiu's  more. 
About  an  hour  before  it  is  done,  add  one  gill  of  rice,  one  gill  of  fiour  creamed 
with  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one  finely  minced  onion,  two  stalks  of 
chopped  celery,  a  little  bunch  of  thyme,  half  a  teaspoonful  each  of  cloves  and 
allt-pice;  cook  for  one  hour  more. 

VEAL  BUOTII  (KPOWN). 

Slice  one  or  tAvo  onions,  and  fry  them  in  hot  fat  until  they  are  browned,  but 
not  at  all  burnt;  cut  one  pound  of  veal  into  slices,  and  break  the  bone  belonging 
to  it  into  small  pieces;  take  up  flie  onions  with  a  slice,  and  brown  the  meat  in 
the  same  fat;  pour  thi-ee  pints  of  stock  or  water  over  the  meat;  add  the  bones 
with  any  bones  and  remains  of  cold  roast  beef  or  poultry  that  may  be  at  hand; 
let  it  boil,  skim  carefidly,  and  sinuiier  quickly  until  the  gravy  is  sufficiently 
strong.  Flavoring  vegetables  may  be  stewed  with  it  or  not,  and  a  spoonful  of 
catchup  may  be  added  if  liked.    Time  to  sinuner  the  stock,  al>out  two  hours. 

VEGETABLE  SOUP. 

Take  three  carrots.  I'our  onions,  foiu-  potatoes  and  one  iiint  of  cabbage,  cut 
tine,  and  put  to  stew,  with  just  enough  watei-  to  cover,  until  the  ingredients  are 


48  SOUPS. 

tender;  Uien  fill  up  the  stew-pau  Avith  boiliug  water;  twenty  minutes  before 
serving,  add  one  pint  of  milk,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  two  beaten  e^gs; 
stir  tliick  witli  flour,  add  a  little  yeast-powder,  and  boil  for  a  few  minutes. 

VENISON  SOUP  (BROWN). 

Cut  about  one  and  one  lialf  pounds  of  the  breast  of  venison  into  small  pieces, 
and  stew  them  with  a  small  piece  of  fresh  butter  for  one  half  hour;  turn  them 
about  occasionally,  and  be  careful  tliat  they  do  not  burn.  Mix  one  quart  of  cold 
AViiter  with  one  fourth  of  u  pint  of  the  blood;  pur  the  liciuor  into  a  separate  steAV- 
pan,  and  stir  until  it  boils;  put  the  stew  into  it,  and  add  six  or  eight  black  pep- 
percorns, one  minced  onion  and  the  grated  red  part  of  one  carrot;  then  simmer 
gently  for  from  one  and  one  half  to  two  hours;  sti-ain  the  soup,  and  add  brown 
thickening;  put  the  meat  into  it  again,  make  it  thoroughly  hot,  and  serve. 
When  the  lilood  is  objected  to,  beef  or  mutton  stock  may  be  substituted  for  it 
and  tlie  Avater.  French  beans  cut  into  diamonds,  and  carrots  and  turnips  cut 
into  dice,  may  be  served  Avith  this  soup. 

VERMICELLI  SOUP. 

Take  one  fourth  of  a  pound  of  vermicelli,  break  it,  and  blanch  in  boiling 
AAaler  to  dispel  the  taste  of  dust;  strain,  and  tliroAV  it  into  boiling  broth,  other- 
AA'ise  it  Avould  stick  together,  and  could  not  be  separated  unless  crumbled  into 
a  thousand  pieces.  Remember  that  the  vermicelli  must  be  boiled  in  broth  before 
being  mixed  Avith  puree,  and  take  care  to  break  it  before  blanching.  Sufficient 
for  eight  persons. 

WHITE  SOUP. 

Cut  a  knuckle  of  veal  into  three  or  four  pieces,  one  fourth  pound  of  lean  ham. 
one  large  or  tAA-o  small  onions,  one  half  teaspoonful  of  thyme,  one  half  dozen 
Avhole  cloves  and  a  piece  of  mace;  put  into  a  pot  and  cover  Avith  cold  Avater;  let 
it  boil  until  the  meat  leaves  the  bone;  remove  from  tlie  tire  and  strain  through 
a  sieve;  when  cold,  remove  the  fat  that  comes  to  the  top;  add  to  this  stock  four 
ounces  of  pounded  blanched  almonds;  let  it  boil  sloAvly,  and  half  an  hour  before 
serving,  thicken  it  Avith  one  half  pint  of  SAveet  cream  and  one  Avell-beaten  egg; 
set  it  Avhere  it  Avill  keep  Avarni,  but  not  boil. 


Chapter  V. 


In  selectins'  a  fish,  see  that  the  flesh  is  firm  -when  pressed  by  the  finger, 
and  the  eyes  full.  If  the  fish  is  at  all  stale,  the  flesh  Avill  be  flabby  and  the  eyes 
sunken. 

To  remove  the  earthy  or  muddy  taste,  soak  in  strong  salt-water  a  short  time 
before  cooking. 

To  clean  fish,  lay  it  on  a  board  outdoors,  take  a  dull  knife,  and  holding  the 
fish  by  the  tail,  with  the  knife  held  nearly  flat,  scrape  toward  the  head,  then 
thoroughly  rinse,  and  wipe  dry.  Cut  off  the  head  and  fins  and  remove  the 
entrails.    If  there  are  any  eggs,  coolv  them  with  the  fish. 

Always  coolv  your  fish  the  same  day  you  buy. 

Fresh  mackerel  spoil  quicker  than  almost  any  other. 

To  freshen  salt  fish,  lay  it  skin  side  up,  and  ahvays  in  an  earthen  vessel, 
never  in  tin. 

In  frying  fish,  have  your  lard  very  hot;  lay  in  the  fish,  and  as  soon  as 
browned  on  one  side,  turn  over;  when  that  side  is  brown,  move  the  skillet  to  the 
back  of  the  stove,  cover  closely,  and  let  it  cook  sloAvly.  In  this  way  it  retains 
its  sweetness. 

Garnishes  for  fish  are  sliced  beets,  parsley,  lettuce-leaves  and  hard-boiled 
eggs. 

In  shredding  codfish,  or  otlier  salt  fish,  use  a  small,  three-tined  steel  fork. 

Yon  must  use  plenty  of  lard  in  frying  fish,  never  butter. 

If  you  have  not  a  fish-kettle  in  Avhich  to  boil  fish,  it  must  be  carefully  tied 
up  in  thin  swiss  or  cambric,  to  preserve  the  shape. 

Oysters  are  considered  in  season  only  from  October  1st  until  the  last  of 

March. 

49 


50  OYSTERS    AND   FISH, 

BROWNED  CODFISH.  / 

Soak  salt  codfish  in  cold  water  for  two  days,  cliauging  the  water  frequently; 
dry.  and  cut  into  pieces  for  serving;  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  dip  into  dried 
sifted  bread-crumbs,  into  beaten  egg,  and  into  crumbs  again;  fry  in  deep  fat 
until  a  delicate  brown— about  eight  minutes— and  drain  on  paper.. 

Miss  Marion  L.  Campbell,  Friendly  Inn  Cooking  School,  Cleveland,  Ohio.*  • 

BREAD  STUFFING  FOR  FISH. 

Talce  about  one  half  pound  of  stale  bread  and  soak  in  water,  and  when  soft, 
press  out  the  water;  add  a  very  little  chopped  suet,  pepper  and  salt,  a  large 
tablespoonful  of  minced  and  fried  onion,  and  if  preferred,  a  little  minced  pars- 
ley; cook  a  trifle,  and  after  removing  from  the  fire,  add  a  beaten  egg. 

CHARTREUSE  OF  FISH  A  LA  HAVEAISE. 
Chartreuse  de  Poisson  cl  la  Havraise. 
Take  the  fillets  of  a  sole,  put  them  to  press  until  cool,  then  cut  them  out  with 
a  plain,  round  cutter;  ornament  half  of  them  with  chopped  tarragon,  chervil  or 
parsley,  and  the  remaining  half  with  trutfle,  setting  the  garnish  with  a  little 
liquid  aspic  jelly.  Line  a  mold  with  aspic  jelly,  and  arrange  the  rounds  of  sole 
all  over  it,  as  shown  in  the  engraving;  set  this  with  aspic,  then  fill  up  the  center 


with  the  mixture  below;  put  the  mold  aside  until  this  is  set,  then  dip  the  mold 
into  hot  water,  turn  out  the  form  onto  a  cold  dish.  Serve  for  a  luncheon  or 
second-course  dish.  The  dish  may  be  garnished  with  any  nice. salad,  such  as 
lettuce  or  endive,  mixed  with  a  little  salad-oil,  tarragon,  chilli  vinegar  and 
chopped  tarragon. 

Mixture  for  Chartreuse  of  Fish  a  la  Havraise. — Take  one  half  pint  of 
cleansed,  picked  shrimps,  the  trimmings  from  tlie  sole  cut  into  dice  shapes,  two 
peeled  tomatoes,  four  cooked  artichoke  bottoms  and  twelve  raw  bearded  sauce 
oysters,  all  similarly  cut  up;  add  a  little  tarragon  and  chervil,  mix  with  one  half 
pint  of  liquid  aspic  jelly  and  two  large  tablespoonfuls  of  mayonnaise  sauce, 
stir  all  together  on   ice  until   beginning  to   set,   then   pour   into  the   mold  as 

directed. 

FRIED  FISH. 

The  proper  method  of  frying  fish  is  simply  boiling  in  lard.  French  cooks 
never  use  butter  in  frying,  as  the  color  is  not  good,  but  give  the  preference  to 
beef  fat.  The  great  secret  of  success  is  to  have  the  fat  the  proper  temperature 
before  putting  in  the  fish.  Experienced  cooks  know  just  when  the  boiling-point 
is  reached,  but  for  those  not  so  expert,  a  good  test  is  to  drop  in  a  piece  of  dough 
or  a  bit  of  bread;  if  it  browns  in  a  minute,  the  fat  is  at  the  pi'oper  heat. 


OYSTERS    AND    FISH.  51 

TO  BOIL   FKESII  FISH. 

f'k'an  and  wash  well,  and  tie  up  in  a  cloth;  jtut  it  into  a  Iccttlc  of  boiliiig 
water  with  a  tahlespoouful  of  salt  in  it,  and  boil  it  from  ouo  half  to  three  fourths 
of  an  hour,     'i'lieu  taice 

(i  finely  chopi-ed.  hard-boiled  eggs,         1  teaspoouful  of  salt, 
2  tablesi)oonfnls  of  butter,  %  teaspoonful  of  mustard, 

1  teaspoonful  of  Jtepper, 
The  fish  eggs,  if  any,  and  milk  enough  to  make  a  gravy;  boil  this  mixture,  and 
pour  it  over  the  fish  after  it  is  taken  from  the  bag  and  laid  on  the  platter.    This 
sauce  is  nice  for  any  kind  of  fisli. 

Mrs.  Carrie  Bell,  Eminence,  Kentucky. 

MARINADED  HERRINGS  A   LA  RAVIGOTE. 

Take  some  marinaded  fillets  of  herrings  and  stamp  them  out  with  a  plain 
round  cutter  about  oue  and  one  fourth  inches  in  diameter;  place  tliese  on  a 
plate,  sprinkle  them  Avith  a  little  salad-oil,  and  mask  them  alternately  with 
yolk  and  white  of  hard-boiled  egg  that  has  been  rubbed  through  a  wire  sieve, 
and  finely  chopped,  fresh  green  parsley;  then  arrange  them  on  slices  of  hard- 


boiled  egg  that  are  s])rinkled  with  chopped  French  gherkin;  place  in  the  center 
of  each  a  little  cucumber  salad  cut  in  shreds  and  mixed  with  a  little  oil  and 
salt;  place  -a  little  ball  of  caviar  in  the  center  of  tlie  cucumber,  and  dish  up  on 
small,  fancy  plates,  if  for  hors-d'oeuvre,  allowing  one  to  each  person;  or  if 
required  to  be  served  for  a  savory,  dish  them  on  a  paper. 

TO  DRESS  ALL  KINDS  OF  FISH. 
Dredge  well  Avith  flour,  salt  and  pepper,  fry  brown  in  boiling-hot  lard.  Take 
half  a  pound  of  butter  and  put  into  anotlier  pan,  slice  into  it  ripe  tomatoes  and 
one  small  onion.  When  fried,  add  one  teacupful  of  cream,  half  a  dozen  pounded 
cloves,  a  tablespoonful  of  vinegar  and  a  teacupful  of  mushroom  catchup.  Put 
the  fish  into  this  gravy. 

MACKP^REL. 

Wash  and  soak  the  fish  over  night,  or  six  hours,  and  then  pour  on  boiling 
water  enough  to  covi'r;  let  it  stand  a  minute  or  two  Avithout  boiling,  then  pour 
off  all  the  AA-ater,  and  put  The  fish,  outside  doAvu,  into  a  Avell-buttered  pan;  pour 
on  one  half  of  a  teaspoouful  of  SAveet  cream,  and  a  little  pepper  if  desired;  set 
it  in  the  oven,  and  let  it  broAA'u  a  little,  then  serA^e, 
Mrs.  A.  L.  Marion,  Pennsylvania. 


D-i  OYSTERS   AND   FISH. 

BLACK  BASS,  WITH  SAUCE. 

Clean  a  good-sized  black  bass,  cut  the  tail,  remove  the  siviu  from  both  sides, 
and  sprinlile  a  little  salt  over  it;  melt  in  a  pan  or  deep  pie-plate  a  piece  of  butter 
the  size  of  an  egg.  add  well-chopped  onions  or  sliallots.  put  the  bass  into  it,  cover 
with  a  piece  of  well-buttered  white  paper,  and  bake  for  thirty  minutes  in  a 
moderate  oven;  when  done,  take  the  bass  up  on  a  platter,  taking  care  not  to 
break  it,  and  keep  it  covered  with  the  paper;  mix  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of 
an  egg  and  one  tablespoouful  of  flour,  put  it  into  the  pan  in  which  the  bass  has 
been  cooked,  add  one  half  pint  of  chicken  or  veal  broth,  put  over  a  brisk  tire,  and 
boil  for  five  minutes,  stirring  Avell;  add  a  few  drops  of  lemon-juice  and  a  table- 
spoonful  of  chopped  parsley,  pour  the  sauce  over  the  bass,  season  to  taste,  and 
serve  as  hot  as  possible. 

A.  J.  Pillauet,  Chef  West  Hotel,  Minneapolis,  Minnesota. 

FILLETS  OF  HERRING  A  LA  ROWEN. 

Take  some  croutons  of  fried  bread,  in  lengths  about  three  inches  and  one 
and  one  fourth  inches  wide,  on  each  place  one  of  the  prepared  fillets  of  herring, 
and  garnish  by  means  of  a  forcing-bag  and  small  rose-pipe  with  anchovy  butter, 


aud  little  strips  of  French  gherkin  and  white  of  hard-boiled  egg.  Dish  up  on  a 
paper,  and  garnish  with  yolk  of  hard-boiled  egg  that  has  been  rubbed  through 
a  wire  sieve,  and  small,  red  French  chillies,  and  serve  one  to  each  person  for 
savory  or  hors-d'oeuvre. 

SALT  MACKEREL. 

Soak  one  salt  mackerel  in  cold  water  for  forty-eight  hours,  the  skin  side  up; 

boil  it,  skin  side  down,  until  done;  put  it  into  a  skillet,  aud  cover  with  fresh 

cream  and  one  half  ounce  of  butter,  boil  for  four  minutes,  and  serve  with  a  few 

slices  of  lemon  and  a  little  hashed  parsley  on  top.     Specially  nice  as  a  Lenten 

dish. 

Eugene  Stuyvesant  Howard,  member  of  the  Universal  Cookery  and  Food  Association, 
London,  England,  and  Chef  de  Cuisine,  Louisville  Hotel,  Louisville,  Kentucky. 

FISH  CROQUETTES. 

Pick  into  pieces,  taking  out  all  the  bones,  one  pound  of  any  cold  fish;  heat 
two  ounces  of  butter,  stir  in  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sweet  milk,  thicken  with 
flour;  when  cooked,  add  one  beaten  egg,  the  minced  fish,  pepper,  salt,  a  little 
chopped  parsley  and  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon;  spread  out  to  cool;  form  in 
croquettes,  dip  into  grated  bread-crumbs,  and  fry  in  hot  lard. 


OYSTERS   AND   FISH.  53 

ANCHOVY  BUTTEK. 

Take  three  ounces  of  fresh  butter,  two  yolks  of  hard-boiled  eggs  aud  six  1)()ned 
Christiania  auchovies,  pound  together,  then  rub  through  a  sieve;  add  a  few 
drops  of  liquid  earniine,  the  juice  of  half  a  large  or  one  small  lemon,  mix.  and 
use  cold  for  fish  or  meats. 

SAKDINE  SANDWICHES. 

Take  a  boxful  of  sardines  and  chop  them  fine;  add  two  hard-boiled  eggs, 
chopped,  and  seasoned  with  one  half  teaspoonful  of  French  mustard  and  one 
half  teaspoonful  of  grated  horse-radish;  mix  well,  and  spread  between  thin 
slices  of  buttered  bread  or  cold  biscuits. 

MARINADED  FILLETS  OF  HEIUtINC,  ON  TOAST. 

Filets  <le  HarenrjH  Marines  sur  Croiites. 

Take  a  slice  of  stale,  thin  l)read  and  toast  it;  spread  it  over  with  butter,  and 

then    place    on    it    some   of    the   prepared    fillets    of    herrings,    in    white    wine. 

Sprinkle  over  with  a  little  red  pepper,  then  place  the  toast  on  a  baking-tin, 


and  cover  it  over  with  a  buttered  paper;  place  in  a  moderate  oven,  and  cook  for 
about  five  minutes.  Take  up,  sprinkle  oA^er  a  little  raw  chopped  green  parsley 
and  lobster  coral,  and  cut  it  into  strips  of  about  two  and  one  half  to  three  inches 
long.  Dish  up  on  dish-paper  on  a  hot  dish,  and  serve  at  once  for  breakfast  or  a 
saA  ory. 

TO  BROIL  FISH. 

Any  small  fish  or  the  steaks  of  large  ones  are  nice  broiled.  Prepare  as  for 
frying,  rub  the  bars  of  the  gridiron  Avith  butter,  then  place  in  the  fish,  skin  side 
doAvn;  do  not  turn  until  nearly  done,  and  broil  slowly;  turn  up,  and  lay  in  a 
dish,  Avith  butter,  pepper  and  salt. 

•WHITEFISII   AU  YIN  BLANC   (WITH   WHITE   WINE). 

Scale,  clean  and  AAipe  one  whitefish;  put  butter  and  Avhite  wine  into  a  baking- 
dish;  make  a  deep  incision  doAvn  the  back  of  the  fish,  so  as  to  lay  out  flat;  put 
it  over  the  fire,  and  sprinkle  Avith  the  dressing  two  or  three  times;  scatter 
bread-crumbs  over  it  lightly,  then  put  it  into  the  oven  to  broAvn,  and  serve. 
Fifteen  minutes  suffice  to  cook  the  Avhitefish. 

Louis  Marcbe,  Chef  of  Burnet  House,  Cincinnati,  Oliio. 

SARDINES,   SHADINES,   TUNNY-FISH   AND   SALMON. 

These  are  canned  goods,  all  ready  for  immediate  use;  are  very  nice  for  cold 
lunches,  teas  and  traveling  piu-poses. 


54 


OYSTERS    AND    FISH. 


TO  COOK  CODFISH. 

Cut  the  quantity  you  want  into  large  pieces  and  put  to  soali  in  cold  watei'; 
after  two  or  three  hours,  or  over  night,  it  will  be  softened  so  it  can  be  readily 
picked  into  small  pieces  with  a  forli;  put  it  on  to  cook  in  tepid  water;  when  it 
comes  to  a  boil,  turn  oft",  and  put  on  other  hot  water;  when  done,  stir  into  a 
thickening  made  of  cream  and  tlour;  if  only  millv  cau  be  had,  use  a  piece  of 
butter. 

Christie  Irving. 

LITTLE  FISH  a   LA  WADDINGTON. 
Petites  Poissons  d  la  Waddington. 

Butter  some  little  crayfish-molds  very  lightly,  and  fill  them  by  means  of  a 
forcing-bag  and  plain  pipe  with  fish  farce  prepared  as  below;  knock  the  molds 
on  the  table  so  that  the  mixture  is  well  pressed  to  the  shapes,  and  place  them  in 
a  saute-pan  on  a  piece  of  paper;  cover  them  with  boiling  fish  stock  made  from 
the  bones  of  fish,  or  water,  and  bring  them  to  a  boil;  then  put  the  cover  on  the 
pan,  draw  it  to  the  side  of  the  stove,  and  let  the  little  fisli  poach  for  about 
fifteen  minutes,  taking  care  that  they  do  not  continue  boiling;  when  cooked, 
take  up,  and  when  quite  cold,  turn  them  out  on  a  clean  cloth.  Wash  the  molds, 
and  line  them  very  thinly  Avith  aspic  jelly,  then  ornament  them  with  very  thin 


strips  of  French  chillies,  and  put  little  rounds  of  truffle  to  represent  the  eyes; 
set  this  garnish  wMlx  a  few  drops  of  aspic  jelly,  then  replace  the  cooked  fish,  set 
these  with  aspic  jelly,  and  when  cold,  dip  the  molds  into  hot  water  and  turn  out 
the  fish;  dish  them  up  onto  a  pile  of  finely  chopped  aspic  jelly,  as  in  engraving, 
sprinkle  here  and  there  a  little  lobster  coral  or  red  pepper  and  finely  chopped 
parsley,  and  at  intervals  place  a  little  thick  tartare  sauce;  garnish  the  center 
with  cooked  button  mushrooms  and  trulHes,  if  liked.  This  is  a  nice  and  elegant 
dish  for  a  ball  supper,  etc. 

Farce  for  Little  Fish  a  la  Waddii^gtg]"^.— Take  a  nice  fresh  haddoclc, 
remove  the  skin,  scrape  off  the  meat,  and  pound  it  in  the  mortar  until  smooth; 
then  add  to  it  six  ounces  of  panard,  one  large  tablespoonful  of  thick  bechamel 
sauce  and  one  ounce  of  butter;  pound  all  together  until  quite  smooth,  then  add 
three  whole  eggs,  a  dust  of  red  pepper  and  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  rub  through  a 
fine  wire  sieve;  mix  with  three  tablespoonfuls  of  cream,  and  use  as  directed 
above. 


OYSTERS    AND    FISH. 


FISH  TOAST. 


Pifk  cold  bits  of  fish  to  pieces,  put  into  a  sancepau,  with  two  tal)lcspooiifuls 
of  flour  and  huttin-  each;  mix  well,  and  add  a  pint  of  boiliuj;-  water.  Have  ready 
hot  slices  of  buttered  toast,  pour  the  fish  over,  and  serve. 

LITTLE  CREAMS  OF  FISH,  WITH  WHITE  WINE  SAUCE. 
Pctiles  CrSnies  cle  Poisson  an  Vin  Blanc. 
Lightly  butter  some  little  fish-molds,  and  sprinlde  them  alternately  Avith 
finely  chopped  truffle  and  lobster  coral;  then  with  a  forcing-bas'  and  plain  pipe 
partly  fill  each  with  fish  farce  prepared  as  below;  arrange  this  around  tlie  molds, 
leaving  a  little  well  or  hole  in  the  center  of  each  cream;  this  should  be  made 
with  the  finger,  which  should  be  occasionally  dipped  into  hot  water;  fill  the 
spaces  thus  formed  with  al)out  one  teaspoonful  of  cooked  lobster  and  truffles,  or 
button  mushrooms  cut  into  small  dice;  cover  this  with  a  little  more  of  the  farce, 
and  smooth  over  the  tops  with  a  hot,  wet  knife;  place  the  molds  in  a  saute-pan 
on  a  piece  of  paper;  cover  them  with  boiling  fish  stock,  place  the  pan  on  the 
stove,  and  let  the  liquor  reboil;  then  draw  the  pan  to  the  edge  of  the  stove,  cover 


It,  and  poach  the  creams  for  about  fifteen  minutes;  when  done,  turn  them  out 
on  a  border  of  the  fish  farce  (see  recipe)  or  potato,  and  serve  with  white  wine 
sauce.    Serve  for  a  fish  entree  for  dinner  or  luncheon  while  quite  hot. 

I'ARCE  FOR  LrrTLE  Creams  of  Fish.— I'ree  from  bone  and  skin  ten  ounces 
of  scraped  fresh  haddock,  and  pound  it  until  smooth:  then  pound  eight  ounces 
of  panard;  mix  these,  and  season  with  a  little  pepper,  one  .salt-spoonfiU  of  salt 
and  three  whole  raw  eggs;  mix  all  into  a  smooth  paste,  and  rub  it  through  a 
wire  sieve;  mix  with  it  a  large  tablespoonful  of  cream,  and  use. 

CODFISH  BALLS. 

Take  the  fish  and  potatoes  that  are  left  from  a  meal,  and  a  grated  piece  of 
bread;  mash  well  together  in  a  pan;  season  with  butter,  pepper,  a  little  sage 
and  thyme;  then  moisten  with  sweet  cream  sufficiently  to  mix  it  into  balls; 
roll  it  in  flour,  and  fry  in  boiling  lard  until  very  brown. 
Mrs.  E.  v..  Giddings,  Grand  Rapids,  MichiKan. 

FRIED  TROUT. 

Brook-trout  are  generally  cooked  in  this  way:  Clean,  wash  and  dry  the  fish, 
roll  lightly  in  flour,  and  fry  in  butter  and  lard  mixed.  Let  the  fat  be  hot;  fry 
quickly  to  a  delicate  bi-own,  and  take  up  the  instant  they  are  done.  Serve  in  a 
hot  dish.    Use  no  seasoning  except  salt. 


56 


OYSTERS    AND    FISH. 


HEREIN G  LOAF. 

One  cupful  of  flaked  smoked  herring  from  which  all  bone  and  skin  have 
been  removed.  Ha^'e  ready  two  cupfuls  of  nicely  seasoned  mashed  potatoes. 
Grease  a  mold,  sprinkle  with  dried  bread-crumbs,  put  in  a  layer  of  potatoes  and 
then  of  fish,  and  so  on  until  the  mold  is  fllled,  having  potatoes  on  the  top;  place 
in  a  pan  of  hot  water  in  a  hot  oven.  If  hot  potatoes  were  used,  cook  for  ten 
minutes;  if  cold,  for  thirty  miuiites.  Turn  out  on  a  hot  platter,  and  serve  with 
some  nice  sauce. 

Miss  Marion  L.  Campbell,  Friendly  Inn  Cooking  School,  Cleveland,  Ohio. 

LITTLE  TIMBALS   OF   FISH   A   LA   SULTAN. 

Petites  Tbnhcdes  de  Poisson  ci  la  Sidicoi. 

Jiine  some  momico-molds  thinly  with  aspic  jelly,  and  till  them  with  a  puree 

prepared  as  below;  let  the  mixture  set,  then  dip  tlie  molds  into  hot  water;  turn 

out  the  timbals,  and  ai-range  them  on  an  entree-dish,  surround  them  with  a  salad 

of  lettuce  or  endive  or  small  mixed  salad,  and  till  the  tops  of  the  timbals  with 


crjiyfish  bodies  (in  bottle),  or  a  ragout  of  any  nice  cooked  fish,  such  as  mussels, 
oysters,  shrimps,  pieces  of  cold  salmon,  etc.,  mixed  with  a  little  salad-oil.  tarra- 
gon vinegar,  a  little  finely  chopped  tarragon,  chervil,  shallot  and  mignonette 
Itepper,  and  use  for  l>all  supper  or  second  course. 

PuBEE  FOR  TiJiBAL  A  LA  SuLTAN.— Take  ouc  fourth  pint  of  picked  and  finely 
chopped  shrimps,  two  ounces  of  raAV  dried  haddock  that  has  been  rubbed 
tliiough  a  wire  sieve,  with  four  Avashed  and  boned  anchovies;  mix  these  with 
one  tablespoon  fill  of  thick  mayonnaise  sauce,  one  salt-spoonful  of  English 
mustard  and  the  same  of  French,  one  dessert-spoonful  of  tarragon  vinegar,  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  thiclv  cream,  one  tablespoouful  of  salad-oil  and  one  ounce  of 
cho]iped  lax;  stir  together,  add  one  half  pint  of  cool  aspic  jelly,  then  pass 
through  the  tamniy  or  tine  hair-sieve,  and  use  when  beginning  to  set. 


EELS. 

When  eels  are  good,  they  have  a  glossy,  bright  appearance  on  the  back  and  a 
brilliant  white  underneath.  Clean  them  nicely,  take  out  the  entrails,  skin,  and 
cut  off  their  heads  and  tails,  cut  them  up  into  pieces  ns  long  as  your  finger.  For 
boiling,  flour  them  and  cook  AA'ith  parsley  until  tender,  in  salt-water.  For  bak- 
ing, dip  them  into  bread-crumbs  seasoned  with  butter  and  herbs. 


OYSTERS   AND   FISH.  57 

LITTLE   FISH   A   LA    ST.  PIERKE. 

Petites  Poisson.s  (1  la  St.  Pierre.  ^ 

Tnke  one  larpe  fish-rnold  and  some  small  tish-molds,  line  them  thinly  with 
aspic  jelly,  ornament  them  with  cut  trnftle  to  represent  the  eyes,  and  gold  and 
silver  leaf  that  is  mixed  with  a  little  liquid  aspic  for  the  bodies,  and  mask  the 
fins  with  red-colored  jelly;  set  all  with  jelly,  and  then  line  the  molds  with  may- 
onnaise aspic,  using-  the  part  colored  red  in  one  fish,  and  the  white  in  another, 


and  po  on  until  all  the  molds  are  lined:  when  this  is  set,  place  in  tlie  centers  of 
the  molds  any  nice  pieces  of  cooked  fisli,  such  as  salmon,  lobster,  or  any  wliite 
tisli,  and  a  few  picked  leaves  of  tarragon  and  chervil;  fill  the  molds  with  con- 
somme that  has  been  made  to  set  with  a  little  gelatin,  and  use  when  cooling; 
when  the  mixture  is  set,  dip  the  molds  into  hot  water,  turn  out  the  fish,  and  dish 
them  up  on  a  bed  of  chopped  pale-green-colored  aspic  made  by  adding  a  few 
drops  of  sap-green  to  ordinary  aspic,  and  garnish  with  thick  mayonnaise  sauce, 
by  means  of  a  bag  and  a  large  rose  pipe, °and  with  bunches  of  Frencli  capers, 
raw  cucumber  and  cooked  beet-root,  cut  into  rounds  with  a  pea-cutter,  separately 
mixed  with  a  little  salad-oil,  tarragon  vinegar  and  a  little  chopped  tarragon; 
ariange  these  here  and  there  in  little  groups,  and  serve  for  a  cold  collation  or  for 
a  ball  supper. 

MAEINADED  HERRING  A   LA   CONN  AUGHT. 

Harengs  Marines  (1  la  Connaitght. 

Take  some  hard-boiled  eggs,  and  cut  them  into  slices  lengthwise  about  one 

fom-tli  of  an  inch  thick,  season  with  a  dust  of  ])epi)er,  a  little  salad-oil,  chopped 

tarragon,  chervil  and  shallot;  then  place  on  each  slice  a  stamped-out  round  of 

marinaded  fillets  of  herrings,  and  on  the  top  of  the  fillets  place  two  pieces  of 


plainly  cooked  prawn  or  prepared  crayfish  (in  bottles);  garnish  each  of  the  tops 
with  a  few  French  capers,  and  dish  them  up  on  little  round  slices  of  raw 
tomato  that  have  been  seasoned  similarly  to  the  eggs.  If  these  are  to  be  used 
as  a  s.avory,  arrange  thein  on  a  dish,  as  iu  engraving.  If  for  a  hors-d'oeuvre, 
dish  them  on  small  plates,  allowing  one  to  each  person. 


58  OYSTEES    AND    FISH. 

FEIED  SMELTS. 

Wash  them,  cut  off  the  tius,  and  dry  with  a  cloth;  melt  a  tablespoouful  of 
butter,  and  pour  it  into  two  N^ell-beateu  eggs;  salt  and  tlour  the  smelts,  dip  into 
the  eggs,  roll  them  in  cracker-crumbs  or  grated  bread,  and  fry  in  hot  lard  and 
butter  mixed  until  they  are  a  rich  brown. 

FILLETS   OF  HEERIKG  A   LA  BEEMONT. 

Filets  de  Hareng  JMarines  (l  la  Brcniont. 
Cut  in  two  some  marinaded  fillets  of  herring,  in  white  Aviue;  prepare  some 
croutons,  as  below,  allowing  one  to  each  person,  place  the  fillets  of  herring  on 
tliem,  and  garnish  each  straight  down  with  shreds  of  I'^rench  red  chillies,  French 
gherldns  and  white  of  hard-boiled  egg,  arranging  a  line  of  egg  butter  (see  below) 
each  side  by  means  of  a  bag  and  small  rose-pipe.  For  the  crouton,  cut  strips  of 
stale  bread  two  and  one  half  inches  long  by  one  wide;  mal^e  little  incisions  in 
the  center  of  each,  and  fry  in  boiling  fat  until  a  golden  brown;  drain,  and  scoop 
out  the  center  where  the  incisions  were  made,  and  till  the  hollow  with  egg 
butter,  and  finish  as  above. 


Egg  Butter.— Pound  together  the  yolks  of  three  hard-boiled  eggs,  three 
ounces  of  butter,  four  fillets  of  Christiania  anchovies,  a  dust  of  pepper  and  a 
salt-spoonful  of  French  mustard,  rub  it  all  through  a  fine  hair-sieve,  and  use. 

FILLETS  OF  BASS  A  LA  CAEDINALE. 
Bone  a  bass  of  about  four  pounds,  skin  it  well,  cut  into  eight  equal  nieces 
lengthwise,  trying  as  much  as  possible  to  give  them  the  shape  of  a  cutlet  or 
fillets,  put  aside;  take  tlie  trimmings  (not  the  bones),  pound  well  in  a  mortar, 
season  with  salt,  pepper  and  nutmeg,  put  in  one  whole  egg  and  one  ounce  of 
good,  fresh  butter.  Boil  one  half  cupful  of  fresh  bread-crumbs  in  one  half  cup- 
ful of  milk,  stir  with  a  wooden  spoon  for  about  five  minutes  over  a  hot  fire,  so 
as  to  make  a  solid  paste;  remove  from  the  fire  and  let  cool  off.  When  cool 
enough,  mix  this  paste  with  the  forcemeat  in  your  mortar,  and  when  well 
mixed,  put  through  a  fine  sieve.  IMask  or  cover  one  side  of  the  cutlets  with  a 
thin  layer  of  this  forcemeat;  take  what  is  left  over  and  roll  it  on  a  table  on 
Avhich  you  have  sprinkled  a  little  flour.  Try  to  make  a  ring  large  enough  to 
fit  in  the  dish  on  which  you  intend  to  serve  your  fish.  If  the  dish  is  oval,  make 
the  ring  oval.  Butter  a  piece  of  paper,  and  lay  the  ring  on  it,  put  the  whole 
on  a  flat  pan.  flatten  the  ring  all  around  the  top.  so  as  to  be  able  to  set  the 
fillets  on.  This  ring  is  called  bordure.  Cover  with  another  well-buttered  paper 
and  put  away  in  a  cool  place.  (There  are  special  bordure-molds.  and  if  you 
should  have  one,  put  your  forcemeat  into  it,  after  having  well  buttered  all 
around  and  on  the  bottom.)    But  the  bones  of  your  bass  into  a  saucepan,  season 


OYSTERS    AND    FISH.  59 

Willi  salt,  ix'ppor,  one  bny-lcaf,  a  little  thyme,  one  half  of  au  onion,  two  slices 
of  carrot,  a  little  parsley,  our  half  of  a  glassful  of  dry  white  wine,  two  glassfuls 
of  cold  water.  Let  this  boil  slowly  for  twenty-live  minutes.  Put  twa-ounces  of 
butler  and  one  tablespoonful  of  flour  into  a  small  saucepan,  and  cook  for  ten 
minutes,  stirring  continually  with  a  wooden  spoon;  add  your  fish  broth  after 
liaving  strained  it,  let  this  sauce  cook  for  twenty  minutes,  and  skim  it  well. 
This  sauce  must  be  very  smooth.  Keep  hot  without  letting  boil.  Have  one  half 
of  a  pound  of  shelled  shrimps,  and  put  into  a  saucepan  of  cold  water,  and  as 
soon  as  the  latter  boil.s,  take  off  tlu>  tire,  and  cool  the  shrimps  off  by  letting  cold 
water  run  over  them.  When  thoroughly  cooled  off,  strain,  cut  each  shrimp  into 
two  or  three  equal  pieces,  according  to  their  size,  put  them  into  the  sauce.  Take 
the  coral  of  a  boiled  lobster,  chop  very  line,  sprinkle  some  of  it  over  your  fillets 
which  have  been  covered  with  a  layer  of  forcemeat,  so  as  to 'give  a  nice  red 
color.  Put  these  fillets  into  a  Hat  saucepan,  called  sauteuse;  after  having 
buttered  the  bottom  of  it  well,  add  four  tablespooufuls  of  your  fish  broth,  if 
you  have  any  left;  if  not,  one  half  a  glassful  of  white  wine  mixed  with  a  little 
water  will  do;  cover  with  well-buttered  paper.  I*ound  the  rest  of  your  coral 
with  one  ounce  of  good  butter,  pass  througli  a  line  sieve;  add  this  to  your  sauce, 
with  one  tablesjjoonful  of  good  sherry  and  one  tablespoonful  of  wliipped  cream, 
so  as  to  make  the  sauce  as  light  as  possible;  tliis  sauce  should  have  a  pretty 
pink  color.  Twenty  minutes  before  serving,  cook  your  bordure  in  a  mild  oven; 
ten  to  fifteen  minutes  will  do;  touch  tlie  top,  and  if  the  forcemeat  resists,  the 
bordure  Is  cooked;  keep  it  warm.  Ten  minutes  before  sending  the  soup  to  the 
table,  put  your  fillets  over  the  fire,  and  let  them  simmer  about  ten  or  fifteen 
minutes.  Let  the  bordure  slide  on  your  dish,  being  careful  not  to  break  it;  put 
your  fillets  on  it,  all  around  the  top,  wreath-like,  and  put  the  sauce  in  the  center 
without  putting  any  on  the  fillets;  serve  very  hot.  Th(>  fillets  of  bass  a  la 
cardinale  is  one  of  the  ricliest  fish  dishes  gotten  up,  and  has  two  qualities, 
which  are  to  please  the  eye  and  palate  at  the  same  time. 

Paul  Resal,  Chef  of  Wbite  House  (Executive  Mansion),  Washington,  D.  C. 

FISH  SAUCE. 

Chop  fine  six  hard-boiled  eggs,  and  stir  in  two  cupfuls  of  draAvn  butter.  Let 
sinmier,  and  add  one  tal)lespoonful  of  pepper-sauce,  two  of  minced  parsley,  with 
a  little  thyme  and  salt.     Pour  over  boiled  fisli. 

ESCALLOPS  OF  SALMON  MUEILLO. 

Remove  two  escallops  from  a  salmon,  pare  neatly,  and  season  with  pepper 
and  salt;  saute  them  in  butter,  adding  a  little  white  wine;  glide  the  pan  into  the 
o\('n,  and  allow  tliem  to  cook  for  five  minutes  with  the  cover  on;  Avlien  done, 
breadcrumb  them.  r]ng]ish  style  and  lay  the  escallops  in  a  little  clarified  butter 
and  let  them  attain  a  fiiie  golden  color,  then  drain  on  a  cloth.  Prepare  a  good 
Colbert  sauce,  spread  it  on  the  bottom  of  a  dish,  and  place  the  escallops  over; 
garnish  with  small,  fresh  tomatoes  stuffed  Avith  prepared  crab-meat,  also  a  small 
cliister  of  cooked  potatoes,  scooped  out  with  a  spoon,  and  two  slices  of  lemon 
dipped  in  chopped  parsley;  serve  very  hot. 

A.  Gallier.  President  "Soeiete  Cnllnaire  do  New  York,"  and  Clief   of  Hotel   Bruns- 
wiek,  Fifth  Avenue,  New  York, 


60  OYSTERS   AND   FISH, 

SOLE  AND  SMELTS,  FKIED. 
Soie  et  Eperlans  Frits. 
Kemove^tlie  skin  aud  fius  from  a  nice  fresh  sole,  wash  it  -oell  in  cold  salt- 
water, dry  it  in  a  clean  clotli,  flour  It  well,  then  dip  into  whole  beaten  raw  egg, 
and  fry  in  clean  boiling  fat  or  lard  for  ton  to  twelve  minutes,  Avhen  it  should  be 
a  nice  golden  color;  take  up  with  a  slice  and  drain  on  a  rack,  dish  up^  on  a 


dish-paper,  garnish  \\\t\\  smelt  prepared  as  beloAV,  and  serve  Avith  any  nice  sauce 
for  dinner  or  luncheon.  It  can  be  served  without  sauce  as  a  breakfast  dish,  or 
can  be  eaten  cold,  if  fried  in  oil. 

Smelts  for  Gaenish.— Eeniove  the  fins  from  some  nice  fresh  smelts,  but  do 
not  wash  them;  dry  them  on  a  cloth,  flour  and  egg  them  in  the  same  manner 
as  the  sole,  and  fry  them  in  clean  boiling  fat  for  six  to  eight  minutes,  until  a 
nice  golden  color;  drain,  and  use  as  directed. 

FILLETS  OF  SOLE  A   LA   PYRENEENNE. 

Filets  de  Sole  ct  la  Pyreneenne. 

Take  the  fillets  from  the  sole,  and  if  they  are  large,  cut  them  in  two  pieces, 

bat  them  out  with  a  wet  chopping-knife,  and  season  the  skin  side  with  red 

pepper  and  salt  and  a  little  lemon-juice;  cut  some  raw  potatoes  in  the  shape  of 


corks  such  as  are  used  in  a  pint  bottle,  then  roll  a  fillet  around  each;  cut  some 
strips  of  foolscap  paper,  butter  them,  and  in  each  piece  roll  a  fillet  of  sole;  tie 
up  with  a  string,  and  put  into  a  stew-pan.  with  the  juice  of  one  lemon  and  three 
fourths  of  a  pint  of  fish  stock,  or  two  Avine-glassfuls  of  white  wine,  and  one  half 
pint  of  water;  put  the  cover  on  the  pan,  and  stand  it  in  a  moderate  oven;  cook 


OYSTERS    AND    FISH.  61 

for  lUtt't'ii  iniiuitcs,  tlu>n  l.-iko  ni),  ;ui(l  let  the  lillcts  cool  in  tlio  li<iuor;  remove 
tlie  paper,  press  out  the  potato  earefully,  and  by  uieans  of  a  forcing-bag  and 
plain  pipe  till  up  the  space  formed  by  it  ^Yith  a  ragout  prepared  as  below;  when 
this  is  set,  mask  the  fillets  over  the  Pyreneenne  sauce  (see  below),  and  then 
glaze  this  over  with  a  little  aspic  jelly,  which  should  be  partly  set;  dish  up  the 
fillets  on  a  border  of  aspic  jelly,  and  serve  with  a  salad  of  lettuce  or  raw  cucum- 
bei-  or  cooked  salsifies  in  Ihe  center;  garnish  the  sides,  as  iu  engraving,  with 
croutons  which  have  been  pre])ared  as  follows:  Cut  some  bread  into  kite-shapes, 
and  fry  them  a  pale  golden  color  in  clean  boiling  fat;  when  cool,  garnish  with 
little  bunches  of  caviar  about  the  size  of  a  small  blackberry,  and  between  each 
of  these  sprinkle  a  little  red  pepper;  arrange  little  bunches  of  chopped  aspic 
jelly  around  the  base  of  the  dish,  and  serve  as  dressed  fish,  entree,  for  second 
course,  or  any  cold  collation. 

liAcouT  FOR  Center  of  Sole  a  LxV  Pyreneenne. — Mix  two  ounces  of  chopped 
cooked  lobster  or  shrimps,  three  boned  and  chopped  Christiania  anchovies,  one 
salt-spoonful  of  French  mustard,  the  same  of  mixed  English  mustard,  six  or 
eight  drops  of  lemon-juice,  one  teaspoonful  of  chopped  tarragon  and  chervil 
and  one  tablespoonful  of  thick  mayonnaise  sauce,  with  one  gill  of  liquid  aspic 
jelly;  add  a  little  li(iuid  carmine,  to  make  it  a  pretty  salmon  color,  stir  on  ice 
until  set,  then  put  into  a  forcing-bag  with  a  plain  pipe,  and  use. 

I'yreneenne  Sauce.— Fry  together  one  and  one  half  ounces  of  butter  and 
the  same  amount  of  flour,  without  discoloring;  reduce  by  boiling  the  liquor 
from  the  sole  to  one  and  one  lialf  gills;  then  mix  it  Avith  the  fried  l)utter  and 
Hour,  stir  until  it  boils,  then  n)ix  with  one  half  pint  of  aspic  jelly,  half  a  gill 
of  thick  cream  and  a  few  drops  of  liquid  carmine;  reduce  to  half  the  quantity, 
keeping  it  skimmed  while  boiling,  then  tammy,  and  use  when  cooling.  This 
sauce  is  nice  for  masking  any  cold  fish. 

FISH  CAKES. 

Take  cold  boiled  cod,«either  fresh  or  salt;  add  two  thirds  as  much  hot  mashed 
potatoes  as  fish,  a  little  butter,  tAvo  or  three  well-beaten  eggs  and  enough  milk 
to  juake  a  smooth  paste;  season  with  pepper;  make  into  nice  round  cakes,  and 
fry  l)roAA'n  in  sweet  beef  drippings  or  very  clear,  SAveet  lard. 

FLOUNDER  DE  LA  CREME  BLANC. 

1  tAA'o-pound  flounder,  i/4  teasi)oonful  of  salt, 

1/^  pint  of  milk,  1  bay-leaf, 

IM;  tal)lespoonfuls  of  butter,        1  blade  of  mace, 

1  tablespoonful  of  flour,  A  speck  of  pepper, 

1  tablespoonful  of  cream,  y,  teaspoonful  of  lemon-juice. 

Remove  the  skin  from  both  sides  of  the  flounder,  then  tillet  it  carefully;  cut 
the  fillets  in  half  lengtlnvise,  roll  them  up,  and  fasten  Avith  Avooden  toothpicks 
or  tie  them;  Avash  the  bones,  break  them,  and  put  them  into  a  saucepan,  Avith 
the  milk,  bay-leaf  and  mace,  and  cook  gently  for  one  half  hour;  strain  the  milk 
into  a  clean  saucepan,  put  in  the  fiUets  (making  them  stand  up),  and  sinnuev 
gently  for  ten  minutes;  take  out  the  fillets  carefully,  remove  the  string  or  tooth- 
picks, arrange  them  on  a  hot  dish,  and  keep  them  hot  until  required.     Make  a 


62 


OYSTERS    AND    FISH. 


sauce  by  melting  the  butter  in  a  saucepan,  adding  flouv,  and  the  milk  the  fillets 
were  cooked  in,  letting  it  boil'  a  few  minutes,  stirring  all  the  time,  adding  salt, 
pepper  and  lemon-juice;  pour  the  sauce  around  the  fillets,  and  garnish  with 
parsley  and  thin  slices  of  lemon. 

Miss  Amabel  G.  E.  Hope,  Teacher  of  Cookery,  Boston  School  Kitchen  No.  1,  Boston. 

HALIBUT,  SMOKED  AND  DRIED. 

This  is  a  very  nice  relish  for  tea  In  hot  weather.  It  is  usuallj^  sliced  or 
shredded  in  long  strips,  and  arranged  nicely  on  a  platter;  the  dried  or  salt-cured 
halibut  is  sometimes  heated  upon  the  gridiron,  but  it  is  usually  eaten  uncooked. 

FEIED  FROGS. 

Skin  well,  and  cook  for  five  minutes  in  salted  water,  the  hind  legs  only;  then 
throw  into  cold  water  to  cool,  and  drain;  fry  in  hot  fat,  and  serve  garnished 
with  parsley. 

SHRIMPS  FOR  FLAVORING  FISH  SOUPS. 

Shrimps  pounded  to  a  paste  and  pressed  through  a  sieve  may  be  added  to 
almost  all  kinds  of  fish  soup,  and  \^'ill  greatly  improve  the  flavor.  Shrimp 
butter,  to  answer  the  same  purpose,  may  be  made  of  the  shells  of  shrimps. 

LITTLE   BOMBS  OF   OYSTERS   A   LA   VERSAILLES. 

Petites  Bomhes  cVHiutres  (l  la  Versailles. 
Line  some  little  bomb-molds  tliinly  Avith  aspic  jelly,  and  garnish  them  at  the 
tops  with  cut  truffle;  set  this  with  aspic  jelly  and  reline  the  molds  with  aspic 
cream;  let  this  set,  then  fill  up  with  a  puree  of  oj'sters  prepared  as  below,  and 


put  the  molds  aside  on  ice  until  the  contents  are  set;  dip  each  mold  into  hot 
water,  and  turn  out  the  bombs  onto  an  entree  or  flat  dish,  garnish  Avith  a  little 
finely  chopped  aspic  jelly,  and  serve  for  an  entree  for  dinner  or  luncheon,  or  auj^ 
cold  service. 

Puree  of  Oysters.— For  six  to  eight  molds,  take  one  and  one  half  dozen 
bearded  sauce  oysters  and  pound  them  until  smooth,  Avith  four  Avell- washed  and 
boned  anchovies;  take  one  and  one  half  gills  of  the  oyster  liquor,  strain  it,  and 
mix  Avith  it  one  fourth  of  a  pint  of  good-flavored  light  stock  in  which  one  fourth 
of  an  ounce  of  gelatin  has  been  dissolved,  one  wine-glassful  of  sherry,  the  juice 
of  a  lemon,  a  dust  of  pepper,  oue  teaspoonful  of  beef  extract;  mix  these,  then 
rub  the  AAiiole  through  a  clean,  slightly  AA^armed  tammy-cloth;  add  oue  fourth 
of  a  pint  of  stiffly  Avhipped  cream,  and  use. 


OYSTERS    AND    FISH. 


63 


OYSTEll  rOT-PlE. 

Have  roady  nico,  lijihtly  raist-d  biscuit-dough  cut  into  small  s<iuares;  season 
tlie  oysters  well  with  butter,  pepi-er  and  salt,  and  thicken  the  li(iuor  with  a  little 
flour;  place  all  in  a  pudding-dish,  and  cover  over  the  top  with  a  layer  of  dough; 
bake  halt  an  hour. 

OYSTERS  A  LA  DUMAS. 
Huitres  <%  la  Dumas. 
Take  some  nice,  fresh,  raw  bearded  oysters,  and  season  them  with  a  little 
cayenne  pepper  and  lemon-juice.  Peel,  wash,  and  remove  the  stalks  from  some 
open,  fresh  mushrooms  (which,  if  large,  should  be  cut  into  pieces),  and  then  dry 
them  in  a  clean  cloth;  season  them  ^^ith  pepper,  salt  and  chopped  parsley,  and 
put  them  into  a  buttered  saute-pan,  with  the  liquor  from  tlie  oysters;  place  tlie 
cover  on  the  pan,  and  coolv  them  in  a  moderate  oven  for  about  twelve  minutes; 
fi'y  until  crisp  some  tliin  slices  of  bacon  in  a  little  lard  or  bacon-fat.  Arrange  the 
oysters,  mushroooms  and  bacon  alternately  on  skewers,  press  the  three  well 
together,  and  then  place  them  in  a  small  piece  of  pork-caul;  sprinkle  with  fine 


flour,  dip  into  well-beaten  egg,  and  fry  in  clean  boiling  fat  until  a  pretty  golden 
color;  remove  each  skewer,  and  dish  up  on  a  dish-pajter  or  napkin,  as  in  the 
engraving,  upon  a  bed  of  crisply  fried  parsley.  Have  the  sauce,  as  below, 
handed  in  a  sauce-boat.  This  dish  can  be  served  for  breakfast,  luncheon  or  for 
second  course,  and  should  always  be  served  very  hot. 

Sauce  for  Oysters  a  la  Dumas.— Take  the  liquor  from  the  mushrooms  and 
that  remaining  from  the  oysters,  and  mix  them  with  a  tablespoonful  of  brown 
sauce,  a  dust  of  pepper,  the  strained  juice  of  one  lemon  and  a  few  drops  of 
carmine;  boil  up,  tammy,  and  serve  hot  in  a  sauce-boat. 


SCAIJ.OPED   OYSTERS. 

Koll  fine  one  quart  of  crackers.  Grease  a  pan  or  dish  as  for  a  cake,  put  in  a 
layer  of  cracker-cruuibs;  pour  off  the  liquor  from  the  oysters,  and  add  to  it  fresh 
milk,  twice  or  three  times  its  quantity;  moisten  the  crumbs  with  this,  and  put 
over  them  a  layer  of  oysters,  season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  bits  of  butter; 
alternate  the  layers  of  crackers  and  oysters,  with  their  respective  seasonings, 
and  let  the  top  layer  be  of  crumbs  with  bits  of  butter  over  it.  Beat  up  an  egg, 
add  to  it  one  half  pint  of  milk,  or  if  any  liquid  remains,  use  that,  pour  this  over 
all;  bake  from  one  half  to  three  fourths  of  an  hour;  cook  with  a  lid  over  it  for 
the  first  half  hour,  then  uncover,  and  brown  to  a  desired  shade. 
Mrs.  M.  A.  Townsley,  CedarviUe,  Missouri. 


64 


OYSTERS    AND   FISH. 


OLIVES  A   LzV   BELLK  EUGENIE. 

Olives  d  la  Belle  Eugenie. 
Line  some  little  fluted  timbal-malds  about  one  eighth  of  an  inch  thick  with 
aspic  jelly  that  is  colored  to  an  olive  shade  with  sap-green,  and  when  this  is  set, 
garnish  the  molds  at  the  bottom  in  the  form  of  a  star,  with  the  white  of  hard- 
boiled  egg  cut  into  little  diamond  shapes,  garnish  the  sides  of  the  molds  with 
the  same,  and  set  Avith  a  little  more  aspic;  talce  some  olives,  farced  with 
anchovies  or  truffle  (those  kept  in  bottles  do  admirably  for  the  purpose),  and 
place  one  in  each  of  the  prepared  molds,  then  fill  up  with  a  little  more  aspic  and 
put  them  in  a  cool  place  until  set;  take  some  little  fancy  square  paper  cases,  and 
put  into  each  about  one  dessert-spoonful  of  the  yolk  of  hard-boiled  egg  that  has 
been  rubbed  through  a  Avire  sieve;  dip  the  little  timbal-molds  into  hot  water, 
pass  a  cloth  over  the  bottoms  to  absorb  any  moisture,  and  then  turn  out,  and 


place  one  in  the  center  of  each  of  the  paper  cases;  rub  some  w^hiteof  hard-boiled 
egg  through  a  sieve,  and  then  arrange  it  and  some  of  the  prepared  yolk  around 
the  olives  to  form  a  border;  roll  some  caviar  into  little  balls  about  the  size  of 
half  a  small  Spanish  nut,  prepare  some  Montpelier  butter  and  anchovy  butter 
(see  beloAv),  and  put  them  into  separate  forcing-bags  Avith  small  rose-pipes;  then 
arrange  these  three  garnishes  alternately  on  the  egg,  but  leave  a  little  space 
betAveen  each,  so  that  egg  can  also  be  seen.  Dish  up  on  little  glass  plates,  on 
each  of  which  is  put  a  fancy  dish-paper,  and  serve  to  each  person  for  a  hors- 
d'oeuvre  or  for  a  savory.  If  for  the  latter,  arrange  all  on  one  dish.  These  tim- 
bals  are  also  very  pretty  for  a  ball  supper,  etc. 

Anchovy  Butter.— Take  three  ounces  of  fresh  butter,  two  yolks  of  hard- 
boiled  eggs  and  six  boned  Christiania  anchovies;  pound  together,  then  rub 
through  a  sieve,  and  add  a  few  drops  of  liquid  carmine,  the  juice  of  half  of  a 
large  or  one  small  lemon;  mix  all,  and  use. 


OYSTER  PIE. 

1  quart  of  oysters,  including  the  liquor,  1  lablespoonful  of  butter, 

1  cupful  of  milk,  or  Vu  teaspoonful  of  salt, 

1/2  cupful  of  sweet  cream,  V2  teaspoonful  of  pepper. 

I'ut  into  a  deep  pan  or  pudding-dish,  and  cover  with  a  crust  made  of 
1  quart  of  flour,  A  pinch  of  salt, 

1  tablespoonful  of  lard.  Water  or  milk  enough  to  make  a 

1  teaspoonful  of  baking-poAvder,  batter  to  roll. 

Bake  twenty  minutes  Avith  a  hot  fire. 
Mrs.  F.  A.  K.,  Dayton,  Oliio. 


OYSTERS    AND    FISH.  65 

FRIED  OVSTKKS. 

Select  oysters,  A  little  salt,  a  dash  of  red  pepper, 

(!  yolks  of  eggs.  Flour,  craeker-dust, 

2  tablespooiifuls  of  SAveet-oil,  Sifted,  crushed  bread-crumbs. 

Have  three  soup-plates  ready,  one  containiug  tiour,  oue  cracker-dust  and  one 
witli  the  sifted  bread-crumbs  (chapelure);  the  fourth  contains  the  yolks,  the 
oil  and  seasoning,  as  indicated,  Avell  mixed.  Dry  the  oysters  on  a  clean  towel, 
pass  one  by  one  through  the  tlour.  then  through  the  egg  mixture,  then  the 
cracker-dust;  return  it  again  to  the  egg  mixture,  and  pass  tlu-ough  the  bread- 
crumbs, pressing  the  oysters  lightly.  If  convenient,  do  not  fry  the  oysters  at 
once,  but  let  them  remain  for  an  hour  or  so;  then  fry  tliem  in  clear,  hot  lard 
until  straw  yellow.  This  will  appear  a  little  complicated  to  a  private  house 
cook,  but  one  trial  will  convince  the  cook  that  it  is  time  and  patience  well 
rewarded.  It  re(piires  a  little  extra  trouble  to  produce  this  excellent  dish,  but 
it  i-ays  well. 

Eugene  Stuyvesant  Howard,  of  Universal  Cookery  and  Food  Association. 

DEVILED  CLAMS. 

Chop  tifty  clams  very  fine;  take  two  tomatoes,  one  onion  chopped  equally 
line,  a  little  parsley,  thyme  and  sw^et  marjoram,  a  little  salt,  pepper  and  bread- 
crumbs, adding  the  Juice  of  the  clams  until  the  mixtiu'e  is  of  the  consistency  of 
sausage;  put  it  into  the  shells,  Avith  a  lump  of  butter  on  eacli,  cover  with  bread- 
crumbs, and  bake  half  an  hour. 

CLAM  CHOWDER. 

2.5  clams,  cliopped  fine.  The  clam-juice, 

6  pot.atoes,  chopped  tine,  1  pint  of  milk, 

2  small  onions,  chopped  fine,  1  pint  of  water, 

A  piece  of  salt  pork,  also  chopped,        C  crac^kers,  rolled. 
Butter  about  the  size  of  an  egg,  1  nutmeg,  grated. 

Salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  1  teaspoonful  of  celery-seed. 

Boil  these  slowly  for  at  least  four  hours,  adding  water  if  it  should  become 
too  thick;  half  an  hour  before  the  time  of  serving,  add  to  it  a  coffee-cupful  of 
tomato  catchup  and  two  tablespooufuls  of  Worcestershire  sauce;  Avhen  ready 
for  the  table,  cut  a  lemon  into  slices,  and  serve  with  it. 

CLAM   CHOAVDER   (CONEY   ISLAND   STYLE). 

Put  into  a  saucepan  four  good-sized  raw  potatoes,  cut  into  small  squares, 
cover  them  witli  oue  gallon  of  white  broth,  add  one  small  ham-bone  and  one 
finely  chopped  onion;  let  it  simmer  until  the  potatoes  are  fully  done,  remove 
tlie  ham-bone,  add  one  tin  of  tomatoes  and  the  juice  of  two  tins  of  clams;  chop 
the  clams,  put  into  a  pot,  add  one  teaspoonful  of  thyme,  and  salt  and  pepper; 
serve  with  a  handful  of  broken  crackers  and  a  little  finely  hashed  parsley. 

Eugene  Stuvvesant  Howard,  member  of  the  Universal  Cookery  and  Food  Association, 

London,  England,  and  Clief  de  Cuisine,  Louisville  Hotel,  Louisville,  Kentucky. 
3 


bb  OYSTERS    AND    FISH, 

LOBSTER  A   LA   CANNES. 

Hojnard  Ci  la  Cannes. 

Take  some  cold,  heart-sihaped  croutons,  aud  with  a  forcing-bag  and  rose-pipe 

maslc  them  over  with  lobster  puree  (see  below),  and  ornament,  as  sliown  in  the 

engraving,  with  little  balls  of  caviar  and  Thinly  cut  slices  of  scalloped  cucumber; 

take  one  fourth  of  a  pound  of  fresh  butter,  and  work  it  in  a  basin  with  a  wooden 


spoon  until  quite  smooth;  then  make  it  into  a  border,  using  for  the  purpose  a 
large  bag  with  a  large  rose-pipe,  and  sprinli;le  over  it  some  crisp,  finely  shredded 
lettuce;  dish  up  the  croutons  on  the  border,  and  serve  for  a  savory  or  second- 
course  dish  or  for  a  cold  collation. 

Puree  for  Lobster  a  la  Caistnes.— Take  the  meat  from  a  freshly  cooked 
hen  lobster,  pound  it  until  quite  smooth,  then  mix  with  it  a  teaspoonful  of 
French  mustard,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  mixed  English  jnustard,  a  dust  of  red 
pepper,  a  teaspoonful  of  essence  of  anchovy  and  a  teaspoonful  of  tarragon 
vinegar,  color  Avith  a  few  drops  of  carmine,  add  two  ounces  of  fresh  butter;  mix 
all  in  the  mortar,  then  rub  through  a  fine  hair-sieve,  and  use. 

SALAD   OF  LOBSTER  A    LA   RUSSE. 
Salade  de  Homard  il  la  Jiusse. 
Line  some  little  fancy  jelly-molds  thinly  Avith  strong  aspic  jelly,  and  ornament 
the  top  of  each  with  a  little  mayonnaise  aspic,  using  a  forcing-bag  and  pipe  for 


the  purpose;  arrange  around  this  some  French  capers  and  little  picked  leaves  of 
chervil,  and  fill  up  the  molds  with  cooked  lobster  that  is  citt  into  little  dice 
shapes,  a  little  cut  French  gherkin  and  aspic  jelly;  leave  until  set,  then  dip  each 
mold  into  hot  water;  pass  a  clean  cloth  over  the  bottoms  to  absorb  any  moisture, 


OYSTERS    AND    FISH. 


67 


and  turu  out.  l^repare  a  border  of  aspic  jelly,  and  when  set,  turn  it  out  in  the 
same  manner  as  tlie  small  molds,  and  dish  up  the  little  molds  on  it;  place  a  wax 
figure  in  the  center,  and  till  up  all  around  tJiis  with  a  nice  mayonnaise  of 
lettuce,  any  nice  pieces  of  lobster,  seasoned  with  salad-oil  and  tarragon  vinegar, 
arranging  the  mayonnaise  on  the  top  by  means  of  a  forcing-bag  and  rose-pipe; 
sprinkle  over  this  a  little  yolk  of  hard  boiled  egg  that  has  been  rubbed  through 
a  sieve,  lobster  coral  and  quarters  of  plovers;  eggs  when  in  season,  or  prepared 
crayfish  bodies.     Serve  for  a  second-course,  ball  supper  or  luncheon  dish. 

LOBSTER  A   LA   ST.   CLOUD. 

Hoviard  ci  la  St.  Cloud. 
Line  a  mold  about  one  eighth  of  an  inch  thick  with  aspic  jelly,  and  when 
this  is  set.  garnish  it  alternately  with  little  bunches  of  green,  red  and  white 
garnish,  as  below;  set  these  garnlslies  with  a  little  more  aspic  jelly,  and  tlien 
arrange  slices  of  cooked  lobster  all  over  it,  setting  them  with  aspic  jelly:  till  up 
the  inside  of  the  mold  with  tlie  ragout,  as  below,  and  leave  it  until  set;  then  dip 


the  mold  into  hot  water,  pass  a  clean  cloth  over  the  bottom  of  it  to  absorb  any 
moisture,  and  turn  the  contents  out  onto  the  dish  on  which  it  is  to  be  served.  If 
a  mold  with  a  pipe  has  been  used,  fill  up  the  inside  with  any  nice  pieces  of  cold 
fish  that  may  have  been  left  from  the  previous  dinner,  mixed  with  a  little  crisp 
and  well-washed  lettuce,  a  few  capers,  and  turned  olives  which  may  or  may  not 
be  farced  with  anchovies;  season  these  all  together  with  a  little  salad-oil, 
tarragon  and  chilli  vinegar  and  a  little  picked  hirragon  and  chervil,  and  then 
cover  the  top  with  a  good,  thick  mayonnaise  sauce  to  a  good  height,  as  in  the 
engraving;  sprinkle  the  mayonnaise  over  with  a  little  coral  and  chopped 
tan-agon  and  chervil;  stick  here  and  there  a  sprig  of  green  tarragon  and  chervil, 
and  garnish  around  the  dish,  as  a  border,  with  finely  chopped  aspic  jelly. 

Ragout  for  Lobster  a  la  St.  Cloud.— Take  two  ounces  of  cooked  lobster, 
two  ounces  of  any  cooked  fish,  three  yolks  of  hard-boiled  eggs,  three  large 
Christiania  anchovies  that  have  been  boned,  two  or  three  French  gherkins;  cut 
all  into  small  dice  shapes,  and  add  about  tAvelve  very  thinly  cut  slices  of  raw 
cucumber  and  one  tablespoonful  of  raw.  small  picked  leaves  of  tarragon  and 
chervil;  put  them  into  a  basin,  and  mix  Avith  a  gill  of  thick  mayonnaise  sauce, 


6o  OTSTEES    AND   FISH. 

half  a  tablev^poonful  of  tarrasoii  vinegar  and  two  aud  one  half  gills  of  aspic 
jelly;  stir  these  all  together  on  ice  (if  you  have  it)  until  the  mixture  begins  to 
set;  pour  into  molds,  and  leave  until  cool. 

Gkeejst  Gakxish  for  Mold.— Take  a  little  mixed  parsley,  tarragon  and  cher- 
vil, and  put  them  into  a  stew-pan.  with  enough  cold  water  to  cover  them,  a  tiny 
bit  of  soda  and  a  pinch  of  salt;  bring  to  a  boil,  then  strain,  and  press  quite  dry, 
rub  through  a  sieve,  and  mix  Avith  it  about  three  tablespoonfuls  of  aspic  jelly 
and  a  few  drops  of  sap-green,  and  stir  until  cold;  then  put  it  into  a  forcing-bag 
with  a  plain  pipe,  and  force  it  out  about  the  size  of  peas  into  the  mold. 

Red  Garnish. — Mix  a  little  coral  from  the  lobster  in  a  stew-pan,  with  enough 
aspic  jelly  to  make  it  moist;  stir  as  for  the  green  mixture  until  set,  then  put  it 
into  a  forcing-bag,  and  use  in  the  same  manner  as  the  green. 

White  Garnish.— Chop  fine  the  white  of  a  hard-boiled  egg,  then  mix  with 
it  one  teaspoonful  of  thick  cream  and  one  half  a  gill  of  aspic  jelly;  stir  until  set, 
put  into  a  forcing-bag,  and  use  in  the  same  manner  as  the  green. 

SALAD  OF  LOBSTER  A   LA  TURQUE. 

Salade  de  Homard  cl  la  Turque. 

Line  a  piccolo  border-mold  about  one  fourth  of  au  inch  thick  with  aspic  jelly. 

and  fill  up  the  center  with  lobster  puree,  then  set  aside  in  a  cool  place  until 

tirm;  line  some  little  egg-molds  similarly  to  the  border-mold,  and  place  them 


in  a  basin  containing  crushed  ice;  Avhen  the  aspic  jelly  is  set,  line  them  again 
about  one  eighth  of  an  inch  thick  AA'ith  lobster  puree,  and  AA'hen  in  season,  place 
a  bantam's  or  plover's  egg.  boiled,  in  the  center;  when  tliese  are  not  obtainable, 
use  the  yolk  of  a  hard-boiled  egg;  till  up  the  molds  Avith  a  little  cool  aspic  jelly, 
close  the  tAvo  parts  of  the  mold  together,  and  put  them  aside  on  ice  until  firm; 
AA'hen  ready  to  serA'e,  dip  the  border-mold  into  hot  AA'ater.  pass  a  clean  cloth  over 
the  bottom  to  absorb  any  moisture,  then  turn  out  onto  the  dish  on  Avhich  it  has 
to  be  sent  to  the  table;  turn  out  the  little  eggs  similarly,  and  arrange  one  in  each 
of  the  spaces  of  the  border-mold,  and  set  this  with  a  little  finely  chopped  aspic 
jelly  by  means  of  forcing-bag  Avith  a  small,  plain  pipe;  fill  up  the  center  of 
the  border  with  a  nice  lettuce  salad,  and  on  this  arrange  some  cooked  lobster 
prepared  as  beloAV.  and  also  one  of  the  little  eggs;  garnish  around  the  dish  Avith 
a  thiclv  mayonnaise  sauce,  made  by  mixing  Avith  half  a  pint  of  mayonnaise  a 
fourth  of  a  pint  of  liquid  aspic,  and  stirring  on  ice  until  beginning  to  set;  theu 


OYSTP]RS    AND    FISH. 


09 


use  by  iiii'MUS  of  ;i  roi-ciny-hay-  and  lar,i;v  rose-pipe,  and  si)rinkle  liere  and  there 
Willi  a  little  lobster  coral  and  eliopped  parsley,  and  garnish  with  some  cooked 
prawns  and  little  sprigs  of  tarragon  and  chervil,  as  in  engraving.  Serve  for  a 
dn^ssed  fish,  for  a  second-course  dish,  for  a  ball  siippei",  etc. 

r'UREE  FOR  TiOHSTEU  A  LA  TuKQUE.— Pouud  all  together  until  smooth,  one  half 
pound  of  cooked  lobstei",  six  washed  anil  boned  anchovies,  two  yolks  of  hard- 
boiled  eggs,  a  dessert-spoonful  of  anchovy  essence,  a  dust  of  red  pepi)er,  a  few 
drops  of  liquid  carmine,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  thick  cream  and  one  tablespoonful 
of  salad-oil;  when  pounded,  mix  in  three  fourths  of  a  pint  of  aspic  jelly,  rub 
through  a  tammy-cloth  or  fine  hair-sieve,  and  use  when  cooling. 

GARNisiriNC  FOR  LoBSTER  A  EA  TuRQUE. — Take  the  body  from  a  cooked 
lobster,  free  it  from  bo)ies,  and  cut  it  into  slices  about  one  fourth  of  an  inch 
thick;  place  the  pieces  on  a  disli  or  tin,  and  mask  them  over  with  a  little  aspic 
jelly,  sprinkle  witli  a  little  lobster  coral  and  finely  cliopped  parsley,  and  leave 
them  until  set,  then  trin\  tlie  edges,  and  use. 

LITTLE  BOMBS  OF  LOBSTER  A  LA   BERLIN. 

Petites  Bombes  de  Homard  (i  la  Berlin. 

Take  some  little  l)omb-molds  and  thinly  line  them  with  aspic  jelly,  ornament 

them  at  the  tops  with  cut  truflie  to  form  a  star,  and  around  the  middle  of  the 

molds  an-ange  a  row  of  little  round  pieces  of  truIHe,  and  form  a  border  of  cut 


truffle  and  sprigs  of  chervil  at  the  bottom  of  the  mold;  mask  the  garnish  all 
over  Avith  more  aspic  jelly,  fill  the  molds  with  lobster  puree,  as  below,  put  them 
away  to  set,  and  when  cold,  dip  each  mold  into  hot  water;  turn  out  the  bombs, 
and  dish  up  on  a  border  of  aspic  jelly;  the  mold  for  the  border  may  be  orna- 
mented with  truffle  and  chervil  to  correspond  with  tlie  garnish  of  the  little 
molds.  Take  a  wax  figure  for  the  center,  and  garnish  around  the  figure  with  a 
nice  mayonnaise  of  cooked  artichoke  bottoms  or  other  vegetables  that  are  cut 
into  little  square  pieces,  or  cooked  salsifies,  using  when  cold,  and  seasoning  with 
oil  and  lemon-juice  instead  of  butter;  also  place  little  sjirigs  of  chervil  and 
tarragon  around  the  top  near  the  figure,  and  chopped  aspic  jelly  around  the  dish. 
PxiREE  OF  Lobster  for  Litti,e  Bombs  a  la  Berlin.— Take  six  ounces  of 
freshly  cooked  lobster,  four  anchovies,  one  salt-spoonful  of  carmine,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  anchovy  essence,  a  dust  of  red  pepper  and  one  good  tablespoonful  of 


70 


OYSTERS    AND    FISH. 


salad-oil;  pouud  all  together,  aud  rub  tlirougli  a  line  hair-sieve  or  tammj-,  and 
mix  with  the  puree  two  and  one  half  gills  of  whipped  aspic  jelly  and  a  gill  of 
stiffly  whipped  cream;  put  into  the  molds  with  a  bag  aud  plain  pipe,  and  set 
aside  until  firm. 

LOBSTER  A  LA  BOULEVARD. 
Homard  ci  In  Boulerard. 
Line  some  small  ^^•aluut-molds  very  thinly  with  aspic  jelly,  and  when  this  is 
set.  mask  it  over  with  a  little  brown  chaudfroid  sauce  (.see  below);  let  this  set. 
then  fill  up  the  molds  witli  a  piu-ee  of  lobster  .see  below),  close  the  molds,  and 
set  them  aside  on  ice  until  cold,  then  dip  each  one  sei>arately  into  hot  water, 
and  turn  out.  Have  some  well-washed,  crisp  celery  that  is  very  liuely  shredded 
and  seasoned  with  a  little  salad-oil.  aud  a  little  finely  chopped  sliallot.  a  little 
salt  and  tarragon  vinegar;  partly  fill  some  little  paper  cases  with  this,  place  one 
of  the  little  walnut  shapes  in  each  case,  and  arrauge  here  and  there  in  each 
some  little  bunches  of  s)nall  salad;  dish  up  on  a  paper  on  a  dish,  if  they  are  to 
be  served  for  a  savoiy,  or  if  for  a  hors-d'oeuvre,  arrange  each  case  on  a  small 
plate  on  a  paper.  These  are  also  very  nice  served  for  a  ball  supper  or  for  any 
collation. 


Puree  FOR  Lobster  a  la  Boii.etaed. — Pound  until  smooth  one  fourth  of  a 
pound  of  cooked  lobster,  a  few  drops  of  liquid  carmine,  a  teaspoonful  of 
anchovy  essence,  a  dust  of  red  pepper,  one  teaspoonful  of  French  and  the  same 
of  English  mustard,  two  yolks  of  hard-boiled  eggs,  oue  teaspoonful  of  tarragon 
vinegar  and  four  olives;  mix  with  one  gill  of  aspic  jelly,  rub  all  through  a  fine 
hair-sieve,  aud  use  for  filling  the  molds  when  beginning  to  set,  enough  for  eight 
to  ten  molds. 

Beowts"  Chaudfroid  Sauce  for  Loester  a  la  BouuEVARD.-r-Take  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  brown  sauce,  one  half  ounce  of  gelatin,  one  and  one  half  gills  of 
aspic  jelly  and  one  half  ounce  of  glaze;  reduce  one  fourth,  tammy,  and  use  when 
cooling. 

LOBSTER  A  LA  BOEDELAISE.. 

Cut  the  raw  lobster  into  medium-sized  pieces;  remove  with  care  the  pouch 
and  intestines.  Put  some  butter  and  oil  into  a  stew-pan;  heat  it.  and  put  the 
lobster  in;  parboil  over  a  very  hot  fire;  season  well  with  fine  salt,  pepper  and 
grated  nutmeg;  when  it  has  taken  on  some  color,  poiu-  over  a  little  brandy,  let 
stew.  Take  a  small  quantity  of  chopped,  washed  sliallot.  moisten  with  half  a 
bottle  of  white  wine,  and  let  cook  for  fifteen  minutes;  sprinkle  over  it  a  little 
cayenne  and  a  pinch  of  chopped  parsley;  add  a  little  fine  butter  and  juice  of  a 
citron.     Pour  it  over  the  lobster,  and  serve. 

Louis  Marche,  Clief  of  Burnet  House,  Cincinnati,  Oliio, 


OYSTERS    AND    FISH.  71 

LOBSTER  A    LA   NEWBURG. 

Cut  the  moat  of  a  freshly  boiled  lobster  into  large  diee;  melt  iu  a  saucepan  a 
good-sized  piece  of  butter;  when  very  hot,  add  tlie  lobster,  let  it  fry  for  about 
five  minutes,  pour  iu  a  glassfid  of  sherry  wine,  or,  if  handy,  a  glassful  of 
Madeii'a;  cover  the  saucepan,  and  let  it  boil  two  minutes.  In  a  tumblerful  of 
good,  fresh  cream  mix  two  yolks  of  eggs,  a  pinch  of  cayenne  pepper,  a  pincl\  of 
nutmeg,  one  half  teaspoonful  of  corn-starch  and  a  little  salt;  beat  this  mixture 
with  a  fork,  and  pour  it  iuto  the  saucepan,  toss  it  until  the  sauce  gets  thick,  add 
another  glassful  of  sherry  or  Madeira  wine,  and  serve.  I'his  dish  can  be  made 
on  a  chating-dish  on  the  table;  if  so,  omit  the  corn-starch  and  add  the  yolks  of 
two  more  eggs. 

A.  J.  PiUauet,  Chef  Weat  Hotel,  Minneapolis,  Minnesota. 

DRESSED  CRAB. 

Crabe  Dresse. 
Put  a  fresh  crab  into  a  stew-pan,  and  boil  it  in  slightly  salted  water  for  thirty 
or  forty  minutes,  according  to  the  size  of  the  tish;  when  cooked,  take  it  up,  and 
set  aside  until  cold,  then  remove  the  large  and  small  claws,  crack  the  large  claw- 
shells,  remove  all  the  bone,  and  with  a  fork  carefully  remove  all  the  inside, 


making  it  quite  crumby,  and  separating  all  the  pieces  carefully;  put  aside  about 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  this  to  use  later  on;  join  all  the  little  claws  together,  and 
reserve  them  for  twisting  around  the  crab  Avheu  it  is  dished  iip;  this  forms  a 
pretty  garnish.  Talve  all  the  creamy  part  from  the  body  of  the  crab,  throw 
away  the  bag,  which  will  be  found  inside  the  case  near  the  head,  chop  up  all  the 
creamy  part,  and  then  put  it  into  a  basin  with  that  from  the  claws,  and  add  for 
seasoning  one  dessert-spoonful  of  anchovy  essence,  one  tal)lespoonful  of  French 
tarragon  vinegar  and  the  same  of  chilli,  one  tablespoonful  of  salad-oil.  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  mixed  English  and  the  same  of  French  mustard,  a  dust  of  cayenne 
pepper,  a  pinch  of  salt,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  stiffly  wliipped  cream,  the  strained 
juice  of  one  lemon,  a  pinch  of  castoi'-sugar,  a  little  fresh-chopped  tarragon  and 
chervil;  stir  all  together  with  a  wooden  spoon,  and  with  it  fill  up  the  body  case 
of  the  crab  that  has  been  well  Avashed  and  dried,  piling  up  well  in  the  center; 
take  that  set  aside  from  the  large  claws,  and  sliglitly  sprinkle  it  over  this 
creamy  part;  place  the  t'ase  thus  filled  on  a  dish  on  a  paper,  arrange  the  little 
claws  around  it.  and  here  and  there  garnish  it  with  sprigs  of  raw  green  parsley, 
and  serve  for  breakfast,  luncheon,  second  course,  ball  suppers,  etc. 


72 


OYSTERS   AND   FISH. 


TIME  A  L  OF  CRAB  A  LA  ROSETTE. 
Timbale  cle  Crabe  H  la  Rosette. 
Take  a  plain  tinibal-mold,  put  it  on  ice  in  a  basin,  and  line  it  about  one 
eighth  of  an  inch  thick  with  aspic  jelly,  ornament  the  bottom  of  the  mold  one 
inch  deep,  as  in  engraving-,  with  plainlj-  cooked  vegetables,  carrots,  turnips, 
cucumber  and  French  beans,  cut  in  lengths  about  one  half  inch  long  and  about 
the  thickness  of  a  thick  straw;  place  around  the  edge  of  these  a  ring  of  cucum- 
ber peas  or  green  peas,  set  this  garnish  Avitli  a  little  aspic  jelly,  then  pour  into 
the  mold  a  layer  of  crab  puree,  prawn  or  lobster  (see  below)  to  about  the  same 
depth  as  the  vegetables;  let  this  partly  set,  then  arrange  on  the  side  of  the  mold 
another  layer  of  the  vegetables  of  the  same  depth  as  the  preceding  layers,  in  a 
slanting  direction  from  left  to  right,  pour  on  a  little  aspic  to  set  it,  then  add 
another  layer  in  a  contrary  direction  (see  engraving),  set  Avith  aspic,  fill  up  the 
mold  with  crab  puree,  and  put  aside  until  the  contents  are  set;  when  ready  to 


dish  up,  dip  the  molds  into  hot  water,  pass  a  clean  cloth  over  the  bottom  to 
absorb  any  moisture,  turn  out  in  the  center  of  a  cold  entree-dish;  place  little 
rounds  of  aspic  jelly  all  around  the  base,  garnish  each  corner  of  the  dish  with 
the  cooked  vegetables,  mixed  with  a  thick  mayonnaise  sauce,  place  on  the  top  of 
each  of  these  bunches  some  plainly  cooked  prawns,  and  serve  for  an  entree  or 
second-course  dish,  or  for  a  cold  collation. 

"  Cbab  Puree.— Remove  the  bones  from  a  small,  freshly  cooked  crab,  and  with 
a  fork  take  all  tlie  meat  out  of  it;  put  this  into  a  basin,  and  mix  with  it  a  dust  of 
red  pepper,  a  salt-spoonful  of  salt,  a  teaspoonful  of  French  and  English  mustard, 
a  dessert-spoonful  of  anchovy  essence  and  a  tablespoonful  of  tarragon  vinegar; 
pound  all  together  until  quite  smooth,  add  a  few  drops  of  liquid  carmine,  one 
half  gill  of  cream  and  two  and  one  half  gills  of  liquid  aspic  jelly;  rub  all 
together  through  a  fine  hair-sieve,  and  use  as  described  above. 


EEL  IN  JELLY  A  LA  DIEPPE. 
Anguille  en  Gelee  d,  la  Dieppe. 
Skin  and  bone  a  good-sized  eel,  lay  it  open  on  a  dish,  and  farce  it  by  means  of 
a  forcing-bag  and  pipe,  with  the  prepared  farce;  to  do  this,  spread  out  the  farce 
in  a  long  strip,  then  place  in  the  center  of  it  any  nice  pieces  of  cold  cooked  fish, 
such  as  lobster,  sole,  oysters,  and  also  some  farced  olives;  roll  the  eel  up  with  the 
farce  inside,  sew  up  the  fish  so  that  the  farce  cannot  escape,  truss  it  with  tape 
in  a  round  form,  put  it  into  a  piece  of  buttered  muslin,  and  place  it  in  a  pan  with 


OYSTERS    AND    FISH. 


73 


siiHicicnt  hoilin.!;  fisli  s>tock  to  cover  it,  add  a  few  vegetables,  such  as  carrot, 
ouion,  celery  aud  herbs,  and  boil  for  twenty-five  to  thirty  minutes,  according  to 
the  size  of  the  eel:  then  take  up,  and  when  cold,  remove  the  tape,  etc.;  mask  it 
over  with  mayonnaise  aspic,  and  when  cold,  ornament  it  straight  down  the  back 


with  truffles,  French  gherkin,  French  red  chillies  and  the  white  of  hard-boiled 
egg;  set  this  with  a  little  aspic  jelly,  then  dish  up  the  eel,  as  in  engraving,  on 
aspic  that  is  colored  an  olive  shade  Avith  sap-green,  and  garnish  the  center  with 
any  nice  salad  or  mixed  vegetables,  olives,  anchovies  and  chopped  jelly;  arrange 
around  the  base  of  the  dish  two  rows  of  little  blocks  of  aspic  jelh%  forcing 
between  each  a  little  chopped  aspic  jelly;  place  in  the  eel  at  regular  intervals 
some  skewers,  aud  serve  for  dinner,  luncheon  or  f(;r  a  cold  collation.  Glass  eyes 
can  be  used  to  garnish  the  tish,  if  they  are  obtainable. 

Farce  for  Eel  a  la  Dieppe.— Pound  four  ounces  of  any  white  fish,  with 
four  ounces  of  panard  and  three  raw  yolks  of  eggs,  until  smooth,  season  with 
salt  and  a  little  red  pepper,  aud  rub  thi'ough  a  sieve;  then  mix  with  a  few  drops 
of  li(iuid  carmine,  a  salt-spoonful  of  anchovy  essence  and  chopped  parsley, 
and  use. 

ANCHOVIES  A   LA   COLMAR. 
Anchois  S  la  Colmar. 
Take  some  of  the  prepai'ed  Christiania  anchovies,  curl  each  one  up,  and  place 
it  on  a  little  round  crouton  of  fried  bread,  garnished  with  the  white  and  volk  of 


hard-boiled  egg  that  have  been  rubbed  through  a  wire  sieve;  garnish  around 
eacli  crouton  witli  anchovy  cream  (see  recipe),  using  a  forcing-bag  and  small 
rose-pipe  for  the  purjiose;  dish  up  on  paper,  and  serve  one  to  each  pei"Son.  These 
can  also  be  served  as  a  savory  or  for  anv  cold  collation. 


74 


OYSTERS    AND    FISH. 


VARIED  HORS-D'OEUVKES. 
Hors-d'ceuvres  Varies. 
Take  some  farced  olives,  small  s(ixiare  pieces  of  prepared  lax,  French  capers, 
Christiauia  aucliovies,  cleansed  crisp  radishes,  crayfish  bodies,  and  raw 
cucumber  tliat  has  been  linely  cut  and  seasoned  ^^'ith  a  little  red  pepper,  salt 
and  salad-oil.  Form  a  border  with  the  cucumber,  and  arrange  the  other 
delicacies  according  to  the  size  of  the  plate  on  which  they  are  to  be  served.  If 
small  plates  are  used,  the  contents  may  be  varied,  the  fish  being  spriuliled,  just 


before  serving,  with  a  little  S!ih)d-oil.  The  above  can  be  used  as  a  savory,  in 
which  case  a  flat  oi-  entree  dish  would  be  used.  If  serving  as  hors-d'oeuvres,  a 
single  plate  can,  if  convenient,  be  placed  before  each  guest;  or  several  can  be 
placed  at  intervals  about  the  table,  or  they  may  be  handed  with  spoon  and  fork, 
to  allow  the  guests  to  help  themselves. 

BROILED  OYSTERS. 

Drain  select  oysters  in  a  colander;  dip  them,  one  by  one,  into  melted  butter 
to  prevent  them  sticking  to  the  broiler;  broil  quickly  over  a  bed  of  live  coals; 
when  nicely  browned  on  both  sides,  season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  plenty  of 
butter,  and  lay  them  on  hot,  buttered  toast;  wet  with  a  little  hot  milk,  and  serve 
very  hot  or  they  will  not  be  nice.  Oysters  cooked  in  this  way  and  served  on 
broiled  beefsteak  are  nice, 


Chapter  VI. 


Chiokons,  turkoys,  geese  and  ducks  are  better  killed  the  day  before  usinj?,  and 
during  the  winter  two  or  three  days'  keeping  will  be  no  injury.  Also  avoid 
feeding  them  for  twenty-four  hours  before  killing. 

The  best  way  is  to  tie  the  feet  together,  hang  from  a  horizontal  pole,  tie  the 
wings  together  ovc^r  the  back  with  a  strip  of  soft  cotton  cloth,  let  them  hang 
five  minutes,  then  make  an  incision  in  the  throat  or  cut  off  the  head,  and  allow 
tliem  to  hang  until  the  blood  has  ceased  to  drip.  Chicliens  only  should  be 
scalded;  other  fowls  and  game  should  be  picked  dry  until  all  the  feathers  are 
removed  except  tlie  very  soft  down,  tlieh  pour  on  liot  water;  this  will  swell  the 
fowl,  and  the  down  can  be  easily  rubl)ed  off  with  the  palm  of  the  hand.  Wipe 
dry,  and  singe  over  burning  paper  to  remove  the  hair. 

If  it  is  an  old  fowl,  feed  a  leaspoouful  of  vinegar  half  an  hour  before  killing, 
which  is  said  to  make  it  tender.  Also,  in  boiling  a  fowl,  a  very  little  soda  or  a 
tablespoonful  of  vinegar  added  to  tlie  water  will  make  it  quite  tender. 

To  cut  up  a  cliicken,  lay  upon  a  board,  cut  off  tlie  feet  at  the  first  joint,  cut 
a  slit  in  the  neck,  take  out  the  \\innpii)e  and  crop,  cur  off  the  wings  and  legs  at 
the  joints  which  unite  them  to  tlie  body,  separate  tlie  first  joint  of  the  leg  from 
t)u;  second,  cut  off  the  oil-bag.  make  a  slit  horizontally  under  the  tail,  cut  the 
end  of  the  entrails  loose,  extend  the  slit  on  eacli  side  of  the  joint  where  the  legs 
were  cut  off;  then  with  the  left  hand  hold  the  breast  of  the  chicken,  and  with 
the  right  bend  back  the  rump  until  the  joint  in  the  back  separates,  cut  it  clear, 
and  place  in  water;  take  out  the  entrails,  using  a  sharp  knife  to  separate  the 


76  POULTRY   AKD   GAME. 

e^'gs  and  all  otlier  particles  to  be  removed  from  the  back,  being  careful  in 
ri-iDoving-  the  heart  and  liver  not  to  break  the  gall-bag  (a  small  sack  of  blue- 
green  color,  about  an  incli  long,  attached  to  the  liver),  separate  the  back  and 
bieast;  commence  at  the  high  point  of  the  breast  and  ..cut  downward  towai'd 
the  head,  taking  off  the  breast  Avith  the  wishbone;  cut  the  neck  from  that  part 
of  the  back  to  Avhich  the  ribs  are  attached,  turn  the  skin  off  the  neck,  and  take 
out  all  lumps  and  stringy  substances;  A^ery  carefully  remove  the  gall-bag  from 
the  liver,  and  clean  the  gizzard  by  making  an  incision  through  the  thick  part 
and  lirst  lining,  peeling  off  the  flesliy  pai't,  leaving  the  inside  whole  and  ball- 
shaped;  if  the  lining  breaks,  open  the  gizzard,  pour  out  the  contents,  peel  off 
the  innei-  lining  and  wash  thoroughly.  After  washing  in  the  second  water  the 
chicken  Is  ready  to  be  cooked. 

When  young  chickens  are  to  be  baked,  w^ith  a  sharp  knife  cut  open  the  back 
ar  the  side  of  the  backbone,  press  apart,  and  clean  as  above  directed,  and  place 
in  a  dripping-pan,  skin  side  up. 

Keeping  a  panful  of  water  in  the  oven  will  keep  fowls  from  scorching. 

Wild  game  should  be  fried  in  butter  before  boiling,  as  it  improves  the  flavor. 

If  the  fishy  taste  in  wild  game  is  objectionable, 
it  can  be  removed  by  putting  a  small  onion,  cut 
fine,  into  the  Avater  in  Avhich  it  is  cooked,  or 
carrots,  if  onions  are  not  liked.  Poultky-knifb. 

Game  can  be  kept  two  days  in  Avarm  Aveather 
by  cleaning  thoroughly,   rubbing  the  insides  and   necks  with  pepper,   plac^ing 
inside  several  pieces  of  charcoal,  covering  Avith  a  cloth,  and  hanging  in  a  dark, 
cool  place. 

If,  from  the  odor,  you  feel  they  are  at  all  stale,  soaldng  a  fcAv  hours  in  char- 
coal-water or  soda-water  Avill  SAveeten  your  game  Avhen  apparently  spoiled. 

There  is  nothing  so  repulsive  as  underdone  game  or  poultry.  Be  sure  it  is 
well  done  in  cooking. 

To  select  poultry,  try  if  the  Aving  Avill  spring  easily,  or  the  breast-bone  bend 
readily  under  the  pressure  of  the  thumb.  The  skin  that  attaches  the  wing  to 
the  body  should  break. 

A  steamer  for  cooking  turkeys  can  be  improvised  by  placing  some  pieces  of 
kindling  in  the  bottom  of  a  Avash-boiler;  upon  these  place  the  turkey;  put  in 
only  enough  hot  Avater  to  cover  the  kinc^ling,  put  on  the  boiler-lid,  and  set  over 
the  fire.  If  the  Avater  boils  aAvay,  replenish  with  hot  w^ater.  Keep  closely  cov- 
ered, to  prevent  the  escape  of  steam.  One  hour  Avill  be  snflocient  time  to  steam  it 
before  baking. 

The  breasts  of  many  of  our  wild  game  birds.  A\'hen  properly  taken  off,  make 
beautiful  ornaments,  and  are  useful  in  trimming  hats,  muffs,  etc.  To  properly 
remove  them,  it  is  necessary  to  skin  the  birds.  To  do  this,  Avith  a  sharp  knife 
cut  the  skin  on  the  back  from  the  neck  to  the  tail  in  a  straight  line;  then  skin- 
each  side  by  cutting  the  connecting  tissue.  When  removed,  rub  with  water  in 
which  salt  and  saltpeter  have  been  dissolved  in  the  proportion  of  one  part  of 
saltpeter  to  four  of  salt,  and  tack  up  on  the  side  of  the  house  or  barn,  where  the 
S1U1  can  dry  the  skin  thoroughly. 

Garnish  means  to  add  a  trimming  to  meat,  poultry  or  salads.  In  dishing  up 
roast  meat,  lay  a  spoonful  of  jelly  of  gooseberries  just  on  the  slice  to  be  served 


POULTRY   AND   GAME. 


77 


to  one  person.  Trim  the  edges  of  dishes  upon  whieh  ponltry  is  served.  CeU  ry 
and  parsley  heaves,  hard-boiled  eggs,  water-cresses,  lettnoe  and  jellies  are  the 
principal  articles  used. 

CHICKEN   AND   LITTLE  TONGUES   A   LA  VIENNOLSE. 

Take  a  nice  white  fowl,  picked,  singed  and  boned,  with  the  exception  of  the 
bottom  part  of  the  back  and  legs  and  wings,  turn  tlie  bird  inside  out,  season 
witli  chopped  parsley,  salt  and  pepper,  then  turn  it  back  into  its  natural  form, 
and  farce  it  from  the  neck-end  witli  the  farce  prepared  as  below;  sew  up  the 
opening,  take  off  the  feet,  skin  them,  and  reti;rn  to  the  bird,  having  trimmed 
and  shortened  them  at  the  bone;  rub  the  bird  A\ell  all  over  Avilh  butter,  wrap 
it  in  a  well-greased  paper,  place  it  on  a  baking-tin,  and  roast  it  in  front  of  the 
fire  for  forty  to  fifty  minutes,  according  to  the  size  of  the  fowl;  keep  it  well 
basted  while  cooking,  and  when  a  nice  golden  color,  take  up  and  set  aside  until 
cold;  then  mjisk  it  over  with  brown  and  Avhite  chaudfroid  sauce  (as  in  eugra- 
ving),  garnish  with  aspic  cream  tliat  is  cut  with  a  fancy  cutter,  and  sprigs  of 
chervil  and  French  red  chilli,  setting  the  garnisli  witli  a  little  more  aspic  jelly; 
dish  up  on  a  bed  of  chopped  aspic,  garnish  around  with  the  little  prepared 
tongues,  arrange  here  and  there  some  fiuanciere  on  hatelet  skewers,  arrange 


between  these  some  blocks  of  aspic  and  any  nice  vegetables,  seasoned  with 
s:ilad-oil,  tnrragon  vinegar,  chopped  shallot,  salt  and  pepper,  and  serve  for  a 
ball  supper  or  for  any  cold  collation. 

Farce  for  Chicken  a  la  Viennoise.— Pass  one  pound  of  veal,  rabbit  or 
chicken  and  one  pound  of  lean  raw  i>ork  or  bncon  through  a  sausage-machine, 
tlien  rub  it  through  a  coarse  wire  sieve,  and  mix  in  a  basin  Avith  two  wine- 
glassfuls  of  cooking  sherry,  twelve  raw  bearded  sauce  oysters  cut  into  dice 
shapes,  one  salt-spoonful  of  pepper,  one  chopped  shallot,  two  ounces  of  lean 
cooked  ham  or  tongue,  a  little  salt,  two  whole  raw  eggs  and  one  teaspoonful  of 
finely  chopped  parslej^;  mix,  and  use. 

loisGUES  FOR  Chicken  a  la  Viennoise.— Line  some  little  tongue-molds  with 
liquid  aspic  jelly,  garnish  with  tiny  sprigs  of  chervil,  set  Avith  aspic,  fill  each 
with  Ihe  puree  prepared  as  l>elow;  leave  them  in  a  cool  place  until  set,  then 
dip  them  into  wai-m  water,  turn  out  onto  a  cloth,  and  use.  P'or  the  puree  take 
six  ounces  of  lean  cooked  ham  or  tongue,  one  lablespoonful  of  tomato  sauce, 


78  POULTRY   AZSri)    GAME. 

one  yolk  of  bard-boiled  egg,  a  dust  of  pepper  and  a  few  drops  of  carmine;  pound 
together  until  smooth,  then  mix  with  it  one  fourth  of  a  pint  of  oyster  liqwor,  the 
same  quantity  of  strong,  well-flavored  stock  that  has  been  mixed  with  one  fourth 
of  an  ounce  of  gelatin  and  one  half  wine-glassful  of  sherry;  rub  through  a  fine 
hair- sieve  before  setting,  then  slightly  dissolve,  and  mix  with  one  tablespoonful 
of  thick  cream,  and  use  Avhen  beginning  to  set. 

CHICKEN  A   LA  BECHAMEL. 

Take  a  nice  fat  fowl,  pick,  singe  and  draw  it,  and  truss  it  either  with  skewers 
or  strings  for  boiling;  rub  it  all  OA'er  well  with  lemon-juice,  and  then  place  it  in 
a  buttered  cloth,  with  two  or  three  slices  of  fat  bacon  on  the  breast;  tie  it  up  in 
a  cloth,  put  it  into  a  steAv-pan,  and  let  it  simmer  gently  on  the  side  of  the 
stove  for  about  one  hour;  then  remove  the  stew-pan  from  the  stove,  and  let  the 
bird  remain  in  the  liquor  until  cold;  take  it  up,  and  remove  the  trussing  strings 
or  skewers,  and  mask  it  over  about  one  fourth  of  an  inch  thick  with  white 
chaudfroid  sauce,  and  afterward  mask  it  over  with  a  little  liquid  aspic  jelly; 


dish  up,  and  garnish  it  straight  down  the  breast  with  little  rounds  of  cooked 
ox-tongue  or  lean  haua  about  one  eighth  of  an  inch  thick  and  one  and  one  half 
inches  in  diameter,  stamped  out  with  a  plain  round  cutter;  mask  these  over  with 
a  little  aspic  jelly  that  is  colored  with  a  few  drops  of  liquid  carmine,  using  this 
when  it  is  cooling,  and  placing  the  pieces  on  a  baking-tin  or  flat  dish  while 
masking  them;  and  after  the  jelly  is  quite  set.  cut  the  rounds  out  and  arrange 
thorn  as  directed  above,  overlapping  each  other.  Have  some  finely  chopped  aspic 
jelly,  and  by  means  of  a  forcing-bag  witli  a  small,  plain  pipe,  garnish  the  rounds 
as  shown  in  the  engraving;  have  some  prawns  or  crayfish,  with  Avhole  trufiles, 
arranged  on  hatelet  skewers,  and  pierce  these  through  the  breast  and  through 
the  wings  of  the  bird,  garnishing  the  latter  with  one  of  the  rounds  of  tongue  or 
ham;  around  tlie  poularde  place  as  a  border  some  good-sized,  prettily  cut  blocks 
of  aspic,  and  also  here  and  there  some  chopped  aspic  between,  and  little  sprigs 
of  fresh  tarragon  and  chervil.    This  forms  a  nice  dish  for  any  cold  collation. 


POULTRY    AND    GAME.  79 

niLCKEN   CHEESE. 

(^ook  a  cliickt'ii  until  it  is  very  tender.  Cook  the  fjravy  or  liciuor  of  the 
chicken  all  down  to  a  .j(>ll;  take  out  all  the  bones,  and  choi)  the  meat;  season 
with  suit  and  pepper,  and  a  little  sage  if  desirable,  and  put  it  into  a  mold;  turn 
out  and  sliee. 

Olive  A.  Biu'kiiian,  Randolph,  Ohio. 

LITTLE  TONGUES   AND  CHICKENS  A   LA    D'ORLEANS. 

Make  some  IittIe*tongues,  as  in  recipe  for  "Little  Tongues  iu  Chaudfroid," 
and  chickens,  as  below,  in  the  respective  molds;  have  some  aspic  cream,  with 
which  mask  the  little  chickens  when  they  are  turned  from  the  shapes,  and 
garnish  with  truttles  and  French  red  chillies,  as  shown  iu  the  engraving;  then 
mask  over  witli  a  little  cool  aspic  jelly  to  set;  take  some  aspic  colored  red  with 
a  little  carmine,  and  ^^  hen  cooling,  mask  the  tongues  witli  it;  chop  some  of  the 
jelly  tine,  put  it  into  a  forcing-bag  with  a  phiin  pipe,  and  force  the  jelly  between 
the  little  tongues  and  the  little  chickens,  and  on  the  top  round  the  hatelet  skewer, 


the  little  tongues  and  the  little  chickens,  and  on  the  top  round  the  hatelet  skewer, 
handsome  dish  for  ball  suppers,  wedding  breakfasts,  etc.  The  tongues  or  the 
chickens  will  make  a  ^ery  pretty 'entree. 

TnE  Little  Cuickens  a  la  D'Okleans.— Take  a  pound  of  cooked  chicken, 
pheasant,  rabbit  or  partridge,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  thick  bechamel  sauce,  one 
tablesjioonful  of  salad-oil.  one  dessert-spoonful  of  tarragon  vinegar,  one  fourth 
of  a  i)int  of  thick  cream  and  a  pinch  of  salt  and  white  pepper;  pound  the  meat, 
mix  in  the  other  ingredients,  add  tliree  fourths  of  a  pint  of  liquid  aspic  jelly, 
pass  the  whole  through  the  tammy  or  through  a  fine  hair-sieve,  and  put  into  the 
prepared  molds;  tiiinly  line  the  little  chicken-molds  with  aspic  jelly,  and  orna- 
ment them  with  little  finely  cut  shreds  of  red  chilli  and  tarragon  and  little 
leaves  of  chervil;  set  these  with  a  little  more  aspic,  and  fill  the  molds  with  the 
above  mixture;  leave  till  cold.  When  required,  just  dip  them  into  hot  water, 
and  turn  them  out  onto  a  clean  cloth  to  absorb  any  moisture;  dish  them  around 
the  lower  border  of  rice  as  directed. 


80 


POULTEY  AND    GAME. 


STE^  ED  CHICKE.X   (BUCKEYE  STYLE). 


Cut  two  young  elilckens  into  eight  pieces  each.  Put  over  a  brisk  fire  a  large 
frying-pan,  with  three  spoonfuls  of  good  oil,  and  let  it  get  very  hot;  pnt  the 
chicken  into  it,  and  fry  to  a  light-brown  color  on  both  sides;  add  two  medium- 
sized,  finely  chopped  onions,  one  half  pound  of  bacon  cut  into  very  small  dice, 
let  fry  a  few  minutes  longer,  and  sprinkle  over  it  one  tablespoonful  of  flour;  add 
a  large  tumblerful  of  good  white  wine,  one  half  pint  of  beef  broth,  one  bay-leaf, 
a  little  thyme  and  a  fagot  of  parsley,  cover  the  pan,  and  let  boil  until  cooked. 
Cut  six  potatoes  into  large  dice,  boil  them  for  one  minute,  then  fry  them  in 
butter  until  brown,  but  not  cooked;  take  them  from  the  butter,  and  put  them  on 
the  pan  containing  tlie  chicken,  and  boil  for  ten  minutes  longer;  season  to  taste, 
and  serve  on  a  platter,  with  a  piece  of  toast  fried  in  butter. 
A.  J.  Pillauet,  Chef  West  Hotel,  Minneapolis,  Minnesota. 

CHICKEN  AU  GKOS  SEL. 

Clean  and  singe  the  chicken,  scald  the  legs,  and  cut  ofi^  the  claws;  make  an 
incision  at  the  upper  extremity  of  the  thigh,  and  put  the  legs  inside;  put  back 
the  rump,  and  truss  the  chicken  so  as  to  give  it  a  nice  shape;  take  half  a  citron, 
and  rub  the  cliicken,  mainly  on  the  fillet;  apply  a  bard  of  pork-fat  on  the  fillet, 
and  tie  so  as  to  keep  in  position.  Furnish  a  stew-pan  with  two  carrots,  two  or 
three  onions  cut  into  slices,  and  a  bouquet  of  garnished  parsley;  place  the 
chicken  into  the  stew-pan  on  its  back,  salt  lightly,  and  season  with  some  grains 
of  pepper;  moisten  with  bouillon  (meat  jelly),  half  skimmed,  not  quite  covering 
the  chicken;  put  on  top  a  leaf  of  buttered  paper;  cover  the  stew-pan,  and  leave 
to  cook  for  one  half  hour  over  a  slow  fire.  At  the  end  of  this  time,  satisfy 
yourself  whether  the  chicken  is  sufliciently  cooked;  turn  the  whole  into  another 
saucepan,  and  skim  it;  add  a  tumblerful  of  meat  sauce  to  give  it  body;  reduce 
one  half,  and  add  a  fillet  of  aromatic  vinegar;  clarify  the  juice  with  the  white  of 
an  egg,  and  pass  through  a  strainer,  or  through  the  corner  of  a  napkin;  dress  the 
chicken  on  a  serving-dish;  remove  the  bard  of  pork-fat  and  untie;  put  on  the 
edge  of  the  dish  two  pinches  of  coarse  salt  and  two  quarters  of  a  citron;  serve 
the  gi'avy  in  a  sauce-cup. 

Louis  Marche,  Chef  of  Burnet  House,  Cincinnati,  Ohio. 

DRESSING  FOR  PO'ULTRY. 

1  loaf  of  bread,  1  quart  of  milk, 

5  eggs,  3  onions, 

1  teaspoonful  of  sweet  marjoram. 
Pepper,  salt  and  a  little  thyme,  two  ounces  of  butter  and  hashed  parsley;  soak 
the  bread,  after  having  removed  all  the  crust,  in  cold  milk;  when  soft,  press 
out  the  milk,  add  the  eggs,  salt  and  pepper  to  suit  the  taste,  also  marjoram, 
thyme,  butter,  parsley  and  the  onions,  grated,  then  the  dressing  will  be  ready 
for  use. 

N.  B. — Hot  water,  or  warm  water  or  milli  must  never  be  used  for  dressing, 
as  it  makes  it  soaliy. 

Eugene  Stuyvesant  Howard,  Member  of  the    Universal   Cookery  and  Food  Associ- 
ation, London,  England,  and  Chef  de  Cuisine,  Louisville  Hotel. 


POULTRY    AND    GAME. 


81 


BOILED  CHICKEN,  WITH  CAPER  SAUCE. 

^t'loet  a  ohk-ki-u  ol"  jiood  size,  stuff  and  truss,  dredge  it  thk-kly  with  flour,  put 
it  into  a  pot,  with  just  oiiouf;li  water  to  cover,  and  add  one  fourtli  of  a  cupful 
of  rice;  cover  the  pot  closely,  and  set  it  over  the  lire  to  simmer  until  the  ehickeu 
is  tender;  serve  with  caper  .sauce. 

BKOILED  SPRING  CHICKEN. 

Split,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  rub  all  over  with  butter;  pinion  the 
l(>gs  to  the  side,  place  on  a  gridiron  over  a  hot  fire,  with  the  inside  of  the  chicken 
down;  turn  often;  when  a  nice  brown,  dish,  pour  over  it  melted  butter,  and 
sprinkle  with  pounded  crackers;  serve  with  broiled  tomatoes. 

CHICKEN   AU    EEVEIL. 

1'ake  a  nice  cleansed  cliicken,  truss  it  for  boilinj;-,  rub  it  well  with  lemon- 
juice  and  sprinkle  it  with  salt,  place  a  strip  of  fat  bacon  on  the  breast,  and  tie 
the  bird  up  in  a  piece  of  buttered  muslin,  then  put  it  into  a  stew-pan,  with  two 
or  three  sliced  onions,  one  carrot,  one  turnip  and  a  strip  or  two  of  celery;  cover 
with  light  stock  or  water  that  is  seasoned  with  lemon-juice  and  salt;  bring  this 


to  a  boil,  and  simmer  gently  for  one  hour;  then  take  up  the  bird,  remove  the 
muslin  and  bacon,  and  dish  u])  the  chicken  on  a  puree  of  potato;  cover  witli 
cheese-cream  sauce,  arrange  some  little  tongues,  as  below,  around  the  chicken, 
as  shown  in  the  engraving,  and  garnish  each  end  of  the  dish  with  cooked  arti- 
choke bottoms  and  braised  onions;  ornament  the  top  of  the  bird  with  two  hatelet 
skewers,  and  serve  hot  for  a  remove  for  dinner  or  luncheon.  Turkey  or  pheasant 
can  be  served  in  the  same  AAay. 

Tongues  for  Chicken  au  Reveil.— Butter  some  little  tongue-molds,  sprinkle 
them  with  a  little  raw  chopped  parsley,  and  till  them  with  the  farce,  as  below, 
u.^ing  a  forcing-bag  and  small,  jilain  pipe  for  the  purpose;  stand  the  molds  in 
a  tin  on  a  fold  of  foolscap  paper,  surround  them  with  l)oiling  water  to  three 
parts  their  depth,  watch  the  water  reboil,  then  draw  the  pan  to  the  side  of  the 
stove,  and  let  the  contents  poach  for  fifteen  minutes;  then  turn  out  the  tongues, 
and  use  as  directed  above.  For  the  farce  take  one  half  pound  of  lean  cooked 
ham  or  tongue,  and  pound  it  until  smooth,  then  six  ounces  of  panard,  with  one 
large  tablespoontul  of  thick  bechamel  sauce,  one  ounce  of  butter,  a  dust  of 
cajenne,  a  fe\\  drops  of  carmine  and  one  lai'ge  tablespoontul  of  sherry;  mix  in 
three  raw  eugs.  rub  through  a  wire  sieve,  and  use. 


82 


POULTRY   AND    GAME. 


CHICKEN  AU  RIZ,  WITH  RICE.  ' 

Take  about  four  ounces  of  rice  to  each  chicken;  clean  the  rice,  and  let  it  »oil 
for  forty-tive  minutes  in  some  consomme  (meat  jelly),  with  a  little  butter;  pre- 
pare the  chicken,  and  let  it  boil;  cook  the  rice  as  dry  as  possible,  moisten  it  with 
P'art  of  the  chicken  dressing,  and  thicken  with  one  yolk  of  egg  and  a  little 
butter;  place  the  rice  on  a  round  dish,  and  put  the  chicken,  cut  into  jiieces, 
above  it;  pour  over  the  rice  a  little  hot  gravy,  and  serve.  \ 

Louis  Marche,  Chef  of  Burnet  House,  Cincinnati,  Ohio. 


/ 


CHICKENS  A    LA    CHANCELIERE. 


Take  two  good  fat  chickens,  bone  them,  free  ihe  feet  from  the  top  skin,  and 
clip  the  nails  off,  and  press  them  into  tlie  leg  where  the  bone  has  been  taken 
from;  till  the  chickens  with  farce  (see  "Chicken  a  la  Viennoise"),  and  truss  them 
for  boiling,  making  them  as  nice  shape  as  possible;  place  a  piece  of  fat  bacon 
on  the  breast  of  each,  and  tie  them  up  in  a  well-buttered  cloth;  put  into  a  stew- 
pan  the  bones  from  the  birds,  the  liquor  and  beards  from  the  oysters  used  in 
the  preparation  of  the  farce,  some  vegetables,  such  as  carrots,  onions,  celery, 


leek,  thyme,  parsley  and  bay-leaf,  two  blades  of  mace,  a  little  salt  and  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  peppercorns;  place  the  poulai-des  on  this,  and  cover  with  light  stock 
or  water;  put  the  pan  on  the  stove,  just  bring  the  contents  to  a  boil,  skim  it, 
and  let  it  simmer  very  slowly  for  from  one  and  one  fourth  to  one  and  one  half 
houi's;  take  up,  put  aAvay  until  cold,  then  remove  the  cloths  and  bacon,  and  mask 
one  side  of  each  poularde  with  tongue  puree  (see  recipe),  and  the  other  side  with 
aspic  cream:  take  some  prettily  cut  shapes  of  truffle,  and  ornament  the  breasts 
of  the  birds  with  them,  using  a  little  liquid  aspic  jelly  to  keep  the  garnish  in  its 
place;  then  coat  over  the  truffle  with  a  little  more  of  the  jelly,  to  give  it  a  glazed 
appearance.  I'lace  in  the  center  of  the  dish  in  which  the  poulardes  are  to  be 
served  a  block  of  boiled  rice  and  some  finely  chopped  aspic  jelly;  arrange  the 
poulardes  as  shown  in  the  engraving;  place  a  hatelet  skewer  in  the  center  of  the 
rice,  garnish  the  back  and  front  of  the  rice  block  with  financiere  garnish,  and 
arrange  around  the  base  of  the  dish  some  tomatoes  and  little  timbals  of  pate  de 
foie  gras,  and  serve  for  a  ball  supper  or  luncheon  dish.  The  stock  left  from  the 
braising  of  the  poulardes  will  make  excellent  soup. 


Poultry  and  game. 


83 


CHICKEN   SAUTE,  WITH   TOMATOES. 

Cut  one  ehic'kou  into  small  pieces;  put  into  a  stew-pan  a  morsel  of  butter,  and 
let  ii  become  hot;  put  in  the  chicken,  the  side  with  sivin  undermost,  season,  and 
cook  over  a  hot  fire,  turning  tlie  pieces  of  chicken  from  time  to  time;  cut  some 
nice  tomatoes  into  halves,  removing  the  juice  and  pips,  mince,  and  put  them 
into  warm  oil;  after  they  have  been  dried,  add  thi-m  to  the  cliicken,  with  a 
liltle  pinch  of  cliopped  garlic;  moisten  the  Avliole  with  one  glassful  of  white  wine, 
cover  the  stew-pan,  and  cook  for  thirty  minutes;  add  a  little  meat  jelly,  and 
sprinkle  with  chopped  parsley;  let  it  boil  a  few  minutes;  season  and  dress, 
heaping  to  a  point  upon  a  round  serving-dish,  and  serve. 
Louis  Marche,  Chef  of  Burnet  House,  Cincinnati,  Oliio. 

SALMIS  OF  CHICKEN  A  LA   REGENCE. 

'i'ake  any  nice  j)ieces  of  cold  cooked  fowl  (that  left  from  a  previous  meal  could 
be  used  for  the  purpose),  cut  them  into  neat  sliapes,  removing  the  skin  and  any 
untidy  pieces,  then  put  them  into  a  good  salmis  sauce  colored  with  a  few  drops 
of  carmine;  make  them  quite  hot  in  the  bain-marie,  dish  tliem  on  a  border,  as 


below,  and  garnish  \vith  little  croustades;  pour  some  of  the  sauce  prepared  for 
the  salmis  around  the  base  of  the  dish.  Serve  at  once  for  an  entree  for  a  dinner 
party. 

Ckoustades  for  Salmis  of  Chicken  a  la  IIegence.— Take  one  fourth  of  a 
pound  of  fine  tlour,  two  ounces  of  butter,  and  rub  together  until  smooth,  season 
witli  salt  and  pepper;  mix  with  one  whole  egg  and  a  little  cold  water  into  a 
suiooth  paste;  then  roll  it  out  thinly  and  line  some  little  molds  with  it;  then  line 
the  paste  with  buttered  paper,  and  fill  up  with  raw  rice,  and  bake  for  fifteen 
to  twenty  minutes;  stamp  out  some  small  rings  from  the  same  paste  to  garnish, 
and  bake  until  a  pale  golden  color,  then  remove  the  croustades  from  the  molds, 
and  fill  them  up  Avith  red  and  white  garnisliing  quenelles  and  pieces  of  cut 
trutfies  and  cooked  button  muslu'ooms  and  financiere  that  liave  all  been  mixed 
witli  a  little  thin  creamy  veloute  sauce;  place  four  of  the  rings  on  each,  and  use. 

Border  for  Salmis  of  Chicken  a  la  Regence.— Butter  a  Breton  border- 
mold,  and  garnish  it  Avith  rings  of  boiled  Naples  macaroni  (see  "SAveetbread  a 
rimperatrice"),  then  Avith  a  forcing-bag  and  plain  pipe  fill  up  the  mold  Avith  a 
farce  of  chicken,  knock  the  mold  on  the  table  so  that  the  mixture  sinks  well 
into  the  shape,  then  put  it  into  a  steAv-pan  on  a  fold  of  paper;  cover  it  with 
boiling  water,  watch  the  water  reboil,  tlien  draAV  tlie  pan  aside,  and  poach  for 
fifteen  minutes;  turn  out,  and  use. 


84 


POULTRY   AND   GAME. 


LITTLE  CHICKEN   CREAMS  A   LA  FRANCILLON. 

lake  oue  half  pound  of  raw  chickeu,  aud  pouud  it  until  smooth;  then  pound 
two  ounces  of  panard  with  two  tablespooufuls  of  thielc  bechamel  sauce  and 
oue  ounce  of  butter,  add  a  piuch  of  salt  aud  white  pepper,  then  mix  into  the 
pounded  chicken  until  quite  sniootli;  AA'ork  in  two  whole  eggs;  pass  through  a 
fine  wire  sieve  or  coarse  hair-sieve,  and  add  oue  large  tablespoonful  of  thiclv 
cream.  Butter  the  egg-molds  all  over  both  parts,  aud  ornament  tliem  with  cucum- 
ber (cut  into  pea-shapes)  or  peas,  fill  up  the  molds  with  the  mixture,  using  a 
forcing-bag  and  plain  pipe  for  tlie  purpose;  make  a  well  in  the  center  by  dipping 
the  linger  into  a  little  hot  water,  aud  working  it  around  until  the  space  is  formed; 
fill  this  up  with  cooked  asparagus  peas  (see  recipe)  and  a  little  thick  creamy 
veloute  sauce;  join  up  the  two  parts  of  the  molds,  and  poach  them  for  about 
fifteeu  minutes  in  a  steAV-pau  containing  boiliug  water,  resting  each  egg-mold 


in  a  dariol  to  keep  it  upright;  turn  out  the  molds,  dish  them  on  a  border  of 
potato  or  farce  prepared  in  a  piccolo-mold,  pour  veloute  sauce  around  them,  and 
garnish  with  cooked  peas,  cucumber  or  asparagus  points. 


CHICKEN  IN  ASPIC. 

Boil  a  three-pound  chickeu  carefidly  until  tender;  remove  the  meat,  crack 

the  bones,  and  retiu-n  them  to  the  water  in  which  the  chicken  was  cooked;  add 

one  onion,  foiu"  claves,  a  blade  of  mace,  a  bay-leaf;  simmer  gently  for  tAvo  hours, 

strain,  and  turn  out  to  cool;  when  cool,  remove  all  fat  from  the  surface,  turn 

out  the  jelly,  and  remove  the  sediment  from  the  bottom.     If  the  jellj-  is  not 

sufficiently  thiclv,  add  one  fourth  of  an  ounce  of  gelatin  to  it.  and  relieat;  color 

with  a  teaspoonful  of  caramel,  season  AAith  salt  and  red  pepper;  cut  the  chicken 

into  blocks  half  an  inch  square,  the  same  as  for  salad;  put  a  layer  of  gelatin  in 

the  bottom  of  the  mold;  when  hard,  put  in  the  cliicken,  layer  of  celery,  aud 

seasoning  of  salt  and  pepper,  then  another  layer  of  gelatin,  Avhich  must  be  cool, 

bur  not  thick;  so  continue  until  you  haA^e  used  all  the  chicken;  cover  the  whole 

Avith  the  liquid  jelly,  and  stand  aAA'ay  until  perfectly  cold;  when  ready  to  serve, 

turn  tliis  mold  out  on  a  bed  of  AA-ater-cress  or  letiuce,  or  both;  garnish  it  with 

finely  chopped,  hard-boiled  eggs,  first  a  roAV  of  Avliites,  and  then  a  row  of  yoUvS. 

aud  then  serAe  it   Avith  a  boAAd  of  mayonnaise   dressing.     Stoned   olives   and 

radishes  may  also  be  used  as  a  garnish.     This  makes  a  much  handsomer  dish 

than  plain  salad,  and  is  a  very  nice  dish  for  evening  parties  and  card  pax'ties. 

Mrs.  S.  T.  Rorer,  author  of  "Mrs.  Rorer's  Cook  Book,"  and  Principal  of  Philadelphia 
Cooking  School,  Philadelphia,  Pennsylvania. 


POtTLTRY  AND   GAME.  85 

CURRIED  CHICKEN   A    LA    MARIE. 

Cut  up  a  small  picked  ;iiul  clcaiistHl  chicken  into  neat  joints,  usinj?  only  the 
best  parts.  Take  four  or  five  lari^e  peeled  onions,  cut  them  into  very  tine  slices, 
and  jiut  tliein  into  a  stew-pan,  with  two  oinices  of  butter,  a  s])vi'^  of  thyme  and 
bay-leaf,  and  try  on  the  stove  until  a  pale  ydlden  color;  then  add  one  table- 
spoonful  of  cuny-powder,  a  pinch  of  salt,  one  ounce  of  f;()od  .ulaze,  one  and  one 
half  ounces  of  fine  floiu-;  mix  with  these  one  and  one  half  pints  of  new  milk, 
add  the  joints  of  chicken,  then  put  on  the  stove  and  stir  until  boilinjr,  and 
simmer  nently  for  about  one  liour,  during  which  time  .stir  the  curry  frequently 
to  prevent  it  burning;  when  cooked,  take  up  the  joints  and  set  aside  until  cold; 
then  add  to  the  contents  of  the  pan  the  strained  juice  of  one  lemon,  one  fourth 
of  a  jiint  of  thick  cream,  and  dissolve  in  it  one  fourth  of  an  ounce  of  gelatin; 
reboil,  and  rub  through  a  tammy  or  very  fine  hair-sieve,  getting  as  much  of  the 
pni-ee  through  as  possible,  then  stir  on  ice  until  beginning  to  .set,  and  with  it 
mask  file  pieces  of  tlie  bird  that  have  been  freed  fron)  skin;  set  the  pieces  on  a 
baking-tin  tliat  is  standing  on  crushed  ice,  and  mask  over  with  a  little  cool  aspic 
jelly,  dish  up  in  a  pile,  and  garnish  here  and  there  with  finely  chopped  aspic 
jelly,  and  form  a  border  around  the  chiekeu  with  some  plainly  boiled  cold  ciu*ry- 
rice  and  farced  olives,  si)rinkling  the  rice  at  intervals  with  a  little  lobster  coral 
or  coralline  pep])er  and  finely  chopped  raw  parsley.  Serve  for  a  cold  entree,  ball 
supper,  etc.    The  remains  of  the  chicken  can  be  used  up  for  stock,  etc. 

STEWED  CHICKEN  (VIRGINIA  STYLE). 

Disjoint  one  chicken,  put  into  a  saiicei)an,  cover  with  water  or  white  stock, 
add  one  teaspoonful  of  whole  wliite  pepper,  four  cloves,  one  blade  of  mace  and 
two  small  onions  all  tied  up  in  a  clotli;  let  simmer  slowly  for  one  hour,  then 
remove  the  spices;  put  into  another  saucepan  tAvo  ounces  each  of  butter  and 
fiour,  stir  well,  and  add  the  broth  of  the  chicken,  stirring  lively;  when  thick, 
add  the  chicken,  season  to  taste,  add  corn  dumplings  made  as  below,  and  serve. 

Cor.N  Dt;op  Dumplings  fcr  Stewfd  Chicken  (Vihoinia  Style).— Take  one 

tin  of  corn,  chop  it  veiy  fine  or  run  it  through  a  meat-cutter,  add  three  eggs,  a 

liitle  flour,  and  salt  and  pei)i)er  to  suit  the  taste;  drop  this  paste  from  a  teasi>oon 

into  a  pot  of  boiling  Avater,  and  boil  for  ten  minutes,  then  lift  the  dumplings 

out  of  the  water,  and  serve  with  the  stewed  chicken.    When  fresh  corn  is  in  the 

market,  it  may  be  grated  and  used  instead  of  the  tinned  article. 

Eusjene  Stuyvesiuit.  Hovvnrd,  member  of  tlie  Universfil  Cookery  and  I<ood  A.ssociation, 
•  London,  England,  and  Ctief  de  Ciiixine,  Louisville  Hotel. 

BOILED  CHICKEN,  WITH  EGG  SAUCE. 

Stuff  a  large,  plump  chicken  with  bread-crumbs  seasoned  with  pepp(>r,  salt 
and  thyme,  tie  a  buttered  paper  around  it,  put  it  into  a  kettle  of  warm  water, 
and  cover  closely;  when  done,  take  up  the  chicken,  and  make  a  sauce  of  one 
cupful  of  the  chicken  liquor,  thicken  with  one  tablespoonful  of  butter  rolled  in 
flour,  poured  over  two  beaten  eggs;  boil  for  one  minute,  with  one  tablesi)oonful 
of  chopped  parsley,  season,  and  pour  over  the  yolks  of  ten  hard-boiled  eggs  which 
have  been  pound(Hl  and  placed  in  the  bottom  of  ihe  bowl;  stir,  and  serve  with  the 
chicken. 


86 


POULTRY   AND   GAME. 


KOAST  CHICKEN. 
Procure  a  uiee,  plump  chickeu  Aveigiiiug  about  two  and  oue  halt'  pounds, 
singe,  draw,  and  wash  it  in  cold  water,  wipe  with  a  dry  towel,  cut  off  the  feet 
from  the  joint  of  the  leg,  make  an  incision  just  under  the  thigh,  and  insert 
the  legs  inside;  detach  the  skin  as  much  as  possible  from  the  breast,  and  put 
a  lajer  of  forcemeat  over  the  breast  under  tlie  loosened  skin,  and  fill  the 
body  with  the  same  forcemeat;  sew  the  chickeu  up,  truss  it  nicely,  rub  over  it 
one  even  tablespoonful  of  salt,  spread  over  it  oue  even  tablespoouful  of  butter, 
and  lay  a  few  thin  slices  of  larding-pork  over  the  breast;  place  it  in  a  roasting- 
pan,  add  one  cupful  of  boiling  Avater;  place  it  in  a  hot  oven,  baste  frequently, 
and  roast  until  done,  which  Avili  take  about  one  hour  if  the  chicken  is  young. 
Place  the  feet,  giblets  and  neck  in  a  saucepan,  cover  Avith  cold  Avater,  add  one 
onion,  one  eA^en  teaspoouful  of  salt,  and  boil  until  tender.  Fifteen  minutes 
before  serving,  remoA'-e  the  boiled  liA^er  and  rub  it  fine.  Transfer  the  chickeu 
to  a  hot  dish,  take  out  the  threads,  and  place  the  chicken  in  a  Avarm  place. 
Remove  the  fat  from  the  gravy,  mix  oue  half  tablespoonful  of  corn-starch  AAith 
oue  half  cupful  of  cold  Avater,  add  it  to  the  gravy,  let  it  cook  for  a  few  minutes, 
and  add  sufficient  giblet  broth  to  make  a  creamy  sauce;  strain  it  through  a 
sieve,  add  the  fine  rubbed  liver,  and  serve  in  a  sauciere  with  the  chicken. 

Mrs.  Gesine  Lemcke,  Principal  German-American  Cooking  College,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 

CREAM  OF  CHICKEN  A  L'OEUF. 
Take  one  pound  of  raAv  chicken,  free  it  from  skin  and  bone,  and  pound  it 
until  smooth;  mix  AVith  it  four  tablespooufuls  of  bechamel  sauce,  and  take  from 
the  mortar.  Then  pound  one  lialf  pound  of  panard  AAith  oue  and  one  half  ounces 


of  butter,  a  salt-spoonful  of  salt  and  a  tiny  dust  of  wliite  pepper,  and  add  it  to 
the  meat;  mix  iuto  it  four  Avhole  raw  eggs  and  three  tablespooufuls  of  cream, 
and  rub  all  together  tlirough  a  coarse  hair  or  fine  Avire  sieve,  and  put  the 
mixture  into  a  well-buttered  egg-mold  that  is  ornamented  Avith  cut  trufile;  tie 
up  the  mold  Avith  tape  or  string,  put  it  iuto  a  stcAV-pan  on  a  fold  of  paper,  cover 
Avith  boiling  Avater;  watch  the  Avater  reboil,  then  draAv  the  pan  to  the  side  of 
the  stove,  and  let  the  contents  poach  for  three  fourths  of  an  hour;  then  take  up, 
remove  the  tape,  tui'u  out  the  cream,  and  dish  up  on  a  s(iuare  crouton  of  bread 
that  is  masked  with  supreme  sauce,  garnish  AA'ith  skewers  with  large  truflles 
and  cockscombs  on  them,  and  serve  AAith  supreme  sauce  around  the  base  for  an 
entree  for  dinner  or  luncheon.  The  above-given  quantities  will  be  found  suffic- 
ient for  ten  to  tAA'olA^e  people. 


POULTRY    AND    GAME. 


87 


CHICKEN  I'lE. 

Mix  a  cnist  with  sweet  milk,  aiul  shorten  with  butter;  line  tlie  sides  (not  tlie 
bottom)  of  a  milli-pau;  liave  a  young  chicken  cut  up,  and  one  (luart  of  potatoes 
peeled,  sliced  and  about  an  inch  tlack;  place  a  layer  each  of  chicken,  potatoes 
and  dough  cut  into  small  strips;  add  pepi)er,  salt,  l)utter  and  some  small  bits  of 
pickled  pork;  continue  tliese  layers  until  the  pan  is  full;  to  this  add  one  pint  of 
cold  water;  put  on  tlie  upper  crust,  with  a  hole  cut  in  it;  after  cooking  awhile, 
add  two  pints  of  hot  water;  cook  for  one  hour  in  a  moderate  oven. 
Mrs.  James  Gladrten,  Stockwell,  Indiana. 

TURBAN  OF  CHICKEN  A   LA   VENITIENNE. 

Butter  a  turban-mold  well,  and  fill  it  Avith  savory  farce,  as  below,  and  let  it 
steam  for  about  twenty  minutes,  then  turn  it  out  onto  a  cake-bottom  that  is 
masked  over  lightly  witli  Avhite  farce,  as  below;  mask  the  .«avory  farce  all  over 
with  a  thin  layer  of  the  white  farce,  and  arrange  all  around  this  the  breast 
fillets  of  a  raw  chicken  (tliat  have  been  sliced  and  larded),  fastening  these  fillets 
onto  the  turl)an  Avith  a  little  of  the  Aviiite  meat  farce,  using  a  forcing-ljag  and 
pipe  for  the  purpose;  then  garnish  witli  little  rounds  of  cut  tongue  and  truttle. 


sticking  these  with  farce;  i)lace  a  buttered  paper  around  the  turban,  and  put  it 
into  tlie  oven  to  coolv  for  about  twenty  minutes,  with  a  paper  on  the  top,  and  a 
few  very  thin  .'■lices  of  fat  bacon  to  keep  the  fillets  moist;  disli  up,  remove  the 
pa])er  band,  and  serve  witli  veloute  sauce,  round  and  braised  olives  in  the  center, 
with  cockscouibs  that  liave  l)eeu  warmed  in  tlieir  own  liquor.  This  will  be 
enough  for  tAvelve  persons.    Tlie  cockscombs  are  kept  in  bottles  ready  for  use. 

Savory  Farce  for  Turba.n  of  Chicken  a  i.a  Venitienne.— Pound  one  half 
pound  of  raAv  Avhite  meat,  and  rub  it  throrigh  a  sieA'e,  then  mix  with  it  two 
ounces  of  chopped  cooked  tongue  or  ham  and  two  or  tliree  cooked  chicken  livers 
that  haA'e  also  been  passed  through  a  sieve;  add  a  salt-spoonful  of  mignonette 
pepper  and  salt,  a  dust  of  pepper,  one  half  of  a  finely  chopped  shallot,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  cho])ped  olives,  the  same  of  button  mushrooms,  one  tal)lespoonful  of 
thick  bechamel  sauce,  an'd  two  raAv  jolks  of  eggs;  mix  all,  and  put  iato  the 
buttered  mold  by  means  of  a  forcing-bag  and  pipe. 

"White  Farce  for  Masking  Tx^rban  of  CiircKEN  a  la  Venitienne.— Pound 
six  ounces  of  chicken,  rabbit  or  A'eal  until  smootli,  then  pound  six  ounces  of 
panard,  and  mix;  add  two  and  one  lialf  small  or  tAvo  large  eggs,  a  pincli  of  .salt 
and  Avhite  pepper  and  one  ounce  of  l)utter;  then  pass  through  the  sieve. 


08  POULTRY    AND    GAME. 

PRESSED  CHICKEN. 

Cut  up  the  fowls,  and  put  into  a  kettle  with  a  tight  cover,  so  as  to  retain 
the  steam;  put  about  two  teacupfuls  of  water  and  plenty  of  salt  and  pepper 
over  the  chiolien,  then  let  it  cook  until  the  meat  cleaves  easily  from  the  bones; 
cut  or  cliop  all  the  meat  (freed  from  skin,  bone  and  gristle)  about  as  for  chicken 
sjilad;  season  well,  put  into  a  disii,  and  pour  over  it  the  remnant  of  the  juice  in 
which  it  was  cooked;  this  will  jelly  when  cold,  and  can  be  sliced  or  set  on  the 
table  in  shape.  Nice  for  tea  or  lunch.  The  knack  of  making  this  simple  dish  is 
in  not  having  too  much  water;  it  AA'ill  not  jelly  if  too  weak,  or  if  the  water  is 
allowed  to  boil  away  entirely  wliile  cooking. 

CHICKEN   CUTLETS   a   LA   REINE. 

Butter  some  cutlet-molds,  and  arrange  in  tliem  alternate  layers  of  cooked 
breast  of  chiclven  and  tongue  (or  ham),  stamping  out  the  pieces  with  a  cutter 
the  same  shape  and  size  as  the  mold;  fill  up  the  molds  with  a  cream  of  chicken, 
as  below;  place  them  on  a  baking-tin,  surround  them  with  enough  water  to 
cover  the  bottoms,  place  a  buttered  paper  on  tlie  top,  and  coolv  in  a  moderate 
oven  for  fifteen  minutes;  then  turn  out  the  cutlets  on  a  border  of  potato,  and 
mask  them   with   supreme   sauce;  then   garnish   each   cutlet   with   a  piece   of 


stamped-out  truffle  in  any  pretty  design;  serve  peas  in  the  center,  and  with  a 
puree  of  cooked  lean  liani  or  tongue  form  a  little  rose  on  tlie  top  of  each  cutlet, 
using  a  forcing  bag  witli  a  small  rose-pipe  for  it;  pour  supreme  or  veloute  sauce 
around  tlie  dish,  and  use  as  a  dinner  party  entree. 

Chicken  Ceeam  for  Chicken  Cxttlets  a  la  Reine.— Take  the  meat  from  the 
legs  of  a  fowl,  remove  the  slcin  and  bone,  and  pound  vintil  smootli,  then  mix  with 
it  one  large  tablespoonful  of  tliick  bechamel  sauce  and  raw  whites  of  three  eggs, 
season  -\^ith  salt  and  pepper  and  one  tablespoonful  of  cream;  rub  through  a  fine 
wire  sieve,  add  a  wine-glassful  of  sherry,  and  use. 

Chicken  fok  Chicken  Cutlets  a  la  Reine. — Remove  the  breast  fillets  from 
a  fowl,  freeing  it  from  skin,  place  them  on  a  buttered  baking-tin,  sprinkle  with 
lemon-juice  and  salt;  put  a  buttered  paper  on  the  top,  and  cook  in  a  moderate 
oven  for  ten  to  twelve  minutes;  put  into  press  until  cold,  and  then  cut  into  very 
thin  slices,  and  stamp  out  as  above. 

TONC4UE  Puree  for  Cutlets  a  la  Reine. — Pound  one  fourth  of  a  pound  of 
cooked  tongue  or  ham  until  smooth,  Avith  one  tablespoonful  of  thick  bechamel 
sauce,  a  dust  of  pepper,  two  yolks  of  hard-boiled  eggs;  then  rub  through  a  sieve, 
and  use. 


Poultry  and  gamr. 


89 


CHICKEN  LIVERS,  WITH  MADEIRA. 

12  cliickon  livers.  14  cupful  of  Madeira, 

1  tal)les[)(j<)nful  of  flour,  21  stoned  olives, 

1  taMespoouful  of  butter,  %  cujjful  of  brown  stock. 

Wash  and  wipe  dry  ilie  livers,  cut  them  into  <iuarters,  put  into  a  chafing-dish, 
add  the  butter,  cover,  and  cook  for  five  minutes;  add  the  flour,  and  stir  xintil 
well  blended,  add  the  stock,  and  stir  until  smooth  and  thick;  if  not  dark  enou,t;li, 
add  u  little  caramel;  add  the  Madeira,  and  season  with  salt  and  cayenne.  If  the 
seasoninj;-  is  nddcHl  before  the  wine,  very  little  must  l)e  used,  as  wine  intensifies 
the  flavor  of  s;jlt.  Turn  in  the  olives,  slip  a  hot-water  pan  underneath,  cover, 
and  simmer  for  ten  minutes. 

Miss  Cornelia  Campbell  Bedford,  Superintendent  New  York  Cooking  School,  New  York. 

CHICKEN   A    LA   EUBANEE. 
Take  a  roast  fowl,  cut  it  into  neat  pieces,  remove  the  skin  from  it,  then  put 
it  into  a  saute-pan;  cover  it  over  with  rubanee  sauce,  and  simmer  for  about 
fifteen  minutes;  then  dish  Tip  in  a  pile,  pour  the  remaining  sauce  over,  and 


garnish  here  and  there  with  prettilj^  cut  croutons.  Serve  for  an  entree  for  dinner 
or  luncheon.  Pheasant  or  partridge  can  be  used  in  the  same  way,  and  any  cold 
bird  can  be  used  up  similarly. 

SCALLOrED  CHICKEN. 

Roil  a  chicken  whole  in  salted  water  until  very  tender;  when  cold,  pull  off 
the  skin,  cut  the  best  meat,  light  and  dark,  into  small  bits,  making  one  pint. 
1  pint  of  fresh  bread-crumbs,  1  heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter, 

1  cupful  of  rich  cream,  1  tablespoonful  of  corn-starch, 

1  cupful  of  milk,  1  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Yo  canful  of  sliced  mushrooms,  14  teaspoonful  of  white  pepi)er. 
Melt  the  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  the  corn-starch,  stirring  constantly  to 
prevent  burning,  add  the  milk  gradually,  and  cook  five  minutes,  then  add  the 
ci'eam,  salt  and  pepper.  Butter  .1  baking-dish,  pom-  in  a  layer  of  the  sauce, 
then  a  layer  of  bread-crumbs,  then  chicken,  then  nmshrooms,  so  on  until  all  are 
used,  the  sauce  last.  Reserve  one  half  cupful  of  the  bread-crumbs,  add  melted 
butter  until  very  moist;  cover 'the  top  with  these,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  until 
a  rich  brov.'n— about  twentj  minutes.  If  desired,  a  little  pepper  may  be  sprinkled 
on  the  top  crumbs. 

Miss  Emily  E.  Squire,  Author  of  "  Woronoco  Women's  Wisdom,"   Westfleld,  Mass. 


90 


POULTRY  AKD    GAME. 


SMOTHERED  CHICKEN. 

Take  two  nice,  well-dressed  eliickeus,  cut  them  open  at  the  back,  place  them 
in  a  deep  pau,  aud  season  well  with  salt  and  pepper,  then  sift  on  flour  enough  to 
almost  cover  them;  slice  one  tomato,  lay  it  upon  the  chickens,  spread  on  them 
one  cupful  of  mixed  butter  and  lard,  and  pour  over  them  tAvo  or  three  pints  of 
boiling-  water;  set  in  the  oven,  aud  Avith  a  deep  pau  coA^er  them  closely  to  keep 
in  all  the  steam;  when  tender,  remove  the  cover,  aud  let  them  brown  slightly, 
thou  they  are  ready  for  the  table. 

Mrs.  J.  T..  Dublin  Depot,  Virginia. 

CHICKEN  DORMERS. 

I'ake  some  liard-boiled  fresh  eggs,  remove  the  shells,  and  dry  the  eggs  in  a 
clean  soft  cloth,  then  cut  each  into  halves  leugthAvise.  usiug  a  hot,  wet  knife  for 
the  i>urpose;  take  out  the  entire  yolk  aud  some  of  the  Avhite.  so  as  to  form  little 
cases;  fill  up  these  spaces  by  means  of  a  forcing-bag  and  i)laiu  pipe  with  a, 
ragout,  as  below;  smooth  over  the  top  Avith  a  hot,  Avet  kuife,  aud  set  them  aside 
until  cold;  then  tlour  them  and  dip  into  whole  raAA-  beaten-up  egg,  and  into 
freshly  made  white  bread-crumbs  tAvice;  place  in  a  frying-basket,  and  plunge 


them  into  clean  boiling  fat,  and  fry  until  a  uice  golden  color;  then  dish  up  on  a 
fiat  dish,  as  sIioaaui,  for  ball  supper,  etc. 

llAGOtTT  FOR  Chicken  Doeaiers. — Put  into  a  stcAv-pan  two  ounces  of  butter 
and  two  ounces  of  fiue  flour,  and  fry  together  without  broAA-ning;  then  mix  with 
it  one  half  pint  of  light, good-flavored  stoclv  or  uoaa-  milk;  stir  until  boiling, season 
with  a  little  salt  and  pepper,  and  mix  AAith  it  two  raAV  yolks  of  eggs;  stir  again 
over  the  fire  until  the  sauce  thickens,  but  do  not  let  it  boil,  and  wriug  it  through 
a  ch^au  tammy-cloth;  mix  with  it  four  tablespoonfuls  of  finely  minced  chicken 
or  other  white  meat,  four  yolks  of  hard-boiled  eggs  that  have  been  rubbed 
through  a  sieA'e,  one  tablespoonful  of  lean  coolvcd  ham  or  tongue,  one  teaspoonful 
of  finely  chopped  raw  green  parsley,  one  finely  chopped  shallot  and  the  strained 
juice  of  a  lemon;  mix  all,  and  use  as  directed.  Snthcient  for  fourteen  to  sixteen 
dormers. 

PEPITORIA. 

Cut  into  pieces  some  boiled  chicken,  mix  with  spices,  garlic,  hops,  onions 

and  parsley,  add  a  little  of  the  chicken  stock,  let  it  come  to  a  boil;  make  the 

sauce  AA'ith  this  stock,  that  is.  thicken  it  with  butter  aud  flour,  add  one  or  more 

slices  of  hard-boiled  egg.  aud  serve. 

Gustave  Beraud,  Chef  of  Calumet  Club,  Chicago,  Illinois,  formerly  Chef  of  William 
Astor,  New  York. 


POULTRY    AND    GAMP]. 


91 


LITTI.E  CHICKENS  A    L'IMPERIALE. 

liiphtly  butter  some  small  fhit-ken-mokls,  and  by  means  of  a  forcing-bag 
with  a  large,  plain  pipe  till  them  with  farce,  malie  a  well  in  the  center  of  each, 
and  nearly  fill  these  spaces  with  a  puree  of  chicken,  as  below,  then  cover  this 
o^er  with  a  little  ujore  of  the  farce  that  was  used  for  lining  the  molds,  and 
smooth  over  the  tops  with  a  hot,  wet  knife;  put  a  fold  of  paper  into  a  saute-pau, 
place  tlie  molds  on  this,  cover  them  completely  with  boiling  water;  place  tlie  pan 
on  the  stove,  watcli  tlie  water  reboil,  i)l:ice  a  buttered  paper  over  the  molds,  put 
the  cover  on  the  pan.  and  let  the  contents  steam  for  about  fifteen  minutes;  wlien 
cooked,  turn  the  molds  onto  a  clean  cloth.  Arrange  a  fried  crouton  of  bread 
in  the  center  of  a  border  of  potatoes  on  an  entree-dish,  stand  the  chickens 
upright  on  this,  resting  them  against  the  crouton,  mask  them  carefully  with  a 


good  creamy  supreme  sauce,  and  by  means  of  a  forcing-bag  with  a  large  rose- 
pipe  force  a  little  puree  of  green  peas  between  each  chicken;  arrange  at  the  top 
little  stamped-out  roimds  of  ox-tongue  about  one  eighth  of  an  inch  thick  and  one 
half  of  an  inch  in  diameter  that  have  been  warmed  in  a  little  sherry  between 
two  plates;  arrange  some  financiere  on  a  hatelet  skewer,  and  stick  this  in  the 
center  of  the  croutons;  serve  supreme  sauce  around  the  base  and  over  the 
chickens;  place  a  round  of  cooked  tongue  on  the  top  between  each  chicken,  and 
serve. 

Puree  for  Little  Cjiickens  a  l'Imperiale.— Take,  for  eiglit  to  ten  molds, 
six  ounces  of  raw  chicken,  fi*ee  it  from  skin  and  bone,  and  pound  it  until  smooth, 
rub  through  a  fine  sieve,  then  mix  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  thick  cream,  a 
pinch  of  salt,  a  dust  of  pepper;  mix  well,  put  into  a  forcing-bag  with  a  small, 
plain  pipe,  and  use. 

FRIED  CHICKEN. 

Clean  and  Avash  it  well,  and  with  a  sharp  knife  cut  it  open  in  the  back; 
dredge  with  flour,  pepper  and  salt.  Put  equal  quantities  of  butter  and  lard  into 
a  hot  frying-pan,  then  put  in  the  chicken,  and  keep  it  well  covered  until  brown 
on  both  sides.  The  seei'et  of  a  nice  fricassee  is  in  having  plenty  of  hot  lard 
or  butter. 

Iv.  H.  B;  I'ostville,  town, 


92 


POULTRY   AND    GAME. 


LITTLE  CHICKENS  A   LA   KENAISSANCE. 

Liiie  some  little  eJiicken-molds  very  tliiuly  with  aspic  jelly,  and  garnish  them 
with  trutfle  in  little  diamond  shapes  shraighl;  down  the  breast;  line  them  again 
thinly  with  white  chaudfroid  sauce,  and  again  with  a  puree  of  chicken  prepared 
as  below,  and  inside  this  puree  put  one  teaspoonful  of  the  ragout  of  lobster,  as 
below;  smooth  this  with  a  wet  knife,  and  then  cover  it  with  the  puree  of  chiclven; 
put  aside  on  ice  until  set,  then  dip  the  molds  into  hot  water,  and  turn  out  the 
little  chickens;  dish  them  on  a  border  of  rice  or  aspic  jelly,  place  a  wax  figure 
in  the  center  of  the  border,  fUlup  the  spaces  between  each  chicken  with  aspic 
jelly,  as  in  engraving,  and  garnisli  the  dish  Avith  lobster  butter,  and  olives 
prepared  as  below;  place  a  chiclven  and  four  olives  on  the  A^ax  cup  on  top  of 
the  figiu-e;  place  some  olive-colored  aspic  around  the  base  of  the  dish,  and 
garnish  with  little  sprigs  of  tarragon  and  chervil. 

I'LREE  OjF  CuiCKEiS'  FOR  CHICKENS  A  LA  RENAISSANCE.— PoUUd  three  foUrthS  of 

a  pound  of  cooked  chicken  or  Avhite  meat,  and  mix  it  with  one  half  pint  of  aspic 


jelly,  one  fourth  of  a  pint  of  thick  cream,  one  wine-glassful  of  sherry  and  a 
pinch  of  salt;  when  smooth,  pass  through  a  tammy  or  fine  sieve,  and  use. 

IiAGOUT  FOR  Chickens  a  i,a  Renaissancic. — Mix  one  fourth  of  a  pint  of  aspic 
jelly,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  chopped  lobster,  three  boned  anchovies  cut  into 
diamond  shapes,  three  chopped,  turned  olives,  one  teaspoonful  of  chopped  capers, 
a  pinch  of  chopped  tarragon  and  chervil,  one  tablespoonful  of  mayonnaise  sauce, 
a  few  drops  of  liquid  carmine  and  a  dust  of  pepper,  then  use. 

Olia^es  for  Chicken  'a  i.a  Eenaissance.— Turn  some  olives,  and  fill  them 
(by  means  of  a  forcing-bag  and  pipe)  Avith  the  mixture  used  for  the  little 
chickens;  line  some  liuted  dariols  Avith  olive-colored  aspic,  place  an  olive  in  each, 
set  Avith  aspic,  and  when  turned  out,  garnish  the  dish  as  described  above. 


STEAMED  CHICKEN. 
Rub  with  salt  and  pepper,  place  in  a  steamer,  and  steam  one  and  one  half 
hours;  when  done,  keep  hot.     Prepare  a  sauce  of  one  pint  of  gravy,  one  pint  of 
cream,  six  spoonfuls  of  flour,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  pepper,  salt  and  a  few 
drops  of  extract  of  celery. 


POULTRY  AND    GAME.  93 

CHICKEN  SAUTE. 

Disjoint  a  tender  chiclYen  after  siugeins  and  removius  the  pln-fi'atliers,  season 
■\vitli  salt  and  pepper,  roll  in  flour,  brown  in  salt-pork  fat,  and  put  into  a  stew- 
pan;  l)r()wu  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  add  one  tablespoonful  of  chopped 
onion,  and  fry  for  five  minutes,  then  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  and  brown; 
add  slowly  one  pint  of  milk  and  one  half  pint  of  white  stock,  and  season  with 
sal).  pepi)er  and  a  speck  of  cayenne;  pour  this  sauce  over  the  tliicken.  and  cook 
until  tender;  add  one  can  of  mushrooms,  cook  for  ten  minutes,  and  serve. 

Mrs.  Altbea  Soines,  Teacher  of  Cookery,  Manual  Training  School,  Boston,  Mass. 

CHICKEN  SAUTED  MASCOT. 

Divide  a  fine  chicken  into  pieces,  and  season  eaOh  one  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Have  a  stew-i)an.  and  in  it  put  four  spoonfuls  of  clarilied  butter;  when  very 
hot,  place  the  pieces  of  chicken  in,  one  by  one,  beginning?  witli  the  legs,  and 
wlien  well  browned  on  one  side,  turn  them  over,  tlu  n  put  the  pan,  imcovered, 
into  the  oven  for  ten  mintites.  Peel  six  fine,  fresh  tomatoes,  suppress  the  watery 
matter  and  soft  insides  until  only  the  thick  part  remains;  fry  them  in  butter, 
seasoning  well.  Have  also  two  green  peppers  cut  into  small  strips,  boil  them  for 
ten  minutes  in  salted  water,  drain  well,  and  then  stew  in  the  butter  the  same  as 
the  tomatoes;  mix,  and  let  stand  until  the  chicken  is  dressed.  The  pieces  of 
chicken  being  cooked,  drain  off  all  the  butter  and  substitute  a  glassful  of  brandy 
and  a  large  one  of  white  wine,  to  detach  the  glaze  from  the  bottom  of  the  sauce- 
pan; let  boil  a  few  minutes;  dress  the  chicken  into  a  dish,  pour  the  tomatoes 
and  peppers  over  the  chiclvcn,  gravy  over  all.  On  each  end  of  the  dish  arrange 
a  cluster  of  lozenge-shaped  potatoes  fried  in  clarified  butter. 

A.  Gallier,  President  "  Societe  Culinaire  de  New  York,"  and  Chef  of  Hotel  Brunswick, 
Fifth  Avenue,  New  York. 

TURKEY  SCALLOP. 

Pick  the  meat  from  the  bones  of  a  cold  cooked  turkey,  and  chop  it  fine;  put 
a  layer  of  bread-crumbs  on  the  bottom  of  a  buttered  pudding-dish,  moisten  them 
with  a  little  milk;  then  put  in  a  layer  of  turkey  with  some  of  the  cold  dressing, 
and  cut  small  pieces  of  butter  over  the  top;  sprinkle  with  pepper  and  salt,  then 
ai'other  layer  of  bread-crumbs,  and  so  on  until  the  dish  is  nearly  full;  add  a 
little  liot  water  to  the  gravy  left  from  the  turkey,  and  pour  over  it;  then  take 
t^^'o  eggs,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  milk,  one  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter,  a  little 
salt,  and  cracker-cruinbs  enough  to  spread  thick,  with  a  knife,  over  the  top  of  it 
all;  put  on  some  small  bits  of  butter,  and  cover  it  over  with  a  plate;  bake  three 
fourths  of  an  hour.  About  ten  iiiinutes  before  serving,  remove  the  plate,  and  let 
it  brown. 

ROAST  TURKEY.  WITH  OYSTERS. 

Clean  a  turkey,  and  lay  it  in  a  dripping-pan;  prepare  a  dressing  of  stale 
bread,  composed  of  one  quart  of  bread-crumbs  and  one  cupful  of  butter,  and 
water  enough  to  moisten;  add  to- this  two  dozen  oysters  and  pepper  and  salt  to 
suit  the  taste;  mix  all,  and  stuff  the  turkey  with  it;  put  butter  over  the  outside, 
l)ut  some  AA-ater  into  the  dripping-pan,  set  it  in  the  oveii,  and  bake  until  doue, 
basting  quite  often.  Never  parl)()il  a  young  turkey. 
Mrs,  Wm,  Thurston,  Monroe,  Nebraska, 


94 


POULTRY  AND    GAME. 


COLD  TURKEY  A   LA   GRANDE  DUCHESSE. 

Pick,  singe  aiul  cleauso  the  turlvey,  and  draw  tlie  sinews  from  the  legs;  cut 
off  its  head,  and  open  it  at  the  baclv  of  the  neck  and  remove  the  backbone  and 
breast-bone  as  far  as  the  leg-joint,  removing  the  entrails  with  the  carcass;  then 
stulf  it,  sew  it  up,  and  truss  it  for  boiling.  The  feet  should  be  just  dipped  into 
boiling  water,  and  then  the  outer  skin  remoA'cd,  the  sinews  cut  off,  and  the  toes 
cut  short,  and  the  lower  part  of  the  leg  with  the  foot  replaced;  tie  the  turkey 
up  in  a  well-buttered  cloth,  and  put  it  to  boil  for  one  and  one  half  to  two  hours, 
according  to  the  size  of  the  bird,  in  good  stock,  with  vegetables,  such  as  carrot, 
onion,  celery  and  herbs  (basil,  marjoram,  bay-leaf,  thyme  and  parsley),  a  few 
black  and  white  peppercorns,  six  or  eight  cloves  and  a  blade  or  two  of  mace; 
let  the  stock  come  to  a  boil,  then  draw  the  pan  to  the  side  of  the  oven  and  let 
it  simmer  gently  until  cooked.  Take  up  the  turkey,  remove  the  cloth,  and  let 
it  get  cold;  it  is  best  to  boil  the  turkey  the  day  before  it  is  to  be  dished  up.  When 
cold,  remove  the  strings,  and  mask  the  bird  over  with  white  chaudfroid  sauce, 


putting  on  tvro  or  three  coatings  of  the  sauce  until  it  is  well  masked;  when  the 
sauce  is  somewhat  set,  lightly  mask  that  over  with  aspic  jelly  which  is  not  quite 
set,  so  as  to  give  the  surface  a  polish,  and  at  once  sprinkle  over  it  some  finely 
shredded  blanched  pistachio-nuts;  when  the  aspic  is  set,  dish  up  the  turkey  and 
garnish  it  around  Avith  ornamentally  cut  pieces  of  aspic;  talce  three  hatelet 
skewers,  and  on  tliem  place  some  of  the  prepared  crayfish  or  cooked  prawns 
and  truffle  or  financiere  garnish  and  pate  de  foie  gras,  and  arrange  them  on  the 
breast  of  the  turkey,  as  in  the  engraving,  also  garnish  the  breast  with  truffles, 
llus  dish  can  be  served  for  any  cold  collation,  ball  supper,  etc.  Chickens  may 
be  prepared  in  a  similar  manner. 

STUFFING  FOR  TURKEY. 

Take  some  bread-crumbs,  and  turn  on  just  enough  hot  water  to  soften  them; 
put  in  a  piece  of  butter,  not  melted,  the  size  of  a  hen's  egg  and  one  spoonful  of 
pulverized  sage,  one  teaspoouful  of  ground  pepper  and  one  teaspoonful  of  salt; 
then  jnix  thoroughly,  and  stuff  your  turkey. 

PLAIN  STUFFING. 

Take  stale  bread,  cut  off  all  the  crust,  grate  very  fine,  and  pour  over  it  as 
much  melted  butler  as  will  make  it  crumble  in  your  hands;  season  with  salt 
and  pepper  to  suit  the  taste. 


POULTRY  AND    GAME. 


TvOAST  DUCK. 


IVopaiv  your  cluck  for  roastiuj^-,  and  use  llie  following  slutiiug: 
Cliop  liue  and  throw  into  cold  water 

0  good-sized  onions.     Take  A  little  salt  and  pepjjor, 

1  large  spoonful  of  sage,  A  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut, 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  bread-crumbs.  Add  the  onions,  drained. 

Mix  well,  and  stuff  the  duck;  if  an  ordinary-sized  duck,  bake  one  hour. 

DUCK   A   LA    PKOVENCALE. 

Take  a  picked,  singed  and  boned  duck,  turn  it  inside  out,  and  season  it  with 
salt,  pepper,  lenion-jxnce,  fi)iely  chopped  shallot,  chopped  Spanish  olive,  chopped 
parsley,  thyme,  bay-leaf,  and  lean  cooked  tongue  or  ham.  Prepare  a  farce, 
as  below,  and  fill  up  the  inside  of  the  duck;  then  roll  it  up  in  the  form  of  a 
gelatin,  tie  on  it  a  piece  of  fat  raw  bacon,  slitted  here  and  there,  and  tie  it  up 
in  a  strong  cloth,  so  as  to  keep  the  shape  as  nice  as  possible;  put  into  a  stew-pan 
two  or  three  sliced  onions,  a  few  slices  of  carrot,  turnip,  celery,  fresh  mush- 
room, a  good  bunch  of  herbs,  one  pint  of  coolclng  white  wine,  the  juice  of  two 
lemons,  one  teaspoonful  of  black  and  white  peppercorns,  six  or  eight  cloves, 
tv^'o  blades  of  mace,  a  few  bacon-bones,  and  enough  good  light  stock  to  cover; 


simmer  gently  for  about  one  hour,  then  take  up  and  retie  the  bird,  and  leave  it 
in  press  in  the  stock  until  cold;  then  take  up,  remove  the  cloth,  etc.,  and  mask 
over  with  brown  chaudfroid;  garnish  with  hard-boiled  white  of  egg,  French 
chillies  and  gherkins;  set  this  garnish  with  a  little  more  aspic  jelly,  then  dish 
up  the  bird,  garnishing  with  blocks  of  aspic  cream  and  aspic  jelly  and  Spanish 
olives;  serve  for  dinner  or  luncheon  with  iced  orange  sauce  in  a  boat. 

Farce  for  Duck  a  i-a  1'rovencale. — Take  one  half  pound  of  cooked  chicken, 
one  half  pound  of  cooked  pheasant  or  other  game,  and  pound  both  together,  with 
six  ounces  of  cooked  tongue  or  ham  and  four  yolks  of  hard-boiled  eggs;  rub 
thi-ough  a  wire  sieve,  then  add  one  Avine-glassful  of  sherry,  mix  with  six  ounces 
of  freshly  made  white  bread-crumbs,  a  good  pinch  of  salt  and  pepper,  two  finely 
chopped  shallots,  one  teas])oonful  of  chopped  tru/iie,  the  sauje  of  tongue  and 
three  whole  raw  eggs;  mix  well,  then  use. 

APPLE  STUFFING. 

Take  one  pint  of  tart  apple  sauce,  and  mix  with  it  one  small  cupful  of  bread- 
crumbs, a  little  powdered  sage,  one  small  onion  sliced  fine,  and  season  with 
cayenne  peppei".    This  is  used  for  roast  goose,  duck  and  game. 


96  POULTRY  AND    GAME. 

WILD  DUCKS. 

Nearly  all  wild  clucks  are  liable  to  have  a  fishy  flavor,  and  when  handled 
by  inexperienced  cooivs,  are  sometimes  uneatable  from  this  cause.  Before  roast- 
ing them,  guard  against  this  by  parboiling  tiiem  with  a  small  peeled  carrot  put 
within  each.  This  will  absorb  the  unpleasant  taste.  An  onion  will  have  the 
same  effect;  but  unless  you  mean  to  use  onion  in  the  stuffing,  the  carrot  is 
pieferable.  In  my  own  kitchen,  I  usually  put  in  the  onion,  considering  a 
suspicion  of  garlic  .a  desideratum  in  roast  duck,  whether  wild  or  tame. 

ROAST   WILD   DUCK. 

Parboil  according  to  directions  for  preparing  wild  duck;  throw  away  the 
carrot  or  onion,  lay  in  fresh  water  half  an  hour;  stuff  with  bread-crumbs 
seasoned  with  pepper,  salt,  sage  and  onion,  and  roast  until  brown  and  tender, 
basting  for  half  the  time  with  butter  and  water,  then  Avith  the  drippings;  add 
to  the  gravy,  when  you  have  taken  up  the  ducks,  a  teaspoonful  of  currant  jelly 
and  a  pinch  of  cayenne;  thicken  with  browned  fiour,  and  serve  in  a  tureen. 

ROAST  GOOSE. 

Dress  the  fowl  twenty-four  hours  before  using,  and  soak  in  salt-water  two 
hours  before  cooking;  make  a  maslied-potato  dressing,  seasoned  with  onion, 
butter,  pepper  and  salt;  fill  the  body  of  the  goose,  grease  it  all  over  well  with 
butter,  and  dredge  with  flour;  place  in  a  pan,  with  a  pint  of  water;  baste  well, 
and  cook  two  hours;  serve  with  onion  graA^y  and  apple  sauce. 

BOILED  GOOSE. 

Soak  over  night  in  SAveet  millv;  in  the  morning,  wash,  and  allow  it  to  stand 
in  cold  water  one  hour;  fill  the  body  AA'ith  Avell-seasoned  bread-dressing,  using 
salt,  pepper,  onions  and  sage.  Tie  up  in  a  tliin  cheese-cloth;  boil  two  hours; 
serve  AAnth  giblet  sauce  and  gooseberry  jam. 

PIGEON  PIE. 

Clean  and  truss  three  or  four  pigeons,  rub  the  outsides  and  insides  with  a 
mixture  of  pepper  and  salt;  rub  the  insides  with  a  bit  of  butter,  and  fill  them 
with  a  bread-and-butter  stuffing  or  mashed  potatoes;  sew  up  the  slit,  butter  the 
sides  of  a  tin  basin  or  pudding-dish,  and  line  (the  sides  only)  Avith  pie  paste  rolled 
to  one  fourth  of  an  inch  in  thickness;  lay  the  birds  in;  for  three  large  tame 
pigeons,  cut  one  fourth  of  a  pound  of  sweet  butter,  and  put  it  over  them;  strew 
over  a  large  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  small  teaspoonful  of  pepper,  with  a  bunch 
of  finely  cut  parsley,  if  liked;  dredge  one  large  tablespoonful  of  wheat  flour  over, 
put  in  water  to  nearly  fill  the  pie;  lay  skewers  across  the  top,  "cover  with  a  puff- 
paste  crust;  cut  a  slit  in  the  middle,  ornament  the  edge  with  leaves,  braids  or 
shells  of  paste,  and  put  it  in  a  moderately  hot  or  quick  oven  for  one  hour;  when 
nearly  done,  brush  the  top  over  Avith  the  yolk  of  an  egg  beaten  with  a  little  milk, 
and  finish.  The  pigeons  for  this  pie  may  be  cut  in  two  or  more  pieces,  if 
preferred.    Any  small  birds  may  be  done  in  this  manner. 


POULTRY   AND    GAME. 


KOAST  ri(JE()X. 


When  clcnn  aii<l  ready  for  roasTliii;-.  fill  the  bird  with  a  stuttiiii;-  of  l)road- 
crumbs,  one  spoonful  of  butter,  a  little  salt  and  iiutiueji',  and  three  oysters  to 
each  bird  (some  prefer  chopped  apple).  They  must  be  well  basted  with  melted 
butter,  and  reqtiire  thirty  minutes'  careful  cooking. 

CUTLETS  OF   PIGEON   A    LA    PIEMONTAISE. 

IMck  and  singe  the  pigeons,  and  bone  them  Avith  the  exception  of  the  leg. 
and  cut  each  bird  in  two,  so  tliat  the  meat  attached  to  each  leg  will  form  a 
cutlet;  scald  the  feet,  cut  off  the  nails,  peel  off  the  outer  skin;  season  the  cutlets 
Willi  black  pepi)er  and  salt,  a  little  chopped  sliallot.  parsley  and  lean  cooked 
liauj  or  tongue,  and  put  tlieni  into  a  buttered  saute-pau.  with  the  skin  side 
uppermost;  saute  them  for  about  two  minutes,  then  place  tliem  in  the  oven  for 
four  or  five  minutes;  remove  them,  and  put  tliem  to  press,  and  when  the  cutlets 
are  cold,  trim  them  neatly  and  mask  them  over  lightly  with  veal  or  beef  farce; 
smooth  the  farce  over  with  a  hot,  wet  knife,  so  that  each  leg  takes  a  nice  cutlet 


sliape;  dip  tliem  into  Avell-l>eateu  wliole  egg.  and  tlien  into  freshly  made  bread- 
crumbs; bat  the  crumbs  Avith  a  knife  until  tliey  are  all  smooth;  place  the  cutlets 
in  a  saute-pan,  Avitli  about  tAA'o  ounces  of  clarified  butter,  and  fry  .until  a  nice 
golden  color.  Dish  up  on  a  Iwrder  of  potato,  and  serve  Avith  a  puree  of  mtish- 
roonis  in  tlie  center,  and  espagnol  sance,  in  Avliich  the  bones  of  tlie  bird  have 
been  used  for  flaA'or,  around  the  base.  A  cutlet  frill,  if  liked,  may  be  placed  on 
each  foot,  and  the  cutlets  can  be  fried  in  lard  or  oil  if  more  convenient.  Serve 
as  an  entree  for  dinner  or  luncheon  while  quite  liot.  Other  birds  can  be  used  in 
the  same  Avay. 

CHESTNUT    DRESSING. 

SIu>ll  the. nuts  first,  then  pour  on  l)oiling  Avater  to  scald  them  a  few  moments; 
then  remove  the  broAA'n  skin,  or  covering.  AA'hicli  is  called  lilanching.  and  put 
them  to  T)oil  in  lukeAvarm  water;  let  them  cook  until  soft,  and  mash  them; 
mix  Avith  a  little  sAveet  cream,  T)read-crumbs,  pepper  and  salt.  This  is  used  for 
turkeys. 

rOTVTO   STUFFING. 

Take  one  third  of  bread-crumbs,  tAvo  thirds  of  mashed  potatoes,  butter  the 
size  of  an  offii.  salt  and  pepper,  one  egg  and  one  half  teaspoonfnl  of  ground  sage; 
mix  ihoroughlv.  and  fill  the  foAvl. 


98 


POULTRY  AND   GAMfl. 


BROILED  QUAIL. 

Remove  the  feathers  Avithout  scalding,  and  dross  the  quails  carefully;  tiieil 
soak  a  short  tisne  iu  salt- water,  split  down  the  back,  dry  with  a  cloth,  and  rub 
them  over  Avith  butter,  and  place  on  the  gridiron  over  a  clear  fire;  turn 
frequently,  and  put  bits  of  butter  over  them;  Avhen  taken  up,  season  with  salt. 
Prepare  a  slice  of  thin  toast,  nicely  buttered  and  laid  on  a  hot  dish,  for  each 
bird,  and  lay  a  bird,  breast  upward,  on  each  slice;  garnish  Avith  currant  jelly. 

QUAILS  A   LA   TOSCA. 

Pick,  singe  and  bone  some  quails,  leaving  half  the  leg-bone  in  the  bottom 
part  of  the  leg  with  the  foot  on;  season  them  Avith  finely  chopped  fresh  mush- 
rooms, shallots,  parsley  and  a  little  salt  and  coralline  pepper;  put  them  into  a 
buttered  saute-pan,  saute  tliem  for  two  or  three  minutes,  and  put  them  to  press 
until  cold;  then  mask  them  over  Avith  the  sauce  prepared  as  beloAV,  sprinkle  with 
fine   flour,   dip   them    into  whole   beaten   egg  and   freshly   made   white   bread- 


crumbs; repeat  this  tAvice,  batting  them  with  a  palette-knife  to  keep  them  quite 
sm'ooth,  then  fry  in  clean  boiling  fat  until  a  pretty  golden  color;  Avhen  cooked, 
dish  up  on  a  border  of  potato,  in  the  center  of  which  place  a  crouton  of  fried 
bread  that  is  scooped  out  and  filled  Avith  a  puree  of  fresh  mushrooms;  garnish 
witli  prepared  financiere,  as  in  engraving,  fixing  it  with  a  hatelet  skewer,  which 
will  give  a  jn-etty  finish  to  the  dish,  and  serve  with  champagne  sauce. 

Sauce  for  Masking  Qttait.s  a  la  Tosca.— Take  half  a  pint  of  hot,  thick 
bechamel  sauce  and  mix  Avith  it  three  raAV  yolks  of  eggs;  stir  this  over  the  fire 
until  it  thickens,  then  tammy,  and  add  one  tablespoonful  of  finely  chopped 
cooked  ham  or  tongue,  two  yolks  of  hard-boiled  eggs  that  have  been  rubbed 
through  a  Avire  sieve  and  one  dessert-spoonful  of  finely  chopped  parsley;  mix 
all,  and  use  as  described  aboA^e. 

ROAST   QUAIL. 

Pluck  and  draAv  the  birds,  rub  a  little  biirter  over  them,  tie  a  strip  of  bacon 
over  the  breasts,  and  set  them  in  the  oven  for  twenty  or  tAventy-five  minutes. 


POULTRY   AND    GAME. 


99 


QUAILS  A    LA   LESSEPS. 

Caillcs  (1  la  Lesscps. 

1'ake  some  boned  quails  with  the  feet  left  on,  and  place  inside  of  each  bird 
one  peeled,  dried,  raw  potato,  cut  about  two  and  one  half  inches  long  by  one  and 
one  half  inches  wide,  and  form  into  cj'linder  shapes;  dry  these  Avith  a  cloth, 
and  rub  them  well  with  butter;  fasten  up  the  birds  in  little  bands  of  buttered 
paper,  place  them  in  a  buttered  saute-pan,  with  one  half  wine-glassful  of  sherry, 
and  put  into  the  oven  for  about  fifteen  minutes;  when  done,  take  up,  and  set 
aside  until  cold,  then  remove  the  papers  and  the  potatoes,  and  by  means  of  a 
forcing-bag  and  a  plain  pipe  fill  the  birds  with  a  ragout,  as  below;  put  them  in 
a  cool  place  until  the  ragout  is  perfectly  set,  then  cut  the  birds  into  halves  Avitii 
a  wet,  warm  knife,  and  mask  each  with  bro^A  n  cliaudfroid  sauce;  when  well 
coated,  mask  liglitjy  with  a  little  liciuid  aspic  jelly,  and  disli  up  around  a  timbal 
of  clear  ice  prepared  as  btlow.     Arrange  between  each  half  bird  a  little  finely 


chopped  aspic,  and  garnish  the  top  of  the  birds  with  a  little  pate  de  foie  gras 
tliat  has  been  passed  through  a  wire  sieve,  using  a  forcing-bag  and  a  large  rose- 
pipe  for  the  purpose;  garnish  the  dish  here  and  there  with  little  sprigs  of  picked 
chervil  and  tarragon,  and  when  about  to  serve,  put  a  lighted  night-light  in  the 
center  of  the  ice  timbal,  and  serve  at  once. 

llAGOUT  FOR  Filling  the  Quails  a  la  Lesseps.— To  four  quails  take  one  half 
breast  of  a  cooked  chicken  cut  into  small  pieces,  six  button  muslirooms,  two  or 
three  truffles  and  two  ounces  of  foie  gras;  mix  these  with  the  sauce  prepared 
as  below;  leave  until  nearly  set,  then  use. 

Sauce  for  Ragout  for  Quails  a  la  Lesseps.— Put  a  dessert-spoonful  of 
extract  of  beef  into  a  stew-pan,  with  one  fourth  pint  of  tomato  sauce,  one  wine- 
glassful  of  sherry  and  one  half  pint  of  aspic  jelly;  reduce  to  one  half  the  quan- 
tity, keep  skimming  while  boiling,  then  tammy,  and  use. 

Ice  Timbal  for  Quails  a  la  Lesseps.— Set  a  plain  timbal-mold  that  is  filled 
with  cold  water  in  the  charged  ice-cave  for  two  and  one  half  to  three  hours; 
when  frozen,  dip  into  cold  water,  turn  out  the  ice,  and  put  it  in  the  center  of  the 
dish  on  which  the  quails  are  to  be  served,  first  placing  between  the  timbal  ^Qd 
the  dish  a  little  wadding. 


100 


POULTRY  AND    GAME. 


POTTED  QUAIL. 

Singe,  draw  and  wash  quickly  six  flue,  fat  quails,  season  them  with  one 
scant  even  tablespoouful  of  salt,  evenly  distributed.  Fry  in  a  saucepan  one  half 
cupful  of  finely  cut  larding-porlv  light  brown,  add  two  ounces  of  butter  and  the 
quail;  let  them  cooli  until  they  have  obtained  a  light  brown  color  all  over,  then 
add  one  cupful  of  boiling  water;  continue  'cooking  until  done,  which  will  take 
about  an  hour.  Place  the  giblets  in  a  saucepan,  cover  with  cold  water,  add  a 
little  salt,  one  onion,  boil  until  tender,  then  chop  them  fine.  Shortly  before 
serving,  toast  six  pieces  of  baker's  bread,  then  butter  them,  lay  on  a  hot  dish, 
place  one  quail  on  each  piece  of  toast.  Mix  one  half  tablespoouful  of  corn-starch 
with  one  fourth  cupful  of  cold  watei",  stir  it  in  the  gravy,  cook  two  minutes  on 
top  of  the  stove,  add  some  of  the  giblet-water  to  make  a  creamy  sauce;  strain 
the  gravy,  add  the  giblets,  pour  a  little  over  each  one,  and  serve  the  rest  sep- 
arately.   Decorate  the  dish  with  water-cress. 

Mrs.  Gesine  Lemcke,  Priucipal  German-American  Cooking  College,  Brooklyn,  N.  Y. 

SALMIS  OF  QUAILS  A   L'EMPRESS. 

iSalmis  de  Gailles  ct  V Empress. 
Take  some  roast  or  braised  quails,   cut  tliem  into  halves,  dust  over  wi-th 
sifred  fine  flour,  and  place  them  in  a  saute-pan,  co's'er  them  with  sauce  prepared 
as  below,  and  boil  them  in  it  for  ten  to  fifteen  minutes;  then  dish  them  up  on 


a  border  of  potato,  garnish  the  center  of  the  dish  with  potato  puree,  braised 
olives  and  French  red  chillies;  pour  the  sauce  around  the  dish,  and  serve  at 
once  for  gn  entree  for  dinner  or  luncheon  while  quite  hot. 

Sauce  for  Salmis  of  Quails  a  l'Esupeess. — Take  two  washed  fresh  mush- 
rooms, one  ounce  of  cut-up  lean  bacon,  two  large  sliced  onions,  a  bunch  of  herbs, 
one  ounce  of  butter  and  two  fresh  tomatoes;  fry  these  for  twenty  minutes;  then 
add  to  the  pan  one  ounce  of  good  glaze,  a  wine-glassful  of  sherry,  the  juice  of  a 
lemnn,  a  few  drops  of  carmine,  one  and  one  half  pints  of  bi'owu  sauce,  a  dust 
of  pepper  and  two  chopped  French  gherkins;  boil  with  any  bird-bcnes,  such  as 
I)heasant,  etc.,  for  twenty  to  thirty  minutes,  lieeping  well  skimmed  while  cook- 
ing; then  rub  through  the  tammy,  reboil,  and  use. 


PEAFOWLS. 

INIany  farmers  have  these  in  plenty,  and  use  them  the  same  as  turkeys. 
recip(!  for  turkeys  AA'iJl  do  for  these,  and  they  are  very  delicious, 


Any 


POULTRY  AND    GAME. 


101 


KOAST  i*aktkid(_;e. 

Choose  youtiff  birds,  with  darlv-oolored  bills  and  yellowish  legs,  aud  let  them 
haus  a  few  days,  or  there  will  be  no  flavor  to  the  flesh,  nor  will  it  be  tender. 
The  time  they  should  be  kept  depends  entirely  on  the  taste  of  those  for  Avhom 
thfy  are  intended,  as  ^^•hat  some  persons  would  consider  delicious  Avould  be  to 
oth(>rs  disgusting  aud  oflensive.  They  may  be  trussed  Avith  or  without  the  head, 
the  latter  mode  being  now  considered  the  most  fashionable,  riuclc,  draw  aud 
\\  ipe  the  partridge  carefully  inside  and  out;  cut  off  the  head,  leaving  sufRcieut 
skin  on  the  neck  to  skewer  back:  bring  the  legs  close  to  the  breast,  between  it 
iuu\  the  side  l»ones,  and  pass  a  skewer  through  the  pinions  and  thick  part  of 
the  tliighs.  AMieu  tlie  Iiead  is  left  on,  it  should  be  brought  around  and  fixed 
onto  the  point  of  the  slicwer.  When  the  bird  is  firmly  and  plumply  trussed, 
roast  it  before  a  nice,  bright  tire;  keep  it  Avell  basted,  aud  a  few  minutes  before 
serving,  flour  and  froth  it  well,  dish  it,  and  serve  with  gravy  and  bread  sauce, 
aud  send  to  the  table  hot,  and  quickly;  a  little  of  the  gravy  should  be  poured 
over  the  bird. 

SUPREME  OF  PHEASANT   A   LA   ST.   HUBERT. 

/Supreme  de  Faisan  (1  la  iS(.  Hubert. 
Take  a  nice  cleansed  T)hcasaut,  remose  the  breast  fillets  from  it,  and  cut 
them  into  as  n)any  nice'long  pieces  as  possible,  not  quite  one  fourth  of  an  inch 
tliick;  bat  them  out  Avith  a  cold,  wet  knife,  and  season  Avith  a  little  pepper  and 


salt,  fiuely  chopped  parsley  and  shallot  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  good  game 
stock;  place  them  in  a  buttered  saute-pan,  with  a  buttered  paper  over,  and 
cook  in  a  moderate  oven  for  about  eight  minutes.  Mask  the  snpremes  over  Avith 
a  Utile  tomato  puree;  dish  up  on  a  border  of  farce  or  i)otato,  and  betAveen  each 
piece  of  the  meat  place  a  little  quenelle  that  is  prepared  of  pheasant  and 
poached  in  small  quenelle-tins.  SerA'e  Avith  a  compote  of  French  plums  in  the 
center,  aud  Hubert  sauce  (see  recipe)  ai'ound  the  dish,  and  use  for  an  entree  for 
dinner  or  luncheon. 

QVENKLIES   FOR   StPREME    OF    PlIEASANT   A   LA    St.    HlTBERT.— Take   tlVC   OUUCCS 

of  raAv  pheasant,  pound  it  until  smooth,  then  pound  four  ounces  of  panard,  one 
half  ounce  of  butter,  two  whole  raAV  eggs,  a  little  salt  aud  pepper;  mix  all,  aud 
then  rub  through  a  fine  wire  sieve;  mix  Avith  one  dessert-spoonful  of  cream  a 
few  drops  of  carmine,  and  ])ut  into  quenelle-molds  slightly  buttert^d  and  masked 
Avith  chopped  truffle,  poach  for  tAA'elve  to  flfteeu  minutes,  then  turn  out  on  a 
cloth,  and  use. 


102 


POULTRY  AND    GAME.. 


BEIGNETS  OF  PHEASANT  A   LA    DOMINIQUE. 

Beignets  de  Faisan  cl  la  Dominique. 
Prepare  a  puree  of  pheasant,  and  form  it  into  ball  sliapes  about  the  size  of  a 
walnut,  rolling  each  with  a  little  flour  to  prevent  it  sticking;  make  a  little  well 
inside  the  ball  by  pressing  the  finger  inside  it,  and  place  inside  the  well  a  little 
piece  of  good  set  glaze  about  the  size  of  a  small  Spanish  nut,  and  a  piece  of 
triiftie  or  coolvod  button  mushroom  about  the  same  size  as  the  glaze;  roll  up 
again  into  balls,  and  by  means  of  a  forcing-bag  and  small,  plain  pipe  cover  the 
balls  over  with  profite-role  paste  (omitting  the  cheese),  and  after  covering  them 
Avith  the  paste,  roll  them  again  Avith  a  little  flour  and  drop  them  into  clean  hot 
fat,  and  fry  them  over  a  quick  fire  for  eight  or  ten  minutes,  during  which  time 
keep  them  constantly  turned  over  and  over;  they  should  be  a  pretty  golden  color 
when  cooked.  Then  take  up  on  a  pastry-rack  and  drain  them;  brush  them  over 
very  lightly  with  raw  white  of  egg  that  has  been  just  mixed  up  with  a  fork,  and 
sprinkle  on  the  top  of  each  beignet  alternately  a  little  finely  chopped  lean  cooked 


ham  or  tongue  and  a  little  finely  chopped  truffle  or  parsley.     Dish  up  in  a  pile 
on  a  hot  dish  on  a  dish-paper,  and  serve  for  an  entree  for  dinner  or  luncheon. 

PuEEE  FOE  Beignets  of  Pheasant  a  la  Dominique.— For  twelve  beignets 
take  three  fourths  of  a  pound  of  cold  cooked  pheasant,  pound  it  until  quite 
smooth,  and  mix  with  it  two  large  tablespoonfuls  of  thick  bechamel  sauce,  one 
ounce  of  good  butter,  a  pinch  of  salt  and  a  slight  dust  of  cayenne  pepper;  when 
mixed  into  a  perfectly  smooth  paste,  rub  it  all  through  a  fine  wire  sieve,  and  use 
as  directed. 

PHEASANT  PIE  A  LA    FRANCAISE. 

Take  a  square  fleur-mold,  butter  it  inside,  and  place  it  on  a  baking-tin  on  a 
double  fold  of  foolscap  paper  that  is  buttered;  then  line  the  mold  about  one 
fourth  of  an  inch  thick  with  short  paste,  pressing  the  paste  well  into  the  shape 
of  the  tin.  I'ake  a  picked,  singed,  cleaned  and  boned  pheasant,  cut  it  up  into  neat 
joints,  lay  these  open  and  season  them  with  a  little  mignonette  pepper,  a  very 
little  salt,  and  washed  and  chopped  fresh  mushroom,  a  little  shallot,  thyme,  bay- 
leaf,  parsley  and  the  livers  of  the  pheasants  finely  chopped;  place  a  little  piece  of 
pate  de  foie  gras  about  the  size  of  a  Spanish  nut  in  each  piece  of  pheasant,  and 
then  roll  up  the  pieces  in  cylinder  shapes,  and  place  these  pieces  one  on  the 
other  in  the  pie  until  it  is  full;  wet  the  edges  of  the  paste,  and  roU  gut  somi3 


POULTRY  ASrI)   6aMe'. 


103 


rnoro  paste  about  half  the  thickness  of  that  used  for  the  linhip;  of  the  mold,  cover 
the  pie  over,  and  trim  tlie  edj;-es;  roll  out  the  remainder  of  the  paste  perfectly 
tliiu  like  a  wafer,  and  stamp  it  out  in  rounds  about  one  and  one  half  inches  in 
diameter,  and  by  means  of  a  knife  work  out  the  rounds  of  paste  in  the  form  of 
small  shells.  Wet  the  top  of  the  pie  paste  over  with  a  little  cold  water,  using  a 
j)aste-brush  for  the  purpose,  and  then  place  the  little  shells  on  the  top  until  it 
is  quite  covered;  make  a  little  hole  in  the  center  of  the  top,  so  as  to  be  able  to 
fill  the  pie  Avitli  gravy  when  cold;  place  a  band  of  buttered  paper  around,  so  as 
to  stand  about  three  inches  above  the  pie,  and  put  it  into  a  moderate  oven,  and 
bake  for  one  and  one  half  to  t-\vo  hours;  during  tlie  baking  keep  tlie  top  of  the 
pie  covered  over  with  a  wetted  paper  to  prevent  the  paste  getting  browned,  as 
it  shoidd  be  a  pretty  fawn  color  when  cooked.  IMit  it  away  until  cold,  then  till 
up  with  gravy  made  from  the  bones,  as  below,  and  then  remove  the  tin  from  it; 
place  the  pie  on  a  dish-paper,  and  garnish  it  around  Avith  nice  blocks  of  cut  aspic 
jelly,  and  serve  for  any  cold  collation,  such  as  for  supper,  luncheon,  race 
meetings,  etc. 


Gkavy  for  Fii.i-ing  ttp  Pheasant  Pie.— Take  the  bones  of  the  birds,  chop 
them  up  finely,  'ind  put  them  into  a  stcAV-pan,  with  one  ounce  of  butter,  a  sliced 
lemon,  two  bay-leaves,  a  sprig  of  thyme  and  parsley,  a  sprig  of  marjoram  and 
a  pinch  of  mignonette  pepper;  put  the  cover  on  the  pan,  and  fry  the  contents  for 
about  fifteen  minutes,  giving  the  pan  an  occasional  shake  while  frying;  then 
add  about  one  quart  of  good  stock,  and  let  it  simmer  gently  on  the  side  of  the 
stove  for  about  three  fourths  of  an  hovu-;  strain,  and  remove  the  fat,  and  dissolve 
in  the  liquor  one  fourth  of  an  ounce  of  gelatin,  and  use  when  cooling,  and  when 
about  the  consistency  of  cream. 


LARKS  A  LA  SOTTERVILLE. 
Mauviettes  (I  la  Sotterville. 
'J'ake  some  singed  and  cleaned  larks,  bone  them,  but  leave  the  feet  and  bot- 
tom part  of  the  legs  on;  then  by  means  of  a  forcing-bag  and  plain  pipe  farce 
each  bird  with  a  puree  prepared  as  below;  form  them  into  neat  shapes,  wrap 
each  bird  in  a  band  of  buttered  foolscap  paper,  tie  them  up  with  thin  string,  put 
tliimi  into  a  tin,  with  a  little  Avai-m  butter,  and  bake  for  about  fifteen  minutes, 
during  which  time  keep  them  well  basted;  set  them  aside  until  cold,  then  mask 
with  fawn-colored  chaudfroid  sauce  (see  recipe),  and  when  this  is  set,  mask  all 


104 


POULTRY  AND   GAME. 


over  with  aspic  jellj^;  wlien  quite  cold,  trim  them,  and  dish  up  on  a  border  of 
ajr^pic  cream,  as  below,  standing  them  against  a  crouton  oi'  fried  bread;  then  by 
menus  of  a  forcing-bag  and  pipe  garnisli  between  the  larks  with  finely  chopped 
aspic  cream;  arrange  here  and  there  some  linauciere  garnish  that  has  been 
masked  with  aspic  jelly,  and  also  some  finely  shredded  cut  truffles.  Arrange 
just  above  the  larks  the  heads  of  the  birds  prepared  as  follows:  Cleanse  the 
heads,  roll  them  up  in  buttered  paper,  and  cook  them  in  a  moderate  oven  for ' 
five  minutes;  set  aside  until  cold,  and  brush  each  over  witli  warm  glaze  or  cool 
aspic  jelly;  cut  out  Avith  a  pea -cutter  some  little  rounds  of  hard-boiled  white  of 
egg  to  fit  the  birds'  e.ves,  place  these  in  the  spaces,  and  in  the  center  of  these  put 
a  smaller  round  of  red  chilli,  then  maslv  with  aspic  jelly. 

Faece  for  Lakks  a  la  Sotterville. — To  twelve  birds  take  six  ounces  of 
cooked  pheasant  or  chicken,  six  raw  bearded  oysters  and  their  liquor,  two 
ounces  of  pate  de  foie  gras,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  good  brown  sauce,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  warm  glaze,  two  ounces  of  pauard  and  two  raw  yolks  of  eggs;  pound 


until  smooth,  season  with  a  dust  of  pepper  and  a  little  salt,  rub  through  a  wire 
sieve,  mix  with  two  or  three  French  red  chillies  that  have  been  freed  from  seeds, 
and  cut  into  little  square  pieces,  put  into  a  forcing-bag  with  a  plain  pipe,  and  use. 
Aspic  Cream  for  Border  for  Larks  a  la  Sottervii;le.— Take  one  quart  of 
aspic  jelly,  one  pint  of  thick  cream  and  one  half  ounce  of  gelatin;  dissolve, 
tammy,  and  when  cooling,  fill  a  border-mold  with  it;  let  it  remain  until  set, 
then  dip  into  hot  water,  and  turn  out;  set  any  of  the  remains  of  the  cream  aside 
until  quite  cold,  for  chopping  up. 


LAKKS  A  LA  KEYNIERE. 
Mauviettes  d,  la  BeyniBre. 
Take  some  boned  larks,  and  farce  them  Avlth  a  little  pate  de  foie  gras,  then 
pxit  each  into  a  small  band  of  buttered  paper,  and  tie  them  up;  butter  a  stew- 
pan,  and  put  into  it  one  or  two  slices  each  of  carrot,  onion,  turnip,  leek  and 
celery,  a  bunch  of  herbs,  such  as  thyme,  parsley  and  bay-leaf,  and  a  few  pepper- 
corns; place  the  larks  upon  these  vegetables,  put  a  buttered  paper  over  them, 
and  fry  for  about  five  minutes;  add  one  fourth  of  a  pint  of  stock,  place  the  pan 
in  the  oven  for  ten  minutes,  then  take  up  the  larks,  and  remove  the  paper; 


POULTRY   AND   GAME. 


105 


butter  soiiH'  liUh-  molds,  spriiiklo  tlicui  with  chopped  triillU',  then  line  them  with 
beef  farce,  usinsj;  a  forciii.t;-bag  and  pipe  for  tlie  piiipose;  make  a  well  in  the 
(■(Miler  of  each  with  the  linger,  which  sliould  l)e  dipped  into  hot  water  occa- 
sionally, place  a  lark  in  the  space  thus  formed,  and  cover  witli  more  farce;  place 


a  piece  of  paper  in  the  bottom  of  a  stew-pan,  upon  which  set  tlie  molds;  pour  in 
boilinij-  water  until  it  reaches  three  fourths  tlie  depth  of  the  molds,  watch  it 
reboil,  then  draw  the  pan  to  the  side  of  the  stove,  and  poach  for  about  fifteen 
minutes;  turn  out  of  the  molds  onto  a  border  of  farce,  pour  the  sauce  over  them, 
Itlace  the  prepared  heads  and  feet  of  the  larks  on  the  top  of  the  portions,  as  in 
engravinji'.  and  serve  as  an  entree  for  dinner.  To  cook  llie  heads  and  feel  of 
birds,  cleanse  them,  put  into  a  buttered  paper,  and  bake  in  the  oven  for  ten  to 
twelve  minutes;  .iust  before  serving,  brush  over  with  a  little  warm  glaze. 


LARKS  IN  BASKETS. 


N 


Farce  some  boned  larks  with  beef  farce  prepai'ed  as  in  recipe  "I^ittle  Creams 
of  Beef;"  make  a  well  inside  each  with  the  tiugei',  occasionally  dipping  the 
hitler  into  hot  water;  place  inside  the  spaces  thus  formed  a  little  slice  of 
bhmched  beef-marrow  that  is  masked  ov(  r  witli  a  little  linely  chopped  parsley. 


close  the  farce  well  ovor  tliis.  and  place  the  larks  in  little  bands  of  liultered 
paper,  and  put  them  into  a  saute-pan  between  two  pieces  of  fat  bacon  to  cook 
for  about  fifteen  minutes;  then  remove  the  paper,  and  place  the  larks  in  little 
short  paste-cases  (see  recipe  "Little  Croustades  of  Calf's  Brains"),  and  add  a 
little  sauce  sulRcient  to  reach  to  the  top  of  the  breast;  th(>n  witli  a  forcing- baj? 


106 


POULTRY  AND   GAME. 


and  pipe  cover  the  bird  entirely  with  some  of  the  beef  farce,  smooth  it  over 
Avith  a  wet,  warm  kuife,  and  ornameiit  iho  edufs  of  tiie  ba.sket  with  a  httlo 
'^A'hite  farce  in  the  shape  of  peas,  usini?  a  bag  and  small  pipe  for  the  purpose; 
place  the  cases  in  a  moderate  oven,  with  a  battered  paper  over,  and  eook  for 
about  fifteen  minutes.  Have  the  heads  and  feet  cleansed  and  cooked  as  for 
"I.arks  a  la  Reyniere,"  and  put  on  top  of  the  farce,  and  garnish  with  handles' 
of  paste  made  with  the  remains  of  the  paste  used  for  the  baskets;  then  dish  up) 
on  a  paper,  one  to  each  person,  and  serve.    These  can  also  be  served  cold. 

Sauce  for  Larks  in  Baskets.— Put  into  a  stew-pan  the  bones  from  the  birds,, 
one  half  pint  of  good  brown  sauce,  with  one  half  ounce  of  glaze,  one  wine- 
glassful  of  sherry,  one  fourth  of  a  pint  of  tomato  sauce  and  a  piflvsh  of  castor- 
sugar;  boil  down  for  about  fifteen  minutes;  keep  skimmed  Avhile  bto-iiiag,  theii 
taiumy,  and  use. 

CKOUSTADE   OF  GAME  A   LA   NOKMANDE. 

Croustade  de  Gibier  d,  la  Normande. 

Prepare  one  half  pound  of  short  paste,  and  line  a  buttered  luold  with  it  about 
one  eighth  of  an  inch  thick;  trim  the  edges  of  the  paste  neatly,  then  line  it  with 


buttered  paper,  and  fill  the  inside  with  raw  rice  or  any  other  dry  grain,  put  into 
a  moderate  oven  for  twenty-five  to  thirty  minutes;  remove  the  paper  and  rice, 
return  the  croustade  to  the  oven,  and  let  it  dry  Avell  on  the  inside;  when  ready 
to  serve,  remove  the  pegs  which  fasten  the  mold,  take  the  latter  off  the  croustade, 
dish  up,  and  fill  the  center  with  a  ragout  made  from  any  kind  of  cold  game  (or 
poultry  can  be  used  if  liked),  adding  to  one  half  pound  of  game  one  or  two  truf- 
fles, if  you  have  them,  cut  into  slices,  four  or  five  cooked  button  mushrooms, 
and  a  little  financiere  may  be  used;  mix  these  ingredients  into  a  good,  thick 
salmis  sauce,  make  hot  in  the  bain-marie,  and  then  fill  the  croustade;  garnish 
the  edge  of  this  with  a  puree  of  game  or  poultry  livers  and  little  fancy  rings  of 
of  paste,  tlien  arrange  some  savorj  custard  (see  recipe)  on  the  top  in  the  form 
of  an  inner  ring,  and  serve  hot.  with  a  little  of  the  sauce  around  the  base  of  the 
dish,  and  a  little  of  the  liver  puree,  with  a  few  of  the  paste-rings  at  each  end. 


1\)ULTUV   aX1>   game. 


107 


LITTLE   CROUSTADKS   OF  GAME  A   LA   BRISTOL. 

Pctiles  Croustades  dc  Gibicr  (i  la  Bristol. 

Line  some  litllo  fluted  molds  very  thinly  with  short  paste  about  one  eighth  of 
an  ineh  thic-lc,  pressing  it  well  into  the  shniie  of  the  molds,  trim  off  the  edges 
neatly,  and  line  the  insides  with  l)uttered  papei-;  till  the  papers  with  raw  rice, 
and  balce  in  a  moderate  oven  for  about  forty  minutes;  when  done,  remove  the 
riee  and  the  paper  from  the  paste-cases,  and  put  tlie  latter  back  into  the  oven  to 
dry,  and  when  ready  to  use,  brush  over  the  outsides  very  lightly  Avith  raw  white 
of  egg  that  has  been  mixed  with  a  fork,  using  as  little  as  possible;  then  sprinkle 
the  cases  with  finely  chopped  parsley,  fill  them  Avith  a  ragout  of  game,  and 
arrange  on  the  top  of  the  ragout  by  means  of  a  forcing-bag  and  rose-pipe  a  little 
liver  farce,  then  place  around  the  edges  of  the  croustades  little  rings  made  from 
tlu^  short  paste  and  masked  in  the  same  way  as  the  cases;  place  the  cases  upon  a 
hot  dish  on  a  dish-paper,  and  serve.    Use  as  an  entree  for  dinner  or  luncheon. 


IvAGoiTT  FOR  Croustades  a  la  Bristol.— Take  about  one  half  pound  of  any 
remains  of  cold  cooked  game  or  poultry,  remove  the  bones  and  skin,  and  cut 
the  meat  into  dice;  mix  it  with  two  or  three  cooked  button  mushrooms,  and  then 
mix  thess  into  reduced  salmis  sauce;  make  hot  in  thf  bain-marie,  and  use. 


COLD  GAME   PIE  A   LA  CLEVELAND. 

Take  one  pound  of  raw  veal,  put  into  two  parts;  cut  one  part  of  it  into  small 
slices  about  three  inches  long  and  one  half  inch  thick.  TalvC  a  pound  of  fresh  loin 
of  pork,  proceed  tlie  same  as  you  did  before;  cut  half  of  it  into  thin  slices;  put 
both  veal  and  pork  which  you  cut  up  into  a  bowl.  Take  a  thin  slice  of  cooked 
ham,  cut  into  fixe  or  six  equal  parts  lengthwise.  Take  one  partridge,  bone  it, 
and  take  all  the  nerves  out  of  it;  put  liam  and  partridge  into  the  bowl  with  the 
rest.  Cook  one  half  glassful  of  dry  Avhite  wine  in  a  small  saucepan,  with  a 
chopped  shallot,  one  bay-leaf,  a  littl(<  tiiyme,  a  few  slices  of  onion,  one  half 
handful  of  whole  black  pepper.  After  having  let  this  boil  for  a  few  minutes, 
strain  through  a  sieve  on  your  meats  in  the  bowl,  put  a  little  salt  over  it.  Take 
half  a  pound  of  fat  lardjng-pork,  take  off  the  skin,  add  to  the  other  half  of  your 
veal  and  pork,  pass  twice  through  a  cliopping-inachine.  This  will  make  the 
forcemeat  to  put  into  your  pie. 


108 


POrLTRY  AKD    game. 


I'ASTE  FOR  Pie.— Soak  one  pound  of  tloiiv  Avilh  oue  fourth  poiTud  of  buttei'. 
OHO  and  one  half  glassfuls  of  cold  water;  mix  everything  well.  This  paste  must 
be  hard,  but  not  stringy;  let  it  rest  for  two  hours. 

The  mold  used  for  this  pie  is  oval,-  and  opens  on  the  sides  with  hinges;  it 
has  no  bottom.  Put  this  mold  on  a  roast  or  pastry  pan  which  you  have  well 
buttered.  Have  a  piece  of  paste  to  fit  in  your  mold  about  one  fourth  of  an  inch 
thiclv;  that  means  to  have  the  bottom  and  the  sides  all  garnished  with  the  paste; 
fill  the  bottom  with  a  thin  layer  of  forcemeat  you  have  ready;  cut  four  truffles 
into  tliielv  slices;  put  your  partridge  meat  on  top  of  those;  cover  all  this  again 
with  forcemeat,  and  continue  putting  your  veal,  pork  and  forcemeat  in  until 
the  mold  is  filled;  over  all  this  put  a  few  large  slices  of  larding-pork,  to  prevent 
the  pie  from  drying  up;  put  again  over  the  latter  a  thin  cover  of  paste.  To  make 
this  cover  stick  to  the  rim  of  the  other  paste,  which  must  surpass  the  mold  a 
little,  you  must  wet  the  edge  of  the  cover.  Slake  a  sort  of  bordure  around  the 
pie,  and  decorate  the  top  Avith  a  few  leaves,  which  you  cut  out  of  paste;  make 
a  hole  in  the  center  of  the  pie,  and  put  a  kind  of  chimney  made  of  thick  paper 
in  that  hole;  when  you  see  the  juice  boil  out  of  that  chimney,  the  pie  is  cooked. 
A  six-pound  pie  takes  two  and  one  half  hours  to  cook;  to  prevent  burning, 
put  a  few  sheets  of  paper,  which  you  have  soaked  in  "butter,  all  around  on  top 
of  the  pie  before  putting  it  into  the  oven;  when  cooked,  take  out  of  the  oven  and 
let  it  cool  off;  when  cold,  fill  the  hole  in  the  center  with  good  melted  meat 
jelly.  These  pies  are  choice  cold  dishes.  They  can  be  made  with  every  kind  of 
game,  such  as  grouse,  ducks,  etc.  They  are  generally  served  after  entrees, 
always  before  the  roast;  are  equal  to  foie  gras,  and  are  served  with  great 
advantage  at  receptions,  dinners  and  suppers. 

Paul  Resal,  Chef  of  White  House  (Executive  Mansion),  Washiugton,  D.  C. 

FOIE  GRAS  A   LA  CHATEAU  DOEE. 
Take  an  opened  tin  of  foie  gras,  and  stand  it  in  the  bain-marie  until  the 
contents  are  quite  hot;  then,  when  ready  to  serve,  turn  it  out  onto  a  plate,  and 


cut  it  into  portions,  and  dish  it  up.  as  in  engraving,  on  a  border  of  chicken  or 
rabbit  farce,  -oith  a  small  round  of  fried  bread  in  the  center;  garnish  the  foie 
gras  with  financiere  that  has  been  warmed  in  the  bain-marie,  and  with  hatelet 
skewers;  pour  good  espagnol  sauce  around  the  dish,  then  place  some  cooked 
button  mushrooms  at  each  end  of  the  dish,  and  serve  hot  as  an  entree  for  a 
dinner  party. 


POULTRY  AND   GAME. 


109 


RABBIT  STE^^'. 

Tjike  a  couple  of  rabbits,  and  divid(>  them  iiilo  quarters,  tlour  theui,  aud  fry 
iu  butter;  then  put  them  into  a  stew-pau,  Avith  some  good  gravy;  season  with 
pepper,  salt  and  a  sprig  of  sweet  herbs;  eo\er  tliein  elose,  and  let  them  stew 
until  tender;  then  t.'ike  the  rabbit  out  in  a  deep  disli,  thicken  the  gravy  with 
flour  nnd  butter,  pour  over  the  rabbit. 

CEEAM  OF  KABBir  A  LA  DUXELLE. 

CrSme  de  Lapereau  d,  la  Duxelle. 

Take  a  rabbit-mold,  lay  it  open,  and  place  it  upon  crushed  ice  in  a  basin;  line 
both  sides  with  aspic  jelly  about  one  eighth  of  an  inch  thick,  and  Avhen  this  is 
set,  line  them  again  with  fawn-colored  chaudfroid  sauce  (see  recipe);  let  this  set. 
then  till  the  two  parts  of  the  mold  with  a  puree  of  rabbit,  as  below,  keeping  the 
mold  in  motion  Miiile  .ndding  tliis,  so  tliat  tlie  mixture  becomes  well  embedded. 
Take  the  contents  of  a  small  jar  of  pate  de  foie  gras,  and  with  a  hot,  wet  knife 
cut  it  througli  into  two  pieces;  place  one  piece  iu  the  center  of  the  puree  in  eacli 
side,  then  partly  close  the  mold,  and  pour  into  it  the  remaining  part  of  the 


rabbit  puree,  which  must  be  in  a  semi-liquid  state,  so  as  to  join  all  the  contents 
together;  close  the  mold  firmly  with  tlie  pegs,  i)ut  it  into  some  ice,  and  leave 
it  for  about  thirty  minutes,  Avhen  it  Avill  be  set;  when  ready  to  serve,  dip  the 
mold  into  hot  Avater,  and  turn  out  the  rabbit,  put  in  two  glass  eyes,  dish  it  on  a 
bed  of  finely  chopped  aspic  jelly,  and  garnish  it,  as  in  engraving,  with  little 
timbals,  as  below,  cooked  halves  of  artichoke  bottoms  that  are  seasoned  with  a 
little  salad-oil,  tarragon  vinegar,  chervil  and  tarragon,  and  serve  for  an  entree  or 
any  cold  collation. 

I'X/KEE  FOR  Cheam  OF  Rabt!it  A  LA  DuxELLE.— Pound  Until  smooth  one  pound 
of  cooked  rabbit,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  good  veloute  sauce,  one  ounce  of  fresh 
butter,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  thick  cream,  one  wine-glassful  of  sherry,  one  table- 
spoonful  of  brown  sauce,  a  dust  of  pepper  and  a  little  salt;  then  mix  with  one 
pint  of  good-flavored  stock  in  Avhich  one  ounce  of  gelatin  has  been  dissolved; 
rub  the  puree  through  a  tanmiy  or  flne  hair-sieve;  use  when  it  is  becoming  set. 

TiMBAi.s  FOR  Garnish  for  Cream  of  Rabbit  a  la  Duxelle.— Line  some 
fluted  dariol-molds  with  plain  aspic  jelly,  and  when  this  is  set,  fill  thein  Avith 
raw,  ripe  tomato  that  has  been  freed  from  seeds  and  skin  and  cut  into  tiny  dice, 
then  mix  with  a  little  cut  tarragon  and  chervil,  and  set  with  a  little  red-colored 
aspic  prepared  by  adding  a  little  carmine  to  ordinary  aspic. 


no 


POULTRY    AND    GAME. 


BLIND  HARE. 

3  pounds  of  veal,  minced  fine, 

1  pound  of  ham.  -with  lightly  beaten  eggs, 

2  pounds  of  minced  beef, 
1  pint  of  stale  bread-crumbs, 

Mix  all,  form  it  into  an  oval-shaped  loaf,  sprinkle  with  grated  bread-crumbs, 
put  it  into  the  oven,  and  bake  three  hours. 


1  tablespooufui  of  cinnamon, 

2  grated  nutmegs, 

1  tea  spoonful  of  sak, 
VL'  teaspoonful  of  pepper. 


FILLETS  OF  HARE  (LARDED)  AND.  ROAST  LARKS. 

Remove  the  back  fillets  ffom  the  hare,  free  them  from  the  fine  skin,  lard 
them  with  lardons  of  fat  bacon,  ti-im  tlie  lardons  evenly  with  a  pair  of  scissors, 
steep  the  fillets  in  warm  butter,  put  them  on  a  well-buttered  tin,  and  bake  them 
in  a  quick  oven  for  about  fifteen  minutes,  keeping  them  well  basted  while 
cooking;  then  take  up,  cut  them  into  nice  escallops  somewhat  slanting,  but  Ivcep 
them  in  their  natural  form  as  nearly  as  possible,  brusli  them  over  with  a  little 
warm  glaze;  dish  up  on  croutons  of  fried  bread  on  a  hot  dish;  garnish  around 
with  roast  larks  (allowing  one  to  each  person)  that  have  been  cooked  in  the 
same  manner  as  the  hare,  each  arranged  on  a  crouton  and  brushed  over  with  a 


little  warm  glaze;  garnish  the  dish  with  water-cress  that  has  been  picked,  well 
washed  and  dried,  seasoned  with  tarragon  and  chilli  vinegai',  a  little  salad-oil, 
finely  chopped  shallot,  a  little  mignonette  pepper  and  a  little  salt;  serve  with 
browned  bread-crumbs  and  courte  sauce  in  sauce-boats  for  second  course  or 
luncheon.  In  serving  this  dish,  one  fillet  of  hare  and  one  lark  and  a  portion  of 
the  cress  should  be  helped  to  each  guest. 

RABBIT  FRICASSEE. 

Skin  and  clean  carefully;  open  down  the  lireast,  let  it  lie  a  couple  of  hours 
in  a  pan  of  cold  water;  wipe  dry,  and  place  in  a  meat-pan;  season  well  with  salt 
and  pepper,  a  generous  lump  of  butter  and  a  dredge  of  flour;  pour  in  enough 
hot  Avater  to  keep  from  burning;  bake  half  an  hour,  and  baste  occasionally. 

BROILED  SQUIRREL. 

Skin  your  squirrels,  and  lay  them  in  salt-water  to  remove  the  blood;  remove 
the  head  and  feet  and  broil  whole;  season  ^^ith  salt,  pepper  and  butter;  serve 
with  currant  jam  or  grape  jelly. 


Chai'tek  VII. 


Meat,  when  nst-d  lor  soup,  should  be  put  ou  to  cook  in  eohl  water;  also  any 
salted  meat,  like  ham  or  corned  beef;  but  A\lKre  it  is  intended  to  be  used  as 
boiled  meat,  it  should  be  put  on  in  boilinjj;-hot  water,  so  as  to  harden  the  fibrine 
and  confine  the  juices  of  the  meat.  The  meat  should  in  all  cases  be  kept  under 
the  water.  Turn  it  frequently,  so  it  may  cook  on  all  sides.  It  should  boil  only 
gently.  A  pod  of  red  pepper  added  to  the  pot  will  keep  the  odor  of  boiling  from 
tilling  the  house.    Remove  all  scum  as  it  rises;  allow  twenty  minutes  to  a  pound. 

In  roasting  meat  in  ihe  oven,  it  should  be  frequently  basted;  this  is  done  l)y 
dipping  tlie  water  or  juices  in  the  roasting-pan  o\er  the  m(<at  with  a  large  spoon. 

The  fire  should  not  be  allowed  to  get  low  befoi-e  replenishing,  as  it  checks  the 
heat;  try  to  keep  the  tire  at  a  steady  Ik  at. 

In  broiling  meat,  the  gridiron  should  be  very  hot  before  putting  on  the  meat; 
as  soon  as  it  sears  or  scorches,  turn  over. 

Do  not  salt  your  meat  until  nearly  done,  as  it  extracts  the  juices. 

To  thaw  out  frozen  meats,  lay  them  in  cold  water,  which  should  be  done  only 
shortly  before  using. 

After  slicing  from  a  ham.  rub  the  cut  side  with  corn-meal,  as  this  prevents  the 
liam  from  becoming  rancid,  and  rubs  off  easily  when  needed  again. 

In  cooking  tough  meat  or  an  old  fowl,  add  a  pinch  of  soda  to  the  water  to 
make  it  tender. 

If  you  have  not  tripods  to  lay  in  your  roasting-pan  to  keep  the  meat  up  out 
of  the  juices,  lay  across  the  pan  some  clean  pieces  of  wood. 

Veal,  mutton  and  pork  will  keep  perfectly  fresh  and  good  for  weeks  without 
salt  or  ice,  in  warm  weather,  by  keeping  it  submerged  in  sour  milk,  changing 
the  milk  when  mold  appears;  rin.se  in  cold  water  when  wanted  for  use. 


112  MEATS. 

For  "curing  hams,  trim  nice  aild  smooth  when  thoroughly  cold  after  killing; 
pacli  in  salt  and  let  them  remain  for  Hyb  or  six  weeks,  then  take  them  up  and 
dip  them  into  boiling  brine;  then  rub  the  flesh  side  with  pulverized  black  pepper 
as  long  as  it  will  stick;  hang  in  a  dry  place. 

To  keep  hams  that  have  been  smoked,  rub  the  flesh  part  with  molasses,  then 
sprinkle  Avith  as  much  black  pepper  as  will  stick  to  the  molasses;  hang  them  up 
and  keep  dry'. 

To  prevent  meats  from  scorching,  keep  a  panful  of  water  sitting  in  the  oven; 
the  steam  arising  also  tends  to  make  the  meat  tender. 

Always  save  all  drippings  from  roasted  or  fried  meats  to  use  for  frying 
potatoes;  also  allow  the  water  from  boiling  meat  to  stand  until  the  next  day, 
and  remove  the  fat  from  tlie  top  to  your  dripping-jar;  never  allow  any  burned 
grease  of  any  kind  to  be  put  into  this  jar. 

In  broiling  meat  over  coals,  never  allow  them  to  smoke  the  least;  after  the 
cofils  have  burnt  dov/n  somewhat,  throw  on  a  handful  of  salt  to  deaden  the 
blue  flame  that  arises.  If  the  dripping  from  your  meat  takes  fire,  remove  from 
the  stove  to  cool  for  a  few. moments;  don't  try  to  blow  it  out,  as  there  is  danger 
of  burning  the  face. 

Have  a  tin  cover  made  at  your  tinner's  to  fit  into  your  dripping-pan  to  cover 
over  your  meats  and  poultry  while  cooking,  as  they  are  so  much  nicer  cooked 
in  this  way.    It  should  be  higii,  and  just  the  shape  of  the  pan  it  is  to  cover. 

Nice  lard  can  be  made  from  leaf-lard,  and  many  housekeepers  prefer  it; 
procure  it  at  the  butcher's,  and  fry  it  out  yourself;  a  teacupful  of  water  added 
will  keep  it  from  burning. 

To  preserve  sausages,  cut  and  roll  them  in  small,  thin  cakes,  and  fry  them 
until  well  done;  paciv  closely  in  jars,  and  cover  with  melted  lard  one  inch  thick; 
set  away  iu  a  cool  place,  and  you  will  have  nice,  sweet  sausage  all  spring  and 
summer. 

To  sweeten  salt  pork,  cut  as  many  slices  as  you  Avill  require  for  breakfast, 
and  soak  till  morning  in  sweet  milk  and  water,  then  rinse  until  the  water  is 
clear,  and  fry. 

A  beefsteak  can  be  well  cooked  in  hot  suet,  and  after  taking  out  the  steak, 
stir  a  spoonful  of  flour  in  the  pan,  pour  in  hot  water  and  let  it  boil,  and  you  have 
a  nice  gravy. 

Hub  flour  and  butter  together,  and  brown  iu  a  skillet ;  then  put  the  meat  gravy 
Avltli  it,  and  you  have  a  nice  gravy. 

TENDERLOIN  OF  BEEF  (AVEST  HOTEL  STYLE).  , 

Cut  out  of  a  good  tenderloin  of  beef  six  steaks  one  inch  thick,  and  season 
with  pepper  and  salt;  broil  them  on  a  good  charcoal  fire  for  six  minutes  (three 
minutes  on  each  side).  Broil  six  large,  fresh  mushrooms,  seasoned  with  salt, 
pepper,  ground  thyme  and  ground  sage.  Cut  out  of  three  large  tomatoes  six 
slices  as  thick  as  possible,  fry  them  in  butter.  Make  a  good  bearnaise  sauce;  put 
the  bearnaise  sauce  on  a  hot  platter,  put  the  fried  tomatoes  on  top  of  the  sauce, 
and  the  tenderloin  on  top  of  the  tomatoes,  then  the  mushrooms  on  top  of  the 
tenderloin;  pour  over  the  mushrooms  a  good  brown  gravy;  finish  with  a  glassful 
of  champagne,  and  add  a  tablespoonful  of  chopped  parsley. 
A.  J.  Pillauet,  Chef  West  Hotel,  Minneapolis,  Minnesota. 


MEATS. 


113 


HAMBUIUiH  STEAK. 

Chop  one  i)oiiiul  of  beef  wllli  a  liltk-  s'.'U'Ik'  'HKi  ouo  onion,  season  Avith  salt  and 

pt'ltper,  form  into  small  cakes  in  the  shape  of  codfish  balls,  flour  them  and  fry 

them  medium  done;  serve  with  brown  sauce. 

Eugene    Stiiy vesaiit  Howard,  Member   of    the   Universal  Cookery   and  Food   Associ- 
ation, London,  E)ugland,  and  Chef  de  Cuisine,  Louisville  Hotel. 

RAW  HAMBURCili   STEAK,  OR  STEAK   A   LA    TARTAKE. 

Cliop  one  ponnfl  of  lean  beef,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  malio  into  small 
cakes  with  a  cavitj  in  the  center,  inio  which  i)ut  a  yolk  of  one  egg  witliout 
breaking  it;  serve  wUli  chopped  onions  on  one  side  of  the  dish  and  capers  on  the 
otlier. 

Eugene  Stuyvesant  Howard,  Chef  de  Cuisine,  Louisville  Hotel. 

SIRLOIN  OF  BEEF  A  LA  POMI'ADOUli. 

Aloymi  de  Boeuf  d  la  Pompadour. 

Take  a  piece  of  well-hung  sirloin  of  beef,  trim  it  neatly,  remove  all  the  unnec- 

essrsry   fat,   and   skin   the  top   side   half  the   depth   of  the   meat,   then   lard   the 

skinned  part  witli  lardous  of  fat  bacon  in  four  or  five  rows,  according  to  tlie  size 


of  tlie  sirloin,  tie  it  up  to  keep  it  in  a  nice  form,  put  into  a  well-buttered  braising- 
pan,  and  braise  with  vegetables,  thus:  Season  the  beef  with  pepper  and  salt, 
put  into  the  stew-pan  two  ounces  of  butter,  one  large  sliced  carrot,  two  or  three 
sliced  onions,  a  few  slices  of  turnip  and  celery,  herbs,  such  as  thyme,  bay-leaf, 
parsley,  marjoram,  basil,  four  or  five  cloves,  one  blade  of  mace,  six  black  pepper- 
cerns;  put  the  meat  on  top.  AVhen  coolced.  take  up,  and  brush  over  with  a 
little  warm  glaze,  remove  the  string,  and  i)Iace  the  beef  on  a  hot  dish;  garnish 
arotuid  with  turnip  cups  (see  recipe)  and  bunches  of  cooked  carrots  and  turnips; 
pour  the  sauce  around  the  dish,  and  serve  for  a  remove  for  dinner  or  luncheon. 
Saitce  for  SiriLoiN  OF  Beef  a  la  Pompadour.— Take  the  gravy  from  the 
braise,  remove  all  the  fat,  and  mix  wWh  the  gravy  two  ounces  of  toiuato  pulp 
tliat  has  been  )nixed  with  two  ounces  of  butter  and  one  and  one  half  ounces  of 
arrow-root;  stir  all  together  until  it  boils,  color  with  a  few  drops  of  carmine, 
HaAor  witli  a  wine-glassful  of  sherry  and  a  pinch  of  pepper. 

Carrots  and  Ti'rnips  for  Sirt.oin  of  Reef  a  la  roMPADOUR. — Take  some 
peeled  and  cleansed  carrots  and  tiu'nips.  and  cut  them  out  with  a  plain  round 
vegetable-scoop;  put  them  separately  into  cold  water,  bring  to  a  boil,  then  strain 
and  rinse  them,  and  braise  them  in  stock  until  tender. 


114  MEATS. 

FILLET  OF    BEEF  A   LA  GODAED  (ORNAMENTAL). 

This  remove  is  one  of  tlie  most  elegant  whieli  can  be  served  at  a  sumptuous 
dinner  or  can  be  presented  to  tlie  guest.  Two  good,  small  fillets  of  beef,  but  not 
too  fat,  are  neatly  trimmed,  larded  and  braised  in  a  good  stoclt.  When  done, 
glazed  and  of  a  nice  color,  they  are  carved  into  slices;  that  is  to  say,  this  carving- 
stops  some  distance  from  tlie  extremities  and  penetrates  no  further  than  three 
parts  of  the  meat.  The  carved  pieces  are  put  back  in  their  places.  These  fillets 
are  dished  up  on  a  fond  of  cooked  rice,  cut  into  long  shape,  and  on  an  inclined 
plane  on  both  sides.  Between  the  two  fillets  are  dished  three  quenelles,  with 
pieces  of  truffles  large  enough  to  'fill  the  empty  space  under  these  quenelles.  At 
the  bottom  of  the  dish  is  arranged  a  beautifid  ring  of  slices  of  sweetbreads, 
partly  crumbed  Avith  bread  and  partly  with  truffles;  they  are  done  in  clarified 
butler.  Between  the  quenelles  and  the  chain  formed  by  the  sweetbreads  are 
distributed  groups  of  mushrooms.  At  both  ends  of  the  dish  some  fine  whole 
truffles  surround  tlie  top  of  the  fillets;  this  garnish  is  similarly  repeated  on  the 
other  side  of  the  dish.  Between  the  two  fillets,  and  in  the  center  of  the  dish, 
a  pretty  garnish-cup  is  fixed  on  the  foundation.  I'his  cup  may  be  of  metal, 
masked  with  English  or  Nouilles  paste,  and  ornamented;  it  may  also  be  made 
\A-ith  bread,  or  even  cut  out  of  large  turnips,  wliich  in  the  north  of  Europe 
become  very  large,  white,  and  with  little  skill  some  elegant  cups  can  be  made 
out  of  these  turnips,  to  use  with  so  rich  and  elegant  a  remove.  A  good,  light 
espagnole  sauce  must  be  served;  that  is,  not  too  thick,  but  juicy,  beaten  well  and 
thinned  with  good  stock  and  some  Madeira,  as  well  as  with  the  liquor  of  the 
truffles.    This  same  is  sent  up  separately. 

Louis  C.  Zerega,  Chef  Hotel  Ponce  de  Leon,  St.  Augustine,  Florida. 

SMOTHERED  BEEF,  WITH  SAVORY  RICE  BORDER. 

Cut  two  pounds  of  round  of  beef  into  one-inch  cubes,  put  into  a  bean-pot,  with 
a  slice  of  onion,  and  cook  (closely  covered)  in  the  oven  two  hours;  cook  slowly 
at  first;  pick  over  and  wash  one  cupful  of  rice;  put  one  can  of  tomatoes  on  to 
boil  with  four  cloves,  simmer  ten  minutes,  strain;  cook  the  rice  with  the  strained 
tomatoes  in  a  double  boiler  until  tender,  add  one  heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter, 
one  teaspoonfnl  of  salt  and  a  dash  of  pepper,  and  a  pinch  of  curry  if  liked;  put 
the  meat  in  the  center  of  a  platter  and  arrange  the  rice  as  a  border.  This  is  an 
inexpensive  and  savory  dish. 

Mrs.  Althea  Somes,  Teacher  of  Cookery,  Manual  Training  School,  Boston,  Mass. 

BEEF  LOAF. 

Grl.id  on  a  sausage-grinder,  or  let  the  butcher  chop  for  you,  three  pounds  of 
lean  beef  and  one  fourth  of  a  pound  of  salt  pork.    Add  to  it 

1  teacupful  of  cracker-crumbs,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  salt, 

3  well-beaten  eggs,  1  teaspoonf  ul  of  pepper, 

Sage  to  taste,  mix  well,  and  pack  tightly  in  a  small  bread-pan  which  has  been 
well  greased,  sprinkle  crumbs  over  the  top,  Imke  two  and  one  half  hours;  baste 
Avhile  baking  with  one  tablespoonful  of  butter  dissolved  in  one  cupful  of 
boiling  water;  slice  when  cold.  Another  way  to  bake  it  is  to  mold  into  a  loaf  and 
put  it  under  press  for  an  hour,  then  place  in  the  meat-pan  and  cover  the  loaf 
entirely  with  hot  water;  and  bake  until  the  -^  ater  has  all  cooked  away. 


MEATS.  115 

FILLET  OF  BEEF  A  LA  JUSSIENNE. 

Filet  de  Boeuf  (i  la  Jussienne, 
Remove  all  the  imuecessary  fat  from  a  fillet  of  beef,  and  lard  the  top  with 
lardons  of  fat  bacon:  trim  these  eA'enlj'  with  a  pair  of  scissors,  and  tie  the  fillet 
up  with  pieces  of  thin  string.  Pur  into  a  stew-pan  the  vegetables— one  sliced 
carrot,  two  or  three  sliced  onions,  turnips,  a  little  marjoram,  basil,  four  or  five 
cloves,  mace,  peppercorns,  celery  and  some  herbs;  cover  over  Avith  a  buttered 
paper,  put  the  lid  on  the  pan,  and  stand  it  on  the  stove  for  fifteen  to  twenty 
minutes,  then  add  one  fourth  pint  of  sherry  and  one  fourth  pint  of  good  stock, 
and  coolv  in  a  moderate  oven,  allowing  twenty  jninutes  for  each  pound  of  meat 
after  the  gravy  has  l)oiled;  during  coolving,  keep  it  well  l)asted,  and  add  more 
stock  as  that  in  the  pan  reduces.  When  cooked,  put  the  fillets  on  a  baking-tin, 
brush  it  over  with  a  little  warm  glaze,  return  it  to  the  oven  for  about  ten 
minutes;  then  remove  the  strings,  put  two  or  three  hatelet  skewers  into  the 
fillet,  and  dish  up,  and  garnish  Avith  slices  of  coolced  tomatoes,  button  mush- 
rooms, small  braised  button  onions,  and  serve  with  sauce  prepared  as  below, 
in  a  sauce-boat. 


Sauce  for  Fillet  of  Beef  a  la  .Tussienne.— Take  the  gravy  from  the  braised 
fillet,  removing  all  the  fat,  and  put  it  into  a  stew-pan,  with  the  pulp  of  three 
tomatoes  (made  by  passing  them  through  a  sieve),  one  ounce  of  glaze,  one  half 
pint  of  brown  sauce  and  one  fourth  pint  of  sherry;  boil  this  down  to  one  fourth 
part,  tammy,  and  mix  with  two  or  three  fresh  muslirooms  that  have  been 
washed  and  chopped  fine,  and  a  few  drops  of  carmine;  reboil  for  ten  minutes, 
then  tammy,  and  use. 

MINIONS  OF  TENDERLOIN  PELISSIER. 

Cut  from  a  tenderloin  two  small,  well-pared,  round-shaped  steaks;  season 

with  salt  and  pepper,  and  marinate  them  for  one  hour  in  a  dish  Avith  a  little 

olive-oil  to  soften  them.     Saute  (stew)  them  on  both  sides  in  butter,  and  when 

cooked,  drain,  and  roll  them  in  a  good  half  glaze  placed  in  anotlier  stew-pan. 

Cover  the  bottom  of  the  dish  with  bearnaise  sauce,  and  dress  the  minions  on 

top:  on  each  of  these  lay  a  small  portion  of  ptiree  (soup)  of  articlioke  bottoms, 

and  at  each  side  of  tlie  dish  place  two  stuffed  and  baked  French  mushrooms; 

pour  the  stock  from  the  sauteuse  (stew)  over  the  meat. 

A.  Gallier,  President  "  Soclete  Culinaire  de  New  York,"  and  Chef  of  Hotel  Brunswick, 
Fiftli  Avenue,  New  York. 


116  MEATS. 

POT-BAKED  BEEF. 

Take  a  piece  of  meat — crossecl-rib  is  best — put  a  slice  of  bacon  or  some  lard 
into  the  bottom  of  tbe  pot,  then  tlie  meat,  and  fill  np  with  water  till  the  meat 
is  covered;  then  take  two  onions,  some  peppercorns,  cloves,  bay-leaves,  one 
carrot  and  a  crust  of  brown  bread,  salt  and  some  vinegar;  throw  all  of  this  in 
over  the  beef;  keep  the  pot  well  covered;  fill  up  with  more  hot  water  if  it  boils 
down,  and  let  it  boil  three  hours;  then  broAvn  a  tablespoonful  of  flour,  with  some 
butter,  thin  the  gravy,  and  let  it  boil  up  once  more  with  the  meat;  then  put  the 
beef  into  a  deep  dish,  and  strain  the  gravy  over  it;  add  more  vinegar  to  taste. 

FILLETS  OF  BEEF  A  LA  EIGA. 
Filets  de  Boeuf  d,  la  Riga. 
1'ake,  for  six  to  eight  persons,  one  pound  of  fillet  of  beef,  and  cut  it  into  thin 
slices;  bat  these  out  with  a  wet  choppiug-knife,  season  them  with  a  little  pepper 
and  salt,  and  place  a  thin  slice  of  fat  bacon  (cut  to  the  same  shape  as  the 
fillets)  on  each;  thinly  mask  this  bacon  with  beef  farce,  using  a  forcing-bag 
and  plain  pipe  for  it,  and  on  the  farce  place  a  thin  slice  or  two  of  button  mush- 
rooms or  truffles,  and  roll  up  the  fillets  in  cylinder  shapes,  with  farce,  etc., 
inside;  place  in  little  bands  of  buttered  paper,  and  tie  them  up  with  thin  string 
to  keep  them  in  proper  form.     Put  about  one  ounce  of  butter  into  a  stew-pan, 


with  two  or  three  slices  of  carrot  and  turnip,  a  little  celery,  a  bunch  of  herbs 
(thyme,  parsley  and  baj-leaf),  one  or  two  sliced  onions  and  six  or  eight  pepper- 
corns; place  the  fillets  on  the  vegetables,  and  fry  all  together  for  about  fifteen 
minutes  with  the  lid  on  tlie  pan.  then  add  one  fourth  of  a  pint  of  good  stock, 
and  put  the  pan  into  the  oven;  braise  the  fillets  for  one  hour,  occasionally  basting 
them  while  cooking,  then  take  up  and  remove  the  papers,  brush  the  fillets  over 
with  a  little  warm  glaze,  and  place  them  on  a  baking-tin  in  the  oven  for  another 
fom-  or  five  minutes  to  get  crisp;  dish  up  as  in  engraving,  and  garnish  with  slices 
of  (rooked  tomatoes  (see  recipe)  around  the  top  and  between  the  fillets  at  the 
bottom;  place  peas  in  the  center,  and  pour  espagnol  sauce  around  the  base. 

CORNED  OR  SMOKED  BEEF  TONGUE. 

Soak  the  tongue  twenty-four  hours  before  boiling,  which  requires  from  three 
to  four  hours,  according  to  size.  The  skin  should  always  be  removed  as  soon  as 
it  is  taken  from  the  pot.  An  economical  method  is  to  lay  the  .tongue,  as  soon  as 
the  skin  is  removed,  in  a  jar,  coiled  up,  with  the  tip  outside  the  root,  and  a 
weight  upon  it.  When  it  is  cold,  loosen  the  sides  with  a  knife,  and  turn  it  out. 
The  slices  being  cut  horizontally  all  around,  the  fat  and  lean  will  go  together. 


MEATS.  117 

STEAK  ItOAST. 

I'ake  a  round  of  steak,  poimd,  pepper  and  salt  it  well.     Make  a  dressing  of 
dry  bread-crumbs  and  spread  over  the  top  of  the  steak;  roll  it  up,  and  tie  with  a 
string,  put  into  a  pan,  and  roast  for  forty  minutes. 
Mrs.  D.  R.  Connell,  North  Lewisburgh,  Ohio. 

BAKED  BEEFSTEAK. 

Score  the  steak  well.     If  a  sniall  one,  put  into  a  pie-pan;  if  not  very  fat,  add 
bits  of  butter  to  it;  season  witli  salt  and  pepper,  and  grate  bread-crumbs  over  it; 
put  a  little  water  into  the  pan  to  keep  it  from  sticking.     Bake  about  twenty 
minutes,  unless  preferred  very  well  done. 
Miss  MoUie  K,  Springfield,  Ohio. 

POTTED  BEEF. 

The  beef  should  be  well  boiled,  and  all  the  fat  taken  off.  Chop  it  very  fiUe; 
season  Avith  salt,  pepper,  allspice  and  a  little  sage.  Melt  butter  enough  to  knead 
it  -well  together.  Paclv  it  closely  in  bowls  (to  turn  it  out  nicely),  and  pour  melted 
butter  over  it,  and  it  will  keep  a  week  in  cool  weather. 

CORNED  BEEF. 

100  pounds  of  meat,  4  pounds  of  sugar. 

4  quarts  of  coarse  salt,  4  ounces  of  saltpeter,  pulverized. 

Mix  the  sugar,  salt  and  saltpeter  well,  and  spread  it  between  the  layers  of 

meat. 

Miss  E.  C,  Hoosicli,  New  York. 

BOILED  CORNED  BEEF. 
Wash  it  well,  put  it  into  a  pot.  and  if  very  salty,  cover  well  with  cold  water; 
if  only  slightly  corned,  use  boiling  Avater;  sl^im  often  while  boiling,  and  allow 
at  least  one  half  hour  for  every  pound  of  meat.  If  it  is  to  be  eaten  cold,  do  not 
remove  as  soon  as  done,  but  allow  it  to  remain  in  the  liquor  until  nearly  cold; 
then  lay  it  in  shape  in  an  earthen  dish,  with  a  piece  of  board  upon  it,  and  press 
with  a  stone  or  a  couple  of  flat-irons. 

STUFFED  CORNED  BEEF. 

Take  a  piece  of  well-corned  rump  or  round,  nine  to  ten  pounds;  make  several 
deep  cuts  in  it;  fill  with  a  stuffing  of  a  handful  of  soaked  bread,  squeezed  dry,  a 
little  fat  or  butter,  a  good  pinch  of  cloves,  allspice,  pepper,  a  little  finely  chopped 
onion  and  a  little  marjoi-am  or  thyme;  then  tie  up  tightly  in  a  cloth  and  saturate 
it  with  vinegar;  boil  about  three  hours. 

JELLIED  MEAT. 

Boil  a  shank  of  meat  five  or  six  hours,  separate  the  bone  and  fat  from  the 
meat  and  gristle,  tear  the  meat  into  shreds,  and  cut  up  the  gristle.  When  the 
liquor  is  cold,  skim  off  the  fat,  and  add  enough  of  it  to  the  meat  to  make  the  con- 
sistency that  of  soft  hash.  Add  salt,  pepper,  mace  and  allspice  to  taste,  and  cook 
fifteen  minutes,  stirring  constantly.  Yeal  can  be  used  in  tlie  same  way. 
E.  A.  Mordy,  Newton  Lower  Falls,  Massachusetts. 


US  MEATS. 

MEAT  BliUNSWICK  STEW. 
I*ut  lialf  a  gallon  of  water  into  j'our  dinner-pot.    Add 
A  small  quantity  of  red  pepper,         3  tomatoes,  pared, 
%  teaspoonful  of  black  p<^pper,  2  slices  of  lean  or  shoulder  meat, 

1  tablespoonful  of  salt,  1  pint  of  Irish  potatoes,  pared, 

1  onion,  cut  up  fine. 
Boil  about  one  half  hour;  then  sift  about  one  and  one  half  pints  of  flour,  add 
a  little  salt,  dip  in  some  of  the  boiling  Avater,  and  make  the  dough  rather  stiff. 
Let  it  cool  .a  little,  and  then  work  it  Avith  the  hands  until  smooth;  roll  out  very 
thin,  cut  into  small  dimiplings  with  a  knife,  put  them  into  your  stew,  and  boil 
five  or  ten  minutes  longer. 

S.  Webster,  Oak  Forest,  Virginia. 

LITTLE  CREAMS  OP  BEEF. 
Petitcs  Pahis  de  Bocuf. 
Butter  some  little  boml>-molds,  and  sprinkle  them  all  over  with  finely  chopped 
button  mushrooms  and  chopped  raw  green  parsley  from  which  all  the  moisture 
has  been  pressed;  then  fill  them  with  beef  farce  prepared  as  below,  and  put  them 
into  a  stew-pan;  place  a  piece  of  paper  between  them  and  the  stew-pan;  pour  in 
boiling  water  to  about  three  fourths  of  the  depth  of  the  molds;  watch  the  water 


reboil;  then  draw  the  pan  to  the  edge  of  the  stove,  place  on  the  cover,  and  let 
the  little  creams  steam  for  about  fifteen  minutes.  When  poached,  turn  out  of 
the  mold,  and  dish  on  a  potato  border,  and  with  a  forcing-bag  and  rose-pipe 
garnisli  the  top  of  each  cream,  as  in  engraving,  with  a  puree  of  potato;  pour 
white  mushroom  sauce  (sec  recipe)  around  the  base  of  the  dish,  and  serve  for  an 
entree. 

Beef  Farce  for  Little  Creams  of  Beef.— Pound  ten  ounces  of  lean  beef 
until  quite  smooth:  then  pound  four  ounces  of  panard,  and  mix  both;  add  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  thick  reduced  espaguol  sauce,  a  few  drops  of  carmine,  a  dust 
of  pepper,  a  pinch  of  salt,  one  ounce  of  good  butter  and  two  and  one  half  eggs; 
work  into  a  smooth  paste,  rub  through  a  wire  sieve,  then  mix  in  two  tablespoon- 
fuls of  cream,  and  use  by  means  of  a  forcing-bag  and  plain  pipe. 

DRIED  BEEF  FRIZZLED  IN  CREAM. 
Chip  the  beef  as  thin  as  paper  with  a  very  sharp  knife.    Melt  in  a  frying-pan 
butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  stir  the  beef  about  in  it  for  two  or  tlu-ee  minutes,  dust 
in  a  little  flour,  add  one  lialf  teacupful  of  rich  cream,  boil,  and  serve  in  a  covenvl 
dish. 


MEATS. 


119 


FKESii  r,i:i-:F  oj:  siii<:i:i'S  T()x\(;ues. 

I'roctire  four  or  fivo  small  tonjiucs  at  the  bulchor's,  wasli  thoroiiijjlily,  put  ou 

with  cold  water  to  cover  and  a  little  salt,  ami  boil  until  very  tender;  tiil<e  out 

and  remove  the  slvin,  then  put  into  a  stone  jar  and  cover  witli  hot  spiced  vin- 

CRar.     These  are  nice  to  have  on  hand  lor  teas.     Will  keep  well  three  or  four 

•weeks. 

Christie  Irving. 

I5()ILKD  OX-T()N(ilIE  A  LA  DORNA. 

Lawjiic  (Ic.  Jiociif  Jiouvillie  a  Id  Doriia. 
Take  a  pickled  ox-ton.nue  that  has  been  in  soak  for  twelve  hours,  i)ut  it  into 
a  stew-i)an  with  sullicient  cold  water  to  cover  it,  add  two  or  tliree  cleansed 
carrots,  also  onions,  a  bunch  of  herbs  (thyme,  parsley,  bay-leaf,  basil,  mar- 
joram), a  stick  of  celery,  two  leeks,  twenty-four  peppercorns  (black  and  white), 
three  blades  of  mace  and  twelve  cloves,  all  tit-d  tojicther  in  a  [)iece  of  muslin; 
brinj;-  to  a  boil,  remoAe  the  scum,  and  let  it  simmer  for  two  and  one  half  to  tliree 
houi's;  then  take  up,  press  into  shajx',  place  a  lai'ije  skewer  throufi'h  the  root  and 
one  through  the  tip  of  the  tongue,  and  put  it  aside  in  the  larder  until  next  day. 


Then  take  U]),  and  with  a  sharp-pointed  knife  trim  off  all  the  outsi(h>  fat  part, 
put  it  again  into  a  large  stew-pan,  pour  over  it  a  little  cooking  sherry  and  about 
out"  pint  of  good,  rich  clear  gravy,  and  simmer  ii  for  one  hour;  then  take  up  the 
tongue  onto  a  hot  dish,  brush  it  all  over  with  good  bright  glaze,  place  a  frill 
aioun<l  the  root,  and  serve  for  a  remove,  with  the  prepared  ragout  arranged  on 
the  dish,  for  dinner  or  for  luncheon  or  in  the  second  course,  using  while  quite  hot. 
lL\(;'ouT  i'on  Ox-tongie  a  i.a  Dorna.— Put  the  gravy  in  Avhich  the  tongue 
was  braised  into  a  steAV-pan,  with  one  pint  of  thick  espagnol  sauce,  one  teaspoon- 
ful  or  arrow-root  that  is  mixed  with  a  little  gravy,  add  the  contents  of  a  large 
bottle  of  tinanciere  that  has  been  Avarmed  in  the  bain-marie,  a  bottle  of  truffles 
and  the  contents  of  a  small  tin  of  button  mushrooms;  stir  all  together  until 
boiling,  and  serve  Avith  the  tongue. 

RAGOUT  OF  VEAL  A  L  V   BOURLIER. 

[Emilie  Bonrlier  is  tlie  acknowledged  goimnet  of  Louisville,  Kentucky.] 
Take  one  pound  of  veal,  and  slice  it  very  thin,  add  one  veal  kidney,  also 
sliced  very  fine;  put  into  a  saucepan,  with  two  ounces  of  butter  and  one  chopped 
onion,  and  fry  until  nearly  done;  fiour  it,  stir,  and  add  enough  broth  to  cover  it; 
let  it  simmer  for  one  half  hour,  then  add  tAvo  medium-sized  potatoes  cut  into 
small  dice  (potatoes  cooked),  boil  it  up.  and  serve  Avirh  a  little  hashed  parsley 
on  top. 

Eugene  Ktuy  vesant  Howard,  Clief  de  Cuisine,  Louisville  Hotel. 


120  MEATS. 

VEAL  LOAF. 

Have  the  butcher  chop  three  pounds  of  veal  aud  one  half  pouud  of  salt  pork 
very  flue,  aud  add  to  it 

3  eggs,  6  small  crushed  crackers, 

2  tablespooufuls  of  milk.  1  tablespoouful  of  salt, 

1  tablespoouful  of  pepper,  Butter  the  size  of  a  liickory-uut. 

Mix  it  all  well;  make  it  into  long  rolls,  put  bits  of  butter  over  them,  and 
l)ake  t'\^-o  hours,  basting  often  with  the  gravy  of  water  and  butter  slightly 
seasoned;  Avhen  cold,  slice. 

Mrs.  M.  A.  Tovvnsley,  Cedarville,  Ohio. 

VEAL  CUTLETS   PIQUES. 

Trim  five  or  six  cutlets,  lard  them  on  one  side  with  thin  slices  of  bacon, 
arrange  them  in  a  stew-pan,  the  bottom  of  wiiich  jou  have  covered  with  minced 
carrots  and  onions;  salt,  and  sprinkle  AAath  a  little  melted  butter,  moisten  Avitli 
clear  broth,  alLnving  the  jelly  to  fall  on  the  meat;  moisten  again  with  the  same 
quantity,  and  let  it  boil  down  in  the  same  way;  moisten  a  little  more,  and  finish 
cooking  the  cutlets  at  the  mouth  of  the  oven  at  ni.odorate  heat.  By  sprinkling 
them  often  with  their  .luice,  they  ought  to  acquire  a  fine  color.  Dress  them  with 
their  juice,  strained  aud  skimmed.  Serve  separately  a  garnishing  of  puree  or 
tomato  sauce. 

Louis  Marclie,  Chef  of  Burnet  House,  Cincinnati,  Ohio. 

BIIEAST  OF   VEAL  (VIENNx\  STYLE). 

Bone  a  breast  of  veal,  refill  with  the  dressing  given  in  the  recipe  for  dressing 
for  foAvl,  aud  sew  it  up;  braise  it  in  a  very  slow  oven,  basting  it  as  often  as  con- 
venient. Chop  the  bones,  and  roast  the  same  with  two  sliced  onions,  a  little 
garlic,  one  carrot,  a  little  celery,  two  baj'-leaves  and  one  teaspoonful  of  whole 
black  pepper  until  brown.  Cover  wilh  Avhite  broth,  and  let  this  simmer  for 
about  an  hour,  then  strain  it  over  the  veal,  aud  let  it  simmer  for  one  half  hour 
in  a  covered  vessel;  then  serve. 

Eugene  Stuyvesant  Howard,  Member  of  tlie  Universal  Coolcery  and  Food  Association, 
London,  England,  and  Chef  de  Cuisine,  Louisville  Hotel. 

VEAL  RESSOLES,  WITH  TOMATO  SAUCE. 

Chop  cold  veal  very  fine,  add  one  half  the  quantity  of  cracker-crumbs,  season 

Avith  salt,  pepper,  sage  and  onion-juice;  naoisten  with  beaten  egg,  and  shape  into 

round  balls;  put  on  a  baking-tin,  with  a  bit  of  butter  on  top.  and  broAvn  in  a  hot 

oven. 

Mrs.  Althea  Somes,  Teacher  of  Cookery,  Manual  Training  School,  Boston,  Mass. 

^'EAL  CROQUETTES. 

2  pounds  of  chopped  broiled  veal,  %  cupful  of  cream, 
1  tablespoouful  of  butter.  2  eggs, 

1  slice  of  grated  brown  bread,  The  juice  of  one  lemon, 

Salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 
Malve  this  into  balls,  and  fry. 
Mrs.  Samuel  Hart,  Marietta,  Ohio. 


MEATS.  121 

VEAL   AND   HAM   PIE. 

Trim  the  veal  and  ham  into  t'soaUops,  and  season  with  peppor  and  salt  in 
modt  ration;  next  chop  a  liandful  of  mnslirooms  and  some  parsU'.v  vory  lino,  and 
pnt  tlicm  into  a  small  stow-pan,  with  a  small  pat  ol"  bnttov  and  one  shallot,  also 
clK»pi>i'd  tine;  fry  these  lijihtly  over  the  lire,  then  add  nearly  one  pint  of  veloute 
sauce  or  s'ood  stoclc;  boil  the  wliole  for  live  minutes,  and  pour  it  into  the  pie; 
place  six  yolks  of  hard-boiled  esfis  in  the  cavities,  cover  with  puff  paste;  balco 
the  pie  for  one  and  one  half  hours,  and  serve. 

Louis  C  Zerega,  Clief  Hotel  Ponce  de  Leon,  St..  Augustine,  Florida. 

LITTLE  TONGUES  IN  CIIAUDFKOID. 
Petites  Lavgues  en  Chaudfroid. 
Take  one  pound  of  raw  ra))bit,  veal  or  chicken,  one  half  pound  of  fresh  fat 
and  lean  pork  or  ham,  one  fourth  of  a  pound  of  panard  and  one  tablespoonful 
of  thick  bechamel  sauce;  pound  these  and  rub  throush  a  fine  wire  sieve,  then 
mix  in  a  basin  with  four  raw  yolks  of  ejigs  and  a  pinch  of  salt  and  pei)per;  ;idd 
to  it  two  ounces  of  chopped  lean  ham  or  tongue,  two  chopped  truffles,  four 


button  mushrooms  and  two  tal)lespoonfuls  of  liver  fan-e.  Butter  some  little 
tons'ue-molds,  and  by  nieans  of  a  forcing-bag  and  a  large,  plain  pipe  till  up  the 
molds  with  the  mixture,  tlien  place  them  in  a  saute-pan,  s])rinkle  over  tliem  a 
little  sherry,  and  cook  in  a  moderate  oven  for  about  fifteen  minutes,  with  a  well- 
buttered  paper  over;  keep  them  well  basted  Avith  sherry  Avhile  cooking,  then  take 
up  and  set  them  aside  until  cold;  turn  out,  mask  them  with  brown  cliaudfroid 
sauce,  after  which  glaze  them  over  Avith  a  little  liquid  aspic  jelly;  arrange  them 
on  a  dish  on  a  border  of  rice  and  a  centerpiece  of  the  same  to  vest  them  against, 
garnish  with  chopped  aspic  jelly  and  a  hatelet  skewer,  and  serve  for  a  cold 
entree  or  cold  collation. 

BROILED   VEAL   CUTLETS. 

Trim  evenly;  sprinkle  salt  and  pepper  on  both  sides;  dip  into  melted  butter, 
and  place  upon  the  gridiron  over  a  clear  fire;  baste  while  broiling  with  melted 
butter,  turning  over  t-hree  or  four  times.  Serve  with  nu>lted-l)utler  sauce  or 
tomato  sauce. 


122  MEATS. 

KOAST  YEAL. 

A  shoulder  of  veal  Avoighing  live  or  six  poimds  will  require  two  hours  for 
cooking.  jNIake  a  dressing  the  same  as  lor  a  turkey,  and  pile  it  In  one  corner 
of  the  dripping-pan;  sprinkle  a  little  flour,  pepper  and  salt  over  the  meat,  and 
cover  it  with  another  pan.  Keep  a  little  warm  water  in  the  pan,  and  one  half 
hour  before  serving,  remove  the  upper  pan,  to  allow  the  meat  to  broAvn  nicely. 
Serve  with  mint  sauce. 

EGGED  YEAL  HASH. 

Chop  fine  remnants  of  cold  roast  veal;  moisten  with  the  gravy  or  Avaler: 
V  lien  hot,  break  into  it  three  or  four  eggs,  according  to  the  quantity  of  veal; 
if  to  your  taste,  shake  in  a  little  parsley.  Should  jou  lack  quantity,  one  half 
cupful  of  fine  stale  bread-crumbs  is  no  disadvantage. 

CALF'S  LIYER  AND  BACON. 

2  or  3  pounds  of  liver,  A  small  piece  of  butter. 

Bacon,  Flour. 

Pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  lemon-juice, 

Vi  pint  of  water. 
Cut  the  liver  into  thin  slices,  and  cut  as  many  slices  of  bacon  as  there  are  of 
liver;  fry  the  bacon  first,  and  put  that  on  a  hot  disli  before  the  fire.  Fry  the 
liver  in  the  fat  which  comes  from  the  bacon,  after  seasoning  it  with  pepper  and 
sail,  and  dredging  over  it  a  very  little  flour;  turn  the  liver  occasionally  to 
prevent  its  burning,  and  when  done,  lay  it  around  the  dish  with  a  piece  of  bacon 
belAveen  each;  pour  away  the  bacon-fat.  put  in  a  small  piece  of  butter,  dredge 
in  SI  little  flour,  add  the  lemon-juice  and  water,  give  one  boil,  and  pour  in  the 
middle  of  the  dish. 

BRAISED  CALF'S  LIYER. 

Take  a  calf's  liver,  Avash  and  lard;  cut  one  onion,  one  stalk  of  celery,  one 
carrot  and  one  turnip  into  slices,  put  them  into  a  braising-pan  or  a  deep  baking- 
pan;  lay  the  liver  on  the  vegetables,  pour  over  one  pint  of  soup  stock  or  hot 
water,  cover  the  pan,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  two  hours.  Take  up 
the  liver  and  lay  on  a  hot  dish;  put  one  ounce  of  butter  into"a  frying-pan  and  let 
brown,  then  stir  in  one  tablespoonful  of  flour,  mix  well,  sti-ain  the  gravy  into 
the  pan  in  Avhich  the  liver  was  cookwl.  and  pour  into  the  frying-pan;  stir  until 
it  boils,  season  with  one  tablespoonful  of  Worcestershire  sauce,  a  little  minced 
parsley,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste;  pour  over  the  liver,  and  serve. 

BRAISED  LIYER. 

Wash  the  liver;  cut  into  slices  one  onion,  one  stalk  of  celery,  several  bunches 
of  parsley,  one  carrot  and  one  turnip;  put  them  in  the  bottom  of  a  braising-pan. 
lay  the  liver  on  top.  add  one  pint  of  soup  stock,  cover  the  pan,  and  bake  in  a 
nuiderate  oven  for  tAvo  hours.  When  done,  take  up  the  liver,  put  one  table- 
spoonful of  butter  into  a  frying-pan.  stir  it  OA'er  the  fire  until  brown,  add  one 
tablespoonful  of  flom-;  strain  the  gravy  from  the  braising-pan  into  the  butter, 
find  stir  until  it  boils;  then  flavor  AA'ith  a  tablespoonful  of  mushroom  and  AA'alnut 
catchup  eacli;  pour  OA'er  the  liA'er.  and  serve. 


MEATS.  123 

COOKED  BKAINS. 

rut  the  calf's  or  slioop's  brains  in  stroui;  .salt-water  for  an  hour,  slcin  tlicni. 
put  thoni  into  a  saut-opan,  with  a  piece  of  salt  and  enough  cold  wati'r  to  cover 
tlieni,  one  tablespoonful  of  vine.uar.  tliree  or  four  blade  and  white  pepi)ercorns, 
a  spris  of  tliynie.  parsley  and  bay-leaf  and  one  sliced  onion,  and  let  them  come 
to  a  boil.  The  brains  cooked  tlius  will  Iceep  a\  ell,  and  can  be  used  in  many  ways, 
either  for  breakfast,  luncheon  or  dinner,  served  with  some  nice  sauce. 

LITTLE  CROrSTADES  OF  CALF'S  BllAIXS. 
Pctites  Croustades  de  Cer^velles  de  Veau. 
Take  some  little  molds  and  line  them  with  short  paste  about  one  eighth  of  an 
inch  thick,  pressing  the  paste  well  to  the  l)ottom  of  the  molds  to  get  them  into 
a  nice  shape;  prick  the  bottoms  Avell  Avith  a  fork  to  prevent  it  blistering;  trim 
the  edges  evenly,  and  line  the  paste  with  a  buttered  pai>er.  putting  the  buttered 
side  next  the  paste;  hll  up  the  inside  quite  full  with  raw  rice  or  tlour,  place  the 


molds  on  a  baking-tin,  and  cook  the  paste  in  a  moderate  oven  for  twenty  to 
thirty  minutes,  when  it  should  be  a  prettj'  fawn  color  and  perfectly  crisp:  then 
take  out  the  papers  and  rice,  remove  the  cases  from  the  molds,  and  return  them 
to  the  oven  for  a  few  minutes  to  dry;  when  ready  to  serve,  till  them  Avith  a 
ragout  prepared  as  below;  coA'er  over  each  cronstade  with  a  lid  of  puff,  and  bake 
a  light  fawn  color,  and  disli  up  on  a  piiper  as  shown  in  th.e  engraving.  Serve  for 
an  entree. 

Ragout  for  Croitst.\des  of  Calf's  Braiks.— Take  a  set  of  calf's  brains  and 
prepare  them  as  in  recipe  "Cooked  Brains."  al»ove;  then  cut  them  into  neat 
pieces  about  the  size  of  a  nickel  piece;  mix  them  into  a  good  hot,  thick,  creamy 
veloute  sauce,  add  a  little  chopped  parsley,  and  use  as  directed  above. 

STEWED  RABBIT,  LARDED. 

Take  a  rabbit,  a  few  strips  of  bacon,  rather  more  than  one  pint  of  good  broth 
or  stock,  a  bunch  of  savory  herbs,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and  a  thickening  of 
butter  and  flour.  Well  Avash  the  rabbit,  cut  it  into  quarters,  larding  them  Avith 
strips  of  bacon,  and  fry  them;  then  put  them  into  a  stcAV-pau,  Avitli  the  broth, 
herbs  and  a  seasoning  of  pepper  and  salt;  simmer  Aery  gently  until  the  rabbit 
becomes  tender,  then  strain  the  gravy,  tliicken  Avith  butter  and  hour,  give  it  one 
boil,  pour  it  over  the  rabbit;  garnish  aa  ith  slices  of  cut  lemon,  and  it  is  then 
ready  to  serve. 


124  '  MEATS. 

FRIED  CALF'S  BKAINS. 

Kemove  the  fibrous  membranes,  and  throw  into  cold  water,  in  which  mix  one 
half  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  one  teaspoonful  of  vinegar;  boil  five  minutes,  tal^e 
up  and  plunge  into  cold  water;  cut  into  slices,  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  dip 
into  beaten  egg,  and  then  into  grated  bread-crumbs,  and  fry  in  hot  butter. 

TIMBAL  OF  SWEETBREAD  A  LA  CZARINA. 
Timbale  de  Mis  cle  Veau  ct  la  Czarina. 
Prepare  a  pair  of  calf's  sweetbreads,  and  when  cool,  cut  one  of  them  into 
slices,  and  stamp  out  in  rounds  a  little  larger  than  a  dime  piece;  also  cut  out 
similar-sized  rounds  of  button  mushrooms  and  truflles.  Well  butter  and  line 
with  a  buttered  paper  a  mold,  and  arrange  these  rounds  alternately  all  over; 
then  cover  the  garnish  Avitli  a  layer  of  veal  farce  about  one  and  one  half  inches 
thick,  using  a  forcing-bag  and  plain  pipe  for  it;  smooth  this  over  with  a  wet,  hot 
spoon,  and  fill  up  the  center  of  the  mold  Avith  a  ragout,  as  below,  and  cover  the 
top  over  with  a  layer  of  farce  about  one  inch  thick;  then  place  the  mold  in  a 


stew-pan  containing  boiling  water,  which  should  come  about  half  way  up  the 
mold.  Watch  it  reboil,  and  steam  for  one  hour,  turn  out,  and  garnish  with  hot 
button  mushrooms  and  truffles,  pour  espagnol  sauce  around  the  base,  and  serve 
for  a  hot  entree. 

Ragout  for  Timbal  of  Sweetbread  a  la  Czarina.— Cut  up  the  trimmings 
from  the  sweetbread,  truffle  and  mushroom  into  little  square  pieces,  and  put 
them  into  a  sauce  prepared  as  follows:  Put  into  a  stew-pan  four  tablespoonfuls 
of  very  thick  tomato  sauce,  one  half  Avine-glassful  of  sherry,  one  ounce  of  glaze 
and  one  shallot  chopped  fine;  boil  down  to  half  the  quantity,  keeping  it  skimmed 
while  boiling,  add  the  trimmings,  and  put  away  on  ice  until  cold  and  set,  then 
use. 

FRIED  LIVER,  WITH  BROWN  SAUCE. 

Cut  the  liver  into  slices,  cover  with  boiling  water,  and  let  stand  five  minutes; 
take  out  of  the  water  and  wipe  dry;  dredge  with  flour,  salt  and  pepper.  Put 
two  slices  of  fat  bacon  into  a  frying-pan,  put  in  the  liver,  fry  brown  on  one  side, 
and  then  on  the  other.  Place  on  a  hot  dish  with  the  bacon,  cut  into  small  pieces, 
To  the  grease  in  the  pan  add  one  tablespoonful  of  flour,  and  stir  until  brown; 
pour  in  one  half  pint  of  soup  stock,  one  tablespoonful  of  Worcestershire  sauoe 
ftTif]  myshroom  catchup  each,  ^vith  sajt  to  taste;  pour  oypr  the  liver,  3.nd  serve. 


MEATS. 


ILT) 


SWEETBREAD  A  L'IMPERATKICE. 
liis  de  Veau  d  V Tmperatrice. 
I'jike  a  larce  sweetbread  or  two  moderate-sized  ones,  put  them  into  cold 
water,  witli  a  little  salt,  bring  to  a  boil,  then  rinse,  and  put  to  press  until  cold. 
Take  some  larding-  bacon,  and  lard  the  top,  trim  the  lardons  with  a  pair  of 
scissors,  place  the  sweetbread  in  a  buttered  paper,  and  tie  it  up;  put  it  into  a 
buttered  stew-pan,  Avitli  one  sliced  onion,  one  carrot,  a  few  slices  of  turnip,  a 
bunch  of  herbs  (bay-leaf,  thyme  and  parsley)  and  about  one  dozen  peppercorns; 
fry  for  fifteen  minutes  with  the  pan  covered;  tlieu  add  about  one  fourth  of  a 
pint  of  good  stock,  place  in  a  moderate  oven,  and  braise  for  about  one  hour, 
during  which  time  keep  basted,  freciuently  adding  inore  stock  as  that  in  the 
l)an  reduces.  When  cooked,  take  up,  remove  the  paper,  place  the  sweetbreads 
on  a  baking-tin.  and  brush  it  over  the  top  Avitli  a  little  warm  glaze;  put  it  into 
the  oven  again  for  about  ten  to  fifteen  minutes;  tlien  take  up,  and  brush  over 
again  with  a  little  thin  glaze,  and  arrange  on  a  border  ijrepared  as  below,  and 
shown  in  picture,  and  serve  a  good  supreme  sauce  around  the  dish,  and  macaroni 


.jyt^i^Slk^ 


prepared  as  below,  in  the  center  space  of  the  l*order  and  at  each  corner  of  the 
dish.    Serve  hot  for  an  entree  for  a  dinner  party. 

Macaroni  for  Sweetbread  a  l'Imperatrice. — Put  some  macaroni  to  cook 
in  boiling  water,  seasoned  with  a  little  salt,  for  one  half  hour,  then  strain  it. 
and  cut  it  into  lengths  of  about  one  half  inch,  sprinkle  with  a  little  grated 
Parmesan  cheese,  and  moisten  with  a  little  thick  cream,  season  with  a  dust  of 
pepper  made  hot  in  the  bain-marie,  and  use. 

Border  for  Sweetbread  a  l'Imperatrice.— Take  a  Breton  border-mold, 
butter  it,  and  tlien  line  it  entirely  Avith  rings  of  plainly  boiled  macaroni,  made 
by  cutting  it  crosswise  about  one  eighth  of  an  inch  thick,  then  by  means  of  a 
forcing-bag  and  large,  plain  pipe  fill  it  up  with  tlie  farce;  knock  the  mold  down 
on  the  table  to  alloAV  the  farce  to  sink  well  into  the  mold,  place  it  in  a  stew- 
pan  on  a  fold  of  paper,  cover  it  with  boiling  water,  place  it  over  the  fire,  watch 
the  contents  come  to  a  boil;  then  draw  aside,  and  poach  for  fifteen  minutes; 
then  turn  out,  and  use. 

J'arce  for  Border. — Pound  one  lialf  pound  of  cooked  lean  ham  until  smooth; 
then  pound  six  ounces  of  panard,  with  one  large  tablespoonful  of  brown  sauce, 
a  dust  of  cayenne  pepper,  one  ounce  of  butter  and  one  ounce  of  grated  Par- 
mesan cheese;  add  the  liam.  mix  with  three  whole  eggs  and  a  tablespoonful  of 
thick  creapi,  rub  through  a  fine  wire  sieve,  and  use. 


126 


MEATS. 


SWEETBREAD. 

Egg  and  broad-crumbs,  3  slices  of  toast, 

3  sweetbreads,  Oiled  butter, 

Brown  gravy. 
CLoose  large,  white  SAA^eetbreads;  put  them  into  AA^arm  Avater  to  draAV  out  the 
blood,  and  to  improve  tlieir  color;  let  them  remain  for  rather  more  than  one 
hour;  then  put  them  into  boiling  water,  and  alloAV  them  to  simmer  for  about 
ten  minutes,  AA-hich  renders  them  firm.  Take  them  up,  drain  them,  brush  over 
the  egg,  sprinl^le  Avith  bread-crumbs;  dip  them  into  egg  again,  and  then  into 
n;ore  bread-crumbs;  drop  on  them  a  little  oiled  butter,  and  put  the  SAveetbreads 
into  a  moderately  heated  oven,  and  let  them  bake  for  nearly  three  fourths  of  an 
hour.  Make  three  pieces  of  toast;  place  the  SAveetbreads  on  the  toast,  and  pour 
around,  but  not  completely  over  tliem,  a  good  broAvn  gravy. 

SWEETBREAD  A  LA  FINANCIERE. 

His  de  Veau  ct  la  Financibre. 

Blanch  some  fresh  sAAeetbreads,  and  Avheu  cold,  lard  them  AA'ith  lardons  of  fat 

bacon;  braise  them  over  as  in  above-nanied  recipe,  and  Avheu  cooked,  brush  the 

SAveetbreads  OA^er  liglitly  Avith  Avarm  glaze,  and  replace  in  the  oven  to  crisp  the 

bacon.    Dish  up  on  croutons  of  fried  bread,  as  shoAvn  in  the  design,  and  garnish 


with  prepared  financiere  (that  has  been  made  hot  by  standing  the  bottle  in  the 
bain-marie),  and  arrange  on  liatelet  skeAvers;  serA^e  Avith  a  good  financiere  sauce 
(see  recipe)  around  tlie  base,  and  use  for  a  dinner-party  entree., 

SWEETBREADS,  AVITH  MUSHROOMS. 
Parboil  SAveetbreads,  alloAA'ing  eight  medium-sized  ones  to  a  can  of  mush- 
rooms; cut  the  SAveetbreads  about  one  half  inch  square;  steAv  until  tender;  slice 
mushrooms,  and  stew  in  the  liquor  for  one  hour;  then  add  to  the  SAveetbreads 
one  coffee-cupful  of  cream,  pepper  and  salt,  and  one  tablespoonful  of  butter. 
SAveetbreads  boiled  and  served  Avith  green  peas  make  a  vei'y  nice  dish. 

LARDED  AND  STUFFED  SWEETBREADS. 
Parboil  half  a  dozen  large  SAA^eetbreads;  prepare  a  dressing  of  grated  bread- 
crumbs, lemon-peel,  butter,  cayenne  pepper  and  nutmeg;  mix  Avith  Avell-beaten 
yolks  of  eggs.  Cut  open  the  SAveetbreads,  and  stuff  tliem  with  the  mixture;  then 
SCAV  up.  HaA-e  readj  some  slips  of  fat  bacon  and  lemon-peel,  as  thick  as  small 
straAvs;  lard  the  SAA'eetbreads  in  alternate  roAvs  of  bacon  and  lemon;  then  put 
the  SAA^eetbreads  into  a  pan,  set  in  the  stove  and  bake  broAA'ii.  SerA^e  with  veal 
g:ravy  thickened  Avith  the  beaten  yolk  of  one  egg,  and  flaA^ored  with  lemon-juice. 


Meats.  127 

kscallops  of  sweetbread  a  la  muxich. 

Escalopes  de  His  de  Vcau  (i  la  MiDiic/i. 
ftlaneh  a  nice  Avliite  throiit-swootbroad  by  puttiu^:,-  it  into  enoush  cold  water 
to  (over  it,  with  a  ])iiK'li  of  salt,  let  it  come  to  a  boil,  tbi'u  strain  it,  and  wasli  it 
in  cold  water,  and  pnt  it  to  press  between  two  plates;  when  it  is  cold,  cnt  it 
into  escallops  about  one  half  of  an  inch  thiciv,  and  lard  each  alternately  Avith  fat 
bacon  and  truHle;  trim  the  lardons  evenly,  then  wrap  each  escallop  in  a  little 
s(iuare  piece  of  buttered  paper.  Put  into  a  stewpan  two  ounces  of  butter  and  a 
few  slices  of  carrot,  onion  and  turnip,  a  little  celery,  four  or  five  peppercorns,  a 
small  bunch  of  herbs  (parsley,  thyme  and  bay-leaf),  place  the  escallops  on  the 
vef;'etables,  put  the  cover  on  the  pan,  and  fry  for  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes; 
then  add  one  foiu'th  of  a  pint  of  stock,  and  let  the  escallops  braise  for  three 
(luarters  of  an  hour,  bastin,u;  them  occasionally  while  eoolviuii':  talve  them  up, 
remove  the  papers,  tilaze  them  over  lifi^htly,  and  sprinkle  tliem  with  a  very  little 
linely  chopped  raw  green  parsley;  dish  them  up  on  a  border  of  potatoes,  witli  a 


slice  of  tomato  between  each  (see  recipe  "Tomato  for  (Jarnishiug"),  or  a  round 
of  nice  black  truflle.  Garnish  the  center  with  a  pile  of  grated  cocoanut  or  boiled 
rice  that  has  a  little  warm  butter  poured  over  it,  and  a  little  pepper,  and  serve 
cocoanut  sauce  around  the  base. 

Cocoanut  Saice  for  EscALLors  op  Sweetr]<eai)  a  i.a  Munich. — Pry  liiihtly 
together  in  a  stew-jian  two  ounces  of  fine  flour  and  two  ounces  of  butter,  then 
mix  in  three  fourths  of  a  pint  of  veal,  rabbit  or  chicken  stock,  stir  until  it  boils; 
add  one  fourth  of  a  jiood-sized  grated  cocoanut  and  one  gill  of  cream;  boil 
together  for  about  ten  minutes,  add  a  pinch  of  salt,  the  strained  juice  of  a  lemon, 
tammy,  and  use  while  hot. 

MUTTON  STEW  AND  OKEEN  PEAS. 

Select  a  breast  of  mutton,  not  too  fat,  cut  it  into  small,  S(]uare  pieces;  dredge 
it  with  floiu",  and  fi"y  it  a  nice  bi'own  in  lard  and  butter,  and  salt  and  pepper; 
cover  it  with  water,  and  set  it  over  a  slow  fire  to  stew  until  the  meat  is  tender; 
take  out  the  meat,  skim  off  the  fat  from  the  gravy,  and  just  before  serving, 
add  one  quart  of  green  peas  previously  boiled  with  the  strained  gravy,  and  let 
it  boil  gently  until  the  peas  are  well  done. 


128  MEAts. 

BUCKEYE  CItOQUETTES. 
Provide  one  calf's  head;  have  it  split  to  remove  the  braius,  lay  the  brains 
in  an  earthen  dish,  cover  with  cold  water,  add  one  teaspoonfiil  of  salt.  Tut 
the  head  into  a  pot,  with  enough  Avater  to  fairly  cover  it;  boil  slowly  until  the 
meat  will  drop  from  the  bones,  skim  the  impurities  olf,  then  remove  the  pot 
from  the  stove,  and  allow  it  to  stand  until  cool  enough  to  handle  the  meat;  put 
the  meat  into  a  chopping-bowl,  chop  finely;  season  as  follows: 

2  eggs,  1  salt-spoonful  of  salt, 

1  dozen  leaves  of  finely  rubbed  sage,      1  quill  of  garlic. 
Pepper  to  taste. 
Whip  the  seasoning  into  the  eggs,  then  stir  it  into  the  meat;  add  the  brains, 
and  dredge  enough  flour  into  the  mixture  to  make  it  stiff,  so  as  to  work  it  into 
small  cakes;  brown  in  a  quick  oven.    Serve  with  fricasseed  potatoes. 
Mrs.  Jos.  A.  Sanders,  Columbus,  Ohio. 

DOUBLE  HAUNCH  MUTTON  (ORNAMENTAL). 
This  is  a  rich  and  luxurious  remove— rich  in  its  simplicity,  luxurious  in  its 
bold  preparations  and  fine  form.  For  such  a  remove  it  is  necessary  to  select 
one  of  those  good,  fat,  young,  tender  sheep,  the  juicy  and  succulent  flesh  of 
Avhlch  is  so  agreeable  to  the  taste  and  so  light  on  the  stomach.  Before  being 
cooked,  the  piece  must  be  neatly  trussed,  for  if  not,  the  cooking  will  put  it  out 
of  shape;  both  legs  must  be  run  through  with  an  iron  skewer,  then  wrapped 
around,  as  well  as  the  saddle,  with  thick  paper;  it  must  be  roasted  on  the  spit 
or  baked  in  the  oven,  according  to  its  weight  and  the  thickness  of  its  flesh,  a 
consideration  which  should  not  be  lost  sight  of;  from  one  to  one  and  one  half 
hours  will  be  required  for  the  cooking.  "When  the  piece  is  placed  on  the  dish, 
a  ruflfle  is  put  on  each  leg-bone,  and  the  surfaces  are  glazed  with  a  paste-brush. 
Some  rich  gravy  is  sent  up  separately,  also  a  garnish  of  varied  or  plain  veg- 
etables, but  always  accompanied  by  potatoes.  Such  a  piece  must  be  carved  in 
the  dining-room;  the  meat  is  served  on  hot  plates,  with  the  light  gravy  running 
from  it  on  the  bottom  of  the  dish. 

Louis  C.  Zerega,  Chef  Hotel  Ponce  de  Leon,  St.  Augustine,  Fla. 

LAMB  CHOPS  A  LA  TRIANON. 
Broil  twelve  lamb  chops  (well  seasoned  Avith  salt  and  pepper)  on  one  side 
only.  Put  them  on  a  pan,  and  put  another  pan  over  them,  with  a  flat-iron  or 
something  to  keep  them  on  press.  Keep  them  in  a  cool  place.  Mix  one  piece  of 
butter  and  two  spoonfuls  of  flour,  add  one  pint  of  cream,  a  little  nutmeg,  one 
pinch  of  cayenne  pepper,  one  pinch  of  salt;  let  boil  until  very  thick;  then  put  in 
the  white  meat  of  a  chicken,  twelve  cooked  fresh  mushrooms,  one  spoonful  of 
chopped  parsley,  four  yolks  of  eggs;  mix  well,  let  boil  two  minutes  longer;  take 
from  the  fire,  and  put  this  mixture  on  a  plate,  keep  it  in  a  cool  place  until  of 
the  consistency  of  chicken  croquette;  garnish  the  chops  on  the  cooked  side  with 
a  spoonful  of  the  mixture;  dip  a  knife  into  hot  water  and  smooth  the  mixture 
all  over  the  chops,  sprinkle  bread-crumbs  over,  and  a  little  melted  butter,  put 
into  a  buttered  pan,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  for  seven  minutes  to  brown  lightly. 
Dress  on  a  platter,  put  a  frill  on  the  chop  handle,  and  serve  with  a  garnish  of 
French  peas  and  a  nice  brown  sauce.  Finish  wiih  a  glassful  of  sherry  wine. 
A.  J.  Pillauet,  Chef  West  Hotel,  Minneapolis,  Minnesota. 


MEATS.  129 

BAKED  I.Ed   OF   MUTTON- 

Take  a  six-poiuul  loi?  of  mutton,  cut  down  the  under  side,  and  remove  the 
bone.     Fill  it  with  a  dressing  made  of 

4  ounces  of  suet,  1  very  small  onion, 

2  ounces  of  chopped  ham,  A  ^ery  little  thyme  and  parsley  and 

0  ounces  of  stale  bread,  sweet  marjoram, 

2  eggs,  Nutmeg,  salt  and  pepper. 

Sew  up,  lay  in  a  pan,  and  place  in  a  hot  oven;  baste  with  butter,  and  cook 
thiee  hours. 

CUTLETS  OF  LAMB  A  LA  CTL\TELAINE. 

Cotelettes  (TAgncan  ii  la  Chcitelainc. 

Take  a  neck  of  lamb,  and  cut  as  many  cutlets  from  it  as  possible,  bat  them 

out  with  a  cold,  wet  chopping-knife,  and  remove  any  unnecessary  fat  and  skin, 

then  season  with  pepper  and  salt  and  put  tliem  into  a  buttered  saute-pan,  and 

saute  them  on  one  side  for  two  or  three  minutes;  then  put  them  to  press  until 


cold.  Prepare  a  Avhite  farce  thus:  Pound  tintil  smooth  eight  ounces  of  meat, 
(itlier  veal,  rabbit  or  chicken,  Avliich  has  been  cut  up  small;  then  pound  four 
ounces  of  panard,  and  mix  with  the  pounded  meat;  add  one  half  ounce  of  butter 
and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  thick  soubise  sauce  or  white  onion  sauce;  season  with 
a  little  white  pepper  and  salt,  nux  until  quite  smooth  with  three  raw  j^olks  of 
eggs,  then  pass  through  a  Avire  sieve.  'S^'hen  the  cutlets  are  cold,  trim  them,  if 
necessary,  and  then  mask  the  unsauted  side  witli  the  farce;  smooth  this  over 
with  a  wet,  hot  knife,  and  put  them,  Avith  the  farced  side  uppermost,  into  a 
buttered  saute-pan;  place  a  buttered  paper  over, and  put  into  the  oven  for  twelve 
to  fifteen  minutes.  When  the  farce  is  set,  remove  from  the  oven,  and  put  the 
cutlets  aside  to  get  cool;  then  mask  them  with  white  chaudfroid  sauce, and  orna- 
ment with  truffle,  as  In  engraving,  setting  this  with  a  little  aspic  jelly.  Dish  the 
cutlets  on  a  border  of  aspic  jelly  or  rice;  place  a  wax  figure  or  fried  crouton  of 
bread  in  the  center  to  rest  the  cutlets  against,  and  garnish  Avith  chopped  aspic 
jelly  and  a  cold  compote  of  French  plums. 


ISO 


MEATS. 


FRIED  LAMB  STEAKS. 

Dip  each  piece  into  well-beaten  egg,  and  roll  it  in  bread-crumbs  or  corn-meal, 
and  fry  in  butter  and  lard.  After  taliiug  up  the  meat,  add  one  tablespoonful  of 
flour,  a  lump  of  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut  and  one  pint  of  hot  water,  with  one 
half  a  teaspoouful  of  lemon-juice,  and  pour  it  hot  over  the  steaks. 

SPICED  LAMB. 

Boil  a  leg  of  mutton  weighing  five  pounds,  for  two  hours,  and  while  boiling, 
add  one  tablespoonful  of  whole  cloves  and  a  stick  of  cinuajuon,  broken.  Slice 
cold,  and  serve  with  sweet  pickle  peaches. 

CUTLETS  OF  LAMB  A  LA  EATISBON. 

Cotelettes  d^Agrieau  d  la  Matisbon. 
Irim  a  neck  of  Iamb  neatly  for  braising,  and  tie  it  up  with  string;  put  into  a 
slew-pan  tliat  is  well  buttered  at  the  bottom,  with  a  few  slices  of  cleansed 
carrot,  onion,  celery  and  turnip,  bay-leaf,  thyme,  parsley  and  a  few  peppercorns, 


placing  the  meat  on  top  of  these.  Cover  the  meat  over  with  a  piece  of  buttered 
paper,  and  put  the  cover  on  the  pan,  and  fry  for  about  fifteen  minutes;  then  add 
one  fourth  of  a  pint  of  good  stock,  and  place  the  stew-pan  in  the  oven  for  about 
one  hour,  keeping  it  braising  gently,  and  basting  it  frequently,  and  adding  a  little 
more  stock  occasionally  as  that  in  the  pan  reduces.  When  cooked,  take  it  up, 
and  put  it  to  press  betAveen  two  plates,  and  when  cold,  cut  it  into  neat  cutlets, 
and  mask  each  over  witli  brown  chaudfroid  sauce,  then  ornament  each  cutlet 
with  three  or  four  very  finely  cut  strips  of  white  of  hard-boiled  egg,  cut  into 
lengths  of  about  two  and  one  half  inches;  arrange  these  like  little  branches  on 
the  cutlets,  and  attach  to  the  egg  a  few  little  sprigs  of  picked  chervil;  make  little 
dots  here  and  there  on  the  chervil  Avith  lobster  coral  garnish,  and  put  a  little 
aspic  over  each  cutlet  to  set  the  garnish;  trim  the  cutlets  around  neatly,  and  dish 
them  up  on  a  border  of  rice  about  one  inch  deep,  and  in  the  center  of  the  border 
place  a  roll  of  rice,  prepared  in  the  same  way,  to  stand  the  cutlets  against.  Put 
some  very  finely  chopped  aspic  jelly  into  a  forcing-bag  with  a  small,  plain  pipe, 


MEATS. 


131 


and  bt'lwt'on  cat-h  ciidel  loive  oiil  a  littlo  of  flu'  .U'lly,  which  will  K've  a  very 
pivll.v  tini.sh  to  tho  dish,  and  also  keep  the  cxitlets  from  falling;  arrange  some 
chopped  aspic  jelly  on  the  top,  garnish  it  with  some  nice  sprigs  of  tarragon  and 
chervil,  place  little  blocks  of  jelly  around  the  edge  of  the  rice  border,  and  through 
the  center  of  the  rice  block  stick  a  lt)ng  hatelet  skewer  on  which  five  or  six 
cooked  artichoke  bottoms  have  been  arranged  that  have  been  seasoned  with  a 
little  salad-oil  and  tarragon  vinegar,  also  any  nice  cold  cooked  vegetables  that 
are  seasoned  with  a  little  oil  and  tarragon  vinegar.  Serve  for  an  entre'i  or  any 
cold  collation. 

LAMB  C'UTLKTS  A  L'ANGELIQUE. 
Coteletles  cVAgnenii  a  V AngcLique. 
Take  the  best  end  of  a  neck  of  lamb,  trim  off  all  unnecessary  fat,  and  cut  it 
into  neat  cutlets;  bat  tliem  out  with  a  cold,  wet  chopping-knife,  season  with 
pei)per  and  salt,  steep  them  in  warm  butter  or  salad-oil,  and  grill  the  cutlets  in 
front  of  a  l)risk  fire,  turning  them  only  once  during  tlie  cooking;  when  sutfic- 
iently  cooked,  they  should  be  a  nice  lirown  color.  1'ake  them  up,  put  the  cut- 
lets into  a  saute-pau  containing  some  of  the  sauce  as  below,  and  just  bring  to  a 


boil.  Take  a  puree  of  peas  or  other  vegetables,  and  by  means  of  a  forcing-bag 
A^'it!l  a  rose-pipe  arrange  it  lengthwise  on  the  dish  on  which  the  cutlets  are  to 
be  served;  dish  up  the  cutlets  straight  down  on  this,  arrange  on  the  top  of  each 
one  teaspoonful  of  cooked  cucumber  that  is  cut  into  shreds,  pour  angelic  sauce 
aroimd  the  base  of  the  dish,  and  serve  very  hot  for  an  entree  for  dinner,  etc. 
Frills  may  or  may  not  be  used,  as  liked. 

Sauce  for  Cutlets  a  i/Angelique.— Put  into  a  stew-pan  two  wine-glassfuls 
of  sherry,  one  teaspoonful  of  beef  extract,  two  finely  chopped  washed  mush- 
rooms and  the  essence  from  a  bottle  of  truflles;  boil  to  half  the  quantity,  tammy, 
rev.  arm  in  the  bain-marie,  and  use. 


STEWED   HONEYCOMB   TRIPE   (BOSTON   STYLE). 

Cul  one  pound  of  freshly  cooked  honeycomb  tripe  into  strips  two  inches  long 
and  one  half  inch  wide,  put  butter  the  size  of  an  egg  into  a  large  frying-pan,  and 
put  the  pan  on  a  quick  fire.  As  soon  as  the  butter  melts,  put  the  tripe  into  it, 
and  toss  continually  until  all  the  A\'at(>r  is  removed  from  the  tripe.  In  another 
frying-pan  fry  three  onions,  sliced  very  thin;  when  brown,  put  them  on  the  pan 
with  the  tripe,  add  tliree  fresh  tomatoes,  peeled  and  sliced,  a  pinch  of  cayenne 
pepper,  two  soup-spoonfuls  of  vinegar  and  salt  1o  taste;  boil  the  whole  quiclcly 
for  three  minutes,  and  serve  on  a  hot  dish.  If  you  have  no  fresh  tomatoes, 
canned  ones  may  be  used. 

A-  J-  Pillauet,  Chef  West  Hotel,  Minneapolis,  Minnesota. 


132 


MEATS 


LAMB  CUTLETS  A  L'ESPAGNE. 

Cotelettes  d^Agyieau  (l  VEspagne. 
Trim  the  best  end  of  a  neck  of  lamb,  and  braise  foi*  one  hour;  when  cooked, 
take  up  tlie  lamb,  and  put  it  into  press,  and  when  cold,  cut  it  into  neat  cutlets, 
and  mask  tliese  with  chaudfroid  sauce,  as  beloAv;  then  ornament  each  cutlet 
M  ith  little  rings  of  green  and  wliite  mayonnaise  aspic  (see  recipe),  as  shown  in 
engi'aving,  and  dish  up  the  cutlets  on  a  border  of  rice,  resting  them  against  a 
crouton,  which  should  be  stood  upright  in  the  center  of  the  border.  Place  in  the 
center  some  cooked  cut-up  artichoke  bottoms  and  raw  ripe  tomatoes  cut  into 
little  dice  shapes,  or  other  salad  may  be  used;  garnish  with  chopped  aspic  jelly, 
place  frills  on  each  of  the  bones,  if  liked,  and  serve  for  an  entree  or  for  ball 
supper. 


Chaudfiioid  for  Cutlets  a  l'Espacnf.— Take  three  fourths  of  a  pint  of  aspic 
jelly,  one  wine-glassful  of  sherry,  one  ounce  of  glaze  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
tomato  sauce;  boil  these  together  until  reduced  one  fourth,  keeping  well 
skimmed;  then  tamniy,  add  one  teaspoonful  of  tarragon  vinegar,  mix,  and  use. 

BKOILED  TRIPE. 

Prepare  tripe  as  for  frying;  lay  it  on  a  gridiron  over  a  clear  fire  of  coals,  let 
it  broil  gently;  when  one  side  is  a  fine  brown,  turn  the  other  side  (it  must  be 
nearly  done  tlirough  before  turning);  take  It  up  on  a  hot  dish,  butter  it,  and  if 
liked,  add  a  little  catchup  or  vinegar  to  the  gravy. 

FRIED  TRIPE. 

Procure  your  tripe  at  the  butcher's.  Scrape  and  wipe  out  the  liquor,  and  dry 
it  between  a  towel.  Dip  into  a  tiiin  batter,  put  into  a  skillet,  with  hot  butter  and 
lard  mixed.  Fry  a  nice  brown,  and  serve  hot.  Do  not  season  witli  anything,  as 
it  is  prepared  when  you  get  it. 

CRACKNELS. 

These  can  be  had  at  tlie  butcher's  at  a  very  low  price.    They  are  what  is  left 
from  frying  out  lard.    Put  them  into  a  pan,  with  a  little  warm  water,  and  some 
bread-crumbs  or  cold  corn-bread  broken  fine;  season  witli  pepper  and  salt,  fry 
until  a  nice  brown,  and  serve  hot.    Very  relishing  in  cold  weather, 
Mrs,  W-  B.  R.,  Jackson,  Miclngaq, 


MEATS. 


133 


LITTLE  (JROUSTADES  A  LA  NASSAU. 

Tctitcs  Groustades  0,  la  Nassau. 

Line  soiiu'  little  fintod  cups  with  ;i  sliort  paste  and  press  it  well  into  tlie  mold, 

so  as  to  set  a  .cood  inipressiou;  cut  out  some  little  rounds  of  paper,  and  butter 

tliem  on  one  side,  then  plnce  inside  tlie  paste;  cook  for  about  twenty  minutes  in 

a  moderate  oven;  remove  tlie  paper,  have  some  blanched  calf's  or  sheep's  brains 


cut  into  neat  slices  about  one  fourth  of  an  inch  thick,  put  them  in  the  cases, 
and  cover  over  with  a  i^ood  tliiclv  veloute  sauce;  tiien  l»alve  one  half  pound  of  lean 
veal  or  rabbit  and  tliree  ounces  of  fat  and  lean  bacon  (raw  meat  would  be  best), 
and  pound  and  pass  through  a  sieve;  then  mix  it  with  two  I'aw  yolks  of  eggs, 
one  salt-spoonful  of  salt,  a  pinch  of  mignonette  pepper,  and  a  peeled  and  chopped 
shnllot.  When  mixed,  maslc  the  little  cases  over  Avith  it  by  means  of  a  hot,  wet 
knife  (wliicli  aaIII  smooth  the  puree).  Ornament  around  the  edges  of  the  cases 
with  a  little  of  tlie  farce,  using  a  forcing-bag  with  n  small,  plain  pipe  for  the 
purpose;  sprinkle  each  croustade  with  a  little  chopped  lean  ham  or  tongue,  and 
on  the  center  place  two  strijis  of  truffle  across.  Cook  in  the  oven  with  a  buttered 
pa])er  over  for  about  tifteen  minutes.  Dish  on  a  napkin  or  paper,  and  serve  hot 
for  a  dinner  or  luncheon  entree. 

LAMB  CUTLETS  IN  CHAUDFllOID. 

(Tddcttes  cVAgneau  en  C/iaiulfroid. 
Roast  a  neck  of  lamb  or  mutton,  and  put  it  away  until  cold,  tlien  cut  up  into 
neat  cutlets,  and  mask  them  over  with  brown  and  wiiite  chaudfroid;  leave  until 
set,  then  pour  over  tliem  a  little  liquid  aspic  jelly,  set  aside  until  quite  cold,  and 


then  dish  on  a  bed  of  cliojiped  aspic,  and  garnish  at  intervals  with  cooked  arti- 
choke bottoms,  raw  tomatoes  and  any  other  nice  cooked  vegetable;  place  a  cutlet 
frill  on  the  top  of  each  cutlet,  if  liked,  and  serve  as  {i  cold  entree  or  for  a  cold 
CuUutiou, 


134 


MEATS, 


NECK  OF  MUTTON  A  LA  CLARENCE. 
Carre  de  Mouton  d  la  Clarence. 

Trim  off  all  the  unnecessary  fat  and  skin  from  a  small  neeli  of  mutton,  sliewer 
it,  and  wrap  it  up  in  a  well-greased  paper,  put  it  to  roast  in  a  moderate  oveiTfor 
about  one  hour,  during  which  time  keep  it  well  basted,  and  when  cooked,  take 
it  up,  remove  the  paper,  and  set  aside  until  cold;  then  mask  it  with  brown  and 
white  chaudfroid  sauce,  and  also  garnish  with  a  little  liquid  aspic;  when  this  is 
set,  place  it  on  a  disli,  and  garnisli  witli  little  timbals.  as  below,  that  are 
arranged  on  cooked  artichoke  bottoms,  and  on  which  is  placed  a  slice  of  raw 
seasoned  tomato,  allowing  one  to  each  person;  garnish  with  chopped  aspic  and 
little  blocks  of  aspic  jelly,  and  serve  for  a  luncheon  or  any  cold  collation,  or  for 
a  remove  for  dinner. 

""i'lMBAL  FOB  Neck  of  Muttow  a  i.a  Clarence.— Line  some  little  fluted  timbal- 
molds  with  aspic  jelly,  and  ornament  the  top  of  each  with  white  of  hard-boiled 
egg  that  is  cut  into  any  pretty  design;  set  this  with  a  little  more  jelly,  then  fill 
up  the  molds  with  a  cooked  macedoine  of  A'egetables  and  aspic  jelly,  leave  until 
set;  then  dip  into  hot  water,  and  dip  out. 


Artichoke  Bottoms  for  Neck  of  Mutton  a  la  Clarence.— Take  some 
cooked  articholve  bottoms,  season  them  with  salad-oil.  a  little  chopped  tarragon 
and  chervil,  a  few  drops  of  tarragon  vinegar  and  chopped  shallot,  and  use. 


TENDERLOIN  A   LA   JARDINIERE. 

Wash,  trim  and  lard  three  nice  porlv  tenderloins,  season  with  one  half  table- 
spoonful  of  salt  and  one  half  teaspoonful  of  pepper,  and  place  them  in  a  roast- 
ing-pan.  Pour  over  each  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  and  lay  a  few  slices  of 
carrot  and  onion  in  the  bottom  of  the  pan,  and  set  them  in  the  oven  to  roast.  As 
soon  as  light  brown,  add  a  little  boiling  Avater,  and  baste  frequently  until  done. 
In  the  meantime  cut  one  good-sized,  A^ell-cieaned  carrot  into  fine  slices,  lay 
several  slices  over  one  another,  and  cut  into  fine  strips, place  them  in  a  saucepan, 
cover  with  boiling  water,  add  one  half  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  and  boil  until 
tender.  Drain  one  can  of  peas  in  a  sieve,  rinse  off  with  cold  water,  place  them 
in  a  saucepan,  cover  with  boiling  water,  add  one  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  and 
cook  fifteen  minutes.  Mix  one  tablespoonful  of  corn- starch  with  one  half  table- 
spoonful of  butter,  add  it  to  the  peas  with  one  half  teaspoonful  of  salt;  cook 
two  rainu'tes,  add  one  teaspoonful  of  finely  chopped  parsley.  Finish  the  carrots 
tlie  same  way.  Lay  the  tenderloins  on  a  hot  dish,  and  lay  the  peas  and  carrots 
around  them;  then  lay  small  parisienne  potatoes  in  clusters  around  it. 

Mrs.  Gesine  Lemcke,  Principal  of  German-American  Cooking  College,  Brooklyn,  N.  y. 


iiEATS.  135 

FlUED   HAM. 

Lay  the  ham  in  a  skillet,  and  pour  boiling  water  over  it  to  freshen  it;  let  it 
boil  about  ten  minutes,  then  pour  the  water  oft',  and  fry  in  its  own  fat. 

TO  BROIL  HAM. 

Cut  the  slices  thin  tlien  pound  lilce  beefsteali;  eook  on  a  griddle  over  hot  coals 
(it  need  not  be  cooked  much);  save  the  .uravy,  and  butter  the  meat  wlien  done. 
Mrs.  Thomas  Trundle,  Adamstown,  Maryland. 

BAKED  HAM. 

Most  persons  boil  ham.  It  is  mucli  better  baked,  if  baked  right.  Soal^  it  for 
an  hour  in  clean  water,  and  wipe  it  dry.  Next  spread  it  all  over  with  thin  batter, 
and  then  put  it  into  a  deep  dish,  with  sticks  under  it  to  keep  it  out  of  the  gravy. 
"When  it  is  luUy  done,  lake  off  the  skin  and  batter  crusted  upon  the  flesh  side, 
and  set  away  to  cool.  It  should  bake  fro)n  six  to  eight  hours.  After  removing 
the  skin,  sprinkle  over  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  some  black  pepper  and 
powdered  crackers.  Put  into  a  pan,  and  return  to  the  oven  to  brown;  then  take 
up  and  stick  cloves  through  the  fat,  and  dust  w'ith  pow'dered  cinnamon. 

HAM-AND-EGG   LUNCH   LOAF. 

Chop  remnants  of  cold  boiled  ham,  corned  beef  or  salt  pork;  add  crushed 
crackers  and  from  three  to  six  eggs,  according  to  the  amount  of  your  meat.  Bake 
in  a  round  baking-powder  box  or  empty  spice-box,  and  when  cold,  it  can  be  sliced 
for  the  table. 

Mrs.  Alice  Farwell,  Hubbardstown,  Massachusetts. 

HAM  PATTIES. 

One  pint  of  ham  which  has  previously  been  cooked,  mix  with  two  parts  of 
bread-crumbs,  wet  with  milk.  Put  the  batter  into  gem-pans,  break  one  egg  over 
each,  sprinkle  tlie  top  thickly  with  cracker-crumbs,  and  bake  until  browned  over. 
A  nice  breakfast  dish. 

BOILED  HAM, 

Pour  boiling  water  over  it,  and  when  cool  enough,  scrape  and  w^ash  clean.  Put 
into  a  boiler,  and  cover  it  with  cold  water;  bring  to  the  boiling-point,  then  place 
on  the  back  of  the  stove  to  boil  gently  for  three  or  four  hours,  or  until  tender,  so 
as  to  stick  a  fork  into  it.  Turn  the  ham  once  or  twice  in  the  w^ater.  When  done, 
take  up  and  put  into  a  baking-pan  to  skin.  Dip  the  hands  in  cold  water;  take 
the  skin  between  the  fingers,  and  peel  as  you  would  an  orange.  Set  in  a  mod- 
erate oven,  and  bake  one  hour,  as  this  draws  out  the  superfluous  fat.  leaving  the 
meat  more  delicate,  and  in  \v;irm  weather  it  Avill  keep  in  a  cool  place  a  long 
time.  Any  tendency  to  mold  may  be  removed  by  setting  it  in  the  oven  awhile. 
To  glaze  a  boiled  ham,  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  pass  a  hot  knife  over  it,  or  brush 
it  over  with  the  Avell-beaten  yolk  of  an  egg,  sprinkle  w^ell  with  grated  crackers 
or  lircad-crumbs,  and  cover  it  with  sweet  cream;  then  put  it  into  the  oven  to 
broAvu.  The  nicest  portion  of  a  boiled  ham  serve  in  slices,  and  the  I'agged  parts, 
odds  and  ends,  are  chopped  fine  for  sandwiclies.  or  by  adding  three  eggs  to  one 
l^int  of  chopped  ham  a  delicious  omelet  may  be  made. 


HAM  MOUSSE  A  LA  L.   P.   MORTON. 

Pound  one  half  pound  of  very  lean  ham  in  a  mortar  for  about  a  quarter  of 
an  hour.  When  thoroughly  pounded,  remove  from  the  mortar  and  put  aside. 
Take  the  nerves  out  of  the  breast  part  of  a  young  roasting  chicken,  pound  the 
same  as  the  ham,  and  mix  them  both;  add  the  whites  of  two  eggs,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  thick  cream,  one  tablespoonful  of  sherry,  a  wee  bit  of  cayenne 
pepper,  a  little  grated  nutmeg;  mix  this  well  in  the  mortar.  (This  is  called  force- 
meat). Pass  through  a  very  fine  sieve,  put  into  a  bowl  on  ice  to  let  it  rest,  so  as 
to  get  it  very  firm.  Cut  four  medium-sized  truffles  into  small  dice,  mix  them 
AA'ith  the  forcemeat,  add  also  to  it  one  pint  of  the  best  cream  (Avhipped  into 
froth).  When  you  add  the  cream,  proceed  slowly,  and  mix  with  a  wooden  spoon. 
Butter  Avell  the  bottom  and  sides  of  a  plain  mold,  called  charlotte-mold,  till  it 
with  forcemeat,  and  keep  on  ice.  One  hour  before  serving,  put  this  mold  into  a 
saucepan  half  full  of  boiling  water,  and  put  a  cover  on  it  (be  careful  not  to  let 
the  water  go  over  your  mold);  put  this  on  the  edge  of  the  stove,  but  be  careful 
not  to  let  the  water  boil.  You  will  be  able  to  tell  if  your  mousse  is  cooked  by 
pressing  lightly  with  your  hand  fiat  on  the  top.  If  you  feel  the  mousse  resists 
the  pressure,  it  is  done.  When  ready  to  unmold,  take  a  sharp  knife,  and  cut  a 
very  thin  slice  ofC  the  top,  which,  of  course,  will  be  the  bottom,  once  unmolded. 
This  will  make  your  mousse  stand  even  on  the  dish.  Serve  a  sauce  supreme 
separate. 

Sauce  Supreme.— Take  the  legs  and  bones  of  the  chicken  from  which  you 
have  already  cut  the  breast,  put  into  a  saucepan,  with  one  small  carrot,  one  small 
onion,  one  bay-leaf,  two  whole  black  peppers,  one  cloA^e,  a  little  thyme,  a  little 
celery,  a  little  parsley,  four  glassfuls  of  cold  water  and  a  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
Put  two  ounces  of  good  butter  into  a  saucepan,  one  tablespoonful  of  flour;  let 
this  cook  together  for  ten  minutes,  stirring  all  tlie  time,  on  the  edge  of  the  stove, 
without  letting  it  get  brown.  Strain  your  broth  into  it,  and  let  it  cook  for  about 
tvt'enty  minutes;  slvim  it  well  and  take  off  the  fire,  but  keep  it  warm.  When 
ready  to  serve.,  add  to  it  one  half  glassfvd  of  good  double  cream,  but  before 
addmg  the  latter,  let  the  sauce  boil,  and  add  the  cream  gradually,  stirring  the 
sauce  with  a  wooden  spoon  continually.  Also  add  one  teaspoonful  of  good  sherry 
and  two  chopped  truffles.  Serve  very  hot.  According  to  the  taste  and  practice 
of  the  person  who  makes  it,  the  mousse  can  be  decorated  with  truffles.  As  you 
will  have  seen  in  this  recipe,  there  is  no  salt  mentioned  in  the  preparation  of  the 
ham  mousse,  the  ham  itself  being  salty  enough. 

N.  B.— The  mousse  is  a  delicate  and  light  dish,  agreeable  to  the  taste  and  easy 
to  digest,  and  the  most  esteemed  by  the  best  epicures. 

Paul  Resal,  Chef  of  White  House  (Executive  Mansion),  Washington,  D.  C. 

TO  BOIL  BACON-HAM. 

After  cleaning  the  ham  well,  place  it  in  a  large  boiler,  and  fill  It  with  cold 
water.  Let  it  boil  slowly  five  or  six  hours,  then  take  it  out  and  put  it  into  a  dish 
to  drain.  While  it  is  still  hot,  or  when  it  is  cool,  remove  the  skin  and  place  it 
into  the  oven  to  brown.  Mix  one  teacupful  of  vinegar,  one  tablespoonful  of  black 
pepjier,  a  little  ground  mustard,  two  or  three  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  and  baste 
the  ham  with  it  while  it  is  roasting. 
Mrs.  J.  T.,  Dublin  Depot,  Virginia. 


MEATS. 


137 


BOAR'S  HEAD. 

Tete  dc  iSanglier. 
Tnkp  a  boar's  head  (or  a  pig's  head,  wliich  is  often  tiscd  instead,  and  forms 
a  nice  disli),  bone  it,  and  put  it  in  picivle  tlireo  weeks  or  a  niontli  l)ef()re  using 
thus:  Kub  it  well  two  or  tbree  times  a  week  witli  the  following  ingredients 
pounded  together  until  sniooth:  Two  pounds  of  salt,  one  fourth  of  a  pound  of 
moist  Sligar,  one  fourth  of  a  pint  of  strained  lemon-juice,  one  half  teaspoonful  of 
cocoa,  two  sprigs  of  sage,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  French  mustard,  one  teaspoon- 
ful each  of  ground  ginger,  ground  nutmeg,  ground  allspice,  ground  cloves,  ground 
mace,  about  thirty  pounded  peppercorns,  black  and  white,  one  half  ounce  of 
pepjter,  the  peel  of  one  lemon,  one  tablespoonful  of  tamarinds,  one  tablespoouful 
of  powdered  cumin-seed  and  twelve  pounded  almonds.  Then  rinse  it  well,  and 
ln.\'  it  out  flat,  and  stuff  tlie  inside  with  a  well-seasoned  farce  made  of  two  and 
one  half  pounds  of  veal  and  two  and  one  half  pounds  of  fresh  pork;  then  place 


about  six  yolks  of  hard-boiled  eggs  that  are  masked  with  a  little  chopped  parsley 
in  The  farce  and  six  or  eight  turned  olives  and  mushrooms,  six  filleted  Cliris- 
tiaiiia  anchovies,  one  and  one  half  pounds  of  strips  of  tongue,  one  half  pound  of 
bacon,  thirty-six  pistachio-nuts  and  six  or  more  large  truttles,  and  fasten  up  the 
head  in  the  cloth  and  boil  for  five  or  six  hours  in  stock  or  water,  with  a  good 
plateful  of  vegetables— carrot,  onion,  six  bay-leaves,  six  or  eight  sprigs  of  thyme, 
one  teaspoonful  of  black  and  white  peppercorns,  six  or  eight  cloves,  six  blades 
of  mace  and  one  head  of  celery.  Let  it  cook  gently,  and  when  done,  take  up, 
and  tighten  the  cloth,  and  put  it  away  until  the  next  day;  then  put  it  on  a  silver 
dish,  put  the  eyes  and  tusks  in,  mask  it  with  glaze,  and  garnish  it  with  butter 
and  cat  aspic  jelly,  trutfles.  cockscombs,  mushrooms  and  paper  cap,  as  shown  iu 
the  engraving.    The  eyes  and  tusks  are  kept  ready  for  use. 


138  MEATS. 

DEVILED  HAM, 

Tnko  lean  boilod  haiii,  and  c-Jio]i  it  very  lino.  s(\-is<ni  it  avoII  with  black  and 
rod  poppor  and  dry  mustard;  pross  it  solid,  and  slice  thin.  Boiled  beefs  tongue 
may  be  served  in  the  same  manner. 

]\Irs.  R.  W.  Mills,  Webister  Grove,  Missouri. 

HAM  AND  EGGS. 

Cut  the  ham  into  pieces  the  size  of  a  fried  egg;  fry  it  in  its  own  fat.  and  when 
done,  break  the  number  of  eggs  required  in  the  ham  fat.  and  fry  them,  ^^'hen 
done,  lay  each  egg  on  a  piece  of  the  ham.  and  serve. 

HAM  TOAST. 

Chop  the  lean  cooked  ham  into  small  pieces,  put  it  into  a  pan,  Avith  a  little 
pepper,  a  lump  of  butter  and  two  -NA-ell-beaten  eggs,  ^yheu  warnied  through, 
spread  it  on  hot,  buttered  toast. 

JNI.  L.  Haiin,  NVellingtoii,  Kansas. 

SCItAn.E. 

Take  a  hog's  jowl,  a  part  of  the  liver  and  heart,  and  the  feet,  cleanse  thor- 
oughly, put  on  to  boil  in  cold  water,  cook  until  all  the  bones  can  be  easily 
removed;  then  take  out  in  a  chopping-boAvl  and  chop  fine;  season  with  sage, 
salt  and  pepper,  return  it  to  the  liquor  (which  you  must  strain)  on  the  stove; 
then  thicken  Avith  corn-meal  and  one  teacupful  of  buckwheat  flour  until  the 
consistency  of  miish;  dip  out  into  deep  dishes,  and  when  cool,  slice,  and  fry 
a  rich  brown,  as  you  would  mush.  It  is  A'ery  nice  for  a  cold  morning  break- 
fasi.  If  you  make  more  than  yon  can  use  at  once,  run  hot  lard  over  the  rest,  and 
you  can  keep  it  all  through  the  AA-iuter. 

PIG'S  EEET. 

^Yasll  in  hot  AAater.  and  scrape  thoroughly  Avith  a  sharp  knife.  Eay  them  in 
Siilt-Avater  all  night,  to  remove  the  blood.  Put  on  to  cook  Avith  enough  cold  Avater 
to  cover,  slightly  salted.  Cook  for  three  to  five  hours,  until  the  bones  loosen. 
Take  out  the  meat  in  a  choppiug-bowl.  chop  medium  fine.  Strain  the  liquor  in 
the  pot  in  which  they  were  boiled,  and  season  Avith  vinegar  and  pepper  to  taste; 
take  out  the  meat  into  bowls  or  small  crocks,  and  coA'er  it  Avith  the  juice,  to 
Avhich  you  have  added  more  hot  water,  as  it  aaIII  bear  diluting.  When  cold,  if 
not  Avanted  for  iunnediate  use.  pour  melted  lard  over  the  top.  If  used  right 
aAvay.  turn  out  of  the  1h)av1s.  and  cut  doAvn  into  slices  one  half  inch  thick. 
Cliristie  IvA-ing. 

PORK  CHOPS  AND  FRIED  APPLES. 

Season  the  chops  with  salt  and  pepper  and  a  little  powdered  sage  and  sweet 
marjoram;  dip  them  into  a  well-beaten  egg.  then  into  grated  bread-crumbs.  Fry 
for  tAventy  minutes,  then  put  them  on  a  hot  dish.  Have  some  sour  apples  cut 
into  slices  around  the  apple,  so  the  core  will  be  in  the  middle  of  each  piece,  about 
three  fourths  of  an  inch  thick;  lay  them  into  the  skillet  the  chops  were  taken 
from,  and  fry  a  nice  brown.  Turn  tliem  carefully,  so  as  not  to  break  them,  and 
serA'e  on  the  chops  or  in  a  separate  dish. 


MEATS. 


139 


HAM  AND  CHICKEN  A  LA  DOUCJLAH. 
Jambon  et  Poulet  d  la  Douglas. 
l*ut  a  nice  York  ham  iuto  cold  water  to  soak  for  a  day  or  two,  durinj^  which 
tinu?  change  the  water  occasionally,  tlien  trim  off  all  the  imuecessary  uuderskin, 
and  saw  off  the  tii)-end  of  the  knuckle-bone;  tie  up  the  ham  in  a  clean  cloth, 
and  put  it  into  a  saucepan  with  good-flavored  cold  stock;  bring  this  to  a  boil, 
then  skim;  cover  over  with  the  stew-pan,  and  let  the  ham  simmer  gently  for  two 
and  one  half  to  three  hours.  When  cooked,  set  the  ham  aside  in  the  stock  until 
perfectly  cold,  then  tnko  up  the  ham,  remove  the  cloth,  peel  off  the  top  skin  very 
carefully  to  within  foiir  or  five  inches  of  the  knuckle,  and  then  with  a  very  sharp 
knife  trim  the  fat  quite  evenly,  but  remove  as  little  as  possible;  wipe  it  over 
carefully  with  a  clean,  soft  <'loth.  then  brush  it  over  with  a  little  li<iuid  aspic 
jelly,  using  the  jelly  while  it  is  of  the  consistency  of  single  cream.  Dish  up  the 
ham  on  a  flat  silver  dish,  place  a  frill  on  the  knuckle,  garnish  the  top  with  fancy 


hfitelet  skewers,  place  around  the  dish  a  bed  of  finely  chopped  aspic  jelly,  a«d 
surround  it  with  little  creauis  of  chicken,  as  below.  This  dish  can  l)e  served  f<jr 
a  ball  supper  or  for  any  cold  collation. 

Little  Creams  of  Chicken  for  Gaknisiiino  Ham  a  la  Douglas.— Take  some 
little  ham-molds,  line  the  top  parts  with  aspic  cream  and  the  lower  parts  with 
red-colored  aspic,  using  a  little  ice  for  the  purpose  of  setting  them.  When  this 
is  set,  fill  up  the  inside  with  a  puree  of  chicken  prepared  as  follows:  Take  the 
meat  from  a  boiled  or  roasted  chicken,  free  it  from  bone  and  skin,  and  pound  it 
until  smooth,  with  one  wine-glassful  of  sherry,  one  half  pint  of  thick  cream,  a 
pinch  of  salt,  three  or  four  drops  of  lenion-juice  and  a  pinch  of  pepper;  mix  with 
one  p.int  of  good-flavoi*ed  chicken  gravy  in  which  one  ounce  of  glaze  is  dissolved, 
with  one  half  ounce  of  gelatin,  rub  it  throuj^h  a  tammy,  and  use. 

BAKBECUED  PORK. 

I*ut  a  loin  of  pork  into  a  hot  oven  without  water,  sprinkle  M'ith  flour,  pepper 
and  salt,  baste  with  butter,  cook  two  or  three  hours,  or  until  very  l)rown.  Pour 
into  the  gravy  one  half  teacupful  of  walnut  catchup.    Serve  with  fried  apples. 


140  MEATS. 

KOAST  SrAEEllIB. 
Trim  off  the  rough  ends,  neatly  crack  the  ribs  across  the  middle,  rub  with  salt 
aud  sprinkle  with  pepper,  fold  over,  stuff  with  bread-dressing,  sew  up  tightly, 
place  in  a  dripping-pan,  with  a  pint  of  water,  baste  frequently,  turning  over 
once  so  as  to  bake  both  sides  equally  until  a  rich  brown. 

SAUSAGE. 
20  pounds  of  chopped  meat,  2  ounces  of  pepper, 

8  ounces  of  salt,  ■  1  ounce  of  powdered  sage, 

1  tablespoonful  of  ginger. 
When  cool,  pack  in  pans,  and  first  cover  it  thick  with  lard,  then  with  paper. 
When  cutting  for  use,  loosen  a  portion  of  the  paper,  and  press  it  back  again. 
Keep  in  a  cool,  dry  place. 

Mrs.  R.  C.  B.,  Sandusky,  New  York. 

BOLOGNA  SAUSAGE. 
10  pounds  of  beef,  i/i  ounce  of  powdered  mace, 

21/^  pounds  of  pork,  1/4  ounce  of  powdered  cloves. 

Chopped  fine,  2^/;  ounces  of  powdered  black  pepper, 

Salt  to  taste. 
Mix  well,  and  let  it  stand  twelve  hours.    Stuff  in  muslin  bags  ten  inches  long 
aud  four  inches  wide.    Laj-^  them  in  ham  pickle  five  days,  and  smoke  them  eight 
days.    Hang  them  up  in  a  dark  place. 
Julia  A.  P.,  Georgetown,  New  Jersey. 

HEADCHEESE. 
Take  the  heads,  tongues  and  feet  of  young,  fresh  pork,  or  anj^  other  pieces 
that  are  convenient.  Having  removed  the  skin,  boil  them  until  all  the  meat  is 
quite  tender,  and  can  be  easily  stripped  from  the  bones;  then  chop  it  very  fine, 
and  season  it  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  ground  cloves,  if  you  choose,  or  sage- 
leaves  rubbed  to  a  powder;  juix  it  all  Avell  with  your  hand;  put  it  into  deep 
l»ans  witli  straight  sides,  and  press  it  down  hard  aud  firm  with  a  plate  that  will 
fit^lhe  pan,  putting  the  under  side  of  the  plate  next  to  the  meat,  and  placing  a 
heavy  weight  on  it.  In  two  or  tliree  days  turn  it  out  of  the  pan,  and  cut  it  into 
thin  slices.  Use  mustard  aud  vinegar  over  it.  This  is  desirable  for  a  supper  or 
brealvfast  dish. 

SALMAGUNDI. 

A  salmagundi  is  a  sort  of  vegetable  mosaic  made  with  pickled  herring,  cold 
dressed  chicken,  salt  beef,  radishes,  olives,  etc.,  all  arranged  with  regard  to  con- 
trast in  color,  as  well  as  fiavor,  and  served  witli  oil,  vinegar,  pepper  and  salt. 
The  following  is  a  good  recipe  for  a  salmagundi: 

Take  cold  fowl  or  turkey  or  veal,  or  all  together;  chop  the  meat  very  small, 
separating  tlie  white  from  the  broAvn,  and  putting  among  the  latter  the  brown 
part  of  the  veal,  if  it  is  roasted.  By  the  brown  meat  is  understood  the  legs  and 
backs  of  the  poultry.  Chop  likewise  the  lean  of  some  cold  ham,  a  few  boned 
and  washed  anchovies,  a  handful  of  picked  parsley,  half  a  dozen  shallots,  some 
piclvled  gherliins,  the  yolks  and  whites,  separate,  of  six  hard-boiled  eggs,  and 
some  roasted  beet-root  after  it  has  become  cold.  Now  butter  a  basin,  and  place 
it  with  the  bottom  upward  upon  a  dish.     Lay  around  this  basin  a   ring  of 


MEAtS. 


141 


chopped  white  moat  oue  and  oue  half  inches  wide  and  about  one  iucli  high;  then 
lay  upon  this 

1  ring  of  ham,  then  1  of  meat, 

1  ring  of  brown  meat,  1  of  the  yolk  of  an  egg, 

1  of  tlie  white  of  an  egg,  1  of  parsley, 

1  of  anchovies. 

Keep  on  until  the  whole  of  the  materials  are  consumed  and  the  basin  is 
covered,  crowning  the  whole  with  a  root  of  beet-root,  garnislied  witli  a  few 
pickled  mushrooms.  The  sauce  must  be  served  in  a  sauce-tureen.  It  is  thus 
made:  Itub  up  a  couple  of  good  teaspooufuls  of  strong  mustard  from  the 
mustard-pot.  with  three  tables])ooufuls  of  salad-oil.  some  salt  and  a  little 
cayenne  pepper.    When  it  has  become  a  stiff  paste,  add.  gradually, 

1  tablespoonful  of  white-Avine  vinegar,  3  or  4  lemons,  the  juice  of, 

1  dessert-spoonful  of  mushroom  catchup,     2  tablespoonfuls  of  raw  capers, 
1  tablespoonful  of  soy. 

Should  the  sauce  not  be  sufficiently  tliin,  add  more  lemon-juice  or  vinegar. 

KIDNEYS  A  LA  LOUISVILLE. 
Rogyions  (i  la  Louisville. 
Remove  the  skin  and  core  from  some  juutton  kidneys;  split  them  open,  and 
season  them  with  a  little  salt  and  pepper  and  finely  chopped  sliallot;  steep  thent 


in  warm  butter,  then  dip  each  into  freshly  made  white  bread-crumbs,  and  grill 
or  broil  them  for  eight  to  ten  minutes,  turning  only  once  while  cooking.  When 
cooked,  take  up  and  arrange  each  kidney  on  a  slice  of  tomato  (see  recipe 
'"■J'omatoes  for  Garnishing");  place  a  raw  bearded  oyster  in  the  center  of  the 
kidney;  cover  this  by  means  of  a  bag  and  plain  pipe  with  a  puree  of  mushrooms, 
sprinkle  a  few  drops  of  glaze  over,  and  serve  for  a  breakfast  or  luncheon  dish, 
or  as  an  entree  for  dinner,  using  while  quite  hot. 

Puree  of  INIushrooms  for  Kidneys  a  la  Louisville.— Take  for  six  kidneys 
five  or  six  well-washed  fresli  mushrooms  pressed  from  the  water,  chop  them 
fine,  and  put  into  a  stew-pan.  Avith  one  ounce  of  butter,  a  little  salt  and  pepper 
and  one  small  chopped  shallot;  put  on  the  stove,  and  draw  down  gently  until 
into  a  pulp;  then  add  one  ounce  of  fresh  white  bread-crumbs,  the  strained'  liquor 
from  tlie  oysters,  and  one  ounce  of  cooked  lean  ham  or  tongue;  stir  until  reboil- 
iiig.  then  add  a  little  finely  chopped  raw  green  parsley,  and  use.  ■ 


Chapter  VIII. 


Early  peas  Avill  boil  in  one  half  to  three  quarters  of  an  hour;  they  are  best 
put  ou  witli  cold  water;  add  salt  wlien  nearly  done. 

String-beans  require  two  hours  or  more;  the  first  water  should  always  be 
poured  off. 

Lima  beans  will  cook  in  three  quarters  of  an  hour;  put  on  to  eoolv  in  hot 
Avater. 

Asparagus  will  boil  in  three  quarters  of  an  hoiu";  use  cold  watero 

Spinach  will  boil  in  fifteen  minutes;  use  hot  water. 

Summer  beets  will  boil  in  one  hour;  use  hot  water. 

Winter  beets  will  require  thi'ee  hours;  use  hot  water. 

Corn  will  boil  in  twenty  minutes;  use  hot  water. 

Onions  will  boil  in  one  and  one  half  liours;  use  hot  water. 

New  potatoes  will  boil  in  one  half  hour. 

Dried  corn  must  be  soaked  over  night;  allow  it  to  cook  one  hour. 

Summer  squash  is  better  steamed,  as  putting  it  into  water  makes  it  too 
watery;  cook  three  quarters  of  an  hour. 

Turnips  require  a  long  time  to  cook;  if  cut  thin,  they  will  cook  in  one  and 
one  quarter  hours;  but  if  only  cut  into  halves,  it  will  require  two  and  one  half 
hours. 

Winter  or  navy  beans  will  take  from  two  and  one  half  to  three  and  one  half 
hovirs  to  cook.  They  may  be  hurried  a  little  by  the  addition  of  a  pinch  of  soda; 
plenty  of  water  must  be  kept  on  them. 

Cauliflower  should  be  tied  up  in  a  net  or  a  piece  of  white  mosquito-netting 
when  boiling,  and  served  with  rich  drawn  butter.  Boil  twenty  minutes.  Look 
carefully  through  this  vegetable  for  worms— just  the  color  of  the  stalk. 

142 


VEGETABLES. 


143 


All  vo,u;otal)I('s  arc  better  to  be  seasoued  wlieu  tliey  are  ready  for  the  table. 
Never  let  tlieiii  stand  after  coining  off  the  tire.  Put  them  instantly  into  a 
colander,  over  a  pot  of  boiling  M'atei-,  if  you  have  to  keep  them  baclv  for  diiuier. 

Saratoga  potatoes  can  be  purcliased  at  any  large  grocery  in  pound  packages; 
also  dried  peas,  corn,  beans  and  canned  asparagus,  baked  beans,  etc. 

In  the  spring,  when  potatoes  bt'gin  to  sprout,  take  such  a  quantity  as  you 
wish,  place  in  a  tub,  and  pour  boiling  water  over  them.     Let  them  stand  long  , 
enough  to  kill  the  sprouts,  and  then  remove  the  water,  and  they  will  keep  all 
summer,  and  are  better  tlian  new  ones.     Steam  them  if  you  would  have  tliem 
very  AYhite  when  mashed. 

To  prevent  onions  bringing  tears  to  your  eyes  wlien  peeling  tliem,  liold  tliem 
luider  water  while  liandling  and  slicing  them. 

OldVE  POTATOES. 

Pomwies  de  Terre  Olives. 

Cut  some  raw  i)eeled  ])otatoes  into  quarters,  and  form  them  into  olive  shapes, 

a«  sliown  in  tlie  engraving,  and  put  them  into  cold  water,  with  a  little  salt;  . 

bring  to  a  boil,  then  strain,  and  rinse  the  potatoes  witli  warm  water,  and  (by 

them  in  a  clean  clotli;  put  into  a  tin  or  saute  pan  some  boiling  clarified  butter. 


place  the  potatoes  in  it,  put  into  the  oven,  and  let  it  remain  there  until  tlie 
potatoes  are  a  nice  golden  color;  tlien  drain,  and  sprinkle  with  a  little  finely 
chopped  raw  green  parsley,  and  serve  with  steak,  fillets  of  beef,  salmon,  etc., 
or  as  a  separate  vegetabl(>  for  luncheon  or  dinner. 

MASHED  IRISH  POTATOES. 

Peel  and  wasli  well  the  number  required  for  the  meal,  and  put  them  into  a 
kettle  to  cook:  cover  them  Avitli  boiling  w.ater,  and  let  them  boil  until  well  done; 
then  drain  off  tlie  Avater  and  mash  tliem  very  fine;  pour  in  one  cupful  of  good 
cream,  a  little  at  a  time,  put  in  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  Avalnut,  and  salt 
to  suit  the  taste;  beat  them  Avith  a  large  s])oon  until  very  light  and  white. 
Mrs.  J.  T.,  Dublin  Depot,  Virginia. 

SA  KATOG A  POTATOES. 

I'eel  and  slice  on  a  slaw-cutter  into  cold  water,  AA'ash  thoroughly  and  drain; 
si>read  between  the  folds  of  a  clean  cloth,  and  pat  them  dry.  Fry  a  few  at  a 
time  in  boiling  lard,  as  you  do  fried  cakes  or  crnlls.  Salt  them  as  soon  as  they 
are  taken  out  of  the  lard.  Tliey  are  used  for  garnishing  game  and  steaks. 
Tliey  are  often  eaten  cold,  and  consequently  are  nice  for  lunches,  picnics,  etc. 


144 


VKcH-rr.vKi.ES. 


liuo^^'M■:n  roi'.vrDKS. 


l.iM  lluMii  boil  ur;ni\  (loiu\  .-iiul  [\wvc  (luaiiors  o\'  an  hour  bcl'oro  lakiim  out  a 
ro;u^t  of  moat,  inu  iho  potatoos  into  tUo  (irii>[>ini;-i)an,  and  ba.^to  thoni  I'lviiiiontl.v 
Mitli  tho  jii-avv  o[  (ho  moat:  wlion  thoy  niv  a  ilo4ioato  brown,  drniu  on  a  .siovo. 
anil  sorvo  imn\iHliaui\ . 

v^TKWKn   ro  TAl'OKS. 

l!'  lar.co  onos  avc  nsod.  cm  into  halvos  or  (inariors.  and  lot  tliom  soak  in  oold 
watoi  ono  tionf.  I'li!  on  to  oook  witli  c'old  waiiM-  ononcli  to  lovor  ihoni.  W'lion 
noni'ly  dono.  ibain  olT  all  tlio  walof  but  halt"  a  pint,  add  on<-  pint  o(  milk  and  a 
piiU'h  of  salt;  wiiou  this  boils,  stir  in  ono  tablospinMifid  of  bultor  and  mio  toa- 
spoonf\il  of  tloiir  rtibbod  sntooth  in  a  littK<  oold  nnlk.  A  liandfid  ol  olioppod 
parsloy  adds  to  tlio  tlavor. 

Totatoos  loft  o\or  from  any  moal  may  bo  oookod  in  this  niannor  for  Iho  noxt 
nto:il.  as  dosirod. 

Mrs.  L.  A.  Ashlo.v.  SprinjjtuKl,  Ohio. 

lH>"r.\lO  C.VKKS. 

'l';iko  oold  masliod  pot.atoos  tliat  h;i\t>  boon  soasonod:  out   lliom.  and  mold  into 
liltlo  oakos:  fry  thoin  in  hot  butior  a  liuht  brow  it  oolor. 
11.  M.,  Elktou,  Indiana. 

crrriin  ror.v  roi:s. 

r.oil  snid  ntnsh  potatoos*,  and  soason  tho  sanio  as  for  tho  tablo.  ^^■ot  a  toaonp. 
and  press  somo  id"  this  into  tho  onp.  Tiirn  out  imi  a  tin  as  many  as  you  wish  for 
dinner.  Hoat  ono  o.c,^'.  and  r\ib  ovor  oaoh  o:iko:  ihon  sot  thom  in  a  hot  ovon  until 
niot^ly  brow  nod. 

Mrs.  K.  O.  1?.,  S^anduskv.  Now  York. 

FIMKP   r(Vl\V'P()KS. 

Slioo  oold  boilod  potatoes  thin,  so.-ison  with  popper  attd  salt;  imt  on  in  an  iron 
skillet  ono  tablespoon  fill  of  lard,  and  lot  it  uot  very  hot  befori>  puttinu'  in  tho 
p<»taioes.  C'oYvH*  th.oin,  and  stir  oooasionall\  ;  when  a  li.uht  brown  ap\>ears 
Throujih  then*,  dish  uit  in  a  hot,  deopi  dish. 

If  raw  potatoes  are  used,  have  the  lard  eold  whoit  yon  put  them  in.  and  take 
your  sliced  pot.atoes  out  of  the  water  risiht  into  tln>  eold  lard.  Keep  well 
eo^orod.  tiud   turn  over  oft-ni. 

OKi:.\YiKn  i\vpA  roi:s. 

Cut  into  diee  eold  Irish  potatoes;  have  them  not  too  well  done.  I'nt  into  a 
skillet  a  larjio  lnni]>  of  Inittev.  one  table.sptvinfid  oi  tlom-;  lot  thom  oroam 
to.cether.  not  fry.  tb.en  ji'eutl^N'  sliv  in  one  pint  of  milk:  when  it  is  hot.  put  in 
yonr  potatoes,  aitd  season  with  salt  .and  ]>epper.  Shako  the  pan  so  thoy  will 
not   brown:  keep  oinorod.     \A'hon  tho  i>ot;itoos  ;iro  heated  thron.ch.  dish  up. 

t.TiKi.KH  rorvi'(M:s. 

Prepare,  tlu^  potatoes  the  same  as  to  boil:  let  them  eook  thoronjihly.  th  mi 
mash  and  season  well,  and  press  them  through  the  eolander  into  the  dish  yon 
wish  to  serve  them  in:  sot  them  iitto  the  ovon  to  brown. 


VKciirr  aiu.es. 


145 


S("AI.I>()l'i:i»    IKISII    I'OTA'roiOS. 

I'ccl   ;ili(l   slice   lliiii;    llicii    iiilo   ;i    liii    l»;isiii    i)ii1,  ii,  l;l.vci'  of   |t<i(iitocs,   sidinklc 
Avilli  ix'pp'"''.  ^''1'  '■'"••  ii  liiUc  Hour,  u  siiiiill  piece  of  butler,  tlieii  .-niotlier  layer 
of  iM)lji(oes,   llicii   seasoiiiiiii-,   until  you   have  your  basin   filled;   (lieu  pour  over 
swt'ct  milk  to  liaif  I  lie  deplli  of  jiotatoes,  and  baki>  one  liall'  hour. 
Mi-fs.  J.  Willis,  .Springllold,  (Jliio. 

POTATO   SOUFFLE. 

Boil  four  i^'ood-sized  potatoes,  and  rub  tlieiii  (hi'oufih  a  sieve.  Take  one  cup- 
ful of  sweet  milk  and  one  cupful  of  l)Utter;  let  tliem  coni(«  to  a  boil  in  a  sauce- 
pan; a(hl  the  potatoes,  a  jiinch  of  salt,  a  litth'  white  pepper,  and  beat  to  a  cr  "am; 
then  put  in,  one  at  a  time,  tlie  yolks  of  four  ejjf^s,  beatinjx  it  well.  Drop  a  i  incli 
of  salt  into  the  whites,  and  beat  to  a  stiff  froth;  add  this  to  the  mixture,  stir  in 
lightly,  and  pour  into  a  w  cll-Imttered  disli;  bake  twenty  minutes.  Eat  witli 
tnc'uls  that  have  Ki'ivies. 

Mi-s.  M.  A.  E.,  Nuw  London,  N(^w  IIiirnj)sliire. 

rOTATOFS  A   L'ALF'.FllT. 

Poiiitiifn  <le  Terra  h  r Albert. 

'lake  some  new  pot.-itoes,  cleanse,  and  iieel  tliem   into  olive  shajies,   usiiij:  ji 

jxariiisiiin;:;-knife  for  the  purpose;  ])Ut  tliem  into  cold  water,  witli  a  jiinch  of  salt, 

briiij,'  them  to  a  boil,  and  let  them  simmer  until  cooked  without  breaking;  dish 


ctf^J'^-Jt^SS 


them  uj)  in  a  pile  on  a  liot  disli,  and  pour  over  tliem  some  tomato  jiuree,  s]»riiikle 
with  a  little  cliopped  raw  green  parsley,  and  serve  tor  dinner  or  lunclieon  as  a 
dressed  vegetable. 

POTATOES  A   LA   DUMANOIR. 

Peel,  wash  and  drain  eight  sound  potatoes,  cut  them    into  .lulienne-shaped 

pieces,  and  wash  and  drain  them  again;  season  with  a  pinch  of  salt  and  on(! 

half  pinch  of  pepper.     Butter  lightly  eight  tartlet-niolds  with  clarified  butter, 

covei-  the  bottoms  with  Parmesan  cheese;  arrange  a  layer  of  potatoes  on  top, 

si)rinkle  mon^  cheese  over  them,  and  continue  until  all  are  filled,  finishing  by 

sprinkling  cheese  over  the  surface  and  dropping  a  little  clarified  Iiutter  over  all. 

Set  tliem  on  a  very  hot  stove  for  twenty-five  minut«'s;  uumold,  and  place  tl  em 

in  a  hot  dish  with  a  folded  napkin,  and  serve. 

Giistavp   Roraud,  Chef  of  (Jaliimet  Club,   Chicago,  Formerly  Chef    of  William   Astor, 
New  Voi-k. 

FRIED  SWEET  POTATOES. 

Peel,    and    slice   tliem    as   you    would    bread;    fry    them    in    as    little    lard    as 
possible  to  keep  fhem  from  burning. 
Mrs.  W.  B.  R.,  Jackson,  Michigan. 


146  VEGETABLES. 

BAKED  SWEET  POTATOES. 

Pare  ;md  cook  like  Irish  potatoes,  tben  mash,  and  season  with  butter,  pepper 
and  salt.  Pile  upon  a  pie-pan,  and  set  in  the  oven  to  brown.  Slip  off  on  a 
plutter  as  whole  as  possible. 

MOCK  SWEET  POTATO. 

Take  a  ripe  squash,  cut  into  good-sized  pieces,  part  nicely,   and  boil  until 
tender  in  enough  water  to  prevent  burning;  then  take  out,  put  into  a  buttered 
pan,  and  bake  a  nice  brown.    Eaten  hot  or  cold. 
Mrs.  M.  A.  Park,  Jacksonville,  Illinois. 

TOMATOES. 

Scald  and  peel  some  ripe  tomatoes;  put  into  a  skillet,   with   some  butter, 
sugar,  salt  and  pepper;  let  them  boll  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes.     Take  one  pint 
of  sweet  cream  or  rich  milk,  stir  in  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  and  then  add  to 
the  tomatoes;  let  them  come  to  a  boil,  and  then  serve. 
Lillie  Ball,  Franklin,  Ohio. 

INDIAN  STEAY  OF  TOMATOES. 

Boil  six  smooth  tomatoes,  cut  them  into  halves,  and  press  out  the  seeds;  put 
them  into  a  saucepan,  add 

^2  green  pepper,  chopped  fine,  y^  teaspooufnl  of  pepper, 

1  teaspoonful  of  salt,  %  teaspoonful  of  ginger, 

1  teaspoonful  of  turmeric  dissolved  in  a  little  cold  water. 

Cover  the  tomatoes  with  stock.  If  you  have  chicken-bones,  they  may  be 
added,  and  you  may  then  use  water.  Cook  slowly  for  one  half  hour;  see  that 
the  tomatoes  are  not  robbed  of  their  shape;  when  done,  remove  the  bones,  if 
you  have  used  them,  add  one  tablespoouful  of  lemon-juice,  one  tablespoonful  of 
butter,  and  one  tablespoonful  of  flour  moistened  in  a  little  cold  water;  bring  to 
the  boiling-point,  and  serve.  This  is  one  of  the  daintiest  ways  of  serving  this 
vegetable. 

Mrs.  S.  T.  Rorer,  Principiil  Philadelphia  Cooking  School. 

STUFFED  TOMATOES. 

Select  some  large  tomatoes  of  even  size,  and  scoop  out  a  small  place  in  the 
top,  and  fill  with  a  stuffing  made  as  follows:  Fry  a.  small  onion,  chopped  fine, 
in  one  tablespoonful  of  butter;  when  nearly  done,  add  some  bread-crumbs 
moistened  with  a  little  milk  or  water,  and  season  with  pepper  and  salt;  put  a 
little  bit  of  butter  on  each,  aud  then  bake. 

Another  dressing  is  made  as  follows:  Chop  very  fine,  cold  meat  or  fowl  of 
any  kind,  with  a  very  small  piece  of  bacon  added;  fry  one  finely  chopped  onion 
in  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  aud  when  nearly  done,  add  the  meat,  some 
bread-crumbs,  pepper  aud  salt;  cook  one  minute;  mix  well,  add  the  yolk  of  an 
egg,  and  fill  the  tomatoes;  place  in  a  baking-dish;  sprinkle  bread-crumbs  over 
them,  with  some  small  bits  of  butter,  and  bake.  Use  either  as  a  garnish  or  as 
a  dish  by  itself. 


VEGETABLES.  147 

TOJNIATO  OYSTERS. 

r*;ii-e  four  large  tomatoes,  and  cook  them  well;  season  with  one  half  teaspoon- 
fiil  of  butter,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Pour  one  quart  of  boiliug  milk  over  a 
dish  of  crackers,  then  add  the  cooked  tomatoes,  with  one  half  teaspoouful  of 
soda  dissolved  in  a  little  cold  milk. 

Mrs.  S.  II.  Dixon,  East  Liverpool,  Ohio. 

TOMATO  CUSTARD. 

1  pint  of  tomatoes,  stewed  and  strained,         1  teacupful  of  sugar, 
4  eggs,  2  pints  of  milk. 

Dake  in  small  cups,  quickly.    This  is  a  good  disli  for  invalids. 
Mrs.  J.  E.  Butler,  Folsoni,  California. 

BAKED  TOMATOES. 

Cover  the  bottom  of  an  earthen  dish  with  ripe  tomatoes,  sliced;  then  a  layer 
of  bread-crumbs,  seasoned  Avith  pepper,  salt  and  initter;  tlien  another  layer  of 
tomatoes,  and  so  continue  until  tlie  dish  is  tilled,  letting  the  topmost  layer  be  of 
the  bread-crumbs.    Bake  fifteen  minutes. 
L.  E.  C,  Sherman,  New  York. 

TOMATO   TOAST. 

Coolv  four  common-sized  tomatoes  and  two  small  onions,  pared,  and  sliced 
fine,  for  three  quarters  of  an  hour;  drain  off  the  water,  add  salt  and  pepper  to 
suit  the  taste,  two  thirds  of  a  cupfiU  of  sweet  milk  or  cream,  a  piece  of  butter 
tlie  size  of  a  hen's  egg.  Have  ready  some  pieces  of  toasted  bread,  and  pour  the 
tomatoes  over  them. 

Hattie  M.  H.,  Cattaraugus,  New  York. 

TOMATO  FRITTERS. 

Scald  and  peel  the  tomatoes  in  the  usual  way;  tlien  put  them  into  a  tray,  and 
chop  them  tine  (the  tomato  goes  nearly  half  to  water);  season  with  pepper  and 
salt  to  suit  the  taste,  and  stir  in  flour  to  make  a  tliin  batter,  with  one  half  tea- 
spoonful  of  soda  in  it.    Fry  over  a  quick  fire  in  butter  or  lard,  and  serve  hot. 
Mrs.  I.  W.  Pritchett,  Fayette ville,  Alabama. 

FRIED  GREEN  CORN. 

Cut  the  corn  from  the  cob,  and  put  it  into  a  skillet  tluit  has  hot  butter  and 
lard  mixed;  season  with  pepper  and  salt.  Stir  it  often  to  keep  from  burning,  and 
co<jk  it  with  a  cover  over  it.  Corn  cooked  on  the  cob,  if  any  is  left  from  the  meal, 
may  be  cooked  in  this  way  or  put  into  the  oven  and  broAvned. 

BAKED  CORN. 

One  dozen  ears  of  corn.  Witli  a  sharp  knife  split  the  kernels  down  througli 
the  middle,  and  scrape  the  corn  from  the  cob  into  a  baking-dish;  season  with 
pepper  and  salt,  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  and  put 
enough  milk  over  it  to  just  barely  cover  it.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven  tAventy-five 
minutes. 


148  TegetableS. 

DEIED  SWEET  COItX  AND  BEAXS. 

Pour  one  quart  of  water  over  one  pint  of  dried  sweet  corn:  let  it  cook  until 
lu-arly  done.  Cook  one  pint  of  soup-beans  in  the  same  manner;  then  pour  them 
together,  and  cook  until  well  done;  season  with  butter  and  salt;  set  in  a  hot 
0^  en.  and  bake  one  half  hour. 

Mrs.  A.  C.  Tinkey,  Lexington,  Ohio. 

GREEN  CORN  OX  THE  COB. 

Take  off  the  outside  husks  and  the  silk,  letting:  the  innermost  husks  remain 
on  until  after  the  corn  is  boiled,  as  it  makes  the  corn  much  sweeter.  Boil  one 
half  hour  in  plenty  of  water;  drain,  and  after  taking  off  the  husks,  serve  hot. 

CORN  CUSTARD. 

Cut  corn  from  the  cob;  mix  it — not  too  thinly — with  milk,  add  two  or  three 
beaten  eggs,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Bake  half  an  horn*.  To  be  served  as  a 
vegetable. 

Mrs.  B.  F.  Anthony.  Providence,  Rhode  Island. 

HULLED  CORN. 

Fill  a  large  pot  half  full  of  wood  ashes:  then  nearly  till  with  water,  and  boil 
ten  minutes.  After  draining  off  the  lye.  throw  out  the  ashes,  and  put  the  lye 
back  into  the  kettle;  pour  in  four  quarts  of  shelled  corn,  and  boil  until  the  hull 
will  rub  off:  then  put  all  iuto  a  tub,  and  pour  on  a  pailful  of  cold  water.  Take 
an  old  broom  and  scrub  the  corn.  As  the  water  thickens,  pour  off  and  add  clean 
cold  water.  Put  through  four  waters,  and  then  take  out  in  a  pan,  and  rub 
between  the  hands;  picli  out  all  hulls,  and  put  it  on  to  cook  in  cold  water;  when 
half  boiled,  pour  off.  and  renew  with  cold  water.  Do  not  salt  it  until  it  is  tender, 
and  do  not  let  it  burn.  Put  into  jars,  and  eat  with  milk. 
Mrs.  W.  Chamberlain,  Dubuque,  Iowa. 

TO  HULL  CORN. 

One  large  mixing-spoonful  of  soda  to  one  quart  of  corn;  add  water  enough  to 
cover  it:  let  it  soak  over  night,  and  boil  in  the  same  water  until  the  hulls  will 
rub  off. 

H.  W.  J.,  Xorth  Charleston,  New  Hampshire. 

CORN  FRITTERS. 

Scrape  the  corn  from  six  good-sized  ears,  mix  with  it  one  large  cupful  of 
bread-crumbs,  season  with  pepper,  salt  and  one  teaspoonful  of  sugar.  Drop  one 
tablespoonful  of  the  mixture  into  hot  lard,  not  too  deep,  tin-n  over  like  griddle- 
cakes. 

Leffie  Maize,  Ashland,  Ohio. 

CANNED  CORN. 

Take  one  and  one  fourth  ounces  of  tartaric  acid,  and  dissolve  in  one  half  pint 
of  water.    Of  this  solution,  take  one  tablespoonful  to  each  pint  of  corn,  after  first 
bringing  the  corn  to  the  boiling-point.     When  opened  for  use,  put  in  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  soda  for  each  three  pints  of  corn, 
Edith  R.  Martin,  Remsboro,  West  Virginia. 


veptETables.  149 

COltX  OYSTEKS. 

(J rate  one  dozoti  oars  of  corn  into  a  iiaii;  add  a  pinch  of  salt  and  a  little 
^»el)l^er.  Drop  iu  spoonfuls  into  a  woll-fireased  skillet.  As  soon  as  broAvu,  turn 
over  like  griddle-calces.  They  sliould  be  the  size  of  large  oysters.  Excellent 
breakfast  dish. 

SUCCOTASH. 

Use  double  the  quantity  of  corn  that  you  do  of  beans.  Coolc  the  beans  three 
or  four  hours.  Put  in  the  corn,  that  has  been  cooking  iu  another  kettle,  an  hour 
before  serving.  Let  them  cook  well,  being  careful  not  to  let  it  stick  to  the  kettle. 
Season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  a  lump  of  butter. 

STEING-BEANS. 

Take  off  the  point  and  butt  of  the  bean,  wasli,  and  break  as  small  as  you  can, 
and  lay  in  cold  water  until  ready  to  use.  Put  on  to  cook  in  cold  water;  when 
this  l)oils,  pour  it  off,  and  add  other  boiling  water  and  a  piece  of  salt  pork;  cook 
one  hour.    Season,  and  scud  to  the  table  hot. 

LIMA  BEANS. 

Shell,  wash,  and  put  them  into  boiling  water,  Avith  a  little  salt;  when  boiled 

tender,  drain  off  tlie  water.    Serve  with  a  cupful  of  sweet  cream  or  milk,  with  a 

lump  of  butter  in  it  the  size  of  an  egg.    Salt  and  pepper,  and  let  them  simmer  a 

tew  moments. 

CREAMED  CABBAGE. 

One  pint  of  cold  cooked  cabbage  chopped  fine  and  placed  in  a  baking-dish; 
heat  one  pint  of  milk;  melt  in  a -saucepan  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  add  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  tlour,  and  then  the  hot  milk,  stirring  until  smooth  after  each 
addition;  add  one  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  little  pepper;  pour  the  milk  mixture 
over  the  chopped  cabbage;  melt  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  add  eight  table- 
sjiooufuls  of  roiled  cracker-crumbs;  sprinkle  this  over  the  top  of  the  moistened 
cabbage.     Bake  uutil  hot  and  a  delicate  brown. 

Miss  Marion  L.  Campbell,  Friendly  Inn  Cooking  School,  Cleveland,  Ohio. 

FRIED  CABBAGE. 

1  head  of  cabbage,  chopped  fine,  1  teaspoonful  of  soda, 

1  cupful  of  good  bacon-grease,  2  tea  spoonfuls  of  sugar, 

1  or  ^2  pint  of  boiling  water,  y^  l>od  of  red  pepper, 
Salt  to  suit  tlie  taste. 

l<'ry  in  a  skillet,  stirring  occasionally,  until  brown. 
Mrs.  J.  T.,  Dublin  Depot,  Virginia. 

BOILED  C.VBB.\GE. 

Take  off  the  outer  leaves,  cut  the  head  into  quarters,  and  boil  iu  a  large 
quantity  of  water  until  done;  drain,  and  press  out  the  water,  chop  fine,  and 
season.  Boil  three  quarters  of  an  hour,  or  until  tender.  The  water  can  be 
drained  off  when  tliey  are  half  done,  and  fresh  water  added,  if  desired. 


hUl  VEGETAlU.Et?. 

SMOTHKUKP  i\u;k.u;K. 

.Mtov  l\w  Uioai  is  fnod,  (.-vit  1ino  ;i  snu'.U  ho;ul  ol'  i';llib:iiiO.  and  put   it   iulo  tho 
dish  whovo  iho  uu>ai    was  fviod:  pour  on  a  vory  little  wator,  and  season  with 
pepiior  and  sail.     (,\»\  or  it  Tijihtly,  and  let  it  stand  lifteeu  or  twenty  minutes. 
Mj-s.  E.  Smith.  Mooiv's  Uill,  Indian;). 

TO   lUMl.  OXIOXS. 

l*oil  for  one  lialf  hour,  then  pour  oil"  the  water.    'Pake  one  pint  ol"  milk,  butter 
the  size  of  an  e.ui;:  put  in  the  onions  and  slew  until  done. 
Mrs.  1?.  F.  A.,  rrovidonco.  Uhodo  Island. 

OMON"  s■^K^^•. 

Pi-el  the  onions,  sliee.  and  let  them  stand  in  eold  water  one  half  hour;  put 
them  oit  to  boil  in  fresh,  eold  water  for  three  minutes,  then  pottr  off  the  water, 
add  more,  let  it  boil  the  sanse  as  before,  and  repent  this  three  times.  In  the 
fourth  Avnter  let  them  eook  tttitil  tender:  strain,  and  ptit  in  milk,  a  pieee  of 
bi'.tier.  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Thiekeu  with  tlour. 
A.  K.  D.,  JSow  NVaterford,  Ohio. 

S'rrFFEP   OMONS. 

Have  some  larjie  onions,  em  into  halves,  hollow  the  eeiuer:  make  a  forcemeat 

of  either  jiame  or  poultry,  till  the  cavities,  cook  in  stock,  and  serve. 

Gustavo  Korand.  Ohof  of  Calumet  Club,  Chicago,  Illinois,  Formerly  Chef  of  William 
Astor,  New  York. 

PKOOU A'ln V i:  >Et^ETARLES. 
C'tit  slices  of  white  potato,  carrots  or  turnii>s  into  fancy  shapes:  cook  until 


EB 


o 


a  piit  can  be  jstuck  into  them,  then  drain  on  a  sieve.     Use  to  garnish  meats, 
saiads  or  boiled  h;tm. 

CAKliOTS. 

A\'ash  and  scrape  as  new  potatoes,  ctit  into  thin  slices  as  you  would  ctictim- 
bers.  Put  on  in  eold  water,  with  a  little  salt,  and  boil  until  tender.  Potir  off 
most  of  the  water,  and  .add  a  lump  of  butter  dipped  into  tlour. 

CAIIKOTS.  STEAYED. 

Ctit  the  eanvts  lengthwise,  and  boil  until  tender:  then  vsllee  very  thin,  and 
put  itito  a  saucepan,  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and  a  eupfttl  of  cream  or 
milk:  season,  and  stew  a  quarter  of  an  hour. 


VEGKTAHLKS.  ITtl 


TCJIMI'S. 


reel  ;iii(l  wiisli  lli'-iii;  cdt  iiilo  lliiii  slices,  .•md  jtoiir  lioiliiit,'  wjitci'  over  (Ih'Im. 
(/0<»k  tliciii  oiu'  liair  to  ilircc  (iiiMilcrs  of  nil  liour.  Masli  (liciii  siiioolli,  and 
Koasou  Willi  butter,  pepper  and  salt. 

BOILED  SAr.SIKV. 

"I  do  not  know,"  says  JNI.  Soycr,  "why  this  vcfActahlc,  which  is  held  in  such 
hij?li  esteem  in  Europe,  should  be  so  little  esteemed  by  us.  1  will  here  supply 
their  manner  of  cookin.n'  it,  and  perhaps  you  will  ixiv^'  it  ii  fiiir  trial.  Take 
twelve  middliu;;-sized  ones,  scrape  them  well  until  (luite  white,  rub  each  with 
a  lemon,  and  put  it  into  cold  water.  Put  into  a  stew-pan  one  fourth  of  a 
pound  of  beef  or  mutton  suet  cut  into  small  dice,  one  onion,  a  bit  of  thyme,  a 
bsiy-leaf,  on(>  t;iblespoonful  of  salt  and  lour  <'loves;  put  on  the  fire,  and  stir  for 
live  minutes;  add  two  tabli»spoonfuls  of  Hour,  and  stir  well;  then  add  three  pints 
of  A\ater.  AVheii  just  boiliiif?.  i)ut  in  your  salsify,  and  simmer  until  tender. 
'J'hey  will  take  n(>arly  one  hour.  Dish  on  tojist;  sauce  over  with  Duteh,  maitre 
d'hotel  or  onion  sauce,  or  a  very  jjood  demi-f^laze  or  Italian  sauce.  Should  any 
remain,  they  may  be  made  into  fi'itters,  thus:  Put  them  into  a  basin,  add  a 
little  salt,  [)eppei-,  two  si)ooiifuls  of  vinejuar,  one  half  clioi)ped  shallot  and  one 
spoonful  of  oil;  place  in  the  salsify,  and  let  it  remain  foi'  some  hours.  When 
ready  to  serve,  make  a  small  (juantity  of  batter,  di])  each  i)iece  into  it,  and  fry 
for  five  minutes  in  lard  or  fat;  dish  up  with  fried  parsley  over." 

FRIED   SALSIFY,  OK   SALSIFY   FKITTEKS. 

P.oil  the  salsify  until  tender,  or,  if  preferred,  take  the  remains  of  dressed 
salsify.  Drain  and  dry  the  roots  by  pressin.i;-  them  in  a  soft  cloth.  Make  a 
littl(>  fryiiifi-batter,  dip  each  root  separately  into  this,  throw  them  into  hot  fat, 
and  fry  thc;n  until  they  are  lijihtly  bi'owiie<l.  Take  them  np,  drain  tlwrn  on  a 
sieve,  and  serve  very  hot,  piled  hij,'h  on  a  dish  and  {garnished  with  fried  parsley. 
No  sauce  will  be  needed  for  them  when  dressed  in  this  way.  Sometimes  the; 
salsify  is  dipped  into  esj?  and  bread-crumbs,  instead  of  batter,  before  fryinj;. 
\\'hen  batter  is  used,  it  may  be  made  as  follows:  Put  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
fiour  into  a  bowl,  Avitli  one  salt-spoonful  of  salt  and  one  oinice  of  fresh  butter; 
add  as  much  lukewarm  water  as  will  melt  the  butter,  and  beat  the  whole  to  a 
su'.ooth  batter.  Put  it  into  a  cold  i)lace,  and  ten  minutes  before  it  is  wauled 
add  the  Avell-whisked  white  of  an  ejAjr.  The  salsify  is  occasiomilly  soaked  in 
vinesar,  with  a  little  peppe-r  and  .salt,  before  it  is  fried,  but  this  is  not  neces- 
sary. When  it  has  been  done,  the  roots  should  be  thorouf^hly  drained  afterward. 
'J'ime,  one  latur  to  boil  the  salsify;  to  be  fiied  until  crisp. 

SALSIFY.  OK  ^-EiJETAP.LE  OYSTEKS. 

Scrape  ve^etaltle  oysters,  and  throw  them  into  cold  Avater  to  prevent  dis- 
coloring. When  you  have  suflicient,  cut  them  into  pieces  one  half  inch  long, 
and  boil  in  just  enough  water  to  cover  until  tender.  Drain  off  the  water,  add 
one  quart  of  milk,  butter  the  size  of  an  egff,  and  a  little  salt.  Thicken  with  one 
Vablespoonful  of  flour  made  smooth  in  a  little  cold  milk.  Have  ready  a  pan  of 
nice  biscuits;  split  them  open  on  a  platter,  turn  the  oysters  over,  and  serve. 
Mrs.  F.  C.  K.,  Douglas,  Michigan. 


152  VEGETABLES. 

SALSIFY   C'KOQUETTES. 

W;ish  and  scrape  the  salsify,  and  boil  until  perfectly  tender,  rub  it  throu.^li  a 
col.-uuier  or  uiasb  it,  and  mix  witli  the  puree  a  little  butter,  ereani.  salt,  cayenne 
and  lemon-juice;  beat  it  until  tbo  in.mvdients  are  tUorouyhly  mixed  and  con- 
stitute a  stitl",  smooth  paste.  Place  this  on  ice,  and  Avhen  it  is  cpiite  cold,  shape 
it  into  the  form  of  corks.  I>ip  these  into  clarified  butter,  or,  if  preferred,  into 
l)eaten  egg  and  grated  bread-crumbs,  and  fry  them  in  hot  fat  until  they  are 
crisp  and  brown.    Lift  them  up,  drain,  and  serve. 

EGG-PLANT. 

Cut  the  egg-plant  tlu'ougli  the  center;  dig  out  of  tlie  shell  the  contents,  and 
put  them  into  a  choppiug-bowl.  Chop  line;  season  with  salt,  butter  and  pepper; 
mix  one  cupful  of  bread-crumbs  in  the  mess,  and  return  it  to  the  shells,  pouring 
in  some  hot  water.  Put  into  a  pan,  and  halve  in  the  oven.  Dish  tip  in  their  own 
shells. 

BAKED   ECiG-PLANT. 

Boil  until  soft,  and  scoop  out  all  the  inside;  mash  fine,  and  to  every  cupful  add 
one  tablespoouful  of  craclvcr-crumbs,  one  teaspoonful  of  butter,  and  pepper  and 
salt  to  taste;  put  into  a  dish  for  the  table,  beat  an  egg  very  light,  and  spread  a 
part  over  the  top  of  tiie  dish,  then  sprinlvle  with  rolled  craclcer,  and  lastly 
spread  with  the  remainder  of  the  egg.    Set  into  the  oveu  to  brown. 

FRIED  EGG-PLANT. 

Cut  the  egg-plant  into  slices  one  half  incli  tliick;  pare  the  pieces,  and  lay 
tliem  in  a  weak  salt  and  water  brine,  and  keep  them  well  under  the  brine  for  an 
hour  or  more;  then  wipe  each  slice,  and  dip  it  into  a  beaten  egg,  and  roll  it  in 
bread-crumbs  or  grated  crackers.  Fry  it  in  hot  lard  until  soft  and  a  nice  brown 
color. 

Bettie  Ferguson,  Stockton,  Alabama. 

SCALLOI'ED  VEGETABLE  OYSTEKS. 

Scrape  the  roots,  and  cut  them  into  small  pieces;  boil  them  until  tender;  then 
talvc  bread  or  cracker  crumbs,  and  put  a  layer  of  each  into  a  pudding-dish. 
Season  eacli  layer  A^-ith  pepper  and  salt,  butter  and  parsley;  when  the  dish  is 
fnll.  pour  one  quart  of  sweet  milk  over  it,  and  bake  one  and  one  half  hours. 
Mrs.  Louisa  Asli,  Mount  Vernon,  Ohio. 

STEWED  MUSHROOJMS. 

If  fresh,  let  thent  lie  in  salt  and  water  .ibout  one  hour,  then  put  them  into 
tlie  stew-pan.  cover  witli  water,  and  let  them  cook  gently  for  two  hours;  dress 
them  with  cream,  butter  and  flour  as  oysters,  and  season  to  taste. 

BAKED   aiUSHROOMS. 

I'lace  some  large,  flat  ones,  nicely  cleaned  and  trimmed,  on  thin  slices  of 
well-buttered  toast,  putting  a  little  nudgel  of  Imtter  in  each,  as  also  a  snuff  of 
pepper  and  salt;  lay  thi-m  on  a  baking-tray,  and  cover  them  carefully;  heap  the 
lior  aslies  upon  them,  and  let  them  bake  on  the  hearth  for  fifteen  or  twenty 
minutes. 


Vegetables.  153 

i5k()ilk1>  misjiuooms. 

(Jiitlicr  thciii  fresh;  jcirc  ;m(l  cut  olT  tlic  stems;  dip  tliciii  into  melted  butter. 
Se.-isdii  very  little  wilh  s;il(  uiid  jti'iiper,  and  hroil  tliem  on  l)otli  sides  over  ;i 
clear  lire.    Serve  ou  toast, 

PARSNIPS. 

Boil  nntil  tender;  then  slice  them,  and  dip  the  slices  into  a,  baiter  such 
as  you  would  make  tor  pancakes.  Fry  in  hot  lard  until  browu.  Add  pepper  and 
sair  to  suit  the  taste. 

Mrs.  Lou  llussel,  Bt.  Mary's,  Koiitucky. 

TO  COOK  I'AKSXirS. 

'Hcrajx'  nicely  and  split  lengthwise:  wanh  in  cold  water,  and  put  on  to  cook  in 
a  steainer  over  boilin;;  wjiter.  W  hen  done  enoUf;h  to  insert  u  fork,  put  into  a 
nieat-i)an;  season  with  salt  and  pepper;  turn  over  tiiem  a  bowl  of  gravy.  Put 
them  into  the  oven,  and  bake  brown.     Serve  on  a  platter. 

ASPAIlAtiTJS. 

Scrape  the  stems  lightly  to  within  two  Inches  of  th(>  points,  throw  them  into 
cold  water  for  a  few  minutes;  tie  in  bunches  of  equal  size,  cut  the  large,  white 
ends  off,  that  tliey  may  be  all  of  the  same  length;  then  throw  into  boiling 
water,  a  little  salted,  and  boil  rapidly  for  twenty  or  twenty-live  minutes,  or 
until  quite  tender.  Have  prepared  a  round  of  bread  nicely  toasted,  whicli  di]t 
quickly  into  the  boiling  asi)aragus-water;  then  dish  the  asi)aragHs  upon  it  with 
the  points  meeting  in  the  center.     Send  to  the  table  with  rich  melted  butler. 

ASPARAGUS  TJPOX  TOAST. 

'l"ie  the  buncli  of  asparagus  up  with  soft  siring,  when  you  have  cut  away 
the  wood,  and  cook  about  twenty-five  minutes  in  salted,  boiling  water.  Have 
ready  some  slices  of  crustless  toast;  dip  each  into  the  as])aragus  li(pior;  butter 
well  while  hot,  and  lay  upon  a  heated  disli.  Dniin  the  asparagus,  and  arrange 
upon  the  toast.     Pepper,  salt  and  butter  genenmsly. 

TO  COOK  SUMMEIt  SQUASHES. 

Peel,  and  remove  the  seeds,  place  over  the  fire,  with  a  little  water  and  salt; 
when  fender,  mash,  and  season  with  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  on(!  tal)lespoon- 
ful  of  butter  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cream.  This  will  make  a  dish  for  a 
common-sized  family. 

KininaC.  Holler,  Vannati,  Ohio. 

BAKED  HUBBARD  SQUASH. 

Chop  the  scjuash  open  with  a  liatchet,  in  small  pieces  four  or  five  inches 
S(iuare;  take  out  all  the  se«'ds,  but  do  not  peel  off  the  skin;  lay  the  pieces  in  a 
small  drii)ping-i)an,  and  pour  in  a  i)int  of  warm  water*;  set  it  into  the  oven  to 
bake,  keeping  a  little  water  in  the  i)an  while  they  cook.  They  re<piire  one  half 
to  three  quarters  of  an  hour  to  cook.  Serve  in  their  own  shells. 
Mis.  W.  I{.  Rtid,  Jackson,  Michij^an. 


154 


VEGETABLES. 


BAKED  SQUASH. 

Pare  the  squash,  remove  the  seeds,  steam  until  tender;  then  strain  through 
a  colander,  and  for  every  pint  of  squash  add  on-.'  half  pint  of  bread  or  cracker 
crumbs,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one  half  cupful  of  sweet  milk  and  pepper 
and  salt  to  taste;  bake  for  one  hour. 
F.  H.  C,  College  Hill,  Ohio. 

DRIED  SQUASH  FOR  PIES. 

Cut  into  thin  slices,  and  dry  over  the  stove  or  outdoors.     AA^hen  wanted  for 
use,  soak  in  water  over  night,  drain  off  before  cooking,  and  add  fresh  milk. 
Mrs.  M.  A.  Park,  Jacksonville,  Illinois. 

SQUASH  FRITTERS. 

Take  three  medium-sized  squashes,  cook  until  tender,  mash,  and  drain  them 
well;  season  with  pepper  and  salt;  add  one  cupful  of  milk  or  cream,  the  yolks 
of  two  eggs,  flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter,  and  stir  in  tlie  well-beaten  whites  of 
the  eggs;  have  a  skillet  of  hot  lard,  and  fry  brown.    Serve  immediately. 
E.  H.  McG.,  Binghamton,  New  York. 


Vjegetable-dish. 

TIMBAL  OF  MACARONI   A   LA   MILANAISE. 

Timbal-case  should  be  left  in  the  mold  to  be  made  hot  in  the  oven,  and  when 
just  on  the  point  of  sending  to  the  table,  garnish  with  macaroni  dressed  with 
cheese,  some  bechamel  sauce,  scallops  of  fowl,  truffles,  tongues  and  mushrooms; 
turn  the  timbal  out  on  the  dish,  glaze  it,  pour  some  bechamel  sauce  around  the 
base,  and  serve. 

Louis  C.  Zerega,  Chef  Hotel  Ponce  de  Leon,  St.  Augustine,  Florida. 


STEWED  MACARONI. 

Boil  two  ounces  of  macaroni  in  water  until  tender;  drain  well.  Put  into  a 
saucepan  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  mixed  with  four  tablespoonfuls  of  vefil  or 
beef  stock  and  one  tablespoonful  of  flour,  one  fourth  pint  of  cream;  season  with 
salt  and  white  pepper,  put  in  the  macaroni,  let  it  boil  up,  and  serve  while  hot. 


VEGETABLES.  155 

MACAKONI,  WITH  CHEESE. 

Throw  into  boiling  water  some  macaroni,  witli  salt  according  to  quantity 
used;  let  it  boil  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  drain  off  the  water;  place  the  macaroni 
in  a  saucepan,  with  enough  milli  to  cover,  boil  until  done.  Butter  a  pudding- 
dish,  sprinkle  the  bottom  with  plenty  of  grated  cheese,  put  in  the  macaroni,  a 
little  white  pepper,  plenty  of  butter,  and  sprinlile  ou  more  cheese,  then  anotlier 
layer  of  macaroni,  seasoned,  then  cheese.  Cover  the  last  layer  of  cheese  with 
bread-crumbs.  Some  add  a  very  little  dry  mustard  flour  on  every  layer  of  the 
macaroni  to  improve  the  tlavor.     Set  in  a  quicli  oven  to  brown. 

FIUED  CUCUMBERS. 

Peel  large.  Avell-grown  cucumbers,  and  cut  them  into  thin  slices;  sprinlde 
witli  salt  and  pepper,  dip  into  beaten  egg,  then  into  grated  craclcer,  and  fry 
brown  in  boiling  lard. 

Ci:CUMBERS   FRIED   IN   BATTER. 

I'are  riu-ee  or  fonr  good-sized  cucumbers,  cut  them  into  very  thin  slices, 
sprinkle  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  let  stand  twenty  minutes.  Beat  one  egg, 
mix  with 

1  pint  of  sifted  flour,  1  teaspoonful  of  baking-powder, 

1  teaspoonful  of  butter,        A  pinch  of  salt,  and  sweet  milk  to  make  batter. 
Bent  until  very  smooth;  dip  the  slices  of  cucumber  into  this  batter,  and  fry 
in  boiling  lard;  take  up,  drain  on  brown  paper,  and  serve  hot. 

STEWED  CUCUMBERS. 

Peel,  cut  them  into  quarters,  talvc  out  the  seeds,  and  soak  them  in  cold  water 
for  oue  half  liour,  put  into  a  saucepan,  cover  with  boiling  water,  add  one  tea- 
spoonful of  salt,  and  boil  tender;  when  done,  drain,  turn  iuto  a  vegetable-dish, 
pour  over  cream  sauce,  and  serve. 

SAUER-KRAUT. 

Buy  your  cal)bage  the  last  of  September,  by  the  hundred.  Remove  the  outer 
leaves  and  cores  of  cabbage,  and  cut  flue  on  a  slaw-cutter;  put  down  in  a  keg 
or  large  jar,  put  a  very  little  sprinkle  of  salt  between  each  layer,  and  pound 
each  layer  Avith  a  wooden  masher  or  mallet;  when  your  vessel  is  full,  place 
some  large  cabbage-leaves  on  top,  and  a  double  cloth  wrung  out  of  cold  Avater, 
then  a  cover  with  a  very  heavy  weight  on  it— a  large  stone  is  best.  Let  it  set 
for  six  weeks  before  using,  being  careful  to  remove  the  scum  that  rises  everj'^ 
day,  by  washing  out  the  cloth,  the  cover  and  the  weight  in  cold  water.  After 
six  weeks,  pour  off  the  liquid,  and  fill  over  it  Avith  clear,  cold  Avater.  This 
makes  it  very  nice  and  white. 
Christie  Irving. 

TO  COOK  SAUER-KRAUT. 

Pour  over  boiling  Avater  enough  to  cover  the  quantity  you  wish  to  use.  Let 
it  boil  for  three  hours,  well  coA^ered.  Some  prefer  a  piece  of  salt  or  pickled 
pork  cooked  AvitU  U,  Again,  others  boil  it  doAvn,  and  add  enough  butter  tg 
fry  it. 


156  VEGETABLES. 

STEWED  CELERY. 

Cleau  the  lioads  thoroughly;  take  off  the  coarse  green  outer  leaves;  cut  iuto 
small  pieces,  aud  stew  in  a  little  broth;  when  tender,  add  one  cupful  of  sweet 
cream,  one  teaspoouful  of  flour  and  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  hicliory-uut; 
season  with  pepper  and  salt,  aud  a  little  nutmeg  if  agreeable. 

A  YANKEE  BOILED  DINNER. 

Put  the  kettle  on  the  stove  with  two  and  one  half  pints  of  water  in  it.  Get 
a  medium-sized  cabbage-head,  wash,  and  cut  in  two.  Take  out  the  heart  (or 
stalk)  lay  the  halves  together,  and  put  them  into  a  kettle.  Prepare  as  much 
pork  as  you  want  for  dinner,  and  put  in  your  cabbage.  Next  a  good  sized, 
white,  sweet  beet  (red  will  do,  but  it  is  not  quite  so  nice);  wash,  peel  and  cut 
lengthwise  into  four  pieces.  If  desired,  put  in  turnips  with  the  beets,  cut  cross- 
wise. Boil  slowly  for  two  hours,  and  then  put  in  your  potatoes  and  slices  of 
squash.  If  the  pork  is  not  salty  enough,  season  with  a  pinch  of  salt.  A  red- 
pepper  pod  is  an  improvement,  also.  Boil  until  the  potatoes  are  done. 
Jane  M.  Revenaugh,  Eagle  Lake,  Minnesota. 

CAULIFLOWER. 

Choose  those  that  are  compact  and  of  good  color.  Strip  off  the  outside  leaves, 
wash  them  tlioroughly,  aud  lay  them  head  downward  in  a  panful  of  cold  water 
and  salt,  wJiich  will  draw  out  all  the  insects.  Boil  tliem  in  plenty  of  boiling 
water,  with  a  little  salt,  and  when  the  stalks  are  tender  they  are  ready;  then 
take  a  pint  of  boiling  water,  stir  iuto  it  a  batter  made  of  a  little  flour,  a  little 
milk  and  the  yolk  of  an  egg;  let  it  boil  a  few  minutes  until  as  thick  as  cream; 
then  put  in  a  piece  of  butter,  a  little  pepper  and  salt  and  some  nutmeg.  Serve 
with  the  cauliflower  while  hot. 

Emma  C.  Butz,  Newcastle,  Pennsylvania. 

SPINACH. 

^"\'ash  free  from  dirt  and  grit,  and  boil  twenty  minutes  in  salted  water;  draiu, 
aud  chop  very  fine;  add  butter,  salt,  pepper  and  nutmeg  to  taste.  Garnish  with 
hard-boiled  eggs  cut  into  slices. 

GUMBO.  OR  OKRA. 

Slice  the  young,  tender  pods  in  rings  one  eighth  of  an  inch  thick;  boil  in  salt- 
water twenty  minutes;  drain,  and  season  with  pepper  and  butter;  or  the  pods 
may  be  boiled  whole  in  salt-water,  and  put  on  buttered  toast. 
Mrs.  M.  Wilda  Mills,  Webster  Groves,  Missouri, 

STEAYED  ARTICHOKE  BOTTOMS. 

Dried  articholce  bottoms  should  be  soaked  for  two  or  three  hours  in  warm 
water,  then  boiled  in  salt  and  water,  and  served  Avith  white  sauce  poured  over 
them;  or  stewed  in  gravy  flavored  with  catchup,  salt  and  pepper,  and  thickenecl 
V  ith  flour.    Time  to  boil,  three  quarters  of  an  hour, 


Chapter  IX. 


Good  broad  makes  the  plainest  fare  npi)etizin.!:>",  Avliile  the  most  luxurious  table 
lacks  somethin;;-  without  it.  (ireat  care  aud  attention  must  be  taken  with  bread, 
from  the  time  the  sponge  is  set  until  it  is  safely  out  of  the  oven.  For  it  must  not 
be  allowed  to  rise  too  lons",  and  when  all  ready  for  the  oven  in  beautiful  loaves, 
it  may  be  spoiled  by  being  poorly  baked.  The  sponge  is  the  first  process,  and  in 
different  ways  of  making  bread  must  be  of  different  consistency;  also,  whether 
it  is  new  or  old  Avlieat.  But  one  must  be  an  accomplished,  cook  to  be  able  to 
detect  all  these  contingencies. 

However,  in  all  localities  there  are  good  brands  of  flour  to  ho  had.  and  it  is 
<vell  to  stick  to  the  one  witii  Avliicli  you  are  most  successful.  Some  succeed  witli  a 
brand  that  another  person  cannot  handle  at  all.  Tli(>  sponge  sliould  always  be 
kept  warm  and  at  an  eyen  temperature,  not  being  alloAved  to  stand  in  a  draft. 
In  winter  it  may  be  helped  very  much  by  setting  it  in  another  vessel  containing 
hot  water,  and  keeping  it  hot  by  filling  in  from  the  tea-kettle.  A  stone  crock  is 
the  best  thing  to  set  bread  in,  as  it  retains  the  heat  so  much  better  tlian  tin,  and 
tliey  come  Jiow  in  shallow  forms  like  the  wooden  bowls,  and  are  very  nice  for 
bread-making. 

In  molding  it  the  first  time,  all  the  flour  to  be  used  sliould  ho  put  in  at  this 
stage,  and  it  is  l)est  to  knead  it  tlie  longest  at  this  point,     In  tlie  summer-time, 

lo7 


158  BREAD,    BISCUIT,    ETC. 

sponge  setting  over  night  is  apt  to  tnru  sour  just  a  little;  this  can  be  remedied 
by  just  a  pinch  of  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water. 

In  all  these  recipes  a  cupful  of  yeast  means  wet  yeast,  and  in  using  dry  yeast 
enough  water  must  be  put  over  it  to  make  the  required  quantity. 

Bread  should  be  kneaded  verj^  little  at  the  second  molding.  And  when  set  to 
rise,  do  not  let  it  rise  to  its  fullest  capacity  before  putting  it  in  the  oven.  It  is 
best  to  grease  over  the  tops  of  the  loaves  with  butter  when  setting  it  to  rise  the 
last  time.    This  keeps  the  crust  tender  when  baking. 

When  putting  the  bread  in  the  oven,  it  should  be  hot  enough  to  hold  the  hand 
in  and  count  twenty  rather  quiclvly.  Care  must  be  taken  with  the  fire,  to  keep 
the  heat  steady,  allowing  it  to  gradually  die  away  toward  the  last  of  tlie  halving; 
and  this  is  the  best  time  to  set  in  your  rolls,  as  a  more  moderate  fire  is  necessary 
for  them. 

Flour  should  be  kept  in  a  cool,  dry  place.  If  possible,  have  some  kind  of  a 
close  receptacle  for  it,  and  do  not  provide  too  large  a  quantity,  as  it  sometimes 
spoils  by  keeping  too  long.  It  should  be  watched  to  see  that  it  is  liept  free  from 
mites,  as  these  are  m.ore  destructive  tlian  mice. 

Always  sift  all  flour  before  using  it.  For  convenience,  a  quantity  may  be 
sifted  apart  in  a  closely  covered  pail,  so  as  to  be  ready  in  cases  of  emergency. 

In  buj^ing  Graham  flour,  never  get  but  small  quantities  at  a  time.  The 
coarser  kinds  make  a  good  quality  of  Graham  bread,  used  for  dyspeptics; 
screened  a  little  finer,  it  is  called  cannell  flour  or  middlings,  and  is  nice  for  gems 
and  batter-cakes.  Brown  bread  is  not  made  stiff  enough  to  knead,  but  just  a 
stiff  batter  that  can  be  poured  into  the  pans. 

In  mixing  bread,  use  a  short-handled  wooden  spoon  as  long  as  you  can;  use 
enough  fiour  always  to  keep  the  loaf  from  sticking  to  the  board  or  your  hands, 
but  care  must  be  taken  not  to  get  in  too  much  flour.  Expert  handling  can  only 
come  by  experience,  and  you  must  not  be  discouraged  if  at  first  it  sticks  to 
everything  it  touches.  Try  to  get  your  loaves  into  the  pans  for  the  last  rising 
rather  soft.  If  you  can  get  pans  with  high  sides  you  will  find  them  nicer,  as 
they  keep  the  bread  from  spreading  apart  or  running  over  the  sides. 

To  insure  good  baking-powder  biscuit,  care  must  be  taken  to  keep  the  dough 
very  soft;  so  soft,  in  fact,  that  you  are  only  just  able  to  get  them  up  and  into 
the  pan.  They  must  be  baked  quickly  in  a  very  hot  oven.  Never  roll  your 
dough  thinner  than  an  inch. 

When  bread  or  biscuit  becomes  stale,  you  can  freshen  it  by  pouring  a  little 
hot  water  over  the  loaf,  and  draining  it  off  quickly;  then  set  in  the  oven  to  heat 
through,  and  it  will  be  as  good  as  new. 

When  crackers  become  soft  from  long  standing,  put  them  into  a  pan,  and 
bake  them  over.    They  will  be  as  crisp  as  fresh  ones. 

A  PRACTICAL  LESSON  IN  BREAD-MAKING. 

One  of  the  most  interesting  and  instructive  lectures  before  the  Women's 
Economic  Congress  during  the  congresses  of  women  was  one  on  bread-making, 
by  Mrs.  Emma  P.  Ewing,  of  the  Chautauqua  School  of  Domestic  Science. 

She  came  before  an  audience  of  some  fifteen  hundred  people,  followed  by  q. 
boy  who  bore  a  good-sized  basket  and  a  brand-new  bread  or  molding  board. 
The  board  was  placed  on  a  small  table,  and  opt  of  the  basket  Mrs,  Ewing  pro- 


Bread,  jjiscuit,  etc*.  .  15^ 

clucod  a  two  or  tliive  (inart  bowl  heaped  with  sifted  llour.  Slie  iiad  I)esi(h's  llws 
another  bowl,  a  half  piut  measure  and  a  small  pnel^aye,  whicli  she  said  Mas  a 
cake  of  compressed  yeast.  In  a  glass  she  eriunbled  U])  the  yeast  eake,  and  added 
about  four  tablespooufuls  of  water.  Then  wlille  slie  sli'rred  this  very  thor- 
oughly until  it  loolced  like  thin  milk,  she  told  us  that  this  yeast  was  prepared 
by  .a  chemically  scientific  process,  and  that  the  small  cake  slie  used  could  be 
absolutely  depended  upon  to  raise  all  the  dough  tliar  could  be  mixed  with  one 
pint  of  water,  in  exactly  three  hours.  She  now  measured  two  half  pints  of 
water  into  the  bowl,  and  said  that  if  she  was  in  her  own  kitcljen,  one  of  tlie  lialf 
pints  should  be  milk,  and  that  the  whole  sliould  be  milk-warm.  Into  tliis  water 
Mrs.  Ewing  stirred  the  dissolved  yeast,  and  then  added  one  level  teaspoonful  of 
salt.  She  now  began  to  stir  in  the  sifted  flour  witli  a  spoon-shaped  wooden 
fork,  whicli  process  she  continued  until  tlie  dough  was  of  sncli  consistency  that 
it  no  longer  stuck  to  the  bowl.  This,  she  said,  was  tlie  rule  for  the  amount  of 
flour  to  be  used,  and  it  varied  with  the  different  brands  of  flour.  Her  selection 
always  was  the  best  patent  process  flour  she  could  obtain.  JNlrs.  Ewing  now 
sprinkled  a  little  flour  on  her  molding-board,  and  rolled  the  dough  upon  it.  Then 
she  began  kneading  it,  using  for  tliis  purpose  the  heavy  part  of  the  palm  of  her 
hand,  so  that  the  dough  was  thoroughly  Avoided  and  stretched.  She  showed 
l)y  holding  up  a  portion  of  the  dough  and  stretching  it  out  into  a  tliin  cake  how 
glutinous  it  was,  and  explained  that  this  was  tlie  quality  which  it  was  most 
necessary  to  preserve  in  order  to  retain  the  most  nutritious  portion  of  the  flour. 
She  explained  that  too  long  fermentation,  or  what  is  generally  known  as 
"rising,"  destroyed  this  glutinous  qualitj.  Having  Avorked  her  dough  into  a 
beautiful  round  bunch,  kneading  it  for  five  ininutes,  slie  proceeded  to  slightly 
grease  her  bowl,  and  then  placed  the  dough  in  it.  This  dough,  she  said,  should 
be  phiced  Avhere  the  temperature  Avas  seA'outy-five  degrees,  Avhen  it  would  rise 
to  just  the  right  lightness — scientilically  determined— in  just  three  hours. 

Here  some  one  asked  her  Iioav  about  people  who  had  no  th(>rmometers.  Mrs. 
Ewing  said  everybody  should  have  one,  but  as  seventy  degrees  was  mild 
summer  heat,  that  seventy-five  degrees  meant  a  temperature  a  little  warmer  than 
tliis,  Avhich  neai'ly  any  one  could  determine.  She  especially  cautioned  about  keep- 
ing the  dough  too  AA'arm.  Another  person  asked  her  the  question.  "If  one  were 
going  to  make  six  or  ten  loaves,  Avould  the  same  ]U"oportional  amount  of  yeast 
be  needed?"  Mrs.  EAving  replied  A'ory  emphatically,  "Yes,"  and  said  that  this 
Avas  really  the  rock  on  AA'hicli  bread-makers  Avere  lost.  She  said  that  less  yeast 
in  a  larger  baking  aa'ouUI  raise  tlie  dough,  but  not  in  three  hours,  and  the  longer 
fermentation  required  caused  it  to  turn  sour.  She  especially  deprecated  the 
habit  of  setting  bread  to  rise  OA^er  night,  and  laid  gieat  stress  on  the  fact  that 
one  cake  of  yeast  would  raise  this  amount  of  dough  to  the  right  fermenta- 
tion in  just  three  hours.  Mrs.  EAA'ing  noAV  produced  from  her  basket  another 
bowl,  Avhich,  as  all  the  audience  could  see,  was  filled  Avith  a  beautifully  light 
dough.  Mrs.  P^Aving  turned  this  lightly  out  on  the  bread-board,  on  which  she  had 
sprinkled  flour,  and  began  to  knead  it.  She  s'aid  she  had  set  this  dough  just 
tliree  hours  before  in  the  house  of  a  friend,  and  here  it  Avas  ready  for  the  second 
kneading.  Into  this  dough  Mrs.  Ewing  kneaded  flour  until  it  would  no  longer 
stick  to  the  bread-board,  which  she  again  said  was  the  test  of  the  required 
amount  of  flour.  She  noAV  cut  the  dough  into  two  parts,  kneaded  each  part  into 
a  long,  slender  loaf,  Avhich  she  placed  in  pans  about  ten  by  four  inches  in  size. 


160  .  BKEAP,    lUSCriT,    ETC. 


WHITE  BREAD. 

Three  pints  of  .aood  bvo.ul-niniv:  stand  in  a  warm  place  over  nisilit.  where  it 
will  sret  dry  and  lijiht.  In  tl\o  mornins;.  make  a  sponge  of  one  lialf  enpfnl  of  tlonr, 
one  fourth  of  a  c-upfiil  of  milk,  in  wliich  dissolve  tl.e  yeast;  let  tliis  rise  until 
ready  to  fall,  then  add  one  and  one  half  pints  of  new  Avarm  milk  (.or  scalded 
skimmed  milk  is  used"),  one  even  tablespoonful  of  granulated  sugar,  one  even 
tablespoonful  of  fresh  lard  or  butter,  one  even  tea  spoonful  of  salt:  knead  ten 
minutes;  lot  k  rise  until  one  half  as  largo  again  as  AAhen  mixed,  taking  care 
always  that  it  does  not  get  hot  in  rising:  kuead  five  minutes  more  in  the  bowl; 
let  it  rise  until  twice  as  large,  then  form  into  one  large  double  loaf  or  two  small 
ones.  No  extra  flour  should  be  used  wlien  shaping  the  loaves.  Let  it  rise  about 
thirty  minutes  in  a  warm  place,  then  set  it  in  the  ice-box  or  in  a  cool  place  live 
minutes  to  chill  the  surface.  Bake  one  hour  if  large,  three  quarters  of  an  hour  if 
small:  bake  rather  slowly,  not  hot  enough  to  scorch  it.  If  the  sponge  is  made  at 
seven  o'clock,  the  bread  should  be  ready  for  the  o^en  by  eleven  o'clock.  There 
is  no  danger  of  having  sour  bread  with  this  recipe.  One  secret  in  having  delie- 
iously  light  bread  is  drying  the  flour  before  using. 

Miss  Emily  E.  Squire,  Author  of  "  Woronoeo  Women's  Wisdom,"  Wostfield.  Mass. 

rOTATO  BIIEAD. 

Pare  and  boil  six  good-sized  potatoes,  drain  off  the  water,  mash  fine,  and 
pour  over  them  about  three  pints  of  lukewarm  water,  and  run  through  a 
colander:  add  flour  until  this  is  a  thin  batter,  tlien  put  into  it  a  coffee-cupful  of 
yeast  from  the  jug;  let  stand  until  it  rises.  IheTi  stir  in  the  floiu-.  as  much  as  you 
can  with  a  spoon,  and  let  rise  again;  work  in  enough  more  flour  to  knead  rather 
stift',  and  let  rise  the  third  time:  when  light  this  time,  vi  ork  out  into  loaves,  and 
let  rise.    All  the  floiu"  must  be  sifted. 

BUTTERMILK  BREAD. 

One  pint  of  buttermilk,  one  and  one  half  teaspoonfuls  of  soda,  one  half  cupful 
of  lard,  flour  enough  to  make  a  mediuro  stiff  dough,  and  a  little  salt:  bake 
quickly. 

Sallie  Cochran.  Ennell's  Spriugs,  Indiana. 

ORAHAM  BREAI>. 

Two  thirds  of  a  cupful  of  molasses,  otie  pint  of  sweet  milk,  one  teaspoonful  of 
soda,  a  pinch  of  salt,  otie  quart  of  (iraham  flour. 
Miss  E.  Crandell,  lloosii-k,  New  York. 


BREAD,   BISCUIT,    ETC.  ICl 

SAi/i"-i:isi.\<;  i;ui:ai). 

Pour  lialf  ;i  pint  of  hoiliiif^  wattT  on  two  talilcspoonfuls  of  c-orn-nicnl  and  a 
liiiicli  of  salt;  let  it  stand  ten  minutes,  tlicn  slir  in  two  tal)l('si)oonruls  ol'  lioni-, 
and  set  it  in  a  warm  place  to  rise  over  ni>;lit.  In  tlie  mornin;;',  add  liall'  a  pint 
of  ficsli  sweet  millc  or  warm  water,  and  11(mu"  encHii;!!  to  mal<e  tlie  yeast  smootli, 
tlien  i)nt  it  into  a  Ivcttle  of  watei'  hot  enou};;h  to  bear  yoin-  liand  in,  and  l»e  care- 
Cnl  to  keep  it  tin'  same  lemix-rature;  wlieii  this  rises,  pour  it  in  the  l)atter  ma(h' 
of  two  (juarfs  of  scalded  morning's  niillv,  when  cooled,  and  floui'  enons;ii  to  malve 
a  batter.  lie  careful  not  to  scald  the  Hour  l)y  mixing;  wlien  the  millc  is  too  wai'ui. 
r.eat  this  well,  and  set  it  to  rise  anain  in  a  warm  ])lace,  wliicli  it  will  do  in 
twenty-five  or  thirty  ndnutes  if  managed  rif^ht.  Be  careful  that  tlie  place  is  not 
too  hot.  Now  stir  in  flour  to  Uiakc;  a  stiff  battel"  that  cannot  be  stirred  with  a 
s]>oon,  tlien  ])onr  it  out  on  a  moldinf^-board  wliicli  lias  lieen  well  covei'ed  with 
sifted  Hour,  and  add  a  ]>iece  of  lard  the  size  of  a  larL:.(>  api)le,  and  mix  it  well  with 
llie  douf;h;  woi'k  it  well,  and  after  dividiiit;'  it  up  into  small  loaves,  put  into 
well-.i-reased  pans,  and  set  in  a  warm  place  to  rise  ajiain;  wlien  risen  suf- 
liciently,  bake  as  quickly  as  possible,  and  the  bread  will  be  winter  and  nicer; 
when  done,  have  a  small  brush  or  clolh  to  di])  into  buttei'  to  Avash  over  the  top 
crust;  it  prevents  it  from  hardening.  This  bread  is  eonsi<lered  the  best  kind  for 
invalids. 

Mrs.  J. '!'.,  Dublin  Depot,  Virginia. 

MILK-SPOX( ; K  BREAD. 

Put  a  pint  of  boiling  water  into  a  ])itcher,  with  a  teasjioonful  of  sugar,  one 
fourth  of  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  the  same  of  siMla;  let  it  stand  until  you  can 
l>ear  your  finger  in  it;  then  add  flour  to  make  a  thick  l-atter;  beat  it  hard  for  tAvo 
nnnutes.  Now  place  the  pitcher  in  a  kettle  of  hot  water— not  hot  enough  to  scald 
tlie  mixture;  keep  the  wat(>r  at  the  same  tempei-ature  until  the  emptyings  are 
light.  If  set  early  in  the  morning,  and  watched  carefully,  they  will  be  I'eady  at 
eleven  o'clock  to  make  a  sponge  the  same  as  for  other  bread,  with 'a  (piart  of 
very  warm  milk.  Let  this  sponge  get  very  light,  then  make  into  loaves,  and  set 
to  rise  again,  taking  care  they  do  not  get  too  light  this  time  before  putting  in 
the  oven,  or  the  bread  will  be  dry  and  tasteless. 

WIIEY  BPtEAD. 

Set  a  panful  of  sour  milk  on  the  stove,  and  cook  until  the  whey  rises  well; 
pour  this  off,  and  use  a  quart  of  it  for  your  Invad.  Scald  first  a  cuitful  of  sifted 
flour  with  the  hot  wdiey,  beat  it  smooth,  and  allow  it  to  cool:  tlien  put  in  one 
pint  more  of  flour,  one  tablespoonful  of  salt  and  one  tablespcnmful  of  white 
sugar;  turn  in  enough  cool  whey  to  cool  it,  and  stir  it  to  a  thick  batter;  add  a 
cupful  of  yeast,  and  set  to  rise;  fhen  make  out  as  other  bread. 

HOMINY  BREAD. 

Two  cupfuls  of  boiled  grits;  while  hot,  mix  with  one  tablespoonful  of  lard  or 
butter,  add  one  pint  of  sweet  milk,  one  cuiiful  of  corn-meal,  four  well-beaten 
eggs,  then  salt.  The  batter  should  be  as  thin  as  boiled  custard;  if  it  is  not,  thin 
it.    Bake  with  the  heat  at  the  bottom.    It  makes  an  elegant  bread. 

Mrs.  A.  K.  Kirtland,  Antliorof  "Mrs.  Kirtlfirurs  Cook  P>ool<,"  Moiitsiomcry,  Alaljama. 


162  feKEAD,    BISCtiT,    ETC. 


SOFT-EGG   BREAD. 

Two  beaten  eggs,  one  level  ten  spoonful  of  soda,  two  cupfuls  of  sour  milk,  one 
cupful  of  sweet  milk,  four  tablespoonfuls  of  meal,  two  teaspooufuls  of  lard  and 
salt.    Bake  in  a  pan,  dip  with  a  spoon. 

Mrs.  A.  E.  Kirtlaiid,  Author  of  "  Mrs.  Kirtland's.Cook  Book,"  Montgomery,  Alabama. 

BJtOWN  BREAD. 

Two  pints  of  corn-meal,  one  cui'ful  of  molasses,  one  pint  of  rye  flour,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  saleratus,  sour  milk  enough  to  make  a  batter  not  too  thick.  Bake 
three  or  four  hours. 

Mrs.  Ophelia  M.  Smith,  Hadley,  Massachusetts. 

RYE  BREAD. 

Make  a  sponge  of  one  quart  of  warm  Avater,  one  teacupful  of  wet  yeast, 
thickened  with  enough  rye  flour  to  make  a  batter,  and  put  it  in  a  warm  place  to 
rise  over  night;  in  the  morning,  scald  a  pint  of  corn-meal;  when  cool, add  it  to  the 
sponge;  stir  in  enough  rye  flour  to  make  the  dougli  thick  enough  to  knead, 
knead  but  little,  let  it  rise,  mold  into  loaves,  pu.t  them  into  deep  pie-tins,  and  let 
them  rise  and  bake. 

BOSTON  BROWN  BREAD. 

Two  cupfuls  of  corn-meal,  one  cupful  of  rye-meal,  three  cupfuls  of  sour  milk, 
one  half  cupful  of  molasses,  one  tablespoonful  of  soda,  a  pinch  of  salt;  steam 
four  hours,  and  bake  twenty  minutes. 
Mrs.  S.  H.,  Marietta,  Ohio. 

BREAD  FOR  DYSPEPTICS. 

Mix  Graham  flour,  water  and  a  little  salt  until  stifl;  enough  to  handle;  then 
make  it  into  rolls  about  the  size  of  a  bologna  sausage,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven. 
Oatmeal  may  be  used  in  the  same  way  with  a  little  flour,  and  let  the  mixture 
stand  a  few  hours  before  baking. 
M.  E.  D. 

LIGHT  BISCUIT. 

One  pint  of  warmed  sweet  milk,  one  half  pint  of  melted  lard,  one  teacupful 
of  white  sugar,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  half  pint 
of  yeast.  Stir  in  enough  flour  to  make  a  rather  stifl!  batter.  Mix  this  up  early 
in  the  morning,  and  let  it  rise  until  ten  or  half-past  ten,  and  add  enough  more 
flour  to  knead  smooth;  then  let  it  stand  to  rise  until  late  in  the  afternoon,  and 
mold  into  small  tea-biscuits,  and  bake  in  time  for  supper;  serve  hot.  This 
quantity  makes  about  fifty  biscuits  one  and  one  half  inches  in  diameter. 
Mrs.  A.  Winger,  Springfield,  Ohio. 

BISCUIT  WITHOUT  SHORTENING. 

One  quart  of  flour,  a  pinch  of  salt,  two  and  one  half  heaping  teaspooufuls  of 
baking-powder,  enough  milk  or  milk  and  water  to  make  a  soft  dough;  roll  out, 
and  cut  as  other  biscuits.    Bake  in  a  quick  oven. 


BREAD,    BISCUIT,    ETC.  163 

SODA-BISCUIT. 

One  pint  of  sour  creaiu,  one  tea.spoonful  of  soda,  flour  to  mix  as  soft  as 
possible,  and  cut  rather  tliin. 

Miss  A.  M.  Taft,  Fountain,  Dulcota. 

PARKER  HOUSE  ROLLS. 

Talie  two  tablespoonfuls  of  wliite  suj>ar,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  tliree  fourtlis 
of  a  teaeupful  of  good  yeast,  one  cupful  of  shortening-,  one  (juart  of  warm  milk, 
and  four  quarts  of  flour  before  sifting;  put  on  the  milk  to  scald,  add  the  butter 
while  hot;  then  let  this  cool,  and  mix  in  enough  flour  to  make  a  smooth  batter; 
then  add  the  sugar,  salt  and  yeast,  and  set  it  to  rise;  when  light,  add  the  rest  of 
the  flour,  and  knead  in  a  loaf,  let  rise  again,  then  cut  out,  and  put  into  a  greased 
pan,  and  let  them  rise  again;  when  light,  bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven.  If 
wanted  for  breakfast,  mix  them  at  night,  but  if  foi  tea,  mix  them  in  the  morning. 
Mrs.  Ophelia  M.  Smitli,  Hadley,  Massachusetts. 

TEA-ROLLS. 

Scald  one  pint  of  milk,  add  one  cablespoonful  of  sugar,  one  half  cupful  of 
yeast,  and  flour  to  make  a  batter;  let  this  rise  over  night.  In  the  morning,  add 
one  half  cupful  of  butter,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  well-beaten  whites  of  two 
eggs;  mix  this  stiff,  knead  it  well,  and  let  it  rise;  then  knead  again,  and  roll  it 
three  fourths  of  an  inch  thick;  cut  with  a  biscuit-cutter,  and  butter  one  half, 
and  roll  the  other  half  over  it;  let  it  rise  until  very  light,  then  bake. 
A.  M.  S.,  Windsor,  New  Yorlt. 

SPICED   ROLLS   FOR   LUNCHEONS. 

Take  a  piece  from  your  bread-dough,  and  roll  it  out  half  an  inch  thick,  brush 
the  top  with  melted  butter,  and  cover  thick  with  cinnamon  and  fine  white  sugar; 
commence  at  one  side,  and  roll  up  as  jelly-cake;  then  cut  it  an  inch  thick,  and 
lay  in  a  pan  as  biscuit,  close  together,  and  let  them  rise,  and  bake  twenty 
minutes. 

RUSKS. 

Two  eggs,  two  and  one  half  cupfuls  of  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  of  lard,  one 
tablespoonful  of  butter,  one  quart  of  sweet  milk,  one  half  nutmeg,  one  cupful  of 
yeast,  flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff  batter;  set  to  rise;  Avhen  light,  knead  it 
moderately  stiff,  and  let  it  rise  again;  after  it  is  light,  mold  it  into  rolls,  put 
them  into  a  baking-pan,  and  let  them  stand  again  until  light,  then  bake  half  an 
hour. 

A.  M.  H.,  Henry  Clay,  Delaware. 

DRIED  RUSKS. 

1  pint  of  warm  milk,  iA  cupful  of  butter, 

2  eggs,  1/.  cupful  of  yeast, 
1  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Set  a  sponge  with  these  Ingredients,  leaving  out  the  eggs,  and  stirring  in 
enough  flour  until  you  have  a  thick  batter.  Early  next  morning  add  the  eggs, 
well  beaten,  and  flour  enough  to  roll  out;  let  this  rise  in  the  bread-bowl  two 
hours;  roll  out  into  a  sheet  nearly  an  inch  thick,  cut  into  round  cakes,  and 


164 


BREAD,    BISCUIT,    ETC. 


arrange  iu  your  baldug-pau  two  layers,  one  upon  the  other,  carefully;  let  these 
stand  for  another  half  hour,  and  bake;  Avhen  they  are  done,  lift  them  apart, 
leaving-  one  side  soft;  pile  loosely  iu  a  pan,  and  when  the  fire  is  decliniug  for 
the  night,  set  them  in  the  oven  and  leave  them  until  morning;  then  take  them 
out,  and  put  into  a  clean  muslin  bag,  and  hang  up  to  dry  in  the  kitchen.  Use 
the  third  day.  Put  as  many  as  you  need  into  a  deep  dish,  and  pour  over  them 
iced  milk,  or  water  if  you  cannot  procure  the  milk;  lake  out  when  soaked  soft, 
drain  them,  and  eat  ^vith  butter.  Tliey  will  keep  for  weeks  and  grow  bettor, 
every  day. 

MUFFINS. 

One  egg.  one  half  cupful  of  butter  and  lard,  mixed,  melted  and  poured  into 
one  pint  of  sweet  milk,  three  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder.     Sift  the  baking- 
powder  with  enough  flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter;  Ijeat  it  hard,  and  bake  in  gem- 
pans.    Thesi?  are  excellent  made  of  Giaha)n  flour. 
Mrs.  R.  W.  Thorne,  Tiblow,  Kansas. 

BUTTERMILK  MUFFINS. 

2  eggs,  1  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
1  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  1  quart  of  buttermilk, 

1  tablespoonful  of  hot  AAater,  Flour  enough  to  make  a  good  baiter. 

Beat  the  eggs  well,  add  them  to  the  buttermilk,  then  the  flour,  salt  and  soda; 
pour  into  the  mutfin-pans,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 
Mrs.  Bettie  Ferguson,  Stockton,  Alabama. 

CREAM  MUFFINS. 

1  pint  of  sweet  cream,  1  talilespoonful  of  butter, 

3  eggs— the  yolks  well  beaten,  Whites  of  eggs,  beaten  to  a  froth, 
^2  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff  batter. 

Fill  the  hot,  well-greased  muffin-rings  lialf  full  with  the  batter,  and  bake 
quickly. 

Mrs.  D.  D.  H.,  Marion,  Virginia. 

PARK  HOUSE  GRAHAM  MUFFINS. 

4  eggs,  A  pinch  of  salt. 

1  teacupful  of  bro^\n  sugar,  i/o  tencupful  of  good  yeast, 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter  or  lard,     2  (juarts  of  Graham  flour. 
IMilk  enough  to  make  a  stifl'  batter;  mix,  and  let  it  rise  over  night.     In  the 

morning,  fill  the  muflin-rings  hnlf  full,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 
Mrs.  Julia  F.  Fislier,  Circlevllle,  Indiana. 

WHOLE-WHEAT  FLOUR  MUFFINS. 

Dissolve  half  a  cake  of  compressed  yeast  in  half  a  pint  of  milk,  and  add  suf- 
ficient quantity  of  rich  milk  to  make  a  pint;  stir  into  it  three  eupfuls  of  whole- 
wheat flour,  and  set  in  a  warm  place  to  rise;  when  li,ght,  stir  in  two  well-beaten 
eggs,  and  tiu-n  into  gem-irons,  half  filling  them;  let  them  rise  until  vei"y  light, 
and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 


JtliKAI),    Blt^CUlT,    ETC.  165 

ST.  CHAULP:S  COllN  MUFFINS. 

2  toacupfuls  of  white  eoru-inoal,  2  eggs, 

1  cupful  of  boiling  water,  }/■>  teaspoonful  of  salt, 

1  cupful  of  milk,  1  teaspoonful  of  baking-powder, 

1  heaping  tablespoonful  of  butt(>r. 
Pour  the  boiling  water  over  tlie  meal,  and  stir,  that  all  may  l)e  wet  and 
scalded;  add  the  melted  butter,  salt  and  millv,  then  the  beaten  eggs.  Put  the 
iron  gem-pans  into  the  oven  to  heat,  putting  into  each  mold  a  small  piece  of 
butter  or  lard;  add  the  baking  powder  to  the  batter,  and  beat  up  thorougldy; 
then  pour  into  the  hot  mold.  Balce  carefidly  about  twenty  or  twenty-five  min- 
utes.   This  batter,  when  ready,  will  be  very  thin. 

WIIOLE-WIIEAT  (JEMS. 

One  cupful  of  sour  niillv,  one  fourth  of  a  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  one  half  tea- 
spoonful of  soda,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  one  egg,  one  and  tliree  fourths 
cupfuls  of  whole-wheat  tiour.     Bake  In  hot  gem-pans  well  greased  witli  butter. 

GRAH.^M  GEMS. 

Three  eggs,  three  tablesiioonfuls  of  sugar,  one  pint  of  sweet  "milk,  ({raliam 
flour  enougli  to  tliiclven  it.     Drop  into  the  gem-pans  and  cook  ipiickly.     A  little 
soda  or  baking-powder  may  be  added  if  desired. 
S.  E.  R.,  Cliesterfleld,  Virginia. 

"POOIt  MAN'S"  CORN  GEMS. 

1  i)int  of  corn-meal,  1  teaspoonful  of  salt, 

1  pint  of  flour,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder. 

1-3  of  a  pint  each  of  milk  and  water. 
Sift  the  corn-meal,  tlour,  salt  and  powder  togetlier;  add  the  milk  and  water, 

mix  into  a  firm  batter;  two  thirds  fill  well-greased,  cold  gem-pans.     Bake  in  a 

wt>ll-lieafed  oven  fifteen  minutes. 

CORN-MEAL  GEMS. 

Pour  boiling  water  over  one  pint  of  meal  to  make  a  stiff  dough;  when  cool, 
add  one  egg,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  sweet  milk  I'nough  to  drop  from  tlie  spoon. 
Fry  in  as  little  lard  as  possible,  and  when  nicely  browned,  take  them  up, 
and  serve. 

Mrs.  W.  B.  R.,  Jackson,  Michigan. 

SODA-CRACKERS. 

One  quart  of  flour,  one  tablesi)oonful  of  butler,  one  half  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
Make  a  stiff  paste  with  buttermilk,  beat  until  very  light;  roll  thin,  cut  into 
squares,  stick  with  a  fork,  and  bake  quickly. 

FRENCH  CRACKERS. 

One  and  one  half  pounds  of  floui*,  one  half  pound  of  sugar,  one  fourth  of  a 
pound  of  butter,  whites  of  five  eggs.  Mix  stiff,  roll  thin,  and  prick  with  a  fork. 
Bake  in  a  very  liot  oven. 


166  ^  BREAD,   BISCUIT,    ETC. 

CRACKERS. 

The  white  of  one  egg,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one  teacupful  of  sweet 
milk,  one  half  teaspoonful  of  soda,  one  teaspoonfiil  of  cream  of  tartar.    Mix  very 
stiff,  beat  well,  roll  thin,  and  bake. 
Julia  C.  Melton,  Opelika,  Alabama. 

EGG  CRACKNELS  (CREAM  CRACKERS). 

1  quart  of  flour,  1  teaspoonful  of  baking-powder, 

1  large  pinch  of  salt,  4  tablespoonfuls  of  butter, 

5  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  4  eggs. 

Sift  together  flour,  sugar,  salt  and  powder;  rub  in  the  butter,  cold,  add  the 
eggs,  beaten,  and  mix  into  a  flrm,  smooth  dough.  Flour  the  board,  turn  out  the 
dough,  and  give  it  a  few  minutes'  rapid  kneading;  cover  Avith  a  damp  towel 
flfteen  minutes,  then  roll  it  out  to  the  thickness  of  one  eighth  of  an  inch,  cut  out 
with  a  biscuit-cutter;  when  all  are  cut  out,  have  a  large  potful  of  boiling  and  a 
large  tin  pan  of  cold  water.  Drop  them,  a  few  at  a  lime,  into  the  boiling  water; 
when  they  appear  at  the  surface  and  curl  at  the  edges,  take  them  up  with  a 
skimmer,  and  drop  them  into  the  cold  Avater:  when  all  are  thus  served,  lay  them 
on  greased  baking-tins,  and  bake  in  a  fairly  hot  oven  for  fifteen  minutes. 

WATER-CRACKERS. 

1  pound  of  flour,  1  teaspoonful  of  salt, 

1  tablespoonful  of  lard.  Mi  teaspoonful  of  soda. 

Mix  with  water,  beat  well,  roll  thin,  stick  with  a  fork,  and  bake  in  a  hot 
oven. 

CORN-BREAD. 

2  heaping  cupfuls  of  corn-meal,  1  large  tablespoonful  of  butter,  melted, 
1  heaping  cupful  of  flour,  but  not  hot, 

3  eggs,  beaten  separately,  1  large  tablespoonful  of  white  sugar, 
21/0  cupfuls  of  milk,  1  teaspoonful  of  baking-powder, 

1  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
Bake  steadily,  but  not  too  fast,  in  a  well-buttered  mold;  turn  out  upon  a 
plate  when  done,  and  eat  at  once,  cutting  it  into  slices  as  you  would  cake.    In 
cutting  corn-bread,  do  not  forget  to  hold  the  knife  perpendicularly,  and  cut 
toward  you. 

Marion  Harland. 

NEW  ORLEANS  CORN-BREAD. 

11/0  pints  of  corn-meal,  2  heaping  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder, 

1/2  pint  of  flour,  1  tablespoonful  of  lard, 

1  tablespoonful  of  sugar,         li/4  pints  of  milk, 

1  teaspoonful  of  salt,  2  eggs. 

Sift  together  corn-meal,  flour,  sugaj-,  salt  and  powder;  rub  in  the  lard,  cold, 
add  the  egss,  beaten,  and  the  milk;  mix  into  a  moderately  stiff  batter;  pour 
from  bowl  into  a  shallow  cake-pan.  Bake  in  9,  rather  hot  oyen  for  thirty 
ipinutes, 


BREAD,    BISCUIT,    ETC.  1(57 

DELICATE  CORN-BREAD. 

1  pint  of  sour  or  sweet  milk,  1  tablespoonful  of  lard, 

1  teaspooaful  of  soda  or  balviug-po^A  dcM\  A  piucli  of  salt. 

Stir  in  white  meal  enough  to  malce  a  batter  the  consistency  of  sponge-cake. 
Bake  half  an  hour  or  twenty  minutes  by  a  quick  fire. 
Mrs.  W.  B.  R.,  Jackson,  Michigan. 

RAISED  GRIDDLE-CAKES. 

1  cupful  of  wliite  corn-meal,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  yeast, 

2  cupfuls  of  flour,  1  tablespoonful  of  brown  sugar, 
2  cupfuls  of  milk,                                  2  eggs, 

1  pint  of  boiling  water,  1  teaspoonful  of  salt, 

1/4  teaspoonful  of  baking-powder. 
Scald  the  meal  at  night  with  boiling  water,  beat  well;  while  warm,  stir  in  the 
flour,  sugai',  milk  and  yeast;  let  it  rise  all  night.    In  the  morning,  add  the  eggs, 
baking-powder  and  salt,  and  if  too  thin,  add  corn-meal  to  make  the  batter  the 
right  consistency.     Leave  a  cupful  for  the  next  morning's  rising. 
Mrs.  Albert. 

CORN-MEAL   GRIDDLE-CAKES. 

1  pint  of  corn-meal,  1  salt-spoonfid  of  salt, 

1  heaping  teaspoonful  of  butter,  1  teaspoonful  of  sugar. 
Pour  boiling  water  slowly  upon  the  mixture,  stirring  until  all  is  moistened, 
and  leave  it  for  thirty  minutes;  then  break  into  the  mixture  three  unbeaten  eggs, 
which  must  l)e  well  beaten  into  the  dough;  add  five  teaspoonfuls  of  cold  milk, 
one  spoonful  at  a  time,  until  it  is  all  smooth,  and  then  bake  on  both  sides  a  nice 
brown.    Serve  hot,  one  grlddleful  at  a  time,  as  they  are  baked. 

SOUTHERN  HOE-CAKE. 

One  quart  of  good,  sweet  meal,  sifted,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  turn  on 
boiling  water,  stirring  all  the  time  to  make  a  stiff  batter.  Wet  the  hands  in  cold 
water,  and  form  the  meal  into  oval  cakes,  then  spread  on  a  board  (liard  wood), 
set  before  the  fire  to  bake;  when  baked  on  one  side,  turn  and  bake  the  other; 
when  done,  split  it  open,  l>ntter  well,  and  serve  very  hot.  The  lioe-cake,  for  most 
of  us,  must  be  baked  as  a  tliick  griddle-cake,  for  we  have  no  open  fires. 

SARATOGA  JOHNNY-CAKE. 

One  cupful  of  sour  milk,  one  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  one  egg,  two  tablespoon- 
fuls of  sugar,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  buttei',  one  half  teaspoonful  of  soda,  one 
and  one  half  cupfuls  of  corn-meal.    Bake  one  half  hour. 

SWEET  JOHNNY-CAKE. 

One  cupful  of  coarse  chopped  suet,  one  cupful  of  sour  milk,  one  cupful  of 
sugai',  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  a  pinch  of  salt,  corn-meal  enough  to  make  a  thin 
batter.    Bake  in  a  long  pan  for  half  an  hour. 
Mrs.  T.  K.  M.  B.,  Chelsea,  Vermont. 


168  BREAD,    BISOriT,    ElV, 

SOI    rilKKN    ASll-CAKi:. 

1  quart  of  senUletl  ooru-iuoal.  1  tablospoonfiil  of  iiu'ltod  lanl. 

1  toaspoonfnl  of  salt.  Cold  walov  to  mako  a  soft  (lonj;li. 

^loUl  with  llu'  hands  into  oblong-  cakos.  A  clean  sptn  is  swoiit  upon  tlu>  hot 
hoarth.  Iho  bread  put  down  and  ooveivd  with  hot  wood  ashos.  and  it  must  bo 
waslunl  and  wipod  (h-y  or  rarofnlly  brushed  before  it  is  eaten.  A  uiucli  neater 
way  is  tt>  lay  a  eabbai;e-leaf  above  aud  below  the  cake.  The  bread  is  thus 
steamed  before  it  is  baked,  aud  is  made  ready  for  eatin.ii'  hy  strii)pin,!i-  off  the 
leaves.  The  hoe-eake  was  a.  nuxture  of  eorn-uu>al.  water  aud  salt,  shaped  into 
eakes  by  the  hands,  and  baked  upon  a  board  before  the  tire,  or,  in  earlier  tiuu^s, 
upon  a  lioe.  I'vom  wliieli  it  was  named. 

BREAKFAST  COFFEE-CAKE. 

Take  a  piece  of  bread-doush.  and  add  one  h.alf  cupful  of  su,a;ar  aud  oue  table- 
spoonful  of  melted  butter,  then  roll  out  an  inch  thick,  aud  put  ou  a  greased  pi(>- 
pau.  brush  the  top  with  melted  butter,  and  cover  thickly  -with  ciuuaiuou  aud 
suji'ar:  let  it  rise,  and  bake  quickly.  Cut  into  long,  narrow  strips  to  serve.  K:\\ 
hot  or  cold.  It  is  nicely  made  Saturday  w  ith  other  baking,  to  use  Sunday  morn- 
ing for  breakfast. 

CORN-MEAL  SCONES. 

1  quart  of  coru-nieal.  2  teaspooufuls  of  baking-powder. 

1  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  1  large  teaspoonful  of  lard. 

'^{2  teaspoonful  of  salt.  2  eggs. 

Nearly  oue  pint  of  milk. 
Sift  together  tiour.  sugar,  salt  and  powder;  rub  iu  the  lard.  cold,  add  beaten 
eggs  and  milk:  mix  into  dough,  smooth  and  just  consistent  enough  to  handle. 
Flour  the  board,  turn  out  the  dough,  give  it  one  or  two  quick  kueadiugs  to  com- 
plete its  smoothness;  roll  it  out  with  a  rolling-pin  to  an  eighth  of  an  inch  in  thick- 
ness, cut  Avith  a  sharp  knife  into  squares  larger  than  soda-crai-kers.  fold  each  in 
half  to  form  three-cornered  pieces.  Bake  on  a  hot  griddle  eight  or  ten  minutes; 
brown  ou  both  sides. 

CORN-MEAL  FLAPJACKS. 

1  quart  of  boiling  milk    scald  1  tablespoonful  of  butter, 

2  cupfuls  of  corn-nu\il.  and  add  1  teaspoonful  of  sugar. 
Cover,  aud  set  away  over  uight.    In  the  morning,  add 

2  yolks  of  eggs.  1  teaspoonful  of  baking-powder,  which  should 

1  scant  cupful  of  tiour,  be  well  stirred  iu. 

1  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Just  before  baking  on  a  griddle,  add  the  beaten  whites  of  two  eggs,  mixed  in 
lightly. 

CORN-FONE. 

Two  quarts  of  sweet  milk,  eight  teacupfuls  of  corn-meal,  four  teacupfuls  of 
flour,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  oue  teacupful  of  uu:»lasses.  Mix.  aud  bake  three 
hoiirs  in  a  very  slow  oven. 

Mi'.<.  Robert  Beclvett,  Fair  Hiweii. 


I5KKAI),    I'.ISdlT,    KTC.  lOlj 

XN'AI'l'l.JOS. 

Tlircc  c.iins  (wliitcs  ;im(I  yolks  bciitfii  st-panitcly),  one  (■•il)lcsi)()r)iiriil  <>l'  l)ult<'i-, 
or  ;i  piece  I  lie  size  oC  a  lien's  i'Hii,  one  lialf  leasiioouful  of  soda,  or  a  teaspoonliil 
of  l»akiiin-i)<»\v<ler,  a  piueli  of  salt,  one  (luart  of  Hour.  Mix  wHli  sour  creaiii 
eiioninl)  to  make  a  hatter;  (-(Kjk  in  wallle-irons  over  the  coals  of  lire  until  of  a 
lifiht  hrown  color. 

Mrs.  Caniu  ]5ull,  Kmiiiciicc,  Kentucky. 

COnX-MEAL  AND  RICE  WAFFLES. 

Yj  cupful  of  corn-meal,  1  tablcspoonful  of  melted  hutter, 

i/j  cupful  of  flour,  1^  teaspoonful  of  haUinj^-powder, 

1  cupful  of  cold  boiled  rice,  ■  1  tcaspoonful  of  salt, 

2  well-hcaten  v^'^s,  1  pint  of  milk. 

Heat  the  mixture  well  hefon?  hakinff.  Can?  must  he  taken  to  have  the  irons 
well  grease<l,  as  with  ric(!  1h<'y  are  mon;  liahh?  to  stick. 

FLOT'K  A.ND  INDIAN  ^^  AFFILES. 

2V2  cupfuls  of  sifted  flour,  1   tcaspoonful  of  salt, 

Vj  cu])ful  of  sifted  Indian  meal,  1  hea))in;?  tahlespoonfiil  of  hulter, 

1  teas]ioonfiil  of  l>akin;,'-powder,  2  ef,'f;s,  beaten  very  lijxht, 

2  ciii)fuls  of  ricli  milk. 

.Mix  salt,  bakinfj:-pow(lei\  tiour  and  meal,  and  melt  the  butter;  make  a  hollow 
in  tlie  flour,  and  pour  in  buttei",  esj^s  and  milk,  stirrinj;  as  ycju  i)our,  that  all 
may  be  a  smooth  batter.  Heat  the  wafile-irons;  oil  them  well  with  fresh  lard, 
and  lill  thi'ee  (luarters  full.  Hake  over  a  clear  fire.  Turu  the  waflle-irou  often, 
that  the  walHes  may  not  burn. 

FHIED  MrSII. 

Tlie  mush  m.ide  as  in  the  precedinj?  recipe  may  be  poured  into  a  dish  to  the 
dei)lh  of  one  and  one  lialf  inches,  and  when  cold,  cut  into  slices  from  one  half 
to  three  fourths  of  an  in<'h  thick,  and  fried  brown  on  both  sides  in  drippinj;  lar<l 
or  butter.  This  is  a  yood  dish  for  breakfast.  The  best  Avay  to  make  mush  for 
fi-yiiijx  is  to  n,ix 

1  ])int  of  coi-n-nieal,  1  quart  of  cold  milk,  free  from  lumps, 

2  teasiioonfuls  of  .>-alt. 

TIh'U  stii-  the  mixture  very  gradually,  so  as  pot  to  reduce  the  water  I)elow  the 
boilin;x-point,  into  two  quarts  of  boilinj?  water;  let  it  boil  half  an  hour,  stirrinti 
coiitiiHially  to  i)revent  scorchinji',  as  it  will  more  readily  scorch  by  I'easoii  of  the 
milk,  pour  it  into  a  dish  to  the  depth  of  about  one  or  one  and  one  half  inches,  and 
when  fhorouiihly  cold,  slice,  and  fi\v  as  previously  directed. 

MUSH  CROQUETTES. 

One  quart  of  mush,  butter  the  size  of  an  English  walnut  stirred  in  while  the 
mush  is  hot,  tlien  set  aAvay  to  cool;  when  al)out  lukewarm,  stir  into  it  two  well- 
beaten  eggs  and  one  salt-spoonful  of  salt,  form  into  crocpiettes  about  three 
inches  long,  and  set  aside;  drop  them  into  smokimr-hoi,  deei>  lai'd;  when  a 
golden  brown,  lay  out  on  soft  paper  to  absorb  the  superfluous  grease.    Serve  hot. 


170  UREAD,    BISCUIT,    ETC. 

CORN-MEAL  MUSH. 

Oue  cupful  of  white  corn-iueal,  two  quarts  of  boilinj;  water,  with  one  table- 
spoonful  of  salt.  To  prevent  the  meal  from  lumpinu;.  mix  it  with  enough  cold 
Avater  or  milk  to  make  a  thin  batter,  tlien  gradually  pour  iu  the  batter,  so  as  not 
to  reduce  the  Avater  below  the  boiling-point,  stirring  it  with  a  wooden  spoon  or 
rounded  stick,  cover  closely,  and  let  it  cook  gently  (simmer)  from  one  to  two 
hours,  stirring  frequently  to  prevent  scorching.  It  should  be  of  a  consistency 
to  readily  heap  upon  a  spoon,  but  not  too  thick.  To  be  served  hot,  and  eateu 
with  milk,  butter  or  syrups. 

FRIED  MUSH  (HOTEL  STYLE). 

Cut  the  mush  into  pieces  one  inch  thick  and  three  inches  long,  dip  into  well- 
beaten  egg,  roll  in  sifted  cracker-crumbs,  and  fry  as  doughnuts  in  boiling  lard. 

CORN-MEAL  FRITTERS. 

3  cupfuls  of  milk,  %  teaspoonful  of  baking-powder, 
2  cupfuls  of  best  Indian  meal,  1  tablespoonful  of  sugar, 

1/2  cupful  of  flour,  1  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter, 

4  eggs,  beaten  separately.  1  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  very  light,  and  add  to  all  the  ingredients  (except 
the  flour  and  baking-powder,  which  should  be  added  last);  when  these  are  well 
mixed,  add  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  next  the  flour  mixture.  Drop  into  boiling 
lard  by  the  spoonful:  when  done,  lay  in  the  draiuiug-pan,  with  brown  paper  in 
the  bottom  of  the  pan  to  absorb  the  fat.  Eat  with  a  sauce  made  of  butter  and 
sugar,  seasoning  with  cinnamon  and  a  surprise  of  ginger. 

SAUCE  FOR  FRITTERS. 

Take  one  heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  two  heaping  tablespooufuls  of 
flour  rubbed  together,  one  and  one  half  cupfuls  of  boiling  water,  and  cook  five 
minutes;  add  one  and  one  half  cupfuls  of  brown  sugar,  one  salt-spoonful  of 
ginger,  one  even  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon  (or  if  preferred,  juice  of  oue  half 
lemon),  oue  half  nutmeg;  stir  until  the  sugar  is  all  melted.     Serve  hot. 

OATMEAL  CRISr. 

Scald  the  oatmeal  with  boiling  water,  stirring  with  a  spoon,  and  making  a 
pretty  stiff  dough;  knead  well  together,  dust  the  molding-board  Avith  a  little 
Graham  flour,  and  roll  thin,  cut  into  small  cakes,  and  bake  in  an  oven  fifteen  or 
twenty  minutes,  or  until  they  are  dry  and  hard,  but  only  slightly  browned. 

GERINIAN  PUFFS. 

Four  eggs,  one  pint  of  sweet  milk.  fiA'o  tablespooufuls  of  sifted  flour,  one  tea- 
spoonful of  salt.  Beat  the  eggs  separately  until  very  light;  then  add  a  little  flour 
and  a  little  milk  to  the  yolks;  taking  care  tliat  there  are  no  lumps:  add  the 
whites  last.  Bake,  and  serve  immediately  Avith  butter  sauce  or  very  rich  liquid 
sauce. 

Mrs.  Lizzie  Bailey,  Monticello,  Arkansas. 


lillKAi),  iitscuiT,  Efd  1*^1 

CORN-MEAL  I>UKI\S. 

1  qtlart  of  boilinpr  milk,  l^  tcaspoonful  of  soda,  dissolved  in 

'1  small  cupluls  of  white  corn-meal,  liot  water, 

V'2.  cupful  of  Hour,  1  teaspooiiful  of  creaui  of  tartar, 

1  small  cupful  of  powdered  sugar,  sifted  into  the  flour, 

1  salt-spoonful  of  salt,  i^  teaspoonful  of  mixed  ciuna- 

4  ORgs,  be.'ueu  separately,  mon  and  nutmeg. 

1  tahlespoonful  of  butter. 

Boil  the  mill<,  and  stir  in  the  coi-n-meal  and  flour;  boil  ten  or  fifteen  minutes, 

stirring  carefully  to  prevent  scorching,  then  add  the  butter;  remove  from  tlie 

fire,  and  beat  hard;  when  cold,  add  eggs,  sugar,  spices  and  soda,  and  beat  hard; 

bake  in  greased  cups  or  deep  gem-irons.    To  be  eaten  with  the  following  sauce: 
V-2  cupful  of  butter,  beaten  very  light,  1  cupful  of  cream, 

1  cupful  of  powdered  sugar. 
Set  the  dish  in  a  basin  of  hot  water,  and  stir  until  it  is  all  like  cream;  it  will 

take  but  a  short  time. 

PUFFETS  FOK  TE.V. 

Three  eggs,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  t\\  o  thh'ds  of  a  cupful  of  butter,  one  pint  of 
sweet  milk,  three  pints  of  flour,  three  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder.  Bake  in 
muffin-rings,  and  serve  warm. 

M.  A.  L.,  Ueiitral  City,  Nebraska. 

YEAST  WITHOUT  HOPS. 

12  large  potatoes,  boiled,  mashed  and  pressed  1  cupful  of  yeast, 

through  a  sieve;  add  1  cupful  of  sugar, 

3  quarts  of  lukewarm  water,  1  cupful  of  salt. 

Mix  thoroughly,  and  set  in  a  warm  place  four  or  five  lu)urs.     When  bubbles 
rise  it  is  ready  for  use.     One  teacupful  of  this  yeast  will  make  three  quart 
loaves,  and  no  sponge  is  necessary.    Keep  in  half-gallon  jars,  corked  tightly,  and 
in  a  cool  place.    It  will  be  good  for  weeks. 
Mrs.  C.  I.  Kemper,  Bethany,  West  Virginia. 

JUG  YEAST. 

Wash  and  peel  six  potatoes  the  size  of  a  large  egg,  cut  into  quartet's,  and  put 
on  the  stove  to  boil  in  a  quart  of  Avater;  as  it  boils  away,  fill  up  from  the  tea- 
kettle to  the  quantity;  when  your  potatoes  are  nearly  done,  put  a  handful  of 
hops  to  steep  in  a  pint  of  water;  take  out  the  potatoes  when  well  done,  put  into 
.a  crock,  and  mash  fine;  on  these  put  a  pint  of  flour,  and  scald  this  with  the  hot 
potato-water  and  hop-water;  beat  until  perfectly  sniooth  and  free  from  lumps; 
into  this  put  a  cupful  of  granulated  or  other  good  white  sugar  and  not  quite 
half  a  cupful  of  salt.  It  should  be  quite  tJiin;  if  not  thin  enough  at  this  stage, 
add  a  little  cold  water;  when  cool  enougli,  stir  into  this  a  pint  of  good  yeast, 
or  two  good-sized  yeast  cakes  dissolved  in  warm  water,  let  it  stand  twenty- 
four  hours,  stirring  very  frequently;  then  put  it  away  in  a  stone  jug,  corked 
tightly,  and  keep  in  a  cool  place,  but  not  where  it  will  freeze.  This  recipe  makes 
a  pint  over  a  gallon. 


1'72  BKEAD,  BISCUIT,  ETC. 

YEAST  CAKES. 

Boil  six  potatoes  iu  one  quart  of  stvoug  bop  tea.  ^yllen  soft,  mash  them  fine, 
and  to  This,  when  hiliewanv,  add 

1  eiipfnl  of  tlour,  1  tablespooofiil  o£  ginger, 

3-  cupful  of  sugar.  1  cupful  of  yeast. 

Set  this  sponge  iu  a  vA'arm  place  to  rise;  when  light,  stir  in  enough  corn-meal 
to  make  it  quite  thick:  let  it  rise  over  niglit;  then  mold  it.  and  cut  into  small 
cakes,  and  lay  them  out  to  dry  in  the  shade. 

E.  J.  Burroughs,  Bridgeport,  Connecticut. 

WET  YEAST. 

Pour  one  pint  of  boiling  water  over  one  large  handful  of  hops;  cook  this  for 
fifteen  minutes,  and  pour  it  OA'er  one  pint  of  flour;  when  cool,  add  one  teaspoon- 
ful  of  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  teaspoonful  of  ginger  and  one  half  cup- 
ful of  yeast.    After  standing  two  or  three  days  it  ^\i\\  be  ready  for  use. 
Mis.  Louisa  Ash,  Mount  Vernon,  Ohio. 

DKIED  YEAST. 

Put  a  pint  of  good  strong  hops  into  half  a  gallon  of  water,  and  let  it  boil  half 
an  hour.  Have  one  quart  of  flour  in  a  jar,  and  strain  the  boiling  hop-water  on 
the  flour,  and  stir  it  well;  set  it  iu  a  cool  place,  and  when  cool  enough  to  bear 
your  fluger  in  it,  pour  in  one  teacupful  of  good  yeast  to  start  it.  aud  put  it  in  a 
warm  place  until  it  rises;  then  stir  it  down,  and  contiuue  this  until  fermentation 
ceases,  which  will  be  in  about  two  days.  Now  have  a  pan  with  a  quart  of 
sifted  corn-meal,  pour  your  yeast  into  it.  adding  enough  more  meal  to  knead 
Avell,  then  roll  out  and  cut  into  cakes;  spread  the  cakes  on  a  cloth  over  an  old 
table  or  board,  wliere  the  wind  will  blow  over  it,  aud  turn  it  often  during  the 
day  until  it  is  thoroughly  dried.  If  iised  two  months  after  making,  it  will  be  as 
good  as  when  first  made. 

Mrs.  Julia  C.  Richardson,  North  Grove,  Indiana. 

BAKING-POWDER. 

9  ounces  of  bicarbonate  of  soda.     4  oiinces  of  tartaric  acid. 
4  ounces  of  cream  of  tartar.  10  ounces  of  wheat  flour. 

Cover  over  closely  after  thoroughly  sifting  it  several  times.    Put  away  iu  air- 
tight boxes  or  wide-mouthed  bottles,  labeled. 
Mrs.  R.  P.  Crouse,  Attica,  New  York. 


Chapter  X. 


During  the  season  when  eggs  are  plentiful  and  cheap,  many  persons  pack 
them,  small  end  down,  in  a  box  well  covered  with  coarse  salt,  never  allowing 
the  eggs  to  touch  each  other.  Have  small  holes  bored  in  the  bottom  to  drain  off 
the  moisture.    Some  use  oats  in  which  to  paclc. 

To  one  half  peck  of  unslaiced  lime  ndd  tliree  pailfuls  of  water;  wlien  cold, 
add  one  ounce  of  cream  of  tartar  and  one  half  pound  of  salt.  This  will  l^eep 
eggs  for  a  long  time. 

Ducli  and  goose  eggs  are  very  strong  as  a  food,  though  some  do  use  them. 

To  boil  eggs,  three  minutes  will  boil  (hem  very  soft,  five  minutes  will  cook 
hard  all  but  the  yolk,  and  eight  minutes  will  cook  them  hard  all  through. 

In  breaking  eggs,  break  them  separately  over  a  cup  to  l)e  sure  they  ai"e 
perfect. 

In  poaching  eggs,  add  a  little  vinegar  to  the  hot  water  to  set  the  whites;  the 
water  should  be  salted,  also. 

It  is  best  to  save  all  egg-shells  to  settle  coffee. 

To  tell  good  eggs,  put  them  into  water;  if  the  large  ends  turn  up.  they  are  not 
fresh.    This  is  an  infallible  rule  to  distinguish  a  good  egg  from  a  bad  one. 

If  possible,  have  double  kettles  to  cook  all  grains.  The  price  of  one  can  be 
saved  in  a  short  time  by  the  saving  of  what  usually  sticks  to  the  kettle  when 
cooked  in  the  ordinary  way. 

Wlieat,  oatmeal  and  barley  are  best  to  be  soaked  over  niglit. 

173 


^^^  EGGS,   OMELETS,   BKEAKFAST   AND   TEA   DISHES.  / 

Rice  and  liominy  are  much  nicer  when  preserved  in  the  whole  grain;  this  can 
be  done  by  steaming  them.  Hominy  will  talie  three  or  four  hours,  and  rice  from 
one  and  one  half  to  two  hours. 

Oatmeal  and  cracked  wheat  are  better  for  being  cooked  in  a  double  boiler, 
which  any  lady  can  have  by  setting  one  vessel  into  another,  and  keeping  the 
under  one  well  supplied  with  hot  water.  Add  salt  to  make  a  strong  brine, 
which  will  generate  a  greater  heat.  It  is  also  very  nice  steamed  from  three  to 
four  hours. 

In  making  buckwheat  cakes,  it  is  best  to  save  a  little  of  the  batter,  and  not 
cook  it  all.  That  which  is  saved  is  the  yeast  for  another  mess,  and  it  can  be 
kept  perfectly  sweet  by  filling  the  vessel  with  cold  water  and  letting  it  stand 
until  night  in  a  cool  place.  When  ready  to  use,  pour  off  the  water,  which 
absorbs  the  acidity,  and  mix  with  tepid  water.  In  the  morning,  stir  in  half  a 
teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water. 

Hominy  grits,  cerealine  and  prepared  wheat  are  all  nice  for  breakfast  use, 
and  if  soaked  over  night,  need  very  little  cooking.  Eat  with  sugar  and  milk  or 
molasses,  as  preferred. 

These  grain  foods  should  be  used  more  than  they  are,  as  they  contain  so 
much  more  nutrition  than  many  things  that  are  used;  and  for  growing  children 
there  is  nothing  better. 

Persons  living  in  the  country  who  do  not  find  it  convenient  to  purchase  wheat 
already  cracked,  can  use  their  coffee-mill  for  ci-acking  it.  Although  not  done  so 
evenly,  it  is  much  sweeter  than  that  you  buy. 

EGGS  AND  GRAVY. 

Put  a  young,  well-fed  fowl  into  a  stew-pan,  with  four  ounces  of  butter,  some 
spice,  a  faggot  of  herbs  and  half  a  dozen  small  onions,  let  it  brown  slightly  and 
equally;  add  half  a  pint  of  stock,  close  the  lid  tightly,  and  finish  the  cooking  over 
a  very  slow  fire.  Parboil  the  liver  of  the  fowl  in  some  good  gravy,  remove  it, 
and  poach  half  a  dozen  eggs  in  the  same  liquor.  Rub  down  the  liver  to  a  paste, 
and  use  it  to  thicken  the  gravy  in  which  the  fowl  has  been  stewed.  Place  the 
fowl  on  a  hot  dish,  with  balls  of  spinach  around  it;  lay  a  poached  egg  on  each 
ball,  fiattening  it  with  the  back  of  the  slice;  pour  gravy  over  the  fowl,  and  serve 
hot.    Time,  one  hour  to  stew  the  fowl. 

PICKLED  EGGS. 

Remove  the  shells  from  three  or  four  dozen  hard-boiled  eggs;  do  not  break 
them,  but  arrange  carefully  in  large-mouthed  jars.  Boil  one  pint  of  vinegar, 
with  allspice,  ginger  and  a  couple  of  cloves  of  garlic.  When  the  fiavor  of  the 
spice  is  extracted,  add  another  pint  of  vinegar,  bring  it  to  a  boil,  and  pour  scald- 
ing hot  over  the  eggs;  when  cold,  seal  up  the  jars  for  a  month.  This  will  be 
found  a  cheap  pickle  when  eggs  are  plentiful,  and  for  its  piquancy  is  much  liked, 

POACHED  EGGS. 

Place  on  the  fire  a  shallow  stew-pan,  with  water,  salt  and  a  tablespoonful  of 
vinegar;  when  it  boils,  add  the  eggs,  one  at  a  time;  permit  them  to  boil  two 
minutes;  take  them  up  carefully  with  a  strainer,  and  serve  on  delicately  toasted 
slices  of  bread  cut  into  the  shape  of  diamonds  or  hearts;  garnish  with  parsley. 


EGGS,    OMELETS,    BREAKFAST    AND   TEA    DISHES.  175 

FRIED  EGGS. 

The  frying-pau  should  be  .scrupulously  clean,  or  the  white  part  of  the  egg  will 
be  spoilod.  Dripping,  butter  or  cotton-seed  oil  may  be  used.  Break  the  eggs  first 
into  a  cup,  and  slip  each  one  into  the  pan  as  soon  as  it  is  hot.  As  the  eggs  fry, 
raise  their  edges  with  a  slice,  give  them  a  slight  shake,  and  ladle  a  little  of  the 
butter  over  the  yolk.  In  tAvo  or  three  minutes  tliey  will  be  done;  take  them  out 
with  the  slice,  pare  off  the  rough  edges,  and  drain  from  the  greasy  moisti.n-e. 
Serve  on  slices  of  bacon,  or  lay  them  in  tlie  middle  of  tlie  dish  with  bacon  or 
ham  as  a  garnish.    Allow  two  eggs  for  one  person. 

EGGS  A  LA  CARACAS. 

1/4  pound  of  smolced  beef,  1  cupful  of  canned  tomatoes, 

4  hard-boiled  eggs,  1  teaspoonfid  of  onion-juice. 

4  raw  eggs,  1-8  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon, 

2  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  grated      H  teaspoonful  of  paprika  or  a  dash 

clieese,  of  cayenne, 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  i/{;  cupful  of  mayonnaise. 

TYee  the  beef  from  fat  and  rind,  and  cliop  fine;  add  tlie  tomatoes,  onion-juice 
and  paprika,  and  cook  slowly  until  tlie  tomatoes  are  tender;  add  the  clieese, 
butter  and  cinnamon,  and  simmer  five  minutes;  stir  in  tlie  raw  eggs,  well  lieaten, 
stirring  until  as  thick  as  scrambled  eggs.  1'urn  into  a  hot  disli,  and  garnish  witli 
the  hard-boiled  eggs,  sliced  and  dipped  into  mayonnaise. 

Miss  Cornelia  Campbell  Bedford,  Superintendent  New  York  Cooking  School. 

EGGS  FOR  LUNCH. 

Boil  the  eggs  hard;  when  cold,  take  off  the  shells,  and  divide  the  eggs  lengtli- 
wise  into   halves;  take  out  the  yolks,   crumble  tliem   in  a  bowl,   adding  salt. 
pepper,  mustard  and  a  little  melted  butter;  Avhen  all  are  well  mixed,  fill  up  the 
hollows  of  the  whites  with  this  mixture,  and  serve. 
Aunt  Lena,  Canaan  Four  Corners,  New  York. 

SCRAMBLED  EGGS. 

Pour  one  cupful  of  cream  into  a  frying-pan;  when  hot,  pour  in  one  dozen  eggs 
previously  broken  in  a  dish;  cook  slowly,  stirring  constantly,  so  that  the  eggs 
will  be  evenly  done;  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  serve  hot. 
INIiss  Maggie  Tiehenor,  Waupun,  Wisconsin. 

FRICASSEED  EGGS. 

Boil  three  eggs  hard,  and  laj  thom  in  cold  water.  Melt  a  slice  of  butter  in  a 
stew-pan,  and  throw  in  a  finely  chopped  small  onion;  fry  until  soft.  Mix  a 
dessert-spoonful  of  flour  with  the  butter  to  a  smooth  paste,  add  two  tablespoon- 
fuls of  gravy,  and  stir  until  thick.  Cut  the  eggs  into  quarters,  and  lay  them 
gently  in  the  gravy.  Shake  the  pan  around,  then  IhroAv  in  a  small  cupful  of 
cream,  shake  the  pan  again,  but  do  not  break  the  eggs.  When  the  sauce  is  thick 
and  fine,  put  the  eggs  on  the  dish,  and  serve  witli  the  sauce  thrown  over,  and 
a  carnisb  of  lemon  around  the  dish.  Time,  ten  minutes  to  boil  the  eggs  and  t-.m 
minutes  to  prepare  the  fricassee. 


1'76  EGGS,    OMELETS,    BREAKFAST    AND    TEA    DISHES. 

FROTHED  EGGS. 

Mix  the  juice  of  alemon  with  one  tablespoonful  of  AA-.ater,  and  beat  up  n-ith  it 
tlie  j'ollis  of  eight  eggs  and  the  whites  of  four,  sweeten  to  taste,  and  add  a 
pinch  of  salt;  put  the  mixture  into  an  omelet-pan,  and  fry  carefull5\  Ha^^e  ready 
four  whites  of  eggs  whipped  witli  a  pound  of  fine  sugar  to  a  high  froth,  and 
flavored  with  vanilla  or  lemon.  Place  the  omelet  on  a  dish,  and  heap  the  frothed 
eog-  over  it.  Brown  it  lightly  in  an  oven  or  before  the  fire.  Time  to  fry,  about 
four  minutes.    Sufficient  for  four  persons. 

POTTED  EGGS. 

Pound  the  yolks  of  twelve  hard-boiled  eggs,  with  auchovy  sauce;  mix  tliem 
to  a  paste  with  two  ounces  of  good  fresh  butter,  and  season  with  two  teaspoon- 
fuls  of  salt  and  one  of  white  pepper.  Have  ready  some  small  pots,  and  chop 
the  whites  of  the  eggs  very  small.  As  the  pots  are  being  filled  with  the  paste, 
strew  in  the  chopped  whites,  and  cover  over  the  tops  with  clarified  butter. 
These  eggs  will  not  keep  long. 

STUFFED  EGGS. 

Six  hard-boiled  eggs  cut  in  two,  take  out  the  yolks,  and  mash  fine;  then  add 
two  teaspoonfuls  of  butter,  one  of  cream,  two  or  three  drops  of  onion-juice,  salt 
and  pepper  to  taste;  mix  all  thoroughly,  and  fill  the  eggs  with  this  mixture; 
put  them  together.  Then  there  will  be  a  little  of  the  filling  left,  to  Avhich  add 
one  well-beaten  egg,  cover  the  eggs  with  this  mixture,  then  roll  in  cracker- 
crumbs,  and  fry  a  light  brown  in  boiling  fat.  Plain  baked  eggs  make  a  quite 
pretty  breakfast  dish.  Talvc  a  round  whiteware  dish  thiclv  enough  to  stand  the 
heat  of  the  oven,  put  into  it  sufficient  fresh  butter,  and  break  as  many  eggs  into 
it  as  are  desirable,  putting  a  few  bits  of  butter  on  the  top,  and  set  in  a  rather 
slow  oven  until  they  are  cooked.  Have  a  dish  of  nicely  made,  buttered  toast 
arranged  symmetrically  on  a  plate,  and  garnisli  it  and  the  dish  of  eggs  with 
small  pieces  of  curled  parsley. 

EGGS   A    LA   SUISSE. 

Spread  the  bottom  of  a  dish  with  two  ounces  of  fresh  butter;  cover  this  with 
grated  cheese;  break  eight  whole  eggs  upon  the  cheese  witliout  breaking  the 
yolks;  season  with  red  pepper,  and  salt  if  necessarj';  pour  a  little  cream  on  the 
surface.  strcAv  about  two  ounces  of  grated  cheese  on  the  top,  and  set  the  eggs 
in  a.  moderate  oven  for  about  a  quarter  of  an  hour.  Pass  a  hot  salamander  over 
the  top  to  brown  it. 

EGGS   POACHED  A   UA    MOENAY. 

Poach  two  eggs  very  soft  in  slightly  salted  sweet  cream,  adding  four  drops  of 
tobasco  sauce;  lay  the  eggs  on  toast.  Make  a  Avell-buttered,  ricli  bechamel  sauce, 
and  add  to  it  some  fine  cooked  spaghetti  cut  into  lengths  of  one  third  of  an  inch, 
and  a  little  grated  Parmesan  clieese;  stir  all  well  together,  and  cover  the  surface 
of  tlie  eggs  with  this  preparation;  bestrew  with  a  little  more  of  the  cheese  and 
bread-raspings;  pour  a  little  melted  butter  over,  and  bake  in  a  very  hot  oven 
to  a  fine  color. 

A.  Gsxllier.  President  "  Societe  Ciilinaire  de  New  York,"  and  Chef   of  Hotel  Bruns- 
wick. Fifth  Avenue,  New  York.' 


EGGS,  omele:ts,  hreakfabt  and  tea  i)Ishp:s.  177 

IO(;(JS   BliOriLLE. 

G  efjg.s.  1  tcaspooiiful  of  salt, 

V2  cupful  of  milk  or  ciTam,  A  little  pepper, 

2  mushrooms,  3  tablespooufuls  of  butter, 

A  slight  grating  of  nutmeg, 
('ut  the  mushrooms  into  dice,  and  fry  them  for  one  minute  in  one  taljlespoou- 
ful  of  the  butter.  Beat  the  eggs,  salt,  pepper  and  cream  together,  and  put  them 
into  a  saucepan.  Add  the  butter  and  'nushrooms  to  these  ingredients;  stir  over 
a  moderate  heat  until  the  mixture  begins  to  thicken.  Take  from  the  fire,  and 
beat  rapidly  until  the  eggs  become  quite  thick  and  creamy.  Have  slices  of  toast 
on  a,  hot  disli;  heap  the  mixture  on  these,  and  garnish  with  points  of  toast. 
Serve  immediately. 

CKEAMY   OMELET. 

Have  ready  a  heavy  iron  spider  about  seven  inclies  in  diameter;  lieat  it, 
grease  it  with  one  half  tablespoonful  of  butter  by  running  tlie  butter  on  a 
broad  knife  around  the  top  edge  of  the  hot  spider  and  letting  it  run  down  the 
side  over  the  bottom  of  the  pan.  Beat  three  eggs  slightly  with  a  spoon,  add  three 
tablespooufuls  of  hot  water;  pour  the  mixture  into  the  greased  spider,  cook 
slowly  for  six  or  eight  minutes;  when  of  a  creumj  consistency,  sprinkle  with 
salt  and  peppei",  and  roll  like  jelly  roll;  serve  at  once  on  a  hot  platter. 

JMiss  Marion  L.  Campbell,  Friendly  Inn  Cooking  School,  Cleveland,  Oliio. 

APPLE  OMELET. 

Stew  eight  large  apples  very  soft,  mash  them  tiuo,  and  season  with  one  cup- 
ful of  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  and  nutmeg  or  cinnamon  to  suit  the 
taste;  when  the  apples  are  cold,  add  four  well-beaten  eggs.  Bake  slowly  for 
twenty  minutes,  and  eat  while  warm. 

PUFF  OMELET. 

Have  the  pan  ready  hot  and  greasecL  Separate  the  whites  and  yolks  of  three 
eggs,  add  one  fourth  of  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  to  the  wliites,  beat  them  stiff;  beat 
tlie  yolks  until  creamy;  beat  in  three  tablespooufuls  of  liot  Avater;  put  in  the 
b(>aten  whites,  pour  into  the  greased  pan,  cook  for  a  moment  on  top  of  the  stove, 
tlicn  place  in  the  oven;  when  well  puffed  and  dry,  fold  and  serve  on  a  hot  plat.ter. 
Three  tablespooufuls  of  chopped  meat  may  be  beaten  into  the  yolks  wlien  the 
omelet  is  being  made.  An  omelet  is  ready  when  a  knife  run  gently  into  the 
center  of  it  will  not  show  dampness  when  wlthdra^^  n. 

^liss  J[arion  L.  Campbell,  P^riendly  Inn  Cooking  School,  Cleveland,  Ohio. 

FRENCH  OMELET. 

()  eggs,  1  cupful  of  lioiling  milk, 

1  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter,  1  cupful  of  bread-crumbs. 

Salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 
This  is  sufficient  for  two  cakes.    Fry  them  in  suet  drippings,  and  when  nearly 
done,  tiu'u  each  cue  together  in  the  shape  of  a  half  uioon. 
Miss  Sarah  G.  Crandell,  Hoosiok,  New  York. 


178  EGGS,    OMELETS,    BREAKFAST    AND   TEA    DISHES. 

MEAT  OMELET. 

Made  like  the  creamy  omelet,  but  just  before  rolling  it,  sprinkle  it  witb  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  chopped  meat. 

PLAIN  OMELET. 

Break  three  eggs  into  a  bowl,  add  a  little  salt  and  white  pepper  and  one  table- 
spoonful  of  cream;  Avhip  well.  Put  one  teaspoonful  of  butter  into  a  frying- 
pan,  let  it  get  hot,  put  the  egg  mixture  into  it;  when  the  mixture  commences 
to  get  hard,  fold  it  up  on  the  opposite  side  of  the  handle,  and  keep  on  tlie  fire 
for  a  minute,  elevating  the  handle,  giving  the  omelet  the  shape;  then  with  a 
short  move  of  the  hand  turn  the  pan  over  the  center  of  the  dish,  and  serve  at 
once. 

N.  B.— The  omelet  should  never  be  allowed  to  brown,  as  an  "Omelet,  nice 
and  brown,"  an  order  given  so  often  by  ignorant  people,  is  a  culinarj^  mon- 
strosity. 

Eugene  Stny  vesant  Howard,  Member  of  the  Universal  Cookery  and  Food  Association, 
London,  England,  and  Chef  de  Cuisine,  Louisville  Hotel. 

BAKED  OMELET. 

Stir  five  tablespoonfuls  of  sifted  flour  into  tliree  pints  of  milk;  strain  it 
through  a  sieve;  add  the  yolks  of  eight  well-beaten,  eggs,  and  just  as  it  goes  into 
the  oven,  spread  on  the  Avhites  beaten  stiff.    Bake  quickly. 

HAM  OMEl^ET. 

Three  eggs,  two  gills  (one  half  pint)  of  milk,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  one 
gill  of  grated  ham  (cold  boiled  ham  will  do).~  Beat  the  eggs,  milli  and  flour  Avell, 
then  add  the  grated  ham,  and  fry  in  nice  lard  or  the  drippings  of  roasted  ham. 
Mrs.  E.  C.  W.,  Mount  Vernon,  Ohio. 

GREEN-CORN  OMELET. 

Boil  a  dozen  ears  of  sweet  corn,  cut  it  off  the  cob,  season  it  with  salt  and 
pepper,  and  stir  into  it  five  well-beaten  eggs;  take  a  tablespoonful  of  it  and 
roll  it  in  bread-crumbs,  then  fry  brown. 

OMELET,  WITH  HAM. 

Make  a  plain  omelet,  and  just  before  turning  one  half  over  the  other,  sprinkle 
over  it  some  finely  chopped  ham.    Garnish  with  small  slices  of  ham. 
Jelly  or  marmalade  may  be  used  in  the  same  way. 

BUCKWHEAT  CAKES. 

1  quart  of  lukewarm  water,  14  cupful  of  wet  yeast, 

1  cupful  of  flour. 
To  this  add  enough  buckwheat  flour  to  make  a  thin  batter.     Let  them  stand 
over  night  to  raise,  and  in  the  morning  dissolve  one  half  spoonful  of  soda  in  one 
half  cupful  of  lukeA^-arm  AA'ater,  and  stir  this  into  the  batter,  then  cook  quickly. 

Ella  Finch,  Otwell,  Indiana. 


EGGS,   OMELETS,    BREAKFAST   AND   TEA    DISHES.  179 

SELF-RAISED  BUCKWHExVT  CAKES. 

One  quart  of  lukewarm  water,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  molasses.  Into  this  stir 
enough  of  the  self-rising  or  prepared  buclvwheat  flour  to  make  a  thin  hatter. 
The  molasses  is  put  in  to  give  them  a  nice  brown  color  in  cooking,  and  not  to 
sweeten  them,  as  some  might  suppose.  The  advantage  of  this  prepared  flour  is 
that  it  is  not  necessary  to  set  them  over  night,  as  they  are  I'eady  to  bake  as  soon 
as  mixed.  This  flour  can  be  obtained  at  any  grocery;  also  Avheat  flour  for  wheat 
pancakes,  which  comes  prepared  in  the  same  waj . 

FLANNEL-CAKES. 

3  eggs,  1  teaspoonful  of  salt, 

%  cupful  of  butter  and  lard,  mixed,        1  teacupful  of  flour, 
2  quarts  of  sifted  meal. 

Mix  with  ssveet  milk  or  water  until  very  thin.  Fry  (luicklj*  on  a  hot,  well- 
greased  griddle. 

Mrs.  J.  T.,  Dublin  Depot,  Virginia. 

PANCAKES. 

2  eggs,  2  large  teaspoonfuls  of  soda, 

2  quarts  of  sour  milk,  A  pinch  of  salt, 

Enough  flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter. 

Cook  on  a  hot  griddle.    This  makes  a  large  quantity  of  batter. 
Agnes  Blair,  West  Liberty,  Ohio. 

CORN-MEAL  PANCAKES. 

Take  two  cupfuls  of  Indian  meal  and  one  teaspoonful  of  salt;  pour  over  it 
boiling  water  to  make  a  batter;  stand  until  cool,  and  then  add  the  yolks  of  three 
beaten  eggs,  floiu*  to  make  the  proper  consistencj^  one  and  one  half  teaspoonfuls 
of  baking-powder;  just  before  baking,  add  the  stiffly  beaten  whites. 

FRENCH  PANCAKES. 

2  eggs,  2  ounces  of  sifted  sugar, 

2  ounces  of  butter,  2  ounces  of  flour, 
!/{.  pint  of  new  milk. 

Beat  the  eggs  thoroughly,  and  put  them  into  the  basin  with  the  butter,  which 
should  be  beaten  to  a  cream;  stir  in  the  sugar  and  flour,  and  when  these  ingre- 
dients are  well  mixed,  add  the  milk;  keep  stirring  and  beating  the  mixture  for 
a  few  minutes;  put  it  on  buttered  plates,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  for  twenty 
minutes.  Serve  with  a  cut  lemon  and  sifted  sugar,  or  pile  the  pancakes  high  on 
a  dish,  with  a  layer  of  preserves  or  marmalade  between  each. 

BREAD  PANCAKES. 

3  well-beaten  eggs.  1  quart  of  sour  milk, 

1  tablespoonful  of  melted  butter,  2  cupfuls  of  bread-crumbs, 

1  good  handful  of  flour,  1  teaspoonful  of  salt, 

y-2,  teaspoonful  of  soda. 
Mrs.  R.  H.  H.,  Columbus,  Nebraska. 


1^0  EGGS,    OMELETS,    BREAKFASt   AiJB   TEA   DlSHEg. 

BREAD  I'ANCAKES. 

Soak  the  bread,  and  drain;  to  two  cupfuls  of  bread  add  one  of  flour,  milk 
enough  to  make  a  thin  batter,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder  and  one  egg, 
beaten  light. 

CORN-MEAL  CAKES. 

Scald  one  teaeupful  of  corn-meal;  to  this  add  another  teacupful  of  meal  and 
one  teacupful  of  sifted  flour;  add  one  pint  of  cold  water,  and  put  in  one  half 
teacupful  of  wet  yeast  and  one  half  teaspoonful  of  salt.  If  the  batter  is  too 
thick  to  pour  well,  add  more  water.  Set  in  a  warm  place  to  rise  over  night.  In 
the  morning  they  will  be  very  light  and  ready  to  fry,  without  stirring  them,  as 
soon  as  tlie  griddle  is  hot. 

WAFFLES. 

Two  beaten  eggs,  one  quart  of  light  flour,  one  iron  tablespoonful  of  melted 
lard,  one  level  teaspoonful  of  soda,  sour  milk  enough  to  make  a  batter  as  thick  as 
cream.    Don't  fill  irons  too  full;  the  irons  must  be  hot,  and  well  greased. 

MrSi  A.  E.  Kirtland,  Author  of  "  Mrs.  Kirtland's  Cook  Book,"  Montgomerj%  Alabama. 

RICE  WAFFLES. 

ll^  pints  of  boiled  rice,  3  eggs, 

1^2  pints  of  flour,  1  teaspoonful  of  soda, 

1  teacupful  of  sour  milk,  1  tablespoonful  of  butter, 

A  pinch  of  salt. 
Mix  all.  and  bake  immediately  in  well-greased  waflie -irons. 

RICE  GRIDDLE-CAKES. 

1  egg,  1  teaspoonful  of  soda, 

2-3  of  a  cupful  of  cooked  rice,         2  teaspoonfuls  of  cream  of  tartar,  or 
1-3  of  a  cupful  of  flour,  3  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder. 

Sweet  milk  enough  to  make  a  batter  thin  enough  to  fry. 
Any  cooked  grains,  hominy,  wheat,  oatmeal,  or  grits  of  any  kind,  can  be  used 
in  the  same  way. 

BREAKFAST  GRIDDLE-CAKES. 

To  one  and  one  half  pints  of  corn-meal  stir  in  boiling  water  until  it  is  a  stifl: 
mush,  and  set  away  to  cool;  add  one  egg,  one  and  one  half  pints  of  flour,  one 
teaspoonful  of  soda,  buttermilk  enough  to  make  a  batter,  not  too  thin,  and  bake 
like  buckwheat  cakes  on  a  griddle.  If  sour  milk  is  used,  add  another  egg.  If 
sweet  milk  or  water  is  used,  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cream  of  tartar. 
A.  B.  V.  D.,  Hammonton,  New  Jersey. 

RYE  BREAKP-'AST  CAKES. 

2  cupfuls  of  rye-meal,  1%  cupfuls  of  sweet  milk, 
V2  cupful  of  molasses,  1  teaspoonful  of  soda, 

A  little  salt. 
Mix  very  soft,  and  bake  at  once  in  a  roll-pan  or  muffin-rings. 
Mrs.  Mary  A.  Dodge,  Newcastle,  Maine. 


EOaS,   OMELETS,    BREAKFAST    AND   TEA    DISHES.  181 

KICE  CAKES. 

Boil  some  rice,  and  let  it  cool;  then  add  a  little  water  or  niillc,  making  it 
about  the  cousisteucy  of  buckwheat  cakes;  add  a  little  salt  aud  a  handful  of 
flour;  beat  in  one  egg.    Bake  on  a  griddle. 
Mrs.  Solon  H.  Ayres,  Charleston,  Nebraska. 

FRIED  BREAD. 

One  egg,  one  half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  half  pint  of  cold  water  or  milk; 
beat  well,  and  dip  into  it  slices  of  bread;  fry  tliem  in  batter.     Serve  hot. 
Miss  A.  E.  M.,  Wilmot  Flat,  New  Hampshire. 

STEAMED  BREAD. 

Slice  up  the  stale  bread,  and  lay  the  slices  carelessly  on  a  plate;  set  the  plate 
in  a  steamer,  with  sometliing  to  tip  it  a  little,  to  alloAV  the  steam  free  circulation; 
set  it  over  a  kettle  of  boiling  water,  and  cover  it  tightly.  Serve  with  butter  the 
same  as  toast. 

MILK  TOAST. 

Toast  the  quantity  of  bread  yon  will  want  for  the  meal.  To  prepare  for  the 
toast,  boil  one  quart  of  milk;  when  nearly  boiled,  stir  in  a  tablespoonful  of  corn- 
starch, wet  up  to  a  thin  paste  with  milk,  a  lump  of  butter  and  one  half  teaspoon- 
ful of  salt.  Arrange  the  bread  in  a  disli,  a  piece  at  a  time,  and  pour  some  of  the 
milk  over  each  piece.  Do  not  dip  your  bread  into  tlie  milic. 
Christie  Irving. 

SAVORY  TOAST. 

Fry  one  half  tablespoonful  of  finely  chopped  onion  in  one  tablespoonful  of 
drippings,  add  one  cupful  of  cold  cooketl  meat,  chopped,  cover  with  roast-meat 
grav}%  soup  stock  or  hot  water,  add  one  fourth  cupful  of  stewed  tomatoes,  one 
fourth  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  little  pepper;  pour  over  eight  little  circles  of 
toast,  and  garnish  with  parsley  and  toast  points. 

Miss  Marion  L.  Campbell,  Friendly  Inn  Cooking  School,  Cleveland,  Ohio. 

HAM  TOAST. 

Slices  of  toasted  bread,  with  the  crusts  cut  off,  two  eggs,  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  butter,  some  cold  grated  ham  or  tongue.  Put  the  yolks  and  whites,  well 
beaten,  into  a  stew-pan,  Avith  the  butter;  stir  them  two  minutes  over  the  fire, 
spread  them  over  the  toast,  and  lay  over  them  a  sutficient  quantity  of  cold  ham 
or  tongue,  grated  or  chopped  fine,  to  cover  the  eggs.  Serve  it  up  very  hot. 
Clara  Maxwell,  Fort  Scott,  Missouri. 

CREAM  TOAST. 

Toast  thin  slices  of  bread  to  a  delicate  broAvn,  lay  in  a  covered  dish,  and 
pour  boiling  water  over;  pour  off  the  water,  and  let  drain.  Put  one  pint  of 
rich,  sweet  cream  on  the  stove  in  a  quart  cup,  add  three  tablespoonfuls  of  butter, 
two  beaten  eggs  and  one  tablespoonful  of  corn-starch,  let  boil  up  once,  and  pour 
over  the  toast. 


182  EGGg,   OMELETS,  MEAKfASf  ANt)  5^EA  DISM^S. 

COFFEE-ROLLS. 

"Work  into  a  quart  of  bread-dough  a  rounded  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  half 
a  teacupful  of  white  sugar;  add  some  dried  currants  (well  waslied  and  dried  in 
the  oven),  sift  some  flour  and  sugar  over  them,  worlv  into  the  dough  thoroughly, 
malie  into  small,  long  rolls,  dip  tliem  into  melted  butter,  place  in  the  pan;  let 
it  rise  a  short  time,  and  bake. 

SALLY-LUNN. 

5  eggs,  11/^  cupfuls  of  butter, 

1%  cupfuls  of  sugar,  3  cupfuls  of  Avarm  sweet  milk, 

1  cupful  of  wet  yeast. 

Flour  enough  to  make  a  rather  stiff  batter,  and  when  it  is  light,  stir  in  two 
tablespoonfuls  more  of  flour;  pour  into  jelly-cake  pans,  let  it  rise  again,  then 
bake;  when  done,  butter  each  cake,  and  pile  them  one  above  the  other  as  a 
jelly-cake.    Serve  hot.    Half  the  above  quantity  is  sufficient  for  a  small  family. 

HOMINY. 

Thoroughly  Avash  two  cupfuls  of  hominy,  and  put  it  into  a  well-greased 
kettle,  pouring  over  tAvo  quarts  of  cold  Avater;  salt  the  water  a  little;  let  it  cook 
slowly  all  day,  pouring  on  hot  water  as  it  dries  down.  Never  stir  it  Avhile  cook- 
ing, if  you  would  haA'e  the  grains  Avhole  when  done.  Eaten  hot  or  cold,  with 
milk  or  butter. 

Mrs.  W.  B.  Reid,  Jackson,  Michigan. 

STEAMED   HOMINY. 

Soak  one  cupful  of  hominy  in  three  cupfuls  of  AA^ater  and  salt  to  suit  the 
taste,  over  night.  In  the  morning,  turn  it  into  a  quart  pail,  then  put  the  pail 
into  a  kettle  of  boiling  AA^ater,  cover  tightly,  and  steam  one  hour;  add  one 
teacupful  of  sweet  milk,  and  cook  half  an  hour  longer. 

FRIED  HOMINY. 

Have  a  frying-pan  with  hot  butter  in  it,  and  put  in  as  much  hominy  as 
required  for  the  meal;  pour  over  it  a  very  little  Avater  or  milk  to  keep  it  from 
burning  on,  salt  to  suit  the  taste.  Do  not  stir  it  while  cooking,  but  leave  the 
kernels  whole. 

CRACKED  WHEAT. 

The  water  must  be  cold  when  the  AA^heat  is  put  in.  Use  one  third  of  wheat 
to  tAvo  thirds  of  soft  Avater;  coA'er  closelj',  and  cook  sloAvly,  without  stirring, 
for  three  hours. 

TO  COOK  OATMEAL. 

Two  teacupfuls  of  oatmeal,  one  tablespoonful  of  salt;  put  them  into  a  quart 
tin  pail,  and  fill  it  three  fourths  full  of  water,  cover  closely,  and  set  in  a  kettle 
one  third  full  of  Avater,  and  boil  it  for  three  hours;  stir  it  tAvo  or  three  times 
Avhen  it  first  commences  to  boil. 
E.  E.  D.,  La  Crosse,  Wisconsin. 


EGGS,    OMELETS,    BREAKFAST    AND    TEA    DISHES.  183 

BREAKFAST  DISH. 

Take  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  fresh  elieese,  cut  iuto  thin  slices,  put  Into  a 
frying-pan,  and  turn  a  cupful  of  sweet  milk  over  it,  add  one  fourth  of  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  dry  mustard,  a  pinch  of  salt  and  pepper  and  a  piece  of  butter  the 
size  of  an  egg.  KoU  three  Boston  crackers  very  fine,  and  sprinkle  in  grad- 
ually; then  turn  at  once  into  a  -warm  dislj,  and  serve  immediately. 
Lottie  E.  Klump,  Felton,  Delaware. 

BREAKFAST  STEW. 

Chop  fine  whatever  cold  meats  remain  on  hand;  add  one  pint  or  more  of 
good  soup  stock;  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  a  sniall  pinch  of  ground  cloves, 
thicken  with  browned  flour,  and  pour  boding  hot  over  little  squares  of  nicely 
toasted  bread.    iJaruisli  Avith  slices  of  lemon,  and  serve  at  once. 

WELSH  RAKEBFJ'. 

Three  ounces  of  mild  cheese,  one  wine-glassful  of  ale  or  l)eer,  a  pinch  of  red 
pepper.  (Jrate  the  clieese,  add  the  beer  or  ale  and  pepper,  put  on  a  moderate  fire, 
stirring  it  constantly  until  it  forms  a  snmotli  paste.  Serve  it  on  a  hot  piece  of 
toast  on  a  very  hot  dish.    The  rarebit  must  boil  yet  in  the  dish  to  be  perfect. 

WELSH  RAREBFr. 

To  one  quart  of  Avarm  milk,  grate  or  slice  thin  one  fourth  of  a  pound  of 
cheese.  Let  this  come  to  a  boil,  and  pour  it  OA'er  sliced  toasted  bread.  This  is 
an  excellent  breakfast  dish. 

FOTATO  AND  BEEF  HASH. 

Mince  some  cold  beef,  a  little  fat  Avith  the  lean,  put  to  it  as  much  cold  boiled 
potatoes,  chopped,  as  you  like  (same  quantity  as  of  meat,  or  tAVice  as  aiuch), 
season  with  pepper  and  salt;  add  as  much  graA'y  or  hot  Avater  as  will  make  it 
moist,  then  put  into  a  steAV-pan  oA-er  a  gentle  fire;  dredge  in  a  small  quantity  of 
Avheat  flour;  stir  it  about  Avith  a  spoon,  coA'er  the  sIcAA-pan,  and  let  it  simmej:. 
for  half  an  hour,  taking  care  that  it  does  not  burn.  Dish  it  Avith  or  without  a 
slice  of  toast  under  it  for  breakfast.  This  hash  may  be  made  Avithout  potatoes; 
if  Avater  is  used  instead  of  gravy,  a  bit  of  butter  may  be  added,  more  or  less, 
according  to  the  proportion  of  fat  Avith  the  lean  meat. 

DRIED  BEEF. 

The  most  common  way  of  serving  dried  or  smoked  beef  is  to  shave  it  into 
thin  slices  or  chips,  raAA-;  but  a  more  savory  relish  may  be  made  of  it  with  little 
trouble.  Put  the  slices  of  uncooked  beef  into  a  frying-pan,  xs:ith  just  enough 
boiling  Avater  to  coA'er  them;  set  them  over  the  fire  for  ten  minutes,  drain  off  all 
the  AA^ater,  and  with  a  knife  and  fork  cut  the  meat  into  small  bits;  return  to 
the  pan,  which  should  be  hot,  with  a  tablespoouful  of  butter  and  a  little  pepper. 
HaA'e  ready  some  well-l)eaten  eggs,  alloAving  foiu"  to  half  a  poimd  of  beef;  stir 
them  into  the  pan  AAith  the  minced  meat,  and  toss  and  stir  the  mixture  for 
about  two  minutes.     Send  to  the  table  in  a  coA^ered  dish. 


184  EGGS,    OMELETS,    BREAKFAST    AND    TEA   DISHES, 

MEAT  AND  POTATOES. 

Mince  beef  or  mutton,  with  onions,  peppei-  and  salt;  add  a  little  gravy,  put 
into  scallop-sliells  or  sniall  cups,  tilling'  them  three  fourths,  and  till  them  up 
with  potatoes  mashed  with  a  little  cream,  put  a  bit  of  butter  on  the  top,  and 
brown  them  in  an  oven. 

HASHED  COLD  MEAT. 

Take  3'our  bones,  and  stew  them  in  a  little  water,  with  an  onion,  some  salt 
and  pepper,  and  if  you  like,  a  little  savory  herbs;  Avheu  the  goodness  is  all  out 
of  the  bones,  and  it  tastes  nice,  thicken  the  gravy  Avith  a  teaspoonful  of  corn- 
starch, and  if  it  is  not  very  strong,  put  in  a  bit  of  butter,  then  place  your  stew- 
pan  on  the  hot  hearth,  and  put  in  your  slices  of  meat,  warm,  but  do  not  boil. 
Ser-\'e  with  toasted  bread. 

CHICKEN  CUTLETS. 

Season  pieces  of  cold  chicken  or  turkey  with  salt  and  pepper,  dip  into 
melted  butter;  let  this  cool  on  the  meat,  and  dip  into  beaten  egg  and  in  tine 
bread-crumbs;  fry  in  butter  until  a  delicate  broA\u;  serve  on  slices  of  hot 
toast,  with  either  a  white  or  curry  sauce  povired  around.  I'ieces  of  cold  veal 
make  a  nice  dish,  if  prepared  in  this  manner. 

JELLIED  YEAL. 

Boil  the  veal  until  tender,  pick  it  fine,  put  into  a  mold,  add  the  Avater  it  was 
boiled  in,  and  set  it  in  a  cold  place;  season  with  salt  and  pepper  to  taste;  a 
layer  of  hard-boiled  eggs  improves  it. 

RICE  AND   MEAT   CROQUETTES. 

One  cupful  cf  boiled  rice,  one  cupful  of  finely  chopped  cooked  meat — any 
kind — one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  little  pepper,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  one 
half  cupful  of  milk,  one  egg.  Put  the  milk  on  to  boil  and  add  the  meat,  rice  and 
seasoning;  when  this  boils,  add  the  egg,  well  beaten;  stir  one  minute;  after 
cooling,  shape,  dip  into  egg  and  crumbs,  and  fry  as  before  directed. 

HAM  CROQUETTES. 

One  cupful  of  finely  chopped  cooked  ham.  one  of  bread-crumbs,  two  of  hot 
mashed  potatoes,  one  large  tablespoonful  of  butter,  three  eggs,  a  speck  of 
cayenne.  Beat  the  ham,  cayenne,  butter  and  two  of  the  eggs  into  the  potato; 
let  the  mixture  cool  slightly,  and  shape  it  like  croquettes;  roll  in  the  bread- 
crumbs, dip  into  beaten  egg  and  again  into  crumbs,  put  into  the  frying-basket, 
and  plunge  into  boiling  fat;  cook  two  minutes;  drain,  and  serve. 

BEEF  PATTIES. 

Chop  fine  some  cold  beef;  beat  two  eggs,  and  mix  with  the  meat,  and  add  a 
little  milk,  melted  butter  and  salt  and  pepper;  make  into  rolls,  and  fry. 

BREADED  SAUSAGES. 

Wipe  the  sausages  dry,  dip  them  into  beaten  egg  and  bread-crumbs,  put 
them  into  the  frying-basket.  and  plunge  into  boiling  fat;  cook  ten  minutes. 
Serve  with  a  garnish  of  toasted  bread  and  parsley. 


EGGS,    OMELETS,    BREAKFAST    AND    TEA    DISHES.  185 

MUSHROOMS. 

\A'nsli  your  Miuslirooins,  mid  cut  tliciii  iip;  pul  on  fc.  cook  willi  cold  WMlcr  :uid 
a  very  little  salt,  as  too  imu-h  destroys  the  liavor;  cook  half  an  hour,  then  stir 
into  the  Tuiuid  a  piece  of  butter  dipped  into  flour,  add  a  litile  pepper.  Serve  on 
toasted  bread. 

FOM)I'E. 

Butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  I/2  pound  of  cheese, 

1  cupful  of  bread-crumbs,  1  cui>fnl  of  iiiilk, 

3  eggs. 

Cut  the  butter  and  ciieese  into  small  pieces,  and  place  them  in  a  large  bowl 
with  the  bread;  on  this  i)our  scalding  milk,  after  whicii  add  the  yolks,  well 
l)eaten,  and  a  little  salt;  mix  well,  cover,  and  set  on  thf  back  of  the  stove, 
stirring  occasionally  until  dissolved,  wlien  add  tlu'  whites,  hcatcn  to  a  stiff  froth; 
place  in  a  buttered  pie-plate,  and  l)alve  in  a  (juick  oven  for  al)ont  twenty  min- 
utes. Serve  immediately.  Many  eat  mustard  with  it. 
Christie  Irviiij^. 

CIIICKEX  IX  .JELLY. 

A  little  cold  cliickon  (about  one  pint),  one  cupful  of  water  or  stock,  one  lifth 
of  a  box  of  gelnfin,  one  half  teaspoonful  of  curry-powdei",  salt,  pepper.  Cut  the 
meat  from  the  bones  of  a  chicken  left  from  dinner.  Put  the  bones  on  with 
water*  to  cover,  and  boil  down  to  one  cupful.  Put  the  gelatin  to  soak  in  one 
fourth  of  a  cu]»ful  of  cold  water.  When  the  stock  is  reduced  as  much  as  is 
necessary,  strain,  and  season,  add  the  curr.v  and  chicken,  season,  and  sinnner 
ten  minutes;  then  add  the  gelatin,  and  stir  on  the  table  until  it  is  dissolved, 
turn  all  into  a  mold,  and  set  away  to  harden.  This  makes  a  nice  relish  for  tea 
or  lunch.  If  you  have  mushrooms,  omit  tiie  curry,  and  cut  four  of  them  into 
dice;  stir  into  the  mixtiu-e  while  cooking.  This  dish  cjin  b(  v.iricd  by  using 
the  whites  of  hard-boiled  eggs  or  bits  of  boil<  <]  ham.  To  serve,  dip  the  nujld 
into  Avarm  water,  and  then  turn  out  on  the  disli.     (Tarnish  with  parsley. 

BOSTON  BAKED  BEANS. 

Pick  over  one  quart  of  pea-beans,  wash,  and  soak  over  night  in  cold  water;  in 
the  morning,  heat  to  a  simmering-point.  Mix  one  level  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one 
level  teaspoonful  of  mustard,  six  level  teaspoonfuls  of  sugar  and  a  speck  of 
cayenne  pepper.  ^lix  well  with  the  beans,  and  i)ut  into  an  earthen  bean-pot. 
Score  the  rind  of  a  piece  of  fat  salt  pork  (with  a  thin  layer  of  lean)  weighing 
froni  one  half  to  one  pound,  and  put  on  top  of  the  l)eans;  fill  up  the  pot  with  hot 
water,  cover  tightly,  and  bake  from  twelve  to  twenty-four  hours,  according  to 
the  color  liked,  in  a  hot  oven;  add  hot  water  frequently  to  keep  the  beans  well 
moi.stened. 

Mi.ss  Angeline  M.  Weaver,  Instrnctor  Hyde  School  Kitchen,  Boston,  Massachusetts. 

MUSH  BISCUIT. 

Two  quarts  of  cold  mush,  one  half  cupful  of  butter  or  lard.  Mix  enough  flour 
with  this  to  tm-n  out  on  the  molding-board;  roll  out  an  inch  thick,  cut  out  with 
a  biscuit-cutter,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes,  or  until  they 
are  a  rich  l)ro\\'ii  color. 


186  EGGS,   OMELETS,    BREAKEAST   AXD   TEA   DiSHEg. 

HONEY. 

This  is  a  charming:  addition  to  the  breakfast-table.  To  l<eep  it,  pnt  the 
honeycomb  into  a  large  sheet  of  good  Avriting-paper,  paste  the  edges  up  so  as  to 
form  a  bag,  and  hang  it  up  in  a  dry  place.  Honeycomb  may  be  kept  fresh  and 
good  for  a  year  by  putting  it  into  a  tureen  or  covered  dish,  with  a  cloth  beloAV 
the  lid  to  make  it  tight,  and  setting  it  in  a  cool  place.  Several  combs  may  be 
placed  one  above  another.     Keep  them  as  whole  as  possible. 

BIRDS'  NESTS. 

Chop  very  flue  one  ounce  of  beef  suet  or  cold  meat,  half  a  cupful  of  bread- 
crumbs, season  with  chopped  parsley,  powdered  thyme  and  marjoram,  a  little 
grated  rind  of  a  lemon  and  lialf  its  juice,  and  one  well-beaten  egg  to  bind  the 
mixture.  While  you  are  preparing  this  mixture,  have  four  eggs  on  the  stove 
to  boil  hard:  ten  minutes  will  be  sufficient.  Warm  half  a  pint  of  gravy.  When 
the  eggs  are  boiled  hard,  take  them  from  the  shells,  and  cover  them  thickly 
with  the  mixture.  Put  a  little  butter  into  a  stew-pan,  fry  them  a  light  broAvn, 
dish  them  up,  cut  them  into  halves  (fii'st  cut  off  the  top  of  the  white,  that  they 
might  stand),  and  serve  them  hot  with  the  hot  gravy  poured  over  them. 

YORKSHIRE  BUCK. 

Same  as  a  rarebit,  with  the  addition  of  two  strips  of  crisp  bacon  and  one 

poached  egg  on  top. 

Eugene  Stiivvesant  Howard,  Member  of  the  Universal  Cookery  and  Food  Association, 
London,  England,  and  Clief  de  Cuisine,  Louisville  Hotel. 

BREAKFAST  VANITIES. 

Mix  aud  sift  togetlier  one  pint  of  pastry-fiour,  one  half  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
one  teaspoouful  of  baking-powder;  mix  this  to  a  stiff  dough  with  milk  or  water, 
roll  out  thin,  cuj:  into  small  squares,  drop  into  boiling  fat. 
Miss  Ida  M.  Foster,  City  Hospital,  Wilkesbarre,  Pennsylvania. 


Chapter  XI.  * 

There  are  certain  articles  usually  called  side-dishes,  or  relishes,  which  some 
may  not  know  how  to  prepare,  althouj;h  havin,!;'  the  material  at  hand.  These 
are  nice  used  for  teas  as  the  accompaniinent  of  cold  meats.  Some  one  of  them 
should  always  appear  upon  the  table. 

ONION  IIELISH. 

Peel  four  Bermuda  onions,  slice  thinly  crosswise,  and  put  to  stand  for  two 
hours  in  one  cupful  of  cold  water  to  which  has  been  added  one  cupful  of  vinegar. 
Drain  off  the  water  a  few  minutes  before  serving,  arrange  in  a  dish,  and  sprinkle 
heavily  with  granulated  sugar.     To  be  eaten  with  beans. 

Miss  Angeline  M.  Weaver,  Instructor  Hyde  School  Kitchen,  Boston,  Massachusetts. 

DEVONSHIRP]   RELISH. 

One  medium-sized  head  of  cauliflower,  scalded  in  salt  and  water;  three  green 
peppers,  sliced,  scalded  and  well  di'ained;  one  quart  of  small-sized  green  toma- 
toes, sliced  thin  and  scalded  In  salt  and  water;  drain  the  above  well,  put  into  a 
jar,  and  pour  hot  vinegar  over  them,  letting  it  remain  three  days:  then  drain 
them,  and  make  a  dressing  of  one  quarter  of  a  pound  of  ground  mustard,  one 
and  one  half  cupfuls  of  sugar  and  one  half  cupful  of  tlour;  mix  the  flour  and 
mustard  smooth  with  cold  vinegar,  pour  into  boiling  vinegar,  and  cover  the 
pickles  with  it,  but  just  before  covering  add  three  heads  of  celery  (cut  into  small 
pieces  and  scalded  until  tender)  and  one  teacupful  of  grated  horse-radish.  This 
is  an  excellent  relish,  and  a  decided  change  from  the  ordinary  mustard  pickles 
containing  tin-merjc  and  oil. 


188 


RELISHES. 


MUSTARD  RELISH. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  tAvo  eggs,  aucl  stir  into  this 

3  tablespooufuls  of  mustard,  1  teaspoonful  of  salt, 

1  tablespoon  fill  of  black  pepper,  1  teaspoonful  of  sugar, 

i/o  teaspoonful  of  cayenne  pepper,  %  cupful  of  sharp  vinegar. 

Cook  until  the  thickness  of  cream.    If  too  thick,  add  vinegar. 
Mrs.  Mary  J.  Humphrey,  Le  Roy,  New  York. 

CRANBERRY  SAUCE. 
Wash,  and  pick  over  the  cranberries;  put  on  with  enough  cold  water  to 
cover  them;  add  a  pinch  of  soda.  This  will  bring  a  great  deal  of  stuff  to  the 
surface,  which  can  be  skimmed  off.  Let  them  cook  until  they  burst,  mash  them 
all  with  a  wooden  spoon,  then  add  the  sugar— two  pounds  to  three  quarts  of 
fruit;  boil  slowly  one  and  one  half  hours.  Always  cook  in  porcelain  or  an 
earthen  crock,  never  in  tin.  Some  strain  them  when  done,  and  put  into  a  jelly- 
mold. 

ASPARAGUS   SUEDOISE  SAUCE. 

Asperges  Sauce  Suedoise. 

,    Open  a  tin  of  asparagus,  and  place  it  on  some  pounded  ice  until  perfectly 

cold.    Take  a  tiiubal-mold  (specially  made  for  the  purpose),  and  fill  it  with  plain 

cold  water;  place  it  in  the  charged  ice-cave,  and  let  it  remain  for  two  and  one 


half  to  three  hours,  occasionally  turning  the  mold  from  side  to  side  in  the  cave, 
so  as  to  get  the  water  thoroughly  frozen;  then  dip  the  mold  into  tepid  water, 
pass  a  clean  cloth  over  the  bottom  to  absorb  any  moisture,  and  turn  out  the  ice 
onto  the  dish  on  which  it  is  to  be  served  on  a  dish-paper  or  on  a  folded  napkin. 
Drain  the  asparagus  on  a  clean  cloth,  cut  off  the  hard  part  from  the  bottom 
of  the  stems,  and  then  arrange  it  in  a  group,  as  shown  in  the  engraving,  in  the 
center  of  the  timbal  of  ice;  garnish  around  the  top  of  the  timbal  with  little  sprigs 
of  nice  green  fresh  chervil,  and  serve  for  second  course  or  luncheon  or  for  any 
cold  collation,  with  iced  suedoise  sauce  in  a  sauce-boat. 

ONION  SAUCE. 

Boil  half  a  dozen  small  white  onions  in  a  little  salt--\vater.  Melt  a  table.spoon- 
ful  of  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  one  tablespoonful  of  sifted  floiu-,  mix.  pour  in 
one  half  pint  of  white  stock,  and  let  it  boil;  season  with  salt  and  pei)per;  press 
the  onions  through  h  sieve,  add  to  the  sauce,  let  boil  up  once,  and  take  up. 


rp:lishe8.  180 

CPJLEIfY. 

When  brought  lioiiKs  if  nctt  Avaiited  iiniucdlately,  it  should  l)o  wrapped  in  a 
vvpt  flotli.  All  lioiu-  before  dinner  i)iit  into  fold  water,  then  clean,  and  arrange 
on  a  celery-dish.  A  more  ornamental  way  is  to  cut  the  stalks  into  pieces  four 
inches  lonj;,  split  these  four  or  five  times  with  a  sharp  knife,  lay  in  watei-  until 
they  curl;  remove  to  a  glass  dish;  eat  witli  vinegar,  pepper  and  salt. 

RHUBARB. 

Wash  your  stalks,  and  cut  them  up  into  inch  pieces,  not  removing  the  skin, 
as  the  chief  richness  of  this  vegetable  is  in  the  skin;  add  a  great  deal  of  sugar, 
but  no  water.  Cook  until  tender;  serve  hot  or  cold.  It  is  best  to  cook  it  in  a 
crock. 

TREPARED  MUSTARD. 

Put  one  pint  of  vinegar  on  the  stove  to  boil.  Stir  with  a  little  cold  vinegar 
one  tabkspoonful  of  fliour,  two  tablesi)oonfuls  of  ground  mustard,  one  teaspoon- 
ful  of  salt  and  two  of  sugar  and  about  one  third  of  a  teaspoonful  of  cayenne 
pepper;  stir  all  together  and  add  to  the  boiling  vinegar.  It  inaj'  be  too  thin  or 
too  thick,  but  one  or  two  trials  will  enable  any  one  to  tell  when  tliey  have  suttic- 
ient  fiour;  l)ut  if  too  thick,  add  a  little  cold  vinegar. 

TO  PREPARE  HORSE-RADISH  FOR  WIN'JER. 

In  the  fall,  mix  the  quantity  wanted  in  the  following  proportions:  One  coffee- 
cupful  of  grated  horse-radish,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  white  sugar,  one  half  tea- 
spoonful  of  .salt,  one  and  one  half  pints  of  cold  vinegar.     Bottle,  and  seal. 

To  make  horse-radish  sauce,  take  tAA'o  tables])ooiifuls  of  the  above,  add  one 
dessert-spoouful  of  olive-oil  (or  melted  butter  or  cream)  and  one  of  prepared 
mustard. 

WATER-CRESS. 

Water-cress  possesses  valuable  medicinal  properties  of  a  stimulating  nature, 
and  is  said  to  be  particularly  useful  in  strengthening  the  nerves.  The  expres.sed 
.I'uice,  which  contains  the  peculiar  pungency  and  taste  of  the  herb,  is  used  in 
medicine.  External  impurities  in  water-cress  may  be  removed  by  wasliing,  but 
not  the  impurities  wliich  are  absorbed  within.  If  the  full  virtues  of  this  herb 
are  to  be  experienced,  it  should  be  eaten  frequently  and  freely.  It  is  mostly  used 
v.'ith  bread  and  salt,  as  an  accompaniment  to  cheese.  It  is  also  used  to  garnish 
dishes;  it  is  excellent  served  as  a  salad;  and  it  is  good  boiled  as  spinach.  Water- 
cresses  are  good  from  autumn  until  early  summer  unless  when  cut  off  by  frost. 
Bronze-leaved  specimens  are  the  most  highly  esteemed. 

FRIED  APPLES. 

Quarter  and  core  apples  Avitliout  ))ariiig.  Prepare  a  frying-i)an  by  lieating  and 
putting  in  beef  drippings,  or  lard  and  butter  mixed,  lay  the  apples  in  the  pan, 
skin  side  down,  sprinkle  with  a  very  little  sugar,  and  brown  thoroughly.  Cover 
while  cooking. 


190  RELISHES. 

GLACE    BAKED   APPLES. 

Select  rosy-cheeked  B.-ildwin  apples  a^  ith  long  stem.s;  wipe  carefully,  and 
make  a  cut  one  half  inch  deep  around  each,  half  -way  between  the  stem  and 
blossom  ends;  put  into  an  earthen  dish,  with  two  cupfuls  of  Avater  to  six  apples; 
sprinkle  lightly  Avith  sugar,  bake  in  a  hot  oven  until  the  pulp  puffs  out  from  the 
crack;  put  into  a  glass  dish,  and  pour  over  them  llie  Avater  Avliich  has  been 
cooked  AAith  sugar  until  syrupy.  Put  a-way  to  cool,  so  that  the  liquid  Avill  candy 
on  them. 

Miss  Aiigeline  M.  Weaver,  Instructor  Hyde. School  Kitchen,  Boston,  Massachusetts. 

CUCUMBEES. 

It  does  not  seem  to  be  generally  knoA^'n  that  the  cucumber  is  one  of  the  most 
useful  vegetables  we  have,  and  can  be  dressed  in  a  greater  variety  of  palatable 
ways  than  any  other  except  the  tomato.  It  is  better  than  squash,  and  more 
delicate  than  the  egg-plant,  prepared  in  the  same  manner;  can  be  stewed,  fried 
or  stuffed,  and,  above  all,  can  be  parboiled,  mashed  up  in  a  batter  and  fried  as 
fritters— more  pleasant  and  easily  prepared  than  any  other  vegetable  or  fruit. 
When  a  cucumber  just*  becomes  too  old  to  be  used  raw  or  for  pickling,  it  is  then 
at  its  best  for  cooking,  and  may  be  used  for  that  purpose  even  until  the  seeds 
become  hard.  A  raw  cucumber  is.  for  most  persons,  an  indigestible  abomina- 
tion, hoA\-ever  much  they  may  admire  its  flavor  and  odor. 

FONDUE. 

Slice  a  stale  penny  roll;  pour  over  it  three  gills  of  boiling  milk;  Avhen  soaked, 
beat  it  well,  and  mix  Avitli  it  half  a  pound  of  finelj  grated  cheese,  Avith  the  yolks 
of  four  eggs  well  Avhisked.  All  this  may  be  prepared  when  most  convenient; 
immediately  before  it  is  Avanted,  beat  the  Avhites  of  four  eggs  into  a  solid  froth, 
and  add  them;  pour  the  whole  into  the  paper  forms,  and  bake  them  to  your  taste. 

FONDUE  A   L'lTALIENNE. 

Grate  half  a  pound  of  Parmesan.  Gruyere  or  any  good,  dry  cheese,  and  slir 
over  the  fire  half  a  pint  of  cream,  Avith  enough  flour  to  thicken  it;  when  of  the 
consistency  of  melted  butter,  add  the  cheese  and  a  little  salt;  mix  until  the  heat 
has  gone  off,  then  blend  Avith  the  above  ingredients  four  Avell-beaten  yolks  of 
eggs,  and,  last  df  all,  five  Avhites  Avhipped  to  a  fine  froth;  bake  in  a  papered  tin 
and  in  a  hot  OA^en,  filling  the  tin  to  only  half  its  depth.  The  fondue  should  rise 
very  high,  and  be  served  immediately,  or  it  Avill  fall,  and  the  appearance  be 
spoiled.    Time  to  bake,  twenty  minutes.    Sufficient  for  five  or  six  persons. 

CHEESE  FONDUE. 

Put  to  boil  one  pint  of  ucav  milk  Avith  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  in  it;  dissolA'e 
tAA'o  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  in  a  little  cold  milk,  and  stir  in  tlie  boiling  milk;  set 
off  to  cool,  season  with  salt  and  pepper  to  taste;  add  five  ounces  of  grated  cheese 
to  the  mixture,  and  four  eggs  beaten  separately  uidil  very  light;  mix  all.  and 
pour  in  a  buttered  dish;  bake  twenty  minutes.     SerA'e  at  once,  as  it  falls. 

Mrs.  A.  E.  Kirtland,  Author  of  "Mrs.  Kirtland's  Cook  Book,"  Montgomery,  Alabama. 


UeLIsHeS. 


191 


FONDUK   A   L'lTALIKNNK. 

Mix  half  a  pint  of  civiuii  witli  a  little  tlour  and  a  little  salt;  Iveci)  stirrinj?  it 
over  the  fire  uutil  it  is  as  thick  as  melted  butter;  theu  add  about  half  a  pouud  of 
finely  grated  cheese;  mix  it  all  well  until  it  is  half  cold.  I'hen  take  four  eggs, 
separate  the  yolks  from  the  whites,  put  the  former  to  the  cheese,  and  beat  it 
well  together.  Tlien  beat  the  whites  to  a  solid  froth,  and  add  tliem  to  tlie  rest; 
pour  the  mixture  into  an  ornamented  mold  or  deep  dish  lined  with  paper  cut  in 
a  fringe  at  the  top,  and  only  half  till,  as  it  will  rise  very  higli.  The  oven  must 
be  very  hot,  in  order  to  cause  the  rising,  and  the  dish  must  be  served  imme- 
diately, or  it  will  fall;  to  pi-event  which,  let  the  cover  be  of  metal,  strongly 
heated;  twenty  minutes  ought  to  bake  it. 

FONDUE  IN  CASES. 

This  fondue  may  be  made  in  any  form  desired— small  paper  cases,  molds  or 
tart-tins.  Pound  in  a  mortar,  with  egg  to  n)oisten,  e(iua]  (luantities  of  Swiss, 
Parmesan  and  cream  cheese  (a  (piarter  of  a  pound  of  each);  :noist(>n  witli  five 
eggs;  mix  tlie  egg  gradually  wliile  pounding;  bake  in  a  hot  oven,  allowing  time 
to  give  the  fondue  a  rich  color.   Serve  (juickly.   Time,  about  ten  minutes  to  l»ake. 

PAiniESAN  RINGS. 
Jtoiids  au  Parmesan. 
Put  into  a  stew-pan  one  fourth  of  a  pint  of  single  cream,  one  fourth  of  a  pint 
of  new  milk,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  dust  of  red  pepjier  and  three  ounces  of 
butter;  bring  this  to  a  boil,  tli<>n  add  five  and  one  half  ounces  of  line  flour  that 
has  l)een  sifted;  stir  well  togetlier,  and  cook  on  the  stove  for  live  or  si.x  minutes; 
llien  remove  from  tlie  fire  and  mix  into  it  four  raw,  well-1)eaten  eggs  and  one 
fourth  of  a  pound  of  grated  Parmesan  cheese;  mix  well,  tlx'U  put  some  of  the 


mixture  into  a  forcing-bag  with  a  plain  pipe,  and  force  it  out  onto  a  frying- 
strainer  in  the  foi-m  of  rings;  brush  these  over  with  whole  beaten  raw  egg,  and 
then  put  them  into  hot,  clean  fat,  and  fry  for  eight  to  ten  minutes,  when  they 
sliould  be  a  nice  golden  color.  Take  them  up,  dust  theni  over  with  grated  Pai'- 
mesan  cheese,  and  serve  hot  on  a  disli-paper  for  a  savory.  These  are  also  nice 
as  a  cold  dish,  and  can  be  used  for  l)all  suppers,  etc. 

RAMEKINS. 

2  eggs,  2  ounces  of  melted  butter, 

2  spoonfuls  of  flour,  2  ounces  of  grated  cheese. 

Mix  all  well,  and  bake  it  in  molds  or  tart-pans  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour. 


]  9^  RELISHES. 

RAMEKINS   A    LA   PARLSIENNE. 

Boil  half  a,  pint  of  milk  and  half  the  quantity  of  cream;  melt  one  ounce  of 
butter  and  a  little  salt;  mix  in  one  spoonful  of  flour,  and  stir  it  over  the  fire  for 
Jive  minutes;  pour  in  the  milk  and  cream  by  degrees,  and  work  it  smooth,  taking 
care  that  it  is  thoroughly  cooked;  then  take  it  off,  and  add  half  a  pound  of 
grated  cheese,  some  coarsely  ground  pepper  and  an  atom  of  nutmeg,  with  a  very 
little  powdered  sugar,  the  yolks  of  eight  eggs  and  the  whites  of  two,  well  beaten; 
when  perfectly  mixed,  add  the  whites  of  six  eggs  beaten  io  a  froth.  The  batter 
should  be  as  thick  as  cream.  Make  little  paper  tiays,  till  them  three  parts  full, 
and  bake  them  in  a  very  slow  oven  eighteen  minutes. 

FRIED  RAMEKINS. 

Grate  half  a  pound  of  cheese,  and  melt  two  ounces  of  butter;  when  the  latter 
is  getting  cool,  mix  it  with  the  cheese  and  the  Avell-beaten  whites  of  three  eggs. 
Lay  buttered  papers  on  a  frying-pan,  put  slices  of  bread  upon  it,  and  lay  the 
cheese  on  the  top;  set  it  over  the  fire  for  about  five  minutes,  then  take  it  off,  and 
brown  it  with  a  salamander. 

EGGS  AND  CHEESE. 

These  are  mixed  in  various  Avays  by  French  cook.^,  under  the  names  of 
fondues  or  fondeaux,  ramekins  and  other  titles,  for  the  purpose  of  preparing 
entremets,  or  side-dishes,  for  elegant  tables.  Gruyere  and  Parmesan  are  the 
most  proper  sorts  to  be  used,  but  any  dry  clieese  of  good  fiaVor  may  be 
employed. 

POTTED  CHEESE. 

Scrape  and  pound  ch^ese,  witli  a  piece  of  butter,  cayenne  pepper,  a  few  grains 
of  pounded  mace,  one  teaspoonful  of  sifted  sugar,  one  glassful  of  vinegar  and  a 
little  salt;  press  it  into  your  potting-jar  for  shape. 

COTTAGE  (DUTCH)  CHEESE. 

Take  a  crockful  of  clabbered  milk,  and  set  it  on  the  stove  to  heat  a  little; 
when  the  whey  and  clabber  separate,  pour  it  into  a  jelly-bag,  and  liang  it  up 
Avhere  it  will  drain  until  dry;  season  witli  salt,  a  piece  of  butter  or  rich  cream; 
use  pepper  if  desired;  mix  with  the  liand,  and  make  into  small  balls,  or  if  much 
cream  is  used,  serve  in  a  dish. 

Mrs.  N.  A.  McDonald,  Sago,  Ohio. 

CHEESE   STRAWS. 

Take  a  pint  of  flour  and  half  a  pint  of  grated  cheese;  mix  them,  and  make  a 
paste  witli  lard  as  you  would  for  pies;  roll  out  in  a  thick  sheet,  cut  into  strips 
one  half  inch  broad  and  five  or  six  inclies  long;  bake  a  light  brown.  Place  a 
white  napkin  on  a  plate,  and  pile  the  "straws"  in  log-cabin  shape  upon  it.  This 
is  a  delicate  dish,  to  be  eaten  with  salads. 
Mrs.  C.  S.  K.,  Springfield,  Ohio. 


RELISHES. 


103 


CHEESE  FLEIlt  I\  SIUriilSE. 

J^'li'iir  au  Fromage  en  Surprise. 

Lightly  butter  ii  tleui-riiiK,  tiud  place  it  on  a  hutteivd  paper  on  a  buttered 

baking-tin,  line  it  entirely  with  cheese  paste  (see  below)  about  one  fourth  of  an 

inch  thiciv,  trim  off  the  edges  neatly,  and  priclv  it   well  at  the  bottom;  fit  a 

buttered  paper  to  the  inside  of  the  tleur,  and  till  up  the  centi-r  with  raw  rice; 


balce  in  a  moderate  oven  for  about  twenty  minutes,  and  when  cooked,  take  up, 
remove  the  paper  and  rice,  and  fill  up  tlie  case  with  cheese  puree  (see  recipe); 
then  by  means  of  a  forcing-bag  with  a  large  rose-pipe  cover  over  quickly  with 
the  whites  of  four  eggs  that  have  been  whipped  stiff  with  a  pinch  of  salt  and  a 
dust  of  red  pej)per;  sprinkle  with  grated  Parmesan  cheese  and  a  few  browned 
bread-ci-umbs,  put  into  a  (piick  oven  for  about  ten  minutes;  then  place  on  a  hot 
dish,  and  serve  hot  for  a  second-course  or  a  savorj-  disli. 

Cheese  Paste.— Take  one  fourth  of  a  pound  of  fine  fiour,  two  ounces  of 
butter,  one  ounce  of  grated  Parmesan  cheese,  a  little  salt  and  pepper  and  one 
whole  raw  egg;  mix  into  a  stiff  paste  Avith  cold  water,  then  roll  out,  and  use. 

PINEAPPLE  CHEESE. 

The  preparation  of  the  curd  does  not  differ  materially  from  that  for  the  best 
factory  and  otlier  styles  of  long-lceepiug  cheese.  But  greater  care  and  skill  are 
needed,  for  a  slight  defect  which  would  not  much  affect  the  value  of  factory 


cheese  is  fatal  to  the  pineapple.  The  rind  must  be  perfect,  else  invisible  cracks 
will  open  during  curing,  and  the  least  admission  of  air  is  folloAved  by  internal 
molding.  In  the  mold  the  cheese  stands  with  the  point  down^x  ard.  A  neck  three 
and  one  half  inches  in  diameter  extends  upward  froui  the  l)ottom  of  the  cheese, 


194  tlELISHES. 

aud  receives  the  pressure.  These  necks  are  cut  off,  broken  up,  and  mixed  with 
the  next  day's  curd.  To  perfect  the  rind,  the  bottom  is  seared  witli  a  liot  iron. 
The  mold  is  constructed  from  four  bloclvs  of  four-inch  scantling.  The  carving, 
which  can  be  done  by  any  pattern-maker  or  skilful  carpenter,  is  done  inainly 
upon  these  quarters.  They  are  then  attached  to  one  another  in  pairs  by  iron 
bolts.  Two  halves  are  then  fitted  to  one  another  by  dowels,  and  held  together 
by  a  strong  framework  or  gripe  with  its  wedges.  The  mold,  when  complete,  is 
a  block  fifteen  inches  high  and  eight  by  eight  inches  in  size.  A  bag  of  strong 
drilling  is  thrust  downward  through  the  neck,  and  the  mold  is  then  ready  to 
receive  the  curd.  The  pressure  is  applied  either  by  screw  or  lever,  the  latter 
being  preferable.  This  is  the  simplest  method  and  crudest  for  pressing.  But 
there  is  a  great  saving  of  time  and  labor  by  the  crowders  and  gang-presses  now 
used  in  factories.  These  gang-presses  are  somewhat  ingenioiis  and  elaborate, 
and  press  fifty  cheeses  each.  The  cheeses  come  from  the  press  with  a  smooth 
siu'face,  and  the  impression  upon  them  is  made  by  the  net  and  the  process  of 
netting.  Nets  are  made  of  the  best  linen  twine,  are  made  by  hand,  and  with 
great  care.  After  being  drawn  over  the  cheese,  and  accurately  secured,  the 
cheese  is  hung  in  a  bath  of  hot  water,  the  temperature  of  which  is  regulated  by 
the  conditions  of  the  curd  and  of  the  weather.  They  are  then  withdraAvn,  one 
by  one,  and  subjected  to  a  machine,  which  at  the  same  time  stretches  and  twists 
so  as  to  give  an  even  impression  of  the  net  over  the  entire  surface  of  the  cheese. 
It  is  very  easy  to  net  cheese  if  there  is  no  attempt  made  to  make  them  hand- 
some. But  the  whole  question  of  profit  tin-ns  upon  their  beauty,  and  only  a 
skilled  hand  can  do  the  work  with  success.  After  setting,  they  pass  to  the 
curing-room,  and  are  hung  i»  the  nets  for  several  weeks,  or  until  the  nets  are 
required  for  use  upon  fresh  cheese. 

SANDWICHES  A  LA  VICTORIA. 

Cut  some  white  bread  into  thin  slices  and  butter  them  well,  then  mask  some 
with  a  chicken  puree  prepared  as  below;  place  a  slice  of  plain  bread  and  butter 


on  the  top  of  this,  and  press  w^ell  together:  when  all  the  slices  have  been  thus 
prepared,  mask  over  the  top  of  each  Avith  a  thin  layer  of  the  same  chicken  puree, 
and  with  a  plain  round  cutter  stamp  out  in  rounds  about  two  and  one  half  inches 
in  diameter,  and  then  cut  them  into  half-moon  shapes.  INIask  each  sandwich  over 
with  a  -v^  hite  chaudfroid  sauce,  resting  them  on  a  broad  palette-knife  during  the 
process;  then  garnish  each  of  them  across  in  three  divisions  alternately  with 
chopped  and  pressed  parsley,  chopped  tongue,  and  yolk  of  hard-boiled  egg  that 
has  been  passed  through  a  wire  sieve;  set  this  garnish  by  sprinkling  a  few  drops 


KE1>ISHKS. 


195 


of  aspic  jolly  over  it;  tlu'U  dish  up  f)n  a  disli-papcr,  as  in  tlic  ciiyniviii^',  placinj;' 
iu  the  foutt'i'  some  AvoU-washcd  small  sahid,  and  jiaruisldng  around  the  outside 
of  the  sandwiches  with  little  blocks  of  asi)ic  jelly,  and  i)lace  arouud  the  jelly  at 
regular  intervals  some  little  Imnclu  s  of  the  yolk  of  hai'd-ltoiled  eti"?;'  and  a  little 
chopped  parsley,  and  serve  for  a  lunclieon  or  second  course  dish,  tea  or  for  eve- 
nins?  parties  or  ball  supper. 

Puree  of  Ciiickex  for  Sandwiches  a  la  Victoria. — Pound  together  into  a 
paste  one  half  pound  of  cooked  chicken,  with  two  ounces  of  butter,  a  little  salt 
and  Avhite  pepper,  a.  dust  of  pepper,  one  tablespoouful  of  thick  cream,  one  and 
one  half  tablespoonfuls  of  bechamel  sauce,  one  dessert-spoonful  of  tarragon  and 
the  same  of  chilli  vinegar,  and  ml)  through  a  wire  sieve. 

HAM  SANinVICHES. 

Cut  thin  slices  from  a  well-boiled  ham,  trim  off  all  the  fat.  cut  into  stiMps. 
Butter  thin  slices  of  st.ile  bread,  lay  the  ham  on  them,  sjjread  with  a  little 
mustard,  cover  with  upper  slices  of  bread,  and  press  together. 

TURKEY  SANDWICH. 

Cut  slices  of  cold  turkey  as  thin  as  possible,  dip  into  plain  salad  dressing, 
place  between  slices  o£  st.ale  bread,  press  together,  and  serve. 

SANDWICHES   A    LA    LOUISE. 

Take  some  thin  slices  of  stale  bread,  butter  them,  then  spread  them  over  with 
egg  puree,  as  below,  and  on  the  egg  place  a  layer  of  washed  and  boned 
anchovies,  and  then  a  sprinkling  of  small  salad;  close  this  over  with  another 


slice  of  buttered  bread,  pressing  well  together,  and  with  a  plain  round  cutter 
stamp  out  into  rounds  about  two  inches  in  diameter.  Mask  over  Avith  sauce,  as 
below,  taking  care  the  sauce  is  used  when  cooling,  and  sprinkle  each  with  a  little 
lobster  coral  or  coralline  pepper  and  chopped  Spanish  olive.  Dish  on  a  pajier 
on  a  plate,  and  garnish  around  A\ith  little  bunclies  of  picked  fresh  salad  and 
little  blocks  of  aspic  jelly,  and  in  the  center  arrange  layers  of  yolk  and  wliite  of 
hard-boiled  egg  that  have  passed  through  a  Avire  sieA'e,  and  some  chopped 
cooked  beet-root. 

Egg  Puree  for  Sandwiches  a  la  Loxtise. — Take  four  yolks  of  hard-boiled 
eggs,  tAvo  ounces  of  good  buttei'.  one  taldespoonful  of  bechamel  sauce,  a  dust  of 
pepper,  six  raw  beai-ded  oysters;  pound  until  smooth,  then  vuh  through  ;i  tine 
hair-sieve,  and  use, 


196 


KELISIIES. 


SARDINE  SANDWICH. 

Remove  the  skin  of  half  a  dozen  sardines,  split,  and  take  out  the  bones. 
Spread  slices  of  bread  very  thinly  with  butter,  ])lace  on  each  tA\o  lialves  of  the 
tish,  squeeze  a  little  lemon-juice  over  ihem,  add  a  crisp  leaf  of  lettuce  to  each, 
and  put  a  slice  of  buttered  bread  on  top. 

EGG   SANDWICH. 

Boil  half  a  dozen  eggs  hard;  when  cold,  remove  the  shells,  and  cut  into  thin 
slices;  season  with  salt  and  pepper;  butter  slices  of  bread;  put  four  slices  of  egg 
into  each  sandwich. 

SANDWICHES   A    LA   FIANE. 

Take  some  little  sandwich-molds,  line  them  thinly  with  aspic  jelly,  ornament 
them  with  shreds  of  red  French  cliilli,  wliite  of  egg  and  picked  leaves  of  chervil, 
setting  these  with  a  little  more  aspic;  fill  the  molds  with  some  thinly  cut 
slices  of  pate  de  foie  gras.  Dine  some  more  molds  with  a  plain  aspic,  and  fill 
these  up  with  a  puree  of  chicken  or  nny  white  meat,  let  this  partly  set,  then  pour 


a  little  liquid  aspic  into  the  molds  containing  Ihe  foie  gras,  and  place  those  con- 
taining tlie  chicken  to  those  with  the  foie  gras;  then  leave  until  set  and  firm,  and 
when  cold,  turn  out  the  contents  of  each  pair  of  molds  by  dipping  them  into  liot 
water,  and  place  each  on  a  fried  crouton  about  the  same  size  as  the  molds. 
Dish  up  on  a  cold  dish  on  a  paper,  and  garnish  here  and  there  with  bunches  of 
Avell-washed  cress,  and  when  in  season,  quarters  of  boiled  plovers'  eggs  that 
are  sprinkled  with  a  little  pepper.  Serve  as  a  cold  entree  for  dinner,  luncheon, 
tea  or  ball  supper. 

Chicken  Dxiree  for  Sandwiches  a  i.a  Fiane.— 1'ake  for  six  to  eight  molds, 
four  ounces  of  cooked  chicken,  one  half  gill  of  strong  chicken  stock,  one  ounce 
of  butter,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cream,  a  pinch  of  salt  and  white  pepper  and  one 
dessert-spoonful  of  bechamel  sauce;  pound  until  smooth,  then  mix  Avith  one  and 
one  half  gills  of  cool  aspic  jelly,  tammy  or  rub  through  a  fine  hair-sieve,  and  use 
when  beginning  to  set,  so  as  to  allow  the  two  mixtures  to  join  together. 

CHEESE  SANDWICH. 

Butter  slices  of  thinly  cut  bread,  sprinkle  over  a  fcAv  sprigs  of  chopped  pars- 
ley. Cut  the  cheese  into  tliin  slices,  put  between  the  bread,  and  serve.  Cheese 
mixed  wHli  butter  and  sprcvid  on  bread,  or  grated  o'ser  slices  of  buttered  bread, 
makes  excellent  sandwiches. 


UKLiaiiKy. 


197 


T<)N(JI:E  SAM>WI('11. 

Cut  iij)  iKiir  ;i  pound  of  cold  boiled  btH'f  touiiuo.  i)U(  it  into  a  uiortar,  witli 
tlio  yolks  of  two  liard-boilcd  o.n.ii's.  i)U(>  tahlospooufid  of  uiustanl.  salt  and  a 
little  cayeime  pcpiK-r.  pound  to  a  paste;  nioisti-n  with  a  very  little  ci'eani;  sprea<l 
the  paste  on  slices  of  bread,  press  to,i;(  tli.<r.  cut  in  two,  .ind  seive.  Ton.uue  may 
also  be  sliced  thin,  spread  with  I'reucli  mustard,  and  laid  between  slices  of 
butti'ri'd  bread. 

J5ALLKTT1<:S   OK    FOIK  (1KA8   A    L'lMrEKIAI.E. 

lUillctfvfi  (Ic  Foie  G'nr.s  (t  riiiiprrictlf. 
Line  some  little  molds  thinly  with  aspic  jelly,  and  uarnish  them  with  ejii^ 
nuxtures  in  red  and  white,  slaniiied  out  into  tiny  rin.ys  the  size  of  a  tive-cent 
l)iece  (see  recipe  "Kuu-  (Jarnishes  for  Soups  and  Molds");  set  this  garnish  Avith 
a  little  asi)ic  .lelly.  and  then  lill  u]i  the  centers  with  a  nice  piece  of  pate  de  foie 
gras;  set  this  with  a  little  moi-e  li(pdd  aspic  .ielly.  close  up  the  molds,  and  leave 


them  until  the  c(mtents  are  firm;  then  dii)  each  mold  into  hot  water,  and  turn 
out  onto  a  bed  of  tinely  chopped  aspic  .ielly;  garnish  with  spri,us  of  tarra.iion  and 
chervil  and  halves  of  <'ooked  artichoke  bottoms  that  are  tilled  with  flasreolets 
nnxed  with  a  little  salad-oil,  tarragon  and  chilli  vin(\uar,  and  serve  for  an  entree 
for  dinner  or  luncheon  or  any  cold  sei-vice. 


SOUFFLE  OF  FOIE  OKAS  A  LA  IMOXTKEAL, 
Souffle  de  Foie  Oras  (1  la  Montreal. 
Place  a  double  band  of  ]iai)er  around  the  outside  of  a  silver  or  paper  soutlle- 
case  so  that  it  stands  about  four  inches  above  the  cas(\  fix  it  with  a  little  s(>alin.s;- 
wax,  and  then  line  it  with  a  mock  foie  eras  (u-  liver  farce  jirepared  as  below  by 
nH>aus  of  a  forcinsi-bas::  with  a  plain  pipe,  forcius-  out  the  mixture  to  the  thick- 
ness and  leuiilh  of  tiniier-biscuits;  smooth  this  over  with  a  wet.  warm  knife, 
then  lill  u])  the  insi(h-s  of  the  c;is(>  with  the  cream  mi\tui-e.  as  below,  and  luit  the 
souttle  into  tlu^  ice-box  for  about  one  liour;  then  remove  tlie  p;ii)er  band,  and 
garnish  the  top  of  the  souttle,  ;is  in  the  eiiiiraving,  with  cooked  artichoke  bottoms 
that  have  been  slic(»d,  and  seasoned  with  a  little  salad  oil,  tarragon  vineg.ar, 
chopped  tarragon  and  a  littl<>  tinely  chopped  asjiic  .jelly.  Serve  on  a  nai)kin  or 
dish-paper  for  an  entree  or  second-course  dish  or  for  a  cold  collation. 

CHKAM    MlXriHK    KOI!    SorFFLK   OF    I'"()IF   (JUAS    A    I. A    INI  O.NIKF  A  F.  -  Wll  ip   OUC   piut 

of  double  cream  until  iterfectly  stiff,  tluai  whip  h;df  a  pint  of  consonune  or  good 
chicken  stock  of  th(>  consistency  of  .i<'lly,  with  Indf  a  pint  of  as|)ic  until  si)ongy. 
;idd  this  to  the  cream,  with  a  dust  of  pepi»er  and  a  pinch  of  salt;  cut  u|)  the  cou- 


198 


EELISHES. 


tents  of  a  small  tin  of  pate  de  foie  gras  into  tiny  dice  shapes  with  a  wet,  warm 
knife,  and  mix  Avith  the  other  ingredients,  add  two  or  thrive  chopped  truffles,  and 
put  all  into  a  forcing-bag  with  a  plain  pipe,  and  use  as  directed  above. 

Mock  Foie  Geas  or  Liver  Farce  for  Souffle  a  ea  Montreal.— Cut  into 
square  pieces  one  pound  of  calf's  liver,  one  half  pound  of  raw  bacon  and  one 
onion,  add  a  pinch  of  salt  and  pepper,  and  fry  over  a  quick  fire  in  two  ounces  of 


butter  for  two  or  three  minules;  remove  from  tlie  pan,  and  pound,  and  pass 
through  a  wire  sieve  while  hot;  then  add  two  or  three  shredded  truffles,  mix 
with  half  a  pint  of  liquid  aspic  jelly,  and  stir  on  ice  until  the  mixture  is  getting 
set,  then  put  into  a  bag  with  a  large,  plain  pipe,  and  use  as  instructed. 

MOUSSE  OF  FOIE  GEAS  A  LA  EOSSINl. 
llou.sse  de  Foie  Gras  ci  la  Rossioii. 
Line  a  plain  round  charlotte-mold  thinly  with  liquid  aspic  jelly,  ornament  it 
with  truffles,  gherkins,  red  chillies  and  white  of  hard-boiled  egg  that  are  cut 
into  slices,  then  stamped  out  in  any  prettj'  designs,  setting  them  to  the  mold 
with  a  little  more  aspic  to  keep  them  in  their  places.  Take  the  contents  of  a 
jar  of  pate  de  foie  gras,  and  rub  it  through  a  clean,  fine  wire  sieve,  and  mix  it 
with  two  wine-glassfuls  of  sherry.     Take  half  a  pint  of  good-flavored  light 


stock,  mix  it  with  a  little  more  than  one  fourth  of  an  ounce  of  gelatin,  and 
when  dissolved,  strain,  and  leave  until  somewhat  cool;  whip  it  in  a  whipping- 
tjn  until  quite  spongy,  add  this  to  the  foie  gras,  and  pour  it  into  the  prepared 
mold;  leave  it  on  ice  until  cold  and  firm;  then  dip  it  into  hot  water,  pass  a  clean 
cloth  over  the  bottom  to  absorb  any  moisture,  turn  out  the  mousse  onto  a  bed 
of  plainly  boiled  cold  rice,  garnish  it  with  little  blocks  of  cut  aspic  jelly,  and 
serve  for  a  cold  entree  or  for  second  course  or  any  cold  collation. 


RELISHES. 


loy 


LITTLE  BOUCHERS  OF  FOIL  GRAS  A  LA  RUSSE. 
Petites  Bouchces  de  Foie  Gras  (i  la  Rtuise. 
Thinly  line  some  little  molds  with  aspic  jelly,  gaiTiish  them  with  little  thinly 
out  strips  of  hard-boiled  white  of  egg,  and  place  here  and  there  around  the  mold 
some  little  bea<ls  of  the  prepared  red  garnish,  using  a  forcing-bag  with  a  small, 
plain  pipe  for  ihe  purpose,  and  at  the  bottom  of  the  mold  form  a  little  border 
all  around  with  finely  shredded  lettuce,  setting  it  with  a  little  more  li(piid  aspic 
jelly.  Place  a  little  piece  of  pate  de  foie  gi'as  in  the  center  of  each  mold,  then 
till  them  up  entirely  with  liquid  aspic  jelly,  and  put  aside  until  set.  Take  some 
little  square  paper  cases,  nearly  tilling  them  with  the  prepared  salad,  turn  out 
the  little  bouchees  by  dipping  them  into  hot  water,  and  draining  them  on  a  clean 
cloth,  and  place  one  in  each  case  on  top  of  the  green  salad,  and  by  means  of  a 
forcing-bag  with  a  medium-sized  pipe  form  a  littL?  border  of  finely  chopped  aspic 
jelly  all  around  the  edge  of  the  case;  place  a  tiny  sprig  of  raw  green  chervil  or  a. 
small  cleansed  radish  at  the  four  corners  of  the  case,  dish  up  on  a  dish-paper  on 


entree  or  flat  dish,  and  serve  for  cold  entree,  second-course  dish  or  for  any  cold 
collation. 

Red  (Jarnisii  for  Littt.k  Bouchees  of  Foie  Gras  a  ea  Russe. — Take  about 
two  ounces  of  finely  chopped  lean  cooked  ham  or  tongue,  mix  it  with  sufficient 
liquid  aspic  jelly  to  cover  it,  season  with  a  little  pepper  and  a  few  drops  of 
carmine,  stir  until  beginning  to  set,  then  put  into  the  forcing-bag.  and  use  as 
directed. 

Salad  for  Little  BorniEES  of  Foie  Gras  a  la  Russe. — Take  the  heart  of  a 
nice,  well-washed,  crisp  lettuce,  dry  it  will,  cut  it  into  shreds,  mix  with  it  a  little 
freshly  chopped  tarragon  and  chervil,  season  with  a  little  salad-oil  and  salt;  mix, 
and  use. 

TIMBALS  OF   FOIE  GRAS  A   LA    BEATRICE. 
Timhale-'i  de  Foie  Gras  (t  la.  Beatrice. 

Line  the  little  egg-molds  very  thinly  with  strong  aspic  jelly,  then  ornament 
them  with  finely  shredded  raw,  crisp  green  lettuce,  green  French  gherkins  cut 
into  shreds,  and  a  little  tarragon  and  red  chilli;  set  these  with  a  little  aspic  jelly, 
then  fill  up  the  centers  with  pieces  of  pate  de  foie  gras  and  trutHe  cut  into  strips, 
add  a  little  aspic  jelly  to  set  this,  and  ])ut  on  ice  to  get  cold.  Line  a  border-mold 
Avith  aspic  jelly,  ornament  it  around  the  edge  similarly  to  the  eggs,  then  fill  up 
with  aspic,  and  put  aside  to  get  cold;  when  ready  to  serve,  dip  the  molds  into 
warm  water,  and  turn  out;  arrange  an  egg  sha]ie  in  eacli  of  the  spaces  of  the 
piccolo,  put  some  chopped  as])ic  into  the  center  by  means  of  a  forcing-bag  and 
pipe,  and  dish  another  egg  on  the  top  of  this,  as  in  the  engraving;  garnish  around 


§00 


RELISHES. 


this  with  c-hopped  aspic  jelly  and  quarters  of  plovers'  or  chickens'  eggs  that  are 
sprinkled  with  chopped  truffle  and  shreds  of  red  chilli,  and  then  masked  with 
aspic  jelly,  and  here  and  there  some  nice  vegetable,  to  a  pint  of  which  one  table- 
spoonful  of  salad-oil,  one  tablespoonful  of  tarragon  vinegar,  a  few  drops  of  chilli 
vinegar  and  a  pinch  of  mignonette  pepper  have  been  added.     Place  in  each 


corner  of  the  dish,  as  in  the  engraving,  a  little  round  of  thick  mayonnaise,  using 
a  forcing-bag  and  pipe  for  the  purpose,  with  some  of  tlie  vegetables,  and  serve 
for  a  cold  entree  or  for  any  cold  collation. 

TIMBAL  A   LA   JARDINIERE. 

Timbale  a  la  Jardiniere. 
Line  a  fancy  border-mold,  as  shoAvn  in  the  design,  with  aspic  jelly  about  an 
inch  thick,  then  garnish  it  with  little  fresh  sprigs  of  raw  chervil  and  tarragon, 
and  here  and  there  place  in  the  mold  some  quarters  of  hard-boiled  egg  that  are 
garnished  with  strips  of  French  red  cliilli,  and  then  set  in  the  mold  Avith  a  little 
aspic  jelly,  and  fill  up  the  inside  of  the  mold  between  the  egg  with  cooked  veg- 
etables; set  this  Avith  cool  aspic  jelly,  and  place  on  ice  until  quite  firm,  then  dip 


the  mold  into  hot  water,  and  turn  out  on  a  flat  cold  dish,  and  fill  up  the  center 
of  the  timbal  with  any  nice  cooked  meat,  such  as  chicken  or  other  bird  that  is 
cut  into  thin  slices  and  seasoned  Avith  vinaigrette  sauce;  then  by  means  of  a 
large  forcing-bag  and  rose-pipe  cover  over  with  a  good  thick  mayonnaise  sauce. 
SerA^e  for  a  second-course  dish  or  for  luncheon,  etc. 


RELISHES. 


201 


LITTLE  TIMBALS  A  LA  I5KLLE  LUCiEML. 
PetiteH  Tiiiilxdcs  a  la  BcUc  Eiigrnie. 
Tako  .some  littlo  tinted  dariol-molds,  and  lino  tlieni  al»()Ut  one  eiglitli  of  an 
ineli  tliielv  witli  strong-  aspic  jelly;  tlien  arrange  alternately  aronnd  the  molds 
from  top  to  bottom,  strips  of  cooked  filleted  sole  that  are  cnt  about  two  inches 
long  by  one  fourth  of  an  inch  thick,  and  boned  C'hristiania  anchovies,  with  raw 
peeled  tomatoes  that  are  also  cut  into  strips;  set  this  garnish  to  the  sides  of  the 
molds  with  a  little  aspic,  and  fill  up  the  centers  with  about  one  teaspoonful  of 
picked  shrimps  or  two  or  three  of  the  prepared  craytish;  cover  tliis  with  aspic, 
and  put  aside  until  set;  wlien  ready  to  serve,  plunge  each  mold  into  hot  water, 
and  turn  out  the  tind)als;  dish  them  up  on  a  border  of  aspic  jelly,  place  a  wax 
figure  with  a  toj)  in  the  center,  and  garnish  it  around  witli  a  ragout  of  cold  pieces 
of  cooked  sole,  anchovies,  turned  olives  and  tomatoes  that  are  cut  up  into  little 
square  pieces,  and  seasoned  with  a  little  finely  chopped  tarragon  and  chervil, 


salad-oil  and  tarragon  vinegar;  arrange  some  chopped  aspic  jelly  around  the 
base  of  the  border,  cut  some  strips  of  aspic  jelly,  and  place  one  between  each 
little  timbal,  as  shown  in  tlie  engraving.  Fill  the  center  of  the  cup  at  the  top 
of  the  wax  tigure  with  the  same  mixture  that  was  used  for  garnisliing  the  b;ise; 
arrange  some  cliopped  aspic  jelly  around  this  as  a  border,  and  garnish  wi1»li 
strips  of  fresh  tarragon;  then  place  on  the  top  of  each  timbnl  by  means  of  a 
forcing-bag  and  pijie  a  little  stiff  mayonnaise  sauce.  Serve  for  an  entree  or 
ball-supper  disli  or  for  a  cold  '-ollation. 


TIMBAL  A  LA  WINDSOR. 
Timbale  a  la  Windsor. 
Take  a  bomb-mold,  line  it  tliinly  with  aspic  jelly,  and  then  arrange  all  over  it 
sticks  of  cooked  asparagus  that  have  been  ornamented  with  strips  of  Frencli 
chilli  and  little  sprigs  of  chervil  set  on  the  asparagus  witli  a  little  liquid  aspic 
jelly;  set  the  asparagus  with  a  little  more  aspic  to  keep  it  in  place;  then  fill  up 
the  inside  of  the  mold  with  a  puree  of  white  meat,  as  below,  and  put  it  away 
to  get  set;  then  dip  the  mold  into  hot  water,  and  turn  it  out  on  an  entree-dish; 
garnish  around  with  little  blocks  of  aspic  jelly  and  cooked  artichoke  bottoms 


202 


RELISHES. 


that  are  sliced,  also  sliced  raw  tomatoes,  seasoned  with  a  little  niignouette 
pepper,  salad-oil  aud  tarragon  vinegar.  SerAO  for  an  entree,  second-course  or 
luncheon  dish. 

PuKEE  FOR  TiMBAL  A  LA  AViNDSOK.— Take  a  pouud  of  either  cooked  chicken 
or  rabbit;  pound  it  until  smooth,  then  mix  it  with  one  tablespoonful  of  tarragon 
vinegar,  one  half  ounce  of  good  butter,  one  tablespoonful  of  mayonnaise  sauce, 


a  dust  of  pepper,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  thick  bechamel  sa-uce,  and  mix  with 
this  three  fourths  of  a  pint  of  liquid  aspic  jelly:  rub  through  a  tauuny  or  line 
hair-sieve,  then  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  stifily  whipjied  cream,  and  use  when 
beginning  to  set. 

PLOVERS'  EGGS  IN  ASPIC  A  LA  VICTORIA. 
CEufs  de  Plmners  en  Aspic  a  la  Victoria. 
Line  both  parts  of  the  little  egg-molds  with  aspic  jelly.  Cut  some  small  dia- 
mond shapes  from  Avhite  of  hard-boiled  egg,  and  little  rings  from  sliced  truffle; 
arrange  these  in  star  shapes  in  the  tops  of  the  egg-molds,  set  these  with  a  little 
aspic  jelly,  and  garnish  the  molds  all  over  with  little  picked  leaves  of  chervil 
(shreds  of  lettuce  and  tarragon  may  also  be  used):  set  this  garnish  with  a  little 
more  aspic,  place  a  plainly  boiled  plover's  egg  in  the  top  of  each  luold,  fix  the 
two  parts  of  the  mold  together,  and  carefully  fill  up  with  aspic  jelly;  put  them 
aside  on  ice  until  set,  then  turn  out.    Prepare  a  border-mold  in  the  same  manner 


by  lining  it  with  aspic  jelly,  and  garnish  it  with  stars  and  chervil,  etc.,  similar 
to  the  little  molds,  and  fill  up  with  aspic:  when  it  is  set,  turn  out,  and  place  one 
of  the  prepared  eggs  in  each  hollow  of  the  piccolo-border  and  one  in  the  center, 
and  garnish  the  center  round  the  eggs,  and  dish  wilh  chopped  aspic  by  means 
of  a  forcing-bag  and  pipe,  and  blocks  of  foie  gi'as  at  the  corners  of  the  piccolo 
shape,  as  in  the  engraving.  Little  green  tarragon  and  chervil  leaves  may  be 
placed  here  and  there  on  the  garnish. 


RKlAsHEiS. 


2();j 


K(i(;  A  LA  jMII.LAIS. 
<J'Ji(f  (1  Id  M ilia  is. 
''r.'ikc  ji  l;ir«'.'  ('^•^•■iiiold,  .•uid  liiir  l)()tli  hiilvcs  nhoul  oiu*  I'i.niith  of  an  inch  thick 
with  stronj;-  aspic  Jelly.  'V\\v\\  take  four  or  Ih  c  newly  laid  cfifi^,  ivnd  boil  tlicni 
for  eifi'lil  niinutcs.and  when  cold, shell  and  cut  them  into  slic(>s  about  one  fourth 
of  an  incii  tliick.and  place  llieni  on  a  bakinu-tin  or  disii.and  mask  lliem  lifilitly 
over  witli  licjnid  asi)ic  Jelly  to  prevent  them  from  l)i'eakinu'  win  n  beinj;'  arran^ecl 
in  the  mold;  tiien  ornament  tlie  mold  with  these  slices,  ai'ranjrin^  them  to  over- 
lap sti-aii^ht  down,  commencin;;'  In  the  middle  of  the  ntold  and  s;arnishin>;  around 
each  by  means  of  a  forcinj;-ba.i;'  and  a  small,  plain  i)ipe  with  chojiped  trutlle  and 
()x-tonj;»ie  (see  below).  Set  each  layer  of  euj;-  jiiU'i'isb  with  a  little  asi)ic  Jelly  to 
keep  it  in  place;  when  both  halves  of  the  mold  are  covered  with  the  f;arnish, 
till  up  the  inside  of  each  part  with  a  chicken  cream,  as  below,  and  when  abour 
to  close  up  the  mold,  put  into  each  i)art  a!)out  two  tablespoonfuls  of  li(iuid  aspic 
to  join  the  parts  tirndy  together,  and  tie  the  mold  over  with  a  piece  of  broad 
tape,  to  keep  it  closed.  When  ct)l(l,  arrange  some  finely  choi)ped  aspic  jelly  on 
the  dish  on  which  the  ey.ii'  is  to  be  served,  then  dip  the  mold  into  hot  water,  and 
turn  the  e^'ft'  "H  the  chojiped  jelly;  garnish  around  the  ed^-e  with  halves  of 
cooked  artichoke  bottoms  seasoned  with  sahul-oil  and  tarrat^ou  viuef^ar,  and  on 


these  arranso  Ji  mayonnaise  of  cooked  potatoes  (see  recipe),  and  here  and  there 
around  the  dish  place  little  blocks  of  cut  aspic  jelly.  Serve  this  dish  for  a  cohl 
entree  or  for  any  cold  collation.     Knou.i;h  for  six  to  eiicht  persons. 

Tritffi.e  fou  Ecc  a  I. a  :Mii,lais. — Chop  on(>  or  two  trutlles  up  tinely,  and  mix 
them  with  enoufih  licpiid  aspic  jelly  to  (-(jver  tlum;  then  mix  on  ice  until  set, 
put  into  the  forcing-baj;'  with  a  plain  pipe,  and  tise. 

ToNcaTF,  Foit  Eoci  a  la  Milt.ais. — Chop  up  one  ounce  of  lean  cooked  ton.i^ue 
or  ham,  put  it  into  a  little  stew-pan,  Avith  enough  asiiic  jelly  to  cover  it,  and  dis- 
solve; add  a  few  drops  of  carmine  to  give  it  a  brighter  color;  stir  until  set,  and 
then  use. 

CnirKEN'  Cream  fou  Egci  a  i.a  jMiij.ais.— Take  one  fourth  of  a,  pound  of 
cooked  chicken  or  pheasant,  etc.,  ])()und  it  until  snmotli,  an<l  then  mix  it  with 
one  f(mrlh  of  a  pint  of  jiood-tiavored  veloute  sauce  in  wliich  one  fourth  of  an 
ounce  of  gelatin  is  dissolved;  rub  it  tluou.uh  a  hair-sieve,  and  then  mix  it  with 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  cooked  cucund)er  that  has  been  cut  up  into  tiny  dice 
shapes,  and  one  fourth  of  a  pint  of  stitlly  whi])))ed  cream,  two  chopped  T'l-ench 
gherkins  and  one  ounce  of  chopped  lean  ham  or  tongue,  and  stir  on  ice  until  it 
begins  to  set,  then  use. 


^04 


tlELlgHES. 


EGGS   IN  CHAUDFROID  A   lA  BRESSOIRE. 

CEufs  en  Chaudfroid  d,  la  Bressoire. 

Take  some  little  copper  egg-molds,  and  thinly  line  them  Avith  liquid  aspic 

jelly,  garnish  the  top  of  each  mold  with  a  little  round  of  truftle,  and  arrange 

little  diamond  shapes  of  the  same  all  around  it;  place  a  sprig  or  two  of  chervil 

toward  the  bottom  of  the  mold,  and  set  the  garnisli  with  a  little  aspic;  then  line 


the  molds  again  with  aspic  cream,  and  fill  them  up  with  the  ragout;  leave  them 
until  set,  then  dip  each  mold  into  hot  water,  turn  out  the  eggs,  and  dish  tliem 
up  on  a  border  of  aspic  jelly  made  in  a  piccolo-mold;  place  in  the  center  of  the 
border  a  lettuce  salad  (see  recipe)  and  a  little  chopped  aspic  jelly;  arrange 
another  egg  on  top  of  this,  and  serve  for  a  luncheon  or  second-course  dish  or  for 
any  cold  collation. 

Ragout  for  Eggs  in  Chaudfroid  a  la  Beessoike.— Talie  one  half  pint  of 
good-flayored  chiclcen  stock  or  clear  soup  that  is  quite  in  a  jelly  in  strength 
equal  to  aspic,  mix  with  it  one  half  pint  of  stiffly  Avhipped  double  cream,  a  dust 
of  pepper  and  a  little  salt,  one  ounce  of  grated  Parmesan  cheese,  tliree  ounces  of 
finely  minced  cooked  chicken,  two  ounces  of  lean  crooked  ham,  minced,  three 
yolks  of  hard-boiled  eggs  cut  into  tiny  dice  shapes,  and  two  ounces  of  pate  de 
foie  g¥as  that  have  been  rubbed  through  a  sieve;  mix  well,  stir  on  ice  until  it 
begins  to  set,  then  use. 

LITTLE  SWANS  A   LA   PHRYGIENNE. 
Petits  Cygnets  a  la  Phrygienne. 
Line  some  swan-molds  thinly  with  aspic,  and  for  the  bills  put  little  strips  of 
truffle,  also  tiny  rounds  for  the  eyes;  set  these  with  a  little  aspic,  then  line  with 


aspic  cream,  and  fill  up  the  inside  of  the  molds  with  a  puree  as  follows:  For 
eight  or  ten  molds,  take  the  contents  of  a  small  jar  of  pate  de  foie  gras  freed 
from  fat,  and  six  ounces  of  cooked  chicken  that  has  been  pounded  until  quite 
smooth  and  rubbed  through  a  fine  sieve;  mix  these  well  in  the  mortar  and  add 
one  half  pint  of  strong  good-flavored  Avarm  chicken  or  any  light  stock  that 
would  set  into  a  stiff  jelly  when  cold,  and  use  wlien  setting.     Pour  in  a  little 


uelishes.  205 

li(liii(l  aspic  to  sot,  niul  then  closo  iij)  fbc  molds,  and  leave  tluni  on  iee  unlil 
set;  din  each  mold  into  hot  water,  tnrn  ont  the  swans  on  a  clean  cloth,  and  dish 
them  up  on  a  boi<ler  of  finely  chopped  aspic  jelly  that  is  liyhtly  colored  with  a 
little  sap-j;iven;  j>arnish  the  dish  with  little  timbals  ot  tomatoes  and  olives  pre- 
pared as  below,  and  serve  for  any  cold  collation. 

TiMHALS  FOR  LiTTi.E  SwA^s.— Take  soine  tinted  molds,  and  line  half  of  them 
with  li(iuid  aspic  jelly  that  is  colored  with  a  little  carmine;  line  the  other  half 
Avith  liquid  aspic  that  has  been  coloi'ed  a\  ith  sap-green.  P^iU  those  with  the  red 
jelly  with  raw  tomato  that  has  been  sivinned  and  freed  from  pii)s,  seasoned  with 
a  little  finely  chopped  shallot,  tarragon  and  chervil,  and  set  with  more  of  the 
red  jelly.  Those  with  the  green  fill  up  witli  Spanish  olives  that  are  farced  AA'itli 
ham  I)ntter,  using  a  forcing-bag  and  pipe  for  the  purpose,  settinj,-  this  with  more 
of  the  green  jelly;  leave  all  until  set,  then  tiu'u  out,  and  use  as  directed. 

NEW  CARKOTS  A   LA   FRANCAISE. 

Carrotlcs  Nouvelles  ci  la  Francaise. 

Take  some  young  carrots,  wash,  peel,  and  cut  them  into  small  olive  shapes; 

turn  them  with  a  garnishing-knife,  and  put  them  into  cold  water,  with  a  little 

salt;  bring  to  a  boil,  then  strain,  and  dry  the  carrots  in  a  clean  cloth,  and  fry 

them  iu  a  stew-pan  with  a  pat  of  fresh  butter  over  a  steady  fire  for  fifteen  to 


twent.v  minutes;  tlien  add  one  wine-glassful  of  sherry  and  one  fourth  of  a  pint 
of  good-flavored  stock;  bring  this  to  a  boil,  and  coolv  the  carrots  for  about  one 
hour,  occasionaMy  adding  a  little  more  stoclc  as  that  in  the  pan  reduces;  when 
the  carrots  should  present  a  glazed  appearance,  add  to  them  a  tiny  dust  of 
sugar  and  a  few  cooked  shredded  button  mushrooms.  Put  them  into  paste 
cases,  as  below,  ornament  around  the  tops  of  the  cases  with  little  rings  of  the 
same  paste;  dish  on  a  paper  on  a  hot  dish,  and  serve. 

Paste  Cases  for  Carrots  a  la  Francaise.— Rub  one  fourth  of  a  pound  of 
fine  flour  with  two  ounces  of  butter,  a  little  salt  and  cayenne  until  smooth,  then 
mix  in  one  whole  raw  (^'^g.  and  a  little  cream,  making  it  into  a  stiff,  dry  paste; 
roll  this  out  thinly,  and  with  it  line  some  little  tins;  prick  the  paste  well  at  the 
bottom  to  prevent  it  blistering;  line  them  with  a  buttered  kitchen  paper,  and  fill 
up  with  raw  rice;  bake  them  in  a  moderate  oven  until  a  pretty  golden  color  and 
quite  crisp;  then  remove  the  rice  and  papers,  and  use  as  directed  above.  Stamp 
out  some  tiny  rings  of  the  same  paste  with  a  fluted  cutter,  bake  them;  then 
brush  each  over  with  a  very  little  raw  white  of  egg,  sprinkle  them  with  a  little 
chopped  raw  green  parsley,  and  use  for  ornamenting  the  tops  of  the  eases  when 
prepared. 


2oe 


feELtSHEg; 


ECr.AIRS   A   LA   PA  I.MERSTON; 

Eclairs  a  la  Palnierstoii. 
Put  into  a  .stew-pan  one  half  pint  of  water,  four  ounces  of  butter,  a  dust  of 
pepper  and  a  ^•ood  pineh  of  salt;  let  this  boil,  then  mix  in  five  ounces  of  tine 
flour,  and  cook  on  the  side  of  the  stove  for  ten  minutes,  stirring-  it  occasionally; 
remove  it  from  the  stove,  and  let  the  mixture  cool  a  little,  then  add  by  degrees 
three  whole  raw  eggs,  working  the  paste  quickly  with  a  wooden  spoon.  When 
it  is  quite  smooth,  add  two  large  tablespoonfnls  of  grated  Parmesan  cheese, 
mix  up  Avell,  put  the  paste  into  a  forcing-bag  with  a  plain  pipe,  and  force  it  out 
onto  a  greased  baking-tin  in  lengths  of  about  three  inches  by  one  inch,  as  shown 


in  the  design;  brush  them  over  M-ith  Avhole  beaten-up  Qg2:,  and  bake  in  a  mod- 
erate oven  for  about  twenty-three  minutes;  then  remove,  and  cut  them  long- 
ways, and  fill  them  up  by  means  of  a  forcing-bag  and  pipe  with  whipped  cream; 
dish  them  up  in  a  pile  on  a  dish-paper  or  napkin.  Serve  hot  or  cold  for  luncheon 
or  dinner  savory. 

SOUFFLE  A  LA  MARGUERITE. 
Souffle  H  la  Marguerite. 
Take  a  large  paper  case  about  six  inches  in  diameter,  and  surround  it  with 
a  buttered  paper  to  stand  about  two  inches  above  the  paper  case,  using  a  little 
sealing-wax  to  fix  the  paper  band;  take  half  a  sheet  ot  foolscap,  make  it  into  a 
cylinder  about  three  inches  in  diameter,  also  using  a  little  sealing-wax  to  hold 
it,  and  stand  it  in  the  center  of  the  souffle-case.  Take  four  large  tomatoes,  peel 
them,  and  remove  the  pips,  and  pass  them  through  the  tammy;  to  this  puree  add 
one  half  pint  of  aspic  .ielly  while  liquid,  a  few  drops  of  carmine  and  about  one 
tablespoonful  of  tarragon  vinegar;  well  Avhip  these  together  until  spongy,  then 


RELISHES. 


207 


add  Ji  good  hall"  pint  of  wliipixd  cri-aiu.  half  a  hw^v  breast  of  finely  chopped 
chicken  and  three  or  fonr  finely  chopped  .small  tintties;  when  well  mixed,  ponr 
this  into  the  papered  case  between  the  two  paper  bands,  and  put  it  aside  to  set. 
Take  half  a  pint  of  whipped  cream,  season  with  u  liitle  finely  chopped  tarragon 
and  chervil,  one  salt-.spoouful  of  mignonette  pepper,  a  dust  of  pepper,  a  pinch  of 
salt,  one  .small  or  half  a  large  breast  of  shredded  chicken,  two  or  three  chopped 
truffles,  four  large  or  six  small  chopped  mushrooms  and  some  shredded  tongue 
in  quantity  about  the  same  amount  as  tlie  chicken,  four  or  five  shredded  cocks- 
combs and  a  fourth  of  a  pint  of  aspic  jelly  while  li(iuid;  nnx  all  well,  and  pour 
the  mixture  into  the  cylinder  of  foolscap,  so  as  to  stand  one  and  one  half  to  two 
inches  higher  than  the  mixture  already  between  the  tAvo  pai^er  l)auds;  place  the 
souffle  in  an  ice-cave  or  sontih^-case  surrounded  with  ice  and  salt  for  about 
one  hour;   when   ready,   take   it   out,   remove   the   pai)er   bands,   sprinkle   .some 


chopped  truffle  over  the  higher  and  inner  part,  and  garnish  the  outer  part  witli 
little  bunches  of  chervil.  The  outer  ring  sliould  stand  one  and  one  half  to  two 
inches  higher  than  the  soufHe-case,  and  should  be  of  a  pale  reddish  color,  the 
inner  and  higher  part  being  whitish.  Disli  on  a  disli-paper  or  napkin.  Instead 
of  the  cylinder  of  paper  in  which  the  second  mixture  is  poured,  a  jar  could  be 
used  at  first,  but  the  jar  would  have  ro  be  removed  and  a  cylinder  of  paper 
substituted  when  the  se<'ond  mixture  is  ready  to  be  poured  in. 

CREAM   A    L'lXDIENNE. 
(  r(>me  a  V Tndicvnr. 

Ijine  a  large  egg-mold  with  aspic  jelly,  and  ornament  it  witli  truffle,  shreds 
of  white  of  hard-boiled  eii:';::,  French  red  chilli  and  French  giierkin;  set  this 
garnish  with  more  jelly,  and  line  the  mold  completely  with  aspic  cream;  fill  uit 
the  mold  with  a  cream,  as  below;  put  aside  until  set,  then  dip  the  mold  into 
hot  water  and  turn  out  the  egg  onto  a  bed  of  chopped  aspic  (ui  an  entree-dish; 
arrange  around  the  egg  some  small  eggs  prepared  as  below,  and  between  each 
of  these  place  a  little  finely  chopped  aspic,  and  garnish  the  eggs  Avith  small 
liatelet  skewers.  Serve  for  an  entree  for  dinner  or  luncheon  or  for  any  cold 
collation. 

Cream  for  Mold  for  Cream  a  l'Indien>e.— Take  half  a  pound  of  cold  cooked 
chiclven,  half  a  pound  of  lean  coolced  ham  and  one  ounce  of  fresh  butter;  po\ind 


208 


RELISHES. 


((i.^cllicr  imlil  iiiiiU'  snioolli,  tluMi  mix  il  wiUi  one  luilf  pint  of  s:nu'c,  :is  l)i'l()\v, 
juhI  rub  iill  llu-ou.uli  :i  Inniniy  or  liur  hnir-siovo;  mix  with  ouv  t'oiirtli  of  :i  pint  ol" 
stitlly  whipped  ciwim,  nnd  pour  into  tlu-  mold. 

Savce  for  CiuoAM  A  i/l NniKNNK.— Cul  up  four  pcolod  ouious  into  littlo  diw 
shiipos,  nnd  put  tluMU  into  a  stow-pan.  with  ono  onnco  of  tiood  buttor.  two  hay- 
k-avos  and  a  sprij;-  of  tliymo;  fry  until  a  nhv  .uoldon  color;  thou  nux  with  one 


toaspoouful  of  cliutuoy,  ono  choppod  oaiisionm,  one  dessert-spoonful  of  tnni- 
ariuds.  one  teaspoonful  of  earry  past(\  one  dessert  spoonful  of  exu'ry-powder. 
one  teaspoonfid  of  tm-merie.  the  juiee  of  one  larse  lemon,  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
jiTated  fresh  eoeoanut,  one  salt-spooufnl  of  salt  and  one  ounee  ol'  .ulaee;  mix  with 
one  pint  of  white  stock,  one  wine-.nlassful  of  sherry  and  the  same  of  white  wine, 
then  simmer  until  tender;  dissolve  it  in  one  fourth  of  an  ounee  of  y-elatin, 
tammy,  and  use. 

Smai.i.  Eiuis  von  (Iakmsu.— Line  some  little  ep;s-molds  with  aspic  .iedy,  fill 
up  Mith  coolved  veji-etables.  and  pour  iu  some  aspic  jelly.  AVhen  this  is  set,  dip 
into  hot  wat(>r,  turn  out,  and  us(>.  ' 

AKTICIIOKES,  PLAIN. 
^-1  rtie/ia ids,  Naiurrls. 
Trim  the  tops,  and  cut  otf  the  stalks  evenly  of  sonu-  nice  fresh  artichokes,  put 
them  into  cold  water,  with  a  little  salt,  and  let  them  remain  in  this  for  two  or 


three  hours;  then  put  them  into  plenty  of  slijihtly  salted  boiling-  water,  and  let 
them  simmer  uently  for  fifty  to  sixty  niiuiites;  then  take  them  up  with  a  slice, 
drain  them  on  a  clean  hair-sieve,  place  them  on  a  hot  dish  on  a  jiaper  or  napkin, 
and  serve  for  a  second-course  vegetable  or  for  breakfast  or  for  luncheon,  either 
as  a  hot  or  cold  dish,  with  mayonnaise  sauce  handed  in  a  sauce-boat. 


(.'iiAi'i'KK  xir. 


S;ilii(ls  should  l)t>  sci-vcd  llic  djiy  tlicy  iirc  i)rci)!irc(l. 

Ill  iisiii^ oil  iis  n  iiii.\liii"<',  nla'.i.vs  use  il  hcforc  iiuniii;^  in  tlic  vincjiMi',  to  iivoid 
(•UI•dli^;,^     'riii-ii  -.mI^]  (lie  \iiic;;;ii-,  stirriiip-  :ill  IIk-  liiiic. 

.Melted  l)iit  ler  cji  ii  l)e  sul)st  it  iite<l  if  oil  is  dis;i^i'e<';il)ie,  or  the  I'iit  risiu^i'  to  the 
siii-|';ice  in  hoiliiiji'  your  fowl. 

Ise  the  best  olive-oil,  jilwnys. 

V('K<'1Jil)le  s;iliids  should  he  stirred  only  lifiiitiy  witji  ;i  t'oi-k,  .iiid  n<'ver  i);iel<ed. 

To  frin^(>  celery,  cut  it  into  pieces  1  wo  inciies  lonj;,  stick  severjil  needles  into 
ji  coi'k,  iind  conil)  the  celery  with  it,  or  si)lif  it  down  into  severnl  itnrls  with  n 
sharp  knife.  Tin'ow  into  cold  water  to  curl.  'I'liis  is  a  very  appelizin;,'  relish, 
also,  with  vineyar,  pepper  and  salt. 

Always  use  a  woo<h'n  spoon  or  foi'k  t<.  stir  salad. 

If  fresh  celery  cannot  he  had.  use  celery-seed  to  flavor  your  salads. 

All  lobster  salad  should  he  eaten  as  soon  as  i)ossihle  after  tlie  <lressinK  is 
added,  else  it  becomes  unwhoh'sonie. 

A\'hen  canned  lol)stcr  is  used,  open  a  few  hours  befoie  usin;:.  to  allow  tlie 
♦•onfined  odor  to  i)ass  away. 

Kings  made  of  the  whites  of  hard-luiiled  eggs,  laid  around  the  dish  (»n  small 
lettuce-leaves,  garnish  a  dish  of  salad  nicely. 

209 


210  SALADS. 

CHICKKN  SALAD. 
One  finely  chopped  boiled  chicken,  one  head  of  cabbage  and  an  equal  amount 
of  finely  chopped  celery,  the  whites  of  twelve  hard-boiled  eggs  chopped  with  it. 
Take  the  yolks  and  rub  them  fine,  then  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  one 
tablespoonful  of  butter,  one  tablespoonful  of  mustard,  one  cupful  of  cider  vin- 
egar; mix  it  all,  and  serve. 

Mrs.  D.  R.  Connell,  North  Levvisburgh,  Ohio. 

CHICKEN  SALAD. 
9  eggs,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar, 

Vi  pound  of  butter  or  1  teaspoonful  of  black  pepper, 

1  teacupful  of  olive-oil,  3  cold  cooked  chickens  or 

1  teacupful  of  vinegar,  1  medium-sized  turkey, 

4  tablespoonfuls  of  mixed  mustard,  2  or  3  bimches  of  celery. 

Beat  the  eggs  well,  adding  all  the  ingredients  but  the  chicken  and  celery; 
put  it  into  a  kettle  to  cook,  stirring  it  all  the  time  until  it  cooks  almost  as  thick 
as  mush;  when  cold,  add  one  half  cupful  of  strong  vinegar,  and  pour  the  dress- 
ing over  the  chicken  and  celery  chopped  together  and  salted  to  suit  the  taste; 
mix  well,  leaving  out  enough  dressing  to  coA'er  the  top. 
Mrs.  Cai'rie  Bell,  Eiiiiuenoe,  Kentucky. 

HAM  SALAD. 
Chop  fine  the  remains  of  a  boiled  ham;  add  the  heart  and  inside  leaves  of  a 
head  of  lettuce;  pour  ovei-  it  a  dressing  made  as  follows: 

1  tablespoonful  of  salt,  1  teaspoonful  of  mustard, 

1  tablespoonful  of  butter,  %  pint  of  vinegar, 

1  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  1  teaspoonful  of  pepper, 

The  yolks  of  three  Avell-beaten  eggs. 
Boil  until  it  creams;  Avhen  cold,  pour  over  the  ham  and  lettuce,  and  mix  well; 
lastly  stir  in  a  cupfid  of  sweet  cream. 
Mrs.  Van  Cartinell,  Springfield,  Ohio. 

SALMON  SALAD. 
Four  hard-boiled  eggs,  the  yollis  of  two  rubbed  fine,  and  mixed  with  one  raw 
yolk,  a  pinch  of  sugar,  salt  and  mustard  (a  teaspoonful  of  made  mustard  will 
do),  one  half  teaspoonful  of  melted  butter,  one  half  teaspoonful  of  vinegar.  If 
not  sour  enough,  use  more  vinegar.  Chop  salmon  or  cliicken  fine;  also  the  same 
quantity  of  celery  or  Avhite  cabbage;  mix  Avell,  and  just  before  using,  pour  the 
mixture  over. 

Mrs.  Robert  Picliett,  Fair  Haven,  Ohio. 

SALMON  SALAD. 
Open  the  can,  drain  off  all  the  oil,  fill  the  can  Avith  vinegar,  and  set  in  a  pan 
of  boiling  water,  to  ronain  an  hour;  drain  off  all  the  liquor,  and  set  in  a  cool 
place.  Dressing:  I'o  one  can  of  salmon  beat  tAA'o  eggs  until  very  light;  pour 
OA^er  them  half  a.  teacupful  of  boiling  A'inegar,  and  set  OA^er  the  fire  until  it 
thickens;  add  a  teaspoonful  of  butter,  some  mustard  and  cayenne  pepper,  set 
aAAay  to  cool.  When  ready  for  the  table,  add  five  tablespoonfuls  of  SAveet 
cream,  and  dress  with  lettuce. 

H.  F.  C  ,  College  Hill,  Ohio. 


Salads,  211 

T.OBSTEK  SAr;AI). 

P\n  )i  lars'e  lobster  ovei'  the  tire  in  boiliiii;-  wjiter  sligiitly  salted;  boil  rapidly 
for  al)out  twenty  niniutes;  \\  hen  done,  it  will  be  of  a  bright  red  color,  and 
shoTdd  be  removed,  for  if  boiled  too  lous^  it  will  be  tough;  when  cold,  crack  the 
claws,  after  first  disjointing,  twist  off  the  head  (which  is  used  in  garnishing), 
split  the  body  in  two  lengthwise,  pick  out  the  meat  in  liits  not  too  fine,  saving 
the  coral  separate;  cut  up  a  large  head  of  lettuce  slightly,  .uid  place  on  a  dish, 
over  which  lay  the  lobster,  putting  the  coral  around  the  outside.  For  dressing, 
take  the  yolks  of  three  eggs,  bont  Avell.  add  four  tabh^spooiifnls  of  salad-oil. 
dropping  it  in  very  slowly,  beating  all  the  tim(>;  then  add  a  little  salt,  cayenne 
pepper,  one  half  teaspoonful  of  mixed  mustard  and  two  tables]ioonfuls  of  vin- 
egar; pour  this  over  the  lobster  just  before  sending  to  the  table. 

LOBSTER  SALAD. 

One  can  of  lobsters;  press  out  the  juice,  and  chop  (not  too  fine).  Boil  five 
eggs  until  hard,  and  let  them  cool;  rub  the  yolks  to  a  jelly,  and  add  to  the 
lobster;  then  add  the  chopped  whites.     Make  a  dressing  of 

2  beaten  eggs,  1  tal)lespoonful  of  olive-oil, 

1  small  tablespoonful  of  mustard,  1  cupful  of  vinegar, 

^2  teaspoonful  of  black  pepper.  Butter  half  the  size  of  an  egg, 

y-2,  teaspoonful  of  cayenne  pepper,  A  iiinch  of  salt. 

Put  on  the  stove,  and  stir  until  it  thickens;  when  cool,  put  over  the  lobster. 
Grace  E.  MiUar,  Lancaster,  New  York. 

FISH  SALAD. 

Take  cold  fish  left  from   dinner;  remove  all  bones,   and   separate  in  small 
pieces  with  two  forks;  pour  over,  and  mix  it  well  witli  the  following  sauce: 
1  Avell-beaten  egg,  1  tablespoonful  of  mixed  mustard, 

1  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  3  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar. 

Small  piece  of  butter. 
Let  it  boil  just  to  a  cream,  then  pour  over  the  tisli  and  some  lettuce-leaves 
chopped  fine  and  well  mixed.  Arrange  small  lettuce-leaves  nicel.A'  upon  a  platter, 
and  put  a  large  spoonful  of  the  salad  upon  each  leaf.  Cut  hard-boiled  eggs  into 
slices,  and  lay  one  upon  each  leaf.  In  serving,  just  slip  the  leaf  and  contents  off 
upon  the  plate. 

OYSTER  SALAD. 

Cold  stewed  oysters  make  a  very  nice  salad  if  combined  with  cut  celery,  and 
laid  upon  fresli  lettuce-leaves,  with  a  salad  dressing  laid  upon  each  leafful,  a 
spoonful  to  each  leaf. 

EGG  AND  CHEESE  SALAD. 

Slice  a  dozen  hard-boiled  eggs,  and  put  a  layer  of  eggs  into  the  dish;  grate 
on  a  thick  covering  of  cheese,  then  another  layer  of  eggs,  alternating  with  the 
cheese  until  the  eggs  are  used  iip;  sprinkle  over  the  top  a  few  capers  and  finely 
chopped  pickles;  pour  over  it  mayonnaise  sauce,  and  again  cover  with  grated 
cheese. 

Mr.«.  J.  S.  Crowell,  Springfield,  Ohio, 


^12 


SALADSv 


POTATO  SALAD. 


one  quart  of  cold  potatoes,  sliced  very  thin,  one  half  ctipfiil  of  oliv-e-oil,  one 
tablespoonful  of  hnely  minced  parsley^  one  tablespoonful  of  cIiopi)ed  onion,  one 
level  teaspoonful  of  salt,  scant  salt-spoonful  of  wliite  pepper,  a  few  grains  of 
cayenne  or  a  few  drops  of  celery  pepper;  shalvc  tlie  salt  and  pepper  ov(>r  tlie 
potatoes,  and  stir  lightly  so  as  not  to  break  them,  then  pour  over  the  oil.  and 
lightly  stir  again,  then  the  onion,  then  one  half  teaspoonful  of  mustard  mixed 
with  three  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar,  lastly  the  parsley.  Very  nice  if  mixed  in 
the  order  given. 

Miss  Emily  E.  Squire,  Author  of  "  Woronoco  Women's  Wisdom,"  Westfield,  Mass. 

IRISH-rOTATO   SALAD. 

Boil  six  potatoes  until  very  soft;  peel,  and  mash  them  while  hot;  season  to 
taste  with  salt,  pepper  and  spice;  add  one  tablespoonful  of  butter.  Boil  two 
rggs,  and  dissolve  the  jolks  in  two  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar;  pour  it  over  the 
potatoes,  and  mix  well;  put  them  on  a  plate.  Slice  the  wliites  of  the  eggs  in 
circles,  and  place  over  the  potatoes. 

Lidie  Roberts,  Picltens  Station,  Mississippi. 

TOMATO  SALAD. 

T'v\'elve  medium-sized  tomatoes,  peeled  and  sliced,  four  hard-boiled  eggs,  one 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  teaspoonful  of  Avhite  sugar,  t^^o  teaspoonfuls  of  made 
mustard,  one  raw  Avell-beaten  egg,  one  half  teaspoonful  of  cayenne  pepper,  one 
tablespoonful  of  salad-oil.  one  teacupful  of  vinegar.  Rub  the  yolks  to  a  smootli 
paste,  adding  by  degrees  the  salt,  pepper,  sugar,  mustard  and  oil;  beat  tlie  raw 
egg  to  a  froth,  and  stir  in  lastly  the  vinegar;  peel  the  tomatoes,  slice  them  one 
fourth  of  an  inch  thick,  and  set  the  dish  on  ice  while  the  dressing  is  being  made. 
After  the  dressing  is  mixed,  stir  in  lumps  of  ice  until  it  is  very  cold;  then  take  it 
out  and  pour  it  over  the  tomatoes.    Set  it  on  the  ice  until  ready  to  serve. 

ONION  SALAD. 

Take  cold  biscuit  or  light-bread  crumbs,  put  into  the  stove,  and  let  remain 
until  quite  brittle;  then  run  through  a  sieve.  To  two  teacupfuls  of  crumbs  add 
two  small. finely  cut  onions.  Have  ready  four  liard-boiled  eggs;  cut  up  the  whites 
of  two  eggs,  and  mix  Avith  the  crumbs;  pour  on  two  tablespoonfuls  of  melted 
butter;  season  witli  vinegar,  black  pepper  and  salt;  add  lukewarm  water  enough 
to  work  up  smooth;  then  put  into  a  glass  dish,  and  press  down  smooth.  Take  the 
yolks  of  the  eggs,  and  press  through  the  sieve,  letting  it  fall  on  the  salad  until  it 
is  entirely  covered  by  it;  take  the  two  whites,  and  cut  into  rings  and  half  circles. 
and  place  about  over  the  top.  A  few  parsley-leaves  put  on  top  add  to  its  appear- 
ance. 

Mrs.  D.  F.  Gaston,  Boiling  Springs,  Virginia. 

BEET  SALAD. 

Boil  until  tender  three  good-sized  beets,  skin  them,  and  chop  up  fine;  also 
chop  fine  a  small  head  of  cabbage;  mix  them,  add  enough  salt  to  season,  one  half 
cupful  of  sugar,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  mustard,  and  cover  all  with  cold  vinegar. 


BALADS.  21 3 

CKLEUY   SALAD. 

i  hanl-boiied  e^^,  %  teaspoonful  of  salt, 

1  raw  oiiti,  Vj  t('as))()<)nful  of  iM'ppcr, 

1  tabh'Spoonful  of  olivo-oil,  4  tal)l(>si)oonfuls  of  viiu'.i;ar. 

1  teaspoonful  of  white  sugar,  1  teaspoonful  of  made  mustard, 

4  large  buuche.s  of  celer3\ 
Cut  the  celery  into  half-inc-h  pieces;  ruli  the  cooIumI  egg  to  a  smootJi  paste; 
add  the  salt,  sugar,  pepper,  mustard  and  oil;  beat  tlie  raw  egg  to  a  frotli,  and  stir 
in;  tlien  add  the  vinegar  last;  mix  tliis  well  witii  the  celery,  and  serve  at  once. 
i)r  tlie  vinegar  will  spoil  tlie  celery. 

LETTUCE  S.VLAD. 

Cut  four  or  five  nice  heads  of  lettuce;  salt  it,  and  let  it  stand  one  half  hour; 
tlien  add  to  the  lettuce  the  powdered  yolks  of  four  hard-boiled  eggs,  one  lialf 
teaspoonful  of  mustard  and  one  half  teaspoonful  of  pepper;  add  a  small  piece  of 
melted  butter.  Heat  one  half  pint  of  vinegar,  and  pour  over;  mix  all,  and 
garnish  the  dish  with  the  whites  of  the  eggs. 
May  Frey,  Bucyrus,  Ohio. 

SALSIFY  SAT,\D. 

Boil  the  salsify  until  perfectly  tender,  drain  it,  and  ^-ut  it  into  inch  lengths; 
put  it  on  a  dish,  and  pour  over  it  any  simple  salad  dressing,  or  t<)ss  it  up  ligiitly 
with  oil,  vinegar,  salt,  pepper  and  cliopped  ravigole.  Garnish  as  fancy  dictates. 
Time  to  boil  the  salsify,  one  lunii-. 

SALSIFY  IX  SALAD  OR  ASPIC. 

Take  salsifies  enough  to  fill  a  mold  of  the  size  of  the  dish,  then  boil  them  in 
the  same  way  as  the  others;  drain,  and  cut  them  the  length  of  the  mold;  dress 
tliem  like  a  chartreuse,  din  tlvMu  into  a  little  aspic  to  stick  them  together  all 
around  the  mold,  and  fill  tlie  middle  with  a  salad  of  small  bits  of  salsifies  all  the 
same  size;  then  season  witli  salt,  pepper,  a  little  oil,  vinegar  and  aspic;  also  put 
in  some  very  finely  chopped  parsley;  toss  the  whole,  and  put  it  into  the  mold  into 
ice.  At  dinner,  dip  a  rul)ber  into  liot  water,  rub  the  mold  all  around  with  it,  and 
turn  the  salad  out  on  the  dish  to  serve  up.  If  j'ou  can  procure  a  few  very  green 
French  beans,  they  will  make  the  salad  appear  better;  while  haricot  beans  are 
likewise  very  useful. 

ARTICHOKE  SALAD. 

Wash  thoroughly  and  quarter  some  very  young  artichokes;  remove  the  chokes, 
and  eat  them  like  radishes,  with  pepper,  salt,  vinegar  and  oil.  They  taste  like 
nuts,  and  make  a  nice  relish.    Time  to  prepare,  ten  minutes. 

STRAWBERRY  SALAD. 

Select  the  heart-leaves  of  head-lettuce,  arrange  four  leaves,  the  stems  crossed, 
heap  a  few  strawberries  in  the  center  of  the  leaves,  dust  lightly  with  powdered 
sugar.  Lay  one  teaspoonful  of  mayonnaise  dressing  on  each  portion,  serve  with 
a  bit  of  freshly  cut  lemon  on  each.    Very  delicious  for  lunch. 

Miss  Emily  K.  Squire,  Author  of  "  Woronoco  Women's  Wisdom,"  Westfleld,  Mass. 


214  Salads?. 

Dressing  for  chicken  salad. 

Put  three  Well-beaten  eggs  over  the  fire,  with  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a! 
hen's  egg,  one  teaeupful  of  strong  vinegar,   one  tablespoonful  of  home-made 
mustard,  salt  and  pepper  to  suit  the  taste. 
M.  L.  Hann,  Welliugton,  Kansas. 

SALAD  DRESSING. 

3  eggs,  the  yolks,  3  tablespoonfuls  of  olive-oil, 

3  teaspoonfuls  of  mixed  mustard,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  salt, 

3  tablespoonfuls  of  white  sugar,  1  dessert-spoonful  of  flour. 

Mix  this  well,  and  pour  it  into  a  teaeupful  of  boiling  vinegar;  let  it  cook  until 
it  thickens,  stirring  all  the  time. 

CREAM  DRESSING  FOR  A  PINT  OF  COLD  SLAW. 

Two  tablespoonfuls  of  whipped  sv^^eet  cream,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  and 
four  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar.  Beat  well,  and  pour  over  the  cabbage  previously 
cut  fine  and  seasoned  with  salt. 

Mary  A.  Smith,  Mentor,  Oliio. 

MAYONNAISE  DRESSING. 

Beat  a  raw  egg,  Avith  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  until  it  is  thoroughly  smooth; 
add  one  teaspoonful  of  mixed  mustard,  made  thicker  than  usual;  wlien  smooth, 
add  (a  little  at  a  time)  half  a  pint  of  olive-oil;  rub  smooth  to  a  thick  paste,  then 
dilute  with  vinegar  until  the  consistency  of  thick  cream.  This  sauce  keeps  well 
if  bottled,  and  corked  with  a  glass  stopper,  and  may  be  made  in  advance  when 
yolks  are  left  over  from  baking.    This  is  very  nice  on  cold  sliced  tomatoes. 

SWEET  SLAW. 

Cut  the  cabbage  fine,  then  take  sufMcient  strong  vinegar,  sweeten  it,   and 
season  with  salt  and  pepper;  add  sweet  cream  enough  to  make  it  nice  and  thick; 
pour  it  over  the  cabbage,  and  set  away  in  a  cool  place  for  several  hours. 
Lewisburg,  Ohio. 

WARM  SLAW. 

2  eggs,  the  yolks,  1  cupful  of  vinegar, 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  sour  cream. 

Butter  the  size  of  a  walnut. 

Boil  this  all  together,  and  pour  over  finely  cut  cabbage;  then  serve. 
Mrs.  Louisa  Ash,  Mount  Vernon,  Ohio. 

COLD  SLAW. 

1  head  of  cabbage,  cut  fine,  One  teaspoonful  of  celery-seed, 

1  egg,  A  little  flour, 

1  teaeupful  of  vinegar,  Salt  to  suit  the  taste. 

Butter  the  size  of  a  hickory-nut. 
Sprinkle  the  flour,  salt  and  celery-seed  over  the  cabbage;  warm  the  vinegar 
and  butter  in  a  skillet;  put  the  cabbage  into  it;  beat  the  egg,  and  pour  it  over 
all;  mix  well,  and  cook  two  minutes.    Let  it  get  cold  before  serving. 

A.  M.  Harriet,  Henry  Clay,  Delaware. 


Chapter  XIII, 


To  be  a  good  pie-baker  can  only  be  aeeomplisLed  by  continual  practice.  One 
may  take  the  best  recipe  and  fail;  but  do  not  let  this  discourage  you. 

The  secret  of  making  good  pies  is  to  use  as  little  water  as  possible  to  get  the 
dough  into  shape. 

Put  a  cupful  of  lard  to  a  quart  of  flour  and  a  teaspoonful  of  salt.  This 
should  make  foiu*  crusts,  either  two  pies  with  covers  or  four  without.  Work 
the  lard  into  the  flour  with  your  fingers  until  it  is  thoroughly  mixed  througli 
before  adding  the  water,  then  only  a  little,  and  press  the  dougli  together  haril, 
then  tiu'n  out  on  a  well-floured  board,  and  roll  only  one  way. 

The  under  crust  should  be  a  little  the  thickest. 

If  it  is  a  fruit  pie,  dust  a  little  flour  on  the  bottom  before  putting  your  fruit 
in;  and  in  making  pies  of  fresh  fruit,  put  your  sugar  in  the  bottom. 

When  you  make  a  pie  Avithout  an  upper  crust,  it  is  always  desirable  to  have 
a  very  heavy  edge;  make  this  by  wetting  the  edge  and  laying  on  a  narrow  strii); 
pinch  it  up  together,  or  when  cutting  the  crust  around  the  edge  of  the  pan. 
hold  the  knife  well  under  the  outer  edge  of  t)ie  pan,  and  pinch  it  betAveen  the 
thumb  and  finger  right  on  top  of  tlie  pan. 

A  rolling-pin  is  best  not  Avashed;  sci'ape  the  dough  off  well,  and  rub  Avith  a 
dry  toAvel.  In  this  case  it  will  ahvays  by  dry,  and  if  Avell  floured,  it  will  never 
stick. 

In  Avarm  weather  keep  the  paste  on  ice  until  AA^anted  to  bake.  It  improA'es 
pastry  very  much  to  lie  on  ice  a  couple  of  hours  before  using. 

Puff  paste  should  always  be  made  of  sAveet,  solid  butter. 


216  PIES    AND    rrODINGS. 

A  \vt>ll-l)t>;iti>n  i\^-,i;-  rubbed  with  m  bit  of  cloth  over  the  lower  ernst  of  i)ies  will 
lirt>vent   tlH>  juict*  from  sonkinn'  ihrou,i;'h  it. 

■I'he  juice  oi'  fruit  pies,  if  thickeiiod  witli  a  level  teaspoouful  of  coru-st;uvli 
to  Ji  pie.  will  not  boil  over. 

Always  beat  e.a.irs  separately. 

If  a  mohl  is  used  for  boiliuii-  puddi.iiis.  be  sure  to  have  it  Avell  jireased. 

A  baji-  or  cloth  should  be  wruni;-  out  ol"  hot  water  and  Avell  floured. 

In  boilinji"  puddiuiis,  always  put  them  into  boiling-  Avater. 

Boile<l  and  steauied  puddinjis  retpiire  nearly  twice  as  much  time  as  baked. 

AVheu  a  puddiu.^-  is  boiUnl  iu  a  uiold.  take  it  froui  tlie  w.-ifer.  aud  pluu.si'e  it 
imnuHliatt>ly  iuto  cold  water,  theu  luru  it  out  iuuuediately :  this  will  prevent  it 
stit'kin.ii-. 

Puuipkin  Hour  can  be  had  .at  any  j^rocery.  which  makes  as  nice  pies  as  the 
fresh  pumpkin,  with  less  trouble,  and  full  directions  are  on  each  box. 

It  is  well  in  all  cooking-  to  take  advanta.ge  of  all  the  modern  improvements; 
oftentimes  agents  bring  things  to  your  door  that  cannot  be  had  at  the  stores;  if 
you  see  it  is  going  to  be  useful  to  you,  it  is  well  to  providi*  it.  as  wlieu  you  w.-inr 
it  you  ma.^-  be  unable  to  tind  if. 

In  baking  pics  tlic  tiuu>  of  cooi<ing  varies,  .-ilso  the  heat  of  the  i)vi>u:  wlier(> 
gri'en-appU>  pie  taki^s  from  thirt.\-  \o  forty  minutes,  a  v\c\\  lemon  pie  would  take 
only  about  twenty. 

A  very  flaky,  nice  pie-dough  is  made  by  adding  a  level  half  teaspoonfnl  of 
baking-powder  to  a  quart  of  flour,  in  A\hich  case  lessen  the  quantity  of  short- 
ening. 

Some  always  grease  tlitMr  pie-i>ar.s:  this  is  the  safest  if  the  pie  is  to  be 
riMuoved  to  a  plate  bcfort^  imtiing  on  tlie  table.  Others  only  dust  the  pan  with 
flom-.    One's  oavu  experience  must  be  the  .indge  which  is  the  best  Avay. 

A  marble  slab  is  very  desirable  to  have,  as  it  keeps  the  dough  cold  and  lirui— 
in  fact,  it  is  abnost  impossible  to  m;ike  puff  paste  without  it. 

PIE-CIU'ST. 

One  lu>;ipiug  teaspoonfnl  ol'  baking-powder,  two  quarts  of  flour,  one  teacupfnl 
ol'  lard,  two  teacnpfuls  of  water,  a  pinch  of  s;ill:  )nix  well,  and  sift  a  little  flour 
on  tlic  molding-board  before  rolling  it  out.  This  v>  ill  make  enough  crust  for  four 
or  tive  pies, 

Mrs.  W.  K.  Broir;;liton,  rronsen.  Aliehisan. 

:mus,  K,-y  riE-CKrs'i\ 

4  t'upfuls  of  riinu-.  1  ctutfid  of  water. 

2  cupfuls  of  butter  and  lard  mixed.  A  pinch  of  salt. 

This  makes  enotigh  dough  for  fotu-  pies. 

PIE-SHELLS. 

^lake  a  rich  pie-crust,  and  line  the  pans  or  ohl  saucers;  prick  tliem  with  a 
fork,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven;  ptit  them  into  a  croik  or  bread-box.  and  when 
needed.  All  with  craitbervy  sauce,  apple  sauce  or  any  canned  frtiit  yon  may  have 
open.  Another  way  to  use  them  is  to  make  a  custard  of  any  kind,  put  one  of  the 
shells  iuto  a  pie-pan.  All  it  witli  tlie  custard,  and  bake.  These  are  convenient  to 
have  in  case  of  unexpected  company. 


I'lKK    ANl)    l'ri)l)lN(;S. 


^21' 


Ai'i'ij;  I'll:. 

TmUc  ripe  Mpplcs  lli.-it  will  Icikc  well,  <-iil  into  li.-ilvc^,  .-iikI  core;  Him-  :i  p.-iii 
with  ciusl  ;is  for  jiiiy  pic;  tlicii  pliicc  in  the  npplos  nniii<[  side  ddwii.  .M.mUc  :i 
piislc  of  siij;;ir,  bultcr  .•iiul  luitnic;;-,  lill  tlio  euros  of  tlu'  uppK'S,  and  hake  to  a  lij;lit 
brown. 

A.  M.,  (irooiivillo,  Virginia. 

(iUEEN-AITLIO  IMIO. 
IN'cI  and  core  moderately  tai'l  and  ripe  apples,  cnt  them  into  very  thin  slices; 
lill  the  nnder  crust,  and  put  a.  small  tcacui»l'nl  oi'  brown  sui^ar  over  it;  add  one 
half  tcacnpfnl  of  hot  water  and  a  little  llotn-  dnstcd  over  all;  add  the  >i]tper  crust, 
and  baki'  in  a  moderate  oven  about  forty  minutes.  Never  use  sweet  apples  for 
pies. 

SLK'lOn-AI'ri.lO    IMIO. 

Line  your  plate  with  paste,  and  to  each   pic  allow  one  cupful  of  sunar,  one 

half  lemon,  ajjples,  jx'cled,  sliced  and  cored;  pu!   a   layer  of  tart,  juicy  ajtitlcs, 

then  su.uai',  bits  of  butter,  and  lemon  cut    into  little  pieces;  make   two  <iv  three 

layers,  cover  with  an  upper  crust,  and  bake.     Tse  no  wat"r;  it  will  form  a  syrup. 

Mrs.  A.  E.  Klrtliiiut,  Autlior  of  "  Mrs.  Kirtland's  Cook  Book,"  Montgomery,  Aiiiltiinui 

OIIEKUV  IMIO. 
Stem  and  stone  the  cherries.     Covei'  the  bottoui  of  a  lonK  tin  with  the  paste, 
tlu>n  put  in  the  fruit,  to  which  add  one  teaeupful  of  .sugar  and  (;ne  teacupful  of 
tlour;  bake  with  two  crusts. 

llatlie  K,  Davis(jn,  Grovedalc,  Missouri. 


PEACir  TIE. 
Eine  a  pie-pan  with  a  rich  paste;  peel,  halve  and  seed  iieaches  enounh  to  lill 
the  pan,  then  sprinkle  over  the  pie  two  tablespoonfuls  of  (lour,  one  cupful  oT 
sufjar,  or  more,  to  suit  the  taste;  fill  the  pan  with  thick,  sweet  cream,  and  bake 
until  done. 

Mrs.  Louisa  Ash,  Mount  Vernon,  Oliio. 

CURRANT  PIE. 
1  egff,  1  cupful  of  ripe  currants. 

1  cupful  of  sugar. 
Beat  the  egg  and  sugar  together,  and  pour  it  over  the  currants;  bake  witli 
two  crusts. 

Mrs.  H.  E.  D.,  Clarks,  Pennsylvania. 


2lS  PIES    AND    PUDDiNflg. 

LEMON  riE. 

1  «?gg-,       •  2  teaciipfuls  of  boiling  water, 

2  teacupfuls  of  white  suixav,  2  small  tablespoonfuls  of  corn-starch* 
1  tablespoonful  of  butter,  2  lemons. 

Dissolve  the  corn-starch  in  a  little  cold  water,  then  put  it  into  the  boiling 
water;  add  the  sugar,  and  let  it  boil  a  few  minutes;  set  aside,  and  when  cool, 
add  the  butter,  egg  and  the  juice  and  grated  rinds  of  the  lemons.  This  makeiM 
three  pies;  by  adding  more  water  to  the  above  quautitj^  it  will  be  enough  for 
four. 

Mrs.  A.  Winger,  Springfield,  Ohio. 

CUSTARD  PIE. 

3  eggs,  1  cupful  of  sugar, 

1  quart  of  milli,  1  tablespoonful  of  corn-starch, 

1  teaspoonful  of  vanilla,  A  small  pinch  of  salt. 

Beat  the  eggs  and  sugar  together;  mix  in  the  other  ingredients  well,  and  bake 
on  one  crust.    This  makes  two  pies. 

Mrs.  A.  A.  Davidson,  Milan,  Tennessee. 

APPLE-CUSTARD  PIE. 

Peel,  core  and  stew  sour  a])ples;  mash  them  ver.v  fine,  and  for  each  pie  allow 
1  egg,  the  3'olk,  •  i^  cupful  of  butter, 

1  cupful  of  sugar,  14  of  a  grated  nutmeg. 

Bake  with  only  one  crust,  the  same  as  pumpkin  pie,  and  use  the  white  of  the 
egg  as  frosting,  to  be  spread  on  after  the  pie  is  done;  brown  it  nicely  by  return- 
ing it  to  the  oven  for  a  few  minutes. 

Mrs.  Louisa  Asli,  Mount  Vernon,  Oliio. 

LEMON-CUSTARD  PIE. 

T-oo  eggs,  one  cupful  of  water,  one  len'on.  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one 
cupful  of  granulated  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  of  corn-starch  dissolved  in  water. 
Grate  the  rind;  then  peel  off  the  thick,  white  skin,  and  grate  the  rest  of  the 
lemon,  being  careful  to  remove  the  seeds.  Save  out  one  of  the  whites,  and  beat 
to  a  stiff  froth,  with  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar;  put  this  on  the  top  after  it  is 
baked,  and  return  to  the  oven  until  it  is  a  delicate  brown. 

PINEAPPLE  CUSTARD. 
1  can  of  grated  pineapple,  1  cupful  of  milk, 

1  tablespoonful  of  flour,  i/4  pound  of  butter, 

1  pound  of  sugar,  .5  eggs,  beaten  separately. 

Mix  as  usual.    Makes  four  pies. 

Mrs.  A.  E.  Kirtland,  Author  of  "  Mrs.  Kirtland's  Cook  Book,"  Montgomery,  Alabama. 

CREAM  PIE. 

1  cupful  of  sweet  crean),  2  hea.ping  spoonfuls  of  sugar, 

2  heaping  spoonfuls  of  corn-starch  or  flour. 
Flavor  with  lemon;  bake  as  custard  pie. 

iMrs.  K.  A.,  St.  Clair,  Nevada. 


PIKS    AND    PUDDINGS.  219 

COIIN-STAKCH   PIE. 

1  quart  of  milk,  2  vg:gH,  yolks, 

2  tablespooufuLs  of  forn-staich,  2  oupfuls  of  sugar. 

Mix  the  starch  in  a  little  milk,  boil  tlio  rest  of  the  milk  to  a  thick  cream; 
beat  the  yolks  and  atUl  the  starch,  put  in  the  boiled  milk  and  sugar;  bake  with 
an  under  crust  only;  beat  the  whites  with  two  tables])oonfuls  of  sugar,  and  put 
on  the  top  of  the  pie;  when  done,  return  to  the  oven,  and  brown. 

COCO  A  ACT  Fii:. 

2  eggfi,  3  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar, 
1  cupful  of  grated  fresh  cocoanut,             1  pint  of  milk, 

1  tablespoonful  of  corn-starch,  Small  piece  of  butter. 

Bake  with  one  crust.    One  half  cupful  of  desiccated  cocoanut,  soaked  in  the 
milk  three  or  four  hours,  may  be  used  if  you  cannot  get  the  fresli. 
Mrs.  Geo.  H.  Knight,  Mexico,  New  York. 

PUMI'KIX  I'lE. 

4  eggs,  1  quart  of  strained  pumpkin, 

3  cupfuls  of  sugar.  1  teaspoonfiil  of  ginger, 

3  pints  of  milk,  4  teaspoonfuLs  of  cinnamon. 

This  is  enough  for  two  pies. 
L.  H.  B.,  Postville,  Iowa. 

RASPBERRY  PIE. 

Line  the  pan  with  a  good  crust,  and  fill  with  ripe  berries,  regulating  the 
quantity  of  sugar  required  by  the  sweetness  of  the  berries;  dredge  a  little  flour 
and  small  bits  of  butter  over  the  top;  wet  theedge  of  the  crust,  put  on  the  upper 
crust,  and  pinch  the  edges  close  together,  taking  care  to  prick  holes  in  the  upper 
one  to  allow  the  air  to  escape.     Bake  half  an  hour. 

HFCKLEBEP.RY  PIE. 

Make  crust  as  for  any  berry  pie;  till  with  nicely  j^repared  berries,  sprinkle 
with  tlour  and  sugar,  add  a  little  water  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar; 
then  add  a  top  crust,  and  bake  well. 
Mrs.  E.  Cowles,  Perryville,  Jliehigan. 

RHTTRARB  I'lE. 

Line  a  pie-tin  with  rich  paste.  Wash  the  rhubarb,  and  cut  up  into  inch  pieces 
v.nthout  peeling  off  the  skin;  mix  with  sugar,  and  put  into  the  crust,  being  care- 
ful to  sprinkle  tlour  upon  tlie  bottom  first;  put  on  the  upjier  crust,  and  pinch  the 
edges  firmly  together.  No  water  should  be  put  in,  as  the  fruit  makes  stifficient 
juice  itself. 

RAISIN  PIE. 

Boil  one  pound  of  raisins,  one  cupful  of  molasses  and  one  quart  of  water 
together  for  one  hour;  then  add  one  tablespoonful  of  tlour.  a  small  piece  of 
butter,  spice  to  suit  the  taste,  and  bake  with  two  crusts.  This  quantity  makes 
three  pies. 

Mrs,  W-  Damon,  Ivcominster,  Massachusetts, 


220  PIES    AND    rUDDlNGS. 

GRAPE  PIE. 

Oue  egg,  oue  teacnpful  of  sugar,  one  lieapiug  teacupfiil  of  grapes.  Beat  the 
egg  and  sugar  together;  then  add  the  grapes,  oue  tablespoonful  of  flour  and 
a  little  butter.     Bake  with  two  crusts. 

Mrs.  M.  DePouter,  New  Haven,  Vermont. 

BOILED-ClUEPv  PIE. 

1  egg,  %  cupful  of  boiled  cider, 
li/o  cupfuls  of  sugar,  3  tablespoonfuls  of  flour, 

2  cupfuls  of  cold  water. 

This  makes  tAvo  pies;  baked  with  only  one  crust. 
Mrs.  G.  H.  T.,  Manlins,  New  York. 

VINEGAR  PIE. 

1  cupful  of  molasses,  1  cupful  of  flour, 

1  cupful  of  sugar.  3  cupfuls  of  water, 

1  cupful  of  vinegar.  Boil  all  together,  and  let  it  cool. 

Flavor  with  lemon,  and  make  it  as  you  would  custard  pie. 
Mrs.  E.  M.  Y.,  Herndon,  Virginia. 

JELLY  PIE. 

Five  eggs,  reserving  the  whites  of  two:  beat  together  one  cupful  of  sugar, 
one  cupful  of  jelly  and  one  third  of  a  cupful  of  butter:  mix  all,  and  bake  on  one 
crust.  Beat  tJie  whites  of  the  eggs  with  sugar  enough  to  make  it  as  thick 
as  icing,  and  spread  this  over  the  pie  when  it  is  done;  if  desired,  brown  it  a  little 
in  the  oven. 

L.  F.  C,  Seal,  Alabama. 

TRANSPARANT  PIE. 

3  eggs,  1  cupful  of  rich  cream, 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  3  tablespoonfuls  of  .ielljs 
Flavor  with  lemon. 

This  makes  oue  pie.     Bake  with  one  crust. 
Mrs.  Dr.  H.,  Pilot  Grove,  Missouri. 

CHEESE-CAKE  PIE. 

3  eggs,  1  cupful  of  sugar, 

1  quart  of  soft  smear-kase. 

Mix  Avell,  and  pom-  into  a  rich  pie-crust,  and  bake  without  an  upper  crust. 
This  makes  two  pies. 
Cliristie  Irving. 

CHESS  PIE. 

4  eggs,  1  cupful  of  sweet  cream, 

2  cupfuls  of  sugar.  2-3  of  a  cupful  of  butter, 
1  tablespoonful  of  flom*. 

Flavor  Avith  nutmeg:  cover  the  pans  with  crust,  pour  in  the  mixture,  and 
grate  nutmeg  over  it.    There  is  no  upper  crust.    B^ke  aSi  custard  pie, 
]\trs.  James  (gladden,  StQcl^w^U,  tndiaxvi, 


riKS  AND  i'i;j)i)iN(js.  221 

S()UASIt  I'lE. 

Boil  tho  s(iuash  until  well  done;  add  a  little  salt,  and  press  tlirous;li  a  coarse 
sieve;  tlien  to  every  teacupful  of  squash  add  one  egg.  one  half  cupful  of  sugar, 
one  teaspoouful  of  flour,  and  nutmeg  to  season;  line  a  deep  pie-plate  witli  paste, 
thin  the  squash  with  milk,  and  till  tiie  plate;  sweet  creain  or  a  small  piece  of 
butter  adds  to  the  flavor  of  the  j)ie. 

JMrs,  A.  L.  Fisli,  .South  Deerfleld,  Massacliusetts. 

PINEArPLP:  PIE. 

5  eggs,  "I  cupful  of  sweet  cream, 

1  eui)ful  of  sugar,  i/.  cupful  of  butter, 

1  grated  pineapple. 
Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream,  add  tlie  beaten  yolks  of  the  eggs,  then 
the  pineapi)le  and  cream,  and  lastly  the  beaten  whites,  whipped  in  lightly. 
Take  eacli  section  out  with  a  steel  fork,  and  cut  off  the  blossom,  then  chop 
them  up  very  fine,  and  add  them  to  the  grated  core,  or  heart.  Bake  with  an 
uuder  crust  only. 

Mrs.  M.  P.,  Cliesterfleld,  Ohio. 

TOMATO  PIE. 

Remove  the  skins  from  four  large,  ripe  yellow  tomatoes;  slice  thin  into  yoiu* 
pie-crust;  add 

4  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  A  small  lump  of  butter, 

1  tablespoonful  of  vinegar,  1  tablespoonful  of  flour. 

Put  strips  across  the  top;  bake  slowly  until  thoroughly  done. 

GREEN-TOMATO  PIE. 

Pare  and  slice  Ave  or  si.x  green  tomatoes;  have  the  uuder  crust  ready,  ami 
put  them  in  it;  add 

'/{.  teacupful  of  vinegar,  1  cupful  of  sugar, 

A  small  piece  of  butter. 
Sprinkle  over  it  a  little  allspice  and  flour;  put  on  the  top  crust,  and  bake  in  a 
moderately  hot  oven. 

Mrs.  Jane  M.  Page,  Baldwin,  Michigan. 

IRISH-POTATO  PIE. 

Prepai'e  fine  mashed  potatoes  the  same  as  for  the  table;  add  to  a  quart  of  the 
mi.xture  two  eggs,  one  half  cupful  of  milk,  sweeten  to  taste;  pom-  into  the  paste, 
and  grate  nutmeg  over  the  top;  bake  Avithout  an  upper  crust. 

SWEET-POTATO  PTE. 

Slice  cold  boiled  sweet  potatoes  as  thick  as  bread,  and  lay  them  in  a  pie-plate 
that  is  covered  witli  paste;  put  in  one  tablespoonful  of  vinegar,  two  tablespoon- 
fuls of  sugar;  fill  the  ])late  with  A\-ater.  and  sprinkle  bits  of  butter  and  a  little 
flour;  season  Avith  allspice,  and  bake  with  an  upper  crust, 
Mrs.  Wr  B.  Raid,  Jackson,  Michigan, 


222  PIES    AND    PUDDINGS. 

CHICKEN-FIE  CRUST. 

Take  <a  quart  measure  full  of  flour,  and  mix  -with  it  four  teaspoonfuls  of 
bakiug-powdei'.  a  piuch  of  salt  ami  oue  teacupful  of  lard;  moisten  with  sweet 
milk  sufficient  to  roll;  roll  out  once,  spread  with  butter,  lap  it  over,  and  roll 
again.    It  is  then  ready  to  put  on  the  pie. 
Mrs.  A.  H.  T.,  Berlin  Heights,  Obio. 

POT-PIE. 

Cut  veal,  beef  or  chicken  into  pieces,  and  put  into  enough  boiling  water  to 
cover,  with  two  slices  of  bacon;  cover  closely,  and  boil  an  hour,  and  season  to 
taste.  INIake  a  batter  of  two  well-beaten  eggs,  Iavo  cupfuls  of  milk,  one  teaspoon- 
ful  of  baking-powder  and  flour,  drop  in  separate  spoonfuls  while  boiling,  and 
cook  five  minutes;  serve  immediately. 

BEEFSTEAK  FIE. 

Take  some  fine,  tender  steaks,  beat  them  a  little,  season  with  a  salt-spoonful 
of  pepper  and  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  to  a  two-pound  steak;  put  bits  of  butter  the 
size  of  a  hickory-nut  over  the  Avhole  surface,  dredge  a  tablespoouful  of  flour 
over,  then  roll  it  up,  and  cut  it  into  pieces  two  inches  long;  put  a  rich  pie-paste 
around  the  sides  and  bottom  of  a  tin  basin;  put  in  the  pieces  of  steak,  nearly  fill 
the  basin  with  Avater,  add  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  large  egg,  cut  small, 
dredge  in  a  teaspoonful  of  flour,  add  a  little  pepper  and  salt,  lay  skewers  across 
the  basin,  roll  a  top  crust  to  one  half  inch  in  thickness,  cut  a  slit  in  the  center; 
dip  your  fingers  into  flour,  and  neatly  pinch  the  top  and  side  crust  together  all 
around  the  edge;  bake  one  hour  in  a  quick  oven. 

MOCK  MINCE  PIE. 

%  cupful  of  molasses,  1  cupful  of  chopped  raisins, 

2-3  of  a  cupful  of  watei*.  1  tablespoouful  of  cloves. 

2-3  of  a  cupful  of  a  inegar,  1  tablespoouful  of  cinnamon, 

1  cupful  of  sugar,  1  grated  nutmeg. 

1  cupful  of  bread-crumbs,  Butter  the  size  of  a  hen's  egg. 

Mix  this,  and  put  it  on  the  stove  to  heat  thoroughly,  stirring  often;  bake  with 
two  crusts. 

Mrs.  Mollie  I.  P.  Boone,  New  Carlisle,  Ohio. 

■MIXCE-MEAT  FOIi  PIES. 

3  pounds  of  boiled  beef.  IVi;  pounds  of  currants, 

1  pound  of  suet,  1  pound  of  citron, 
3  pounds  of  brown  sugar,  1  grated  nutmeg, 

y^  peck  of  apples,  JNIace— 5  cents'  worth  of  powdered. 

2  pounds  of  raisins.  Allspice  and  cinnamon  to  suit  the  taste. 
Chop  the  meat,  suet  and  apples  fine;  then  put  them  with  the  seasoning:  slice 

the  citron  fine;  pour  on  sweet  cider  to  make  a  thick  batter  of  it.  and  warm  thor- 
oughly.   It  is  seasoned  through  much  better. 

Mrs.  A.  K.,  Spi-intrtiolil,  Ohio. 


I'lKS    AND    I>UI)I)lN(iS.  228 

iMii\CE-MKAT   FOK    TIES. 
Tlie   wife  of  (Jciicriil    FitzhiiLili    I>«><'.   of   \'iriiinia,   is   ;i    faiumis   liousckccpcr, 
and  this  is  how  she  says  she  makes  the  iiiiiiee-iueat  for  her  Thaiiks.uiviii;^  i)ies: 
2  pounds  of  beef,  2  pounds  of  suj?ar, 

2  pounds  of  eurrants.  2  j^rated  nutmegs, 

2  pounds  of  raisins,  %  ounce  of  eloves, 

1  pound  of  citron,  y^  ounce  of  cinnamon, 

2  pounds  of  beef  suet,  %  ounce  of  mace, 
IV2  pounds  of  candied  k'mon-peel,  1  teaspoonful  of  salt, 

4  pounds  of  apples,  2  lemons,  the  juice  and  rind, 
2  pounds  of  sultara  raisins,  2  oranjjes,  the  juice  and  rind. 

Simmer  the  meat  .ci^'itly  until  tender,  and  when  perfectly  cold,  chop  it  fine; 
stone  the  raisins,  shred  tlie  citrons,  pare,  core  and  chop  the  apples,  cho])  the  suet 
fine;  mix  the  dry  ingredients,  then  add  the  juice  and  rinds  of  the  oranues  and 
lemons;  i)ack  in  a  stone  jar,  cover  closely,  and  keep  cool,  'i'his  mince-meat  will 
keep  all  winter.  The  I'ule  is  an  old  one,  and  is  said  to  liave  come  from  llie 
Custis  family  in  the  beginning.  According  to  Virginia  tradition,  the  widow 
'Custis  wlio  became  Mrs.  ■\^'ashington  made  famous  mince-  pies. 

TAinS. 
-Make  crust  as  for  pies;  roll  very  thin,  and  cut  wilh  a  biscuit-cutter,  i)ricking 
half  of  the  number  with  a  fork  to  keep  then;  from  blistering;  in  the  remaining 
half  cut  three  holes  with  yoiu'  thimble;  bake  in  a  quick  oven.  Will  need  close 
Avatching,  as  they  scorch  easily.  Prepare  for  the  table  by  placing  jellj'  on  the 
pricked  crust,  and  placing  the  one  with  holes  over  it. 
S.  F.  Mills,  Rosetta,  Illinois. 

CRUST  r^OIl  TARTS. 
Rub  one  teacupful  of  lard  into  three  teacupfuls  of  flour  and  a  pinch  of  salt; 
beat  the  white  of  one  egg  slightlj-,  add  five  tablespoonfuls  of  water  to  it,  and 
mix  it  into  the  flour.     Do  not  mix  more  than  necessary,  and  it  will  be  a  flaky 
crust. 

SWEET  POTATO  TARTS. 

5  eggs,  1  teacupful  of  butter, 

1  teacupful  of  sugar,  A  little  nutmeg  or  cinnamon. 

One  pound  of  boiled  and  mashed  potatoes,  with  a  iiinch  of  salt,  and  milk  to 
make  it  moist;  beat  the  butter  and  sugar  flrst,  and  then  add  the  potato,  a  little 
at  a  time;  beat  up  the  eggs,  and  stir  them  in,  then  add  the  flavor.  Line  the  pie- 
pans  Avitli  a  crust;  fill,  and  bake  the  same  as  pumpkin  pie.  This  quantity  will 
make  three  or  four  tarts. 
L.  G.,  Cuckoo,  Virginia. 

APPLE  TARTLETS. 

Cut  from  puff  paste  twelve  round  pieces  two  inches  in  diameter,  place  in 
tart-pans,  and  press  firm  into  the  scallops,  lay  in  each  some  chopped  apple  and 
a  little  sugar;  bake  them  in  a  moderate  oven,  and  let  them  eool.  Whip  a  little 
cream  very  stiff,  add  a  little  sugar  and  a  drop  ol  essence  of  lemon  or  vanilla; 
just  before  wanted,  place  a  little  cream  on  each  tartlet,  and  two  strips  of  red- 
currant  jelly  in  the  form  of  a  cross. 
Mrs.  .1.  S.  Crowell,  Springfield,  Ohio. 


224  pies  and  puddings. 

noitii.lp:s. 

Nouilles  are  made  of  delicate  pastry,  cut  iuto  ribands  and  various  siiapes, 
aud  used  as  a  substitute  for  vermicelli  and  macaroni,  eitlier  in  making  fritters 
or  puddings  or  for  serving  with  cheese  or  in  soup.  They  are  made  as  follows: 
TalvC  half  a  pound  of  fine  flour,  put  it  on  the  pastry  board,  make  a  hole  in  the 
center,  and  in  this  put  tAVO  eggs;  add  a  pinch  of  sail,  one  half  ounce  of  butter, 
one  teaspoonful  of  cold  water;  mix  all  iuto  a  very  firm,  smooth  paste;  leave  it  a 
little  while  to  dry,  then  roll  it  out  as  thin  as  possible,  and  cut  it  into  thin  bands 
about  one  and  one  fourth  inches  in  width;  dredge  a  little  flour  upon  these,  and 
lay  four  or  five  of  them  one  above  another,  then  cut  them  through  into  thin 
shreds,  something  like  vermicelli;  shake  them  well  to  prevent  their  sticking 
together,  and  spread  them  out  to  dry.  Nouilles  cannot  be  made  witliout  a 
straight  rolling-pin  and  smooth  pastry-board.  When  Avauted  for  use,  drop  tliem 
gradually  into  boiling  water,  stirring  gently  with  a  wooden  spoon  to  keep  tliem 
from  getting  lumpy;  let  them  boil  for  six  to  twenty  minutes,  then  take  them  up 
with  a  strainer,  drain  them  well,  and  spread  them  out  on  a  coarse  cloth. 
Besides  thread-like  nouilles,  a  few  may  be  made  the  size  and  shape  of  scarlet- 
runner  beans  or  small  birds'  eggs,  or  they  may  be  cut  broad  like  macaroni.  If 
thoroughly  dried,  they  will  keep  any  length  of  time  stored  in  tin  canisters. 

PUFF  PASTE. 

To  each  pound  of  flour  allow  one  pound  of  butter;  use  half  of  the  butter  with 
the  flour  and  cold  Avater  enough  to  mold  it;  roll  it  out  quite  thin,  and  put  oui 
half  the  butter  that  remains  in  small  bits;  dredge  this  with  flour,  roll  up  the' 
paste,  then  roll  it  out  again,  thin;  put  on  the  rest  of  the  butter,  and  roll  up  as. 
before;  repeat  this  until  the  butter  is  all  used.  It  must  be  done  quickly;  be^ 
careful  not  to  handle  it  any  more  than  you  can  help.  Put  in  a  cool  place  until 
you  are  ready  to  use  it. 

DROP  DUMPLINGS. 

Sift  together  one  cupful  of  flour,  one  half  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  baking-poAvder;  add,  stirring  Avith  a  kuife,  about  one  half  cupful  of 
milk  or  Avater;  divide  into  five  parts,  and  drop  on  the  top  of  any  nice  steAV,  being- 
careful  not  to  let  the  gravy  cover  them;  lay  a  cloth  over  tiie  top  of  the  kettle' 
before  putting  on  the  lid;  it  Avill  absorb  the  steam  aud  prevent  its  falling  back 
in  drops  upon  the  dumplings,  and  thus  making  them  heavy.  Cook,  closely  cov- 
ered, for  exactly  tAA-elve  minutes;  do  not  look  at  them  during  the  time. 
Miss  Marion  L.  Campbell,  Friendly  Inn  Cooking  School,  Cleveland,  Ohio. 

STEAMED  APPLE  DUMPLINGS. 

Mix  up  a  dough  with 

1  quart  of  fiour,  1  pint  of  sour  cream, 

1  teaspoonful  of  soda,  A  little  salt. 

Slice  the  apples,  and  put  them  into  a  pot;  put  enough  Avater  in  to  cook  the 
apples;  roll  the  dough  out  so  as  to  cover  the  apples  closely;  make  an  opening  in 
the  center  of  the  dough,  so  as  to  let  the  steam  escape;  Avlien  done,  the  dough  Avill 
be  raised  up  several  inches  thick.     Eat  with  sauce. 
Mrs.  J.  A.  R.,  Woodrow,  PennsyK'ania. 


PIES   AND    PUDDINGS.  225 

BAKED  API'LE  DUMri.IiXGS. 

Pod  Jiud  cut  iuto  lialvt'S  good  eooking-applcs,  and  reinovo  llio  cores  from 
each  half;  then  fill  the  vacancies  with  sui-ar,   and   phice  the  halves  together 
again.     I'repare  dough  as  or  biscuit,  roll  thin,  and  cut  into  pieces  large  enough 
to  wrap  around  each  apple.    Bake  slowly;  when  done,  serve  with  sauce. 
Sarah  J.  Carter,  Cynthiana,  Indiana. 

BAKED  APPLE  PUDDIN(^ 

4  eggs,  the  yolks  of,  3  tablespoonfuls  of  butter, 

0  large  grated  pippins,  i/.  cupful  of  sugar. 
The  juice  and  half  the  peel  of  one  lemon. 

Beat  the  sugar  and  butter  to  a  cream,  stir  in  the  yolks  antl  lenmn,  with  the 
grated  apples;  pour  into  a  deej)  pudding-dish  to  bake.    Wliip  tlie  whites,  and  add 
them  last;  grate  a  little  nutmeg  over  the  top.     Eat  cold  with  cream. 
S.  E.  R.,  Ubesterfleld,  Virginia. 

CHERRY  PUDDING. 

2  eggs,  1  cupful  of  sweet  milk, 

2  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder. 
Flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff  batter,  and  as  many  cherries  as  can  be  stirred 
in;  bake  one  half  hour,  and  serve  with  sugar  and  cream. 

LEMON  PUDDING. 

4  eggs,  the  yolks,  1  pint  of  bread-crumbs, 

1  cupful  of  sugar,  1  teaspoonful  of  butter, 

1  quart  of  milk.  The  grated  rind  of  one  lemon. 

When  well  done,  spread  over  the  top  a  layer  of  jelly,  and  add  the  whites  of 
the  eggs  whipped  to  a  stiff  froth,  sweetened  with  one  cupful  of  sugar  and 
flavored  with  the  juice  of  the  lemon;  then  set  in  the  oven  to  brown  lightly. 
Allow  half  an  hour  for  baking  the  pudding. 

Mrs.  M.  E.,  Creston,  Iowa. 

PINEAPPLE  PUDDING. 

1  can  of  grated  pineapple,  %  cupful  of  milk, 

%  cupful  of  butter,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  corn-starch, 

1  cupful  of  sugar,  (>  well-beaten  eggs. 

Cream  butter  and  sugar  until  light,  add  the  other  tilings,  and  bake  in  a  pan. 
Mrs.  A.  E.  Kirtland,  Author  of  "  Mrs.  Kirt land's  Cook  Book,"  Montgomery,  Alabama. 

ORANGE  OR  PINEAPPLE   PUDDING. 

Peel  and  cut  into  pieces  four  oranges;  add  04ie  cupful  of  sugar,  and  let  it 
stand  over  night;  take  one  quart  of  milk,  nearly  boiling,  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
corn-starch  wet  with  cold  milk,  three  beaten  yolks  of  eggs;  bring  this  to  a  boil; 
when  cold,  spread  over  the  oranges;  beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  with  one  half 
cupful  of  sugar,  to  a  stiff  froth,  spread  over,  and  brown.  Can  be  eaten  warm  or 
cold. 

Mrs.  B.  p.  A.,  Providence,  Rhode  Island. 


226  PIES   AKD   PUDDINGS. 

ORANGE  PUDDING. 
Peel  and  slice  four  large  oranges,  lay  in  your  dish,  sprinkle  over  them  one 
cupful  of  sugar.    Take 

3  eggs,  yolks  only  beaten,  2  tdfblespoonfuls  of  corn-starch, 
V2  cupful  of  sugar,  1  quart  of  boiling  milk. 

Let  this  boil  and  thicken;  then  let  it  cool  a  little  before  pouring  over  the 
oranges;  beat  the  Avhites  of  the  eggs,  and  pour  over  it;  set  in  the  oven  to  brown. 
Mvi.  McKinstry,  Jackson,  Michigan. 

ENGLISH  PLUM  PUDDING. 
9  eggs,  1  pound  of  dried  currants, 

1  pound  of  sugar,  %  of  a  pound  of  dried  citron, 

1  pound  of  chopped  suet,  1  pound  of  flour. 

1  pound  of  stoned  raisins,  1  tablespoonful  of  mixed  spice. 
Add  sufficient  milk  to  mix  it  quite  stiff.     Have  a  strong  cloth,  well  floured, 

ready,  and  in  tying  it,  leave  plenty  of  room  for  it  to  swell;  put  it  into  boiling 
water,  and  let  it  boil  nine  hours,  keeping  it  well  covered;  sauce  to  suit  the  taste. 
This  one  is  most  used: 

2  quarts  of  milk,  1  teaspoonful  of  butter, 

%  of  a  cupful  of  sugar,  1  heaping  tablespoonful  of  corn-starch. 

Leave  out  enough  milk  to  moisten  the  corn-starch,  sugar  and  butter  to  a  thick 
batter,  and  pour  in  the  lest  of  the  milk  when  boiling.    Let  it  cook  three  minutes. 
Mrs.  E.  C.  W.,  Mount  Vernon,  Otiio. 

PLUM  PUDDING. 
1  pound  of  finely  cut  raisins,  %  pound  of  citron, 

%  pound  of  butter,  3  ounces  of  flour, 

8  ounces  of  bread-crumbs,  3  eggs, 

4  ounces  of  sugar. 

Season  with  cinnamon,  mace  and  nutmeg;  pour  one  tumblerful  of  milk  over 
the  bread-crumbs  to  soften,  a  little  salt,  some  finely  cut  orange-peel;  mix  all,  and 
boil  two  hours.    Serve  with  sauce. 

Mrs.  A.  E.  Kirtland,  Author  of  "Mrs.  Kirtland's  Cook  Book,"  Montgomery,  Alabama. 

RICE  PUDDING. 

3  eggs,  %  of  a  pound  of  butter, 
IV2  cupfuls  of  sugar,  1%  cupfuls  of  raisins, 

1  cupful  of  boiled  rice. 
After  the  rice  has  cooled,  mix  in  the  rest  of  the  ingredients,  and  enough  sweet 
milk  to  nearly  fill  a  six-quart  pan;  bake  one  half  hour. 
Mrs.  T.  K.  M.  B.,  Chelsea,  Vermont. 

CRANBERRY  PUDDING. 
li/(.  cupfuls  of  sour  milk,  %  of  a  cupful  of  molasses, 

1  teaspoonful  of  soda,  1  teaspoonful  of  salt, 

3  cupfuls  of  flour. 
Stir  Avell  together,  and  add  two  cupfuls  of  raw  cranberries;  pour  into  a  but- 
tered tin,  and  steam  one  and  one  half  hours.    Eat  with  sauce. 
Mrs.  S.  L.  B.,  Lynnfleld,  Massachusetts. 


PIKS    AND    PUDDINGS.  227 

DELICATE  RICE  I'UI)D1X(;. 

Wnsli  four  tabk'spoonfuls  of  rice,  nnd  cook  in  one  quart  of  milk  until  vory 
soft;  take  from  tlie  tire,  add  one  lieajjinf;-  tal)lespoonful  of  butter,  one  lialf  cupful 
of  sujiar  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  sail;  ^^  hen  cool,  add  the  beaten  yolks  of  four 
ejijjs  and  the  united  rind  of  a  lemon,  cook  until  firm;  beat  ihe  whites  of  the  ef!:i.^s 
to  a  stilf  froth,  sweeten  to  taste  Avitli  powdeied  su.uar,  and  flavor  AA'ith  lemon- 
juice;  pile  liahtly  on  the  pudding,  and  brown  slightly. 

Mrs.  Altbea  Somes,  Teacher  of  Cookery,  Manual  Training  School,  Boston,  Mass. 

RICE  AND  TAPIOCA  PUDDING. 

3  tablespoonfuls  of  rice,  4  tablespoonfu^s  of  sugar, 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  tapioca,  A  little  grated  nutmeg, 

1  quart  of  milk. 
Bake  in  a  slow  oven  two  or  three  hours,  stirring  occasionally  during  the  first 
hour.    This  pudding  is  better  than  Avith  rice  only. 
Mrs.  E.  Garttiwaitc,  Pluclicmin,  Nevs'  Jer.sey. 

TAPIOCA  PUDDING. 

Soak  over  night  in  a   bowl  one  cupful  of  tajtioca  covered  with  lukewarm 

water;  next  day,  put  info  a  quart  of  milk  four  Mcll-beaten  eggs,  one  half  cupful 

of  sugar,  one  half  teaspoonful  of  salt;  put  in  your  tapioca,  boil  in  a  double 

vessel,  stirring  constantly  wnth  a  Avooden  spoon;  when  it  creams,  remove  from 

the  fire;  beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  froth,  and  stir  in  like  float;  add  gelatin 

jelly,  laid  on  in  spoonfuls.     This  sliould  be  made  the  day  before.     Eat  cold. 

The  addition  of  three  tablespoonfuls  of  desiccated  cocoanut,  cooked  with   the 

tapioca,  and  some  of  it  mixed  in  Avith  the  Avhites  of  the  eggs  as  frosting,  is  very 

nice. 

Christie  Irving. 

TAPIOCA  FRUIT  PUDDING. 

Take  one  half  teacupful  of  tapioca;  Avash  nicely,  and  let  it  soak  in  a  pint  of 
water  over  night,  or  until  it  svvells;  then  add  boiling  AA^ater  and  a  little  salt,  and 
let  it  simmer  slowly  until  clear  like  starch  and  of  aT)out  the  same  consistency; 
add  a  little  Avhite  sugai';  take  a  padding-dish,  and  put  in  a  layer  of  tapioca  Avhile 
hot,  then  a  layer  of  fruit,  until  the  dish  is  full;  bake  until  clear.  Unless  tlie  fruit 
is  of  a  kind  that  l)akes  quickly,  it  Avill  be  found  better  to  stew  it  tender  first. 
Eat  cold  with  cream. 

Mrs.  R.  W.  Mills,  Webster  Groves,  Missouri. 

INDIAN  TAPIOCA  PUI>DING. 

Soak  one  fourth  cupful  of  pearl  tapioca  until  soft  in  one  cupful  of  milk.  ;m1x 
two  tablespoonfids  of  corn-meal  with  a  little  cold  milk,  put  tapioca,  meal,  etc. 
into  a  buttered  ptidding-dish,  add  one  half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  tablespoonful 
of  butter  and  one  cupful  of  molasses,  pour  over  this  one  quart  of  boiling  milk, 
mix  AA'ell,  and  Avhen  placed  in  an  OA'en,  add  one  cupful  of  cold  milk  Avithont  sf fi- 
ring; bake  one  hour. 

Mrs,  Althea  Somes,  Tejvcher  of  Cookery,  Manual  Training  School,  Boston,  Mass, 


228 


PIES    AND    PUDDINGS. 


TAPIOCA  INDIAN   PUDDING. 

Soak  one  third  of  a  cupful  of  pearl  tapioca  in  enough  cold  water  to  cover, 
over  night;  add  one  fourth  of  a  cupful  of  Indian  meal,  one  teaspoonful  of  butter, 
one  teaspoonful  of  salt;  mix  with  it  one  quart  of  scalded  milk  in  which  one  cup- 
ful of  molasses  has  been  added;  bake  slowly  for  one  and  one  half  hours. 

Miss  Angelina  M.  Weaver,  Instructor  Hyde  School  Kitchen,  Boston,  Massachusetts. 

APRICOT  PUDDING. 

Pouding  de  Apricot. 
Put  into  a  basin  one  half  pound  of  good  butter,  with  the  finely  chopped  peel 
of  one  lemon  and  as  much  ground  cinnamon  as  will  cover  a  five-cent  piece, 
and  a  salt-spoonful  pf  apricot  yellow;  work  these  together  with  a  clean  Avooden 
spoon  for  about  ten  minutes,  then  add  one  half  pound  of  fine  sugar,  and  work 
these  together  again  for  about  five  minutes,  and  by  degrees  add  one  half  pound 
of  Avhole  fresh  eggs,  and  one  half  pound  of  fine  flour  that  has  been  passed 
through  a  wire  sieve,  mixing  these  into  the  other  ingredients  thus:  One  egg 
and  one  tablespoonful  of  flour  sprinkled  in  until  all  are  united;  to  this  add  four 
preserved  apricots  that  have  been  cut  into  little  tlice  shapes  and  one  half  ounce 
of  baking-powder.  Take  a  plain  or  fancy  timbal-mold  with  a  pipe,  butter  it 
Avell  with  warmed  butter  by  means  of  a  paste-l>rush,  and  wliile  the  butter  is 


warm,  sprinkle  it  all  over  with  browned  bread-crumbs,  and  then  fill  the  mold 
three  fourths  with  the  prepared  mixture;  place  in  the  pipe  a  band  of  buttered 
paper  in  which  a  peeled  potato  or  carrot  is  placed,  to  prevent  the  mixture  run- 
ning aAA^ay  through  the  pipe,  and  fix  also  a  band  of  buttered  paper  around  the 
outside  of  the  mold,  and  standing  about  three  inches  above  it;  put  the  pudding 
into  a  moderate  oven  on  a  baking-tin,  and  bake  it  for  a  little  over  one  hour;  turn 
out  on  a  pastry-rack  with  a  dish  under  it,  and  pour  over  it  some  cherry  syrup, 
then  dish  the  pudding  up  on  a  hot  dish,  on  which  it  has  to  be  served,  and  cover 
it  entirely  with  yellow  apricot  sauce  (see  recipe),  pouring  some  of  the  sauce 
also  around  the  base  of  the  dish;  sprinkle  lightly  over  it  some  finely  shredded 
blanched  almonds  and  pistachio-nuts,  and  serve.  Enough  for  eight  to  ten 
persons. 

STALE-CAKE  PUDDING. 

Take  pieces  of  cake  that  are  getting  dry,  and  toast  in  the  oven,  then  breaU 
into  dishes,  and  pour  cream  over  it.    It  is  a  good  way  to  use  tip  dry  cake, 
J.  M.  R.,  Eagle  Lake,  Minnesota. 


PIES    AND    PUDDINGS.  229 

BIRD'S   NEST   PUDDING. 

I'aro  six  large,  tart  apples,  cut  them  into  two  pieces,  talve  out  the  cores,  ami 
lay  them  in  a  pudding  dish  or  pau;  till  the  ceuter  of  the  apples  with  sugar,  cin- 
namon and  nutmeg.     Make  a  ricli  custard,  and  pour  it  over  tlie  apples;  halve 
one  lialf  hour,  and  serve  with  sauce. 
Mrs.  C.  S.  K.,  Springfield,  Ohio. 

BKOWN  BETTY. 

Pare  and  core  one  dozen  large,  juicy  apples,  chop  line  with  a  hash-knife. 
Butter  a  deep  pudding-dish,  place  first  a  layer  of  chopped  apples,  some  bits  of 
butter  strewed  over  them,  then  sprinkle  with  white  sugar,  flavor  with  nutmeg, 
lenmn  essence  or  the  juice  and  a  little  of  the  rind  of  a  lemon,  next  a  layer  of 
bread-crumbs,  then  a  layer  of  apples,  and  so  on  until  the  dish  is  full,  finishing 
with  a  layer  of  bread-crumbs.  Send  it  to  the  table  hot  or  cold;  eat  witli  cream 
sauce. 

COLLEGE  PUDDING. 

31/1)  cupfuls  of  flour,  1  cupful  of  finely  chopped  suet, 

1  cupful  of  molasses,  1  level  teaspoonful  of  soda, 

1  cupful  of  sour  milk,  J/^  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
1  cupful  of  chopped,  seeded  raisins. 

Boil  in  a  pudding  mold  for  three  hours. 
Miss  Emily  E.  Squire,  Autlior  of  "  Woronoco  Women's  Wisdom,"  Westfleld,  Mass. 

CHOCOLATE   PUDDING. 

Stir  four  tablespooufuls  of  grated  chocolate  info  a  quart  of  boiling  milk; 
when  it  is  beaten  smooth,  add  the  yolks  of  five  eggs  and  two  tablespooufuls  of 
corn-starch  dissolved  in  a  little  milk;  stir  until  it  thickens,  and  flavor  with 
vanilla;  pour  the  mixture  into  a  pudding-dish,  and  bake  until  well  set;  beat  the 
whites  of  five  eggs  very  liglit,  add  five  tablespooufuls  of  pulverized  sugar,  and 
spread  over  the  top;  bake  to  a  delicate  brown. 
H.  F.  C,  College  Hill,  Ohio. 

STEAMED  SPICE  PUDDING. 

To  one  beaten  egg  add  one  third  cupful  of  brown  sugar,  one  third  cupful  of 
molasses  and  one  third  cupful  of  cold  coffee;  sift  together  one  cupful  of  flour,  one 
third  teaspoonful  of  soda,  one  fourth  teaspoonful  of  cloves,  one  half  teaspoonful 
of  cinnamon;  slowly  add  the  liquid  to  the  dry  mixture;  add  one  tablespoonful  of 
melted  butter  and  two  thirds  of  a  cupful  of  stoned  raisins  and  floured  with  one 
fourth  cupful  of  flour;  steam  in  greased,  tightly  covered  mold  for  two  hours, 
Miss  Marion  L.  Campbell,  Friendly  Inn  Cooking  School,  Cleveland,  Ohio. 

SNOW  PUDDING. 

Dissolve  one  boxful  of  gelatin  in  one  pint  of  cold  water  for  one  half  hoiu'; 
tlien  add  one  pint  of  boiling  water;  when  this  is  cold,  add  two  cupfuls  of  sugar 
and  the  whites  of  six  eggs,  Avell  beaten  together;  flavor  with  almond  or  vanilla, 
and  beat  all  together  with  an  egg-beater  until  very  stiff;  tlien  pour  it  into  molds. 
Make  a  custard  of  the  yolks  of  six  eggs  and  one  quart  of  milk  to  i>our  over  it 
when  served. 

Mrs.  Alex.  Murray,  Twenty-Mile  Staqd.Qhio. 


230  riKS  Axn  rroDiNGS. 

FlU-^NCri  PUDDING. 

Dissolve  one  cnipful  of  lapioi-a  faviua  in  a  (iiiarl  of  coW  milk  for  an  hour, 
tluni  boil  it  oii;'ht  or  toa  luiuutets  in  a  doublo  boilor:  tnko  it  olf  the  liro,  and  when 
oool.  add 

1  dessert-spoouful  of  sugar,  A  small  pioce  of  buttor, 
4  eg;gs.  well  beaten.  A  little  salt. 

!,{.  teaspoonful  of  vanilla. 
Serve  cold,  witli  the  follo\\  ing  saiiee: 

2  egg's,  yolks  of.  ^i-  pint  of  milk, 
1  cupful  of  sugar. 

The  whites  are  whipped,  and  put  on  top  of  tho  i^udding. 

KEXTFC K Y  DUDDIN G . 

3  eggs,  -^.-2  <-*upf"ls  of  sugar, 
%  of  a  cupful  of  butter.  1  cupful  of  cream, 

3  tablespoonfuls  of  flour.  1  teaspoonful  of  lemon  essence. 

Bake  in  one  crust  as  for  custard  pi<\ 
Mrs.  Carrie  Bell,  Eminence,  Kentucky. 

NEAPOLITAN  rUDDINC. 

Soak  one  cupful  of  broad-crumbs  iu  one  cupful  of  sweet  milk  until  you  can 
rub  it  smooth,  rub  three  fourths  of  a  cupful  of  sugar  and  cue  tablespoonful  of 
butter  together,  add  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  one  lemou  to  it:  beat  separately 
six  eggs,  add  the  yolks  to  the  creamed  sugar  and  butter,  then  put  in  the  soaked 
bread-crumbs;  now  stilTen  the  whites.  Butter  a  tin  bucket,  put  a  layer  of  this 
mixture  on  the  bottom,  on  this  a  layer  of  macaroons  that  have  been  dipped  into 
wine,  laid  closely  together,  cover  with  the  bread  mixture,  then  slices  of  sponge- 
cake spread  with  .ielly  or  delicate  jam.  then  the  bread  mixture,  and  so  on  until 
you  have  sutht-ient.  having  the  bread  on  top:  co^  er  closely,  and  boil  one  hour; 
turn  out  carefully,  and  serve  with  wine  sauce.    This  is  delightful. 

Mrs.  A.  E.  Kirtland,  Author  of  "  Mrs.  Kirtland's  Cook  Book,"  Montgomery,  Alabama. 

NEW  IMINUTE  TI'DDING. 

To  one  quart  of  milk  add  one  pint  of  water,  and  set  over  the  fire;  just  before 
it  begins  to  boil,  put  in  one  cupful  of  raisins  and  a  little  salt:  as  soon  as  it 
boils,  stir  in  tlour  enough  to  make  it  of  tlie  proper  consistency.  Eat  Avith  cream 
and  sugar. 

Mrs.  M.  J.  Prince,  Detroit,  Maine. 

QUEEN  OF  rUDDlNOS. 

(»  eggs,  2  whole  and  the  yolks  of  4,  1  cupful  of  white  sugar. 

Butter  the  size  of  an  egg.  1  quart  of  milk. 

1  quart  of  bread-crumbs.  ^L>  teacupful  of  raisins. 

1  teaspoonful  of  lemon  extract. 
Soak  the  bread-crumbs  in  the  milk;  bake  slowly  one  hour:  when  done,  spread 
the  top  with  currant  jelly  and  the  whites  of  four  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth, 
Mrs.  J.  Kyle,  Springfield,  Ohio. 


I'lKS    AND    1'UI)I)1N(JS.  2'dl 

(juries  i'iii)j)L\(;. 

4  i'iiiif^,  V-i  pint  <»f"  svijj;ar, 

1  tal)l('si)()onftil  of  Imttcr,  J/.  <<';i«J><><>i>l<il  of  «iiif?<'i'. 

1  pint  of  cold  gfits,  Kiioiifih  sweot  milk  to  soften. 
Beat  together,  and  bake  in  a  buttered  pan.     Servo  with  or  without  sauce. 

Mrs.  S.  C.  Davidson,  Wooteii,  Alabama. 

DELICIOUS  PT^DDIXC;. 

Hake  a  coiiinion  sponge-cake  in  a  tlat-bottoni  ijudding disli;  wiien  ready  for 

use,  cut  into  six  or  eiglit  pieces;  split,  and  spreatl  witii  butter,  and  return  Iheni  to 

the  dish.    Make  a  custard  with  four  eggs  to  a  (juart  of  nnlk,  flavor  and  sweeten 

to  the  taste;  pour  over  the  cake,  and  l)ake  one  half  liour.     The  cake  will  swell 

and  fill  the  custard. 

COTTA(JE  riJDDINd. 

2  eggs,  \y-2,  cupfuls  of  flour, 
1  cupful  of  sugar,                                           V-z  cupful  of  milk, 

Kuttcr  the  si7,e  of  a  walnut.  U  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder. 

Bake  twenty  minutes,  and  serve  \\  ith  lemon  sauce. 

FK;  PTTDDINO. 

Beat  three  eggs,  add  one  cupful  of  sugar,  one  half  cupful  of  milk..  Chop  fine 
one  half  pound  of  figs  and  one  half  pound  of  suet,  add  two  heai)ing  cupfuls  of 
soft  bread-crumbs,  then  add  the  first  mixture,  pour  into  a  mold,  steam  three 
hours.    Serve  with  wine  or  lemon  sauce. 

Miss  Ida  M.  Foster,  City  Hospital,  Wilkesbarre,  Pennsylvania. 

HASTY  PUDDING. 

Put  a  quart  of* milk  into  a  crock,  and  set  it  on  the  stove  to  cook;  as  soon  as 
it  comes  to  a  boll,  sift  in  the  Hour,  a  little  at  a  tinu',  stirring  it  well  until  it  is 
thick  and  stiff.  Serve  Avith  sweetened  cream  or  thickened  milk  made  in  this 
way:  Take  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut,  one  heaping  tal)lespoonful  of 
sugar  and  one  of  flour;  cream  this  togetlier,  and  pour  on  it  a  pint  of  milk;  let 
this  cook  ten  minutes.     Flavor  to  suit  the  taste. 

KICII  KASPP.EKIIY  PUDDINC. 
Beat  one  fourth  of  a  pound  of  butter  to  a  cream;  add  one  spoonful  of  sugar, 
three  tablespoonfuls  of  cream,  the  l)eat(>n  yolks  of  four  eggs  and  one  tablespoon- 
ful  of  raspberry  jam.  Lin«'  a  shallow  jiie-disli  with  puff  paste;  pour  in  the 
mixture,  and  bake  in  a  well-heate<l  oven  until  tlie  pastry  is  done  enough.  Suffic- 
ient for  three  or  four  persons. 

PALAC;  SIXT. 

Make  a  rich  ])iscuit-dough.  and  roll  it  out  on  the  molding-board  ;ibout  as  thick 
as  i)ie-crust;  spread  with  hot  butter,  then  use  cherries,  strawberries  or  any  kind 
of  fruit  for  the  filling,  and  sweeten  it  well;  then  roll  it  up  the  same  way  you  do 
a  jelly-cake,  and  cut  into  strips  or  pieces  about  five  inches  long;  pinch  the  ends 
together  to  keep  the  fruit  from  cooking  out,  then  put  the  pieces  into  a  well- 
buttered  pan,  and  bake  them  Avell,  turning  them  so  they  will  broAvn  delicately  on 
both  sides. 

Professor  Emilc  Saga 


232  PIES    ANt)    i>tJt)DINGS. 

KICE  A  L'IMPERIAL,  WITH  COMPOTE  OF  PINEAPPLK 

Wash  four  tablespoonfnls  of  rice  thoroughly  iu  cold  water,  let  it  soak  oue 

hour,  then  throw  it  into  a  large  kettle  of  boiling  water;  boil  rapidly  for  twenty 

minutes,  drain,  throw  it  into  a  clean  towel  or  napliiu,  and  shake  it  out  so  that  it 

will  dry  each  grain  separately;  put  two  tablespoonfnls  of  granulated  gelatin  into 

a  saucepan,  and  cover  it  with  one  fourth  cupful  of  milk.  Whip  one  pint  of  cream 

to  a  stiff  froth,  turn  it  into  a  basin,  stand  it  on  a  pan  of  cracked  ice,  or  ice-water. 

sprinkle  over  tAvo  thirds  of  a  cupful  of  powdered  sugar,  one  dessert-spoonful  of 

vanilla,  and  then  the  boiled  rice.     Stand  the  gelatin  over  the  tea-Ivettle.  and  stir 

until  dissolved;  add  it  to  the  cream,  and  begin  at  once  to  stir,  and  stir  constantly 

until  it  begins  to  thicken;  turn  at  once  into  a  border-mold— a  plain  mold  will 

answer— stand  aside  to  cool.    While  this  is  cooling,  pare,  and  pick  with  a  silver 

forii  one  pineapple,  saving  all  the  .juice;  put  this  juice  with  one  half  cupful  of 

water  into  a  saucepan,  add  one  half  cupful  of  sugar,  bring  to  the  boiling-point, 

take  from  the  fire,  and  stand  aside  to  cool;  when  ready  to  serve  the  pudding,  if 

you  have  a  border-mold,  turn  it  out  on  a  round  dish,  heap  the  pineapple  in  the 

center,  and  baste  the  pudding  with  the  sj^rup.     If  a  round  mold  or  an  ordinary 

pudding-mold,  heap  the  pineapple  around  the  base,  and  pour  the  syrup  over. 

Serve  icy  cold.    Any  other  delicate  fruit  may  be  substituted  for  pineapples. 

Mrs.  S.  T.  Rorer,  Author  of  "  Mrs.   Borer's  Cook  Book,"  and  Principal  Philadelnhia 
Cooking  School,  Philadelphia,  Pennsylvania. 

STRAWBERRY  SHORT  CAKE. 
Make  a  pie-criist  with 

%  of  a  pound  of  fiour,  2  eggs,  the  yolks  of, 

i/i  of  a  pound  of  butter,  A  little  sugar, 

A  pinch  of  soda. 
Then  beat  the  Avhites  of  seven  eggs  to  a  stifC  froth;  add 

%  pound  of  finely  chopped  almonds,  %  pound  of  sugar, 

A  plateful  of  strawberries. 

Mix  with  the  stiff  froth,  and  spread  on  the  baked  crust. 
Mrs.  Sloan,  Vienna,  Virginia. 

STRAWBERRY  SHORT-CAKE. 

3  tablespoonfnls  of  white  sugar,  3  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder, 

4  tablespoonfu.ls  of  butter,  1  quart  of  flour. 

Make  this  into  a  soft  dough  with  sweet  milk;  roll  out,  and  bake  in  three 
jelly-cake  pans;  mash  two  quarts  of  berries,  and  sweeten  them  well;  when  the 
cakes  are  done,  let  the  fii'st  and  third  ones  be  whole,  bat  split  the  middle  one. 
and  put  the  berries  between  each  layer,  after  they  have  been  buttered;  dust 
white  sugar  over  it,  and  eat  it  as  soon  after  making  as  you  can.  To  make  it 
still  richer,  before  mashing  the  berries  reserve  a  dozen  or  more  of  the  largest 
and  best  to  place  on  the  top  of  the  cake;  then  between  the  layers,  after  the 
berries  are  put  on,  cover  them  with  whipped  sweetened  sweet  cream;  cover  the 
top  cake  Avith  a  thick  coating  of  the  cream,  and  place  the  berries  on  it  in 
clusters  or  otherAA'ise.  This  malces  a  beautiful  dish. 
Mrs.  C.  S.  K.,  Springfield,  Ohio. 


TIES   AND    PUDDINGS.  238 

FKEXCri  STKAWBEKKY  SHOKT-CAKE. 

1  Qgii,  3  tablespoonfuls  of  milk, 

1  tnbh'spooiiful  of  sujiar,  1  teaspoouful  of  bakiug-powdcr, 

1  tahU'spoonful  of  butter,  Flour  to  stiffen. 

IvoU  out  one  half  inch  tliifk.  and  bake  in  a  deep  cake-tin;  when  done,  till  witli 

whole  well-s-\\'eetened  strawberries;  on  top  of  this  put  the  white  of  an  egg, 

beaten  stiff  and  sweetened  the  same  as  frosting. 

TEACH  COBBLER. 

To  one  pint  of  sour  cream  add  lard  or  butter  the  size  of  a  hen's  egg,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  soda,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff  dough;  roll  out 
thin,  and  line  a  dish.  Take  ripe  peaches,  pare  and  quarter,  put  a  layer  into  the 
dish,  and  sprinkle  on  sugar;  cut  some  dough  into  small  pieces,  and  put  over  tlic 
peaches, then  a  layer  of  sugared  peaches, and  lastly  the  dough  for  an  upper  crust; 
cut  a  hole  into  the  middle,  and  pour  in  one  and  one  half  pints  of  water  and  a 
lump  of  butter  the  size  of  a  hen's  ogg,  and  serve  while  hot  with  cream  or 
sweetened  milk.  Apples  can  be  used  in  the  same  way. 
Sarah  Jane  Marshall,  Augusta,  Ohio. 

STKUDEL. 

Strudel  is  the  national  pastry  dish  of  the  Bohemians  and  Hungarians.  It  is 
delicious  if  properly  made.  Never  attempt  to  make  a  strudel  with  baking- 
powder;  this  is  entirely  unknown  to  either  country.  Take  one  and  one  half 
pounds  of  sifted  floiu',  use  enough  lukewarm  water  to  make  a  stiff  dough,  work 
it  well  for  one  luilf  hour.  The  success  of  this  dish  lays  in  working  the  dough 
sufficiently.  Wlien  tliis  is  accomplished,  tloisr  the  board,  put  tlie  dougli  on  it, 
and  cover  it  by  upsetting  a  large  iron  crucible  thoroughly  hot,  and  let  it  remain 
th(>re  lUitil  cold;  in  the  meantime  flom*  a  table-cloth,  put  the  dough  in  the  center, 
and  witli  tlie  aid  of  another  person  pull  the  dough  as  thin  as  possil)le,  taking 
good  care  not  to  tear  it,  the  thinner  the  better;  paint  tlie  wiiole  witli  melted 
l)u1ter,  and  cover  with  the  following  mixture,  one  fourth  of  an  inch  thick: 
Chop  some  peeled  apples  finely,  add  enough  sugar  and  powdered  cinnamon  to 
suit  the  taste,  and  use  it  as  tlirected  above;  lift  one  side  of  the  table-clotli,  and 
tlie  dough  will  roll  into  one  round  roll;  cut  this  into  pieces  to  suit  the  baking- 
sheet,  egg  on  top,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  o^en. 

Eugpne  Stuyvesant  Howard,  Member  of  the  TTniversal  Cookery  anrl  Foorl  Association, 
London,  England,  and  Chef  de  Cuisine,  Louisville  Hotel,  Louisville,  Kentucky. 

MODERN  POTATO  PASTY. 

In  order  to  make  this  properly,  a  pasty-pan  must  be  procured  which  has  a 
well-fitting,  perforated  plate,  and  a  valve-pipe  to  screw  on.  This  can  be  had  at 
almost  any  tin-store,  and  will  cost  from  one  dollar  to  one  dollar  and  twenty-five 
cents.  The  meat,  seasoning  and  gravy  are  put  into  the  lower  part.  The  plate  is 
then  laid  on  the  meat,  the  valve-pipe  screwed  on,  and  mashed  potatoes  spread 
e(iually  on  the  top.  The  pasty  should  be  baked  iu  a  moderat*^  oven,  and  sent  to 
the  table  in  the  same  tin  in  which  it  was  baked,  which  should  have  a  neatly 
folded  napkin  pinned  around  it.  The  cover  shoukl  not  be  removed  until  the 
meat  is  to  be  served,  and  an  empty  dish  should  be  placed  in  readiness  for  it.    If 


234  PIES    AND    PUDDINGS. 

properly  baked,  the  potatoes  will  be  uicely  browued.  and  \\ill  be  tiavored  like  the 
meat.  'I'lie  eouteuts  of  this  pie  may,  of  course,  be  varied  imletiuitely.  Mutton  or 
veal  outlets,  pork  chops,  chickens  or  rabbits,  cut  into  neat  joints,  and  tish  of 
various  kinds  may  all  be  used,  and  will  be  found  excellent.  The  meat  should  be 
neatly  trimmed  and  nicely  seasoned,  and  a  small  quantity  of  gravy  poured  over 
it.  The  mashed  potatoes  should  form  a  crust  at  least  three  inches  thick.  Two 
pounds  of  meat  and  three  pounds  of  potatoes  Avill  make  a  moderate-sized  pasty. 
Sutticient  for  four  persons.  It  will  need  at  least  one  hour  to  cook  it  well.  In 
serving  it,  dish  the  meat  first,  then  lay  a  section  of  the  potato  pasty  upon  it, 
and  the  gravy  beside  it.  Never  put  gravy  over  a  serving  unless  requested  to 
do  so. 

rOTATO  PATTIES. 

Take  as  many  large,  Avellshaped  potatoes  as  it  is  intended  there  should  be 
patties,  Avash  Avell,  and  bake  them;  take  them  out  before  they  are  quite  done 
enough,  so  that  the  skin  may  not  be  injured,  carefully  cut  off  the  top,  and  scoop 
out  the  inside  with  a  spoon;  mix  AAith  the  floury  ])art  two  or  three  spoonfuls  of 
thick  cream,  a  little  piece  of  butter  and  a  pinch  of  salt,  together  with  sugar, 
lemon  or  cinnamon  tlavoriug.  and  the  yolks  and  Avhites  of  two  or  three  beaten 
eggs,  added  separately;  put  this  mixture  into  the  hoUoAv  potatoes,  place  them 
upright  side  by  side  in  a  buttered  dish,  and  bake  them  in  a.  hot  oven.  If  liked 
savory,  instead  of  potatoes,  patties  can  be  made  l»y  mixing  with  the  potato  tlour 
a  little  pounded  veal  and  ham,  and  cream,  salt,  lemon-peel,  grated  nutmeg  and 
mushroom  catsup  added  in  suitable  proportions.  Time  to  bake,  twelve  to 
fifteen  minutes.    When  meat  is  used,  cook  them  a  little  longer. 


Chapter  XIV. 


The  gi'eat  art  of  making  a  custard  lies  in  well  stirring,  and  when  this  is 
properly  managed,  a  custard  made  with  milk  and  the  quantity  of  eggs  given  in 
this  recipe  will  be  as  rich  as  one  made  with  cream  and  additional  eggs. 

Boil  a  pint  of  milk,  stir  in  two  ounces  of  lump-sugar,  or  sufficient  to  make 
the  custard  sweet  enough  for  the  purpose  required.  Have  ready  the  yolks  of 
three  eggs,  beaten  up,  pour  the  boiling  milk  on  tliem.  Put  the  stew-pan  con- 
taining the  custard  over  a  slow  fire,  slir  with  a  Mooden  spoon  as  briskly  as 
possible  for  twenty  minutes,  or  until  tliickening  has  commenced,  tlien  put  the 
stew-pan  on  the  coolest  part  of  the  range,  so  that  it  is  impossible  for  the  cus- 
tard to  simmer,  and  let  it  stand  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  stirring  it  occasionally. 
When  the  custard  is  ready,  poiu*  it  into  a  basin;  flavor  with  vanilla,  almond  or 
lemon.    Stir  the  custard  until  cool,  Avhich  will  pi'cvent  a  skin  forming  on  top. 

This  recipe  is  the  groundwork  for  all  creams  made  with  custard. 

For  creams  and  custards,  eggs  should  never  be  beaten  in  tin,  but  always  in 
stone  or  eartlien  ware,  as  there  is  some  chemical  influence  about  tin  which  pre- 
vents their  attaining  that  creamy  lightness  so  desirable. 

When  gelatin  is  used  for  creams,  it  is  better  to  soak  it  for  an  hour  in  luke- 
warm water  kept  in  a  warm  place. 

The  rule  for  custard  to  bake  is  four  eggs,  one  cupful  of  sugar  and  one  half 
teaspoonful  of  salt  to  a  quart  of  milk. 

235 


§36  cusiARbg  ANb  Desserts. 

Ciistai-d  should  always  be  baked  sloAvly  in  a  moderate  oven,  as  too  much  heat 
will  turn  it  to  Avhey. 

Boiled  custard  must  have  the  closest  attention  until  off  the  stove. 

Peach-leaves  or  vanilla-beans  give  a  fine  ilavor,  but  must  be  boiled  in  the 
milk,  and  then  taken  out  before  the  other  ingredients  are  added. 

In  boiling  custard,  always  use  a  double  vessel. 

Custards  are  nice  baked  in  small  cups  to  serve  to  each  persoii. 

In  the  use  of  spices,  remember  tliat  allspice  and  cloves  are  used  with  meatg> 
and  nutmeg  and  cinnamon  in  combination  with  sugar. 

The  white  part  of  the  lemon  under  the  rind  is  exceedingly  bitter,  and  only 
the  yellow  part  should  be  grated.  A  good  Avay  is  to  rub  the  rind  off  with  hard 
lumps  of  sugar.  The  sugar  thus  saturated  with  the  oil  of  the  lemon  is  called 
"zest,"  and  is  used,  when  pounded  fine,  for  creams,  etc. 

CHANTILLY  BASKET. 

Make  a  cement  of  sugar  boiled  to  a  crackling  height;  dip  the  edges  of  some 
macaroons  into  it,  and  line  a  mold  shaped  like  a  basket  with  them,  taking  care 


that  the  edges  of  the  macaroons  touch  each  other;  ^\'hen  wanted,  take  it  out  of 
the  mold,  fill  it  up  with  whipped  cream,  and  it  is  tlien  ready  for  the  table.  Time, 
two  or  three  hours  to  set. 

LEMON  CUSTARD. 

Six  eggs,  beaten  separately,  three  cnpfuls  of  sugar,  one  half  cupful  of 
butter,  four  cupfuls  of  water,  five  tablespoonfuls  of  corn-starch,  two  large 
lemons;  slice  the  lemons,  and  put  them  into  the  water  to  boil  until  the  strength 
is  extracted,  then  dip  them  out,  and  drain  the  water,  beat  the  yolks,  butter  and 
sugar  together,  and  pour  the  water  over  them;  return  to  the  jar, and  when  ready 
to  boil,  stir  in  the  starch;  beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  stir  in  lightly 
after  it  is  taken  off  the  stove. 

Mrs.  Carrie  Bell,  Eminence,  Kentucky. 

HAMBURG  CREAM. 

Take  the  rind  and  juice  of  two  large  lemons,  the  yolks  of  eight  eggs  and  one 
cupful  of  sugar;  put  all  into  a  bucket,  and  set  it  in  a  pan  of  boiling  water;  stir 
for  three  minutes;  take  from  the  fire,  add  the  well- beaten  whites  of  the  eggs, 
and  serve  when  cold  in  custard-glasses. 

Mary  E.  Arnginst,  Star  Prairie,  Wisconsin. 


CtTSTAftftg   AtTD   DESSEftTS. 


237 


4  es'ss,  beaten  separately, 

4  level  teaspooufuls  of  vanilla, 


SPANISH  CRKAM. 

1  (lu.lrt  of  milk, 
%  l)ox  of  jielatin* 

1  cupful  of  sugar: 

Soak  the  gelatin  in  the  tnilk  for  one  half  hour,  then  put  it  over  the  fire  in  a 
double  boiler;  beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  and  the  sugar  together,  and  When  the 
niillv  is  boiling,  stir  in  the  eggs,  and  cook  xmtil  il  begins  to  thicken;  beat  the 
Avhites  of  the  eggs  very  light,  and  stir  into  the  mixture  when  it  is  taken  off 
tlie  tire;  flavor,  and  pour  into  the  mold  to  cook;  beat  the  whites  well  into  the 
custard. 

Lola  Rust,  Winnepeg,  Maine. 

ITAIilAN  CREAM. 

2  eggs,  1  tablespoonful  of  corn-starcli, 
4  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  1  quart  of  milk. 

Boil  slowly  a  few  minutes,  stirring  it  to  keep  it  smooth;  take  tlie  whites  of 


(t  eggs,  beaten  stiff. 


%  teacupful  of  powdered  sugar. 


1  teaspoouful  of  lemon. 
Drop  this  float  from  a  spoon  on  the  custard.     If  put  into  a  glass  dish,  add 
smrll  teaspoonfuls  of  jelly,  dropped  on  the  top  of  the  float. 
Rosa  A.  Willey,  Deer  Fork,  Illinois. 

MINCE  PIE  A  LA  FRANCAISE. 

Prepare  one  pound  of  puff  paste,  roll  it  out  about  one  half  inch  thick,  and  cut 
it  into  two  pieces;  place  one  piece  on  a  wetted  baking-tin,  brush  it  over  with 


cold  water,  and  place  in  the  center  of  it  about  one  pound  of  mince-meat, 
forming  this  in  a  round,  flat  shape;  then  place  the  other  piece  of  paste  on  the 
top,  press  both  pieces  together,  put  a  meat-plate  on  the  top,  face  downward,  and 
with  a  sharp-pointed  knife  cut  the  paste  to  the  size;  remove  the  plate,  brush  the 
pie  over  with  raw  beaten-up  whole  egg,  and  mark  around  the  edge  and  in  the 
center  with  a  pretty  design  similar  to  that  shown  in  the  engraving;  put  the  pie 
into  a  quick  oven  for  about  ten  minutes,  then  take  up,  dust  it  all  over  with 
icing-sugar  with  a  dredge,  return  it  to  the  oven,  and  bake  for  about  thirty-five 
to  forty  minutes,  when  the  pie  should  be  a  pretty,  bright  golden  color;  dish  up 
on  a  hot  dish  on  a  dish-paper,  and  use  for  luncheo'h  or  dinner.  The  remains  of 
the  paste  can  be  used  for  small  mince  pies  or  any  dish  where  puff  paste  is 
needed. 


238 


CUSTARDS   AND   DESSERTS. 


TAPIOCA  CREAM. 

Soak  three  tablespoonfuls  of  tapioca  in  one  lialf  eupfnl  of  water  over  niglit; 
bring  one  quart  of  millc  to  a  boil,  then  put  in  the  tapioca;  when  cool,  add  the 
beaten  yolks  of  four  eggs  and  one  cupful  of  sugar;  pour  into  a  dish,  and  add 
the  beaten  whites. 

Stella.  ,  , 

APRICOTS  A  LA  CONDE. 

Apricots  d,  la  Conde. 
Put  one  lialf  pound  of  Carolina  rice  into  a  saucepan,  with  enough  cold  water 
to  cover  it,  let  it  come  to  a  boil,  then  sti-aiu,  and  wash  in  cold  water,  and  put  it 
back  into  the  saucepan,  adding  a  little  flnely  cut  lemon-peel  or  one  half  stick 
of  split  vanilla-pod,  one  and  one  half  pints  of  new  milk,  two  ounces  of  castor- 
sugar  and  one  ounce  of  fresh  butter;  when  it  comes  to  a  boil,  cover  over  with  a 
piece  of  buttered  paper  cut  to  fit  the  pan;  let  it  simmer  gently  without  being 
stirred  until  it  has  nearly  absorbed  all  of  the  milk,  then  add  another  fourth  of 
a  pint  of  milk;  when  the  rice  is  quite  cooked  and  all  the  grains  are  separate, 
have  a  wide  round  border-mold  well  buttered,  and  press  the  rice  well  down  into 
the  shape;  have  a  saute-pan  with  about  one  pint  of  boiling  water  in  it,  and 


stand  the  border  in  it,  then  place  it  in  the  oven  for  about  fifteen  minutes;  when 
the  rice  is  dry  at  the  top,  turn  it  out  onto  the  dish  it  is  to  be  served  on;  have  a 
hot  compote  of  apricots  ready,  and  place  them  neatly  on  top  of  the  rice;  garnish 
between  the  halves  of  the  apricots  with  shreds  of  uncrystallized  cherries  and 
narrow  strips  of  uncrystallized  angelica  that  is  cut  into  lengths  of  two  and  one 
half  to  three  inches,  place  the  angelica  around  tlie  edge  of  the  rice,  and  serve 
apricot  sauce  around  the  base  of  the  dish,  and  use  for  a  hot  sweet. 


PINEAPPLE. 

They  are  best  cut  into  dice  and  saturated  with  sugar,  then  piled  loosely  in  a 

glass  dish,  with  a  row  of  ladyflngers  around  the  edge  of  the  dish.     Or  slice  on  a 

slaw-cutter  or  very  thin  with  a  knife,  and  mix  with  finely  powdered  sugar.    Set 

on  ice  until  ready  to  serve. 

Winnie  Bassett. 

CODDLED  APPXES. 

Make  a  syrup  of  white  sugar  and  water;  throw  in  some  stick  cinnamon;  have 
sour  apples  pared  and  quartered,  and  when  the  sjrup  boils,  put  in  the  apples, 
and  boil  until  tender. 

Mrs.  J.  A.  H.,  Paris,  Kentucky. 


CUSTARDS    AND    DESSERTS. 


239 


Al'TLE  FLOAT. 

Peel  and  core  one  dozen  large  apples;  let  them  cook  until  they  can  be  pierced 
with  a  straw;  then  take  them  off,  and  beat  with  an  egg-beater  until  very  smooth, 
sweeten  to  taste,  and  add  the  well-beaten  A^hite  of  one  egg  to  every  cupful  of 
apple;  flavor  with  grated  nutmeg;  put  into  a  dish,  and  dot  over  with  small 
specks  of  red  jelly. 

Miss  Rosa  Sellers,  Lexington,  Virginia. 

BAKED  APPI-ES. 

Select  tart  apples,  pare,  cut  into  halves,  remove  the  cores;  bake  until  tender. 
For  a  large  panful  of  apples,  take  two  thirds  of  a  pint  of  thin  cream;  stir  in  one 
tablespoonful  of  sugar  and  one  level  tablespoonful  of  flour,  add  a  little  nutmeg 
or  lemon;  cook  this  syrup  a  short  time;  when  the  apples  are  done,  pour  it  over 
them.    Serve  aa  arm  or  cold. 

Mrs.  Nathan  Burgess,  Bartlett,  Ohio. 

APRICOT  MEIilXOFES. 
Merivgiies  (VA  hi^icot.s. 
Take  one  half  pound  of  finely  sifted  castor-sugar,  and  mix  witii  it  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  apricot  yellow  and  one  salt-spoonful  of  vanilla  essence;  rub  it  well 
togetlier,  and  allow  it  to  thoroughly  dry;  put  into  a  whipping-tin  four  large 
fresh  whites  of  egg  and  a  pinch  of  salt,  Avhip  them  quite  stiff,  then  add  the  pre- 


pared sugar  by  degTces.  taking  care  not  to  stir  the  mixture  more  than  possible 
after  adding  the  sugir.  Take  a  hot  baking-tin,  rub  it  all  over  with  white  wax. 
then  leave  it  until  <'old;  put  the  meringue  mixture  into  a  forcing-bag  Avith  a 
plain  pipe,  and  force  it  out  onto  the  tin  in  portions  of  about  the  size  of  apricots, 
dust  them  over  with  castor  sugar,  and  put  into  a  moderate  oven  until  quite  dry 
and  crisp  on  the  top,  but  the  under  side  sliould  be  somewhat  soft;  tlien  take  them 
from  the  tin,  and  by  means  of  an  egg  work  a  little  well  in  the  bottom  of  each, 
holding  tlie  top  of  the  meringue  in  the  hand;  return  them  to  the  tin.  and  place 
them  in  the  oven  (care  must  be  taken  that  the  meringues  are  not  hurried  in  the 
cooking  or  they  will  lose  their  color);  when  quite  dry.  remove  from  the  tin.  and 
set  aside  until  cold,  then  place  in  each  of  the  little  wells  a  small  round  of  cooked 
apricot;  place  another  meringue  on  the  top  of  this,  mask  them  over  wilii 
mai-aschino  glace  colored  Avith  a  little  apricot  yellow,  and  dish  up  around  a  pile 
of  stiffly  whipped  cream,  sweetened,  and  flavored  with  vanilla;  serve  as  a  dinner 
or  luncheon  sweet  or  for  any  cold  collation.  These  meringues  can  be  kept  ready 
for  use  if  put  into  a  dry  place. 


240 


CUSTAKDS    AND   DESSERTS. 


BANANA  FLOAT. 

Take  a  small  bo.x  of  gelatin,  and  dissolve  it  in  a  teacupful  of  cold  water  foi- 
an  hour;  boil  tliree  pints  of  sweet  niillv  and  two  and  one  lialf  teaeupfuls  of  sugar 
together,  dip  out  a  little  of  the  boiling  milli,  and  stir  it  into  the  gelatin,  then  stir 
this  into  the  rest  of  the  niillv,  and  boil  ten  minutes;  when  cool,  stir  in  six 
liananas  that  have  been  brolven  to  pieces  with  a  silver  fork,  mix  thorouglily, 
and  set  it  on  ice.  The  next  day,  an  hour  before  serving,  take  a  quart  of  rich 
cream,  sweeten  to  taste,  flavor  Avith  vanilla,  and  whip  it  well;  put  the  frozen 
bananas  into  a  glass  dish  or  bowl,  with  the  whipped  cream  on  top. 
Mrs.  C.  H.  K.,  Springfield,  Ohio. 

BASKET  A  LA  KOSSLYN. 
Corheille  a  la  Rosslyn. 
Take  a  basket-mold,  oil  it  Aveli,  and  line  it  with  nougat  paste  about  one  fourth 
of  an  incli  thick,  pressing  the  mixture  well  into  the  shape  of  thi?  mold;  trim  the 
edges  evenly,  and  when  the  nougat  is  somewhat  cool,  remove  it  from  the  mold, 
glaze  the  outside  with  pink-colored  maraschino  glace,  and  leave  until  set.  Pre- 
pare some  cutlets  of  Genoise  paste  (see  recipe),  also  a  round  of  the  same  cake 
the  size  of  the  interior  of  the  basket,  and  fill  up  with  raAv  fruits,  such  as 


apricots,  bananas,  melon,  etc.,  cnt  into  slices,  and  flavor  with  a  little  maraschino 
or  other  liquor  and  SAveetened  Avith  castor-sugar;  arrange  the  cutlets  around 
tlie  top  of  this,  as  shoAvn  in  tlie  engraAing.  garnish  the  edge  of  the  nougat  AA'ith 
pink  royal  icing,  using  a  forcing-bag  and  small  rose-pipe  for  the  purpose,  pile 
ui)  in  the  center  of  the  cutlets  some  sweetened  Avhipped  cream  flavored  Avith 
A'auilla,  disli  up  on  a  disli-paper,  garnisli  the  base  Avith  any  nice  crystallized 
fruits  or  composition  cliocolates,  and  serA'e  as  a  sweet  for  dinner  or  luncheon 
or  for  any  cold  collation. 

riNEAPFLIO  TRIFLE. 

Pai-e  and  cliop  finely  a  pineapple;  mix  aacII  A\'itli  it  one  cupful  of  sugar,  and 
put  to  stand  in  a  cool  place  from  tAA-o  to  three  hours.  Collect  all  bits  of  stale 
light  cake,  and  put  a  layer  of  the  cake  in  a  pretty  glass  dish,  then  a  layer  of 
pineapple,  and  so  on.  having  a  pineapple  as  the  last  layer;  Avhip  cream,  and  pile 
on  it  lightly;  sprinkle  oA^er  it  1)its  of  pineapple  cut  into  fancy  shapes. 

Miss  Angeline  M.  Weaver,  Instructor  Hyde  Sehool  Kitchen,  Boston.  Massachusetts. 


CUSTAEDS    AND    DESSERTS. 


241 


TKIKLE. 

Oue  iialf  pound  of  liulytiiijiors,  one  half  poiii^d  of  aliiioud  iiiatarooiis,  oiw 
half  pound  of  blanched  almonds,  one  half  pound  of  crystallized  cherries,  some 
delicate  jelly  or  jam,  a  little  wine,  one  pint  of  cream,  some  rose-watei-,  two 
quarts  of  milk.  Make  a  custard  of  the  milk,  eij-ht  e.uj;s,  two  cupfuls  of  su.i;ar 
and  oue  full  tablespoonful  of  tlour;  A\hen  the  milk  comes  to  a  boil,  have  tlie 
egfis  and  sui-ai"  beaten  very  li.uht,  put  the  Hour  into  it,  and  stir  in  tlie  liot  mill;: 
stir  constantly  over  the  lire  until  (luite  thick;  set  off  to  cool,  then  Havor  with 
vanilla.  Spread  the  ladylin.u'ers  A\ith  .icily,  and  put  into  a  hwixv  I)owl;  next 
come  the  macaroons  dipped  into  Avine  and  spr(>ad  with  jelly.  Blancli.  aiul  cut 
up  the  almonds,  pour  over  some  rose-water,  scatter  the  almonds  and  cliei-ries 
between  and  over  the  layers  of  <ake,  then  pour  over  the  custard;  .sweeten  and 
flavor  the  cream;  churn  it  as  in  the  syllabub;  when  done,  beat  stiff  the  whites 
of  two  eggs,  add  a  little  sugar  to  them,  mix  with  the  whii)ped  cream  (it  is  more 
solid  for  it),  pour  over  the  toj)  of  the  bowl,  garnish  with  crystallized  cherries. 
This  is  enough  for  twenty  people,  and  very  fine. 

Mrs.  A.  E.  Kirtland,  Author,  Montf^oinery,  Alabama. 

TKIFLES. 

Cut  into  slices  some  stale  cakes,  and  spread  with  jelly;  lay  them  in  a  glass 
dish,  and  cover  them  with  whipped  cream. 
Mrs.  L.  E.  R.,  Chesterfield,  Virginia. 

VAXILLA  BAVAROISE,  WITH  FRUITS. 

lidvdvoise    J'fwilh;  au.r  Fruits. 
Put   into  a  stew-pan  three   fourtlis   of  :i   pint   of  new   milk,  three  ounces  of 
castor-sugar,  a  split  pod  of  vanilla,  and  bring  to  a  boil;  stand  the  pan  in  tli(> 


bain-marie  for  al)out  tifteen  nunutes  to  infuse;  tlKMi  reinove  tlie  pod,  and  add 
one  half  otnice  of  gelatin,  and  when  dissolved,  stir  it  onto  three  raw  yolks  of 
eggs  that  are  mixed  up  in  a  basin;  then  return  the  mixture  to  the  stew-pan. 
and  stir  over  the  tire  until  it  thickens,  but  don't  let  it  hoil;  then  wring  it  tlu-ough 
the  tammy,  and  set  awa^'  until  somewhat  cool,  but  not  set;  then  mix  with  it 
rather  more  than  one  lialf  pint  of  stiffly  whipped  cream,  and  one  teaspoonful  of 
vanilla  essence  and  one  wine-glassful  of  brandy;  pour  into  any  fancy  mold,  and 
leave  until  set;  turn  out  on  a  dish,  and  garnish  with  a  macedoine  of  fruits,  using 
fresh  fruit  when  in  season.     Serve  for  dinner,  luncheon,  etc. 


242 


CUSTARDS    AND   DESSERTS. 


PLAIN  TRIFLE. 

Cut  stale  sponge-cake  (or  plain  cake  without  fruit)  into  slices  one  fourth  of 
an  inch  thick;  put  a  layer  of  cake  on  the  bottom  of  a  glass  dish,  then  a  thin 
layer  of  any  kind  of  jam  (raspberry  or  stra^\■berry  are  the  best),  then  another 
layer  of  cake;  pour  over  tlae  cake  tAvo  tablespoonfuls  of  sherry  or  any  other 
sweet  wiiite  wine,  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  cold  water;  then  add  more  jam 
and  cake,  piling  it  up  to  a  point  in  the  center  of  the  disli,  having  a  layer  of  jam 
on  top;  add  enough  wine  and  AAater  to  moisten  the  whole;  set  it  away  until 
half  an  hovir  before  serving  it.  Make  a  custard  with  one  half  pint  of  milk,  one 
egg,  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar  and  one  half  teaspoonful  of  vanilla;  Avhen  the 
milk  is  scalded,  add  it  by  degrees  to  the  well-beaten  egg  and  sugar;  eoolv  in  a 
double  boiler  about  five  minutes,  or  until  it  thiclvens  on  a  spoon;  it  must  be 
slowly  stirred  all  tlie  time;  strain  the  custard  Avhen  done,  add  the  flavoring, 
and  when  nearly  cold,  pour  it  over  the  cake.  Decorate  with  little  diamond 
shapes  of  currant  jelly. 

Mi.ss  Amabel  G.  E.  Hope,  Teacher  Boston  School  Kitchen  No.  1,  Boston. 

AMERICAN  MERINGUES. 

Meringues  ct  VAmericaine. 
Prepare  an  almond  icing,  and  form  it  into  little  cone  shapes;  place  these  on 
lightly  waxed  cool  balving-tius,  tlien  maslv  over  witli  the  meringue  mixture,  as 
belOAV,  using  two  separate  forcing-bags  and  plain  pipes  for  the  purpose,  and 


make  them  in  two  colors;  dust  over  tlie  meringues  with  icing-sugar,  and  place 
them  in  the  oven,  which  must  lie  of  very  moderate  heat,  for  about  one  and  one 
half  to  two  hours,  when  they  should  be  quite  dry  and  a  pretty  pale  color;  put 
them  aside  until  cold,  then  glaze  over  with  maraschino  or  noyau  glace,  one  in 
red,  one  in  white  or  brown  colors,  as  lilied;  let  them  dry  again  on  a  pastry-rack, 
and  then  dish  up  on  a  dish-paper  or  napkin,  and  sexwe  for  a  dinner  or  luncheon 
sweet 'or  for  any  cold  collation,  or  they  can  be  served  for  dessert.  They  also 
form  a  nice  sweet  witliout  the  glace,  being  then  served  with  whipped  cream. 

MKKINC4tTE     MiXTUKE     FOR     MfRINGUES    A    L'AMERICAINE. — Put    wllitCS     Of     tWO 

eggs  into  a  pan  with  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  whip  until  quite  stiff,  tlien  mix  with 
one  fourth  of  a  pound  of  castor-sugar;  place  a  similar  quantity  of  eggs  into 
another  pan,  add  a  few  drops  of  carmine,  whip  until  quite  stiff,  then  mix  with 
one  fourth  of  a  pound  of  castor-sugar,  and  use. 


CUSTARDS   AND   DESSERTS.  243 

MUSHROOM  MERINGUES. 

Champignons  Meringues. 
Wliii)  four  whites  of  egss  vory  stiff,  witli  a  pincli  of  salt,  and  mix  witli  it  one 
lialf  pound  of  eastor-sugar,  takinj^  care  not  to  worli  tlie  ojLCi>s  more  than  possible 
after  tlie  sugar  is  mixed  in;  then  put  it  into  a  forcing-bag  with  a  plain  pipe 
about  one  half  inch  in  diameter,  and  have  two  baking-tins  warmed  and  rubbed 
over  with  a  little  white  wax;  when  the  tins  are  cool,  take  one  of  them  and  force 
the  meringue  out  onto  it  in  little  rounds  for  making  the  tops  of  the  mushrooms, 
juid  then  dust  them  over  immediately  with  icing-sugar,  and  put  them  into  a 
very  sloAV  oven  to  dry  for  three  or  four  Incurs;  i)ut  some  more  of  the  mixture  into 
a  forcing-b;ig  with  a  pipe  about  one  eighth  of  an  inch  in  diameter,  taid  force  it 
out  into  shnpes  to  form  tlie  stalks  of  the  mushrooms,  and  then  dust  those  over 
Avitli  icing-sugar,  and  cook  them  in  the  same  way  as  the  others;  when  they  are 
quite  dry,  take  the  large  pieces  of  meringue,  and  make  a  little  round  hole  about 
the  size  of  a  pea  in  the  center,  using  a  small  knife  for  the  purpose;  force  inside 
this  a  little  royal  icing,  and  then  very  lightly  brush  over  the  part  of  the  meringue 


that  was  on  the  baking-tin  with  a  little  raw  white  of  egg,  and  dip  into  it  some 
finely  grated  chocolate,  and  brusli  over  the  flat  part  of  the  larger  pieces  with  a 
little  raw  white  of  egg,  and  then  dip  into  poAvdered  chocolate;  let  this  get  quite 
dry,  stick  the  small  part  of  the  meringue  as  a  stalk  into  the  space  formed  by  the 
knife,  and  then  dish-up  the  muslirooms  on  a  basket  partly  filled  with  spun  sugar, 
artillcial  moss  or  maiden-hair-feru  leaves,  and  serve  for  dessert;  or  tlie  mush- 
rooms can  be  dished  up  on  a  pile  of  very  stitfly  whipped  ci'eam  that  is  sweetened 
and  flavored  with  vanilla  essence,  which  can  be  colored,  if  liked,  with  a  little 
carmine.  The  mushrooms,  if  kept  in  a  dry  place,  will  keep  for  a  considerable 
time. 

STRAWBERRY  CHARLOTTE. 

Make  a  boiled  custard  witli  one  quart  of  milk,  yolks  of  six  eggs  and  three 
fourths  of  a  cupful  of  sugar,  flavored  to  taste.  IJiie  a  glass  dish  with  slices  of 
sjionge-cake  dipped  into  sweet  cream,  lay  on  tliein  ripe  strawberries  sweetened 
to  taste;  then  a  layer  of  cake  and  strawberries  as  before;  when  the  custard  is 
cold,  pour  over  the  whole;  then  beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  add 
a  little  sugar  and  pour  over  the  top.    Decorate  Avitli  some  ripe  bex'ries. 


^44 


CUSTAEbS   AND   DESSEMS. 


CHARLOTTE  KUSyE. 

Line  a  plain  mold  Avith  a  well-oiled  paper  all  over,  trim  some  linger  sponge^ 
cakes,  and  place  them  all  around  the  mold  close  together;  then  prepare  a  cus' 
tard  to  fill  up  the  center,  put  in  ratlier  more  than  one  fourth  of  a  pint  of  milk, 
just  bring  it  to  a  boil,  with  two  ounces  of  sugar  and  a  piece  of  split  vanilla- 
pod,  then  stand  in  the  bain-marie  to  infuse;  or  th(}  custard  can  be  flavored  with 
vanilla  or  other  essence;  when  cool,  dissolve  in  it  one  fourth  of  an  ounce  of 
finest  gelatin  leaf,  stir  it  onto  two  raw  yolks  of  egg;  thicken  over  the  fire,  but 
.do  not  let  the  custard  boil  after  the  eggs  are  added;  strain,  and  when  cool,  add 
a  good  one  fourth  of  a  pint  of  thickly  whipped  cream  and  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  maraschino  or  noyau  syrup,  fill  up  the  mold  with  it,  and  when  set,  turn  out 
and  remove  the  oiled  paper;  serve  on  a  dish-paper.  The  charlotte  can  be  gar- 
nished with  wliipped  cream  around  the  dish  by  means  of  a  bag  and  fancy  pipe. 

Gustave.Beraud,  Chef  of  Calumet  Club,   Chicago,  Formerly  Chef  of  William  Astoj » 
New  Yofk. 

TIME  A  L  OF  CHESTNUTS  A  LA  CANNES. 

Timbale  de  Merrons  d,  la  Cannes. 

Take  one  and  one  half  pounds  of  chestnuts  pi'epared  as  for  puree  of  chest- 
nuts; mix  quickly  into  this  puree  two  ounces  of  castor-sugar,  one  good  table- 
spoonful  of  thick  cream,  eight  to  ten  drops  of  essence  of  vanilla,  one  raw  white 


of  egg,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  orange-flower  water  and  one  tablespoonful  of 
brandy,  and  work  up  into  a  ball;  then  carefully  roll  it  out  about  one  fourtii  of 
an  inch  thick,  sprinkling  it  with  little  icing-sugar,  and  stamp  out  in  small 
heart  shapes  or  rounds  or  rings;  place  these  on  a  baking-tin  in  a  screen  until 
they  are  quite  dry  on  the  surface;  then  dip  each  piece  separately  into  boiled 
sugar  (see  recipe),  let  this  set;  then  stick  the  pieces  together,  as  shown,  to  form 
a  shape,  and  garnish  it  in  some  pretty  design  with  pink  and  white  icing,  using 
a  forcing-bag  and  pipe  for  the  purpose;  then,  when  cold,  fill  up  with  cream,  as 
below,  and  garnish  with  spun  sugar  (see  recipe),  and  use  for  a  fancy  sweet. 

Vanilla  Cream  for  Timbal  of  Chestnuts  a  la  Cannes. — Whip  stiff  one 
pint  of  double  cream,  sweeten  it  with  four  ounces  of  castor-sugar,  and  flavor 
with  eight  or  ten  drops  of  vanilla  essence.  Part  of  this  c-an,  if  liked,  be  colored 
brown  or  red  before  using. 


CUSTARDS   AND   DESSERTS.  2it) 

LITTLE  MOKAS. 
Pelits  Mokas. 
Put  into  a  stew-pan  four  whole  fresh  e.tjss,  six  ounces  of  castor-sugar,  the 
finely  chopped  peel  of  one  lemon  and  a  few  drops  of  A'anilla  essence;  Avhip  these 
over  boiling  water  until  warm,  then  remove  the  pan  from  the  fire,  and  whip  the 
contents  until  cold  and  thick.  Have  four  ounces  of  fine  flour  passed  through  a 
sieve  and  warmed,  and  mixed  witli  tlie  above  ingredients,  stirring  the  mixture 
aS  little  as  possible  after  tlie  flour  is  added.  Brush  over  a  saute-pan  with  warm 
butter,  line  it  with  a  buttered  paper,  dust  this  over  witli  fine  fiour  and  castor- 
sugar  mi.xed  in  equal  quantities,  and  tlien  put  in  the  prepared  mixture;  bake 
it  in  a  moderate  oven  for  one  half  hour,  then  turn  it  otit  of  the  pan,  and  leate 
it  until  cold;  cut  the  cake  into  square  pieces,  and  very  lightly  mask  these 
over  with  coffee  icing,  tlif  n  dip  each  into  almonds  prepared  as  below,  ornament 
the  top  with   Vienna  icing  colored   with   a  little   black  coffee;  sprinkle   with 


chopped  pistachios,  and  dish  up  the  molcas  on  a  dish-paper,  as  shown  in  the 
engraving,  and  serve  for  luncheon,  dinner,  etc. 

Almonds  for  Liitle  Mokas.— Take  some  blanched   Valencia  almonds,   cut 
them  into  small  dice  shapes,  and  bake  until  a  nice  golden  color. 

DISH  OF  SNOW. 

Gi'ate  a  cocoanut,  having  out  tlie  brown  ])arf;  heap  it  up  in  the  center  of 
a  handsome  dish,  and  ornament  with  fine  green  leaves,  such  as  peach  or  lioney- 
suckle.  Serve  it  up  with  snow  cream  made  in  this  way:  Beat  the  whites  of 
five  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  two  large  spoonfuls  of  fine  white  sugar,  one  large 
spoonful  of  rose-water  or  pineapple;  beat  the  whole  well  together,  and  add  one 
pint  of  thick  cream;  put  several  spoonfuls  over  each  dish  of  cocoanut. 
Mrs.  T.  V.  R.,  Sedalia,  Missouri. 

FLOATING  ISLAND. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  until  very  light;  sweeten  and  flavor  to  taste; 
stir  into  a  quart  of  boiling  milk,  cook  until  it  thickens;  wlien  cool,  pour  into  a 
low  glass  dish;  wliip  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  sweeten,  lay  them 
in  spoonfuls  upon  boiling  water  for  two  or  tliree  minutes,  tlien  put  upon  the 
custard  far  enough  apart  so  that  the  "little  white  islands"  will  not  touch  each 
other.  A  pleasing  effect  will  be  produced  by  dropping  little  specks  of  bright 
jelly  on  each  island;  also,  filling  glasses  with  it,  and  arranging  around  the  stand, 
adds  to  the  appearance  of  the  table.  Set  upon  ice  to  get  cold. 
Mrs.  Ellen  K.  B.,  Bellevne,  Ohio. 


246 


CUSTARDS   AND   DESSERTS. 


FAKINA  MELUSINK,   WITH  AriM.ES. 

Bring"  ouo  quart  of  milk  to  a  boil,  add,  stii-ring  coustautly.  one  cupful  of 
farina,  and  stir  until  It  forms  into  a  stiff  i)aste  and  loosens  itself  from  the 
hoi  torn  of  llie  saucepan;  transfer  it  to  a  disli;  when  cold,  stir  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  huttiH"  to  a  cream,  and  add  alternately  the  yoll<s  of  six  eggs,  llie  farina,  four 
lMblesi)oonfuls  of  sugar,  the  rind  of  one  lemon  and  lastly  the  beaten  Avhites; 
pare  and  core  eight  largo,  tart  apples,  put  them  into  a  long  pan  over  the  tire, 
add  one  quart  of  boiling  water,  cover  with  another  pan  of  the  same  size,  and 
steam  them  five  minutes— no  longer;  tlien  remove  carefully,  lay  them  in  a  long- 
sliaped  pudding-dish,  put  one  tablespoonful  of  jelly  into  each  apple,  and  pour 
tlie  farina  mixture  over  so  that  the  apples  are  entirely  covered:  bake  in  a 
medium-hot  oven  about  three  quarters  of  an  lioin-,  and  serve  with  the  following 
sauce:  Stir  two  tablespoonfids  of  l)utter  with  one  cupful  of  powdered  sugar  to 
a  cream,  add  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  rum  or  cognac,  a  little 
nutmeg,  and  lastly  the  whites  beat(ni  to  a  stiff  frotli.  Sulticient  for  family  of 
eight  persons. 

Mrs.  Gesliie  Leiucke,  Principal  of  the  Gernum-Ainerican  Cooking  College,  Brooklj'n. 

P^RUIT  ON  CAKES  A  LA  PARTSIENNE. 

Crotltcs  (iitx  ci  Id  rarisioine. 

Cut  some  cake  into  slices  al>out  one  half  inch  thick,  and  stamp  out  in  roiinds 
about  three  inches  in  diameter, place  them  on  a  buttered  tin, dust  them  over  with 


icing-sugar,  and  place  tliem  in  llie  oven  until  quite  crisp.  Arrange  on  the 
cronies  half  peaclies  or  sliced  pineapple,  and  disli  ihem  around  the  dish  for  a 
border,  .-uid  pile  up  in  the  center  any  nice  fruits,  such  as  cherries,  strawberries, 
skinned  and  stoned  grapes  or  any  other  fruit  you  may  have,  and  Avlieu  ready  to 
serve,  pour  over  all  the  fruits  a  sauce  of  apricots  or  any  other  nice  fruit;  garnish 
-with  spun  sugar,  and  serve  for  a  dinner  sweet  or  for  lunclieon  or  for  a  cold 
collation. 

S.VUCE  FOR  P^KtTiT  ON  Cakes  A  LA  Paeisienne.— One  pot  of  apricot  jam,  four 
ounces  of  castor-sugar,  one  salt-spoonful  of  apricot  yellow,  one  salt-spoonful  at 
li(iuid  carmine,  one  fourth  of  a  pint  of  water:  boil  togetlier  for  about  ten 
minutes,  rub  tlu'ough  a  sieve  or  tainmy.  add  a  large  wine-glassful  of  maraschino 
or  chartreuse  liquor,  and  use. 


CUSTARDS    AND    DESSERTS. 


247 


(:UAIUA)TT\<:  A   LA  I'RINCESSE. 

•  ( '/larlotie  ft  la  Princesse. 

Line  a  plnln  mold  with  lightly  oiled  pai^'r.  arraiif^o  spoiiKf  or  vanilla  cakes 
all  around  it,  then  fill  up  with  good  vanilla  havaroise,  as  below,  mixed  with 
two  ounces  of  any  nice  fruits  cut  into  shreds;  when  set,  turn  out,  and  ornament 
with  Vi<'nna  icinK  in  pink  and  wliitt',  usin;?  forcin^-haKS  with  fancy  pipes;  serve 
on  a  fancy  dish-paper  for  a  dinner  or  luncheon  sweet. 

Vanilla  Bavakoise  von  C'hahlottk  a  la  Prlncesse.— Take  one  and  one 
half  gills  of  boiled  milk,  witli  vanilla-i)od  and  two  ounces  of  castor-sugar,  niix 
when  boiling  with  one  fourlli  of  an  ounce  of  gelatin;  then  stir  onto  two  raw 


yolks  of  eggs,  return  to  the  stew-pan,  and  stir  over  the  fire  until  it  tiiickens: 
then  tammy,  and  when  cool,  add  one  half  pint  of  whipped  cream,  one  wine- 
glassful  of  brandy  and  one  of  any  other  liquor,  and  use. 

STEWED  PEAKS,  AMTII   \AX1LLA   SAUCE. 

Peel  the  stewing-pears,  and   put  them    into   a    siew-pan,    with   (>nough   cold 

water  to  cover  them,  add  twelve  ounces  of  sugar  to  each  (juarter  of  watcn*,  a 

little  piece  of  cinnamon,  a  little  lemon-peel  and  a  few  drops  of  liquid  carmin(N 

cook  for  two  and  one  half  hours,  gently  simmering,  take  them  up,  and  let  them 

cool;  reduce  the  syrup  in  Avhicli  they  were  cooked  to  the  consistency  of  a  single 

cream;  when  the  pears  are  cold,  stanq)  out  the  cores  with  a  long  vegetaJ)le-cutter. 

and  fill  up  the  centers  with  stifliy  wliipi»ccl  cream   flavored  Avith   vanilhi  and 

sweetened,  using  a  forcing-bag  and  rose-pipe  for  tlie  ]>urpose;  sprinkle  them  witli 

finely  shredded,  blan<-hed  sweet  almonds  or  pistachios;  dish  up,  and  pour  the 

syrup  around  them.    This  is  a  nice  luncheon  or  dinner  sweet. 

Gustave  F.eraud,  Chef  «)f  Calumet  Club,  Chicago,  Formerly   Chef  of  William  Astor, 
New  York. 

BLACKBEItRY  FLT^MMEKY. 

To  one  pint  of  blackl)crries  add  one  pint  of  water;  boil  vintil  tender,  and  tlien 
add 

]  cupful  of  sugar,  4  tablespoonfuls  of  corn-starcli. 

A  pinch  of  salt. 

Stir  until  it  boils;  flavor  to  taste.    To  be  eaten  with  cream  and  sugar. 
Mrs.  J.  B.  Schoonover,  Bush  Hill,  Pennsylvania. 


248  CUSTARDS   AND    DESSERTS. 

ORANGE  DESSERT. 

Pare  five  or  six  oranges,  cut  into  tliin  slices;  pour  over  them  a  coffee-cifliful 
of  sugar;  boil  one  pint  of  millv;  adrl,  while  boiling,  the  yolks  of  three  eggs,  one 
tablespoonful  of  coru-starch  (made  smooth  with  a  little  cold  milk);  stir  all  the 
time;  as  soon  as  thickened,  pour  over  the  fruit;  beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a 
froth,  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar,  pour  over  the  custard,  and 
brown  in  the  oven.     Serve  cold. 

Lulu  Plummer,  New  Athens,  Ohio. 

TIMBAL  A  LA  CHRISTINA. 

Tbnbale  a  la  Christina. 
Well  oil  a  timbal  or  turban  mold,  and  line  it  with  nougat  paste,  trim  off  the 
edges,  and  set  aside  until  cold,  remove  the  case  from  the  mold,  mask  it  over 
on  the  outside  Avith  maraschino  glace,  using  a  forcing-bag  and  small  rose-pipe 
for  the  purpose,  and  garnishing  around  the  edges  with  shredded  pistachio-nuts; 
fill  up  the  inside  with  chestnut  cream  prepared  as  below,  using  a  forcing-bag 


and  large,  plain  pipe  for  the  purpose;  garnish  the  top  of  tbi«  with  whipped 
cream  colored  red  and  white,  forming  it  into  roses  by  means  of  a  forcing-bag 
with  a  large  rose-pipe;  sprinkle  lightly  with  shredded  pistachio  and  crystallized 
rose-leaves,  garnish  the  center  with  spun  sugar  (see  recipe),  and  serve  for  a 
dinner-party  sweet. 

Chestnut  Cream  for  Timbal  a  la  Christina.— Prepare  one  pound  of  chest- 
nut puree,  mix  with  it  four  ounces  of  castor-sugar,  one  tablespoonful  of  brandy, 
the  same  of  orange-flower  Avater,  one  teaspoonful  of  A^anilla  essence  and  the 
fine'y  chopped  peel  of  a  lemon,  one  half  pint  of  stiffly  whipped  cream,  and  use. 

BAVARIAN  CREAM,  WITH  STRAWBERRY. 

Pick  over  Iaa^o  quarts  of  strawberries,  squeeze  them  through  a  colander,  and 
add  two  leA^el  cupfuls  of  white  sugar;  when  the  sugar  is  all  dissolved,  add 
one  ounce  or  three  tablespoonfuls  of  gelatin  that  has  been  soaking  an  hour  in 
one  half  cupful  of  tepid  water;  place  it  on  the  ice,  stir  it  smooth,  and  Avhen  it 
begins  to  set,  stir  in  one  pint  of  whipped  cream,  put  it  into  molds,  and  serve 
with  the  whole  straAA'berries  around  it. 
"  Hazel  Kirk." 


CUSTARDS   AND   DESSERTS. 


249 


PILAU  A  LA  CJRKCCiUK. 
Pilau  p  la  Grecque. 

*Ciiko  one  half  poiuul  of  Patna  rico,  bLincli  it,  and  ^A-ash  well  in  cold  water, 
put  it  bac'lv  into  tlie  stew-pan,  witli  two  onnees  of  witrni  butter  and  one  and  one 
half  pints  of  light  stock,  put  a  hunch  of  lu'rbs  on  Ihe  top,  cover  with  a  buttered 
paper,  and  sinuner  gvnily  until  tender,  which  will  talce  about  one  hour,  adding 
a  little  more  stock  if  needed;  then  turn  out  some  of  the  rice  to  form  a  border; 
put  the  ragout  in  tlie  center,  then  poiu-  arouud  the  edge  of  the  dish  a  puree  of 
tomatoes,  and  sprinkle  over  a  little  saffron  shreds  and  raw  cliopi)ed  parsley, 
and  some  thinly  cut  slices  of  raw  lemon  all  around  as  a  border.  Serve  for 
luncheon  or  dinner. 

Ragout  for  Pilau  a  i.a  (irecque.— Take  some  cold  game  or  poultry,  cut  into 
neat  dice  shapes,  and  season  with  salt  and  one  and  one  half  ounces  of  grated 


I XII f  1*1 1  Ilia  ■  <^  -^i- 


Parmesan  cheese  and  a  dust  of  pepper,  and  mix.  Take  four  onions,  peel, 
and  cut  tlieni  into  tiny  dice  shapes,  two  ounces  of  butter,  two  ounces  of  lean 
raw  bacon  cut  into  dice  shapes,  fry  together  until  a  nice  golden  color;  mix 
with  one  ounce  of  fine  flour,  add  three  fourths  of  a  pint  of  good-flavored  stock, 
and  simmer  until  tender;  add  the  cut  chicken,  etc.,  boil  up,  and  use. 


APPLE  CHARLOTTE. 

Select    six    medium-sized    Newton    pippins,    peel,    core,    and    cut    them    into 

quarters;  put  them  into  a  large  saucepan,  with  two  ounces  of  fresh  butter  and 

four  ounces  of  powdered  sugar,  and  ])lace  over  a  moderate  fire;  toss  them  for  two 

minutes,  then  moisten  with  a  gill  of  white  Avine,  and  grate  with  the  peel  of  one 

half  lemon;  cover  the  saucepan,  and  let  it  cook  for  ten  minutes,  so  that  the  liquid 

be  almost  entirely  absorbed  by  the  apples;  remove  from  the  fire,  and  put  aside 

to  cool.    Take  a  three-pint  charlotte-mold,  line  it,  beginning  at  the  bottom,  with 

cut  slices  of  American  bread  the  thickness  of  a.  silver  dollar;  glaze  them  well 

with  melted  butter,  using  a  brush  for  the  purpose,  and  sprinkle  powdered  sugar 

lightly  over;  then  line  the  sides  to  the  edge  in  the  same  Avay;  fill  the  mold  "with 

prepared  apples,  and  cover  with  slices  of  bread;  lay  it  on  a  baking-pan, and  place 

it  in  a  brisk  oven  for  forty-flve  minutes,  or  until  the  bread  be  a  golden  color, 

then  take  it  out,  lay  a  hot  dessert-dish  on  top,  turn  it  over,  and  remove  the 

mold.     Heat  in  a  saucepan  two  ounces  of  apricot  m:irmalade,  with  two  talile- 

spoonfuls  of  maraschino  and  one  of  water;  mix  well,  i)our  it  over  the  charlotte. 

and  serve  very  hot. 

Gustave  Beraud,  Chef  of  Calumet  Club,  Chicago,  Formerly  Chef  of  William  Astor, 
New  York. 


250  CUSTAKDS   AND    DESSERTS, 

SEA-MOSS  FAKINE. 

This  comes  in  small  packages  in  a  fine  pawder.  Take  one  level  tablespoonful 
to  cue  quart  of  milk;  set  on  the  milk  to  boil,  with  one  cupful  of  sugar  and  a 
pinch  of  salt;  mix  the  moss  farine  smooth  with  a  little  cold  milk,  stir  into  the 
milk,  and  stir  constantly  until  it  boils;  it  must  cook  in  a  double  vessel;  let  it 
boil  only  ten  minutes;  pour  into  a  mold,  and  let  it  get  cold.  Eat  with  cream. 
Flavor  with  vanilla.  • 
Christie  Irving. 

BISQUE  GLACE. 

Make  a  rich  ice-cream  in  the  proportion  of  one  half  gallon  of  cream  and  three 
fourths  of  a  pound  of  sugar.  Take  one  and  one  half  dozen  of  stale  macaroons  or 
one  dozen  stale  egg-kisses,  pour  a  little  creajn  over  them,  and  allow  them  to 
stand  until  they  soften;  beat  until  very  fine.  As  the  cream  freezes,  stir  in  the 
moistened  cakes. 

Mrs.  C.  S.  K.,  Springfield,  Ohio. 

LITTLE  BASKETS  A  LA  LAVANUE. 

Petites  Corheilles  d  la  Lavenue. 

Prepare  some  Genoise  paste  (see  recipe),  and  fill  about  three  parts  full  some 

little  molds;  place  the  tins  on  a  baking-sheet,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for 

twenty-five  to  thirty  minutes;  then  turn  out,  and  when  cool,  cut  out  the  inside 


with  a  small  knife  to-  make  a  hollow,  leaving  the  edges  one  eighth  of  an  inch 
thick;  place  inside  the  space  thus  formed  one  leas^-poonful  of  apricot  jam  or 
other  nice  preserve;  mask  the  outside  of  the  molds  with  a  little  apricot  jam, 
and  then  sprinkle  over  the  jam  some  blanched  and  finely  chopped  pistachio-nuts; 
ornament  the  edges  with  a  little  icing  by  means  of  a  forcing-bag  and  small 
rose-pipe;  cut  some  uncrystallized  angelica  in  lengths  of  about  five  inches,  and 
about  one  fourth  of  an  inch  thick,  and  place  these  over  the  molds,  lodging  them 
between  the  cake  and  the  jam,  so  as  to  forui  handles;  whip  some  cream  very 
stiffly,  sweeten  it,  and  fiavor  with  vanilla  essence,  and  by  means  of  a  forcing- 
bag  and  a  large  rose-pipe  partly  fill  up  the  inside  of  the  molds,  cover  the  jam 
entirely,  and  form  the  cream  into  a  rose  pattern,  on  which  sprinkle  very 
lightly  a  little  red-colored  sugar  made  by  mixing  a  little  liquid  carmine  with 
some  castor-sugar;  dish  up,  and  serve  for  a  dinner  or  luncheon  sweet  or  for  any 
cold  collation. 


CUSTARDS    AND    DESSERTS. 


251 


FLElJit,  WITH  MEIIIN(;UE. 

Fleitr  cm  Meringue. 
Have  a  plain  or  fancy  tieiir-ring  buttrrod,  and  place  it  on  a  buttered  paper 
on  a  baking-tin,  line  the  ring  with  short  paste,  prick  it  Avell  on  the  bottom  to 
prevent  it  blistering,  trim  it  off  (>v(>nly  around  the  edges  of  the  ring  with  a 
knife,  and  partly  fill  up  the  inside  with  a  pastry  custard;  put  a  few  little  pieces 
of  butter  here  and  there  on  I  he  top  to  keep  it  moist,  and  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  for  twenty-five  to  thirty  minutes,  when  th(^  custard  should  be  a  pretty 
golden  color;  then  remove  the  fleur-ring,  and  maslc  tlie  top  of  the  custard  over 
Avith  a  layer  of  any  nice  jam;  fill  up  the  fleur  with  a  stiff"  meringue  mixture, 
putting  it  on  ornamentally  by  means  of  a  forcing-bag  and  pipe,  then  dust  over 
with  icing-sugar  from  a  dredge,  and  place  it  in  a  moderate  oven  for  twelve  to 


fifteen  minutes  to  dry;  then  arrange  neatly  on  the  top  some  nice  dried  or  fresh 
fruits,  such  as  strawberries  or  cherries,  dish  on  a  paper  or  napkin,  and  serve  for 
a  dinner  or  luncheon  sweet  or  for  any  cold  collation. 


FPtENCII  RICE. 
Cook  slowly  in  a  double  boiler 

1/4  pound  of  rice,  1  teacupful  of  sugar, 


1  lemon,  the  gratint 
1/2  pint  of  milk. 


1  tablespoonful  of  butter, 
i/o  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
1  pint  of  water. 
When  quite  soft,  remove  from  the  fire.  ai.id  stir  in  two  well-beaten  eggs;  bake 
twenty  minutes  in  a  pudding-dish,  with  crumbs  on  top  of  the  mixture. 


ArPLE  DAINTY. 

Wipe,  quarter,  pare  and  core  apples;  to  each  pint  allow  one  third  of  a  cupful 
of  sugar,  one  third  of  a  cupful  of  cold  water,  a  speck  of  cloves;  put  into  an 
earthen  dish,  cover  tightly,  and  bake  slowly  eight  or  ten  hours;  when  candied 
and  deep  red  in  color,  pile  lightly  on  a  dish,  pour  over  it  a  boiled  custard  made 
with  three  yolks,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  one  half  teaspoonful  of  vanilla 
and  one  pint  of  scalded  milk;  pile  lightly  over  this  the  three  whites  beaten  with 
one  tablespoonful  of  powdered  sugar  and  .a  drop  of  vanilla. 

Miss  Angelinc  M.  Weaver,  Instructor  Hyde  Scliool  Kitchen,  Boston,  Massachusetts, 


252 


CUSTARDS    AND   DESSERTS. 


OKANGE  SOUFFLE. 

Peel  and  slice  six  oranges;  put  into  a  glass  dish  a  layer  of  oranges,  then  one 
of  sugar,  and  so  on  until  all  the  orange  is  used,  and  let  stand  two  hours;  make 
a  soft-boiled  custard  of  yolks  of  three  eggs,  one  pint  of  milk,  sugar  to  suit  the 
taste,  with  grating  of  orange-peel  for  flavor;  pour  over  the  orange  when  cool 
enough  not  to  break  the  dish;  beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  stir  in 
sugar,  and  put  over  the  pudding. 

Kate  Kilbourne,  Indianapolis,  Indiana. 

FLOWER  CASES  A  LA  CREME. 
Bouquetiers  cl  la  Oreme. 
Make  some  nougat;  when  cooked,  turn  the  mixture  onto  an  oiled  slab,  roll  it 
out  with  an  oiled  rolling-pin,  and  line  some  oiled  dariol-molds  with  it  very  thinly, 
pressing  well  to  the  shapes;  trim  the  edges,  and  when  cool,  turn  out  of  the^ 
molds,   and   mask  them   lightly   over  the   outsides   with   royal   icing   which    is 
colored  with  a  little  carmine  or  cherry  red;  sprinkle  this  over  with  red-colored 


sugar,  and  ornament  the  edges  of  the  bouquetiers  with  white  rojj^al  icing  by 
sugai',  then  pears,  and  so  on  until  the  jar  is  full;  then  put  in  as  much  water  as 
pistachio-nuts,  and  when  ready  to  serve,  fill  up  the  centers  with  whipped  cream, 
and  garnish  the  top  with  crystallized  rose-leaves  and  violets.  Serve  on  a  dish- 
paper  or  napkin  for  a  dinner  or  luncheon  sweet  or  for  any  cold  collation. 

BAKED  PEARS. 

Place  in  a.  stone  jar  first  a  layer  of  pears  (without  paring),  then  a  layer  of 
sugar,  then  pears,  and  so  on  until  the  jar  is  full;  then  put  in  as  much  water  as 
it  will  hold;  bake  three  hoiu's. 
Nettie  R.,  Wyoming. 

BLANC-MANGE. 

One  quart  of  sweet  milk,  three  tablespoonfiils  of  sugar,  and  boil  together; 
then  pour  into  this  five  tablespoonfuls  of  corn-starch,  two  eggs;  beat  the  eggs 
with  the  corn-starch;  flavor  to  suit  the  taste,  and  stir  quickly  before  pouring 
into  the  molds. 

Mrs.  N.  A-  p.,  Ridgeway,  South  Carolina, 


CUSTARDS    AND    DESSERTS. 


253 


CHAKLOTTE  KUSSE. 

I  suppose  every  one  has  a  syllabub  churn.  If  not,  procure  one  from  yoiu- 
tinner.  It  is  also  calkd  a  whip  churn.  Take  one  pint  of  sweet,  fresh  cream, 
ohurn  it,  and  as  rhe  froth  rises,  skim  off  into  a  bowl,  as  much  liquid  cream  will 
run  from  it  which  can  be  churned  asain.  You  will  find,  too,  it  will  become  too 
thick  to  churn;  then  pour  in  sweet  milk  to  thin  the  cream,  and  it  will  churn 
beautifully.  After  it  is  all  churned  and  skimmed  off  into  another  boAvl  to  avoid 
the  settlings,  stir  gently  througli  it  one  half  cupful  of  sugar;  have  ready  in  soak 
one  box,  or  a  little  less,  of  gelatin  in  very  little  water  for  at  least  one  hour;  drain 
from  it  the  water,  and  dissolve  in  one  half  cupful  of  hot  sweet  milk;  while  cool- 
ing, beat  separately  two  eggs, adding  one  half  cupfid  of  sugar  1o  the  yolks;  when 
very  light,  add  the  stiff  whites  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  vanilla.  If  the  gelatin 
has  cooled,  mix  thoroughly  with  the  egg,  and  pour  at  once  into  the  wliipped 
cream.  Line  the  bowl  with  ladyfingers,  and  pour  in  the  charlotte.  This  is 
delightful,  and  sufficient  for  ten  people. 

Mr.s.  A.  E.  Kirtland,  Autbor,  Montgomery,  Alabama. 

TIMBAL  A  LA  MATHILD. 
Timhale  a  la  Mathilde. 
Prejiare  some  choux  paste,  say  one  pint  for  twelve  to  fourteen  persons,  put 
it  into  a  forcing-l)ag  witl\  a  large,  plain  pipe,  and  force  the  mixture  out  onto 
an  ungreased  baking-tin  in  rings  about  four  inches  in  diameter;  brush  these  all 


•over  the  top  with  whole  beaten-up  egg,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  about 
thirty-five  to  forty  minutes;  then  take  them  up,  and  arrange  them  one  on  the 
other  in  a  pile  on  a  paste  bottom,  fixing  them  together  with  a  little  icing  or 
boiled  sugar,  and  then  prepare  a  meringue  mixnire,  and  completely  cover  the 
timbal  with  this,  as  shown  iu  the  engraving,  witJi  a  bag  and  pipe,  forming  it  in 
little  ball  sliapes,  and  forcing  them  out  quite  close  together;  dust  it  over  with 
icing-sugar,  using  a  dredge  for  the  purpose,  and  tlien  place  it  in  a  mod«>rate  oven, 
and  let  the  meringue  get  perfectly  dry  Avithour  getting  discolored,  tlien  dish  up, 
and  fill  up  the  center  with  pastry  custard,  and  serve  chocolate  sa\ice  \\\  a  boat, 
Serve  hot  or  cold  for  dinner  sweet  pv  coU]  collation, 


251:  CUSTARDS    AND    DESSERTS. 

liOSAMOND  TIMBAL. 

rrepai-e  some  Florence  paste,  and  with  it  line  a  plain  timbal  or  charlotte 
mold;  put  it  aside  until  cold,  then  by  mean.s  of  a  palette-knife  loosen  it  from 
the  mold,  turn  it  out,  and  ornament  it,  as  shown  in  the  engraving-,  with  rose- 
colored  Vienna  icing  and  very  stiffly  whipped  cream,  using  a  large  rose-pipe, 
and  small  rose-pipe  with  a  leaf-shaped  pipe  for  the  top  edge;  fill  in  the  center 
of  the  timbal  with  alternate  layers  of  chocolate,  strawberry  and  maraschino 
ice-cream,  smooth  this  over,  and  on  the  top  of  the  shape  arrange  some  stiffly 
Avhlpped  cream  flavored  with  vanilla  essence  and  sweetened,  using  a  forcing- 


bag  and  rose-pipe  for  the  purpose;  place  here  and  there  some  chocolate  vari- 
eties, arrange  the  timbal  on  a  dish  on  a  paper,  and  serve  for  a  dinner  or  ball 
supper  sweet. 

CHARLOTTE  A  LA  CORA. 

Take  a  plain  charlotte-mold,  oil  it,  and  line  it  with  oiled  paper,  and  arrange 
around  it  some  vanilla  or  sponge  finger-biscuits,  trimming  them  as  may  be 
necessary  to  fix  them  nicely  and  evenly  in  the  mold,  then  fill  the  mold  up  with  a 
chocolate  bavaroise,  and  put  the  mold  aside  in  a  cool  place  or  on  ice  until  the 
bavaroise  is  set;  when  ready  to  serve,  dip  the  chailotte-mold  into  hot  water  for  a 
moment,  pass  a  cloth  over  the  bottom  to  absorb  any  moisture,  and  turn  the  char- 
lotte out  on  a  dish;  remove  the  paper,  and  pour  a  thick  apricot  sauce  over  and 
around  the  charlotte,  and  sprinkle  it  with  some  blanched  and  shredded  kernels 
of  the  pistachio-nut.  This  is  a  very  nice  swee.t,  and  is  suitable  for  either 
luncheon  or  dinner. 

Bavaroise  for  Charlotte  Cora.— Take  one  fourth  of  a  pound  of  chocolate, 
cut  up  small,  add  a  few  drops  of  essence  of  vanilla,  and  put  it  into  a  saucepan. 
Avith  two  ounces  of  sugar  and  rather  more  than  one  half  pint  of  milk;  let  it  boil 
for  about  ten  minutes,  then  dissolve  in  it  one  half  ounce  of  finest  leaf  gelatin, 
and  pour  into  it  three  raw  yolks  of  eggs  in  a  basin,  keeping  it  stirred;  then  pom- 
it  back  into  the  saucepan,  and  stir  it  over  the  fire  until  it  thickens,  but  do  not  let 
it  boil,  pass  it  through  the  sieve,  and  when  it  is  getting  cool,  add  to  it  one  half 
pint  of  whipped  cream  and  one  wine-glassful  of  maraschino  syrup,  and  pour  it 
into  the  mold  to  set. 

Gustave  Beraud,  Chef  of  Calumet  Club,  Chicago,  Formerly  Chef  of   Will  jam  Astor, 
New  York,  ' 


CUSTARDS    AND    DESSERTS. 


25[ 


MKLON  A  LA  DUCIIESSE. 

Take  oiio  half  pound  of  baked  almonds,  cliopptd  luus  six  ouuci's  of  rice 
cream,  two  salt-spoonfuls  of  apple-green,  six  whole  ej?gs,  four  ounces  of  sugar, 
two  salt-spoonfuls  of  essence  of  vanilla;  work  the  butter  until  like  a  cream, 
then  add  the  rice  cream,  sugar,  coloring  and  the  eggs  by  degrees,  and  finally 
the  almonds,  and  work  all  together  for  about  fifteen  ininutes.  Butter  and  flour 
the  two  halves  of  a  melon-mold,  and  half  till  thtnu  with  the  above  paste;  bake 
for  about  one  half  to  three  (luarters  of  an  hour  in  a  moderate  oven;  turn  the 
cakes  out  of  the  mold;  when  they  are  cool,  trim  them  off  evenly,  so  that  when 
put  together  they  will  form  a  ball;  scoop  out  the  centers,  and  fill  the  spaces  with 
apricot  or  strawberry  jam  and  whipped  cri'am,  sweetened,  and  flavored  with 
vanilla,  place  the  t\A'o  parts  together,  glaze  the  calce  with  noyau  or  maraschino 
glace  colored  with  a  little  apple-green;  dish  on  a  border  of  nougat  on  a  paper, 
garnish  Avitli  leaves,  and  serve. 

Gustave  Beraud,  Chef  of  Calumet  Club,  Chicago,  Formerly  Chef  of  William  Astor. 

LITTLE  NOUGAT  BASKETS  A  LA  DUCHESSE. 

Petites  Corbeilles  de  Nougat  ct  la  Duchesse. 

Line  some  little  oiled  oval  dariol-molds  with  nougat  paste  about  one  eighth  of 

au  inch  thick,  trim  them,  and  turn  out  the  notigat  cases  to  form  the  base  of  the 

baskets,  and  when  quite  cold,  fill  up  the  insides  with  whipped  cream,  using  a 

bag  and  pipe  for  the  purpose,  form  the  lids  and  handles  from  the  boiled  sugar 


or  angelica,  garnish  with  small  quarters  of  orange,  whole  ripe  strawberries  and 
cherries,  or  any  nice  fresh  ripe  fruit  that  is  dipped  into  clear  boiled  sugar;  if 
fresh  fruits  are  not  In  season,  dried  ones  may  be  used;  arrange  on  a  dish-paper 
or  napkin,  and  serve  for  a  dinjier  or  luncheon  sweet  or  for  aiij  cold  collation. 


PRINCE  OF  WALES  CHARLOTTE. 

Lay  thick  slices  of  any  kind  of  delicate  cake  in  a  deep  pudding-dish;  over  this 
pour  hot  boiled  custard  made  from  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  and  one  pint  of 
milk,  sweetened  and  flavored  to  taste.  Do  this  several  hours  before  the  dish  is 
to  be  served;  just  before  serving,  put  a  layer  of  sliced  peaches  or  oranges  over 
the  cake;  have  the  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  with  a  little  sugar, 
and  put  over  the  fruit;  put  into  the  oven  a  few  ininutes  to  brown. 
Mrs.  P.  P.  Mast,  SpringfieUl,  Ohio. 


256 


etJSTARDS   Al^D   DESSERTS. 


ALMOND  CHARLOTTE  A  LA  BEATEICE. 
Charlotte  d'Atnandes  a  la  Beatrice. 
Take  one  pound  of  nougat  paste,  then  turn  it  out  onto  an  oiled  slab  or  board, 
and  roll  out  the  mixture;  cut  up  a  portion  into  strips  four  or  five  inches  long 
and  one  and  one  half  inches  wide;  cut  two  plain  rounds  about  four  inches  in 
diameter,  and  put  these  aside  to  use,  one  for  the  top  and  the  other  for  the  bottom 
of  the  charlotte;  also  stamp  out  some  small  rounds  about  the  size -of  a  quarter 
to  garnish  the  top  and  bottom;  let  these  cool,  then  have  some  boiled  sugar. 
and  join  the  strips  together  in  a  well-oiled  mold;  leave  these  until  set,  then  fill 
up  the  inside  with  a  bavaroise  mixture,  as  below;  let  this  set.  then  turn  out,  and 
fasten  on  the  bottom  and  top  made  of  prepared  paste,  using  the  boiled  sugar  for 
the  purpose;  garnish  tastefully  with  the  I'ttle  rounds  of  the  paste,  and  ornament 


the  charlotte  with  royal  icing,  using  a  small  rose-pipe  and  forcing-bag  for  the 
purpose.    This  is  a  nice  sweet  to  serve  for  a  dinner  or  any  cold  collation. 

Bavaroise  for  Aljiokd  Ciiaei.otte  a  la  Beatrice. — Put  into  a  stew-pan> 
one  half  pint  of  milk,  with  two  ounces  of  castor-sugar  and  half  a  split  pod  of" 
vanilla,  stand  in  the  bain-marie  to  infuse  for  about  ten  minutes,  then  mix  witli 
it  one  half  ounce  of  gelatin,  and  stir  until  this  is  dissolved;  mix  three  yolks  of' 
eggs  in  a  basin,  and  stir  the  above  mixture  onto  them,  return  to  the  bain-marie,., 
and  stir  until  it  thickens,  then  tammy,  and  when  cool,  mix  in  a  wine-glassful  of" 
cherry  syrup,  one  half  wine-glassful  of  rum  or  brandy  and  one  half  pint  of 
stiffly  whipped  cream;  divide  this  mixture  into  three  parts,  color  one  with  a, 
little  sap-green,  one  with  carmine,  and  leave  the  other  part  white;  then  pour- 
these  mixtures  into  the  charlotte-case  in  alternate  layers  as  they  are  getting  set.. 


TIMBAL  A  LA  FLORENCE. 

Timbale  a  la  Florence. 
Put  more  than  one  half  pound  of  Valencia  almonds  into  a  stew-pan,  witn- 
sufficient  cold  water  to  cover  them;  bring  to  a  boil,  then  rinse  them  in  cold 
water;  strain  this  off,  and  rub  them  in  a  cloth  to  lake  off  the  skins;  chop  up 


CUSTARDS    AND    DESSERTS. 


257 


the  almonds  quite  fine,  and  put  them  into  a  stew-pan,  with  one  half  pound  of 
fine  sugar,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  brandy,  one  tablespoonful  of  strained  lemon- 
juiee,  and  sufticient  liciuid  carmine  to  make  it  a  nice  red  color;  stir  these  all 
together  over  the  Are  for  seven  or  eight  minutes,  when  they  will  be  almost  dry; 
then  talve  a  well-oiled  mold,  and  arrange  in  it  the  above  mixture  about  three 
fourths  of  an  inch  thick,  quickly  pressing  it  to  the  mold  with  a  slightly  oiled 
lemon;  trim  the  top  evenly,  then  put  aside  until  (luite  cold;  remove  from  the 
mold  (loosening  it  with  a  small-poinled  knife),  and  put  the  almond  case  on  a 
dish-paper  on  the  dish  in  which  it  will  be  sersed;  fill  up  the  inside  Avilh  a 
I)avaroise  mixture,  putting  this  into  the  case  when  it  is  beginning  to  set.  Take 
some  Vienna  icing  flavored  with  chocolate  in  the  proportion  of  one  ounce  of  the 
chocolate  to  one  half  pound  of  icing-sugar,  and  some  more  flavored  with  vanilla 
essence;  put  them  separately  into  forcing-bags  with  rose-pipes,  and  ornament 
the  case  with  these  mixtures,  as  in  the  engraving,  then  arrange  some  crys- 


tallized violets  here  and  there  on  the  icing  (these  give  a  very  pretty  effect  to  the 
dish);  when  ornamented,  put  the  timbal  into  a  cool  place  for  several  hours  to 
allow  the  icing  to  become  set;  then  serve  for  a  dinner  sweet  or  for  a  ball 
supper,  etc. 

VOL-AU-VENT  A  LA  PRINCE  GEORGE. 
Vol-  au-veni  d,  la  Prince  George. 
Prepare  some  puff  paste,  say  three  fourths  of  a  pound,  for  a  vol-au-vent  for 
eight  persons,  and  roll  it  out  about  one  half  inch  thick;  stamp  out  four  pieces 
with  a  vol-au-vent  cutter  which  has  been  dipped  into  boiling  water,  so  that  it 
outs  the  paste  evenly;  wet  a  baking-tin  all  over  Avith  cold  water,  place  the  pieces 
of  paste  on  it,  leaving  two  pieces  whole,  and  removing  the  centers  from  the 
other  two  pieces  by  means  of  a  small-sized  vol-au  vent  cutter;  put  the  center 
pieces  likewise  on  the  balving-tin;  brusli  the  paste  over  with  the  whole  beateu- 
up  egg,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  for  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes;  take  up,  place 
the  two  whole  pieces  one  on  the  other,  and  fasten  them  together  with  the  luting- 
paste,  and  then  on  top  of  them  place  the  two  pieces  from  which  the  centers 
were  removed,  and  fasten  them  together  with  the  paste;  whip  three  or  fom* 
whites  of  eggs  stiff,  with  a  pinch  of  salt,  put  it  into  a  forcing-bag  wltla  a  rose- 
pipe,  and  ornament  the  vol-au-vent  with  it,  as  shown  in  the  engraving,  in  lines 
up  the  sides  and  on  the  top,  and  on  the  whipped  egg  arrange  alternately  little 


258 


CUSTARDS   AND    DESSERTS. 


bunches  of  chopped  cooked  ham  or  tongue  and  bhmched  and  chopped  pistachios; 
put  the  vol-au-veut  in  a  very  moderate  oven  for  about  fifteen  minutes  to  dry 
the  white  of  egg  and  fixing-paste;  tiieu  dish  up  on  a  hot  dish  on  a  dish-paper  or 
naplvin.  fill  up  the  hollow  center  with  the  ragout,  as  below,  place  one  of  the 
center  pieces  of  paste  on  the  ragout,  and  serve  either  hot  or  cold. 


Eagout  for  Vol-au-vekt  a  la  Prince  George.— Take  three  fourths  of  a 
pound  altogether  of  coolved  chicken,  rabbit,  sweetbread,  cooked  ham  or  tongue, 
calves'  brains  left  from  any  previous  meal,  cut  all  into  pieces  about  the  size  of 
a  nickel,  and  mix  them  Avith  a  thick  veloute  sauce;  make  all  hot  in  the  bain- 
marie,  and  fill  in  the  vol-au-vent  case  Avith  it. 

LITTLE  NOUGAT  BASKETS  A  LA  DUREK. 

Petites  Corbeilles  de  Nougat  a  la  Diirer. 
Well  oil  some  fluted  basket-molds,  and  line  them  thinly  with  nougat  paste; 
Avhen  this  is  cool,  turn  the  nougats,   and  stick  the  two  parts  of  the  baskets 
together  with  a  little  boiled  sugar;  mask  the  bottom  part  of  the  basket  with  a 


little  royal  icing,  sprinkle  this  with  a  few  finely  shredded  pistachio-nuts,  and 
fill  up  the  inside  of  the  baskets  by  means  of  a  forcing-bag  and  pipe  with  colored 
garnishing-cream,  garnish  Avith  fruits,  such  as  straAA^berries,  cherries,  etc.,  that 
haA'^e  been  first  dipped  into  boiling  sugar  and  alloAved  to  get  cold;  dish  up  on  a 
dish-paper,  and  serve  for  a  sweet  for  dinner  or  any  cold  collation. 


CUSTARDS    AND    DESSERTS. 


259 


SI'UN  SUGAR. 

Put  ouo  half  pound  of  watov  autl  one  pound  of  best  cane  loaf-sugar  into  a  per- 
fectly clean  copper  sugar-boiler  or  thick  stew-pan,  cover  the  pan  over,  bring  to  a 
boil,  remove  any  scum  as  it  arises  from  time  to  time,  and  continue  boiling  until 
the  liquid  forms  a  thick-bubbled  appeai'ance  (commonly  called  the  crack);  then 
take  a  small  portion  on  a  clean  knife  or  spoon  (or  the  finger  may  be  used,  but  it 


must  be  Avell  wetted  with  cold  water  and  used  quickly),  and  plunge  it  inuue- 
diately  into  cold  water,  and  if  it  is  then  quite  biittle,  and  leaves  the  knife  or 
spoon  or  finger  quite  clear,  it  is  ready  for  spinning.  If  it  clings  or  is  at  all 
soft  or  pliable,  continue  the  boiling  until  as  above.  When  ready,  take  a  small 
portion  on  a  fork  or  spoon,  and  rapidly  tlu'ow  it  to  and  fro  over  a  sliglitl^'  oiled 
rolling-pjn;  continue  until  sufficient  threads  of  sugay  pre  obtajnec], 


260 


CUSTARDS    AND    DESSERTS. 


FLEUR  A  LA  FLORENCE. 

Fleur  ci  la  Florence. 

Take  a  square  fleur-mold,  oil  it  well,  and  line  it  about  one  fourth  of  an  inch 

thick  with  Florence  paste,  pressing  this  well  to  the  mold;  trim  ofE  the  edges 

neatly,  and  when  the  paste  is  cold  and  firm,  remove  the  pegs  from  the  mold, 

take  away  the  fleur-tin,  and  ornament  the  edges  of  the  paste  by  means  of  a 


forcing-bag  and  small  rose-pipe  with  royal  icing;  place  the  case  on  the  dish  in 
which  it  is  to  be  served,  arrange'around  the  inside,  as  in  the  engraving,  cornets 
prepared  as  in  recipe,  page  274,  but  color  the  cornet  paste  with  six  or  eight 
drops  of  liquid  carmine,  and  fill  up  the  center  with  a  maeedoine  of  fruits;  fill 
the  cornets  with  vanilla-flavored  whipped  cream  for  garnishing,  using  a  forcing- 
bag  and  rose-pipe  for  the  purpose,  and  arrange  some  of  the  same  cream  on  the 
top  of  the  maeedoine  of  fruits.    Serve  for  a  dinner  sweet  or  for  ball  supper. 

PASTRY  POTATOES. 
Pommes  de  Terre  Patisseries. 
Put   into    a    stew-pan    three   ounces    of   castor-sugar,    one   ounce   of    finely 
powderd  chocolate  rubbed  through  a  wire  sieve,  four  large  eggs,  and  whip  these 


together  over  boiling  water  until  the  mixture  is  quite  warm,  then  remove  the 
pan,  and  Avhip  the  contepts  off  the  water  yntil  the  mixttire  is  like  a  thick  batter 


rrSTARDS    AND    DEBSERTS.  2(31 

ami  quite  cold;  add  to  it  tliroe  ounces  of  line  flour  that  have  beeu  passed  tlirouj;li 
a  sieve  aud  warmed.  Have  a  bakiug-tiu  brushed  over  with  warm  butter,  and 
then  lined  with  paper,  brusli  the  paper  also  over  with  butter,  and  dust  it  over 
with  line  Hour  and  castor-sugar  mixed  in  e(iual  quantities;  pour  the  mixture  into 
This  pan  about  one  fourth  of  an  incli  thiclv,  and  ));ilve  it  in  a  moderate  oven  for 
al)out  one  half  liour;  tlien  turn  out,  and  wlien  cold,  rub  it  all  into  crumbs,  and 
mix  witli  it  two  tablespoonfuls  of  apricot,  strawberry  or  raspl)erry  jam,  which 
should  be  first  rubbed  througli  a  sieve;  add  about  tAvelve  drops  of  essence  of 
vanilla,  and  mix  it  into  a  paste  in  a  basin;  then  take  portions  of  the  mixture, 
about  one  dessert-spoonful,  flatten  it  out  with  the  hand,  using  a  little  icing- 
sugar  for  the  purpose,  and  inside  the  paste  place  one  or  two  uncrystallized 
cherries,  then  roll  up  into  the  form  of  a  very  small  potato.  Have  some  almond 
icing,  and  witli  it  completely  cover  the  first  preparation,  making  the  almond 
covering  perfectly  smooth,  and  working  it  witli  icing-sugar,  then  roll  the  jiotato 
into  chocolate  that  has  been  grated  and  rubbed  through  a  sieve;  roll  the  potato 
well  into  the  chocolate,  and  then  with  the  point  of  a  small  knife  make  little 
impressions  to  represent  the  eyes  of  the  potato;  leave  them  on  a  pastry-rack, 
and  when  the  almond  icing  is  set  and  feels  firm,  dish  up  the  potatoes,  as  in  the 
design,  with  a  few  little  green  leaves;  these  will  keep  well  for  a  week  or  two  if 
kept  in  a  dry  place,  and  are  nice  to  use  for  a  sweet  or  for  dessert  or  any  cold 
collation.    Quantities  given  will  be  enough  for  fourteen  to  sixteen  persons. 

8TR.VWBERRY  SOUFFLE  A  LA  CALUMET  CLUB.  - 

Take  three  fourths  of  a  pint  of  fresh  strawberry  pulp  that  has  Ijeen  rubbed 

through  a  sieve,  then  iuix  Avith  two  and  one  half  ounces  of  finely  sifted  fiour, 

two  ounces  of  butter,  one  gill  of  cream,  three  fourths  of  a  pound  of  sugar,  a 

few  drops  of  essence  of  vanilla,  aud  enough  liquid  carmine  to  make  it  a  pretty 

red  color,   and   four  yolks  of   raw   eggs;   stir  together  over  the  fire   tmtil   the 

mixture  Ijoils,  then  add  three  fourths  of  a  pound  of  sliced  ripe  strawberries, 

and  six  whites  of  eggs  that  are  whipped  stiff,  with  a  pinch  of  salt;  pour  the 

mixture  into  a  souHie-tiu  or  pie-dish,  place  a  band  of  buttered  paper  around  the 

tin  or  dish,  bake  in  the  oven  about  tweaty  minutes;  dust  it  with  icing-stigar; 

when  cooked,  remove  the  paper,  place  a  folded  napkin  over  the  dish,  and  serve 

it  in  a  hot  dish,  with  a  puree  of  iced  strawberries,  handed  in  a  sauce  boat  or 

glass  for  dinner  or  luncheon. 

Gustave  Beraud,  Chef  of  Calumet  Club,  Chicago,  Formerly  Chef  of   William  Astor, 
New  York. 

FRESH  PEACHES. 

Choose  large,  fresh,  ripe  and  juicy  peaches,  pare,  and  cut  them  into  two  or 
three  pieces,  sprinkle  them  with  granulated  sugar;  put  them  into  a  freezer,  and 
half  freeze  them,  which  will  take  an  hour  or  more.  Do  not  take  them  from  the 
freezer  until  ready  to  serve,  then  sprinkle  over  a  little  more  sugar,  and  serve  in 
a  glass  dish.    Canned  peacheg  may  be  used  in  the  same  way. 

BANANAS. 

Peel  and  slice  them,  heap  them  up  in  a  glass  dish,  and  serve  raw  with  fine 
sugar  and  cream.  Some  like  them  sliced  in  with  strawberries  or  oranges,  while 
others  eat  them  as  you  would  an  apple, 


;i()2 


CUSTAIiDS    AND   JIKSSKJITS. 


ICES,  CREAMS,  SHERBETS,  ETC. 

LJOAIOiN-ICK. 
One  ,i4;ill()ii  of   vvMlcr  .-iiid    Coui-  poiiiids  of  ,sii«;ii-,   well   boiled   and   skiiiiiiKMl; 
Avlii'ii  cold,  add  the  juice  ol'  a  dozen  lemons  and  the  sliced  i-ind  of  eiKlil,  ''ind  let 
infnse  one  lioui-;  strain  into  tiie  freezer  without  pressing,  and  stir  in  lightly  the 
well-l>eaten  whites  of  twelv(!  eggs. 
MiH.  J.  li.  Wood,  Bellevuo,  Ohio. 

FKDOltA  IU)MP,. 
Bornbc  fi  La  I'^edora, 
Prepare  a.  pni'ee  of  a|»ples,  as  below,  and  when  cool,  freeze  it,  and  line  a 
l»()Mit)-iiiol(l  about  one  foui'lh  of  an  inch  tliick  with  it;  tlien  till  up  tlie  center  of 
llie  mold  Willi  a  cherry  or  mai'aschino  mousse  mixture,  put  the  cover  on  the 
mold,  and  place  it  in  the  charged  ice-cav(>  for  about  three  and  one  half  hours, 
during  which  time  turn  it  around  occasionally;  when  sutlicicntly  frozen,  take  out 


(lie  mold,  dip  it  into  cold  water,  remove  the  cover,  pass  a  cl(>an  cloth  over  the 
bottom  to  absoi'l)  any  moisture,  and  turn  out  the  bomb  on  a  paper  or  napkin 
onto  a,  cold  dish.  (Jarnish  with  small  shapes  of  chocolate  or  colTee  ice-cream, 
and  serve  for  dinner  or  dessert  ice. 

AiM'LK  ruKEK  Foii  Fkdoua  BoMi?.— Take  two  pounds  of  good  cooking-ap))les, 
l)eel  and  slice  them,  and  put  them  into  a  stew-pan,  witli  one  (piart  of  water,  the 
peel  and  juice  of  two  lemons,  a  piece  of  crushed  cinnamon  about  one  inch  long, 
one  or  two  bay-leaves  and  six  onnc(>s  of  sugar.  (V)lor  a.  pale  salmon  with 
carm!n«>,  boil  all  together  into  a.  ])U1'(h>,  rub  this  through  the  tannny,  and  when 
cool,  paiMly  freeze  it,  then  mix  it  with  one  half  pint  of  stitlly  whipped  crealn; 
refreeze,  and  use. 

okan(;e-ice. 

Boil  one  and  one  half  cupfuls  of  sugar  in  a  (piart  of  water,  skimming  when 
necessary;  when  cold,  add  the  juice  of  one  half  dozen  oranges;  steep,  the  rinds 
iii  a  little  water,  and  strain  Into  tlie  rest;  add  the  rind  and  juice  of  a  lemon, 
and  strain  into  the  freezer,  and  freeze  lik(>  ice-cream, 
(Jhulys  RoiiiHliio,  Cleveland,  Ohio. 


CU.StAliDS    AND    DKSSEliT.S. 


208 


KASI'l'.KKJtV   WATIOK-ICIO. 

Mix  ouo  pound  of  su^iMr  niid  I1h>  Juice  of  two  lemons  witli  one  <iUMrt  of  nisp 
t)errJo«,  let  Kland  (jiie  liour,  sli'niu,  ;i(ld  ou<'  (lu.'iiM  of  lioilini;  water;  let  ('ool,  iuid 
freeze, 

STUAWBEIillY  VVATEK-K^E. 

lioll  otio  l)ound  of  sUjiUi'  and  one  pint  of  water  until  thick  nynip,  let  cool,  and 
add  the  juice  of  one  «iuart  of  strawberrieH  and  the  juice  of  cue  lemon,  turn  into 
llu'  freezer,  and  freeze. 

PRINCESS  MELON. 

Peel  one  and  one  half  pounds  of  f^ood  cooking-apples,  and  cut  them  inio 
slices;  put  these  into  a  stew-pan,  with  one  and  one  half  pints  of  water, the  linely 
chopped  peel  of  two  lemons  and  their  juice,  six  ounces  of  sugar,  a  strip  of  cin- 
namon and  two  bay-leaves;  l)rinji-  this  to  a  boil,  then  simmer  it  until  tender, 
and  color  with  a  few  drops  of  carmine;  rnl»  it  tin-ounii  a  tammy;  put  the 
mixtun^  into  the  charged  freezer,  and  freeze  ii   to  the  consistency  of  a  batter; 


a^ 


add  to  it  one  half  pint  of  stiliiy  wliipped  and  slightly  sweetened  cream,  refreeze 
it,  and  line  a  melon-mold  with  it  about  one  inch  tliick;  fill  up  the  inside  of  the 
mold  with  a  cream  prepared  as  below;  fasten  up  the  mold,  and  put  it  into  the 
charged  ice-cave  for  two  and  one  half  to  three  hours,  during  which  time  occa- 
sionally turn  it  from  side  to  side,  so  that  the  ice  becomes  evenlj  frozen.  When 
ready  to  serve,  dip  the  mold  into  cold  water,  and  turn  out  the  melon  onto  a 
border  of  the  ice  prepared  as  l)elow,  that  is  placed  in  the  center  of  a  dish  on  a 
dish-])aper;  garnish  with  small  assorted  sliajx's  of  the  cream-ice,  as  for  tlu; 
center,  that  have  been  frozen  in  small  molds  in  the  charged  ice-cave,  also  with 
little  sprigs  of  maiden-hair  fern.    Use  for  a  dinner  or  dessert  ice. 

CiacAM  FOK  Inside  Melon-mold.— Take  one  pint  of  single  cream,  sweeten  it 
with  three  ounces  of  castor-sugar  and  liavor  it  Avith  a  salt-spoonful  of  vanilla 
essence;  pour  it  into  the  charged  freezer,  and  freeze  it  dry;  then  add  to  it  three 
ounces  of  uncrystallized  cherries  that  have  been  cut  into  halves,  and  use. 

Ice  BonDEK  Eon  Princess  Melox.— Fill  a  border-mold  with  cold  water,  and 
set  it  in  the  cliarged  ice-cave  for  two  ;ind  one  half  to  three  houis;  when  frozen, 
dip  the  mold  into  cold  water,  jtass  a  clean  cloth  over  the  bottom  to  absorb  any 
moisture,  turn  out  tJie  border,  and  use. 


264 


OUSTAilbS    AKD   DESSERTS. 


PRINCESS  BASKET. 


Take  a  basket-iuold,  as  in  the  engraving,  and  put  it  into  a  cliarged  ice-cave 
for  about  one  half  hour  before  arranging  the  various  custards  in  it;  remove  the 
top  of  the  mold,  but  leave  it  in  the  mouth  of  the  cave  v^hile  putting  in  the  ice, 
otherwise  this  may  run  and  spoil  the  arrangement  of  the  colors;  fill  the  spaces 
in  the  top  of  the  mold  Avhich  j-epresent  cherries  or  strawberries  with  a  straw- 
berry-cream ice,  the  apples  and  pears  with  pistachio-ice,  and  for  the  grapes  use 
a  little  vanilla-ice  colored  lightly  with  damson  blue;  fill  the  pomegranate  also 
with  the  latter  ice,  which  has  been  made  a  so)newhat  deeper  red  than  the 
strawberry-cream  ice  with  cherry  red.  When  the  top  part  of  the  mold  is  com- 
plete, fill  up  the  bottom  part  with  layers  of  the  different  ice-creams,  arranging 
them  as  evenly  as  possible;  place  the  top  on  carefully,  and  let  the  mold  remain 
in  the  cave  for  about  two  and  one  half  hours,  during  which  time  give  it  an 
occasional  turn,  so  that  the  ice  will  be  thoroughly  frozen  through.  When  ready 
TO  serve,  dip  the  mold  into  cold  water,  pass  a  cloth  over  the  bottom  to  absorb 
any  moisture,  then  have  a  dish  with  a  serviette  or  paper  ready;  take  off  the 


bottom  part  of  the  mold,  place  the  ice  carefully  on  the  dish,  then  remove  the 
top  of  the  mold,  take  out  the  pegs,  and  open  the  side  pieces,  and  remove  them. 
A  few  tiny  fern-leaves  can,  if  liked,  be  used  to  garnish  the  ice.  Serve  for  a 
dinner  sweet  or  for  a  dessert  ice.  A  large-sized  mold  would  be  suflicient  for 
twelve  to  fourteen  people. 

LEMON  WATER-ICE. 

Put  one  pound  of  sugar  and  one  pint  of  water  on  to  boil;  chip  the  yellow  rind" 
from  three  lemons  and  one  orange,  add  to  the  syrup,  boil  five  minutes,  and  stand 
away  to  cool;  peel  the  lemons  and  orange,  cut  them  into  halves,  take  out  the 
seeds  and  squeeze  out  all  of  the  juice;  mix  with  the  syrup,  strain,  put  into  the 
freezer,  and  freeze. 

CHERRY  WATER-ICE. 

Stone  and  mash  one  half  gallon  of  cherries,  let  stand  for  one  hour,  and  strain; 
boil  a  pound  of  sugar  and  one  pint  of  water  until  it  threads,  then  set  aside  to 
cool;  when  cold,  mix  with  the  cherry-juice,  and  freeze.  Currant,  grape  and  goose- 
berry water-ices  mayjbe  made  the  same  way. 


CUSTARDS    AND    DESSERTS.  265 

I'EACH  CKEAM. 

I'aiv  and  stone  ono  (luart  of  very  soft  peaches;  add  1o  tlieni  one  pound  of 
suj;ar,  and  mash  them  thoroughly;  when  ready  to  freeze,  add  two  <iuarts  of 
rich  ereani,  which,  when  frozen,  Avill  till  a  dish  holding  four  quarts. 
Mrs.  J.  E.  Timberlake,  Stevenson's  Depot,  Virginia. 

VERSAILLES  riNEAPPLE  CKEAM. 

Put  a  pineapple-mold  into  a  charged  ice-cave  for  about  one  half  hour  before 
using;  then  open  it,  and  fill  the  top  part,  whicli  represents  the  leaves,  with 
pistachio  Ice-cream,  and  fill  the  body  of  the  mold  with  pineapple-ice,  to  which 
add  the  pulp  of  six  tangerines  and  the  very  finely  chopped  peels  of  the  same; 
till  the  bottom  of  the  mold  with  pistachio-ice;  close  up  the  mold,  and  stand  it  in 


the  charged  ice-cave  for  tlireo  and  one  half  to  four  hours,  during  which  time 
tui'n  it  occasionally,  so  that  the  ice  becomes  evenly  frozen;  wlien  required,  turn 
out  the  ice  in  the  usual  way  onto  a  tall  dessert-dish  on  a  dish-paper;  garnish  it 
with  little  assorted  shapes  of  the  pistacliio  and  pineapple  ice,  as  shown  in  the 
engraving,  and  little  sprigs  of  fern.    Serve  for  a  dinner  sweet  or  dessert  ice. 

TSAKINA  CKEAM. 

One  and  one  half  pints  of  thick  cream,  three  fourths  of  a  boxful  of  gelatin, 
one  fourtli  of  a  cupful  of  rose-water,  one  half  cupful  of  chopped  blanclied 
almonds,  one  and  one  half  cupfids  of  powdered  sugar,  one  fourth  of  a  cupful  of 
maraschino,  one  teaspoonful  of  vanillji,  one  fourth  of  a  cupful  of  chopped 
blanched  .pistachios,  green  coloring.  Soal<  the  gelatin  in  just  enough  cold  water 
to  cover;  when  soft,  add  the  rose-water  and  stand  over  boiling  water  until  dis- 
solved; wliip  the  cream  solid,  stir  in  A'ery  carefully  the  sugar;  strain  in  the 
melted  gelatin,  a  little  at  a  time,  stir  lightly  and  carefully  until  it  begins  to 
thicken,  then  add  gradually  the  vanilla  and  maraschino  and  sufficient  green 
coloring  to  give  a  faint  tinge;  add  the  chopped  nuts,  and  turn  into  a  welted 
mold;  cover  tightly,  and  pack  in  ice  and  salt  for  three  hours.  Serve  witli  iced 
champagne  sauce. 

Miss  Cornelia  Campbell  Bedford,  Superintendent  New  York  Cooking  School. 


2o6 


CUSTARDS   AND   DESSERTS. 


ICE-CREAM. 

Two  quarts  of  rich  milk,  two  toaspoonfuls  of  coru-starcli,  nine  eggs  beaten 
to  a  froth,  two  cupfuls  of  granuhited  sugar,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  vanilla  or  any 
other  flavor.  Heat  the  milk  boiling  hot;  beat  the  eggs,  sugar  and  corn-starch 
together,  and  stir  into  the  milk;  cook  a  fcAv  moments;  when  cool,  put  in  the 
flavoring,  and  freeze, 

Mrs.  John  B.  yanderson,  Groton,  Massachusetts. 

ROSSELINE  BOMB. 

Take  one  quart  of  single  cream,  and  mix  with  it  six  ounces  of  sugar,  eight 
tablespoonfuls  of  rose-water,  one  large  tablespoonful  of  vanilla  essence,  one 
tablespoonful  of  cherry  liquor;  mix  well,  and  freeze  it  in  the  charged  freezer 
to  the  consistency  of  a  thick  batter,  then  add  to  it  one  half  pound  of  pre- 
served uncrystalllzed  cherries  cut  up  into  very  small  pieces,  and  two  ounces 


of  blanched,  peeled  sweet  almonds  cut  up  into  little  dice  shapes,  and  baked  until 
brown;  put  the  mixture  into  a  bomb-mold,  and  leave  it  in  the  charged  ice-cave 
for  three  and  one  half  hours,  during  which  time  occasionally  turn  the  mold,  so 
that  the  contents  may  be  evenly  frozen;  then  turn  out  the  bomb  onto  a  dish  on 
a  paper;  garnish  with  crystallized  cherries  that  are  masked  with  boiled  sugar, 
blanched  pistachio-nuts  and  spun  sugar,  and  serve  at  once.  Have  some  wafers 
arranged  on  a  dish  on  a  fancy  dish-paper,  and  hand  them  with  the  ice. 


CARAMEL  ICE-CREAM. 

Make  a  custard  of  two  quarts  of  sweet  millv,  one  cupfid  of  sugar,  six  well- 
beaten  eggs;  dissolve  one  fourth  of  a  box  of  gelatin  in  one  cupful  of  milk,  put 
in  hot  custard;  put  one  pound  of  sugar  into  the  frying-pan,  let  melt  and  brown 
a  little,  put  tAvo  or  three  tablespoonfuls  of  water  into  it;  after  it  browns,  set  off 
to  cool  a  little,  then  add  to  the  custai'd;  stir  until  dissolved;  AA^hen  ready  to 
freeze,  add  one  pint  of  cream,  and  vanilla  to  flavor. 

Mrs.  A.  E.  Kirtland,  Author  of  "Mrs.  Kirtland's  Cook  Book,"  Montgomery,  Alabama. 


CCrsTAKDtj    AKl)    OKSSEIiTb. 


2(M 


(aN(;Kll   ICE-CKKAM. 

Soiilcl  three  pints  of  cream,  add  two  cupfuls  of  sugar  and  three  tablespoon- 

fiils   of    Sicily    Madeira   Avine,   and   freeze;    when   partly    frozen,    stir   in   three 

fourths  of  a  cupful  of  finely  chopped  crystallized  ginger,  and  finish  freezing. 

To  make  a  smooth  ice-cream,  the  ice  should  be  chopped  as  fine  as  the  rock-salt. 

Mrs.  AltUea  Somes,  Teacher  of  Cookery,  Manual  Training  School,  Boston. 

EMPRESS  FREDERICK  TIMBAL. 

Cook  some  Oenoise  i)aste,  and  cut  it  into  rings  about  four  inches  in  diameter, 
arrange  about  six  of  these  one  on  top  of  tlie  other,  spreading  between  the  layers 
a  very  little  apricot  jam  that  has  been  rubbed  through  a  sieve;  mask  over  the 
outside  with  white  icing,  put  the  timbal  aside  until  it  is  cold  and  the  icing  is 
firm  and  dry,  tlien  arrange  all  over  it  some  button  meringues,  sticking  tliem  to 
the  cake  with  a  little  icing;  garnish  the  top  edge  with  tiny  roses  of  royal  icing. 


and  stick  in  here  and  there  strips  of  angelica  or  blanched  and  peeled  pistachio- 
nuts;  arrange  the  timbpl  on  a  paper  on  a  dish,  then  fill  it  up  with  alternate 
layers  of  burnt  almond,  strawberry  and  cinnamon  cream  ices;  smooth  over  the 
top,  and  garnish  by  means  of  a  forcing-bag  and  rose-pipe  with  garnishing-cream 
mottled  with  a  few  drops  of  carmine.  It  may  be  garnished  with  spun  sugar,  if 
liked,  as  in  the  engraving.  Serve  for  a  dinner  sweet  or  for  luncheon,  ball 
supper,  etc. 

ICE-CREAM,  WITHOUT  EGCS. 

Take  equal  parts  of  cream  and  milk,  and  sweeten  it  very  sweet;  flavor  Avith 
any  extract  desired:  pour  it  into  a  freezer,  Avith  plenty  of  rock-salt  and   ice 
around  it,  and  let  it  stand  fifteen  minutes  before  stirring.     After  stirring  it  for 
fifteen  minutes,  it  will  be  a  nice  cream. 
E.  A.  Loring,  Cordaville,  Massachusetts. 


PISTACHIO  ICE-CREAM. 

Scald  one  pint  of  cream  and  one  cupful  of  milk,  add  three  fourths  of  a  cu])- 
ful  of  sugar;  cool,  and  add  a  little  spinach  coloring,  and  flavor  Avith  almonds; 
fi'eez(\ 

Mrs.  Althea  Somes,  Teaclier  of  Cookery,  Manual  Training  School,  Boston. 


CtTSTARDS   AND  DESSERTS. 


SORBET. 


Boil  togetber  twenty  minutes  one  pint  of  sugar,  one  quart  of  water,  one  pint 
of  chopped  pineapple;  add  one  half  cupful  of  lemon-Juice  and  one  cupful  of 
orange-juice;  cool,  strain,  and  freeze  to  a  mush. 

Miss  Ida  M.  Foster,  City  Hospital,  Wilkesbarre,  Pennsylvania. 

PINEAPPLE  SHERBET. 

Take  one  large  pineapple,  grate,  and  mix  with  three  quarts  of  water,  one 
ounce  of  dissolved  gelatin,  four  lemons  and  the  whites  of  six  eggs;  sweeten,  and 
freeze. 

CAMBRIDGE  BOMB. 

Put  into  a  stew-pan  one  and  one  half  pints  of  new  milk,  the  peel  of  two 
lemons,  two  bay -leaves,  a  split  pod  of  vanilla  and  four  ounces  of  sugar;  bring  to 
a  boil,  then  stir  it  onto  twelve  raw  yolks  of  eggs,  a  salt-spoonful  of  apricot 
yellow,  the  same  quantity  of  carmine  and  one  fourth  of  an  ounce  of  ground 
ginger;  return  the  mixture  to  the  stew-pan,  and  stir  it  over  the  fire  until  it 


thickens,  then  rub  it  through  the  tammy,  put  it  aside  until  cold,  add  one  fourth 
of  a  pound  of  very  finely  cut  up  preserved  ginger,  two  ounces  of  glace  cherries, 
two  ounces  of  finely  chopped  blanched  and  baked  almonds,  one  wine-glassful 
of  noyau  and  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  essence.  Freeze  it  in  the  charged 
freezer  to  a  semi-solid  consistency,  mix  with  it  two  and  one  half  gills  of  stifily 
whipped  cream  that  is  sweetened  with  one  ounce  of  sugar;  refreeze,  and  put  it 
into  a  tall  bomb-mold;  place  it  in  the  charged  ice-cave  for  about  three  and  one 
half  to  four  hours;  then  turn  out  the  bomb  in  the  usual  way  onto  a  clean,  dry 
cloth,  and  dish  up  on  paper  on  a  dish,  garnish  around  with  little  assorted  shapes 
of  the  same  ice,  and  serve  for  a  dinner  sweet. 

LEMON  SHERBET. 

Squeeze  the  juice  from  one  dozen  lemons;  then  slice  them,  and  pour  one 
gallon  of  boiling  water  over  them;  mix  three  pounds  of  sugar  with  the  lemon- 
juice  and  one  half  teacupful  of  arrowroot,  and  stir  all  together;  when  half 
frozen,  stir  in  the  whites  of  ten  eggs,  beaten  stilf;  freeze  again,  and  set  to 
mellow. 


CUSTARt)S   AND   DESSERTS.  269 

ORANGE  SHERBET. 

One  gallon  of  water,  one  dozen  oranges,  juloe  of  six  lemons,  whites  of  six 
eggs;  mix,  and  freeze. 

SULTANA   ROLLS. 

Line  one-lialf-pound  balving-powder  cans  witli  pistachio  ice-cream,  sprinkle 
With  snltana  raisins  soalced  in  brandy;  fill  the  centers  with  thlclv,  whipped 
cream,  sweetened,  and  flavored  with  vanilla;  freeze,  and  serve  with  claret 
sauce. 

Mrs.  Althea  Somes,  Teacher  of  Cookery,  Manual  Training  Scliool,  Boston. 

ICED  STRAWBERRY  PUREE. 

Pound  together  one  pound  of  strawberries,  one  half  pound  of  sugar,  the  juice 

of  one  lemon  and  a  few  drops  of  liquid  carmine;  rub  throng)}  a  sieve,  and  stand 

on  ice  until  wanted  for  use. 

Gustave  Beraud,  Chef  of  Calumet  Club,  Chicago,  Formerly  Chef  of  William  Astor, 
New  York. 

ICE-WATER  CUPS. 

Fill  the  ice-water  cups  three  parts  full  with  plain  or  colored  cold  water,  fix 
on  the  covers,  and  put  the  molds  on  the  bottom  of  the  charged  ice-cave  for  two 
and  one  half  to  three  hours;  then  take  up,  dip  each  shape  separately  into  cold 
water,  and  turn  out  the  cups  onto  a  clean,  dry  cloth,  and  use  for  a  sorbet;  or 
they  can  also  be  filled  with  custard  or  fruit-ices  if  lilced. 


PASTES,  ICINGS,  ETC. 

FIG  PASTE  FOR  CAKE. 

1  poimd  of  figs,  %  of  a  large  cupful  of  sugar, 

1/2  cupful  of  water. 

Chop  the  figs,  and  then  cook  with  the  sugar  and  water  until  tliick  as  paste. 
H.  A.  E.,  Rockford,  Illinois. 

GELATIN  ICING  FOR  CAKES. 

One  scant  tablespoonful  of  gelatin  dissolved  in  two  tablespoonfuls  of  hot 
water;  mix  with  powdered  sugar  until  quite  stiff,  spread  on  the  cake,  and 
smooth  with  a  knife  dipped  into  hot  water. 

CHOCOLATE  ICING. 

y2  cake  of  finely  grated  chocolate,  2-3  of  a  cupful  of  sugar, 

V2  cupful  of  milli  or  cream. 
Boiled  and  stirred  to  a  paste. 

BOILED  ICING. 

One  and  one  half  cupfuls  of  sugar;  put  to  this  two  tablespoonfuls  of  water; 
let  it  boil  on  the  back  of  the  stove  until  it  is  waxy  or  stringy;  tlien  add  the 
whites  of  two  eggs. 


^70  CUSTARt>S   AND   DESSERTS. 

FILLING. 

Two  C'lipfiiLs  of  su.«ar,  one  half  t-upful  of  water  boiled  until  it  will  make  a; 
stiff  thread,  pour  on  the  stiff  whites  of  two  eggs,  beat  until  stiff,  flavor,  and 
spread  over  the  cake;  sprinkle  with  freshly  grated  cocoanut  each  layer  and 
over  the  top. 

Mrs.  A.  E.  Kirtlatid,  Author  of  "Mrs.  Kirtland's  Cook  Book,"  Montgomery,  Alabama.. 

RAISIN  FILLING  FOR  LAYER  CAKES. 

One  teacLipful  of  coffee-sugar  and  three  tablespoonfuls  of  water  boiled  five- 
minutes;  beat  the  Avhites  of  two  eggs  to  a  stitf  froth,  and  pour  the  boiling  syrupy 
OA'er  it;  seed  and  chop  one  half  pound  of  raisins,  and  beat  all  together  until  cold.. 
Stella. 

FROSTING. 

Break  the  whites  of  two  eggs  into  a  boAvl  without  beating;  add  one  table- 
spoonful  of  corn-starch  and  pulverized  sugar  enough  to  make  it  quite  stiff.  It 
will  dry  sufficiently  in  a  few  minutes. 

CHOCOLATE  FROSTING. 

Melt  one  square  or  one  ounce  of  plain  chocolate  in  a  'bowl  over  the  tea-kettle, 
then  add  two  and  one  half  tablespoonfuls  of  cold  water,  one  cupful  of  confec- 
tioners' sugar  and  one  fourth  of  a  teaspoouful  of  cinnamon;  spread  on  the  cake 
while  Avarm.    Enough  for  one  small  sheet. 

Mrs,   G.   L.  Green,  Formerly   Principal   Boston  Y.  M.  C.  A.  School  of  Cookery,  now 
Teacher  of  Cooking  in  the  High  School,  Concord,  New  Hampshire. 

FROSTING  FOR  A  SMALL  SHEET  OF  CAKE. 

Two  tablespoonfuls  of  cold  water,  with  confectioners'  sugar  (not  powdered) 

enough  to  make  it  spread  nicely  without  running,  and  a  little  of  any  kind  of 

flavoring  added,  makes  a.  much  nicer,  softer  frosting  than  wiien  the  whites  of 

eggs  are  used.    Do  not  spread  until  the  cake  is  entirely  cold.    If  you  wish  a  very 

handsome  as  well  as  toothsome  flnish  for  the  top  of  the  cake,  sprinkle  the  icing 

thickly,  while  moist,  with  chopped  English  walnuts,  citron  and  candied  cherries, 

mixed. 

Mrs.  G.   L.   Green,  Formerly   Principal   Boston  Y.  M.  C.  A.  School  of   Cookery,  now 
Teacher  of  Cooking  in  the  High  School,  Concord,  New  Hampshire. 

TUTTI-FRUTTI  FROSTING. 

Boil  one  half  teacupful  of  Avater  with  three  cupfuls  of  white  sugar  until  it  is 
very  thick  and  waxy;  beat  the  whites  of  two  eggs  to  a  stiff  frotli,  and  pour  the 
syrup  over  them,  beating  until  it  is  cool;  then  add  one  half  pound  of  finely 
chopped  almonds,  one  small  lialf  teacupful  of  large  raisins  and  a  little  citron, 
sliced  thin.     This  is  very  nice  for  sponge-cake. 

SHORT  PASTE  FOR  FRUIT  TARTS,  ETC. 

One  half  pound  of  flour,  one  ounce  of  creme  de  riz,  four  ounces  of  butter, 
one  ounce  of  castor-sugar,  one  yolk  of  egg;  rub  the  flour  and  butter  together  until 
smooth,  then  add  the  sugar  and  the  egg  and  one  fourth  of  an  ounce  of  baking- 
powder;  mix  with  cold  water  into  a  very  stiff  paste,  roll  oni,  and  use. 


CUSTARDS    AND    DESSERTS.  271 

VVVF   PASTE. 

For  QUO  pound  of  Hour  take  one  pound  of  l)utl<'r,  or  i):ut  butter  and  part 
lard;  mix  a  pinch  of  salt  with  tlie  tlour,  and  iiialco  it  into  a  stiff  paste  with  cold 
water;  the  i)aste  should  be  as  near  as  ])ossible  to  tlie  consistency  of  the  fat;  roll 
tlie  paste  out  to  about  the  size  of  a  larsj;e  meat-plate;  press  any  water  from  the 
fat,  and  then  worlc  it  with  the  Iiand  into  a,  ball,  usinj;"  a  very  little  Hour;  put 
tlie  fat  into  the  paste,  and  press  it  out  to  about  half  the  size  of  the  paste;  then 
Avrap  the  fat  up  in  the  paste,  and  put  it  aAyay  in  a  cool  place  for  about  one 
hour,  then  roll  it  out  straight  four  times;  repeat  the  rolling-  twice;  let  the  paste 
lie  for  the  same  time  between  each  turn,  then  use. 

SHORT  TASTE  FOR  CROUSTADES. 

Four  ounces  of  butter  rubbed  into  one  half  pound  of  fine  flour,  mixed  with 
cue  raw  yolk  of  egg  and  a  pinch  of  salt,  then  made  into  a  stiflf  paste  with  cold 
water;  roll  out,  and  use. 

CllOIiX  PASTE. 

Put  one  half  pint  of  water  into  a  stew-pan,  with  four  ounces  of  butter  and 
two  ounces  of  castor-sugar,  bring  to  a  boil,  then  mix  into  it  five  ounces  of  fiuti 
flour  that  has  been  rubbed  through  a  sieve,  stir  well  together,  and  stand  on  the 
stove  to  cook  for  ten  minutes,  occasionally  stirring  it;  when  cooked,  remove 
from  the  stove,  and  let  the  mixture  cool,  then  mix  in  l)y  degrees  three  whole 
eggs  and  six  or  eight  drops  of  essence  of  vanilla,  and  use. 

ANCHOVY  BISCUIT  PASTE. 

Rub  two  ounces  of  flour  Avith  three  fourths  of  an  ounce  of  butter  until  (piite 
smooth,  then  add  to  it  a  salt-si)oonful  of  essence  of  anchovy,  about  eight  drops 
of  carmine,  a  tiny  dust  of  red  pepper,  a  pinch  of  baking-powder  and  half  an  egg; 
mix  all  Avith  one  teaspoouful  of  cold  water,  then  roll  out  thin,  and  use. 

LUTINCx-PASTE. 

Mix  half  a  wliite  of  an  o'j^g  into  a  sticky  paste  with  a  little  Hour,  color  witli 
a  few  drops  of  saffron,  and  use. 

NOITIAT  PASTE. 

Take  one  half  pound  of  blanc!ied  and  finely  choi)ped  or  shredded  dried 
almonds,  one  half  pound  of  castor-sugar  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sti-ained 
lemon-juice;  put  the  sugar  and  lemon-juice  into  a  stew-pan  together,  and  boil 
them  until  a  nice  golden  color,  stirring  all  tlie  time,  then  mix  in  the  almonds. 
stir  on  the  fire  until  the  mixture  reboils,  tlien  use  at  once. 

FLORENCE  PASTE. 

Take  one  half  pound  of  blanched  and  finely  chopped  almonds,  put  them  into 
a  steAV-pan,  with  one  half  pound  of  sugar,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  brandy,  or  any 
liipior,  the  juice  of  one  large  lemon  and  one  tablesiioonful  of  liquid  carmine; 
stir  this  continually  all  together  over  the  fire  for  seven  or  eight  minutes,  then 
use  at  once  Avhile  hot. 


272  CUSTARDS    AND    DESSERTS. 

/ 
GENOISE  PASTE. 

One  half  pouud  of  good  butter  and  the  finely  chopped  peel  of  one  lemon,  and 

Avork  them  in  a  basin  with  a  Avooden  spoon  until  white  and  lilie  cream;  then  add. 

one  half  pound  of  sugar,  and  work  them  together  for  about  ten  minutes,  and 

then  mix  by  degrees  five  small  whole  raw  eggs  and  one  half  pound  of  sifted 

fine  flour,  adding  one  egg  and  about  one  tablespoonful  of  flour  at  a  time,  and 

lastly  one  eighth  of  an  ounce  of  baking-powder;  put  it  into  a  buttered  saute-pan, 

and  bake  for  about  thirty  minutes,  then  turn  out,  and  when  cool,  stamp  out, 

and  use. 

ALMOND  ICING. 

To  two  and  one  half  pounds  of  very  finely  chopped  almonds  add  three  and 
three  fourths  pounds  of  finest  icing-sugar,  mix  in  seven  or  eight  raw  whites  of 
eggs,  one  wine-glassful  of  white  rum  and  one  tea  spoonful  of  essence  of  vanilla; 
Avork  into  a  stiff,  dry  paste,  and  use. 

ROYAL  ICING. 

To  tAvo  and  one  half  pounds  of  icing-sugar  put  seven  or  eight  whites  of  fresh 
eggs  and  one  half  tablespoonful  of  strained  lemon-juice,  A\'ork  for  fifteen  to 
tAventy  minutes  with  a  clean  wooden  spoon  into  a  smooth,  thick  paste,  and  put 
onto  the  cake  Avith  a  clean  palette-knife,  occasionally  dipping  this  into  cold 
Avater.    Cakes  should  be  covered  one  day,  and  ornamented  the  next. 

VIENNA  ICING. 

Ten  ounces  of  icing-sugar  and  one  fourth  of  a  pound  of  butter  worked  with  a 
AA^ooden  spoon  until  smooth;  mix  with  one  small  Avine-glassful  of  mixed  white 
rum  and  maraschino,  Avork  it  until  like  cream,  then  use.  This  may  be  flavored 
and  colored  according  to  taste. 

VIENNA  CHOCOLATE  ICING. 

To  three  fourths  of  a  pound  of  icing-sugar  add  one  half  pound  of  fresh  butter, 
one  fourth  of  a  pound  of  finely  powdered  chocolate,  a  little  coffee  broAvn  and 
about  one  half  wine-glassful  of  brandy  or  liquor;  mix  all  with  a  wooden  spoon 
for  about  fifteen  minutes,  aa  hen  it  Avill  present  a  creamy  appearance,  and  is 
ready  for  use. 

GLACE. 

Take  three  fourths  of  a  pound  of  icing-sugar,  one  and  one  half  tablespoonfuls 
of  noyau  or  noyau  syrup,  one  and  one  half  tablespoonfuls  of  orange-flower 
Avater;  mix  just  AA'arm,  and  use,  coloring  to  any  desired  shade. 

COFFEE  GLACE. 
Mix  three  fourths  of  a  pound  of  icing-sugar  Avith  one  and  one  half  table- 
spoonfuls of  strong  coffee  or  essence  of  coffee  and  one  and  one  half  tablespoon- 
fuls of  hot  AA^ater;  just  mix,  and  AA^arm,  then  use  at  once. 

MARASCHINO  GLACE. 
Put  into  a  stew-pan  three  fourths  of  a  pound  of  icing-sugar,  then  mix  in  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  maraschino,   stir   over  the  fire   until  just  warm,   then   use. 
Noyau  or  any  other  liquor  can  be  used  similarly. 


CUSTARDS    AND    DESSERTS.  273 

(JAKNISIllNC-CltEAM. 

Whip  one  half  pint  of  double  fivaiii  until  stiff,  then  add  to  It  one  ounce  of 
ca.stor-suj>ai"  and  a  little  vanilla  essence,  and  use.  It  can  be  colored  or  left  plain, 
or  mottled  l)y  adding  a  few  drops  of  carmine  drops  or  sap-grecu,  and  then  draw- 
ing a  forlv  through  it. 

SNOW  CKEAM. 

Put  one  pint  of  cold  water  into  a  basin  or  stew-pan,  with  one  fourth  of  a  pint 
of  double  cream,  the  strained  juice  of  one  lemon  and  two  ounces  of  castor-sugar; 
whip  tliis  mixture  quiclcly  witli  a  whisk  until  the  top  is  frothy  like  snow,  remove 
the  froth  with  a  slice,  and  place  it  on  a  hair-sieve  to  drain;  repeat  the  whipping- 
while  any  froth  is  obtainable;  then  when  ready  to  serve,  take  it  gently  from  the 
sieve  with  a  slice  or  spoon,  and  use. 

MAKASCHINO   MOUSSE. 

Put  into  a  whipping-pan  ten  raw  yolks  of  eggs,  three  whites  of  eggs,  one 
wine-glassful  of  sherry  liquor,  two  ounces  of  castor-sugar  and  one  dessert-spoon- 
ful of  vanilla  essence;  whip  these  over  boiling  Avater  until  tJie  mixture  is  warm, 
then  reu)ove  the  pan  from  the  fire,  and  continue  tlie  Avhipping  until  the  mixture 
is  cold  and  thick;  add  to  it  one  half  pint  of  slightly  sweetened,  stittly  wliipped 
cream,  and  put  it  into  a  mousse-mold  that  has  been  in  tlie  charged  ice-cave  for 
about  a  quarter  of  an  hour;  put  the  cover  on  the  mold,  place  it  on  the  bottom 
of  the  cave,  and  freeze  the  mousse  for  about  four  and  one  h;ilf  hours,  giving  the 
mold  an  occasional  turn  around  so  that  the  mousse  becomes  evenly  frozen; 
when  frozen,  dip  the  mold  into  cold  water,  remove  the  cover,  pass  a  clean  cloth 
over  the  bottom  to  absorb  any  moisture,  and  turn  out  onto  a  cold  dish  on  a 
paper.    Serve  for  a  dinner  sweet  or  for  dessert. 

CAKE-BOTTOM. 

Kill*  two  ounces  of  butter  into  half  a  i»ound  of  flour  until  smooth,  then  add 
two  ounces  of  sugar  and  one  02;<f^,  and  mix  with  cold  Avater  into  a  very  stiff 
paste;  roll  out,  cut  into  square  shape,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  about  half 
an  hour,  then  put  to  press,  trim,  and  use.  When  these  are  used  for  savory  tur- 
bans the  sugar  should  be  left  out. 

BAVAKOISE  MIXTURE. 

Take  a  good  one  half  pound  of  new  milk,  and  put  into  it  one  half  stick  of 
vanilla-pod  and  U\o  ounces  of  sugar,  let  it  infuse  for  about  ten  miiuites,  stand- 
ing the  pan  in  the  bain-marie,  remove  tke  pod,  and  dissolve  in  the  milk  one  half 
omice  of  gelat'in;  put  three  raw  yolks  of  eggs  into  a  basin,  and  stir  tlie  milk  onto 
them;  return  the  mixture  to  the  stew-pan,  and  stir  on  the  stove  imtil  the  eon- 
tents  thicken,  but  do  not  allow  it  to  boil;  strain  it  through  the  tammy,  and  let  it 
cool,  then  mix  into  it  two  large  tablespoonfuls  of  orange-flower  water,  one  wine- 
glassful  of  rum,  the  .same  of  maraschino  or  noyau  syrup  and  one  half  pint  of 
stiffly  AA'hipped  cream,  stir  well  together,  and  pour  into  an  ornamented  mold; 
when  set,  turn  it  out  on  a  dish  on  a  paper  or  napkin,  ami  serve  for  a  SM'eet  for 
dinner,  luncheon  or  for  any  cold  collation. 


274  CUSTARDS    AND    DESSERTS.  / 

ALMOND  MERINGUE  MIXTURE. 

Put  iuto  a  whipping-tin  two  whites  of  eggs,  with  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  wliip 
them  until  quite  stiff,  then  add  one  fourth  of  a  pound  of  eastor-sugar  and  one 
ounce  of  blanched  and  finely  shredded  almonds,  put  into  a  forcing-bag  with  a 
large,  plain  pipe,  force  it  onto  cold  waxed  tins,  arranging  the  shape  according  to 
taste,  dust  over  by  means  of  a  dredger  with  a  little  icing-sugar,  put  into  a  mod- 
erate oven,  and  bake  until  a  nice  brown  color,  then  talie  up;  dress  when  cold 
with  whipped  and  sweetened  and  flavored  cream,  place  on  a  dish  on  a  paper, 
and  serve  for  a  dinner  or  luncheon  sweet  or  plainly  for  dessert.  These  can  also 
be  used  for  filling  cakes,  etc. 

PANARD. 

One  half  pint  of  water  put  to  boil  with  one  ounce  of  butter  and  a  pinch  of 
salt;  then,  when  boiling,  mix  in  four  large  tablespoonfuls  of  fine  flour,  and  cook 
on  the  stove  for  about  five  minutes,  giving  the  panard  an  occasional  stir  while  it 
is  cooking;  when  cool,  use. 

CUSTARD  FOR  PROFITEROLES,  PASTRY,  ETC. 

Put  into  a  stew-pan  one  ounce  of  fine  flour,  one  raw  yolk  of  egg,  two  ounces 
of  butter,  one  ounce  of  castor-sugar  and  one  and  one  half  gills  of  cold  milk;  stir 
these  over  the  fire  until  the  mixture  boils,  then  flavor  with  a  few  drops  of 
vanilla,  mix  into  it  one  tablespoonful  of  whipped  cream,  and  use. 

CORNETS,  WITH  CREAM. 

Mix  into  paste  four  ounces  of  finely  chopped  almonds,  two  ounces  of  fine  flour, 
two  ounces  of  sugar,  one  large  raw  egg,  a  pinch  of  salt  and  a  tablespoonful  of 
orange-flower  water.  Put  one  or  two  baking-tins  into  the  oven,  and  when  they 
are  quite  hot,  rub  them  over  with  Avhite  Avax,  let  the  tins  get  cool,  then  spread 
the  paste  smoothly  and  thinly  over  the  tins  (say  one  tenth  of  an  inch  thick), 
and  bake  in  the  oven  for  three  or  foiu-  minutes;  take  out  the  tins,  and  quickly 
stamp  out  the  paste  with  a  plain  round  cutter  about  two  and  one  half  to  three 
inches  in  diameter,  and  immediately  wrap  these  rounds  of  paste  on  the  outside 
of  the  cornet-tins,  which  liave  been  slightly  oiled  inside  and  out,  pressing  the 
edges  well  together,  so  that  the  paste  takes  the  shape  of  the  cornet;  then  remove 
the  paste,  and  slip  it  inside  the  tin,  and  put  another  one  of  the  tins  inside  the 
paste,  so  that  it  is  kept  in  shape  between  the  two  tins;  place  them  in  a  moderate 
oven,  and  let  them  remain  until  quite  crisp  and  dry;  take  them  out,  and  remove 
the  tins.  These  can  be  liept  any  length  of  time  in  a  tin  box  in  a  dry  place.  Orna- 
ment the  edges  with  royal  icing  by  means  of  a  bag  and  pipe,  and  then  dip  the 
icing  into  difl:"erent  colored  sugars;  fill  them  with  whipped  cream, sweetened, and 
flavored  with  vanilla,  using  a  forcing-bag  and  pipe  for  the  purpose,  and  arrange 
them  in  a  pile  on  a  dish-paper  or  napkin.  These  cornets  can  also  be  filled  witli 
any  cream  or  water-ice  or  set  custard  or  fruits,  and  served  for  dinner,  luncheon 
or  supper  dish. 


Chapter  XV. 
CAKE-MAKING. 

In  cake-making,  as  indeed  in  all  other  bi-ancbes  of  cookery,  the  best  results 
are  obtained  onlj'  by  using  the  best  materials.  It  is  a  great  mistake  to  think., 
as  many  do,  that  butter  not  good  enough  for  the  table  is  yet  just  as  good  for 
cake  as  the  best,  or  that  a  coarse  quality  of  grauulated  sugar  will  make  the 
same  ligiit,  fine-grained  calve  that  a  finer  grade  will.  In  all  the  rules  which 
follow  use  only  the  best  butter,  fine  granulated  sugar,  not  powdered,  good 
pastry-flour  and  always  the  best  extracts  obtainable.  Well-made  calve,  eaten 
in  moderate  quantities,  is  not  hai'uiful,  but,  on  tlie  contrary,  is  beneficial,  con- 
taining as  it  does  so  much  of  necessary  material  for  the  nourishment  of  the 
body. 

The  cup  used  in  my  rules  is  the  one  in  general  use  everywhere  in  cooking- 
schools,  made  of  tin,  holding  one  half  pint,  and  of  two  kinds — one  for  measuring 
fourths  and  the  other  thirds.  All  dry  materials  are  measured  by  dipping  with 
a  spoon  into  the  cup,  not  by  dipping  with  the  cup  itself,  as  nine  out  of  ten  will 
do,  unless  they  have  been  coolving-scliool  pupils.  Butter  is  measured  packed 
solidly  info  the  cup,  but  always  scant,  sugar  level,  and  flour  just  a  little  round- 
ing, always  sifting  before  measiu'ing,  and  putting  it  lightly  info  the  cup  with  a 
spoon.  Measiu'e  the  balving-powder  rounding  on  fop  just  as  the  spoon  rounds 
underneath,  and  mix  well  with  the  flour.     Sjiices  for  cakes  are  measured  level. 

Before  beginning  to  put  cake  together,  see  that  the  fire  is  ready.    The  baking 

275 


276  CAKES,   COOKIES  AND   IPHItTeHS. 

c'Jiimot  be  clone  siieeessfully  -with  a  new  coal  fire,  neither  mlist  it  be  put  into 
a  cool  oven  and  the  fire  replenished  then.  Perfect  baking  is  obtained  only  by 
having-  a  fire  that  Avill  last  through  the  -ndiole  time,  witli  no  more  care  than 
opening  and  closing  the  drafts.  More  depends  on  the  baking  than  the  mixing 
in  successful  cake-making,  and  it  can  only  be  learned  by  experience. 

With  an  oven  not  hot  enough,  the  cake  rises  witiiout  becoming  firm,  and  at 
the  last  falls,  while  with  too  great  a  heat  the  cake  browns  before  it  i-ises,  and 
as  it  must  expand  in  some  w'ay,  it  does  so  by  means  of  a  yawning  crack  in  the 
middle  of  the  loaf. 

Mix  cake  always  in  earthenware,  never  in  tin.  If  obtainable,  use  wooden 
spoons  made  especially  for  the  purpose,  fiat  and  broad,  made  Avith  three  perfora- 
tions lengthwise.  The  old-fashioned  way  of  mixing  with  the  hand  is  preferable, 
however,  to  tin  or  iron  spoons. 

In  putting  cake  togetlier,  cream  the  butter  first,  then  add  the  sugar  gradually, 
beating  all  the  time,  then  the  flavoring,  and  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  beaten  until 
light  and 'thick.  The  milk  and  flour  are  added,  a  little  of  each  together  at  a 
time,  beating  well  between  each,  adding  until  all  are  in.  Beat  the  whites  of 
eggs  to  a  stiff  froth  and  add  last,  stirring  in  as  lightly  as  possible. 

Do  not  make  the  mistake  of  thinking  tliat  stirring  and   beating  mean  the 

same  thing.    Stirring  is  blending  or  mixing  the  materials,  while  articles  of  food 

are  made  lighter  by  beating,  as  a  certain  amount  of  air  is   inclosed,   which 

expands  on  being  heated. 

Mrs.  G.  L.  Green,  Formerly  Principal  Boston  Y.  M.  C.  A.  School  of   Cookery,  now 
Teacher  of  Cooking  in  the  High  School,  Concord,  New  Hampshire. 

SUGGESTIONS. 

In  warm  weather  lay  the  eggs  in  cold  water,  as  they  will  froth  better. 

Always  use  lard  to  grease  j^our  cake-pans,  as  the  salt  in  the  butter  causes  it 
to  stick  to  the  pans. 

Sweet  milk  and  baking-powder  go  together,  sour  milk  and  soda;  also, 
saleratus  combines  the  properties  of  soda  and  cream  of  tartar,  and  is  always 
used  alone. 

In  all  these  recipes,  except  gingerbread,  where  soda  is  used,  double  the 
amount  of  cream  of  tartar.  Where  you  substitute  baking-powder,  take  just 
the  quantity  of  soda  and  cream  of  tartar  combined.  To  one  quart  of  flour  use 
two  and  one  half  tea  spoonfuls  of  balcing-powder;  or  one  teaspoonful  of  soda 
and  two  teaspoonfuls  of  cream  of  tartar. 

Keep  cakes  in  the  cellar,  in  a  tin  box,  to  keep  them  from  drying  out. 

Keep  the  oven  closed  for  ten  minutes  after  putting  in  your  cake. 

Gingerbread  should  always  be  baked  with  a  very  moderate  fire. 

In  making  cookies,  put  them  into  the  pan  as  soft  as  possible. 

Where  you  want  to  put  sugar  and  spice  on  them,  lay  it  on  the  board,  and 
roll  your  dough  oA'^er  it. 

Never  try  to  ice  a  cake  hot,  and  let  layer  cakes  get  nearly  cold  before  putting 
together. 

All  lard  to  fry  fritters  and  doughnuts  must  be  very,  very  hot  before  putting 
them  in. 

In  using  almond  essence,  be  careful  to  use  only  from  four  to  five  drops,  as  it 
is  very  poisonous. 


CAKeB,  cookies  ANt»  priTterb.  277 

A  uew  kind  of  cake-pan,  with  reniuvable  bottom,  will  be  a  great  boon  to  tlie 
young  housekeeper,  as  it  taki's  a  great  deal  of  experience  to  be  able  to  turn 
cake  out  of  the  pan  in  a  neat  manner;  the  tin  bottom  can  be  left  on  the  cake  if 
desired,  and  used  to  cook  ou. 

BLANCHED  ALMONDS. 

Crack  the  nuts,  and  put  the  meats  into  a  crock,  with  cold  water  over  them. 
Let  tliem  cook  until  they  just  come  to  a  boil,  then  pour  off  the  hot  water,  and 
put  ou  very  cold  water.  Remove  the  shells,  and  dry  the  almonds  on  a  cloth  in 
the  oven,  Avhere  there  will  be  very  little  heat.  They  are  pounded,  and  used  in 
macaroons,  meringues,  etc. 

TO  PPvEPARE  HAI8INS  FOR  CAKE. 

First  take  out  all  the  stems  and  seeds;  th^n  put  them  into  a  dish,  with  just 
water  enough  to  cover  them;  let  them  boil  slowly  one  half  hour,  or  until  the 
water  is  nearly  gone;  then  stir  them  in. your  cake  as  usual.  In  this  way  they 
will  not  be  tough,  and  tear  the  cake  in  cutting. 

Another  way  is  to  take  off  all  the  stems,  and  wash  them  well;  then  spread 
them  on  a  towel  laid  in  a  pan,  and  set  them  in  the  oven  to  dry  thoroughly. 
Before  stirring  into  the  cake  or  pudding,  roll  in  flour. 

FOR  COLORING  CAKES  AND  ICES. 

%  ounce  of  pulverized  cochineal,  y^  ounce  of  cream  of  tartar, 

^2  pint  of  boiling  water,  i^  ounce  of  salts  of  tartar. 

14  ounce  of  alum, 

Let  it  stand  until  the  color  is  extracted,  then  strain  and  bottle. 
Mrs.  A.  E.  Web.ster,  Knowle.sville,  New  York. 

WHITE  CAKE. 

%  cupful  of  butter,  1  cupful  of  sugar, 

1-3  cupful  of  milk,  1%  cupfuls  of  flour, 

1  tablespoonful  of  any  extract,  1  teaspoouful  of  baking-povrder. 

Whites  of  four  eggs. 

Specially  nice  flavored  with  almonds  and  with  blanched  and  chopped  almond.s 

mixed  in  the  frosting.    Bake  thirty  or  forty  minutes. 

Mr.s.  G.  L.  Green,  formerly  Principal  of  Boston  Y.  M.  C.  A.  School  of  Cooker3',  now 
Teacher  of  Cooking  in  the  High  School,  Concord,  New  Hampshire. 

WHITE  LAYER  CAKE. 

8  eggs,  the  whites,  %  of  a  cupful  of  corn-stai"Ch, 

2%  cupfuls  of  sugar,  3  cupfuls  of  flour, 

1  small  cupfid  of  butter,  2%  teaspoonfuls  of  bakiug-powder, 

1  cupful  of  milk,  1  teaspoonful  of  vanilla. 

Follow  the  general  rule  for  mixing  cakes.  This  makes  four  layers.  Spread 
between  each  layer  a  soft  icing,  with  a  tablespoouful  of  some  kind  of  a  bright 
red  jelly  stirred  into  it.  This  makes  a  very  prettj'  cake  when  cut.  Bake  in  deep 
pie-pans. 

Mrs.  T.  L.  Arthur,  Springfield,  Ohio. 


CAKIES,    COOKIES    AND    FRITTERS'. 


MOKA  CAKE. 

Gateau  Moka. 

Prepare  a  Geuoise  paste  mixture  (see  recipe),  put  it  iuto  a  forcing-bag  with  u 
kirge,  plain  pipe  and  witli  it  three  parts  fill  a  plain  timbal-mold;  place  a  well- 
buttered  paper  (cut  sufficiently  deep  to  stand  four  inches  above  the  mold)  around 
tJie  outside  of  the  mold;  put  it  iuto  a  moderate  oven,  and  bake  one  and  a  quarter 
hours,  then  turn  out,  and  when  cold,  maslv  over  with  coffee  glace;  let  this  glace 
set,  then  staud  the  calie  on  a  calvc-bottom,  and  garnish,  as  in  tlie  engraving,  with 
Vienna  icing  in  pink  and  Avhite;  arrange  around  the  edge  some  icing,   then 


sprinkle  with  blanched  and  chopped  pistachio-nuts  or  colored  sugar,  and  when 
the  cake  is  ready  to  serve,  fill  up  the  center  with  stifHy  whipped,  sweetened  and 
flavored  cream  and  a  nice  compote  of  fruits.  This  is  an  excellent  dinner  or 
luncheon  sweet,  or  it  can  be  served  for  any  cold  collation. 


MARBLE-CAKE. 


Dark  ])art— 

7  eggs,  the  yolks, 

2  cupfuls  of  brown  sugar, 

1  cupful  of  butter, 

1  cupful  of  molasses, 

1  cupful  of  sour  cream, 

1  tablespoonful  of  cloves. 
White  part— 

7  eggs,  the  whites, 

2  cupfuls  of  white  sugar, 
1  cupfid  of  butter. 

y^  tea  spoonful  of  soda. 
Put  alternate  laj^ers  of  the  mixture, 
with  the  white;  bake  one  hour. 

Mrs.  E.  C.  W.,  Mount  Vernon,  Ohio. 


5  cupfuls  of  flour, 

1  teaspoonful  of  soda, 

1  teaspoonful  of  pepper, 

2  taljlespoonfuls  of  cinnamon, 
1  tablespoonful  of  allspice. 


1%  cupfuls  of  sweet  milk, 

3  cupfuls  of  flour, 

1  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar, 

beginning  with  the  dark  and  ending 


CAKES,    COOKlf^S    AND    KlilTTEKS.  279 

KEl)  AND  WHITE  MAKIiLE CAKE. 

White— 

3  e,a,«s,  vvliilos,  V:,.  cupful  of  milk, 

V/2  cupfuls  of  sujiJir,  2  cupfuls  of  flour, 

1/.  cupful  of  butter,  1  teaspoouful  of  creaui  of  tartar, 

V,  teas])ooiiful  of  soda. 

Ked- 

1  ei^j?,  yollv,  *  1  cupful  of  Hour, 

%  cupful  of  red  sugar,  1^  teaspoouful  of  cream  of  tartar, 

2  tal)h>spoonfuls  of  butt(>r,  14  teaspoonful  of  soda, 
2  tablespooufuls  of  mill':.  Flavor  to  suit  the  taste. 

Mix  the  colors  accordiu,u-  to  .your  choice.    This  uiakes  a  medium-sized  loaf. 
H.  W.  H.,  Coriiitb,  New  York. 

FllUIT-CAKE. 

7  esrgs,  1  pound  of  currants, 

1  cupfid  of  sugar,  1  pound  of  blanched  almonds, 

1  cupful  of  butter,  1  tablespoonful  of  nutmej--, 

1/2  cui)ful  of  molasses  with  1  tablespoonful  of  cinnamon, 

^2  teas])oonful  of  soda  in  it,  Vj  tablespoonful  of  cloves, 

y^  ))ound  of  citron,  1  ipiart  of  sifted  flour, 

1  pound  of  raisins. 

Flavor  with  about  five  drops  of  almond  essence. 
Beat  the  eggs  separately;  put  whites  in  the  last  thing  before  putting  it  into 

the  pan;  have  the  currants  washed  and  dried  the  day  before;  seed  and  chop  the 

raisins.     Bake  two  hours  in  a  moderate  oven. 
Uliristie  Irving. 

WHITE  FIIUIT-CAKE. 

Tlie  whites  of  twelve  eggs,  two  cupfuls  of  powdered  sugar,  one  cupful  of 
butter,  one  cupful  of  SAveet  cream,  five  cupfuls  of  flour,  one  and  one  half  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  soda  or  four  teaspoonfuls  of  cream  of  tartar,  five  teaspoonfuls  of 
baking-powder,  two  pounds  of  chopped  almonds,  one  pound  of  finely  cut  citron, 
one  pound  of  grated  cocoanut,  two  tablespooufuls  of  rose-water,  one  teaspoonful 
of  lemon  extract,  one  slice  of  sugared  orange-peel,  sliced.  Bake  carefully  lu  a 
moderate  oven  until  it  is  thoroughly  done. 
Mrs.  C.  S.  K.,  .Springfield,  Ohio. 

BLACK  r^RTTIT-CAKE. 

Cream  one  pound  of  sugar  and  one  pound  of  butter  until  light;  then  add  ten 
well-beaten  eggs  and  one  pound  of  flour,  reserving  some  of  it  to  flour  the  fruit; 
spice  the  batter  with  nutmeg,  cinnamon  and  cloves,  two  pounds  of  raisins,  two 
pounds  of  well- washed  currants,  one  pound  of  small-cut  citron,  one  pound  of 
small-cut  English  walnuts  (in  shell),  one  pound  of  dried  figs,  cut  small;  seed, 
and  cut  small  the  raisins.  ^Ilx  all  your  fruit,  add  part  of  one  pound  of  flour 
to  it,  and  flour  the  fruit  well,  so  it  does  not  stick  together;  stir  into  your  batter; 
noM-  add  one  cupful  of  cold  water  in  which  one  teaspoonful  of  soda  has  been 
dissolved.    You  will  find  this  very  fine.    The  water  prevents  Its  being  dry. 

Mrs.  A.  E.  Kirtland,  Author  of  "  Mrs.  Kirtland's  Cook  Book,"  Montgomery,  Alabama. 


280 


CAKES,    COOKIES    AND    FKITTEES. 


WEDDING  FKUIT-C A  KE. 


10  eggs, 

5  level  cupfuls  of  brown  sugar, 

y^  pint  of  molasses, 

3  teacnpfuls  of  soft  butter, 

1  lemon, 

1  pound  of  figs, 

1  pound  of  citron, 

2  pounds  of  currants, 
1  quart  of  flour. 

This  is  a  large  recipe,  and  maltes  two 
erate  oven  for  two  or  three  hoars. 
Kate  McL  ,  Springfield,  Ohio. 


3%  pounds  of  raisins, 

1  heaping  tablespoouful  of  ground 

cinnamon, 
1  heaping  tablespoouful  of  ground 

cloves, 
1  heaping  tablespoouful  of  mace, 
1  grated  nutmeg, 
%  teaspoonful  of  soda, 


large  ealies.    Bake  carefully  in  a  mod- 


PROGRESS  CAKE. 

Gateau  Pr ogres. 

Put  into  an  egg-bowl  eight  whole  eggs,  tAvelve  ounces  of  sugar  and  the  finely 

chopped  peel  of  one  lemon;  whip  these  over  boiling  water  until  the  mixture  is 

quite  warm;  then  remove  frona  the  fire,  and  continue  the  whipping  until  the 

contents  are  thicli  and  cold;  add  to  it  eight  ounces  of  fine  flour  that  has  been 


sifted  and  warmed,  mixing  this  in  gently  with  a  wooden  spoon.  Prepare  a  calie- 
tin  for  halving  by  rubbing  it  over  Avith  warm  butter,  and  lining  it  with  buttered 
kitchen-paper,  then  dusting  it  over  Avith  fine  flour  and  castor-sugar  mixed  in 
equal  quantities;  put  the  prepared  mixture  into  the  tin,  and  bake  it  in  a  moderate 
oven  for  one  and  one  quarter  hours,  then  take  up,  turn  out  the  cake  onto  a 
pasti-y-rack,  and  let  it  remain  until  cold;  then  cut  it  into  rounds  about  one  half 
inch  thick;  spread  the  slices  alternately,  one  with  chocolate  icing,  and  so  on  until 
all  are  masked;  then  arrange  the  cake  again  in  its  original  form,  trim  the  out- 
side neatly,  and  mask  it  over  entirely  with  marascliino  glace;  let  this  remain 
until  set,  and  then  with  forcing-bngs  and  rose-pipes  ornament  the  cake,  as  in 
the  engraving,  with  the  same  icings,  and  dish  up  on  a  fancy  dish-paper.  Serve 
for  a  sweet  for  dinner  or  luncheon  or  for  a  ball  supper. 


CAKES,    COOKIES    AND    FRITTERS.  281 

JELLY-CAKE. 

Take  the  whites  of  eight  eg-.i;s,  two  eupfuls  of  sugar,  one  lialf  cupful  of 
buttt>r,  tlir(>o  fourths  of  a  cupful  of  sweet  luillc,  two  and  one  half  cupfuls  of 
flour,  two  heaping  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder.  Beat  the  Avhites  of  the  eggs 
to  a.  froth;  beat  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream;  divide  Into  tliree  or  four  eipial 
parts,  and  bake  in  jelly-pans;  when  done,  spread  with  jelly,  and  pile  one  cake 
above  the  other. 

L.  H.  Beedy,  Postville,  Iowa. 

LEMON-JELLY  CAKE. 

%  cupful  of  butter,  2  eupfuls  of  sugar, 

3  eggs,  1  cii])ful  of  milk, 

3  eupfuls  of  flour.  2  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder. 

1  teaspoonful  of  lemon  extract. 

Bake  in  four  or  live  layers,  as  you  choose,  and  put  between  them  lemon  jelly 
made  as  follows:  The  grated  rind  of  one  and  the  juice  of  tv>o  lemons,  one  cup- 
ful of  sugar,  one  egg,  one  lialf  cupful  of  water,  one  teaspocnful  of  butter  and 
one  heaping  tablespoonful  of  flour  cooked  over  hot  water  until  they  tliicken; 
cool  before  spreading. 

Mrs.  G.  L.  Green,  Formerly   Principal   Boston    Y.  M.  C.  A.  Sehool   of  Cookery,  now 
Teaclier  of  Cooking  in  the  High  School,  Concoi'd,  New  Hampshire. 

FIG  CAKE. 

V-i  f-npful  of  butter,  1%  eupfuls  of  sugar, 

2  eupfuls  of  flour,  \y-2,  teaf<poonfuls  of  baking-powder, 
%  cupful  of  millc,                                           Whites  of  four  eggs. 

FILLING. 

%  pound  of  finely  chopped  figs,  %  cupful  of  orange-juice  or  water, 

1  tablespoonfid  of  lemon-juice,  v4  eupful  of  sugar. 

Cook  until  smooth  enough  to  spread;  split  the  cake,  and  fill;  cover  with  a 
boiled  icing. 

Miss  Ida  M.  Foster,  City  Hospital,  Wilkesbarre,  Pennsylvania. 

RIBBON  FIG  CAKE. 
White  part— 

2  eupfuls  of  sugar,  3  eupfuls  of  flour, 

2-3  of  a  cupful  of  butter,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder, 

2-3  of  a  cupful  of  milk,  8  eggs,  whites. 

Bake  in  layers. 
Gold  part— 

V-i  cupful  of  butter  and  V-i  cupful  of  milk, 

1  cupful  of  sugar  beaten  to  a  cream,        li/.  eupfuls  of  flour, 
1  whole  egg  and  7  yolks,  1  teaspoonful  of  baking-powder. 

Season  strongly  with  cinnamon  and  allspice;  put  half  the  gold  cake  into  a 
pan,  and  lay  on  it  halved  figs  closely;  dust  with  a  little  flour,  and  then  put  on 
the  rest  of  the  cake,  and  bake;  put  the  gold  calce  between  the  white  cakes,  using 
frosting  between  them,  and  cov(M'  with  frosting. 


282 


CAKES,   COOKIES   AND   FRITTERS, 


FIG  CAKE. 


1  cupful  of  milk, 

%  cupful  of  corn-starch, 

2  cupfuls  of  flour. 


1  teaspoonful  of  allspice  or  cloves, 


6  eggs,  the  whites, 

2  cupfuls  of  sugar, 
%  of  a  cupful  of  butter, 

3  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder. 
Take  one  third  of  the  batter,  and  add 

1  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon, 

1  dozen  figs,  cut  into  small  pieces. 
Bake  in  layers,  two  white  and  one  dark  one,  and  spread  them  with  the 
following  icing:  Three  eggs,  the  whites,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  two  teacupfuls 
of  granulated  sugar,  level  full,  four  tablespoonfuls  of  water;  boil  the  sugar  and 
water  together  five  minutes,  then  pour  it  on  the  whites,  and  beat  until  cold. 
One  half  pound  of  blanched  almonds  pounded  to  a  paste  is  an  addition. 

Mrs.  J.  Kyle,  Springfield,  Ohio. 

DELMONICO  CAKE. 

Gdteau  d  la  Delmonico. 
Butter  a  bomb-mold,  dust  it  over  with  finely  chopped  dried  cocoanut,  and  fill 
it  witli  tlie  cake  mixture,  as  below;  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  about  one  hour, 
then  turn  out  the  cake,  cover  it  all  over  with  almond  icing,  dust  it  over  with 


icing-sugar,  place  it  again  in  a  moderate  oven  until  a  nice  golden  color,  then 
remove;  set  it  aside  until  cold,  and  mask  it  ever  with  icing,  smoothing  the 
surface  of  this  over  with  a  wet  palette-knife;  take  some  very  finely  shredded 
blanched  pistachio-nuts,  also  some  finely  sliced  uncrytallized  cherries,  and 
with  these  ornament  the  cake  in  six  alternate  divisions,  as  shown  in  the  engra- 
ving; garnish  lengthwise  betAveen  each  division  with  pink  and  white  Vienna 
icing  by  means  of  a  forcing-bag  and  a  pipe;  dish  up  on  a  calie-bottora,  and 
garnish  the  base  of  this  with  icing  and  angelica,  and  the  top  of  the  calve  with 
the  Vienna  icing;  place  the  cake  on  a  dish-paper,  and  serve  for  a  sweet  for 
dinner  or  for  any  cold  collation. 

Cake  Mixture  for  Delmonico  Cake.— Take  four  whole  raw  eggs,  one  des- 
sert-spoonful of  blacli  coffee,  six  ounces  of  castor-sugar,  a  few  drops  of  vanilla 
essence  and  the  finely  chopped  peel  of  one  lemon;  whip  'ill  together  over  boiling 
Avater  until  warm,  then  remove,  and  continue  whipping  until  cold,  then  add 
four  ounces  of  fine  warmed  floxu"  that  has  been  sifted;  mix  well,  and  use. 


CAKES,    COOKIES    AND    FRITTERS,  283 

CHOCOLATE  LAYER  CAKE. 

3  eggs,  the  whites,  2  large  tabUspooiifuls  of  butter, 
2  ciipfuls  of  sugar,                    3  cupfuls  of  flour, 

1  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  2  heapiug  teaspooufuls  of  bakiug-poAvder. 
Bake  half  of  the  batter  iu  tAvo  paus,  and  to  the  reiuaiuiug  half  add  one  half 

cupful  of  grated  chocolate;  then  bake;  AA'hen  done,  pile  up  the  laj-ers  alternately 
light  and  dark,  spreading  chocolate  icing  between. 
Mrs.  Louisa  Ash,  Mt.  Veriioii,  Ohio. 

CHOCOLATE  LOAF  CAKE. 

Grate  one  half  cake  of  balv(>r's  cliocolatc,  and  mix  it  Avith  one  half  cupful  of 
milk  and  the  yolk  of  one  eiX'j;;  [)ut  it  on  the  back  part  of  the  stoA^e  to  dissoh'e 
and  lu'at  through;  AA'heu  tlioroughly  AA-arnied,  set  it  off  to  cool  AAdiile  preparing 
the  cake.  Take  two  eggs,  the  yolk  of  one  haAing  been  used,  tAA'o  cupfuls  of 
sugar,  one  cupful  of  butter,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissoh-ed  in  a  little  AA'ater; 
add  the  «'hocolate,  and  flour  enough  to  make  a  thiu  batter  that  AA'ill  pour  smooth. 
Bake  carefully. 

Mrs.  J.  Willis,  Springfield,  Ohio. 

JELLY  OR  CHOCOLATE   CAKE. 

4  eggs,  1/4  cupful  of  milk, 

2  cupfuls  of  sugar,  1  teaspoonful  of  soda, 

1  cupful  of  butter,  2  teaspooufuls  of  cream  of  tartar  or 

3  cupfuls  of  flour,  2  teaspooufuls  of  baking-poAA'dcr. 
Bake  in  jelly-tins,  and  spread  AA'ith  jelly  or  chocolate  prepared  in  this  AA'ay: 

Take  one  fourth  of  a  cake  of  grated  baker's  chocolate,  one  half  cupful  of  milk, 
one  half  cupful  of  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  of  A'auilla,  one  heaping  teaspoonful 
of  corn-starch;  put  the  chocolate,  sugar  and  milk  on  tlie  stoA^e  in  a  saucepan, 
and  just  let  it  boil;  add  the  corn-starch,  and  after  taking  it  off  the  stoAc,  add 
tlie  A^anilla;  AA'hen  cool,  spread  betAAcen  the  cakes;  ice  the  top  or  sift  poAvdered 
sugar  OA'er  it. 

SrONGE-CAKE. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  until  thick  and  the  AA'hites  to  a  stiff  froth;  mix 
nearly  all  of  one  cupful  of  sugar  AAnth  the  AA'hites,  the  remainder  AA-itli  the  yolks, 
and  tlien  beat  the  tAA^o  together;  add  one  fourth  of  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  tea- 
spoonful of  lemon  extract,  and  one  cupful  of  flour  iu  AA'hich  has  been  mixed  one 
generous  teaspoonful  of  baklng-poAA'der;  lastlj^  add  one  half  cupful  of  boiling 
AA'ater.    Bake  thirty  minutes. 

Mrs.  G.  L.  Green,  Formerly  Principal  of   Boston  Y.  M.  C.  A.  School  of  Cookery,  now 
Teacher  of  Cooking  in  the  High  School,  Concord,  New  Hampshire. 

WHITE-MOUNTAIN  CAKE. 

Y'olks  of  three  eggs,  whites  of  two,  two  cupfuls  of  flour  and  one  and  one 
fourth  teaspooufuls  of  baking-poAA'der.  T'se  the  third  white  for  jnaking  your 
frosting;  bake  in  small  cups  or  pans,  filling  them  half  full;  put  half  an  English 
AA'alnut  on  each  before  baking;  frost  over  the  nuts  after  taking  from  the  pans. 
This  rule  malces  eighteen  calces. 

Miss  Harriott  T,  Ward,  Scientific  and  Special  Teacher  of  Cooking,  Boston^ 


284  CAKES,    COOKIES    AND   FRITTERS. 

IMPERIAL  CAKE. 

GMeau  S  V Imperiale. 
Whip  twelve  whole  eggs,  one  pound  of  castor-sugar  and  two  ounces  of 
vanilla  sugar  over  boiling  water  until  the  mixture  is  warm,  then  remove  it 
from  the  fire,  and  whip  it  until  cold  and  thicli;  add  twelve  ounces  of  finely 
sifted  flour,  four  ounces  of  finely  chopped  desiccated  cocoanut,  and  mix  well; 
then  divide  the  mixture  into  three  parts;  color  one  part  with  carmine,  and 
flavor  it  with  six  or  eight  drops  of  essence  of  almonds;  color  the  second  portion 
with  sap-green,  and  flavor  it  with  essence  of  lemon,  and  leave  the  third  portion 
white;  sprinlile  over  each  a  little  more  cocoanut,  place  each  portion  separately 
in  a  saate-pan  or  round  baking-tin  about  eight  inches  wide  by  two  inches  deep, 
and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  about  one  half  hour;  when  cooked,  turn  out, 
and  leave  until  cold,  then  cut  each  into  tw-o  slices  horizontally,  spread  a  layer 
of  Vienna  icing  flavored  with  chocolate  over  each  of  the  red-colored  portions, 
arrange  a  layer  of  Vienna  icing  over  the  green-colored  portions  and  a  layer 
of  rose-colored  Vienna  icing  over  the  white  parts;  then  place  each  slice  of  the 


cake  one  on  top  of  the  other,  arrange  the  different  colors  effectively.  Prepare  a 
paste  bottom  about  one  inch  thick  and  the  same  size  as  the  cake,  and  bake  it 
until  a  nice  golden  color;  then  place  the  prepared  cakes  in  this,  glaze  it  with 
maraschino  glace,  and  leave  it  until  set;  then  by  means  of  a  forcing-bag  and 
rose  and  plain  pipes  ornament  the  top  and  sides,  as  in  the  engraving,  with 
Vienna  icing  and  rose-colored  Vienna  icing,  and  put  it  aside  until  the  next  day 
to  dry.  Dish  up  on  a  round  silver  dish  on  a  gold  or  silver  dessert-paper,  and 
serve  for  a  ball  supper  or  afternoon  party,  etc. 

ANGEL'S-FOOD. 

11  eggs,  the  whites,  1  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar, 

1%  cupf uls  of  sifted  powdered  sugar,       1  teaspoonful  of  vanilla, 

1  cupful  of  flour,  A  pinch  of  salt. 

Sift  the  flour,  cream  of  tartar,  sugar  and  salt  together  four  or  five  times;  beat 
the  eggs  in  a  large  platter  to  a  stiff  froth,  then  add  the  sifted  flour  gradually  on 
the  platter  with  the  eggs.  Don't  let  it  stand  a  minute  after  it  is  thoroughly 
mixed;  bake  forty  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven.  Try  it  with  a  straw,  and  if  not 
done,  let  it  bake  a  few  minutes  longer.  Do  not  open  the  oven  door  until  the  ca,ke 
has  been  in  the  oven  fifteen  minutes. 

Miss  Stella  Reid,  Jackson,  Micbigan, 


CAKES,    COOKIES    AND    FRITTERS.  285 

ANGEL'S-FOOD. 

1  pound  of  pulverized  sugai-,  3  teaspoonfuls  of  creaui  of  tartiir, 

1/4  pound  of  corn-starch,  i/4  pound  of  flour,  , 

y-i  teaspoonful  of  essence  of  vanilla,  15  whites  of  eggs. 
Whip  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  one  third  of  a  pound  of  pulverized 
sugar,  and  whip  well;  the  reniaiuing  two  thirds  of  a  pound  of  sugar,  the  flour 
and  corn-starch  must  be  mixed  thoroughly  and  sifted  three  times,  add  all  at 
once  to  the  froth,  mix  well,  add  tlie  vanilla,  and  put  it  Into  a  perfectly  dry  pan. 
Kalce  in  a  moderate  oven  about  forty-five  minutes,  then  turn  the  pan  upside 
down  on  a  clean  sheet  of  paper,  and  Avithin  a  few  hours  the  cake  will  drop  on 
the  paper. 

N.  B.— Never  grease  the  pan,  or  attempt  to  remove  the  calve  while  warm. 

Eugene  Stuyvesant  Howard,  Member  of  tVie  Universal  Cookery  and  Food  Association, 
London,  England,  and  Clief  de  Cuisine,  Louisville  Hotel,  Louisvjlle,  Kentucky. 

CREAM  CAKE. 
Beat  two  eggs  in  a  teacup,  and  fill  the  cup  with  sweet  cream. 

1  cupful  of  sugar,  1  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar. 

1  teaspoonful  of  baking-powder  or  1  cupful  of  flour, 
y-y  teaspoonful  of  soda. 

Flavor  with  lemon,  and  bake  in  a  moderately  heated  oven. 
M.  C.  A.  Gould,  Rock  Rift,  New  York. 

LAYER  CREAM  CAKE. 

0  eggs,  2  cupfuls  of  flour, 

2  cupfuls  of  sugar,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  cream  of  tartar, 
2  tablespoonfuls  of  water,                         1  teaspoonful  of  soda. 

Bake  twenty  minutes  with  a  quick  fire,  and  when  cold,  cut  it  in  two;  then 
spread  on  the  cream  made  after  the  following  recipe: 

2  eggs,  1  cupful  of  sugar, 

y-i  cupful  of  corn-starch. 
Beat  these  ingredients  well,  and  pour  it  into  one  pint  of  boiling  milk;  flavor 
with  the  grated  rind  and  juice  of  a  lemon  or  a  teaspoonful  of  the  extract  of 
lemon.    Half  of  the  above  quantity  makes  a  nice  cake  for  a  small  family. 
Mrs.  M.  E.,  Creston,  Iowa. 

MARY'S  COCOANUT  CAKE. 

6  eggs,  the  whites,  3  cupfuls  of  flour, 

2  cupfuls  of  powdered  sugar,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder 

74  of  a  cupful  of  butter,  1  cupful  of  sweet  milk, 

1  teaspoonful  of  lemon  essence. 

Bake  this  as  loaf  cake,  and  the  next  day  cut  off  the  upper  and  lower  crusts, 
trim  the  brown  off  the  sides,  and  slice  it  into  foiu-  layers;  grate  two  cocoanuts, 
and  put  in  the  icing;  spread  each  layer,  the  top  and  sides,  with  plenty  of  the 
icing.  When  cut,  it  will  be  perfectly  white  all  thi'ough,  and  a  very  handsome 
cake. 

Mrs.  A.  Winger,  Springfield,  Ohio. 


286 


CAKES,    COOKIES    AND    FRITTERS. 


CARAMEL  CAKE. 

Two  cupfuls  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  butter,  one  cupful  of  luilk,  three  ami  one 
h.-ilf  cupfuls  of  flaur,  the  whites  of  seveu  eggs,  two  heaping  teaspoonfuls  of 
baking-powder;  flavor  with  vanilla;  bake  in  three  layers. 

Filling— One  cupful  of  dark  brown  sugar  aiid  one  cupful  of  white  sugar,, 
mixed;  cover  it  wi-ll  with  water,  and  let  it  boil  to  a  candy  that  will  break 
against  the  cup  when  you  try  it  in  cold  water;  then  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
sweet  cream  and  one  heaping  teaspoonful  of  Initter,  beat  it  very  thoroughly  in 
a  cool  place  until  the  mixture  is  cool  enough  to  spread;  flavor  with  vanilla  just 
before  spreading. 

NEArOLlTAN  CAKE. 

Odteau  Napolitaine. 
Take  one  pound  of  fine  flour  that  has  been  sifted,  rub  into  it  one  half  pound 
of  good  butter  until  quite  smooth,  and  mix  into  it  one  half  pound  of  castor- 
sug:ir,  one  half  pound  of  very  finely  chopped  blanched  sweet  alnionds,  fou^r  raw 
yolks  of  eggs,  three  large  tablespoonfuls  of  orange-flower  Avater  and  about  twelve 
drops  of  essence  of  vanilla,  and  work  it  into  a  very  stiff  paste  with  cream  or 


milk;  roll  the  mixture  out  about  one  fourth  of  an  inch  thick,  and  stamp  out  of  it 
rings  about  six  inches  in  diameter  outside;  place  these  rings  on  a  wetted  baking- 
tin,  and  prick  them  all  over  with  a  pricker  or  fork,  brush  over  lightly  with  new 
milk,  put  them  into  a  moderate  oven,  and  bake  for  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes 
until  a  pretty  fawn  color;  take  them  from  the  tin,  and  put  them  separately  on 
the  table  to  be  pressed  under  a  board  with  a  heavy  weight  on  top,  and  leave 
them  until  cold;  arrange  them  one  on  top  of  the  other  with  a  little  apricot  or 
any  nice  jam  between  each  ring;  when  all  the  pieces  are  iilaced  together,  trim 
off  all  around  any  irregular  pieces  from  the  outside.  Prepare  an  apricot  glace, 
or  of  any  other  nice  jam,  and  by  means  of  a  paste-brush  brxish  the  cake  all  over 
with  it;  let  this  get  set,  ami  then  place  it  on  a  paste  bottom  ornamented  with 
icing,  and  then  oimament  the  cake  with  the  icing  by  means  of  a  forcing-bag 
and  pipe,  and  garnish  Avith  little  pieces  of  dried  cherries  and  angelica,  or  any 
other  nice  fruit,  and  dish  up  on  a  pretty  dish-paper.  This  cake  can  be  served 
for  a  dinner  sweet  or  for  any  cold  collation,  and  may  be  fille<3  with  whii)i)ed 
cream  ,sw(>etei)ed  and  flavor(>d.  or  with  ice  or  iced  .souffles,    . 


CAKES,    COOKIES    AND    FRITTERS.  287 

NUT-CAKE. 

^/l-  cupful  ol'  butler,  Vi  cupl'ul  ot  milk, 

V/j  cupfuls  of  su;;ar,  2^!  cupfuls  of  (lour, 

3  oggs,  V/y  toaspooufuls  of  bakiug-powtler, 

1  cupful  of  the  moats  of  any  kiud  of  uuts. 
Mrs.  J.  E.  C,  Springfield,  Ohio. 

IIICKOIIY-NUT  CAKE. 

4  eggs,  2VL>  cupfuls  of  flour, 

2  cupfuls  of  suuar.  i/.  cupful  of  cream  or  huller, 

2  teaspooufuls  of  baking-powder. 
Bake  in  jelly-tins,  and  between  the  layers  spi-ead  the  following  cream:  Two 
eggs,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  two  h(>aping  lal)lespo(jnfiUs  of  coru-slarch,  one  coffee- 
cupful  of  chopped  hickory-nut  meats,  one  i)int  of  milk.  Beat  the  eggs,  sugar, 
corn-starch  and  nuts  together,  and  stir  it  into  the  pint  of  milk  while  it  is  boiling: 
let  it  cook  as  thick  as  a  custard,  and  when  cold,  spread  it  between  the  layers. 

"  Hazel  Kirk,"  Cozy  Ne.st. 

MARSHMALLOW  CAKE. 

1%  cupfuls  of  sugar,  %  cupful  of  butter. 

^2  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  V/j  cupfuls  of  pastry-flour, 

¥2  cupful  of  cor)i-starch.  Whites  of  six  eggs, 

2  even  teaspooufuls  of  baking-powder. 
Flavor  with  one  half  teaspoonful  of  extract  of  anise.  Bake  in  two  large 
layers  or  three  small  ones.  Make  a  rule  of  boiled  icing;  when  ready  I0  cool, 
add  TO  one  third  of  it  four  fresh  mnrshmallows,  cut  into  small  bits,  and  a  few 
drops  of  the  anise;  stir  until  perfectly  smooth  and  the  mallows  are  dissolved. 
then  put  between  the  layers;  add  a  few  drops  of  anise  to  the  remainder  of  the 
icing;  when  cool  enough  to  spread,  cover  the  eutii(  cake;  then  split  in  half  a 
sufficient  number  of  the  mallows  to  lay  around  the  top  edge  of  the  cake,  toast 
them  slightly  on  top,  and  arrange  them  Avhile  the  icing  is  soft;  arrange  three 
halves  in  the  center,  and  twist  a  bit  of  the  mallow  for  a  stem,  forming  a  clover- 
leaf;  take  more  halves,  not  toasted,  fold  them  together,  and  lay  them  around  the 
base  of  the  cake.  This  is  a  most  delicious  and  elegant-looking  cake,  and  is  my 
.favorite  specialty. 

Miss  Emily  E.  Squire,  Author  of  "Woronoco  Women's  Wisdom,"  Westfleld,  Mass. 

MRS.  DEAN'S  CUSTARD-CAKE. 

2  eggs,  4  tablespoonfnls  of  water, 

'M>  cupful  of  sugar,  1  cupful  of  flour, 

1  heaping  teaspoonful  of  baking-powder. 
Cream— 

V2  cupful  of  sugar,  1  tablespoonful  of  corn-starch, 

%  of  a  cupful  of  milk,  1  teaspoonful  of  essence  of  lemon. 

Boil  until  thick  as  jelly;  bake  the  cake  in  jelly-cako  pans,  and  when  cool, 
piit  the  cream  between  each  one,  and  ice  it  or  not,  as  you  choose. 


288 


CAitES,   COOKIES   AND   FRITTERS. 


CAKE  A  LA  PEINCESSE  MAUD. 
Gdteau  a  la  Princesse  Maud. 
Put  six  ounces  of  castor-sugar  into  a  stew-pan,  with  four  whole  eggs  and  one 
teaspoonful  of  vanilla  essence,  add  a  little  carmine  to  make  it  a  pretty  pinli 
color,  and  whip  over  boiling  Avater  until  the  mixture  is  warm;  then  remove  the 
pan  from  the  water,  continue  the  whippiiig  until  cold  and  stiff,  and  mix  into  it 
four  ounces  of  fine  flour  that  has  been  sifted  and  warmed.  Prepare  a  tin  for 
baking  the  mixture  by  brushing  it  over  with  warm  butter,  tlien  paper  it,  and 
butter  this  paper  also;  dust  it  over  with  flour  and  sugar  that  have  been  mixed 
in  equal  quantities,  pour  in  the  prepared  mixture,  and  bake  it  in  a  moderate 
oven  for  one  and  one  quarter  hours;  then  turn  out  the  cake,  and  scoop  out  the 
inside  so  as  to  form  a  case;  line  this  case  with  almond  icing,  and  fill  up  tlie 
center  with  the  chocolate  meringue  mixture  (see  recipe);  replace  the  cake  on  a 
baking-tin,  and  put  it  into  a  moderate  oven  to  dry  for  one  half  hoiu";  then  when 
firm,  remove  it  to  a  pastry-rack,  pour  over  it  a  strawberry  or  red  maraschino 


glace;  let  this  cool,  then  place  it  on  a  calve-bottom  ornamented  with  icing,  and 

ornament  the  cake,  as  in  the  engraving,  with  icing  in  two  colors,  one  colored 

brown  with  coffee.    Serve  it  on  a  dish-paper  for  a  dinner  sweet  or  for  luncheon 

or  ball  supper. 

ORANGE  CAKE. 

Bake  a  simple  sponge-cake  in  a  round,  deep  pan,  and  when  cold,  cut  it  with 
a  sharp  knife  into  four  layers;  peel  and  slice  six  or  eight  oranges,  and  put  a 
layer  of  oranges  on  the  first  layer  of  cake,  and  cover  them  with  sugar,  then 
another  layer  of  cake,  then  oranges  and  sugar  until  they  are  all  used.  Make  a 
soft  icing,  and  just  let  it  brown  in  the  oven. 

CHRISTMAS  CAKE. 

2  pounds  of  powdered  sugar,  1  pound  of  butter, 

24  eggs,  whites,  1  teacupful  of  sweet  cream, 

2  pounds  of  sifted  flour,        ^  1  tablespoonful  of  lemon  extract. 

Mix  all,  and  beat  thoroughly  for  one  half  hour.  Have  a  fancy,  high  mold, 
grease,  fill  three  fourths  full,  and  bake  in  a  steady  oven;  when  done,  remove 
from  the  mold.  Make  a  thin  icing;  place  the  cake  on  the  plate;  with  a  spoon  put 
the  icing  on  top,  and  allow  it  to  run  down  the  sides  until  every  part  is  covered. 
Ornament  with  fiowers,  leaves  or  bonbons. 


CAKES,   COOKIES   AND   I'RITTEUS.  289 

CITRON  CAKi:. 

Beat  separately  the  whites  and  yolks  of  four  epLvs,  three  cupfuls  of  sugar, 
one  cupful  of  butter,  oiu>  half  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  three  cupfuls  of  flour,  two 
and  one  half  teaspooufuls  of  baking-powder,  one  half  pound  of  citron,  chopped 
and  rolled  in  flour.    Bake  in  long,  narrow  pans. 
Mrs.  D.  C.  Young,  Larrabee,  Pennsylvania. 

SILVER  CAKE. 

Beat  the  whites  of  seven  eggs  to  a  stitf  froth,  two  cupfuls  of  powdered  sugar, 
two  thirds  cupful  of  buttej-,  one  half  cupful  of  milk,  two  teaspooufuls  of  baking- 
])owder  or  one  teaspoouful  of  cream  of  tartar,  one  half  ten  spoonful  of  soda, 
three  cupfuls  of  flour,  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  or  four  drops  of  almond 
essence.    Bake  in  a  loaf  for  one  half  hour. 

GOLD  CAKE. 

Take  the  yolks  of  seven  eggs,  add  another  egg,  and  make  just  the  same  as 
silver  cake,  with  a  little  more  butter  added;  flavor  with  lemon  essence. 
Mrs.  W.  W.  Pitman,  Brooklyn,  New  York. 

TEXAS  CAKE,  OR  SILVER  CAKE. 

Cream  one  cupful  of  butter  and  three  cupfuls  of  sugar  until  light,  add  one 
cupful  of  sweet  milk  and  five  cupfuls  of  sifted  flour  wMth  two  teaspooufuls  of 
baking-powder  in  it;  sift  two  or  three  timesi  to  distribute  the  baking-powder; 
lastly  stir  in  gently  the  whites  of  twelve  eggs,  beaten  stiff,  and  one  teaspoonful 
of  almond  extract. 

Mrs.  A.  E.  Kirtland,  Author  of  "Mrs.  Kirtland's  Cook  Book,"  Montgomery,  Alabama. 

SPICE-CAKE. 

1  egg,  y-2  cupful  of  butter, 

1/2  cupful  of  sugar,  '/^  cupful  of  molasses, 

lA  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  %  cupful  of  chopped  raisins, 

V-i  cupful  of  citron,  cut  small,  2iX>  cupfuls  of  flour, 

i/l>  teaspoonful  of  soda. 
Spice  with  nutmeg,  cloves  and  cinnamon;  bake  in  patty-pans,  and  ice.    They 
are  so  nice. 

Mrs.  A.  E.  Kirtland,  Author  of  "  Mrs.  Kirtland's  Cook  Book,"  Montgomery,  Alabama. 

SPICE-CAKE. 

4  eggs,  leaving  out  the  whites  of  2,  2  cupfuls  of  brown  sugar, 

1-^  cupful  of  melted  butter,  V-2  cupful  of  sour  milk, 

1  teaspoonful  of  soda,  2  teaspooufuls  of  cinnamon, 
1%  teaspooufuls  of  cloves,  '4  teaspoonful  of  nutmeg, 

2  cupfuls  of  flour. 

Dissolve  the  soda  in  the  sour  milk.    Bake  in  layers.    Make  the  icing  to  spread 

between  with  the  whites  of  two  eggs  and  one  cupful  of  sugar. 

Mrs.  Jos.  Kyle,  Springfield,  Ohio. 
10 


290 


CAKES,    COOKIES    AND   FRITTEES. 


LITTLE  BEATRICE  CAKES. 

Petits  Gateaux  d,  la  Beatrice. 
'  Line  some  little  boat-shaped  molds  very  thinly  with  short  paste,  as  below, 
trim  oif  the  edges,  and  place  inside  each  case  three  dried  cherries;  cover  these 
entirely  with  a  layer  of  almond  mixture,  as  beloT\',  and  place  the  case  on  a 
baking-tin,  and  cooli  in  a  moderate  oven  for  about  fifteen  minutes;  then  remove 
them  from  the  tins;  allow  them  to  cool,  and  mask  each  over  with  maraschino 
glace;  let  this  get  cold,  then  by  }r!eans  of  a  forcing-bag  and  little,  plain  pipe 
ornament  the  tops  with  a  little  royal  icing  in  any  pretty  design  in  two  colors, 
brown  and  pink— for  the  former  color  a  portion  of  the  icing  with  coffee  brown, 
and  for  the  latter  use  a  little  carmine.  When  ready  to  serve,  dish  up  on  a  dish- 
paper  or  napkin,  and  serve  for  a  sweet  for  dinner  or  luncheon  or  for  any  cold 
collation. 

Shoet  Paste  for  Beatrice  Cakes.— Rub  three  ounces  of  fine  flour  into  one 
and  one  half  ounces  of  butter  until  quite  smooth,  add  one  ounce  of  fine  sugar 


and  one  raw  yolk  of  egg,  and  mix  with  orange-flower  water  into  a  stiff  paste, 
then  use.     This  quantity  is  sufficient  for  twelve  to  fifteen  cases. 

Almond  Mixture  for  Beatrice  Cake.— Take  one  fourtli'  of  a  pound  of  very 
finely  chopped  blanched  almonds  or  pistachio-nuts,  and  mix  with  them  four 
ounces  of  castor-sugar,  one  dessert-spoonful  of  orange-flower  water,  six  or  eight 
drops  of  essence  of  vanilla,  one  half  raw  white  of  egg  and  a  little  of  apple  or 
sap  green  to  mal!;e  it  a  nice  pistachio  color. 


DONNA'S  POUND-CAKE. 


1  pound  of  eggs, 
1  pound  of  sugar, 
Flavor  to  suit  the  taste. 


1  pound  of  butter, 
1  pound  of  flour, 


Beat  well,  and  bake  three  quarters  of  an  hour. 
Mrs.  L.  P.  W.,  Laurens  C.  H.,  South  Carolina. 


CORN-STARCH  CAKE. 


1%  cupfuls  of  sugar, 
6  eggs,  whites, 
%  cupful  of  mill<, 
1%  cupfuls  of  flour. 


Vi  cupful  of  corn-starch, 

%  cupful  of  butter, 

2  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder. 

Lemon  to  flavor. 


After  all  is  well  mixed,  add  one  half  cupful  of  cold  water. 


CAKES,    COOKIES    AND    FRITTERS.  291 

^EW-YEAK^S  CAKE. 

ly,  poimds  of  butter,  creamed,  Beat  well,  and  sift  lu 

15  es^gs,  beateu  yolk.s,  2  (scaut)  pounds  of  tlour,  with 

V/j  pounds  of  sugar,  3  tablespooufuls  of  balciug-powder. 

Mix  in  the  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs.  Grate  two  lemons  in  one  half  eupfnl 
of  molasses,  add  it  with  two  pounds  of  finely  chopped  almonds,  one  pound  of 
seeded  raisins,  one  pound  of  chopped  citron.  Bake  two  hours  in  a  moderate 
oven;  when  cold,  ice  nicely. 

THANKSGIVING  CAKE. 

2%  pounds  of  flour,  in  which  mix  18  eggs, 

3  pounds  of  sugar,  .  Y^  pound  of  beaten  almonds, 

2  pounds  of  butter,  1  grated  cocoa  nut, 

3  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder,  1  toacupful  of  preserved  lemon-peel, 
2  tablespooufuls  of  extract  of  lemon. 

Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  two  hours;  when  cool,  ornament  handsomely  with 
icing  and  fancy  bonbons. 

DUTCH  CAKE. 

Take  a  piece  of  light  bread-dough  the  size  of  a  large  teacup,  a  piece  of  butler 
the  size  of  a  hen's  egg, 

2  eggs,  1  teacupful  of  dried  currants, 

1  cupful  of  sugar,  1  teaspoouful  of  soda. 
Flavor  with  cinnamon  or  lemon. 

Mix  until  of  the  consistency  of  cake-batter,  and  bake  in  a  moderately  quick 
oven. 

Sallie  E.  Ruff,  Kingville,  Mississippi. 

PORTUGAL  CAKE. 

%  pound  of  flour,  1  pound  of  sugar, 

8  eggs,  y2  pound  of  butter. 

The  grate  of  one  lemon. 

One  fourth  teaspoouful  of  soda  dissolved  in  one  tablespoonful  of  sour  cream 
improves  it,  though  not  necessary,  as  it  is  very  nice  without  it. 

Miss  Harriott  T.  Ward,  Scientific  and  Special  Teacher  of  Cooking,  Boston,  Mass. 

VANITY  CAKE. 

6  eggs,  the  whites,  14  cupful  of  corn-starch, 

V/j  cupfuls  of  sugar,  li^  eupfuls  of  floui*, 

%  cupful  of  butter,  1  teaspoouful  of  baking-powder, 

%  cupful  of  milk,  PTavor  to  suit  the  taste. 

Follow  the  usual  directions  for  mixing,  and  bake  carefully. 
Mrs.  Markley,  Dayton,  Ohio. 

BUTTER  SPONGE-CAKE. 

2  cupfuls  of  flour,  2  cupfuls  of  sugar, 
1  cupful  of  butter,  5  eggs. 

Juice  and  grate  of  one  lemon. 

Miss  Harriott  T.  Ward,  Scientific  and  Special  Teacher  of  Cooking,  Boston,  Mass. 


292 


CAKES,    COOKIES   AND    FRITTERS. 


DARK  CAKE. 

Three  eupfuls  of  molasses,  one  cupful  of  butter  (or  part  of  beef-drippings  or 
lard  may  be  used;  if  tliey  are,  be  sure  to  add  salt),  oue  teaspoonful  of  each  kind 
of  spice,  four  eggs,  three  eupfuls  of  stoned  raisins,  one  cupful  of  citron,  oue  tea- 
spoonful  of  soda,  one  cupful  of  brown  sugar,  one  half  grated  nutmeg,  one  cup- 
ful of  milli,  three  eupfuls  of  currants,  seven  and  one  half  eupfuls  of  flour.  One 
square  of  plain  chocolate,  melted  and  stirred  in,  makes  a  darker,  richer  cake. 
Bake  slowly  one  hour.    This  rule  makes  two  loaves,  and  keeps  excellently. 

Mrs.  G.  L.  Green,  Formerly   Principal    Boston   Y.  M.  C.  A.  School  of  Cookery,  now 
Teacher  of  Cooking  in  the  High  School,  Concord,  New  Hampshn-e. 

BRETON  CAKE. 

Gdteaii  Breton. 
Prepare  five  or  six  of  the  Breton  border-molds  of  various  sizes;  partly  fill  each 
one  of  the  molds  with  cake  mixture,  as  below,  then  stand  the  molds  on  baking- 
tins,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  twenty-five  to  thirty  minutes,  then  turn 
out,  and  leave  until  cold;  mask  over  the  top  part  of  each  piece  with  apricot  jam 


that  has  been  rubbed  through  a  sieve,  and  place  the  pieces  together,  resting  one 
on  the  other,  and  putting  the  larger  ones  at  tlie  bottom;  glaze  over  with  mar- 
aschino glace,  leave  until  cold,  then  arrange  together,  ornament  with  Vienna 
icing,  place  the  cake  on  a  dish  paper,  and  serve  for  dinner,  handed  with  a  com- 
pote of  fruits,  or  it  may  be  served  alone  for  afternoon  tea  or  for  dessert. 

Breton-cake  Mixture.— Take  eight  Avhole  eggs,  twelve  ounces  of  castor- 
sugar,  the  finely  chopped  peel  of  a  lemon,  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  essence, 
sufficient  carmine  to  make  it  a  pale  salmon  color,  one  salt-spoonful  of  ground 
ginger,  and  as  much  ground  cinnamon  as  would  cover  a  nickel;  whip  over 
boiling  Avater  until  warm,  then  take  up,  and  whip  until  cold  and  thick,  then 
mix  Avith  eight  ounces  of  warmed  fine  flour  that  has  been  passed  through  a, 
:Sieve,  and  use. 


CAKES,    COOKIES    AND    EKITTERS.  293 

WATEKMELON  CAKE. 

White  part— 

5  eggs,  AvJiites,  2-3  cupful  of  swett  milk, 

2  cupfuls  of  white  sugar,  o  eupfuls  of  tlonr, 

2-3  cupful  of  batter,  1  tablespoonful  of  baking-powder. 

Reil  part— 

5  eggs,  whites,  2  cupfuls  of  tiour, 

1  cupful  of  red  sugar,  1  tablespoonful  of  baking-powder, 
1-3  cupful  of  butter,  1-3  cupful  of  sweet  milk, 

1/^  pound  of  seeded  raisins,  rolled  in  tiour. 
First  put  the  white  part  into  a  cake-pan,  keeping  it  away  from  the  center 
and  well  around  the  sides;  then  poxu'  the  red  part  into  the  center,  and  bake. 
The  sugar  should  be  bright  red,  not  solferino.    This  makes  a  good-sized  loaf. 

Mrs.  I.  C.  Souders,  Dayton,  Ohio. 

ICED  ORANGE  CAKE. 

Put  six  whole  eggs  into  a  saucepan,  with  a  salt-spoonful  of  vanilla  essence, 
ten  ounces  of  i)owdered  sugar,  the  very  finely  chopped  peel  of  three  oranges  and 
a  teaspoouful  of  liquid  carmine;  whip  this  mixture  witli  a  whisk  over  boiling 
water  on  the  stove  until  it  is  warm,  then  remove  from  the  lire,  and  continue 
the  wliipping  until  the  ingredients  are  cold  and  thick  like  stilfly  whipped  cream; 
mix  into  it  with  a  wooden  spoon  six  ounces  of  fine  flour  that  has  been  rubbed 
through  a  tine  wire  sieve,  and  put  into  the  screen  to  get  warm.  Brush  over  a 
charlotte-mold  with  warm  butter,  paper  it,  butter  this  also,  and  dust  over  with 
flour  and  sugar  mixed  in  equal  proportions;  pour  the  cake  mixture  into  the 
mold,  and  l)ake  in  a  very  moderate  oven  for  one  and  one  qtiarter  hours;  theu  turn 
out  the  cake  onto  a  pastry-rack  or  sieve,  and  let  it  get  quite  cold;  cut  it  into 
slices,  and  mask  each  slice  with  orange  marmalade  that  has  been  rubbed 
through  a  sieve,  place  the  slices  togetlier  in  their  original  form,  and  glaze  over 
the  cake  Avith  maraschino  and  orange  glace.  When  the  glace  is  beginning  to 
set,  sprinkle  all  over  it  some  finely  shredded  pistachio-nuts,  and  dish  on  a  dish- 
paper.  Serve  for  a  dinner  sweet,  with*ce  or  a  macedoine  of  fruit,  or  it  can  be 
served  for  dessert  or  afternoon  tea.  The  mixture  may  also  be  baked  in  any 
small  fancy  molds. 

Gustave  Beiaud,  Chef  of  Calumet  Club,  Chicago,  Formerly  Chef  of  William  Astor, 

MAIDETTE'S  CAKE. 
4  eggs,  well  beaten,  1  capful  of  milk, 

2  cupfuls  of  sugar,  4  cupfuls  of  flour, 

1  cupful  of  butter,  2  tea  spoonfuls  of  baking-powder, 

Flavor  with  four  drops  of  almond  essence;  stir  well.    Bake  in  a  solid  loaf. 
Mrs.  Wm.  W.  Pittman,  Brooklyn,  New  York. 

PRINCESS  CAKE. 
The  whites  of  ten  eggs,  three  cupfuls  of  powdered  sugar,  one  cupful  of 
butter,  one  cupful  of  milk,  four  and  one  half  cupfuls  of  flour,  one  teaspoouful 
of  balfing-powder,  level  full,  one  teaspoouful  of  lemon  essence  or  some  sliced 
citron.  Bake  carefully  one  hour  in  a  moderate  oven.  This  is  nice  u^ed  as  a 
layer  cake. 

'•  Hazel  Kirk,"  Cozy  Nest. 


294  CAKES,   COOKIES   AND   FUITTEliS. 

lUCE  CAKE. 

"Work  cue  half  poaiul  of  j;ood  butter  iu  a  basin  until  of  c-reaniy  appoaranco, 
then  ouo  half  pound  mt  sugar,  four  drops  of  essonee  of  almonds  and  four  drops 
of  vanilla,  and  work  all  tojiethor  with  tho  hands  or  a  wooden  spoon  for  ten 
minytes;  then  work  in  six  -whole  eggs  (one  at  a  time),  live  ounces  of  tine  iloui- 
mixed  with  three  ounces  of  ground  rice,  working-  in  about  a  tablespoonful  of 
this  with  each  egg;  it  will  take  about  fifteen  minutes-  to  work  these  in  properly; 
brush  over  the  inside  of  two  pint  cake-molds  with  a  little  warm  butter,  aiid  line 
them  with  buttered  kitchen-paper,  till  them  with  the  cake  mixture,  and  put 
them  to  bake  for  about  an  hour  in  a  moderate  oven.  If  the  paper  is  kept  on 
these  cakes  when  turned  out  of  the  mold,  and  they  are  put  into  a  tin  box,  they 
Avill  keep  for  a  week  or  two.  The  same  mixture  can  be  baked  in  little  fancy- 
shaped  molds,  iu  which  case  the  buttered  paper  may  be  dispensed  witli,  but  the 
mold  should  be  dusted  over  with  a  little  flour  after  it  is  brusliod  with  Avarm 
butter. 

Gustave  Berami,  Cbef  of  Calumet  Club,  Chicago,  Formerly  Chef  of  William  Aster. 

CHEVALIER  CAKES. 

Choux  rt  la  C/ievalier. 
Prepare  some  choux  paste,  and  put  it  into  a  forcing-bag  with  a  plain  pipe; 
force  the  mixture  out  onto  a  baking-tin  in  the  form  of  horseshoes,  and  brusli 
these  over  with  whole  beaten-up  egg.    Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  thirty-tive  to 


forty  minutes,  remove  from  the  oven,  and  when  cool,  split  open  the  imderueath 
part  of  the  shoes,  and  till  up  the  inside  with  pastry  custard  or  stiffly  whipped 
cream  that  is  sweetened,  and  flavored  with  vanilla  essence;  mask  over  the  tips 
of  the  shoes  with  coffee  glace,  and  the  remaining  part  with  vanilla  glace;  gar- 
nish, as  in  the  engraving,  with  cho]iped  almonds  that  are  colored  Avitli  a  little 
carmine,  or  with  chopped  pistachio-nuts,  and  dish  up  ten  or  twelve  on  a  dish. 
Serve  for  a  dinner  or  luncheon  sweet  or  for  a  cold  collation. 

GINGEIIBEEAD. 

One  egg.  one  cupful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  molasses,  one  cupful  of  lard,  one 
ctipful  of  sour  milk,  foiu*  teaspoonfuls  of  soda,  t-\vo  tablespoonfuls  of  ginger, 
flour  enough  to  roll  soft.    To  be  eaten  when  warm.    This  recipe  will  make  three 
loaves;  baked  in  broad,  shallow  pans. 
Mrs.  R.  P.  Bullock,  Jackson,  Michigan. 


CAKKS,    (,'OOKIKK    AMI)    FKITTEKS. 


5^U5 


COFFKECAKIO. 


1    i'iXii, 

1  ciii)!'!!!  <<t'  lirowii  suixJir, 

1  fiiplul  or  uiolasscs, 

1  cupful  of  butter, 

1  cupful  of  stron;;  cold  coffee 

4  or  f)  cupfuls  of  Hour. 


1   pound  of  raisins, 

1  tiihlcspoonful  of  clovei^, 

1  tiiblcspoonful  of  cinunmon, 

1  j^rated  nutmeg, 

1  licapiuf^  tcaspoonfiii  of  s(jda, 


Mix  it  very  stiff',  and  lial<c  in  a  niodcratt^  oven  for  an  Lour. 
M.  C,  Troy,  PennHylvaiiia. 


Tin  IciNr;  Pii'es  and  Bao  foij  Oknamentai.  Icing.    (See  pn^f'  200.) 


DT'Tril  fJINGEKBKEAD. 

Two  cupfuls  of  flour,  one  lialf  cupful  of  butter,  two  ej^gs,  one  sllj^htly  round- 
ing teaspoonful  of  yellow  (African)  ginger,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  one  half  cupful 
of  milk,  one  rounding  teaspoonfid  of  baking-powder.  Sift,  and  mix  flour,  l)aking- 
powder  and  ginger;  cream  butter  and  sugar,  and  add  yolks  l)eateii  until  light; 
add  milk  and  flour  mixtiu'c  alternately,  and  lastly  tlie  wliitcs  lieateii  to  a  stiff 
froth.     P.ake  in  a  moderate  oven  forty-five  minutes. 

Miss  Anj^eline  M.  Weaver,  Instruetor  Hyde  School  Kitchen,  Boston,  Massachusetts. 


COFFEE-f'AKE. 

Three  eggs,  two  cupfuls  of  sutrar,  one  half  cupful  of  molasses,  one  cui)ful  of 
butter,  one  cupful  of  cold  strong  coffee,  foiu*  cupfuls  of  flour,  four  teaspoonfuls 
of  baking-powder,  one  tablespoonful  of  cinnamon,  one  tablespoonful  of  cloves, 
one  grated  nutmeg,  one  pound  of  raisins,  chopped  and  seeded,  one  pound  of 
dried  English  currants,  one  fourth  of  a  pound  of  finely  cut  citron.  This  makes 
a  very  large  cake  or  two  medium-sized  ones.  Bake  slowly  one  hour  or  more. 
Mrs.  T.  L.  Arthur,  Springfield,  Ohio. 


296  CAKES,    COOKIES   AND    FRITTEES. 

PLAIN  CAKE. 

V2  cupful  of  butter,  1  cupful  of  sugar, 

2  eggs,  %  cupful  of  milk, 

2  cupf  als  of  flour,  1  teaspoonf  ul  of  baking-powder, 

1  teaspoonful  of  vanilla. 

Bake  for  thirty  to  forty  minutes.    This  rule  admits  of  many  variations.    Add 

to  it  one  cupful,  mixed,  of  chopped  raisins  and  English  walnuts,  and  the  result 

is  delicious.     One  square  of  plain  chocolate  can  be  melted  and  stirred  in  half 

the  dough,  and  the  two  parts  baked  as  marble-cake.    Chopped  almonds  sprinkled 

thickly  over  the  top  before  baking  will  form  so  nice  a  top  that  you  will  prefer 

it  to  frosting  Avhen  once  tried,  and  still  another  variation  is  to  grate  a  little 

of  the  yellow  rind  of  an  orange  into  the  dough,  and  make  an  icing  of  the  juice. 

with  a  little  grated  rind,  thickened  with  confectioners'  sugar  until  stiff  enovigh 

to  spread. 

Mrs.  G.  L.  Green,  Formerly  Principal   Boston  Y.  M.  C.  A.  School  of  Cookery,  now 
Teacher  of  Cooking  In  the  High  School,  Concord,  New  Hampshire. 


SMALL  CAKES. 

CINNAMON  COOKIES. 

Cream  one  half  cupful  of  shortening,  slowly  add  one  half  cupful  of  sugar, 
yolk  or  white  of  one  egg,  one  half  cupful  of  molasses.  Sift  togetlier  two  cupfuls 
of  flour,  one  half  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon,  one  fourth  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one 
fourth  teaspoonful  of  cloves,  one  eighth  teaspoonful  of  allspice,  a  little  grated 
nutmeg  and  one  level  teaspoonful  of  soda;  add  these  materials  to  the  butter 
mixture;  add  one  teaspoonful  of  vinegar;  roll  out  a  little  at  a  time,  cut  out, 
grease,  and  bake  on  the  wrong  side  of  the  pan,  as  they  will  brown  more 
uniformly  than  when  baked  in  the  usual  way. 

Miss  Marion  L.  Campbell,  Friendly  Inn  Cooking  School,  Cleveland,  Ohio. 

COCOANUT  COOKIES. 

%  cupful  of  butter,  1  cupful  of  sugar, 

1  tablespoonful  of  milk,  2  eggs, 

1  cupful  of  grated  cocoanat,  1  teaspoonful  of  baking-powder. 

Lemon  to  flavor.  Flour  enough  to  roll  out. 

Roll  thin,  and  cut  out.    It  m.akes  thirty-two,  and  they  are  elegant. 

Mrs.  A.  E.  Kirtland,  Author  of  "  Mrs.  Kirtland's  Cook  Book,"  Montgomery,  Alabama. 

CLOVE  COOKIES. 

Mix  one  level  teaspoonful  of  saleratus,  one  level  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  half 
level  teaspoonful  of  ginger  and  two  level  teaspoonf uls  of  cloves;  mix  one  cupful 
of  molasses,  one  tablespoonful  of  vinegar,  one  fourth  of  a  cupful  of  cold  water 
and  one  half  cupful  of  melted  drippings;  add  the  dry  ingredients,  stir  in  flour  to 
make  a  soft  dough,  roll  one  fourth  of  an  inch  thick,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven. 

Miss  Angeline  M.  Weaver,  Instructor  Hyde  School  Kitchen,  Boston,  Massachusetts. 


CAKES,    COOKIES    AND    FRITTERS.  ti97 

COOKIES  WITHOUT  EGUS. 

1  cupful  of  sugar,  2  teaspooufuls  of  fr(>aui  of  tartar, 

Vj  cupful  of  butter,  1  toaspoouful  of  soda, 

1  cupful  of  water.  Flavor  with  nutmeg. 

Flour  enough  to  roll  out,  and  cut  into  any  shape  you  prefer. 
Bettie  Ferguson,  StoQkton,  Alabama. 

MOTHER  CKISTIE'S  COOKIES. 

3  eggs,  1  cupful  of  butter, 

2  cupfuls  of  sugar,  1  qxiart  of  flour, 
1M>  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder. 

T'se  more  flour  if  necessary  to  make  it  stiff;  roll  thin,  and  bake  in  a  pretty 
hot  oven. 

PHOEBE'S  POVERTY  CAKES. 

1  pint  of  sour  milk,  1  teaspoonful  of  soda, 

1  teaspoonful  of  salt. 

Flour  enough  to  roll;  cut  into  narrow  strips,  and  fry  in  hot  lard.  They  are 
nice  for  breakfast,  eaten  with  the  coffee. 

MAPLE-CAKES. 
1  egg,  1  teaspoonful  of  soda, 

1  teacupful  of  butter  and  lard,  mixed.     1  teaspoonful  of  salt, 

3  pints  of  flour. 

Rub  well  together, and  mix  with  buttermilk;  turn  out  on  your  kneading-board, 
and  work  them  until  quite  smooth;  roll  very  thin,  cut  like  crullers,  and  fry  in 
lard. 

Mrs.  Lashells. 

MOTHER'S  TEA-CAKES. 

1  egg,  Vi  cupful  of  water, 

1  cupful  of  sugar,  1  teaspoonful  of  soda, 

Vo  cupful  of  butter  or  beef  suet,         .        Flavor  with  a  little  cinnamon, 
Flour  enougli  to  roll. 

Cut  into  fancy  patterns,  and  cook  in  a  quick  oven. 
Mrs.  W.  B.  Reid,  Jackson,  Michigan. 

MARGARETHA  FRIED  CAKES. 

2  eggs,  1  pint  of  sour  milk, 
1  cupful  of  sugar,                                         %  cupful  of  lard, 

1  teaspoonful  of  soda. 

Spice  and  salt  to  suit  the  taste,  and  flour  to  roll;  fry  a  rich  brown  in  hot  lard. 

"  Hazel  Kirk." 

DROP-CAKES. 

4  eggs,  beaten  separately,  i/.  cupful  of  butter, 

1  cupful  of  sugar,  I  cupful  of  corn-starch, 

2  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder. 

Bake  in  small  tins;  place  a  large  raisin  in  the  top  of  each  one  after  they  are 
put  into  the  tins. 

Mrs.  M.  A.  Long,  Philadelphia,  Pennsylvania. 


298  CAKES,    COOKIES    AND    FRITTERS. 

SOFT  GINGERCAKES. 
1  pint  of  molasses,  1  cupful  of  butter, 

1  cupful  of  lard,  1  tablespoonful  of  saleratus, 

1  tablespoonful  of  ginger. 
Allow  flour  enough  to  roll  as  soft  as  possible,  and  balie  quickly,  but  not  witli 
a  very  hot  fire,  as  they  burn  easily. 
Mrs.  E.  C.  W.,  Mount  Vernon,  Ohio. 

BAKER'S  CREAM  CAKES. 

Boil  one  half  pint  of  water  and  one  cupful  of  butter  together,  and  pour  it 
into  one  and  one  half  cupfuls  of  flour;  when  nearly  cold,  pour  in  six  well-beateu 
eggs;  drop  this,  in  small  spoonfuls,  on  buttered  tins,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 
Open  them  at  the  sides,  and  put  in  the  following  custard: 

Vi  pint  of  milk,  1  teaspoonf  ul  of  corn-starch, 

1  teaspoonful  of  flour,  1  egg, 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar. 

Boil  tlie  milk,  and  add  the  beaten  q%^,  sugar,  flour  and  corn-starch;  let  it  cook 
until  it  thiclcens,  stirring  all  tlie  time;  Avhen  cold,  put  it  in  the  calces. 
Mrs.  E.  D.  J.,  Waupaca,  Wisconsin. 

MACAROONS. 

Take  the  whites  of  two  eggs,  one  coffee-cup  level  full  of  powdered  sugar,  one 
half  pound  of  sweet  almonds;  pour  boiling  water  over  the  almonds  to,  take  off 
the  brown  skin,  then  put  them  into  the  oven  to  dry;  when  cold,  pound  them  to 
a  paste;  beat  up  the  eggs  and  sugar  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  add  them  to  the  almond 
paste,  mi.King  them  thoroughly  wdth  the  back  of  a  spoon;  roll  the  preparation  in 
your  liands  into  little  balls  the  size  of  a  nutmeg,  and  place  them  on  a  piece  of 
white  paper  an  inch  apart.    Bake  them  in  a  cool  oven  until  a  light  brown. 

GINGERSNAPS. 

Talie  one  egg,  one  cupful  of  molasses,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of 
butter  and  lard  mixed,  one  half  cupful  of  boiling  water,  one  level  tablespoonful 
of  soda  dissolved  in  the  water,  one  tablespoonful  of  ginger,  and  flour  enough  to 
mold  out  rather  soft;  roll  out  thin,,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 
Mrs.  T.  L.  Arthur,  Springfield,  Ohio. 

MERINGUES. 

Whip  the  whites  of  four  eggs,  to  a  stiff  froth  witli  a  wooden  spoon,  stir  in 
quickly  half  a  pound  of  poAvdered  sugar.  Cut  strips  of  white  paper  about  two 
inches  wide,  place  on  a  thin  board,  drop  a  tablespoonful  of  the  mixture  at  a  time 
on  the  paper,  taking  care  to  haA^e  all  the  meringues  the  same  size,  strew  over 
some  sugar  and  finely  chopped  almonds,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  half  an 
hour.  As  soon  as  they  begin  to  color,  remove  from  the  oven,  take  each  slip  of 
paper  by  the  two  ends,  turn  gently  on  the  table,  and  with  a  spoon  take  out  the 
soft  part  of  each  meri.ngue;  spread  some  clean  paper  on  the  board,  turn  the 
meringues  npslde  doAvn,  and  put  them  into  the  OA^en  to  harden  and  brown  on  the 
other  side.  When  ready  to  use,  fill  Avith  Avhipped  cream  flavored  Avith  vanilla 
and  SAveetened.    Join  two  meringues  together,  and  pile  them  high  in  a  dish. 


CAKES,    COOKIES    AND    FKITTEKS.  2U9 

LADYFINGEKS. 

Two  eggs,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  one  half  cupful  of  butter  beaten  to  a  cream, 
four  tablespooufuls  of  sweet  uillk,  two  tablespooiifuls  of  baking-powder,  enough 
Hour  to  stir  stiff  with  a  spoon;  flavor  with  lemon  or  vanilla;  flour  your  molding- 
board,  take  a  little  piece  of  dougli,  roll  with  your  hands  as  large  as  your  fingers, 
cut  off  in  four-inch  lengths,  and  put  closely  on  buttered  ladyfiuger-tins.  Bake 
in  a  (]uick  oven. 

Mrs.  F.  C.  K.,  Douglas,  Michigan. 

CINNAMON-DROPS. 

One  egg,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  molasses,  one  half  cupful  of 
butter,  one  cupful  of  Avater,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  cinnamon,  one"  heaping  tea- 
spoonful  of  soda,  five  cupfuls  of  flour;  bake  in  small  cups  nearly  half  full. 
Grace  H.  Johnson,  North  Madison,  Connecticut. 

COCOANUT  PATTIES. 

Two  large  cupfuls  of  sugar  and  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  braided 
together;  beat  six  eggs  with  another  cupful  of  sugar,  mix  all  with  one  cupful  of 
milk;  stir  into  this  mixture  six  large  cupfuls  of  fresh  grated  cocoanut;  bake  in 
little  scalloped  patty-pans  lined  with  puff  paste. 

Miss  Harriott  T.  Ward,  Scientific  and  Special  Teacher  of  Cooking,  Boston. 

KISSES. 

Beat  the  whites  of  four  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth;  then  stir  in  one  and  one  half 
pounds  of  powdered  loaf-sugar;  flavor  wilh  vanilla  or  lemon  extract;  continue  to 
beat  until  it  will  lie  in  a  heap;  lay  the  mixture  on  letter-paper  in  the  size  and 
shape  of  half  an  egg  aud  about  an  inch  apart;  then  place  the  paper  on  a  piece 
of  hard  wood,  and  put  into  a  quick  oven  without  closing  the  door.  AVatch  them, 
and  when  they  tin-n  yelloAvish,  take  them  out,  and  let  them  cool  for  three  or  four 
minutes;  then  slip  a.  thin-bladed  knife  under  one  and  transfer  it  to  your  hand; 
then  take  off  another,  join  the  two  by  the  sides  that  lay  on  the  paper,  and  place 
the  kisses  thus  made  on  a  dish.  They  are  delicious. 
Miss  M.  A.  Dorin,  Oak  Ridge,  Indiana. 

SNOWBALLS. 

Cream  one  half  cupful  of  butter,  add  one  cupful  of  fine  granulated  sugar,  beat 
well;  mix  two  level  teaspoonfuls  of  baking-powder  with  two  cupfuls  of  flour,  add 
alternately  with  one  half  cupful  of  milk;  beat  the  whites  of  four  eggs  to  a  stiff 
froth,  add  lightly.  Fill  buttered  cups  half  full,  and  steam  half  an  hour;  roll  in 
powdered  sugar. 

Mr.s.  Altiiea  Somes,  Teacher  of  Cookery,  Manual  Training  School,  Boston. 

SrCARSNAPS. 

1  cupful  of  sugar,  1  cupful  of  butter, 

1  cupful  of  water,  1  teaspoonful  of  soda, 

1  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar. 

Flour  enough  to  mix  stiff,  and  roll  thin. 
"Stella,"  Jackson,  Michigan. 


800  CAKES,   COOKIES  AKD   ERITTER9. 

MUSTARD  WAFERS. 

%  cupful  of  butter,  1/4  cupful  of  sugar; 

1  egg,  1  cupful  of  milk, 

3  cupfuls  of  flour,  1  level  tea  spoonful  of  saleratitS, 

1  level  teaspoouful  of  mustard. 

Sift  and  mix  flour,  saleratus  and  mustard;  cream  butter  and  sugar,  add 
beaten  yolks,  then  milk  and  flour  mixture  alternately,  lastly  the  beaten  whites. 
Roll  thin,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven;  sprinkle  with  granulated  sugar  when  taken 
from  the  oven. 

Miss  Augeline  M.  Weaver,  Instructor  Hyde  School  Kitchen,  Boston. 

JUMBLES. 
Three  fourths  of  a  cupful  of  butter,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  milk,  one  and 
one  half  cupfuls  of  sugar,  three  eggs,  one  teaspoouful  of  baking-powder.     Roll, 
sprinkle  with  granulated  sugar,  mix  with  sufficient  flour  to  roll  thin;  cut  out 
vs^ith  a  hole  in  the  center,  and  bake. 

CRULLERS. 

Take  one  egg,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  sour  cream,  one  small  tea- 
spoonful  of  soda,  a  small  pinch  of  salt,  spice  to  suit  the  taste.  Mix  soft,  roll 
nearly  an  inch  thick,  cut  out  with  a  cake-cutter  that  has  a  hole  in  the  center; 
fry  in  hot  lard. 

WAFERS. 

One  fourth  pound  of  butter,  one  half  pound  of  pulverized  sugar  and  three 
level  tablespoonfuls  of  flour;  flavor  with  rose-water  and  spread  in  thin  cakes  on 
dripping-pans;  bake,  and  while  hot,  roll  them  up,  and  powder  with  white  sugar. 
They  are  very  pretty  with  mixed  cakes.  They  bake  quickly,  and  must  be  rolled 
quickly. 

RAISED  DOUGHNUTS. 

3  eggs,  1-3  of  a  cupful  of  butter, 

1  cupful  of  sugar,  3  pints  of  bread-sponge. 

Mix  witli  the  hand  as  soft  as  possible;  let  it  rise;  mold  again;  have  the 
bread-board  floured,  put  the  dough  on  it,  roll  out  half  an  inch  thick,  and  cut; 
out;  let  them  raise  half  an  hour;  fry  in  moderately  hot  lard. 

SAND-TARTS. 

2  eggs,  reserving  the  white  of  one,       1  cupful  of  butter  or  beef  drippings, 

2  cupfuls  of  sugar,  3  cupfuls  of  flour. 

Roll  out  thin;  spread  the  white  of  the  egg  on  top  of  each  cake  cut  out, 
sprinkle  with  sugar  and  cinnamon,  and  press  a  blanched  almond  or  raisin  in 
the  center  of  each.    Cook  in  a  quick  oven. 
Mrs.  P.  p.  Mast,  Springfield,  Ohio. 

FRITTERS. 

3  eggs,  1  teaspoouful  of  soda, 
2  tablespoonful  of  sugar,                       A  pinch  of  salt, 

1  pint  of  sour  millv.  Flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff  batter. 

Beat  thoroughly;  drop  a  large  spoonful  in  hot  lai'd;  fry  brown,  and  roll  in 
powdered  sugar  when  done. 
M.  C,  Troy,  Pennsylvania. 


Chapter  XVI. 


In  getting  vinegar  for  picliles,  always  try  to  get  cider  vinegar,  as  the  otlier 
kinds  frequently  eat  up  the  pielvles  entirely  or  cause  them  to  turn  soft.  Too 
strong  vinegar  should  be  partly  diluted  with  water. 

All  pickles  should  be  tightly  sealed,  to  prevent  air  reaching  the  vinegar,  as 
this  kills  it.  It  should  always  be  poured  on  hot  as  it  comes  to  the  first  scald- 
never  allow  it  to  boil. 

Never  put  up  pickles  in  anything  that  has  held  any  kind  of  grease,  and  never 
let  them  freeze. 

If  pickles  are  put  into  brine,  it  should  always  be  strong  enough  to  bear  an 
egg.    Use  coarse  salt,  in  proportion  of  a  heaping  pint  of  salt  to  a  gallon  of  water. 

The  nicest  way  to  put  up  pickles  is  to  put  them  into  bottles,  and  seal  while 
they  are  hot. 

Always  select  perfect  fruit  for  catsups.    Cook  in  porcelain,  never  in  metal. 

Always  use  glass  or  stone  ware  to  bottle  in,  never  tin. 

If  on  opening  there  is  a  leathery  mold  on  top,  carefully  remove  every  particle 
of  it.  and  the  catsup  will  not  be  injured. 

301 


302  PICKLES   AND   CATSUPS. 

To  prevent  this  moldiug,  some  do  not  fill  the  bottles  quite  to  the  top  with 
catsup,  but  fill  up  with  hot  vinegar. 

If  on  opening  and  using  a  part  there  is  danger  that  the  rest  may  sour,  scald; 
and  if  too  thick,  add  vinegar. 

Always  stir  In  the  vinegar  the  last  thing  before  putting  on  to  boil. 

TO  CLARIFY  PICKLES. 

The  scum  which  often  rises  on  the  top  of  pickles  can  be  remedied  by  putting 
a  slice  or  two  of  horse-radish  in  the  jar,  which  soon  sinks  to  the  bottom,  taking 
all  the  scum  with  it,  thus  leaving  the  vinegar  clear. 

TO  KEEP  PICKLES  FROM  GETTING  SOFT. 

To  one  barrel  of  pickles,  Avhen  in  brine,  add  one  half  bushel  of  grape-leaves. 
This  will  keep  them  sound  and  firm. 

BOTTLED  PICKLES. 

Pour  boiling  water  over  them,  and  let  stand  four  hours;  to  every  gallon  of 
vinegar  take 

1  teacupful  of  sugar,  1  teaspoonf ul  of  pulverized  alum, 

1  teacupful  of  salt,  1  ounce  of  cinnamon-bark, 

1^  ounce  of  whole  cloves. 

Boil  spice  and  vinegar,  and  pour  over  the  pickles.    Seal  while  hot. 
Mrs.  W.  B.  Reid,  Jackson,  Michigan. 

CHOPPED  PICKLES. 

Chop  fine 
1  gallon  of  cabbage,  1  quart  of  onions, 

1  gallon  of  green  tomatoes,  2  or  3  green  pepper-pods. 

Sprinkle  salt  over  the  tomatoes,  and  let  them  stand  awhile;  then  drain  off 
the  water,  put  with  the  other  ingredients,  and  to  this  add  four  tablespoonfuls 
of  ground  mustard,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  ginger,  one  tablespoonful  of 
powdered  cloves,  one  tablespoonful  of  powdered  mace,  one  tablespoonful  of 
powdered  cinnamon,  three  pounds  of  sugar,  three  ounces  of  turmeric-powder 
and  one  ounce  of  celery-seed;  mix  well,  cover  with  good  vinegar,  and  boil  slowly 
until  done. 

Mrs.  D.  D.  H.,  Marion,  Virginia. 

CUCUMBER  PICKLES. 

One  hundred  green  cucuiiibers  about  two  inches  long  will  fill  four  glass 
quart  jars.  Soak  twenty-four  hours  in  rather  strong  brine;  then  poui-  off  the 
brine,  and  rinse  in  clear  water.  To  this  number  of  cucumbers  use  three  quarts 
of  pure  cider  vinegar,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  one  ounce  of  whole  cloves,  one  ounce 
of  stick-cinnamon,  one  ounce  of  small  black  peppers,  a  little  sliced  horse-radish, 
a  few  small  red  peppers;  scald  the  cucumbers  in  the  vinegar.  As  soon  as  the 
vinegar  is  scalding  hot,  dip  them  out,  fill  the  jars,  and  then  pour  the  vinegar 
over  them  until  the  jar  is  full.    Seal  while  hot. 

Clara  C,  Springfield,  Ohio.  ' 


PICKLES   ANL>   CATSUPS.  303 

KIPE  CUCUMBER  SWEET  PICKLES. 

Pare  twelve  large  cucumbers,  and  take  out  the  pulp;  cut  them  into  strips 
about  two  inches  wide  and  three  or  four  iuclies  long;  let  them  stand  a  few 
minutes;  take 

2  pounds  of  sugar,  1  ounce  of  cinnamon, 
1  pint  of  vinegar,                                          y->  ounce  of  cloves. 

Boil  together,   and  skim;   then  put   in   the  cucumbers;   let  them   cook   until 
tender;  tlien  take  them  out,  and  let  tJie  liquor  cook  fifteen  minutes;  pour  this 
over  tlie  cucumbers,  and  cover  tightly. 
Libbie  Kent,  Geuoa,  Ohio. 

GIIEEX-TOMATO  PICKLE. 

Chop  a  peck  of  green  tomatoes,  and  stir  in  half  a  teacupful  of  salt;  drain 
over  night;  add 

3  green  chopped  peppers,  2  quarts  of  vinegai-, 
1  teacu])ful  of  grated  horse-radish,  1  teacupful  of  sugar. 

Let  it  boil,  gently  .'^tirring  occasionally,  until  the  tomato  is  tender,  then  add 
a  great  spoonful  eacli  of  cinnamon  and  cloves. 

SWEET  MANGO  PICKLES. 

Select  young  muskmelons  or  c.-nitaloups  (the  former  preferi'ed)  when  they 
are  large  enough  to  make  a  nice  pickle,  cut  a  slit  in  the  side,  put  into  strong 
brine  for  one  week,  then  they  will  be  soft  enough  to  remove  the  seed;  wash  them 
Avell,  soak  in  weak  alum- water  for  twenty-foirr  liours,  lay  them  in  the  sun  for 
a  few  hours  to  dry;  then  scald  in  weak  vinegar  with  a  little  alum  in  it;  when 
nicely  greened,  dry  again.  jNIake  a  stuffing  thus:  One  pound  each  of  white  and 
black  mustard-seed,  one  teacupful  of  celery-seed,  one  half  teacupful  each  of* 
cloves,  allspice  and  mace,  one  tablespoonful  of  turmeric.  Slice  some  cucumber 
pickle,  add  to  the  spices  or  cabbage  piclvle  .some  sliced  onions  cut  very  small — 
I  tliink  an  improvement— three  pounds  of  brown  sugar;  stuff  each  mango,  tie 
securely,*and  place  in  a  large  stone  jar,  slit  side  up,  Avith  a  few  slices  of  lemon 
between.  Prepare  a  second  vinegar,  sweeten  to  taste,  pour  hot  over  the 
mangos,  tie  up  tightly  for  a  week  or  tAvo  before  using;  tlie  longer  the  better. 
They  are  delicious. 

Mrs.  A.  E.  Kirtland,  Author  of  "Mrs.  Kirtland's  Cook  Book,"  Montgomery,  Alabama. 

CANTALOUP  SWEET  PICKLE. 

Take  seven  pounds  of  melons  not  quite  ripe,  lay  them  in  a  weak  brine  over 
niglit;  then  boil  them  in  weak  alum-water  until  transparent;  lift  them  out,  and 
put  them  into  a  jar. 

1  quart  of  cider  vinegar,  1  ounce  of  cloves, 

2  ounces  of  sticli  cinnamon,  3  pounds  of  granulated  sugar. 

Let  this  boil,  and  add  the  fruit,  cooking  it  twenty  ininutes  longer;  pour  it 
into  a  jar,  and  cover  closely;  scald  it  over  for  two  mornings;  then  seal  tightly. 
Mrs.  J.  A.  H.,  Paris,  Kentucky. 


304  PICKLES    AND    CATSUPS. 

PICKLED  PEPPERS. 

Select  large  green  peppers  (those  called  sweet  peppers  are  ^he  best),  cut  a 
small  slit  ou  one  side  so  as  not  to  cut  off  any  part;  take  out  all  the  seeds  care- 
fully; soak  the  peppers  in  salt-water  for  six  days,  changing  tlie  brine  several 
times.  Chop  onions,  red  cabbage,  tomatoes,  small  cucumbers,  green  grapes, 
beans,  okra,  a  few  slices  of  carrots,  some  green  corn  cut  from  the  cob,  some 
horse-radish,  whole  mustard-seed,  celery-seed  and  a  little  curry-powder.  Reg- 
ulate the  quantity  of  each  ingredient  by  your  own  taste.  Prepare  as  much  of 
tlie  stuthng  as  will  fill  to  the  natural  size  all  the  peppers  you  desire  to  pickle. 
Before  filling  the  peppers,  sprinkle  all  over  the  inside  of  them  a  little  ground 
cinnamon,  cloves  and  allspice;  then  fill  in  the  stuffing,  all  well  mixed:  sew  up 
ihe  slit  neatly,  place  in  a  stone  j.ar,  cover  Avith  cold  spiced  vinegar,  cover  the  jar 
closelj%  and  set  aside. 

Mrs,  F.  Anthony,  Providence,  Rhode  Island. 

ONION  PICKLE. 

Peel  very  small  onions  (button  onions  are  the  best),  pour  over  boiling  brine, 
let  stand  one  week;  take  from  the  brine,  and  sun  one  day  on  a  cloth.  To  each 
gallon  of  onions  add  one  ounce  of  turuieric,  two  pounds  of  brown  sugar,  twenty- 
five  cloves  and  a  small  quantity  each  of  allspice,  cinnamon,  mace  and  ginger; 
season  the  vinegar,  cool,  and  pour  over  the  onions.  Fit  to  use  as  soon  as  the 
vinegar  strikes  through. 

Mrs.  A.  E.  Kirtland,  Author  of  "Mrs.  Kirtland's  Cook  Book,"  Montgomery,  Alabama. 

SWEET-PICKLED  PEACHES. 

The  clingstone  peaches  are  best  for  pickling,  though  many  use  the  free- 
stone as  well.  Some  peel  them,  while  others  rub  tJie  down  off  with  a  coarse 
towel,  and  leave  the  skin  on. 

5  pounds  of  fruit,  1  quart  of  vinegar, 

4  pounds  of  sugar,  2  ounces  of  stick-cinnamon, 

2  ounces  of  cloves. 

Boil  the  sugar  and  -s  inegar  with  the  cinnamon  for  five  minutes,  then  put  in 
the  peaches,  a  few  at  a  time,  with  one  or  two  cloves  in  each  peach;  ^vlien  they 
are  done  enough  to  prick  easily  with  a  fork,  take  them  out  of  the  jar.  and  put 
in  others  to  cook  until  they  have  all  been  cooked;  boil  the  syrup  down  to  one 
half  the  original  quantity,  and  pour  it  over  the  peaches.  Seal  while  hot.  Plums 
maj'  be  pickled  in  the  same  way. 

PICKLED  LEMONS. 

6  lemons,  2  quarts  of  cider  vinegar, 
%  pound  of  fine  salt,  Vl  ounce  of  ground  cloves. 

1/4  ounce  of  grated  nutmeg,  2  ounces  of  black  mustard-seed. 

Cut  the  lemons  three  fourths  of  an  inch  down  into  two  cross-cuts  at  the  stem- 
end,  put  them  into  a  covered  jar  with  the  vineg;ir,  spices  and  salt,  set  the  jar 
in  a  kettle  of  water,  and  boil  until  they  are  tender  enough  to  pass  a  knitting- 
needle  through  them.  The  vinegar  in  Avhich  they  are  cooked  is  very  nice  for  fish 
and  veal. 

Miss  Harriott  T.  Ward,  Scientific  and  Special  Teacher  Of  Cooking,  Boston. 


PICKLES   AND   CATSUPS.  305 

PICKLED  ARTICHOKES. 

In  pieklliiff  artichokes,  if  you  wisU  to  have  them  hard,  gather  tliem  as  soon 
as  they  are  dug;  cover  them  with  vinegar;  add  red  pepper  to  suit  the  taste.  To 
make  thorn  soft  after  gathering,  let  them  freeze  before  putting  them  into  the 
vinegar. 

Mrs.  C.  V.  Smith,  Conyors,  Georgia.      i 

TIPTOr  PICKLE. 

Take  one  peck  of  green  tomatoes  and  one  dozen  large  onions,  slice  both  on 
a  slaw-cutter;  liave  them  in  separate  vessels,  sprinkle  salt  between  the  tomatoes, 
and  let  lliem  stand  two  hours;  pom-  scalding  Abater  over  the  onions,  and  let 
stand  until  wanted;  then  squeeze  both  out.  and  arrange  them  in  a  crock  in 
alternate  layers,  sprinkle  between  them  celery-seed,  white  and  black  mustard- 
seed;  ]iour  over  this  one  quart  of  vinegar  and  one  pint  of  sugar  brought  to  a 
boil.  Heady  for  use  when  cold. 
Bettiiia  Hollis. 

PICCALILLI. 

2  dozen  large  cliopped  cucumbers,  1  peck  of  chopped  green  tomatoes, 

2  quarts  of  whole  small  onions,  1  dozen  cliopped  green  peppers, 
1  head  of  chopped  caljl)age. 

S-prinkle  one  pint  of  salt  over  this,  and  let  it  stand  over  night;  then  squeeze 
out  very  dry.  Put  into  a  kettle  one  gallon  of  vinegar,  one  pint  of  brown  sugar, 
one  fourth  of  a  pound  box  of  mustard,  one  half  dunce  of  turmeric  powder,  one 
lialf  ounce  of  cinnamon,  one  tablespoonful  each  of  allspice,  mace,  celery-seed 
and  a  little  liorse-radish.  Cook  the  mess  slowly  two  hours,  then  add  two  hun- 
dred small  pickles  just  as  it  is  to  come  off  the  stove.  Add  the  mustard  last,  as 
this  tliickens  it,  and  it  is  apt  to  burn. 
Mrs.  Jas.  Leffel,  Springfleld,  Ohio. 

CHOW-CHOW. 

• 

14  peck  of  small  string-beans,  1  head  of  cauliflower, 

V4  peck  of  tomatoes,  14  pound  of  white  mustai"d-seed, 

1  dozen  green  peppers,  i/i  poimd  of  black  mustanlseed. 

1  quart  of  small  white  onions,  ^2  pound  of  Englisli  ground  mustard, 

3  dozen  ears  of  sugar-corn.  1  tablespoonful  of  celery-seed, 

2  dozen  very  small  cucumbers,  2  teaspoonfuls  of  turmeric-powder, 
2  tablespoonfuls  of  salad-oil. 

Salt  the  beans,  tomatoes,  pejipers  and  onions,  and  let  them  stand  under 
pressux'e  for  twelve  hours.  Make  a  pickle  for  cucumbers  and  cauliflower,  and 
l)our  over  for  the  same  time.  When  ready  to  mix,  remove  the  corn  from  the 
cob;  mix  everything  well  in  a  large  kettle,  excepting  the  oil  and  turmeric- 
powder,  cover  the  wholcwith  strong  cider,  and  boil  it  one  bom*.  As  soon  as  it 
is  lifted  from  the  stove  add  the  tui'meric,  mixing  it  thoroughly,  and  add  the  oil 
Inst  of  all.  mixing  that  well  with  the  other  ingredients.  Do  not  make  it  until 
the  last  of  September  or  the  first  of  October. 
Carrie  K.  Inglis,  Philadelphia,  Pennsj-lvania. 


306  PICKLES   AND    CATSUPS. 

TOMATO  CATSUP. 

This  we  make  in  winter.  We  can  the  juico  left  from  canning  tomatoes  in 
summer.  In  the  winter  we  take  one  can  of  juice  or  one  can  of  tomatoes,  boil 
and  strain;  add 

.  %  cupful  of  sugar,  i/4  teaspoonful  of  salt, 

1  cupful  of  vinegar,  y^  teaspoonful  of  cayenne  pepper, 

1  tablespoonful  each  of  cloves,  cinnamon  and  nutmeg. 
Boil  one  hour,  and  put  into  a  bottle  for  use. 

GREEN-TOMATO    CATSUP. 

Chop  one  gallon  of  green  tomatoes,  one  half  gallon  of  cabbage  and  one  pint 
of  onions,  with  six  pods  of  red  pepper;  sprinkle  with  salt,  and  let  stand  over 
night;  drain,  and  add  two  tablespoonfuls  each  of  mustard,  ginger  and  blacli 
pepper,  witli  one  tablespoonful  each  of  cinnamon,  cloves,  allspice,  horse-radish 
and  mace  and  one  cupful  of  brown  sugar;  pour  over  the  catsup;  put  into  a 
preserve-kettle,  and  boil  four  hours,  when  it  becomes  thick  and  smooth. 

CUCUMBER  CATSUP. 

Pare  large,  ripe  cucumbers,  and  talve  out  the  seeds;  grate  fine,  and  to  one 
dozen  cucumbers  add  ten  small  onions,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  grated  horse- 
radish, one  lialf  teaspoonful  of  ca3^eniie  pepper,  one  teaspoonl'ul  of  Avhite  sugar, 
a  little  salt  and  blaclv  pepper;  cover  with  cold  vinegar,  and  seal. 

SLICED-CUCUMBER  CATSUP. 

Take  three  dozen  large,  ripe  cucumbers,  two  ^ozen  white  onions,  one  table- 
spoonful  of  pepper,  one  of  salt  and  three  red  peppers;  cut  fine,  and  let  drain 
over  night;  then  spice,  put  into  glass  jars,  and  cover  with  boiling  vinegar. 

CHOPPED-CUCUMBER  CATSUP.  ^ 

Peel  and  chop  three  dozen  cucumbers  and  one  dozen  onions  together; 
sprinkle  with  salt,  put  into  a  sieve,  and  let  drain  over  night,  add 

1  teacupful  of  mustard-seed,  •    14  ounce  of  whole  cloves, 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  black  pepper,  y^  ounce  of  allspice. 
Mix  well,  and  cover  Avith  cider  vinegar. 

CABBAGE  CATSUP. 

Chop  one  gallon  of  winter  cabbage,  one  quart  of  onions  and  six  pods  of  green 
pepper  together.  Boil  one  half  gallon  of  vinegar,  one  ounce  of  mustard,  ginger 
and  allspice,  one  tablespoonful  each  of  cinnamon,  cloves,  mace  and  horse- 
radish and  one  pound  of  brown  sugar;  pour  over  the  cabbage. 

RED-PEPPER  CATSUP. 

Take  four  dozen  red  peppers;  put  over  the  fire  in  a  quart  of  vinegar  and 
water  eacli,  Avitli  two  roots  of  grated  horse-radisli  and  six  sliced  onions;  season 
with  salt,  pepper,  mustard-seed  and  spice;  boil  ten  minutes,  and  strain;  then 
add  one  teacupful  of  broAvn  sugar,  two  ounces  of  celery-seed  and  one  of  mace, 
Avith  a  pint  of  strong  vinegar;  boil  one  hour,  and  bottle. 


PICKLES    AND   CATSUPS.  307 

WOKCESTEKSIII KE  CATSUP. 

One  quart  of  vinejiar,  one  half  ounce  of  cayenne  pepper,  four  heads  of 
bruised  uarlie,  one  half  dozen  mashed  anchovies,  ten  whole  cloves  and  one  blade 
of  mace;  cover,  and  stand  aside  for  eighteen  hours;  strain  through  a  sieve,  add 
one  gill  of  walnut  catsup  and  one  tablespoonful  of  made  mustard;  put  into  a 
stone  jug,  and  stand  aside  for  two  weeks;  bottle  and  seal.  This  catsup  is  an 
excellent  substitute  for  Worcestershire  sauce. 

MIXED  CATSUr. 

4  dozen  sliced  cucumbers,  2  dozen  onions, 

4  green  peppers,  4  dozen  large  green  tomatoes. 

Sprinkle  with  one  pint  of  salt,  and  let  stand  over  night,  then  drain;  put  the 
whole  into  a  preserve-kettle,  and  add  sliced  horse-radish,  one  ounce  of  mace, 
one  ounce  of  white  pepper,  one  ounce  of  turmeric,  one  ounce  of  white  mustard- 
seed,  one  ounce  of  cloves,  one  ounce  of  celery-seed  and  one  and  one  half  pounds 
of  brown  sugar  in  one  gallon  of  vinegar;  boil  one  hour. 

CURRANT  CATSUP. 

To  three  quarts  of  currant- juice  add 

3  pounds  of  sugar,  1  tablespoonful  of  cloves, 

1  pint  of  vinegar,  1  tablespoonful  of  pepper, 

I  tablespoonful  of  cinnamon,  1  tablespoonful  of  nutme?. 

Boil  together  twenty  minutes,  then  seal,  and  cork  tightly. 
Mrs.  G.  C,  Winterset,  Iowa. 

GRAPE  CATSUP. 

Stew  five  pounds  of  grapes  over  a  slow  fire  until  soft;  then  strain  through 
a  sieve;  add 

2Vi>  pounds  of  sugar,  1  tablespoonful  of  cloves, 

1  tablespoonful  of  cinnamon,  1  tablespoonful  of  pepper, 

1  tablespoonful  of  allspice,  Mi  tablespoonful  of  salt, 

1  pint  of  vinegar. 
Boil  until  a  little  thick,  and  then  bottle.    This  makes  an  excellent  sauce  for 
cold  meats. 

Mrs.  L.  C,  Fair  Haven,  New  Jersey. 

SPANISH  CATSUP. 

Half  a  gallon  of  green  cucumbers.  After  being  peeled  and  cut  up,  sprinkle 
with  salt,  and  let  stand  six  hours;  press  the  water  from  them,  and  scald  in  vin- 
egar. Prepare  half  a  gallon  of  cabbage  in  the  same  waj'.  Chop  one  dozen 
onions,  and  let  stand  in  boiling  Avater  half  an  hour;  also  chop  one  quart  of  green 
tomatoes  and  one  pint  of  green  beans  Avith  one  dozen  small,  young  ears  of  corn; 
scald  and  drain,  then  mix  two  tablespoonfuls  of  grated  horse-radisli,  one  tea- 
cupful  of  ground  mustard,  two  cupfuls  of  white  mustard-seed,  three  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  turmeric,  one  tablespoonful  of  mace,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  celery-seed, 
one  tablespoonful  of  cinnamon,  one  tablespoonful  of  cayenne  pepper,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  olive-oil  and  one  pound  of  sugar;  put  into  a  jar  with  the  prepared 
articles  for  catsup,  and  cover  with  boiling  vinegar. 


308  PtCKLES   AND   CATSUPS. 

MUSHROOM  CATSUP. 
Take  freshly  gathered  mushrooms,  wipe,  but  do  not  wash  them;  put  A 
layer  of  mushrooms  in  the  bottom  of  an  earthen  dish,  sprinkle  with  salt,  tlien 
put  another  layer  of  mushrooms  and  salt  alternately;  cover  with  a  damp,  folded 
cloth,  and  stand  in  a  warm  place  for  thirty-six  hours;  then  mash,  and  strain 
through  a  coarse  bag.  To  every  quart  of  jtuice  add  one  ounce  of  peppercorns; 
put  into  a  kettle,  and  boil  one  half  hour,  then  add  one  ounce  of  whole  allspice, 
one  half  ounce  of  ginger-root,  two  dozen  Avhole  cloves  and  a  blade  of  mace; 
let  simmer  gently  fifteen  minutes  longer,  then  take  from  the  fire,  and  stand  in 
a  cool  place;  when  cold,  strain  through  a  flannel  bag,  put  into  glass  bottles,  and 

COLD  CATSUP. 
One  half  peclc  of  finely  cut  ripe  tomatoes,  one  teacupful  of  finelj^  cut  onions, 
one  teacupful  of  finely  cut  nasturtium-seeds,  one  teacupful  of  grated  horse- 
radish, two  finely  chopped  red  peppers,  three  finely  chopped  large  stallvs  of 
celery,  one  teacupful  of  Avhole  mustard-seed,  one  h.alf  teacupful  of  salt,  one 
large  tablespoonful  each  of  black  pepper,  cloves,  mace  and  cinnamon,  one  half 
cupful  of  sugar,  one  quart  of  vinegar.    This  needs  no  cooking. 

L.  K.  E.,  Lebanon,  Ohio. 

MUSTARD. 

Take  one  half  cupful  of  mustard  flour;  stir  in  enough  Avater  to  make  a 
smooth  paste,  add  one  half  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar. 
For  another  variety  stir  into  this  one  lialf  cupful  of  currant  jelly. 

TOMATO  MUSTARD. 

One  peck  of  tomatoes  and  one  teaspoonful  of  salt;  boil  in  a  preserve-kettle 
one  half  hour;  strain  it  through  a  colander,  and  return  it  to  the  kettle  with  the 
following:  One  dessert-spoonful  of  ground  cloves,  one  dessert-spoonful  of  all- 
spice, one  dessert-spoonful  of  black  pepper,  one  dessert-spoonful  of  ginger,  one 
dessert-spoonful  of  cayenne  pepper,  some  onions  and  a  little  curry-powder.  Let 
it  boil  down  considerably;  then  strain  it  through  a  sieve,  and  add  flour  of  mus- 
tard until  the  proper  thickness  is  obtained,  and  simmer  for  a  short  time.  Bottle 

for  use. 

AROMATIC  MUSTARD. 

6  tablespoonfuls  of  ground  mustard,  1  teaspoonful  of  salt, 

1  tablespoonful  of  flour,  1  teaspoonful  of  pepper, 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  1  teaspoonful  of  cloves, 
1  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon. 

Mix  with  vinegar  in  Avhich  one  onion  has  been  boiled.    Let  stand  before  using. 

FRENCH  MUSTARD. 
Slice  an  onion  in  a  bowl;  cover  with  good  vinegar,  and  leave  two  or  three 
days;  pour  off  the  vinegar  into  a  basin,  and  put  into  it 

1  teaspoonful  of  pepper,  1  tablespoonful  of  brown  sugar,  and 

1  teaspoonful  of  salt,  Mustard  enough  to  thicken. 

Smooth  the  mustard  with  a  little  of  the  vinegar  as  you  would  flour  for  gravy; 
mix  it,  set  on  the  stove,  and  stir  until  it  boils,  when  remove,  and  use  it  cold. 
Ella  Edgerton,  Turin,  New  York. 


McKLEs  AND  Catsups.  309 

MAITKE  DHOTEL  BUTTER. 

One  fotirtb  of  a  pound  of  butter,  two  small  tablespooufuls  of  niiuced  parsley, 
Oue  tablespoonful  of  leniou-juice  aud  pepper  to  taste;  mix  well,  but  do  uot  stir. 
Pack  iu  small  jars,  cover  closely,  and  set  away  for  use. 

SPICED   CUCUMBERS. 

Two  dozen  cucumbers  pared  aud  sliced  as  for  the  table,  put  them  into  a  stone 
jar  iu  layers,  spriulcle  each  layer  with  fine  salt,  let  them  stand  in  a  cool  place 
twenty-four  hours;  drain  well  througli  a  sieve,  add  two  large  onions  sliced  very 
thin  and  cut  up  very  tine.  Put  the  cucumbers  into  glass  preserve-jars  in  alter- 
nate layers  of  cucumbers  and  onions;  sprinlcle  each  layer  witli  celery-seed, 
cflyenne  dud  black  pepper,  and  to  each  jar  add  tAAt*  or  three  small  red  pepper- 
pods;  pour  over  all  oue  large  bottle  best  lucca-oil  and  one  pint  of  cider  vinegar. 
Screw  the  cover  on  tightly,  so  as  to  exclude  all  air.  In  three  days  they  will  be 
ready  for  use. 

Miss  Harriott  T.  Ward,  Scientific  and  Special  Teacher  of  Cooking,  Boston,  Mass. 

SPICED  SALT. 

14  ounce  of  thyme,  Ys  ounce  of  marjoram, 

1/4  ounce  of  bay-leaf,  %  ounce  of  cayenne  pepper, 

Yi  ounce  of  pepper,  y^  ounce  of  cloves, 
%  ounce  of  grated  nutmeg. 

Dry,  poAvder  aud  sift  tliese,  thoroughly  mixed.  To  every  four  ounces  of  tliis 
mixture  add  one  ounce  of  salt.     Keep  in  an  air-tight  box  or  can.     This  is  an 

excellent  seasoning  for  soups,  dressings,  veal  loaf,  etc.     One  ounce  to  three 
pouuds  of  dressing  is  sufficient. 

Mrs.  E.  D.  Buss,  Springfield,  Ohio. 

SPICED  CHERRIES. 

9  pounds  of  fruit,  1  pint  of  cider  vinegar, 

4  pounds  of  sugar,  14  ounce  of  cinnamon-bark, 

I/O  ounce  of  whole  cloves. 
Let  the  syrup  come  to  a  boil  before  putting  in  the  fruit;  cook  the  fruit  until 
the  skins  break;  then  take  out  the  fruit,  and  boil  the  syrup  down  until  thick; 
pour  over  the  fruit  hot. 

Mrs.  Geo.  H.  Knight,  Mexico,  New  York. 

SPICED  VINEGAR  FOR  PICKLES. 

1  gallon  of  vinegar,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  mustard-seed, 

1  pound  of  sugar,  2  tal)lespoonfuls  of  celery-seed, 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  allspice,  1  tai)lespoonful  of  turmerlc-poAvder, 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  salt,  1  tablespoonful  of  black  pepper, 
1  tablespoonful  of  mace,  2  grated  nutmegs, 

3  onions,  1  handful  of  grated  horse-radish. 
Mrs.  L.  F.  LeClercq,  Springfield,  Ohio. 


310  PICKLES   AND   CATSUPS. 

SPICED  TOMATOES. 

Take  red  and  yellow  pear-shaped  tomatoes,  prick  two  or  three  times  with  a 
fork,  sprinkle  witli  salt,  let  stand  over  night,  paclv  in  a  glass  jar,  and  cover  over 
with  vinegar  prepared  as  follows  for  a  half-gallon  jar: 

1  pint  of  vinegar,  1  teaspoouful  of  allspice, 

1  teaspoonful  of  cloves,  1  teaspoouful  of  pepper, 

1  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon,  1  tablespoonful  of  sugar. 

The  spices  should  be  ground.     Let  this  come  to  a  boil,  and  pour  it  over  the 
tomatoes;  after  they  get  cold,  tie  strong  paper  over  them. 
Mrs.  J.  H.  Calder,  Biiggs,  Otiio. 

TARRAGON  VINEGAR. 

Put  into  a  wide-mouthed  bottle  one  cupful  of  freshly  grated  tarragon-leaves, 
cover  with  one  quart  of  good  cider  vinegar,  cork  the  bottle,  and  stand  aside  for 
a  week;  strain  through  a  bag,  pour  into  small  bottles,  cork,  and  keep  in  a  cool 
place. 

CELERY  VINEGAR. 

Pound  one  gill  of  celery-seed;  put  into  a  bottle,  and  fill  with  strong  vinegar. 
NASTURTIUM  VINEGAR. 

Gather  nasturtium  flowers  which  are  fully  blown,  put  them  into  large  glass 
bottles,  and  shake  them  well  together;  fill  the  bottle  witli  cold  vinegar,  and  put 
a  finely  minced  shallot  and  one  third  of  a  clove  of  garlic  Avith  each  quart.  Let 
the  vinegar  remain  for  two  months.  At  the  end  of  that  time  strain  it  through 
a  tamis,  and  add  one  half  ounce  of  cayenne  and  one  half  ounce  of  salt.  Put 
the  vinegar  into  small  bottles,  and  cork  securely, 


Pre3cn^   \ 


Chapter  XVII, 

Foi'  jelly,  select  your  fruit  before  it  is  too  ripe,  if  possible,  as  it  is  always  of  a 
much  better  flavor. 

It  should  be  put  ou  and  brought  to  a  heat,  as  the  juice  cau  be  much  better 
extracted. 

Have  a  bag  made  of  flannel,  in  a  funnel  shape,  to  put  the  juice  through.  For 
straining  it  through  the  first  time  use  a  wire  sieve,  with  a  revolving  wire  to 
crusli  the  fruit. 

Jelly  should  always  be  strained  twice,  and  comes  much  clearer  by  allowing 
it  to  hang  over  night  and  drip.  Put  on  the  juice  and  allow  it  to  come  to  a  heat, 
then  put  in  the  sugar,  which  should  be  put  into  the  oven  and  heated.  Jelly 
should  always  boil  rapidly,  and  in  a  pan  with  a  very  large  bottom,  so  that  as 
much  surface  can  be  on  the  stove  as  possible.  If  it  is  desired  to  keep  the  color 
light,  use  a  very  little  gelatin,  so  that  it  need  not  coolc  so  long.  From  fifteen 
to  twenty  minutes  is  long  enough  for  it  to  cook  after  it  begins  to  boil,  and  it 
should  not  stop  until  done.  Better  success  can  be  had  by  making  it  in  small 
quantities.  After  putting  it  into  the  glasses,  set  them  in  a  hot  sun  until  cold, 
then  cover  with  a  piece  of  writing-))aper  directly  on  the  jelly,  anotlier  to  cover 
the  top  of  the  glass.  This  can  be  confined  with  a  tiny  rubber  band,  which  is 
better,  as  you  can  easily  lift  your  covers  and  inspect  your  jellies.    Some  seasons 

311 


312  PRESERVES    AND    JELLIES. 

-more  mold  Avill  accumulate  u])OU  things  than  others,  and  if  once  removed,  will 
not  return. 

To  prevent  preserves  from  sugaring,  add  a  little  tartaric  acid  when  cooked. 

If  corn-starch  be  put  into  the  juice  before  adding  the  sugar,  it  will  make  it 
clearer;  two  teaspoonfuls  in  two  tablespoonfuls  of  water  to  three  pints  of  juice. 
A  teaspoonful  of  sugar  put  upon  the  top  of  jelly  in  the  glass  prevents  molding. 

Preserves  need  only  tying  up  with  several  thicknesses  of  paper,  over  which 
put  a  cloth;  but  they  should  be  looked  over  occasionally,  and  if  signs  of  fer- 
mentation appear,  just  heating  them  again  will  correct  it.  Stone  jars  of  small 
capacity  are  best  for  these. 

We  would  recommend  all  young  housekeepers  in  buying  their  jars,  etc.,  foi- 
canning  fruits  to  get  nothing  but  glass  or  stone  ware.  Everything  is  better 
put  up  in  these,  as  the  acids  in  so  many  fruits  acting  upon  tin  are  apt  to  make 
them  very  uuAvholesome,  if  not  positively  injurious.  Tomatoes,  peaches  and 
other  canned  fruits  may  then  be  wrapped  with  paper  to  keep  the  light  from 
them. 

TO  SEAL  UP  CANS  OR  JARS. 

Scald  the  fruit  thoroughly,  povir  into  the  cans;  have  ready  three  or  four  pieces 
of  paper  (a  thin,  tough  tea-paper  is  best),  cut  about  one  inch  larger  around  than 
the  top  of  the  can;  wet  the  under  side  with  tlie  white  of  an  egg, press  on  quickly, 
and  put  two  or  three  more  pieces  on  top  of  this,  wet  the  same  as  the  first;  tie  a 
string  around  over  these,  to  be  sure  they  are  close. 
Mrs.  RoscC.  Haveuor,  Centralia,  Wisconsin. 

TO  FILL  JARS  WITH  HOT  FRUIT  WITHOUT  AA^IRMING  THEM. 

Place  the  jar  in  a  bowl  of  cold  water,  and  pour  into  it  one  cupful  of  the 
boiling  fruit.  This  will  heat  the  jar  without  breaking  it,  and  it  must  be  taken 
out  of  the  water  to  finish  filling  it.  Care  must  be  taken  not  to  fill  the  hot  fruit 
higher  than  the  water  on  the  outside  of  the  jar  before  removing  it,  or  it  will  be 
sure  to  break.  This  will  also  answer  for  filling  jelly-glasses. 
M.  B.  Patterson. 

LIST  OF  FRUIT  IN  PRESERVES. 

Seven  and  one  half  pounds  of  cherries  and  seven  and  one  half  pounds  of 
sugar  make  one  gallon  of  preserves;  fourteen  pounds  of  blackberries  and  four- 
teen pounds  of  sugar  make  five  quarts  of  jam;  six  quarts  of  steamed  grapes 
make  five  and  one  half  pints  of  juice,  Avhich,  with  five  and  one  half  pounds  of 
sugar,  make  nine  tumblerfuls  of  jelly;  two  quarts  of  stemmed  currants  make  two 
pints  of  juice,  added  to  nearly  two  pounds  of  sugar,  make  three  tumblerfuls  of 
jelly. 

WATERMELON  PRESERVES. 

Select  one  Avith  a  thick  rind:  cut  into  any  shape  desired;  lay  the  pieces  in 
strong  salt-water  for  two  or  three  days;  then  soak  them  in  clear  water  for 
tAventy-four  hours,  changing  the  Avater  frequently;  then  put  thera  into  alum- 
Avater  for  an  hour  to  harden  them.  To  every  pound  of  fruit  use  one  pound  of 
sugar;  make  a  syrup  of  the  sugar  and  a  few  small  pieces  of  white  ginger-root 
and  one  sliced  lemon;  take  out  the  lemon  and  root,  after  the  syrup  has  been 
boiled,  and  add  the  watermelon;  let  it  boil  until  transparent.  Carefullj^  lift  it, 
and  put  it  into  the  jars,  pouring  the  syrup  over  it. 
^        Mrs.  N.  A.  P.,  Ridgeway,  South  Carolina. 


PRESERVES    AND    JELLIES.  31 3 

CITKON  PKESEKVES. 

St'loct  sound  fruit,  pare  it,  divide  into  quarters,  carefully  take  out  the  seeds, 
and  cut  into  very  small  pieces  any  slia])e  you  desire,  and  weijili  it;  to  every 
pound  of  fruit  allow  one  half  pound  of  loaf-sujiar.  Put  the  citron  on  to  cook 
until  it  is  quite  clear,  then  remove  it  from  the  kettle  where  it  can  drain,  and 
pour  out  the  water  it  was  cooked  in;  then  put  on  the  weighed  sugar,  with  water 
enough  to  wet  it  through;  let  it  boil  until  very  clear,  and  before  putting  in  th(> 
citron  again  add  to  the  syrup  two  large  sliced  lemons  and  a  small  piece  of 
ginger-i'oot  to  give  it  a  tine  flavor;  then  add  tlie  citron,  and  let  all  cook  together 
about  fifteen  minutes;  fill  the  jars  with  citron,  and  pour  over  the  hot  syrup, 
then  seal  up. 

Miss  Bettie  Ferguson,  Stockton,  Alabama. 

CITRON  AND  QUINCE  PRESERVES. 

Pare,  and  cut  the  citron  into  inch  pieces;  boil  hard  in  middling  strong  alum-, 
water  thirty  n.inutes;  drain,  and  boil  in  fresh  water  until  the  color  is  clianged 
and  tliey  are  tender.  Wasli  <'arefully  the  (luinces;  pare,  quarter,  coi-e  and  halve 
the  quarters;  boil  one  and  one  half  hoiu's  the  cores  and  parings  in  water  to  cover 
them;  remove  them,  and  add  the  prepared  quince  to  the  li(iuid;  boil,  and  when 
they  begin  to  be  tender,  add  the  citron  and  three  fourths  of  a  pound  of  white 
sugar  to  every  pound  of  the  fruits. 
C.  M.  Hulbert,  Ahnont,  Michigan. 

PRESERVED  PEARS. 

Select  smooth,  sweet  peai's  of  a  kind  w^hich  will  not  break  when  cooked; 
pare,  hah'e,  and  ren^^ove  the  cores;  drop  into  cold  water  as  you  pare,  to  prevent 
turning  black.  Put  a  little  over  one  quart  of  granulated  sugar  into  your  pre- 
serving-kettles; add  just  water  enougli  to  moisten  the  sugar;  when  warm,  put 
into  this  two  quarts  of  pears;  let  them  cook  very  slowly  several  hours;  when 
the  syrup  is  thick,  dip  the  preserves  into  glass  cans,  and  seal. 
Emma  Morrison,  Winchester,  Indiana. 

PINEAPPLE  PRESERVES. 

Pare  and  slice  tlie  apples;  then  weigh  them,  and  to  every  pound  of  fruit  use 
one  pound  of  sugar;  put  a  layer  of  the  slices  into  a  jar,  and  cover  them  with  a 
layer  of  sugar;  and  thus  proceed  until  the  apples  and  sugar  are  used  up;  let 
them  stand  over  night;  then  take  the  apples  out  of  the  syrup,  cook  the  syrup 
until  it  thickens,  replace  the  apples,  and  boil  fifteen  minutes;  take  the  apples 
out  of  the  syrup,  and  let  them  cool;  then  put  them  into  jars,  and  pour  the  syrup 
over  them.  A  few  pieces  of  ginger-root  boiled  in  the  syrup  will  improve  it. 
Mrs.  N.  A.  P.,  Ridge  way,  South  Carolina. 

TOMATO  PRESERVES. 

Scald  and  peel  carefully  small,  pear-shaped  tomatoes,  not  too  ripe;  prick 
with  a  needle  to  prevent  bursting,  and  put  their  weight  in  sugar  over  them; 
let  them  lie  over  night,  then  pour  off  all  the  juice  into  a  preserve-kettle,  and 
boil  until  it  is  as  thick  as  syrup,  clarifying  it  with  the  white  of  an  egg;  add  the 
tomatoes,  and  boil  until  they  look  transparent.  A  piece  or  two  of  ginger-root  or 
one  lemon  to  one  pound  of  fruit,  sliced  tliin  and  cooked  with  the  fruit,  will 
improve  it. 


314  PRESERVES    AND   JELLIES. 

PRESERVED  STRAWBERRIES. 

I*ejiioT(>  the  bulls  from  your  berries,  aud  put  into  a  colander  a  couple  of 
quarts  only  at  a  time;  pour  water  over  to  cleanse  them;  have  on  the  stove  a 
pan  of  syrup  n)a(le  of  two  j)ouuds  of  white  sugar  and  one  lialf  cupful  of  water, 
drop  the  berries  into  it,  allow  them  to  cook  rapidly  for  twenty  minutes,  remove 
all  the  scum  that  rises,  but  do  not  stir  the  fruit;  pour  into  tumblers,  and  when 
jou  are  all  done,  cook  your  syrup  and  juice  to  a  jelly,  and  lill  up  your  glasses; 
let  stand  until  next  day,  aud  tie  up  Avith  thin  paper,  over  which  put  a  cloth. 
Keep  in  a  dry  place. 

CANNING  STRAWBERRIES. 

Wash  the  berries  thoroughly  before  picking  off  the  stems,  and  Aveigh  them; 
to  each  pound  of  berries  alloAV  one  fourth  of  a  pound  of  sugar.     Let  them  cook 
fifteen  minutes  after  they  come  to  a  boil;  then  they  are  ready  for  the  cans. 
Bettie  Ferguson,  Stockton,  Alabama. 

CANNING  APPLES  AND  QUINCES. 

Pare  and  cut  equal  quantities  of  apples  and  quinces.  First  cook  the  quinces 
in  sufficient  water  to  cover  them  until  they  are  tender,  then  take  them  out,  and 
cook  the  apples  in  the  same  AA'ater;  put  into  a  jar  or  kettle  a  layer  of  quinces, 
then  of  apples  until  all  are  used;  pour  oA'er  them  a  syrup  made  of  one  half  pound 
of  sugar  to  one  pound  of  quinces,  dissolved  in  a  little  AA'ater,  and  let  it  stand  OA'er 
night.  The  next  day  heat  them  thoroughly,  aud  seal  in  cans. 
Mrs.  A.  P.  K.,  St.  Charles,  Missouri. 

CANNED   PLUMS. 

TwelA'e  pounds  of  damsons  and  three  pounds  of  sugar  will  fill  six  quart 
cans,  aud  the  same  of  pears  and  peaches. 

CANNED  PEACHES. 

Pare  the  peaches  with  a  sih^er  knife,  if  possible,  cut  into  halves,  and  lay  in 
cold  water  until  ready.  Put  on  the  stove  one  pound  of  sugar,  with  one  and  one 
half  quarts  of  hot  water  turned  over  it;  let  it  cook  to  a  sj'rup.  Set  your  jars  on 
a  cloth  in  hot  Avater;  fill  your  jars  with  the  cold  peaches,  putting  a  layer  of 
sugar  between  the  peaches;  when  the  jar  is  full  of  peaches,  fill  up  AAath  the  hot 
syrup,  and  seal  immediately.  The  water  the  jars  set  in  should  come  nearly  to 
the  top. 

CANNED   GRAPES. 

Carefully  pick  from  the  stems,  and  Avash  the  grapes;  remove  the  skins, 
dropping  the  pulp  into  one  vessel  and  the  skins  into  another.  When  all  are  thus 
prepared,  put  the  pulps  into  a  preserving-kettle  over  the  fire,  aud  stir  con- 
stantly until  the  seeds  come  out  clean;  then  press  the  mass  through  a  colander, 
add  the  skins  to  the  pulp,  weigh  them,  and  to  one  pound  of  grapes  allow  one 
half  pound  of  sugar;  boil  one  and  one  half  hours,  and  put  into  glass  jars  while 
hot,  and  seal.  Thirteen  pounds  of  grapes  and  six  and  one  half  pounds  of  sugar 
Avill  fill  six  quart  cans. 

Russie  Peagan,  Palmyra,  Missouri. 


PRESERVES    AND   JELLIES.  315 

CANNED  TEAKS. 

Ten   pounds  of  fruit,   peelod,   halved   and  cored,   five  pounds  of  sugar,   one 

sliced  lemon,  one  teaspoonful  of  ground  cinnamon,  one  teaspoonful  of  grated 

nutmeg,  a  piece  of  ginger-root  three  inches  long;  tie  the  cinnamon  and  nutmeg 

loosely  in  a  thin  muslin  bag;  cook  all  together  until  the  pears  turn  i)ink,  then 

bottle,  and  seal  hot. 

BLACK BEKKY  JAM. 

Two  quarts  of  blackberries,  one  (luart  of  linely  cooked  apples  and  two  quarts 
of  sugar;  boil  twenty  minutes. 
L.  K.  E.,  Lebanon,  Oliio. 

KEI)  OK  BLACK  KASPBEKKY  JAM. 

To  use  one  third  of  currants  to  two  thii-ds  of  raspberries  is  better  than  the 
berries  alone.  JNIash  tlie  fruit  well,  and  let  it  boil  twenty  miniites;  weigh  the 
quantity;  allowing  for  the  weight  of  the  kettle,  and  to  every  pound  of  fruit  use 
three  fourths  of  a  pound  of  sugar.  After  this  is  put  in,  let  it  boil  until,  by  taking 
some  out  on  a  plate  to  try  it,  no  .iuice  gathers  about  it;  then  it  is  ready  to  put 
away,  as  you  would  jelly,  in  glasses;  or  stone  jars  are  nice. 
Mary  McAllister,  Meclianicsville,  Iowa. 

PLUM  AND  APPLE  JAM. 

After  canning  phuns  there  is  often  some  left,  not  enough  to  till  a  can;  a  very 
nice  jam  can  be  made  of  this  by  putting  it  through  a  sieve,  and  adding  the 
same  quantity  of  good  cooked  apples;  sweeten  to  taste,  and  put  in  a  very  little 
cinnamon  and  cloves;  cook  one  hour,  then  tie  up  in  jars  when  cold. 

APPLE  BUTTEK. 

Three  gallons  of  cooked  apples,  one  quart  of  cider  vinegar  and  five  pounds  of 
brown  sugar;  boil  this  down  to  about  two  gallons,  and  season  with  cinnamon. 
Sallie  E.  Ruff,  Kingsville,  Mississippi. 

TOMATO   BI'TTEK. 

Five  <iuarts  of  tomatoes  and  six  quarts  of  apples;  stew  separately;  mix  well, 
put  into  a  kettle,  and  add  six  pounds  of  sugar,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  ground 
cloves  and  three  tablespoonfids  of  cinnamon. 
Mrs.  E.  W.  Tliomas,  Fetteinian,  Pennsylvania. 

CRANBERKY  JELLY. 

To  three  quarts  of  cranberries  take  two  pounds  of  good  white  sugar  and  one 
quart  of  water;  cook  thoroughly,  mashing  all  the  berries  fine,  then  put  all 
through  a  fine  sieve;  return  the  juice  to  the  stove,  and  cook  fifteen  minutes 
more.    Pour  into  glasses,  and  seal  when  cool. 

SPICED  GRAPE  JELLY. 

Take  grapes  half  ripe,  crush  all  tlie  juice  out  well,  and  strain;  take  equal 
quantities  of  juice  and  sugar;  to  each  quart  add  one  half  teaspoonful  of  cloves 
and  one  tablespoonful  of  cinnamon;  cook  hard  twenty  minutes,   then  remove 
from  the  stove,  and  pour  into  glasses, 
Christie  Irving. 


316  PEESEBVES   AND   JELLIES. 

CURRANT  JELLY. 

Wash,  and  strip  the  currants  from  the  stems,  and  put  them  into  a  preserving- 
kettle;  mash  them  as  they  get  hot,  and  let  them  boil  one  lialf  hour;  then  turn 
them  into  a  coarse  hair-sieve  or  jellj'^-bag,  and  let  them  drip;  Avheu  through 
dripping,  without  squeezing,  measure,  and  pour  into  the  liettle  to  cook.  After 
it  has  boiled  about  ten  minutes,  put  in  the  heated  sugar,  allowing  one  pound 
of  sugar  to  one  pint  of  jelly,  and  the  jelly  Avill  set  as  soon  as  the  sugar  is  dis- 
solved—about three  quarters  of  an  liour. 
Mary  McAllister,  Mecbanicsville,  Iowa. 

GRAPE  JELLY. 

To  every  eight  pounds  of  fruit  take  one  coffee-cupful  of  water;  put  them  into 
a  porcelain-lined  kettle,  and  boil  until  quite  soft;  strain  through  a  cloth  strainer; 
measure  the  juice;  measure  and  set  aside  an  equal  quantity  of  granulated 
sugar;  then  boil  the  juice  one  half  hour;  add  the  sugar,  and  let  it  boil  five  or 
eiglit  minutes  longer.  All  jellies,  to  be  good,  should  have  nearly  all  of  the 
boiling  done  before  the  sugar  is  added.  Fruit  that  is  partially  ripe  makes  the 
prettiest  jellies. 

Mis.  Thos.  Morgan. 

RHUBARB  AND  APPLE  JELLY. 

Cut  up  your  rhubarb,  and  wash  it;  put  over  the  fire  without  any  water  at 
all;  take  good  sour  apples,  pare  and  quarter,  and  cook  in  a  very  little  water; 
strain  the  juice  from  both,  and  put  them  on  the  stove  to  cook  for  fifteen  min- 
utes; then  add  the  heated  sugar,  three  fourths  as  much  sugar  as  juice;  boil  hard 
for  twenty  minutes.  Turn  into  glasses,  and  set  in  the  sun,  if  possible,  for  half  a 
day;  seal  the  next  day. 


Chapter  XVIII. 
ALKATIIREPTA  AND   BKOMA. 


Two  preparations  of  cocoa,  which  can  be  obtained  at  the  rtrug-stores,  with 
full  directions  upon  the  package  for  making  into  drink.  It  is  very  delicate,  and 
can  be  used  in  illness. 

COCOA-SHELLS,  OR  NIBS. 

Cocoa-shells  are  the  thin  coverings  of  the  cocoa-kernel,  and  can  be  bought 
at  a  very  low  price.  They  form  a  light  food  for  an  invalid  when  taken  warm. 
Soak  them  in  water  during  the  night,  and  then  boil  them  in  the  same  water 
until  it  is  reduced  to  half  the  quantity.  They  should  boil  two  hours,  and  then 
be  mixed  with  milk. 

COFFEE. 

Grind   the  necessary  amount  of  coffee,   and  put  it  into  the  pot  with  just 
enough  water  to  boil  it;  let  it  boil  five  or  six  minutes,  and  then  set  it  on  the 
back  of  the  stove;  a  few  minutes  before  serving,  pour  enough  boiling  watei' 
into  tlie  pot  to  make  the  required  quantity  of  coffee. 
Mary  A.  Rush,  Claysville,  Arkansas. 

COFFEE. 

Carefully  roast  good  coffee,  grind  it,  and  for  every  teacupful  of  ground  coffee 
put  one  egg;  shake  it  well  in  the  coffee-pot,  and  add  a  few  spoonfuls  of  boiling 
water,  mix  this  well,  tlien  pour  on  as  much  water  as  the  coffee  requires;  let 
it  cook  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes. 

Mrs,  Charles  Van  F.,  Westerville,  Ohio. 

317 


818 


BEVEEAGES. 


TEA-BALLS. 

These  useful  articles  are  made  lu  different  shapes,  of  plated  and  also  solid 
silver.  They  are  opened,  the  tea  is  put  inside,  then  closed,  and  boiling  water 
poured  over  them  into  the  teacups;  the  perforations  allow  the  water  to  reach 


the  leaves,  making  the  tea  any  strength  desired  without  the  annoyance  of  the 
floating  leaves.  The  ring  is  placed  upon  the  finger,  and  the  ball  dipped  up  and 
down  through  the  water.  The  tea  can  be  changed  when  fresh  is  desired.  This 
will  also  serve  for  afternoon  teas. 

TEA. 

People  must  consult  their  own  tastes  as  to  the  kind  of  tea.  Mixed  is  the 
best  to  use  with  ice.  Allow  one  teaspoonful  for  each  person.  Use  boiling  water, 
but  do  not  boil  the  tea,  and  use  v/hile  fresh.     Tea  is  best  made  in  an  earthen 


tea-pot.  It  should  never  be  made  in  tin.  Iced  tea  should  be  made  several  hours 
before  it  is  needed,  and  then  set  upon  ice.  When  ready  to  use,  sweeten,  and 
drink  without  milk  or  cream.    LTse  cracked  ice  to  put  into  the  glass. 

TEA. 

Allow  one  teaspoonful  of  tea  for  three  cupfuls;  pour  on  nearly  one  quart  of 
boiling  water,  and  set  it  where  it  will  keep  warm,  but  not  cook.  Some  put  a 
pinch  of  tea-leaves  into  the  cup,  and  fill  it  up  with  hot  wafer.  If  is  ready  to  use 
nfter  standing  a  few  moments. 


BEVERAGES.  319 

CHOCOLATE. 

One  cupful  of  milk,  ono  cupful  of  water,  one  tablespoonful  of  grratcd  choc- 
olate; sweeten  to  taste;  boil  for  live  minutes;  scalding  will  not  do.  This  makes 
two  cupfuls. 

Helen  F.  Dawley,  Jorchmsville,  New  York. 

CHOCOLATE. 

Allow  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  grated  chocolate  to  one  pint  of  fresh  milk; 
let  it  come  to  a  boil,  and  sweeten  to  taste. 

LEMONADE. 

This  is  invaluable  in  fevers,  and  also  in  x'lieumatic  affections.  Rub  two 
medium-sized  lemons  soft;  cut  them  through  the  center,  and  squeeze  out  the 
juice;  take  out  the  seeds;  put  two  tablespoonfuls  of  whitie  sugar  to  each  lemon 
and  one  pint  of  cold  or  boiling  water,  according  as  you  desire  the  lemonade— hot 
or  cold. 


Lemon-extractor. 

AUNT  ELLEN'S  SODA-WATER. 

3  pounds  of  sugar,  i^  of  a  pound  of  tartaric  acid, 

ll^  pints  of  molasses,  %  ounce 'of  sassafras, 

2  quarts  of  boiling  water. 
After  these  have  boiled  together,  bottle,  and  cork  well.     It  will  keep  a.  long 
time  in  a  cool,  dark  place.     Use  two  tablespoonfuls  of  tliis  syrup  and  one  half 
teaspoonful  of  soda  to  a  glassful  of  water. 
E.  C,  Hoosac,  New  York. 

SODA-CREAM. 

Dissolve  one  i)Ound  of  lemon-sugar  in  one  pint  of  water,  and  let  it  boil;  add 
the  whites  of  three  egtis,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  boil  four  minutes,  stir,  and 
strain;  when  cold,  add  four  teaspoonfuls  of  lemon  extract,  and  bottle.  When 
Avanted  for  use,  put  four  tablespoonfuls  into  a  glass  of  ice- water,  add  to  it  one 
third  of  a  spoonful  of  soda,  stir,  and  drink. 

STRAWBERRY  ACID. 

Dissolve  four  ounces  of  tartaric  acid  in  two  quarts  of  water,  and  pour  it  over 
tAvo  gallons  of  ripe  strawberries;  let  stand  twenty-foiu*  hours,  and  drain  the 
liquor  off;  to  every  pint  of  juice  add  one  and  one  half  pounds  of  loaf-sugar;  boil, 
let  stand  three  days,  and  bottle.  A  fcAV  spoonfuls  in  a  glassful  of  ice-water 
make  a  delightful  drink. 

LEMON  VINEGAR. 

Keep  a  Jar  of  vinegar,  into  which  put  lemon-peel  not  used  in  cooking.  A  few 
spoonfuls  of  it  Avill  make  a  pleasant  and  refreshing  drink  added  to  ice-water 
well  sweetened. 


3^0  BEVERAGES. 

RASPBERRY  VINEGAR.  • 

Put  ripe  raspberries  into  a  stone  jar,  cover  with  cidei'  vinegar,  let  stand 
twenty-four  hours;  pour  the  liquor  over  a  gallon  of  fresh  berries,  and  let  stand 
over  uight;  allow  one  pound  of  loaf-sugar  to  one  pint  of  juice;  boil,  and  skim; 
bottle.    Add  one  half  glassful  of  the  vinegar  to  one  of  ice-Avater. 

HARVEST  DRINK. 

1  quart  of  water,  .  1  tablespoonful  of  sifted  ginger, 

3  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  %  pint  of  vinegar. 

SWEET-GRAPE  CORDIAL. 

Take  twenty  pounds  of  Concord  grapes,  add  three  quarts  of  water,  crushing 
the  grapes  in  the  water,  and  put  them  into  a  porcelain  kettle;  stir  them  well 
until  it  reaches  boiling  heat,  let  them  cook  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes,  then  strain 
through  a  cloth;  add  three  pounds  of  white  sugar;  when  the  sugar  is  dissolved, 
strain  again  through  a  cloth;  heat  to  the  boiling-point  again,  pour  it  into  pint  or 
quart  bottles,  and  seal  instantly.  It  will  not  keep  after  being  opened,  so  it  is 
best  to  put  up  only  enough  to  be  used  at  once.  Have  the  bottles  thoroughly 
heated,  and  use  new  corks;  dip  the  necks,  with  corks  in,  into  hot  sealing-wax. 


Chapter  XIX. 

ICE-CREAM  CANDY. 

1  capful  of  sugar,  i/i  teaspoouful  of  cream  of  tartar, 
1-3  cupful  of  water,  Butter  the  size  of  an  egg. 

Boil  all  together  about  fifteen  minutes,  uot  stirring  until  taken  from  the  fire, 
when  the  extract  is  added. 

ICE-CREi!M  CANDY. 

0  pints  of  white  sugar,  1%  pints  of  water, 

2  teaspooafuls  of  cream  of  tartar. 

Boil  .until  it  ropes,  or  when  dropped  into  a  glass  of  ice-water  will  stand  up  in 
it;  pull  until  very  white. 

Miss  Belle  Mast,  Springfield,  Ohio. 


CREAM  CANDY. 

Three  cupfuls  of  white  sugar;  a  little  more  water  than  enough  to  cover.  Do 
not  stir  it  while  cooking.  Let  it  boil  until  it  ropes,  then  before  taking  it  off  tlie 
stove,  add  one  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar  moistened  with  the  flavoring  you 
choose.    When  cold,  pull  until  perfectly  white. 


Mrs.  Lizzie  K.,  Springfield,  Ohio. 
11 


321 


322  CANDIES. 

NUT  CANDY. 

Boil  together  until  it  "snaps"  when  dropped  into  cold  water,  two  oupfuls 
of  dark  brown  maple  sugar  and  one  cupful  of  millv  or  cream;  remove  from  the 
fire,  and  stir  rapidly  until  it  begins  to  sugar;  add  one  cupful  of  chopped  shag- 
barks;  pour  into  a  buttered  tin. 

Mrs.  Althea  Somes,  Teacher  of  Cookery,  Manual  Training  School,  Boston,  Mass. 

NUT  CANDY. 

Take  a  well-buttered  plate,  and  spread  on  it  about  one  half  pint  of  hickory- 
nut  kernels;  then  take  one  jiint  of  maple  molasses,  boil  it  until  it  becomes  thick, 
and  try  it  by  dropping  some  into  cold  water;  when  it  hardens  in  the  water,  pour 
it  over  the  kernels,  and  stir  up  quickly. 
Lewisburg,  Ohio. 

COCOANUT  CANDY. 

2  teacupfuls  of  white  sugar,  1/2  teacupful  of  sweet  cream, 

Butter  tlie  size  of  a  walnut. 
Let  it  boil  fifteen  minutes;  then  stir  in  as  much  cocoanut  as  you  think  best: 
flavor  to  taste. 

Carrie  L.,  Austin. 

VANILLA  SUGAR  CANDY. 

2  pounds  of  granulated  sugar,  Butler  the  size  of  an  egg, 

2-3  of  a  cupful  of  water,  1  tablespoonful  of  glycerin, 

1-3  of  a  cupful  of  vinegar,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  vanilla. 

Boil  all  except  vanilla,  Avithout  stirring,  twenty  minutes  or  one  half  hour,  or 
until  crisp  when  dropped  into  water.  Just  before  pouring  upon  platters  to  cool, 
add  one  small  teaspoonful  of  soda  or  cream  of  tartar.  After  pouring  upon 
platters,  pour  over  it  the  vanilla.  This  can  be  pulled  beautifully  white.  Make 
in  strips,  and  cut  with  shears. 

WHITE-SUGAR  CANDY. 
4  pounds  of  white  sugar,  4  tablespoonfuls  of  cream, 

1  pint  of  water,  4  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar. 

Butter  the  size  of  an  egg. 

Boil  all  together  sloAvly  for  about  three  quarters  of  an  hour. 
Weldon  W.,  Springfield,  Ohio. 

UNCOOKED  CANDY. 

Into  the  whites  of  two  eggs  stir  as  much  confectioners'  XXXX  sugar  as  will 
make  the  mixture  like  a  soft  dough.  This  is  used  as  a  foundation  for  a  great 
many  kinds  of  candy.  Put  it  out  on  a  molding-board,  and  form  into  balls,  which 
can  be  dipped  into  melted  chocolate,  and  made  into  chocolate  creams.  A  piece 
put  between  a  split  date,  with  the  seed  removed,  and  the  Avliole  rolled  in  either 
pinlv  or  Avhite  granulated  sugar,  forms  another.  A  piece  put  between  two  half 
kernels  of  English  walnut  makes  another.  Chopped  nuts  mixed  in  the  dough, 
and  then  cut  into  squares,  forms  another.  Putting  a  little  red  sugar  in  the 
mixture  as  you  stir  it  makes  a  lovely  pink  color,  which  you  can  arrange  in  layers 
between  the  white,  and  cut  into  squares.  Tliese  are  only  a  few  of  its  uses.  Use 
any  flavoring  extract  desired,  but  in  very  small  drop  quantities.  ' 

L.  A.  C. 


CANDIES.  323 

MOIvASSES  CANDY. 

Two  cupfuls  of  Orloaiis  molasses,  one  cupful  of  brown  sufjar,  bultcr  tlio  size 
of  a  walnut;  boil  twenty  minutes;  when  done,  add  to  the  candy  two  teaspoonfuls 
of  cream  of  tartar,  one  teaspoouful  of  soda,  cue  tablespoouful  of  viuegar;  let  it 
stand  until  cool  enough  to  pull. 

L.  C.  W.,  Port  Kennedy,  Pennsylvania. 

MAPLE-SUGAR  CANDY. 

1  cupful  of  maple  su.nar,  i^  cupful  of  water, 

Small  bit  of  l)utter. 

Boil  about  ten  minutes;  when  done,  add  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla,  and  pour 
into  buttered  tins.     It  must  not  be  stirred. 
Mrs.  E.  L.  Clark,  Skaneateles,  New  York. 

AVALNUT  TAFFY. 
1  cupful  of  granulated  sugar,  1  scant  cuiiful  of  molasses, 

1  scant  cupful  of  milk,  1  level  teaspoonful  of  butter. 

Boil  twenty  minutes,  or  until  the  mixture  becomes  brittle  when  dropped  into 
cold  water;  add  two  level  teaspoonfuls  of  cocoa  and  one  teaspoonful  of  v;uiilla; 
pour  it  over  one  half  pound  of  Englisli  Avalnuts  which  have  been  slielled, 
quartered  and  spread  evenly  over  a  buttered  tin. 

Miss  Angeline  M.  Weaver,  Instructor  Hyde  School  Kitchen,  Boston,  Massachusetts. 

VANILLA  TAFFY. 

1  cupful  of  vinegar.  Butter  the  size  of  a  walnut, 
3  cupfuls  of  sugar,                                       i/.  teaspoonful  of  vanilla. 

VINEGAR  TAFFY. 

2  tablespooufuls  of  vinegar,  4  tablespoonfuls  of  water, 
G  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar. 

Boil  twenty  minutes,  then  pour  onto  a  buttei'ed  plate. 
"Lollypops." 

FRENCH  VANILLA  CREAM. 

Break  into  a  bowl  the  white  of  one  or  more  eggs;  add  to  it  an  equal  quantity 
of  cold  Avater;  then  stir  (do  not  beat  it)  in  the  confectioners'  sugar  until  you 
haA'e  it  stiff  enough  to  mold  in  shape  Avith  the  fingers;  flavor  with  vanilla. 
After  it  is  formed  into  balls,  cubes  or  any  other  shape  desired,  lay  them  upon 
sheets  of  waxed  paper  upon  plates,  and  set  aside  to  dry.  This  is  the  founda- 
tion of  all  French  creams. 

rARISIAN  CREAMS. 

Make  the  French  cream  (see  recipe),  and  divide  into  three  parts,  leaving  one 
part  white,  color  one  part  pink  with  a  few  drops  of  fruit  coloring,  and  the  third 
part  brown  with  grated  chocolate;  make  a  cake  about  one  half  inch  thick  of  the 
white  cream,  AA'hich  may  be  done  by  rolling  on  a  platter  or  marble  slab.  Take 
the  pink  in  the  same  manner,  and  lay  it  upon  Avhite  cream,  then  the  chocolate 
in  the  same  manner,  pressing  it  all  together;  trim  the  edges  smooth,  and  cut 
into  squares.     Each  layer  may  be  tlavored  differently 


324  CANDIES. 

CHOCOLATE  CREAMS. 

Two  cupfuls  of  while  sugar  and  one  half  cupful  of  water;  put  on  the  fire, 
and  boil  about  tJiree  minutes,  stirring  constantly;  then  stir  in  one  large  half 
cupful  of  corn-starch;  flavor  Avith  lemon;  Avorli  up  very  quiclily  into  little  cones. 
Have  ready  one  half  cake  of  melted  chocolate;  dip  in  the  cones,  and  place  on  a 
plate  to  harden. 

Mrs.  G.  W.  Dains,  East  Litchfield,  Connecticut. 

P^RENCH  CREAM. 

These  candies  are  made  with  XXXX  confectioners'  sugar,  and  can  be  made 
without  boiling.  The  sugar  can  be  obtained  at  any  large  grocery,  and  is  as 
fine  as  flour. 

CREAM  WALNUTS. 

Crack  English  walnuts  carefully,  so  as  to  take  the  meat  out  whole.  Take 
the  wliite  of  an  egg,  half  as  much  water,  and  stir  in  powdered  sugar  until  the 
paste  is  stiff;  put  the  paste  between  the  pieces  of  walnut. 

CHOCOLATE  CARAMELS. 

2  cupfuls  of  brown  sugar,  %  cupful  of  butter, 

1  cupful  of  molasses,  Yo  pound  of  grated  chocolate, 

1  cupful  of  cream  or  milk,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  flour. 

Boil  the  molasses,  butter,  sugar  and  flour  for  fifteen  minutes;  stir  the  choc- 
olate into  the  cream,  and  pour  in  the  boiling  syrup,  and  boil  until  done;  drop 
a  little  into  cold  water;  if  it  piles  up  and  hardens,  then  it  is  done.  Before 
pouring  it  out  on  buttered  pans  or  plates,  add  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla,  and 
as  it  cools,  crease  it  into  small  squares. 
Mrs.  E.  W.,  Mount  Vernon,  Ohio. 

BUTTER-SCOTCH. 

3  cupfuls  of  brown  sugar,  Butter  the  size  of  a  walnut, 
%  of  a  cupful  of  water,                              A  pinch  of  soda. 

Flavor  to  suit  the  taste. 
Cook  until  it  begins  to  harden  when  dripping  from  a  spoon.    Pour  it  out  into 
buttered  pie-pans.    As  it  cools,  mark  it  off  into  squares  with  a  knife  dipped  into 
water  to  keep  it  from  sticking.    When  wanted  for  eating,  turn  the  pan  bottom 
side  up,  knock  on  it,  and  the  candy  will  come  out  without  any  trouble. 

Lizzie  Mast,  Springfield,  Ohio. 


Chapter  XX. 

A  majority  of  tin-  ailments  of  tlie  liiiman  race  are  caused  by  a  "disordered 
stomacli,"  and  tlie  greatest  danger  to  our  system  is  the  uon-assimilation  of 
food.  In  a  good  many  cases  this  has  been  caused  through  injudicious  food, 
or  by  food  partaken  of  in  too  great  a  hurry.  "Peptonized  diet"  is  the  only 
remedy.  The  food  must  reach  the  stomach  in  a  prepared  state,  and  will  be 
readily  absorbed  by  the  system  and  strengthen  the  debilitated  organs  so  that 
they  will  be  able  again  to  perform  their  duties.  In  cases  of  convalescence  and 
consumption  this  treatment  will  be  of  great  value.  We  will  make  a  few  sug- 
gestions for  these  preparations. 


BROTH,  QUICKLY  MADE. 

Take  a  bone  or  two  of  a  neck  or  loin  of  mutton,  and  take  off  the  fat  and 
skin,  set  it  over  the  fire  in  a  small  tin  saucepan  that  has  a  cover,  with  three 
fourths  of  a  pint  of  water,  the  meat  being  first  beaten  and  cut  into  thin  bits; 
put  in  a  bit  of  thyme  and  parsley,  and  if  approved,  a  slice  of  onion.  Let  it  boil 
very  quickly,  skim  it  nicely;  take  off  the  cover  if  likely  to  be  too  weak,  else 
cover  it.     Half  an  hour  Is  sufficient  for  the  whole  process. 

335 


326  .  INVALID    COOKERY. 

CLEAR  BROTH. 

The  following  is  a  clear  brotli  tliat  will  lieep  long:  I'ut.  the  rouiicl  of  beef, 
a  knuckle-bone  of  veal  and  a  few  shanks  of  mutton  into  a  deep  pan,  and  cover 
closely  with  a  dish  or  coarse  crust;  bake  until  the  beef  is  done  enough  for 
eating,  with  only  as  much  water  as  Avill  cover.  When  cold,  cover  it  closely  in 
a  cocl  place.    When  to  be  used,  give  what  flavor  may  be  approved. 

CHICKEN  BROTH. 

Put  the  body  and  legs  of  the  fowl  of  Avhich  chicken  panada  was  made,  after 
taking  off  the  skin  and  rump,  into  the  water  in  which  it  was  boiled,  with  a  blade 
of  mace,  one  slice  of  onion  and  ten  peppercorns.  Simmer  until  the  broth  be  of  a 
pleasant  flavor;  if  there  is  not  water  enough,  add  a  little.  Beat  fine  one  fourth 
of  an  ounce  of  sweet  almonds,  witli  a  teaspoonful  of  water,  boil  it  in  the  broth, 
strain,  and  when  cold,  remove  the  fat. 

VEAL  EROTH. 

Put  the  knuckle  of  a  leg  or  shoulder  of  veal  with  very  little  meat  to  it,  an 
old  fowl  and  four  shank-bones  of  mutton  extremely  well  soaked  and  bruised, 
three  blades  of  mace,  ten  peppercorns,  an  onion,  a  large  bit  of  bread  and  three 
quarts  of  water  into  a  stew-pot  that  covers  closely,  and  simmer  in  the  slowest 
manner  after  it  has  boiled  up  and  been  slvimmed;  or  bake  it;  strain,  and  take 
off  the  fat;  salt  as  wanted.    It  will  require  four  hours. , 

YEAL  BROTH  FOR  INVALIDS. 

Cut  two  pounds  of  lean  veal  into  small  pieces;  sprinkle  a  little  salt  upon 
these,  and  put  them  into  a  saucepan  with  one  quart  of  cold  water.  Let  the 
liquor  boil,  skim  carefully,  then  simmer  as  gently  as  possible.  Strain  it,  let  it 
get  cold,  and  remove  the  fat  from  the  surface;  thicken  with  a  little  arrow- 
root before  serving.    Time  to  simmer  the  veal,  three  hours. 

WHITE   BROTHS,   WITH   VERMICELLI. 

Light  and  delicate  white  broths  maj^  be  produced  by  stirring  the  yolks  of 
two  or  three  fresh  eggs  with  tAvo  tablespoonfuls  of  cold  water,  which  must 
then  be  poured  into  the  hot  broth,  gently  stirring  it  all  the  time,  without  allow- 
ing the  broth  to  boil  after  the  eggs  are  put  in,  or  they  will  be  curdled. 

PEPTONIZED  BROTH. 

Take  one  quart  of  consomme  (as  stated  under  "Consomme"),  boil  it  down  to 
one  pint,  and  when  nearly  cool,  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  essence  of  pepsin; 
put  on  the  ice  at  once.     Ready  for  use  as  soon  as  cold. 

Eugene  Stnyvesant  Howard,  Member  of  tlie  Univprsal  Cookery  and  Food  Association, 
London,  England,  and  Cbef  de  Cuisine,  Louisville  Hotel. 

WATER  GRUEL.  ' 

Rub  smooth  a  large  spoonful  of  oatmeal  with  two  of  water,  and  pour  it 
into  one  pint  of  water  boiling  on  the  fire;  stir  it  well,  and  boil  quickly,  but  take 
care  that  it  does  not  boil  over.  In  a  quarter  of  an  liour  strain  it  off,  and  add 
salt  and  a  bit  of  butter  when  eaten.    Stir  until  the  butter  be  incorporated. 


INVALID    CUUKEKV.  327 

SA(U)  (JIIUEL. 

Take  tAVO  tablespooiifuls  of  saso,  and  place  thorn  in  a  small  saucepan; 
moisten  !>radually  with  a  little  cold  water;  set  the  preparation  over  a  slow  lire, 
and  keep  stirring  until  it  becomes  rather  stiff  and  clear;  add  a  little  grated 
nutmeg  and  sugar  to  taste;  if  pi-eferred,  half  a  pat  of  butter  may  also  be  added 
with  the  sugar. 

INVALIDS"  sour. 

Split  a  falf's  foot,  and  cut  one  pound  of  good,  lean,  juicy  beef  and  one 
pound  of  lean  mutton  into  small  ])ieces;  put  them,  together  with  one  half  gallon 
of  water,  into  an  earthenware  jar,  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven  for  from  si.x:  to  seven 
hours,  adding  another  quart  of  water,  a  small  teaspoonful  of  whole  allspice 
and  a  leaf  or  two  of  sage  Avhen  the  mixture  has  been  stewing  tliree  or  four 
hours.  When  the  soup  is  reduced  to  half  tlie  quantity,  strain  through  a  sieve, 
and  when  cold  and  a  jelly,  remove  the  fat.  This  soup  may  be  taken  cold,  or 
Avarmed  up  with  a  little  vermicelli,  and  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Sufficient  for 
three  pints. 

BEEF  TEA. 

Cut  into  small  pieces  t^AO  pounds  of  fresh,  lean  beef;  add  three  pints  of  cold 
water;  when  on  the  eve  of  boiling,  carefully  remove  the  scum;  the  moment  it 
boils  add  one  pint  of  cold  water;  then  let  it  boil  up  again,  and  remove  the  scum 
as  before.  If  by  this  time  it  is  not  perfectly  clear,  the  same  quantity  of  water 
may  be  added  the  second  time,  Avhich  Avill  cause  more  scum  to  rise.  The  same 
remarks  apply  to  all  other  broths  and  gravies,  Avhich  will  always  be  trans- 
parent and  finely  flavored  if  the  same  rule  be  observed.  Beef  tea  should  be 
allowed  to  simmer  not  less  than  three  quarters  of  an  hour,  and  not  more  than 
one  hour  from  the  time  it  is  last  skimmed. 

CHICKEN   TANADA. 

Take  the  breast  of  a  cold  chicken,  and  pound  it  in  a  mortar  to  a  very  fine 

paste,  then  put  it  into  a  very  small  stew-pan,  and  add  to  it,  gradually,  as  much 

boiling-hot  broth  as  will  make  it  of  the  required  consistency;  season  with  a  little 

salt ;  place  the  stew-pan  over  the  fire,  stir  the  contents,  but  do  not  let  them  boil. 

TOAST  AND  WATER. 

Toast  slowly  a  thin  piece  of  bread  until  extremely  brown  and  hard,  but  not 
the  least  black;  then  plunge  it  into  a  jugful  of  cold  water,  and  cover  it  over  an 
bouV  before  using.    It  should  be  of  a  fine  brown  color  before  drinking  it. 

ArPLE-WATER. 

Cut  two  large  apples  into  slices,  and  pour  a  quart  of  boiling  water  on  them, 
or  on  roasted  apples;  strain  in  two  or  three  hours,  and  sweeten  slightly. 

BARLEY-WATER. 

Wash  a  laandful  of  common  barley,  tlien  simmer  it  gently  in  three  pints  of 
water  with  a  bit  of  lemon-iK>el. 


t^i 


INVALiD   COOKERY; 


INVALIDS'  LEMONADE; 


Put  about  half  of  a  slicod  lemon,  pared  and  divested  of  the  inner  Skin;  oi' 
pith,  with  the  parings  and  an  ounce  or  tAvo  of  lump-sugar,  into  a  jug;  poui' 
boiling  water  over  these  ingredients,  and  cover  closely.  In  two  hours  strain  for 
use.  To  the  above  quantity  of  lemon  add  one  pint  of  water,  wliich  will  malve 
a  refreshing  lemonade. 

ORANGEADE. 

Take  the  thin  peel  of  two  oranges  and  of  one  lemon;  add  the  water  and 
sugar  the  same  as  for  lemonade;  when  cold,  add  the  juice  of  one  lemon  and  of 
four  or  five  oranges,  and  strain  off. 

FLAXSEED  LEMONADE. 

Four  tablespoonfuls  of  whole  flaxseed,  one  quart  of  boiling  water  poured 
on  the  flaxseed,  and  the  juice  of  two  lemons,  leaving  out  the  peel;  sweeten  to 
taste;  steep  three  hours  in  a  covered  pitcher.  If  too  thick,  put  in  cold  water, 
with  the  lemon-juice  and  sugar.     Ice  for  drinking.    It  is  splendid  for  colds. 

TAPIOCA  JELLY. 

Choose  the  largest  sort,  pour  cold  water  on  to  wash  it  two  or  three  times, 
then  soak  it  in  fresh  water  five  or  six  hours,  and  simmer  it  in  the  same  until 
it  becomes  quite  clear;  then  put  lemon-juice  and  sugar  in.  The  peel  should 
have  been  boiled  in  it.    It  thickens  very  much. 

MULLED  JELIiY. 

Take  one  tablespoonful  of  currant  or  grape  jelly;  beat  with  it  the  white  of 
one  egg  and  a  little  loaf-sugar;  pour  on  it  one  half  pint  of  boiling  Avater,  and 
break  in  a  slice  of  dry  toast  or  two  crackers. 

CALVES'-FEET  JELLY. 

Boil  two  calves'  feet  in  four  quarts  of  water  for  five  hours,  then  strain  the 
liquor  through  a  hair-sieve,  and  the  next  day  take  off  all  the  fat.  Whisk  the 
whites  and  shells  of  three  eggs  in  a  stew-pan,  then  put  in  the  jelly,  and  add  a 
small  piece  of  cinnamon,  the  thin  peel  of  two  lemons  and  the  juice  of  three, 
with  about  six  or  seven  ounces  of  loaf-sugar;  put  the  steAv-pan  over  a  brisk  fire, 
and  whisk  its  contents  until  on  the  eve  of  boiling,  then  remove  the  stew-pan, 
cover  it  closely,  and  let  it  remain  near  the  fire  for  fifteen  minutes,  taking  care 
not  to  allow  the  jelly  to  boil.    Pass  it  through  the  bag  in  the  usual  way. 

INVALIDS'  CUTLET. 

Get  a  cutlet  from  the  loin  or  neclt  of  well-fed  mutton,  but  cut  away  all  the 
fat,  and  leave  nothing  but  the  lean,  which  put  into  a  stew-pan  with  just  enough 
water  to  cover  it,  and  a  very  little  salt;  stew  gently,  and  add  a  small  quantity 
of  celery  cut  into  thin  shavings.  Carefully  skim  off  any  fat  that  may  appear 
on  the  top,  and  when  it  has  stewed  about  two  hours,  without  boiling,  the  meat 
will  be  easy  of  digestion.  Add  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Time  to  stew  celery, 
thirty  to  thirty-five  minutes. 


INVALID   COOKERY.  329 

AliKOWROOT  rUDDING. 

Take  one  tablospoonful  of  arrowroot  and  one  half  pint  of  milk,  one  table- 
spoonful  of  which  add  cold  to  the  arrowroot,  stirring  it  until  it  is  well  mixed, 
then  boil  the  remainder  of  the  half  pint  of  milk,  sweeten  to  taste  with  loaf- 
sugar,  and  Avhile  it  is  boiling  hot,  add  it  by  degrees  to  the  arrowroot,  then  boil 
the  whole,  stirring  it  all  tlie  time,  until  it  becomes  thickened,  and  have  readj 
the  yolks  and  Avhites  of  six  eggs  beaten  together,  which  stir  into  it.  Put  all 
into  a  buttered  basin,  and  cover  with  paper;  then  steam  it  for  one  half  hour. 
A  padding  may  be  made  in  the  same  way,  baked  in  a  dish  with  a  liglit  crust 
around,  and  flavored  with  any  approved  ingredient. 

MINCED  CHICKEN. 

Take  the  breast  of  a  cold  roasted  chicken,  and  mince  it  finely;  add  one  half 
teaspoonful  of  fine  flour,  together  with  five  or  six  tablespoonfnls  of  broth; 
season  with  a  pinch  of  salt.    If  broth  is  not  at  hand,  substitute  new  milk. 

SCRAPED   BEEF. 

Take  a  good  piece  of  raw  steak,  lay  it  on  a  meat-board,  and  with  a  knife 
scrape  into  fine  bits:  after  removing  all  hard  and  gristly  parts,  put  it  into  a 
pan  over  the  fire,  and  let  it  remain  just  long  enough  to  become  thoroughly 
heated  through,  stirring  it  up  from  the  bottom  occasionally.  Season  with  a 
little  salt.  This  is  very  nutritious  and  quite  palatable.  As  a  food  for  infants 
this  is  unsurpassed.  It  should  be  fed  raw — in  quantities  of  one  half  teaspoon- 
ful at  a  time.  This,  in  connection  Avith  cod-liver  oil  as  a  tonic,  will  build  up  a 
child  in  delicate  health  who  is  unable  to  retain  milk  in  any  form.  It  should  be 
freslily  prepared  whenever  used. 

DRIED  FLOUR  FOR  INFANTS. 

Take  one  teacupful  of  flour,  tie  it  up  tightly  in  a  close  m'uslin  bag,  put  it 
into  a  pot  of  cold  water,  and  let  boil  tliree  hours;  then  take  it  out,  and  dry  the 
outside.  When  used,  remove  the  outer  skin,  and  grate  it.  One  tablespoouful 
is  enougli  for  one  teacupful  of  milk  (which  would  be  better  with  a  little  water); 
wet  the  flour  with  a  little  cold  Avater,  and  stir  into  the  milk;  add  a  very  little 
salt,  and  boil  five  minutes.  This  is  a  good  food  for  a  child  suffering  with 
summer  complaint  or  any  kind  of  loose  bowels. 

FLOUR  CAUDLE. 

Into  five  large  spoonfuls  of  water  rub  smooth  one  dessei't-spoonful  of  fine 
flour;  set  over  the  fire  five  spoonfuls  of  new  milk,  and  put  two  bits  of  sugar  into 
it;  the  moment  it  boils,  pour  into  it  the  flour  and  water,  and  stir  it  over  a  slow 
fire  twenty  minutes.  It  is  a  nourishing  and  gently  astringent  food.  This  is 
an  excellent  food  for  babies  who  have  weak  bowels. 

WHEY. 

That  of  cheese  is  a  very  wholesome  drink,  especially  when  the  cows  are  fresh 
in  herbage. 


330  INVALID    COOKERY. 

JUNKET. 

Take  one  tumblerful  of  sweet  milk  (not  cold),  add  enough  sugar  to  suit  the 
taste,  a  few  drops  of  essence  of  vanilla  and  one  tablespoonful  of  essence  of 
pepsin;  mix  well,  and  let  it  remain  in  a  Avarm  place  until  it  commences  to  thicken, 
then  put  on  ice,  and  serve  Avhen  thorough Ij'  cold. 

PEPTONIZED  MILK. 

Take  one  imported  quart  bottle  (champagne),  clean  it  thoroughly,  mix  two 
tubes  of  pepsin  in  one  fourth  of  a  teacupful  of  water,  put  it  into  the  bottle, 
and  fill  tlie  same  three  fourths  full,  shake  well,  cork,  and  fasten  the  cork  well. 
Have  a  pailful  of  hot  watei"— hot  enough  to  bear  your  hand  in — ready,  put  the 
bottle  into  it.  The  water  should  be  as  high  on  the  outside  of  the  bottle  as  the 
milk  on  the  inside.  Let  it  remain  there  for  fifteen  minutes;  then  put  the  bottle 
on  the  ice  at  once.  When  cold,  it  is  ready  for  use.  It  is  advisable  to  take  small 
doses  very  often.  • 

OPtGEAT. 

Beat  two  ounces  of  almonds,  with  one  teaspoonful  of  orange-flower  water 
and  a  bitter  almond  or  two;  then  pour  one  quart  of  milk  and  water  into  the 
paste.    Sweeten  with  sugar. 

SIPPETS. 

On  an  extremely  hot  plate  put  two  or  three  sippets  of  bread,  and  pour  over 
them  some  gravy  from  beef,  mutton  or  veal,  if  there  is  no  butter  in  the  dish. 
Sprinkle  a  little  salt  over  it. 


Chapter  XXI. 


BY    CHRISTIE    IRVING. 


All  good  housekeepers  know  the  advantage  to  be  derived  from  a  "good 
start"  in  the  morning.  To  insure  this,  make  all  preparations  for  breakfast  the 
evening  before.  Give  especial  attention  to  your  matcli-box,  kindling-basket  and 
coal-receiver;  and  if  all  things  are  ready,  it  will  take  but  a  short  time  to  have 
breakfast  ready. 

Never  use  the  first  water  that  comes  froni  a  pump  or  hydrant;  it  has  been 
in  a  lead  or  iron  pipe  all  night,  and  is  not  healthful. 

Much  hurry  and  confusion  would  be  prevented  if  housekeepers  would  do 
little  tedious  jobs  during  leisure  moments. 

Study  your  cook-book  as  you  would  any  other  lesson— not  at  the  very  moment 
you  Avish  to  use  it,  but  some  time  wlieu  you  are  sitting  down  for  an  hour's 
leisure  or  rest. 

All  groceries  and  household  supplies  should  be  put  away  in  their  own  proper 
receptacles,  and  not  left  standing  around  in  paper  bags.  Keep  rice,  oatmeal, 
cracked  wheat,  tapioca,  etc.,  in  closely  covered  glass  jars,  tea  and  coffee  in  tin 
canisters,  meal  and  flour  in  covered  wooden  buckets. 

Never  set  coal-oil  near  butter  or  lard. 

If  corn-meal  is  bought  by  the  quantity,  it  should  be  spread  out  up®n  an  old 

sheet  in  a  room  where  the  air  passes,  and  thoroughly  dried  before  putting  it 

away,  to  keep  it  from  getting  musty. 

331 


S32  Practical  SUGfiESTiONS  fo  young  housekeepers. 

When  you  buy  raisins  for  cooliing  purposes,  seed  them,  wash,  and  thoroughly 
dry  thorn,  and  put  into  glass  jars  with  tight  lids;  currants  also.  If  you  prefer, 
you  can  buy  the  seedless  raisins,  but  they  are  a  little  more  expensive. 

During  the  oyster  season  always  have  rolled  cracliers  ready.  You  can  save 
the  crushed  crackers  and  crumbs  from  your  cracliers  in  a  glass  jar,  and  so 
avoid  using  your  whole  ones. 

It  is  best  to  buy  hominy,  beans,  rice,  etc.,  in  quantities. 

Five  or  six  quarts  of  biscuit-flour  can  be  prepared  at  a  time  by  taking  one 
teaspoonful  of  soda  and  tAvo  of  cream  of  tartar,  or  three  of  baking-powder,  to 
every  quart  of  flour,  sifting  it  thoroughly  three  times,  and  put  away  for  use. 

Burn  all  egg-shells,  coffee-grounds,  sweepings,  etc. 

If  you  keep  chickens,  cook  all  your  vegetable  parings,  and  feed  them;  if  not, 
burn  them. 

Never  throw  tin  cans  into  the  alley  or  street.  Wash  them,  and  set  aside  for 
use.    They  will  often  be  handy. 

Never  set  aside  a  bottle  dirty.  Wash  clean,  and  turn  with  the  neck  down, 
that  it  may  dry,  and  no  dust  be  in  it  when  you  want  it. 

Never  wrap  steel  or  silver  in  a  woolen  cloth;  use  soft  tissue-paper. 

Never  let  any  kind  of  food  remain  in  copper  or  brass  vessels  after  it  is 
cooked. 

Never  wash  your  rolling-pin.  Scrape  off  the  dough  that  adheres,  and  wipe 
with  a  dry  towel. 

In  cleaning  any  vessel  in  which  strong-smelling  vegetables  have  been  cooked, 
use  half  a  teaspoonful  of  soda  in  a  little  hot  water,  washing  it  well  afterward 
in  hot  soap-suds. 

A  brass  kettle  can  be  cleaned,  if  discolored  by  cooking  in  it,  by  scouring  it 
well  with  soap  and  ashes  first,  then  put  in  half  a  pint  of  vinegar  and  a  handful 
of  salt,  and  let  them  boil  on  the  stove  a  short  time;  then  wash,  and  rinse  it  out 
in  hot  water. 

Never  use  a  metal  spoon  for  stirring  stew^ed  fruit  or  tomatoes.  A  wooden 
one  is  best,  and  those  with  short  handles  are  preferable  for  stirring  tliick 
messes. 

Never  let  the  handles  of  knives  be  put  into  hot  water.  If  possible,  buy  silver 
knives  when  you  begin  your  housekeeping.  You  will  not  find  it  an  extravagance 
in  the  end. 

Never  allow  your  carving-knife  to  be  used  to  cut  bread;  provide  a  separate 
knife. 

Never  throw  water  on  burning  oil;  use  flour. 

If  your  clothes  take  fire,  do  not  run  about,  but  lie  doAvn,  and  roll  over  and 
over  until  the  flame  is  smothered. 

Never  buy  sweet  potatoes  in  large  quantities. 

Always  keep  a  stick  wrapped  with  old  muslin  to  grease  hot  pans  and  all 
baking-tins. 

Always  put  your  griddle-cake  batter  into  a  pitcher,  and  pour  it  out  to  bake. 

Old  bleached  muslin  is  ®f  no  use  except  for  carpet-rags.  They  will  not  do 
for  dusters,  as  they  will  not  hold  dust,  nor  for  cleaning,  as  they  will  not  absorb 
moisture,  while  old  unbleached  stuff;  does  nicely. 

For  dish-towels  some  use  crash,  Avhich  should  be  of  the  very  best  quality, 


PRACTICAL   SUGGESTIONS   TO    YOUNG   HOUSEKEEPERS.  333 

though  old  drilliug  or  a  poor  quality  of  titkius  makes  better  ones;  and  many 
ladies  prefer  a  light-weight  uubleaehed  muslin,  as  a  cotton  cloth  does  not 
leave  the  lint  that  liuen  does  Avhen  a  little  worn.  ' 

For  dish-rags  buy  white  mosquito-netting— a  quarter  of  a  yai'd  is  sufficient 
for  one — which  should  be  folded  back  and  forth  as  many  times  as  the  width 
will  allow,  and  tack  as  a  eomfoit.  Some  make  them  of  a  ball  of  candle-wick, 
knit  on  two  wooden  needles  the  size  of  a  lead-pencil.  Set  up  twenty  stitches. 
Knit  in  plain  garter  knitting  until  the  ball  is  used  up.  These  are  easily  kept 
clean  if  washed  in  hot  soap-suds  after  each  meal;  also  wash  tlie  dish-towels  at 
the  same  time.    A  half  dozen  ai"e  quite  sufficient. 

Provide  also  several  soft  holders  to  use  in  talcing  up  liot  dishes;  these  should 
be  made  six  inches  by  eight,  slightly  caught  through  and  a  brass  ring  in  one 
corner  to  hang  upon  a  nail  close  to  the  stove.  Old  stockings  are  good  for  this, 
or  two  thicknesses  of  pants  cloth. 

Evi'ry  housekeeper  should  provide  herself  with  little  conveniences  for  doing 
her  work.  A  short-handled,  broad  paint-brush  to  wash  the  outside  of  window- 
sills,  and  an  old  tooth-brush  for  washing  around  the  glass. 

Begin  housekeeping  on  the  cash  basis.  If  you  cannot  pay  cash  for  an  article, 
do  not  get  it. 

Among  the  first  tilings  yon  learn  to  do,  let  it  be  your  own  marketing. 

Every  wife  should  have  a  certain  weekly  allowance  to  use  for  household 
expenses. 

Have  a  flour-sack  in  which  to  put  all  clippings  from  sewing,  all  waste  paper, 
etc.,  which  save  to  dispose  of  to  the  ragman  for  articles  you  need. 

Save  yourself  steps  by  having  a  broom,  dust-pan  and  dusters  up-stairs  to  do 
the  chamber  work. 

Have  all  new  steel  knives  well  sharpened,  also  chopping-knives;  use  these 
only  in  the  kitchen.  Time  is  saved  by  using  silver-plated  ones  on  the  dining- 
table. 

A  rubber  window-cleaner  is  a  very  convenient  article  to  have;  also  a  hair- 
brush for  outside  cleaning. 

.Tellj'-bags  are  made  of  flannel. 

If  possible,  have  your  kitchen  table  made  to  order,  with  an  ash  top  and  three 
deep  drawers— two  in  partitions. 

Ticking  makes  the  nicest  kitchen  aprons.  Some  prefer  ginghams  or  denim. 
Large,  plain  white  ones,  to  reach  to  the  bottom  of  the  dress,  should  always  be 
ready  to  put  on  when  going  to  the  table,  or  to  tie  quickly  over  the  other  if 
called  to  the  door. 

If  ladyfingers  are  wanted,  get  special  tins  to  bake  them  the  proper  shape. 

Bread-crusts  should  be  dried  in  the  oven,  and  put  away  in  paper  bags  until 
wanted  for  use. 

India-rubber  gloves  are  used  by  many  ladies  for  washing  dishes,  as  the  hot, 
soapy  water  is  very  injurious  to  some  skins,  also  causing  some  finger-nails  to 
split  and  get  sore.  These  would  seem  an  extravagance  at  first,  but  are  not  if 
looked  upon  as  a  preservative  for  the  hands;  and  it  is  right  to  take  as  good 
care  of  one's  self  in  every  way  possible. 

After  washing  the  hands,  dip  them  in  weak  vinegar-water  before  wiping 
them.    This  will  keep  them  nice,  and  often  prevent  chapping. 


834  PRACTICAL   SL^GGBSTIOlfS   TO   YOUNG   HOtTSEKEEPERS. 

The  best  china  aud  ghxss  are  the  c-heapest,  even  for  every-day  use,  if  the 
outlay  can  be  afforded,  as  they  are  annealed  before  leaving  the  manufacturers' 
hands,  and  may  be  washed  in 'boiling  water  without  injury,,  and  do  not  crack 
and  chip  from  usage  like  the  common  ware.  China  and  glass  should  be  gently 
washed  in  hot  water  Avith  a  little  soap,  rinsed  in  cold  water,  aud  carefully 
Wiped  with  a  clean,  soft  towel.  All  articles  with  gilding  must  be  handled  with 
great  care,  never  rubbed  or  polished  if  the  gilding  becomes  tarnished;  chamois- 
skin,  with  a  little  whiting  on  it,  may  be  used  to  polish  it. 

When  warming  plates  and  dishes  for  meats,  extreme  caution  must  be  used 
to  prevent  them  getting  hot,  as  heat  cracks  the  glazing,  and  if  it  does  not  show 
at  the  time,  it  will  soon  crack  or  break. 

Cut  glass  will  not  look  clear  unless  washed  in  very  hot  water,  but  does  not 
require  soap.  If  it  is  in  any  way  blurred  or  tarnished,  it  must  be  cleaned  with 
a  soft  brush  dipped  in  whiting,  and  then  polished  Avith  a  soft  piece  of  news- 
paper; this  gives  it  a  brilliant,  clear  appearance,  and  no  lint  remains  as  when 
rubbed  with  a  linen  towel. 


^1  \  11    ^\\^ 


SUNDAY. 
Tongue. 
Lettuce,  with  Eggs.  Saratoga  Potatoes. 

Currant  Jelly.  Pickles. 

Tea  or  Coffee. 


Canned  Corn. 
Peach  Pie. 


MONDAY. 

Roast  Beef. 

Parsnips.  Potatoes  (baked  with  the  meat).  Spinach. 

Apples.  Baked  Custard.  Raisins. 

Nuts.  Coffee. 


TUESDAY. 

Roast  Lamb,  with  Caper  Sauce. 

Peas.  Potatoes  (mashed,  and  browned  in  oven).  Cresses. 

Canned  Peaches.  Tapioca  Pudding,  Hard  Sauce.  Chocolate  Cake. 

Coffee.  Nuts. 

335 


336  BILL   OF    FARE    FOR   FAMILY    DINNER. 

WEDNESDAY. 

Breaded  Veal. 

Baked  Corn.  Mashed  Potatoes.  Cold  Slaw. 

Steamed  Peach  Dumplings. 

Chocolate.  Cake.  Confectionery. 


THURSDAY. 

Stewed  Veal.  .    Potatoes. 

Carrots.  Vegetable  Rice.  Chocolate. 

Tapioca  Pudding.  Sponge-cake. 


FRIDAY. 

Corned  Beef.  Potatoes   (wkole). 

Turnips.  Apple  Sago.  Carrots  and  Rice. 


SATURDAY. 

Fried  Chicken,  Cream  Gravy. 

Macaroni.  Mashed  Potatoes.  Asparagus. 

Lettuce.  Cheese.  Currant  Jelly. 

Pound-cake.  Ice-cream  Meringues.  Apple  Pie.  Coffee. 


A  WHITE   DINNER. 

Codfish. 

Macaroni,  with  Cheese. 

Water-cresses.  Mashed  Potatoes.  Rice  Pudding. 


BILLS   OF    FARE. 


337 


BILLS  OF  FARE  FOR  SPECIAL  DAYS. 


NEW-YEAR'S  DINNER. 

Soup. 

Oysters.  Wafers. 

Turkey,  with  Cranberries. 

Mashed  Potatoes.  Sweet  Potatoes. 

Hubbard  Squash. 

Pickled  Watermelon.  Gooseberry  Catsup. 

Cold  Slaw.  Onions. 

Apple  Pie.  Grated  Cheese. 

Coffee.  Milk.  Tea.  Chocolate. 

Nuts.  Raisins.  Figs. 


THANKSGIVING    DINNER. 

Oyster  Soup. 

Crackers.  Pickles 

Roast  Turkey,  with  Cranberries. 

Chicken  Pie. 

Turnips.  Mashed  Potatoes  (browned).  Onions. 

Squash.  Celery. 

Mince  Pie.  Pumpkin  Pie.  Cheese. 

Chocolate.  Cake. 

Ice-cream. 

Raisins.  Nuts. 


CHRISTMAS    DINNER. 

Soup. 

Turkey,  with  Oyster  Dressing. 

Turnips.  Mashed  Potatoes.  Sauer-kraut. 

Boiled  Sweet  Corn. 

Cranberries.  Plum  Sauce. 

Mince  Pie.  Cheese.  Custard  Pie. 

Tea.  Coffee.  Chocolate. 

Nuts.  Bonbons. 


338  STATE    DINNERS, 

DINNER  TO  THE   SUPREME  COURT, 
AT  THE   WHITE   HOUSE. 

February  1,  1894. 


Blue  Points. 

Bisque  of  Crabs  aux  Quenelles. 

Chicken  Consomme  Royal  aux  Perles. 


Hors-d'oeuvres. 


Fish. 

Cassolettes  des  Gourmets  Bechamel 

Escallops  of  Bass  en  Bordure. 


RELEVEES. 
Fillet  of  Beef,  Larded,  Braise,  Madeira  Sauce. 
Fonds  d'Artichauts  and  Champignons  Farces. 


ENTREES. 

Petites  Timbales  de  Macaroni  (Puree  of  Grouse). 

Sauce  Supreme  aux  Truffes. 


Terrapin  Maryland  Style. 


Cotelettes  of  Poulardes  a  la  Demidoff. 


Punch  Glace. 


Cold  Dish — Chaudfroid  de  Reed  Birds  a  la  Gelee. 

Roast — Canvasback  Duck. 

Water-cress  and  Tomato  Salad. 


Fruits  Glaces. 

Paniers  Garnis,  Varies. 

Ice-cream. 

Amandes  Salees. 

Petits  Fours. 

Two  Pieces  Nougat  Garnies,  Historiees. 

Coffee 

Paul  Resal,  Chef  of  White  House  (.Executive  Mansion),  Washington,  D.  C. 


STATE   DINNERS.  839 

DINNER  TO   MEMBERS   OF  THE   CABINET, 
AT  THE   WHITE   HOUSE. 

January  18.  1894. 

Blue  Points. 

Creme  de  Volaille  aux  Quenelles. 

Green  Turtle. 


Cannelons,  Puree  de  Gibier. 


Fillet  of  Striped  Bass  a  la  Cardinale. 


Selle  de  Chevreuil,  Sauce  Poivrade. 
Puree  de  Marrons  Croutonnee. 


Mousse  de  Chapon  a  la  Perigord. 
Sauce  Supreme. 


Terrapin  a  la  Maryland. 


Game  Pie  a  la  Cleveland. 


imperial  Punch. 


Roast  Canvasback  Duck,  Molded  Cranberry. 
Tomato  and  Lettuce  Mayonnaise. 


Cheese  and  Crackers. 


Glaces  Varies. 


Cafe. 

Two  Pieces  Montees. 

Petits  Fours. 

Amandes  Salees. 

Fruit  Glaces. 

Paul  Resal,  Chef  of  White  House  (Executive  Mansion),  Washington,  D.  C. 


340  STATE   DINNERS. 

DINNER   SERVED   IN    PARIS, 

IN  THE  LEGATION  OF  THE  UNITED  STATES, 

TO   MINISTERS   OF  ALL   NATIONS. 


Creme  d'Asperges. 
Printanier  Royal. 


Croustades  de  Crevettes. 
Bouchees  Lucullus. 


Saumon,  Sauce  Venitienne. 
Timbale  de  Laitauce  de  Carpe. 


Fillet  de  Boeuf,  Richelieu. 


Mousse  de  Tambon  a  la  L.  P.  Morton. 


Cailles  aux  Laitues. 


Galatine  d'Anguilles  en  Bellevue. 


Poularde  du  Mans  Truffee. 


Sarcelles  Roties. 


Salades  Suedoises. 
Asperges  en  Branche. 


Corbeille  de  Fruits  Glaces, 
Gateaux  des  Ties. 


Cafe. 


Paul  Resal.  Chef  of  White  House  (Executive  Mansion),  Washington,  D.  C. 


Glossary  of  Cooking  Terms. 


Asjvc.—K  savory  jelly  of  meat. 

AssicUi's.—iimaW  entrees  not  more  than  a 
plate  will  contain. 

All  Bleu.— A  French  term  ajDplied  to  fish 
boiled  in  white  wine  witli  flavor. 

Au  Cr?'a*.— Dressed  witli  meat  gravy. 

Au  Ju.s.—ln  the  natural  juice  or  gravy. 

All  JVatwel.—Pl{^i^^,  simple  cookery. 

Baba.— Very  light  plum  cake,  or  sweet, 
French  yeast  cake. 

Bain-marie.— An  open  vessel  which  has  a 
loose  bottom  for  the  reception  of  hot  water. 
It  is  used  to  keep  sauces  nearly  at  the  boil- 
ing-point without  reduction  or  burning. 

Barbecue.— To  roast  whole. 

Barde.—A  thin  slice  of  bacon-fat  placed 
over  any  substance  specially  requiring  the 
assistance  of  fat  without  larding. 

Batlerie  de  C'amne.— Complete  set  of  cook- 
ing apparatus. 

Bavaroise  a  Teau.— Tea  sweetened  with 
syrup  of  capillaire,  and  flavored  with  a  little 
orange-flower  water. 

Bavaroise  an  Laii— Made  in  the  same  way  as 
the  above,  but  with  equal  quantities  of  milk 
and  tea. 

Bcchamel.—A  rich  white  French  sauce. 

Beignet,  or  Fritter.— {See  fritter.) 

Bisque.— A  soup  made  of  shell-flsh. 

Blanc— White  broth,  used  to  give  a  more 
delicate  appearance  to  the  flesh  of  fowl, 
lamb,  etc. 

Blanch.— Piacing  anj'thing  on  the  flre  in 
cold  water  until  it  boils,  and  after  straining 
it  off",  plunging  it  into  cold  water  for  the 
purpose  of  rendering  it  white.  Used  to 
whiten  poultry,  vegetables,  etc. 


341 


Blanquette.—A  fricassee  usually  made  of 
thin  slices  of  white  meat,  with  white  sauce 
thickened  witii  egg  yolk. 

Blonde  de  ffOM.— Double  veal  broth  used  to 
enrich  soups  and  sauces. 

Boerguingote.—A  ragout  of  truflles. 

Boudin.—A  delicate  compound  made  of 
quenelle  forcemeat. 

Bonifli.—Beet  which  has  been  boiled  in 
making  l)roth. 

Boiiillie.—A  French  dish  resembling  that 
called  hasty  pudding. 

Bmiillon.— The  common  soup  of  France. 

Bouquet  &'««(«.— The  same  thing  as  fagot, 
which  see. 

Bouquet  o///«te.— Parsley,  thyme  and  green 
onions  tied  together. 

Braise.— Meat  cooked  in  a  closely  covered 
stew-pan  to  prevent  evaporation,  so  that  the 
meat  retains  not  only  its  own  juices,  but 
those  of  any  other  article,  such  as  bacon, 
herbs,  roots  and  spices  put  with  it. 

Braisiere.—A  saucepan  with  ledges  to  the 
lid  so  that  it  will  contain  flring. 

Brider.— To  truss  fowls  with  a  needle  and 
thread. 

Brioche.— A  sponge-cake  similar  to  Bath 
buns. 

Buisson.—A  cluster  or  bush  of  small  pastry 
piled  on  a  dish. 

Callipash. — The  glutinous  portion  of  the 
turtle  found  in  the  upper  shell. 

Callipee.~The  glutinous  meat  of  the  turtle's 
under  shell. 

Cannelo7is.Sma\l  rolls  or  collars  of  mince- 
meat, or  of  rice  and  pastry  with  fruit. 

Capilotade.—A  hash  of  poultry. 


342 


GLOSSARY   OP   COOKING   TERMS. 


Casserole.— The  form  of  rice  to  be  filled  with 
a  fricassee  of  white  meat  or  a  puree  of  game; 
also  a  stew-pao. 

Civet.— A  darii,  thickish  stew  of  hare  or 
venison. 

Com^negne.Sweet  French  yeast  cake,  with 
fruit. 

Compote.— Fruits  stewed  in  sj'rup.  There 
are  also  compotes  of  small  birds. 

Cori/iZM?-es.— Sweetmeats  of  sugars,  fruits, 
syrups  and  essences. 

Consomme.— Strong,  clear  gravy  obtained  by 
stewing  meat  a  considerable  length  of  time. 

Coulis.—A  rich,  smooth  gravy  used  for  col- 
oring, flavoring  and  thickening  certain 
soups  and  sauces. 

Couronne,  En.— To  serve  any  prescribed  arti- 
cle on  a  dish  in  the  form  of  a  crown. 

Croquant.—A  kind  of  paste  or  cake. 

Croquettes.— A  savory  mince  of  fish,  meat  or 
fowl,  made  with  a  little  sauce  into  various 
shapes,  rolled  in  egg  and  bread-crumbs,  and 
fried  crisp. 

Croustacles.— Also  known  as  Dresden  pat- 
ties. They  are  composed  of  mince  incased 
in  paste,  and  molded  into  various  forms. 

Croustades.— Fried  forms  of  bread  to  serve 
minces  or  other  meats  upon. 

Crouton.— A  sippet  of  bread,  fried,  and  used 
for  garnish. 

Cuisine  Masqriee.-Righiy  seasoned  or  usual- 
ly raixed  dishes. 

Cuisson.— Method  of  cooking  meats,  or  the 
liquor  in  which  they  have  been  boiled. 

Cwj-ried.— Flavored  with  curry-powder. 

Dariole.—A  sweet  pate  baked  in  a  mold. 

Z>me6e.— Meat  or  fowl  stewed  in  sauce. 

Daubiere. — An  oval  stew-pan. 

Desosser.— To  bone. 

Beviled.-Jlighiy  seasoned. 

Diced.— Cut  in  cubes. 

Z)orM?-e.— Yolks  of  eggs,  well  beaten,  for  cov- 
ering meat  and  other  dishes. 

Entree. — A  corner  dish  for  the  flrst  course. 

Entremet.— A  side-dish  for  the  second  course. 

Escalopes.— Coliops. 

Espagnole.—A  rich  brown  Spanish  sauce. 

Fagot.— A  small  bunch  of  parsley  and 
thyme  tied  up  with  a  bay-leaf. 

J?'a?-ce.— Forcemeat. 

Feuilletage.—VxxS  paste. 

Financiere.— An  expensive,  highly  flavored 
mixed  ragout. 

Flamber.— To  singe  fowl  or  game  after 
picking. 

Flan.— A  French  custard. 

Flancs.— The  side-dishes  of  large  dinners. 

i^'tewr.— Cases  made  of  a  particular  kind  of 
short  crust,  either  sweets  or  second-course 
savories. 


Foncer.— To  put  into  the  bottom  of  a  sauce- 
pan thin  slices  of  veal  or  bacon. 

Fondue.— A  light  and  pleasant  preparation 
of  cheese. 

Fricandeaux.-'MaLy  be  made  of  any  boned 
pieces  of  veal,  chiefly  cut  from  the  thick  part 
of  the  flllet,  and  of  not  more  than  two  or 
three  pounds  weight. 

Fricassee. — Chickens,  etc.,  cut  into  pieces  in 
a  white  sauce,  with  truffles,  mushrooms,  etc., 
as  accessories. 

Fritler.—Anything  incased  in  a  covering  of 
batter  or  eggs,  and  fried. 

Galantine.— Meat  freed  from  bones,  tied  up 
in  a  cloth  and  boiled,  and  served  cold. 

Gateau. — A  pudding  or  baked  cake. 

Gauffres.—A  light,  spongy  sort  of  biscuit. 

Gtace.— Stock  boiled  down  to  the  thickness 
of  Jelly,  and  used  to  improve  the  appearance 
of  braised  dishes. 

Godiveaux.—y  arioxxs  varieties  of  force- 
meats. 

Gras.—With,  or  of,  meat;  the  reverse  of 
maigre. 

Gratin,  or  Au  Gratin. — A  term  applied  to  cer- 
tain dishes  prepared  with  sauce,  and  baked. 

Gratiner.— To  cook  like  a  grill. 

Gutnbo.—0\ir&. 

Haricot— So  called  from  the  French  word 
for  beans,  with  which  the  dish  was  originally 
made.  Now  understood  as  any  thick  stew, 
or  ragout  of  mutton,  beef  or  veal,  cut  into 
pieces  and  dressed  with  vegetables  and  roots. 

Hatelet. — A  small  silver  skewer. 

Hors-d'ceuvres.Sm&\\  dishes  of  sardines, 
anchovies  and  other  relishes. 

iardmzere.— Vegetables  stewed  down  in 
their  own  sauce. 

Lardon.— The  piece  of  bacon  used  in  lard- 
ing. 

Liaison.— The  mixture  of  egg  and  cream 
used  to  thicken  white  soups,  etc. 

Lit.— Th\v\  slices  in  layers. 

Luting.— A  paste  to  fasten  lids  on  pie-pans 
for  preserving  game. 

Macedoine.—A  garnish  of  vegetables  of  va- 
rious kinds,  a  mixture  of  fruits  of  di3Ferent 
sorts,  dusted  with  sugar  and  tossed  in  a  little 
wine  or  liquoi*. 

Madeleines. SmaW  plum  cakes. 

Maigre.— Without  meat. 

Marinade.— The  liquor  in  which  flsh  or 
meat  is  steeped. 

Mask.— To  cover  meat  with  any  rich  sauce, 
ragout,  etc. 

Mayonnaise.— Cold  sauce  or  salad  dressing. 

Mazarines,  or  rwrbans.— Ornamental  entrees 
of  forcemeat  and  fillets  of  poultry,  game  or 
fisli. 

Menu.— The  bill  of  fare. 


GLOSSARY    OF   COOKING    TERMS. 


343 


Merinffue.—Jjighi  pastry  made  of  sugar  and 
the  whites  of  eggs,  beaten  to  "snow." 

Mir/nonctte  Fcppcr.— Coarsely  ground  pep- 
percorns. 

Miroton.—fimaU,  thin  slices  of  meat  about 
as  large  as  a  silver  dollar,  made  into  ragouts 
of  various  kinds,  and  dished  up  in  a  circular 
form. 

Mouiller.— To  add  broth,  water  or  other 
liquid  while  the  cooking  is  proceeding. 

JS^ougat.— Almond  candy. 

Nouilles.— Strips  of  paste  made  of  eggs  and 
flour. 

/•anada.— Soaked  bread  used  in  the  prep- 
aration of  French  forcemeat. 

Pancr.— To  cover  with  bread-crunabs,  fried, 
or  baked  food. 

Papillole,  En.— The  pieces  of  paper  greased 
with  oil  and  butter,  and  fastened  around  a 
cutlet,  etc.,  by  twisting  it  along  the  edge. 

Pate.— A  sm.all  pie. 

Paupietles.Sllcea  of  meat  rolled. 

Piece  cle  Hcsistance. —The  principal  joint  of 
the  dinner. 

PiUm.—A  dish  of  meat  and  rice. 

Piquer.— To  lard  with  strips  of  bacon-fat, 
etc. 

i^e^ee.— Stock  for  boiling  turkeys,  fowls, 
vegetables,  instead  of  water,  so  as  to  render 
them  less  insipid. 

Potofifc— Soup. 

Printanicrs.—E,&r\y  spring  vegetables. 

ProfltcroUes.—Ughi  pastry,  creamed  inside. 

P(»-ee.— The  name  given  to  a  soup  the  ingre- 
dients for  thickening  which  have  been 
passed  through  a  sieve,  then  thinned  witli 
broth  to  the  proper  consistency.  Meat  and 
tish  are  cooked,  and  pounded  in  a  mortar, 
roots  and  vegetables  are  stewed  until  soft  in 
order  to  prepare  them  for  being  thus  con- 
verted into  a  smooth  pulp. 

Quenelles.— Forceme-Al  of  various  kinds 
composed  of  fish  ormeat,  with  bread,  yolk  of 
egg  and  some  kind  of  fat,  seasoned  in  differ- 
ent ways,  formed  with  a  spoon  to  an  oval 
shape,  then  poached  in  stock  and  used  either 
as  garnish  to  entrees,  or  served  separately. 


Pagovi.—A  rich  sauce,  with  sweetbreads, 
mushrooms,  truffles,  etc.,  in  it. 

lielevccs.— The  remove  dishes. 

Hemoulade.SsA-AA  dressing. 

Rifaciinenlo.—'M.esii  dressed  a  second  time. 

Rissole.— A  mince  of  fish  or  meat  inclosed 
in  paste,  or  formed  into  balls  and  other 
shapes.  Used  either  as  side-dishes  or  garnish. 
(See  also  fricassee.) 

i?o<i.— Roast  meat. 

lioux.—A  mixture  composed  of  butter  and 
flour  used  for  thickening  white  soups  and 
gravy. 

Salmi.— A  hash  of  game  cut  up  and  dressed 
when  only  half  roasted. 

8ant<m.—To  dress  witli  sauce  iu  the  sauce- 
pan by  keeping  it  in  motion. 

Sauce  Piquante.—A  sharp  sauce  in  which 
lemon  and  vinegar  predominate  as  a  flavor. 

Sautc-jKin.-A  thin-bottomed,  shallow  pan 
for  quick  frying. 

Sauter.— To  toss  over  tlie  fire  in  a  saute-pan 
with  a  small  quantitj-  of  f;it  only. 

Serviette,  a  ?«.— Served  in  a  napkin. 

Sippets.SmaM  pieces  of  bread  cut  into 
various  shapes,  either  soaked  in  stock, 
toasted  or  fried,  to  serve  with  meats  as  gar- 
nishing or  borders. 

Souffle.— A  light  pudding. 

Stock.— The  brotli  of  which  soups  are  made. 

Tammy,  or  Tamis.—A  strainer  made  of  fine 
woolen  canvas  used  for  straining  soups  and 
sauces. 

Timbale.—A  sort  of  pie  madQ  in  a  mold. 

Tourte.—A  tart  baked  in  a  shallow  tin. 

Trifle.— A  second-course  dish,  made  of 
sponge-cake,  macaroons,  jams,  etc. 

Troii.Hser.-To  truss  a  bird. 

Turbans.— (See  mazarines.) 
Vanncr,  To.— To  make  a  sauce  smooth   by 
rapidly  lifting  it  high  in  large  spoonfuls,  and 
allowing  it  to  fall  quickly  again  for  some 
time. 

Veloute. —"Rich  sauce  used  to  heighten  the 
flavor  of  soups  and  made  dishes. 

Vol-au-veni.—A  light  pufT  paste,  cut  round 
or  oval,  iuclosiug  any  delicate  mince-meat. 


'^3^&rX< 


'SP^i, 


^j::f 


The  following  suggestions  may  not  be  out  of  place  concerning  the  treatment 
of  new  coolving-uteusils: 

Iron  pots  should  always  be  boiled  out  first  with  wood  ashes  and  cold  water, 
then  thoroughly  washed,  and  they  are  ready  for  use.  Skillets,  griddles,  iron 
gem-pans  and  waffle-irons  should  be  well  greased,  and  allowed  to  burn  otf  once 
or  twice  before  using. 

Sheet-iron  pans  for  cake  and  bread  are  preferable  to  tin. 

Earthen  and  stone  Avare  jars  or  crocks  should  be  filled  with  cold  water,  and 
put  over  a  slow  fire,  and  allowed  to  come  to  a  boil  once  or  twice  before  using 
to  cook  in. 

In  washing  greasy  skillets,  the  addition  of  a  little  soda  to  the  first  water  will 
neutralize  the  grease  and  make  it  much  easier  to  clean.  These  are  best  cleaned 
when  hot. 

Always  keep  the  inside  of  your  coffee-pot  bright  to  insure  good  coffee.  Boil 
it  out  occasionally  with  soap,  water  and  wood  ashes  and  scour  thoroughly. 

All  bottles  and  cruets  are  best  cleaned  with  shot  and  soap-suds.  Save  the 
shot  in  a  small  bottle  to  use  again. 

Where  sand  cannot  be  obtained,  bath  brick  can  be  used  to  scrub  Avooden 
articles,  tables,  floors,  etc. 

In  lime-water  localities,  keep  an  oyster-shell  in  your  tea-kettle  to  receive  the 
lime  deposits,  or  egg-shells. 

Have  a  folding  rack  to  screw  against  a  window-frame  or  near  the  stove  to 
dry  the  dish-towels  on. 

A  small  folding  table  to  use  as  a  side-table  is  a  great  convenience  when 
your  family  is  larger  than  common. 

344 


ifEC^SSARY    KITCHilN    UTENSILS. 


345 


Apple-corer 

Aprons,  6 

Ash-bucket  (tin  or  iron) 

Basltets,  3 

Beefstealc-pounder 

Biscuit-cutter 

Bowls,  2 

Bread-box 

Bread-pans,  3 

Brooms,  2 

Cal<e-i'utter,  2  shapes 

Caltc-pans,  2  sizes 

Cake-turner 

Candlesticlis,  2 

Can-opener 

Chopping-knife 

Clock 

Coal-hod 

Coal -tongs 

Coffee-canister 

Coffee-mill 

Coffee-pot,  tin 

Corkscrew 

Dish-pans,  2  sizes 

Disli-rags,  3 

Dish-towels,  G 

Double    Kettle    for    cooking 

grains 
Dredging-boxes,     3,     labeled 

salt,  sugar,  flour 
Drippers,  2 
Dripping-pans,  3;    1   large,  2 

small 
Dusters 
Dust-pans,  2 
Egg-beater 
Egg- poacher 
Fish-kettle  (a  luxury) 
Flour-scoop 
Flour-sieve 
Forks,  3  small    two-tined,  1 

meat-fork,  1  toaster 


Funnels,  2;  large  and  small 

Gem-iron 

Glass  Funnel 

Graters,  2;  large  and  small 

Griddle 

Gridiron 

Hammers,  2 

Hand-towels,  6 

Hatchet 

High  Stool 

India-rubber  Gloves 

Jars,  3  one-gallon 

Jelly- bags 

Jelly-cake  Tins,  4 

Jelly- mold 

Jugs,  3 

Kettle,  1  porcelain 

Kettles,  3  iron  ;  small,  medium, 

large 
Kitchen  Chairs,  3 
Kitchen  Tables,  2 
Knives;  1  shoe,  3  case,  1  bread, 

1  cliopping,  1  carver 
Ladles,  3;  1  perforated 
Lantern 

Lemon-squeezer 
Match-box 
Meat- board 
Meat-cleaver 
Meat-saw 
Milk-pans 
Mouse-trap' 
Movable  Sink 
Muffin-rings,  1  dozen 
Mustard-pot 
Nutmeg-grater 
Patty- pans 
Pepper-box 
Pie-board 
Pie-crimper 
Pie-pans,  4 
Porcelain  Saucepan 


Potato-masher 

Potato-slicer 

Pot-cleaner 

Pudding-mold 

Refrigerator 

Rolling-pins,  2;  1  glass 

Rubber  Window-cleaner 

Salt-box 

Scrubbing-brush 

Shovel 

Sieve,  wire-basket 

Skillets,  3;  2  iron,  1  sheet-iron, 
long  handle 

Slaw-cutter 

Spice- box 

Spoons;  2  long-handled  iron,  2 
short-handled  large  wooden 

Stand  to  put  under  roast  meat 

Steamer 

Step-ladder 

Stove 

Sugar-box  and  Scoop 

Tea-canister 

Tea-kettle 

Tin  Bread-box 

Tin  Cake-box 

Tin  Pails,  2 

Tin  Pail,  two-quart 

Tin  Pint 

Tin  Quart 

Tubs,  2  small 

Waffle-ii'on 

Wash-keeler 

Whisk-broom 

Wire  Basket  for  boiling  vegeta- 
bles 

Wire  Screens,  assorted  sizes 

Wire  Strainer 

Wire  Toaster 

Wooden  Bowl 

Wooden  Buckets,  2;  1  cedar 

Wooden  Starch-box 


NAPERY. 


Dinner  napkins  slioukl  be  about  twenty-eight  inches  broad  and  thirty  inches 
long.  They  may  be  folded  in  a  variety  of  ways,  which  impart  a  style  to  a  table 
Avithout  adding  much  to  the  expense,  and  may  be  readily  accomplished  with  a 
little  practice  and  attention  to  the  following  directions  and  diagrams: 

THE  EXQUISITE.— Fig.  1. 

Fold  the  napkin  into  three  parts  longways,  then  fold  down  two  fifths  of  the 
length  from  each  side  as  in  Fig.  2  at  a;  roll  up  the  part  b  toward  the  back, 


Fig.  2. 

repeat  on  the  other  side,  then  turn  up  the  corner  toward  the  corner  a,  and  it 
will  appear  as  d.  The  center  part,  e,  is  now  to  be  turned  up  at  the  bottom  and 
down  at  the  top,  and  the  two  rolls  brought  under  the  center  piece,  as  in  Fig. 
1.    The  bread  is  placed  under  the  center  band,  k,  Fig.  1. 

THE  CINDERELLA.— Fig.  3. 

Fold  the  napkin  into  three  parts  longways,  then  turn  down  the  two  sides 
as  in  Fig  12;  turn  the  napkin  over  and  roll  up  the  lower  part  as  in  Fig  4,  a,  b. 
Now  turn  the  corner  b  upward  toward  c,  so  that  it  shall  appear  as  in  d;  repeat 

346 


NAPERY. 


347 


on  the  other  side,  and  then  brinp:  the  two  parts  e  together  so  that  they  shall 
bend  at  the  dotted  line,  and  tlie  ai)pearance  will  now  be  as  Fig.  3.  The  bread 
Is  placed  under  the  apron  part,  k.  Fig.  3. 

c 


bid.  3. 


Kit;.  J. 


THE  MITEK.— Fig.  5. 


Fold  tlie  napkin  into  three  parts  longways,  then  turn  down  the  right-hand 
corner,  and  turn  up  the  left-hand  one,  as  in  Fig.  0,  a  and  b.  Turn  back  the 
point  A  toward  the  right,  so  that  it  shall  lie  behind  c;  and  b  to  the  left,  so  as  to 
be  behind  d.     Double  the  napkin  back  at  the  line  e,  then  turn  up  f  from  ))efore 


Fig.  5. 


and  G  from  behind,  when  they  Avill  appear  as  in  Fig.  7.  Bend  the  corner  ir 
toward  the  right,  and  tuck  it  behind  i,  and  turn  back  the  corner  k  toward  the 
left  at  the  dotted  line,  and  tuck  it  into  a  corresponding  part  at  the  back.  The 
bread  is  placed  under  the  miter,  or  in  the  center  at  the  top. 


THE  FIJRT.-FiG.  8. 

P^'old  the  napkin  into  three  parts  longways,  then  fold 
across  the  breadth,  commencing  at  one  extremity  and 
continuing  to  fold  from  and  to  yourself  in  folds  about 
two  inches  broad  until  the  whole  is  done:  then  place  in 
a  tumbler,  and  it  will  appear  as  in  the  illustration. 

THE  NEAFOLITAN.— Fig.  9. 

Fold  the  napkin  into  three  parts  longAvays,  then  fold 

one  of  the  upper  parts  upon  itself  from  you;  turn  over 

the  cloth  with  the  part  having  four  folds  from  you,  and 

then  roll  up  the  part  a  ilnderneatli  until  it  appears  as  in  the  dotted  lines  in  Fig. 

10  at  B.    Now  turn  up  the  corner  b  toward  c,  so  that  the  edge  of  the  rolled  part 

shall  be  even  with  the  central  line;  re])eat  the  same  upon  the  opposite  side.  au(l 


Fig.  8. 


348 


NAPERY. 


turn  the  whole  over,  when  it  will  appear  as  iu  Fig 
ueath  part  k,  as  represented  iu  the  illustration. 


9.    The  bread  is  placed  under- 


Fig.  9. 


THE  COLLEGIAN.— Fig.   11. 


Fig.  10. 


Fold  the  napkin  into  three  parts  longways,  then  turn  down  the  two  sides 
toward  you,  so  that  they  shall  appear  as  in  Fig.  12;  then  roll  up  the  part  a  under- 
neath until  it  looks  lilie  b,  Fig.  13.    Now  take  the  corner  b  and  turn  it  up  toward 


Fig.  11. 


Fig.  12. 


Fig.  13. 


c,  so  that  the  edge  of  the  rolled  part  shall  be  even  with  the  central  line;  repeat 
the  same  on  the  other  side,  and  turn  the  whole  over,  when  it  will  appear  as  in 
Fig.  11.    The  bread  is  placed  underneath  the  part  k. 

THE  FAVORITE.— Fig.  14. 

Fold  the  napkin  into  three  parts  longways,  then  turn  down  the  two  edges  as 
in  Fig.  12,  and  roll  up  the  part  a  on  both  sides  until  as  represented  on  the  right- 
hand  side  in  Fig.  15;  then  turn  it  backward  (as  a,  b)  on  both  .sides;  now  fold 


Fig.  14. 


Fig.  15. 


Fig.  16. 


doAvn  the  point  c  toward  you,  turn  over  the  napkin  and  fold  tlie  two  other  parts 
from  you,  so  that  tliey  shall  appear  as  in  Fig.  16.  Turn  the  napkin  over,  thus 
folded,  and  raising  the  center  part  with  two  thumbs,  draw  the  two  ends  A  and 
U  together,  and  pull  out  the  parts  c  and  d  until  they  appear  as  in  Fig.  14, 


The  art  of  carving  is  a  very  requisite  branch  of  domestic  mauagement.  It 
not  only  belongs  to  the  honors  of  the  table,  but  it  is  important  from  an  economical 
point  of  view,  for  a  ham  or  a  fowl  or  a  joint  of  meat  ill  carved  will  not  serve  so 
many  persons  as  it  would  if  it  were  properly  carved.  And  it  does  seem  to  me 
that  the  most  careless  and  commonplace  person  can  at  once  discern  the  differ- 
ence in  the  taste  (to  say  nothing  of  the  looks)  of  a  fowl  that  is  well  carved  and 
one  that  is  awkwardly  handled. 

Ladies  ought  especially  to  make  carving  a  study.  In  their  own  homes  they 
grace  the  table,  and  should  be  enabled  to  perform  the  task  allotted  them  with 
sufficient  skill  to  prevent  remark  or  the  calling  forth  of  eager  proffers  of  assis- 
tance from  good-natured  visitors,  who  probably  would  be  mortified  by  a  com- 
plete failure.  It  is  true  that  ihe  mode  adopted  of  not  sending  meats,  etc.,  to  the 
table,  but  having  them  served  on  a  side-table  by  servants,  is  rapidly  banishing 
the  necessity  for  promiscuous  carding  from  the  elegantly  served  boards  of  the 
wealthy;  but  in  the  homes  of  the  less  wealthy,  where  the  refinements  of  cookery 
are  not  adopted,  the  utility  of  skill  in  the  use  of  a  carving-knife  is  sufficiently 
obvious. 

In  the  first  place,  whatever  is  to  be  carved  should  be  set  in  a  dish  sufficiently 

large  for  turning  it  if  necessary;  but  the  dish  itself  should  not  be  moved  from 

its  position,  which  should  be  close  before  t4ie  carver,  only  leaving  room  for  the 

plates.     The  carving-knife  should  be  light,  sharp,  well  tempered  and  of  a  size 

proportioned  to  the  joint,   strength  being  less   required  than   address   in   the 

349 


350 


SUGGESTIONS   ON    CARVING. 


manner  of  using  it.  Large,  solid  joints,  such  as  ham,  fillet  of  veal  and  corned 
beef,  cannot  be  cut  too  thin;  but  mutton,  roast  pork  and  other  joints  of  veal 
should  be  served  in  very  slender  slices.  There  are  certain  choice  cuts  or  del- 
icacies with  which  a  good  carver  is  acquainted.  In  helping  fish,  silver  should 
always  be  used,  and  care  talven  to  avoid  brealii-ng  the  flakes,  which  should  be 
kept  as  entire  as  possible.  Salmon  and  all  short-grained  fish  should  be  cut 
lengthwise  and  not  across,  portions  of  the  tliick  and  thin  being  helped  together. 

TO  CARVE  SIRLOIN  OF  BEEP. 

A  sirloin  should  be  cut  with  one  good,  firm  strolje  from  end  to  end  of  the 
joint,  at  the  upper  portion,  malcing  the  cut  very  clean  and  even  from  A  B  to  C. 
Then  disengage  it  from  the  bone  by  a  horizontal  cut  exactly  to  the  bone,  B  to 
D,  using  the  tip  of  the  knife.    Bad  carving  bears  the  hand  away  to  the  rind  of 


the  beef  eventually  after  many  cuts,  peeling  it  back  to  tlie  other  side,  leaving  a 
portion  of  the  best  of  the  meat  adhering  to  the  bone.  Every  slice  should  be 
clean  and  even,  and  the  sirloin  should  be  cut  fairly  to  the  very  end.  Many 
persons  cut  the  under  side  while  hot,  not  reckoning  it  so  good  cold;  but  this  is  a 
matter  of  taste,  and  so  is  the  mode  of  carving  it.  The  best  way  is,  first  of  all, 
to  remove  the  fat,  E,  which  chops  up  well  to  make  puddings,  if  not  eaten  at  the 
table.  Tlien  the  under  part  can  be  cut,  as  .already  described,  from  end  to  end, 
F  to  G,  or  downAvard,  as  shown  by  tlie  marks  at  H. 


BONING  TURKEY. 

Boning  poultry  is  a  difficult  business  for  the  inexperienced,  and,  generally 
speaking,  is  best  left  to  the  poulterer.  Written  instructions  for  its  accomplish- 
ment are  almost  valueless,  and  the  knowledge  gained  from  them  is  worth  very 
little  compared  to  that  which  may  be  derived  from  once  watching  an  experi- 
enced cook  perform  the  operation.  Turkeys  are  usually  boned  without  the  skin 
being  cut  up  the  back.  To  do  this,  the  joints  are  loosened  inside  the  bird,  the 
fiesh  raised  with  a  short,  sharp-pointed  knife,  and  the  bones  drawn  out  grad- 
ually, the  flesh  being  laid  baclv  until  the  body  is  turned  inside  out,  when  the 
boning  may  be  easily  finished,    Wheu  a  turkej^  has  been  boned,  the  legs  an4 


SUGGESTIONS   ON   CARVING. 


351 


wlugs  are  souerally  drawn  into  the  body  of  the  bird,  and  care  must  be  taken  to 
simmer,  and  then  to  cool  tlie  bird  very  gently  for  fear  the  skin  should  burst. 

CARVING  OF  TURKEY. 

The  breast  of  a  turkey  is  so  large  that  slices  taken  neatly  from  it  and  from 
the  wings  generally  suttice  for  all  the  company.     They  should  be  taken  from 


each  side  alternately,  beginning  close  to  tlie  wings;  and  a  little  forcemeat  and  a 
small  portion  of  liver  ought  to  be  served  to  each  guest.  When  it  is  necessary 
for  the  legs  to  be  used,  they  should  be  separated  from  the  body  with  a  sharp 
knife,  and  cut  into  slices,  but  it  should  be  remembered  that  they,  with  the 
gizzard,  will  make  an  excellent  devil. 

TO  CARVE  HAUNCH   OF  VENISON. 

In  carving  a  haunch  of  venison,  first  cut  it  across  doAvn  to  the  bone  in  the 
line  A  B;  then  turn  the  dish  with  the  knuckle  farthest  from  you,  put  in  the  point 
of  the  knife,  and  cut  down  as  deep  as  you  can  in  the  direction  shown  by  the 


dotted  lines.  You  may  take  out  as  many  slices  as  you  please  on  the  right  and 
left.  The  knife  should  slope  in  making  the  first  cut,  and  then  the  whole  of  the 
gravy  will  be  I'eeeived  in  the  well.  It  is  held  by  genuine  epicures  that,  some 
parts  of  the  haunch  are  better  flavored  than  others,  but  it  is  doubtful  whether 
ordinary  palates  will  detect  any  difference.  Slices  of  venison  should  not  be  cut 
thick,  and  plenty  of  gravy  should  be  given  Avith  them.  The  fat  is  very  apt  to 
get  cool  soon,  and  become  hard  and  disagreeable  to  the  palate;  it  should,  there- 
fore, always  be  served  upon  a  water-dish. 


S52 


SUGGESTIONS  OK  CARYlNG. 


STEAK. 

Steak  is  cut  into  thin  slices,  the  tenderloin  being  served  first,  the  other  part 
after  that  is  finished.  Veal  cutlet  is  usually  cut  up  into  small  pieces  before 
being  cooked;  if  not  tender,  it  should  be  cut  into  pieces  by  the  carver,  and 
served  with  gravy  or  sauce. 

TO  CARVE  LEG  OF  ROAST  PORK. 

In  carving  either  the  roast  leg  or  loin  of  pork,  the  knife  must  follow  the  direc- 
tion of  the  lines  scored  by  the  cook  before  the  meat  was  roasted,  on  the  skin 


which  forms  the  crackling.  This  skin  is  too  crisp  to  be  conveniently  cut  through. 
It  usually  happens  that  the  lines  scored  on  the  roasted  leg  of  porlv  are  placed 
too  far  apart  for  single  cuts.     In  order,  therefore,  to  cut  thin  slices  from  the 


meat,  raise  up  the  craclding.  The  seasoning  should  be  placed  under  the  skin 
around  the  shank-bone.  Often,  however,  sage  and  onion  are  sent  to  the  table 
separate  from  the  joint. 

TO  CARVE  CALF'S  HEAD. 

Commence  by  making  long  slices  from  end  to  end  of  the  cheek,  cutting  quite 
through  to  the  bone,  according  to  the  dotted  lines  from  A  to  B.  With  each  of 
these  slices  serve  a  cut  of  what  is  called  the  throat-sweetbread,  which  lies  at 
the  fleshy  part  of  the  neck-end.  Cut  also  slices  from  G  to  D  (they  are  gel- 
atinous and  delicate),  and  serve  small  pieces  with  the  meat.  A  little  of  the 
tongue  and  a  spoonful  of  the  brains  are  usually  placed  on  each  plate.     The 


SUGGESTIONS   ON   CARVING,  353 

tongue  is  served  on  a  separate  plate,  surrounded  by  the  brains,  and  is  cut  across 
in  ratlier  tliin  slices.  Some  persons  prefer  the  eye.  It  is  removed  by  a  circular 
cut  marked  by  dotted  lines  at  E.  First  piit  the  Icnife  in  slanting  at  F,  inserting 
llie  point  at  the  part  of  tlie  dotted  line,  and  driving  it  into  the  center  under  tlio 
eye;  tlien  turn  the  hand  around,  Iveeping  the  circle  of  tlie  dotted  line  with  blade 
of  tlie  knife,  the  point  still  in  the  center.     The  eye  will  come  out  entire,  cone- 


shaped  at  the  under  part,  when  the  circle  is  completed  by  the  knife.  The  lower 
jaw  must  next  be  removed,  beginning  at  C;  and  to  do  this  properly  the  dish 
must  be  turned.  The  palate  is  also  considered  a  dainty,  and  a  little  of  it  should 
always  be  offered  to  each  guest. 

HAM. 
Ham,  if  whole,  should  be  cut  through  to  the  bone  upon  the  upper  side  m  thin 


slices.    It  is  by  many  thought  to  be  a  more  economical  way  of  cooking  it  than  in 


a  piece. 
12 


S54 


StJGGfiSTtONS   OJST   (CARVING. 


TO  CARVE  BOILED  RABBIT. 

First  separate  the  legs  and  shoulders;  then  cut  the  back  across  into  two 
parts.  This  may  readily  be  accomplished  by  inserting  the  linife  in  the  joint, 
and  raising  up  the  back  with  the  fork.    As  in  the  case  of  the  hare,  the  back  of 


the  rabbit  is  best  worth  eating.    Some  liver  sauce  should  always  be  served  with 

boiled  rabbit. 

CARVING  OP  TONGUE. 

Begin  to  take  slices,  not  too  thin,  ftom  the  middle  of  the  tongue,  and  after- 
ward cut  slices  from  each  side,  being  careful  not  to  cut  quite  through  the 
tongue.  The  extreme  tip  is  usually  left  and  used  for  grating.  A  little  of  the 
fat  should  be  put  upon  each  plate.  When  the  tongue  is  rolled,  it  should  be  cut 
into  very  thin  slices  horizontally. 

TO  CARVE  ROAST  PARTRIDGE. 

The  partridge  is  cut  up  in  the  same  way  as  a  foAvl.  The  prime  parts  of  a 
partridge  are  the  wings,  breast  and  merry-thought.     When  the  bird  is  small, 


the  two  latter  are  not  often  divided.    The  Aving  is  considered  the  best,  and  the 
tip  of  it  considered  the  most  delicate  morsel  of  the  whole. 


SUGAR 


FLOUR  <i 


BUTTER 


2    heaping  teaspoonfuls  equal  1  heaping  tablespoon ful. 

1  heaping  tablespoonful  of  granulated,  A  coffee,  or  best  brown  equals  1  oz. 

2  lieaping  tablespoonfiils  of  powdered  equal  1  oz. 
2    heaping  teacupfuls  of  A  coffee  equal  1  ft. 

2    level  teacupfuls  of  granulated  equal  1  lb. 

2    level  coffee-cupfuls  of  powdered  equal  1  lb. 

23^  level  teacupfuls  of  best  brown  equal  1ft. 

2%  level  teacupfuls  of  powdered  equal  1  ft. 

1>^  level  coffee-cupfuls  of  granulated  equal  1  ft. 

1    pint  of  A  coffee  equals  12  oz. 

1    heaping  pint  of  granulated  equals  1-1  oz. 

1    quart  of  powdered  equals  1  ft  and  7  oz. 

1    quart  of  granulated  equals  1  ft  and  9  oz. 

1    quart  of  any  kind  equals  -4  teacupfuls. 

1    teacupf  ul  equals  8  fluid  oz.  or  2  gills. 

1  teacupful  or  16  tablespoonf uls  equal  34  a  pint  or  2  gills. 
A  common-sized  tumbler  holds  34  a  pint. 

2  heaping  teaspoonfuls  equal  1  heaping  tablespoonful. 
2    heaping  tablespoonf  uls  equal  1  oz. 

5    lieaping  tablespoonfu'.s  equal  1  teacupful. 
5    teacupfuls  of  sifted  flour  equal  1  ft. 
33^  level  teacupfuls  of  corn- meal  equal  1  quart. 
,  1    quart  of  sifted  flour  equals  1  ft. 

1  tablespoonful  of  soft  butter,  well  filled,  equals  I  oz. 
Size  of  a  medium  egg  equals  2  oz. 

4    heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  soft  butter  equal  1  teacupful. 

2  teacupfuls  of  packed  soft  butter  equal  1  ft. 
1  pint  of  well-packed  soft  butter  equals  1  ft. 
8    large  or  10  medium-sized  eggs  equal  1  ft. 

GENERAL  MEASURES. 
16  ounces  make  1  pound.  2  pints  make  1  quart. 

4  quarts  make  1  gallon, 
355 


i  gills  make  1  pint. 


LAUNDRY-WORK. 


In  these  days  of  so  many  washing  helps  of  every  variety,  the  old  way  of 
good  soap,  rain-water  and  elbow  grease  is  fast  disappearing. 

Washing-day  need  not  be  such  a  terror  to  the  housekeeper  if  managed  right. 
I  found  it  to  be  less  of  a  bugbear  wheu  I  got  my  maid  to  coincide  Avith  me  that 
Tuesday  was  the  best  day  to  have  for  washing-day.  Then  there  was  no  sorting 
of  clothes  on  Sunday  night,  nor  was  the  larder  completely  depleted,  as  it  Avas 
over  Sunday  AAath  tlie  old  arrangement.  So  Ave  took  Monday  for  general  clean- 
ing and  SAveepiug,  ate  up  the  left-oA'ers  and  made  a  little  preparation  for 
Tuesday's  meals,  so  as  not  to  go  through  the  ordeal  of  a  Avash-day  dinner  also. 

The  clothes  should  be  carefully  sorted  over  first,  then  Avash,  boil,  and  rinse 
all  that  need  no  starch,  and  put  these  out  to  dry.  Then  give  the  attention  to  the 
starched  ones. 

Do  not  take  boiling  suds  to  wash  your  calicos  unless  you  wish  them  to  loolv 
badly  in  a  fcAV  AAashings.  A  poor  laundress  Avill  spoil  a  forty-cent  gingham  in 
one  Avashing;  a  good  one-  will  keep  it  bright  until  it  is  Avorn  out.  It  is  simply 
impossible  to  use  any  of  the  Avashing-powders  on  colored  clothes  Avithout  fading 
them. 

Red  table-cloths  and  naplvins  lose  their  fresh,  red  color  soon  unless  carefully 
handled.  They  should  be  soaked  for  half  an  hour  in  cold  water,  then  put 
quickly  through  a  lukcAA^arm  suds,  rinsed  in  salt-AA^ater,  and  hung  up  imme- 
diately. Unless  you  have  a  bright  day  to  dry  your  woolens,  they  had  better  be 
left  until  the  sun  shines,  or  dried  over  the  stove,  as  nothing  shrinlvS  flannels  as 
hanging  too  long  Avet  and  being  cold. 

Stockings  should  never  be  left  to  soak,  but  AA^ashed  immediately  in  clean 

Avater,  and  not  in  the  boiling  suds  that  is  left  from  the  other  clothes,  and  Avhich 

alAA'ays  has  plenty  of  lint  in  it.    They  should  be  pinned  in  pairs,  and  hung  up 

by  the  toes.    Woolen  hose  should  not  be  ironed,  but  dried  nicely,  and  pulled  into 

Bhape, 

356 


LAUNDRY-WOKK. 


357 


Stains  in  table-liueu  can  be  talven  out  by  pouring  boiling  water  tlu'ougli  them 
before  they  liave  been  put  into  tlie  boiling  suds.  Ink  spots  on  white  goods,  if 
submerged  immediately  into  new  mill^,  will  come  out;  but  if  allowed  to  stand 
until  dry,  an  acid  of  some  kind  will  have  to  be  used.  Citric  is  recommended  by 
some. 


Ironing-board— Open. 

Iron  rust  can  be  easily  removed  by  the  application  of  oxalic  acid  weakened 
with  Avater,  as  it  is  liable  to  eat  the  goods.    This  cannot  be  used  upon  any  kind 
of  colored  fabric  without  removing  the  color. 
Some    use    chlorid    of    lime    to    whiten    their 
clothes,  but  it  must  be  used  Avith  great  care. 

To  starch  dark-colored  clothes,  mix  your 
starch  with  coffee  liquid,  and  starch  them  on 
the  wrong  side. 

SPRINKLING. 
When  the  clothes  are  dry,  pull  them  into 
shape,  and  fold  so  that  you  need  only  iron  the 
ends.  Table-linen  should  l)e  very  damp,  and 
folded  the  length  of  the  cloth  first.  The  irons 
should  be  very  hot,  and  it  should  be  ironed 
very  dry,  so  as  to  give  it  a  gloss.  It  should 
then  be  hung  in  the  sunshine  or  by  the  fire  to 
finish.  The  towels,  should  be  dampened  and 
well  shaken,  and  folded  all  one  way.  Sprin- 
kling and  folding  will  often  save  ironing. 
Thin  things,  like  handkerchiefs,  can  be  laid 
between  damp  things,  and  will  iron  better  for 
not  being  sprinkled.  Starched  clothes  should 
be  quite  wet,  and  should  be  shaped  as  they 
are  folded  down.  These  may  be  left  until 
some  of  the  rougher  things  are  ironed.  , 

IRONING. 
If  you  do  all  of  your  own  housework,  you  will  not  find  much  time  to  iron  in 
the  morning.     Have  a  well-covertnl  board,  good  holders,  and  a  waxed  cloth  to 
nib  off  your  iuons,  or  some  salt  upon  a  paper.     The  irons  that  have  wooden 


358 


LAUNDRY-WORK. 


handles  are  to  be  preferrecl,  as  they  do  not  spread  the  hand  so  much,  and  it  is 
not  so  tiring.  I  do  not  Ivnow  that  any  exact  rules  can  be  laid  do\^'u  for  ironing, 


Clothes- JLiNE  Huist. 


as  it  is  practice  that  malies  perfect,  in  this  as  well  as  many  other  things.  All 
irons  retain  their  heat  better  after  darlv,  and  it  is  much  better  to  work  with 
them  then  than  in  the  daytime.     They  should  be  Avashed  occasionally  and  Avell 


A  Convenient  Clothes-line. 

dried,  and  rubbed  with  lard  to  keep  them  from  rust,  and  they  should  never  set 
against  an  outside  wall.  As  far  as  possible,  iron  with  the  thread  of  the  goods, 
pull  the  article  straight,  and  move  the  iron  in  the  same  direction  -as  the  weaving 


laUnuhy-work.  359 

of  *he  cloth.  Iron  embroitleries  on  the  wrong  side,  upon  a  thick  piece  of  flannel. 
Pass  the  iron  over  lace  only  enough  to  dry  it,  then  with  the  tiujiers  pull  it  into 
shape.  Experience  is  the  main  thing  in  all  laundry-work,  and  it  can  only  be 
obtained  by  practice. 

STARCH. 

This  should  be  well  mixed  with  cold  water  in  the  pan  in  which  you  intend  to 
cook  it,  boiling  water  turned  upon  it,  and  stirred  to  keep  it  from  lumping.  I  put 
into  my  starch  only  one  teaspoouful  of  white  sugar.  I  find  that  salt  is  affected 
by  the  atmosphere,  and  makes  the  clothes  limpy;  then  I  also  use  a  preparation 
made  of  etpial  parts  of  Avhite  Avax  and  paratliu  melted  together,  and  poured 
into  a  mold,  of  which  I  take  a  piece  the  size  of  a  filbert  to  every  pan  of  starch; 
this  gives  a  nice  gloss  to  the  linen,  and  makes  the  ironing  of  it  much  easier. 

Housekeeping  in  all  its  details  is  a  wide  subject,  and  many  of  us  must  take 
the  best  part  of  a  lifetime  to  learn  it.  It  is  best  to  learn  it  gradually,  and  not  be 
discouraged  if  it  is  not  all  accomplished  in  a  year.  There  are  always  new  ways 
coming  up,  and  it  is  a  good  plan  to  take  up  with  some  of  them.  We  give  cuts  of 
a  good  ironing-board,  and  also  a  convenient  clothes-line  and  clothes-hoist. 

A  is  a  pulley  fastened  under  the  porch,  B  is  a  pulley  fastened  to  a  high 
post  or  on  top  of  the  barn,  C  is  a  double  rope.  Commencing  at  A  and  working 
the  ,line  toward  B,  you  can  hang  up  that  many  clothes  without  getting  off  youi 
porch.  A  great  saving  to  going  through  snow  or  wet  grass.  Those  using  them 
would  not  l)e  without  them. 


HOUSEHOLD 

HINTS  AND  RECIPES. 


Paste  fok  Scrap-books.— Put  in  plenty  of  alum.  It  will  prevent  moth  or 
mice. 

Keeosene  and  powdered  lime,  whiting  or  wood  ashes,  will  scour  tins  with 
little  trouble. 

To  Clean  Stovepipes.— Rub  Avell,  while  warm,  with  linsoed-oil.— Hattie  M, 
Wood,  Mt.  Gilead,  Ohio. 

Moths.— To  keep  moths  out  of  drawers,  wet  a  piece  of  cloth  in  spirits  of  tur- 
pentine, and  lay  in  the  dawers. 

To  Remove  Sewino-machine  Oil.— Wet  the  spots  with  spirits  of  turpentine, 
and  wash  out  with  cold  water  and  toilet  soap. 

Tar  may  be  removed  from  either  hands  or  clothing  by  rubbing  well  with 
lard,  and  then  washing  AvellAvith  soap  and  water. 

To  Keep  IjArd  Fresh.— To  every  eight  gallons  of  lard  add  one  quart  of 
strained  honey.— Jennie  Meek,  Tahlequah,  Indian  Territory. 

Calcimine.— Four  pounds  of  Paris  white,  two  pounds  of  zinc,  one  half  pound 
of  white  glue.— Mrs.  Edward  A.  Webster,  Basking  Grove,  New  Jersey. 

Bluing.— One  ounce  of  Prussian  blue,  one  half  ounce  of  oxalic  acid;  dissolve 
in  one  quart  of  warm  Avater.— Mrs.  B.  F.  A.,  Providence,  Rhode  Island. 

Ants.— To  keep  Vilack  ants  from  any  dish  or  pail,  draw  a  circle  of  chalk 
around  it.    This  remedy  has  been  proved.— S.  E.  C,  South  Britain,  Connecticut. 

Cement  for  Cans.— One  pound  of  rosin,  one  pound  of  lard,  one  ounce  of 
tallow,  one  ounce  of  beeswax.  Melt,  and  stir  together.— Mrs.  D.  S.  A.,  Roanoke, 
Indiana. 

To  Clean  Knives.— Cut  a  good-sized,  solid,  raw  potato  in  two;  dip  the  flat 
surface  into  powdered  brick-dust,  and  rub  the  knife-blades.  Stains  and  rust  will 
disappear. 

To  Take  Out  Scorch.— If  a  shirt-bosom  or  any  other  article  has  been 
scorched  in  ironing,  lay  it  where  the  bright  sunshine  will  fall  directly  on  it. 
It  will  take  it  out  entirely. 

360 


HOUSEHOLD   HINTS   AND   RECIPES.  3G1 

To  Free  the  House  from  Disagreeable  Odors.— Spriuklo  ono  tablospoonful 
of  yroniid  coffee  on  the  stove  while  it  is  liot,  or  brown  sugar  spriuivled  ou  some 
live  coals  held  ou  a  shovel. 

How  TO  Make  Furniture  Look  New.— Take  three  parts  of  sweet-oil,  oue 
part  spirits  of  turpentine,  and  mix  them.  Kub  off  all  the  dust,  and  apply  the 
mixture  with  a  tlaunel  cloth. 

To  Make  Sour  Fruit  Sweet  Without  Sugar.— To  two  pouuds  of  fruit,  when 
cooliiug,  add  one  teaspoouful  of  soda.  It  will  be  found  clieapt-r  tlian  sugar.— 
Mrs.  A.  F.  T.,  Big  Island,  Virginia. 

To  Take  Off  IIust  or  Starch  from  Fi.at-irons.— Tie  a  piece  of  beeswax 
in  a  cloth.  When  the  irou  is  almost  hot  enough  to  use,  rub  with  the  beeswax, 
and  then  with  a  coarse  cloth.— L.  J.,  Kingsville,  Missouri. 

To  Take  Out  Mildew.- Mix  soft  soap  with  powdered  starch,  half  as  much 
salt,  and  the  juice  of  one  lemon;  lay  it  on  the  part,  ou  both  sides,  with  a  brush; 
let  it  lie  on  the  grass  day  and  niglit  until  the  stain  comes  out. 

Cologne-water.— One  ounce  of  lemon,  one  ounce  of  bergamot,  one  ounce  of 
lavender,  one  ounce  of  musk,  one  ounce  of  cinnamon,  one  ounce  of  orange,  one 
half  pint  of  alcohol.— Carrie  lu  xVustin,  Throopsville,  New  York. 

To  Clean  Copper  Kettles.— Wet  a  coarse  cloth  in  hot  water.  Soap  the 
cloth  well,  and  sprinkle  over  pulverized  borax.  Rub  the  kettle  well,  and  rinse 
in  hot  water.    Some  use  vinegar,  but  this  is  easier,  and  does  as  well. 

Starcii-polisii.— Tavo  ounces  of  gum  arable  dissolved  in  one  pint  of  boiling 
soft  water;  let  it  stand  all  night;  drain  oft"  into  bottles;  use  two  tablespoonfuls 
to  one  pint  of  starch.— Mrs.  E.  W.  Thomas,  Fetterman,  Pennsylvania. 

Cleaning  Silver.— Two  drams  of  aqua  ammonia,  two  ounces  of  alcohol, 
oue  teaspoouful  of  precipitated  chalk.  Sliake  it  well  before  using,  and  polish 
witli  a  Canton  flannel  cloth.— Mrs.  C.  W.  H.,  Fountain,  South  Dakota. 

To  Clean  Ostrich-feathers.— A  Avhite  or  light-colored  featlii^r:  Lay  it  on 
a  plate,  and  pour  over  it  a  little  warm  water;  then  with  a  tooth-brush  and  a 
little  soap  brush  it  gently.     Kinse  it  well,  and  it  Avill  be  as  good  as  new. 

To  Take  Paint  Off  of  Clothes.— Rul)  the  clothes  Avell  Avitli  spirits  of  tur- 
pentine. If  the  paint  be  allowed  to  harden,  notliing  will  remove  it  but  spirits 
of  turpentine  rubbed  on  with  perseverance.    Use  a  soft  sponge  or  a  soft  rag. 

Tracing-paper.— Mix  by  a  geutle  heat  oue  ounce  of  Canada  balsam  and  one 
fourth  of  a  pint  of  spirits  of  turpentine.  Spread  thinly  over  one  side  of  good 
tissue-paper  Avith  a  soft  brush.— B.  Flora  Broadman,  Del.aAvare  county,  Ohio. 

To  Make  Washing  Easy.— Mix  oue  tablespoonful  of  kerosene-oil  Avith  one 
pint  of  soft  soap,  and  soap  all  the  boiled  clotlies;  put  them  in  soak  over  night, 
and  very  little  rubbing  Avill  be  necessary.— Mary  E.  M.  Lendoii,  Prairie  Grove, 
Texas. 

To  Clean  a  Tea-pot.— If  the  inside  of  your  tea  or  coft'ee  pot  is  black,  fill  it 
with  water,  and  put  in  a  piece  of  hard  soap.  Set  it  on  the  stoA^e,  and  let  it  boil 
half  an  hour  or  one  hour.  It  Avill  be  as  bright  as  new.— H.  E.  Van  Deusen,  Elsie, 
Michigan. 

To  Clean  Cistern-avater.— Add  two  ounces  of^poAvdered  alum  and  two 
ounces  of  borax  to  a  tAventy-barrel  cistern  of  rain-AA'ater  that  is  lilackened  or 
oily;  in  a  few  hours  the  sediment  will  settle,  and  the  water  be  clarified  and  fit 
for  washing. 


362  HOUSEHOLD   HINTS   AND   RECIPES. 

Stove-polish.— Shave  up  equal  quantities  of  stove-polish  and  hard  soap; 
boil  slowly  with  enough  soft  water  to  dissolve  it.  Apply  by  moistening  the 
mixture  with  a  little  water,  and  rub  on  with  a  brush.— Mrs.  H.  E.  D.,  Clarks, 
Pennsylvania. 

To  Brighten  Tinwaee.— Wash  your  tinware  with  warm  water  and  a  little 
soap  to  get  it  clean.  Then  tal^e  a  piece  of  soft  leather,  wrap  it  around  the  hand, 
rub  it  as  you  would  to  polish  it,  and  it  will  be  very  bright.— Emma  J.  Cravens, 
Hanover,  Indiana. 

To  Remove  Iron  Rust.— While  rinsing  clothes,  take  such  as  have  spots  of 
rust  on  them,  wring  out:  dip  a  Avet  finger  into  oxalic  acid,  and  rub  on  the  spot; 
then  dip  into  salt,  and  rub  on,  and  hold  on  a  warm  flat-iron,  or  on  the  tin  or 
copper  tea-kettle  if  it  has  hot  water  in  it. 

To  Keep  Off  Mosquitoes.— Dip  a  piece  of  sponge  or  flannel  into  camphorated 
spirits,  and  make  it  fast  to  the  top  of  the  bedstead.  A  decoction  of  pennyroyal 
or  some  of  the  bruised  leaves  rubbed  on  the  exposed  parts  will  keep  these  insects 
away. — Sallie  Cochran,  Ennalls  Springs,  Indiana. 

Turkish  Cement.— Put  into  a  bottle  two  ounces  of  isinglass  and  one  ounce 
of  the  best  gum  arabic;  cover  with  proof  spirits;  cork  loosely,  and  place  the 
bottle  in  a  vessel  of  water,  and  boil  until  a  thorough  solution  is  effected;  then 
strain  for  use. — Mrs.  Mary  Shannon,  Walnut  Station,  Minnesota. 

Currant  Vinegar.— Bruise  two  quarts  of  ripe  currants;  add  one  quart  of 
strong  vinegar;  let  it  stand  twenty-four  hours;  strain  it,  and  add  four  pounds 
of  white  sugar;  let  it  boil  fifteen  minutes,  tlien  bottle  it.  A  nice  drink  in  cases 
of  fever  or  in  summer-time.— Mrs.  11.  S.  Clark,  La  Crosse,  Michigan. 

Bedbugs.— Get  a  bottle  of  the  oil  of  cedar,  and  with  a  brush  paint  the  cords 
at  the  eyelet-holes,  and  all  the  crevices  in  the  bedstead,  and  after  one  or  two 
applications  housekeepers  will  be  delighted  to  find  that  all  the  bugs  have  dis- 
appeared; and  there  is  nothing  dangerous  or  unpleasant  in  the  remedy. 

Liquid  Glue.— Take  a  wide-mouthed  bottle,  and  in  it  dissolve  eight  ounces  of 
best  glue  in  one  half  pint  of  water  by  setting  the  bottle  in  a  vessel  of  water, 
and  heating  it  until  it  dissolves;  then  add  slowly,  constantly  stirring,  one  half 
ounce  of  strong  aqua  fortis  (nitric  acid).  Keep  well  corked.— Mrs.  T.  A.,  Augusta, 
Ohio. 

To  Clean  Light  Kid  Gloves.— One  quart  of  deodorized  gasolene  and  one 
ounce  of  ether;  mix,  and  cork  tightly  in  a  glass  bottle.  Lay  the  gloves  on  a 
plate,  turn  on  enough  of  the  mixture  to  dampen  well,  and  rub  gently  with  a  soft 
linen  or  cotton  rag;  then  expose  it  well  to  the  air.— Mrs.  L.  O.  Field,  Farmington, 
Minnesota. 

How  to  Keep  Weevil  Out  of  Bean-seed. — Gather  them  when  quite  dry,  and 
sun  before  taking  them  out  of  the  hulls;  after  hulling,  put  them  into  a  bag,  sieve 
or  basket,  and  pour  boiling-hot  w.iter  on  them;  let  the  water  i"un  off  imme- 
diately, put  them  in  the  sunshine,  and  dry  them. — Mrs.  L.  Amanda  Carver, 
Mount  .Juliet.  Tennessee. 

To  Clean  AVoolen  Dresses.— Take  corn-meal  and  water,  and  boil  it  the  same 
as  for  mush;  put  the  dress  with  enough  water  and  the  mush  to  wash  it;  rinse 
it  in  clear  water,  and  hang  it  up  to  dry  without  wringing,  to  keep  it  from  being 
wrinkled;  iron  it  on  the  wrong  side  before  it  is  quite  dry.— Mrs.  John  F.  Staats, 
Townsend,  Delaware. 


HOUSEHOLD   HINTS   AKD  RECIPES.  863 

To  Keep  Lard  Sweet.— When  fold,  cover  the  top  with  a  cloth  a  little  larger 
than  the  top  of  the  jar;  cover  the  cloth  over  with  tiue  salt,  and  lay  another  cloth 
over  tliat;  tuck  the  edj^es  down  closely  to  keep  out  the  air;  put  on  the  cover,  and 
over  this  place  two  or  three  thicknesses  of  paper,  and  tie  down  closely.  Keep 
it  in  a  cool  place.— A.  E.  M.,  Wiluiot  Flat,  New  Hampshire. 

Raspberry  Vi.^egar.— Two  quarts  of  raspberries,  one  pint  of  vinegar.  Let 
them  lie  together  two  or  three  days;  wash  them  up,  and  strain  through  a  bag; 
to  every  pint  of  juice  allow  one  pound  of  sugar;  boil  twenty  minutes;  bottle 
when  cold.  Just  about  two  tablespoonfuls  to  a  glassful  of  water  makes  a  cool- 
ing drink  for  warm  days. — Emily  K.  Meads,  Clyde,  Ncav  York. 

For  Mending  China.— One  fourth  of  a  pound  of  extra  wliite  glue,  two  ounces 
of  isinglass,  two  ounces  of  gum  shellac,  two  ounces  of  white  lead,  three  foui'ths 
of  a  pint  of  alcohol,  three  fourths  of  a  pint  of  water.  Mix  Avell,  and  boil  twenty 
minutes;  then  bottle  for  use.  This  will  stand  hot  or  cold  Avater.— Mrs.  Mattie 
Stapp,  Secretary  Trenton  High  School  Reading-room,  Kentucky. 

Cleaning  Marble. — Dissolve  a  large  lump  of  Spanish  whiting  in  water  which 
has  preA  iously  dissolved  a  teaspoonful  of  washing-soda,  taking  only  water 
enough  to  moisten  the  whiting,  and  it  will  become  a  paste;  rub  onto  the  marble 
with  a  Hannel  cloth,  and  leave  it  for  awhile.  Repeat  the  process  two  or  three 
times,  if  necessary.  Wash  it  off  with  soap  and  Avater;  dry  well,  and  polish. — J. 
McPherson,  Montreal. 

To  Color  Cotton  Bkown.— To  four  pounds  of  goods  take  one  pound  of  cat- 
echu and  one  half  pound  of  bichromate  of  potash.  Dissolve  the  bichromate  of 
potash  in  hot  water  in  a  boiler,  and  then  turn  out,  and  put  the  catechu  in  the 
boiler,  and  dissolve,  having  water  enough  on  both  to  color  the  goods.  Keep  both 
dyes  hot;  wet  the  goods  in  hot  water,  and  dip  first  into  catechu,  tlien  into  the 
bichromate  of  potash,  until  you  have  the  desired  color. 

To  Wash  Thread-lace.— Cover  a  bottle  with  white  flannel.  Baste  the  lace 
carefully  on  the  flannel,  and  rub  with  white  soap.  Place  the  bottle  in  a  jar  filled 
with  warm  suds,  and  let  it  remain  tw^o  or  three  daj  s,  changing  the  water  several 
times.  Boil  with  the  finest  white  clothes  on  washing-day.  When  cooled  a  little, 
rinse  several  times  in  plenty  of  cold  water.  Wrap  a  soft,  dry  towel  around  it, 
and  place  in  the  sunsliine.  When  dry,  unwind,  but  do  not  starch  it.— Miss  E. 
M..  Cincinnati,  Ohio. 

Permanent  Blue  for  Cotton. — For  each  pound  of  cotton  use  one  ounce  of 
copperas  and  one  half  ounce  of  prussiate  of  potash.  Dissolve  the -copperas  in 
sufilcient  water,  put  in  the  cloth,  and  let  it  drain  twenty  minutes.  Then  dissolve 
the  prussiate  of  potash  in  sufficient  watei',  and  dip  the  cloth  in  for  one  half 
hour.  Then  add  one  half  ounce  more  of  prussiate  of  potasli,  dip  again,  and  air 
it.  Then  add  one  ounce  of  oil  of  vitriol.  Drain;  dip  again,  and  rinse  with  cold 
water.— Charles  McLaughlin,  West  Point,  Ohio. 

Japanese  Cseam  for  Cleaning  Black  Goods.— Two  ounces  of  white  castile 
soap,  one  half  ounce  of  ether,  one  half  ounce  of  spirits  of  wine,  one  half  ounce 
of  glycerin,  one  and  one  half  ounces  of  ammonia.  Cut  the  soap  fine,  and  dis- 
solve it  in  one  pint  of  rain-Avater;  then  add  the  other  ingredients.  When  needed 
for  use,  shake  it  well,  and  take  one  half  teacupful  of  the  cream  to  one  pint  of 
warm  w^ater;  sponge  the  goods  with  it  on  the  right  side,  and  press  it  on  the 
wrong  side.— Mrs.  R.  W.  Mills,  Webster  Groves,  Missouri. 


364  SOtTSEttOtt)  filNTS   AND  RECIPES. 

To  Color  Rags  or  Yarns  Yellow.— Dip  four  pounds  of  ragS  or  yarn  into  hot 
Avater  in  which  one  half  pound  of  sugar  of  lead  has  been  dissolved;  dissolve  one 
half  pound  of  bichromate  of  potash  in  enough  water  to  take  it  up,  then  dip  the 
material  into  it.  It  will  color  a  beautiful  orange  by  dipping  it  into  boiling,  air- 
slaked  lime-water;  then  rinse  in  clear  water.  To  color  green,  dip  the  yellow 
goods  into  a  solution  made  with  two  boxes  of  indigo-blue,  dissolved  in  one  and 
one  half  pails  of  water. — D.  A.  H.,  Vernon  Center,  Minnesota. 

To  Make  Extract  of  Lemon.— Pare  or  grate  off  the  yellow  rind  of  the  lemon. 
It  is  the  yellow  rind  that  contains  the  essential  oil  of  the  fruit.  Be  very  care- 
ful to  avoid  the  white  underlying  skin,  which  is  very  bitter,  and  would  spoil  the 
delicacy  of  the  flavor.  Put  the  grated  rind  into  a  bottle,  and  cover  it  with 
alcohol  or  with  simple  syrup,  or  both  in  equal  parts;  then  cork  the  bottle,  and 
let  it  stand  for  three  weeks,  after  which  it  is  ready  for  use.  If  you  wish  it  very 
strong,  pour  the  same  liquor  over  fresh  peel,  and  let  it  stand  three  weeks  longer. 
— F.  C.  White,  Georgiana,  Florida. 

Washing  Preparation.— Three  pounds  of  bar-soap,  two  pounds  of  sal-soda, 
one  and  one  third  pounds  of  borax.  Dissolve  the  soda  and  borax  in  three  quarts 
of  warm  Avater,  and  the  soap  in  scA^en  quarts,  Avithout  boiling;  Avhen  all  are 
dissolved,  put  together,  pour  into  a  tub;  when  cold,  cut  into  pieces,  and  put  into 
a.  box.  When  ready  to  wasli,  put  into  the  boiler  the  necessary  amount  of  Avater, 
and  into  this  put  a  teacupful  of  the  preparation;  let  it  get  scalding  hot,  then  pour 
over  the  soiled  clothes,  and  let  them  stand  one  half  hour  before  rubbing.— Mrs. 
Emma  Eggleston,  Mount  Riga,  New  York. 

Vinegar. — To  make  six  gallons,  take  six  pints  of  shelled  corn,  and  pour  on 
cold  AA^ater  enough  to  alloAv  the  corn  to  swell.  Let  it  boil  until  the  strength  is 
extracted.  Strain  this  into  the  jar  or  keg,  and  fill  it  up  Avith  water,  hard  or  soft, 
to  make  six  gallons  in  all.  Add  six  teacupfuls  of  brown  sugar,  tAvo  teacupfuls 
of  ]nolasses,  and  a  piece  of  the  mother  of  vinegar.  Tie  a  thin  piece  of  muslin 
over  the  top,  and  set  in  a  moderately  warm  place.  In  a  feAA'  weeks  it  will  be 
excellent  viuegai-.  When  more  is  needed,  leave  a  quart  in  the  jar,  and  it  will 
make  quiclvev. — Mrs.  M.  J.  S.,  Cannon  Falls,  Minnesota. 

Washing  Scarlet  Flannel.— A  handful  of  flour  mixed  AAith  a  quart  of  cold 
Avater  and  boiled  for  ten  minutes.  Add  it  to  the  Avater  you  haA'e  ready  to  wash 
in.  The  articles  AAill  require  many  rinsings  in  clean  water  after  being  washed 
in  this  mixture;  but  if  carefully  done,  the  most  brilliant  scarlet  Avill  lose  none  of 
its  brightness.  If  flannel  is  soaked  in  pure,  cold  Avater  before  making  it  up,  it 
never  shrinks  at  all.  Get  a  washing-trough  filled  from  the  pump,  and  in  this 
the  flannel  is  placed.  As  soon  as  it  sinks  to  the  bottom  it  is  taken  out,  and  hung 
up  without  any  squeezing.  It  drains  itself,  and  does  not  lose  the  appearance  of 
neAv  flannel  AA^hen  dry. 

Washing  Compound.— Tavo  and  one  half  pounds  of  sal-soda,  one  half  pound 
of  borax,  one  fourth  of  a  pound  of  resin,  tAvo  ounces  of  salts  of  tartar,  one  ounce 
of  liquid  ammonia.  Dissolve  the  soda,  boi'ax  and  resin  in  four  quarts  of  water, 
and  let  it  boil  ten  minutes.  When  cold,  add  salts  of  tartar  and  the  ammonia, 
with  four  gallons  of  water.  Keep  AA-ell  corked.  Soak  the  clothes  over  night  in 
clear  Avater.  In  the  morning,  Avring  them  out  into  a  tub.  Pour  five  gallons  of 
water,  one  half  pint  of  the  Avashing  compound  and  one  half  pint  of  soft  soap 
into  tlie  boiler.    When  hot,  but  not  boiling,  pour  it  over  the  clothes,  letting  them 


fiOUSEHOLl)   HINTS   AND   RECIPES*  B65 

stand  covered  twenty  minutes.  Then  look  them  over,  rub  cut  the  streaks  of 
dirt,  and  put  tliem  into  the  boilei',  willi  the  same  quantity  ot  water,  soap  and 
compound  as  before  mentioned.  Let  tliem  come  to  a  boil,  tlien  rinse,  starch, 
and  hang  them  up  to  dry.— Mrs.  I).  A.  H.,  Vernon  Center,  JNIinnesota. 

REMEAtREU  that  the  wings  of  turkeys,  geese  and  chickins  sliould  never  be 
thrown  away.  Many  people,  especially  in  the  country,  keip  them  to  brush  off 
the  stove  or  range,  but  there  is  nothing  better  to  wash  and  clean  windows. 
Chamois  or  buckskin  is  very  good,  but  wings  are  better,  costing  nothing;  and 
their  use  is  an  economy— utilizing  lliat  which  would  otherwise  have  been 
thrown  away.  They  are  excellent  to  clean  the  lieartli  or  stove,  to  dust  fur- 
niture, but  best  of  all,  to  wash  windows,  because  the  corners  can  be  easily  and 
perfectly  cleaned  by  them,  leaving  no  lint  behind,  as  when  cloths  are  used. 
Use  these  Aviugs  also  to  spread  on  paste  when  papering  walls.  Tliere  is  nothing 
dcis  that  kind  of  Avork  better.— Mrs.  Stowe. 

Spirits  of  Ammonia.— There  is  no  telling  Avhat  a  tiling  will  do  until  you  try 
it.  I  knew  ammonia  diluted  in  water  could  restore  rusty  silks  and  clean  coat- 
collars,  but  Avlien  I  got  a  green  spot  on  the  carpet  I  tried  half  a  dozen  things 
liefore  I  thought  of  that,  and  that  was  just  what  did  the  AA'ork  effectually.  I 
put  a  teaspoonful  into  al)out  one  teacupful  of  hot  water,  took  a  clotli,  and  Avet 
the  spot  thoroughly,  just  rul)bing  it  sliglilly,  and  tlie  ugly  si)ot  Avas  gone.  It  is 
splendid  for  cleaning  your  silver.  It  makes  things  as  loright  as  iieAV  Avitliout 
any  expenditure  of  strengtli,  and  for  loolciug-glasses  and  AviudoAvs  it  is  best  of 
all.  One  day  Avheu  I  was  tired  and  my  dish-cloths  looked  rather  gray.  I  turned 
a  fcAV  drops  of  annnonia  into  the  Avater,  and  rubbed  them  out,  and  found  it 
acted  like  a  charm;  and  I  shall  be  sure  to  do  so  again  some  day.  I  suppose 
liouseAvives  have  a  perfect  right  to  experiment  and  see  Avliat  results  they  can 
produce;  and  if  they  are  not  on  as  large  a  scale  as  the  farmers',  why,  they 
are  just  as  important  to  us,  and  may  malie  our  Avork  ligliter,  and  brighter,  too. 
NoAV,  I  do  not  belie\'e  in  luxuriating  in  a  good  thing  all  alone,  and  I  do  hope  all 
the  housekeepers  Avill  send  and  get  a  ten-cent  bottle  of  spirits  of  ammonia  and 
commenct^  a  series  of  cliemical  experiments  and  see  Avhat  they  can  accomplish 
Avith  it.  Take  the  boys'  jackets,  the  girls'  dresses,  and  when  you  have  cleaned 
everything  else,  put  a  few  drops  into  some  AA-ater,  and  Avash  the  little  folks' 
hoods. 


Skewers  are  made  use  of  either  as  an  ornament  or  as  a  garnish.  They  are 
applied  alike  to  removes  and  entrees,  if  they  be  cold  or  warm,  meat  or  fish. 
Yet  it  will  not  prove  useless  to  observe  that  skewers  as  a  garnisli  ouglit  only 
to  be  applied  in  rare  cases;  by  malcing  too  frequent  use  of  them  their  value  is 
considerably  diminished. 

Garnished  skewers  should  be  used  only  if  playing  a  part  agreeing  to  their 
natural  luxury;  from  the  moment  they  cease  to  be  surrounded  by  the  brilliant 
cortege  Avhich  constitutes  the  sumptuous  part  of  a  well-served  dinner  they 
produce  no  effect. 

The  twelve  skewers  represented  in  the  following  pages  are  all  of  a  different 
character. 

Fig.  1  is  composed  of  different  pieces  of  turnips  and  carrots,  cut  with  the 
aid  of  a  small  knife;  the  oval  and  crescent  are  in  turnip,  hollowed  out  in  tlie 
center  and  studded  w^th  a  thin  slice  of  carrot;  the  vegetables  must  not  be 
boiled,  and  are  scarcely  blanched. 

Fig.  2  represents  a  skewer  composed  of  a  truffle  and  a  cockscomb;  the 
truttle  is  boiled  with  its  peel  on.    The  cockscomb  must  be  of  a  nice  white  color. 

Fig.  3  represents  a  skewer  composed  of  a  decorated  quenelle  and  two  truffles, 
one  small,  the  other  large. 

Figs.  4,  5  and  6  represent  vegetables  imitating  vases  of  various  kinds.  These 
vases  are  cut  out  with  the  knife,  and  formed  of  several  pieces,  and  are  gar- 
nished with  flowers  imitated  in  vegetables— i-oses,  camellias  and  dahlias— and 
with  cloves,  peppercorns,  etc.  Flowers  imitated  in  these  materials  cannot  be 
of  perfect  likeness,  but  if  managed  tastefully  they  have,  notwithstanding,  a 
fine  effect. 

These  six  skewers  are  applicable  to  hot  removes. 

Figs.  7,  8  and  9  represent  transparent  skewers  destined  for  cold  pieces;  they 
are  formed  in  tin  cases,  which  are  either  round,  hexagonal  or  channeled;  the 
interior  of  these  ornaments  is  decorated  with  details  of  truffles,  very  red  pickled 
tongue  or  with  very  white  poultry-fillets.  The  truffles  applicable  to  transparent 
ornaments  may  be  boiled  without  being  peeled,  yet  there  is  no  impropriety  in 
peeling  them,  tlie  chief  point  being  that  they  be  large,  of  a  nice  black  color  and 
of  as  round  a  sliape  as  possible. 

366 


GARNISHED    SKEWERS. 


367 


Pigs.  10,  11  and  12  are  applicable  to  cold  fish  removes.    These  differ  from  the 
others  only  by  the  large  prawns  or  crayfish  joined  to  them  in  order  to  dis- 


FiG.  4.  Fig.  5.  Fig.  6. 

tinguish  them;  moreover,  truffles  and  mushrooms  may  be  admitted  into  their 
composition,   only   the  cockscombs  being   inadmissible.     In   many   cases  orna- 


388 


GAEKISHED    SKEWERS. 


ments  destined  for  fish  are  composed  only  of  large  shrimps  or  prawns;  but  cray- 
fish are  always  better  joined  with  truffles  or  mushrooms,  which  by  their  color 
give  an  agreeable  relief  to  the  eye. 


Fig.  10. 


Fig.  11. 


Fig.  12. 


Figs.  10  and  11  are  composed  of  truffles,  mushrooms  and  crayfish;  they  are 
simply  disposed  in  a  different  order. 


Molds  for  Creams  and  Ices. 


370 


MOLDS   FOR   CREAMS    AND   ICES. 


Molds  for  creams  aKD  ices. 


m 


372 


Molds  foR  creams  ahid  ices. 


Jndex.... 


PACE 

Acid,  strawberry  ....   310 

Alkathrepta   317 

Almond. 

Blanched 277 

Charlotte 256 

Icing 272 

Forcemeat 34 

Meringne   mixtnre. .    27  t 

Ammonia,    spirits   of.    36."» 

Anchovies 73 

Anchovy. 

Biscuit  paste 271 

Butter    53 

Angel's-food    .  . .   284.  28.5 

Ants,  to  drive  away.   300 

Apple. 
And  quinces,  canning 

314 

Baked 190,  239 

Butter    31.5 

Charlotte   249 

Coddled   2.38 

Dainty 2.51 

Dumplings,  baked  .  .    22.5 
Dumplings,  steamed  224 

Float  .. 239 

Fried    189 

Omelet 177 

Pie 217,  218 

Pudding,  baked 225 

Sauce 11 

Stuthng    95 

Tartlets   223 

Water 327 

Apricot. 

a  la  Conde 2.38 

Jam  sauce 24 

Meringues 239 

Pudding 228 

Arrowroot  pudding..  .   329 

Artichoke. 
Bottoms,  stewed .  . .   156 

Pickled 305 

Plain    208 

Salad   213 

Sauce 12 

Ash-cake,  southern .  . .   168 


PAGE 

Asparagus 1.53 

Peas 30 

Sauce   12,  188 

Upon  toast 153 

Aspic. 

Chicken  in 84 

Cream  sauce 12 

Jelly 12 

Mavonnaise 20 

Salsify   in 213 

Tomato    34 

Bacon-ham,  to  boil.  . .   136 

Bain-marie    sauce    or 

stew  pan    12 

Baking-powder 172 

Banana  tloat 240 

Bananas   261 

Barley. 

Soup 41 

Water 273 

Baskets. 

a  la  Rosslyn 240 

Chantilly 23() 

Larks  in 105 

Little,  a  la  Lavanue  250 
Little  nougat.  .  255.  2.58 
Princess 264 

Bass. 

Black   52 

Fillets  of 58 

Beans. 

Boston  baked 185 

Lima 149 

String 149 

To  keep  out  weevil.  3()2 

Bedbugs    362 

Beef. 

Corned 117 

Creams  of 118 

Dried 118,  183 

Farce  for  border. .  . .  30 
Farce  for  stutiing.  .  30 
Fillet  of.  ..114,  115,  116 

Forcemeat  of 35 

Loaf 114 

Pot-baked    116 

Pattits 184 

373 


PAGE 

Beef — Continued. 

Potted    117 

Scraped    329 

Sirloin 113 

Smothered 114 

Soup 38 

Steak,  baked 117 

Steak  pie 222 

Tea ;',27 

Tenderloin  of 112 

Tongue    116,   119 

Beet  salad 212 

Beverages   317,  320 

Alkathrepta   317 

Broma 317 

Chocolate    319 

Cocoa-shells,  or  nibs  317 

Coffee 317 

Cordial,  sweet-grape  320 

Harvest  drink  320 

Lemonade   319 

Lemon  vinegar  ....   319 
Raspberry  vinegar..  320 

Soda-cream   '519 

Soda-water    319 

Strawberry  acid  .  . .   319 
Tea 318 

Bills  of  fare 335—340 

Family  dinners. 335,  336 

Special  days 337 

State   dinners.    338—310 

Biscuits 157 

Light    162 

Birds'  nests   186 

Mush    185 

Paste,  anchovy  ....   271 

Soda 163 

Suggestions  for.  157,  158 
Without  shortening.  162 

Bisque. 

(^lace   2.50 

Of  mutton  (soup)  ..     38 

Blackberry. 

Flummery    247 

.Jam    315 

Blanc-mange    2.52 

Bluing 360 


S74 


INDEX. 


iPAGE 

Boar's  head. 187 

Bologna  sausage 140 

Bomb,  Cambridge   ...  268 

Bomb,  Fedora 262 

Bomb,   Rosseline  ....  266 

Border. 

Potato    32 

Rice  for 38 

Bottom  for  cake 273 

Bouillon  o'J 

Brains. 

Calf's,  fried    124 

Calf's,    little    crous- 

tades  of 123 

Cooked 123 

Forcemeat  balls. ...  35 

Bread    Ibl 

Brown    .162 

Brown,    Boston    .  . .  162 

Buttermilk    1(50 

Corn 166 

Corn,  delicate.  .....  Hi? 

For  dyspeptics.  ....  l(j'z 

Fried    181 

Graham 160 

Hominy   161 

Making,  practical  les- 
sons  in    158 

Milk-sponge 161 

Pancakes   179,  j80 

Potato    1 60 

Rye 162 

Salt-rising 1(51 

Sauce 14 

Softr-egg    132 

Soup 30 

Steamed 181 

Stuffing  for  fish.  ...  50 

Suggestions  for.  157,  158 

Whey 161 

White   160 

Bread,     biscuit,     etc. 

157—172 

Breakfast. 

And  tea  dishes   ....  173 

Dish    183 

Stew    183 

Vanities    186 

Broma 317 

Broth. 

Chicken    40,  326 

Clear    326 

Peptonized    326 

Quickly  made   325 

Veal,  brown 47 

Veal,  for  invalids.  .  326 

White 326 

Brown  Betty 229 

Brunswick  stew    ....  118 

Buckwheat. 

Cakes    178 

Self-raised   179 

Buck,  Yorkshire   ....  186 

Butter. 

Anchovy    53 

Apple   315 

Clarified    16 

Egg    5,N 

Green 32 


PAGE 

Butter — Continued. 

Maitre  d'hotel..   32,  309 

Montpelier    32 

Sauce,  drawn ....  17,   25 

Sauce,  melted 20 

Sponge-cake    291 

Tomato 23,  315 

Cabbage. 

Boiled   149 

Catsup 306 

Creamed    149 

Fried    149 

Smothered 150 

Cake    275 

a  la  Princesse  Maud  288 

Angel's-f ood ....  284,  2h5 

Bottom 273 

Breton   292 

Caramel 286 

Chevalier !:94 

Chocolate 283 

Christmas    288 

Citron   289 

Cocoanut 285 

Coffee 295 

Coloring  for 277 

Corn-starch 290 

Cream    285 

Custard   287 

Dark 292 

Delmonico     282 

Dutch 291 

Fig 281,  282 

F>uit 279.  280 

Gingerbread   .  .   294,  295 

Gold   289 

Hickory-nut    287 

Iced  orange 'JM 

Imperial 284 

Jelly    281,  283 

Lemon-jelly   281 

Little  Beatrice 290 

Maidette's    293 

Making    275 

Marble 278,  279 

Marshmallow   287 

Moka   278 

Neapolitan    286 

New-Year's 291 

Nut   287 

Orange    288 

Orange,  iced 29.3 

Plain 296 

Portugal    291 

Pound   290 

Princess   . 293 

Progress   280 

Rice   294 

Silver 289 

Small     296 

Cookies    296,  297 

Cream,   baker's  . .  298 

Crullers    -300 

Doughnuts,  raised  300 

Drop    297 

Drops,   cinnamon .  299 

Fried 297 

Fritters    300 

Gingersnaps    ....  298 


PAGE 

Cake,    Small — Continued. 

Ginger,  soft   298 

Jumbles    30(» 

Kisses     299 

Ladyfingers   299 

Macaroons 298 

Maple    297 

Meringues    298 

Patties,   cocoanut.  299 
Phoebe's  poverty.   297 

Snowballs    299 

Sugarsnaps    299 

Tarts,   sand    300 

Tea 297 

Wafers    300 

Spice 289 

Sponge 283 

Sponge,  butter 291 

Suggestions  for  ....  276 

Texas 289 

Thanksgiving 291 

To    prepare    raisins 

for    277 

Vanity   291 

Watermelon    293 

White   277 

AVhite-mountain    .  ..  283 
Cakes,    cookies    and 

fritters    275—300 

Calcimine   360 

Calf's  brains 123,  124 

Calf's  liver 122 

Calves'-feet  jelly  . .    .328 

Candies    321—324 

Butter-scotch    324 

Chocolate  caramels.  324 
Chocolate  creams  .  .   324 

Cocoanut 322 

Cream    321 

Cream,  French  323,  324 
Creams,  Parisian  ..  323 
Cream  walnuts  ....   324 

Ice-cream 321 

Maple-sugar    323 

Molasses    323 

Nut 322 

Sugar,   vanilla    322 

Taffy,  vanilla 323 

Taffy,  vinegar 323 

Taffy,  Walnut 323 

Uncooked   322 

White-sugar   322. 

Cans,  to  seal  up 312 

Cantaloup  sweet  pickle 

303 

Caper  sauce 15 

Caramel  cake   286 

Caramel  ice-cream   .  .   266 

Carrots    150 

New    .205 

Stewed    150 

Carving,     suggestions 

on   349-354 

Catsup   301 

Cabbage   306 

Cold 308 

Cucumber   306 

Currant   307 

Grape 307 


INDEX. 


375 


PAGE 

Catsup — Contiiuiod. 

Mixed o()7 

IMushrooui 308 

Ked-popper    30(i 

Spanish    307 

SugKestious  for.301,  302 

Tomato    300 

Worcestershire  ....   307 

Caudle,   flour    32t) 

Caul 30 

Cauliflower   1.^)0 

Celery   l.SO 

Salad    213 

Sauce ir» 

Stewed 15(5 

ViueRar    310 

Cement  for  cans   ....   360 

( 'enu-nt,  Turkish  ....   302 

Charlotte. 

a  la  Cora 2r>i 

a  la  Princesse 247 

Almond    2.50 

Apple 249 

Prince  of  Wales  . . .   25.5 

Kusse 244,  2.53 

Strawberry   243 

Cheese. 

Cake  pie    220 

Chicken   70 

Cottage  (Dutch) 102 

Cream  sauce    25 

Fleur  in  surprise  .  ..   103 

Fondue   100 

Pineapple   103 

Potted    102 

Sandwich   100 

Straws    192 

Chefs,  celebrated  ...   5,  6 

Cherry. 

Pie    217 

Pudding    225 

Spiced   300 

Water-ice  204 

Chestnut. 

Dressing 07 

Forcemeat    34 

Puree  or  farce  ....     31 

Sauce 14,  24 

Timhal  of 244 

riievalier  cakes 294 

Chicken. 
a  la  Bechamel   ....      78 
a  la  Chauceliere  ...      82 
a  la   Renaissance   .  .      02 

a  la  Kubanee 89 

a   rimperiale 91 

Aspic,  in 84 

au  Gros  Sel   SO 

an    Reveil    81 

au  Riz   82 

Boiled   81,  85 

Broiled  spring 81 

Broth 320 

Broth,  clear  white..      40 

Cheese   79 

Creams  of 84,  80 

Curried   85 

Cutlets 88,  184 

Dormers 90 


PAGE 

Chicken — Continued. 

Escalloped    80 

Farce   34 

Fried    91 

In  jelly    185 

Livers   89 

Minced    329 

I'anada   327 

Pepitoria    90 

Pie 87 

Pie  crust 222 

I'resse.l    88 

Quenelles   of    33 

Roast   80 

Salad    210 

Salad,  dressing  for.    214 

Salmis   of    83 

Saute 83,  93 

Sauted  nmscot 93 

Smothered 90 

Soup 39 

Steamed 92 

Stewed    80,  85 

Tongues  and    ...    77,  79 

Turban  of 87 

Chilli  sauce    lo 

China,  to  mend 303 

Chocolate    319 

Cake 283 

Frosting 270 

Icing  ..' 209 

Pudding 229 

Chopped  pickles 302 

Chops. 

Lamb 128 

Pork    138 

Choux  paste    2Vl 

Chow-chow    305 

Cliowder.    clam    05 

Christmas  cake 288 

Cider,  boiled,  pie  ....    220 
Cinnamon. 

Cookies    296 

Drops    299 

Cistern-water,  to  clear  361 
Citron. 
And  quince  preserves 

313 

Cake    289 

Preserves    313 

Clam. 

Chowder    05 

Deviled   05 

Soup   39 

Claret  sauce 15 

Clarified  butter l(i 

Cleaning  black  goods.    364 

Clove    cookies    296 

Cobbler,  peach   233 

Cocoanut. 

Cake   285 

Cookies   290 

Patties     299 

Pie     219 

Cocoa-shells,  or  nibs..   317 
Codfish. 

Balls 55 

Browned    50 

To  cook ,54 


PAGE 

Coffee    317 

Cake    295 

Cake,  breakfast  .  . .    l(i,s 

(Jlace   272 

Rolls 182 

Cologne-water    361 

Conscniime 40 

Cookies   275 

Cinnamon    29(> 

Clove 29(*( 

Cocoanut 296 

Mother    Christie's..    297 
AVithout  eggs 297 

Cooking  terms    .  .341 — 343 

Copper  kettles,  to  clean 
361 

Cordial,    sweet-grape.   320 

Corn. 

Baked   147 

Bread 1(!() 

Bread,  delicate    ....  I(i7 

Canned    148 

Custard    148 

Fried,  green   1 17 

Fritters    148 

(iems    1('>.5 

(ireen,  on  the  cob..    148 

Hulled    148 

Meal  and  rice  waffles 

169 

Meal  cakes   180 

Meal  flapjacks 168 

Meal  fritters 170 

Meal  gems 105 

Meal    griddle-cakes.    16( 

Meal  mush 170 

Meal  pancakes   ....    179 

Meal  puffs 171 

Meal  scones 1(;8 

Muflins    105 

Omelet,  green 1  ("8 

f )ysters   149 

Pone 108 

Soup    41 

Starch  cake   290 

Starch  pie 219 

SA\eet,     dried,     and 

beans    148 

To  hull 148 

Cornets,  with  cream.   274 

Cottage  cheese    192 

Cotton. 
Permanent  blue  for  3(i3 
To  color  brown    .  .  .    363 

Crabs. 

Dressed   71 

Timbal  of   . 72 

Cracked  wheat 182 

Crackers 16(! 

Cream   166 

French   165 

Soda    105 

Water    166 

Cracknels    132 

Egg   16( ! 

Cranberrv. 

.Tellv    315 

Pudding 226 

Sauce    16,   188 


376 


INDEX. 


PAGE 

Cream  265 

a  rindienne    207 

Bavarian 248 

Cake   2S5 

Cake,  layer 285 

Cakes,  baker's 298 

Cheese  sauce 25 

Dressing    for    cold 

slaw   214 

Garnishing    273 

Hamburg    2oG 

Ice    266 

Italian    237 

Muffins    164 

Of  beef   118 

Of  chicken    8(J 

Of  fish 55 

Of  rabbit 1U9 

Peach    265 

Pie  . 218 

Pineapple    2(i5 

Sauce 16 

Sauce,   hygienic    ...      26 

Snow    2"<3 

Spanish    237 

Tapioca   238 

•  Toast   181 

Tsarina    265 

Crisp,  oatmeal 170 

Croquettes. 

Buckeye 1 28 

Fish   52 

Ham   184 

Meat  and  rice 184 

Mush    169 

Salsify   1.52 

Veal   120 

Croustades. 

Little    131:^ 

Of  calf's  brains.  .  .  .   123 

Of  game 106,  107 

Short  paste  for  ....   271 

Crullers 300 

Cucumbers   190 

Catsup 306 

Fried    1.55 

Peas 31 

Pickles    302 

Stewed   155 

Currant. 

Catsup 307 

Jelly    316 

Pie    217 

Sauce 16 

Vinegar   362 

Curry. 
Forcemeat  balls  .  .  .     35 
Rice  for 33 

Custard. 

Cake    287 

Corn    148 

For  pastry   274 

For  profiteroles   .  . .   274 

Lemon    236 

Pie    218 

Pineapple 218 

Sauce 25 

Suggestions  for  235,  236 
Tomato    147 


PAGE 

Custards  and  desserts 

235-274 

Cutlets. 

Chicken    88,   184 

Invalids'    328 

Lamb    .   129,  130,  131. 

132,  133 

Pigeon   97 

Veal   120,   121 

Desserts,    suggestions 

for    235,   23() 

Dinner,  Yankee   boiled  1.56 

Dormers,  chicken ....     90 

Doughnuts,  raised  .  . .   300 

Dressing. 

Chestnut    97 

Cream    214 

For  poultry   80 

Mayonnaise    214 

Salad    214 

Dress,  woolen,  to  clean 
362 

Duck, 
a  la  Provencale.  . .  .     95 

Roast    95,   96 

Wild   96 

Dumplings. 

Apple   224,  225 

Drop   224 

Eclairs  a  la  Palmers- 
ton 206 

Eel  in  jelly    72 

Eels    56 

Egg-plant    152 

Baked    152 

Fried    152 

Eggs. 

a  la  Caracas 175 

a  la  Millais 203 

a  la  Suisse 17(i 

And  cheese   192 

And   cheese  salad..   211 

And  gravy    174 

Brouille   177 

Butter    58 

Forcemeat  balls  ..  .      35 

For  lunch    175 

Fricasseed 175 

Fried    175 

Frothed    176 

In  chaudfroid 204 

Pickled    174 

Plovers',   in   aspic.  .   202 

Pi  ached 174,  176 

Potted    176 

Sandwich 196 

Sauce 17 

Scrambled   175 

Stuffed     176 

Suggestions  for   .  .  .   173 

Eggs,  omelets,  break- 
fast and  tea  dishes 
173—186 

English  plum  pudding  226 

Escallops. 

Chicken    89 

Salmon  murillo    ...      59 

Sweetbread 127 

Turkey 93 


PAGE 

Espagnol  sauce  17 

Farce. 

Beef    30 

Chestnut    31 

Chicken   34 

Fish 31,  32 

Little  creams  of  fish  55 

Little  fish,  for 54 

Liver    32 

Rabbit   34 

Veal   34 

Farina  Melusine 246 

Farine,  sea-moss   ....  250 

Fig. 

Cake   281,  282 

Paste  for  cake  ....  269 

Pudding    231 

Fillets. 

Bass 58 

Beef 114,  115,  116 

Hare    110 

Herring   52,  58 

Sole,  of 60 

Filling 270 

Raisin   270 

Fish    49 

Anchovies   73 

Bass,  black 52 

Bass,  fillets  of   ....  58 

Bread  stuffing  for..  50 

Broil,  to 53 

Cakes 61 

Chartreuse  of 50 

Cod,  balls   55 

Cod,  browned 50 

Cod,  to  cook .54 

Croquettes 52 

Eels   .5(5 

Farce 31,  32,  ,55 

Flounder    01 

Forcemeat  of 36 

Fresh,  to  boil   51 

Fried    50 

Halibut,  smoked  and 

dried   62 

Herrings  52,  53,  56, 

57,  58 

Little   54,  57 

Little  creams  of  .  . .  55 

Little  timbals  of...  .56 

Mackerel 51,  52 

Salad    211 

Salmon   53 

Salmon   murillo,   es- 
callops of 59 

Sardines    .53 

Sardine    sandwiches  5.^ 

Sauce 18,  59 

Sauce,  excellent.  ...  17 

Shadiues .53 

Shrimps 62 

Smelts,  fried 58 

Sole  and  smelts,  fried 

60 

Sole,  fillets  of 60 

Stocks    10 

Suggestions  for.  ...  49 

Toast   .55 

To  dress 51 


INDEX. 


^77 


Pagt. 
l^'isli— Continued. 

Trout,  fried 55 

Tunny    5o 

Wliite 5;^ 

l''liinnel-cjikes     17i) 

Flannel,      scarlet,      to 

wash    oM 

I>''lai)jacks,  corn-nical.  HiH 

Flenr  a  la  Florence  ..  I'GO 

I^'lour,  with  meringue.  251 
Float. 

Ai.i)le    239 

Banana    2i0 

I'^loating'  island    245 

Flounder  de  la   crenie 

hlanc    Gl 

Flour. 

Caudle    320 

iJried,   for  infants..  329 

Flower  cases 252 

Foie  fjras. 

a  la  Chateau  Dore.  lOS 

Ballettes  of 197 

Little  houchecs  of. .  199 

Mousse  of 198 

Souffle  of   197 

Tind)als  of 199 

Fondue 1S5,  190 

a  ritalienne.  ..    190.  191 

Cheese    190 

In  cases   191 

Forcemeat. 

Almond    34 

Baked  pike,  for  ....  35 

Balls    35 

Beef,  of 35 

Chestnut    34 

Fish,  of 3G 

Game,  of   36 

Oyster    3(5 

Sausage,  of   30 

Veal,  of 3(5 

Fowl  sauce 18 

Fresh  fish,  to  boil   ...  51 

Fricassee,  rabbit  ....  110 

Fritters    275,  300 

Corn 148 

Corn-meal    170 

Salsify    1,51 

Sauce  for 1(0 

Squash 1.54 

Tomato  147 

Froiis,  fried   02 

Frosting   270 

Cake,  for  small  sheet 

of 270 

Chocolate   270 

Tutti-frutti   270 

Fruit. 

Cake   279,  280 

List  of 312 

On  cakes 240 

I'o  make  sweet  ....  361 
Furniture,     to     make 

look  new  361 

Game 75 

Croustade  of  ..  106,  107 

Forcemeat  of 36 

Pie   107 


PAOE 

(Jame — Continued. 

Stock   • 10 

Suggestions  for  . .  75,  7(5 

(Jarnishes. 

Asparagus  peas    . . .      30 
Financiere  ........      31 

(Jreen    butter 32 

(Jreen  mayonnaise..     32 

IN)tato  border   32 

Rice    33 

Tomato  aspic 34 

U'onnitocs    34 

Garnishes,  purees,  far- 
ces,   etc 30-36 

Garnishing-creani    .  .  .    273 

Gelatin   icing    2(50 

Gems. 

Corn    165 

Corn-meal    1(55 

(iraham    16.5 

Whole-wheat    .....    1(55 

fiiblet  soup    41,  42 

Gingerbread    .  .  .    294,   295 

Gingercakes,   soft    .  .  .    25)M 

Ginger  ice-cream  ....    2(57 

Gingersnaps 298 

Glace    272 

Bisque    2,50 

Coffee 272 

Maraschino 272 

Gloves,  kid,  to  clean.    3(52 

Glue,   liquid    362 

Goose. 

Boiled   96 

Koast   9(5 

Grape. 

Canned    .S14 

Catsup   307 

Cordial    .320 

Jelly   315,  316 

I»ie     220 

CJ  riddle-cakes. 

Breakfast    180 

Buckwheat  .  .  .    178,  179 
Corn-meal    ....   167,  18(» 

Flannel    179 

Raised    1(57 

Rice 180,  ISl 

R.ye,  breakfast 180 

(Trits  pudding 231 

Gruel. 

Sago    .327 

Wat(.r    .326 

Gumbo,  or  okra   156 

Soup    42 

Halibut. 

Sauce    19 

Smoked  and  dried..     (52 

Ham. 

And  chicken 1.39 

And  egg  lunch  loaf  135 

And  eggs    1.38 

And  veal  pie 121 

Baked    135 

Boiled   135 

Croquettes    IM 

Deviled    13,> 

Fried 135 

Mousse    13(5 


1»AGK 

Ham — Continued. 

Onu'let 178 

Patties l;{5 

Salad    210 

Sandwiches ,    19.5 

Toast   138,    181 

To   boil    13(5 

To  broil 135 

Hand)urg. 

Cream    236 

Steak    113 

Hard  sauce 26 

Hare. 

Blind    110 

Fillets  of 110 

Harvest  drink    320 

Hasty  pudding 231 

Hash. 

Potato  and  beef....  183 
Veal,  egged    122 

Headcheese 140 

Herring. 

P'illets  of    ,52,  .58 

Loaf •  5(5 

Mariinided    ,51,  .57 

Marinaded  fillets  of.     .53 

Hickory-nut  cake    .  . .    2.S7 

Hoe-cake,  southern  . .  167 

Hominv    182 

Bread 1(51 

Fried    182 

Steamed    182 

Honey    186 

Hors-d'oeuvres    7  4 

Horse-radish. 

Sauce    19 

To  prei)are 189 

Hotclipotch,  English..     41 

Household    hints    and 

recipes    3(30—3(55 

Huckleberry  pie    ....    219 

Ice-cream    26(5 

Caramel 2(56 

Ginger    267 

Pistachio 267 

Witlnnit  eggs 267 

Ices    2(52 

Cambridge  bond)   .  .   2(58 

Cherry-wafer    2(54 

Coloring  for 277 

Cream,  peach 2(5.5 

Cream,   tsarina 265 

Cream,     Versailles 

Pineapple    2(5.5 

Fedora  bomb    2()2 

Lemon   262 

Lemon-water    2(54 

Molds  for   ....   369—37.2 

Orange 2()2 

Princess  basket  .  . .  2(54 
Princess  melon  ....  263 
Raspberry-water  .  .  2(5.3 
Rosseline  bomb  .  . .  266 
Sherbet,  lemon  ....  2(58 
Sherbet,  orange  .  .  .  2()9 
Sherbet,    pineapple.    268 

Sorbet    2(38 

Strawberry-water  ..  263 
Sultana  rolls   269 


li^DEX. 


PAGE 

Ices — Continued. 
T  i  ra  b  a  1,      Empress 

Frederick 267 

Ices,  creams,  sherbets. 

etc 2(V2 

Ice-water  cups 2G9 

Icing    2(i9 

Almond     272 

Boiled    1:09 

Cliocolate 269,  272 

Gelatin,  for  cakes..   269 

Iloyal    272 

Vienna    272 

Invalid    cookery.. 32.5— ,330 

Invalids'  cutlet 328 

Invalids'  lemonade   .  .   328 

Invalids'  soup   328 

Iron  rust,  to  remove.   362 
Jam. 

Blackberry    315 

Plum   and   apple...   315 

Raspberrv    315 

Sauce    24 

Jars. 

To  fill    312 

To  seal  up  312 

Jelly    311 

As{)ic    12 

Cake   281,  283 

Calves'  feet    328 

Cranberry   315 

Currant    316 

Eel   in    72 

Grape   315,  316 

Mulled    328 

Pie    220 

Rhubarb   and   apple  316 
Suggestions   for    .  ..  311 

Tapioca   328 

Johnny-cake. 

Saratoga    1G7 

Sweet    167 

Jumbles    300 

Junket    330 

Kidneys    141 

Kisses    299 

Kitchen  utensils,  nec- 
essary     344,   345 

Knives,  to  clean  ....   360 

Ladyfingers    299 

Lamb. 
Chops  a  la  Trianon  128 
Cutlets  129,  130.  131, 

132,  133 

Spiced    130 

Steaks,   fried    130 

Lard. 

-   To  keep  fresh  360 

To  keep  sweet   ....   363 
Larks. 

a  la  Reyniere 104 

a  la  Sotterville  ....   103 

In  baskets   105 

I^aundry-work    .   356 — 359 
Lemon. 

Custard    236 

Custard  pie    218 

Extract,  to  make   .   364 
Ice    262 


PAGE 

Lemon — Continued. 

Jelly    cake    281 

Pickled    304 

Pie    218 

Pudding     225 

Sauce 20,  26,  27 

Sherbet    268 

Vinegar   319 

Water-ice    264 

Lemonade    319 

Flaxseed    328 

Invalids'    328 

Lettuce   salad    213 

Lima  beans   149 

Liver. 

Braised    122 

Calf's,  and  V)acon .  .   122 

Calf's,  braised    122 

Chicken    89 

.  Farce    32 

Fried    124 

Loaf. 

Beef    114 

Ham  and   egg   ....    135 
Veal    120 

Lobster, 
a  la  Bordelaise  ....      70 
a  la  Boulevard  ....      70 

a  la  Cannes   dii 

a  la   Newburf^-    ....      71 

a  la  St.  Cloud 67 

Little  bombs  of  .  . .      69 

Salad   66,  68,  211 

Sauce    20 

Luting-paste    271 

Macaroni. 

Stewed     154 

Timbal  of   1.54 

With  cheese   ..'....   155 

Macaroons    298 

Mackerel    51 

Salt    52 

Mango  pickles,   sweet  303 

Maplek 

Cakes    207 

Syrup    27 

Maraschino. 

Glace    272 

Mousse    273 

Marble. 

Cake   278,  279 

To  clean   363 

Marshmallow  cake  ..   287 

Mayonnaise. 

Aspic    20 

Dressing    214 

Green    32 

Sauce    20 

Meat   111—141 

And   potatoes    184 

Brunswick   stew    .  .   118 

Hashed  cold    184 

Jellied    117 

Omelet    187 

Suggestions  for  111,  112 

Melon  a  la  Duchesse.   2.55 

Meringues   298 

Almond,  mixture    ..  27-4 
American    242 


PAGE 

Meringues— Continued. 

Apricot    239 

Mushroom    243 

Mildew,  to  take  out..  361 
Milk. 

Peptonized    330 

Soup    42 

Sponge-bread    .  . . .  ;   161 

Toast   181 

Mince-meat 222,  223 

Mince  pie 237 

Mince  pie,  mock   ....   222 

Mock-turtle   soup    .  . .     43 

Forcemeat  balls  for     35 

Mokas,   little    245 

Molds  for  creams  and 

ices    369 — 372 

Mosquitos,  to  keep  off  362 

Moths    360 

Mousse. 

Foie  gras,  of   198 

Ham     136 

Maraschino    273 

Muffins    164 

Buttermilk    164 

Cream    i64 

Graham,  Park  House 

164 

St.  Charles  corn  . .  .   165 
Whole- wheat    flour.   164 
Mush. 

Biscuit    185 

Corn-meal    170 

Croquettes    169 

Fried   169,  170 

Mushrooms    18.5 

Baked    152 

Broiled 1.53 

Catsup    308 

Meringues    243 

Puree   of    33 

Sauce   21,  29 

Stewed    152 

Mustard    308 

Aromatic    308 

French    308 

Prepared    189 

Relish    188 

Sauce    21 

Spiced    309 

Tomato    308 

Wafers    300 

Mutton. 

Double  haunch   128 

Leg  of,  baked 129 

Neck  of 134 

Soup    43 

Stew  and  green  peas  127 

Napery    346—348 

Nasturtium  vinegar   .   310 
Noodles  for  soup   ...     43 

'Noodle  soup    43 

Nougat  baskets    258 

Nougat  paste   271 

Nouilles   224 

Nut-cake    287 

Oatmeal. 

Crisp 170 

To  cook 182 


INDEX. 


379 


PAGE 

Odors,  to  froo  <i  house  oUl 
Oil,  s('\\iiifj;-iiiiichiiu',  to 

rcinovo    ; .  o(jO 

Okia    1-")(J 

Soup    41 

Olives    U4 

Biiiised    30 

Pol  !i  toes     113 

Omelet    173 

Apple    177 

Baked    178 

Creamy    177 

French    177 

Green-eoru    17.S 

Ham    17S 

Meat    178 

rhiin    178 

Tuff    177 

With  ham    178 

Onion. 

Piekle    304 

Relish     187 

Salad    212 

Sauce  14,  188 

Stew     150 

Stuffed    150 

To  boil   150 

Orange. 

Cake   288 

Dessert    248 

Ice    262 

riKhling    225.  22(i 

Sauce    27 

Sherbet    2()i) 

Souffle    252 

Orangeade    328 

Orgeat     330 

Ostrich-feathers,    to 

clean    301 

Ox-tail  soup 44 

Ox-tonguo,   boiled    .  .  .  110 

Oysters   4'J 

a   la  Dumas    <')3 

Broiled    74 

Corn    149 

Forcemeat    3(j 

Fried     05 

Little  bombs  of   .  .  .     02 

Pie    64 

Pot-pie    6;> 

Salad    211 

Sauce    21 

Scalloped    63 

Scalloped    vegetable  152 

Soup    44 

Tomato 147 

Vegetable    151 

Oysters  and  fish.  .   49 — 74 
Paint,  to  take  off  ch)the.^ 

3(51 

Palac  sint   231 

Piinada,   chicken    ....  327 

Panard    271 

Pancakes    179 

Bread    179,  180 

Cern-meal     179 

French    179 

Paper,  tracing 361 

Parmesan  rings  ..,,,  191 


PAGE 

Parsley   sauce    22 

I'arsnips    1.53 

To  cook   153 

Partridge,    roast    101 

Paste    2()9 

Almond    meringue 

mixture    274 

Anchovy  biscuit    ...    271 

( 'houx    271 

I<Mg,   for  cake 269 

Florence    271 

For  croustades    ....  271 

Fruit  tart 270 

Genoise    272 

Luting    271 

Nougat     271 

Puff   224,   271 

Scrap-book    360 

Short    270,    271 

Pastes,   icings,   etc....  269 

Pastry    potatoes    ....    2tt0 

Patties. 

Beef    18-1 

Cocoanut    299 

Ham    135 

Potato    234 

Peaches. 

Fresh    2()  1 

Canned 31  ! 

Collider    233 

Cream    265 

Pie    217 

Sauce    27 

Sweet-pickled    .304 

Peafowls    100 

Pears. 

Baked    2.52 

Canned    315 

I'reserved    313 

Stewed    .  .., 247 

Peas. 

Asparagus    30 

Cucumber    31 

Green,   puree  of....      46 

Green,    sauce    19 

Green,   soup    42 

Soup    44 

Pepitoria     !)0 

I'epper. 

Pickled    304 

Pot  (soup) 45 

Sauce    22 

Pheasant. 

Beignets  of    102 

Pie    102 

Supreme  of 101 

Piccalilli    305 

Pickles    SOI 

Artichokes    305 

Bottled    302 

Cantaloup  (sweet). .   303 

Chopped    302 

Chow-chow    305 

Cucumber    302 

Cucumber    (sweet)..  .303 

Lemons    304 

Mango  (sweet)   ....   303 

Onion    .304 

Peaches  (sweet)  .  , ,   304 


I'AGE 

Pickles — Continued. 

Peppers    .304 

Piccalilli    ;!05 

Suggestions  for    .  .  .    301 

Tiptop    305 

To  clarify    302 

To  keep  from  getting 

soft    302 

Tomato,  green    ....   303 

Pickles    and     catsups 

301—310 

Pies    215 

Apple    217 

Apple-custard    218 

Beefsteak    222 

Boiled-cider     22(1 

Cheese-cake    220 

Cherry    217 

Chess    220 

Chicken    87 

Cocoanut    219 

Corn-starch    219 

Cream    21 S 

Crust    21<; 

Crust,  chicken    ....   222 

Currant    217 

Custard    218 

Game,   cold    107 

Grape    220 

Huckleberry    219 

.Telly    220 

Lemon     218 

Lemon-custard    ....  218 

Mince    237 

Mince-meat    for  222,223 

j\L)ck   mince    222 

Oyster    64 

Peach    217 

Pheasant    102 

Pigeon    9t') 

Pineapple    221 

Pot    222 

Potato,    L-ish    221 

Potato,  sweet 221 

Pumpkin     219 

Baisin    219 

liaspbei-rv    219 

Bhubarb    219 

Shells    21(i 

Squash    221 

Suggestions    for  215, 21(i 

Tomato    221 

Transparent    220 

Veal  and  ham 121 

Vinegar   220 

Pies     and     puddings 

215-234 

Pigeon. 

Cutlets  of   97 

Pie     96 

Boast    97 

Pig's   feet    138 

Pilau  a   la  Grecque.  .    219 

Pineapple    2.38 

Clieese    193 

Cream    2(»5 

Custard    218 

Pie    221 

Preserves    .,,.,,,.   31-') 


380 


INDEX. 


PAGE 

Pineapple — Continued. 

Pudding    225 

Sherbet    2(i« 

Trilie    240 

Pistachio   ica-cream...    2G7 

Plum. 

Canned    ''^W 

Pudding    226 

Pone,  corn   168 

Pork. 

Barbecued    139 

Chops   138 

Potage. 

a  la  Royale 45 

de   saute    45 

Julienne    45 

Parmentier    45 

Potato. 

Border    32 

Bread    160 

Cakes    144 

Past  A',  luodern   ....    233 

Patties    234 

Pie,   Irish    221 

Pie,  sweet   221 

Puree    33 

Salad    212 

Souffle    145 

Soup    46 

Stuffing    97 

Tarts,  sweet 223 

Potatoes, 
a  la  Dumanoir    ....  145 

a   I'Alhert    145 

And  meat   184 

Browned    144 

Creamed    144 

Cupped    144 

Fried    144 

Mashed  Irish    143 

Olive    143 

Pastry    260 

Puree  of   33 

Quirled    144 

Saratoga    113 

Scalloped    145 

Stewed    144 

Sweet,  baked   146 

Sweet,   fried    145 

Sweet,    mock    146 

Pot-pie    222 

Oyster    63 

Poultry. 

Dressing  for 81) 

Suggestions   for.   75,    76 

Poultry  and  game  75—110 

Pound-cake    290 

Practical    suggestions 

331—334 

Preserves    31. 1 

Citron    313 

Citron  and  quince..  313 
List  of  fruit  in    .  .  .   312 

Pears    313 

Pineapple    313 

Strawberries   314 

Suggestions  for  311,  312 

.   Tomato    313 

■Y^^atermeloQ   •■•■:•  312 


PAGE 

Preserves    and   jellies 

311—316 

Pudding    215 

Apple,  baked    225 

Apricot    228 

Arrowroot    329 

Bird's  nest 229 

Brown  Betty    229 

Cherry    225 

Chocolate    229 

College    229 

Cottage    231 

Cranberry    226 

Delicious    231 

Fig    231 

French    230 

Grits    231 

Hasty    231 

Kentucky    230 

Lemon    225 

Minute    230 

Neapolitan    230 

Orange    225,  226 

Pineapple    225 

Plum    226 

Plum,  English    226 

Queen  of    230 

Raspberry    231 

Rice     22() 

Rice  and  tapioca   .  .    227 

Rice,  delicate 227 

Sauce    28 

Snow    229 

Spice,  steamed   ....   229 

Stale-cake    228 

Suggestions    for  215,216 
Tapioca 227,  228 

Puffets  for  tea .  .' 171 

Puff  omelet   177 

Puffs. 

Corn-meal   171 

German    170 

Paste    224,   271 

Pumpkin   pie    219 

Puree. 
Iced  strawberry   .  ..  269 

Mushrooms   33 

Potatoes    33 

Spring  herbs,   of .  .  .      46 

Timbals  of  fish 56 

Tomato    34 

Tongue    34 

Quail. 

a  la  Lesseps 99 

a  la  Tosca  98 

Broiled     98 

Potted     100 

Roast    98 

Salmis    100 

Quenelles    46,    101 

Chicken,   of 33 

Rabbit,  of 33 

Veal,  of   33 

White  and   clear  soups, 
for    46 

Quinces  and  apples,  can- 
ning    314 

Rabbit. 
Cream  Of ,,.  109 


PAGK 

Rabbit — Continued. 

Farce    84 

Fricassee    110 

Quenelles  of 33 

Stew    109 

Stewed    123 

Rags,  to  color  yellow.   364 

Raguse  sauce   28 

Raisin. 

Filling   270 

Pie    219 

To  prepare  for  cake  277 

Ramekins   191 

a  la  Parisienne  .  . .  192 
Fried    192 

Rarebit,  Welsh 183 

Raspberry. 

.Jam    315 

Pie    219 

Pudding   231 

Vinegar    320,   363 

AVater-ice    26.3 

Relishes    187—208 

Apples,   fried    189 

Apples,  glace,  baked  190 
Artichokes,    plain    .   208 

Carrots,   new    20.5 

Celery    189 

Cheese   192,  193 

Cream  a  I'lndienne.  207 

Cucumbers    190 

Devonshire    187 

Eclairs    a    la     Pal- 

merston    206 

Eggs  a  la  Millais .  .  203 
Eggs  and  cheese  .  .  192 
Eggs  in  chaudfroid.  204 
Eggs,     plovers',     in 

aspic    202 

Foie  gras.   197,  198,  199 

Fondue 190,  191 

Horse-radish,  to  pre- 
pare       189 

Mustard 188,  189 

Onion     187 

Parmesan  rings   .  . .    191 

Ramekins 191,  192 

Rhubarb    189 

Sandwiches  194.  195, 

196,   197 

Sauces   188 

Souffle  a  la  Margue- 
rite       206 

Swans  a  la  Phrygienue 

204 

Timbals    200,   201 

Water-cress    189 

Rhubarb    189 

Pie   219 

Rice. 

a  rimperial 232 

Borders,  for .3.3 

Cake    181,    294 

Curry,  for 3S 

French    251 

Griddle-cakes 180 

Pudding    226,   227 

Soup    47 

>   Waffles    ,, im 


INDEX. 


381 


PAGE 

Koast. 

Chiokcn    SC. 

Diuk    !>•". 

(^.osc    SXi 

P:irtri(l>;(' 101 

Pijivon    U7 

Quail i>>S 

Sparoril)    1-iU 

Steak    117 

Turkey    !>;J 

Veal    122 

Kolls. 

CnliW     182 

Parker   House    1(« 

Spiee<l     H«;{ 

Sultana    2*'.!) 

Tea    Ki.". 

Koiuau  saucH'    22 

Kusks    Kio 

Dried     Ki.'J 

Kust,  to  riuiujve  from 

tiat-irons     301 

Rye. 

Bread    Ifc' 

Breakfast  caki^s  .  .  .    ISO 

Salad    lioy— 214 

Artiehoke    213 

Beet    212 

(\>lery    213 

Chiiken     210 

Dressins    2t  1 

KgK  and  cheese   ...    211 

Fish    211 

Ham     210 

Lettuce    213 

Lobster 6G.  G8,   211 

Onion    212 

Oyster    211 

Pbtato    212 

Salmon    210 

Salsify    213 

Sauce,   French    18 

Slaw    214 

SlaAy.    cream    dress- 
ing for    214 

Strawberry    213 

SuKiiestions  for    .  .  .    2()9 

Tomato    212 

Sally-lunn    1S2 

Salmagundi    140 

Salmis  of  chicken   ...      83 

Salmis  of  quails 100 

Salmis   sauce    22 

Salmon    53 

Escallops  niurilio  ..      50 

Salad     210 

Salsify    151 

Boiled    151 

Croquettes    152 

Flitters    151 

In  salad  or  aspic   . .    213 

Salad    213 

Sauce    22 

Salt-rising  bread    ....  1()1 

Salt,  spiced   309 

Sandwiches. 

a  la  Fiane   190 

a  la  Louise   195 

a  la  Victoria   191 


1»AGE 

Sandwiches— Continued. 

Cheese    19(5 

Esf?    lOf. 

Ham     1!»5 

Sardine 53,   190 

Tongue     107 

Turkey    10.'» 

Saratoga   johnny-cake  lOi 
Saratoga  potatoes  .  . .    113 

Sardines    53 

Sardine  sandwich.    53,19(5 

Sauces    11-29 

American     11 

Anchoyy  cream  ....  11 
Anchoyy.  for  fish  .  11 
Angelic  (sweet)    ...      24 

Apple    11 

Apricot  iam  (sweet)     24 

Artichoke    12 

Asparagus    12 

Asi)aragus   Snedoise  ISS 

Aspic   cream    12 

Aspic  jelly    12 

Aux     quatre     fruits 

(sweet)    28 

Bearnaise    13 

Bechamel    13.  18 

Bordeaux     13 

Bread    11 

Brown    14 

Caper    15 

Celery    15 

Chaponay    15 

Chaudfroid    15 

Cheese    cream  (sweet) 

25 

Chestnut    14,  24 

Chilli    15 

Claret     15 

Clarified  butter 10 

Courte   (sweet)    ....      25 

Cranberry    1(),    18S 

Cream    10 

Currant    10 

Custard  (sweet)  ...  25 
Czarina  (sweet)   ...      25 

,  Deyil    10 

Drawn-butter    17 

Drawn-butter    (sweet » 

2.5 

Duchess  (sweet)    ...     2.5 

Dutch     17 

Egg    17 

Egg,  for  chicken   .  .     8-5 

Espagnol    IV 

Financiere    (sweet).      25 

Fish   18.  59 

Fish,  excellent   ....      17 

*    Fowl    IS 

Fritters,  for 170 

(ierman  (sweet)   ...      20 

(ireen-pea    19 

Halibut    19 

Hard  (sweet)    2(5 

Horse-radish    19 

Hubert  (sweet)  ....  20 
Hygienic  (sweet)  ..  20) 
Iced  champagne  .  .  19 
Irlaudaise  (hot)   ...     19 


PAGK 

Sauces — Continued. 

Jam  (sweet)    24 

Lemon 20 

Lemon   (sweet) .  .   20,  27 

Lobster    20 

Magenta  (sweet)  .  .  27 
Maitre  d'hotel  ....  20 
Maple  syrup   (sweet)    27 

JMayoiinaise     20 

Mayonnaise  aspic   ..     2(J 

Melted-butter    2(,' 

Mushroom    21 

Mushroom,        white 

(sweet)    29 

Mustard    21 

Nesle   (sweet)    27 

Onion   14,  188 

Orange   (sweet)    ...      27 

Oyster    21 

I'arsley    22 

Peach  (sweet)    27 

Pepper    22 

Puilding  (sweet)  ...  28 
Itaguse  (sweet)  ...  28 
Kexford  (sweet)  ...     28 

Roman    22 

Rubanee  (sweet)    .  .     28 

Salad,  French  18 

Salmis    22 

Salsify    22 

Shad-roe    23 

Snowflake   23 

Spiced  (sweet)  ....  29 
Suedoise   (sweet)    .  .      29 

Sugar  (sweet)    29 

Supreme    23 

Tartare    23 

Tomato    2.3 

Tomato  butter  ....  23 
A'anilla    (sweet)    ...      29 

Veloute    23 

Vinaigrette    21 

Vinegar  (sweet)  .  . .  29 
Wellington  (sweet).      29 

White    24 

Worcestershire.  ..  19.  24 

Sauer-kraut   1.5.5 

To  cook 1.55 

Sausage    140 

Bologna    140 

Breaded    184 

Forcemeat  of 3(5 

Saute,  chicken    ...   83.  93 
Sauted  nniscot,  chicken 

93 

Scones    KiS 

Scorch,  to  take  out..    3(50 

Scrapple    13S 

Sea-moss   farine    ....   2.50 

Shadines    5.3 . 

Shad-roe  sauce    23 

Sheep's   tongue    119 

Sherbet    2(>S 

I^emon    208 

Orange    2(i9 

Pineapple    2(i8 

Shortca  ke.    stra  wberry 

232,  233 

Shrimps    , 02 


382 


INDEX. 


PAGR 

Silver,  to  clean   361 

Sippets    3>>i) 

Sirloin  of  beef   1 13 

Skewers,    garnished 

366—368 

Slaw. 

Cold   214 

Sweet    214 

Warm    214 

Smelts,   fried    58,   60 

Snow. 

Balls   299 

Cream    273 

Dish  of 24,5 

Flake  sauce 23 

Pudding 229 

Soda. 

Biscuit    . 163 

Crackers    165 

Cream    319 

Water    319 

Sole. 

And  smelts,   fried.  .  60 

Fillets  of 60 

Sorbet    26S 

SoufHe. 

a  la  Marguerite  .  . .  206 

Foie   gras    197 

Orange    252 

Potato    115 

Strawberry    261 

Soup 37 — 18 

Beef    38 

Bisque  of  mutton   .  38 

Bouillon    39 

Bread    39 

Chicken    3i) 

Chicken  broth    40 

Clam    39 

Clear    .'^9 

Consomme    40 

Corn    41 

Cream  of  barley    .  .  41 
Crecy,     with    whole 

rice    41 

Giblet    41 

Giblet  (German)    .  .  42 

Green-pea    42 

Gumbo    42 

Hotchpotch,   English  41 

Invalids'    327 

Jenny   Lind's    42 

Milk    .  .• 42 

Mock-turtle    43 

Mongole    13 

Mutton     43 

Noodle   43 

Noodles    for    4.3 

Okra    44 

Ox-tail    4-' 

Oyster    44 

Pea    44 

Pepper  pot 45 

Potage  a  la  Royale.  ,  45 

Potage  de  saute  ...  4.5 

Potage  .Tulienne    .  .  45 

Potage    Parmentier.  45 

Potato     46 

Pnreo  of  green  pea?  46 


PAGE 

Soup— Continued. 
Puree  of  spring  herbs 

46 

Quenelles     46 

Itice    47 

Stock  for    9 

Suggestions  for  .   37,  38 

Tomato    47 

Turtle    47 

Veal  broth,   brown.     47 

Vegetable    47 

Venison,   brown    ...      48 

Vermicelli    48 

White    48 

Sparerib,   roast   140 

Spinach    1.5(; 

Sponge-cake    .  .  .   283,   291 
Spring  herbs,  puree  of    46 

Spun   sugar    2.59 

Squash. 

Baked    ■.  . . 15] 

Dried    154 

Fritters    1.54 

Hubbard,  baked  .  . .   153 

Pie    221 

Summer,  to -cook  ..    153 

Squirrel,  broiled 110 

Starch    3-59 

Polish    361 

To  remove  from  flat- 
irons   36] 

Steak. 

Hamburg   113 

Roast    117 

Stew. 

Breakfast    183 

Mutton    127 

Onion    1,50 

Rabbit   109 

Stock    10 

Economic    9 

Fish     10 

Game    10 

Suggestions  for   ....     9 

White   10 

Stocks  for  soup,  gravv, 

etc    9,   W 

Stovepipes,  to  clean..   360 

Stove-polish    362 

Strawberries. 

Acid    319 

Cake,  French 233 

Canning    31 1 

Charlotte    243 

Iced  puree 269 

Preserved    ;sl4 

Shortcake 232,  233 

Salad    213 

SoufBe    261 

Water-ice    263 

String-beans    149 

Strudel    233 

Stuffing. 

Apple    95 

For  turkev   94 

Potato    97 

Succotash    149 

Sugar. 
Pauce  ,,,,.,,...,,,     29 


PAGE 

Sugar— Continued. 

Snaps    229 

Spun    259 

Sultana  rolls    269 

Swans  a  la  Phrygienne 

^      204 

Sweetbread   126 

a  la  Financiere  ....    126 
a  rimperatrice   ....  125 

Escallops  of 127 

Larded  and  stuffed.  126 

Timbal  of   124 

With    mushrooms    .    126 

Syrup,   maple   27 

Tapioca. 

Cream    238 

Jelly    328 

Pudding 227,  228 

Tarragon  vinegar   .  .  .    310 

Tartare  sauce    23 

Tartlets,  apple   223 

Tar,  to  remove ;,60 

Tarts    223 

Crust   for    223 

Fruit,  short  paste  for 

270 

Sand    300 

Sweet-potato    223 

Tea    318 

Balls    318 

Beef  327 

Cakes    297 

Dishes    173 

Pot,  to  clean    .....    361 

Rolls   163 

Tenderloin, 
a  la  Jardiniere  ....   134 

Minions   of    115 

Of  beef   112 

Thread-lace,  to  wash.   363 
Timbal. 
a  la  Belle  Eugenie^   201 

a  la  Christina 248 

a  la  Florence 250 

a  la  .Jardiniere  ....   200 

a  la  Mathild 253 

a  la  Windsor   .....   201 

Chestnuts    244 

Empress    Frederick.  267 

Foie  gras  199 

Little,  of  fish 56 

Macaroni    154 

Rosamond    2.54 

Sweetbread    124 

Tinware. 

To  brighten   362 

To  scour 360 

Tiptop  pickle    305 

Toast. 

And  water   327 

Cream    181 

Fish     55 

Ham   138,  181 

Milk    181 

Savory    181 

Tomato    147 

Tomatoes    1 1(! 

Aspic    34 

Baked   ,,.,, 147 


INDEX. 


883 


I'ACtE 

Tomatoos — ContiiuH'd. 

ButtiT   23,  315 

Cjitsiip    30(1 

Custard    14 i 

F<ir  fianiislihig  ....  34 

Fritters     147 

Mustard    3()S 

Oyster.s    147 

Pickle,   groou    303 

Pie   221 

Preserves    313 

Puree    34 

Salad    212 

►Sauce    23 

Soup    4 V 

Spiced    310 

Stew,  Indian   14ft 

Stuffed    140 

Toast    147 

Tongues. 

Beef 110 

Beef  or  sheep's  ....  11!) 

Chicken,   for    77 

Little,   and   chicken.  79 
Little,   in    chaudfroid 

121 

I'uree   34 

Sandwich    107 

Tracing-paper    3(51 

Trifle 241 

Pineapple    240 

Plain    242 

Tripe. 

Broiled    132 

Fried    132 

Stewed    131 

Trout,  fried   55 

Tunny-fish    53 

Turkey. 

Cold    94 

Roast    93 


I'AGE 

Tnrke.v — Continued. 

Sandwich    195 

Scallop    93 

Stutiing  for    94 

Turkish  cement    3(!2 

Turnips    151 

Turtle  soup    47 

Vanilla. 

Bavarois(>    241 

Sauce    29 

Veal. 

And  ham  pie   121 

Breast  of    120 

Broth,  brown    47 

Broth    for   invalids.   320 

Croquettes    120 

Cutlets,  broiled 121 

Cutlets   pi(iues    ....    120 

Farce    34 

Forcemeat  (if    30 

Hash,   esged    122 

Jellied    1S4 

Loaf    120 

Quenelles  of .33 

Ragout  of 11'.) 

Ressoles    120 

Roast    122 

Vegetables    142—150 

Veloute  sauce    23 

Venison  soup,  brown.     48 
Vermicelli    soup    ....     48 

Vinegar   .3(34 

Celery    310 

Currant    .302 

Lemon    319 

Nasturtium    310 

Pie    220 

Raspberry    . .  .   320,   3(i3 

Sauce    29 

Spiced    .309 

Tarragon    -310 


PAGE 

Vol-au-vent     257 

Waters     300 

;Mustard    300 

Wallies    KiO,   ISO 

Corn-meal  and  rice.  109 
Flour  and  Indian  ..  109 
Rice    180 

Washing. 

('ompound    3(54 

I*repara1i<in     3(i4 

To  make  easy   3(51 

Water. 

Cologne    .301 

Crackers    100 

Cress    189 

Watermelon. 

Cake 293 

I'reserves    ,312 

Wedding    fruit-cake..  280 

Weevil,  to  keep  out  of 

beans    302 

Weights  and  measures 
355 

Wellington   sauce    ...      29 

Welsh   rarebit    183 

Wheat,  cracked   182 

Whey   329 

Bread    101 

Whitefish    .53 

Wings  of  fowls 305 

AVorcestershire. 

Catsup    307 

Sauce  19,  24 

Yarn,  to  color  yellow.  3(54 

Yeast. 

Cakes    172 

Dried    172 

.Tug    ITl 

Wet    172 

Witliout  hops 171 

Y'orkshire  buck 18G 


H    50    89  -i 


.1°* 


V  ..i5i'.  ^       4,0*  .;••.  "> 


^^-^K.  ••.'* 


«-i<^^ 


.'^9^ 


^^^4>'' 


\<^' 


''bv^      .''^ 


«^o^ 


5°* 


Wy  \W'/  \'Wy  \Wy 
^.  co*,.>i^.x.  y..^u:.v  oov>^.x  y.- 


.•1<2<. 


*^^*' 


o_   % 


