New  Book  of 


Cookery 


Fannie Merritt Farmer 


LIBRARY 

Of 

CALIFORNIA 


THE  LIBRARY 

OF 

THE  UNIVERSITY 
OF  CALIFORNIA 

AGRICULTURE 
BEQUEST 

OF 
ANITA  D.  S.  BLAKE 


A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 


A  NEW  BOOK  OF 
COOKERY 


BY 


FANNIE  MERRITT  FARMER 

Of  Mi**  Farmers  School  of  Cookery 

AUTHOR  OF  "THE  BOSTON  COOKING  SCHOOL  COOK  BOOK" 
"Fooo  AND  COOKERY  FOR  THE  SICK  AND  CONVA- 
LESCENT/' AND  "  CHAFING-DISH  POSSIBILITIES  " 


EIGHT  HUNDRED  AND  SIXTY  RECIPES,  COVERING  THE 
WHOLE   RANGE   OF  COOKERY,  EIGHT   COLORED 
PLATES,  AND  Two  HUNDRED  AND  TWENTY- 
SIX  HALF-TONE  ILLUSTRATIONS 


BOSTON 

LITTLE,  BROWN,  AND   COMPANY 
1912 


Copyright, 
BY  FANNIE  MERRITT  FARMER. 


All  rights  reserved 
Published,  October,  1912 


AGRICULTURE 
GIFT 

THE   UNIVERSITY   PRESS,    CAMBRIDGE,    U.  S.  A. 


AGRIC. 
_,3RAW 


"  The  art  of  cookery,  when  not  allied  with  a  degenerate 
taste  or  irilh  glut tout/,  is  one  of  the  criteria  of  a  jwople's 
civilization." 

"  We  grow  like  what  we  eat  ; 

Bad  food  depresses,  good  food  exalts   us  like  an 
inspiration." 


123 


PREFACE 

WITH  the  advancement  of  the  art  of  cookery, 
it  has  become  impossible  to  compress  within 
the  limits  of  a  single  volume  the  wealth  of  material 
which  is  at  hand.  It  is  now  seventeen  years  since 
The  Boston  Cooking-School  Cook  Book  was  first 
published.  Since  that  time  it  has  been  frequently 
revised  and  a  large  number  of  new  recipes  added, 
first  in  the  form  of  an  appendix  and  addenda,  later 
incorporated  in  logical  order  throughout  the  volume. 
But  the  results  of  the  labors  and  experiments  of 
the  last  seven  years  have,  I  believe,  justified  the 
publication  of  an  entirely  new  work.  It  will  be 
understood  that  this  new  work  is  in  no  sense  a  sub- 
stitute for  my  earlier  one,  but  rather  a  sequel. 
It  is,  let  me  repeat,  a  comprehensive  survey  of  the 
progress  of  the  last  few  years  and  contains  recipes 
economical  and  simple  as  well  as  expensive  and  elab- 
orate, covering  the  whole  range  of  cookery. 

My  earnest  hope  is  that  the  book  will  fulfil  a 
real  and  vital  need.  I  cannot  send  it  forth  without 
an  expression  of  sincere  appreciation  for  the  kindly 
aid  of  enthusiastic  pupils  and  devoted  teachers. 

F.  M.  F. 

BOSTON,  September,  1912. 


TABLE  OF  CONTENTS 

CHAPTER  PA<JE 

I    How   TO    MEASURE   AND    COMBINE 

INGREDIENTS 1 

II    BEVERAGES 5 

III  RAISED  BREAD  MIXTURES 14 

IV  QUICK  BREADS,  MUFFINS,  AND  DOUGH- 

NUTS    25 

V    CEREAL,  CHEESE,  AND   VEGETARIAN 

DISHES r 38 

VI    EGGS 53 

VII    SOUPS  AND  SOUP  ACCOMPANIMENTS   .  64 

VIII    FISH 79 

IX    BEEF 107 

X    LAMB  AND  MUTTON 120 

XI    VEAL  AND  SWEETBREADS 125 

XII    PORK 132 

XIII  POULTRY 139 

XIV  GAME 146 

XV    STUFFINGS  FOR  GAME  AND  POULTRY  .  151 

XVI    MEAT  AND  FISH  SAUCES 154 

XVII    VEGETABLES 161 

XVIII    POTATOES 182 

XIX    SALADS 194 

XX    SALAD  DRESSINGS  212 


PAGE 


X  TABLE  OF  CONTENTS 

CHAPTER 

XXI    ENTREES 219 

XXII    HOT  PUDDINGS 245 

XXIII  PUDDING  SAUCES 257 

XXIV  COLD  DESSERTS 265 

XXV    FROZEN  DESSERTS 281 

XXVI    PASTRY  AND  PIES 304 

XXVII    PASTRY  DESSERTS 312 

XXVIII    GINGERBREADS,  COOKIES,  AND  WAFERS  319 

XXIX     CAKE 32g 

XXX    CAKE  FILLINGS  AND  FROSTINGS  .    .    .  345 

XXXI     CONFECTIONS 355 

XXXII    HORS-D'(EUVRES 372 

XXXIII  SANDWICHES      381 

XXXIV  FRUITS:      FRESH,    PRESERVED,    AND 

CANNED 391 

XXXV    PICKLING 401 

XXXVI    SUITABLE  COMBINATIONS  FOR  SERV- 
ING      411 

INDEX 421 


ILLUSTRATIONS 

Planked  Rump  Steak.    In  Color     ....  Frontispiece 

FACING  PAGE 

Necessary  Utensils  for  Correct  Measurements      .  2 

Five  O'Clock  Tea  Tray  3 

Accompaniments  to  the  Five  O'Clock  Cup  of  Tea  3 

Luncheon  Coffee 8 

Swedish  Nut  Wafers,  Marguerite  Squares,  Peanut 

Wafers      8 

Marshmallow  Chocolate 9 

Iced  Fruit  Juice      9 

Moette  Punch 12 

Fruit  Punch  with  WTiipped  Cream 12 

Ginger  Ale  Cup 13 

Claret  Cup 13 

Currant  Loaf 16 

Cincinnati  Coffee  Bread 16 

The  Method  of  Rasping 17 

Rasped  Rolls 17 

The  Shaping  of  Crossett  Rolls 20 

Crossett  Rolls     . 20 

Butterfly  Rolls 21 

Moravian  Bread  ready  for  the  Oven 21 

Fried  Bread 24 

Raised  Doughnuts 24 

The  Shaping  of  Holland  Brioche  Cakes     ....  25 

Holland  Brioche  Cakes 25 

Hot  Cross  Buns 30 

Swedish  Wreaths    ..............  30 

Cream  Wafers  31 


xii  ILLUSTRATIONS 

FACING  PAGE 

Afternoon  Tea  Doughnuts 31 

Fried  Rice 40 

Little  Brahmins 40 

Little  Ducklings 41 

Shapleigh  Luncheon  Cheese 41 

Pimiento  Cheese  Wafers 46 

Walnut  Deceits • 46 

Piquante  Cheese  Crackers 47 

Pea  Roast  with  Carrot  Timbales 52 

Mock  Sausages  with  Fried  Apple  Rings     ....  52 

Baked  Eggs  with  Pimiento  Potato      ......  53 

A   Group   of   Dishes   for   Eggs,   Vegetables   and 

Entrees 53 

Windsor  Eggs      62 

Jellied  French  Poached  Eggs 62 

Bouillon  Cups 63 

Toasted  Triangles 63 

Mock  Cassava  Bread  in  the  Making 76 

Mock  Cassava  Bread 76 

Pulled  Bread  .    .    .    ] ' 77 

Hominy  Croutons 77 

Scallop  Cocktail 84 

Sardine  Cocktail 84 

Broiled  Pompano,  Cucumber  Hollandaise     ...  85 

Shattuck  Halibut 85 

The  Preparing  of  Stuffed  Turbans  of  Flounder    .  94 

Stuffed  Turbans  of  Flounder 94 

Fillet  of  Flounder  in  Paper  Cover  ready  for  Oven  95 

Fillet  of  Flounder  in  Paper  Cover 95 

Petite  Halibut,  Lobster  Sauce 98 

Moulded  Rolled  Fillet  of  Halibut 98 

Iroquois  Steak 99 

Tournadoes  of  Beef 99 

Planked  Sirloin  Steak 108 

The  Larding  of  a  Fillet  of  Beef   .    .  • 109 


ILLUSTRATIONS  xiii 

FACING  PAGE 

Cold  Roast  Beef  a  la  Shapleigh 109 

Lamb  Chops  a  la  Rector  .            122 

Tournadoes  of  Lamb  ready  for  Cooking    ....  122 

Mutton  Duck  ready  for  Oven      123 

Mutton  Duck  Garnished  for  Serving      123 

Loin  of  Veal  Allemande  ready  for  Oven     ....  128 

Loin  of  Veal  Allemande                128 

Kernels  of  Pork  .                       129 

Roast  Crown  of  Pork 129 

Frosted  Ham.    In  color         136 

Little  Roast  Pig 140 

Moulded  Jellied  Chicken 140 

Canadian  Meat  Pie \  141 

Chicken  Pie,  Country  Style 141 

Planked  Boned  Chicken :    .    .    .  144 

Ambassadrice  Capon                 144 

Knickerbocker  Supreme  of  Chicken 145 

Chicken  a  la  Cadillac 145 

Larded  Breasts  of  Guinea  Chicken 148 

Squabs  en  Casserole 148 

French  Artichoke,  Vinaigrette  Sauce 162 

Peppers  Stuffed  with  Fresh  Green  Corn    ....  162 

Arlington  Asparagus 163 

Asparagus,  Mousselaine  Sauce 163 

Moulded  Spinach 174 

Moulded  Spinach  on  Artichoke  Bottoms   ....  174 

Radishes  Cut  for  Garnishing 175 

Delmonico  Tomatoes 175 

Jellied  Vegetable  Ring 184 

Vegetable  Panachee 184 

Potatoes  a  la  Suisse 185 

Lorrette  Potatoes 185 

Nut  and  Potato  Croquettes 192 

Piedmont  Potato  Croquettes 192 

Rector  Salad   .  193 


xiv  ILLUSTRATIONS 

FACING  PAGE 

Carlton  Salad      193 

Indian  Salad.    In  Color 196 

Spring  Salad.    In  Color 196 

German  Tomato  Salad 198 

Huntington  Salad       198 

Celery  Salad  Bonne  Femm'e 199 

Flemish  Beauty  Salad 199 

Asparagus  Salad,  I.    In  Color 200 

Easter  Salad.    In  Color 200 

Parisian  Grape  Fruit  Salad 202 

Touraine  Grape  Fruit  Salad 202 

Cherry  Nut  Salad 203 

Campestris  Salad 203 

Grape  Fruit  Jelly  Salad 206 

Banana  Salad      206 

Ginger  Ale  Salad 207 

Los  Angeles  Fruit  Salad 207 

Scallops  en  Brochette 220 

Cutlets  of  Ham  Alexandria 220 

Chicken  a  la  King 221 

Chicken  and  Mushroom  Timbales 221 

Lining  of  Mould  for  Traymore  Timbales  ....  224 

Traymore  Timbales 224 

Lobster  Boats 225 

Crab  and  Mushroom  Vol-au-Vent 225 

Sweetbreads  a  la  Root 228 

Sweetbreads  Monroe 228 

Pear  Conde,  Compote  of  Rice 229 

Waldorf  Sweetbreads 229 

Macedoine  in  Aspic.    In  Color 234 

Moulded  Fish  in  Aspic 238 

Dressed  Cucumber 238 

Preparation  of  Stuffed  Smoked  Tongue     ....  239 

Sliced  Stuffed  Smoked  Tongue 239 

Boned  Turkey 242 


ILLUSTRATIONS  XV 

FACING  PAGE 

Slices  of  Boned  Turkey  and  Cubes  of  Garnished 

Aspic 

Snow  Eggs  .  254 

Sterling  Fruit  Pudding 254 

Irish  Plum  Pudding   .    .                        ......  255 

Irish  Plum  Pudding  steamed  in  Ring  Mould  and 

garnished  for  Christmas  255 

Fancy  Cutters,  Pans  and  Moulds    .  260 

Charlotte  Russe  in  the  Making 261 

Charlotte  Russe                     261 

Jelly  Panachee    . 

Cold  Pineapple  Souffle^  . 

Macedoine  of  Fruit 273 

Jellied  Fruit,  Moulded  ..'...  273 

Utensils  for  Freezing 282 

Standish  Pudding T 283 

St.  Valentine's  Pudding 283 

Montrose  Pudding 286 

Strawberry  Ice  Cream  en  Surprise 286 

Lighted  Ice  Cream 287 

Macaroon  Basket  filled  with  Ice  Cream     ....  287 

Pistachio  Parfait 294 

Grape  Fruit  Cocktail  with  Mint  Balls 294 

Pineapple  Coupe 295 

Coupe  Caruso 295 

Parfait  Amour 298 

Cognac  Pear  Coupe 298 

A  Tray  of  Pastry  Novelties     299 

Mock  Mince  Pie 302 

Pumpkin  Pie 302 

Chocolate  Custard  Pie 303     , 

Marlborough  Pie   %.    .   .    . 303 

Devonshire  Pie 316 

Mont  Blanc 316 

Keswick  Gingerbread 317 


XVI  ILLUSTRATIONS 

FACING  PAGE 

Nut  Oatmeal  Cookies 317 

Peanut  Bars 320 

Peanut  Macaroons 320 

Marshmallow  Teas  ready  for  Oven 321 

Marshmallow  Teas 321 

Chocolate  Walnut  Wafers 324 

Peanut  WTafers 324 

The  Rolling  of  Swedish  Nut  Wafers 325 

Swedish  Nut  Wafers 325 

Gratan  Mocha 328 

Vienna  Cake 328 

Birthday  Cake  for  a  Three-Year-Old 329 

Raised  Loaf  Cake 332 

Devil's  Food  Cake 332 

Lady  Baltimore  Cake 333 

Lord  Baltimore  Cake 333 

Butterfly  Cake.    In  Color 336 

Anniversary  Cake 338 

Christmas  Cakes 339 

Ornamented  Wedding  Cake 339 

Anniversary  Cake.    In  Color 342 

The  Salting  of  Filberts 356 

Chapin  Chocolate  Caramels 356 

Raisin  Opera  Caramels 357 

Fudge 357 

After  Dinner  Mints 362 

Turkish  Mint  Paste  . 362 

Marshmallow  Mint  Bonbons  with  a  Variety  of 

Garnishings 363 

Dipped  Cream  Mints  in  the  Making 366 

Dipped  Cream  Mints 366 

Candy  Basket  filled  with  Glaced  Strawberries      .  367 

A  Basket  of  Home  Made  Sweets  for  Christmas    .  367 

Crystal  Cups  in  the  Making 370 

Crystal  Cups 370 


ILLUSTRATIONS  xvii 

FACING  PAGE 

Cinkites 371 

Chocolate  Dipped  Candied  Orange  Peel  ....  371 
Allen  Canape.  St.  Valentine's  Canape*.  Dexter 

Canape 374 

Smoked  Fish  Canape 375 

Fish  Canape 375 

Horn  of  Plenty  Canape* 378 

Butterfly  Canape 378 

Kindergarten  Sandwiches  in  the  Making  ....  379 

Kindergarten  Sandwiches 379 

Mosaic  Sandwiches 382 

Honor  Sandwiches 382 

Horseradish  Sandwiches 383 

Dream  Sandwiches 383 

Fairmont  Sandwiches 386 

Egg  and  Potato  Salad 386 

Belmont  Baked  Apples  ready  for  'the  Oven  .  .  .  387 

Belmont  Baked  Apples 387 

Grape  Fruit  a  la  Russe 390 

Rector  Leaf 390 

Canteloupe  Supreme  391 

Lenox  Strawberries 391 

Pastry  Boats  filled  with  Fresh  Fruit 394 

Rhubarb  Conserve  in  the  Making 394 

Home  Made  Jelly  Bags 395 

Lemons  cut  for  Garnishings.  In  Color 396 

Cranberry  Jelly  with  Celery 398 

Mint  Jelly,  Corn  Relish  and  Peach  Conserve  .  .  398 

Table  laid  for  Breakfast 410 

Table  laid  for  Luncheon 411 

Table  laid  for  Dinner 414 

Table  laid  for  Luncheon  Buffet '.  .  .  415 

Table  laid  for  Afternoon  Tea 418 

Table  laid  for  Sunday  Night  or  After  Theatre 

Supper 419 


A  New  Book  of  Cookery 

CHAPTER  I 
HOW  TO  MEASURE  AND  COMBINE  INGREDIENTS 

THERE  is  nothing  which  has  done  so  much  to 
place  cookery  on  an  improved  basis  as  the  almost 
universal  introduction  of  accurate  methods  in 
measuring.  A  generation  or  two  ago  each  household 
had  its  favorite  cups  and  spoons  of  varying  sizes 
which  helped  as  guides  in  measuring.  It  was  in  these 
days  that  one  often  heard  the  statement,  "  Cooks  are 
born,  not  made."  Good  judgment  coupled  with 
experience  taught  some  to  measure  by  sight,  which 
was  a  step  towards  good  results,  but  the  vast  ma- 
jority needed  definite  guides.  Thus  arose  the  neces- 
sity of  uniform  measuring  cups  and  spoons  which 
are  an  essential  in  every  kitchen. 

Measuring  cups  (holding  one-half  pint),  divided 
into  quarters  or  thirds,  are  made  of  tin,  graniteware, 
or  glass  and  may  be  bought  of  any  dealer  in  kitchen 
furnishings  or  at  large  department  stores.  Measur- 
ing spoons  come  in  two  sizes,  the  smaller  of  which  is 
called  a  teaspoon,  the  larger  a  tablespoon.  Mixing 
spoons,  which  are  somewhat  larger  than  tablespoons, 
should  not  be  confounded  with  them.  A  case  knife, 
which  is  used  for  levelling  as  well  as  dividing  ingre- 


2  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

dients,   is    also    necessary   to   make   measuring  as 
accurate  as  is  possible. 

All  ingredients  are  measured  level. 

A  cupful  is  measured  level. 

A  tablespoonful  is  measured  level. 

A  teaspoonful  is  measured  level. 

TO  MEASURE  DRY  INGREDIENTS 

I.  By  cupfuls. 

Put  in  the  ingredient  to  be  measured  by  spoon- 
fuls or  from  a  scoop,  round  slightly  and  level  with  a 
case  knife  for  a  cupful.  For  fractions  of  cupfuls 
fill  in  like  manner  to  correct  division  line  indicated 
in  cup.  Never  shake  the  cup  while  filling. 

II.  By  teaspoonfuls  or  tablespoonfuls. 

Dip  spoon  in  ingredient,  fill,  lift,  and  level  with  a 
case  knife  having  the  sharp  edge  of  knife  towards 
tip  of  spoon.  Divide  with  a  case  knife  lengthwise 
of  spoon  for  a  half  spoonful.  Divide  halves  cross- 
wise for  quarters,  and  quarters  crosswise  for  eighths. 
Less  than  one-eighth  teaspoonful  is  called  a  few 
grains. 

TO  MEASURE   BUTTER,   LARD,   AND   OTHER 
SOLID   FATS 

I.   By  cupfuls. 

Pack  solidly  into  cup  and  level  with  a  case  knife  for 
a  cupful.  For  fractions  of  cupfuls  pack  in  like  man- 
ner to  correct  division  line  indicated  in  cup. 


FIVE  O'CLOCK  TEA  TRAY. 


ACCOMPANIMENTS  TO  THE  FIVE  O'CLOCK  CUP  or  TEA. 


HOW  TO  MEASURE  INGREDIENTS  3 

II.   By  teaspoonfuls  or  tabkspoonjuls. 

Pack  solidly  into  spoon  and  level  with  a  case  knife. 
Divide  with  a  case  knife  lengthwise  of  spoon  for  a 
half  spoonful.  Divide  halves  crosswise  for  quarters, 
and  quarters  crosswise  for  eighths. 

TO  MEASURE  LIQUIDS 

I.  By  cupfuls. 

Pour  liquid  to  be  measured  into  cup  and  fill  to  very 
top  for  cupfuls.  A  cupful  of  liquid  is  all  that  the  cup 
will  hold  and  cannot  be  easily  moved  from  one  place 
to  another  without  overflowing.  For  fractions 
of  cupfuls  fill  in  like  manner  to  correct  division  line 
indicated  in  cup. 

II.  By  teaspoonfuls  or  tablespoonfuls. 

Dip  spoon  in  liquid,  fill  and  lift,  taking  up  all  the 
spoon  will  hold.  When  dry  ingredients,  liquids, 
and  fats  are  all  called  for  in  the  same  recipe,  measure 
in  the  order  given,  thereby  using  but  one  cup. 

• 

HOW  TO  COMBINE  INGREDIENTS 

Next  to  measuring  comes  care  in  combining,  - 
a  fact  not  always  recognized  by  the  inexperienced. 
Three    ways    are    considered,  —  stirring,    beating, 
and  cutting  and  folding. 

To  stir,  mix  by  using  circular  motion,  widening 
the  circles  until  all  is  blended.  Stirring  is  the  motion 
ordinarily  employed  in  all  cookery,  alone  or  in  com- 
bination with  beating. 


4  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

To  beat,  turn  ingredient  or  ingredients  over  and 
over,  continually  bringing  the  under  part  to  the  sur- 
face, thus  allowing  the  utensil  used  for  beating  to  be 
constantly  brought  in  contact  with  bottom  of  the 
dish  and  throughout  the  mixture. 

To  cut  and  fold,  introduce  one  ingredient  into  an- 
other ingredient  or  mixture  by  two  motions:  with  a 
spoon,  a  repeated  vertical  downward  motion,  known 
as  cutting,  and  a  turning  over  and  over  of  mixture, 
allowing  bowl  of  spoon  each  time  to  come  in  contact 
with  bottom  of  dish,  is  called  folding.  These  re- 
peated motions  are  alternated  until  thorough  blend- 
ing is  accomplished. 

By  stirring,  ingredients  are  mixed;  by  beating, 
a  large  amount  of  air  is  inclosed;  by  cutting  and 
folding,  air  already  introduced  is  prevented  from 
escaping. 


CHAPTER   II 

BEVERAGES 
Hawaiian  Five  o'clock  Tea 

A  LLOW  to  each  cup  of  five  o'clock  tea  three  cubes 
-**•  prepared  pineapple  cubes  and  sugar  to  taste. 
For  pineapple  cubes,  put  one-half  cup  syrup  drained 
from  canned  pineapple  in  small  saucepan,  add  two 
tablespoons  sugar  and  one-half  cup  canned  sliced 
pineapple,  cut  in  half-inch  cubes.  Bring  to  the 
boiling  point,  and  let  simmer  until  syrup  has  been 
almost  absorbed  by  fruit. 

Lemon  Cut  Sugar 

Rub  entire  surface  of  blocks  of  domino  sugar  over 
the  rind  of  a  lemon  which  has  been  washed  and 
wiped  until  dry.  Store  in  a  glass  jar,  and  use  to 
sweeten  and  flavor  five  o'clock  tea. 

Orange  Cut  Sugar 

Rub  entire  surface  of  blocks  of  domino  sugar  over 
the  rind  of  an  orange  which  has  been  washed  and 
wiped  until  dry.  Store  in  a  glass  jar,  and  use  to 
sweeten  and  flavor  five  o'clock?  tea. 


6  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

Syracuse  Five  o'clock  Tea 

Sweeten  five  o'clock  tea  with  white  or  red  rock 
candy. 

Jamaica  Five  o'clock  Tea 

Allow  to  each  cup  of  five  o'clock  tea  from  one-half 
to  one  teaspoon  rum. 

Luncheon  Coffee 

Strain  coffee  remaining  from  breakfast,  sweeten  to 
taste  and  chill.  Dilute  with  cream  and  pour  into  a 
glass  pitcher.  Serve  in  tall  glasses,  allowing  two 
tablespoons  vanilla  ice  cream  to  each  glass. 

Chocolate  Syrup 

4  squares  Baker's  chocolate  %  teaspoon  salt 

\%  cups  sugar  \Y^  cups  boiling  water 

Melt  chocolate  in  saucepan  placed  in  a  larger 
saucepan  of  boiling  water,  add  sugar  and  salt  and 
stir  until  well  mixed;  then  pour  on  gradually,  while 
stirring  constantly,  boiling  water.  Stir  until  smooth, 
bring  to  the  boiling  point  and  let  boil  five  minutes. 
Cool,  turn  into  a  jar  and  keep  in  ice  box  or  cold  place. 

Chocolate  Egg  and  Milk  Shake 

2  tablespoons  finely  crushed  ice  1  egg 

2^  tablespoons  chocolate  syrup  %j  cup  millc 

Put  ingredients  in  glass  and  shake  thoroughly 
(using  one  of  the  shakers  that  may  be  bought  at 


BEVERAGES  7 

any  kitchen-furnishing  store),  and  strain  into 
another  glass  for  serving.  A  few  gratings  nutmeg  or 
a  few  grains  cinnamon  may  be  sprinkled  on  top. 
The  ice  may  be  omitted  if  the  ingredients  have  been 
thoroughly  chilled  in  the  ice  box. 

Chocolate  Ice  Cream  Soda 

3  tablespoons  chocolate  syrup  2  tablespoons  vanilla 
Soda  water  ice  cream 

Put  syrup  in  tall  glass,  add  vanilla  ice  cream,  and 
fill  glass  with  soda  water  drawn  from  siphon.  Stir 
thoroughly  and  serve. 

Siphons  of  soda  may  be  bought  of  any  druggist 
or  first-class  city  grocer. 

Hot  Marshmallow  Chocolate 

4  cups  milk  Few  grains  salt 
2^  ounces  vanilla  chocolate                    Sugar 

Marshmallows 

Put  milk  and  chocolate  in  double  boiler,  and  when 
scalding  point  is  reached  add  salt  and  sugar  to  taste. 
Beat  two  minutes,  using  a  Dover  egg  beater.  Put 
two  marshmallows  in  each  chocolate  cup  and  fill 
cups  two-thirds  full  of  hot  chocolate.  Use  the 
inexpensive  kind  of  marshmallows,  as  they  melt 
more  quickly. 

Cocoa  Egg  Nog 

White  1  egg  1  teaspoon  breakfast  cocoa 

1  teaspoon  sugar  Few  grains  salt 

%  cup  cold  milk 


8  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

Beat  egg  white  until  stiff  and  add  gradually,  while 
beating  constantly,  sugar,  cocoa,  and  salt.  Add  to 
one-half  the  mixture,  while  beating  constantly,  cold 
milk.  Turn  into  a  glass  and  pile  remaining  egg 
mixture  on  top. 

Iced  Fruit  Juice 

Arrange  fresh  mint  leaves,  lengthwise,  at  equal 
distances  in  frappe  glasses,  allowing  four  to  each 
glass.  Put  in  finely  crushed  ice  to  three-fourths 
depth  of  glasses,  and  pour  over  to  fill  glass  fresh 
fruit  juice,  sweetened  to  taste,  using  grape  juice, 
fresh  raspberry  juice,  fresh  strawberry  juice  or 
fresh  pineapple  juice.  Arrange  glasses  on  small 
plates  covered  with  doilies,  and  accompany  each 
with  a  teaspoon. 

Serve  as  a  first  course  at  a  ladies'  luncheon.  Mint 
leaves  may  be  omitted. 

Card  Punch 

Mix  one  pint  bottle  grape  juice  and  two  pint 
bottles  ginger  ale.  Have  glasses  half  full  of  finely 
crushed  ice  and  fill  with  mixture. 

Luncheon  Punch 

1  quart  Apollinaris  1  quart  White  Grape  Juice 

Pack  bottled  ingredients  in  salt  and  ice  and  let 
stand  until  thoroughly  chilled.  Just  before  serving 
mix  and  pour  into  a  chilled  pitcher. 


LuxriiEos  COFFEE.  —  Page  G. 


SWEDISH  NUT  WAFERS.  MARGUERITE  SQUAREH. 

PEANUT  WAFERS. 


MARSHMALLOW  CHOCOLATE. — Page  7. 


ICED  FRUIT  JUICE.  —Page  8. 


BEVERAGES  9 


Moette  Punch 

1  cup  pineapple  syrup  1  pint  Apollinaris 

\Y±  cups  white  grape  juice  Sugar 

Mix  fruit  juices,  add  Apollinaris  and  sweeten  to 
taste.  Pour  into  punch  bowl  and  add  one  quart 
raspberry  ice  moulded  in  five  round  moulds. 

German  Punch 

1  cup  grape  juice  H  cup  grape  fruit  juice 

1  cup  cider  2  bottles  Lithia  water 

Sugar 

Mix  first  four  ingredients  and  sweeten  to  taste. 
Pour  into  a  punch  bowl  over  a  large  cake  of  ice. 


Oriental  Punch 

1  cup  sugar  Juice  2  lemons 

1  cup  water  Juice  3  oranges 

6  cloves  1  drop  oil  of  peppermint 

1  inch  stick  cinnamon  Green  coloring 

^  tablespoon  chopped  Mint  leaves 
Canton  ginger 

Make  a  syrup  by  boiling  sugar  and  water  six 
minutes.  Add  cloves,  cinnamon,  and  ginger;  cover 
and  let  stand  until  cold.  Add  fruit  juices,  strain, 
color  green,  and  add  peppermint.  I>et  stand  one 
hour  and  pour  into  punch  bowl  over  a  cake  of  ice. 
Garnish  with  fresh  mint  leaves. 


10  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

Fruit  Punch  with  Whipped  Cream 

1  pint  bottle  grape  juice  Zest  1  orange 

3  tablespoons  lemon  juice  4  sprigs  fresh  mint 

%  cup  orange  juice  Few  grains  salt 

1  cup  fresh  pineapple  pulp  Few  gratings  nutmeg 

with  juice  Crushed  ice 

%  cup  domino  sugar  1  pint  bottle  soda  water 

Zest  1  lemon  Whipped  cream 

Mix  fruits  and  add  sugar,  which  has  been  rubbed 
over  lemon  and  orange  to  remove  zest;  then  add 
mint,  salt,  and  nutmeg.  Cover,  and  let  stand  in 
ice-box  one  hour  to  ripen.  Pour  over  crushed  ice, 
add  soda  water,  and  serve  in  tall  glasses  with  whipped 
cream  on  top.  Garnish  with  mint  leaves. 

Pineapple  Julep 

1  quart  canned  pineapple  %  cup  raspberry  syrup 

Juice  2  lemons  ^  cup  brandy 

Juice  2  oranges  2  tablespoons  gin 

1  cup  sugar  1  pint  Moselle  wine 

y<i  cup  water  1  pint  Apollinaris  water 

Cut  pineapple  in  small  pieces  and  add  lemon  juice, 
orange  juice,  sugar,  and  water.  Bring  to  the  boiling 
point  and  let  boil  seven  minutes.  Add  remaining 
ingredients,  cool,  and  strain  into  a  punch  bowl  over 
a  large  cake  of  ice. 

Siberian  Punch 

2  cups  sugar  %  cup  brandy 
1  cup  orange  juice                                 Few  grains  salt 
1  cup  lemon  juice                                   Pink  coloring 

1  cup  pineapple  juice  Block  of  ice 

%  cup  rum  1  quart  Apollinaris 


BEVERAGES  11 

Pour  fruit  juices  over  sugar,  cover  and  let  stand 
until  sugar  has  dissolved.  Add  rum,  brandy,  and 
salt,  and  color  pink.  Pour  over  ice  in  punch  bowl, 
and  just  before  serving  add  Apollinaris.  Garnish 
with  four  thin  slices  of  lemon  (from  which  seeds 
have  been  removed),  five  thin  slices  of  banana  cut 
crosswise,  and  eight  strawberries  cut  in  halves 
lengthwise. 

Aliimnj  Punch 

3  pounds  sugar  1  quart  bottle  Sauterne 

Grated  rind  3  lemons  1  cup  cr£me  de  menthe 

1  quart  water  Green  coloring 

Juice  1  l/i  doz.  lemons  Ice 

1  pint  pineapple  juice  2  quarts  Apollinaris  water 

1  cup  Malaga  grapes 

Make  a  syrup  by  boiling  sugar,  grated  rind, 
and  water  fifteen  minutes.  Strain,  cool,  and 
add  lemon  juice,  pineapple  juice,  Sauterne,  and 
creme  de  menthe.  Color  green  and  pour  over  a 
large  piece  of  ice  in  punch  bowl.  Add  more 
sugar  if  necessary,  and  just  before  serving,  Apol- 
linaris water,  and  grapes,  skinned,  seeded,  and 
cut  in  halves. 

Ginger  Ale  Cup 

2^  tablespoons  Maraschino  1  quart  bottle  ginger  ale 

2^3  tablespoons  Benedictine  Chopped  ice 

1  tablespoon  lime  juice    .  1  slice  lemon 
2^  teaspoons  powdered  sugar  2  slices  oranges 

2  thin  slices  cucumber  rind  Few  sprigs  fresh  mint 


12  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

Mix  first  six  ingredients  and  pour  into  pitcher 
one-third  full  of  chopped  ice.  Garnish  with 
thin  slice  of  lemon  from  which  seeds  have  been 
removed,  cut  in  halves;  orange  slices  from 
which  seeds  have  been  removed,  and  a  few  large 
sprigs  fresh  mint  leaves,  sprinkled  with  powdered 
sugar. 

Claret  Cup 

2^  tablespoons  Benedictine  Chopped  ice 

2^  tablespoons  Maraschino  6  strawberries 

23^  tablespoons  Yellow  2  slices  orange 

Chartreuse  2  strips  cucumber  rind 

1  tablespoon  lemon  juice  3  sprigs  fresh  mint 

2^  teaspoons  powdered  sugar  1  quart  bottle  claret 

Mix  first  five  ingredients,  shake  thoroughly, 
and  strain  into  a  pitcher  containing  chopped  ice. 
Add  strawberries,  cut  in  halves,  slices  of  orange 
(from  which  seeds  have  been  removed),  cucum- 
ber rind,  and  claret.  Garnish  with  sprigs  of 
mint,  the  leaves  of  which  have  been  sprinkled 
with  powdered  sugar. 

Sauterne  Cup 

Make  same  as  Claret  Cup,  using  Sauterne  in  place 
of  claret. 

Champagne  Cup 

Make  same  as  Claret  Cup,  using  "Great  Western" 
Champagne  in  place  of  claret. 


MOKTTE  I'uxrii.       I'dyc  J». 


FRUIT  PUNCH  WITH  WHIPPED  CKEAM.  —  Page  10. 


GINGER  ALE  CUP.  —  Page  11. 


. 


CLARET  CUP.  —  Page  12. 


BEVERAGES  13 

Champagne  Punch 

1  quart  "Great  Western"  3  pints  orange  sherbet 

Champagne 

Put  sherbet  in  punch  bowl  and  pour  over  Cham- 
pagne. When  sherbet  is  nearly  melted  serve  in 
sauterne  glasses. 

A  luncheon  beverage. 


CHAPTER  III 

RAISED  BREAD  MIXTURES 

Family  White  Loaf 
[Made  of  Condensed  Milk] 

1  tablespoon  lard  34  cup  condensed  milk 

1  tablespoon  butter  1  yeast  cake 

2  teaspoons  salt  34  cup  lukewarm  water 
1%  cups  boiling  water  6  cups  sifted  flour 

Put  lard,  butter,  and  salt  in  bread  mixer  or  bowl 
without  a  lip;  pour  on  boiling  water  and  condensed 
milk,  and,  when  lukewarm,  add  yeast  cake,  broken 
in  pieces  and  dissolved  in  lukewarm  water,  and 
five  cups  flour.  Stir  until  thoroughly  mixed,  add 
remaining  flour,  toss  on  a  slightly  floured  board  and 
knead  until  mixture  is  smooth.  Return  to  bowl  and 
cover  with  a  clean  cloth  and  board  or  tin  cover.  Let 
rise  at  a  temperature  of  65°  F.  until  mixture  has 
doubled  its  bulk,  the  time  required  being  about 
three  hours.  Cut  down,  toss  on  a  slightly  floured 
board,  shape  into  two  double  loaves  and  put  in 
buttered  pans. .  Cover,  again  let  rise,  and  bake  in  a 
hot  oven  fifty-five  minutes. 

Currant  Loaf 

Use  same  recipe  as  for  Family  White  Loaf.  When 
shaping  into  loaves,  knead  in  one-third  cup  cleaned 
dried  currants. 


RAISED  BREAD  MIXTURES  15 

Graham  Raised  Loaf 

2  cups  milk  %  cup  lukewarm  water 

6  tablespoons  molasses  2  cups  sifted  Graham  flour 

1  %  teaspoons  salt  %  cup  Graham  bran 
Yz  yeast  cake  Flour 

Scald  milk  and  add  molasses  and  salt.  When 
lukewarm,  add  yeast  cake  dissolved  in  water,  Graham 
flour  and  Graham  bran,  and  white  flour  to  knead. 
Cover,  let  rise,  shape  into  loaves,  again  let  rise,  and 
bake  in  a  hot  oven. 

German  Caraway  Bread 

2  cups  scalded  milk  1  yeast  cake 

2  tablespoons  sugar  ^  cup  lukewarm  water 

2  tablespoons  butter  2  tablespoons  caraway  seeds 

1  teaspoon  salt  6  cups  rye  flour 

1  ^  cups  entire  wheat  flour 

Add  sugar,  butter,  and  salt  to  scalded  milk.  When 
mixture  is  lukewarm  add  yeast  cake  dissolved  in 
lukewarm  water,  caraway  seeds,  and  rye  flour. 
Turn  on  a  board  and  knead,  while  incorporating 
entire  wheat  flour.  Return  to  bowl,  cover  and  let 
rise  until  mixture  has  doubled  its  bulk.  Shape  into 
loaves,  put  in  buttered  bread  pans,  again  cover,  let 
rise,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven. 

Reception  Rolls  ^ 

1  cup  scalded  milk  1  yeast  cake 

1  Yz  tablespoons  sugar  %  cup  lukewarm  water 

1  teaspoon  salt  White  1  egg 

34  cup  shortening  3^  cups  flour 


16  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

Put  sugar,  salt,  and  shortening  (using  one-half 
butter  and  one-half  lard)  in  a  bowl,  pour  over  milk, 
and  when  mixture  is  lukewarm,  add  yeast  cake,  dis- 
solved in  lukewarm  water,  white  of  egg  beaten  until 
stiff,  and  flour.  Toss  on  a  slightly  floured  board  and 
knead.  Return  to  bowl,  cover  and  let  rise  until 
mixture  has  doubled  its  bulk.  Again  toss  on  a 
slightly  floured  board,  shape,  place  in  buttered  pan, 
cover,  again  let  rise,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  twenty 
minutes. 

Rasped  Rolls 

1^2  cups  scalded  milk  M  teaspoon  salt 

2  tablespoons  butter  1  yeast  cake 

y%  tablespoon  sugar  2  tablespoons  lukewarm  water 

3H  cups  flour 

Add  butter,  sugar,  and  salt  to  milk,  and  when 
lukewarm  add  yeast  cake  dissolved  in  water,  and 
three  cups  flour.  Beat  five  minutes,  cover  and  let 
rise  until  mixture  has  doubled  its  bulk.  Cut  down, 
add  remaining  flour  and  beat  five  minutes.  Cover 
and  again  let  rise.  Toss  on  a  slightly  floured  board 
and  knead  thoroughly.  Shape  in  biscuits,  then 
roll  from  centres,  using  the  hands,  forming  rolls  four 
inches  long  and  pointed  at  ends,  arrange  on  a  but- 
tered sheet,  cover,  let  rise,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven. 
Cool  slightly,  remove  outside  crust  with  grater, 
return  to  oven  and  bake  five  minutes. 


CruuAXT  LOAF.  —  Page  14. 


JZ 


CINCINNATI  COFFEE  BHEAD.  —  Page  19. 


THE  METHOD  or  RASPING.  —  Page  16. 


RASPED  ROLLS.  —  Page  16. 


RAISED  BREAD  MIXTURES  17 

Crossett  Rolls 

Scald  one  cup  milk,  turn  into  mixing  bowl  (with- 
out a  lip),  and  add  one  tablespoon,  each,  lard  and 
butter,  and  three-fourths  teaspoon  salt.  When 
lukewarm,  add  one  yeast  cake,  dissolved  in  one-fourth 
cup  lukewarm  water,  and  enough  flour  to  knead. 
Toss  on  a  slightly  floured  cloth,  knead,  return  to 
bowl,  cover  and  let  rise  until  mixture  has  doubled 
its  bulk.  Put  in  ice  box  and  let  stand  until  chilled. 
Toss  on  a  floured  cloth,  pat  and  roll  into  a  long  rec- 
tangle one-fourth  inch  in  thickness.  Dot  over  with 
four  tablespoons  butter  and  fold  from  ends  towards 
centre,  making  three  layers.  Turn  half-way  around, 
pat,  roll  out  as  before  and  dot  over  with  butter;  repeat 
twice.  Put  in  ice  box  and  let  chill  for  two  hours. 
Toss  on  a  floured  cloth,  pat  and  roll  as  thin  as  possi- 
ble. Cut  in  four-inch  squares  and  squares  in  halves 
on  the  diagonal,  using  a  sharp  knife.  Roll,  begin- 
ning on  the  diagonal  (as  shown  in  illustration),  and 
shape  in  crescent  fashion.  Place  on  buttered  sheet, 
again  chill  in  ice  box  twenty  "minutes  and  bake  in 
a  hot  oven. 


Butterfly  Rolls 

Y<L  cup  butter  2  eggs 

1  cup  boiling  water  1  teaspoon  salt 

2i  cup  sugar  2  teaspoons  lemon  extract 

Yz  yeast  cake  4^  cups  flour 

Sugar  and  cinnamon 


18  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

Put  butter  and  sugar  in  bowl,  pour  on  boiling  water 
and  when  lukewarm,  add  yeast  cake,  broken  in 
pieces.  Add  eggs,  unbeaten,  salt,  and  lemon  extract ; 
then  add  flour  gradually,  while  beating  constantly, 
using  the  hand.  Cover  and  let  rise.  When  mix- 
ture has  doubled  its  bulk,  knead  and  again  let  rise. 
Toss  on  a  floured  cloth,  pat  with  rolling  pin  to  one- 
fourth  inch  in  thickness  and  roll  in  rectangular 
shape.  Brush  over  with  melted  butter,  sprinkle  with 
sugar  and  cinnamon  and  roll  like  a  jelly  roll.  Cut 
crosswise  in  one-inch  pieces;  then  each  piece  nearly 
in  halves,  crosswise,  and  turn  over  in  such  a  way 
as  to  leave  a  surface  of  layers  on  top.  Shape,  using 
fingers,  to  represent  a  butterfly.  Insert  two  currants 
in  each,  place  on  a  buttered  sheet,  cover,  and  again  let 
rise.  Brush  over  with  milk  or  yolk  of  egg  diluted  with 
water,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven.  The  sprinkling  of 
sugar  and  cinnamon  may  be  omitted. 

Cream  Bread  Fingers 

Yz  cup  heavy  cream  1  yeast  cake 

2  tablespoons  sugar  %  cup  lukewarm  water 

24  tablespoon  salt  1 }/%  cups  flour 

Scald  cream,  and  add  sugar  and  salt;  when  luke- 
warm, add  yeast  cake  dissolved  in  lukewarm  water 
and  flour.  Toss  on  a  slightly  floured  board  and 
knead.  Return  to  bowl,  cover,  let  rise,  toss  on  a 
slightly  floured  board,  and  pat  and  roll  to  one-fourth 
inch  in  thickness.  Shape  with  a  lady  finger  cutter, 
first  dipped  in  flour,  arrange  on  a  buttered  tin  sheet, 


RAISED  BREAD  MIXTURES  19 

cover,  again  let  rise,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 
Brush  over  with  two  tablespoons  milk,  mixed  with 
one  tablespoon  sugar,  and  return  to  oven  to  glaze. 

Moravian  Bread 

1  yeast  cake  1  egg 

^  cup  lukewarm  water  %  cup  shortening 

1  cup  hot  mashed  potatoes  1  cup  sugar 

2  cups  scalded  milk  2  teaspoons  salt 
21A  cups  flour  2%  cups  flour 

Dissolve  yeast  cake  in  lukewarm  water  and 
add  potatoes,  scalded  milk,  which  has  become  luke- 
warm, and  two  and  one-half  cups  flour.  Cover  and 
let  rise  until  light;  then  add  egg,  well  beaten, 
shortening,  using  equal  parts  of  lard  and  butter,  salt, 
and  remaining  flour.  Turn  into  a  buttered  dripping 
pan  and  spread  evenly.  Cover  and  again  let  rise 
until  light.  Brush  over  with  melted  butter  and  at 
two-inch  intervals  make  parallel  rows  of  three- 
fourths  inch  depressions,  using  the  forefinger.  In 
depressions  thus  made  put  a  bit  of  butter  and  fill 
with  brown  sugar.  Sprinkle  with  two  tablespoons 
brown  sugar  mixed  with  one  teaspoon  cinnamon  and 
-bake  in  a  moderate  oven  thirty-five  minutes. 

Cincinnati  Coffee  Bread 

Put  one-third  cup  sugar,  one-third  cup  butter,  and 
one-half  teaspoon  salt  in  bowl,  and  pour  over  one 
cup  scalded  milk.  When  lukewarm,  add  one  yeast 
cake,  dissolved  in  one-fourth  cup  lukewarm  water, 


20  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

two  eggs,  slightly  beaten,  and  enough  flour  to  make  a 
stiff  batter.  Cover  and  let  rise  until  mixture  has 
doubled  its  bulk.  Cut  down,  beat  thoroughly 
and  spread  evenly  in  two  buttered,  round  layer  cake 
tins.  Sprinkle  with  Nut  Mixture,  let  rise  and  bake 
in  a  hot  oven  forty  minutes. 

Nut  Mixture  —  Mix  two  tablespoons  sugar  and 
three-fourths  teaspoon  cinnamon  and  add  three- 
fourths  cup  soft,  stale  bread  crumbs,  two  tablespoons 
melted  butter,  and  three  tablespoons  chopped, 
blanched  Jordan  almonds. 

Fried  Bread 

Toss  a  piece  of  raised  bread  dough  on  a  floured 
cloth  and  pat  and  roll  to  one-eighth  inch  in  thickness. 
Cut  in  strips  two  and  one-half  inches  wide  and  cut 
strips  in  squares  or  diamond-shaped  pieces.  Cover 
and  let  stand  from  ten  to  fifteen  minutes.  Fry  in 
deep  fat  until  well  puffed  and  delicately  browned; 
drain  on  brown  paper  and  serve  with  maple  syrup. 

Holland  Brioche  Cakes 

1  cup  scalded  milk  ^  cup  melted  butter 
%  cup  sugar  %  teaspoon  salt 

%  yeast  cake  Grated  rind  %  lemon 

\y%  cups  flour  Juice  Yi  lemon 

2  eggs  \y<z  cups  flour 

Add  sugar  to  milk,  and  when  mixture  is  luke- 
warm, add  yeast  cake  broken  in  pieces,  and  when 
yeast  cake  is  dissolved,  add  flour,  cover  and  let  rise 


THE  SHAPING  OF  CHOSSETT  ROLLS.  —  Page  17, 


CROSSETT  ROLLS.  —  Page  17. 


BUTTERFLY  ROLLS.  —  Page  1' 


MORAVIAN  BREAD  READY  FOR  THE  OVEN.  —  Page  19. 


RAISED  BREAD  MIXTURES  21 

until  full  of  bubbles.  Add  eggs,  well  beaten,  and 
remaining  ingredients.  Cover  and  again  let  rise. 
Toss  on  a  slightly  floured  board,  pat  and  roll  in  long 
rectangular  piece  one-fourth  inch  thick;  spread 
with  softened  butter  and  fold  from  sides  towards 
centre  to  make  three  layers.  Cut  off  pieces  three- 
fourths  inch  wide;  cover  and  let  rise.  Take  each 
piece  separately  in  hands  and  twist  from  ends  in 
opposite  directions,  coil  and  bring  ends  together  at 
top  of  cake.  Let  rise  in  pans  and  bake  twenty 
minutes  in  a  moderate  oven;  cool  and  brush  over 
with  confectioners*  sugar,  moistened  with  boiling 
water  to  spread  and  flavored  with  vanilla. 

Tea  Cakes 

1  cup  scalded  milk  1  yeast  cake 

4  tablespoons  butter  2  tablespoons  milk 

2  tablespoons  sugar  1  egg 

1  teaspoon  salt  3  cups  flour 

Add  butter,  sugar,  and  salt  to  scalded  milk.  When 
mixture  is  lukewarm,  add  yeast  cake  dissolved  in 
two  tablespoons  milk,  egg  slightly  beaten,  and  flour. 
Cover  and  let  rise  until  mixture  has  doubled  its 
bulk.  Cut  down  and  fill  buttered  muffin  tins  two- 
thirds  full.  Cover,  again  let  rise,  and  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven. 

Flume  Flannel  Cakes 

\1A  cups  milk  H  teaspoon  salt 

}>i  cup  sugar  %  yeast  cake 

Yz  cup  butter  4  cups  flour 

Whites  2  eggs 


22  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

Scald  milk  and  add  sugar,  butter,  and  salt;  when 
lukewarm,  add  yeast  cake  and  when  yeast  cake  is 
dissolved  flour.  Mix  thoroughly  and  add  egg 
whites  beaten  until  stiff.  Cover  and  let  rise  over 
night,  in  the  morning  cut  down,  turn  into  buttered 
iron  gem  pans,  having  pans  one-half  full  of  mixture. 
Let  rise,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  twenty  minutes. 

Sally  Lunn  Tea  Cakes 

2  tablespoons  butter  }/%  yeast  cake 

2  tablespoons  sugar  %  cup  lukewarm  water 

1  cup  scalded  milk  3  eggs 
Flour 

Put  butter  and  sugar  in  bowl,  pour  over  scalded 
milk,  and  when  lukewarm,  add  yeast  cake  dissolved 
in  lukewarm  water,  eggs  well  beaten,  and  enough 
flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter.  Cover  and  let  rise 
until  very  light.  Fill  buttered  muffin  tins  (set  in 
buttered  dripping  pan)  one-half  full  of  mixture; 
cover,  again  let  rise,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven. 

Russell  Buns 

1M  cups  scalded  milk  1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

1  yeast  cake  1  teaspoon  salt 

%  cup  lukewarm  water  2  eggs 

3%  cups  flour  1  tablespoon  butter 

%  cup  sugar  1  tablespoon  lard 

%  cup  currants 

Break  yeast  cake  in  pieces,  dissolve  in  water  and 
add  milk  after  it  has  become  lukewarm.  Add  flour, 
cover  and  let  rise  until  mixture  is  light.  Add  re- 


RAISED  BREAD  MIXTURES  23 

maining  ingredients,  except  currants,  cover  and  again 
let  rise  until  mixture  has  doubled  its  bulk.  Turn  on 
a  floured  cloth  and  knead  in  the  currants.  Shape  in 
the  form  of  biscuits,  place  in  buttered  pan  close  to- 
gether, cover  and  let  rise.  Brush  tops  with  milk  and 
bake  in  a  hot  oven  twenty-five  minutes.  Take  from 
oven,  brush  over  with  melted  butter  and  sprinkle 
with  powdered  sugar. 

Hot  Cross  Buns 

1  cup  scalded  milk  ^  cup  butter 

1  tablespoon  sugar  1  tablespoon  lard 

1  yeast  cake  J4  CUP  sugar 

1  cup  flour  Grated  rind  ]/%  lemon 

%  teaspoon  salt  ^  cup  raisins  or  currants 

Flour 

Add  sugar  to  milk,  and  when  lukewarm,  add  yeast 
cake,  broken  in  small  pieces.  Cover  and  let  stand 
twenty  minutes;  then  add  one  cup  flour,  and  salt; 
cover  and  let  rise  until  light.  Work  butter  and  lard 
until  creamy  and  add  sugar,  gradually,  and  lemon 
rind.  Combine  mixtures  and  add  flour  to  make  a  stiff 
batter  (the  amount  required  being  about  one  and 
one-half  cups).  Cover,  again  let  rise,  add  raisins 
(seeded  and  cut  in  pieces)  or  currants,  and  enough 
more  flour  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Cover,  again  let 
rise,  shape  in  the  form  of  large  biscuits,  arrange  on 
buttered  tin  sheet  one  inch  apart,  cover,  let  rise, 
brush  over  with  yolk  of  egg  diluted  with  one  teaspoon 
cold  water,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  twenty-five  min- 


24  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

utes.  Remove  from  oven  and  garnish  top  of  each 
with  cross  made  of  ornamental  frosting  forced 
through  a  pastry  bag  and  tube. 

Swedish  Wreaths 

Work  into  one  cup  bread  dough  one-half  cup 
butter  and  one-fourth  cup  lard,  using  the  hands. 
When  thoroughly  blended  toss  on  a  floured  board 
and  knead,  using  just  enough  flour  to  prevent 
sticking.  Cut  off  pieces  and  roll  same  as  very  small 
bread  sticks;  then  shape  into  rings.  Dip  upper 
surface  in  Jordan  almonds,  blanched,  chopped,  and 
seasoned  with  salt.  Arrange  on  buttered  baking 
sheet  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  until  delicately  browned. 
A  delicious  accompaniment  to  afternoon  tea  or  a 
dinner  salad. 


'KIKD  BREAD.  — Pag*  20. 


m  I 


RAISED  DOUGHNUTS.  —  Page  36. 


THE  SHAPING  OF  HOLLAND  BRIOCHE  CAKES.  -—  Page  20. 


HOLLAND  BRIOCHE  CAKES.  —  Page  20. 


CHAPTER  IV 

QUICK  BREADS,  MUFFINS,  AND   DOUGHNUTS 

Emergency  Drop  Muffins 

1  Yi  cups  pastry  flour  3  tablespoons  lard 

3J/-2  teaspoons  baking  powder  %  cup  milk 

%  teaspoon  salt  %  cup  water 

MIX  and   sift   flour,  baking  powder,  and   salt. 
Work  in  lard,  using  the  tips  of  the  finger; 
then  add  milk  and  water,  mixing  quickly.     Drop 
by   spoonfuls    into   buttered,   hot    iron   gem   pans 
and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  fifteen  minutes. 

Manhattan  Muffins 

J4  cup  butter  1  cup  milk 

^  cup  sugar  2  cups  bread  flour 

1  egg  l/i  teaspoon  salt 

4  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Cream  butter,  and  add  gradually,  while  beating 
constantly,  sugar;  then  add  egg  well  beaten,  milk, 
and  flour  mixed  and  sifted  with  salt  and  baking 
powder.  Beat  thoroughly  and  bake  in  buttered 
gem  pans  in  a  hot  oven  twenty-five  minutes. 

Tea  Muffins 

3  tablespoons  butter  1  cup  milk 

%  cup  sugar  2  cups  flour 

1  egg  2  teaspoons  cream  of  tartar 

1  teaspoon  soda  1  teaspoon  salt 


26  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

Cream  butter,  add  sugar,  gradually,  and  egg, 
well  beaten;  then  add  milk,  alternately,  with  flour 
mixed  and  sifted  with  remaining  ingredients.  Turn 
into  buttered  gem  pans  and  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  from  twenty  to  twenty-five  minutes. 

Rye  Breakfast  Gems 

1  cup  rye  flour  5  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1  cup  bread  flour  2  eggs 

Yz  teaspoon  salt  1  cup  milk  . 

2  tablespoons  molasses 

Mix  and  sift  flour,  salt,  and  baking  powder;  then 
add  eggs,  well  beaten,  milk,  and  molasses.  Beat 
thoroughly  and  bake  in  buttered  gem  pans  in  a  hot 
oven  twenty-five  minutes. 

Oatmeal  Muffins 

2  cups  rolled  oats  1  egg,  well  beaten 
\y%  cups  sour  milk  1  teaspoon  soda 
^  cup  melted  butter  %  teaspoon  salt 
$6  CUP  sugar  1  cup  flour 

Soak  rolled  oats  in  sour  milk  over  night.  In  the 
morning  add  remaining  ingredients;  fill  buttered 
iron  gem  pans  with  mixture  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven 
twenty  minutes. 

Virginia  Corn  Cake 

1  cup  corn  meal  %  teaspoon  salt 
]/2  cup  flour  1  egg 

2  tablespoons  baking  J^  cup  sugar 

powder  y%  cup  milk 

2  tablespoons  melted  butter 


QUICK  BREADS,  MUFFINS,  AND  DOUGHNUTS    27 

« 

Mix  and  sift  corn  meal,  flour,  baking  powder,  and 
salt.  Beat  egg  and  add  sugar.  Combine  mixtures 
and  add  milk  and  butter.  Turn  into  a  buttered  pan 
and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  twenty  minutes. 

Corn  Meal  Crisps 

%  cup  corn  meal  2l/2  tablespoons  melted  butter 

1  cup  boiling  water  Yz  teaspoon  salt 

Add  corn  meal  gradually  to  boiling  water  and 
when  smooth  add  butter  and  salt.  Spread  evenly 
on  a  buttered  inverted  dripping  pan  to  one-eighth 
inch  in  thickness,  using  a  long  broad-bladed  knife. 
Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  well  browned.  Cut 
in  two  and  one-half  inch  squares,  remove  from  pan 
and  serve  at  once. 

Forest  Hall  Corn  Sticks 

1  cup  corn  meal  %  cup  hot,  boiled  hominy 
%  cup  flour                                ^  cup  butter  . 

3  teaspoons  baking  powder       1  cup  milk 
Yv.  teaspoon  salt  1  egg 

Sift  together  corn  meal,  flour,  baking  powder,  and 
salt;  then  add  hominy,  to  which  have  been  added 
butter,  milk,  and  egg  well  beaten..  Turn  into  but- 
tered bread  stick  pans  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
twenty  minutes. 

Southern  Spoon  Corn  Bread 

2  cups  white  corn  meal  Yolks  2  eggs 

2J^  cups  boiling  water  \Yz  cups  buttermilk 

1  Yz  tablespoons  melted  butter  1  teaspoon  soda 

\Yz  teaspoons  salt  Whites  2  eggs 


28  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

Add  corn  meal  gradually  to  boiling  water  and  let 
stand  until  cool.  Then  add  butter,  salt,  egg  yolks, 
slightly  beaten,  and  buttermilk  mixed  with  soda. 
Beat  two  minutes  and  add  whites  of  eggs  beaten 
until  stiff.  Turn  into  a  buttered  pudding  dish  and 
bake  in  a  hot  oven  forty  minutes. 

Littleton  Spider  Corn  Cake 

1  %  cups  corn  meal  2  eggs 

Yz  cup  flour  2  cups  sweet  milk 

1  cup  sour  milk  34  cup  sug*ar 

1  teaspoon  soda  [scant]  Y%  teaspoon  salt 

\%  tablespoons  butter 

Mix  and  sift  corn  meal  and  flour  and  add  sour 
milk  mixed  with  soda,  eggs,  well  beaten,  one-half  the 
sweet  milk,  sugar,  and  salt.  Heat  an  iron  frying-pan, 
add  butter,  and,  when  melted,  turn  in  mixture. 
Pour  over  remaining  milk  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven. 
Cut  in  pie-shaped  pieces  for  serving. 

^  Southern  Pone 

1  pint  milk  3  tablespoons  butter 

1  cup  granulated  Indian  meal       2  eggs 

1  teaspoon  salt  1  teaspoon  baking  powder 

Scald  milk  and  add  gradually  Indian  meal,  salt, 
and  butter.  Cool  slightly  and  add  eggs,  well  beaten, 
and  baking  powder.  Turn  into  a  buttered  earthen 
dish  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  thirty-five  min- 
utes. Cut  in  pie-shaped  pieces  for  serving. 


QUICK  BREADS,  MUFFINS,  AND  DOUGHNUTS    29 

Bran  Muffins 

1  cup  flour  2  cups  bran 

1  teaspoon  soda  11A  cups  milk 

1  teaspoon  salt  1A  cup  molasses 
legg 

Mix  and  sift  flour,  soda  and  salt.  Add  bran,  milk, 
molasses  and  egg,  well  beaten.  Bake  in  buttered 
individual  tins.  The  egg  may  be  omitted  and  the 
result  will  be  satisfactory. 


Rye  Popovers 

Yz  cup  rye  meal  1  cup  milk 

Yz  cup  flour  2  eggs 

Y±  teaspoon  salt  1  teaspoon  melted  butter 

Mix  and  sift  dry  ingredients,  add  milk  gradually, 
eggs,  well  beaten,  and  butter.  Beat  two  minutes, 
using  an  egg  beater.  Turn  into  hissing  hot  buttered 
iron  gem  pans  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  from  thirty- 
five  to  forty  minutes. 

Sultana  Biscuits 

2  cups  flour  3  tablespoons  lard 

4  teaspoons  baking  powder  2  tablespoons  butter 

1  teaspoon  salt  K  cup  milk 

34  cup  Sultana  raisins 

Mix  and  sift  flour,  baking  powder,  and  salt.  Work 
in  lard  and  butter,  using  a  case  knife  or  tips  of 
fingers;  then  add  milk  and  raisins.  Toss  on  a 
slightly  floured  board,  pat  and  roll  to  one-third  inch 
in  thickness  and  shape  with  a  very  small  round 


30  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

cutter,  first  dipped  in  flour.  Put  close  together  in  a 
buttered  pan  and  bake  seven  minutes  in  a  hot  oven. 
Split  and  spread  with  butter.  Pile  on  a  plate  cov- 
ered with  a  doily  and  serve  with  afternoon  tea. 

Sardine  Biscuits 

Make  same  as  Sultana  Biscuits  omitting  rais- 
ins. Split  while  hot,  spread  under  parts  with 
sardines  (from  which  skin  and  bones  have  been 
removed)  flaked,  seasoned  with  salt  and  moist- 
ened with  sardine  oil.  Put  on  tops  and  pile  on 
a  plate  covered  with  a  lace  paper  doily.  An  after- 
noon tea  novelty. 

Cheese  Biscuits 

1  cup  bread  flour  y%  tablespoon  butter 
2^  teaspoons  baking  powder          ^  cup  milk  and  water 
Yz  teaspoon  salt  in  equal  parts 

3^2  tablespoon  lard  3^  CUP  grated  cheese 

Mix  and  sift  dry  ingredients.  Work  in  lard  and 
butter  with  tips  of  fingers  and  add  liquid  gradually; 
then  add  cheese.  Toss  on  a  floured  board  and  pat 
and  roll  to  one-third  inch  in  thickness,  shape  with  a 
small  round  cutter,  first  dipped  in  flour,  place  in  a 
buttered  pan  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  ten  minutes. 
Serve  hot  as  an  accompaniment  to  a  dinner  salad. 

Afternoon  Tea  Crackers 

2  cups  bread  flour  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 
1  cup  butter  ^  teaspoon  salt 

Milk 


HOT  Ciiuss  BUNS. —  Page  23. 


SWEDISH  WREATHS.  —  Page  24. 


CREAM  WAFERS.  —  Page  31. 


AFTERNOON  TEA  DOUGHNUTS.  —  Page  37. 


QUICK  BREADS,  MUFFINS,  AND  DOUGHNUTS    31 

Mix  and  sift  dry  ingredients  and  work  in  butter, 
using  the  tips  of  the  fingers.  Add  milk  to  make  a 
stiff  dough,  toss  on  a  floured  board  and  pat  and 
roll  to  one-fourth  inch  in  thickness.  Shape  with  a 
round  cutter  (one  and  three-fourths  inches  in  di- 
ameter) first  dipped  in  flour,  arrange  on  buttered 
sheet  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  ten  minutes.  Split,  while 
hot,  return  to  oven  and  bake  until  a  golden  brown. 
These  crackers  will  keep  for  weeks  without  crumbling. 

Cream  Wafers 

Mix  and  sift  one  and  one-half  cups  pastry  flour 
and  one  teaspoon  salt.  Add,  gradually,  heavy  cream 
to  make  a  dough,  the  quantity  required  being  a  scant 
half-cup.  Toss  on  a  slightly  floured  cloth  and  knead 
until  smooth.  Pat  and  roll  as  thin  as  possible.  Prick 
with  a  fork  and  shape  with  a  small  round  or  fancy 
cutter,  first  dipped  in  flour.  Arrange  on  a  buttered 
sheet  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  delicately 
browned.  Serve  with  salad  course,  or  as  an  accom- 
paniment to  five  o'clock  tea. 

Quick  Graham  Bread 

2  cups  Graham  flour  1  teaspoon  salt 

y%  cup  white  flour  4  tablespoons  melted  lard 

Ys  cup  sugar  \1A  cups  sour  milk 

1  tablespoon  baking  powder  1  teaspoon  soda 

Mix  and  sift  flour,  sugar,  baking  powder,  and  salt ; 
then  add  lard  and  sour  milk  mixed  with  soda.  Turn 
into  a  buttered  bread  pan  and  bake  from  forty-five 
to  fifty  minutes. 


32  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 


Quick  Nut  Loaf 

2  cups  bread  flour  2  tablespoons  lard 
Yv.  cup  sugar  1  egg 

4  teaspoons  baking  powder     Yolk  1  egg 

1  teaspoon  salt  1  cup  milk 

3  tablespoons  butter  }/%  cup  English  walnut  meats 

Mix  and  sift  flour,  sugar,  baking  powder,  and  salt. 
Work  in  butter  and  lard,  using  the  tips  of  the  fingers ; 
then  add  egg  and  egg  yolk  well  beaten,  milk,  and 
walnut  meats,  broken  in  pieces.  Beat  thoroughly 
and  turn  into  a  buttered  bread  pan.  Let  stand 
twenty  minutes;  then  bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
forty  minutes.  A  delicious  bread  for  sandwiches. 

Quick  Pecan  Nut  Bread 

2  cups  unsifted  Graham  3  teaspoons  baking  powder 

flour  2  cups  buttermilk 

1  cup  pastry  flour  \%  teaspoons  soda 

2£  cup  brown  sugar  1  cup  pecan  nut  meats, 
1  teaspoon  salt  finely  cut 

To  Graham  flour  add  pastry  flour,  sugar,  salt,  and 
baking  powder.  When  thoroughly  mixed  add  re- 
maining ingredients.  Turn  into  a  buttered  bread 
pan,  cover  and  let  stand  twenty  minutes.  Bake  in 
.a  moderate  oven  forty-five  minutes. 

Luncheon  Caraway  Bread 

24  cup  butter  1  tablespoon  baking  powder 

%  cup  sugar  %  cup  milk 

1  egg  1  tablespoon  carraway  seeds 

1%  cups  flour  %  teaspoon  vanilla 

24  teaspoon  salt 


QUICK  BREADS,  MUFFINS,  AND  DOUGHNUTS    33 

Cream  butter  and  add  sugar  gradually  and  egg 
well  beaten.  Mix  and  sift  flour  and  baking  powder, 
and  add  alternately  with  milk  to  first  mixture;  then 
add  caraway  seeds,  vanilla,  and  salt.  Turn  into  a 
buttered  and  floured  cake  pan,  sprinkle  with  sugar, 
and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  thirty-five  minutes. 
Remove  from  pan,  cut  in  squares,  and  serve  hot. 

Cinnamon  Toast 

Cut  stale  bread  in  one-fourth  inch  slices,  remove 
crusts,  and  cut  in  three  pieces,  crosswise.  Toast, 
spread  with  butter  and  sprinkle  with  sugar,  mixed 
with  cinnamon,  using  three  parts  sugar  to  one  part 
cinnamon. 


N/ 


English  Dumplings 

pound  beef  suet  Y^  teaspoon  pepper 

1  %  cups  flour  1  teaspoon  minced  parsley 

3  teaspoons  baking  powder  ^  teaspoon  onion  juice 

1  teaspoon  salt  %  cup  cold  water 

Force  suet  through  meat  chopper.  Mix  and  sift 
flour,  baking  powder,  salt,  and  pepper,  and  work  in 
suet,  using  the  fingers;  then  add  parsley  and  onion 
juice,  and  moisten  to  a  dough  with  water.  Drop  by 
spoonfuls  into  buttered  timbale  moulds,  having 
moulds  two-thirds  full.  Cover  with  buttered  paper 
and  steam  one  hour. 

\  Sweet  Potato  Waffles 

1  cup  mashed  sweet  potato  %  cup  melted  butter 

1  cup  bread  flour  1  cup  milk 

%  cup  sugar  1  egg 


34  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

Mix  first  five  ingredients  in  the  order  given;  then 
add  egg  yolk,  beaten  until  thick,  and  egg  white 
beaten  until  stiff.  Cook  in  greased  wafHe  iron  over 
a  hot  fire. 

Buttermilk  Griddle  Cakes 

1  cup  buttermilk  y%  teaspoon  salt 

%  cup  sweet  milk  1  tablespoon  melted  butter 

1  egg,  well  beaten  2  tablespoons  granulated 

1  teaspoon  soda  corn  meal 

2  cups  flour 

Mix  ingredients  in  order  given.  Drop  by  spoon- 
fuls on  a  greased  hot  griddle.  Cook  on  one  side; 
when  puffed,  full  of  bubbles  and  cooked  on  edges, 
turn  and  cook  other  side. 

Serve  with  butter  and  maple  syrup. 

Cheap  Doughnuts  (without  Shortening) 

4  cups  flour  1  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  sugar  }/%  nutmeg,  grated 

2  teaspoons  cream-of-tartar  2  eggs 
1  teaspoon  soda  Milk 

Mix  and  sift  dry  ingredients,  add  eggs,  well  beaten, 
and  milk,  the  amount  required  being  about  three- 
fourths  cup,  sometimes  more  but  never  as  much  as 
a  cup.  Toss  on  a  slightly  floured  board,  pat,  roll, 
shape,  and  fry.  Remove  from  fat,  using  a  two-tined 
fork,  and  pass  quickly  through  water  kept  at  the 
boiling  point.  The  fork  must  be  wiped  each  time 
before  putting  into  fat. 


QUICK  BREADS,  MUFFINS,  AND  DOUGHNUTS    35 

Sour-milk  Doughnuts 

1  egg  4  cups  flour 

1  cup  sugar  1  %  teaspoons  soda 

1  cup  sour  milk  1  %  teaspoons  cream-of- 

1  ^2  tablespoons  melted  tartar 

lard  \Y^  teaspoons  salt 

1  teaspoon  grated  nutmeg 

Beat  egg  until  light  and  add  sugar,  milk,  and  lard. 
Mix  and  sift  flour  with  remaining  ingredients  and 
add  to  first  mixture.  Toss  on  a  floured  cloth,  knead 
slightly,  pat  and  roll  to  one-fourth  inch  in  thick- 
ness, shape  with  a  doughnut  cutter,  first  dipped  in 
flour,  fry  in  deep  fat,  take  up  on  a  skewer,  and  drain 
on  brown  paper. 

Chocolate  Doughnuts 

%  cup  butter  4  cups  flour 

1  l/i  cups  sugar  1  teaspoon  soda 

2  eggs  1  teaspoon  cinnamon 
1 Y^  squares  melted  chocolate  %  teaspoon  salt 

,1  cup  sour  milk  1  ^  teaspoons  vanilla 

Cream  butter  and  add  sugar  gradually,  while 
beating  constantly;  then  add  eggs,  well  beaten, 
melted  chocolate,  sour  milk,  and  flour,  mixed  and 
sifted  with  soda,  cinnamon,  and  salt.  Add  vanilla, 
and  enough  more  flour  to  handle  the  mixture.  Toss 
on  a  slightly  floured  cloth,  knead  slightly,  pat  and 
roll  to  one-fourth  inch  in  thickness,  shape  with  a 
doughnut  cutter,  first  dipped  in  flour,  fry  in  deep 
fat  and  drain  on  brown  paper. 


36  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

Raised  Doughnuts 

3^  tablespoons  sugar  ^  yeast  cake 

1  teaspoon  salt  2  tablespoons  lukewarm 

1  cup  scalded  milk  water 

2  tablespoons  lard  3  cups  flour 

Mix  sugar  and  salt,  pour  over  scalded  milk,  and 
add  lard.  When  mixture  is  lukewarm,  add  yeast 
cake  dissolved  in  lukewarm  water,  and  one  cup  flour. 
Cover,  let  rise  until  light,  and  add  two  cups  flour. 
Toss  on  a  slightly  floured  board  and  knead.  Cover, 
again  let  rise  and  knead;  repeat.  Pat  and  roll  to 
one-half  inch  in  thickness,  and  cut  in  strips  eight 
inches  long  by  three-fourths  inch  wide.  Put  on 
board,  cover  and  let  rise.  Twist  several  times, 
pinch  ends  together,  drop  into  hot  deep  fat,  fry 
until  delicately  browned  and  drain  on  brown  paper. 

Health  Food  Doughnuts 

^  cup  sugar  1  cup  sour  milk 

%  cup  molasses  1  teaspoon  soda 

%  cup  hot  mashed  1^  teaspoons  salt 

potatoes  %  teaspoon  grated  nutmeg 

1  egg  2  cups  entire  wheat  flour 

Mix  sugar,  molasses,  potatoes,  and  egg  well 
beaten;  then  add  sour  milk  and  flour  mixed  and 
sifted  with  soda,  salt,  and  nutmeg.  Toss  on  a  floured 
cloth,  knead  slightly,  pat,  and  roll  to  one-fourth 
inch  in  thickness..  Shape  with  a  doughnut  cutter, 
first  dipped  in  flour,  fry  in  deep  fat  and  drain  on 
brown  paper.  Sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar. 


QUICK  BREADS,  MUFFINS,  AND  DOUGHNUTS    37 

^Afternoon  Tea  Doughnuts 

1  egg  1  tablespoon  melted 

2  tablespoons  sugar  shortening 
Yz  teaspoon  salt  1  cup  flour 

3  tablespoons  milk  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Beat  egg  until  light,  and  add  sugar,  salt,  and 
shortening.  Mix  and  sift  flour  and  baking  powder 
and  add  to  first  mixture.  Force  through  a  pastry 
bag  and  tube  (using  a  small  lady  finger  tube)  into 
hot  deep  fat,  and  fry  until  browned.  Drain  on  brown 
paper  and  sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar.  Serve 
with  Julienne-shaped  pieces  of  American  factory 
cheese  as  an  accompaniment  to  five  o'clock  tea. 


CHAPTER  V 
CEREAL,  CHEESE,  AND  VEGETARIAN  DISHES 

Samp 

3^2  cup  samp  2^£  cups  boiling  water 

Cold  water  1  teaspoon  salt 


samp  with  cold  water,  and  let  stand  five 
or  six  hours.  Drain,  put  in  double  boiler  and 
add  boiling  water  and  salt.  Bring  to  boiling  point, 
place  over  under  part  of  double  boiler  (containing 
boiling  water)  and  let  steam  four  or  five  hours,  or 
cook  in  fireless  cooker  over  night. 

Parched  Rice  with  Tomato  Sauce 

Pick  over  three-fourths  cup  rice  and  add  slowly  to 
two  quarts  boiling  water,  to  which  is  added  one 
tablespoon  salt.  Let  boil  twenty-five  minutes,  or 
until  kernels  are  soft.  Drain,  and  pour  over  one 
quart  hot  water;  return  to  kettle  in  which  it  was 
cooked,  and  let  stand  until  cool  and  dry,  when 
kernels  will  be  distinct.  Heat  an  iron  frying  pan 
very  hot,  add  two  tablespoons  butter,  and  when 
melted,  add  rice,  and  cook  until  rice  is  slightly 
browned,  stirring  lightly  with  a  fork.  Put  in  a  hot 
serving  dish,  pour  over  one  cup  hot  tomato  sauce 
and  sprinkle  with  one-half  cup  grated  cheese,  lift- 


CEREAL,  CHEESE,  AND  VEGETARIAN  DISHES    39 

ing  rice  with  fork,  that  sauce  and  cheese  may  coat 
each  kernel. 

Tomato  Sauce 

2  tablespoons  butter  1  cup  stewed  and  strained 

1  slice  onion  tomatoes 

2J^  tablespoons  flour  K  teaspoon  salt 

Few  grains  paprika 

Cook  butter  with  onion  until  slightly  browned, 
add  flour,  and  when  well  browned,  pour  on,  gradu- 
ally, while  stirring  constantly,  tomatoes.  Bring  to 
the  boiling  point,  add  seasonings,  and  strain. 

Fried  Rice 

Pick  over  and  wash  one-half  cup  rice.  Cook  in 
double  boiler  with  one-half  cup  boiling  water,  until 
rice  has  absorbed  water.  Add  one  cup  scalded  milk 
or  boiling  water  and  three-fourths  teaspoon  salt,  and 
continue  the  cooking  until  rice  is  soft,  adding  more 
liquid  if  necessary.  Turn  into  a  dish  and  let  stand 
until  cold.  Take  up  in  pieces  on  tip  of  spoon  and 
plunge  into  deep  fat;  fry  until  delicately  browned 
and  drain  on  brown  paper.  Serve  as  a  substitute 
for  potatoes,  or  as  an  entree  with  fruit  sauce. 

Rice  Croquettes,  Cheese  Sauce 

%  cup  rice  2  tablespoons  chopped  canned 
^  cup  boiling  water  pimientos 

1  }4  cups  milk  H  teaspoon  salt 

}4  cup  cream  Few  grains  cayenne 


40  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

Soak  rice  over  night  in  cold  water  to  cover.  Drain, 
add  boiling  water,  and  cook  in  double  boiler  until 
rice  has  absorbed  water;  then  add  milk  and  cook 
until  rice  has  absorbed  milk.  Add  cream,  pimientos 
chopped  and  drained,  and  salt  and  cayenne.  Spread 
in  plate,  cool,  shape,  dip  in  crumbs,  egg  and  crumbs, 
fry  in  deep  fat  and  drain  on  brown  paper.  Pile  on 
serving  dish,  pour  around  Cheese  Sauce  and  garnish 
with  parsley. 

Cheese  Saiice.  —  Melt  three  tablespoons  butter, 
add  three  tablespoons  flour,  and  stir  until  well 
blended;  then  pour  on  gradually,  while  stirring 
constantly,  one  and  one-half  cups  milk.  Bring  to 
the  boiling  point,  and  add  one-half  teaspoon  salt, 
one-eighth  teaspoon  pepper,  and  one  cup  mild  cheese, 
grated  or  cut  in  small  cubes. 

Little  Brahmins 

H  cup  rice  Yolks  2  eggs 

Yz  cup  boiling  water  1  tablespoon  butter 

Yz  teaspoon  salt  }/%  teaspoon  paprika 

J}4  cups  scalded  milk  1  tablespoon  tomato 

catsup 

Wash  rice,  put  in  double  boiler,  add  boiling  water 
and  salt,  and  cook  until  rice  has  absorbed  water; 
then  add  milk  and  cook  until  rice  is  soft.  Add 
remaining  ingredients  and  spread  on  a  plate  to 
cool.  Shape  in  the  form  of  chickens;  dip  in 
crumbs,  egg  and  crumbs,  fry  in  deep  fat  and 
drain  on  brown  paper.  Insert  pepper-corns  or 


FRIED  HICE.  —  Page  3!). 


LriTLE  BRAHMINS.  —  Page  40. 


LITTLE  DUCKLINGS.  —  Page  41 


SHAPLEIGH  LUNCHEON  CHEESE.  —  Page  48. 


CEREAL,  CHEESE,  AND  VEGETARIAN  DISHES    41 

allspice  berries  to  represent  eyes,  and  arrange  on 
a  hot  platter. 

Little  Ducklings 

Use  same  mixture  as  for  Little  Brahmins.  Shape 
in  the  form  of  little  ducklings.  Dip  in  crumbs,  egg 
and  crumbs,  fry  in  deep  fat  and  drain  on  brown 
paper.  Insert  allspice  berries  to  represent  eyes. 

Baked  Hominy,  Southern  Style 

%  cup  fine  hominy  %  cup  butter 

1  teaspoon  salt  1  tablespoon  sugar 

1  cup  boiling  water  1  egg 
2  cups  milk 

Mix  water  and  salt  and  add  gradually,  while 
stirring  constantly,  hominy.  Bring  to  the  boiling 
point  and  let  boil  two  minutes.  Then  cook  in 
double  boiler  until  water  is  absorbed.  Add  one  cup 
milk,  stirring  thoroughly,  and  cook  one  hour.  Re- 
move from  range  and  add  butter,  sugar,  egg  slightly 
beaten,  and  remaining  milk.  Turn  into  a  buttered 
dish  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven  one  hour. 

Hominy  and  Horseradish  Croquettes 

yi  cup  hominy  2  tablespoons  butter 

y<i  cup  boiling  water  3H  teaspoons  grated  horse- 

Yz  teaspoon  salt  radish  root 

%  cup  scalded  milk 

Steam  hominy  with  water  until  water  is  absorbed; 
then  add  salt  and  milk  and  steam  until  tender.  Add 


42  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

butter  and  horseradish.  Cool,  shape,  dip  in  crumbs, 
egg  and  crumbs,  fry  in  deep  fat  and  drain  on  brown 
paper. 

Macaroni,  Virginia  Style 

\]/2  cups  macaroni  1%  cups  white  sauce 

2  tablespoons  butter  3  tablespoons  dried  bread 
1  teaspoon  mustard  crumbs 

%  cup  grated  cheese 

Break  macaroni  in  one-inch  pieces  and  cook  in 
boiling,  salted  water  twenty  minutes  or  until  soft; 
drain  in  colander  and  pour  over  one  quart  cold 
water.  Put  half  in  buttered  baking  dish,  dot  over 
with  one-fourth  the  butter  and  sprinkle  with  one- 
half  the  mustard  and  cheese;  repeat,  pour  over 
white  sauce,  cover  with  dried  bread  crumbs  mixed 
with  remaining  butter  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  until 
crumbs  are  brown. 

White  Sauce.  —  Melt  three-fourths  tablespoon 
butter,  add  three-fourths  tablespoon  flour  and  stir 
until  blended;  then  pour  on  gradually,  while  stirring 
constantly,  one  and  one-fourth  cups  milk.  Bring 
to  the  boiling  point  and  add  one-half  teaspoon  salt. 

Baked  Macaroni  with  Chipped  Beef 

Break  macaroni  in  one-inch  pieces  (there  should 
be  three-fourths  cup)  and  cook  in  boiling,  salted 
water  until  soft;  drain  and  pour  over  one  quart 
cold  water.  Remove  skin  from  one-fourth  pound 
thinly  sliced  smoked  dried  beef  and  separate  in 


CEREAL,  CHEESE,  AND  VEGETARIAN  DISHES     43 

pieces.  Cover  with  hot  water,  let  stand  ten  minutes, 
and  drain.  Arrange  in  buttered  baking  dish  alter- 
nate layers  of  macaroni  and  dried  beef,  having  two 
of  each.  Pour  over  two  cups  white  sauce,  cover 
with  three-fourths  cup  buttered  cracker  crumbs 
and  bake  in  hot  oven  until  crumbs  are  brown.  For 
the  White  Sauce,  melt  four  tablespoons  butter, 
add  three  tablespoons  flour  and  stir  until  well 
blended,  then  pour  on  gradually,  while  stirring 
constantly,  two  cups  milk.  Bring  to  the  boiling 
point  and  add  one-half  teaspoon  salt  and  one-eighth 
teaspoon  pepper. 

Baked  Macaroni  with  Peanut  Butter 

1  cup  macaroni,  broken  3K  tablespoons  peanut 

in  1-inch  pieces  butter 

2  cups  milk  1  teaspoon  salt 

M  cup  buttered  bread  crumbs 

Cook  macaroni  in  boiling  salted  water  twenty 
minutes,  or  until  soft,  drain  in  strainer,  and  pour 
over  one  quart  cold  water  to  prevent  pieces  from 
adhering;  then  put  in  buttered  baking  dish.  Heat 
milk  in  double  boiler,  and  add  gradually  to  peanut 
butter.  Pour  over  macaroni,  cover  and  bake  in  a 
slow  oven  forty  minutes.  Remove  cover,  sprinkle 
with  crumbs,  and  bake  until  crumbs  are  brown. 

Italian  Spaghetti 

Take  one-fourth  pound  spaghetti  in  hand  and  dip 
ends  in  boiling,  salted  water.  As  spaghetti  softens 


44  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

it  will  bend  easily,  when  it  may  be  coiled  under  the 
boiling  water.  Let  boil  twenty  minutes  or  until 
soft;  drain  in  a  colander  and  pour  over  one  quart 
cold  water.  Arrange  on  a  hot  platter,  over  which 
have  been  poured  two  tablespoons  olive  oil,  and  pour 
over  the  following  sauce:  Remove  fat  and  meat 
from  three  pork  chops  and  cut  in  pieces.  Put  in 
saucepan  with  one  small  onion,  peeled  and  sliced, 
and  cook,  stirring  frequently  until  well  browned, 
then  add  one  quart  can  tomatoes,  one-half  teaspoon 
salt,  and  one-eighth  teaspoon  paprika.  Bring  to 
the  boiling  point  and  let  simmer  very  slowly  two  and 
one-half  hours.  Force  through  a  puree  strainer. 

Napoli  Spaghetti 

4  slices  bacon  }/$  teaspoon  pepper 

1  sliced  onion  %  teaspoon  allspice 

Y<L  can  tomatoes  K  teaspoon  mace 

Yz  box  Italian  tomato  paste  Few  grains  cayenne 

H  teaspoon  salt  Bit  of  bay  leaf 

Hot,  boiled  spaghetti 

Cut  bacon  in  small  pieces  and  try  out.  Add  re- 
maining ingredients,  except  spaghetti,  bring  gradu- 
ally to  the  boiling  point,  and  let  simmer  fifty  minutes. 
Pour  over  cooked  spaghetti  and  let  stand  ten  min- 
utes. Serve  very  hot. 

^  Liptaner  Cheese 

1  cream  cheese  2  anchovies,  finely  chopped 

J^  cup  butter  1  shallot,  finely  chopped 

1  teaspoon  capers  ^  teaspoon  caraway  seed 

1  teaspoon  paprika  }/%  teaspoon  salt 


CEREAL,  CHEESE,  AND  VEGETARIAN  DISHES    45 

Work  cheese  (large  size)  and  add  butter  gradually. 
When  thoroughly  blended,  add  remaining  ingredients. 
Press  into  a  small  mould  and  let  stand  in  ice  box 
to  season.  Remove  from  mould  and  serve  with 
crackers. 

Moulded  Cheese  with  Bar-le-Duc  Strawberries 

Mash  cream  cheese  and  press  into  a  cone-shaped 
mould.  Remove  from  mould,  cover  with  whipped 
cream  sweetened  with  powdered  sugar,  and  pour 
around  strawberries.  Serve  with  unsweetened  wafer 
crackers. 

Toasted  Fromage  Rolls 

Cut  fresh  bread  while  still  warm  in  as  thin  slices 
as  possible,  using  a  very  sharp  knife,  and  remove 
crusts.  Work  butter  until  creamy,  add  an  equal 
measure  of  grated  Young  American  cheese,  and  work 
until  thoroughly  blended;  then  season  with  salt  and 
paprika.  Spread  bread  with  mixture  and  roll  each 
piece  separately.  Toast  over  a  clear  fire  and  serve 
hot  with  the  salad  course. 

/Frozen  Cheese  Alexandra 

Y<L  cup  butter  y%  teaspoon  paprika 

%  Ib.  Roquefort  cheese  1  teaspoon  finely  cut  chives 

1  teaspoon  salt  2  tablespoons  Sherry 

Cream  butter,  add  cheese,  and  work  until  well 
blended;  then  add  remaining  ingredients.  Pack  in 
a  small  mould,  surround  with  finely  crushed  ice  and 


46  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

rock  salt,  using  equal  parts,  and  let  stand  one  hour. 
Remove  from  mould  and  serve  with  hot  toasted  rye 
bread. 

Pimiento  Cheese  Wafers 

Mash  a  pimiento  cream  cheese,  moisten  with 
cream  and  force  through  a  pastry  bag  and  tube  on 
unsweetened  wafer  crackers.  If  a  pimiento  cream 
cheese  is  not  obtainable  add  one  tablespoon  finely 
chopped  canned  pimiento  and  a  few  grains  salt  to  one 
ten-cent  cream  cheese. 

Piquante  Cheese  Crackers 

Yz  pound  American  Factory  2  tablespoons  butter 

Cheese  1  teaspoon  mustard 

3  tablespoons  Sherry  wine  j^z  teaspoon  salt 

2  tablespoons  cream  Few  grains  cayenne 

Cut  cheese  in  pieces  and  force  through  a  meat 
chopper.  Add  Sherry  wine,  cream,  butter  wrorked 
until  creamy,  and  seasonings.  Force  mixture 
through  a  pastry  bag  and  tube  on  thin,  unsweetened 
wafer  crackers. 

Walnut  Deceits 

Work  a  ten-cent  cream  cheese  until  smooth  and 
add  one-fourth  cup  olives,  stoned  and  chopped,  one- 
half  teaspoon  salt,  and  a  few  grains  paprika.  Shape 
in  balls,  roll  in  sifted  cracker  crumbs,  flatten,  and 
place  halves  of  salted  English  walnuts  opposite  each 
other  on  each  piece.  The  olives  may  be  omitted  and 


PIMIEXTO  CHEESE  \VAFEiw.  —  Page  4(i. 


WALNUT  DECEITS.  —  Page  46. 


CEREAL,  CHEESE,  AND  VEGETARIAN  DISHES    47 

unsalted  nuts  may  be  used.     Arrange  on  a  plate 
covered  with  a  lace  paper  doily. 

Stuffed  Figs 

Mash  cream  cheese,  moisten  with  heavy-  cream  and 
season  highly  with  salt  and  cayenne;  then  make 
into  balls  three-fourths  inch  in  diameter.  Wash  and 
dry  figs,  make  an  incision  in  each,  and  stuff  with 
cheese  balls.  Arrange  in  piles  on  a  plate  covered 
with  a  lace  paper  doily.  Serve  as  an  accompani- 
ment to  dressed  lettuce  or  any  light  dinner  salad. 

Lenox  Rarebit 

1  tablespoon  butter  Few  grains  cayenne 

1  cup  milk  6  eggs 

1  teaspoon  salt  1  small  cream  cheese 

%  teaspoon  pepper  Unsweetened  wafer  crackers 

Put  butter  in  blazer  and  when  melted  add  milk, 
seasonings,  and  eggs  beaten  slightly.  Cook  same  as 
scrambled  eggs,  and  when  nearly  done,  add  cheese 
worked  until  soft.  Serve  on  crackers. 

Chilaly 

1  tablespoon  butter  ^  cup  canned  tomato  pulp 

2  tablespoons  chopped  %  pound  soft  mild  cheese 

green  pepper  %  teaspoon  salt 

1  y%  tablespoons  chopped  Few  grains  cayenne 

onion  2  tablespoons  beer 

1  egg 

Cook  butter  with  pepper  and  onion  three  minutes, 
stirring  constantly.  Add  tomatoes,  from  which 


48  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

liquor  has  been  drained,  and  cook  five  minutes.  Add 
cheese,  cut  in  small  pieces,  salt,  and  cayenne.  When 
cheese  is  melted,  add  beer  and  egg  slightly  beaten. 
Serve  on  squares  of  bread,  toasted  on  one  side,  or 
zephyrettes. 

Baked  Rarebit 

1  pound  soft  mild  cheese  \y%  cups  milk 

2  tablespoons  butter  2^  cups  stale  bread 
1%  teaspoons  salt  crumbs 

3/6  teaspoon  paprika  3  eggs 

Cut  cheese  in  thin  slices.  Sprinkle  a  layer  of  bread 
crumbs  in  buttered  baking  dish,  cover  with  one-third 
cheese,  sprinkle  with  one-third  salt  and  paprika 
mixed,  and  repeat  twice,  making  three  layers.  Beat 
eggs  slightly,  add  milk,  and  pour  over  mixture.  Bake 
in  a  moderate  oven  twenty-five  minutes.  Serve  at 
once. 

Shapleigh  Luncheon  Cheese 

Cut  stale  bread  in  one-third  inch  slices.  Spread 
with  butter,  remove  crusts,  and  cut  in  finger-shaped 
pieces.  Arrange  near  together  around  sides  of  a 
buttered  baking  dish,  having  bread  extend  about 
one  inch  above  dish;  also  line  bottom  of  dish. 

Beat  two  eggs  slightly,  add  one  cup  thin  cream, 
one  tablespoon  butter,  one  teaspoon  salt,  one-half 
teaspoon  mustard,  one-fourth  teaspoon  paprika,  a 
few  grains  cayenne,  and  one-half  pound  mild  cheese, 
cut  in  small  pieces.  Pour  mixture  in  dish  and  bake 
thirty  minutes.  Serve  very  hot. 


CEREAL,  CHEESE,  AND  VEGETARIAN  DISHES    49 

Cheese  Souffle 

2  tablespoons  butter  %  teaspoon  salt 

3  tablespoons  flour  Few  grains  cayenne 
Yz  cup  milk  Yolks  3  eggs 

l/i  cup  grated  Young  Whites  2  eggs 

American  Cheese 

Melt  butter  in  blazer,  add  flour,  and  stir  until  well 
blended;  then  pour  on  gradually,  while  stirring  con- 
stantly, one-half  cup  milk.  Bring  to  the  boiling 
point  and  add  cheese,  salt,  and  cayenne.  Put  blazer 
over  hot  water  pan  and  add  yolks  of  eggs,  beaten 
until  thick  and  lemon-colored,  and  cut  and  fold  in 
whites  of  eggs,  beaten  until  stiff  and  dry.  Put  on 
cover  of  chafing  dish  and  cook  until  firm. 

Cheese  Custard,  Bread  Sauce 

4  eggs  3  tablespoons  grated  cheese 
%  cup  cold  water  ^  teaspoon  salt 

%  cup  heavy  cream  ^  teaspoon  pepper 

2l/z  tablespoons  melted  Few  grains  cayenne 

butter  Few  drops  onion  juice 

Beat  eggs  slightly  and  add  remaining  ingredients. 
Turn  into  buttered  timbale  moulds,  set  in  pan  of  hot 
water  and  bake  until  brown.  Remove  to  hot  platter 
and  pour  around 

Bread  Sauce 

1  ]4:  cups  milk  1  YI  tablespoons  butter 

%  cup  fine  stale  bread  ^  teaspoon  salt 

crumbs  Few  grains  pepper 

1  onion  ^  cup  coarse  stale  bread 

5  whole  cloves  crumbs 

1  ^  tablespoons  butter 


50  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

Cook  milk,  bread,  and  onion  stuck  with  cloves  in 
double  boiler,  twenty-five  minutes.  Remove  onion 
and  add  butter,  salt,  and  cayenne.  Pour  over  cus- 
tard and  sprinkle  with  coarse  crumbs  browned  in 
frying  pan  in  remaining  butter. 

Wellington  Cheese  Croquettes 

3  tablespoons  butter  l/s  teaspoon  pepper 
%  cup  flour                               Yolks  2  eggs 

1  cup  milk  2  tablespoons  cream 

Yz  teaspoon  salt  2  cups  soft  mild  cheese,  cut 

in  small  cubes 

Melt  butter,  add  flour,  and  stir  until  well  blended ; 
then  pour  on  gradually,  while  stirring  constantly, 
milk.  Bring  to  the  boiling  point  and  add  egg  yolks 
slightly  beaten  and  diluted  with  cream,  and  cheese. 
Season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Spread  on  a  plate  and 
cool.  Shape,  dip  in  crumbs,  egg  and  crumbs,  fry  in 
deep  fat,  and  drain  on  brown  paper. 

NvCheese  Cakes 

2  tablespoons  butter  Whites  3  eggs 
3^2  tablespoons  flour  %  teaspoon  salt 

4  tablespoons  grated  American  Few  grains  cayenne 

cheese 

Melt  butter,  add  flour,  and  stir  until  well  blended. 
Remove  from  range  and  add  cheese,  salt,  and  cayenne. 
Fold  in  whites  of  eggs,  beaten  until  stiff,  and  drop 
from  tip  of  spoon  on  a  buttered  sheet  one  inch  apart. 
Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  twelve  minutes. 

Serve  as  an  accompaniment  to  a  dinner  salad. 


CEREAL,  CHEESE,  AND  VEGETARIAN  DISHES    51 

Parmesan  Cheese  Sticks 

Toss  one  cup  bread  dough  on  a  floured  board,  pat 
and  roll  in  rectangular  shape  as  thin  as  possible. 
Spread  with  one  tablespoon  butter,  dredge  with 
flour,  and  fold  from  ends  so  as  to  make  three  layers. 
Repeat  three  times  and  cut  in  finger-shaped  pieces. 
Arrange  on  sheet,  cover,  let  stand  fifteen  minutes,  and 
bake.  Remove  from  oven,  brush  over  with  white 
of  egg,  and  roll  in  grated  Parmesan  cheese,  seasoned 
with  salt  and  cayenne.  Return  to  oven  and  bake 
four  minutes. 

-  Pea  Roast 

%  cup  bread  crumbs  1  egg 

I/L  cup  canned  pea  pulp  ^  teaspoon  salt 

1  tablespoon  sugar  ^  teaspoon  pepper 

l/±  tablespoon  English  walnut  \i  cup  butter 

meats,  finely  chopped  %  cup  milk 

Break  stale  bread  in  pieces,  dry  in  oven,  roll  and 
put  through  a  puree  strainer;  there  should  be  three- 
fourths  cup  bread  crumbs.  Drain  canned  peas,  rinse 
thoroughly  with  cold  water,  put  in  saucepan,  cover 
with  cold  water,  bring  to  the  boiling  point  and  let 
boil  three  minutes.  Drain  and  force  through  a 
puree  strainer;  there  should  be  one-half  cup  pulp. 
Mix  bread  crumbs,  pea  pulp,  sugar,  nut  meats,  egg 
slightly  beaten,  salt,  pepper,  and  milk.  Turn  into  a 
small  bread  pan  lined  with  paraffine  paper,  and  let 
stand  fifteen  minutes.  Cover  and  bake  in  a  slow 
oven  forty  minutes.  Remove  to  hot  serving  dish, 
and  garnish  with  Carrot  Timbales  (see  p.  164). 


52  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

Mock  Sausages 

Pick  over  one-half  cup  lima  beans  and  soak  over 
night  in  cold  water  to  cover.  Drain  and  cook  in  boil- 
ing, salted  water  until  soft;  then  force  through  a 
puree  strainer;  there  should  be  three-fourths  cup 
pulp.  Add  one-third  cup  rolled  dried  bread  crumbs, 
three  tablespoons  heavy  cream  or  butter,  a  few 
grains  pepper,  one-fourth  teaspoon  salt,  one-half 
teaspoon  sage,  and  one  egg  beaten  slightly.  Shape 
in  the  form  of  sausages,  dip  in  crumbs,  egg  and 
crumbs,  and  fry  in  olive  oil.  Drain,  arrange  on 
serving  dish  and  garnish  with  fried  apple  rings. 

xi  Pecan  Nut  Loaf 

1  cup  hot  boiled  rice  1  egg 

1  cup  pecan  nut  meats,  1  cup  milk 

finely  chopped  1^  teaspoons  salt 

1  cup  cracker  crumbs  %  teaspoon  pepper 

1  tablespoon  melted  butter 

Mix  rice, nut  meats, and  cracker  crumbs;  then  add 
egg  well  beaten,  milk,  salt,  and  pepper.  Turn  into  a 
buttered  small  bread  pan;  pour  over  butter,  cover 
and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  one  hour.  Turn  on  a 
hot  platter  and  pour  around  the  following  sauce: 

Cook  three  tablespoons  butter  with  two  slices  onion, 
three  minutes,  stirring  constantly.  Add  three  table- 
spoons flour  and  stir  until  well  blended;  then  pour  on 
gradually,  while  stirring  constantly,  one  and  one-half 
cups  milk.  Bring  to  the  boiling  point  and  add  one- 
half  teaspoon  salt  and  a  few  grains  pepper,  and  strain. 


PEA  ROAST  WITH  CARROT  TIMBALES. —  Page  51. 


MOCK  SAUSAGES  WITH  FRIED  APPLE  RINGS.  —  Page  52. 


BAKED  EGGS  WITH  PLMIEXTO  POTATO.  —  Page  53. 


A  GROUP  OF  DISHES  FOR  EGGS,  VEGETABLES  AND  ENTREES. 


CHAPTER  VI 
EGGS 

Baked  Eggs  with  Pimiento  Potatoes 

TO  two  cups  hot  riced  potatoes,  add  two  table- 
spoons butter,  one-third  cup  rich  milk,  and  one- 
half  teaspoon  salt.  Beat  vigorously  three  minutes, 
add  one  and  one-half  canned  pimientos,  forced 
through  a  strainer,  and  continue  the  beating  until 
mixture  is  thoroughly  blended.  Pile  evenly  on  a 
buttered  baking  dish,  and  make  four  cavities.  In 
each  cavity  slip  a  raw  egg,  and  bake  until  eggs  are 
set. 

French  Poached  Eggs 

Put  three  pints  boiling  water  in  saucepan  and 
add  one  tablespoon  vinegar,  and  one-half  table- 
spoon salt.  Stir  vigorously  around  and  around 
edge  of  saucepan  (using  a  wooden  spoon  held  in 
a  nearly  upright  position)  while  water  is  boiling 
vigorously. 

As  soon  as  well  is  formed  in  middle  of  water, 
slip  in  an  egg.  Remove  to  back  of  range  and  cook 
until  white  is  set.  Take  out  with  a  skimmer  and 
trim.  Repeat  until  the  desired  number  of  eggs  is 
prepared. 


54  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

Scrambled  Eggs,  New  York  Style 

Cover  a  thin  slice  of  ham  with  lukewarm  water 
and  let  stand  twenty-five  minutes;  then  cut  in  thin 
Julienne-shaped  pieces;  there  should  be  one  cup. 
Put  ham  in  omelet  pan,  add  two  tablespoons  finely 
chopped  onion  and  one  and  one-half  tablespoons 
butter,  and  cook  five  minutes.  Add  five  mushroom 
caps  cut  in  slices,  and  cook  five  minutes.  Arrange 
in  a  border  around  serving  dish,  fill  centre  with 
Scrambled  Eggs  (see  The  Boston  Cooking  School 
Cook  Book,  p.  98),  and  garnish  with  parsley. 

Buttered  Eggs  a  la  Roberts 

Cook  six  Buttered  Eggs  (see  The  Boston  Cooking 
School  Cook  Book,  p.  99),  arrange  on  a  hot  platter, 
pour  around  Roberts  Sauce,  and  garnish  with  parsley. 

Roberts  Sauce.  —  Melt  three-fourths  tablespoon 
butter,  add  three  shallots  finely  chopped,  and  one- 
half  tablespoon  flour,  and  cook  five  minutes.  Add 
one  tablespoon  vinegar,  one-half  cup  white  stock, 
two  chopped  pickles,  one-half  tablespoon  chopped 
capers,  one  teaspoon  chopped  olives,  one-half  tea- 
spoon French  mustard,  one-fourth  teaspoon  salt, 
and  a  few  grains  cayenne.  Cook  ten  minutes,  stir- 
ring constantly. 

•^  Eggs  a  la  Benedict,  1912  Style 

Split  and  toast  English  muffins.  Place  on  each  a 
circular  piece  of  broiled  ham,  and  over  ham  place  a 
French  poached  egg.  Pour  over  the  following  sauce : 


EGGS  55 

Melt  one  and  one-half  tablespoons  butter,  add 
one  and  one-half  tablespoons  flour,  and  stir  until  well 
blended;  then  pour  on  gradually,  while  stirring  con- 
stantly, three-fourths  cup  thin  cream.  Bring  to  the 
boiling  point  and  add  gradually  the  yolks  of  four 
eggs,  and  one-half  cup  butter.  Season  with  one-half 
teaspoon  salt,  a  few  grains  cayenne,  and  one  and 
one-half  tablespoons  Tarragon  vinegar.  Add  beef 
extract,  by  dipping  two-tined  fork  in  extract,  then 
trailing  through  sauce,  and  repeating  until  trails  of 
beef  extract  are  through  the  sauce. 

Florentine  Eggs  in  Casseroles 

Finely  chop  cooked  spinach  and  season  with  butter 
and  salt.  Put  one  tablespoon  spinach  in  each  but- 
tered individual  casserole,  sprinkle  with  one  table- 
spoon grated  Parmesan  cheese,  and  slip  into  each  an 
egg.  Cover  each  egg  with  one  tablespoon  Bechamel 
Sauce  and  one-half  tablespoon  grated  Parmesan 
cheese.  Bake  until  eggs  are  set,  and  serve  imme- 
diately. 

Deerfoot  Shirred  Eggs 

Cut  six  Deerfoot  Farm  Sausages  in  half-inch 
pieces  and  fry  in  one  teaspoon  melted  butter  six 
minutes.  Add  one  cup  tomato  sauce,  to  which  has 
been  added  one  teaspoon  finely  chopped  parsley. 
Put  mixture  in  six  buttered  shirred  egg  dishes,  crack 
two  eggs  in  each  dish  and  bake  until  eggs  are  set. 


56  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

Eggs  Molet  Chasseur 

2  shallots  M  teaspoon  salt 

1  tablespoon  butter  Few  grains  pepper 
6  mushroom  caps                             Few  grains  cayenne 

%  cup  chicken  stock  8  French  poached  eggs 

2  tablespoons  Sherry  wine  4  tablespoons  cream 

2  tablespoons  grated  Parmesan  cheese 

Finely  chop  shallots  and  cook  in  butter,  stirring 
constantly,  three  minutes.  Add  mushroom  caps, 
peeled  and  chopped,  and  cook  five  minutes;  then 
add  stock,  wine,  salt,  pepper,  and  cayenne.  Bring 
to  the  boiling  point  and  let  simmer  ten  minutes. 
Turn  into  a  shallow,  buttered  baking  dish  and  place 
on  sauce  French  poached  eggs.  Pour  over  cream, 
sprinkle  with  cheese  and  let  stand  in  oven  until 
cheese  has  melted. 

Egg  Cutlets 

2  tablespoons  butter  %  teaspoon  finely  grated 

4  tablespoons  bread  flour  onion 

1  cup  scalded  milk  1  tablespoon  finely  chopped 

1  teaspoon  salt  parsley 

Yz  teaspoon  paprika  Few  gratings  nutmeg 

8  hard-boiled  eggs 

Cream  butter,  add  flour  and  stir  until  thoroughly 
blended.  Pour  on  gradually  the  milk,  and  bring 
to  the  boiling  point.  Cook  in  double  boiler  five 
minutes  and  continue  stirring.  Cut  eggs  in  coarse 
pieces,  and  add  with  remaining  ingredients  to 
sauce,  cool  and  shape  in  the  form  of  cutlets.  Dip 
in  flour,  egg  and  crumbs,  fry  in  deep  fat  and  drain 


EGGS  57 

on  paper.  Make  a  cut  at  small  end  of  each  cutlet, 
and  insert  in  each  a  two-inch  piece  of  macaroni. 
Serve  with  White  or  Bechamel  Sauce.  The  quan- 
tities given  make  eleven  cutlets. 

Omelet  a  la  Columbia 

Cut  thinly  sliced  bacon  in  small  squares;  there 
should  be  one-half  cup.  Wash,  pare,  slice,  and  cut 
potatoes  in  fourth-inch  cubes;  there  should  be 
one  cup.  Fry  bacon  until  crisp  and  brown,  and 
drain.  To  bacon  fat  add  potatoes  and  fry  until 
delicately  browned;  then  drain  and  mix  with 
bacon  dice. 

Make  a  French  omelet;  fold  one-half  the  bacon 
and  potato  with  omelet,  turn  on  a  hot  platter  and 
surround  with  remaining  bacon  and  potato.  Garnish 
with  parsley. 

Omelette  Soubise 

Make  a  French  omelet  (see  The  Boston  Cooking 
School  Cook  Book,  p.  107),  turn  on  a  hot  copper  or 
fry-proof  platter,  pour  over  Onion  Sauce,  sprinkle 
with  two  tablespoons  Parmesan  cheese,  and  place  in 
a  hot  oven  and  bake  until  cheese  is  melted. 

Onion  Sauce.  —  Peel  and  finely  chop  one  Ber- 
muda onion  and  cook  three  minutes  with  two  table- 
spoons butter,  stirring  constantly.  Add  two  and 
one-half  tablespoons  flour  and  stir  until  well  blended; 
then  pour  on  gradually,  while  stirring  constantly, 


58  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

one  cup  milk.  Bring  to  the  boiling  point  and  let 
simmer  three  minutes;  then  add  one  egg  yolk, 
slightly  beaten  and  diluted  with  two  tablespoons 
milk. 

Japanese  Lobster  Omelet 

Cook  one  teaspoon  butter  with  one  small  onion, 
peeled  and  thinly  sliced,  five  minutes.  Add  one 
stalk  celery,  washed,  scraped,  and  thinly  sliced 
crosswise,  two  tablespoons  chicken  stock,  one-eighth 
teaspoon  sugar,  one  teaspoon  Soyou  Sauce,  and  one- 
third  cup  lobster  dice.  Butter  an  individual  omelet 
pan,  turn  in  one-half  the  mixture  add  one  egg, 
slightly  beaten,  spread  evenly,  and  cook  until  egg  is 
set.  Turn  and  fold  same  as  other  omelets;  repeat. 

Savoyarde  Omelet 

1  cup  potato  cubes  1  tablespoon  chopped  parsley 

%  tablespoon  butter  3  tablespoons  grated  cheese 

%  teaspoon  onion  juice  2  tablespoons  butter 

}4  teaspoon  salt  5  eggs 

Few  grains  pepper  %  cup  cream 

Yz  cup  boiled  leeks  }/%  teaspoon  salt 
Y%  teaspoon  pepper 

Wash  potatoes  and  boil  without  paring  until  soft. 
Cool,  pare,  and  cut  in  half-inch  cubes.  Put  potato 
cubes  with  butter,  onion  juice,  salt,  and  pepper, 
in  small  frying  pan  and  cook  until  potatoes  are 
slightly  browned.  Cut  the  white  portion  of  leeks 
in  thin  slices  crosswise,  cook  in  boiling  salted  water 
until  soft,  and  drain.  Put  two  tablespoons  butter  in 


EGGS  59 

omelet  pan  and  when  melted  pour  in  eggs,  slightly 
beaten,  to  which  have  been  added  cream,  salt,  and 
pepper.  As  mixture  cooks,  prick  and  pick  up  with 
a  fork ;  when  about  half  done  add  prepared  potatoes, 
leeks,  and  parsley,  and  continue  the  cooking  until  the 
whole  is  of  a  creamy  consistency.  Add  cheese,  place 
on  hot  part  of  range,  that  it  may  brown  quickly 
underneath;  fold  and  turn  on  a  hot  serving  dish. 
Garnish  with  sprig  of  parsley. 

Eggs  a  la  Victoria 

Cut  bread  in  third-inch  slices,  shape  with  a 
round  cutter  and  saute  in  butter  until  delicately 
browned.  On  each  round  of  bread  place  a  sauted 
chicken's  liver,  over  liver  a  French  poached  egg, 
and  pour  overfall  tomato  sauce.  Sprinkle  with  finely 
cut  chives  and  serve  at  once. 

Egg  and  Pimiento  Timbales 

Line  well-buttered  timbale  or  Dario  moulds  with 
canned  pimientos,  fill  with  egg  custard,  place  in  pan 
of  hot  water,  cover  with  buttered  paper,  and  bake 
until  firm.  Turn  on  circular  pieces  of  fried  bread 
and  serve  withJBread  Sauce. 

Egg  Custards,  Bread  Sauce 

Beat  three  eggs  slightly  and  add  three-fourths 
cup  milk.  Season  with  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  one- 
eighth  teaspoon  pepper,  a  few  grains  cayenne,  and 


60  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

a  few  drops  onion  juice;  then  strain  into  buttered 
timbale  moulds,  set  in  pan  of  hot  water  (having 
water  half  surround  mould)  and  bake  until  firm. 
Remove  to  serving  dish  and  pour  around  Bread 
Sauce.  This  recipe  makes  a  sufficient  quantity  for 
six  timbales. 

Bread  Sauce 

IK  cups  milk  Few  grains  cayenne 

}i  CUP  fine  stale  bread  ^  teaspoon  salt 

crumbs  3  tablespoons  butter 

1  onion  }/%  cup  coarse  stale  bread 
5  cloves  crumbs 

Cook  milk  twenty-five  minutes  in  double  boiler 
with  fine  bread  crumbs  and  onion  stuck  with  cloves. 
Remove  onion,  add  salt,  cayenne  and  one-half  the 
butter.  Pour  sauce  around  the  timbales  and 
sprinkle  with  the  coarse  crumbs  browned  in  re- 
maining butter. 

•-  Creamed  Eggs  with  Sardines 

4  tablespoons  butter  1^  box  sardines 

%  cup  soft,  stale  bread  crumbs  ^  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  thin  cream  J4  teaspoon  paprika 

2  hard-boiled  eggs  ^8  teaspoon  pepper 

Melt  butter,  add  bread  crumbs  and  cream,  and 
bring  to  the  boiling  point;  then  add  eggs,  finely 
chopped,  sardines  freed  from  skin  and  bones,  and 
seasonings.  Again  bring  to  the  boiling  point  and 
serve  at  once. 


EGGS  61 

Windsor  Eggs 

Arrange  four  poached  eggs  on  circular  pieces  of 
buttered  toast,  sprinkle  with  one  and  one-half  table- 
spoons sauted  chopped  mushroom  caps,  pour  around 
Windsor  Sauce  and  sprinkle  sauce  with  one-half 
teaspoon  finely  chopped  parsley,  and  one-half  tea- 
spoon finely  cut  chives. 

Windsor  Sauce.  —  Melt  three  tablespoons  butter, 
add  three  tablespoons  flour,  and  stir  until  well 
blended;  then  pour  on  gradually,  while  stirring 
constantly,  three-fourths  cup  highly  seasoned  chicken 
stock,  and  one-fourth  cup  cream.  Bring  to  the  boil- 
ing point  and  add  one-fourth  teaspoon  salt,  one- 
eighth  teaspoon  pepper,  and  the  yolk  of  one  egg, 
slightly  beaten. 

Stuffed  Eggs  in  Aspic 

Cut  six  hard-boiled  eggs  in  halves  lengthwise, 
remove  yolks  and  mash  three.  Add  to  mashed 
yolks  three  tablespoons  melted  butter,  three 
anchovies,  finely  chopped,  two  teaspoons  tarragon 
vinegar,  one  tablespoon  French  mustard,  one-half 
tablespoon  chopped  capers,  one-half  teaspoon  pap- 
rika, and  one  teaspoon  salt.  When  well  blended, 
fill  halves  of  whites  with  mixture  and  coat  with  aspic. 
Arrange  slices  of  chilled  tomatoes  on  serving  dish, 
marinate  with  French  Dressing  and  place  on  each 
a  prepared  egg  and  surround  with  chopped  aspic 
jelly  colored  light  green. 


62  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

Florentine  Eggs 

Remove  shells  from  hard-boiled  eggs.  Dip  one 
egg  in  water  colored  green,  one  in  water  colored 
violet,  and  leave  one  white.  Cut  in  halves  length- 
wise and  remove  yolks  and  some  of  the  white. 
Mash  yolks  and  add  one-fourth  cup  chopped  lobster 
or  crab  meat,  and  two  tablespoons  sauted  chopped 
mushroom  caps.  Moisten  with  any  salad  dressing 
and  refill  whites  with  mixture.  Arrange  on  a  bed 
of  watercress. 

^Jellied  French  Poached  Egg 

To  two  tablespoons,  each,  finely  chopped  carrot, 
onion,  and  celery,  two  sprigs  parsley,  one  sprig  thyme, 
two  cloves,  six  peppercorns,  and  a  bit  of  bay  leaf,  add 
one  cup  Madeira  wine;  bring  to  the  boiling  point 
and  let  simmer  five  minutes.  Strain  into  a  kettle 
and  add  one  quart  chicken  stock,  one  tablespoon  lemon 
juice,  four  tablespoons  granulated  gelatine,  whites 
three  eggs  (unbeaten),  one  teaspoon  salt,  and  a  few 
grains  cayenne.  Heat  gradually  to  the  boiling  point, 
while  stirring  constantly.  Let  boil  two  minutes, 
remove  to  back  of  range  and  let  simmer  thirty  min- 
utes; then  strain  through  a  double  thickness  of 
cheese  cloth,  placed  over  a  fine  strainer.  Put  a  layer 
in  a  group  of  individual  moulds,  and  when  mixture 
becomes  firm,  decorate  with  truffle  and  red  and  green 
pepper,  cut  in  fancy  shapes.  Place  a  cold  French 
poached  egg  in  centre  of  each,  and  gradually  fill 


WINDSOR   K<;i;s. — Page  lil.v 


JELLIED  FRENCH  POACHED  EGGS.  —  Page  62. 


BOUILLON  CUPS. 


TOASTED  TRIANGLES.  —  Page  11. 


EGGS  63 

moulds  with  jelly.  Chill  thoroughly,  remove  to 
serving  dish,  and  garnish  with  watercress.  Serve 
with 

Remoulade  Same. — To  one  cup  Mayonnaise  dress- 
ing add  one-half  tablespoon,  each,  finely  chopped 
pickles  and  capers,  and  one  teaspoon,  each,  finely 
chopped  parsley,  powdered  tarragon,  and  anchovy 
essence. 


CHAPTER  VII 
SOUPS  AND   SOUP  ACCOMPANIMENTS 

Mock  Bouillon 

2  quart  cans  tomatoes  2  cloves 

4  stalks  celery  Blade  of  mace 

8  slices  carrot  %  CUP  Sherry 

]/2  onion  sliced  ^  teaspoon  salt 

1  small  green  pepper  ^  teaspoon  pepper 

T)UT  tomatoes  in  saucepan,  and  add  celery  cut  in 
•*-  pieces,  carrot,  onion,  pepper  (from  which  seeds 
have  been  removed),  cloves,  and  mace.  Bring  to  the 
boiling  point  and  let  simmer  fifteen  minutes.  Strain, 
and  add  Sherry,  salt,  and  pepper.  Cool  and  clear. 
Serve  in  bouillon  cups. 

Vj  Corn  Mock  Bisque  Soup 

1  can  corn  }/%  can  tomatoes 

1  quart  milk  ^  teaspoon  soda 

1  slice  onion  ^  cup  butter 

3  tablespoons  flour  2  teaspoons  salt 

^  cup  cold  water  Y8  teaspoon  pepper 

}/g  teaspoon  paprika 

Scald  milk  in  double  boiler  with  corn  and  onion. 
Mix  flour  with  cold  water  to  form  a  smooth  paste 
and  add  to  scalded  milk;  then  cook  twenty  minutes, 
stirring  constantly  at  first  and  afterward  occasion- 
ally, and  rub  through  a  sieve.  Cook  tomatoes  ten 


SOUPS  AND  SOUP  ACCOMPANIMENTS          65 

minutes,  add  soda,  and  rub  through  a  sieve.  Com- 
bine mixtures  and  strain  into  a  tureen.  Add  butter 
bit  by  bit  and  seasonings. 

Berkshire  Soup 

1  onion,  finely  chopped  2  tablespoons  sugar 
%  cup  butter  1  teaspoon  salt 

Yi  bay  leaf  l/2  teaspoon  pepper 

12  peppercorns  2  cups  water 

2  tablespoons  flour  1  can  corn 

1  can  tomatoes  l/2  cup  cream 

2  egg  yolks 

Cook  onion  and  butter  five  minutes,  stirring  con- 
stantly. Add  bay  leaf,  peppercorns,  and  flour,  and 
cook  two  minutes;  then  add  tomatoes,  sugar,  salt, 
pepper,  and  boiling  water  and  simmer  twenty  min- 
utes. Add  corn,  cook  ten  minutes,  and  force  through 
a  puree  strainer.  Just  before  serving  add  egg  yolks, 
slightly  beaten,  and  diluted  with  cream. 

Celery  and  Tomato  Puree 

1  bunch  celery  Bit  of  bay  leaf 

2  teaspoons  salt  1  teaspoon  peppercorns 

3  pints  cold  water  2  sprigs  parsley 

2  tablespoons  fat  salt  pork  1   clove  garlic,  crushed 

1  onion,  sliced  3^  tablespoons  butter 

1  small  carrot,  sliced  2  tablespoons  flour 

1  leek,  sliced  1  pint  tomatoes 
%  teaspoon  thyme  1  tablespoon  sugar 

2  cloves  Salt  and  pepper. 

Break  celery  in  one-inch  pieces,  and  pound  in 
a  mortar.  Add  water  and  salt,  bring  slowly  to  the 


66  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

boiling  point,  and  let  simmer  one  hour.  Try  out  pork 
fat,  add  vegetables  and  seasonings  and  cook  ten 
minutes  stirring  constantly;  then  add  tomatoes, 
sugar  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Combine  mix- 
tures, thicken  with  two  tablespoons  flour  mixed  with 
one  and  one-half  tablespoons  butter.  Cover  and 
cook  slowly  one  hour.  Rub  through  a  sieve,  add 
remaining  butter  and  serve  at  once. 

French  Tomato  Soup 

1  quart  brown  stock  6  peppercorns 

1  can  tomatoes  1  teaspoon  salt 

1  onion,  sliced  }/%  teaspoon  pepper 

2  cloves,  garlic  %  teaspoon  soda 

4  sprigs  parsley  ^  tablespoon  sugar 

2  sprigs  thyme  2  tablespoons  butter 

Bit  of  bay  leaf  2  tablespoons  cornstarch 

1 1/2  cups  cream 

Bring  stock  and  tomatoes,  mixed  with  vegetables, 
salt,  and  pepper,  to  the  boiling  point  and  let  boil 
thirty  minutes.  Rub  through  a  sieve,  return  to  range, 
and  add  soda  and  sugar.  Melt  butter,  add  corn- 
starch,  and  when  well  blended,  pour  on  hot  soup. 
Bring  to  the  boiling  point,  and  just  before  serving 
add  cream.  Serve  with  croutons. 

Onion  Soup 

Wipe  and  make  several  gashes  through  the  meat 
of  a  six-pound  piece  cut  from  a  shin  of  beef. 
Put  in  kettle,  add  three  quarts  cold  water,  cover, 
heat  slowly  to  the  boiling  point  and  let  simmer 


SOUPS  AND  SOUP  ACCOMPANIMENTS          67 

six  hours.  Wipe,  peel,  and  thinly  slice  five  small 
onions;  put  in  a  frying  pan  and  cook  in  enough 
butter,  to  prevent  burning  (stirring  constantly) 
until  soft.  Strain  stock;  there  should  be  six  cups. 
Add  two  and  one-half  teaspoons  beef  extract,  onions, 
and  salt  to  taste.  Cut  stale  bread  in  one-third- 
inch  slices  and  remove  crusts.  Toast  on  both 
sides.  Place  in  tureen,  sprinkle  with  three  table- 
spoons grated  Parmesan  cheese  and  pour  soup  over 
bread  just  before  sending  to  table. 

Southdown  Soup 

Fore  quarter  lamb  H  tablespoon  salt 

3  quarts  cold  water  %  cup  string  beans 

1  onion  ^  cup  boiled  rice 

}/2  teaspoon  peppercorns  ^  teaspoon  celery  salt 

Wipe  lamb,  discarding  skin  and  fat,  and  cut 
lean  meat  in  small  pieces.  Put  in  kettle  with  bones 
and  add  cold  water.  Cover,  bring  gradually  to  the 
boiling  point  and  let  simmer  four  hours.  During 
the  last  hour  of  the  cooking  add  sliced  onion,  pepper- 
corns, and  salt.  Strain,  chill,  and  remove  fat.  Heat 
to  the  boiling  point  and  to  each  quart  of  the  stock  add 
beans,  cut  on  the  diagonal,  in  small  pieces,  rice, 
and  celery  salt. 

Veal  Tomato  Bisque 

3  pints  veal  stock  Y^  teaspoon  salt 

Ys  cup  tomato  puree  Few  grains  pepper 

54  cup  heavy  cream  y%  teaspoon  soda 


68  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

Mix  veal  stock,  tomato  puree,  and  cream.  Bring 
to  the  boiling  point  and  add  seasonings. 

To  obtain  tomato  puree  put  one-half  can  tomatoes 
in  saucepan,  bring  to  the  boiling  point  and  let 
simmer  until  reduced  two-thirds;  then  force  through 
a  puree  strainer. 

Chicken  Gumbo 

1  onion,  finely  chopped  2  teaspoons  salt 

4  tablespoons  butter  %  teaspoon  pepper 

1  quart  chicken  stock  ^  green  pepper,  finely 

y%  can  okra  chopped 

Cook  onion  with  butter  five  minutes,  stirring  con- 
stantly. Add  to  chicken  stock  to  which  have  been 
added  remaining  ingredients.  Bring  to  the  boiling 
point  and  let  simmer  forty  minutes. 

Pimiento  Bisque 

}/2  cup  rice  1^2  teaspoons  salt 

3  pints  chicken  stock  }/?,  teaspoon  Tabasco  Sauce 

5  canned  pimientoes  ^  cup  cream 

Yolks  2  eggs 

Cook  rice  and  stock  in  double  boiler  until  rice 
is  tender;  then  rub  through  a  sieve.  Add  pimientos, 
rubbed  through  a  sieve,  salt,  and  Tabasco  Sauce. 
Bring  to  the  boiling  point  and  add  egg  yolks  slightly 
beaten  and  diluted  with  cream. 

Clear  Mushroom  Soup 

Brush  one-half  pound  mushrooms,  finely  chop 
stems  and  break  caps  in  small  pieces.  Add  to  three 


SOUPS  AND  SOUP  ACCOMPANIMENTS          69 

pints  consomme,  bring  gradually  to  the  boiling  point 
and  let  simmer  thirty  minutes.  Cool  and  then 
clear,  using  the  whites  and  shells  of  two  eggs.  Just 
before  serving  add  Madeira  wine  to  taste. 

Cream  Chestnut  Soup 

1  cup  Italian  chestnuts  1  ^  cups  cream 

1  quart  chicken  stock  ^  teaspoon  salt 

Y%  teaspoon  paprika 

Pick  over,  wash,  and  cook  chestnuts  in  boiling 
water  two  minutes.  Drain,  gash,  cool,  and  remove 
shells.  Add  stock,  bring  to  the  boiling  point  and 
let  simmer  until  chestnuts  are  soft ;  then  rub  through 
a  sieve  and  add  remaining  ingredients. 

Potage  Longchamps 

1  can  peas  1  tablespoon  flour 

2  slices  onion  1  cup  milk 

1  y%  teaspoons  sugar  Few  sprigs  fresh  mint 

3  cups  chicken  stock  5^  teaspoon  salt 

1  tablespoon  butter  y%  teaspoon  pepper 

%  cup  cooked  vermicelli 

Drain  and  rinse  peas.  Add  onion,  sugar,  and 
chicken  stock,  bring  to  the  boiling  point  and  let 
simmer  thirty  minutes.  Melt  butter,  add  flour  and 
stir  until  well  blended;  then  pour  on  gradually, 
while  stirring  constantly,  the  hot  stock.  Again 
bring  to  the  boiling  point  and  put  through  a  puree 
strainer.  Add  milk  and,  while  soup  is  reheating,  al- 
low mint  to  remain  in  it  until  it  has  imparted  a 


70  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

• 

delicate  flavor.    Remove  mint  and  add  salt,  pepper, 
and  vermicelli. 

Nymph  Aurora 

1  quart  chicken  stock  2  tablespoons  cornstarch 

2  slices  onion  Leaf  green 

2  slices  carrot  Y%  teaspoon  salt 
Bit  of  bay  leaf  }/%  teaspoon  pepper 
Sprig  of  marjoram  2  tablespoons  lemon  juice 
Blade  mace  1  pint  shrimps 

Yz  teaspoon  peppercorns  Y^  cup  heavy  cream 

Cook  chicken  stock  with  onion,  carrot,  bay  leaf, 
marjoram,  mace,  peppercorns,  and  cornstarch  twelve 
minutes.  Strain,  color  with  leaf  green  and  season 
with  salt,  pepper,  and  lemon  juice;  then  add  shrimps 
cut  in  pieces.  Reheat,  add  cream  beaten  until 
stiff  and  serve  at  once. 

*    Cream  of  Watercress  Soup 

1  bunch  watercress  1  cup  heavy  cream 

3  cups  veal  stock  %  teaspoon  salt 
4^  tablespoons  butter  %  teaspoon  pepper 
^  cup  flour  Green  coloring 

Wash,  pick  over,  and  finely  chop  cress.  Add  to 
stock,  bring  to  the  boiling  point  and  let  simmer 
ten  minutes;  then  strain  through  a  double  thickness 
of  cheese-cloth.  Melt  butter,  add  flour  and  stir 
until  well  blended;  then  pour  on  gradually,  while 
stirring  constantly,  hot  stock.  Bring  to  the  boiling 
point.  Add  cream,  salt,  and  pepper,  and  color  deli- 
cately, using  leaf  green.  Serve  with  Toasted  Tri- 
angles (see  p.  77). 


SOUPS  AND  SOUP  ACCOMPANIMENTS          71 

Chicken  and  Oyster  Consomme 

1  pint  oysters  1  teaspoon  salt 

Yz  cup  cold  water  Few  grains  cayenne 

4  cups  chicken  stock  3^  CUP  cream 

Finely  chop  oysters  (reserving  the  soft  portion  of 
twelve),  add  cold  water  and  let  simmer  twenty- 
five  minutes.  Strain  oyster  liquor  through  a  double 
thickness  of  cheese-cloth,  placed  over  fine  wire 
strainer,  and  add  to  chicken  stock.  Season  with  salt 
and  pepper  and  add  cream  and  the  soft  parts  of 
oysters,  cooked  until  plump.  Reheat  and  serve  at 
once. 

Filippini  Consomme 

2  cups  consomme*  3  tablespoons  Sherry  wine 

1  cup  brown  stock  3^  teaspoon  salt 

4  tablespoons  pimiento  Few  grains  cayenne 

pure*e 

Mix  ingredients  and  clear,  using  the  white  and 
shell  of  one  egg.  To  obtain  pimiento  puree,  drain 
canned  pimientoes  and  force  through  a  puree  strainer. 

Consomme  Dubarry 

5  pounds  veal,  cut  from         Bit  of  bay  leaf 

fore  quarter  J/2  teaspoon  peppercorns 

2  ox-tails  1  tablespoon  salt 

3  quarts  cold  water  1  ^  tablespoons  butter 
H  cup  carrot,  cut  in  small  Y2  green  pepper 

pieces  Flowerets  cooked  cauliflower 

Yz  cup  celery,  cut  in  small  ^  cup  hot  boiled  rice 

pieces  1  tablespoon  shredded, 
1  onion  sliced  blanched  Jordan  almonds 

3  sprigs  thyme  Royal  custard 


72  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

Wipe  veal,  remove  meat,  cut  in  small  pieces  and 
put  with  bones  in  soup  kettle.  Add  ox-tails,  wiped 
and  cut  in  pieces,  and  pour  over  cold  water.  Heat 
gradually  to  the  boiling  point,  skim,  cover,  and  let 
simmer  four  hours.  Cook  carrot,  celery,  onion, 
thyme,  bay  leaf,  and  peppercorns  with  butter  ten 
minutes,  stirring  constantly.  Add  to  soup  and  let 
simmer  two  hours;  then  add  green  pepper  cut  in 
strips  and  cook  fifteen  minutes.  Strain,  cool,  and 
remove  fat.  Reheat  and  add  remaining  ingredients. 

A  consomme  that  does  not  require  clearing. 

Consomme  Montmorency 

4-pound  fowl  8  slices  carrot 

3  pounds  knuckle  of  veal  2  sprigs  parsley 

3  quarts  cold  water  2  sprigs  thyme 

1  sliced  onion  3/£  teaspoon  peppercorns 

2  stalks  celery  2  tablespoons  butter 

Dress  and  clean  fowl,  put  in  a  soup  kettle  and  add 
veal  cut  in  small  pieces.  Pour  over  water  and  add 
remaining  ingredients,  which  have  been  cooked  in 
butter  eight  minutes.  Bring  to  the  boiling  point 
and  let  simmer  until  fowl  is  tender.  Remove  fowl 
and  let  stock  boil  one  and  one-half  hours.  Strain, 
cool,  remove  fat,  and  clear,  allowing  the  white  and 
shell  of  one  egg  and  one  cup  uncooked  beet  to  each 
quart.  Garnish  with  one-fourth  cup  cooked  green 
peas,  one-fourth  cup  Julienne-shaped  pieces  of  the 
white  meat  of  cooked  chicken,  and  one-fourth  cup 
cooked  pearl  tapioca. 


SOUPS  AND  SOUP  ACCOMPANIMENTS          73 

Iced  Pimiento  Consomme 

Remove  fat  from  one  quart  consomme,  and  clear, 
using  the  white  of  one  egg  and  two  pounded  canned 
pimientos.  Chill  thoroughly  and  serve  very  cold 
in  bouillon  cups. 

Consomme  Tillyprone 

8  Ibs.  shin  of  beef  2  sprigs  parsley 

4  Ibs.  knuckle  of  veal  2  sprigs  marjoram 

2  ozs.  lean  raw  ham  3  sprigs  thyme 

4  quarts  cold  water  %  teaspoon  peppercorns 

2  onions,  sliced  4  cloves 

1  small  carrot  2  allspice  berries 

^  teaspoon  celery  seed  1  inch  piece  stick  cinnamon 

Small  bay  leaf  1  tablespoon  salt 

Blade  of  mace  1  egg 

%  cup  Brussels  sprouts 

Wipe  beef  and  veal,  remove  lean  meat  from  bones 
and  cut  in  small  pieces.  Put  in  hot  iron  frying  pan 
with  ham  and  brown  (turning  frequently),  using  just 
enough  butter  to  keep  meat  from  burning.  Remove 
to  back  of  range,  cover  and  cook  one  hour,  turning 
occasionally.  Put  in  soup  kettle,  add  water,  season- 
ings and  bones  sawed  in  pieces.  Bring  quickly  to  boil- 
ing point,  skim,  simmer  six  hours  and  strain  through 
cheese-cloth  placed  over  a  fine  wire  strainer,  when  fur- 
ther clearing  will  not  be  necessary.  Let  stand  twenty- 
four  hours.  Reheat  and  garnish  with  egg,  slightly 
beaten,  run  through  a  strainer  and  cooked  in  soup. 

Wash,  pick  over  and  slice  Brussels  sprouts  crosswise 
and  cook  in  boiling  salted  water,  to  which  are  added 
a  few  grains  soda,  until  soft;  drain  and  add  to  soup. 


74  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

Consomme  Japonnaise 

3  pounds  lean  beef  10  peppercorns 

3  pounds  shin  of  beef  2  cloves 
Carcass  of  roast  chicken  5  allspice  berries 

1  sliced  carrot  %  teaspoon  thyme 

1  sliced  onion  1  quart  cold  water 

1  clove  garlic  \Y2  quarts  boiling  water 

1  stalk  celery  Salt 

1  sprig  parsley  Pepper 

Wipe  meat,  cut  in  small  pieces,  and  put  in 
a  soup  kettle.  Add  remaining  ingredients  ex- 
cept boiling  water,  salt,  and  pepper,  cover 
and  let  stand  on  back  of  range  one  and  one- 
half  hours.  Bring  to  the  boiling  point  and  let 
boil  five  minutes,  stirring  constantly.  Add  boil- 
ing water  and  let  simmer  one  and  one-half 
hours.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  strain 
through  a  piece  of  cheese-cloth  placed  over  a 
fine  strainer. 

Mock  Turtle  Soup 

1  calf's  head  Yi  teaspoon  peppercorns 

4  Ibs.  knuckle  of  veal  ^  teaspoon  celery  seed 
1  Ib.  marrow  bone                    4  allspice  limes 

4  quarts  cold  water  2  blades  mace 

1  small  sliced  carrot  ^  tablespoon  salt 

2  sliced  onions  1*^  tablespoons  butter 

3  sprigs  thyme  1 Y^  tablespoons  flour 

2  sprigs  marjoram  1  ^  tablespoons  lemon  juice 

Bit  of  bay  leaf  ^/i  cup  Sherry  wine 

%  teaspoon  clove  Salt  and  pepper 

Clean  and  wash  calf's  head,  put  in  kettle  with 
veal  and  marrow  bone;  add  cold  water,  cover,  bring 


SOUPS  AND  SOUP  ACCOMPANIMENTS          75 

slowly  to  boiling  point  and  let  simmer  until  meat 
leaves  bone.  Cut  face  meat  in  one-half  inch  cubes  — 
there  should  be  one  cup  —  and  set  aside  with  brains 
to  use  as  garnish.  Put  tongue,  remaining  calf's  head 
meat  and  veal  through  meat  chopper.  Return  to 
kettle  containing  stock  and  add  vegetables  and  sea- 
sonings and  let  simmer  two  hours.  Strain,  cool,  re- 
move fat,  reheat  and  add  butter  and  flour  browned 
together.  Add  meat,  lemon  juice,  Sherry  and  salt 
and  pepper  to  taste.  Then  add  egg  balls. 

Egg  Balk.  —  Mash  yolks  of  three  hard-boiled 
eggs  and  add  an  equal  measure  of  mashed  calf's 
brains.  Season  highly  with  salt  and  pepper  and  add 
enough  slightly  beaten  egg  to  hold  mixture  so  that 
it  may  be  shaped  into  small  balls.  Roll  balls  in 
flour  and  saute  in  butter. 

Bisque  of  Oysters,  Capucine 

1  quart  oysters  ^  cup  rice 

1  y?,  quarts  water  2  cups  milk 

2  stalks  celery  2  teaspoons  salt 

2  leeks  %  teaspoon  pepper 

2  slices  onion  y%  teaspoon  cayenne 

2  sprigs  parsley  y%  teaspoon  nutmeg 

2  cloves  2  egg  yolks 

K  bay  leaf  1  cup  cream 

1  cup  canned  peas 

Parboil  oysters  in  their  own  liquor.  Strain,  re- 
serve liquor,  and  finely  chop  the  oysters.  To  liquor 
add  water,  celery,  leeks,  onion,  parsley,  cloves,  bay 
leaf,  chopped  oysters,  rice,  and  milk.  Bring  to  the 


76  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

boiling  point  and  let  simmer  one  and  one-quarter 
hours.  Press  through  a  sieve  and  add  remaining 
seasonings;  then  egg  yolks  diluted  with  cream,  and 
when  boiling  point  is  again  reached,  peas. 


Manhattan  Clam  Bisque 


2  quarts  clams  in  shells  3^  tablespoons  flour 
Yi  cup  cold  water  %  teaspoon  salt 
Hot  water                                           Few  grains  paprika 

3  tablespoons  butter  1  cup  cream 

/ 

Wash  clams  thoroughly,  put  in  T  ettle,  add  cold 
water,  cover,  and  cook  until  shells  are  partially 
opened.  Strain  liquor  through  double  thickness  of 
cheese-cloth,  and  add  enough  hot  water  to  make  one 
quart  liquid.  Brown  butter,  add  flour  and  continue 
the  browning;  then  pour  on  gradually  the  liquid. 
Bring  to  the  boiling  point  and  let  simmer  twenty 
minutes.  Add  seasonings  and  cream.  Serve  in  bouil- 
lon cups  with 

,  Pimiento  Cream. — Beat  one-half  cup  heavy  cream 
until  stiff.  Add  the  beaten  white  of  one-half  egg, 
two  tablespoons  pimiento  puree  and  a  few  grains 
salt.  To  obtain  pimiento  puree  drain  canned 
pimientoes,  dry  on  a  towel  and  force  through  a 
sieve. 

Corinthian  Clam  Bisque 

2  dozen  soft-shelled  crabs  2  clams 

%  cup  water  Blade  mace 

1  sliced  onion  2  tablespoons  cornstarch 

Sprig  parsley  2  tablespoons  cold  water 

Salt  and  pepper  1  quart  milk 


MOCK  CASSAVA  BUKAD  IN  THE  MAKING.  —  I'aye  77. 


MOCK  CASSAVA  BREAD. — Page  77. 


PULLED  BREAD.  —  Page  78. 


HOMINY  CROUTONS.  —  Page  78. 


SOUPS  AND  SOUP  ACCOMPANIMENTS          77 

Wash  clams,  put  in  kettle,  add  water,  cover,  bring 
to  the  boiling  point,  and  cook  until  shells  open.  Re- 
move clams  from  shells,  chop  finely  and  add  to  liquor; 
then  add  onion,  parsley,  clams,  and  mace  and  let 
simmer  thirty  minutes.  Scald  milk  and  thicken 
with  cornstarch  diluted  with  cold  water.  Cook  ten 
minutes  and  add  clam  water,  strained  through  a 
double  thickening  of  cheese-cloth.  Season  with 
salt  and  pepper,  and  serve  in  bouillon  cups  with 
whipped  cream. 

SOUP   ACCOMPANIMENTS 
Toasted  Triangles 

Cut  stale  bread  in  one-eighth-inch  slices  and 
remove  crusts ;  then  cut  in  halves  on  the  di- 
agonal, making  triangles.  Toast  under  a  gas  flame 
or  bake  in  a  slow  oven  until  crisp  and  delicately 
browned. 

Mock  Cassava  Bread 

Remove  crusts  from  a  small,  stale  baker's  loaf  in 
four  pieces,  using  a  sharp,  long-bladed  knife;  then 
cut  in  very  thin  slices  lengthwise  and  shape  with  an 
elliptical  cutter.  Dip  each  piece  separately  quickly 
in  and  out  of  cold  water  and  shape  over  a  form 
(using  one-half-pound  baking  powder  tins)  and 
keep  in  place  with  soft  twine.  Place  in  dripping 
pan,  brush  over  with  melted  butter  and  bake  in  a 
slow  oven  until  crisp  and  delicately  browned,  turning 


78  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

frequently.     Serve  as  an  accompaniment  to  soup 
or  five  o'clock  tea. 

Pulled  Bread 

Cut  off  ends  and  remove  crusts  from  a  baker's 
French  loaf;  then  cut  in  halves,  crosswise.  Pull 
apart  into  strips,  using  two  three-tined  forks.  Put 
in  dripping  pan  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven  until  crisp 
and  delicately  browned. 

Hominy  Croutons 

Pack  hominy  mush  in  buttered  one-fourth-pound 
baking  powder  box.  When  cold,  remove  from  box, 
cut  in  one-fourth-inch  slices  and  slices  in  one-fourth- 
inch  cubes.  Dip  in  fine  crumbs,  egg,  and  crumbs,  and 
fry  in  deep  fat. 

Tapioca  Garnish  for  Consomme 

Soak  one-fourth  cup  pearl  tapioca  over  night  in 
cold  water  to  cover.  Drain  and  cook  in  boiling  salted 
water  until  transparent.  Again  drain  and  add  to 
soup. 


CHAPTER   VIII 

FISH 
WAYS  OF   COOKING   SHELLFISH 

Sherry  Oyster  Cocktail 

ALLOW  six  small  oysters  to  each  cocktail  and 
pour  over  a  dressing  made  of  Sherry  wine,  salt, 
and  cayenne,  allowing  two  tablespoons  wine  and  a 
few  grains,  each,  salt  and  cayenne,  to  each  cocktail. 
Let  oysters  stand  in  sauce  in  a  cold  place  fifteen 
minutes  before  serving  time. 

Mayonnaise  of  Oysters 

Clean  selected  oysters;  put  in  omelet  pan  and  par- 
boil in  their  own  liquor.  Remove  tough  muscles  and 
discard.  Marinate  soft  portions  with  French  Dress- 
ing and  let  stand  in  ice  box  until  thoroughly  chilled. 
Arrange  for  individual  service  on  small,  crisp  lettuce 
leaves  (placed  on  small  plates),  allowing  three  pieces 
of  oyster  for  each  portion.  Garnish  with  Mayon- 
naise Dressing  forced  through  pastry  bag  and  tube 
and  serve  at  once  as  a  first  course  at  dinner. 

Norfolk  Oysters 

1  y%  cups  hot  boiled  rice  Butter 

1  pint  oysters  Salt 

1  cup  white  sauce  Pepper 

1  cup  buttered  cracker  crumbs 


80  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

Cover  bottom  of  buttered  baking  dish  with  one- 
half  the  rice,  cover  rice  with  one-half  the  oysters, 
pour  over  one-half  the  sauce,  dot  over  with  butter 
and  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper;  repeat,  using 
remaining  ingredients.  Cover  with  crumbs,  and 
bake  in  a  hot  oven  thirty  minutes. 

Oysters  Louisiana 

Clean  and  parboil  one  quart  oysters,  reserve 
liquor,  and  add  enough  water  to  make  one  and  one- 
half  cups.  Cook  three  tablespoons  butter  with  two 
tablespoons  chopped  red  pepper  and  one-half  table- 
spoon finely  chopped  shallot,  five  minutes.  Add  four 
tablespoons  flour  and  stir  until  well  blended;  then  pour 
on  gradually,  while  stirring  constantly,  oyster  liquor. 
Bring  to  the  boiling  point  and  season  with  one-half  tea- 
spoon salt,  one-eighth  teaspoon  paprika,  few  grains 
cayenne,  and  one  tablespoon  Sauterne  wine.  Arrange 
oysters  in  large  buttered  scalloped  shells,  pour  over 
sauce,  sprinkle  with  grated  Parmesan  cheese,  and  pipe 
around  edge  of  shells  a  border  of  Duchess  potatoes. 
Arrange  in  pan  and  bake  until  thoroughly  reheated. 

Devilled  Oysters  on  Half  Shells 

1  pint  oysters  Few  grains  cayenne 

1  tablespoon  butter  1A  teaspoon  made  mustard 

3  shallots,  finely  chopped     ^  tablespoon  Worcestershire 

2  tablespoons  flour  Sauce 

Y<i  cup  milk  3  chopped  mushroom  caps 

%  cup  cream  ^  teaspoon  chopped  parsley 

Yz  teaspoon  salt  1  egg  yolk 

}/8  teaspoon  nutmeg  Buttered  cracker  crumbs 


FISH  81 

Wash  and  chop  oysters.  Cook  shallots  in  butter 
three  minutes,  add  flour  and  stir  until  well  blended; 
then  add  milk  and  cream.  Bring  to  the  boiling  point 
and  add  oysters  and  remaining  ingredients,  except 
egg  yolk  and  crumbs,  and  let  simmer  twelve  minutes. 
Add  egg  yolk,  put  mixture  in  deep  halves  of  oyster 
shells,  cover  with  buttered  crumbs,  and  bake  fifteen 
minutes. 

Scallop  Cocktail  I 

Clean  scallops,  put  in  saucepan  and  cook  until 
they  begin  to  shrivel.  Drain,  chill  and  put  in  small 
fluted  shells,  allowing  five  for  each  shell.  Arrange 
two  shells  on  each  plate  of  finely  crushed  ice,  placing 
between  shells  a  small  glass  containing  cocktail  dress- 
ing, same  as  used  for  Oyster  Cocktail  I  (see  The 
Boston  Cooking  School  Cook  Book,  p.  180). 

Scallop  Cocktail  II 

1  teaspoon  salt  ]/%  teaspoon  dry  mustard 

J4  teaspoon  pepper  2  tablespoons  vinegar 

1  teaspoon  chopped  parsley  8  tablespoons  Tomato 
1  teaspoon  chives,  finely  cut  Catsup 

l/2  teaspoon  chopped  shallot  1  teaspoon  grated  horse- 
3/6  teaspoon  olive  oil  radish  root 

10  drops  Tabasco  Sauce  1  pint  scallops 
13^  teaspoons  Worcester- 
shire Sauce 

Mix  ingredients,  except  scallops.  Cook  scallops 
five  minutes,  drain,  chill  thoroughly,  and  cut  in  halves. 
Add  to  sauce  and  serve  in  cocktail  glasses.  This 
recipe  makes  six  cocktails. 


82  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

Savoy  Scallops 

1  quart  scallops  3  tablespoons  flour 

Fish  stock  H  cup  Mayonnaise  Dressing 

3  tablespoons  butter  }/%  teaspoon  thyme 

Parboil  scallops,  drain,  and  cut  in  quarters.  To 
scallop  liquor  add  enough  fish  stock  to  make  one  and 
one-third  cups.  Melt  butter,  add  flour  and  stir 
until  well  blended;  then  pour  on  gradually,  while 
stirring  constantly,  fish  liquor.  When  boiling  point 
is  reached  remove  to  back  of  range  and  add  gradu- 
ally Mayonnaise  Dressing;  then  scallops  and  thyme. 
Keep  hot  in  chafing  dish,  but  do  not  allow  mixture 
to  boil.  For  the  thyme  remove  the  tiny  leaves  from 
sprigs  of  dried  thyme. 

Samoset  Scallops 

1  pint  scallops  Few  grains  salt 

1  tablespoon  butter  1  cup  finely  cut,  soft  mild 
1  tablespoon  flour  cheese 

Y<L  cup  thin  cream  1  egg 

%  cup  stewed  and  strained  Salt 

tomatoes  Mustard 
Cayenne 

Parboil  scallops,  drain  and  cut  in  quarters.  Melt 
butter,  add  flour  and  stir  until  well  blended;  then 
pour  on  gradually,  while  stirring  constantly,  cream. 
Bring  to  the  boiling  point  and  add  tomatoes  mixed 
with  soda.  Again  bring  to  the  boiling  point,  add 
cheese  and,  as  soon  as  cheese  has  melted,  egg  slightly 
beaten,  scallops,  and  seasoning.  Serve  on  squares  of 
toasted  bread. 


FISH  83 

Scalloped  Scallops 

1  pint  scallops  Y^  cup  soft  bread  crumbs 

y<L  cup  butter  %  cup  cream 

1  cup  cracker  crumbs  Salt 

Pepper 

Wash  and  pick  over  scallops.  Melt  butter  and  add 
cracker  and  bread  crumbs.  Put  a  layer  of  crumbs 
in  buttered  dish,  cover  with  scallops,  add  one-half 
the  cream  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper;  repeat, 
cover  with  buttered  crumbs  and  bake  until  crumbs 
are  brown,  the  time  required  being  about  twenty- 
five  minutes. 

Scallops  Bresloise 

1  pint  scallops  3  tablespoons  fresh  bread 

%  cup  water  crumbs 

}/2  cup  white  wine  ^  clove  garlic,  finely 

l/2  teaspoon  salt  chopped 

^s  teaspoon  pepper  1  teaspoon  chopped  parsley 

1  small  white  onion  1  egg  yolk 

2  tablespoons  butter '  %  cup  buttered  bread 
1  tablespoon  flour  crumbs 

Cook  scallops  in  water  and  wine,  to  which  salt  and 
pepper  have  been  added,  five  minutes;  drain  and 
chop.  Chop  onion  and  cook  with  butter  five  min- 
utes, stirring  constantly;  add  flour  and  stir  until 
well  blended;  then  pour  on  gradually,  while  stirring 
constantly,  liquor  drained  from  scallops.  Bring  to  the 
boiling  point  and  add  scallops  and  remaining  ingre- 
dients, except  buttered  bread  crumbs.  Fill  buttered 
shells  with  mixture,  sprinkle  with  buttered  crumbs, 
arrange  in  pan,  and  bake  until  crumbs  are  brown. 


84  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

Fried  Scallops  a  la  Huntington 

Clean  one  quart  scallops  and  pour  over  the  juice 
of  one  lemon,  one  tablespoon  olive  oil,  one-half 
teaspoon  finely  chopped  parsley,  one  teaspoon  salt, 
and  one-half  teaspoon  pepper.  Cover,  let  stand  thirty 
minutes,  and  drain.  Mix  three  tablespoons  chopped 
cooked  ham,  four  tablespoons  soft,  stale  bread 
crumbs,  two  tablespoons  grated  Parmesan  cheese, 
and  one  teaspoon  chives,  finely  cut.  Dip  scallops 
in  egg,  roll  in  mixture,  fry  in  deep  fat  and  drain 
on  brown  paper.  Sprinkle  with  salt,  remove  to  hot 
platter,  and  garnish  with  parsley. 

How  to  Boil  Lobsters 

Have  ready  a  large  kettle  containing  vigorously 
boiling  water,  adding  one  tablespoon  salt  to  each 
quart  of  water.  Put  in  live  lobsters,  tail  end 
down,  one  at  a  time,  having  the  water  come  to  the 
boiling  point  between  each  addition.  Lobsters 
should  be  entirely  covered  by  water.  Cover  and 
let  boil  twenty  minutes. 

Spanish  Lobster  in  Casseroles 

Remove  meat  from  a  two-pound  lobster  and  cut 
in  small  pieces.  Put  body  bones  and  claw  meat  in  a 
stewpan,  cover  with  two  and  one-half  cups  cold  water 
and  add  one  slice,  each,  carrot  and  onion,  sprig  of 
parsley,  and  stalk  of  celery.  Bring  to  the  boiling 
point  and  let  boil  until  reduced  to  one  and  one-half 


SCALLOP  COCKTAIL. — Page  81. 


SARDINE  COCKTAIL.  —  Page '372. 


_JL_;.  _......__,_ _ _.__ 

BROILED  POMPANO,  CUCUMBER  HOLLAND AISE. — Page  88. 


... 


SHATTUCK  HALIBUT. — Page  89. 


FISH  85 

cups;  then  strain.  Melt  four  tablespoons  butter, 
add  four  tablespoons  flour  and  stir  until  well  blended ; 
then  pour  on  gradually  lobster  stock.  Bring  to  the 
boiling  point  and  add  one-half  cup  heavy  cream, 
yolks  two  eggs,  slightly  beaten,  and  lobster  dice. 
Season  with  one  tablespoon  lemon  juice,  one-half 
teaspoon  salt,  one-fourth  teaspoon  paprika,  and  one- 
eighth  teaspoon  pepper.  Put  one  tablespoon  boiled 
rice  in  each  buttered  individual  casserole,  fill  with 
lobster  mixture,  and  on  top  place  a  small  slice  broiled 
tomato,  brushed  over  with  melted  butter  and  sea- 
soned with  salt  and  pepper. . 

Planked  Live  Lobster 

Split  a  one  and  one-half  pound  live  lobster  (see 
The  Boston  Cooking-School  Cook  Book,  p.  189),  put 
in  dripping  pan,  brush  shell  over  with  olive  oil  or 
melted  butter  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  fifteen  minutes. 
Remove  to  plank  and  garnish  with  Julienne  potatoes, 
slices  of  peeled  and  chilled  tomatoes,  overlapping  one 
another,  slices  of  cucumber  and  parsley.  Pour  over 
lobster  melted  butter,  seasoned  with  salt,  pepper 
and  lemon  juice. 

Planked  Live  Lobster  with  Oysters 

Split  and  bake  a  lobster,  same  as  for  Planked  Live 
Lobster,  cooking  only  twelve  minutes.  Clean  and 
pick  over  one  cup  oysters,  put  over  tail  and  body 
meat  of  lobster,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper  and 


86  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

dot  over  generously  with  butter.  Put  in  oven  and 
bake  until  oysters  are  plump  and  edges  curl.  Gar- 
nish with  Saratoga  Chips  (see  The  Boston  Cooking 
School  Cook  Book,  p.  314)  and  sprigs  of  parsley. 

Crab  Meat  Urzini 

3  tablespoons  butter  %  teaspoon  salt 

3  tablespoons  flour  }/%  pound  crab  meat 

Y±  cup  milk  34  pound  mushroom  caps 

%  cup  cream  1  canned  pimiento 

Melt  butter,  add  flour  and  stir  until  well  blended ; 
then  pour  on  gradually,  while  stirring  constantly, 
milk  and  cream.  Bring  to  the  boiling  point,  season 
with  salt  and  add  crab  meat,  mushroom  caps 
(sliced  and  sauted  in  butter),  and  pimiento  (cut  in 
long,  thin  strips).  Use  as  a  filling  for  patties,  vol-au- 
vent,  or  Swedish  timbales. 

Crab  Meat  Mornay 

43^  tablespoons  butter  %  cup  chicken  stock 

3  tablespoons  flour  %  cup  milk 

23/£  tablespoons  cornstarch  Yolks  2  eggs 

%  teaspoon  salt  1  34  cups  crab  meat 

3/2  cup  grated  Young  America  cheese 

Melt  butter,  add  flour,  cornstarch,  and  salt,  and 
stir  until  well  blended;  then  pour  on  gradually, 
while  stirring  constantly,  chicken  stock;  bring  to 
the  boiling  point  and  let  boil  three  minutes.  Add 
milk  gradually,  again  bring  to  the  boiling  point  and 
add  egg  yolks,  slightly  beaten.  Butter  eight  individ- 
ual casseroles,  cover  bottoms  with  crab  meat,  cover 


FISH  87 

meat  with  sauce,  and  sprinkle  with  cheese.     Run 
under  gas  flame  to  melt  cheese,  and  brown. 

Crabs  Ravigote 

1  pound  fresh  crab  meat  }/%  teaspoon  finely  chopped 

1  teaspoon  salt  parsley 

%  teaspoon  cayenne  1  hard  boiled  egg,  finely 

1  teaspoon  made  mustard  chopped 

1  tablespoon  oliv  e  oil  3  tablespoons  vinegar 

Season  crab  meat  with  remaining  ingredients, 
mix  thoroughly  and  arrange  in  six  scallop  shells, 
spread  evenly  with  Ravigote  Mayonnaise  (see  The 
Boston  Cooking-School  Cook  Book,  p.  344)  and  gar- 
nish with  fillets  of  anchovies,  arranged  lattice 
fashion. 

WAYS  OF   COOKING   OTHER  FISH 
Fisherman's  Haddock 

Remove  head  and  tail  from  a  four-pound  haddock, 
split  and  wipe  with  a  piece  of  cheese-cloth  wrung 
out  of  cold  water.  Sprinkle  inside  with  one  cup  salt, 
cover  and  let  stand  over  night.  In  the  morning  re- 
move salt,  rinse  thoroughly,  tie  in  cheese-cloth, 
and  cook  in  boiling  water  until  tender.  Drain 
thoroughly,  and  remove  from  cheese-cloth  to  hot 
platter.  Garnish  with  steamed  potatoes  of  uniform 
size  and  boiled  beets  (cut  in  slices  and  slices  cut  in 
fancy  shapes;  then  seasoned  with  butter  and  salt), 
alternating  vegetables.  Cut  four  one-fourth-inch 
slices  fat  salt  pork  in  small  cubes  and  try  out.  Serve 


88  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

fish  with  pork  scraps,  pork  fat,  and  two  cups  white 
sauce. 

Broiled  Pompano,  Cucumber  Hollandaise 

Order  fish  dressed  for  broiling;  wipe,  sprinkle 
with  salt  and  pepper,  and  place  in  a  greased  broiler. 
Broil  flesh  side  until  well  seared,  brush  flesh  side 
sparingly  with  olive  oil  or  melted  butter  and  con- 
tinue broiling  on  flesh  side  until  fish  begins  to  brown, 
again  brush  over  with  butter  or  oil  and  continue 
broiling  on  flesh  side  until  well  browned.  Turn 
and  broil  skin  side  until  fish  is  done.  Remove  to 
heated  platter,  pour  over  Cucumber  Hollandaise 
(see  p.  157)  and  garnish  at  one  end  of  platter  with 
ten  thin  slices  of  lemon  (from  which  seeds  have  been 
removed)  and  ten  thin  slices  of  round  radishes, 
alternating  and  overlapping  them.  In  middle  of 
garnish  thus  arranged,  place  a  sprig  of  parsley. 

Baked  Halibut,  Swedish  Style 

1  pound  slice  halibut  %  cup  canned  tomatoes 

Salt  3^  teaspoon  powdered  sugar 

Pepper  }/%  onion 

Melted  butter  %  cup  heavy  cream 

Wipe  halibut  and  remove  skin.  Place  in  an  earthen 
baking  dish,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper  and 
brush  over  with  melted  butter.  Drain  tomatoes  and 
add  sugar.  Spread  over  fish,  then  cover  with 
onion,  thinly  sliced.  Bake  twenty  minutes,  pour 
over  cream  and  bake  ten  minutes.  Remove  onion 
and  serve  at  once,  from  dish  in  .which  it  was  cooked. 


FISH  89 

Shattuck  Halibut 

Wipe  a  one  and  one-half  pound  slice  chicken  hali- 
but with  a  piece  of  cheese-cloth,  wrung  out  of  cold 
water.  Put  in  a  buttered  copper  platter  or  dripping 
pan,  and  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper.  Arrange 
on  top  five  three-fourth-inch  slices  cut  from  medi- 
um-sized tomatoes,  which  have  been  peeled;  then 
sprinkle  with  Julienne-shaped  pieces  cut  from  a 
green  pepper.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven  twenty-five 
minutes,  basting  four  times,  using  one-third  cup 
melted  butter  and  after  that  is  gone,  liquor  in  platter. 

Halibut  a  la  Suisse 

Wipe  a  two-pound  piece  of  halibut  with  cheese- 
cloth, wrung  out  of  cold  water.  Put  in  baking  pan  of 
correct  size,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper  and  put 
on  top  one-half  cup  butter.  Bake  fifteen  min- 
utes, basting  twice;  then  cover  with  one-fourth 
pound  mushrooms,  broken  in  pieces,  and  pour  over 
one  cup  cream.  .Again  bake  fifteen  minutes,  add  one 
teaspoon  beef  extract  and  bake  ten  minutes,  bast- 
ing twice.  Remove  to  hot  serving  dish,  pour  around 
sauce  remaining  in  pan,  and  garnish  writh  parsley. 

Halibut  Veronique 

Wipe  two  three-fourth-pound  slices  chicken  hali- 
but and  cut  into  eight  fillets.  Sprinkle  with  salt 
and  pepper,  brush  over  with  lemon  juice,  and  put 
a  thin  slice  of  onion  on  each.  Cover,  and  let  stand 


90  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

two  hours.  Remove  onion,  place  fillets  in  buttered 
pan  of  correct  size  and  pour  over  the  following  sauce : 

Melt  three  tablespoons  butter,  add  three  table- 
spoons flour  and  stir  until  well  blended;  then  pour 
on  gradually,  while  stirring  constantly,  two-thirds 
cup  fish  stock,  and  one-half  cup  cream.  The  fish 
stock  used  is  made  from  bones,  skin,  and  trimmings 
of  fish. 

Cover  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  five  minutes.  Trans- 
fer fish  to  a  copper  platter. 

Remove  skin  and  seeds  from  three-fourths  cup 
Malaga  grapes,  pour  over  three  tablespoons  Tokay 
wine,  cover,  and  let  stand  thirty  minutes.  Drain, 
add  to  sauce  which  has  been  strained,  seasoned  with 
salt,  and  cooked  five  minutes;  then  add  two  tea- 
spoons wine  in  which  grapes  have  soaked  and  pour 
over  fish. 

Serve  in  copper  platter. 

Halibut  Loomis 

2  1-pound  slices  chicken  Bit  of  bay  leaf 

halibut  Yz  cup  white  wine 

1  onion  1  tablespoon  vinegar 

2  sprigs  parsley  %  teaspoon  salt 

1  sprig  thyme  ^8  teaspoon  pepper 

2  cloves  Cold  water 

Slice  onion  and  add  parsley,  thyme,  cloves,  and 
bay  leaf.  Put  in  pan,  lay  fish  over  vegetables, 
sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  add  wine,  vinegar, 
and  cold  water  to  cover.  Cover  and  let  stand  two 
hours.  Place  on  range,  bring  to  boiling  point  and 


FISH  91 

let  boil  fifteen  minutes.  Remove  to  hot  platter  and 
pour  over  the  following  sauce :  Melt  two  tablespoons 
butter,  add  three  tablespoons  flour  and  stir  until  well 
blended;  then  pour  on  gradually,  while  stirring 
constantly,  one-half  cup  milk,  and  one-third  cup 
liquor,  in  which  fish  was  cooked.  Bring  to  the  boil- 
ing point  and  add  two  tablespoons  grated  cheese, 
cne-fourth  teaspoon  salt,  few  grains  pepper,  and  the 
yolk  of  one  egg,  slightly  beaten.  Dot  over  with  one 
tablespoon  butter,  place  in  a  hot  oven  and  bake  until 
well  browned.  Sprinkle  with  one-half  tablespoon 
finely  chopped  parsley  and  serve  at  once. 

Fillets  of  Halibut  a  la  Hollanden 

2  %-pound  slices  halibut  3  tablespoons  butter 

6  thin  slices  fat  salt  pork  3  tablespoons  flour 

1  sliced  onion  %  cup  buttered  cracker 
}/2  bay  leaf  crumbs 

Wipe  fish  and  cut  into  eight  fillets.  Take  up  each 
fillet  separately,  roll,  and  fasten  with  a  wooden 
skewer.  Arrange  pork  in  pan,  cover  with  onion  and 
bay  leaf,  broken  in  pieces,  and  place  fillets  over  all. 
Work  butter  until  creamy,  add  flour  and  stir  until 
well  blended.  Then  mask  fillets  with  mixture,  sprinkle 
with  buttered  crumbs,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven.  Re- 
move to  serving  dish,  take  out  skewers,  and  pour 
around  the  following  sauce: 

To  two  and  one-half  tablespoons  fat,  remaining 
in  pan,  add  two  tablespoons  flour  and  stir  until 
well  blended;  then  pour  on  gradually,  while  stirring 


92  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

constantly,  one  cup  rich  milk  or  cream.  Bring  to 
the  boiling  point  and  season  with  one-fourth  tea- 
spoon salt,  one-eighth  teaspoon  pepper,  and  one 
tablespoon  butter,  bit  by  bit. 

Huntington  Halibut,  Sauce  Verte 

Wipe  a  slice  of  halibut,  weighing  about  one  pound, 
with  a  piece  of  cheese-cloth  wrung  out  of  cold  water. 
Free  from  skin  and  bones  and  force  through  a  meat 
chopper;  there  should  be  one  and  three-fourths  cups. 
Put  in  mortar  and  add  whites  two  eggs  gradually, 
while  working  constantly  until  mixture  is  smooth, 
then  add  one  and  one-fourth  cups  heavy  cream  and 
salt,  pepper  and  cayenne  to  taste.  Rub  through  a 
sieve,  line  buttered  individual  moulds  with  mixture 
and  nearly  fill  spaces  with  creamed  shrimps  or  crab 
meat  and  cover  with  forcemeat.  Set  in  pan  of  hot 
water,  cover  with  buttered  paper  and  bake  until 
firm.  Remove  to  hot  serving  dish  and  pour  around 
Sauce  Verte  (see  p.  160). 

Haddock  a  la  Metropole 

5-pound  haddock  3^  teaspoon  salt 

2  cups  cold  water  Y%  teaspoon  pepper 

3  slices  carrot  ^  cup  heavy  cream 

1  slice  onion  1  %  tablespoons  pimiento- 

2  sprigs  parsley  puree 

6  peppercorns  Y^   tablespoon   finely 

23^  tablespoons  butter  chopped  chives 

3}^  tablespoons  flour  J4  teaspoon  salt 

%  cup  buttered  coarse  bread  crumbs 


FISH  93 

Skin,  bone,  and  cut  haddock  into  few  fillets  for 
individual  service.  Cover  bones,  skin,  and  trimmings 
with  water,  add  carrot,  onion,  parsley,  and  pepper; 
bring  to  the  boiling  point  and  let  simmer  until 
reduced  one-half.  Melt  butter,  add  flour  and  stir 
until  well  blended;  then  add  fish  stock,  which  has 
been  strained,  and  bring  to- the  boiling  point.  Ar- 
range fish  in  buttered  pan,  brush  over  with  lemon 
juice  (using  one  and  one-half  tablespoons),  sprinkle 
with  salt  and  pepper,  and  pour  over  sauce.  Cover 
with  buttered  paper  and  bake  fifteen  minutes. 
Beat  cream  until  stiff,  add  pimiento  puree,  chives, 
and  salt.  Spread  fillets  with  cream.  Sprinkle  with 
buttered  crumbs,  and  bake  until  crumbs  are  brown. 
To  obtain  pimiento  puree  drain  canned  pimientos 
-and  force  through  a  puree  strainer. 

Stuffed  Baked  Haddock  a  la  Preston 

Wipe,  skin,  and  fillet  a  four-pound  haddock. 
Brush  over  with  lemon  juice  and  sprinkle  with  salt 
and  pepper.  Put  one  fillet  in  buttered  pan,  spread 
with  mushroom  filling,  cover  with  remaining  fillet, 
pour  over  two-thirds  cup  cream,  and  bake  twenty- 
five  minutes.  Sprinkle  with  two-thirds  cup  buttered 
bread  crumbs  and  bake  until  crumbs  are  brown. 
Remove  to  hot  serving  dish  and  strain  around 
liquor  remaining  in  pan. 

Mushroom  Stuffing.  —  Mix  one-half  cup  bread 
crumbs  with  three  tablespoons  melted  butter  and 
one-third  cup  mushroom  caps,  cut  in  pieces;  then 


94  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

add    one-half    teaspoon    salt    and     a    few    grains 
pepper. 

Baked  Bluefish  a  la  Muisset 

Wipe,  scale,  cut  off  fins,  and  remove  large  bones 
from  a  three-pound  fish.  Place  on  a  buttered  fish 
sheet  in  dripping  pan  and  sprinkle  with  one  tea- 
spoon salt  mixed  with  one-half  teaspoon  curry 
powder.  Work  one  tablespoon  butter  until  creamy, 
add  one  teaspoon  anchovy  essence,  and  spread  over 
fish.  Bake  twenty-five  minutes,  basting  four  times 
with  melted  butter,  using  one-third  cup.  Mix  two 
ounces  blanched  and  chopped  almonds  and  one  table- 
spoon capers.  Add  one-half  cup  chicken  or  brown 
stock,  bring  to  the  boiling  point  and  let  simmer  five 
minutes.  Pour  over  fish,  sprinkle  with  coarse  bread 
crumbs,  and  bake  until  crumbs  are  brown.  Remove 
to  hot  serving  dish  and  garnish  with  parsley. 

Stuffed  Turbans  of  Flounder 

2  large  flounders  3^  cup  cream 

%  cup  chopped  mushroom  12  chopped  bearded  oysters 

caps  3/6  teaspoon  salt 

Few  drops  onion  juice  3/g  teaspoon  pepper 

3  tablespoons  butter  Few  grains  cayenne 
43/3  tablespoons  flour  Few  grains  mace 

Wipe,  skin,  and  cut  flounders  into  eight  fillets. 
Trim  and  coil  around  inside  of  buttered  muffin 
rings,  placed  in  a  buttered  pan.  Cook  mushroom 
caps  and  onion  juice  with  butter  one  minute.  Add 


THE  PREPARING  OF  STUFFED  TURBANS  OF  FLOUNDER.  —  Page  94. 


STUFFED  TURBANS  OF  FLOUNDER.  —  Page  94. 


FILLET  OF  FLOUNDER  IN  PAPER  COVER  READY  FOR  OVEN.  —  Page  95. 


FILLET  OF  FLOUNDER  IN  PAPER  COVER.  —  Page  95. 


FISH  95 

flour  and  stir  until  well  blended ;  then  pour  on  grad- 
ually, while  stirring  constantly,  cream.  Bring  to  the 
boiling  point  and  add  oysters  and  seasonings.  Fill 
muffin  rings  with  mixture,  cover  with  buttered  paper, 
and  bake  fifteen  minutes.  Sprinkle  with  buttered 
bread  crumbs  and  continue  baking  until  crumbs 
are  brown. 

/ 

Fillets  of  Flounder  in  Paper  Cases 

Cut  cold  boiled  ham  in  one-fourth-inch  slices, 
then  in  oblong-shaped  pieces  with  rounding  corners. 
Fillet  large  flounders  and  cut  in  pieces.  Arrange  a 
thick  piece  on  each  piece  of  ham,  sprinkle  with  salt 
and  pepper,  put  in  paper  cases  and  turn  edges, 
thus  preventing  escape  of  juices.  Put  in  pan, 
brush  cases  with  melted  butter  and  bake  in  a  hot 
oven  fifteen  minutes.  Arrange  on  hot  serving  plates 
without  removing  cases.  Serve  with  melted  butter. 

Fillets  of  Sole,  St.  Malo 

Clean,  wipe,  and  fillet  three  flounders.  Put  in 
buttered  pan,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  and 
pour  over  three-fourths  cup  fish  stock  (made  from 
trimmings  and  bones),  one-half  cup  white  wine, 
liquor  drained  from  one-half  pint  parboiled  oysters, 
two  slices,  each,  carrot  and  onion,  bit  of  bay  leaf, 
sprig  of  parsley,  and  stalk  of  celery,  broken  in  pieces. 
Cover  with  buttered  paper  and  bake  twenty  minutes. 
Remove  fillets  to  copper  platter.  Melt  three  table- 


96  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

spoons  butter,  add  three  tablespoons  flour  and  stir 
until  well  blended;  then  pour  on  gradually,  while 
stirring  constantly,  one  cup  liquor  remaining  in  pan. 
Bring  to  the  boiling  point,  add  one-half  cup  heavy 
cream,  and  season  with  one-half  teaspoon  salt  and  a 
few  grains  paprika. 

Strain  sauce  over  fillets,  place  a  parboiled  oyster 
on  each,  sprinkle  with  six  tablespoons  Parmesan 
cheese,  and  bake  until  cheese  is  melted. 

Fillets  of  Sole  Marguery 

Wipe,  skin  and  fillet  two  sole.  Put  in  buttered 
dripping  pan,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  paprika  and 
pour  over  one-third  cup  white  wine.  Cover  with 
buttered  paper  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  fifteen 
minutes.  Put  bones  and  trimmings  of  fish  in  sauce- 
pan, add  body  bones  from  a  small  lobster  and  six 
little  neck  clams.  Cover  with  two  and  one-half  cups 
cold  water,  bring  to  the  boiling  point  and  let  simmer 
until  stock  is  reduced  to  one  cup.  Melt  three  table- 
spoons butter,  add  three  tablespoons  flour  and  stir 
until  well  blended,  then  pour  on  gradually  the  fish 
stock.  Bring  to  the  boiling  point  and  add  one- 
fourth  cup  wine  in  which  fish  has  cooked  and  season 
with  salt  and  pepper.  Arrange  fillets  on  copper  plat- 
ter, strain  over  sauce  and  garnish  with  slices  of 
lobster  meat,  chopped  truffle  and  one  dozen  little 
neck  clams.  Sprinkle  with  grated  Parmesan  cheese 
and  bake  until  thoroughly  heated. 


FISH  97 

Baked  Shad,  Roe  Sauce 

Clean  and  split  a  three-pound  shad.  Place  in  an 
oiled  dripping  pan,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper, 
brush  over  with  melted  butter  and  bake  in  a  hot 
oven  thirty  minutes.  Remove  to  serving  dish  and 
pour  around  Roe  Sauce  (see  p.  159). 

Petite  Halibut,  Lobster  Sauce 

Free  raw  halibut  from  skin  and  bones  and  force 
through  a  sieve;  there  should  be  one  cup.  Pound 
in  a  mortar,  and  add  gradually  the  white  of  one  egg; 
then  add  gradually  one  cup  heavy  cream,  and  season 
with  three-fourths  teaspoon  salt,  one-eighth  tea- 
spoon pepper,  and  a  few  grains  cayenne.  Turn  into 
slightly  buttered  individual  fish  moulds,  set  in  pan 
of  hot  water,  cover  with  buttered  paper,  and  bake 
until  firm;  the  time  required  being  about  fifteen 
minutes.  Remove  from  moulds  to  hot  serving 
dish  and  insert  peppercorns  to  represent  eyes. 
Pour  around  Lobster  Sauce  and  garnish  with  fan- 
shaped  pieces  of  lemon,  or  diamond-shaped  pieces  of 
red  pepper,  and  slices  of  cucumber  cut  in  the  shape 
of  fishes. 

Lobster  Sauce 

Melt  two  tablespoons  butter,  add  two  tablespoons 
flour  and  stir  until  well  Blended ;  then  pour  on  grad- 
ually, while  stirring  constantly,  one-third  cup  lobster 
stock  and  one-fourth  cup  cream.  Bring  to  the  boiling 


98  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

point  and  add  one-fourth  cup  butter,  bit  by  bit, 
yolks  two  eggs,  one  tablespoon  lemon  juice,  one-half 
teaspoon  salt,  one-eighth  teaspoon  pepper,  a  few 
grains  cayenne,  and  two  tablespoons  lobster  meat 
cut  in  cubes. 

Moulded  Rolled  Fillets  of  Halibut 

Wipe,  skin,  and  fillet  a  three-pound  chicken 
halibut  or  turbot.  Cut  each  of  the  four  fillets  in 
halves,  lengthwise.  Trim  into  shape,  sprinkle  with 
salt  and  lemon  juice,  and  spread  with  salmon  force- 
meat. Roll  like  a  jelly  roll  and  roll  in  buttered  cheese- 
cloth, fastening  ends  with  soft  twine.  Cook  over 
boiling  water  twenty  minutes.  Cool,  remove  from 
cheese-cloth,  and  cut  in  one-third-inch  slices,  crosswise. 
Line  buttered  charlotte  russe  moulds  with  prepared 
fish,  spread  with  halibut  forcemeat  to  keep  pieces 
in  shape  and  fill  cavity  with  a  mixture  of  three- 
fourths  cup  cold,  cooked,  flaked  salmon  and  halibut 
(using  equal  parts),  and  one-fourth  cup  chopped 
mushrooms,  moistened  with  sauce  made  from  one 
and  one-half  tablespoons,  each,  butter  and  flour 
and  one-third  cup  fish  stock.  Cover  with  salmon 
forcemeat,  set  in  a  pan  of  hot  water,  cover  with 
buttered  paper  and  bake  until  firm,  the  time 
required  being  about  forty-five  minutes.-  Remove 
from  moulds  to  hot  platter,  as  shown  in  illus- 
tration and  garnish  with  thin  slices  of  lemon, 
shrimps,  and  parsley.  Pour  around  English  Fish 
Sauce. 


PETITE  HALIBUT,  LOBSTER  SAUCE.  —  Page  97. 


MOULDED  ROLLED  FILLET  OF  HALIBUT.  —  Page  98. 


IROQUOIS  STEAK.  —  Page  107. 


TOURNADOES  OF  BEEF. — Page  109. 


FISH  99 

Salmon  Forcemeat.  —  Cut  stale,  baker's  bread  in 
slices,  remove  crusts,  break,  crumb  in  small  pieces 
and  pack  solidly  in  cup;  there  should  be  three- 
fourths  cup.  Cover  crumbs  with  cold  water  and  let 
stand  one  minute.  Drain  in  cheese-cloth  and  squeeze 
as  dry  as  possible.  Put  in  saucepan,  add  three- 
fourths  tablespoon  butter  and  cook,  stirring  con- 
stantly, until  a  paste  is  formed;  then  spread  on  a 
plate  to  cool.  Force  two-thirds  cup  of  cold,  cooked 
salmon  through  meat  chopper,  pound  in  a  mortar 
with  bread  mixture  and  add  one-third  cup  heavy 
cream,  two  eggs,  three-fourths  teaspoon  salt,  one- 
eighth  teaspoon  pepper,  and  a  slight  grating  nutmeg. 
)  Halibut  Forcemeat.  —  Melt  three  tablespoons  but- 
ter, add  six  tablespoons  flour  and  stir  until  well 
blended;  then  pour  on  gradually,  while  stirring  con- 
stantly, one-third  cup  fish  stock.  Remove  from 
range,  cool,  put  in  mortar  and  pound  with  one  and 
one-half  cups  uncooked  halibut,  forced  through  a 
meat  chopper.  When  well  blended,  add  two  eggs 
and  three  egg  yolks,  two  teaspoons  salt,  one-fourth 
teaspoon  pepper,  and  one-half  cup  heavy  cream. 
Force  through  a  puree  strainer. 

English  Fish  Sauce.  —  Make  a  stock  from  trim- 
mings from  salmon  and  halibut,  a  nape  of  halibut, 
one  sprig,  each,  parsley,  and  thyme,  one  onion,  cut 
in  halves,  bit  of  bay  leaf,  one-fourth  cup  white 
wine,  two  tablespoons  Sherry  wine,  one  tablespoon 
lemon  juice,  andfive  cups  water.  Cook  until  reduced 
to  two  cups. 


100  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

Melt  three  and  one-half  tablespoons  butter,  add 
three  and  one-half  tablespoons  flour  and  stir  until 
well  blended;  then  pour  on  gradually,  while  stirring 
constantly,  one  and  one-third  cups  stock,  the  remain- 
ing two-thirds  being  used  for  forcemeat,  and  fish 
and  mushroom  mixture.  Bring  to  the  boiling  point 
and  season  with  salt  and  pepper. 

Finnan  Haddie,  Caledonian  Style 

Cut  a  four-pound  finnan  haddie  in  halves,  length- 
wise, put  one-half  in  dripping  pan,  surround  with 
milk  and  water,  using  equal  proportions,  place  on 
back  of  range,  where  it  will  heat  slowly,  and  let  stand 
twenty-five  minutes.  Trim  fish  to  fit  a  copper 
platter  or  granite  ware  pan,  by  cutting  off  flank  and 
a  piece  from  tail  end.  Pour  over  a  cream  sauce  and 
surround  with  six  halves  of  potatoes  of  uniform  size, 
washed  and  smoothly  pared.  Bake  until  potatoes  are 
soft  (the  time  required' being  about  forty  minutes), 
basting  with  the  cream  sauce  four  times  during  the 
cooking. 

If  cooked  in  copper  platter,  serve  from  it;  if 
cooked  in  pan,  remove  to  hot  serving  dish  and  pour 
around  sauce.  For  the  Cream  Sauce  melt  two  table- 
spoons butter,  add  two  tablespoons  flour,  and  stir 
until  well  blended;  then  pour  on  gradually,  while 
stirring  constantly,  one  cup  milk  and  one-half  cup 
cream.  Bring  to  the  boiling  point  and  season  with  a 
few  grains  pepper. 


FISH  101 

Epicurean  Finnan  Haddie 

3-pound  finnan  haddie  K  cup  butter 

1  tablespoon  finely  chopped  1  teaspoon  salt 

shallot  1A  teaspoon  paprika 

2  tablespoons  finely  chopped  Few  grains  cayenne 

green  pepper  4  tablespoons  flour 

2  tablespoons  finely  chopped  1  cup  cream 

red  pepper  1  cup  milk 

Soak  finnan  haddie  in  milk  to  cover,  one  hour. 
Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  thirty  minutes  and  sepa- 
rate in  flakes;  there  should  be  two  cups.  Cook 
shallot  and  pepper  in  butter  five  minutes,  stirring 
constantly.  Add  salt,  paprika,  and  cayenne  mixed 
with  flour  and  stir  until  well  blended;  then  pour  on 
gradually,  while  stirring  constantly,  milk  and  cream. 
Bring  to  the  boiling  point  and  add  finnan  haddie. 
Serve  on  squares  of  toasted  bread,  or  turn  into  a 
buttered  baking  dish,  cover  with  buttered  crumbs 
and  bake  until  crumbs  are  brown. 


Savory  Finnan  Haddie 

Soak  a  finnan  haddie  in  milk  to  cover  one  hour; 
then  cook  until  tender  and  separate  into  flakes; 
there  should  be  one  cup.  Cut  a  two-inch  cube  of 
fat  salt  pork  in  tiny  dice  and  try  out.  To  two- 
tablespoons  of  the  pork  fat  add  two  tablespoons  flour 
and  stir  until  well  blended;  then  pour  on  gradually, 
while  stirring  constantly,  one  cup  rich  milk.  Bring 
to  the  boiling  point  and  add  finnan  haddie,  pork 
scraps,  yolks  of  two  eggs,  slightly  beaten,  and  one 
and  one-half  cups  small  potato  balls  or  cubes,  which 


102        .         A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

have  been  cooked  in  boiling,  salted  water  until  soft. 
Season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  serve  as  soon  as 
thoroughly  heated. 

Epicurean  Fish  Cutlets 

1%  cups  flaked  cooked  haddock  3  tablespoons  butter 

%  tablespoon  shallot,  finely  %  cup  flour 

chopped  %  teaspoon  salt 

2  tablespoons  red  pepper,  finely  34  teaspoon  paprika 

chopped  }/%  cup  milk 
^  cup  cream 

Cook  shallot  and  red  pepper  with  butter  five 
minutes,  stirring  constantly.  Add  flour  mixed  with 
salt  and  paprika  and  stir  until  well  blended;  then 
pour  on  gradually,  while  stirring  constantly,  milk  and 
cream.  Bring  to  the  boiling  point,  add  fish,  and 
spread  on  a  plate  to  cool. 

Shape,  dip  in  crumbs,  egg,  and  crumbs,  fry  in  deep 
fat  and  drain  on  brown  paper.  Arrange  on  a  serving 
dish,  garnish  with  sprigs  of  parsley,  and  serve  with 
or  without 

Epicurean  Sauce.  —  Mix  one  tablespoon  tarragon 
vinegar,  two  tablespoons  grated  horseradish  root, 
one  teaspoon  English  mustard,  one-half  teaspoon 
salt,  and  a  few  grains  cayenne;  then  add  one-half 
cup  whipped  cream  and  three  tablespoons  Mayon- 
naise Dressing. 

Smelts  au  Beurre  Noir 

Split  and  bone  eight  selected  smelts,  sprinkle  with  salt 
and  pepper,  roll  in  flour  and  saute  in  butter.  Remove 


FISH  103 

serving  dish,  pour  over  Beurre  Noir  and  sprinkle 
to  with  one-half  tablespoon  finely  chopped  parsley. 
Beurre  Noir.  —  To  fat  in  pan  add  two  and  one- 
half  tablespoons  butter  and  stir  until  well  browned; 
then  add  one  teaspoon  lemon  juice  and  a  few  grains, 
each,  salt  and  pepper.  Strain  over  fish. 

Smelts  a  la  Guaymas 

Wipe,  split,  and  bone  six  selected  smelts.  Sprinkle 
with  salt,  pepper,  onion  juice,  and  lemon  juice; 
cover  and  let  stand  fifteen  minutes.  Parboil  a  red 
pepper,  remove  seeds  and  outside  skin  and  rub 
pulp  through  a  sieve;  then  add  one  tablespoon  grated 
Parmesan  cheese.  Spread  smelts  with  mixture, 
roll,  fasten  with  wooden  skewers,  dip  in  crumbs, 
egg,  and  crumbs,  fry  in  deep  fat  and  drain.  Serve 
with  Guaymas  Sauce  (see  p.  159). 

Smelts  Veronique 

Clean  eight  selected  smelts,  sprinkle  with  salt  and 
pepper,  roll  in  flour  and  saute  in  olive  oil  until  deli- 
cately browned,  turning  frequently.  Remove  to 
hot  serving  dish  and  sprinkle  with  one-fourth  cup 
Jordan  almonds,  blanched,  cut  in  thin  slices  cross- 
wise and  sauted  in  olive  oil.  Garnish  with  Fried 
Potato  Curls. 

Fried  Smelts,  Britannia 

Clean  smelts,  remove  heads  and  tails,  and  cut 
in  one-half-inch  slices  crosswise.  Cut  thin  slices 


104  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

of  bacon  in  pieces.  Arrange  fish  and  bacon  alter- 
nately on  skewers  having  four  of  each  for  a  ser- 
vice. Brush  over  with  olive  oil,  seasoned  with  salt 
and  pepper,  roll  in  crumbs,  fry  in  deep  fat  and  drain 
on  brown  paper.  Garnish  with  parsley  and  serve 
with  sections  of  lemon. 

Planked  Smelts 

Clean  and  bone  eight  selected  smelts  and  arrange 
on  a  buttered  plank  in  the  shape  of  a  large  fish. 
Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  spread  with  Maitre 
d'Hotel  Butter  and  bake  twelve  minutes.  Garnish 
around  edge  with  potato  roses,  made  by  forcing 
Duchess  potatoes  through  a  pastry  bag  and  rose 
tube,  and  bake  until  fish  is  done  and  potatoes  ate 
brown.  Remove  from  oven,  sprinkle  with  finely 
chopped  parsley  and  between  roses  place  slices  of 
cucumber  and  sections  of  small  tomatoes,  each, 
dressed  with  French  dressing.  Serve  at  once 
from  plank. 

Gloucester  Salt  Codfish 

Cut  boneless  salt  codfish  in  two-inch  pieces,  cover 
with  lukewarm  water  and  let  stand  fifteen  minutes. 
Drain,  dry  on  a  towel  and  saute  in  butter  in  a  hot 
frying  pan  until  delicately  browned.  Add  rich  milk 
or  thin  cream  to  about  half  cover  fish  and  bring 
gradually  to  the  boiling  point.  Pour  into  hot  serving 
dish. 


FISH  105 

Spanish  Codfish 

Pick  over  salt  codfish  and  separate  in  small  pieces ; 
there  should  be  two-thirds  cup.  Cover  with  luke- 
warm water,  soak  until  soft,  and  drain.  Cut  four 
medium-sized  cold  boiled  potatoes  in  slices.  Arrange 
alternate  layers  of  potatoes  and  fish  in  buttered 
baking  dish,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper  and  cover 
with  one  and  one-half  canned  pimientos  cut  in 
strips;  repeat.  Pour  over  one  cup  tomato  sauce, 
cover  with  buttered  cracker  crumbs  and  bake  until 
crumbs  are  brown. 

Salmon  Souffle,  Spanish  Sauce 

1  can  salmon  ^  cup  soft  bread  crumbs 

1  teaspoon  salt  J^  cup  milk 
Y%  teaspoon  paprika  Yolks  3  eggs 

2  teaspoons  lemon  juice  Whites  3  eggs 

Thoroughly  rinse  salmon,  remove  bones  and  skin, 
separate  into  flakes  and  add  seasonings.  Cook 
bread  crumbs  in  milk  five  minutes,  add  salmon  and 
the  egg  yolks  beaten  until  thick  and  lemon-colored; 
then  cut  and  fold  in  whites  of  eggs,  beaten  until  stiff 
and  dry.  Turn  into  a  buttered  dish,  set  in  a  pan  of 
hot  water,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  firm. 
Serve  with  Spanish  Sauce  (see  p.  154). 

Spiced  Salmon 

Remove  fish  from  one  can  choice  selected  salmon. 
Rinse  thoroughly  with  hot  water  and  remove  skin  and 
bones.  Put  one  cup  vinegar  in  saucepan  and  add  one 


106  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

teaspoon  whole  cloves,  one-half  teaspoon  allspice  ber- 
ries, eight  peppercorns,  and  one-fourth  teaspoon  salt. 
Bring  to  the  boiling  point,  pour  over  fish,  cover  and 
let  stand  two  hours.  Drain  and  separate  into  flakes. 

Court  Bouillon 

%  cup,  each,  carrot,  onion  and  2  cloves 

celery,  cut  in  small  pieces  %  bay  leaf 

2  sprigs  parsley  1  tablespoon  salt 

2  tablespoons  butter  2  tablespoons  vinegar 

6  peppercorns  2  quarts  water 

Cook  carrot,  onion,  celery,  and  parsley  with  butter 
three  minutes,  add  remaining  ingredients  and  bring  to 
boiling  point.  To  be  used  for  stock  in  which  to  boil  fish. 


'  CHAPTER  IX 

BEEF 

Iroquois  Steak 

Season  one  and  one-fourth  pounds  Hamburg 
steak  with  salt  and  pepper  and  form  into  one  large 
elliptical-shaped  cake.  Put  in  a  slightly  greased 
hot  iron  frying  pan,  sear  on  one  side,  turn  and 
sear  on  other  side.  Remove  to  copper  platter 
and  bake  in  a  hot  oven.  Spread  with  softened  butter, 
sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper  and  garnish  with  fried 
strips  of  green  pepper.  Arrange  glazed  silver-skinned 
onions  at  each  end  of  platter.  Fry  the  strips  of  pepper 
in  deep  fat;  then  strip  off  the  outside  skin  that  blis- 
ters during  the  process. 

Steven  Steak 

Cut  flank  end  from  a  sirloin  or  Porterhouse  steak, 
wipe  and  remove  superfluous  fat.  Force  through  a 
meat  chopper  or  finely  chop  and  add  two  tablespoons 
cracker  crumbs,  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  one-eighth 
teaspoon  paprika  and  one-half  egg,  slightly  beaten. 
Shape  into  a  cake,  using  as  little  preserve  as  possible 
and  saute  in  a  hot  iron  frying  pan.  Remove  to 
platter,  pour  around  one  cup  White  Sauce  I  (see  The 


108  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

Boston  Cooking-School  Cook  Book,  p.  266),  to  which 
is  added  one-fourth  teaspoon  beef  extract.  Garnish 
with  parsley. 

Smothered  Round  Steak 

Try  out,  in  a  hot  iron  frying  pan,  three  slices  fat 
salt  pork  three  by  four  inches  and  add  one  onion, 
peeled  and  cut  in  thin  slices.  Cook,  stirring  con- 
stantly, until  onion  is  brown.  Wipe  a  two  pound 
slice  of  round  steak,  put  in  frying  pan  and  pour  over 
one  and  one-half  cups  cold  water  and  add  one-fourth 
teaspoon  salt.  Bring  quickly  to  the  boiling  point, 
cover  closely,  remove  to  back  of  range  and  let  simmer 
until  meat  is  tender.  Remove  steak  to  hot  platter 
and  strain  stock  of  which  there  should  be  one  cup. 
Melt  one  tablespoon  butter,  add  two  tablespoons 
flour  and  stir  until  well  blended;  then  pour  on  gradu- 
ally, while  stirring  constantly  hot  stock.  Bring  to 
the  boiling  point,  season  with  salt  and  pepper  and 
pour  over  steak. 

Planked  Rump  Steak 

Wipe  a  rump  steak,  cut  two  inches  thick,  and  pan- 
broil  for  ten  minutes.  Pipe  a  border  of  mashed 
potatoes  (using  a  pastry  bag  and  rose  tube)  around 
edge  of  slightly  buttered  plank;  put  steak  in  centre 
and  place  in  oven  to  brown  potatoes  and  finish  cook- 
ing meat.  Garnish  with  Glaced  Onions  (The  Boston 
Cooking-School  Cook  Book,  see  p.  296),  Julienne 
Potatoes,  buttered  carrot  slices,  Littleton  Stuffed 


THE  LARDING  OF  A  FILLET  OF  BEEF.  —  Page  110. 


COLD  ROAST  BEEF  A  LA  SHAPLEIGH.  —  Page  116. 


BEEF  109 

Peppers   (see  p.  174)   and  sauted  mushroom  caps. 
Place  plank  on  platter  and  surround  with  parsley. 

Planked  Sirloin  Steak 

Wipe  a  sirloin  steak,  cut  two  inches  thick,  remove 
flank  end,  and  pan-broil  ten  minutes.  Pipe  a  border 
of  mashed  potatoes  around  edge  of  slightly  buttered 
plank  and  make  eight  nests  of  mashed  potatoes. 
Place  steak  on  plank  and  put  in  oven  to  brown 
potatoes  and  finish  cooking  steak.  P^ill  potato 
nests  with  canned  peas,  reheated  and  seasoned, 
and  arrange  around  at  equal  distances  piles  of  but- 
tered carrot  cubes  and  stuffed  tomatoes.  Fit  plank 
into  nickel  frame  and  send  to  table. 

Tournadoes  of  Beef 

Wipe  a  fillet  of  beef,  cut  in  three-fourth-inch 
slices  and  trim  in  circular  shapes.  Saute  in  butter 
in  a  hot  iron  frying  pan  six  minutes.  Arrange  on 
serving  dish,  place  a  Hominy  and  Horseradish 
Croquette  on  each  and  on  each  croquette  place  a 
section  of  banana,  sauted  in  butter.  To  fat  remain- 
ing in  frying  pan  add  two  tablespoons  boiling  water, 
one-half  teaspoon  beef  extract  and  one  tablespoon 
butter.  Pour  around  beef. 

Beef  Tenderloins  a  la  Wright 

Cut  six  three-quarter-inch  slices  from  a  tenderloin 
of  beef,  trim  and  shape  into  rounds  and  broil  four 


110  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

minutes.  Wipe  and  chop  ten  mushrooms,  add  three 
tablespoons  butter  and  cook  five  minutes;  then  add 
two  tablespoons  flour,  one-half  cup  cream,  two  table- 
spoons Sherry  wine,  one  and  one-half  teaspoons 
salt,  one-eighth  teaspoon,  each,  nutmeg  and  cayenne 
and  cook  five  minutes.  Put  mixture  in  eight  puff 
paste  cases,  cover  with  broiled  tenderloin  and  gar- 
nish top  of  each  with  a  sauted  mushroom  cap. 
Serve  with  Sauce  Bearnaise  (The  Boston  Cooking- 
School  Cook  Book,  see  p.  275). 

Larded  Fillet  of  Beef,  Madeira  Sauce 

Wipe  a  fillet  of  beef,  remove  fat,  veins  and 
tendonous  portions,  skewer  in  shape  and  lard  upper 
side  with  grain  of  meat.  Place  on  rack  in  pan, 
sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  dredge  with  flour 
and  put  in  bottom  of  pan  small  pieces  of  pork. 
Bake  in  a  hot  oven  twenty-five  minutes,  basting 
three  times.  Take  out  skewer,  remove  meat  to 
hot  platter,  pour  around  Madeira  sauce  and  garnish 
with  parsley.  For  the  sauce  brown  four  table- 
spoons butter,  add  five  tablespoons  flour  and  stir 
until  well  browned.  Then  pour  on  gradually, 
while  stirring  constantly,  one  and  one-fourth 
cups  brown  stock.  Bring  to  the  boiling  point 
and  add  two  canned  pimientos  (drained  and  cut 
in  thin  strips),  one-half  teaspoon  salt  and  a  few 
grains  pepper.  Again  bring  to  the  boiling  point 
and  add  one  and  one-half  tablespoons  Madeira 
wine. 


BEEF  111 

Fillet  of  Beef  a  la  Newport 

Wipe,  remove  fat,  veins  and  tendinous  portions 
from  a  fillet  of  beef.  Put  one-fourth  cup  butter  in 
hot  frying  pan  and  add  two  tablespoons  finely 
chopped  parsley  and  two  slices  lemon.  When  butter 
is  melted,  add  fillet  and  turn  frequently  until  entire 
surface  is  seared  and  well  browned.  Cook,  turning 
occasionally,  twenty  minutes;  then  pour  over  one- 
fourth  cup  Sherry  wine,  cover  and  let  stand  eight 
minutes.  Place  on  hot  platter,  remove  lemon 
and  pour  liquid  in  pan  over  meat.  Garnish  with 
parsley. 

Hungarian  Goulasch 

Wipe  two  pounds  beef  cut  from  lower  part  of 
round  with  a  piece  of  cheese-cloth,  wrung  out  of 
cold  water,  and  cut  in  one  and  one-half  inch  cubes. 
Put  in  saucepan,  add  one  quart  boiling  water, 
to  which  has  been  added  two  cloves  of  garlic  and 
let  boil  five  minutes.  Cover  and  let  simmer  until 
meat  is  tender. 

Pare  potatoes  and  cut  in  three-quarter-inch  slices, 
then  cut  slices  in  cubes;  there  should  be  one  and  one- 
half  cups.  Cover  with  boiling  salted  water  and  let 
boil  five  minutes;  drain  and  add  to  meat  fifteen 
minutes  before  serving-time  to  finish  the  cooking. 
Peel  twenty-four  tiny  onions  and  cook  in  boiling 
salted  water  to  cover;  drain  and  add  to  goulasch. 
Cream  three  tablespoons  butter,  add  three  table- 


112  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

spoons  flour  and  work  until  smooth;  then  add  by 
small  pieces  to  stock  in  stewpan  (of  which  there 
should  be  two  cups),  stirring  constantly.  Season  with 
salt  and  pepper  and  turn  on  a  hot  platter. 

Pot  Roast 

Wipe  one  and  one-half  pounds  lean  beef,  cut  from 
forequarter,  with  a  piece  of  cheese-cloth,  wrung  out 
of  cold  water,  and  cut  in  one  and  one-half  inch 
pieces.  Put  in  an  earthen  dish  (a  bean-pot  will 
answer  the  purpose)  or  casserole  dish,  and  add  one 
onion,  peeled  and  sliced,  eight  slices  of  carrot  cut  one- 
fourth  inch  thick,  two  sprigs  parsley,  one  and  one- 
half  teaspoons  salt,  and  a  half  teaspoon  peppercorns. 
Add  meat  and  two  cups,  each,  hot  water  and  canned 
tomatoes.  Cover  and  bake  in  a  slow*  oven  three 
and  one-half  hours.  Half  an  hour  before  serving 
time  thicken  with  three  tablespoons  butter,  worked 
until  creamy  and  mixed  with  three  tablespoons  flour, 
and  add  one  cup  canned  peas,  which  have  been  thor- 
oughly rinsed  with  cold  water  and  allowed  to  become 
reoxygenated.  Remove  onion,  carrot,  parsley  and 
peppercorns  and  turn  on  a  hot  serving  dish. 

Pot  Roast,  American  Style 

Buy  four  pounds  beef,  cut  from  top  of  shin  or 
from  a  rib  roll.  Wipe  with  a  piece  of  cheese-cloth, 
wrung  out  of  cold  water,  rub  over  with  salt  and 
sprinkle  with  pepper.  Roll  in  flour  and  sear  the  en- 


BEEF  113 

tire  surface  in  hot  fat  salt  pork.  Place  in  a  casserole 
dish  or  porcelain-lined  kettle.  Add  one-half  cup 
hot  water,  cover  and  cook  four  hours,  adding  more 
water  as  needed,  and  turning  three  times  during  the 
cooking.  If  done  in  a  casserole  dish,  bake  in  the 
oven ;  if  in  either  of  the  other  vessels  mentioned,  cook 
on  top  of  range. 

Wash  and  scrape  two  carrots,  cut  in  one-eighth- 
inch  slices,  cook  in  boiling  salted  water  until  soft; 
drain  and  season  with  butter,  salt  and  pepper. 
Wash,  pare  and  soak  eight  small  potatoes  of  uniform 
size  and  cut  in  eighths,  lengthwise.  Cook  in  boiling 
salted  water  to  cover;  drain,  sprinkle  with  salt  and 
pour  over  one-fourth  cup  clarified  butter.  Remove 
meat  to  a  hot  serving  dish,  surround  with  carrot  and 
potatoes  and  garnish  with  parsley.  If  cauliflower 
is  at  hand,  it  makes  a  most  agreeable  addition  to  this 
dish. 

•  Cannelon  of  Beef 

Wipe  one  and  one-half  pounds  lean  beef,  cut  from 
round,  and  finely  chop.  Add  one-third  cup  finely 
chopped  fat  salt  pork  and  season  with  salt  and 
pepper.  Shape  in  a  roll,  wrap  in  buttered  paper, 
place  on  rack  in  dripping  pan  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven 
thirty-five  minutes,  basting  every  five  minutes  with 
butter,  melted  in  boiling  water,  using  three  table- 
spoons butter  and  three-fourths  cup  water.  Re- 
move from  paper  to  serving  dish.  Pour  around 
tomato  sauce  and  garnish  with  parsley. 


114  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

Swedish  Meat  Balls 

Wipe  one  pound  beef,  cut  from  lower  part  of  round, 
with  a  piece  of  cheese-cloth  wrung  out  of  cold  water. 
Force  through  a  meat-chopper  or  chop  finely; 
there  should  be  two  cups.  Add  one-half  cup  stale 
bread  crumbs  and  one  egg,  slightly  beaten;  then 
season  with  two-thirds  teaspoon  salt,  one-eighth 
teaspoon  pepper  and  a  few  grains  nutmeg.  Make 
into  balls,  using  as  little  pressure  as  possible,  one  and 
one-half  inches  in  diameter;  cover  and  let  stand  one 
hour.  Try  out  three  slices  fat  salt  pork  three  inches 
square  and  brown  meat-balls  in  pork  fat.  Melt 
two  tablespoons  butter,  add  two  tablespoons  flour 
and  stir  until  well  blended;  then  pour  on  gradu- 
ally, while  stirring  constantly,  one  and  three- 
fourths  cups  brown  stock.  Bring  to  the  boiling 
point  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Add  balls 
to  sauce,  cover  and  let  simmer  one  and  one-half 
hours.  Swedish  meat  balls  are  frequently  served 
with  dumplings. 

\ 

Canadian  Meat  Pie 

\y<L  Ibs.  top  of  round  steak  l^i  tablespoons  Worcester- 
3  lambs'  kidneys  shire  Sauce 

1^2  sliced  onions  2  tablespoons  flour 

2%  tablespoons  butter  %  teaspoon  salt 

1^  cups  boiling  water  Y%  teaspoon  pepper 

Wipe  steak,  remove  fat  and  cut  lean  meat  in 
three-fourths-inch  cubes.  Soak,  pare,  trim  and 
cut  kidneys  in  one-fourth-inch  cubes.  Try  out 


BEEF  115 

fat,  removed  from  steak;  add  onion  and  stir  con- 
stantly until  well  browned.  Add  one  tablespoon 
butter,  beef  and  kidneys  and  stir  constantly  until 
entire  surface  of  meat  is  well  seared  and  browned ; 
then  remove  to  stewpan.  To  fat  remaining  in 
pan,  add  boiling  water  and  strain ;  then  add 
Worcestershire  Sauce,  salt  and  pepper.  Pour  over 
meat,  cover  tightly  and  let  cook  on  back  of  range, 
or  over  gas  flame  (over  which  is  placed  an  asbestos 
cover),  until  meat  is  tender.  Strain  off  liquid 
remaining  in  pan  and  thicken  with  remaining  but- 
ter and  flour  mixed  together.  When  meat  is  cold, 
turn  into  an  elliptical-shaped  granite-ware  baking 
dish  (having  a  half -inch  rim)  in  the  centre  of  which 
is  placed  an  earthen  cup,  and  pour  over  one-half 
the  sauce,  reserving  the  remainder  to  pass  sepa- 
rately, when  the  pie  is  served.  Place  on  rim  of 
pan  a  three-fourths-inch  strip  of  paste,  brush  over 
with  cold  water  and  put  on  a  cover  from  the  cen- 
tre of  which  a  circular  piece  has  been  cut.  Gar- 
nish, as  shown  in  illustration,  with  a  braid  of 
paste  and  four  diamond-shaped  pieces.  Around 
edge  make  a  row  of  parallel  creases,  one-half  inch 
apart,  using  the  back  of  a  knife.  Between  each 
two  creases  snip  paste  three  times,  using  scissors. 
Bake  in  a  hot  oven. 

N  Casserole  of  Beef 

Cut  cold  roast  beef  and  cold  broiled  steak,  alone 
or  in  combination,  in  one-inch  cubes;   there  should 


116  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

be  one  quart.  Put  in  a  casserole  dish  and  add  two 
cups  brown  sauce  or  beef  gravy,  one-half  cup  celery 
cut  in  small  pieces,  one-half  cup  carrot  cut  in  small 
cubes,  one  onion  thinly  sliced,  one  cup  canned 
tomatoes,  one  teaspoon  Worcestershire  Sauce,  one- 
half  teaspoon  salt  and  one-eighth  teaspoon  pepper. 
Cover  and  bake  one  hour;  then  add  one  cup 
peas,  beans  or  mushrooms,  canned  or  fresh,  one 
cup  potato  balls  or  cubes,  which  have  been  cooked 
in  boiling  salted  water  ten  minutes,  and  two  table- 
spoons Sherry  wine.  Again  cover  and  cook  thirty 
minutes,  or  until  potatoes  are  soft.  Serve  from 
casserole. 

Cold  Roast  Beef  a  la  Shapleigh 

Cut  cold  roast  beef  in  thin  slices  and  arrange 
slices  overlapping  one  another,  lengthwise  of  platter. 
Mix  six  tablespoons  olive  oil,  two  tablespoons  Tar- 
ragon vinegar,  one  teaspoon  salt,  one-fourth  teaspoon 
pepper,  one-half  teaspoon,  each,  paprika  and  dry 
mustard,  and  one  tablespoon,  each,  finely  chopped 
shallot,  parsley  and  red  pepper.  Pour  dressing  over 
meat  and  garnish  with  crisp  lettuce  leaves,  stoned 
olives  and  curled  celery. 

Baked  Larded  Liver,  Claret  Sauce 

Skewer,  tie  in  shape  and  lard  upper  surface  of 
calf's  liver.  Place  in  pan  and  spread  with  the  follow- 
ing mixture:  Cream  three  tablespoons  butter  and 
add  one  and  one-fourth  teaspoons  salt  and  one-half 


BEEF  117 

teaspoon,  each,  ground  clove  and  pepper.  Pour 
around  liver  one-half  cup  boiling  water  and  cook  in  a 
moderate  oven  one  hour,  basting  every  ten  minutes. 
Remove  to  hot  serving  dish,  skim  off  fat  from  liquor 
remaining  in  pan,  add  one  cup  claret  wine  and  strain 
sauce  around  liver. 

Fricandeau  of  Liver 

%  cup  chopped,  cold,  cooked       2  tablespoons  flour 

liver  %  cup  cream 

3  tablespoons  butter  ^  teaspoon  salt 

1  tablespoon  onion,  finely  }/%  teaspoon  paprika 

chopped  2  tablespoons  Sherry  wine 

Six  slices  buttered  toast 

Cook  butter  with  onion  three  minutes,  stirring 
constantly.  Add  flour  and  stir  until  well  blended; 
then  pour  on  cream,  gradually,  while  stirring  con- 
stantly. Bring  to  the  boiling  point  and  add  salt, 
paprika  and  liver.  When  thoroughly  heated  add 
Sherry  wine,  and  pour  over  toast  (from  which  crusts 
have  been  removed).  Garnish  with  toast  points 
and  parsley. 

Calf's  Liver  a  la  Madame  Beque 

Wipe  liver  and  cut  in  one-inch  cubes.  Sprinkle 
with  salt  and  pepper  and  cover  with  thin  slices  lemon 
and  three  sprigs  parsley.  Let  stand  two  hours, 
fry  in  deep  fat  one  minute  and  drain  on  brown  paper. 
Remove  to  hot  serving  dish  and  garnish  with  slices 
of  lemon  and  sprigs  of  parsley. 


118  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

Calf's  Brains  a  la  York 

Wash  brains  and  cook  thirty  minutes  in  boiling, 
salted,  acidulated  water,  to  which  has  been  added  one 
slice,  each,  onion  and  carrot,  sprig  of  parsley,  bit  of 
bay  leaf  and  stalk  of  celery,  broken  in  pieces. 
Remove  from  stock,  drain  and  place  under  a  weight; 
when  cold  cut  in  small  cubes,  pour  over  one-half 
cup  Sherry  wine,  cover  and  let  stand  one  hour. 
Brush  and  peel  one-fourth  pound  mushroom  caps, 
cut  in  slices,  and  saute  in  butter.  Melt  three  table- 
spoons butter,  add  three  tablespoons  flour  and  stir 
until  well  blended.  Then  pour  on  gradually,  while 
stirring  constantly,  one  cup  thin  cream  and  one- 
half  cup  heavy  cream.  Bring  to  the  boiling  point, 
add  brains  and  mushroom  caps  and  season  with  one 
teaspoon  salt,  one-fourth  teaspoon  paprika  and  a 
few  grains  cayenne. 

Corned  Beef  Tomato  Toast  a  la  Bradley 

3^4  tablespoons  butter  H>  cup  milk 

3  tablespoons  flour  %  teaspoon  salt 

1  Yt  cups  stewed  and  strained    8  slices  dry  toast 

tomatoes  H  cup  chopped  remnants 

Y±  teaspoon  soda  cooked  corned  beef 

2  tablespoons  grated  cheese 

Melt  butter,  add  flour  and  stir  until  well  blended; 
then  pour  on  gradually,  while  stirring  constantly, 
tomatoes,  to  which  soda  has  been  added.  Bring  to 
the  boiling  point  and  add  milk  and  salt  and  again 
bring  to  the  boiling  point.  Dip  toast  (from  which 


BEEF  119 

crusts  have  been  removed)  separately  in  sauce,  and 
when  soft  remove  to  serving  dish.  To  remaining 
sauce  add  chopped  corned  beef  and  pour  over  all. 
Sprinkle  with  cheese  and  garnish  with  toast  points 
and  parsley. 


CHAPTER  X 

LAMB   AND   MUTTON 

Lamb  Chops,  Re  for  me 

Wipe  six  French  chops  and  sprinkle  with  one-half 
teaspoon  salt  and  one-fourth  teaspoon  pepper. 
Roll  in  flour,  egg  (slightly  beaten  and  diluted  with 
one  and  one-half  tablespoons  water)  and  five  table- 
spoons finely  chopped  raw  ham.  Saute  in  a  hot 
iron  frying  pan,  arrange  on  a  hot  platter  and  pour 
around  the  following  sauce:  Cut  in  thin  strips  two 
gherkins,  one  small  truffle,  six  mushroom  caps, 
and  white  one  hard-boiled  egg.  Add  one  tablespoon 
Sherry  and  three-fourths  cup  brown  stock.  Bring 
to  the  boiling  point  and  let  simmer  five  minutes. 
Season  to  taste  with  salt. 

Spanish  Lamb  Chops,  Truffle  Sauce 

Wipe  six  French  chops,  cut  one  and  one-half 
inches  thick,  split  meat  in  halves,  cutting  to  bone,  and 
stuff  with  the  following  mixture :  Mix  six  tablespoons 
soft  bread  crumbs,  three  tablespoons  chopped 
mushroom  caps,  two  tablespoons  melted  butter 
and  salt  and  cayenne  to  taste.  Dip  chops  in  crumbs, 
egg  and  crumbs,  and  fry  in  deep  fat.  Serve  with 
Truffle  Sauce  (see  p.  154). 


LAMB  AND  MUTTON  121 

Kernels  of  Lamb,  Currant  Mint  Sauce 

Wipe  eight  lamb  chops,  remove  eye  of  meat  and 
saute  in  a  hot  iron  frying  pan  or  blazer  from  six 
to  eight  minutes,  sprinkling  with  salt  the  last  two 
minutes  of  the  cooking.  Remove  to  hot  dish  and 
serve  with  Currant  Mint  Sauce  (The  Boston  Cook- 
ing-School Cook  Book,  see  p.  219). 

f  Tournadoes  of  Lamb 

Order  six  kidney  lamb  chops  cut  two  inches 
thick.  Remove  fat  and  bone  and  skewer  lean  meat 
into  six  circular  pieces.  Coil  around  each  a  thinly 
cut  strip  of  bacon,  having  bacon  overlap  one  inch, 
and  fasten  with  wooden  skewers.  Sprinkle  with 
salt  and  pepper;  place  in  a  greased  broiler,  and  broil 
over  a  clear  fire  or  bake  in  a  hot  oven;  the  time  re- 
quired being  about  fifteen  minutes.  Remove  to 
hot  platter  and  garnish  with  Savory  Potatoes  (see 
p.  182)  and  parsley.  Mint  jelly  should  accompany 
this  dish. 

Sauted  Fillets  of  Lamb 

Order  two  pounds  lamb  cut  from  fore  quarter. 
Remove  bones  and  cut  meat  in  strips  one  inch  in 
thickness;  then  flatten  with  a  cleaver  to  three- 
fourths  inch  in  thickness.  Arrange  on  a  platter 
and  pour  over  a  marinade,  made  by  mixing  three 
tablespoons  olive  oil,  three  tablespoons  vinegar, 
two-thirds  teaspoon  salt,  one-half  onion  finely 


122  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

chopped,  and  one  tablespoon  parsley  finely  chopped. 
Cover  and  let  stand  over  night  or  for  several  hours. 
Remove  pieces  of  vegetables  from  fillets  and  saute 
in  a  hot  frying  pan,  using  as  little  butter  as  possible. 

Lamb  Chops  a  la  Rector 

Force  a  border  of  Duchess  Potato  mixture  around 
edge  of  plank,  using  a  pastry  bag  and  tube.  In 
centre  place  two  thin  pieces  of  broiled  ham  and  on 
ham  place  two  thick  broiled  chops,  the  bone  ends  of 
which  are  garnished  with  paper  frills.  At  ends  of 
plank  place  canned  artichoke  bottoms,  drained, 
heated  and  seasoned  with  melted  butter,  salt  and 
pepper.  Fill  artichoke  bottoms  with  Rector  Potatoes 
(see  p.  187).  Place  sauted  mushroom  caps  between 
chops.  Garnish  with  sprigs  of  parsley. 

Mutton  Duck 

Remove  the  bones  from  a  fore  quarter  of  lamb, 
excepting  the  leg  bone,  from  the  inside  end  of  which 
a  piece  should  be  sawed,  so  as  to  make  a  shape  more 
like  a  duck.  From  outside  end  saw  off  pieces, 
that  bone  may  be  left  to  better  represent  bill. 
Scrape  removed  blade  bone,  trim,  point  end  and  in- 
sert to  represent  tail.  Stuff,  sew,  skewer,  cover  parts 
representing  head  and  tail  with  buttered  paper  and 
tie  into  shape.  Place  on  rack  in  dripping  pan, 
sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  dredge  meat  and 
bottom  of  pan  with  flour,  and  arrange  three  gashed 
thin  slices  of  fat  salt  pork  on  meat  and  one  slice  cut 


LAMB  ("HOPS  A  LA  RECTOR.  —  Page  122. 


TOURXADOES   OF   LAMB    READY   FOR   COOKING.  —  Page  121. 


MUTTON  DUCK  READY  FOR  OVEN.  —  Page  122. 


MUTTON  DUCK  GARNISHED  FOR  SERVING.  —  Page  122. 


LAMB   AND   MUTTON  123 

in  pieces  in  bottom  of  pan.  Roast  in  a  hot  oven  two 
hours,  basting  every  fifteen  minutes,  with  one-third 
cup  butter  melted  in  two-thirds  cup  boiling  water, 
and  after  that  is  gone,  with  fat  in  pan.  Remove 
string,  paper  and  skewers,  place  on  serving  dish 
and  garnish  with  fried  potatoes  and  Baked  Egg 
Plant  in  Pimiento  Cases. 

Serve  with  a  brown  gravy  made  from  fat  in  pan. 

A  fore  quarter  of  lamb  may  be  ordered  dressed  for 
a  mutton  duck  at  any  first-class  city  market,  when 
it  will  be  necessary  to  remove  stitches  if  one  cares 
to  use  stuffing.  It  may  be  roasted  without  stuffing. 

Devonshire  Saddle  of  Mutton 

Wipe  a  saddle  of  mutton,  sprinkle  with  salt  and 
pepper,  place  on  rack  in  dripping  pan,  and  dredge 
meat  and  bottom  of  pan  with  flour.  Bake  in  a  hot 
oven  one  and  one-quarter  hours,  basting  every  ten 
minutes  with  fat  in  pan.  Serve  with  Devonshire 
Sauce  (see  p.  159). 

Lamb  Rechauffe 

Yz  tumbler  currant  jelly  Cayenne 

1  cup  heavy  cream  1^  teaspoon  arrowroot 

2  tablespoons  Sherry  wine  1  tablespoon  milk 
Salt  Cold  roast  lamb,  thinly 

sliced 

Melt  jelly  in  chafing  dish  and  add  cream  and  wine. 
Season  with  salt  and  cayenne.  Dilute  arrowroot 
with  milk  and  add  to  mixture  and  when  thickened 


124  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

add  lamb.     Serve  as  soon  as  meat  has  thoroughly 
heated. 

x^Lamb  a  la  Breck 

Finely  chop  cold  roast  lamb;  there  should  be  one 
cup.  Season  with  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  one-eighth 
teaspoon  pepper,  one-eighth  teaspoon  celery  salt 
and  a  few  drops  onion  juice.  Put  in  a  buttered  bak- 
ing dish  and  pour  over  one  and  one-half  cups  milk, 
to  which  have  been  added  four  eggs,  slightly  beaten. 
Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  firm. 

Cold  Roast  Lamb,  Family  Style 

Cut  cold  roast  lamb  in  slices  and  arrange,  over- 
lapping one  another,  around  chop  plate.  In  centre 
place  individual  moulds  of  seasoned,  hot,  chopped 
boiled  spinach,  seasoned  with  butter,  salt  and  pepper. 
Make  a  depression  in  each  mould  and  in  cavity 
thus  made  drop  a  poached  egg.  Garnish  with 
watercress. 


CHAPTER  XI 

VEAL    AND    SWEETBREADS 
Bavarian  Veal  Chops 

WIPE  six  loin  chops  and  put  in  a  stewpan  with 
one-half  sliced  onion,  eight  slices  carrot, 
two  stalks  celery,  one-half  teaspoon  peppercorns, 
four  cloves  and  two  tablespoons  butter.  Cover  with 
boiling  water  and  let  simmer  until  chops  are  tender. 
Drain,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  dip  in  flour, 
egg  and  crumbs,  fry  in  deep  fat  and  drain  on  brown 
paper.  Arrange  on  hot  serving  dish  and  surround 
with  two  cups  boiled  macaroni,  broken  into  two- 
inch  pieces  and  mixed  with  the  following  sauce: 
Peel  and  slice  onions;  there  should  be  two  cups. 
Cover  with  boiling  water,  cook  five  minutes,  drain, 
again  cover  with  boiling  water  and  cook  until  soft; 
again  drain  and  rub  through  a  sieve.  Melt  two 
tablespoons  butter,  add  two  tablespoons  flour  and 
stir  until  well  blended;  then  pour  on  gradually,  while 
stirring  constantly,  one  cup  chicken  stock.  Bring 
to  the  boiling  point  and  add  onion  puree  and  one- 
half  cup  cream  or  milk.  Season  with  one-half  tea- 
spoon salt  and  a  few  grams  pepper. 


126  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

Veal  Holstein 

Wipe  and  trim  two  slices  of  veal,  cut  from  the  leg; 
then  pound  by  using  edge  of  saucer  or  plate  and  cut 
in  pieces  for  serving.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper, 
dip  in  stale  bread  crumbs,  egg  and  crumbs,  and  saute 
in  a  hot  iron  frying  pan,  until  well  browned,  using 
two-thirds  pork  fat  to  one-third  butter.  Place  on 
back  of  range,  pour  over  one  and  one-half  cups  brown 
sauce,  cover  and  let  simmer  until  meat  is  tender,  the 
time  being  from  one  to  one  and  one-half  hours. 
Remove  to  serving  dish  and  strain  sauce  around  cut- 
lets. Garnish  each  with  a  poached  egg  and  around 
dish  arrange  thin  slices  of  cucumber  pickles,  thin 
slices  of  cooked  beets  (cut  in  fancy  shapes),  slices 
of  lemon  (sprinkled  with  finely  chopped  parsley) 
and  stoned  olives  stuffed  with  capers  and  anchovies. 

Stuffed  Cushion  of  Veal,  Brown  Mushroom  Sauce 

Order  a  five-pound  cushion  of  veal  (a  piece  cut 
from  the  upper  part  of  the  leg) .  Wipe,  stuff  and  truss. 
Put  one-fourth  pound  butter  in  a  hot  iron  frying 
pan  and  when  melted  add  veal  and  cook  until  the 
entire  surface  is  seared  and  well  browned,  turning 
frequently,  using  a  two-tined  fork  to  prevent  pierc- 
ing. Cover  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  from  one  and 
one-half  to  two  hours.  Remove  to  hot  platter, 
garnish  with  parsley  and  serve  with  Brown  Mush- 
room Sauce. 

Stuffing.  —  Toast  six  slices  of  stale  baker's  bread, 


VEAL  AND  SWEETBREADS  127 

cut  one-half  inch  in  thickness,  with  crusts  removed. 
Pour  over  brown  or  chicken  stock  to  moisten.  Add 
one  two-inch  cube  fat  salt  pork,  finely  chopped, 
one  hard-boiled  egg,  finely  chopped,  and  one-fourth 
pound  mushroom  caps,  cleaned,  peeled,  sauted  in 
butter  three  minutes  and  cut  in  strips.  Season  with 
salt  and  pepper. 

Brown  Mwhroom  Sauce.  —  Pour  off  one-fourth 
cup  fat  remaining  in  pan,  add  five  tablespoons  flour 
and  stir  until  well  blended;  then  pour  on  gradually, 
while  stirring  constantly,  one  and  one-fourth  cups 
brown  stock,  bring  to  the  boiling  point  and  add  one- 
third  cup  mushroom  liquor  (obtained  by  cooking 
stems  and  peeling  of  mushroom  caps).  Season 
with  salt  and  pepper,  add  fat  remaining  in  pan, 
stirring  vigorously,  and  strain  through  a  double 
thickness  of  cheese-cloth,  placed  over  a  strainer. 
Add  one-half  pound  mushroom  caps,  cleaned, 
peeled,  cut  in  slices  and  sauted  in  butter  three 
minutes.  Bring  to  the  boiling  point  and  serve  at 
once. 

Loin  of  Veal,  Allemande 

Order  a  piece  cut  from  loin  of  veal  with  ribs  and 
flank  attached.  Remove  meat  which  lies  nearest 
the  backbone  in  one  piece.  Remove  meat  from  flank, 
discarding  skin;  then  force  through  a  meat  chopper; 
there  should  be  seven-eighths  cup.  Add  one-third 
cup  beef  suet,  finely  chopped,  and  mix  thoroughly. 
Cook  three-fourths  cup  stale  bread  crumbs  with 


128  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

three-fourths  cup  milk,  until  reduced  to  a  thick  paste. 
Add  three  tablespoons  butter,  one  egg  and  one  egg 
yolk,  slightly  beaten,  one  tablespoon  tomato  catsup, 
one-eighth  teaspoon  grated  nutmeg,  and  salt,  pepper 
and  cayenne  to  taste.  Combine  mixtures,  shape  in  a 
loaf,  roll  in  crumbs,  egg  and  crumbs.  Arrange  four 
slices  of  fat  salt  pork  lengthwise  of  centre  of  dripping 
pan.  Place  on  pork  the  long  rib  bones  (which  have 
been  removed),  on  bones,  the  meat  roll,  and  over  roll 
the  piece  of  lean  meat.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper, 
dredge  meat  and  bottom  of  pan  with  flour  and  over 
meat  arrange  pieces  of  fat  salt  pork.  Bake  in  a 
slow  oven  two  hours.  As  soon  as  flour  in  pan  is  brown, 
baste  with  fat  in  pan  and  continue  the  basting 
every  ten  minutes,  using  two  cups  stock,"  which 
has  been  made  from  bones  and  trimmings.  During 
the  last  half-hour  of  the  cooking  pour  over  one-half 
cup  sour  cream.  Remove  to  platter  and  garnish 
with  Deerfoot  Potatoes  (see  p.  187)  and  parsley. 
Serve  with  a  brown  gravy  made  from  fat  in  pan. 

Sweetbreads  a  la  Root 

Parboil  three  pair  sweetbreads,  drain,  then  cool 
and  insert  strips  of  truffles,  using  a  larding  needle. 
Put  in  a  pan  six  slices  carrot,  one-half  small  onion, 
sliced,  one  stalk  celery,  cut  in  pieces,  one  sprig  par- 
sley, a  bit  of  bay  leaf  and  a  two-inch  cube  fat  salt 
pork,  cut  in  pieces.  Place  sweetbreads  over  vege- 
tables, add  one-half  teaspoon  salt  and  one-fourth 
teaspoon  pepper;  cook  on  range  ten  minutes.  Pour 


LOIN  OF  VEAL  ALLEMANDE  READY  FOR  OVEN.  —  Page  127 


LOIN  OF  VEAL  ALLEMANDE.  —  Page  127. 


KERNELS  OF  PORK.  —  Page  132. 


- 


ROAST  CROWN  or  PORK.  —  Page  132. 


VEAL  AND  SWEETBREADS  129 

over  one  cup  white  stock,  one-fourth  cup  white 
wine  and  two  tablespoons  port  wine.  Cover  and 
bake  thirty  minutes. 

Arrange  around  platter  a  puree  of  French  chest- 
nuts, forced  through  a  pastry  bag  and  tube.  Place 
sweetbreads  in  centre.  Strain  sauce,  remove  fat 
and  add  one-third  cup  finely  chopped  mushroom 
caps,  cooked  in  one-half  tablespoon  butter,  two 
minutes.  Pour  sauce  over  sweetbreads  and  garnish 
with  sprigs  of  watercress. 

/  South  Park  Sweetbreads 

Parboil  two  sweetbreads  in  milk,  cool  and  cut 
in  one-half-inch  cubes.  Work  one-fourth  cup  butter 
until  creamy  and  add  the  yolks  of  four  hard-boiled 
eggs,  forced  through  a  potato  ricer,  and  one  table- 
spoon brandy.  Melt  two  tablespoons  butter,  add 
two  tablespoons  flour  and  stir  until  well  blended; 
then  pour  OB  gradually,  while  stirring  constantly, 
one  cup  cream.  Bring  to  the  boiling  point  and  add 
egg  paste,  one-half  cup  Sherry  wine,  three-fourths 
teaspoon  salt,  one-eighth  teaspoon  pepper,  a  few 
gratings  nutmeg,  whites  of  four  hard-boiled  eggs, 
finely  chopped,  and  sweetbreads.  Serve  in  timbale 
cases,  patty  shells  or  puff  paste  vol-au-vents. 

Sweetbreads  Monroe 

Parboil  a  sweetbread  and  cut  in  six  pieces.  Put 
in  a  saucepan  and  add  one  small  sliced  onion,  one 
stalk  celery,  cut  in  slices  crosswise,  four  slices  fat 


130  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

salt  pork,  cut  in  cubes,  one  tablespoon  butter,  one 
teaspoon  salt  and  one-eighth  teaspoon  pepper. 
Cook  six  minutes,  stirring  almost  constantly; 
then  add  three-fourths  cup  chicken  stock  and  one- 
fourth  cup  white  wine.  Cover  and  let  simmer  thirty- 
five  minutes.  Remove  sweetbreads  and  strain  stock. 
Melt  one  tablespoon  butter,  add  one  tablespoon  flour 
and  stir  until  well  blended;  then  pour  on  gradually, 
while  stirring  constantly,  stock.  Add  one  can 
French  peas  (drained  and  rinsed)  and  let  simmer 
ten  minutes.  Divide  peas  in  six  small  casseroles, 
place  a  piece  of  sweetbread  on  each,  cover  with 
Bearnaise  Sauce  (The  Boston  Cooking-School  Cook 
Book,  see  p.  275)  and  garnish  with  a  piece  of 
truffle. 

Waldorf  Sweetbreads 

Soak  two  pair  sweetbreads  in  cold  water  to  cover 
one  hour  and  cook  in  equal  parts  of  white  wine  and 
boiling  water  (to  which  has  been  added  one-half 
tablespoon  salt)  ten  minutes.  Drain,  trim,  place 
under  a  weight  and  let  stand  one-half  hour.  Put 
in  a  saucepan,  cover  with  thin  strips  of  fat  salt  pork, 
two  slices  each  of  onion  and  carrot,  sprig  of  parsley 
and  one  and  one-half  cups  chicken  stock.  Bring  to 
the  boiling  point  .and  let  simmer  one-half  hour. 
Drain,  cut  in  pieces  and  arrange  on  canned  artichoke 
bottoms  (re-heated  and  seasoned  with  butter,  salt 
and  pepper)  around  a  mound  of  cooked  hominy 
sprinkled  with  finely  chopped  parsley. 


VEAL  AND  SWEETBREADS  131 

/ 

Pour  around  Waldorf  Sauce  (see  p.  155)  and 
garnish  with  cutlet-shaped  pieces  of  sauted  bread 
(the  top  being  sprinkled  over  with  white  of  eggs, 
then  dipped  in  finely  chopped  parsley),  watercress 
and  parsley. 

Mock  Sweetbreads 

Finely  chop  one  pound  lean  veal,  add  two  ounces 
finely  chopped  fat  salt  pork,  and  work,  using  the 
hands,  until  well  blended;  then  add  two-thirds  cup 
soft  bread  crumbs,  two  eggs,  slightly  beaten,  one-third 
cup  flour,  one-half  cup  rich  milk,  one-half  teaspoon 
salt  and  one-eighth  teaspoon  pepper.  Form  into 
eight  elliptical-shaped  pieces,  put  in  dish,  dot  over 
with  butter,  using  one  and  one-half  tablespoons, 
and  pour  around  three-fourths  cup  chicken  stock. 
Cover  and  bake  one  hour,  basting  every  ten  minutes 
of  the  cooking.  Remove  to  hot  serving  dish  and  pour 
around  white,  brown  or  tomato  sauce. 


CHAPTER  XII 

POEK 
Kernels  of  Pork 

\\  7IPE  a  spare  rib  of  pork  and  remove  lean  meat 
*  in  one  piece.  Cut  in  three-fourth-inch  slices 
crosswise,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  saute  in  a  hot 
iron  frying  pan,  rubbed  over  with  pork  fat.  Arrange 
down  the  centre  of  a  hot  platter  and  surround  with 
nests  made  of  Savory  Potatoes  filled  with  Creamed 
Silver  Skins.  Garnish  with  sprig  of  parsley. 

Roast  Crown  of  Pork 

Select  parts  from  two  loins  containing  ribs, 
scrape  flesh  from  bone  between  ribs,  as  far  as  lean 
meat,  and  trim  off  backbone.  Shape  each  piece  in  a 
semicircle,  having  ribs  outside,  and  sew  pieces  to- 
gether to  form  a  crown.  Trim  ends  of  bones  evenly, 
care  being  taken  that  they  are  not  left  too  long. 
Sprinkle  with  salt,  dredge  with  flour  and  place  on 
rack  in  dripping  pan  (bones  down)  and  bake  in  a  hot 
oven  two  hours,  basting  every  fifteen  minutes  with 
fat  in  pan,  which  comes  from  trimmings  of  pork  fat 
placed  in  pan,  as  that  which  comes  from  crown  is 
insufficient. 

Remove  to  chop  plate,  surround  with  groups  of 


PORK  133 

Baked  Potato  Apples  (see  p.  185)  at  regular  inter- 
vals, and  between  potato  apples,  halves  of  baked 
apples.  Garnish  ends  of  bones  with  paper  frills  and 
put  a  large  bunch  of  parsley  in  centre  of  crown. 

Fort  Lincoln 

Cut  three  slices  fat  salt  pork  (three  inches  by  four 
inches)  in  small  cubes  and  try  out.  To  two  table- 
spoons pork  fat  add  three  tablespoons  flour  and  stir 
until  well  blended;  then  pour  on  gradually,  while 
stirring  constantly,  one  cup  milk,  bring  to  the 
boiling  point  and  season  with  one-half  teaspoon  salt 
and  a  few  grains  pepper.  Add  one  and  one-half  cups 
cold  roast  pork,  cut  in  cubes,  and  when  thoroughly 
heated  add  pork  scraps.  Make  a  border  in  fort  shape 
of  mashed  potatoes,  fill  with  mixture  and  garnish 
with  fried  potato  balls  and  parsley. 

Little  Roast  Pig 

Clean,  stuff,  truss  and  skewer  a  suckling  pig. 
Make  four  parallel  gashes,  three  inches  long,  through 
skin  on  each  side  of  backbone.  Put  on  rack  in  drip- 
ping pan,  brush  entire  surface  with  melted  butter, 
sprinkle  with  salt,  pour  around  two  cups  boiling 
water  and  cover  with  buttered  paper.  Roast  in  a 
hot  oven  three  hours,  basting  every  fifteen  minutes 
with  liquor  in  pan.  Remove  paper  after  cooking 
two  and  one-half  hours  and  brush  over  with  heavy 
cream.  Remove  to  serving  dish,  put  small  red  apple 


134  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

in  mouth,  cranberries  in  eye  sockets  and  laurel 
wreath  around  neck.  Garnish  with  nest-shaped 
hominy  croquettes  filled  with  Apple  Ball  Sauce  (see 
p.  391),  sections  of  red  apples  and  watercress. 

Stuffing 

6  onions  y^  cup  soft  butter 

20  sage  leaves  1  egg 

3  cups  soft  stale  bread  crumbs  Salt  and  pepper 

Peel  onions,  add  boiling  water  to  cover  and  parboil 
ten  minutes.  Add  sage  leaves  and  cook  two  minutes 
longer;  then  drain  off  water.  Finely  chop  onions  and 
sage  and  add  to  bread  crumbs,  with  butter  and  egg 
slightly  beaten.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper. 

Fried  Salt  Pork,  Country  Style 

Cut  fat  salt  pork  in  thin  slices,  and  slices  in  halves 
crosswise  (making  pieces  about  three  by  two  inches), 
and  gash  each  rind  edge  four  times.  Dip  in  a  mix- 
ture of  corn  meal  and  flour,  using  two  parts  corn 
meal  to  one  part  flour;  put  in  a  hot  iron  frying 
pan  and  cook  until  crisp  and  well  browned,  turning 
frequently.  Remove  from  pan  and  strain  fat 
through  a  double  thickness  of  cheese-cloth  placed 
over  a  fine  strainer.  Put  one  and  one-half  table- 
spoons fat  in  saucepan,  add  two  and  one-half  table- 
spoons flour  and  stir  until  well  blended;  then  pour 
on  gradually,  while  stirring  constantly,  one  cup 
milk.  Bring  to  the  boiling  point  and  add  one- 


PORK  135 

fourth  teaspoon  salt,  a  few  grains  pepper  and  one 
tablespoon  butter,  bit  by  bit;  then  add  one  and 
one-half  cups  boiled  potato  cubes.  Pile  in  centre  of 
hot  serving  dish  and  surround  with  prepared  pork. 
Garnish  with  sprigs  of  parsley. 

Bacon  Curls 

Cut  bacon  in  as  thin  slices  as  possible  and  remove 
rind.  Put  in  a  hot  iron  frying  pan  and  during  the 
cooking  shape  in  the  form  of  curls,  using  a  knife 
and  fork.  Drain  on  brown  paper  and  arrange  on 
serving  dish  around  a  mound  of  Corn  Oysters  (see 
p.  167). 

v!  Ham  a  la  Van  Voast 

Wash  and  soak  ham  over  night  in  cold  water  to 
cover.  Put  in  kettle,  cover  with  cold  water  and  add 
six  slices  carrot,  six  slices  onion,  two  stalks  celery, 
three  sprigs  parsley,  one  teaspoon  whole  cloves, 
one  teaspoon  allspice  berries  and  one-half  teaspoon 
peppercorns. 

Bring  to  the  boiling  point  and  let  simmer  until 
meat  is  tender.  Cool  in  water  in  which  it  has  been 
cooked,  take  from  water,  remove  skin  and  cover 
with  the  following  paste:  Mix  one  cup  soft  stale 
bread  crumbs,  one  cup  brown  sugar,  and  enough 
mustard  mixed  with  vinegar  to  hold  the  mixture 
together.  Pour  over  two  cups  cider  and  bake  in  a 
slow  oven  one  hour,  basting  every  ten  minutes. 


136  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

Roast  Ham,  Cider  Sauce 

Soak  a  twelve-pound  ham  several  hours,  or  over 
night,  in  cold  water  to  cover.  Wash  thoroughly, 
scrape  and  trim  off  hard  skin  near  end  of  bone. 
Put  in  a  kettle  with  one-half  cup,  each,  sliced  onion 
and  carrot,  two  sprigs  parsley,  one-half  bay  leaf, 
four  cloves  and  five  peppercorns.  Cover  with  cold 
water,  bring  slowly  to  boiling  point  and  let  simmer 
until  tender,  the  time  required  being  about  four  hours. 
After  two  hours  of  the  cooking,  add  one  quart  cider. 
Allow  ham  to  cool  in  liquor.  Remove  from  liquor, 
take  off  skin,  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  fine  bread 
crumbs.  Put  dashes  of  paprika  over  ham,  about 
every  two  inches,  and  insert  a  clove  in  centre  of 
each  dash.  Bake  one  hour  in  a  slow  oven.  Serve 
hot  with  Cider  Sauce  (see  p.  160). 

Frosted  Ham 

Remove  outside  skin  from  a  cold  boiled  ham  and 
trim  off  most  of  the  fat,  leaving  as  smooth  a  surface 
as  possible.  Rub  over  with  cracker  dust  (made  from 
hard  crackers,  rolled  and  put  through  a  fine  sieve) 
and  spread  with  Ornamental  Frosting.  Decorate 
with  Ornamental  Frosting  (colored  pink  and  green) 
forced  through  a  pastry  bag  and  tube.  Remove  to 
platter,  garnish  bone  with  paper  frill  and  bone 
end  with  silver  skewer  stuck  with  a  large  truffle 
between  two  pimolas.  Arrange  around  ham  a  border 
of  small  lettuce  leaves  and  watercress. 


PORK  137 

Sausages  a  la  Maitre  d'Hdtel 

Cut  apart  a  string  of  small  sausages  and  pierce 
each  several  times  with  a  fork.  Put  in  a  frying  pan, 
cover  with  boiling  water  and  cook  ten  minutes. 
Drain,  return  to  pan  and  fry  until  well  browned, 
turning  frequently.  Remove  to  hot  platter,  pour  over 
Maitre  d'Hotel  Butter  (see  The  Boston  Cooking- 
School  Cook  Book,  p.  273)  and  garnish  with  water- 
cress. 

Miss  Daniel's  Meat  Loaf 

1  pound  fresh  pork  1  cup  milk 

1  pound  veal  1  tablespoon  salt 

2  pounds  beef  Y%  teaspoon  pepper 

1  cup  bread  crumbs  3  eggs,  slightly  beaten 

Chop  meat  finely,  mix  and  add  remaining  ingre- 
dients in  order  given.  Shape  into  a  loaf,  put  in  pan 
and  lay  across  top  six  thin  slices  fat  salt  pork. 
Roast  in  a  hot  oven  one  and  one-half  hours,  basting 
every  ten  minutes,  at  first  with  one-half  cup  hot  water 
and  after  that  has  gone,  with  fat  in  pan.  Remove 
to  platter,  pour  around  tomato  or  brown  sauce 
and  garnish  with  parsley.  Many  think  one  small 
onion,  peeled  and  finely  chopped,  an  agreeable  addi- 
tion to  this  dish. 

German  Loaf 

1  pound  ham  1  teaspoon  pepper 

1  pound  fresh  pork  2  teaspoons  curry  powder 

1  clove  garlic  1  ^  tablespoons  sage 

1  small  onion  White  1  egg 

1  tablespoon  salt  K  cup  cream 


138  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

Force  ham,  pork,  garlic  and  onion  through  meat 
chopper.  Add  seasonings  and  again  force  through 
meat  chopper;  then  add  egg  white  and  cream  and 
mix  thoroughly.  Put  four  strips  of  uncooked  ham  fat 
on  centre  of  square  of  cheese-cloth,  press  mixture 
into  shape  and  place  over  fat.  Roll  in  cheese-cloth 
and  tie.  Place  on  trivet  in  kettle  and  add  three 
quarts  boiling  water,  one-fourth  cup  vinegar  and  one 
teaspoon  salt.  Cover  and  let  simmer  two  and  one- 
half  hours.  Drain,  cool  and  put  under  a  weight. 
Cut  in  thin  slices  for  serving. 


CHAPTER  XIII 

'       POULTRY 
Smothered  Chicken,  Swedish  Style 

T^\RESS,  clean  and  split  two  young,  small  broilers. 
*^  Sprinkle  inside  and  outside  with  salt  and  pepper, 
dredge  outside  sparingly  with  flour  and  fold  over. 
Heat  a  Scotch  kettle,  pour  in  one  cup  heavy  cream 
and  add  chickens.  Cook  until  chickens  are  well 
browned,  turning  frequently  and  adding  more  cream 
as  necessary.  Cover  and  cook  until  chickens  are 
tender  and  remove  to  hot  platter.  To  three  table- 
spoons fat  remaining  in  kettle  add  three  tablespoons 
flour  and  stir  until  well  blended;  then  pour  on 
gradually,  while  stirring  constantly,  one  and  one- 
half  cups  chicken  stock  and  one-half  cup  cream. 
Bring  to  the  boiling  point,  season  with  salt  and 
pepper  and  strain.  Pour  around  broilers  and  garnish 
with  parsley.  . 

Chicken  in  Casserole 

Dress  and  clean  a  young,  tender  fowl  and  cut  in 
pieces  for  serving.  Spread  with  one-third  cup  butter, 
put  in  a  casserole  and  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Pour  over  one  cup  boiling  water,  cover,  and  cook  un- 
til chicken  is  tender,  the  time  required  being  about 
one  hour.  Add  one  cup  cream  and  two  cups  fresh 


140  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

mushroom  caps,  broken  in  pieces.  Cook  ten  min- 
utes and  thicken  with  one  tablespoon  flour,  diluted 
with  two  tablespoons  water. 

Chicken  Paprika 

Dress,  clean  and  cut  two  chickens  in  pieces  for 
serving;  then  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper.  Cook 
four  and  one-half  tablespoons  butter  with  one-half 
onion  finely  chopped,  fifteen  minutes,  stirring  al- 
most constantly  to  prevent  burning.  Add  chicken, 
sprinkle  with  four  and  one-half  tablespoons  flour, 
mixed  and  sifted  with  one  teaspoon  paprika,  and 
pour  over  one  and  one-half  cups  chicken  stock. 
Bring  to  the  boiling  point  and  let  simmer  twenty 
minutes,  adding  more  chicken  stock  if  necessary. 
Remove  to  casserole  dish,  cover  and  cook  until 
chicken  is  tender. 

N  Delmonico's  Devilled  Chicken 

Wipe  a  chicken,  dressed  same  as  for  broiling, 
sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  place  in  a  well-greased 
broiler  and  broil  over  a  clear  fire  eight  minutes. 
Remove  to  pan  and  rub  over  with  the  following  mix- 
ture: Cream  four  tablespoons  butter  and  add  one 
teaspoon  made  mustard,  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  one 
teaspoon  vinegar  and  one-half  teaspoon  paprika. 
Sprinkle  with  three-fourths  cup  buttered,  soft  bread 
crumbs  and  bake  until  chicken  is  tender  and  crumbs 
are  browned. 


LITTLE  ROAST  YiG.  —  Page  133. 


MOULDED  JELLIED  CHICKEN.  —  Page  143. 


CANADIAN  MEAT  PIE.  —  Page  114. 


CHICKEN  PIE,  COUNTRY  STYLE.  —  Page  141. 


POULTRY  141 

Chicken  Pie,  Country  Style 

Dress,  clean  and  cut  up  two  fowls.  Put  in  a  stew- 
pan  with  one  onion,  cover  with  boiling  water,  bring 
to  the  boiling  point  and  let  simmer  until  meat  is 
tender.  When  half  cooked,  add  one-half  tablespoon 
salt  and  one-eighth  teaspoon  pepper.  Remove 
chicken,  strain  stock,  skim  off  fat,  return  to  stew- 
pan  and  let  simmer  until  reduced  to  four  cups. 
Thicken  stock  with  one-third  cup  flour,  diluted  with 
enough  cold  water  to  pour  easily.  When  boiling 
point  is  reached,  add  three  tablespoons  butter,  bit 
by  bit,  and  more  salt  if  necessary.  Place  a  small  cup 
in  the  centre  of  baking  dish,  arrange  pieces  of  chicken 
around  it  (removing  some  of  the  larger  bones)  and 
pour  over  gravy. 

Cover  with  a  baking  powder  crust  one-half  inch 
in  thickness  from  the  centre  of  which  a  circular 
piece  two  inches  in  diameter  has  been  removed. 
Roll  remaining  dough,  one-fourth  inch  in  thickness, 
in  rectangular  shape,  cut  in  thirds  lengthwise  and 
braid  strips.  Put  around  opening  in  crust,  and 
bake  in  a  hot  oven.  Remove  to  plate  and  arrange 
a  paper  collar  around  dish. 

Baking  Powder  Crust.  —  Mix  and  sift  three  cups 
bread  flour,  two  tablespoons  baking  powder  and  one 
and  one-half  teaspoons  salt.  Work  in  three  table- 
spoons each  butter  and  lard,  using  the  tips  of  the 
fingers;  then  add  one  and  one-fourth  cups  milk. 


142  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

Planked  Boned  Chicken 

Bone  a  chicken,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper, 
dredge  with  flour  and  dot  over  with  two  tablespoons 
butter.  Put  in  a  buttered  pan  and  bake  in  a  moder- 
ate oven  thirty-five  minutes.  Pipe  around  plank 
brushed  over  with  melted  butter,  a  border  of 
mashed  sweet  potatoes.  Put  chicken  on  plank  and 
bake  until  potato  is  re-heated  and  well  browned. 
Garnish  with  Saratoga  Potatoes  (see  The  Boston 
Cooking-School  Cook  Book,  p.  314),  Hominy  and 
Horseradish  Croquettes  (see  p.  41),  sauted  sliced 
mushroom  caps  and  sprig  of  parsley. 

Ambassadrice  Capon 

Dress,  clean,  stuff,  truss  and  roast  a  capon. 
Cut  a  slice  in  such  fashion  as  to  remove  wishbone, 
not  quite  cutting  off;  then  cut  around  second  joints 
at  body,  not  quite  cutting  off,  and  then  force  wings 
back.  Cut  breast  meat  in  slices.  Cut  as  many 
one-third-inch  slices  of  bread  as  there  are  slices  of 
breast  meat  and  shape  in  cutlet  forms;  spread  one 
side  with  pate-de-fois-gras  and  saute  in  butter. 
Place  bird  on  platter  and  arrange  around  bird, 
croutons  on  which  is  placed  breast  meat;  then 
garnish  each  with  a  circular  piece  of  truffle.  With 
a  sharp  knife  or  scissors  cut  out  breast  bone  and 
fill  cavity  with  cooked  asparagus  tips  or  stalks  sea- 
soned with  butter  and  salt. 

Garnish  with  parsley.    Serve  with  a  gravy  made 


-     POULTRY  143 

from  four  tablespoons  fat  remaining  in  pan,  four 
tablespoons  flour,  one  cup,  each,  chicken  stock  and 
cream,  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

Knickerbocker  Supreme  of  Chicken 

Remove  breast  meat  from  three  young  chickens 
and  trim  into  cutlet  shape.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and 
pepper,  dip  in  heavy  cream,  roll  in  flour  and  saute 
in  butter  until  delicately  browned.  Arrange  in  pan, 
dot  over  with  two  tablespoons  butter,  cover  with 
buttered  paper  and  bake  ten  minutes,  or  until  tender. 
Remove  to  cutlet-shaped  pieces  thinly  sliced  hot 
broiled  ham,  garnish  top  of  each  with  three  asparagus 
tips  and  pour  around  the  following  sauce:  Melt 
three  and  one-half  tablespoons  butter,  add  three  and 
one-half  tablespoons  flour  and  stir  until  well  blended; 
then  pour  on  gradually,  while  stirring  constantly, 
one  cup  chicken  stock  and  one-half  cup  cream; 
bring  to  the  boiling  point,  and  add  one-half  teaspoon 
salt,  one-eighth  teaspoon  paprika  and  the  yolk  one 
egg  slightly  beaten.  Sauted  mushroom  caps,  ar- 
ranged overlapping  one  another,  lengthwise  of  centre 
of  dish,  adds  to  the  attractive  appearance  of  this 
dish. 

Moulded  Jellied  Chicken 

Wipe  a  knuckle  of  veal,  put  in  soup  kettle,  cover 
with  cold  water  and  bring  to  boiling  point;  then  add 
a  six-pound  fowl,  and  cook  until  meat  is  tender,  add- 
ing, the  last  hour  of  cooking,  one  teaspoon  salt.  Re- 


144  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

move  fowl  and  put  aside  to  cool,  when  it  should  be 
cut  in  slices.  Force  lean  meat  from  veal  through 
meat  chopper;  there  should  be  one  and  one  half 
cups.  Let  stock  simmer  until  reduced  to  two  cups; 
then  add  one-fourth  teaspoon  salt,  one-eighth  tea- 
spoon pepper  and  a  few  drops  onion  juice;  cool  and 
clear. 

Add  to  veal  one  cup  stock  and  season  to  taste, 
with  salt,  paprika,  onion  and  lemon  juice.  When  well 
mixed  add  one  cup  celery,  cut  in  small  pieces. 

Place  a  bread  pan  in  pan  of  ice-water,  pour  in 
stock  one-eighth  inch  deep;  when  firm  decorate  with 
whites  and  yolks  of  hard-boiled  eggs,  canned  pi- 
mientoes,  cut  in  fancy  shapes,  and  fresh  mint  leaves. 
Add  remaining  stock  by  spoonfuls,  lest  the  decoration 
be  disarranged.  When  firm  add  alternate  layers  of 
veal  and  sliced  chicken  until  all  is  used.  Cover  top 
layer  with  buttered  paper;  on  this  place  pan  and 
weight.  Let  stand  for  several  hours  or  over  night  in 
ice  box.  Remove  from  pan  to  serving  dish  and  gar- 
nish with  cress. 

*  Chicken  a  la  Cadillac 

%  cup  cold,  cooked  chicken,  %  cup  cold,  cooked  ham, 

cut  in  cubes  cut  in  cubes 

1  cup  white  sauce 
Cooked  asparagus  stalks 

Heat  chicken  and  ham  cubes  in  sauce  and  put  in 
individual  casserole  dishes.  Arrange  short  stalks 
of  hot,  buttered  asparagus  on  each  dish. 


PLANKED  BONED  CHICKEN.  —  Page  142. 


AMBASSADRICE  CAPON.  —  Page  142. 


KNICKERBOCKER  SUPREME  OF  CHICKEN.  —  Page  143. 


CHICKEN  A  LA  CADILLAC.  —  Page  144. 


POULTRY  145 

Meat  Cakes 

1  cup  chopped,  cold,  cooked  meat        1  egg,  slightly  beaten 
(chicken,  turkey  or  lamb)  %  teaspoon  salt 

1  tablespoon  heavy  cream  Few  grains  pepper 

Mix  ingredients  in  order  given,  shape  in  small, 
flat  cakes,  dip  in  egg  and  crumbs,  and  saute  in  butter 
until  well  browned  on  both  sides.  Remove  to  hot 
platter  and  pour  around  one  cup  White  Sauce,  to 
which  %  has  been  added  (just  before  serving  time) 
one-third  cup  celery  cut  in  small  pieces. 

Turkey  Tetrazzini 

2  tablespoons  butter  Y2  cup  cooked  spaghetti,  cut  in 

3  tablespoons  flour  ^  inch  pieces 

1  cup  cream  ^  cup  sauted  sliced  mushroom 
1  teaspoon  salt  caps 

%  teaspoon  celery  salt  ^  cup  grated  Parmesan  cheese 

%  teaspoon  pepper  %  cup  buttered  cracker 
1  cup  cold  turkey  cut  in  crumbs 

^thin  strips 

Make  a  sauce  of  butter,  flour,  cream,  salt,  celery- 
salt  and  pepper.  When  boiling  point  is  reached,  add 
turkey,  spaghetti  and  mushrooms.  Fill  buttered 
ramekin  dishes  with  mixture,  sprinkle  with  cheese 
and  crumbs  and  bake  until  crumbs  are  brown. 


CHAPTER  XIV 

GAME 
Venison  Steak,  Port  Wine  Sauce 

WIPE  venison    steak,  place  on  a  well-greased 
broiler  and  broil  over  a  clear  fire.    Remove 
to  hot  platter,  pour  around  Port  Wine  Sauce  and 
garnish  with  parsley. 

Port  Wine  Sauce 

2  tablespoons  butter  2  tablespoons  butter 

3  tablespoons  currant  jelly      1  ^  tablespoons  cornstarch 
%  teaspoon  peppercorns         2  teaspoons  lemon  juice 

2  cloves  ]/2  teaspoon  salt 

Bit  of  stick  cinnamon  Few  grains  cayenne 

2  teaspoons  finely  chopped      34  cup  port  wine 

onion  13^  tablespoons  Maraschino 

1  cup  brown  stock  cherries 

12  slices  poached  beef  marrow 

Cook  butter  and  currant  jelly  three  minutes, 
stirring  constantly.  Add  peppercorns,  cloves,  cin- 
namon, onion,  port  wine  and  brown  stock  and  cook 
two  minutes.  Melt  butter,  add  cornstarch  and  stir 
until  well  blended;  then  pour  on  gradually,  while 
stirring  constantly,  the  hot  liquid.  Bring  to  the 
boiling  point  and  add  lemon  juice,  salt,  cayenne  and 
remaining  port  wine.  Strain,  reheat,  and  add  glaced 
cherries,  cut  in  halves,  and  marrow. 


GAME  147 

To  poach  Marrow.  —  Remove  marrow  from  mar- 
row bone  and  cut  in  one-half-inch  slices  crosswise. 
Put  in  boiling  salted  water,  cover  and  let  simmer 
eight  minutes. 

Rabbit  a  la  Southern 

Dress  and  clean  two  rabbits  and  disjoint  in  pieces 
for  serving.  Cover  with  three  pints  cold  water  to 
which  have  been  added  one  and  one-half  tablespoons 
salt  and  let  stand  three  hours.  Drain,  wipe,  sprinkle 
with  salt  and  pepper  and  roll  in  flour.  Try  out  one- 
half  pound  of  bacon  cut  in  pieces;  there  should 
be  two-thirds  cup  fat.  Put  in  iron  frying  pan,  add 
rabbit,  cover  and  cook  slowly  one  and  one-half 
hours,  turning  frequently.  Pour  over  one  cup  milk 
and  cook  thirty  minutes.  Remove  to  serving  dish 
and  garnish  with  parsley. 

Pigeon  Pie 

Dress,  clean  and  truss  six  pigeons  and  saute 
in  salt  pork  fat  until  entire  surface  is  seared,  turning 
frequently.  Put  in  a  kettle,  nearly  cover  with  boil- 
ing water  and  add  one-half  teaspoon  peppercorns, 
one  onion,  stuck  with  eight  cloves,  eight  slices  car- 
rot, two  sprigs  parsley  and  two  stalks  celery  and 
let  simmer  five  hours.  Remove  pigeons,  strain 
liquor  and  thicken  with  four  tablespoons  butter 
melted  and  cooked  with  three  tablespoons  flour. 
Reheat  pigeons  in  sauce,  arrange  in  a  pastry  case 
and  cover  with  a  pastry  top. 


148  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

Squabs  en  Casserole 

Dress,  clean  and  truss  three  jumbo  squabs.  Put 
in  casserole,  brush  over  with  melted  butter,  cover 
and  bake  ten  minutes.  Add  one-half  cup  chicken 
stock,  again  cover  and  cook  until  squabs  are  tender. 
Add  one  cup  boiled  potato  balls,  one  bunch  cooked 
asparagus  and  five  Bermuda  onions,  peeled,  cut  in 
one-fourth-inch  slices,  broiled  over  a  clear  fire  and 
then  brushed  over  with  melted  butter  and  sprinkled 
with  salt. 

Sauted  Quail  a  la  Moquin 

Dress,  clean  and  truss  six  quail.  Put  in  a  copper 
saucepan  one-half  cup  butter,  two  finely  chopped 
shallots,  two  cloves  garlic,  finely  chopped,  one-half 
bay  leaf,  one  teaspoon  peppercorns  and  two  cloves, 
and  cook,  stirring  constantly,  eight  minutes.  Saute 
quail  in  mixture  until  well  browned.  Pour  over 
one  pint  white  wine  and  let  simmer  thirty  minutes. 
Remove  quail,  strain  sauce  into  casserole  and  add 
slowly  one  pint  heavy  cream.  Season  with  one-half 
teaspoon  salt,  one-eighth  teaspoon  pepper,  a  few 
grains  cayenne  and  one  teaspoon  finely  cut  chives. 
Put  quail  in  casserole,  cover  and  heat  to  the  boiling 
point.  Serve  in  casserole. 

Larded  Stuffed  English  Partridge 
Cold  Orange  Sauce 

Clean,  stuff,  lard  and  truss  three  birds.  Put  in 
casserole  and  add  one-third  cup  trimmings  from 


LAUDED  BREASTS  OF  GUINEA  CHICKEN.  —  Page  149. 


SQUABS  EN  CASSEROLE.  —  Page  14S. 


GAME  149 

pork  cut  in  small  pieces.  Put  in  hot  oven  and  cook 
uncovered  fifteen  minutes,  basting  three  times,  using 
three  tablespoons  melted  butter.  Pour  ^ver  one- 
half  cup  Sherry  wine,  cover  and  cook  twenty-five 
minutes.  Remove  to  serving  dish  on  slices  of  toasted 
bread,  garnish  with  watercress  and  serve  with  Cold 
Orange  Sauce  (see  p.  160). 

Larded  Breasts  of  Guinea  Chicken 

Remove  breasts  from  bird,  leaving  wing  joints 
attached,  and  scrape  and  trim  bones.  Lard  upper 
side  of  breasts,  using  four  lardoons  to  each.  Put 
in  dripping  pan,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper, 
dredge  with  flour  and  brush  over  with  cream.  Bake 
in  a  hot  oven  thirty  minutes,  basting  three  times 
with  fat  in  pan.  Remove  to  thin  slices  of  hot,  fried 
or  broiled  ham  and  serve  with  Brown  Nut  Sauce 
(see  p.  155).  Put  frills  on  bones  and  garnish  with 
potato  balls  and  pastry  boats  filled  with  Asparagus 
Mousselaine. 

Game  Mousse,  Sauce  Bigarrade 

Force  one  pound  uncooked  duck  meat  through  a 
meat  chopper;  repeat,  and  add  gradually  the  whites 
of  two  eggs.  When  thoroughly  blended  rub  through 
a  sieve.  Add  heavy  cream  to  make  of  right  con- 
sistency, the  amount  required  being  about  two  cups. 
Season  with  salt,  cayenne  and  nutmeg.  Sprinkle 
a  buttered  mould  with  chopped  truffle,  pour  in 


150  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

mixture,  cover  with  buttered  paper,  set  in  pan  of 
hot  water  and  bake  until  firm.  Remove  from 
mould  to  serving  dish,  pour  around  Sauce  Bigarrade 
and  garnish  with  parsley. 

Sauce  Bigarrade.  —  After  breast  meat  has  been 
removed  from  one  pair  ducks,  put  remainder  of 
birds,  broken  in  pieces,  in  kettle;  cover  with  cold 
water  and  add  one-half  onion,  six  slices  carrot,  two 
sprigs  celery,  one  sprig  parsley,  bit  of  bay  leaf 
and  one-half  teaspoon  peppercorns.  Bring  to  the 
boiling  point  and  let  simmer  until  stock  is  reduced  to 
two  cups;  then  strain.  Melt  three  tablespoons  but- 
ter, add  three  tablespoons  flour  and  stir  until  well 
blended,  then  pour  on  gradually,  while  stirring  con- 
stantly, stock.  Again  bring  to  the  boiling  point 
and  season  with  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  one-eighth 
teaspoon  pepper  and  a  few  grains  paprika;  then  add 
one-third  cup  orange  juice,  one  tablespoon  lemon 
juice  and  the  rind  of  one-fourth  orange  (parboiled 
two  minutes  in  boiling  water,  freed  from  white  por- 
tion and  cut  in  Julienne-shaped  pieces). 


CHAPTER   XV 

STUFFINGS  FOR  GAME  AND  POULTRY 

Cracker  Stuffing 

3  cups  cracker  crumbs  1  %  cups  boiling  water 

J^  cup  melted  butter  Salt  and  pepper 

Poultry  seasoning  or  sage 

Add  water  to  butter  and  pour  over  crackers  to 
which  seasonings  have  been  added. 

New  England  Stuffing 

1  small  stale  baker's  loaf  1  egg 

Hot  water  Salt  and  pepper 

\i  cup  fat  salt  pork  Sage 

Remove  outside  crusts  from  bread.  Cut  bread  in 
slices  and  toast  until  delicately  browned;  then  put 
in  chopping  bowl  and  chop  while  adding  hot  water 
to  moisten.  Add  pork  finely  chopped,  egg  well 
beaten  and  seasonings  to  taste. 

Fall  River  Stuffing 

Put  turkey  giblets  in  saucepan  and  cover  with  one 
quart  cold  water.  Place  on  range  and  heat  gradu- 
ally until  boiling  point  is  reached;  then  let  simmer 


152  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

until  giblets  are  tender.  The  liver  will  cook  in 
less  time  than  the  heart  and  gizzard,  and  should 
be  removed  as  soon  as  done.  Split  and  spread 
sixteen  common  crackers  with  butter,  allowing  one- 
half  tablespoonful  to  each  half-cracker.  Pour 
over  crackers  two  and  three-fourths  cupfuls  of 
stock  in  which  giblets  were  cooked.  As  soon  as 
crackers  have  absorbed  stock,  add  giblets  chopped 
and  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper.  Summer  sav- 
ory, sage  or  marjoram  may  be  added  as  desired. 

Swedish  Stuffing 

2  cups  stale  bread  crumbs  1  teaspoon  salt 

26  cup  melted  butter  y%  teaspoon  pepper 

Yz  cup  raisins  seeded  3^2  teaspoon  sage 

3^  cup  English  walnut  meats 

Mix  ingredients  in  the  order  given;  raisins  should 
be  cut  in  pieces  and  nut  meats  broken  in  pieces. 

Bread  and  Celery  Stuffing 

33^  cups  baker's  stale  bread  ll/%  teaspoons  salt 

crumbs  34  teaspoon  pepper 

1  cup  boiling  water  %  cup  finely  cut  celery 

1  tablespoon  poultry  seasoning  Y%  cup  melted  butter 

Pour  water  over  bread  and  let  stand  twenty  min- 
utes; then  squeeze  out  all  the  water  that  is  possible. 
Add  remaining  ingredients  and  mix  thoroughly. 

Oyster  Stuffing 

\Y%  cups  stale  bread  crumbs  34  cup  oyster  liquor 

13^  cups  cracker  crumbs  23^  teaspoons  salt 

y<i  cup  melted  butter  3^  teaspoon  pepper 

1  pint  oysters  M  teaspoon  mace 


STUFFINGS  FOR  GAME  AND  POULTRY      153 

Mix  bread  and  cracker  crumbs  and  add  melted 
butter,  oysters  washed  and  bearded,  oyster  liquor  and 
seasonings.  To  beard  oysters  remove  and  discard 
tough  muscles. 

Sausage  Stuffing  (for  Turkey) 

1  small  onion  %  teaspoon  pepper 

2  tablespoons  butter  ^  teaspoon  powdered  thyme 
Y?.  pound  sausage  meat            2  teaspoons  parsley,  finely 

4  dozen  French  chestnuts  chopped 

2  teaspoons  salt  2  ounces  fresh  bread  crumbs 

Finely  chop  onion  and  cook  in  butter  three  minutes; 
then  add  sausage  meat  and  cook  five  minutes.  Boil 
chestnuts  and  mash  one-half.  Add  to  first  mixture 
with  remaining  ingredients,  and  when  thoroughly 
blended  add  whole  chestnuts. 

Potato  Stuffing 

2  cups  hot  mashed  potato  Giblets 

2  cups  cracker  crumbs  Hot  water 

l/$  cup  melted  butter  Salt  and  pepper 

%  cup  sausage  fat  Sage 

Mix  first  four  ingredients  in  the  order  given.  Add 
one-half  cup  giblets,  cooked  and  finely  chopped. 
Moisten  with  hot  water  and  add  seasonings  to  taste. 


M*. 


CHAPTER  XVI 
MEAT  AND  FISH  SAUCES 
Allemande  Sauce 

LT  three  tablespoons  butter,  add  three 
tablespoons  flour  and  stir  until  well  blended; 
then  pour  on  gradually,  while  stirring  constantly, 
one-half  cup  chicken  and  one-half  cup  cream. 
Bring  to  the  boiling  point  and  add  three  tablespoons 
grated  Parmesan  cheese,  the  yolk  of  one  egg,  one- 
half  teaspoon  salt  and  a  few  grains  pepper. 

v    Spanish  Sauce 

3  tablespoons  butter  ^  cup  cream 

3  tablespoons  flour  1  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  milk  y%  teaspoon  pepper 

%  cup  pimiento  puree 

Melt  butter,  add  flour  and  stir  until  well  blended; 
then  pour  on  gradually,  while  stirring  constantly, 
milk  and  cream.  Bring  to  the  boiling  point  and  add 
seasonings  and  pimiento  puree. 

To  obtain  pimiento  puree,  drain  canned  pimien- 
toes  and  force  through  a  puree  strainer. 

Truffle  Sauce 

Melt  three  tablespoons  butter,  add  three  table- 
spoons flour  and  stir  until  well  blended;  then  pour 


MEAT  AND  FISH  SAUCES  155 

on  gradually,  while  stirring  constantly,  one  cup  milk 
and  one-half  cup  cream.  Bring  to  the  boiling  point 
and  add  one  and  one-half  tablespoons  chopped 
truffles,  two  tablespoons  Madeira  wine  and  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste. 

Waldorf  Sauce 

Melt  three  tablespoons  butter,  add  three  table- 
spoons flour  and  stir  until  well  blended ;  then  pour  on 
gradually,  while  stirring  constantly,  one  and  one-half 
cups  chicken  stock.  Bring  to  the  boiling  point,  add 
one-half  tablespoon  beef  extract  and  two  tablespoons 
chopped  truffles.  Season  with  one-fourth  teaspoon 
salt  and  a  few  grains  pepper. 

Bread  Sauce 

Cook  one  and  one-fourth  cups  milk  in  double 
boiler  with  one-third  cup  fine,  stale  bread  crumbs 
and  one  onion,  stuck  with  five  cloves,  twenty-five 
minutes.  Remove  onion,  add  one  and  one-half  table- 
spoons butter,  one-half  teaspoon  salt  and  a  few 
grains  cayenne.  Sprinkle  with  one-half  cup  coarse, 
stale  bread  crumbs,  browned  in  one  and  one-Half 
tablespoons  butter. 

Brown  Nut  Sauce 

2  tablespoons  butter  Y^  teaspoon  salt 

2  tablespoons  peanut  butter  Few  grains  peppej: 

33^  tablespoons  flour  %  cup  coarse  bread  crumbs 

\Y^  cups  chicken  stock  1  tablespoon  butter 


156  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

Brown  butter,  add  peanut  butter  and  when  well 
mixed  add  flour  and  continue  the  browning;  then 
pour  on  gradually,  while  stirring  constantly,  chicken 
stock.  Bring  to  the  boiling  point  and  add  salt  and 
pepper.  Pour  around  meat  with  which  it  is  to  be 
served  and  sprinkle  with  bread  crumbs  browned  in 
one  tablespoon  butter. 

Epicurean  Sauce 

YL  cup  heavy  cream  1  tablespoon  tarragon  vinegar 

3  tablespoons  Mayonnaise  1  teaspoon  English  mustard 

Dressing  Yz  teaspoon  salt 

2  tablespoons  grated  Few  grains  cayenne 

horseradish  root 

Beat  cream  until  stiff,  using  a  Dover  Egg  Beater. 
Remove  beater  and  stir  in  remaining  ingredients. 

Mock  Hollandaise  Sauce 

2  tablespoons  butter  Ys  teaspoon  pepper 

2  tablespoons  flour  Few  grains  cayenne 

^  cup  milk  Yolks  2  eggs 

YL  tablespoon  salt  Yi  cup  butter 

1  tablespoon  lemon  juice 

Melt  butter,  add  flour  and  stir  until  well  blended; 
then  add  milk,  salt,  pepper  and  cayenne,  and  bring 
to  the  boiling  point.  Stir  in  the  egg  yolks,  butter 
bit  by  bit,  and  lemon  juice. 


Horseradish  Hollandaise 


Yz  cup  butter  ^  teaspoon  salt 

Yolks  3  eggs  4  tablespoons  grated 

YL  tablespoon  vinegar  horseradish  root 

2  tablespoons  heavy  cream 


MEAT  AND  FISH  SAUCES  157 

Wash  butter  and  divide  in  thirds.  Put  one-third 
in  small  saucepan  with  egg  yolks,  vinegar  and  salt. 
Place  saucepan  in  larger  saucepan  containing  boiling 
water,  and  stir  constantly  until  butter  is  melted; 
then  add  second  piece  of  butter  and,  as  mixture 
thickens,  third  piece.  Remove  from  fire  and  add 
grated  horseradish  root,  and  heavy  cream,  beaten 
until  stiff. 

/  Cucumber  Hollandaise 

4  tablespoons  white  tarragon  %  cup  washed  butter 

vinegar  ^  teaspoon  salt 

1  red  pepper  Few  grains  cayenne 

Yolks  5  eggs  2  cucumbers 

Cook  vinegar  with  pepper  (one  of  the  small  ones 
found  in  pepper  sauce)  until  reduced  to  two  table- 
spoons. Strain  into  saucepan,  add  egg  yolks  and 
one-third  of  the  butter  and  stir  constantly  until 
mixture  becomes  heated,  holding  saucepan  over 
boiling  water  in  larger  saucepan,  placed  on  range. 
When  butter  is  melted  and  mixture  begins  to  thicken, 
add  remaining  butter  in  pieces,  continuing  the  stir- 
ring. Add  seasonings  and  cucumbers  pared,  chopped 
and  drained  from  their  liquor,  then  squeezed  in 
cheese-cloth. 

Sauce  Bearnaise  I 

To  three  finely  chopped  shallots  add  two  table- 
spoons tarragon  vinegar;  bring  to  the  boiling  point 
and  let  simmer  until  reduced  one-half.  Strain,  add 


158  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

gradually  to  two  egg  yolks,  slightly  beaten,  and 
cook  slowly,  while  stirring  constantly,  four  minutes; 
then  add  five  tablespoons  melted  butter,  one-fourth 
teaspoon  salt,  one-eighth  teaspoon  cayenne  and  one- 
half  teaspoon  finely  chopped  parsley. 

Sauce  Bearnaise  II 

3  tablespoons  water  Yolks  4  eggs 

3  tablespoons  tarragon  vinegar          }/%  teaspoon  salt 
^  onion  %  teaspoon  paprika 

4  tablespoons  butter 

Put  water,  vinegar  and  onion  in  small  saucepan 
and  heat  to  boiling-point.  Beat  yolks  of  eggs  slightly 
and  pour  on  gradually  hot  liquid,  from  which  onion 
has  been  removed ;  then  add  seasonings.  Place  sauce- 
pan in  larger  saucepan,  containing  boiling  water,  and 
cook,  stirring  constantly,  until  mixture  thickens 
slightly;  then  add  butter  which  has  been  worked 
until  creamy,  one  tablespoon  at  a  time,  stirring  con- 
stantly during  the  entire  cooking. 

Mousselaine  Sauce 

3  tablespoons  butter  %  teaspoon  salt 

3  tablespoons  flour  Few  grains  pepper 

1  cup  chicken  stock  Yolks  2  eggs 

YZ  cup  cream  }/%  tablespoon  lemon  juice 

Melt  butter,  add  flour  and  stir  until  well  blended; 
then  pour  on  gradually,  while  stirring  constantly, 
stock  and  cream.  Bring  to  the  boiling  point  and  add 
salt  and  pepper.  Just  before  serving  add  egg  yolks, 
slightly  beaten,  and  lemon  juice. 


MEAT  AND  FISH  SAUCES  159 

Vinaigrette  Sauce 

Mix  one  teaspoon  salt,  one-fourth  teaspoon  paprika, 
a  few  grains  pepper,  one  tablespoon  tarragon  vinegar, 
two  tablespoons  cider  vinegar,  six  tablespoons  olive 
oil,  one  tablespoon,  each,  chopped  green  pepper  and 
cucumber  pickle  and  one  teaspoon  finely  chopped 
parsley. 

Guaymas  Sauce 

To  one-half  cup  tomato  sauce  add,  just  before 
serving,  one-third  cup  Mayonnaise  Dressing  and 
three  tablespoons  shredded  olives. 

Devonshire  Sauce 

To  one  and  one-half  cups  brown  sauce  add  one- 
third  cup  currant  jelly,  beaten  with  a  fork,  one-half 
cup  claret  wine,  one  teaspoon  lemon  juice  and  three 
drops  essence  of  anchovy. 

Roe  Sauce 

Put  two  tablespoons,  each,  Sherry  wine,  white  wine 
and  butter  in  small  shallow  pan  and  add  one-half 
shad  roe  sprinkled  with  salt,  pepper,  cayenne  and  a 
few  gratings  nutmeg.  Cover  with  buttered  paper 
and  bake  thirty  minutes.  Take  from  oven  and 
remove  membranes.  Brown  three  tablespoons 
butter,  add  two  tablespoons  flour  and  continue 
the  browning;  then  pour  on  gradually,  while  stirring 
constantly,  one  cup  chicken  stock.  Bring  to  the 
boiling  point  and  add  one-fourth  teaspoon  beef 
extract,  roe  and  one-fourth  teaspoon  salt. 


160  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

Cold  Orange  Sauce 

6  tablespoons  currant  jelly        2  tablespoons  lemon  juice 
3  tablespoons  sugar  2  tablespoons  Port  wine 

Grated  rind  2  oranges  J€  teaspoon  salt 

2  tablespoons  orange  juice         %  teaspoon  cayenne 

Put  first  three  ingredients  in  a  bowl  and  beat 
for  five  minutes;  then  add  remaining  ingredients 
and  stir  until  well  blended. 

Currant  Mint  Sauce 

Separate  one-half  tumbler  currant  jelly  in  small 
pieces,  but  do  not  beat  it.  Add  one  and  one-fourth 
tablespoons  finely  chopped  fresh  mint  leaves  and 
thin,  short  shavings  from  one-fourth  the  rind  of  an 
.orange.  Cider  Sauce 

3  tablespoons  butter  2  cups  ham  liquor 

4  tablespoons  flour  4  tablespoons  cider 

Salt 

Melt  butter,  add  flour,  and  pour  on  gradually, 
while  stirring  constantly,  hot  ham  liquor.  Bring 
to  the  boiling  point  and  add  cider,  and  salt  to  taste. 

Sauce  Verte 

2  tablespoons  butter  Y^  teaspoon  salt 

3  tablespoons  flour  Few  grains  pepper 
1  cup  fish  stock                                Few  grains  cayenne 

%  cup  heavy  cream  2  tablespoons  sauterne 

Green  coloring 

Melt  butter,  add  flour  and  stir  until  well  blended; 
then  pour  on  stock  gradually  while  stirring  con- 
stantly. Bring  to  the  boiling  point  and  add  cream 
and  seasonings.  Again  bring  to  the  boiling  point 
,and  color  green. 


CHAPTER    XVII 


VEGETABLES 

French  Artichokes,  Vinaigrette  Sauce 

T I  TRIM  tops  and  wash  French  artichokes.  Cook 
-••  in  boiling,  salted  water  to  cover  until  soft. 
Remove  from  water,  drain,  and  separate  the  scales 
of  each,  so  as  to  represent  a  flower.  Serve  with 
Vinaigrette  Sauce  (see  p.  159). 

Jerusalem  Artichokes 

Wash  and  pare  one  quart  Jerusalem  artichokes 
and  cook  in  boiling,  salted  water  until  soft.  Drain, 
add  one-fourth  cup  butter,  two  tablespoons  lemon 
juice,  two  tablespoons  finely  chopped  parsley, 
one-half  teaspoon  salt,  and  a  few  grains  cayenne. 
Cook  three  minutes  and  serve  very  hot. 

Arlington  Asparagus 

Arrange  boiled  asparagus  stalks  through  rings 
(one-third  inch  wide)  cut  from  peel  of  a  lemon. 
Place  on  oblong  pieces  of  buttered  toast  (from  which 
crusts  have  been  removed),  moistened  with  water 
in  which  asparagus  was  cooked.  Brush  lemon  rings 


162  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

with  melted  butter;  place  in  oven  to  re-heat  aspara- 
gus and  arrange  on  serving  dish. 

Asparagus  Mousselaine 

Arrange  short  stalks  of  cooked  asparagus  in 
individual  baking  dishes,  allowing  eight  to  each 
portion,  and  pour  over  Mousselaine  Sauce  (see  p.  158). 

Lima  Beans  Fermiere 

Soak  two  cups  dried  lima  beans  over  night  in  cold 
water  to  cover.  Drain,  put  in  a  casserole  dish,  and 
sprinkle  with  one-half  teaspoon  salt  and  one-eighth 
teaspoon  pepper.  Cut  a  two-inch  cube  of  fat  salt 
pork  in  small  pieces,  try  out,  and  strain.  To  fat 
add  one  small  onion,  thinly  sliced,  and  one-half  cup 
one-third-inch  carrot  cubes  and  stir  constantly 
until  vegetables  are  browned.  Add  to  beans,  dot 
over  with  two  tablespoons  butter  and  add  water 
to  half  the  height  of  the  beans.  Cover  and  cook 
in  a  slow  oven  until  beans  are  soft. 

Brussels  Sprouts  with  Celery 

Remove  wilted  leaves  from  one  quart  Brussels 
sprouts  and  soak  in  cold  water  fifteen  minutes. 
Drain  and  cook  in  boiling,  salted  water  twenty 
minutes,  or  until  easily  pierced  with  a  skewer;  again 
drain.  Wash  celery  and  cut  in  small  pieces;  there 
should  be  one  and  one-half  cups.  Melt  three  table- 
spoons butter,  add  celery,  and  cook  two  minutes, 


FRENCH  ARTICHOKE,  VINAIGRETTE  SAUCE.  —  Page  Kil. 


PEPPERS  STUFFED  WITH  FRESH  GREEN  CORN. —  Page  173. 


ARLINGTON  ASPARAGUS.  —  Page  161. 


ASPARAGUS,  MOUSSKLAINE  SAUCE.  —  Page  162. 


VEGETABLES  163 

i 

then  add  three  tablespoons  flour  and  pour  on  gradu- 
ally one  and  one-half  cups  scalded  milk.  Bring  to  the 
boiling  point,  add  sprouts,  season  with  salt  and  pepper 
and  serve  as  soon  as  sprouts  are  re-heated. 

Brussels  Sprouts  with  Chestnuts 

Pick  over  one  quart  Brussels  sprouts,  remove 
wilted  leaves  and  soak  in  cold  water  to  cover, 
to  which  has  been  added  one-eighth  teaspoon  soda. 
Drain  and  cook  in  boiling,  salted  water  to  cover,  until 
soft.  Drain  and  saute  in  three  tablespoons  butter. 

Remove  shells  from  French  chestnuts  and  cook 
in  boiling,  salted  water  to  cover  until  soft;  there 
should  be  one  cup.  Cook  one-fourth  cup  butter 
with  two  teaspoons  sugar  until  well  browned,  stirring 
constantly.  Add  chestnuts  and  cook  until  chestnuts 
are  browned;  then  add  sauted  sprouts,  one-third 
cup  brown  stock,  one-half  teaspoon  beef  extract, 
one-half  teaspoon  salt,  a  few  grains  cayenne,  and 
two  tablespoons  brandy. 

Smothered  Cabbage 

Takeoff  outside  wilted  leaves  from  a  firm,  medium- 
sized  cabbage,  cut  in  quarters  and  remove  tough 
centre  portion;  then  finely  chop  or  force  through  a 
meat  chopper;  there  should  be  five  cups.  Melt 
five  tablespoons  butter  in  hot  iron  frying  pan, 
add  two  tablespoons  flour  and  stir  until  well  blended; 
then  pour  on  gradually,  while  stirring  constantly, 
one  cup  milk.  Bring  to  the  boiling  point  and  add 


164  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

two  teaspoons  salt,  one-fourth  teaspoon  pepper, 
and  cabbage.  Mix  thoroughly,  cover,  put  on  back  of 
range  and  cook  slowly  from  fifty  to  sixty  minutes. 

•^  Mint  Glazed  Carrots  with  Peas 

Scrape  three  medium-sized  carrots,  cut  in  one- 
fourth-inch  slices,  then  in  strips  or  fancy  shapes,  us- 
ing French  vegetable  cutters.  Cook  in  boiling,  salted 
water  fifteen  minutes  and  drain.  Put  in  saucepan 
with  one-half  cup  butter,  one-half  cup  sugar  and  one 
tablespoon  chopped  fresh  mint  leaves.  Cook  slowly 
until  soft  and  glazed.  Drain  and  rinse  thoroughly 
one  can  French  peas.  Cook  ten  minutes  in  boiling 
water  to  cover,  drain,  and  season  with  butter,  salt, 
and  pepper.  Turn  peas  on  hot  serving  dish  and  sur- 
round with  carrots. 


i 


Carrot  Timbales 


Wash  and  scrape  carrots.  Cut  off  the  deepest- 
colored  portion  in  thin  slices,  lengthwise  of  vege- 
tables, and  fill  a  quart  measure  packed  solidly. 
Cook  in  two  tablespoons  butter  ten  minutes,  stirring 
constantly;  then  cover  with  boiling  water  or  stock 
and  cook  until  soft.  Drain  and  force  through  a 
puree  strainer.  Add  two  whole  eggs  and  one  egg  yolk 
slightly  beaten,  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Fill  buttered  timbale  moulds  (garnished  with  hard- 
boiled  egg,  cut  in  fancy  shapes)  two-thirds  full,  set 
in  pan  of  hot  water,  cover  with  buttered  paper  and 
bake  fifteen  minutes. 


VEGETABLES  165 

Cauliflower  Allemande 

Remove  leaves,  cut  off  stalk,  and  soak  a  cauliflower 
thirty  minutes  (head  down)  in  cold  water  to  cover. 
Cook  (head  up)  twenty-five  minutes,  or  until  soft, 
in  boiling,  salted  water  to  cover.  Drain,  place  in  a 
baking  dish,  cover  with  sauce,  sprinkle  with  one- 
fourth  cup  grated  Parmesan  cheese  and  bake  until 
cheese  is  melted.  For  the  sauce:  Melt  two  table- 
spoons butter,  add  two  tablespoons  flour  and  stir  until 
well  blended;  then  pour  on  gradually,  while  stirring 
constantly,  one  cup  chicken  stock.  Bring  to  the 
boiling  point  and  add  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  few 
grains  pepper,  yolks  two  eggs  (slightly  beaten)  f 
and  one-half  cup  grated  Parmesan  cheese. 

Cauliflower  Mousselaine 

Drain  a  cooked  cauliflower,  separate  into  flowerets, 
and  pour  over  the  following  sauce:  Mix  the  yolks 
of  two  eggs,  slightly  beaten,  one-fourth  cup  cream, 
one-half  teaspoon  salt,  one-eighth  teaspoon  nutmeg, 
and  the  juice  of  one-half  lemon.  Cook  in  double 
boiler,  stirring  constantly,  until  mixture  thickens. 
Add  two  tablespoons  butter,  bit  by  bit,  and  when  but- 
ter is  melted,  pour  over  cauliflower  at  once. 

Cauliflower  Polonaise 

Remove  leaves  from  cauliflower,  cut  off  stalk,  and 
soak  thirty  minutes  (head  down)  in  cold  water  to 
cover.  Cook  (head  up)  twenty-five  minutes  or  until 


166  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

tender  in  one  quart  boiling  water  to  which  have 
been  added  one  pint  milk  and  one  tablespoon  salt. 
Drain,  place  on  a  hot  serving  dish,  sprinkle  with  the 
yolks  of  two  hard-boiled  eggs,  forced  through  a 
puree  strainer,  and  mixed  with  one  tablespoon  finely 
chopped  parsley  and  one-third  cup  coarse  bread 
crumbs  cooked  in  butter  until  delicately  browned. 

Swiss  Chard 

Pick  over,  wash,  and  drain  one  peck  Swiss  chard. 
Cook  twenty-five  minutes  in  two  quarts  boiling 
water,  to  which  has  been  added  one  tablespoon  salt. 
Drain,  re-heat,  and  season  with  butter,  salt,  and  pep- 
per. Serve  with  vinegar. 

Escalloped  Corn 

1  small  green  pepper  Few  grains  cayenne 
Y%  onion,  finely  chopped  H  cup  milk 

2  tablespoons  butter  1  cup  canned  corn 
2  tablespoons  flour  Yolk  1  egg 

1  teaspoon  salt  3^  cup  dried  bread 

%  teaspoon  paprika  1  tablespoon  butter 

34  teaspoon  mustard  %  cup  buttered  cracker 

crumbs 

Wipe  pepper,  cut  in  halves,  lengthwise,  and  remove 
seeds;  then  cut  in  strips,  and  strips  in  halves,  cross- 
wise. Cook  pepper,  onion,  and  butter  five  minutes, 
stirring  constantly.  Add  flour,  mixed  with  seasonings, 
and  stir  until  well  blended;  then  pour  on  gradually, 
while  stirring  constantly,  milk;  bring  to  the  boiling 
point  and  add  corn,  egg  yolk,  and  bread  broken  in 


VEGETABLES  167 

small  pieces  and  cooked  with  one  tablespoon  butter 
until  well  browned.  Turn  into  a  buttered  baking 
dish,  cover  with  buttered  crumbs  and  bake  in  a  hot 
oven  until  crumbs  are  brown. 

I 
Richmond  Corn  Cakes 

%  cup  canned  corn  ^  cup  flour 

%  cup  milk  1  tablespoon  baking 

l/2  tablespoon  sugar  powder 

2  eggs  }/2  teaspoon  salt 

To  corn  add  milk,  sugar,  and  egg  well  beaten. 
Mix  and  sift  flour,  baking  powder,  and  salt.  Combine 
mixtures,  drop  by  tablespoons  in  buttered  muffin 
rings  set  in  a  buttered  dripping  pan,  and  bake  in 
a  moderate  oven.  A  delicious  accompaniment  to 
roast  beef. 

Corn  Toast 

\i  tablespoon  finely  chopped  1  pint  heavy  cream 

onion  ^  teaspoon  salt 

1^  tablespoons  butter  %  teaspoon  paprika 

1  cup  canned  corn  6  slices  toasted  bread 

Cook  onion  with  butter  two  minutes,  stirring  con- 
stantly. Add  corn,  cream,  and  seasonings,  bring  to 
the  boiling  .point  and  let  simmer  five  minutes. 
Pour  over  toast  (from  which  crusts  have  been  re- 
moved), garnish  with  toast  points,  and  serve  at  once. 

Corn  Oysters 

1  can  corn  2  tablespoons  milk 

1 Y^  teaspoons  salt  %  cup  cracker  crumbs 

Y%  teaspoon  pepper  1  egg,  well  beaten 


168  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

Put  corn  in  saucepan,  let  stand  one-half  hour, 
bring  to  the  boiling  point  and  let  simmer  fifteen 
minutes.  Add  remaining  ingredients  and  drop  by 
spoonfuls  on  a  hot  iron  fryingpan,  which  contains 
a  small  quantity  of  bacon  fat.  Brown  on  one  side, 
turn  and  brown  other  side. 

Corn  Souffle 

1  can  corn  1  cup  milk 

1  tablespoon  butter  1}£  teaspoons  salt 

2  tablespoons  flour  Few  grains  pepper 

2  eggs 

Melt  butter,  add  flour  and  pour  on  gradually  milk; 
bring  to  the  boiling  point,  add  corn,  seasonings,  yolks 
of  eggs,  beaten  until  thick  and  lemon-colored,  and 
whites  of  eggs,  beaten  until  stiff  and  dry.  Turn  into 
a  buttered  dish  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  from 
twenty-five  to  thirty  minutes. 

x  Baked  Stuffed  Cucumbers 

Wipe  and  peel  cucumbers,  cut  in  two-inch  pieces, 
crosswise,  removing  seeds.  Mix  four  tablespoons 
bread  crumbs,  two  tablespoons  finely  chopped  cooked 
ham,  and  two  tablespoons  grated  Parmesan  cheese. 
Moisten  with  tomato  sauce,  and  season  with  salt, 
pepper,  and  cayenne.  Put  cucumber  cups  in  shallow 
pan,  fill  with  mixture,  surround  with  chicken  stock 
and  bake  thirty  minutes.  Remove,  cover  with 
buttered  bread  crumbs  and  bake  until  crumbs  are 
brown. 


VEGETABLES  169 

/  Cucumber  Jelly 

2  cups  chicken  stock  2  cucumbers 

1  slice  onion  1^  tablespoons  granulated 

1  sprig  parsley  gelatine 

Green  coloring 

To  chicken  stock  add  onion,  parsley  and  cucum- 
bers, pared  and  grated.  Cover  and  let  stand  two 
hours.  *  Heat  gradually  to  the  boiling  point,  add 
gelatine,  and  color  green.  Let  stand  until  nearly 
cold;  then  strain  into  individual  paper  cases,  in  the 
bottom  of  each  of  which  is  a  slice  of  cucumber. 
Garnish  tops  with  Mayonnaise  Dressing  and  halves 
of  blanched  Jordan  almonds. 

Baked  Egg  Plant 

Pare  an  egg  plant,  cut  in  one-fourth-inch  slices, 
crosswise,  and  soak,  in  cold  water  to  cover,  two 
hours.  Drain  and  cook  in  boiling,  salted  water  to 
cover  until  soft.  Again  drain  and  mash;  then  add 
one-fourth  cup  butter,  one-half  cup  stale  bread 
crumbs,  two  eggs,  well  beaten,  a  few  drops  onion 
juice,  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  and  one-eighth  teaspoon 
pepper.  Line  buttered  Dario  or  individual  moulds 
with  canned  pimientes  (drained  and  dried).  Fill  with 
egg  plant  mixture,  sprinkle  with  buttered  crumbs, 
and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  fifteen  minutes.  Remove 
from  moulds  and  garnish  with  sprigs  of  parsley. 

Baked  Stuffed  Egg  Plant 

Wipe  egg  plant  and  cut  in  quarters,  lengthwise. 
Remove  pulp  close  to  skin,  leaving  thin  shells. 


170  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

Force  pulp  through  a  meat  chopper  and  drain; 
there  should  be  two  and  two-thirds  cups.  Put  in  a 
saucepan,  add  one  and  one-half  cups  ham  stock, 
bring  to  the  boiling  point  and  let  boil  twenty  min- 
utes. Add  three-fourths  cup  coarse,  dried  bread 
crumbs,  one-fourth  cup  melted  butter,  one  teaspoon 
lemon  juice,  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  and  one  egg, 
slightly  beaten.  Fill  shells  with  mixture,  sprinkle 
with  buttered  crumbs,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  fifteen 
minutes. 

Egg  Plant  Turque 

Wipe  three  small  egg  plants,  cut  in  halves,  length- 
wise, fry  in  deep  fat  twelve  minutes  and  drain. 
Scoop  out  inside  and  finely  chop.  Put  two  table- 
spoons olive  oil  in  saucepan,  and  when  heated  add 
one  tablespoon  finely  chopped  onion,  and  cook 
five  minutes.  Add  three  tablespoons  uncooked  rice, 
and  one-half  clove  of  garlic,  finely  chopped,  and  cook 
five  minutes;  then  add  chopped  egg  plant,  one  cup 
tomato  sauce,  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  and  one-fourth 
teaspoon  grated  nutmeg.  Turn  into  a  buttered  dish 
and  bake  forty-five  minutes.  Add  yolks  two  eggs, 
slightly  beaten,  and  stuff  egg  plant  shells  with  mix- 
ture. Cover  with  buttered  crumbs  and  bake  until 
crumbs  are  brown. 

Creamed  Mushrooms 

1  pound  mushrooms  Few  grains  pepper 

5  tablespoons  butter  1 Y^  tablespoons  flour 

Yz  teaspoon  salt  H  cup  thin  cream 


VEGETABLES  171 

Clean  mushrooms,  remove  caps,  and  cut  both 
stems  and  caps  in  thin  slices.  Melt  butter,  add 
sliced  mushrooms  and  cook  three  minutes.  Sprinkle 
with  salt  and  pepper,  dredge  with  flour  and  pour 
over  cream.  Cook  five  minutes,  stirring  constantly. 

Mushroom  and  Tomato  Toast 

Cut  stale  bread  in  one-third-inch  slices,  shape  with 
a  large  round  cutter  and  saute  in  butter  until  deli- 
cately browned.  Wipe  mushrooms  and  cut  in  pieces; 
there  should  be  two  cups;  then  cook  in  two  table- 
spoons butter  five  minutes.  Cook  one  tablespoon 
butter  and  one-half  teaspoon  finely  chopped  shallot 
three  minutes.  Add  one  cup  tomato  puree,  bring  to 
the  boiling  point  and  let  simmer  three  minutes; 
then  add  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  one-eighth  tea- 
spoon pepper,  and  a  few  grains  paprika.  Arrange 
mushrooms  on  six  rounds  of  bread,  pour  over  tomato, 
and  sprinkle  with  one  tablespoon  finely  chopped 
parsley. 

Creamed  Silver  Skins 

Peel  three  cups  small  silver  skinned  onions  and 
cook  in  boiling,  salted  water  to  cover,  fifteen  minutes. 
Drain,  add  one  cup  thin  cream,  and  cook  in  double 
boiler  until  soft,  adding  three-fourths  teaspoon  salt 
the  last  ten  minutes  of  the  cooking. 

J  Onion  Souffle 

Cook  onions  in  boiling  salted,  water  until  soft,  drain 
and  force  through  a  sieve;  there  should  be  one  and 


172  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

one-fourth  cups  onion  pulp.  Melt  four  tablespoons 
butter,  add  four  tablespoons  flour,  and  pour  on  grad- 
ually one-third  cup  water  in  which  onions  have  been 
cooked  and  one-third  cup  cream;  then  add  onion 
pulp  and  bring  to  the  boiling  point.  Season  with 
salt  and  pepper.  Beat  yolks  of  three  eggs  until  thick 
and  lemon-colored  and  add  to  first  mixture.  Cut 
and  fold  in  whites  of  eggs  beaten  until  stiff  and  dry. 
Turn  into  a  buttered  baking  dish  and  bake  twenty- 
five  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven.  Serve  at  once. 

Onion  Farci 

Peel  six  large  Bermuda  onions  and  remove  a  part 
of  the  inside.  Put  in  saucepan,  cover  with  boiling 
water  and  let  boil  six  minutes.  Drain,  and  stuff  with 
veal  forcemeat.  Place  onions  in  pan  on  six  thin 
slices  fat  salt  pork,  pour  around  one  cup  brown  or 
chicken  stock  and  bake  until  onions  are  soft;  the 
time  required  being  about  thirty-five  minutes.' 
Remove  onions  to  serving  dish,  strain  stock,  skim 
off  all  fat  that  is  possible,  add  one  teaspoon  beef 
extract,  one-fourth  tablespoon  butter,  and  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste.  Pour  over  onions. 

Veal  Forcemeat.  —  Finely  chop  raw  veal;  there 
should  be  one-half  cup.  Add  two  tablespoons  finely 
chopped  fat  salt  pork  and  one-half  cup  soft  bread 
crumbs,  cooked  with  one  tablespoon  butter  and  one 
tablespoon  finely  chopped  onion,  three  minutes. 
When  mixture  is  well  blended  add  one-half  teaspoon 


VEGETABLES  173 

salt,    one-eighth    teaspoon    pepper,    and    one   egg, 
slightly  beaten. 

Oyster  Plant  with  Fine  Herbs 

Wash  and  scrape  one  bunch  oyster  plant.  Put 
at  once  into  cold  acidulated  water  and  let  stand  ten 
minutes.  Cut  in  one-inch  slices  crosswise  and  cook 
in  boiling  salted  water  to  cover  until  soft.  Drain, 
put  in  pan  with  three  tablespoons  butter,  reheat. 
Add  one  teaspoon  finely  chopped  parsley  and  one- 
half  teaspoon  finely  chopped  chives.  Sprinkle  with 
salt  and  pepper. 

Sauted  Parsnips 

Cut  cold,  boiled  young  parsnips  in  sixths,  length- 
wise. Saute  in  butter  until  delicately  browned  and 
sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper. 

Peppers  Stuffed  with  Fresh  Green  Corn 

Cut  a  thick  slice  from  the  stem  end  of  each  pepper, 
remove  seeds  and  parboil  peppers  fifteen  minutes 
in  boiling  salted  water  to  which  is  added  one-eighth 
teaspoon  soda.  Drain,  fill  with  corn  mixture,  ar- 
range on  serving  dish,  sprinkle  tops  with  paprika, 
and  garnish  with  parsley. 

Corn  Mixture.  —  Remove  husks  and  silky  threads 
from  one  dozen  ears  of  green  corn.  Cut  length- 
wise of  cob  through  each  row  of  kernels  and  scrape 
with  a  knife  to  remove  pulp;  there  should  be  two 


174  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

and  one-half  cups.  Put  pulp  in  omelet  pan,  add  one- 
half  cup  milk  and  cook  slowly,  on  back  of  range, 
twenty-five  minutes,  stirring  frequently.  If  cooked 
on  a  gas  range,  gas  flame  should  be  turned  low  and 
covered  with  an  asbestos  mat.  Season  with  butter, 
salt  and  pepper. 

Jarvis  Stuffed  Peppers 

Cut  slices  from  stem  ends  of  six  green  peppers, 
remove  seeds  and  parboil  three  minutes  in  one  quart 
boiling  water  to  which  has  been  added  one-eighth 
teaspoon  soda.  Bring  one-half  can  tomatoes  to 
boiling  point  and  let  simmer  twenty-minutes; 
then  rub  through  a  sieve  and  continue  the  simmering 
until  there  is  one-half  cup  tomato  puree.  Season  with 
salt  and  pepper  and  add  one-half  cup  hot  boiled 
rice.  Let  stand  until  rice  has  absorbed  tomato; 
then  add  one  sweetbread,  parboiled  and  cut  in  small 
cubes.  Season  with  one-half  teaspoon  salt  and  one- 
eighth  teaspoon  paprika.  Fill  peppers  with  mixture, 
arrange  in  a  pan,  sprinkle  tops  with  buttered  bread 
crumbs,  and  bake  until  crumbs  are  brown.  Remove 
to  circular  pieces  of  sauted  bread  and  pour  around 

Littleton  Sauce.  —  Mix  one  teaspoon  flour  and  one 
teaspoon  mustard,  and  when  thoroughly  blended  add 
one  tablespoon  melted  butter,  one  tablespoon  vine- 
gar, one-half  cup  boiling  water  and  the  beaten  yolks 
of  three  eggs.  Cook  in  double  boiler,  stirring  con- 
stantly, until  mixture  thickens.  Add  one-fourth  tea- 
spoon salt,  and  a  few  grains,  each,  pepper  and  cay- 


I 


MOULDED  SPINACH.  —  Payc  175. 


MOULDED  SPINACH  ON  ARTICHOKE  BOTTOMS.  —  Page  176. 


RADISHES  CUT  FOR  GARNISHING. 


DELMONICO  TOMATOES.  —  Page  178. 


VEGETABLES  175 

enne.  Just  before  serving  add  one  tablespoon  currant 
jelly  separated  in  small  pieces. 

Templeton  Stuffed  Peppers 

Wipe  four  long,  green  peppers  and  parboil  ten  min- 
utes in  one  quart  boiling  water,  to  which  has  been 
added  one-fourth  teaspoon  soda.  Drain,  cut  in 
halves,  lengthwise,  remove  seeds,  stuff,  arrange  in 
pan,  cover  with  buttered  crumbs,  and  bake  until 
crumbs  are  brown. 

For  the  stuffing  cook  one-half  tablespoon  chopped 
onion,  and  one-half  tablespoon  green  pepper,  cut  in 
small  pieces,  in  two  tablespoons  butter  five  minutes, 
stirring  constantly.  Add  two  tablespoons  flour  mixed 
with  one  teaspoon  salt,  one-fourth  teaspoon  paprika, 
one-fourth  teaspoon  mustard,  and  a  few  grains  cay- 
enne. Pour  on  gradually,  while  stirring  constantly, 
one-half  cup  milk;  bring  to  the  boiling  point,  add 
one  cup  canned  corn  and  cook  five  minutes;  then 
add  one  egg,  slightly  beaten,  and  two-thirds  cup  dry 
bread,  broken  in  very  small  pieces  and  sauted  in 
butter  until  well  browned. 
I 
Moulded  Spinach 

Pick  over  and  wash  one  peck  spinach.  Cook  in 
an  uncovered  vessel  with  a  large  quantity  of  boiling, 
salted  water,  to  which  have  been  added  two-thirds 
teaspoon  soda  and  one  teaspoon  sugar.  Drain  very 
thoroughly  and  finely  chop.  Season  with  one-third 
cup  butter  and  three-fourths  teaspoon  salt,  and  re- 


176  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

heat.  Press  into  a  buttered  border  mould,  and  keep 
in  a  warm  place  until  serving  time.  Remove  to 
hot  platter  and  fill  centre  with  seasoned,  small 
boiled  beats.  Pour  around  one  and  one-half  cups 
White  Sauce,  and  surround  with  four  hard-boiled  eggs, 
cut  in  sixths,  lengthwise. 

Mounded  Spinach  on  Artichoke  Bottoms 

Wash  and  pick  over  one-half  peck  spinach.  Cook 
twenty-five  minutes  in  an  uncovered  vessel  in  a  large 
quantity  of  boiling,  salted  water,  to  which  have  been 
added  one-third  teaspoon  soda  and  one-half  teaspoon 
powdered  sugar.  Drain,  finely  chop  and  season  with 
butter,  salt,  and  pepper. 

Drain  canned  artichoke  bottoms,  put  in  a  shallow 
or  omelet  pan,  cover  bottom  of  pan  with  boiling 
water  and  add  three  tablespoons  vinegar  and  one 
teaspoon  salt.  Cover  and  cook  until  artichokes  are 
thoroughly  heated.  Drain,  mound  with  cooked 
spinach,  put  in  oven  to  re-heat  and  garnish  with  yolks 
of  hard-boiled  eggs  rubbed  through  a  coarse  strainer, 
and  whites  of  hard-boiled  eggs  cut  in  fancy  shapes. 

Soubrics  of  Spinach 

Wash,  boil,  and  drain  two  quarts  spinach;  then 
chop.  Add  two  tablespoons  grated  Parmesan  cheese 
and  two  egg  yolks,  slightly  beaten,  and  season  with 
one-half  teaspoon  salt  and  a  few. grains,  each,  cay- 
enne and  nutmeg.  Cook  five  minutes,  stirring  con- 
stantly. Remove  from  range  and  stir  in  the  unbeaten 


VEGETABLES  177 

white  of  one  egg.  Measure  by  rounding  tablespoon- 
fuls,  saute  in  butter,  arrange  on  hot  serving  dish 
and  pour  around  one  cup  white  sauce. 

f        Squash  Souffle 

Cut  winter  squash  in  pieces,  remove  seeds  and 
stringy  portion,  and  pare.  Place  in  a  steamer  or 
strainer  and  cook  over  boiling  water  thirty-five 
minutes,  or  until  soft.  Mash  and  season  with 
butter,  salt,  and  pepper.  To  two  cups  mashed  and 
seasoned  squash  add  gradually  one  cup  cream,  and 
when  thoroughly  blended,  add  the  yolks  of  two 
eggs,  beaten  until  thick  and  lemon-colored;  then  the 
whites  of  two  eggs,  beaten  until  stiff  and  dry.  Turn 
into  a  buttered  dish  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven  until 
firm. 

r  Broiled  Tomatoes 
/s  Horseradish  Hollandaise 

Wipe  and  remove  skins  from  medium-sized 
tomatoes.  Cut  in  halves,  crosswise,  sprinkle  with 
salt  and  pepper,  brush  over  with  melted  butter 
and  broil  from  six  to  eight  minutes.  Remove  to 
circular  pieces  of  sauted  bread  or  buttered  toast 
and  on  each  put  a  tablespoon  Horseradish  Hollan- 
daise (see  p.  156). 

Creole  Tomatoes 

Wipe  six  medium-sized  tomatoes,  remove  a  slice 
from  the  top  of  each,  scoop  out  some  of  the  pulp, 


178  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

sprinkle  insides  with  salt,  invert  and  let  stand  one 
hour.  Melt  one  tablespoon  butter,  add  one  table- 
spoon flour  mixed  with  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  one- 
fourth  teaspoon  paprika,  and  a  few  grains  pepper, 
and  when  well  blended,  pour  on  gradually,  while 
stirring  constantly,  one-half  cup  cream.  Bring  to 
the  boiling  point  and  add  one  cup  crab  meat,  one 
tablespoon  Sherry  wine,  and  one-half  tablespoon, 
each,  red  and  green  pepper,  finely  chopped.  Fill 
tomatoes  with  mixture,  sprinkle  tops  with  coarse, 
buttered  bread  crumbs,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
until  tomatoes  are  soft. 

Stuffed  Tomatoes 

Wipe  and  remove  stem  end  from  six  small  tomatoes. 
Take  out  seeds  and  most  of  pulp,  sprinkle  inside  of 
tomatoes  with  salt,  invert  and  let  stand  twenty  min- 
utes. Cook  three  tablespoons  butter  with  six  table- 
spoons chopped  green  pepper,  five  minutes.  Add 
three-fourths  cup  soft,  stale  bread  crumbs,  one-half 
cup  removed  tomato  pulp,  one-fourth  teaspoon  salt, 
one-eighth  teaspoon  pepper,  and  a  few  drops  onion 
juice.  Fill  tomatoes  with  mixture,  put  in  buttered 
pan  and  bake  fifteen  minutes  in  a  hot  oven. 

Delmonico  Tomatoes 

Wipe  and  remove  a  thick  slice  from  stem  ends  of 
«ight  small  tomatoes,  scoop  out  inside,  sprinkle 
with  salt,  invert  and  let  stand  two  hours. 

Wipe,  remove  seeds,  and  chop  three  green  peppers. 


VEGETABLES 


Add  one-half  onion  finely  chopped  and  cook  with  one 
tablespoon  butter  five  minutes,  stirring  constantly. 
Add  one  tablespoon  thick  brown  sauce  to  bind  mix- 
ture together.  Line  tomatoes  with  pepper  mixture, 
having  mixture  extend  over  top  of  tomatoes.  Put 
three  cubes  parboiled  sweetbreads  in  each,  cover 
with  buttered  bread  crumbs  and  bake  twelve  min- 
utes in  a  hot  oven.  Place  on  circular  pieces  of 
sauted  bread  covered  with  brown  sauce. 

Souffle  of  Tomatoes,  Neapolitan  Style 

Melt  two  tablespoons  butter,  add  two  tablespoons 
flour,  and  stir  until  well  blended;  then  pour  on  grad- 
ually, while  stirring  constantly,  one-half  cup  rich 
milk  and  one  cup  tomato  puree.  Bring  to  the  boiling 
point  and  let  simmer  two  minutes;  then  add  two- 
thirds  cup  grated  Parmesan  cheese,  one-half  tea- 
spoon salt,  and  a  few  grains  pepper.  Break  macaroni 
in  one-half-inch  pieces  (there  should  be  one-half 
cup)  and  cook  in  boiling,  salted  water  until  soft; 
drain  and  add  one  and  one-half  tablespoons  melted 
butter.  Add  to  tomato  mixture;  then  add  the  yolks- 
of  three  eggs,  beaten  until  thick  and  lemon-colored, 
and  cut  and  fold  in  the  whites  of  three  eggs,  beaten 
until  stiff.  Turn  into  a  buttered  baking  dish  and 
bake  until  firm.  Serve  immediately. 

To  obtain  tomato  puree,  simmer  one  can  tomatoes 
until  reduced  one-half,  then  force  through  a  puree 
strainer  and  again  let  simmer  until  reduced  to  one 
cup. 


180  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

Tomatoes,  Virginia  Style 

Select  six  sound,  ripe,  medium  sized-tomatoes. 
Wipe,  prick  each  several  times  with  a  fork,  arrange 
in  baking  dish  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until 
soft.  Remove  skins,  arrange  on  serving  dish 
and  pour  over  a  sauce  made  of  two  tablespoons  but- 
ter, three  tablespoons  flour,  one-half  teaspoon  salt, 
one-eighth  teaspoon  pepper,  and  one  cup  thin  cream. 

Turnip  Cones 

Wash  turnips,  pare,  and  cut  in  cone  shapes,  using  a 
French  vegetable  cutter;  there  should  be  three  cups. 
Put  in  a  casserole  with  one  and  one-half  teaspoons 
salt,  one  and  one-half  teaspoons  sugar,  one-fourth 
cup  butter,  and  one-third  cup  water  or  stock.  Cover 
and  cook  in  a  moderate  oven  until  turnips  are  soft. 

Vegetables  en  Casserole 

6  medium-sized  potatoes  24  cup  rice 

1  small  turnip  1  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  canned  peas  %  teaspoon  pepper 

1  cup  canned  tomatoes  3/8  teaspoon  allspice 

1  onion  4  cups  brown  stock 

Wash,  pare  and  thinly  slice  potatoes.  Wash  and 
pare  turnips,  cut  in  one-half-inch  slices  and  slices 
in  cubes.  Peel  and  slice  onions.  Pick  over  and 
wash  rice.  Put  ingredients  in  alternate  layers  ex- 
cept stock  in  casserole,  pour  over  stock,  cover  and 
cook  in  a  slow  oven  three  hours. 


VEGETABLES  181 

Jellied  Vegetable  Ring 

Soak  one  tablespoon  granulated  gelatine  in  one- 
fourth  cup  cold  water  and  dissolve  in  one  cup 
boiling  water;  then  add  one  fourth  cup,  each,  sugar 
and  vinegar,  two  tablespoons  lemon  juice  and 
one  teaspoon  salt.  Strain,  cool,  and  when  beginning 
to  stiffen,  add  one  cup  celery  cut  in  small  strips, 
one-half  cup  shredded  cabbage,  one-third  cup  small 
cucumber  cubes,  one-fourth  cup  cold,  cooked  green 
peas,  and  one-fourth  cup  cold,  cooked  beets  (cut  in 
thin  slices;  then  in  fancy  shapes).  Turn  into  ring 
mould  and  chill.  Remove  to  serving  dish  and 
arrange  around  jelly  thin  slices  of  cold  cooked  meat. 
Fill  centre  with  Horseradish  Cream  Dressing  (see 
p.  215)  and  garnish  with  watercress. 

Vegetable  Panachee 

Cut  cold  boiled  turnip  and  carrots  in  one-fourth- 
inch  slices  and  slice  in  strips  of  uniform  size.  Line 
sides  of  a  generously  buttered  oval  mould  with 
alternate  strips  of  prepared  vegetables  and  garnish 
bottom  of  mould  with  vegetables  shaped  with  French 
cutters.  Fill  with  finely  chopped  boiled  spinach, 
seasoned  with  butter,  salt,  and  pepper.  Set  mould  in 
pan  of  hot  water  and  bake  until  thoroughly  heated. 
Remove  to  hot  serving  dish  and  serve  with  or  without 
White  Sauce. 


CHAPTER  XVIII 

POTATOES 

Potatoes  en  Casserole 

\\  7ASH  and  pare  eight  smooth  round  potatoes 
of  uniform  size.  Cover  with  cold  water  and 
let  stand  two  hours.  Drain,  put  in  a  casserole 
dish,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  add  butter,  allowing  one 
teaspoon  to  each  potato.  Cover  and  bake  until 
soft  (the  time  required  being  about  forty-five  min- 
utes), turning  every  fifteen  minutes. 

Spanish  Potatoes 

Season  three  cups  hot  riced  potatoes  with  three 
tablespoons  butter,  one-half  cup  cream,  and  salt  to 
taste.  Beat  vigorously  five  minutes,  add  one  and 
one-half  canned  pimientos  (cut  in  small  pieces  or 
forced  through  a  puree  strainer)  and  beat  until  well 
blended.  Re-heat  and  pile  on  a  hot  serving  plate. 

Savory  Potatoes 

Force  hot  boiled  potatoes  through  a  potato  ricer; 
there  should  be  two  cups.  Season  with  three  table- 
spoons butter,  one  and  one-half  teaspoons  salt,  and 
moisten  with  one-third  cup  milk  or  cream.  Beat 


POTATOES  183 

vigorously  and  add  one  tablespoon  chopped  water- 
cress and  one  teaspoon  chopped  fresh  mint  leaves. 

Chantilly  Potatoes 

Pile  on  a  serving  dish  three  cups  well-seasoned 
mashed  potatoes.  Beat  one-half  cup  heavy  cream 
until  stiff,  add  one-half  cup  grated  cheese,  and  season 
with  salt  and  pepper.  Spread  over  potatoes,  place 
in  a  hot  oven  and  bake  until  cheese  is  melted  and 
cream  is  delicately  browned. 

Pomine  Fondante 
« 

Force  hot  boiled  potatoes  through  a  potato  ricer; 
there  should  be  three  and  one-half  cups.  Season 
with  three  tablespoons  butter,  one  and  one-half 
teaspoons  salt,  and  one-fourth  teaspoon  pepper. 
Add  gradually,  while  beating  constantly,  two-thirds 
cup  hot  milk  and  beat  vigorously  three  minutes. 
Turn  into  a  buttered  baking  dish,  pour  over  one-half 
cup  heavy  cream  and  sprinkle  with  three-fourths 
cup  coarse  stale  bread  crumbs.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven 
until  crumbs  are  brown. 

Pittsburg  Potatoes 

1  quart  J^-inch  potato  cubes  2  cups  white  sauce 

1  onion  ^  pound  mild  cheese 

}/2  can  pimientos  ^  teaspoon  salt 

Cook  potato  cubes  and  onion,  finely  chopped, 
in  boiling,  salted  water  to  cover,  five  minutes.  Add 


184  A   NEW   BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

pimientos,  cut  in  small  pieces,  and  cook  seven  min- 
utes; then  drain.  Turn  into  a  buttered  baking 
dish  and  pour  over  white  sauce,  mixed  with  cheese 
and  salt.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  potatoes  are 
soft. 

Alphonso  Potatoes 

Wash  and  pare  five  medium-sized  potatoes  and 
cook  in  boiling,  salted  water  until  soft;  then  cut  in 
one-fourth-inch  cubes.  Parboil  one  green  pepper, 
from  which  seeds  have  b'een  removed,  six  minutes 
and  cut  in  one-eighth-inch  squares.  Add  to  potato 
cubes  with  two  tablespoons  butter,  one^cup  milk, 
and  three-fourths  teaspoon  salt.  Put  in  a  buttered 
baking  dish,  sprinkle  with  one  and  one-half  table- 
spoons grated  Parmesan  cheese,  and  bake  ten 
minutes. 

Potatoes  a  la  Goldenrod 

Cut  boiled  potatoes  in  cubes;  there  should  be  two 
cups.  Separate  yolks  from  whites  of  four  hard- 
boiled  eggs.  Chop  the  whites  and  force  the  yolks 
through  a  potato  ricer  or  strainer.  Add  potato 
cubes  and  chopped  whites  to  one  and  one-half  cups 
white  sauce,  turn  into  a  hot  serving  dish.  Sprinkle 
with  yolks  and  garnish  with  parsley. 

White  Sauce 

3  tablespoons  butter  2  slices  onion 

3  tablespoons  flour  1A  teaspoon  salt 

1  y%  cups  milk  Few  grains  paprika 


JELLIED  VEGETABLE  Ri.\<;.  —  Page  181, 


VEGETABLE  PANACHEE. —  Page  181. 


POTATOES  A  LA  SUISSE. —  Page  186. 


LORRETTE  POTATOES.  —  Page  188. 


POTATOES  185 

Melt  butter,  add  flour  and  pour  on  gradually, 
while  stirring  constantly,  the  milk  which  has  been 
scalded  with  the  onion,  then  the  onion  removed. 
When  boiling  point  is  reached,  add  seasonings  and 
beat  until  smooth  and  glossy. 

Potato  Moulds 

Remove  the  inside  from  three  baked  potatoes  and 
force  through  a  potato  ricer.  Season  with  two  table- 
spoons butter,  one-half  teaspoon  salt  and  a  few  grains 
pepper  and  add  the  white  of  one  egg,  beaten  until 
stiff.  Mould  with  a- tablespoon;  place  on  a  buttered 
sheet,  brush  over  with  melted  butter  arid  bake  in  a 
hot  oven  until  well  browned. 

Martinique  Potatoes 

Scoop  out  inside  of  four  large  hot  baked  potatoes 
and  force  through  a  potato  ricer.  Add  one  and  one- 
half  tablespoons  butter,  three  tablespoons  cream, 
one  egg  yolk  slightly  beaten,  one-half  teaspoon 
salt,  one-eighth  teaspoon  pepper  and  a  few  gratings 
nutmeg.  Set  on  range  and  cook  three  minutes, 
stirring  constantly;  then  add,  gradually,  the  white 
of  one  egg,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Shape  between 
two  buttered  tablespoons,  place  on  a  buttered 
sheet  and  bake  until  delicately  browned. 

Baked  Potato  Apples 

1  ^  cups  hot  riced  potatoes  2  tablespoons  butter 

Yolk  Yz  egg  }/2  teaspoon  salt 

Few  grains  pepper 


186  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

Mix  ingredients  and  stir  until  well  blended.  Shape 
into  forms  representing  small  apples,  using  one  table- 
spoon mixture  to  each  apple.  Arrange  on  buttered 
sheet,  brush  over  with  yolk  of  egg,  diluted  with  one- 
half  tablespoon  cold  water,  and  insert  cloves  in  both 
stem  and  blossom  ends.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven  until 
thoroughly  heated  and  glazed. 

Potatoes  a  la  Suisse 

Wash  smooth,  round,  medium-sized  potatoes; 
put  in  dripping  pan  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  until 
soft.  Remove  a  slice  from  each  and  scoop  out  most 
of  the  inside.  Force  through  a  potato  ricer,  season 
with  butter,  salt  and  pepper  and  add  a  small  quan- 
tity of  milk.  Slip  an  egg  into  each  potato  case  and 
force  potato  mixture  through  a  pastry  bag  and  tube 
around  edge.  Return  to  oven  and  bake  until  eggs 
are  set.  Arrange  on  serving  dish  and  garnish  with 
watercress. 

Anchovied  Stuffed  Potatoes 

Wash  and  peel  six  medium-sized  potatoes,  arrange 
in  a  pan  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven,  turning  frequently; 
the  time  required  being  about  fifty  minutes.  Cut 
slice  from  each  lengthwise,  scoop  out  inside  and  force 
through  a  potato  ricer.  Add  one-half  cup  hot  milk, 
two  tablespoons  butter,  twelve  anchovies,  cut  in 
small  pieces,  one-eighth  teaspoon  grated  nutmeg 
and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Refill  shells  with  mix- 
ture, sprinkle  with  grated  cheese  and  bake  until 
delicately  browned. 


POTATOES  187 

Deerf  oot  Potatoes 

Wash  and  pare  potatoes  of  uniform  size.  Remove 
from  each  two  portions,  using  an  apple  corer.  Fill 
cavities  thus  made  with  sausages  and  insert  rounds 
of  potatoes  to  conceal  sausages.  Put  in  a  pan  and 
bake  in  a  hot  oven  until  potatoes  are  soft. 

French  Fried  Potatoes 

Wash  and  pare  small  potatoes,  cut  in  eighths 
lengthwise,  and  soak  one  hour  in  cold  water  to  cover. 
Drain  and  parboil  in  boiling  salted  water  to  cover 
two  minutes;  again  drain,  plunge  into  cold  water, 
dry  between  towels,  fry  in  deep  fat  until  deli- 
cately browned,  a  few  at  a  time,  and  drain  on 
brown  paper.  Heat  fat  to  a  higher  temperature, 
return  all  the  potatoes  to  fat,  using  a  frying  bas- 
ket, and  fry  until  crisp  and  brown,  keeping  the 
basket  in  motion.  Again  drain  on  brown  paper 
and  sprinkle  with  salt. 

Rector  Potatoes 

Wash,  pare  and  shape  potatoes,  using  an  elliptical 
shaped  French  cutter.  Fry  in  deep  fat  and  drain. 

Fried  Potato  Curls 

Wash  and  pare  potatoes  and  cut  in  one-half-inch 
slices.  Cut  round  and  round  so  as  to  make  curls. 
Put  in  cold  water  and  let  stand  thirty  minutes. 
Drain,  dry  on  a  towel  and  fry  in  deep  fat.  Drain 
on  brown  paper  and  sprinkle  with  salt. 


188  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

Fried  Potato  Dots 

Wash  and  pare  large  potatoes  and  shape  with  an 
apple  corer;  then  cut  pieces  thus  formed  in  one-fourth- 
inch  slices,  crosswise.  Soak  in  cold  water  eight 
minutes,  drain,  cook  in  salted  boiling  water  two 
minutes;  again  drain,  put  in  ice  water  and  let  stand 
ten  minutes.  Drain,  dry  between  towels,  fry  in  deep 
fat,  drain  on  brown  paper  and  sprinkle  with  salt. 

Lorrette  Potatoes 

Wash  and  pare  large  potatoes,  and  shape  with  a 
cutter,  especially  made  for  the  purpose  of  cutting 
vegetables.  Cover  with  boiling  salted  water  and 
let  boil  five  minutes.  Drain  and  plunge  into  ice- 
water  and  let  stand  one  minute.  Again  drain,  dry 
between  towels,  fry  in  deep  fat  and  drain  on  brown 
paper.  Sprinkle  with  salt. 

Princess  Potatoes 

3  cups  ^-inch  potato  cubes      ^  tablespoon  lemon  juice 
1  cup  white  sauce  1  teaspoon  finely  chopped 

1  teaspoon  beef  extract  parsley 

1  tablespoon  butter 

Fry  potato  cubes  in  deep  fat  until  delicately 
browned  and  drain  on  brown  paper.  Make  sauce 
of  two  tablespoons  butter,  two  tablespoons  flour, 
one-third  teaspoon  salt,  a  few  grains  pepper  and  one 
cup  milk.  Add  beef  extract,  lemon  juice,  parsley 
and  butter,  bit  by  bit;  then  add  potatoes  and  serve 
at  once. 


POTATOES  189 

Potatoes  Rissolee 

Wash,  pare  and  trim  eight  new  potatoes  of  uniform 
size.  Let  stand  in  cold  water  fifteen  minutes,  drain 
and  dry  between  towels.  Fry  in  deep  fat  until  deli- 
cately browned  and  drain  on  brown  paper.  Put 
in  baking  pan  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  until  soft, 
the  time  required  being  about  twenty-five  minutes. 
Remove  to  serving  dish  and  pour  over  one  cup  rich 
white  or  cream  sauce. 

Sultan  Potatoes 

Wash  and  pare  large  potatoes  and  shape  in  circu- 
lar pieces,  two  and  one-half  inches  long  and  one-third 
inch  in  diameter,  using  a  French  vegetable  cutter. 
Fry  in  deep  fat  and  drain  on  brown  paper;  there 
should  be  three  cups.  Arrange  on  hot  serving  dish 
to  represent  a  wood  pile  and  pour  over  sauce,  same 
as  for  Princess  Potatoes,  omitting  the  parsley  (see 
p.  188). 

Fried  Potatoes,  Bourgoyne 

Wash,  pare  and  cut  potatoes  in  one-fourth-inch 
slices;  then  slice  in  strips;  there  should  be  three  cups. 
Parboil  one  minute  in  boiling  salted  water,  drain,  dry 
on  towel,  fry  in  deep  fat  and  drain  on  brown  paper. 
Melt  three-fourths  teaspoon  butter  in  hot  iron  fry 
pan,  and  add  three-fourths  teaspoon  finely  cut  chives ; 
add  potatoes  and  stir  until  potatoes  have  absorbed 
fat. 


190  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

Potato  and  Spinach  Croquettes 

Force  hot  boiled  potatoes  through  a  potato  ricer; 
there  should  be  two  cups.  Add  two  tablespoons 
butter,  yolks  two  eggs,  slightly  beaten,  and  one- 
fourth  cup  finely  chopped  cooked  spinach.  Season 
with  salt  and  pepper.  Shape,  dip  in  crumbs,  egg 
and  crumbs,  fry  in  deep  fat  and  drain  on  brown 
paper. 

Nut  and  Potato  Croquettes 

2  cups  hot  riced  potatoes  %  cup  bread  crumbs 

3  tablespoons  cream  ^  cup  cream 
Yz  teaspoon  salt  YL  egg  yolk 

}/8  teaspoon  pepper  %  teaspoon  salt 

Few  grains  cayenne  H  cup  chopped  pecan  nut 

Few  drops  onion  juice  meats 

Yolk  1  egg 

Mix  first  seven  ingredients  and  beat  thoroughly. 
Cook  bread  crumbs  with  cream  to  make  a  thick 
paste  and  cool;  then  add  remaining  ingredients. 
Shape  potato  mixture  in  nests,  fill  with  nut  mixture, 
cover  with  potato  mixture,  roll  until  of  the  desired 
length  and  flatten  ends.  Dip  in  crumbs,  egg  and 
crumbs,  fry  in  deep  fat  and  drain  on  brown  paper. 
Stand  in  circular  form  on  serving  dish  and  fill  centre 
with  a  bunch  of  parsley. 

Piedmont  Potato  Croquettes 

To  two  cups  hot  riced  potatoes  add  three  table- 
spoons butter,  three-fourths  teaspoon  salt,  one  and 
one-half  tablespoons  finely  chopped  truffles  and  the 


POTATOES  191 

yolks  of  three  eggs  slightly  beaten.  Shape  in  balls 
(allowing  one  rounding  tablespoon  of  mixture  to 
each  croquette),  roll  in  flour,  dip  in  egg  and  roll  in 
Jordan  almonds,  blanched  and  shredded.  Fry  in 
deep  fat  and  drain  on  brown  paper. 

Creamed  Sweet  Potatoes,  Club  House  Style 

Cut  cold  boiled  sweet  potatoes  in  one-half-inch 
cubes;  there  should  be  two  cups.  Put  in  a  saucepan 
with  two  tablespoons  butter  and  cook  three  minutes. 
Season  with  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  one-eighth  tea- 
spoon black  pepper  and  few  grains  paprika;  then 
sprinkle  with  two  tablespoons  flour  and  pour  over 
one  cup  rich  milk.  Cook  very  slowly  twenty  minutes. 

l 

i  Candied  Sweet  Potatoes 

Wash  and  cook  six  medium-sized  sweet  potatoes 
in  boiling  salted  water  to  cover.  Drain,  peel,  cut 
in  halves,  lengthwise,  arrange  in  buttered  baking 
dish,  sprinkling  each  layer  with  sugar,  using  one  cup 
in  all.  Pour  over  one-half  cup  melted  butter.  Cook 

in  a  slow  oven  two  hours. 

\ 

Sweet  Potatoes,  Brule 

Cut  three  medium-sized  cold  boiled  sweet  potatoes 
in  one-third-inch  slices  and  saute  in  butter  until 
delicately  browned.  Put  one-fourth  cup  sugar  and 
one  tablespoon  boiling  water  in  small  saucepan, 
place  on  range,  bring  to  the  boiling  point  and  let 


192  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

boil  until  of  the  consistency  of  a  thick  syrup.  Put 
one-half  tablespoon  syrup  in  chafing  dish,  add  pota- 
toes, sprinkle  with  salt,  paprika  and  a  few  grains 
cayenne.  Add  one-fourth  cup  brandy,  put  lighted 
match  to  brandy,  and  as  soon  as  brandy  begins  to 
burn,  toss  potatoes  (using  a  fork  and  spoon)  until 
brandy  stops  burning. 

Sauted  Sweet  Potatoes  with  Rum 

Wash  and  pare  medium-sized  sweet  potatoes, 
and  cut  in  one-third-inch  slices,  lengthwise.  Par- 
boil in  boiling  salted  water  eight  minutes,  drain 
and  saute  in  butter  until  well  browned  on  both  sides. 
Remove  to  a  hot  serving  dish,  pour  over  Jamaica 
rum  and  light  when  sending  to  table. 

Sweet  Potatoes,  Flambant 

Wash  and  pare  large  sweet  potatoes.  Cook  in 
boiling  salted  water  until  soft,  drain,  cut  in  one-fourth- 
inch  slices  lengthwise  and  trim  in  oblong  shapes  of 
uniform  size.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and  saute  until 
browned.  Arrange  pieces  overlapping  one  another 
on  a  silver  platter  and  pour  over  and  around  brandy. 
Light  liquor  and  baste,  using  brandy  in  dish  until 
it  stops  burning. 

Scalloped  Sweet  Potatoes  and  Apples 

2   cups   cold   boiled  sweet  \Y^  cups  thinly  sliced 
potatoes  cut  in  %  inch  sour  apples 

slices  4  tablespoons  butter 

^  cup  brown  sugar  1  teaspoon  salt 


NUT  AXD  POTATO  CROQUETTES. —  Page  190. 


PIEDMONT  POTATO  CROQUETTES.  —  Page  190. 


RECTOR  SALAD.  —  Page  196. 


CARLTON  SALAD.  —  Page  196. 


POTATOES  193 

Put  one-half  the  potatoes  in  buttered  baking  dish, 
cover  with  one-half  the  apples,  sprinkle  with  one-half 
the  sugar,  dot  over  with  one-half  the  butter  and 
sprinkle  with  one-half  the  salt;  repeat  and  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  one  hour. 


CHAPTER  XIX 

SALADS 

Lettuce  and  Pimiento  Salad 

REMOVE  leaves  from  one  head  lettuce,  wash, 
drain  and  dry.  Arrange  in  bowl  as  near  the 
original  shape  as  possible  and  sprinkle  with  one-half 
cup  canned  pimientos  cut  in  strips.  Just  before 
sending  to  table  pour  over  Columbia  French  Dress- 
ing (see  p.  213). 

Chiccory  and  Celery  Salad 

Wash  and  scrape  celery  and  cut  in  one  and  three- 
fourths  inch  pieces  crosswise;  then  cut  in  thin  strips 
lengthwise.  Chill  in  cold  water  to  wrhich  have  been 
added  a  few  drops  lemon  juice.  Drain  and  dry  in 
cheese-cloth.  Pick  over  and  wash  one  head  chiccory, 
drain  and  dry  on  cheese-cloth.  Arrange  in  salad 
bowl,  sprinkle  with  celery  and  serve  with  French 
Dressing. 

Good  Luck  Salad 

Wipe  a  long  selected  cucumber,  pare,  cut  in  thin 
slices  crosswise  and  trim.  Arrange  horse-shoe  fashion 


SALADS  195 

on  a  bed  ofromaine,  also  trimmed  and  arranged 
horse-shoe  fashion.  Garnish  with  pieces  of  truffle 
cut  to  represent  nail  heads.  Serve  with  Cream 
French  Dressing  (see  p.  213). 

Cucumber  Cups 

Pare  cucumbers  and  remove  a  thick  slice  from 
each  end  and  with  a  sharp-pointed  knife  make 
eight  grooves  at  equal  distances  lengthwise  of 
cucumber.  Cut  in  pieces  crosswise  and  remove 
some  of  the  inside,  leaving  cups;  then  cut  in  thin 
slices  crosswise,  keeping  the  original  shapes.  Ar- 
range on  nest  of  lettuce  leaves  and  fill  with  Cream 
French  Dressing  (see  p.  213). 

Dressed  Cucumber 
(An  accompaniment  to  a  fish  course) 

Wipe  a  long  selected  cucumber.  Beginning  at 
blossom  end,  make  nine  incisions,  at  equal  dis- 
tances, through  skin  lengthwise  of  cucumber  to  one 
inch  of  stem  end.  Pass  knife  under  sections  of 
skin  and  cut  down  almost  as  far  as  incisions  extend. 
Remove  cucumber  at  that  point  and  pare  with  a 
fluted  knife,  then  cut  in  thin  slices  crosswise.  Re- 
place prepared  cucumber  in  skin,  place  on  a  glass 
dish  and  garnish  with  watercress  and  radishes  cut 
to  represent  .flowers  (see  illustration).  Pour  over 
French  Dressing. 


196  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

Rector  Salad 

Pare  long  selected  cucumbers  and,  cut  in  box- 
shaped  pieces  two  inches  long,  one  and  one-half 
inches  wide  and  one  and  one-fourth  inches  high; 
then  cut  in  thin  slices,  crosswise,  keeping  in  original 
shape.  Soak  one-half  teaspoon  granulated  gelatine 
in  two  teaspoons  cold  water  five  minutes.  Set  cup 
containing  gelatine  in  small  saucepan  of  boiling 
water  and  stir  until  gelatine  has  dissolved.  Strain, 
cool  and  add  gradually  to  one  cup  Mayonnaise  Dress- 
ing. Spread  cucumber  boxes  evenly  with  prepared 
Mayonnaise  Dressing,  and  garnish  with  small  rounds 
of  red  pepper  and  diamond-shaped  pieces  of  truffle, 
arranged  in  regular  fashion.  Arrange  in  nests  of  crisp 
lettuce  leaves. 

Carlton  Salad 

Separate  French  Endive  into  pieces  and  clean; 
drain  and  chill.  Cut  cold  cooked  beets  in  one- 
quarter-inch  slices  and  slices  into  rings  and  fancy 
shapes,  using  a  French  vegetable  cutter.  Arrange 
pieces  of  endive  through  beet  rings.  Arrange  for 
individual  service  on  crisp  lettuce  leaves,  allowing 
two  leaves,  two  bunches  of  endive  in  rings  and  five 
shapes  for  each  portion. 

Serve  with  Carlton  Salad  Dressing  (see  p.  217). 

Nugget  Salad 

Wipe,  peel  and  cut  in  halves  small  yellow  tomatoes. 
Chill  thoroughly,  arrange  on  a  bed  of  lettuce  leaves, 


tJ 


' 


INDIAN  SALAD. — Page  198. 


SPRING  SALAD  —  Page  198. 


SALADS  197 

pour  over  French  Dressing  and  sprinkle  with  finely 
chopped  parsley. 

German  Tomato  Salad 

Chill  six  small  tomatoes  of  uniform  size.  Peel 
(which  is  best  accomplished  by  scraping  entire  sur- 
face with  the  back  of  a  vegetable  knife,  when  skin 
may  be  easily  removed)  and  cut  in  eighths,  without 
severing  sections.  Open  in  such  fashion  as  to 
represent  the  petals  of  a  flower.  In  centre  of  each 
place  a  teaspoon  of  pearl  onions.  Serve  with  French 
Dressing. 

Poinsettia  Salad 

Chill,  cut  and  arrange  tomatoes  same  as  for 
German  Tomato  Salad.  In  centre  of  each  put  one 
tablespoon  cream  cheese,  mashed,  moistened  with 
French  Dressing,  seasoned  with  salt  and  paprika 
and  forced  through  a  puree  strainer.  Serve  with 
Martinique  French  Dressing. 

Huntington  Salad 

Wipe,  peel  and  chill  medium-sized  tomatoes, 
then  cut  in  five  vertical  slices,  crosswise,  not  serving 
sections.  Mash  a  cream  cheese,  moisten  with 
French  Dressing,  pack  into  a  timbale  mould  and  chill 
thoroughly.  Remove  from  mould,  cut  in  one-fourth- 
inch  slices,  crosswise,  and  fit  slices  between  incisions 
in  tomatoes.  Serve  in  nests  of  crisp  lettuce  leaves 
with  French  Dressing. 


198  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

Joplin  Stuffed  Tomato  Salad 

Wipe  and  skin  six  small  tomatoes.  Cut  a  piece 
from  stem  end  of  each,  scrape  out  soft  inside, 
sprinkle  inside  surface  with  salt,  invert  and  let  stand 
one-half  hour.  Mash  one-half  a  cream  cheese,  and 
add  six  chopped  pimolas,  one  tablespoon  finely 
chopped  parsley,  one  tablespoon  tomato  pulp,  and 
one-fourth  teaspoon  dry  mustard  and  moisten  with 
French  Dressing.  Fill  tomatoes  with  mixture, 
arrange  in  nests  of  crisp  lettuce  leaves  and  serve 
with  Mayonnaise  Dressing. 

Indian  Salad 

Wipe  and  peel  six  medium-sized  tomatoes.  Scoop 
out  centres,  sprinkle  inside  with  salt,  invert  and 
let  stand  until  thoroughly  chilled.  Insert  in  each 
from  six  to  eight  short  stalks  of  cold  boiled  asparagus. 
Put  over  asparagus,  resting  on  rims  of  tomato, 
one-fourth-inch  rings  cut  from  a  cold  boiled  beet. 
Over  beet  rings  arrange  one-fourth-inch  rings  cut 
from  green  pepper,  and  over  green  pepper  rings, 
red  pepper  rings.  Arrange  for  individual  service 
on  crisp  lettuce  leaves  and  serve  with  Indian  Dressing. 

Spring  Salad 

Cut  four  hard-boiled  eggs  in  halves  crosswise, 
remove  yolks,  and  cut  a  thin  slice  from  each  end 
of  whites,  thus  making  cups  that  will  stand  up- 
right. Mash  yolks  and  moisten  with  cream  salad 


GERMAN  TOMATO  SALAD.  —  Page  197. 


HUNTINGTON  SALAD.  —  Page  197. 


CELERY  SALAD  BONNE  FEMME.  —  Page  200. 


FLEMISH  BEAUTY  SALAD.  —  Page  202. 


SALADS  199 

dressing.  Fill  cups  with  one-half  cup  tiny  cucumber 
cubes  mixed  with  three  tablespoons  chopped  sweet 
cucumber  pickles,  and  moistened  with  cream  salad 
dressing.  Garnish  top  of  each  with  yolk  mixture, 
forced  through  a  pastry  bag  and  rose  tube  and  gar- 
nish with  diamond-shaped  pieces  of  pickle.  Arrange 
thick  slices  of  tomato  on  lettuce  leaves  and  on  each 
slice  of  tomato  place  an  egg  cup.  Garnish  with 
watercress. 

Porcupine  Salad 

Wipe  and  peel  eight  small  tomatoes  and  stick  with 
two-inch  narrow  strips  of  celery  and  green  pepper  at 
regular  intervals,  allowing  seven  of  each  to  each 
tomato.  Put  a  tablespoon  Waltham  Salad  Dressing 
(see  p.  216)  on  each  serving  plate,  place  tomato  on 
dressing  and  sprinkle  with  finely  chopped  parsley, 
allowing  one  tablespoon  to  the  eight  tomatoes. 

To  be  accompanied  with  dressed  lettuce  or  may  be 
served  on  lettuce  leaves. 

Heliof oils  Salad 

Wash,  scrape  and  cut  celery  in  thin  slices  crosswise; 
there  should  be  one-half  cup.  Wipe,  pare  and  cut  an 
apple  in  eighths,  lengthwise,  then  sections  in  thin 
slices,  crosswise.  Parboil  a  small  green  pepper  in 
boiled  salted  water  to  cover  eight  minutes.  Cut  in 
halves,  remove  seeds  and  cut  in  Julienne-shaped 
pieces.  Wipe  and  peel  four  tomatoes  of  uniform  size 
and  cut  in  sections.  Marinate  each  separately  and 


200  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

chill  thoroughly.    Arrange  on  a  nest  of  crisp  lettuce 
leaves  and  serve  with  Cream  Mayonnaise. 

Dixie  Salad 

Wash,  drain,  chill  and  arrange  French  endive  in 
salad  bowl  and  on  endive  arrange  thin  lengthwise  slices 
cut  from  sections  of  pared  apples,  small  tomatoes 
peeled  and  cut  in  quarters,  whites  of  hard-boiled  eggs, 
finely  chopped,  and  yolks  of  hard-boiled  eggs  forced 
through  a  potato  ricer  or  puree  strainer.  Serve  with 
Virginia  Salad  Dressing. 

Celery  Salad,  Bonne  Femme 

Wash,  scrape  and  cut  celery  in  small  pieces.  Chill 
in  cold  or  ice  water,  drain  and  dry  on  a  towel.  To 
celery  add  an  equal  measure  of  apples,  pared,  cored 
and  cut  in  small  pieces.  Moisten  with  Denver  Cream 
Dressing  and  arrange  in  a  salad  bowl  made  of  a  small 
solid  white  cabbage,  placed  on  a  bed  of  crisp  lettuce 
leaves.  Cut  rim  of  bowl  in  points  and  insert  sec- 
tions of  bright  red  apples  and  whole  cloves  as  shown 
in  the  illustration. 

Asparagus  Salad  I 

Arrange  one-half  bunch  of  cooked  asparagus,  which 
has  been  thoroughly  chilled,  on  a  bed  of  crisp  lettuce 
leaves,  and  arrange  the  following  mixture  to  repre- 
sent a  band  across  the  middle  of  bunch:  To  the 
white  of  one  hard-boiled  egg,  finely  chopped,  add  one 


ASPARAGUS  SALAD  1  —Page  200. 


EASTER  SALAD.— Page  201 


SALADS  201 

tablespoon,  each,  pickle  and  pimiento,  finely  chopped, 
and  one-half  tablespoon  finely  chopped  parsley.  Pour 
over  a  dressing  made  of  four  tablespoons  olive  oil,  two 
tablespoons  lemon  juice,  one-half  teaspoon  salt  and 
one-eighth  teaspoon  pepper. 

Asparagus  Salad  II 

Arrange  cold  cooked  asparagus  on  a  bed  of  crisp 
lettuce  leaves  and  pour  over  'Vinaigrette  Sauce 
(see  p.  159). 

Allerton  Salad 

Wipe  and  pare  a  cucumber;  cut  in  one-third-inch 
slices  and  slices  in  one-third-inch  cubes.  Add  an 
equal  measure  of  celery  (cut  in  thin  slices,  crosswise), 
one-half  the  measure  of  English  Walnut  meats, 
broken  in  pieces,  and  one-third  the  measure  of  a  red 
or  green  pepper,  finely  chopped.  Moisten  with 
Ruthven  Salad  Cream,  mound  on  three-fourth-inch 
slices  of  peeled,  chilled  tomatoes,  arrange  in  nests 
of  lettuce  leaves  and  sprinkle  with  finely  cut  chives. 

/Easter  Salad 

Put  eggs  in  lower  part  of  double  boiler  and  cover 
with  boiling  water.  Put  over  under  part  of  double 
boiler  which  contains  boiling  water,  cover  and  let 
cook  on  range  thirty-five  minutes.  Remove  shells 
and  while  hot  hold  between  thumb  and  finger, 
while  pressing  into  apple  shapes.  Mix  a  bit  of  Fruit 


202  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

Red  with  cold  water  and  apply  to  eggs,  using  a  brush. 
Insert  a  clove  to  represent  blossom  end,  and  a  stem 
and  leaves  to  represent  stem  end  (hot-house  lilac 
leaves  answer  the  purpose)  and  arrange  on  lettuce 
leaves. 

Serve  with  Mayonnaise  Piquante  (see  p.  214). 

Flemish  Beauty  Salad 

Cook  eggs  same*  as  for  Easter  Salad  and  when 
still  hot,  press  into  pear  shapes.  Mix  a  bit  of  Fruit 
Green  with  cold  water  and  put  on  pears,  using  a 
camel's  hair  brush.  Insert  cloves  and  stem  and  leaves 
same  as  in  Easter  Salad.  Arrange  on  lettuce  leaves 
and  serve  with  Mayonnaise  Piquante  (see  p.  214). 

Romaine  Salad 

Separate  one  head  romaine  in  quarters.  Put 
sections  on  salad  plates  for  individual  service  and 
arrange  on  each  sections  of  grape  fruit,  oranges  and 
pears,  using  two  of  each.  Place  at  ends  pickled 
walnuts.  Serve  with  French  Dressing. 

Dinner  Salad 

Arrange  for  individual  service  alternate  sections 
of  orange  and  grape  fruit  on  romaine,  allowing 
six  sections  of  fruit  and  two  romaine  leaves  to 
each  portion.  Garnish  between  sections  with 
thin  strips  of  canned  pimiento.  Serve  with  French 
Dressing. 


PARISIAN  GRAPE  FRUIT  SALAD.  —  Page  203. 


TOURAIXE  GRAPE  FRUIT  SALAD.—- /Ja0g  203. 


CHERRY  NUT  SALAD.  —  Page  205. 


CAMPESTRIS  SALAD.  —  Page  206. 


SALADS  203 

Peanut  Salad 

Shell,  skin  and  chop  one  pint  peanuts;  there  should 
be  one-half  cup.  Add  one  cup  celery,  washed, 
scraped,  cut  in  small  pieces,  chilled  in  ice  water, 
drained  and  dried  in  a  towel.  Marinate  with  French 
Dressing.  Wipe  peppers,  cut  in  halves  lengthwise, 
and  remove  seeds.  Arrange  on  a  bed  of  lettuce  leaves, 
fill  with  prepared  mixture  and  garnish  top  of  each 
with  three  thin  slices  of  radish  overlapping  one 
another. 

Parisian  Grape  Fruit  Salad 

Drain  canned  artichoke  bottoms,  marinate  with 
French  Dressing  and  let  stand  in  ice  box  one  hour. 
Peel  grape  fruit,  remove  pulp  by  sections  and  cut  in 
halves,  crosswise.  Mould  halves  of  sections  dome- 
shaped  on  artichoke  bottoms  and  arrange  between 
each  section  a  narrow  strip  of  canned  pimiento  and 
garnish  top  with  pimiento  shaped  with  a  French 
vegetable  cutter.  Arrange  each  on  crisp  lettuce  leaves 
for  individual  service.  Pour  over  Red  Wine  French 
Dressing. 

Touraine  Fruit  Salad 

Remove  pulp  from  one  grape  fruit  and  one  large 
orange.  Wipe  and  remove  skins  from  pears  and  scoop 
out  balls,  using  a  French  vegetable  cutter,  having 
the  same  measure  as  of  orange  pulp.  Drain  juice 
from  fruits  and  moisten  with  a  Cream  French  Dress- 
ing (see  p.  213). 


204  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

Take  a  quart  bowl  and  line  with  alternate  sections 
of  grape  fruit  and  orange.  Fill  centre  with  prepared 
fruit  and  chill.  Remove  from  bowl  to  salad  dish, 
place  a  canned  artichoke  bottom  (marinated  with 
French  Dressing)  on  top  and  garnish  with  small 
triangular  pieces  cut  from  thin  slices  of  truffle  and 
three  or  four  small  heart  lettuce  leaves. 

Lakewood  Salad 

Cut  one  grape  fruit  and  two  oranges  in  sections 
and  free  from  seed  and  membrane.  Skin  and  seed 
white  grapes;  there  should  be  three-fourths  cup. 
Cut  pecan  nut  meats  in  pieces;  there  should  be 
one-third  cup.  Mix  prepared  ingredients,  arrange 
on  a  bed  of  romaine,  pour  over  dressing  and  garnish 
with  thin  strips  of  red  pepper. 

For  the  dressing  mix  four  tablespoons  olive  oil, 
one  tablespoon  grape  fruit  juice,  one-half  tablespoon 
vinegar,  one  teaspoon  salt,  one-fourth  teaspoon  pap- 
rika, one-eighth  teaspoon  pepper  and  one  tablespoon 
finely  chopped  Roquefort  cheese. 

Moquin  Salad 

Seed  and  peel  white  grapes  and  stuff  with  strips  of 
canned  pimiento;  there  should  be  one  cup.  Separate 
tangerines  into  sections  and  free  from  skin  and  seeds; 
there  should  be  one  and  one-fourth  cups.  Mash  a 
ten  cent  cream  cheese,  add  one-fourth  cup  chopped 
pecan  nut  meats  and  moisten  with  French  Dressing; 


SALADS  205 

then  make  into  balls  about  size  of  grapes.  Arrange 
grapes,  tangerines  and  cheese  balls  on  lettuce  leaves, 
and  serve  with  French  Dressing. 

Strawberry  Salad 

Wash,  hull  and  cut  one  pint  selected  strawberries 
in  halves,  lengthwise.  Sprinkle  with  powdered 
sugar  and  add  one  teaspoon  kirsch.  Cover  and 
let  stand  in  ice  box  until  thoroughly  chilled.  Ar- 
range in  eight  nests  of  white  lettuce  leaves  and 
cover  fruit  with  one-half  pint  whipped  cream  (sea- 
soned with  salt  and  paprika)  to  which  has  been 
added  one-half  cup  Mayonnaise  Dressing.  Garnish 
with  halves  of  strawberries  and  chopped  pistachio 
nut  meats. 

Rosalie  Salad 

Cook  celery  roots  in  boiling  salted  water  to  cover. 
Drain,  chill  and  cut  in  thin  slices.  Drain  halves  of 
canned  peaches  and  fill  cavities  with  chopped  Pis- 
tachio nut  meats.  Cut  cold  boiled  beets  in  thin 
slices.  Arrange  prepared  vegetables  and  fruit  on  a 
bed  of  escarole,  and  when  thoroughly  chilled,  pour 
over  French  Dressing. 

Cherry  Nut  Salad        9  - 

Wipe  fresh  or  drain  canned  cherries.  Remove 
stones  and  fill  cavities  thus  made  with  pecan  nut 
meats.  Arrange  on  a  bed  of  crisp  lettuce  leaves 
and  garnish  with  cherries,  from  which  the  stems  have 


206  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

not  been  removed,  if  any  are  at  hand.    Serve  with 
Cream  Mayonnaise. 

Rochester  Salad 

Remove  pimientos  from  can,  drain  thoroughly  and 
dry  on  a  towel.  Line  timbale  moulds  with  pimientos 
and  pack  solidly  with  the  following  mixture:  Work 
a  small  cream  cheese  until  smooth,  add  two  table- 
spoons pecan  nut  meats,  broken  in  pieces,  and 
moisten  with  French  Dressing.  Chill  thoroughly, 
remove  from  moulds  and  cut  in  one-third-inch  slices 
crosswise.  Arrange  for  individual  service  on  crisp 
lettuce  leaves,  allowing  three  slices  for  each  portion. 
Serve  with  California  French  Dressing. 

Cheese  and  Apple  Salad 

Wipe  and  pare  apples  and  shape  with  a  French 
vegetable  cutter,  having  twenty-four  small  balls; 
then  marinate  with  French  Dressing  and  let  stand 
until  chilled. 

Mash  a  cream  cheese  and  add  one  teaspoon,  each, 
Worcestershire  Sauce  and  salt,  and  one  tablespoon 
chopped  canned  pimiento.  Shape  into  twelve  balls, 
same  size  as  apple  balls.  Arrange  on  bed  of  lettuce 
leaves  and  garnish  with  strips  of  canned  pimiento. 
Serve  with  French  Dressing. 

Campestris  Salad 

Mash  a  five  cent  Neufchatel  cheese,  season  with 
one-fourth  teaspoon  salt  and  one-eighth  teaspoon 


(IRAPE  FHLIT  JELLY  SALAD.  —  lJayc2Q7. 


BANANA  SALAD.  —  Page  208. 


GINGER  ALE  SALAD.  —  Page  209. 


Los  ANGELES  FRUIT  SALAD.  —  Page  208. 


SALADS  207 

paprika  and  moisten  with  one-half  tablespoon 
French  Dressing.  Shape  to  represent  mushroom 
caps  and  stems,  roll  in  finely  chopped  salted 
almonds  put  through  a  puree  strainer  and  put 
caps  on  stems.  Place  on  thin  unsweetened  wafer 
crackers  around  a  basket  (made  from  the  skin  of 
an  orange),  filled  with  Red  Bar-le-duc  Currants, 
and  garnish  with  sprigs  of  green.  Pass  with  dressed 
lettuce. 

Grape  Fruit  Jelly  Salad 

Mash  a  large  cream  cheese,  moisten  with  heavy 
cream,  and  season  highly  with  salt,  pepper  and 
onion  juice.  Pipe  around  a  mould  of  Grape 
Fruit  Jelly,  sprinkle  with  chopped  English  wal- 
nut meats,  and  garnish  with  watercress.  Serve 
with  Huntington  French  Dressing,  made  by  mix- 
ing one-half  teaspoon  salt,  one-fourth  teaspoon 
paprika,  one  tablespoon,  each,  vinegar  and  lemon 
juice,  and  four  tablespoons  olive  oil.  Stir  until  well 
blended. 

Grape  Fruit  Jelly.  —  Put  one-third  cup  sugar  in 
small  saucepan,  pour  over  one-third  cup  water,  bring 
to  the  boiling  point  and  let  boil  three  minutes. 
Remove  from  range,  add  one  and  one-half  table- 
spoons granulated  gelatine,  soaked  in  two  table- 
spoons cold  water,  one-half  cup  grape  fruit  juice, 
one  tablespoon  lemon  juice  and  a  few  grains  salt. 
Strain  into  a  bowl. 


208  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

Moquin  Salad 

Drain  slices  of  canned  pineapple,  cut  in  halves, 
crosswise,  and  arrange  for  individual  service  on 
lettuce  leaves. 

Work  a  cream  cheese  and  moisten  with  French 
Dressing.  Force  through  a  potato  ricer  over  pine- 
apple. Serve  with  French  Dressing. 

The  New  Vanderbilt  Salad 

Arrange  thin  slices  of  fresh  pineapple  (cut  crosswise 
of  fruit  with  centre  removed)  on  nests  of  lettuce 
leaves.  Pile  in  centre  celery  cut  in  thin  one  and 
one-half  inch  Julienne-shaped  pieces  mixed  with  an 
equal  measure  of  chopped  English  walnut  meats. 
Garnish  pineapple  circle  at  equal  distances  with  two 
sections,  each,  of  grape  fruit  and  orange.  Serve 
with  Cream  Mayonnaise  (see  The  Boston  Cooking- 
School  Cook  Book,  p.  327). 


Banana  Salad 


Remove  skins  from  bananas,  scrape,  using  a  silver 
knife,  and  cut  in  thirds  crosswise;  then  cut  each 
third  in  pieces  lengthwise,  and  roll  in  finely  chopped 
peanuts.  Arrange  with  slices  of  tangerine  on  a  bed 
of  lettuce  leaves  and  pour  over  French  Dressing. 

v\  Los  Angeles  Fruit  Salad 

Cut  marshmallows  in  thin  strips;  there  should  be 
one  and  three-fourths  cups.  Add  one  slice  canned 


SALADS  209 

pineapple,  drained  and  cut  in  small  cubes,  two  and 
three-fourths  cups  Malaga  grapes,  skinned,  seeded 
and  cut  in  halves,  one-half  cup  English  walnut  meats, 
cut  in  pieces,  and  a  few  grains  salt. 

Make  cups  of  halves  of  orange  peel,  arrange  on 
nests  of  lettuce  leaves  and  fill  with  mixture.  Cover 
with  Cream  Salad  Dressing  and  garnish  top  of  each 
with  thin  strips  of  canned  pimiento,  one-half  grape, 
skinned  and  seeded,  and  finely  chopped  parsley. 

Fruit  and  Ginger  Ale  Salad 

Soak  two  tablespoons  granulated  gelatine  in  two 
tablespoons  cold  water  and  dissolve  in  one-third 
cup  boiling  water;  then  add  one  cup  ginger  ale,  one- 
fourth  cup  lemon  juice,  two  tablespoons  sugar  and  a 
few  grains  salt.  Let  stand  until  mixture  begins  to 
set  and  fold  in  one-third  cup  Malaga  grapes,  skinned, 
seeded  and  cut  in  halves,  one-third  cup  celery,  cut  in 
slices  crosswise,  one-third  cup  apple,  cored,  pared 
and  cut  in  Julienne-shaped  pieces,  two  tablespoons 
Canton  ginger,  cut  in  small  pieces,  and  four  table- 
spoons canned,  shredded  pineapple. 

Turn  into  a  border  mould,  chill  and  remove  to 
serving  dish.  Garnish  with  parsley  and  celery  tips. 
In  centre  place  small  dish,  fill  with  Cream  Mayon- 
naise Dressing  and  garnish  with  curled  celery. 

Runnymede  Salad 

Wipe  two  long  cucumbers,  remove  a  thick  slice, 
from  each  end  and  cut  crosswise  in  two-inch  pieces,. 


210  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

Remove  centres,  leaving  cups.  Cut  white  meat  of 
cold  cooked  chicken  in  thin  slices,  then  in  one-half- 
inch  squares;  there  should  be  one-half  cup.  Mix 
with  an  equal  measure,  each,  of  cold  boiled  potatoes 
and  artichoke  bottoms,  cut  in  the  same  fashion,  and 
two  tablespoons  truffle,  cut  in  small  pieces.  Moisten 
with  Chutney  Mayonnaise  (see  p.  214)  and  fill  cups. 
Arrange  on  nests  of  lettuce  leaves. 

After  Theatre  Salad 

Cook  salt  herring  in  boiling  water  to  cover,  fifteen 
minutes.  Drain,  cool  and  separate  into  flakes; 
there  should  be  one  cup.  Add  an  equal  measure  of 
one-third-inch  cubes  of  cold  boiled  potatoes  and  one- 
fourth  the  measure  of  finely  chopped  whites  of  hard- 
boiled  eggs.  Mix  thoroughly,  moisten  with  French 
Dressing,  cover  and  let  stand  in  a  cold  place  one  hour. 
Beat  one-fourth  cupjieavy  cream  until  stiff  and  add 
two  tablespoons  canned  pimiento  puree.  Mix  with  an 
equal  measure  of  Mayonnaise  Dressing,  moisten  mix- 
ture with  dressing  and  mound  on  a  nest  of  lettuce 
leaves. 

Potato  and  Egg  Salad 

Cut  cold  boiled  potatoes  in  one-half-inch  cubes; 
there  should  be  one  and  one-half  cups.  Add  one 
canned  pimiento,  drained  and  cut  in  thin  strips,  and 
two  slices  onion,  finely  chopped.  Moisten  with 
Waltham  Salad  Dressing  (see  p.  216),  arrange  in 
a  mound  and  garnish  with  three  hard-boiled  eggs. 


SALADS  211 

Chop  whites  and  arrange  on  two-fourths  of  the  mound 
opposite  each  other;  force  yolks  through  a  potato 
ricer  and  arrange  on  other  two-fourths.  Put  single 
sprigs  of  parsley  in  lines  dividing  whites  from  yolks. 
Garnish  top  with  a  slice  of  hard-boiled  egg  and 
parsley. 

Shad  Roe  Salad 

In  each  of  six  well-buttered  cups  or  other  individ- 
ual moulds  drop  the  white  of  an  egg.  Sprinkle 
with  salt  and  pepper  and  in  centre  of  each  place  a 
one-inch  piece  of  cooked  shad  roe.  Set  moulds  in 
pan  of  hot  water  and  bake  until  white  is  set.  Re- 
move from  moulds  and  marinate  with  French 
Dressing. 

When  thoroughly  chilled,  arrange  in  nests  of  lettuce 
leaves  and  garnish  with  Mayonnaise  Dressing,  forced 
through  a  pastry  bag  and  tube,  and  thin  strips  of 
red  pepper. 

Mock  Chicken  Salad 

2  cups  J^-inch  cubes  roast  pork 
1  cup  celery,  cut  in  small  pieces 
4  stoned  and  chopped  olives 
}/2  red  pepper 

Mix  pork  cubes,  celery  and  olives  and  add  one- 
half  of  the  pepper,  which  has  been  washed,  parboiled 
and  seeds  removed,  then  cut  in  thin  strips.  Moisten 
with  Mayonnaise  or  Waltham  Salad  Dressing. 
Mound  in  salad  bowl  and  garnish  with  celery  tips 
and  remaining  strips  of  red  pepper. 


CHAPTER   XX 

SALAD   DRESSINGS 

Martinique  French  Dressing 

French  Dressing  (see  The  Boston  Cooking- 
School  Cook  Book,  p.  323)  add  one-half  tea- 
spoon finely  chopped  parsley  and  one-half  table- 
spoon finely  chopped  green  pepper. 

Breslin  French  Dressing 

To  French  Dressing  add  one-half  tablespoon 
chopped  pistachio  nuts  and  one-fourth  teaspoon 
finely  chopped  truffle. 

Red  Wine  French  Dressing 

3/2  teaspoon  salt  2  tablespoons  red  wine  vinegar 

%  teaspoon  paprika  4  tablespoons  olive  oil 

Mix  ingredients  in  order  given,  and  stir  until  well 
blended. 

California  French  Dressing 

4  tablespoons  olive  oil  3^  teaspoon  powdered 

2  tablespoons  grape  fruit  sugar 

juice  Y^  teaspoon  salt 

34  teaspoon  paprika 


SALAD  DRESSINGS  213 

Mix  ingredients  in  order  given.     Put  in  a  glass 
jar,  chill  thoroughly  and  shake  well  before  using. 

Cream  French  Dressing 

Y2  teaspoon  salt  2  tablespoons  lemon  juice 

K  teaspoon  pepper  4  tablespoons  olive  oil 

3  tablespoons  heavy  cream 

Mix  ingredients  and  stir  until  well  blended. 

Tabasco  French  Dressing 

4  tablespoons  olive  oil  ^  teaspoon  salt 

2  tablespoons  lemon  juice  H  teaspoon  pepper 

1  teaspoon  powdered  sugar  5  drops  Tabasco  Sauce 

Mix  ingredients  in  order  given.    Chill  and  shake 
vigorously  before  using. 

Columbia  French  Dressing 

1  teaspoon  salt  1  tablespoon  Worcestershire 

1  teaspoon  mustard  Sauce 

Yz  teaspoon  onion  juice         2  tablespoons  lemon  juice 
6  tablespoons  olive  oil 

Mix  ingredients  in  a  small  glass  jar,  set  in  a  cold 
place  and  shake  thoroughly  before  using. 

Chutney  Dressing 

Yz  teaspoon  salt  1  tablespoon  lemon  juice 

%  teaspoon  paprika  4  tablespoons  olive  oil 

1  tablespoon  vinegar  2i  cup  Col.  Skinner's 

Chutney 

Mix  first  five  ingredients  in  order  given,  and  when 
well  blended  add  chutney.    Serve  on  lettuce. 


214  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

Chiff onade  Dressing 

2  tablespoons  finely  chopped  2  hard-boiled  eggs  finely 
parsley  chopped 

2  tablespoons  finely  chopped  1  teaspoon  salt 

red  pepper  %  teaspoon  black  pepper 

1  teaspoon  finely  chopped  34  teaspoon  paprika 

shallot  5  tablespoons  olive  oil 
2  tablespoons  vinegar 

Mix  ingredients  in  order  given.  Turn  into  jar  or 
bottle,  cover  and  let  stand  in  ice  box  until  very  cold. 
Shake  thoroughly  before  using  as  a  dressing  for  let- 
tuce or  any  salad  green. 

Mayonnaise  Piquante 

To  one  cup  Mayonnaise  Dressing  add  two  table- 
spoons, each,  olives  and  pickles,  finely  chopped. 

Mayonnaise  a  la  Connelly 

To  one  cup  Mayonnaise  Dressing  add  one-half 
cup  cold  boiled  rice. 

Chutney  Mayonnaise 

To  one  cup  Mayonnaise  Dressing  add  one  and  one- 
half  tablespoons  chutney,  and  stir  until  thoroughly 
blended. 

v  Denver  Cream  Salad  Dressing 

1  tablespoon  mustard  2  tablespoons  lemon  juice 

1  teaspoon  salt  1  cup  heavy  cream 

Mix  mustard  and  salt  and  moisten  with  lemon 
juice;  then  add  two  tablespoons  cream.  Beat  re- 


SALAD  DRESSINGS  215 

maining  cream  until  it  begins  to  thicken,  then  add 
mixture  gradually,  while  beating  constantly,  con- 
tinuing the  beating  until  mixture  is  stiff  enough  to 
hold  its  shape. 

/  Horseradish  Cream  Dressing 

Yz  cup  heavy  cream  34  teaspoon  salt 

3  tablespoons  vinegar  Few  grains  pepper 

2  tablespoons  grated  horseradish  root 

Beat  cream  until  it  begins  to  thicken;  then  add 
gradually  vinegar,  while  continuing  the  beating. 
When  mixture  is  stiff,  add  seasonings  and  fold  in 
grated  horseradish. 

/  Fruit  Salad  Dressing 

2  eggs  J4  cup  powdered  sugar 

3  tablespoons  melted  butter  YL  teaspoon  celery  salt 
3  tablespoons  lemon  juice  YL  teaspoon  vanilla 

Yz  teaspoon  salt  34  teaspoon  paprika 

1  cup  heavy  cream  3  drops  onion  juice 

Beat  eggs  until  very  light,  and  add  gradually,  while 
beating  constantly,  melted  butter,  lemon  juice  and 
salt.  Cook  over  hot  water,  stirring  constantly, 
until  mixture  thickens.  Cool  and  add  cream,  beaten 
until  stiff,  and  remaining  ingredients. 

Los  Angeles  Dressing 

Yolks  4  eggs  1  teaspoon  mustard 

%  cup  olive  oil  Few  grains  cayenne 

1  tablespoon  lemon  juice  1  cup  heavy  cream 

1  YL  tablespoons  vinegar  1  teaspoon  sugar 

1  teaspoon  salt 

1  YL  tablespoons  grated  horseradish  root 


216  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

Beat  yolks  of  eggs  slightly  and  add  oil,  lemon 
juice,  vinegar,  salt,  mustard  and  cayenne.  Cook 
in  double  boiler,  stirring  constantly,  until  mixture 
thickens.  Chill  and  add  cream,  beaten  until  stiff, 
sugar  and  horseradish. 

v  Cream  Salad  Dressing 

34  teaspoon  mustard  2  eggs 

%  teaspoon  salt  2  tablespoons  lemon  juice 

3^8  teaspoon  paprika  3^  cup  milk 

YL  pint  heavy  cream 

Mix  mustard,  salt  and  paprika,  and  when  thor- 
oughly blended,  add  eggs,  slightly  beaten,  lemon  juice 
and  milk.  Cook  in  double  boiler,  stirring  constantly, 
until  mixture  thickens.  Cool  and  add  cream,  beaten 
until  stiff. 

Ruthven  Salad  Cream 

Yi  tablespoon  salt  2  eggs  yolks 

3^  tablespoon  mustard  3  tablespoons  melted  butter 

%  tablespoon  sugar  %  cup  milk 

1  tablespoon  flour  34  cup  vinegar 

Mixdry  ingredients,  and  when  thoroughly  blended, 
add  egg  yolks,  slightly  beaten,  melted  butter,  milk 
and  vinegar.  Cook  in  double  boiler,  stirring  con- 
stantly, until  mixture  thickens.  Strain  and  cool. 

S  Waltham  Salad  Dressing 

*    1  cup  sour  cream  2  teaspoons  salt 

1  egg  2  teaspoons  sugar 

34  cup  vinegar  1  teaspoon  mustard 

Y%  teaspoon  pepper 


SALAD  DRESSINGS  217 

• 

To  cream  add  egg,  slightly  beaten,  vinegar  and 
remaining  ingredients,  thoroughly  mixed.  Cook 
in  double  boiler,  stirring  constantly,  until  mixture 
thickens. 

Ohio  Salad  Dressing 

1  tablespoon  powdered  sugar  1  tablespoon  olive  oil 

2  teaspoons  Worcestershire  Y^  teaspoon  salt 

Sauce  %  teaspoon  mustard 

2  teaspoons  Tomato  Catsup  Few  grains  cayenne 

1  I/L  tablespoons  vinegar  3  drops  Tabasco  Sauce 
l}/2  tablespoons  lemon  juice 

Mix  ingredients  and  stir  until  well  blended. 

Indian  Salad  Dressing 

Yolks  2  hard-boiled  eggs  ^  cup  olive  oil 

%  teaspoon  salt  1  tablespoon  red  pepper, 

l/2  teaspoon  powdered  sugar  finely  chopped 

%  teaspoon  paprika  1  tablespoon  green  pepper, 

Few  grains  cayenne  finely  chopped 

Few  grains  white  pepper  1  tablespoon  pickled  beets, 

1  tablespoon  lemon  juice  cut  in  small  cubes 

2  tablespoons  vinegar  1  teaspoon  finely  chopped 

parsley 

Force  egg  yolks  through  a  strainer  and  add  salt, 
sugar,  paprika,  cayenne,  white  pepper,  lemon  juice, 
vinegar  and  olive  oil.  Shake  thoroughly  and  add 
remaining  ingredients. 

Carlton  Salad  Dressing 

%  cup  Mayonnaise  1%  teaspoons  powdered  sugar 

Dressing  %  teaspoon  Worcestershire 

2  tablespoons  tomato  puree        Sauce 
YZ  tablespoon  lemon  juice    H  teaspoon  A.  I.  Sauce 


218  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

Mix  ingredients  in  order  given. 

To  obtain  tomato  puree  drain  one-half  can  toma- 
toes, put  in  saucepan,  bring  to  the  boiling  point  and 
let  simmer  until  reduced  one-half.  Force  through  a 
fine  strainer,  return  to  saucepan  and  let  simmer 
(having  an  asbestos  cover  under  saucepan)  until 
thick  in  consistency. 

Astoria  Salad  Dressing 

%  cup  Mayonnaise  2  tablespoons  Tomato  Catsup 

Dressing  ]/%  tablespoon  finely  chopped 

J^  cup  French  Dressing  green  pepper 

3  drops  Tabasco  Sauce 

Add  French  Dressing  slowly  to  Mayonnaise  Dress- 
ing, stirring  constantly;  then  add  remaining  ingre- 
dients. 


CHAPTER  XXI 

ENTREES 
Pear  Conde 

Put  one-half  teaspoon  salt  and  one  cup  boiling 
water  in  double  boiler,  place  on  range,  and  add,  grad- 
ually, one-half  cup  well-washed  rice,  stirring  with  a 
fork  to  prevent  adhering  to  boiler.  Boil  five  minutes, 
cover,  place  over  under  part  of  boiler  and  steam  until 
kernels  have  absorbed  water.  Then  add  one  and 
one-half  cups  milk  and  continue  the  steaming 
until  kernels  are  soft.  Add  three  tablespoons  sugar 
and  the  yolks  of  three  eggs,  slightly  beaten.  Mound 
on  a  flat  dish  in  conical  shape  and  place  on  rice  halves 
of  preserved  pears,  cooked  in  their  own  syrup,  to 
which  one-third  cup  sugar  has  been  added,  until  soft. 
Sprinkle  all  with  finely  chopped  Canton  ginger. 

Peach  Compote,  Peach  Sauce 

2  cups  milk  Whites  2  eggs 

Y^  cup  farina  6  peaches 

K  cup  sugar  3  tablespoons  water 

Yi  teaspoon  salt  6  tablespoons  sugar 

Scald  milk  and  add  farina  gradually,  while  stirring 
constantly.  When  mixture  thickens,  add  sugar  and 
salt  and  cook  in  double  boiler  .twenty  minutes; 


220  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

then  add  whites  of  eggs,  beaten  until  stiff.  Turn  into 
a  slightly  buttered  shallow  pan  and  keep  in  a  warm 
place  until  serving  time.  Remove  skin  from  peaches, 
put  in  saucepan  and  add  water  and  sugar;  cover  and 
cook  slowly  until  fruit  is  soft.  Cut  farina  in  squares, 
put  a  peach  on  each  square  and  pour  over  all : 

Peach  Sauce.  —  Dilute  one-half  tablespoon  corn- 
starch  with  one  tablespoon  cold  water.  Add  to 
syrup  remaining  in  saucepan,  bring  to  the  boiling 
point  and  let  boil  two  minutes;  then  pour  slowly, 
while  stirring  constantly,  over  the  yolks  of  two  eggs, 
beaten  until  thick  and  lemon-colored.  Add  two 
teaspoons  lemon  juice  and  a  few  grains  salt. 

Cheese  and  Pepper  Croquettes 

Wipe  small  Bell  peppers,  place  in  pan,  put  in  hot 
oven  and  turn  occasionally,  until  skins  blister. 
Take  from  oven,  remove  skins,  make  a  lengthwise 
slit  in  each  and  take  out  seeds.  Fill  with  Cheese 
Filling,  dip  in  crumbs,  egg  and  crumbs,  fry  in  deep 
fat  and  drain  on  brown  paper. 

Cheese  Filling.  —  Melt  one  and  one-half  table- 
spoons butter,  add  two  tablespoons  flour  and  stir 
until  well  blended;  then  add  one-third  cup  milk 
and  bring  to  the  boiling  point.  Add  one-fourth 
cup  grated  Gruyere  cheese  and  one  egg,  slightly 
beaten.  As  soon  as  cheese  melts  remove  from  fire 
and  fold  in  one-half  cup  small  cubes  of  soft  mild 
cheese.  Season  with  one-half  teaspoon  salt  and  a 
few  grains,  each,  of  pepper  and  cayenne. 


SCALLOPS  EN  BROCHETTE.  —  Page  223. 


CUTLETS  OF  HAM  ALEXANDRIA.  —  Page  234. 


CHICKEN  A  LA  KING.  —  Page  228. 


CHICKEN  AND  MUSHROOM  TIMBALES.  —  Page  230. 


ENTREES  221 

Cheese  Custard  Timbales,  Bread  Sauce 

4  eggs  3  tablespoons  grated  cheese 

%  cup  cold  water  ^  teaspoon  salt 

Yz  cup  heavy  cream  Y%  teaspoon  pepper 

2*^  tablespoons  melted  Few  grains  cayenne 

butter  Few  drops  onion  juice 

Beat  eggs  slightly  and  add  remaining  ingredients. 
Strain  into  buttered  individual  moulds,  set  in  pan  of 
hot  water  and  bake  until  firm.  Remove  to  hot  serv- 
ing dish,  pour  around  Bread  Sauce  (see  p.  155)  and 
garnish  with  parsley. 

Eggs  en  Surprise 

Cut  stale  bread  in  two-inch  slices  and  then  in 
circular  or  elliptical  shapes.  Remove  centres,  leav- 
ing cases.  Fry  in  deep  fat  until  delicately  browned 
and  drain  on  brown  paper.  Half  fill  cases  thus 
made  with  Creamed  Asparagus  tips.  French 
poach  six  eggs,  coat  with  egg  (slightly  beaten  and 
diluted  with  one  tablespoon  cold  water),  roll  in  bread 
crumbs  to  which  has  been  added  Parmesan  cheese 
(allowing  two  tablespoons  cheese  to  three-fourths 
cup  crumbs)  and  fry  one  minute  in  very  hot  deep  fat. 
Drain  and  arrange  in  croustades.  Garnish  with 
parsley. 

Chaudf roid  Eggs  Alexandria 

French  poach  six  eggs,  trim  into  shape  and  let 
cool.  Melt  one  tablespoon  butter,  add  one  table- 
spoon flour  and  stir  until  well  blended;  then  pour 
on  gradually,  while  stirring  constantly,  one  cup 
chicken  stock.  Bring  to  the  boiling  point  and  add 


222  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

one-fourth  teaspoon  salt,  one-eighth  teaspoon  pepper, 
a  few  grains  cayenne  and  one  tablespoon  granulated 
gelatine.  Coat  eggs  with  sauce  and  when  sauce  has 
become  firm,  place  each  egg  in  a  puff  paste  case  made 
of  correct  size.  Garnish  with  thin  slices  of  truffle 
cut  in  fancy  shapes,  and  around  each  pipe  a  border 
of  caviare  butter. 

Stuffed  Mushroom  Caps 

Wipe,  peel  and  remove  centres  from  six  large 
mushroom  caps.  Cook  two  tablespoons,  each, 
chopped  mushrooms,  bread  crumbs,  chopped,  lean, 
cooked  ham  and  finely  chopped  onion,  and  one  tea- 
spoon, each,  Parmesan  cheese  and  finely  chopped 
parsley  with  three  tablespoons  butter,  three  minutes. 
Moisten  with  one-fourth  cup  tomato  sauce  and 
season  with  salt,  pepper  and  cayenne.  Stuff  prepared 
caps  with  mixture  and  sprinkle  with  one-third  cup 
bread  crumbs  mixed  with  one  and  one-half  table- 
spoons Parmesan  cheese.  Arrange  in  pan,  surround 
with  three-fourths  cup  tomato  sauce  and  bake  in  a 
hot  oven  twenty  minutes.  Remove  to  six  rounds  of 
sauted  bread,  cut  somewhat  larger  than  caps,  and 
pour  around  sauce  remaining  in  pan.  Garnish  with 
parsley. 

Shrimps,  Louisiana  Style 

2  tablespoons  butter  %  cup  heavy  cream 

1  tablespoon  chopped  onion  J<£  teaspoon  salt 

2£  cup  canned  shrimps  %  teaspoon  celery  salt 

%  cup  hot  boiled  rice  Few  grains  cayenne 

3  tablespoons  tomato  sauce 


ENTRIES  223 

Cook  butter  with  onion  five  minutes,  stirring  con- 
stantly. Add  shrimps,  broken  in  pieces,  rice  and 
heavy  cream.  When  thoroughly  heated,  add  salt, 
celery  salt,  cayenne  and  tomato  sauce.  Turn  on  a 
hot  serving  dish  and  garnish  with  puff  paste  cres- 
cents and  parsley. 

Scallops  en  Brochette 

Clean  scallops,  put  in  saucepan  and  cook  until 
they  begin  to  shrivel.  Drain  and  dry  on  a  towel. 
Alternate  scallops  and  pieces  of  thinly  sliced  bacon 
on  skewers,  allowing  four  scallops  and  five  pieces 
bacon  to  each  skewer.  Balance  skewers  in  up- 
right position  by  putting  through  cubes  of  bread 
placed  on  rack  in  dripping  pan  and  bake  in  a  hot 
oven  until  bacon  is  crisp.  Arrange  on  serving  dish 
and  garnish  with  lemon  and  parsley. 

Scallops  a  la  Newburg 

1  pint  scallops  1  teaspoon  lemon  juice 

3  tablespoons  butter  1  teaspoon  flour 

}/<i  teaspoon  salt  ^  cup  thin  cream 

Few  grains  cayenne  2  egg  yolks 

2  tablespoons  Sherry  wine 

Put  scallops  in  omelet  pan  and  cook  until  they 
begin  to  shrivel;  drain  thoroughly,  cut  in  halves, 
and  cook  in  two  tablespoons  butter  three  minutes. 
Add  salt,  cayenne  and  lemon  juice  and  cook  one 
minute. 

Melt  remaining  butter,  add  flour  and  stir  until 


224  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

blended;  then  pour  on  gradually,  while  stirring 
constantly,  cream.  Bring  to  the  boiling  point 
and  add  egg  yolks,  slightly  beaten,  scallops  and 
wine. 

Oyster  and  Shrimp  Newburg 

1  pint  oysters  2  egg  yolks 

1  can  shrimps  }/%  teaspoon  salt 

M  cup  Sherry  Nutmeg 

Y±  cup  butter  Paprika 


tablespoons  flour  Cayenne 


few  grains  each 


1  cup  cream  2  tablespoons  brandy 

Wash  and  parboil  oysters  and  drain  from  their 
liquor.  Clean  and  break  shrimps  in  small  pieces. 
Mix  oysters  and  shrimps,  add  wine,  cover  and  let 
stand  one  hour.  Put  in  blazer,  add  butter  and  cook 
five  minutes.  Sprinkle  with  flour  and  cook  two  min- 
utes. Add  three-fourths  cup  cream  and  when  mix- 
ture has  thickened,  add  egg  yolks,  slightly  beaten  and 
diluted  with  remaining  cream;  then  add  seasonings 
and  serve  on  toast  or  in  puff  paste  shells. 

Oyster  Crabs,  Bearnaise 

Wash  and  pick  over  one  pint  oyster  crabs.  Put 
in  saucepan,  place  on  range,  and  add  one-half  cup 
Sherry  wine,  one  tablespoon  butter,  one-half  teaspoon 
salt  and  one-fourth  teaspoon  paprika.  Light  Sherry 
and  let  burn  two  minutes.  Turn  on  serving  dish, 
pour  over  Bearnaise  Sauce  II  (see  p.  158)  and  garnish 
with  puff  paste  points. 


L  r*^****,~- .. 

LINING  OF  MOULD  FOR  TRAYMORE  TIM  BALES.  —  Page  231. 


TRAYMORE  TIMBALES.  —  Page  231. 


LOBSTER  BOATS.  —  Page  225. 


CRAB  AND  MUSHROOM  VOL-AU-VENT.  —  Page  233. 


ENTRIES  225 

Hampden  Halibut  en  Coquilles 

Yz  cup  cold  flaked  halibut  Y*  teaspoon  salt 

3  tablespoons  butter  ^  teaspoon  paprika 

\l/2  tablespoons  flour  Few  grains  cayenne 

\Yz  tablespoons  comstarch  %  cup  canned  mushrooms 

J/£  cup  fish  stock  Whites  2  eggs 

%  cup  mushroom  liquor  %  cup  grated  cheese 

Yz  cup  cream  l/%  teaspoon  paprika 

Yolks  2  eggs  Few  grains  salt 

Melt  butter,  add  flour  and  stir  until  well  blended; 
then  pour  on  gradually,  while  stirring  constantly, 
fish  stock,  mushroom  liquor  and  cream.  Bring  to  the 
boiling  point  and  add  egg  yolks,  slightly  beaten, 
salt,  pepper  and  paprika;  then  add  flaked  fish 
and  mushrooms  cut  in  thin  slices.  Fill  buttered 
shells  with  mixture,  cover  with  whites  of  eggs,  beaten 
until  stiff,  mixed  with  cheese  and  seasoned  with 
paprika  and  salt.  Sprinkle  with  more  cheese  and 
bake  until  well  browned. 

Lobster  Boats 

2  tablespoons  butter  Few  grains  soda 

1  tablespoon  chopped  onion  Salt 

%  cup  hot  boiled  rice  Celery  salt 

1  %  cups  lobster  dice  Cayenne 

%  cup  Tomato  Sauce  ^  cup  heavy  cream 

Cook  butter  with  onion  five  minutes,  stirring  con- 
stantly. Add  lobster,  rice  and  cream.  When 
heated,  add  Tomato  Sauce  (to  which  soda  has  been 
added)  and  season  highly  with  salt,  celery  salt  and 
cayenne. 


226  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

Fill  pastry  boats  with  mixture,  garnish  with  tail 
pieces  and  tips  of  lobster  claws  and  pour  around 
Tomato  Sauce.  Insert  sails  made  of  rice  paper  and 
small  wooden  skewers,  covering  skewers  with  thin 
white  cardboard  (which  will  keep  in  place  if  simply 
folded  over). 

Eclairs  of  Chicken  Mayonnaise 

%  cup  butter  2  eggs 

Yz  cup  boiling  water  1  cup  cold  cooked  chicken, 

Yz  cup  flour  cut  in  small  cubes 

3^  cup  Mayonnaise  Dressing 

Put  butter  and  water  in  saucepan  and  place  on 
range;  when  boiling  point  is  reached,  add  flour 
(all  at  once)  and  stir  until  mixture  is  well  blended 
and  leaves  sides  of  pan.  Remove  from  fire  and  add 
eggs,  one  at  a  time,  beating  vigorously  between  the 
additions.  Shape  on  a  buttered  sheet,  three  and  one- 
half  inches  long  by  one  and  one-half  inches  wide, 
and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  twenty-five  minutes. 
Cool,  split  and  fill  with  chicken  mixed  with  mayon- 
naise. 

Chicken  Croquettes,  Macedoine 

3  tablespoons  butter  Yolks  3  eggs 

1  shallot,  finely  chopped  1  cup  cold  cooked  chicken, 

Y±  cup  flour  cut  in  dice 

1  teaspoon  salt  Y<L  cup  boiled  ham,  cut  in 

Y±  teaspoon  paprika  dice 

Y%  teaspoon  pepper  M  cup  mushrooms,  cut  in 

Few  gratings  nutmeg  small  pieces 

1  cup  chicken  stock  1  tablespoon  Madeira  wine 


ENTRIES  227 

Melt  butter,  add  shallot  and  cook  three  min- 
utes, stirring  constantly.  Add  flour,  mixed  with 
seasonings,  and  stir  until  well  blended;  then 
pour  on  gradually,  while  stirring  constantly, 
chicken  stock.  Bring  to  the  boiling  point,  and 
add  remaining  ingredients,  except  wine,  and  cook 
five  minutes.  Add  wine  and  spread  on  a  plate 
to  cool.  Shape,  roll  in  flour,  eggs  and  crumbs,  fry 
in  deep  fat  and  drain  on  brown  paper.  Mound 
in  centre  of  heated  flat  dish  and  surround  with 
hot  seasoned  vegetables,  including  peas,  small  car- 
rot cubes,  and  cauliflower  flowerets.  Garnish  with 
parsley. 

Macedoine  Loaf 

%  tablespoon  butter  H  cup  mushroom  caps 

H  tablespoon  flour  1  tablespoon  canned  pimiento 

^  cup  milk  H  cup  heavy  cream 

Yi  cup  bread  crumbs  1  ^  teaspoons  salt 

Yolks  2  eggs  1  teaspoon  parsley,  finely 

1  cup  cooked  macaroni  .              chopped 

}/2  cup  cold  cooked  chicken     Whites  2  eggs 

Melt  butter,  add  flour  and  stir  until  well  blended; 
then  pour  on  gradually,  while  stirring  constantly, 
milk.  Bring  to  the  boiling  point  and  add  bread 
crumbs,  egg  yolks,  beaten  until  thick  and  lemon- 
colored,  macaroni  cut  in  one-half-inch  pieces,  chicken 
and  mushroom  caps,  cut  in  strips,  pimiento,  cut  in 
small  pieces,  cream,  beaten  until  stiff,  salt  and  par- 
sley. Stir  until  thoroughly  mixed  and  fold  in  whites 
of  eggs,  beaten  until  stiff.  Turn  into  a  mould  lined 


228  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

with  buttered  paper,  cover  with  buttered  paper  and 
bake  until  firm.  Remove  from  mould  to  hot  serving 
dish  and  garnish  with  parsley.  Serve  with  tomato  or 
white  sauce,  to  which  sauted  sliced  mushroom  caps 
have  been  added. 

Chicken  a  la  King 

\y<i  tablespoons  chicken  fat     1  cup  cold  boiled  fowl,  cut 

1  tablespoon  cornstarch  in  strips 

%  cup  chicken  stock  ^  cup  sauted  sliced  mush- 
3^  cup  milk  room  caps 

24  cup  cream  %  cup  canned  pimientoes, 
H>  teaspoon  salt  cut  in  strips 

2  tablespoons  butter  Yolk  1  egg 

Melt  chicken  fat,  add  cornstarch  and  stir  until 
well  blended;  then  pour  on  gradually,  while  stir- 
ring constantly,  stock,  milk  and  cream.  Bring  to 
the  boiling  point  and  add  salt,  butter  bit  by  bit, 
fowl,  mushroom  caps  and  pimientoes.  Again  bring 
to  the  boiling  point  and  add  egg  yolk,  slightly  beaten. 

Chop  Suey 

Remove  the  breast  meat  from  an  uncooked  chicken 
and  cut  in  strips  one  inch  long.  Melt  one  tablespoon 
butter,  add  chicken  meat  and  cook  two  minutes; 
then  add  three-fourths  cup  celery,  cut  in  thin  slices 
crosswise,  one  onion,  peeled  and  sliced,  and  six 
mushroom  caps  cut  in  slices.  Cook  five  minutes 
and  add  one  cup  chicken  stock,  one-half  teaspoon 
sugar,  two  teaspoons  Shoyu  Sauce,  one-half  green 


.SWEETBREADS  A  LA  ROOT.  —  Page  128. 


SWEETBREADS  MONROE.  —  Page  129. 


PEAR  CONDE,  COMPOTE  OF  RICE.  —  Page  219. 


WALDORF  SWEETBREADS.  —  Page  130. 


ENTRIES  229 

pepper  (from  which  seeds  have  been  removed), 
cut  in  thin  strips,  and  one  teaspoon  cornstarch, 
diluted  with  two  tablespoons  cold  water.  Bring  to 
the  boiling  point  and  let  simmer  three  minutes. 

Veal  Timbales 

1  Yz  cups  cold  cooked  veal  Few  grains  paprika 

Yolks  3  eggs  1  cup  white  sauce 

^  cup  heavy  cream  11A  tablespoons 
%  cup  white  wine  chopped  truffle 

2/6  teaspoon  salt  " 

Force  remnants  of  veal  through  a  meat  chopper; 
repeat.  Pound  in  a  mortar,  adding  gradually  the 
yolks  of  eggs,  slightly  beaten;  then  add  cream,  wine 
and  seasonings. 

Butter  individual  timbale  moulds  and  fill  one- 
fourth  full  of  white  sauce,  to  which  truffles  have  been 
added;  then  fill  with  chicken  mixture.  Set  moulds 
in  pan  of  hot  water,  cover  with  buttered  paper  and 
bake  until  firm.  Remove  from  moulds  to  hot  serv- 
ing dish,  when  sauce  will  run  down  sides  of  tim- 
bales.  For  the  white  sauce  melt  three  tablespoons 
butter,  add  three  tablespoons  flour  and  pour  on 
gradually,  while  stirring  constantly,  one  cup  milk. 
Bring  to  the  boiling  point  and  season  with  one-fourth 
teaspoon  salt  and  a  few  grains  pepper. 

Chicken  Rechauffe 

Make  same  as  Veal  Timbales,  using  chicken  in 
place  of  veal,  chicken  stock  in  place  of  white 


230  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

wine,   and  chopped  red  or  green  pepper  in  place 
of  truffles. 

Chicken  and  Mushroom  Timbales 
Garnish  bottom  of  buttered  timbale  moulds  with 
thin  slices  of  truffle,  cut  in  fancy  shapes.  Line 
moulds  with  Chicken  Forcemeat  II  (see  The  Boston 
Cooking-School  Cook  Book,  p.  150).  Fill  centres 
with  creamed  mushrooms  and  cover  with  forcemeat. 
Set  in  pan  of  hot  water,  cover  with  buttered  paper 
and  bake  until  firm.  Remove  to  serving  dish,  pour 
around  one  cup  cream  sauce,  to  which  has  been 
added  one  tablespoon  Madeira  wine,  and  garnish 
with  sprigs  of  parsley. 

Chicken  and  Liver  Timbales 

1  cup  chopped  cooked  chicken  1  teaspoon  salt 

Yz  cup  chopped  cooked  chicken  y±  teaspoon  paprika 

livers  y%  teaspoon  salt 

Yolks  3  eggs  y2  cup  heavy  cream 

3  tablespoons  white  wine  Whites  3  eggs 

Mix  chicken  and  livers  and  pound  in  a  mortar, 
adding  gradually  yolks  of  eggs  slightly  beaten,  and 
white  wine.  When  thoroughly  blended,  add  season- 
ings, heavy  cream,  beaten  until  stiff,  and  whites  of 
eggs,  beaten  until  stiff.  Turn  into  buttered  timbale 
moulds,  set  in  pan  of  hot  water,  cover  with  buttered 
paper  and  bake  until  firm. 

Remove  from  moulds  and  arrange  around  Creamed 
Mushrooms  (see  p.  170)  to  which  has  been  added 
one  tablespoon  Sherry  wine. 


ENTRIES  231 

Ham  Timbales 

1  cup  stale  bread  crumbs  ^  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  milk  1A  teaspoon  pepper 

4  tablespoons  butter  Whites  2  eggs 

1  cup  chopped  cooked  ham  2  hard-boiled  eggs 

Cook  bread  crumbs  and  milk  until  of  the  consis- 
tency of  a  smooth  paste.  Add  butter,  ham,  salt 
and  pepper;  then  cut  and  fold  in  whites  of  eggs, 
beaten  until  stiff.  Fill  buttered  individual  moulds 
two-thirds  full  of  mixture.  Set  in  pan  of  hot  water, 
cover  with  buttered  paper  and  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  until  firm,  the  time  required  being  about 
twenty  minutes.  Turn  on  a  hot  serving  dish  and 
garnish  with  slices  of  hard-boiled  eggs  and  sprigs  of 
parsley. 

Traymore  Timbales 

Cut  a  slice  from  the  stem  end  of  parboiled  green 
peppers  and  remove  seeds;  then  cut  in  thin  strips,  by 
working  around  and  around  the  pepper,  using  the 
scissors.  Line  the  sides  of  buttered  timbale  moulds 
with  the  pepper,  by  coiling  it  around  and  around,  and 
fill  with  the  following  mixture:  Peel  and  chop  mush- 
room caps;  there  should  be  one-fourth  cup.  Add  one 
tablespoon  butter  and  one  tablespoon  flour,  and  stir 
until  well  blended;  then  pour  on  gradually  one-fourth 
cup  cream.  Bring  to  the  boiling  point,  beat  in  the 
yolks  of  two  eggs,  one  at  a  time,  and  fold  in  the  whites 
of  two  eggs,  beaten  until  stiff.  Season  with  one-half 
teaspoon  salt,  one-eighth  teaspoon  pepper  and  a  few 
grains  paprika. 


232  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

Place  timbales  in  pan  of  hot  water,  cover  with 
buttered  paper  and  bake  until  firm.  Remove  to 
serving  dish  on  circular  pieces  of  sauted  bread, 
garnish  top  of  each  with  a  sauted  mushroom  cap 
and  pour  around 

Traymore  Sauce.  —  Melt  two  tablespoons  butter, 
add  two  tablespoons  flour  and  stir  until  well  blended; 
then  pour  on  gradually,  while  stirring  constantly, 
one-half  cup,  each,  chicken  stock  and  cream.  Bring 
to  the  boiling  point  and  add  one-half  teaspoon 
beef  extract,  one-half  teaspoon  salt  and  a  few  grains 
pepper. 

Salmon  Mayonnaise 

3  slices  salmon  1. sprig  parsley 

Cold  water  1  teaspoon  salt 

Yz  bay  leaf  y±  teaspoon  pepper 

2  cloves  %  cup  vinegar 

2  slices  lemon  %  cup  white  wine 

1  small  sliced  onion  1  cup  Mayonnaise  Dressing 

6  slices  carrot  1  teaspoon  granulated  gelatine 
Y<L  tablespoon  cold  water 

Wipe  salmon  cut  in  two-inch  slices  (each  weigh- 
ing two-thirds  pound),  put  in  a  pan,  cover  with 
cold  water  and  add  seasonings.  Let  stand  two  or 
three  hours;  then  cook  slowly  on  top  of  range  until 
fish  is  tender.  Take  from  pan,  remove  skin  and 
bones,  and  press,  using  the  hands,  to  keep  in  shape. 
Cool  and  cover  with  one  cup  Mayonnaise  Dressing, 
to  which  has  been  added  one-half  teaspoon  granu- 
lated gelatine  soaked  in  one  teaspoon  cold  water. 


ENTRIES  233 

Garnish  with  thin  slices  of  truffle,   cut  in  fancy 
shapes. 

English  Patties 

1  cup  cold  cooked  chicken,     %  teaspoon  salt 

cut  in  J4  inch  cubes  Y%  teaspoon  cayenne 

6  mushroom  caps  Y%  teaspoon  grated  nutmeg 

Yz  truffle  1  tablespoon  Sherry  wine 

2  tablespoons  butter  1  egg 

1  cup  chicken  stock  1  tablespoon  cream 

To  chicken  add  mushroom  caps,  peeled  and  cut 
in  cubes,  truffle,  cut  in  small  pieces,  and  butter. 
Cook  five  minutes,  stirring  almost  constantly;  then 
add  flour  and  when  well  blended,  pour  on  chicken 
stock  and  let  simmer  ten  minutes.  Season  with 
salt,  cayenne,  nutmeg  and  Sherry.  Beat  egg  slightly, 
dilute  with  cream  and  add.  When  thoroughly 
heated,  fill  six  patty  cases  with  mixture,  arrange 
on  serving  dish  and  garnish  with  parsley. 

Crab  and  Mushroom  Vol-au-Vent 

Melt  three  tablespoons  butter,  add  three  table- 
spoons flour  and  stir  until  well  blended;  then  pour 
on  gradually,  while  stirring  constantly,  one  cup 
chicken  stock  and  one-half  cup  cream.  Bring  to  the 
boiling  point  and  add  one  and  one-half  cups  crab 
meat  and  the  caps  from  one-half  pound  mushrooms, 
cut  in  strips  anci  sauted  in  butter.  As  soon  as 
thoroughly  heated,  add  one-half  cup  grated  Par- 
mesan cheese,  three  tablespoons  Sherry  wine,  one- 
half  teaspoon  salt  and  one-eighth  teaspoon,  each, 


234  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

pepper  and  paprika.  Fill  vol-au-vent  with  mix- 
ture. Adjust  cover  and  garnish  with  sprigs  of 
parsley. 

Ham  Mousse,  Epicurean  Sauce 

1  tablespoon  granulated  1  teaspoon  mixed  mustard 

gelatine  Few  grains  cayenne 

^  cup  hot  water  }/%  cup  heavy  cream 

2  cups  chopped,  cold  boiled  ham 

Dissolve  gelatine  in  hot  water  and  add  to  ham, 
which  has  been  pounded  in  a  mortar.  Season  with 
mustard  and  cayenne,  add  cream  beaten  until  stiff, 
and  turn  into  a  mould,  first  dipped  in  cold  water. 
Chill,  remove  from  mould,  garnish  with  parsley  and 
serve  with  Epicurean  Sauce  (see  p.  156). 

Cutlets  of  Ham,  Alexandria 

^  pound  lean  raw  ham  ^  cup  heavy  cream 

4  eggs  whites  Few  gratings  nutmeg 

Y%  teaspoon  pepper  Allemande  Sauce 

Asparagus  tips 

Finely  chop  ham,  add  the  unbeaten  egg  whites 
and  mix  to  a  smooth  paste.  Rub  through  a 
sieve,  add  seasonings  and  cream  a  little  at  a 
time.  Fill  slightly  buttered  cutlet  moulds,  set 
in  pan,  surround  with  hot  water,  cover  with 
buttered  paper  and  bake  until  firm.  Remove  to 
hot  serving  dish,  coat  with  Allemande  Sauce  and 
garnish  with  buttered  hot  asparagus  tips  and 
parsley. 


ENTRIES  235 

Shrimp  Patties 

1  \2  tablespoons  butter  Y±  teaspoon  paprika 

1^2  tablespoons  flour  Few  gratings  nutmeg 

%  cup  cream  1  cup  shrimps 

%  teaspoon  salt  %  cup  walnut  meats 

24  teaspoon  celery  salt  H  teaspoon  Orange  Curagoa 

Melt  butter,  add  flour  and  stir  until  well  blended; 
then  add  cream  gradually  while  stirring  constantly. 
Bring  to  boiling  point  and  add  salt,  celery  salt, 
paprika,  nutmeg  and  shrimps,  cut  in  halves.  Again 
bring  to  boiling  point  and  add  walnut  meats,  broken 
in  pieces,  and  orange  curacoa.  Reheat  patty  shells 
and  fill  with  mixture. 

Epicurean  Bouchees 

%  pound  mushroom  caps  %  teaspoon  paprika 

1  dozen  frogs'  legs  l/2  cup  Sherry  wine 
YZ  pound  crab  meat  1 J^  cups  cream 

2  tablespoons  melted  butter  1  tablespoon  cornstarch 
2  teaspoons  salt  1  tablespoon  cold  water 

Yolk  1  egg 

Clean  and  peel  mushroom  caps,  cut  in  one-fourth- 
inch  strips  crosswise,  and  saute  in  butter  three  min- 
utes. Clean  and  steam  frogs'  legs  until  tender,  then 
add  crab  meat,  butter,  salt,  paprika  and  Sherry 
wine.  Cover  and  let  stand  thirty  minutes.  Put  on 
range  and  cook  five  minutes.  Pour  off  one-half 
wine  and  add  mushrooms.  Scald  cream  in  double 
boiler;  dilute  cornstarch  with  cold  water,  add  grad- 
ually to  scalded  cream  and  cook  ten  minutes,  stirring 
constantly  until  mixture  thickens  and  afterwards 
occasionally;  then  add  yolk  of  egg,  slightly  beaten. 


236  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

Add  to  first  mixture,  reheat  and  season  highly  with 
salt  and  cayenne.  Fill  bouchee  cases  with  mixture 
or  serve  with  puff  paste  points. 

Sweetbread  and  Mushroom  Patties 

Parboil  one  sweetbread,  cool  and  cut  in  one-fourth- 
inch  pieces.  Clean  and  peel  ten  large  mushrooms 
and  cut  in  pieces.  Put  in  a  small  pan  and  add  one 
tablespoon  butter,  one  teaspoon  lemon  juice,  one- 
fourth  teaspoon  salt  and  a  few  grains  pepper. 
Cover  and  cook  fifteen  minutes,  stirring  occasion- 
ally. Melt  two  tablespoons  butter,  add  four  table- 
spoons flour  and  stir  until  well  blended;  then  pour 
on  gradually,  while  stirring  constantly,  one  cup 
chicken  or  brown  stock.  Bring  to  the  boiling  point, 
add  sweetbreads,  mushrooms  and  one  tablespoon 
heavy  cream.  Again  bring  to  the  boiling  point  and 
season  with  one-half  teaspoon  salt  and  a  few  grains, 
each,  pepper  and  paprika.  Line  patty-pans  with  puff 
paste,  fill  with  mixture,  cover  with  pastry  tops,  brush 
over  with  white  of  egg,  slightly  beaten,  and  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  twenty-five  minutes.  Serve  at  once. 

Huntingdon  Sweetbreads 

Parboil  one  pair  sweetbreads,  cool,  trim  and  lard 
upper  surface.  Clean  and  peel  twelve  mushroom 
caps  and  cook  in  two  tablespoons  butter  two  minutes. 
Add  one-fourth  cup  Sherry  wine  and  cook  five 
minutes. 

Wash  one-half  cup  butter,  put  in  a  mortar  with 


ENTRIES  237 

three  tablespoons  mashed,  boiled  sweet  potatoes, 
one-half  teaspoon  finely  cut  chives,  and  one  shallot 
and  one  clove  garlic,  each,  finely  chopped.  Work 
until  thoroughly  blended;  then  rub  through  a  sieve. 
Season  with  salt  and  paprika.  Cut  bread  in  one- 
third-inch  slices,  cut  in  rounds,  toast  on  one  side  and 
spread  untoasted  sides  with  prepared  butter.  Put 
in  four  individual  baking  dishes,  over  each  put  a  piece 
of  sweetbread,  over  sweetbread  arrange  mushroom 
caps  and  spread  with  remaining  butter.  Pour 
around  heavy  cream,  allowing  two  tablespoons  to 
each  portion.  Put  on  glass  covers  and  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  eight  minutes. 

Glazed  Sweetbread  Lucullus 

Trim  sweetbread  and  parboil  in  Sherry  wine  until 
plump,  the  time  required  being  about  one-half  hour. 
Keep  covered  during  the  cooking,  turning  twice. 
Cool  and  cut  in  pieces.  Put  one  and  one-half  table- 
spoons butter  in  frying  pan,  and  when  melted  add 
one-half  teaspoon  beef  extract.  Cook  sweetbread 
in  mixture  until  glazed,  turning  frequently.  Drain 
canned  artichoke  bottoms  and  reheat;  then  arrange 
on  circular  pieces  of  sauted  bread.  Place  pieces  of 
sweetbread  on  each  and  pour  around  Lucullus  Sauce 
made  by  adding  one  cup  chopped  sauted  mush- 
rooms to  one  cup  tomato  sauce. 

Macedoine  in  Aspic 

Put  three  cans  tomatoes  (quart  capacity)  in  stew- 
pan  and  bring  to  the  boiling  point.  Turn  into  a  puree 


238  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

strainer  and  force  through  most  of  the  pulp.  Add 
one  and  one-half  teaspoons  onion  juice,  one  and  one- 
half  tablespoons  salt,  one-half  cup  Sherry  wine  and 
a  few  grains  cayenne.  Soak  two  packages  granu- 
lated gelatine  in  one  cup  cold  water  and  add  to  mix- 
ture when  cool.  Clear,  using  the  white  and  shell  of 
three  eggs;  then  strain  through  four  thicknesses 
of  cheese-cloth,  placed  over  a  fine  strainer,  and  add 
one-third  cup  Sherry  wine.  Cut  cold  boiled  corned 
tongue  in  one-inch  strips;  there  should  be  one  and 
one-third  cups.  Peel  sixteen  small  tomatoes,  by  rub- 
bing over  the  entire  surface  with  the  dull  edge  of  a 
knife,  until  skins  may  be  easily  taken  off.  Finely 
chop  the  breast  meat  of  a  raw  chicken  and  force 
through  a  meat  chopper;  there  should  be  three- 
fourths  cup.  Pound  in  a  mortar  and  add  gradually 
whites  two  eggs  and  one-half  pint  heavy  cream. 
Season  highly  with  salt  and  cayenne  and  a  slight 
grating  of  nutmeg;  then  force  through  a  fine  strainer. 
Shape  mixture  with  a  pastry  bag  and  tube  on  but- 
tered paper,  making  quenelles.  Invert  paper  into  a 
kettle  of  boiling  salted  water  (when  forms  will  slip 
off  at  once)  and  cook  five  minutes.  Remove  with 
skimmer  and  drain  on  cheese-cloth.  Turn  an  ellip- 
tical mound  two  inches  high  of  cold  cooked  hominy 
on  a  serving  dish  and  spread  sides  with  parsley 
butter. 

Fill  an  elliptical-shaped  border  mould  with  tongue, 
tomatoes,  chicken  quenelles  and  aspic.  Fill  a  char- 
lotte russe  mould  that  will  just  fit  into  border  mould 


MOULDED  FISH  IN  ASPIC.  —  Page  239. 


DRESSED  CUCUMHER.  —  Page  19.5. 


PREPARATION  OF  STUFFED  SMOKED  TONGUE.  —  Page  241. 


SLICED  STUFFED  SMOKED  TONGUE.  —  Page  241. 


ENTRIES  239 

after  same  fashion.  Fill  a  muffin  tin  in  same  fashion. 
When  thoroughly  chilled,  turn  contents  of  border 
mould  on  hominy,  fill  space  with  thick  shaped  slice 
of  bread,  put  contents  of  charlotte  russe  mould 
on  top  and  surround  with  contents  of  muffin  tin. 
Garnish  with  spray  of  holly  and  serve  with  Mayon- 
naise a  la  Connelly  (see  p.  214). 

If  insides  of  moulds  are  rubbed  very  sparingly 
with  olive  oil,  there  will  be  no  trouble  in  removing 
the  contents. 

Moulded  Fish  in  Aspic 

Wipe  a  slice  of  halibut,  remove  skin  and  bones  and 
force  fish  through  a  meat  chopper;  there  should  be 
three-fourths  pound.  Melt  three-fourths  tablespoon 
butter,  add  six  tablespoons  flour  and  stir  until  well 
blended;  then  pour  on  gradually,  while  stirring 
constantly,  one-third  cup  fish  stock.  Bring  to  the 
boiling  point,  add  fish  and  pound  in  a  mortar  until 
thoroughly  blended.  Add  two  whole  eggs  and  three 
egg  yolks,  two  teaspoons  salt  and  one-fourth  tea- 
spoon pepper.  When  well  mixed,  add  one-half 
cup  heavy  cream.  Garnish  a  buttered  fish  mould 
with  truffle,  cut  in  slices,  then  in  strips  to  represent 
tail  and  fins,  and  small  crescent  shapes  to  represent 
scales.  During  the  process  of  garnishing,  the  pieces  of 
truffle,  after  being  placed,  should  be  frequently 
sprinkled  with  some  of  the  liquid  drained  from 
truffles,  otherwise  they  will  become  dry  and  curl. 
It  is  desirable  after  a  portion  is  completed  to  cover 


240  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

it  with  a  piece  of  cheese-cloth,  wrung  out  of  cold 
water,  for  the  same  reason. 

Fill  moulds  with  fish  forcemeat,  set  in  pan  of  hot 
water,  cover  with  buttered  paper  and  bake  until 
fish  is  firm  to  the  touch.  Remove  from  mould,  cool 
and  put  in  a  mould  of  aspic.  Chill  and  remove  from 
mould  to  serving  dish.  Garnish  with  watercress  and 
cucumber  ribbons. 

Fish  Aspic.  —  To  two  and  one-half  quarts  cold 
water  add  two  pounds  halibut  (cut  from  nape), 
wipe**' and  cut  in  small  pieces.  Add  liquor  drained 
frofry^ne  quart  canned  tomatoes,  one  onion  stuck 
with  three  cloves,  three-fourths  teaspoon  peppercorns, 
one-eighth  teaspoon  celery  salt,  two  allspice  berries 
and  one-fourth  cup  white  wine.  Cover,  bring  slowly 
to  the  boiling  point  and  let  simmer  two  hours. 
Strain,  cool  and  add  three-fourths  tablespoon  salt, 
one-fourth  teaspoon  pepper  and  two  tablespoons 
lemon  juice.  Soak  eight  tablespoons  granulated 
gelatine  in  one-fourth  cup  cold  water,  add  to  stock 
and  clear.  To  each  quart  of  cleared  stock  add  three 
tablespoons  white  wine  and  two  teaspoons  tarragon 
vinegar. 

Lobster  in  Aspic 

Wipe  and  cut  one  pound  halibut  (cut  from  nape) 
in  small  pieces.  Put  in  stewpan,  add  body  bones  and 
meat  contained  therein  of  two  one-and-one-half- 
pound  lobsters,  three  pints  cold  water,  bring  grad- 
ually to  the  boiling  point  and  let'simmer  one  and  one- 


ENTRIES  241 

half  hours.  Strain;  there  should  be  one  quart  fish 
stock.  Cook  two  tablespoons,  each,  chopped  carrot, 
onion,  and  celery,  two  sprigs  parsley,  bit  of  bay  leaf 
and  one  and  one-half  teaspoons  peppercorns  with 
one  cup  white  wine  eight  minutes.  Strain,  add  to 
fish  stock  and  season  with  salt,  cayenne  and 
lemon  juice.  Cool  and  add  one  box  granulated  gela- 
tine (which  has  been  soaked  in  one-fourth  cup  cold 
water  thirty  minutes)  and  whites  two  eggs.  Put 
on  range  and  stir  constantly  until  boiling  ~^'nt  is 
reached.  Remove  to  back  of  range  and  let  simi  ten 
minutes.  Strain  through  several  thicknesses  of 
cheese-cloth,  placed  over  a  fine  wire  strainer. 

Remove  meat  from  lobsters,  cut  in  pieces,  and  mar- 
inate with  a  French  Dressing,  substituting  lemon 
juice  for  vinegar.  Place  individual  moulds  in  pan  of 
ice  water,  cover  bottoms  with  jelly  mixture  and  when 
firm  garnish  with  tough  claw  meat  of  lobster,  and 
truffle,  cut  in  fancy  shapes.  Cover  with  jelly  mix- 
ture and  when  firm,  fill  with  lobster  meat,  mixed 
with  some  of  the  jelly  mixture,  just  as  it  is  ready 
to  set.  Chill  thoroughly,  remove  from  moulds,  place 
on  lettuce  leaves  and  serve  with  Mayonnaise 
Dressing. 

Stuffed  Smoked  Tongue 

Wash  a  smoked  tongue,  put  in  kettle,  cover  with 
cold  water,  bring  slowly  to  the  boiling  point,  cover 
and  let  simmer  until  meat  is  tender,  and  cool  in 
water  in  which  it  has  been  cooked.  Cut  off  root, 


242  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

then  thick  slice,  and  scoop  out  centre,  leaving  a  wall 
one-half  inch  in  thickness;  fill  cavity  with  force- 
meat, replace  thick  slice  and  fasten  with  small 
wooden  skewers.  Tie  in  cheese-cloth  and  steam  from 
forty-five  to  sixty  minutes.  Remove  from  cheese- 
cloth, take  off  skin,  brush  over  with  aspic  jelly, 
chill  thoroughly,  cut  in  slices  crosswise,  arrange 
overlapping  one  another,  lengthwise  of  platter,  and 
garnish  with  parsley  and  slice  of  lemon. 

Tongue  and  Chicken  Forcemeat. — Chop  the  breast 
of  a  raw  chicken,  pound  in  a  mortar,  and  add  grad- 
ually the  whites  of  two  eggs  and  work  until  smooth. 
Then  add  gradually  cup  heavy  cream  and  one-fourth 
cup  tongue,  removed  from  centre,  forced  through  a 
puree  strainer.  Season  highly  with  salt,  cayenne  and 
Sherry  wine. 

Boned  Turkey 

Singe,  remove  pinfeathers,  head,  neck,  tendons, 
feet  and  legs  to  second  joint  and  cut  off  wings  close 
to  body  of  a  small,  plump  turkey ;  then  bone 
(for  directions  see  The  Boston  Cooking-School  Cook 
Book,  p.  24).  Remove  and  set  aside  dark  meat, 
cut  breast  in  slices  and  arrange  in  a  layer  of  uniform 
thickness  over  body  skin.  Turn  in  small  pieces 
of  leg  and  wing  skin  remaining.  Spread  with  force- 
meat, draw  body  skin  over  forcemeat  and  sew  into 
shape.  If  turkey  is  allowed  to  stand  before  being 
spread  with  forcemeat,  it  must  be  covered  with  a 
double  thickness  of  cheese-cloth,  wrung  out  of  cold 


BONED  TURKEY.  —  Page  242. 


SLICES  OF  BONED  TURKEY  AND  CUBES  OF  GARNISHED  ASPIC.  —  Page  243. 


ENTREES  243 

water.  Tie  in  a  double  thickness  of  cheese-cloth. 
Put  bones  and  dark  meat  in  kettle,  pour  over  two 
quarts  water,  bring  to  the  boiling  point  and  steam 
prepared  turkey  (over  stock  thus  made)  until  tender; 
the  time  required  being  about  two  hours.  Remove, 
drain  thoroughly  and  let  stand  fifteen  minutes.  Take 
off  cloth  and  sew  securely  and  tightly  in  cheese-cloth 
wrung  out  of  cold  water. 

Put  between  two  boards,  place  a  weight  on  top 
and  let  stand  in  a  cold  place.  Take,  from  cheese- 
cloth and  pour  over  the  following  sauce:  Melt  one 
tablespoon  butter,  add  one  and  one-half  tablespoons 
flour  and  stir  until  well  blended;  then  pour  on  grad- 
ually, while  stirring  constantly,  one-half  cup  chicken 
stock.  Bring  to  the  boiling  point  and  add  one-half 
teaspoon  salt,  one-eighth  teaspoon  pepper,  one-half 
teaspoon  lemon  juice,  one  egg  yolk,  slightly  beaten 
and  diluted  with  one  tablespoon  cream  and  one 
teaspoon  granulated  gelatine,  dissolved  in  one 
tablespoon  hot  water.  Let  stand  until  mixture  be- 
gins to  thicken,  before  pouring  over  turkey.  Gar- 
nish with  truffles,  cut  in  fancy  shapes,  and  brush 
over  with  melted  aspic  jelly.  Place  on  serving  dish, 
surround  with  crisp,  small  lettuce  leaves  and  cubes 
of  aspic  jelly,  garnished  with  parsley  and  pimiento 
butter,  forced  through  a  pastry  bag  and  tube. 

Forcemeat. —  Force  one  and  one-half  pounds, 
each,  raw  lean  veal  and  meat  cut  from  fresh  fat 
pork  chops  through  a  meat  chopper;  then  force 
through  a  puree  strainer. 


244  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

Cook  one-half  cup  Sherry  wine  with  four  shallots, 
peeled  and  cut  in  pieces,  four  sprigs  parsley  and 
one-fourth  teaspoon  dried  tarragon  leaves,  until 
reduced  one-half.  Strain  through  cheese-cloth  and 
add  to  meat;  then  add  yolks  two  eggs,  slightly 
beaten,  one  cup  smoked  tongue,  cut  in  one-half- 
inch  cubes,  one-half  cup  blanched  pistachio  nuts, 
cut  in  pieces,  four  truffles,  cut  in  pieces,  one  tablespoon 
truffle  liquor  and  one  cup  one-half-inch  cubes  larding 
pork,  parboiled  two  minutes,  drained  and  thoroughly 
chilled.  Season  with  one  tablespoon  salt,  one-eighth 
teaspoon  cayenne,  one-half  teaspoon  grated  nutmeg, 
one-half  teaspoon  allspice  and  two  teaspoons  rum. 


CHAPTER    XXII 

HOT   PUDDINGS 

Emergency  Puddings 

1  cup  bread  flour  2  tablespoons  baking  powder 

Yi  teaspoon  salt  Milk 

Canned  peaches 

MIX  and  sift  flour,  salt  and  baking  powder  and 
moisten  to  a  soft  dough  with  milk,  the  amount 
required  being  about  one-third  cup.  Drop  a  table- 
spoonful  in  each  buttered  individual  mould,  add 
a  small  section  cut  from  a  canned  peach,  cover  with 
another  tablespoon  dough  and  steam  ten  minutes. 
Sections  of  other  canned  fruits  or  raspberry  or  black- 
berry jam  may  be  used  in  place  of  peaches.  Serve 
with  any  pudding  sauce. 

Broiled  Oranges  on  Toast 

Pare  oranges,  cut  in  one-half-inch  slices  and  re- 
move seeds.  Brush  over  with  melted  butter,  place 
in  a  buttered  broiler  and  broil  over  a  clear  fire  five 
minutes.  Remove  to  circular  pieces  of  sauted 
bread  and  sprinkle  with  grated  sweet  chocolate. 
Serve  with  whipped  cream,  sweetened  and  flavored 
with  vanilla. 


246  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

Snow  Eggs 

White  1  egg  Y%  teaspoon  cornstarch 

1  tablespoon  powdered  sugar     Egg  yolk 

Beat  egg  white  until  stiff  and  add  gradually,  while 
beating  constantly,  powdered  sugar  and  cornstarch. 
Butter  a  tablespoon,  cover  bowl  of  spoon  with  mix- 
ture, make  a  depression  in  the  centre  and  fill  cavity 
with  mixture,  to  which  has  been  added  enough  yolk 
of  egg  (beaten  until  thick  and  lemon-colored)  to 
give  color.  Cover  with  white  mixture,  having  the 
spoon  well  rounded.  Repeat  until  the  mixture  is 
used.  Cook  in  a  blazer  containing  boiling  water, 
placed  over  hot  water  pan  also  containing  boiling 
water,  and  cook  six  minutes,  turning  once  during 
the  cooking.  Cover  bottom  of  dish  with  strawberry 
preserve,  arrange  eggs  on  preserve  and  pour  around 
Orange  Sauce  (see  p.  258). 

Apple  Canapes,  Cream  Sabayon  Sauce 

Cut  bread  in  one-third-inch  slices,  shape  with  a 
round  cutter  and  saute  in  butter  until  delicately 
browned.  Pare  and  cut  apples  in  halves;  then 
remove  cores,  thus  making  cavities.  Saute  apples 
in  butter,  cavity  side  down,  in  a  covered  pan.  When 
apples  are  half  done,  turn,  fill  cavities  with  sugar 
and  continue  the  cooking  until  apples  are  soft. 
Place  on  prepared  bread  and  serve  with  Cream 
Sabayon  Sauce  I  (see  p.  263). 


HOT  PUDDINGS  247 

Apricot  Sandwiches,  Roxbury  Sauce 

1  egg  2  tablespoons  sugar 
Yolks  2  eggs  %  cup  milk 

Y±  teaspoon  salt  Slices  of  stale  bread 

Cut  stale  bread  (preferably  baker's)  in  one-fourth- 
inch  slices.  Remove  crusts  and  cut  slices  in  halves 
crosswise.  Beat  egg  and  egg  yolks  slightly,  add  salt, 
sugar  and  milk  and  strain  into  a  shallow  dish. 
Soak  bread  in  mixture  until  soft,  then  saute  in  butter. 
Spread  one-half  the  pieces  with  apricot  marmalade, 
cover  with  remaining  pieces  and  serve  with  Roxbury 
Sauce  (see  p.  259). 

Dresden  Sandwiches,  Sherry  Sauce 

3  eggs  1  cup  milk 

Yz  teaspoon  salt  6  slices  stale  bread, 

2  tablespoons  sugar  %  inch  thick 

Jam  or  marmalade 

Beat  eggs  slightly,  add  salt,  sugar  and  milk,  and 
when  well  blended,  strain  into  a  shallow  dish. 
Remove  crusts  from  bread  and  cut  slices  in  halves, 
crosswise.  Soak  bread  in  custard  mixture  until 
soft.  Cook  in  a  buttered,  hot  frying  pan.  Brown 
on  one  side,  turn  and  brown  other  side.  Spread 
half  the  pieces  with  any  jam  or  marmalade  that  may 
be  at  hand  and  cover  with  the  remaining  pieces. 
Serve  hot  with  Sherry  Sauce  (see  p.  260). 

Rhubarb  Tapioca  Pudding 

%  cup  pearl  tapioca-  3  cups  rhubarb 

1  \i  cups  boiling  water  1  %  cups  sugar 

%  teaspoon  salt 


248  A   NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

Soak  tapioca  in  cold  water  to  cover  over  night  or 
several  hours.  Drain,  put  in  double  boiler,  add 
boiling  water  and  salt  and  cook  until  tapioca  has 
absorbed  water.  Peel  rhubarb,  cut  in  three-fourths- 
inch  pieces  crosswise,  and  sprinkle  with  sugar. 
Add  to  tapioca  and  cook  until  tapioca  is  transparent 
and  rhubarb  is  soft.  Turn  into  a  fancy  dish  and  serve 
with  sugar  and  thin  cream. 

Fruit  Tapioca 

]/2  cup  pearl  tapioca  ^  cup  sherry  wine 

2^  cups  cold  water  Almonds 

3  teaspoons  salt  Seeded  raisins  |  ,  . 

1  inch  stick  cinnamon  Citron  }  *  CUp  each 

1  tumbler  currant  jelly  Sugar 

Soak  tapioca  in  cold  water  over  night  or  several 
hours.  Cook  in  same  water  in  double  boiler  with  salt 
and  cinnamon  until  transparent.  Remove  from  range 
and  add  currant  jelly,  Sherry  wine,  almonds  (blanched 
and  shredded),  raisins  (cut  in  pieces)  and  citron  (cut 
in  thin  slices).  Sweeten  to  taste.  Turn  into  a  serv- 
ing dish,  cool  slightly,  and  serve  with  thin  cream. 

Lemon  Cream  Rice 

Yz  cup  rice  %  teaspoon  salt 

3  cups  milk  Yolks  2  eggs 

2/2  cup  sugar  Whites  2  eggs 

Grated  rind  of  %  lemon  2  tablespoons  powdered 

1%  tablespoons  lemon  sugar 

juice  Y±  teaspoon  lemon  extract 

Pick  over  rice,  cover  with  cold  water  and  let  soak 
over  night.  Drain,  put  in  double  boiler,  add  milk 


HOT  PUDDINGS  249 

and  cook  until  rice  is  soft.  Add  sugar,  lemon  rind, 
lemon  juice,  salt  and  egg  yolks,  slightly  beaten. 
Cook  until  mixture  thickens,  turn  into  a  buttered 
pudding  dish  and  cool.  Beat  whites  of  eggs  until 
stiff  and  add  gradually  powdered  sugar  and  lemon 
extract.  Cover  top  of  pudding  with  meringue  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven  just  long  enough  to 
brown  meringue.  Serve  with  or  without  Straw- 
berry Sauce  (see  p.  257). 

Club  Indian  Pudding 

1  quart  scalded  milk  1  teaspoon  salt 

5  tablespoons  granulated  %  teaspoon  cinnamon 

Indian  meal  J^  teaspoon  ginger 

2  tablespoons  butter  2  eggs 

1  cup  molasses  1  cup  cold  milk 

Add  meal  gradually  while  stirring  constantly,  to 
scalded  milk  and  cook  in  double  boiler  fifteen  min- 
utes; then  add  butter,  molasses,  seasonings  and 
eggs,  well  beaten.  Turn  into  a  buttered  pudding 
dish  and  pour  on  cold  milk.  Bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  one  hour.  Serve  with  or  without  vanilla  ice 
cream. 

Squash  Pudding 

2^  cups  steamed  and  strained       1  teaspoon  salt 

squash  %  teaspoon  cinnamon 

y2  cup  sugar  2  eggs 

2*4  cups  milk 

Mix  sugar,  salt  and  cinnamon  and  add  to  squash; 
then  add  eggs,  slightly  beaten,  and  milk.  Turn 


250  A   NEW   BOOK  OF   COOKERY 

into  a  buttered  pudding  dish  and  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  until  firm.      Cool  slightly  before  serving. 

Sally's  Bread  Pudding 

2  cups  stale  bread  crumbs  Few  gratings  nutmeg 

1  quart  scalded  milk  %  teaspoon  soda 
Yolks  4  eggs  2  teaspoons  hot  water 

2  tablespoons  melted  butter  Whites  4  eggs 

Pour  milk  over  bread  crumbs,  cover  and  let  stand 
fifteen  minutes.  Add  yolks  of  eggs,  well  beaten,  but- 
ter, nutmeg  and  soda,  dissolved  jn  water;  then 
fold  in  whites  of  eggs,  beaten  until  stiff.  Turn 
into  a  buttered  pudding  dish  and  bake  in  a  mod- 
erate oven  forty-five  minutes.  Serve  hot  with  Rox- 
bury  Sauce. 

This  pudding  is  excellent  served  cold  with  a  fruit 
sauce. 

Caramel  Bread  Pudding 

4  cups  milk  2  eggs 

Yi  cup  sugar  %  cup  sugar 

2  cups  stale  bread  crumbs  y%  teaspoon  salt 
1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Caramelize  one-half  cup  sugar  and  add  to  milk 
which  has  been  scalded  in  double  boiler.  When  cara- 
mel has  dissolved,  add  bread  crumbs  and  let  soak 
thirty  minutes.  Beat  eggs  slightly,  add  two-thirds 
cup  sugar,  salt  and  vanilla.  Add  to  first  mixture, 
turn  into  a  buttered  pudding  dish  and  bake  in  a  mod- 
erate oven  one  hour.  Serve  with  whipped  cream 
sweetened  and  flavored  with  vanilla. 


HOT  PUDDINGS  251 

Banana  Pudding 

1  cup  stale  cake  crumbs  M  teaspoon  salt 

2  cups  milk  1  tablespoon  brandy 
}/2  cup  banana  pulp  1  teaspoon  vanilla 
M  cup  sugar  3  eggs 

Scald  milk,  pour  over  cake  crumbs,  cover,  let 
stand  one-half  hour  and  rub  through  a  sieve.  Add 
banana,  which  has  been  rubbed  through  a  sieve, 
sugar,  salt,  brandy,  vanilla  and  eggs,  slightly 
beaten.  Turn  into  buttered  individual  moulds, 
set  in  pan  of  hot  .water  and  bake  until  firm.  Remove 
from  oven,  let  stand  five  minutes,  turn  out  and  serve 
with  Cream  Sabayon  Sauce  I  (see  p.  263). 


Poxbury  Pudding,  Hot  Chocolate  Sauce 


l/2  cup  butter  2^  cups  flour 

1  cup  sugar  3^  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Yz  cup  milk  Few  grains  salt 

Whites  4  eggs 

Work  butter  until  creamy  and  add  sugar  gradu- 
ally, while  beating  constantly;  then  add  milk, 
flour  mixed  and  sifted  with  baking  powder,  salt 
and  whites  of  eggs,  beaten  until  stiff.  Turn  into  six 
well-buttered  half-pound  baking  powder  tins,  adjust 
covers,  which  should  also  be  buttered,  and  put  on 
trivet  in  kettle  containing  boiling  water,  allowing 
water  to  come  only  half-way  up  around  mould. 
Cover  closely  and  steam  one  hour,  adding,  as 
needed,  more  boiling  water,  never  having  the  water 
reach  a  lower  temperature  than  the  boiling  point. 


252  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

Remove  from  mould  and  serve  with  Hot  Chocolate 
Sauce  (see  p.  257). 

s  Steamed  Ginger  Sponge 

%  cup  butter  3  teaspoons  baking  powder 

2  tablespoons  sugar  ,  y±  teaspoon  salt 

2  eggs  i^  cup  Canton  ginger,  cut 
1  cup  milk  in  small  pieces 

2^  cups  flour  1  tablespoon  ginger  syrup 

• 

Cream  butter  and  add  sugar  gradually  and  eggs, 
well  beaten;  then  add  milk  alternately  with  flour, 
mixed  and  sifted  with  baking  powder  and  salt. 
Add  ginger  and  ginger  syrup  and  turn  into  a  but- 
tered mould.  Steam  one  and  three-fourths  hours. 
Remove  from  mould  and  serve  with  half-pint  bottle 
heavy  cream,  beaten  until  stiff  and  sweetened  with 
four  tablespoons  powdered  sugar  and  flavored  with 
two  tablespoons  ginger  syrup. 

Xt)range  Cream  Sponge.     . 

3  tablespoons  butter  4  eggs 

M  cup  flour  i^  cup  sugar 

1  cup  scalded  milk  1  tablespoon  orange  juice 

1  teaspoon  grated  orange  rind 

Melt  butter,  add  flour  and  stir  until  well  blended; 
then  pour  on  milk  gradually,  while  stirring  con- 
stantly, and  bring  to  the  boiling  point.  Add  orange 
juice  and  grated  rind  to  yolks  of  eggs  and  beat 
until  thick  and  lemon-colored;  then  add  sugar,  con- 
tinuing the  beating.  Combine  mixtures  and  fold 
in  whites  of  eggs,  beaten  until  stiff  and  dry.  Turn 


HOT  PUDDINGS  253 

into  a  buttered  melon  mould  and  steam  forty-five 
minutes.  Serve  with  Orange  Sauce  (see  The  Boston 
Cooking-School  Cook  Book,  p.  407)  or  Creamy 
Sauce,  flavored  with  juice  and  grated  rind  of  orange. 

Raisin  Puff 

Y^  cup  butter  2^  cups  flour 

2  tablespoons  sugar  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

2  eggs  M  teaspoon  salt 
1  cup  milk  1  cup  raisins 

Cream  butter,  add  sugar  gradually  and  eggs,  well 
beaten;  then  add  milk  alternately  with  two  cups  flour, 
mixed  and  sifted  with  baking  powder  and  salt. 
Seed  and  chop  raisins,  dredge  with  remaining  flour 
and  add  to  mixture.  Turn  into  a  buttered  mould, 
adjust  cover  and  steam  one  and  'one-half  hours. 
Remove  to  hot  serving  dish  and  serve  with  whipped 
cream,  sweetened  and  flavored  with  grated  nutmeg. 

New  England  Pudding 

8  common  crackers  1  cup  brown  sugar 

Butter  1  teaspoon  salt 

1  quart  scalded  milk  1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

3  eggs  %  teaspoon  grated  nutmeg 
3  egg  yolks  1  %  cups  seeded  raisins 

1  cup  thin  cream 

Split  crackers  and  spread  with  butter,  using  two 
teaspoons  to  each  half  cracker.  Arrange  alternate 
layers  of  crackers  and  raisins  (which  have  been  cooked 
in  a  very  small  quantity  of  boiling  water  until 
plump)  in  a  buttered  pudding  dish.  Pour  over 


254  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

scalded  milk,  cover  and  let  stand  one  hour.  Beat 
egg  and  egg  yolks  and  add  sugar,  salt  and  spices 
and  cream.  Pour  over  first  mixture  and  bake  in  a 
slow  oven  two  and  one-half  hours.  Serve  with  a 
hard  or  liquid  sauce. 

^    Honeycomb  Pudding 

1  cup  sugar  ^  cup  butter 

1  cup  flour  y%  cup  lukewarm  milk 

1  cup  molasses  1  teaspoon  soda 

4  eggs 

Mix  sugar  and  flour,  then  add  molasses.  Melt  but- 
ter in  milk  and  add  soda.  Combine  mixtures,  beat 
thoroughly  and  add  egg,  well  beaten.  Turn  into  a 
buttered  baking  dish  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 
Serve  with  Florodora  Sauce. 

Almond  Pudding 

4  tablespoons  butter  1 Y^  cups  flour 

}4  cup  sugar  ^  teaspoon  soda 

%  cup  molasses  24  teaspoon  cinnamon 

2  eggs  %  cup  almonds,  blanched 
]/2  cup  milk  and  roasted 

%  teaspoon  salt 

Cream  butter,  add  sugar  gradually,  molasses  and 
eggs,  well  beaten.  Mix  and  sift  dry  ingredients  and 
add  alternately  with  milk  to  first  mixture;  then  add 
almonds,  finely  chopped.  Turn  into  buttered  mould 
and  steam  two  and  one-half  hours,  never  allowing 
water  to  go  below  the  boiling  point.  Serve  with 
whipped  cream,  sweetened  and  flavored  with  vanilla. 


li- 


SNOW  EGGS.  —  Page  246. 


STKKLIXG  FWIT  Prnnixi;. —  Page  2.V>, 


IRISH  PLUM  PUDDING.  —  Page  255. 


IRISH  PLUM  PUDDING  STEAMED  IN  RING  MOULD  AND  GARNISHED 
FOR  CHRISTMAS.  —  Page  255. 


HOT  PUDDINGS  255 

Sterling  Fruit  Pudding 

1  cup  suet  1  cup  raisins 

2%  cups  stale  bread  %  cup  currants 

crumbs  ^  cup  flour 

1  cup  grated  raw  carrot  1^  teaspoon  salt 

Yolks  4  eggs  1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

13/6  cups  brown  sugar  ^  teaspoon  grated  nutmeg 

Grated  rind  1  lemon  %  teaspoon  cloves 

1  tablespoon  vinegar  Whites  4  eggs 

Work  suet  until  creamy,  using  the  hand,  and  add 
bread  crumbs  and  carrot.  Beat  egg  yolks  until 
light  and  add  gradually,  while  beating  constantly, 
sugar.  Combine  mixtures  and  add  lemon  rind  and 
vinegar.  Mix  raisins,  seeded  and  cut  in  pieces,  with 
currants  and  dredge  with  flour,  mixed  and  sifted 
with  salt  and  spices.  Add  to  mixture  with  whites 
of  eggs,  beaten  until  stiff.  Turn  into  a  buttered  mould 
garnished  with  citron  (cut  in  thin  slices,  then  in  fancy 
shapes),  and  adjust  cover.  Steam  three  and  one- 
half  hours.  Serve  with  Mousselaine  Brandy  Sauce. 

Irish  Plum  Pudding 

2^  cups  stale  bread  4  eggs 

crumbs  ^  pound  raisins 

1  cup  milk  }/%  pound  citron 

Yz  pound  beef  suet  ^  pound  currants 

3^  cup  sugar  3  tablespoons  flour 

}/2  cup  maple  syrup  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1  y%  teaspoons  salt  1^  cup  brandy 

Put  bread  crumbs  in  double  boiler,  add  milk  and 
cook  until  milk  is  scalded.  Chop  suet  and  work  with 
the  hands  until  creamy;  then  add  sugar  gradually, 


256  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

while  working  constantly.  Add  maple  syrup,  eggs 
well  beaten,  and  raisins  stoned  and  cut  in  pieces, 
citron  cut  in  thin  strips,  and  currants  mixed  and 
dredged  with  flour  mixed  with  baking  powder; 
then  add  brandy.  Turn  into  a  buttered  mould,  cover 
and  steam  twenty-four  hours.  It  may  be  steamed 
twelve  hours  one  day  and  twelve  hours  the  next. 
Re-heat  in  steamer  for  serving;  the  time  required  be- 
ing about  one  and  one-fourth  hours.  Turn  on  a  hot 
serving  dish,  insert  sparkers  and  garnish  with  holly 
(if  used  at  Christmas  dinner)  and  Brandy  Sauce 
(see  p.  262);  also  accompany  with  Yankee  Sauce 
(see  p.  259). 


CHAPTER    XXIII 

PUDDING   SAUCES 

Hot  Chocolate  Sauce 

1  square  unsweetened  chocolate         ^  cup  boiling  water 
1  tablespoon  melted  butter  1  cup  sugar 

^  teaspoon  vanilla 

Melt  chocolate  in  saucepan,  placed  in  larger 
saucepan  of  boiling  water.  Add  butter  and  when 
thoroughly  blended,  pour  on  gradually,  while  stirring 
constantly,  boiling  water;  then  add  sugar.  Bring  to 
the  boiling  point  and  let  boil  fourteen  minutes. 
Cool  slightly  and  flavor  with  vanilla. 

Raspberry  Sauce 

^  cup  butter  1  ^  cups  confectioners*  sugar 

K  cup  Raspberry  Syrup 

Cream  the  butter  and  add  sugar  gradually  while 
stirring  and  beating  constantly;  then  add  Raspberry 
Juice  (see  p.  398)  slowly  (at  first  drop  by  drop) 
to  prevent  a  separation.  Pile  on  a  dish  and  chill. 
Serve  with  Sally's  Bread  Pudding,  Cottage  Pudding, 
boiled  rice,  etc. 

Strawberry  Sauce 

%  cup  butter    .  1  cup  confectioners'  sugar 

%j  cup  strawberries 


258  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

Cream  butter  and  add  sugar  gradually  while  stir- 
ring constantly.  Wash,  hull  and  drain  berries; 
add  to  first  mixture  one  at  a  time,  beating  be- 
tween each  addition  until  well  blended.  If  these 
directions  are  not  followed,  sauce  will  have  a  curdled 
appearance. 

Orange  Sauce 

Grated  rind  H  lemon  Few  grains  salt 

Juice  }/2  lemon  Yolks  2  eggs 

^  cup  orange  juice  Whites  2  eggs 

%  cup  sugar  y%  tablespoon  apricot  brandy 

Mix  grated  rind,  fruit  juices,  sugar,  salt  and  egg 
yolks,  beaten  slightly.  Put  on  range  and  stir  con- 
stantly until  mixture  thickens.  Add  gradually, 
while  beating  constantly,  to  whites  of  eggs,  beaten 
until  stiff.  Cool  and  flavor  with  brandy. 

Sea  Foam  Sauce 

2  tablespoons  butter  Yolk  1  egg 

2  tablespoons  flour  %  cup  water 

^  cup  sugar  1  teaspoon  vanilla 
White  1  egg 

Cream  butter  and  add  flour,  mixed  with  sugar, 
gradually,  while  stirring  constantly;  then  add  egg 
yolk,  well  beaten,  water  and  vanilla.  Cook  in 
double  boiler  until  mixture  thickens,  stirring  con- 
stantly at  first,  and  afterwards  occasionally.  Cool 
and  just  before  sending  to  table  add  egg  white, 
beaten  until  stiff. 


PUDDING  SAUCES  259 

Roxbury  Sauce 

Yolk  1  egg  Y*  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  powdered  sugar  1A  teaspoon  vanilla 

^  cup  scalded  milk  1  tablespoon  lemon  juice 

1  teaspoon  corn  starch  Grated  rind  %  lemon 

White  1  egg 

Beat  egg  yolk  until  thick  and  lemon-colored  and 
add  three-fourths  of  sugar  gradually,  while  beating 
constantly.  Mix  remaining  sugar  with  cornstarch 
and  salt  and  pour  on,  gradually,  scalded  milk.  Cook 
in  double  boiler  ten  minutes,  stirring  constantly, 
until  mixture  thickens  and  afterwards  occasionally. 
Combine  mixtures,  add  flavorings  and  egg  white, 
beaten  until  stiff. 

Cambridge  Sauce 

K  cup  butter  \\i  tablespoons  cold  water 

1  cup  powdered  sugar  1A  cup  boiling  water 

2  teaspoons  flour  3  tablespoons  wine 

Cream  butter  and  add  sugar,  gradually,  while  beat- 
ing constantly.  Dilute  flour  with  cold  water,  add 
gradually  to  boiling  water  and  let  boil  five  minutes. 
Cool  and  just  before  serving,  combine  mixtures  and 
add  wine. 

Yankee  Sauce 

Cream  one-half  cup  butter,  and  add  gradually, 
while  beating  constantly,  one  cup  powdered  sugar. 
Dilute  one  tablespoon  cornstarch  with  two  and  one- 
half  tablespoons  cold  water  and  add  gradually  to 
one  cup  boiling  water,  placed  in  saucepan  on  range. 


260  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

Again  bring  to  the  boiling  point  and  let  boil  until 
liquid  is  clear.  Combine  mixtures,  stirring  briskly, 
and  flavor  with  one  teaspoon  vinegar  and  three 
tablespoons  Sherry  wine.  Especially  good  with 
Steamed  Berry  Pudding. 

Monroe  Sauce 

2  cups  brown  sugar  4  tablespoons  butter 

%  cup  boiling  water  4  tablespoons  Sherry  wine 

4  tablespoons  cold  water  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

2  teaspoons  cornstarch  Slight  grating  nutmeg 

Few  grains  salt 

Make  a  syrup  by  boiling  sugar  and  water  twelve 
minutes.  Add  cold  water  to  cornstarch  and  stir  until 
smooth;  then  add  gradually,  while  stirring  con- 
stantly, to  syrup  and  let  simmer  forty  minutes.  Add 
butter,  wine,  vanilla,  nutmeg  and  salt  and  serve  at 
once. 

Sherry  Sauce  I 

Mix  thoroughly  one-half  cup  sugar  and  one  table- 
spoon cornstarch;  then  pour  on  gradually,  while 
stirring  constantly,  one  cup  boiling  water.  Bring 
to  the  boiling  point  and  let  simmer  three  minutes. 
Remove  from  range,  add  a  few  grains  salt,  two 
tablespoons  butter,  bit  by  bit,  and  one  tablespoon 
Sherry  wine. 

Sherry  Sauce  II 

Whites  2  eggs  1  tablespoon  apricot 

%j  cup  powdered  sugar  marmalade 

}4  cup  Sherry  wine 


FANCY  CUTTERS,  PANS  AND  MOULDS. 


CHARLOTTE  RUSSE  IN  THE  MAKING.  —  Page  276. 


CHARLOTTE  RUSSE.  —  Page  276. 


PUDDING  SAUCES  261 

Beat  whites  of  eggs  until  stiff.  Add  sugar  grad- 
ually, continuing  the  beating,  then  add  marmalade 
and  Sherry  wine. 

San  Monica  Sauce 

1  tablespoon  butter  Yolk  1  egg 

1  tablespoon  flour  1  banana 

%  cup  sugar  Few  grains  salt 

Yz  cup  milk  Yi  cup  heavy  cream 

Cream  butter,  add  flour  and  stir  until  well  blended; 
then  add  sugar  gradually.  Scald  milk,  add  mixture 
and  stir  constantly  until  thickened.  Add  egg  yolk 
slightly  beaten  and  cook  three  minutes;  then  add 
banana,  skinned,  scraped  and  forced  through  a 
strainer.  Chill  and  add  salt  and  cream,  beaten 
until  stiff. 

Denver  Sauce 

%  cup  butter  2  tablespoons  coffee  infusion 

1  cup  powdered  sugar  2  teaspoons  breakfast  cocoa 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Cream  butter  and  add  sugar  gradually,  while 
beating  constantly;  then  add  coffee,  drop  by  drop, 
cocoa  and  vanilla. 

Dearborn  Sauce 

Yi  cup  butter  1  ^  tablespoons  Sherry  wine 

1  cup  brown  sugar  2  teaspoons  brandy 

2  tablespoons  cream  Few  grains  salt 

Cream  butter  and  add  sugar,  gradually,  while 
beating  constantly.  Add  cream,  and  wine  and 


262  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

brandy,   drop  by  drop,   to  prevent   a  separation; 
then  add  salt. 

Brandy  Sauce 

Work  one-half  cup  butter  until  very  creamy, 
and  add  gradually,  while  beating  constantly,  one  and 
one-third  cups  powdered  sugar;  then  add  two  table- 
spoons of  brandy,  at  first,  drop  by  drop.  Force 
through  a  pastry  bag  and  tube  on  thin  slices  of  lemon, 
from  which  seeds  have  been  removed,  and  sprinkle 
with  chopped  pistachio  nuts. 

Peach  Brandy  Sauce 

Yz  cup  butter  */§  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  powdered  sugar  ^  cup  heavy  cream 

Whites  2  eggs  2  tablespoons  Peach  Brandy 

Cream  butter  and  add  sugar  gradually,  while  beat- 
ing constantly;  then  add  whites  of  eggs,  beaten  until 
stiff,  and  salt.  Place  over  hot  water  and  stir  con- 
stantly until  mixture  is  heated.  Remove  from 
range  and  add  cream,  beaten  until  stiff,  and  brandy. 

Florodora  Sauce 

White  1  egg  Y±  cup  heavy  cream 

%  cup  powdered  sugar  2  tablespoons  Madeira  wine 

Yolk  1  egg  Few  grains  salt 

Beat  egg  white  until  stiff  and  add,  gradually,  while 
beating  constantly,  sugar;  then  add  egg  yolk,  beaten 
until  thick  and  lemon-colored,  cream  beaten  until 
stiff,  wine  and  salt. 


PUDDING  SAUCES  263 

White  Wine  Sauce 

Yi  cup  sugar  Yolks  2  eggs 

YL  tablespoon  cornstarch  1  cup  white  wine 

Grated  rind  Yi  lemon  Few  grains  salt 

Juice  Yi  lemon  Whites  2  eggs 

Mix  sugar  and  cornstarch  and  add  lemon  rind  and 
juice,  yolks  of  eggs,  slightly  beaten,  wine  and  salt. 
Place  saucepan  containing  mixture  on  range  and 
stir  constantly  until  the  boiling  point  is  reached. 
Remove  from  range  and  add  whites  of  eggs,  beaten 
until  stiff. 

Cream  Sabayon  Sauce  I 

Yolks  2  eggs  H  cup  cream 

1  tablespoon  sugar  1  teaspoon  Apricot  brandy 

Add  sugar  to  egg  yolks  and  beat  until  light.  Heat 
cream  to  boiling  point  and  pour  slowly,  while 
beating  constantly,  on  egg  yolks.  Add  brandy  and 
cook,  stirring  constantly,  three  minutes.  Strain  and 
serve. 

Cream  Sabayon  Sauce  II 

1  cup  milk  2  tablespoons  Sherry  wine 

1  cup  cream  ^  teaspoon  vanilla 
Yolks  2  eggs  Few  grains  salt 

2  tablespoons  sugar  Whites  2  eggs 

Put  milk  and  cream  in  saucepan  and  bring  to 
boiling  point.  Beat  yolks  of  eggs  until  thick  and  add 
sugar.  Pour  milk  gradually,  while  beating  constantly, 
on  egg  mixture  and  cook  in  double  boiler  five  min- 
utes. Add  wine,  vanilla  and  salt  and  pour  over 
whites  of  eggs,  beaten  until  stiff. 


264  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

Brandy  Mousselaine  Sauce 

Yolks  4  eggs  1  CUp  heavy  cream 

1  cup  powdered  sugar  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

2  tablespoons  brandy  Few  grains  salt 

Beat  yolks  of  eggs  until  light  and  add  gradually, 
while  stirring  constantly,  sugar  and  brandy.  Cook 
over  range  five  minutes,  stirring  constantly.  Set 
pan  containing  mixture  in  larger  pan  of  ice  water 
and  beat  until  cold;  then  add  cream,  beaten  until 
stiff,  .vanilla  and  salt. 


CHAPTER    XXIV 

COLD   DESSERTS 

Berkshire  Comstarch  Pudding 

2  squares  Baker's  chocolate        3  tablespoons  cornstarch 
2  cups  milk  Y±  teaspoon  salt 

Y±  cup  sugar  Y±  cup  milk 

y<L  teaspoon  vanilla 

Put  chocolate  and  two  cups  milk  in  double  boiler. 
Mix  sugar,  cornstarch  and  salt  and  when  well 
blended,  pour  on  gradually  one-fourth  cup  milk. 
Add  to  milk  which  has  scalded  with  chocolate 
and  cook  fifteen  minutes,  stirring  constantly  until 
mixture  thickens  and  afterwards  occasionally. 
Add  flavoring  and  turn  into  a  serving  dish.  Chill 
and  serve  with  or  without  sugar  and  •cream. 

Jordan  Pudding 

2  cups  boiling  water  5  tablespoons  cornstarch 

%  cup  sugar  %  cup  cold  water 

^  teaspoon  salt  Whites  2  eggs 

1^  cup  lemon  juice 

Add  sugar  and  salt  to  boiling  water.  Dilute  corn- 
starch  with  cold  water  and  combine  mixtures.  Bring 
to  the  boiling  point,  stirring  constantly,  and  let  boil 
five  minutes;  then  add  whites  of  eggs,  beaten  until 


266  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

stiff,  and  lemon  juice.   Turn  into  a  mould,  first  dipped 
in  cold  water,  and  chill. 

Remove  from  mould  and  serve  with  Custard  Sauce. 

Fig  Custard 

1  quart  milk  Yz  pound  figs 

2  tablespoons  cornstarch          %  cup  boiling  water 
%  cup  sugar  %  cup  sugar 

J^  teaspoon  salt  1  Yt  tablespoons  lemon  juice 

Yolks  3  eggs  Whites  3  eggs 

3  tablespoons  powdered  sugar 

Scald  milk.  Mix  cornstarch,  sugar  and  salt.  Pour 
on  gradually  scalded  milk  and  cook  in  double  boiler 
ten  minutes.  Add  egg  yolks,  slightly  beaten,  and 
cook  three  minutes. 

Cut  figs  in  small  pieces,  put  in  double  boiler,  add 
water,  sugar  and  two-thirds  lemon  juice  and  cook 
until  figs  are  soft.  Combine  mixtures  and  cool; 
then  turn  into  serving  dish.  Beat  whites  of  eggs 
until  stiff  and  add  powdered  sugar  gradually,  while 
beating  constantly;  then  add  remaining  lemon  juice. 
Pile  by  spoonfuls  over  pudding,  just  as  sending  to 
table.  This  meringue,  to  be  at  its  best,  cannot  stand 
long. 

Cream 


4  tablespoons  cornstarch  Yolks  2  eggs 

YL  cup  cold  milk  2  tablespoons  sugar 

3^2  cups  scalded  milk  Yz  teaspoon  salt 

YL  teaspoon  orange  extract 

Mix  cornstarch  with  cold  milk,  add  gradually  to 
scalded  milk  and  cook  in  a  double  boiler  fifteen 


COLD  DESSERTS  267 

minutes,  stirring  constantly  until  mixture  thickens 
and  afterwards  occasionally.  Beat  yolks  of  eggs 
and  add  sugar  and  salt.  Add  to  first  mixture  and 
cook  three  minutes.  Turn  into  a  serving  dish, 
sprinkle  with  two  tablespoons  granulated  sugar, 
cover  and  let  stand  until  cold.  Cover  with  a  me- 
ringue and  surround  with  a  border  of  sections  of 
orange.  Serve  with  thin  cream. 

For  the  meringue  beat  the  whites  two  eggs  until 
stiff,  and  add  gradually,  while  beating  constantly, 
two  tablespoons  powdered  sugar,  one-half  teaspoon 
vanilla  and  a  few  grains  salt.  Poach  by  heaping 
tablespoonfuls  in  boiling  water. 

Baked  French  Custard 

1  pint  thin  cream  2  tablespoons  sugar 

Whites  3  eggs  ^  teaspoon  vanilla 

34  teaspoon  salt 

Heat  cream  in  double  boiler.  Beat  whites  of  eggs 
until  stiff  and  add  sugar,  vanilla  and  salt.  Add 
mixture  to  cream  and  beat,  using  an  egg  beater. 
Turn  into  buttered  cups,  set  in  pan  of  hot  water 
and  bake  until  firm.  Chill  thoroughly,  remove 
from  moulds  and  serve  with  sugar  and  cream. 

Danish  Custard 

Y$  cup  sugar,  caramelized  1  quart  milk 

}4  cup  sugar  ^  teaspoon  salt 

5  eggs  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Put  two-thirds  cup  sugar  in  agate  pudding  dish, 
place  on  hot  part  of  range  and  stir  constantly  until 


268  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

sugar  is  melted  and  a  syrup  of  light  brown  color  is 
formed;  then  set  pan  at  once  in  larger  pan  of  cold 
water  to  stop  the  cooking  and  let  stand  about  one 
minute,  turning  the  pan  to  allow  the  caramel  to 
coat  sides  as  well  as  bottom.  Beat  eggs  slightly, 
add  plain  sugar,  milk,  salt  and  vanilla  and  strain 
into  pan  lined  with  caramel.  Set  in  pan  of  hot  water 
and  bake  until  firm,  which  may  be  determined  by 
running  a  silver  knife  through  custard.  If  knife 
comes  out  clean,  custard  is  done.  During  the  baking, 
do  not  allow  the  water  surrounding  the  mould  to 
reach  the  boiling  point,  or  custard  will  whey.  Chill 
and  turn  on  a  glass  serving  dish 

y-Ginger  Custard 

Canton  ginger  3^  cup  sugar 

4  eggs  M  teaspoon  salt 

2  cups  milk  2  tablespoons  rum 

Cut  Canton  ginger  in  thin  strips  and  use  for  gar- 
nishing sides  of  buttered  individual  moulds.  Beat 
eggs  slightly,  add  sugar,  milk  and  seasonings  and 
strain  into  moulds.  Set  in  pan  of  hot  water  and 
bake  until  firm.  Chill  thoroughly  and  remove  from 
moulds  to  serving  dish. 

Prune  Pudding 

%  pound  prunes  ^  cup  sugar 

Whites  4  eggs 

Wash  and  pick  over  prunes.  Put  in  a  saucepan, 
cover  with  cold  water  and  soak  two  hours.  Cook 


COLD  DESSERTS  269 

in  same  water  until  soft,  when  water  should  be  nearly 
evaporated.  Remove  stones  and  cut  prunes  in 
small  pieces;  then  sprinkle  with  sugar.  Beat  whites 
of  eggs  until  stiff  and  add  prunes  gradually.  Pour 
into  a  slightly  buttered  pudding  dish  and  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  twenty-five  minutes.  Chill  and  serve 
with  Custard  Sauce  or  whipped  cream,  sweetened 
and  flavored. 

Cold  Chocolate  Bread  Pudding 

1  cup  soft  stale  bread  crumbs  2  cups  milk 

1  y%  squares  unsweetened  Yolks  3  eggs 

chocolate  2  tablespoons  butter 

1  cup  sugar  J^  teaspoon  salt 

Yi  teaspoon  vanilla 

Add  bread,  chocolate  and  sugar  to  cold  milk, 
reserving  one-half  cup.  Put  in  double  boiler  and 
let  cook  until  'a  smooth  paste  is  formed.  Beat 
yolks  of  eggs  until  light,  add  reserved  milk,  butter 
and  salt  and  stir  into  hot  mixture.  Cook  until 
mixture  thickens,  then  add  vanilla.  Turn  in  a  but- 
tered pudding  dish  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
twenty  minutes.  Cool  slightly,  cover  with  meringue 
and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  eight  minutes.  Serve 
very  cold. 

For  the  meringue  beat  the  whites  of  three  eggs 
until  stiff  and  add,  gradually,  one-fourth  cup  pow- 
dered sugar,  continuing  the  beating;  then  cut  and 
fold  in  one-fourth  cup  powdered  sugar  and  add 
one-half  teaspoon  vanilla. 


270  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

Lemon  Jelly 

\Y2  cups  cold  water  1  tablespoon  granulated 

1  cup  sugar  gelatine 

4  cloves  2  tablespoons  cold  water 

^-inch  piece  stick  J^  cup  lemon  juice 

cinnamon  Few  grains  salt 

Put  water,  sugar,  cloves  and  cinnamon  in  sauce- 
pan, place  on  range,  stir  until  sugar  has  dissolved 
and  bring  to  boiling  point.  Add  gelatine  which 
has  soaked  in  cold  water  five  minutes.  Stir  until 
gelatine  has  dissolved;  then  add  lemon  juice  and 
salt.  Strain  into  a  mould,  first  dipped  in  cold 
water,  and  chill  thoroughly. 

Pineapple  Jelly 

2  cups  boiling  water  2  tablespoons  granulated 
^  cup  sugar  gelatine 

1  cup  pineapple  juice  2  tablespoons  cold  water 

3  tablespoons  lemon  juice          1%  cups  pineapple  cubes 

Pour  water  over  sugar  and  when  sugar  has  dis- 
solved, add  gelatine  soaked  in  cold  water  five  min- 
utes; then  add  juice  drained  from  canned  pineapple 
and  lemon  juice  and  strain.  When  mixture  begins  to 
thicken,  add  canned  pineapple,  cut  in  one-half-inch 
cubes.  Turn  into  a  mould,  first  dipped  in  cold  water, 
and  chill  thoroughly. 

Keswick  Pudding 

%  cup  sugar  Few  grains  salt 

1  cup  boiling  water  1^  tablespoons  granulated 

Yolks  3  eggs  gelatine 

J4  cup  sugar  %  cup  cold  water 

Y±  cup  lemon  juice 


COLD  DESSERTS  271 

Dissolve  sugar  in  water  and  again  bring  to  the 
boiling  point.  Beat  yolks  of  eggs  slightly  and 
add  sugar  and  salt.  Pour  on  gradually  the  boil- 
ing syrup  and  cook,  stirring  constantly,  until 
mixture  thickens;  then  add  gelatine,  soaked  in 
cold  water,  and  lemon  juice.  Strain,  set  in  ice 
water  and  stir  until  mixture  begins  to  thicken. 
Turn  into  a  mould,  first  dipped  in  cold  water. 
Remove  from  mould  and  garnish  with  whipped 
cream,  sweetened  and  flavored  with  vanilla. 

Newport  Pudding 

1  cup  boiling  water  Whites  3  eggs 

1  cup  sugar  1 Y^  tablespoons  Sauterne 

1  tablespoon  granulated  1  ^  tablespoons  Sherry 

gelatine  Green  coloring 

%  cup  cold  water  Red  coloring 

Put  sugar  in  small  saucepan,  pour  over  boiling 
water,  set  on  range,  bring  to  boiling  point  and 
let  boil  three  minutes.  Remove  from  range  and  add 
gelatine  which  has  soaked  in  cold  water  fifteen 
minutes.  Beat  until  mixture  begins  to  stiffen; 
then  add  whites  of  eggs,  beaten  until  stiff,  and 
continue  the  beating  twenty  minutes.  Divide 
the  mixture  into  thirds.  To  first  third  add 
Sauterne,  to  second  third  add  one-half  the  Sherry 
and  color  pink;  to  remaining  third  add  remain- 
ing Sherry  and  color  green.  Arrange  in  layers 
in  a  fancy  mould,  first  dipped  in  cold  water, 
first  the  pink,  then  the  white,  then  the  green. 


272  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

Chill  thoroughly,  remove  from    mould  and   serve 
with  thin  cream. 

Coffee  Sponge 

2  tablespoons  granulated         2  cups  strong  boiled  coffee 

gelatine  1  cup  sugar 

%  cup  cold  water  Whites  3  eggs 

Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water  and  add  to  hot  coffee; 
then  add  sugar.  Strain  into  pan,  set  in  larger  pan  of 
ice  water,  cool  slightly,  then  beat,  using  a  wire  whisk, 
until  quite  stiff.  Add  whites  of  eggs,  beaten  until 
stiff,  and  continue  the  beating  until  mixture  will 
hold  its  shape.  Turn  into  a  mould,  first  dipped  in 
cold  water.  Chill  thoroughly,  remove  from  mould 
and  serve  with  sugar  and  thin  cream. 

French  Macaroon  Cream 

1  tablespoon  granulated  Yolks  3  eggs 

gelatine  ^  cup  sugar 

3  tablespoons  cold  water  %  teaspoon  salt 

2  cups  milk  Whites  3  eggs 

1  square  unsweetened  %  cup  macaroons,  dried 

chocolate  and  rolled 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water.  Scald  milk  with 
chocolate  and  add  egg  yolks,  beaten  and  mixed  with 
sugar  and  salt.  Stir  constantly  until  mixture 
thickens,  remove  from  range  and  add  egg  whites, 
beaten  until  stiff,  macaroons  and  vanilla.  Turn 
into  individual  moulds,  first  dipped  in  cold  water, 
and  chill  thoroughly. 


JELLY  PAXACHEE.  —  Page  279. 


COLD  PINEAPPLE  SOUFFLE.  —  Page  273. 


MACEDOINE  OF  FRUIT.  —  Page  279. 


JELLIED  FRUIT,  MOULDED.  —  Page  278. 


COLD  DESSERTS  273 

Cherry  Moss 

1  tablespoon  granulated  1  ^  cups  dark  red 

gelatine  canned  cherries 

%  cup  cold  water  H  cup  cherry  juice 

Y±  cup  boiling  water  Whites  2  eggs 
Few  grains  salt 

Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water,  dissolve  in  boiling 
water  and  add  cherries  (stoned  and  cut  in  halves) 
and  cherry  juice.  When  mixture  begins  to  thicken, 
add  whites  of  eggs,  beaten  until  stiff,  and  salt. 
Turn  into  a  slightly  oiled  mould  and  chill.  Remove 
from  mould  to  serving  dish  and  garnish  with  whipped 
cream  (sweetened  and  flavored  with  vanilla)  and 
sprinkle  with  Jordan  almonds,  blanched,  shredded 
and  roasted,  or  chopped  pistachio  nut  meats. 

Cold  Pineapple  Souffle 

Yolks  3  eggs  %  cup  grated  canned  pineapple 

Grated  rind  1  lemon  1  ^  tablespoons  granulated 

Juice  1  lemon  gelatine 

y<L  cup  sugar  %  cup  cold  water 

Few  grains  salt  y%  cup  heavy  cream 

Whites  3  eggs 

Beat  egg  yolks  slightly  and  add  grated  rind,  lemon 
juice,  sugar  and  salt.  Cook  over  hot  water,  stirring 
constantly  until  mixture  thickens.  Remove  from 
range  and  add  pineapple  and  gelatine,  which  has 
soaked  in  water  five  minutes.  When  mixture  be- 
gins to  thicken,  add  cream,  beaten  until  stiff,  and 
egg  whites,  beaten  until  stiff.  Turn  into  a  mould, 
garnished  with  pieces  of  canned  sliced  pineapple 


274  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

and  candied  cherries,  and  chill  thoroughly.  Re- 
move from  mould  to  chilled  serving  dish  and  gar- 
nish with  half  slices  of  canned  pineapple  and  candied 
cherries.  The  garnish  may  be  omitted  if  a  simpler 
desert  is  desired. 

* 

Pineapple  Pyramids 

1  can  sliced  pineapple  3  tablespoons  granulated 

1  cup  pineapple  juice  gelatine 

2  tablespoons  lemon  juice  ^  cup  cold  water 
%  cup  sugar  1^  cups  thin  cream 
Few  grains  salt  1  cup  heavy  cream 

1  glass  Red  Bar-le-duc  currants 

Drain  canned  pineapple  from  syrup.  Finely  chop 
fruit  and  again  drain.  To  fruit  pulp  add  pineapple 
juice,  lemon  juice,  sugar,  salt  and  gelatine,  which 
has  been  allowed  to  soak  in  water  fifteen  minutes. 

• 

Heat  mixture  until  gelatine  has  dissolved.  Remove 
from  range,  set  in  pan  of  cold  water  and  when 
mixture  begins  to  thicken,  fold  in  whip  from  thin 
cream  and  when  well  mixed,  add  heavy  cream, 
beaten  until  stiff,  and  currants.  Turn  into  a  slightly 
oiled  mould  and  chill  thoroughly. 

St.  Valentine's  Pudding 

1  can  sliced  pineapple  Fruit  red 

%  cup  sugar  1  cup  heavy  cream 

%  cup  Sauterne  wine  V^  cup  marrons 

Few  grains  salt  %  cup  English  walnut  meats 

2%  tablespoons  granulated  %  Ib.  marshmallows 

gelatine  2  tablespoons  powdered  sugar 

3  tablespoons  cold  water  Sherry  wine 
J  teaspoonful  vanilla 


COLD  DESSERTS  275 

Drain  pineapple  and  to  syrup  add  sugar,  five 
slices  chopped  pineapple  and  one  cup  cold  water. 
Bring  slowly  to  the  boiling  point,  remove  to 
back  of  range,  and  let  stand  one  hour;  then  strain 
through  cheese-cloth;  there  should  be  two  cups 
syrup.  Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water,  dissolve  in  hot 
syrup,  add  Sauterne  wine  and  salt  and  color  with 
fruit  red.  Place  a  heart-shaped  mould  in  pan  con- 
taining ice  water  and  pour  in  mixture  to  one-half 
inch  in  depth.  When  firm  place  a  smaller  heart- 
shaped  mould  (containing  ice  water)  on  jelly, 
leaving  a  space  of  uniform  width.  Add  jelly 
mixture  a  little  at  a  time,  and  cool  between  the 
additions,  until  space  is  full.  When  firm  remove 
smaller  mould  and  fill  space  with  the  following 
mixture  thoroughly  chilled.  Beat  cream  until  stiff 
and  add  one-half  cup  pineapple  cubes  (cut  from 
sliced  pineapple),  marrons  broken  in  pieces,  Eng- 
lish walnut  meats,  broken  in  pieces,  marshmal- 
lows  cut  in  strips,  powdered  sugar,  sherry  wine  to 
taste  and  vanilla.  Let  stand  one  hour.  Remove 
from  mould  to  serving  dish  and  surround  with 
pink  spun  sugar. 

Peach  Cabinet  Pudding 

1  can  peaches  Whites  3  eggs 
%  cup  powdered  sugar  %  cup  sugar 

2  tablespoons  Sherry  wine       %  teaspoon  salt 

1  tablespoon  brandy  1^  tablespoons  granulated 

2  cups  milk  gelatine 

Yolks  3  eggs  2  tablespoons  cold  water 


276  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

• 

Drain  peaches,  cut  in  quarters,  sprinkle  with 
powdered  sugar  and  pour  over  Sherry  and  brandy. 
Make  a  custard  of  milk,  egg  yolks,  sugar  and  salt, 
and  just  before  removing  from  fire  add  gelatine  soaked 
in  cold  water.  Strain  and  when  slightly  cooled  add 
liquor  drained  from  peaches.  Stir  until  mixture  be- 
gins to  thicken,  then  add  whites  of  eggs  beaten  stiff. 
Line  a  mould  with  peaches,  pour  in  custard  and  chill. 

/•Grape  Juice  Souffle 

2  tablespoons  granulated  1  pint  grape  juice 

gelatine  Whites  4  eggs 

%  cup  heavy  cream 

Put  gelatine  in  grape  juice  and  heat  in  double 
boiler  until  gelatine  has  dissolved.  Strain  into  bowl, 
set  bowl  in  saucepan  of  ice  water  and  when  mixture 
begins  to  thicken,  fold  in  whites  of  eggs,  beaten 
until  stiff.  Half  fill  individual  moulds  (first  dipped 
in  cold  water)  with  mixture.  To  remainder  add 
cream,  beaten  until  stiff.  Fill  moulds  with  cream 
mixture  and  chill.  Remove  from  moulds  to  serving 
dish  and  garnish  with  whipped  cream,  sweetened 
and  delicately  flavored  with  vanilla. 

Charlotte  Russe 

1 24  cups  milk  %  cup  cold  water 

2  eggs  Y?,  pint  heavy  cream 

2  tablespoons  sugar  3  tablespoons  powdered  sugar 

Few  grains  salt  %  teaspoon  vanilla 

134  tablespoons  granu-  Sponge  cake 

lated  gelatine  Whites  2  eggs 


COLD  DESSERTS  277 

Scald  milk  and  add  gradually  to  eggs,  slightly 
beaten  and  mixed  with  sugar  and  salt.  Cook  over 
hot  water,  stirring  constantly,  until  mixture  thickens, 
then  add  gelatine,  soaked  in  cold  water.  Strain 
and  add  whites  of  eggs,  beaten  until  stiff.  Set  pan 
in  larger  pan  of  ice  water  and  stir,  scraping  from  bot- 
tom and  sides  of  pan,  until  mixture  begins  to  thicken. 
Then  add  cream,  beaten  until  stiff  and  mixed  with 
sugar  and  vanilla.  Line  round  paper  cases  with 
strips  of  sponge  cake,  using  muffin  rings  to  keep  cases 
in  shape.  Fill  with  cream  and  chill.  Remove  from 
cases  and  garnish  tops  with  four  narrow  strips  of 
cakes,  radiating  from  centre,  and  garnish  centre  with 
a  cube  of  jelly. 

Coffee  Charlotte  Baskets 

Bake  sponge  cake  mixture  in  buttered  gem  pans. 
Cool,  remove  centres  and  fill  with  coffee  cream. 
Garnish  tops  with  whipped  cream,  sweetened  and 
flavored  with  vanilla  and  brandy,  and  insert  strips 
of  angelica  to  represent  handles. 

Coffee  Cream.  —  Scald  one  and  one-half  cups  milk 
with  two  and  one-half  tablespoons  ground  coffee 
and  strain.  Mix  thoroughly  one-half  cup  sugar, 
one-fourth  cup  flour  and  one-eighth  teaspoon  salt. 
Pour  on  gradually,  while  stirring  constantly,  the 
scalded  milk.  Add  yolks  two  eggs,  slightly  beaten. 
Return  mixture  to  double  boiler  and  cook  fifteen 
minutes.  Cool,  add  one-third  cup  English  walnut 
meats,  cut  in  pieces,  and  one-half  teaspoon  vanilla. 


278  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

St.  Regis  Pudding 

Yz  cup  boiling  water  1 Yi  tablespoons  granulated 
YL  cup  sugar  gelatine 

Y*  cup  Sherry  wine  %  cup  cold  water 

Yi  cup  apricot  syrup  Yz  cup  seedless  raisins 

Yz  tablespoon  lemon  juice  34  cup  brandy 

Few  grains  salt  %  cup  canned  apricots,  cut 

in  pieces 

Bring  water  and  sugar  to  boiling  point  and 
let  boil  one  minute.  Add  Sherry  wine,  apricot 
syrup,  lemon  juice,  salt  and  gelatine,  soaked  in 
cold  water.  To  raisins  add  brandy  and  cook  in 
double  boiler  until  raisins  are  plump.  Add  to  jelly 
mixture  with  apricots  cut  in  small  pieces.  Turn  into 
a  mould,  chill  thoroughly,  remove  from  mould  and 
serve  with  or  without  whipped  cream,  sweetened  and 
flavored  with  vanilla. 


Fruit  Moulded  in  Jelly 

5  tablespoons  granulated  %  cup  orange  juice 

gelatine  J^  cup  lemon  juice 

1  cup  cold  water  Few  grains  salt 

2  cups  boiling  water  Yi  can  peaches 

13^  cups  sugar  1  quart  box  strawberries 

1^  cups  peach  syrup  1  banana 

1  cup  Sherry  %J  cup  seeded  raisins 

Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water,  dissolve  in  boiling 
water  and  add  sugar,  fruit  juices,  wine  and  salt. 
Brush  over  inside  of  a  large  fancy  mould  with 
olive  oil,  then  wipe  over  with  a  piece  of  tissue  paper. 
Put  in  pan  of  ice  water  and  pour  in  just  enough  of 


COLD  DESSERTS  279 

mixture  to  cover  top  ornamentations.  When  firm, 
put  in  each  ornament  a  strawberry,  blossom  end 
down;  add  mixture  to  cover  strawberries  and  let 
stand  until  set.  Cut  banana  in  slices,  crosswise, 
shape  with  small  round  cutter  and  arrange  a  row 
around  strawberry  which  is  in  centre  of  mould. 
Add  more  jelly  mixture  to  keep  banana  in  place  and 
let  set.  To  remaining  jelly  mixture  add  peaches  cut 
in  pieces  and  raisins  (cooked  until  plump  in  a  small 
quantity  of  boiling  water  drained  and  cooled). 
Fill  mould  with  mixture  and  chill.  Remove  to  serv- 
ing dish  and  garnish  with  remaining  strawberries 
with  hulls  left  on.  This  is  a  large  receipt  to  be  used 
for  receptions. 

Macedoine  of  Fruit 

3^  tablespoons  granulated         Y^  cup  orange  juice 

gelatine  2  tablespoons  lemon  juice 

^  cup  cold  water  Few  grains  salt 

1  cup  boiling  water  Canned  peaches 

ll/i  cups  sugar  Stewed  prunes 

\Y±  cups  peach  syrup  Blanched  Jordan  almonds 

Y±  cup  Sherry  Glaced  cherries 

Follow  directions  as  given  in  Fruit  Moulded  in 
Jelly. 

Jelly  PanachS 

Cut  jelly  roll  in  one-half-inch  slices.  Line  a 
charlotte  russe  mould  with  slices  and  fill  with 
Strawberry  Bavarian  Cream. 

Jelly  Roll.  —  Beat  the  yolks  of  four  eggs  until  thick 


280  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

and  lemon-colored  and  add  three  tablespoons  cold 
water;  then  add  gradually,  while  beating  constantly, 
one  cup  sugar  and  beat.  Put  one  and  one-half 
tablespoons  cornstarch  in  cup  and  fill  cup  with  flour. 
Mix  and  sift  one  and  one-fourth  teaspoons  baking 
powder  and  one-fourth  teaspoon  salt  and  add  to 
first  mixture;  then  add  whites  of  four  eggs,  beaten 
until  stiff,  and  one  teaspoon  lemon  extract.  Turn 
into  a  buttered  dripping  pan  and  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven.  Remove  from  pan  to  cloth  dredged  with  con- 
fectioners' sugar.  Spread  with  currant  jelly,  which 
has  been  beaten  with  a  silver  fork  until  of  the  right 
consistency  to  spread  evenly.  Trim  off  sides  and  ends 
with  a  sharp  knife  and  roll  as  quickly  as  possible. 

Strawberry  Bavarian  Cream.  —  Soak  one  and  one- 
half  tablespoons  granulated  gelatine  in  one-fourth 
cup  cold  water  and  dissolve  in  one-third  cup  boiling 
water.  Add  one  cup  syrup  drained  from  canned 
strawberries  and  more  sugar  if  not  sweet  enough. 
Set  bowl  containing  mixture  in  pan  of  ice  water  and 
stir  until  mixture  begins  to  thicken;  then  fold  in 
whip  from  one  pint  thin  cream. 


CHAPTER    XXV 

FROZEN   DESSERTS 
Ices,  Ice  Creams,  etc. 

Lemon  Ice 

Yz  cup  cut  sugar  1  cup  hot  water 

4  lemons  2  cups  cold  water 

Y±  cup  granulated  sugar 

RUB  entire  surf  ace  of  cut  sugar  over  rind  of  lemons, 
which  have  been  washed  and  wiped  until  dry. 
Pour  over  sugar  the  juice  expressed  from  the  lemons 
(of  which  there  should  be  one-half  cup)  and  hot 
water.  When  sugar  is  dissolved,  add  cold  water  and 
granulated  sugar.  Strain  and  freeze. 

Creme  de  Menthe  Ice 

To  one-half  the  recipe  for  Lemon  Ice  add  two 
tablespoons  Creme  de  Menthe  cordial  and  freeze. 

'    Raspberry  Ice 

2  cups  raspberry  juice  Sugar 

2  cups  water  Lemon  juice 

To  juice  drained  from  canned  raspberries  add 
water;  then  add  sugar  to  sweeten  and  lemon  juice 
to  taste.  Freeze,  pack  in  salt  and  ice  and  let  stand 
one  hour. 


282  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

Grape  Fruit  Frappe 

1  quart  water  23/2  cups  grape  fruit  juice 

23/6  cups  sugar  %  cup  orange  juice 

Rind  3/6  orange  3  tablespoons  lemon  juice 

Rind  3/6  lemon  3^  cup  Forbidden  Fruit  Cordial 

Put  water,  sugar  and  the  cuttings  from  the  yellow 
part  of  the  rind  in  saucepan.  Bring  to  boiling  point 
and  let  boil  three  minutes.  Strain,  cool  and  add 
remaining  ingredients.  Freeze  to  a  mush  and  serve 
in  tall  glasses. 

Club  Punch 

3  cups  water  1  cup  pineapple  juice 

23/£  cups  sugar  1  cup  candied  fruit 

1  cup  lemon  juice  M  cup  rum 

1  cup  orange  juice  34  cup  brandy 

Put  sugar  and  water  in  saucepan,  bring  to  the 
boiling  point  and  let  boil  ten  minutes.  Remove 
from  range,  add  fruit  juices,  cool,  and  strain.  Cut 
candied  fruits  in  small  pieces,  using  equal  parts  of 
cherries,  pineapple,  apricot,  and  plums.  Add  liq- 
uors, cover  and  let  stand  one  hour.  Freeze  mixture 
to  the  consistency  of  mush,  add  soaked  candied 
fruits  and  continue  the  freezing.  Serve  in  punch 
glasses. 

Orange  Cream  Sherbet  I 

1 34  cups  sugar  1  y2  cups  milk 

13-6  cups  orange  juice  13/6  cups  thin  cream 

Few  grains  salt 

Mix  sugar  and  orange  juice  and  add  gradually 
milk  and  cream,  then  salt.  Freeze  and  serve. 


STANDISH  PUDDING  .  —  Page  287. 


ST.  VALENTINE'S  PUDDING.  —  Page  274. 


FROZEN  DESSERTS  283 

Orange  Cream  Sherbet  II 

2  cups  boiling  water  1  ^  cups  orange  juice 

1 1^  cups  sugar  1  pint  heavy  cream 

Grated  rind  2  oranges  1A  cup  sugar 

1  cup  lemon  juice  2  eggs 
Few  grains  salt 

Dissolve  sugar  in  boiling  water,  add  orange  rind, 
lemon  juice  and  orange  juice.  Turn  into  freezer  and 
freeze  to  a  mush.  Beat  cream  until  stiff  and  add 
sugar  and  salt.  Separate  yolks  from  whites  of  eggs, 
beat  yolks  until  thick  and  lemon-colored  and  whites 
until  stiff  and  add  to  cream.  Turn  into  frozen 
mixture  and  continue  the  freezing. 

Lemon  Cream  Sherbet 

1  Yz  cups  sugar  2  cups  milk 

%  cup  lemon  juice  2  cups  thin  cream 

Few  grains  salt 

Mix  sugar  and  lemon  juice  and  add  gradually 
milk  and  cream,  then  salt.  Freeze  and  serve. 

Coffee  Ice  Cream 

2  cups  scalded  milk  1  cup  sugar 
%  cup  ground  coffee                                 1  egg 

1  tablespoon  flour  y9  teaspoon  salt 

1  quart  thin  cream 

Scald  milk  with  coffee.  Mix  flour  and  sugar,  add 
egg,  slightly  beaten,  and  milk,  gradually.  Cook 
over  hot  water  twenty  minutes,  stirring  constantly 
at  first  and  afterwards  occasionally.  Cool,  add 
cream  and  strain  through  a  double  thickness  of 


284  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

cheese-cloth,  placed  over  a  fine  sieve.  Freeze,  using 
three  pints  finely  crushed  ice  to  one  pint  rock 
salt. 

Prune  Ice  Cream 

1  cup  prunes  4  tablespoons  lemon  juice 

IK  cups  cold  water  \y±  cups  heavy  cream 

1  cup  sugar  2/8  teaspoon  salt 

Pick  over  prunes  and  soak  over  night  in  cold  water. 
Cook  in  same  water  until  soft,  remove  stones  and 
put  fruit  pulp  through  a  puree  strainer.  Add  sugar, 
lemon  juice,  salt  and  heavy  cream,  beaten  until  stiff; 
then  freeze. 

Strawberry  Ice  Cream  I 

1  quart  strawberries  1  ^  cups  milk 

1  cup  sugar  Whites  4  eggs 

\y%  cups  heavy  cream  %  teaspoon  salt 

Wash,  pick  over,  hull  and  mash  berries.  Sprinkle 
with  sugar,  cover  and  let  stand  several  hours;  then 
squeeze  through  a  double  thickness  of  cheese-cloth. 
Mix  cream,  milk,  whites  of  eggs,  beaten  until  stiff, 
and  salt.  Freeze  to  a  mush,  using  three  parts  finely 
crushed  ice  to  one  part  rock  salt.  Add  fruit  juice 
and  continue  the  freezing.  If  the  fruit  is  acid  more 
sugar  may  be  necessary. 

Quince  Ice  Cream 

Make  same  as  Strawberry  Ice  Cream  I,  using 
one-half  cup  quince  puree  in  place  of  strawberries 
and  adding  one-half  cup  quince  syrup  drained  from 


FROZEN  DESSERTS  285 

canned  quince  and  one-half  tablespoon  lemon 
juice.  To  obtain  quince  puree,  drain  canned  quince 
and  force  through  a  puree  strainer. 

Strawberry  Ice  Cream  II 

3  cups  thin  cream  Sugar 

Syrup  from  canned  strawberries  Few  grains  salt 

Red  coloring 

To  cream  add  syrup  drained  from  canned  straw- 
berries to  flavor,  sugar  to  sweeten,  and  salt;  then 
color  a  delicate  pink.  Freeze,  using  three  parts 
finely  crushed  ice  to  one  part  rock  salt. 

Normandy  Ice  Cream 

2  cups  sugar  1  pint  heavy  cream 

Y<L  cup  water  4  tablespoons  Maraschino 

Yolks  6  eggs  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Few  grains  salt 

Put  sugar  and  water  in  saucepan,  bring  to 
boiling  point  and  let  boil  until  syrup  will  spin  a 
thread  when  dropped  from  tip  of  spoon.  Pour  grad- 
ually, while  beating  constantly,  on  yolks  of  eggs,  well 
beaten.  Cool,  add  cream,  beaten  until  stiff,  and  re- 
maining ingredients.  Freeze  and  serve  in  glasses 
with  Marshmallow  Sauce. 

Marshmallow  Sauce 

%  pound  marshmallows  1  cup  confectioners'  sugar 

34  cup  boiling  water 

Cut  marshmallows  in  pieces  and  melt  in  double 
boiler.  Dissolve  sugar  in  boiling  water,  add  to  marsh- 


286  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

mallows  and  stir  until  thoroughly  blended.  Turn 
into  a  bowl  and  cool  before  serving.  A  delicious 
accompaniment  to  chocolate  or  coffee  ice  cream. 

Marshmallow  Ice  Cream 

1  cup  sugar  Whites  3  eggs 

24  cup  water  1  tablespoon  vanilla 

Y<L  pound  marshmallows  1%  cups  heavy  cream 

Put  sugar  and  water  in  saucepan,  bring  to  boiling 
point  and  let  boil  until  syrup  will  spin  a  thread  when 
dropped  from  tip  of  spoon.  Add  marshmallows,  cut 
in  halves,  and  when  partially  melted  beat,  using  an 
egg  beater,  until  mixture  is  smooth.  Pour  gradually, 
while  beating  constantly,  on  whites  of  eggs,  beaten 
until  stiff,  and  beat  until  cold ;  then  add  vanilla  and 
cream,  beaten  until  stiff.  Freeze,  using  three  parts 
finely  crushed  ice  to  one  part  rock  salt. 

Praline  Ice  Cream 

]/2  cup  sugar  ^  cup  sugar 

%  cup  chopped  pecan  nut  meats  Few  grains  salt 

2  cups  scalded  milk  1  cup  heavy  cream 
Yolks  3  eggs  %  tablespoon  vanilla 

Put  one-half  cup  sugar  in  small  omelet  pan  and 
stir  constantly,  until  caramelized.  Add  nut  meats 
and  turn  into  a  slightly  buttered  tin.  Cool,  pound 
and  pass  through  a  strainer.  Make  a  custard  of 
milk,  egg  yolks,  remaining  sugar  and  salt.  Add  pre- 
pared nuts  and  cool;  then  add  cream,  beaten  until 
stiff,  and  vanilla  and  freeze. 


MONTUOSK  PUDDIXU.  —  Page  28<S. 


STRAWBERRY  ICE  CREAM  EN  SURPRISE.  —  Page  293. 


LIGHTED  ICE  CREAM.  —  Page  294. 


MACAROON  BASKET  FILLED  WITH  ICE  CREAM.  —  Page  371. 


FROZEN  DESSERTS  287 

Henri  Apricot  Ice  Cream 

1  can  apricots  1A  cup  lemon  juice 

1  J/£  cups  orange  juice  Few  grains  salt 

1  cup  sugar 

Drain  apricots  and  force  fruit  through  a  puree 
strainer.  To  syrup  add  fruit  juices  and  salt,  and 
sweeten  to  taste;  then  add  apricot  puree.  Freeze, 
using  three  parts  finely  crushed  ice  to  one  part  rock 
salt,  and  mould  in  one-half-pound  baking  powder 
boxes.  Pack  in  salt  and  ice  and  let  stand  one  and 
one-half  hours.  Remove  from  moulds,  cut  in  slices 
for  serving,  and  garnish  with  Praline  Ice  Cream. 

Standish  Pudding 

1  quart  box  strawberries  1  pint  heavy  cream 

1  cup  granulated  sugar  ^  cup  powdered  sugar 

1  cup  water  %  tablespoon  vanilla 

Lemon  juice  %  cup  rolled  dried  macaroons 

Pick  over  strawberries,  sprinkle  with  granulated 
sugar,  cover  and  let  stand  two  hours.  Mash, 
squeeze  through  a  double  thickness  of  cheese-cloth 
and  add  water  and  lemon  juice  to  taste.  Turn  mix- 
ture into  a  brick  mould.  Beat  cream  until  stiff  and 
add  powdered  sugar,  vanilla  and  rolled  macaroons. 
Pour  over  fruit  mixture  to  overflow  mould.  Cover 
with  buttered  paper  (buttered  side  up),  adjust  cover, 
pack  in  rock  salt  and  finely  crushed  ice,  using  equal 
parts,  and  let  stand  three  hours.  Remove  from  mould 
to  chilled  serving  dish  and  garnish  with  Spun  Sugar 
(see  The  Boston  Cooking-School  Cook  Book,  p.  548). 


288  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

Montrose  Pudding 

Line  a  melon  mould  with  Lemon  Ice,  fill  with 
Maraschino  Cream,  cover  with  buttered  paper, 
adjust  cover,  pack  in  salt  and  ice,  using  one  part 
salt  to  two  parts  salt  and  ice,  and  let  stand  three 
hours.  Remove  to  serving  dish  and  garnish  with 
Maraschino  Cream,  forced  through  a  pastry  bag  and 
tube,  crystallized  mint  leaves  and  glaced  cherries. 

Lemon  Ice.  —  Make  a  syrup  by  boiling  four  cups 
water  and  two  cups  sugar  twenty  minutes.  Add 
three-fourths  cup  lemon  juice,  cool,  strain  and  freeze. 

Maraschino  Cream.  —  Beat  one  pint  heavy  cream 
until  stiff.  Add  one-half  cup  powdered  sugar,  two 
tablespoons  Maraschino  and  a  few  grains  salt. 

Glace  Helene 

Line  a  mould  with  vanilla  ice  cream  and  fill  with 
the  following  mixture:  Beat  one  pint  heavy  cream 
until  stiff  and  add  one-half  cup  powdered  sugar,  one 
jar  red  Bar-le-duc  Currants,  one  teaspoon  vanilla 
and  one  cup  canned  pineapple,  cut  in  small  cubes, 
and  soaked  in  one  tablespoon  Kirsch  one  hour. 
Cover  with  ice  cream  to  overflow  mould.  Adjust 
cover,  pack  in  salt  and  ice,  using  equal  parts,  and 
let  stand  two  hours. 

Bombe  Mousselaine 

Line  a  mould  with  strawberry  ice  and  fill  with 
the  following  mixture:  Beat  one  cup  heavy  cream 


FROZEN  DESSERTS  28$ 

until  stiff  and  add  three-fourths  cup  powdered  sugar, 
one  cup  strawberry  puree,  one  tablespoon  Kirsch  and 
one  teaspoon  vanilla.  Cover  with  strawberry  ice  to 
overflow  mould,  adjust  cover,  pack  in  salt  and  ice, 
using  equal  parts,  and  let  stand  two  hours.  To 
obtain  strawberry  puree  force  fresh  strawberries 
through  a  puree  strainer.  Remove  to  chilled  serv- 
ing dish  and  garnish  with  whipped  cream,  sweetened 
and  flavored  with  vanilla,  and  fresh  selected  straw- 
berries. 

Bombe  Supreme 

2  cups  water  1  ^  cups  orange  juice 
1  cup  sugar  1  ^  cups  grape  fruit 
Few  gratings  orange  rind  1  tablespoon  lemon  juice 
Yolks  4  eggs  1 J^  cups  heavy  cream 

1  tablespoon  granulated  ^  cup  powdered  sugar 

gelatine  Few  grains  salt 

3  tablespoons  cold  water  M  tablespoon  Maraschino 

Put  water,  sugar  and  grated  rind  in  saucepan, 
bring  to  the  boiling  point,  add  yolks  of  eggs,  slightly 
beaten,  and  boil  one  minute.  Remove  from  range 
and  add  gelatine,  soaked  in  cold  water.  Strain, 
cool,  add  fruit  juices  and  freeze.  Line  a  two- 
qaurt  melon  mould  with  frozen  mixture  and 
fill  with  cream,  beaten  until  stiff,  sweetened  and 
flavored.  Cover  with  buttered  paper,  adjust  cover, 
pack  in  salt  and  ice  and  let  stand  two  and  one- 
half  hours.  Remove  from  mould  to  serving  dish 
and  garnish  with  red  Bar-le-duc  Currants  and  pis- 
tachio nuts. 


290  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

• 

Coffee  Caramel  Parfait 

1  cup  milk  y%  cup  sugar 

2  tablespoons  ground  coffee  1  teaspoon  salt 
Yz  cup  caramelized  sugar  3  cups  cream 
Yolks  3  eggs  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Scald  milk  with  coffee  and  add  caramelized  sugar 
and  yolks  of  eggs,  slightly  beaten,  and  mixed  with 
sugar  and  salt.  Cook  until  mixture  thickens,  stirring 
constantly;  strain  and  cool.  Add  cream  and  vanilla 
and  freeze.  Line  moulds  with  mixture,  fill  cavities 
with  Sherry  Cream,  cover,  pack  in  salt  and  ice,  using 
equal  parts,  and  let  stand  two  hours.  Remove  from 
moulds  and  roll  in  Jordan  almonds,  blanched, 
shredded  and  browned  in  oven.  Arrange  on  a  serv- 
ing dish  and  surround  with  spun  sugar. 

Sherry  Cream. — Beat  one  cup  heavy  cream  until 
stiff  and  add  one-fourth  cup  powdered  sugar,  two 
tablespoons  Sherry  wine,  one-half  teaspoon  almond 
extract  and  a  few  grains  salt. 

Strawberry  Parfait  Amour 

Part  I 

1  quart  box  strawberries  Y^  cup  water 

2  cups  sugar  Whites  3  eggs 

1  pint  heavy  cream 

Wash,  pick  over,  hull  and  mash  berries.  Sprinkle 
with  one-half  the  sugar,  cover  and  let  stand  several 
hours;  then  force  through  a  fine  strainer.  Put  re- 
maining sugar  in  saucepan,  add  water,  bring  to 


FROZEN  DESSERTS  291 

boiling  point  and  let  boil  until  mixture  will  spin  a 
thread  when  dropped  from  tip  of  spoon.  Pour 
syrup  gradually,  while  beating  constantly,  on  whites 
of  eggs,  beaten  until  stiff.  Cool  and  fold  in 
cream,  beaten  until  stiff.  Freeze  strawberry  juice 
to  a  mush,  add  cream  mixture  and  continue  the 
freezing. 

Part  II 

1  pint  heavy  cream  %  cup  Jordan  almonds 

y<L  cup  powdered  sugar  %  cup  brittle 

Few  grains  salt 

Beat  cream  until  stiff  and  add  sugar,  almonds 
(blanched,  roasted  in  a  slow  oven  and  chopped), 
brittle  (broken  in  small  pieces)  and  salt.  Turn  into 
a  border  or  ring  mould,  cover  with  buttered  paper, 
adjust  cover,  pack  in  salt  and  ice,  using  two  parts 
finely  crushed  ice  to  one  part  rock  salt,  and  let  stand 
three  hours. 

Remove  Part  II  from  mould  to  chilled  serving 
dish,  pile  Part  I  in  centre  and  garnish  with  one  or 
two  crystallized  pink  California  roses.  Such  roses 
may  be  bought  of  large  city,  fancy  grocers  or  con- 
fectioners. 

For  brittle  put  one  cup  sugar  in  small  omelet  pan, 
place  on  range  and  stir  constantly,  until  reduced  to 
a  syrup.  Pour  into  a  hot  dripping  pan,  allowing 
syrup  to  barely  cover  bottom  of  pan.  Cool,  remove 
from  pan,  and  break  into  small  pieces,  using  the 
fingers. 


292  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

Marron  Plombiere 
Parti 

2  cups  scalded  milk  ys  teaspoon  salt 

%  cup  sugar  2  cups  thin  cream 

Yolks  5  eggs  2  tablespoons  brandy 

1  tablespoon  vanilla 

Make  a  custard  of  first  four  ingredients;  strain, 
cool,  add  cream  and  freeze  to  a  mush.  Add  brandy 
and  vanilla  and  finish  the  freezing. 

Part  II 

y%  tablespoon  granulated  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

gelatine  A  few  grains  salt 

2  tablespoons  cold  water  10  brandied  marrons 

24  cup  scalded  cream  34  cup  Sultana  raisins 

%  cup  powdered  sugar  5  macaroons 

2)4  cups  thin  cream  1^  tablespoons  brandy 

Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water,  dissolve  in  scalded 
cream  and  add  powdered  sugar.  Set  in  pan  of  ice 
water  and  stir  until  mixture  begins  to  thicken;  then 
add  the  whip  from  cream,  vanilla,  salt,  marrons, 
broken  in  pieces,  Sultana  raisins  and  macaroons 
(broken  in  pieces),  soaked  in  brandy  one  hour. 

Line  a  mould  with  Part  I  and  fill  with  Part  II. 
Cover,  pack  in  rock  salt  and  finely  crushed  ice,  using 
equal  parts,  and  let  stand  two  and  one-half  hours. 

New  Year's  Bomb 
Parti 

1^2  cups  milk  H  teaspoon  salt 

5  eggs  2]/2  cups  cream 

Y±  cup  sugar  1^  tablespoons  vanilla 


FROZEN  DESSERTS  293: 

Make  a  custard  of  milk,  eggs,  sugar  and  salt. 
Strain,  cool  and  add  cream  and  vanilla.  Freeze  and 
line  a  melon  mould  with  mixture. 

Part  II 

1  cup  sugar  3  tablespoons  cold  water 

2  cups  cream  H  cup  Jordan  almonds 
%  tablespoon  granulated             %  cup  powdered  sugar 

gelatine  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

^  teaspoon  salt 

Put  sugar  in  small  saucepan  or  omelet  pan,  place 
on  hot  part  of  range  and  stir  constantly  until  melted 
and  of  the  color  of  maple  syrup.  Care  must  be  taken 
to  prevent  sugar  from  adhering  to  sides  or  bottoms 
of  pan.  Turn  caramelized  sugar  into  a  dripping 
pan,  cool  and  roll.  Beat  cream  until  stiff  and  add 
gelatine,  soaked  in  cold  water  (then  heated  over  hot 
water  until  gelatine  has  dissolved),  caramelized  sugar, 
almonds  (blanched,  roasted  in  a  hot  oven  until  brown, 
and  chopped),  powdered  sugar,  vanilla  and  salt. 
Fill  lined  mould  with  Part  II,  adjust  cover,  pack  in 
salt  and  ice  and  let  stand  three  hours. 

Strawberry  Ice  Cream  en  Surprise 

Beat  wliites  of  four  eggs  until  stiff  and  add  grad- 
ually, while  beating  constantly,  two-thirds  cup  sugar, 
continuing  the  beating  until  mixture  will  hold  its 
shape;  then  cut  and  fold  in  one-third  cup  sugar  and 
flavor  with  one-half  teaspoon  vanilla.  Brush  over 
a  pasteboard  box  (of  correct  size  to  cover  a  three-pint 


294  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

brick  mould)  with  a  piece  of  tissue  paper  dipped  in 
olive  oil.  Cover  box  with  mixture  forced  through  a 
pastry  bag  and  large  rose  tube  in  parallel  rows,  length- 
wise. Place  on  tin  sheet  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven 
fifty  minutes.  Remove  case  from  box,  cool  and  put 
over  a  three-pint  brick  of  strawberry  ice  cream,  on 
a  chilled  serving  dish.  Garnish  with  a  crystallized 
pink  California  rose.  Cut  in  slices,  crosswise,  for 
serving. 

Lighted  Ice  Cream 

2  cups  scalded  milk  Canned  quinces 

^  cup  sugar  ^  cup  quince  syrup 

Yolks  3  eggs  3  tablespoons  orange  Cura9oa 

}4  teaspoon  salt  1  teaspoon  Kirsch 

2  cups  thin  cream  ^  teaspoon  rum 

Make  a  custard  of  first  four  ingredients,  strain 
and  cool.  Drain  canned  quince  and  force  some  of  the 
pulp  through  a  puree  strainer;  there  should  be  two- 
thirds  cup  pulp.  Add  to  custard,  cream,  quince  pulp 
and  remaining  ingredients.  Freeze  and  fill  one- 
pound  baking  powder  boxes,  pack  in  salt  and  ice 
and  let  stand  two  hours.  Color  cold  water  violet. 
Set  fancy  ring  mould  in  pail  on  bed  of  rock  salt 
and  finely  crushed  ice  (using  equal  parts)  and  fill 
mould  with  the  colored  water.  Add  salt  and  ice  until 
it  comes  nearly  to  top  of  mould  and  let  stand  until 
ice  is  nearly  melted.  If  by  this  time  water  is  not 
sufficiently  frozen  to  form  a  shell,  repack.  Invert 
ice  shell  and  drain  off  water.  Put  on  a  folded  napkin 
on  serving  dish  and  surround  with  slices  cut  from 


PISTACHIO  PAKFAIT. —  Page  302. 


GRAPE  FRUIT  COCKTAIL  WITH  MINT  BALLS.  —  Page  295. 


PINEAPPLE  COUPE.  —  Page  296. 


COUPE  CARUSO.  —  Page  297. 


FROZEN  DESSERTS  295 

mould  of  ice  cream,  sprinkled  with  candied  violets. 
Have  ready  a  circular  piece  of  cardboard  of  correct 
size  to  fit  ring  mould.  Cut  down  three  small  candles, 
melt  bottoms  and  place  at  regular  intervals  on  card- 
board. Light  candles  just  before  sending  to  table. 
The  effect  is  heightened  when  the  room  is  darkened. 

Chantilly  Mousse 

1  pint  heavy  cream  Few  grains  salt 

Yz  cup  sugar  10  drops  Hudnut's  essence 

of  violet 
2  cups  meringues,  broken  in  pieces 

Beat  cream  until  stiff,  using  a  Dover  egg  beater. 
Remove  beater  and  add  remaining  ingredients. 
Turn  into  a  mould,  filling  to  overflowing,  adjust 
cover,  pack  in  finely  crushed  ice  and  rock  salt  (using 
equal  parts)  and  let  stand  four  hours.  Remove  to 
serving  dish  and  garnish  with  candied  violets  and 
angelica. 

Grape  Fruit  Cocktail  with  Mint  Balls 

Remove  pulp  from  grape  fruit  and  cut  sections  in 
pieces,  Sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar  and  chill  in 
ice  box.  Serve  in  double  cocktail  glasses  and  gar- 
nish each  with  three  small  balls  made  of  Creme  de 
Menthe  Ice  (see  p.  281)  and  three  green  leaves. 

Coupe  Moquin 

Make  an  orange  ice  mixture  (see  The  Boston  Cook- 
ing-School Cook  Book,  p.  435)  and  freeze  to  a  mush; 


296  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

then  add  two  tablespoons  Creme  de  Menthe  cordial 
and  continue  the  freezing.  Serve  in  champagne  or 
coupe  glasses  and  garnish  with  Bar-le-duc  Currants, 
candied  orange  peel  and  fresh  mint  leaves. 

Hamburg  Grape  Coupe 

Beat  yolks  of  seven  eggs  until  thick  and  add  three- 
fourths  cup  sugar,  one-eighth  teaspoon  salt,  one 
quart  thin  cream  and  three  tablespoons  Sherry  wine. 
Freeze  and  fill  coupe  glasses  two-thirds  full  of  mix- 
ture and  pipe  Lemon  Ice  around  edge,  by  forcing 
through  a  pastry  bag  and  tube.  Fill  cavity  with 
Hamburg  grapes  from  which  skins  and  seeds  have 
been  removed. 

Coupe  Majestic 

Remove  pulp  from  oranges  in  sections,  allowing 
three  sections  to  each  coupe,  as  well  as  one  teaspoon 
Bar-le-duc  Currants  and  two-thirds  teaspoon  Kirsch. 
Put  prepared  fruit  in  coupe  glasses,  cover  with  Orange 
Ice  Cream  (see  The  Boston  Cooking-School  Cook 
Book,  p.  445)  and  cover  ice  cream  with  Orange  Ice 
(see  The  Boston  Cooking-School  Cook  Book,  p.  435), 
colored  pink.  Make  a  depression  in  centre  of  Orange 
Ice  and  fill  with  whipped  cream,  to  which  is  added 
Bar-le-duc  Currants.  Pour  over  each  coupe  one- 
half  teaspoon  Kirsch. 

Pineapple  Coupe 

Mix  one  half-cup,  each,  shredded  pineapple  and 
sections  of  oranges,  cut  in  pieces,  and  one-fourth  cup 


FROZEN  DESSERTS  297 

Malaga  grapes  (from  which  skin  and  seeds  have  been 
removed),  cut  in  halves.  Pour  over  two  tablespoons 
Sherry  wine  and  add  two  tablespoons  powdered  sugar 
and  a  few  grains  salt.  Cover  and  let  stand  in  ice 
box  until  thoroughly  chilled. 

Arrange  fruit  in  eight  coupe  glasses,  cover  with 
Vanilla  Ice  Cream  (see  The  Boston  Cooking-School 
Cook  Book,  p.  442),  slightly  piled  in  centre,  and  gar- 
nish with  five  triangular  pieces  of  candied  pineapple, 
five  circular  pieces  of  angelica,  and  a  glaced  cherry. 

Coupe  Suzanne 

Remove  apricots  from  can  and  cut  in  small  pieces. 
To  syrup  add  one-half  cup  sugar,  bring  to  the  boil- 
ing point  and  let  simmer  three  minutes;  add  apricots 
and  continue  the  boiling  until  syrup  is  thick  and  apri- 
cots are  very  soft.  Half  fill  coupe,  champagne  or 
frappe  glasses  with  vanilla  ice  cream,  put  one  table- 
spoon prepared  apricots  in  each,  cover  with  ice 
cream,  and  garnish  with  red  Bar-le-duc  jam. 

Coupe  Caruso 

Put  in  coupe  glasses  one  tablespoon,  each,  shredded 
pineapple  and  thin  strips  of  apple,  soaked  in  rum. 
Fill  glasses  with  Strawberry  and  Pistachio  Ice 
Cream,  using  equal  parts,  having  the  dividing  line 
between  the  two  kinds  extend  up  and  down  through 
centre  of  glass.  Spread  evenly  on  top  and  garnish 
with  diamond-shaped  pieces  of  angelica  and  one- 
half  a  glaced  cherry. 


298  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

Coupe  Louisiana 

Mix  two-thirds  cup,  each,  fresh  shredded  pine- 
apple and  strawberries,  cut  in  quarters.  Sprinkle 
with  one-fourth  cup  powdered  sugar  and  pour  over 
one-half  tablespoon  Maraschino.  Cover  and  let 
stand  in  cold  place  two  hours.  Put  mixture  in  eight 
coupe  glasses,  cover  fruit  with  Orange  Ice,  colored 
pink  (see  The  Boston  Cooking-School  Cook  Book,  p. 
435).  Cover  ice  with  Strawberry  Ice  Cream  and 
garnish  top  of  each  with  a  small  cream  cake  filled 
with  whipped  cream,  sweetened  and  flavored  with 
vanilla,  and  covered  with  Confectioners'  Frosting 
(see  The  Boston  Cooking-School  Cook  Book,  p. 
527),  colored  pink. 

Cognac  Pear  Coupe 

Drain  canned  pears  from  syrup  and  to  syrup  add 
one-half  cup  sugar  and  a  few  grains  salt.  Bring  to 
the  boiling  point  and  let  simmer  fifteen  minutes. 
Add  two  tablespoons  brandy  and  eight  whole  pears. 
Place  on  back  of  range  and  let  stand  ten  minutes; 
then  drain.  Cut  remaining  pears  in  small  pieces; 
there  should  be  one  cup.  Add  one-half  slice  canned 
pineapple,  cut  in  small  pieces,  and  two  tablespoons 
Maraschino  cherries,  cut  in  quarters,  and  pour  over 
one  tablespoon  brandy  and  one-fourth  cup  pineapple 
syrup.  Arrange  fruit  in  eight  coupe  glasses,  cover 
with  Vanilla  Ice  Cream,  place  whole  pears  in  centre 
and  garnish  with  whipped  cream,  sweetened  and 


PAKFAIT  A.MOUH.  —  Page  300. 


COGNAC  PEAR  COUPE.  —  Page  298. 


FROZEN  DESSERTS  299 

flavored  with  vanilla  and  forced  through  a  pastry 
bag  and  tube. 

Chocolate  Mint  Coupe 

Put  a  layer  of  Chocolate  Ice  Cream  in  coupe  glass, 
cover  with  a  layer  of  Mint  Cream,  and  cover  mint 
cream  with  a  layer  of  chocolate  ice  cream.  Garnish 
each  with  a  glaced  mint  paste. 

Chocolate  Ice  Cream. — Put  one-half  pound  sweet 
chocolate  in  double  boiler,  add  two  cups  cold  milk 
and  cook  over  hot  water  until  thick  and  smooth ;  the 
time  required  being  about  fifteen  minutes.  Beat 
four  eggs  and  add  one  cup  sugar;  then  add  one  cup 
thin  cream,  one  tablespoon,  each,  vanilla  and  brandy 
and  one-eighth  teaspoon  salt.  Combine  mixtures, 
strain  and  freeze. 

Mint  Cream.  —  Mix  one  cup  heavy  cream,  one  cup 
milk,  one-half  cup  sugar  and  five  tablespoons  Creme 
de  Menthe;  then  freeze. 

Plombiere  Charlotte 

Turn  contents  one  can  peaches  into  a  saucepan, 
add  one-third  cup  sugar  and  a  few  grains  salt,  bring 
to  the  boiling  point  and  let  simmer  until  syrup  is 
thick.  Cut  fruit  in  small  pieces,  pour  over  two 
tablespoons  brandy  and  chill.  Put  one  tablespoon 
prepared  fruit  in  each  coupe  glass,  cover  with  Jun- 
ket Ice  Cream  (see  The  Boston  Cooking-School 
Cook  Book,  p.  448)  and  arrange  four  halves  of  lady 
fingers  at  equal  distances  on  top.  Fill  spaces  with 


300  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

heavy  cream,  whipped,  sweetened  and  flavored  with 
brandy  and  vanilla  in  combination.  Garnish  top 
of  each  with  a  glaced  cherry. 

Frozen  Orange  Whip 

1  cup  sugar  J4  cup  orange  juice 
%  cup  water  1  pint  heavy  cream 
Grated  rind  2  oranges                           2  oranges 

Boil  sugar  and  water  until  syrup  will  thread  when 
dropped  from  tip  of  spoon.  Add  grated  rind  and 
orange  juice,  cover  and  keep  warm  one  hour;  then 
cool.  Beat  cream  until  stiff  and  add,  gradually,  the 
orange  syrup.  Cut  oranges  in  halves,  crosswise,  and 
remove  pulp  and  separate  into  small  pieces.  Pour 
juice  from  the  two  oranges  into  a  brick  mould;  then 
put  in  alternate  layers  of  cream  and  orange  pulp 
until  mould  is  filled  to  overflowing.  Adjust  cover, 
pack  in  salt  and  ice,  using  equal  parts,  and  let  stand 
two  hours. 

Parf ait  Amour 

4  cups  water  Grated  rind  2  oranges 

2  cups  sugar  Granadine 
2  cups  orange  juice  Kirsch 

%  cup  lemon  juice  Brandy 

Mix  water  and  sugar,  bring  to  the  boiling  point 
and  let  boil  one  minute.  Add  fruit  juices  and  grated 
rind;  cool,  strain  and  freeze.  Serve  in  tall  coupe 
glasses,  make  a  depression  in  each  one,  using  an 
apple  corer,  and  fill  each  cavity  with  one  teaspoon 
granadine,  one  teaspoon  Kirsch  and  one-half  tea- 


FROZEN  DESSERTS  301 

spoon  brandy.  By  adding  the  liquors  in  this  order 
their  difference  in  specific  gravity  will  cause  them  to 
appear  in  three  distinct  layers. 

Pineapple  Marquise 

2  cups  sugar  Few  grains  salt 

2  cups  water  1  pint  heavy  cream 

2  cups  pineapple  juice  1  cup  pineapple  pur6e 

Juice  1  lemon  ^t  cup  powdered  sugar 

}4  cup  Swiss  Kirsch  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Make  a  syrup  by  boiling  sugar  and  water  two  min- 
utes, add  pineapple  juice,  lemon  juice,  Kirsch  and 
salt,  and  freeze,  using  equal  parts  of  finely  crushed 
ice  and  rock  salt.  Just  before  serving  add  remaining 
ingredients.  Serve  in  coupe  or  champagne  glasses. 
To  obtain  pineapple  puree,  force  canned  pineapple 
through  a  puree  strainer. 

Armandine  Punch 

1  can  peaches  H  cup  prunes 

%  cup  sugar  ^  cup  Maraschino  cherries 

1  ^  cups  water  H  cup  white  canned  cherries 

Few  grains  salt  %  cup  brandy 

Whites  5  eggs  Heavy  cream 

1  tablespoon  lemon  juice       Powdered  sugar 

%  cup  rum  Red  coloring 

Ji  cup  raisins  .  Peach  extract 

Add  sugar  to  peaches,  bring  to  the  boiling  point 
and  let  simmer  thirty  minutes;  then  rub  through  a 
sieve.  Add  water,  salt,  egg  whites,  unbeaten,  and 
lemon  juice.  Freeze  to  a  mush  and  add  rum,  raisins, 


302  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

seeded  and  cut  in  pieces,  prunes,  stoned  and  cut  in 
pieces,  Maraschino  cherries,  cut  in  halves,  and  canned 
cherries,  cut  in  halves,  soaked  in  brandy  over  night 
or  for  several  hours;  then  freeze  until  of  the  right 
consistency. 

Serve  in  coupe  glasses  and  pour  over  each  two 
tablespoons  heavy  cream,  colored  pink,  sweetened 
and  flavored  with  peach  extract. 

Pistachio  Parfait 

1  cup  sugar  1  pint  heavy  cream 

%  cup  water  Burnett's  Leaf  Green 

Whites  3  eggs  ^  cup  finely  chopped 
1  tablespoon  vanilla  pistachio  nuts^ 

1  teaspoon  almond  extract  Whipped  cream 

Boil  sugar  and  water  until  syrup  will  thread  when 
dropped  from  tip  of  spoon.  Pour  slowly,  while  stir- 
ring constantly,  on  the  beaten  whites  of  eggs,  and 
continue  the  beating  until  mixture  is  cold;  then  add 
flavoring.  Color  cream  a  delicate  green  and  beat 
until  stiff.  Add  to  first  mixture  with  nut  meats. 
Freeze,  using  three  pints  finely  crushed  ice  to  one 
pint  rock  salt,  and  serve  in  glasses.  Garnish  top 
with  whipped  cream,  sweetened  and  flavored  with 
vanilla,  and  sprinkle  with  chopped  pistachio  nuts. 

Marron  Parfait 

1  cup  sugar  1  cup  marrons,  cut  in  pieces 

J^  cup  water  1  tablespoon  rum 

Yolks  6  eggs  1  pint  heavy  cream 

2  teaspoons  vanilla 


MOCK  MINCE  PIE.  —  Page  306. 


PUMPKIN  PIE.  —  Page  308. 


CHOCOLATE  CUSTARD  PIE.  —  Page  308. 


MARLBOROUGH  PIE.  —  Pa^re  307. 


FROZEN  DESSERTS  303 

Put  sugar  and  water  in  saucepan;  bring  to  the 
boiling  point  and  let  boil  five  minutes.  Pour  syrup 
gradually,  while  beating  constantly,  on  yolks  of 
eggs,  beaten  until  thick,  and  cook  over  hot  water, 
stirring  constantly  until  mixture  thickens.  Remove 
from  fire  and  beat  until  cold.  Add  marrons,  which 
have  soaked  in  rum  one-half  hour,  cream  beaten 
until  stiff  and  vanilla. 

Turn  into  moulds,  adjust  covers,  pack  in  salt  and 
ice  (using  equal  parts)  and  let  stand  four  hours. 
Remove  to  chilled  serving  dish  and  garnish  with 
whipped  cream  (sweetened  and  flavored)  and  mar- 
rons. 


M 


CHAPTER   XXVI 
PASTRY  AND  PIES 

Family  Paste 

IX  and  sift  two  cups  pastry  flour  with  one  and 
one-half  teaspoons  salt  and  work  in  two-thirds 
cup  lard,  using  the  tips  of  the  fingers.  Moisten  with 
one-half  cup  cold  water  and  toss  two-thirds  of  the 
mixture  on  a  slightly  floured  board.  Pat  and  roll  in 
rectangular  shape,  spread  with  one  tablespoon  lard 
and  dredge  with  flour.  Cut  in  thirds,  lengthwise; 
pile  strips  one  on  top  of  another.  Fold  in  halves 
and  then  in  quarters.  Again  pat  and  roll  out,  spread, 
dredge  and  fold  as  before.  Cut  in  halves,  turn  over, 
having  cut  edges  come  on  top.  Pat  and  roll  each 
piece  to  fit  top  of  pie,  and  pat  and  roll  reserved  third 
for  two  undercrusts. 

Oscar's  Paste 

2%  cups  pastry  flour  %  cup  washed  butter 

%  cup  cold  water  2  tablespoons  lard 

Put  two  cups  flour  in  bowl,  add  gradually  cold 
water  and  beat  until  smooth.  Put  one-third  cup 
flour  on  board  or  cloth,  turn  mixture  from  bowl  on 
flour.  Put  two-thirds  washed  butter  mixed  with  lard 
in  centre  of  mixture,  draw  mixture  over  butter, 
sprinkle  top  generously  with  some  of  the  remaining 


PASTRY  AND  PIES  305 

one-third  flour  and  pat  and  fold  four  times.  Again 
sprinkle  with  flour  and  pat  and  roll  in  long  rectangu- 
lar shape.  Spread  with  remaining  butter,  dredge 
with  flour  and  fold  from  ends  towards  centre,  mak- 
ing three  layers.  Pat,  roll  and  again  fold;  repeat 
three  times. 

Puff  Paste  (by  Measurement) 

I 

IK  cups  bread  flour,  once  sifted 
1  cup  washed  butter 

II 

1  cup  bread  flour,  once  sifted 
Y^  cup  pastry  flour,  once  sifted 
1  cup  washed  butter 

Either  I  or  II  gives  the  correct  ingredients  by 
measure  for  the  making  of  puff  paste.  These  have 
been  worked  out  at  the  request  of  many  pupils  who 
often  do  not  have  family  scales  or  if  they  do  have 
them,  find  they  do  not  always  weigh  correctly  or 
are  carelessly  used.  Follow  directions  for  the  mak- 
ing in  The  Boston  Cooking-School  Cook  Book,  p.  46L 

,  •  Irish  Puff  Paste 

2  cups  bread  flour  2  cups  butter 

Cold  water 

Put  flour  in  bowl  and  add  butter,  separated  into 
small  pieces.  Moisten  to  a  dough  with  water  and  toss 
on  a  slightly  floured  board  or  cloth.  Pound,  using  the 
rolling  pin,  until  butter  is  thoroughly  incorporated 
throughout  the  mixture.  If  butter  becomes  so  soft 


306  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

that  the  handling  is  difficult,  put  on  ice  to  chill.  When 
thoroughly  blended,  pat,  roll,  shape  and  bake. 

Cataldi's  Puff  Paste 

1  pound  pastry  flour  Yolk  1  egg 

2  tablespoons  lemon  juice  Cold  water 

Yz  teaspoon  salt  1  pound  washed  butter 

Put  flour,  once  sifted,  in  bowl,  make  a  depression 
in  centre,  pour  in  lemon  juice  and  add  yolk  of  egg 
and  salt;  then  add  cold  water  to  make  a  dough.  Toss 
on  a  floured  cloth,  knead,  cover  and  let  stand  five 
minutes.  Pat,  roll  out  and  fold  in  washed  butter, 
same  as  puff  paste  (see  The  Boston  Cooking-School 
Cook  Book,  p.  461). 

Mock  Mince  Pie  Meat 

3  pints  chopped  apples  1  teaspoon  clove 

3  pints  chopped  green  tomatoes  %  teaspoon  allspice 

4  cups  brown  sugar  %  teaspoon  mace 
l^j  cups  vinegar  %  teaspoon  pepper 
3  cups  raisins  2  teaspoons  salt 

3  teaspoons  cinnamon  %  cup  butter 

Mix  apples  with  tomatoes  and  drain.  Add  remain- 
ing ingredients,  except  butter,  bring  gradually  to  the 
boiling  point,  and  let  simmer  three  hours,  then  add 
butter.  Turn  into  glass  jars  as  soon  as  made. 

Banana  Pie 

1  cup  scalded  milk  %  cup  thin  cream  or  top  milk 

%  cup  sugar  %  tablespoon  lemon  juice 

2^  tablespoons  flour  1  large  banana 

%  teaspoon  salt  .      Whites  2  eggs 

Yolks  2  eggs  2  tablespoons  powdered  sugar 

34  teaspoon  lemon  extract 


PASTRY  AND  PIES  307 

Mix  sugar,  flour  and  salt,  and  add  egg  yolks, 
slightly  beaten.  Pour  on  scalded  milk  gradually, 
while  stirring  constantly,  and  cook  in  double  boiler 
fifteen  minutes,  stirring  constantly  until  mixture 
thickens,  and  afterwards  occasionally.  Cool  and 
add  cream,  lemon  juice  and  banana,  peeled,  scraped 
and  cut  in  one-eighth-inch  slices.  Chill  thoroughly 
and  turn  into  a  pastry  pie  case  (see  The  Boston  Cook- 
ing-School Cook  Book,  p.  466). 

Just  before  serving  beat  whites  of  eggs  until  stiff, 
add  sugar,  gradually,  and  lemon  juice.  Spread  evenly 
over  pie  and  put  under  gas  flame  to  cook  until  deli- 
cately browned. 

Maryborough  Pie 

3  apples  Grated  rind  Yv  lemon 

%  cup  butter  1  ^  tablespoons  lemon  juice 

%  cup  sugar  1 YL  tablespoons  Sherry  wine 

3  eggs,  slightly  beaten  Few  grains  salt 

Wipe,  pare,  core  and  steam  three  apples;  then  rub 
through  a  fine  sieve  and  add  remaining  ingredients. 
Line  a  pie-plate  with  paste,  put  on  rim  and  turn  in 
mixture.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  firm.  Gar- 
nish top  lattice  fashion  with  Meringue  II  (see  The 
Boston  Cooking-School  Cook  Book,  p.  480)  forced 
through  a  pastry  bag  and  round  tube,  then  pipe 
a  border  around  edge.  Ornament  with  diamond- 
shaped  pieces  and  cubes  of  currant  or  crab  apple 
jelly,  as  shown  in  illustration. 


308  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

Rhubarb  and  Raisin  Pie 

Line  a  plate  with  plain  paste  and  fill  with  two 
cups  rhubarb,  cut  in  one-quarter-inch  pieces.  Sprin- 
kle with  one  cup  sugar  and  one-half  cup  raisins, 
seeded  and  cut  in  halves.  Cover  with  crust  and  bake 
in  a  moderate  oven  forty-five  minutes. 

Pumpkin  Pie 

1  Yz  cups  steamed  and  ^  teaspoon  ginger 

strained  pumpkin  ^  teaspoon  salt 

%j  cup  brown  sugar  2  eggs 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon  \Yz  cups  milk 
^  cup  cream 

Mix  sugar,  spices  and  salt  and  add  pumpkin,  eggs, 
slightly  beaten,  and  milk  and  cream,  gradually. 
Bake  in  one  crust,  cool  and  serve  with 

Brandy  Sauce. — Cream  one-fourth  cup  butter  and 
add  gradually,  while  beating  constantly,  one  and 
one-half  cups  brown  sugar  and  two  tablespoons 
brandy;  then  add  yolks  two  eggs,  well  beaten,  and 
one-half  cup  milk.  Cook  over  hot  water,  stirring 
constantly,  until  mixture  thickens.  Pour  mixture 
gradually,  while  beating  constantly,  on  whites  of  two 
-eggs  beaten  until  stiff. 

Chocolate  Custard  Pie 

1^8  cups  milk  \Yi  teaspoons  butter 

2  tablespoons  grated  2  egg  yolks 

chocolate  3^  teaspoons  cornstarch 

Yi  cup  sugar  YL  teaspoon  vanilla 


PASTRY  AND  PIES  309 

Scald  one  cup  milk  with  grated  chocolate,  sugar 
and  butter.  Add  egg  yolks,  slightly  beaten,  and  corn- 
starch,  diluted  with  remaining  milk,  and  cook  ten 
minutes,  stirring  constantly  until  mixture  thickens 
and  afterwards  occasionally;  then  add  vanilla. 
Fill  a  pastry  pie  case  with  mixture,  cover  with  Me- 
ringue II  (see  The  Boston  Cooking-School  Cook  Book, 
p.  480),  forced  through  a  pastry  bag  and  tube,  and 
bake  until  firm  and  delicately  browned. 

Butter  Scotch  Pie 

Roll  paste  to  one-fourth  inch  in  thickness,  cut 
three  circles  nine  inches  in  diameter,  prick,  place  on 
a  tin  sheet  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven.  Put  between 
layers  Butter  Scotch  Filling  and  cover  top  with 
meringue. 

Butter  Scotch  Filling.  —  Cream  four  tablespoons 
butter  and  add  gradually  six  tablespoons  flour;  then 
add  three-fourths  cup  brown  sugar,  mixed  with  two 
eggs  slightly  beaten,  and  one-half  teaspoon  salt. 
Scald  two  cups  milk,  add  three  teaspoons  caramel 
syrup  and  add  gradually  to  mixture.  Return  to 
double  boiler  and  cook  fifteen  minutes,  stirring  con- 
stantly until  mixture  thickens  and  afterwards  oc- 
casionally. Caramel  syrup  is  made  by  caramelizing 
one-half  cup  sugar,  adding  one-third  cup  boiling 
water  and  letting  boil  until  a  thick  syrup  is  formed, 

Meringue.  —  Beat  whites  three  eggs  until  stiff, 
and  add  gradually,  while  beating  constantly,  three 
tablespoons  brown  sugar  and  a  few  grains  salt; 


310  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

then  cut  and   fold  in  two  tablespoons  powdered 
sugar. 

Frangipan  Cream  Pie 

Roll  paste  to  one-fourth-inch  thickness  and  cut 
three  circular  pieces,  nine  inches  in  diameter.  Place 
on  a  tin  sheet,  prick  with  a  fork  and  bake  in  a  hot 
oven.  Put  together  with  Frangipan  Cream  (see  p. 
346)  and  dust  top  with  powdered  sugar. 

Devonshire  Pie 

Roll  paste  one-quarter  inch  in  thickness,  cut  three 
circles  nine  inches  in  diameter  and  prick  with  a 
fork.  From  one  of  the  pieces  cut  a  circle  seven  and 
one-half  inches  in  diameter,  leaving  a  one  and  one- 
half  inch  ring.  Place  on  a  tin  sheet  and  bake  in  a 
hot  oven.  Put  cream  filling  between  pieces,  place 
ring  on  top,  and  fill  space  with  fresh  strawberries, 
sweetened  to  taste.  Garnish  or  not,  as  desired,  with 
whipped  cream,  sweetened  and  flavored  with  vanilla. 

Apple  Flawn 

Wipe,  pare,  quarter,  core  and  thinly  slice  four 
apples.  Put  in  saucepan  with  one  tablespoon  butter, 
three  tablespoons  powdered  sugar,  grated  rind  one- 
fourth  lemon,  and  one-inch-piece  stick  cinnamon. 
Cook,  stirring  constantly,  until  reduced  to  a  thick 
puree;  then  remove  cinnamon.  Add  one-third  the 
measure  of  apricot  puree  and  season  with  one-half 


PASTRY  AND  PIES  311 

tablespoon  Apricot  Brandy,  a  few  grains  salt  and 
more  sugar  if  needed. 

Wipe  and  pare  three  selected  apples,  cut  in  eighths, 
lengthwise,  and  remove  cores.  Make  a  syrup  by 
boiling  one  cup  sugar  and  one  cup  water  ten  minutes. 
Add  one  teaspoon  vanilla  and  one-half  the  pieces  of 
apple.  Cook  slowly  until  apples  are  soft  and  clear. 
Remove  from  syrup  and  coat  each  piece  with  some 
of  the  syrup.  To  remaining  syrup  add  one-fourth  cup 
boiling  water  and  color  red.  Bring  to  the  boiling 
point,  add  remaining  apples  and  cook  and  coat.  Fill 
pie  pastry  shell  with  first  mixture  and  garnish  top 
with  alternate  sections  of  prepared  apples,  working 
from  outside  towards  centre. 


CHAPTER   XXVII 

PASTRY  DESSERTS 
Apple  Dumplings 

OLL  Plain  Paste  (see  The  Boston  Cooking-School 
Cook  Book,  p.  463),  or  Family  Paste  very  thin 
and  cut  in  squares.  Pare  and  core  eight  medium- 
sized  apples  and  place  an  apple  on  each  square.  Fill 
cavities  with  sugar  and  add  a  few  grains,  each,  of  cin- 
namon and  nutmeg  and  a  bit  of  butter.  Wet  edges  of 
pastry  with  white  of  egg  and  fold  points  over  apples. 
Place  in  dripping  pan  and  pour  around  one  cup  boil- 
ing water,  to  which  have  been  added  one-half  cup 
sugar,  one-fourth  cup  butter  and  one-half  teaspoon 
cinnamon.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven  until  apples  are  soft. 
Before  removing  from  oven,  brush  over  with  white 
of  egg  and  sprinkle  with  sugar.  Serve  with  Creamy 
Sauce  I  (see  The  Boston  Cooking-School  Cook  Book, 
p.  408). 

Pastry  Stars 

Roll  puff  paste  to  one-eighth  inch  in  thickness  and 
cut  in  three-inch  squares.  Make  a  one  and  one-half 
inch  cut  from  four  corners  on  diagonal  of  squares  and 
fold  alternate  corners  to  centre  in  such  a  way  as  to 
make  star  shapes.  Arrange  on  a  tin  sheet  and  bake 


PASTRY  DESSERTS  313 

in  a  hot  oven.    Cool,  press  down  centres  and  fill  with 
any  conserve. 

Nut  Pastry  Sticks 

Roll  plain  paste  to  one-fourth  inch  in  thickness 
and  cut  in  strips  five  inches  long  by  one  inch  wide, 
using  a  pastry  jagger.  Arrange  on  a  tin  sheet  and 
bake  in  a  hot  oven.  Cool  slightly,  brush  over  with 
white  of  one  egg,  slightly  beaten  and  diluted  with 
one  teaspoon  cold  water.  Sprinkle  generously  with 
chopped  pecan  nut  meats,  return  to  oven  and  bake 
two  minutes. 

Swedish  Tea  Circles 

Roll  Oscar's  Paste  (see  p.  304)  to  one-third  inch 
in  thickness  and  spread  generously  with  chopped 
blanched  Jordan  almonds,  mixed  with  sugar,  using 
one-half  as  much  sugar  as  nut  meats.  Pat  and  roll 
to  one-eighth  inch  in  thickness  and  shape  with  a 
small  circular  cutter,  first  dipped  in  flour.  Arrange 
on  a  tin  sheet  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  eight  minutes. 

Nut  Pastry  Rolls 

Roll  paste  to  one-eighth  inch  in  thickness  and  cut 
in  pieces  five  by  three  inches.  Spread  with  jelly, 
which  has  been  beaten  with  a  fork  until  of  right  con- 
sistency to  spread,  sprinkle  with  chopped  pecan  nut 
meats,  and  roll  each  piece  separately  like  a  jelly  roll. 
Place  on  a  tin  sheet,  having  end  of  rolls  nearest  sheet, 
which  keeps  them  in  better  shape.  Bake  in  a  hot 
oven. 


314  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

Marguerite  Squares 

Pat  and  roll  puff  paste  to  one-eighth  inch  in 
thickness  and  cut  in  two-inch  squares.  Arrange  on 
a  tin  sheet  and  bake  until  delicately  browned.  Cool 
slightly,  spread  with  Marguerite  Frosting,  having  it 
come  nearly  to  edge  of  pastry,  and  return  to  oven  to 
finish  the  baking.  Arrange  on  plate  covered  with  a 
lace  paper  doily. 

Marguerite  Frosting.  —  Put  one  and  one-half  cups 
sugar  in  a  small  saucepan,  pour  over  one-half  cup 
water,  bring  to  the  boiling  point  and  let  boil  until 
syrup  will  spin  a  long  thread  when  dropped  from 
tip  of  spoon  or  tines  of  fork.  Remove  to  back  of 
range  and  add  twelve  marshmallows,  cut  in  eighths. 
Pour  gradually,  while  beating  constantly,  on  whites 
of  two  eggs,  beaten  until  stiff,  and  as  soon  as  thor- 
oughly blended  add  one-fourth  cup  shredded  cocoa- 
nut,  one-third  cup  currants  or  Sultana  raisins  and 
one-fourth  teaspoon  vanilla.  If  one  is  carrying  out 
a  color  scheme,  color  as  desired. 

Pineapple  Tartlets 

Roll  paste  to  one-quarter  inch  in  thickness.  Line 
patty  pans  with  paste,  prick,  fill  two-thirds  full  of 
rice  or  barley  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  until  delicately 
browned.  Mix  three-quarters  cup  sugar  and  two 
tablespoons  flour.  Pour  on  gradually,  while  stirring 
constantly,  one-half  cup  water,  bring  to  the  boiling 
point  and  let  boil  five  minutes.  Add  one-half  can 


PASTRY  DESSERTS  315 

shredded  pineapple,  yolks  two  eggs,  slightly  beaten, 
and  one-quarter  teaspoon  salt.  Fill  pastry  cases 
with  pineapple  mixture,  cover  with  meringue  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  meringue  is  set  and 
delicately  browned. 

Pineapple  Circles 

Put  one  can  sliced  pineapple  in  saucepan,  add  one- 
third  cup  sugar,  bring  to  the  boiling  point  and  let 
simmer  until  fruit  is  soft.  Roll  paste  to  one-fourth 
inch  in  thickness,  cut  in  circles,  same  size  as  pine- 
apple slices,  arrange  on  tin  sheet,  prick  and  bake  in 
a  hot  oven  ten  minutes.  Put  together  in  pairs  with 
White  Mountain  Cream  Filling  (see  p.  345).  Place 
a  slice  of  pineapple  on  each  and  garnish  centres  with 
halves  of  candied  cherries. 

Amsterdam  Pastry  Novelties 

Roll  paste  to  one-fourth  inch  in  thickness  and  cut 
in  pieces  six  inches  by  two  inches.  Sprinkle  ends  with 
sugar  mixed  with  cinnamon  (using  three  parts  sugar 
to  one  part  cinnamon)  and  roll  toward  centre  twice. 
Prick  unrolled  part  with  a  fork,  place  on  a  tin  sheet 
and  bake  in  a  hot  oven.  Spread  unrolled  sections 
with  currant  jelly,  which  has  been  beaten  with  a  fork 
until  of  right  consistency  to  spread  evenly.  Over 
jelly  arrange  one-inch  sections  of  canned  peaches.  If 
peaches  are  not  soft,  cook  in  their  own  syrup,  to  which 
a  small  quantity  of  sugar  has  been  added. 


316  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

Mont  Blanc 

Pat  and  roll  puff  or  Oscar's  Paste  to  one-eighth  inch 
in  thickness  and  cut  in  three  pieces  twelve  by  three 
inches.  Place  on  tin  sheet,  prick  and  bake  in  a  hot 
oven.  Cut  each  piece  in  quarters  crosswise,  using  a 
sharp  knife.  Arrange  four  in  square  shape  on  serving 
dish,  leaving  a  small  space  between  each.  Cover 
with  fresh,  or  canned  fruit;  cover  fruit  with  pastry 
squares  and  pastry  squares  again  with  fruit;  repeat. 
Spread  sides  with  whipped  cream,  sweetened  and 
flavored  with  vanilla,  and  garnish  with  whipped 
cream,  forced  through  a  pastry  bag  and  tube,  and 
chopped  pistachio  nuts. 

Peach  Pralines 

Roll  paste  to  one-eighth  inch  in  thickness  and  cut 
in  eight  rounds  of  correct  size  to  cover  inverted, 
circular  individual  tins.  Cover  tins  with  paste,  prick 
several  times  and  bake  until  delicately  browned.  Re- 
move from  pans,  put  two  tablespoons  Praline  Cream 
(see  p.  346)  in  each,  on  cream  place  one-half  a  canned 
peach,  poached  in  its  syrup,  cover  with  meringue  and 
bake  until  delicately  browned. 

St.  Valentine's  Hearts 

Roll  paste  to  one-fourth  inch  in  thickness,  shape 
with  a  heart-shaped  cutter,  first  dipped  in  flour,  place 
on  a  tin  sheet  and  bake  until  delicately  browned. 
Split,  fill  with  orange  marmalade,  cover  tops  with 


DEVONSHIRE  PIE.  —  Page  310. 


MONT  BLANC.  —  .Pa      316. 


KESWICK  GINGERBREAD.  —  Page  319. 


NUT  OATMEAL  COOKIES.  —  Page  321. 


PASTRY  DESSERTS  317 

orange  frosting  and  sprinkle  around  edge  a  border 
of  chopped,  candied  orange  peel.  Arrange  on  a  plate 
covered  with  a  heart-shaped  lace  paper  doily. 

Cocoanut  Fluffs 

Roll  paste  to  one-fourth  inch  in  thickness,  cover  in- 
verted individual  round  tins,  prick,  place  on  tin  sheet 
and  bake  in  a  hot  oven.  Cut  circular  pieces  to  fit 
top  of  tins  and  bake.  Fill  cakes  with  cocoanut  mix- 
ture and  cover  with  tops.  For  the  mixture  soak  one- 
half  cup  shredded  cocoanut  in  one-fourth  cup  milk 
one  hour.  Heat  in  double  boiler  and  add  gradually, 
while  stirring  constantly,  one-half  tablespoon  corn- 
starch,  diluted  with  one  tablespoon  cold  water,  and 
cook  fifteen  minutes,  stirring  constantly,  until  mix- 
ture thickens,  and  afterwards  occasionally.  Scald 
one-half  cup  milk  and  add  one  egg  yolk  mixed  with 
one-fourth  cup  sugar,  one  tablespoon  flour  and  one- 
eighth  teaspoon  salt.  Cook  fifteen  minutes,  stirring 
constantly,  until  mixture  thickens,  and  afterwards 
occasionally.  Add  one  tablespoon  butter,  cocoanut 
mixture,  and  one-half  teaspoon  vanilla;  then  fold  in 
the  white  of  one  egg,  beaten  until  stiff. 

Venetian  Boats 

Roll  puff  paste  to  one-eighth  inch  in  thickness  and 
line  small  boat-shaped  tins.  Prick  and  half  fill  with 
spice  cake  mixture;  sprinkle  with  chopped  pecan 
nut  meats,  put  on  a  tin  sheet  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven. 


318  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

For  the  spice  cake  mixture, — cream  one-fourth  cup 
butter  and  add  one-fourth  cup  brown  sugar  gradually, 
while  beating  constantly;  then  add  yolks  two  eggs, 
beaten  until  thick,  one-fourth  cup,  each,  molasses 
and  milk  and  one  and  one-eighth  cups  flour,  mixed 
and  sifted  with  one-fourth  teaspoon  each  soda  and 
clove,  one-eighth  teaspoon  grated  nutmeg,  a  few 
grains  cayenne  and  a  few  gratings  from  the  rind  of 
a  lemon. 


CHAPTER  XXVIII 

GINGERBREADS,  COOKIES,  AND  WAFERS 

Marshmallow  Gingerbread 

Yz  cup  shortening  1  %  teaspoons  soda 

1  cup  molasses  1  teaspoon  salt 

1  egg  1  teaspoon  ginger 

2%  cups  flour  1  cup  sour  milk 

Marshmallow  s 

A/TELT  shortening  (chicken  fat  may  be  used  to 
-L*  A  excellent  advantage)  and  add  molasses,  egg, 
well  beaten,  flour  mixed  and  sifted  with  soda,  salt 
and  ginger  and  sour  milk.  Beat  vigorously,  turn 
into  a  buttered  and  floured  dripping  pan  and  bake 
in  a  moderate  oven  twenty-five  minutes.  Remove 
from  pan,  cut  in  halves,  crosswise,  and  put  marsh- 
mallows  between  layers.  Put  in  oven  and  let  stand 
three  minutes.  Remove  to  serving  dish,  cool  slightly, 
cut  in  squares  and  serve  with  whipped  cream,  sweet- 
ened and  flavored  with  vanilla. 

Keswick  Gingerbread 

%  pound  butter  %  pound  brown  sugar 

y±  pound  flour  ^  teaspoon  ginger 

1  ounce  candied  lemon  peel 

Work  butter  into  flour,  using  the  hands,  and  when 
well  mixed,  add  sugar,  ginger,  and  lemon  peel,  cut 


320  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

in  small  pieces,  mixing  with  the  hands.  Press  into 
a  buttered  pan  two  and  one-half  inches  in  thickness, 
using  the  back  of  the  hand,  and  sprinkle  with  one- 
half  cup  of  the  mixture  which  has  been  reserved  for 
the  purpose.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven,  cut  in  squares 
and  let  stand  until  cold;  then  remove  from  pan. 

/Shubert  Gingerbread 

2  cups  bread  flour  Y%  cup  sour  milk 

Yz  cup  butter  Yi  teaspoon  soda 

Yz  cup  sugar  ^  teaspoon  ginger 

1  egg  Yi  teaspoon  grated  nutmeg 

}4  teaspoon  cinnamon 

Work  flour  and  butter  togetner,  using  the  hands, 
until  thoroughly  mixed;  then  add  sugar  and  again 
work  together,  using  the  hands.  Reserve  one  cup 
of  the  mixture  and  to  the  remainder  add  egg,  well 
beaten,  and  sour  milk,  mixed  with  soda  and  spices. 
Butter  a  shallow  cake  pan  and  sprinkle  evenly  with 
one-half  of  the  reserved  crumbs.  Spread  over  the 
batter,  sprinkle  with  remaining  crumbs  and  bake  in 
a  moderate  oven.  Cut  in  squares  or  finger-shaped 
pieces  while  still  hot,  and  remove  from  pan. 

Sour  Cream  Molasses  Cookies 

Y±  cup  lard  %  cup  sour  cream 

%  cup  brown  sugar  1  tablespoon  soda 

Y±  cup  molasses  1  tablespoon  salt 

2  eggs  .       Yz  tablespoon  ginger 

Flour 

Work  lard  and  sugar  together  until  creamy;  then 
add  molasses,  eggs,  well  beaten,  sour  cream,  mixed 


PEANUT  BAUS.  —  Page  321. 


PEANUT  MACAROONS.  —  Page  323. 


MARSHMALLOW  TEAS  READY  FOR  OVEN.  —  Page  324. 


; 


MARSHMALLOW  TEAS.  —  Page  324. 


GINGERBREADS,  COOKIES,  AND  WAFERS     321 

with  soda,  salt  and  ginger,  and  flour,  to  make  a  soft 
dough.  Put  in  ice  box  or  cold  place  to  chill.  Pat 
and  roll  to  one-half  inch  in  thickness  (using  one-half 
the  mixture  at  a  time)  and  shape  with  a  round  cut- 
ter, first  dipped  in  flour.  Put  on  a  buttered  sheet 
and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Nut  Oatmeal  Cookies 

%  cup  butter  ^  cup  chopped  nut  meats 

Y±  cup  lard  1 1A  cups  flour 

1  cup  sugar  ^  teaspoon  salt 

1  egg  ^  teaspoon  soda 

5  tablespoons  milk  %  teaspoon  cinnamon 

1  Y±  cups  rolled  oats  H  teaspoon  clove 

1/2  cup  raisins  Y^.  teaspoon  allspice 

Cream  butter  and  lard  together,  and  add  grad- 
ually, while  beating  constantly,  sugar;  then  add  egg, 
well  beaten,  milk,  rolled  oats,  raisins  (seeded  and 
cut  in  pieces)  and  nut  meats,  chopped.  Mix  and  sift 
flour  with  remaining  ingredients  and  add  to  first 
mixture.  Drop  from  tip  of  spoon  on  a  buttered  sheet, 
one  inch  apart,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  fifteen 
minutes. 

Peanut  Bars 

1  quart  roasted  Spanish  peanuts          1  cup  brown  sugar 
White  1  egg  %  teaspoon  salt 

^  teaspoon  vanilla 

Shell,  remove  skins  and  finely  chop  peanuts.  Beat 
white  of  egg  until  stiff  and  add  gradually,  while 
beating  constantly,  sugar,  salt  and  vanilla.  Fold  in 


322  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

peanuts,  spread  mixture  in  a  buttered  tin  square 
shallow  pan  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven.  Cut  in  bars, 
using  a  sharp  knife,  and  remove  from  pan. 

Peanut  Wafers 

%  cup  butter  ^  teaspoon  soda 

1^2  cups  light  brown  sugar  3  tablespoons  milk 
1  egg  1  quart  peanuts 

^2  teaspoon  salt  ."flour 

Cream  butter  and  add  sugar  gradually,  while 
beating  constantly;  then  add  egg,  well  beaten, 
salt,  and  soda  dissolved  in  milk.  Shell,  skin  and 
chop  peanuts.  Add  one-half  to  mixture  and  flour 
to  roll  the  quantity  required,  being  about  three 
cups.  Put  a  portion  of  the  mixture  on  a  well-greased 
and  slightly  floured  tin  sheet  or  inverted  dripping 
pan  and  pat  and  roll  to  one-eighth  inch  in  thickness, 
then  sprinkle  with  peanuts  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven. 
Cut  in  strips  one  inch  by  three  inches.  Repeat 
until  all  the  mixture  is  used. 

^Swedish  Nut  Wafers 

%  cup  shortening  2  tablespoons  milk 

%  cup  sugar  .  }/%  teaspoon  salt 

1  egg  1  teaspoon  baking  powder 

\Y%  cups  flour  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

%  cup  chopped  nut  meats 

Cream  the  shortening  (using  butter  and  lard 
in  equal  proportions)  and  add  sugar  gradually,  while 
beating  constantly;  then  add  egg,  well  beaten,  milk, 
flour,  mixed  and  sifted,  with  baking  powder  and 


GINGERBREADS,  COOKIES,  AND  WAFERS     323 

salt  and  vanilla.  Spread  evenly  on  the  bottom  of  a 
buttered  inverted  dripping  pan,  using  a  case  knife, 
sprinkle  with  nut  meats  and  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  twelve  minutes.  Cut  in  strips  three-fourths 
inch  wide  by  four  and  one-half  inches  long  and  shape 
over  a  rolling  pin.  If  strips  become  brittle  before 
the  shaping  is  accomplished,  return  to  oven  to  re- 
heat, when  they  are  again  made  pliable. 

Peanut  Macaroons 

White  1  egg  5  tablespoons  finely  chopped 

M  cup  fine  granulated  peanuts 

sugar  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Beat  white  of  egg  until  stiff  and  add  gradually, 
while  beating  constantly,  sugar;  then  add  peanuts 
and  vanilla.  Drop  from  tip  of  spoon  on  buttered 
sheet  one  and  one-half  inches  apart.  Garnish  each 
with  one-half  peanut  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven  from 
twelve  to  fifteen  minutes. 

Sultana  Sticks 

1  cup  sugar  ^  cup  four 

J4  cup  melted  butter  y±  teaspoon  salt 

1  egg,  unbeaten  ^  teaspoon  vanilla 

2  squares  melted  chocolate  %  cup  Sultana  raisins 

34  cup  chopped  English  walnut  meats 

Mix  ingredients  in  order  given.  Line  a  seven-inch 
square  pan  with  paraffine  paper,  put  in  mixture, 
spread  evenly  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven.  Remove 
from  pan,  take  off  paper  and  cut  at  once  in  bars 
three  and  one-half  by  one  and  three-quarters  inches. 


324  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

Chocolate  Nut  Bars 

Whites  6  eggs  3  ounces  unsweetened 

14  ounces  powdered  sugar  chocolate 

^  pound  Jordan  almonds 

Beat  egg  whites  until  stiff  and  add  gradually,  while 
beating  constantly,  sugar;  then  carefully  cut  and  fold 
in  chocolate  which  has  been  melted  and  slightly 
cooled  and  two-thirds  of  the  nut  meats,  blanched 
and  chopped.  Spread  mixture  one-fourth  inch  thick 
in  two  buttered  dripping  pans,  sprinkle  with  re- 
maining nuts  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven  forty  minutes. 
While  warm  cut  in  finger-shaped  pieces,  using  a 
sharp  knife.  For  serving  arrange  on  a  plate  covered 
with  a  lace  paper  doily. 

Scotch  Five  o'clock  Teas 

%  pound  butter  6  ounces  sugar 

1  pound  flour 

Cream  butter  and  add  gradually,  while  beating 
constantly,  sugar;  then  work  in  the  flour,  using  the 
hands.  Press  into  a  buttered  dripping  pan  to  one- 
half  inch  in  thickness,  prick  with  a  fork,  at  even, 
frequent  intervals  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
thirty-five  minutes.  Cool  slightly,  cut  in  squares  or 
oblongs  and  remove  from  pan. 

x^Marshmallow  Teas 

Arrange  marshmallows  on  thin  unsweetened  round 
wafer  crackers,  allowing  one  marshmallow  to  each 


CHOCOLATE  WALNUT  WAFERS.  —  Page  325. 


PEANUT  WAFERS.  —  Page  322. 


THE  ROLLING  OF  SWEDISH  NUT  WAFERS.  —  Page  322. 


SWEDISH  NUT  WAFERS.  —  Page  322. 


GINGERBREADS,  COOKIES,  AND  WAFERS     325 

cracker.  Make  a  deep  impression  in  the  centre  of 
each  marshmallow  and  in  each  cavity  drop  one-fourth 
teaspoon  butter.  Arrange  on  a  tin  sheet  and  bake 
until  marshmallows  spread  and  nearly  cover  crackers. 
Insert  one-half  a  candied  cherry  in  each  cavity  and 
arrange  on  a  plate  covered  with  a  doily. 

^  Chinese  Tea  Cakes 

%  cup  shortening  1  tablespoon  cold  water 

1  cup  brown  sugar  ^  teaspoon  vanilla 

Y%  teaspoon  soda  1  cup  flour 

Work  shortening  until  creamy,  using  equal  parts 
of  butter  and  lard.  Add  sugar  gradually,  while 
beating  constantly;  then  add  soda  dissolved  in  water, 
vanilla  and  flour.  Make  into  small  balls,  place  on  a, 
buttered  sheet  one  and  one-half  inches  apart  and 
bake  in  a  hot  oven.  This  receipt  makes  twenty-four 
cakes. 

Chocolate  Walnut  Wafers 

Yi  cup  butter  1  cup  chopped  walnut  meats 

1  cup  sugar  ^  teaspoon  salt 

2  eggs  %  teaspoon  vanilla 
2  squares  unsweetened  %  cup  flour 

chocolate 

Cream  butter  and  add  gradually,  while  beating 
constantly,  sugar;  then  add  eggs,  well  beaten,  choco- 
late (melted),  nut  meats,  salt,  vanilla  and  flour. 
Drop  from  tip  of  spoon  on  a  buttered  sheet,  one 
inch  apart,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 


326  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

Orange  Circles 

3  tablespoons  butter  Grated  rind  1  orange 

%j  cup  sugar  Few  grains  salt 

Juice  1  orange  1%  cups  flour 

Put  butter  and  grated  rind  in  a  bowl  and  work 
until  creamy,  using  a  wooden  spoon.  Add  sugar 
gradually,  continuing  the  beating;  then  add  salt  and 
orange  juice  and  flour,  a  little  at  a  time.  Toss  on  a 
floured  board,  pat  and  roll  to  one-eighth  inch  in 
thickness.  Shape  with  a  circular  cutter,  first  dipped 
in  flour,  put  on  a  sheet  covered  with  a  buttered  paper 
and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

\ 
Caraway  Seed  Cookies 

1  cup  butter  2  tablespoons  milk 

1  cup  sugar  24  teaspoon  salt 

2  eggs  2  cups  bread  flour 

%  teaspoon  soda  1  tablespoon  carraway  seeds 

Cream  butter,  using  the  hands,  and  add  gradually, 
while  beating  constantly,  sugar.  Add  one  egg  and 
beat,  still  using  the  hands;  then  add  the  other  egg 
and  continue  the  beating.  Add  soda,  dissolved  in 
milk,  and  remaining  ingredients.  Toss  on  a  floured 
cloth  and  pat  and  roll  to  one-fourth  inch  in  thick- 
ness. Shape  with  a  small  round  cutter,  first  dipped 
in  flour.  Arrange  on  a  buttered  sheet  and  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven. 

Chocolate  Fate  a  Choux  Rings 

Force  cream  cake  mixture  through  a  pastry  bag 
and  tube  in  ring  shapes,  three  and  one-half  inches  in 


GINGERBREADS,  COOKIES,  AND  WAFERS    327 

diameter,  on  a  buttered  sheet  and  bake  thirty  min- 
utes in  a  moderate  oven.  Cool,  split  and  fill  with 
whipped  cream,  sweetened  and  flavored  with  vanilla. 
Cover  with  Berkshire  Chocolate  Frosting  (see  p. 
348)  and  sprinkle  with  Jordan  almonds,  blanched  and 

shredded. 

French  Meringues 

2  cups  sugar  Whites  5  eggs 

1  cup  water  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Put  sugar  and  water  in  saucepan,  bring  to  the 
boiling  point  and  let  boil  until  a  firm  ball  may  be 
formed  when  mixture  is  tried  in  cold  water.  Beat 
whites  of  eggs  until  stiff  and  add  gradually,  while 
beating  constantly,  the  hot  syrup.  Set  saucepan 
containing  mixture  in  larger  saucepan  containing 
ice  water,  add  flavoring  and  stir  five  minutes.  Cover 
and  let  stand  fifteen  minutes.  Shape  with  a  spoon 
or  pastry  bag  and  tube  on  a  buttered  sheet,  dredged 
with  cornstarch.  Bake  thirty  minutes  in  a  slow  oven. 

Cinkites 

Whites  3  eggs  Grated  rind  ^  lemon 

y%  pound  powdered  sugar  1  ^  teaspoons  cinnamon 

}/2  pound  chopped  unblanched  Jordan  almonds 

Beat  egg  whites  to  a  stiff  froth  and  add  sugar, 
gradually,  and  then  remaining  ingredients.  Toss  on 
a  board  dredged  with  flour  and  then  with  powdered 
sugar  and  pat  and  roll  to  one-fourth  inch  in  thick- 
ness. Shape  with  a  small  round  or  fancy  cutter, 
arrange  on  a  slightly  buttered  sheet  and  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven.  Spread  with  Confectioners'  Frosting. 


CHAPTER   XXIX  .j, 

CAKE 

Delia's  Sponge  Cake 

Yolks  2  eggs    ':    ;  J4  teaspoon  lemon  extract 

4  tablespoons  hot  water  Whites  2  eggs 

%  cup  sugar  1  cup  flour    ... 

1J^  teaspoons  baking  powder 

A  DD  yolks  of  eggs  to  hot  water  and  beat  until 
•**•  thick;  then  add  gradually,  while  beating  con- 
stantly, sugar  and  lemon  extract.  Add  whites  of 
eggs,  beaten  until  stiff,  and  fold  in  flour,  mixed  and 
sifted  with  baking  powder.  Turn  'into  a  buttered 
and  floured  narrow  deep  cake  pan  and  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  thirty-five  minutes. 

Potato  Flour  Sponge  Cake 

Yolks  4  eggs  %  cup  potato  flour 

%  cup  sugar  1  teaspoon  baking  powder 

Whites  4  eggs  %  teaspoon  salt 

%  tablespoon  lemon  juice 

Beat  yolks  of  eggs  until  thick  and  lemon-colored 
and  add  sugar  gradually,  while  beating  constantly; 
then  add  whites  of  eggs,  beaten  until  stiff.  Mix 
and  sift  dry  ingredients  and  cut  and  fold  into  mix- 


GRATAN  MOCHA.  —  Page  329. 


VIENNA  CAKE.  —  Page  329. 


BIRTHDAY  CAKE  FOR  A  THREE- YEAR-OLD. — Page  331. 


CAKE  329 

ture.  Add  lemon  juice,  turn  into  a  buttered  and 
floured  cake  pan  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  thirty 
minutes. 

Gratan  Mocha 

Bake  Cream  Sponge  Cake  mixture  (see  The  Boston 
Cooking-School  Cook  Book,  p.  501)  in  two  buttered 
round  deep  layer  cake  tins.  Put  between  layers 
whipped  cream,  sweetened  and  flavored  with  strong 
coffee.  Garnish  top  with  cream,  forced  through  a 
pastry  bag  and  tube,  and  glaced  pineapple,  cherries 
and  angelica,  as  shown  in  illustration. 

Vienna  Cake 

Yolks  4  eggs  Flour 

1  cup  sugar  1 Y^  teaspoons  baking  powder 

3  tablespoons  cold  water  J£  teaspoon  salt 

1*4  tablespoons  corn-  Whites  6  eggs 

starch  1  teaspoon  lemon  extract 

Beat  egg  yolks  until  thick  and  lemon-colored,  and 
add  gradually,  while  beating  constantly,  sugar;  then 
add  water.  Put  cornstarch  in  cup  and  fill  cup  with 
flour.  Mix  and  sift  with  baking  powder  and  salt  and 
add  to  first  mixture;  then  add  egg  whites,  beaten 
until  stiff,  and  lemon  extract.  Turn  into  a  buttered 
and  floured  angel  cake  pan  and  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  forty  minutes.  Remove  from  pan,  cool  and 
cut  crosswise,  so  as  to  make  four  layers  of  equal 
thickness.  Put  between  the  top  and  bottom  layers 
Mocha  Filling,  flavored  with  sweetened  chocolate. 
In  the  centre  and  over  top  and  sides  of  cake,  Mocha 


330  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

Filling,  flavored  with  vanilla.  Sprinkle  entire  frosted 
surface  with  Nut  Brittle. 

Mocha  Filling.  —  Mix  one-third  cup  sugar,  one- 
third  cup  flour  and  one-fourth  teaspoon  salt.  When 
thoroughly  blended,  add  gradually,  while  stirring  con- 
stantly, two  cups  scalded  milk  and  cook  in  double 
boiler  fifteen  minutes,  stirring  constantly  until  mix- 
ture thickens  and  afterwards  occasionally.  Wash 
one  cup  butter,  add  to  cooked  mixture  and  let  stand 
until  cold;  then  add  one  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Chocolate  Mocha  Filling.  —  To  one-third  Mocha 
Filling  add  one  ounce  melted  sweet  chocolate. 

Nut  Brittle.  —  Blanch  and  chop  Jordan  almonds; 
there  should  be  one-third  cup.  Put  in  a  small  omelet 
pan  with  one-third  cup  sugar,  place  on  range  and 
stir  constantly  until  sugar  is  well  caramelized. 
Turn  into  a  slightly  buttered  pan,  cool  and  roll  until 
quite  fine. 

Silver  Sponge  Cakes 

Whites  5  eggs  ^  teaspoon  cream-of-tartar 

%  cup  sugar  %  cup  bread  flour 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Beat  whites  of  eggs  until  stiff  and  dry  and  add 
gradually,  while  beating  constantly,  sugar,  mixed 
and  sifted  with  cream-of-tartar.  Sift  flour  into  the 
mixture,  add  vanilla  and  cut  and  fold  until  blended. 
Fill  buttered  individual  tins  two-thirds  full  of  mix- 
ture, sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar  and  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven. 


CAKE  331 

Mock  Angel  Cake 

1  cup  sugar  1A  teaspoon  salt 

1  y$  cups  flour  %  cup  scalded  milk 

3  teaspoons  baking  powder  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Whites  2  eggs 

Mix  and  sift  first  four  ingredients  four  times.  Pour 
on  gradually  the  scalded  milk.  Fold  in  whites  of 
eggs,  beaten  until  stiff,  and  add  vanilla.  Turn  into 
an  unbuttered  angel  cake  pan  and  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  forty-five  minutes.  This  is  better  for  being 
kept  twenty-four  hours. 

White  Mountain  Angel  Cake 

1 Yz  cups  egg  whites  1  cup  bread  flour 

1 1/2  cups  sugar  J4  teaspoon  salt 

1  teaspoon  cream-of-tartar  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Beat  egg  whites  until  stiff,  using  large  egg  beater. 
Remove  egg  beater  and  add  sugar  mixed  with  cream- 
of-tartar,  gradually,  folding  in  with  wooden  cake 
spoon.  Cut  and  fold  in  flour,  mixed  with  salt,  and 
add  flavoring.  Turn  into  an  unbuttered  angel  cake 
pan,  cover  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  twenty  min- 
utes. Remove  cover  and  bake  from  twenty  to 
twenty-five  minutes.  Invert  pan  on  wire  cake  cooler 
and  let  stand,  when  cake  should,  by  its  own  weight, 
drop  from  pan. 

Birthday  Cake 
(For  three-year-old) 

Make  a  White  Mountain  Angel  Cake.  Cover  with 
Confectioners'  Frosting  (see  The  Boston  Cooking- 


332  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

School  Cook  Book,  p.  527)  and  decorate  with  citron 
cut  in  thin  slices  and  then  in  shapes,  roses  made 
from  candied  rose  leaves,  daisies  made  from  small 
candies,  foliage  made  from  citron,  dragees  and  three 
small  candles  placed  in  rose  cups  (which  may  be 
bought  of  first-class  city  grocers). 

Fruit  Cake 
(Without  butter  or  eggs) 

1  cup  sugar  4  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Y<L  cup  molasses  %  teaspoon  salt 

%  cup  milk  1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

}4  cup  coffee  infusion  Allspice  \ 

1^2  cups  entire  wheat  Clove  I  M  teaspoon 

flour  Mace  each 

%  cup  white  flour  Grated  nutmeg      J 
1  pound  raisins  seeded  and  cut  in  pieces 

Mix  sugar,  molasses,  milk  and  coffee.  Mix  and 
sif£  dry  ingredients,  reserving  one-fourth  cup  white 
flour..  Combine  mixtures  and  add  raisins,  dredged 
with  remaining  flour.  Turn  into  a  buttered  and 
floured  bread  pan  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  fifty 
minutes. 

Grant  Cake 

M  cup  butter  1 M  cups  raisins 

1  cup  sugar  13^  teaspoons  soda 

1  egg  /4  teaspoon  allspice 

1  cup  sour  milk  %  teaspoon  cloves 

2%  cups  flour  1^  teaspoon  cinnamon 

Yz  teaspoon  salt 

Cream  butter  and  add  sugar  gradually,  while  beat- 
ing constantly,  egg,  well  beaten,  and  sour  milk.  Mix 


RAISED  LOAF  CAKE.  —  Vage  333. 


DEVIL'S  FOOD  CAKE.  —  Page  335. 


LADY  BALTIMORE  CAKE. —  Page  340. 


LORD  BALTIMORE  CAKE. — Page  341. 


CAKE  333 

and  sift  two  and  one-half  cups  flour  with  soda,  spices 
and  salt  and  add  to  first  mixture;  then  add  raisins, 
seeded,  cut  in  pieces  and  dredged  with  remaining 
flour.  Turn  into  a  buttered  oblong  cake  pan  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven  fifty  minutes. 

Raised  Loaf  Cake 

1  cup  butter  1  teaspoon  cloves 

2  cups  brown  sugar  2  teaspoons  soda 
2  eggs  1  teaspoon  salt 

2  cups  bread  sponge  2  cups  raisins 

2  teaspoons  cinnamon  1  cup  flour 

Cream  butter  and  add  gradually,  while  beating 
constantly,  sugar;  then  add  eggs,  well  beaten,  bread 
sponge,  spices,  soda  and  salt  (mixed  and  sifted)  and 
raisins,  seeded  and  cut  in  quarters  and  mixed  with 
flour.  Turn  into  two  buttered  and  floured  oblong 
pans,  cover  and  let  rise  three  hours  and  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  one  hour.  Remove  from  pan  and 
cover  top  with  Portsmouth  Frosting  (see  p.  347). 

Bread  Sponge.  —  Mix  one  tablespoon,  each,  butter, 
sugar  and  salt;  add  one  yeast  cake,  dissolved  in  one 
cup  lukewarm  water  and  two  and  one-half  cups 
flour.  Cover  and  let  rise  until  mixture  is  light. 

Potato  Flour  Cake 

2  eggs  1  teaspoon  baking  powder 

1  tablespoon  cold  water  Y±  teaspoon  salt 

%  cup  sugar  %  teaspoon  vanilla 

%  cup  potato  flour  1  tablespoon  melted  butter 

Add  water  to  eggs  and  beat  until  light.  Then  add 
sugar,  gradually,  while  beating  constantly.  Mix  and 


334  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

sift  dry  ingredients,  combine  mixtures  and  add  va- 
nilla and  butter.  Turn  into  a  buttered  and  floured 
cake  pan  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  twenty-five 
minutes. 

Prize  Cake 

Yolks  4  eggs  2  cups  flour 

Whites  2  eggs  2^£  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1  cup  sugar  ^  cup  milk 

H  cup  melted  butter 

Put  egg  yolks  and  whites  into  a  bowl  and  beat 
until  thick,  using  a  Dover  egg  beater;  then  add  sugar 
gradually,  while  beating  constantly.  Mix  and  sift 
flour  and  baking  powder  and  add  alternately  with 
milk  to  first  mixture;  then  add  one-third  cup  melted 
butter.  Turn  into  a  buttered  and  floured  shallow 
cake  pan  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  thirty-five 
minutes. 

This  mixture  is  well  adapted  for  reception  cakes. 
It  may  be  cut  into  small  squares,  oblongs,  triangles, 
or  any  desired  shapes,  dipped  in  Oscar's  Frosting 
and  decorated  with  candied  fruits,  candies  or  orna- 
mental frosting. 

Christmas  Cakes 

Bake  Prize  Cake  mixture  in  buttered  and  floured 
goldenrod  pans.  Remove  from  pans,  cool,  trim  off 
ends  and  cut  each  cake  in  quarters,  crosswise. 
Spread  top  of  each  with  Confectioners'  Frosting  (see 
The  Boston  Cooking-School  Cook  Book,  p.  527)  and 
decorate  with  small  leaves,  made  from  Ornamental 


CAKE  335 

Frosting  II  (see  The  Boston  Cooking-School  Cook 
Book,  p.  532),  colored  green  and  forced  through  a  bag 
and  tube,  and  small  red  candies  to  represent  holly. 

Priscilla  Cake 

Y%  cup  butter  2^  cups  flour 

ll/2  cups  sugar  2^  teaspoons  baking  powder 

5  eggs  }/2  cup  milk 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Cream  butter  and  add  gradually,  while  beating 
constantly,  sugar;  then  add  eggs  well  beaten.  Mix 
and  sift  flour  and  baking  powder  and  add  alternately 
with  milk  to  first  mixture.  Beat  vigorously  two 
minutes  and  add  flavoring.  Turn  into  a  buttered 
and  floured  cake  pan  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
forty-five  minutes. 

Devils'  Food  Cake 

%  cup  butter  2}^  cups  flour 

1  cup  sugar  3  teaspoons  baking  powder 

2  squares  chocolate  ^  teaspoon  salt 

2  eggs  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

^  cup  milk 

Cream  butter  and  add  sugar  gradually,  while  beat- 
ing constantly;  then  add  eggs,  well  beaten,  milk, 
flour,  mixed  and  sifted  with  baking  powder,  and  salt 
and  vanilla.  Turn  into  a  buttered  and  floured  cake 
pan  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  forty-five  minutes. 
Cover  with  Ice  Cream  Frosting  and  spread  Ice  Cream 
Frosting  with  a  thin  layer  of  melted  unsweetened 
chocolate,  using  the  back  of  a  spoon. 


336  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

Fudge  Cake 

1  cup  butter  2  cups  flour 

-1  cup  sugar  2^  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Yolks  3  eggs  Whites  3  eggs 

K  cup  milk  2  ounces  unsweetened  chocolate 

Yi  teaspoon  vanilla 

Cream  butter  and  add  sugar  gradually,  while  beat- 
ing constantly;  then  add  yolks  of  eggs,  well  beaten. 
Mix  and  sift  baking  powder  and  flour  and  add  alter- 
nately with  milk  to  first  mixture.  Add  whites  of  eggs, 
beaten  until  stiff,  chocolate,  melted  over  hot  water, 
and  vanilla.  Turn  into  two  buttered  and  floured 
seven-inch  square  pans  and  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven.  Put  between  and  on  top  Fudge  Frosting  (see 
p.  350). 

Caramel  Potato  Cake 

Y%  cup  butter  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1  cup  sugar  ^  teaspoon  cinnamon 

2  eggs  H  teaspoon  clove 
YL  cup  milk  Yz  teaspoon  nutmeg 

YL  cup  hot  riced  potatoes        Yz  cup  grated  chocolate 
1  cup  flour  YL  cup  chopped  nut  meats 

Cream  butter  and  add  gradually,  while  beating 
constantly,  sugar;  then  add  eggs,  well  beaten,  milk 
and  potatoes.  Beat  thoroughly  and  add  flour,  mixed 
and  sifted  with  baking  powder,  and  spices,  chocolate 
and  nut  meats.  Turn  into  a  buttered  and  floured 
cake  pan  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  fifty-five  min- 
utes. Remove  from  pan  and  cover  with  Fudge 
Frosting  (see  p.  350). 


CAKE  337 

Chocolate  Walnut  Loaf  Cake 

Ys  cup  butter  %  cup  brown  sugar 

1  cup  brown  sugar  1  cup  milk 
Yolks  2  eggs                             Yolk  1  egg 

3/£  cup  milk  1 H  cups  chopped  walnut 

2  cups  bread  flour  meats 

1  teaspoon  soda  1  cup  citron,  cut  in  small 

Whites  3  eggs  pieces 

4  squares  chocolate  2  teaspoons  vanilla 

Cream  butter  and  add  gradually,  while  beating 
constantly,  one  cup  sugar;  then  add  yolks  two  eggs, 
well  beaten,  one-half  cup  milk,  flour,  mixed  and  sifted 
with  soda,  and  whites  three  eggs,  beaten  until  stiff. 
Melt  chocolate  and  add  two-thirds  cup  sugar,  one 
cup  milk  and  yolk  one  egg,  slightly  beaten.  Cook  in 
double  boiler,  stirring  constantly  until  mixture  is 
smooth.  Cool  and  add  to  first  mixture;  then  add 
nut  meats,  citron  and  vanilla.  Turn  into  two  but- 
tered and  floured  seven-inch  square  pans  and  bake 
in  a  moderate  oven  thirty-five  minutes.  Remove 
from  pans  and  cover  with  white  or  chocolate  frosting. 

Gold  Cake 

H  cup  butter  (scant)  2  cups  flour 

1  cup  sugar  3  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Yolks  4  eggs  ^  cup  milk 

Cream  butter  and  add  gradually,  while  beating 
constantly,  sugar;  then  add  egg  yolks,  beaten  until 
thick  and  lemon-colored.  Mix  and  sift  flour  and 
baking  powder  and  add  alternately  with  milk  to> 
first  mixture.  Bake  in  a  buttered  shallow  pan  or 
layer  cake  tins,  in  a  moderate  oven. 


338  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

Mrs.  Raymond's  Gold  Cake 

%  cup  butter  1  %  cups  flour 

1  cup  sugar  3%  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Yolks  5  eggs  34  teaspoon  salt 

1  egg  ^  cup  milk 

Cream  butter  and  add  sugar  gradually,  while  beat- 
ing constantly;  then  add  egg  yolks  and  egg  well 
beaten.  Mix  and  sift  dry  ingredients  and  add  alter- 
nately with  milk  to  first  mixture.  Turn  into  a  but- 
tered and  floured  cake  tin  and  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  forty-five  minutes.  Remove  from  pan  and 
cover  with  Cocoanut  Coffee  Frosting. 

^  Princeton  Orange  Cake 

H  cup  butter  Grated  rind  1  orange 

1^2  cups  sugar  13^  cups  flour 

Yolks  4  eggs  }/£  cup  cornstarch 

^2  CUP  orange  juice  4  teaspoons  baking  powder 


*t 

Cream  butter  and  add  sugar  gradually,  while  beat- 
ing constantly.  When  mixture  is  creamy,  add  yolks 
of  eggs,  beaten  until  thick,  orange  juice  and  rind,  and 
flour  and  cornstarch,  mixed  and  sifted  with  baking 
powder;  then  add  whites  of  eggs,  beaten  until  stiff. 
Turn  into  buttered  and  floured  individual  tins  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  Cover  tops  with  Orange 
Frosting. 

Florida  Nut  Cake 

Bake  Princeton  Orange  Cake  mixture  in  a  buttered 
dripping  pan,  sprinkled  generously  with  chopped 
walnut  meats  and  sparingly  with  powdered  sugar. 


CHRISTMAS  CAKES.  —  Page  334. 


ORNAMENTED  WEDDING  CAKE.  —  Page  344. 


CAKE  339 

Remove  from  pan,  cut  in  halves,  crosswise,  and  put 
together  with  Orange  Filling,  spreading  it  on  the 
surface,  where  there  are  no  nuts.  Cut  in  finger- 
shaped  pieces  and  arrange  on  a  plate  covered  with 
a  doily. 

Butterfly  Cake 

Turn  Prize  Cake  mixture  (see  p.  334)  into  two 
buttered  and  floured  seven-inch  square  cake  tins  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven  twenty-five  minutes.  Re- 
move from  pans,  cool  and  cut  each  in  the  shape  of  a- 
butterfly.  Put  layers  together  with  Coffee  Butter 
Frosting.  Spread  sides  with  frosting  and  sprinkle 
with  shredded  cocoanut,  which  has  been  slightly 
browned  in  the  oven.  Pipe  Chocolate  Butter  Frost- 
ing around  edge  of  upper  surface.  Arrange  two 
halves  of  glaced  apricots,  two  halves  of  glaced  cher- 
ries, two  crescent-shaped  pieces  of  angelica  and  two 
strips  of  angelica  as  shown  in  illustration.  Force 
Coffee  Butter  Frosting  through  pastry  bag  and  rose 
tube  around  glaced  fruits.  Make  body  of  Coffee 
Butter  Frosting,  using  lady  finger  tube,  and  over 
body  arrange  a  parallel  row  of  Chocolate  Butter 
Frosting.  Insert  pointed  strips  of  angelica. 

Silver  Cake 

14  cup  butter  2  cups  flour 

1  cup  sugar  3  teaspoons  baking  powder 

%  cup  milk  Whites  4  eggs 

Cream  butter  and  add  sugar  gradually,  while  beat- 
ing constantly;  then  add  milk  alternately  with  flour, 


340  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

mixed  and  sifted  with  baking  powder.  Beat  whites 
of  eggs  until  stiff  and  add  to  mixture.  Turn  into  a 
buttered  and  floured  cake  pan  and  bake  forty-five 
minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 

White  Fruit  Cake 

%  cup  butter  1 %  cups  powdered  sugar 

1%  cups  flour  %  cup  candied  cherries 

%  teaspoon  soda  %  cup  almonds,  blanched 

Yz  tablespoon  lemon  juice  and  shredded 

Whites  6  eggs  ^  cup  citron,  thinly  sliced 

1  teaspoon  almond  extract 

Cream  butter,  and  add  gradually  flour,  mixed 
and  sifted  with  soda;  then  add  lemon  juice.  Beat 
whites  of  eggs  until  stiff,  add  gradually  sugar  and 
combine  mixtures;  then  add  cherries,  cut  in  pieces, 
almonds,  citron  and  extract.  Bake  in  a  buttered 
deep  cake  pan  one  hour. 

Lady  Baltimore  Cake 

1  cup  butter  3^  cups  flour 

2  cups  sugar  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 
1  cup  milk  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Whites  6  eggs 

Cream  butter  and  add  sugar  gradually,  while  beat- 
ing constantly.  Mix  and  sift  baking  powder  and 
flour  and  add  alternately  with  milk  to  first  mixture; 
then  add  flavoring  and  cut  and  fold  in  whites  of  eggs, 
beaten  until  stiff  and  dry.  Turn  into  three  buttered 
and  floured  seven-inch  square  tins  and  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven.  Put  layers  together  with  Fruit  and 


CAKE  341 

Nut  Filling  and  cover  top  and  sides  of  cake  with 
Fruit  and  Nut  Filling,  then  with  Ice  Cream  Frosting. 

Fruit  and  Nut  Filling 

3  cups  sugar  1  cup  raisins  seeded  and  chopped 

1  cup  water  1  cup  chopped  pecan  nut  meats 
Whites  3  eggs                   5  figs,  cut  in  thin  strips 

Put  sugar  and  water  in  a  smooth  graniteware 
saucepan,  bring  to  the  boiling  point  and  let  boil 
until  syrup  will  spin  a  thread  when  dropped  from 
tip  of  spoon.  Pour  gradually,  while  beating  constantly, 
on  whites  of  eggs,  beaten  until  stiff,  and  continue  the 
beating  until  mixture  is  of  right  consistency  to  spread ; 
then  add  remaining  ingredients.  One-half  this  quan- 
tity may  be  made  and  used  between  layers  only. 

Ice  Cream  Frosting 

2  cups  sugar  Whites  2  eggs 

%  cup  water  Y^  teaspoon  vanilla 

Put  sugar  and  water  in  smooth  graniteware  sauce- 
pan; bring  to  the  boiling  point  and  let  boil  until  syrup 
will  spin  a  thread  when  dropped  from  tip  of  spoon. 
Pour  gradually,  while  beating  constantly,  on  whites 
of  eggs,  beaten  until  stiff  (but  not  dry),  and  continue 
the  beating  until  mixture  is  of  right  consistency  to 
spread;  then  add  flavoring. 

Lord  Baltimore  Cake 

H  cup  butter  y%  cup  milk 

1  cup  sugar  1%  cups  flour 

Yolks  8  eggs  4  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1*4  teaspoons  vanilla 


342  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

Cream  butter  and  add  gradually,  while  beating 
constantly,  sugar;  then  add  yolks  of  eggs,  beaten 
until  thick  and  lemon-colored,  milk,  flour,  mixed  and 
sifted  with  baking  powder,  and  vanilla.  Turn  into 
three  buttered  and  floured  seven-inch  square  tins 
and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  Put  layers  together 
with  Lord  Baltimore  Filling  and  cover  top  and  side 
of  cake  with  Ice  Cream  Frosting;  then  garnish  with 
halves  of  candied  cherries  and  diamond-shaped  pieces 
of  angelica. 

Lord  Baltimore  Filling. — Make  an  Ice  Cream  Frost- 
ing (see  p.  341)  of  one  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  one- 
half  cup  water  and  whites  two  eggs.  When  of  right 
consistency  to  spread,  add  one-half  cup  rolled  dry 
macaroons,  one-fourth  cup,  each,  chopped  pecan  nut 
meats  and  blanched  Jordan  almonds,  twelve  candied 
cherries,  cut  in  quarters,  two  teaspoons  lemon  juice, 
three  teaspoons  Sherry  wine  and  one-fourth  teaspoon 
orange  extract. 

Grandmother's  Pound  Cake 

1  cup  butter  5  eggs 

\Yz  cups  sugar  2  cups  flour 

Work  butter  until  creamy,  using  the  hand,  and 
add  sugar,  gradually,  while  beating  constantly;  then 
add  eggs  one  at  a  time,  beating  vigorously  between 
the  addition  of  each.  When  the  mixture  is  of  a 
creamy  consistency,  fold  in  the  flour  and  turn  into  a 
buttered  and  floured  cake  pan.  Bake  one  hour  in  a 
slow  oven. 


CAKE  343 

Anniversary  Cake 

Bake  Grandma's  Pound  Cake  mixture  in  a  buttered 
and  floured  round  pan  about  seven  inches  in  diameter. 
Remove  from  pan,  cover  with  Confectioners'  Frost- 
ing and  decorate  as  shown  in  illustration  or  as  one's 
fancy  dictates. 

Foliage  is  best  made  of  citron  thinly  sliced.  The 
dark-green  outside  makes  attractive  leaves,  though 
all  may  be  used  to  advantage.  The  little  candies  for 
the  flowers  may  sometimes  be  procured  at  small 
shops,  though  the  greatest  variety  can  be  bought  of 
a  dealer  in  confectioners'  supplies;  also  the  little 
silver-like  dragees,  which  are  so  ornamental.  The 
flowers  are  made  on  a  basis  of  angelica,  cut  with  a 
pen-knife  into  thin  shavings,  worked  with  the  hands 
into  small  balls,  then  flattened  into  lozenge  shapes, 
which  make  a  sticky  foundation  on  which  the  candies 
may  be  placed;  candied  rose  leaves  and  violets 
may  also  be  used.  The  cake  in  the  illustration  is 
decorated  with  daisies  and  chrysanthemums,  golden- 
rod  and  forget-me-nots. 

The  little  disks  were  made  of  angelica,  shaped  in 
half-spheres,  dipped  in  white  of  egg,  and  then  in  the 
dragees,  and  the  conventional  decorations  were  cut 
from  thin  slices  of  citron. 

Birthday  Cake 

Bake  Sponge,  Angel  or  Moonshine  cake  mixture 
in  an  angel  cake  pan.  Remove  from  pan,  cover 


344  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

with  Confectioners'  Frosting  and  decorate  as  shown 
in  illustration,  following  general  directions  given 
under  Anniversary  Cake. 

Ornamented  Wedding  Cake 

Follow  recipe  for  Wedding  Cake  I  or  II  (see  The 
Boston  Cooking-School  Cook  Book,  p.  522).  Line 
a  round  tin  pan  twelve  inches  in  diameter  with 
buttered  paper,  turn  in  mixture,  cover  with  buttered 
heavy  brown  paper  (buttered  side  up)  and  fasten 
securely  with  a  string.  Steam  and  bake.  Take 
from  pan,  remove  paper,  and  let  stand  until  cold. 
Wrap  in  cheese-cloth,  wrung  out  of  brandy,  and 
store  in  a  cool  dry  place  from  one  to  three  months, 
occasionally  sprinkling  with  brandy.  Work  one- 
third  pound  almond  paste  with  white  of  one  egg 
until  smooth  and  add  one-fourth  cup  fine  granulated 
sugar.  Spread  bottom  and  sides  of  cake  with  mix- 
ture, put  in  oven  and  bake  until  paste  is  browned. 
This  prevents  frosting  from  becoming  discolored. 
Cool  and  spread  with  a  layer  of  Ornamental  Frost- 
ing (see  p.  353)  and  let  stand  until  frosting  is  set. 

Ornament  by  forcing  frosting  through  a  pastry 
bag  and  tubes  or  cones  made  of  paper  which  comes 
for  this  purpose  and  dragees.  The  doves  shown  in 
illustration  are  shaped  on  paper,  dried  and  then 
placed  on  cake,  being  held  in  place  by  a  small  quan- 
tity of  soft  frosting. 


CHAPTER  XXX 

CAKE  FILLINGS   AND   FROSTINGS 

White  Mountain  Cream  Filling 

1/%  cup  sugar  1  Y^  cups  scalded  milk 

^i  cup  flour  Yolks  2  eggs 

Y%  teaspoon  salt  Yz  cup  heavy  cream 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 

IV/TIX  sugar,  flour  and  salt  and  when  thoroughly 
-*•*•*•  blended,  pour  on  scalded  milk.  Cook  in  double 
boiler  fifteen  minutes,  stirring  constantly  until  mix- 
ture thickens  and  afterwards  occasionally.  Add 
egg  yolks,  slightly  beaten,  and  cook  for  two  minutes. 
Cool,  add  cream,  beaten  until  stiff,  and  flavoring. 

Caramel  Filling 

1^  cups  scalded  milk  ^  cup  flour 

Caramel  syrup  1  egg  yolk 

Yz  cup  sugar  Yz  teaspoon  vanilla 

Put  one-half  cup  sugar  in  a  graniteware  saucepan 
or  omelet  pan,  place  over  hot  part  of  range  and  stir 
constantly  until  melted  and  of  the  color  of  maple 
syrup.  Add  one-half  of  the  caramel  syrup  to  scalded 
milk  and  when  dissolved,  pour  on  gradually  to  one- 
half  cup  sugar  thoroughly  mixed  with  flour.  Cook 
twenty  minutes,  stirring  constantly  until  mixture 


346  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

thickens  and  afterwards  occasionally.     Add  beaten 
egg  yolk  and  vanilla. 

Praline  Cream 

To  one  cup  Cream  Filling  (see  The  Boston  Cook- 
ing-School Cook  Book,  p.  524)  add  two-thirds  cup 
praline  powder.  For  the  powder  put  one-half  cup 
sugar  in  a  small  omelet  pan  and  stir  constantly  until 
reduced  to  a  syrup  and  slightly  caramelized;  then 
add  two-thirds  cup  chopped  nut  meats  (preferably 
blanched  Jordan  almonds  or  pecans)  and  a  few  grains 
salt.  Turn  into  a  slightly  buttered  pan,  cool,  pound 
and  pass  through  a  strainer. 

Frangipan  Cream 

Mix  two-thirds  cup  powdered  sugar  and  one-third 
cup  flour.  When  thoroughly  blended,  add  yolks 
of  three  eggs  and  one  whole  egg,  slightly  beaten,  and 
one-fourth  teaspoon  salt.  Add  gradually  one  cup 
scalded  milk  and  cook  over  hot  water  fifteen  min- 
utes, stirring  constantly  until  mixture  thickens  and 
afterwards  occasionally.  Add  two  tablespoons  but- 
ter, two  tablespoons  macaroons  (dried  and  rolled), 
two-thirds  teaspoon  vanilla  and  one-third  teaspoon 
extract  of  lemon. 

Fruit  Cream  Filling 

%  cup  heavy  cream  %  cup  figs 

Yz  cup  powdeied  sugar  H  cup  prunes 

Few  grains  salt  2  teaspoons  lemon  juice 

3  tablespoons  chopped  walnut  meats 


CAKE  FILLINGS  AND  FROSTINGS  347 

Beat  cream  until  stiff  and  add  sugar,  salt,  nut 
meats,  figs  and  prunes,  cut  in  very  small  pieces,  and 
lemon  juice. 

Orange  Filling 

1  tablespoon  butter  Yolk  1  egg 

3  tablespoons  powdered  sugar         %  cup  orange  juice 

2  tablespoons  flour  Grated  rind  l/£  orange 
^  cup  sugar  1  teaspoon  lemon  juice 

Wash  butter  and  work  until  creamy;  then  add 
sugar  gradually.  Mix  flour,  sugar  and  egg  yolk, 
slightly  beaten.  Add  orange  juice  and  cook  over  hot 
water,  stirring  constantly,  until  mixture  thickens. 
Combine  mixtures  and  add  grated  rind  and  lemon 
juice.  If  the  orange  juice  is  sour,  it  is  not  necessary 
to  add  the  lemon  juice. 

Syracuse  Filling 

1  cup  heavy  cream  1  tablespoon  hot  water 

}/<L  cup  sugar  6  marshmallows 

^  teaspoon  granulated  9  candied  cherries 

gelatine  4  macaroons 

1  tablespoon  cold  water  }/%  teaspoon  vanilla 

Beat  cream  until  stiff  and  add  sugar  gradually; 
then  add  gelatine,  soaked  in  cold  water  two  minutes 
and  dissolved  in  boiling  water.  Add  marshmallows 
and  cherries,  cut  in  small  pieces,  macaroons,  dried 
and  rolled,  and  vanilla. 

Portsmouth  Frosting 

2  tablespoons  cream  2  teaspoons  melted  butter 
Confectioners'  sugar  ^  teaspoon  vanilla 


348  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

To  cream  add  sugar  until  of  right  consistency  to 
spread;  then  add  butter  and  vanilla. 

Coffee  Confectioners'  Frosting 

2  tablespoons  hot  coffee  1  teaspoon  butter 

infusion  ^  teaspoon  vanilla 

Confectioners'  sugar 

Melt  butter  in  coffee  and  add  vanilla  and  confec- 
tioners7 sugar  until  mixture  is  of  the  right  consistency 
to  spread.  Vanilla  may  be  omitted. 

Berkshire  Chocolate  Frosting 

2  squares  chocolate  3  tablespoons  boiling  water 

1  teaspoon  butter  Confectioners'  sugar 

^  teaspoon  vanilla 

Melt  chocolate  in  small  saucepan  placed  over  hot 
water.  Add  butter  and  boiling  water  and  stir  in 
sugar,  gradually,  until  mixture  is  of  right  consistency 
to  spread;  then  add  flavoring. 

Mocha  Frosting 

^  cup  butter  1  tablespoon  strong,  boiled 

1  cup  Confectioners'  sugar  or  filtered  coffee 

%  cup  Jordan  almonds 

Wash  butter  and  pat  until  no  water  flies.  Work 
until  creamy,  and  add  sugar  gradually,  while  beating 
constantly.  As  mixture  thickens,  add  coffee,  a  few 
drops  at  a  time,  keeping  the  mixture  throughout  the 
entire  beating  of  a  creamy  consistency.  Spread  on 


CAKE  FILLINGS  AND  FROSTINGS  349 

cake  and  sprinkle  with  almonds,  blanched,  shredded 
and  baked  in  a  slow  oven  until  delicately  browned. 

Cocoa  Frosting 

Make  same  as  Mocha  Frosting,  using  one  and  one- 
half  tablespoons  breakfast  cocoa  in  place  of  coffee.  - 

Coffee  Butter  Frosting 

3^  cup  washed  or  1%  cups  confectioners'  sugar 

unsalted  butter  1  ^  tablespoons  strong  coffee 

infusion 

Work  butter  until  creamy  and  add  sugar  gradu- 
ally, while  stirring  constantly,  adding  during  the 
process  the  coffee,  a  few  drops  at  a  time. 

Chocolate  Butter  Frosting 

2  tablespoons  washed  or      1  teaspoon  breakfast  cocoa 
unsalted  butter  ^  tablespoon  boiling  water 

Confectioners'  sugar  %  teaspoon  vanilla 

Work  butter  until  creamy  and  add  sugar  gradu- 
ally, while  beating  constantly,  until  mixture  is  of 
the  right  consistency  to  spread,  or  force  through  a 
pastry  bag  and  tube;  then  add  cocoa,  mixed  with 
water  and  vanilla. 

Buttermilk  Frosting 

Put  three-fourths  cup  buttermilk  in  a  graniteware 
saucepan,  add  three-fourths  cup  sugar,  bring  to  the 
boiling  point  and  let  boil  until  mixture  when  tried 


350  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

in  cold  water  forms  a  soft  ball.    Remove  from  range 
and  beat  until  of  right  consistency  to  spread. 

Fudge  Frosting 

2  tablespoons  butter  34  cup  milk 

1  cup  sugar  1  square  unsweetened  chocolate 

3^  teaspoon  vanilla 

Put  butter  in  saucepan  and  when  melted,  add  sugar 
and  milk.  Bring  to  the  boiling  point  and  let  boil  ten 
minutes.  Add  chocolate  and  let  boil  five  minutes, 
taking  care  that  chocolate  does  not  adhere  to  bottom 
or  sides  of  pan.  Remove  from  range,  add  vanilla 
and  beat  until  of  the  right  consistency  to  spread. 

Fudge  Almond  Frosting 

2  squares  unsweetened  1  cup  milk 

chocolate  2  cups  sugar 

3/6  cup  butter  3^  teaspoon  vanilla 

3^  cup  Jordan  almonds 

Melt  chocolate  over  hot  water  and  add  butter,  bit 
by  bit.  Stir  until  butter  is  melted  and  add  milk 
gradually,  while  beating  constantly.  Bring  to  the 
boiling  point,  add  sugar  and  let  boil  until  mixture 
will  form  a  very  soft  ball  when  tried  in  cold  water; 
the  time  required  being  about  twenty  minutes.  Cool 
slightly,  add  vanilla  and  beat  until  of  the  right  con- 
sistency to  spread;  then  add  almonds,  blanched  and 
cut  in  pieces. 

Sultana  Nut  Frosting 

2  cups  brown  sugar  34  CUP  sultana  raisins 

%  cup  heavy  cream  %  cup  English  walnut  meats 


CAKE  FILLINGS  AND  FROSTINGS  351 

Cook  sugar  and  cream  in  a  graniteware  saucepan 
until  a  soft  ball  may  be  formed  when  mixture  is  tried 
in  cold  water.  Turn  on  a  marble  slab  or  large  platter, 
cool,  then  work  until  creamy,  using  a  spatula  or  large 
wooden  spoon.  Add  raisins  and  nut  meats,  cut  in 
small  pieces,  and  spread  on  cake. 

Caramel  Frosting 

Caramel  syrup  1  egg  white 

1  cup  sugar  Y^  teaspoon  vanilla 

To  caramel  syrup  remaining  from  Caramel  Filling 
(see  p.  345)  add  sugar,  bring  to  boiling  point  and  let 
boil  until  syrup  will  spin  a  thread  when  dropped  from 
tip  of  spoons  or  tines  of  fork.  Pour  gradually,  while 
beating  constantly,  on  the  beaten  white  of  egg  and 
continue  the  beating  until  mixture  is  stiff  enough  to 
spread;  then  add  flavoring. 

Chocolate  Ice  Cream  Frosting 

Follow  recipe  for  Ice  Cream  Frosting  (see  The 
Boston  Cooking-School  Cook  Book,  p.  528).  Just 
before  pouring  over  cake,  fold  in  one  square  melted 
unsweetened  chocolate. 

Orange  Frosting 

2  cups  sugar  Whites  3  eggs 

1  cup  water  %  teaspoon  tartaric  acid 

J^  cup  candied  orange  peel 

Boil  sugar  and  water  until  syrup  will  thread  when 
dropped  from  tip  of  spoon.  Pour  gradually,  while 


352  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

beating  constantly,  on  whites  of  eggs,  beaten  until 
stiff;  then  add  tartaric  acid.  Continue  the  beating 
until  of  right  consistency  to  spread;  then  add  orange 
peal  cut  in  thin  strips. 

Quality  Frosting 

2  cups  sugar  15  drops  glycerine 

3  tablespoons  molasses  Few  grains  salt 

Yi  cup  water  %  teaspoon  vanilla 

Whites  2  eggs  Y$  teaspoon  lemon  extract 

1  cup  chopped  filberts 

Put  sugar,  molasses  and  water  in  saucepan,  place 
on  range  and  stir  until  sugar  has  dissolved.  Bring 
to  the  boiling  point  and  let  boil  until  mixture  nearly 
holds  its  shape  when  tried  in  cold  water.  Pour  syrup 
slowly,  while  beating  constantly,  on  whites  of  eggs, 
beaten  until  stiff,  and  continue  the  beating  until  mix- 
ture is  nearly  stiff  enough  to  spread.  Set  saucepan 
containing  mixture  in  larger  saucepan  containing  a 
small  quantity  of  boiling  water  and  cook  on  range, 
stirring  constantly  from  bottom  and  sides  of  pan 
until  mixture  begins  to  granulate  around  sides.  Re- 
move saucepan  containing  frosting,  add  glycerine 
and  beat  until  of  the  consistency  to  spread;  then  add 
remaining  ingredients.  Pour  over  cake  and  spread 
with  back  of  spoon,  leaving  a  rough  surface. 

Cocoanut  Coffee  Frosting 

1  cup  sugar  Whites  2  eggs 

^2  cup  brown  sugar  3^  cup  desiccated  cocoanut 

Yi  cup  coffee  infusion  Y^  teaspoon  vanilla 

Few  grains  salt 


CAKE  FILLINGS  AND  FROSTINGS  353 

Put  sugar  and  coffee  into  a  saucepan,  place  on 
range,  bring  to  the  boiling  point  and  let  boil  until 
syrup  will  spin  a  thread  when  dropped  from  tip  of 
spoon.  Pour  gradually,  while  beating  constantly,  on 
whites  of  eggs,  beaten  until  stiff,  and  beat  until  cool. 
Set  saucepan  containing  mixture  in  larger  saucepan 
of  boiling  water  placed  on  range  and  cook  until  mix- 
ture becomes  slightly  granular  around  sides  of  pan. 
Remove  from  pan  of  boiling  water  and  beat,  using  a 
spoon,  until  mixture  will  hold  its  shape.  Then  add 
cocoanut,  vanilla  and  salt.  Pour  on  cake  and  spread 
with  back  of  spoon,  leaving  a  rough  surface. 

Oscar's  Frosting 

1  tablespoon  glucose  Confectioners'  sugar 

^2  cup  boiling  water  (scant)          ^  teaspoon  Maraschino 

Put  glucose  in  saucepan,  add  boiling  water  and 
one-half  cup  sugar.  Stir  until  well  blended;  then  add 
one-half  cup  sugar,  and  so  continue  until  about  six 
cups  of  sugar  have  been  used,  beating  vigorously 
between  the  additions.  Flavor  with  maraschino. 
During  the  making  of  this  uncooked  frosting,  the 
saucepan  should  be  frequently  placed  in  a  larger 
saucepan  of  boiling  water,  that  mixture  may  be  kept 
at  a  uniform  lukewarm  temperature.  To  keep  the 
frosting  smooth  and  creamy,  the  sugar  must  not  be 
added  at  too  short  intervals. 

Ornamental  Frosting 

Whites  3  eggs  Confectioners'  sugar 

^  teaspoon  cream-of-tartar 


354  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

Put  egg  whites  in  large  bowl  with  one-half  cup 
sugar  (which  has  been  sifted)  and  beat  vigorously 
ten  minutes;  then  add  another  half  cup  sugar,  and 
beat.  Add  cream-of-tartar  and  continue  adding 
sugar  and  beating  until  mixture  will  hold  its  shape 
when  forced  through  a  bag  and  tube. 


CHAPTER   XXXI 
CONFECTIONS 

Jelly  Macaroons 

%  pound  almond  paste  J/2  pound  powdered  sugar 

Whites  3  eggs  Jelly 

Confectioners'  Frosting 

Break  paste  in  pieces,  add  white  of  one  egg  and 
<work  with  a  spatula  until  well  blended;  then  add 
sugar  and  gradually  work  in  remaining  whites  of 
eggs.  Have  ready  a  tin  sheet  covered  with  buttered 
paper  on  which  is  placed,  at  two  and  one-half  inch 
intervals,  circular  pieces  of  rice  paper,  one-half  inch 
in  diameter.  Force  mixture,  using  a  pastry  bag  and 
small  lady  finger  tube,  around  pieces  of  rice  paper. 
Bake  fifteen  minutes  in  a  slow  oven.  Remove  from 
paper  and  fill  centres  with  a  small  piece  of  jelly. 

Cover  jelly  with  Confectioners'  Frosting  (see  The 
Boston  Cooking-School  Cook  Book,  p.  527),  colored 
red,  pink  or  green. 

Salted  Filberts 

Put  one  cup  filberts  in  saucepan,  cover  with  boiling 
water  and  let  stand  on  range  six  minutes.  Drain 
and  remove  skins,  which  may  be  best  accomplished 
by  the  use  of  a  small  vegetable  knife.  Put  one-third 


356  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

cup  olive  oil  in  omelet  pan,  and  when  hot  put  in 
one-third  of  the  nuts  and  fry  until  delicately 
browned,  stirring  constantly.  Remove  to  pan  lined 
with  soft  paper,  taking  up  as  little  oil  as  possible, 
and  sprinkle  with  salt;  repeat  until  all  are  fried. 

Burnt  Almonds 

2  cups  brown  sugar  2  cups  blanched  Jordan 

Y?.  cup  boiling  water  almonds 

Put  sugar  in  saucepan,  pour  over  boiling  water 
and  place  on  range.  Stir  until  sugar  is  dissolved, 
bring  to  the  boiling  point  and  let  boil  three  minutes. 
Add  almonds  and  cook,  stirring  constantly,  until 
nuts  are  brown  and  well  coated  with  caramel.  Turn 
on  an  oiled  sieve  to  drain  and  cool. 

Stuffed  Prunes 

Remove  stones  from  prunes  and  dates.  Fill 
cavities  made  in  prunes  with  prepared  dates,  shape 
in  original  form  and  roll  in  sugar. 

Devilled  Raisins 

Remove  stems  from  large  selected  raisins  and  cook 
in  hot  olive  oil  until  plump.  Drain  on  brown  paper 
and  sprinkle  with  salt  and  paprika. 

Steamed  Figs 

Steam  bag  figs  until  soft.  Cool  and  make  in  each 
an  incision  lengthwise.  Stuff  with  one-half  marsh- 


THE  SALTING  OF  FILBERTS.  —  Page  355. 


CHAPIN  CHOCOLATE  CARAMELS.  —  Page  359. 


RAISIN  OPERA  CARAMELS. — Page  361 


FUDGE.— Page  363. 


CONFECTIONS  357 

mallow  and  an  English  walnut  meat  broken  in  pieces. 
Close,  press  into  shape  and  serve  in  paper  cases. 

Knickerbocker  Figs 

Stuff  one-half  pound  washed  figs  with  Maraschino 
cherries,  cut  in  halves,  and  pecan  nut  meats,  broken 
in  pieces,  allowing  two  cherries  and  five  nut  meats 
to  each  fig.  Put  two  tablespoons  sugar,  one  teaspoon 
lemon  juice  and  one-half  cup  Sherry  wine  in  sauce- 
pan. Add  figs,  cover  and  let  simmer  until  figs  are 
soft,  turning  and  basting  several  times  during  the 
cooking.  Drain,  cool  and  serve  in  individual  paper 
cases. 

Popped  Corn  Balls 

3  quarts  popped  corn  ^£  cup  sugar 

1  cup  molasses  1  tablespoon  butter 

^  teaspoon  salt 

Pop  corn  and  pick  over  (discarding  kernels 
that  do  not  pop)  and  put  in  large  kettle.  Melt  butter 
in  saucepan  and  add  molasses  and  sugar.  Bring  to 
the  boiling  point  and  let  boil  until  mixture  will  be- 
come brittle  when  tried  in  cold  water.  Pour  mixture 
gradually  while  stirring  constantly  over  corn  which 
has  been  sprinkled  with  salt.  Shape  into  balls, 
using  as  little  pressure  as  possible. 

Stretched  Molasses  Candy 

]/2  cup  butter  1  cup  molasses 

2  cups  sugar  lj^  cups  boiling  water 


358  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

Put  butter  in  Scotch  kettle  or  saucepan,  and  when 
melted  add  sugar,  molasses  and  water.  Bring  to  the 
boiling  point  and  let  boil,  without  stirring,  until  mix- 
ture will  form  a  very  soft  ball  that  will  just  keep  in 
shape  when  tried  in  cold  water.  Turn  into  a  buttered 
dripping  pan,  and  as  mixture  cools  around  sides,  fold 
towards  centre.  When  cool  enough  to  handle,  pull 
until  porous  and  light-colored,  allowing  candy  to 
come  in  contact  with  tips  of  fingers  and  thumbs, 
not  to  be  squeezed  in  the  hand. 

Cut  in  small  pieces,  using  large  shears  or  a  sharp 
knife,  and  arrange  on  slightly  buttered  plates  to 
cool.  A  few  drops  oil-of-peppermint,  clove  or  cin- 
namon may  be  added  during  the  stretching. 

Peanut  Candy 

3  tablespoons  butter  %  cup  sugar 

2  cups  molasses  1  quart  peanuts 

H  teaspoon  salt 

Melt  butter,  add  molasses  and  sugar,  bring  to  the 
boiling  point  and  let  boil  until  mixture  becomes 
brittle  when  tried  in  cold  water.  Stir  in  peanuts 
(shelled,  skinned,  separated  in  halves  and  sprinkled 
with  salt).  Turn  into  a  buttered  pan,  cool  slightly 
and  mark  in  squares. 

Walnut  Molasses  Squares 

2  tablespoons  butter  %  cup  sugar 

1  cup  molasses  Y^  cup  English  walnut  meats 

Few  grains  salt 

Put  butter  in  saucepan  and  when  melted  add  mo- 
lasses and  sugar.  Stir  until  sugar  is  dissolved,  bring 


CONFECTIONS  359 

to  the  boiling  point  and  let  boil  until  mixture  is 
brittle  when  tried  in  cold  water.  During  the  first 
of  the  boiling  stirring  is  unnecessary,  but  when 
nearly  cooked  it  should  be  stirred  constantly.  Add 
walnut  meats,  cut  in  pieces  and  sprinkled  with  salt. 
Turn  into  a  buttered  seven-inch  square  pan,  cool 
slightly  and  mark  in  squares,  using  a  sharp  knife. 

Butter  Taffy 

2  cups  sugar  %  cup  butter 

1  cup  water 

Melt  butter  in  saucepan  and  add  sugar  and  water. 
Bring  to  the  boiling  point  and  let  boil,  without  stir- 
ring, until  mixture  becomes  brittle  when  tried  in  cold 
water.  Turn  into  a  buttered  pan,  cool  slightly  and 
mark  in  squares. 

Butter  Scotch 

2  cups  brown  sugar  1  cup  butter 

2  teaspoons  vinegar  1  cup  water 

Put  ingredients  in  a  smooth  graniteware  saucepan, 
bring  to  the  boiling  point  and  let  boil,  without  stir- 
ring, until  mixture  becomes  brittle  when  tried  in  cold 
water.  Pour  into  a  buttered  pan  to  one-third  inch 
in  thickness,  cool  slightly  and  mark  in  squares. 

Chapin  Chocolate  Caramels 

3  tablespoons  butter  1  cup  molasses 

%  cup  cream  4  squares  unsweetened  choco- 

1  cup  sugar  late 

}/%  teaspoon  vanilla 


360  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

Melt  butter  in  a  Scotch  kettle  and  add  cream, 
sugar  and  molasses.  Bring  to  the  boiling  point  and 
add  chocolate,  balancing  it  on  a  large  wooden  spoon, 
that  it  may  melt  gradually  with  no  danger  of  its 
burning  on  the  kettle.  Continue  the  boiling,  stirring 
occasionally,  until  a  firm  ball  may  be  formed  when 
mixture  is  tried  in  cold  water.  Add  vanilla  and  turn 
into  a  buttered  pan,  having  the  mixture  three-fourths 
inch  in  depth.  When  nearly  cold,  cut  in  cubes,  using 
scissors  or  a  sharp  knife.  Wrap  in  squares  of  paraf- 
fine  paper  and  let  stand  in  a  cold  place  to  harden. 

Nut  Chocolate  Caramels 

To  Chapin  Chocolate  Caramels  add  one  cup 
blanched  and  chopped  almonds  or  chopped  English 
walnut  meats,  just  after  taking  from  fire. 

Vanilla  Opera  Caramels 

1  pound  confectioners'  sugar  %  cup  milk 

}4  cup  butter  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Melt  butter  in  saucepan,  add  sugar  and  milk, 
bring  to  the  boiling  point  and  let  boil  until  mixture, 
when  tried  in  cold  water,  will  form  a  soft  ball.  Re- 
move from  range,  add  vanilla  and  beat  until  creamy. 
Turn  into  a  buttered  pan,  cool  slightly  and  cut  in 
squares. 

Chocolate  Opera  Caramels 

To  Vanilla  Opera  Caramels  add  two  squares  un- 
sweetened chocolate  after  the  boiling  point  is  reached. 


CONFECTIONS  361 

Nut  Opera  Caramels 

To  Vanilla  Opera  Caramels  add  one  cup  chopped 
English  walnut  meats  as  soon  as  mixture  is  removed 
from  range. 

Smith  College  Caramels 

23^  tablespoons  butter  %  cup  milk 

2  cups  brown  sugar  4  squares  unsweetened 

2  tablespoons  molasses  chocolate 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Put  butter  in  saucepan  and  when  melted  add 
sugar,  molasses  and  milk.  Bring  to  the  boiling  point, 
add  chocolate,  and  stir  constantly  until  chocolate 
is  melted.  Let  boil  until  mixture  when  tried  in  cold 
water  will  form  a  firm  ball.  Add  vanilla,  turn  into  a 
buttered  tin,  cool  slightly,  and  cut  in  squares. 

Raisin  Opera  Caramels 

2  cups  light  brown  sugar  %  cup  thin  cream 

l/2  cup  raisins 

Put  sugar  and  cream  in  saucepan,  bring  to  the 
boiling  point  and  let  boil  until  a  soft  ball  may  be 
formed  when  mixture  is  tried  in  cold  water.  Turn 
on  a  marble  slab  or  into  a  large  platter,  cool  slightly 
and  work  with  a  wooden  spatula  or  large  wooden 
spoon  until  creamy.  Add  raisins,  seeded  and 
cut  in  pieces  and  spread  evenly  in  a  buttered 
pan,  using  the  hands,  having  mixture  three-fourths 
inch  in  depth.  Cool  and  cut  in  cubes,  using  a 
small  knife. 


362  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

Stretched  Chocolate  Caramels 

2  cups  sugar  1/2  teaspoon  glycerine 

Yz  cup  boiling  water  \y%  squares  unsweetened 

%  teaspoon  cream-of-tartar  chocolate 

2  tablespoons  heavy  cream 

Put  first  four  ingredients  in  saucepan,  bring  to 
the  boiling  point  and  let  boil,  without  stirring,  until 
mixture  will  become  brittle  when  tried  in  cold  water. 
When  nearly  cooked,  add  cream  and  chocolate.  Turn 
on  a  buttered  platter,  and  as  edges  cool,  fold  towards 
centre.  As  soon  as  cool  enough  to  handle,  pull  until 
glossy,  and  cut  in  small  pieces,  using  a  knife  or  scissors. 
Put  in  paraffine  paper  or  on  slightly  buttered  plate. 

Peanut  Penuche 

1  tablespoon  butter  %  cup  milk  or  cream 

2  cups  brown  sugar  %  cup  chopped  peanuts 

l/i  teaspoon  salt 

Melt  butter  in  saucepan  and  add  sugar  and  milk 
or  cream.  Bring  to  the  boiling  point  and  let  boil  until 
mixture  will  form  a  soft  ball  when  tried  in  cold  water. 
Remove  from  range,  beat  until  creamy  and  add  nut 
meats  sprinkled  with  salt. 

Turn  into  a  buttered  pan,  cool  slightly  and  cut  in 
squares,  using  a  sharp  knife.  Walnuts  or  shredded 
cocoanut  may  be  used  in  place  of  peanuts.  If  cocoa- 
nut  is  used,  add  one-half  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Mexican  Penuche 

2  tablespoons  butter  ^  cup  thin  cream 

2  cups  brown  sugar  1  cup  chopped  walnut  meats 

]/2  pound  figs  cut  in  pieces 

Make  same  as  Peanut  Penuche. 


AFTER  DINNER  MINTS.  —  Page  304. 


TURKISH  MINT  PASTE.  —  Page  367. 


MARSHM ALLOW  MINT  BONBONS  WITH  A  VARIETY 
OF  GARNISHINGS.  —  Page  366 


CONFECTIONS  363 

Fudge 

3  cups  sugar  2^  squares  unsweetened 

%  cup  top  milk  chocolate 

Put  sugar,  chocolate,  cut  in  small  pieces,  and  milk 
in  saucepan,  and  stir  constantly  until  chocolate  is 
melted.  Bring  to  the  boiling  point  and  let  boil  until 
mixture  will  form  a  jelly-like  mass  when  tried  in 
cold  water.  Pour  on  a  marble  slab  and  work  with 
a  spatula  until  of  consistency  to  knead;  then  knead, 
using  the  hands,  until  creamy.  Put  in  a  slightly 
buttered  pan  and  press  evenly,  using  the  back  of  the 
hand.  Cool  slightly  and  cut  in  squares.  Fudge 
made  in  this  way  is  always  more  creamy  than  when 
beaten. 

Peanut  Butter  Fudge 

2  cups  sugar  4  tablespoons  peanut  butter 

%  cup  milk  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Few  grains  salt 

Put  sugar  and  milk  in  saucepan,  bring  to  the  boil- 
ing point  and  let  boil  until  a  soft  ball  may  be  formed 
when  mixture  is  tried  in  cold  water.  Remove  from 
range,  add  remaining  ingredients  and  beat  until 
creamy.  Turn  into  a  buttered  pan  to  three-fourths 
inch  in  depth,  cool  slightly  and  cut  in  squares,  using 
a  sharp-pointed  knife. 

Chocolate  Marshmallow  Fudge 

2  cups  sugar  3  tablespoons  butter 

1  cup  top  milk  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

2  squares  unsweetened  10  marshmallows 

chocolate 


364  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

Put  sugar,  milk  and  chocolate  in  saucepan.  Heat 
gradually  to  the  boiling  point  and  let  boil  until  mix- 
ture will  form  a  soft  ball  when  tried  in  cold  water. 
Remove  from  range,  add  butter  and  as  soon  as 
butter  is  melted,  beat  until  creamy.  Add  vanilla 
and  fold  in  marshmallows,  cut  in  quarters.  Turn 
into  a  buttered  pan,  cool  and  cut  in  cubes. 

Double  Decker 
Parti 

1  cup  brown  sugar  1  cup  chopped  walnut  meats 

3^  cup  milk  Few  grains  salt 

Put  sugar  and  milk  in  saucepan,  bring  to  the  boiling 
point  and  let  boil  rapidly,  until  mixture  will  form  a 
soft  ball  when  tried  in  cold  water.  Remove  from 
range,  add  nut  meats  and  salt,  turn  into  a  buttered 
tin  and  cool. 

Part  II 

1  cup  white  sugar  }<i  cup  milk 

Yz  square  chocolate 

Put  sugar  and  milk  in  saucepan,  and  bring  to  the 
boiling  point.  Add  chocolate  and  stir  until  chocolate 
is  melted.  Then  boil  until  mixture  will  form  a  soft 
ball  when  tried  in  cold  water.  Remove  from  range 
and  beat  until  creamy.  Pour  over  Part  I,  cool  and 
cut  in  squares. 

After  Dinner  Mints 

3  cups  sugar  y%  cup  boiling  water 

%  teaspoon  cream-of-tartar  y%  tablespoon  vinegar 

2  drops  oil  of  peppermint 


CONFECTIONS  365 

Put  ingredients,  except  peppermint,  in  saucepan, 
bring  to  the  boiling  point  and  let  boil,  without  stir- 
ring, until  mixture  will  become  brittle  when  tried  in 
cold  water.  Pour  on  a  buttered  large  platter.  As 
soon  as  edges  cool,  fold  towards  centre  and  as  soon 
as  mixture  can  be  handled,  pull  until  white,  adding 
the  peppermint  during  the  process.  Cut  in  small 
pieces  (using  scissors)  into  a  bowl  containing  pow- 
dered sugar.  Stir  until  coated  with  sugar  and  put 
into  a  glass  jar.  Cover  and  let  stand  from  ten  to 
twelve  days. 

Fondant 

2  cups  sugar  H  teaspoon  cream-of-tartar 

^  cup  boiling  water  ^  teaspoon  glycerine 

Put  ingredients  in  smooth  graniteware  saucepan, 
stir,  place  on  range  and  bring  to  the  boiling  point. 
Boil  rapidly  without  stirring  until,  when  tried  in  cold 
water,  a  jelly-like  ball  may  be  formed.  Pour  into  a 
bowl,  cool,  and  stir  and  beat  until  white  and  creamy. 
Turn  on  a  platter  and  knead  until  smooth.  Return 
to  bowl,  cover  with  paraffine  or  oiled  paper  and 
let  stand  twenty-four  hours.  Heat  until  melted 
in  dish  placed  in  stewpan  containing  boiling  water. 
Flavor  and  color  as  desired.  Fondant  may  be  used 
for  dipping  small  cakes,  frosting  larger  ones  or 
making  confections.  If  a  large  quantity  is  required 
do  not  attempt  to  double  recipe,  but  rather  repeat 
it  until  the  necessary  quantity  is  made. 


366  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

Dipped  Cream  Mints 

Melt  fondant  (using  once  the  recipe),  and  flavor 
with  a  few  drops  oil  of  peppermint,  wintergreen,  clove 
or  cinnamon.  Stir  occasionally,  and  when  cool, 
turn  on  marble  slab  or  board,  dredged  with  confec- 
tioners' sugar,  having  mixture  about  one-fourth  inch 
in  thickness.  Shape  with  a  small  round  cutter,  cover 
and  let  stand  over  night.  In  the  morning  dip  in 
melted  fondant,  flavored  same  as  mints  and  colored 
as  desired.  For  the  dipping  use  a  three-tined  fork 
or  confectioners'  dipper  and  remove  to  paraffine 
paper.  During  the  dipping  keep  dish  containing 
fondant  over  saucepan  of  hot  water.  It  will  be 
necessary  to  again  bring  water  to  boiling  if  fondant 
becomes  too  stiff.  If  this  does  not  suffice,  add  a  few 
drops  boiling  water  to  fondant. 

Marshmallow  Mint  Bonbons 

Cut  marshmallows  in  halves  crosswise  and  flavor 
with  peppermint,  by  putting  a  small  wooden  skewer 
in  a  bottle  of  oil  of  peppermint,  then  on  the  cut  sur- 
face of  the  marshmallow.  Arrange  in  layers  in  a  box, 
cover  and  let  stand  over  night.  In  the  morning  dip 
in  fondant,  flavored  with  a  few  drops  oil  of  pepper- 
mint, and  decorate  top.  of  each  with  Oscar's  Frost- 
ing (see  p.  353),  forced  through  a  pastry  bag  and 
tube.  Put  in  individual  paper  cases. 

Candy  Violets 

Melt  one-half  cup  fondant,  flavor  with  one  drop 
Violet  Essence  and  color  violet.  Stir  in  shredded 


DIPPED  CREAM  MINTS  IN  THE  MAKING.  —  /^  366 


DIPPED  CREAM  MINTS.  —  Page  366. 


CANDY  BASKET  FILLED  WITH  G LACED  STRAWBERRIES.  —  Page  370. 


A  BASKET  OF  HOME-MADE  SWEETS  FOR  CHRISTMAS. 


CONFECTIONS  367 

cocoanut,  which  comes  in  long  pieces  (the  kind  which 
may  be  bought  in  bulk  rather  than  packages),  and 
drop  from  a  two-tined  fork  on  paraffine  paper,  to 
represent  violets.  If  Violet  Essence  is  not  at  hand, 
substitute  a  few  drops  vanilla. 

Turkish  Delight 

1  ounce  gelatine  Juice  1  orange 

^  cup  cold  water  Juice  1  lemon 

1  pound  granulated  sugar  1  tablespoon  rum 
l/2  cup  boiling  water  Red  coloring 

Grated  rind  1  orange  ^  cup  chopped  nut  meats 

Break  gelatine  in  pieces,  add  cold  water,  cover  and 
let  soak  two  hours.  Put  sugar  and  boiling  water  in 
saucepan,  bring  to  the  boiling  point,  add  gelatine 
and  let  simmer  twenty  minutes.  Add  flavorings  and 
coloring,  strain,  add  nut  meats  and  turn  into  a 
bread  pan  (first  rinsed  with  cold  water)  to  one  inch 
in  depth.  Let  stand  until  cold,  remove  to  board, 
cut  in  cubes  and  roll  in  confectioners'  sugar.  The 
rum  and  nut  meats  may  be  omitted. 

Turkish  Mint  Paste 

3  tablespoons  granulated  2  tablespoons  lemon  juice 

gelatine  4  tablespoons  Crdme  de 
H  cup  cold  water  Menthe 

2  cups  sugar  Few  grains  salt 
^  cup  cold  water  Green  coloring 

Soak  gelatine  in  water  twenty  minutes.  Put  sugar 
and  water  in  saucepan,  bring  to  the  boiling  point,  add 
gelatine  and  let  simmer  twenty  minutes.  Remove 


368  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

from  fire,  add  remaining  ingredients  and  color  green. 
Turn  into  a  pan  (first  rinsed  in  cold  water)  to  one 
inch  in  thickness.  Cool,  remove  to  board,  cut  in 
cubes  and  roll  in  confectioners'  sugar. 

Crystal  Cups 

2  pounds  sugar  2  cups  boiling  water 

^  teaspoon  cream-of -tartar 

Put  ingredients  in  a  smooth  saucepan.  Bring  to 
the  boiling  point  and  let  boil,  without  stirring,  until 
syrup  reaches  a  temperature  of  290°  F.,  using  a  con- 
fectioner's thermometer.  As  soon  as  sugar  begins 
to  grow  granular  around  sides  of  pan,  wash  down 
with  the  hand,  first  dipped  in  cold  water.  Set  sauce- 
pan in  larger  saucepan  containing  cold  water  to 
instantly  stop  cooking;  then  set  in  a  saucepan  of 
boiling  water,  that  syrup  may  not  cool  too  rapidly. 

Brush  over  a  timbale  iron  with  olive  oil  and  wipe 
with  soft  paper.  Dip  into  syrup,  taking  care  that 
syrup  covers  iron  to  only  two-thirds  its  depth.  Re- 
move from  syrup,  invert  iron  and  swing  in  front  of 
an  open  window.  As  soon  as  cup  is  formed  take 
from  iron.  Cool  iron  and  repeat. 

It  is  well  to  have  two  irons,  so  that  one  may  cool 
while  the  other  is  being  used.  If  a  color  scheme  is 
to  be  carried  out,  the  syrup  may  be  colored  as 
desired,  just  before  shaping. 

Arrange  cups  on  a  bed  of  Spun  Sugar  (see  The  Bos- 
ton Cooking-School  Cook  Book,  p.  548)  and  fill  with 
ice  cream.  If  used  for  Christmas,  garnish  with  holly. 


CONFECTIONS  369 

Crystallized  Mint  Leaves 

Wipe  fresh  mint  leaves,  remove  from  stems  and 
brush  each  leaf  with  white  of  egg,  beaten  until  stiff. 
Dip  in  one-third  cup  granulated  sugar  flavored  with 
five  drops  oil  of  spearmint.  Place  closely  together 
on  a  cake  rack  covered  with  paraffine  paper  and  let 
stand  in  a  slow  oven  until  dry.  If  the  leaves  are  not 
thoroughly  coated,  the  process  may  be  repeated. 

Candied  Grape  Fruit  Peel  I 

Wipe  three  grape  fruits  and  remove  peel  in  six 
sections  lengthwise  of  fruit.  Soak  over  night  in  one 
quart  cold  water  to  which  has  been  added  one  table- 
spoon salt.  Drain,  put  in  saucepan,  cover  with 
cold  water  and  bring  to  boiling  point;  repeat  three 
times  and  cook  in  the  last  water  until  soft,  the  time 
required  being  about  four  hours.  Drain  and  cut  in 
strips  one-eighth  inch  wide.  Weigh  peel  and  put 
with  an  equal  weight  of  sugar  in  saucepan  and  add 
one-half  cup  cold  water.  Bring  to  the  boiling  point, 
add  one-half  of  the  strips,  cover  and  cook  until 
pieces  are  clear.  Remove  to  plate,  taking  up  as  little 
syrup  as  possible.  Cool,  roll  each  piece  separately 
in  powdered  sugar  and  spread  on  a  platter  to  dry. 
Proceed  in  same  manner  with  remaining  half.  Store 
in  glass  jars. 

Candied  Grape  Fruit  Peel  II 

Wipe  three  grape  fruits  and  remove  peel  in  six 
sections,  lengthwise  of  fruit;  then  cut  and  scrape, 


370  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

using  a  small  vegetable  knife,  removing  almost  all 
of  the  white  portion.  Wash  in  cold  water,  drain 
and  cut  in  thin  strips  lengthwise.  Then  proceed  as  in 
recipe  for  Candied  Grape  Fruit  Peel  I. 

Chocolate  Dipped  Candied  Orange  Peel 

Follow  directions  for  Candied  Orange  Peel 
(see  The  Boston  Cooking-School  Cook  Book, 
p.  547),  leaving  on  considerable  of  the  white  portion. 
Melt  confectioners7  dipping  chocolate  in  a  small 
saucepan,  placed  in  a  larger  saucepan  containing 
boiling  water.  Dip  each  piece  of  candied  orange 
peel  separately  in  chocolate,  put  on  paraffine  paper 
and  let  stand  until  cool. 

Candy  Baskets  of  Glace  Strawberries 

2  cups  sugar  1  cup  boiling  water 

%  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar 

Put  ingredients  in  a  smooth  saucepan,  stir,  place 
on  range  and  heat  to  boiling  point.  Boil  without 
stirring  until  syrup  begins  to  discolor.  Remove 
saucepan  from  fire,  and  place  in  larger  pan  of  cold 
water  to  instantly  stop  boiling.  Remove  from 
cold  water  and  place  in  a  saucepan  of  hot  water. 
Take  up  small  portions  at  a  time,  cool  and  stretch 
until  white,  then  shape  in  the  form  of  a  basket.  It 
may  be  necessary  to  stand  near  a  gas  jet  or  over  a 
hot  range  while  stretching,  otherwise  the  candy 
may  become  brittle.  Repeat  until  the  number 


CRYSTAL  CUPS  IN  THE  MAKING.  —  /^  368. 


CRYSTAL  CUPS.  —  Page  368. 


CINKITES.  —  Page  327. 


CHOCOLATE  DIPPED  CANDIED  ORANGE  PEEL.  —  Page  370. 


CONFECTIONS  371 

of  baskets  required  are  made.  Serve  each  on  a 
bed  of  Spun  Sugar,  and  fill  with  Glace  Strawberries 
(see  The  Boston  Cooking-School  Cook  Book,  pp.  548 
and  547). 

Macaroon  Baskets  filled  with  Ice  Cream  and  garnished 
with  Whipped  Cream 

Follow  directions  for  boiling  syrup  same  as 
given  for  making  Candy  Baskets.  Dip  small 
macaroons  or  macaroon  drops  in  syrup  at  regular 
intervals  close  to  edge  and  put  two  together;  when 
firm  add  a  third  macaroon,  and  so  on  until  a  circle  is 
formed  large  enough  for  the  base  of  basket.  Over 
these  fit  another  layer  of  macaroons  and  over  the 
second  layer  a  third  one.  Make  a  handle  of  stretched 
candy  twisted  and  adjust  same.  Arrange  basket 
on  plates,  fill  with  ice  cream,  garnish  with  whipped 
cream,  sweetened  and  flavored,  and  surround  with 
Spun  Sugar  (see  The  Boston  Cooking-School  Cook 
Book,  p.  548). 


CHAPTER   XXXII 
HORS-D'CEUVRES 

Celery  with  Caviare 

WASH,  scrape  and  cut  celery  stalks  in  three  and 
one-half  inch  pieces  and  curl  ends.  Spread  un- 
curled portions  of  grooves  with  caviare,  and  arrange 
each  on  a  small,  crisp  lettuce  leaf,  placed  on  a  small 
fancy  plate.  Garnish  each  with  a  radish,  cut  to  rep- 
present  a  tulip.  Serve  as  a  first  course  at  a  formal 
dinner  or  luncheon. 

Celery  with  Roquefort 

Wash,  scrape  and  cut  celery  stalks  in  two-inch 
pieces.  Work  one  tablespoon  butter  until  creamy, 
add  two  tablespoons  Roquefort  cheese  and  stir  until 
thoroughly  blended;  then  season  highly  with  salt 
and  paprika.  Spread  mixture  on  inside  of  celery 
stalks  and  serve  on  bed  of  chopped  ice. 

Sardine  Cocktail 

1  small  box  sardines  ^  teaspoon  Tabasco  Sauce 
%  cup  Tomato  Catsup           Juice  1  lemon 

2  teaspoons  Worcestershire     Salt 

Sauce 

Skin  and  bone  sardines  and  separate  in  small 
pieces.  Mix  catsup,  sauce  and  lemon  juice,  add 


HORS-D'(EUVRES  373 

sardines  and  season  with  salt.    Chill  thoroughly  and 
serve  in  scallop  shells  on  a  plate  of  crushed  ice. 

Danish  Canapes 

Cut  stale  bread  in  one-fourth-inch  slices  and  shape 
with  a  round  cutter,  two  and  one-half  inches  in 
diameter.  Toast  on  one  side  and  spread  untoasted 
side  with  butter  worked  until  creamy  and  mixed 
with  chutney,  allowing  one  teaspoon  chutney  to  two 
tablespoons  butter.  Garnish  with  fillets  of  anchovies, 
arranged  lattice  fashion  over  the  top. 

Dexter  Canapes 

Cut  stale  bread  in  one-fourth-inch  slices,  shape 
with  a  round  cutter,  toast  'on  one  side,  and  spread 
untoasted  side  with  butter  worked  until  creamy  and 
seasoned  with  anchovy.  Cover  each  with  a  one- 
third-inch  slice  of  tomato,  spread  tomato  with 
mayonnaise  dressing,  sprinkle  with  yolk  of  hard- 
boiled  egg,  forced  through  a  potato  ricer,  and  white 
of  hard-boiled  egg  finely  chopped.  Garnish  around 
edge  with  a  ring  cut  from  green  pepper,  and  in  the 
centre  with  a  piece  of  olive  and  a  sprig  of  parsley. 

Laitue  Suedoise 

Mix  one  cup  finely  shredded  cabbage,  one-half  cup 
finely  cut  celery,  one  green  pepper  (from  which  seeds 
have  been  removed),  finely  chopped,  one-half  table- 
spoon brown  sugar,  one-half  teaspoon  salt  and  one- 
fourth  teaspoon  mustard  seed.  Moisten  with  French 


374  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

dressing,  cHill  and  allow,  for  each  portion,  one  table- 
spoon on  a  small  crisp  lettuce  leaf. 

Italian  Canapes 

Cut  stale  bread  in  one-third-inch  slices  and  remove 
crusts.  Cut  in  finger-shaped  pieces  and  toast  on  one 
side.  Mix  one  cup  grated  Parmesan  cheese,  two- 
thirds  cup  heavy  cream,  and  two  tablespoons  Ma- 
deira wine  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Spread 
untoasted  side  of  bread  with  mixture,  arrange  in  a 
pan  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  six  minutes.  Garnish 
with  sprigs  of  parsley  and  serve  at  once  on  heated 
small  plates. 

St.  Valentine's  Canapes 

Cut  bread  in  one-fourth-inch  slices,  shape  with  a 
heart-shaped  cutter  and  saute  in  butter.  Drain 
canned  pimiento,  dry  between  towels  and  shape  with 
a  heart-shaped  cutter;  then  saute  in  butter.  Remove 
to  bread  and  garnish  with  a  border  of  finely  chopped 
parsley.  Serve  hot. 

Plaza  Canapes 

Cut  bread  in  one-third-inch  slices,  shape  in 
crescent-shaped  pieces  and  saute  in  butter  until  del- 
icately browned.  Spread  with  Anchovy  butter  and 
sprinkle  one-half  the  pieces  with  chopped  whites  of 
hard-boiled  eggs,  sprinkled  with  paprika;  the  other 
half  with  the  yolks  of  hard-boiled  eggs,  forced 
through  a  sieve.  Garnish  with  sprigs  of  watercress. 


ALLEN  CANAPE.    ST.  VALENTINE'S  CANAPE.      DEXTER  CANAPE\ 


SMOKED  FISH  CANAPE.  —  Page  375. 


FISH  CANAPE.  —  Page  376. 


HOR&-D'(EUVRES  375 

Smoked  Fish  Canapes 

Cut  stale  bread  in  one-fourth-inch  slices,  remove 
crusts  and  cut  in  oblongs  four  by  three  inches;  then 
saute  in  olive  oil  until  delicately  browned.  Arrange 
on  each,  lengthwise,  alternate  pieces  of  thinly  sliced 
smoked  salmon  and  smoked  herring,  using  two  of 
each.  Pipe  around  each  a  border  of  butter  worked 
until  creamy  and  seasoned  with  anchovy  and  lemon 
juice. 

Clam  Canapes  I 

3  dozen  clams  in  shells  1  tablespoon  lemon  juice 

%  cup  water  9  drops  Tabasco  Sauce 

6  mushroom  caps  1  teaspoon  Sherry  wine 

23^  tablespoons  flour  Y^  teaspoon  evaporated 
2l/2  tablespoons  butter  horseradish 

%  cup  clam  liquor  1  teaspoon  vinegar 
3  tablespoons  tomato  catsup       1  teaspoon  salt 

Wash  clams,  changing  the  water  several  times. 
Put  in  kettle,  pour  over  water,  cover  and  let  steam 
until  shells  are  partially  opened.  Remove  clams 
from  shells,  reserving  soft  portions,  and  strain  liquor 
through  a  double  thickness  of  cheese-cloth.  Brush, 
peel  and  chop  mushroom  caps.  Cook  with  butter 
one  minute,  add  flour  and  then  pour  on  clam  liquor. 
Bring  to  the  boiling  point  and  add  catsup,  lemon 
juice,  Tabasco  Sauce,  wine,  horseradish  mixed  with 
vinegar,  salt  and  soft  part  of  clams.  Re-heat  and 
serve  on  oval-shaped  pieces  of  toast  arranged  for 
individual  service  on  small  fancy  plates. 


376  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

Clam  Canapes  II 

Cut  stale  bread  in  one-third-inch  slices,  shape  in 
two-and-one-half  inch  circular  pieces  and  saute  in 
butter.  Spread  with  pate-de-foie-gras  puree.  Pipe 
around  edge  yolks  of  hard-boiled  eggs,  rubbed 
through  a  sieve,  mixed  with  creamed  butter  and 
seasoned  with  salt  and  paprika.  Inside  of  border 
arrange  a  ring  of  white  of  hard-boiled  egg,  finely 
chopped,  and  sprinkle  with  finely  chopped  parsley. 

In  centre  place  little  neck  clams,  seasoned  with 
Tomato  Catsup,  lemon  juice,  salt,  Worcestershire 
Sauce,  Tabasco  Sauce  and  a  few  gratings  horse- 
radish. 

Allen  Canapes 

Cut  bread  in  one-fourth-inch  slices  and  shape  with 
a  circular  cutter  two  and  one-half  inches  in  diameter. 
Saute  on  one  side  only,  until  delicately  browned. 
Spread  sides  which  have  not  been  sauted  with  water- 
cress butter  and  with  a  pastry  bag  and  tube  pipe  a 
border  of  the  butter  around  circumference.  Fill 
centres  with  caviare  and  finely  chopped  whites  of 
hard-boiled  eggs,  used  in  equal  proportions. 

Fish  Canapes 

Remove  caviare  from  can  to  strainer  and  pour  over 
hot  water  to  remove  some  of  the  oil.  Drain  thor- 
oughly and  season  with  lemon  juice.  Brush  inside 
of  small  fish  moulds  sparingly  with  olive  oil  and  put 
in  a  shallow  pan  of  crushed  ice.  Cover  bottoms  with 
aspic  jelly  mixture,  made  from  fish  or  white  stock. 


HORS-D'(EUVRES  377 

When  set,  cover  body  of  fish  with  caviare,  and  add 
jelly  mixture  gradually,  by  spoonfuls,  until  moulds 
are  full.  Chill  thoroughly,  remove  to  crisp  lettuce 
leaves,  insert  small  pieces  of  truffle  to  represent  eyes, 
and  place  on  small  plates  for  individual  service. 

Caviare  Rissolettes 

Roll  puff  paste  to  one-fourth  inch  in  thickness,  and 
shape  with  a  small  round  cutter,  first  dipped  in  flour. 
Wet  edges  of  one-half  the  pieces  and  place  in  centre 
of  each  one  teaspoon  Russian  Caviare  seasoned  with 
lemon  juice.  Cover  with  remaining  pieces  and  press 
edges  firmly  together.  Fry  in  deep  fat  and  drain  on 
brown  paper.  Arrange  for  individual  service  on 
small  plates  covered  with  lace  paper  doilies.  Serve 
as  a  first  course  at  a  formal  dinner. 

Butterfly  Canapes 

Arrange  on  small  serving  plate  two  small  crisp 
heart  lettuce  leaves,  representing  wings.  Where 
leaves  meet,  put  one  tablespoon  thin  slices  of  celery, 
cut  crosswise  and  moistened  with  Mayonnaise  Dress- 
ing. On  each  side  of  celery  put  three-fourths  table- 
spoon Norwegian  sardines,  separated  into  flakes. 
Sprinkle  sardines  with  the  chopped  white  of  hard- 
boiled  egg,  leaving  outer  edge  of  sardine  uncovered. 
Sprinkle  celery  with  yolks  of  hard-boiled  eggs 
(forced  through  a  strainer)  and  put  a  one-half  inch 
band  of  Mayonnaise  Dressing  through  length  of  cen- 
tre. Arrange  at  regular  intervals  narrow  cross  bands 


378  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

of  paprika  and  sprinkle  ends  with  finely  chopped 
parsley. 

Washington  Canapes 

Cut  stale  bread  in  one-third-inch  slices,  shape  into 
rounds  two  and  one-half  inches  in  diameter  and  toast 
on  one  side.  Spread  untoasted  side  with  butter, 
worked  until  creamy,  mixed  with  an  equal  quantity 
of  grated  Parmesan  cheese  and  seasoned  with  salt 
and  pepper.  Cook  one  finely  chopped  shallot  with 
one  tablespoon  butter  three  minutes.  Add  two 
tablespoons  flour  and  stir  until  well  blended;  then 
pour  on  gradually,  while  stirring  constantly,  one  cup 
cream.  Bring  to  the  boiling  point,  add  one-half 
pound  crab  meat  and  season  with  one-half  teaspoon 
salt,  one-fourth  teaspoon  paprika  and  a  few  grains 
black  pepper.  Spread  prepared  bread  with  mixture, 
rounding  slightly,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  until  del- 
icately browned.  Garnish  with  thin  strips  of  red 
pepper. 

Finnan  Haddie  Canapes 

Soak  finnan  haddie  in  lukewarm  water  to  cover, 
set  on  back  of  range  and  let  stand  until  fish  may  be 
separated  easily  into  flakes;  there  should  be  one  cup. 
Fry  one-half  tablespoon  finely  chopped  onion  and 
two  chopped  mushroom  caps  in  three  tablespoons 
butter  five  minutes.  Add  two  tablespoons  flour  and 
pour  on  gradually,  while  stirring  constantly,  two- 
thirds  cup  thin  cream.  As  soon  as  boiling  point  is 
reached,  add  two  tablespoons  grated  cheese,  yolks 


HORN  OF  PLENTY  CANAPE. —  Page  379. 


BUTTERFLY  CANAPE\—  Page  377. 


KINDERGARTEN  SANDWICHES  IN  THE  MAKING.  —  Page  381. 


PS 

a  >  D  Ly 


KINDERGARTEN  SANDWICHES.  —  Page  381. 


HORS-D'CEUVRES  379 

of  two  eggs,  slightly  beaten,  and  finnan  haddie. 
Season  with  salt  and  cayenne.  Cool  and  pile  on 
circular  pieces  of  toasted  bread  two  inches  in  diam- 
eter. Sprinkle  with  grated  cheese  and  buttered 
bread  crumbs  and  bake  until  crumbs  are  brown. 

Canapes  a  la  Rector 

Cut  stale  bread  in  one-fourth-inch  slices,  then  in 
strips  three  and  one-half  inches  long  by  one  and  one- 
half  inches  wide.  Toast  on  one  side  and  spread 
untoasted  side  with  caviare.  Divide  diagonally  into 
three  sections,  having  two  end  ones  half  a  square. 
Sprinkle  centre  with  finely  chopped  cucumber  pickles 
and  ends  with  finely  chopped  red  pepper.  Separate 
sections  with  a  piece  cut  from  a  fillet  of  anchovy. 

Horn  of  Plenty  Canapes 

Cut  smoked  salmon  in  thin  slices,  crosswise  of 
fish,  and  shape  in  forms  of  horns  of  plenty.  Fill 
horns  with  caviare  to  which  have  been  added  a  few 
drops  of  lemon  juice.  Arrange  for  individual  service 
on  elliptical  pieces  of  toasted  bread  on  a  plate  cov- 
ered with  a  lace  paper  doily. 

St.  Patrick's  Caviare  Canapes 

Pat  and  roll  puff  paste  to  one-eighth  inch  in  thick- 
ness, and  shape  with  small  fancy  cutter,  first  dipped 
in  flour;  then  with  a  small  round  cutter  (first  dipped 
in  flour)  make  indentation  in  centres,  so  a  portion 


380  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

may  be  removed  after  baking,  to  admit  of  filling. 
Place  on  a  tin  sheet  and  bake  in  hot  oven.  Mash 
yolk  of  hard-boiled  egg,  rub  through  a  fine  strainer, 
and  add  butter  to  make  of  right  consistency  to  force 
through  a  pastry  bag  and  tube.  Season  with  salt 
and  paprika  and  garnish  edge  of  pastry  forms  with 
mixture,  forced  through  a  pastry  bag  and  tube. 
Color  cold  water  green  and  fill  a  small  brick  mould. 
Set  mould  in  pail  on  bed  of  rock  salt  and  finely 
crushed  ice,  using  equal  parts,  and  surround  with 
salt  and  ice  nearly  to  top  of  mould.  Let  stand  until 
ice  case  is  formed.  Invert  to  remove  water  remain- 
ing in  centre  and  place  mould  on  a  folded  napkin  on 
glass  dish.  Put  caviare  seasoned  with  lemon  juice 
in  cavity  of  mould  and  garnish  wTith  large  and  small 
clay  pipes  each  tied  with  green  ribbon.  Half  fill 
bowls  of  pipes  with  alcohol  just  before  sending  to 
table  and  apply  lighted  match. 

Arrange  pastry  forms  on  small  plates  for  individ- 
ual service  and  garnish  with  sprigs  of  parsley.  As 
soon  as  alcohol  has  stopped  burning,  pass  caviare 
that  each  guest  may  fill  his  case. 


CHAPTER    XXXIII 

SANDWICHES 

Kindergarten  Sandwiches 

REMOVE  crusts  from  a  white  and  graham  loaf 
and  cut  each  in  thin  slices,  lengthwise.  Shape 
with  round,  round-fluted,  elliptical,  cutlet-shaped, 
square  or  oblong  cutters.  Spread  one-half  the  pieces 
generously  with  butter,  which  has  been  worked  until 
creamy.  From  remaining  pieces  cut  out  shapes, 
using  small  flower,  animal  or  fancy  cutters,  and 
refill  cuts  thus  made  with  similar  cuts  of  bread  of 
contrasting  color.  Put  together  as  shown  in  illus- 
tration and  wrap  in  cheese-cloth  wrung  out  of  hot 
water  to  keep  moist  until  serving  time. 

Mosaic  Sandwiches 

Cut  three  slices  each  of  white  and  graham  bread 
one-half  inch  in  thickness.  Spread  a  slice  of  white 
bread  with  creamed  butter  and  place  a  slice  of  graham 
on  it;  spread  this  with  creamed  butter  and  place  on 
it  a  slice  of  white  bread;  repeat  this  process,  begin- 
ning with  a  slice  of  graham.  Put  both  piles  in  a  cool 
place  under  a  light  weight.  When  butter  has  become 
firm,  trim  each  pile  evenly  and  cut  each  pile  in  three 
one-half-inch  slices.  Spread  these  with  butter  and 


382  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

put  together  in  such  a  way  that  a  white  block  will 
alternate  with  a  graham  one.  Place  again  in  a  cool 
place  under  a  light  weight,  and  when  butter  has 
become  perfectly  hard  cut  in  thin  slices  for  serving. 
Arrange  on  a  plate  covered  with  a  doily. 

Honor  Sandwiches 

Cut  bread  in  one-fourth-inch  slices,  spread  with 
pimiento  butter  and  shape  with  a  fancy  rectangular 
cutter.  Cover  with  pieces  of  bread  from  which 
pieces  have  been  removed  with  a  small  fancy  cutter. 

Pimiento  Butter. — Cream  one-fourth  cup  butter 
and  add  two  canned  pimientos,  which  have  been 
forced  through  a  puree  strainer.  When  thoroughly 
blended,  season  with  one-fourth  teaspoon  salt. 

Toasted  Salad  Sandwiches 

Mash  a  cream  cheese  and  moisten  with  French 
dressing.  Cut  graham  bread  in  one-fourth-inch 
slices,  spread  with  cheese  mixture  and  sprinkle  with 
chopped  pecan  nut  meats.  Put  together  in  pairs, 
remove  crusts  and  cut  in  finger-shaped  pieces.  Toast, 
pile  log-cabin  fashion  on  a  fancy  plate  and  serve  as 
an  accompaniment  to  a  dinner  salad. 

Devilled  Sandwiches 

Blanch  and  shred  two  ounces  Jordan  almonds; 
then  saute  in  enough  butter  to  prevent  burning, 
until  delicately  browned,  stirring  constantly.  Mix 
two  tablespoons  chopped  pickles,  one  tablespoon 


MOSAIC  SANDWICHES.  —  Page  381. 


HONOR  SANDWICHES.  —  Page  382. 


HORSERADISH  SANDWICHES. — Page  389. 


DREAM  SANDWICHES.  —  Page  383. 


SANDWICHES  383 

Worcestershire  Sauce,  one  tablespoon  chutney,  one- 
fourth  teaspoon  salt  and  a  few  grains  cayenne.  Pour 
over  almonds  and  cook  two  minutes,  stirring  con- 
stantly. Work  a  cream  cheese  until  smooth  and 
season  with  salt  and  paprika.  Spread  unsweetened 
wafer  crackers  with  cheese,  sprinkle  with  nuts  and 
put  together  in  pairs.  Arrange  on  a  plate,  covered 
with  a  doily.  A  delicious  accompaniment  to  a  dinner 
salad. 

Caviare  Sandwiches 

Cut  white  bread  in  thin  slices,  spread  with  creamed 
butter  and  then  with  caviare.  Sprinkle  with  lemon 
juice  and  cayenne;  cover  with  slices  of  buttered 
bread,  remove  crusts  and  cut  in  small  finger-shaped 
pieces. 

Dream  Sandwiches 

Cut  stale  bread  in  one-fourth-inch  slices;  remove 
crusts  and  cut  in  rectangular  pieces.  Cut  mild  cheese 
in  slices  same  size  as  pieces  of  bread  and  sprinkle 
with  salt  and  cayenne.  Put  a  slice  of  cheese  between 
each  two  slices  of  bread  and  saute  in  butter  until 
delicately  browned  on  one  side;  then  turn  and  brown 
other  side. 

Chicken  Cream  Sandwiches 

Y±  cup  chopped  cold  boiled  3  tablespoons  flour 

fowl  2  tablespoons  butter 

^  cup  chopped  celery  Whites  2  eggs 

1  hot  boiled  onion  ^2  teaspoon  salt 

1  cup  milk  %  teaspoon  pepper 

Lemon  juice 


384  \  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

Mix  fowl  (preferably  white  meat),  celery  and  onion, 
forced  through  a  puree  strainer,  and  add  milk;  then 
add  flour,  mixed  with  butter  worked  until  creamy. 
Bring  to  the  boiling  point  and  let  simmer  three  min- 
utes; then  add  whites  of  eggs,  beaten  until  stiff,  and 
seasonings.  Turn  into  a  small  mould  and  let  stand 
in  a  cold  place  twelve  hours.  Remove  from  mould, 
cut  in  slices  and  put  between  thin  slices  of  buttered 
bread.  Remove  crusts  and  cut  in  any  desired  shape. 

Spanish  Sandwiches 

Put  in  a  mortar  and  pound  to  a  paste  two  ancho- 
vies, two  pickles,  one  sprig  parsley,  three  tablespoons 
capers,  one  teaspoon  made  mustard,  two  table- 
spoons olive  oil,  two  tablespoons  vinegar  and  yolks 
of  two  hard-boiled  eggs;  then  season  with  salt  and 
paprika.  Cut  bread  in  thin  slices,  butter  sparingly, 
spread  with  mixture  and  sprinkle  with  whites  of 
hard-boiled  eggs,  finely  chopped.  Cover  with  slices 
of  buttered  bread,  remove  crusts  and  cut  in  fancy 
shapes. 

Fairmont  Sandwiches 

Cut  bread  in  one-fourth-inch  slices.  Spread  three 
slices  sparingly  with  butter  on  both  sides,  and  two 
slices  on  but  one  side.  Put  between  slices  layers  of 
finely  cut  red  and  green  peppers  wrung  through  a 
cheese-cloth  to  remove  moisture,  moistened  with 
Mayonnaise  Dressing.  There  should  be  two  layers 
of  green  peppers  and  one  of  red.  Remove  crusts, 
fold  in  cheese-cloth  and  press  under  a  weight;  then 


SANDWICHES  385 

cut  in  slices  for  serving,   and  arrange  on  a  plate 
covered  with  a  doily. 

Semhrich  Sandwiches 

Cut  and  spread  seven  slices  bread,  same  as  for 
Fairmont  Sandwiches.  Put  between  slices  finely 
chopped  cold  boiled  ham,  moistened  with  cream  and 
seasoned  with  salt,  mustard  and  cayenne;  finely 
chopped  cold  boiled  fowl,  moistened  with  Mayon- 
naise Dressing,  and  chopped  nut  meats,  moistened 
with  Mayonnaise  Dressing:  there  should  be  two 
layers  of  each  filling.  Remove  crusts,  fold  in  cheese- 
cloth and  press  under  a  weight.  Cut  in  slices  and 
arrange  on  a  bed  of  crisp  lettuce  leaves. 

Lincoln  Sandwiches 

Cut  brown  and  white  bread  in  thin  slices  and 
spread  with  butter,  which  has  been  worked  until 
creamy.  Cut  cold  boiled  tongue  and  gruyere  cheese 
in  thin  slices.  Put  a  slice  of  tongue  on  wrhite  bread, 
over  tongue  brown  bread,  and  over  brown  bread 
cheese;  repeat.  Wrap  in  cheese-cloth,  put  under  a 
weight  and  let  stand  several  hours. 

For  serving  cut  in  thin  slices  crosswise,  and  arrange 
sandwiches  overlapping  one  another,  in  two  parallel 
rows  on  a  plate  covered  with  a  lace  paper  doily. 

German  Sandwiches 

Cut  German  Loaf  (p.  137)  in  thin  slices  and  put 
between  thin  slices  of  buttered  graham  bread. 


386  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

Royal  Sandwiches 

Yz  cup  shrimps  y^  Bermuda  onion 

J^  cup  cooked  chicken  livers          Salt 

}/2  red  pepper  Mayonnaise  Dressing 

Mix  and  force  through  a  meat  chopper  shrimps, 
livers,  pepper  (from  which  seeds  have  been  removed) 
and  onion.  Season  with  salt  and  moisten  with  May- 
onnaise Dressing.  Spread  between  thin  slices  of  but- 
tered bread,  remove  crusts  and  cut  in  fancy  shapes. 
Arrange  on  a  plate  covered  with  a  doily. 

East  India  Sandwiches 

Hard  cook  eggs,  separate  yolks  from  whites,  mash 
yolks  and  finely  chop  whites.  Moisten  yolks  with 
Bengal  Club  Chutney  until  of  the  right  consistency 
to  spread.  Spread  thin  slices  of  buttered  bread  with 
mixture,  sprinkle  with  chopped  whites,  cover  with 
thin  slices  of  buttered  bread,  remove  crusts  and  cut 
in  halves  crosswise. 

Penobscot  Sandwiches 

Free  cold  cooked  salmon  from  skin  and  bones; 
there  should  be  one-half  cup.  Mash  and  add 
white  of  one  hard-boiled  egg  finely  chopped  and 
one  tablespoon  finely  chopped  cucumber  pickle; 
season  with  salt  and  paprika  and  moisten  with 
Cream  Salad  Dressing.  Mash  yolks  of  two  hard- 
boiled  eggs  and  add  one  and  one-half  tablespoons 
melted  butter,  one  and  one-half  tablespoons  chopped 
nut  meats  and  a  few  drops  anchovy  essence.  Re- 


FAIRMONT  SANDWICHES.  —  Page  384. 


EGG  AND  POTATO  SALAD.  —  Page  210. 


BELMONT  BAKED  APPLES  READY  FOR  THE  OVEN.  —  Page  391. 


BELMONT  BAKED  APPLES.  —  Page  391. 


SANDWICHES  387 

move  crusts  from  a  stale  white  loaf  in  four  pieces 
and  cut  off  five  one-third-inch  slices  lengthwise  of 
loaf.  Spread  three  slices,  on  both  sides,  with  butter 
worked  until  creamy,  remaining  two  slices  on  but 
one  side.  Spread  two  mixtures  alternately,  between 
slices  of  bread,  sprinkling  egg  yolk  mixture  with 
finely  chopped  green  pepper.  Wrap  in  paraffine 
paper  or  cheese-cloth,  place  under  a  light  weight  and 
let  stand  until  serving  time.  Cut  in  one-third-inch 
slices  crosswise  and  each  slice  in  halves  lengthwise. 
Arrange  overlapping  one  another  on  a  plate  covered 
with  a  lace  paper  doily. 

Orange  Honey  Sandwiches 

Spread  thin  slices  of  buttered  white  bread  with 
orange  honey.  Put  together  in  pairs,  remove  crusts 
and  cut  in  fancy  shapes.  For  the  orange  honey 
boil  one  cup  sugar  with  one-fourth  cup,  each,  water 
and  orange  juice,  until  syrup  will  spin  a  thread  when 
dropped  from  tip  of  spoon.  Add  one-half  cup  finely 
chopped  orange  peel  (from  which  all  white  portion 
has  been  removed)  and  one-half  teaspoon  vanilla. 
Again  bring  to  th'e  boiling  point  and  cool. 

French  Prune  Sandwiches 

Remove  stones  from  French  prunes  and  finely 
chop.  Mix  with  chopped  English  walnut  meats,  al- 
lowing seven  halves  of  nut  meats  to  every  six  prunes. 
Moisten  with  a  thin  syrup  (made  by  boiling  sugar 


388  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

and  water  together)  and  season  with  salt,  paprika 
and  lemon  juice.  Spread  between  thin  slices  of  but- 
tered white  bread  and  cut  in  fancy  shapes,  using  a 
cutlet  cutter. 

Jelly  Sandwiches 

Cut  bread  in  one-third-inch  slices,  and  remove 
crusts;  then  toast  and  cut  in  halves  on  the  diagonal. 
Spread  with  butter  and  currant  jelly  (beaten  until 
of  the  consistency  to  spread  evenly).  Sprinkle  one- 
half  the  pieces  with  English  walnut  meats,  cover  with 
remaining  pieces  and  arrange  for  individual  service 
on  small  hot  plates. 

Lenox  Sandwiches 

Work  one-fourth  cup  almond  paste  until  smooth. 
Add  gradually  one-fourth  cup  powdered  sugar  and 
a  few  grains  salt;  then  add  three-eighths  cup  heavy 
cream.  Spread  thin  slices  of  buttered  bread  with 
mixture,  cover  with  buttered  bread,  remove  crusts 
and  cut  in  finger-shaped  pieces. 

Macedoine  Sandwiches 

%  cup  finely  chopped  1  tablespoon  ginger  syrup 

Canton  ginger  1  teaspoon  vinegar 

%  cup  finely  chopped  Few  grains  salt 

pecan  nut  meats  Saltines 

2  tablespoons  finely  cut  orange  pulp 

Mix  ingredients  in  order  given  and  spread  between 
saltines  or  thin  slices  of  buttered  bread. 


SANDWICHES  389 

Waltham  Five  o'clock  Tea  Sandwiches 

Work  a  cream  cheese  until  of  the  right  consistency 
to  spread.  Spread  on  thin,  salted,  unsweetened  round 
wafer  crackers  and  cover  with  halves  of  marshmal- 
lows,  cut  crosswise,  and  pulled  out  with  the  fingers  to 
about  fit  crackers.  Cover  with  wafer  crackers,  ar- 
range on  tin  sheet  and  bake  until  cheese  and  marsh- 
mallows  begin  to  melt. 

Horseradish  Sandwiches 

6  tablespoons  butter  1  teaspoon  lemon  juice 

4  tablespoons  grated  horseradish       Few  grains  salt. 
Pimolas 

Cream  butter,  add  gradually  horseradish,  lemon 
juice,  and  salt.  Spread  between  thin  slices  of  bread, 
shape  with  a  cutter  in  form  of  diamonds  and  gar- 
nish each  with  a  slice  cut  from  a  pimola  crosswise. 

Commonwealth  Marmalade  Sandwiches 

Remove  end  slice  from  a  loaf  of  bread.  Spread  end 
of  loaf  evenly  with  butter  which  has  been  creamed. 
Cut  off  a  thin  slice  and  repeat  until  the  number  of 
slices  required  are  prepared. 

Spread  with  orange  marmalade,  put  together  in 
pairs  and  press  together.  Remove  crusts  and  cut 
in  halves  crosswise.  Put  in  a  pan  and  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  until  delicately  browned  on  both 
sides,  turning  once  during  the  browning. 


390  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

Rochester  Chocolate  Sandwiches 

J4  cup  butter  1  square  unsweetened  chocolate 

^  cup  sugar  2  tablespoons  milk 

1  egg  1  %  cups  flour 

Few  grains  salt  1  teaspoon  baking  powder 

Cream  butter  and  add  gradually,  while  beating 
constantly,  sugar;  then  add  egg,  well  beaten,  salt, 
chocolate  (melted),  milk  and  flour,  mixed  and  sifted 
with  baking  powder.  Toss  on  a  slightly  floured 
board,  pat  and  roll  as  thin  as  possible.  Shape  with 
a  small  round  cutter  (first  dipped  in  flour),  arrange  on 
a  buttered  sheet  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 
Cool  and  put  together  with  the  following  mixture: 
Work  a  cream  cheese  until  smooth  and  moisten  with 
cream  until  of  the  right  consistency  to  spread;  then 
season  highly  with  salt  and  paprika. 


GRAPE  FRUIT  A  LA  RUSSE. —  Page  392. 


RECTOR  LEAF.  —  Page  393. 


CANTELOUPE  SUPREME. — Page  394. 


LENOX  STRAWBERRIES. — Page  394. 


CHAPTER  XXXIV 

FRUITS,   FRESH,   PRESERVED   AND   CANNED 
Belmont  Baked  Apples 

WIPE  selected  red  apples  and  make  two  circu- 
lar cuts  through  skin,  leaving  a  three-fourths- 
inch  band  around  apple  midway  between  stem  and 
blossom  ends.  Put  in  an  earthen  or  graniteware 
baking  dish,  sprinkle  generously  with  sugar  and  add 
water  to  cover  bottom  of  pan.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven 
until  soft,  basting  every  eight  minutes  with  syrup 
in  pan.  Remove  to  serving  dish  and  pour  around 
syrup. 

Baked  Apples  in  Casserole 

Wipe,  pare  and  core  six  medium-sized  apples. 
Put  in  casserole,  add  one  cup  water  and  one  and 
one-half  cups  sugar  and  dredge  with  flour.  Cover 
and  cook  in  a  slow  oven  one  hour.  Do  not  remove 
cover  during  the  baking. 

Apple  Ball  Sauce 

Wipe  apples,  pare  and  shape  into  balls,  using  a 
French  vegetable  cutter;  there  should  be  one  and 
one-half  cups.  Make  a  syrup  by  boiling  one  cup 
sugar,  three-fourths  cup  water,  six  cloves  and  three  or 


392  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

four  thin  shavings  from  the  rind  of  a  lemon,  seven 
minutes.  Remove  cloves  and  rind,  add  one-third 
of  the  balls  and  cook  until  soft;  repeat  twice.  Cook 
syrup  until  reduced  one-half  and  pour  over  balls. 

Stewed  Apricots  and  Prunes 

Pick  over  and  wash  one-fourth  pound  each  dried 
apricots  and  prunes.  Put  in  saucepan,  cover  with 
cold  water,  place  on  range,  bring  to  the  boiling  point 
and  drain.  Repeat  three  times;  again  cover  with 
cold  water  and  add  one  cup  sugar.  Again  bring 
to  the  boiling  point  and  let  simmer  until  soft. 

Sauted  Pineapple 

Drain  canned,  sliced  pineapple  from  syrup  and 
dry  on  a  towel.  Saute  in  butter  until  delicately 
browned.  Serve  around  roast  turkey  or  roast 
chicken. 

Pineapple  Saute 

Empty  a  can  of  sliced  pineapple  into  a  shallow 
graniteware  baking  pan,  not  allowing  slices  to  over- 
lap one  another.  Place  on  back  of  range  and  let 
simmer  two  or  three  hours,  when  pineapple  will 
be  quite  clear.  Remove  to  serving  dish  and  garnish 
centre  of  each  with  a  glaced  cherry.  Serve  as  an 
accompaniment  to  meat  or  game. 

Grape  Fruit  a  la  Russe 

3  grape  fruits  2  tablespoons  powdered  sugar 

%j  cup  sugar  Few  grains  salt 

1  cup  heavy  cream  Y^  teaspoon  marascliino 


FRUITS,  FRESH,  PRESERVED,  AND  CANNED      393 

Wipe  grape  fruits,  cut  in  halves,  crosswise,  and 
remove  seeds  and  tough  portions.  Sprinkle  with 
granulated  sugar  and  chill  in  ice  box.  Beat  cream 
until  stiff  and  add  powdered  sugar,  salt  and  maras- 
chino. Pipe  a  border,  by  forcing  a  mixture  through 
a  pastry  bag  and  tube,  on  top  of  each  half  in  the  form 
of  a  square.  Garnish  at  each  corner  with  a  glaced 
cherry.  Serve  in  double  cocktail  glasses  having  the 
larger  ones  filled  with  crushed  ice. 

Grape  Fruit  Coupe 

Remove  pulp  from  grape  fruit  in  sections,  cut 
each  section  in  thirds,  sprinkle  with  sugar  and 
chill  in  ice  box.  Arrange  six  fresh  mint  leaves  at 
equal  distances  around  inside  of  each  coupe  glass, 
having  ends  of  leaves  reach  top  of  glass.  Fill  with 
prepared  pulp  and  garnish  centre  of  each  with  a 
small-  sprig  of  mint. 

Rector  Leaf 

4  grape  fruits  1  teaspoon  lemon  juice 

^2  cup  powdered  sugar  1  teaspoon  Kirsch 

2  teaspoons  orange  curagoa  Y%  teaspoon  salt 

Remove  pulp  from  grape  fruit,  add  remaining  in- 
gredients and  chill  thoroughly.  Serve  in  coupe 
glasses  having  six  fresh  mint  leaves  arranged  length- 
wise at  equal  distances  around  inside  of  each  glass. 

Watermelon  Cubes,  Sherry  Dressing 

Cut  centre  of  a  thoroughly  chilled  watermelon  into 
three-fourth-inch  cubes  and  remove  seeds.  Pour 


394  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

over  Sherry  Dressing,  put  in  jar  and  let  stand  in  ice 
box  several  hours.  Arrange  for  individual  service 
on  green  leaves,  placed  on  a  fancy  plate,  allowing 
seven  cubes  to  each  portion.  If  leaves  are  not  at 
hand,  serve  in  champagne  glasses. 

Sherry  Dressing.  —  Mix  one-half  cup  sugar,  one- 
half  cup  Sherry  wine,  two  tablespoons  sloe  gin  and  a 
few  grains  salt.  Let  stand  until  sugar  is  dissolved. 
The  sloe  gin  may  be  omitted. 

Canteloupe  Supreme 

Wipe  canteloupes,  cut  in  halves  crosswise,  remove 
seeds  and  stringy  portion  and  shape  into  balls,  using 
a  French  potato  ball  cutter.  Arrange  in  double  coupe 
or  grape  fruit  glasses  (having  crushed  ice  in  outer 
glass),  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  pour  over  each  one- 
fourth  teaspoon  maraschino.  If  a  more  elaborate 
coupe  is  desired,  arrange  balls  in  cases  made 'from 
halves  of  orange  peel  and  serve  in  single  glasses. 

Lenox  Strawberries 

Wash,  pick  over  and  hull  strawberries.  Pour  over 
Lenox  mixture,  chill  thoroughly,  arrange  in  glasses 
and  garnish  around  edge  with  whipped  cream 
(sweetened  and  flavored  delicately  with  vanilla) 
forced  through  a  pastry  bag  and  tube. 

For  the  Lenox  mixture,  mix  juice  of  one-half 
orange,  four  tablespoons  sugar  and  one-fourth  tea- 
spoon orange  cura£oa,  allowing  this  quantity  for 
each  portion. 


PASTRY  BOATS  FILLED  WITH  FRESH  FRUIT. 


RHUBARB  CONSERVE  IN  THE  MAKING.  —  Page  390. 


•B 


HOME-MADE  JELLY  BAGS. 


FRUITS,  FRESH,  PRESERVED,  AND  CANNED       395 

Claret  Strawberries 

Prepare  and  serve  strawberries,  same  as  Lenox 
Strawberries,  using  claret  in  place  of  Lenox  mixture. 

Lemons  Cut  for  Garnishing 

Wash  and  wipe  lemons,  and  cut  in  slices  crosswise, 
sections  lengthwise,  fan-shaped  pieces,  cups  or  bas- 
kets. Decorate  with  sprigs  of  parsley,  parsley  finely 
chopped,  paprika,  canned  pimiento  (cut  in  strips  or 
fancy  shapes),  radishes  sliced,  or  red  portion  of 
radishes,  chopped  or  removed  and  cut  in  fancy 
shapes. 

Apple  Ginger 

Wipe,  quarter,  pare,  core  and  finely  chop  sour 
apples;  there  should  be  ten  cups.  Add  ten  cups  sugar, 
thin  shavings  from  the  rind  of  two  lemons,  and  two 
two-inch  pieces  of  ginger  root.  Put  in  preserving 
kettle,  bring  gradually  to  the  boiling  point  and  let 
simmer,  stirring  frequently,  until  apples  are  transpar- 
ent, the  time  required  being  from  two  and  one-half 
to  three  hours.  Great  care  must  be  taken,  otherwise 
the  mixture  will  burn.  It  is  well  to  have  the  kettle 
placed  on  an  asbestos  mat.  Turn  into  a  crock  or 
jelly  tumblers. 

Peach  Conserve 

1  pound  dried  skinned  peaches  Juice  1  lemon 

1  quart  cold  water  Juice  1  orange 

1  cup  raisins  1  whole  orange 

Yz  Ib.  English  walnut  meats  1  Ib.  sugar 


396  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

Add  cold  water  to  peaches,  cover  and  let  stand 
over  night.  In  the  morning  add  raisins,  seeded  and 
cut  in  pieces,  nut  meats,  cut  in  pieces,  fruit  juices, 
orange,  cut  in  thin  slices  (removing  seeds)  and 
sugar.  Bring  to  boiling  point  and  let  simmer  one  and 
one-quarter  hours,  stirring  occasionally  to  prevent 
burning. 

/Rhubarb  Conserve 

4  pounds  rhubarb  1  pound  seeded  raisins 

5  pounds  sugar  2  oranges 

1  lemon 

Wash  and  peel  stalks  of  rhubarb  and  cut  in  one- 
inch  pieces.  Put  in  kettle,  sprinkle  with  sugar  and 
add  raisins  and  grated  rind  and  juice  of  oranges  and 
lemon.  Mix,  cover  and  let  stand  one-half  hour. 
Place  on  range,  bring  to  boiling  point  and  let  simmer 
forty-five  minutes,  stirring  almost  constantly.  Fill 
jelly  glasses  with  mixture,  cool  and  seal. 

Plum  Gumbo 

» 

5  pounds  plums  3  oranges 

2  pounds  seeded  raisins  5  pounds  sugar 

Wipe  plums,  remove  stones  and  cut  in  pieces. 
Force  raisins  through  a  meat  chopper  or  chop. 
Wipe  oranges,  and  cut  in  thin  slices  crosswise, 
removing  seeds.  Put  fruit  in  preserving  kettle, 
add  sugar,  bring  to  boiling  point  and  let  simmer 
until  of  the  consistency  of  a  marmalade.  Fill 
jelly  glasses  with  mixture,  cool  and  seal. 


FRUITS,  FRESH,  PRESERVED,  AND  CANNED       397 

Cranberry  Conserve 

1  quart  cranberries  %  Ib.  seeded  raisins 

%  cup  cold  water  1A  Ib.  English  walnut  meats 

3i  cup  boiling  water  1  orange 

1%  Ibs.  sugar 

Pick  over  and  wash  cranberries.  Put  in  saucepan, 
add  cold  water,  bring  to  the  boiling  point  and  let 
boil  until  the  skins  break.  Force  through  a  strainer 
and  add  boiling  water,  seeded  raisins,  nut  meats, 
broken  in  small  pieces,  orange  (wiped,  thinly  sliced, 
then  cut  in  small  pieces,  removing  seeds)  and  sugar. 
Again  bring  to  the  boiling  point  and  let  simmer 
twenty  minutes. 

Spiced  Cranberry  Jelly 

1  quart  cranberries  %  inch  pieces  stick  cinnamon 

1  cup  boiling  water  24  whole  cloves 

2  cups  sugar  6  allspice  berries 
%  cup  cold  water  Few  grains  salt 

Pick  over  and  wash  berries.  Add  boiling  water 
and  let  boil  until  cranberries  are  soft.  Rub  through 
a  sieve  and  add  remaining  ingredients,  except  salt. 
Again  bring  to  the  boiling  point  and  let  simmer 
fifteen  minutes.  Add  salt,  turn  into  a  mould  and 
chill. 

Cranberry  Jelly  with  Celery 

Pick  over  and  wash  four  cups  cranberries.  Put  in 
a  stewpan  and  add  two  cups  sugar  and  one  cup  boil- 
ing water.  Bring  to  the  boiling  point  and  let  boil 
twenty  minutes ;  then  force  through  a  strainer.  When 


398  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

mixture  begins  to  thicken,  fold  in  one  and  one-half 
cups  celery,  cut  crosswise  of  stalks  in  one-eighth-inch 
slices.  Turn  into  a  mould  or  moulds  and  chill.  Re- 
move from  moulds  and  garnish  with  curled  celery. 

Raspberry  Syrup 

2  quarts  raspberries  1  quart  sugar 

%  cup  cold  water 

Pick  over  and  mash  raspberries,  sprinkle  with 
sugar,  cover  and  let  stand  over  night.  In  the  morn- 
ing add  water,  bring^lowly  to  the  boiling  point  and 
cook  twenty  minutes.  Force  through  a  double  thick- 
ness of  cheese-cloth,  again  bring  to  the  boiling 
point,  fill  small  glass  jars  to  overflow  and  adjust 
covers.  To  use  as  a  foundation  for  beverages  or 
raspberry  ice  or  for  sauces  to  accompany  hot,  cold, 
or  frozen  desserts. 


Orange  Marmalade 

3  oranges  11  cups  cold  water 

1  lemon  4  pounds  sugar 

Wipe  fruit,  cut  in  halves  crosswise;  remove  seeds 
and  put  through  a  meat  chopper.  Put  in  preserv- 
ing kettle,  add  water,  cover,  and  let  stand  twenty- 
four  hours.  Place  on  range,  bring  to  the  boiling 
point  and  let  simmer  one  and  one-half  hours.  Add 
sugar  and  again  let  stand  twenty-four  hours.  Again 
bring  to  the  boiling  point  and  let  simmer  one  and 
one-half  hours. 


('UANBKKKY    JELLY    WITH    CELERY. —  Page   397. 


MINT  JELLY,  CORN  RELISH  AND  PEACH  CONSERVE. 


FRUITS,  FRESH,  PRESERVED,  AND  CANNED       399 

Pickled  Lime  Marmalade 

12  medium-sized  green  12  selected  pickled  limes 

tomatoes  6  cups  sugar 

Wipe  tomatoes  and  drain  limes;  then  force 
through  a  meat  chopper.  Put  in  saucepan,  add 
sugar,  bring  to  the  boiling  point  and  let  simmer 
three  hours.  Turn  into  glasses  and  seaL 

Preserved  Strawberries 

Wash,  pick  over  and  hull  berries.  Poit  in  a  pre- 
serving kettle  and  add  an  equal  measure  of  sugar. 
Bring  to  the  boiling  point  and  let  boil  until  fruit 
juice  will  jell  when  a  teaspoonful  is  cooled  on  a 
saucer.  Fill  preserving  jars  and  seal. 

16 

Mint  Jelly 

Wipe  one  peck  Porter  apples,  remove  stem  and 
blossom  ends  and  cut  in  eighths.  Put  in  a  granite- 
ware  kettle  and  add  two  quarts  cold  water.  Cover, 
bring  to  the  boiling  point  and  let  simmer  until  apples 
are  soft.  Mash  in  same  kettle,  using  a  wooden  po- 
tato masher,  and  drain  through  a  coarse  sieve. 
Allow  juice  to  drip  through  several  thicknesses  of 
cheese-cloth  or  a  jelly  bag.  Return  juice  to  saucepan, 
bring  to  the  boiling  point  and  let  boil  twenty  min- 
utes; then  add  an  equal  measure  of  heated  sugar. 
Again  bring  to  the-  boiling  point  and  let  boil  five 
minutes.  Take  a  large  bunch  of  fresh  young  mint, 
wash  and  bruise  some  of  the  leaves  slightly,  by  press- 


400  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

ing  between  the  fingers.  Hold  bunch  in  hand  and 
pass  through  and  through  the  syrup,  until  the  de- 
sired strength  of  mint  flavor  is  obtained.  This 
process  takes  the  last  three  minutes  of  the  cooking. 
Add  two  tablespoons  lemon  juice  and  color  green, 
using  vegetable  green  paste.  Skim  and  turn  into 
jelly  glasses.  Put  in  a  sunny  window  and  let  stand 
twenty-four  hours.  Cover  and  keep  in  a  cool,  dry 
place. 

Rose  Geranium  Jelly 

Follow  directions  for  Mint  Jelly,  using  two  or  three 
sprays  of  rose  geranium  leaves  in  place  of  mint,  pink 
coloring  in  place  of  green,  and  omitting  lemon  juice. 


CHAPTER  XXXV 

PICKLING 

Apple  Catsup 

WIPE,  quarter,  pare  and  core  twelve  sour  apples. 
Put  in  a  saucepan,  cover  with  boiling  water, 
bring  to  the  boiling  point  and  let  simmer  until  soft, 
when  nearly  all  the  water  should  be  evaporated;  then 
rub  through  a  sieve.  To  each  quart  of  apple  pulp 
add  the  following  mixture: 

Mix  one  cup  sugar,  one  teaspoon  pepper,  one  tea- 
spoon cloves,  one  teaspoon  mustard,  two  teaspoons 
cinnamon  and  one  tablespoon  salt;  then  add  two 
finely  chopped  onions  and  two  cups  cider  vinegar. 
Bring  the  apple  pulp,  to  which  the  mixture  has  been 
added,  to  the  boiling  point  and  let  simmer  one  hour. 
Bottle,  cork  and  seal  while  hot. 

Gooseberry  Catsup 

5  pounds  gooseberries  \1A  tablespoons  cinnamon 

4  pounds  sugar  1  tablespoon  clove 

2  cups  cider  vinegar  1  tablespoon  allspice 

Pick  over,  wash  and  drain  gooseberries.  Put 
in  kettle  and  add  sugar,  vinegar  and  spices.  Bring 
to  boiling  point  and  let  simmer  two  hours.  Fill 
bottles  and  seal. 


402  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

Grape  Catsup 

Pick  over,  wash,  drain  and  remove  stems  from 
grapes.  Put  in  a  preserving  kettle,  add  cold  water  to 
barely  cover,  bring  to  the  boiling  point  and  let 
simmer  until  fruit  is  soft;  then  press  through  a  sieve, 
discarding  skins  and  seeds.  Put  ten  pounds  of  the 
fruit  pulp  in  a  preserving  kettle  and  add  five  pounds 
sugar,  two  quarts  -vinegar,  one  tablespoon  cin- 
namon, one  tablespoon  allspice,  two  tablespoons 
clove  and  one  grated  nutmeg.  Bring  to  the  boiling 
point  and  let  simmer  until  reduced  to  the  consistency 
of  a  catsup.  Fill  bottles  to  overflowing,  adjust 
stoppers  and  seal. 

Spiced  Rhubarb 

2^  pounds  rhubarb  %  cup  vinegar 

2  pounds  sugar  1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

3^  teaspoon  clove 

Wipe  rhubarb,  skin  and  cut  stalks  in  one-inch 
pieces.  Put  in  preserve  kettle,  add  remaining  in- 
gredients, bring  to  boiling  point  and  let  simmer  until 
of  the  consistency  of  a  marmalade.  Fill  jelly  glasses 
with  mixture,  cool  and  seal. 

Gooseberry  Relish 

5  cups  gooseberries  3  tablespoons  ginger 

1H  cups  raisins  3  tablespoons  salt 

1  onion  %  teaspoon  cayenne 

1  cup  brown  sugar  1  teaspoon  turmeric 

3  tablespoons  mustard  1  quart  vinegar 


PICKLING  403 

Pick  over,  wash  and  drain  gooseberries.  Add 
raisins  (from  which  seeds  have  been  removed) 
and  onion,  peeled  and  sliced.  Chop  or  force  through 
a  meat  chopper,  put  in  preserving  kettle  and  add 
sugar,  mustard,  ginger,  salt,  cayenne  and  turmeric. 
Pour  over  vinegar,  bring  slowly  to  boiling  point 
and  let  simmer  forty-five  minutes.  Strain  through 
a  coarse  sieve,  fill  bottles  with  mixture  and  seal. 

Sweet  Crabapple  Pickle 

3  pounds  crabapples  1  ^  teaspoons  cloves 

2  cups  cider  vinegar  1  ^  teaspoons  allspice  berries 

1  cup  sugar  1  ^  teaspoons  black  pepper 

1  ^  teaspoons  ginger 

Wipe  crabapples,  remove  stems  and  steam  until 
soft.  Tie  spices  in  muslin  bag,  put  in  preserving 
kettle,  add  vinegar,  sugar  and  apples,  bring  gradually 
to  boiling  point  and  let  simmer  twenty  minutes. 

Corn  Relish 

1  ^  dozen  ears  corn  2  cups  sugar 

1  small  cabbage  1  cup  flour 

1  bunch  celery  H  cup  salt 

4  onions  ^  teaspoon  mustard 

2  green  peppers  %  teaspoon  cayenne 
2  quarts  vinegar  ^  teaspoon  turmeric 

Cut  corn  from  cob.  Force  cabbage  through  a 
meat  chopper.  Separate  celery  stalks,  remove 
leaves  and  chop.  Peel  onions  and  cut  in  thin  slices. 
Wipe  peppers  and  chop.  Put  vegetables  in  preserv- 
ing kettle  and  pour  over  one-half  of  the  vinegar. 


404  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

Mix  sugar,  flour,  salt,  mustard,  cayenne  and  turmeric 
and  add  remaining  vinegar.  Combine  mixtures, 
bring  to  boiling  point  and  let  simmer  forty  minutes. 
Fill  glass  jars  and  seal. 

Spiced  Celery 

6  bunches  celery  1  teaspoon  mustard 

15  tomatoes  1  teaspoon  clove 

1  red  pepper  1  teaspoon  allspice 

2  cups  sugar  1  teaspoon  cinnamon 
2  tablespoons  salt  1  teaspoon  celery  seed 

1^2  cups  vinegar 

Cut  off  roots  and  leaves  of  celery,  separate  stalks 
and  chop.  Wipe,  peel  and  chop  tomatoes.  Wipe 
and  chop  pepper.  Mix  dry  ingredients  and  add 
vinegar.  Combine  mixtures,  put  in  preserving  kettle, 
bring  to  boiling  point  and  let  simmer  one  and  one- 
half  hours.  Fill  jars  to  overflow  and  adjust  covers. 

Souri 

Wipe  one  peck  green  tomatoes  and  cut  in  thin 
slices;  peel  one  quart  onions  and  cut  in  thin  slices. 
Sprinkle  alternate  layers  of  tomatoes  and  onions 
with  one  cup  salt.  Cover  and  let  stand  over  night. 
In  the  morning  drain  thoroughly,  put  in  a  preserv- 
ing kettle  and  add  four  green  peppers,  finely  chopped, 
six  cups  brown  sugar,  six  tablespoons  celery-seed,  six 
tablespoons  mustard-seed  and  one-half  ounce,  each, 
cloves,  stick  cinnamon  and  allspice  berries  tied  in  a 
muslin  bag.  Add  vinegar  to  just  cover  mixture, 


PICKLING  405 

bring  to  the  boiling  point  and   let    simmer   two 
hours. 

This  may  be  given  a  very  fresh  taste  by  adding  a 
small  quantity  of  celery,  cut  in  small  pieces,  when- 
ever it  is  served. 

Pepper  Relish  I 

12  green  bell  peppers  3  tablespoons  salt 

12  red  bell  peppers  2  cups  sugar 

3  onions  1  quart  vinegar 

Wipe  peppers,  cut  in  halves  lengthwise  and  remove 
seeds.  Pare  onions,  add  to  peppers  and  force  through 
a  meat-chopper.  Put  in  kettle,  cover  with  boiling 
water  and  let  stand  ten  minutes;  drain,  again  cover 
with  boiling  water,  bring  to  the  boiling  point  and  let 
stand  ten  minutes.  Drain  as  dry  as  possible,  return 
to  kettle,  add  remaining  ingredients,  bring  to  the 
boiling  point  and  let  simmer  fifteen  minutes. 

Pepper  Relish  II 

1  peck  red  peppers  2  cups  vinegar 

2  cups  cold  water  1  cup  brown  sugar 

1  cup  salt  ^  cup  white  mustard  seed 

Wipe  peppers,  cut  in  halves,  remove  seeds  and  put 
through  meat  chopper.  Put  in  kettle  and  add  water 
and  salt;  cover  and  let  stand  over  night.  In  the 
morning  drain  and  pour  over  vinegar,  sugar  and 
mustard  seed  which  have  been  brought  to  the  boiling 
point  and  boiled  two  minutes.  Fill  jars  to  overflow 
and  adjust  covers. 


406  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

Bottled  Tomato  Sauce 

12  large  tomatoes  2  onions 

3  bunches  celery  2  tablespoons  salt 

4  green  peppers  2  tablespoons  sugar 

3  cups  vinegar 

Peel  and  chop  tomatoes  and  onions,  put  in  kettle 
and  add  celery  (from  which  root  and  leaves  have 
been  removed)  and  peppers,  both  finely  chopped, 
and  remaining  ingredients.  Bring  to  boiling  point 
and  let  simmer  one  and  one-half  hours.  Fill  bottles 
with  mixture,  cork  and  seal. 

Chili  Sauce 

12  medium-sized  tomatoes          2  tablespoons  salt 
4  onions  2  tablespoons  celery  seed 

2  red  peppers  M  cup  brown  sugar 

2  cups  vinegar 

Wipe  and  peel  tomatoes  and  cut  in  one-fourth-inch 
slices,  crosswise.  Put  in  preserving  kettle  and  add 
onions,  peeled  and  chopped,  peppers,  chopped,  and 
remaining  ingredients.  Bring  to  the  boiling  point 
and  let  simmer  three  hours. 

Green  Sliced  Cucumber  Pickles 
(Uncooked) 

2  dozen  6-inch  cucumbers       1  cup  olive  oil 
2  quarts  boiling  water  %  pound  white  mustard  seed 

\y2  cups  salt  M  pound  black  mustard  seed 

6  cups  vinegar 

Wipe  and  thinly  slice  cucumbers  without  paring. 
Cover  with  a  brine,  made  of  water  and  salt,  and  let 
stand  over  night. 


PICKLING  407 

Drain  thoroughly  and  put  in  a  crock.  Mix  re- 
maining ingredients  and  pour  over  cucumbers.  Stir 

frequently. 

Piccalilli 

Yz  bushel  green  tomatoes  3  pounds  brown  sugar 

}/2  peck  green  peppers  2  pounds  white  mustard  seed 

y<t  peck  onions  6  ounces  stick  cinnamon 

2  medium-sized  cabbages  3  ounces  cloves 

1H  cups  salt  2  ounces  allspice  berries 

Vinegar 

Wash  tomatoes  and  peppers,  peel  onions  and  cut 
cabbages  in  quarters.  Put  the  vegetables,  separately, 
through  a  meat-chopper,  using  a  large  knife.  Sprin- 
kle alternate  layers  of  vegetables  with  salt,  cover  and 
let  stand  over  night.  In  the  morning  drain,  add 
sugar,  mustard  seed  and  the  remaining  spices,  tied 
in  a  bag  made  of  muslin  or  cheese-cloth.  Pour 
over  vinegar  just  to  cover  vegetables,  bring  to  the 
boiling  point  and  let  simmer  six  hours.  Remove 
spice  bag,  fill  glass  jars  with  mixture  and  adjust 
covers. 

Allerton  Pickles 

3  pints  tomato  pulp  4  tablespoons  salt 

1  cup  chopped  celery  6  tablespoons  sugar 

4  tablespoons  chopped  red      6  tablespoons  mustard  seed 

pepper  1  tablespoon  grated  nutmeg 

4  tablespoons  chopped  1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

onion  ^  teaspoon  clove 

2  cups  vinegar 

Wipe,  peel  and  chop  ripe  tomatoes;  there  should 
be  three  pints.  Add  remaining  ingredients  and  stir 


408  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

until  thoroughly  blended.  Put  in  a  stone  jar  and 
cover.  Let  stand  at  least  one  week  before  using. 
This  uncooked  mixture  will  keep  six  months. 

Chow  Chow 

Peel  one  quart  tiny  white  onions  and  add  one 
quart  small  cucumbers,  two  heads  cauliflower,  sep- 
arated into  flowerets,  and  two  green  peppers,  thinly 
sliced.  Cover  with  brine  (allowing  one  and  one-half 
cups  salt  to  two  quarts  boiling  water)  and  let  stand 
over  night.  In  the  morning  drain  thoroughly,  add 
fresh  brine,  bring  to  the  boiling  point  and  let  simmer 
until  vegetables  are  soft,  then  drain  thoroughly. 
Mix  six  tablespoons  mustard,  three  tablespoons  flour, 
one  tablespoon  curry-powder  and  two-thirds  cup 
sugar.  Moisten  to  a  smooth  paste  with  cold  vinegar, 
and  add  to  two  and  one-half  cups  vinegar,  brought 
to  the  boiling  point.  Cook,  stirring  constantly  at 
first  and  afterward  occasionally,  until  mixture 
thickens;  then  add  drained  vegetables  and  let  simmer 
ten  minutes.  Store  in  glass  jars. 

Petersham  Chow  Chow 

2  quarts  green  tomatoes  3  quarts  water 

1  bunch  celery  1  cup  flour 

6  green  peppers  8  tablespoons  mustard 

1  quart  button  onions  1  tablespoon  turmeric 

1  cauliflower  1  cup  sugar 

2  cups  salt  5  cups  vinegar 

Wipe  tomatoes  and  cut  in  eighths.  Scrape  celery 
and  cut  in  three-fourths-inch  slices,  crosswise.  Wipe 


PICKLING  409 

peppers  and  cut  in  pieces.  Peel  onions,  separate 
cauliflower  in  flowerets,  cover  with  boiling  water, 
let  boil  three  minutes  and  drain.  Mix  tomatoes, 
celery,  peppers,  onions  and  cauliflower  and  pour 
over  brine,  made  of  salt  and  water.  Let  stand  over 
night;  in  the  morning  bring  to  the  boiling  point  in 
the  same  brine  and  let  boil  until  vegetables  are  ten- 
der; then  drain.  Mix  flour,  mustard  and  turmeric 
and  add  cold  vinegar  slowly  to  make  a  smooth  paste; 
then  add  sugar  and  remaining  vinegar.  Cook  over 
hot  water  until  mixture  thickens,  stirring  constantly 
at  first  and  afterwards  occasionally.  Add  drained 
vegetables  to  mixture  and  cook  until  thoroughly 
heated. 

Mustard  Pickles 

Wipe  four  quarts  small  cucumbers,  put  in  a  pre- 
serving kettle  and  add  three  large  cucumbers,  cut  in 
pieces,  one  quart  green  tomatoes,  wiped  and  cut  in 
slices,  four  small  onions,  peeled  and  cut  in  slices,  four 
green  peppers,  wiped  and  cut  in  slices,  one  bunch  of 
celery,  chopped,  and  one  cauliflower,  separated  into 
flowerets.  Add  one  gallon  boiling  water,  to  which 
has  been  added  one  pint  salt;  cover  and  let  stand  over 
night.  In  the  morning  bring  to  the  boiling  point  and 
let  simmer  until  the  vegetables  are  tender;  then 
drain.  Mix  one  cup  flour,  one  cup  sugar,  six  table- 
spoons mustard  and  one  tablespoon  turmeric  powder; 
then  add  slowly,  while  stirring  constantly,  enough 
vinegar  to  make  a  paste.  Stir  into  two  quarts  vin- 


410  A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

egar,  brought  to  the  boiling  point,  add  two  table- 
spoons celery  seed,  and  let  boil  five  minutes.  Add 
the  drained  vegetables,  again  bring  to  the  boiling 
point  and  let  boil  fifteen  minutes. 

Dutch  Salad 

1  quart  green  tomatoes  1  small  white  cabbage 
%  cup  salt  2  cauliflowers 

2  quarts  small  pickling  9  green  peppers 

cucumbers  Boiling  water 

1  quart  small  onions  3  tablespoons  salt 

Dutch  Dressing 

Wipe  and  thinly  slice  tomatoes.  Arrange  in 
layers,  sprinkling  each  with  salt,  cover  and  let  stand 
over  night.  In  the  morning  drain  thoroughly  and 
chop.  Put  in  a  preserving  kettle  and  add  cucumbers 
chopped,  cabbage  chopped,  cauliflowers  separated 
into  flowerets  and  chopped  peppers  (from  which 
seeds  have  been  removed).  Add  boiling  water  to 
just  cover  vegetables  and  salt.  Bring  to  the  boiling 
point  and  let  simmer  until  vegetables  are  tender; 
then  drain.  Pour  over  Dutch  Dressing  and  let  sim- 
mer fifteen  minutes.  Cool  and  serve  in  jars. 

Dutch  Dressing.  —  Mix  two  cups  brown  sugar,  one 
cup  bread  flour,  one-third  cup  mustard,  one  and  one- 
half  tablespoons  salt  and  two  and  one-half  table- 
spoons turmeric.  Add  gradually,  while  stirring  con- 
stantly, two  quarts  hot  vinegar.  Bring  to  the  boiling 
point  and  let  boil  until  mixture  thickens. 


CHAPTER    XXXVI 
SUITABLE  COMBINATIONS  FOR  SERVING 

Breakfast  Menus 

Halves  of  Grape  Fruit 

Cereal  with  Sugar  and  Cream 

Corned  Beef  Tomato  Toast  a  la  Bradley 

Coffee 


Stewed  Apricots  and  Prunes 
Cereal  with  Sugar  and  Cream 

Scrambled  Eggs 

Golden  Corn  Cake 

Coffee 


Oranges 

Codfish  Cakes 

Buttered  Toast 

Doughnuts 

Coffee 


Belmont  Baked  Apples 
Cereal  with  Sugar  and  Cream 

Bacon  Curls 

Graham  Muffins 

Coffee 


412  A   NEW   BOOK  OF   COOKERY 

Baked  Bananas 

Foamy  Omelet 

Hashed  Brown  Potatoes 

Baking  Powder  Biscuit 

Coffee 


Strawberries 

Cereal  with  Sugar  and  Cream 

German  Toast 

Coffee 


Canteloupes 

Dried  Beef  with  Cream 

Rye  Popovers 

Coffee 


Family  Luncheon  Menus 

Salt  Codfish  in  Cream 
Baked  Potatoes 

Radishes 

Luncheon  Caraway  Cake 
Tea 


Mock  Bisque  Soup 

Croutons 

Griddle  Cakes  with  Maple  Syrup 
Tea 


SUITABLE   COMBINATIONS   FOR   SERVING     413 

Lamb  a  la  Breck 
Emergency  Biscuit 

Raspberry  Puffs 
,  Luncheon  Cocoa 


Macaroni,  Virginia  Style 

Southern  Pone 

Marshmallow  Gingerbread 

Milk 


Fried  Sausages  with  Apple  Rings 

Mashed  Potatoes 

Lemon  Cream  Rice 

Russian  Tea 


Chicken  Salad 

Raised  Biscuit 

Chocolate  Ice  Cream  Sodas 

Nut  Oatmeal  Cookies 


Egg  Salad 

Bread  and  Butter  Sandwiches 

Devil's  Food  Cake 

Iced  Tea 


414  A  NEW   BOOK  OF   COOKERY 

Buffet-Luncheon  Menus 

Tomato  Bouillon 
Crisp  Crackers 

Olives  Salted  Pecans 

Chicken  a  la  King  Frosted  Ham 

Finger  Rolls 

Glace  Helene  Cream  Sponge  Cake 

Luncheon  Punch 


Iced  Pimiento  Consomme 

Macedoine  Loaf 
Moulded  Salmon,  Cucumber  Sauce 

Rasped  Rolls 
Luncheon  Coffee 

Orange  Ice  Cream,  Nut  Caramel  Cake 

with  Crushed  Strawberries 

Marshmallow  Mint  Bonbons 


Formal  Luncheon  Menus 

Grape  Fruit  Coupe 

Mock  Bouillon  Bread  Sticks 

Tournadoes  of  Lamb 

Savory  Potatoes 
Glazed  Carrots  with  Peas 

Asparagus  Salad 
Toasted  Fromage  Rolls 

New  Year's  Bomb  Silver  Sponge  Cakes 

Salted  Filberts  Dipped  Cream  Mints 


I 


'. 
... 


-' 


SUITABLE  COMBINATIONS   FOR   SERVING     415 

Manhattan  Clam  Bisque 
Toasted  Triangles 

Windsor  Eggs 
Broiled  Pompano,  Cucumber  Hollandaise 

Luncheon  Rolls 

Grape  Fruit  Jelly  Salad 

Cream  Bread  Fingers 

Coupe  Majestic  Jellied  Macaroons 

Ginger  Fudge 

Family  Dinner  Menus 

Celery  and  Tomato  Puree          Imperial  Sticks 

Iroquois  Steak 
Potatoes  en  Casserole 

Lettuce  and  Pimiento  Salad,  French  Dressing 
Sally's  Bread  Pudding,  Roxbury  Sauce 


Onion  Soup 

Hollenden  Halibut 

Mashed  Potatoes 

Templeton  Stuffed  Peppers 

Raisin  Puff,  Foamy  Sauce 


Mutton  Duck 
French  Fried  Potatoes 

Spinach 

German  Tomato  Salad  Cheese  Wafers 

Fig  Custard 


416  A  NEW   BOOK   OF   COOKERY 

Appledore  Soup 
Crisp  Crackers 

Smothered  Chicken,  Swedish  Style 

Candied  Sweet  Potatoes 

Corn  Souffle 

Fruit  Tapioca 


Potage  Longchamps 

Kernels  of  Pork 

Savory  Potatoes 

Glazed  Silver  Skins 

Lettuce  and  Radish  Salad 

Cold  Pineapple  Souffle 

Formal  Dinner  Menus 

Dexter  Canapes 

Little  Neck  Clams  Brown  Bread  Sandwiches 

Filippini  Consomme          Pulled  Bread 
Radishes  Salted  Almonds 

Smelts  a  la  Guaymas 
Julienne  Potatoes 
Dressed  Cucumber 
Larded  Stuffed  English  Partridge, 
Cold  Orange  Sauce 
Jarvis  Peppers 
Carlton  Salad 
Stuffed  Mushroom  Caps 

Parfait  Amour 

Chocolate  Dipped  Candied  Orange  Peel 

Frozen  Cheese  Alexandria   Toasted  Crackers 

Cafe  Noir 


SUITABLE   COMBINATIONS   FOR   SERVING     417 

Scallop  Cocktail 

Clear  Mushroom  Soup  Mock  Cassava  Bread 

Celery  Olives 

Stuffed  Turbans  of  Flounder 
Devonshire  Saddle  of  Mutton 

Lorette  Potatoes 
Baked  Stuffed  Egg  Plant 

Club  Punch 
Delmonico  Tomatoes 

Ginger  Ale  Jelly  Salad        Devilled  Sandwiches 
Montrose  Pudding 
After  Dinner  Mints 

Liptaner  Cheese  Water  Crackers 

Cafe  Noir 


Five  o'Clock  Tea  Menus 

Commonwealth  Marmalade  Sandwiches 

Sardine  Biscuit 
Scotch  Five  o'Clock  Teas 

Russian  Tea  Hot  Marshmallow  Chocolate 

Turkish  Mint  Paste 


Honor  Sandwiches 

Marshmallow  Teas  Peanut  Bars 

Hawaiian  Five  o'Clock  Tea         Oriental  Punch 
Chocolate  Fudge 


418  A  NEW   BOOK  OF   COOKERY 

Spanish  Sandwiches  Piquante  Cheese  Crackers 

Keswick  Gingerbread 

Syracuse  Tea    Hot  Chocolate  with  Whipped  Cream 
Raisin  Opera  Caramels 


Fairmont  Sandwiches 

Cream  Wafers  Chocolate  Nut  Bars 

Jamaica  Five  o'Clock  Tea         Card  Punch 
Knickerbocker  Figs 


Cinnamon  Toast  Pimiento  Cheese  Wafers 

Pastry  Stars  Sultana  Sticks 

Five  o'Clock  Tea,  Reception  Cocoa 

Lemon  Cut  Sugar  Whipped  Cream 

Salted  Almonds 


Sunday  Night  Supper  Menus 

Chilaly 

Unsweetened  Wafer  Crackers 
Canned  Peaches  Mock  Angel  Cake 

Ginger  Ale 


Bolivia  Salad  Celery 

Salad  Rolls 
Frangipan  Cream  Pie 
Pineapple  Lemonade 


SUITABLE   COMBINATIONS   FOR   SERVING     419 

Manhattan  Scallops 

Lettuce  Sandwiches 

Lord  Baltimore  Cake 

Russian  Tea 


Scalloped  Scallops 

Pepper  Relish 

Parker  House  Rolls 

Raised  Fruit  Loaf 

Cocoa  with  Whipped  Cream 


Epicurean  Finnan  Haddie 

Brown  Bread  Sandwiches 

Moulded  Cheese  with  Bar-le-Duc  Strawberries 

Wafer  Crackers 

Moette  Punch 


INDEX 


AFTER  DINNER  MINTS,  364. 
Afternoon  Tea  Crackers,  30. 

Doughnuts,  37. 
After  Theatre  Salad,  210. 
Allemande  Sauce,  154. 
Allen  Canapes,  376. 
Allerton  Pickles,  407. 

Salad,  201. 

Almond  Pudding,  254. 
Almonds,  Burnt,  356. 
Alphonso  Potatoes,  184. 
Alumni  Punch,  11. 
Ambassadrice  Capon,  142. 
Amsterdam  Novelties,  315. 
Anchovied  Stuffed  Potatoes,  186. 
Angel  Cake,  Mock,  331. 

White  Mountain,  331. 
Anniversary  Cake,  343. 
Apple  Ball  Sauce,  391. 

Canapes,    Cream   Sabayon 
Sauce,  246. 

Catsup,  401. 

Dumplings,  312. 

Flawn,  310. 

Ginger,  395. 
Apples,  Belmont  Baked,  391. 

Baked,  in  Casserole,  391. 
Apricot    Sandwiches,    Roxbury 

Sauce,  247. 
Apricots   and   Prunes,   Stewed, 

392. 

Armandine  Punch,  301. 
Artichokes,  French,  Vinaigrette 
Sauce,  161. 

Jerusalem.  161. 
Asparagus,  Arlington,  161. 

Mousselaine,  162. 

Salad,  I,  200. 

Salad,  II,  201. 
Aspic,  Lobster  in,  240. 

Macedoine  in,  237. 

Moulded  Fish  in,  239. 

Stuffed  Eggs  in,  61. 
Astoria  Salad  Dressing,  218. 


BACON  CURLS,  135. 
Baked  Blue  Fish  a  la  Muisset, 
94. 

Cucumbers,  Stuffed,  168. 
Egg  Plant,  169. 
Egg  Plant,  Stuffed,  169. 
Eggs    with    Pimiento    Po- 
tatoes, 53. 

Halibut,  Swedish  Style,  88. 
Hominy,    Southern    Style, 

41. 
Larded  Liver,  Claret  Sauce, 

116. 
Macaroni     wtth     Chipped 

Beef,  42. 

Macaroni  with  Peanut  But- 
ter, 43. 

Potato  Apples,  185. 
Rarebit,  48. 
Shad,  Roe  Sauce,  97. 
Baking  Powder  Crust,  141. 
Banana  Pie,  306. 
Pudding,  251. 
Salad,  208. 
Bars,  Chocolate  Nut,  324. 

Peanut,  321. 

Bavarian  Veal  Chops,  125. 
Beans,  Lima,  Fermiere,  162. 
Beef,  107-119. 

-Canadian  Meat  Pie,  114. 
Cannelon  of,  113. 
Casserole  of,  115. 
Cold  Roast,  a  la  Shapleigh, 

116. 
Corned,  Tomato  Toast  a  la 

Bradley,  118. 
Fillet   of,    a    la    Newport, 

111. 

Fillet  of,  Larded,  110. 
Hungarian  Goulasch,  111. 
Pot  Roast,  112. 
Pot  Roast,  American  Style> 

112.' 
Swedish  Meat  Balls,  114. 


422 


INDEX 


Tenderloins  alaWright,  109. 

Tournadoes  of,  109. 
Beefsteak,  Iroquois,  107. 

Planked  Rump,  108. 

Planked  Sirloin,  109. 

Smothered  Round,  108. 

Steven,  107. 

Belmont  Baked  Apples,  391. 
Bearnaise  Sauce  I,  157. 

Sauce  II,  158. 

Berkshire    Chocolate    Frosting, 
348. 

Cornstarch  Pudding,  265. 

Soup,  65. 
Beverages,  5-13. 
Birthday  Cake,  343. 

For  three-year-old,  331. 
Biscuits,  Cheese,  30. 

Sardine,  30. 

Sultana,  29. 
Bisque,  Capucine  Oyster,  75. 

Corinthian  Clam,  76. 

Corn  Mock,  64. 
Bread  Pudding,  Caramel,  250. 

Pudding,    Cold    Chocolate, 
269. 

Pudding,  Sally's,  250. 

Pulled,  78. 

Sauce,  49. 

Southern  Spoon  Corn,  27. 

Swedish  Wreaths,  24. 
Brioche  Cakes,  Holland,  20. 
Brussels   Sprouts   with   Celery, 
162. 

with  Chestnuts,  163. 
Buns,  Hot  Cross,  23. 

Russell,  22. 
Burnt  Almonds,  356. 
Butter  Frosting,  Chocolate,  349. 
Coffee,  349. 

Scotch,  359. 

Filling,  309. 
Pie,  309. 

Taffy,  359. 

To  Measure,  2. 
Buttered    Eggs   a   la   Roberts, 

54. 
Butterfly  Cake,  339. 

Canapes,  377. 

Rolls,  17. 
Buttermilk  Frosting  349. 

Griddle  Cakes,  34. 

CABBAGE,  Smothered,  163. 
Cabinet  Pudding,  Peach,  275. 


Cake,  328-344. 

Angel,  Mock,  331. 

Angel,    White     Mountain, 

331. 

Anniversary,  343. 
Birthday,  343. 

For  three-year-old,  33 1 . 
Butterfly,  339. 
Chocolate     Walnut     Loaf, 

337. 

Delia's  Sponge,  328. 
Devil's  Food,  335. 
Fillings  and  Frostings,  345- 

354. 

Florida  Nut,  338. 
Fruit,  332. 
Fudge,  336. 
Gold,  337. 
Gold,      Mrs.      Raymond's, 

337. 

Grandmother's  Pound,  342. 
Grant,  332. 
Gratan  Mocha,  329. 
Lady  Baltimore,  340. 
Littleton  Spider  Corn,  28. 
Lord  Baltimore,  341. 
Potato  Caramel,  336. 
Potato  Flour,  333. 

Sponge,  328. 
Princeton  Orange,  338. 
Priscilla,  335. 
Prize,  334. 
Raised  Loaf,  333. 
Silver,  339. 
Vienna,  329. 

Wedding,  Ornamented,  344. 
White  Fruit,  340. 
Cakes,  Cheese,  50. 

Chinese  Tea,  325. 
Chocolate  Nut  Bars,  324 
Christmas,  334. 
Flume  Flannel,  21. 
Holland  Brioche,  20. 
Marshmallow  Tea,  324. 
Meat,  145. 
Peanut  Bars,  321. 

Macaroons,  323. 
Richmond  Corn,  167. 
Sally  Lund  Tea,  22. 
Scotch  Five  o'Clock  Teas, 

324. 

Silver  Sponge,  330. 
Sultana  Sticks,  323.' 
Tea,  21. 
Calf's  Brains  a  la  York,  118. 


INDEX 


423 


Liver  a  la  Beque,  117. 

Baked,  Larded,  116. 
California     French      Dressing, 

212. 

Cambridge  Sauce,  259. 
Campestris  Salad,  206. 
Canapes  a  la  Rector,  379. 

Allen,  376. 

Butterfly,  377. 

Clam,  I,  375. 

Clam,  II,  376. 

Danish,  373. 

Dexter,  373. 

Finnan  Haddie,  378. 

Fish,  376. 

Fish,  Smoked,  375. 

Horn  of  Plenty,  379. 

Italian,  374. 

Plaza,  374. 

St.  Patrick's  Caviare,  379. 

St.  Valentine's,  374. 

Washington,  378. 
Candied   Grape   Fruit   Peel,    I, 
369. 

Grape  Fruit  Peel,  II,  369. 

Orange     Peel,      Chocolate 
Dipped,  370. 

Sweet  Potatoes,  191. 
Candy  Baskets  of  Glace  Straw- 
berries, 370. 

Stretched  Molasses,  357. 

Peanut,  358. 

Violets,  366. 
Cannelon  of  Beef,  113. 
Cantaloupe  Supreme,  394. 
Capon,  Ambassadrice,  142. 
Caramel  Bread  Pudding,  250. 

Filling,  345. 

Frosting,  351. 

Caramels,    Chapin    Chocolate, 
359. 

Chocolate,  Nut,  360. 

Opera,  Chocolate,  360. 

Opera,  Nut,  361. 

Opera,  Raisin,  361. 

Opera,  Vanilla,  360. 

Smith  College,  361. 
Caraway  Seed  Cookies,  326. 
Card  Punch,  8. 
Carl  ton  Salad  Dressing,  217. 
Carrot  Timbales,  164. 
Carrots,    Mint     Glazed,     with 

Peas,  164. 
Casserole  of  Beef,  115. 

of  Chicken,  139. 


Potatoes  en,  182. 

Squabs  en,  148. 

Vegetables  en,  180. 
Cataldi's  Puff  Paste,  306. 
Catsup,  Apple,  401. 

Gooseberry,  401. 

Grape,  402. 
Cauliflower  Allemande,  165. 

Mousselaine,  165. 

Polonaise,  165. 

Caviare  Canapes,  St.  Partick's, 
379. 

Rissolettes,  377. 

Sandwiches,  383. 
Celery  and  Tomato  Puree,  65. 

Brussels  Sprouts  with,  162. 

Salad,  Bonne  Femme,  200. 

Spiced,  404. 

with  Caviare,  372. 

with  Roquefort,  372. 
Cereal,  Cheese,  and  Vegetarian 

Dishes,  38-52. 
Champagne  Cup,  12. 

Punch,  13. 
Chantilly  Mousse,  295. 

Potatoes,  183. 
Chard,  Swiss,  166. 
Charlotte,  Plombiere,  299. 

Russe,  276. 
Cheese  and  Apple  Salad,  206. 

and     Pepper     Croquettes, 
220. 

Biscuits,  30. 

Cakes,  50. 

Crackers,  Piquante,  46. 

Croquettes,  Wellington,  50. 

Custard,  Bread  Sauce,  49. 

Custard    Timbales,    Bread 
Sauce,  221. 

Frozen,  Alexandra,  45. 

Laptaner,  44. 

Moulded,   with   Bar-le-duc 
Strawberries,  45. 

Shapleigh  Luncheon,  48. 

Souffle,  49. 

Sticks,  Parmesan,  51. 

Walnut  Deceits,  46. 
Cherry  Moss,  273. 

Nut  Salad,  205. 
Chestnut  Soup,  Cream,  69. 
Chiccory    and     Celery     Salad, 

194. 
Chicken  a  la  Cadillac,  144. 

a  la  King,  228. 

and  Liver  Timbales,  230. 


424 


INDEX 


and   Mushroom   Timbales, 
230. 

Boned  Planked,  142. 

Cream  Sandwiches,  383. 

Croquettes,         Macedoine, 
226. 

Delmonico's  Devilled,  140. 

Eclairs     of,      Mayonnaise, 
226. 

en  Casserole,  139. 

Guinea,  Larded  Breasts  of, 
149. 

Gumbo,  68. 

Knickerbocker  Supreme  of, 
143. 

Moulded  Jellied,  143. 

Paprika,  140. 

Pie,  Country  Style,  141. 

Rechauffe,  229. 

Salad,  Mock,  211. 

Smothered,   Swedish  Style, 

139. 

Chiffonade  Dressing,  214. 
Chilaly,  47. 
Chili  Sauce,  406. 
Chinese  Tea  Cakes,  325. 
Chocolate  Bread  Pudding,  Cold, 
269. 

Butter  Frosting,  349. 

Caramels,  Chapin,  359. 

Caramels,  Nut,  360. 

Caramels,  Opera,  360. 

Caramels,  Stretched,  362. 

Custard  Pie,  308. 

Doughnuts,  35. 

Egg  and  Milk  Shake,  6. 

Hot  Marshmallow,  7. 

Ice  Cream  Frosting,  351. 

Ice  Cream  Soda,  7. 

Marshmallow  Fudge,  363. 

Mint  Coupe,  299. 

Nut  Bars,  324. 

Pate  a  Choux  Rings,  326. 

Sauce,  Hot,  257. 

Syrup,  6. 

Walnut  Loaf  Cake,  337. 

Walnut  Wafers,  325. 
Chop  Suey,  228. 
Chops,  Bavarian  Veal,  125. 

Lamb  a  la  Rector,  122. 
Reforme,  120. 
Spanish,  Truffle  Sauce, 

120. 

Chow  Chow,  408. 
Christmas  Cakes,  334. 


Chutney  Dressing,  213. 

Mayonnaise,  214. 
Cincinnati  Coffee  Bread,  19. 
Cinkites,  327. 
Cinnamon  Toast,  33. 
Clam  Bisque,  Corinthian,  76. 
Manhattan,  76. 

Canapes  I,  375. 

Canapes  II,  376. 
Claret  Cup,  12. 

Strawberries,  395. 
Club  Indian  Pudding,  249. 

Punch,  282. 
Cocktail,  Grape  Fruit,  295. 

Oyster,  Sherry,  79. 

Sardine,  372. 

Scallop  I,  81. 

Scallop  II,  81. 
Cocoa  Egg  Nog,  7. 

Frosting,  349. 
Cocoanut  Coffee  Frosting,  352. 

Fluffs,  317. 
Codfish,  Gloucester  Salt,  104. 

Spanish,  105. 
Coffee  Butter  Frosting,  349. 

Caramel  Parfait,  290. 

Charlotte  Baskets,  277. 

Confectioners'        Frosting, 
348. 

Ice  Cream,  283. 

Sponge,  272. 

Cognac  Pear  Coupe,  298. 
Cold  Desserts,  265-280. 
Columbia      French      Dressing, 

213. 

Compote,  Peach,  219. 
Condensed  Milk  Bread,  14. 
Conde,  Pear,  219. 
Confections,  355-371. 

After  Dinner  Mints,  364. 

Bonbons,     Marshmallow 
Mint,  366. 

Burnt  Almonds,  356. 

Butter  Scotch,  359. 

Butter  Taffy,  359. 

Candy  Baskets,  370. 

Candy  Violets,  366. 

Caramels,    Chapin    Choco- 
late, 359. 

Nut  Chocolate,  360. 
Opera,  Chocolate,  360. 
Nut,  361. 
Raisin,  361. 
Vanilla,  360. 
Smith  College,  361. 


INDEX 


425 


Stretched     Chocolate, 

362. 

Corn  Balls,  Popped,  357. 
Crystal  Cups,  368. 
Crystallized   Mint   Leaves, 

369. 

Devilled  Raisins,  356. 
Dipped  Cream  Mints,  366. 
Double  Decker,  364. 
Figs,  Knickerbocker,  357. 

Steamed,  356. 
Fondant,  365. 
Fudge,  363. 

Chocolate    Marshmal- 

low,  363. 

Peanut  Butter,  363. 
Macaroon  Baskets,  371. 
Macaroons,  Jelly,  355. 
Mints,  Cream,  Dipped,  366. 
Molasses  Candy,  Stretched, 

357. 
Molasses    Peanut    Candy, 

358. 
Molasses  Squares,  Walnut, 

358. 
Penuche,  Peanut,  362. 

Mexican,  362. 
Popped  Corn  Balls,  357. 
Prunes,  Stuffed,  356. 
Salted  Filberts,  355. 
Turkish  Delight,  367. 
Mint  Paste,  367. 
Conserve,  Cranberry,  397. 
Peach,  395. 
Rhubarb,  396. 

Consomme,,Chicken  and  Oyster, 
71. 

Du  Barry,  71. 
Filippini,  71. 
Iced  Pimiento,  73. 
Japonnaise,  74. 
Montmorency,  72. 
Tillyprone,  73. 
Cookies,  Caraway  Seed,  326. 
Molasses,  Sour  Cream,  320. 
Oatmeal,  Nut,  321. 
Corn   Bread,   Southern  Spoon, 
27. 

Cake,  Littleton  Spider,  28. 

Virginia,  26. 
Cakes,  Richmond,    167. 
Escalloped,  166. 
Meal  Crisps,  27. 
Mock  Bisque  Soup,  64. 
Oysters,  167. 


Relish,  403. 

Souffle,  168. 

Sticks,  Forest  Hall,  27. 

Toast,  167. 
Corned  Beef  Tomato  Toast  a  la 

Bradley,  118. 
Coupe,  Caruso,  297. 

Chocolate  Mint,  299. 

Cognac  Pear,  298. 

Grape  Fruit,  393. 

Hamburg  Grape,  296. 

Louisiana,  298. 

Majestic,  296. 

Moquin,  295. 

Pineapple,  296. 

Rector  Leaf,  393. 

Suzanne,  297. 
Crab    and    Mushroom    Vol-au- 

vent,  233. 
Crab  Meat  Mornay,  86. 

Urzini,  86. 

Crabapple  Pickle,  Sweet,  403. 
Crabs,  Oyster,  Bearnaise,  224. 

Ravigote,  87. 
Cracker  Stuffing,  151. 
Crackers,  Afternoon  Tea,  30. 

Piquante  Cheese,  46. 
Cranberry  Conserve,  397. 

Jelly,  Spiced,  397. 

with  Celery,  397. 
Cream  Bread  Fingers,  18. 

French  Dressing,  213. 

Sabayon  Sauce  I,  263. 

Sabayon  Sauce  II,  263. 

Salad  Dressing,  216. 

Wafers,  31. 

Creme  de  Menthe  Ice,  281. 
Creole  Tomatoes,  177. 
Croquettes,  Cheese  and  Pepper, 
220. 

Chicken,  Macedoine,  226. 

Hominy  and    Horseradish, 
41. 

Little  Brahmins,  40. 

Little  Ducklings,  41. 

Nut  and  Potato,  190. 

Potato  and  Spinach,  190. 
Piedmont,  190. 

Rice,  Cheese  Sauce,  39. 

Wellington  Cheese,  50. 
Crossett  Rolls,  17. 
Croutons,  Hominy,  78. 
Crystal  Cups,  368. 
Crystallized  Mint  Leaves,  369. 
Cucumber  Cups,  195. 


426 


INDEX 


Dressed,  195. 

Hollandaise,  157. 

Jelly,  169. 

Pickles,  406. 

Stuffed,  Baked,  168. 
Cup,  Champagne,  12. 

Claret,  12. 

Ginger  Ale,  11. 

Sauterne,  12. 
Cups,  Crystal,  368. 

Cucumber,  195. 
Currant  Loaf  Bread,  14. 
Custard,  Cheese,  49. 

Danish,  267. 

Egg,  Bread  Sauce,  59. 

Fig,  266. 

French,  Baked,  267. 

Ginger,  268. 
Cutlets,  Egg,  56. 

of  Ham,  Alexandria,  234. 

DANISH  CANAPES,  373. 

Custard,  267. 
Dearborn  Sauce,  261. 
Deerfoot  Potatoes,  187. 

Shirred  Eggs,  55. 
Delmonico  Tomatoes,  178. 
Delmonico's  Devilled  Chicken, 

140. 

Denver  Cream  Salad  Dressing, 
214. 

Sauce,  261. 
Desserts,  Cold,  265-280. 

Frozen,  281-303. 
Devilled  Oysters  on  Half  Shells, 
80. 

Raisins,  356. 

Sandwiches,  382. 
Devil's  Food  Cake,  335. 
Devonshire  Pie,  310. 

Saddle  of  Mutton,  123. 
Dinner  Salad,  202. 
Dipped  Cream  Mints,  366. 
Dixie  Salad,  200. 
Double  Decker  Candy,  364. 
Doughnuts,  Afternoon  Tea,  37. 

Cheap,  34. 

Chocolate,  35. 

Health  Food,  36. 

Raised,  36. 

Sour-milk,  35. 
Dream  Sandwiches,  383. 
Dresden  Sandwiches,  247. 
Dressed  Cucumber,  195. 
Dutch  Salad,  410. 


EASTER  SALAD,  201. 

East  India  Sandwiches,  386. 

Egg  and  Milk  Shake,  6. 

Pimiento  Timbales,  59. 
Egg  Custards,  Bread  Sauce,  59. 
Egg  Cutlets,  56. 
Egg  Nog,  Cocoa,  7. 
Egg  Plant,  Baked  Stuffed,  169. 

Turque,  170. 
Eggs,  53-63. 

a  la  Benedict,  54. 
a  la  Victoria,  59. 
Baked,  with  Pimiento  Po- 
tatoes, 53. 

Buttered,  a  la  Roberts,  54. 
Chaudfroid,        Alexandria, 

221. 

Creamed,  with  Sardines,  60. 
Cutlets,  Alexandria,  234. 
Deerfoot  Shirred,  55. 
en  Surprise,  221. 
Florentine,  62. 
Florentine,    in    Casseroles, 

55. 

French  Poached,  53. 
Jellied  French  Poached,  62. 
Molet  Chasseur,  56. 
Omelet  a  la  Columbia,  57. 
Omelet,  Japanese  Lobster, 
58. 

Savoyarde,  58. 
Soubise,  57. 
Scrambled,  New  York  Style, 

54. 

Snow,  246. 
Stuffed  in  Aspic,  61. 
Windsor,  61. 
Emergency  Drop  Muffins,  25. 

Puddings,  245. 
English  Dumplings,  33. 

Partridge,  Larded  Stuffed, 

148. 

Patties,  233. 
Entrees,  219-245. 

Calf's    Brains    a    la   York, 

118. 

Chaudfroid    Eggs    Alexan- 
dria, 221. 

Cheese    and    Pepper    Cro- 
quettes, 220. 

Cheese    Croquettes,     Wel- 
lington, 50. 
Cheese   Custard   Timbales, 

221. 
Cheese  Souffle,  49. 


INDEX 


427 


Chicken  &  la  Cadillac,  144. 

Chicken  a  la  King,  228. 

Chicken   and  Liver  Tim- 
bales,  230. 

Chicken     and     Mushroom 
Timbales,  230. 

Chicken  Croquettes,  Mace- 
doine,  226. 

Chicken,  Eclairs  of,  Mayon- 
naise, 226. 

Chicken  Rechauffe,  229. 

Chop  Suey,  228. 

Crab  and  Mushroom  Vol- 
au-Vent,  233. 

Crab  Meat  Mornay,  86. 
Urzini,  86. 

Cutlets  of  Fish,  Epicurean, 
102. 

Cutlets  of  Ham,  Alexandria, 
234. 

Eclairs  of  Chicken,  Mayon- 
naise, 226. 

Eggs  en  Surprise,  221. 

English  Patties,  233. 

Epicurean  Bouchees,  235. 

Finnan  Haddie,  Epicurean, 
101. 

Game  Mousse,  Sauce  Bigar- 
rade,  149. 

Ham    Mousse,    Epicurean 
Sauce,  234. 
Timbales,  231. 

Hampden   Halibut  en  Co- 
quilles,  225. 

Lenox  Rarebit,  47. 

Lobster  Boats,  225. 
in  Aspic,  240. 

Lobster,  Planked  Live,  85. 
Spanish,  in  Casseroles, 
84. 

Macedoine  in  Aspic,  237. 
Loaf,  227. 

Mock  Sweetbreads,  131. 

Moulded  Fish  in  Aspic,  239. 

Mushroom    Caps    Stuffed, 
222. 

Oyster  and   Shrimp   New- 
burg,  224. 

Oyster    Crabs,    Bearnaise, 
224. 

Oysters  Devilled  on    Half 
Shells,  80. 

Louisiane,  80. 
Norfolk,  79. 

Peach  Compote,  219. 


Pear  Conde,  219. 
Salmon  Mayonnaise,  232. 
Salmon     Souffle,     Spanish 

Sauce,  105. 

Scalloped  Scallops,  83. 
Scallops  a  la  Newburg,  223. 
Bresloise,  83. 
en  Brochette,  223. 
Shrimps,  Louisiana,  222. 
Sweetbread  and  Mushroom 

Patties,  236. 
Sweetbread,     Glazed,     Lu- 

cullus,  237. 

Sweetbreads  a  la  Root,  128. 
Sweetbreads,    Huntington, 
236. 

Monroe,  129. 
South  Park,  129. 
Waldorf,  130. 
Traymore  Timbales,  231. 
Tongue,    Stuffed    Smoked, 

241. 

Turkey,  Boned,  242. 
Veal  Timbales,  229. 
Epicurean  Bouchees,  235. 
Finnan  Haddie,  101. 
Fish  Cutlets,  102. 
Sauce,  156. 

FAIRMONT  SANDWICHES,  384. 

Family  Paste,  304. 

Fats,  to  Measure,  2. 

Fig  Custard,  266. 

Figs,  Knickerbocker,  357. 

Steamed,  356. 

Stuffed,  47. 
Filberts,  Salted,  355. 
Fillet  of  Beef  a  la  Newport,  111. 

Larded,  110. 

Fillets    of    Flounder    in    Paper 
Cases,  95. 

Halibut    a    la    Hollanden, 
91. 

Halibut,  Moulded,  Rolled, 
98. 

Lamb,  Sauted,  121. 

Sole,  Marguery,  96. 

St.  Malo,  95. 

Finnan      Haddie,      Caledonian 
Style,  100. 

Canapes,  378. 

Epicurean,  101. 

Savory,  101. 
Filling,  Butter  Scotch,  309. 

Caramel,  345. 


428 


INDEX 


Chocolate  Mocha,  330. 

Frangipan  Cream,  346. 

Fruit  and  Nut,  341. 

Fruit  Cream,  346. 

Mocha,  330. 

Orange,  347. 

Praline  Cream,  346. 

Syracuse,  347. 

White    Mountain    Cream, 

345. 
Fish,  79-106. 

Canapes,  376. 

Moulded  in  Aspic,  239. 
Fisherman's  Haddock,  87. 
Five  o'Clock  Tea,  Hawaiian,  5. 

Jamaica,  6. 

Lemon  Cut  Sugar  for,  5. 

Orange  Cut  Sugar  for,  5. 

Syracuse,  6. 

Flemish  Beauty  Salad,  202. 
Florentine  Eggs,  55. 
Florida  Nut  Cake,  338. 
Florodora  Sauce,  262. 
Flounder,   Stuffed  Turbans  of, 

94. 

Flume  Flannel  Cakes,  21. 
Fondant,  365. 
Forcemeat,  Halibut,  99. 

Salmon,  99. 

Tongue  and  Chicken,  242. 
Fort  Lincoln,  133. 
Frangipan  Cream,  346. 

Cream  Pie,  310. 
Frappe,  Grape  Fruit,  282. 
French  Artichokes,  Vinaigrette 
Sauce,  161. 

Meringues,  327. 

Prune  Sandwiches,  387. 
Fricandeau  of  Liver,  117. 
Fried  Bread,  20. 

Potato  Curls,  187. 
Dots,  188. 

Potatoes,  Bourgoyne,  189. 
French,  187. 

Salt  Pork,  Country  Style, 
134. 

Scallops  a  la  Huntington, 
84. 

Smelts,  Britannia,  103. 
Frosted  Ham,  136. 
Frostings,  Berkshire  Chocolate, 
348. 

Buttermilk,  349. 

Caramel,  351. 

Chocolate  Butter,  349. 


Ice  Cream,  351. 

Cocoa,  349. 

Cocoanut  Coffee,  352. 

Coffee  Butter,  349. 

Confectioners',  348. 

Fudge,  350. 

Almond,  350. 

Ice  Cream,  341. 

Mocha,  348. 

Orange,  351. 

Ornamental,  353. 

Oscars',  353. 

Portsmouth,  347. 

Quality,  352. 

Sultana  Nut,  350. 
Frozen  Cheese  Alexandra,  45. 

Desserts,  281-3Q3. 

Orange  Whip,  300. 
Fruit  and  Ginger  Ale  Salad,  209. 

Cake,  332. 

Cake,  White,  340. 

Cream  Filling,  346. 

Juice,  Iced,  8. 

Punch       with       Whipped 
Cream,  10. 

Salad  Dressing,  215. 

Tapioca,  248. 
Fruits,    Fresh,    Preserved    and 

Canned,  391-401. 
Fudge,  363. 

Almond  Frosting,  350. 

Cake,  336. 

Chocolate      Marshmallow, 
363. 

Frosting,  350. 

Peanut  Butter,  363. 


GAME,  146-150. 

Mousse,  149. 
Gems,  Rye  Breakfast,  26. 
Geranium,  Rose,  Jelly,  400. 
German  Caraway  Bread,  15. 

Loaf,  137. 

Punch,  9. 

Sandwiches,  385. 

Tomato  Salad,  197. 
Ginger  Ale  and  Fruit  Salad,  209. 

Cup,  11. 

Gingerbread,  Cookies  and  Wa- 
fers, 319-327. 

Keswick,  319. 

Marshmallow,  319. 

Shubert,  320. 
Ginger  Custards,  368. 


INDEX 


429 


Sponge,  Steamed,  252. 
Glace  Helene,  288. 
Glazed     Sweetbread     Lucullus, 

237. 

Gloucester  Salt  Codfish,  104. 
Gold  Cake,  337. 

Mrs.  Raymond's,  337. 
Good  Luck  Salad,  194. 
Gooseberry  Catsup,  401. 

Relish,  402. 
Graham  Bread,  Quick,  31. 

Raised  Loaf,  15. 
Grandmother's     Pound     Cake, 

342. 

Grant  Cake,  332. 
Grape  Fruit  a  la  Russe,  392. 

Coupe,  393. 

Frappe,  282. 

Jelly  Salad,  207. 

Peel,  Candied,  369. 
Gratan  Mocha,  329. 
Griddlecakes,  Buttermilk,  34. 
Guinea  Chicken,  Larded  Breasts 
of,  149. 

HADDOCK  X  LA  METROPOLE,  92. 

Baked  Stuffed,  a  la  Preston, 
93. 

Fisherman's,  87. 
Halibut  a  la  Suisse,  89. 

Baked,  Swedish  Style,  88. 

Fillets  of ,  a  la  Hollanden,  91 . 

Fillets     of,      Rolled      and 
Moulded,  98. 

Forcemeat,  99. 

Hampden  en  Coquilles,  225. 

Huntington,    Sauce    Verte, 
92. 

Loomis,  90. 

Petite,  Lobster  Sauce,  97. 

Shattuck,  89. 

Veronique,  89. 
Ham  a  la  Van  Voast,  135. 

Cutlets  of,  Alexandria,  234. 

Frosted,  136. 

Mousse,  Epicurean  Sauce, 
234. 

Roast,  Cider  Sauce,  136. 

Timbales,  231. 
Hamburg  Grape  Coupe,  296. 
Hawaiian  Five  o'Clock  Tea,  5. 
Health  Food  Doughnuts,  36. 
Heliofolis  Salad,  199. 
Henri  Apricot  Ice  Cream,  287. 
Hollandaise,  Cucumber,  157. 


Horseradish,  156. 

Mock,  156. 

Holland  Brioche  Cakes,  20. 
Hominy  and  Horseradish  Cro- 
quettes, 41. 

Baked,  Southern  Style,  41. 

Croutons,  78. 
Honeycomb  Pudding,  254. 
Honor  Sandwiches,  382. 
Horn  of  Plenty  Canapes,  379. 
Hors-d'(Euvres,  372-380. 
Horseradish    Cream    Dressing, 
215. 

Hollandaise,  156. 
Hot  Chocolate  Sauce,  257. 

Cross  Buns,  23. 

Marshmallow  Chocolate,  7. 

Puddings,  245-256. 
Hungarian  Goulasch,  111. 
Huntington  Halibut,  92. 

Salad  I,  197. 

Salad  II,  207. 

Sweetbreads,  236. 

ICE  CREAM,  Chocolate,  299. 
Coffee,  283. 
Frosting,  341. 

Chocolate,  351. 
Henri  Apricot,  287. 
Lighted,  294. 
Marshmallow,  286. 
Mint,  299. 
Normandy,  285. 
Praline,  286. 
Prune,  284. 
Quince,  284. 
Soda,  Chocolate,  7. 
Strawberry  I,  284. 
Strawberry  II,  285. 
Strawberry     en     Surprise, 

293. 
Ice  Creams  with  Ices. 

Bombe  Mousselaine,  288. 

New  Year's,  292. 

Supreme,  289. 

with  Mint  Balls,  295. 
Coupe  Caruso,  297. 

Chocolate  Mint,  299. 

Cognac  Pear,  298. 

Grape  Fruit,  393. 

Hamburg  Grape,  296. 

Louisiana,  298. 

Majestic,  296. 

Moquin,  295. 

Pineapple,  296. 


430 


INDEX 


Suzanne,  297. 
Frozen  Orange  Whip,  300. 
Glace  Helene,  288. 
Marron  Plombiere,  292. 
Mousse  Chantilly,  295. 
Parfait  Amour  Strawberry, 
290. 

Caramel,  Coffee,  290. 
Marron,  302. 
Pistachio,  302. 
Pineapple  Marquise,  301. 
Pudding,  Montrose,  288. 

Standish,  287. 
Sherbet,  Lemon  Cream,  283. 
Orange  Cream  I,  282. 
Orange  Cream  II,  283. 
Iced  Fruit  Juice,  8. 

Pimiento  Consomme,  73. 
Ices,  Armandine  Punch,  301. 
Club  Punch,  282. 
Creme  de  Menthe,  281. 
Grape  Fruit  Frappe,  282. 
Lemon,  281. 
Parfait  Amour,  300. 
Plombiere  Charlotte,  299. 
Raspberry,  281. 
Indian  Pudding,  Club,  249. 
Salad,  198. 
Salad  Dressing,  217. 
Ingredients,  Measuring,  1. 
to  Beat,  4. 
to  Combine,  3. 
to  Cut  and  Fold,  4. 
to  Stir,  4. 
Irish  Plum  Pudding,  255. 

Puff  Paste,  305. 
Iroquois  Steak,  107. 
Italian  Canapes,  374. 
Spaghetti,  43. 

JAMAICA  FIVE  O'CLOCK  TEA,  6. 
Japanese  Lobster  Omelet,  58. 
Japonnaise  Consomme,  74. 
Jarvis  Stuffed  Peppers,  174. 
Jellied  Chicken,  Moulded,  143. 

French  Poached  Egg,  62. 

Vegetable  Ring,  181. 
Jelly,  Cranberry  Spiced,  397. 

Cranberry  with  Celery,  397. 

Cucumber,  169. 

Fruit  Moulded  in,  278. 

Grape  Fruit,  207. 

Lemon,  270. 

Macaroons,  355. 

Mint,  399. 


Panache,  279. 

Rose  Geranium,  400. 

Sandwiches,  388. 
Jerusalem  Artichokes,  161. 
Joplin    Stuffed    Tomato    Salad, 

198. 

Jordan  Pudding,  265. 
Julep,  Pineapple,  10. 

KERNELS    OF    LAMB,    Currant 
Mint  Sauce,  121. 

of  Pork,  132. 
Keswick  Gingerbread,  319. 

Pudding,  270. 

Kindergarten  Sandwiches,  381. 
Knickerbocker  Figs,  357. 

Supreme  of  Chicken,  143. 

LADY  BALTIMORE  CAKE,  340. 
Lake  wood  Salad,  204. 
Laitue  Suedoise,  373. 
Lamb  a  la  Breck,  124. 
Lamb  and  Mutton,  120-125. 
Lamb  Chops  a  la  Rector,  122. 

Chops,  Reforme,  120. 

Chops,      Spanish,      Truffle 
Sauce,  120. 

Kernels  of,   Currant  Mint 
Sauce,  121. 

Rechauffe,  123. 

Roast,  Cold,  Family  Style, 
124. 

Sauted  Fillets  of,  121. 

Tournadoes  of,  121. 
Larded      Breasts      of      Guinea 
Chicken,  149. 

Stuffed  English  Partridge, 

148. 

Lemon  Cream  Rice,  248. 
Sherbet,  283. 

Cut  Sugar,  5. 

Ice,  281. 

Lemons  Cut  for  Garnishing,  395. 
Lenox  Rarebit,  47. 

Sandwiches,  394. 
Lettuce    and    Pimiento    Salad, 

194. 

Lighted  Ice  Cream,  294. 
Lima  Beans,  Fermiere,  162. 
Lincoln  Sandwiches,  385. 
Liptaner  Cheese,  44. 
Little  Brahmins,  40. 

Ducklings,  41. 
Littleton  Spider  Corn  Cake,  28. 


INDEX 


431 


Liquids,  to  Measure,  3. 
Liver,     Baked    Larded,    Claret 
Sauce,  116. 

Calf's,  a  la  Madame  Beque, 
117. 

Fricandeau  of,  117. 
Loaf,  Chocolate  Walnut  Cake, 
337. 

Currant,  14. 

Family  White,  14. 

German,  137. 

Macedoine,  227. 

Miss  Daniel's  Meat,  137. 

Pecan  Nut,  52. 

Raised,  Graham,  15. 
Lobster  Boats,  225. 

in  Aspic,  240. 

How  to  boil,  84. 

Live,  Planked;  85. 

Live,  Planked,  with  Oysters, 
85. 

Spanish,  in  Casseroles,  84. 
Loin  of  Veal,  Allemande,  127. 
Lord  Baltimore  Cake,  341. 
Lorrette  Potatoes,  188. 
Los  Angeles  Fruit  Salad,  208. 
Luncheon  Caraway  Bread,  32. 

Cheese,  Shapleigh,  48. 

Coffee,  6. 

Punch,  8. 

MACARONI,  Baked  with  Chipped 
Beef,  42. 

Baked  with  Peanut  Butter, 
43. 

Virginia  Style,  42. 
Macaroon  French  Cream,  272. 
Macaroons,  Jelly,  355. 

Peanut,  323. 
Maoedoine  in  Aspic,  237. 

Loaf,  227. 

of  Fruit,  279. 

Sandwiches,  388. 
Manhattan  Clam  Bisque,  76. 

Muffins,  25. 

Marguerite  Squares,  314. 
Marlborough  Pie,  307. 
Marmalade,  Orange,  398. 

Pickled  Lime,  399. 
Marron  Parfait,  302. 

Plombiere,  292. 
Marshmallow,  Hot  Chocolate,  7. 

Gingerbread,  319. 

Ice  Cream,  286. 

Mint  Bonbons,  366. 


Sauce,  285. 

Teas,  324. 

Martinique    French     Dressing, 
212. 

Potatoes,  185. 
Mayonnaise  a  la  Connelly,  214. 

Chutney,  214. 

of  Oysters,  79. 

Piquante,  214. 

Meat  and  Fish  Sauces,  154-160. 
Meat  Balls,  Swedish,  114. 

Cakes,  145. 

Loaf,  Miss  Daniel's,  137. 
Menus,  411-419. 
Meringues,  French,  327. 
Mexican  Penuche,  362. 
Mince  Pie  Meat,  Mock,  306. 
Mint  Glazed  Carrots  with  Peas, 
164. 

Jelly,  399. 

Leaves,  Crystallized,  369. 
Mints,  After  Dinner,  364. 

Creamed,  Dipped,  366. 
Mocha  Filling,  330. 

Frosting,  348. 
Mock  Angel  Cake,  331. 

Bouillon,  64. 

Cassava  Bread,  77. 

Chicken  Salad,  211. 

Hollandaise  Sauce,  156. 

Mince  Pie  Meat,  306. 

Sausages,  52. 

Sweetbreads,  131. 

Turtle  Soup,  74. 
Moette  Punch,  9. 
Molasses  Candy,  Stretched,  357. 
Molasses  Cookies,  Sour  Cream, 

320. 

Monroe  Sauce,  260. 
Mont  Blanc,  316. 
Montrose  Pudding,  288. 
Moquin  Salad,  208. 
Moravian  Bread,  19. 
Moulded    Cheese   with    Bar-le- 
duc  Strawberries,  45. 

Fish  in  Aspic,  239. 

Jellied  Chicken,  143. 

Rolled  Fillets  of  Halibut, 
98. 

Spinach,  175. 
Mounded  Spinach  on  Artichoke 

Bottoms,  176. 
Mousse,  Chantilly,  295. 

Game.Sauce  Bigarrade,149. 

Ham,  Epicurean  Sauce,  234 . 


432 


INDEX 


Mousselaine  Sauce,  158. 
Mousselaine     Sauce,     Brandy, 

264. 
Muffins,  Bran,  29. 

Emergency  Drop,  25. 

Manhattan,  25. 

Oatmeal,  26. 

Tea,  25. 

Mushroom  and  Tomato  Toast, 
171. 

Caps,  Stuffed,  222. 

Soup,  Clear,  68. 
Mushrooms,  Creamed,  170. 
Mustard  Pickles,  409. 
Mutton,  Devonshire  Saddle  of, 
123. 

Duck,  122. 

NAPOLI  SPAGHETTI,  44. 
New  England  Pudding,  253. 

Stuffing,  151. 

New  Vanderbilt  Salad,  208. 
New  Year's  Bomb,  292. 
Newport  Pudding,  271. 
Norfolk  Oysters,  73. 
Normandy  Ice  Cream,  285. 
Nugget  Salad,  196. 
Nut    and    Potato    Croquettes, 
190. 

Brittle,  330. 

Chocolate  Caramels,  360. 

Loaf,  Pecan,  52. 

Oatmeal  Cookies,  321. 

Opera  Caramels,  361. 

Pastry  Rolls,  313. 
Sticks,  313. 

Wafers,  Swedish,  322. 
Nymph  Aurora,  70. 

OATMEAL  MUFFINS,  26. 

Nut  Cookies,  321. 
Ohio  Salad  Dressing,  217. 
Omelet   a  la  Columbia,  57. 

Lobster,  Japanese,  58. 

Savoyarde,  58. 

Soubise,  57. 
Onion  Farci,  172. 

Souffle,  171. 

Soup,  66. 

Onions,  Silver  Skin,  171. 
Opera  Chocolate  Caramels,  360. 

Nut  Caramels,  361. 

Raisin  Caramels,  361. 

Vanilla  Caramels,  360. 
Orange  Cake,  Princeton,  338. 


Circles,  326. 
Cream,  266. 

Sherbet  I,  282. 
Sherbet  II,  283. 
Sponge,  252. 
Cut  Sugar,  5. 
Filling,  347. 
Frosting,  351. 
Honey  Sandwiches,  387. 
Marmalade,  398. 
Peel,    Candied,    Chocolate 

Dipped,  370. 
Sauce,  Cold,  160. 
Whip,  Frozen,  300. 
Oranges,  Broiled,  on  Toast,  245. 
Oriental  Punch,  9. 
Ornamental  Frosting,  353. 
Ornamented  Wedding  Cake,344. 
Oscar's  Frosting,  353. 

Paste,  304. 

Oyster   and   Shrimp    Newburg, 
224. 

Cocktail,  Sherry,  79. 
Crabs,  Bearnaise,  224. 
Stuffing,  152. 
Oyster  Plant  with  Fine  Herbs, 

173. 

Oysters,    Bisque   of,    Capucine, 
"75. 

Corn,  167. 

Devilled,  on  Half  Shells,  80. 
Louisiane,  80. 
Mayonnaise  of,  79. 
Norfolk,  79. 

PANACHE  JELLY,  279. 

Vegetable,  181. 
Parched     Rice     with     Tomato 

Sauce,  38. 
Parfait,  Coffee  Caramel,  290. 

Marron,  302. 

Pistachio,  302. 
Parfait  Amour,  300. 

Strawberry,  290. 
Parisian  Grape  Fruit  Salad,  203. 
Parmesan  Cheese  Sticks,  51. 
Parsnips,  Sauted,  173. 
Partridge,  English  Stuffed  and 

Larded,  148. 
Paste,  Cataldi's  Puff,  306. 

Family,  304. 

Irish  Puff,  305. 

Oscar's,  304. 

Puff,  by  Measurement,  305. 
Pastry  and  Pies,  304-311. 


INDEX 


433 


Pastry  Desserts,  312-318. 

Amsterdam  Novelties,  315. 

Cocoanut  Fluffs,  317. 

Marguerite  Squares,  314. 

Mont  Blanc,  316. 

Nut  Rolls,  313. 
Sticks,  313. 

Peach  Pralines,  316. 

Pineapple  Circles,  315. 
Tartlets,  314. 

Stars,  312. 

St.  Valentine's  Hearts,  316. 

Swedish  Tea  Circles,  313. 

Venetian  Boats,  317. 
Patties,  English,  233. 

Shrimp,  235. 

Sweetbread  and  Mushroom, 

236. 

Pea  Roast,  51. 
Peach  Brandy  Sauce,  262. 

Cabinet  Pudding,  275. 

Compote,  219. 

Conserve,  395. 

Sauce,  220. 
Peanut  Bars,  321. 

Butter  Fudge,  363. 

Candy,  358. 

Macaroons,  323. 

Penuche,  362. 

Wafers,  322. 
Pear  Cond6,  219. 
Pecan  Nut  Loaf,  52. 
Penobscot  Sandwiches,  386. 
Penuche,  Mexican,  362. 

Peanut,  362. 
Pepper  Relish  I,  405. 
Pepper  Relish  II,  405. 
Peppers,  Stuffed,  Jarvis,  174. 

Templeton,  175. 

with    Fresh    Green    Corn, 

173. 

Petersham  Chow  Chow,  408. 
Petite  Halibut,  Lobster  Sauce, 

97. 

Piccalilli,  407. 

Pickle,  Sweet  Crabapple,  403. 
Pickled  Lime  Marmalade,  399. 
Pickles,  Allerton,  407. 

Chow  Chow,  408. 

Cucumber,    Green    Sliced, 
406. 

Dutch  Salad,  410. 

Mustard,  409. 

Petersham     Chow     Chow, 
408. 


Piccalilli,  407. 

Souri,  404. 
Pickling,  401-410. 
Pie,  Apple  Flawn,  310. 

Banana,  306. 

Butter  Scotch,  309. 

Canadian  Meat,  114. 

Chicken,     Country     Style, 
141. 

Chocolate  Custard,  308. 

Devonshire,  310. 

Frangipan  Cream,  310. 

Marl  borough,  307. 

Mock  Mince,  306. 

Pigeon,  147. 

Pumpkin,  308. 

Rhubarb  and  Raisin,  308. 
Pigeon  Pie,  147. 
Pimiento  Bisque,  68. 

Butter,  382. 

Cheese  Wafers,  46. 

Consomm6,  Iced,  73. 
Pineapple  Circles,  315. 

Coupe,  296. 

Jelly,  270. 

Julep,  10. 

Marquise,  301. 

Pyramids,  274. 

Sauted,  392. 

Souffle,  Cold,  273. 

Tartlets,  314. 

Piquante,      Cheese      Crackers, 
46. 

Mayonnaise,  214. 
Planked  Boned  Chicken,  142. 

Live  Lobster,  85. 

with  Oysters,  85. 

Smelts,  104. 

Steak,  Rump,  108. 

Sirloin,  109. 
Plaza  Canapes,  374. 
Plombiere  Charlotte,  299. 
Plum  Gumbo,  396. 
Poinsettia  Salad,  197. 
Pomme  Fondante,  183. 
Pompano,  Broiled,  88. 
Popovers,  Rye,  29. 
Popped  Corn  Balls,  357. 
Porcupine  Salad,  199. 
Pork,  132-138. 

Fort  Lincoln,  133. 

German  Loaf,  137. 

Kernels  of,  132. 

Little  Roast  Pig,  133. 

Roast  Crown  of,  132. 


434 


INDEX 


Salt  Fried,  Country  Style, 

134. 

Portsmouth  Frosting,  347. 
Port  Wine  Sauce,  146. 
Potage  Longchamps,  69. 
Potato  and  Egg  Salad,  210. 

Caramel  Cake,  336. 

Flour  Cake,  333 

Flour  Sponge  Cake,  328. 

Stuffing,  153. 
Potatoes,  182-193. 

a  la  Goldenrod,  184. 

a  la  Suisse,  186. 

Alphonso,  184. 

Anchovied  Stuffed,  186. 

Apples,  Baked,  185. 

Brule,  Sweet,  191. 

Candied  Sweet,  191. 

Chantilly,  183. 

Creamed       Sweet,       Club 
House  Style,  191. 

Croquettes,  Piedmont,  190. 
Potato  and  Nut,  190. 
Potato    and    Spinach, 
190. 

Deerfoot,  187. 

en  Casserole,  182. 

Flambant,  Sweet,  192. 

French  Fried,  187. 

Fried  Bourgoyne,  189. 
Curls,  187. 
Dots,  188. 

Lorrette,  188. 

Martinique,  185. 

Moulds,  185. 

Pittsburg,  183. 

Pomme  Fondante,  183. 

Princess,  188. 

Rissolee,  189. 

Sauted  Sweet,   with  Rum, 
192. 

Savory,  182. 

Scalloped  Sweet,  with  Ap- 
ples, 192. 

Spanish,  182. 

Sultan,  189. 
Pot  Roast,  112. 

American  Style,  112. 
Poultry,  139-145. 
Praline  Cream,  346. 

Ice  Cream,  286. 
Preserved  Strawberries,  399. 
Princess  Potatoes,  188. 
Princeton  Orange  Cake,  338. 
Prize  Cake,  334. 


Prune  Ice  Cream,  284. 

Pudding,  268. 
Prunes,  Stuffed,  356. 
Pudding,  Almond,  254. 

Apple  Canapes,  246. 

Apricot  Sandwiches,  247. 

Banana,  251. 

Caramel  Bread,  250. 

Club  Indian,  249. 

Dresden  Sandwiches,  247. 

Emergency,  245. 

Fruit  Tapioca,  248. 

Ginger  Sponge,  252. 

Honeycomb,  254. 

Irish  Plum,  255. 

Lemon  Cream  Rice,  248. 

Orange  Cream  Sponge,  252. 

Raisin  Puff,  253. 

Rhubarb  Tapioca,  247. 

Roxbury,  251. 

Sally's  Bread,  250. 

Snow  Eggs,  246. 

Squash,  249. 

Sterling  Fruit,  255. 
Pudding  Sauces,  257-264. 
Puddings,  Hot,  245-256. 
Puff  Paste  (by  Measurement), 
305. 

Cataldi's,  306. 

Irish,  305. 
Pulled  Bread,  78. 
Pumpkin  Pie,  308. 
Punch,  Alumni,  11. 

Armandine,  301. 

Card,  8. 

Champagne,  13. 

Club,  282. 

Fruit  with  Whipped  Cream, 
10. 

German,  9. 

Luncheon,  8. 

Moette,  9. 

Oriental,  9. 

Pineapple  Julep,  10. 

Siberian,  10. 

QUAIL,  Sauted,  a  la  Moquin,  148. 
Quality  Frosting,  352. 
Quick    Bread,     Muffins    and 
Doughnuts,  25-37. 

Graham  Bread,  31. 

Pecan  Nut  Loaf,  52. 
Quince  Ice  Cream,  284. 

RABBIT  A  LA  SOUTHERN,  147. 
Raised  Bread  Mixtures,  14-24. 


INDEX 


435 


Doughnuts,  36. 

Loaf  Cake,  333. 
Raisin  Opera  Caramels,  361. 

Puff,  253. 

Raisins,  Devilled,  356. 
Rarebit,  Baked,  48. 

Lenox,  47. 
Raspberry  Ice,  281. 

Sauce,  257. 

Syrup,  398. 
Rasped  Rolls,  16. 
Reception  Rolls,  15. 
Rector,  Canapes  a  la,  379. 

Leaf,  393. 

Potatoes,  187. 

Salad,  196. 

Red  Wine  French  Dressing,  212. 
Rhubarb  and  Raisin  Pie,  308. 

Conserve,  396. 

Spiced,  402. 

Tapioca  Pudding,  247. 
Rice  Croquettes,  Cheese  Sauce, 
39. 

Fried,  39. 

Parched,      with      Tomato 

Sauce,  38. 

Richmond  Corn  Cakes,  167. 
Rissolettes,  Caviare,  377. 
Roast  Crown  of  Pork,  132. 

Ham,  Cider  Sauce,  136. 
Rochester      Chocolate      Sand- 
wiches, 390. 

Salad,  206. 
Roe  Sauce,  159. 
Roll,  Jelly,  279. 
Rolls,  Butterfly,  17. 

Crossett,  17. 

Nut  Pastry,  313. 

Rasped,  16. 

Reception,  15. 

Toasted  Fromage,  45. 
Romaine  Salad,  202. 
Rosalie  Salad,  205. 
Rose  Geranium  Jelly,  400. 
Roxbury  Pudding,  251. 

Sauce,  259. 

Royal  Sandwiches,  386. 
Runnvmede  Salad,  209. 
Russell  Buns,  22. 
Ruthven  Salad  Cream,  216. 
Rye  Breakfast  Gems,  26. 

Popovers,  29. 

SABAYON  SAUCE,  Cream  I,  263. 
Cream  II,  263. 


Saddle  of  Mutton,  Devonshire, 

123. 
Salad,  After  Theatre,  210. 

Allerton,  201. 

Asparagus  I,  200. 

Asparagus  II,  201. 

Banana,  208. 

Campestris,  206. 

Carlton,  196. 

Celery,  Bonne  Femme,  200. 

Cheese  and  Apple,  206. 

Cherry  Nut,  205. 

Chiccory  and  Celery,  194. 

Cucumber  Cups,  195. 

Cucumber,  Dressed,  195. 

Dinner,  202. 

Dixie,  200. 

Dutch,  410. 

Easter,  201. 

Flemish  Beauty,  202. 

Fruit  and  Ginger  Ale,  209. 

German  Tomato,  197. 

Good  Luck,  194. 

Grape  Fruit  Jelly,  207. 

Heliofolis,  199. 

Huntington,  197. 

Indian,  198. 

Joplin  Stuffed  Tomato,  198. 

Lake  wood,  204. 

Lettuce  and  Pimiento,  194. 

Los  Angeles  Fruit,  20S. 

Mock  Chicken,  211. 

Moquin,  204. 

Moquin,  208. 

New  Vanderbilt,  208. 

Nugget,  196. 

Parisian  Grape  Fruit,  203. 

Peanut,  203. 

Poinsettia,  197. 

Porcupine,  199. 

Potato  and  Egg,  210. 

Rector,  196. 

Rochester,  206. 

Romaine,  202. 

Rosalie,  205. 

Runnvmede,  209. 

Shad  Roe,  211. 

Spring,  198. 

Strawberry,  205. 

Touraine  Fruit,  203. 
Salad  Dressing,  Astoria,  218. 

Carlton,  217. 

Chiffonade,  214. 

Chutney,  213. 

Cream,  216. 


436 


INDEX 


Denver  Cream,  214. 

French,  Breslin,  212. 
California,  212. 
Columbia,  213. 
Cream,  213. 
Martinique,  212. 
Red  Wine,  212. 
Tabasco,  213. 

Fruit,  215. 

Horseradish,  215. 

Indian,  217. 

Los  Angeles,  215. 

Mayonnaise  a  la  Connelly, 
214. 

Chutney,  214. 
Piquante,  214. 

Ohio,  217. 

Ruthven  Cream,  216. 

Waltham,  216. 
Salad  Dressings,  212-218. 
Salads,  194-211. 
Salmon  Forcemeat,  99. 

Mayonnaise,  232. 

Souffle,  105. 

Spiced,  105. 

Salt  Codfish,  Gloucester,  104. 
Salted  Filberts,  355. 
Salt  Pork,  Fried,  Country  Style, 

134 

Samp,'  38. 
Sandwiches,  381-390. 

Apricot,  247. 

Caviare,  383. 

Chicken  Cream,  383. 

Commonwealth       Marma- 
lade, 389. 

Devilled,  382. 

Dream,  383. 

Dresden,  247. 

East  India,  386. 

Fairmont,  384. 

French  Prune,  387. 

German,  385. 

Honor,  382. 

Horseradish,  389. 

Jelly,  388. 

Kindergarten,  381. 

Lenox,  388. 

Lincoln,  385. 

Macedoine,  388. 

Mosaic,  381. 

Orange  Honey,  387. 

Penobscot,  386. 

Rochester  Chocolate,  390. 

Royal,  386. 


Sembrich,  385. 

Spanish,  384. 

Toasted  Salad,  382. 

Waltham      Five      o' Clock 

Tea,  389. 

San  Monica  Sauce,  261. 
Sardine  Biscuits,  30. 

Cocktail,  372. 
Sardines,   Creamed  Eggs  with, 

60. 
Sauce,  Allemande,  154. 

Bearnaise  I,  157. 

Bearnaise  II,  158. 

Bigarrade,  150. 

Bread,  49. 

Brown  Mushroom,  127. 

Brown  Nut,  155. 

Chili,  406. 

Cider,  160. 

Claret,  116. 

Cold  Orange,  148. 

Cucumber         Hollandaise, 
157. 

Currant  Mint,  121. 

Devonshire,  159. 

English  Fish,  99. 

Epicurean,  156. 

Guaymas,  159. 

Horseradish      Hollandaise, 
156. 

Lobster,  97. 

Madeira,  110. 

Mock  Hollandaise,  156. 

Mousselaine,  158. 

Port  Wine,  146. 

Remoulade,  63. 

Roe,  159. 

Spanish,  154. 

Tomato,  Bottled,  406. 

Traymore,  232. 

Truffle,  120. 

Vinaigrette,  159. 

Waldorf,  155. 

Windsor,  61. 

Sauces,  Meat  and  Fish,  154-160. 
Sauces,  Pudding,  257-264. 

Brandy,  262. 

Cambridge,  259. 

Dearborn,  261. 

Denver,  261. 

Florodora,  262. 

Hot  Chocolate,  257. 

Monroe,  260. 

Mousselaine,  Brandy,  264. 

Orange,  258. 


INDEX 


437 


Peach,  220. 

Peach  Brandy,  262. 

Raspberry,  257. 

Roxbury,  259. 

Sabayon  Cream  I,  263. 

Sabayon  Cream  II,  263. 

San  Monica,  261. 

Sea  Foam,  258. 

Sherry  I,  260. 

Sherry  II,  260. 

Strawberry,  257. 

White  Wine,  263. 

Yankee,  259. 
Sausage  Stuffing,  153. 
Sausages  a  la   Maltre  d'Hdtel, 

137. 
Sauted  Fillets  of  Lamb,  121. 

Parsnips,  173. 

Pineapple,  392. 

Quail  a  la  Moquin,  148. 

Sweet  Potatoes  with  Rum, 

192. 

Sauterne  Cup,  12. 
Savory  Finnan  Haddic,  101. 

Potatoes,  182. 
Savoyarde  Omelet,  58. 
Scallop  Cocktail  I,  81. 
Scallop  Cocktail  II,  81. 
Scalloped  Scallops,  83. 

Sweet   Potatoes   with   Ap- 
ples, 192. 
Scallops  a  la  Newburg,  223. 

Bresloise,  83. 

en  Brochette,  223. 

Fried  a  la  Huntington,  84. 

Samoset,  82. 

Savoy,  82. 
Scrambled    Eggs,     New    York 

Style,  54. 

Scotch  Five  o'Clock  Teas,  324. 
Sea  Foam  Sauce,  258. 
Sembrich  Sandwiches,  385. 
Shad,  Baked,  97. 
Shad  Roe  Salad,  211. 
Shapleigh  Luncheon  Cheese,  48. 
Shattuck  Halibut,  89. 
Sherbet,  Lemon  Cream,  283. 

Orange  Cream  I,  282. 

Orange  Cream  II,  283. 
Sherry  Oyster  Cocktail,  79. 

Sauce  I,  260. 

Sauce  II,  260. 

Shrimp  and  Oyster    Newburg, 
224. 

Patties,  235. 


Shrimps,  Louisiana,  222. 
Shubert  Gingerbread,  320. 
Siberian  Punch,  10. 
Silver  Cake,  339. 

Skins,  Creamed,  171. 
Sponge  Cakes,  330. 
Smelts  a  la  Guaymas,  103. 
au  Beurre  Noir,  102. 
Fried,  Britannia,  103. 
Planked,  104. 
Veronique,  103. 
Smith  College  Caramels,  361. 
Smoked  Fish  Canapes,  375. 
Smothered  Cabbage,  163. 

Chicken,     Swedish     Style 

139. 

Round  Steak,  108. 
Snow  Eggs,  246. 
Sole,  Fillets  of,  Marguery,  96. 

St.  Malo,  95. 
Souffle,  Cheese,  49. 
Corn,  168. 
Grape  Juice,  276. 
Onion,  171. 
Pineapple,  Cold,  273. 
Salmon,  105. 
Squash,  177. 

Tomato,  Neapolitan,  179. 
Soup,  Berkshire,  65. 

Bisque,    Corinthian   Clam, 
76. 

Manhattan  Clam,  76. 

Mock  Corn,  64. 

of  Oysters,   Capucine, 

75. 

Pimiento,  68. 
Veal  Tomato,  67. 
Bouillon,  Mock,  64. 
Celery  and  Tomato  Puree, 

65. 

Chestnut,  Cream,  69. 
Chicken  Gumbo,  68. 
Consomme,    Chicken    and 
Oyster,  71. 
Dubarry,  71. 
Filippini,  71. 
Iced  Pimiento,  73. 
Japonnaise,  74. 
Montmorency,  72. 
Tillyprone,  73. 
French  Tomato,  66. 
Mock  Turtle,  74. 
Mushroom,  Clear,  68. 
Nymph  Aurora,  70. 
Onion,  66. 


438 


INDEX 


Potage  Longchamps,  69. 

Southdown,  67. 

Watercress,  Cream  of,  70. 
Soup  Accompaniments,  77-78. 
Soups,  64-77. 
Sour  Cream  Molasses  Cookies, 

320. 

Souri,  404. 

Sour-milk  Doughnuts,  35. 
Southdown  Soup,  67. 
Southern  Pone,  28. 
Southern  Spoon  Corn  Bread,  27. 
South  Park  Sweetbreads,  129. 
Spaghetti,  Italian,  43. 

Napoli,  44. 
Spanish  Codfish,  105. 

Lamb  Chops,  120. 

Lobster  in  Casseroles,  84. 

Potatoes,  182. 

Sauce,  154. 
Spiced  Celery,  404. 

Cranberry  Jelly,  397. 

Rhubarb,  402. 

Salmon,  105. 

Spider  Corn  Cake,  Littleton,  28. 
Spinach,  Moulded,  175. 

Mounded  onArtichoke  Bot- 
toms, 176. 

Soubrics  of,  176. 
Sponge  Cake,  Delia's,  328. 

Potato  Flour,  328. 
Spring  Salad,  198. 
Squabs  en  Casserole,  148. 
Squash  Pudding,  249. 

Souffle,  177. 
Standish  Pudding,  287. 
Steamed  Figs,  356. 

Ginger  Sponge,  252. 
Sterling  Fruit  Pudding,  255. 
Steven  Steak,  107. 
Stewed    Apricots    and    Prunes, 

392. 
Sticks,  Forest  Hall  Corn,  27. 

Nut  Pastry,  313. 

Parmesan  Cheese,  51. 

Sultana,  323. 
St.  Patrick's  Caviare  Canapes, 

379. 
Strawberries,  Claret,  395. 

Lenox,  394. 

Preserved,  399. 
Strawberry  Ice  Cream  I,  284. 

Ice  Cream  II,  285. 
en  Surprise,  293. 

Parfait  Amour,  290. 


Salad,  205. 

Sauce,  257. 

St.  Regis  Pudding,  278. 
Stretched  Chocolate  Caramels, 
362. 

Molasses  Candy,  357. 
Stuffed   Baked   Haddock   a   la 
Preston,  93. 

Cushion  of  Veal,  126. 

Eggs  in  Aspic,  61. 

Figs,  47. 

Mushroom  Caps,  222. 

Peppers,  Jarvis,  174. 
Templeton,  175. 

Prunes,  356. 

Smoked  Tongue,  241. 

Tomatoes,  178. 

Turbans  of  Flounder,  94. 
Stuffing,  Bread  and  Celery,  152. 

Cracker,  151. 

Fall  River,  151. 

New  England,  151. 

Oyster,  152. 

Potato,  153. 

Sausage,  153. 

Swedish,  152. 
Stuffings  for  Game  and  Poultry, 

151-153. 

St.  Valentine's  Canapes,  374. 
.      Hearts,  316. 
Sugar,  Lemon  Cut,  5. 

Orange  Cut,  5. 

Suitable  Combinations  for  Serv- 
ing, 411-419. 
Sultana  Biscuits,  29. 

Nut  Frosting,  350. 

Sticks,  323. 
Sultan  Potatoes,  189. 
Suzanne,  Coupe,  297. 
Swedish  Meat  Balls,  114. 

Stuffing,  152. 

Tea  Circles,  313. 

Wreaths,  24. 
Sweetbread      and      Mushroom 

Patties,  236. 
Sweetbreads  a  la  Root,  128. 

Glazed,  Lucullus,  237. 

Huntington,  236. 

Mock,  131. 

Monroe,  129. 

South  Park,  129. 

Waldorf,  130. 
Sweet  Potato  Waffles,  33. 
Swiss  Chard,  166. 
Syracuse  Filling,  347. 


INDEX 


439 


Five  o'Clock  Tea,  6. 
Syrup,  Chocolate,  6. 
Raspberry,  398. 


TABASCO    FRENCH    DRESSING, 

213. 

Taffy,  Butter,  359. 
Tapioca,  Fruit,  248. 

Garnish  for  Consomme,  78. 

Rhubarb,  Pudding,  247. 
Tea,  Hawaiian  Five  o'Clock,  5. 

Jamaica  Five  o'Clock,  6. 

Syracuse  Five  o'Clock,  6. 
Tea  Cakes,  21. 

Chinese,  325. 

Sally  Lunn,  22. 
Tea  Muffins,  25. 
Teas,  Marshmallow,  324. 

Scotch  Five  o'Clock,  324. 

Waltham,  389. 

Templeton  Stuffed  Peppers,  175. 
Timbales,  Carrot,  164. 

Cheese  Custard,  221. 

Chicken  and  Liver,  230. 

Chicken    and    Mushroom, 
230. 

Egg  and  Pimiento,  59. 

Ham,  231. 

Traymore,  231. 

Veal,  229. 

To  Measure  Dry  Ingredients,  2. 
Toast,  Cinnamon,  33. 

Corn,  167. 

Corned  Beef  Tomato,  a  la 
Bradley,  118. 

Mushroom    and    Tomato, 

171. 
Toasted  Fromage  Rolls,  45. 

Salad  Sandwiches,  382. 

Triangles,  77. 

Tomato  Salad,  German,  197. 
Joplin  Stuffed,  198. 

Sauce,  Bottled,  406. 

Soup,  French,  66. 
Tomatoes,  Broiled,  177. 

Creole,  177. 

Delmonico,  178. 

Souffle  of,  Neapolitan  Style, 
179. 

Stuffed,  178. 

Virginia  Style,  180. 

Liquids,  3. 

Tongue  and  Chicken  Forcemeat, 
242. 


Stuffed  Smoked,  241. 
Touraine  Fruit  Salad,  203. 
Tournadoes  of  Beef,  109. 

of  Lamb,  121. 
Traymore  Timbales,  231. 
Truffle  Sauce,  154. 
Turkey,  Boned,  242. 

Tetrazzini,  145. 
Turkish  Delight,  367. 

Mint  Paste,  367. 
Turnip  Cones,  180. 


URZINI,  Crab  Meat,  86. 


VANILLA  OPERA  CARAMELS,  360. 
Veal    and    Sweetbreads,     125- 

131. 
Veal  Chops,  Bavarian,  125. 

Holstein,  126. 

Loin  of,  Allemande,  127. 

Stuffed  Cushion  of,  126. 

Timbales,  229. 

Tomato  Bisque,  67. 
Vegetable  Panachee,  181. 

Ring,  Jellied,  181. 
Vegetables,  161-181. 

en  Casserole,  180. 
Venetian  Boats,  317. 
Venison     Steak,      Port     Wine 

Sauce,  146. 

Vinaigrette  Sauce,  159. 
Virginia  Corn  Cake,  26. 
Vol-au-Vent,  Crab   and  Mush- 
room, 233. 


WAFERS,     Chocolate     Walnut, 
325. 

Cream,  31. 

Peanut,  322. 

Pimiento  Cheese,  46. 

Swedish  Nut,  322. 
Waffles,  Sweet  Potato,  33. 
Waldorf  Sauce,  155. 

Sweetbreads,  130. 
Walnut  Deceits,  46. 

Molasses  Squares,  358. 
Waltham     Five    o'Clock     Tea 

Sandwiches,  389. 
Waltham  Salad  Dressing,  216. 
Washington  Canapes,  378. 
Watercress    Soup,    Cream    of, 
70. 


440 


INDEX 


Watermelon       Cubes,       Sherry 

Dressing,  393. 
Wedding     Cake,     Ornamented, 

344. 
Wellington  Cheese  Croquettes, 

50. 
White  Fruit  Cake,  340. 


White   Mountain  Angel   Cake, 
331. 

Cream  Filling,  345. 
White  Wine  Sauce,  263. 
Windsor  Eggs,  61. 

YANKEE  SAUCE,  259. 


xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx 
THOROUGHLY  RELIABLE 

THE  BEST  RESULTS  ARE  OBTAINED 
BY  USING 

Baker's 
Chocolate 

(Blue  Wrapper,  Yellow  Label) 

In  making  Cakes,  Pies,  Puddings, 
Frosting,  Ice  Cream,  Sauces, 
Fudges,  Hot  and  Cold  Drinks 

For  more  than  130  years  this 
chocolate  has  been  the  standard 
for  purity,  delicacy  of  flavor 
and  uniform  quality. 

53  Highest  Awards  in  Europe  and  America 

The  trade-mark,  "La  Belle  Chocolatiere," 
on  every  genuine  package.      A  beautifully 
illustrated    booklet    of    new    recipes    for 
Re  istered  Home  Made  Candies  and  Dainty  Dishes 

U.  S, Tat.  office        sent  free.    Drop  a  Postal  to 


Walter  Baker  &  Co.  Ltd. 

Established  irso  DORCHESTER,  MASS. 

1XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX 


The  Boston  Cooking  School  uses  and  recommends  these  goods 


Jellies 


ARE  PRONOUNCED  BY  A 
SCOTCH  EXPERT,  WHO  IS 
ACQUAINTED  WITH 
THE  PRODUCT  OF  ALL 
COUNTRIES,  TO  BE 

"tbe  finest  in  toe  WorW" 

They  contain  no  STARCH  PASTE,  GELATINE 
or  GLUE  STOCK  for  stiffening.  No  GLU- 
COSE or  "  GRAPE  SUGAR"  for  "filling." 
No  CHEMICALS  for  coloring.  No  PRE- 
SERVATIVES to  prevent  fermentation.  They 
are  not  made  of  Refuse  Canning  Stock, —  cores  and  skins, — 
but  of  Pure  Fruit  Juice,  true  to  name,  and  best  Refined  Sugar, 
and  NOTHING  ELSE. 


HOME  MADE 

Preserves 


ARE  MADE  FROM 
THE  BEST  TABLE 

FRUIT,  IN    ITS 

MOST  PERFECT 
CONDITION,  AND 
BEST  REFINED 

SUGARS 

/  use  no  bleaching  process  to  make  green  fruit  look  well. 

They  contain  no  coloring  matter  or  chemical  preservatives. 
They  are  ABSOLUTELY  PURE. 

"Puriiy  in  materials,"  "perfect  condition  in  fruit,"  " scrupulous 
care  in  their  preparation,"  have  made  them  the  world  over  THE 
STANDARD  OF  EXCELLENCE. 

IF  YOUR  GROCER  DOES  NOT  KEEP 
MY  GOODS,  SEND  FOR  PRICE  LIST  TO 

€,  lUa!e$t  "«**»  Centre,  mass. 


'A  Cube  1 

Makes  a 


To    make    perfect    bouillon 
do  just  two  simple  things — 

First  drop  a  Steero  Cube  into  a  cup ;  then  add  boiling  water. 
No  fuss,  no  trouble,  no  cooking.  The  Cube  dissolves  at  once. 


STEERO 


:*   Bouillon 
Cubes 


(&*  U.  8.  P»t  Off.) 


Made  by  Antricai  Kitchen  Products  Co.,  New  York 

You  will  find  Steero  Bouillon  as  delicious  and  delicate  in  flavor  as  its  preparation 
is  simple.  Each  Steero  Cube  combines  perfectly  the  flavors  of  beef,  vegetables, 
spices  and  seasoning.  With  Steero  Cubes  every  housewife  will  find  many  delicious 
possibilities  in  cooking.  Added  to  soups,  sauces  or  gravies  just  before  serving, 
they  give  a  final  touch  obtainable  in  no  other  way. 

SEND  FOR  FREE  SAMPLES  and  try  them  yourself 

Most  grocers  and  druggists  carry  Steero  Cubes. 
If  your'sdocs  not,  send  35 cents  fora  box  of  12. 
postpaid;  enough  for  12  cups.  Tins  of  50  and 
100 Cubes  are  more  economical  for  regular  use. 

Distributed  and  guaranteed  by 

Schfeffelin  &  Co. 
170  William  Street  New  York 

Cndn  Pure  Food  Uw,  Serial  No.  1 


Have  You  Tried  the  New 
Dessert? 


PREPARED   BY 

THE  JUNKET  FOLKS 


Chr  Hansen's  Moratory;  little 


IT  LOOKS  GOOD  IT  TASTES  GOOD  IT  IS  GOOD 

Nine  Flavors:    Coffee,    Caramel,    Chocolate,   Maple, 
Vanilla,  Lemon,  Orange,  Pistachio,  Raspberry 

Makes  a  delicious  dessert  or  a  smooth,  velvety  ice  cream 

Made  by 

THE  JUNKET  FOLKS 


CHR.  HANSEN'S  LABORATORY 


LITTLE  FALLS 


NEW  YORK 


"Choisa"  Ceylon  Tea 


i-lb.  Canisters 
60  Cents 


-lb.  Canisters 
35  Cents 


We  inviie  comparison  iviih  other  Teas  of  the  same  or 
higher  price 

S.  S.  PIERCE  CO. 

Cor.  Tremont  and  Beacon  Streets  ) 
Copley  Square         -  -  > 

Coolidge  Corner      -         -         -       BROOKLINE 


Veuve  Chaffard 
Pure  Olive  Oil 


Bottled  in  France 
in  Honest  bottles 

Full  Quarts 
Full  Pints 
Full  Half-pints 

S.  S.  PIERCE  CO. 

BOSTON 

Sole   Agents  for  the   United   States   and 
Canada 


Next  time  you  bake  or  fry 

Try  COTTOLENE 


"\1  TTierever  you  now  use  butter  or  lard  in  short- 
V  V    ening  or  frying,  just  try  COTTOLENE,  the 
original  —  and  best  —  vegetable-oil  cooking  fat; 
you  '11  be  delighted  with  the  results. 

COTTOLENE  makes  cakes  even  lighter,  and 
finer  in  texture,  than  when  butter  is  used — and 
not  one  in  a  thousand  can  taste  the  slightest  differ- 
ence. In  piecrust,  doughnuts,  and  for  all  frying, 
COTTOLENE  gives  better  results  than  lard,  and 
is  very  much  more  wholesome. 

COTTOLENE  costs  only  about  half  as  much  as 
butter  and  there  is  a  still  further  saving  in  the  fact 
that  one-third  less  COTTOLENE  is  required;  a 
pound  of  COTTOLENE  will  go  as  far  as  a  pound 
and  a  half  of  either 
butter  or  lard. 

Try  COTTO- 
LENE in  one  of 
your  favorite  re- 
cipes; one  test  will 
convince  that  COT- 
TOLENE is  "equal 
to  butter,  better 
than  lard,  more 
economical  than 
either." 

Made  by 

THE 
N.K.FAIRBANK 

COMPANY 


DR.  WILEY'S  TRIBUTE 
TO  BREAD 

"Measured  by  actual  nutritive  power 
there  is  no  other  complete  ration  which 
in  economy  can  compare  with  bread." 

Of  course  Dr.  Wiley  meant  good 
bread. 

The  secret  of  good  bread  is  proper 
fermentation.  A  clean,  pure,  strong 
and  uniform  leaven  brings  out  in  the 
bread  the  nutritive  properties  of  the 
wheat.  It  makes  the  bread  more 
palatable,  digestible  and  wholesome. 

Such  a  leaven  is  FLEISCHMANN'S 
YEAST.  Used  by  the  best  bread 
makers  -of  the  country  with  perfect 
success  for  nearly  half  a  century. 

Write  for  our  new  Recipe  Book  con- 
taining nearly  a  half  hundred  recipes 
for  good  things  to  eat  —  free  on 
request. 

• 

THE  FLEISCHMANN  CO. 

701  WASHINGTON  STREET  NEW  YORK  CITY 


FOREIGN  and  DOMESTIC. 

TyrOULDS  of  Copper,  Tin  and  China.  Casse- 
roles, Salad  or  Lettuce  Crispers,  Mayonnaise 
Blenders.  Cook's  Knives,  Pallet  Knives,  Holly 
Cooking  Spoons.  Cutters  for  Vegetables,  Pastry, 
etc.  Ramikens,  Mushroom  Dishes,  Fireless 
Cookers,  Plate  Warmers,  Breakfast  Warmers. 
Coffee  Machines. 

HAGIC  COVERS  FOR  PASTRY 

Brushes  Aluminum  Ware 

Wooden  Ware         Copper  Ware 
Tin  Ware  Enamel  Ware 

Fireplace   Furnishings,  Andirons,  Fenders,    Fire 
Sets,  Brushes,  and  Bellows. 

Institution,  Hotel,  and  Hospital  Supplies. 

B.  F.  MACY 

FORMERLY  OF 

F.  A.   WALKER  &  CO. 

The  Oldest  Kitchen  Furnishing  Store 
in  New  England. 

Importer—  Wholesale  —  Retail 

410  Boylston  St. 

203  Providence  St.    Near  Berkeley 
BOSTON,  MASS. 


BELL'S  SPICED  SEASONING 

is  made  of  the  granulated  leaves  of  pure  sweet  herbs  and 
pure  spices,  and  on  account  of  its  purity  and  strength  less 
is  required  than  of  any  other  kind. 

IF  YOUR  GROCER  CANNOT  SUPPLY  YOU,  we  will  mail  on  receipt  of  six  2-cent 
stamps,  10 -cent  can  to  flavor  the  DRESSING  for  100  Ibs.  Meat  or  Poultry;  or  for  twelve 
2-ct'nt  stamps,  25-cent  can  to  flavor  300  Ibe.,  and  with  each  can  our  beautiful  "  Booklet " 
of  valuable  cooking  recipes. 

BELLS  SEASONING 

Dorit  Experiment,  Don't  Guess.  Use  BELL'S  to 
Delicately  Flavor  Dressings  for 
Meat,  Game, Fish  and  Poultry. 
Flavors  Dressings  fit  for  the  Gods. 

MISS  FARMER'S  TURKEY  DRESSING.    1  cnp  stale  bread 
crumbs,  1  cup  cracker  crumbs,  1  tablespoon  Bell's  Seasoning,  1 

teaspoon  salt,  X  tablespoon  finely  chopped  onion,J4  cup  melted  butter, 
X  cup  finely  chopped  cold  boiled  ham.  Mix  well,  and  moisten  with 
1 !.-)  cups  scalded  milk.  If  stuffing  is  to  be  served  cold,  add  1  egg, 
slightly  beaten. 

DELICIOUS  HOME  MADE  SAUSAGE.    To  each  pound  of 
fresh,  lean  pork,  add  1  level  tablespoon  of  Bell's  Poultry  Season- 
ing and  \Y4  even  teaspoons  salt.    Sprinkle  over  the  meat,  cut  fine,  thoroughly  mix  to  a 
stitf  dough,  then  make  into  cakes  and  fry. 

In  1870,  Mrs.  Underwood,  the  famous  cook,  served  General  Butler  with  dressing  fla- 
vored with  Bell's  Seasoning,  and  the  general  said,  "A  little  more  stuffing,  please. 
This  is  fine,  Mrs.  Underwood." 

REMEMBER,  lOc.  can  Bell's  Poultry  Seasoning  is  sufficient  to  flavor  the  dress- 
ing of  100  pounds  meat  or  poultry,  or  the  25c.  can,  300  pounds. 

Bell's  Booklet  of  valuable  cooking  recipes  of  your  grocer  or  on  receipt  of  postal. 

Fordelicious  Sausage  flavor  as  directed,  eiiherwith  Bell's  Spiced  Poultry  Seasoning, 
Bell's  New  England  Sausage  Seasoning,  or  Bell's  White  Sausage  Seasoning. 

MADE  ONLY  BY  THE  WILLIAM  G.  BELL  CO.,  BOSTON,  MASS. 


The  Best  Results 

in  cooking  can  only  be  obtained 
when  the  Best  Ingredients  are  used. 

SLADE'S 
SPICES 

and 

SPECIALTIES 

are  all  and  always  ABSOLUTELY 
PURE  and  of  Superior  Excellence. 

€JAsk  grocers  for  SLADE'S  and 
refuse  inferior  substitutes. 

qSend2c3tampfor "SLADE'S  COOKING  SCHOOL 
RECIPES,"  a  72-page  cook-book  by  twenty-five  leading 
cooking  school  teachers. 


D.  &  L.  Slade  Co.,  Boston 
191  State  Street 


SQUIRE'S 

KETTLE  RENDERED 
PURE  LEAF  LARD 

A  GENERATION  ago  there  was  only 
L\  one  kind  of  lard,  —  made  from  fat 
*  »  taken  from  any  part  of  the  hog. 
Today  there  is  in  use  Leaf  Lard,  made 
from  the  raw  leaf  only;  Lard  made  from 
fat  taken  from  other  parts  of  the  pig,  and  many  substitutes  for 
Lard,  made  from  cotton-seed  oil,  beef  drippings,  oils  and  any 
other  substance  which  has  some  shortening  power. 

The  leaves  are  Nature's  way  of  storing  up  food  in  the  years 
of  plenty  for  the  year  of  famine.  The  bear  liyes  all  winter  with- 
out eating,  but  food  is  required  to  sustain  life.  He  goes  into 
winter  quarters  fat ;  he  comes  out  lean.  Nature  is  particular. 
She  stores  up  only  the  best,  —  that  which  has  the  greatest  sus- 
taining power  for  the  least  volume.  The  leaf  is  Nature's  food. 
—  the  finest,  sweetest  of  fats.  The  chemical  composition  ana 
physical  structure  of  leaf  are  similar  to  that  of  pure,  rich  cream. 
It  looks  and  tastes  different  from  other  fat.  It  has  a  flaky  ap- 
pearance and  a  sweet,  nutty  flavor.  Only  about  four  and  one- 
half  per  cent  of  a  healthy,  well-fed  animal  is  leaf. 

Squire's  Pure  Leaf  Lard  is  made  exclusively  from  the  leaves 
of  healthy  porkers.  Mr.  Squire  was  the  first  manufacturer  to 
make  a  Lard  a  little  better  than  any  other  and  yet  he  invented 
no  new  process.  He  made  it,  and  it  is  made  today,  just  as 
Leaf  Lard  was  made  in  the  New  England  kitchen  years  before. 
He  melted  the  pure,  raw  leaf  in  an  open  kettle  over  a  fire, 
strained  it  through  cloth,  and  ran  it  into  pails  to  cool.  New 
England  families  were  quick  to  appreciate  the  difference. 
They  noticed  a  flaky  appearance,  the  absence  of  any  pig  odor 
and  a  sweet,  nutty  flavor. 


THOUSANDS  9!  dollars  have  been  spent  in  New  England  in  the  last  few 
years  advertising  substitutes  for  Lard;  yet  such  substitutes  have  never 
interfered  with  the  increasing  demand  for  Squire's  Pure  Leaf  Lard. 
"  You  can  fool  all  the  people  some  of  the  time  and  some  of  the  people  all  the 
time,  but  you  can't  fool  all  the  people  all  the  time."    John  P.  Squire  did  not 
believe  in  fooling  any  of  the  people  any  of  the  time.    There  is  no  food  sub- 
stance manufactured  which  has  greater  shortening  power  than  Squire's  Kettle 
Rendered  Pure  Leaf  Lard.    It  is  Nature's  food,  —  better  than  mother  used  to 
make.    Remember  the  distinction  between  Leaf  Lard  and  Pure  Lard.    Look 
for  the  word  "  Leaf"  in  the  label  and  ask  for  Squire's  and  the  best  is  yours. 


JOHN  P.  SQUIRE  &  COMPANY    /.    BOSTON 


A  flavor  that's  distinctive — 

A  taste  that  delights— 
A  breakfast  that  satisfies — 


USED  FOR  MANY  TEARS  AND  APPROVED  BY 
MISS  FARMER 


Booklet  of  recipes  sent  postpaid  on  application  to 

THE  WHEATENA  COMPANY 

WHEATENAVILLE,  RAHWAY,N.J. 


HUB  RANGES 

Are  the  Best  Because 

The  Hub  Improved  Flue  heats  5  sides  of  the  oven. 

(Other  ranges  heat  only  4  sides.) 

The  Hub  Flue  makes 
only  4  turns  to  reach 

Smoke  pipe.  (Other  range 
flues  make  6  turns.) 

THEREFORE:  33i%   less 

friction  in  Hub  Flue  and 
25%  more  heat  around 
Hub  oven. 

This  flue  saves 
fuel  and  assures 
perfect  baking. 


SEE 
Special  Hub  Features 

FRENCH  TOP 
SIMPLEX  DAMPER 

ARCHED  OVEN 
TOP 

TWO-PIECE  OVEN 
BOTTOM 


OrtI  Y  ITD  BEARING  COAL  PAN 
f\VrJLJLHlY  BEARING  ASH  PAN 

Sold  by  Leading  Dealers 


SMITH  &  ANTHONY  CO. 

MFRS.  HUB  RANGES  AND  HEATERS 

52-54  UNION  STREET,  BOSTON,  MASS. 


Wteh's 

J£7*e  Mveion&l  t>t*in£, 

Grai>e   Juice 

Write  for  our  free  book  of  recipes. 
Sample  four -ounce  bottle  mailed  for 
10  cents. 

Do  more  than  ask  for  "grape  juice 
— ask  for  Welch's  —  and  get  it 

THE  WELCH  GRAPE  JUICE  COMPANY 
WESTFIELD.  N.  Y. 


ONE    WEEK 


OR    LESS 


The  idea  of  one  weeks  time  for  cleansing  is  not  a  new  one    We 

always  return  goods  in  one  week  or  less  except  in  the  very  busy 

season  on  certain  lines  of  work 

Occasionally  a  very  badly  soiled  article  requires  extra  care  and 

longer  time  to  treat  satisfactorily 

Our  prices  are  absolutely  fair  for  the  highest  quality  of  work   High 

class  help    Fireproof  and  sanitary  buildings  ventilated  by  air  cooling 

systems    Everything  is  done  to  .safeguard  our  patrons  and  give 

them  the  acme  of  good  work 

It  has  never  been  necessary  for 

SLEWANDOS 

to  make  special  prices  to  obtain  business 
The  quality  of  our  work  is  sufficient 

MENS  CLOTHES  COLLECTED  MONDAY  RETURNED  SATURDAY 
ALL  ARTICLES  INSURED  AGAINST  FIRE  WHILE  IN  OUR  CARE 

BOSTON  SHOPS 
17  Temple  Place  284  Boylston  Street 

Telephone  555  Oxford  [Telephone  3900  Back  Bay 

Roxbury  Shop  2206  Washington  Street 

Telephone  Roxbury  92 

Watertown  Shop  1  Galen  Street 

Telephone  Newton  North  300 

Shops  also  in 

Lynn  Salem  Worcester        Springfield  'Providence      Newport 

Hartford       New  Haven     Bridgeport       Portland  New  York 

Rochester        Philadelphia    Baltimore  Washington 

DELIVERY  SYSTEM  IN  BOSTON  SUBURBS 


Cambridge  Shop  Harvard  Square 

Telephone  Cambridge  945 

Brookline  Shop  1310  Beacon  Street 

Telephone  Brookline  5030 


Albany 


Remember  "YOU  CAN   RELY  ON  LEWANDOS" 


IN  the  prep- 
aration of 
the    many 
fine    recipes    to 
be  found  in  this 
valuable    "New 
Book   of  Cook- 
ery," a 

HASTINGS 
KITCHEN 
CABINET 

will  greatly 
assist  you  in  get- 
ting the  best 
results. 


THE  WATERS  No.  31A 


This  is  because  the  Hastings  combines  the  essential 
auxiliary  features  necessary  in  the  art  of  good 
cooking.  We  suggest  to  every  housekeeper  the 
use  of  a  good  cabinet  and  a  thorough  personal  in- 
vestigation of  ours  before  purchasing. 

The  Hastings  may  be  seen  at  most  of  the  best  stores. 
If  you  don't  find  it,  write  us  and  we  will  send  the 
booklet,  "A  Shorter  Day's  Work,"  which  illustrates 
the  many  conveniences  which  we  have  not  space 
to  describe  here. 


HASTINGS  CABINET  CO. 

500  BROADWAY  HASTINGS,  MICHIGAN 


Magic 
Covers 


Testimonials 

I  have  told  over  a  thousand.  After  a  few 
are  sold  they  sell  others. 

MRS.  G.  P.  WITHAM, 

Waterville,  Me. 

I  consider  Magic  Covers  a  necessity  in  every 
up-to-date  kitchen.  They  are  used  in  all  my 
class-rooms,  and  are  recommended  in  special, 
class,  and  demonstration  work. 

FANNIE  MERRITT  FARMER, 
Principal  of  Miss  Farmer's  School  of  Cookery. 


Price,  65  Cents,  Postpaid. 

aiiiiiiiiiiiiiDiiiiiiiiiiiiaiiiiiiiiiiiiaiiiiiDiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiaiiiiiiiiiiiico 


MAGIC  CODERS.  WHA T  ARE  THE Tf 
The  greatest  invention  of  the  age  1  A  great 
saving  of  time,  strength,  and  material.  Neat, 
durable,  and  effectual.  Every  housekeeper  should 
have  one.  By  their  use  the  softest  dough  can  be 
handled  without  the  slightest  possibility  of  sticking 
to  moulding  board  or  rolling  pin.  They  are  S 
guaranteed  to  be  absolutely  as  represented.  One  s 
set  will  last  for  years.  They  will  save  many  times  5 
their  cost  in  material  alone.  They  are  highly  5 
recommended  by  leading  cooks  and  teachers  of  |j 
5  cooking.  Dough  cannot  ttick  to  Magic  Covers.  | 

OiiiiiiiiiiiiiDiiiiiiiiiiiiaiiiiiiiiiiiiciiiiiiaiiiiiiiiiitiDiiiiimiiiiaiiiiiiiiiiiico 

Address»  Magic  Cover  Co., 

CORRINA,  ME. 


3J.-S 

IS  | 


IB 

h 


P.   il 


The  Covers  are  better  than  I  imagined. 
The  very  poetry  of  pastry  work. 

FRANC  BAKER,  Morenci,  Mich. 

I  have  used  the  Covers  and  would  not  do 
without  them.  ELOISE  P.  FLORD, 

Grace  Hospital,  Detroit,  Mich. 

The  class  has  used  my  covers  and  the  ladies 
all  want  them.  One  trial  will  sell  a  Magic 
Cover.  I  am  sure  I  can  sell  five  or  six  dozen. 

STELLA  A.  DODGE, 
School  of  Domestic  Science,  Erie,  Penn. 


For 
Rolling  Pin 

and 
Bread  Board 


RECOMMENDED  and  USED  by 

Miss  Fannie  Merritt  Farmer 

and  many  others  interested  in 

PURE  FOODS 


NIOELLE  OLIVE  OIL  00. 

96  Warren  Street 
New  York 


Hot  Griddle  Cakes  with  Karo 

—Try  it  for  breakfast 
— the  most  delicious 
syrup  you  ever  tasted 


is  fine  on  hot  biscuit. 

The  children  like  plain  bread 
and  Karo  better  than  a  richer 
dessert — and  Karo  is  nourish- 

ishing  and  digestible —  a  real  food.    Use  it  in  cooking. 

Make  Karo  Candies. 

Karo  Cook  Book — fifty  pages,  including  thirty  perfect 

recipes  for  home  candy  making— free.  Send  your  name 

on  a  post  card,  today. 


Corn  Products  Refining  Company 


P.  O.  Box  161 


NEW  YORK 


^hose  dainty  "  old  home  "  cus- 

JL  tards  and  puddings  are  so 

good  when  you  make  them  with 

Kinpford's  Corn  Starch 

Why  do  you  risk  failure  with  ordinary 
corn  starches  ?    The  cook  who  knows 
uses  Kingsford's — that's 
the  reason  she  gets  results 
that  so  many  cooks  miss. 
Insist  on  getting   Kings- 
ford's — your  grocer  has  it. 

Send  a  post  card  today  for  Kings- 
ford's  COOK    BOOK-recipes  for 
168  of  the  best  dishes  you  ever  ate. 
T.  KINGSFORD  &  SON 

Oswego,  N.  Y. 
National  Starch  Co.,  Successors 


The  Odors  of  Cooking 

Can  be  easily  destroyed.  Just  use  the  famous 


EGYPTIAN 
DEODORIZER 
or  AEROFUME 

Which  quickly  dispels  all  undesirable  odors,  filling 
the  air  with  its  own  delightful  perfume. 

If  burned  in  the  lower  hall,  it  permeates  the 
entire  house.  Especially  valuable  in  the  sick  room, 
nursery,  bath  room,  hospital,  and  all  public  places. 

Box  of  16  Pastiles  with  Holder  25c 


PAUL   MANUFACTURING  CO. 

36-40  Fulton  Street,  Boston,  Mass. 


A  Good  Dinner 

Is  seen  at  its  best  when  the  finely 
cared  for  silver  reflects  it.  QFor 
nearly  a  quarter  of  a  century 

(HNO© 

The  reliable  silver  polish,  has  brightened 
the  silver  of  the  best  homes  in  the  land. 
It  cannot  injure  the  finest  ware,  is  easy 
to  use,  and  gives  perfect  satisfaction. 
Ask  your  dealer  and  see  that  you  get 

CANDO 

PAUL  MANUFACTURING  CO. 

36-40  Fulton  Street         -          »          -         Boston,  Mass. 
Makers  of  the  famous  Royal  Brass  Polish 


NOTE  THE  ECONOMY 

A  teaspoonful  to  a  pail  of  water 


THE  USE  OF 

SULPHO  -  N  APTHOL 

Means  a  Spotless  Kitchen 

A  kitchen  that  not  only  looks  clean  but 
is  absolutely  hygienically  clean. 

No  dirt  or  stains  on  woodwork,  walls 
or  floors — Sulpho-Napthol  will  remove 
instantly  dirt  and  stains  on  which  soap 
and  water  have  no  effect. 

No  grease  in  the  cracks  and  corners 
around  the  sink  and  pipes — Sulpho- 
Napthol  will  carry  every  speck  of  grease 
down  and  out  the  pipe. 

No  trouble  from  a  clogged-up  drain 
pipe — Sulpho-Napthol  will  thoroughly 
clean  and  disinfect  it. 

No  water  bugs  or  roaches — they  will 
not  cross  a  surface  washed  with  Sulpho- 
Napthol. 

Sulpho-Napthol  is  a  wonderful  healer 
as  well  as  a  cleaner  and  disinfectant. 

For  burns,  cuts  or  bruises  it  is  marvelous 
in  its  soothing,  healing,  cleansing  effect. 


ERA! 

THIS  package  — a  jar 
of   Beale  &    Garnett's 
Scotch  Cure  Finnan  Had- 
|     die — is  but  one  of  their 
many  strikingly  attractive 
products  of  delicious  fish 
foods  packed  entirely  in 


These  packages  rep- 
resent  an    emphatic   expression 
of  the  NEW-ERA  of  food  pre- 
serving: ABSOLUTELY 
SANITARY,   THOR- 
OUGHLY   STER- 
ILIZED, ENTIRE- 
LY VISIBLE  fish 
delicacies,   powerfully 
appealing  AT  A 
GLANCE. 

The 
Finnan 

Haddieis  a  delight- 
ful product,  already  of 
phenomenal  record. 
It    represents    only 
the  usable  portions  of 
delicately  cured   haddies 
—  fish    absolutely    fresh 
from  our  own  waters.    It  has 
scores  of  possibilities — but  may 
be  served  cold  right  from  the  jar. 
Ask  your  grocer  — 

Or  send  us  fifteen  cents  towards  mailing  and  we  will  send  our  Beale  &  Garnett  recipe 
booklet  and  a  half-pound  jar  of  haddie  without  further  charge. 

Other  Beale  &  Garnett  Packages,  in  Glass 

SMOKED  LUNCH  HERRING          CORNED  FISH          FLEECY   COD 
CLAM  PRODUCTS  SPICED  SARDINES  IN  PURE  OLIVE  OIL 


BEALE  &  GARNETT  CO.,  Eastport,  Maine 


PUREOXIA 

GINGER  ALE 

MADE  WITH  DISTILLED  WATER 


291  Fifth  Avenue 

Is  one  of  the  most  interesting  little  places 
in  New  York 


ALL  HOME  COOKING 


Jp      A  Perfect 
P      Salad  Cracker 

is  the  Educator   Toasterette. 

A  dainty  wafer  —  salted,  buttered, 
and  toasted  to  a  crisp  nicety. 
But  it's  the  sweet  whole 
wheat   flavor   that 
makes    their 
eating    such   a 
lingering  de- 
light.     Also 
delicious     with 
soup.     Try    them. 


EDUCATOR 
CRACKERS 


Better  than  Bread 

So  say  thousands  who  have  tried 
Educator   Wafers— buttered. 

A  thin,   crisp,    whole    wheat 
Wafer.    Nothing  more  nourish-     ^^1 
ing    for    children.    And 
nothing  more  delicious  when     ^^ 
made  into  sandwiches — using     NjE 
Educator   Peanut   Butter,  ^| 
sardines,  or  soft  cheese. 

Educator  Toasterettes  and     ^H 
Wafers   are  just  two  of  many  kinds    ^8 
of  Educator  Crackers.    Buy 

them  from  your  dealer.  ^ 


Joexso\D>i(  uoKl  OHO  COM  rvv» 

Boston,  Mass. 


Coffees  and  Teas 

True  to  Name 

There  is  a  wide  variation  in  the  price  of  coffee  and  tea 
because  there  is  a  wide  difference  in  \\\t  flavor. 

Genuine  Java  coffee,  field  ripened  and  cured  by  the 
Old  Dutch  Government  process,  has  a  mellow  richness 
of  flavor  unequalled  by  any  other  coffee.  We  import 
the  best  Java  Coffee  produced  in  the  Dutch  East  Indies. 

Genuine  Mocha  of  high  quality  is  rarely  brought  to 
the  United  States.  Our  own  agent  in  Arabia  sends  us 
the  finest  produced. 

There  are  four  flavors  in  tea:  "Oolong"  from  Formosa, 
"English  Breakfast"  from  China,  "Green"  from  Japan, 
and  "Orange  Pekoe"  from  India  and  Ceylon.  From 
each  country  comes  a  little  tea  that  is  delicate  and  fine  in 
flavor.  We  import  from  all  these  countries  teas  worth 
from  30  cents  to  60  cents  a  pound,  and  a  few  teas 
worth  from  $1.00  to  $2.00. 

After  January,  1913,  we  can  mail  anywhere  any 
quantity  of  coffee  or  tea  at  very  reasonable  prices.  You 
can  have  coffee  and  tea  fresh,  uniform,  and  of  genuine 
fine  flavor  if  you  want  it.  Write  us  for  prices. 

Oriental  Tea  Company 

ESTABLISHED   IN    1868 


85-87-89 
Court   Street 
Boston,  Mass. 


After  the  sugar  nas  been  safeguarded  in 
our  refineries  by  exacting  laboratory  tests 
to  insure  its  absolute  purity,  we  want 
to  be  certain  of  its  reaching  you  as  pure 
as  it  leaves  the  refineries  ti*j  so  auto- 
matic machinery  receives,  weighs  and 
packs  the  sugar  in  dust-tight,  germ- 
proof  packages.  No  hand  touches  the 
product  from  refinery  to  user. 

In  germ-proof  packages  only 

No  files— no  dust 

Sold   by  grocers  in  2  and   5    pound 
Sealed  packages.     Guaranteed  weight 

THE  AMERICAN  SUGAR 
REFINING    COMPANY 

Address — New  York  City 


WILLIAM  LEAVENS  &  CO. 

Furniture  Manufacturers 
32  CANAL  STREET  BOSTON,  MASS. 


SOLID   STRAIGHT  LINE  FURNITURE 

Reasonable  in  price,  and  your  own  taste  in  finish.  A  complete 
line  on  exhibition  at  our  warerooms.  Finished  in  any  way 
desired  or  furnished  unfinished. 


WE  WILL  MAIL  UPON  REQUEST 
200  OR  MORE    ILLUSTRATIONS 


William  Leavens  &  Co. 

Manufacture  rs 
32  CANAL  STREET  BOSTON,  MASS. 


"NO  OIL  TO  SOIL" 


THE  SOLVING 

OF  THE 

DUST 

PROBLEM 


A 

Standard 
Duster 

25  cents 
Prepaid 

Money  back 
if  not  satis- 
factory 


Write  for  our  "Dust  Book  A" 

It  will  show  you  how  to  make  dusting  a  pleasure ;  how  to  dry- 
clean  a  silk  skirt  in  five  minutes ;  how  to  clean  windows  in  a 
twinkling;  how  to  polish  pianos  and  highly  finished  furniture. 

HOWARD 

DUSTLESS  DUSTER  CO. 

200  Summer  St,  Boston,  Mass. 


WORKS    ON    COOKERY 

THE  BOSTON  COOKING-SCHOOL  COOK 
BOOK 

By  FANNIE  MERRITT  FARMER.  New  revised  edi- 
tion, with  130  illustrations  in  half-tone.  12 mo.  $2.00. 

Miss  Farmer's  cook  book  is  undoubtedly  the  most  practical  and  serviceable 
work  of  its  kind.  This  new  edition  contains  125  additional  recipes  introduced 
in  logical  order,  making  in  all  2117  thoroughly  tested  recipes,  from  the  simple 
and  economical  to  the  elaborate  and  expensive.  130  new  illustrations  in  half- 
tone have  been  introduced. 

The  best  cook  book  on  the  market.  —  Woman's  World,  New  York. 

A  NEW  BOOK  OF  COOKERY 

By  FANNIE  MERRITT  FARMER.  With  6  colored 
plates  and  over  200  illustrations  in  half-tone.  i2mo. 
$1.60  net. 

A  wealth  of  new  material,  the  result  of  experiments  in  the  author's  class- 
rooms, makes  this  an  almost  indispensable  companion  to  the  author's  "Boston 
Cooking-School  Cook  Book."  Contains  over  eight  hundred  receipes  upon  all 
branches,  including  many  new  and  important  dishes. 

CHAFING  DISH  POSSIBILITIES 

By  FANNIE  MERRITT  FARMER.    i6mo.    #1.00. 

There  have  been  many  volumes  of  chafing  dish  recipes,  but  none  which  is 
more  appropriately  adapted  for  the  breakfast  or  lunch  table,  or  for  small  con- 
genial parties.  Every  feature  is  distinctly  new.  —  Boston  Herald. 


FOOD  AND  COOKERY   FOR  THE    SICK 
AND  CONVALESCENT 

By  FANNIE  MERRITT  FARMER.     With  sixty  illus- 
trations.    300  pages.    i2mo.    Cloth.    $1.60  net. 

An  invaluable  book  for  those  whose  duty  it  is  to  care  for  the  sick,  and  of 
equal  importance  to  those  who  see  in  correct  feeding  the  way  of  preventing 
much  of  the  illness  about  us. 

A  real  cyclopedia  of  invalid  cookery.  —  The  Watchman,  Boston. 


LITTLE,  BROWN,  &  COMPANY, 


(RISCO 


.  SOt.  and 

$1.00.  txttft  in  thi 
Farlftst.  On  ul.  at  all 
gnttru,  Rfcommend-d 
by  Mia  Farmer  and  by 
Domestic  Sdtntt  Uachtrt 
fixrjwhrrt. 

C RISCO,  the  new  product  for  frying,  for  shortening 
and  for  cake-making,  is  purely  vegetable  and  should 
be  used  for  cooking  where  you  now  use  fats  of 
animal  origin,  such  as  butter  or  lard.     It  is  in  no  sense  a 
compound  or  mixture  of  oils  and  animal  fats.     There  is 
absolutely  no  animal  matter  in  it. 

Crisco  is  exquisitely  clean  and  pure  in  origin  and 
manufacture.  It  never  gets  strong,  it  stays  fresh  and  sweet. 
As  soon  as  you  see  Crisco,  you  will  be  impressed  with  its 
purity.  It  is  a  delicious  cream  white,  pleasing  and  appe- 
tizing in  appearance. 

Purchase  a  package  today.  Use  it  throughout  your 
cooking  and  see  how  wholesome,  delicate  and  dainty  it 
makes  your  foods. 

On  rtfutst.  u*  will  mail  a  b»Utt  •/  nxr  100  Ttsttd 
Criict  Rtciptt,  ihotvinf  h«w  Criict  ihould  It  uitd,  Addritt 
Iht  Prtcur  &  Gambit  Co..  Deft.  5,  Cincinnati.  OhU. 


For 


For  Shortening    For  take  Making 


"Almost  as  Necessary  as 
the  Cook." 

Speaking  of  Ivory  Soap,  a  Cincinnati  woman  recent- 
ly made  the  statement  that  it  is  "almost  as  necessary 
as  the  cook." 

It  is.  You  can  keep  house  -without  a  cook,  but  not 
without  soap.  You  must  have  it;  and  the  purer  it  is, 
the  better. 

Ivory  Soap  is  pure — purer  than  soaps  that  sell  for 
five  times  its  price;  very  much  purer  than  any  soap 
that  sells  at  or  anywhere  near  its  price. 

And  because  of  its  purity,  Ivory  Soap  is  available 
for  scores  of  purposes  for  which  ordinary  soaps  are  un- 
safe and  unsatisfactory. 

More  and  more,  American  housekeepers  appreciate 
that  fact.  More  and  more,  they  realize  that  Ivory  Soap 
is  a  product  on  which  they  can  rely.  It  is  pure.  And 
purity,  in  soap,  is  as  necessary  as  it  is  in  food. 

Ivory  Soap  .  ,  .  994Xoo  Per  Cent.  Pure 


14  DAY  USE 

RETURN  TO  DESK  FROM  WHICH  BORROWED 
AGRICULTURE   LIBRARY 

40  Giannini  Hall  -  Tel.  No.  642-4493 

This  book  is  due  on  the  last  date  stamped  below,  or 

on  the  date  to  which  renewed. 
Renewed  books  are  subject  to  immediate  recall. 


RON-RENE 

MFABIE 

Dtd3  1981 

t  received  In 
Natural  Resources  Library 

bet,  i  4  uoi 

LD  21-40m-2,'69 
(J6057slO)476— A-32 


General  Library 

University  of  California 

Berkeley 


eT StoH  inniniO  Ofc     +—QJ 


