*<% 


„.  i 


I  f  w 


m^ 


%«ijJ* 


o<. 


MARY 


1 

1 

y\ 

Class   Tl  7  A3 
Rook    .  Q   (dSY 
Copyright  N° 


COPYRIGHT  DEPOSIT. 


THE  NEW   ENGLAND 


COOK  BOOK 


.* 


MARY  GOOLD 


NEWPORT,  R.   I. 

THE  MILNE  PRINTERY 

1909 


*\\ 


<^cJ 


¥? 


COPYEIGHT,  1909 

BY 

M.  G.  BUCKLEY 


ICI.A251343 


Table  of  Contents. 


PAGE 

Bread,  etc.            .... 

8 

Breakfast  Dishes 

10 

Beverages            .... 

25 

Soups               .... 

28 

Chowders             .... 

37 

Meats,  etc.       .... 

40 

Poultry  and  Game 

49 

Fish      .            .            . 

55 

Sauces       ..... 

62 

Croquettes      .... 

68 

Eggs     .                  .... 

75 

Vegetables      .... 

79 

Omelets                .... 

75 

Salad  Dressing 

93 

Salads       ..... 

95 

Puddings          .... 

103 

Ice  Cream             .... 

117 

Jellies  ..... 

119 

Sweet  Sauces       .... 

124 

Candy                .... 

127 

Pies           ..... 

130 

Cake                 .... 

138 

Ginger-Bread       .... 

150 

Cookies            .... 

154 

Preserving,  etc. 

159 

Pickling           .... 

162 

Invalid  Cookery 

166 

PREFACE 


In  compiling  this  cook  book  no  attempt  has  been  made 
to  compete  with  the  larger  ones,  as  that  would  be  well-nigh 
impossible,  but  merely  to  give  some  cherished  recipes  of 
old  housewives  from  manuscript  books  which  have  been 
transmitted  to  them  through  generations.  They  have 
been  thoroughly  tried  and  proved  successful  and  have 
been  found  to  give  the  most  satisfactory  results  at  the 
least  possible  cost.  The  greater  number  have  been 
obtained  from  women  of  New  England ;  quite  a  number 
were  either  contributed  or  dictated  by  Southern  colored 
cooks  of  high  reputation  in  the  art  and  who  seem  to  have 
a  natural  aptitude  for  that  work;  whilst  a  very  few  were 
given  by  people  from  foreign  countries.  The  most  of 
these  recipes  are  designed  for  families  who  live  well,  but 
moderately,  and  who  find  it  necessary  to  live  in  a  plain 
and  economical  way.  A  very  few  are  arranged  for 
elaborate  occasions.  If  these  recipes  are  carefully  and 
fairly  tried,  I  feel  that  few,  if  any,  will  cause  disappoint- 
ment, and  that  a  new  interest  may  be  awakened  in  old- 
fashioned  dishes,  now  almost  extinct. 

M.  G. 


Table  of  Measures 


2  cupfuls  of  granulated  sugar  make  I  pound. 

2.Y2.  cupfuls  of  powdered  sugar  make  I  pound. 

2  1-3  cupfuls  of  brown  sugar  make  1  pound. 

4  cupfuls  of  flour  make  1  pound. 

2  cupfuls  of  solid  butter  make  1  pound. 

8  heaping  tablespoons  make  1  cup. 

12  tablespoons  dry  material  make  I  cup. 

16  tablespoons  of  liquid  make  I  cup. 

%  teaspoon  make  1  saltspoon. 

2  level  teaspoons  make  1  rounding  teaspoon. 

All  ingredients  used  in  these  recipes  are  measured 
level,  unless  otherwise  stated. 

Tin  measuring  cup,  holding  y2  pint,  is  the  regulation 
size. 


CHAPTER  I. 

Bread,  Breakfast  Dishes  and  Beverages 
Hint :    Bread  must  not  be  moved  in  the  oven  until  after 
the  first  quarter,  or  until  it  has  set  or  risen.    The  tempera- 
ture of  the  water  used  in  making  bread  must  be  98-100 
degrees  F. 

MILK  BREAD.  (Prize  recipe.) 
Dissolve  Yi  magic  (dry)  yeast  cake  in  I  pint  of  warm 
water,  thicken  with  flour,  add  2  tablespoons  white  sugar 
and  1  teaspoon  salt;  let  this  rise  over  night,  or  about  10 
hours.  Scald  2  teacups  of  milk;  when  cool  dissolve  ^4 
teaspoon  soda  in  the  milk,  add  1  quart  of  flour  to  the 
batter,  stirring  with  a  knife ;  then  add  the  milk  and  enough 
more  flour  to  knead,  until  it  will  not  stick  to  the  fingers. 
Let  it  rise  until  light,  knead  it  again,  let  it  rise  again, 
divide  into  2  loaves,  let  it  rise  in  the  pan  and  bake  1  hour. 
This  may  be  started  about  10  A.  M.  and  the  bread  made 
about  8  P.  M.,  and  let  rise  over  night  and  bake  in  the 
morning. 

GRAHAM  BREAD. 
One  pint  of  milk,  scalded,  and  cooled,  Yz  cup  of  sugar, 
1  teaspoon  salt,  %  yeast  cake  dissolved  in  34  c"P  of 
lukewarm  water,  4  or  5  cups  of  fine  granulated  wheat 
flour  or  \y2  cups  of  white  flour  and  3^  cups  of  sifted 
graham  flour.  Mix  in  the  order  given  into  a  dough,  a 
little  softer  than  for  white  bread ;  let  it  rise  till  light,  stir 
it  down,  pour  into  well-greased  pans  or,  if  stiff  enough. 

7 


New  England  Cook  Book 


into  loaves.  Let  it  rise  again  and  bake  a  little  longer 
and  in  a  cooler  oven  than  for  white  bread.  This  should 
be  mixed  in  the  morning,  as  when  done  at  night  it  is  liable 
to  become  sour. 

RUSK. 

Make  a  dough  at  night  by  the  rule  for  Parker  House 
rolls.  In  the  morning  make  half  the  quantity  into  bread 
or  biscuits;  with  the  remainder  add  Yz  cup  of  butter,  I 
cup  of  sugar,  2-3  cup  of  currants,  a  little  cinnamon  and 
a  little  nutmeg,  1  egg  well  beaten ;  mix  and  beat  well 
with  the  hand;  add  enough  flour  to  shape  easily.  Let  it 
rise  in  the  bowl,  shape  into  small  rounds,  put  them  in  a 
shallow  cake  pan,  so  to  have  them  rise  high,  have  a  little 
sugar  and  milk  in  a  cup  dissolved;  rub  over  the  top  of 
the  biscuits  and  sprinkle  with  sugar.  Bake  at  once  in  a 
moderate  oven. 

STICK  DOUGH. 

One  cup  of  milk,  scalded.  Add  1-3  cup  of  butter,  2 
tablespoons  of  sugar,  y2  teaspoon  salt.  When  lukewarm 
add  the  white  of  1  egg  well  beaten  and  a  quarter  of  a 
yeast  cake  dissolved  in  3  tablespoons  of  lukewarm  water. 
Then  add  about  4  cups  of  flour  and  knead  about  10 
minutes.  Let  them  rise  in  a  cool  place.  If  desired  per- 
fectly dry,  bake  in  a  slow  oven,  but  if  liked  soft  inside, 
bake  in  an  oven  as  hot  as  for  bread.  Roll  into  round  balls, 
then  roll  long  with  no  flour  on  the  board. 
WATER  BREAD. 

One  table-spoon  lard  or  drippings,  1  teaspoon  salt,  2 


New  England  Cook  Book 

tablespoons  sugar,  2  cups  boiling  water,  about  6  or  7 
cups  of  flour.  Put  the  sugar,  salt,  lard  in  the  mixing 
bowl,  add  2  cups  of  boiling  water  to  dissolve  them. 
When  cool  add  y2  yeast  cake  dissolved  in  y2  cup  of 
lukewarm  water  and  stir  in  the  flour,  adding  it  gradually 
after  5  cups  are  used,  so  that  it  will  not  be  stiff;  use  just 
enough  to  knead,  until  smooth  and  elastic.  Cover,  let  it 
rise  over  night,  cut  it  down,  divide  into  four  parts,  shape 
into  loaves.  Let  it  rise  again  in  the  pans.  Bake  about 
1  hour. 

DOUGH  CAKES. 
Take  a  piece  of  bread  dough,  after  it  has  risen  and 
ready  to  be  put  into  the  pans,  flour  a  board,  roll  out  about 
Y*  inch  thick,  cut  in  squares.  Have  a  frying  pan,  about 
1-3  full  boiling  fat,  put  in  your  cakes  and  fry  until  brown, 
then  turn  and  fry  the  other  side,  remove  to  griddle  with- 
out being  greased,  put  in  oven,  cover,  and  let  them  cook 
slowly  for  10  minutes,  or  until  well  puffed  up.  Drain  on 
brown  paper,  and  serve  hot. 

PARKER  HOUSE  ROLLS. 
Pour  1  pint  of  scalded  milk  on  2  tablespoons  each  of 
butter  and  sugar  and  1  teaspoon  of  salt;  when  lukewarm 
add  y2  cup  of  yeast,  if  mixed  in  the  morning  and  %  if 
mixed  at  night.  Stir  in  3  cups  of  flour  and  beat  well. 
Let  it  rise  over  night  or,  if  mixed  in  the  day,  about  3 
hours ;  then  add  flour  till  stiff  enough  to  knead ;  knead 

9 


New  England  Cook  Book 


20  minutes.     Let  it  rise  until  double  its  size.     Shape  into 
rolls,  and  let  them  rise  in  the  pans. 

RAISED  BISCUITS. 

One  quart  of  bread  flour,  1  large  tablespoon  of  butter, 
or  lard,  2  tablespoons  sugar,  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  y2  cup  of 
yeast  or  x/2  yeast  cake  dissolved  in  y2  cup  of  lukewarm 
water,  a  bowlful  of  milk  and  water  or  enough  to  make  a 
stiff  batter.  Cover,  let  rise  over  night;  in  the  morning, 
roll  out  on  a  floured  board,  cut  into  rounds,  spread  with 
softened  butter,  put  two  together,  having  the  buttered 
sides  in  the  middle,  and  bake  15  or  20  minutes. 

Hints:  Gem  pans  should  be  heated  through,  then  but- 
tered and  placed  on  back  of  the  range  and  batter  put  in, 
giving  a  chance  to  rise,  before  putting  in  the  oven. 

Any  muffins  or  gems  may  be  baked  in  muffin  rings, 
placed  on  a  griddle  or  baking  pan,  and  cooked  a  little  on 
top  of  stove,  then  finish  baking  in  the  oven. 

GRAHAM  MUFFINS. 
Sift  1^2  cups  of  graham  flour,  y2  cup  of  white  flour, 
%  cup  of  sugar,  y2  teaspoon  salt,  4  teaspoons  baking 
powder  together.  Beat  1  egg,  add  1  cup  of  milk,  and  stir 
quickly  into  the  dry  ingredients.  Beat  thoroughly  and 
add  1  tablespoon  melted  butter.  Put  in  hot  gem  pans 
and  fill  to  the  top.     Bake  25  minutes. 

RICE  MUFFINS. 
Mix  2  cups  of  boiled  rice  with  2  cups  of  sweet  milk, 
beat  well,   add   the  yolks   of   3   eggs,   well   beaten.     In 

10 


New  England  Cook  Book 


another  bowl  sift  4  cups  of  flour  with  2  rounding  tea- 
spoons of  cream  of  tartar  and  1  level  teaspoon  of  soda,  1 
teaspoon  of  salt,  2  tablespoons  of  sugar.  Stir  the  first 
mixture  into  the  dry  ingredients  and  beat  well,  add  % 
cup  of  melted  butter  and  the  beaten  whites  and  bake  in 
greased  muffin  tins,  in  a  hot  oven,  for  15  or  20  minutes. 
If  baking  powder  is  used,  use  4  rounding  teaspoonfuls. 
This  recipe  can  be  halved,  and  baked  as  a  cake. 

RICE  MUFFINS.  (No.  2.) 
One  cup  of  flour,  1  cup  of  warmed  boiled  rice,  a  pinch 
of  salt,  2  rounding  teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  2  table- 
spoons of  sugar,  2  eggs,  y^  cup  of  butter  and  lard,  melted. 
Mix  flour,  salt,  sugar  and  baking  powder  together.  Beat 
the  egg,  and  add  ^2  cup  of  milk.  Stir  gradually  into  the 
flour.  When  it  is  a  smooth,  light  paste,  add  the  melted 
lard  and  rice.  If  not  thin  enough,  add  a  little  more 
milk.  Beat  thoroughly.  Bake  about  y2  hour.  This 
recipe  can  be  used  for  waffles. 

FRIED  RYE  MUFFINS. 
Three-quarters  cup  of  rye  meal,  24  CUP  °f  flour,  4  tea- 
spoons of  baking  powder,  1  tablespoon  sugar,  */£  teaspoon 
salt,  1  egg,  well  beaten,  y2  cup  of  sweet  milk.  Mix  in 
the  order  given,  beat  well  and  drop  from  a  small  table- 
spoon into  hot  fat.  Cook  until  the  muffins  will  not  stick 
when  tried  with  a  fork.  These  may  be  baked  by  adding 
2  tablespoons  of  melted  butter. 

11 


New  England  Cook   Book 


MEAL  MUFFINS. 

One  teacup  of  white  meal,  scald  it  thoroughly,  thin 
with  milk,  add  2  beaten  eggs,  2  heaping  tablespoons  of 
flour  and  2  heaping  teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  mixed 
together,  a  little  sugar,  pinch  of  salt  and  a  small  piece  of 
butter.     Bake  in  gem  pans. 

CORN  MEAL  PUFFS. 
Two  cups  of  sifted  corn  meal,  i  teaspoon  of  salt,  and  I 
teaspoon  of  sugar,  sift  again,  add  I  tablespoon  of  drip- 
pings, pour  over  this  a  pint  of  boiling  milk,  ]/*  teaspoon 
of  saleratus  (dissolved  in  a  little  warm  milk).  When 
the  dough  is  sufficiently  cooled,  add  1  large  beaten  egg, 
mix  well,  and  if  the  dough  is  not  soft  enough  add  a  little 
more  milk.     Bake  in  gem  pans  in  a  hot  oven. 

SALLY  LUNNS.     (Southern  recipe.) 

Two  eggs,  2  tea-cups  of  cream,  2  cups  of  granulated 
sugar,  1  teaspoon  of  cream  tartar,  1  pint  of  flour,  }4  pound 
of  butter,  1  teaspoon  mace.  Put  cream  and  butter  into  a 
heated  bowl,  to  be  warmed  together,  when  melted  pour 
into  the  well-beaten  eggs  and  sugar;  sift  the  flour,  mace 
and  cream  of  tartar,  mixed  together,  into  it  gradually. 
Beat  thoroughly  for  3  or  4  minutes.  Dissolve  l/z  tea- 
spoon soda  in  a  little  warm  water  and  mix  well.  Have 
the  pans  buttered,  then  stir  the  soda  in  quickly  to  the 
mixture,  put  into  the  oven  immediately,  before  the  effer- 
vescence ceases.    Bake  in  a  hot  oven  about  20  minutes. 

12 


New  England  Cook   Book 


BREAKFAST  GEMS. 
Mix  and  sift  together  I  cup  of  pastry  flour,  y2  tea- 
spoon of  salt  and  ^  of  a  cup  of  sugar.  Beat  the  yolks 
of  2  eggs  and  add  I  cup  of  rich  milk;  stir  into  the  dry 
ingredients.  Beat  the  whites  very  stiff  and  cut  in.  Bake 
in  hot  buttered  gem  pans  20  minutes. 

OLD  FASHIONED  JOHNNY  CAKES. 

One  quart  of  sifted  Indian  corn  meal,  1  scant  tea- 
spoon of  salt  and  1  teaspoon  of  sugar.  Sift  the  dry 
ingredients  together,  melt  1  tablespoon  of  butter  in  1 
quart  of  boiling  water  and  pour  over  the  meal.  If  the 
mixture  is  not  soft  enough,  add  a  little  more  boiling 
water.  Make  and  shape  like  fish  cakes.  Place  on  a 
well-greased  frying  pan,  bake  till  a  light  brown,  turn  and 
bake  the  other  side  till  well  browned.  Remove  from  fire 
and  place  in  the  oven  for  10  minutes,  to  puff  up,  and 
serve  very  hot. 

RHODE  ISLAND  JOHNNY  CAKE. 

Take  Y\  cup  meal,  1  teaspoon  of  salt  and  scald  thor- 
oughly with  boiling  water.  Thin  with  hot  milk  so  that 
it  will  drop  easily  from  spoon  on  to  a  hot  well-greased 
frying  pan.  Cook  over  a  moderate  fire,  and  when  brown 
on  one  side,  turn  and  brown  the  other.  (Add  more 
grease  if  necessary.) 

TO   STEAM  BREAD. 

Put  over  the  fire  a  large  saucepan  of  boiling  water, 
and  place  over  it  a  steamer.     Fill  steamer  with  stale 

13 


New  England  Cook  Book 


bread  or  biscuits.     Spread  over  the  bread  a   perfectly 
clean  cloth  and  steam  15  or  20  minutes.    Serve  piping  hot. 

POP  OVERS. 

Sift  1  cupful  of  flour  and  ]/\  teaspoon  of  salt  together, 
add  1  cup  of  milk  slowly  and  beat  with  an  egg  beater ; 
when  smooth,  add  1  beaten  egg.  Cook  in  hot  buttered 
(iron)  gem  pans  or  earthen  cups,  in  a  moderately  hot 
oven  for  half  an  hour,  or  until  they  are  crisp  and  dry. 

GRAHAM  GEMS. 
Coffee  cup  of  sour  milk,  level  teaspoon  of  soda,  2 
tablespoons  of  sugar,  3  tablespoons  meited  lard,  1  egg, 
graham  flour  enough  for  a  batter.  Yellow  corn  meal 
may  be  used  instead  of  graham.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven  for 
20  minutes. 

MUFFINS. 
One  pint  of  flour,  4  teaspoons  baking  powder,  ]/2  tea- 
spoon salt,  2  eggs,  y2  cup  of  milk,  %  cup  of  melted 
butter.  Sift  the  flour,  the  baking  powder  and  salt  together 
three  times.  Beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs,  add  the  milk  and 
pour  over  the  dry  ingredients.  Beat  well,  then  add 
melted  butter,  and  lastly  cut  in  the  whites  beaten  stiff. 
Bake  in  hot  gem  pans  about  25  minutes. 

WAFFLES. 
Beat  the  yolks  of  4  eggs,  add  1  quart  of  milk,  l/2  tea- 
spoon of  salt,  yi  of  a  pound  of  melted  butter,  and  flour 
enough  to  make  a  batter  not  very  thick.     Cut  in  the 

14 


New  England  Cook  Book 


whites,  beaten  stiff.     Heat  and  butter  the  irons  well,  fill 
and  bake  quickly.     Serve  with  butter  or  maple  syrup. 

RICE  WAFFLES. 
One  cup  of  rice  cooked  very  soft  and  mashed  fine,  Y\ 
of  a  pound  of  butter,  y2  teaspoon  of  salt,  the  beaten  yolks 
and  whites  of  4  eggs,  1  tablespoon  of  sugar  and  a  little 
nutmeg.  Flour  enough  to  make  a  batter.  Bake  as  for 
waffles. 

BOSTON  BROWN  BREAD. 

Measure  and  sift  1  cupful  each  of  rye  meal,  corn  meal 
and  graham  flour,  y2  teaspoon  salt,  and  1  heaping  tea- 
spoon of  soda  mashed  fine,  add  Y  cup  of  molasses  and 
2  cups  of  very  thick  sour  milk.  Beat  well,  pour  into  but- 
tered mould  and  steam  3^2  hours,  having  the  water  in 
the  kettle  boiling,  when  the  brown  bread  mould  is  put 
in,  and  have  enough  water  to  come  one-half  way  up  the 
side  of  the  mould.  Add  boiling  water  when  it  is  neces- 
sary to  replenish.  Remove  cover  and  place  in  the  oven 
for  10  minutes.  If  sweet  milk  be  used,  the  teaspoon  of 
soda  should  only  be  slightly  rounding. 

GERMAN  TOAST. 
Beat  1  egg  slightly  in  a  pudding  dish,  add  I  saltspoon 
salt,  1  tablespoon  sugar  and  1  cup  of  milk.  Have  ready 
4  or  5  slices  of  stale  bread,  and  soak  each  slice  in  this 
mixture  until  soft.  Have  a  griddle  hot  and  well  but- 
tered. Brown  them  on  one  side,  turn  and  place  a  piece 
of  butter  on  the  top  of  the  other  side  and  brown.     To  be 

15 


New  England  Cook  Book 


eaten  hot,  with  butter  or  sugar,  mixed  with  cinnamon. 
This  is  a  very  nice  and  convenient  way  of  using  up  stale 
bread. 

MILK  TOAST. 
One  pint  of  milk  scalded,  4  tablespoons  flour,  3  table- 
spoons of  butter,  x/2  teaspoon  salt,  6  slices  of  toast.  Scald 
the  milk,  put  the  butter  in  a  saucepan,  when  melted,  add 
the  flour,  salt  and  pepper  mixed  together,  stir  well,  add 
the  milk  gradually,  stirring  well.  Moisten  each  slice  with 
boiling  water  and  put  the  toast  in  a  hot  deep  dish;  then 
pour  over  the  thickened  milk.  Keep  the  dish  over  hot 
water  until  ready  to  serve. 

MELISSA'S  CORN  CAKES. 
I  quart  of  sifted  white  Indian  meal,  a  saltspoon  of 
salt.  Mix  the  two  ingredients  together  and  sift  again, 
then  pour  on  a  pint  of  boiling  milk  or  enough  to  make  a 
soft  dough,  stir  it  vigorously  and  add  %  of  a  pound  of 
butter;  let  it  cool.  Beat  4  eggs  lightly,  and  when  the 
dough  is  sufficiently  cooled,  turn  them  gradually  into  the 
mixture.  Pour  into  well-greased  gem  pans  and  bake 
well  in  a  moderate  oven  for  40  or  45  minutes.  Serve 
them  very  hot  with  butter  or  maple  sugar. 

SOUR  MILK  CORN  CAKE. 

I  cup  of  flour,  l/2  cup  of  corn  meal,  l/2  teaspoon  salt, 

y2  teaspoon  of  soda   (mashed),  1  cup  of  sour  milk,  1 

egg  and  2  tablespoons  of  drippings.     Sift  and  mix  the 

dry  ingredients  together.    Beat  the  egg  very  light  and  add 

16 


New  England  Cook  Book 


the  milk,  pour  into  the  dry  ingredients  and  beat  well, 
lastly  add  the  drippings,  melted.  Beat  well,  bake  in  a 
shallow  pan,  about  25  minutes,  in  a  hot  oven. 

CORN  CAKE. 

One  pint  of  milk,  corn  meal  enough  to  make  it  the 
consistency  of  sponge  cake,  1  egg,  2  teaspoons  of  baking 
powder,  1  saltspoon  of  salt,  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  melt- 
ed. Mix  in  the  order  given  and  beat  thoroughly.  Bake 
in  a  hot  oven  for  25  minutes. 

BAKING  POWDER  BISCUITS. 

Sift  1  quart  of  flour,  1  teaspoon  of  salt  and  2  teaspoons 
of  sugar,  4  teaspoons  of  baking  powder  together.  Stir 
and  rub  in  6  tablespoons  of  butter.  Add  milk  enough  to 
make  a  soft  dough  (about  1  pint).  When  stiff  enough 
to  handle,  roll  out  in  a  sheet  Yz  inch  thick.  Cut  in 
rounds.  Place  slightly  apart  on  greased  pans,  brush  the 
tops  with  milk,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  for  10  or  12 
minutes. 

CORN  BREAD.  (No.  2.) 
Sift  1  cup  of  flour,  x/z  cup  of  sugar,  1  saltspoon  salt,  3 
rounding  teaspoons  of  baking  powder.  Beat  3  eggs  sepa- 
rately and  add  1  quart  of  milk  to  the  beaten  yolks,  and 
stir  into  the  dry  mixture.  Thicken  with  Indian  meal  to 
make  a  batter  and  beat  well.  Cut  in  beaten  whites,  add 
4  tablespoons  of  melted  butter.  Bake  in  flat  pan  about 
25  minutes. 

17 


New  England  Cook  Book 


RAISED   SALLY   LUNN. 

One  quart  of  flour,  i  teaspoon  of  salt,  2  tablespoons 
sugar,  ^2  cup  of  yeast,  3  eggs,  yolk  and  whites  beaten 
separately,  and  milk  enough  to  make  a  drop  batter.  If 
intended  for  tea,  allow  6  hours  to  rise,  then  add  2  table- 
spoons butter,  melted.  When  well  mixed,  fill  muffin  pan 
two-thirds  full.  Let  them  rise  about  20  minutes,  and 
bake  in  a  hot  oven  about  20  minutes.  If  intended  for 
breakfast,  make  a  batter  of  salt,  sugar,  flour,  yeast  and 
milk  and  keep  in  a  cool  place.  In  the  morning  add  the 
eggs. 

CORN  MUFFINS. 

Mix  together  2  cups  of  sifted  corn  meal,  1  teaspoon 
sugar,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder  and  1  teaspoon  salt. 
Scald  with  1  quart  of  boiling  milk,  and  when  slightly 
cool  add  the  yolks  and  whites  of  4  eggs,  beaten  separately, 
1  tablespoon  butter,  melted.  Bake  in  buttered  gem  pans, 
heated,  25  minutes. 

PUFFS. 
Three  coffee  cups  of  flour,  1  teaspoon  of  soda  (mashed 
fine),  2  rounding  teaspoons  cream  tartar,  butter  size  of 
an  egg,   1   egg  well  beaten,   1   cup  of  milk.     Bake  like 
muffins  in  a  hot  oven. 

HOMINY  CAKE. 
One-half  cup  of  warm  boiled  hominy,  1  cup  of  milk, 
1  cup  of  flour,  3  teaspoons  baking  powder,  y2  teaspoon 
of  salt,  2  tablespoons  of  butter,  2  teaspoons  sugar  and  2 

18 


New  England  Cook  Book 


eggs.  Sift  and  mix  all  the  dry  ingredients  together.  Mix 
the  butter  into  the  hominy,  pour  milk  into  the  beaten 
eggs  and  add  to  the  hominy.  Then  add  the  dry  ingre- 
dients and  beat  well.  If  not  stiff  enough  for  a  drop  bat- 
ter, add  a  little  more  flour.  Pour  batter  into  a  shallow 
pan  and  bake  y2  hour,  or  it  may  be  baked  in  muffin 
pans  instead.  Part  flour  and  corn  meal  may  be  used 
instead  of  all  flour,  to  give  variety. 

SPIDER  CORN   CAKE. 

Mix  and  sift  together  I  1-3  cups  of  Indian  corn  meal, 
1-3  cup  of  white  flour,  2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  2 
tablespoons  of  sugar,  1  teaspoon  salt.  Beat  2  eggs  very 
light,  add  1  pint  of  sweet  milk ;  stir  this  into  the  dry  mix- 
ture. Melt  2  tablespoons  butter  in  a  spider  or  shallow 
round  pan,  and  pour  the  mixture  into  it,  then  pour  over 
1  cup  of  sweet  miilk,  but  do  not  stir.  Bake  about  30 
minutes,  in  a  hot  oven.  When  done  it  should  have  a 
streak  of  custard  through  it,  and  must  be  cut  and  served 
on  hot  plates. 

NEVER  FAIL  CORN  CAKE. 

Three-quarters  of  a  cup  of  corn  meal,  1%  cups  of 
flour,  2  heaping  teaspoons  baking  powder,  2  heaping  table- 
spoons sugar,  y2  teaspoon  salt,  1  generous  cup  of  milk, 
1  large  egg,  well  beaten,  2  tablespoons  melted  butter.  Sift 
dry  ingredients  together  twice,  mix  thoroughly,  add  the 
milk  to  the  beaten  egg,  and  pour  on  slowly,  then  add 
melted  butter.     Beat  well,  and  bake  in  shallow  pan,  in 

19 


New  England  Cook  Book 


a  hot  oven,  at  least  25  minutes.  By  using  4  tablespoons 
of  butter,  the  egg  may  be  omitted,  and  will  be  found  to 
be  very  good. 

HOE  CAKE. 

Put  1  cup  of  corn  meal,  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  into  a  gran- 
ite dish.  Scald  with  boiling  water;  pour  on  enough  to 
make  it  stiff,  but  thoroughly  wet.  Add  1  large  table- 
spoon butter  and  let  the  mixture  cook  on  top  of  stove  for 
10  minutes,  stirring  to  prevent  burning.  Butter  a  pan 
and  spread  mush  on  it,  1  inch  thick.  Dot  over  with  small 
pieces  of  butter,  and  bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven  from 
45  minutes  to  1  hour.  The  crust  should  be  brown  and 
crisp,  and  the  inside  soft  and  white. 

SOUTHERN  CORN  CAKE. 
Sift  and  mix  together  1  pint  of  corn  meal,  1  teaspoon 
soda,  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  2  teaspoons  sugar.  Stir  in  2 
cups  of  sour  milk,  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  melted,  beat  2 
eggs,  yolks  and  whites  separately,  and  add  to  the  mix- 
ture. Beat  thoroughly  and  bake  in  shallow  pans,  in  a 
very  hot  oven,  for  30  minutes. 

OATMEAL  CAKE. 

One-half  cup  of  corn  meal,  Yz  cup  of  cooked  oatmeal, 
1  cup  of  flour,  5  teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  *^  tea- 
spoon of  salt,  2  tablespoons  of  sugar,  1  scant  cup  of  milk, 
1  egg  and  2  tablespoons  of  butter.  Mix  corn  meal,  flour, 
salt,  sugar  and  baking  powder  together ;  beat  the  egg,  add 
the  milk,  and  stir  into  the  dry  ingredients,  then  add  the 

20 


New  England  Cook  Book 


hot  oatmeal  and  melted  butter.  Beat  well  and  bake  in  a 
shallow  pan  for  25  minutes.     This  is  delicious. 

ABOUT   GRIDDLE   CAKE   BATTER. 

Hint:  If  you  can  drop  a  spoonful  of  the  batter  into 
the  bowl  containing  the  batter,  and  it  lies  on  the  sur- 
face, in  a  smooth  heap,  and  only  gradually  sinks,  you 
have  the  right  consistency.  If  it  lies  in  a  heap,  but  has 
stiff,  ragged  edges,  it  needs  more  wetting. 

Let  the  batter  stand  for  5  minutes  before  frying  cakes. 

Muffins  and  griddle  cakes  should  be  made  light,  by 
using  butter  or  cream  instead  of  a  number  of  eggs,  which 
toughen  it  instead. 

Sour  milk  is  best  for  griddle  cakes. 

Pastry  flour  should  be  used  with  baking  powder ;  bread 
flour  in  all  recipes  where  yeast  is  used. 

The  griddle  must  be  merely  greased  by  rubbing  a  piece 
of  salt  pork  lightly  over  it  when  hot,  then  pour  the  batter 
on  at  once. 

BREAD  GRIDDLE  CAKES.    (No.  2.) 

One  pint  of  stale  bread  crumbs,  1  pint  of  scalded  milk, 

1  heaping  tablespoon  butter.  Pour  the  hot  milk  over  the 
crumbs,  add  the  butter  and  soak  over  night  or  until 
crumbs  are  soft.     Rub  through  a  coarse  strainer,  and  add 

2  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  beaten  separately,  and  1  cup  of 
flour  in  which  Yz  teaspoon  salt  and  4  teaspoons  of  baking 
powder  have  been  sifted,  and  cold  milk  to  thin.  Bake 
slowly  on  a  hot  griddle.     Serve  with  sugar  and  butter. 

21 


New  England  Cook  Book 


BREAD    GRIDDLE   CAKES. 

One  coffee  cup  of  bread  crumbs,  4  cups  of  flour,  2^2 
heaping  teaspoons  baking  powder,  3  eggs,  beaten  sepa- 
rately, and  sweet  milk  to  make  a  thin  batter.  These 
should  not  be  made  with  sour  milk  and  soda. 

RICE  OR  HOMINY  GRIDDLE  CAKES. 

Mix  together  1  cup  of  hot  boiled  rice,  1  cup  of  sweet 
milk,  y2  teaspoon  of  salt ;  add  the  beaten  yolks  of  2  eggs 
and  2  tablespoons  of  melted  butter,  then  add  %.  cup  of 
corn  meal  and  about  ^  of  a  cup  of  pastry  flour  mixed 
and  sifted  with  2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder.  Lastly 
add  the  whites  beaten  stiff.  Fry  on  a  hot  buttered  grid- 
dle. Cold  boiled  rice  may  be  used,  but  must  be  warmed 
in  butter.     Pack  solidly. 

SOUR  MILK  GRIDDLE  CAKES. 

One  pint  of  lobbered  milk,  1  egg,  l/2  teaspoon  of  salt, 

1  to  i]/2  teaspoons  of  bi-carbonate  of  soda,  tablespoon 
of  melted  butter  and  flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff  batter 
(about  2l/2  cups).  Fry  on  a  smoking  hot  griddle.  The 
rule  is  to  use  enough  soda  to  make  the  milk  sweet.  One- 
half  cup  of  corn  meal  and  2  cups  of  flour  may  be  used 
instead  of  all  flour. 

GRAHAM  GRIDDLE  CAKES. 

Sift  l/2  cup  of  graham  flour,  1  cupful  of  pastry  flour, 

2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  %  teaspoon  of  salt,  \l/2 
tablespoons  of  sugar.  Mix  together  and  add  1  beaten 
egg,  mixed  with  1%  cups  of  milk  and  %  cup  of  melted 

22 


New  England  Cook  Book 


butter.     Fry  on  a  hot  buttered  griddle  and  serve  at  once, 
with  syrup. 

INDIAN  MEAL  GRIDDLE  CAKES. 
Sift  i  cup  of  meal,  il/i  cups  of  flour,  i  teaspoon  soda 
and  i  saltspoon  of  salt  together  and  mix.  Beat  2  eggs, 
add  1  pint  of  sour  milk  or  buttermilk,  and  add  to  the  first 
mixture.  Beat  thoroughly  for  3  or  4  minutes,  then  pour 
on  2  tablespoons  of  melted  butter.  Bake  on  a  very  hot 
griddle  to  a  nice  brown.  Serve  with  maple  syrup.  If 
sweet  milk  be  used,  use  3  teaspoons  of  baking  powder. 

OATMEAL  GRIDDLE  CAKES. 
Sift  and  mix  1  cup  of  flour,  y2  cup  of  corn  meal,  2 
slightly  rounding  teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  Yz  tea- 
spoon of  salt,  2  tablespoons  of  sugar  together;  beat  1 
egg,  add  ]/2  cup  of  milk,  and  add  to  the  dry  ingredients, 
then  mix  in  3^  cup  of  hot  cooked  oatmeal  and  2  table- 
spoons of  butter  (melted).  Add  enough  more  milk  to 
make  a  thin  batter.  Bake  on  a  hot  greased  griddle ;  turn 
when  full  of  bubbles  and  bake  on  the  other  side  until 
brown. 

PUMPKIN  GRIDDLE  CAKES. 
One  cup  of  steamed  and  sifted  pumpkin,  1  cup  of 
milk,  %  cup  of  sugar,  pinch  of  salt,  1  egg  beaten,  1  heap- 
ing cup  of  flour,  mixed  and  sifted,  with  1  rounding  tea- 
spoon of  baking  powder,  and  %  cup  of  melted  butter. 
If  cold  pumpkin  be  used,  heat  in  a  saucepan,  adding  2 
tablespoons  of  water. 

23 


New  England  Cook  Book 


OLD  FASHIONED  PAN  CAKES. 
Scald  i  cup  of  Indian  meal  and  I  cup  of  rye  meal  thor- 
oughly with  boiling  water,  add  a  pinch  of  salt,  2  table- 
spoons of  butter,  the  beaten  yolks  of  2  eggs  and  y2  cup 
of  sour  milk.  Then  add  1  cup  of  flour  mixed  with  1  salt- 
spoon  of  saleratus,  and  beat  well ;  lastly  the  beaten  whites 
and  enough  more  milk  to  make  a  thin  batter.  Fry  on  a 
hot  griddle  and  serve  at  once,  with  butter  or  syrup. 

SWEET  PAN  CAKES. 
Sift  and  mix  together  il/2  cups  of  flour,  2  teaspoons 
of  baking  powder.  Beat  the  yolks  and  whites  of  4  eggs, 
separately.  Add  1  pint  of  milk  to  the  yolks,  a  pinch  of 
salt,  and  2  tablespoons  of  powdered  sugar.  Pour  a  little 
of  this  on  the  dry  mixture,  and  stir  to  a  smooth  paste. 
Add  the  remainder  of  the  milk  and  beat  well ;  then  add  2 
tablespoons  of  melted  butter.  If  needed,  add  more  flour 
to  make  a  moderately  thin  batter.  Lastly  add  the  beaten 
whites.  Heat  and  butter  a  small  griddle,  and  butter  each 
as  it  comes  from  the  fire.  Place  four  in  a  pile,  spread 
jelly  over  each  one,  roll  up,  and  sprinkle  with  powdered 
sugar. 

PANCAKES.  (No.  2). 
Take  1  pint  of  sifted  flour,  2  slightly  rounding  tea- 
spoons baking  powder,  l/2  teaspoon  salt.  Sift  three  times 
and  mix  well.  Add  milk  enough  to  make  a  stiff  batter 
(about  1  cup),  then  add  1  teaspoon  melted  butter,  or  1 
tablespoon    of    cream.     Beat    vigorously.      Lastly,    the 

24 


New  England  Cook  Book 


white  of  i  beaten  egg.     Fry  on  a  hot  griddle  and  serve 
at  once. 

BUCKWHEAT  CAKES. 
Dissolve  Yz  yeast  cake  in  lukewarm  water,  sift  in  2-3 
of  a  cup  of  corn  meal,  2  heaping  cups  of  buckwheat  flour 
and  a  little  salt.  Mix  well ;  get  batter  thin  enough  to 
pour.  Let  rise  over  night,  in  the  morning  stir  well,  add  I 
tablespoon  molasses,  ]/\  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  %. 
cup  of  lukewarm  water,  and  cook  as  griddle  cakes.  Save 
about  ]/2  cup  of  the  mixture  in  a  pitcher,  fill  with  luke- 
warm water,  and  turn  off  the  water  every  day,  using  the 
Yi  cup  to  raise  the  batter  instead  of  a  fresh  cake. 

BUCKWHEAT  CAKES.  (No.  2.) 
Pour  1  cup  of  boiling  water  on  2  heaping  tablespoons 
of  corn  meal,  add  1  saltspoon  of  salt,  mix  well,  and  when 
lukewarm  add  1  yeast  cake  dissolved  in  lukewarm  water 
and  1  pint  of  buckwheat  flour.  Beat  vigirously.  Let 
rise  over  night ;  in  the  morning  stir  down  and  beat  again. 
When  risen  add  2  tablespoons  of  molasses  and  %  tea- 
spoon soda.  Beat  again  and  fry.  Serve  with  maple 
syrup.  Reserve  l/>  cup  of  the  batter  to  raise  another 
mixing  instead  of  using  yeast  cake. 

TEA. 

The  water  should  be  freshly  boiled  that  is  to  be  used 

in  making  tea.     Scald  and  heat  the  teapot  and  put  in  the 

tea,  allowing  1  teaspoon  for  each  cup  and  1  extra  one, 

let  stand  on  back  of  range  for  a  few  minutes ;  then  pour 

25 


New  England  Cook  Book 


on  boiling  water,  cover  closely  and  place  it  where  it  will 
keep  hot,  but  not  boil,  for  5  minutes.     Serve  at  once. 

RUSSIAN  TEA. 
Put  the  tea  into  a  fine  strainer ;  pour  y2  a  cup  of  boil- 
ing water  over  it  to  cleanse  the  grounds;  then  turn  into 
a  teapot  which  has  been  scalded,  and  pour  on  freshly 
boiling  water,  in  the  proportion  of  I  cup  of  water  for 
each  tablespoon  of  tea.  Keep  hot  for  5  minutes.  A 
slice  of  lemon  and  1  preserved  strawberry  is  allowed  for 
each  cup.  Sugar  may  be  added  if  liked,  but  never  milk. 
Serve  hot  or  cold. 

CHOCOLATE. 

Take  an  ounce  of  chocolate  for  each  cup.  Melt  over 
boiling  water,  pour  on  1  cup  of  sweet  milk,  scalded ;  add 
sugar  to  taste  and  set  over  boiling  water  for  5  minutes. 
If  a  saucepan  be  used,  place  where  the  fire  is  not  too  hot 
and  stir  while  it  simmers  slowly  for  5  minutes.  The 
chocolate  may  first  be  grated  and  dissolved  in  cold  milk, 
until  smooth,  if  preferred.  Take  egg  beater  and  whip 
the  mixture  until  it  is  a  creamy  smoothness.  Whip  some 
cream  and  pile  on  top  of  the  chocolate  in  each  cup. 

COFFEE. 

Scald  a  granite  or  agate  coffee  pot.  Mix  1  cup  of 
coffee,  1  egg,  cold  water  to  moisten.  Add  6  cups  of  boil- 
ing water  and  boil  5  minutes ;  add  1  cup  of  cold  water 
and  place  where  it  will  keep  hot,  but  not  boil.  Serve 
with  cream  or  hot  milk. 

26 


New  England  Cook  Book 


COFFEE.     (No.  2.) 

Scald  the  coffee  pot  and  put  in  $4  cup  of  coffee  and  6 
cups  of  cold  water  and  I  teaspoon  of  sugar.  Stir  and 
cover  closely,  putting  a  stopper  in  the  spout ;  let  stand 
over  night,  about  12  hours.  In  the  morning  place  over 
the  fire,  and  when  it  comes  to  a  boil  it  is  ready  for  use. 
Do  not  let  it  boil  longer,  as  that  weakens  the  coffee. 
Serve  with  hot  milk.  The  sugar  may  be  omitted  if 
desired. 

FILTERED  COFFEE. 

Put  1  cup  of  coffee  in  the  top  of  a  French  coffee  pot. 
Pour  on  4  cups  of  boiling  water;  keep  the  coffee  pot 
where  it  will  keep  hot,  but  not  boil.  When  all  the  water 
has  been  used,  pour  it  through  again.  Serve  it  with  hot 
milk  and  cream  and  loaf  sugar. 
COCOA. 

Scald  1  pint  of  milk;  mix  2  tablespoons  of  cocoa,  2 
tablespoons  sugar,  a  dash  of  salt  and  1  cup  of  boiling 
water;  stir  until  smooth,  then  boil  5  or  10  minutes.  Add 
scalded  milk,  beat  well  with  an  egg  beater  and  serve  at 
once,  otherwise  the  scum  will  form  on  the  top. 


27 


CHAPTER  II. 

Soups  and  Chowders 

SOUP   STOCK. 

Six  pounds  of  lean  beef,  from  the  lower  part  of  round, 
wind  with  twine,  to  keep  from  falling  to  pieces,  and  4 
quarts  of  cold  water.  When  the  water  boils  add  2  car- 
rots cut  up  fine,  2  leeks,  1  onion  stuck  with  4  cloves  and 
1  turnip.  The  head  and  neck  of  a  chicken  may  be  added 
if  on  hand.  Boil  slowly  for  6  hours.  Remove  from  fire 
and  strain.  Put  away  in  a  cool  place.  When  needed, 
skim  off  the  grease  and  place  on  fire  to  boil.  Season 
with  salt  and  pepper.  A  shin  bone  may  be  used  in  place 
of  the  round. 

BOUILLON. 

Wipe  and  cut  3  pounds  of  lean  meat  and  a  bone  weigh- 
ing about  1  pound  and  3  quarts  of  water,  1  medium-sized 
turnip,  2  medium-sized  carrots,  10  or  12  sprigs  of  parsley, 
1  or  2  celery  leaves,  3  large  leeks.  Scrape  the  carrot, 
pare  the  turnip,  cut  off  the  heads  of  the  leeks  and  remove 
decayed  leaves,  then  cut  them  crosswise ;  wash  them  all 
in  2  or  3  waters.  When  well  washed  put  in  a  dish  with 
water  until  needed.  Put  meat,  bone  and  cold  water  on 
to  boil  slowly  with  1  teaspoon  of  salt.  When  the  scum 
begins  to  rise,  skim  at  once  or  the  bouillon  will  not  be 

28 


New  England  Cook  Book 


celery,  leeks  and  parsley  together,  add  these  to  the  soup, 
together  with  the  carrot  and  turnip,  and  add  the  leeks 
within  2^2  hours  before  the  end  of  the  cooking,  they  not 
taking  as  long  as  the  other  vegetables.  Simmer  5  hours. 
If  liked  dark,  use  1  teaspoon  of  Parisian  essence  or  cara- 
mel coloring.  When  done,  strain,  remove  the  fat,  if  any, 
and  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Set  away  when  cold  to 
a  cool  place. 

VIRGINIA  SOUP. 
One  cup  of  cooked  chicken  meat,  1  pint  of  white  stock, 

1  cup  of  hot  cream,  ^2  cup  of  cracker  crumbs,  yolks  of 

2  hard-boiled  eggs,  y2  teaspoon  of  salt,  x/2  saltspoon  of 
salt,  y2  saltspoon  of  paprika,  and  1  saltspoon  of  mace  or 
nutmeg.  Chop  the  chicken  in  a  tray,  add  a  few  drops  of 
onion  juice  and  the  stock,  and  put  on  to  boil  in  a  stew- 
pan,  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  mace.  Mash  the 
yolks  of  the  eggs  fine,  and  mix  them  with  the  cracker 
crumbs,  which  have  been  soaked  until  soft  in  y2  cup  of 
milk,  add  the  hot  cream,  turn  into  the  soup.  Cook  10 
minutes.  Strain  and  serve  with  croutons.  This  is  like 
a  puree. 

LOBSTER    BISQUE. 

Remove  the  meat  from  3  lobsters,  and  cut  the  tender 
part  into  small  dice.  Put  the  claw  meat  and  any  other 
tough  parts  with  the  bones  of  the  body  into  1  pint  of 
cold  water  and  boil  15  minutes,  adding  more  water  as  it 
boils  away.     Scald  3  pints  of  cream,     Melt  l/i  cup  of 

29 


New  England  Cook  Book 


butter,  add  6  tablespoons  of  flour,  i  teaspoon  of  mustard, 
clear,  and  continue  doing  it  every  few  minutes.  When 
the  soup  begins  to  boil,  put  in  an  onion,  in  which  you 
have  stuck  4  cloves ;  then  tie  the  green  leaves  of  the 
1  teaspoon  of  sugar,  y2  teaspoon  of  salt,  1  tablespoon 
of  vinegar,  a  dash  of  cayenne  pepper,  the  strained  water 
from  the  bones  and  the  tender  meat,  and  turn  into  the 
cream,  and  cook  10  minutes.  Serve  at  once.  The  coral 
may  be  dried  in  the  oven  and  rubbed  through  a  strainer 
and  enough  added  to  the  soup  to  give  it  a  pink  color. 

ST.  GERMAINE  SOUP. 
Put  1  can  of  peas  or  1  quart  of  fresh  in  a  stew-pan, 
cover  with  water,  a  bit  of  bay  leaf,  1  sprig  of  parsley, 
1  saltspoon  of  nutmeg,  y2  teaspoon  sugar,  y2  teaspoon 
of  salt,  ]/2  saltspoon  of  pepper,  y2  onion,  cooked  in  1 
tablespoon  of  butter.  Add  to  the  soup  and  simmer  45 
minutes.  Stir  in  1  pint  of  white  stock,  the  yolk  of  I  tgg, 
1  teaspoon  of  salt,  y2  saltspoon  pepper  and  y  saltspoon 
of  nutmeg.  Press  through  a  sieve  and  return  to  the  fire 
and  add  2  tablespoons  of  butter  and  2  tablespoons  of 
corn-starch,  cooked  together ;  let  it  come  to  the  boiling 
point  and  add  1  cup  of  hot  cream  or  milk.  Serve  with 
toasted  crackers. 

CREAM   OF   CHESTNUT   SOUP. 
Shell  and  blanch  2  pounds  of  chestnuts,  cook  in  1  quart 
of  water  until  tender.     Rub  through  a  sieve,  add  1  pint 
of  chicken  stock,  put  on  to  simmer  for  15  minutes.    Melt 


New  England  Cook  Book 


2  tablespoons  of  butter,  add  2  tablespoons  of  flour,  pour 
on  1  pint  of  hot  milk;  season  with  1  teaspoon  of  parsley, 
1  teaspoon  of  celery  salt  and  a  dash  of  paprika  or  cayenne 
and  nutmeg.  Stir  into  the  hot  soup  and  cook  for  5 
minutes.     Add  1  cup  of  whipped  cream  and  serve  hot. 

POTATO   SOUP. 

Parboil  8  medium  sized  potatoes  for  5  minutes ;  drain. 
Put  on  to  boil  again,  with  3  cups  of  boiling  water,  and 
1  tablespoon  of  salt,  2  onions  sliced,  1  slice  of  turnip  cut 
in  cubes  and  1  bunch  of  celery  cut  fine.  Boil  slowly  for 
il/2  hours  or  until  the  potatoes  are  very  soft.  Mash 
through  a  sieve ;  melt  2  tablespoons  of  butter ;  add  2  table- 
spoons of  flour,  %  tablespoon  mace  or  nutmeg,  %.  salt- 
spoon  of  pepper  and  1  teaspoon  of  salt.  Stir  into  the 
soup  and  boil  5  minutes.  Add  2  cups  of  hot  cream  or 
milk  and  more  seasoning  if  needed,  and  a  little  chopped 
parsley.  This  soup  should  be  of  the  consistency  of  thick 
cream. 

POTATO  SOUP.  (No.  2.) 
Cook  6  medium  sized  potatoes,  in  boiling  salted  water, 
until  soft ;  drain,  then  rub  through  a  strainer.  Scald  1 
quart  of  milk,  add  a  slice  or  two  of  onion,  then  strain  into 
the  potatoes.  Melt  3  tablespoons  of  butter  in  a  sauce- 
pan, add  2  tablespoons  flour,  a  dash  of  cayenne,  a  little 
celery  salt,  nutmeg,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Stir  until 
well  mixed  and  then  pour  into  the  boiling  soup.     Cook  5 

31 


New  England  Cook  Book 


minutes;  strain  and  sprinkle  in  I  teaspoon  of  chopped 
parsley. 

TOMATO  CLAM  SOUP. 
Wash  \y2  pints  of  clams,  add  I  cup  of  water;  strain. 
Chop  the  hard  part  of  the  clams  fine,  add  to  it  the  clam 
water  and  i  pint  of  tomatoes,  I  slice  of  onion,  I  teaspoon 
of  salt  and  a  few  sprigs  of  celery.  Cook  20  minutes. 
Strain.  Add  }i  teaspoon  of  soda.  Melt  4  tablespoons  of 
butter,  add  2  tablespoons  of  flour,  add  to  the  tomatoes 
and  also  the  soft  part  of  the  clams.  Cook  slowly 
10  minutes  then  add  1  pint  of  milk,  salt  and  pepper. 

TOMATO  SOUP. 

One  quart  can  of  tomatoes,  1  pint  of  hot  water,  2 
cloves,  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  1  saltspoon  pepper  and  2  tea- 
spoons of  sugar,  1  red  pepper,  cut  up  fine  and  free  from 
seeds,  a  pinch  of  bi-carbonate  of  soda.  Boil  all  together 
for  2  hours.  Melt  4  tablespoons  of  butter,  add  2  table- 
spoons of  chopped  onion,  the  same  of  parsley ;  when  pale 
yellow  add  4  tablespoons  of  flour;  stir  into  the  tomatoes. 
Let  simmer  15  minutes.  Add  more  salt  and  pepper  if 
needed.     Strain  and  serve  with  toasted  crackers. 

TOMATO  SOUP.  (No.  2.) 
Put  into  a  granite  stewpan  1  can  tomatoes,  2  quarts 
cold  water,  pinch  of  soda,  1  onion  sliced  fine,  1  bay  leaf 
and  a  few  celery  leaves  or  stalks ;  when  it  comes  to  a 
boil,  set  back  on  range  and  simmer.  After  simmering  2 
hours,  add  y2  cup  of  washed  rice  and  cook  slowly  until 

32 


New  England  Cook  Book 


rice  is  tender.  Add  1-3  cup  of  butter;  season  with  1 
tablespoon  sugar,  y2  teaspoon  cloves,  pepper  and  salt  to 
taste.  This  is  like  a  puree.  If  too  thick  add  more  hot 
water.  Serve  hot  with  toasted  crackers.  A  ham  bone 
cooked  with  it  improves  it. 

CRECY  SOUP. 

Wash,  scrape  and  cut  into  cubes  12  fine  young  carrots. 
Cook  in  2  teaspoons  of  butter  with  1  tablespoon  of  raw 
chopped  ham,  1  onion,  y2  turnip,  a  bay  leaf,  sweet  mar- 
joram, a  blade  of  mace  and  parsley.  Stir  while  cooking ; 
add  1  quart  of  stock;  simmer  \y2  hours.  Melt  1  table- 
spoon of  butter,  add  1  tablespoon  of  flour,  y2  tea- 
spoon of  salt,  y2  saltspoon  pepper ;  pour  on  the  hot  stock. 
Simmer  5  minutes.     Strain  and  serve  with  croutons. 

BLACK  BEAN  SOUP. 

Soak  1  pint  of  black  beans  over  night.  Pour  off  the 
water  and  put  on  to  boil  in  2  quarts  of  fresh  water,  % 
teaspoon  soda,  y  pound  raw  ham,  cut  up,  1  teaspoon  of 
allspice,  4  cloves,  parsley  and  thyme.  Brown  1  onion  in 
2  tablespoons  of  butter  and  add  to  the  soup.  Simmer 
4  hours  or  until  beans  are  soft.  Add  a  little  cold  water 
as  it  boils  away,  so  as  to  have  about  2  quarts  when  done. 
Press  through  a  sieve,  add  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  l/2  saltspoon 
pepper,  a  dash  of  cayenne,  1  lemon,  1  hard  boiled  egg, 
y2  wineglass  of  sherry  wine.     Wine  may  be  omitted. 

33 


New  England  Cook  Book 


ONION  SOUP. 

Six  medium  sized  onions,  cut  fine ;  fry  in  2  tablespoons 
of  butter,  but  do  not  let  them  brown;  1  quart  of  cold 
water,  1  bunch  of  parsley.  Boil  till  soft — about  2  hours. 
Strain  and  add  1  quart  of  milk,  and  thicken  with  2 
tablespoons  of  corn  starch  or  4  tablespoons  of  flour  dis- 
solved in  2  tablespoons  of  cold  water.  Cook  10  minutes 
and,  just  before  serving,  add  6  tablespoons  of  butter. 
White  stock  may  be  used  instead  of  butter,  in  which  case 
it  should  be  cooked  another1  hour. 

TURNIP  SOUP. 

Boil  3  large  turnips  until  soft,  and  mash  in  the  water 
in  which  they  were  cooked.  Rub  through  a  coarse  strainer 
and  add  enough  stock  to  make  it  the  consistency  of  thick 
cream.  Boil  all  together  for  10  minutes.  Season  with 
salt,  sugar  and  black  pepper  or  a  few  pods  of  red  pepper 
to  taste.     Serve  very  hot. 

OKRA   SOUP.     (Southern  recipe.) 

Cut  up  in  small  pieces  *4  peck  of  okra.  Skin  y2  peck 
tomatoes  and  put  them  with  10  pounds  of  shin  or  leg  of 
beef  into  10  quarts  of  cold  water.  Simmer  for  7  hours, 
skimming  often.  Strain  through  a  coarse  strainer  and 
season  with  salt  and  black  or  cayenne  pepper.  A  ham  bone 
boiled  with  the  other  ingredients  is  considered  an  im- 
provement by  some  people.     Reheat  and  serve. 

34 


New  England  Cook  Book 


SALMON  SOUP. 
Remove  the  contents  of  a  can  of  salmon;  place  in  a 
bowl  and  let  it  become  aerated  for  i  hour.  Remove 
skin  and  bones  and  rub  through  a  strainer;  season  with 
salt  and  pepper.  Put  a  slice  of  onion  and  2  quarts  of 
milk  on  to  cook  in  a  double  boiler ;  melt  y2  cup  of  butter, 
add  l/\  cup  of  flour  and  pour  on  the  hot  milk.  Strain, 
add  the  fish,  reheat  and  serve  at  once.  This  recipe  may 
be  halved. 

CELERY  SOUP. 

Boil  1  head  of  celery,  cut  into  small  pieces,  in  a  pint  of 
water  45  minutes;  put  1  pint  of  milk,  a  small  piece  of 
mace  and  1  slice  of  onion  on  to  cook  in  a  double  boiler ; 
mix  1  tablespoon  of  flour  with  2  tablespoons  melted  butter 
until  smooth,  and  add  to  boiling  milk.  Cook  10  minutes. 
Mash  celery  in  water  in  which  it  was  cooked  and  stir  into 
boiling  milk.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Strain  and 
serve  at  once.  A  few  pieces  of  celery,  cut  in  inch  pieces, 
may  be  cooked  separately  and  put  in  whole  after  the 
soup  has  been  strained  and  ready  to  be  served. 

OYSTER  SOUP. 

Put  1  pint  of  milk  on  to  scald  in  a  double  boiler.  Wash 
and  cut  up  3  or  4  stalks  of  celery  and  put  on  to  boil  in 
1  pint  of  boiling  salted  water.  Put  1  quart  of  oysters 
in  a  bowl  and  pour  over  them  1  cup  of  cold  water.  Pick 
over  carefully.  Strain  the  oyster  liquor  into  a  stew-pan 
and  put  on  to  boil.     Remove  the  scum;  mash  the  celery 

35 


New  England  Cook  Book 


in  the  water  it  was  cooked  in  and  strain  into  the  oyster 
liquor;  there  should  be  I  pint  of  liquid.  Melt  4  table- 
spoons of  butter  and  add  4  tablespoons  of  finely  sifted 
cracker  crumbs;  add  some  of  the  milk  and  when  thin 
enough  to  pour,  turn  into  the  oyster  soup ;  add  1  saltspoon 
of  mace  and  cook  5  minutes.  Add  the  remainder  of  the 
milk  and  the  oysters  and  cook  until  the  oysters  are  plump 
about  1  minute.  One-quarter  cup  of  hot  cream  may  be 
added.     Season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  serve  at  once. 

SPLIT   PEA  SOUP. 

Pick  over  and  wash  1  cup  of  dried  split  peas.  Soak 
over  night.  Drain ;  put  on  to  boil  in  1  quart  of  cold 
water  with  1  ounce  of  raw  ham  and  y2  onion ;  simmer 
slowly  till  soft.  Rub  through  a  sieve.  Return  to  fire 
and  add  thickening  made  of  2  tablespoons  of  butter 
melted,  2  tablespoons  of  flour,  1  teaspoon  of  sugar,  1 
teaspoon  of  salt  and  1  saltspoon  of  pepper  and  1 
saltspoon  of  celery  salt.  Boil  for  5  minutes.  Add  enough 
hot  milk,  cream,  stock  or  water  to  make  it  the  consistency 
of  a  puree.     Serve  very  hot,  with  croutons. 

MOCK  BISQUE. 
One-half  can  of  tomatoes,  4  tablespoons  of  butter,  2 
tablespoons  of  flour,  1  teaspoon  salt,  1  saltspoon  salt  and 
1  teaspoon  sugar.  Stew  the  tomatoes  until  soft  enough 
to  strain.  Scald  1  quart  of  milk  in  a  double  boiler. 
Melt  the  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  the  flour,  salt  and 
pepper  and  enough  hot  milk  to  make  it  pour  easily.     Stir 

36 


New  England  Cook  Book 


into  the  milk  in  double  boiler  and  cook  5  mniutes ;  add 
the  strained  tomatoes.  Take  from  fire,  add  a  pinch  of 
soda,  strain,  add  more  pepper  and  salt. 

SCOTCH  BROTH. 
Soak  Y/2  cup  of  pearl  barley  over  night.  Wipe  and  cut 
2  pounds  of  neck  of  mutton,  in  small  pieces ;  add  2  quarts 
of  cold  water  and  soak  1  hour.  Heat  slowly,  skim,  add 
barley,  skim  again;  simmer  1  hour;  add  y2  cup  each  of 
diced  carrot,  turnip,  onion,  celery  that  have  been  fried 
in  1  tablespoon  of  butter.  Simmer  3  hours.  Season 
well,  thicken  with  2  tablespoons  of  butter,  melted,  and 
2  tablespoons  of  flour.     Cook  for  3  minutes  longer;  add 

1  tablespoon  chopped  parsley  and  serve. 

CORN  CHOWDER. 

Cut  enough  green  corn  off  the  cob  to  make  1  quart ; 
pare  and  slice  5  medium  sized  potatoes;  peel  and  slice 

2  onions.  Cut  x/$  pound  of  salt  pork;  add  x/i  teaspoon 
of  pepper,  \l/2  teaspoons  of  salt  and  1  tablespoon  flour 
and  1  tablespoon  of  butter.  Boil  cobs  in  water  (enough 
to  cover)  for  15  minutes,  then  skim  them  out.  Wash, 
pare  and  parboil  potatoes  for  5  minutes.  Cut  up  pork 
into  dice  and  put  in  omelet  pan,  and  when  melted  add 
the  onion  and  fry  until  light  brown ;  then  turn  all  the  fat 
into  the  corn  water,  removing  the  onion,  after  pressing 
all  the  juice  out.  Add  potatoes,  corn,  salt  and  pepper; 
cover  with  boiling  water  and  cook  at  least  20  minutes. 
Melt  butter,  add  the  flour  and  boil  up  once;  then  turn 

37 


New  England  Cook  Book 


into  the  chowder  and  cook  for  5  minutes.     Add  1  pint 
of  hot  milk  and  serve  very  hot  with  toasted  crackers. 

CLAM   CHOWDER. 

Take  34  pound  of  fat  salt  pork  and  fry  until  all  the 
fat  has  been  extracted ;  add  1  large  onion,  cut  into 
dice,  and  fry  until  a  light  yellow.  Put  1  quart  of 
fresh  or  1  can  of  tomatoes  on  to  boil;  strain  pork  fat 
into  the  boiling  tomatoes ;  add  the  liquor  from  12  large 
clams  and  an  equal  amount  of  cold  water  and  1  quart 
of  parboiled  potatoes,  cut  into  cubes.  Tie  in  a  bag  6 
whole  cloves  and  6  allspice  berries  and  drop  into  the 
boiling  soup.  Cook  for  2  hours.  Half  an  hour  before 
it  is  done  put  in  12  large  clams,  chopped  fine.  Add  1 
teaspoon  of  table  sauce,  Worcestershire,  etc.,  and  1  tea- 
spoon of  salt  and  a  pinch  of  pepper.  Serve  hot  with 
crackers. 

BELMONT  CHOWDER. 
Remove  the  skin  and  bones  from  a  3-pound  fish,  cut 
into  large  pieces,  sprinkle  with  %.  cup  flour.  Boil  the 
bones  in  cold  water  (enough  to  cover)  for  30  minutes; 
then  strain.  Cut  and  fry  l/±  pound  of  fat  pork,  add  2 
onions  cut  fine,  6  sprigs  of  parsley.  Strain  the  fat  into 
a  stew-pan,  add  2  cups  of  sliced  and  parboiled  potatoes, 
1  teaspoon  of  white  pepper  and  l/2  saltspoon  of  red 
pepper,  2  teaspoons  of  salt,  6  whole  cloves  and  6  allspice 
berries,  tied  in  a  bag.  Cover  with  \x/o  cups  of  clam 
liquor  and  the  water  in  which  the  bones  were  boiled. 

38 


New  England  Cook  Book 


Cook  slowly  for  40  minutes;  add  fish  and  soft  part  of 
the  clams ;  then  add  the  beaten  yolk  of  1  egg,  2  table- 
spoons butter,  6  crackers,  split;  add  more  seasoning  if 
necessary.     Cook  5  minutes  and  serve. 

SALT  CODFISH  CHOWDER. 

Cut  %  pound  of  fat  salt  pork  into  bits;  when  melted 
fry  2  onions,  cut  in  rings,  to  a  golden  brown.  Pick  1 
pound  of  salt  codfish  into  small  pieces,  rinse  in  cold 
water ;  put  in  a  saucepan,  cover  with  cold  water  and  put 
on  the  stove  to  heat,  but  not  boil.  In  2  hours  add  1 
quart  of  potatoes  that  have  been  pared,  sliced  and  par- 
boiled for  5  minutes.  Strain  the  pork  over  the  potatoes 
and  fish  and  add  1  cup  of  boiling  water.  Cook  until 
potatoes  are  soft.  Add  1  cup  each  of  scalded  cream 
and  milk  and  season  with  salt  and  cayenne.  Serve  at 
once  with  toasted  crackers.  The  cream  may  be  omitted 
and  1  pint  of  rich  milk  used. 


39 


CHAPTER  III. 

Meat,  Fish,  Sauces  and  Croquettes 

HINTS  ON  COOKING  MEAT. 

Meat  should  always  be  removed  from  paper  as  soon 
as  it  comes  from  market. 

Wipe  meat  with  a  damp  cloth  before  cooking. 

The  rule  for  broiling  meat  is  to  quickly  sear  each  side, 
then  remove  it  a  little  from  the  fire  to  finish  cooking. 

When  frying  is  desirable,  always  let  the  pan  heat  before 
putting  in  the  fat,  thus  avoiding  unnecessary  smoke. 

When  frying  is  done  by  immersion  in  deep  fat,  the 
article  should  always  be  drained  on  brown  paper,  unless 
in  the  case  of  doughnuts,  when  it  is  best  to  plunge  them 
into  rapidly  boiling  water  and  remove  at  once. 

Long,  slow  cooking  is  recommended  for  boiling  meat, 
and  when  tough  a  pinch  of  soda  or  a  little  vinegar  is 
added  to  make  it  tender. 

In  roasting  meat  put  some  fat  in  the  bottom  of  the  pan 
and  baste  every  15  minutes;  allow  20  minutes  to  the 
pound  if  liked  well  done;  less  time  if  liked  rare.  When 
done  remove  to  hot  platter. 

CURRY  OF  MUTTON. 
Cut  1  large  onion  fine  and  fry  in  3  tablespoons  of  butter 
until  it  is  a  pale  yellow.     Mix  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  1  tea- 

40 


New  England  Cook  Book 


spoon  curry  powder,  2  tablespoons  of  flour,  a  shake  of 
pepper  together,  and  add  to  the  butter;  then  pour  on 
1  pint  of  hot  water  and  1  cup  of  stewed  and  strained 
tomato  slowly  and  mix  well.  Wipe  and  cut  2  pounds 
of  lean  mutton  into  small  pieces  and  fry  in  hot  fat  (using 
the  fat  that  had  been  removed).  Add  the  meat  to  the 
sauce  and  simmer  slowly  until  tender. 

BREAKFAST  BACON. 
Cut  the  bacon  into  thin  slices.  Grease  a  broiler  with 
the  rind  that  has  been  removed  and  put  in  the  bacon. 
Set  the  broiler  into  a  dripping  pan  and  put  it  into  a  hot 
oven.  Cook  until  bacon  is  crisp,  from  10  to  15  minutes. 
Drain  on  brown  paper.  The  grease  may  be  saved  for 
frying  purposes. 

BREAKFAST  BACON.     (No.  2  ) 
Cut  off  the  rind  and  slice  very  thin ;  cook  in  a  frying 
pan  until  the  fat  is  tried  out  and  bacon  is  crisp.     Drain 
on  paper  and  serve. 

FRIZZLED  BEEF. 
Take  ^2  pound  of  smoked  beef,  cut  into  fine  shavings. 
Pour  warm  water  over  it  and  let  it  simmer  for  15  minutes. 
Drain  and  heat  it  in  2  tablespoons  of  butter.  Make  a 
cup  of  thin  white  sauce ;  pour  it  over  1  egg,  well  beaten ; 
add  the  beef  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Serve 
very  hot. 

4i 


New  England  Cook  Book 


HARICOT  OF  MUTTON. 
Wipe  2  pounds  of  mutton  and  cut  into  pieces  suitable 
for  serving,  removing  all  superfluous  fat,  and  put  into 
a  stewpan.  Melt  2  tablespoons  of  butter  and  brown ; 
then  add  4  tablespoons  of  flour.  Pour  on  slowly  1  pint 
of  hot  water,  add  Yz  teaspoon  salt,  y2  saltspoon  of  pepper, 
1  bay  leaf,  1  tablespoon  mushroom  catsup  (if  on  hand), 
stalk  of  celery  or  a  shake  of  celery  salt.  Pour  this  sauce 
over  the  meat.  Cut  a  small  carrot  and  onion  into  dice 
and  cook  for  10  minutes.  Drain  and  add  to  the  meat. 
Simmer  for  I  hour. 

FRIED  HAM. 

Cut  the  ham  in  thin  slices,  remove  the  outside  and 
wipe ;  then  gash  the  meat  and  cook  in  a  frying-pan  till 
the  fat  is  crisp. 

BEEF  STEAK  PIE. 
One  quart  of  cold  meat,  cut  in  dice ;  2  slices  of  bacon, 
cut  in  small  pieces ;  4  potatoes,  cut  into  slices  or  dice,  and 
parboiled  10  minutes.  Fill  a  baking  dish  with  meat, 
bacon  and  potatoes ;  cover  with  a  brown  sauce  made  of 
1  tablespoon  of  butter,  melted,  1  tablespoon  of  onion,  1 
tablespoon  carrot,  cut  fine ;  fry  till  light  brown ;  add  2 
tablespoons  of  flour  and  brown.  Pour  on  slowly  1  pint 
of  brown  stock  or  liquor  in  which  the  meat  was  cooked. 
Season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Cover  with  a  biscuit  crust 
and  bake  24  of  an  hour. 

42 


New  England  Cook  Book 


CRUST  FOR  BEEF  STEAK  PIE. 
One  pint  of  flour,  2-3  or  1  cup  of  butter,  ]/2  teaspoon 
of  salt.     Chop  well ;  mix  into  a  dough  with  ice  water. 

BOILED  MUTTON  OR  LAMB. 
Trim  and  wipe  the  meat  with  a  damp  cloth.  Have 
ready  kettle  of  rapidly  boiling  salted  water  and  put  in 
meat  and  boil  5  minutes.  Skim  and  simmer,  allowing 
12  minutes  for  each  pound  of  meat.  Sometimes  l/\  cup 
of  rice  is  added  to  the  meat.  Serve  with  a  Caper  or 
Mint  Sauce.  Lamb  should  always  be  well  done;  mutton 
may  be  rare. 

LAMB  OR  MUTTON  CHOPS. 
Wipe  with  a  damp  cloth ;  remove  the  skin  and  extra 
fat.  Heat  frying-pan  until  it  smokes  all  over ;  then  rub 
with  a  bit  of  fat.  Lay  in  chops  and  sear  first  one  side 
then  the  other ;  then  cook  more  slowly  until  done  ( 5 
minutes  if  liked  rare).  Stand  them  up  on  the  fat  edge 
to  brown  the  fat,  without  cooking  the  meat.  When 
nearly  done  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Drain  on 
paper  and  serve  very  hot  on  a  hot  dish  previously  rubbed 
with  a  little  onion,  thereby  imparting  a  fine  flavor.  Chops 
may  be  broiled  if  preferred. 

IRISH  STEW. 

Wipe  and  cut  into  pieces  2  pounds  of  the  shoulder  of 

mutton,  removing  skin  and  fat.     Put  a  little  of  the  fat 

into  a  heated  saucepan,  and  when  it  boils  remove  the 

scraps  of  fat  and  add  3  or  4  onions,  cut  fine,  and  cook 

43 


New  England  Cook  Book 


until  light  brown.  Sprinkle  the  meat  with  salt,  pepper 
and  flour  and  add  the  onions ;  when  slightly  brown  cover 
with  boiling  water.  Add  i  turnip  and  I  carrot  cut  into 
cubes  and  parboiled.  Simmer  for  2  hours.  Wash,  pare 
and  cut  4  large  potatoes  into  slices  and  parboil  for  5 
minutes ;  drain,  add  to  the  stew  and  cook  until  potatoes 
are  soft.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Take  out  the 
dumplings,  put  meat  and  vegetables  in  the  centre  of  a 
hot  platter.  Remove  the  fat,  add  more  salt  and  pepper 
to  the  stew  and,  if  not  thick  enough,  add  a  little  flour  wet 
with  cold  water ;  strain ;  cook  5  minutes.  Pour  the  gravy 
over  the  meat. 

DUMPLINGS. 
Sift  1  pint  of  flour,  ]/2  teaspoon  salt,  3  teaspoons  baking 
powder  together,  mix  1  tablespoon  butter  with  the  tips  of 
the  fingers,  moisten  with  sweet  milk  to  make  a  soft  dough. 
Toss  on  a  floured  board,  pat  it  half  an  inch  thick  and  cut 
into  small  rounds,  or  mix  softer  and  drop  by  the  spoonful 
into  the  boiling  stew.  Cook  15  minutes  without  removing 
the  cover. 

PEASANT'S  POTTAGE.  (French  chef.) 
Chop  the  meat  of  a  cold  turkey  fine;  add  J4  cup  of 
grated  cheese,  y2  saltspoon  of  salt,  ]/2  saltspoon  pepper 
and  %  saltspoon  nutmeg  or  mace.  Make  4  slices  of 
toast  and  put  in  bottom  of  a  buttered  baking  dish.  Mix 
1  cup  of  stock  with  the  meat,  add  juice  of  l/2  lemon  and 
put  over  the  toast.     Moisten  ]/2  cup  of  cracker  crumbs 

44 


New  England  Cook  Book 


with  y±  cup  of  melted  butter  and  sprinkle  on  top.     Bake 
45  minutes  in  a  moderately  hot  oven. 

CASSEROLE  OF  MEAT. 
Chop  the  remains  of  any  cold  meat  fine,  add  some 
bacon  or  ham,  and  for  every  pint  of  meat  add  Yz  small 
onion,  chopped  fine,  salt,  pepper,  parsley,  sweet  marjoram 
and  a  pinch  of  nutmeg  to  taste,  I  egg,  well  beaten,  and 
2  tablespoons  cracker  crumbs.  Moisten  with  gravy,  stock 
or  hot  water.  Pour  into  a  dish,  sprinkle  buttered  bread 
crumbs  over  the  top.  Bake  y2  hour  and  serve  with 
tomato  or  curry  sauce ;  or  butter  a  mould,  line  bottom 
and  sides  with  cooked  rice,  fill  centre  with  meat  mixture 
and  cover  with  a  thick  covering  of  rice.     Steam  I  hour. 

PORTER  HOUSE  STEAK. 
Cut  off  all  the  superfluous  fat  and  wipe  with  a  damp 
cloth.  Place  on  a  broiler  that  has  been  greased  with  a 
bit  of  the  fat  from  the  steak  and  rubbed  over  with  a 
slice  of  onion,  having  the  fat  next  the  handle.  Broil 
over  a  bed  of  hot  coals,  searing  each  side  every  10 
seconds,  and  letting  it  cook  from  6  to  8  minutes.  Serve 
with  Maitre  d'Hotel  Butter. 

BEEF  STEW. 
Cut  2  pounds  of  beef  in  small  pieces.  Melt  some  of 
the  fat  in  a  saucepan  and  when  hot  add  one-half  the  meat 
which  has  been  sprinkled  with  salt,  pepper  and  flour. 
Put  the  tough  part  of  the  meat  in  a  stew-pan,  cover  with 
cold  water  and,  when  it  comes  to  a  boil,  remove  the 

45 


New  England  Cook  Book 


scum  and  add  the  browned  meat  and  enough  boiling 
water  to  cover ;  simmer  for  3  or  4  hours.  Cut  up  and 
wash  %  cup  each  of  carrots,  turnips  and  onions  and  add 
them  to  the  stew.  Within  45  minutes  of  the  stew  being 
done  cut  4  or  5  potatoes  into  slices  and  parboil  for  5 
minutes.  Drain  and  add  to  the  stew.  When  meat  and 
vegetables  are  cooked  place  in  a  dish  and  thicken  the 
gravy  with  a  little  flour  dissolved  in  cold  water  and  cook 
for  5  minutes.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  strain. 
A  beef  bone  is  best  for  beef  stew  and  should  be  removed 
before  serving. 

PORK  CHOPS. 

Wash,  trim  off  skin  and  fat,  and  put  them  in  a  hot 
frying  pan  with  a  little  salt  pork  fat  or  butter.  Cook 
slowly,  as  they  should  be  well  done.  Lay  on  a  hot  dish ; 
make  a  gravy,  adding  flour  enough  to  absorb  fat  in  pan, 
and  when  brown  add  hot  water  until  of  the  right  con- 
sistency. Season  with  salt,  pepper  and,  if  liked,  y2  cup 
of  strained  tomato  and  a  little  sugar.  Cook  5  minutes ; 
pour  over  the  chops  and  serve  hot. 

ROAST  PORK. 

The  loin  and  the  spare  ribs  are  the  best  pieces  for 
roasting.  Rub  well  with  pepper,  sage,  onion,  salt  and 
flour  and  1  tablespoon  of  drippings,  and  bake  20  minutes 
for  each  pound.  Baste  often,  and  do  not  have  the  oven 
as  hot  as  for  other  meat.     Serve  with  apple  sauce. 

46 


New  England  Cook  Book 


TO  ROAST  BEEF. 
Wipe,  put  on  a  rack  in  a  dripping  pan,  skin  side  down ; 
rub  over  with  salt,  pepper  and  dredge  with  flour  and  l/\. 
cup  of  drippings.  Place  in  a  hot  oven,  so  as  to  sear  the 
surface  and  keep  the  juices  in.  After  the  flour  has 
browned,  reduce  the  heat  and  baste  with  the  fat;  if  meat 
is  quite  lean,  put  in  some  of  the  fat  that  has  been  cut  off. 
Baste  every  15  minutes,  this  making  the  meat  more  juicy. 
When  meat  is  half  done,  turn  it  over,  dredge  with  flour, 
baste,  and  have  the  skin  well  browned. 

ROAST  BEEF  GRAVY. 
Remove  from  the  pan  all  the  fat  but  %.  cup ;  place  pan  on 
front  of  range,  add  enough  flour  to  absorb  all  the  fat, 
stir  until  brown  and  well  mixed.  Add  gradually  enough 
boiling  water  until  gravy  is  of  the  right  consistency.  Cook 
5  minutes.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  strain.  Be 
careful  not  to  burn. 

YORKSHIRE  PUDDING. 
Beat  3  eggs  very  light;  add  1  pint  of  milk.     Pour  it     y 
over  1  cup  of  flour  and  1  teaspoon  of  salt.     Beat  well. 
Bake  in  hissing  hot  gem  pans  for  45  minutes.     Baste  with 
the  drippings  from  the  beef.     Place  gem  pans  in  a  drip- 
ping pan  to  prevent  fat  from  getting  on  floor  of  oven. 

GRAVY   FOR   ROAST   POULTRY. 

Put  the  giblets  or  neck,  gizzard,  liver  and  heart  on  to 
boil  in  1  quart  of  water,  and  boil  till  tender  and  the  water 
reduced  to  one-half.     Pour  off  excess  of  fat  in  pan  and 

47 


New  England  Cook  Book 


place  pan  on  stove  and  sprinkle  in  sufficient  flour  to  absorb 
fat.  Stir  until  well  browned  and  gradually  add  the  water 
in  which  the  giblets  were  cooked;  stir  till  smooth  and 
thick;  strain.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Add  the 
liver,  gizzard  and  heart,  chopped  fine. 

STUFFING. 
Moisten  i  cup  of  cracker  or  soft  bread  crumbs  with 
1-3  cup  of  melted  butter;  season  with  1  teaspoon  of  finely 
minced  onion,  salt,  pepper,  thyme  and  sage,  marjoram  or 
poultry  seasoning.  Fry  in  a  hot  buttered  pan  for  5  min- 
utes.    This  makes  a  dry  stuffing. 

CHESTNUT  STUFFING. 
Roast  1  pint  of  chestnuts  and  peel  off  the  outer  and 
inner  skin.  Take  1/2  pound  and  simmer  in  stock  enough 
to  cover ;  drain  and  let  them  cool ;  then  pound  them  in  a 
mortar  with  4  tablespoons  of  butter,  3  ounces  of  bread 
crumbs,  a  small  quantity  of  grated  lemon  peel  and  pow- 
dered mace,  salt,  and  a  pinch  of  cayenne ;  bind  the 
mixture  with  the  beaten  yolks  of  2  eggs  or  1  whole  egg. 

SMOTHERED  VEAL.  (Creole  style.) 
Wipe  3  veal  cutlets  and  cut  each  into  3  or  4  pieces,  and 
saute  in  a  little  hot  butter.  Melt  1  large  tablespoon  of 
butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  1  large  onion,  cut  fine,  and  cook 
until  a  pale  yellow.  Peel  and  chop  up  one-half  dozen 
tomatoes  and  put  in  saucepan  with  a  red  pepper  bean,  a 
sprig  of  parsley,  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Sim- 
mer until  the  tomato  has  thickened ;  then  add  the  veal, 

48 


New  England  Cook  Book 


cover  and  place  where  it  will  cook  slowly  for  30  minutes 
or  until  meat  is  done. 

BROILED  HAM. 
Cut  thin  slices  of  ham  and,  if  very  salty,  let  soak  in  hot 
water  for  20  or  30  minutes.     Dry  and  put  on  a  broiler 
and  broil  over  a  bed  of  hot  coals  for  5  minutes.     Serve 
with  poached  eggs. 

TO  BOIL  A  HAM. 
Soak  over  night  in  cold  water.  Scrub  well;  trim  off 
the  hard  black  part,  cover  with  cold  water,  add  a  few 
cloves,  a  sprig  of  thyme  and  2  bay  leaves,  and  let  it 
simmer  slowly,  allowing  half  an  hour  to  the  pound. 
Remove  kettle  and  let  it  remain  in  the  water  until  cool. 
Then  remove  the  skin  carefully  and  press  a  cloth  over  it 
to  absorb  as  much  grease  as  possible.  Sprinkle  sugar 
and  grated  crumbs  over  the  top  and  place  in  the  oven  for 
nearly  an  hour  to  brown.  Serve  with  currant  jelly  or 
cider  sauce. 

FRICASSEE  OF  CHICKEN. 
Clean  and  disjoint  chicken.  Wipe  each  piece.  Put  in 
pot,  cover  with  boiling  water  and  add  y^  tablespoon  of 
salt,  1  slice  of  onion,  1  stalk  of  celery  and  simmer  till 
tender,  reducing  the  water  to  nearly  1  pint.  (Remove 
scum  occasionally.)  To  the  liquor  add  i^  cups  of  milk 
or  cream,  and  thicken  with  flour  dissolved  in  a  little  cold 
water.  Cook  5  minutes.  Season  with  salt,  pepper,  a 
little  mace,  parsley  and  butter  the  size  of  an  egg.    Strain. 

49 


New  England  Cook  Book 

ROAST  DUCK. 

Pick,  singe  and  remove  the  crop,  oil  bag,  legs  and 
pinions.  Put  ]/2  an  onion  in  the  body  of  the  duck.  Wipe, 
truss,  dredge  with  salt,  pepper,  butter  and  flour.  Roast 
in  a  very  hot  oven  about  45  minutes.  As  ducks  should 
be  cooked  rare,  it  is  best  not  to  stuff  them.  Squeeze  the 
juice  of  1  lemon  over  each  one  and  serve  with  currant 
jelly  and  gravy  made  as  for  turkey,  or  serve  with  a  sauce 
made  of  equal  quantities  of  butter,  currant  jelly  and  port 
wine;  melt  the  butter,  add  the  jelly  and,  when  melted, 
pour  in  the  wine;  bring  to  the  boiling  point  and  serve 
with  the  duck. 

BOILED    DUCK. 

Plunge  into  boiling  water,  so  that  the  feathers  will 
come  off  easily ;  wipe  and  dry  inside  and  out.  Take  the 
gizzard,  heart  and  liver  and  chop  fine,  adding  3  or  4 
shallots  and  1  red  pepper  pod,  finely  minced,  and  2  table- 
spoons of  butter,  melted.  Stuff  the  bird  with  this  mix- 
ture. Make  a  bouquet  of  a  sprig  of  thyme,  a  little 
parsley,  a  couple  of  bay  leaves  and  2  or  3  cloves,  and 
fasten  to  the  breast;  roll  the  duck  in  a  wet  cloth  and 
wrap  a  cord  around  it;  put  into  boiling  salt  water  to  cover 
and  cook  for  30  minutes  or  until  thoroughly  done.  Re- 
move the  cloth  and  bouquet,  place  on  a  hot  dish,  garnished 
with  lemon  points.  Serve  with  currant  sauce  or  gravy. 
This  way  of  cooking  a  duck  is  preferable  to  roasting,  as 
all  the  juices  are  retained. 

50 


New  England  Cook  Book 


ROAST  POULTRY. 

Singe ;  remove  pin  feathers,  oil  bag,  crop,  entrails,  legs 
and  tendons.     Wash  and  wipe,  stuff,  sew,  tie  or  skewer 
into  shape.     Place  on  rack  in  a  dripping  pan,  with  breast 
uppermost;  rub  all  over  with  softened  butter;  sprinkle 
with  salt  inside  and  outside,  pepper  and  flour  and  a  little 
water,  and  put  in  a  hot  oven.     If  liked  a  small  piece  of 
salt  pork  may  be  put  on  top ;  if  not,  I  large  tablespoon  of 
butter  or  drippings.     When  the  flour  is  brown,  check  the 
heat,  baste  with  the  fat  every  15  minutes.     When  each 
side  browns,  turn  on  the  other  side,  so  that  all  the  chicken 
will  be  browned  evenly.     Roast  3  hours  for  an  8-pound 
turkey.  If  fowl  is  very  large  and  heavy,  lay  several  thick- 
nesses of  brown  paper  over  breast  and  legs  that  they  may 
not  burn. 

MOCK  LAMB  CHOPS. 
Take  as  many  pork  chops  as  needed.  Wipe  with  a 
damp  cloth  and  scrape  the  bone  clear  of  meat,  making 
them  look  like  lamb  chops.  Dip  in  beaten  egg,  then  in 
fine  cracker  crumbs  and  fry  in  hot  fat  until  brown  on 
both  sides.  Remove  to  a  platter,  place  in  the  oven  and 
make  a  sauce  of  2  tablespoons  butter ;  when  melted  add 
2  tablespoons  of  flour  and  1  cup  of  hot  cream  or  milk. 
Season  with  salt,  pepper  and  mace  and  pour  over  chops. 

CORN  BEEF. 
Select  a  piece  which,  has  a   fair  amount  of  fat,  the 
brisket  being  especially  good.     If  very  salty  soak  in  cold 

51 


New  England  Cook  Book 


water  for  a  little  while.  Put  on  to  boil  in  enough  cold  water 
to  cover  and  let  simmer  until  you  can  pick  it  to  pieces 
with  a  fork;  when  nearly  done,  let  the  water  almost  boil 
away  and  let  the  beef  stand  in  the  water  until  it  is  cool. 
Pack  in  a  brick  loaf  pan,  having  the  fibres  run  lengthwise 
of  it;  mix  in  the  fat  so  it  will  be  well  marbled.  Put  a 
thin  board,  a  little  smaller  than  the  pan,  over  it  and  press 
down  with  a  heavy  weight.  When  cold,  cut  into  thin 
slices. 

MEAT  TOAST. 
Take  cold  tongue,  ham,  beef  or  mutton  and  mince  it 
very  fine.  Add  yolk  of  I  beaten  egg  and  cream  enough 
to  moisten.  Season  to  taste  with  salt,  pepper,  a  shake  of 
cayenne,  celery  salt,  a  pinch  of  sweet  herbs,  and  a  few 
drops  of  onion  juice ;  mix  well  and  place  in  a  saucepan 
and  let  it  heat  thoroughly  over  the  fire.  Toast  as  many 
slices  of  bread  as  needed,  and  butter  slightly.  Lay  them 
on  a  flat  dish  that  has  been  heated  and  cover  each  slice 
thickly  with  the  hot  mixture,  and  place  on  each  slice  a 
poached  egg.  Send  to  the  table  covered.  This  is  a  nice 
dish  for  breakfast  or  supper. 

MUTTON  CHOPS  ON  PAPIER. 

Wipe  and  trim  ,10  French  chops.  Take  3  boiled  eggs 
and  chop  the  whites  very  fine  and  mash  the  yolks  through 
a  sieve ;  roll  and  sift  3  crackers,  add  to  the  eggs  and  mix 
well;  then  add  y2  an  onion  chopped  fine,  y2  tablespoon 
butter,  melted,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.     Cream  may  be 

52 


New  England  Cook   Book 


added  if  the  mixture  is  too  thick  to  spread.  Spread  on 
each  side  of  the  chop,  wrap  in  buttered  paper  and  bake 
for  25  minutes.  Remove  the  paper  cases,  place  on  hot 
platter,  and  garnish  with  parsley. 

BRAISED  OXTAIL. 

Wipe  and  cut  oxtail  into  joints,  the  larger  ones  into 
3-inch  pieces ;  put  into  a  stewpan,  cover  with  cold  water 
and  1  tablespoon  of  salt ;  bring  to  the  boiling  point ;  strain, 
rinse  the  tail  and  wipe.  Put  into  a  stewpan  1  heaping 
tablespoon  of  butter  or  dripping,  y2  a  carrot  cut  in  long 
strips,  1  turnip,  2  or  3  onions,  a  little  celery  or  celery 
leaves,  6  peppercorns  or  y2  teaspoon  of  white  pepper,  a 
blade  of  mace,  3  or  4  cloves.  Place  the  oxtail  on  the 
top,  put  on  the  cover  and  fry  all  the  ingredients  together 
for  20  minutes;  then  add  1-3  cup  of  well-flavored  brown 
stock,  y2  glass  of  sherry.  Put  in  the  oven  in  a  covered 
pan  and  cook  gently  for  3  hours,  basting  every  20  min- 
utes ;  as  the  gravy  boils  away,  add  1  cup  of  boiling  water. 
Remove  tail  and  strain  gravy  over  it. 

HAMBURG  STEAK. 
Chop  2  pounds  of  the  round  of  beef  and  y2  onion. 
Season  with  2  teaspoons  of  salt  and  %  teaspoon  of 
pepper  and  a  dash  of  cayenne.  Make  into  flat  cakes  and 
fry  in  a  hot  spider  in  pork  fat.  Remove  and  drain  on 
paper.  Serve  with  gravy  made  by  browning  1  tablespoon 
of  flour  in  the  pork  fat,  adding  1  cup  of  boiling  water, 
and  seasoning  with  salt  and  pepper. 

53 


New  England  Cook  Book 

POT  ROAST  OF  BEEF. 
Wipe  with  a  clean,  wet  cloth  and  place  the  meat  in  a 
mixture  of  white  wine  vinegar,  a  dozen  whole  allspice 
berries,  i  dozen  whole  peppers,  I  bay  leaf,  for  i  day, 
turning  meat  occasionally;  then  remove  meat,  wipe  dry. 
Melt  some  suet,  add  2  onions,  chopped  fine,  and  put  in 
meat  and  brown  on  all  sides.  Put  into  the  meat  kettle 
2  cupfuls  of  the  spiced  vinegar,  2  carrots,  cut  in  dice. 
When  it  boils,  add  the  browned  meat,  cover  closely  and 
simmer  for  3  hours,  turning  the  meat  occasionally,  and 
adding  more  vinegar  as  it  boils  away.  Remove  the  meat ; 
strain  the  vinegar  in  which  it  was  cooked,  add  1  cupful 
of  boiling  water,  salt  to  taste,  and  thicken  with  2  table- 
spoons of  flour,  moistened  in  a  little  cold  water.  Just 
before  serving  1  cup  of  cream  may  be  added.  Pour  over 
the  meat  and  serve  very  hot.  This  recipe  requires  four 
or  five  pounds  of  meat,  from  the  middle  of  the  rump, 
vein  or  round. 

BAKED  PORK  AND  BEANS. 
Pick  over  carefully  1  quart  of  beans  and  let  them  soak 
over  night.  In  the  morning  wash  and  drain  in  another 
water.  Put  on  to  boil  in  cold  water  with  y2  teaspoon  of 
soda  and  cook  24  oi  an  hour;  turn  into  a  colander  and 
drain ;  put  into  a  bean  pot  and,  when  filled,  bury  a  piece 
of  pork  (y2  pound),  well  scored,  leaving  only  the  rind 
exposed;  sprinkle  with  a  pinch  of  salt  and  red  pepper 
and   add   2   tablespoons   of   molasses.     Cover   with   hot 

54 


New  England  Cook  Book 


water  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  8  hours.  Keep  closely 
covered  so  they  will  not  burn ;  add  more  water  if  neces- 
sary until  the  last  hour,  and  then  let  them  bake  nearly 
dry,  removing  the  cover  to  allow  them  to  brown.  The 
beans  cannot  cook  too  long.     Serve  with  Chili  Sauce. 

BAKED  PORK  AND  BEANS.  (Southern  recipe.) 
Soak  2  quarts  of  pea  beans  in  cold  water  over  night. 
In  the  morning,  drain  and  put  them  in  fresh  cold  water 
and  a  pinch  of  soda  and  simmer  until  the  beans  are  soft  ; 
then  turn  into  the  colander  and  pour  cold  water  over 
them.  Whilst  beans  are  cooking,  cut  I  pound  of  pork 
into  strips  and  put  on  to  boil,  separately,  until  well  done. 
Place  the  beans  in  a  bean  pot,  moisten  with  a  little  of  the 
water  the  pork  was  boiled  in ;  add  i  teaspoon  of  mustard 
and  3  tablespoons  of  molasses  and  stir  until  well  mixed. 
Bury  the  pork  in  the  middle  of  the  beans,  leaving  only 
the  rind  exposed.  Set  into  a  hot  oven  for  y2  hour  to 
brown. 

BAKED  FISH. 

Clean,  wipe  and  dry  the  fish,  rub  with  salt  and  pepper 
and  lemon  juice;  stuff  and  sew.  Cut  gashes  2  inches 
apart  and  insert  strips  of  salt  pork ;  skewer  into  shape  of 
S  and  put  on  a  fish  sheet  in  a  dripping  pan ;  put  the 
trimmings  from  the  pork  around  the  fish  and  brush  over 
with  melted  butter  and  flour.  Put  it  into  a  hot  oven 
without  water,  baste  often  and  bake  I  hour.  Remove 
carefully  on  to  a  hot  platter.     Serve  with  a  sauce. 

55 


New  England  Cook  Book 


STUFFING. 
Mix  i  cup  of  cracker  crumbs,  }4  teaspoon  of  salt,  I 
teaspoon  of  lemon  juice,  i  saltspoon  of  pepper,  i  teaspoon 
parsley,  2  tablespoons  chopped  onion,  1  teaspoon  poultry 
seasoning  and  %.  cup  melted  butter;  moisten  with  hot 
water. 

HALIBUT  A  LA  CREOLE. 
Wipe  4  pounds  of  halibut,  scrape  off  the  black  skin. 
Season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Put  the  fish  on  a  baking 
sheet  and  pour  over  it  a  tomato  sauce ;  baste  3  or  4  times 
and  bake  for  1  hour.  When  done  serve  on  a  platter; 
pour  the  sauce  that  remains  over  it.     This  is  delicious. 

FILLETS  OF  HALIBUT  A  LA  POULETTE. 

Cut  \]/2  pounds  halibut  in  long,  narrow  strips.  Sprinkle 
with  salt,  pepper,  lemon  juice  and  add  thin  slices  of  onion. 
Cover  and  let  stand  y2  hour;  remove  the  onion,  dip  the 
strips  in  melted  butter.  Skewer  into  shape,  dredge  with 
flour  and  bake  about  20  minutes.  Serve  with  white 
sauce,  in  which  1  sprig  of  parsley,  1  bay  leaf  and  1  slice 
of  onion  have  been  boiled  with  the  milk. 

CLAMS  A  LA  CREME. 
Drain  and  chop  1  quart  of  clams.  Melt  4  tablespoons 
butter,  add  4  tablespoons  of  flour ;  strain  and  pour  on  the 
clam  liquor,  add  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  1  saltspoon  of 
pepper,  1  saltspoon  of  celery  salt  and  cook  3  minutes. 
Add  clams  and  boil  up  once.     Serve  with  toast. 

56 


New  England  Cook  Book 


CREAMED  FISH. 
Four  pounds  of  cod  or  haddock,  i  pint  of  cream  sauce, 
I  cup  of  cracker  crumbs  moistened  in  1-3  cup  of  melted 
butter.  Put  the  fish  into  boiling  water,  enough  to  cover, 
to  which  has  been  added  1  tablespoon  of  salt  and  1  table- 
spoon of  vinegar,  and  let  simmer  until  the  fish  separates 
easily.  Then  lift  out  of  the  water  and  drain.  When 
cool,  remove  the  skin  and  all  the  bones  and  pick  apart 
in  flakes.  Sprinkle  with  1  tablespoon  of  salt  and  1  tea- 
spoon of  pepper.  Put  a  layer  of  fish  on  a  platter ;  cover 
with  a  rich  white  sauce,  letting  it  soak  in ;  then  a  layer 
of  fish  and  continue  doing  so  until  all  are  used.  Moisten 
cracker  crumbs  in  melted  butter  and  spread  over  the  fish. 
Place  platter  on  the  upper  part  of  oven  grate,  over  a  pan 
of  hot  water  and  bake  until  the  crumbs  are  light  brown. 

RICH  SAUCE  FOR  CREAMED  FISH. 
Melt  2  tablespoons  of  butter,  add  2  heaping  tablespoons 
of  flour,  Yz  teaspoon  of  salt  and  y2  saltspoon  of  pepper ; 
put  a  sprig  of  parsley,  1  slice  onion,  J^  blade  of  mace,  I 
bay  leaf  and  1  pint  of  milk  on  to  cook,  in  double  boiler,  for 
15  minutes;  strain;  then  pour  over  butter  and  flour  and 
add  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  or  1  whole  egg  beaten. 

HALIBUT   AU   GRATIN. 
One  pint  of  cooked  halibut,  free  from  skin  and  bones, 
1  Yz  cups  of  cream  or  milk,  2  tablespoons  of  flour,  2  table- 
spoons of  butter,  i1/*  teaspoons  of  salt,  1  saltspoon  of 
pepper,  1  teaspoonful  of  onion  juice  and  l/i  cup  of  bread 

57 


New  England  Cook  Book 


crumbs.  Flake  the  fish  with  a  fork,  sprinkle  and  mix 
with  half  the  salt  and  pepper.  Put  the  milk  on  to  scald 
in  a  double  boiler ;  melt  the  butter,  add  the  flour  and  the 
remainder  of  the  salt  and  pepper;  pour  on  the  hot  milk 
slowly  until  the  mixture  is  free  from  lumps;  then  add 
the  onion  juice.  This  mixture  may  be  put  on  a  platter  or 
arranged  on  six  scalloped  shells  by  putting  a  spoonful  of 
the  sauce  on  the  shells,  then  a  thin  layer  of  the  fish  and 
alternate  until  the  dishes  are  filled.  Melt  I  tablespoon  of 
butter  and  add  the  bread  crumbs,  cover  the  scalloped 
dishes  with  this ;  place  all  the  dishes  in  a  pan  and  put 
in  a  hot  oven,  to  brown,  for  10  or  15  minutes. 

FISH  TOAST. 

Toast  6  slices  of  bread,  1  pint  of  cold  cooked  fish,  freed 
from  skin  and  bone,  1^2  cups  of  milk,  4  tablespoons  of 
butter,  2  tablespoons  of  flour,  a  dash  of  red  pepper  or 
paprika,  1  J/?  teaspoons  of  salt  and  1  teaspoon  of 
lemon  juice.  Put  one-half  the  quantity  of  milk  on  to 
scald  in  a  double  boiler.  Melt  the  butter  and  add  the 
flour,  salt  and  pepper,  and  cook  for  5  minutes,  being  care- 
ful not  to  burn.  Pour  the  scalded  milk  on  slowly,  and 
when  free  from  lumps  turn  into  the  double  boiler,  add 
the  fish  and  let  cook  for  10  minutes.  Beat  the  eggs  until 
light ;  add  the  remainder  of  the  cold  milk.  Turn  this  into 
the  double  boiler,  stir  all  together  and  remove  from  fire. 
Add  the  lemon  juice  and  spread  the  fish  mixture  on  hot 

58 


New  England  Cook  Book 


buttered  toast  and  serve  at  once.     This  dish  is  not  satis- 
factory if  it  is  allowed  to  become  cold. 

SCALLOPED  SALMON. 
Scald  i  cupful  of  milk  in  a  double  boiler.  Melt  I 
tablespoon  butter,  add  2  tablespoons  flour,  salt  and  pepper 
to  taste ;  pour  milk  on  slowly  and,  when  thick  as  cream, 
add  1  can  of  salmon  that  has  been  drained  and  cut  up 
into  small  pieces.  Butter  a  shallow  dish,  put  in  the  mix- 
ture, grate  a  little  nutmeg  over  it  and  cover  with  1  cup 
of  powdered  cracker  crumbs,  stirred  into  1-3  cup  of 
melted  butter.    Bake  until  crumbs  are  brown. 

FISH  BALLS. 

One  cup  of  raw  salt  codfish,  picked  and  flaked,  1  pint 
of  raw  sliced  potatoes,  1  well  beaten  egg,  1  teaspoon  of 
butter,  y2  teaspoon  of  onion  juice.  Parboil  potatoes  for 
5  minutes;  wash  the  fish.  Put  fish  and  potatoes  in  a 
stewpan  and  cover  with  boiling  water.  Boil  20  minutes 
or  until  the  potatoes  are  soft.  Do  not  let  them  boil  long 
enough  to  become  soggy.  Drain  off  every  drop  of  water ; 
mash  until  creamy  and  light;  add  butter,  onion  juice, 
pepper  and  salt  if  needed  and,  when  slightly  cool,  add 
the  beaten  egg.  Shape  on  a  tablespoon,  put  in  a  frying 
basket  (not  more  than  four  or  five)  and  cook  1  minute. 
Drain  on  unglazed  brown  paper.     These  are  very  delicate. 

FLAKED  FISH.     (Creole  style.) 
Free  the  remnant  of  any  cooked  fish  of  skin  and  bone ; 
flake.     Cream  *4  cup  of  butter,  add  1  teaspoon  dry  mus- 

59 


New  England  Cook  Book 


tard,  a  dash  of  cayenne,  and  salt  to  taste;  moisten  with 
lemon  juice,  to  form  a  smooth  paste.  Put  the  fish  on 
buttered  shells  or  platter,  cover  with  paste  and  sprinkle 
buttered  cracker  crumbs  over  the  whole.  Bake  10  min- 
utes.    Serve  with  cress,  moistened  with  lemon  juice. 

ESCALLOPED  FISH. 

Make  a  cup  of  sauce,  rather  thick  as  given  for  creamed 
fish ;  butter  a  baking  dish,  and,  having  freed  the  remnants 
of  the  fish  from  skin  and  bone,  flake  it  and  put  a  layer 
of  it  into  the  dish,  with  the  cream  sauce,  to  moisten  it; 
continue  alternating,  having  the  sauce  for  the  last  layer. 
Cover  with  buttered  cracker  or  bread  crumbs  and  bake 
until  crumbs  are  brown. 

CREAMED  FINNAN  HADDIE.  (Norwegian  recipe.) 
Cut  up  a  fish  weighing  4  or  5  pounds  into  several  good 
sized  pieces  and  put  on  to  boil  with  a  small  onion,  cut 
into  slices,  1  tablespoon  vinegar  and  cook  until  the  flesh 
separates  from  the  bone.  Drain  and,  when  cool,  remove 
the  skin  and  bones,  and  cut  it  up  in  small  pieces  and  add 
about  a  teaspoon  of  poultry  seasoning  or  mixed  herbs ; 
mix  it  with  a  cream  sauce  and  let  it  heat  up.  Season  with 
a  little  nutmeg ;  sprinkle  with  finely  chopped  parsley. 

BOILED  SALMON. 
Place  in  a  frying  basket  or  put  in  whole,  tied  in  a  piece 
of  cheesecloth,  and  have  enough  boiling  water  in  sauce- 
pan to  cover  fish ;  add  1  tablespoon  salt  and  1  tablespoon 
lemon  juice,  and  cook  until  fish  separates  from  the  bone. 

60 


New  England  Cook  Book 


When  done,  remove  skin,  place  on  a  hot  platter  and  pour 
white  sauce  over  it,  or  serve  with  Hollandaise  sauce. 

BROILED  OYSTERS. 

Wash,  pick  and  drain  large  oysters;  sprinkle  with  a 
pinch  of  mace ;  dip  in  melted  butter  or  beaten  egg,  then  in 
fine  cracker  crumbs,  and  broil  in  fine  wire  broiler  over  a 
clear,  hot  fire. 

BROILED  SMELTS.     (Swedish  recipe.) 
After  dressing,  smelts  are  laid  on  a  towel  to  dry.     Cut 
as  many  white  papers  as  you  have  fish  and  spread  with 
buttered  cracker  crumbs.     Wrap  in  paper  and  broil  over 
a  bright  fire  from  5  to  8  minutes. 

FRIED  FISH. 
Fish  for  frying  should  be  thoroughly  cleaned  and  dried, 
seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper  and  sprinkled  on  both  sides 
with  indian  meal  or  cracker  crumbs.  Fry  in  hot  butter 
or  lard  (l/2  butter  and  l/2  lard  makes  a  good  mixture  for 
frying  fish)  from  2  to  5  minutes.  Drain  on  brown  paper. 
Serve  with  tomato  or  tartare  sauce. 

BROILED  FISH. 
Clean,  wash  with  a  wet  cloth  and  wipe  dry.  Split  so 
when  laid  flat  the  back  bone  will  be  in  the  middle ;  cover 
with  a  mixture  of  3  tablespoons  of  olive  oil,  1  tablespoon 
vinegar,  1  teaspoon  salt,  1  saltspoon  pepper  and  1  table- 
spoon of  chopped  onion.  Set  away  in  a  cool  place.  Drain 
and  place  on  a  buttered  gridiron,  flesh  side  down,  over  a 

61 


New  England  Cook  Book 


clear  fire  until  brown ;  then  turn.     When  done,  place  on  a 
hot  platter  and  serve  with  tartare  sauce. 

BROILED  FINNAN  HADDIE. 
Rub  broiler  with  butter  or  a  piece  of  pork  fat;  put  in 
finnan  haddie  rubbed  with  butter  and  broil ;  sprinkle  with 
salt  and  pepper.     Serve  with  horse  radish  sauce. 

LOBSTER  NEWBURG. 
Cut  i  pint  of  boiled  lobster  meat  in  small  pieces  and 
heat  with  i  wineglass  of  sherry  wine,  I  tablespoon  of 
brandy,  a  little  pepper  and  salt  and  2  rounding  tablespoons 
of  butter.  Cook  2  or  3  minutes.  Beat  in  yolks  of '4  eggs, 
2  tablespoons  of  butter  and  1  pint  of  cream.  Serve  at 
once. 

POINTS  TO  REMEMBER. 

This  is  the  formulae  for  most  sauces :  Melt  the  butter, 
put  in  the  flour,  to  which  has  been  added  all  the  dry 
seasonings ;  stir  till  the  mixture  bubbles  all  over ;  then 
gradually  add  the  hot  liquid,  beating  after  each  addition 
before  putting  more  in.  The  constant  beating  renders  it 
smooth  and  glossy  as  nothing  else  can  make  it.  Cook 
slowly  for  a  few  minutes;  if  too  thick  add  more  hot 
liquid. 

HOW  TO  ADD  YOLKS  OF  EGGS  TO  SOUPS 
AND  SAUCES. 
In  adding  yolks  of  eggs  to  soups  and  sauces  (to  insure 
richness),  beat  yolks  very  light,  add  a  little  of  the  hot 

62 


New  England  Cook  Book 


liquid  and  mix  until  smooth;  then  add  enough  more  to 
have  it  pour  easily. 

TO  BROWN  FLOUR. 

Put  the  flour  in  a  shallow  pan  and  set  in  a  moderately 
hot  oven.  Stir  often  to  prevent  burning  and  have  it  of 
uniform  color — good,  rich  brown  when  done.  If  desired 
to  keep  it  on  hand  for  brown  gravies  and  sauces,  let  it 
cool  when  taken  from  the  oven,  then  put  in  glass  jars  and 
it  is  ready  for  use. 

MAITRE  D'  HOTEL  SAUCE. 
Chop  i  tablespoon  of  parsley  to  a  powder,  then  add  a 
little  chives;  mix  these  with  I  heaping  tablespoon  of 
butter,  creamed,  I  teaspoon  of  lemon  juice,  a  speck  of 
nutmeg,  ^2  saltspoon  pepper  and  y2  teaspoon  of  salt. 
Spread  on  hot  beef  steak. 

CREOLE  SAUCE. 
Yolks  of  4  hard  boiled  eggs,  x/2  cup  each  of  tarragon, 
cress,  chives  and  parsley,  all  pounded  to  a  paste  and 
then  sifted  through  a  wire  sieve.  Add  1  cup  of  olive  oil. 
2  tablespoons  lemon  juice,  a  pinch  of  salt  and  a  dash  of 
cayenne  pepper  and  a  pinch  of  anisette.  Stir  with  a 
wooden  spoon.  To  be  served  with  flaked  cold  fish  or  any 
cold  meat. 

CREOLE  SAUCE.     (No.  2.) 
Boil  1  egg  hard ;  rub  the  yolk  smooth  with  a  little  cold 
water,  then  add  1  teaspoon  mustard,  1  saltspoon  of  salt 
and  a  dash  of  cayenne  pepper.     Take  2  pinches  (about 

63 


New  England  Cook  Book 


]/2  cup)  of  chives  and  shallot  and  the  smallest  bit  of 
garlic;  boil  these  i  minute  in  water.  Strain  them  and 
hash  fine.  Rub  into  the  egg  mixture,  oil  and  vinegar 
until  you  have  the  quantity  needed  (about  %.  cup  of  oil 
and  ]/2  tablespoon  vinegar) ;  lastly  add  the  herbs  and 
pour  over  cold  meat.  This  sauce  is  nice  with  fish  or 
poured  over  eggs,  boiled,  it  makes  a  nice  entree. 

HORSE  RADISH  SAUCE. 

Four  tablespoons  of  grated  horse  radish  (using  the 
horse  radish  root),  I  tablespoon  of  vinegar  or  lemon  juice, 
y2  teaspoon  of  salt,  i  teaspoon  of  powdered  sugar,  dash 
of  cayenne  pepper  and  y2  cup  of  heavy  cream.  Mix  and 
heat  over  boiling  water. 

MINT  SAUCE. 
One-half  cupful  chopped  mint,  Y^  cupful  of  sugar,  y2 
cupful  of  vinegar,  grain  of  salt.    Use  only  the  leaves  and 
tender  tips  of  the  mint.     Let  it  stand  1  hour  before  using. 

TOMATO  SAUCE. 
Put  1  pint  tomato,  1  cup  of  water,  3  cloves,  a  dash  of 
cayenne,  a  pinch  of  soda,  1  teaspoon  of  poultry  seasoning, 
1  teaspoon  sugar,  1  slice  of  onion,  on  to  boil  for  30  min- 
utes. Melt  4  tablespoons  butter,  add  2  tablespoons  flour, 
y2  teaspoon  salt,  y2  saltspoon  pepper.  Simmer  10  min- 
utes and  strain  over  boiled  meat  or  fish.  A  little  parsley 
may  be  cooked  in  it  if  liked. 

64 


New  England  Cook  Book 


CURRY  SAUCE. 
Melt  2  tablespoons  of  butter,  add  I  tablespoon  of 
chopped  onion  and  cook  slowly  for  5  minutes.  Add  1 
teaspoon  of  curry  powder  and  2  tablespoons  flour  and 
cook  for  10  minutes;  then  add  1  cup  of  white  stock  or 
mutton  liquor  free  from  grease.  Cook  10  minutes;  season 
with  salt  and  pepper.     Strain. 

WHITE  SAUCE. 
Melt  2  tablespoons  of  butter ;  mix  2  tablespoons  flour, 
1  saltspoon  white  pepper,  y2  teaspoon  salt  and  add  to  the 
melted  butter;  mix  well,  being  careful  not  to  burn  it; 
then  pour  on  gradually  1  cup  of  hot  milk.  Beat  until 
smooth  and  free  from  lumps. 

EGG  SAUCE,     (for  fish.) 
To   1   cup  of  white   sauce  add  2  hard  boiled  eggs, 
chopped  fine,  1  tablespoon  chopped  parsley,  1  teaspoon  of 
lemon  juice.     Parsley  is  not  to  be  added  until  after  being 
removed  from  fire. 

ONION  SAUCE. 

Boil  1  pint  of  onions  in  boiling  salted  water  for  half 
an  hour,  changing  the  water  two  or  three  times.  Drain, 
add  1  teaspoon  sugar,  2  tablespoons  butter,  cover  and 
stew  slowly  for  1  hour,  being  careful  lest  they  burn ;  rub 
through  a  sieve,  add  y2  cup  of  white  stock,  1  cup  of  milk, 
1  teaspoon  salt,  1  saltspoon  pepper.  Melt  4  tablespoons 
butter,  add  2  tablespoons  flour  and  add  to  the  onion. 
Cook  5  minutes,  stirring  well  and  serve  very  hot. 

65 


New  England  Cook  Book 


DRAWN  BUTTER  SAUCE. 

Melt  l/2  cup  of  butter,  add  4  tablespoons  of  flour,  mixed 
with  ]/2  teaspoon  salt,  shake  of  pepper  and  1  pint  of  hot 
water,  poured  on  slowly. 

THICK   CREAM    SAUCE.     (For   croquettes.) 
Scald  1  pint  of  thick  cream  or  rich  milk.     Melt  2  table- 
spoons of  butter,  add  4  tablespoons  of  flour,  ]/2  teaspoon 
salt,  dash  of  cayenne,  y2  teaspoon  celery  salt.  Pour  cream 
on  slowly  and  beat  well.     This  sauce  is  very  thick. 

CAPER  SAUCE. 
To  each  cup  of  drawn  butter  sauce  add  1  tablespoon 
of  chopped  capers  and  1  teaspoon  lemon  juice.     Chopped 
cucumbers  and  pickles  may  be  used  instead. 

BECHAMEL  SAUCE. 

Melt  4  tablespoons  butter,  add  3  tablespoons  of 
flour,  9  peppercorns,  a  bit  of  mace,  very  small  slice  of 
onion  and  carrot,  1  bay  leaf,  sprig  of  parsley  and  1  pint  of 
hot  stock ;  simmer  20  minutes ;  strain  and  add  1  cup  of 
milk  or  cream ;  if  yellow  sauce  be  desired  add  the  beaten 
yolks  of  2  eggs. 

VELVET  SAUCE. 
Melt  1  heaping  tablespoon  of  butter  in  a  saucepan, 
add  2  tablespoons  of  flour  and  stir  well,  being  careful  not 
to  let  it  get  brown;  add  3  cups  of  white  stock  slowly, 
stirring  until  well  mixed,  and  beat  until  smooth  and  thick. 
Add  4  parsley  stalks,  1  bay  leaf,  1  sprig  of  thyme,  2 
cloves,  all  tied  together;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.     Boil 

66 


New  England  Cook  Book 


the  sauce  for  10  minutes,  stirring  continuously;  then  place 
where  it  will  simmer  for  I  hour.  Strain  and  place  on  ice. 
If  not  to  be  used  at  once,  put  a  few  bits  of  butter  on  top 
to  prevent  crust  from  forming. 

OLIVE  SAUCE. 
Rmove  stones  from  i  dozen  olives,  leaving  meat  in  I 
piece.  Cover  with  boiling  water  and  cook  5  minutes. 
Drain  and  chop  fine.  Melt  4  tablespoons  of  butter,  add 
6  tablespoons  of  flour,  1  teaspoon  of  minced  onion  and 
cook  until  light  brown,  stirring  constantly;  add  iJ/2  cups 
of  brown  stock,  a  little  at  a  time ;  stir  until  smooth ;  season 
with  salt  and  pepper.     Strain ;  add  the  chopped  olives. 

SAUCE  TARTARE. 
Make  l/2  pint  of  mayonnaise  dressing  No.  2;  chop 
very  fine  1  tablespoon  each  of  chopped  capers,  olives, 
pickles,  a  shallot  and  parsley.  Put  in  a  towel  and  dry. 
Add  to  the  mayonnaise  and  mix  thoroughly.  This  will 
keep  for  several  weeks;  if  too  thick,  add  a  little  more 
melted  butter  and  vinegar. 

CIDER  SAUCE. 
Melt  yk  cup  of  butter,  add  1-3  cup  of  flour  and  mix 
well ;  then  gradually  pour  in  1  pint  of  hot  ham  liquor,  and 
when  smooth  stir  in  1-3  cup  of  hot  cider.  Season  with 
a  little  salt,  pepper  and  a  few  grains  of  cayenne  or 
paprika. 

67 


New  England  Cook  Book 


MAITRE   D'HOTEL  BUTTER. 
Cream  J4  cup  of  butter,  add  y2  teaspoon  salt,  y2  salt- 
spoon  pepper,   dash  of  cayenne,   i   tablespoon  chopped 
parsley,    i    tablespoon    lemon    juice.     Keep    very    cold. 
Serve  with  fried  fish  or  broiled  steak. 

ONION  SAUCE  FOR  BEEF.  (German  recipe.) 
Melt  2  tablespoons  butter,  add  i  small  onion,  chopped 
fine,  and  cook  until  a  pale  yellow ;  add  2  tablespoons  of 
flour :  season  with  salt,  pepper  to  taste,  enough  to  flavor 
slightly,  and  a  dust  of  sugar  if  liked.  Stir  the  mixture 
thoroughly;  add  juice  of  your  meat  and  a  dash  of  cold 
water  and  serve  hot. 

HOLLANDAISE  SAUCE. 
Cream  y2  cup  butter,  add  the  unbeaten  yolks  of  2  eggs ; 
stir  well  and  add  2  tablespoons  lemon  juice,  a  dash  each 
of  salt,  pepper  and  y2  cup  boiling  water ;  cook  in  a  double 
boiler  until  thick  as  boiled  custard.  Add  1  teaspoon  of 
capers  and  serve  immediately. 

FISH  CROQUETTES. 
Free  from  skin  and  bone  1  pint  of  cold  cooked  fresh 
fish  and  tear  into  shreds;  add  1  pint  of  hot  mashed 
potatoes,  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  y2  cup  of  hot  milk,  1 
well  beaten  egg,  1  rounding  teaspoon  of  salt,  y2  saltspoon 
of  pepper,  1  teaspoon  of  chopped  parsley  and  a  few  drops 
of  onion  juice.  Mix  all  these  thoroughly  together  and 
set  away  to  cool;  when  the  mixture  is  cold,  shape  into 
balls,  then  dip  in  beaten  egg,  then  in  fine  bread  crumbs, 

68 


New  England  Cook  Book 


then  in  egg  again.  Just  before  serving  time,  place  the 
croquetter  in  a  frying  basket  and  plunge  into  the  boiling 
fat  and  cook  2  minutes.  Remove  from  basket  and  drain 
on  brown  paper.  Serve  at  once.  These  may  be  prepared 
the  previous  day,  frying  them  when  needed. 

OYSTER  CROQUETTES. 

One  pint  of  oysters,  washed  and  drained ;  parboil  until 
the  edges  are  curled.  Drain,  saving  the  liquor ;  chop 
oysters.  Melt  4  tablespoons  of  butter,  add  4  tablespoons 
of  flour  ;pour  on  slowly  l/2  cup  of  oyster  liquor  and  ]/2  cup 
of  cream.  Add  1  teaspoon  chopped  parsley,  a  few  grains 
of  cayenne,  celery  salt,  mace,  y2  teaspoon  salt  and  the 
beaten  yolks  of  2  eggs.  Cook  2  or  3  minutes ;  add  oysters. 
Cool,  shape,  roll  in  crumbs,  egg  and  crumbs,  and  fry  in 
smoking  hot  fat.  Drain  on  brown  paper.  If  sauce  is  too 
thin,  thicken  with  cracker  crumbs. 

RICE  CROQUETTES. 

To  1  pint  of  cooked  rice  add  1  egg  well  beaten,  1  table- 
spoon butter,  salt,  pepper,  sugar  and  cayenne  to  taste,  1 
tablespoon  of  parsley.  Cool,  shape,  roll,  fry  as  usual. 
If  cold  rice  be  used,  warm  in  a  saucepan  and  add  enough 
milk  to  soften. 

SALMON  CROQUETTES. 

Chop  up  cold  cooked  salmon,  and  for  every  pint  of  fish 

add    1    teaspoon    salt,    y2    teaspoon    mustard,    speck    of 

cayenne,  a  few  drops  of  onion  juice,  1  tablespoon  parsley. 

Moisten  with  1  cup  of  thick  cream  sauce  and  pour  over  I 

69 


New  England  Cook  Book 


egg,  well  beaten.  When  thoroughly  mixed,  spread  on  a 
platter.  When  cool,  shape  like  croquettes.  Roll  in 
crumbs,  beaten  egg,  and  then  in  crumbs  again.  Fry  in 
smoking  hot  fat.  Drain  on  brown  paper.  If  canned 
salmon  be  used,  drain  off  the  oil  and  remove  the  bones, 
and  chop  the  salmon  fine. 

POTATO  CROQUETTES. 
One  pint  of  hot  mashed  potatoes,  2  tablespoons  of  but- 
ter, season  with  salt,  pepper,  onion  juice,  a  speck  of 
cayenne,  nutmeg,  celery  salt.  When  slightly  cool,  add 
the  beaten  yolk  of  1  egg.  Put  through  a  seive  and  add  2 
teaspoons  of  chopped  parsley.  Shape  into  smooth  round 
balls,  then  into  rolls.  Roll  in  fine  bread  crumbs,  then  dip 
in  beaten  egg,  then  roll  in  crumbs  again.  Fry  in  smoking 
hot  fat  for  1  minute.     Drain  on  brown  paper. 

HOMINY  CROQUETTES. 
Warm  1  pint  of  cooked  hominy  in  2  tablespoons  of 
cream  or  milk ;  add  1  beaten  egg  and  a  pinch  of  salt  and 
mace.  Cool,  shape,  roll  in  crumbs,  dip  in  beaten  egg,  and 
then  in  crumbs  again.  Fry  in  deep  boiling  fat  and  drain 
on  brown  paper. 

VEAL  CROQUETTES. 

Chop  cold  veal  very  fine;  season  highly  with  salt, 
pepper,  cayenne,  onion  juice,  celery  salt,  nutmeg  or  mace 
and  parsley,  mixing  all  the  seasonings  together  before 
adding  to  the  meat.  Moisten  with  cream  sauce  and  1  egg, 
well  beaten.     Cool,  shape  into  rolls.     Roll  in  sifted  bread 

70 


New  England  Cook  Book 


crumbs,  then  in  beaten  egg  and  again  in  crumbs.     Fry  in 
smoking  hot  fat.     Drain  on  brown  paper. 

BEEF  CROQUETTES. 

Chop  cold  roast  beef  very  fine,  add  y2  the  quantity  of 
bread  crumbs,  that  has  been  previously  soaked  in  stock  or 
milk,  to  moisten.  Melt  I  tablespoon  of  butter  and  I 
tablespoon  of  onion  and  cook  to  a  pale  yellow,  season 
with  y2  teaspoon  of  salt,  l/2  saltspoon  of  pepper,  I  table- 
spoon of  tomato  ketchup,  add  to  the  first  mixture  and 
stir  over  the  fire  until  smooth,  then  add  the  beaten  yolk  of 
i  egg.  When  cool  make  into  croquettes,  dip  in  crumbs, 
beaten  egg,  then  in  crumbs  again.  Fry  in  smoking  hot 
fat.  Drain  on  brown  paper.  Serve  with  tomato  or 
curry  sauce. 

CHICKEN  CROQUETTES. 
Chop  ]/2  lb.  of  chicken  quite  fine,  add  I  teaspoon  of 
salt,  i  saltspoon  of  paprika,  I  teaspoon  lemon  juice,  a 
little  parsley,  a  few  drops  of  onion  juice  and  a  pinch  of 
nutmeg  and  celery  salt.  Moisten  with  a  thick  cream 
sauce,  to  which  add  I  egg,  well  beaten,  and  when  thor- 
oughly moistened,  set  away  to  cool.  Roll  in  crumbs,  eggs, 
and  crumbs,  and  fry  in  smoking  hot  fat. 

CHICKEN  CROQUETTES  (NO.  2). 

To  y2  pint  each  of  chicken  and  sweetbreads,  chopped 

very  fine,  add  y2   cup  of  powdered  cracker  crumbs,   1 

beaten  egg  and  enough  white  sauce  to  moisten;  season 

with  salt,  pepper,  onion  juice  and  mace.     Shape  in  any 

71 


New  England  Cook  Book 


shape  desired;  roll  in  fine  cracker  crumbs,  then  in  beaten 
egg  and  lastly  in  cracker  crumbs.  Fry  in  smoking  hot 
fat.     Drain  on  paper. 

MEAT  CROQUETTES. 
These  are  made  of  left  overs,  any  meat  from  roast 
beef,  pork,  lamb  or  mutton  or  chops ;  a  thin  slice  of  sau- 
sage, ham  or  tongue  may  be  added  and  all  chopped  very 
fine.  Season  I  cup  of  meat  highly  with  salt,  pepper, 
onion  juice,  I  teaspoon  lemon  juice,  nutmeg,  thyme,  mar- 
joram, celery  salt  or  poultry  seasoning,  I  tablespoon  of 
cracker  crumbs  and  add  I  cup  of  cream  or  gravy  to 
moisten  and  I  beaten  egg.  Cool.  Shape.  Roll  in  crumbs, 
beaten  egg  and  crumbs  again.  Fry  in  smoking  hot  fat. 
Drain. 

LOBSTER    CROQUETTES. 

Make  a  white  sauce  by  melting  i  tablespoon  butter  and 
adding  2  tablespoons  of  flour;  pour  on  slowly  1  cup  of 
hot  milk ;  when  thickened  stir  in  1  pint  of  lobster  meat,  I 
beaten  egg,  the  juice  of  J^  a  lemon,  a  dash  of  cayenne 
and  salt.  If  too  soft,  add  a  little  sifted  bread  crumbs. 
Roll  in  crumbs,  then  in  egg,  then  crumbs  again,  and  fry 
in  the  usual  manner. 

FRITTER  BATTER. 

Beat  2  eggs  very  light,  add  y2  pint  of  milk.     Sift  2 

cups  of  flour,  a  pinch  of  salt,  x/2  teaspoon  of  soda  and  1 

rounding  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar  together  and  add  to 

the  first  mixture.     Beat  well,  add  I  tablespoon  of  melted 

72 


New  England  Cook  Book 


butter.      (Two  rounding  teaspoons  of  baking  powder  may 
be  used  in  place  of  soda  and  cream  of  tartar.) 

APPLE  FRITTERS. 

Wipe,  pare,  core  and  cut  apples  in  small  pieces  and 
stir  into  batter.  Drop  by  spoonfuls  and  fry  in  deep  fat, 
boiling,  until  a  light  brown.  Drain  on  brown  paper  and 
sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar  or  powdered  sugar  and 
cinnamon. 

BANANA  FRITTERS. 
Peel  bananas,  cut  in  lengthwise  slices,  cover  with 
sugar  and  lemon  juice  and  i  tablespoon  wine  and  let 
steep  on  back  of  stove  for  y2  hour.  Drain.  Add  4  table- 
spoons of  sugar  to  fritter  batter  and  dip  each  slice  in 
batter;  fry  in  deep  fat,  and  drain  on  brown  paper. 
Sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar. 

FRUIT  FRITTERS. 

Fresh  peaches  or  apricots  may  be  cut  in  small  pieces, 
sprinkled  with  sugar  and  let  stand  10  or  15  minutes;  then 
add  to  fritter  batter  and  fry  as  other  fritters.  Canned 
fruit  may  be  used,  after  draining  from  their  syrup,  using 
the  syrup  for  a  sauce. 

CLAM  FRITTERS. 
Drain  and  chop  a  pint  of  clams  and  season  with  salt 
and  pepper.     Make  a  fritter  batter,  using  the  clam  liquor 
instead  of  milk.     Add  the  chopped  clams  and  fry  in  small 
spoonfuls  in  hot  fat.     Drain  on  brown  paper. 

71 


New  England  Cook  Book 


CORN  FRITTERS. 
Add  I  pint  of  scraped  corn,  (cooked),  season  with  salt 
and  pepper,  to  fritter  batter  and  beat  well.     Fry  in  small 
spoonfuls.     Drain. 

OYSTER  FRITTERS. 

Make  the  same  as  clam  fritters,  using  oysters  instead 
of  clams. 


74 


CHAPTER  IV. 

Eggs,   Vegetables  and  Salads 

PLAIN  OMELET. 
Beat  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  till  light  colored  and  thick; 
add  2  tablespoons  of  milk,  %  teaspoon  of  salt  and  a  shake 
of  pepper.  Beat  the  whites  of  2  eggs  till  stiff  and  dry. 
Cut  and  fold  them  into  the  yolks  till  just  covered.  Have 
a  clean,  smooth  omelet  pan ;  when  hot,  rub  1  teaspoon  of 
butter  around  the  edge  with  a  broad  knife,  let  the  butter 
run  all  over  the  pan,  and  when  bubbling  turn  in  omelet 
quickly  and  spread  it  evenly  on  the  pan ;  shake  and  stir 
until  the  eggs  commence  to  set.  Put  it  on  the  upper 
grate  of  the  oven  to  dry.  Then  run  a  broad  knife  round 
the  edge,  crease  through  the  middle  and  fold  over  on  a 
hot  platter. 

ORANGE  OMELET. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  2  eggs,  very  light,  add  2  tablespoons 
orange  juice  and  about  1  teaspoon  of  the  grated  rind,  and 
4  teaspoons  of  powdered  sugar  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Beat 
the  whites  stiff,  fold  in  lightly.  Cook  in  an  ometlet  pan. 
Spread  with  sweetened  pulp  of  2  oranges.  Fold  over 
and  turn  out.     Sprinkle  with  sugar. 

RICH  OMELETTE. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  5  eggs  until  thick  and  lemon  color, 
add  1  tea-cup  of  milk.     Mix  1  large  tablespoon  flour,  I 

75 


New  England  Cook  Book 


teaspoon  salt  and  a  little  pepper  together ;  pour  over  this 
the  egg  mixture,  add  2  tablespoons  butter,  melted.  Pour 
mixture  into  a  hot  buttered  spider  and  let  it  harden  a 
little,  then  add  the  whites  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  As  it 
cooks,  lift  with  a  griddle  cake  turner,  so  that  the 
uncooked  part  may  run  underneath.  Place  on  hotter 
part  of  range  to  brown,  shaking  the  pan  continuously. 
Crease  with  back  of  knife  and  fold  over. 

SOFT   FRIED  EGGS. 

Heat  a  frying  pan  thoroughly  and  add  a  piece  of  butter 
or  bacon  fat  size  of  an  egg.  Place  muffin  rings  in  pan 
and  break  eggs  into  them,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper, 
dip  the  melted  fat  over  them,  with  a  spoon,  and  cook 
until  white  is  firm.  Remove  muffin  rings  and  serve  eggs 
at  once. 

SOFT  BOILED  EGGS. 

Drop  into  boiling  water,  put  saucepan,  covered,  where  it 
will  simmer,  but  not  boil,  for  8  or  10  minutes,  or  until 
the  egg  dries  as  soon  as  removed  from  water.     Or 

Put  into  cold  water,  place  over  a  hot  fire,  and  when 
water  boils,  remove  the  egg. 

EGG  VERMICELLI. 

Boil  3  eggs  20  minutes.  Separate  the  yolks  and  chop 
the  whites  fine.  Make  1  cup  of  thin  white  sauce  and  stir 
the  whites  into  it  and  mix  well.  Pour  the  sauce  over  4 
or  5  slices  of  toast  and  rub  the  yolks  through  a  strainer 

76 


New  England  Cook  Book 


over  the  whole.     Garnish  with  points  of  toast  and  slices 
of  bacon. 

CUPPED  EGGS. 
Put  i  tablespoon  of  good  high-seasoned  brown  gravy 
into  each  cup  and  set  the  cups  in  a  pan  of  boiling  water. 
When  gravy  heats,  drop  a  fresh  egg  into  each  cup.  Set 
the  pan  on  back  of  stove,  cover  it  until  the  eggs  are 
cooked.     Serve  on  a  hot  plate. 

POACHED  EGGS. 

Place  4  muffin  rings  in  a  pan  of  boiling  water  and  add 
i  teaspoon  of  salt.  Break  the  eggs  one  at  a  time  in  a 
saucer  and  then  slip  off  carefully  into  a  ring.  Baste  each 
with  hot  water  while  cooking.  Let  simmer  until  firm 
enough  to  lift  with  a  skimmer;  place  on  buttered  toast. 

SCRAMBLED  EGGS. 

Beat  4  eggs  slightly,  add  ]/2  cup  of  milk,  y2  teaspoon 
salt,  i  saltspoon  pepper.  Put  2  teaspoons  butter  in  a 
saucepan,  and  when  it  bubbles  turn  in  the  egg  mixture 
and  cook  over  boiling  water  until  creamy.  Serve  at 
once.  Chopped  ham  or  tongue  may  be  added,  just  before 
removing  from  fire  (about  1  tablespoon). 

STUFFED  EGGS. 

Boil  6  eggs  20  minutes.  Plunge  into  cold  water  for  1 
minute.  Remove  the  shells  and  cut  lengthwise,  then 
scoop  out  the  yolk,  being  careful  not  to  break  the  white ; 
put  the  two  whites  of  each  egg  together.  Mash  the  yolk, 
add  y2  the  quantity  of  cold  ham  chopped  fine,  a  few 

77 


New  England  Cook  Book 


drops  of  onion  juice,  I  teaspoon  melted  butter,  dash  of 
cayenne,  a  few  grains  of  celery  salt  and  a  little  chopped 
parsley.  If  veal,  chicken  or  lamb  be  used,  season  highly 
with  salt,  cayenne,  mustard  and  chopped  parsley.  Fill 
the  whites  with  the  mixture,  smooth  them,  and  press  the 
two  halves  together.  Spread  the  remainder  of  the  mix- 
ture on  a  buttered  dish,  place  the  eggs  on  it.  Cover 
with  a  thin  white  sauce;  sprinkle  with  buttered  cracker 
crumbs  and  cheese  and  bake  until  a  light  brown. 

STUFFED  EGGS.  (No.  2.) 
Drop  as  many  eggs  as  needed  into  boiling  water ;  cover 
and  place  the  saucepan  where  the  water  will  keep  hot 
without  boiling,  about  20  or  30  minutes.  Plunge  the  eggs 
in  cold  water  for  1  minute;  remove  the  shells  and  cut  in 
halves  lengthwise.  With  a  sharp  pointed  knife,  take  out 
the  yolk  and  mash  through  a  coarse  strainer;  add  l/z 
quantity  of  chicken,  veal,  beef  or  lamb  and  moisten  with 
Sauce  Tartare.  Fill  the  whites  with  this  mixture,  and 
press  the  two  halves  together.  When  ready  to  serve, 
pour  over  the  rest  of  the  sauce.  Mayonnaise  dressing 
may  be  used.     This  is  nice  for  lunch  or  picnics. 

EGG  SANDWICHES. 

Chop  the  white  of  hard  boiled  eggs  very  fine.  Put  the 
yolks  through  a  strainer  and  mix  with  them  melted  butter 
or  cream  to  moisten,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste;  then  add 
the  chopped  whites  and  spread  on  buttered  bread,  cut 
very  thin,  putting  two  together. 

78 


New  England  Cook  Book 


HAM  SANDWICHES. 

Cream  y2  cup  of  butter,  add  i  teaspoon  made  mustard, 
yi  teaspoon  salt,  shake  of  cayenne  pepper  and  the  beaten 
yolk  of  i  egg.  Mix  with  finely  minced  ham  and  spread 
on  thin  slices  of  bread,  cut  in  any  shape  desired.  One 
teaspoon  each  of  finely  chopped  pickles,  capers,  onion  and 
parsley  may  be  added,  if  desired. 

ROAST  BEEF  SANDWICH. 

Cut  some  rare  beef  and  chop  very  fine;  season  with 
salt  and  pepper.  To  l/z  cup  of  Mayonnaise  dressing  add 
2  tablespoons  of  whipped  cream,  i  small  tablespoon 
grated  horse  radish  and  2  teaspoons  of  chopped  olives  or 
cucumbers,  and  mix  enough  chopped  beef  to  spread 
easily.  Butter  end  of  loaf  of  bread  and  cut  slices  very 
thin;  spread  evenly  with  the  meat.  Cut  in  any  desired 
shape. 

HINTS  ON  COOKING  VEGETABLES. 

The  principle  underlying  the  cooking  of  vegetables  are 
the  softening  of  the  cellulose,  the  cooking  of  the  starch 
properly,  the  saving  of  the  proteids  and  minerals  and 
rendering  the  proteids  more  digestible  and  the  develop- 
ment of  flavor. 

Firm  vegetables,  as  roots  or  fibres,  are  best  baked; 
owing  to  the  high  temperature  of  the  oven,  the  bursting 
of  the  starch  cells  takes  place  properly. 

Any  green  vegetable  is  best  cooked  slowly  in  its  own 
juice,  thus  retaining  the  mineral  salt. 

79 


New  England  Cook  Book 


All  green  vegetables  should  be  cooked  with  the  sauce 
pan  uncovered. 

Have  them  as  fresh  as  possible,  and  cook  on  day  they 
are  gathered.  Pick  over,  and  cut  off  any  decayed  leaves 
and  wash  in  several  waters.  Put  vegetables,  when  pared, 
into  cold  water  to  prevent  discoloration,  until  ready  to 
cook  in  boiling  salted  water. 

HASHED   BROWN  POTATOES. 

One  quart  of  cold  potatoes  cut  into  cubes,  sprinkle  with 
i  teaspoon  salt,  I  saltspoon  of  pepper.  Brown  i  table- 
spoon of  butter,  add  i  tablespoon  of  flour  and  mix  well ; 
pour  on  slowly  i  cup  of  stock,  add  potatoes ;  season  with 
salt  and  peper.     Cook  10  minutes,  fold  over  and  brown. 

FRIED  POTATOES. 

Cut  cold  potatoes  into  slices  about  a  quarter  of  an  inch. 
Melt  2  or  3  tablespoons  of  drippings  in  a  frying  pan,  and 
when  hot,  add  the  potatoes,  season  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Cook  potatoes  until  brown,  then  turn  and  brown  the  other 
side,  i  tablespoon  of  cold  chopped  ham  may  be  sprinkled 
over  the  potatoes. 

POTATOES   EN   SURPRISE. 

Season  i  pint  of  hot  mashed  potatoes  with  2  table- 
spoons of  butter,  ]/2  saltspoon  of  pepper,  speck  of 
cayenne,  y2  teaspoon  of  salt,  1  saltspoon  of  celery  salt 
and  a  few  drops  of  onion  juice.  When  slightly  cool  add 
the  yolk  of  1  egg,  beaten  well.  Shape  into  small  balls 
and  fill  the  centers  with  creamed  fish  or  meat ;  roll  in 

80 


New  England  Cook  Book 


crumbs,  then  in  egg  and  then  in  crumbs  again.  Fry  in 
hot  lard  until  light  brown.  Drain  on  brown  paper  and 
serve  hot. 

POTATOES  A  LA  MAITRE  D'  HOTEL. 
Prepare  the  Maitre  d'Hotel  butter.  Cream  2  table- 
spoons of  butter,  add  1  teaspoon  lemon  juice,  y2  teaspoon 
salt,  1  saltspoon  pepper  and  a  shake  of  celery  salt,  1 
tablespoon  chopped  parsley.  Cut  1  pint  cold  potatoes  in 
cubes  and  put  in  a  hot  spider,  add  enough  milk  to  cover, 
and  when  nearly  absorbed  stir  in  the  Maitre  d'Hotel 
butter  and  serve  at  once. 

MASHED  POTATOES. 

Mash  boiled  potatoes  with  a  wire  masher  until  free 
from  lumps.  For  every  2  cups  of  potato  add  2  table- 
spoons of  butter,  1  teaspoon  salt,  %  teaspoon  each  of 
white  pepper  and  celery  salt,  and  enough  hot  milk  to 
moisten.  Beat  vigorously  and  pile  lightly  on  a  hot  dish. 
Do  not  put  in  the  oven,  as  that  makes  them  heavy. 

CREAMED  POTATOES. 

Cut  cold  boiled  potatoes  into  cubes.  Melt  2  table- 
spoons butter,  add  4  tablespoons  of  flour,  1  saltspoon  salt 
and  a  shake  of  pepper  and  cook  until  well  mixed,  being 
careful  not  to  burn.  Then  pour  on  gradually  1  pint  of 
boiling  milk  and  beat  well  to  prevent  lumps.  Add  1  pint 
of  potatoes  and  stir  until  they  become  hot.  Add  1  tea- 
spoon of  chopped  parsley  and  serve  at  once. 

81 


New  England  Cook  Book 


LYONNAISE  POTATOES. 

Melt  i  tablespoon  of  butter,  add  I  tablespoon  of 
chopped  onion  and  cook  until  a  pale  yellow.  Then  add  I 
pint  of  cold  potatoes  cut  in  cubes,  season  with  salt  and 
pepper.  Stir  with  a  fork  until  all  the  butter  has  been 
absorbed,  being  careful  not  to  break.  Add  i  tablespoon 
of  chopped  parsley  and  serve  very  hot. 

BOILED  POTATOES. 

Select  potatoes  of  uniform  size.  Scrub  thoroughly, 
either  with  a  small  brush  or  coarse  cloth.  Pare  them 
(except  when  new)  as  thinly  as  possible,  and  soak  in  cold 
water.  Put  on  to  boil  in  a  porcelain  or  granite  stewpan 
and  cover  with  boiling  water,  to  which  has  been  added  I 
tablespoon  of  salt,  and  cook  gently  for  half  an  hour  or 
until  soft ;  should  potatoes  remain  hard  in  the  centre  add 
I  cup  of  cold  water  and  continue  boiling  until  done. 
Drain  off  every  drop  of  water  and  serve  at  once.  If 
necessary  to  wait,  place  on  back  of  range  and  cover  with 
a  folded  towel,  to  let  the  steam  escape. 

BAKED   POTATOES. 

Select  smooth  potatoes  of  the  same  size.  Scrub  well. 
Bake  on  the  grate,  in  a  hot  oven,  for  I  hour  or  until  soft. 
Turn  once  or  twice  whilst  baking.  Pinch  to  break  the 
skin  and  let  the  steam  escape.     Serve  at  once. 

FRANCONIA  POTATOES.     (Baked  with  meat.) 

Select  potatoes  of  uniform  size.  Scrub,  pare  and  soak 
in  cold  water.     Put  in  the  dripping  pan  with  meat,  and 

82 


New  England  Cook  Book 


baste  when  meat  is  basted.  They  can  be  parboiled  for 
10  minutes  if  in  a  hurry.  Time  required  for  baking  about 
40  minutes. 

POTATO  SOUFFLE. 

Choose  3  potatoes  as  nearly  alike  as  possible  in  size 
and  shape ;  scrub  and  bake,  and  when  well  done  cut  in 
halves  lengthwise  or  remove  1  thick  slice  and  carefully 
scoop  out  the  inside.  Mash,  and  add  1  tablespoon  butter, 
1  tablespoon  of  hot  milk,  1  saltspoon  of  salt  and  a  shake 
of  cayenne  or  paprika.  Beat  the  whites  of  2  eggs  stiff 
or  1  whole  egg  and  mix  it  with  the  potato  and  pile  lightly 
in  the  skins,  heaping  them  on  top.  Moisten  the  tops  with 
a  little  of  the  egg. 

STUFFED  EGG  PLANT.     (Southern  recipe.) 

Cut  egg  plant  in  halves,  crosswise;  scoop  out  the  pulp, 
being  careful  not  to  work  too  near  the  skin.  Mash  the 
pulp,  add  1  cup  of  finely  sifted  cracker  crumbs,  butter 
the  size  of  an  egg,  a  little  salt,  and  pepper  to  taste,  and 
about  %  teaspoon  mace,  and  moisten  with  a  little  hot 
water  or  stock.  Fill  shells  with  stuffing,  smoothing  it 
even  with  the  top.  Sprinkle  a  little  very  fine  cracker 
crumbs  over  and  dot  with  butter.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven 
about  one-half  an  hour. 

STEWED  TOMATOES. 

Pour  boiling  water  over  them,  remove  skins  and  the 
hard  green  stem.  Cut  them  up  and  stew  slowly  in  a 
saucepan  until  the  juice  has  nearly  boiled  away.     Add 

83 


New  England  Cook  Book 


salt,  pepper,  butter  and  sugar.     If  you  like,  you  may 
thicken  with  cracker  crumbs. 

BOILED  CARROTS. 

Wash,  scrape  and  cut  into  half-inch  dice;  put  on  to 
cook  in  boiling  salted  water  until  tender.  Drain;  add 
pepper,  salt  and  a  little  butter,  stir  well  and  serve  at 
once. 

BOILED  BEETS. 

Wash  and  boil  beets  for  I  hour  or  until  tender,  in  boil- 
ing salted  water.  When  cooked  put  in  a  pan  of  cold 
water  and  rub  off  the  skins  and  slice  thin.  Serve  with 
salt,  pepper  and  vinegar  or  cut  into  cubes  and  serve  with 
white  sauce. 

STRING  BEANS. 

Cut  off  all  strings  carefully;  break  into  short  lengths 
and  wash.  Boil  in  salted  water  until  tender,  from  i  to  3 
hours.  Drain.  Season  with  butter,  salt,  pepper  and 
nutmeg,  or  pour  over  1  cup  of  thin  white  sauce  to  1  quart 
of  beans  and  simmer  10  minutes.     Serve  at  once. 

MASHED   TURNIPS. 
Wash  and  cut  French  turnips  into  half-inch  slices ;  pare 
and  cut  into  cubes.     Cook  in  boiling  salted  water  until 
tender.     Drain.     Mash  and  season  with  butter,  pepper 
and  salt. 

BAKED  SQUASH. 
Wash  and  cut  a  Hubbard  squash  into  halves.     Remove 
the  seeds  and  pulp,  scrape  thoroughly,  place  on  the  grate 

84 


New  England  Cook  Book 


of  the  oven  and  bake  nearly  2  hours.  When  done, 
remove  from  the  shell,  put  through  a  colander  and  season 
to  taste  with  3  teaspoons  salt,  1  teaspoon  pepper,  2  tea- 
spoons sugar,  3  tablespoons  butter  and  a  grating  of  nut- 
meg, for  a  squash  weighing  6  or  7  pounds. 

BOILED  SQUASH.  (Southern  recipe.) 
Wash  and  cut  in  slices,  then  in  cubes,  and  put  on  to 
cook  in  boiling  water,  to  which  has  been  added  a  table- 
spoon of  salt  and  1  tablespoon  of  sugar,  and  cook  until 
soft.  Season  with  butter,  salt  and  pepper.  Put  in  a  dish, 
set  in  the  oven  for  about  20  minutes  to  dry.  (Drain  well 
before  putting  it  into  the  oven.) 

BOILED  ONIONS. 

Pour  boiling  water  over  them,  and  rub  off  the  skin. 
Put  them  in  boiling  salted  water  and  cook  for  5  minutes. 
Drain ;  put  on  again  in  boiling  salted  water  and  cook  until 
tender,  but  not  broken.  Drain,  and  pour  over  white 
sauce,  and  serve  hot. 

STUFFED  PEPPERS. 

Select  large  peppers,  cut  in  halves,  crosswise ;  remove 
seeds  with  an  apple  corer,  cut  off  the  stem,  and  keep  in 
salted  water  until  ready  to  use.  Drain.  For  6  peppers, 
chop  enough  veal,  chicken  or  lamb,  free  from  gristle  and 
fat,  to  make  1  cup.  Cook  y2  cup  of  milk  and  y2  cup  of 
bread  crumbs  together,  until  a  smooth  paste  is  formed. 
Add  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  1  saltspoon  white  pepper,  a  few 
drops  of  onion  juice,  2  teaspoons  butter,  2  eggs,  well 

85 


New  England  Cook  Book 


beaten,  meat  and  I  tablespoon  of  parsley,  if  on  hand. 
Mix  thoroughly,  and  fill  the  peppers  with  the  mixture. 
Set  them  into  an  agate  pan,  and  pour  3  cups  of  white 
stock  or  water  around  them.  Bake  about  30  minutes  in 
a  moderate  oven.  Baste  the  peppers  (not  the  filling) 
every  10  minutes.  If  liked  highly  seasoned,  a  few  of  the 
seeds  may  be  used  in  the  filling.  These  may  be  also 
cooked  by  placing  in  a  stewpan,  adding  1  bay  leaf  to  the 
water  and  simmer  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 
BAKED  ONION. 

Boil,  and  if  large,  cut  into  quarters.  Put  into  a  shallow 
dish,  cover  with  a  white  sauce  and  buttered  crumbs  and 
bake  until  brown. 

BOILED  CABBAGE. 

Select  a  small  heavy  cabbage.  Remove  the  outside 
leaves,  cut  into  quarters,  cut  off  the  tough  stalk,  soak  in 
salted  water  for  1  hour.  Have  a  kettle  of  rapidly  boiling 
salted  water.  Add  %  teaspoon  soda  and  cabbage.  Uncover 
and  keep  at  a  galloping  boil,  for  1  hour  or  until  tender. 
Drain.  Chop  fine,  season  with  salt  and  pepper;  put  in  a 
hot  dish  and  serve. 

Hint:  Put  a  little  vinegar  in  a  separate  saucepan,  and 
let  it  boil  all  the  time,  and  you  will  have  no  odor  of  cab- 
bage cooking. 

CREAMED  TURNIPS. 

Wash  turnips,  cut  in  slices  and  then  in  y2  -inch  cubes. 
Cook  1  quart  in  boiling  salted  water  until  soft.  Drain ; 
pour  over  1  pint  of  white  sauce. 

86 


New  England  Cook  Book 


CAULIFLOWER. 

The  leaves  should  be  green  and  fresh,  and  the  heads 
creamy  white.  Pick  off  the  outside  leaves.  Wash  and 
put  on  to  cook  gently  in  boiling  salted  water  I  hour,  or 
until  tender.  Take  up  with  a  skimmer,  being  careful  not 
to  break  it.  Pour  over  it  a  cream  sauce. 
ARTICHOKES. 

Peel  and  throw  into  cold  water  and  vinegar.  Cook  in 
boiling  salted  water  until  tender ;  remove  at  once.  Drain. 
Serve  with  white  sauce. 

EGG  PLANT. 

Cut  into  slices  J^-inch  thick;  soak  in  cold  water  (to 
which  salt  has  been  added)  for  i  hour,  and  wipe  peel 
dry.  Dip  each  slice  in  cracker  crumbs,  beaten  egg,  and 
then  in  crumbs  again.  Fry  in  hot  fat  in  a  frying  pan  for 
10  minutes.  The  slices  will  be  soft  and  moist  when 
done. 

SPINACH. 

Pick  over,  trim  off  the  roots  and  decayed  leaves.  Wash 
several  times  in  warm  water,  changing  the  spinach  from 
one  pan  to  another,  that  the  sand  may  be  left  in  the 
water,  and  continue  washing  until  the  water  looks  clear. 
(Warm  water  cleans  it  best.)  Put  the  spinach  in  a  large 
saucepan  and  place  on  the  back  of  the  range.  When 
there  is  about  a  tablespoon  of  water,  push  a  little  forward, 
where  it  will  cook  slowly  (uncovered),  in  its  own  juices, 
until  tender.  Drain,  and  chop  fine  in  a  chopping  tray. 
For  Yz  peck  of  spinach  add  3  tablespoons  of  butter,  ^ 

87 


New  England  Cook  Book 


teaspoon  salt,  a  shake  of  cayenne  and  a  grating  of  nut- 
meg.    Heat  again  and  serve  very  hot. 

SPINACH  NO.  2.     (French  style.) 

Pick  over,  wash  in  several  waters  until  free  from  grit. 
Put  the  spinach  in  a  saucepan  with  plenty  of  boiling 
salted  water.  Stir  it  frequently,  letting  it  boil  15  or  20 
minutes.  Take  it  out,  and  drain  through  a  strainer. 
Chop  very  fine  and  drain  off  every  drop  of  water.  For  1 
peck  of  spinach,  put  2  large  tablespoons  of  butter  into  a 
saucepan  and  melt ;  add  1  large  tablespoon  flour,  4  or  5 
spoonfuls  of  rich  cream,  1  teaspoon  sugar  and  1  salt- 
spoon  nutmeg.  Mix  well,  and  when  they  have  come  to 
a  boil,  add  the  spinach;  simmer  for  10  minutes,  stirring 
frequently.     Serve  at  once. 

ASPARAGUS. 

Wash  carefully  and  break  into  small  pieces  as  far  as 
each  stalk  can  be  broken  easily.  Cook  in  boiling  salted 
water  for  20  minutes  or  until  tender.  Drain,  season 
with  salt,  pepper  and  butter,  or  pour  over  white  sauce. 

GREEN  PEAS. 

Wash  the  pods ;  then  shell ;  put  into  boiling  salted  water 
and  cook  20  minutes,  or  until  tender.  Let  the  water  boil 
nearly  away  and  serve  without  draining.  Season  with 
salt,  Y-2  saltspoon  pepper,  y2  saltspoon  nutmeg,  1  table- 
spoon butter  and  a  little  sugar.  A  tablespoon  of  cream 
may  be  added. 

88 


New  England  Cook  Book 


STUFFED  TOMATOES. 

Cut  a  thin  slice  from  the  stem  end  of  large,  smooth 
tomatoes;  remove  the  seeds  and  soft  pulp  and  mix  with 
it  an  equal  amount  of  buttered  cracker  or  bread  crumbs, 
season  to  taste  with  salt,  pepper,  sugar  and  onion  juice,  a 
bay  leaf  (ground)  and  a  pinch  of  nutmeg.  If  not  moist 
enough,  add  a  little  hot  gravy  or  water.  Fill  cavities  with 
this  mixture  and  sprinkle  buttered  cracker  crumbs  over 
the  top,  allowing  I  cup  of  crumbs  to  1-3  cup  of  melted 
butter.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven  about  20  minutes.  A  bit  of 
ham  or  bacon,  chopped  fine,  may  be  used  with  the  filling, 
if  liked. 

CORN. 

Remove  the  husks  and  every  thread  of  the  silky  fibre. 
Put  into  a  saucepan  of  boiling  water,  and  cook  10  to  15 
minutes.     Long  cooking  renders  corn  tough. 
CELERY. 

Wash,  scrape  clean  and  cut  the  stalks  into  inch  pieces ; 
cook  in  boiling  salted  water  until  soft.     Drain,  and  mix 
with  a  white  sauce.     Serve  hot  at  once. 
BOILED  PUMPKIN. 

Wash,  cut  into  quarters,  pare,  remove  seeds  and  steam 
or  cook  in  boiling  salted  water.  Scrape  out  the  soft  part, 
rub  through  a  coarse  strainer;  season  with  salt,  pepper, 
sugar,  a  few  grains  of  nutmeg  and  a  little  butter. 

OYSTER  PLANT. 

Scrape  and  throw  at  once  into  cold  water,  with  a  little 
vinegar,  to  keep  it  from  being  discolored.     Cook  in  boil- 

89 


New  England  Cook  Book 


ing  salted  water  until  tender.  Drain,  cut  about  an  inch 
long  and  mix  with  a  white  sauce,  or  dip  in  fritter  batter 
and  fry  in  smoking  hot  fat. 

SHELL  BEANS. 

Wash  and  cook  in  boiling  salted  water  and  cook  until 
tender.  Turn  into  a  colander,  pour  boiling  water  over 
them,  and  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  butter.  Serve  at 
once. 

BOILED  RICE. 

Put  i  cup  of  rice  in  cold  water  and  rub  thoroughly 
between  the  hands ;  put  on  to  boil  in  2  quarts  of  cold 
water  until  tender.     Drain. 

SCALLOPED   CABBAGE. 

Soak  2  heads  of  cabbage,  cut  in  slices,  1  hour.  Boil 
until  tender ;  drain,  chop  the  cabbage,  rather  coarse.   Melt 

2  tablespoons  of  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  add  2 
tablespoons     of     flour     and     the     cabbage,     and     cook 

3  or  4  minutes;  stir  well,  and  add  about  1 
cup  of  milk,  season  with  salt  and  pepper  to  taste;  sim- 
mer 10  minutes.  Put  in  a  baking  dish,  cover  with  but- 
tered cracker  crumbs  and  bake  until  light  brown. 

SCALLOPED  TOMATOES. 

Remove  the  contents  of  a  can  of  tomatoes  and  let  it 
(to  become  aerated)  stand  for  1  hour;  season  with  a 
pinch  of  soda,  salt,  pepper,  sugar  and  nutmeg  to  taste. 
Butter  a  deep  dish  and  sprinkle  with  a  little  fine  cracker 
crumbs.     Pour  in  the  tomatoes  and  cover  with  1  cup  of 


90 


New  England  Cook  Book 


cracker  crumbs  moistened  in  y2  cup  of  melted  butter. 
Bake  in  the  oven  about  30  minutes,  or  until  crumbs  are 
brown.  Raw  tomatoes  may  be  used  by  arranging  them 
in  the  following  manner.  A  layer  of  sliced  raw  tomatoes, 
seasoning,  and  then  a  layer  of  buttered  cracker  crumbs, 
and  so  on  until  all  are  used,  having  cracker  crumbs  on 
top.     Bake  until  soft. 

STUFFED  ONIONS. 

Boil  6  onions  1  hour,  cool,  then  with  a  sharp  knife  cut 
a  piece  from  the  centre  of  each;  mix  2  tablespoons 
chopped  ham,  3  of  stale  bread  crumbs,  2  tablespoons  of 
butter  (melted),  3  tablespoons  of  cream  or  milk,  salt  to 
taste  and  a  shake  of  cayenne  together.  Fill  cavities  with 
this  mixture.  Sprinkle  with  buttered  cracker  crumbs 
and  bake  slowly  y2  hour.     Serve  with  white  sauce. 

FRIED  TOMATOES. 

Wipe  and  cut  into  slices  about  y2 -inch  thick.  Mix  y2 
cup  of  flour  and  1  tablespoon  of  brown  sugar,  1  saltspoon 
of  black  pepper,  y2  teaspoon  salt  and  1  saltspoon  of 
cayenne  pepper  together.  Dredge  well  on  both  sides  with 
the  dry  mixture  and  fry  in  equal  parts  of  drippings  and 
lard. 

BAKED  TOMATOES. 

Wipe  and  remove  a  thin  slice  from  stem  end  of  a  half 
dozen  tomatoes.  Dip  the  top  of  the  tomato  in  beaten  egg, 
then  in  cracker  crumbs,  in  which  a  little  sugar,  salt  and 

91 


New  England  Cook  Book 


pepper  have  been  mixed ;  dot  over  with  bits  of  butter  and 
bake  in  a  hot  oven  until  soft. 

IRISH  CREAM  CABBAGE. 

Wash  in  several  waters  I  white  hard  head  of  cabbage. 
Boil  until  tender;  drain,  chop  very  fine;  add  Yn  large 
onion,  mix  well  together  and  place  in  saucepan.  Add  I 
cup  of  cream  or  2  cups  of  milk  thickened  with  butter  and 
flour  and  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper.     Serve  very  hot. 

CREAMED  PARSNIPS. 

Wash  parsnips  well,  pare  and  place  in  a  saucepan  with 
fresh  boiling  water ;  cook  until  tender.  Drain,  and  cut 
in  small  pieces  about  an  inch  long.  Pour  over  it  a  white 
sauce  that  has  been  thickened  to  liking,  and  boil  slowly 
for  5  minutes. 

MACARONI. 

Break  1  pound  of  macaroni  into  small  pieces  and  put 
on  to  cook  in  plenty  of  boiling  salted  water  for  10  min- 
utes; remove  the  cover,  stir  the  macaroni  well  and  cook 
until  it  can  be  cut  in  two  with  a  fork.  Drain  and  let  cold 
water  run  over  it  through  the  colander,  to  remove  pasti- 
ness ;  then  place  strainer  over  hot  water  to  heat  again. 
Put  1  tablespoon  butter  on  to  melt  in  a  saucepan,  add 
macaroni  and  1  cup  of  tomato  sauce;  toss  over  the  fire 
until  thoroughly  mixed,  sprinkle  it  rather  thickly  with 
grated  Parmesan  cheese  and  pour  it  into  a  hot  dish,  add- 
ing, if  liked,  1  or  2  tablespoons  of  strong  gravy  or  stock 
to  the  mixture.     Serve  at  once.     Macaroni  may  be  served 

92 


New  England  Cook  Book 


with  white  sauce,  grated  cheese  or  cracker  crumbs  on  top 
and  baked  for  10  minutes. 

MACARONI  NO.  2.  (Italian  recipe.) 
Have  a  large  kettle  nearly  full  of  rapidly  boiling  water. 
Break  1  pound  of  macaroni  into  2  or  3-inch  pieces  and 
drop  into  the  water  and  boil  for  1  hour,  or  until  tender, 
adding  a  handful  of  salt,  after  it  has  been  boiling  ]/z 
hour;  just  before  taking  it  off,  pour  in  1  cup  of  cold 
water.  Drain,  put  in  a  hot  dish,  set  on  back  of  range, 
add  a  little  pepper,  a  lump  of  cheese,  and,  when  melted, 
stir,  and  serve  at  once.  In  place  of  cheese,  tomato  sauce 
may  be  poured  over  it. 

STEAMED  RICE. 
Pick  over  and  wash  1  cup  of  rice  in  several  waters 
until  it  looks  clear.  Put  in  a  double  boiler  with  2  cups  of 
boiling  water  and  a  teaspoon  salt.  Steam  30  minutes,  or 
until  the  grains  feel  soft  when  crushed  between  the 
fingers. 

LETTUCE. 

Lettuce  leaves  should  be  thoroughly  washed  and  dried 
without  breaking  the  leaves.  To  dry  them,  place  in  a 
wire  basket  and  swing  the  leaves  until  dry.  A  bag  of 
cheese  cloth  will  answer.  They  may  then  be  laid  in  a 
cool  place,  wrapped  in  a  damp  cloth. 

FRENCH  DRESSING. 

Six  tablespoons  oil,  2  tablespoons  tarragon  vinegar,  J/2 
teaspoon  salt,   1   saltspoon  paprika,    Add  the  salt  and 

93 


New  England  Cook  Book 


pepper  to  the  oil  and  mix  thoroughly ;  add  vinegar,  drop 
by  drop,  and  stir  vigirously.  This  mixture  will  separate 
in  about  20  minutes. 

MAYONNAISE  DRESSING. 

One-half  teaspoon  of  salt,  y2  teaspoon  of  mustard,  x/2 
teaspoon  of  powdered  sugar,  a  few  grains  of  cayenne,  the 
yolks  of  2  raw  eggs,  1  pint  of  olive  oil,  2  tablespoons 
lemon  juice  and  2  tablespoons  of  vinegar.  Mix  the  dry 
ingredients  in  a  bowl.  Add  the  yolks  of  the  eggs,  which 
must  be  fresh ;  beat  with  a  wooden  spoon  until  the  mix- 
ture is  slightly  thickened;  add  x/2  teaspoon  vinegar,  and 
when  well  blended  with  the  other  ingredients,  add  the  oil, 
drop  by  drop,  beating  constantly.  After  several  tea- 
spoons of  oil  have  been  used,  the  oil  may  be  added  faster. 
When  the  mixture  becomes  too  thick,  add  a  little  of  the 
lemon  juice,  then  more  oil,  and  continue  alternating,  and 
lastly  add  the  vinegar.  Put  on  ice.  Never  mix  it  with 
anything  until  ready  to  use,  as  it  liquifies. 

MAYONNAISE  DRESSING  (NO.  2). 
Yolks  of  2  hard  boiled  eggs,  yolks  of  2  raw  eggs,  1  tea- 
spoon of  salt,  1  tablespoon  of  mustard,  a  pinch  of  cayenne 
pepper,  y2  cup  of  melted  butter,  y2  cup  of  vinegar.  Rub 
the  yolks  of  the  hard  boiled  eggs  smooth,  using  a  small 
wooden  spoon;  beat  in  the  yolks  of  the  raw  eggs,  then 
add  salt,  pepper,  mustard.  Beat  well.  Add  vinegar 
and  butter  alternately,  using  only  a  little  at  a  time. 

94 


New  England  Cook  Book 


BOILED  DRESSING  (NO.  2). 

Mix  l/2  teaspoon  salt,  pepper  and  mustard  to  taste,  2 
tablespoons  flour,  1  heaping  tablespoon  butter,  melted,  and 
1  egg,  well  beaten.  Beat  them  all  together,  then  pour 
over  y2  cup  of  hot  vinegar ;  set  on  stove  and  let  come  to 
a  boil. 

CELERY  SALAD. 

Wash  and  cut  celery  into  half -inch  length  pieces ; 
moisten  with  a  little  vinegar,  salt,  dash  of  cayenne  and 
pour  over  it  mayonnaise  dressing.  This  salad  is  to  be 
served  at  once. 

POTATO  AND  WATERCRESS  SALAD. 

Cut  into  cubes  freshly  boiled  potatoes  and  season 
slightly  with  salt,  pepper,  oil  and  vinegar.  Add  carefully 
picked  watercress,  similarly  seasoned ;  mix  well  and 
serve  with  stoned  olives  or  triangular  croutons,  spread 
alternately  with  egg  and  anchovy  butter. 

DANDELION   SALAD. 

Cut  some  dandelions  as  low  down  as  possible  so  as  to 
get  white  stalks ;  wash  thoroughly  and  mix  with  an  equal 
quantity  of  watercress  and  a  few  drops  of  onion  juice. 
Dress  with  French  dressing. 

BEET  SALAD. 
Cut  cold   cooked   beets   into  cubes,   marinate   with   a 
French  dressing  and  place  on  ice  until  ready  to  serve. 
Add  more  dressing  and  place  on  crisp  lettuce  leaves  and 
serve. 

95 


New  England  Cook  Book 


COLD  SLAW. 

Take  2  cups  of  finely  shaved  cabbage.  Boil  1  scant 
cup  of  vinegar,  add  1  heaping  tablespoon  of  butter ;  pour 
this  over  2  eggs,  well  beaten,  to  which  has  been  added  1 
tablespoon  of  mustard,  J4  teaspoon  of  salt,  a  shake  of 
cayenne  pepper  and  2  teaspoons  sugar.  Mix  well  and 
pour  over  the  cabbage. 

CELERY  AND  CHICKEN  SALAD  IN  TOMATO  CUPS. 

Cut  in  centres  from  the  tops  of  some  tomatoes  that 
are  firm  and  uniform  in  shape;  scoop  out  the  inside  after 
cutting  away  the  fleshy  sections  with  a  sharp  knife,  then 
when  quite  hollow  set  on  ice  until  serving  time ;  lift  from 
the  ice  with  a  spoon  or  broad  knife,  so  as  not  to  get  them 
out  of  shape.  For  the  filling,  cut  1  stalk  of  celery  into 
very  small  cubes ;  chop  1  apple  very  fine  and  sprinkle 
with  lemon  juice,  chop  y2  cup  of  chicken  meat,  rather 
coarsely,  and  mix  all  together  with  a  French  dressing. 
Put  this  into  the  tomato  cups  and  place  a  heaping  table- 
spoonful  of  mayonnaise  on  top  of  each.  Garnish  with 
watercress.  In  very  warm  weather  cover  tomato  cups 
with  cracked  ice  and  salt,  to  have  them  keep  their  shape. 

DUCK  SALAD. 

One  cupful  of  duck,  chopped  very  fine,  4  oranges 
sliced  and  cut  fine  and  freed  from  seeds  and  skins,  2 
lemons,  sliced  and  cut  fine,  and  1  cupful  of  chopped 
celery.  Mix  together  and  place  on  lettuce  leaves.  Cook 
1  cup  of  English  walnuts,  1  quart  of  water,  1  slice  of 

96 


New  England  Cook  Book 


onion,  I  bay  leaf,  salt  and  pepper.  Drain.  Put  nuts 
over  the  salad  and  cover  with  a  mayonnaise  or  boiled 
dressing. 

FRUIT  SALAD. 

Take  equal  parts  of  cherries,  raspberries  and  currants, 
keep  on  ice  till  needed,  then  cover  with  a  foamy  sauce. 
This  sauce  will  be  found  very  nice  for  any  fruit  salad. 
FRUIT  SALAD  (NO.  2). 

Equal  parts  of  each.  Take  pineapple  and  slice  very 
thin,  removing  cores,  sliced  oranges  cut  in  circles,  seeds 
removed,  and  bananas,  sliced  thin.  The  pineapple  should 
be  covered  in  sugar  for  10  or  12  hours  and  chilled  before 
adding  to  the  other.  Place  in  a  salad  bowl  and  mix  all 
together,  sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar,  and  pour  over  1 
cup  of  sweet  muscatel  wine.  Garnish  with  candied 
cherries  cut  in  quarters. 

SPRING  SALAD. 

Take  crisp  white  celery  and  cut  it  into  dice,  and  tart 
juicy  apples,  cut  as  fine  as  the  celery,  and  cover  with 
lemon  juice.  Use  one-half  as  much  celery  as  apple. 
Cover  with  a  French  dressing  and  place  on  the  ice.  When 
ready  to  serve,  place  on  lettuce  leaves  and  cover  with  a 
mayonnaise  dressing. 

SALMON  SALAD. 

Cut  1  pint  of  salmon  into  dice,  season  with  a  French 
dressing  and  set  on  ice  until  ready  to  serve.  Add  enough 
more  French  dressing  to  make  it  very  moist.     Make  a 

97 


New  England  Cook  Book 


mayonnaise  dressing,  add  I  tablespoon  each  of  chopped 
capers  and  olives  and  gherkin  pickles.  Then  add  one-half 
of  the  mayonnaise  dressing  to  the  salmon  and  mix  well. 
Place  on  lettuce  leaves  and  cover  with  the  remainder  of 
the  mayonnaise. 

TOMATO  SALAD. 

Mix  i  scant  tablespoon  of  sugar,  y2  teaspoon  of  salt,  a 
pinch  of  red  pepper,  I  teaspoon  of  mustard,  %.  cup  of 
cream,  2  eggs,  slightly  beaten,  and  l/2  cup  of  vinegar. 
Cook  over  boiling  water  until  thick  like  custard.  Put 
on  ice,  and  when  ready  to  serve,  pour  over  peeled  sliced 
tomatoes  placed  on  lettuce  leaves. 

SHRIMP  SALAD.     (Chef.) 

One  can  of  shrimps,  3  or  4  whole  tomatoes,  cut  into 
slices,  the  inside  leaves  of  2  heads  of  lettuce ;  the  whole 
covered  with  the  following  dressing:  Boil  2  scant  table- 
spoons of  mixed  mustard  and  2  full  tablespoons  of 
vinegar  together  and  stir  in  the  beaten  yolks  of  4  eggs,  ]/2 
cup  of  cream  and  J4  pound  of  butter;  cook  in  double 
boiler  until  it  looks  like  soft  custard;  if  it  looks  too  thick 
add  a  little  more  cream.  Add  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  1  tea- 
spoon of  sugar,  3  drops  of  onion  juice  and  l/±  saltspoon 
of  cayenne  pepper.  Strain  and  set  away.  This  dressing 
will  keep  a  fortnight  on  ice. 

SHRIMP  SALAD  (NO.  2). 

Cut  the  shrimps  rather  fine  with  a  sharp  knife  and 
mix  with  French  dressing.  At  serving  time,  heap  upon 
crisp  lettuce  leaves  and  pour  over  mayonnaise  dressing. 

98 


New  England  Cook  Book 


SHRIMP  SALAD  (NO  3). 

Cut  shrimps  up  fine  and  moisten  with  a  dressing  made 
of  3  tablespoons  olive  oil,  1  tablespoon  lemon  juice,  1  salt- 
spoon  salt  and  a  dash  of  cayenne.  Serve  on  a  crisp  let- 
tuce leaf  on  each  plate. 

LOBSTER  SALAD. 

Cut  into  shreds  the  meat  of  a  lobster  and  season  with 
plenty  of  French  dressing,  and  keep  on  ice  until  ready  to 
serve.  Mix  with  enough  of  the  mayonnaise  dressing  to 
moisten.  Make  cups  of  crisp  lettuce  leaves,  fill  with 
salad  and  cover  with  mayonnaise  dressing.  Garnish 
with  capers  and  coral. 

CHICKEN  SALAD. 

Cut  1  pint  of  cooked  chicken  intb  dice,  add  y2  pint  of 
crisp  celery,  also  cut  in  dice.  Pour  over  this  a  dressing 
made  of  2  tablespoons  oil,  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  1  salt- 
spoon  paprika,  1  tablespoon  vinegar.  Mix  well  and  set 
away  in  a  cold  place.  Just  before  serving  add  1  table- 
spoon each  of  chopped  olives  and  capers  and  mix  all  with 
2  tablespoons  of  mayonnaise  dressing.  Place  in  a  salad 
bowl,  pour  the  remainder  of  the  dressing  over  it  and 
garnish  with  lettuce  leaves. 

MOCK  CHICKEN  SALAD. 

Cut  1  pint  of  cooked  fresh  pork  into  dice,  add  ]/z  pint 
of  crisp  celery,  also  cut  in  dice.  Pour  over  this  a  dress- 
ing made  of  2  tablespoons  of  oil,  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  1 
tablespoon  of  vinegar.     Mix  well  and  set  away  in  a  cold 

99 


New  England  Cook  Book 


place.  Just  before  serving,  add  i  tablespoon  of  chopped 
olives,  i  tablespoon  of  capers  and  I  red  pepper  that  has 
been  parboiled,  seeds  removed  and  chopped  very  fine,  and 
mix  all  with  2  tablespoons  of  mayonnaise.  Place  in  a 
salad  bowl,  pour  the'  remainder  of  the  dressing  over  it  and 
garnish  with  lettuce  leaves. 

APPLE  AND  NUT  SALAD. 

Chop  up  equal  portions  of  greenings  and  any  kind  of 
nut  meat,  mix  with  mayonnaise  dressing  to  moisten. 
Place  on  a  crisp  lettuce  leaf,  cover  with  mayonnaise 
dressing  and  garnish  with  olives,  celery  leaves  and  slices 
of  hard-boiled  eggs.  This  may  be  served  on  a  large 
platter. 

CLUB  SALAD. 

Take  the  meat  from  the  breast  of  a  duck,  slightly  rare, 
and  cut  into  dice,  add  ^2  the  quantity  of  crisp  white 
celery,  also  diced.  Make  a  bed  in  the  salad  bowl  of 
crisp  lettuce  leaves,  a  little  French  sorrel  and  a  sprinkling 
of  chives;  mix  the  meat  and  celery,  put  over  the  greens 
and  cover  with  a  French  dressing.  When  ready  to  serve, 
garnish  with  ]/\  of  a  tart  orange  and  a  few  radishes  and 
put  on  top  1  large  tablespoon  of  mayonnaise  dressing. 

LETTUCE  SALAD. 

Pick  over  and  wash  each  leaf,  without  breaking.  Put 
in  a  bag  made  of  cheese  cloth  and  shake  until  dry.  Keep 
the  lettuce  in  a  cool  place  until  ready  to  serve.  Arrange 
the  leaves  in  a  salad  bowl,  the  larger  ones  around  the  edge 

IOO 


New  England  Cook  Book 


and  the  smaller  ones  in  the  centre.     Serve  with  a  boiled 
dressing  or  sugar,  salt  and  vinegar  to  taste. 

POTATO  SALAD. 

Slice  freshly  boiled  potatoes,  and  when  cool  toss  them 
lightly  in  oil  and  vinegar;  add  a  sprinkling  of  chopped 
shallot  or  chives.  Add  }&  the  quantity  of  smoked  sal- 
mon; season  with  enough  more  oil  to  make  it  moist,  add 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Cold  boiled  potatoes  may  be 
used,  but  are  not  as  satisfactory. 

POTATO  SALAD  (NO.  2). 

Wash  and  boil  6  large  potatoes,  without  paring,  and 
when  done  let  them  cool.  Peel,  cut  into  slices  or  cubes 
and  pour  the  dressing  over,  whilst  hot.  Mix  together  2 
tablespoons  of  cream,  1  tablespoon  oil,  2  tablespoons  of 
tarragon  or  cider  vinegar,  dash  of  cayenne,  salt  to  taste,  1 
tablespoon  each  of  chopped  onion  and  parsley. 

POTATO  SALAD  (NO.  3). 

One  pint  of  hot  potatoes,  cut  in  cubes,  1  cup  of  choped 
celery,  juice  of  1  small  onion,  2  hard-boiled  eggs,  whites 
chopped  fine  and  yolks  sifted,  and  1  tablespoon  chopped 
parsley;  season  with  a  dash  of  cayenne,  salt  to  taste. 
Mix  with  a  French  dressing.  Keep  on  ice,  and  when 
ready  to  serve,  add  boiled  dressing  to  moisten  and  place 
on  lettuce  leaves. 

WELSH  RAREBIT. 

Rub  the  bottom  of  the  chafing  dish  with  a  clove  or 
garlic.     Put  in  1   round  tablespoon  of  butter  to  melt, 

101 


New  England  Cook  Book 


pour  in  i  gill  of  ale  or  beer,  and  when  it  begins  to  boil 
add  Yi  pound  of  American  cheese,  grated ;  stir  till  smooth 
and  creamy,  and  add  a  dash  of  cayenne,  Y\  teaspoon 
mustard,  i  teaspoon  celery  salt.  Beat  2  eggs  very  light 
and  beat  into  them  gradually  a  few  tablespoons  of  the 
cream  mixture.  When  they  are  thoroughly  blended,  add 
the  egg  mixture  to  the  contents  of  the  chafing  dish, 
stirring  constantly.  Just  before  serving  add  1  teaspoon 
each  of  lemon  juice  and  Worcestershire  sauce.  Serve 
hot  on  toast.     Cream  may  be  used  in  place  of  ale. 


102 


CHAPTER  V. 

Desserts,  Sweet  Sauces  and  Candy 

SURPRISE  PUDDING. 

Wipe,  core  and  pare  6  apples  and  sprinkle  7  teaspoons 
of  sugar  and  7  tablespoons  water  over  them  and  bake 
until  soft.  Make  a  custard  of  the  yolks  of  3  eggs  beaten 
well ;  add  3  tablespoons  of  sugar,  a  speck  of  salt,  nutmeg 
and  1  pint  of  scalded  milk.  Pour  over  the  apples  and 
bake  until  the  custard  is  firm.  When  custard  is  cool, 
cover  with  a  meringue  made  of  the  whites  of  the  egg, 
beaten  stiff,  3  tablespoons  of  sugar  added  gradually  and 
a  few  drops  of  vanilla.  Put  in  the  oven  and  bake  until  a 
light  brown. 

STEAMED  APPLE  PUDDING. 

Fill  a  2  quart  granite  pan  two-thirds  full  of  apples,  cut 
into  eighths;  if  not  juicy,  add  %  cup  of  water;  sprinkle 
over  them  a  scant  ]/2  cup  of  sugar,  pinch  of  cinnamon; 
butter  the  edge  of  the  pan  and  the  inside  of  the  cover. 
Cover  with  a  biscuit  crust,  made  of  1  pint  of  flour,  4 
teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  y2  teaspoon  salt,  3  table- 
spoons of  butter,  2  teaspoons  sugar  and  milk  enough  to 
make  a  soft  dough.  Steam  1^  hours.  Serve  with  lemon, 
molasses  or  hard  sauce. 

103 


New  England  Cook  Book 


STEAMED  BLUEBERRY  PUDDING. 

May  be  made  the  same  as  steamed  apple  pudding, 
sweetening  the  blueberries  before  steaming. 

STEAMED  FRUIT  PUDDING. 

Two  and  one-half  cups  of  flour,  i  teaspoon  of  soda 
(mashed  fine),  J4  teaspoon  salt,  i  saltspoon  nutmeg,  i 
saltspoon  cinnamon,  I  cup  of  chopped  suet,  I  cup  of  boiled 
and  chopped  raisins,  I  cup  of  currants,  %  cup  of  citron, 
i  cup  of  milk  or  cold  water  and  I  cup  of  molasses.  Mix 
in  the  order  given  and  steam  in  a  buttered  mould  3  hours. 
Serve  with  hot  sauce. 

JELLIED  PEACHES. 

Dissolve  Yz  box  of  gelatine  in  3/2  cup  of  cold  water 
until  soft;  add  1  pint  peach  syrup,  1  cup  of  sugar,  the 
rind  and  juice  of  1  lemon,  1  cup  water.  Stir  over  the 
fire  until  it  boils.  Strain  and  put  in  the  peaches,  cut 
in  thin  slices.  Pour  into  a  mould,  previously  wet  with 
cold  water ;  place  on  ice.     Serve  with  soft  custard. 

BREAD  PUDDING. 

Remove  the  crusts  from  4  slices  of  stale  bread  and 
soak  (bread)  in  1  quart  of  milk.  Beat  2  eggs,  add  1-3 
cup  of  sugar,  3/2  teaspoon  of  salt,  34  teaspoon  of  cin- 
namon, mace  or  nutmeg  and  2  tablespoons  of  melted 
butter.  Pour  into  the  bread  mixture,  beat  well;  turn 
into  a  buttered  pudding  dish  and  bake  1  hour.  Serve 
with  hard  sauce.  One-half  cup  of  raisins  may  be  added 
if  liked.     They  should  first  be  cooked  till  soft  and  plump. 

104 


New  England  Cook  Book 


COTTAGE  PUDDING. 
Cream  %  cup  of  butter,  add  i  small  teacup  of  sugar, 
beat  until  creamy,  add  I  egg,  well  beaten.  Mix  4  tea- 
spoons baking  powder,  with  I  pint  of  flour  and  sift  into 
the  first  mixture ;  then  pour  in  1  cup  of  sweet  milk.  Beat 
thoroughly  and  flavor  with  lemon  or  vanilla.  Bake  fa 
of  an  hour  in  a  slow  oven  and  serve  with  a  hot  sauce. 

CHOCOLATE   PUDDING. 

Soak  1  cup  of  stale  bread  crumbs  in  1  pint  of  cold 
milk  1  hour.  Add  the  beaten  yolks  of  2  eggs  and  1 
saltspoon  of  salt.  Put  1  ounce  of  chocolate,  *4  of  a  cup 
of  sugar  and  1  tablespoon  of  water  in  a  stewpan  and 
stir  until  smooth.  Turn  into  the  first  mixture,  add  1 
tablespoon  of  melted  butter  and  l/2  teaspoon  of  vanilla. 
Bake  in  a  slow  oven  about  30  minutes.  When  the  pud- 
ing  is  cold,  spread  on  the  meringue,  made  of  the  beaten 
whites  of  the  eggs  and  2  tablespoons  of  sugar.  Set  the 
pudding  in  the  oven  over  a  pan  of  hot  water  and  bake 
until  light  brown. 

SNOW  PUDDING. 

Dissolve  %  of  a  package  of  gelatine  in  a  little  cold 
water,  and  when  softened  pour  on  1  cup  of  boiling  water ; 
add  1  scant  cup  of  sugar,  34  cup  of  lemon  juice ;  let  boil 
up  once;  strain  and  set  away  to  cool:  When  cold  and 
beginning  to  thicken,  add  the  whites  of  3  eggs,  beaten  stiff, 
and  continue  beating  until  stiff  enough  to  keep  its  shape. 

105 


New  England  Cook  Book 


Put  in  a  melon  mould  and  set  on  ice.     Serve  with  boiled 
custard. 

BOILED  CUSTARD. 

One  quart  of  milk,  4  or  6  eggs,  6  tablespoons  of  sugar, 
1  teaspoon  of  Jamaica  rum,  rose,  almond,  rind  of  1  lemon 
or  cinnamon.  Scald  the  milk.  Beat  the  eggs,  add  the 
sugar  and  the  scalded  milk.  Turn  all  into  the  double 
boiler  and  cook  until  smooth  and  creamy  or  as  soon  as 
the  froth  disappears.  Strain  through  a  hair  sieve  into 
bowl  previously  wet  with  cold  water.  When  cold,  add 
flavoring  and  a  pinch  of  salt. 

BAKED  CUSTARD. 

Beat  6  eggs  very  light,  add  1  quart  of  boiling  milk,  6 
tablespoons  of  sugar,  1  teaspoon  of  almond  essence  and 
grain  of  salt.  Strain  and  fill  cups.  Set  them  in  a  pan 
of  boiling  water,  which  must  nearly  reach  the  tops  of 
cups.  Cover  with  another  pan  and  let  stand  on  the 
range,  where  a  moderate  boil  can  be  obtained.  Watch 
closely  until  the  tops  of  the  custards  are  set.  Remove 
cups,  cover  tops  with  powdered  nutmeg  or  cinnamon  or 
a  bit  of  red  jelly  and  place  in  a  cold  place.  If  more 
convenient,  put  the  pan  with  the  cups  in  the  oven  and 
cook  uncovered  until  a  spoon  comes  out  clear. 

CARAMEL  CUSTARD. 

One  pint  of  brown  sugar  to  3  pints  of  milk.  Melt  the 
sugar  in  a  frying  pan,  being  sure  it  does  not  scorch  in 
the  least.     Pour  it  slowly  into  the  milk,  which  must  be 

106 


New  England  Cook  Book 


boiling;  then  stir  it  steadily.  Beat  7  eggs  well,  pour 
sweetened  milk  over  them  slowly.  Flavor.  Strain  into 
cups  and  place  in  a  pan  of  hot  water  and  bake  either  on 
the  top  of  the  range  or  in  the  oven  from  30  to  40  minutes 
or  till  firm. 

CHOCOLATE  CUSTARD  PUDDING. 

Scald  1  quart  of  milk;  stir  into  it  2^2  ounces  of 
chocolate,  grated,  and  stir  until  smooth.  Take  from  the 
fire  and  pour  over  6  eggs,  well  beaten,  leaving  out  2  of 
the  whites.  Sweeten  and  flavor  with  vanilla ;  it  will  need 
to  be  very  sweet.  Bake  in  a  deep  dish  and  place  in  a 
pan  of  boiling  water  and  cook  like  a  custard,  removing 
from  oven  when  a  knife  blade  comes  out  clear.  Cool  and 
set  on  ice.  Just  before  serving,  beat  the  whites  of  2 
eggs,  add  }i  cup  of  powdered  sugar  and  spread  over  the 
top.     Place  in  the  oven  to  brown  lightly. 

CORN  STARCH  PUDDING. 

Scald  3  cups  of  milk ;  dissolve  j4  cup  of  corn  starch  in 
1  cup  of  cold  milk,  pour  it  slowly  into  the  scalded  milk, 
add  1-3  of  a  cup  of  sugar,  1  saltspoon  of  salt  and  cook 
in  a  double  boiler  for  y±  hour,  stirring  continually  for  first 
5  minutes,  after  that  occasionally.  Beat  the  whites  of 
the  3  eggs  stiff  and  add  to  the  first  mixture  and  remove 
from  the  fire ;  flavor  to  taste.  Pour  into  a  mould,  pre- 
viously wet  with  cold  water.  Turn  out  when  cold  and 
serve  with  a  liquid  sauce  or  preserved  raspberries. 

107 


New  England  Cook  Book 


HARRIET  PUDDING. 

Three  tablespoons  of  tapioca,  soaked  in  cold  water  until 
it  has  swelled  enough ;  then  add  I  quart  of  milk  and  put 
into  a  double  boiler  and  cook  until  tender ;  mix  the  beaten 
yolks  of  3  eggs,  a  teacup  of  sugar,  a  pinch  of  salt  together 
and  add  to  the  boiling  mixture  and  flavor.  Pour  in  one- 
half  into  a  buttered  pudding  dish,  spread  with  the  beaten 
whites  and  pour  over  the  remainder.     Serve  very  cold. 

TAPIOCA  PUDDING. 

Take  4  large  tablespoons  of  tapioca  and  soak  over 
night  in  1  quart  of  milk.  Add  ]/$  cup  of  butter,  the 
beaten  yolks  of  4  eggs,  l/2  cup  of  sugar  and  a  grated 
nutmeg.  Stir  the  whole  well  together  and  bake  in  a 
deep  dish  1  hour.  When  cool,  spread  the  whites,  beaten 
stiff,  on  top  and  place  on  the  oven  grate  until  it  becomes 
a  light  brown. 

BROWN  BETTY. 

Two  and  one-half  cups  of  thinly  sliced  apples,  2  cups 
of  bread  crumbs,  y2  cup  melted  butter,  y2  cup  of  sugar, 
1  teaspoon  of  nutmeg  and  cinnamon  mixed,  ]/2  cup  of 
boiling  water.  Melt  butter,  add  crumbs,  mix  sugar  and 
spices  together.  Put  a  layer  of  crumbs  on  the  bottom 
of  a  pudding  dish,  then  a  layer  of  apples  and  sugar,  then 
y2  the  water,  and  so  alternate,  having  the  crumbs  on  top. 
Cover  and  bake  from  30  to  40  minutes.  Remove  cover 
and  place  on  the  grate  to  brown.  Serve  with  cream  or 
a  pudding  sauce.  Berries  or  peaches  may  be  used  in 
place  of  the  apples. 

108 


New  England  Cook  Book 


INDIAN  MEAL  PUDDING. 

Scald  i  quart  of  milk  and  pour  it  over  £4  of  a  cup  of 
indian  meal.  Cook  in  double  boiler  for  30  minutes ;  add 
2  tablespoons  of  butter,  a  pinch  of  nutmeg,  a  generous 
speck  of  soda,  dissolved  in  2  tablespoons  of  cold  milk 
and  y2  saltspoon  of  salt,  24  of  a  cup  of  N.  O.  molasses, 
1  egg  beaten  well  and  2  cups  of  thinly  sliced  apples. 
Bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven  for  1  hour.  Serve  with 
rum  sauce.  If  Porto  Rico  molasses  is  used,  add  a  des- 
sertspoon of  sugar. 

INDIAN  MEAL  PUDDING  (NO.  2). 

Pour  enough  boiling  water  on  2  cups  of  indian  meal  to 
wet  thoroughly,  add  y2  cup  of  butter,  1  cup  of  sugar,  a 
pinch  of  salt,  2  cups  of  milk,  y2  cup  of  molasses  and  1  cup 
of  seeded  raisins  (if  you  wish)  ;  1  teaspoon  of  cinnamon 
and  a  little  nutmeg.  Bake  3  hours  and  serve  with  cream. 
STRAWBERRY    CUSTARD. 

Scald  1  pint  of  cream ;  pour  it  over  4  eggs,  well  beaten, 
4  tablespoons  of  sugar  and  flavor  with  lemon  rind. 
Cook  in  a  double  boiler  until  smooth  and  thick ;  when  a 
little  cool,  stir  in  y2  ounce  of  gelatine,  dissolved  in  cold 
water,  stirring  briskly  just  before  pouring  into  moulds. 
Select  large,  firm  red  berries,  put  into  a  strainer,  without 
removing  hulls,  and  let  the  cold  water  run  on  them. 
Drain  well;  when  dry,  remove  hulls,  dip  each  one  into 
some  dissolved  gelatine.  Place  a  tin  mould  in  a  pan 
where  it  can  remain  steady;  line  sides  and  bottom  with 
the  strawberries ;  turn  in  the  cold  custard.     Place  on  ice 

109 


New  England  Cook  Book 


for  several  hours.     Serve  on  a  glass  dish,  having  a  border 
of  whipped  cream. 

FLOATING  ISLAND. 

Scald  I  quart  of  milk,  pour  over  the  well-beaten  yolks 
of  6  eggs,  add  6  tablespoons  of  sugar.  Cook  over  boiling 
water  until  smooth  and  creamy.  Flavor  with  I  teaspoon 
of  Jamaica  rum,  rose,  almond  or  vanilla  extract,  and 
pinch  of  salt.  Place  some  slices  of  stale  sponge  cake  or 
lady  fingers  in  a  glass  dish,  moisten  with  a  little  hot  milk. 
Pour  over  the  hot  custard.  Just  before  serving,  beat  the 
whites  of  the  eggs  stiff,  add  3  tablespoons  of  sugar.  Put 
over  the  custard  and  dot  here  and  there  with  a  candied 
cherry  or  a  bit  of  red  jelly. 

BLUEBERRY  PUDDING. 

Wash  and  stew  1  quart  of  blueberries,  1  pint  of  cold 
water,  1  cup  of  sugar  together  or  heat  1  can  of  blue- 
berries and  sweeten  to  taste.  Cut  4  or  5  slices  of  stale 
bread,  butter  and  put  in  a  mould  and  cover  with  the 
stewed  berries.  Steam  1  hour  and  serve  with  a  hot 
liquid  sauce. 

SNOW  CREAM.    (Southern  recipe.) 

Put  some  thin  slices  of  sponge  cake  on  the  bottom  of  a 
dish ;  pour  in  wine  enough  to  soak  it.  Beat  up  the  whites 
°f  3  eSgs  verv  stiff,  add  2  tablespoons  sifted  powdered 
sugar,  a  glass  of  sweet  wine  and  1  pint  of  rich  cream. 
Beat  well  and  pour  over  the  cake. 

WHITE  MOUNTAIN  PUDDING. 

Boil  1  cup  of  rice  with  3  cups  boiling  water  and  y* 
no 


New  England  Cook  Book 


teaspoon  salt  for  5  minutes;  then  steam  until  tender 
(about  y$  hour)  ;  add  2  tablespoons  sugar,  1  saltspoon 
nutmeg.  Remove  and  put  a  layer  of  rice  in  a  buttered 
pudding  dish,  then  a  layer  of  apple  sauce,  flavored  with 
lemon ;  dot  over  with  1  tablespoon  of  butter  and  continue, 
alternating  until  dish  is  filled,  having  the  apple  (and 
butter)  on  top.  Place  in  the  oven  to  become  a  pale 
yellow.  Serve  either  hot  or  cold  with  soft  custard. 
CRACKER  PUDDING. 
Three-quarters  cup  of  sifted  cracker  crumbs;  soak  in 
l/t  cup  of  cold  water  for  5  minutes.  Squeeze.  Beat  the 
yolks  of  3  eggs  very  light ;  add  Y\  cup  of  sugar,  Y\  cup  of 
melted  butter,  a  pinch  of  salt,  1  quart  of  cold  milk  and 

3  ounces  of  grated  chocolate,  dissolved  in  milk  enough  to 
pour.  Stir  all  together.  Bake  in  a  rather  quick  oven 
for  25  minutes.  Set  aside  to  cool  and  cover  with  a 
meringue  made  of  the  whites  of  eggs  beaten  stiff  and  1 
cup  of  powdered  sugar;  put  it  back  in  the  oven  and 
brown  slightly. 

CHOCOLATE  BLANC  MANGE. 
Allow  2  ounces  of  grated  chocolate  to  a  quart  of  sweet 
milk.     Melt  the  chocolate  and  add  the  sweet  milk  scalded ; 
care  must  be  taken  to  have  it  free  from  lumps.     Dissolve 

4  heaping  tablespoons  corn  starch  in  cold  water  to  make 
a  smooth  paste  to  pour  easily,  and  add  to  the  chocolate 
and  cook  for  40  minutes  or  until  the  raw  taste  has  entirely 
disappeared.  Take  from  the  fire,  add  sugar  to  make  very 
sweet  and  flavor  with  vanilla  to  taste,     This  quantity  fills 

in 


New  England  Cook  Book 


a  3  pint  mould.     Serve  with  plain  custard  or  whipped 
cream.     It  should  be  smooth  and  free  from  lumps. 

COCOANUT   PUDDING. 

Three  pints  of  rich  milk  scalded  and  poured  on  3  whole 
eggs  and  yolks  of  3  all  beaten  together;  add  2  cups  of 
sugar  and  1  heaping  tablespoon  of  butter;  flavor  with  1 
teaspoon  of  rum  or  rose  water.  Strain  over  1-3  package 
of  cocoanut.  Pour  into  a  buttered  pudding  dish,  set 
into  a  pan  of  hot  water  and  bake  slowly  about  40  minutes, 
being  careful  not  to  let  it  whey.  Beat  the  whites  of  3 
eggs  with  enough  powdered  sugar  to  make  it  stiff;  add 
a  teaspoon  of  any  flavoring.  Put  on  upper  grate  of  oven 
for  2  minutes.  Remove  and  place  in  a  cold  place  for 
several  hours. 

PLAIN  RICE  PUDDING. 

Take  1-3  cup  of  rice,  put  in  a  saucepan,  cover  with 
cold  water  and  add  1  teaspoon  of  salt.  When  it  boils, 
drain  off  the  water,  rinse  with  cold  water  and  drain  well. 
Put  into  a  stewpan  with  2  tablespoons  of  sugar,  il/2 
pints  of  milk,  and  the  thin  rind  of  1  lemon.  Bring  milk 
to  boiling  point  and  then  let  simmer  for  1  hour,  stirring 
occasionally  with  a  fork.  Add  1  tablespoon  of  butter. 
Remove  any  large  piece  of  rind  and  pour  into  a  buttered 
pudding  dish  and  bake  slowly  in  a  moderate  oven  for  1 
hour. 

POOR  MAN'S  PUDDING. 

A  teacup  2-3  full  of  rice,  3  pints  of  milk,  a  little  salt, 
coffee  cup  of  sugar  and  1  cup  of  raisins.     Bake  3  or  4 

112 


New  England  Cook  Book 


hours,  slowly  at  first.     Serve  hot  or  cold.     This  is  creamy 
and  delicious. 

SUET  PUDDING. 

Two  eggs,  i  cup  of  milk,  y2  cup  of  molasses,  y2  cup  of 
finely  chopped  suet,  y2  teaspoon  of  soda  (mashed  fine), 
about  3^2  cups  of  flour,  i  teaspoon  of  spice  and  I  tea- 
spoon of  salt,  i  cup  of  chopped  raisins.  Stir  it  all  together 
and  steam  for  3  hours.     Serve  with  hot  sauce. 

CRANBERRY  PUDDING. 
Cream  y2  cup  of  butter.  Add  1  cup  of  sugar,  2  eggs 
beaten  light;  alternately  add  1  cup  of  milk  and  3 
cups  of  pastry  flour,  mixed  with  6  teaspoons  of  baking 
powder.  Cut  1  cup  of  cranberry  in  halves,  sprinkle  with 
1  cup  of  sugar  and  add  to  the  first  mixture.  Bake  in 
either  a  shallow  buttered  pan  or  in  gem  pans ;  dredge  the 
top  with  granulated  sugar  and  bake  for  25  minutes. 
Serve  with  lemon  or  foamy  sauce. 

NEW  ENGLAND  PLUM  PUDDING. 

One  pound  of  suet,  chopped  fine,  Y\  pound  of  stale 
bread  crumbs,  ]/\  pound  of  brown  sugar,  the  grated  rind 
of  1  lemon,  ]/\  pound  of  flour,  1  pound  each  of  currants 
and  stoned  raisins,  y2  pound  of  citron  cut  in  strips,  y2 
nutmeg,  1  tablespoon  each  of  mace  and  cinnamon,  5  eggs, 
y2  pound  of  minced  orange,  y2  pint  of  brandy  or  Jamaica 
rum.  Clean,  wash  and  dry  the  currants  and  stone  and 
chop  the  raisins.  Rub  the  dried  fruit  briskly  with  a 
cloth,  to  break  off  any   little  stalks   that  may   remain. 

113 


New  England  Cook  Book 


Carefully  mix  the  dry  ingredients  together.  Beat  the 
eggs  till  frothy,  add  to  them  the  brandy  and  pour  them 
over  the  dry  ingredients,  mixing  and  beating  thoroughly. 
Put  in  a  large,  well-buttered  mould  and  steam  6  hours. 
Serve  with  rum,  hard,  or  brandy  sauce  or  vanilla  ice 
cream. 

ENGLISH  PLUM  PUDDING.     (English  recipe). 

Chop  very  fine  I  pound  of  beet  suet,  mixed  with  34 
cup  of  flour  and  2  ounces  each  of  candied  orange  and 
lemon  peel.  Wash  and  dry  1  pound  of  currants ;  stone 
and  chop  1  pound  of  sultana  raisins  and  1  pound  of 
muscatel  raisins,  also  chop  %  pound  of  citron.  Blanch 
2  ounces  each  of  sweet  and  bitter  almonds.  Grate  3  nut- 
megs and  1  pound  of  stale  bread  crumbs,  weighed  after 
grating,  the  grated  rind  and  juice  of  1  lemon,  24  of  a 
pound  of  flour,  1  pound  of  powdered  sugar,  1  tumbler 
of  any  tart  jelly,  9  eggs,  teaspoon  of  powder-ginger 
root,  1  tumbler  of  Jamaica  rum.  Beat  eggs  very  light, 
add  the  jelly,  then  the  suet,  then  a  little  flour,  alternating 
with  the  other  ingredients,  mixed  together,  and  lastly  add 
the  ginger  root  and  salt.  Beat  thoroughly,  using  the 
hand.  Butter  a  mould  and  steam  for  6  hours.  Serve 
with  wine  sauce. 

On  day  it  is  wanted,  steam  again  for  2  hours.  Turn 
out  on  a  dish,  stick  in  blanched  and  sliced  almonds,  put 
a  sprig  of  holly  in  the  center,  pour  a  small  glass  of  cognac 
over  it  and  light  the  liquor,  and  serve  while  blazing. 

114 


New  England  Cook  Book 


CABINET  PUDDING. 

Butter  a  mould  and  decorate  sides  and  bottom  with 
boiled  seeded  raisins  and  chopped  citron;  then  put  in  a 
layer  of  lady  fingers  or  sponge  cake,  then  some  fruit  and 
lady  fingers  and  so  on  until  the  mould  is  filled.     Pour  I 
pint  of  scalded  milk  on  3  eggs,  well  beaten ;  add  3  table- 
spoons sugar  and  1  saltspoon  of  salt  and  1  teaspoon  of 
flavoring.     Pour  over  the  cake  and  steam  1  hour  for  a 
2  quart  mould.     Serve  with  a  hot  liquid  sauce. 
LEMON  PUDDING. 
Three  pints  of  milk,  beaten  yolks  of  4  eggs,  1  cup  of 
soft  bread  crumbs,  1  cup  of  sugar  or  sweeten  to  taste 
and  2  tablespoons  of  flour;  cook  the  ingredients  as  a 
custard  in  a  double  boiler.     When  thick,  remove  from 
the  fire,  strain  and  set  away  to  cool.     When  cold,  add 
the  juice  and  rind  of  3  lemons,  and  if  not  flavored  enough 
add  more.     Just  before  serving,  add  the  whites  of  the 
eggs  beaten  stiff  with  2  tablespoons  of  powdered  sugar ; 
heap  lightly  on  pudding  dish  and  serve  very  cold.     If 
liked,  it  may  be  placed  on  the  upper  grate  of  a  hot  oven 
to  brown  a  golden  brown. 

RICE  AND  STRAWBERRY   PUDDING. 
Cream  y2  cup  of  butter,  add  il/2  cups  of  sugar,  cream 
again  and  add  3  pints  of  strawberries.    Mix  together  and 
put  in  a  dish  and  cover  with  il/2  cups  of  rice.    Steam  for 
40  minutes  and  serve  with  a  hot  sauce. 
FRUIT  TRIFLE. 
Beat  the  whites  of  4  eggs  till  stiff,  add  3  tablespoons 

H5 


New  England  Cook  Book 


currant  jelly  and  2  tablespoons  of  raspberry  jam, 
beat  very  light  with  the  egg  beater.  Put  some  lady 
fingers  and  macaroons  in  a  dish  and  pile  the  mixture  in 
lightly.  A  poker  may  be  heated  and  passed  over  the  top 
to  brown  slightly,  or  it  may  be  dotted  with  jelly. 
CREME  AU  CAFE. 

Use  3  heaping  tablespoons  of  Java  and  Mocha  coffee 
to  1  quart  of  milk.  Put  the  milk  on  to  boil  and  add  the 
coffee;  let  it  come  to  a  full  boil,  then  place  it  where  it 
will  simmer  for  15  minutes.  Beat  together  6  eggs  and 
add  3  tablespoons  of  sugar ;  bring  the  milk  once  more  to 
a  boil,  being  careful  not  to  burn ;  strain  it  over  the  eggs, 
stirring  vigorously.  Add  more  sugar  if  liked.  Strain 
into  cups  and  bake  like  custard. 

PEACHES  AND  GELATINE. 

Soak  y2  cup  of  gelatine  in  y2  cup  of  cold  water ;  and  1 
dozen  halves  of  peaches ;  sprinkle  with  1  cup  of  sugar ;  let 
stand  for  1  hour.  Then  pour  over  all  1  cup  of  boiling 
water  and  strain.  Put  into  a  saucepan  and  cook  until  the 
gelatine  is  dissolved.  Set  it  away  to  cool  and  when  it 
begins  to  thicken,  add  1  pint  of  rich  cream,  whipped  stiff, 
and  a  pinch  of  soda,  and  stir  into  the  gelatine,  a  spoonful 
at  a  time.  Turn  into  a  mould  wet  with  cold  water  and 
set  away  to  harden.     Serve  with  a  sauce. 

PEACH  CHARLOTTE. 

Line  the  bottom  and  sides  of  a  mould  with  sponge 
drops  or  slices  of  sponge  cake.  Pare  and  cut  into  quar- 
ters ripe  peaches,  sprinkle  sugar  over  them  and  fill  the 

116 


New  England  Cook  Book 


dish  nearly  full.  Then  whip  i  pint  of  sweetened  cream 
and  put  over  the  fruit.  Serve  very  cold  with  or  without 
a  boiled  custard. 

CHARLOTTE  RUSSE. 
One  quart  of  cream,  beaten  light,  I  ounce  of  gelatine 
dissolved  in  1-3  cup  of  cold  water.  The  whites  of  4 
eggs  beaten  stiff.  Put  1  cup  of  sugar  and  1-3  cup  of 
water  together  and  boil  until  it  threads,  then  pour  it  over 
the  dissolved  gelatine.  Beat  the  cream  very  light,  flavor, 
then  add  the  whites  of  the  eggs  and  lastly  the  gelatine. 
Add  more  sweetening  if  necessary.  Line  a  mould  or 
cups  with  lady  fingers  or  sponge  cake ;  fill  in  with  cream 
mixture.     Keep  on  ice  until  ready  to  serve. 

ICE  CREAM. 

Put  1  pint  of  milk  on  to  scald  with  a  i-inch  piece  of 
vanilla  bean.  Beat  2  eggs  (or  yolks  of  4)  very  light, 
add  2  cups  of  sugar,  2  teaspoons  of  corn  starch  and  beat 
well.  Add  to  the  boiling  milk.  Cook  in  a  double  boiler 
at  least  20  minutes  (to  prevent  any  taste  from  corn 
starch),  stirring  often.  Add  a  pinch  of  salt  and,  when 
cool,  add  1  pint  of  cold  milk  and  y2  to  1  cup  of  cream. 
A  larger  quantity  may  be  made  by  using  more  milk  and 
sugar.  Before  freezing,  remove  the  bit  of  pod,  carefully 
scraping  all  the  little  seeds  into  the  custard. 

RASPBERRY  ICE  CREAM. 

Boil  2  quarts  of  raspberries  with  2  cups  of  sugar  for 
10  minutes.     Squeeze  as  much  of  the  pulp  and  juice  as 

117 


New  England  Cook  Book 


possible  through  a  jelly  bag,  and  add  I  pint  of  boiling 
milk  to  it.     Freeze  at  once,  and  when  almost  ready  to 
pack,  stir  in  a  pint  of  stiffly  beaten  cream. 
COFFEE  ICE  CREAM. 

Add  l/±  cup  of  very  strong  black  coffee  to  Philadelphia 
ice  cream,  and  omit  vanilla  flavoring. 

PHILADELPHIA  ICE  CREAM. 

One  pint  of  thick  cream,  mixed  with  3  cups  of  milk; 
add  1  cup  of  sugar,  1  tablespoon  vanilla  and  freeze. 
FRENCH  ICE  CREAM. 

Put  on  to  scald  1  pint  of  milk  in  the  double  boiler,  with 
a  piece  of  vanilla  bean  about  1  inch  length.  Beat  the 
yolks  of  4  eggs  until  the  froth  disappears;  add  ]/2  cup 
of  sugar,  2  slightly  rounding  tablespoons  of  flour  and 
mix  until  very  light ;  pour  on  the  scalded  milk  and  let 
it  cook  in  the  double  boiler  for  15  or  20  minutes,  stirring 
frequently.  Add  a  pinch  of  salt  and  pour  into  a  bowl, 
previously  wet  with  cold  water.  When  cold,  add  3  cups 
of  cream  and  l/2  cup  of  sugar  and  1  tablespoon  Madeira 
wine.  Before  freezing,  remove  the  pit  of  pod,  scraping 
all  the  black  seeds  into  the  custard.  This  makes  a  smooth 
and  delicious  ice  cream,  and  if  the  milk  be  boiling  and 
the  custard  allowed  to  cook  hard  the  full  time,  there  will 
be  no  taste  of  the  flour. 

PINEAPPLE  SHERBET. 

Take  2  or  3  very  ripe  pineapples,  pare  and  grate  them 
into  a  bowl.  Put  the  grated  pineapple  on  a  sieve  and 
press  it  down,  to  get  out  every  drop  of  juice;  add  an 

118 


New  England  Cook  Book 


equal  amount  of  boiling  water  and  sugar  to  make  it  very 
sweet,  as  all  things  when  frozen  have  less  sweetness. 
Strain  when  sugar  is  dissolved  and  freeze  in  the  usual 
manner. 

COFFEE  JELLY. 

Soak  i  box  of  gelatine  in  I  cup  of  cold  water;  when 
soft  add  1^2  cups  of  boiling  water,  I  pint  of  boiling 
coffee  and  2  cups  of  sugar  or  enough  to  make  very  sweet. 
Place  on  stove  to  heat  for  2  minutes ;  strain  into  moulds ; 
put  away  to  harden.  Serve  with  whipped  cream. 
ORANGE  JELLY. 

Soak  y2  box  of  gelatine  in  y^  cup  of  cold  water  until 
soft.  Add  1  cup  of  boiling  water,  juice  of  1  lemon,  1  cup 
of  sugar,  1  pint  of  orange  juice  and  the  rind  of  3.  Place 
over  the  fire  to  boil  up  once,  then  strain  through  a  flannel 
bag ;  turn  into  moulds  and  set  away  to  harden. 
LEMON  JELLY. 

Soak  1  box  of  gelatine  in  1  cupful  of  cold  water  until 
dissolved.  Put  1  small  piece  of  stick  cinnamon,  the 
grated  rind  of  the  lemons  and  1  quart  of  boiling  water 
on  to  simmer  for  15  minutes ;  then  pour  over  the  dissolved 
gelatine,  add  2  cups  of  sugar  and  1  cup  of  lemon  juice. 
Put  over  the  fire  to  boil  up  once.  Strain  through  a 
flannel  bag,  put  into  mould  previously  wet  with  cold  water 
and  set  away  to  harden. 

WINE  JELLY.     (Southern  recipe.) 

Soak  2  ounces  of  isinglass  in  cold  water  for  2  hours. 
Drain  off  that  water  and  add  2  quarts  of  fresh  boiling 

119 


New  England  Cook  Book 


water,  1^4  pounds  of  loaf  sugar,  the  beaten  whites  of  3 
eggs,  the  juice  of  3  lemons  and  the  peel  of  1  and  spice 
to  taste.     Stir  the  whole  together  and  boil  5  minutes ;  add 

1  pint  of  wine.  Strain  through  a  flannel  bag  as  often  as 
may  be  necessary  to  make  it  clear.  Pour  into  moulds 
previously  wet  with  cold  water,  and  set  away  to  cool  for 
several  hours.  The  wine  may  be  omitted  and  have  plain 
jelly. 

WINE  JELLY  (NO.  2). 
To  a  package  of  gelatine  add  1  pint  of  cold  water  and 
let  it  stand  ^  hour;  add  the  juice  of  3  lemons  and  the 
rind  of  1 ;  3  pints  of  boiling  water,  2  cups  of  sugar. 
Set  over  fire  and  boil  once ;  add  1  pint  of  wine  and  strain 
through  a  flannel  bag  into  moulds  and  place  on  ice. 

WINE  JELLY  (NO.  3). 

One  box  of  gelatine,  1  cup  of  cold  water,  3  cups  of 
boiling  water,  1  cup  of  sugar,  2  cups  of  sherry  wine 
and  juice  of  1  lemon.  Soak  the  gelatine  2  hours  in  the 
cold  water.  Pour  the  boiling  water  on  it  and  stir  until 
dissolved;  add  sugar.  When  cold  add  the  lemon  juice 
and  wine.  Strain  through  a  flannel  bag,  turn  into  moulds 
and  place  in  the  ice  chest  for  several  hours. 
CIDER  JELLY. 

Dissolve  1  box  of  gelatine  in  1  cup  of  cold  water  for 

2  hours ;  add  5  cups  of  boiling  cider,  2  cups  of  sugar  and 
place  on  the  stove  to  boil  up  once.  Strain  through  a 
flannel  bag  and  turn  into  moulds.  When  cool,  place  in 
the  refrigerator  for  several  hours. 

120 


New  England  Cook  Book 


FRUIT  JELLY. 

Soak  a  scant  ]/2  box  of  gelatine  in  y2  cup  of  cold  water 
until  soft.  Add  I  pint  of  boiling  water,  i  cup  of  sugar, 
the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  i  lemon.  Place  over  the 
fire  for  I  minute ;  then  add  ]/2  cup  of  Maraschino  wine. 
Strain  through  a  flannel  bag.  Put  a  layer  of  jelly  i  inch 
deep  in  a  mould  and  harden  it.  Decorate  with  angelica, 
cover  with  jelly;  when  hard  put  in  a  smaller  mould  and 
fill  the  space  between  with  jelly ;  when  stiff,  remove  the 
mould  and  fill  the  space  thus  made  with  peaches,  oranges, 
candied  fruit,  bananas  or  mixed  fruits.  Serve  with 
whipped  cream. 

MERINGUES. 

Beat  the  whites  of  6  eggs  very  stiff,  add  I  pound 
finely  powdered  sugar  and  beat  well.  Spread  sheets 
of  note  paper  with  oil,  then  drop  the  meringue  mix- 
ture from  a  teaspoon  with  a  quick  jerk,  and  place 
quite  a  distance  apart.  Place  the  sheets  in  a  cool  oven; 
they  must  cook  through,  but  not  brown  in  the  least  (about 
30  minutes).  When  quite  firm,  let  them  cool  thoroughly, 
then  pack  away  in  tin  boxes;  this  quantity  makes  26. 
When  ready  to  use,  press  in  the  centre  and  fill  in  the 
hollow  with  sweetened  whipped  cream,  flavored  with  a 
little  wine.     The  meringues  may  be  filled  with  bright  jelly. 

CRANBERRY  JELLY  (NO.  1). 

Wash  1  quart  of  berries  thoroughly ;  put  into  a  granite 

121 


New  England  Cook  Book 


saucepan,  sprinkle  over  them  2  cups  of  granulated  sugar 
and  3  tablespoons  cold  water.  Set  over  the  fire  closely 
covered.  When  they  start  to  boil,  place  on  back  of  range 
where  they  will  cook  (without  boiling  over)  for  exactly 
10  minutes,  without  stirring;  shake  the  saucepan  occa- 
sionally. Remove  the  scum  with  a  wooden  or  silver 
spoon  and  turn  into  a  dish  to  cool.  Cooked  in  this  way, 
the  cranberries  are  nearly  whole  but  tender  and  the  syrup 
a  clear  jelly. 

CRANBERRY  JELLY  (NO.  2). 

Wash  1  quart  of  cranberries  thoroughly ;  put  into  a 
granite  stewpan  with  1  cup  of  cold  water  and  2  cups  of 
sugar ;  place  over  a  hot  fire,  stirring  all  the  time  until  it 
boils ;  then  set  back  and  let  simmer  for  8  or  10  minutes. 
If  not  sweet  enough  add  more  sugar.  Mash  through  a 
colander  into  a  dish  and  set  away  to  harden. 

RHUBARB  SAUCE. 

Wash  1  pound  of  rhubarb,  trim  off  the  tops  and  peel  it. 
Cut  into  small  pieces  and  put  into  double  boiler  with  1^2 
cups  of  sugar;  cook  without  stirring  until  the  sugar  is 
dissolved  and  the  fruit  tender.  If  not  sweet  enough,  add 
sugar  to  taste.  Rhubarb  cooked  this  way  will  be  much 
nicer  than  when  cooked  to  a  mush. 

APPLE  SAUCE. 

Pare,  core  and  cut  apples  into  eighths,  put  into  cold 
water  until  ready  to  cook.     Drain  off  the  water  and  put 

122 


New  England  Cook  Book 


into  a  stewpan ;  cover  with  boiling  water  and  cook  until 
soft;  sweeten  to  taste  and  strain  into  a  dish.  Set  away 
to  cool.  (Cook  in  a  granite  or  porcelain  stewpan  and  use 
a  wooden  spoon). 

APPLE  SAUCE  (NO.  2). 

Wipe,  quarter  and  pare  tart  apples  and  put  in  a  dish 
with  enough  cold  water  to  cover.  Turn  into  a  granite 
or  porcelain  stewpan  and  boil  slowly  for  10  minutes, 
stirring  occasionally.  Then  set  it  back  and  cook  slowly 
until  tender ;  sweeten  with  sugar  to  taste.  Strain  through 
a  coarse  strainer  into  a  glass  dish. 

BAKED  APPLES. 

Wipe,  core  and  pare  sour  apples.  Put  them  into  a 
shallow  dish  or  pan,  fill  cavities  with  sugar,  mixed  with  a 
little  cinnamon ;  add  water,  allowing  2  tablespoons  for 
each  apple.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven  till  soft  but  not  broken  ; 
baste  frequently  with  the  syrup. 

GINGER  APPLES. 

Scrape  and  cut  into  slices  %  of  a  pound  of  ginger  root 
and  put  on  to  boil  in  1  quart  of  water  for  half  an  hour. 
Then  add  4  pounds  of  sugar,  the  juice  and  yellow  rind 
of  3  lemons  and  lastly  5  pounds  of  apples,  pared,  cored 
and  cut  in  quarters.  Boil  a  few  of  the  apples  at  a  time 
in  the  syrup  until  they  are  clear.  When  they  are  all 
cooked  in  this  way,  pour  the  syrup  over  them  with  the 
ginger  root  and  lemon  peel.     Let  them  stand  sealed  up 

123 


New  England  Cook  Book 


2  or  3  weeks  before  using  them.     Any  firm,  well  flavored 
fall  apple  will  do  for  this  purpose. 

COMPOTE  OF  APPLES. 

Wipe,  pare,  core  and  quarter  tart  apples  and  put  in 
a  porcelain  dish  in  the  oven  with  just  enough  water  to 
keep  from  burning  (about  a  cupful  for  i  quart  of  apples). 
Add  i  cup  of  sugar,  the  grated  rind  of  half  a  lemon 
and  let  the  apples  cook  for  45  minutes,  covered.  Cool 
a  little  of  the  juice  and,  if  not  jellied,  boil  it  down.  Put 
the  apples  in  the  serving  dish,  add  1  tablespoon  rum  or 
brandy  to  the  juice  and  pour  over  the  apples.  Set  aside 
for  several  hours  until  they  are  thoroughly  set.  Serve 
with  whipped  cream. 

STEWED  PRUNES. 

Wash  carefully  in  several  waters  and  soak  over  night 
in  cold  water.  Drain,  put  them  into  a  stewpan  with 
boiling  water  to  cover.  Boil,  closely  covered,  for  10 
minutes.  Sweeten  to  taste  and  simmer  until  soft,  but 
not  broken.  If  the  flavor  of  lemon  is  liked,  a  little  juice 
may  be  added. 

WINE  SAUCE,     (for  plum  pudding.) 

Cream  34  cup  of  butter,  add  1  cup  of  powdered  sugar, 

1  egg,  well  beaten,  1  saltspoon  of  nutmeg  or  mace.     Wet 

2  tablespoons  of  potato  flour  in  a  little  cold  water  and 
stir  into  i1/*  cups  of  boiling  water,  being  careful  not  to 

124 


New  England  Cook  Book 


have  it  lump ;  boil  10  minutes.     Pour  over  the  other  mix- 
ture, stirring  until  well  mixed ;  then  add  l/2  cup  of  wine. 

WINE  SAUCE  FOR  PLUM  PUDDING  NO.  2. 

Mix  1  cup  sugar  and  2  tablespoons  corn  starch  together, 
add  \l/2  cups  boiling  water  and  boil  for  15  minutes, 
stirring  occasionally;  add  J4  cup  of  butter,  *4  teaspoon 
of  nutmeg  and  y2  cup  of  wine.  Remove  from  the  fire 
and  pour  over  1  egg,  well  beaten,  and  mix  well.  Serve 
hot. 

WINE  SAUCE. 

One  cup  of  butter,  il/2  cups  of  sugar,  1  egg,  1  table- 
spoon flour,  1  gill  of  wine.  Cream  the  butter,  add  sugar 
gradually,  then  beaten  egg.  Wet  the  flour  in  a  little  cold 
water  and  stir  into  1  cup  of  boiling  water;  boil  10  min- 
utes, then  add  the  wine.  Pour  over  the  other  mixture, 
stirring  until  well  mixed. 

LEMON  SAUCE. 
Mix  1  cup  of  sugar  and  a  scant  %  cup  corn  starch  or 
potato  flour  and  the  grated  rind  of  1  lemon  together,  and 
pour  on  1  pint  of  boiling  water.  Cook  10  or  15  minutes, 
stirring  all  the  time ;  add  the  juice  of  1  lemon  and  2  tea- 
spoons of  butter.  If  the  sauce  becomes  too  thick,  add 
more  boiling  water  until  of  the  right  consistency. 

RUM  SAUCE. 
Two  cupfuls  of  sugar,   1  cupful  of  water,  1   inch  of 
stick  cinnamon.     Boil  10  minutes.    Strain;  add  y2  cup  of 
Jamaica  rum. 

125 


New  England  Cook  Book 


CLARET  SAUCE. 
Boil    i    cup   of   sugar   and   %    cup   of   water   and    i 
inch  piece  of  stick  cinnamon  for  10  minutes  ;  strain.    Cool 
and  add  x/2  cup  of  claret. 

CREAMY  SAUCE. 
Cream  %  cup  of  butter,  add  l/2  cup  of  powdered  sugar 
slowly  and  l/2  teaspoon  of  vanilla,  2  tablespoons  cream  or 
wine.     If  it  curdles,  heat  it  to  bring  it  together  again. 

HARD  SAUCE. 

Cream  l/2  cup  of  butter,  add  1  cup  of  sugar  slowly  and 
beat  until  white ;  flavor  with  1  teaspoon  vanilla  and  a 
speck  of  nutmeg.     Keep  on  ice  until  very  hard. 

HARD  SAUCE  (NO.  2). 

Cream  }4  cup  of  butter,  add  6  heaping  teaspoons  (}i 
cup)  of  powdered  sugar  and  beat  until  very  light;  then 
add  the  whites  of  2  eggs  and  beat  again  until  light  and 
frothy.  Flavor  with  vanilla  or  brandy.  Before  serving 
sprinkle  with  nutmeg. 

MOLASSES  SAUCE. 
Mix  together  1  cup  of  molasses,  rind  and  juice  of  1 
lemon,  1  tablespoon  butter  and  a  speck  of  salt.     Boil  10 
minutes. 

FOAMY  SAUCE. 
Beat  the  whites  of  2  eggs  till  foamy ;  add  1  cup  of 
white  sugar ;  beat  well ;  add  }i  cup  of  boiling  milk,  juice 
and  grated   rind  of   1    small   lemon,  or    1    teaspoon  of 
vanilla. 

126 


New  England  Cook  Book 


PUDDING  SAUCE. 
Cream  ^  cup  of  butter,  add  i  cup  of  sugar  and  beat 
well,  then  i  egg,  well  beaten ;  flavor  with  nutmeg,  vanilla 
or  a  little  brandy.     Set  it  in  a  warm  place. 

TAFFY  CANDY. 

Half  fill  a  quart  saucepan  with  coarse  brown  sugar, 
moisten  with  molasses,  add  2  tablespoons  of  butter,  a 
little  lemon  peel  and  juice.  Let  it  boil  and  pour  into 
well  buttered  tins.     It  must  be  thin. 

PEANUT  CANDY. 

Remove  the  skin  from  shelled  peanuts ;  chop  the  nuts 
fine  and  fill  a  pan  to  the  depth  of  I  inch.  Boil  2  pounds 
of  brown  sugar,  1  cup  of  water  and  ^  cup  of  molasses 
until  it  hardens.  Pour  the  hot  candy  on  the  meat.  When 
nearly  cold,  divide  into  squares. 

OLD  FASHIONED  MOLASSES  CANDY. 

Boil  the  molasses  until  a  little  dropped  in  water  will 
stretch ;  but  not  until  it  becomes  brittle.  Pour  on  but- 
tered plates  and  leave  until  it  stiffens.  Then  stretch, 
using  the  tips  of  the  fingers  and  it  will  not  stick  unless 
butter  is  used.  If  the  candy  sticks,  let  it  cool  a  trifle 
more.  The  point  is  to  keep  it  light  and  grainy ;  y2  tea- 
spoon of  soda  is  added  for  each  quart  of  molasses  while 
it  is  boiling;  flavoring  may  be  added  if  desired. 

127 


New  England  Cook  Book 


CREAMED  WALNUTS. 

The  white  of  i  egg,  an  equal  amount  of  cold  water 
and  i  teaspoon  of  vanilla  flavoring.  Beat  thoroughly 
and  stir  in  confectioners'  sugar,  sifted  until  dough  is  soft 
enough  to  mould.  Break  off  pieces  the  size  wanted ;  roll 
them  in  the  palm  of  the  hand  until  smooth.  Put  y2 
walnut  meat  on  each  side,  letting  the  cream  show  slightly 
between  the  meats.  These  may  be  made  by  using  grated 
maple  sugar  instead  of  confectioners'  sugar  and  are 
delicious. 

CHOCOLATE  CREAMS. 

Put  the  white  of  I  egg  in  a  cup  or  glass  and  measure 
an  equal  amount  of  water  or  milk ;  add  I  teaspoon  flavor- 
ing and  beat  thoroughly.  Beat  in  enough  powdered  sugar, 
sifted,  to  make  a  stiff  dough.  Mould  small  pieces  of  the 
mixture  into  the  shape  of  thimbles ;  butter  a  pan,  sprinkle 
a  little  corn  starch  over  it  and  put  the  cream  balls  in  a 
cool  place  to  harden.  Melt  some  chocolate  in  a  double 
boiler,  and  when  the  balls  are  hard,  dip  them  in ;  let  drain 
and  put  on  the  pan  till  dry. 

TAFFY. 
One  quart  of  roasted  peanuts,  shell  and  chopped  or 
pounded  very  fine ;  I  pound  of  brown  sugar,  a  teaspoon 
of  butter,  the  strained  juice  of  a  lemon  or  a  teaspoon 
of  vinegar  and  a  tablespoon  of  water,  or  just  enough  to 
dissolve  the  sugar  when  put  on  the  fire.     Boil  the  sugar, 

128 


New  England  Cook  Book 


lemon,  etc.,  for  20  minutes,  stirring  to  keep  from  burning. 
Then  mix  in  the  nuts,  boil  up  once  and  pour  in  buttered 
pans. 

BUTTER  SCOTCH. 

One  pound  of  brown  sugar,  1  teacup  of  molasses,  y2 
teacup  of  butter,  2  tablespoons  of  vinegar.  Boil  all 
together  about  20  minutes  or  till  it  hardens  in  cold  water. 
Then  pour  thin  on  buttered  tins,  cutting  in  squares  while 
still  warm. 

CARAMEL. 

One  large  cup  of  molasses,  a  teacup  of  sugar,  1  cup 
of  milk,  1  heaping  tablespoon  of  butter,  a  pinch  of 
salt,  x/\  of  a  pound  of  chocolate,  cut  or  scraped  fine.  Boil 
all  together  half  an  hour  or  until  it  hardens  when  dropped 
in  cold  water ;  then  pour  on  buttered  tins  and,  as  it  cools, 
cut  into  small  squares. 

FUDGE. 

Two  cups  of  sugar,  2  squares  chocolate  cut  fine, 
Yz  cup  of  milk,  4  tablespoons  of  butter  or  butter  the  size 
of  an  egg.  Boil  7  minutes  (counting  from  the  time  it 
begins  to  boil).  Flavor  with  vanilla  and  beat  a  few 
minutes  after  taking  off  the  stove.  Pour  into  hot  greased 
pans  and,  after  it  cools,  mark  in  squares. 

129 


CHAPTER  VI. 

Pastry  and  Cake 

HINTS  ABOUT  PASTRY. 

A  marble  slab  is  an  ideal  arrangement  for  rolling  pastry. 
The  following  rules  are  necessary  to  insure  a  perfect  pie : 

First.  Pound  the  pastry  well  until  it  is  filled  with  air 
spaces. 

Second.    Always  put  in  a  cool  place  to  chill. 

Third.  Rub  the  undercrust  with  the  white  of  an  egg 
before  putting  in  the  mixture,  to  prevent  it  from  soaking 
into  the  pastry. 

Fourth.    Place  it  in  a  hot  oven. 

Fifth.  Place  on  the  floor  of  the  oven,  later  put  on  top 
to  brown. 

The  secret  of  good  pastry  is  to  have  it  rich,  without 
being  greasy ;  and  flaky,  without  being  brittle. 

Pastry  flour  is  a  necessity  and  should  be  sifted  before 
using. 

Work  it  as  quickly  and  lightly  as  possible. 

%  PASTRY. 

Three  cups  of  flour,  }%  cup  of  butter,  ^  cup  lard  or 
drippings,  I  teaspoon  of  baking  powder  and  a  pinch  of 
salt.  Sift  flour,  salt  and  baking  powder  together;  rub  in 
butter  and  lard ;  mix  quite  stiff  with  cold  water.  Pat 
and  roll  out  on  a  floured  board,  rolling  from  you. 

130 


New  England  Cook  Book 


PASTRY  FOR  ONE  PIE. 

Sift  twice  I  heaping  cup  of  pastry  flour,  Ya  teaspoon 
of  salt,  J4  teaspoon  of  baking  powder ;  rub  in  Ya  cup  of 
butter  and  Ya  cup  of  lard  until  it  looks  mealy.  Add  about 
Ya  cup  of  cold  water  (using  more  if  needed).  Mix  with 
a  knife,  then  beat  and  turn  out  on  a  floured  board  and 
pat  with  rolling  pin  until  light  and  smooth.  Divide  in  2 
parts  and  roll  to  fit  the  plate. 

MOCK  CHERRY  PIE. 

One  cup  cranberries  chopped,  y*  cup  of  raisins 
chopped,  Yz  cup  of  water,  I  cup  of  sugar,  I  teaspoon  of 
vanilla,  2  tablespoons  of  flour;  Ya  cup  of  currants  may 
be  added  if  liked.     Bake  with  two  crusts. 

MOCK  MINCE  PIE. 
Three-quarters  cup  of  rolled  crackers,  3  pints  of 
chopped  apples,  Yz  pound  of  raisins,  y2  pound  of  cur- 
rants, ]/\  pound  of  citron,  Y\  cup  of' melted  butter;  3  eggs, 
beaten  well,  Y2  cup  of  molasses,  ^2  cup  of  cider,  2  table- 
spoons of  whiskey,  1  teaspoon  each  of  cloves,  allspice, 
nutmeg,  cinnamon  and  mace,  1  saltspoon  of  salt.  Bake 
as  mock  cherry. 

COLONIAL  PUMPKIN  PIE. 

Cut  up  a  dark  yellow  pumpkin  into  strips  and  steam 
until  soft.  When  done  strain  through  a  sieve.  To  2 
quarts  of  pumpkin  add  2  quarts  of  milk  and  12  eggs,  well 
beaten,  and  a  grating  of  nutmeg.     Fill  pie  plates  with 

131 


New  England  Cook  Book 


undercrust  and  fill  with  pumpkin,  scalding  hot.  Bake  I 
hour  if  pies  are  deep.  (The  more  eggs  used,  the  less  time 
it  takes  to  bake.) 

PUMPKIN  PIE  (NO.  2). 
Two  cups  strained  pumpkin,  add  1  pint  hot  milk,  1 
saltspoon  of  nutmeg  and  cinnamon,  y2  teaspoon  salt,  y2 
cup  of  sugar.  Cool  slightly;  add  2  eggs,  well  beaten,  1 
tablespoon  of  whiskey.  Line  a  plate  with  paste  and  fill 
with  pumpkin.     Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  Y\  of  an  hour. 

LEMON  PIE. 

Juice  of  2  lemons,  the  yolks  of  4  eggs,  9  large 
spoonfuls  of  sugar,  2-3  of  a  tumbler  of  milk,  a  pinch  of 
salt.  After  the  pies  are  cool,  make  a  meringue  of  the 
beaten  whites  and  add  4  tablespoons  of  sugar. 

SQUASH  PIE. 

Take  1  quart  of  steamed  and  sifted  squash;  add  3  eggs, 
well  beaten,  and  1  quart  of  milk,  1  tablespoon  flour  or 
sifted  cracker  crumbs,  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  1  tablespoon 
molasses  and  sugar  to  taste.  Flavor  with  nutmeg,  ginger 
or  allspice.     Fill  pie  plates  with  crust  and  bake  1  hour. 

CUSTARD  PIE. 

Beat  3  eggs  slightly,  add  3  tablespoons  of  sugar,  a  pinch 
of  salt,  1  saltspoon  of  mace.  Pour  oh  3  cups  of  hot  milk. 
Line  a  deep  pie  plate  with  paste  and  strain  the  custard 

132 


New  England  Cook  Book 


into  it.     Bake  slowly,  and  when  a  knife  blade  comes  out 
clean,  it  is  done. 

BRISTOL  PIE 
Take  some  sweet,  mellow  apples,  pare  and  grate.  To 
a  pint  of  the  grated  pulp  add  I  pint  of  milk,  2  eggs,  well 
beaten,  2  tablespoons  butter,  melted,  the  grated  peel  of  a 
lemon  and  ^  wineglass  of  brandy.  Sweeten  to  taste 
with  brown  sugar.  Bake  pies  in  a  deep  plate  without 
upper  crust.  If  preferred  the  apples  may  be  stewed  as 
for  apple  sauce  and  the  other  ingredients  added. 

APPLE  PIE. 
Pare  4  or  5  apples,  core  and  cut  into  quarters  and  put 
into  stewpan,  with  water  to  cover ;  add  1  cup  of  sugar 
and  a  little  nutmeg;  when  soft,  remove  and  strain  through 
a  coarse  strainer.  When  cold,  fill  pie  plate,  previously 
lined  with  plain  paste ;  dot  over  with  1  teaspoon  butter ; 
wet  the  edges,  cover,  with  paste  rolled  out  very  thin.  Bake 
in  a  steady  moderate  oven  1  hour. 

HUCKLEBERY  OR  BLUEBERRY  PIE. 

Pick  over  the  berries  and  wash.  Use  about  3  cups 
fruit  for  each  pie.  Heap  fruit  in  center.  Sprinkle  with 
1  teaspoon  flour  and  add  sugar  to  taste;  dot  over  with 
bits  of  butter  and  bake  in  a  deep  pie  plate  with  2  crusts 
for  about  45  minutes. 

DRIED  APPLE  OR  PEACH  PIE. 

Wash  and  soak  in  lukewarm  water  over  night ;  when 

133 


New  England  Cook  Book 


needed  drain  off  the  water;  line  a  deep  pie  plate  with 
paste,  wet  the  edge  and  put  on  a  rim;  fill  with  fruit, 
sprinkle  with  sugar  and  a  grating  of  nutmeg;  dot  over 
with  i  heaping  tablespoon  butter;  cover  with  crust  and 
bake  until  apples  are  soft. 


ELDERBERRY  PIE. 

Line  a  plate  with  pastry  and  fill  with  ripe  elderberries ; 
sprinkle  with  a  generous  1-3  cup  of  white  sugar,  add 
2  tablespoons  of  vinegar,  and  then  sift  over  1  rounding 
tablespoon  of  flour  or  corn  starch  and  dot  with  1  table- 
spoon of  butter.  Cover  with  an  upper  crust  of  pastry 
with  openings  in  centre  for  steam  to  escape,  and  bake  in 
a  moderate  oven  about  1  hour. 


RHUBARB  PIE. 

Peel  the  rhubarb,  cut  into  small  pieces  and  put  on  to 
cook  in  a  stewpan,  with  sugar  to  taste ;  flavor  with  mace 
and  1  tablespoon  butter.  Set  away  to  cool.  Line  pie 
plate  with  plain  paste;  wet  rim;  add  rhubarb;  lay  paste 
on  to  form  diamond  shape  spaces ;  put  a  rim  around  and 
moisten  with  beaten  egg  or  use  an  upper  crust  instead. 

134 


New  England  Cook  Book 


PUMPKIN  PIE  (NO.  3). 

Mix  together  2  coffeecups  of  steamed  and  strained 
pumpkin,  ^  CUP  of  butter,  6  beaten  eggs,  I  cup  of  sugar, 
i  teaspoon  of  nutmeg  or  mace,  y^  saltspoon  of  salt.  Pour 
2  cups  of  scalded  milk  over  1-3  cup  of  finely  sifted 
cracker  crumbs ;  add  to  the  first  mixture ;  then  add  ^4  cup 
of  whiskey  and  beat  thoroughly.  Line  a  plate  with  paste 
and  fill  with  pumpkin.     Bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 


MINCE  MEAT. 

Four  pounds  of  lean  meat,  2  pounds  of  suet,  8  pounds 
of  apples,  4  pounds  of  sugar,  2  pounds  of  the  best  raisins 
and  other  fruit  as  you  wish  (currants  and  citron),  1  pint 
of  molasses,  1  quart  of  cider,  1  teacup  of  brandy,  4  nut- 
megs, 1  tablespoon  each  of  allspice,  mace,  cinnamon  and 
cloves.  Put  meat  and  suet  in  pot  and  cover  with  boiling 
water  and  cook  suet  only  one-half  the  time  (about  I 
hour).  Chop  the  meat  and  suet  fine;  add  the  chopped 
apples,  the  raisins  stoned  and  cut,  also  the  other  fruit,  the 
sugar,  molasses,  cider,  salt  and  spices.  Simmer  for  2 
hours.     When  cool,  add  the  brandy. 

MINCE  MEAT  (Creole  recipe). 

Boil  1  fresh  tongue  (about  7  pounds),  skin  and  mince 
fine.    Chfljjjjfe  pounds  of  fresh  beef  suet,  freeing  it  thor- 

135 


New  England  Cook  Book 


oughly  from  all  fibre;  stone  4  pounds  of  raisins; 
wash  and  dry  the  same  quantity  of  currants  and  1  pound 
of  citron,  cut  very  fine,  1  pound  of  brown  sugar,  a 
cup  of  Porto  Rico  molasses,  1  heaping  tablespoon  each 
of  ground  cinnamon,  mace  and  allspice,  l/2  tablespoon  of 
cloves,  a  grated  nutmeg  and  2  cups  of  cider.  Put  all  the 
ingredients  into  a  large  stone  crock  and  set  in  a  moderate 
oven  for  1%  hours,  stirring  several  times.  Then  take 
from  oven  and  pour  in  enough  of  either  brandy  or 
whiskey  (or,  if  preferred,  Jamaica  rum  may  be  added) 
to  make  the  mixture  very  soft ;  if  on  hand,  a  cup  of  pre- 
served quinces,  will  add  greatly;  mix  vigorously  with 
a  wooden  spoon.  Cover  the  crock  closely  and  set  away 
to  mature  from  2  to  6  weeks.  If  it  dries  out  during  that 
period,  add  a  little  liquor  from  time  to  time.  When  ready 
to  make  into  pies,  add  apples,  allowing  3  juicy  apples  to 
each  pint  of  mince  meat. 

HINTS   ON    CAKE    MAKING. 

These  are  some  of  the  essentials  necessary — good 
materials,  fresh  eggs,  best  butter,  pastry  flour,  pow- 
dered, fine  granulated  or  light  brown  sugar.  In  winter, 
the  eggs  should  not  be  cold,  but  put  in  a  warm  place ;  in 
summer,  chill  them  with  the  coldest  water.  The  flour, 
heated,  either  by  placing  where  the  sun  will  shine  on  it 
or  putting  it  in  a  bag  and  placing  it  in  the  oven  where  it 
will  heat  through,  then  sift  twice. 

Sugar  should  be  sifted  and  dried,  but  not  made  hot. 
136 


New  England  Cook  Book 


Do  not  make  the  batter  too  stiff. 

Make  as  soon  after  breakfast  as  possible  (unless  a 
gas  oven  be  used),  as  then  the  fire  is  at  its  best. 

Use  the  hand  for  final  beating. 

In  beating  eggs,  do  not  leave  off  when  the  eggs  become 
foamy,  as  they  are  then  only  beginning  to  be  light,  but 
continue  beating  until  the  froth  and  bubbles  have  dis- 
appeared and  the  surface  is  smooth. 

The  secret  of  making  good  cake  is  to  beat  it  thoroughly 
after  all  ingredients  have  been  put  in. 

In  all  sorts  of  sponge  cake  mixture  or  cakes  made 
without  butter,  flour  must  always  go  in  last,  and 
be  folded  in  slowly  and  lightly,  for  if  the  flour  is  stirred 
in  hard,  the  cake  will  be  tough  and  leathery.  Sponge  cake 
when  cut  should  look  coarse  grained  and  rough. 

In  baking,  cake  may  be  moved  during  the  first  quarter, 
but  not  afterwards. 

Sprinkle  a  little  flour  on  a  piece  of  white  paper  and  lay 
it  on  the  oven  floor.  If  the  flour  browns  without  burning 
in  5  minutes  the  oven  is  right  for  all  cake  and  bread, 
excepting  sponge  and  pound  cake,  when  it  should  turn 
yellow. 

To  bake  cake,  divide  the  time  into  quarters.  In  the 
first  quarter,  the  cake  begins  to  rise  ;  in  the  second  quarter, 
it  continues  rising  and  begins  to  brown;  in  the  third,  it 
continues  to  brown,  and  in  the  last  quarter,  it  finishes 
browning  and  shrinks  from  the  pan.       To  remove  the 

137 


New  England  Cook  Book 


cake,  stand  the  pan  on  its  side,  so  as  to  let  the  weight  of 
the  cake  help  it  out. 

Never  slam  the  oven  door,  open  and  close  it  gently. 

To  slice  fruit  cake  without  crumbling,  use  a  very  sharp, 
thin  knife  blade,  cutting  when  needed  into  thick  slices,  to 
be  afterwards  cut  into  desired  size. 

CREAM  CAKE. 
Two  cups  water,  I  cup  butter,  2  cups  flour,  6  eggs. 
Boil  butter  and  water  together  and  stir  in  the  flour  dry ; 
when  it  boils  remove  from  the  fire  to  cool,  then  add  the 
eggs  without  beating.  When  well  mixed,  drop  by  table- 
spoons on  a  buttered  pan  and  bake  in  oven  that  is  mod- 
erately hot  for  25  minutes.  When  cool,  split  and  fill 
with  cream  and  sprinkle  powdered  sugar  on  top. 

FILLING  FOR  CREAM   CAKES. 

To  1  pint  of  scalded  milk,  stir  in  2  tablespoons  of  corn 
starch,  dissolved  in  2  tablespoons  of  cold  water,  and  cook 
3  minutes.  Beat  2  eggs,  add  1  cup  of  sugar,  1  heaping 
tablespoon  of  butter  and  add  to  the  first  mixture ;  stir 
and  cook  15  minutes  in  double  boiler.     Flavor. 

CREAM  CAKE  (NO.  2). 
One  and  one-half  cups   sugar,   5   eggs,  2  cups  flour, 
2  teaspoons  baking  powder.     Beat  yolks  of  eggs  very 
light ;  add  sugar,  then  the  flour,  to  which  has  been  added 
the  baking  powder,  add  flavoring. 

138 


New  England  Cook  Book 


CREAM  FILLING. 

Scald  i  pint  of  milk.  Beat  2  eggs  very  light,  add  ^ 
cup  of  sugar,  2  heaping  teaspoons  flour  and  beat  well 
until  smooth.  Pour  the  scalded  milk  over  the  mixture ; 
return  to  the  double  boiler  and  stir  all  the  time  till  it 
thickens.  Put  it  to  cool;  then  flavor  with  vanilla  or 
lemon. 

CREAM  CAKES  (NO.  3). 
Beat  yolks  of  4  eggs,  add  1  cup  of  sugar,  then  the 
well-beaten  whites,  and  lastly  I  cup  of  flour,  sifted,  with 
a  pinch  of  salt  and  1  teaspoon  of  vanilla.     Bake  in  round, 
shallow  pans. 

FILLING. 

One  pint  of  milk,  scalded,  2  well-beaten  eggs,  2  heaping 
teaspoons  of  flour,  mixed  with  1  cup  of  sugar ;  add  this 
to  the  egg  and  stir  all  together.  Add  mixture  to  the  milk 
and  stir  all  the  time  until  it  thickens.  When  cool,  flavor 
with  lemon,  vanilla  or  almond. 

SPONGE  CAKE. 

Six  eggs,  2  cups  of  sugar,  2  cups  of  flour  and  1  full 
tablespoon  of  cold  water,  1  teaspoon  flavoring.  Beat  the 
yolks  of  the  eggs  and  water  together  till  light  colored, 
then  add  the  sugar  and  flavoring;  cut  in  the  well-beaten 
whites  and  lastly  fold  in  the  flour  and  put  it  at  once  into 
a  moderate  oven  to  bake  for  about  40  minutes. 

139 


New  England  Cook  Book 


POUND  CAKE. 
Cream  i  cup  of  butter,  add  2  cups  of  sugar,  then  the 
yolks  of  six  eggs,  well  beaten,  1  saltspoon  of  mace ;  add 
2  cups  of  flour  and  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  mixed 
together,  and  lastly  the  whites  beaten  stiff  and  dry.  Bake 
in  a  paper-lined  cake  pan  in  a  moderately  hot  oven  for  40 
minutes. 

POUND  CAKE.      (No.  2.) 

One  pound  of  butter,  1  pound  of  sugar,  1  pound  of 
flour,  12  eggs,  y2  teaspoon  mace,  mixed  with  grated  rind 
of  2  oranges  and  2  tablespoons  each  of  brandy  and 
wine  or  the  juice  of  y2  orange.  Cream  the  butter,  add 
the  sugar  slowly,  beating  well ;  then  the  well-beaten  yolks 
of  the  eggs  and  flour,  alternately;  the  mace  and  flavor- 
ing, then  the  whites  beaten  stiff.  Beat  vigorously  for  5 
minutes.     Bake  in  a  slow  oven  for  \x/z  hours. 

SPONGE  CAKE. 

Beat  yolks  of  4  eggs  until  lemon  color,  add  1  cup  of 
sugar,  then  the  well-beaten  whites  and  1  cup  of  flour,  a 
pinch  of  salt,  1  teaspoon  vanilla.  Beat  well.  Bake  in 
round  tins. 

LIGHTNING  CAKE. 

Sift  together  1  cup  of  sugar,  1%  cups  of  flour,  2  tea- 
spoons baking  powder.  Into  a  measuring  cup  put  %  cup 
melted  butter ;  drop  in  2  eggs,  without  beating,  and  fill 
cup  with  milk.     Add  this  to  dry  ingredients  and  beat  well ; 

140 


New  England  Cook  Book 


add  y2  teaspoon  of  vanilla.    Bake  either  in  layer  or  little 
cakes.     Frost. 

STRAWBERRY  SPONGE  CAKE. 

Beat  yolks  of  3  eggs  until  light;  add  I  cup  of  sugar 
gradually,  beating  until  creamy;  then  3  tablespoons 
of  hot  water  and  I  teaspoon  of  vanilla.  Cut  and  fold  in 
1  cup  of  flour,  mixed  with  2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder. 
Bake  in  a  low  tube  pan  from  25  to  40  minutes,  according 
to  size  of  pan.  Cool ;  frost  top  and  sides  with  boiled 
frosting  and  decorate  with  large  strawberries.  Just  before 
serving,  fill  hollow  with  whipped  cream,  sweetened  and 
flavored  with  strawberry  juice.  This  should  be  eaten  the 
day  it  is  made. 

STRAWBERRY  SPONGE  CAKE.  (No.  2). 
Beat  yolks  of  3  eggs  until  light ;  add  1  cup  of  sugar 
gradually,  beating  until  creamy ;  then  3  tablespoons 
of  hot  water  and  1  tablespoon  of  vinegar.  Mix  and  sift 
1  cup  of  flour  with  2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  a  pinch 
of  salt  and  nutmeg,  and  add  to  the  first  mixture ;  beat 
until  smooth.  Fold  in  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  beaten  stiff 
and  dry.  Turn  into  two  greased  pans  and  bake  in 
a  moderately  quick  oven  20  minutes.  Cool.  Cut  the 
strawberries  in  halves,  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  let  stand 
covered  for  y2  hour.  Put  the  strawberries  between  and 
on  top  of  cake,  and  dot  over  with  a  meringue  made  of 
the  whites  of  2  eggs  beaten  stiff  and  2  tablespoons  of 
powdered  sugar  and  y2  teaspoon  of  vanilla.     Put  in  a 

141 


New  England  Cook  Book 


slow  oven  for  2  minutes  to  dry.    Whipped  cream  may  be 
used  in  place  of  meringue. 

STRAWBERRY    SHORTCAKE. 

Cream  y2  cup  of  butter,  add  1  cup  of  sugar,  1  egg, 
beaten  light ;  mix  2  heaping  cups  of  flour  and  4  teaspoons 
baking  powder  together,  and  add  alternately  with  1 
cup  of  milk  to  the  first  mixture,  and  flavor  with  1  tea- 
spoon vanilla.  Bake  in  layer  pans  in  a  moderate  oven 
y2  hour.  Wash  and  hull  some  strawberries,  mash  and 
sweeten  to  taste,  and  spread  between  layers.  Frost  top 
with  plain  frosting  and  cover  with  whole  strawberries ; 
sprinkle  with  sugar. 

GOLD  CAKE. 

Cream  y2  cup  butter,  add  1^2  cups  of  sugar,  the  beaten 
yolks  of  6  eggs,  y2  teaspoon  of  flavoring;  \y2  cups  flour, 
y2  cup  of  corn  starch,  2  teaspoons  of  cream  of  tartar, 
y2  teaspoon  of  soda,  sifted  together,  and  1  cup  of  milk. 
Bake  in  a  loaf  pan  in  a  moderate  oven. 

DROP  CAKES. 

Cream  y2  cup  of  butter,  add  1  cup  of  sugar,  1  egg 
beaten  very  light,  1  cup  of  sour  milk  or  cream,  y2  tea- 
spoon of  soda  or  enough  more  to  make  the  milk  taste 
sweet,  1  teaspoon  of  flavoring.  Flour  enough  to  make  a 
stiff  batter  (about  2^  cups).  Bake  on  a  buttered  sheet 
10  or  15  minutes,     Caraway  seeds  may  be  added. 

142 


New  England  Cook  Book 


ORANGE  CAKE. 

Two  cups  sugar,  yolks  of  5  eggs,  %  cup  water,  2  cups 
of  flour,  4  teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  whites  of  4  eggs, 
rind  and  juice  of  1  orange.  Mix  in  the  order  given  and 
bake  in  round  tins;  ft  teaspoon  soda  and  1  rounding  tea- 
spoon of  cream  of  tartar  may  be  used  in  place  of  baking 
powder. 

FILLING. 
White  of  1  egg,  juice  and  rind  of  I  orange,  made  stiff 
with  sugar.     Spread  between  cakes  and  frost  with  plain 
frosting,  flavored  with  orange  juice. 

LADY  BALTIMORE  CAKE.     (Charleston,  S.  C,  recipe.) 

Cream  1  cup  of  butter,  add  gradually  2  cups  sugar 
and  beaten  yolks  of  7  eggs;  beat  well.  Sift  together 
ift.  cups  of  flour  and  3  generous  teaspoons  baking  pow- 
der; add  to  the  first  mixture,  alternately  with  1  cup  of 
milk.  Beat  thoroughly  for  a  few  minutes,  add  I  teaspoon 
of  almond  flavoring,  then  fold  in  the  well-beaten  whites 
of  eggs.     Bake  in  3  layer  cake  pans. 

FILLING  AND  FROSTING. 
Dissolve  3  cups  of  granulated  sugar  in  1  cup  of  boiling 
water  and  cook  until  the  syrup  threads,  about  3  inches  in 
length.  Then  pour  on  in  a  fine  stream  over  the  whites 
of  3  eggs,  beaten  stiff,  and  beat  constantly.  To  this 
frosting  add  1  cup  of  raisins,  chopped  fine,  1  cup  of 
chopped  nut  meats  (pecans  preferred),  and  1  teaspoon 
of  vanilla.  .        > 

H3 


New  England  Cook  Book 


NUT  CAKE. 
Cream  I  cup  of  butter,  add  2  cups  of  sugar  and  beat 
well.  Beat  3  large  eggs  (yolks  and  whites  separately) 
and  add  yolks  to  first  mixture.  Sift  3  cups  of  flour  and 
4  teaspoons  of  baking  powder  together,  add  alter- 
nately, with  24  cup  of  milk  to  the  first  mixture,  and  beat 
well.  Cut  in  the  beaten  whites,  add  1  teaspoon  flavor- 
ing and  1  cup  of  any  kind  of  nuts,  broken  into  pieces,  and 
%  teaspoon  salt.  Bake  about  40  minutes.  Frost  with  a 
boiled  frosting  and  decorate  with  nuts. 

QUEEN  CAKE. 

Beat  1  cup  of  butter  to  a  cream,  add  2  cups  of  sugar 
gradually,  beating  it  all  the  time.  Sift  and  mix  together 
2y2  cups  of  flour,  ]/2  cup  of  corn  starch,  4  teaspoons  of 
baking  powder;  add  I  cup  of  milk  alternately  with  the 
flour  to  the  first  mixture.  Beat  the  whites  of  8  eggs  to  a 
very  stiff  froth,  and  add  them  slowly ;  when  well  mixed 
add  1  teaspoon  of  vanilla  and  a  tablespoon  of  wine. 
Bake  in  two  layers  in  cake  tins  which  are  lined  with 
buttered  paper.  Bake  in  moderately  hot  oven  for  15 
minutes.  This  may  be  cut  in  squares  and  frosted  with 
Caramel  Icing  or  Mocha  Filling. 

CHOCOLATE  CAKE. 

Cream  1  cup  of  butter,  add  gradually  2  cups  of  sugar, 
the  beaten  yolks  of  5  eggs.  Mix  3  cups  of  flour  with  4 
teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  add   1   scant  cup  of  milk 

144 


New  England  Cook  Book 


alternately  with  the  flour.  Cut  in  the  whites  of  3  eggs, 
beaten  stiff  and  dry.  Add  1  teaspoon  vanilla.  Bake  in 
tins  and  frost  with  Chocolate  Frosting. 

CHOCOLATE  CAKE.     (No.  2.) 

Cream  y2  cup  of  butter,  add  1  cup  sugar  and  2  eggs, 
well  beaten;  mix  2  cups  of  flour  and  3  teaspoons  of 
baking  powder  together,  and  add  alternately  to  the  first 
mixture  with  /2  cup  of  milk,  flavor  with  1  teaspoon 
vanilla  and  add  ]/A  square  of  chocolate,  melted.  Bake  in 
round  tins  and  frost  with  white  frosting. 

ROBERT  E.  LEE  CAKE. 

Nine  eggs,  2  cups  sugar,  2  cups  flour,  sifted  twice, 
with  a  scant  ]/2  teaspoon  of  baking  powder.  Beat  the 
yolks  very  light,  add  the  sugar  and  beat  well;  then  add 
the  whites,  beaten  stiff,  and  lastly  the  flour  and  juice  of 
1  lemon.     Bake  in  jelly  cake  tins  about  15  minutes. 

When  cold,  spread  each  layer  with  the  following  filling: 
Strain  the  grated  rind  and  juice  of  2  oranges  and  1  lemon 
through  a  fine  sieve,  into  a  pound  of  pulverized  sugar. 
Add  to  this  1  grated  cocoanut  and  white  of  1  egg,  beaten 
light.  This  recipe  makes  2  cakes  of  3  layers  each,  and  is 
delicious. 

ANGEL  CAKE. 

Whites  of  11  eggs,  i1/*  cups  granulated  sugar,  1  cup  of 
flour,  1  level  teaspoon  of  cream  of  tartar.  Beat  eggs 
until    they    are    stiff.     Then  add  sugar  and  beat;  add 

145 


New  England  Cook  Book 


Yz  teaspoon  of  flavoring.  Sift  flour  and  cream  of  tartar 
4  times  and  add  last.  Bake  i  hour  in  a  slow  oven ;  when 
it  begins  to  brown,  cover  with  a  buttered  paper.  Do 
not  move  whilst  in  the  oven.  Put  a  pinch  of  salt  in  the 
eggs  before  beating. 

CUP  CAKE. 

Cream  i  cup  of  butter  and  2  cups  of  sugar  together 
and  beat  well ;  add  4  eggs  well  beaten,  then  1  cup  of  milk 
and  3  cups  of  flour,  sifted  and  mixed  with  3  slightly 
rounding  teaspoons  of  baking  powder ;  flavor  with  nut- 
meg. One  pound  of  currants  may  be  added  if  liked.  Bake 
in  a  moderately  hot  oven  and  frost  with  chocolate  frost- 
ing.    This  may  be  baken  in  individual  tins. 

SPANISH  CAKE. 

Cream  1  cup  of  butter,  add  slowly  2  cups  sugar  and  beat 
well,  then  add  the  beaten  yolks  of  4  eggs ;  mix  4  teaspoons 
baking  powder  with  3  cups  of  flour,  1  teaspoon  of 
nutmeg  and  1  tablespoon  grated  orange  rind ;  add  this 
alternately  to  the  first  mixture  with  I  cup  of  milk,  then 
the  beaten  whites  and  bake  in  sheets  and  cover  with 
caramel  frosting. 

SPICE  CAKE. 

One  egg,  2-3  cup  of  molasses,  2-3  cup  sugar,  y2  cup 

of  melted  butter,  1  cup  of  milk,  2]/2  cups  flour,  1  heaping 

teaspoon  soda,  1  even  teaspoon  of  cream  of  tartar,  y2 

teaspoon  each  of  cloves,  allspice,  nutmeg,  ginger,  cin- 

146 


New  England  Cook  Book 


namon  and  mace,  2  tablespoons  of  vinegar.  Mix  in  the 
order  given  and  bake  either  in  round  pan  or  gem  pans  for 
20  minutes. 

DAYTON  CAKE. 

Cream  i  cup  of  butter,  add  2  cups  of  sugar,  yolks  of 
3'  large  eggs,  3  cups  of  flour  mixed  with  4  teaspoons  of 
baking  powder,  2-3  cup  of  milk,  1  teaspoon  of  lemon 
flavoring,  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  stiff.  Bake  in  a 
moderate  oven. 

SILVER  CAKE. 

One-half  cup  of  butter,  i]/2  cups  of  sugar,  \l/2  cups 
flour,  l/2  cup  of  corn  starch  2  (round)  teaspoons  cream 
of  tartar,  l/2  teaspoon  soda,  l/2  cup  milk,  whites  of  6 
eggs  and  l/2  teaspoon  of  almond  or  rose  flavoring.  Mix 
in  the  order  given,  putting  soda  and  cream  of  tartar  in 
flour  and  adding  milk  and  flour  alternately,  lastly  adding 
whites  beaten  stiff  aand  flavoring.  Bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  until  cake  shrinks  from  the  pan. 

NEOPOLITAN  CAKE. 

Cream  1  cup  of  butter,  add  2  cups  of  sugar,  yolks  of 
3  eggs  beaten  light,  1  cup  of  milk,  3  cups  of  flour,  sifted 
with  4  teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  and  the  whites  of  3 
eggs.  Divide  the  dough  into  4  equal  parts.  Have  first 
part  color  of  dough ;  color  second  part  with  pistachio ; 
third  with  melted  chocolate ;  fourth  with  pink  coloring. 
Use  extract  of  almond  for  first  and  second  parts,  vanilla 

147 


New  England  Cook  Book 


for  chocolate  part,  rose  for  pink  part.  When  all  are 
baked,  lay  first  a  chocolate,  then  a  light  one,  then  a  pink 
and  lastly  a  green  one.  Put  together  with  lemon  jelly 
made  as  follows:  Beat  I  egg,  add  I  cup  of  water  and 
the  grated  rind  and  juice  of  i  lemon.  Pour  this  slowly 
on  2  tablespoons  of  corn  starch  or  potato  flour,  mixed 
with  i  cup  of  sugar.  Cook  in  a  saucepan  till  it  is  smooth 
like  cream.     Frost  with  plain  white  frosting. 

FRUIT  CAKE.  (Creole  recipe.) 
Brown  I  pound  of  sifted  flour  lightly,  without  the  least 
sign  of  a  scorch.  Cream  i  pound  of  powdered  sugar^fc*^ 
and  beat  until  very  white  and  creamy ;  then  add  the 
beaten  yolks  of  10  eggs,  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  alter- 
nating with  a  sift-in  of  the  flour.  Have  ready  I  pound 
of  stoned  raisins,  I  pound  of  currants,  y2  pound  of  citron, 
cut  very  fine ;  sprinkle  with  a  little  of  the  flour  and  add 
to  the  batter ;  then  add  a  teaspoon  each  of  cinnamon, 
cloves,  mace  and  allspice,  2  grated  nutmegs,  2  ounces 
each  of  candied  orange  and  lemon  peel,  a  handful  of 
dried  cherries,  %  pound  each  of  almonds  and  pecans 
(weighed  after  shelling),  1  wineglass  of  sherry,  1  wine- 
glass of  brandy,  1  wineglass  of  white  wine.  This  will  have 
to  be  mixed  and  beaten  for  a  long  time,  using  the  hand 
instead  of  a  spoon.  Put  in  deep  buttered  pans  and  bake 
in  a  slow  oven  for  4  hours.  It  should  not  be  cut  until 
cold,  and  must  be  handled  carefully  when  warm,  as  then 
it  breaks  easily. 

148 


New  England  Cook  Book 


FEATHER  CAKE. 
Cream  y*  cup  of  butter  (good  measure),  add  2  cups 
of  sugar,  cream  until  very  light ;  add  the  well-beaten  yolks 
of  3  eggs,  and  1  teaspoon  of  flavoring;  mix  and  sift  4 
teaspoons  baking  powder,  with  3^2  cups  of  flour.  Add 
to  the  first  mixture,  alternately,  with  1  cup  of  milk,  lastly 
the  beaten  whites.     Beat  well  and  bake  in  a  shallow  pan. 

DELICATE  CAKE. 

Cream  24  of  a  cup  of  butter,  add  2  cups  of  powdered 
sugar  and  beat  well.  Sift  1  rounding  teaspoon  of  cream 
of  tartar  and  ^  teaspoon  of  soda,  with  3  cups  of  flour ; 
add  alternately  with  1  cup  of  milk,  then  add  the  well- 
beaten  whites  of  4  eggs,  lastly  1  teaspoon  of  almond 
or  lemon  extract.  Bake  in  a  tube  pan  or  in  layers.  Four 
level  teaspoons  of  baking  powder  may  be  used  in  place 
of  cream  of  tartar  and  soda. 

PORK  CAKE. 

Chop  1  pound  salt  pork  very  fine,  add  4  coffee  cups 
brown  sugar,  2  cups  molasses,  2  cups  strong  coffee,  6 
eggs  well  beaten,  2  teaspoons  mace,  3  heaping  teaspoons 
cloves,  4  nutmegs  grated,  essence  of  lemon  to  taste,  1 
pound  each  of  currants,  raisins  and  citron  chopped  fine 
and  6  cups  of  flour  sifted  with  4  rounding  teaspoons 
cream  of  tartar  and  2  level  teaspoons  soda.  Bake  full 
3  hours  in  a  moderate  oven. 

149 


New  England  Cook  Book 


COMPOSITION  CAKE. 

Two  cups  of  butter,  4  cups  of  sugar,  6  eggs,  1  cup  of 
sour  milk,  y2  cup  of  molasses,  y2  cup  of  brandy,  6  cups 
of  flour,  1  teaspoon  saleratus,  2  pounds  of  raisins, 
chopped,  2  pounds  of  currants  and  1  pound  of  citron 
(chopped  fine),  1  spoonful  each  of  cloves,  cinnamon  and 
2  or  3  nutmegs.  Beat  the  butter,  add  the  sugar,  grad- 
ually, the  well-beaten  eggs,  the  spice  and  brandy.  Dis- 
solve the  soda  in  the  milk  and  add  to  the  beaten  mixture. 
Then  add  the  flour  and  lastly  the  fruit.  Bake  2  hours 
in  well  buttered  pans  in  a  moderate  oven.  This  recipe 
may  be  halved  and,  if  much  fruit  is  not  liked,  use  only 
half  the  quantity. 

DUTCH  APPLE  OR  DRIED  APPLE  FRUIT  CAKE. 

Soak  2  cups  of  dried  apples  over  night  in  cold  water 
to  cover;  in  the  morning  put  them  on  to  simmer  with 
i/^  cups  of  molasses  until  soft — about  2  hours.  When 
cold,  add  1  cup  of  butter,  2  eggs,  beaten  light,  2  cups  of 
sugar,  1  cup  of  milk,  5  cups  of  flour,  to  which  has  been 
added  1  teaspoon  soda ;  beat  well  for  2  or  3  minutes. 
Bake  in  a  steady  oven  for  at  least  30  minutes.  This 
quantity  makes  two  good  sized  panfuls  and  is  a  delicious 
and  inexpensive  cake.  A  handful  of  raisins  stewed  for 
a  few  minutes  may  be  added  if  liked. 

GINGER  BREAD. 
Cream  y2  cup  of  butter,  add  1  cup  of  sugar  and  beat 
well;  then  add  2  eggs,  beaten  light,  1  cup  of  molasses, 

150 


New  England  Cook  Book 


to  which  has  been  added  I  teaspoon  of  soda.  Mix  I 
teaspoon  cinnamon  and  i  tablespoon  ginger,  with  3  cups 
of  sifted  flour ;  add  this  alternately  to  the  first  mixture, 
with  1  cup  of  sweet  milk.  (If  necessary  add  from  */$ 
to  y2  cup  more  of  flour.)  Pour  into  shallow  pans  and 
bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven.  Cover  between  and  on 
top  with  caramel  frosting. 

SOFT   GINGER  BREAD. 

Four  teacups  of  flour,  2  cups  of  molasses,  2  cups  of 
buttermilk,  1  cup  of  thick  cream,  l/2  cup  of  butter,  3  eggs, 
1  tablespoon  white  ginger  and  1  dessertspoon  of  saleratus. 
Warm  the  butter  and  molasses  together;  when  soft  add 
flour,  cream,  beaten  eggs  and  ginger ;  dissolve  the  saleratus 
in  the  buttermilk  and  stir  it  quickly  into  the  other  ingre- 
dients. Put  it  immediately  into  shallow  pans  and  bake 
in  a  rather  quick  oven. 

HOT  WATER  GINGER  BREAD. 

One  cup  of  molasses,  ^4  cup  of  butter  and  drippings, 
melted,  1  generous  teaspoon  of  soda,  dissolved  in  1  scant 
cup  of  boiling  water,  1  teaspoon  of  ginger  and  y2  tea- 
spoon of  cinnamon,  and  flour  enough  to  make  a  very  thin 
batter.  Bake  in  a  shallow  pan  or  gem  pans  in  a  moder- 
ately hot  oven  for  20  minutes.  Half  coffee  and  half 
water  may  be  used  if  flavor  is  liked. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

Put  1  pint  of  risen  milk  bread  dough  in  a  mixing  bowl, 

151 


New  England  Cook  Book 


add  2  eggs,  well  beaten,  i  cup  of  sugar,  1-3  of  a  cup  of 
melted  butter  and  a  saltspoon  of  nutmeg,  and  beat  it  well 
into  the  dough,  using  the  hand  to  mix  with;  add  more 
flour  if  necessary  to  have  a  dough  soft  enough  to  roll  out. 
Roll,  cut  out,  fry  in  deep  fat,  hot  enough  for  the  dough 
to  rise  at  once.     Drain  as  for  crullers. 

RAISED  DOUGHNUTS. 

One  pint  of  milk,  ]/2  pint  of  home  made  yeast  or  y2 
yeast  cake,  2  cups  of  light  brown  sugar,  2-3  of  a  cup  of 
melted  butter  and  lard  mixed  in  equal  parts,  3  eggs,  3 
grated  nutmegs,  1  teaspoon  salt ;  make  into  a  soft  dough. 
Scald  the  milk,  add  the  salt;  when  lukewarm  add  the 
yeast  and  the  3  cups  of  flour.  Let  rise  over  night ;  in 
the  morning  add  all  the  other  ingredients;  do  not  have 
the  dough  stiff  enough  to  stand ;  let  rise  in  a  warm  place, 
then  take  a  little  dough  at  a  time  on  the  board,  roll  out 
about  an  inch  thick;  then  roll  in  the  hand  till  it  will  not 
crack;  then  put  on  a  floured  board,  and  after  one  rises 
turn  over  and  let  rise  again.  Use  a  long  knitting  needle 
to  prick  with  in  frying  them.  Drain,  and  when  partly 
cooled,  sprinkle  with  sugar ;  when  cooler,  add  more. 

SOUR  MILK  DOUGHNUTS. 

Three  eggs,  beaten  light;  add  6  tablespoons  of  sugar, 
1  heaping  tablespoon  butter,  melted,  l/2  cup  of  sour  milk, 
in  which  y2  teaspoon  soda  has  been  dissolved,  1  nutmeg, 
grated,  and  flour  enough  to  make  a  soft  dough  to  roll 
out.     (Mix  the  dough  a  little  soft  at  first.)     Have  the 

152 


New  England  Cook  Book 


board  well  floured;  cut  into  any  shape  and  fry  in  the 
usual  manner. 

CRULLERS. 

One-half  pound  of  butter,  ^  pound  of  powdered  sugar, 
6  eggs,  cinnamon  and  mace  to  taste,  enough  flour  to 
make  a  paste.  Cream  butter  and  sugar,  beat  the  eggs 
light  (white  and  yolks  separately)  and  beat  all  together; 
add  spices  and  flour  enough  to  make  a  dough  soft  enough 
to  handle.  Roll  out  thin  and  cut  into  fancy  shapes,  and 
fry  in  plenty  of  hot  fat.  Drain,  by  plunging  into  a 
saucepan  of  rapidly  boiling  water,  and  remove  at  once. 
Sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar  and  cinnamon. 

HERMITS. 

Cream  y2  cup  butter,  add  iy2  cups  brown  sugar  and 
cream  again;  then  add  2  eggs  well  beaten.  Sift  1  cup 
flour  with  1  teaspoon  each  of  soda,  cinnamon,  cloves 
and  nutmeg  and  add  to  the  first  mixture  with  %  cup 
milk.  Dredge  l/\  cup  chopped  raisins  and  l/\  cup 
chopped  currants  with  flour  and  stir  into  the  mixture. 
Add  more  flour  if  needed.  Roll  out  thin,  cut  in  rounds 
and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  10  minutes. 

NUT  WAFERS. 
Cream  y>  cup  of  butter,  add  gradually  1  cup  of  pow- 
dered sugar,  y2  cup  of  milk,  adding  drop  by  drop ;  1%  cups 
of  bread  flour,  y2  teaspoon  of  lemon  or  almond  flavoring. 
Spread  very  thin  on  the  bottom  of  an  inverted  bread 

153 


New  England  Cook  Book 


pan,  buttered;  mark  in  squares  and  sprinkle  with  any 
kind  of  nuts  chopped  fine.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
from  5  to  8  minutes.  Roll  in  cornucopia  shape  while 
warm.  Set  the  pan  on  the  back  of  the  stove  and  roll 
quickly  as  they  become  brittle.  These  are  delicious 
served  with  ice  cream. 

SAND  TARTS.    (Southern  recipe.) 

i J4  pounds  of  brown  sugar,  il/2  pounds  of  flour,  I 
pound  of  butter,  2  eggs,  I  pound  of  almonds.  Cream 
butter  and  sugar  together.  Beat  well  I  whole  egg  and 
the  yolk  of  another,  and  add  to  the  butter  and  sugar; 
stir  the  flour  in  gradually.  Chill,  toss  on  a  floured  board 
and  roll  very  thin;  cut  out,  lay  on  buttered  tins,  brush 
with  white  of  egg,  unbeaten,  and  decorate  with  almonds 
split  in  halves.  Sprinkle  with  sugar  and  cinnamon,  in 
the  proportion  of  i  tablespoon  of  sugar  and  54  teaspoon 
cinnamon.  Bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven  about  8 
minutes.     These  tarts  will  keep  a  year. 

COOKIES. 

Cream  I  cup  of  butter,  add  2  cups  sugar,  2  eggs,  well 
beaten,  i  tablespoon  of  milk,  l/2  teaspoon  each  cloves 
and  nutmeg,  4  teaspoons  baking  powder,  mixed  with  4 
cups  of  flour,  il/2  cups  of  cocoanut.  Mix  soft  enough 
to  be  handled  easily,  roll  out  thin,  and  bake  in  a  hot 
oven  10  minutes. 

154 


New  England  Cook  Book 

COOKIES.     (No  2.) 

One  cup  of  butter,  2  cups  of  sugar,  3  eggs,  1  cup  of 
sour  milk,  1  teaspoon  of  soda,  dissolved  in  a  little  of  the 
milk;  add  flour  enough  to  roll  soft.  Flavor  with  cin- 
namon or  nutmeg. 

SUGAR  COOKIES. 

Cream  1  cup  of  butter,  add  2  cups  of  sugar,  3  eggs, 
well  beaten,  1  saltspoon  of  nutmeg,  2  tablespoons  of 
milk,  flour  enough  to  roll ;  mix  y>  teaspoon  of  soda,  with 
part  of  the  flour.  Roll  very  thin  and  bake  on  a  sheet 
for  10  minutes. 

GINGER  SNAPS. 
Beat  y2  cup  of  butter  to  a  cream  in  a  warm  bowl,  then 
add  gradually  y2  cup  of  sugar  and  y2  cup  of  molasses,  y2 
tablespoon  of  ginger,  y2  teaspoon  of  soda,  J4  cup  of 
milk,  gradually  add  about  3  cups  of  flour.  Then  roll 
out  very  thin  and  cut  with  a  round  cutter. 

MACAROONS.     (Southern  recipe.) 

To  y2  pound  of  sweet  almonds  and  J4  pound  of  bitter 
almonds,  pounded  to  a  powder,  add  24  of  a  pound  of 
loaf  sugar,  rolled  fine.  Beat  the  whites  of  3  eggs  very 
stiff  and  add  a  little  rose  water,  and  mix  with  the 
almonds.  When  the  mixture  is  soft  enough  to  shape, 
drop  by  spoonfuls  on  tin  sheets,  lined  with  paper,  and 
bake  in  a  slow  oven. 

155 


New  England  Cook  Book 


CARAMEL  FROSTING. 

Boil  i  cup  of  sugar,  l/±  cup  of  milk,  y2  square  chocolate 
until  they  thread ;  then  add  y2  teaspoon  vanilla. 

CHOCOLATE  FROSTING. 

Beat  the  whites  of  2  eggs  stiff  and  dry;  add  \l/2  cups 
of  sugar,  2  teaspoons  of  vanilla  and  5  tablespoons  of 
grated  and  melted  chocolate.  Spread  between  layers  and 
on  the  top  and  sides  of  cake. 

FROSTING. 
One-half  cup  granulated  sugar  and    l/>   cup  of  cold 
water.    Boil  together  until  it  threads.     Pour  immediately 
on  beaten  white  of  1   (igg,  beating  until  stiff  enough  to 
remain  on  cake.     Flavor  with  ]/2  teaspoon  of  vanilla. 

BROWN  FROSTING. 

Boil  1  cup  of  brown  sugar,  1-3  cup  of  water,  till  it 
threads ;  pour  this  on  the  beaten  white  of  I  egg  and  beat 
till  of  the  right  consistency  to  spread. 

BOILED  FROSTING. 

Boil  1  cup  granulated  sugar  with  y2  cup  of  water, 
without  stirring,  till  it  ropes,  when  dropped  from  a  fork 
or  spoon.  Pour  gradually  over  the  stiffly  beaten  whites 
of  2  eggs,  beating  hard.  Flavor.  When  it  thickens  and 
is  perfectly  smooth,  pour  over  the  cake. 

PLAIN  ICING. 
Beat  the  white  of  1  egg  stiff,  add  1  cup  of  powdered 
sugar  and  beat  very  hard  for  10  minutes;  add  1  teaspoon 

156 


New  England  Cook  Book 


lemon  juice,  if  white  icing  be  desired;  orange,  if  for 
yellow  icing.  Spread  on  cake  while  warm,  with  a  broad 
bladed  knife,  dipped  in  cold  water.  Set  in  a  warm  place 
to  dry.     In  frosting  cakes,  dip  into  the  icing. 

CHOCOLATE  ICING. 

Whites  of  2  eggs,  I  cup  of  powdered  sugar,  6  table- 
spoons grated  chocolate  and  I  teaspoon  vanilla.  Put  the 
sugar  with  2  tablespoons  of  hot  water  and  chocolate  in 
a  saucepan  and  stir  until  smooth  and  glossy ;  beat  the 
whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  then  add  the  sugar 
and  chocolate.  If  eggs  are  very  large,  use  y2  cup  more 
of  sugar. 

CARAMEL  ICING. 

Put  1  cupful  of  brown  sugar  into  a  saucepan  and  cook 
over  a  hot  fire  until  the  sugar  is  well  burned.  Then  pour 
over  it  1  cupful  of  water  and  let  it  cook  until  the  sugar 
threads.  Have  ready  the  well-beaten  whites  of  2  eggs 
and  pour  the  burnt  sugar  slowly  over  them  and  beat 
rapidly  until  the  icing  is  frothy  and  thick ;  add  1  teaspoon 
of  flavoring  and  a  tablespoon  of  sherry.  When  the  mix- 
ture is  very  light  spread  it  smoothly  on  top  and  sides  of 
cake. 

CARAMEL  FILLING  FOR  CAKE. 

Three  cups  of  brown  sugar,  ^  CUP  °f  cream,  6  ounces 
of  butter;  boil  together  until  it  hardens  when  dropped 
on  a  plate  of  water. 

157 


New  England  Cook  Book 


CHOCOLATE  FILLING. 

Chocolate  filling  for  layer  cake  is  made  in  the  propor- 
tion of  i  egg  to  every  2  ounces  of  chocolate.  Melt  the 
chocolate  over  boiling  water ;  beat  the  white  of  the  egg 
until  stiff,  then  beat  in  gradually  2  tablespoons  powdered 
sugar,  beating  until  stiff  enough  to  keep  its  shape.  Beat 
in  the  melted  chocolate.  This  can  be  used  not  only  for 
the  filling  between  the  cakes,  but  is  good  for  the  icing. 

APPLE  FILLING. 

Beat  the  white  of  1  egg  very  stiff,  add  1  cup  of  pow- 
dered sugar,  the  finely  grated  pulp  of  1  sour  apple,  1 
tablespoon  of  cream  and  a  generous  speck  of  nutmeg ; 
beat  thoroughly  for  5  minutes  and  flavor  with  j/2  tea- 
spoon of  vanilla. 

MOCHA  FILLING. 

Cream  2  tablespoons  of  butter,  add  1  ctfp  of  powdered 
sugar,  3  rounding  teaspoons  of  cocoa,  1  teaspoon  vanilla, 
1  tablespoon  of  cream  and  2  tablespoons  of  coffee.  Beat 
well  and  spread  between  and  on  top  of  layer  cake. 


158 


CHAPTER  VII. 

Preserves  and  Pickling 

HINTS 

A  few  lumps  of  lime  placed  on  the  shelves  of  the  store- 
room will  keep  pickles,  jams,  etc.,  from  becoming  mouldy. 
Renew  occasionally. 

If  grape  or  other  small  fruit  juice  fails  to  jelly,  add  a 
small  quantity  of  apple  juice  and  let  all  boil  together. 

Do  not  gather  currants  or  other  small  fruits  after  a 
rain,  as  then  it  is  impossible  to  get  the  juice  to  jelly. 

Hard  boiling  causes  jelly  to  crystallize.  It  should  only 
simmer.  Jellies  should  be  covered  closely  and  kept  in  a 
cool,  dry,  dark  place. 

Loaf  sugar,  crushed  and  rolled  fine,  is  best  for  pre- 
serving. 

PRESERVED  QUINCES. 

Wipe,  pare,  quarter  and  remove  the  core  and  hard 
part.  Weigh  fruit  and  take  an  equal  quantity  of  sugar. 
Put  quinces  into  cold  water  and  when  all  have  been 
pared,  drain;  put  into  a  preserving  kettle,  cover  with 
cold  water  and  cook  over  a  slow  fire  until  fruit  is  tender 
enough  to  be  pierced  with  a  fork;  skim  out  and  lay  on 
a  platter  until  all  are  cooked.  Strain  the  water,  add 
sugar  and  cook  gently  for   10  minutes,  skimming  until 

159 


New  England  Cook  Book 


clear;  then  put  in  as  many  quinces  as  the  syrup  will  cover. 
Simmer  until  the  fruit  turns  a  rich  red.  Lift  out  with  a 
spoon,  drop  piece  by  piece  into  hot  glass  jars.  Let  the 
syrup  cook  a  little  longer  or  until  very  thick;  pour  over 
the  quinces,  filling  almost  to  the  top ;  add  I  teaspoon 
of  brandy,  seal  and  keep  in  a  cool,  dry  place. 

PRESERVED  CRAB  APPLE. 

Pare  fine  ripe  apples  and  throw  at  once  into  cold 
water.  Put  the  parings  in  the  preserving  kettle  and  cover 
with  cold  water  and  simmer  about  i  hour.  Strain  off 
the  water  and  put  it  back  in  the  kettle.  Add  as  many 
pounds  of  sugar  as  you  have  pounds  of  fruit,  and  cook 
until  syrup  is  quite  thick.  Drop  in  a  few  apples  at  a 
time  and  cook  until  tender  enough  to  be  pierced  with  a 
fork.  Lift  out  carefully  and  drop  into  glass  bottles. 
Cook  the  syrup  a  little  longer,  pour  over  the  apples  and 
add  i  teaspoon  of  brandy  and  seal.  Peaches  may  be  done 
in  the  same  way  by  cutting  in  halves  and  cooking  the 
kernels  with  the  parings. 

QUINCE  MARMALADE. 

Take  as  many  quinces  as  you  may  wish.  Rub,  pare, 
core  and  boil  in  a  little  water  until  soft ;  put  the  cores  and 
skins  on  to  boil  separately,  in  water  enough  to  cover ; 
when  soft  strain  liquor  into  the  boiling  quince  mixture 
and  rub  through  a  sieve.  Put  on  to  cook  again  (stirring 
almost  constantly)  for  y2  hour,  adding  $4  as  much  sugar 

160 


New  England  Cook  Book 


as  fruit,  measured  after  paring.    When  smooth  and  firm, 
put  in  jars,  seal  air-tight  and  keep  in  dry,  cool  place. 

ORANGE  MARMALADE. 

Take  3  large  seedless  oranges  and  2  large  lemons  (re- 
jecting seeds  from  lemons)  and  put  into  a  meat  chopper, 
and  grind  all  together.  Add  11  jelly  tumblers  of  cold 
water ;  let  it  stand  24  hours,  then  boil  uncovered  1  hour. 
Remove  from  stove,  add  4  pounds  of  granulated  sugar 
and  let  stand  another  24  hours.  Then  boil  steadily  for 
1  ]/2  hours.    This  quantity  will  fill  about  a  dozen  glasses. 

CURRANT  JELLY. 

Currants  should  be  quite  ripe,  but  not  owr-ripe.  Pick 
over,  wash,  stem  and  put  into  a  preserving  kettle  set  on 
back  of  range  until  juice  flows  freely;  mash  with  a 
wooden  vegetable  masher  and  strain  through  a  coarse 
strainer.  Turn  the  juice  into  a  flannel  bag  and  let  drip 
into  a  vessel  beneath,  all  night.  In  the  morning  measure 
juice  and  allow  an  equal  amount  of  sugar.  Put  the  juice 
into  a  preserving  kettle  and  let  it  boil  about  20  minutes 
(skim  if  necessary)  ;  add  the  sugar  and  cook  until  it 
thickens  on  a  plate  when  exposed  to  the  air.  Turn  at 
once  into  hot  glasses,  add  y2  teaspoon  brandy  and  cover 
with  paper  pasted  over  the  top.  Keep  in  a  cool,  dry, 
dark  place. 

WILD  GRAPE  JELLY. 

Select  the   grapes   when   not    fully   ripe.     Wash   and 

161 


New  England  Cook  Book 


drain  and  make  same  as  Currant  Jelly.  Ripe  grapes 
with  a  handful  of  green  ones  gives  a  most  delicately 
colored  and  flavored  jelly. 

ELDERBERRY  JELLY. 

Make  same  as  currant  jelly.  Do  not  use  for  2  or  3 
months,  so  it  will  thicken,  it  being  more  like  a  syrup  at 
first.     This  is  excellent  for  throat  trouble. 

CRAB  APPLE  OR  PORTER  APPLE  JELLY. 

Wash  apples,  remove  stem  and  blossom  ends,  and  cut 
into  quarters  (do  not  pare  nor  remove  seeds).  Put 
into  a  preserving  kettle  and  cover  with  cold  water  and 
boil  until  soft;  then  put  them  into  a  coarse  sieve  and 
press  out  all  the  juice ;  strain  again  through  a  flannel  bag. 
Do  not  squeeze  it,  as  that  makes  the  jelly  cloudy.  Meas- 
ure the  juice  and  allow  il/2  pints  of  sugar  to  1  quart  of 
juice,  and  boil  down  just  one-half ;  then  skim,  and  turn 
into  glasses  and  add  1  teaspoon  of  brandy.  Cover  and 
keep  in  a  cool,  dry  place.  One  part  quince  and  four  parts 
apple  make  a  most  delicious  jelly ;  in  that  case,  use  equal 
parts  of  juice  and  sugar. 

QUINCE  JELLY. 

Follow  directions  for  Apple  Jelly,  using  quinces  in 
place  of  apples. 

SPICED  APPLES. 

A  russet  is  generally  chosen  for  this  dish.  Remove 
the  core,  but  do  not  pare  it.     Stick  2  cloves  in  each  apple. 

162 


New  England  Cook  Book 


Make  a  syrup  in  the  proportion  of  4  pounds  of  sugar  to 
1  quart  of  vinegar ;  add  the  apples  whole  and  cook  until 
soft  enough  to  be  pierced  with  a  straw.  Then  add  2 
ounces  of  cassia  bud  and  1  ounce  of  whole  mace.  Put  2 
ounces  of  ginger  root,  scraped  and  sliced,  in  the  vinegar 
and  sugar  before  you  begin  to  cook  the  apples.  This 
will  take  7  or  8  pounds  of  fruit. 

SPICED  CURRANTS. 

Three  pounds  of  white  sugar,  5  pounds  of  ripe  cur- 
rants, 1  tablespoon  each  of  cinnamon,  cloves,  nutmeg  and 
allspice.  Boil  currants  1  hour,  then  add  the  sugar,  spices 
and  y2  pint  of  vinegar ;  boil  y2  hour  longer. 

SPICED  CURRANTS.  (No.  2.) 
Fruit  that  is  very  ripe  or  soft  makes  excellent  jam. 
Boil  7  pounds  fruit  y2  hour  or  until  very  soft  and  well 
cooked;  mash  with  a  wooden  spoon,  then  add  5  pounds 
sugar  and  return  to  the  fire  and  boil  slowly  1  hour  longer, 
stirring  often  to  prevent  burning.  When  jam  is  done, 
add  1  pint  of  sharp  cider  vinegar,  1  tablespoon  cinnamon, 
1  teaspoon  ginger  and  y2  teaspoon  cayenne  pepper. 

CHILI  SAUCE. 

Twenty-five  large  ripe  tomatoes,  12  onions,  6  green 
peppers,  1  head  of  celery,  chopped  fine ;  add  3  quarts  of 
vinegar,  il/2  cups  sugar,  1  tablespoon  each  of  allspice, 
clove,  cinnamon  and  mace;  1  tablespoon  of  salt.  Boil 
slowly  2l/2  hours. 

163 


New  England  Cook  Book 


TOMATO  KETCHUP. 
Wash  and  peel  12  ripe  tomatoes,  chop  3  green  peppers 
very  fine,  and  1  large  onion,  add  1  tablespoon  of  salt,  1 
tablespoon  of  brown  sugar,  1  teaspoon  each  of  allspice, 
cloves,  nutmeg,  ginger ;  the  spices  to  be  tied  in  a  bag ;  2 
cups  of  vinegar.     Boil  4  hours  and  strain. 

TOMATO  KETCHUP.  (No.  2.) 
Add  to  12  quarts  of  tomato,  (measured  after 
straining),  12  tablespoons  of  salt,  y.  of  a  pound  whole 
mustard  seed,  2  ounces  of  allspice,  y2  ounce  of  whole 
cloves  and  y2  ounce  of  cayenne  pepper.  Boil  slowly  4 
hours ;  sweeten  to  taste.  Strain  again,  then  add  1  cup  of 
vinegar.     Do  not  boil  again. 

TOMATO  CATSUP. 

One  gallon  of  tomatoes,  4  tablespoons  of  salt,  4  table- 
spoons of  black  pepper,  3  tablespoons  of  mustard,  2 
tablespoons  of  ground  cloves,  1  tablespoon  of  allspice,  2 
green  peppers,  1  pint  of  sharp  vinegar.  Simmer  4  hours 
and  strain  through  a  coarse  strainer,  add  y2  pint  of 
brandy  and  %  pound  of  sugar.  Bottle  it  and  add  a  bit 
of  mace  or  3  whole  cloves  to  each  bottle  and  let  it  stand 
over  night  uncovered. 

CHOW  CHOW. 

One  peck  of  green  tomatoes,  6  small  onions,  6  green 
peppers,  1  head  celery,  y2  cup  of  horse  radish,  1  teaspoon 
cinnamon,  %  of  an  ounce  of  cloves,  1  nutmeg.     Chop  the 

164 


New  England  Cook  Book 

tomatoes  and  cover  with  I  cup  of  salt;  let  stand  over 
night;  in  the  morning,  drain  off  every  drop.  Add  the 
other  ingredients  chopped.  Scald  2  quarts  of  vinegar 
in  1  pint  of  sugar  aand  pour  oyer  the  whole.  Put  it  on 
the  fire  and  boil  15  minutes,  stirring  all  the  time;  then 
place  it  where  it  will  simmer  until  the  tomatoes  are  soft 
and  thick.  Turn  into  jars,  cover  closely  and  keep  in  a 
dry,  cool  place. 

GREEN  TOMATOES  PICKLED. 

Slice  1  peck  of  green  tomatoes ;  add  1  teacup  of  salt ; 
let  stand  all  night.  In  the  morning  drain  off  the  salt. 
Add  6  small  onions  and  4  green  peppers,  cut  fine,  ]/2  pint 
of  white  mustard  seed,  Yz  ounce  of  ground  cloves,  >4 
ounce  of  allspice,  y2  teaspoon  of  cayenne  pepper.  Cover 
the  whole  with  vinegar  and  simmer  till  tender.  Do  not 
put  spice  and  mustard  seed  in  until  it  is  cool. 


165 


CHAPTER  VIII. 

Cooking  for  Invalids 

HINTS. 

Food  for  sick  people  should  be  served  either  hot  or 
cold;  never  lukewarm. 

TOAST  WATER. 
Take  thin  slices  of  white  bread  and  toast  it  very  brown 
on  both  sides,  being  careful  not  to  burn  it.  Put  the  toast 
into  a  pitcher  and  pour  over  it  boiling  water  from  a  tea- 
kettle, using  as  much  water  as  is  needed  for  a  drink. 
Strain  when  needed  and  serve. 

EGG  NOGG. 

Beat  the  yolk  of  I  egg,  very  light,  add  pinch  of  salt,  2 
tablespoons  sugar  and  1  or  2  tablespoons  of  brandy. 
Strain  into  a  tumbler  and  fill  with  milk  and  the  beaten 
white,  and  mix  until  frothy. 

WINE  CUSTARD  (for  a  convalescent). 
Put  on  to  boil  1  pint  of  white  wine,  add  sugar  to  taste, 
a  small  piece  of  stick  cinnamon,  or  the  rind  of  I  lemon. 
Let  it  boil  and  then  pour  over  the  beaten  yolks  of  7  eggs, 
stirring  all  the  while.  Set  cups  in  pan  of  boiling  water, 
strain  custard  into  them  and  cook  like  other  custards. 

166 


New  England  Cook  Book 


PEACH  CREAM. 

Take  4  large  white  peaches,  which  are  soft  and  ripe. 
Peel  and  cut  them  into  a  bowl,  add  1  cup  of  powdered 
sugar  and  the  white  of  1  egg,  and  beat  them  with  a  fork 
for  fully  20  minutes.  This  makes  a  delicious  smooth 
cream,  and  is  especially  nice  for  a  convalescent. 

RICE  WATER. 

Put  2  tablespoons  of  clean  washed  rice  into  2  quarts  of 
boiling  water,  and  let  it  simmer  for  2  hours,  until  the 
rice  is  thoroughly  cooked.  Strain  through  a  fine  strainer 
and  flavor  with  a  good  pinch  of  salt.  Serve  hot  or  cold. 
If  stimulants  are  prescribed,  2  tablespoons  of  sherry  may 
be  added,  and  makes  it  very  palatable. 

MUTTON  BROTH. 

Wipe  meat  with  a  damp  cloth ;  remove  all  the  fat  and 
cut  meat  into  small  pieces.  Allow  1  pint  of  cold  water 
to  each  pound  of  meat  and  bones ;  put  into  a  kettle  with 
the  cold  water  and  let  stand  for  half  an  hour ;  add  %  CUP 
of  washed  rice  or  barley  and  let  it  cook  slowly  for  3  or  4 
hours ;  remove  bones  and  meat ;  season  to  taste  with  salt, 
pepper,  celery  salt  and  nutmeg.     Strain  and  serve  hot. 

CLAM  BROTH. 

Wash  thoroughly  and  lay  a  dozen  large  clams  in 
their  shells  in  a  saucepan  with  y^  cup  of  cold  water.  Let 
the  water  come  to  a  boil ;  when  the  clams  open,  the  broth 
is  done.     Strain  it  and  add  salt  if  necessary. 

167 


New  England  Cook  Book 


OYSTER  BROTH. 

Chop  8  large  fresh  oysters  fine  and  cover  them  with 
a  cup  of  cold  water.  Let  it  come  slowly  to  the  boiling 
point  and  then  keep  it  gently  simmering  for  just  5  min- 
utes. Strain  into  a  hot  cup  and  serve  very  hot  with 
toast.  If  desired,  y2  cup  of  milk  may  be  added  to  the 
strained  liquor  and  then  returned  to  the  fire,  until  it 
comes  to  a  boil.     Season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  mace. 

TAMARIND  WATER.     (Southern  recipe.) 
Pour  1  pint  of  boiling  water  on  1  tablespoon  of  pre- 
served tamarinds.     Put  in  a  little  white  sugar,  mix  thor- 
oughly, let  it   stand   for   15  or  20  minutes,   strain  and 
serve.     Very  pleasant  and  cooling  in  fevers. 

CAMOMILE  FLOWERS  TEA.     (Southern  recipe.) 
Steep  a  handful  of  the  flowers  in  a  pint  of  boiling 

water,  let  it  cool  and  give  a  wineglass  every  3  hours. 

Good  for  weakness  after  illness ;  also  a  tonic. 

WINE  WHEY.     (Southern  recipe.) 
Take  1  cup  of  hot  milk,  add  1  wineglass  of  hot  water 
and  a  little  white  sugar  to  taste ;  then  put  in  1  wineglass 
of  madeira  or  sherry  wine,  strain  it  and  drink  the  whey 
hot,  without  the  curd. 

WINE  WHEY.     (No.  2.) 

Boil  1  cupful  of  milk  and  add  ^2  cupful  of  wine.  Let 
stand  until  the  curd  has  separated  from  the  whey.  Strain 
through  a  very  fine  strainer.  Sweeten  to  taste  and  serve 
either  hot  or  cold 

168 


New  England  Cook  Book 


COCOA  CORDIAL 

Put  into  a  cup  ^  teaspoon  of  cocoa,  add  2  lumps  of 
sugar,  2-3  cup  of  boiling  water  and  2  tablespoons  of 
Port  wine.  Mix  well  and  serve  without  further  cook- 
ing.    This  is  good  in  cases  of  exhaustion  or  a  chill. 

IRISH  MOSS  JELLY. 

One-half  cup  of  Irish  moss,  i*/2  cups  of  boiling  water, 
2  cups  of  milk,  a  pinch  of  salt.  Wash  the  moss  till 
soft  and  free  from  sand.  Put  it  with  the  boiling  water 
and  salt  into  the  top  of  the  double  boiler  and  cook  until 
thick  as  cream.  Strain  into  the  milk,  which  has  been 
scalded.  Flavor  with  y2  teaspoon  vanilla,  and  pour  into 
small  cups,  previously  wet  with  cold  water.  Set  away  to 
harden  and  serve  with  cream  and  sugar. 
BEEF  TEA. 

Chop  1  pound  of  lean  beef  very  fine.  Put  into  a  clean 
bottle,  with  a  little  salt,  1  or  2  fresh  celery  leaves  and  a 
sprig  of  parsley.  Pour  in  a  pint  of  cold  water  and  cork 
the  bottle  tightly.  Place  it  upon  a  trivit,  in  a  pot  partly 
filled  with  cold  water  and  let  heat  very  slowly  for  3  or  4 
hours ;  cook  until  the  liquid  turns  a  reddish  brown.  Strain 
and  serve  hot.  If  any  particles  of  fat  are  present,  it  may 
be  removed  by  putting  in  pieces  of  thin  brown  paper,  to 
absorb  it. 

BROILED  BEEF  JUICE. 

Get  a  piece  of  lean  beef,  cut  an  inch  thick,  and  broil  it 
over  red  hot  coals;  turn  often  to  prevent  the  juices  from 

169 


New  England  Cook  Book 


escaping  and  allow  2  minutes  to  each  side.  Cut  into 
small  pieces  and  squeeze  the  juice  through  a  lemon 
squeezer  into  a  heated  cup;  add  a  pinch  of  salt  and  a 
shake  of  pepper.     Serve  at  once. 

COCOA. 

Moisten  2  teaspoons  of  Phillips  Cocoa  with  an  equal 
amount  of  cold  water  and  let  it  stand  one  minute.  Add 
1/2  cup  of  boiling  water  and  boil  for  a  few  minutes ;  then 
add  1  cup  of  hot  milk. 

INDIAN  MEAL  GRUEL. 

Mix  6  tablespoons  of  sifted  Indian  meal  with  6  table- 
spoons of  cold  water  until  smooth  and  free  from  lumps. 
Put  into  a  saucepan  with  1  pint  of  boiling  water  and  boil 
for  15  or  20  minutes,  stirring  to  prevent  burning;  then 
place  it  where  it  will  cook  slowly  for  2  or  3  hours. 
Add  milk,  enough  to  make  it  of  the  right  consistency,  a 
pinch  of  salt,  nutmeg  and  a  little  sugar.  One  tablespoon 
of  wine  may  be  added  if  liked.  Strain  through  a  coarse 
strainer  and  serve.  One  teaspoon  of  butter  improves  it 
if  it  is  allowed. 

EGG  GRUEL. 

Beat  the  yolk  of  1  egg  very  light,  add  1  teaspoon  sugar, 
a  pinch  of  salt,  1  cup  of  hot  milk  and  the  white  beaten 
stiff.  Flavor  with  nutmeg.  This  is  excellent  for  a  heavy 
cold  if  taken  very  hot  after  retiring. 

170 


New  England  Cook  Book 


OATMEAL  GRUEL.  (Irish  recipe.) 
One  cup  of  Irish  oatmeal,  4  cups  cold  water,  1  table- 
spoon of  chopped  raisins,  y2  teaspoon  salt.  Pick  over 
the  cereal  and  remove  any  black  specks.  Put  in  the  upper 
part  of  double  boiler  and  cook  directly  over  the  fire  until 
it  boils;  then  place  it  over  the  lower  part  and  cook  for 
7  or  8  hours,  thinning  with  boiling  water;  add  about  1 
cup  of  milk  or  cream,  and  a  little  sugar  and  nutmeg. 
Serve  very  hot.  Strain  if  wished.  This  is  very  good  for 
a  heavy  cold. 

OATMEAL  GRUEL.     (No.  2.) 

One-half  cup  of  Irish  oatmeal,  2  cups  of  cold  water, 
x/z  teaspoon  salt.  Roll  the  meal  until  floury,  add  ^4  of 
the  water,  stir  well  and  let  stand  a  few  minutes;  then 
pour  the  milky  looking  water  into  a  saucepan ;  continue 
adding  a  little  of  the  water  to  the  meal,  until  all  has  been 
used.  Boil  y2  hour,  stirring  to  prevent  burning.  Add 
milk  to  make  of  proper  consistency,  and  sugar.     Strain. 

IMPERIAL  GRANUM  GRUEL. 

Take  4  teaspoons  of  granum,  moisten  with  enough  cold 
water  to  make  a  thin  paste.  Add  1  cup  of  hot  water 
and  a  shake  of  salt  and  boil  for  10  minutes.  Add  I  cup 
of  cold  milk;  let  it  come  to  the  boiling  point  and  serve. 
If  you  wish,  a  very  little  sugar  may  be  added.  This  is 
very  good  served  after  surgical  operations. 

171 


New  England  Cook  Book 


ELDERBERRY  WINE. 

Put  the  elderberries  in  a  saucepan,  with  enough  water 
to  keep  from  burning,  and  simmer  until  the  juice  flows 
freely ;  cool  and  strain.  Boil  3  quarts  of  water,  4  pounds 
of  sugar  and  y2  pound  of  raisins  together  for  y?  hour ; 
strain,  and  when  cool  add  1  quart  of  the  elderberry  juice. 
Let  it  stand  for  24  hours,  and  skim  well.  Drop  in  a 
piece  of  toast,  about  y  inch  square,  spread  with  yeast 
and  leave  to  ferment  (about  3  weeks).  When  fermenta- 
tion has  ceased,  strain  into  a  cask  and  close  it  tightly  for 
2  months.  To  each  gallon  of  liquid  allow  y>  cup  of 
brandy,  rum  or  alcohol,  and  bottle.  It  will  be  fit  to  use 
after  6  months.  If  liked,  to  every  4  gallons  of  liquid 
add  1  ounce  each  of  cloves,  cinnamon,  allspice  and  y 
ounce  each  of  nutmeg  and  mace  before  bottling.  Keep 
in  a  cool  place. 

CLARET  PUNCH.     (Southern  recipe.) 

Use  1-3  as  much  water  as  claret,  put  on  to  boil  with 
a  lemon  peel,  a  few  cloves,  a  piece  of  stick  cinnamon  and 
some  loaf  sugar  to  taste ;  when  boiling  add  the  claret, 
strain  and  serve. 


172 


CORRECT  SAUCES  FOR  MEATS  AND  FISH. 

Roast  duck — orange  sauce  or  orange  salad. 

Roast  turkey — chestnut  dressing — cranberry  sauce. 

Roast  goose — tart  apple  sauce. 

Roast  canvas  back  duck — blackberry  jelly. 

Roast  chicken — bread  sauce. 

Roast  beef — horseradish  sauce. 

Roast  veal — horseradish  or  tomato  sauce. 

Roast  mutton — currant  jelly. 

Roast  lamb — mint  sauce. 

Roast  pork — apple  sauce. 

Corned  beef — made  mustard. 

Cold  boiled  tongue — sauce  tartare. 

Fried  chicken — cream  gravy. 

Fresh  salmon — white  or  hollandaise  sauce. 

Broiled  mackerel — Maitre  d'Hotel  butter. 

Lobster  cutlets — sauce  tartare. 

Fried  fish — cole  slaw. 


173 


INDEX 


Apples,  baked  123, 

Compote,  124 
Ginger,  123 
Stewed,  123 
Spiced,  162 
Artichokes,  87 
Asparagus,  88 
Bacon,  No.  2,  41 
Beans, 

Shelled,  90 
String,  84 
Beef,  corned,  51 
Frizzled,  41 
Gravy,  47 
Pot-roast,  54 
Roast,  47 
Beef,  steak,  broiled  45 
Stew,  45 
Steak  pie,  42 
Sandwiches,  49 
Tea,  169 

Juice,  broiled,  169 
Beets,  84 

Bisque,  of  lobster,  29 
Biscuit,  baking  powder,  17 

Raised,  10 
Bouillon,  28 
Bread,  Boston  brown  15 
Milk,    7 
Water,  8 
Steamed,  13 
Graham,  47 
Broth,  mutton,  167 


Scotch,  37 

Oyster,    167 

Clam,      167 
Buckwheat  cakes,         25 
Cake,  angel,  145 

Dutch  apple       150 
Cream,  138 

Cream,  (No.  2)  118 
(No.  3)  139 
Chocolate,  144  &  145 
Cup,  146 
Composition,  150 
Dayton,  147 
Delicate,  149 
Drop,  142 
Feather,  149 
Fruit,  148 
Gold,  142 

Lady  Baltimore,  143 
Neopolitan,  147 
Nut,  144 
Orange,  143 
Pound, 140 
(No.  2)  140 
Pork,  149 
Silver,  147 

Sponge,  139  &  140   " 
Strawberry,  146 
Spanish,  146 
Spice,  146 
Lightning,  140 
Robert  E.  Lee,  145 
Queen,  144 


174 


Index 


Currants,  spiced  163 
Celery,  89 
Cauliflower,  87 
Custard,  baked  106 
Boiled  106 
Caramel  106 
Strawberry  119 
Wine  166 
Crullers,  153 
Cookies,  154 

Sugar:  (No.  2)   155 
Croquettes,  beef  71 

Chicken  71 

(No.  2)   71 
Hominy  70 
Lobster  72 
Meat  72 
Oyster  69 
Potato  70 
Rice  69 
Salmon  69 
Fish  68 
Veal  70 
Corn  meal  puffs  12 
Corn  bread  (No.  2)  17 

Cake,  Never  fail  19 
Oatmeal  20 
Cranberry  Jelly,  121 

(No.  2)  122 
Carrots,  84 
Cream  filling,  138 
Cakes,  corn,  17 

Sour  milk  corn,  16 
Southern     "      20 
Spider         "      19 
R.  I.  Johnny,  13 
Melissa's,  16 
Hoe,  20 


Cakes,   Hominy;  18 
Puffs,  18 
Dough,  9 
Chocolate,  26    - 
Caramels,  129 
Cream,  128 
Candy,  creamed  walnuts,  128 
Butter  Scotch,  129 
Old  fashioned  moasses,  127 
Taffy,  127 
Peanut,  127 
Fudge,  127 
Chow-Chow,  164 
Chowder,  Belmont,  38 
Corn,  37 
Clam,  38 
Salt  codfish,  39 
Cabbage,  creamed,  92 
Scalloped,  90 
Boiled,  86 
Corn,  89 
Cocoa,  27-170 
Cordial,  169 
Coffee,  filtered,    87 
Coffee,  26 

made  over  night,  27 
Charlotte  Russe,  117 
Cieme  au  Cafe,  116 
Chamomile  tea,  168 
Chicken,  roast,  51 

Fricassee,  49 
Clams,  a  la  creme,  56 
Doughnuts,  151 

Raised  152 
Sour  milk  152 
Dough,  stick  8 
Dumplings  for  stew,  44 


175 


Index 


Duck,  roast  50 
Boiled  50 
Dressing,  Mayonnaise  94 

(No.  2)  94 
Dressing,  boiled  (No.  2)  95 
French  93 
Tomato  salad  98 
Eggs,  Boiled  soft  76 
Fried;  76 
Scrambled  77 
Stuffed  77 

(No.  2)  78 
Poached  77 
Cupped  77 
Vermicelli  79 
Eggnog,  166 
Egg  Plant,  stuffed  83 
87 
Fritter,  batter,  72 
Apple,  73 
Banana,  73 
Corn,  74 
Clam,  73 
Fruit,  73 
Oyster,  74 
Fish,  baked,  55 
Broiled,  61 

Smelts,  61 
Broiled  finnan  haddie.,  62 
Boiled  salmon,  60 
Codfish  balls,  59 
Creamed,  57 

Finnan  haddie, 
Escalloped,  60 
Fried,  61 
Flaked,  59 
A  la  poulette,  56 
Halibut  a  la  Creole,  56 
Scalloped  salmon,  59 


Fish,  Halibut  au  gratin,  57 

Toast,  58 
Fruit  trifle,  115 
Frosting  156 

Boiled  156 
Brown,  156 
Caramel,  156 
Chocolate,  156 
Filling,  caramel,  157 

Cream,  138  &  139 
Chocolate,  138 
Apple  158 
Mocha  158 
Griddle  Cakes,  21 

Pan  cakes  (No.  2)  24 
Bread  22 

(No.  2,)  21 
Indian  meal  22 
Graham  22 
Rice  or  hominy   22 
Sour  milk  22 
Sweet  pancakes  24 
Buckwheat  25 
(No.  2     25 
pan  24 
(No.  2)  24 
Pumpkin  23 
Oatmeal  23 
Gems  Breakfast  13 
Graham  14 
Gingerbread  150 

Soft  151 
60  Hot  water  151 

Ginger  snaps  155 
Gruel,  egg  170 

Imperial  granum  111 
Indian  meal  170 
Oatmeal  171 

No.  2  171 

176 


Index 


Hermits  153 
Ham,  boiled  49 
Broiled  49 
Fried  42 
Hamburg  steak    53 
How  to  add  yolks  of  eggs  to  soups 

and  sauces  62 
Ice  Cream,  coffee,    118 
French,  118 
Philadelphia,  118 
Raspberry,    117 
Icing,  156 

Caramel  157 
Chocolate,  157 
Ice  Cream  117 
Irish  Stew  43 
Jelly,  169 

Currant  161 
Wild  grape  161 
Elderberry  162 
Crab  apple  162 
Quince  162 
Irish  moss  169 
Cider,  120 
Coffee,  119 
Lemon,  119 
Orange,  119 
Wine,  119 

No.  2,  120 
No.  3,  120 
Fruit,  121 
Lobster  Newburgh,  62 
Lettuce,  93 
Macaroni,  92 

No.  2,  93 
Mutton,  or  lamb  chops  broiled  43 
Boiled  43 
Chops  en  papier  52 


Mutton,    Curry  of   40 

Haricot  of  42 
Mock  lamb  chops    51 
Meat,  casserole  of  45 
Muffins,  14 

(No.  2)  11 

Corn  18 

Fried  rye  11 

Graham  10 

Meal  12 

Rice  10 

Raised  Sally  Lunns  18 
.i      12 

Milk  toast,  16 

Meat  52 
Mince  meat  135 
Meringues  121 
Macaroons  155 
Omelet,  orange  75 
Plain  75 
Rich  75 
Onions,  boiled  85 
Baked  86 
Stuffed  91 
Oysters,  broiled  61 
Oxtail,  braised  53 
Old  fashioned  Johnny  cakes  13 
Oyster  plant   89 
Pastry,  for  one  pie  121 

Plain  130 
Prunes,  stewed  124 
Pie,  apple  133 

Colonial  pumpkin  131 

Custard  132 

Lemon  132 

Dried  apple  or  peach  133 

Mock  cherry  131 

Mince  131 


177 


Index 


Pie,  Bristol  133 

No.  2,   132 
3,  135 
Huckleberry  or   blueberry  133 
Rhubarb  134 
Bristol  133 
Elderberry  134 
Pottage,  peasant's    44 
Parsnip's  creamed    92 
Peas,  green,  boiled  88 
Pumpkin,  boiled  89 
Peppers,  stuffed    85 
Preserves,  quince  159 

Marmalade  160 
Crab  apple  160 
Orange  marmalade  161 
Punch,  claret  172 
Pop-overs      14 
Pork  and  beans,  baked   54 
Pork  chops,  46 
Pork,  roast  46 
Poultry,  gravy  47 
Roast,  51 
Pot  roast  of  beef,    54 
Peach  cream    167 
Potato,  baked  82 
Boiled  82 
Creamed  81 
En  surprise  80 
Franconia  82 
Fried  80 

Hashed  brown  80 
Lyonnaise  82 
Souffle  83 
A  la  maitre  81 
Mashed  81 
D'  hotel  81 
Pudding,  Bread  104 


Pudding,  Blueberry  110 

Brown  Betty  108 

Chocolate  105 

Chocolate  Custard  107 

Cottage  105 

Cracker  111 

Chocolate  Blanc    Mange, 
111 

Cabinet  115 

Cornstarch  107 

Cocanutll2 

Cranberry  113 

English  Plum  114 

Floating  Island  110 

Harriet  108 

Indian  Meal  109 

(No.  2)  109 

Jellied  Peaches  104 

Lemon  105 

New   England  plum    113 

Poor  mans  112 

Peach  charlotte  116 

Plain  rice  112 

Peaches  and  gelatine  116 

Rice  and   strawberry   115 

Surprise  103 

Suet  113 

Snow  105 

Steamed  apple  103 

Blueberry  104 

Fruit  104 

Snow  Cream  110 

Tapioca  108 

White  Mountain  110 

Yorkshire  47 
Rice,  boiled  90 
Steamed  93 
Water  167 
Rusk  8 


I78 


Index 


Rolls,  Parker  House  9 
Soup,  black  bean  23 

Celery  35 

Crecy  33 

Cream  of  chestnuts  30 
Soup  Virginia  29 
Turnip  34 
Lobster  Bisque  29 

Mock        "  36 

Okra  34 

Oyster  35 

Onion  34 

Potato  31 

Potato  (No.  2)  31 

Salmon  35 

Split  pea  36 

Stock  28 

St.  Germaine  30 

Tomato  32 

No.  2,  32 

Tomato  clam  32 
Sick  room  cookery  166 
Sand  tarts  154 
Sauce,  apple,  122 

Apple  (No.  2)  123 

Rhubarb  122 

White  65 

Velvet  66 

Bechemel,  66 

Caper,  66 

Chili,  163 

Creole,  63 

(No.  2)  03 

Cream,  thick,  66 
Rich,  57 

Curry,  65 

Claret,  126 

Creamy,  126 


S?uce,  Cider,  67 

Drawn  butter  66 

Egg  65 

Foamy  126 

Hard  126 

No.  2    126 

Horse  radish  64 

Hollandaise  68 

Lemon  125 

Maitre  d'hotel  63 

Maitre  d'hotel  butter  68 

Mint  64 

Molasses  126 

Olive  67 

Onion  65 

Onion,  for  beef  68 

Pudding  127 

Rum  125 

Tartare  67 

Tomato  64 

Wine  for  plum  pudding  124 

Wine  125 

Shortcake,  strawberry  142 
Salad 

Fruit  97 

Celery      and      chicken     in 
tomato   cups  96 

Spring  97 

Potato  101 

(No.  2)  101 
(No.  3)  101 

Apple  and  nut  100 

Beet  95 

Celery  95 

Chicken  99 

Club  100 

Cole  shaw  96 

Dandelion  95 


179 


Index 


Duck  96 

Fruit  97 

Lettuce  97 

Lobster  99 

Mock  chicken  99 

Potato   and     watercress  95 

Shrimp  98 

No.  2,   98 
No.  3,99 
Salmon  97 

Tomato  with  dressing  98 
Stuffing  48 

Chestnut  48 
Sherbet,  Pineapple  118 
Squash  85 

Baked  84 
Spinach  87 

(No.  2)  88 
Sandwiches,  Egg  78 
Ham  79 
Roast  beef  79 
Tomato,  baked  in  pan  91 
Ketchup  164 


Tomato,  Stewed  83 
Scalloped  90 
Stuffed  89 
Fried  91 
Turnips,  Creamed  86 
Mashed  84 
Tamarind,  water  168 
To  brown  flour  6 
Tomatoes,  green  pickled  165 
Toast,  water  166 
German  15 
Milk  16 
Tea  25 

Russian  26 
Veal  smothered  48 
Waffles,  14 

Rice  15 
Welsh  Rarebit  101 
Wine  Whey  168 

No.  2,  168 
Wine  elderberry,  172 
Wafers,  nut  153 


180 


NOV  111909 


NOV  III '309 


LIBRARY  OF  CONGRESS 


0  014  630  808  9 


