'  '■■; 


mm 


■_ 

w 

MMullmWh 

■ 


'  mem 


11 


MP 
m 


HI 


M. 


m 


m 


I 


rPj 


mm* 


ivufitf  uiv  I'll 


New  Orleans  600K  book 


BY  THE- 


Womrnauis  Parsonage 


-AND 


Home  Mission  Society, 


OF- 


Parker   J)(\emorial 

M.  E.  CHURCH  SOUTH. 

1898, 


<^      OFFICERS      ^> 

President MBS.   J.   W.  WILKINSON. 

Vice-President MRS.   L.  BIGGS. 

Secretary MBS.  J.  W.  B1LLINGTON. 

Treasurer MISS  C.  MITCHELL. 


r 


PURE.  RELIABLE.  PERFECT. 

...DIXIE... 

Baking  Powder, 

Full  Cream  of  Tartar  Powder. 


Guaranteed  not  to  contain  Ammonia,  Alum,  Phosphate, 
Lime  or  any  deleterious  substances.  Endorsed  by  tbe 
New  Orleans  Cooking  School. 

Highest  Award  for  General  Excellence — Atlanta  Expo- 
sition, December  1895. 


Dixie  Flavoring  Extracts, 

LEMON   and 
VANILLA. 

They  stand  without  a   peer   for   Purity,  Strength,  Delicacy  of 
Flavor.     Address  the  Sole  Manufacturers, 

Gulf  Manufacturing  Company, 

F.  W.  YOUNG,  Proprietor,  New  Orleans,  La. 


f) 


^ 


PREFACE. 


"Man  may  live  without  books. 

What  is  knowledge  but  grieving? 
He  may  live  without  hope. 

What  is  hope  but  deceiving'? 
He  may  live  without  love, 

What  is  passion  but  pining? 
But  where  is  the  man  that  can  live  without  dining?" 

The  promoters  of  this  modest  enterprise  hesitate  to 
claim  for  it  that  it  fills  a  long-  felt  want;  there  are  other 
cook  books  containing-  vastly  more  information  in  which 
the  resources  and  products  of  the  Frigid  Zone  and  the 
Tropics  are  drawn  on  for  the  purpose  of  whetting-  the 
human  appetite. 

The  sphere  of  this  little  book  is  more  limited,  but  we 
feel  that  it  will  appeal  with  great  force  to  its  limited  circle, 
for  it  is  especially  adapted  to  their  wants — the  ingredients 
called  for  in  the  recipes  given  are  always  to  be  had  in  sea- 
son in  our  own  markets,  and  many  of  the  appetizing  dishes 
for  which  New  Orleans  and  Louisiana  are  noted,  are  here- 
in described. 

It  has  not  been  the  aim  in  compiling-  these  recipes,  to 
tell  all  we  know,  or  all  that  our  friends  know,  but  out  of 
the  g-enerous  responses  to  our  requests  for  "two  or  three 
of  your  very  best,"  we  have  selected  these  as  the  "best  of 
the  best."  Very  few,  if  any,  are  original — many  have 
been  tried  and  tested  by  the  mothers  and  grandmothers  of 
the  donors,  while  others  are  more  modern — thoroughly 
"up-to-date;"  but  each  recipe  carries  the  enthusiastic  re- 
commendation of  her  whose  name  is  subscribed  thereto, 
and  one  has  but  to  read  over  these  names  to  be  convinced 
that  we  are  not  too  optimistic  in  expressing  the  belief  that 
this  collection  will  please  all  who  make  use  of  it. 


ESTABLISHED    I836 


J.  C.niLLER 

Tent  and  AwningCo.  Lt'd 

(Successors  to  Gassidy  &  Miller  ;ind  late   J.  C.   Miller) 

441  Camp  St.,  near  Poydras,  New  Orleans. 

Agents  for  Cotton  Duck  all  Widths. 

Fancy  and  Plain  Awning  Stripes,  Colored  Duck, 
Flag  Bunting,  Hammocks. 

Manufacturers  of  Awnings,  Tents,    Tarpaulii-s,    Flags,  Canvas 

Hammocks.     Galleries  and  Lawns  Enclosed.     Canopies 

Floors  Covered,  Etc.,  for  Weddings  and  Parties. 


^& 


Torpid  Liver,  Malaria, 
Chills  and  Fever, 
Indigestion,  Dyspepsia, 
Gastritis,    Billiousness, 


General  Debility, 
Jaundice,     Dysentery, 
Diarrhoea  and 
Constipation. 


An  absolute  Cure  for    Bright's  Disease,  Diabetes 
and  every  form  of  Kidney  Trouble. 

Used  by  most  prominent  Physicians  in  the  South. 

Springs  located  3  miles  west  of  Durant,  Miss.     No  Mosquitos. 
Good  Table  and  Best  Hotel  Accommodations. 

<^_405  BARONNE  STREET. 


Bread. 


.-^  -^  -^  -^  -^  -^  -^  -^  -^  -^  -^  -^  -^ .  y 


9 


i^;^^^ 


"Here  is  bread,  which  strengthens  men's  hearts, 
and  therefore  is  called  "The  Staff  of  Life." 


Graham  Bread. 

Made  with  equal  parts  of  Graham  and  white  flour. 
Bake  and  treat  as  you  would  ordinary  white  bread.  The 
adding-  of  white  flour  to  the  Graham  prevents  the  bread 
from  drying-  up.  Miss  Cocker. 

Graham  Bread. 

3  pints  Graham  flour,  1  pint  white  flour,  1  cup  yeast, 
y2  cup  molasses,  1*  teaspoonful  salt  mix  with  lukewarm 
water  as  stiff  as  you  can,  stir  with  a  spoon.  Let  it  rise 
over  night  and  bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven. 

Miss  Cocker. 
Light  Rolls. 

Boil  one  pint  of  whey,  pour  on  to  a  half  tablespoonful  of 
flour,  let  stand  until  cool,  then  stir  into  it  the  yeast,  (either 
yeast  cake  or  compressed,)  add  flour  sufficient  to  make  a 
stiff  batter,  and  beat  half  an  hour;  allow  about  four  hours 
to  rise,  then  sift  the  flour,  pour  into  it  this  batter,  add  four 
tablespoonsful  of  lard,  one  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  one  eg-g  also 
salt,  make  out  into  rolls  and  when  sufficiently  raised,  bake 
in  hot  oven.  Mrs.   W.  W.  Carre. 


11 


4       * 


IS  THE   MOST  WONDERFUL  REMEDY  FOR 


Wounds,  Burns,  Etc. 

EVER  OFFERED  THE  PUBLIC. 

Prevents  Inflammation  and  Suppuration.     Cures   Colic  in  Man 

or  Beast.     Pleasant,  Harmless  and  Reliable.     Everybody 

has  something  good  to  say  about  it. 

Beware  of  Imitations.  The  Woods  Are  Full  of  'Em. 

Only  50  Cents  by  Druggists. 

Sherrouse  Medicine  Co., 


Manufacturers  and  Proprietors. 


NEW  ORLEANS,  LA. 


T.  J.  &  Wit  BYRNES, 

Grocers  $  f  ea  Dealers, 

3  Big  Stores 

_ ^mmm^ 

Dryades  Street,  Head  of  Market. 
St.  Andrew  and  Annunciation  Sts. 
Dryades  and  Terpsichore  Sts. 

>s' Phones  841  &  1192. 


The  Celebrated  Fox  River  Creamery  Butter 
Received  Daily   by  Express 


Bread.  « 

Dropped   Corn    Bread. 

One  pint  of  fine  white  corn  meal,  thoroughly  scalded 
with  boiling-  water;  when  cool,  add  two  eggs  well  beaten; 
salt  to  taste,  and  thin  it  with  sufficient  milk  to  make  it 
drop  from  spoon  (say  about  half  a  cup). 

Mrs.  W.  W.  Carre. 

Thomas   Bread. 

One  tumbler  sweet  milk;  two  eggs,  well  beaten;  two 
even  tablespoonsful  sugar;  two  even  tablespoonsful  of  melted 
butter;  flour  until  it  makes  a  stiff  batter;  desertspoonful  of 
Dixie  Baking  Powder.  Mrs.  Alma  S.  Wynn. 

BISCUIT. 

One  quart  of  flour,  one  heaping  tablespoonful  of  lard, 
one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  three  teaspoonfuls  oi  Dixie  baking 
powder  and  sweet  milk  enough  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Sift 
the  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt  together  three  times. 
(Leave  a  little  of  the  flour  in  sifter  for  the  board),  sift  the 
flour  into  the  tray  or  bowl,  then  put  the  spoonful  of  lard  in 
the  centre,  and  mix  with  the  milk,  using  a  large  spoon  and 
stirring  the  dough  as  little  as  possible;  have  the  dough  as 
soft  as  can  be  bandied  or  rolled  out.  Roll  thin  and  cut 
with  biscuit  cutter,  bake  at  once  in  a  very  hot  oven. 

Mrs.  Minnie  M.  Wilkinson. 

Beaten  Biscuit. 

One  quart  of  flour,  one  tablespoonful  of  lard,  one  good 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  sweet  milk  sufficient  to  make  a  stiff 
dough.  Beat  long  and  well,  or  better  still,  roll  through  a 
dough  kneader  until  the  dough  blisters  and  pops. 

Mrs.  W.  H.  LaPrade,  Shreveport,  La. 


WOMANS'     - 


# 


Christian  Temperance 
Union  Restaurant, 

632  Qravier  Street,        ■etwSg£*<)S5X!SS'.  c,mp 


a 


//AK  Meals  served  from  7  a  m.  to  6  p.  m. 

Breakfast  25  Cents.      Dinner  85  Cts. 
Lunch  15  Cents. 


b 


Coffee  a  Specialty,  5  cents  a  Cup. 

Fruits,  Cakes  and  Pies 


L.  S.  WIDNEY  DAVID  ZABLE 

WIDNEY  &ZABLE, 

4716=4718  flagazine  Street,      Above  Valence. 

COAL,  COAK  and   VADH 
WOOD_^>  1  f\t\U9 

HAY,  CORN,  OATS  and  FEED  of  a11  Kin^ 

Families  Supplied  with  the  Celebrated  Snow- 
Hill  Coal  at  market  prices. 

MAIN  OFFICE,  ROOM  314  HENNEN  BUILDING, 
TELEPHONES,       82.     331.     1536. 
Pennsylvania  Coal  Co.,  L.  S.  WIDNEY,  Manager. 


Bread.  9 

Graham    Bread. 

One  cake  compressed  yeast;  three  quarts  of  Graham 
flour;  one  kitchen  spoonful  of  lard;  one  large  cup  of  brown 
sugar;  one  tablespoon  of  salt;  mix  well  the  lard,  sugar  and 
salt  into  the  flour  before  putting  in  your  yeast  which 
should  be  well  dissolved  in  colci  water;  if  set  by  eight  in 
the  morning,  will  be  ready  to  make  into  loaves  by  three  in 
the  afternoon.  Mrs.  H.  J.  Mullen. 

Corn  Meal  Bread. 

One  pint  of  corn  meal;  one  teaspoon  of  salt;  two  large 
tablespoons  of  hot  rice;  one  or  two  eggs,  beat  together; 
pour  on  just  enough  boiling  water  to  make  a  thick  mush; 
form  it  into  a  round  cake  in  a  pie-plate,  being  careful  to 
not  let  it  get  cold;  then  bake  until  there  is  a  good  crust 
bottom  and  top;  don't  use  fine  meal. 

Corn  Meal  Cakes. 

One  pound  of  sugar;  half  pound  butter;  one  nutmeg; 
one  pound  of  meal;  four  eggs;  one  cupful  of  flour;  after 
sifting  the  meal  take  out  a  cupful  of  meal  and  put  into  the 
cupful  of  flour;  beat  up  with  other  ingredients,  and  drop 
from  a  spoon  on  greased  pans  and  cook  in  quick  oven. 

Miss  Mary  Wilkinson. 


W  LIMITED.  @ 


Cor.  Magazine  and  Julia, 

Cor.  Washington  and  Prytania 

'Phone  697. 


Finest  Carrages  for  Hire  for  Balls, 
Parties,  Weddings,  etc. 


Breakfast  and  Tea  Cakes.  11 


I  Breakfast  and  Tea  Cakes.  f 

€€€€€€€€€«€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€€* 


JOHNNY  CAKES. 

Two  cups  of  Indian  meal  in  your  mixing-  dish,  add  one 
pint  of  sour  milk  or  butter-milk,  a  spoonful  of  cream  or 
butter;  beat  well  tog-ether  and  add  a  cup  full  ol  flour,  with 
a  teaspoon  of  soda  sifted  throug-h  it.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven 
and  serve  hot  for  breakfast.  Miss  Mary  Werlein. 

Buckwheat  Cakes. 

Two  cups  buckwheat  flour,  one  cup  wheat  flour,  four 
teaspoons  Dixie  baking-  powder,  one  teaspoon  salt,  one 
tablespoon  sug-ar,  mix  altog-ether  and  add  sufficient  sweet 
milk  or  water  to  make  a  soft  batter.  Bake  on  griddle  at 
once.  Mrs.   S.  F.  G. 

Graham  Gems. 

Three  pints  of  Graham  flour,  one  small  cup  of  brown 
sugar,  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  two  scant  teaspoons  of  Dixie  bak- 
ing- powder,  one  tablespoon  of  lard,  make  dough  much 
softer  than  for  ordinary  biscuits,  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Mrs.  H.  J.  Mullen. 

Rice  Cakes. 

One  cup  cold  boiled  rice,  one  pint  of  flour,  1  teaspoon 
of  salt,  two  eg-gs  well  beaten,  milk  to  make  a  thick  batter. 
Fry —  Mrs.  M.  Walker. 


No  Charge  for  Examining  Teeth. 


Lowest  Charge  for  First-Class  Work 


Dr.  R.  L.  Schroeder, 

Dentist, 


1327  BARONNE  STREET, 


Near  Thalia. 


Gromn  and  Bridge  Work  a  Specialty. 


Up=to-Date  Painless  Methods 


Classical  and 
Commercial  Institute 


H.  S.  CHENET,  Principal. 


H    I526  CarOttdelet  St.,       New  Orleans. 


Spacious,  Comfortable   Buildings  and  Grounds. 


H  Next  Annual  Session 
Begins. 


Sept.  2, 


Breakfast  and  Tea  Cohen .  13 

MUFFINS. 

Two  cups  of  flour,  two  heaping-  teaspoonsful  Dixie  bak- 
ing- powder,  three  heaping-  teaspoonsful  of  sug-ar,  one  table- 
spoonful  butter.  Work  the  butter  well  into  the  mixture 
with  a  spoon,  add  J  of  a  cup  of  cold  water,  and  one  eg-g- 
well  beaten.     Fill  the  moulds  and  bake  in  hot  oven. 

Mrs.   W.  H.   Belt. 

Flannel  Oakes. 

Sift  tog-ether  1£  pints  of  flour,  one  tablespoonful  brown 
sugar,  a  little  salt,  add  two  beaten  eg-g-s,  one  pint  of  miik, 
heat  into  a  smooth  thin  batter.  Bake  on  hot  griddle  to  a 
rich  brown.  Miss  M.   Keen. 

French  Rolls. 

One   quart   flour,  two   ounces   butter,  a  little  salt  well 

rubbed  tog-ether,  one  well  beaten  eg-g-,  \  compressed  yeast 

cake  dissolved  in  luke  warm  milk,  add  as  much  sweet  milk 

as  required  to  make  a  stiff  batter,  beat  well  and  set  to  rise. 

When  lig-ht,  roll  out  thin,  cut  into  g-ems,  brush  edg-es  with 

butter,  fold  them  over,  place  a   little  distance   apart  in   the 

pan.     Let  stand  a  while  to  rise  ag-ain  and  bake. 

Mrs.  Heck. 

Light  Flour  Puffs  for  Breakfast. 

Take  a  tumbler  of  sifted  flour,  a  tumbler  of  milk  and 
two  eg-g-s.  Put  a  spoonful  of  Dixie  yeast  powder  in  the 
flour  before  sifting-,  beat  eg-g-s  (up)  separately.  Mix  to- 
g-ether and  add  a  teaspoonful  of  melted  butter  or  lard  just 
before  baking-  in  little  fancy  pans.  Put  salt  in  the  flour 
with  the  yeast  powder  and  then  bake  as  quickly  as  you 
can.  Mrs.  J.  T.  Sawyer. 


A.  K.  MILLER  &  CO., 

Steamship    A  rrckn+c 
and  Ship     f*g  &**  L*>> 

303  Carondelet  Street,  New  Orleans,  La. 

: AGENTS : 


Cuban  Steamship  Co.,  London  and  New  Orleans,  Glynn  Line, 
La  Flecha  Line,  Serra  Line,  Joseph  Hoult  Line  for  Liver- 
pool, Havre  and  Bremen.     British  and  Foreign 
Marine  Insurance  Co.,  Limited. 

: GENERAL  PASSENGER  AGENTS : 


American  Line,  Red  Star  Line,  Cunard  Line,   White  Star  Line, 

Hamburg- American  Line,     North- German  Lloyd  Line, 

Allen  State  Line,  Netherland-American  Line. 


J.C.florris&Co 


LIMITED 


Nos.  324-330   Tchoupitoulas   Street. 


Wholesale  Dealers  in — Axle  Grease,  Baskets,  Bath  Tubs, 
Baseballs,  Cages,  Chewing'  Gum,  Croquet,  Dusters, 
Enameled  Steelware,  Freezers,  Fishing-  Tackle,  Gal- 
vanized Cleats,  Pulleys,  Rowlocks,  Harmonicas,  Ham- 
mocks, Ice  Chests,  Julip  Straws,  Knives  and  Forks, 
Lanterns,  Lemon  Squeezers,  Marbles,  Night  Tapers, 
Oars,  Oil  Tanks,  Paper,  Pipes,  Rope  Refrigerators, 
Scales,  Shakers,  Soaps,  Tacks,  Tinware  , Traps,  Twines 
Washing-  Machines,  Wring-ers,  Water  Coolers,  Whips, 
Etc.,  Etc. 


Doughnuts,  Cookies,   Ginger  Bread.  15 


I  Doughnuts,  Gookies,  Ginger  Bread  j 


DOUGHNUTS, 


One  cup  sour  milk,  \y2  cups  sug-ar,  one  egg,  one  table- 
spoon melted  lard,  >£  teaspoon  baking  soda,  flavor  to  taste, 
flour  sufficient  to  roll  out;  and  fry  in  hot  lard. 

Mrs.  Alice  M.  Zable. 

GINGERBREAD. 

A  cupful  each  of  sour  cream  and  nice  molasses.  A 
level  teaspoonful  and  a  half  of  soda  a  teaspoonful  each  of 
salt  and  g-ing-er,  add  flour  to  make  a  little  thicker  than 
griddle    cakes.       Bake    in    eight    in    a  sheet. 

Miss  Mary  Werlein. 

Soft  Cookies. 

One  heaping-  cup  butter,  l1/?  cups  sug-ar,  3  eg-gs  beaten 
separately,  3  tablespoons  sour  milk,  1  small  teaspoon  of 
soda,  and  as  little  flour  as  will  make  them  stiff  enoug-h  to 
roll.  Sprinkle  with  sug-ar  and  grated  nutmeg-  before 
cutting-,  pass  over  roller,  cut  and  bake  a  light  brown. 

COOKIES. 

Two  cups  sugar,  1  cup  butter,  f  cup  sweet  milk,  2  eggs, 
5  cups  flour,  2  teaspoons  Dixie  yeast  powder.  Roll  thin  and 
bake  quickly.  Mrs.   S.  F.  G. 


I 

I 

fe 

P  For  Strength.    Comfort 

p  Refinement,  Beauty. 

I  Turkish  Bath  50c, 

Mi  and  attain  flank's  fpp  9,Fir» 


I 


I 

I 

I 

p) 
II 


i 


and  attendant's  fee  25c. 


Skilful  Manicuring.  50c. 
|lfj  Corns  removed,  Bunions,  Ingrowing  Toe-nails. 

If™]  etc.,  corrected,  50c.  to  $2  per  visit. 

=j|.  Sulphur  and  other  Medicated  Bath-,  $1  to  $2. 

Saline  Baths  50c.  or,  with  general  rubbing,  $1. 
Massage  or  Electricity,  50c.  to  $2. 
Engagements  at  residence.  50  per  cent  extra 
Ladies,  9  to  5  p.  m,;  Sundays  till  1  p.  m. 
Gentlemen,  night  and  day. 


Ill    BOURBON,    Near  Canal  St., 

Mr.    and    firs.    OSBORNE,    Proprietors. 


I 
Ipl 


Doughnuts ,  Cookies,  Ginger  Bread.  17 

Graham  Crackers. 

Two  cups  Graham  flour,  1  cnp  white  flour,  \  cup  sugar 
\  cup  butter,  1  egg,  salt  to  taste.     Roll  and  bake  in  a  quick 

Miss  Cocker. 

Soft  Ginger  Bread. 

3  cups  flour,  £  cup  milk,  £  cup  lard,  £  cup  New  Orleans 
molasses,  1  teaspoonful  soda,  2  eggs,  1  teaspoonful  of  gin- 
ger. Beat  the  yolk  of  the  eggs  and  the  lard  together, 
then  add  the  milk,  soda,  molasses,  ginger  and  flour,  then 
beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth  and  add  them  carefully. 
Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  J  of  an  hour. 


Miss  Cocker. 


Thin  Rich  Cookies. 


1  cup  butter,  1  cup  sugar,  3  eggs,  all  beaten  together 
to  a  cream,  use  just  enough  flour  to  mix  and  roll  thin. 

Mrs.  S.  F.  G. 

Good  Cookies. 

2  cups  of  sugar,  1  cup  of  butter,  3  cups  of  flour,  L  cup 
of  sour  cream  or  milk,  3  eggs,  1  teaspoon  of  soda.  Mix 
soft,  roll  thin,  sift  granulated  sugar  over  them,  and  gently 

ro11  lt  in"  Mrs.  P.  R.  Baldwin,  Biloxi,  Miss. 


Dto  A  Go  BOWMAN, 


Every  body  says  the  last  place  on  Earth  they  want  to  go  to  is  to 
a  dentist's  office,  Now  while  this  may  be  true  in  general,  we 
have  heard  it  said  and  we  belive  it  true,  that  it  is  possible  to 
derive  pleasure  from  such  a  source.  There  is  in  the  Henneu 
Building,  (5th  floor)  an  office  recently  fitted  up  in  splendid 
style  and  presided  over  by  as  gentle  and  courteous  a  gentle- 
man as  one  would  care  to  meet,  Dr.  A.  G.  Bowman.  Dr. 
Bowman  is  a  skilled  Dentist  and  if  you  once  try  him, 
you   will  be  satisfied.  —    i— « 


e.CHA-RTWELL, 

&ds  and S/ecfric  Light  Fixture*, 
dJlcdern  Sanitary  Plumbing, 
JHc  i  l&a  fer   fie  a  tit  i  q . 

Agent  for  the  Improved  Welsbach  Light 

No.  213  Baronne  Street, 
Telephone  No.  44.  NEW  ORLEANS, 


R.  A.  FOX,  Pres. 


E.  D.  ELLIS,  Secy  &  Treas. 


wiss  J|team  JL>aun(lry  C°-> 

1010    GRAVIER    STREET, 


^TELEPHONE     218 


To  the  Ladies: 


After  preparing  some  of  the  palatable  dishes 
from  receipts  in  this  pamphlet  be  sure  and  send 
your  Husbands  Shirts,  Collars  and  Cuffs  to  the 
Swiss  Steam  Laundry,  they  will  laundry  them  in 
first  class  style,  put  on  new  neck  and  wrist-bands 
and  all  necessary  repairs  free  of  charge. 


w.  t.  pierce,      nDiranisT 


5250  MAGAZINE  STREET,  NEW  ORLEANS,  LA, 


Soups.  19 

S 1  •»*■  m^  '^  ^  ^  ^  ^  ^  ^  -*■•  •*£•  *& 1"  i  '<* 

I     SOUPS.     1 


Cream  of  Tomato  Soup. 

One  pint  can  of  tomatoes,  one  pint  of  fresh  sweet  milk, 
half  teaspoon  of  soda,  one  spoon  butter,  two  tablespoons 
of  rolled  cracker  crumbs.  Place  over  fire  the  tomatoes  and 
stew  till  soft,  add  soda  and  stir  till  effervescence  ceases. 
Strain  it  so  no  seeds  remain,  set  over  the  fire  ag-ain  and  add 
a  pint  of  hot  milk,  season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  put  in 
the  cracker  crumbs.     Serve  very  hot. 

Green  Pea  Soup. 

One  pint  of  sweet  milk,  one  spoon  of  butter,  two  table- 
spoons of  rolled  cracker  crumbs.  Place  over  the  fire  the 
peas  in  a  little  water  and  stew  till  soft,  add  the  hot  milk 
and  butter  with  a  small  spoonful  of  sugar  or  condensed 
milk,  season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  put    in    the    cracker 

crumbs  and  serve.  ,T  .      ~    T>r. 

Mrs.  A.  C.  King. 

Vermicelli   Soup. 

One  pound  vermicelli  boiled  half  hour,  salt  and  pepper 
to  taste,  add  as  much  water  as  needed.  Beat  the  yolk  of 
one  eg-g-  well,  and  stir  in  as  the  soup  is  poured  up. 

Mrs.   Lucie  Menarp. 


The  nearer  the  Producer  and  Consumer  can  be  brought  together  the  better  for  all  concerned. 

THE  GREAT 
Atlantic\iPacificTeaCo. 

Importers,  Coffee  Roasters, 
Manufacturers   and  Retailers. 

HEADQUARTERS,    938  CANAL  ST.,  Cor.  University  Place. 

1616  DRYADES  STREET.  2033  MAGAZINE  STREET, 

3104  MAGAZINE  STREET,  POYDRAS  MARKET. 

NEW  ORFEANS,  LA.-— 

COFFEES  at  all   prices,    10,    124,    15,    20,    25,    30. 
TEAS  at  all   prices,      30,     40,    50,    60,    80. 

) TELEPHONE    701. ( 

"My  Joy  Dairy  and  Poultry  Farm" 


Poultry  of  all  kinds, 

CihFresh  Milk  and   Cream  Cheesekiy 

yf.  Always  on  hand.  TK 

Mr  A.  F.  WALL1S.  ProprietorMr 


DELAYS  ARE  DANGEROUS. 

Insure  your  Dwelling-house  or  Furniture  and 
Wearing  apparel  through  the  Pescud  Agency. 
Ladies  wishing  information  in  regard  to  cost  of 
Insurance  can  get  it  by  calling  in  person  or  by 
addressing  a  Postal  Card  or  Letter  to  the  Agency. 
Insurance  placed  at  lowest  current  rates  for  one, 
three  or  five  years. 

PETER  F.  PESCUD,  No.  818  Gravier  Street. 


Soups.  .21 

Beef  Soup. 

Take  a  ten  cents  brisket  or  soup  bone,  put  it  into  a  pot 
of  water  and  let  boil  during-  breakfast.  When  it  is  time  to 
start  dinner,  cut  or  chop  up  one  turnip,  one  carrot,  one 
onion,  a  few  sprig's  of  parsley  and  chillots,  and  add  to 
soup.  Just  before  serving-,  thicken  it  with  tablespoon  of 
flour    mixed    with    water,    season    to    taste  with    salt    and 

Miss  Mary  Wilkinson. 


Oyster   Soup. 

Put  the  liquor  which  drains  from  3  dozen  oysters  into 
a  marbleized  sauce  pan.  Let  it  heat  and  skim  thoroug-hly, 
then  add  a  teaspoon  of  finely  chopped  onions  and  parsley, 
a  sprig-  of  thyme,  also  a  heaping-  tablespoon  of  butter, 
mixed  with  a  teaspoon  of  flour,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste, 
add  ]/2  dozen  cloves  and  spice.  Put  in  oysters  last,  let 
ting-  them  boil  two  minutes.  Have  warm,  a  pint  of  fresh 
milk,  which  add  just  before  dishing-. 

Mrs.   S.   S.   Keener. 


Mock  Turtle  Soup. 

1  larg-e  spoon  of  lard,  1  of  flour  browned  together,  add 
1  pound  of  beef  chopped  small,  %  can  tomatoes,  6  whole 
alspice,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  add  3  quarts  water  and 
simmer  until  beef  is  tender.  Chop  2  hard  boiled  eg-g-s  in 
the  tureen,  pour  soup  on,  squeeze  in  the  juice  of  half  a 
lemon,  and  slice  in  the  other  half.         Mr§   q    p    Wqrk 


I 


4866  HagazineSt., 

NEW   ORLEANS. 


DEALER     IN 

DRUGS,  HEDICINES,  CHEHICALS, 

Fancy  and  Toilet  Articles,  Sponges,  Brushes,  Perfumery,  Etc. 

Physicians'  Prescriptions  Carefully   Compounded,   and    orders  answered 

with  care  and  dispatch.      Our  Stock  of  Medicine  is  complete,  and 

warranted  genuine  and  of  the  best  quality. 

JOHN  A.  WOODVILLE, 
Attorney  and  Counsellor=at-Law, 

No.  I36  CARONDELET  STREET, 

Between  Canal  and  Common  Street,        -                                NEW  ORLEANS,  LA. 
o TELEPHONE    1408 o 

If  &RTIJEC  J.  CUI&, 


.Dealer  in  Fancy  and  Staple. 


Groceries, 


TUESDAYS 


ARE 


BARGAIN    DAYS. 


Nos.  3201  to  3203  Magazine,  and  Nos.  1100  to  1114  Harmony  St. 
Telephone  1435.       New  Orleans,  La. 


n 


Successors  to  FKANTZ  &  OPITZ, 


Watches,  Clocks, 
Diamonds, 
Jewelry  Silver- 
•    Ware,  Novelties, 
At  Reasonable  Prices, 


129  Bourbon  St 

NEAR  CANAL. 


Jewelers. 


Soups.  23 

Apple  Soup. 

Peel  and  core  six  apples,  cut  them  up  and  boil  them 
well  in  8  cups  of  water,  boil  till  tender,  strain  throug-h  a 
colender;  return  to  pot,  boil  up  ag-ain  with  a  little  cinna- 
mon bark,  a  piece  of  lemon  peeling-  and  sug-ar  to  taste,  and 
a  tiny  bit  of  salt  and  serve  either  hot  or  cold. 

Prune  Soup. 

\  pound  of  prunes,  wash  them  well,  add  8  cups  of  water 
and  boil,  add  a  piece  of  cinnamon,  lemon  peeling-,  when  it 
beg-ins  to  boil,  1  tablespoon  sag-o  and  sug-ar  to  taste,  boil 
altog-ether  one  hour.     Serve  either  hot  or  cold. 

Milk  Soup. 

Add  to  4  cups  of  milk,  2  cups  of  water,  a  small  piece  of 
cinnamon,  a  piece  of  lemon  peeling-,  a  teaspoonf  ul  of  but- 
ter. When  boiling-  add  a  little  salt  and  a  tablespoonful  of 
sag-o,  boil  until  clear. 

Blackberry  Soup. 

Take  2  cups  of  berries,  and  boil  with  8  cups  of  water 
at  least  half  an  hour.  Strain  and  return  the  juice  to  the 
fire.  When  boiling-  add  a  tablespoonful  of  sag-o,  a  piece  of 
lemon  peeling-  and  cinnamon  and  sug-ar  to  taste. 

Mrs.   J.   Cohen. 


JAMES  H.  AITKEN  ROBERT  AITKEN 

Jas.  H.  Aitken  &  Co., 

PLUMBERS, 

Steam  -«*  Gas  Fitters, 

Bath  Tubs.  Lavatories  and  Water  Closets. 
Chandeliers,  Brackets  and  Globes 

510  CAMP  STREET 


TELEPHONE   ©<35 

NEW  ORLEANS,  LA. 


GEO.   M.   I^E^AHY, 

c^cyapkresBsTDhd  Wood  Mantels, 

Mahogany  ' 

flarbleized  Slate  Hantels, 

Marble  and  Tile  Wainscoting,  Embossed,  Enameled  and  Floor  Tiles 
Bronze,  Brass,  Nickel  and  Enameled  Grates.  Slate  Hearths,  Fire 
Bricks — ^ 

No.  512  CAflP  STREET,  Telephone  751.  New  Orleans. 

o TELEPHONE  No    509 o 

House  Bills  and  Special  Orders  Sawed  and  Delivered  Promptly. 


Main    Office  and   Mills, 

Madisonville,    La. 


W.  T.  Jay, 

Lumber. 


Office  and  Yards — 
2324  Howard  Av.  Cor.  Freret 
H.  C.  GAUSE,  Agent, 
New  Orleans. 


ESTABLISHED  1817. 


A.  B.  GRISWOLD&CO., 


No.  728   CANAL  STREET,  New  Orleans,  La. 


Soups.  25 

Simple  Tomato  Soup. 

Add  to  1  pint  of  tomatoes,  1  pint  of  water,  a  bay  leaf, 

%  teaspoon  of  celery  seed;    rub  together  2  tablespoons    of 

butter  and  2  of  flour,  stir  in  the   first  mixture  and  cook  for 

5  minutes,  strain,  reheat  and  serve. 

Mrs.  F.  A.  Dicks. 

Oyster   Gumbo   Fele. 

Take   four   dozen   oysters   and   strain    off   the    liquor 

through  a  seive.     Then    take   one    tablespoonful    of    lard, 

one  of  flour  and  mince,  one  small  onion  very  fine.     Put  the 

lard  in  pan  and  when  hot  add  the  flour  and  onion,  and  fry 

very  brown,  then  fry  the  oysters  for  two  or  three  minutes. 

Put  your  liquor   on,    and    boil    and    skim,    adding-    enough 

water  to  make  the  quantity  of  soup  required.     Add  parsley, 

red  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.     Then  put  in  the  oysters,  and 

when  it  comes  to  a  boil,    mix  one  heaping    teaspoonful    of 

Fel6  in  a  little  cold  water.       Let    it  cook  two  minutes  and 

send  to  the  table.  ,,        0    TT 

Mrs.  S.  Henderson. 

Chicken  Gumbo. 

Fry  to  a  light  brown  a  small  sized  chicken,  then  add  to 
it  a  medium  sized  onion  and  fry.  Add  a  tablespoon  of  flour 
and  brown  all  together,  then  add  a  pint  of  boiling  water. 
Have  ready  a  quart  of  tender  okra  that  has  been  cut  up  in 
thin  cross-wise  slices,  put  in  the  okra  and  two  large  toma- 
toes that  have  been  peeled,  and  let  all  cook  for  one  hour  or 
more.  When  nearly  done  add  corn  cut  from  two  ears.  Salt 
and  red  pepper  to  suit  the  taste. 

TCHOUPITOULAS  MISSION. 


26  Soups. 

GUMBO. 

Take  a  piece  of  veal,  fry  brown;    also   small    pieces  of 

ham;  fry  green  okra  until  ropy;  mix  altogether  with  a  can 

of  tomatoes  and  put  into  a  four    quart    sauce    pan    or    pot 

with    two   or    three    pints   of   water;  cook  slowly;  adding 

water   gradually    to  get    the   required   consistency.       Pick 

shrimp  and  put  in  while  cooking-.       Season    with    salt  and 

(liberally)  red  pepper. 

Miss  R.  Caywood. 


"Remember   the   Location/' 

A  first-class  Prescription   Drug  Store. 
Soda  Water  the  very  best  with  Fruit 

Syrups.  "■— t" 

..DRUGGIST.. 

Magazine  and  Louisiana  Ave.  Telephone  Call  950. 


Crab  Gumbo. 

1  can  of  tomatoes,  1  dozen  okra,  1  onion  cut  fine,  1 
tablespoonful  of  lard.  Into  the  hot  lard,  sift  2  tablespoons- 
ful  of  flour,  stir  until  brown.  Then  put  in  the  tomatoes, 
okra  and  onion;  to  this  add  about  1  quart  and  a  half  of 
boiling  water;  let  cook  until  done.  Put  1  dozen  crabs  in 
boiling  water,  then  remove  the  top  shell,  and  clean  thor- 
oughly, put  into  the  gumbo,  and  let  boil  15  or  20  minutes. 

Mrs.  Pierce. 


Oysters  and  Crabs.  27 


|OystersandCrabs| 


Stuffed   Oysters. 

4  dozen  small  oysters,  24  soda  crackers  soaked  in  the 
liquor  of  the  oysters.  Chop  oysters  fine  and  season  with 
onion,  thyme,  parsley,  etc.  Have  skillet  hot,  take  one 
larg-e  spoon  of  lard,  and  put  the  mixture  in  skillet.  Add 
2  well  beaten  eg-g-s  and  1  larg-e  spoon  of  butter.  Cook  until 
done.  Have  ready  1  dozen  shells;  fill  with  mixture,  sprin- 
kle with  cracker  dust.     Put  in  oven  and  brown. 

Mrs.  C.  V.  Unsworth. 

Scollopped    Oysters. 

J  cup  butter,  1  cup  cracker  crumbs,  1  dozen  oysters, 
pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  mix  butter  and  cracker  crumbs 
tog-ether,  sprinkle  \  of  the  crumbs  in  a  bowl,  then  £  of  the 
oysters,  seasoned,  then  add  rest  of  crumbs,  then  the  oys- 
ters and  bake.  Mrs.   A.   F.  G. 

Stuffed  Crabs. 

Boil  your  hard  crabs  and  take  out  the  meat.  Put  a  lit- 
tle lard  in  a  frying-  pan  to  which  add  soaked  bread  and 
chopped  onions.  After  cooking-  a  little  take  it  up  and  add 
an  eg-g-,  butter,  salt  and  pepper.  Clean  the  shells  and  fill 
them  with  the  mixture  and  put  some  bread  crumbs  or 
crackers  over  the  top  and  brown  in  a  hot  oven. 

Mrs.  H.  Haag. 


J.  Thomson.  G.  Thomson.  W.  B.  Thomson. 

J.  THOMSON  &  BROS., 


.IMPORTERS  AND  DEALERS  IN.... 


Carriage  and  Wagon  Makers  Material, 

AND  MANUFACTURERS  OF 

Light  Carriages  $  Spring  Wagons, 

^Telephone  No.  203^ 
225  to  233  S.  RAMPART  STREET, 

Bet.  Common  and  Gravier,  NEW  ORLEANS,  LA. 

Smith's  Bakery 

3017  MAGAZINE  STREET. 

Assorted  Fancy  Cakes  of  the  very  best 
quality  and  at  reasonable  rates. 

Ice  Cream  of  all  grades,  but  our  best 
quality  we  supply  to  families  and  par- 
ties at  $1.25  per  gallon. 

Our  Bread  is  second  to  none  and  cheapest 
on  the  market. 

Wedding  Cakes  a  Specialty. 


Oysters  and  Grabs  29 

Fabacher  Oyster  Patties. 

First  boil  the  oysters  and  set  to  one  side.  Cut  green 
onions  and  brown  well  with  butter  and#  a  tablespoonful  of 
flour.  When  well  stirred  tog-ether,  add  a  pint  of  oyster 
water  and  the  yolks  of  3  egg-s,  £  lemon.  Season  to  taste 
with  salt  and  peper.  Add  oysters  and  stew  all  together 
one-half  hour.       Then  put  the  tricassee  into  patties. 

SHELLS. 

Roll  out  a  nice  puff  paste  thin;  cut  out  with  a  g-lass  or 

cookey-cutter,  and  with  a  wine  glass  or  smaller  cutter,  cut 

out  the  centre  of  two  out  of  three;  lay  the  rings  thus  made 

on  the  third  and  bake  at  once.     If    the  cutters    are    dipped 

in  hot  water,  the  edg-es  of  the  patties  will  rise  much  higher 

and  smoother  when  baking-. 

Mrs.  Alma  S.  Wynn. 


Fried  Hard  Shell  Crabs. 

Take  six  crabs  and  scald    them   to  kill    them.      Then 

clean,    break    the    ends   of    the    claws,    salt     and    pepper. 

Crush  the  hard  shell  a  little,  roll  in  corn  meal,  or  in  beaten 

eg-g-,  then  roll  in  flour  or  meal,   and  fry  in  hot  grease  until 

brown  on  both  sides.  _  T 

Miss  Carrie  Levy. 

Oyster   Patties. 

Line  a  small  patty  pan  with  puff  paste,  and  bake  a 
lig-ht  brown;  when  done,  fill  with  oysters  already  stewed. 
The  patties  should  be  served  and  eaten  as  soon  as  prepared 

Mrs.  Oliver. 


patent  Medicines  at  Cut-Prices. 

WILLIAM  G.  NAPP,  PHARMA  CIST, 

Cor.   PERRIER  and  ROBERT   STS., 

One  square  above  Prytania  Market,  6th  District. 


Our  stock  of  Drugs  and  Chemicals  are  always  fresh  and  pure.  Try  our 
Flavoring  Extracts.  No  substitution  practiced.  Prescriptions  com- 
pounded with  care  at  all  hours.     WVVe  meet  honest  competition. 


SPECTACLES,  OCULISTS' 

EYE  GLASSES  PRESCRIPTIONS 

•  •and..  FILLED. 

LORGNETTES. 


G.  F.  BOWLES, 

HenBueiidi„S;.        209  Caronde/et  Street,         NEW  ORLEANS. 


Optician, 


Billington's  Lightning  Liniment! 


The  Best  Ache-Curer! 
Pain  Soother!! 
Rheumatic  Reliever ! ! ! 


All  Druggists,  10  &  25c. 

Circulars  free. 

Agents  wanted  everywhere. 


J.  W.  BILLINGTON, 

Magazine  and  Joseph  Sts.        NEW  ORLEANS,  LA. 


Established  1860 New  York  Office.  314  Broadway. 

The  H.  &  D.  FOLSOM  ARMS  CO., 

Manufacturers  and  Importers  of 

Guns,  Revolvers #  Ammunition, 

BICYCLES  AND  SPORTING  GOODS, 
^113  and  115  DECATUR  STREET,^ 

rsl«^>iv    Orleans.    L^ei- 


Oysters  and  Crabs  31 

Oyster  Toast. 

A  nice  little  dish  for  a  luncheon  or  late  supper.     Scald 

a  quart  of  oysters  in  their  own   liquor,    take    them  out  and 

pound  or  chop  them  to  a  paste;  add  a  little    cream  or  fresh 

butter,  and  some  pepper    and    salt.       Get    ready  some  thin 

slices  of   toast   moistened    with    boiling-  water;  and  spread 

with  fresh  butter;  then   spread    over    the    butter  the  oyster 

paste.     Put  a  thin  slice  of  fresh   cut    lemon    on  each  piece, 

and  lay  parsley  on  the  platter.     Serve    this    hot   or   it   will 

not  be  grood.  _.         _    _     „ 

Mrs    J.  T.  Sawyer, 

Oyster  Pie. 

Three  dozen  oysters,  1  tablespoonful  of  butter,  1  tea- 
spoonful  of  flour,  1  onion,  a  little  parsley,  salt  and  pepper. 
Brown  the  flour,  fry  the  onion  and  add  the  oyster  liquor, 
salt,  pepper,  parsley,  and  last,  the  oysters.  Cook  a  few 
minutes  and  put  into  a  larg-e  baking-  pan  into  which  has 
been  put  a  short  pie  crust.  Put  another  crust  on  top  and 
bake,  French  Cook. 

Stuffed  Crabs. 

Boil  1  dozen  crabs  for  about  twenty  minutes,  pick  the 
meat  from  the  shells.  Take  1  larg-e  onion  and  fry  in  hot 
lard  until  soft.  Soak  some  stale  bread  and  squeeze  tight, 
add  a  cupful  of  the  bread,  2  eg-gs,  pepper  and  salt,  chop 
parsley;  now  take  from  the  fire  and  add  the  crab-meat, 
mix  well,  have  the  shells  washed  and  dried  and  fill  with 
the  stuffing-.  Sprinkle  toasted  bread  crumbs  on  top  of 
each  one,  and  put  them  in  the  oven  and  bake  about  ten 
minutes.  Mrs.  Briggs- 


32 


Oysters  and  Crabs 


Fried  Oysters. 

A  LA  BATTLESHIP  MAINE. 

Take  large  oysters  from  their  own  liquor  put  into  a 
thickly  folded  napkin  to  dry  them;  then  make  hot  an  ounce 
each  of  butter  and  lard  in  a  thick  bottomed  frying-  pan. 
Season  the  oysters  with  pepper  and  salt,  then  dip  each  one 
into  egg  and  cracker  crumbs  railed  fine,  until  it  will  take  up 
no  more.  Place  them  in  the  hot  grease  and  fry  them  a  deli- 
cate brown,  turning  them  on  both  sides  by  sliding  a  broad 
bladed  knife  under  them.     Serve  crisp  and  hot. 

Mrs.  A.  C.  King. 


Fish  33 

Ufa.  jrife  Aulk  .nflhr  .irffci  Ac.  mlflk  .wttr.  atk  jAc  .irfk  .irfk  jflfc.  ..irfflk  4k  ^K 
ftf.r-ii.gir  apt  sqgpc  Jqpnqp  V  ^pr^r^p  v  J^'jyr^gr  -^  V  qg 


"Master,  I  marvel  how  the  fishes  live  in  the  sea! 
Why  as  men  do  a'land;  the  great  ones  eat  up  the  little  ones  " 

To  test  fish  when  cooking-,  pass  a  knife  along-  a  bone 
and  if  it  is  done,  the  fish  will  separate  easily.  Remove  the 
moment  it  is  done,  or  it  will  become  insipid.  In  boiling-  a 
fish  always  plung-e  it  into  boiling-  water  and  then  set  where 
it  will  simmer  g-ently  until  done.  Garnishes  tor  fish  are 
parsley,  sliced  beets  and  lemon. 

COURTBOUILLION. 

Take  sliced  red  fish  or  snapper.  Fry  each  piece  brown, 
make  a  brown  gravy  with  flour,  tomatoes,  bay-leaves,  a 
slice  of  lemon,  some  spice.  Cook  the  fried  fish  for  half  an 
hour  in  the  gravy  and  serve.  Miss  R.  Caywood. 

Baked  Red  Fish. 

For  one  large  fish,  take  1  cup  water  and  1  can  toma- 
toes, bay  leaves,  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  salt  and  pepper  to 
suit  taste  and  baste  well  while  baking. 

Mrs.  H.  W.  Knickerbocker. 

To  Fry  Fresh  Herring. 

Remove  scales,  clean,  wash  and  dry;  after  salting  them 
put  in  a  dish  with  beaten  eggs,  turn  in  powdered  toast  and 
fry  in  butter  till  brown.  Mrs.  J.  B.  A.  Ahrens. 


34  Fish. 

Boiled  Fish. 

Clean  thoroughly  a  large  red  fish  or  sheephead.  Put 
into  a  pot  of  boiling  water,  1  large  onion,  1  large  head  of 
garlic,  2  large  carrots,  1  lemon  sliced  fine,  bay  leaves,  cel- 
ery, parsley  (stems  and  leaves)  salt  and  pepper,  boil  until 
all  the  vegetables  are  soft  enough  to  mash  with  the  potato 
masher.  When  the  water  is  well  seasoned  with  the  vege- 
tables, tie  the  fish  in  a  towel  and  place  in  the  boiling  water 

and  let  boil  for  half  an  hour.    When  done  set  aside  (in  the 
water)  to  cool.     Serve  cold  with  a  boiled  sauce. 

SAUCE. 

Boil  2  eggs  hard,  rub  the  yolks  fine  with  2  tablespoons 
of  sweet  oil,  using  drop  by  drop.  Take  the  white  of  the 
eggs,  chop  fine  with  parsley,  green  onions,  olives,  mix  all 
together  with  a  tablespoon  of  capers  sauce,  vinegar,  pep- 
per and  salt.  Put  your  fish  on  a  platter,  garnish  with 
crisp  lettuce  leaves,  on  which  are  thin  slices  of  lemon  and 
radishes.     Pour  your  gravy  over  it  and  serve  very  cold. 

Mrs.  D.  Rosenbaum. 


Trout  a  la  Veiiitiemie. 

After  well-cleaning  your  trout,  make  slashes  in  the 
back  and  insert  butter  rolled  in  parsley,  lemon,  thyme, 
basil,  chives,  all  minced  very  fine;  pour  some  salad  oil  over 
it,  and  let  it  lie  for  half  an  hour,  cover  it  with  bread 
crumbs  and  chopped  sweet  herbs,  boil  it  over  a  clear  fire 
which  is  not  too  quick,  and  serve  it  wUh  sauce. 

Mrs.  J.  T.  Sawyer. 


Fish.  35 

Lemon  Sauce  for  Fish. 

To  half  a  pint  of  butter  sauce,  add  the  juice  of  a  lemon 
and  another  lemon  sliced;  take  out  the  seeds,  and  let  aU 
boil  tog-ether.  This  is  good  with  broiled  Spanish  mackerel 
or  pompano,  also  with  broiled  fish. 

Mrs.  J.  T,  Sawyer. 

Egg  Sauce  With  Lemon. 

Boil  six  eggs;  when  cold,  take  off  the  shells,  and  slice 
them  into  a  cup  of  melted  butter;  add  pepper  and  salt,  and 
stir  constantly  while  heating.  Add  the  juice  of  a  lemon 
or  vinegar,  or  catsup,  as  preferred.  This  sauce  is  equally 
g*ood  for  broiled  fish  or  poultry. 

Mrs.  J.  T.  Sawyer. 


36  Meats  and  Folds. 

[  Meats -Fowls] 


Boiled  Meats  should  be  put  into  boiling-  water  at  the 
beginning  to  preserve  its  juices.  Keep  the  water  boiling 
constantly  or  the  meat  will  soak  up  the  water.  Remove 
meat  from  water  as  soon  as  done. 

Science  of  Baking  or  Roasting  Beef. 

Put  your  beef  in  a  very  hot  oven    at  first,  keeping  the 

temperature  at  300°  or  more  for  half  an  hour,   then  reduce 

the  heat  for  the  remainer  of   the   time   to  200°.     Baste  the 

meat  every  15  minutes.     The  great  heat  at  first  hardens  as 

well  as  browns  the  outer  surface,  this  keeps  in    the  juice. 

But  if  the  high  temperature   is   kept   up   the  roast  will  be 

hard  and  dry  all  throug-h    instead  of   rare   and  juicy   as  it 

should  be.  ■ 

Mrs.  Buchell. 

How  to  Flavor  a  Tenderloin  Steak. 

To  assure  a  delicious  steak  broil  a  tenderloin  and  at  the 
same  time  small  bits  of  .round  steak  which  contains  a  great 
deal  of  well  flavored  juice.  Cut  the  round  steak  into  small 
bits  and  squeeze  in  a  lemon  squeezer  over  the  tenderloin. 
By  this  method  you  get  a  delicious  juicy  steak. 

Mrs.  Bucheix. 


Meats  and  Fowls.  37 

Steak  Roll. 

Beat  the  steak  well,  make  a  dressing"  of  bread  crumbs, 
pepper,  salt,  onions,  sage  and  celery,  fry  it  a  little,  then 
put  it  on  the  steak  and  roll  up  and   tie,    put   in   oven   and 

Mrs    Minnie  Wilkinson. 

Roast  Beef  and  Yorkshire  Pudding. 

Rub  a  rib  roast  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  if  not  very 
fat,  put  in  pieces  of  beef  suet.  On  top  and  around  in  pan 
place  pieces  of  suet,  and  with  these  drippings  baste  every 
ten  minutes.  Add  no  water  at  all.  For  rare  beef,  allow 
15  minutes  to  the  pound;  well  done,  20  minutes.  With- 
in twenty  minutes  of  serving-  remove  roast,  pour  all  the 
drippings  into  a  can  for  future  use  except  about  two  table- 
spoonsful  and  into  this  pour  the  pudding-,  made  as  follows: 
3  egg's  well  beaten  together,  to  this  add  a  pint  of  sweet 
milk,  3  rounded  tablespoons  of  flour  measured  before  sift- 
ing, and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Cook  until  set.  Cut  in 
squares  and  serve  around  roast.  This  is  the  real  old  En- 
glish roast-beef,  and  if  basted  properly,    is   very  delicious. 

Mrs.  Florence  E.  Russ. 

Broiled  Beef  Steak. 

Flatten  it  with  the  broad  side  of  a  hatchet  and  broil 
upon  a  buttered  grid-iron  over  a  g-ood  strong-  fire;  lay  it 
upon  a  hot  dish;  season  with  pepper,  salt  a  large  spoon  of 
butter  and  some  finely  chopped  parsley.    Serve  at  once.   :JJ§ 

Mrs.  Briggs. 


38  Meats  and  Fowls. 

Cold  Daube. 

8  pounds  good  roast,  1  pound  fresh  fat  pork,  4  pigs 
feet,  4  calves  feet,  2  beeves  feet.  Put  in  pan  over  night 
cover  with  vinegar  and  let  soak.  Cut  the  pork  in 
thin  slices.  Next  morning,  put  red  pepper  in  the  slices  of 
the  pork,  cut  slits  in  the  pork  and  slip  in  the  peppers  ; 
cover  with  water  and  boil  slowly  until  boiled  down  and 
thoroughly  cooked.  Cook  the  calves  and  pigs  feet  separate- 
ly, (remove  all  the  bones)  all  to  pieces  and  stir  altogether 
while  warm.     Cool  rapidly  in  a  pan  or  dish  from    which  it 

can  be  turned  out  whole.  _,         _    _    _ 

Mrs.  B.  S.  Story. 

Virginia  Brunswick  Stew. 

3  gallons  water,  to  which  add  two  chickens  cut  small, 
1  pound  fat  bacon  cut  small.  When  the  chickens  are  suffi- 
ciently cooked,  remove  the  meat  from  the  bones  and  return 
to  the  water,  then  add  |  gallon  Irish  potatoes,  boiled  and 
mashed,  1£  pints  green  corn  cut  fine,  1  pint  butter  beans, 
1  quart  tomatoes  peeled,  add  onions  if  liked,  pepper,  salt 
and  butter.  When  nearly  done  add  one  small  loaf  of  bread. 
When  it  begins  to  thicken  stir  constantly  until  done,  if  too 
thick  add  more  water.  When  properly  made  no  one  can 
detect  any  of  the  ingredients.  Q 

i_/.    o«    r  ARKER  • 

Meat  Balls. 

Chop  fine  whatever   cold  meat   you  have,  fat  and   lean 

together;  pepper  and  salt   it.    1   chopped  onion,   2  slices  of 

bread    which  have  been  soaked    in   milk,     1  egg,    mix  all 

together  well.     Bake  in  a  form.  ._        __    _ 

Mrs.  M.  Walker. 


Meats  and  Fowls.  39 

DAUBE 

Take  four  or  five  pounds  of  beef  (off  the  round),  poke 

holes    in    it,    push    small  bits  of  pork  fat  and  garlic    into 

the  gashes.     Have    the  lard   boiling-    hot,    put    in   the  beef 

and  brown  on  both  sides.     Take    out  of  the  pot  and  brown 

flour  and  onions;   add   a  pint    of  boiling-   water,  tomatoes, 

garlic,  spices.     Put  the  beef  in  the    pot  and  simmer  slowly 

for  three  hours.  .,       ^    » 

Miss  R.  Caywood. 

Thorough  mastication  is  important  to  accomplish  this, 
the  teeth  should  be  in  good  condition.  Good  Fillings 
$1.00  up,  inserted  without  pain. 

Boston  Dental  Co., 
St.  Charles  avenue  corner  Washington. 

DRY  HASH. 

Chop  either  soup  meat  or  cold  steak  very  fine,  removing 
all  fat  and  gristle.  Boil  and  mash  3  or  4  potatoes,  mix 
meat  and  potatoes.  Have  ready  onion  chopped  fine  and 
fried  in  butter,  mix  with  meat  and  potatoes.  Make  into 
small  cakes  after  seasoning  with  salt  and  pepper.  Fry 
in  hot  lard  very  brown. 

French  Hash. 

Cold  soup-meat  chopped  fine,  with  onion,  pepper  and 
salt.  Then  put  mashed  potatoes  about  a  half  an  inch  in 
baking  pan,  then  the  chopped  meat,  well  buttered,  and  so 
on  until  it  is  all  in;  being  careful  to  have  the  last  layer 
potatoes.  Spread  butter  over  the  top,  and  put  it  in  the 
oven  to  brown.  Mrs.  Pierce. 


40  Meats  and  Fowls. 


Remnants  of  Soup  Meat  with  Onions. 

Cut  the  meat  in  thin  slices,  saturate  with  salt  water, 
add  to  the  butter  or  lard  a  few  well  chopped  onions.  When 
they  are  brown  put  in  the  meat,  cover  the  pan.  Turn  the 
meat  after  frying- a  while;  when  both  sides  are  brown  re- 
move. Add  to  the  lard  a  small  quantity  of  water  and  flour 
when  a  thick  sauce,  put  over  the  meat  and  serve  while  hot. 

Beefsteak. 

When  the  pan  is  very  hot  moisten  it  with  butter.  Put 
jn  the  steak  and  let  fry  three  or  four  minutes.  Remove  to 
a  hot  dish  add  necessary  salt  and  pepper.  Saturate  both 
sides  with  butter,  and  serve  while  warm. 

Mrs.  J.   B.   A.  Ahrens. 


Chile  Con  Carne. 

Take  a  pint  of  cold  meat,  any  kind,  or  odds  and  ends 
of  several  kinds  can  be  used,  cut  it  into  bits  a  little  longer 
than  the  end  of  your  finger,  add  a  chopped  onion,  x4  pint 
of  left  over  gravy,  a  cupful  of  tomatoes,  stew  gently  half 
an  hour.  About  five  minutes  before  taking-  off  the  fire,  stir 
in  a  saltspoonful  of  salt  and  a  dessertspoonful  of  ground 
Chile  pepper. 


Meats  mid  Fowls.  41 

Fried  Chicken  with  Cream  Gravy. 

1  young-  chicken  cut  in  small  pieces;  put  1  large  kitchen 
spoon  of  lard  in  a  frying-  pan  and  let  it  get  very  hot,  salt 
and  pepper  the  chicken  and  roll  each  piece  in  flour;  fry  in 
the  hot  lard  until  brown  and  tender;  dish  it.  Rub  1  spoon 
of  flour  and  1  of  butter  tog-ether,  stir  in  the  gravy  with  1 
cup  sweet  milk,  stir  until  thickened,  add  a  little  salt  and 
pepper  and  parsley  cut  fine,  pour  over  the  chicken. 

Miss  Lilly  B.  Riggs. 

Fried  Chicken. 

Cut  the  chicken  into  small  pieces  and  wash  thoroughly. 
Have  2  eggs  beaten,  with  a  little  salt,  into  which  dip  the 
chicken  and  then  into  rolled   cracker   crumbs,    and   fry   in 

Mrs.  J.  B.  A.  Ahrens. 

Fried  Chicken. 

Have  your  chicken  well  cleaned  and  salted.  Put  some 
butter  to  brown  in  larg-e  pot,  then  put  in  your  chicken  and 
fry  till  lig-ht  brown  on  both  sides,  add  a  little  water  and 
cover  pot  tight.  Baste  frequently  with  the  gravy  and  add 
water  as  needed.  A  young-  chicken  will  require  at  least 
one  hour  of  cooking-  before  done.  Turkey  can  be  prepared 
the  same  way,  but  it  will  require  three  hours  cooking. 


42  Meats  and  Fowls. 

Chicken  Fricassee. 

Cut  tender  chicken  into  small  pieces.  Put  in  the  pot 
with  sufficient  water  to  cover.  Boil  until  tender.  Strain 
the  liquor,  take  a  tablespoon  of  butter  and  sufficient  flour 
to  make  a  gravy  with  the  liquid.  Put  the  chicken  into 
this,  add  either  parsley  or  pepper  or  any  seasoning-  pre- 
ferred.    Boil  a  few  minutes.  ..        T    ~ 

Mrs.  J-  Cohen. 

Rice  Dressing  With  Oysters. 

Put  3  cups  rice  in  2  cups  of  water  over  a    quick  fire,  let 

come  to  a  good  boil,  then    cover   closely    and  cook  slow  for 

yA  hour.     Put  a  large  spoon  of  lard  in  a  pan,  add  one  small 

onion  cut  fine,  1  tablespoon  pulverized  sage,  1  spoon  of  salt 

1  teaspoon  of  pepper,  add  3  dozen  oysters,  cook  altogether 

10  minutes.     Turn  the  rice  out  in  a  bowl,  beat    2  eggs  and 

1  spoon  of  butter  into  it  well,  add  the  oysters    and  gravy, 

and  enough  juice    from    the    oysters    to    make    soft.     This 

is  enough    to   dress   a  medium    sized  turkey.    The    oysters 

can  be  omited  if  desired  . ,  ~    _, 

Mrs  Lilly  B.  Riggs. 


Vegetables.  43 


Vegetables. 


''Oh,  better,  no  doubt  is  a  dinner  of  herbs 

When  seasoned  by  love,  which  no  rancor  disturbs, 

And  sweetened  by  all  that  is  sweetest  in  life. 

Than  turbot,  bisque,  ortolans,  eaten  in  strife." 

— Lucile. 

Corn  Oysters. 

6  ears  of  corn  grated,  1  cup  cracker  crumbs,  2  eggs,   1 

tablespoonful  sweet  cream,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.      Fry 

in  butter.  A/r         .  0    „7 

Mrs    Alma  S.  Wynn. 

Baked  Rice. 

Take  boiled  rice,  place  a  layer  in  a  baking  dish,  then 
on  that  a  layer  of  stewed  tomatoes,  sprinkle  with  fried 
minced  onions,  and  repeat  the  layers  till  dish  is  full. 
Sprinkle  over  the  top  with  bread  crumbs,  dot  with  bits  of 
butter,  bake  half  an  hour  covered,  then  uncover  and  brown. 

Mrs.   J.   H.    Magruder. 

Fried  Egg  Plant. 

Peel  and  cut  the  plant  in  slices  less  than  one  half  inch 
thick,  immerse  in  salt  water  over  an  hour;  drain  and  dip 
each  slice  in  beaten  egg  and  bread  crumbs,  and  fry  brown. 

Miss  V.  Thibodeaux. 


44  Vegetable*. 

Stuffed  Tomatoes. 

Take  4  large  tomatoes  cut  top  off  and  use   the  inside, 

chopped  fine  with  parsley,  onions,  salt    and  pepper.      Mix 

with  this,  1  teaspoonful  of  butter,  3  tablespoonsful  of  corn, 

3  tablespoonsful  of  bread  crumbs.     Then  replace  in  tomato 

skins  and  bake.  _  _ 

Mrs.  Frank  A.  Daniels. 

Tomato  Aspic. 

For  twelve  people  1  can  of  tomatoes  will  be  required. 
Steam  and  put  them  in  a  sauce  pan  with  one  slice  of 
onion,  two  bay  leaves,  a  few  celery  tops,  a  teaspoonful  of 
salt  and  a  dash  of  cayenne.  Bring-  to  boiling-  point  and 
add  three-quarters  of  a  box  of  g-elatine  which  has  been 
soaked  in  one-half  cup  of  cold  water  for  one  half  hour. 
Mix  until  dissolved,  add  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon  and 
strain  ag-ain.  Pour  into  eg-g-  cups  or  moulds  and  let  stand 
aside  on  ice  for  four  or  five  hours.  When  ready  to  use 
plung-e  the  cups  in  hot  water  for  a  minute  and  turn  the 
aspic  out  on  lettuce  leaves.     Serve  with  mayonnaise. 

Mrs.  F.  A.  Dicks. 

Stuffed  Tomatoes, 

Take  4  or  5  larg-e  tomatoes,  slice  the  top  off,  then  cut 
out  the  heart  of  the  tomato,  without  breaking-  the  skin. 
Chop  the  heart  with  six  sweet  peppers,  a  little  soaked 
bread,  a  teaspoon  of  butter,  salt  to  taste.  Put  this  back  in- 
to the  tomato  skin,  sprinkle  a  little  bread  crumbs  with  a 
little  butter  on  top  of  each  tomato.  Bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  till  brown.  Miss  L.  Dirker. 


Vegetables,  45 

Baked  Tomatoes. 

Take  6  large  ripe   tomatoes,    skin   and   cut   into  small 
pieces,  spread  a  layer  in  the  bottom  of  a  baking-   dish,  sea- 
son well,  put  a  layer  of  coarse  bread  crumbs  over  the  toma 
toes  with  plenty  of  butter;  continue   this  until   the  dish   is 
full,  having-  the  bread  crumbs  on  the  top.     Bake  one  hour, 

How  to  Fry  Plantaiis. 

Slice  them  and  fry.  As  you  take  them  out  of  the  skil- 
let sprinkle  sug-ar  over  them.  After  all  are  fried,  put  a 
tablespoonful  of  butter  in  skillet  and  put  all  in  it.  Pour  a 
little  warm  water  over  them  and  sprinkle  about  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  cinnamon,  then  set  in  oven  and  bake. 

another. 

Slice'and  fry  them  till  soft,  make  a  thick  syrup  and 
pour  over  them.  MrS-   j    w    Billington. 

Green  Fried  Tomatoes. 

Take  full  grown  tomatoes,  wash,  cut  off  part  next  to 
the  stem,  cut  in  thin  slices,  salt  and  pepper,  fry  in  hot  fat 
lard  and  butter  mixed.  After  rolling-  the  slices  in  flour  or 
meal,  fry  until  brown  on  both  sides. 

Mrs.   N.   L.   Jenkins. 

Irish  Potato  Cakes. 

Take   cold   Irish    potatoes  or    fresh  boiled  ones,  mash 

and  add  gradually  hot  water.     Make    a  batter    with  flour, 

a  teaspoon  of  Dixie  baking-  powder,  pepper   and  salt.    Fry 

in  boiling  lard  as  you  do  fritters.  .,         .     ^    _ 

*  Mrs.  A.  F.  O. 


46  Vegetables. 

Scolloped  Onions,  Cauliflower  or  Asparagus. 

Boil  either  vegetable  until  tender,  then  put  in  baking- 
dish  and  pour  over  a  sauce  made  ol  1  tablespoon  butter  beat 
into  \?i  tablespoonful  of  flour;  pour  over  it  1  pint  of  hot 
milk  and  cook  until  like  custard.  Bake  one  half  hour,  cut 
cauliflower  or  asparagus  into  small  pieces  before  pouring 
the  sauce  over  it. 

Baked  Macaroni. 

Boil  a  y<z  pound  of  macaroni  in  boiling  water  (salted) 
till  tender,  drain  and  put  in  a  buttered  pudding  dish  in 
layers  with  grated  cheese  between.  When  your  dish  is 
full  pour  over  all  this  a  white  sauce  and  cover  well  with 
grated  cheese  and  a  little  butter,  then  bake  till  brown. 

White  Sauce. 

Take  ^  pint  of  milk  or  milk  and  water,  1  teaspoon 
of  butter,  1  heaping  tablespoon  of  flour  and  J  teaspoon  of 
salt  and  pepper.  Heat  the  milk,  put  the  butter  into  a  small 
sauce  pan,  stir  till  it  melts  and  bubbles.  Be  careful  not  to 
brown  it.  Add  the  dry  flour  to  the  butter,  stir  quickly  till 
well  mixed.  Pour  \  of  the  milk,  let  boil  up,  stir  well  as  it 
thickens,  then  add  gradually  the  rest  of  milk,  and  the 
pepper  and  salt.  Mrs    a    ^  Q 

Sweet  Potato  Pone. 

1  quart  grated  sweet  potatoes,  2  cups  su£ar,  1  cup  flour 
3  eggs,  2  pints  milk,  1  small  teaspoon  of  soda,  1  teaspoon 
alspice.  Beat  sugar  and  eggs  together,  mix  with  the  pota- 
toes and  flour,  add  the  milk,  soda  and  spice   and    bake  in  a 

slow  oven.  , ,        _     .     T 

Mrs.  C.  A.  Longnecker. 


Vegetables.  47 

Egg  Plant. 

Take  one  egg-  plant  and  boil  till  soft,  peel.     Put  4  or  5 

slices  of  bread  in  water;    when  sufficiently  soft  squeeze  dry 

and  season  with  a  little    thyme,    onions,    pepper    and   salt. 

Fry  the  onion  soft.     Mix  all  together,  make  into  cakes  and 

fry  brown. 

Miss  R.  Caywood, 

RICE. 

Take  one  cup  of  rice,  and  two  cups  of  water;  let  come 
to  a  boil,  stir  once,  and  put  aside  where  it  will  cook  slowly 
until  all  water  has  evaporated.  When  dry  on  top,  take  off 
the   cover   and    put    another   lid    under   it    while    it  cooks 

Miss  R.  Caywood. 

SPAGHETTI. 

Boil  very  tender  1  pound  spaghetti,  drain  off  water 
and  add  J  pound  creamery  cheese  chopped  fine,  a  large 
tablespoonful  of  butter,  an  onion  and  two  large  tomatoes, 
chopped  fine,  red  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Pour  into  bak- 
ing pan  and  bake  slowly  until  onions  are  throughly  done 
and  spaghetti  is  brown.     A  very  small  piece  of  garlic  adds 

a  flavor.  _  _         .     _ 

Mrs.  A.  Johnson. 

Stuffed  Potatoes. 

Scrape  8  large  Irish  potatoes;  bake  and  when  soft  take 
out  center.  Have  tomatoes  and  green  peas  stewed  to- 
gether with  a  little  butter;  season  highly.  Mix  with  the 
potatoes  taken  from  the  center,  fill  the  shells  and  return  to 

the  oven  for  ten  minutes.  ._         A  _. 

Mrs.  Annie  Flake. 


48  Vegetables 

Macaroni,  Italian  Style. 

Gravy  for  three  pounds  of  macaroni.  Take  two  or  three 

pounds  of  meat,  beef  or  pork,  brown  thoroughly    and   then 

take    it    out    of   the  pot,  chop  3  or  4  onions    very  fine,  and 

brown    them    thoroughly;    add     one  large     size      can     of 

tomatoes    and    brown.    Put  in  the  meat  let  it  cook  slow  for 

two  hours,  salt  and  pepper  to  suit  the  taste.       , ,  T 

r  FF  Mary  Jane. 

Stuffed  Cabbage. 

Choose  a  large  firm  cabbage,  take  off  the  outer  leaves, 
and  lay  cabbage  in  boiling  water  10  minutes,  then  in  cold. 
Do  this  several  hours  before  you  are  ready  to  stuff  it. 
When  cold  bind  a  broad  tape  about  it,  that  it  may  not  fall 
apart  when  the  stalk  is  taken  out.  Remove  the  stalk 
with  a  sharp  knife,  leaving  a  hole  as  deep  as  your  middle 
finger.  Without  widening  the  mouth,  remove  the  center 
until  you  have  room  for  4  or  5  tablespoonsful  of  the  force 
meat.  Chop  the  bits  you  take  out  very  small,  mix  with 
some  cold  boiled  pork,  ham  or  cooked  sausage  meat,  a  lit- 
tle onion,  pepper,  salt,  pinch  of  thyme  and  some  bread 
crumbs.  Fill  the  cavity  with  this.  Bind  a  wide  strip  of 
muslin  over  the  hole  in  the  top  and  lay  cabbage  in  large 
sauce  pan,  with  a  pint  of  liquor  from  boiled  ham  or  beef. 
Stew  gently  till  tender,  take  out,  unbind  carefully,  lay  on  a 
dish.  Add  to  the  strained  gravy  a  piece  of  butter  rolled  in 
flour,  2  tablespoons  rich    milk,    pepper;    boil    up   and  pour 

over  the  cabbage*  ,,        A/r    TXT 

s  Mrs.  M.  Walker. 


Vegetables. 


49 


Dread  of  the  dental  chair  has  spoiled  many  a  g-ood 
meal,  we  use  painless  methods  in  every  department. 

Boston  Dental  Co., 
St.  Charles  avenue  corner  Washing-ton 

String  Beans. 

Take  off  the  string's  and  break  them  into  pieces,  cook 
tender  in  boiling-  water,  add  a  little  salt,  drain  them,  and 
put  in  a  hot  dish.     Butter  freely  and  serve. 

Mks.  Briggs. 


50  *  Salads. 


i      SALADS.      1 


Oyster  Salad. 

Boil  two  dozen  oysters  in  their  own  liquor  five  minutes, 
drain,  wash  in  cold  water,  then  dry  and  stand  away  until 
very  cold.  When  cold  mix  with  half  a  cup  of  Mayonnaise, 
and  serve  on  crisp  lettuce  leaves. 

Mayonnaise  Dressing. 

Yolks  of  two  eg-g-s  well  beaten,  half  teaspoon  of  mus- 
tard, 1£  teaspoons  of  vinegar,  half  teaspoon  salt, small  half 
cup  of  olive  oil,  pinch  of  red  pepper.  Have  all  the  materials 
as  cold  as  possible.  Beat  the  eggs  and  mustard  one  minute 
and  begin  adding-  the  oil  a  drop  at  a  time,  beating-  con- 
tinually- When  like  a  jelly  add  a  little  lemon  juice,  and 
begin  with  a  few  drops  of  vineg-ar  at  a  time,  beating-  all  the 
while.  If  there  is  a  tendency  to  curdle,  put  back  on  the 
ice  a  few  minutes.  When  the  vineg-ar  is  used  up  add  the 
salt  and  pepper,  whip  five  minutes  more;  pour   into  a  giass 

and  keep  on  ice  until  served.  _,        ^    XT      ■ 

Mrs.  S.  H.  Montgomery. 

Mock  Chicken  Salad. 

3  lbs.  white  veal  boiled  until  tender.  8  hard  boiled  eggs 
chopped  not  too  fine,  10  cucumber  pickles  chopped,  3  heads 
celery  chopped,  J  small  bottle  sweet  oil,  salt,  pepper  and 
vinegar  to  taste.  Mrs.  G.  P.  Work. 


Salads.  51 

Salad   Dressing-  Without  Oil. 

1  eg-g",  3  tablespoons  vinegar,  1  tablespoon  butter,  1  tea- 
spoon mustard,  a  pinch  of  salt,  a  pinch  of  pepper,  put  into 
a  pan  and  stand  over  boiling  water,  stirring  constantly  till 
quite  thick.  Mrs.   A.  F.  Godat. 

Chicken  Salad. 

Boil  until  thoroughly  tender.  Then  mince  the  meat 
very  fine,  perfectly  free  from  bones  and  skin.  Boil  hard  1 
dozen  eg-gs.  Take  the  yolks  and  rub  up  with  vineg-ar.  To 
this  add  1  tablespoon  of  strong  mustard,  \  of  black  pepper 
same  quantity  of  salt,  1  cup  of  melted  butter,  and  one 
of  vinegar.  Then  mince  fine  two  larg-e  stalks  of  celery, 
and  add  all  tog-ether.  Mrs.  S.  Henderson. 

Fish  Salad. 

Boil  1  medium  red  snapper,  seasoning-  well.  Have  salad 
dish  g-arnished  with  lettuce  leaves,  place  fish  on  it,  and 
dress  with  a  Mayonnaise  made  as  follows:  Yolks  of  2  raw 
eggs,  yolk  of  1  cooked  eg-g,  season  with  a  pinch  of  mus- 
tard, cayenne  pepper  and  salt  to  taste;     one   pint  of  sweet 

oil  and  juice  of  1  lemon. 

Mrs.  E.  V.   Unsworth. 

Cold  or  Hot  Slaw. 

1  egg-,  beat  lig"ht,  1  tablespoon  of  dry  mustard  beat  up 

well  with  the  egg,  2  tablespoons  of  sugar,   salt    to    taste,   £ 

head   medium    sized    white     cabbage    chopped    very    fine, 

enoug-h  vineg-ar  to  moisten  the  cabbag-e      Mix  cabbage  and 

vineg-ar  with  all  the  above  ingredients,    place  on    fire    and 

boil  up  once.     Serve  hot  or  cold. 

Mrs.  Alice  M.  Zable. 


52  Salads. 

Salad  Dressing. 

One  cup  vinegar,  2  eggs,  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  1  tea- 
spoon mustard,  1  teaspoon  of  sugar,  pinch  of  salt.  Boil 
the  vinegar,  mix  butter,  mustard,  sugar  and  salt,  beat  eggs 
very  light,  put  together,  then  pour  the  boiling  vinegar 
slowly  stirring  all  the  time.  Return  to  pan,  let  cook  to 
boiling  point,  still  stirring.  Cool  before  using.  This  is 
excellent  for  all  kinds  of  salads. 

Mrs.  A.  J.  Ckebbin. 

Salmon  Salad. 

Take  a  one  pound  tin  can  of  the  best  salmon  obtain- 
able,  remove  it  from  the  can  and  divide  it  into  not  too  fine 
pieces.  Line  a  bowl  or  platter  with  lettuce  leaves,  add  the 
salmon.  Squeeze  over  it  a  little  lemon  juice.  Mash  with 
dressing,  garnish  with  lemon  slices,  egg-  rings,   or  lettuce. 

Lobster  Salad. 

Use  one-third  Lobsters,    one-third  Cod  or  Halibut    and 
one-third  potatoes  with  water  cress  or    other   salad    green 
use  a   few    spoonfuls   of   dressing    in  mixing  ingredients, 
then  mask  with  dressing  and  decorate. 

Mrs.  J.  W.  Billington. 

Salad  Dressing. 

1  tablespoon  butter,  1  tablespoon  dry  mustard,  mix 
to  a  cream,  2  well  beaten  eggs,  stir  in  slowly,  pepper  and 
salt  to  taste,  add  8  teaspoons  of  cider  vinegar,  stirring  all 
the  time   and   cook   in   a  double  boiler. 

G.  F.  Cocker , 


Salads.  53 

Have  you  lost  some  teeth?  Have  the  difficulty  bridged, 
$3  and  $5  up.  Boston  Dental  Co., 

St.  Charles  avenue  corner  Washing-ton. 

Tomato  Egg  Salad. 

Place  in  salad  dish  a  bit  of  lettuce  leaves,  then  on  this 
a  layer  of  sliced  tomatoes,  then  a  layer  of  sliced  hard  boil- 
ed eggs,  sprinkle  over  this  celery,  salt  and  pepper,  and  then 
another  layer  of  tomatoes  and  so  on  till  dish  is  full,  over 
this  pour  a  mayonnaise  dressing-.  This  is  a  very  nice  salad. 

Mrs.  E.  P.  Lowe. 

Salmon  Salad. 

1  can  salmon,  x/2  pound  crackers  rolled,  3  hard  boiled 
eggs,  8  small  pickles  chopped  fine,  1  head  celery.  Salad 
dressing-:  6  tablespoonfuls  vineg-ar,  heated.  Take  yolks  of  2 
eg-gs  (raw)  and  mix  into  it,  2  tablespoonfuls  flour,  and  but- 
ter size  of  two  hickory  nuts,  salt,  pepper,  mustard  and 
sugar.  Add  this  to  the  scalding  vinegar  and  cook  till  thick 

as  cream.  ,T         .  ~    TTT 

Mrs.  Alma  S.  Wynn. 

Chicken  Salad. 

Take  1  large  hen  or  rooster,  boil  till  quite  tender,  put 
by  to  cool.  Save  the  jelly  oil  from  water  in  which  chicken 
is  boiled  to  add  to  salad.  Boil  from  12  to  18  eggs  hard. 
Then  chop  up  fine  8  or  10  bunches  of  celery,  1  small  bot- 
tle of  pickles,  about  1  tablespoon  of  mustard,  vinegar,  salt, 
and  red  and  black  pepper  to  taste.  Chop  up  the  chicken 
and  eggs.     Mix  all  well  together. 

Mrs.   S.  S.  Keener. 


Eggs. 


Egg  Crumb  Pie. 

6  hard  boiled  eggs,  two  cups  fine  bread  crumbs.  Put 
first  a  layer  of  bread  crumbs  in  dish,  then  the  thin  sliced 
eggs,  little  pepper,  salt  and  butter,  then  another  layer  of 
bread  crumbs  and  so  on  till  the  dish  is  filled,  last  layer  to 
be  of  eggs;  pour  over  all  a  cup  of  sweet  milk,  and  brown  in 

the  oven.  . ,        ^   «    _.  ,  „  .,  .    T 

Mrs.  F.  E.  McLemore,  Delhi,  La. 


Tom  Thumb  Omelet. 

8  eggs  beat  well,  1  cup  grated  cheese,  J  cup  sweet  milk 
fry  in  hot  butter,  season  with  salt. 

Mrs.  J.  H.  Magruder. 

Baked  Eggs. 


Grease  a  plate  with  butter,  break  the  eggs  and  put  on 
the  plate,  sprinkle  salt  and  pepper,  and  a  little  butter  over 
them  and  bake  in  hot  oven  for  a  minute  or  two.  This  is 
more  digestible  than  fried  eggs. 


Puddings  and  Sauces.  55 


d  Puddings  and  Sauces  w 

V ^- ^,- -v.- ^- >*• ^- ^ •  ^ -^ -^ -^ ^  ^' 


"The  proof  of  the  pudding  is  in  the  eating" 


Royal  Diplomatic  Pudding. 

To  1  box  gelatine  add  1  glass  of  water.  When  dis- 
solved divide  into  half.  To  one  half  add  three  glasses  of 
granulated  sugar,  1  half  glass  of  lemon  juice  and  1  glass  of 
water.  Heat  a  little  to  get  the  sugar  to  melt,  then  colour 
with  leaf  green.  To  the  other  half  of  gelatine  add  2  glasses 
of  sugar  and  1  glass  of  orange  juice.  Color  with  red  fruit 
coloring,  and  when  ready  to  congeal  add  the  whites  of  3 
eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth  and  add  to  the  green.  This 
makes  a  lovely  dessert,  looks  like  water-melon. 

Mrs.  F.  A.  Lyons. 

Apricot  Pudding. 

Soak  J  pint  of  granulated  tapioca  overnight  in  enough 
water  to  cover  it.  In  the  morning  drain  the  juice  from  a 
can  of  apricots,  stir  it  into  the  tapioca,  add  a  half  cup  of 
sugar  and  enongh  water  to  make  it  rather  thin.  Let  this 
boil  until  clear.  Cover  the  bottom  of  a  pudding  dish  with 
the  fruit,  sprinkle  with  sugar,  and  pour  on  the  tapioca. 
Bake  for  half  an  hour  and  serve  cold  with  cream. 

Mrs.  F.  A.  Dicks. 


56  Puddings  and  Sauces. 

Jeff.  Davis  Pudding. 

1  tea  cup  of  New  Orleans  molasses,  1  tea  cup  of  beef 
suet,  1  tea  cup  of  butter  milk,  1  tea  cup  of  raisins  (seeded) 
1  tea  cup  of  currants,  5  cts.  worth  of  citron  cut  in  pieces  as 
for  cakes,  1  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  butter  milk  or  sifted 
in  the  flour,  three  tea  cups  of  flour  after  it  is  sifted;  mix 
molasses  and  suet  first,  then  alternately  butter-milk  and 
flour,  then  mix  the  fruit  together  and  flour  well,  and  stir 
in  with  a  grated  nutmeg.      Grease  a  mould  well  and  steam 

4  hours.  Use  boiled  sauce  as  follows:  1  pint  granulated 
sugar,  1  heaping  tablespoon  of  butter,  with  nutmeg  or  any 
other  flavoring  to  taste.  J.  W.  W. 

Simple  Plum  Pudding. 

1  cup  of  molasses,  1  cup  of  sweet  milk,  1  cup  of 
chopped  raisins,  1  cnp  of  chopped  currants,  J  cup  of  butter, 
3£  cups  of  flour,  1  teaspoon  of  soda,  1  teaspoon  each  of  the 
spices.  Dissolve  the  soda  in  a  little  of  the  syrup,  mix  all 
together  and  put  in  a  double  bag  and  place  in  boiling 
water,  keep  on  a  steady  boil  for  3  hours.  Keep  the  pot  full 
of  water  and  the  pudding  well  covered. 

Chocolate  Pudding. 

1  pint  milk,  1  pint  bread  crumbs,  £  cup  sugar,  3  eggs, 

5  tablespoons  grated  chocolate.  Scald  the  milk,  add  bread 
crumbs  and  chocolate.  Take  from  fire  and  add  sugar,  and 
the  beaten  yolks  of  eggs.  Put  in  pudding  dish,  bake  15 
minutes.  Beat  the  whites  of  eggs  with  1  tablespoon  of 
sugar,  spread  on  and  brown.     Serve  cold  with  liquid  sauce. 

Mrs.  A.  F.  G 


I  biddings  and  Sauces.  57 

Fig  Pudding:. 

3  cups  bread  crumbs,  1  cup  milk,  1  cup  sugar  (brown 
or  white)  1  pound  of  figs,  1  teaspoon  soda,  i  cup  suet 
chopped  fine,  2  eggs,  spices  to  taste.  Steam  2  hours  and 
serve  with  hot  sauce. 

Mrs.  Alma  S.   Wynn. 

Portguese   Apple  Pudding. 

Peel,  core,  and  stew  to  a  pulp  \  dozen  tart  apples;  press 
through  a  colander;  add  the  grated  rind  of  \  of  a  lemon 
and  sufficient  sugar  to  sweeten.  Pare,  quarter  and  core  b 
more  apples,  put  them  in  a  baking  dish,  sprinkle  \  cup  of 
sugar  over  then  and  bake  slowly  until  tender.  Line  a  deep 
pie  plate  with  good  paste  and  bake  until  well  colored.  Pour 
into  it  the  stewed  apples,  piling  them  up  dome  shape. 
Cover  with  a  meringue  made  of  the  whites  of  eggs  and  a 
little  sugar,  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Brown  in  a  mod- 
erate oven  and  serve  cold  with  a  Custard  Sauce— yolks  of  3 
eggs,  1  pint  of  milk,  and  2  tablespoons  of  sugar. 

Mrs.  Rosenbaum. 

Transparent  Pudding. 

4  eggs  beaten  separately,  1  cup  butter,    2   cups   sugar, 

beaten  together  to  a  cream,  add  the  yolks.       Put  a  layer  of 

citron  or  acid  jelly  on  the  crust,  pour  on  the  transperancy, 

flavor  to  suit  the  taste,  and  bake,  then  add  the    whites  as  a 

meringue.  .  0 

Amelia  Scott. 


58  Pudding*  and  Sauces. 

Cocoaimt  Pudding. 

Grate  1  cocoanut,  3  slices  of  bread  soaked  in  the  cocoa- 
nut  milk,  6  eggs  beat  well  with  one  cup  of  sugar,  1  pound 
of  raisins,  J  teaspoon  Dixie  yeast  powder. 

SAUCE. 

\  cup  of  sugar,  J  cup  of  butter  well    beaten  with  little 

cream  and  nutmeg-.  _    TT     . 

S.  H.  Andrews. 

Banana  Pudding. 

1  box  gelatine,  5  bananas,  1  quart  milk,  1  pint  cream, 
2  cups  sugar,  1  cup  water.  Dissolve  gelatine  in  the  water, 
scald  milk,  to  which  the  sugar  has  been  added.  Strain  the 
gelatine,  and  stir  into  the  milk.  Let  simmer  10  minutes, 
cool,  slice  bananas  after  peeling  into  small  pieces,  and 
stir   into    jelly   before    it    is   stiff.       Serve    with   whipped 

cream-  J.  w.  w. 


Rice  Pudding. 

1  cup  of  cold  rice,  yolks  of  3  eggs  beaten,  £  cup  raisins, 
enough  sugar  to  sweeten,  2  cups  sweet  milk,  beat  all  to- 
gether, add  a  little  butter.  When  baked  spread  over  to  top 
the  whites  of  eggs  beaten  with  sugar,    Flavor    with    Dixie 

vanilla  extract.  A/r    ,-    TT7 

M.  M.  W. 


Puddings  and  Sauces.  59 

Do  you  enjoy  your  food?  A  nicely  adjusted  set  of 
teeth  may  help  you.  Boston  Dental  Co., 

St.  Charles  avenue  corner  Washing-ton. 

Apple  Pudding. 

Fill  a  buttered  baking  dish,  with  sliced  apples  and 
pour  over  this  a  batter  made  of  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  % 
cup  of  sugar,  1  egg,  \  cup  of  sweet  milk  and  1  cup  of  flour, 
1  teaspoon  Dixie  yeast  powder.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
till  brown.     Serve  with  cream  and  sugar  or  liquid  sauce. 

Boiled   Pudding. 

1  cup  suet  chopped  fine,  1  cup  of  raisins   cut  in  half,    2 

cups  flour,  1  cup  milk,  1  cup  sugar,    a   little   nutmeg  and  a 

little  salt,    1    teaspoon    Dixie   yeast    powder.     Grease  and 

flour   a    tin    bucket,    put   pudding   in   and    boil  hard  for  2 

hours.     Serve  with  a  rich  sauce.  __        ,.    T. 

Miss  M.  Keen. 


Lemon  Pudding. 

1^  pound  of  sugar,  juice  and  grated  rind  of    3  lemons, 

8  eggs,  \  cup  of  butter,    tablespoon    of    flour.       Beat    well 

together,  and  bake.  , ,         ~ 

&  Mrs.  Oliver. 


60  Pies  and  Pastries. 


|    Pies  and  Pastry,  1 


"No  soil  upon  earth  is  so  dear  to  our  eyes, 
As  the  soil  we  first  stirred  in  terrestrial  pies. 

— O.  H.  Holmes. 


Mock  Mince  Pies. 


1  cup  bread  crumbs  dried,  and  2  cups  seeded  and 
chopped  (rolled)  raisins,  J  cup  molasses,  1  lemon,  juice 
and  grated  rind,  nutmeg-,  cinnamon,  and  whatever  spice  is 
desired.     Sugar  to  taste,  little  water. 

Mrs.   F.   R.   H. 

Cream  Pie. 

Beat  thoroughly  the  yolks  of  2  eg-g-s  with  J  cup  of 
sug-ar,  add  1  heaping-  tablespoon  of  flour,  1  even  tablespoon 
of  corn  starch  dissolved  in  milk.  Pour  into  1  pint  of  boiling" 
milk  and  let  cook  about  3  minutes.  Let  cool  and  flavor  to 
taste.  M.  B. 

Pastry  for  Pies. 

Sieve  3  cups  flour  in  a  pan,  salt  to  taste,  add  1  cup 
lard,  mix  thoroughly  with  half  the  flour.  Add  £  cup  water, 
mould  lig-htly;  roll  out,  and  put  it  in  pans,  pricking-  it  over 
with  a  knife  to  prevent  blistering-. 


Pii  <8  a  n  d  I  ^aetries.  6 1 

Lemon  Pie. 

1  quart  of  sweet  milk,  (condensed  milk  will  do  as  well) 
the  yolks  of  5  eg-g-s,  2  heaping-  tablespoons  of  corn  starch, 
about  2  cups  of  sugar  or  sweeten  to  taste,  2  lemons  the 
grated  rind  and  juice,  put  the  milk  on  to  boil,  beat  the 
yolk  of  eg-gs,  sug-ar  and  lemons  tog-ether,  mix  the  corn- 
starch with  a  little  milk,  put  into  the  boiling  milk,  and 
when  it  thickens  add  the  eggs,  lemon  and  sugar.  Let  all 
cook  till  it  has  thickened  enough,  then  stir  in  a  teaspoon  of 
butter,  and  when  cold  add  Dixie  Vanilla  Flavoring.  Have 
the  pie  crust  already  cooked,  put  the  mixture  in  and  put 
in  the  oven  to  cook  a  few  minutes,  then  spread  over  the 
pies  the  whites  of  the  eg-gs  which  have  been  beaten  up 
with  4  spoons  of  sug-ar,  brown  a  little  in  the  oven. 

Mrs.  J.  W.  Wilkinson. 

Filling  for  Lemon  Pies. 

Grate  the  yellow  covering-  and  squeeze  out  the  juice  of 
2  lemons  into  a  granite  pan;  add  2  cups  flour,  2  cups  sugar, 
the  yolks  of  4  eg-gs,  reserving-  the  whites  in  a  separate 
dish,  add  4  tablespoonsful  flour,  2  cups  water  added  slowly 
while  stirring-.  When  smooth,  cook  until  thick  enough  to 
pour  into  the  crust,  which  should  be  already  baked.  Beat 
the  4  whites  of  eg-g-s  into  a  froth,  add  1  cup  sug-ar,  1  tea- 
spoonful  of  Dixie  lemon  extract.  Pour  over  the  pies,  return 
to  oven  until  the  white  top  becomes  a  light  brown. 

Mrs.  N.  L.  Jenkins. 


62  Pies  and  Pastries. 


Lemon  Fie. 


1  large  lemon,  1  cup  sugar,  £  cup  of  water,  2  eggs,  1 
teaspoon  of  flour.  Grate  lemon,  using  it  in  the  juice,  mix 
juice  and  eggs  together,  then  stir  in  sugar,  mixing  well, 
mix  the  u  ater,  then  flour  lastly. 

paste. 
1  cup   flour,    (with    a   pinch  of   salt)    sifted,    rub  in  2 
tablespoons  of  lard,  then  roll  out  for  pie  pan. 

Mrs,  Frank  A.  Daniels. 

Orange  Pie. 

Slice  3  oranges,  peel,  take  out  the  pits.  Leave  them 
over-night  in  sugar,  next  day  put  the  sliced  oranges  on  a 
well  made  pie  crust  in  a  pie  pan.  Then  take  the  yolks  of 
8  eggs,  Ik  cups  of  powdered  sugar,  lemon  juice  and  grated 
rind  of  1  lemon.  Put  it  on  the  stove  and  stir  constantly  till 
it  thickens.  Beat  the  white  of  the  eggs  to  a  froth,  and 
mix  all  together.      Now  pour  it  on  your  oranges  and  bake. 

Mrs.  Adler. 

Transparent   Custard. 

6  eggs,  2  cups  of  sugar,  1  cup  of  butter,  1  tablespoon 
of  cornstarch  and  Dixie  vanilla  extract,  beat  butter  and 
sugar  to  a  cream,  then  add  the  yolks  beaten  to  a  froth  with 
the  cornstarch  and  extract.  Stir  all  together  and  bake  in 
nice  crust.  When  done  spread  the  beaten  whites  of  eggs 
and  6  tablespoons  of  sugar,  over  the  pie  and  brown  slightly. 

Mrs.  F.  E.  McLemore,  Delhi,  La. 


Pies  and  Pastri<  s.  63 

Custard  Fruit  Fie. 

Make  a  good  pie  crust,  rub  a  little  flour  on  it  and  lay 
on  your  pie  plates.  Put  stewed  fruit  in  it  and  pour  over 
them  a  custard  made  with  2  eggs,  1  cup  of  milk  and  a  cup 
of  sugar,  beaten  together.     Enough  for  2  pies. 

Mrs-  A.  F.  Godat. 

Sweet  Potato  Pies. 

Boil  5  large  sweet  Pototoes  till  soft,  mash  and  season 
with  sugar,  butter,  2  eggs,  nutmeg  and  a  cup  of  milk,  mix 
all  together  and  put  in  the  crust  enough  for  3  pies. 

Miss  Caywood. 

,  Mince  Meat. 

1  beef  tongue,  2  pounds  of  raisins,  2  pounds  of  cur- 
rants, 2  dozen  of  apples,  |  pound  of  beef  suet,  h  pound  of 
citron,  2  tablespoons  of  cinnamon,  2  tablespoons  of  nutmeg, 
2  tablespoons  of  mace,  1  tablespoon  of  cloves,  1  tablespoon 
of  allspice,  1  tablespoon  of  salt,  2\  pounds  of  brown  sugar, 
1  quart  of  cider.   Use  ground  spice.       Chop    all   up    finely, 

put  in  jar  and  cover  up. 

v  J  Mrs.  W.   W.  Sutcliffe. 


Cakes.  64 


'fe 


CAKES.l 


Watermelon  Cake. 

\\  cups  sugar,  whites  of  4  eggs,  \  cup  sweet  milk,  y2 
cup  of  butter,  2  cups  of  flour,  1  full  teaspoon  Dixie  baking 
powder.  Cream  butter  and  sugar  well  together,  then  add 
the  milk,  afterward  stir  in  a  little  flour,  then  a  little  egg, 
and  so  on  until  all  the  ingredients  are  added.  Then  take 
1J  cups  of  pink  sugar  (any  good  confectioner  can  supply  it) 
\  cup  sour  milk,  2  cups  flour,  1  teaspoonful  Dixie  baking 
powder.  Flavor  the  pink  part  with  anything  you  prefer, 
rose  water  is  much  used.  Seed  %  pound  of  good  raisins, 
rub  well  in  flour,  to  prevent  them  sinking.  After  the 
dough  of  both  kinds  are  ready,  spread  the  bottom  and 
sides  of  the  pan  with  the  white  dough;  fill  up  with  the 
pink,  leaving  enough  of  the  white  to  cover  over  top  en- 
tirely. Bake  carefully.  Be  sure  it  is  well  done  before  re- 
moving from  the  pan.  This  cake  is  very  popular  with 
young  people.  Mrs.  Florence  E.  Russ. 

Sponge  Cake. 

10  eggs,  beat  separate;  L  pound  of  sugar,  §  pound  of 
flour,  1  tablespoonful  of  Dixie  baking  powder.  Flavor  with 
lemon,  add  the  whites  of  the  eggs  last. 

Miss  Mollje  Walker. 


Cakes.  65 

Velvet  Sponge  (Jake. 

2  eggs,  beaten  light;  beat  in  1  cupful  of  granulated  or 
powdered  sugar,  £  cupful  of  sifted  flour,  next  £  cupful  of 
flour  sifted  with  1  teaspoonful  of  Dixie  baking  powder,  and 
lastly,  J  cupful  of  boiling  water  very  gradually.  Have  the 
tin  buttered.  Fill  and  bake  immediately  in  a  well  heated 
oven.  The  baUer  will  seem  very  thin,  but  the  cake  is  ex- 
cellent. By  the  use  of  one  more  egg  any  layer  cake  may 
be  made  better  than  with  butter.  For  this  save  2  whites 
out  for  frosting,  using  the  other  egg  and  2  yolks  for  the 
cake.  Bake  in  layer  cake  tins.  Whip  the  whites  stiff, 
and  stir  in  sugar.  Spread  between  each  layer,  and  over 
the  top.  For  cocoanut  cake  sprinkle  cocoanut  over  the 
frosting  between  the  layers,  and  thickly  over  the  top  layer. 
For  chocolate,  grate  i  teacupful  of  Baker's  chocolate,  and 
stir  in  the  frosting,  and  use  as  before. 

Sponge  Cake. 

Separate  the  whites  and  yolks  of  4  eggs.  When  the 
whites  are  stiff  enough,  beat  into  them  h  cup  of  sugar, 
beating  for  5  minutes.  Add  to  the  yolks  the  juice  and 
grated  rind  of  a  lemon.  Now  beat  well  together  the  yolks 
and  whites.  Add  1  cup  of  flour  stirring  it  in  as  lightly  as 
possible.  (Never  beat  a  sponge  cake  after  adding  the  flour) 
Bake  for  25  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven.  Just  before  put- 
ting in  the  oven  sprinkle  on  the  top  through  a  sifter,  about 
a  tablespoonful  of  granulated  sugar. 

Mrs    D.   Kosenbaum. 


66  Cakes. 

Molasses  Sponge  Cake, 

1  cup  of  molasses,  2\  cups  of  flour,  \  cup  of  shortening-, 
\  cup  of  sugar,  a  little  salt,  1  teaspoon  of  cinnamon,  1 
teaspoon  of  ginger.  Mix  and  add  1  teaspoon  of  soda  dis- 
solved in  a  cup  of  boiling  water. 

Mrs.  P.  R.  Baldwin,  Biloxi,  Miss. 

Layer  Sponge  Cake. 

1£  cups  powdered  sugar,  5  eg-gs,  3  tablespoons  water, 
2  cups  flour,  2  level  teaspoons  Dixie  baking  powder. 
COOKED  ICING  FILLING. 
1J  cups  granulated  sugar,  9  tablespoons  water,  cook 
until  it  begins  to  rope.  Pour  it  into  the  whites  of  three 
eggs,  well  beaten  and  beat  this  until  it  cools,  mix  with  it 
pecans  or  chocolate  or  any  you  prefer,  and  spread  between 
layers  of  cake.     This  will  make  four  good  layers. 

Miss  Mary  Werlein. 

Buffalo  Layer  Cake. 

1  cup  of  white  sugar,  two-thirds  cup  of  sweet  milk,  2 
cups  of  flour,  1  egg,  1  tablespoon  melted  butter,  1  teaspoon 
Dixie  baking  powder.  Bake  in  3  jelly  tins. 
cream  filling. 
1  cup  sweet  milk,  1  egg,  1  tablespoon  cornstarch,  2 
tablespoons  sugar.  Heat  the  milk  until  boiling  with  the 
sugar  in  it,  then  add  the  starch  wet  in  a  little  cold  milk, 
stir  until  it  thickens,  put  in  lastly  the  egg  well  beaten. 

Miss  Mary  Werlein, 


Cakes.  67 

Fruit  Cakt\ 

One  pound  each  of  butter,  sugar,  flour,  raisins,  (seeded 
and  chopped)  and  currants  thoroughly  cleaned,  >4  pound  of 
citron  shaved  fine,  and  1  pound  or  more  of  nuts,  cut  fine. 
Cream  the  butter  and  sugar  together,  to  which  add  the 
well  beaten  yolks  of  eight  eggs,  then  a  part  of  the  flour, 
then  add  a  part  of  the  whites,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth;  then 
the  remainder  of  the  flour,  (except  a  little  kept  out  to  mix 
with  the  fruit,  just  before  putting  it  in  the  cake).  After 
adding  all  the  whites,  beat  well;  then  put  in  the  fruit,  and 
mix  thoroughly.     Bake  slowly  until  done. 

Fruit   Cake. 

2  pounds  of  sugar,  2  pounds  of  flour,  2  pounds  of  butter, 
2  pounds  of  dried  currants,  2  pounds  of  raisins,  2  pounds  of 
citron,  h  spoonful  of  cloves,  and  i  of  a  nutmeg,  12  eggs, 
whites  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth. 

Mrs.  G.  V.  Pierce,  Biloxi,  Miss. 

Cake  and  Sauce. 

2  cups  sugar,  I  cup  butter,  1  cup  milk,  4  eggs,  3£  cups 
of  flour,  1  teaspoon  vanilla  extract,  2  teaspoons  Dixie  bak- 
ing powder.  Beat  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream,  add  yolks 
of  eggs,  milk  and  flavoring,  add  flour  reserving  two  table- 
spoonfuls;  add  whites  of  eggs.  Put  baking  powder  in  the 
reserved  flour  and  add  to  cake. 

SAUCE 

Whites  of  2  eggs,  beat  light,  add  3  tablespoons  of 
powdered  sugar,  yolks  of  2  eggs,  and  3  tablespoons  of  milk 
1  teaspoon  of  vanilla.   Prepare  immediately  before  serving. 

Miss  Fannie  M.  Rayne. 


68  Cake*. 

Cocoanut  Pound   Cake. 

Beat  J  pound  of  butter  to  a  cream;  add  gradually  a 
pound  of  sifted  flour,  1  pound  of  powdered  sugar,  2  tea- 
spoonsful  of  Dixie  baking  powder,  a  pinch  of  salt,  a  tea- 
spoonful  ol  grated  lemon-peel,  J  of  a  pound  of  prepared 
cocoanut,  4  well-beaten  eggs,  and  a  cup  of  milk;  mix  thor- 
oughly; butter  the  tins,  and  line  them  with  buttered  paper; 
pour  the  mixture  in  to  the  depth  of  an  inch  and  a  half, 
and  bake  in  a  good  oven.  When  baked,  take  out,  spread 
icing  over  them,  and  return  the  cake  to  the  oven  a  moment 

to  dry  the  icing.     Perfection  cake. 

Mrs.  Pierce. 

Citron  Pound  Cake. 

1  cup  butter,  2  cups  sugar,  2  cups  flour,  4  eggs,  1^  tea- 
spoons Dixie  baking  powder,  1  teaspoon  essence,  5cts.worth 
of  citron.  Icing;  white  of  1  egg,  8  tablespoons  pulverized 
sugar.  Mrs.  Rosenbaum. 

If  the  teeth  are  sensitive  to  sweets  half  the  pleasure  is 
lost.     This  condition  should  be  remedied  without  delay. 

Boston  Dental  Co., 
St.  Charles  avenue  corner  Washington. 

Cornstarch  Cake. 

>2  cup  butter,  creamed;  \  cup  of  sugar,  ]/2  cup  of  milk, 
x/t,  teaspoon  almond  extract,  \  cup  cornstarch,  1£  cups  of 
flour,  \  teaspoon  of  soda,  \  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar,  whites 
of  6  eggs.  Mix  in  the  order  given  and  bake  in  a  moderate: 
oven.  Mrs.  Holmes. 


( fakes.  69 

White  Cup  Cake. 

1  cup  butter,  2  cups  sugar,  1  cup  milk,  3  cups  flour, 
white  of  12  eggs,  flavoring  to  suit  taste,  £  teaspoon  of 
Dixie  baking  powder. 

Another  White  Cup  Cake. 

4  cups  flour,    2    cups  butter,    1  cup  milk,  3  cups  sugar. 
Whites  of  20  eggs,  1  small  teaspoon  Dixie  baking   powder* 
Mrs.  F.  E.  McLemore,  Delhi,  La. 

White  Cake. 

Whites  of  8  eggs,  well  whipped;  3  cups  pulverized 
sugar,  1  cup  butter,  1  cup  milk,  4  cups  sifted  flour  with  1 
teaspoon  cream  of  tartar,  £  teaspoon  soda,  dissolved  in 
milk,  juice  of  1  lemon.      Bake  1  hour  in   a   moderate  oven  . 

Mrs.  Buchell. 

A  Nice  White  Cake. 

Beat  the  whites  of  5  eggs,  very  light;  add  1  cup  of 
sugar,  |  cup  of  butter,  2  cups  of  flour,  2  small  teaspoonfuls 
of  Dixie  baHng  powder.     Bake  in  a  small  loaf. 

TCHOUPITOULAS  MISSION. 

Sponge  Cake. 

Sift  1  cup  flour,  1  cup  sugar  and  1  teaspoon  Dixie 
baking  powder  together,  then  break  3  eggs  into  it,  and  only 
beat  enough  to  get  a  smooth  batter. 

Mrs.  Annie  Flake. 


TO  Cakes. 

White  Nut  Cake. 

The  whites  of  7  eg-g-s,  3  cups  flour,  1  teaspoon  vanilla, 
3  teaspoons  Dixie  baking-  powder,  2  cups  pulverized  sug-ar, 
2  cups  milk,  %  cup  butter,  cream  the  butter  and  sug-ar; 
then  add  the  flour  and  milk  alternately;  then  add  the 
whites  well  beaten.  Bake  this  in  4  layers,  1\  pounds  pe- 
cans cut  fine  (reserving-  30  whole  to  put  on  the  top).  Beat 
the  whites  of  5  egg-s  and  1  full  cup  of  pulverized  sug-ar  to- 
g-ether untihvery  stiff;  add  the  cut  pecans  for  the  filling-. 
Ice  the  top,  split  the  30  pecans  and  lay  them  on  the  top  in 
the  icing-.  Amelia  Scott. 

Nut  Cake. 

2  cups  of  sugar,  two-thirds  cup  of  butter,  4  eg-g-s,  two- 
thirds  cup  of  water  or  milk,  3  cups  of  flour,  3  teaspoons 
Dixie  baking-  powder,  1  cup  of  nuts.  Bake  in  shallow  bak- 
ing pans,  and  cut  into  squares  with  icing-.  Currants  may 
be  substituted  for  nuts. 

Miss  May  Williams. 

Nut  Cake. 

1  pound  flour,  1  pound  sug-ar,  J  lb.  butter,  6  egg-s,  1  cup 
sweet  milk,  1  grated  nutmeg-,  1J  pounds  raisins  stoned,  3 
pounds  hulled  pecans,  1  teaspoon  Dixie  baking-  powder. 
Cream  the  butter  and  sug-ar,  beat  the  eg-gs  very  lig-ht,  all 
tog-ether,  and  add  to  butter  and  sugar,  then  the  milk,  flour 
and  baking-  powder,  then  the  raisins  and  nuts.  Bake  in  a 
slow  oven  until  a  straw  will  come  out  without  anything- 
sticking  to  it.  Mrs.  M.  A.  Riley. 


Cakes.  71 


Lemon  Cake. 


4  eg-gs,  1  cup  sugar,  1  cup  flour,  }4  teaspoon  Dixie 
baking-  powder,  1  tablespoon  cold  water,  £  lemon,  juice  and 
rind.  Mix  the  yolks  of  the  egg's  and  sugar  together,  then 
add  the  water,  sift  the  flour  and  measure  out  an  even  cup- 
ful. Stir  this  thoroughly,  then  the  whites  of  the  eggs 
beaten  to  a  stiff  dry  froth,  then  the  lemon  juice  and  grated 
rind,    and     lastly    the     baking    powder.     Cook  in    pie   or 

jelly  pans. 

FILLING 

One  cup  of  hot  water,  1  tablespoon  of  cornstach,  1  cup 
of  white  sug-ar,  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  juice  and  grated 
rind  of  one  lemon,  1  egg.  Cook  a  few  minutes  and  spread 
between    each  cake   like  jelly. 

Miss  Mollie  Walker. 

Marble   Cake. 

Whites  of  7  eggs,  1  cup  of  butter,  2  cups  of  sugar,  % 
cup  sweet  milk,  then  3|  cups  flour,  1  tablespoonful  of  Dixie 
baking  powder. 

DARK    PART. 

Yolks  of  7  eg-g-s,  1  cup  of  molasses,  2  cups  of  brown 
sugar,  y<z  cup  of  butter,  1  cup  of  sweet  milk,  5  cups  of  flour, 
1  tablespoonful  Dixie  baking  powder,  1  tablespoonful  of 
different  spices  except  ging-er,  1  teaspoonful  of  ginger  is 
enoug-h.  Grease  cake  pan,  then  put  in  a  layer  of  the  white 
batter  then  the  dark  and  so  on,  until  you  have  enough  in 
the  pan.     Bake  1  hour. 

Miss  Mollie  Walker. 


72  Cakes. 

Lemon  Cream  Layer  Cake. 

1  cup  of  butter,  2  cups  sugar,  3  cups  flour  and  4  eggs, 
2  teaspoons  Dixie  baking  powder.     Bake  in  4  layers. 

filling. 

2  eggs,  1  cup  of  sugar,  beat  very  light.  Boil  2  cups  of 
sweet  milk;  when  the  milk  comes  to  a  boil  stir  in  7  spoon- 
fuls of  cornstarch  wet  up  in  cold  milk.  Then  stir  in  the 
eggs  and  sugar,  let  cook  a  moment,  pour  out  in  a  dish  and 
flavor  with  grated  rind  and  juice  of  2  lemons,  and  spread 
between  layers  of  cake. 

Lemon  Jelly  Filling. 

The  juice  of  two  lemons,  and  grated  rind  of  one,  one 
cupful  of  sugar,  one  egg,  half  cupful  of  water,  one  table- 
spoonful  of  butter,  one  tablespoonful  of  flour  mixed  with  a 
little  water.  Cook  over  boiling  water  until  it  thickens. 
Place  between  the  layers  of  cake.  This  cake  will  keep  well 
and  is  better  at  the  end  of  a  week  than    it    is  the  first  day. 

Mrs.  Pierce. 

Marshmallow  Cake. 

1  cup  of  butter,  2  cups  of  sugar,  3  cups  of  flour,  2  tea- 
spoons of  Dixie  baking  powder,  1  cup  of  sweet  milk,  white 
of  6  eggs,  cream,  butter  and  sugar,  add  milk  and  flour, 
lastly  eggs  beaten  stiff  in  three  layers. 

filling 

2  cups  granulated  sugar,  \  cup  boiling  water,  let  boil. 
Whites  of  2  eggs  beaten  stiff,  put  16  marshmallows  in  a 
slow  oven  to  heat.  When  the  syrup  threads  when  poured 
from  a  spoon,  pour  over  the  eggs  and  beat  well,  add  marsh- 
mallows,  beat  smooth  and  spread.     Excellent. 


Cakes.  73 

Caramel  Cake. 

J  of  a  pound  of  butter,  whites  of  10  egg's,  3  cups  gran- 
ulated sugar,  %  cup  of  water.  1  quart  unsifted  flour,  one  tea- 
spoon Dixie  baking  powder.       Bake  in  jelly  cake  pans. 

CARAMEL  FOR  FILLING  FOR  THE  ABOVE. 

4  cups  brown  sugar,  1  cup  of  cream  or  milk,  half  cup 
of  butter,  vanilla.  Put  all  together  and  stew  until  it  is 
about  the  consistency  of  molasses,  then  fill  your  cakes.  A 
few  hulled  and  well-broken  pecans  sprinkled  over  the  cara- 
mel before  putting  on  next  layer  adds  very  much  to  it. 
Ornament  top  with  half  pecans. 

Caramel  Cake. 

2  eggs,  1  cup  of  brown  sugar,  £  cup  of  butter,  \  cup  of 
milk,  \  teaspoonful  of  soda,  1  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tar- 
tar; 2  cups  of  flour. 

FOR    FILLING. 

2  cups  sugar,  two-thirds  cup  of  milk,  butter  nearly  as 
large  as  an  egg.  Boil  10  minutes,  beat  till  almost  cold, 
and  flavor  with  vanilla.     This  is  very  nice;  try  it. 

Mrs.  Florence  E.  Russ. 

Lady  Cake. 

%,  cup  butter,  1  cup  sugar,  3  cups  flour,  1  cup  luke 
warm  water,  5  eggs  (whites)  2  teaspoons  Dixie  baking  pow- 
der, 1  teaspoon  of  essence.  Cream  butter,  stir  in  the  sugar 
then  J  of  the  water,  then  a  tablespoon  of  the  flour,  alterna- 
ting with  the  water,  then  -one  half  of  the  eggs  beaten  stiff' 
then  your  powder,  then  the  rest  of  eggs. 

Mrs.  Rosenbaum. 


74  Cakes. 

Angel  Food  Cake  Filling. 

Grate  1  cocoanut,  1  pound  of  grated  chocolate,  take 
the  white  of  4  eggs,  1  pound  of  powdered  sugar,  let  it  cook 
as  in  boiled  icing.  When  it  begins  to  rope  take  half  of  it 
and  mix  with  the  chocolate,  the  other  half  mix  with  cocoa- 
nut,  reserving  enough  of  the  cocoanut  to  sprinkle  on  top  of 
the  cake.  Spread  over  the  first  layer  of  cake  the  chocolate 
filling,  then  the  next  layer  the  cocoanut  filling,  and  so  on 
till  it  is  the  desired  size,  the  cocoanut  filling  to  be  on  top 
of  cake.  Mrs.  Oliver. 

Wine  Cakes. 

1  ounce  of  Fleshmen's  yeast  dissolved  in  \  pint  water; 
add  flour  to  make  thick  batter,  set  it  to  rise.  When  it  rises 
sufficiently,  add  the  yolks  of  4  eggs,  1  tablespoonful  of  but- 
ter, a  little  nutmeg,  a  few  drops  of  Dixie  lemon  extract, 
and  flour  to  make  a  thick  batter,  set  aside  for  30  minutes. 
Grease  and  flour  12  or  15  small  fancy  cake  moulds,  fill 
them  J  full;  let  them  rise  i  hour,  put  in  oven  and  bake  20 
or  25  minutes.  For  the  syrup  take  1  pound  white  sugar, 
1  cup  water  J  of  a  lemon,  a  piece  of  nutmeg  or  mace,  a 
small  piece  of  cinnamon,  cook  to  a  string  syrup,  flavor 
with  unfermented  wine.  When  cakes  are  baked  soak  thor- 
oughly in  syrup,  set  in  a  seive  to  drain. 

The  Manhattan. 

Hickory  Nut  Cake. 

Cake  same  as  for  Marshmallow  Filling,  1  cup  of  sour 
cream,  1  cup  of  sugar,  1  cup  of  hickory  nut  meat,  chopped 
fine,  boil  all  together,  cool  and  spread  between  the  layers. 


Cakes,  75 

Delicious  Cake. 

1  cup  of  sug-ar,  2  eg-g-s,  >2  cupful  of  butter,  l/2  cupful 
of  milk,  and  H  cupfuls  of  flour,  unsifted;  cream  the  butter 
and  sug-ar  tog-ether,  beat  the  eg-gs  lig-ht,  and  mix  well, 
then  add  %  teaspoonful  of  Dixie  baking-  powder,  and  bake 
in  a  moderate  oven.     This  makes  a  delicious  layer  cake. 


Oake  Featherweight. 

2  tablespoons  butter,  6  eg-g-s  (reserve  2  whites  for 
icing-)  2  cups  sug-ar.  3  cups  flour,  2  teaspoons  Dixie  bak- 
ing- powder,  £  cup  milk,  \  pound  chocolate,  vanilla  ex- 
tract to  taste,  1  teaspoonful  cinnamon.  Bake  in  jelly  tins 
with  anything-  between  layers. 

Miss  Cocker. 

Lip  Kucke  (German  Fruit  Cake;. 

6  eg-g-s,  1  cup  brown  sugar,  1  cup  black  molasses,  y2 
pound  grated  chocolate,  1  cup  pecans  (chopped),  h,  pound 
citron,  allspice  and  cinnamon  to  suit  taste,  3  cups  flour,  1 
teaspoonful  Dixie  baking-  powder.  Bake  in  a  moderate 
oven.     Slice  and  ice.  Miss  Cocker. 

Eggless  Cake. 

1  cup  of  sug-ar,  1  cup  of  sour  milk,  1  cup  of  chopped 
raisins,  J  cup  of  butter,  2  cups  of  flour,  1  teaspoon  of  Dixie 
baking-  powder,  \  of  a  teaspoon  of  each  of  the  spices;  cinna- 
mon, cloves  and  nutmeg-. 

Mrs.  D.  Rosenbaum. 


76 


Creams  and  Custards. 


m  Creams  and  Custards.  * 

;c®))  (c®)] 


"But  please  your  honor,  quoth  the  Peasant, 
This  same  dessert  is  very  pleasant." 

— Pope. 


Floating  Island. 

Put  one  pint  of  milk  into  a  double  boiler.  Separate  3 
eggs,  beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth,  drop  them  by  spoon- 
fuls over  the  top  of  the  milk,  allow  them  to  remain  for  just 
a  moment,  then  lift  carefully.  Beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs 
with  two  tablespoons  of  sugar;  add  them  to  the  hot  milk, 
cook  till  the  mixture  slightly  thickens.  Be  very  careful 
that  it  does  not  curdle;  take  from  the  fire,  add  a  teaspoon  of 
vanilla  and  turn  into  the  dish  in  which  it  is  to  be  served. 
Heap  the  whites  of  the  eggs  over  the  top  and  serve  cold. 

Mrs.  Peirce. 

Orange  or  Pineapple  Ambrosia. 

Have  the  orange  or  pineapple  broken  up  into  tiny 
pieces.  Beat  to  a  stiff  froth  the  whites  of  2  eggs  with 
sugar.  Place  in  a  glass  bowl  a  layer  of  the  fruit,  sprinkle 
over  it  a  little  sugar,  then  spread  on  a  little  of  the  beaten 
egg,  over  that  sprinkle  grated  cocoanut,  then  another  layer 
of  fruit,  and  so  on  till  the  dish  is  full. 

Mrs.  Minnie  Wilkinson. 


Creams  and  Custards.  77 


Pineapple  Sponge. 


1  small  fresh  pineapple,  or  a  can  of  the  fruit.  Must  be 
chopped  up  and  put  with  its  juice  in  a  sauce  pan  with  a 
small  cupful  of  sugar  and  a  cupful  of  water.  If  canned 
pineapple  is  used  add  less  sugar.  Simmer  10  minutes,  £  a 
package  of  g-elatine  should  be  soaked  in  J  a  cupful  of  water 
for  two  hours.  When  ready  add  the  gelatine,  take  from 
the  fire  at  once,  and  strain  into  a  tin  basin.  Set  the  basin 
in  a  pan  of  ice  water  or  in  the  refrigerator,  and  when  the 
mixture  beg-ins  to  thicken,  stir  in  the  whites  of  4  eg-gs, 
beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Pour  into  a  mould  and  set  away  to 
harden.     Serve  with  cream. 

Mrs.  F.  A.  Dicks. 


PEACH   FLOAT. 

•  1  pint  canned  peaches,  cook  ten  minutes,  the  whites  of 
three  eg-g-s  well  beaten,  add  a  tablespoonful  at  a  time  until 
thoroug-bly  mixed,  then  beat  in  sug-ar  to  taste.  A  very 
nice  dessert.  Mrs.  F.  A.  Lyons. 


Charlotte  Rnsse. 

1  quart  of  thick  cream,  l/2  pint  of  milk,  1  ounce  of  gel- 
atine, yolks  of  5  egg-s,  whites  of  7  eg-gs,  12  ounces  of 
sugar.  Dissolve  the  g-elatine  in  the  boiling-  milk;  take  it 
off  the  fire  and  stir  in  the  yolks  of  eg-gs,  then  the  sugar 
and  Dixie  vanilla  flavoring.  When  the  custard  is  cool, 
before  it  cong-eals,  stir  in  the  cream,  whipped  to  a  froth, 
and  then  the  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs. 


78  ( 'reams  and  Custards. 

Tapioca  Cream. 

Take  two  tablespoons  of  tapioca  soaked  over  night,  or 

say  three  hours,  in  water   enough    to   cover    it.     Boil    this 

with  one  quart  of  new  milk  in  a    double    boiler.     Add   one 

cup  of    sugar    and  a   little  salt.     Beat  the  yolks  of  3  eggs 

thoroughly,  and  stir  them  into  the  milk  when  it  has  boiled 

ten  minutes.     Remove  from  the  fire  and    stir    rapidly  for  5 

minutes.     Flavor  with  one    teaspoonful    of    Dixie  Vanilla, 

pour  into  a  baking  dish,  beat  the    whites    of  the   eggs  to  a 

stiff  froth,    pour    over   the    top.     Sift    sugar  over  this  and 

brown.     Serve  cold  with  cream. 

Mrs.  F.  A.   Dicks 

Cocoanut   Charlotte  Russe. 

Make  a  sponge  cake  in  a  deep  round  pan,  cut  out  the 
centre  leaving  about  an  inch  of  crust.  Fill  with  cocoanut 
custard,  cover  the  top  with  whipped  cream,  put  in  a  cold 
place  till  needed. 

Cocoanut  Custard . 

6  eggs,  white  of  5,  1  pint  of  milk,  1  cup  sugar,  1  cup 
cocoanut.  1  teaspoon  cornstarch,  1  teaspoon  Dixie  Vanilla 
flavoring,  small  cup  of  cream  whipped  light  with  the  white 
ol  1  egg.  Mrs.   Annie  Flake. 

Ambrosia. 

Place  in  a  glass  bowl  alternate  layers  of  sliced  oranges 
and  grated  cocoanut,  sprinkling  sugar  on  each  layer  of 
orange.     Having  top  layer  cocoanut. 

Mrs.  Oliver. 


Orecmis  and  Citstarcfo.  79 

Strawberry  Float. 

1  pint  of  strawberries,  2  eggs,  2  cups  of  pulverized 
sugar,  1  pint  of  milk,  vanilla  flavoring.  Crush  the  berries. 
Separate  the  whites  of  the  eggs  from  the  yolks,  beat  the 
former  to  a  stiff  dry  froth,  and  add  the  sugar.  „  Put  in 
crushed  berries  gradually,  beating-  all  the  while  until  the 
whole  is  a  stiff  pile  of  rosy  cream,  place  in  glass  dish  and 
set  on  ice.  Beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  in  half  a  cupful  of 
the  milk,  place  remainder  of  milk  on  the  stove  in  pan  set 
in  another  containing-  boiling-  water.  When  the  milk  is  hot 
add  sugar,  eg-gs  and  vanilla  to  taste,  and  set  on  ice  to  cool. 
This  sauce    is    to    be    poured    in    serving-  about   the  frothy 

bernes'  Mrs.  J.   W.  Wilkinson. 


Lemon  Cream. 

Yolks  of  4  eg-gs,  4  tablespoons  granulated  sugar,  juice 
and  grated  rind  of  1  lemon,  2  tablespoons  boiling  water. 
Let  simmer  till  it  thickens.  When  cold,  just  before  serv- 
ing-, add  the  whites  beaten  with    2    tablespoons    of    sugar, 

mixing  thoroughly. 

Miss  May  Williams. 


80  Sherbet  and  Ice  Cream. 

i      Sherbet  and  lee  Gream. 


?€€^€«^€^€€€€€€«€€€€$€€«€€€!€«€«€€^€ 


Freeze  ice  cream  in  a  warm  place,  the  cream  freezes 
more  rapidly  when  the  ice  melts  quick. 

Vanilla  Ice  Cream. 

Put  one  quart  of  milk  on  to  boil  in  double  boiler.  Beat 
tog-ether  the  yolks  of  6  eggs,  6  tablespoons  of  sugar,  stir 
into  boiling  milk,  cook  about  a  minute,  stirring  constantly. 
Strain  it,  allow  to  cool,  add  1  tablespoon  of  Dixie  Vanilla 
and  the  beaten  whites  of  eggs  and  freeze. 

Mrs.  Briggs. 

Lemon  Ice  Cream. 

6  lemons,  3  quarts  milk,  \\  pints  sugar.  Pour  milk 
over  the  lemon  peels  and  let  it  stand  1  hour,  strain  and 
sweeten,  and  when  nearly  frozen,  stir  in  the  juice  of  the 
lemons.     This  makes  one  gallon. 

Miss  Mary  Werlein. 

Bravarian  Ice  Cream. 

Sweeten  1  pint  of  cream  to  taste,  flavor  with  vanilla  or 
lemon.  Churn  the  cream  to  a  froth;  skim  the  froth  as  it 
rises,  and  put  in  a  glass  dish.  Dissolve  U  tablespoons  of 
gelatine  in  warm  water,  pour  into  the  froth  and  stir  for  15 
minutes.  Pack  or  set  in  ice,  and  it  will  be  ready  for  use 
in  a  few  hours.  Mrs.  S.  S.  Keener. 


Sherbet  and  Ice  Ci  'earn. 


81 


Caramel  Ice  Cream. 

Melt  \\  pounds  of  brown  sugar  in  the  frying*  pan  until 
liquid,  stirring-  all  the  time.  Do  not  let  it  scorch  or  get  too 
dark.  Pour  the  caramel  into  a  pint  of  boiling  milk  by  de- 
grees, mixing  well.  When  cold  strain  into  three  quarts  of 
cream  or  milk  and  freeze.  I  pint  of  the  cream  may  be  whip- 
ped and  added  as  directed.  Mrs.    D.   Rosenbaum. 

Lemon   Sherbet. 

Two-thirds  can  of  condensed  milk,  3  lemons,  juice  and 
grated  rind,  sugar  to  taste.  White  of  2  eggs,  beat  and  put 
in  when  nearly  frozen.  This  is  for  \  gallon,  add  water 
enough  to  nearly  fill  the  can.  Mrs.  F.  R.  H. 


''Remember  the  Maine" 


But  when  in  need  of  ART  GLASS, 
STAINED  GLASS,  BEVELED 
PLATE  GLASS,  or  when  you  want 
your  spotted  Mirrors  Resilvered,  then 


don't  forget  the 


La.  Glass  and  Mirror  Works,  Ltd. 

:509-319  LAFAYETTE!  ST., 

Telephone  1082.  NEW  ORLEANS,   LA. 


82  Sherbet  and  Ice  Cream. 

Philadelphia  Ice  Cream. 

2  cans  condensed  milk,  4  cans  cows  milk,  2  cans  sweet 

cream;  whites  of  2  eggs,  whipped  to  a  stiff  froth.     Flavor 

to  taste  with    vanilla    or    lemon;    add    whites  just    before 

freezing-. 

Mrs.  S.  S.  Keener. 

Peach  Ice  Cream. 

1  pint  cream,  1  pint  milk,  1  cup  sugar,  1  quart  peach 
pulp.  Rub  the  peaches  through  a  sieve  to  produce  a  pu]p, 
add  a  small  quantity  of  the  sugar  and  set  aside.  Place  the 
cream  and  milk  over  the  fire  to  allow  them  to  come  exactly 
to  the  boiling  point,  remove  and  stir  in  the  remainder  of 
the  sugar  and  set  aside  to  cool,  then  add  the  peach  pulp 
and  freeze.  Mrs.  G.  M.  Quarles. 

Cream  Cheese  Ice  Cream. 

5  cream  cheese,  sweeten  and  flavor  to  taste;  add  1  quart 

of  sweet  milk  and  freeze. 

Mrs.  Annie  Flake. 

Strawberry  Cream  Cheese  Ice  Cream. 

3  cream  .cheese,  separate  the  cream  from  the  cheese, 
mash  cheese  to  a  paste,  add  one  can  of  condensed  milk, 
and  sugar  to  taste,  add  the  cream;  then  \\  pint  of  sweet 
milk,  1  glass  ice  cold  water,  Dixie  Vanilla  Flavoring,  the 
beaten  whites  of  2  eggs,  and  lastly  the  mashed  and  sweet- 
ened strawberries.  Beat  all  together  well  and  freeze.  This 
makes  f  gal,  delicious  cream.  Mrs.  E-  P.  Lowe. 


Sherbet  and  Ice  Cream.  83 

Chocolate  Cream. 

12  eggs,  3  cups  sugar,  h  gallon  milk,  £  cup  chocolate 
or  cocoa,  vanilla  extract.  Beat  all  the  eggs,  except  the 
whites  of  3  with  the  sugar  and  chocolate;  add  the  milk  and 
then  boil  to  a  thin  custard.  When  it  it  beg'ins  to  freeze, 
add  the  whites  of  the  eggs. 

Mrs.  Annie  Flake. 

Coffee  Frozen. 

•  Prepare  the  coffee  as  for  the  table;  add  cream  and 
sugar,  making  it  sweeter  than  for  drinking.  Freeze  and 
serve  in  after  dinner  coffee  cups.  Mrs.  Oliver. 

Pineapple  Snow. 

1  gallon  rich  milk,  1  can  pineapple,  1  pound  of  sugar; 
beat  all  together  and  freeze. 

Mrs.  H.  W.  Knickerbocker. 

Frozen  Cream  Cheese. 

One  quart  of  sweet  milk  to  6  cream  cheeses,  with  the 
cream,  £  teaspoon  of  soda.  Sweeten  to  taste,  flavor  with 
Dixie  Vanilla  Extract.  Mrs.  Holmes. 

Bisque. 

\  g-allon  cream  whipped,  yolks  of  9  eggs,  3  pounds  of 
granulated  sugar.  Mix  the  eggs  with  i  gallon  of  milk 
which  has  been  boiled  with  vanilla  bean  in  it,  add  the 
sugar  to  the  whipped  cream,  then  mix  all  ingredients  to- 
gether, beating  well.  Then  freeze.  This  makes  about 
24  bisques.  Miss  Wasson. 


84  Candies. 


■m^^CandieSo  €##« 


Pecan  Candy. 


Take  two  large  cups  of  granulated  sugar,  put  into  a 
dry  pot  and  stir  constantly  till  every  bit  of  sugar  is  dis- 
solved. Soon  as  it  becomes  a  syrup  pour  it  over  your  pre- 
pared nuts.  In  a  few  minutes  it  will  be  cold  enough  to  cut 
into  small  pieces.  P.  S.  M. 

Pecan  Candy. 

1  cup  sugar,  white  of  one  egg,  1  cup  pecans,  (picked 
well)  stir  and  mix  well  without  beating,  place  thin  layer 
in  pie  pan,  bake  light  brown  in  moderately  hot  oven. 

Mrs.   J.  H.  Magruder. 

Caramel  Candy. 

One  cake  Baker's  chocolate  (not  sweet,  J  lb.)  3  poifnds 
brown  sugar,  %  pound  butter.  1  tea  cup  milk.  Mix  milk 
and  sugar  and  boil  well  together,  then  add  the  butter,  stir- 
ing  until  melted,  then  add  the  grated  chocolate  and  boil 
hard  until  done.  Test  by  dropping  on  a  plate  and  cooling 
rapidly.  .  Mrs.  Christian  Keener. 

Cocoanut  Pralines. 

One  cup  of  peeled  and  grated  cocoanut,  two  cups  of 
sugar,  i  cup  of  water.  Put  sugar  and  water  on  to  boil, 
cook  it  until  when  dropped  in  cold  water  it  is  brittle,  add 
a  piece  of  butter  size  of  a  walnut,  put  in  the  grated  cocoa- 
nut,  and  cook  just  a  few  minutes,  then  drop  on  buttered 
plates  or  tins.  For  the  white  use  white  sugar,  for  the 
brown  pralines,  the  best  brown  sugar,  and  to  color  them 
pink,  use  fruit  coloring.  Miss  Clara  Biixington 


Pickles  and  Preserves. 

pickles  and  Nsertfss.x 


In  making-  pickles  the  vinegar  should  be  very  strong 
and  should  only  be  brought  to  the  boiling  point  and  im- 
mediately poured  on  pickles.  Cook  in  porcelain  or  granite 
kettle.  Never  put  up  pickles  in  anything  that  has  held 
grease  of  any  kind.  The  nicest  way  to  put  up  pickles  is 
bottling;  sealing  while  hot  and  keeping  in  a  cool  dark 
place.  The  brine  for  pickles  should  be  strong  enough  to 
bear  an  egg;  make  it  in  the  proportion  of  a  heaping  pint 
of  coarse  salt  to  a  gallon  of  water. 

Sweet  Pickles. 

■J  peck  green  tomatoes,  sliced;  9  cucumbers,  1  head  cab- 
bage, 1  dozen  seed  onions,  3  pods  of  green  pepper.  Place 
in  a  jar  alternately  with  salt  and  let  stand  over  night. 
1  ounce  each  of  white  and  black  mustard  seed,  |  ounce 
turmeric,  1  ounce  celery  seed,  \  box  mustard,  1  pound  sugar. 
Mix  together  with  cider  vinegar.     Let  it  come   to   a    boil, 

then  put  in  a  jar  and  seal. 

Mrs.  W.  W.  Sutcliffe. 

Sweet  Pickle  Peaches. 

1  quart  good  vinegar,  2  cups  of  sugar,  1  teaspoon  of 
cinnamon.  Stick  2  or  3  whole  cloves  in  peaches.  After 
peeling,  put  fruit  in  with  sugar  and  vinegar;  boil  till  fruit 
is  very  tender,  and  juice  thickened. 

Mrs.  Ella  Everett,  Shubuta,  Miss. 


86  Pickles  and  Preserves. 

Chow-Chow. 

1  peck  tomatoes,  5  onions,  3  heads  cabbage,  1  dozen 
green  peppers.  Chop  all  separately,  then  mix  well,  put  in 
salt  and  let  drain  all  night.  Put  in  a  kettle  one  pound  of 
brown  sugar,  £  teaspoon  grated  horseradish,  1  teaspoon 
ground  black  pepper,  1  teaspoon  ground  mustard,  1  table- 
spoon of  celery  seed  and  1  tablespoon  of  white  mustard 
seed.  Cover  with  a  pint  of  vinegar,  boil  and  pour  over 
chopped  mixture.  Mrs.  W.  W.  Sutcliffe. 

Chow-Chow. 

1  dozen  onions,  1  peck  green  tomatoes,  4  heads  of  cab- 
bage, 1  dozen  cucumbers,  (in  brine  3  days),  3  oz.  white  mus- 
tard seed,  1  oz.  celery  seed,  4  tablespoons  whole  pepper,  1 
oz.  turmeric,  small  box  of  mustard,  2J  lbs.  brown  sugar. 
Chop  onions,  cabbage  and  tomatoes  day  before  and  sprinkle 
with  salt  in  proportion,  \  pt.  to  a  peck;  next  day  drain  out 
brine.  Tablespoon  pulverized  alum.  Put  all  in  kettle  cover 
with  weak  vinegar,  3  tablespoons  of  turmeric  let  it  come  to 
a  boil  then  drain  off.  Then  cover  with  strong  vinegar 
and  add  all  the  spice  and  sugar,  simmer  slowly  \  hour  and 
bottle.  Mrs.  F.  A.   Lyons. 

Spiced  Grapes. 

Small  dark  grapes  are  excellent  for  this.  5  pounds 
grapes,  4  pounds  sugar,  1  quart  vinegar,  1  tablespoon 
cinnamon,  1  tablespoon  cloves.  Cook  for  sometime,  skim- 
ming off  the  seeds  as  they  rise  to  top,  in  cooking.  Cook 
down  to  a  sauce.     To  eat  with  vegetables. 

Mrs.  Ella  Everett,  Shubuta,  Miss. 


Pickles  and  Preserves.  87 

Green  Tomato  Sweet  Pickles. 

Slice  1  gallon  green  tomatoes  and  salt  well.  Let  stand 
until  morning-,  drain  and  pour  on  fresh  water,  let  stand  2 
or  3  hours.  Slice  12  large  onions;  put  in  kettle  a  layer  of 
tomatoes  and  a  layer  of  onions,  cover  with  best  vinegar  and 
boil  until  tender;  then  add  1  tablespoon  of  mace,  1  table- 
spoon of  spice,  1  tablespoon  of  nutmeg,  1  tablespoon  black 
pepper,  1  tablespoon  mustard,  1  tablespoon  cloves,  1  pound 
brown  sugar   1  oz.  white  mustard  seed. 

Mrs.  S.  S.  Keener. 

Green  Tomato  Sauce,  or  Soy» 

2  gallons  green  tomatoes  without  peeling,  sliced;  12 
large  onions,  2  quarts  best  vinegar,  1  quart  sugar,  2  table- 
spoons salt,  2  tablespoons  ground  mustard,  1  tablespoon 
black  pepper,  1  tablespoon  allspice,  1  tablespoon  cinnamon, 
ground;  1  tablespoon  cloves.  Mix  all  together,  stew  until 
tender,  stir  often  to  prevent  scorching;    put   in    fruit   jars. 

A  fine  soy  for  all  kinds  of  fish  and  meat. 

Mrs.  Ella  Everett. 

Peach  Sweet  Pickles. 

Make  a  syrup  of  1  quart  of  vinegar,  5  pounds  of  sugar, 

1  tablespoonful  each  of  cloves,  allspice  and  stick  cinnamon. 

Tie  the  spice  in  a  thin  cloth,  drop  into  the  syrup,  let  come 

to  a  good  boil.    If  the  fruit  is  peaches,  peel  them  and  leave 

stones  in;  if  pears,  peel  and  core.  Take  8  pounds  of  the 
fruit  and  add  to  syrup  (after  the  fruit  has  been  through 
the  lime  water  preparation).  Let  the  fruit  boil  until  it  is 
transparent  and  begins  to  sink  in  the  syrup,  when  it  is 
ready  for  the  jars.  Mrs.  J.  B.  Walker, 

Mississippi  City. 


88  Pickles  and  Preserves. 

Preparation  for  Preserving  Ripe  Fruit. 

Have  1  gallon  of  cold  water  in  an  earthern  bowl.  Put 
in  the  water  1  large  teacup  of  unslacked  lime,  stir  well, 
then  put  in  as  much  fruit  as  water  will  cover.  Let  stand 
about  6  minutes,  then  rinse  in  clear  water  (do  not  let  it 
remain  in  the  water);  continue  putting-  your  fruit  in  lime 
water  and  then  in  clear,  until  the  kettleful  is  prepared. 
Let  the  fruit  remain  in  lime  water  two  minutes  longer, 
every  bowl  full  as  the  acid  weakens  the  lime.  This  lime 
water  will  prepare  a  larg-e  kettle  of  fruit.  The  lime  water 
toug-hens  the  fruit  so  it  can  be  boiled,  also  assists  in  pre- 
venting- the  preserves  from  fermenting-. 

Mrs.  J.  B.  Walker. 

Spiced  Currants. 

Wash  thoroughly  1  pound  of  currants.  Cover  with  cold 
water  and  vineg-ar  equal  parts,  1  teaspoon  of  cloves,  cina- 
mon  or  any  spice  desired.  Tie  spice  in  muslin  cloth;  boil 
until  currants  are  soft,  add  1  pound  of  sug-ar,  boil  half  hour. 
Very  appetizing-  with  cold  meats. 

Mrs.   A.  J.  Crebbin. 

Spiced  Grapes. 

Eig-ht  pounds  of  grapes,  5  pounds  clarified  sug-ar,  \y2 
pints  vineg-ar,  cloves,  alspice,  ground  cinamon  to  taste. 
Pop  the  grapes  out  of  the  skins,  and  boil  till  you  can  rub 
throug-h  a  collander  to  remove  seed.  Then  put  back  on 
fire,  with  the  skins,  vineg-ar,  sugar  and  spices,  boil  two 
hours.  Miss  May  Williams. 


Pickles  and  Preserves.  89 

Unfermented   Grape  Wine. 

Wash  and  pick  grapes,  put  in  porcelain  kettle,  let 
fruit  heat  until  skins  burst.  Pour  into  cheese  cloth  bags 
and  drip,  then  put  juice  back  on  stove;  adding  not  quite  J 
pint  white  sug-ar  to  1  pint  juice;  boil  rapidly  4  or  5  minutes; 
bottle  and  cork  tig-htly,  seal  with  wax  or  put  into  fruit 
jars. 

Mrs.  Ella  Everett,  Shubuta,  Miss. 


For  Preserving  Figs  and  Pears. 

To  8  pounds  of  sug-ar  add  the  strained  juice  of  2  lem- 
ons, and  a  table  spoonful  of  stick  cinnamon.  Cut  the  rinds 
of  the  lemons,  and  put  in  the  kettle  with  the  other  things; 
make  the  syrup  with  as  little  water  as  possible.  When  the 
syrup  boils,  put  in  12  pounds  of  either  fig-s  or  pears  which 
have  been  through  the  lime  process.  Let  boil  until  the 
fruit  looks  clear,  and  begins  to  sink,  when  it  can  be  put  in 
the  jars.  Mrs.  J.  B.  Walker. 

Sour  Orange  Peeling  Preserves. 

Grate  the  yellow  off  of  the  orang-e,  then  peel  it  in  four 
pieces,  soak  them  two  days  in  water  (water  must  be  chang-- 
ed  every  day  to  draw  the  bitter  off);  third  day  scald  and 
drain  well,  then  weig-h  them;  use  one  pound  of  sug-ar  to  1 
pound  of  peeling,  put  the  sug-ar  in  just  enough  water  to 
cover  it  well,  boil  until  a  g-ood  syrup  is  obtained,  then  put 
in  the  peeling-s  and  cook  until  the  syrup  is  quite  thick. 

Mrs.  M.  C  D.  Lehde. 


90  Miscellaneous 

Isce 


Roast  Turkey  with  Oyster  Dressing. 

After  cleaning  and  thoroughly  washing-  the  turkey, 
pour  boiling- water  all  over  it  to  plump  it  or  make  it  tender. 
Rub  it  well  with  salt,  then  prepare  dressing-,  as  follows: 
about  one  loaf  of  stale  bread,  after  it  has  soaked  in  hot 
water  until  soft,  squeeze  it  dry.  Chop  one  iarg-e  onion,  a 
small  portion  of  celery,  parsley  and  thyme.  Half  pound  of 
sausag-e  meat,  add  salt  and  pepper  to  season.  Mix  .all  to- 
g-ether well.  Put  in  a  frying-  pan  of  hot  lard  and  fry  until 
brown,  stirring-  constantly  to  prevent  burning-.  When  the 
dressing-  is  done,  stir  in  two  or  three  dozen  oysters  chopped 
tolerably  fine.  Stuff  the  turkey  with  it  and  put  what  is 
left  in  the  pan.  Sift  a  little  flour  over  the  turkey  to  brown 
it,  also  one  tablespoon  lard.  Fill  the  pan  nearly  full  of 
hot  water  and  baste  the  turkey  with  it,  turning-  it  occasion- 
ly  until  thoroug-hly  cooked  and  brown. 

Mrs.  J.  W.  Billington. 

Boiled  Flour. 

Tie  tig-htly  in  a  close  linen  cloth  one  pound  of  flour. 
After  tying-,  moisten  with  water  and  dredge  well  with  flour 
'till  a  coating  is  formed  to  prevent  the  water  entering  the 
flour.  Boil  four  or  five  hours  and  let  the  flour  remain  tied 
in  the  cloth  until  it  is  cold.  It  will  be  a  hard,  solid  lump 
and  is  a  substitute  for  arrow-root.  Prepare  by  grating. 
Excellent  in  diarrhea  or  other  bowel  affections. 

Diet  for  Infants. 

Dissolve  a  piece  of  gelatine  an  inch  square  in  half  a 
gill  of  warm  water;  when  dissolved,  add  a  gill  of  milk;  put 
on  the  fire,  and  when  boiling  add  half  a  teaspoonful  of 
arrow-root  or  boiled  flour-ball  When  sufficiently  boiled, 
take  off  the  fire  and  stir  in  two  tablespoonsful  of  sweet 
cream.  This  may  be  given  to  very  young  infants;  and  as 
they  grow  older  the  food  may  be  made  stronger  by  using 
more  milk  or  cream.  Mrs.  Florence  E.  Russ 


Miscellaneous.  91 


Cream  Puffs. 

One  cup  boiling-  water,  £  cup  butter,  put  these  on  the 
stove,  when  boiling-  add  one  cup  of  flour,  stir  five  minutes; 
put  this  off  until  nearly  cold,  then  stir  in  one  egg  at  a  time 
until  you  g-et  in  five  egg's.  Soda  size  of  a  pea  dissolved  in 
teaspoonful  cold  water  and  put  into  the  mixture.  Have 
your  tins  hot.  Bake  twenty-five  minutes  and  do  not  re- 
move from  tins  until  cold.  Have  oven  very  hot.  Filling 
— One  pint  milk,  one  cup  sugar,  £  cup  flour,  two  eg-gs,  beat 
yolks  and  flour  together.  Boil  the  milk  and  stir  in  mix- 
ture slowly,  when  it  thickens  take  it  off  and  let  cool  before 
putting-  in  cakes.     Flavor  with  Dixie  vanilla  extract. 

Miss  Clara  Billington. 


Cake  Icing. 

To  the  white  of  1  eg-g-,  add  9  heaped  teaspoons  of  pow- 
dered sugar,  1  even  teaspoon  of  cornstarch,  and  J  teaspoon 
of  cream  of  tartar.  Put  all  in  tog-ether,  and  beat  with  a 
fork  till  too  stiff  to  flow.  The  whites  of  2  eg-gs  and  its  ac- 
companying ingredients  will  ice  a  g-ood  sized  cake.  Flavor 
to  taste.    If  put  on  a  hot  cake,  will  not  crumble  off  readilv. 

'  Mrs.  S.  S.  Bothick. 


The  Way  to  Make  Good  Coffee  and  Tea. 

For  making  coffee  or  tea,  never  boil  the  water  more 
than  three  or  four  minutes  as  most  of  its  natural  properties 
escape  by  evaporation,  leaving  very  insipid  liquid  when 
boiled  very  long,  which  spoils  the  coffee  or  tea.  Never  use 
the  water  left  in  the  tea-kettle  over  night,  but  have  fresh 
boiled  water  always  if  you  want  good  coffee  or  tea. 

For  tea,  have  an  earthen  or  china  pot,  scald  it  out  well 
and  set  on  the  stove,  where  it  will  dry  and  keep  hot,  when 
dry  put  in  two  teaspoonfuls  of  tea,  let  heat  a  minute  or 
two  and  ten  minutes  before  serving,  pour  in  a  pint  of 
fresh  boiling  water. 


92  Miscellaneous. 

Stuffed   Peppers. 

Select  £  dozed  large  green  peppers,  cut  off  the  small 
ends  and  take  out  the  seeds;  then  scald  the  peppers  and 
drain  them.  Take  any  left-over  meat,  (veal  preferred) 
and  chop  very  fine,  then  chop  up  about  two  small  toma- 
toes and  half  of  a  green  pepper;  \  cup  cold  rice,  season 
with  salt  and  a  little  pepper;  mix  well  and  stuff  the  pep- 
pers. Set  them  in  a  pan  half  filled  with  water  and  a  table- 
spoonfull  of  butter  and  a  sprig  of  parsley;  put  in  oven  and 
bake  until  peppers  are  tender  and  brown,  basting  frequent- 
ly. Miss  L.  Klocke. 

Stuffed  Eggs. 

Boil  8  eggs  hard,  when  cold  peal  and  cut  in  half.  Take 
out  the  yolks  very  carefully  so  as  not  to  break  the  whites. 
Mash  the  yolks  and  mix  with  two  teaspoons  melted  butter, 
one  teaspoon  mustard,  three  or  four  pieces  pickled  cucum- 
bers chopped  fine,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Finely  chopp- 
ed ham,  or  celery  seeds  may  be  added. 

C.  Billington. 

Onion  Soup. 

Fry  three  medium  sized  onions  in  butter,  a  light  brown 
color.  Pour  one  pint  rich,  sweet  milk  into  a  granite  boiler 
and  place  upon  the  stove;  when  it  comes  to  a  boil  pour  in 
the  onions  and  season  with  butter,  pepper  and  salt.  Serve 
with  toast.  Mrs.  C.  B.  Sholaks. 


WALTER   A^I^I^E^ISL, 

Dealer  in  Foreign  and  Domestic 

Dry  Goods.    Hosiery,  Notions, 

Gents'  Furnishing  Goods,  Carpets, 
Mattings  and  Window  Shades.... 

1618  and  1620   DRYADES   STREET, 

Bet.  Terpsichore  and  Euterpe,  NEW  ORLEANS,  LA. 


Household  Wniis. 


93 


HOUSEHOLD  HINTS. 


Furniture  Polish. 

1  pint  spirits  of  turpentine,  \  pint  ot  sweet  oil,  3  table- 
spoonsful  of  vinegar,  2  teaspoonsful  flour.     Excellent. 

To  Stiffen  Collars. 

A  little  gumarabic  and  common  soda  added  to  starch, 
gives  extreme  stiffness  and  gloss  to  shirt-bosoms  and 
collars. 

Home  Made  Yeast  Powder. 

1  pound  of  cream  of  tartar,  \  pound  of  soda,  1  pint  of 
flour.    Sift  seven  or  eight  times.    Cover  closely.    Excellent. 

Fat  For  Frying. 

5  pounds  pure  cottonseed  oil,  2  pounds  beef  suet.  Cut 
the  beef  into  small  pieces,  put  into  granite  pot  on  the  back 
of  stove.  Soon  as  the  fat  melts  pour  it  off.  Place  cotton- 
seed oil  in  pot,  then  the  beef  suet.  Cook  together.  When 
it  has  thoroughly  boiled  or  reached  355°  Fahrenheit,  strain 
and  put  away. 

To   Clean  Wall   Paper. 

.  To  1  pint  of  boiling  water,  add  a  full  quart  of  flour 
and  2  tablespoonsful  of  ammonia,  make  into  a  stiff  dough 
and  rub  down  paper  once. 


94  Things  Worth  Knowing 


Dip  iron  rust  spots  in  tartaric  acid  and  hang-  in  the  sun. 

A  sponge  can  be  cleansed  by  soaking-  it  a  few  hours  in 
buttermilk. 

Put  a  few  apples  into  the  box  with  your  cake  and  they 
will  keep  it  moist. 

Hot  water  used  in  a  sponge  cake  makes  it  white.  Cold 
water  produces  a  yellow  cake. 

A  little  borax  or  soda  in  the  dish  water  makes  the 
tinware  brighter  and  is  better  than  soap. 

The  juice  of  half  a  lemon  in  a  tea  cup  of  strong-  black 
coffee  without  sug-ar  will  often  cure  a  sick  headache. 

Leather  sachels  may  be  cleaned  with  a  sponge  dipped 
in  warm  water  in  which  a  little  oxalic  acid  has  been 
dissolved. 

Make  a  heavy  line  of  tar  about  the  paper  on  which  the 
sugar  bowl  stands,  if  you  are  troubled  with  ants  and  they 
will  never  cross  the  tar  line. 

In  making  cake  if  you  have  the  yolks  left  and  do  not 
care  to  use  them  right  away,  cover  them  with  fresh  water 
and  they  will  keep  for  three  days. 

Turpentine  will  drive  away  ants  and  roaches  if  sprink- 
led about  shelves  and  closets.  A  teaspoonful  in  a  pail  of 
warm  water  cleans  paint  excellently.  A  little  in  the  boiler 
on  washing  day  whitens  the  clothes. 

Nothing-  has  proved  to  be  so  great  a  preservative  of 
leather  as  castor  oil,  at  the  same  time  keeping  the  leather 
silky  and  supple.  That  is  because  the  oil  does  not  soak 
into  the  leather,  nor  permit  the  water  to  do  so,  and  pre- 
serves the  natural  condition  and  life  of  the  leather.  As  a 
preservative  next  in  value  is  castor  oil  and  neatfoot,  half 
and  half  mixed. 


Weights  and  Measures.  $ 


The  following-  table  of  weights    and    measures   will  be 
useful,  and  they  have  the  merit  of  being  correct: 

Butter  the  size  of  an  egg — 2  ounces. 

Butter  the  size  of  a  walnut — 1  ounce. 

One  solid  pint  of  chopped  meat — 1  pound. 

Kig"ht  or  ten  eggs — 1  pound. 

One  coffee  cupful  of  butter,  pressed  down — h  pound. 

Four  teaspoonsful— 1  tablespoonsful  liquid. 

One    tablespoonful   of   soft    butter,     well    rounded — 1 
ounce- 
Four  tablespoonsful,  or  half  a  g-ill — 1  wine  glass. 
Two  coffee  cupfuls — 1  pint. 
Two  pints — 1  quart. 
Four  quarts — 1  g-allon. 
Two  tablespoonfuls  liquid — 1  ounce. 
One  tablespoonful  of  salt — 1  ounce. 
Sixteen  ounces — 1  pound,  or  a  pint  of  liquid. 
One  rounded  tablespoonful  of  flour — M  ounce. 
Three  cups  of  corn  meal — 1  pound. 
Four  coffee  cupfuls  of  sifted  flour— 1  pound. 
One  quart  of  unsifted  flour — 1  pound. 
One  pint  of  granulated  sug-ar— 1  pound. 
Two  coffee  cupfuls  of  powdered  sugar — 1  pound. 
One  pint  of  brown  sugar— thirteen  ounces. 
Two  and  a  half  cups  of  powdered  sugar — 1  pound. 


INDEX.  PAGE 

Biscuit 7 

Bisque 83 

Breads 5 

Breakfast  Cakes 11 

Cakes 64-75 

Candies 84 

Chili-con-carni 40 

Cookies 15-17 

Corn   Bread 9 

Crabs 27-32 

Creams  and  Custards 76-79 

Daube 38-39 

Doug-hnuts 15 

Eggs ».  54 

Fish 33-35 

Fowls 41-42 

Ginger  Bread 15-17 

Grape  Wine,  (unfermented) 89 

Grapes,  Spiced 88 

Hash 39 

Household  Hints 93 

Ice  Cream 80-82 

Maccaroni 46-48 

Measures 95 

Meats 36-40 

Miscellaneous 90-92 

Muffins 13 

Oysters 27-32 

Pickles 85-87 

Pies  and  Pastry 60  63 

Preserves " 87-89 

Puddings  and  Sauces 55-59 

Rice 43-47 

Rolls 13 

Salads 50-53 

Sauces,  Fish " 35 

Sherbets 81 

Soups 19-26 

Spag-hetti 47 

Turkish  Bath 16 

Things  Worth  Knowing 91 

Vegetables 43-49 

Weights ,..,,,  95 


Mi 


& 


I  1  1  I  tf 


M 


LIBRARY  OF  CONGRESS 


■ 


0  014  480  083  7  £ 


M'Ewlf/lsiwf 


w  m 


■j  I 


