'<■  <1 


as    a   gi/f  /jiom  . 

'  4  ^^D.i).K,...ik 


NEW  SYSTEM 


\ 


DOMESTIC  COOKERY,) 

FORMED   UPON 

PRINCIPLES  OF  ECONOMY, 


AND    ADAPTED   TO   THE 


USE  OF  PRIVATE  FAMILIES. 


BY    A    LADY. 


SECOND    EDITION. 


boston:  .■  4  ■?  i 

PUBLISHED  BY  ANDREWS  6r  CUMMINGS,  AND  1..  BLAKE, 

Sold  by  them  and  O.  C.  Greenleaf ;  by  Cushing  &  Appleton,  Salern  ; 

V".  Sawyer  &  Co.  and  Thomas  &  Whipple,  NeTuburyport ;  C.  Peirce 

nd  Thomas  &  Tai)paib  Portimouth;  T.  Clark,  Portland;  H.  Cash-' 

ig.   Providence  ;  Hudson  &  Goodwin,  Hartford;   I.  Beers  &  Co. 

'eiuliaven;  Brisban  &  Brannan,  Seivyork  ;   Bachus  6*  Whitings 

bany ;  Parker  &  Bliss,  Troy  ;  S.  F.  Bradford,  and  C  &  A.  Conrad 

Co.  Philadelphia ;  Warner  &  Hanna,  Baltimore  ;  and  E.  Morford, 

harleston,  S.  C. 

1907. 


*  ?C  c?  F 


^li  I 


^^f'.t 


} 


ADVERTISEMENT. 


AS  the  directions  which  follow  were 
intended  for  the  conduct  of  the  families 
of  the  Authoresses  own  daughters^  and 
for  the  arrangement  of  their  table ^  so  as 
to  unite  a  good  figure  with  proper  econo^ 
my^  she  has  avoided  all  excessive  luxury^ 
such  as  essence  ofham^  and  that  wasteful 
expenditure  of  large  quantifies  of  meat 
for  gravif,  zvhich  so  greatly  contributes 
to  keep  up  the  price^  and  is  no  less  inju- 
rious  to  those  who  eat^  than  to  those  whose 
penury  bids  them  abstain.  Many  receipts 
are  given  for  things  which^  being  in  dailij 
se^  the  mode  of  preparing  them  maij  be 
supposed  too  loell  known  to  require  a 
place  in  a  cookery  book ;  yet  how  rarely 
do  we  meet  zvith  fine  incited  butter^  good 
toast  and  water ^^  or  zvell  made  coffee  ! 


ADVERTISEMEKT. 


She  makes  no  apology  for  minuteness  in 
some  articles^  or  for  leaving  others  un^ 
named^  because  she  Korites  not  for  pro- 
fessed cooks.  This  little  zvork  would 
have  been  a  treasure  to  herself  xvhen  she 
frst  set  out  in  life^  and  she  therefore 
hopes  it  may  be  useful  to  others.  In 
that  idea  it  is  given  to  the  public^  and  as 
she  will  receive  from  it  no  emolument^  so 
she  trusts  it  will  escape  without  censure. 


M 


CONTENTS. 


Page 


Miscellaneous  Observations  for  the  use  of  the  Mistress 

of  a  Family,  1 
Different  Methods  of  cooking  the  several  kinds  of 

Fish,  I 17 

Observations  on  dressing  Fish,  17 20 

On  dressing  Meats,  20 77 

On  dressing  Poultry,  77 89 

On  making  Pies,  89 94 

On  making  Soups,  94 — 103 

On  making  Gravies  and  Sauces,  103 — 113 

On  making  Vinegars  and  Pickles,  1 1 3 — 1 26 

On  making  Stews,  126—129 

On  making  Sallads  and  boiling  Vegetables,  129 — 132 

.Small  Dishes  for  Supper,  133 

Forcemeat  for  Patties,  Balls,  or  Stuffing,  1 34 

Pastry,  135—143 

Puddings,  143—160 

Sweet  Dishes,  160—187 

Fruits,  187—211 

Ices,  211—213 

Cakes,  213—229 

French  Bread,  229 

To  make  and  preserve  Yeast,  230 

To  pot  and  roast  Cheese,  231 

To  poach  Eggs,  232 

On  managing  a  Dairy,  232 — 236 

Home  Brewery,  236— 24S 

Cookery  for  the  Sick,  248 — 264 

Cookery  for  the  Poor,  264—268 

Useful  Directions  to  give  to  Servants,  269 — 27(> 


A  2 


MISCELLANEOUS  OBSERVATIONS 

FOR  THE  DSE  OF 

THE  MISTRESS  OF  A  FAMILY  ; 

BT  WHICH  MUCH  MONEY  WILL  BE  SAVED,  AND  THE  GSKERAL 
APPEARANCE  GREATLY  IMPROVED, 


THE  mistress  of  a  family  should  always 
remember  that  the  welfare  and  good  management 
of  the  house  depend  on  the  eye  of  the  superior  ; 
and  consequently  that  nothing  is  too  trifling  for 
her  notice,  whereby  waste  may  be  avoided  ;  and 
this  attention  is  of  more  importance,  now  that  the 
price  of  every  necessary  of  life  is  increased  to  an 
enormous  degree. 

If  a  lady  has  never  been  accustomed,  while  single, 
to  think  of  family  management,  let  her  not  up«n 
that  account  fear  that  she  cannot  attain  it ;  she  may 
consult  others  who  are  more  experienced,  and  ac- 
quaint herself  with  the  necessary  quantities  of  the 
several  articles  of  family  expenditure  in  proportion 
to  the  number  it  consists  of. 

A  minute  account  of  the  annual  income,  and  the 
times  of  payment,  should  be  taken  in  writing  }  like- 


wise  an  estimate  of  the  supposed  amount  of  each 
article  of  expense  ;  and  those  who  are  early  accus- 
tomed to  calculations  on  domestic  articles,  will  ac» 
quire  so  accurate  a  knowledge  of  what  their  estab- 
lishment requires,  as  will  give  them  the  happy- 
medium  between  prodigality  and  parsimony,  without 
acquiring  the  character  of  meanness. 

Ready  money  should  be  paid  for  all  such  thing?!  as 
come  not  into  weekly  bills ;  and  the  best  places  Tor 
purchasing  be  attended  to.  In  some  articles  a  dis- 
count of  five  per  cent,  is  allowed  in  London,  and 
other  large  cities;  and  those  who  thus  pay  are  usually 
best  served.  Under  the  idea  of  buying  cheap,  many 
people  go  to  new  shops  ;  but  it  is  safest  to  deal  with 
people  of  established  credit,  who  do  not  d  ispose  of 
bad  goods  by  underselling. 

To  make  people  wait  for  their  money  injures  them 
greatly,  besides  that  a  higher  price  must  be  charg- 
ed :  perhaps  the  irregularity  of  payment  may  have 
much  evil  influence  on  the  price  of  various  articles, 
and  contribute  to  the  destruction  of  many  families, 
in  gradation  downwards. 

It  is  very  necessary  for  a  woman  to  be  informed 
of  the  prices  and  goodness  of  all  articles  in  common 
use,  and  of  the  best  time?,  as  well  as  places,  for  pur- 
chasing them.  She  should  also  be  acquainted  with 
the  comparative  prices  of  provisions,  in  order  that 
she  may  be  able  to  substitute  those  that  are  most 
reasonable,  when  they  will  answer  as  well,  for  others 
of  the  same  kind,  but  which  are  more  costly.  A  false 


action  of  economy  leads  many  to  purchase  as  bar- 
gains what  is  not  wanted,  and  sometimes  never  is 
used.  Were  this  error  avoided,  more  money  would 
remain  for  other  purposes.  Some  things  are  better 
for  keeping,  and,  being  in  constant  consumption, 
should  be  laid  in  accordingly  ;  such  as  paper,  soap, 
and  candles.     Of  these  more  hereafter. 

A  proper  quantity  of  household  articles  should 
be  always  ready,  and  more  bought  in  before  the 
others  be  consumed,  to  prevent  inconvenience, 
especially  in  the  country. 

A  bill  of  parcels  and  receipts  should  be  required, 
even  if  the  money  be  paid  at  the  time  of  purchase  : 
and,  to  avoid  mistakes,  let  the  goods  be  compared 
with  these  when  brought  home. 

Though  it  is  very  disagreeable  to  suspect  any 
one's  honesty,  and  perhaps  mistakes  have  been  un- 
intentional, yet  it  is  prudent  to  weigh  meat,  sugars, 
&c.  when  brought  in,  and  compare  with  the  charge. 
The  butcher  should  be  ordered  to  send  the  weight 
with  the  meat,  and  the  cook  to  file  these  checks, 
to  be  examined  when  the  weekly  bill  shall  be  de- 
livered. 

A  ticket  should  be  given  by  the  cook  for  each  loaf, 
which  will  on  return  give  the  number  to  be  paid  for. 

Thus  regularly  conducted,  the  exact  state  of 
money  affairs  will  be  known  with  ease  ;  for  it  is 
delay  of  payment  that  occasions  confusion. 

Accounts  should  be  regularly  kept,  and  not  the 
smallest  articles  omitted  to  be  entered  ;  and  if  bal- 


rather  than  of  regular  system.  To  avoid  whicli 
the  following  hints  may  be  useful. 

All  things  likely  to  be  wanted  should  be  in 
readiness  ;  sugars  of  different  qualities  should  be 
kept  broken,  currants  washed,  picked  and  dry  in  a 
jar  ;  spice  pounded,  &c. 

Where  regular  noonings  or  suppers  are  used 
(and  in  every  house  some  preparation  is  necessa- 
ry for  accidental  visitors,)  care  should  be  taken  to 
have  such  things  in  readiness  as  may  be  proper 
for  either  ;  a  list  of  several  will  be  subjoined,  a 
change  of  which  will  be  agreeable,  and  if  properly 
managed  will  be  attended  with  no  great  expense. 

Every  article  should  be  kept  in  that  place  best 
suited  to  it,  as  much  waste  may  thereby  be  avoid- 
ed, viz. 

Vegetables  will  keep  best  on  a  stone  floor  if  the 
air  be  excluded  :  meat  in  a  cold  dry  place  :  sugar 
and  sweetmeats  require  a  dry  place  ;  so  does  salt  ; 
candles  cold,  but  not  damp  :  dried  meats,  hams,  &c. 
the  same  :  all  sorts  of  seeds  for  puddings,  saloop^ 
rice,  &c.  should  be  close  covered  to  preserve  from 
insects.  Flour  should  be  kept  in  a  cool  perfectly 
dry  room,  and  the  bag  being  tied  should  be  changed 
upside  down  and  back  every  week,  and  well  shaken. 
Soap  should  be  cut  with  a  wire  or  twine,  in  pieces 
that  form  a  long  square,  when  first  brought  in,  and 
kept  out  of  the  air  two  or  three  weeks  ;  for  if  it 
dry  quick,  it  will  crack,  and  when  wet  break. 
Put  it  on  a  shelf,  leaving  a  space  between,  and  let 


it  grow  hard  gradually.  Thus,  it  will  save  a  full 
third  in  the  consumption.  Cheese  should  be 
washed  and  wiped  if  you  wish  to  preserve  it  sound, 
and  the  shelves  be  washed  ;  changing  the  place 
every  three  or  four  weeks ;  but  if  it  be  wanted  to 
ripen,  a  damp  cellar  will  bring  it  forward. 

Bread  is  now  so  heavy  an  article  of  expense  that 
all  waste  should  be  guarded  against,  and  having  it 
cut  in  the  room  will  tend  much  to  prevent  it ;  since 
the  scarcity  in  1 795  and  1800,  that  custom  has  been 
much  adopted.  It  should  not  be  cut  until  a  day 
old  ;  earthen  pans  and  covers  keep  it  best. 

Rolls,  muffins,  or  any  sort  of  bread,  may  be 
made  to  taste  new  when  two  or  three  days  old,  by 
dipping  it  uncut  in  water,  and  baking  afresh  or 
toasting. 

Eggs  may  be  bought  cheapest  when  the  hens 
iii'st  begin  to  lay  in  the  spring,  before  they  sit ;  in 
Lent  and  at  Easter  they  become  dear.  They  may 
be  preserved  fresh  by  dipping  them  in  boiling  wa- 
ter, and  instantly  taking  them  out,  or  by  oiling  the 
shell ;  either  of  which  ways  is  to  prevent  the  air 
passing  through  it.  They  should  be  kept  on 
shelves  with  small  holes  to  receive  one  in  each, 
and  be  turned  every  other  day. 

Carrots,  parsnips,  and  beet  roots,  should  be  kept 
in  sand  for  winter  use,  and  neither  they  nor  pota- 
toes be  cleared  fr^om  the  earth. 

Store  onions  preserve  best  hung  up  in  a  dry  cold 
room. 


Straw  to  lay  apples  on  should  be  quite  dry,  t 
prevent  a  musty  taste. 

Large  pears  should  be  tied  up  by  the  stalk. 

Tarragon  gives  the  flavour  of  French  cookery, 
and  in  high  gravies  is  a  great  improvement ;  but 
should  be  added  only  a  short  time  before  serving. 

Basil,  savory,  and  knotted  marjoram,  or  London 
thyme,  to  be  used  when  herbs  are  ordered  ;  but 
with  discretion,  as  they  are  very  pungent. 

Celer)-  seeds  give  the  flavour  of  the  plant  to  soups. 

Parsley  should  be  cut  close  to  the  stalks,  and 
dried  on  tins  in  a  very  cool  oven  :  it  preserves  its 
fla\-our  and  colour,  and  is  vciy  useful  in  winter. 

Artichoke  bottoms  which  have  been  slowly  dri- 
ed, should  be  kept  in  paper  bags ;  and  truflles, 
morels,  lemonpeel,  &c.  in  a  drs^  place  ticketed. 

In  towns,  poultry  being  usually  sold  ready  picked, 
the  feathers,  which  may  occasionally  come  in  in 
small  quantities,  are  neglected  :  bufVjrders  should 
be  given  to  put  them  into  a  tub  fixn:  from  damp, 
and  as  they  dry  to  change  them  into  paper  bags, 
a  few  in  each  ;  they  should  hang  in  a  drv  kitchen 
to  season  ;  fresh  ones  must  not  be  added  to  those 
in  part  dried,  or  they  will  occasion  a  musty  smell, 
but  they  should  go  through  the  same  process.  In 
a  few  months  they  will  be  fit  to  add  to  beds,  or  to 
make  pillo\vs,  without  the  usual  mode  of  drying 
them  in  a  cool  oven,  which  may  be  pursued  if  they 
are  wanted  before  five  or  six  months. 


The  beat  means  to  preserve  blankets  from  moths 
is  to  fold  and  lay  them  under  the  featherbed^  that 
are  in  use,  and  they  should  be  shaken  occasionally. 
When  soiled,  they  should  be  washed,  riOt  scoured. 

Candles  made  in  cool  weather  are  best  ;  and  when 
their  price,  and  that  of  soap,  which  rise  and  fall 
together,  is  likely  to  be  higher,  it  will  be  pru- 
dent to  lay  in  the  stock  of  both.  This  information 
the  chandler  can  always  give  ;  they  are  better  for 
keeping  eight  or  ten  months,  and  will  not  injure 
for  two  years,  if  properly  placed  in  the  cool  ;  and 
there  are  few  articles  that  better  deserve  care  in 
buying,  and  allowing  a  due  quantity  of,  according 
to  the  size  of  the  family. 

The  price  of  starch  depends  upon  that  of  flour  ; 
the  best  will  keep  good  in  a  dry  warm  room  for 
some  years  ;  therefore  wlien  bread  is  cheap,  it  may 
be  bought  to  advantage,  and  covered  close. 

Pickles  and  sweetmeats  should  be  preserved  from 
air ;  where  the  former  are  much  used,  small  jars  of 
each  should  be  taken  from  the  stock  jar,  to  prevent 
frequent  opening. 

Some  of  the  lemons  and  oranges  used  for  juice 
should  be  pared,  first  to  preserve  the  peel  dry  ; 
some  should  be  halved,  and  when  squeezed,  the 
pulp  cut  out,  and  the  outsides  dried  for  grating. 
If  for  boiling  in  any  liquid,  the  first  way  is  best. 
When^  these  fruits  are  cheap,  a  proper  quantity 
should  be  bought,  and  prepared  as  hereafter  direct- 
ed, especially  by  those   who   live  in  the  country, 


where  they  cannot  always  be  had ;  and  they  arc 
perpetually  wanted  in  cookery. 

When  whites  of  eggs  are  used  for  jelly,  or  other 
purposes,  contrive  to  have  pudding,  custard,  &c. 
to  employ  the  yelks  also.  Should  you  not  want 
them  for  several  hours,  beat  them  up  with  a  little 
water,  and  put  them  in  a  cool  place,  or  they  will 
be  hardened  and  useless.  It  was  a  mistake  of  old, 
to  think  that  the  whites  made  cakes  and  puddings 
heavy ;  on  the  contrary,  if  beaten  long  and  sepa- 
rately, they  contribute  greatly  to  give  hghtness,  are 
an  advantage  to  paste,  and  make  a  pretty  dish  beat- 
en with  fruit,  to  set  in  cream,  &c. 

If  copper  utensils  be  used  in  the  kitchen,  the 
cook  should  be  charged  to  be  veiy  careful  not  to 
let  the  tin  be  rubbed  off ;  and  to  have  them  fresh 
done  when  the  least  defect  appears,  and  never  to  put 
by  any  soup,  gravy,  &c.  in  them,  or  any  metal  uten- 
sil ;  stone  and  earthen  vessels  should  be  provided 
for  those  purposes,  as  likewise  plenty  of  common 
dishes,  that  the  table  set  may  not  be  used  to  put  by 
cold  meat. 

Vegetables  soon  sour,  and  corrode  metals  and 
glazed  red  ware,  by  which  a  strong  poison  is  pro- 
duced. 

Vinegar  by  its  acidity  does  the  same,  the  glazing 
being  of  lead  or  arsenic. 

In  hot  weather,  when  it  is  difficult  to  preserve 
milk  from  becoming  sour,  and  spoiHng  the  cream, 
it  may  be  kept  perfectly  sweet  by  scalding  the  new 


jaiik  very  gently,  without  boiling,  and  setting  it  by 
in  the  earthen  dish  or  pan  that  it  is  done  in.  This 
method  is  pursued  in  Devonshire,  and  the  milk 
is  not  skimmed  under  twenty  four  hours,  and 
would  equally  answer  in  small  quantities  for  coffee, 
tea,  &c. 

Cream  already  skimmed  may  be  kept  twenty  four 
hours  if  scalded  without  sugar,  and  by  adding  to 
it  as  much  powdered  lump  sugar  as  shall  make  it 
pretty  sweet  will  be  good  two  days,  keeping  it  in 
a  cool  place.  Syrup  of  cream  may  be  preserved  as 
above  in  the  proportion  of  a  pound  and  quarter  of 
sugar  to  a  pint  of  perfectly  fresh  cream,  keep  it  in 
a  cool  place  two  or  three  hours  ;  then  put  it  in  one 
or  two  ounce  phials,  and  cork  it  close.  It  wall 
keep  good  thus  for  several  weeks,  and  will  be  found 
very  useful  on  voyages. 

To  cool  liquors  in  hot  weather,  dip  a  cloth  in 
cold  water,  and  wrap  it  round  the  bottle  two  or 
three  times,  then  place  it  in  the  sun  ;  renew  the 
process  once  or  twice. 

The  best  way  of  scalding  fruits,  or  boiling  vine- 
gar, is  in  a  stone  jar  on  a  hot  iron  hearth,  or  by 
putting  the  vessel  into  a  saucepan  of  water,  called 
a  waterbath. 

The  beautiful  green  given  to  pickles,  formerly 
was  made  by  the  use  of  bellmettle,  brass,  or  cop- 
per, and  consequently  very  injurious  to  the  stomach. 

If  chocolate,  coffee,  jelly,  gruel,  bark,  &c.  be 
suffered  to  boil  over,  the  strength  is  lost. 


XIV. 

meal  or  pease,  are  added,  and  should  not  be  cleared 
from  the  fat. 

Roast  beef  bones,  or  shank  bones  of  ham,  make 
fine  pease  soup,  and  should  be  boiled  with  the 
pease  the  day  before  eaten,  that  the  fat  may  be  re- 
moved. ^ 

The  mistress  of  the  house  will  find  many  great  ad- 
vantages in  visiting  her  larder  daily,  before  she  or- 
ders her  bill  of  fare  :  she  will  see  what  things  require 
dressing,  and  thereby  guard  against  their  being 
spoiled.  Many  articles  may  be  re-dressed  in  a  dif- 
ferent form  from  that  in  which  they  were  first  serv- 
ed, and  improve  the  appearance  of  the  table  with- 
out increasing  expense.  Many  dishes  require  to  be 
made  of  dressed  meat  or  fowls.  Directions  for 
several  are  hereafter  given. 

In  every  sort  of  provisions,  the  best  of  the  kind 
goes  farthest  ;  cutting  out  most  advantageously, 
and  affording  most  nourishment.  Round  of  beef, 
fillet  of  veal,  and  leg  of  mutton,  bear  a  higher 
price  ;  but  having  more  solid  meat,  deserves  the 
preference.  It  is  worth  notice,  however,  that  those 
joints  which  are  inferior  may  be  dressed  as  palata- 
bly, and  being  cheaper,  ought  to  be  bought  in  turn  ; 
and,  when  weighed  with  the  prime  pieces,  the  price 
of  the  latter  is  reduced. 

In  loins  of  meat,  the  long  pipe  which  runs  by  the 
bone  should  be  taken  out,  being  apt  to  taint ;  as 
likewise  the  kernels  of  beef.  Rumps  and  aytch- 
bones  of  beef  are  often  bruised  by  the  blows  the 


drovers  give,  and  that  part  always  taints  :  avoid 
ourchasing  such. 

The  shank  bones  of  mutton  should  be  saved,  and, 
after  soaking  and  brushing,  may  be  added  to  give 
richness  to  gravies  or  soups  ;  and  they  are  particu-- 
larly  nourishing  for  the  sick.   # 

The  feet  of  pork  make  various  good  dishes,  and 
should  be  cut  off  before  the  legs  be  cured.  Observe 
the  same  of  the  ears. 

Calves'  tongues,  salted,  make  a  more  useful  dish 
than  when  dressed  with  the  brains,  which  may  be 
served  without. 

Some  people  like  neat^s  tongues  cured  with  the 
root,  i«  which  case  they  look  much  larger ;  but 
should  the  contrary  be  approved,  the  root  must  be 
:ut  off  close  to  the  gullet,  next  to  the  tongue,  but 
without  taking  away  the  fat  under  the  tongue.  The 
root  must  be  soaked  in  salt  and  water,  and  extreme- 
ly well  cleaned  before  it  be  dressed  as  hereafter  di- 
rected :  and  the  tongue  laid  in  salt  for  a  day  and 
night  before  pickled. 

Great  attention  is  requisite  in  salting  meat ;  and 
in  the  countiy,  where  great  quantities  are  cured, 
it  is  of  still  more  importance.  Beef  and  pork  should 
be  well  sprinkled,  and  a  few  hours  after  hung  to 
drain,  before  it  be  rubbed  with  the  preserving  salts  ; 
which  mode,  by  cleansing  the  meat  from  the  blood, 
tends  to  keep  it  from  tasting  strong.  It  should  be 
turned  daily,  and  if  wanted  soon,  rubbed.  A  salt- 
ing tub,  or  lead,  may  be  used,  and  a  cover  should 


xri 

iit  close.  Those  who  use  a  good  deal  of  salt  meat 
will  find  it  answer  well  to  boil  up  the  pickle,  skim, 
and,  when  cold,  pour  it  over  meat  that  has  been 
sprinkled  and  drained.  Salt  is  so  greatly  in- 
•creased  in  price,  from  the  heavy  duties,  as  to  re- 
quire additional  car^and  the  brine  ought  not  to  be 
thrown  away,  as  is  the  practice  of  some,  after  once 
using. 

In  some  families  great  loss  is  sustained  by  the 
spoiling  of  meat.  The  best  mode  to  keep  that 
v/hich  is  to  be  eaten  un salted  is,  as  before  directed, 
to  examine  it  well ;  wipe  it  daily,  and  pound  some 
charcoal,  and  throw  over  it.  If  meat  is  brought 
from  a  distance  in  warm  weather,  the  butcher 
should  be  charged  to  cover  it  close,  and  bring  it 
early  in  the  morning  ;  but  even  then,  if  it  be  kept 
on  ]^e  road,  while  he  serves  the  customers  who  are 
nearest  to  him,  it  will  probably  be  flyblown.  This 
is  most  frequent  in  the  country. 

Mutton  will  keep  long  by  washing  with  vinegar, 
and  peppering  the  broad  end  of  the  leg  ;  if  any. 
damp  appears,  wipe  it  immediately.  If  rubbed 
with  salt  lightly,  it  will  not  eat  the  worse.  Boiled 
in  seawater,  is  by  some  much  admired. 

Game  is  often  brought  in  when  not  likely  to  keep 
a  day,  in  the  cook's  apprehension  ;  yet  may  be 
preseirved  two  or  three  days,  if  wanted,  by  the  fol- 
lowing method  : 

If  birds,  ( woodcocks  and  snipes  excepted,  which 
must  not  be  drawn )  draw  them,  pick,  and  take  out 


the  crop ;  wash  them  in  two  or  three  waters,  and 
rub  them  with  a  Httle  salt.  Have  ready  a  large 
saucepan  of  boiling  water,  and  plunge  them  in  one 
by  one  ;  boil  each  five  minutes,  moving  it,  that  the 
water  may  go  through  them.  When  all  are  fin- 
ished, hang  them  by  the  he^s  in  a  cold  place  ; 
when  drained,  pepper  the  inside  and  necks.  When 
to  be  roasted,  wash  to  take  off  the  pepper.  The 
most  delicate  birds,  even  growse,  may  be  kept  this 
way,  if  not  putrid.  Birds  that  live  by  suction,  &c. 
bear  being  high  ;  it  is  probable  that  the  heat 
might  cause  them  to  taint  more,  as  a  free  passage 
for  the  scalding  water  could  not  be  obtained.  Hares 
ought  not  to  be  paunched  in  the  field,  as  they 
keep  longer,  and  eat  much  better  without.  But 
that  is  seldom  in  the  cook's  power  to  guard 
against.  She  should  take  out  the  liver  and  heart, 
and  parboil  the  former  to  keep  for  stuffing,  wipe 
the  inside  every  day,  quite  dry,  put  a  bunch  of  pars- 
ley, or  some  pepper,  or  both  ;  thus  it  will  keep 
long,  especially  if  the  seasoning  be  rubbed  early  on 
the  inside  to  prevent  any  mustiness  of  taste,  which 
often  is  communicated  to  the  stuffing  by  this  omis- 
sion, and  want  of  extreme  nicety  in  washing  it  in 
water  and  vinegar  before  it  be  dressed,  while  the 
outside  has  been  preserved  fresh  by  the  skin.  If 
old,  a  hare  should  be  kept  as  long  as  possible,  ex- 
cept for  soup,  or  jugging  ;  and  after  soaking  in 
vinesfar,  be  well  larded. 


Fresh  water  fish  has  often  a  muddy  taste  ;  to  take 
off  which,  soak  it  in  strong  salt  and  water,  or,  if  of 
a  size  to  bear  it,  give  it  a  scald  in  the  same,  after 
extremely  good  cleaning  and  washing.  The  latter 
for  carp  or  ells. 

Turbot  will  hancr  three  or  four  days,  if  lightly 
rubbed  with  salt,  ana  be  in  quite  as  great  perfection 
as  the  first  day. 

Fish  may  sometimes  be  bought  reasonably  by 
taking  more  than  can  be  dressed  at  once  ;  when  re- 
course may  be  had  to  pickling,  potting,  or  frying, 
to  keep  for  stewing  a  succeeding  day. 

When  thunder  or  hot  weather  causes  beer  to 
turn  sour,  half,  or  a  whole  teaspoonful  of  salt  of 
wormwood  should  be  put  into  a  jug,  and  let  the 
beer  be  drawn  in  it  as  small  a  time  as  possible  be- 
fore it  be  drank. 

If  the  subject  of  servants  be  thought  ill  timed  in 
a  book  upon  family  arrangement,  it  must  be  by 
those  who  do  not  recollect  that  the  regularity  and 
good  management  of  the  heads  will  be  insufficient, 
if  not  seconded  by  those  who  are  to  execute  orders. 
It  behoves  every  person  to  be  extremely  careful 
who  they  take  into  their  employ  ;  to  be  very  minute 
in  investigating  the  character  they  receive  ;  and 
equally  cautious  to  be  scrupulously  just  in  giving  one 
to  others.  Were  this  attended  to,  many  bad  peo- 
ple would  be  incapacitated  from  doing  mischief,  by 
abusing  the  trust  reposed  in  them.  And  it  may  be 
fairly  asserted,  that  the  robbery,  or  waste  (which  is 


but  a  milder  epithet)  of  an  unfaithful  sen-ant,  uill 
be  laid  to  the  charge  of  the  master  or  mistress,  who, 
knowing  such  faults  in  him,  or  even  having  only 
wellgrounded  suspicions,  is  led  by  .entreaty  or  false 
pity,  to  slide  him  into  another  place.  To  refuse 
countenance  to  the  evil,  is  to  entourage  the  good  ser- 
vant ;  such  as  are  honest,  frugal,  and  attentive  to  their 
duties,  should  be  liberally  rewarded  :  and  such  dis- 
crimination would  encourage  merit,  and  inspire  ser- 
vants with  a  zeal  to  acquit  themselves  with  fidelity. 

On  the  other  side  it  may  be  proper  to  observe, 
that  •  a  j-etributive  justice  usually  marks  persons  in 
that  station  sooner  or  later  even  in  this  world. 
Those  who  are  extravagant  and  idle  in  their  servi- 
tude, are  ill  prepared  for  the  industry  and  sobriety 
on  which  their  own  future  welfare  much  depends ; 
their  faults,  and  the  attendant  punishment,  come 
home  when  they  have  families  of  their  own,  and 
sometimes  much  sooner.  They  will  see  their  wick-, 
edness  or  folly  in  the  conduct  of  their  offspring, 
whom  they  must  not  expect  to  be  better  than  the 
examples  that  are  set  them. 

It  was  the  observation  of  a  sensible  woman,  that 
she  could  always  read  the  fate  of  her  servants  when 
they  married  from  her ;  those  who  had  been  faith- 
ful and  industrious  in  her  service,  continued  their 
good  habits  in  their  own  families,  and  became  res- 
pectable members  of  the  community ;  those  who 
had  been  unfaithful  servants,  never  were  successful^ 
and  not  unfrequently  were  reduced  to  the  parish- 


The  manner  of  carving  is  not  only  a  very  essential 
knowledge  in  point  of  doing  the  honours  of  the  table 
with  grace,  but  makes  a  great  difference  in  the  fam- 
ily consumption  ;  and,  though  in  large  companies, 
a  lady  is  so  much  assisted  as  to  make  the  art  of  less 
consequence,  yet  she  should  not  fail  to  acquaint  her- 
self with  an  attainment  of  which  she  must  daily  feel 
the  want.  Some  people  haggle  meat  so  as  not  to 
be  able  to  help  six  times  from  a  large  tongue,  or  a 
piece  of  beef.  It  is  to  be  observed  that  a  thin  sharp 
carving  knife,  and  with  a  very  little  strength  to  the 
management  of  it,  will  cut  deep  thin  slices,  cause 
the  joint  to  look  neatly,  and  leave  sufficient  for  a 
second  helping,  instead  of  that  disgusting  appear- 
ance which  is  sometimes  observable.  Habit  alone 
can  make  people  carve,  or  do  the  honours  of  a  table 
well ;  for  those  who  have  not  had  practice ,  there  are 
very  good  directions  in  a  little  book  of  Trusler's. 

In  the  following,  and  indeed  all  other  receipts, 
though  the  quantities  may  be  as  accurately  set 
down  as  possible,  yet  much  must  be  left  to  the  dis- 
cretion of  the  person  who  uses  them.  The  differ- 
ent taste  of  people  requires  more  or  less  of  the  fla- 
vour of  spices,  garhc,  butter,  &c.  which  can  never 
be  directed  by  general  rules  ;  and  if  the  cook  has  not 
a  good  taste,  and  attention  to  that  of  her  employers, 
not  all  the  ingredients  with  which  nature  or  art  can 
furnish  her,  will  give  an  exquisite  relish  to  her 
dishes.  The  proper  articles  should  be  at  hand,  and 
she  must  proportion  them  until  the  true  zest  be  ob- 
tained. 


DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 


FISH. 

To  boil  Turbot. 
THE  turbot  kettle  must  be  of  a  proper  size, 
and  in  the  nicest  order.  Set  the  fish  in  cold  water 
to  cover  it  completely  :  throw  a  handful  of  salt  and 
one  glass  of  vinegar  into  it  ;  let  it  gradually  boil ; 
be  very  careful  that  there  fall  no  blacks,  but  skim  it 
well,  and  ptesen^e  the  beauty  of  the  colour. 

Serve  it  garnished  with  a  complete  fringe  of  curl- 
ed parsley,  lemon,  and  horseradish. 

The  sauce  must  be  the  finest  lobster,  and  anchovy- 
butter,  and  plain  butter,  served  plentifully  in  sepa- 
rate tureens. 

To  steiv  Lamprey,  as  at  Worcester. 

After  cleaning  the  fish  carefully,  remove  the  car- 
tilage which  runs  down  the  back,  and  season  with  a 
small  quantity  of  cloves,  mace,  nutmeg,  pepper,  and 
pimento.  Put  it  in  a  small  stewpot,  with  very 
strong  beef  gravy,  with  port  and  equal  quantity  of 
Madeira  or  sherry  wine. 

It  must  be  covered  ;  stew  till  tender  ;  then  take 
out  the  lamprey  and  keep  it  hot,  while  you  boil  up 
the  liquor  with  two  or  three  anchovies  chopped,  and 
some  flour  and  butter  :  strain  the  gravy  through  a 


-  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

sieve,   and  add  lemon  juice  and  some  made  mus- 
tard.    Serve  w  ith  sippits  of  bread  and  horseradish. 

Eels,  soals,  and  carp,  done  the  same  way,  are 
excellent.  When  there  is  spawn,  it  must  be  fried 
and  put  round. 

Note.  Cider  instead  of  white  wine  will  do  in 
common. 

Eel  Pye. 

Cut  the  eels  in  lengths  of  two  or  three  inches  : 
season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  place  in  the  dish, 
with  some  bits  of  butter  and  a  little  water,  and 
cover  it  with  paste. 

Spitchccck  Eels, 

lake  a  large  one,  leave  the  skin  on,  cut  it  in 
pieces  of  four  inches  long,  open  it  on  the  belly 
side,  and  clean  it  nicely  :  wipe  it  dry,  and  then  wet 
it  with  a  beaten  &^gy  and  strew  it  over  on  both 
sides  with  chopped  parsley,  pepper,  salt,  a  very- 
little  sage,  and  a  bit  of  mace  pounded  fine,  and 
mixed  with  the  seasoning.  Rub  the  gridiron  with 
a  bit  of  suet,  and  broil  the  fish  of  a  fine   colour. 

Serve  with  anchovy  and  butter  for  sauce. 
Fried  Eels. 

If  small,  they  should  be  curled  round  and  fried, 
being  first  dipped  in  egg  and  crumbs  of  bread. 
Boiled  Eels, 

The  small  ones  are  preferable.  Do  them  in  a  small 
quantity  of  water,  with  a  good  deal  of  parsley,  which 
should  be   served  up   with  them   and    the   liquor. 

Serve  chopped  parsley  and  butter  for  sauce. 


FISH. 

Eel  Broth, 
Very  nourishing  for  the  sick. 

As  above  ;  but  to  be  stewed  two  hours,  and  an 
onion  and  peppercorns  added  :  salt  to  taste. 
Collared  Eels. 

Bone  a  large  eel,  but  do  not  skin  it  :  mix  pepper, 
salt,  mace,  pimento,  and  a  clove  or  two,  in  the  finest 
powder,  and  rub  over  the  whole  inside  :  rcU  it 
tight,  and  bind  it  with  a  coarse  tape.  Boil  it  in  salt 
and  water  till  enough  ;  then  add  vinegar,  and 
when  cold,  keep  the  collar  in  pickle.  Sjpr^-e  it 
whole,  or  in  slices,  garnished  with  parsley.  Chop- 
ped sage,  parsley,  and  a  little  thyme,  knotted  mar- 
jorum,  and  savory,  mixed  with  the  spices,  greatly 
improve  the  taste. 

Perch  and  Tench. 

Put  them  in  cold  water,  boil  them  carefully,  and 
serve  with  melted  butter  and  soy. 
Mackerel. 

Boiled,  and  served  with  butter  and  fennel. 

Broiled,  being  split  and  sprinkled  with  herbs, 
pepper  and  salt  ;  or  stuffed  with  the  same,  crumbs 
and  chopped  fennel. 

Collared,  as  eels  above. 

Potted.  Clean,  season,  and  bake  them  in  a  pan, 
with  spice,  bayleaves,  and  some  butter  :  when  cold, 
lay  them  in  a  potting  pot,  and  cover  with  butter. 

Pickled.      Boil  them  ;  then  boil  some  of  the  li- 
quor, a  few  peppers,  bayleaves,  and  some  vinegar  : 
when  cold,  pour  it  over  them. 
c2 


■V  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

To  pickle  Mackerel,  called  Caveach, 

Clean  and  divide,  then  cut  each  side  in  three  ; 
or,  leaving  them  undivided,  cut  each  fish  in  five  or 
six  pieces.  To  six  large  mackerel,  take  near  an 
ounce  of  pepper,  two  nutmegs,  a  little  mace,  four 
cloves,  and  a  handful  of  salt,  all  in  finest  powder  ; 
mix,  and,  making  holes  in  each  bit  of  fish,  thrust 
the  seasoning  into  them  ;  rub  each  piece  with  some 
of  it  ;  then  fry  them  brown  in  oil  ;  let  them  stand 
till  cold,  then  put  them  into  a  stone  jar,  and  cover 
with  i^negar  :  if  to  keep  long,  pour  oil  on  the  top. 
This  done>  they  may  be  preserved  for  months. 
To  bake  Pike. 

Scale  it,  and  open  as  near  the  throat  as  you  can  ; 
rhcn  stuff  it"  with  the  following  :  grated  bread, 
herbs,  anchovies,  oysters,  suet,  salt,  pepper,  mace, 
half  a  pint  of  cream,  four  yelks  of  eggs  ;  mix  all, 
over  the  fire,  till  it  thickens,  then  put  it  into  the  fish, 
sew  it  up.  Butter  should  be  put  over  in  little  bits  : 
bake  it.     Serve  sauce  of  gravy,  butter,  and  anchovy. 

Note.      If,  in  helping  a  pike,  the  back   and  bel- 
ly may  slit  up,  and  each  slice  be  gently  drawn  down- 
wards, there  will  be  fevi^er  bones  given. 
Salmon  to  both 

Clean  it  carefully,  boil  it  gently,  and  take  it  out 
of  the  water  as  soon  as  done  ;  and  let  the  water  be 
^arm  if  the  fish  be  split. 

Shri.?ip  or  anchovy  sauce. 

Salmcn  to  pickle. 

Boil  as  above,  take  the  fish  out  and  boil  the  h 


I'ISH.  5 

quor  with   bay   leaves,  peppercorns  and  salt  ;  add 
vinegar  when  cold,   and  pour  over  the  fish. 
Salmon  to  broil. 

Cut  slices  about  an  inch  thick  ;  season,  and  put 
them  into   papers  ;  twist    them,  and   broil  gently. 
Serve  in  the  papers.     Anchovy  sauce. 
Salmon  to  pot. 

Take  a  large  piece,  scale  and  wipe,  but  do  not 
wash  it  ;  salt  it  very  well  :  let  it  he  till  the  salt  be 
melted  and  drained  from  it,  then  season  with  beaten 
mace,  cloves,  and  whole  peppers.  Lay  in  a  few 
bay  leaves,  put  it  close  in  a  pan,  and  cover  it  over- 
with  butter,  and  bake  it.  When  well  done,  drain 
it  from  the  gravy,  put  it  in  the  pots  to  keep  ;  and 
when  cold,  cover  with  clarified  butter. 

Thus  you  may  do  any  firm  fish. 
Salmon  to  dry. 

Cut  the  fish  down,  take  out  the  inside  and  roe. 
Rub  the  whole  with  common  salt,  after  scaling  it ; 
let  it  hang  to  drain  twenty  four  hours.  Pound 
three  or  (tir  ounces  of  saltpetre,  according  to  the 
size  of  the  fish,  two  ounces  of  bay  salt,  and  two 
ounces  of  coarse  sugar  :  rub  these,  when  mixed 
well,  into  the  salmon,  and  lay  it  on  a  large  dish  or 
tray  two  days,  them  rub  it  well  with  common  salt, 
and  in  twenty  four  hours  more  it  will  be  fit  to  dry  ; 
but  you  must  dry  it  well  after  draining.  Either 
hang  in  a  wood  chimney,  or  ia  a  dry  place,  keep- 
ing it  open  with  two  small  sticks. 


6  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

Lobsters  to  pot. 

Boil  them  half,  pick  out  the  meat,  cut  into  small 
bits  :  season  with  mace,  white  pepper,  nutmeg, 
and  salt  :  press  close  into  a  pot  and  cover  with  but- 
ter :  bake  half  an  hour  :  put  the  spawn  in.  When 
cold,  take  the  lobster  out,  and  with  a  little  of  the 
butter  put  it  into  the  pots.  Beat  the  other  butter 
in  a  mortar  with  some  of  the  spawn  ;  then  mix  that 
coloured  butter  with  as  much  as  will  be  suf&eient 
to  cover  the  pots,  and  strain  it.  Cayenne  may  be 
added,  if  approved. 

Another  luay,  as  at  Wood's  HoteL 

Take  out  the  meat  as  whole  as  you  can  ;  split 
the  tail  and  remove  the  gut  ;  if  the  inside  be  not 
watery,  add  that.  Season  with  mace,  nutmeg, 
white  pepper,  salt,  and  a  clove  or  two,  in  finest 
powder.  Lay  a  little  fine  butter  at  the  bottom  of 
a  pan,  and  the  lobster  smooth  over  ft,  with  bay 
leaves  between  :  cover  it  with  butter  and  bake  it 
gently.  When  done,  pour  the  whole  on  the  bot- 
tom of  a  sieve,  and  with  a  fork  lay  the^ieces  into 
potting  pots,  some  of  each  sort  with  the  seasoning 
about  it.  When  cold,  pour  clarified  butter  over, 
but  not  hot.  It  will  be  good  next  day  ;  or  highly 
seasoned,  and  thick  covered  with  butter,  will  keep 
some  time. 

The  potted  lobster  may  be  used  cold,  orasa  fricas- 
see, with  a  cream  sauce,  when  it  looks  very  nicely, 
and  eats  excellently,  especially  if  there  be  spawn. 

Mackerel,  herrings,  and  trout,  are  good  potted 
as  above. 


riSH.  7 

Stfived  Lobster,  as  a  very  high  Relish, 

Pick  the  lobster,  put  the  berries  into  a  dish  that 
has  a  lamp,  and  rub  them  down  with  a  bit  of  but- 
ter, two  spoonfuls  of  any  sort  of  gravy,  one  of  soy 
or  walnut  catsup,  a  little  salt  and  Cayenne,  and  a 
spoonful  of  port.  Stew  the  lobster  cut  in  bits  with 
the  gravy  as  above.  It  must  be  dressed  at  table, 
and  eaten  immediately. 

Lobster    Pie. 

Boil  two  lobsters,  or  three  small  ;  take  out  the 
tails,  cut  them  in  two,  take  out  the  gut,  cut  each  in 
four  pieces  and  lay  them  in  a  small  dish.  Pot  in 
then  the  meat  of  the  claws,  and  that  you  have 
picked  out  of  the  body ;  pick  off  the  furry  parts  from 
the  latter,  and  take  out  the  lady  ;  then  take  the 
spawn,  beat  it  in  a  mortar,  likewise  all  the  shells. 
Set  them  on  to  stew  with  some  water,  two  or  three 
spoonfuls  oFtinegar,  pepper,  salt,  and  some  pounded 
mace.  A  large  piece  of  butter,  rolled  in  flour,  must 
be  added  when  the  goodness  of  the  shells  is  ob- 
tained. Q||r6  a  boil  or  two  and  pour  into  the  dish 
strained  ;  strew  some  crumbs  over,  and  put  a  paste 
over  all.  Bake  slowly,  but  only  till  the  paste  be  done. 
Curry  of  Lobsters  or  Prawns. 

When  taken  out  of  the  shells,  simmer  them  as 
above. 

Buttered  Lobsters. 

Pick  the  meat  out  ;  cut  it  and  warm  with  a 
little  weak  brown  gravy,  nutmeg,  salt,  pepper,  and 
butter,  with  a  little  flour.  If  done  white,  a  little 
white  gravy  and  cream. 


V  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

Hot  Crab. 

Pick  the  meat  out  of  a  crab,  clear  the  shell  from 
the  head,  then  put  the  former,  with  a  very  small  bit 
of  nutmeg,  salt,  pepper,  a  bit  of  butter,  crumbs  of 
bread,  and  three  spoonfuls  of  vinegar,  into  the  shell 
again,  and  set  it  before  the  fire.  You  may  brown 
it  with  a  salamander. 

Dry  toast  should  be  served  to  eat  it  upon. 
To  dress  Red  Herrings, 

Choose  those  that  are  large  and  moist ;  cut  them 
open,  and  pour  some  boiling  small  beer  over  them, 
to  soak  half  an  hour.  Drain  them  dry,  and  make 
them  just  hot  through  before  the  fire  ;  then  rub 
some  cold  butter  over  them  and  serve.  Egg  sauce, 
or  buttered  eggs  and  mashed  potatoes,  should  be 
served  with  them. 

Baked  Herrings  or  Sprats. 

Wash  and  drain  without  wiping  them.  Season 
with  Jamaica  pepper  in  fine  powder,  salt,  a  whole 
clove  or  two  :  lay  them  in  a  pan  with  plenty  of 
black  pepper,  an  onion,  and  a  few  bayleaves.  Put 
half  vinegar  and  half  small  beer,  enough  to  cover 
them.  Put  paper  over  the  pan,  and  bake  in  a  slow 
oven.  If  you  like,  throw  salt  petre  over  them  the 
night  before,  to  make  them  look  red.  Gut,  but 
do  not  open  them. 

To  smoke  Herrings, 

Clean  and  lay  them  in  salt,  and  a  little  saltpetre 
one  night  ;  then  hang  them  on  a  stick,  through 
the  eyes,  on  a  row.     Have  ready  an  old  cask,  on 


FISH.  9 

which  put  some  sawdust,  and  in  the  midst  of  it  a 
heater  red  hot  ;  over  the   smoke  fix  the  stick,  and 
let  them  remain  twenty  four  hours. 
Fried  Herrings. 

Serve  them  of  a  light  brown,  and  onions  sliced 
and  fried. 

Broiled  Herrings. 

Floured  first,  and  done  of  a  good  colour.  Plain 
butter  for  sauce.  They  are  very  good  potted  like 
mackerel. 

Soah. 

If  boiled,  they  must  be  served  with  great  care  to 
look  perfectly  white,  and  should  be  much  covered 
with  parsley. 

If  fried,  dip  them  in  e^g,  and  cover  them  with  fine 
crumbs  of  bread.  Set  on  a  fryingpan  that  is  just 
large  enough,  and  put  into  it  a  large  quantity  of 
fresh  lard  or  dripping  ;  boil  it,  and  immediately  slip 
the  fish  into  it.  Do  them  of  a  fine  brown.  When 
enough,  take  them  out  carefully,  and  lay  them  up- 
on a  dish  turned  under  side  uppermost,  and  pla- 
ced slantingly  before  the  fire  to  drain  off  the 
fat.  If  you  wish  them  to  be  particularly  nice,  lay 
them  on  clean  cap  paper,  and  let  he  some  minutes. 

Observe,  that  fish  never  looks  well  if  not  fried  in 
plenty  of  fat,  and  that  boiling  hot,  before  it  be  put 
into  it.  The  dripping  may  serve  again  with  a  httle 
fresh.  Take  care  the  fat  does  not  become  black. 
Butter  makes  every  thing  black  that  is  fried  in  it. 
The  soals  should  just  fit  the  inside  of  the  dish,  and 


10  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

a  fringe  of  curled  parsley  garnish  the  edge  com- 
pletely, which  looks  beautifully. 

Soals  that  have  been  fried,  eat  good   cold  with 
oil,  vinegar,  salt,  and  mustard.     Note,     Fine  oil 
gives  the  finest  colour,  but  is   expensive. 
Stewed  Soals,  and  Carf>y 

Are  to  be  done  like  lampreys. 

Soals,  in  the  Portuguese  ivay. 

Take  one  large  or  two  lesser  ;  if  the  former,  cut 
the  fish  in  two  ;  if  they  are  small,  they  need  only 
be  split.  The  bones  being  taken  out,  put  the  fish 
into  a  pan,  with  a  bit  of  butter  and  some  lemon- 
juice  :  give  it  a  fry  ;  then  lay  the  fish  on  a  dish, 
and  spread  a  forcemeat  over  each  piece,  and  roll  it 
round,  fastening  the  roll  with  a  few  small  skewers. 
Lay  the  rolls  into  a  small  earthen  pan  ;  beat  an 
Ggg  and  wet  them,  then  strew  crumbs  over,  and 
put  the  remainder  of  the  egg,  with  a  little  meat 
gravy,  a  spoonful  of  caper  liquor,  an  anchovy  chop- 
ped fine,  and  some  parsley  choppedj^  into  the  bot- 
tom of  the  pan  ;  cover  it  close,  and  bake,  until 
the  fish  be  done  enough,  in  a  slow  oven.  Then 
place  the  rolls  in  the  dish  for  serving  ;  cover  it  to 
keep  it  hot  until  the  gravy  baked  be  skimmed  :  if 
not  enough,  a  httle  fresh,  flavoured  as  above,  must 
be  prepared  and  added  to  it. 

The  stuffing  to  be  made  as  on  the  following  page. 
Stujltigfor  Soals  bahd. 

Pound  cold  beef,  mutton,  or  veal,  a  little,  then 
add  some  fat  bacon,  that  has  been  lightly  fried,  cut 


FISH.  11 

small,  and  some  onions,  a  little  garlick  or  slialot, 
some  parsley,  anchovy,  pepper,  salt,  and  nutmeg. 
Pound  all  fine  with  a  few  crumbs,  and  bind  it  with 
two  or  three  yelks  of  eggs. 

The  heads  of  the  fish  are  to  be  left  on  one  side 
of  the  spht  part,  and  kept  on  the  outer  side  of  the 
roll ;  and  when  served,  the  heads  are  to  be  turned 
towards  each  other  in  the  dish. 

Garnish  with  fried  or  dned  parsley. 
Soal,  Cod  J  or  Turbot  Pie  :  another  sort  of  stuffing. 

Boil  two  pounds  of  eels  tender ;  pick  all  the 
flesh  clean  from  the  bones  ;  throw  the  latter  into 
the  liquor  the  eels  were  boiled  in,  with  a  little  mace, 
salt  and  parsley,  and  boil  till  very  good,  and  come 
to  a  quarter  of  a  pint,  and  strain  it.  In  the  mean 
time  cut  the  flesh  of  the  eels  fine,  likewise  %ome 
lemonpeel,  parsley,  and  an  anchovy  ;  put  to  them 
pepper,  salt,  nutmeg,  and  some  crumbs.  Melt 
four  ounces  of  butter  and  mix,  then  lay  it  in  a  dish 
at  the  bottom  :  cut  the  flesh  of  two  or  three  soals 
clean  from  the  bones,  and  fins  ;  lay  it  on  the  force- 
meat, and  pour  the  eelbroth  in.  The  bones  of  the 
soals  should  be  boiled  \\'ith  those  of  the  eels.  You 
may  boil  them  with  one  or  two  little  eels,  and  pour 
it,  well  seasoned,  on  the  fish,  and  put  no  force- 
meat. 

xln  excellent  tuay  of  dressing  a  large  Plaice^  especially 
if  there  he  a  roe. 

Sprinkle  it  with  salt,  and  keep  it  twenty  four 
hours,  then  wash  and  wipe  it  dr\^  :  wet  it  over  with 


12  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

eggs ;  cover  with  crumbs  of  bread ;  make  some 
lard  or  fipe  dripping,  and  two  large  spoonfuls  of 
vinegar  boiling  hot,  lay  the  fish  in,  and  fry  it  a  fine 
colour.  Drain  it  from  the  fat,  and  serve  with  fried 
parsley  round,  and  anchovy  sauce.  You  may  dip 
the  fish  in  vinegar,  and  not  put  it  in  the  pan. 
To  fry  Smelts, 

They  should  not  be  washed  more  than  necessa- 
ry  to  clean.  Dry  in  a  cloth,  then  lightly  flour,  but 
shake  it  off.  Dip  them  in  plenty  of  ^gg^  then  in- 
to bread  crumbs  grated  fine,  and  plunge  them  into 
a  good  pan  of  boiling  lard.  Let  them  continue 
gently  boiling,  and  a  few  minutes  will  make  them 
a  bright  yellow  brown.  Take  care  not  to  take  off 
the  light  roughness  of  the  crumbs,  or  their  beauty 
will%e  lost. 

Boiled  Carp, 

Serve  in  a  napkin,  and  with  the  sauce  directed 
for  it  among  sauces. 

Cod's  head  and  shoulders^ 

Will  eat  much  finer,  by  having  a  little  salt  rub- 
bed down  the  bone,  and  along  the  thick  part,  even 
if  to  be  eaten  the  same  day. 

Tie  it  up,  and  put  on  the  fire  in  cold  water  which 
will  completely  cover  it :  throw  a  handful  of  salt 
in  it.  Great  care  must  be  taken  to  serve  it  with- 
out the  smallest  speck  of  black  or  scum.  Garnish 
with  a  large  quantity  of  double  parsley,  lemon, 
horseradish,  and  the  milt,  roe,  and  liver,  and  smelts 
fried,  if  approved.     If  the  latter,  be  cautious  that 


FISH.  13 

no  water  hang  about  the  fish,  or  the  beauty  of  the 
smelts  will  be  taken  off,  as  well  as  their  flavour. 

Serve  with  plenty  of  oyster  or  shrimp  sauce>  ^d 
anchovy,  and  butter. 

Some  people  boil  the  cod  whole  ;  but  there  is 
no  fish,  that  is  more  proper  to  help,  than  in  a  large 
head  and  shoulders,  the  thinner  parts  being  over- 
done and  tasteless  before  the  thick  be  ready  :  but 
the  whole  fish  may  be  purchased,  at  times,  more 
reasonably,  and  the  lower  half,  if  sprinkled  the 
least,  and  hung  up,  will  be  in  high  perfection  one 
or  two  days  :  or  it  may  be  made  Salter,  and  served 
with  egg  sauce,  potatoes,  and  parsnips. 
Crimp  Cod* 

Boil,  broil,  or  fry. 

Cod  sounds  boiled,  W 

Soak  them  in  warm  water  till  soft,  then  scrape 
and  clean  ;  and  if  to  be  dressed  white,  boil  them 
in  milk  and  water,  and  when  tender  serve  them  in 
a  napkin.     Egg  sauce. 

Cod  sounds  ragout. 

Prepare  as  above,  then  stevv^  them  in  white  gravy 
seasoned  ;  cream,  butter,  and  a  little  bit  of  flour 
added  before  you  serve,  gently  boiling  up.  A  bit 
of  lemonpeel,  nutmeg,  and  the  least  pounded  mace, 
should  give  the  flavour. 

Curry  of  Cod j 

Should  be  made  of  sliced  cod  that  has  either 
been  crimped,  or  sprinkled  a  day  to  make  it  firm. 
Fry  it  of  a  fine  brown,  with  onions,  and  stew  it  with 


14  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

a  good  white  gravy,  a  little  curry  powder,  a  bit  of 
butter  and  flour,  three  or  four  spoonfuls  of  rich 
cream,  salt  and  Cayenne. 

Fish  Pie, 

Cod  or  haddock,  sprinkled  with  salt  to  give 
firmness,  slice  and  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and 
place  in  a  dish  mixed  with  oysters.  Put  the  oyster 
liquor,  a  little  broth,  and  a  bit  of  flour  and  butter, 
boiled  together,  into  the  dish  cold.  Put  a  paste 
over  ;  and  when  it  comes  from  the  oven,  pour  in 
some  warm  cream.  If  you  please  you  may  put 
parsley  instead  of  oysters. 

Haddock, 

Do  the  same  as  cod,  and  serve  with  the  same 
sauce  ;  or,  stuff  with  forcemeat  as  page  eleventh. 
Or  BJroil  them  with  stuffing. 

Oysters  to  stew. 

Open  them  and  separate  the  liquor  from  them, 
then  wash  them  from  the  grit :  strain  the  liquor, 
and  put  with  the  oysters  a  bit  of  mace  and  lemon^ 
peel,  and  a  few  white  peppers.  Simmer  them  very 
gently,  and  put  some  cream,  and  a  little  flour  and 
butter. 

Serve  with  sippets. 

Scalloped  Oysters. 

Put  them  with  crumbs  of  bread,  pepper.  Gait, 
nutmeg,  and  a  bit  of  butter,  in  scallop  shells  or 
saucers,  and  bake  them  before  the  iire,  in  a  Dutch 
ovenc 


FISH.  15 

Oyster  Patties  or  small  Pye, 

As  you  open  the  oysters,  separate  them  from  the 
liquor,  which  strain  ;  parboil  them,  after  taking  off 
the  beards.  Parboil  sweetbreads,  and  cutting  them 
in  slices,  lay  them  and  the  oysters  in  layers  :  season 
very  hghtly  with  salt,  pepper,  and  mace.  Then 
put  half  a  teacup  of  liquor,  and  the  same  of  gravy. 
Bake  in  a  slow  oven  ;  and  before  you  serve,  put  a 
teacup  of  cream,  a  little  more  oyster  liquor  and  a 
cup  of  white  gravy,  all  warmed,  but  not  boiled.  If 
for  patties,  the  oysters  should  be  cut  in  small  dice, 
gently  stewed,  and  seasoned  as  above,  and  put  into 
the  paste  when  ready  for  table. 

Fried  Oysters,  to  garnish  boiled Jish, 

Make  a  batter  of  fleur,  milk,  and  eggs  ;  season  it 
a  very  little  ;  dip  the  oysters  in  it,  and  fry  them  a 
fine  yellow  brown.  A  httle  nutmeg  should  be  put 
into  the  seasoning,  and  a  few  crumbs  of  bread  into 
the  flour. 

To  pickle  Oysters, 

Wash  four  dozen  of  oysters  in  their  ov/n  liquor  ; 
then  strain,  and  in  it  simmer  them  till  scalded 
enough  :  take  them  out  and  cover  them.  To  the 
liquor  put  a  few  peppercorns,  a  blade  of  mace,  a 
table  spoonful  of  salt,  three  of  white  wine,  and  four 
of  vinegar  :  simmer  fifteen  minutes  ;  and  when 
cold,  pour  it  on  the  oysters,  and  keep  them  in  a  jar 
close  covered. 

Another  ivay. 

Open  the  number   you   intend  to  pickle  ;  put 
o  2 


16  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

them  into  a  saucepan,  with  their  own  liquor,  for  ten 
minutes  ;  simmer  them  very  gently  ;  then  put  them 
into  a  jar,  one  by  one,  that  none  of  the  grit  may 
stick  to  them,  and  cover  them,  when  cold,  with  the 
pickle  thus  made.  Boil  the  liquor  with  a  bit  of 
mace,  lemonpeel,  and  black  peppers  ;  and  to  every 
hundred,  put  two  spoonfuls  of  the  best  undistilled 
vinegar. 

They  should  be  kept  in  small  jars,  and  tied  close 
with  bladder,  for  the  air  will  spoil  them. 
StuffiJig  for  Pike,  Haddock,  lufc. 

Of  fat  bacon,  beefsuet,  and  fresh  butter,  equal 
parts  ;  some  parsley,  thyme,  and  savory  ;  a  little 
onion,  and  a  few  leaves  of  scented  marjorum,  shred 
finely  ;  an  anchovy  or  two  ;  a  little  salt  and  nut- 
meg, and  some  pepper. 

If  you  have  oysters,  three  or  four  may  be  used 
instead  of  anchovies=  Mix  all  with  crumbs  of 
bread,  and  two  yelks  and  whites  of  eggs,  well  beat- 
en, and  parsley  shred  fine. 

Sprats, 

When  cleaned,  should  be  fastened  in  rows  by  a 
skewer,  run  through  the  heads,  and  then  broiled 
and  served  hot  and  hot. 

Sprats  baked,  as  herrings,  page  8. 

fried,  as  do.  page  9. 

To  dress  fresh  Sturgeon. 

Cut  slices,  rub  egg  over,  then  sprinkle  with 
crumbs  of  bread,  parsley,  pepper,  salt,  and  fold  in 
paper,  and  broil  gently. 

Sauce  I  butter,  anchovy,  and  8oy« 


FISH.  1-7 

Thornbacky  or  Skate, 
Should  be  hung  one  day  at  least,  before  it  be 
dressed,  and  may  be  served  either  boiled,  or  fried 
in  crumbs,  being  first  dipped  in  Qgg. 
Crimp  Skate. 
Boiled,  and  sent  up  in  a  napkin  ;  or  fried  as 
above. 

Maids, 

Should  be  likewise  hung  one  day  at  least.     May 

be  boiled   or  fried  ;  or  if  of  a   tolerable  size,  the 

middle  may  be  boiled  and  the  fins   fried.     They 

should  be  dipped  in  ^gg,  and  covered  with  crumbs. 


OBSERVATIONS  ON  DRESSING  EISH. 

If  the  fishmonger  does  not  clean  it,  fish  is  sel- 
dom very  nicely  done  ;  but  those  in  great  towns 
wash  it  beyond  what  is  necessrry  for  cleaning,  and 
by  perpetual  watering  diminish  the  flavor.  When 
quite  clean,  if  to  be  boiled,  some  salt  and  a  little 
vinegar  should  be  put  to  the  water  to  give  firmness ; 
but  cod,  whiting  and  haddock,  are  far  better  if  a  lit- 
tle Salted,  and  kept  a  day  ;  and  if  not  very  hot 
weather  they  will  be  good  in  two  days. 

Those  who  know  how  to  purchase  fish,  may,  by 
taking  more  at  a  time  than  they  want  for  one  day, 
often  get  it  cheap,  and  that  which  will  hang  by 
sprinkhng,  may  then  be  bought  to  advantage. 

The  fish  must  be  put  into  the  water  while  cold, 
and  set  to  do  very  gently,  or  the  outside  will  break 
before  the  inner  part  be  done. 


i8  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

The  fishplate  on  which  it  is  done,  may  be  drawn 
up  to  see  if  it  be  ready  ;  it  will  leave  the  bone 
when  it  is.  It  should  be  then  immediately  taken 
out  of  the  water,  or  it  will  be  woolly.  The  fish- 
plate should  be  set  crossways  over  the  kettle,  to 
keep  hot  for  serving,  and  a  clean  cloth  snould  cover 
the  fish  to  prevent  its  losing  its  colour. 

Small  fish,  nicely  fried  in  eggf  and  crumbs,  make 
a  dish  of  fish  far  more  elegant  than  served  plain. 
Great  attention  should  be  paid  to  garnishing  fish  ; 
plenty  of  horseradish,  parsley,  and  lemon, 

When  well  done,  and  with  very  good  sauce,  fish 
is  more  attended  to  than  almost  any  other  dish. 
The  liver  and  roe  should  be  placed  on  the  dish,  so 
conspicuously  that  the  lady  may  see  them,  and  help 
a  part  to  every  one.  The  sound  of  the  cod,  its 
head,  and  the  head  of  carp  are  reckoned  the  prime 
parts  ;  and  it  is  a  part  of  necessary  attention  to 
help,  or  at  least  offer  some  of  the  best  to  one's 
friends  ;  nor  is  it  any  excuse  for  the  mistress's 
negligence,  that  it  is  the  fashion  of  the  present  day 
for  those  who  sit  at  her  right  or  left  hand  to  help 
ihe  company,  which  she  must  see  they  do  properly. 

If  salmon  is  to  be  dressed,  great  care  is  necessa- 
ry that  it  be  done  enough.  No  vinegar  should  be 
boiled  with  it. 

If  fish  is  to  be  fried  or  broiled,  it  must  be  wrapt 
ju  a  nice  soft  cloth,  after  it  is  well  cleaned  and 
washed.  When  perfectly  dry,  wet  with  an  egg,  if 
the  former  way,  and  sprinkle  the  finest  crumbs  of 


FISH.  19 

bread  over  it ;  then  having  a  thick  bottomed  frjnng- 
pan  on  the  fire,  with  a  large  quantity  of  lard  or 
dripping  boiling  hot,  plunge  the  fish  into  it,  and  let 
it  fry  middhngly  quick,  till  the  colour  be  a  fine 
brown  yellow,  and  it  be  judged  ready  :  if  the  lat- 
ter take  plice  first,  the  cook  should  draw  the  pan 
to  the  side  of  the  fire,  lest  the  colour  be  spoiled. 
She  should  then  carefully  take  it  up,  and  either 
place  it  on  a  large  sieve  turned  upwards,  and  to  be 
kept  for  that  purpose  only,  or  on  the  underside  of 
a  dish,  to  drain  ;  and  if  wanted  very  nice,  a  sheet 
of  cap  paper  must  be  put  to  receive  the  fish,  which 
should  look  a  beautiful  colour,  and  all  the  crumbs 
appear  distinct ;  the  fish  being  free  from  all  grease. 

Garnish  with  a  fringe  of  curled  raw  parsley,  or 
parsley  fried,  which  must  be  thus  done  :  when 
washed  and  picked,  throw  it  again  into  clean  water  ; 
when  the  lard  or  dripping  boils,  throw  the  parsley 
into  it  immediately  from  the  water,  and  instantly 
it  will  be  green,  and  crisp,  and  must  be  taken  up 
with  a  slice.    This  may  be  done  after  the  fish  is  fried. 

If  fish  is  to  be  broiled,  it  must  be  seasoned  and 
floured,  and  put  on  a  gridiron  that  is  very  clean  ; 
and  when  hot,  it  should  be  rubbed  with  a  bit  of 
suet  to  prevent  the  fish  from  sticking.  It  must  be 
broiled  on  a  very  clear  fire,  that  it  may  not  taste  of 
smoke ;  and  not  too  near,  that  it  may  notbe  scorched. 
jln  excellent  imitation  of  Sturgeon, 

Take  a  fine  large,  but  not  an  old  turkey  ;  pick 
it  most  nicely  ;  singe  it,  and  make  it  very  clean  ; 


iO  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

bone,  wash,  and  dry  it ;  tie  it  across  and  across, 
with  a  bit  of  matstring,  washed  clean,  as  they  tie 
sturgeon.  Put  into  a  vei*y  nice  tin  saucepan  a 
quart  of  water,  the  same  of  vinegar,  and  of  white 
wine,  that  is  not  sweet,  and  a  very  large  handful  of 
salt.  Let  boil,  and  skim  well,  thendput  in  the 
turkey  :.  when  done,  take  it  out  and  tighten  the 
strings.  Let  the  liquor  boil  half  an  hour  after, 
and  when  cold  put  it  on  the  turkey.  If  salt  or 
vinegar  be  wanting,  add  when  cold.  This  will 
keep  some  months.  You  eat  it  vnih  oil  and  vine- 
gar, or  sugar  and  vinegar.  It  is  more  delicate 
than  sturgeon,  and  makes  a  pretty  variety,  if  the 
real  is  not  to  be  had.  Cover  it  with  fennel  when 
brought  to  table. 


ON  DRESSING  MEATS. 
Wash  all  meats  before  you  dress  ;  if  for  boiling, 
the  colour  will  be  better  for  soaking  ;  if  for  roast- 
ing, dry  it. 

Boihng  in  a  well  floured  cloth,  will  make  meat 
white. 

Particular  charge  must  be  given  that  the  pot  be 
well  skimmed  the  moment  it  boils,  otherwise  the 
foulness  will  be  dispersed  over  the  meat.  The 
more  soups  or  broths  are  skimmed,  the  better  and 
cleaner  they  will  be. 

The  boiler  and  utensils  should  be  kept  delicately 
clean. 


MEATS.  21 

Put  the  meat  in  cold  water,  and  flour  it  well 
first.  If  meat  be  boiled  quick  it  will  be  hard  ;  but 
care  must  be  taken  that  in  boihng  slow,  it  does  not 
cease,  or  the  meat  will  be  underdone. 

If  the  steam  be  kept  in,  the  water  will  not  much 
decrease  ;  Iherefore  when  you  wish  to  evaporate, 
remove  the  cover  of  the  souppot. 

Vegetables  should  not  be  dressed  with  the  meat, 
except  carrots  or  parsnips  with  boiled  beef. 

Weigh  the  joint,  and  allow  a  quarter  of  an  hour 
to  each  pound,  and  about  twenty  minutes  over.  If 
for  roasting,  it  should  be  put  at  a  good  distance 
from  the  fire,  and  brought  gradually  nearer  when 
the  inner  part  becomes  hot,  which  will  prevent  its 
being  scorched  while  yet  raw.  Meat  should  be 
much  basted,  and  when  nearly  done,  floured  to 
make  it  look  frothed. 

Veal  and  mutton  should  have  a  little  paper  put 
over  the  fat  to  preserve  it.  If  not  fat  enough  to 
allow  for  basting,  a  httle  good  dripping  answers  as 
well  as  butter. 

The  cook  should  be  careful  to  spit  meat  so  as 
not  to  run  the  spit  through  the  best  parts  ;  and  she 
should  observe  that  her  spit  be  well  cleaned  before, 
and  when  she  is  going  to  serve,  or  a  black  stain  ap- 
pears on  the  meat.  In  many  joints  the  spit  will 
pass  into  the  bones,  and  run  along  them  for  some 
distance,  so  as  not  to  injure  the  prime  of  the  meat ; 
and  she  should  have  leaden  skewers  to  enable  her 
to  balance  it ;  for  want  of  which,  ignorant  servants 
often  are  foiled  in  the  time  of  serving. 


22  DOMEStiC  COOKERY. 

In  roasting  meat,  it  is  a  very  good  way  to  put  a 
little  salt  and  water  into  the  dripping  pan,  and  baste; 
for  a  little  while  with  it  before  it  be  done  with  its 
own  fat  or  dripping.  When  dry,  dust  it  with  flour, 
and  baste  as  usual. 

Time,  distance,  basting  often  >  and  a^Hear  fire,  of 
a  proper  size  for  what  is  required,  are  the  first  ar* 
tides  of  a  good  cook's  attention  in  roasting. 

Old  meats  do  not  require  so  much  dressing  as 
young  ;  not  that  they  are  sooner  done,  but  they 
can  be  eaten  with  the  gravy  more  in. 

Be  careful  in  roasting  wild  fow^ls  to  keep  a  clear 
brisk  fire.  Roast  them  of  a  light  brown,  but  not 
till  their  gravy  runs  ;  they  lose  their  fine  flavour  if 
too  much  done.  Tame  fowls  require  more  roast- 
ing :  they  are  a  long  time  before  they  are  hot 
through,  and  must  be  often  basted  to  keep  up  a 
froth,  and  it  makes  the  colour  better.  Pigs  and 
geese  require  a  brisk  fire,  and  to  be  turned  quick. 

Hares  and  rabbits  require  time,  and  care  to  turn 
the  two  ends  to  the  fire,  v^-hich  are  less  likely  to  be 
done  enough  than  the  middle  part. 

Choose  mutton  by  the  fineness  of  its  grain,  the 
deep  red  of  the  flesh,  and  bright  whiteness  of  the 
fat.  For  roasting,  it  should  hang  as  long  as  it  will 
keep,  the  hind  quarter  especially,  but  not  so  as  to 
taint ;  for,  whatever  fashion  may  authorize,  putrid 
juices  ought  not  to  be  conveyed  into  the  stomach. 

Mutton,  for  boiling,  will  not  look  of  a  good  col- 
our if  it  has  long  hung.     Small  mutton  is  preferred. 


Meats.  ss 

Great  care  should  be  taken  to  preserve  by  paper 
the  fat  of  what  is  roasted. 

To  keep  Venison. 

Preserve  the  venison  dr}- ;  wash  it  with  milk  and 
water  very  clean  ;  dry  it  with  clean  cloths,  till  not 
the  least  damp  remain.  Then  dust  pounded  gin- 
ger over  every  part,  which  is  a  good  preventive 
against  the  fly.  By  thus  managing  and  watching, 
it  will  hang  a  fortnight.  When  to  be  used,  wash 
it  with  a  little  lukewarm  water,  and  dry  it. 
Venison, 

A  haunch  of  buck  will  take  about  three  hours 
and  three  quarters  roasting  ;  doe,  three  hours  and 
a  quarter.  Put  a  coarse  paste  of  brown  flour  and 
water,  and  a  paper  over  that,  to  cover  all  the  fat  : 
baste  it  well  with  dripping,  and  keep  it  at  a  dis- 
tance to  get  hot  at  the  bone  by  degrees.  When 
nearly  done,  remove  the  covering,  and  baste  it  ^^^th 
butter,  and  froth  it  up  before  you  serve. 

Gravy  for  it  should  be  put  into  a  boat,  and  not 
in  the  dish  (unless  there  be  none  in  the  venison), 
and  made  thus  :  cut  off  the  fat  from  two  or  three 
pounds  of  a  loin  of  old  mutton,  and  set  it  in  steaks 
on  a  gridiron  for  a  few  minutes,  just  to  brov/a  one 
side  :  put  them  in  a  saucepan,  with  a  quart  of 
water  :  cover  quite  close  for  an  hour,  and  gently 
simmer  it  ;  then  uncover,  and  stew  till  the  gravy 
be  reduced  to  a  pint.     Season  with  only  salt. 

Currantjelly  sauce  must  be  served  in  a  boat. 

Formerly   pap  sauce  was  eaten   with  venison^ 


24  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

which,  as  some  still  like  it,  may  be  necessary  to 
direct.  Grate  white  bread,  and  boil  it  with  port  and 
water,  a  large  stick  of  cinnamon  ;  and  when  quite 
smooth,  remove  the  latter,  and  add  sugar.  Claret 
wine  may  be  used  for  it. 

Make  the  jelly  sauce  thus.  Beat  some  currant* 
jelly,  and  a  spoonful  or  two  of  port,  then  set  it 
over  the  fire  till  melted.  Where  jelly  runs  short, 
put  more  vnne,  and  a  few  lumps  of  sugar  to  the 
jelly,  and  melt  as  above. 

To  make  a  Pasty  of  Beef  or  Muttony  to  eat  as  well  as 
Venison* 

Bone  a  small  rump,  or  a  piece  of  sirloin  of  beef, 
or  a  fat  loin  of  mutton  :  the  former  is  better  than 
mutton,  after  hanging  several  days,  if  the  weather 
permits.  Beat  it  very  well  with  a  rolling  pin,  then 
rub  ten  pounds  of  meat  with  four  ounces  of  sugar, 
and  pour  over  it  a  glass  of  port  wine,  and  the  same  of 
vinegar.  Let  it  lie  five  days  and  nights  :  wash  and 
wipe  the  meat  very  dry,  and  season  it  very  high 
with  pepper,  Jamaica  pepper,  nutmeg,  and  salt. 
Lay  in  your  dish,  and  to  ten  pounds  put  one  pound 
or  near  of  butter,  spreading  it  over  the  meat.  Put 
a  crust  round  the  edges,  and  cover  with  a  thick 
one,  or  it  will  be  overdone  before  the  meat  be  soak- 
ed.    It  must  be  done  in  a  slow  oven. 

Set  the  bones  in  a  pan  in  the  oven,  with  no  more 
water  than  will  cover  them,  and  one  glass  of  port 
wine,  a  little  pepper  and  salt,  that  you  may  have  a^ 
little  rich  gravy  to  add  to  the  pasty  when  drawn. 


MEATS.  '25 

Note,  Sugar  gives  a  greater  shortness,  and  bet- 
ter flavor  to  meats  than  salt,  too  great  a  quantity 
of  which  hardens  ;  and  it  is  quite  as  great  a  preserv- 
ative. 

Haunch,  Neck  and  Shoulders  of  Venison* 

Roast  with  paste,  as  directed  above,  and  the  same 
sauce. 

Stewed  Shoulder. 

Let  the  meat  hang  till  you  judge  proper  to  dress 
it,  then  take  out  the  bone  :  beat  the  meat  with  a 
rolling  pin.  Lay  some  shces  of  mutton  fat,  that 
has  lain  a  few  hours  in  a  little  port  wine,  among  it : 
sprinkle  a  little  black  and  Jamaica  pepper  over  it, 
in  finest  powder  :  roll  it  up  tight,  and  fillet  it.  Set 
it  in  a  stewpan  that  will  only  just  hold  it,  with 
some  mutton  or  beef  gravy,  not  strong,  half  a  pint 
of  port,  and  some  pepper  and  pimento.  Simmer, 
close  covered,  and  as  slow  as  you  can,  for  three  or 
four  hours.  When  quite  tender,  take  off  the  tape, 
set  the  meat  on  a  dish,  and  strain  the  gravy  over. 
Serve  with  currantjelly  sauce. 

This  is  the  best  way  to  dress  this  joint,  unless  it 
be  very  fat,  and  then  it  should  be  roasted.  The 
bone  should  be  stewed  with  it. 

To  prepare  Venison  for  Pasty. 

Take  the  bones  out,  then  season  and  beat  the 
meat.  Lay  it  in  a  stone  jar  in  large  pieces  :  pour 
upon  it  some  plain  drawn  beef  gravy,  but  not  a 
strong  one  :  lay  the  bones  on  top,  then  set  the  jar 
in  a  waterbath,  that  is,  a  saucepan  of  water  over  the 


26  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

fire  ;  simmer  three  or  four  hours  ;  then  leave  it 
in  a  cold  place  till  next  day.  Remove  the  cake  of 
fat,  and  lay  the  meat  in  handsome  pieces  on  the 
dish  :  if  not  sufficiently  seasoned,  add  more  pepper, 
salt,  or  pimento,  as  necessary.  Put  some  of  the 
gravy,  and  keep  the  remainder  for  the  time  of 
serving.  If  the  venison  be  thus  prepared,  it  will 
not  require  so  much  time  to  bake,  or  such  a  very 
thick  crust  as  is  usual,  and  by  which  the  under  part 
is  seldom  done  through. 

Venison  Pasty. 

A  shoulder,  boned,  makes  a  good  pasty  ;  but  it 
must  be  beaten  and  seasoned,  and  the  want  of  fat 
supplied  by  that  of  a  fine  wellhung  loin  of  mutton, 
steeped  twenty  four  hours  in  equal  parts  of  rape, 
vinegar,  and  port. 

The  shoulder  being  sinewy,  it  will  be  of  advan- 
tage to  rub  it  well  with  sugar  for  two  or  three  days  : 
and  when  to  be  used,  wipe  it  perfectly  clean  from 
it,  and  the  wine. 

A  mistake  used  to  prevail,  that  venison  could 
not  be  baked  enough  ;  but,  as  above  directed,  three 
or  four  hours  in  a  slow  oven  will  be  sufficient  to 
make  it  tender,  and  the  flavor  will  be  preserved. 
Either  in  shoulder  or  side,  the  meat  must  be  cut  in 
pieces,  and  laid  with  fat  between,  that  it  may  be 
proportioned  to  each  person,  without  breaking  up 
the  pasty  to  find  it.  Lay  some  pepper  and  salt,  at 
the  bottom  of  the  dish,  and  some  butter,  then  the 
meat  nicely  packed,  that  it  may  be  sufficiently 
done,  but  not  lie  hollow  to  harden  at  the  edges. 


MEATS.  27 

The  venison  bones  should  be  boiled  with  some 
fine  old  mutton.  Of  this  gravy  put  half  a  pint  cold 
into  the  dish,  then  lay  butter  on  the  venison,  and 
cover,  as  well  as  line  the  sides  vnth.  a  thick  crust ; 
but  do  not  put  one  under  the  meat.  Keep  the  re- 
mainder of  the  gravy  till  the  pasty  comes  from  the 
oven  ;  put  it  into  the  middle  by  a  funnel,  quite  hot, 
and  shake  the  dish  to  mix  well.  It  should  be  sea- 
soned with  pepper  and  salt. 

yfn  hnitaiion  of  Venison  Pasty. 

Choose  a  large  wellfed  loin  of  mutton  ;  hang  it 
ten  days,  then  bone  it,  leaving  the  meat  as  whole  as 
possible.  Cover  it  with  brown  sugar  a  day  and  night ; 
then  lay  it  in  a  pickle  of  half  a  pint  of  port  wine, 
and  half  a  pint  of  rape  or  common  vinegar,  twenty 
four  hours  more  ;  then  shake  it  well  in  it  to  take 
off  the  sugar,  but  do  not  wash,  only  wipe  it.  Season 
as  above,  and  bake  4  making  a  gravy  of  the  bones. 

Crust  for  the  pasty,  see  under  the  article  of 
crusts* 

Hashed  Vemsc?ii 

Should  be  wanned  with  its  own,  or  gra\y  with- 
out seasoning,  as  before,  and  only  warmed  through, 
not  boiled.  If  there  be  no  fat  left,  cut  some  sHces 
of  mutton  fat,  set  on  the  fire,  with  aHttle  port  wine 
and  sugar  :  simmer  till  dr)' ;  then  add  it  to  the  hash, 
and  it  will  eat  as  well  as  that  of  the  venison. 

Beef  or  Porky  to  be  salted  for  eating  immediately. 

The  piece  should  not  weigh  more  than  five  or 
fix  pounds.   Salt  it  very  thoroughly  just  before  you 


28  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

put  it  in  the  pot.  Take  a  coarse  cloth,  flour  it 
well,  put  the  meat  in  and  fold  it  up  close.  Put  it 
into  a  pot  of  boihng  water,  and  boil  it  as  long  as 
you  would  any  salt  beef  of  the  same  size,  and  it  will 
be  as  salt  as  if  done  four  or  five  days. 
Beef  alamode. 

Choose  a  piece  of  thick  flank  of  a  fine  heifer,  or 
ox.  Cut  into  long  shces  some  fat  bacon,  but  quite 
free  from  yellow.  Let  each  bit  be  near  an  inch 
thick,  and  dip  them  in  vinegar,  and  then  in  a  sea- 
soning ready  prepared  of  salt,  black  and  Jamaica 
peppers,  and  a  clove  in  finest  powder,  with  parsley, 
chives,  thyme,  savory  and  knotted  marjorum,  shred 
as  small  as  possible,  and  well  mixed.  With  a  sharp 
knife  make  holes  deep  enough  to  let  in  the  larding  ; 
then  rub  the  beef  over  with  the  seasoning,  and 
bind  it  up  tight  with  tape.  Set  it  in  a  well  tinned 
pot  over  a  fire  or  rather  stove.  Three  or  four  on- 
ions must  be  fried  brown  and  put  to  the  beef,  with 
two  or  three  carrots,  one  turnip,  and  a  head  or  two 
of  celery,  and  a  small  quantity  of  water.  Let  it 
simmer  gently  ten  or  twelve  hours,  or  till  extreme- 
ly tender,  turning  the  meat  twice. 

Put  the  gravy  in  a  pan,  remove  the  fat,  keep  the 
beef  covered,  then  put  them  together,  and  add  a 
glass  of  port  wine.  Remove  the  tape,  and  serve 
with  the  vegetables  :  or  you  may  strain  them  off, 
and  send  up  fresh,  cut  in  dice  for  garnish.  Onions 
roasted,  and  then  stewed  with  the  gravy,  are  a 
great  improvement.  A  teacup  full  of  vinegar 
should  be  stewed  with  the  beef. 


MEATS.  29 

Sienved  rump  of  Beef. 

Wash  it  well  :  season  it  high  with  pepper,  Cay- 
enne, salt,  Jamaica  pepper,  three  cloves,  a  blade  of 
mace,  all  in  finest  powder.  Bind  it  up  tight,  and 
lay  it  in  a  pot  that  will  just  hold  it.  Fry  three 
large  onions,  sliced,  and  put  to  it,  with  three  carrots, 
two  turnips,  a  shalot,  four  cloves,  a  blade  of  mace, 
and  some  celery.  Cover  the  meat  with  good  beef 
broth,  or  weak  gravy.  Simmer  as  gently  as  possible 
for  several  hours,  till  quite  tender.  Clear  off  the 
fat,  and  add  to  the  gravy  half  a  pint  of  port  wine,  a 
glass  of  vinegar,  and  a  large  spoonful  of  catsup  ; 
simmer  half  an  hour,  and  serve  in  a  deep  dish. 

Garnish  with  carrots,  turnips,  or  truffles,  and 
morels,  or  pickles  of  different  colours  cut  small, 
and  laid  in  little  heaps  separate,  chopped  parsley, 
chives,  beetroot,  &c.  If  when  done,  the  gravy  be 
too  much  to  fill  the  dish,  take  only  a  part  to  season 
for  serving  :  the  less  water  the  better  ;  and  to  in- 
crease the  richness,  add  a  few  beef  bones  and 
shanks  of  mutton  in  stewing. 

A  spoonful  or  two  of  made  mustard  is  a  great 
improvement  to  the  gravy. 

Rump  roasted  is  excellent  ;  but  in  the  country  is 
generally  sold  whole  with  the  edgebone,  or  cut 
across  instead  of  lengthways,  as  in  London,  when 
there  is  one  piece  for  boiling,  and  the  rump  for 
stewing  or  roasting. 

Stewed  Brisket, 

Put  the  part  that  has  the  hard  fat  into  a  stew 


30  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

pot,  with  a  small  quantity  of  water ;  let  it  boil  up, 
and  skim  it  thoroughly  ;  then  add  carrots,  turnips, 
onions,  celery,  and  a  few  peppercorns.  Stew  till 
extremely  tender  ;  then  take  out  the  flat  bones,  and 
remove  all  the  fat  from  the  soup.  Either  serve  that 
and  the  meat  in  a  tureen,  or  the  former  alone,  and 
the  meat  on  a  dish,  garnished  with  some  of  the  veg- 
etables. The  following  sauce  is  much  admired, 
served  with  the  beef.  Take  half  a  pint  of  the  soup# 
and  mix  with  a  spoonful  of  catsup,  a  glass  of  port 
wine,  a  teaspoonful  of  made  mustard,  a  little  flour, 
a  bit  of  butter,  and  salt :  boil  all  together  a  few 
minutes,  then  pour  it  round  the  meat.  Chop  capers, 
walnuts,  red  cabbage,  pickled  cucumbers,  and 
chives  or  parsley,  small,  and  put  in  separate  heaps 
over  it. 

To  salt  Beef  red.,  luhtck  is  extremely  good  to  eat  fresh 
from  the  pickle,  or  to  hang  to  dry. 

Choose  a  piece  of  beef  with  as  little  bone  as  you 
can,  the  flank  is  most  proper  :  sprinkle  it,  and  let 
it  drain  a  day  ;  then  rub  it  with  common  salt,  salt- 
petre, and  bay  salt,  but  of  the  second  a  small  pro- 
portion ;  and  you  may  add  a  few  grains  of  cochi- 
neal,  all  in  fine  powder.  Rub  the  pickle  every  day 
into  the  meat  for  a  week,  then  only  turn  it. 

It  will  be  excellent  in  eight  days.  In  sixteen, 
drain  it  from  the  pickle,  and  let  it  be  smoked  at 
the  oven  mouth,  where  heated  with  wood,  or  send 
to  the  baker*s.     A  few  days  will  smoke  it. 

A  little  of  the  coarsest  sugar  may  be  added  to 
the  salt. 


MEAIS.  31 

It  eats  well  boiled  tender  with  greens  or  carrots. 
If  to  be  grated  as  Dutch,  then  cut  a  lean  bit :  boil 
it  till  extremely  tender  ;  and  while  hot  put  it  under 
a  press.  When  cold,  fold  it  in  a  sheet  of  paper, 
and  it  will  keep  in  a  dry  place  two  or  three 
months. 

Pressed  Beef. 

Salt  a  bit  of  brisket,  thin  part  of  the  flank,  or  the 
tops  of  the  ribs,  with  salt  and  saltpetre,  five  days  ; 
then  boil  it  gently  till  extremely  tender.  Put  it 
under  a  great  weight,  or  in  a  cheesepress,  till  per- 
fectly cold. 

It  eats  excellently  cold,  and  for  Sandwiches. 
Hunter* s  Beef. 

To  a  round  of  beef  that  weighs  twenty  five 
pounds,  take  three  ounces  of  saltpetre,  three  ounces 
of  coarsest  sugar,  an  ounce  of  cloves,  one  nutmeg, 
half  an  ounce  of  pimento,  and  three  handfuls  of 
common  salt,  all  in  the  finest  powder. 

The  beef  should  hang  two  or  three  days,  then 
rub  the  above  well  into  it.  Turn  and  rub  it  daily 
for  two  or  three  weeks.  The  bone  must  be  re- 
moved at  first.  When  to  be  dressed,  dip  it  in  cold 
water  to  take  off  the  loose  spice  :  bind  it  up  tight 
with  tape  :  put  it  into  a  pan,  and  a  teacup  of  water 
at  bottom  :  put  over  the  pan  a  brown  crust  and 
paper,  and  bake  it  five  or  six  hours.  When  cold, 
remove  the  paste  and  fillet. 

The  gravy  is  very  fine,  and  a  little  of  it  adds 
greatly  to  the  flavour  of  any  hash,  soup,  &C. 


3i;  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

Both  gravy  and  beef  will  keep  some  time.     The 
latter  should  be  cut  with  a  very  sharp  knife,  and 
quite  smooth,  to  prevent  waste. 
Collared  Beef. 

Choose  the  thin  end  of  the  flank  of  fine  mellow 
beef,  but  not  too  fat.  Lay  it  in  a  dish  with  salt, 
and  saltpetre.  Turn  and  rub  it  every  day  for  a 
week,  and  keep  it  cool.  Then  take  out  every  bone 
and  gristle  ;  remove  the  skin  of  the  inside  part,  and 
cover  it  thick  with  the  following  seasoning  cut 
small :  a  large  handful  of  parsley,  the  same  of  sage, 
some  thyme,  marjorum,  pennyroyal,  pepper,  salt 
and  pimento.  Roll  the  meat  up  as  tight  as  possi- 
ble, and  bind  it ;  then  boil  it  gently  for  seven  or 
eight  hours.  A  cloth  must  be  put  round  before 
the  tape.  Put  the  beef  under  a  good  weight  while 
hot,  without  undoing  it ;  the  shape  will  then  be 
oval.  Part  of  a  breast  of  veal,  rolled  in  with  the 
beef,  looks  and  eats  very  well. 

Beefsteak  and  Oyster  Sauce, 

Strain  off  the  liquor  from  the  oysters,  and  throw 
them  in  cold  water  to  take  off  the  grit,  while  you 
simmer  the  former  with  a  bit  of  mace  and  lemon- 
peel  ;  then  put  the  oysters  in,  stew  them  a  few 
minutes,  and  add  a  little  cream  if  you  have  it,  and 
eome  butter,  rubbed  in  a  bit  of  flour  ;  let  them  boil 
up  once,  and  have  rump  steaks,  well  seasoned  and 
broiled,  ready  for  throwing  the  oyster  sauce  over 
the  moment  you  are  to  serve. 


MEATS.  33 

Staffordshire  Beefsteaks* 

Beat  them  a  little  with  a  rolling  pin  :  flour  and 
season  them  ;  then  fry  with  sliced  onion  to  a  fine 
light  brown.  Lay  the  steaks  in  a  stewpan,  and  pour 
as  much  boiling  water  over  as  will  serve  for  sauce  : 
stew  them  very  gently  half  an  hour,  and  add  a 
spoonful  of  catsup  or  walnut  liquor  before  you  serve. 
Italian  Beefsteaks, 

Cut  a  fine  large  steak  from  a  rump  that  has  been 
well  hung  ;  or  it  will  do  from  any  tender  part.  Beat 
it,  and  season  with  pepper,  salt  and  onion.  Lay  it  in 
an  iron  stewpan,  that  has  a  cover  to  fit  quite  close  ; 
set  it  at  the  side  of  a  fire,  without  water.  Take 
care  it  does  not  burn,  but  it  must  have  a  strong 
heat.  In  two  or  three  hours  it  will  be  quite  tender^ 
then  serve  with  its  own  gravy. 
Beef  Collop, 

Cut  thin  slices  of  beef  from  the  rump  or  other 
tender  parts,  and  divide  them  in  pieces  three  inches 
long  :  beat  with  the  blade  of  a  knife,  and  flour 
them.  Fry  the  coUops  quick  in  butter  two  min- 
utes ;  then  lay  them  in  a  small  stewpan,  and  cover 
with  a  pint  of  gravy  :  add  a  bit  of  butter  rubbed 
in  flour,  pepper,  salt,  the  least  bit  of  shalot  shred 
as  fine  as  possible,  half  a  walnut,  four  small  pickled 
cucumbers,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  capers  cut  small. 
Observe  it  does  not  boil ;  and  serve  the  stew  in  a 
very  hot  covered  dish. 

Beefsteak  Pudding. 

Prepare  some  fine  steaks  as  above  :  roll  them 


S4  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

with  fat  between,  and  if  you  approve  shred  onion, 
add  a  very  little.     Lay  a  paste  of  suet  in  a  bason, 
and  put  in  the  rollers  of  steaks  :  cover  the  bason 
with  a  paste,  and  pinch  the  edges  to  keep  the  gravy 
in.     Cover  with  a  cloth  tied  close,  and  let  the  pud- 
ding boil  slowly,  but  for  a  length  of  time. 
Beefsteak  Pie. 
Prepare  the  steaks  as  above,  and  when  seasoned 
and  rolled  with  fat  in  each,  put  them  in  a  dish,  with 
puff  paste  round  the  edges.     Put  a  Httle  water  in 
the  dish,  and  cover  it  with  a  good  crust. 
Baked  Beefsteak  Pudding, 
Make  a  batter  of  milk,  two  eggs,   and  flour,  or 
which  is  much  better,  potatoes  boiled  and  mashed 
through  a  colander.    Lay  a  little  of  it  at  the  bottom 
of  the  dish,  then    put  in  the   steaks  prepared  as 
above,   and  very  well  seasoned  ;  pour  the  remain- 
der of  the  batter  over  them,  and  bake  it. 
Podovies  of  Beef  Patties, 
Shred  raredone  dressed  beef,  with  a  little  fat : 
season  with  pepper,  salt,  and  a  little  shalot  or  onion. 
Make  a  plain  paste,  rool  it  thin,  and  cut  it  in  shape 
like  an  apple  puff ;  fill  it  with  the  mince,  pinch  the 
edges,   and  fry  them  of  a  nice  brown.     The  paste 
should  be  made   with  a  small  quantity  of  butter, 
^gg»  'i"*!  milk. 

Beef  palates. 
Simmer  them  in  water  several  hours,  till  they 
will  peel ;  then  cut  the  palates  in  slices,  or  leave 
them  whole,  r.s  vo«  ch<=)Qse.  and   stew  them  in  a 


MEATS.  35 

rich  gravy  till  as  tender  as  possible.  Before  you 
serve,  season  with  Cayenne,  salt,  and  catsup.  If 
the  gravy  was  drawn  clear,  add  to  the  above  some 
butter  and  flour. 

Beef  Cakes  for  side  d'ls^o  of  dressed  meat. 

Pound  some  beef  that  is  raredone,  with  a  little 
fat  bacon  or  ham.  Season  with  pepper,  salt,  and  a 
little  shalot  or  garhc  :  mix  them  well,  and  make 
into  small  cakes  three  inches  long,  and  half  as  wide 
and  thick  :  fry  them  a  light  brown,  and  serve  them 
in  a  good  thick  gravy. 

Potted  Beef 

Take  two  pounds  of  lean  beef,  rub  it  with  salt- 
petre, and  let  it  lie  one  night ;  then  salt  with  com- 
mon salt,  and  cover  it  with  water  four  days  in  a 
small  pan.  Dry  it  with  a  cloth,  and  season  with 
pepper  :  lay  it  into  as  small  a  pan  as  will  hold  it ; 
cover  it  with  coarse  paste,  and  bake  it  five  hours  in 
a  very  cool  oven.     Put  no  liquor  in. 

When  cold,  pick  out  the  strings  and  fat ;  beat  the 
meat  very  fine  with  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  fine 
butter  just  warm,  but  not  oiled,  and  as  much  of  the 
gravy  as  will  make  it  into  a  paste.  Put  it  into  very 
small  pots,  and  cover  them  with  melted  butter. 
Another  tuay. 

Take  beef  that  has  been  dressed,  either  boiled  er 
roasted  :  beat  it  in  a  mortar  with  some  pepper, 
salt,  a  few  cloves,  grated  nutmeg,  a  little  fine  but- 
ter just  warm. 

Thi?  eats  as  well,  but  the  colour  is  not  so  fine. 


36  DOMESTIC  COOKER V. 

Hessian  Soup  and  Ragout, 
Clean  the  root  of  a  tongue  very  nicely,  and  half 
an  ox  head,  with  salt  and  water,  and  soak  them  af- 
terwards in  plain  water  ;  then  stew  them  in  five  <m* 
six  quarts  of  water  till  tolerably  tender.     Let  the 
soup  stand  to  be  cold  :  take  off  the  cake  of  fat, 
v/hich  will  make  good  paste  for  hot  meat  pies,  or 
serve  to  baste.     Put  to  the  soup  a  point  of  split  peas 
or  a  quart  of  whole,  twelve  carrots,  six  turnips,  six 
potatoes,  six  large  onions,  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs, 
and  two  heads  of  celery.     Simmer  them  without 
the  meat,  till  the  vegetables  are  done  enough  to  pulp 
with  the  peas  through  a  sieve,  when  the  soup  will 
be  about  the  consistence  of  cream.      Season  it  with 
pepper,  salt,  mace,  pimento,  a  clove  or  two,  and  a  ht- ' 
tie  Cayenne,  all  in  the  finest  powder.  If  the  peas  are 
bad,  the  soup  may  not  be  thick  enough  ;  then  boil 
in  it  a  slice  of  roll,  and  put  through  the  colander  ; 
or  put  a  little  rice  flour,  mixing  it  by  degrees. 
The  Ragout, 
Cut  the  nicest  part  of  the  head  in  small  thick  piec- 
es, the  kernels,  and  part  of  the  fat  of  the  root  of 
the  tongue.      Rub  these  with  some  of  the  same  sea- 
soning,  as  you  put  them  into  a  quart  of  the  liquor, 
kept  out  for   that  purpose  before  the  vegetables 
were  added  ;  flour  well  and  simmer  them  till  nicely 
tt-nder.     Then    put  a  Httle   mushroom  and  walnut 
t  ijtup,  a  little  soy,  and  a  glass  of  port  wine,  a  tea- 
-^poonful  of  made  mustard,  and  boil  all  up  together 
h  ' 


MEATS.  37 

If  for  company,   small  eggs  and  forcemeat  balls. 

This  mode  furnishes  an  excellent  soup,  and  a  ra- 
gout at  small  expense,  and  they   are    uncommon. 
The  other  part  will  warm  for  the  family. 
Steiveil  Oxcheek  plain. 

Soak  and  cleanse  a  fine  cheek  the  day  before  you 
would  have  it  eaten.  Put  it  into  a  stewpot  that 
will  cover  close,  with  three  quarts  of  water  :  sim= 
mer  it,  after  it  has  first  boiled  up  and  been  well 
skimmed.  In  two  hours  put  plenty  of  carrots, 
leeks,  two  or  three  turnips,  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs, 
some  whole  pepper,  and  four  Jamaica's.  Skim  fre- 
quently. When  the  meat  is  tender,  take  it  out  : 
let  the  soup  go  cold  :  remove  the  cake  of  fat,  and 
serve  it  separate  or  with  the  meat. 

It  should  be  of  a  fine  brown,  which  may  be  done 
by  burnt  sugar,  or  by  frying  some  onions  quite 
brown  with  flour,  and  simmering  them  with  it. 
The  latter  improves  the  flavour  of  all  soups  and 
gravies  of  the  brown  kind. 

If  vegetables  are  not  approved  in  the  soup,  they 
may  be  taken  out,  and  a  small  roll  be  toasted,  or 
bread  fried  and  added.  Celery  is  a  great  addition, 
and  should  be  always  served.  Where  it  is  not  to 
be  got,  the  seed  gives  an  eqiicilly  good  flavour,  boil- 
ed in,  and  strained  off. 

To  dress  an  Oxcheek  another  ivay. 

Soak  half  a  head  three  hours,  and  clean  it  with 
plenty  of  water.  Take  the  meat  off  the  bones  ;  put 
it  into  a  pan  with  a  large  onion,  a  bunch  of  sweet 
herbs,  some  bruised  pimento,  pepper,  and  salt. 


3»  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

JLay  the  bones  on  the  top  :  pour  on  two  or  three 
quarts  of  water  ;  cover  the  pan  close  with  brown 
paper,  or  a  dish  that  will  fit  close.  Let  it  stand 
eight  or  ten  hours  in  a  slow  oven,  or  simmer  it  by 
the  side  of  the  fire,  or  on  a  hot  hearth.  When  done 
tender,  let  it  go  cold,  having  moved  the  meat  into 
a  clean  pan.  Take  the  cake  of  fat  off,  and  warm 
the  head  in  pieces,  in  the  soup.  Put  what  vegeta- 
bles you  choose. 

Marroiu  Bones, 

Cover  the  top  with  floured  cloth  :  boil,  and  serve 
with  dry  toast. 

To  dress  the  Inside  of  a  cold  Sirloin  of  Beef, 

Cut  out  all  the  meat,  and  a  little  fat,  in  pieces  aa 
thick  as  your  finger,  and  two  inches  long.  Dredge 
with  flour,  and  fry  in  butter,  of  a  nice  brown. 
Drain  the  butter  from  the  meat,  and  toss  up  in  a 
rich  gravy,  seasoned  with  pepper,  salt,  anchovy, 
and  shalot.  On  no  account  let  it  boil.  Before 
you  serve,  add  two  spoonfuls  of  vinegar. 

Garnish  with  crimped  parsley. 

Fricassee  of  cold  Roast  Beef, 

Cut  the  beef  into  very  thin  slices  :  shred  a  handful 
of  parsley  very  small :  cut  an  onion  in  quarters,  and 
put  all  together  into  a  stewpan,  with  a  piece  of  but- 
ter, and  some  strong  broth.  Season  with  salt  and 
pepper,  and  simmer  very  gently  a  quarter  of  an  hour  ; 
then  mix  into  it  the  yelks  of  two  eggs,  a  glass  of  port 
wine,  and  a  spoonful  of  vinegar  :  stir  it  quick,  and,  ♦ 
rubbing  the  dish  with  shalot,  turn  the  fricassee  into  it,   j 


MEATS.  Sd 

To  dress  Cold  Beef  that  has   not  been    done  enough, 
called  Beef  Olives. 

Cut  slices  half  an  inch  thick,  and  four  square  ; 
lay  on  them  a  forcemeat  of  crumbs  of  bread,  shalot, 
a  little  suet  or  fat,  pepper,  and  salt.  Roll  them, 
and  fasten  with  a  small  skewer.  Put  them  into  a 
stewpan,  with  some  gravy  made  of  the  beef  bones, 
or  the  gravy  of  the  meat,  and  a  spoonful  or  tw(^£ 
water,  and  stew  them  till  tender.  Fresh  mew 
will  do. 

To  dress  dittOy  called  Sanders. 

Mince  small  beef  or  mutton,  onion,  pepper,  and 
salt  ;  add  a  little  gravy  :  put  into  scallopshells  or 
saucers  :  make  them  three  parts  full  ;  then  fill 
them  up  with  potatoes,  mashed  with  a  little  cream  : 
put  a  bit  of  butter  on  the  top,  and  brown  them,  in 
an  oven,  or  before  the  fire. 

To  dress  ditto ^  called  Cecils, 

Mince  any  kind  of  meat,  crumbs  of  bread,  a  good 
deal  of  onion,  some  anchovies,  lemonpeel,  salt,  nut- 
meg, chopped  parsley,  and  pepper,  and  a  bit  of 
butter  warm,  and  mix  these  over  a  fire  for  a  few 
minutes.  When  cool  enough,  make  them  up  into 
balls  of  the  size  and  shape  of  a  turkey's  ^ggt  with 
an  ^%g*  Fry  them,  when  sprinkled  with  fine 
crumbs,  of  a  yellow  brown,  and  serve  with  gravy 
as  above. 

Minced  Beef. 

Shred  fine  the  underdone  part,  with  some  of  the 
fat.     Put  into  a  small   stewpan,  some'  onion,  ot 
F  2 


40  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

shalot,  (a  very  little  will  do,)  a  little  water,  pepper, 
and  salt  :  boil  till  the  onion  be  quite  soft  ;  then 
put  some  of  the  gravy  of  the  meat  to  it,  and  the 
mince.  Do  not  let  it  boil.  Having  a  small  hot 
dish,  with  sippets  of  bread  ready,  pour  the  mince 
into  it  ;  but  first  mix  a  large  spoonful  of  vinegar 
with  it ;  or  if  shalot  vinegar,  there  will  be  no  need 
cjjLthe  onion,  or  raw  shalot. 
"#  Hashed  Beef, 

mi'     Do  the  same,  only  the  meet  is  to  be  in  slices  ;  and 
you  may  add  a  spoonful  of  walnut  liquor  or  cast  up. 

Observe  that  it  is  owing  to  boihng  hasljes  or 
minces,  that  they  are  hard.  All  sorts  of  stews,  or 
meat  dressed  second  hand,  should  only  be  simmer- 
ed ;  and  the  latter  only  hot  through. 

To  preserve  Suet  a  tnvelvemonth* 

As  soon  as  it  comes  in,  choose  the  firmest  part, 
and  pick  free  from  skin  and  veins.  In  a  very  nice 
saucepan,  set  it  at  some  distance  from  the  fire,  that 
it  may  melt  without  frying,  or  it  will  taste. 

When  melted,  pour  it  into  a  pan  of  cold  watei 
When  in  a  hard  cake,  wipe  it  very  dry  :  fold  it  in 
fine  paper,  and  then  in  a  linen  bag,  and  keep  in  a 
diy,  but  not  hot  place.  When  used,  scrape  it  fine  ; 
and  it  will  make  a  fine  crust,  either  with  or  \yithout 
gutter. 

Round  of  Beef 

Should  be  carefully  salted,  and  wet  with  the 
pickle  for  eight  or  ten  days.  The  bone  should  be 
C^ut  put  lirst,  and  the  beef  skewered  and  filletted,  to 


MEATS.  At 

make  it  quite  round.  It  may  be  stuffed  with  parsley, 
if  approved  ;  in  which  case,  the  holes  to  admit  it 
must  be  made  with  a  sharp  pointed  knife,  and  the 
parsley  coarsely  cut  and  stuffed  in  tight.  As  soon 
as  it  boils,  it  should  be  skimmed,  and  afterwards 
kept  boiling  very  gently. 

To  roast  Tongue  and  Udder, 

After  cleaning  the  tongue  well,  salt  it  with  com- 
mon salt  and  saltpetre  three  days  ;  then  boil  it,  and 
likewise  a  fine  young  udder,  and  some  fat  to  it,  till 
tolerably  tender  ;  then  tie  the  thick  part  of  one  to 
the  thin  part  of  the  other,  and  roast  the  tongue  and 
udder  together. 

Serve  them  with  a  good  gravy,  and  currentjelly 
sauce.     A  few  cloves  should  be  stuck  in  the  udder. 

This  is  an  excellent  dish. 

To  pickle  Tongues  for  hoUlng. 

Cut  off  the  root,  leaving  a  little  of  the  kernel  and 
fat.  Sprinkle  some  salt,  and  let  ii  drain  from 
slime  till  next  day  :  then,  for  each  tongue,  mix 
large  spoonful  of  common  salt,  tlie  same  of  coarse 
sugar,  and  about  half  as  much  of  saltpetre  ;  rub  it 
v.ellin,  anddo  so  every  day.  In  a  week  add  another 
heaped  spoonful  of  salt.  If  rubbed  every  day,  a 
tongue  will  be  ready  in  a  fortnight  ;  but  if  only 
turned  in  the  pickle  daily,  it  will  keep  four  or  five 
weeks  without  being  too  salt. 

If  you  dr}'  tongues,  v/rite  the  date  on  a  parchment 
and  tie  on.  Smoke  them,  or  plainly  dry  them,  if 
you  like  best. 


\ 


and  "^t/M 


42  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

When  to  be  dressed,  boil  it  extremely  tender  i 
allow  five  hours  ;  and  if  done  sooner,  it  is  easily  kept 
hot.  The  longer  kept  after  drying,  the  higher  it 
will  be  :  if  hard,  it  may  require  soaking  three  or 
four  hours. 

Another  ivay. 

Clean  as  above.  For  two  tongues,  one  ounce  of 
saltpetre,  and  one  ounce  of  sal  prunella.  Rub  them 
well.  In  two  days,  having  well  rubbed  them,  cov- 
er them  with  common  salt.  Turn  them  daily  for 
three  weeks  ;  then  dry,  rub  in  bran,  and  paper  or 
smoke  them.  In  ten  days  they  will  be  fit  to  eat  if  {^ 
not  dried. 

Beef  Heart, 

Wash  with  care.  Stuff  as  you  do  hare,  and  serve 
with  rich  gravy,  and  currentjelly  sauce. 

Hash  with  the  same,  and  port  wine. 
Tripe. 

Tripe  may  be  served  in  a  tureen.  Stewed  with 
iuilk  and  onion  till  tender.   Melted  butter  for  sauce. 

Or,  fried  in  small  bits  dipped  in  butter  :  or  stew  | 
the  thin  part,  cut  in  bits,  in  gravy,  and  thicken  with 
flour  and  butter,  and  add  a  little  custup  :  or  fric- 
casseed  with  white  sauce. 

Bubble  and  Squeak. 

Boil,  chop,  and  fry,  with  a  little  butter,  pepper, 
and  salt,  some  cabbage,  and  lay  on  it  slices  of  rare- 
done  beef,  lightly  fried. 

In  both  the  following  receipts,  the  roots  must  be 
taken  off  the  tongue  before  salted. 


M£A1\  43 

Stewed  Tongue. 

Salt  a  tongue  with  saltpetre  and  common  salt  for 
a  week,  turning  it  daily.  Boil  it  tender  enough  to 
peel.  Wh^  done,  stew  it  in  a  moderately  strong 
gravy.  Season  with  soy,  mushroom  catsup,  Cay- 
enne, pounded  cloves,  and  salt  if  necessary. 

Serve  with  truffles,  morels,  and  mushrooms. 
J^n  excellent  mode  of  doing  Tongues  to  eat  cold. 

Season  with  common  salt  and  saltpetre,  brown 
sugar,  a  little  bay  salt,  pepper,  cloves,  mace,  and 
pimento,  in  finest  powder,  for  fourteen  days  :  then 
remove  the  pickle,  put  it  in  a  small  pan,  and  lay 
some  butter  on  it ;  cover  with  a  brown  crust,  and 
bake  slowly  till  so  tender  that  a  straw  would  pierce  it. 

The  thin  part  of  tongues,  if  hung  up  to  become 
dry,  grate  as  hung  beef ;  and  likewise  make  a  fine 
addition  to  the  flavour  of  omlets. 
Leg  of  Veal, 

Let  the  fillet  be  cut  large  or  small,  as  best  suits 
the  number  of  your  company.  The  bone  being  tak- 
en out,  fill  the  space  with  a  fine  stuffing,  and  let  it  be 
skewered  quite  round,  and  send  the  large  side  up- 
permost. When  half  roasted,  if  not  before,  put  a 
paper  over  the  fat,  and  observe  to  allow  a  sufficient 
time,  and  to  put  it  a  good  distance  from  the  fire,  the 
meat  being  very  solid.  You  may  pot  some  of  it. 
Knuckle, 

As  few  people  are  fond  of  boiled  veal,  it  may  be 
well  to  leave  the  knuckle  small,  and  to  take  off 
3ome  cutlets  or  coUops,  before  it  be  dressed ;  but 


44  •  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

as  the  knuckle  will  keep  longer  than  the  fillet,  it  is 
best  not  to  cut  ofF  the  slices  till  wanted.  Break  the 
bones  to  make  it  take  less  room  ;  and,  washing  it 
well,  put  it  into  a  saucepan  with  three  onions,  a 
blade  of  mace  or  two,  and  a  few  peppercorns  ; 
cover  with  water,  and  simmer  it  till  thoroughly  rea- 
dy. In  the  mean  time  some  macaroni  should  be 
boiled  with  it,  if  approved  ;  or  rice,  or  a  little  rice 
flour,  to  give  it  a  small  degree  of  thickness  ;  but 
do  not  put  too  much.  Before  it  be  served,  add  half 
a  pint  of  milk  and  cream,  and  let  it  come  up  with 
or  without  the  meat. 

Or,  fry  the  knuckle,  with  sliced  onion  and  butter, 
to  a  good  brown,  and  have  ready  peas,  lettuce,  on- 
ion, a  cucumber  or  two,  stewed  in  a  small  quan- 
tity of  water  an  hour,  then  add  to  the  veal,  and 
stew  till  the  meat  be  tender  enough  to  eat,  not  to 
be  overdone.  Throw  in  pepper,  salt,  and  a  bit  of 
shred  mint,  and  serve  all  together. 
Cutlets  Malntenon, 

Cut  slices  about  three  quarters  of  an  inch  thick  ; 
beat  them  with  a  rolling  pin,  and  wet  them  on  both 
sides  with  egg  :  dip  them  into  a  seasoning  of  bread 
crumbs,  parsley,  thyme,  knotted  marjorum,  pep- 
per, salt,  and  a  little  nutmeg  grated  ;  then  put 
them  in  papers  folded  over,  and  broil  them  ;  and 
have  ready  in  a  boat,  melted  butter,  with  a  little 
mushroom  catsup. 

Cutlets  another  way. 

Prepare  as  above,  and  fry  them.     Lay  them  in  a 


MEATS.  45 

dish,  and  keep  them  hot.  Dredge  a  little  flour, 
and  put  a  bit  of  butter  into  the  pan,  brown  it ;  then 
pour  a  little  boiling  water  into  it,  and  boil  quick. 
Season  with  pepper,  salt,  and  catsup,  and  pour  over 
them. 

Another  tuay. 

Prepare  as  before,   and  dress  the  cutlets  in  a 

Dutch  oven.     Pour  over  them  melted  butter  and 

mushrooms.     Or,  pepper,  salt,  and  broil,  especially 

neck  stakes.     They  are  excellent  without  herbs. 

Coll  ops  dressed  quick. 

Cut  them  as  thin  as  paper,  with  a  very  sharp 
knife,  and  in  small  bits.  Throw  the  skin,  and  any 
odd  bits  of  the  veal  into  a  little  water,  with  a  dust 
of  pepper  and  salt :  set  them  on  the  fire  while  you 
beat  the  coUops,  and  dip  them  in  a  seasoning  of 
herbs,  bread,  pepper,  salt,  and  a  scrape  of  nutmeg, 
having  first  wetted  them  in  egg  ;  then  put  a  bit  of 
butter  into  a  frying  pan,  and  give  the  collops  a  very 
quick  fry  ;  for  as  they  are  so  thin,  two  minutes  will 
do  them  on  both  sides.  Put  them  into  a  hot  dish 
before  the  fire,  then  strain  and  thicken  the  gravy. 
Give  a  boil  in  the  fryingpan,  and  pour  over  the 
collops.  A  little  catsup  is  an  improvement. 
Another  ivay. 

Fry  them  in  butter,  only  seasoned  with  salt  and 
pepper  :  then  simmer  them  in  gravy,  white  or 
brown,  with  bits  of  bacon  served  with  them. 

If  white,  add  lemonpeel  and  mace,  and  lome 
cream. 


4^  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

Veal  Collops. 

Cut  long  thin  collops  :  beat  them  well,  and  lay- 
on  them  a  bit  of  thin  bacon  the  same  size  ;  and 
spread  forcemeat  on  that,  seasoned  high,  with  the 
addition  of  a  little  garlick,  and  Cayenne.  Roll 
them  up  tight,  about  the  size  of  two  fingers,  but 
not  more  than  two  or  three  inches  long.  Put  a 
very  small  skewer  to  fasten  each  firm.  Rub  egg 
over  them,  and  fry  of  a  fine  brown,  and  pour  over 
them  a  rich  brown  gravy. 

Scollops  of  cold  Veal  or  Chicken, 

Mince  the  meat  extremely  small,  and  set  it  ovei* 
tlie  fire,  with  a  scrape  of  nutmeg,  a  little  pepper 
and  salt,  and  a  little  cream,  for  a  few  minutes  ;  then 
put  it  into  the  scoUopshells,  and  fill  them  with 
crumbs  of  bread ;  over  which  put  some  bits  of 
butter,  and  brown  them  before  the  fire. 

Veal  or  chicken  as  above  prepared,  served  in  a 
dish,  and  lightly  covered  with  crumbs  of  bread,  fri- 
ed (or  they  may  be  put  on  in  little  heaps),  look 
and  eat  well.  -f 

Scotch  Collops, 

Cut  veal  in  thin  bits,  about  three  inches  over,  and 
rather  round  :  beat  with  a  rolling  pin  :  grate  a  lit- 
tle nutmeg  over  them  :  dip  in  the  yelk  of  an  egg^ 
and  fry  them  in  a  little  butter  of  a  fine  brown  ; 
pour  it  from  them  ;  and  have  ready  warm,  to  pour 
upon  them,  half  a  pint  of  gravy,  a  little  bit  of  butter 
rubbed  into  a  little  flour,  to  which  put  a  yelk  of  an 
^agi  two  large  spoonfuls  of  cream,  and  a  bit  of  salt. 


MEATS.  47 

JDo  not  boil  the  sauce,  but  stir  it  until  of  a  fine 
thickness  to  serve  with  the  coUops. 
Kidney. 

Chop  veal  kidney,  and  some  of  the  fat,  likewise 
a  little  leek  or  onion,  pepper,  salt.  Roll  it  up  with 
an  Qgg  into  balls,  and  fry  them. 

Cold  fillet  makes  the  finest  potted  veal  ;  or  you 
may  do  it  as  follows : 

Season  a  large  slice  of  the  fillet  before  dressed, 
with  some  mace,  peppercorns,  and  two  or  three 
cloves,  and  lay  it  close  into  a  potting  pan  that  will 
but  just  hold  it,  and  fill  it  up  with  water,  and  bake 
it  three  hoiu-s.  Then  pound  it  quite  small  in  a 
mortar,  and  add  salt  to  taste.  Put  a  little  gravy, 
that  was  baked,  to  it  in  pounding,  if  to  be  eaten 
soon  ;  otherwise  only  a  little  butter  just  melted. 

When  done,  cover  it  over  with  butter. 
To  pot  Veal  or  Chicken  nv'ith  Ham, 

Pound  some  cold  veal  or  white  of  chicken,  sea- 
soned as  above,  and  put  layers  of  it  with  layers  of 
pounded  ham,  or  rather  shred  :  press  each  down, 
and  cover  over  wi^butter. 

Ned  of  Feal. 

Cut  off  the  scrag  to  boil,  and  cover  it  with  onion 
sauce.  It  should  be  boiled  in  milk  and  water. 
Parsley  and  butter  may  be  served  with  it,  instead 
of  the  former  sauce  ;  or  it  may  be  stewed  with 
'whole  rice,  small  onions,  and  peppercorns,  v^^ith  a 
very  little  water  ;  or  boiled  and  eaten  with  bacon 
and  greens. 


48  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

Best  end,  roasted,  broiled  as  steaks,  or  made  into 
pies. 

Breast  of  Veah 

Before  roasted,  if  large,  the  two  ends  may  be 
taken  off  and  fried  to  stew,  or  the  whole  may  be 
roasted.     Butter  should  be  poured  over  it. 

If  any  be  left,  cut  the  pieces  in  handsome  sizes, 
and  putting  them  into  a  stev/pan,  pour  some  broth 
over  it  ;  or  if  you  have  none,  a  little  water  will  do. 
Add  a  bunch  of  herbs,  a  blade  or  two  of  mace,  some 
pepper,  and  an  anchovy.  Stew  till  the  meat  is  ten- 
der :  thicken  with  butter  and  flour,  and  add  a  Httle 
catsup  ;  or  the  whole  breast  may  be  stewed,  after 
cutting  off  the  two  ends. 

The  sweetbread  is  to  be  served  up  whole  in  the 
middle  ;  and  if  you  have  a  few  mushrooms,  truffles, 
and  morels,  stew  them  with  it,  and  serve. 

Boiled    breast    of  veal,    smothered  with  onion 
sauce,  is  an  excellent  dish,  if  not  old,  or  too  fat. 
Rolled  Breast  of  Veal. 

Bone  it,  and  take  off  the  thick  skin  and  gristit?, 
and  beat  the  meat  with  a  rolhng  pin.  Season  with 
herbs  chopped  very  fine,  mixed  with  salt,  pepper, 
and  mace.  Lay  some  thick  slices  of  fine  ham,  or 
roll  into  it  two  or  three  calves'  tongues  of  a  fine 
red,  and  boiled  first  an  hour  or  two  and  skinned. 
Bind  it  up  tight  in  a  cloth,  and  tape  it.  Set  it  over 
the  fire  to  simmer  in  a  small  quantity  of  water  un- 
til it  be  quite  tender.  Some  hours  will  be  neces- 
sary. 


MEATS.  49 

Lay  it  on  the  dresser  with  a  board  and  weight 
on  it  till  quite  cold. 

Pigs*  or  calves'  feet  boiled  and  taken  from  the 
bones,  may  be  put  in  or  round  it.  The  different 
colours,  laid  in  layers,  look  well  when  cut  ;  and 
yelks  of  eggs  boiled  may  be  put  in,  with  beet  root, 
grated  ham,  and  chopped  parsley. 
Shoulder  of  Veal, 

Cut  off  the  knuckle  of  the  shoulder,  for  a  stew 
or  gravy.  Roast  the  other  part,  with  stuffing. 
You  may  lard  it.     Serve  with  melted  butter. 

Blade  bone,  with  a  good  deal  of  meat  left  on,  eats 
extremely  well  with  mushroom  or  oyster  sauce  ;  or 
mushroom  catsup  in  butter. 

Different  ways  of  dressing  Calf^s  Head. 
To  Boil. 

Clean  it  very  nicely,  and  soak  it  in  water,  that  it 
may.  look  very  white.  Take  out  the  tongue  to  salt, 
and  the  brains  to  make  a  httle  dish.  Boil  the  head 
extremely  tender  ;  then  strew  it  over  with  crumbs 
and  chopped  parsley,  and  brown  them  ;  or,  if  pre- 
ferred, leave  one  side  plain. 

Bacon  and  greens  are  to  be  served  to  eat  v4th  it. 

The  brains  must  be  boiled,  and  then  mixed  with 
melted  butter,  chopped  scalded  sage,  pepper,  and 
salt. 

If  any  be  left  of  the  head,  it  may  be  hashed  next 
day,  and  a  few  slices  of  bacon  just  warmed  and  put 
round. 

Cold  calf's  head  eats  well. 


50  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

Hashed  Calfs  Head. 

When  half  boiled,  cut  off  the  meat  in  slices,  half 
an  inch  thick,  and  two  or  three  inches  long.  Brown 
some  butter,  flour,  and  sliced  onion,  and  throw  in 
the  slices  with  some  good  gravy,  trufRes,  and 
morels.  Give  it  one  boil,  skim  it  well,  and  set  it 
in  a  moderate  heat  to  simmer  till  very  tender. 

Season  with  pepper,  salt,  and  Cayenne,  at  first  \ 
and  ten  minutes  before  serving,  throw  in  some 
shred  parsley,  and  a  very  small  bit  of  tarragon, 
and  knotted  marjoram,  cut  as  fine  as  possible.  Just 
before  you  serve,  add  the  squeeze  of  a  lemon. 
Forcemeat  baHs  and  bits  of  bacon  rolled  round. 
Mod  Turtle. 

Bespeak  a  calf's  head  with  the  skin  on  :  cut  in 
half,  and  clean  it  well  ;  then  half  boil  it.  Have  all 
the  meat  taken  off  in  square  bits,  and  break  the 
bones  of  the  head  :  boil  them  in  some  veal  and  beef 
broth,  to  add  to  the  richness.  Fry  some  shalot 
in  butter  :  dredge  in  flour  sufficient  to  thicken  the 
gravy,  which  stir  into  the  browning,  and  give 
it  one  or  two  boils  :  skim  carefully,  then  put  in  the 
head.  Put  in  a  pint  of  Madeira  wine,  and  sim- 
mer till  the  meat  be  quite  tender.  About  ten 
minutes  before  your  serve,  put  in  some  basil, 
tarragon,  chives,  parsley,  Cayenne  pepper,  and 
salt  to  your  taste  ;  and  two  spoonfuls  of  mushroom 
castup,  and  one  of  soy.  Squeeze  the  juice  of  ? 
lemon  into  the  tureen,  and  pour  the  soup  upon  i 
Forcemeat  balls,  and  small  eggs. 


MEATS.  51 

yt  cheaper  <way. 

Prepare  half  a  calf's  head,  'without  the  skin,  as  a- 
bove.  When  the  meat  is  cut  off,  break  the  bones,  and 
put  into  a  saucepan,  with  some  gravy  made  of  beef  and 
veal  bones,  and  seasoned  with  friedonions,  herbs, mace, 
and  pepper.  Have  ready  two  or  three  ox  palates, 
boiled  so  tender  as  to  blanch,  and  cut  in  small  pieces  ; 
to  which  a  cowheel,  likewise  cut  in  pieces  is  a  great 
improvement.  Brown  some  butter,  flour,  and  onion, 
and  pour  the  gravy  to  it ;  then  add  the  meats  as  above, 
and  stew.  Half  a  pint  of  sherry  wine,  an  ancho- 
vy, two  spoonfuls  of  walnut  castup,  the  same  of 
mushroom,  some  chopped  herbs  as  before.  Balls,  &c. 
Forcemeat  as  for  Turtle^  at  the  Bushy  Bristol. 

A  pound  of  fine  fresh  suet,  one  ounce  of  ready 
dressed  veal  or  chicken,  chopped  fine,  crumbs  of 
bread,  a  little  shalot  or  onion,  salt,  white  pepper, 
nutmeg,  mace,  pennyroyal,  parsley,  and  lemon  ; 
thyme  finely  shred  :  beat  as  many  fresh  eggs,  yelks 
and  whites  separately,  as  will  ma^the  above  ingre- 
dients into  a  moist  paste  :  roll  \mo  small  balls,  and 
boil  them  in  fresh  lard,  putting  them  in  just  as  it 
boils  up.  When  of  a  light  brown,  take  them  out, 
and  drain  them  before  the  fire.  If  the  suet  be  moist 
or  stale,  a  great  many  more  eggs  will  be  necessary. 

Balls  made  this  way  are  remarkably  light ;  but 
being  greasy,  some  people  prefer  them  with  less 
suet  and  eggs. 

Another  Forcemeat,  for  Balls  or  Patties, 

Pound  cold  veal  or  chicken  :  take  out  the  strings  r 
G  2 


S2  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

?uld  some  fat  bacon  ;  and,  if  you  like,  the  least  poi 
lion  of  scraped  ham  :  herbs,  as  for  the  preceding  : 
pepper,  salt,  a  little  nutmeg,  crumbs  of  bread,  a 
little  onion,  and  two  eggs. 

N'ote.  When  forcemeat  is  to  be  eaten  cold,  as  in 
pies,  bacon  is  far  better  than  suet,  and  the  taste  is 
always  higher. 

Another  Mock  Turtle, 

Put  into  a  pan  a  knuckle  of  veal,  two  fine  cow- 
heels,  two,  onions,  a  few  cloves,  peppers,  Jamaica 
peppers,  mace,  and  sweet  herbs  :  cover  with  water, 
and  then,  tying  a  thick  paper  over  the  pan,  set  it 
in  an  oven  for  three  hours.  When  cold,  take  off 
the  fat  very  nicely  :  cut  the  meat  and  feet  into  bits 
an  inch  and  half  square  :  remove  the  bones  and 
coarser  parts  ;  then  put  the  other  on  to  warm,  with 
walnut  and  mushroom  catsup,  a  large  spoonful  of 
each,  half  a  pint  of  sherry  or  Madeira  wine,  a  little 
mushroom  powder,  and  the  jelly  of  the  meat. 
When  hot,  if  it^w-ant  any  more  seasoning,  add  it, 
and  serve  with  flpd  eggs,  forcemeat  balls,  a  juice 
of  lemon,  and  a  spoonful  of  soy. 

This  is  a  very  easy  process,  and  the  dish  is  excel- 
lent. 

Anoth^  Ditto. 

Stew  a  pound  and  a  hi^f  of  scrag  of  mutton,  with 
three  pints  of  water  to  a  quart  ;  then  set  the  broth 
en,  yath  a  calPs  foot  and  a  cowheei :  cover  the 
stewpan  tight,  and  simmer  till  you  can  cut  off  the 
i-neat  from  the  bones  in  proper  bits.     Set  it  on  again,^ 


MEATS.  S.i 

;  vMih  the  broth,  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  Madeira  or 
I  sherry  \vine,  a  large  onion,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  Cay- 
I  cnne  pepper,  a  bit  of  lemonpeel,  two  anchovies,  some 
sweet  herbs,  and  eighteen  oysters  cut  in  pieces,  and 
then  chopped  fine,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  little  nut- 
meg, and  the  liquor  of  the  oysters  :  cover  tight, 
and  simmer  three  quarters  of  an  hour.  Serve  with 
forcemeat  balls,  and  hard  eggs  in  the  tureen. 

Note.  Co  wheels,  w^ith  veal  or  head,  ave  a  great 
improvement  ;  and  if  not  too  much  boiled,  have  a 
very  fine  flavour  stewed  for  turtle ;  and  are  more 
solid  than  the  calPs  feet. 

Calfs  Head  Pie. 
Stew  a  knuckle  of  veal  till  fit  for  eating,  with 
two  onions,  a  few  isinglass  shavings,  a  bunch  of 
herbs,  a  blade  of  mace,  and  a  few  peppercorns,  in 
two  quarts  or  less  of  water.  Keep  the  broth  for 
the  pie.  Take  off  a  bit  of  the  meat  for  the  balls, 
and  let  the  other  be  eaten  ;  but  simmer  the  bones 
in  the  broth  till  it  is  very  good.  Half  boil  the  head, 
and  cut  it  in  squaie  bits  :  put  a  JJer  of  ham  at  the 
bottom,  then  some  head,  first  fat  then  lean,  with 
balls  and  hard  eggs  cut  in  half,  and  so  on  till  th<? 
dish  be  full  ;  but  be  particularly  careful  not  to  place 
the  pieces  close,  or  the  pie  will  be  too  solid,  and 
there  will  be  no  space  for  the  jelly*  The  meat 
must  be  first  pretty  well  seasoned  with  pepper  and 
salt,  and  a  scrape  or  two  of  nutmeg.  Put  a  httle  wa- 
ter and  a  little  gravy  into  the  dish,  and  cover  it  with 
a  tolerably  thick  crust  :  bake  it  in  a  slow  oven  ;  and 


54  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

when  done,  pour  into  it  as  much  gravy  as  it  can 
possibly  hold,  and  do  not  cut  it  till  perfectly  cold  : 
in  doing  which,  observe  to  use  a  very  sharp  knife, 
and  first  cut  out  a  large  bit,  going  down  to  the  bot- 
tom of  the  dish  ;  and  when  done  thus,  the  different 
colours,  and  the  clear  jelly,  have  a  beautiful  mar- 
bled appearance. 

A  small  pie  may  be  made  to  eat  hot ;  which, 
with  high  seasoning,  oysters,  mushrooms,  truffles, 
morels,  &c.  has  a  very  good  appearance. 

The  cold  pie  will  keep  some  days.  Slices  make 
a  pretty  side  dish. 

The  pickled  tongues  of  former  calves'  heads  may 
be  cut  in,  to  vary  the  colour,  instead  of,  or  besides 
ham. 

Calfi  Head  Fricasseed. 

Clean,  and  half  boil  half  a  head.  Cut  the  meat 
in  small  bits,  and  put  into  a  tosser,  with  a  little 
gravy  made  of  the  bones,  and  some  of  the  water  it 
was  boiled  in,  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  an  onion, 
and  a  blade  of  r^|e.  If  you  have  a  sweetbread,  or 
young  cockerels  in  the  house,  use  the  cockscombs  ; 
having  first  boiled  them  tender  and  blanched.  Sea- 
son the  gravy  with  a  little  pepper,  nutmeg,  and  salt : 
rub  down  some  flour  and  butter,  and  give  all  aboil 
together ;  then  remove  the  herbs  and  onion,  and 
add  a  little  cup  of  cream,  but  do  not  boil  it  in.  Serve 
with  small  bits  of  bacon  rolled  round,  and  balls. 

Veal  Patties. 
.    jVIince  some  v??.l,  thn"  is  ffC-t  qn^^c  --^nrp.  ^-'tAh  n 


MEATS.  55 

little  parsley,  lemonpeel,  a  scrape  of  nutmeg,  and 
a  little  salt :  add  a  little  cream  and  gravy  just  to 
moisten  the  meat ;  and  if  you  have  any  ham,  scrape 
a  little  bit  and  add  to  it.  Do  not  wann  it  till  the 
patties  are  baked  ;  and  observe  to  put  a  bit  of  bread 
into  each,  to  prevent  the  paste  from  rising  into  cake. 
Fr'icandeau. 

Cut  a  large  piece  out  of  the  prime  part  of  a  leg 
of  veal,  about  nine  inches  long,  and  half  as  broad 
and  thick  :  beat  it  with  a  rolhng  pin  ;  then  lard  it 
very  thickly  on  one  side  and  the  edges.  Put  it  in 
a  small  stewpan,  with  three  pints  of  water,  a  pound 
of  veal  cut  in  small  bits,  and  four  or  five  ounces  of 
lean  ham,  and  an  onion  :  simmer  till  the  meat  be 
tender ;  then  take  it  out  ;  cover  to  keep  it  moist, 
and  boil  the  gravy  till  it  be  a  fine  brown,  and  much 
reduced :  then  put  the  larded  meat  back  into  thie 
gravy,  and  pour  a  httle  of  it  over  with  a  spoon. 
When  quite  hot,  serve  the  meat  and  gravy  round 
in  the  dish,  with  the  following  sauce  in  a  boat. 
Sorrel  Sauce. 

Wash  a  quantity  of  sorrel,  and  boil  it  tender  in 
the  smallest  quantity  of  water  you  can  :  strain  and 
chop  it :  stew  it  with  a  little  butter,  pepper,  and  salt ; 
and  if  you  hke  it  high,  add  a  spoonful  cf  gravy. 

Be  careful  to  do  it  in  a  very  well  tinned  saucepan  ; 
or  if  you  have  a  silver  one,  or  a  silver  mug,  it  is  far  bet- 
ter ;  as  the  sorrel  is  very  sour,  especially  in  spring. 
Veal  Olives. 

Cut  long  thin  collops  ;    beat  them,  and  lay  on 


56  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

them  thin  slices  of  fat  bacon,  and  over  a  layer  or 
forcemeat  seasoned  high,  with  the  addition  of  shred 
shalot,  and  Cayenne.  Roll  them  tight,  about  the 
size  of  two  fingers,  but  not  more  than  two  or  three 
inches  long  ;  fasten  them  round  with  a  small  skew- 
er :  rub  egg  over,  and  fry  them  of  a  light  brown. 

Serve  with  brown  gravy. 

Calf^s  Liver. 

Sliced  :  seasoned  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  nice- 
ly broiled.  Rub  a  bit  of  cold  butter  on  it,  and 
serve  hot  and  hot. 

Roasted. 

Wash  and  wipe  it  :  then  cut  a  long  hole  in  it,  and 
stuff  it  with  crumbs  of  bread,  chopped  anchovy, 
herbs,  a  good  deal  of  fat  bacon,  onion,  salt,  pepper, 
a  bit  of  butter,  and  an  egg.  Sew  the  liver  up  ; 
then  lard  or  wrap  it  in  a  veal  caul,  and  roast  it. 

Serve  with  a  good  brown  gravy,  and  currantjelly. 
Siveetbreads. 

Half  boil,  and  stew  in  a  white  gravy.  Add  cream, 
flour,  butter,  nutmeg,  salt,  and  white  pepper  :  or,  in 
brown,  seasoned  ;  or,  after  parboiling,  cover  with 
crumbs,  herbs,  and  seasoning,  and  brown  in  a  Dutch 
oven.  Serve  with  butter,  and  mushroom  catsup,  or 
gravy. 

Sweetbread  Ragout. 

Cut  them  about  the  size  of  a  walnut  :  wash  and 
dry  them  ;  then  fry  of  a  fine  brown.  Pour  to  them 
a  good  gravy,  seasoned  with  salt,  pepper,  allspice, 
mushrooms,  or  the  catsup.     Strain,  and  thicken 


MEATS.  £7 

witli  butter,  and  a  little  flour.     You  may  add  truf- 
iles,  and  morels,  and  the  mushrooms. 
yeal  Sausages, 

Chop  equal  quantities  of  lean  veal  and  fat  bacon, 
a  handful  of  sage,  a  little  salt,  pepper,  and  a  few 
anchovies.  Beat  all  in  a  mortar  ;  and,  when  used, 
roll  and  fry  it,  and  serve  with  fried  sippets. 

Spadbury's  veal  and  pork  sausages,  under  the 
article  of  pork. 

To  make  excellent  meat  of  a  Hog's  Head, 

Split  the  head,  take  out  the  brains,  cut  off  the 
ears,  and  sprinkle  it  with  common  salt  for  a  day  ; 
then  drain.  Salt  it  well  with  common  salt  and 
saltpetre  three  days  ;  then  lay  salt  and  head  into 
water  (a  small  quantity)  for  two  days.  Wash  it, 
and  boil  it  till  all  the  bones  will  come  out :  remove 
them,  and  chop  the  head  as  quick  as  possible  ; 
having  skinned  the  tongue,  and  taken  the  skin 
carefully  off  the  head,  to  put  under  and  over.  Sea- 
son with  pepper,  salt,  a  little  mace  or  Jamaica  s.  Put 
the  skin  into  a  small  pan  ;  press  the  cut  head  in, 
and  put  the  other  skin  over  :  press  it  down. 
When  cold,  it  will  turn  out  and  make  a  kind  ot 
brown.  If  too  fat,  you  may  put  a  few  bits  of  lean 
pork  to  go  through  the  same  process.  Add  salt 
and  vinegar,  and  boil  with  some  of  the  liquor  for  a 
pickle  to  keep  it. 

To  Scald  a  Sucking  Pig. 
The  moment  the  pig  is  killed,   put  it  into  cold 
water  for  a  few  minutes  ;  then  rub  it  over  with  a 


JS  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

little  rosin,  beaten  extremely  small,  and  put  it  into 
a  pail  of  scalding  water  half  a  minute  ;  take  it  out, 
lay  it  on  a  table,  and  pull  off  the  hair  as  quickly  as 
possible.  If  any  part  does  not  come  off,  put  it  in 
again.  When  perfectly  clean,  wash  it  well  with 
warm  water,  then  in  two  or  three  cold  waters,  lest 
any  flavour  of  the  rosin  should  remain.  Take  off 
the  four  feet  at  the  first  joint  :  make  a  slit  down  ; 
the  belly,  and  take  out  the  entrails  :  put  the  Hver, 
heart,  and  lights  to  the  feet  ;  wash  the  pig  v/ell  in 
cold  water,  diy  it  thoroughly,  and  fold  it  in  a  wet 
cloth  to  keep  it  from  the  air. 

To  roast  a  sucking  Pig. 
If  you  can  get  it  when  just  killed,  it  is  of  great  ad- 
vantage. Let  it  be  scalded,  which  those  who  sell  usu- 
ally do.  Then  put  some  sage,  crumbs  of  bread,  salt, 
and  pepper  in  the  belly,  and  sew  it  up.  Observe  to 
skewer  the  legsback,  or  the  under  part  will  not  crisp. 
Lay  it  to  a  brisk  fire  till  thoroughly  dr)^ ;  then 
have  ready  some  butter,  in  a  dry  cloth,  and  rub  the 
pig  with  it  in  every  part.  Dredge  as  much  flour 
over  as  will  possibly  lie,  and  touch  it  no  more  till 
ready  to  serve  ;  then  scrape  off  the  flour,  with  the 
greatest  care,  with  a  blunt  knife  :  rub  it  well  with 
the  buttered  cloth  :  take  off  the  head  while  yet  at 
the  fire,  and  take  out  the  brains,  and  mix  them 
with  the  gravy  that  comes  from  the  pig.  Then 
take  it  up,  and,  without  withdrawing  the  spit,  cut 
it  down  the  back  and  belly  ;  lay  it  in  the  dish,  and 
chop  the  sage  and  bread  quickly,   as  fine  as  you 


MEATS.  59 

can,  and  mix  with  a  large  quantity  of  line  melted 
butter,  which  has  very  little  flour.  Put  the  sauce 
into  the  dish  after  the  pig  has  been  split  down  the 
back,  and  garnished  v^ath  the  two  ears,  and  the  two 
jaws  ;  the  upper  part  of  the  head  being  taken  off 
down  to  the  snout. 

In  Devon,  it  is  served  whole  if  very  small ;  the 
head  only  being  cut  off. 

Pettitoes, 

Boil  them,  and  the  liver  and  heart,  in  a  small 
quantity  of  water  very  gently  ;  then  cut  the  meat 
fine,  and  simmer  it  v;rith  a  little  of  the  water  and 
the  feet  split,  till  the  latter  be  quite  tender.  Thick- 
en with  a  bit  of  butter,  a  little  flour,  a  spoonful  of 
cream,  a  little  salt,  and  pepper :  give  a  boii  up, 
and  pour  over  a  few  sippets  of  bread,  and  put  the 
feet  on  the  mince. 

Porker's  Head  roasted. 

Choose  a  fine  young  head,  clean  it  well,  and  put 
bread  and  sage  as  for  pig  :  sew  it  up  tight,  and  put 
it  on  a  string  or  hanging  jack.  Roast  it  as  a  pig, 
and  serve  with  the  same  sauce. 

Pi^s  Cheek  for  bo'tling. 

Cut  off  the  snout,  and  clean  the  head  :  divide  it? 
take  out  the  eyes  and  the  brains,  and  sprinkHng  tht 
head  with  salt,  let  it  drain  twenty  four  hours.  Salt 
it  with  common  salt  and  saltpetre.  Let  it  lie  eight  or 
ten  days,  if  to  be  dressed  without  stewing  with  peas ; 
but  less,  if  to  be  dressed  vvith  peas  ;  and  it  must  be  ? 
washed  first,  and  then  simmered  till  all  is  tender. 


60  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

Collared  Head. 

Scour  the  head  and  ears  nicely  :  take  off  the  hair 
and  snout,  and  take  out  the  eyes  and  the  brain  : 
lay  it  in  water  one  night  ;  then  drain  and  salt  it 
extremely  well  with  common  salt  and  saltpetre,  and 
let  it  lie  five  days.  Boil  it  enough  to  remove  the 
bones,  then  lay  it  on  a  dresser,  turning  the  thick 
end  of  one  side  of  the  head  towards  the  thin  end  of 
the  other,  to  make  the  roll  of  equal  size,  sprinkle  it 
well  with  salt  and  white  pepper,  and  roll  it  with  the 
ears  ;  and  if  you  approve,  put  the  pig's  feet  round 
the  outside  when  boned ;  or  the  thin  parts  of  two 
CO  wheels.  Bind  it  in  a  cloth  and  with  a  broad  tape, 
and  boil  it  till  quite  tender  ;  then  put  a  good  weight 
upon  it,  and  do  not  remove  the  covering  till  cold. 

If  you  choose  it  to  be  more  like  brawn,  salt  it 
longer,  and  let  the  proportion  of  saltpetre  be  greater, 
putting  in  some  pieces  of  lean  pork,  and  then  cover 
it  with  cowheel,  to  look  like  the  horn. 

This  may  be  kept  in  or  out  of  pickle  of  salt, 
and  water  boiled,  with  vinegar  ;  and  is  a  very  con- 
venient thing  to  have  in  the  house. 

If  likely  to  spoil,  slice  and  fry  it  with  or  without 
butter. 

To  roast  a  Leg  of  Porh. 

Choose  a  small  leg  of  fine  young  pork,  cut  a  slit 
in  the  knuckle  v/ith  a  sharp  knife,  and  fill  the  space 
with  sage  and  onion,  chopped,  and  a  little  pepper 
and  salt.  When  half  dope,  score  the  skin  in  slices, 
but  do  not  cut  deeper  tlian  the  outer  rind. 


MEATS.  61 

Apple  sauce  and  potatoes  siioiild  be  served  t« 
eat  with  it. 

To  boil  a  Leg  of  Porh. 

Salt  it  eight  or  ten  days  ;  when  to  be  dressed, 
weigh  it  ;  let  it  lie  half  an  hour  in  cold  water  to 
make  it  white  ;  allow  a  quarter  of  an  hour  for  ever)' 
pound,  and  half  an  hour  over  from  the  time  it  boils 
up  ;  skim  it  as  soon  as  it  boils,  and  frequently  after. 
Allow  water  enough.  Save  some  of  it  to  make 
pease  soup.  Some  boil  in  a  very  nice  cloth,  floured, 
which  gives  a  very  delicate  look. 

Serve  pease  pudding  and  turnips. 

Different  ways  of  dressing  Pig's  Feet  and  Ears. 
.  Clean  them  carefully,  and  soak  them  some  hours  : 
boil  them  tender,  then  take  them  out ;  and  with 
some  of  the  water  boil  "some  vinegar  and  a  little 
salt,  and  when  cold  put  over  them.  When  to  be 
dressed,  dry  them,  divide  the  feet  in  two,  and  slice 
the  ears  ;  fry  and  serve  them  with  butter,  mustard, 
and  vinegar.  They  may  be  done  in  butter  or  only 
floured. 

Feet  and  Ears  Fricasseed. 

Put  no  \'inegar  in  the  pickle,  if  to  be  dressed 
with  cream.  Cut  the  feet  and  ears  into  neat  bits, 
and  boil  them  in  a  little  milk  ;  then  pour  that  from 
them,  and  simmer  in  a  httle  veal  broth,  with  a  bit 
of  onion,  mace  and  lemonpeel.  Before  you  serve, 
add  a  little  cream,  flour,  butter,  and  salt. 
Jelly  of  Feet  and  Ears. 

Clean  and  prepare  as  in  the  foregoing  receipt  ; 


m 


62  DOMESTIC  COOKERY, 

then  boil  in  a  very  small  quantity  of  water  mitii 
every  bone  can  be  taken  out  ;  throw  in  half  a  hand* 
ful  of  chopped  sage,  the  same  of  parsley,  a  season- 
ing of  pepper,  salt,  and  mace,  in  fine  powder  ;  sim- 
mer till  the  herbs  are  scalded,  then  pour  the  whole 
into  a  melon  form. 

Pork  Steaks. 

Cut  them  from  a  loin  or  neck,  of  middling  thick- 
ness :  pepper  and  broil  them,  turning  often.  Whes 
nearly  done,  put  the  salt  necessary,  rub  a  bit  of 
butter  over,  and  serve  the  moment  they  are  taken 
off  the  fire  ;  a  few  at  a  time. 

To  cure  Hams,     First  luay. 

Hang  them  a  day  or  two  ;  then  sprinkle  with  a 
iittle  salt,  and  drain  them  another  day.  Pound  an 
ipunce  and  a  half  of  saltpetre,  ditto  petresalt,  half  an 
punce  of  sal  prunel,  and  a  pound  of  the  coarsest 
$ugar  :  mix  these  well,  and  rub  into  e^ch  ham  ey- 
ery  day  for  four  days,  and  turn  it.  If  a  small  one, 
turn  it  every  day  for  three  weeks  :  if  a  large  one, 
a  week  longer  ;  but  do  not  rub  after  four  days. 
Before  you  dry  it,  drain  and  cover  with  bran. 
Smoke  it  ten  days. 

Another  way.     Second  ivay. 

Choose  a  leg  of  a  hog  that  is  fat  and  well  fed  : 
hang  as  above.  To  it,  if  large,  put,  in  fine  pow? 
der,  one  pound  of  bay  salt,  four  ounces  saltpetre, 
one  pound  of  the  coarsest  sugar,  and  one  handfid  of 
common  salt,  and  rub  it  thoroughly.  Lay  the  rind 
downwards,  and  cover  the  fleshy  part  with  the  salts. 


MEAT5.  63 

Baste  it  as  often  as  you  can  with  the  pickle  ;  the 
more  the  better.  Keep  it  four  weeks  in  the  pickle, 
turning  it  daily.  Drain  and  throw  bran  over  it  ; 
then  hang  it  in  a  chimney  where  wood  is  burnt,  and 
turn  it  sometimes  for  ten  days. 

Another  tvay.      Third  -way. 

Hang  the  ham  and  sprinkle  with  salt  as  above, 
then  rub  it  daily  with  the  following  in  fine  powder  : 
half  a  pound  of  salt,  ditto  bay  salt,  two  ounces  of 
saltpetre,  and  two  ounces  of  black  pepper,  mixed 
with  a  pound  and  a  half  of  treacle.  Turn  it  twice 
a  day  in  the  pickle,  for  three  weeks.  Lay  it  in  a 
pail  of  water  for  one  night,  wipe  it  quite  dry,  and 
smoke  it  two  or  three  weeks. 
Another  rray  that  gives  a  high  fiavcur.    Fourth  ivay» 

When  the  weather  will  permit,  hang  the  ham 
three  days  :  mix  an  ounce  of  saltpetre  with  one 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  bay  salt,  ditto  common  salt, 
ditto  of  coarsest  sugar,  and  a  quart  of  strong  beer  ; 
boil  them  together,  and  pour  over  immediately  on 
the  ham  ;  turn  it  twice  a  day  in  the  pickle  for  three 
weeks.  An  ounce  of  black  pepper,  ditto  of  pi- 
mento, in  finest  powder,  added  to  the  above,  will 
give  still  more  flavour.  Cover  with  bran  when 
wiped,  and  smoke  from  three  to  four  weeks,  as  you 
approve  ;  the  latter  will  make  it  harder,  and  more 
of  the  flavour  of  Westphalia.  Sew  hams  in  hessings, 
i.  e.  coarse  wrapper,  if  to  be  smoked  where  there  is 
strong  fire. 

H  2 


>4  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

ji  method  of  giving  a  still  higher  Jlavcur . 

Sprinkle  the  ham  with  salt  after  it  has  hung  two 
or  three  days  :  let  drain  ;  make  a  pickle  of  a  quart 
of  strong  beer,  half  a  pound  of  treacle,  an  ounce  of 
oonander  seeds,  two  ounces  of  juniperberries,  ?m 
ounce  of  pepper,  ditto  pimento,  an  ounce  of  saltpe- 
Ue,  half  an  ounce  of  sal  prunel,  a  handful  of  com- 
mon salt,  and  a  head  of  shalot,  all  pounded  or  cut 
fine.  Boil  these  together  a  few  minutes,  and  pour 
over  the  ham  :  this  quantity  for  one  of  ten  pounds. 
Rub  and  turn  it  every  day,  for  a  fortnight ;  then 
sew  it  up  in  a  thin  linen  bag,  and  smoke  it  three 
weeks.  Observe  to  drain  it  from  the  pickle,  and 
rub  it  in  bran  previous  to  drying. 

Hogs'  Cheeks  to  dry. 

The  snout  being  cut  off,  the  brains  removed,  and 
the  head  cleft,  but  not  cut  apart  on  the  upper  side, 
rub  it  well  with  salt.  Next  day  remove  the  brine, 
and  salt  it  again  ;  the  following  day  cover  the  head 
with  half  an  ounce  of  saltpetre,  two  ounces  of  bay 
salt,  a  little  common,  and  four  ounces  of  coarsest 
sugar.  Let  the  head  be  often  turned.  In  twelve 
days  smoke  for  a  week  Hke  bacon. 
To  dress  Hams, 

If  long  hung,  put  the  ham  into  water  a  night,  and 
either  dig  a  hole  in  the  earth,  or  let  it  lie  on  damp 
stones,  sprinkled  with  water  to  mellow,  two  or  three 
days,  covering  it  with  a  heavy  tub,  to  keep  vermin 
from  it.  Wash  it  well,  and  put  it  into  a  boiler  with 
plenty  of  water.     Let  it  simmer  four,  five,  or  six 


MEATS.  65 

hours,  according  to  the  size.  When  sufficiently 
done,  if  before  the  time  of  serving,  cover  it  with  a 
clean  cloth  doubled,  and  keep  the  dish  hot  over 
boiling  water.  Remove  the  skin,  and  strew  raspings 
over  the  ham.  Garnish  with  carrot.  Preserve  the 
skin  as  whole  as  possible,  to  keep  over  the  ham 
when  cold,  which  will  prevent  its  drying. 

The  manner  of  curing  Wiltshire  Bacon, 

Sprinkle  each  flitch  with  salt,  and  let  the  blood 
drain  off  for  twenty  four  hoiirs  ;  then  mix  one 
pound  and  a  half  of  coarse  sugar,  ditto  of  bay  salt, 
not  quite  so  much  as  half  a  pound  of  saltpetre,  and 
Si  pound  of  com.mon  salt,  and  rub  it  well  on  the 
bacon,  turning  it  every  day  for  a  month  j  then 
hang  it  to  dry,  and  afterwards  smoke  it  ten  days. 
The  above  salts  are  for  the  ^vhole  hog. 
To  pickle  Pork. 

The  quantities  proportioned  to  the  middlings  of  a 
pretty  large  hog  ;  the  hams  and  shoulders  being  cut 
off ;  mix  and  pound  fine  four  ounces  of  saltpetre,  one 
pound  of  coarse  sugar,  one  ounce  of  sal  prunel,  and 
a  little  common  salt.  Having  sprinkled  the  pork 
with  salt,  and  drained  it  twenty  four  hours,  rub  it  with 
the  above,  and  then  pack  the  pieces  tight  in  a  small 
dsep  tub,  filling  up  the  spaces  with  common  salt. 
Place  large  pebbles  on  the  pork,  to  prevent  its 
swimming  in  the  pickle  which  the  salt  will  produce. 
Sausages. 

Chop  fat  and  lean  of  pork  :  season  with  sage, 
pepper,  and  salt ;  and  you  may  add  two  or  three 


66  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

pimentos.  Half  Jill  hog*  s  guts,  that  have  been  soak- 
ed and  made  extremely  clean  :  or  the  meat  may  be 
kept  in  a  very  small  pan,  closely  covered ;  and  so 
rolled  and  dusted  with  a  very  little  flour  before  they 
are  fried. 

j^n  excellent  Sausage  to  eat  cold. 

Season  fat  and  lean  pork  with  some  salt,  saltpe- 
tre, black  and  Jamaica  pepper,  all  in  finest  powder, 
and  well  rubbed  into  the  meat.  The  sixth  day 
cut  it  small,  and  mix  with  it  some  shred  shalot,  or 
garlick,  as  fine  as  possible.  Have  ready  an  ox  gut 
that  has  been  scoured,  salted,  and  soaked  well,  and 
fill  it  with  the  above  stuffing  ;  tie  up  the  ends,  and 
hang  it  to  smoke  as  you  would  hams  ;  but  first 
wrap  it  in  a  fold  or  two  of  old  muslin.  It  must  be 
high  dried.  Some  eat  it  without  boiling,  others 
like  it  boiled  first.  The  skin  should  be  tied  in 
different  places,  making  each  link  about  eight  or 
nine  inches  long. 

Spadhury*s  Oxford  Sausages., 

Chop  a  pound  and  a  half  of  pork,  and  the  same 
of  veal,  cleared  of  skins  and  sinews.  Add  three 
quarters  of  a  pound  of  beef  suet,  mince  and  mix 
them.  Steep  the  crumbs  of  a  penny  loaf  in  water, 
and  with  a  little  dried  sage,  pepper,  and  salt,  mix 
with  the  meat. 

Black   Puddings, 

The  blood  must  be  stirred  with  salt  till  cold.  Put 
a  quart  of  it,  or  rather  more,  to  a  quart  of  old 
grits,  to  soak  one  night ;  and  soak  the  crumbs  of  a 


MEATS.  6-7 

quartern  loaf  in  rather  more  than  two  quarts  of 
new  milk,  made  hot.  In  the  mean  time  prepare 
the  guts,  by  washing  and  scraping  with  salt  and 
water,  and  changing  the  water  several  times. 
Chop  fine  a  little  winter  savory  and  thyme,  a  great 
deal  of  pennyroyal,  pepper,  salt,  a  few  cloves,  all- 
spice, ginger,  and  nutmeg.  Mis  these  with  three 
pound?  of  beefsuet,  and  six  eggo  well  beaten  and 
jstrained,  and  then  beat  the  bread,  grits,  &c.  all  up 
with  the  seasoning.  When  well  mixed,  have  ready 
some  hogsfat  cut  in  large  bits,  and  as  you  fill  the 
skins  put  it  in  at  proper  distances.  Tie  them  in 
links,  having  only  half  filled  them,  and  boil  them  in 
a  large  kettle,  pricking  them  as  they  swell,  or  they 
will  burst.  When  boiled,  lay  them  between  clean 
.cloths  till  cold,  and  hang  them  up  in  the  kitchen. 
When  to  be  used,  scald  them  a  few  minutes  in 
water,  wipe  and  put  them  in  a  Dutch  oven. 

If  there  are  not  sufficient  skins,  put  the  stuffing 
in  basons,  and  boil,  covered  with  floured  cloths  ; 
and  slice  and  fry  it  when  used. 

Black  Puddings  another  nvay. 

Soak  a  quart  of  bruised  grits  in  two  quarts  of 
hot  milk,  or  less,  if  sufficient  to  swell  them.  Chop  a 
good  quantity  of  pennyroyal,  some  savory  and 
thyme  ;  salt,  pepper,  and  Jamaica  pepper,  finely 
powdered.  Mix  the  above  with  a  quart  of  the 
blood,  prepared  as  before  :  then  half  fill  the  skins, 
after  they  have  been  cleaned  most  thoroughly,  and 
put  as  much  of  the  leaf,  i.  e.  fat  of  the  pig,  as  shall 
make  it  pretty  rich.     Boil  as  before  directed. 


68  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

White  Hogs*  Puddings. 

When  the  skins  have  been  soaked  and  cleaned  as 
before  directed,  rinse  and  soak  them  all  night  in 
rosewater,  and  put  into  them  the  following  filling  ; 
mix  half  a  pound  of  blanched  almonds,  cut  in  seven 
or  eight  bits,  w^ith  one  pound  of  grated  bread,  two 
pounds  of  marrow  or  suet,  one  pound  of  currants, 
some  beaten  cinnamon,  cloves,  mace,  and  nutmeg, 
a  quart  of  cream,  yelks  of  six,  and  w^hites  of  two 
eggs,  a  little  orange  flour  water,  a  little  fine  Lisbon 
sugar,  some  lemonpeel,  and  citron  sliced,  and  half 
fill  the  skins.  Boil  as  before  directed. 
Hogs*  Lard 

Should  be  carefully  melted  in  a  jar,  put  into  a 
kettle  of  water,  and  boiled  and  run  into  bladders 
that  have  been  extremely  well  cleaned.  The  small- 
er they  are,  the  better  the  lard  keeps  ;  as  after  the 
air  reaches  it,  it  becomes  rank.  Put  in  a  sprig  of 
rosemary  when  melted. 

This  being  a  most  useful  article  for  frying  fish,  it 
should  be  prepared  with  care.  Mixed  with  butter 
it  makes  fine  crust. 

Pig's  HarsJeU 

Wash  and  dry  some  liver,  sweetbreads,  and  fat 
and  lean  bits  of  pork  ;  beating  the  latter  vdth  a 
rolling  pin  to  make  it  tender.  Season  with  pep- 
per, salt,  sage,  and  a  little  onion,  shred  fine.-  Put  all 
when  mixed  into  a  cawl,  and  fasten  it  up  tight  with 
a  needle  and  thread.  Roast  it  on  a  hanging  jack,  or 
i)y-  a  string.  Or  serve  in  slices  with  parsley  for  a  fr)^ 


MEATS.  C9 

Serve  with  a  sauce  of  port  and  water,  and  mus- 
tard just  boiled  up,  and  put  into  the  dish. 
Loins  and  Necks  of  Pork,  roast. 

Shoulders  and  breasts  put  into  pickle,  or  salt  the 
former  as  a  leg. 

Rolled  Neck. 

Bone  it.  Put  a  forcemeat  of  chopped  sage,  a 
very  few  crumbs  of  bread,  salt,  pepper,  and  two  or 
three  pimentos  over  the  inside  :  then  roll  the  meat 
as  tight  as  you  can,  and  roast  it  slowly,  and  at  a 
good  distance  at  first. 
To  make  a  Pickle  for  Hams,  Tongues,  or  Beef,  if  boiled 

and  skimmed  betiueen  each  parcel  of  them,  that  ivili 

keep  for  years. 

To  two  gallons  of  spring  water  put  two  pounds 
of  coarse  sugar,  two  pounds  of  bay,  and  two  and  a 
half  pounds  of  common  salt,  and  half  a  pound  of 
saltpetre,  in  a  deep  earthen  glazed  pan,  that  will 
hold  four  gallons,  and  has  a  cover  that  will  fit  close- 
Keep  the  beef  or  hams  as  long  as  they  will  bear, 
before  you  put  them  into  the  pickle,  and  sprinkle 
them  with  coarse  sugar  in  a  pan,  from  which  they 
must  drain.  Rub  the  hams,  &c.  w^ell  with  the 
pickle,  and  pack  them  in  close,  putting  as  much 
as  the  pan  will  hold,  so  that  the  pickle  may  cover 
them.  The  pickle  is  rot  to  be  boiled  at  first. 
A  small  ham  may  lie  fourteen  days,  a  large  one 
three  w'eeks  ;  a  tongue  twelve  days  ;  beef  in  pro- 
portion to  its  size.  They  will  eat  well  out  of  the 
pickle  without  drying.     When  to  be  dried,  let  each 


70  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

piece  be  drained  over  the  pan,  and  when  it  will  drop 
no  longer,  take  a  clean  sponge  and  dry  it  thorough* 
ly.  Six  or  eight  hours  will  smoke  them  ;  and 
there  should  be  only  a  little  sawdust  and  wet  straw 
burnt  to  smoke  them  ;  but  if  put  into  a  baker'^ 
chimney,  sew  them  in  coarse  cloth,  and  hang 
them  a  week. 

Excellent  Bacon. 

When  the  hog  is  divided,  if  a  large  one,  the 
chine  should  be  cut  out.  The  bacon  will  be  pre- 
served from  being  rusty,  if  the  spareribs  are  left  in. 
Salt  the  bacon  six  days  ;  then  drain  it  from  the 
first  pickle.  Mix  as  much  salt  as  you  judge  prop- 
er with  eight  ounces  of  bay  salt,  four  ounces  of 
saltpetre,  and  one  pound  of  coarse  sugar,  to  each 
hog,  the  hams  being  first  cut  off.  Rub  the  salts 
well  in,  and  turn  it  every  day  for  a  month.  Drain, 
and  smoke  a  few  days  ;  or  dry  without,  by  hanging 
in  the  kitchen,  not  near  the  fire. 

Mutton.     The  Haunch. 

Keep  as  long  as  it  can  be  preserved  sweet,  by  the 
different  modes  of  keeping.  Let  it  be  washed  with 
warm  milk  and  water,  or  vinegar,  if  necessary  ;  but 
soak  off  the  flavour  from  keeping.  Put  a  coarse 
paste  on  strong  paper,  and  fold  the  haunch  in  :  set 
it  at  a  great  distance  from  the  fire,  and  allow  pro- 
portionable time  for  the  paste,  which  do  not  remove 
till  about  thirty  five  or  forty  minutes  before  serving  ; 
then  baste  it  perpetually.  You  will  have  brought 
the  haunch  nearer  to  the  fire  before  you  take  off  the 
paste,  and  must  frsth  it  up  as  you  would  venison. 


MEATS.  n 

A  gfavy  must  be  made  of  a  pound  and  a  half  of 
loin  of  old  mutton,  simmered  in  a  pint  of  water  to 
half,  and  no  seasoning  but  salt.  Brown  it  with  a 
little  burnt  sugar,  and  send  it  up  in  the  dish  :  but 
there  should  be  much  gravy  in  the  meat  ;  for 
though  long  at  the  fire,  the  distance  and  covering 
will  prevent  its  being  done  dry. 

Serve  v/ith  currantjelly  sauce. 

Legs  roasted,  and  onion  or  currantjelly  sauce  : 
or,  boiled,  with  caper  sauce  and  vegetables. 

Necks  are  particularly  useful,  as  so  many  dishes 
may  be  made  of  them  ;  but  they  are  not  advanta- 
geous for  the  family.  The  bones  should  be  cut 
short  ;  which  the  butchers  Vvill  not  do  unless  par- 
ticularly desired. 

Note.  When  there  is  more  fat  to  a  neck  or  loin 
of  mutton  than  is  agreeable  to  eat  with  the  lean,  it 
makes  an  uncommonly  good  suet  pudding,  or  crust 
for  a  meatpye,  being  cut  very  fine. 

The  best  end  of  the  neck  boiled,  and  served  with 
turnips  :  or  roasted  :  or  in  steaks,  in  pies,  or  harrico. 

The  scrag  stewed  in  broth,  or  with  a  small  quan- 
tity of  water,  some  small  onions,  a  few  peppercorns 
aiid  a  little  rice,  and  served  together. 
Harrico, 

Take  off  some  of  the  fat,  and  cut  the  m7ddle  or 
best  end  of  the  neck  into  rather  thin  steaks.  Put 
the  fat  into  a  fryingpan,  and,  flouring,  fiy  them  in 
it  of  a  fine  hght  brown,  but  not  enough  for  eating. 
Put  them  in  a  dish  while  you  {rv  the  carrots,  turnips, 
f 


;.-  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

and  onions  ;  the  former  in  dice,  the  latter  shced  ; 
but  they  must  only  be  warmed,  not  browned,  or  you 
need  not  fry  them.  Then  lay  the  steaks  at  the 
bottom  of  a  stewpan,  the  vegetables  over,  and  pour 
as  much  boihng  water  on  them  as  will  just  cover  : 
give  one  boil,  skim  well,  and  then  set  the  pan  on 
the  side  of  the  fire  to  simmer  gently  till  tender  :  in 
three  or  four  hours  skim,  and  add  pepper,  salt,  and 
one  spoonful  of  catsup. 

Mutton  Pie. 

Cut  steaks  from  a  loin  or  neck  of  mutton  ;  beat 
them  and  remove  some  of  the  fat.  Season  with 
salt,  pepper,  and  a  little  onion.  Put  a  little  water 
at  the  bottom  of  the  dish,  and  a  little  paste  on  the 
edge  ;  then  cover  with  a  moderately  thick  paste. 
Or  raise  small  pies,  and,  breaking  each  bone  in  two 
to  shorten  it,  season  and  cover  it  over,  pinching  the 
edge.  When  they  come  out,  pour  a  spoonful  of 
gravy,  made  of  a  bit  of  mutton,  into  each.  The 
mutton  should  have  hung. 

Mutton  and  Potatoe  Pie. 

Season  the  steaks  of  a  loin  or  neck  ;  lay  them  in 
a  dish  :  have  ready  potatoes  mashed  very  thick, 
with  some  milk,  and  a  bit  of  butter  and  salt,  and 
cover  the  meat  as  with  a  very  thick  crust,  and  to 
come  or  the  surr9unding  edge. 

Mutton  Puading. 

Season  as  above.  Lay  one  layer  of  steaks  at  the 
bottom  of  the  dish,  and  pour  a  batter  of  potatoes 
boiled  and  pressed  through  a  colander,  and  mixed 


MEATo.  73 

with  milk  and  an  egg,  over  them  :  then  putting  the 
rest  of  the  steaks,  and  batter,  bake  it. 

Batter  with  flour,  instead  of  potatoes,  eats  well, 
but  requires  more  ^ggi  and  is  not  so  good. 
Mutton  Sausages. 

Take  a  pound  of  the  rawest  part  of  a  leg  of  mut- 
ton that  has  been  either  roasted  or  boiled  :  chop  it 
extremely  small  :  season  with  pepper,  salt,  mace, 
and  nutmeg.  Add  six  ounces  of  beef  suet,  some 
sweet  herbs,  two  anchovies,  and  a  pint  of  oysters, 
all  chopped  ver}^  small  ;  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
grated  bread,  some  of  the  ancho\'y  liquor,  and  all 
that  came  from  the  oysters  ;  the  yelks  and  whites 
of  two  eggs  well  beaten.  Put  it  all,  when  well  mix- 
ed, into  a  little  pot,  and  use  it  by  roUing  it  into 
balls  or  sausage  shape,  and  fry  them.  If  approved, 
a  little  shalot  may  be  added  ;  or  garlick,  which  is  a 
great  improvement. 

Mutton  Steah 

Should  be  cut  from  a  loin  or  neck  that  has  hung. 
If  the  latter,  the  bones  should  not  be  long.  They 
should  be  broiled  on  a  clear  fire,  and  seasoned  when 
half  done,  and  frequently  turned  ;  when,  taking  into 
a  very  hot  dish,  rub  a  bit  of  butter  on  each,  and 
serve  hot  and  hot  the  moment  they  are  done.  , 

They  may  be  covered  with  forcemeat. 
Mutton  Collops. 

Cut  from  that  part  of  a  wellhungloin  of  mutton 
which  is  next  the  leg,  some  collops  very  thin. 
Take  out  the  sinews.     Season  them  with  salt,  pep- 


74  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

per  and  mace,  and  strew  over  them  shred  parsley, 
thyme,  and  two  or  three  sholots.  Fry  them  in  but- 
ter till  half  done.  Add  half  a  pint  of  gravy,  a  little 
juice  of  lemon,  and  a  piece  of  butter  rubbed  in  flour, 
and  simmer  the  whole  very  gently  five  minutes. 
They  should  be  served  immediately,  or  they  will  be 
hard. 

Lamb  Steah. 

Fry  a  beautiful  brown.  Throw  over  them,  when 
served,  a  good  quantity  of  crumbs  of  bread  fried,  and 
crimped  parsley  :  the  receipt  for  doing  which  of  a 
fine  colour,  is  given  under  the  article  of  vegetables. 

Mutton  and  Lamb  steaks,  seasoned  and  broiled 
in  buttered  papers,  either  with  crumbs  and  herbs, 
or  without,  are  a  genteel  dish,  and  eat  well. 

Sauce  for  them,  called  sauce  Robart,  under  the 
list  of  sauces. 

Saddle  or  Loin  of  mutton,  roasted  :  the  former 
a  fashionable  dish. 

Shoulder  of  mutton,  roasted,  and  onion  sauce. 
Bladebone  broiled. 

Shoulder  of  Mutton  boiled  ivith  Oysters, 

Hang  it  some  days,  then  salt  it  well  for  two. 
Bone  it,  and  sprinkle  it  with  pepper,  and  a  bit  of 
mace  pounded.  Lay  some  oysters  over  it,  and  roll 
the  meat  up  tight  with  a  fillet.  Stew  it  in  a  small 
quantity  of  water,  with  an  onion,  and  a  few  pepper- 
corns, till  quite  tender. 

Have  ready  a  little  good  gravy,  and  some  oysters 
stewed  in  it ;  thicken  with  flour  and   butter,    aud 


MEAT.  75 

pour  over  the    mutton   when  the  tape  is  removed. 
The  stewpan  should  be  kept  close  covered. 
Breast  of  Mutton. 

The  superfluous  fat  being  cut  off,  roast,  and  serve 
with  stewed  cucumbers  :  or,  to  eat  cold,  having 
covered  it  with  chopped  parsley  :  or  half  boiled, 
and  then  grilled  before  the  fire,  being  covered  with 
crumbs  and  herbs,  and  served  with  caper  sauce  : 
or  boned,  a  good  deal  of  the  fat  being  taken  off,  and 
covered  with  bread,  herbs,  and  seasonirg;  then 
rolled,  and  boiled,  and  served  with  chopped  walnut, 
or  capers  and  butter. 

Rolled  Loin  of  Mutton, 

Hang  the  mutton,  to  be  tender.  Bone  it,  and 
lay  a  seasoning  of  pepper,  pimento,  mace,  nutmeg, 
a  few  cloves,  all  in  fine  powder,  over  it.  Next  day 
prepare  a  stuffing  as  for  a  hare,  beat  the  meat,  and 
cover  it  with  the  stuffing,  roll  it  tight,  and  fillet  it. 
Half  bake  it  in  a  slow  oven  :  let  it  grow  cold  :  re- 
move the  fat,  and  put  the  gravy  into  a  stewpan  : 
flour  the  meat,  and  put  in  likewise  ;  stew  till  near 
ready,  and  add  a  glass  of  port  wine,  some  catsup, 
an  anchovy,  and  a  httle  lemon  pickle,  half  an  hour 
before  serving,  which  ^o  in  the  gravy,  and  with 
jelly  sauce.  A  few  fresh  mushrooms  are  a  great 
improvement,  but  not  if  to  eat  like  hare,  nor  add 
the  lemon  pickle. 

Rumps,  kidneys,  livers,  and  hearts,  well  washed, 
seasoned,  and  broiled,  and  served  with  cold  butter 
rubbed  on  them. 
i2 


T6  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

Steaks  of  Muttony  or  Lamb  and  Cucumbers, 

Quarter  cucumbers,  and  lay  them  in  a  deep 
dish  ;  sprinkle  them  with  salt,  and  pour  vinegar 
over.  Fry  chops  of  a  fine  brow^n,  and  put  them  in 
a  stew^pan :  drain  the  cucumbers,  and  put  over  the 
steaks  :  put  some  sliced  onions,  pepper,  and  salt  : 
pour  hot  water  or  weak  broth  on  them  :  stew  and 
skim  well. 

An  excellent  Hotch  Potch» 

Stew  peas,  lettuce,  and  onions,  in  a  very  little 
water,  with  a  beef  or  ham  bone.  While  doing,  fry 
some  mutton  or  lamb  steaks,  seasoned,  of  a  nice 
brown.  Three  quarters  of  an  hour  before  dinner 
put  the  steaks  into  a  stewpan,  and  the  vegetables 
over  :  stew  them,  and  serve  all  together  in  a  tureen. 
Another  Hotch  Potch. 

Knuckle  of  veal,  and  scrag  of  mutton,  stewed 
with  vegetables  as  above. 

Mutton  Ham, 

Choose  a  fine  grained  leg  of  wether  mutton,  of 
twelve  or  fourteen  pounds  weight.  Let  it  be  cut 
ham  shape,  and  hang  two  days  :  then  put  into  a 
stewpan  half  a  pound  of  bay  salt,  the  same  of  com- 
mon salt,  two  ounces  of  saltpetre,  half  a  pound  of 
coarsest  sugar,  all  in  powder  :  mix  and  make  it 
quite  hot ;  then  rub  it  well  into  the  ham,  let  it  be 
turned  in  the  liquor  daily.  At  the  end  of  four 
days  put  two  ounces  more  of  common  salt  :  in 
twelve  days  take  it  out ;  dry,  and  hang  it  up  in 
the  wood  smoke  a  week. 


MEATS.  77 

Mutton  Cutlets  in  the  Portuguese  ivay. 

Cut  the  chops,  and  half  fry  them,  with  sliced  sha- 
lot,  or  onion,  chopped  parsley,  and  two  bayleaves  ; 
seasoned  with  pepper  and  salt.  Then  lay  a  forcemeat 
on  a  piece  of  white  paper,  put  the  chop  on  it,  cover 
with  forcemeat,  and  twist  the  paper  up, leaving  a  hole 
for  the  end  of  the  bones  to  go  through.  Broil  on  a 
gentle  fire.  Serve  with  sauce  Robart  ;  or,  as  the 
seasoning  makes  the  cutlets  high,  a  little  gravy. 
Lamb. 

Leg  boiled  in  a  cloth  to  look  as  white  as  possi- 
ble :  the  loin  fried  in  steaks  and  served  round,  gar- 
nished  with    dried   or    fried   parsley.      Spinach  t*j 
eat  with  it.     Or  dressed  separately,  or  roasted. 
LamVs  Head  and  Hinge. 

That  of  a  house  lamb  is  best,  but  either,  if  soak- 
ed in  cold  water,  will  be  white.  Boil  the  head  sep- 
.irately  till  very  tender,  and  have  ready  the  liver  and 
lights  cut  small.  After  being  three  parts  boiled, 
stew  them  in  a  little  of  the  water  in  which  they 
ivere  boiled.  Season,  and  thicken  with  flour  and 
butter,  and  serve  the  mince  round  the  head. 
Fore  Qtiarter  of  Lamb. 

Roasted  whole,  or  separately.      If  left  to  be  cold, 
chopped  parsley  should  be  sprinkled  over  it. 
L-amFs  Fry. 

Serve  it  fried  a  beautiful  colour,  and  a  good  deal 
of  dried  or  fried  parsley  over  it. 
Turkey  to  Boil. 

Make  a  stuffing  of  bread,  herbs,  salt,  pepper,  nut- 


78  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

meg,  lemonpeel,  a  few  oysters  or  an  anchovy,  a  bit 
of  butter,  some  suet,  and  an  egg.  Put  this  in  the 
crop,  and  fasten  up  the  skin,  and  boil  the  turkey  in 
a  floured  cloth,  to  make  it  very  w^hite.  Have  ready 
a  fine  oyster  sauce,  made  rich  with  butter,  a  little 
cream,  a  spoonful  of  soy,  if  approved,  and  pour  over 
the  bird.  Or,  liver  and  lemon  sauce. — Hen  birds 
are  best  for  boiling,  and  should  be  youpg. 
Turhey  to  Roast. 

The  sinews  of  the  leg  should  be  drav;n,  which- 
ever way  it  be  dressed.  The  head  should  be  twist- 
ed under  the  wing  ;  and  in  drawing,  care  should 
be  taken  not  to  tear  the  liver,  or  let  the  gall  touch 
■t.  Put  a  stuffing  of  sausage  meat :  or,  if  sausages 
ire  to  be  served  in  the  dish,  a  bread  stuffing.  As 
his  makes  a  large  addition  to  the  size  of  the  bird, 
observe  that  the  heat  of  the  lire  be  constantly  to 
•hat  part  ;  for  the  breast  is  frequently  not  enough 
done.  A  little  strip  of  paper  should  be  put  on  the 
bone  to  prevent  scorching,  while  the  other  parts 
roast.  Baste  well,  and  froth  it  up.  Gravy  in  the 
dish,  and  plenty  of  bread  sauce  in  a  saucetureen. 
Pulled  Turkey* 

Divide  the  meat  of  tlie  breast  by  pulHng  instead 
.ifcutl-ing  ;  then  warm  it  in  a  spoonful  or  two  of 
wliite  gravy,  a  little  cream,  grated  nutmeg,  salt, 
and  a  little  flour  and  butter  :  warm,  but  do  not  boil 
1..  The  leg  seasoned,  scored,  and  broiled,  put  in 
ihe  dish,  with  ^lic  above  round  it.  Cold  chicken 
does  as  well. 


MEATS.  79 

Turkey  Patties, 

Mince  some  of  the  white  parts,  and  with  grated 
lemon,  nutmeg,  salt,  a  very  little  white  pepper, 
cream,  and  a  very  little  bit  of  butter  warmed.  Fill 
the  patties  ;  they  having  been  first  baked  with  a 
bit  of  bread  in  each,  to  keep  them  hollow. 
Pheasants  and  Partridges. 

Roast  as  turkey,  and  serve  with  a  fine  gravy  :  in 
which  put  the  smallest  bit  of  garlick,  and  bread 
sauce.  When  cold,  they  may  be  made  into  excel- 
lent  patties,  but  their  flavour  should  not  be  over- 
powered by  lemon. 

Potted  Partridge. 

When  nicely  cleaned,  season  with  the  following, 
in  finest  powder  ;  mace,  Jamaica  pepper,  white  pep- 
per, and  salt.  Rub  every  part  well  ;  then  lay  the 
breasts  downwards  in  a  pan,  and  pack  the  birds  as 
close  as  you  possibly  can.  Put  a  good  deal  of 
butter  on  them  ;  then  cover  the  pan  with  a  coarse 
flour  paste,  and  a  paper  over :  tie  close  and  bake. 
When  cold,  put  into  pots  and  cover  with  butter. 
A  very  economical  ivay  of  Potting  Birds. 

Prepare  as  before.  When  baked,  and  become 
cold,  cut  them  in  proper  pieces  for  helping,  and 
pack  them  close  into  a  large  potting  pot,  and  leave, 
if  possible,  no  spaces  to  receive  the  butter  ;  with 
which,  cover  them,  and  one  third  part  less  will  be 
requisite  than  when  done  whole. 

To  clarify  Butter  for  potted  things. 

Put  it  in  a  saucebo^t,  find  set  that  in  a  stewpan 


so  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

that  has    a  Httle  water   in,  over  the  fire.     When 
melted,  observe  not  to  pour  the  milky  parts  over 
the  potted  things,  they  will  sink  to  the  bottom. 
Fowls. 

Boiled,  with  oyster,  lemon,  parsley,  and  butter, 
or  liver  sauces  ;  or  with  bacon  and  greens. 
Ditto  roasted. 

Egg  sauce,  bread  sauce,  or  garnished  with  sausa- 
ges, scalded,  and  parsley. 

A  large  barndoor  fowl  well  hung,  stuffed  in  the 
crop  with  sausage  meat,  and  gravy  in  the  dish,  and 
with  bread  sauce. 

The  head  should  be  turned  under  the  wnng. 

Fowl  split  down  the  back,  peppered,  salted,  and 
broiled.     Serve  it  with  mushroom  sauce. 
To  boil  Foaul  with  Rice. 

Stew  the  fowl  very  slowly,  in  some  clear  mutton- 
broth,  well  skimmed,  and  seasoned  with  onion, 
mace,  pepper,  and  salt.  About  half  an  hour  before 
it  be  ready,  put  in  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  rice,  well 
washed  and  soaked.  Simmer  till  tender ;  then 
strain  from  the  broth,  and  put  the  rice  on  a  sieve 
before  the  fire.  Keep  the  fowl  hot  ;  lay  it  in  the 
middle  of  the  dish,  and  the  rice  round  it,  without 
the  l/rot/}  ;  which  vi'ill  be  very  nice  to  eat  as  such  ; 
but  the  less  liquor  it  is  done  with  the  better. 
Fricassee  of  Chickens. 

Boil  them  rather  more  than  half  in  a  small  quan- 
tity of  water  :  let  them  cool  ;  then  cut  them  up, 
and  put  them  to  simmer  in  a  little  gravy,  made  of 


iVIEATS.  81 

the  liquor  they  were  boiled  in,  and  a  bit  of  veal  or 
mutton,  onion,  mace,  lemonpeel,  white  pepper,  and 
a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs.  When  quite  tender,  keep 
them  hot  while  you  thicken  the  sauce  thus  :  strain 
off,  and  put  it  back  into  the  saucepan,  with  a  little 
salt,  a  scrape  of  nutmeg,  a  bit  of  flour  and  butter  : 
give  it  one  boil  ;  and  when  you  are  going  to  serve, 
beat  up  the  yelk  of  an  egg,  add  half  a  pint  of  cream, 
and  stir  them  over  the  fire,  but  do  not  let  it  boil. 
It  will  be  equally  good  without  the  egg, 

j4nother  <white  Sauce,  mere  easily  made* 

Take  a  little  of  the  water  that  boiled  the  fowls, 
(which  must  be  kept  hot)  and  stew  with  it  some 
cut  onion,  a  bit  of  parsley,  a  blade  of  mace,  and  a 
bit  of  lemonpeel.  Mix  with  this  a  bit  of  butter, 
flour,  and  little  thick  cream,  and  adding  the  chick- 
en, warm  it  with  the  sauce. 

The  above  for  veal  or  rabbit  ;  but  if  either  are 
not  sufficiently  done  before,  then  the  cream  and 
llour  should  be  added  just  before  serving,  after  the 
meat  is  a  little  stewed. 

Davenport  Foivls. 

Hang  young  fowls  a  night :  take  the  livers, 
hearts,  and  tenderest  parts  of  the  gizzards,  shred 
very  small,  with  half  a  handful  of  young  clary,  an 
anchovy  to  each  fowl,  one  onion,  and  the  yelks  oi 
four  eggs,  boiled  hard,  with  pepper,  salt,  and  mace 
to  your  taste.  Stuff  the  fowls  with  this,  and  sew  up 
the  vents  and  necks  quite  close,  that  the  water  may 
not  get  in.     Boil  them  in  salt  and  water  till  nctw 


«2  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

done  ;  then  drain,  and  put  them  into  a  stewpan, 
with  butter  enough  to  brown  them.  Then  serve 
with  fine  melted  butter,  and  a  spoonful  of  catsup, 
of  either  sort,  in  the  dish. 

To  pull  Chicken, 

Take  off  the  skin,  and  pull  the  flesh  off  the  bones 
of  a  cold  fowl,  in  as  large  pieces  as  you  can. 
Dredge  with  flour,  and  fry  of  a  nice  brown  in  but- 
ter :  which  drain  from  it,  and  simmer  in  a  good 
gravy,  well  seasoned,  and  thickened  with  a  little 
flour  and  butter.  Add  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon. 
Chicken  Pie, 

Cut  up  two  young  fowls  :  season  with  white 
pepper,  salt,  a  little  mace,  and  nutmeg,  all  in  the 
finest  powder  ;  likewise  a  httle  Cayenne.  Put  the 
cliicken,  slices  of  ham  or  gammon,  forcemeat,  and 
hard  eggs,  alternately.  If  to  be  in  a  dish,  put  a 
little  water  ;  if  in  a  raised  crust,  none.  Against 
the  pie  be  baked,  have  ready  a  gravy  of  knuckle  of 
veal,  with  a  few  shank  bones,  seasoned  with  herbs, 
onion,  mace,  and  pepper.  If  in  a  dish,  put  in  as 
much  gravy  as  will  fill  it  :  if  in  crust,  let  it  go  cold  ; 
then  open  the  lid,  and  put  in  the  jelly. 

The  Forcemeat  for  Pies  of  Fonvls  of  any  kind. 

Pound  fine,  cold  chicken,  or  veal,  a  bit  of  fat  ba- 
con, some  grated  ham,  crumbs  of  bread,  a  very 
little  bit  of  onion,  parsley,  knotted  marjorum,  and 
a  very  small  bit  of  tarragon,  chopped  fine  ;  a  blade 
of  mace,  a  little  nutmeg,  white  pepper,  and  salt,  in 
finest  powder.  When  well  mixed,  add  eggs  tQ 
make  into  balls. 


POULTRY.  85 

Chicken  Curry, 

Cut  up  the  chickens  before  they  are  dressed, 
and  fry  them  in  butter,  with  sliced  onions,  till  of  a 
fine  colour  :  or  if  you  use  those  that  have  been 
dressed,  do  not  fry  them  :  lay  the  joints,  cut  in  two 
or  three  pieces  each,  into  a  stewpan,  with  veal  or 
mutton  gravy,  a  clove  or  two  of  giiriick,  four  large 
spoonfuls  of  cream,  and  some  Cayenne  :  rub 
smooth  one  or  two  spoonfuls  of  curry  powder,  with 
a  httle  flour,  and  a  bit  of  butter,  and  add  twenty 
minutes  before  you  serve  ;  ste\\'ing  it  on  till  ready. 
A  little  juice  of  lemon  should  be  squeezed  in  when 
serving. 

Slices  of  rare  done  veal,  rabbit,  or  turkey,  make 
a  good  curry. 

A  dish  of  rice  boiled  plain,  as  hereafter  directed, 
must  be  always  served  to  eat  with  curry. 

Another  Curry,  and  more  quickly  made. 

Cut  up  a  chicken  or  young  rabbit  ;  if  the  former, 
take  oif  the  skin,  and  rub  each  piece  in  a  large 
spoonful  of  flour,  mixed  vnth  half"  an  ounce  of  cur- 
ry powder  :  slice  two  or  three  onions,  and  fry  in 
butter,  of  a  fine  light  brov;n  ;  then  add  the  meat,, 
and  fry  altogether,  until  the  latter  begin  to  brown  j 
then  put  into  a  stewpan,  and  pour  boiling  water 
over  to  cover.  Let  it  simmer  very  gently  two  or 
three  hours  until  quite  tender.  If  too  thick,  put 
more  water  half  an  hour  before  it  be  served. 

Dressed  fowl  or  meat  may  be  done  ;  but  the 
currv  will  be  better  made  of  fresh. 


«4  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

Grouse. 

Are  to  be  roasted  like  fowls  ;  but  their  heads 
twisted  under  the  wing,  and  served  with  gravy,  and 
bread  sauce,  or  with  sauce  for  wild  fowl.  See 
Sauces. 

To  pot  Grouse,  or  Moor  Game. 

Pick,  singe,  and  wash  them  very  clean  ;  then  rub 
them  inside  and  out  with  a  high  seasoning  of  salt, 
pepper,  mace,  nutmeg,  and  allspice.  Lay  them  in 
as  small  a  pot  as  will  hold  them  :  cover  them  with 
butter,  and  bake  them  in  a  slow  oven.  When  cold, 
take  off  the  butter,  move  the  birds  from  the  gravy, 
dry,  and  put  them  into  pots  that  will  just  fit  one  or 
two  ;  the  former,  where  there  are  not  many.  Melt 
the  former  butter  with  some  more,  so  as  to  com- 
pletely cover  the  birds  :  but  take  care  not  to  oil  it. 
P©  not  let  it  be  too  hot. 

To  roast  Widgeon,  Duck,  Teal,  cr  Moorhen. 

The  flavour  is  best  preserved  without  stuffing  ; 
but  put  some  pepper,  salt,  and  a  bit  of  butter  in  the 
birds.  Wild  fowl  require  to  be  much  less  done 
than  tame,  and  to  be  served  of  a  fine  colour. 

The  basting  ordered  in  the  foregoing  receipt 
takes  of  a  fishy  taste  which  wild  fowl  sometimes 
have.  Send  up  a  very  good  gravy  in  the  dish  ;  and 
on  cutting  the  breast,  half  a  lemon  squeezed  over, 
with  pepper  on  it,  improves  the  taste. 

Or  stuff  them  with  crumbs,  a  little  shred  onion, 
sage,  pepper,  and  salt,  but  not  a  large  quantity, 
and  add  a  bit  of  butter.     Slice  an  onion,  and  put  iu- 


POULTRY.  85 

to  the  dripping  pan,  with  a  little  salt,  ami  baste  the 
fowls  with  it  till  three  parts  done  ;  then  remove 
that,  and  baste  with  butter.  They  should  come 
lip  finely  frothed,  and  not  be  overdone. 

An  excellent  sauce  under  that  article. 
Duck  to  boil. 

Choose  a  fine  fat  duck,  salt  it  two  days,  then  boil  it 
slowly,  and  cover  it  with  onion  sauce  made  very  white, 
and  the  butter  melted  with  milk  instead  of  water. 

To  roast  duck  :  stuff  or  not,  and  serve  with  gravy. 
Duck  Pie. 

Bone  a  full  grown  young  duck,  and  a  fine  young 
fowl  of  a  good  size.  Season  them  both  well  with 
mace,  pepper,  salt  and  allspice.  Put  the  fowl  with- 
in the  duck,  and  a  calf's  tongue  that  has  been 
pickled  red,  and  boiled,  within/the  fowl.  Make 
the  whole  to  lie  close.  The  skin  of  t\\d  legs  and 
wings  should  be  drawn  inwards,  that  the  body  may 
lie  smooth.  Put  the  birds  into  a  raised  pie,  or 
small  piedish,  and  cover  it  with  a  thickish  paste  =  . 
Bake  in  a  slow  oven  to  eat  cold. 

The   old  Staffordshire  raised  pies  were  made  as 
above,  but  a  turkey  was  put  over  the  duck,  and  a 
goose  over  that,  forming  a  very  large  pie. 
Goose  to  roast. 

After  being  carefully  picked,  the  plugs  of  the 
feathers  pulled  out,  and  the  hairs  singed,  let  it  be 
well  washed,  dried,  and  seasoned  with  onion,  sage, 
pepper,  and  salt  ;  fasten  it  tight  at  the  neck  and 
vent,  and  roast  it. 


86  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

When  half  done,  let  a  narrow  strip  of  paper  be 
skewered  on  the  breastbone.  Baste  it  well,  and 
observe  to  take  it  up  the  moment  it  is  done,  nicely 
frothed.  AVhen  the  breast  rises,  take  off  the  paper, 
and  observe  to  serve  it  before  it  fall,  or  it  will  be 
spoiled,  and  come  to  table  flattened.  Before  it  is  cut 
up,  cut  the  apron  off,  and  pour  in  a  wineglass  of  port 
wine  and  a  teaspoonful  of  mustard.  Cut  the  breast 
from  one  pinion  to  tiie  other,  if  for  a  large  party, 
without  leaving  meat  to  the  wingbone. 

Gravy,  and  apple  sauce. 

Green  Goose  Pie, 

Bone  two  green  geese,  having  first  remoyed  every 
plug,  and  singed  them  nicely.  Wash  them  clean  ; 
season  high  with  salt,  mace,  pepper,  and  pimento  : 
put  one  within  the  other,  and  press  them  close  into 
your  piedish  ;  put  a  good  deal  of  butter  over  them, 
and  bake  with  or  without  a  crust :  if  the  latter,  a 
cover  that  will  keep  the  steam  in,  must  supply  the 
place  of  a  crust.  It  will  keep  long. 
Giblei  Pie, 

Stew  du.ck  or  goose  giblets,  when  nicely  cleaned, 
with  onion,  black  pepper,  and  a  bunch  of  sweet 
herbs,  till  tender.  Let  them  become  cold  ;  then 
put  them  in  the  dish  with  two  or  three  steaks  of 
veal,  beef,  or  mutton,  especially  if  there  are  not 
giblets  enough  to  make  the  sized  pie  that  you  wish. 
A  little  cup  of  cream,  put  in  when  baked,  is  a  great 
improvement.     Put  the  liquor  in  first- 


POULTRY.  ^ 

Stewed  Giblets. 

As  above,  and  add  a  little  butter  and  flour.    Serve 
with  sippets,  and  cream  just  scalded  in  the  sauce. 
Stetued  Pigeons. 

Let  them  be  fresh,  and  carefully  cropped,  drawn, 
and  washed,  then  let  them  soak  half  an  hour  :  in 
the  mean  time  cut  a  hard  white  cabbage  into  water 
in  slices  as  for  pickhng  ;  drain  it,  and  boil  it  in  milk 
and  water  ;  drain  it  again,  then  lay  some  of  it  at  the 
bottom  of  a  stewpan  ;  put  the  birds  on  it,  being 
well  seasoned,  and  cover  them  with  the  remainder  ; 
put  a  little  broth  into  them,  and  stew  till  quite 
tender,  before  3-ou  serve.  Add  some  cream,  and  a 
little  flour  and  butter  ;  give  it  one  boil,  and  serve 
the  cabbage  round  the  pigeons. 
Another  way. 

Stew  in  a  good  gravy,  stuffed  or  not,  and  season 
well.  Add  a  little  mushroom  catsup,  or  fresh 
mushrooms. 

To  pichle  Pigeons. 

Bone  the  pigeons,  turn  the  inside  out,  and  lard 
it  :  season  with  Jamaica  pepper  pounded  very  fine, 
and  a  little  salt :  turn  the  inside  outward  again, 
and  tie  the  neck  and  rump  with  thread  :  put  them. 
in  boiling  water,  let  them  boil  a  minute  or  two  to 
plump  ;  take  them  out,  and  dry  with  a  cloth.  The 
pickle  must  be  made  of  an  equal  quantity  of  wine, 
and  white  wine  vinegar  ;  white  pepper,  Jamaica 
pepper,  sliced  nutmeg,  ginger,  and  two  or  three 
bayieaves  boiled.     When  it  boils,  put  the  pigeons 


88  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

into  it,  and  let  them  boil  fifteen  minutes,  if  small  j 
twenty,  if  large.  Then  take  them  out,  wipe,  and 
let  them  cool.  When  the  pickle  is  cold,  take  off 
the  fat,  and  put  them  in. 

They  must  be  kept  in  a  stone  jar,  tied  down  with 
a  bladder  to  exclude  the  air.  You  may  in  some, 
instead  of  larding,  put  a  stuffing  of  hard  yelks  of 
eggs,  and  marrow,  in  equal  quantities,  spices,  and 
sweet  herbs. 

Pigeons  in  Jelly. 
Save  some  of  the  Hquor  in  which  a  knuckle  of 
veal  has  been  boiled,  as  likewise  a  calf's  foot,  or 
else  simmer  some  isinglass  in  it,  a  blade  of  mace, 
an  onion,  a  bunch  of  herbs,  some  lemonpeel,  white 
pepper,   and  salt.     When   the  pigeons  are  nicely 
cleaned  and  soaked,  put  them  in  a  pan,  and  pour 
the  liquor  over  them  ;  and  let  them  be  baked,  and 
remain  in  it  till  cold.     When  served,  put  jelly  over 
and  round  them.     Season  them  as  you  approve. 
Potted  Pigeons. 
Take  fresh  ones  :  clean  them  carefully  :  season 
with  pepper  and  salt :  put  them  close  in  a  small  pan, 
and  pour  butter  over :  ba^e,   and  when  cold  take 
them  out.     Put  into  fresh  pots,  fit  to  serve  to  table, 
tv/o  or  three  in  each,  and  pour  butter  over,  using 
that  which  was  baked  with  them  as  part.     Observe, 
that  it  is  neicessary  to  put  a  good  deal  of  butter  if 
to  be  kept. 

Note.     Butter  that  has  covered  potted  things  is 
good  for  basting,  and  ivill  make  very  good  paste 


POULTRY.  8« 

for  meatpies.     If  to  be  high,  add  some  mace,  and ' 
a  few  Jamaica  peppers  to  the  seasoning. 
Pigeon  Pie. 
Clean  as  before  :  season  ;  and,  if  approved,  put, 
some  parsley  into  the  birds,  and  a  bit  of  butter,  with 
pepper  and  salt.     Lay  a  beefsteak  at  the  bottom  of 
the  dish, and  hard  eggs  between  each  two  birds,  and  a 
little  water.    If  you  have  ham  in  the  house,  lay  a  slice 
on  each  :  it  is  a  great  improvement  to  the  flavour. 
Observe,  when  you  cut  ham  for  sauce  or  pies,  to 
turn  it,  and  take  from  the  under  side  instead  of  the 
prime. 

Broilsd  Pigeons. 
Slit  them  down  the  back  :    season,  and  broil. 
Serve  with  mushroom  sauce  ;    or  melted  butter, 
with  a  little  mushroom  catsup. 
Roast  Pigeons f 
Should  be  stuffed  with  uncut  parsley,  seasoned  ; 
and  ser\ed  with  parsley  and  butter.     Asparagus,  or 
pease,  should  be  dressed  to  eat  with  them. 
Parshy  Pie. 
Lay  veal  or  fowl  at  the  bottom  of  a  pie  dish,  sea- 
soned.   Take  a  colander  full  of  picked  parsley,  cover 
;he  meat  with  it,  and  pour  some  cream  into  the  dish, 
^nd  a  spoonful  or  two  of  broth.     Cover  with  crust. 
Potatoe  Pasty, 
Boil,  peel,  and  mash  potatoes  as  fine  as  possible  ; 
then  mix  pepper,  salt,  and  a  httle  thick  cream,  or, 
if  you  prefer  it,  butter.     Make  a  paste,  and,  rolling 
it  out  like  a  large  pufF,  put  the  potatoe  into  it,  and 
bake  it. 


90  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

Turnip  Pie. 

Season  mutton  chops  with  pepper  and  salt  :  lay 
them  in  the  boi.om  of  a  dish,  resen-ing  the  ends  of 
the  bones  to  lay  o'ver  the  turnips  ;  which  cut  and 
season,  and  lay  over  the  steaks  till  the  dish  be  full. 
Put  two  or  three  spoonfuls  of  water  in,  and  cover 
with  crust.  You  may  add  a  little  onion. 
Shrimp  Pie.      Excellent. 

Take  a  quart  of  picked  shrimps  :  if  very  salt, 
only  season  with  mace,  and  a  clove  or  two  in  fine  jj 
powder  ;  but  if  not  salt,  mmce  two  or  three  ancho- 
vies, mix  with  the  spice,  and  season  them.  Put 
some  butter  at  the  bottom  of  the  dish,  and  over 
the  shrimps,  and  a  glass  of  sharp  white  wine.  Put 
a  good  light  paste  over.  They  do  not  require  . 
long  baking. 

Cornish  Pies. 

Scald  and  blanch  some  broad  beans  :  cut  mush- 
rooms, carrots,  turnips,  and  artichoke  bottoms,  and 
with  some  pe  is,  and  a  little  onion,  make  the  whole 
into  a  nice  stew,  with  some  good  veal  gravy.  Bake 
a  crust  over  a  dish,  with  a  little  lining  round  the 
edge,  and  a  cup  within  to  keep  it  from  sinking  : 
open  the  lid,  and  put  in  the  fricassee  made  hot  ; 
seasoning  to  your  taste.  Shalots,  parsley,  lettuce, 
celery,  or  any  sort  of  vegetables  that  you  like,  may 
be  added. 

Fish  Pie. 

Put  slices  of  cod  that  have  been  salted  a  night  ; 
pepper,  and  between  each  Inyer  put  a  ^ood  quan-    J 


POULTRY.  91 

tity  of  parsley  picked  from  the  stalks,  and  some 
fresh  butter.  Pour  a  little  broth,  if  you  have  any, 
or  else  a  little  water.  Bake  the  pie  ;  and  when  to 
be  served,  add  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  raw  cream 
warm,  with  half  a  teaspoonful  of  flour.  Oysters 
may  be  added. 

Mackarel  wiU  do  well ;  but  do  not  salt  it  till  used. 

Soals,  with  oysters,  seasoned  with  pounded  mace, 
nutmeg,  pepp  r,  an  anchovy,  and  some  salt,  make 
an  excellent  pie.  Put  in  the  oyster  liquor,  two  or 
three  spoonfuls  of  broth,  and  some  butter,  for  gravy. 
When  come  from  the  oven,  pour  in  a  cup  of  thick 
cream. 

To  prepare  Meat  or  Fowls  for  raised  Pies. 

When  washed,  put  a  good  seasoninjg  of  spices 
and  salt.  Set  it  over  a  fire  in  a  stewpan,  that  will 
just  hold  the  meat :  put  a  piece  of  butter,  and, 
covering  close,  let  it  simmer  in  its  own  steam  till  it 
shrink.  It  must  be  cool  before  it  be  put  into  the 
pie.  Chicken's  sweetbreads,  giblets,  pigeon's  meat, 
alm.ost  any  thing  will  make  a  good  pie,  if  well  sea- 
soned, and  made  tender  by  stewing.  A  forcemeat 
may  be  put  under  and  over,  of  cold  chicken  or  veal, 
fat  bacon,  shred  ham,  herbs,  bread,  and  seasoning, 
bound  with  an  egg  or  two,  or  in  balls.  Or  instead 
of  crust,  use  an  earthen  pie  form. 
Haresy 

If  old,  should  be  larded  with  bacon,  after  having 
hung  as  long  as  they  will  keep,  and  being  first 
soaked  in  pepper  and  vinegar. 


92  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

If  notpaunthed  as  soon  as  killed,  hares  are  more 
juicy  :  but  as  .that  is  usually  done  in  the  field,  the 
cook  must  be  careful  to  wipe  it  dry  every  day  ;  the 
liver  being  removed,  and  boiled  to  keep  for  the 
stuffing. 

Parsley  put  into  the  belly  will  help  keep  it  fresh. 

When  to  be  dressed,  the  hare  must  be  well 
soaked  ;  and  if  the  neck  and  shoulders  are  bloody, 
in  warm,  water  :  then  dry  it,  and  put  to  it  a  large' 
fine  stuffing,  made  of  tlie  liver,  an  anchovy,  some 
fat  bacon,  a  little  suet,  herbs,  spice,  and  bread 
crumbs,  with  an  egg  to  bind  it.  Sew  it  up.  Ob- 
serve that  the  ears  are  nicely  cleaned  and  singed. 
When  half  roasted,  cut  the  skin  off  the  neck  to  let 
out  the  blood,  which  afterwards  fixes  there.  Baste 
with  milk  till  three  parts  done,  then  with  butter  : 
and  before  served,  froth  it  up  with  flour.  It  should 
be  put  down  early,  kept  at  a  great  distance  at  first 
from  the  fire,  and  drawn  nearer  by  degrees. 

Send  a  rich   brown   gravy   in   the  dish  ;  melted 
butter  in  one  boat,  and  currantjelly  in  another. 
To  Jug  an  old  Hare. 

After  it  is  well  cleaned  and  skinned,  cut  it  up 
and  season  it  with  pepper,  allspice,  salt,  pounded 
mace,-  and  a  little  nutnjeg  :  put  it  into  a  jar,  with  an 
onion,  a  clove  or  two,  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  and 
over  all  a  bit  of  coarse  beef.  Tie  it  down  with  a 
bladder  and  leather  quite  close,  and  put  the  jar  into 
a  saucepan  of  water  up  to  its  neck,  but  no  higher. 
L,et  the  water  boil  gently  five  hours,     \^^len  to  be 


MEATS.  93 

served,  pour  the  gravy  into  a  saucepan,  and  thick- 
en it  with  butter  and  flour  ;  or  if  become  cold, 
warm  the  hare  with  the  gravy. 

Hare  S'^up.      See  Scups, 
Hare  Pie. 

Season  the  hare  after  it  is  cut  up.  Put  eggs 
and  forcemeat,  and  either  bake  in  a  raised  crust  or 
a  dish  :  if  in  the  former,  put  cold  jelly  gravy  to  it  > 
if  for  the  latter,  the  same  hot ;  but  the  pie  is  to  be 
eaten  cold.  See  Jelly  Gravy  afnong  similar  articles. 
Potted  Hare. 
Having  seasoned,  and  baked  it  with  butter  over, 
cover  it  with  brown  paper,  and  let  it  grow  cold. 
Then  take  the  meat  from  the  bones,  beat  it  in  a 
mortar,  and  add  salt,  mace,  and  pepper,  if  not  high 
enough  ;  a  bit  of  fresh  butter  melted,  and  a  spoon- 
ful of  the  gravy  that  came  from  the  hare  when 
baked.  Put  the  meat  into  small  pots,  and  cover  it 
well  with  butter  wanned.  The  prime  should  be 
baked  at  the  bottom  of  the  pot. 

Broiled  Hare  and  hashed. 

The    flavour  of  broiled  hare  is  particularly  fine. 

The  legs  or  wings   peppered   and  salted  first,   and 

when  done,   rubbed  with   cold  butter.     The  other 

parts  warmed  with  the  gravy  and  a  little  stuffing. 

Rabbits 

May  be  eaten  various  ways. 

Roasted  with  stuffing  and  gravy. 

Ditto  without  stuffing  ;   and  with  liver,  parsley, 
and  butter  :  seasoned  with  pepper  and  salt. 


94  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

Boiled,  and  smothered  with  onion  sauce  ;  the 
butter  being  melted  with  milk  instead  of  water. 

Fried,  and  served  with  dried  or  fried  parsley,  and 
liver  sauce  as  above. 

Fricasseed,  as  directed  for  chickens. 

Made  into  pies,  as  chickens,  with  forcemeat,  Sec. 
are  excellent,  when  young. 

To  make  Rabbit  taste  much  like  Hare. 

Choose  a  young  fuUgrown  one  :  hang  it,  with 
the  skin  on,  two  or  three  days  :  skin,  and  lay  it  un- 
washed in  a  seasoning  of  black  and  Jamaica  pep- 
pers, in  fine  powder,  putting  some  port  wine  into 
the  dish,  and  baste  it  occasionally  for  forty  hours  : 
then  stuff  and  roast  it  as  hare,  and  with  the  same 
sauce.  Do  not  wash  off  the  liquor  that  it  lay  in. 
Potted  Rabbit. 

Cut  up  and  season  three  or  four  after  washing 
them.  The  seasoning  must  be  mace,  pepper,  salt, 
a  little  Cayenne,  and  a  few  pimentos  in  finest  pow- 
der. Pack  them  as  close  as  possible  in  a  small  pan, 
and  make  the  surface  smooth.  Keep  out  the  car- 
casses, having  taken  all  the  meat  off  them,  and,  put- 
ting a  good  deal  of  butter  over  the  rabbits,  bake 
them  gently.  Let  them  remain  a  day  or  two,  then 
rem.ove  into  potting  pans  ;  and  add  some  fresh  but- 
ter to  that  which  already  covers  them. 
SOUPS. 
Giblet  Soup. 

Scald  and  clean  three  or  four  sets  of  goose  or 
duck  giblets  ;  then  set  them  on  to  stew  with  a  scrag 


SOUPS.  BS 

of  mutton,  or  a  pound  of  gravy  beef,  or  bone  of 
knuckle  of  veal,  an  oxtail,  or  some  shankbones  of 
mutton  ;  three  onions,  a  blade  of  mace,  ten  pepper- 
corns, two  cloves,  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  and  two 
quarts  of  water.  Simmer  till  the  gizzards  are  quite 
tender,  which  must  be  cut  in  three  or  four  parts  ; 
then  put  in  a  httle  cream,  a  spoonful  of  flour  rub- 
bed smooth  with  it,  and  a  spoonful  of  mushroom 
catsup  ;  or  two  glasses  of  sherry  or  Madeira  wine 
instead  of  cream,  and  some  Cayenne. 
Turnip  Soup, 

Stew  down  a  knuckle  of  veal :  strain,  and  let  the 
broth  stand  still  next  day  ;  take  off  the  fat  and 
sediment,  and  warm  it,  adding  turnips  cut  in  small 
dice ;  stew  till  they  are  tender  :  put  a  bit  of  pounded 
mace,  white  pepper,  and  salt.  Before  you  serve,  rub 
down  half  a  spoonful  of  flour,  with  half  a  pint  of 
cream, and  boil  with  the  soup  :  pour  it  on  a  roll  in  the 
tureen  ;  but  it  should  have  soaked  a  little  first  in  the 
soup,  which  should  be  as  thick  as  middling  cream. 
Old  Peas  Soup. 

Save  the  water  of  boiled  pork  or  beef :  if  too  salt, 
use  only  a  part,  and  the  other  of  plain  water  :  or  put 
some  roast  beef  bones,  -or  a  ham  or  bacon  bone  to 
give  a  relish  ;  or  an  anchovy  or  two.  Set  these  on 
with  some  good  whole  or  split  peas,  the  smaller 
quantity  of  v.'ater  at  first  the  better  :  simmer  till  the 
peas  will  pulp  through  a  colander  ;  then  set  that, 
and  some  more  of  the  liquor,  besides  what  boiled 
the  peas,  some  carrots,  turnips,  celery,  and  onion, 

L 


93  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

or  a  leek  or  two,  to  stew  till  all  be  tender.  Celery- 
will  take  less  time,  and  may  be  put  in  an  hour  be- 
fore dinner.  When  ready,  put  fried  bread  in  dice, 
dried  mint  rubbed  small,  pepper,  and,  if  wanted, 
salt,  in  the  tureen,  and  pour  the  soup  upon  them. 
Green  Peas  Soup. 

In  shelling,  divide  the  old  from  the  young,  and 
put  the  former,  with  a  bit  of  butter,  and  a  little  wa- 
ter into  a  stewpan,  and  the  old  parts  of  lettuce,  an 
onion  or  two,  a  little  pepper  and  salt.  Simmer  till 
the  peas  will  pulp  through  a  colander  ;  which  when 
done,  add  to  it  some  more  water,  and  that  which 
boiled  the  peas,  the  best  parts  of  the  lettuce,  and 
the  young  peas,  a  handful  of  spinach  cut  small, 
pepper,  and  salt  to  taste.  Stew  till  the  vegetables 
are  quite  tender  ;  and  a  few  minutes  before  serv- 
ing, throw  in  some  green  mint,  cut  fine. 

Should  the  soup  be  too  thin,  a  spoonful  of  rice- 
flour,  rubbed  down  with  a  bit  of  butter,  and  boiled 
with  it,  will  give  it  consistence. 

Note.  If  soup  or  gravy  be  too  weak,  the  cover 
of  the  saucepan  should  be  taken  off,  and  the  steam 
let  out,  boiling  it  very  quick. 

When  there  is  plenty  of  vegetables,  green  peas 
soup  needs  no  meat  :  but  if  approved,  a  pig's  foot, 
or  a  small  bit  of  any  sort,  may  be  boiled  with  the 
old  peas,  and  removed  into  the  second  process  till 
the  juices  shall  be  obtained.  Observe,  three  or  four 
ounces  of  butter,  will  supply  richness  to  a  soup 
without  meat,  or  make  it  higher  with  it. 


SOUPS.  &7 

Gravy  Soup. 

Wash  a  leg  of  beef,  break  the  bone,  and  set  it 
over  the  fire  with  five  quarts  of  water,  a  large 
bunch  of  herbs,  two  onions,  sliced  and  fried,  but  not 
burnt,  a  blade  or  two  of  mace,  three  cloves,  twenty 
Jamaica  peppers,  and  forty  olack.  Simmer  till  the 
soup  be  as  ri^h  as  you  choose  ;  then  strain  off  the 
meat,  which  will  be  fit  for  the  servants'  table.  Next 
day  take  off  the  cake  of  fat,  and  that  will  warm 
with  vegetables  ;  or  make  a  piecrust  for  the  sam.e. 
Have  ready  such  vegetables  as  you  choose  to  serve, 
cut  in  dice,  carrot,  and  turnip,  sliced,  and  simmer 
till  tender.  Celery  should  be  stewed  in  it  likewise  ; 
and  before  you  serve,  boil  some  vermicelli  long 
enough  to  be  tender,  which  it  will  be  in  fifteen  min- 
utes. Add  a  spoonful  of  soy,  and  one  of  mushrocm 
catsup.  Some  people  do  not  serve  the  vegetables, 
only  boil  for  the  flavour.  A  small  roll  should  be 
made  hot,  and  kept  long  enough  in  the  saucepan  to 
swell,  and  then  be  sent  up  in  the  tureen. 
A  rich  White  Soup. 

Boil  in  a  small  quantity  of  water  a  knuckle  of 
veal,  and  scrag  of  mutton,  m.ace,  white  pepper,  two 
or  three  onions,  and  sweet  herbs,  the  day  before 
you  want  the  soup.  Next  day  take  off  the  fat,  and 
put  the  jelly  into  a  saucepan,  with  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  sweet  almonds  blanched,  and  beaten  to  a 
paste  in  a  mortar  with  a  little  water  to  prevent 
oiling,  and  put  to  it  a  piece  of  stale  white  bread,  or 
crumb  of  a  roll,  a  bit  of  cold  veal,  or  white  of  chicken. 


.«8  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

Beat  these  all  to  a  paste  with  the  almond  paste,  and 
boil  it  a  few  minutes  with  a  pint  of  raw  thick  cream, 
a  bit  of  fresh  lemonpeel,  and  half  a  blade  of  mace 
pounded  ;  then  add  this  thickening  to  the  soup. 
Let  it  boil  up  and  strain  it  into  the  tureen  :  if  not 
salt  enough,  then  put  it  in.  If  macaroni  or  vermi- 
celli be  served,  they  should  be  boiled  in  the  soup, 
and  the  thickening  be  strained  after  being  mixed 
with  a  part.     A  small  rasped  roll  may  be  put  in. 

Instead  of    the    cream    thickening,    as   above, 
ground  rice,  and  a  little  cream  may  be  used. 
A  plainer  White  Soup. 

Of  a  small  knuckle  of  veal,  two  or  three  pints  of 
soup  may  be  made,  with  seasoning  as  before,  and 
both  served  together,  with  the  addition  of  a  quarter 
of  a  pint  of  good  milk. 

jin  excellent  Soup. 

A  scrag  or  knuckle  of  veal,  slices  of  undressed 
gammon,  onions,  mace,  and  a  small  quantity  o£ 
water,  simmered  till  very  strong,  and  lower  it  with 
1  good  beef  broth  made  the  day  before,  and  stewed 
until  the  meat  is  done  to  rags.  Add '  cream,  ver- 
micelli, almonds  as  before,  and  a  roll. 
Carrot  Soup. 

Put  some  beef  bones,  with  four  quarts  of  the 
liquor  in  which  a  leg  of  mutton  or  beef  has  been 
boiled,  two  large  onions,  one  turnip,  pepper  and  salt, 
into  a  saucepan,  and  stew  for  three  hours.  Have 
ready  six  large  carrots,  cut  thin  after  they  arc 
scraped;  strain  the  soup  on  them,    and  stew  till 


SOUPS.  99 

soft  enough  to  pulp  through  a  hairtieve  or  coarse 
cloth  :  then  boil  the  pulp  with  the  soup  ;  which  is 
to  be  as  thick  as  peassoup.  Use  two  woodea  spoons 
to  rub  the  carrots  through.  Make  the  soup  the  day 
before  it  is  to  be  used.  Add  Cayenne. 
Onion  Soup. 

To  the  water  that  has  boiled  a  leg  or  neck  of 
mutton,  put  can-ots,  turnips,  and,  if  you  have  one, 
a  shankbone,  and  simmer  till  the  juices  are  obtain- 
ed. Strain  it  on  six  onions  previously  sliced,  and 
fried  a  light  brown  ;  with  which  simmer  it  three 
hours.  Skim  it  carefully,  and  serve  it.  Put  into 
it  a  little  roll  or  fried  bread. 

P^egetable  Soup. 

Pare  and  slice  five  or  six  cucumbers,  the  inside 
of  as  many  cos  lettuces,  a  sprig  or  two  of  mint,  two 
or  three  onions,  some  pepper  and  salt,  a  pint  and 
half  of  young  peas,  and  a  little  parsley.  Put  these, 
with  half  a  pound  of  fresh  butter,  into  a  saucepan 
to  stew  in  their  own  Iquor  near  a  gentle  fire  half  an 
hour  ;  then  pour  two  quarts  of  boihng  water  to  the 
vegetables,  and  stew  them  two  hours  :  rub  down  a 
little  flour  into  a  teacup  of  water  ;  boil  it  with  the 
rest  fifteen  or  twenty  mxinutes,  and  serve  it. 
Another  Vegetable  Soup. 

Peel  and  slice  six  large  onions,  six  potatoes,  si  x 
carrots,  and  four  turnips  :  fry  them  in  half  a  pound 
of  butter  :  pour  on  them  four  quarts  of  boiling  water, 
and  toast  a  crust  of  bread  as  brown  and  hard  as  pos- 
sible, but  do  not  burn  it  '.  put  that,  some  celery, 
L  2 


.00  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

sweet  herbs,  white  pepper  and  salt,  to  the  above  : 
stew  gently  four  hours,  strain  through  a  coarse 
cloth  :  have  ready  shced  carrot,  celery,  and  a  little 
turnip,  and  add  to  your  liking  ;  and  stew  them  ten- 
der in  the  soup.  If  approved,  you  may  add  an 
anchovy,  and  a  spoonful  of  catsup. 
Spinach  Soup. 

Shred  two  handfuls  of  spinach,  a  turnip,  two 
onions,  a  head  of  celery,  two  carrots,  and  a  little 
thyme  and  parsley.  Put  all  into  a  stewpot,  with  a 
bit  of  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut,  and  a  pint  of  broth,  ^ 
or  the  water  in  which  meat  has  been  boiled  ;  stew 
till  the  vegetables  are  quite  tender  :  work  then^ 
through  a  coarse  cloth  or  sieve  with  a  spoon  ;  then 
with  the  pulp  of  the  vegetables,  and  liquor,  a  quart 
of  fresh  water,  pepper  and  salt,  boil  all  together. 
Have  ready  some  suet  dumplings,  the  size  of  a  wal- 
nut, and  before  you  put  the  soup  into  the  tureen, 
put  them  into  it.  The  suet  must  not  be  shred  too 
fine  ;  and  take  care  that  it  is  perfectly  fresh. 
Scotch  Leek  Soup, 

Put  the  boiling  of  a  leg  of  mutton  into  a  stewpot, 
with  a  quantity  of  chopped  leeks,  and  pepper  and 
salt  ;  simmer  them  an  hour,  then  mix  some  oat- 
meal with  a  little  cold  water  quite  smiOoth,  pour  it 
into  the  soup,  and  setting  it  on  a  slow  part  of  the 
fire,  let  it  simmer  gently  ;  but  take  care  that  it  does 
not  burn  to  the  bottom. 

Hare  Soup, 

Take  an  old  hare  that  is  good  for  nothing  else 


SOUPS.  101 

than  soup,  cut  in  pieces,  and  put  it  with  a  pound 
and  a  half  of  lean  beef,  two  or  three  shankbones 
of  mutton  well  cleaned,  a  slice  of  lean  bacon  or 
ham  ;  an  onion,  and  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs  :  pour 
on  it  two  quarts  of  boiling  water  :  cover  the  jar,  in 
which  you  put  these,  with  bladder  and  paper,  and 
set  it  in  a  kettle  of  water  :  simmer  till  the  hare  is 
stewed  to  pieces  :  strain  off  the  liquor,  and  give  it 
one  boil,  with  an  anchovy  cut  in  pieces,  and  add  a 
spoonful  of  soy,  and  a  little  Cayenne  and  salt.  A 
few  fine  forcemeat  balls,  fried  of  a  good  brown, 
should  be  served  in  the  tureen. 

Scotch  Mutton  Broth. 

Soak  a  neck  of  mutton  in  water  for  an  hour  :  cut 
off  the  scrag,  and  put  into  a  stewpot  with  two 
quarts  of  water  ;  as  soon  as  it  boils,  skim  it  well 
and  simmer  it  an  hour  and  a  half  ;  then  take  the 
best  end  of  the  m.utton,  cut  it  into  pieces,  two  bones 
in  each,  and  put  as  many  as  you  think  proper,  hav- 
ing cut  off  som.e  of  the  fat.  Skim  it  the  moment 
the  fresh  meat  boils  up,  and  every  quarter  of  an 
hour.  Have  ready  four  or  five  carrots,  the  same 
of  turnips,  and  three  onions,  all  cut,  but  not 
small,  and  put  in  time  enough  to  be  quite  tender  ; 
two  large  spoonfuls  of  Scotch  barley,  first  wetted 
with  cold  water.  The  meat  should  stew  three 
hours.  Salt  to  taste,  and  serve  all  together. 
Twenty  minutes  before  serving,  put  in  some  chop- 
ped parsley. 

It  is  an  excellent  winter  dish. 


102  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

Soups  under  the  articles  of  their  respective  Meats* 

Oxcheek  Soup.  Hessian  Soup.  Mock  turtle, 
page  50  to>53. 

Oxrump  Soup. 

Two  or  three  rumps  of  beef,  will  make  it  strong* 
er  than  a  much  larger  proportion  of  meat  without  ; 
and  form  a  very  nourishing  soup. 

Make  it  like  gravy  soup,  and  give  it  what  flavour 
or  thickening  you  like. 

Soup  A'la-sap. 

Boil  half  a  pound  of  grated  potatoes,  one  pound 
of  beef  sliced  thin,  one  pint  of  greypeas,  one  onion, 
and  three  ounces  of  rice,  in  six  pints  of  water  to 
five  ;  strain  it  through  a  colander,  then  pulp  the 
peas  to  it,  and  turn  it  into  a  saucepan  again,  with 
two  heads  of  celery  sliced  ;  stew  it  tender,  adding 
pepper  and  salt  ;  and  when  you  serve,  fried  bread. 
Crawfish  or  Prawn  Soup. 

Boil  six  whitings,  and  a  large  eel  ;  or  the  latter, 
and  half  a  thornback,  being  well  cleaned,  with  as 
much  water  as  will  cover  them.  Skjm  clean,  and 
put  in  whole  pepper,  mace,  ginger,  parsley,  an 
onion,  a  little  thyme,  and  three  cloves.  Boil  to  a 
mash.  Pick  fifty  crawfish,  or  a  hundred  praw^ns, 
pound  the  shells,  and  a  little  roll,  after  having  boil- 
ed them  with  a  little  water,  vinegar,  salt  and  herbs. 
Pour  this  Hquor  over  the  shells  in  a  sieve,  then  pour 
the  other  soup,  clear  from  the  sediment  ;  chop  a 
lobster,  and  add  to  it,  with  a  quart  of  good  beef 
gravy.  Add  the  tails  of  the  crawfish  or  the  prawns, 
^nd  some  flour  and  butter  ;  and  season  as  necessary. 


SOUPS.  103 

Portable  Soup.  A  very  vseful  thing. 
Boil  one  or  two  knuckles  of  veal^  one  or  two 
shins  of  beef,  and  a  pound  or  more  of  fine  juicy 
beef,  in  as  much  water  only  as  will  cover  them. 
When  the  bones  are  cracked,  out  of  which  take 
the  marrow,  put  any  sort  of  spice  you  hke,  and 
three  large  onions.  When  the  meat  is  done  to 
rags,  strain  it  off,  and  put  lu  a  'very  cold  place. 
When  cold,  take  off  the  cake  of  fat  (which  will 
make  crusts  for  servants'  pies),  put  the  soup  into  a 
double  botom  tin  saucepan,  set  it  on  a  pretty  quick 
fire,  but  do  not  let  it  burn.  It  must  boil  fast,  and  un- 
<5overed,  and  be  stirred  constantly  for  eight  hours . 
Put  into  a  pan,  and  let  it  stand  in  a  cold  place  a  day  ; 
then  pour  it  into  a  round  soup  China  dish,  and  set 
the  dish  into  a  stewpan  of  boiling  water  on  a  stove, 
^nd  let  it  boil,  and  be  occasionally  stirred,  till  the 
soup  become  thick  and  ropy  ;  then  it  is  enough. 
Pour  it  into  the  little  round  part  at  the  bottom  of 
cups  or  basons  to  form  cakes  ;  and  when  cold,  turn 
them  out  on  flannel  to  dry,  and  wrap  them  in  it. 
Keep  them  in  tin  canisters.  When  to  be  used, 
melt  in  boihng  water  :  and  if  you  wish  the  flavour 
of  herbs  or  any  thing  else,  boil  it  first,  and  having 
strained  the  water,  melt  the  soup  in  it. 

This  is  very  convenient  for  a  bason  of  soup  or 
gravy  in  the  country,  or  at  sea,  where  fresh  meat 
is  not  always  at  hand. 

Char  gravy. 
Slice  beef  thin  :  broil  a  part  of  it,  over  a  very 


104  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

clear  quick  fire,  just  enough  to  give  colour  to  the 
gravy,  but  not  to  dress  it :  put  that,  and  the  raw 
into  a  very  nicely  tinned  stev^pan,  with  tw^o  onions,' 
a  clove,  or  two  Jamaica  and  black  peppers,  and  a 
bunch  of  sweet  herbs  :  cover  it  with  hot  water ; 
give  it  one  boil,  and  skim  it  well  two  or  three  times  : 
then  cover  it  and  simmer  till  quite  strong. 

To  draiv  Gravy  that  will  keep  a  <weei. 

Cut  thin  lean  beef :  put  it  in  a  fryingpan  without 
any  butter  :  set  it  on  a  fire  covered,  but  take  care 
it  does  not  burn  :  let  it  stay  till  all  the  gravy  that 
comes  out  of  the  meat  be  dried  up  into  it  again  ; 
then  put  as  much  water  as  will  cover  the  meat,  and 
let  that  stew  away.  Then  put  to  the  meat  a  small 
quantity  of  water,  herbs,  onions,  spice,  a  bit  of  lean 
ham  :  simmer  till  it  is  rich,  then  keep  it  in  a  cool 
place.  Remove  the  fat  only  when  going  to  be  used. 
A  rich  Gravy, 

Cut  beef  in  thin  slices,  according  to  the  quantity 
wanted  :  slice  onions  thin,  and  flour  both  :  fry 
them  of  a  light  pale  brown,  but  on  no  account  suf- 
fer them  to  go  black  :  put  them  into  a  stewpan,  and 
pouring  boihng  water  on  the  browning  in  the  fry- 
ingpan, boil  it  up,  and  pour  on  the  meat.  Put  to 
it  a  bunch  of  parsley,  thyme,  savory,  and  a  small 
bit  of  knotted  marjorum,  and  the  same  of  tarragon, 
$ome  mace,  Jamaica  and  black  peppers,  a  clove  or 
two,  and  a  bit  of  ham  or  gammon.  Simmer  till 
you  have  all  the  juices  of  the  meat ;  and  be  sure  to 
skim  the  moment  it  boils,  and  frequently  after.     If 


GRAVIES.  105 

for  a  hare,  or  stewed  fish,  anchovy  should  be  added. 

The  shankbones  of  mutton  are  a  great  improve- 
ment to  the  richness  of  the  gravy  ;  being  first  w^ell 
soaked,  and  scoured  clean. 

Note,  Jelly  gravy  for  cold  pies  should  be  brown 
or  white,  as  the  meat  or  fowl  is.  It  must  be  drawn 
without  frying,  relished,  and  made  quite  clean,  by 
running  it  through  a  flannel  bag.  To  give  it  the 
consistence  of  jelly,  shanks,  or  knuckle,  or  feet, 
should  be  boiled  with  the  bones. 

Jelly  to  cover  cold  Fish, 

Clean  a  maid  :  put  it  with  three  quarts  of  water, 
an  ounce  and  a  half  of  isinglass,  a  bit  of  mace, 
lemonpeel,  white  peppers,  a  stick  of  horseradish, 
and  a  Httle  ham  or  gammon.  Stew,  till  on  trying 
with  a  spoon  you  find  that  it  jellies  :  then  strain  it 
off,  and  add  to  it  the  whites  of  five  eggs,  a  glass  of 
sheiTy  wine,  and  the  juice  of  a  lemon  ;  give  it  an- 
other boil,  and  pour  it  through  a  jellybag  till  quite 
transparent.  When  cold,  lay  it  over  the  fish  with 
a  spoon. 

CuUis,  or  broiun  Sauce, 

Lay  as  much  lean  veal  over  the  bottom  of  a  stew- 
pan  as  will  cover  it  an  inch  thick  ;  then  cover  the 
veal  with  thin  slices  of  undressed  gammon,  two  or 
three  onions,  two  or  three  bayleaves,  some  sweet 
herbs,  two  blades  of  mace,  and  three  cloves.  Cover 
the  stewpan,  and  set  it  over  a  slow  fire.  When  the 
juices  come  out,  let  the  fire  be  a  little  quicker. 
When  the  meat  is  of  a  fiue  brown,  fill  the  pan  with 


106  DOMESTIC  COOICERY. 

good  beef  broth,  boil  and  skim  it,  then  simmer  an 
hour  :  add  a  little  water,  mixed  with  as  much  flour 
as  will  make  it  properly  thick  :  boil  it  half  an  hour, 
and  strain  it.     This  will  keep  a  week. 
Veal  Gravy, 

Make  as  directed  for  the  culHs,  leaving  out  th^ 
spice,  herbs,  and  flour.  It  should  be  drawn  very 
slowly  :  and  if  for  white  dishes,  do  not  let  the  meat, 
brown. 

Bechamel  or  White  Sauce. 

Cut  lean  veal  in  small  slices,  and  the  same  quan- 
tity of  lean  bacon  or  ham  :  put  them  in  a  stewpan, 
with  a  good  piece  of  butter,  an  onion,  a  blade  of 
mace,  a  fev/  mushroom  buttons,  a  bit  of  thyme,  and 
a  bayleaf.  Fry  the  whole  over  a  very  slow  fire, 
but  not  to  brown  it  :  add  flour  to  thicken  ;  then 
put  an  equal  quantity  of  good  broth,  and  rich  cream. 
Let  it  boil  half  an  hour,  stirring  it  all  the  time  ; 
strain  it  through  a  soup  strainer. 

N.  B.  Soups  and  gravies  are  far  better  by  putting 
the  meat  at  the  bottom  of  the  pan,  and  stewing  it, 
and  the  herbs,  roots,  &c.  with  butter,  than  by  add- 
ing the  water  to  the  meat  at  first ;  and  the  gravy 
that  is  drawn  from  the  meat,  should  be  nearly 
dried  up  before  the  water  is  put  to  it.  Do  not  use 
the  sediment  of  gravies,  &c.  that  have  stood  to  be 
cold.  When  onions  are  strong,  boil  a  turnip  with 
them,  if  for  sauce,  which  will  make  them  mild. 
Sauce  for  Wild  FoivL 

Simmer  ten   minutes  a  teacupful  of  port  wine. 


SAUCE.  107 

the  same  of  good  meat  gravy,  a  little  shalot,  a  little 
pepper,  salt,  a  grate  of  nutmeg,  and  a  bit  of  mace  : 
put  a  bit  of  butter  and  flour  :  give  one  boil,  and 
pour  through  the  birds  ;  which  in  general  are  not 
stuffed  as  tame,  but  may  be  done  so,  if  liked. 
Another  for  the  same^  or  Ducks, 

Serve  a  rich  gravy  in  the  dish  :  cut  the  breast  in  • 
slices,  but  do  not  take  them  off ;  cut  a  lemon,  and 
put  pepper  and   salt  on  it  ;  then  squeeze  it  on  the 
breast,  and  pour  a  spoonful   of  gravy  over  before 
you  help. 

Note.  In  cutting  up  any  wild  fowl,  duck,  goose, 
or  turkey  for  a  large  party,  if  you  cut  the  slices 
down  from  pinion  to  pinion,  without  makiag  wings, 
there  will  be  more  prime  pieces. 

Sauce  Robart  for  Rumps  or  Steaks. 

Put  into  a  saucepan  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of 
an  ^gg  :  set  it  over  the  fire,  and  when  browning, 
throw  in  a  handful  of  sliced  onions  cut  small  :  fry 
them  brown,  but  do  not  let  them  bum  :  add  half  a 
spoonful  of  Hour,  shake  the  onions  in  it,  give  another 
fry,  then  put  four  spoonfuls  of  gravy,  pepper,  and 
salt,  and  boil  gently  ten  minutes.  Skim  off  the  fat ; 
add  a  teaspoonful  of  made  mustard,  a  spoonful  cf 
vinegar,  and  half  a  lemon  juice  :  boil,  and  pour 
round  the  steaks,  which  should  be  of  a  fine  yellow 
brown,  and  garnished  with  fried  parsley  and  lemon. 
An  Excellent  Sauce  for  Carp  or  boiled  Turkey, 
Rub  half  a  pound  of  butter  with  a  teaspoonful  of 
flour  ;  put  to  it  a  I'lttk  w.iter.  melt  it,  and  add  near  a 

M 


108  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

quarter  of  a  pint  of  thick  cream,  and  half  an  ancho- 
vy chopped  fine,  unwashed  ;  set  it  over  the  fire,  and 
as  it  boils  up,  add  a  large  spoonful  of  real  India  spy. 
If  that  does  not  give  it  a  fine  colour,  put  a  little 
more.  Turn  it  into  the  saucetureen,  and  put  some 
salt,and  half  a  lemon.  Stir  it  well  to  prevent  curdling. 
Sauce  for  cold  Fo<wl  or  Partridge* 

Rub  down  in  a  mortar  the  yelks  of  two  eggs  boil- 
ed hard,  an  anchovy,  two  dessert  spoonfuls  of  oil,  a 
little  shalot,and  a  teaspoonful  of  mustard,  (all should 
be  pounded  before  the  oil  be  added)  then  strain  it. 
Vingaret  for  cold  Fonvl  or  Meat. 

Chop  fine  mint,  parsley,  and  shalot,  and  add  salt, 
oil,  and  vinegar.  It  may  be  poured  over,  or  sent 
in  a  boat. 

Benton  Sauce  for  hot  ar  cold  roast  Beef 

Grate,  or  scrape  very  fine,  horseradish,  a  little 
flSade  mustard,  some  pounded  white  sugar,  and  four 
large  spoonfuls  of  vinegar. 

Serve  in  a  saucer. 

To  melt  Butter, 

On  a  clean  trencher,  mix  a  little  flour  to  a  large 
piece  of  butter,  in  the  proportion  of  a  teaspoonful 
to  a  full  quarter  of  a  pound  ;  then  put  into  a  sauce- 
pan, and  pour  on  it  two  large  spoonfuls  of  hot  wa- 
ter ;  set  it  on  the  fire,  and  let  it  boil  quick.  You 
should  stir  it  round  one  way,  and  serve  it  as  soon 
as  ready. 

On  the  goodness  of  this  depends  the  look  and 
flavour  of  every  sauce  in  which  it  is  put.. 


SAUCE.  109 

Lobster  Sauce» 

Pound  the  spawn,  and  two  anchovies  :  pour  on 
two  spoonfuls  of  gravy  :  strain  it  into  some  butter 
melted  as  above  ;  then  put  in  the  meat  of  the  lob- 
ster, give  one  boil,  and  add  a  squeeze  of  lemon. 
ji not  her  way. 

Leave  out  the  anchovies  and  gravy,  and  do  as 
above,  with  a  little  salt,  and  catsup,  or  not,  as  you 
like.  Many  prefer  the  flavour  of  the  lobster  and 
salt  only. 

Shrimp  Sauce, 

If  not  picked  at  home,  pour  a  little  water  over 
to  wash,  and  put  them  to  butter  melted  thick  and 
smooth :  give  them  one  boil,  and  add  the  juice  of 
lemon. 

Anchovy  Sauce, 

Chop  one  or  two  \^athout  washing  :  put  to  some 
flour  and  butter,  and  a  little  drop  of  water  :  stir  it 
over  the  fire  till  it  boil  once  or  twice.  When  the 
anchovies  are  good,  they  will  be  dissolved  ;  and  the 
colour  will  be  better  than  by  the  usual  way. 
F'tjh  Sauce  ^without  Butter, 

Simmer  very  gently  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  vine- 
gar, half  a  pint  of  water  (which  must  not  be  hard) 
with  an  onion,  half  a  handful  of  horseradish,  and 
the. following  spices  lightly  bruised  :  four  cloves, 
two  blades  of  mace,  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  black 
pepper.  When  the  onion  is  quite  tender,  chop  it 
small  with  two  anchovies  :  and  set  the  whole  on 
the  fire  to  boil  for  a  few  minutes,  with  a  spoonful 


110  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

of  catsup.  Mean  time,  have  ready  and  well  beaten 
the  yelks  of  three  fresh  eggs  :  strain  ;  mix  in  the 
liqaor  by  degrees  with  them  ;  and  when  well  mix- 
ed, set  the  saucepan  over  a  gentle  fire,  keeping  a 
bason  in  one  hand,  into  which  toss  the  sauce  to  and 
fro,  shaking  the  saucepan  over  the  fire,  that  the  eggs 
may  not  curdle.  Do  not  boil,  only  let  the  sauce  be 
hot  enough  to  give  the  thickness  of  melted  butter. 
Lemon  Sauce. 

Cut  thin  slices  of  lemon  into  very  small  dice, 
and  put  into  melted  butter  ;  give  one  boil,  and  pour 
over  boiled  fowls. 

Liver  Sauce, 

Chop  boiled  liver  of  rabbits  or  fowls,  and  do  as 
above,  with  a  very  little  pepper  and  salt,  and  some 
parsley. 

ji  very  good  SaucCy  especially  to  hide  the  bad  colour  of 
Foivls, 

Cut  the  livers,  slices  of  lemon  in  dice,  scalded 
parsley,  and  hard  eggs  :  add  salt,  and  mix  with  but- 
ter :   boil  up,  and  pour  over  the  fowls. 

Or  for  roast  rabbit. 

Egg  Sauce. 

Boil  the  eggs  hard,  and  cut  them  in  small  pieces  : 
then  put  them  to  melted  butter. 
Buttered  Eggs. 

Beat  four  or  five  eggs,  yelk  and  M^hite  together  : 
put  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter  in  a  bason  and 
then  put  that  in  boihng  water  ;  stir  it  till  melted  : 
then  pour  that  butter  and  the  eggs  into  a  saucepan. 


SAUCE.  lU 

Keep  a  bason  in  your  hand  :  just  hold  the  sauce- 
pan in  the  other  over  a  slow  part  of  the  fire,  shak- 
ing it  one  way  ;  as  it  begins  to  warm,  pour  it  into 
a  bason,  and  back  ;  then  hold  it  again  over  the 
fire,  stirring  it  constantly  in  the  saucepan,  and 
pouring  it  into  the  bason,  more  perfectly  to  mix 
the  egg  and  butter,  until  they  shall  be  hot  without 
boiling. 

Serve  on  toasted  bread  ;  or  iij  a  bason  to  eat 
with  salt  fish  or  red  herrings. 

Onion  Sauce, 

Peel,  and  boil  onions  tender  :  squeeze  the  water 
from  them  ;  then  chop,  and  add  butter  that  has 
been  melted  rich  and  smooth  as  before,  but  with  a 
little  good  milk  instead  of  water  :  boil  up  once,  and 
serve  for  boiled  rabbits,  partridges,  scrag,  or  knuc- 
kle of  veal ;  or  roast  mutton. 

Oyster  Sauce, 

Save  the  liquor  in  opening,  and  boil  with  the 
beards,  a  bit  of  mace,  and  lemonpeel.  Mean  time 
throw  the  oysters  into  cold  water,  and  drain  it  off. 
Strain  the  hquor,  and  put  it  into  a  saucepan  with 
them,  and  as  much  butter,  mixed  with  a  little  milk, 
as  will  make  sauce  enough  ;  a  little  flour  being 
previously  rubbed  with  it. 

Set  them  over  the  fire,  stir  all  the  time ;  and 
when  the  butter  has  boiled  once  or  tviaee,  take 
them  off,  and  keep  the  saucepan  near,  but  not  on 
the  fire  ;  for  if  done  too  much,  the  oysters  will  be 
hard.  Squeeze  a  little  lemonjuice,  and  serve. 
M  2 


112  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

If  for  company,  a  little  cream  is  a  great  ini 
provement.  Observe  the  oysters  will  thin  the  sauce, 
and  put  butter  accordingly. 

Bread  Sauce. 

Boil  a  large  onion,  cut  in  four,  with  some  black 
peppers,  and  milk,  until  the  former  be  quite  a  pap. 
Pour  the  milk  strained  on  grated  white  stale  bread, 
and  cover  it.  In  an  hour  put  it  into  a  saucepan, 
with  a  good  piece  of  butter,  mixed  with  a  little 
flour  :  boil  the  whole  up  together,  and  serve. 

Some  people  like  the  bread  pulped  through  a 
colander  before  the  butter  be  added.  A  large 
spoonful  of  cream  improves  it. 

Little  Eggs  for  Pies  or  Turtles. 

Boil  three  eggs  hard  :  beat  the  yelks  fine  with 
the  raw  yelk  of  an  tgg  ;  then  make  up  the  paste 
into  small  eggs,  and  throw  them  into  a  little  boiling 
water  to  harden. 

Fish  Sauce  A-la-Craster, 

Thicken  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter  with 
flour,  and  brown  it ;  then  put  to  it  a  pound  of  the 
best  anchovies,  cut  small,  six  blades  of  pounded 
mace,  ten  cloves,  forty  black  and  Jamaica  peppers, 
a  few  small  onions,  a  faggot  of  sweet  herbs  ;  name- 
ly, savory,  thyme,  basil,  and  knotted  marjorum  ;  a 
little  parsley,  and  sliced  horseradish.  On  these 
pour  half  a  pint  of  the  best  sherry  wine,  and  a  pint 
and  a  half  of  strong  gravy  :  simmer  all  gently  for 
twenty  minutes  ;  then  strain  it  through  a  sieve, 
3nd  bottle  it  for  use  :  the  way  of  which,  is  to  boil 
ome  of  it  in  the  butter,  as  melting. 


SAUCE.  US 

A  very  jine  Fish  Sauce. 

Put  into  a  very  nice  tin  saucepan,  a  pint  of  fine 
port  wine,  one  gill  of  mountain,  half  a  pint  of  wal- 
nut catsup  that  is  fine,  twelve  anchovies,  and  the 
liquor  that  belongs  to  them,  one  gill  of  walnut  pid 
kle,  the  rind  and  juice  of  a  large  lemon,  four  or 
five  shalots,  Cayenne  to  taste,  three  ounces  of 
scraped  horseradish,  three  blades  of  mace,  and  two 
teaspoonfuls  of  made  mustard  :  boil  gently,  till  the 
rawness  go  off,  then  put  it  in  small  bottles  for  use. 

Cork  very  close,  and  seal  the  top. 
Camp   Vinegar, 

Slice  a  large  head  of  garlick,  and  put  it  into  a 
widemouthed  bottle,  with  half  an  ounce  of  Cay- 
enne, two  teaspoonfuls  of  real  soy,  two  of  walnut 
catsup,  four  anchovies  chopped,  a  pint  of  vinegar, 
of  cochineal  enough  to  give  the  colour  of  lavender 
drops.  Let  it  stand  six  weeks,  then  strain  off 
quite  clear,  and  keep  in  small  bottles,  sealed  up. 
Lemon  Pickle. 

Wipe  six  lemons  :  cut  each  into  eight  pieces  :  put 
on  them  a  pound  of  salt,  six  large  cloves  of  garlick, 
two  ounces  of  horseradish,  sliced  thin  ;  likewise  of 
cloves,  mace,  nutmeg,  and  Cayenne,  a  quarter  of 
an  ounce  each,  and  two  ounces  of  flour  of  mustard  ; 
to  these  put  tw^o  quarts  of  vinegar  :  boil  a  quarter 
of  an  hour  in  a  well  tinned  saucepan,  or  which  is 
better,  do  it  in  a  strong  jar^  in  a  kettle  of  boiling 
water,  or  set  the  jar  on  the  hot  hearth  till  done. 
Set  the  jar  by,  and  stir  it  daily  for  six  weeks. 
Keep  the  jar  close  covered.     Put  into  small  botiies. 


114  DOMESTIC  COOKERY 

Shalot  Vinegar. 

Split  six  or  eight  shalots  :  put  them  into  a  quart 
bottle  :  fill  it  up  with  vinegar :  stop  it ;  and  in  a 
month  it  will  be  fit  for  use. 

Essence  of  jlnchovies. 

Take  a  dozen  of  anchovies,  chop  them,  and  with- 
out the  bone,  but  with  some  of  their  own  liquor 
strained  :  add  them  to  sixteen  large  spoonfuls  of 
water  :  boil  gently  till  dissolved,  which  will  be  in 
a  few  minutes.  When  cold,  strain  and  bottle  it. 
Mushroom  Catsup. 

Take  the  largest  broad  mushrooms,  break  them 
into  an  earthen  pan,  strew  salt  over,  and  stir  them 
flow  and  then  for  three  days.  Then  let  them  stand 
for  twelve,  till  there  is  a  thick  scum  over.  Strain, 
and  boil  the  liquor  with  Jamaica  and  black  peppers, 
mace,  ginger,  a  clove  or  two,  and  some  mustard- 
seed.  When  cold,  bottle  it,  and  tie  a  bladder  over 
the  cork.  In  three  months  boil  it  again  with  some 
fresh  spice,  and  it  will  then  keep  a  twelvemonth. 

Mushroom  Catsup,  another  nvay. 
"TTake  a  stewpan  full  of  the  large  flap  mushrooms, 
that  are  not  wormeaten,  and  the  skins  and  fringe  of 
those  you  have  picked  ;  throw  a  handful  of  salt 
among  them,  and  set  them  by  a  slow  fire.  They 
will  produce  a  great  deal  of  liquor,  which  you  must 
strain  ;  and  put  to  it  four  ounces  of  shalots,  two 
cloves  of  garlick,  a  good  deal  of  pepper,  ginger, 
mace,  cloves,  and  a  few  bayleavcs.  Boil  and  skim 
very  well.    When  cold,  cork  clcse.    In  tvvo  month? 


VINEGARS,  l!J*f.  115 

boll  it  up  again,  with  a  little  fresh  spice,  and  a 
stick  of  horseradish,  and  it  will  then  keep  the  year  ; 
which  mushroom  catsup  rarely  does,  if  not  boiled  a 
isecond  time. 

JValnut  Catsup  of  the  Jinest  sort. 

Boil  a  gallon  of  the  expressed  juice  of  walnuts 
when  they  are  tender,  and  skim  it  well :  then  put 
in  two  pounds  of  anchovies,  bones  and  liquor,  ditto 
of  shalots,  one  ounce  of  cloves,  ditto  of  mace,  ditto 
of  pepper,  and  one  clove  of  garlick.  Let  all  sim- 
mer till  the  shalots  sink  ;  then  put  the  liquor  into 
a  pan  till  cold.  Bottle,  and  divide  the  spice  to 
each.     Cork  closely,  and  tie  a  bladder  over. 

It  will  keep  twenty  years,  and  is  not  good  the 
first.  Be  very  careful  to  express  the  juice  at  home  ; 
for  it  is  rarely  unadulterated,  if  bought. 

Some  people  make  liquor  of  the  outside  shell 
when  the  nut  is  ripe  ;  but  neither  the  flavour  nor 
colour  is  then  so  fine. 

Cockle  Catsup, 

Open  the  cockles  :  scald  them  in  their  own  li- 
quor :  add  a  httle  water  when  the  liquor  settles,  if 
you  have  not  enough :  strain  through  a  cloth,  then 
season  with  every  savory  spice ;  and  if  for  brown 
sauce,  add  port  wine,  anchovies,  and  garlick  ;  if  for 
white,  omit  these,  and  put  a  glass  of  sherry  -wine, 
lemonjuice  and  peel,  mace,  nutmeg,  and  white  pep- 
per.    If  for  brown,  burn  a  b^'t  of  sugar  for  colouring. 

It  is  better  to  have  cockles  enough,  than  to  add 
water  ;  and  they  are  cheap. 


116  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

Mushroom  Powder, 

Wash  half  a  peck  of  large  mushrooms  while 
quite  fresh,  and  free  them  from  grit  and  dirt  with 
flannel.  Scrape  out  the  black  part  clean,  and  do 
not  use  any  that  are  wormeaten  :  put  them  into  a 
stewpan  over  the  fire  without  water,  with  two  large 
onions,  some  cloves,  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  mace, 
and  two  spoonfuls  of  white  pepper,  all  in  powder. 
Simmer  and  shake  them  till  all  the  liquor  be  dried 
up,  but  be  careful  they  do  not  burn.  Lay  them  on 
tins  or  sieves  in  a  slow  oven,  till  they  are  dry 
enough  to  beat  to  powder  ;  then  put  the  powder 
in  small  bottles,  corked  and  tied  closely,  and  keep 
in  a  dry  place. 

A  teaspoonful  will  give  a  very  fine  flavour  to 
any  soup  or  gravy,  or  any  sauce  ;  and  it  is  to  be 
added  just  before  serving,  and  one  boil  given  to  it 
after  it  is  put  in. 

To  dry  Mushrooms, 

Wipe  them  clean  ;  and  of  the  large  take  out  the 
brown,  and  peel  off  the  skin.  Lay  them  on  paper 
to  dry  in  a  cool  oven,  and  keep  them  in  paper  bags 
in  a  dry  place.  When  used,  simmer  them  in  the 
gravy,  and  they  will  swell  to  near  their  former 
aize.  To  simmer  them  in  their  own  liquor  till  it 
dry  up  into  them,  shaking  the  pan,  then  drying  on 
tin  plates,  is  a  good  way,  with  spice  or  not,  as  above, 
before  made  into  powder. 

Tie  down  with  bladder,  and  keep  in  a  dry  place, 
or  in  paper. 


VINEGARS,  id'c.  117 

Sugar  Vinegar, 
To  every  gallon  of  water,  put  two  pounds  of  the 
very  coarsest  sugar  ;  boil  and  skim  thoroughly  ; 
then  put  one  quart  of  cold  water  for  every  gallon 
of  hot.  When  cooli  put  into  it  a  toast  spread  with 
yeast.  Stir  it  nine  days  ;  then  barrel,  and  set  it  in 
a  place  where  the  sun  will  lie  on  it,  with  a  bit  of 
slate  on  the  bunghole. 

When  sufficiently  sour,  it  may  be  bottled  :  or 
may  be  used  from  the  cask,  with  a  wooden  spigot 
and  faucet. 

Gooseberry  Vinegar, 

Boil  spring  water  ;  and  when  cold,  put  to  every 
three  quarts,  a  quart  of  bruised  ripe  gooseberries  in 
a  large  tub.  Let  them  remain  sixty  hours,  stirring 
often  :  then  strain  through  a  hair  bag,  and  to  each 
gallon  of  liquor  add  a  pound  of  the  coarsest  sugar. 
Put  it  into  a  barrel,  and  a  toast  and  yeast,  cover 
the  bunghole  with  a  bit  of  slate,  &c.  as  above.  The 
greater  quantity  of  sugar  and  fruit,  the  stronger 
the  vinegar. 

Wine  Vinegar, 

After  making  raisin  wine,  when  the  fruit  has 
been  strained,  lay  it  on  a  heap  to  heat ;  then  to 
every  hundred  weight  put  fifteen  gallons  of  water. 
Set  the  cask,  and  put  yeast,  &c.  as  before. 

As  vinegar  is  so  necessary  an  article  in  a  faniily, 
and  one  on  which  so  great  a  profit  is  made,  a  barrel 
or  two  might  always  be  kept  preparing,  according 
to  what  suited.     If  the  raisins  of  wine  were  ready, 


118  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

that  kind  might  be   made :  if  a  great  plenty  of 
gooseberries   made  them  cheap,    that  sort  ;  or  if  ' 
neither,  then  the  sugar  vinegar,   so  that  the  cask  ; 
may  not  be  left  empty,  and  grow  musty. 
Kitchen  Pepper. 
Mix  in  the  finest  powder,  one  ounce  of  ginger  ; 
of  cinnamon,  black  pepper,    nutmeg,  and  Jamaica 
pepper,  half  an  ounce  of  each  ;  ten  cloves,  and  six 
ounces  of  salt.    Keep  it  in  a  bottle.    It  is  an  agree- 
able addition  to  any  brown  sauces  or  soups. 

Spice  inpowder,kept  in  small  bottles,close  stopped, 
goes  much  further  than  when  used  whole.  It  must 
be  dried  before  pounded;  and  shouldbe  done  in  quan- 
tities that  may  be  wanted  in  three  or  four  months. 
Nutmeg  need  not  be  done  ;  but  the  others  should  be 
kept  in  separate  bottles,  with  a  little  1  ibel  on  each. 
Browning,  to  colour  and  jlavour  made  dishes. 
Beat  to  powder  four  ounces  of  double  refined  su- 
gar :  put  it  into  a  verj  nice  iron  fryingpan,  with  one 
ounce  of  fine  fresh  butter  :  mix  it  well  over  a  clear 
fire,  and  when  it  begins  to  froth,  hold  it  up  higher. 
When  of  a  very  fine  dark  brown,  pour  in  a  small 
quantity  of  a  pint  of  port  wine,  and  the  whole  by  very 
slow  degrees,  stirring  all  the  time.  Put  to  the  above 
half  an  ounce  of  Jamaica,  and  the  same  of  black  pep- 
per, six  cloves  of  shalots  peeled,  three  blades  of  mace 
bruised,  three  spoonfuls  of  mushroom,  and  the  same 
of  walnut  catsup,  some  salt,  and  the  finely  pared  rind 
of  a  lemon.  Boil  gently  fifteen  minutes  ;  pour  it  into 
a  bason  till  cold ;  take  off  the  scum,and  bottle  for  use. 


VINEGARS,  ^c.  119 

To  make  Sprats  taste  like  Anchovies. 
Salt  them  well,  and  let  the  salt  drain  from  them, 
la  twenty  four  hours  wipe  them  drj^butdo  not  wash 
them.  Mix  four  ounces  of  common  salt,  an  ounce 
of  bay  salt,  an  ounce  of  saltpetre,  a  quarter  of  an 
ounce  of  sal  prunel,  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  cochi- 
neal,all  in  the  finest  powder.  Sprinkle  it  among  three 
quarts  of  the  fish,  and  pack  them  m  two  stone  jars. 
Keep  in  a  cold  place,  fastened  down  with  a  bladder. 
These  are  pleasant  on  bread  and  butter  :  but 
have  the  best  for  sauce. 

To  keep  AncJjovies  ivhen  the  liquor  dries. 
Pour  on  them  beef  brine. 

To  keep  Capers. 
Add  fresh  vinegar,  that  has  been  scalded,  and  be- 
come cold  ;  and  tie  them  close,  to  keep  out  the  air. 
To  make  Mustard. 
Mix  the  best  Durham  flour   of  mustard  by  de- 
grees, with  boiling  water,  to  a  proper  thickness, 
rubbing  it  perfectly  smooth  :  add  a  httle  salt,  and 
keep  it  in  a  small  jar,   close  covered  ;  and  put  only 
as  much  into  the  glass  as  will  be  used  soon  ;  which 
should  be  wiped  daily  round  the  edges. 
Another  <way  for  immediate  use. 
Mix  the  mustard  with  new  milk  by  degrees,  to  be 
quite  smooth,  and  add  a  little  raw  cream.   It  is  much 
softer  this  way,  is  not  bitter,  and  will  keep  well. 

The  patent  mustard  is  by  many  preferred,  and  it 
is  perhaps  as  cheap,  being  always  ready  :  and  if  the 
pots  are  returned,  three  pence  is  allowed  for  each. 


V20  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

A  teaspoonful  of  sugar  to  half  a  pint  of  mustard, 
is  a  great  improvement,  and  softens  it. 

PICKLES. 

India. 

Lay  a  pound  of  white  ginger  in  water  one  night : 
ihen  scrape,  shcd,  and  lay  it  in  salt  in  a  pan  till  the 
other  ingredients  shall  be  ready. 

Peel,  slice,  and  salt  a  pound  of  garlick  three 
days  J  then  put  it  in  the  sun  to  dry.  Salt  and  dry 
long  pepper  in  the  same  way. 

Prepare  various  sorts  of  vegetables  thus  : 

Quarter  small  white  cabbages  :  salt  three  days  : 
squeeze  and  set  them  in  the  sun  to  dry. 

Cauliflowers  cut  in  their  branches  :  take  off  the 
green  from  radishes  ;  cut  celery  in  three  inch 
lengths :  ditto  French  beans  whole,  likewise  the 
.shoots  of  alder,  which  wiD  look  like  bamboo.  Ap- 
ples end  cucumbers,  choose  of  the  least  seedy  sort ; 
9ut  them  in  slices,  or  quarters,  if  not  too  large. 
All  must  be  salted,  drained,  and  dried  in  the  sun, 
except  the  latter  ;  over  which  you  must  pour  boil- 
ing vinegar,  and,  in  twelve  hours,  drain  them,  but 
no  salt  must  be  used. 

Put  tlie  spice,  garlick,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
mustardseed,  and  as  much  vinegar  as  you  think  en- 
ough for  the  quantity  you  are  to  pickle,  into  a  large 
3tone  jar,  and  one  ounte  of  turmeric  to  be  ready 
against  the  vegetables  shall  be  dried.  When  they 
ate  ready,  observe  the  following  directions  :    put 


PICKLES.  121 

some  of  them  into  a  two  quart  stone  jar,  and  pour 
over  them  one  quart  of  boihng  vinegar  :  next  day 
take  out  those  vegetables,  and  when  drained,  put 
them  into  a  large  stockjar,  and  boiling  the  vinegar, 
pour  it  over  some  more  ot  the  vegetables  ;  let  them 
lie  a  night,  and  do  as  above.  Thus  proceed  till 
you  have  cleansed  each  set  from  the  dust  which 
must  inevitably  fall  on  them  by  being  so  long  in  do- 
ing :  then,  to  every  gallon  of  vinegar,  put  two  ounc- 
es of  flour  of  mustard,  mixing,  by  degrees,  with  a 
little  of  it  boihng  hot.  The  whole  of  the  vinegar 
should  have  been  previously  scalded,  but  left  to  be 
cool  before  put  to  the  spice.     Stop  the  ar  tight. 

This  pickle  will  not  be  ready  for  a  year  ;  but 
you  may  make  a  small  jar  for  eating  in  a  fortnight, 
by  only  giving  them  one  scald  in  water,  after  salt- 
ing and  drying  as  above,  but  without  the  prepara- 
tive vinegar ;  then  pour  the  vinegar  that  has  the 
spice  and  garlick,  boiling  hot  over.  If  at  any 
time  it  be  found  that  the  vegetables  have  not  swell- 
ed properly,  boiling  the  pickle,  and  pouring  it  over 
them  hot,  will  plump  them. 

English  Bamhooy  to  Pickle* 

Cut  the  large  young  shoots  of  alder,  which  put 
out  in  the  middle  of  May,  (the  middle  stalks  are 
most  tender)  peel  off  the  outward  peel,  or  skin, 
and  lay  them  in  salt  and  water,  very  strong,  one 
night.  Dry  them  piece  by  piece  in  a  cloth.  Have 
in  readiness  a  pickle  thus  made  and  boiled.  To  s 
quart  of  vinegar  put  an  ounce  of  white  pepper,  an 


122  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

ounce  of  sliced  ginger,  a  little  mace  and  pimento, 
and  pour  boiling  on  the  alder  shoots,  in  a  stone  jar  ; 
stop  close,  and  set  by  the  fire  two  hours,  turning 
the  jar  often,  to  keep  scalding  hot.  If  not  green 
when  cold,  strain  off  the  hquor,  and  pour  boiling 
hot  again  ;  keeping  it  hot  as  before.  Or,  if  you 
intend  to  make  Indian  pickle,  the  above  shoots  are  a 
great  improvement  to  it  :  in  which  case  you  need 
only  pour  boiling  vinegar  and  mustard  seed  on  them  ; 
and  keep  them  till  your  jar  of  pickles  shall  be  ready 
to  receive  them. 

Melon  Mangoes » 

There  is  a  particular  sort  for  this  purpose  which 
the  gardeners  know.  Cut  a  square  small  piece 
out  of  one  side,  and  through  that  take  out  the 
seeds,  and  mix  with  them  mustardseeds  and  shred 
garhck  ;  stuff  the  melon  as  full  as  the  space  will 
allow,  and  replace  the  square  piece.  Bind  it  up 
with  a  small  neck  packthread.  Boil  a  good  quantity 
of  vinegar,  to  allow  for  wasting,  with  peppers,  salt, 
ginger,  and  pour  boiUng  hot  over  the  mangoes  four 
successive  days  ;  the  last,  put  flour  of  mustard, 
and  scraped  horseradish  into  the  vinegar  just  as  it 
boils  up.  Stop  close.  Observe  that  there  is  plenty 
of  vinegar.  All  pickles  are  spoiled  if  not  well 
covered.  Mangoes  should  be  done  soon  after  they 
are  gathered. 

Pickled  Onions. 

In  the  month  of  September,  choose  tlie  small 
white  round  onions  ;  take  off  the  brown  skin  ;  have 


PICKLES.  i2S 

ready  a  very  nice  tin  stewpan  of  boiling  water;  throw 
in  as  many  onions  as  will  cover  the  top.  As  soon  as 
they  look  clear  on  the  outside,  take  them  up  as 
quick  as  possible  with  a  slice,  and  lay  them  on  a  clean 
cloth,  cover  them  close  with  another,  and  scald 
some  more,  and  so  on.  Let  them  lie  to  be  cold,  then 
put  them  in  a  jar,  or  glass  widemouthed  bottle, and 
pour  over  them  the  best  white  wine  vinegar,  just 
hot,  but  not  boiling.  When  cold,  cover  them. 
Cucumbers  and  Onions  sliced. 
Cut  them  in  slices,  and  sprinkle  salt  over;.them  ; 
next  day  drain  them  for  five  or  six  hours,  then  put 
them  into  a  jar,  and  pour  boiling  vinegar  over 
them,  keeping  in  a  warm  place.  The  slices  should 
be  thick.  Repeat  the  boiling  vinegar,  and  atop 
instantly  ;  and  so  on  till  green. 

Pickled  sliced  Cucumbers^  another  ivay. 
Slice  large  unpared  cucumbers,  an  inch  thick  ; 
slice  onions,  and  put  both  into  a  broad  pan  :  strew 
a  good  deal  of  salt  among  them.  In  twenty  four 
hours  drain  them,  and  then  lay  them  on  a  cloth  to 
dry.  Put  them  in  small  stone  jars,  and  pour  in  the 
strongest  plain  vinegar,  boiling  hot  :  stop  the  jars 
close.  Next  day  boil  it  again,  and  pour  over,  and 
thus  thrice  ;  the  last  time  add  v/hole  white  pepp^^r, 
and  a  little  ginger.      Keep  close  covered. 

Toung  Cucumbers. 
Choose  nice   young  gherkins  ;  spread   them  oh 
dishes  ;  salt  them,  and  let  them  lie  a  week  :  drain 

N   2 


124  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

them,  and,  putting  them  in  a  jar,  pour  boiling  vin- 
egar over  them..  Set  them  near  the  fire,  covered 
with  plenty  of  vineleaves.  If  they  do  not  become 
a  tolerable  good  green,  pour  the  vinegar  into  anoth- 
er jar,  set  it  over  the  hot  hearth,  and  when  it  boils, 
pour  it  over  them  again,  covering  with  fresh 
leaves  ;  and  thus  do  till  they  are  of  as  good  a  col- 
our as  you  wish  :  but  as  it  is  now  knovv-n,  that  the 
very  fine  green  pickles  are  made  so  by  using  brass 
or  bell  metal  vessels,  which,  when  vinegar  is  pnt 
into  them,  become  highly  poisonous,  few  people 
like  to  eat  them. 

Note.  Acids  dissolve  the  lead  in  tlie  tinning  of 
saucepans.  Pickles  should  never  be  kept  in  glazed 
jars,  but  in  stone  or  glass  ;  and  vinegar,  or  any 
acids,  should  be  boiled,  by  putting  them  in  jars  of 
stone,  over  a  hot  hearth,  or  in  a  kettle  of  water. 
To  Pickle  Walnuts. 

When  they  will  bear  a  pin  to  go  into  them,  put 
on  them  a  brine  of  salt  and  water  boiled,  and  strong 
enough  to  bear  an  t'g^,,  being  quite  cold  first.  It 
must  be  well  skimmed  while  boiling.  Let  them 
soak  twelve  days,  then  drain  them,  and  pour  over 
them  in  the  jar  a  pickle  of  the  best  white  wine  vin- 
egar, with  a  good  quantity  of  pepper,  pimento, 
ginger,  mace,  cloves,  mustardseed,  and  horserad- 
ish ;  all  boiled  together,  but  cold.  To  every 
hundred  of  walnuts,  put  six  spoonfuls  of  mustardr 
seed,  and  tv/o  or  three  heads  of  garlick,  or  shalot  : 
but  the  latter  is  lesst  strong. 


PICKLES.  l2o 

Thus  done,  they  will  be  good  for  several  years, 
if  kept  close  covered.  The  air  will  soften  them. 
They  will  not  be  fit  to  eat  under  six  months. 

The  pickle  will  serve  as  good  catsup,  when  the 
walnuts  are  used. 

Nasturt'ions,  for  Capers. 

Keep  them  a  few  days  after  they  are  gathered  ; 
then  pour  boihng  vinegar  over  them,  and  when  cold, 
cover.  They  will  not  be  fit  to  eat  for  some  months  ; 
but  are  then  finely  flavoured,  and  by  many  prefer- 
red to  capers. 

An  excellent  tuay  to   Pickle   Mushrooms  ^  to  pr  eseriye 
the  JlavGur, 

Buttons  must  be  rubbed  with  a  bit  of  flannel  and 
salt ;  and  from  the  larger,  take  out  the  red  inside, 
for  when  they  are  black  they  will  not  do,  being  too 
old.  Throw  a  little  salt  over,  and  put  them  into  a 
stewpan,  with  some  mace,  and  pepper.  As  the 
liquor  comes  out,  shake  them  well,  and  keep  them 
over  a  gentle  fire  till  all  of  it  be  dried  into  them 
again  ;  then  put  as  much  vinegar  into  the  pan  as 
will  cover  them  ;  give  it  one  warm,  and  turn  all 
into  a  glass  or  stone  jar.  They  will  keep  two  years, 
and  are  delicious. 

Red  Cabbage. 

Slice  it  into  a  colander,  and  sprinkle  each  layer 
with  salt  ;  let  it  drain  two  days,  then  put  it  into  a 
jar,  and  pour  boiling  vinegar  enough  to  cover,  and 
put  a  few  slices  of  red  beet  root.  Observe  to  choose 
the  purple  red  cabbage.     Those  who  like  the  fla- 


126  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

\*our  of  spice,  will  boil  it  with  the  vinegar.     Cauli- 
flower, cut  in  branches,  and  thrown  in  after  being 
salted,  will  look  of  a  beautiful  red. 
To  stenv  Green  Peas, 

Put  a  quart  of  pease,  a  lettuce,  an  onion,  both 
sliced,  a  bit  of  butter,  pepper,  salt,  and  no  more 
water  than  hangs  round  the  lettuce  from  washing. 
Stew  them  two  hours  very  gently.  When  to  be 
served,  beat  up  an  ^"ggt  <ind  stir  into  them,  or  a  bit 
of  flour  and  butter. 

Some  think  a  teaspoonful  of  white  powdered  su- 
gar is  an  improvement.  Gravy  may  be  added ;  but 
there  will  be  les3  of  the  flavour  of  the  peas.  Chop 
a  bit  of  mint,  and  stew  in  them. 

To  ste-w  Cucumbers* 

Slice  them  thick,  or  halve,  and  divide  them  in 
tv»^o  lengths  :  strew  some  salt  and  pepper,  and  slice 
onions  ;  add  a  little  broth,  or  a  bit  of  butter.  Sim- 
mer very  slowly  ;  and,  before  serving,  if  no  butter 
v/as  in  before,  put  some,  and  a  little  flour ;  or  if  it 
was  in,  only  a  little  flour,  unless  it  wants  richness. 
Another  nvay. 

Slice  the  onions,  and  cut  the  cucumbers  large  ; 
flour  and  fry  them  in  some  butter  :  then  pour  on 
some  good  broth  or  gravy,  and  stew  till  enough. 
Skim  off  the  fat. 

Sfeived  Onions* 

Peel  six  lar?Te  onions  :  fry  them  gently  of  a  fine 
brown,  but  do  not  blacken  ;  then  put  them  in  a 
small  Rtewpan,  with  a  li^^tle  weak   gravy,  pcppec. 


STEWS,  iff..  127 

and  salt  :  cover  and  stew  two  hours  gently.     They 
should  be  lightly  floured  at  first. 
Roast  Onions 

Should  be  done  with   all  the  skins  on.     They 
eat  well  alone,  ysnxh.  salt  only,  and  cold  butter  ;  or 
with  roast  potatoes,  or  with  beetroots. 
Stenued  Celery. 

Wash,  and  strip  off  the  outer  leaves  of  six  heads  ; 
halve,  or  leave  them  whole  accordi/ig  to  their  size  ; 
cut  them  in  four  inch  lengths.  Put  them  in  a 
stewpan  with  a  cup  of  broth,  or  weak  white  gravy. 
Stew  till  tender  ;  then  add  two  spoonfuls  of  cream, 
and  a  little  flour  and  butter,  seasoned  with  pepper, 
salt,  and  nutmeg,  and  simmer  all  together. 
Caul'tflonver  in  white  Sauce. 

Half  boil,  then  cut  into  handsome  pieces,  and 
lay  into  a  stewpan,  with  a  little  broth,  a  bit  of  mace, 
a  little  salt,  and  a  dust  of  white  pepper.  Simmer 
half  an  hour ;  then  put  a  little  cream,  butter,  and 
flour ;  shake  and  simmer  a  few  minutes,  and  serve. 
Spinach 

Should  be   very  carefully  picked  and  washed  ; 
then  boil,  and  squeeze  it  dry.    Put  it  in  a  pan  with 
a  bit  of  butter,  salt,  and  pepper  ;  stew  it,  and  serve. 
French  way. 

Clean  as  before  ;  then  put  it  into  a  stewpan 
without  water,  a  spoonful  of  gravy,  and  a  lump  of 
butter,  salt,  and  pepper,  and  simmer  till  ready.  If 
too  moist,  squeeze  the  gravy  from  it. 


128  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

Stewed  Red  Cabbage. 
Slice  a  small,  or  half  a  large  red  cabbage  :  wash 
it,  and  put  into  a  saucepan,  with  pepper  and  salt, 
no  water  but  what  hangs  about  the  former,  and  a 
piece  of  butter.  Stew  till  quite  tender  ;  then  when 
going  to  serve,  put  to  it  half  a  cup  of  vinegar,  and 
stir  it  over  the  fire. 

Serve  for  cold  meat,  or  with  sausages  on  it. 

Steived  Mushrooms. 
Choose  large  buttons,  or  small  flaps,  before  the 
fringe  be  turned  black  :  pick  each  one  separately, 
and  observe  there  is  not  a  bad  one  ;  rub  the  former 
with  a  flannel  and  salt,  skin  the  latter,  and  take  out 
the  fringe.  Throw  them  into  a  stewpan,  with  a 
little  salt,  a  piece  of  butter,  and  a  few  peppers  ;  set 
them  on  a  slack  part  of  the  fire,  and  shake  them 
some  time.  When  tender,  add  two  large  spoonfuls 
of  cream,  and  a  dust  of  flour. 

Steived  Sorrel  far  Fricandeauy  and  roast  Meat. 
Wash  the  sorrel,  and  put  it  in  a  silver  vessel,  or 
stone  jar,  and  no  more  water  than  hangs  to  the 
leaves.  Simmer  in  the  slowest  way  you  can  ;  and 
when  done  enough,  put  a  bit  of  butter,  and  beat  it 
well. 

Stenved  Carrots. 
Half  boil,  then  nicely  scrape,  and  slice  them  into 
a  stewpan.  Put  to  them  half  a  teacup  of  any  weak 
broth,  some  pepper,  and  salt,  and  half  a  cup  of 
cream  ;  simmer  to  be  very  tender,  but  not  broke, 
before  serving;,   rub  the  least  flour  with  a  bit  ot 


STEWS,  iffc.  129 

butter,  and  warm  up  with  it.    If  approved,  chopped 
parsley  may  be  added  ten  minutes  before  served. 
Steived  old  Peas. 

Steep  them  in  water  all  night,  if  not  fine  boilers, 
otherwise  only  half  an  hour  ;  put  them  with  water 
enough  just  to  cover  them,  and  a  good  bit  of  butter, 
or  a  piece  of  beef  or  pork.  Stew  in  the  most  gentle 
way  till  the  peas  are  soft,  and  the  meat  is  tender. 
If  not  salt  meat,  add  salt,  and  a  little  pepper,  and 
serve  round  the  meat. 

French  Sallad, 

Chop  three  anchovies,  a  shalot,  and  some  parsley 
small ;  put  them  in  a  bowl  with  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  vinegar,  one  of  oil,  a  little  mustard,  and  salt. 
When  well  mixed,  add  by  degrees  some  cold  roast 
or  boiled  meat  in  the  very  thinnest  slices  ;  put  in  a 
few  at  a  time,  they  being  small,  not  exceeding  two 
or  three  inches  long  ;  shake  them  in  the  seasoning, 
and  then  put  more  ;  cover  the  bowl  close  ;  and  let  the 
sallad  be  prepared  three  hours  before  it  be  eaten. 

Garnish  with  parsley,  and  a  few  slices  of  the  fat. 
Lobster  Sallad, 

Make  a  sallad,  and  put  some  of  the  red  part  of 
the  lobster  to  it,  cut ;  which  forms  a  pretty  con- 
trast to  the  white  and  green  of  the  vegetables. 

Do  not  put  much  oil,  as  shellfish  take  off  tb^ 
acidity  of  vinegar. 

Serve  in  a  dish,  not  a  bowl. 

To  boil  Potatoes. 

Set  them  on  a  fire,  unpared,  in  cold  water  ;  IrV 


130  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

them  half  boil,  then  throw  some  salt  in,  and  a  pint 
of  cold  water,  and  let  them  boil  again  till  near  done. 
Pour  off  the  water,  and  put  a  clean  cloth  over 
them,  and  then  the  saucepan  cover,  and  set  them 
by  the  fire  to  steam  till  ready.  Many  use  steamers. 
To  broil  Potatoes, 

Parboil,  then  slice  and  broil  them  ;  or  parboil,  and 

set  them  whole  on   the  gridiron  over  a  very  slow 

fire  ;  and  when  thoroughly  done,  send  up  with  their 

skins  on.      The  latter  is  done  in  many  Irish  families. 

To  roast  Potatoes* 

Half  boil,  take  off  the  thin  peel,  and  roast  them 
of  a  beautiful  brown. 

To  fry  Potatoes, 

Slice  raw  potatoes  after  the  skin  is  removed,  and 
fry  either  in  butter,  or  thin  batter. 
To  mash  Potatoes, 

Boil,  peel,  and  break  to  paste  the  potatoes  ; 
then,  to  two  pounds,  add  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of 
milk,  and  a  little  salt,  with  two  or  three  ounces  of 
butter,  and  stir  all  well  over  the  fire.  Serve  thus, 
or  brown  the  top,  when  placed  on  the  dish  in  a 
form,  with  a  salamander  ;  or  in  scollops. 
To  mash  Parsnips. 

Boil  tender  ;  scrape  them  ;  then  mash  into  a 
stewpan,  with  a  httle  cream,  a  good  piece  cf  butter, 
pepper,  and  salt. 

To  keep  Green  Peas. 

Shell,  and  put  them  into  a  kettle  of  water  when 
it  boils  :  give  them  two  or  three  warms  only,  and 


POTATOES,  &c.  131 

pour  them  into  a  colander.  When  the  water  drains 
off,  turn  them  on  a  dresser  covered  with  cloth  ; 
pour  them  on  another  cloth  to  dry  perfectly  :  then 
bottle  them  in  widemouth  bottles,  leaving  only 
room  to  pour  clarified  mutton  suet  upon  them  an 
inch  thick,  and  for  the  cork  ;  rosin  it  down,  and 
keep  in  a  cellar,  or  in  the  earth,  as  ordered  for 
gooseberries.  Boil  them,  with  a  bit  of  butter,  a 
spoonful  of  sugar,  and  a  bit  of  mint,  till  tender, 
when  to  be  used. 

Another  luay,  as  practised  in  the  Emperor  of  Russsid's 
Kitchen. 

Shell,  scald,  and  dry  as  above.  Put  them  on  tin«? 
or  earthen  dishes  in  a  cool  oven  to  harden,  once  or 
twice.  Keep  them  in  paper  bags  hung  up  in  the 
kitchen.  When  to  be  used,  let  them  lie  an  hour 
in  water  ;  then  set  them  on  with  cold  water,  and  a 
bit  of  butter,  and  boil  till  ready.  Put  a  sprig  of 
dried  mint  to  boil  with  them. 

To  preserve  French  Beans  ^  to  eat  in  the  Winter. 

Pick  them  young,  and  throw  into  a  little  wooden 
)s£.^  a  layer  three  inches  deep  ;  then  sprinkle  with 
salt  ;  put  another  layer  of  beans,  and  do  the  same  as 
high  as  you  think  proper,  alternately  with  salt  ;  but 
do  not  be  too  liberal  of  the  latter  :  lay  a  plate,  or 
cover  of  wood  that  will  go  into  the  keg,  and  put  on 
it  a  heavy  stone.  A  pickle  will  rise  from  the  beans 
and  salt.  If  too  salt,  the  soaking  and  boiHng  will 
not  be  sufficient  to  make  them  pleasant  to  the  taste. 
When  to  be  eaten,  cut,  soak,  and  boil  as  when  fresh, 
o 


132  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

Potatoes  should  be  kept  in  the  earth  that  adheres 
to  them  when  dug  ;  and  preserved  from  frost. 

Carrots,  parsnips,  and  turnips  the  same,  and  put 
in  layers  of  dry  sand. 

Small  close  cabbages  laid  on  a  stone  floor  before 
the  frost  sets  in,  will  blanch  and  be  very  fine,  after 
many  weeks  keeping. 

To  boil  Vegetables  Green, 

Be  sure  the  water  boils  when  you  put  them  in  | 
when  in,  make  them  boil  very  fast.  Do  not  cover, 
but  watch  them  ;  and  if  the  water  has  not  slacken- 
ed, you  may  be  assured  they  are  done  when  they 
are  beginning  to  sink  ;  take  them  out  immediately, 
or  the  colour  will  change. 

Small  Dishes  for  Supper y  ^c. 

Boil  eggs  hard,  cut  them  in  half,  take  out  the 
yelks,  set  the  whites  on  a  dish,  and  fill  with  the  fol- 
lowing se,veral  ingredients  ;  or  put  a  saucer  upside 
down  on  a#plate,  and  place  them  in  quarters  round  : 
in  either  case  as  a  salmagundi.  Chopped  veal, 
yelk  of  eggf  beetroot,  anchovy,  apple,  onion,  ham, 
and  parsley.  A  very  small  bit  of  the  white  of  the 
egg  must  be  cut  off,  to  make  it  stand  on  the  dish 
as  a  cup. 

Orange  Butter, 

Boil  six  eggs  hard  :  beat  the  yelks  in  a  mortar 
with  fine  sugar,  orange  flower  water,  four  ounces 
of  butter,  and  two  ounces  of  almonds  beaten  to  a 
paste.  When  all  is  mixed,  rub  it  through  a  colan- 
der on  a  dish. 


POTATOES,  ^..  133 

Roll  butter  in  different  forms  ;  either  like  a  pine, 
having  made  it  in  the  shape  of  a  cone,  and  marking 
it  with  a  teaspoon  ;  or  rolling  in  a  crimping  form, 
or  working  it  through  a  colander.  Serve  with 
scraped  beef  or  anchovies,  garnished  with  a  wreath 
of  curled  parsley. 

Rusks  buttered,  and  anchovies  split  and  rolled. 

Grated  hung  beef  on  rusks  buttered. 

Grated  cheese  on  ditto,  or  in  a  plate. 

Radishes  placed  round  a  plate,  and  butter  in  the 
middle. 

French  beans  boiled  of  a  beautiful  green,  and 
served  with  a  cream  sauce. 

Jerusalem  artichokes  or  cauliflowers  in  ditto. 

Broccoli  boiled,  served  on  toast,  to  eat  with 
poached  eggs. 

Stewed  vegetables. 

Eggs  poached  on  toast  or  spinach. 

Eggs  buttered  on  toast. 

Custards  in  cups  or  glasses,  with  toast  in  long 
sippets. 

Cold  meat  in  slices  on  a  dish,  or  as  Sandwiches. 

Ham.   Tongue.   Collared  things.   Hunter's  beef. 

Oysters  cold,  scolloped,  stewed,  or  pickled. 

Potted  meat,  birds,  fish,  or  cheese. 

Pickled  or  baked  fish. 

Common  cake.     Baked  or  stewed  fruits. 

Pies  of  meat,  fowl,  or  fruit. 

Potatoes  roasted,  boiled,  scalloped,  mashed,  &c, 

Collared  beef,  veal,  or  pig*s  head. 


134  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

Lobsters.     Crabs.     Prawns. 

Sweetbreads.     Small  birds. 

Forcemeat  for  Patties,  Balls  or 'Stuffing. 

Crumbs  of  bread,  chopped  parsley,  fat  bacon,  (if 
It  has  been  dressed  it  is  the  better,)  suet,  a  bit  of 
fresh  butter,  a  little  anchovy  liquor,  an  egg,  a  bit  of 
onion,  a  very  little  knotted  marjorum,  a  little  pep- 
per, salt,  and  nutmeg. 

This  is  a  much  admired  mixture  ;  but,  according 
to  the  purpose  it  is  for,  any  addition  may  be  made 
to  the  flavour.  Cold  ham  or  gammon,  different 
herbs,  anchovies,  oysters,  Cayenne. 

Note.  To  the  above  should  have  been  added  cold 
veal  or  chicken,  which  is  a  great  improvement. 
Some  like  lemon,  and  lemonthyme  is  a  good  sub- 
stitute. Tarragon  gives  a  French  flavour,  but  a 
very  small  proportion  is  sufficient. 
Fried  Patties. 

Mince  a  bit  of  cold  veal,  and  six  oysters  ;  mi» 
with  a  few  crumbs  of  bread,  salt,  pepper,  nutmeg, 
and  a  very  small  bit  of  lemonpeel ;  add  the  liquor 
of  the  oysters  :  warm  all  in  a  tosser,  but  do  not  boil. 
Let  it  go  cold.  Have  ready  a  good  puff  paste,  roll 
thin,  and  cut  it  in  round  or  square  bits.  Put  some 
of  the  above  between  two  of  them  ;  twist  the  edges 
to  keep  in  the  gravy,  and  fry  them  of  a  fine  brown. 

This  is  a  very  good  thing  ;  and  baked,  is  a  fash- 
ionable dish. 

Oyster  Patties. 

Put  a  fine  puff  paste  into  small  pattypans,  and 


PASTRY.  135 

2  bit  of  bread  in  each  ;  and  against  they  are  baked, 
have  ready  the  following  to  fill  with,  taking  out  the 
bread.  Take  off  the  beards  of  the  oysters  ;  cut  the 
other  parts  in  small  bits  ;  put  them  in  a  small  tos- 
ser,  with  a  grate  of  nutmeg,  the  least  white  pepper, 
and  salt,  a  morsel  of  lemonpeel,  cut  so  small  that 
you  can  scarcely  see  it,  a  little  cream,  and  a  little 
of  the  oyster  liquor.  Simm.er  for  a  few  minutes 
before  you  fill. 

Lobster  Patties. 

Make  with  the  same  seasoning,  a  httle  cream, 
and  the  smallest  bit  of  butter. 

Beef  and  veal  patties,  as  likewise  turkey  and 
chicken,  are  under  the  several  articles  in  the  fore- 
going pages. 

Siveet  Patties, 

Chop  the  meat  of  a  boiled  calf's  foot,  of  which 
you  use  the  liquor  for  jelly,  two  apples,  one  ounce 
of  orange  and  lemonpeel  candied,  and  some  fresh 
peel  and  juice  :  mix  with  them  half  a  nutmeg 
grated,  the  yelk  of  an  ^gg,  a  spoonful  of  brandy, 
and  four  ounces  of  currants  washed  and  dried. 

Bake  in  small  pattypans. 

Patties  resembling  Mlnceples. 

Chop  the  kidney  and  fat  of  cold  veal,  apple,  or- 
ange and  lemonpeel  candied,   and  fresh  currants,  a 
little  wine,  two  or  three  cloves,  a  little  brandy,  and 
a  bit  of  sugar.     Bake  in  pufFpaste  as  before. 
M'mcep'ie. 

Of    scraped  beef    free  from   skin  and    strings, 
o  2 


136  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

weigh  two  pounds  ;  four  pounds  of  suet  picked  anci 
chopped  ;  then  add  six  pounds  of  currants,  nicely 
cleaned  and  perfectly  dry,  three  pounds  of  chopped 
apples,  the  peel  and  juice  of  two  lemons,  a  pint  oi 
sweet  wine,  a  nutmeg,  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of 
cloves,  ditto  mace,  ditto  pimewto,  in  finest  powder  ; 
press  the  whole  into  a  deep  pan  when  well  mixed, 
and  keep  it  covered  in  a  dry  cool  place. 

Half  the  quantity  is  enough,  unless  for  a  very 
large  family. 

Have  citron,  orange,  and  lemonpeel  ready,   and 
put  some  of  each  in  the  pies  when  made. 
MtncepieSi  tvlthout  Meat. 

Of  the  best  apples  six  pounds,  pared,  cored,  and 
minced  ;  of  fresh  suet,  and  raisins  stoned,  each 
three  pounds,  hkewise  minced :  to  these  add  of 
mace  and  cinnamon  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  each,  and 
eight  cloves,  in  finest  powder,  three  pounds  of  the 
finest  powder  sugar,  three  quarters  of  an  ounce  of 
salt,  the  rinds  of  four  and  juice  of  two  lemons,  half 
a  pint  of  port  wine,  and  the  same  of  brandy.  Mix 
well,  and  put  into  a  deep  pan. 

Have  ready  washed  and  dried  four  pounds  of 
currants,  and  add  as  you  make  the  pies,  with  can- 
died fruit. 

Lemon  Mincsples, 

Squeeze  a  large  lemon  :  boil  the  outside  till  tenr 
der  enough  to  beat  to  a  mash  :  add  to  it  three  large 
apples  chopped,  four  ounces  of  suet,  half  a  pound 
of  currants,  and  four  ounces  of  sug^ar.     Put  the 


PASTRY.  J  37 

juice  of  the  lemon  and  candied  fruit,  as  for  other 
pies.  Make  a  short  crust,  and  fill  the  patty  pans 
as  nsual. 

Egg  Minceptes. 

Boil  six  eggs  hard,  and  shred  them  small  :  shred 
double  the  quantity  of  suet  ;  then  put  currants 
Wiashed  and  picked,  one  pound  or  more,  if  the  eggs 
were  large  ;  the  peel  of  one  lemon  shred  very  fine, 
half  the  juice,  six  spoonfuls  of  sweet  wine,  mace, 
nutmeg,  sugar,  a  ver)' little  salt,  orange,  lemon,  and 
citron  candied.  Make  a  light  paste  for  them. 
Savory  Rice. 

Wash  and  pick  some  rice  :  stew  it  very  gently 
in  a  small  quantity  of  veal,  or  rich  mutton  broth, 
with  an  onion,  a  blade  of  mace,  pepper,  and  salt. 
When  swelled,  but  not  boiled  to  mash,  dry  it  on 
the  shallow  end  of  a  sieve  before  the  fire,  and'  either 
serve  it  dry,  or  put  it  in  the  middle  of  a  dish,  and 
pour  the  gravy  round,  having  heated  it. 
Buttered  Rice. 

Prepare  some  rice  as  above  :  drain,  and  put  it 
with  some  new  milk,  enough  just  to  swell  it,  over 
the  fire.  When  tender,  pour  off  the  milk,  and  add 
a  bit  of  butter,  a  little  sugar,  and  pounded  cinna- 
mon. Shake  it,  that  it  do  not  burn,  and  serve. 
Rice  boiled  to  eat  with  Curry  or  roast  Meats, 

Prepare  as  above  ;  then  put  it  into  a  large  quan- 
tity of  water,  boil  it  quick,  throw  in  a  httle  salt,  and 
observe  the  very  moment  when  it  is  swelled  large, 
but  not  too  much  softened  ;  then  drain  off  the  wa» 


i38  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

ter,  and  pour  the  rice  on  the  shallow  end  of  a  sieve  ; 
set  it  before  a  fire,  and  let  it  stay  until  it  separates 
and  dries.     Serve  it  without  sauce  of  any  kind. 
Omlet, 

Make  a  batter  of  eggs  and  milk,  and  a  very  little 
flour ;  put  to  it  chopped  parsley,  onions,  or  chives 
(the  latter  is  best)  ;  or  a  very  small  quantity  of 
shalot,  a  httle  pepper,  salt,  and  a  scrape  or  two  of 
nutmeg.  Make  some  very  nice  dripping  :  boil  in 
a  small  fryingpan,  and  pour  the  above  batter  into 
it.  When  one  side  is  of  a  fine  yellow  brown,  turn 
and  do  the  other.  Some  scraped  lean  ham,  put  in 
at  first,  is  a  very  pleasant  addition.  Three  eggs 
will  make  a  pretty  sized  omlet ;  but  many  cooks 
■will  use  eight  or  ten. 

If  the  taste  be  approved,  a  little  tarragon  gives  a 
fine  flavour.-  A  good  deal  of  parsley  should  be  used. 
Ramakins, 

Scrape  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  Cheshire,  and  ditto 
pf  Gloucester  cheese,  ditto  of  good  fresh  butter  ; 
then  beat  all  in  a  mortar  with  the  yelks  of  four 
eggs,  and  the  inside  of  a  small  French  roll  boiled 
in  cream  till  soft.  Mix  the  paste  then  with  the 
whites  of  the  eggs  previously  beaten,  and  put  into 
small  paper  pans  made  rather  long  than  square,  and 
bake  in  a  Dutch  oven  till  of  a  fine  brown.  They 
should  be  eaten  quite  hot. 

Bacon  Fraise, 

Cut  streaked  bacon  in  thin  slices  an  inch  long  ; 
make  a  batter  of  milk,  well  beaten  eggs,  and  flour  ; 


PASTRY.  1-39 

put  a  little  lard  or  dripping  into  the  pan,  and  when 
hot  pcur  the  batter  in,  and  cover  it  with  a  dish. 
When  fit  to  turn,  put  in  the  bacon,  and  turn  it  very 
carefully,  that  the  bacon  does  not  touch  the  pan. 
Ricb  Puff  paste. 

Weigh  an  equal  quantity  of  butter  v/ith  as  much 
fine  flour  as  you  judge  necessary  ;  mix  a  httle  of 
the  former  with  the  latter,  and  wet  it  with  as  little 
water  as  will  make  into  a  stiff  paste.  Roll  it  out, 
and  put  all  the  butter  over  it  in  slices  ;  turn  in 
the  ends,  and  rool  it  thin  ;  do  this  twice,  and  touch 
it  no  more  than  can  be  avoided.  The  butter  may 
be  added  at  twice  ;  and  to  those  who  are  not  accus- 
tomed to   make  paste,   it  may  be  better  to  do  so. 

A  quicker  oven  than  for  short  crust. 
i,  f '  A  less  rich  Paste. 

"Weigh  a  pound  of  flour,  and  a  quarter  of  a  pound 
of  butter  ;  rub  them  together,  and  mix  into  a  paste 
with  a  little  water,  and  an  egg  well  beaten  ;  of  the 
former  as  httle  as  will  suffice,  or  the  paste  will  be 
tough.      Roll,  and  fold  it  three  or  four  times. 

Rub  extremely  fine,  in  one  pound  of  dried  flour, 
six  ounces  of  butter,  and  a  spoonful  of  white  sugar. 
Work  up  the  whole  into  a  stiff  paste,  with  as  little 
hot  water  as  possible. 

German  Puffs  another  'way. 

Boil  two  ounces  of  fresh  butter  in  half  a  pint  of 
cream  ;  stir  until  cold  ;  then  beat  two  eggs,  stram 
them  into  the  cream,  and  mix  that  by  degrees  into 
two  table  spoonfuls  of  flour  :  butter  teacups,   and 


140  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

into  each  put  three  spoonfuls  of  the  batter  ;  bake 
them  half  an  hour,  and  serve  the  moment  they  arc 
to  be  eaten,  turned  out  of  the  cups,  with  sauce 
of  melted  butter,  sugar,  and  the  juice  of  a  lemon. 
Excellent  short  Crust, 

Make  two  ounces  of  white  sugar,  pounded  and 
sifted,  quite  dry  ;  then  mix  it  with  a  pound  of  flour 
well  dried  ;  rub  into  it  three  ounces  of  butter  so  fine 
as  not  to  be  seen  :  into  some  cream  put  the  yelks 
of  two  eggs  beaten,  and  mix  the  above  into  a  smooth 
paste  ;  roll  it  thin,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 
Another, 

Mix  with  a  pound  of  fine  flour,  dried,  an  ounce  of 

su|;ar  pounded  and  sifted  ;  then  crumble  three  oun» 

ces  of  butter  in  it,  till  it  looks  all  hke  flour,  and  with 

a  gill  of  boiling  cream,  work  it  up  to  a  fine  paste. 

Light  Paste  for  Tarts  and  Cheesecakes, 

Beat  the  white  of  an  ^^g  to  a  strong  froth  ;  then 
mix  it  with  as  much  water  as  will  make  three  quar- 
ters of  a  pound  of  fine  flour  into  a  very  stiff  paste  : 
roll  it  very  thin,  then  lay  the  third  part  of  half  a 
pound  of  butter  upon  it  in  little  bits  :  dredge  it  with 
some  flour,  left  out  at  first,  and  roll  it  up  tight. 
Roll  it  out  again,  aud  put  the  same  proportion  of 
butter  ;  and  so  proceed  till  all  be  worked  up. 
A  very  Jine  Crust  for  Orange  Cheesecakes  or  Sweet-* 
meats  J  ivhen  to  be  particularly  nice. 

Dry  a  pound  of  the  finest  flour,  and  mix  with  it 
three  ounces  of  refined  sugar ;  then  work  half  a 
pound  of  butter  with  your  hand  till  it  comes  to  a 


PASTRY.  141 

froth.  Put  the  flour  into  it  by  degrees  ;  and  work 
into  it,  well  beaten,  and  strained,  the  yelks  of  three 
and  whites  of  two  eggs.  If  too  limber,  put  some 
flour  and  sugar  to  make  ht  to  roll.  Line  your  patty- 
pans and  fill.  A  little  above  fifteen  minutes  will 
bake  them.  Against  they  come  out,  have  ready 
some  refined  sugar,  beat  up  with  the  white  of  an 
egg,  as  thick  as  you  can  :  ice  them  all  over :  set 
them  in  the  oven  to  harden,  and  serve  cold.  Use 
fresh  butter. 

Salt  butter  will  make  a  very  fine  flaky  crust ;  but  if 
for  mincepies,  or  any  sweet  thing,  should  be  washed. 
"i^  Raised  Crust  for  Custards  or  Fruit, 

^  Put  four  ounces  of  butter  into  a  saucepan  with 
water ;  and  when  it  boils,  pour  it  into  as  much 
flour  as  you  choose,  knead  and  beat  it  till  smooth  ; 
cover  it  as  on  the  other  side.  Raise  it ;  and  if  for 
custard,  put  a  paper  within  to  keep  out  the  sides 
till  half  done,  then  fill  with  a  cold  mixture  of  milk, 
egg,  sugar,  and  a  little  peachwater,  lemonpeel,  or 
nutmeg.  By  cold  is  meant  that  the  egg  is  not  to 
be  vv'armed,  but  the  milk  should  be  v/armed  by  it- 
self ;  not  to  spoil  the  crust. 

Raised  Crust  for  Mcatpies  or  Foivlsi  life. 
Boil  water  with  a  little  fine  lard,   and  an  equal 

quantity  of  fresh  dripping,   or  of  butter,   but  not 

much  of  either.  While  hot,  mix  this  with  as  much 
flour  as  you  will  want,  making  the  paste  as  stiff  as 
you  can  to  be  smooth,  which  you  will  make  it  by 

good  kneading,  and  beating  with  the  roUing  pin. 


142  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

When  quite  smooth,  put  it  in  a  lump  into  a  cloth, 
or  under  a  pan  to  soak,  till  near  cold. 

Those  who  have  not  a  good  hand  at  raising  crust, 
may  do  thus  :  roll  the  paste  of  a  proper  thickness, 
and  cut  out  the  top  and  bottom  of  the  pie,  then  a 
long  piece  for  the  sides.  Cement  the  bottom  to  the 
sides  with  egg,  bringing  the  former  rather  further 
out,  and  pinching  both  together  ;  put  egg  between 
the  edges  af  the  paste  to  make  it  adhere  at  the 
sides.  Fill  your  pie,  and  put  on  the  cover,  and 
pinch  it  and  the  side  crust  together.  The  same 
mode  of  uniting  the  paste  is  to  be  observed,  if  the 
sides  are  pressed  into  a  tin  form,  in  which  the  paste 
must  be  baked,  after  it  shall  be  filled  and  covered  ; 
but  in  the  latter  case  the  tin  should  be  buttered, 
and  carefully  taken  off  when  done  enough  ;  and  as 
the  form  usually  makes  the  sides  of  a  lighter  col- 
our than  is  proper,  the  paste  should  be  put  into  the 
oven  again  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour.  With  a  feath- 
er put  egg  over  at  first. 

Crust  for  Venison   Pastry, 
To  a  quarter  of  a  peck  of  fine  flour  use  two  pounds 
and  a  half  of  butter,  and  four  eggs  ;  mix  into  paste 
v/ith  warm  water,  and  work  it  smooth  and  to  a  good 
consistence.      Put  a  paste  round  the  inside,  but  not 
to  the  bottom  of  the  dish,  and  let  the  cover  be  pret- 
ty thick,  to  bear  the  long  continuance  in  the  oven. 
Rice  Pastry. 
Boil  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  ground  rice  in  the 
smallest  quantity  of  water :  strain  from  it  all   the 


PUDDINGS.  143 

moisture  as  well  as  you  can.  Beat  it  in  a  mortar, 
with  half  an  ounce  of  butter,  and  one  egg  well  beat- 
en, and  it  will  make  an  excellent  paste  for  tarts,  &c. 
Potatoe  Pastry, 
Pound  boiled  potatoes  very  fine  ;  and  add,  while 
warm,  a  sufficiency  of  butter  to  make  the  mash 
hold  together.  Or  you  may  mix  with  it  an  egg  ; 
then  before  it  gets  cold,  flour  the  board  pretty  well 
to  prevent  it  from  sticking,  and  roll  it  to  the  thick- 
ness wanted.  If  it  is  become  quite  cold  before  it 
be  put  on  the  dish,  it  will  be  apt  to  crack, 

PUDDINGS. 

Almond  Puddings, 

Beat  half  a  pound  of  sv.-eet  and  a  few  bitter  al- 
monds, with  a  spoonful  of  water  ;  then  m.ix  four 
ounces  of  butter,  four  eggs,  two  spoonfuls  of  cream 
warm  with  the  butter,  one  of  brandy,  a  little  nut- 
meg and  sugar  to  taste.  Butter  some  cups,  half 
Wl,  and  bake  the  puddings. 

Serve  with  butter,  wine,  and  sugar. 
Sago  Pudding, 

Boil  a  pint  and  a  half  of  new  milk  with  four 
spooifuls  of  sago,  nicely  washed  and  picked,  lem- 
onpeel,  cinnamon,  and  nutmeg.  Sweeten  to  taste  : 
then  mix  four  eggs,  put  a  paste  round  the  dish, 
av.d  bake  slowly. 

Bread  and  Butter  Pudding, 

Slice  bread,  spread  with  butter,  and  lay  it  in  a 
dish  with  cuiTants  between  each  laver,  and  sliced 


144  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

citron,  orange  or  lemon,  if  to  be  very  nice.  Pour 
over  an  unboiled  custard  of  milk,  two  or  three 
eggs,  a  few  pimentos,  and  a  very  little  ratafia,  two 
hours  at  least  before  it  is  to  be  baked  ;  and  lade  it 
over  and  over  to  soak  the  bread. 

A  paste  round  the  edge  makes  all  puddings  look 
better,  but  is  not  necessary. 

Orange  Pudding. 
Grate  the  rind  of  a  Seville  orange  ;  put  to  it  six 
ounces  of  fresh  butter,  six  or  eight  ounces  of  lump 
sugar  pounded  :  beat  them  all  in  a  marble  mortar, 
and  add  as  you  do  it  the  whole  of  eight  eggs  well 
beaten  and  strained  :  scrape  a  raw  apple,  and  mix 
with  the  rest ;  put  a  paste  at  the  bottom  and  sides 
of  the  dish,  and,  over  the  orange  mixture,  put  cross- 
bars of  paste.     Half  an  hour  will  bake  it. 
Another  Orange  Pudding. 
Mix  of  the  orange  paste  hereafter  directed  two 
full  spoons,  with  six  eggs,  four  of  sugar,  four  ounces 
of  batter  wai-m,  and  put  into  a  shallow  dish,  with  a 
paste  lining.     Bake  twenty  minutes. 
Another, 
Rather  more  than  two  table  spoonfuls  of  the 
vi.ange  paste,  mixed  with  six  eggs,  four  ounces  of 
sugar,  and  four  ounces  of  butter,  melted,  will  make 
a  good  sized  pudding,  with  a  paste  at  the  bottom 
of  the  dish.     Bake  twenty  minutes. 

An  excellent  Lemon  Pudding. 
Beat  the  yelks  of  four  eggs  ;  add  four  ounces  of 
white  sugar,  the  rind  of  a  lemon  being  rubbed  with 


PUDDINGS.  145 

some  lumps  of  it  to  take  the  essence  :  then  peel, 
and  beat  it  in  a  mortar  with  the  juice  of  a  large 
lemon,  and  mix  all  with  four  or  five  ounces  of  but- 
ter warmed.  Put  a  crust  into  a  shallow  dish  ;  nick 
the  edges,  and  put  the  above  into  it.  When  serv- 
ed, turn  the  pudding  out  of  the  dish. 

A  veryjine  Amber  Pudding, 

Put  a  pound  of  butter  into  a  saucepan,  with  three 
quarters  of  a  pound  of  loaf  sugar,  finely  powdered  ; 
melt  the  butter  and  mix  well  with  it :  then  add  the 
yelks  of  fifteen  eggs  well  beaten,  and  as  much  fresh 
candied  orange,  as  will  add  colour  and  flavour  to  it, 
being  first  beaten  to  a  fine  paste.  Line  the  dish 
with  paste  for  turning  out ;  and  when  filled  with 
the  above,  lay  a  crust  over,  as  you  would  a  pie, 
and  bake  it  in  a  slow  oven. 

It  is  as  good  cold  as  hot. 

Baked  Apple  Pudding. 

Pare  and  quarter  four  large  apples  ;  boil  them 
tender,  with  the  rind  of  a  lemon,  in  so  little  water 
that  when  done,  none  may  remain  :  beat  them  quite 
fine  in  a  mortar  :  add  the  crumbs  of  a  small  roll, 
four  ounces  of  butter  melted,  the  yelks  of  five  and 
whites  of  three  eggs,  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  and  su- 
gar to  taste.  Beat  all  together,  and  lay  it  in  a  dish 
Avith  paste  to  turn  out. 

Oatmeal  Pudding. 

Pour  a  quart  of  boiling  milk  over  a  pint  of  the 
best^n^  oatmeal  ;  let  it  soak  all  night.  Next  day 
beat  two  eggs,  and  mix  a  little  salt :  butter  a  bason 


J46  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

that  will  just  hold  it  :  cover  it  tight  with  a  floured 
cloth,  and  boil  it  an  hour  and  a  half.  Eat  it  with 
cold  butter  and  salt. 

When  cold,  slice  and  toast  it,  and  eat  it  as  oat- 
cake buttered. 

Dutch  Pudding  or  Souster. 

Melt  one  pound  of  butter  in  half  a  pint  of  milk  ; 
mix  it  into  two  pounds  of  flour,  eight  eggs,  four 
spoonfuls  of  yeast :  add  one  pound  of  currants,  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  sugar  beaten  and  sifted.         ir?,- 

This  is  a  very  good  pudding  hot ;  and  equally  so 
as  a  cake  when  cold.  If  for  the  latter,  carraways 
may  be  used  instead  of  currants.  An  hour  will 
bake  it  in  a  quick  oven. 

J  Dutch  Rice  Pudding. 

Soak  four  ounces  of  rice  in  warm  water  half  an 
hour  :  drain  the  latter  from  it,  and  throw  it  into  a 
atewpan,  with  half  a  pint  of  milk,  half  a  stick  of 
cinnamon,  and  simmer  till  tender.  When  cold, 
add  four  whole  eggs  well  beaten,  two  ounces  of 
butter  melted  in  a  teacupful  of  cream  ;  and  put 
three  ounces  of  sugar,  a  quarter  of  a  nutm.eg,  and 
a  good  piece  of  lemonpeel. 

Put  a  light  puff  paste  into  a  mould  or  dish,  or 
grated  tops  and  bottoms,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 
Light,  or  German  Puddings. 

Melt  three  ounces  of  butter  in  a  pint  of  cream  ; 
let  it  stand  till  nearly  cold,  then  mix  two  ounces  of 
fine  flour,  and  two  ounces  of  sugar,  four  yelks  and 
two  whites  of  eggs,  and  a  little  rose  or  orange 


PUDDINGS.  W7 

flower  water.  Bake  in  little  cups,  buttered,  half 
an  hour.  They  should  be  served  the  moment  they 
are  done,  and  only  when  going  to  be  eaten,  or  they 
will  not  be  light. 

Turn  out  of  the  cups,  and  serve  with  white  wine 
and  sugar. 

Lilfle  Bread  Puddings. 

Steep  the  crumbs  of  a  penny  loaf  in  about  a  pint 
of  warm  milk  :  when  soaked,  beat  six  eggs,  whites 
and  yelks,  and  mix  with  the  bread,  and  two  ounces 
of  butter  warmed,  sugar,  orange  flower  water,  a 
spoonful  of  brandy,  a  Httle  nutmeg,  and  a  teacupful 
of  cream.  Beat  all  well,  and  bake  in  teacups  but- 
tered. If  currants  are  chosen,  a  quarter  of  a  pound 
is  sufficient  ;  if  not,  they  are  good  without ;  or  you 
may  put  orange  or  lemon  candy.  Serve  with  pud- 
ding sauce. 

Puddings  in  haste. 

Shred  suet,  and  put  with  grated  bread,  a  few  cur- 
rants, the  yelks  of  four  eggs,  and  the  whites  of  two, 
some  grated  lemonpeel,  and  ginger.  Mix,  and  make 
into  little  balls  about  the  size  and  shape  of  an  eggy 
with  a  Httle  flour.  Have  ready  a  skillet  of  boiling 
water,  and  throw  them  in.  Twenty  minutes  will 
boil  them  ;  but  they  will  rise  to  the  top  when  done. 

Pudding  sauce. 
V  Netu  College  Puddings. 

■  Grate  the  crumbs  of  a  twopenny  loaf,  shred  suet 
eight  ounces,  and  mix  with  eight  ounces  of  cur- 
rants, one  of  citron  mixed  fine,  one  of  orange,  a 
p  2 


148  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

handful  of  sugar,  half  a  nutmeg,  three  eggs  beateii, 
yelk  and  white  separately.  Mix,  and  make  into> 
the  size  and  shape  of  a  gooseegg.  Put  half  a 
pound  of  butter  into  a  fryingpan  ;  and  when  melted, 
and  quite  hot,  stew  them  gently  in  it  over  a  stove. 
Turn  them  two  or  three  times  till  of  a  fine  light 
brown.     Mix  a  glass  of  brandy  with  the  batter. 

Serve  with  pudding  sauce. 

Oxford  Dumplings. 

Of  grated  bread  two  ounces,  currants,  and  shred 
3uet  four  ounces  each,  two  large  spoonfuls  of  flour, 
a  great  deal  of  grated  lemonpeel,  a  bit  of  sugar,  and 
a  little  pimento  in  fine  powder.  Mix  with  two  eggs 
and  a  little  milk  into  five  dumplings,  and  fry  of  a 
fine  yellow  brown. 

Serve  with  sweet  sauce. 

Brown  Bread  Pudding. 

Half  a  pound  of  stale  brown  bread  grated,  ditto 
of  currants,  ditto  of  shred  suet,  sugar,  and  nutmeg* 
Mix  with  four  eggs,  a  spoonful  of  brandy,  and  two 
spoonfuls  of  cream.  Boil,  in  a  cloth  or  bason  that 
exactly  holds  it,  three  or  four  hours. 
Boiled  Bread  Pudding, 

Grate  with  bread,  pour  bqiling  milk  over  it,  and 
cover  close.  When  soaked  an  hour  or  two,  beat  it 
fine,  and  mix  with  it  two  or  three  eggs,  well  beaten. 
Put  it  into  a  bason  that  will  just  hold  it ;  tie  a 
floured  cloth  over  it,  and  put  it  into  boiling  water. 
Send  it  up  with  melted  butter  poured  over. 

Irmay  be  eaten  with  salt  or  sugar. 


PUDDINGS.  U9 

Another,  and  richer  Bread  Pudding. 

On  half  a  pint  of  crumbs  of  bread,  pour  half  a 
pint  of  scalding  milk  ;  cover  for  an  hour.  Beat  up 
four  eggs,  and,  when  strained,  add  to  the  bread, 
with  a  teaspoonful  of  fiour,  an  ounce  of  butter,  two 
ounces  of  sugar,  half  a  pound  of  currants,  an  ounce 
of  almonds  beaten  with  orange  flower  water,  half  an 
ounce  of  orange,  ditto  lemon,  ditto  citron.  Butter 
a  bason  that  will  exactly  hold  it  ;  flour  the  cloth, 
and  tie  tight  over,  and  boil  one  hour. 
Batter  Pudding. 

Rub  three  spoonfuls  of  fine  flour  extremely  smooth 
by  degrees  into  a  pint  of  milk ;  sim.mer  till  it  thickens ; 
stir  in  two  ounces  of  butter  ;  set  it  to  cool ;  then  add 
the  yelks  of  three  eggs.  Flour  a  cloth  that  has  been 
wet,  or  butter  a  bason,  and  put  the  batter  into  it  ;  tie 
it  tight,  and  plunge  it  into  boiling  water,  the  bottom 
upwards.  Boil  it  an  hour  and  a  half,  and  serve  with 
plain  butter.  If  approved,  a  little  ginger,  nutmeg, 
and  lemonpeel  may  be  added,  and  sweet  sauce. 
Batter  Pudding  ivith  Meat. 

Make  a  batter  with  fiour,  milk,  and  eggs  :  pour 
a  little  into  the  bottom  of  a  pudding  dish  ;  then 
put  seasoned  meat  of  any  kind  into  it,  and  a  little 
sb.red  onion  ;  pour  the  remainder  of  the  batter  over, 
and  bake  in  a  slow  oven. 

Some  Hke  a  loin  of  mutton  baked  in  batter,  be- 
ing first  cleared  of  most  of  the  fat. 
Rice  small  Puddings, 

Wash  two  large  spoonfuls  of  rice,  and  simmer  it 


150  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

with  half  a  pint  of  milk  till  thick.  Then  put  with 
it  the  size  of  an  egg  of  butter,  and  near  half  a  pint 
of  thick  cream,  and  give  it  one  boil.  When  cool, 
mix  four  yelks  and  two  whites  of  eggs  well  beaten  ; 
sweeten  to  taste,  and  add  nutmeg,  lemonpeel  grated 
fine,  and  a  little  cinnamon  powdered. 

Butter  Httle  cups,  and  fill  three  parts  full,  put- 
ting at  bottom  some  orange  or  citron.  Bake  three 
quarters  of  an  hour  in  a  slowish  oven.  Serve  the 
moment  before  to  be  eaten,  with  sweet  sauce  in  the 
dish,  or  a  boat. 

Plain  Rice  Pudding, 

Wash  and  pick  some  rice  ;  throw  among  it  some 
pimento  finely  pounded,  but  not  much  ;  tie  the  rice 
in  a  cloth,  and  leave  plenty  of  room  for  it  to  swell. 
Boil  it  in  a  quantity  of  water  for  an  hour  or  two. 
When  done,  eat  it  with  butter  and  sugar,  or  milk. 
Put  lemonpeel  if  you  please. 

It  is  very  good  without  spice,  and  eaten  with  salt 
and  butter. 

Rice  Pudding  ivith  Fruit. 

Swell  the  rice  with  a  very  little  milk  over  the  fire  ; 
then  mix  fruit  of  any  kind  with  it,  (currants  ;  goose- 
berries scalded  ;  pared  and  quartered  apples  ;  rai- 
sins, or  black  currants  ;)  with  one  egg  into  the  rice, 
to  bind  it.  Boil  it  well,  and  serve  with  sugar. 
Baked  Rice  Pudding. 

Swell  rice  as  above  ;  then  add  some  more  milk, 
an  egg^  sugar,  allspice  and  lemonpeel.  Bake  in  a 
deep  dish. 


PUDDINGS.  151 

Another,  for  the  Family. 

Put  into  a  very  deep  pan  half  a  pound  of  rice, 
washed  and  picked,  two  ounces  of  butter,  four 
ounces  of  sugar,  a  few  allspice  pounded,  and  two 
quarts  of  milk.  Less  butter  will  do,  or  some  suet. 
Bake  in  a  slow  oven. 

Note.  Eggs  in  rice  pudding,  if  made  of  whole 
rice,  causes  the  milk  to  turn  to  whey,  if  not  boiled 
first,  and  then  mixed  cool. 

A  George  Pudding. 

Boil  very  tender  a  handful  of  whole  rice  in  a  small 
quantity  of  milk,  with  a  large  piece  of  lemonpeel. 
Let  it  drain  ;  then  mix  with  it  a  dozen  of  good  sized 
apples,  boiled  to  pulp,  and  as  dry  as  possible.  Add  a 
glass  of  white  wine,  the  yelks  of  five  eggs,  and  two 
ounces  of  orange  and  citron  cut  thin  ;  make  it  pretty 
sweet.  Line  a  mould  or  bason  with  a  very  good 
paste  :  beat  the  five  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  very 
strong  froth,  and  mix  with  the  other  ingredients  :  fill 
the  mould,  and  bake  it  of  a  fine  brown  colour.  Serve 
it  with  the  bottom  upward,  with  the  following  sauce: 
two  glasses  of  wine,  a  spoonful  of  sugar,  the  yelk  of 
two  eggs,  and  a  bit  of  butter  aslarge  as  a  walnut ;  sim- 
mer without  boiling,  and  pour  to  and  from  the  sauce- 
pan, till  of  a  proper  thickness,  and  put  in  the  dish. 
Rice  Piecrust. 

Clean,  and  put  some  rice,  with  an  onion  and  a  lit- 
tle water  and  milk,  or  milk  only,  into  a  saucepan, 
and  simmer  till  it  swell.  Put  seasoned  chops  into 
a  dish,  and  cover  it  with  the  rice. 


152  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

Rabbits  fricasseed,  and  covered  thus,  are  very  good. 
Potatoe  Pudding  <ivith  Meat. 

Boil  them  till  fit  to  mash  :  rub  through  a  colan- 
der and  make  into  a  thick  batter,  with  milk  and 
two  eggs.  Lay  some  seasoned  steaks  in  a  dish, 
then  some  batter  ;  and  over  the  last  layer  pour  the 
remainder  of  the  batter.  Bake  a  fine  brown. 
Steak,  or  Kidney  Pudding. 

If  kidney,  split,  and  soak  it,  and  season  that  or  the , 
meat.     Make  a  paste  of  suet,  flour,  and  milk  ;  roll 
it,  and  line  a  bason  with  some ;  put  the  kidney  or 
steaks  in,  cover  with  paste,  and  pinch  round  the  edge. 
Cover  with  a  cloth,  and  boil  a  considerable  time. 
Suet  Puddings. 

Shred  a  pound  of  suet ;  mix  with  a  pound  and 
a  quarter  of  flour,  three  eggs  beaten  separately,  a 
little  salt,  and  as  little  milk  as  will  make  it.  Boil 
five  hours.  It  eats  well  next  day,  cut  in  slices  and 
broiled. 

Suet  Dumplings. 

Make  as  above,  and  drop  into  boiling  water,  or 
into  the  boiling  of  beef  ;  or  you  may  boil  in  a  cloth. 
Apple,  Currant,  or  Damson  Dumplings,  or  Pudding. 

Make  as  above,  and  loin  a  bason  with  the  paste 
tolerably  thin  :  fill  with  the  fruit,  and  cover  it :  tie 
a  cloth  over  tight,  and  boil  till  the  fruit  shall  be 
done  enough. 

Snoivhall. 

Svirell  rice  in  milk  ;  strain  it  off,  and  having 
pared  and  cored  apples,  put  the  rice  round  them, 


PUDDINGS.  153 

I  tying  each  up  in  a  cloth.     Put  a  bit  of  Iemonpe«I, 
I  a  clove,  or  cinnamon  in  each,  and  boil  them  well. 
J  Hunter^ s  Pudding. 

1       Mix,  of  suet,  flour,  currants,  and  raisins  stoned 
[  and  a  little  cut,  a  pound  each,  the  rind  of  lemon, 
I  shred  as  fine  as  possible,  six  Jamaica  peppers  in  fine 
j  powder,  four  eggs,  a  glass  of  brandy,  a  little  salt, 
and  as  little  milk  as  will  make  it  of  a  proper  con- 
sistence.     Boil  it   in  a  floured   cloth,  or  a  melon 
mould,  eight  or  nine  hours.    Serve  with  sweet  sauce. 
Add  sometimes  a  spoonful  of  peachwater. 

This  pudding  will  keep,  after  it  is  boiled,  six 
months,  if  kept  tied  up  in  the  same  cloth,  and  hung 
up,  folded  in  a  sheet  of  cap  paper  to  preserve  it  from 
dust,  being  first  cold.  When  to  be  used,  it  must 
boil  a  full  hour. 

Common  Plumb  Pudding, 
The  same  proportions  of  flour  and  suet,  and  half 
the  quantity  of  fruit,  with  spice,  lemon,  a  glass  of 
wine,  or  not,  and  one  egg  and  milk,  will  make  an 
excellent  pudding,  if  long  boiled. 
Custard  Pudding, 
Mix  by  degrees  a  pint  of  good  milk  with  a  large 
spoonful  of  flour,  the  yelks  of  five  eggs,  some  orange 
flower  water,  and  a  little  pounded  cinnamon.     But> 
ter  a  bason  that  will  exactly  hold  it :  pour  the  batter 
in,  and  tie  a  floured  cloth  over  it.     Put  it  in  boiling 
water,  and  turn  it  about  a  few  minutes  to  prevent  the 
^%Z  g^^"g  ^°  *^"^  ^^^^*     Half  an  hour  will  boil  it. 
Put  currantjelly  on  it,  and  serve  with  sweet  sauce. 


154  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

A  Rich  Rice  Pudding, 

Boil  half  a  pound  of  rice  in  water,  with  a  little 
bit  of  salt,  till  quite  tender  :  drain  it  dry.  Mix  it 
with  the  yelks  and  whites  of  four  eggs,  a  quarter  of 
a  pint  of  cream,  with  two  ounces  of  fresh  butter 
melted  in  the  latter,  four  ounces  of  beefsuet,  or 
marrow,  or  vealsuet  taken  from  a  fillet  of  veal,  finely 
shred,  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  currants,  two 
spoonfuls  of  brandy,  one  of  peachwater,  or  ratafia, 
nutmeg,  and  grated  lemonpeel.  When  well  mixed, 
put  a  paste  round  the  edge,  and  fill  the  dish.  Slices 
of  candied  orange,  lemon,  and  citron,  if  approved. 
Bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Millet  Pudding. 

Wash  three  spoonfuls  of  the  seed  ;  put  it  into 
the  dish,  with  a  crust  round  the  edges  :  pour  over 
it  as  much  new  milk  as  shall  nearly  fill  the  dish, 
two  ounces  of  butter  warmed  with  it,  sugar,  shred 
lemon,  and  a  little  scrape  of  ginger  and  nutmeg. 
As  you  put  it  in  the  oven,  stir  in  two  eggs  beaten  ; 
and  a  spoonful  of  shred  suet. 

An  excellent  plain  Potatoe  Pudding, 

Take  eight  ounces  of  boiled  potatoes,  two  ounces 
of  butter,  the  yelks  and  whites  of  two  eggs,  a  quar- 
ter of  a  pint  of  cream,  one  spoonful  of  white  wine, 
a  morsel  of  salt,  the  juice  aad  rind  of  a  lemor. 
Beat  all  to  a  froth  :  sugar  to  taste.  A  crust  or  not:, 
as  you  like.  Bake  it.  If  wanted  richer,  put  three 
ounces  more  butter,  sweetmeats  and  almonds,  and 
another  e^g. 


PUDDINGS.  155 

Carrot  Pudding. 

Beat  a  large  carrot  tender :  bruise  it  well,  and 
mix  with  it  a  tablespoonful  of  biscuit  beaten  to 
powder,  or  four  Naples  biscuit,  four  yelks  and  two 
whites  of  eggs,  a  pint  of  scalded  cream,  some  rose, 
or  orange  flower  water,  a  little  ratafia,  nutmeg,  and 
sugar.  If  you  have  no  scalded  cream,  raw  will  do, 
if  very  thick.  Put  a  httle  rim  of  paste  rouud  the 
dish,  and  bake  it.  Put  orange,  lemon  or  citron, 
cut  in  good  sized  bits. 

^n  excellent  Apricot  Pudding, 

Halve  twelve  large  apricots  :  give  them  a  scald 
till  they  are  soft.  Mean  time  pour  on  the  grated 
crumbs  of  a  penny  loaf,  a  pint  of  boiling  cream  ; 
when  half  cold,  four  ounces  of  sugar,  the  yelks  of 
four  beaten  eggs,  and  a  glass  of  white  wine.  Pound 
the  apricots  in  a  mortar,  with  some  or  all  of  the 
kernels  ;  mix  then  the  fruit  and  other  ingredients 
together  :  put  a  paste  round  the  dish,  and  bake  the 
pudding  half  an  hour. 

Baked  Gooseberry  Pudding. 

Stew  gooseberries  in  a  jar  over  a  hot  hearth,  or 
in  a  saucepan  of  water,  till  they  will  pulp.  Take 
a  pint  of  the  juice  pressed  thirough  a  sieve,  and  beat 
it  with  three  yelks  and  whites  of  eggs,  beaten  and 
strained,  and  one  o«nce  and  a  half  of  butter  :  sweet- 
en it  well,  and  put  a  crust  round  the  dish.  A  few 
crumbs  of  roll  should  be  mixed  with  the  above  to 
give  a  little  consistence,  or  four  ounces  of  Naples 
biscuit. 


156  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

A  Green  Bean  Pudding, 

Boil  and  Wanch  old  beans,  beat  them  in  a  mortar 
with  njery  little  pepper  and  salt,  some  cream,  and 
the  yelk  of  an  ^'g^'  A  little  spinach  juice  will  give 
a  finer  colour,  but  it  is  as  good  without.  Boil  it 
in  a  bason  that  will  just  hold  it,  an  hour  ;  and  pour 
parsley  and  butter  over. 

Serve  bacon  to  eat  with  it. 

Baked  Almond  Pudding. 

Beat  fine  four  ounces  of  almonds,  four  or  five  bit- 
ter ditto,  with  a  little  wine",  yelks  of  six  eggs,  peel  of 
two  lemons  grated,  six  ounces  of  butter,  near  a  quart 
of  cream,  juice  of  one  lemon.  When  well  mixed, 
bake  it  half  an  hour,  with  a  paste  round  the  dish. 
Shelf jrd  Pudding. 

Mix  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  currants,  or 
raisins,  one  pound  of  suet,  one  pound  of  flour,  six 
eggs,   a  little  good  milk,   some  lemonpeel,.  and  a 
little  salt.     Boil  it  in  a  melon  shape  six  hours. 
Brandy   Pudding. 

Line  a  mould  w4th  jar  raisins  stoned,  or  dried 
cherries,  then  with  thin  slices  of  French  roll ;  next 
to  which  put  ratifias,  or  macaroons,  then  the  fruit, 
roll,  and  cakes  in  succession,  until  the  mould  be 
full ;  sprinkling  in  at  times  two  glasses  of  brandy. 
Beat  four  eggs,  yelks  and  whites  :  put  to  them  a 
pint  of  milk  or  cream,  Hghtly  sweetened,  with  half  a 
putmeg,  and  the  rind  of  half  a  lemon  finely  grated. 
Let  the  liquid  sink  into  the  solid  part ;  then  flour  a 
cloth,  tie  it  tight  over,  and  boil  one  hour  ;  keep  the 
mould  the  right  side  up.   Serve  with  pudding  sauce. 


PUDDINGb.  157 

Buttermilk  Puddinv, 

Warm  three  quarts  of  new  milk,  and  turn  it  with 
a  quart  of  buttermilk  :  when  ready,  drain  the  curd 
through  a  sieve :  when  dry,  pound  it  in  a  marfale 
niortar,  with  near  half  a  pound  of  sugar,  a  lemon 
boiled  tender,  the  crumbs  of  a  roll  grated,  a  nutmeg 
grated,  six  bitter  almonds,  four  ounces  of  warm  but- 
ter, a  teacupful  of  good  cream,  the  yelks  of  five,  and 
whites  of  three  eggs,  a  glass  of  sweet  wine,  and  one 
of  brandy.  When  well  incorporated,  bake  in  small 
cups  or  bowls  well  buttered.  If  the  bottom  be  not 
brown,  use  a  salamander  :  but  serve  as  quick  as 
possible,  and  vinth  pudding  sauce. 

Curd  Puddings,  or  Puffs. 

Turn  two  quarts  of  milk  to  curd  ;  press  the  whey 
from  it  ;  rub  it  through  a  sieve,  and  mix  four  ounces 
of  butter,  the  crumbs  of  a  penny  loaf,  two  spoon- 
fuls of  cream,  half  a  nutmeg,  a  small  quantity  of  su- 
gar, and  two  spoonfuls  of  white  wine.  Butter  lit- 
tle cups,  or  small  pattypans,  and  fill  them  three 
parts.  Orange  flower  water  is  an  improvement. 
Bake  them  with  care. 

Serve  with  sweet  sauce  in  a  boat. 
Boiled  Curd  Pudding, 

Rub  the  curd  of  two  gallons  of  milk,  when 
drained,  through  a  sieve.  Mix  it  with  six  eggs,  a 
little  cream,  two  spoonfuls  of  orange  flower  water, 
half  a  nutmeg,  of  flour  and  crumbs  of  bread  each 
three  spoonfuls,  currants  and  raisins  half  a  pound 
of  each.    Boil  an  hour  in  a  thick  well  flpured  cloth. 


158  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

Small  Almond  Puddings. 

Pound  eight  ounces  of  almonds,  and  a  few  bitter, 
with  a  spoonful  of  water  ;  mix  with  four  ounces  of 
butter  warmed,  four  yelks  and  two  whites  of  eggs, 
sugar  to  taste,  two  spoonfuls  of  cream,  and  one  of 
brandy  ;  mix  well,  and  bake  in  little  cups  buttered. 
Serve  with  pudding  sauce. 

Excellent  light  Puffs. 

Mix  two  spoonfuls  of  flour,  a  httle  grated  lemon- 
peel,  some  nutmeg,  half  a  spoonful  of  brandy,  a 
little  loafsugar,  and  one  egg  :  then  fry  it  enough, 
but  not  brown  ;  beat  it  in  a  mortar  with  five  eggs, 
whites  and  yelks  ;  put  a  quantity  of  lard  in  a  fry- 
ingpan,  and  when  quite  hot,  drop  a  dessert  spoonful 
of  batter  at  a  time :  turn  as  they  brown.  They 
will  be  large.  Serve  immediately.  Sweet  sauce. 
Pippin  Pudding, 

Coddle  six  pippins  in  vineleaves  covered  with  wa- 
ter, but  very  gently,  that  the  inside  be  done  with- 
out breaking  the  skins.  When  soft,  take  off  the 
skins,  and  with  a  teaspoon  take  the  pulp  from  the 
core.  Press  it  through  a  colander ;  add  to  it  two 
spoonfuls  of  orange  flower  water,  three  eggs  beaten, 
a  pint  of  scalded  cream,  sugar  and  nutmeg  to  taste. 
Lay  a  thin  puff  paste  at  the  bottom  and  sides  of  the 
dish ;  shred  some  very  thin  lemonpeel  as  fine  as 
possible,  and  put  into  the  dish  ;  as  likewise  some 
orange  and  citron  in  small  slices. 

Torkshire  Pudding. 

Mix  five  spoonfuls  of  flour,  with  a  quart  of  milk, 


PUDDINGS.  15^ 

and  three  egg^  well  beaten.  Butter  the  pan.  When 
brown  by  baking  under  the  meat,  turn  the  other 
side  upwards,  and  brown  that.  It  should  be  made 
in  a  square  pan,  and  cut  into  pieces  to  come  to  ta» 
ble.  Set  it  over  a  chafing  dish  at  first,  and  stir  it 
some  minutes. 

y4  quick  made  Pudding. 
Flour  and  suet  half  a  pound  each,  four  eggs,  a 
quarter  of  a  pint  of  new  milk,  a  little  mace  and  nut- 
meg, a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  raisins,  ditto  of  cur- 
rants :  mix  well,  and  boil  three  quarters  of  an  hour 
with  the  cover  of  the  pot  on,  or  it  will  req^uire 
longer. 

Teast  or  Siiffolk  DumpUngs^* 
Make  a  very  light  dough  with  yeaSc,  as  for  bread, 
but  with  milk  instead  of  water,  and  put  salt.     Let 
it  rise  an  hour  before  the  fire. 

Twenty  minutes  before  you  are  to  serve,  have 
ready  a  large  stewpan  of  boiling  water,  make  the 
dough  into  balls,  the  size  of  a  middling  apple, 
throw  them  in,  and  boil  twenty  minutes.  If  you 
doubt  when  done  enough,  stick  a  clean  fork  into 
one,  and  if  it  come  out  clear,  it  is  done. 

The  way  to  eat  them  is  to  tear  them  apart  ou 
the  top  with  two  forks,  for  they  become  heavy  by 
their  own  steam.  Eat  immediately  with  meat,  ov 
sugarand  butter,  or  salt. 

Russian  Seed,  or  ground  Rice  Pudding. 
Boil  a  large  spoonful  heaped  of  either  in  a  pint 
of  new  milk,  with  lemonpeel  and  cinnamon.    When 
C2  , 


160  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

cold  add  sugar,  nutmeg,  and  two  eggs,  well  beaten. 
Bake  with  a  crust  round  the  dish. 

Observations  on  making  Puddings. 

The  outside  of  a  boiled  pudding  often  tastes  dis- 
agreeably, which  arises  from  the  cloth  not  being 
nicely  washed,  and  kept  in  a  dry  place.  It  should 
be  dipped  in  boihng  water,  squeezed  dry,  and  flour- 
ed, when  to  be  used.  If  bread,  it  should  be  tied 
loose  y  if  batter,  tight  over.  The  water  should 
boil  quick  when  the  pudding  is  put  in  ;  and  it 
should  be  moved  about  for  a  minute,  lest  the  ingre- 
dients should  not  mix. 

Batter  pudding  should  be  strained  through  a 
coarse  sieve,  when  all  is  mixed.  In  others  the 
eggs  separately. 

The  pans  and  basons  must  be  always  buttered. 

A  pan  of  cold  water  should  be  ready,  and  the 
pudding  dipt  in  as  soon  as  it  comes  out  of  the  pot, 
and  theji  it  will  not  adhere  to  the  cloth. 

SWEET  DISHES. 

Lemon  Custards, 
Beat  the  yelka  of  eight  eggs  till  they  are  as  white 
as  milk  ;  then  put  to  them  a  pint  of  boiling  water, 
the  rinds  of  two  lemons  grated,  and  the  juice  sweet- 
ened to  your  taste.  Stir  it  on  the  fire  till  thick 
enough,  then  add  a  large  glass  of  rich  wine,  and 
Haifa  glass  of  brandy  ;  give  the  whole  one  scalar 
and  put  it  in  cups,  to  be  eaten  coldo 


SWEET  DISHES,  261 

Lent  Potatoes, 

Beat  three  or  four  ounces  of  almonds,  and  three 
•r  four  bitter,  when  blanched,  putting  a  little  or- 
ange flower  water  to  prevent  oiling  :  add  eight  ounc- 
es of  butter,  four  eggs  well  beaten  and  strained,  half 
a  glass  of  raisin  wine,  and  sugar  to  your  taste. 
Beat  all  well  till  quite  smooth,  and  grate  in  three 
Savoy  biscuit.  Make  balls  of  the  above  ;  with  a  lit- 
tle flour,  the  size  of  a  chesnut ;  throw  them  into  a 
stewpan  of  boiling  lard,  and  boil  them  of  a  beauti- 
ful yellow  brown.     Drain  them  on  a  sieve. 

Serve  sweet  sauce  in  a  boat,  to  eat  wuth  them. 
Rice  Flummery. 

Boil  with  a  pint  of  new  milk,  a  bit  of  lemonpeel, 
and  cinnamon  :  mix  with  a  little  cold  milk,  as  much 
rice  flour  as  will  make  the  whole  of  a  good  consist- 
ence :  sweeten,  and  add  a  spoonful  of  peachwater, 
or  a  bitter  ahnond  beaten.  Boil  it,  observing  it 
does  not  burn.  Pour  it  into  a  shape  or  pint  bason, 
taking  out  the  spice.  When  cold,  turn  the  flum- 
mery into  a  dish,  and  serve  with  cream,  milk,  or 
custard  round  ;  or  put  a  teaspoonful  of  cream  into 
half  a  pint  of  new  milk,  a  glass  of  raisin  wine,  a 
little  sugar,  and  a  squeeze  of  lemon. 
Curds  and  Cream. 

Turn  to  curd  three  or  four  pints  of  milk  witli 
runnet ;  break  it,  and  le5:  the  whey  run  out,  then 
put  it  into  a  bason  ;  and  when  to  be  served,  put  it 
on  a  dish  with  some  cream,  or  fine  milk,  either 
plain  or  fweetened. 


162  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

Another  way. 
To  four  quarts  of  new  milk  warmed,  put  from  a 
pint  to  a  quart  of  buttermilk  strained,  according  to 
its  sourness ;  keep  the  pan  covered  until  the  curd 
be  of  a  firmness  to  cut  three  or  four  times  across 
with  a  saucer,  as  the  whey  leaves  it :  put  it  into  a 
shape,  and  fill  up  until  it  be  solid  enough  to  take 
the  form.  Sers^e  with  cream  plain,  or  mixed  with 
sugar,  wine,  and  lemon. 

London  Syllabub. 
Put  a  pint  of  port  or  white  wine  into  a  bowl, 
nutmeg  grated,  and  a  good  deal  of  sugar,  then  milk 
into  it  near  two  quarts  of  milk,  frothed  up.  If 
the  wine  be  not  rather  sharp,  it  will  require  more 
for  this  quantity  of  milk. 

In  Devonshire,  clouted  cream  is  put  on  the  top, 
and  pounded  cinnamon  and  sugar. 

Staffordshire  Syllabub. 
Put  a  pint  of  cider,   and  a  glass  of  brandy,  su- 
gar, and  nutmeg   into  a  bowl,  and  milk  into  it ;  or 
pour  warm  milk  from  a  large  teapot   some  height 
into  it. 

Devonshire  Junket. 
Put  warm  milk  into   a  bowl ;  turn  it  with  run- 
net  ;  then  put  some  scalded  cream,   sugar  and  cin- 
namon on  the  top,  without  breaking  the  curd. 
A  very  Jine  Somersetshire  Syllabub. 
In  a  large  China  bowl  put  a  pint  of  port,  and  a 
pint  of  sherry,  or  other  white  wine  ;   sugar  to  taste. 
Milk  the  bowl  full.     In  twcntv  minutes  cover  it 


SWEET  DISHES.  163 

pretty  high  with  clouted  cream  ;  grate  over  it  nut- 
meg :  put  pounded  cinnamon  and  nonpareil  comfits. 
Sack  Cream* 

Boil  a  pint  of  raw  cream,  the  yelk  of  an  egg  well 
beaten,  two  or  three  spoonfuls  of  white  wine,  su- 
gar, and  lemonpeel ;  stir  it  over  a  gentle  fire  till  it 
be  as  thick  as  rich  cream  ;  put  it  in  a  dish,  and 
serve  it  cold,  garnished  with  rusks  or  sippets  of 
toasted  bread. 

/f  Frotb  to  set  on  Cream,  Custard,  or  Trifle,  which 
looks  and  eats  nvell. 

Sweeten  half  a  pound  of  the  pulp  of  damsons,  or 
any  other  sort  of  scalded  fruit  :  put  to  it  the  whites 
of  four  eggs  beaten,  and  beat  the  pulp  with  them, 
until  it  will  stand  as  high  as  you  choose  ;  and  be- 
ing put  on  the  cream,  &c.  with  a  spoon,  it  will  take 
any  foi*m.  It  should  be  rough  to  imitate  a  rock. 
Floating  Island. 

Mix  three  half  pints  of  thin  cream  with  a  quar- 
ter of  a  pint  of  raisin  wine,  a  little  lemonjuice,  or- 
ange flower  water,  and  sugar  ;  put  into  a  dish  for 
the  middle  of  the  table,  and  put  on  the  cream  a 
froth  like  the  above,  which  may  be  made  of  rasp* 
^erry  or  currantjellv. 

Another  way. 

Scald  a  codhn  before  it  be  ripe,or  any  sharp  apple, 
and  pulp  it  through  a  sieve.  Beat  the  whites  of  two 
eggs  with  sugar,  and  a  spoonful  of  orange  flower 
water  ;  mix  in  by  degrees  the  pulp,  and  beat  all 
together  until  you  have  a  large    quantity  of  froth. 


i&4  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

Serve  it  on  a  raspberry  cream  5  or  you  may  colour 
the  froth  with  beetroot,  raspberry,  or  currant  jelly, 
and  set  it  on  a  white  cream,  having  given  it  the 
flavour  of  lemon,  sugar,  and  wine  as  above ;  or, 
put  the  froth  on  a  custard. 

E'verlastingy  or  Solid  Syllabubs* 

Mix  a  quart  of  thick  raw  cream,  one  pound  of 
refined  sugar,  a  pint  of  white,  and  half  a  pint  of 
sweet  wine  in  a  deep  pan  :  put  to  it  the  grated  peel 
and  the  juice  of  three  lemons.  Beat,  or  whisk  it 
one  way  half  an  hour,  then  put  it  into  glasses. 

It  will  keep  good,  in  a  cool  place,  ten  days. 
Telloiv  Lemon  Creamy  <without  Creatn. 

Pare  four  lemons  very  thin  into  twelve  large 
spoonfuls  of  water,  and  squeeze  the  juice  on  seven 
ounces  of  finely  pounded  sugar  :  beat  the  yelks  of 
nine  eggs  ivell ;  add  the  peels  and  juice  beaten  to- 
gether for  some  time  ;  then  strain  it  through  a 
fiannel  into  a  silver  or  very  nice  hlocktin  saucepan  ; 
set  it  over  a  gentle  fire,  and  stir  it  one  way  till 
pretty  thick,  and  scalding  hot,  but  not  boiling,  or  it 
will  curdle.  Pour  it  into  jelly  glasses.  A  few  lumps 
of  sugar  should  be  rubbed  hard  on  the  lemons  be- 
fore they  are  pared,  or  after,  as  the  peel  will  be  so 
thin  as  not  to  take  all  the  essence,  and  the  sugar 
will  attract  it,  and  give  a  better  colour  and  flavour. 
White  ditto 

Is  made  the  same  as  the  above  ;  only  put  the 
whites  of  the  eggs  in  lieu  of  the  yelks,  whisking 
it  extremely  well  to  fr©th. 


SWEET  DISHES.  les 

Lemon  Cream* 

Take  a  pint  of  thick  cream,  and  put  to  it  the 
yelks  of  two  eggs  well  beaten,  four  ounces  of  fine 
sugar,  and  the  thin  rind  of  a  lemon  :  boil  it  up, 
then  stir  it  till  almost  cold.  Put  the  juice  of  a 
lemon  in  a  dish  or  bowl,  and  pour  the  cream  upon 
it,  stirring  it  till  quite  cold. 

An  excellent  Cream. 

Whip  up  three  quarters  of  a  pint  of  very  rich 
cream  to  a  strong  froth,  with  some  finely  scraped 
lemonpeel,  a  squeeze  of  the  juice,  half  a  glass  of 
sweet  wine,  and  sugar  to  make  it  pleasant  but  not 
too  sweet.  Lay  it  on  a  sieve  or  in  a  form,  and  next 
day  put  it  on  a  dish,  and  ornament  it  with  very 
light  puff  paste  biscuit,  made  in  tin  shapes  the 
length  of  a  finger,  and  about  two  thick,  over  which 
sugar  may  be  strewed,  or  a  light  glaze  with  isin- 
glass. Or  you  may  use  macaroons, 
BlancjTiange  or  Blamange, 

Boil  two  ounces  of  isinglass  in  three  half  pints  of 
water  half  an  hour  ;  strain  it  to  a  pint  and  half  of 
cream  ;  sweeten  it,  and  add  some  peachvvater,  or 
a  few  bitter  almonds  ;  let  it  boil  once  up,  and  put  it 
into  what  forms  you  please.  If  not  to  be  very  stiff, 
a  little  less  isinglass  will  do.  Obsen^  to  let  the 
blamange  settle  before  you  turn  it  into  the  forms, 
or  the  blacks  will  remain  at  the  bottom  of  them, 
and  be  on  the  top  of  the  blamange  when  taken  out 
<>f  the  moulds. 


166  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

Dutch  Flummery. 

Boil  two  ounces  of  isinglass  in  three  half  pints  of 
water  very  gently  half  an  hour  :  add  a  pint  of  white 
wine,  the  juice  of  three  and  the  thin  rind  of  one 
lemon,  and  rub  a  few  lumps  of  sugar  on  another 
lemon  to  obtain  the  essence  ;  and  with  them  add  as 
much  more  sugar  as  shall  make  it  sweet  enough. 
Having  beaten  the  yelks  of  seven  eggs,  give  them 
and  the  above,  when  mixed,  one  scald  ;  stir  all  the 
time,  and  pour  it  into  a  bason.  Stir  it  till  half  cold, 
then  let  it  settle,  and  put  it  into  a  melon  shape. 
Calf's  Feet  Jelly. 

Boil  two  feet  in  five  pints  of  water  till  the  feet 
are  broken,  and  the  water  half  wasted  :  strain  it, 
and,  when  cold,  take  off  the  fat,  and  remove  the 
jelly  from  the  sediment ;  then  put  it  into  a  sauce- 
pan, with  sugar,  raisin  wine,  lemonjuice  to  your 
taste,  and  some  lemonpeel.  When  the  flavour  is 
rich,  put  to  it  the  whites  of  five  eggs  well  beaten, 
and  their  shells  broken.  Set  the  saucepan  on  the 
fire,  but  do  not  stir  the  jelly  after  it  begins  to  warm. 
Let  it  boil  twenty  minutes  after  it  rises  to  a  head, 
then  pour  it  through  a  flannel  jellybag  ;  first  dip- 
ping the  bag  in  hot  water  to  prevent  waste,  and 
squeezing  it  quite  dry.  Run  the  jelly  through 
and  through  until  clear  ;  then  put  it  into  glasses  or 
forms. 

Observe,  that  the  feet  for  a/Zjellies  should  be  on- 
ly scalded  to  take  oft  the  hair  ;  not  bought  boiled, 
wliich   is  the  upurvl  way  ;   but  the  following  rr.odc 


SWEET  DISHES.  167 

will  greatly  facilitate  the  clearing  of  jelly  :  when  the 
mixture  has  boiled  twenty  minutes,  throw  in  a  tea- 
cupful  of  cold  water  ;  let  it  boil  five  minutes  longer  ; 
then  take  the  saucepan  off  the  fire,  cover  it  close, 
and  keep  it  half  an  hour  :  after  which,  it  will  be  so 
clear  as  to  need  only  once  running  through  the 
bag,  and  much  waste  will  be  saved. 

Observe,  feet  for  all  jellies  are  boiled  so  long  by 
the  people  who  sell  them,  that  the  nutritious  juices 
are  lessened  ;  they  should  be  only  scalded  to  take 
off  the  hair.  The  liquor  will  require  greater  care 
in  removing  the  fat  ;  but  the  jelly  will  be  far 
stronger,  and,  of  course,  allow  more  wster. 
Another  sort. 

Boil  four  quarts  of  water  with  three  calf's  feet 
that  have  been  only  scalded,  lill  half  wasted  :  take 
the  jelly  from  the  fat  and  sediment :  mix  with  it 
the  juice  of  a  Seville  orange,  and  twelve  lemons,  thf 
peels  of  three,  the  whites  and  shells  of  tv/elve  eggs  ; 
brown  sugar  to  taste,  near  a  pint  of  raisin  wine,  one 
ounce  of  corianderseed,  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of 
allspice,  a  bit  of  cinnamon,  and  six  cloves,  all  bruised, 
after  having  previously  mixed  them  cold.  The  jelly 
should  boil  fifteen  minutes  without  stirring  ;  then 
clear  it  through  a  flannel  bag.  While  running, 
take  a  little  jelly,  and  mix  with  a  teacupful  of  wa- 
ter in  which  a  bit  of  beetroot  has  been  boiled,  and 
run  it  through  the  bag  when  all  the  rest  is  run  out  ; 
and  this  is  to  garnish  the  other  jelly,  being  cooled 
on  a  plate  ;  but  this  is  matter  of  choice. 

R 


168  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

Orangejelly. 

Grate  the  rind  of  two  Seville  and  two  China 
oranges,  and  two  lemons  ;  squeeze  the  juice  of 
thr?e  of  each,  and  strain,  and  add  the  juice  to  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  lump  sugar,  and  a  quarter  of 
a  pint  of  water,  and  boil  till  it  almost  candies.  Have 
ready  a  quart  of  isinglassjelly  made  with  two 
ounces,  put  to  it  the  syrup,  and  boil  it  once  up  ; 
strain  off  the  jelly,  and  let  it  stand  to  settle  as  above 
before  it  be  put  into  the  mould. 
Hartshornjelly, 

Simmer  eight  ounces  of  hartshorn  shavings  with 
two  quarts  of  water  to  one  ;  strain  it,  and  boil  it 
with  the  rinds  of  four  China  oranges  and  two  lemons 
pared  thin  ;  when  cool,  add  the  juice  of  both,  half  a 
pound  of  sugar,  and  th^  whites  of  six  eggs  beaten 
to  a  froth  ;  let  the  jelly  have  three  or  four  boils 
without  stirring,  and  strain  it  through  a  jelly  bag. 
Imperial  Cream. 

Boil  a  quart  of  cream  with  the  thin  rind  of  a 
lemon,  then  stir  it  till  nearly  cold  ;  have  ready  in  a, 
dish  or  bowl  that  you  are  to  serve  in,  the  juice  of 
■three  lemons  strained  with  as  much  sugar  as  will 
sweeten  the  cream  ;  which  pour  into  the  dish  from 
a  large  teapot,  holding  it  high,  and  moving  it  about 
to  mix  with  the  juice.  It  should  be  made  at  least 
six  hours  before  it  be  served. 
yl  cream. 

Boil  half  a  pint  of  cream,  and  half  a  pint  of  milk, 
with  two  baylcavcs,   a  bit  of  lemonpeel,  a  few  al- 


SWEET  DISHES.  1Q9 

monds  beaten  to  paste,  v/ith  a  drop  of  water,  a  little 
sugar,  orange  flower  water,  and  a  teaspoonful  of 
flour,  having  been  rubbed  down  with  a  little  cold 
milk,  and  mixed  with  the  above.  When  cold,  put 
a  little  lemonjuice  to  the  cream,  and  serve  it  in 
cups  or  lemonade  glasses. 

Cheap,  and  excellent  Custards. 

Boil  three  pints  of  new  milk,  with  a  bit  of  lemon- 
peel,  a  bit  of  cinnamon,  two  or  three  bayleaves, 
and  sweeten  it.  Meanwhile  rub  down  smooth  a 
large  spoonful  of  rice  flour  into  a  cup  of  cold  milk, 
and  mix  with  it  two  yelks  of  tgg  well  beaten.  Take 
a  bason  of  the  boiling  milk,  and  mix  with  the  cold, 
and  then  pour  that  to  the  boiling  ;  stirring  it  one 
way,  till  it  begins  to  thicken,  and  is  just  going  to 
boil  up  ;  then  pour  it  into  a  pan,  stir  it  some  time, 
add  a  large  spoonful  of  peachwater,  two  teaspoon- 
fuls  of  brandy,  or  a  little  ratafia. 
Richer   Custard. 

Boil  a  pint  of  milk  with  lemonpeel  and  cinnamon  ; 
mix  a  pint  of  cream,  and  the  yelks  of  five  eggs  well 
beaten.  When  the  milk  tastes  of  the  seasoning, 
sweeten  it  enough  for  the  whole,  pour  it  into  the 
cream,  stirring  well,  then  give  the  custard  a  simmer 
till  of  a  proper  thickness.  Do  not  let  it  boil.  Stir 
the  whole  time  one  way  :  season  as  above. 
Almond  Cream. 

Beat  four  ounces  of  sweet  almonds,  and  a  few 
bitter,  in  a  mortar,  with  a  teaspoonful  of  water  to 


;70  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

prevent  oiling,  both  having  been  blanched.  Put  the 
paste  to  a  quart  of  cream,  and  add  the  juice  of  three 
lemons  sweetened ;  beat  it  up  with  a  whisk  to  a  froth, 
which  take  off  on  the  shallow  part  of  a  sieve.  Fill 
glasses  with  some  of  the  liquor  and  the  froth. 
Brandy  Cream. 

Boil  two  dozen  of  almonds  blanched,  and  pounded 
bitter  almonds  in  a  little  milk.  When  cold,  add  it 
to  the  yelks  of  five  eggs  beaten  well  in  a  little 
cream  ;  sweeten,  and  put  to  it  two  glasses  of  best 
brandy  ;  and  when  well  mixed,  pour  to  it  a  quart 
of  thin  cream.  Set  it  over  the  fire,  but  do  not  let 
it  boil.  Stir  one  way  till  it  thickens,  then  pour  into 
cups,  or  low  glasses.  When  cold  it  will  be  ready. 
A  ratafia  drop  may  be  put  in  each,  if  you  choose 
it.  If  you  wish  it  to  keep,  scald  the  cream  previously. 
Smiv  Cream. 

Put  to  a  quart  of  cream  the  whites  of  three  eggs 
well  beaten,  four  spoonfuls  of  sweet  wine,  sugar  to 
your  taste,  and  a  bit  of  lemonpeel :  whip  it  to  a 
froth,  remove  the  peel,  and  serve  in  a  dish. 
j4  pretty  supper  dish. 

Boil  a  teacupful  of  rice,  having  first  washed  it 
in  milk,  till  tender  :  strain  off  the  milk  ;  lay  the 
rice  in  little  heaps  on  a  dish  ;  strew  over  them 
some  finely  powdered  sugar  and  cinnamon,  and 
put  warm  wine  and  a  little  butter  into  the  dish. 
Wine  Roll. 

Soak  a  penny  French  roll  in  raisin   wine  till  it 
will   hold  no  more  :  put  it  in  the  dish,  and  pour 


SWEET  DISHES.  171 

round  it  a  custard,  or  cream,  sugar,  and  lemonjuice. 
Just  before  it  is  served,  sprinkle  over  it  some  non- 
pareil comfits ;  or  stick  a  few  blanched  and  slit 
almonds  into  it. 

Sponge  biscuit  may  be  used  instead  of  the  roll. 
An  excellent  Trifle, 

Lay  macaroons  and  ratafia  drops  over  the  bot- 
tom of  your  dish,  and  pour  in  as  much  raisin  wine 
as  they  will  suck  up  ;  which,  when  they  have  done, 
pour  on  them  cold  rich  custard,  made  with  more 
eggs  than  directed  in  the  foregoing  pages,  and  some 
rice  flour.  It  must  stand  two  or  three  inches  thick. 
On  that  put  a  layer  of  raspberry  jam,  and  cover 
the  whole  with  a  very  high  whip  made  the  day 
before,  of  rich  cream,  the  whites  of  two  well  beaten 
eggs,  sugar,  lemonpeel,  and  raisin  wine.  If  made 
the  day  before  used,  it  has  quite  a  diSerent  taste, 
and  is  solid  and  far  better. 

Burnt  Cream. 

Boil  a  pint  of  cream  with  a  stick  of  cinnamon, 
and  some  lemonpeel ;  take  it  off  the  fire,  and  pour  it 
very  slowly  into  the  yelks  of  four  eggs,  stirring  till 
half  cold :  sweeten,  and  take  out  the  spice,  &c. 
Pour  it  into  the  dish ;  when  cold,  strew  white  pound- 
ed sugar  over,  and  brown  it  with  a  salamander. 
Rice  and  Sago  Milks 

Are  made  by  washing  the  seeds  nicely,  and  over  a 
slow  fire  simmering  with  milk  till  sufFiciently  done. 
The  former  sort  requires  lemon,  spice  and  sugar ; 
the  latter  is  fine  without  any  thing  to  flavour  it. 


172  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

Lemon  Honeycomb, 

Sweeten  the  juice  of  a  lemon  to  your  taste,  and 
put  it  in  the  dish  that  you  serve  it  in.  Mix  the 
white  of  an  egg  that  is  beaten  with  a  pint  of  rich 
cream,  and  a  httle  sugar  ;  whisk  it,  and  as  the  froth 
rises  put  it  on  the  lemonjuice. 

Do  it  the  day  before  it  is  to  be  used. 
Coffee  Cream,     Much  admired. 

Boil  a  calf  s  foot  in  water  till  it  wastes  to  a  pint 
of  jelly  :  clear  it  of  sediment  and  fat.  Make  a  tea- 
cup of  very  strong  coffee  ;  clear  it  with  a  bit  of  isin- 
glass to  be  perfectly  bright ;  pour  it  to  the  jelly, 
and  add  a  pint  of  very  good  cream,  and  as  much 
fine  Lisbon  sugar  as  is  pleasant.  Give  one  boil 
up,  and  pour  into  the  >dish.  It  should  jelly,  but 
not  be  stiff.  Observe  that  your  coffee  be  fresh. 
Orange  Fool, 

Mix  the  juice  of  three  Seville  oranges,  three  eggs 
well  beaten,  a  pint  of  cream,  a  httle  nutmeg  and 
cinnamon,  and  sweeten  to  your  taste.  Set  the 
whole  over  a  slow  fire,  and  stir  it  till  it  becomes  as 
thick  as  good  melted  butter,  but  it  must  not  be 
boiled ;  then  pour  it  into  a  dish  for  eating  cold. 
Gooseberry  Fool. 

Put  the  fruit  into  a  stone  jar  and  some  good 
Lisbon  sugar  with  them  :  set  the  jaf  on  a  stove, 
or  in  a  saucepan  of  water  over  the  fire  ;  if  the  for- 
mer, a  large  spoonful  of  Vv-ater  should  be  added  to 
the  fruit.  When  it  is  done  enough  to  pulp,  press 
it  through  a  colander  :  have  ready  a  sufficient  quan- 


SWEET  DISHES.  173 

tity  of  new  milk,  and  a  teacup  of  raw  cream  boiled 
together ;  or  an  egg  instead  of  the  latter,  and  left 
to  be  cold  ;  then  sweeten  it  pretty  well  with  fine 
Lisbon  sugar,  and  mix  the  pulp  by  degrees,  with 
it. 

j^pple  FooL 

Stew  apples  as  directed  for  gooseberries,  and  then 
peel  and  pulp  them.  Prepare  the  milk,  &c.  an4 
mix  as  before. 

Raspberry  Cream. 

Mash  the  fruit  gently,  and  let  them  drain  ;  then 
sprinkle  a  little  sugar  over,  and  that  will  produce 
more  juice  ;  then  put  the  juice  to  some  cream,  and 
sweeten  it.  After  which,  if  you  choose  to  lower  it 
with  some  milk,  it  will  not  Qurdle  ;  which  it  would^ 
if  put  to  the  milk  before  the  cream  ;  but  it  is  best 
made  of  raspberry  jelly,  instead  of  jam,  when  the 
fresh  fruit  cannot  be  obtained. 
Flummery. 

Put  three  large  handfuls  of  very  small  white  oat- 
meal to  steep  a  day  and  night  in  cold  water  ;  then 
pour  it  off  clear,  and  add  as  much  more  water,  and 
let  it  stand  the  same  time.  Strain  it  through  a  fine 
hair  sieve,  and  boil  it  till  it  be  as  thick  as  hastypud- 
ding  ;  stirring  it  well  all  the  time.  When  first 
strained,  put  to  it  one  large  spoonful  of  white  sugar, 
and  two  of  orange  flower  v/ater.  Put  it  into  shal- 
low dishes  ;  and  serve  to  eat  with  wine,  cider,  milk, 
or  cream  and  sugar.     It  is  vety  good. 


174  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

To  butter  Oranges, 

Grate  off  a  little  of  the  outside  rind  of  four  Se- 
ville oranges,  and  cut  a  round  hole,  at  the  blunt  end 
opposite  the  stalk,  large  enough  to  take  out  the 
pulp,  seeds,  and  juice  ;  then  pick  the  seeds  and  skin 
from  the  pulp.  Rub  the  oranges  with  a  little  salt, 
and  lay  them  in  water  for  a  short  time.  You  are  to 
save  the  bits  cut  out.  Set  the  fruit  on  to  boil  in 
fresh  water  till  they  are  tender,  shifting  the  water 
to  take  out  the  bitterness.  In  the  mean  time,  make 
a  thin  syrup  with  fine  sugar,  and  put  the  oran- 
ges into  it,  and  boil  them  up,  turning  them  round, 
that  each  part  may  partake  of  the  syrup,  as  there 
need  not  be  enough  to  cover  them,  and  let  therti 
remain  in  it  hot  till  they  are  to  be  served.  About 
half  an  hour  before  you  want  them,  put  some  sugar 
to  the  pulp,  and  set  over  the  fire  ;  mix  it  well,  and 
let  it  boil ;  then  add  a  spoonful  of  white  wine  for 
every  orange.  Give  it  a  boil,  and  then  put  in  a  bit 
of  fresh  butter,  and  stir  it  over  the  fire  to  thicken. 
Fill  the  oranges  with  it,  and  serve  them  with  some 
of  the  syrup  in  the  dish.  Put  the  bits  on  the  top. 
Buttered  Orange  Juice. 

Mix  the  juice  of  seven  Seville  oranges  with  four 
spoonfuls  of  rose  water,  and  add  the  whole  to  the 
yelks  of  eight  and  whites  of  four  eggs,  well  beaten. 
Then  strain  the  liquor  to  half  a  pound  of  sugar 
pounded  ;  stir  it  over  a  gentle  fire,  and  when  it  be- 
gins to  thicken,  put  about  the  size  of  a  small  wal- 
nut of  butter  :  keep  it  over  the  fire  a  few  minutes 


SWEET  DISHES.  175 

longer,  then  pour  it  into  a  flat  dish,  and  serve  it  to 
eat  cold.     If  you  have  no  silver  saucepan,  do  it  in 
a  China  bason  in  a  saucepan  of  boihng  water,  the 
U>p  of  which  will  just  receive  the  bason. 
Stewed  Pears, 

Pare  and  halve^  or  quarter,  large  pears,  according 
to  their  size  :  throw  them  into  water,  as  the  skin  is 
taken  ofi  before  they  are  divided,  to  prevent  their 
turning  black.  Pack  them  round  a  blocktin  stew- 
pan,  and  sprinkle  as  much  sugar  oyer  as  will  make 
them  pretty  sweet :  add  lemonpeel,  a  clove  or  two, 
and  some  allspice  cracked,  Just  cover  them  with 
water,  and  put  some  of  the  red  liquor,  which  will 
be  directed  hereafter  ;  cover  them  close,  and  stew 
three  or  four  hours.  When  tender,  take  them  out, 
and  pour  the  liquor  over  them. 
Baked  Pears* 

These  need  not  be  of  a  fine  sort  ;  but  some  taste 
better  than  others,  and  often  those  that  are  least  fit 
to  eat  raw.  Wipe,  but  do  not  pare,  and  lay  them  on 
tin  plates,  and  bake  them  in  a  slow  oven.  WTiea 
baked  enough  to  bear  it,  flatten  them  with  a  silver 
spoon.     When  done  through,  put  them  on  a  dish. 

Apples  in  the  same  way  are  excellent,  and  serve 
for  desserts.- 

Dried  Apples,  or  Pears. 

Put  them  in  a  cool  oven  six  or  seven  times,  and 
flatten  them  by  degrees,  and  gently,  when  soft 
enough  to  bear  it.  If  the  oven  be  too  hot  they 
will  waste  ;  and  at  first  it  should  be  very  cool. 


176  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

The  Biffin,  the  Minshul  crab,  or  any  tart  apples, 
are  the  sort  for  drying. 

Black  Caps. 

Halve  and  core  some  fine  large  apples  :  put  them 
ill  a  shallow  pan  :  strew  white  sugar  over,  and  bake 
them.  Boil  a  glass  of  wine,  the  same  of  water,  and 
sweeten  it  for  sauce. 

Steaved  Golden  Pippins, 

Scoop  out  the  core  ;  pare  them  very  thin  ;  and 
as  you  do  it,  throw  them  in  water.  For  every 
pound  of  fruit  make  half  a  pound  of  single  refined 
sugar  into  syrup,  with  a  pint  of  water.  When 
skimmed,  put  the  pippins  in,  and  stew  till  clear  ; 
then  grate  lemon  over,  and  serve  in  the  syrup.  Be 
careful  not  to  let  them  break. 

They  are  an  elegant  and  good  dish  for  a  comer 
or  dessert. 

Red  Apples  in  Jelly, 

Pare  and  core  some  well  shaped  apples  ;  pippins, 
or  golden  rennets,  if  you  have  them,  but  others 
will  do  :  throw  them  into  water  as  you  do  them. 
Put  them  in  a  preserving  pan,  and  with  as  little 
water  as  will  only  half  cover  them,  let  them  coddle  ; 
and  when  the  lower  side  is  done,  turn  them.  Observe 
that  they  do  not  lie  too  close  when  first  put  in.  Mix 
some  pounded  cochineal  with  the  water,  and  boil 
with  the  fruit.  When  sufficiently  done,  take  them 
out  on  the  dish  they  are  to  be  served  in,  the  stalk 
downwards.  Take  the  water,  and  make  a  rich 
jelly  of  it  with  loaf  sugar,  boiling  the  thin  rind  and 


SWEET  DISHES.  ni 

juice  of  a  lemon.  When  come  to  a  jelly,  let  it 
grow  cold,  and  put  it  on  and  among  the  apples,  and 
cut  the  peel  of  the  lemon  in  narrow  strips,  and  put 
across  the  eye  of  the  apple. 

Observe  that  the  colour  be  fine  from  the  first,  or 
the  fruit  will  not  afterwards  gain  it. 

Applejelly,  to  serine  to  table. 

Prepare  twenty  golden  pippins  :  boil  them  in  a 
pint  and  a  half  of  water  from  the  spring,  till  quite 
tender  ;  then  strain  the  liquor  through  a  colander. 
To  every  pint  put  a  pound  of  fine  sugar  ;  add  grated 
orange  or  lemon,  then  boil  to  a  jelly. 
Another, 

Prepare  apples  as  before,  by  boiling  and  straining  : 
have  ready  half  an  ounce  of  isinglass,  boiled  in  half 
a  pint  of  water  to  a  jelly  :  put  this  to  the  apple  wa- 
ter, and  apple  as  strained  through  a  coarse  sieve  : 
add  sugar,  a  little  lemonjuice  and  peel.  Boil  all  to- 
gether, and  put  into  a  dish.  Take  out  the  peel. 
To  prepare  Apples  for  Puffs. 

Pare  and  core  apples  ;  cover  them  with  water, 
but  put  them  as  close  as  possible,  that  they  may 
take  but  little  :  add  a  little  pounded  cinnamon  and 
a  clove  ;  to  every  dozen  apples  two  spoonfuls  of 
rosewater,  and  a  little  lemonpeel  finely  shred, 
Svvceten  and  cool  before  you  make  it  into  puffs. 
Pippin  Tarts. 

Pare  thin  two  Seville  or  China  oranges  ;  boil  the 
peel  tender,  and  shred  it  fine.  Pare  and  core  twen- 
^:v  ar>Dle3  :  Dut    th?Tn   in  a   Rtewr>?in,    nnd   a?   I'ttli' 


178  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

water  as  possible  ;  when  half  done,  add  half  a  pound 
©f  sugar,  the  orangepeel  and  juice  :  boil  till  pretty- 
thick.  When  cold,  put  it  into  a  shallow  dish,  or  pat- 
typans lined  with  paste,  to  turn  out,  and  be  eaten  cold. 
Apple  Marmalade, 

Scald  apples  till  they  will  pulp  from  the  core  ;  then 
take  an  equal  weight  of  sugar  in  large  lumps,  just 
dip  them  in  water,  and  boihng  it  till  it  can  be  well 
gkimmed,  and  is  a  thick  syrup  ;  put  to  it  the  pulp, 
and  simmer  it  on  a  quick  fire  a  quarter  of  an  hour. 

Keep  it  in  small  pots,  covered  with  paper  dipped 
in  brandy. 

Ccdlins  to  scald. 

Wrap  each  in  a  vineleaf,  and  pack  them  close  in 
a  nice  saucepan  ;  and,  when  full,  pour  as  much 
water  as  will  cover  them.  Set  it  over  a  gentle  fire, 
and  let  them  simmer  slowly  till  done  enough  to 
take  the  thin  skin  oft  when  cold.  Place  them  in  a 
dish,  with  or  without  milk,  cream,  or  custard  ;  if 
the  latter,  there  should  be  no  ratafia.  Dust  fine 
sugar  over  the  apples. 

Different  ivays  rf  dressing  Cra7iberrles, 

For  pies  and  puddings,  with  a  good  deal  of  sugar. 

Stewed  in  a  jar,  with  the  same  ;  which  way  they 
eat  well  with  bread,  and  are  very  wholesome. 

Thus  done,  pressed  and  strained,  the  juice  makes 
a  fine  drink  for  people  in  fevers. 
Cran  berry  jelly . 

Make  a  very  strong  isinglassjelly.  When  cold, 
mix  it  with  a  double  quantity  of  cranberryjuice 


SWEET  DISHES.  179 

pressed  as  above  :  Sweeten  and  boil  it  up  ;    then 
strain  it  into  a  shape. 

The  sugar  must  be  good  loaf,  or  the  jelly  will 
not  be  clear. 

Cranberry  and  R'lcejelly. 
Boil  and  press  the   fruit  :  strain  the  juice  ;  and 
by  degrees  mix  into  it  as  much  ground  rice  as  will, 
when  boiled,  thicken  to  a  jelly.     Boil  it  gently, 
stirring  it,  and  sweeten  to  your  taste*      Put  it  into 
a  bason  or   form,  and  serve  to  eat  as  the  before  di- 
rected jelly,  with  milk  or  cream.. 
Prune  Tart, 
Give  prunes  a  scald  :  take  out  the  stones  and 
break  them  :  put  the  kernels  into  a  little  cranberry 
juice,  with  the  prunes  and  sugar  ;    simmer,  and 
when  cold,  make  a  tart  of  the  sweetmeat. 

To  Jill  preserved  Oranges.  Corner  dish. 
For  five,  take  a  pound  of  Naples  biscuit,  some 
blanched  almonds,  the  yelks  of  four  eggs  beaten, 
sugar  to  your  taste,  four  ounces  of  butter  warmed  : 
grate  the  biscuit,  and  mix  with  the  above,  and 
some  orange  flower  water.  Fill  preserved  oranges, 
and  bake  in  a  very  slow  oven.  If  you  like  them 
frosted,  sift  sugar  over  them  as  soon  as  filled  ; 
otherwise  wipe  them.  Custard  to  fill  will  do  as 
well  ;  if  so,  you  need  not  bake  the  oranges,  but 
put  in  cold. 

Orange  Tart. 
Squeeze,  pulp,  and  boil  two  Seville  oranges  ten- 
der :  wHi^b  them,  and  double  of  ^ugrgr  ;  beatbct-h 


180  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

together  to  a  paste,  and  then  add  the  juice  and  pulp 
of  the  fruit,  and  the  size  of  a  walnut  of  fresh  butter, 
and  beat  all  together.  Choose  a  very  shallow  dish, 
line  it  with  a  light  puff  crust,  and  lay  the  paste  of 
orange  in  it.  You  may  ice  it.  See  Paste. 
Codlin  Tart, 

Scald  the  fruit,  as  directed  under  that  article  ; 
when  ready,  take  off  the  thin  skin,  and  lay  them 
whole  in  a  dish,  put  a  little  of  the  water  that  the 
apples  were  boiled  in  at  bottom,  and  strew  them 
over  with  lump  sugar  or  fine  Lisbon  ;  when  cold, 
put  a  paste  round  the  edges,  and  over. 

You  may  wet  it  with  white  of  egg,  and  strew 
sugar  over,  which  looks  well  :  or,  cut  the  lid  in 
quarters,  without  touching  the  paste  on  the  edge  of 
the  dish  ;  and  either  put  the  broad  end  downwards, 
and  make  the  point  stand  up,  or  remove  the  lid 
altogether.  Pour  a  good  custard  over  it  ;  when^ 
cold,  sift  sugar  over  it. 

Or  line  the  bottom  of  a  shallow  dish  with  paste, 
lay  the  apples  in  it,  put  sugar  over,  and  lay  little 
twists  of  paste  over  in  bars. 

Cherry  Pie 

Should  have  a  mixture  of  other  fruit ; '  such  as 
currants  or  raspberries,  or  both. 
Rhubarb  Tart. 
Cut  the  stalks  in  lengths  of  four  or  five  inches, 
and  take  off  the  thin  skin.  If  you  have  a  hot  hearth, 
lay  them  in  a  dish,  and  put  over  a  thin  syrup  of  su- 
gar and  water  ;  cover  with  another  dish,  and  let  it 


SWEET  DISHES.  l«l 

simmer  very  slowly  an  hour ;  or  do  them  in  a  block> 
tin  saucepaa.  When  cold,  make  into  a  tart,  as 
codlin. 

Currant  and  Raspberry, 

Make  as  a  pie  ;  or  for  a  tart ;  line  the  dish,  put 
sugar  and  fruit,  lay  bars  across,  and  bake. 
Appkpie, 

Pare  and  core  the  fruit,  having  wiped  the  out- 
side %  which,  with  the  cores,  boil  with  a  little  water 
till  it  tastes  well.  Strain,  and  put  a  little  sugar, 
and  a  bit  of  bruised  cinnamon,  and  simmer  again. 
Jn  the  mean  time  place  the  apples  in  a  dish,  a  paste 
being  put  round  the  edge  4  when  one  layer  is  in, 
sprinkle  half  the  sugar,  and  ;Shred  lemonpeel,  and 
.squeeze  some  juice,  or  a  glass  of  cider  ;  if  the  ap- 
ples have  lost  their  spirit,  put  in  the  rest  of  the  ap- 
ples, sugar,  and  the  liquor  that  you  have  boiled. 
Cover  with  paste.  You  may  add  some  butter  when 
cut,  if  eaten  hot :  or  put  quince  marmalade,  orange 
paste,  or  cloves  to  flavour. 

Puffs  of  any  sort  §f  Fruit 

May  be  made,  but  it  should  be  prepared  first 
with  sugar.  Apples  will  do,  as  before  directed  ; 
or,  as  follows,  eat  best  :  the  crust  must  be  thick,  if 
used  raw.  Pare  and  slice  apple  ;  sprinkle  sugar, 
and  some  chopped  lemon  :  or  stew  in  a  small  stone 
jar.  When  cold,  make  it  into  puffs  of  thin  crust. 
yl  Tatuey, 

Beat  seven  eggs,  yelks  and  whites  separately  : 
add  a  pint  of  cream,  near  the  same  of  spinachjuice, 


182  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

and  a  little  tanseyjuice  gained  by  pounding  in  a 
stone  mortar  ;  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  Naples  bis- 
cuit, sugar  to  taste,  a  glass  of  white  wine,  and,  some 
nutmeg.  Set  all  in  a  saucepan,  just  to  thicken, 
over  the  fire  ;  then  put  into  a  dish,  lined  with  paste 
to  turn  out,  and  bake  it. 

Pancakes  of  Rice. 

Boil  half  a  pound  of  rice  to  a  jelly  in  a  small 
quantity  of  water  :  when  cold,  mix  it  with  a  pint  o-f 
cream,  eight  eggs,  a  bit  of  salt,  and  nutmeg.  Stir 
in  eight  ounces  of  butter  just  warmed,  and  add  as 
much  flour  as  will  make  the  batter  thick  enough. 
Fry  in  as  little  lard  or  dripping  as  possible. 
Common  Pancakes. 

Make  a  light  batter  of  eggs,  flour,  and  milk. 
Fry  in  a  small  pan,  in  hot  dripping  or  lard.  Salt, 
or  nutmeg  and  ginger  may  be  added. 

Sugar  and  lemons  should  be  served  to  eat  with 
them.  Or,  when  eggs  are  scarce,  make  the  batter 
with  flour,  and  small  beer,  ginger,  &c.  Or  clean 
snow,  with  flour,  and  a  very  little  milk,  will  serve 
as  well  as  eggs. 

Irish  Pancakes. 

Beat  eight  yelks  and  four  whites  of  eggs  :  strain 
them  into  a  pint  of  cream  ;  put  a  grated  nutmeg 
and  sugar  to  your  taste.  Set  three  ounces  of  fresh 
butter  on  the  fire,  stir  it,  and  as  it  warms,  pour  it 
to  the  cream,  which  should  be  warm  when  the 
eggs  are  put  to  it  ;  then  mix  smooth  almost 
half  a  pint  of  flour.     Fry  the  pancakes  very  thin, 


SWEET  DISHES.  183 

the  first  with  a  bit  of  butter,  but  not  the  others. 
Serve  several,  one  on  another. 

Fine  Pancakes,  fried  luithout  Butter,  or  Lard, 

Beat  six  fresh  eggs  extremely  well ;  mix,  when 
Strained,  with  a  pint  of  cream,  four  ounces  of  sugar, 
a  glass  of  wine,  half  a  nutmeg  grated,  and  as  much 
flour  as  will  make  it  almost  as  thick  as  ordinary 
pancake  batter,  but  not  quite.  Heat  the  fryingpan 
tolerably  hot,  wipe  it  with  a  clean  cloth  ;  then  pour 
in  the  batter,  to  make  thin  pancakes. 
Boc  kings. 

Mix  three  ounces  of  buckwheat  flour,  with  a  tea,, 
cupful  of  warm  milk,  and  a  spoonful  of  yeast  ;  let 
it  rise  before  the  fire  about  an  hour  ;  then  mix  four 
eggs,  well  beaten,  and  as  much  milk  as  will  make 
the  batter  the  usual  thickness  for  pancakes,  and  fr)'- 
them  as  they  are  done. 

J  Fraise, 

Cut  streaked  bacon  in  thin  slices  an  inch  long  ; 
make  a  batter  bf  a  pint  of  milk,  three  eggs,  and  a 
large  spoonful  of  flour  ;  add  salt  and  pepper  :  put 
a  piece  of  fresh  dripping  in  the  pan,  and,  when  hot, 
pour  half  the  batter,  and  on  it  strew  the  bacon, 
then  the  remainder  of  the  batter.  Let  it  do  gently  ; 
and  be  careful,  in  turning,  that  the  bacon  do  not 
come  to  the  pan. 

Fritters. 

Make  them  of  any  of  the  batters  directed  for 
pancakes  by  dropping  a  small  quantity  into  the  pan. 
Or  make  the  plainer  sort,  and  put  pared  apple,  sliced 
s  2 


184  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

and  cored,  into  the  batter,  and  fry  some  of  it  with 
each  sHce.     Currants,  or  sHced  lemon  as  thin  as 
paper,  make  an  agreeable  change. 
Spanish  Fritters. 

Cut  the  crumb  of  a  French  roll  into  lengths,  as 
thick  as  your  finger,  in  what  shape  you  will.  Soak 
in  some  cream*  nutmeg,  sugar,  pounded  cinnamon, 
and  an  egg.  When  well  soaked,  fry  of  a  nice 
brown,  and  serve  with  butter,  wine,  and  sugar 
sauce. 

Potatoe  Fritters, 

Boil  two  large  potatoes,  and  scrape  them  fine  : 
beat  four  yelks  and  three  whites  of  eggs,  and  add 
to  the  above,  with  one  large  spoonful  of  cream, 
another  of  sweet  wine,  a  squeeze  of  lemon,  and  a 
little  nutmeg.  Beat  this  batter  half  an  hour  at 
least.  It  will  be  extremely  hght.  Put  a  good 
quantity  of  fine  lard  in  a  stewpan,  and  drop  a  spoon- 
ful of  the  batter  at  a  time  into  it  :  fry  them  ;  and 
serve  as  a  sauce,  a  glass  of  white  wine,  the  juice  of 
a  lemon,  one  dessert  spoonful  of  peachleaf,  or  almond 
water,  and  some  white  sugar  warmed  together  : 
not  to  be  served  in  the  dish. 

Cheesecahes. 

Strain  the  whey  from  the  curd  of  two  quarts  of 
milk.  When  rather  dry,  crumble  it  through  a 
coarse  sieve,  and  mix  with  six  ounces  of  fresh  but- 
ter, one  ounce  of  pounded  blanched  almonds,  a  little 
orange  flower  water,  half  a  glass  of  raisin  wine,  a 
grated  biscuit,  four  ounces  of  currants,  some  nut- 


SWEET  DISHES.  185 

meg,  and  cinnamon,  in  fine  powder,  and  beat  all  the 

above  with  three  eggs,  and  half  a  pint  of  cream,  till 

quite  light  ;  then  fill  the  pattypans  three  parts  full. 

A  plainer  sort. 

Turn  three  quarts  of  milk  to  curd  :  break  it,  and 
drain  the  whey.  When  dry,  break  it  in  a  pan, 
with  two  ounces  of  butter,  till  perfectly  smooth  : 
put  to  it  a  pint  and  a  half  of  thin  cream  or  good 
milk,  and  add  sugar,  cinnamon,  nutmeg,  and  three 
ounces  of  currants. 

Cheesecakes,  another  ivay. 

Mix  the  curd  of  three  quarts  of  milk,  a  pound  of 
currants,  twelve  ounces  of  Lisbon  sugar,  a  quarter 
of  an  ounce  each  of  cinnamon  and  nutmeg,  the  peel 
of  two  lemons  chopped  so  fine  that  it  becomes  a 
paste,  the  yelks  of  eight  and  whites  of  six  eggs,  a 
pint  of  scalded  cream,  and  a  glass  of  brandy.  Put 
a  light  thin  puff  paste  in  the  pattypans,  and  three 
parts  fill  them. 

Lemcn  Cheesecahes. 

Mix  four  ounces  of  sifted  lump  sugar,  and  four 
ounces  of  butter,  and  gently  melt  it  ;  then  add  the 
yelks  of  two  and  the  white  of  one  Ggg,  the  rind  of 
three  lemons  shred  fine,  and  the  juice  of  one  and  a 
half;  one  Savoy  biscuit,  some  blanched  almonds 
pounded,  and  three  spoonfuls  of  brandy.  Mix 
well,  and  put  in  paste  made  as  follows  :  eight 
ounces  of  flour,  six  ounces  of  butter  ;  two  thirds  of 
which  m-ix  with  the  flour  first  ;  then  v/et  it  v/ith 
six  SDOonfuls  of  water,  and  roll  tho  remainder  in. 


486  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

Another  Lemon  Cheesecake, 

Boil  two  large  lemons,  or  three  small  ones  ;  and^ 
after  squeezing,  pound  them  well  together,  in  a 
mortar,  with  four  ounces  of  loaf  sugar,  the  yelks  of 
six  eggs,  and  eight  ounces  of  fresh  butter.  Fill 
the  pattypans  half  full. 

Orange  cheesecakes  are  done  the  same  way,  only 
you  must  boil  the  peel  in  two  or  three  waters  to 
take  out  the  bitterness. 

Orange  Cheesecakes. 

When  you  Jiave  blanched  half  a  pound  of  al- 
monds, beat  them  very  fine,  with  orange  flower 
water,  and  half  a  pound  of  fine  sugar  beaten  and 
sifted,  a  pound  of  butter  that  has  been  melted  care-? 
fully  without  oiling,  and  which  must  be  nearly  cold 
before  you  use  it ;  then  beat  the  yelks  of  ten  and 
whites  of  four  eggs  :  pound  two  candied  oranges, 
and  a  fresh  one  with  the  bitterness  boiled  out,  in  a 
mortar,  till  as  tender  as  marmalade,  without  any 
lumps  ;  and  beat  the  whole  together,  and  put  into 
pattypans. 

For  the  crust,  turn  to  page  1 40. 
Potatoe  Cheesecakes, 

Boil  six  ounces  of  potatoes,  and  four  ounces  of 
lemonpeel  ;  beat  the  latter  in  a  marble  mortar, 
with  four  ounces  of  sugar  ;  then  add  the  potatoes, 
beaten,  and  four  ounces  of  butter  melted  in  a  little 
cream.  When  well  mixed,  let  it  stand  to  grow 
cold.  Put  crust  in  pattypans,  and  rather  more 
than  half  fill  them.     Bake  in  a  quick  oven  half  a« 


FRUITS.  187 

hour  ;  sifting  some  double  refined  sugar  on  them 
when  going  to  the  oven.  This  quantity  will  make 
a  dozen. 

Almond  Cheesecakes. 
Blanch  and  pound  four  ounces  of  almonds,  and  a 
few  bitter,  with  a  spoonful  of  water  ;  then  add  four 
ounces  of  sugar  pounded,  a  spoonful  of  cream,  and 
the  whites  of  two  eggs  well  beaten.  Mix  all  as 
quick  as  possible  ;  put  into  very  small  pattypans,  and 
bake  in  a  pretty  warm  oven  under  twenty  minutes. 

FRUITS,  TO  KEEP. 

Oranges  or  Lemons ,  for  Puddings ,  ^c. 
When  you  squeeze  the  fruits, throw  the  outside  in 
■water  without  the  pulp.  Let  them  remain  in  the 
same  a  fortnight,  adding  no  more.  Boil  them  there-, 
in  till  tender ;  strain  it  from  them,  and  when  they  are 
tolerably  dry,  throw  them  into  any  old  jar  of  candy 
you  may  have  remaining  from  old  sweetmeats  ;  or  if 
you  have  none,  boil  a  small  quantity  of  syrup  of 
common  loaf  sugar  and  water,  and  put  over  them. 
In  a  week  or  ten  days  boil  them  gently  in  it  till  they 
look  clear,  and  that  they  may  be  covered  with  it  in 
the  jar.  You  may  cut  each  half  of  the  fruit  in  two, 
and  they  will  occupy  small  space. 

To  preserve  Gooseberries. 
Before  they  become  too  large,  let  them  be  gath- 
ered ;  and  take  care  not  to  cut  them  in  taking  off 
the  stalks  and  buds.     Fill  wide  mouthed  bottles  j 
put  the  corks  loosely  in,  and  set  the  bottles  up  to 


188  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

the  neck  in  water  in  a  boiler.  When  the  fruit 
looks  scalded,  take  them  out ;  and  when  perfectly- 
cold,  cork  close,  and  rosin  the  top.  Dig  a  trench 
in  a  part  of  the  garden  least  used,  sufficiently  deep 
for  all  the  bottles  to  stand,  and  the  earth  be  thrown 
over,  to  cover  them  a  foot  and  a  half.  When  a 
frost  comes  on,  a  little  fresh  litter  from  the  stable 
will  prevent  the  ground  from  hardening,  so  that  the 
fruit  cannot  be  dug  up.  Or,  scald  as  above  ;  when 
cold,  fill  the  bottles  with  cold  water  ;  cork  them, 
and  keep  them  in  a  damp,  or  dry  place  :  they  will 
not  be  spoiled. 

Another  way. 
In  the  size  and  preparatijon  as  above.  When 
done,  have  boiling  water  ready,  either  in  a  boiler 
or  large  kettle,  and  into  it  put  as  much  rock  alum 
as  will,  when  dissolved,  harden  the  water,  which 
you  will  taste  by  a  little  roughness  :  if  there  be  top 
much  it  will  spoil  the  fruit.  Put  as  many  goose- 
berries into  a  large  sieve  as  will  lie  at  the  bottom 
without  covering  one  another.  Hold  the  sieve  in 
the  water  till  the  fruit  begins  to  look  scalded  on  the 
eutside :  then  turn  them  gently  out  of  the  sieve  on 
a  cloth  on  the  dresser :  cover  them  with  another 
cloth,  and  put  some  more  to  be  scalded  ;  and  so  on 
till  all  shall  be  finished.  Observe  not  to  put  one 
quantity  on  another,  or  they  will  become  too  soft. 
The  next  day  pick  out  any  bad  or  broken  ones, 
bottle  the  rest,  and  fill  up  the  bottles  with  the  alum 
water  in  which  they  were  scalded  :  which  must  be 


FRUITS.  189 

kept  in  the  bottles  ;  for  if  left  in  the  kettle,  or  in 
a  glazed  pan,  it  will  spoil.     Stop  them  close. 

Note.    The  water  must  boil  all  the  time  the  pro- 
cess  is  carr)'ing  on.     Gooseberries,  done  this  way, 
make  as  fine  tarts  as  fresh  off  the  trees. 
Another  <way. 

In  dry  weather  pick  the  gooseberries  that  are  full 
grown,  but  not  ripe  :  top  and  tail  them,  and  put  into 
open  mouthed  bottles.  Gently  cork  them  with  new 
velvet  corks  ;  put  them  in  the  oven  when  the  bread 
is  drawn,  and  let  them  stand  till  shrunk  a  quarter 
part  :  take  them  out  of  the  oven,  and  immediately 
beat  the  corks  in  tight  :  cut  off  the  tops,  and  rosin 
down  close.  Set  them  in  a  ^rj  place  ;  and  if  well 
secured  from  air  they  will  keep  the  year  round. 

If  gathered  in  the  damp,  or  the  gooseberries' 
skins  are  the  least  cut  in  taking  off  the  stalks  and 
buds,  they  will  mould. 

Currants  and  damsons  may  be  done  the  same. 
To  keep  Currants. 

The  bottles  being  perfectly  clean  and  dry,  let 
the  cun-ants  be  cut  from  the  large  stalks  with  the 
smallest  bit  of  stalk  to  each,  that,  the  fruit  not  be- 
ing wounded,  no  moisture  may  be  among  them.  It 
is  necessar)^  to  gather  them  when  the  weather  is 
quite  dry  ;  and  if  the  servant  can  be  depended  up- 
on, it  is  best  to  cut  them  under  the  trees,  and  let 
them  drop  gently  into  the  bottle?. 

Stop  up  the  bottles  with  cork  and  rosin,  and  put 
them  into  the  trench  in  the  garden  with  the  neck 


190  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

downwards.     Sticks  should  be  placed  opposite  to 
where  each  sort  of  fruit  begins. 

Note,  The  directions  for  gooseberries  in  case 
of  frost. 

Cherries  and  damsons  keep  in  the  same  way. 

Currants  may  be  scalded,  and  kept  with  or  with" 
out  sugar,  as  directed  for  gooseberriest 

To  keep  Codlins  for  several  months. 

Gather  codlins  at  midsummer  of  a  middling 
size  :  put  them  into  an  earthen  pan  :  pour  boiling 
water  over  them,  and  cover  the  pan  with  cabbage- 
leaves.  Keep  them  by  the  fire  till  they  would  peel, 
but  do  not  peel  them ;  then  pour  the  water  off  till 
both  are  quite  cold.  Place  the  codHns  then  in  a 
stone  jar  with  a  smallish  mouth,  and  pour  on  them 
the  water  that  scalded  them.  Cover  the  pot  with 
bladder  wetted,  and  tied  very  close,  and  then  over 
it  coarse  paper  tied  again. 

It  is  best  to  keep  them  in  small  jars,  such  as  will 
be  used  at  once  when  opened. 

To  hcep  Damsons  for  ivinter  Pies. 
Put  them  in  small  stone  jars,  or  wide  mouthed 
bottles  :  set  them  up  to  their  necks  in  a  boiler  of 
cold  water,  and  lighting  a  fire  under,  scald  them. 
Next  day,  when  perfectly  cold,  fill  up  with  spring 
water.     Cover  them. 

yl not  her  ivay. 
Boil  one  third  as  much  sugar  as  fruit  v>'ith  it,  over 
a  slow  fire,  till  tlie  juice  adheres  to  the  fruit,  and 
form'5  a  jam.      Keep  it  in  small  jars  in  a  dry  place. 


FRUITS.  191 

If  too  sweet,  mix  with  it  some  of  the  fruit  that  is 
done  without  sugar. 

Another  ivay. 
Choose  steep  pots  if  you  can  get  them,  which  are 
©f  equal   size   top  and  bottom    (they  should  hold 
eight  or  nine  pounds  :)  put  the  fruit  in  about  a  quar- 
ter up,  then  strew  in  a  quarter  of  the  sugar,  then 
another  quantity  of  fruit,  and  so  till  aU  of  both  are 
in.     The  proportion  of  sugar  is  to  be  three  pounds 
to  nine  pounds  of  fruit.      Set  the  jars  in  the  oven, 
and  bake  the  fruit  quite  through.     When  cold,  put 
a  piece  of  clean  scraped  stick  into  the  middle  of  the 
jar,  and  let  the  upper  part  stand  above  the  top  ; 
then  pour  melted  muttonsuet  over  the  top,  full  half 
an  inch   thick,  having  previously  covered  the  fruit 
with  white   paper.      Keep  the  jars  in  a  cold  dry 
place,  and  use  the  suet  as  a  cover,  which  you  will 
draw  up  by  the  stick  ;  minding  to  leave  a  little 
forked  branch  to  it  to  prevent  its  slipping  out. 
Obsewations  on  Snveetmeats, 
Sweetmeats  should  be  kept  in  a  very  dry  place. 
Unless  they  have  a  very  small  proportion  of  sugar, 
a  warm  one  does  not  hurt  j  but  when  not  properly 
boiled,  that  is,  long  enough,  but  not  quick,  heat 
makes  them  ferment,  and  damp  causes  them  to  grow 
mouldy.     They  should  be  looked  at  two  or  three 
times   in  the  first  two  months,  that  they  may  be 
gently  boiled  again,  if  not  likely  to  keep. 

It  is  necessary  to  obsen^e,  that  sugar  being  boiled 
more  or  less,  constitutes  the  chief  art  of  the  confec. 


i92  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

tioner ;  and  those  who  are  not  practised  in  this  know- 
ledge, and  only  preserve  in  a  plain  way  for  family 
use,  are  not  aware  that,  in  two  or  three  minutes,  a 
syrup  over  the  fire  will  pass  from  one  gradation  to 
another,  called,  by  the  confectioners,  degrees  of 
boihng,  of  which  there  are  six,  and  those  subdivided. 
But  I  am  not  versed  in  the  minutia  ;  and  only  make 
the  observation  to  guard  against  under  boiling, 
which  prevents  sweetmeats  from  keeping ;  and 
quick  boihng  and  long,  which  brings  them  to  candy. 

Attention,  without  much  practice,  will  enable  a 
person  to  do  any  of  the  following  sorts  of  sweet- 
meats, &c.  and  they  are  as  much  as  is  wanted  in  a 
private  family  ;  and  the  higher  articles  of  preserved 
fruits  may  be  bought  at  less  expense  than  made. 

A  pan  should  be  kept  for  the  purpose  of  preserv- 
ing, of  double  blocktin.  A  bow  handle  opposite 
the  straight  one,  for  safety,  will  do  very  well ;  and, 
if  put  by  nicely  cleaned,  in  a  dry  place,  when  done 
with,  will  last  for  several  years.  Those  of  copper 
or  bfass  are  improper,  as  the  tinning  wears  out  by 
the  scraping  of  the  sweetmeat  ladle.  There  is  a 
new  sort  of  iron,  with  a  strong  tinning,  which  prom- 
ises to  wear  long.  Sieves  and  spoons  should  be 
kept  Hkewise  for  sweet  things. 

To  clarify  Sugar. 

Break  as  much  as  required  in  large  lumps,  and 
put  a  pound  to  half  a  pint  of  water,  in  a  bowl,  and 
it  will  dissolve  better  than  when  broken  small.  Set 
it  over  the  fire,  and  the  wellwhipt  white  of  an  egg  : 


FRUITS.  193 

let  it  boil  up,  and,  when  ready  to  run  over,  pour  a 
little  cold  water  in  it  to  give  it  a  check  ;  but  when 
it  rises  a  second  time,  take  it  off  the  fire,  and  set  it 
by  in  the  pan  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour :  during 
which  time  the  foulness  will  sink  to  the  bottom,  and 
leave  a  black  scum  on  the  top  j  which  take  off 
gently  with  a  skimmer,  and  pour  the  syrup  into  a 
vessel  very  quickly  from  the  sediment. 
To  dry  Cherries,  luith  Sugar. 

Stone  six  pounds  of  Kentish  ;  put  them  into  a 
preservingpan,  with  two  pounds  of  loaf  sugar 
pounded  and  strewed  among  them :  simmer  till  they 
begin  to  shrivel,  then  strain  them  from  the  juice  ; 
lay  them  on  a  hot  hearth,  or  in  an  oven,  when  ei- 
ther are  cool  enough  to  dry  without  baking  them. 

The  same  syrup  will  do  another  six  pounds  of 
fruit* 

To  dry  Cherries  ivithout  Sugar. 

Stone  and  set  them  over  the  fire  in  the  preserv- 
ingpan :  let  them  simmer  in  their  own  liquor,  and 
shake  them  in  the  pan.  Put  them  by  in  China 
common  dishes.  Next  day  give  them  another  scald, 
and  put  them,  when  cold,  on  sieves  to  dry,  in  an 
oven  of  attempered  heat  as  above.  Twice  heating, 
an  hour  each  time,  will  do  them.  Put  them  in  a 
box,  with  a  paper  between  each  layer. 
Excellent  Sweetmeals  for  Tarts,  when  Fruit  is  plen^ 

Divide  two  pounds  of  apricots  when  just  ripe, 
and  take  out  and  break  the  stones.    Put  the  kernel^! 


194  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

without  their  skins  to  the  fruit :  add  to  it  three 
pounds  of  green  gageplums,  and  two  pounds  and 
a  half  of  lump  sugar.  Simmer  until  the  fruit  be 
a  clear  j^m.  The  sugar  should  be  broken  in  large 
pieces,  and  just  dipped  in  water,  and  added  to  the 
fruit  over  a  slow  fire.  Observe  that  it  does  not 
boil,  and  skim  it  well.  If  the  sugar  be  clarified  it 
will  make  the  jam  better.  Put  it  into  small  pots  ; 
in  which,  all  sweetmeats  keep  best. 

CurrantjeUy^  red  or  black. 

Strip  the  fruit,  and  in  a  stone  jar  stew  them  in 
a  saucepan  of  water,  or  by  boiling  it  on  the  hot 
hearth,  strain  off  the  liquor,  and  to  every  pint 
weigh  a  pound  of  loaf  sugar.  Put  the  latter  in 
large  lumps  into  it,  in  a  stone  or  China  vessel,  till 
nearly  dissolved ;  then  put  it  in  a  preserving  pan. 
Simmer  and  skim  as  necessary.  When  it  will  jelly 
on  plate,  put  it  in  small  jars  or  glasses. 
Raspberry  Jam. 

Weigh  equal  quantities  of  fruit  and  sugar.  Put 
the  former  into  a  preservingpan  ;  boil  and  break 
it ;  stir  constantly,  and  let  it  boil  very  quickly. 
When  most  of  the  juice  is  wasted,  add  the  sugar, 
and  simmer  to  a  fine  jam. 

This  way  the  jam  is  greatly  superior  in  colour 
and  flavour  to  that  which  is  made  by  putting  the 
sugar  in  at  first. 

Raspberry  Jam  another  ivay. 

Put  the  fruit  in  a  jar  into  a  kettle  of  water,  or  on 
a  hot  hearth,  till  the  juice  will  run  from  it ;  then 


FRUITS.  19i 

take  away  a  quarter  of  a  pint  from  every  pound  of 
fruit.  Boil  and  bruise  it  half  an  hour,  then  put  in 
the  weight  of  the  fruit  in  sugar,  and,  adding  the  same 
quantity  of  currantjuice,  boil  it  to  a  strong  jelly. 

The  raspberryjuice  will  serve  to  put  into  brandy  ; 
or  may  be  boiled,  with  its  weight  in  sugar,  for  mak- 
ing the  jelly  for  raspberrj'ice  or  cream. 

Raspberry  jelly,  for  Ices  or  Creams. 

Do  the  fruit  as  directed  for  currantjelly,  and  use 
in  the  same  proportion  of  sugar  and  liquor. 
Raspberry  Cahcs. 

Pick  out  any  bad  raspbcmes  that  are  among  the 
fruit :  weigh  and  boil  what  quantity  you  please  ; 
and  when  mashed,  and  the  liquor  is  wasted,  put  to 
it  sugar  the  weight  of  the  fruit  you  first  put  into 
the  pan.  Mix  it  well  off  the  fire,  until  perfectly 
dissolved  ;  then  put  it  on  China  plates,  and  dry  it 
in  the  sun.  As  soon  as  the  top  part  dries,  cut  with 
the  cover  of  a  canister  into  small  cakes,  turn  them 
on  fresh  plates,  and,  when  dry,  put  them  in  boxes 
with  layers  of  paper. 

Apricot  Cheese. 

Weigh  an  equal  quantity  of  pared  fruit  and 
sugar :  wet  the  latter  a  very  little,  and  let  it  boil 
quickly,  or  the  colour  will  be  spoiled  :  blanch  the 
kernels,  and  add  to  it.  Twenty  or  thirty  minutes 
will  boil  it.  Put  it  in  small  pots  or  cups  half  filled. 
Apricots  or  Peaches  In  Brandy. 

Wipe,  weigh,    and    pick   the    fruit,    and   have 
ready  a  quarter  of  the  weight  of  fine  sugar  in  fina 
t2 


195  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

powder.  Put  the  fruit  into  an  icepot  that  shuts 
very  close  :  throw  the  sugar  over  it,  and  then  cover 
the  fruit  with  brandy.  Between  the  top  and  cover 
of  the  pot,  put  a  piece  of  double  cap  paper.  Set 
the  pot  into  a  saucepan  of  water  till  the  brandy  be 
as  hot  as  you  can  possibly  bear  to  put  your  finger 
in,  but  must  not  boil.  Put  the  fruit  into  a  jar,  and 
pour  the  brandy  on  it.  When  cold,  put  a  bladder 
over,  and  tie  it  down  tight. 

Cherries  In  Brandy. 
Weigh  the  finest  morellas,  having  cut  off  half  the 
fitalk  :  prick  them  with  a  new  needle,  and  drop 
them  into  a  jar  or  widemouthed  bottle.  Pound  three 
quarters  the  weight  of  sugar  or  white  candy  :  strew- 
over,  fill  up  with  brandy,  and  tie  a  bladder  over. 
To  prepare  Oranges  to  put  into  Orange  Puddings, 
Put  twelve  Seville  oranges  iu  water,  and  chang-e 
them  three  days.  Boil  them  in  the  least  water  till 
tender  :  scoop  out  the  pulp,  and  pick  out  the  ker-. 
jiels  ;  then,  in  a  marble  mortar,  beat  the  oranges, 
then  the  pulp  separately  ;  and,  after,  both  together. 
To  every  poii:id  put  a  pound  and  a  half  of  sugar, 
pounded  and  sifted,  and  Meat  to  a  paste.  Keep  it 
in  small  gallipots,  and  cover  with  white  paper  dip- 
ped in  brandy. 

To  dry  Apricots  in  half. 

Pare   thin  and  halve   four  pounds   of  apricots, 

weighing  them  after  :  put  them  in  a  dish,  and  strew 

among  them  three  pounds  of  sugar  in  the  finest 

powder.     When  it  melts,  set  the  fruit  over  a  stove 


FRUITS.  197 

to  do  very  gentlyi  As  each  piece  becomes  tender, 
take  it  out  and  put  it  into  a  China  bowl.  When 
all  are  done,  and  the  boihng  heat  a  httle  abated, 
pour  the  syrup  over  them.  In  a  day  or  two  remove 
the  syrup,  leaving  only  a  little  in  each  half.  In  a 
day  or  two  more  turn  them  ;  and  so  continue  daily 
till  quite  dry,  in  the  sun  or  a  warm  place.  Keep 
in  boxes  with  layers  of  paper. 

To  pre  serine  Apricots  in  Jelly. 

Pare  the  fruit  'very  thin,  and  stone  it.  Weigh  au 
equal  quantity  of  sugar  in  fine  powder  and  strew 
over  it.  Next  day  boil  very  gently  till  they  are 
clear  :  move  them  into  a  bowl,  and  pour  the  hquor 
over.  The  following  day  pour  the  liquor  to  a  quart 
of  codlin  liquor,  made  by  boiling  and  straining,  and 
a  pound  of  fine  sugar  :  let  it  boil  quickly  till  it  will 
jelly  :  put  the  fruit  into  it,  and  give  one  boil ;  and 
having  skimmed  well,  put  into  small  pots. 
ylpplejelly  for  the  aho've-y  or  any  sort  of  Siveetmeats. 

Let  apples  be  pared,  quartered,  and  cored  :  put 
tliem  into  a  stewpan  with  as  much  water  as  will 
cover  them  :  boil  as  fast  as  possible.  When  the 
fruit  is  all  in  a  mash,  add  a  quart  of  water  :  boil 
half  an  hour  more,  and  run  through  a  jellybag. 

If  in  summ.er,  codlins  are  best  :  in  September, 
golden  rennets  or  winter  pippins. 

To  preserve  green  Apricots. 

Lay  vine  or  apricot  leaves  at  the  bottom  of  youi" 
pan,  then  fruit,  and  so  alternately  till  full,  the  up- 
per layer  being  thick  v/ith   leaves  :  then  fill  with 


198  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

spring  water,  and  cover  down,  that  no  steam  may 
come  out.  Set  the  pan  at  a  distance  from  the  fire, 
that  in  four  or  five  hours  they  may  be  only  soft, 
but  not  cracked.  Make  a  thin  syrup  of  some  of 
the  water,  and  drain  the  fruit.  When  both  are 
cold,  put  the  fruit  into  the  pan  and  the  syrup  to  it ; 
put  the  pan  at  a  proper  distance  on  the  fire  till  the 
apricots  green,  but  on  no  account  boil  or  crack  ; 
remove  them  very  carefully  into  a  pan  with  the  syrup 
for  two  or  three  days,  then  pour  off  as  much  of  it 
as  will  be  necessary,  and  boil  with  more  sugar  to 
make  a  rich  syrup,  and  put  a  little  sliced  ginger  in- 
to it.  When  cold,  and  the  thin  syrup  has  all  been 
drained  from  the  fruit,  pour  the  thick  over  it. 
To  preserve  Strawberries  whole. 
Get  the  finest  scarlets  before  they  are  too  ripe, 
with  their  stalks  kept  on  ;  lay  them  separately  on 
a  China  dish  ;  beat  and  sift  twice  their  weight  of 
doubly  refined  sugar  over  them  ;  then  bruise  a  few 
ripe  strawberries,  with  their  weight  of  doubly  re- 
fined sugar,  in  a  China  bason,  cover  it  close,  and  set 
it  in  a  saucepan  of  boiling  water  which  will  just 
hold  it  till  the  juice  comes  out  and  becomes  thick ; 
strain  it  through  muslin  into  a  sweetmeatpan,  boil 
it  up  and  skim  it.  When  cold,  put  in  the  straw- 
berries, set  them  over  a  stove  till  milk  warm,  then 
take  the  pan  off  till  they  are  cold,  set  them  on 
again,  and  let  them  become  rather  hotter,  and  so 
for  several  times  till  they  become  clear,  but  the  hot- 
test degree  must  not  come  to  a  boil.  When  cold, 
put  them  into  glasses,  and  pour  the  syrup  over. 


FRUITS.  159 

Another  ivay. 
Take  equal  weight  of  the  fruit  and  doubly  re- 
fined sugar,  lay  the  former  in  a   large   dish,  and 
aprinkle  half  the  sugar  in  fine  powder  over  ;  give  a 
gentle  shake  to  the  dish,  that  the  sugar  may  touch 
the  under  side  of  the  fruit.     Next  day  make  a  thin 
syrup  with  the  remainder  of  the  sugar,  and  instead 
of  water,  allow   one   pint  of  red  currant  juice  to 
every  three  pounds  of  strav/berries  ;  in  this  simmer 
them  until  sufficiently  jellied.     Choose  the  largest 
scarlets,  or  others,  when  not  dead  ripe. 
Cherry  Jam. 
To  twelve  pounds  of  Kentish  or  Duke  cherries, 
when  ripe,  weigh  one  pound  of  sugar  ;  break  the 
stones  of  part  and  blanch  them  ;  then  put  them  to 
the  fruits  and  sugar,  and  boil  all  gently  till  the  jam 
come  clear  from  the  pan.     Pour  it  into  China  plates* 
to  come  up   dry  to  table.      Keep   in  boxes  with 
white  paper  between. 

Orange  Marmalade, 
Rasp  the  oranges,  cut  out  the  pulp,  then  boil  the 
rinds  very  tender,  and  beat  fine  in  a  marble  mortar. 
Boil  three  pounds  of  loaf  sugar  in  a  pint  of  water, 
skim  it,  and  add  a  pound  of  the  rind  ;  boil  fast  till 
the  syrup  is  very  thick,  but  stir  it  carefully  j  then 
put  a  pint  of  the  pulp  and  juice,  the  seeds  having 
been  removed,  and  a  pint  of  apple  liquor ;  boil  all 
gently  until  well  jellied,  which  it  will  be  in  about 
half  an  hour.  Put  it  into  small  pots. 
Lemon  marmalade  do  in  the  same  way. 


200  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

Quince  Marmalade. 

Pare  and  quarter  quinces,  weigh  an  equal  quan- 
tity of  sugar  ;  to  four  pounds  of  the  latter  put  a 
quart  of  water,  boil,  and  skim,  and  keep  ready 
against  four  pounds  of  quinces  are  tolerably  tender 
by  the  following  mode  :  lay  them  into  a  stone  jar, 
with  a  teacup  of  water  at  the  bottom,  and  pack 
them  with  a  little  sugar  strewed  between  ;  cover 
the  jar  close,  and  set  it  on  a  stove  or  cool  oven,  and 
let  them  soften  till  the  colour  become  red,  then 
pour  the  fruit,  syrup,  and  a  quart  of  quince  juice 
into  a  preservingpan,  and  boil  all  together  till  the 
marmalade  be  completed,  breaking  the  lumps  of 
fruit  with  the  preservingladle. 

This  fruit  is  so  hard,  that  if  it  be  not  done  as 
above,  it  requires  a  great  deal  of  time. 

N.  B.  Stewing  quinces  in  a  jar,  and  then  squeez. 
ing  them  through  a  cheesecloth,  is  the  best  meth- 
od of  obtaining  the  juice  to  add  as  above. 
To  dry  Cherries  ;  the  best  way. 

To  every  five  pounds  of  cherries  stoned,  weigh 
one  of  sugar  doubly  refined.  Put  the  fruit  into  the 
preservingpan  with  'very  little  water,  both  made, 
scalding  hot  ;  take  the  fruit  immediately  out  and 
dry  them,  put  them  into  the  pan  again,  strewing 
the  sugar  betvi^een  each  layer  of  cherries  ;  let  it 
stand  to  melt,  then  set  the  pan  on  the  fire,  and 
make  it  scalding  hot  as  before  ;  take  it  off,  and  re- 
peat this  thrice  with  the  sugar.  Drain  them  from 
the  syrup,  and  lay  them  singly  to  dry  on  dishes, 


FRUITS.  201 

in  the  sun  or  on  a  stove.  When  dry,  put  them  in- 
to a  sieve,  dip  it  into  a  pan  of  cold  v^-ater,  and  draw 
it  instantly  out  again,  and  pour  them  on  a  fine  soft 
cloth  ;  dry  them,  and  set  them  once  more  in  the 
hot  sun,  or  on  a  stove.  Keep  them  in  a  box,  with 
layers  of  white  waper,  in  a  dry  place. 

This  way  is  the  best  to  give  plumpness  to  the 
fruit,  as  well  as  colour  and  flavour. 

Observe.  When  any  sweetmeats  are  directed  to 
be  dried  in  the  sun  or  in  a  stove,  it  will  be  best  in 
private  families,  where  there  is  not  a  regular  stove 
for  the  purpose,  to  place  them  in  the  sun  on  flag- 
stones, which  reflect  the  heat,  and  place  a  garden 
glass  over  them  to  keep  insects  off :  or  if  put  in  an 
oven,  to  take  care  not  to  let  it  be  too  warm,  and 
watch  that  they  do  properly  and  slowly. 
Gooseberry  Jam,  for  Tarts, 

Put  twelve  pounds  of  the  red  hairy  gooseberries, 
when  ripe  and  gathered  in  dry  weather,  into  a  pre- 
servingpan  with  a  pint  of  currantjuice,  drawn  as 
for  jelly  ;  let  them  boil  pretty  quick,  and  beat  them 
with  the  spoon  ;  when  they  begin  to  break,  put  to 
them  six  pounds  of  pure  white  Lisbon  sugar,  and 
simmer  slowly  to  a  jam.  It  requires  long  boiling, 
or  will  not  keep  ;  but  is  an  excellent  and  reasona- 
ble thing  for  tarts  or  puffs.  Look  at  it  in  two  or 
three  days,  and  if  the  syrup  and  fruit  separate,  the 
whole  must  be  boiled  longer.  Be  careful  it  does 
-not  burn  to  the  bottom. 


202  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

Another, 
Gather  your  gooseberries  (tKe  clear  white  or 
green  sort)  when  ripe ;  top  and  tail,  and  weigh 
them  :  a  pound  to  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  fine 
sugar,  and  half  a  pint  of  water ;  boil  and  skim  the 
sugar  and  water,  then  put  the  fruit,  and  boil  gently 
till  clear  ;  then  break  and  put  into  small  pots. 
White  Gooseberry  Jam, 
Gather  the  finest  white  gooseberries,  or  green  if 
you  choose,  when  just  ripe  ;  top  and  tail  them. 
To  each  pound  put  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  fine 
sugar,  and  half  a  pint  of  water.  Boil  and  clarify 
the  sugar  in  the  water  as  directed  under  that  arti- 
cle, then  add  the  fruit ;  simmer  gently  till  clear, 
then  break  it,  and  in  a  few  mmutes  put  the  jam 
into  small  pots. 

Barberries  for  Tartlets, 
Pick  barberries,  that  have  no   stones,  from  the 
talks,  and  to  every  pound  weigh  three  quarters  of 
a  pound  of  lump  sugar.     Put  the  fruit  into  a  stone 
jar,  and  either  set  it  on  a  hot  hearth  or  in  a  sauce- 
pan of  water,  and  let  them  simmer  very  slowly  till 
soft ;  put  them  and  the  sugar  into  a  preservingpan, 
and  boil  them  gently  fifteen  minutes. 
Use  no  metal  but  silver. 

Barberry  Drops. 
The  black  tops  must  be  cut  off,  then  roast  the 


fruit  before  the  fire,  till  soft  enough  to  pulp  with  a 
silver  spoon  through  a  sieve  into  a  China  bason  ; 
then  set  the  bason  on  a  saucepan  of  water,  the  top 


FRUITS.  205 

of  which  will  just  fit  it,  or  on  a  hot  hearth,  and  stir 
it  till  it  grows  thick.  When  cold,  put  to  every  pint 
one  pound  and  a  half  of  sugar,  the  finest  doubly  re- 
jflned,  pounded  and  sifted  through  a  lav/n  sieve,  which 
must  be  covered  with  a  fine  linen,  to  prevent  its 
wasting  while  sifting.  Beat  the  sugar  and  juice  to- 
gether three  hours  and  a  half  if  a  large  quantity,  but 
two  and  a  half  for  less:  then  drop  it  on  sheets  of  white 
thick  paper,  the  size  of  the  drops  sold  in  the  shops. 

Some  fruit  is  not  so  sour,  and  then  less  sugar  is 
necessary.  To  know  if  there  be  enough,  mix  till 
well  incorporated,  and  then  drop  :  if  it  run,  there 
is  not  enough  sugar,  and  if  there  is  too  much  it  will 
be  rough.  A  dry  room  will  suffice  to  dry  them. 
No  metal  must  touch  the  juice  but  the  point  of  a 
knife,  just  to  take  the  drop  off  the  end  of  the  wood- 
en spoon,  and  then  as  little  as  possible. 
Ginger  Drops^  a  good  Stomachic. 

Beat  two  ounces  of  fresh  candied  orange  in  a 
mortar,  with  a  little  sugar,  to  a  paste  ;  then  mix 
one  ounce  of  powder  of  white  ginger  with  one 
pound  of  loaf  sugar.  Wet  the  sugar  with  a  little 
water,  and  boil  altogether  to  a  candy,  and  drop  it 
on  paper  the  size  of  mint  drops. 

Peppermint  Drops. 

Pound  and  sift  four  ounces  of  doubly  refined  su- 
gar, beat  it  with  the  whites  of  two  eggs  till  perfect- 
ly smooth  ;  then  add  sixty  drops  of  oil  of  pepper- 
mint, beat  it  well,  and  drop  on  white  paper,  and  dry 
at  a  distance  from  the  fire» 


204  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 


Lemon  Drops* 

Grate  three  large  lemons,  with  a  large  piece  of 
doubly  refined  sugar ;  then  scrape  the  sugar  into 
a  plate,  add  half  a  teaspoonful  of  flour,  mix  well, 
and  beat  it  into  a  light  paste  with  the  white  of  an 
^%%»  Drop  it  upon  white  paper,  and  put  them  in- 
to a  moderate  oven  on  a  tin  plate. 

A  beautiful  Red,  to  stain  Jellies,  Ices  or  Cakes. 

Boil  fifteen  grains  of  cochineal  in  the  finest  pow- 
der, with  a  drachm  and  a  half  of  cream  of  tartar,  in 
half  a  pint  of  water,  very  slowly,  half  an  hour. 
Add  in  boihng  a  bit  of  alum  the  size  of  a  pea.  Or 
use  beetroot  sliced,  and  some  liquor  poured  over. 

For  white,  use  almonds,  finely  powdered,  with 
a  little  drop  of  water  ;  or  use  cream. 

For  yellow,  yelks  of  eggs,  or  a  bit  of  saffron 
steeped  in  the  liquor  and  squeezed. 

For  green,  pound  spinachleaves,   or  beetleaves, 
express  the  juice,  and  boil  in  a  teacupful  in  a  sauce- 
pan of  water,  to  take  off  the  rawness. 
Danison  Cheese. 

Bake  or  boil  the  fruit  in  a  stone  jar,  in  a  sauce- 
pan of  water,  or  on  a  hot  hearth.  Pour  off  some 
of  the  juice,  and  to  every  two  pounds  of  fruit,  weigh 
half  a  pound  of  sugar..  Set  the  fruit  over  a  fire  in 
the  pan,  let  it  boil  quickly  till  it  begins  to  look  dry  ; 
take  out  the  stones  and  add  the  sugar,  stir  it  well 
in,  and  simmer  two  hours  slowly,  then  boil  it 
quickly  half  an  hour,  till  the  sides  of  the  pan  can- 
dy ;  pCLir  tlic  jam  then  into  pottingpans  or  dishes. 


IRUITS.  205 

about  an  inch  thick,  so  that  it  may  cut  finn.  If 
the  skins  be  dishked,  then  the  juice  is  not  to  be 
taken  out ;  but  after  the  first  process,  the  fruit  is  to 
be  pulped  through  a  ver}^  coarse  sieve  with  the  juice, 
and  managed  as  above.  The  stones  are  to  be  crack- 
ed, or  some  of  them,  and  the  kernels  boiled  in  the 
jam.  All  the  juice  may  be  left  in  and  boiled  to 
evaporate,  but  do  not  add  the  sugar  until  it  has  done 
30.  The  above  looks  well  in  shapes. 
Biscuit  of  Fruit. 

To  the  pulp  of  any  scalded  fruit,  put  equal  weight 
of  sugar  sifted,  beat  it  two  hours,  then  put  it  into 
little  white  paper  forms  :  dry  in  a  cool  oven,  turn 
the  next  day,  and  in  two  or  three  days  box  them. 
Magnum  Bonum  Plums.  Excellent  as  a  Sweetmeat, 
or  in  TartSi  though  mery  had  to  eat  raw. 

Prick  them  with  a  needle,  to  prevent  bursting, 
simmer  them  very  gently  in  a  thin  syrup  ;  put  them 
in  a  China  bowl,  and  when  cold  pour  it  over.  Let 
them  lie  three  days  ;  then  make  a  syrup  of  three 
pounds  of  sugar  to  five  of  fruit,  with  no  more  wa- 
ter than  hangs  to  large  lumps  of  the  sugar  dipped 
quickly,  and  instantly  brought  out.  Boil  the  plums 
in  this  fresh  syrup,  after  draining  the  first  from 
ttiem.  Do  them  very  gently  till  they  are  clear, 
and  the  syrup  adheres  to  them.  Put  them  one  by 
one  into  small  pots,  and  pour  the  liquor  over. 
Those  you  may  Hke  to  dry,  keep  a  little  of  the 
syrup  for,  longer  in  the  pan,  and  boil  it  quickly, 
then  give  the  fruit  one  more  warm  :  drain,  and  put 


-06  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

them  to  dry.  on  plates,  in  a  cool  oven.  These 
plums  are  apt  to  ferment,  if  not  boiled  in  two  syr- 
ups ;  the  former  will  sweeten  pies,  but  will  have 
too  much  acid  to  keep.  You  may  reserve  part  of 
it,  and  add  a  little  sugar,  to  do  those  that  are  to 
dry,  for  they  will  not  require  to  be  so  sweet,  as  if 
kept  wet,  and  will  eat  very  nicely  if  only  boiled  as 
much  as  those.  Do  not  break  them.  One  parcel 
may  be  done  after  another,  and  save  much  sugar. 
To  preserve  Grapes  in  Brandy, 

Put  some  close  bunches,  when  ripe,  but  not  over 
ready,  into  a  jar  :  strew  over  them  half  their  weight 
in  white  sugarcandy  pounded  :  prick  each  grape 
once  with  a  needle  ;  fill  up  with  brandy,  and  tie 
close.  They  look  beautifully  in  a  dessert. 
Gooseberry  Hops. 

Of  the  largest  green  walnut  kind,  take  and  cut 
the  bud  end  in  four  quarters,  leaving  the  stalk  end 
whole  :  pick  out  the  seeds,  and  with  a  strong  needle 
and  thread,  fasten  five  or  six  together,  by  running 
the  thread  through  the  bottoms,  till  they  are  of  the 
size  of  a  hop.  Lay  vineleaves  at  the  bottom  of  a 
tin  preservingpan  ;  cover  them  with  the  hops,  then 
a  layer  of  leaves,  and  so  on  ;  lay  a  good  many  on 
the  top,  then  fill  the  pan  with  water.  Stop  it  so  close 
down  that  no  steam  can  get  out  :  set  it  by  a  slow- 
fire  till  scalding  hot  ;  then  take  it  off  till  cold,  and 
so  do  till  on  opening  while  cold,  the  gooseberries 
are  of  a  good  green.  Then  drain  them  on  sieves, 
and  make  a  thin  syrup  of  a  pound  of  sugar,  to  a 


FRUITS.  i:07 

pint  of  water,  boil,  and  skim  it  well  ;  when  half 
cold,  put  in  the  fruit,  next  day  give  it  one  boil ;  do 
this  thrice.  If  the  hops  are  to  be  dried,  which  way 
they  eat  best,  and  look  well,  they  may  be  set 
to  dry  in  a  week'  :  but  if  to  be  kept  wet,  make  a 
syrup  in  the  above  proportions,  adding  a  slice  of 
ginger  in  boiling  ;  when  skimmed  and  clear,  give 
the  gooseberries  one  boil,  and  when  cold,  pour  it 
over  them.  If  the  first  syrup  be  found  too  sour,  a 
little  sugar  may  be  added  and  boiled  in  it,  before 
the  hops   that  are   for  drying,   have  their  last  boil. 

The  extra  syrup  will  serve  for  pies,  or  go  towards 
other  sweetmeats. 

A  Carmel  Co'ver  for  Siueet meats. 

Dissolve  eight  ounces  of  double  refined  sugar  in 
three  or  four  spoonfuls  of  water,  and  three  or  four 
drops  of  lemonjuice  ;  then  put  it  into  a  copper  un- 
tinned  skillet  ;  when  it  bolls  to  be  thick,  dip  the 
handle  of  a  spoon  in  it,  and  put  that  into  a  pint- 
bason  of  water,  squeeze  the  sugar  from  the  spoon  in- 
to it,  and  so  on  till  you  have  all  the  sugar.  Take  a  bit 
out  of  the  water,  and  if  it  snaps,  and  is  brittle  when 
cold,  it  is  done  enough  ;  but  only  let  it  be  three  parts 
cold,  v/hen  pour  the  water  from  trie  sugar,  and  hav- 
ing a  copper  form  oiled  well,  run  the  sugar  on  it,  in 
the  manner  of  a  mace,  and  when  cold  you  may  put  it 
on  the  dish  it  is  to  cover  ;  but  if  on  trial  the  sugar  is 
not  brittle,  pour  off  the  water,  and  return  it  into  the 
skillet  and  boil  it  again.  It  should  look  thick  like 
treacle,  but  of  a  bright  light  gold  colour. 

It  is  a  most  elegant  cover.  u  2 


SOS  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

Transparent  Marmalade, 
Cut  the  palest  Seville  oranges  in  quarters,  take 
the  pulp  out,  and  put  it  in  a  bason,  pick  out  the 
seeds  and  skins.  Let  the  outsides  soak  in  water 
with  a  little  salt  all  night,  then  boil  them  in  a  good 
quantity  of  spring  water  till  tender  ;  drain  and  cut 
them  in  very  thin  slices,  and  put  them  to  the  pulp  ; 
and  to  every  pound,  a  pound  and  a  half  of  double  re- 
fined sugar  beaten  fine  ;  boil  them  together  twenty 
minutes,  but  be  careful  not  to  break  the  slices.  If 
not  quite  clear,  simmer  five  or  six  minutes  longer. 
It  must  be  stirred  all  the  time  very  gently. 
When  cold,  put  it  into  glasses. 

To  preserve  Oranges  or  Lemons  in  Jelly, 
^,  Cut  a  hole  in  the  stalk  part,  the  size  of  a  shilling, 
and  with  a  blunt  small  knife  scrape  out  the  pulp 
quite  clear  without  cutting  the  rind.  Tie  each 
separately  in  muslin,  and  lay  them  in  spring  water 
two  days,  changing  twice  a  day  ;  in  the  last  boil 
them  tender  on  a  slow  fire.  Observe  that  there  is 
enough  at  first  to  allow  for  wasting,  as  they  must 
be  covered  to  the  last.  To  every  pound  of  orange, 
weigh  two  pounds  of  double  refined  sugar,  and  one 
pint  of  water  ;  boil  the  two  latter  together  with  the 
juice  of  the  orange  to  a  syrup,  and  clarify  it,  skim 
well,  and  let  it  stand  to  be  cold  ;  then  boil  the  flfuit 
in  the  syrup  half  an  hour  ;  if  not  clear,  do  this  dai- 
ly till  they  are  done. 

Pare  and  core  some  green  pippins,  and  boil  in  wa- 
ter till  it  tastes  strong  of  them  ;  do  not  break  them, 


FRUl  rs.  300 

only  gently  press  them  with  the  back  of  a  spoon. 
Strain  the  water  through  a  jellybag  till  quite  clear  ; 
then  to  every  pint  put  a  pound  of  double  refined 
sugar,  the  peel  and  juice  of  a  lemon,  and  boil  to  a 
strong  syrup.  Drain  off  the  syrup  from  tne  fruit, 
and  turning  the  whole  upwards  in  the  jar,  pour  the 
applejelly  over  it.  The  bits  cut  out  must  go  through 
the  same  process  with  the  fruit.  Cover  with  bran- 
dy paper. 

Orange  Chips. 
Cut  oranges  in  halves,  squeeze  the  juice  through 
a  sieve  ;  soak  the  peel  in  water,  next  day  boil  in  the 
same  till  tender,  drain  them,  and  slice  the  peels,  put 
them  to  the  juice,  weigh  as  much  sugar,  and  put  all 
together  into  a  broad  earthen  dish,  and  put  over 
the  fire  at  a  moderate  distance,  often  stirring  till  the 
chips  candy  ;  then  set  them  in  a  cool  room  to  Ary. 
They  will  not  be  so  under  three  weeks. 
Orange  Cakes. 
Cut  Seville  oranges  in  pieces,  take  out  the  seeds 
and  skins,  save  the  juice,  and  add  to  the  meat  of  the 
fruit,  after  having  beaten  it  quite  fine  in  a  mortar, 
in  the  proportion  of  a  pound  to  a  pound  and  a  half 
of  loaf  sugar  finely  beaten  first.     When  the  paste 
is  finely  mixed,  make  it  into  small  cakes,  and  dry 
them  on  China  plates  in  a  hot  room,  and  turn  them 
daily.     Do  not  let  them  be  too  dry. 

They  are  excellent  for  gouty  stomachs,  or  for 
travellers. 

The  peels  of  China  oranges,  soaked  a  night,  then 


i>10  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

The  peels  of  China  oranges,  soaked  a  night,  then 
drained  and  boiled  up  in  a  syrup  till  enough  to  be 
tender,  answer  for  common  puddings  extremely  well, 
and  are  of  no  value  ;  whereas  Seville  are  usually 
dear,  and  sometimes  cannot  be  had. 

To  preserve  Morella  Cherries, 

Gather  them  when  full  ripe,  and  perfectly  dry, 
take  off  the  stalks,  and  prick  them  with  a  new  nee- 
dle to  prevent  bursting.  Weigh  to  every  pound, 
one  and  a  half  of  sugar,  beat  part,  and  strew  over 
them  ;  let  them  lie  all  night ;  dissolve  the  rest  in 
half  a  pint  of  currantjuice,  set  it  over  the  fire,  and 
put  in  the  cherries,  and  sugar  that  hangs  about 
them,  give  them  a  scald,  then  put  them  in  a  China 
bowl ;  next  day  give  them  another  scald,  then  take 
them  carefully  out,  boil  the  syrup  till  it  is  thick, 
and  pour  it  on  them  ;  look  at  it  in  a  day  or  two, 
and  if  too  thin,  boil  it  more,  but  gently. 
To  keep  Lemonju'ice. 

Buy  the  fruit  when  cheap,  keep  it  in  a  cool  place 
until  the  colour  becomes  very  yellow  :  cut  the  peel 
off  some,  and  roll  them  under  your  hand  to  make 
them  part  with  the  juice  more  readily  ;  others  you 
may  leave  unpared  for  grating,  v*'hen  the  pulp 
shall  be  taken  out  and  dried.  Squeeze  the  juice 
into  a  China  bason,  then  strain  it  through  some 
linen  which  will  not  permit  the  least  pulp  to  pass. 
Have  ready  some  half  and  quarter  ounce  phials  per- 
tectly  dry  :  fill  them  with  the  juice  so  near  to  the 
top  as  only  to  admit  half  a  teaspoonful  of  sweet- 
oil  into  each  ;  or  a  little  more,  if  for  larger  bottles. 


Cork  the  bottles,  and  set  them  upright  in  a  cool 
place. 

When  you  want  lemonjuice,open  such  a  sized  bot- 
tle as  you  shall  use  in  two  or  three  days,  wind  some 
clean  cotton  round  a  skewer,  and  dipping  it  in,  the 
oil  will  be  attracted  ;  and  when  all  shall  be  removed, 
the  juice  will  be  as  fine  as  when  first  bottled. 

The  peels  hang  up  till  dry,  then  keep  them  from 
the  dust. 

Ice  Waters. 

Rub  some  fine  sugar  on  lemon,  or  orange,  to 
give  the  colour  and  flavour  ;  then  squeeze  the  juice 
of  either  on  its  respective  peel :  add  water  and  su- 
gar, to  make  a  fine  sherbet,  and  strain  it  before  it 
be  put  into  the  icepot.  If  orange,  the  greater  pro- 
portion should  be  of  the  Chinajuice,  and  only  a  lit- 
tle of  Seville,  and  a  small  bit  of  the  peel  grated  by 
the  sugar. 

Currant^  or  Raspherrywater  Ice. 

The  juice  of  these,  or  any  other  sort  of  fruit,  be- 
ing gained  by  squeezing,  sweetened  and  mixed  with 
water,  will  be  ready  for  icing. 
Ice  Creams. 

Mix  the  juice  of  the  fruits  with  as  much  sugar  as 

will  be  wanted,  before  you  add  cream,  which  should 

be  of  a   middling  richness.     Under  the  article  of 

FRUITS  is  given  a  mode  of  preparing  juice  for  ice. 

Broiun  Bread  Ice. 

Grate  as  fine  as  possible  stale  brown  bread,  soak 
a  small  proportion  in  cream  two  or  three  hours, 
sweeten  and  ice  it. 


212  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

To  make  the  Ice, 

Get  a  few  pounds  of  ice,  break  it  almost  to  pow- 
der, throw  a  large  handful  and  a  half  of  salt  among 
it.  You  must  prepare  it  in  a  part  of  the  house 
where  as  little  of  the  warm  air  comes  as  you  can 
possibly  contrive.  The  ice  and  salt  being  in  a 
bucket,  put  your  cream  into  an  ice  pot,  and  cover 
it  ;  immerse  it  in  the  ice,  and  draw  that  round  the 
pot,  so  as  to  touch  every  possible  part.  In  a  few 
minutes  put  a  spatula  or  spoon  in,  and  stir  it  well, 
removing  the  parts  that  ice  round  the  edges  to  the 
centre.  If  the  icecream  or  water  be  in  a  form,  shut 
the  bottom  close,  and  move  the  whole  in  the  ice,  as 
you  cannot  use  a  spoon  to  that  without  danger  of 
waste. 

Note.  When  any  fluid  tends  towards  cold,  the 
moving  it  quickly  accelerates  the  cold  ;  and  like- 
wise, when  any  fluid  is  tending  to  heat,  stirring  it 
will  facilitate  its  boiling. 

Icing  for  Tarts. 

Beat  the  yelk  of  an  egg  and  some  melted  butter 

well  together,  wash  the  tarts  with  a  feather,  and  sift 

sugar  over  as  you  put  them  in  the  oven.     Or  beat 

white  of  tgg  ;  wash  the  paste,  and  sift  white  sugar. 

Icing  for  Cakes, 

For  a  large  one,  beat  and  sift  eight  ounces  of  fine 
sugar,  put  into  a  mortar  with  four  spoonfuls  of  rose 
water,  and  the  whites  of  two  eggs  beaten  and 
strained,  whisk  it  well,  and  when  the  cake  is  almost 
cold,  dip  a  feather  in  the  icing,  and  cover  the  cake 

4 


CAKES.  ^' 

well ;  set  It  in  the  oven  to  harden,  but  do  not  let  it 
stay  to  discolour.     Put  the  cake  in  a  dry  place. 
CAKES. 
Observations  on  making  and  baking  Cakes. 

Currants  should  be  very  nicely  washed,  dried  in 
a  cloth,  and  then  set  before  the  fire.  If  damp  they 
will  make  cakes  or  puddings  heavy.  Before  they 
are  added,  a  dust  of  dry  flour  should  be  thrown 
among  them,  and  a  shake  given  to  them,  which 
causes  the  thing  that  they  are  put  to,  to  be  lighter. 

Eggs  should  be  very  long  beaten,  whites  and 
yelks  apart,  and  always  strained. 

Sugar  should  be  rubbed  to  a  powder  on  a  clean 
board,  and  sifted  through  a  very  fine  hair  or  lawn 
sieve. 

Lemonpeel  should  be  pared  very  thin,  and  with 
a  little  sugar  beaten  in  a  marble  mortar  to  a  paste, 
and  then  mixed  with  a  little  wine,  or  cream,  so  as 
to  divide  easily  among  the  other  ingredients. 

After  all  the  articles  are  put  into  the  pan,  they 
should  be  thoroughly  and  long  beaten,  as  the  light- 
ness of  the  cake  depends  much  on  their  being  well 
incorporated. 

Whether  black  or  white  plumcakes,  they  require 
less  butter  and  eggs  for  having  yeast,  and  eat  equal- 
ly light  and  rich.  If  the  leaven  be  only  of  flour, 
milk  and  water,  and  yeast,  it  becomes  more  tough, 
and  is  less  easily  divided,  than  if  the  butter  be  first 
put  with  those  ingredients,  and  the  dough  after- 
wards set  to  rise  bv  the  fire. 


2m  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

The  heat  of  the  oven  is  of  great  importance  for 
cakes,  especially  those  that  are  large.  If  not  pretty 
quick,  the  batter  will  not  rise.  Should  you  fear  its 
catching  by  being  too  quick,  put  some  paper  over 
the  cake  to  prevent  its  being  burnt.  If  not  long 
enough  lighted  to  have  a  body  of  heat,  or  it  is  be- 
come slack,  the  cake  will  be  heavy.  To  know- 
when  it  is  soaked,  take  a  broad  bladed  knife  that  is 
very  bright,  and  plunge  into  the  very  centre,  draw, 
it  instantly  out,  and  if  the  least  stickiness  adheres, 
put  the  cake  immediately  in,  and  shut  up  the  oven. 

If  the  heat  was  sufficient  to  raise,  but  not  to  soak, 
I  have  with  great  success  had  fresh  fuel  quickly 
put  in,  and  kept  the  cakes  hot  till  the  oven  was  fit 
to  finish  the  soaking,  and  they  turned  out  extremely 
well.  But  those  who  are  employed,  ought  to  be 
particularly  careful  that  no  mistakes  occur  from 
neghgence  when  large  cakes  are  to  be  baked. 
Plumcake. 

Mix  thoroughly  a  quarter  of  a  peck  of  fine  flour? 
well  dried,  with  a  pound  of  dry  and  sifted  loaf  su- 
gar, three  pounds  of  currants  washed,  and  very  dry, 
half  a  pound  of  raisins  stoned  and  chopped,  a  quar- 
ter of  an  ounce  of  mace  and  cloves,  twenty  Jamaica 
peppers,  a  grated  nutmeg,  tlie  peel  of  a  lemon  cut 
as  fine  as  possible,  and  half  a  pound  of  almonds 
blanched,  and  beaten  with  orange  flower  water. 
Melt  two  pounds  of  butter  in  a  pint  and  a  quarter 
of  cream,  but  not  hot,  put  to  it  a  pint  of  sweet  wine, 
,a  gkss  of  brandy,  the  whites  and  yelks  of  twelve 


CAKES.  215 

eggs  beaten  apart,  and  half  a  pint  of  good  yeast. 
Strain  this  liquid  by  degrees  into  the  dry  ingredi- 
ents, beating  them  together  a  full  hour,  then  butter 
the  hoop,  or  pan,  and  bake  it.  As  you  put  the 
batter  into  the  hoop,  or  pan,  throw  in  plenty  of 
citron,  lemon,  and  orangecandy. 

If  you  ice  the  cake,  take  half  a  pound  of  double 
refined  sugar  sifted,  and  put  a  little  with  the  white 
of  an  egg,  beat  it  well,  and  by  degrees  pour  in  the 
remainder.  It  must  be  whisked  near  an  hour, 
with  the  addition  of  a  little  orange  flower  water, 
but  mind  not  to  put  much.  When  the  cake  is 
done,  pour  the  icing  over,  and  return  it  to  the  oven 
for  fifteen  minutes  ;  but  if  the  oven  be  wanii,  keep 
it  near  the  mouth,  and  the  door  open  ;  lest  the 
colour  be  spoiled. 

Another  Plumcake. 

Flour  dried,  and  currants  washed  and  picked, 
four  pounds,  sugar  pounded  and  sifted  one  pound 
and  a  half,  six  orange,  lemon,  and  citronpeels,  cut 
in  slices  ;  mix  these. 

Beat  ten  eggs,  yelks  and  whites  separately  ;  then 
melt  a  pound  and  a  half  of  butter  in  a  pint  of  cream  ; 
when  lukewarm  put  it  to  half  a  pint  of  ale  yeast, 
near  half  a  pint  of  svveet  wine,  and  the  eggs  :  then 
strain  the  liquid  to  the  dry  ingredients,  beat  them 
v^'ell,  and  add  of  cloves,  niace,  cinnamon,  and  nut- 
meg, half  an  ounce  each.  Butter  the  pan.,  and  put 
it  into  a  quick  oven.  i|^ 

Three  hours  will  hake  it. 


dli  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

A  veryjine  Cake. 

Wash  two  pounds  and  a  half  of  fresh  butter  la 
water  first,  and  then  in  rosewater  ;  beat  the  butter 
to  a  cream  :  beat  twenty  eggs,  yelks  and  whites 
separately,  half  an  hour  each.  Have  ready  two 
pounds  and  a  half  of  the  finest  flour,  well  dried, 
«nd  kept  hot,  likewise  a  pound  and  a  half  of  sugar 
pounded  and  sifted,  one  ounce  of  spice  in  finest 
powder,  three  pounds  of  currants  nicely  cleaned 
and  dry,  half  a  pound  of  almonds  blanched,  and 
three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  sweetmeats  cut  not  too 
thin.  Let  all  be  kept  by  the  fire,  mix  all  the  dry 
ingredients  ;  pour  the  eggs  strained  to  the  butter  ; 
mix  half  a  pint  of  sweet  wine  with  a  large  glass  of 
brandy,  pour  it  to  the  butter  and  eggs,  mix  well, 
then  have  all  the  dry  things  put  in  by  degrees  ; 
beat  them  very  thoroughly  ;  you  can  hardly  do  it 
too  much.  Having  half  a  pound  of  stoned  jar  rai- 
sins chopped  as  fine  as  possible,  mix  them  carefully, 
so  that  there  shall  be  no  lumps.  Beat  the  ingredi- 
ents together  a  full  hour  at  least.  Have  a  hoop 
well  buttered,  or  if  you  have  none,  a  tin,  or  copper 
cakepan  ;  take  a  white  paper,  doubled  and  buttered, 
and  put  in  the  pan  round  the  edge,  if  the  cake  bat- 
ter fill  it  more  than  three  parts,  for  space  should  be 
allowed  for  rising.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven.  It  will 
require  thrde  hours. 

An  excellent  and  less  expensive  Cake. 

Rub  two  pounds  of  dry  fine  flour,  with  one  of 
butter,  washed  in  plain  and  rosewater,  mix  it  with 


CAKES.  217 

three  spoonfuls  of  yeast  in  a  little  warm  milk  and 
water.  Set  it  to  rise  an  hour  and  a  half  before  the 
fire,  then  beat  into  it  two  pounds  of  currants,  one 
pound  of  sugar  sifted,  four  ounces  of  almonds,  six 
ounces  of  stoned  raisins,  chopped  fine,  half  a  nut* 
meg,  cinnamon,  allspice,  and  a  few  cloves,  the  peel 
of  a  lemon  chopped  as  fine  as  possible,  a  glass  of 
wine,  ditto  of  brandy,  twelve  yelks  and  whites  of 
eggs  beat  separately,  and  long  ;  orange,  citron,  and 
lemon.  Beat  exceedingly  well,  and  butter  the  pan. 
A  quick  oven. 

A  very  good  comfnon  Cake* 

Rub  eight  ounces  of  butter  into  two  pounds  of 
dried  flour,  mix  it  with  three  spoonfuls  of  yeast  that 
is  not  bitter,  to  a  paste.  Let  it  rise  an  hour  and  a 
half ;  then  mix  in  the  yelks  and  whites  of  six  eggs 
beaten  apart  ;  one  pound  of  sugar,  some  milk  to 
make  it  a  proper  thickness,  (about  a  pint  will  be 
sufficient,)  a  glass  of  sweet  wine,  the  rind  of  a  lemon, 
and  a  teaspoonful  of  ginger.  Add  either  a  pound  and 
a  half  of  currants,  or  some  carraways,  and  beat  well. 
A  cheap  Seed  Cake, 

Mix  a  quarter  of  a  peck  of  flour  with  half  a 
pound  of  sugar,  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  allspice, 
and  a  little  ginger  ;  melt  three  quarters  of  a  pound 
of  butter  with  half  a  pint  of  milk  ;  when  just  warm, 
put  to  it  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  yeast,  and  work  up 
to  a  good  dough.  Let  it  stand  before  the  fire  a 
few  minutes  before  it  goes  to  the  oven  ;  add  seeds, 
or  currants,  and  bake  an  hour  and  a  half. 


DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

Another. 

Mix  a  pound  and  a  half  of  flour,  and  a  pound  of 
common  lump  sugar,  eight  eggs  beaten  separately, 
an  ounce  of  seeds,  two  spoonfuls  of  yeast,  and  the 
same  of  milk  and  water. 

Note.  Milk  alone  causes  cake  and  bread  soon  to 
dry. 

Common  Bread  Cake. 

Take  the  quantity  of  a  quartern  loaf  from  the 
dough  when  making  white  bread,  and  knead  well 
into  it  two  ounces  of  butter,  two  of  Lisbon  sugar, 
and  eight  of  currants.  Warm  the  butter  in  a  tea- 
cupful  of  good  milk. 

By  the  addition  of  an  ounce  of  butter,  or  sugar, 
or  an  egg  or  two,  you  may  make  the  cake  better. 
A  teacupful  of  raw  cream  improves  it  much.  It  is 
best  to  bake  it  in  a  pan,  rather  than  as  a  loaf,  the 
outside  being  less  hard. 

yi  good  Pound  Cake. 

Beat  a  pound  of  butter  to  a  cream,  and  mix  with 
it  the  whites  and  yelks  of  eight  eggs  beaten  apart. 
Have  ready  warm  by  the  fire,  a  pound  of  flour,  and 
the  same  of  sifted  sugar,  mix  them  and  a  few 
cloves,  a  little  nutmeg  and  cinnamon  in  fine  powder 
together  ;  then  by  degrees  work  the  dry  ingredients 
into  the  butter  and  eggs.  When  well  beaten,  add 
a  glass  of  wine,  and  some  carrav/ays.  It  must  be 
beaten  a  full  hour.  Butter  a  pan,  and  bake  it  a 
full  hour  in  a  quick  oven. 

The  above  proportions,  leaving  out  four  ounces 


CAKES.  :^li' 

of  the  butter,  and  tlie  same  of  sugar,  make  a  less 
luscious  cake. 

Queen  Cakes. 
Mix  a  pound  of  dried  flour,  the  same  of  sifted 
sugar,  and  of  washed  clean  currants.  Wash  a 
pound  of  butter  in  rosewater,  beat  it  well,  then 
mix  \vith  it  eight  eggs,  yelks  and  whites  beaten 
separately,  and  put  in  the  dry  ingredients  by  de- 
grees ;  beat  the  whole  an  hour  ;  butter  little  tins, 
teacups,  or  saucers,  and  bake  the  batter  in,  filling 
only  half.  Sift  a  little  fine  sugar  over  just  as  you 
put  into  the  oven. 

Queen  Caies,  another  way. 
Beat  eight  ounces  of  butter,  and  mix  with  two 
well  beaten  eggs,  strained  ;  mix  eight  ounces  of 
dried  flour,  and  the  same  of  lump  sugar,  and  the 
grated  rind  of  a  lemon,  then  add  the  whole  togeth- 
er,  and  beat  full  half  an  hour  with  a  silver  spoon. 
Butter  sm.all  pattypans,  half  fill,  and  bake  twenty 
minutes  in  a  quick  oven. 

A  common  Cake. 
Mix  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  flour  with  half 
a  pound  of  butter,  four  ounces  of  sugar,  four  ^'^g'^y 
half  an  ounce  of  carraways,  and  a  glass  of  raisin 
wine.  Beat  it  well,  and  bake  it  in  a  quick  oven. 
Fine  Lisbon  sugar  will  do. 

Shre'wsbury  Cakes. 
Sift  one   pound  of  su^ar,   some   pounded  cinna- 
mon,  and   a  nutmeg   grated,   into  three  pounds  of 
flour,   the  finest   sort  ;   add  a  little  rosewater  to 
v/2 


220  DOMESTIC  COOICERY. 

three  eggs,  well  beaten,  and  mix  these  with  the 
flour,  &c.  then  pour  into  it  as  much  butter  melted 
as  will  make  it  a  good  thickness  to  roll  out. 

Mould  it  well,  and  roll  thin,  and  cut  it  into  such 
shapes  as  you  like. 

Little  nubile  Cakes. 

Dry  half  a  pound  of  flour,  rub  into  it  a  very  httle 
pounded  sugar,  one  ounce  of  butter,  one  egg,  a  few 
carraways,  and  as  much  milk  and  water  as  to  make 
a  paste  ;  roll  it  thin,  and  cut  it  with  the  top  of  a  can- 
ister or  glass.  Bake  fifteen  minutes  on  tin  plates. 
Tea  Cakes. 

Rub  fine  four  ounces  of  butter  into  eight  ounces 
of  flour  ;  mix  eight  ounces  of  currants,  and  six  of 
fine  Lisbon  sugar,  two  yelks  and  one  white  of  eggs, 
and  a  spoonful  of  brandy.  Roll  the  paste  the  thick- 
ness of  an  Ohver  biscuit,  and  cut  v/ith  a  wineglass. 
You  may  beat  the  other  white,  and  wash  over  them  | 
and  either  dust  sugar,  or  not,  as  you  hke. 
Little  short  Cakes. 

Rub  into  a  pound  of  dried  flour  four  ounces  of 
butter,  four  ounces  of  white  powder  sugar,  one  Qggt 
and  a  spoonful  or  two  of  thin  cream  to  make  into 
a  paste.  When  mixed,  put  currants  into  one  half, 
and  carraways  into  the  rest.  Cut  them  as  before, 
and  bake  on  tins. 

Very  good  common  Plumcakes. 

Mix  five  ounces  of  butter  in  three  pounds  of  dry 
flour,  and  five  ounces  of  fine  Lisbon  sugar  ;  add  six 
ounces  of  currants,  washed  and  dried,  and  some 


CAKES.  221 

pimento  finely  powdered.  Put  three  spoonfuls  of 
yeast  into  a  Winchester  pint  of  new  milk  warmed, 
and  mix  into  a  light  dough  with  the  above.  Make 
it  into  twelve  cakes,  and  bake  on  a  floured  tin  half 
an  hour. 

Benton  Tea  Cakes. 

Mix  a  paste  of  flour,  a  httle  bit  of  butter,  and 
milk  ;  roll  as  thin  as  possible,  and  bake  on  a  back- 
stone  over  the  fire,  or  on  a  hot  hearth. 
Another  sort,  as  Biscuit. 

Rub  into  a  pound  of  flour  six  ounces  of  butter, 
and  three  large  spoonfuls  of  yeast,  and  make  into  a 
paste,  with  a  sufficient  quantity  of  new  milk  ;  make 
into  biscuit,  and  prick  them  with  a  clean  fork. 
Another  sort. 

Melt  six  or  seven  ounces  of  butter  with  a  suffi- 
ciency of  new  milk  warmed  to  make  seven  pounds 
of  flour  into  a  stiff  paste  :  roll  thin,  and  make  into 
biscuit. 

Hard  Biscuit. 

Warm  two  ounces  of  butter  in  as  much  skimmed 
milk  as  will  make  a  pound  of  flour  into  a  very  stiff 
paste,  beat  it  with  a  rollingpin,  and  work  it  very 
smooth.  Roll  it  thin,  and  cut  it  into  round  biscuit  , 
prick  them  full  of  holes  with  a  fork.  About  six 
minutes  will  bake  them. 

Flat  Cakes,  that  nvill  keep  long  in  the  house  good. 

Mix  tr^'o  pounds  of  flour,  one  pound  of  sugar, 
and  one  ounce  of  carraways,  with  four  or  five  eggs, 
and  a  few  spoonfuls  of  water  to  make  a  stiff  paste  j 


222  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

roll  it  thin,  and  cut  into  any  shape.     Bake  on  tins 
lightly   floured.     While  baking,  boil  a  pound  of 
sugar  in   a  pint    of  water  to   a  thin  syrup  ;  while 
both  are  hot,    dip  each  cake  into  it,   and  put  them 
on  tins  into  the  oven  to  dry  for  a  short  time  ;  and 
when   the  oven   is   cooler   still,   return  them  there 
again,  and  let  them  stay  four  or  five  hours. 
Plain  and  very  crisp  Biscuit. 
Make  a  pound  of  flour,   the  yelk  of  an  egg,  and 
some  milk,  into  a  very  stiff  paste  ;  beat  it  well,  and 
knead  till  quite    smooth  ;  roll  \qyj   thin,    and  cut 
into  biscuit.     Bake  them  in  a  slow  oven  till  quite 
dry  and  crisp. 

Little  PlumcakeSi  to  keep  long. 
Dry  one  pound  of  flour,  and  mix  with  six  ounces 
of  finely  pounded  sugar,  beat  six  ounces  of  butter 
to  a  cream,  and  add  to  three  eggs,  well  beaten, 
half  a  pound  of  currants  washed,  and  nicely  dried, 
and  the  flour  and  sugar  ;  beat  all  for  some  time, 
then  dredge  flour  on  tin  plates,  and  drop  the  batter 
on  them  the  size  of  a  walnut.  If  properly  mixed, 
it  will  be  a  stiff  paste.  Bake  in  a  brisk  oven. 
Rusks, 
Beat  seven  eggs  well;  and  mix  with  half  a  pint 
of  new  milk,  in  which  has  been  melted  four  ounces 
of  butter  ;  add  to  it  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  yeast, 
and  three  ounces  of  sugar,  and  put  them,  by  de- 
grees, into  as  much  flour  as  will  make  a  fgsry  light 
paste,  rather  like  a  batter,  and  let  it  rise  before  the 
fire  half  an  hour  j  then  add  some   more  flour  to 


CAKES.  223 

make  it  a  little  stiffer,  but  not  stiff.  Work  it  well 
and  divide  it  into  small  loaves  or  cakes,  about  five 
or  six  inches  wide,  and  flatten  them.  When  baked 
and  cold,  slice  them  the  thickness  of  rusks,  and  put 
them  in  the  oven  to  brown  a  little. 

Note.  The  cakes,  when  first  baked,  eat  delicious- 
ly  buttered  for  tea  ;  or  with  carraways  to  eat  cold. 
A  Biscuit  Cake. 

One  pound  of  flour,  five  eggs  well  beaten  and 
strained,  eight  ounces  of  sugar,  a  little  rose  or 
orange  flower  water  ;  beat  the  whole  thoroughly, 
and  bake  one  hour. 

Crack  nuts. 

Mix  eight  ounces  of  flour,  and  eight  ounces  of 
sugar  ;  melt  four  ounces  of  butter  in  two  spoonfuls 
of  raisin  wine  ;  then  with  four  eggs  beaten  and 
strained,  make  into  a  paste  ;  add  carraways,  roll 
out  as  thin  as  paper,  cut  with  the  top  of  a  glass, 
w^sh  with  the  white  of  an  egg,  and  dust  sugar  over. 
Water  Cakes. 

Dry  three  pounds  of  fine  flour,  and  rub  into  it 
one  pound  of  sugar  sifted,  one  pound  of  butter,  and 
one  ounce  of  carraway  seed.  Make  into  a  paste 
with  three  quarters  of  a  pint  of  boiling  new  milk,  roll 
very  thin,  and  cut  into  the  size  you  choose  ;  punch 
full  of  holes,  and  bake  on  tin  plates  in  a  cool  oven. 
Cracknels. 

Mix  with  a  quart  of  flour  half  a  nutmeg  grated, 
the  yelks  of  four  eggs  beaten  with  four  spoonfuls 
of  rose  water,  iato  a  stiff  paste,  with  cold  water  ; 


224  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

then  roll  in  a  pound  of  butter,  and  make  them  into" 
a  cracknel  shape  ;  put  them  into  a  kettle  of  boihng 
water,  and  boil  them  till  they  swim,  then  take  out, 
and  put  them  into  cold  water  ;  when  hardened,  lay 
them  out  to  dry,  and  bake  them  on  tin  plates. 
,  Rice  Cake, 

Mix  ten  ounces  of  ground  rice,  three  ounces  of 
flour,  eight  ounces  of  pounded  sugar  ;  then  sift  by 
degrees  into  eight  yelks  and  six  whites  of  eggs, 
and  the  peel  of  a  lemon  shred  so  fine  that  it  is  quite 
mashed.  Mix  the  whole  well  in  a  tin  stewpan 
over  a  very  slow  fire  with  a  whisk,  then  put  it 
immediately  into  the  oven  in  the  same,  and  bake 
forty  minutes. 

Another  Rice  Cake. 

Beat  twelve  yelks  and  six  whites  of  eggs  with 
the  peels  of  two  lemons  grated.  Mix  one  pound 
©f  flour  of  rice,  eight  ounces  of  flour,  and  one  pound 
of  sugar  pounded  and  sifted  ;  then  beat  it  well  with 
the  eggs  by  degrees,  for  an  hour,  with  a  wooden 
spoon.  Butter  a  pan  well ;  and  put  it  in  at  the 
oven  mouth, 

A  gentle  oven  will  bake  it  in  an  hour  and  a  half. 
Spunge  Cake. 

Weigh  ten  eggs,  and  their  weight  in  very  fine 
sugar,  and  that  of  six  in  flour  ;  beat  the  yelks  with 
the  flour,  and  the  whites  alone  to  a  very  stiff  froth  ; 
then  by  degrees  mix  the  whites  and  the  flour  with 
the  other  ingredients,  and  beat  them  well  half  an 
hour.     Bake  in  a  quick  oven  an  hour. 


CAKES.  225 

Another,  nvlthout  Butter. 

Dry  one  pound  of  flour,  and  one  and  a  quarter 
tf  sugar  ;  beat  seven  eggs,  yelks  and  whites  apart ; 
grate  a  lemon,  and  with  a  spoonful  of  brandy,  beat 
the  whole  together  with  your  hand  for  an  hour. 
Bake  in  a  buttered  pan,  in  a  quick  oven. 

Sv/eetmeats  may  be  added,  if  approved. 
Macaroons. 

Blanch  four  ounces  of  almonds,  and  pound  with 
four  spoonfuls  of  orange  flower  water  ;  wliisk  the 
white  of  four  eggs  to  a  froth,  them  mix  it,  and  a 
pound  of  sugar,  sifted,  with  the  almonds  to  a  paste  ; 
and  laying  a  sheet  of  wafer  paper  on  a  tin,  put  it  on 
in  different  little  cakes  the  shape  of  macaroons. 
Wafers. 

Diy  the  flour  well  which  you  intend  to  use,  mix 
a  little  pounded  sugai"  and  finely  pounded  mace 
with  it,  then  make  it  into  a  thick  batter  with 
cream  ;  butter  the  wafer  irons,  let  them  be  hot, 
put  a  teaspoonful  of  the  batter  into  them,  so  bake 
them  carefully,  and  roll  them  off  the  iron  with  a 
stick. 

Tunhridge  Cakes. 

Rub  six  ounces  of  butter  quite  fine  into  a  pound 
of  flour,  then  mix  six  ounces  of  sugar,  beat  and 
strain  two  eggs,  and  make  with  the  above  into  a 
paste.  Roll  it  very  thin,  and  cut  with  the  top  of  a 
glass  ;  prick  them  with  a  fork,  and  cover  with  car- 
raways,  or  wash  with  the  white  of  an  e^g,  and  dust  a 
little  white  sugar  over. 


226  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

Gingerbread. 

Mix  with  two  pounds  of  flour  half  a  pound  of  trea* 
ole,  three  quarters  of  an  ounce  of  can-aways,  one 
ounce  of  ginger  finely  sifted,  and  ten  ounces  of  but- 
ter. Roll  the  paste  into  what  form  you  please, 
and  bake  on  tins. 

If  you  like  sweetmeats,  add  orange  candied  ;  it 
may  be  added  in  small  bits. 

Another  sort. 

To  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  treacle  beat  one 
egg  strained  ;  mix  four  ounces  of  brown  sugar, 
half  an  ounce  of  ginger  sifted,  of  cloves,  mace,  all- 
spice, and  nutmeg,  a  quarter  of  an  ounce,  beaten  as 
fine  as  possible  ;  coriander  and  carraway  seeds,  each 
a  quarter  of  an  ounce  ;  melt  one  pound  of  butter, 
and  mix  with  the  above  ;  and  add  as  much  flour  as 
will  knead  into  a  pretty  stiff  paste  ;  then  roll  it  out, 
and  cut  into  cakes. 

Bake  on  tin  plates  in  a  quick  oven.  A  little 
time  will  bake  them. 

Of  some,  drops  may  be  made. 
To  make  a  good  Gingerbread,  nvithout  Butter. 

Mix  two  pounds  of  treacle,  of  orange,  lemon, 
citron,  and  candied  ginger,  each  four  ounces,  all 
thinly  sliced,  one  ounce  of  coriander  seeds,  one 
ounce  of  carraways,  and  one  ounce  of  beaten  gin- 
ger, in  as  much  flour  as  will  make  a  soft  paste  ;  lay 
it  in  cakes  on  tin  plates,  and  bake  it  in  a  quick  oven. 
Keep  it  dry  in  a  covered  earthen  vessel,  and  it  will 
be  good  for  some  months. 


CAKES.  227 

Note,  If  cake  or  biscuit  be  kept  in  paper  or  a 
drawer,  the  taste  will  be  disagreeable.  A  pan  and 
cover,  or  tureen,  will  preserve  tliem  long  and  moist. 
Or,  if  to  be  crisp,  laying  them  before  the  fire  will 
make  them  so. 

A  good  plain  Biin^  that  may  he  eaten  "jj'ith  or  without 
toasting  and  Butter. 
Rub  four  ounces  of  butter  into  two  pounds  of 
flour,  four  ounces  of  sugar,  a  nutmeg,  or  not,  as  you 
like,  a  few  Jamaica  peppers,  a  dessert  spoonful  of  car- 
raways  ;  put  a  spoonful  or  two  of  cream  into  a  cup 
of  yeast,  and  as  much  good  milk  as  will  make  the 
above  into  a  light  paste.      Set  it  to  rise  by  a  fire  till 
the  oven  be  ready.     They  \vill  quickly  bake  on  tins. 
Richer  Buns. 
Mix  one   pound  and  a  half  of  dried  flour,  with 
half  a  pound  of  sugar  ;  melt  a  pound  and  two  ounc- 
es of  butter  in  a  little  warm  water  ;  add  six  spoon- 
fuls of  rosewater,  and  knead  the  above  into  a  light 
dough,  with  half  a  pint  of  yeast ;  then  mix  five  ounc- 
es of  carraway  comfits  in,  and  put  some  on  them. 
Mujins. 
Mix   two   pounds  of  flour  with  two  eggs,  two 
ounces  of  butter  melted  in  a  pint  of  milk,  and  four 
or  five  spoonfuls  of  yeast ;  beat  it  thoroughly,  and  set 
it  to  rise  two  or  three  hours.     Bake  on  a  hot  hearth 
in  flat  cakes.     When  done  on  one  side  turn  them. 
A^ote.   Muffins,  rolls,  or  bread,  if  stale,  may  be 
made  to  taste  new,  by  dipping  in  cold  water,  and 
toasting  or  heating  in  an  oven,  or  Dutch  oven,  till 
the  out!?ide  be  crimp.    , 


228  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

French  Rolls. 
Rub  an  ounce  of  butter  into  a  pound  of  flour, 
mix  one  ^gg  beaten,  a  little  yeast  that  is  not  bitter, 
and  as  much  milk  as  will  make  a  dough  of  a  mid- 
dling stiffness.  Beat  it  well,  but  do  not  knead  ;  let 
it  rise,  and  bake  on  tins. 

Brentford  Rolls, 
Mix  with  two  pounds  of  flour  a  little  salt,  two 
ounces  of  sifted  sugar,  four  ounces  of  butter,  and 
two  eggs  beaten  with  two  spoonfuls  of  yeast,  and 
about  a  pint  of  milk.  Knead  the  dough  well,  and 
set  it  to  rise  before  the  fire.  Make  twelve  rolls, 
butter  tin  plates,  and  set  them  before  the  fire  to 
rise  till  they  become  a  proper  size ;  then  bake  half 
an  hour. 

Excellent  Rolls. 
Warm  one  ounce  of  butter  in  half  a  pint  of  milk, 
put  to  it  a  spoonful  and  half  of  yeast  of  small  beer, 
and  a  little  salt.  Put  two  pounds  of  flour  into  a 
pan,  and  mix  in  the  above.  Let  it  rise  an  hour  ; 
knead  it  well ;  and  make  into  seven  rolls,  and  bake 
in  a  quick  oven. 

If  made  in  cakes  three  inches  thick,  sliced  and 
buttered,  they  resemble  Sally  Lumm's  as  made  at 
Bath. 

The  foregoing  receipt,  with  the  addition  of  a  lit- 
tle saffron,  boiled  in  half  a  teacupful  of  milk,  makes 
remarkably  good 

Si^ron  cahesy  to  eat  hot  nvith  butter. 


CAKES.  229 

Potatoe  Butter. 

Boil  three  pounds  of  potatoes,  bruise  and  work 
them  with  two  ounces  of  butter,  and  as  much  milk 
as  will  make  them  pass  through  a  colander.  Take 
half  or  three  quarters  of  a  pint  of  yeast,  and  half 
a  pint  of  warm  water,  mix  with  the  potatoes,  then 
pour  the  whole  upon  five  pounds  of  flour,  and  add 
some  salt.  Knead  it  well ;  if  not  of  a  proper  con- 
sistence, put  a  little  more  milk  and  water  warm. 
Let  it  stand  before  the  fire  an  hour  to  rise.  Work 
it  well,  and  make  into  rolls.  Bake  about  half  an 
hour  in  an  oven  not  quite  so  hot  as  for  bread. 

They  eat  well  toasted  and  buttered. 
Torksh'ire  Cake. 

Take  two  pounds  of  fioii^  and  mix  with  it  four 
ounces  of  butter  melted  in  a  pint  of  good  milk, 
three  spoonfuls  of  yeast,  and  two  eggs  ;  beat  all 
well  together,  and  let  it  rise  ;  then  knead  it,  and 
make  into  cakes  ;  let  them  rise  on  tins  before  you 
bake,  which  do  in  a  slow  oven. 

Another  sort  is  made  as  above,  leaving  out  the 
butter. 

The  first  sort  is  shorter  ;  the  last  hghter. 
French  Bread. 

With  a  quarter  of  a  peck  of  fine  flour  mix  the 
yelks  of  three  and  whites  of  two  eggs,  beaten  and 
strained,  a  httle  salt,  half  a  pint  of  good  yeast  that 
is  not  bitter,  and  as  much  m.ilk,  made  a  httle 
.  warm,  as  will  work  into  a  thin  fight  dough.  Stir  it 
about,  but  do  not  knead  it.    Have  ready  three  quart 


2Se  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

wooden  dishes,  divide  the  dough  among  them,  set 
to  rise,  then  turn  them  out  into  the  oven,  which 
must  be  quick.     R^sp  when  done. 
To  make  Yeast. 

Thicken  two  quarts  of  water,  with  fine  flour  about 
three  spoonfuls  ;  boil  half  an  hour,  sweeten  with 
near  half  a  pound  of  brown  sugar  ;  when  rear  cold, 
put  into  it  four  spoonfuls  of  fresh  yeast  in  a  jug, 
shake  it  well  together,  and  let  stand  one  day  to  fer- 
ment near  the  fire,  without  being  covered.  There 
will  be  a  thin  liquor  on  the  top,  which  must  be  pour- 
ed off,  shake  the  remainder,  and  cork  it  up  for  use. 
Take  always  four  spoonfuls  of  the  old  to  ferment 
the  next  quantity,  keeping  it  always  in  succession. 

An  half  peck  loaf  will  require  about  a  gill. 
Another  'way. 

Boil  one  pound  of  potatoes  to  a  mash,  when  half 
cold  add  a  cupful  of  yeast,  and  mix  it  well.  It 
will  be  ready  for  use  in  two  or  three  hours,  and 
keeps  well. 

Use  a  double  quantity  of  this  to  what  you  do  of 
beer  yeast. 

To  take  off  the  bitter  of  yeast,  put  bran  into  a 
sieve,  and  pour  it  through. 

To  preserve  Teast. 

When  you  have  plenty  of  yeast  begin  to  save  it 
in  the  following  manner  ;  v/hisk  it  until  it  becomes 
thin,  then  get  a  large  wooden  dish,  wash  it  very 
nicely,  and  when  quite  dry,  lay  a  layer  of  yeast 
ever  the  inside  with  a.  soft  brush  ;  let  it  dry,  then 


CAKES.  231 

put  another  layer  in  the  same  manner,  and  so  do 
until  you  have  a  sufficient  quantity,  observing  that 
each  coat  dry  thoroughly  before  another  be  added. 
It  may  be  put  on  two  or  three  inches  thick,  and 
will  keep  several  months  ;  when  to  be  used  cut  a 
piece  out ;  stir  it  in  warm  water. 

If  to  be  used  for  brewing,  keep  it  by  dipping 
large  handfuls  of  birch  tied  together ;  and  when 
dry,  repeat  the  dipping  once.  You  may  thus  do 
as  many  as  you  please  ;  but  take  care  that  no  dust 
comes  to  them,  or  the  vessel  in  which  it  has  been 
prepared  as  before.  When  the  wort  be  set  to  work, 
throw  into  it  one  of  these  bunches,  and  it  will  do 
as  well  as  with  fresh  yeast  ;  but  if  mixed  with  a 
small  quantity  first,  and  then  added  to  the  whole, 
it  will  work  sooner. 

To  pot  Cheese. 

Cut  and  pound  four  ounces  of  Cheshire  cheese, 

one  ounce  and  a  half  of  fine  butter,  a  teaspoonful 

of  white  pounded  sugar,  a  little  bit  of  m.ace,  and  a 

glass  of  white  wine.      Press  it  down  in  a  deep  pot. 

To  roait  Cheese,  to  come  up  after  dinner. 

Grate  three  ounces  of  fat   Cheshire  cheese,  mix 

it  with  the  yelks  of  tvro  eggs,  four  ounces  of  grated 

bread,  and  four  ounces  of  butter,  beat  the  whole 

well  in  a  mortar,  with  a  teaspoonful  of  mustard, 

and  a  little  salt  and  pepper.     Toast  some  bread,  lay 

the  paste  as  above  thick  upon  it,  put  it  into  a  Dutch 

oven,  covered  with  a  dish  till  hot  through,  remove 

the  dish,  and  let  the  cheese  brown  a  little.     Serve 

as  hot  as  possible.  x  2 


233  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

To  poach  Eggs, 
Set  a  stevvpan  of  water  on  the  fire  ;  wlien  boiling, 
slip  an  ^^g,  previously  broken  into  a  cup,  into  the 
water  ;  when  the  white  looks  done  enough,  slide  an 
eggslice  under  the  ^gg,  and  lay  it  on  toast  and  butter, 
or  spinach.     As  soon  as  enough  are  done,  serve  hot. 


The  servants  of  each  county  are  generally  ac- 
quainted with  the  best  mode  of  managing  the  but- 
ter and  cheese  of  that  county  ;  but  the  following 
hints  may  not  be  unacceptable  to  give  information 
to  the  Mistress. 

DAIRY. 

The  greatest  possible  attention  must  be  paid  to 
cleanliness.  All  the  utensils  must  be  daily  scalded 
and  brushed,  washed  in  plenty  of  cold  water,  dried 
with  clean  cloths,  and  turned  up  in  the  air. 

The  dairy  should  be  kept  perfectly  clean  and 
cool. 

In  milking,  if  the  cows  be  not  left  perfectly 
di  y,  the  quantity  will  be  decreased.  The  quantity 
depends  on  the  goodness  of  different  cows,  on  the 
pasture,  and  on  the  length  of  time  from  calving. 
A  middhng  cow  gives  a  pound  of  butter  a  day  for 
five  or  six  weeks,  and  sometimes  longer.  When 
the  milk  decreases,  a  change  even  to  a  worse  pas- 
ture will  effect  an  alteration  ;  and  where  water  is 
within  re.ch  of  the  animals,  it  is  of  great  conse- 
quence to  the  milk. 


DAIRY.  2S^ 

The  chief  of  the  cows  should  come  in  the  end 
of  March,  cr  the  beginning  of  April,  and  one  the 
end  of  September ;  then  the  family  will  be  suppli- 
ed with  milk  in  the  winter. 

When  a  calf  is  to  be  reared,  it  should  be  taken 
from  the  cow  in  a  week  at  furthest,  or  it  will  cause 
great  trouble  in  reai-ing,  because  it  will  be  difficult 
to  make  it  take  milk  in  a  pan.  The  calf  should  be 
taken  from  the  cow  in  the  morning,  and  kept  with- 
out food  till  next  morning,  when  being  hungry  it 
will  take  it  without  much  trouble.  Skimmed  milk 
made  as  warm  as  new,  is  to  be  given  twice  a  day  in 
such  quantities  as  it  shall  require  ;  and  if  milk  run 
short,  a  fine  smooth  gruel  mixed  with  it  will  do  very 
well.  This  is  to  be  continued  till  the  calf  be  taken 
out  to  grass,  whicii  at  first  will  be  only  by  day,  then 
milk  must  be  given  when  housed  in  the  evening. 
To  scald  Cream. 

In  winter  the  milk  stands  twenty  four  hours  be- 
fore scalded  ;  in  the  summer  twelve.  The  milkpan 
is  to  be  put  on  a  hot  hearth,  if  vou  have  one,  or  if 
not,  into  a  brasskettle  of  water,  of  a  size  to  receive 
the  pan.  It  must  remain  on  the  fire  till  quite  hot, 
but  on  ne  account  boil,  or  there  will  be  a  skin,  in- 
stead of  cream,  upon  the  milk.  You  will  know 
when  done  enough  by  the  undulations  on  the  surface, 
and  looking  quite  thick.  The  time  required  to 
scald  cream  depends  on  the  size  of  the  pan  and  the 
heat  of  the  fire  ;  the  slower  the  better.  Remove  the 
pan  into  the  dairy  when  done,  and  skim  it  next  day. 


234  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

Of  cream  thus  prepared,  the  butter  is  usually 
made  in  Devonshire,  &c. 

Butler  milk. 

If  made  of  sweet  cream,  is  a  delicious  and  most 
wholesome  food.  Those  who  can  relish  sour  but- 
tei-milk,  find  it  still  more  light ;  and  it  is  reckoned 
more  beneficial  in  some  cases. 

To  cure  Maivsh'ins  f  r  Rennet. 

Cut  the  calf's  stomach  open,  rub  it  well  with 
salt,  let  it  hang  to  drain  two  days,  then  salt  it  well, 
and  let  it  lie  in  that  pickle  a  month  or  more  ;  then 
take  it  out,  drain,  and  flour  it,  stretch  it  out  with 
a  stick,  and  let  it  hang  up  to  dry. 

A  piece  of  this  is  to  be  soaked,  and  kept  ready 
to  turn  the  milk  in  cheesemaking  time. 

Some  lands  make  cheese  of  a  better  quality  than 
the  butter  produced  on  them  is. 

When  the  soil  is  poor,  the  cheese  will  want  fat ; 

to  remedy  which,  after  pressing  the  whey  from  the 

curd,  crumble  it    quite   small,  and  work  into  it  a 

pound  CI  fine  fresh  butter  ;  then  press,  &c.  as  usual. 

Cream  Cheese. 

Put  five  quarts  of  strippings,  that  is,  the  last  of 
the  milk,  into  a  pan,  with  two  spoonfuls  of  rennet. 
When  the  curd  is  come,  strike  it  down  two  or  three 
times  with  the  skimming  dish  just  to  break  it.  Let 
it  stand  two  hours,  tlien  spread  a  cheesecloth  on  a 
sieve,  put  the  curd  on  it,  and  let  the  whey  drain  ; 
break  the  curd  a  Httle  with  your  hand,  and  put  it 
into  a  vat  with  a  two  pound  weight  upon  it.     Lc";  " 


DAIRY.  ^S5 

stand  twelve  hours,  take  it  out,  and  bind  a  fillet 
round.  Turn  every  day  till  dry,  from  one  board  to 
another ;  cover  them  with  nettles,  or  clean  dock- 
leaves,  and  put  between  two  pewter  plates  to  ripen. 
If  the  weather  be  warm,  it  will  be  ready  in  three 
weeks. 

Another, 

Have  ready  a  kettle  of  boiling  water,  put  five 
quarts  of  new  milk  into  a  pan,  and  Jive  pints  of  cold 
water,  and  jive  of  hot  ;  when  of  a  proper  heat,  put 
in  as  much  rennet  as  will  bring  it  in  twenty  min- 
utes, likewise  a  bit  of  sugar.  When  come,  strike 
the  skimmer  three  or  four  times  down,  and  leave  it 
on  the  curd.  In  an  hour  or  two  lade  it  into  the  vat 
without  touching  it ;  put  a  two  pound  weight  on  it 
when  the  whey  has  run  from  itj  and  the  vat  is  full. 
Another  sort. 

Put  as  much  salt  to  three  pints  of  raw  cream  as 
shall  season  it ;  stir  it  well,  and  pour  it  into  a  sieve 
in  which  you  have  folded  a  cheesecloth  three  or  four 
times,  and  laid  at  the  bottom.  When  it  hardens, 
cover  it  with  nettles  on  a  pewter  plate. 
P^ish  Cream  Cheese. 

To  a  quart  of  fresh  cream,  put  a  pint  of  new  milk 
warm  enough  to  make  the  cream  a  proper  warmth, 
a  l^vt  of  sugar  and  a  little  rennet. 

bet  near  the  fire  till  the  curd  comes,  fill  a  vat 
mad,-  in  the  form  of  a  brick,  of  wheatstraw  or  rush- 
es sewed  together.  Have  ready  a  square  of  straw, 
or  rushes  sewed  flat  to  rest  the  vat  on,  and  another 
to  cover  it ;  the  vat  being  open  at  top  and  bottom. 


i>3G  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

Next  day  take  it  out,  and  change  it  as  above  to  ripen. 

A  half  pound  weight  will  be  sufficient  to  put  on  it. 

Another  ivay. 

Take  a  pint  of  very  thick  sour  cream  from  the 
top  of  the  pan  for  gathering  for  butter,  lay  a  nap- 
kin on  two  plates,  and  pour  half  into  each,  let  them 
stand  twelve  hours,  then  piit  them  on  a  fresh  wet 
napkin  in  one  plate,  and  cover  with  the  same  ;  this 
do  every  twelve  hours  until  you  find  the  cheese  be- 
gins to  look  dry,  then  ripen  it  with  nutleaves  ;  it 
will  be  ready  in  ten  days. 

Fresh  nettles,  or  two  pewter  plates,  will  ripen 
cream  cheese  very  well. 

To  breau  very  Jine  Welsh  Ale> 

Pour  forty  two  gallons  of  water  hot,  but  not  quite 
boiHng,  on  four  bushels  of  malt,  cover,  and  let  it 
stand  three  hours.  In  the  mean  time  infuse  a 
pound  and  a  half  of  hops  in  a  Httle  hot  water,  or 
two  pounds  if  the  ale  is  to  be  kept  five  or  six 
months,  and  put  water  and  hops  into  the  tub,  and 
run  the  wort  upon  them,  and  boil  them  together 
three  hours.  Strain  off  the  hops,  and  keep  for  the 
small  beer.  Let  the  wort  stand  in  a  high  tub  till 
cool  enough  to  receive  the  yeast,  of  which  put  tvvo 
quarts  of  ale,  or  if  you  cannot  get  it,  of  small  beer 
yeast.  Mix  it  thoroughly  and  often.  When  /^e 
wort  has  done  working,  the* second  or  third  day,"  he 
yeast  will  sink  rather  than  rise  in  the  middle,  re- 
move it  then,  and  turn  the  ale  as  it  works  out,  pour 
a  quart  in  at  a  time,   and   gently,   to   prevent  the 


DAIRY.  25Y 

fermentation  from  continuing  too  long,  which  weak- 
ens the  liquor.    Put  a  bit  of  paper  over  the  bunghole 
two  or  three  days  before  stopping  up. 
Strong  Beer,  or  Ale. 

Twelve  bushels  of  malt  to  the  hogshead  for  beer, 
eight  for  ale  ;  for  either  pour  the  whole  quantity 
of  water  hot,  but  not  boihng,  on  at  once,  and  let  it 
infuse  three  hours  close  covered  ;  mash  it  in  the 
first  half  hour,  and  let  it  stand  the  remainder  of  the 
time.  Run  it  on  the  hops  previously  infused  in 
water  ;  for  strong  beer  three  quarters  of  a  pound  to 
a  bushel,  if  for  ale,  half  a  pound.  Boil  them  with 
the  wort  tw^o  hours  from  the  time  it  begins  to  boil. 
Cool  a  pailful  to  add  three  quarts  of  yeast  to,  which 
wall  prepare  it  for  putting  to  the  rest  when  ready 
next  day  ;  but  if  possible,  put  together  the  same 
night.  Tun  as  usual.  Cover  the  bunghole  with 
paper  when  the  beer  has  done  working  ;  and  when 
it  is  to  be  stopped  have  ready  a  pound  and  a  half 
of  hops,  dried  before  the  fire,  put  them  into  the 
bunghole,  and  fasten  it  up. 

Let  it  stand  twelve  months  in  casks,  and  twelve 
in  bottles  before  it  be  drank.  It  will  keep,  and  be 
very  fine,  eight  or  ten  years.  It  should  be  brewed 
the  beginning  of  March. 

Great  care  must  be  taken  that  bottles  are  perfect- 
ly prepared,  and  that  the  corks  are  of  the  best  sort. 

The  ale  v.-ill  be  ready  in  three  or  four  months  ; 
and  if  the  ventpeg  be  never  removed,  it  will  have 
spirit  and  strength  to  the  very  last.  Allow  tw© 
gallons  of  water  at  first  for  waste. 


2S8  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

After  the  beer  of  ale  is  run  from  the  grains,  pour 
a  hogshead  and  a  half  for  the  twelve  bushels,  and  a 
hogshead  of  water  if  eight  were  brewed  ;  mash, 
and  let  stand,  and  then  boil,  &c.  Use  some  of  the 
hops  for  this  table  beer  that  were  boiled  for  the 
strong  beer. 

Excellent  Talk  Beer, 

On  three  bushels  of  malt  pour  of  hot  water  the 
third  of  the  quantity  you  are  to  use,  which  is  to  be 
thirty  nine  gallons.  Cover  it  warm  half  an  hour, 
then  mash,  and  let  it  stand  two  hours  and  a  half 
more,  then  set  it  to  drain.  When  dry,  add  half  the 
remaining  water,  mash,  and  let  it  stand  half  an 
hour,  run  that  into  another  tub,  and  pour  the  rest 
of  the  water  on  the  malt,  stir  it  well,  and  cover  it, 
letting  it  infuse  a  full  hour.  Run  that  off,  and  mix 
all  together.  A  pound  and  a  quarter  of  hops  should 
be  infused  in  water,  as  in  the  former  receipt,  and  be 
put  into  the  tub  for  the  first  running. 

Boil  the  hops  with  the  wort  an  hour  from  the 
time  it  first  boils.  Strain  off,  and  cool.  If  the 
whole  be  not  cool  enough  that  day  to  add  to  the 
yeast,  a  pail  or  two  of  wort  may  be  prepared,  and 
a  quart  of  yeast  put  to  it  over  night.  Before  tun- 
ning, all  the  wort  should  be  agded  together,  and 
thoroughly  mixed  v>nth  the  lade  pail.  When  the 
wort  ceases  to  work,  put  a  bit  of  paper  on  the  bung- 
hole  for  three  days,  when  it  may  be  safely  fastened 
close.  In  three  or  four  weeks  the  beer  will  be  fit 
for  drinking. 


HOME  BREWERY.  239^ 

Note.  Sen'ants  should  be  directed  to  put  a  cork 
into  every  barrel  as  soon  as  the  cock  is  taken  out, 
the  air  causing  casks  to  become  musty. 

To  refine  Beer,  Ahy  Wine,  or  Cider. 

Put  two  ounces  of  isinglass  shavings  to  soak  in 
a  quart  of  the  liquor  that  you  want  to  clear,  beat  it 
with  a  whisk  every  day  till  dissolved.  Draw  off  a 
third  part  of  the  cask,  and  mix  the  above  with  it  ; 
likewise  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  pearlashes,  onf 
ounce  of  salt  of  tartar  calcined,  and  one  ounce  of 
burnt  alum  powdered.  Stir  it  well,  then  return  the 
liquor  into  the  cask,  and  stir  it  with  a  clean  stick. 
Stop  it  up,  and  in  a  few  days  it  will  be  fine. 
To  make  excellent  Coffee.  See  among  sick  Cookery. 
Orgeat. 

Boil  a  quart  of  new  milk  with  a  stick  of  cinnamoc, 
sweeten  to  your  taste,  and  let  grow  cold  ;  then  pour 
it  by  degrees  to  three  ounces  of  almonds,  and  twenty 
bitter,  that  have  been  blanched  and  beaten  to  a  paste, 
with  a  little  water  to  prevent  oiUng  ;  boil  all  togeth- 
er, and  stir  till  cold,  then  add  half  a  glass  of  brandy. 
Another  ivay. 

Blanch  and  pound  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of 
almonds,  and  thirty  bitter,  with  a  spoonful  of  wa- 
ter. Stir  in  by  degrees  two  pints  of  water,  and 
three  of  milk,  and  strain  the  whole  through  a  cloth. 
Dissolve  half  a  pound  of  fine  sugar  in  a  pint  of  wa- 
ter, boil  and  skim  it  well ;  mix  it  with  the  other, 
as  likewise  two  spoonfuls  of  orange  flower  water, 
and  a  teacupful  of  the  best  brandy. 


240  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

Lemonade.     To  be  made  a  day  before  wanted. 

Pare  two  dozen  of  tolerably  sized  lemons  as  thin 
as  possible,  put  eighteen  of  the  rinds  into  three 
quarts  of  hot,  not  boiling  water,  and  cover  it  over 
for  three  or  four  hours.  Rub  some  fine  sugar  on 
the  lemons  to  attract  the  essence,  and  put  it  into  a 
China  bowl,  into  which  squeeze  the  juice  of  the 
lemons  :  to  it  add  one  pound  and  a  half  of  fine 
sugar,  then  put  the  water  to  the  above,  and  three 
quarts  of  milk  made  boiling  hot  ;  mix,  and  pour 
through  a  jellybag  till  perfectly  clear. 
Another  avay. 

Pare  a  number  of  lemons  according  to  the  quan- 
tity you  are  likely  to  want ;  on  the  peels  pour  hot 
water,  but  more  juice  will  be  necessary  than  you 
need  use  the  peels  of.  While  infusing,  boil  sugar 
and  water  to  a  good  syrup  with  the  white  of  an  ^gg 
whipt  up.  When  it  boils,  pour  a  little  cold  water 
into  it  ;  set  it  on  again,  and  when  it  boils  up  take 
the  pan  off,  and  set  it  to  settle.  If  there  is  any 
skum,  take  it  off,  and  pour  it  clear  from  the  sedi- 
ment to  the  water  the  peels  were  infused  in,  and 
the  lemonjuice  ;  stir  and  taste  it,  and  add  as  much 
more  water  as  shall  be  necessary  to  make  a  very 
rich  lemonade.  Wet  a  jellybag,  and  squeeze  it  dry, 
then  strain  the  liquor,  which  is  uncommonly  fine. 
Raspherryvtnegar. 

Put  a  pound  of  fine  fruit  into  a  China  bowl,  and 
pour  upon  it  a  quait  of  the  best  white  wine  vinegar  ; 
next  day  strain  the  liquor  on  a  pound  of  fresh  rasp- 


HOME  BREWERY.  241 

ben'ies  ;  and  the  following  day  do  the  same,  but  do 
not  squeeze  the  fruit,  only  drain  the  liquor  as  dry  as 
you  can  from  it.  The  last  time  pass  it  through  a 
canvass  previously  wet  with  vinegar  to  prevent 
waste.  Put  it  into  a  stonejar,  with  a  pound  of  su- 
gar to  every  pint  of  juice,  broken  into  large  lumps  ; 
stir  it  when  melted,  then  put  the  jar  into  a  sauce- 
pan of  water,  or  on  a  hot  hearth,  let  it  simmer,  and 
skim  it.     When  cold,  bottle  it. 

This  is  one  of  the  most  useful  preparations  that 
can  be  kept  in  a  house,  not  only  as  affording  the 
most  refreshing  beverage,  but  being  of  singular  effi- 
cacy in  complaints  of  the  chest.  A  large  spoon- 
ful or  two  in  a  tumbler  of  water. 

N.   B.   Use  no  glazed  or  metal  vessel  for  it. 

Note.     The  fruit,  with  equal  quantity  of  sugar, 
makes  excellent  raspberr)^  cakes  without  boihng. 
Raspberryivlne. 

To  every  quart  of  well  picked  raspberries  put  a 
quart  of  water  ;  bruize,  and  let  them  stand  two 
days  ;  strain  off'  the  liquor,  and  to  every  gallon  put 
three  pounds  of  lump  sugar  ;  when  dissolved  put 
the  liquor  in  a  banel,  and  \vhen  fine,  which  will  be 
in  about  two  months,  bottle  it,  and  to  each  bottle 
put  a  spoonful  of  brandy,  or  a  glass  of  wine. 
Raspberry^  or  Currantivine. 

To  every  three  pints  of  fruit,  carefully  cleared 
from  mouldy  or  bad,  put  one  quart  of  water  ;  bruise 
the  former.  In  twenty  four  hours  strain  the  li- 
quor, and  put  to  every  quart  a  pound  of  sugar,  a 


1A2  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

good  middling  quality  of  Lisbon.  If  for  white  cur- 
rants, use  lump  sugar.  It  is  best  to  put  the  fruit, 
&c.  in  a  large  pan,  and  when  in  three  or  four  days 
the  skum  rises,  take  that  off  before  the  liquor  be 
put  into  the  barrel. 

Those  who  make  from  their  own  gardens,  may 
not  have  a  sufficiency  to  fill  the  barrel  at  Once. 
The  wine  will  not  be  hurt  if  made  in  the  pan,  in 
tlie  above  proportions,  and  added  as  the  fruit  ripens, 
and  can  be  gathered  in  dry  weather.  Keep  an  ac- 
count of  what  is  put  in  each  time. 
Imperial. 

Put  two  ounces  of  cream  of  tartar,  and  the  juice 
and  paring  of  two  lemons  into  a  stone  jar  ;  pour  on 
them  seven  quarts  of  boiling  water,  stir  and  cover 
close.  When  cold,  svsreeten  with  loaf  sugar,  and 
straining  it,  bottle  and  cork  it  tight. 

This  is  a  very  pleasant  liquor,  and  very  whole- 
some ;  but  from  the  latter  consideration  was  at  one 
time  drank  in  such  quantities,  as  to  become  injuri- 
ous. Add,  in  bottling,  half  a  pint  of  rum  to  the 
whole  quantity. 

Excellent  Gingerwine. 

Put  into  a  very  nice  boiler  ten  gallons  of  water, 
twelve  pounds  and  a  half  of  lump  sugar,  with  the 
whites  of  six  or  eight  eggs  well  beaten  and  strain- 
ed ;  mix  all  well  while  cold  ;  when  the  liquor  boils, 
skim  it  well  ;  put  in  half  a  pound  of  common  white 
ginger  bruised,  boil  it  twenty  minutes.  Have  ready 
the  very  thin  rinds  of  ten  lemons,  and  pour  the  li- 


HOME  BREWERY.  24:; 

quor  on  them  ;  when  cooU  turn  it  with  two  spoon- 
fuls of  yeast  ;  put  a  quart  of  the  hquor  to  two 
ounces  of  isinglass  shavings,  while  warm,  ivhisk  it 
well  three  or  four  times,  and  pour  all  together  into 
the  barrel.  Next  day  stop  it  up  ;  in  three  weeks  bot- 
tle, and  in  three  months  it  will  be  a  delicious  and  re- 
freshing liquor ;  and  though  very  cool,  perfectly  safe. 
Another  for  Gingenwine. 

Boil  nine  quarts  of  water  with  six  pounds  of 
lump  sugar,  the  rinds  of  two  or  three  lemons  very 
thinly  pared,  with  two  ounces  of  bruised  white  gin- 
ger half  an  hour  ;  skim.  Put  three  quarters  of  a 
pound  of  raisins  into  the  cask  ;  when  the  liquor  is 
lukewarm,  tun  it  with  the  juice  of  two  lemons 
strained,  and  a  spoonful  and  a  half  of  yeast.  Stir  it 
daily,  then  put  in  half  a  pint  of  brandy,  and  half  an 
ounce  of  isinglass  shavings  ;  stop  it  up,  and  bottle 
it  six  or  seven  weeks.  Do  not  put  the  lemonpeel 
in  the  barrel. 

Alder  lOinc. 

To  every  quart  of  berries  put  two  quarts  of  vrater, 
hoil  half  an  hour,  run  the  liquor,  and  break  the  fruit 
through  a  hair  sieve  ;  then  to  every  quart  of  juice, 
put  three  quarters  of  a  pound  of  Lisbon  sugar,  not 
the  very  coarsest,  but  coarse.  Boil  the  whole  a 
quarter  of  an  hour  with  some  Jamaica  peppers, 
ginger,  and  a  few  cloves.  Pour  it  into  a  tub,  and 
when  of  a  proper  warmth  into  the  ban^el,  with  toast 
and  yeast  to  work,  which  there  is  more  difficulty  to 
make  it  do  than  most  other  liquors.  V/hen  it  ceases 
y2 


244  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

to  hiss,  put  a  quart  of  brandy  to  eight  gallons,  and 
stop  up.     Bottle  in  the -spring  or  at  Christmas. 
White  Alder 'w'lne ;   very  much  like  Frontiniac. 

Boil  eighteen  pounds  of  white  powder  sugar, 
with  six  gallons  of  water,  and  two  whites  of  eggs 
well  beaten  ;  then  skim  it,  and  put  in  a  quarter  of  a 
peck  of  alderflowers  from  the  tree  that  bears  avhite 
berries  ;  do  not  keep  them  on  the  fire.  When 
near  cold,  stir  it,  and  put  in  six  spoonfuls  of  lemon- 
juice,  four  or  five  of  yeast,  and  beat  well  into  the 
liquor ;  stir  it  every  day  ;  put  six  pounds  of  the 
best  raisins,  stoned,  into  the  cask,  and  tun  the  wine. 
Stop  it  close,  and  bottle  in  six  months. 

When  well  kept,  this  wine  will  pass  for  Fronti- 
niac. 

Clary  Wine, 

Boil  fifteen  gallons  of  water,  with  fortyfive  pounds 
of  sugar,  skim  it,  when  cool  put  a  httle  to  a  quarter 
of  a  pint  of  yeast,  and  so  by  degrees  add  a  little 
more.  In  an  hour  pour  the  small  quantity  to  the 
large,  pour  the  liquor  on  claryflowers,  picked  in  the 
dry  ;  the  quantity  for  the  above  is  twelve  quarts. 
Those  who  gather  from  their  own  garden  may  not 
have  sufficient  to  put  in  at  once,  and  may  add  as 
they  can  get  them,  keeping  account  of  each  quart. 
When  it  ceases  to  hiss,  and  the  flowers  are  all  in, 
stop  it  up  for  four  months.  Rack  it  oif,  empty 
the  barrel  of  the  dregs,  and  adding  a  gallon  of  the 
best  brandy,  stop  it  up,  and  let  it  stand  six  or  eight 
weeks,  then  bottle  it. 


HOME  BREWERY.  i>45 

A  rich  and  pleasant  Wine, 

Take  new  cyder  from  the  press,  mix  it  with  as 
much  honey  as  will  support  an  ^gg,  boil  gently  fif- 
teen minutes,  but  not  in  an  iron,  brass,  or  copper 
pot.  Skim  it  well  ;  when  cool,  let  it  be  tunned, 
but  do  not  quite  fill.  In  March  following  bottle  it, 
and  it  will  be  fit  to  drink  in  six  weeks  ;  will  be  less 
sweet  if  kept  longer  in  the  cask.  You  will  have  a 
rich  and  strong  wine,  and  it  will  keep  well.  This 
will  serve  for  any  culinary  purposes  which  sack,  or 
sweet  wine,  are  directed  for. 

Duhamel  says,  honey  is  a  fine  ingredient  to  assist, 
and  render  palatable,  new  crabbed  austere  cider. 
Raisinzuine,  with  Cider. 

Put  two  hundred  weight  of  Malaga  raisins  into 
a  cask,  and  pour  upon  them  a  hogshead  of  good 
sound  cider  that  is  not  rough.  Stir  it  well  two  or 
three  days  ;  stop  it,  and  let  it  stand  six  months  ; 
then  rack  into  a  cask  that  it  will  fill,  and  put  in  a 
gallon  of  the  best  brandy. 

If  raisinwine  be  much  used,  it  would  answer 
well  to  keep  a  cask  always  for  it,  and  bottle  off  one 
year's  wine  just  in  time  to  make  the  next,  which, 
allowing  the  six  months  of  infusion,  would  make 
the  wine  to  be  eighteen  months  old.  In  cider 
countries  this  way  is  very  economical  ;  and  even  if 
not  thought  strong  enough,  the  addition  of  another 
quarter  of  a  hundred  of  raisins  would  be  sufficient, 
and  the  Vv4ne  would  still  be  very  cheap. 

When  the  raisins  are  pressed  through  a  horse- 
hair bag,  they  will  either  produce  a  veiy  good  spirit 


246  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

by  distillation,  and  must  be  sent  to  a  chymist  who 
will  do  it  (but  if  for  that  purpose,  they  must  be  very 
little  pressed  ;)  or  they  will  make  excellent  vine- 
gar, on  which  article  see  page  117. 

The  stalks  should  be  picked  off  for  the  above, 
and  may  be  thrown  into  any  cask  of  vinegar  that  is 
making  ;  being  very  acid. 

Raisinivine,  without  CUei: 

On  four  hundred  weight  of  Malagas  pour  one 
hogshead  of  spring  water,  stir  well  daily  for  four- 
teen days,  then  squeeze  the  raisins  in  a  horsehair 
bag  in  a  press,  and  tun  the  liquor  ;  when  it  ceases 
to  hiss,  stop  it  close.  In  six  months  rack  it  off  into 
another  cask,  or  into  a  tub,  and  after  clearing  out 
the  sediment,  return  it  into  the  same,  but  do  not 
wash  it  ;  add  a  gallon  of  the  best  brandy,  stop  it 
close,  and  in  six  months  bottle  it. 

Take  care  of  the  pressed  fruit,  for  the  uses  of 
which  refer  to  the  preceding  receipt.  < 

Rafifia, 

Blanch  two  ounces  of  peach  and  apricot  kernels, 
bruise  and  put  them  into  a  bottle,  and  fill  nearly  up 
with  brandy.  Dissolve  half  a  pound  of  white  sugar- 
candy  in  a  cup  of  cold  water,  and  add  to  the  brandy 
after  it  has  stood  a  month  on  the  kernels,  and  they 
are  strained  off  ;  then  filter  through  paper,  and 
bottle  for  use. 

R  aspberry  brandy. 

Pick  fine  dry  fruit,  put  into  a  stone  jar,  and  the 


HOME  BREWERY.  g4t 

jar  into  a  kettle  of  water,  or  on  a  hot  hearth,  till  the 
juice  will  run  ;  strain,  and  to  every  pint  add  half  a 
pound  of  sugar,  give  one  boil,  and  skim  it  ;  when 
cold,  put  equal  quantities  of  juice  and  brandy,  shake 
well,  and  bottle.  Some  people  prefer  it  stronger  of 
the  brandy. 

Verier.,  or  Mllkpttnch. 

Pare  six  oranges,  and  six  lemons  as  thin  as  you 
can,  grate  them  after  with  sugar  to  get  the  flavour. 
Steep  the  peels  in  a  bottle  of  rum  or  brandy  stopped 
close  twenty  four  hours.  Squeeze  the  fruit  on  a 
pound  and  a  half  of  sugar,  add  to  it  four  quarts  of 
water,  and  one  of  new  milk  boihng  hot  ;  stir  the 
rum  into  the  above,  and  run  it  through  a  jellybag 
till  perfectly  clear.  Bottle,  and  cork  close  imme- 
diately. 

Norfolkpunch. 

Pare  six  lemons  and  three  Seville  oranges  very 
thin,  squeeze  the  juice  into  a  large  teapot,  put  to  it 
two  quarts  of  brandy,  one  of  white  wine,  and  one  of 
milk,  and  one  pound  and  a  quarter  of  sugar.  Let 
it  be  mixed,  and  then  covered  for  twenty  four  hours, 
strain  through  a  jellybag  till  clear  ;  then  bottle  it. 
Orange,  or  Lemonsyrup  ;  a  most  useful  thing  to  keep 
in  the  house,  to  take  'with  nvater,  in  colds  or  fevers , 

Squeeze  the  juice  of  very  good  fruit,  and  boil 
when  strained,  a  pint  to  a  pound  of  sugar,  over  a 
very  gentle  fire  ;  skim  it  well  ;  when  clear,  pour  it 
into  a  China  bowl,  and  in  twenty  four  hours  bottle  it 
for  use. 


248  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

White  Currantshruh. 
Strip  the  fruit,  and  prepare  in  a  jar  as  for  jelly  ; 
strain  the  juice,  of  which  put  two  quarts  to  one  gal- 
lon of  rum,  and  two  pounds  of  lump  sugar  ;  strain 
through  a  jellybag. 


The  following  pages  will  contain  Cookery  for 
the  sick  ;  it  being  of  more  consequence  to  support 
those  whose  bad  appetites  will  not  allow  them  to 
take  the  necessary  nourishment,  than  to  stimulate 
those  that  are  in  health. 

It  may  not  be  unnecessary  to  advise  that  a  choice 
be  made  of  the  things  most  likely  to  agree  with  the 
patient  ;  that  a  change  be  provided  ;  that  some  one 
at  least  be  always  ready  ;  that  not  too  much  of  those 
be  made  at  once,  which  are  not  likely  to  keep,  as 
invalids  require  variety  ;  and  let  them  succeed  each 
other  in  a  different  form  and  flavour. 
yl  great  Restorative. 

Bake  two  calf's  feet  in  three  pints  of  water,  and 
new  milk,  in  a  jar  close  covered,  three  hours  and  a 
half.     When  cold  remove  the  fat. 

Give  a  large  teacupful  the  last  and  first  thing. 
"Whatever  flavour  is  approved,  give  it  by  baking  in 
it  lemonpeel,  cinnamon,  or  mace.     Add  sugar. 
Another. 

Simmer  six  sheep's  trotters,  two  blades  of  mace, 
a  little  cinnamon,  lemonpeel,  a  few  hartshorn  shav^ 
ings,  and  a  httle  isinglass,  in  two  quarts  of  water  to 


FOR.  THE  SICK.  249 

one  ;  when  cold  take  off  the  fat,  and  give  near  half  a 

pint  twice  a  day  ;  warming  with  it  a  httle  new  milk. 

An^.ther. 

Boil  one  ounce  of  isinglass  shavings,  forty  Jamai- 
ca peppers,  and  a  bit  of  brown  crust  of  bread,  in  a 
quart  of  water  to  a  pint,  and  strain  it. 

This  makes  a  pleasant  jelly  to  keep  in  the  house  ; 
of  which  a  large  spoonful  may  be  taken  in  wine  and 
water,  milk,  tea,  soup,  or  any  way. 

Another  most  pleasant  Draught. 

Boil  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  isinglass  shavings 
with  a  pint  of  new  milk  to  half,  add  a  bit  of  sugar, 
and,  for  change,  a  bitter  almond.  Give  this  at 
night,  not  too  warm. 

Blamange,  Dutch  Flummery,  and  Jellies,  as  di- 
rected pages  165  and  166,  or  less  rich  according  to 
judgment. 

A  very  nourishing  Vealhroth. 

Put  the  knuckle  of  a  leg  or  shoulder  of  veal,  wnth 
ver^^  little  meat  to  it,  an  old  fowl,  and  four  shank- 
bones  of  mutton  extremely  well  soaked  and  brush- 
ed, three  blades  of  mace,  ten  peppercorns,  an  onion, 
and  a  large  bit  of  bread,  and  three  quarts  of  water, 
into  a  stewpot  that  covers  close,  and  simmer  in  the 
slov^est  manner  after  it  has  boiled  up,  and  been 
skimmed  ;  or,  bake  it ;  strain  and  take  off  the  fat . 
Salt  as  wanted. 

A  clear  Broth  that  ivill  keep  long. 

Put  the  mouse  round  of  beef,  a  knucklebone  of 
veal,  and  a  few  shanks  of  mutton  into  a  deep  pan, 


250  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

and  cover  close  with  a  dish  or  coarse  crust  ;  bake 
till  the  beef  is  done  enough  for  eating,  with  only  a» 
much  water  as  will  cover.  ¥/hen  cold,  cover  it 
close  in  a  cool  place.  When  to  be  used,  give  what 
flavour  may  be  approved. 

Dr.  Ratclyff^s  restorative   Porhjelly, 

Take  a  leg  of  well  fed  pork,  just  as  cut  up,  beat 
it,  and  break  the  bone.  Set  it  over  a  gentle  fire^ 
with  three  gallons  of  water,  and  simmer  to  one. 
Let  half  an  ounce  of  mace,  and  the  same  of  nut- 
megs, stew  in  it.  Strain  through  a  fine  sieve. 
When  cold,  take  off  the  fat.  Give  a  chocolate  cup  the 
first  and  last  thing,  and  at  noon,  putting  salt  to  taste. 
Beeftea. 

Cut  a  pound  of  fleshy  beef  in  thin  slices,  sim- 
mer with  a  quart  of  water  twenty  minutes,  after  it 
has  once  boiled,   and  been   skimmed.     Season,  if 
approved  ;  but  it  has  generally  only  salt. 
Broth  of  Beef,  Muttony  and  Veal, 

Put  two  pounds  of  lean  beef,  two  pounds  of  scrag" 
of  mutton,  svv'eet  herbs,  and  ten  peppercorns,  into  a 
nice  tin  saucepan,  with  five  qua"ts  of  water  ;  sim- 
mer  to  three  quarts ;  and  clear  from  the  fat  when  cold. 

Note,  That  soup  and  broth  made  of  different 
meats  are  more  supporting,  as  well  as  better  fla- 
voured. 

TWO   WAYS    OF    PREPARING   A   CHICKEN. 

Chickenpanada. 
Boil  it  till  about  three  parts  ready  in  a  quart  of 
water,  take  off  the  skin,  cut  the  white  meat  off 


FOR  THE  SICK.  251 

when  cold,  and  put  into  a  marble  mortar ;  pound  it 
to  a  paste  with  a  httle  of  the  water  it  was  boiled  in, 
season  with  a  Httle  salt,  a  grate  of  nutmeg,  and  the 
least  bit  of  lemonpeel.  Boil  gently  for  a  few  mi- 
nutes to  the  consistency  you  like  ;  it  should  be  such 
as  you  can  drink,  though  tolerably  thick. 

This  conveys  great  nourishment  in  small  compass. 
Cklckenbrrjth. 

Put  the  body  and  legs  of  the  fowl  that  the  panada 
was  made  of,  taking  off  the  skin  and  rump,  into  the 
water  it  was  boiled  in,  with  one  blade  of  mace,  one 
slice  of  onion,  and  ten  white  peppercorns.  Sim- 
mer till  the  broth  be  of  a  pleasant  flavour.  If  not 
water  enough,  add  a  little.  Beat  a  quarter  of  an 
ounce  of  sweet  almonds,  with  a  teaspoonful  of  wa- 
ter, fine,  boil  it  in  the  broth,  strain,  and  when  cold, 
remove  the  fat. 

Shankjeliy. 

Soak  twelve  shanks  of  mutton  four  hours,  then 
brush  and  scour  them  verj'  clean.  Lay  them  in  a 
saucepan  with  three  blades  of  mace,  an  onion, 
twenty  Jamaica,  and  thirty  or  forty  black  peppers, 
a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  and  a  crust  of  bread  m.ade 
very  brown  by  toasting.  Pour  three  quarts  of  wa- 
ter to  them,  and  set  them  on  a  hot  hearth  close 
covered  ;  let  them  simmer  as  gently  as  possible 
for  five  hour-i,  then  strain  it  off,  and  put  it  in  a  cold 

This  may  have  the  addition  of  a  pound  of  beef, 
if  approved,  for  flavour. 


252  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

Eelhroth. 

Clean  half  a  pound  of  small  eels,  and  set  them 
on  with  three  pints  of  water,  some  parsley,  one  slice 
of  onion,  a  few  peppercorns  ;  let  them  simmer  till 
the  eels  are  broken,  and  the  broth  good.  Add 
salt. 

The  above  should  make  three  half  pints  of  broth. 
Tenchbroth. 

Make  as  above.  They  are  both  very  nutritious, 
and  light  of  digestion. 

A  quick  made  Broth, 

Take  a  bone  or  two  of  a  neck  or  loin  of  mutton, 
take  off  the  fat  and  skin,  set  it  on  the  fire  in  a  small 
tin  saucepan  that  has  a  cover,  with  three  quarters 
of  a  pint  of  water,  the  meat  being  first  beaten,  and 
cut  in  thin  bits  ;  put  a  bit  of  thyme  and  parsley, 
and,  if  approved,  a  slice  of  onion.  Let  it  boil  very 
quick,  skim  it  nicely  ;  take  off  the  cover,  if  likely 
to  be  too  weak  ;  else  cover  it.  Half  an  hour  is 
sufficient  for  the  whole  process. 

Calf's  feet  Broth, 

Boil  two  feet  in  three  quarts  of  water  to  half ; 
strain  and  set  it  by.  When  to  be  used,  take  off  the 
fat,  put  a  large  teacupful  of  the  jelly  into  a  sauce- 
pan, with  half  a  glass  of  sweet  wine,  a  little  sugai* 
and  nutmeg,  and  beat  it  up  till  it  be  ready  to  boil, 
then  take  a  little  of  it,  and  beat  by  degrees  to  the 
yelk  of  an  egg,  and  adding  a  bit  of  butter,  the  size 
of  a  nutmeg,  stir  it  all  together,  but  do  not  let  it 
boil.     Grate  a  bit  of  fresh  lemonpeel  into  it. 


FOR  THE  SICK.  253 

Another, 

Boil  two  calf's  feet,  two  ounces  of  veal,  and  two 
of  beef,  the  bottom  of  a  penny  loaf,  two  or  three 
blades  of  mace,  half  a  nutmeg  sliced,  and  a  little 
salt,  in  three  quarts  of  water,  to  three  pints  ;  strain, 
and  take  off  the  fat. 

Panada  ;  made  in  Jive  minutes. 

Set  a  little  water  on  the  fire  with  a  glass  of  white 
wine,  some  sugar,  and  a  scrape  of  nutmeg  and  lera- 
onpeel ;  meanwhile  grate  some  crumbs  of  bread. 
The  moment  the  mixture  boils  up,  keeping  it  still 
on  the  fire,  put  the  crumbs  in,  and  let  it  boil  as  fast 
as  it  can.  When  of  a  proper  thickness  just  to 
drink,  take  it  off. 

Another. 

As  above,  but  instead  of  a  glass  of  wine,  put  in  a 
spoonful,  a  teaspoonful  of  rum,  and  a  bit  of  butter  ; 
sugar  as  above. 

This  is  a  most  pleasant  mess. 
Another, 

Put  to  the  water  a  bit  of  lemonpeel,  mix  the 
crumbs  in,  and  when  nearly  boiled  enough,  put 
some  lemon  or  orangesyrup. 

Observe  to  boil  all  the  ingredients  ;  for  if  any  be 
added  after,  the  panada  will  break,  and  not  jelly. 
Barkyivater. 

Boil  an  ounce  of  pearlbarley  a  few  minutes  to 
cleanse,  then  put  on  it  a  quart  of  water,  simmer 
an  hour  ;  when  half  done,  put  into  it  a  bit  of  fresh 
lempnpeel,  and  one  bit  of  sugar.     If  likely  to  be 


254  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

too  thick,  you  may  put  another  quarter  of  a  pint 
of  water. 

Common  Barleywater. 

Wash  a  handful  of  common  barley,  then  sim- 
mer it  gently  in  three  pints  of  water  with  a  bit  of 
lemonpeel. 

This  is  less  apt  to   nauseate  than  pearlbarley  ; 
but  the  former  is  a  very  pleasant  drink. 
A  very  agreeable  Drink, 

Into  a  tumbler  of  fresh  cold  water  pour  a  table 
spoonful  of  capillaire,  and  the  same  of  good  vinegar. 
Lemonnvater  ;  a  delightful  drink. 

Put  two  slices  of  lemon  thinly  pared  into  a  tea- 
pot, and  a  little  bit  of  the  peel,  and  a  bit  of  sugar, 
or  a  large  spoonful  of  capillaire  ;  pour  in  a  pint  of 
boiling  water,  and  stop  close. 

Applenvater. 

Cut  two  large  apples  in  shces,  and  pour  a  quart 
of  boiling  water  on  them  ;  or  on  roastea  apples. 

Tamarinds,   cuiTants  fresh  or  in  jelly,  or  scalded 
currants,   or  cranberries,   make   excellent   drinks  ; 
with  a  little  sugar  or  not,  as  may  be  agreeable. 
Raspberry  Vincgaricafer.     See  page  240. 

This  is  one  of  the  most  delightful  drinks  thai 
can  be  made. 

Toast  and  Water. 

Toast  slowly  a  thin  piece  of  bread  till  extremely 
brown  and  hard,  but  not  the  least  black,  then  plunge 
it  into  a  jug  of  cold  water,  and  cover  it  over  3u 
hour  before  used. 


FOR  THE  SICK.  255 

Orangeade^  or  Lemonade, 

Squeeze  the  juice  ;  pour  boiling  water  on  a  little 
of  the  peel,  and  cover  close.  Boil  water  and  sugar 
to  a  thin  syrup,  and  skim  it.  When  all  are  cold, 
mix  the  juice,  the  infusion,  and  the  syrup,  with  as 
much  more  water  as  will  make  a  rich  sherbet  ; 
strain  through  a  jellybag.  Or,  squeeze  the  juice, 
and  strain  it,  and  add  water  and  capillaire. 
Orgeat. 

Beat  two  ounces  of  almonds  with  a  teaspoonful 
of  orange  flower  water,  and  a  bitter  almond  or  two  ; 
then  pour  a  quart  of  milk  and  water  to  the  paste. 
Sweeten  with  sugar,  or  capillaire. 

Another  orgeat  for  company,  page  239. 
Milkporridge. 

Make  a  fine  gruel  of  half  grits,   long  boiled  ; 
strain  off ;  either  add  cold  milk,  or  warm  with  milk 
as  may  be  approved.      Serve  with  toast. 
French  Milkporridge, 

Stir  some  oatmeal  and  water  together,  let  it  stand 
to  be  clear,  and  pour  off  the  latter  :  pour  fresh  upon 
it,  stir  it  well,  let  it  stand  till  next  day ;  strain  through 
a  fine  sieve,  and  boil  the  water,  adding  milk  while 
doing.     The  proportion  of  water  must  be  small. 

This  is  much  ordered,  with  toast,  for  the  break- 
fast of  weak  persons  abroad. 
Caudle, 

Make  a  fine  sm.ooth  gruel  of  half  grits  ;  strain  it 
when  boiled  well,  stir  it  at  times  till  cold.     When 
to  be  used,  add  sugar,  wine,  and  lemonpeel,  with 
z2 


356  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

nutmeg.     Some  like  a  spoonful  of  brandy  besides 
the  wine. 

Another  Caudle. 

Boil  up  half  a  pint  of  fine  gruel,   with  a  bit  of 
butter  the  size  of  a  large  nutmeg,  a  large  spoonful 
of  brandy,  the  same  of  white  wine,  one  of  capillaire, 
a  bit  of  lemonpeel  and  nutmeg. 
Rice  Caudle. 

When  the  water  boils,  pour  it  into  some  grated 
rice  mixed  with;  a  little  cold  water  ;  when  of  a  prop- 
er consistence  add  sugar,  lemonpeel  and  cinnamon, 
and  a  glass  of  brandy  to  a  quart.     Boil  all  smooth. 
Cold  Caudle. 

Boil  a  quart  of  spring  water  ;  when  cold,  add  the 
yelk  of  an  egg,  the  juice  of  a  small  lemon,  six 
spoonfuls  of  sweet  wine,  sugar  to  your  taste  ;  and 
syrup  of  lemons  one  ounce. 

A  refreshing  Drink  in  a  Fever. 

Put  a  little  teasage,  two  sprigs  of  balm,  and  a 
little  woodsorrel  into  a  stone  jug,  having  first  wash- 
ed and  dned  them  ;  peel  thin  a  small  lemon,  and 
clear  from  the  white  ;  slice  it,  and  put  a  bit  of  the 
peel  in,  then  pour  in  three  pints  of  boiling  water, 
sweeten,  and  cover  it  close. 

Another  Drink, 

Wash  extremely  well  an  ounce  of  pearlbarley  ; 
shift  it  twice,  then  put  to  it  three  pints  of  water, 
an  ounce  of  sweet  almonds  beaten  fine,  and  a  bit  of 
lemonpeel.  Boil  till  you  have  a  smooth  hquor, 
then  put  in  a  little  syrup  of  lemons  and  capillaire, 


FOR  THE  SICK.  257 

j4 not  her  Drink. 

Boil  three  pints  of  water  with  an  ounce  and  a  half 
ef  tamarinds,  three  ounces  of  currants,  and  two 
ounces  of  stoned  raisins,  till  near  a  third  be  con- 
sumed.     Strain  it. 

■yl  most  pleasant  Dr'inh. 

Put  a  teacupful  of  cranberries  into  a  cup  of  wa- 
ter, and  mash  them.  In  the  mean  time  boil  two 
quarts  and  a  pint  of  water  with  one  large  spoonful 
of  oatmeal,  and  a  very  large  bit  of  lemonpeel  :  then 
add  the  cranberries,  and  as  much  fine  Lisbon  sugar 
as  shall  leave  a  smart  flavour  of  the  fruit  ;  and  a 
quarter  of  a  pint  of  sherry  or  less,  as  may  be  prop- 
er ;  boil  all  for  half  an  hour,  and  strain  off. 
Whey, 

That  of  cheese  is  a  very  wholesome  drink,  espe- 
cially vvhen  the  cows  are  in  fresh  herbage. 
IVhiie  Wtnezvhey. 

Put  half  a  pint  of  new  milk  on  the  fire  ;  the  mo- 
ment it  boils  up,  pour  in  as  much  sound  raisin  wine 
as  will  completely  turn  it,  and  it  looks  clear  ;  let  it 
boil  up,  then  set  the  saucepan  aside  till  the  curd 
subsides,  and  do  not  stir  it.  Pour  the  whey  oft, 
fUid  add  to  it  half  a  pint  of  boiling  water,  and  a  bit 
of  white  sugar.  Thus  you  will  have  a  whey  per- 
fectly cleared  of  milky  particles,  and  as  weak  as 
you  choose  to  make  it. 

Vinegar  and  Lemonivheys, 

Pour  into  boiling  milk  as  above,  and  when  clear,  di- 
lute with  boiling  water,  and  put  a  bit  or  two  of  sugar. 


258  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

Eggwine, 

Beat  an  egg,  mix  with  it  a  spoonful  of  cold 
water ;  set  on  the  fire  a  glass  of  white  wine,  half  a 
glass  of  water  and  sugar,  and  nutmeg.  When  it 
boils,  pour  a  little  of  it  to  the  egg  by  degrees,  till 
the  whole  be  in,  stirring  it  well  ;  then  return  the 
whole  into  the  saucepan,  put  it  on  a  gentle  fire, 
stir  it  one  way  for  not  more  than  a  minute  ;  for  if 
it  boil,  or  the  egg  be  stale,  it  will  curdle.  Serve 
with  toast. 

Eggwine  may  be  made  as  above,  without  warm- 
ing the  eggf  and  it  is  then  Hghter  on  the  stomach, 
though  not  so  pleasant  to  the  taste. 

An  egg  broken  into  a  cup  of  tea,  or  beaten  and 
mixed  with  a  bason  of  milk,  makes  a  breakfast 
more  supporting  than  tea. 

An  egg  divided,  and  the  yelk  and  white  beaten 
separately,  then  mixed  with  a  glass  of  wine,  will 
afford  two  very  wholesome  draughts,  and  prove; 
lighter  than  when  taken  together. 

Eggs  very  little  boiled  or  poached,  taken  in  small 
quantity,  convey  much  nourishment. 
T/ye  folic  wing  is  a  particularly  soft  and  fine  draughty 

to  be  taken  the  first  and  last  thing,  by  those  nvho  are 

-ueah,  and  have  a  cough* 

Beat  a  fresh  laid  egg,  and  mix  it  with  a  quar- 
ter of  a  pint  of  nev>''  milk  warmed,  a  large  spoonful 
of  capillaire,  the  same  of  rose  water,  and  a  little 
nutmeg  scraped.  Do  not  warm  after  the  egg  is, 
put  in. 


FOR  THE  SICK.  259 

Chocolate. 

Those  who  use  much  of  this  article,  will  find  the 
following  mode  of  preparing  both  useful  and  eco- 
nomical. 

Cut  a  cake  of  chocolate  in  very  small  bits  ;  put 
a  pint  of  water  into  the  pot,  and,  when  it  boils,  put 
in  the  above  ;  mill  it  off  the  fire  until  quite  melted, 
then  on  a  gentle  fire  till  it  boil  ;  pour  it  into  a  ba- 
son, and  it  will  keep  in  a  cool  place  eight  or  ten 
days,  or  more.  When  wanted,  put  a  spoonful  or 
two  into  milk,  boil  it  with  sugar,  and  mill  it  well. 

This,  if  not  made  thick,  is  a  very  good  breakfast 
or  supper. 

To  mahe  Coffee, 

Put  two  ounces  of  fresh  ground  coffee  of  the  best 
quality  into  a  coffee  pot,  and  pour  eight  coffee  cups 
of  boiling  water  on  it  ;  let  it  boil  six  minutes,  pour 
out  a  cupful  two  or  three  times,  and  return  it  again  ; 
then  put  two  or  three  isinglass  chips  into  it,  and 
pour  one  large  spoonful  of  boiling  water  on  it  ;  boil 
it  five  minutes  more,  and  set  the  pot  by  the  fire  to 
keep  hot  for  ten  minutes,  and  you  will  have  coffee, 
of  a  beautiful  clearness. 

Fine  cream  should  always  be  served  with  coffee, 
and  either  pounded  sugarcandy,  or  fine  Lisbon  su- 
gar. 

If  for  foreigners,  or  those  who  like  it  extremely 
strong,  make  only  eight  dishes  from  three  ounces. 
If  not  fresh  roasted,  lay  it  before  a  fire  until  per- 
fectly hot  and  dry  ;  or  you  may  put  the  smallest 


260  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

bit  of  fresh  butter  into  a  preservingpan  of  a  small 
$ize,  and,  when  hot,  throw  the  coffee  in  it,  and  toss 
it  about  until  it  be  freshened. 
Coffee  MilL 

Boil  a  dessert  spoonful  of  ground  coffee,  in  nearly 
a  pint  of  milk,  a  quarter  of  an  hour  ;  then  put  into 
it  a  shaving  or  two  of  isinglass,  and  clear  it.  Let 
it  boil  a  few  minutes,  and  set  it  on  the  side  of  the 
fire  to  grow  fine. 

This   is  a  very  fine   breakfast.      It   should  be 
sweetened  with  real  Lisbon  sugar  of  a  good  quality. 
Ground  Rice  Milk. 

Boil  one  spoonful  of  ground  rice,  rubbed  down 
smooth,  with  three  half  pints  of  milk,  a  bit  of  cin- 
namon, lemonpeel,  and  nutmeg.  Sweeten  when 
nearly  done. 

Tapiocajelly, 

Choose  the  largest  sort,  pour  cold  water  on  to 
wash  it  two  or  three  times,  then  soak  it  in  fresh 
water  five  or  six  hours,  and  simmer  it  in  the  same 
until  it  become  quite  clear  ;  then  put  lemonjuice, 
wine,  and  sugar.  The  peel  should  have  been  boiled 
in  it.  It  thickens  very  much. 
Sago. 

To  prevent  the  earthy  taste,  soak  it  in  cold  wa- 
ter an  hour  ;  pour  that  off,  and  wash  it  well ;  then 
add  more,  and  simmer  gently  till  the  berries  are 
clear,  with  lemonpeel  and  spice,  if  approved.  Add 
wine  and  sugar,  and  boil  all  up  together. 


FOR  THE  SICK.  261 

Sago  Milk, 

Cleanse  as  above,  and  boil  it  slowly  and  wholly 
with  new  milk.  It  swells  so  much  that  a  small 
quantity  will  be  sufficient  for  a  quart,  and  when 
done  it  will  be  diminished  to  about  a  pint.  It  re- 
quires no  sugar,  or  flavouring. 

Arronvrcotjelly, 

Of  this  beware  of  having  the  wrong  sort  ;  for  it 
has  been  counterfeited  with  bad  effect. 

Mix  a  large  spoonful  of  the  powder  with  a  tea- 
cup of  cold  water,  by  degrees,  and  quite  smooth. 
Put  rather  more  than  a  pint  of  water  over  the  fire, 
with  some  white  sugar,  scraped  nutmeg,  and  a 
spoonful  and  a  half  of  brandy,  or  two.  The  mo- 
ment it  boils,  pour  the  powder  and  water  in,  stir- 
ring it  well  ;  and  when  it  boils  up  it  is  done. 

This  is  a  veiy  useful  thing  in  a  house  ;  and  in 
the  above  mode  a  sick  person  may  be  supplied  with 
a  fine  supporting  meal  in  a  few  minutes. 

This  and  the  following  are  particularly  good  ia 
bowel  complaints. 

A  Flour  Caudle. 

Into  five  large  spoonfuls  of  the  purest  water,  rub 
smooth  one  dessertspoonful  of  fine  flour.  Set  over 
the  fire  five  spoonfuls  of  new  milk,  and  put  two  bits 
of  sugar  into  it  ;  the  moment  it  boils,  pour  into 
it,  the  flour  and  water,  and  stir  it  over  a  slow  fire 
twenty  minutes. 

A  Rice  Caudle. 

Soak  some  Carolina  rice  in  water  an  hour,  strain 


262  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

it,  and  put  two  spoonfuls  of  the  rice  into  a  pint  and 
a  quarter  of  milk  ;  simmer  till  it  will  pulp  through 
a  sieve,  then  put  the  pulp  and  milk  into  the  sauce- 
pan, with  a  bruised  clove  and  a  bit  of  white  sugar. 
Simmer  ten  minutes  ;  if  too  thick,  add  a  spoonful 
Or  two  of  milk,  and  serve  with  thin  toast. 
Gloucester]  elly. 

Take  rice,  sago,  pearlbarley,  hartshorn  shavings 
and  eringoroot,  e^ch  an  ounce  ;  simmer  with  two 
pints  of  water  to  one,  and  strain  it.  When  cold 
it  will  be  a  jelly  ;  of  which  give,  dissolved  in  wine, 
milk,  or  broth,  in  change  with  other  nourishment. 
MiiUedtuine. 

Boil  some  spice  in  a  little  water  till  the  flavour  is 
gained,  then  add  an  equal  quantity  of  port,  some  su- 
gar and  nutmeg  ;  boil  together,  and  serve  with  toast. 
Asses'  Milk 

Far  surpasses  any  imitation  of  it  that  can  be 
made.  It  should  be  milked  into  a  glass  that  is  kept 
warm  by  being  in  a  bason  of  hot  water. 

The  fixed  air  that  it  contains  gives  some  people 
a  pain  in  the  stomach. 

At  first  a  teaspoonful  of  rum  may  be  taken  with 
it,  but  should  only  be  put  in  the  moment  it  is  to  be 
swallowed. 

Artificial  Asses'  Milk. 

Boil  together  a  quart  of  water,  a  quart  of  new 
milk,  an  ounce  of  white  sugarcandy,  half  an  ounce 
of  eringoroot,  and  half  an  ounce  of  conserve  of 
roses,  till  half  be  wasted. 


FOR  THE  SICK.  263 

This  is  astringent  ;  therefore  proportion  the 
doses  to  the  effect. 

Another^ 

Mix  two  spoonfuls  of  boiling  water,  two  of 
milk,  and  an  egg  well  beaten  ;  sweeten  with, 
pounded  white  sugarcandy. 

This  may  be  taken  twice  or  thrice  a  day. 
y^nolher. 

Boil  two  ounces  of  hartshorn  shavings,  two  ounces 
of  pearl  barley,  two  ouncs  of  candied  eringoroot, 
and  one  dozen  of  snails  that  have  been  bruised,  in 
two  quarts  of  water  to  one.  Mix  with  an  equal 
quantity  of  new  milk,  when  taken,  twice  a  day. 
Buttermilk,  with  bread  or  av'ithout. 

It  is  most  wholesome  when  sour,  as  being  less 
likely  to  be  heavy,  but  most  agreeable  when  made 
of  sweet  cream. 

Dr.  Boerhaave* s  sweet  Buttermilk. 

Take  the  milk  from  the  cow  into  a  small  churn, 
of  about  six  shillings  price  ;  in  about  ten  minutes 
begin  churning,  and  continue  till  the  flakes  of  but- 
ter swim  about  pretty  thick,  and  the  milk  is  dis- 
charged of  all  the  greasy  particles,  and  appears 
thin  and  blue.  Strain  it  through  a  sieve,  and 
drink  it  as  frequently  as  possible. 

It  should  form  the  whole  of  the  patient's  drink, 
and  the  food  should  be  biscuit  and  rusks,  in  ever/ 
way  and  sort ;  ripe  and  dried  fruits  of  various  kinds, 
when  a  decline  is  apprehended. 

Baked  and  dried   fruits,  raisins  in    particular, 


264  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

make  excellent  suppers  for  invalids,  with  biscuit  or 
common  cake. 

When  the  Stomach  ivill  not  receive  Meat. 

On  an  extreme  hot  plate  put  two  or  three  sippets 
of  bread,  and  pour  over  them  some  gravy  from 
beef,  mutton,  or  veal,  if  there  is  no  butter  in  the 
dish.      Sprinkle  a  little  salt  over. 

This  is  much  lighter  than  meat,  and  conveys  a 
great  deal  of  nourishment  in  a  small  form. 

Toast  hard  and  dry  a  thin  bit  of  bread,  soak  it 
in  water,  or  port  wine  and  water,  take  it  out  and 
sift  a  little  sugar,  and,  if  you  like  it,  nutmeg. 

Or  pour  boiling  water  over  a  captain's  biscuit, 
broken  in  pieces,  and  steam  it  dovv^n  in  a  bason  ; 
when  soft,  add  a  little  strong  souchong  tea,  cream, 
and  sugar,  or  wine,  sugar,  and  nutmeg  ;  or  a  tea- 
cupful  of  weak  rum,  or  brandy  and  water,  with 
sugar,  just  to  give  taste. 

Saloop. 

Boil  a  little  water,  with  wine,  lemonpeel,  and 
sugar,  together  ;  then  mix  Vv'ith  a  small  quantity  of 
the  powder,  previously  rubbed  smooth,  with  a  lit- 
tle cold  water  j  stir  it  all  together,  and  boil  It  a  few 
minutes. 


I  promised  a  few  hints,  to  enable  every  family  to 
assist  the  poor  of  their  neighbourhood  at  a  very 
trivial  expense  ;  and  these  may  be  varied  or  amend- 
ed at  the  discretion  of  the  mistress. 


RESPECTING  THE  POOR.  265 

Where  cows  are  kept,  a  jug  of  skimmed  milk  is 
a  valuable  present. 

When  the  oven  is  hot,  a  large  pudding  may  be 
baked,  and  given  to  a  sick  or  young  family  ;  and 
thus  made,  the  trouble  is  little  :  into  a  deep  coarse 
pan  put  half  a  pound  of  rice,  four  ounces  of  coarse 
sugar  or  treacle,  two  quarts  of  milk,  and  two  ounces 
of  dripping,  set  it  cold  into  the  oven.  It  will  take 
a  good  while,  but  be  an  excellent  solid  food. 

A*  ver)--  good  meal  may  be  bestowed  in  a  thing 
called  Brewis, "  which  is  thus  made  :  cut  a  very 
thick  upper  crust  of  bread  and  put  it  into  the  pot 
where  salt  beef  is  boiling  and  near  ready  ;  it  will  at- 
tract some  of  the  fat,  and,  when  swelled  out,  will  be 
no  unpalatable  dish  to  those  who  rarely  taste  meat. 
A  baked  Soup. 

Put  a  pound  of  any  kind  of  meat  cut  in  slices  ; 
two  onions,  two  carrots,  ditto  ;  two  ounces  of  rice, 
a  pint  of  split  peas,  or  whole  ones  if  previously 
soaked,  pepper  and  salt,  into  an  earthen  jug  or  pan, 
and  pour  one  gallon  of  water.  Cover  it  very  close, 
and  bake  it  with  the  bread. 

The  cook  should  be  charged  to  save  the  boiling  of 
every  piece  of  meat,  ham,  tongue,  &c.  however  salt : 
as  it  is  easy  to  use  only  a  part  of  that,  and  the  rest 
of  fresh  water,  and  by  the  addition  of  more  vegeta- 
bles, the  bones  of  the  meat  used  in  the  family,  the 
pieces  of  meat  that  come  from  table  on  the  plates, 
and  rice,  Scotch  barley  or  oatmeal,  there  will  be 
8ome  gallons  of  nutritious  soup  two  or  three  times 


26S  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

a  week.  The  bits  of  meat  should  be  only  warmed 
in  the  soup,  and  remain  whole  ;  the  bones,  &c.  boil- 
ed till  they  yield  their  nourishment.  If  the  things 
are  ready  to  put  in  the  boiler  as  soon  as  the  meat  be 
served,  it  will  save  hghting  fire  and  second  cooking. 

Turnips,  carrots,  leeks,  potatoes,  or  any  sort  of 
vegetable  that  is  at  hand,  should  be  used. 

Should  the  soup  be  poor  of  meat,  the  long  boil- 
ing of  the  bones  and  different  vegetables,  will  af- 
ford better  nourishment  than  the  laborious  poor  can 
obtain  ;  especially  as  they  are  rarely  tolerable 
cooks,  and  have  not  fuel  to  do  justice  to  what  they 
buy.  But  in  every  family  there  is  some  super- 
fluity ;  and  if  it  be  prepared  with  cleanliness  and 
care,  the  benefit  will  be  very  great  to  the  receiver, 
and  the  satisfaction  no  less  to  the  giver. 

I  found,  in  the  time  of  scarcity,  ten  or  fifteen 
gallons  of  soup,  could  be  dealt  out  weekly,  at  an 
expense  not  worth  mentioning,  though  the  vegeta- 
bles were  bought.  If  in  the  villages  about  Lon- 
don, abounding  with  opulent  families,  the  quantity 
of  ten  gallons  were  made  in  ten  gentlemen's  houses, 
there  would  be  a  hundred  gallons  of  wholesome 
agreeable  food  given  weekly  for  the  supply  of  forty 
poor  families,  at  the  rate  of  tw^o  gallons  and  a  half 
each. 

What  a  relief  to  the  labouring  husband,  instead 
of  bread  and  cheese,  to  have  a  warm  comfortable 
meal  !  To  the  sick,  aged,  and  infant  branches, 
how  important  an  advantage. 


RESPECTING  THE  POOR.  267 

It  very  rarely  happens,  that  servants  object  to 
seconding  the  kindness  of  their  superiors  to  the 
poor ;  but  should  the  cook  in  any  family  think  the 
adoption  of  this  plan  too  troublesome,  a  gratuity 
at  the  end  of  the  winter  might  repay  her,  if  the 
love  of  her  fellow  creatures  failed  of  doing  it,  a 
hundred  fold.  Did  she  really  enter  into  it,  she 
would  never  wash  away  as  useless  the  pease  or 
grits  of  which  soup  or  gruel  had  been  made  ; 
broken  potatoes,  the  green  heads  of  celery,  the 
necks  and  feet  of  fowls,  and  particularly  the  shanks 
of  mutton,  and  various  other  articles,  which  in  pre- 
paring dinner  for  the  family  are  thrown  aside. 

Fish  affords  great  nourishment,  and  that  not  by 
the  part  eaten  only,  but  the  bones,  heads,  and  fins, 
which  contain  an  isinglass.  When  the  fish  is  serv- 
ed, let  the  cook  put  by  some  of  the  water,  and 
stew  in  it  the  above,  as  hkewise  add  the  gravy  that 
is  in  the  dish,  until  she  obtains  all  the  goodness. 
If  to  be  eaten  by  itself,  when  it  makes  a  delight- 
ful broth,  she  should  add  a  very  small  bit  of  onion, 
some  pepper,  and  a  little  rice  flour  rubbed  down 
smooth  with  it. 

But  strained  it  makes  a  delicious  improvement 
to  the  meat  soup,  particularly  for  the  sick  ;  and 
vv^hen  such  are  to  be  supplied,  the  milder  parts  of 
the  spare  bones  and  meat  should  be  made  for  them, 
with  little,  if  any  of  the  liquor  of  the  salt  meats. 

The   fat  should   not   be  takea   orf  the  broth  or 
iQup,  as  the  poor  like  it,  and  are  nourished  by  it, 
aa2 


U6S  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

The  follo'wtng  is  an  excellent  Soup  for  the  weakly. 

Put  two  cowheels  and  a  breast  of  mutton  into  a 
large  pan,  with  four  ounces  of  rice,  one  onion, 
twenty  Jamaica  peppers,  and  twenty  black,  a  tur- 
nip, a  carrot,  and  four  gallons  of  water.  Cover 
with  brown  paper,  and  bake, 
Sago^ 

Put  a  teacupful  of  sago  into  a  quart  of  water, 
and  a  bit  of  lemonpeel  ;  when  thickened,  grate 
some  ginger,  and  add  half  a  pint  of  raisinwine, 
brown  sugar,  and  two  spoonfuls  of  Geneva.  Boil 
all  up  together. 

It  is  a  most  supporting  thing  for  those  whom 
disease  has  left  very  feeble. 

Caudle  for  the  Sick  and  Lyingin. 

Set  three  quarts  of  water  on  the  fire,  mix  smooth 
as  much  oatmeal  as  will  thicken  the  whole  with  a 
pint  of  cold  water  ;  when  boihng,  pour  the  latter 
in,  and  twenty  Jamaica  peppers  in  fine  powder  ; 
boil  to  a  good  middhng  thickness,  then  add  sugar, 
half  a  pint  of  well  fermented  table  beer,  and  a  glas>> 
of  gin.     Boil  all. 

This  mess  twice,  and  once  or  twice  of  broth, 
will  be  of  incalculable  service. 

There  is  not  a  better  occasion  for  charitable 
commiseration  than  when  a  person  is  sick.  A  bit 
of  meat  or  pudding  sent  unexpectedly  has  often 
been  the  means  of  recalling  long  lost  appetite. 

Nor  are  the  indigent  alone  the  grateful  receiv- 
ers ;  for  in  the  highest  houses  a  real  good  sick- 


DIRECTIONS  FOR  SERVANTS.  269 

cook  is  rarely  met  with  j  and  many  who  possess 
all  the  goods  of  fortune,  have  attributed  the  first 
return  of  health  to  some  kitchen  physic. 


USEFUL  DIRECTIONS  TO    GIVE  TO   SERVANTS. 

To  give  to  hoards  a  beautiful  appearance. 

After  washing  them  very  nicely  clean  with  soda 
and  warm  water,  and  a  brush,  wash  them  with  a 
very  large  sponge  and  clean  water.  Both  times 
observe  to  leave  no  spot  untouched,  and  clean 
straight  up  and  down,  not  crossing  from  board  to 
board  ;  then  dry  with  clean  cloths,  rubbing  hard 
up  and  down  in  the  same  way. 

The  floors  should  not  be  often  wetted,  but  very 
thoroughly  when  done  ;  and  once  a  week  dry  rub- 
bed with  hot  sand,  and  a  heavy  brush,  the  right 
way  of  tlie  boards. 

The  sides  of  stairs  or  passages  on  which  are 
carpets,  or  floorcloth,  should  be  washed  vnth 
sponge  instead  of  linen  or  flannel,  and  the  edges 
will  not  be  soiled.  Different  sponges  should  be 
kept  for  the  two  above  uses  ;  and  those  and  the 
brushes  should  be  well  washed  when  done  vnth, 
?.nd  kept  in  dry  places. 

Floorcloths 

Should  be  chosen  that  are  painted  on  a  fine  cloth, 
that  is  well  covered  with  the  colour,  and  the  flowei's 


270  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

on  which  do  not  rise  much  above  the  ground,  as 
they  wear  out  first.  The  durabihty  of  the  cloth 
will  depend  much  on  these  two  particulars,  but 
more  especially  on  the  time  it  has  been  painted, 
and  the  goodness  of  the  colours.  If  they  have  not 
been  allowed  sufficient  space  for  becoming  tho- 
roughly hardened,  a  very  little  use  will  injure  them  ; 
and  as  they  are  very  expensive  articles,  care  in  pre- 
serving them  is  necessary.  It  answers  to  keep 
them  some  time  before  they  are  used,  either  hung 
up  in  a  dry  barn  where  they  will  have  air,  or  laid 
down  in  a  spare  room.  When  taken  up  for  the 
winter,  they  should  be  rolled  round  a  carpet  roller, 
and  observe  not  to  crack  the  paint  by  turning  the 
edges  in  too  close. 

Old  carpets  answer  extremely  well,  painted  and 
seasoned  some  months  before  laid  down.  If  for 
passages,  the  width  must  be  directed  when  they 
are  sent  to  the  manufactory,  as  they  cut  before 
painting. 

To   clean  Floorcloths. 

Sweep,  then  wipe  them  with  a  flannel  ;  and 
when  all  dust  and  spots  are  removed,  rub  with  a 
waxed  flannel,  and  then  with  a  dry  plain  one  ;  but 
use  little  wax,  and  rub  only  enough  with  the  latter 
to  give  a  little  smoothness,  or  it  may  endanger  fall- 
ing. 

Washing  now  and  then  with  milk  after  the  above 
sweeping,  and  dry  rubbing  them,  give  as  beautiful 
a  look,  and  they  are  less  slippery. 


DIRECTIONS  FOR  SERVANTS.  27i 

7b  take  the  black  off  the  bright  bars  of  polished  Stoves 
in  a  fe<w  ?ninufes. 

Rub  them  well  with  some  of  the  following  mix- 
ture on  a  bit  of  broadcloth  ;  when  the  dirt  is  re- 
moved, wipe  them  clean,  and  pohsh  with  glass,  not 
sandpaper. 

The  mixture. 

Boil  slowly  one  pound  of  soft  soap  in  two  quarts 
of  water  to  one.  Of  this  jelly  take  three  or  four 
spoonfuls,  and  mix  to  a  consistence  with  emeiy, 
No  3. 

To  clean  the  back  of  the  grate  ;  the  inner  hearth  ;  and 
of  Castiron  Stoves,  the  fronts. 

Boil  about  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  the  best  black 
lead,  with  a  pint  of  small  beer,  and  a  bit  of  soap 
the  size  of  a  walnut.  When  that  is  melted,  dip  a 
painter*s  brush,  and  wet  the  grate,  having  first 
brushed  off  all  the  soot  and  dust  ;  then  take  a  hard 
brush,  and  rub  it  till  of  a  beautiful  brightness. 
Another  way  to  clean  Castiron,  and  black  Hearths, 

Mix  black  lead  and  whites  of  eggs  beaten  well 
together  ;  dip  a  painter's  brush,  and  wet  all  over, 
then  rub  it  bright  with  a  hard  brush. 

To  preserve  Irons  from  Rust. 

Melt  fresh  mutton  suet,  smear  over  the  iron  with 
it,  while  hot  ;  then  dust  it  well  with  unslacked 
lime  pounded,  and  tied  up  in  a  muslin.  Irons  so 
prepared  will  keep  many  months.  Use  no  oil  for 
them  at  any  time,  except  sallad  oil  ;  there  being 
water  in  all  other. 


272  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

Fireirons  should  be  kept  wTapt  in  baize,  in  a  dry 
place,  when  not  used. 
To  clean  tin  C  overs ,  and  patent  pewter  Porterpots- 

Get  the  finest  whiting,  which  is  only  sold  in  large 
cakes,  the  small  being  mixed  with  sand,  mix  a  little 
of  it  powdered,  with  the  least  drop  of  sweet  oil, 
and  rub  well,  and  wipe  clean  ;  then  dust  some  dry 
whiting  in  a  muslin  bag  over,  and  rub  bright 
with  dry  leather.  The  last  is  to  prevent  rust, 
which  the  cook  must  be  careful  to  guard  against 
by  wiping  dry,  and  putting  by  the  fire  when  they 
come  from  the  parlour  ;  for  if  but  once  hung  up 
without,  the  steam  will  rust  the  inside. 
To  take  rust  out  of  Steel, 

Cover  the  steel  with  sweet  oil  well  rubbed  on  it, 
and  in  forty  eight  hours  use   unslacked  lime  finely 
powdered,  and  rub  until  all  the  rust  disappears. 
To  clean  stone  Stairs  and  Halls. 

Boil  a  pound  of  pipemakers  clay  with  a  quart  of 
water,   a  quart  of  small   beer,   and  put  in  a  bit  ©f 
stone  blue.     Wash   with   this   mixture,   and  when 
dry,  rub  the  stones  with  flannel  and  a  brush. 
To  clear  Paperhang'wgs. 

First  blow  off  the  dust  with  the  bellows.  Divide 
a  white  loaf  of  two  days  old  into  eight  parts.  Take 
the  crust  into  your  hand,  and  beginning  at  the  top 
of  the  paper,  wipe  it  downwards  in  the  lightest 
manner  with  the  crumb.  Do  not  cross  or  go  up- 
v/ards.  The  dirt  of  the  paper  and  the  crumbs  will 
fall  together.     Observe,  you  must  not  \vipe  above 


DIRECTIONS  FOR  SERVANTS.  27S 

half  a  yard  at  a  stroke,  arid  after  doing  all  the  upper 
part,  go  round  again,  beginning  a  little  above  where 
you  left  off.  If  you  do  not  do  it  extremely  lightly, 
you  will  make  the  dirt  adhere  to  the  paper. 

It  will  look  like  new  if  properly  done. 
To  clean  Paint, 

Never  use  a  cloth,  but  take  off  the  dust  with  a 
little  longhaired  brush,  after  blowing  off  the  loose 
parts  v^rith  the  bellows.  With  care,  paint  will  look 
well  for  a  length  of  time.  When  soiled,  dip  a 
sponge  or  a  bit  of  flannel  into  soda  and  water,  wash 
it  off  quickly,  and  dry  immediately,  or  the  strength 
of  the  soda  will  eat  off  the  colour. 

When  wainscot  requires  scouring,  it  should  be 
done  from  the  top  downwards,  and  the  suds  be 
prevented  from  running  on  the  unclean  part  as 
much  as  possible,  or  marks  will  be  made  which 
will  appear  after  the  whole  be  finished.  One  per- 
son should  dry  with  old  linen  as  fast  as  the  other 
has  scoured  off  the  dirt  and  washed  the  soda  off. 
To  clean  Lookingglasses. 

Remove  the  fly  stains,  and  other  soil,  by  a  damp 
rag  ;  then  polish  with  woollen  cloth  and  powderblue. 
To  preserve  Gilding,  and  clean  it. 

It  is  not  possible  to  prevent  flies  from  staining  the 
gilding  without  covering  it  ;  before  which,  blow  off 
the  light  dust,  and  pass  a  feather  or  clean  brush 
over  it ;  then  with  strips  of  paper  cover  the  frames 
of  your  glasses,  and  do  not  remove  it  till  the  flies 
are  gone. 


274  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

Linen  takes  off  the  gilding,  and  deadens  its 
brightness  ;  it  should  therefore  never  be  used  for 
wiping  it. 

Some  means  should  be  used  to  destroy  the  flies, 
as  they  injure  furniture  of  every  kind,  and  the  paper 
likewise.  Bottles  hung  about  with  sugar  and  vin- 
egar, or  beer,  will  attract  them  ;  or  flywater  put 
into  the  bottom  of  a  saucer. 

To  clean  Plate, 
Boil  an  ounce  of  prepared  hartshorn  powder  in 
a  quart  of  water.  While  on  the  fire,  put  into  it  as 
much  plate  as  the  vessel  will  hold  ;  let  it  boil  a 
little,  then  take  it  out,  drain  it  over  the  saucepan, 
and  dry  it  before  the  fire.  Put  in  more,  and  serve 
the  same,  till  you  have  done.  Then  put  into  the 
water  some  clean  linen  rags  till  all  be  soaked  up. 
When  dry,  they  will  serve  to  clean  the  plate,  and 
are  the  very  best  things  to  clean  the  brass  locks 
and  fingerplates  of  doors.  When  the  plate  is  quite 
dry,  it  must  be  rubbed  bright  with  leather. 
This  is  a  very  nice  mode. 

Note,  In  many  platepowders  there  is  a  mixture 
of  quicksilver,  which  is  very  injurious  ;  and,  among 
other  disadvantages,  it  makes  silver  so  brittle,  that 
from  a  fall  it  vyill  break. 

To  give  a  fine  Colour  to  Mahogany, 

Let  the  tables  be   washed  perfectly   clean   with 

vinegar,   having  first  taken  out  any  ink  stains  there 

may  be  with  spirits  of  salt  ;  but  it  must  be  used 

with  the  greatest  care,    and  only  touch  the  part 


DIRECTIONS  FOR  SERVANTS.  275 

affected,  and  be  instantly  washed  off.  Use  the  fol- 
lowing liquid  :  into  a  pint  of  cold  drav/n  linseed  oil, 
put  four  penny  worth  of  alconetroot,  and  two  pen- 
ny worth  of  rosepink,  in  an  earthen  vessel  ;  let  it 
remain  all  night,  then  stirring  well,  rub  some  of  it 
all  over  the  tables  with  a  linen  rag  ;  when  it  has 
lain  some  time,  rub  it  bright  with  Hnen  cloths. 

Eating  tables  should  be  covered  with  mat,  oilcloth 
or  baize,  to  prevent  staining,  and  be  instantly  rub- 
bed when  the  dishes  are  taken  off,  while  still  warm. 
To  dust  Carpets  and  Floors. 

Sprinkle  tealeaves  on  them,  then  sweep  care- 
fully. The  former  should  not  be  swept  frequent- 
ly with  a  whisk  brush,  as  it  wears  them  fast  ;  but 
oncf  a  week,  and  the  other  times  with  the  leaves 
and  a  hair  brush. 

To  clean  Carpets* 

Take  up  the  carpet,  let  it  be  well  beaten,  then 
laid  down,  and  brushed  on  both  sides  with  a  hand 
brush.  Turn  it  the  right  side  upwards,  and  scour 
it  with  oxgall,  and  soap  and  water,  very  clean,  and 
dry  it  with  linen  cloths. 

To  take  Stains  out  of  Marble. 

Mix  unslacked  lime,  in  finest  powder,  with  the 
.-stronger  soaplye,  pretty  thick  ;  and  instantly,  with 
a  painter's  brush,  lay  it  on  the  whole  of  the  marble. 
In  two  months  time  wash  it  off  perfectly  clean  ; 
then  have  ready  a  fine  thick  lather  of  soft  soap, 
boiled  in  soft  water  ;  dip  a  brush  in  it,  and  scour 
the  marble  with  powder,  not  as  common  cleaning. 

B  B 


276  DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 

This  will,  by  very  good  rubbing,  give  a  beautiful 
polish.     Clear  off  the  soap,  and  finish  with  a  smooth 
hard  brush  till  the  end  be  effected. 
To  dean  Calico  Furniture,    ivhen  taken  down  for  the 
Summer. 

Shake  off  the  loose  dust,  then  lightly  brush  with 
a  small  longhaired  furniture  brush  ;  after  which 
wipe  it  closely  with  clean  flannels,  and  rub  it  with 
dry  bread. 

If  properly  done,  the  curtains  will  look  nearly  as 
well  as  at  first. 

Fold  in  large  parcels,  and  put  carefully  by. 

While  the  furniture  remains  up,  it  should  be 
preserved  from  the  sun  and  air  as  much  as  possible, 
which  injure  delicate  colours  ;  and  the  dust  ma|f  be 
blown  off  with  bellows. 

To  preserve  Furs  and  Woollen  from  Moth, 

Let  the  former  be  occasionally  combed  while  in 
use,  and  the  latter  be  brushed  and  shaken.  When 
not  wanted,  dr)'^  them  first,  let  them  be  cool,  then 
mix  among  them  bitter  apples  from  the  apothe- 
cary's, in  small  muslin  bags,  sewing  them  in  several 
folds  of  linen,  carefully  turned  in  at  the  edgec. 


INDEX. 


ALDER  wine, 

white,  very 
much  like  Frontiniac, 
Ale,  to  brew, 

,  very  fine  Welsh 
to  refine 
Almond  cheesecakes, 
cream, 
puddings, 

, baked, 

*  ,  small, 

Amber  pudding,  a  very 

fine  one. 
Anchovies,  to  keep  them 
when  the  liquor  dries, 
sauce, 
essence  of 
to  make  sprats 
taste  like, 
Apples,  to  prepare  them 
for  puffs, 

dried, 

dumplings,    or 
pudding, 
fool, 

jelly  to  serve  to 
table, 

,  another, 


243  Apple  jelly,  for  preserv- 

ed  apricots,   or   any 

244  sort  of  sweetmeats,  197 
237  pie,  181 
236  pudding,  baked,  145 
239  water,  254 
187  to  scald  codlins,  178 
169               tokeep  codlins  for 

143         several  months,  190 

156  stewed  goldenpip- 

158         pins,  176 

red  in  jelly,  176 

145     Apricots,  in  brandy,  195 

to  dry  in  half,   1 96 
119  green,  to  pre- 

109         serve,  197 

114  to  preserve  in 

jelly,  197 

119  apple  jelly  for 

this  purpose,  197 

177  cheese,  195 

175  pudding,  an  ex- 

cellent one,  155 

152     Arroivrcot  leMyy  261 

173     Asses  milk,  262 

,  artificial,  262 

177  ,  another,  263 

177  ,  another,  263 


278 


INDEX. 


£acon,  excellent  y  70 

the    manner    of 
curing  WiltshirCj  65 

f raise,  158 

Baitiboo,      (English)      to 

pickle,  121 

Barberries^  for  tartlets,       202 
drops,  202 

Barlcywater,  253 

,  common,         254 
Bean  Pudding,  green,  1 56 

Bechamel,  106 

Beef,  stewed  rump  of,         29 
,  stewed  brisket,  29 

,  to  salt  red,  which 
is  extremely  good  to 
eat  fresh  from  the  pic- 
kle, or  to  hang  to  dry,     30 
,  pressed,  31 

,  hunter's,  31 

,  to  dress  the  inside 
of  a  cold  sirloin,  38 

,  fricassee  of  cold 
roast,  38 

,  to  dress  cold  that 
has  not  been  done 
enough,  called  beef 
olives,  39 

,  to  dress,  called 
Sanders,  39 

,  to  dress,  called 
Cecils,  39 

,  to  salt  for  eating 


immediately, 

i'T 

■,e^f,  alamode, 

28 

,  broth. 

250 

,  collared, 

32 

collop. 

33 

hashed, 

40 

heart, 

42 

minced, 

39 

olives, 

39 

palates, 

31 

cakes  for  sidedish 
of  dressed  meat,  35 

potted,  35 

,  another  way,  35 
patties,or  Podovies,  34 
,  Benton  sauce  for 
hot  or  cold  roast,  108 

round  of,  *   40 

,  sauce  Robart  for 
rumps,  107 

,  a  pickle  for,  that 
will  keep  for  years,        69 
,  tea,  250 

Beefsteaks     and      oyster 
sauce,  32 

,  sauce  Robart 

for,  107 

pie,  34 

pudding,  33 

pudding,  baked,     34 

,  Staffordshire,        S3 

,  Italian,  S3 

Beer,  to  refine,  239 

(strong)  to  brew,    237 


INDEX. 


279 


Beer,  (table)  excellent, 

238 

Brewery,  Home,  236  to 

248 

Btnton  sauce,  for  hot  or 

Brsih,  a  quickmade, 

252 

cold  roast  beef, 

108 

,  a  clear  one,  that 

tea  cakes, 

221 

will  keep  long, 

249 

Birds y  a  very  economical 

Others  are  under 

way  of  potting. 

79 

different  names  ;    as 

Bhcuit  cake, 

223 

Chicken     broth,    &c. 

,hard, 

221 

Broivn   bread  pudding. 

148 

,  plain,  and  very 

ice. 

211 

crisp, 

222 

Brcivning,  to  colour  and 

,  of  fruit, 

205 

flavour   made  dishes, 

H8 

Black  caps, 

176 

Bubble  and  Squeak, 

42 

puddings, 

G6 

Bun,   a  good  plain  one. 

227 

another 

,  richer  ones. 

227 

way. 

61 

Burnt  Cream, 

171 

Blancmange,  or  Blamange,  165 

Butter,  to  clarify  for  pot 

■- 

Boardi,  to  give    them  a 

ted    things, 

79 

beautiful  appearance. 

269 

,  to    melt. 

108 

Bociingsy 

183 

,  pudding, 

149 

Boiling,   meat,  observa- 

with meat, 

149 

tions  on,                     20,  21 

,  orange, 

132 

Brandy,  cream. 

170 

Buttermilk, 

234 

pudding. 

156 

,  with  bread. 

Bread  cake,    common. 

218 

or  without. 

263 

pudding,   boiled, 

148 

,  Dr.  Boerhaave's 

,  another 

sweet, 

263 

and  richer, 

149 

pudding, 

157 

puddings,    little. 

147 

Cabbag;,  (red)  to  pickle, 

125 

and     butter      pud- 

, to  stew. 

128 

ding, 

143 

Cakes,                   213  to  230 

sauce. 

112 

,   observations  on 

brown  pudding, 

148 

making    and    baking 

ice. 

211 

them. 

213 

French, 

229 

a  very   fine   one 

216 

Brentford  rolls. 

223 

,  an  excellent  and 

B  B   2 

less   expensive   one, 

216 

280 


INDEX. 


Cake,  a  very  good  com- 
mon   one,  217 
,  a  common  one,     219 
,  little  white,  220 
,  little  short             220 
jflat    that  will 
keep  long  in  the 
house  good,        ^           221 
Many  other  cakes 
are  under  their  differ- 
ent    first    names    ;     as 
Plumb  CdL\it,  Tea  cakes,  &c. 
Cakes  y  colours  for  stain- 
ing, &c.                          204 
,  icing  for,                      212 
Calf  s  feet  hxoth,                 252 
,  another,          253 
,  jelly,                166 
,  another 
sort,                               167 
head,  to  boil,  49 
,  hashed,  50 
,  mock  turtle,           50 
,  a  cheaper  way,             51 

,  forcemeat  as 
,  for  turtle  at  the  Bush, 
Bristol,  51 

,  another  force- 
meat, for  balls  or  pat- 
ties, 51 
,  pie,                    53 
,  fricasseed,  54 
liver,  broiled,               56 
,  roasted,               56 
GaU:o  furniture ^  tO  clean, 


when  taken  down  for 
the  summer,  276 
Camp  vinegar,  113 
Capers,  tO  keep,  119 
Carmel,  cover  for  sweet- 
meats, 207 
Carp,  boiled,  1 2 
,  stewed,  10 
,  an  excellent  sauce 
for,  107 
Carpels,  to  dust,  275 
,  to  clean,  275 
Carrot',  to  stew,  128 
,  pudding,  155 
,  soup,  98 
Casiiron,  to  clean  stoves 
of,  271 
,  another  way,  271 
Caj/tt^,  mushroom,  114 
,  ano- 
ther way  l\4^ 

,  walnut  of  the 

finest  sort,  114 

,  cockle,  115 

Caudle,  255 

,  another,  '256 

,  rice,  356 

,  cold,  256 

,  a  flour,  261 

,rice,  261 
,  to  give  away  to 

poor  families,  268 
Caulifo'wer,  in  white 

sauce,  127 
Caveath, 


INDEX. 


281 


Cecils,  39 

Ceicry y  to  stQW,  127 

Cbeese,  to  pot,  231 

,  to  roast,  to  come 

up  after  dinner,  231 

Cheese  is  also 
imder  different  names ; 
as  Cream  cheese,   Apri- 
cot cheese,  &c. 
Cheesecakes,  184 

,  a  plainer  sort,  1 85 
,  another  way,  185 
Chsesecakes,  l^moUy  185 

,  ano- 
ther, 186 
orange,  186 
,  a  very' 
fine    crust   for    them, 
when  to  be  particular- 
ly nice,  140 
,potatoe,  186 
,  almond,  187 
,  light  paste 
for,                                  140 
Cherries,  in  brandy,            1 96 
,  to  dry, 
with  sugar,  193 
without  sugar,  193 

,  to  dry, 

them  the  best  way,       200 

,jam,  199 

,  pie,  186 

,  (morella)  to 

preserve,  210 

Chickens^  to  pull,  82 


Chicken    broth,  251 
curry,  83 
,  anotlier, 
more  quickly  made,  83 
,  fricassee  of,  80 
panada,  250 
pie,  82 
Chocolate,  to  prepare,  259 
Clary  wine,  244 
Cod,  crimp,  13 
head  and  shoulders,  12 
pie,  II 
ragout,  13 
sounds  boiled,  13 
Cod,  curry  of,  1 3 
Codlins,  to  keep  for  several 
months,  190 
,  to  scald,  178 
tart,  180 
Coffee,  to  make,  259 
cream,  much  ad- 
mired, 172 
milk,  260 
Collops,  mutton,  73 
,  veal,  dressed 
quick,  45 
,  another  way,  45 
,  veal,  46 
of  cold  veal  or 
chicken,  46 
Scotch,  46 
Cornish,  pies,  90 
Cough,  draught  for, 
Crab,  hot, 
Crackniiisy 


258 
8 


28i 


INDEX. 


Crachnels,  223 

Cranberries^  different  ways 
of  dressing,  178 

jelly,  178 

and  rice  jelly,  1 79 

Craxvf.shy  soup,  102 

Cream,  to  scald,  233 

,  imperial,  1 58 

,a  168 

Others     are  under 
the  names  of  the  dif- 
ferent principal  arti- 
cles they  are  made  of; 
as  Almond  cream,  &c. 
Creamy  a  froth  to  sit  On, 
which  looks  and  eats 
well,  163 

,ice,  211 

Cheese^  234 

,  another,  235 

,  another  sort,     235 
,  rush   cheese,     235 
,  another 
way,  236 

Crust,  excellent  short,     140 
,  an- 
other, \  40 

a  very  fine  one  for 
orange  cheese  cakes  cr 
sweetmeats,  when  to  be 
particularly  nice,  140 

,rice  piecrust,     151 
,  raised  crust  for 
custards,  of  fruit,         141 
,  for 


meat  pies,  or  fowls, 
&c.  141 

,  for  venison  pasty  142 
,rice  pasty,  142 

,  See  also  the  arti- 
cle Paste, 
Cucumber Sy  tO  stew,  1 26 

,  an- 
other way,  126 

and  onions 
sliced,  to  pickle,  123 

,  an- 
other way,  123 
,  young,                    123 
Cullisy  or  brown  sauce,     105 
Curds  and  cream,  161 
Curdy  another  way,  1 62 
puddings  or  puffs,  157 
pudding  boiled,       157 
Currants y  to  keep,  189 
dumplings,  or 
pudding,                         152 

and  raspberry 
tart,  181 

jelly,   red    or 

black,  1 94 

,  v/hite,  shrub,  248 

v/a"er  ice,  21 1 

,    wine,  241 

Currv,  rice  boiled  to  eat 

with,  137 

Cusiards.  cheap  and  ex- 
cellent ones,  1<59 
,  richer,  169 
Others  are   under 


INDEX. 


2B3 


the  names  of  the 
different  principal  ar- 
ticles they  are  made 
of  ;  as  Lemon  cus- 
tards, &c. 

,  a  froth  to  set 

on,   which    looks 

and  eats  well,  163 

pudding,  153 

Cutlets^  Maintenon,  44 

,  another  way,  44 

,  another  way,  45 

Cider y  to  refine,  239 

D. 
Dairy,  232  to  236 

Damsons  to  keep  for 

winter  pies,  1 90 

another  way,         1 90 

another,  191 

cheese,  204 

dumplings,    or 

pudding,  152 

Davenport  fowls,  81 

Devonshire 'yxvikj&t^  162 

Drinky  a  very  agreeable 

one  for  the  sick,  254 

a  refreshing  one 

in  a  fever,  256 

another,  256 

another,  257 

,  a  most  pleasant    257 

,  draught    for    a 

cough,  258 

Duck,  to  boil,  So 

to  roast,  84 


Duel,  sauce  for,  107 

pie,  85 

Dutch  pudding,  or  Sous- 

ter,  146 

rice  pudding,  146 

E. 

Eel,  boiled,  2 

broth,                    3,  252 

collared,  3 

fried,  2 

pie,  2 

spitchcock,  2 

£ggs,  buttered,  110 

to  poach,  232 

sauce,  110 

wine,  258 

little,  for  pies  or 

turtles,  112 

Essence,  of  anchovies  114 

R 
Fish,  1  to  20 

observations     on 

dressing,  1 7 

jelly  to  cover  cold 

ones,  105 

sauce  without  but- 
ter, 109 
sauce  alacraster,  112 
a  very  fine 
one,  113 
Floating  island,  163 
another 
way,  163 
i^wrc/o/Z^j,  directions  res- 
pecting them,  269 


284 


INDEX. 


Floorcloths^  to  clean  them,  270 

Floors,  to  dust,  275 

Flummery  f  173 

Dutch,  166 

rice,  161 

Forcemeat     for     patties, 

balls,  or  stuffing,  134 

Other  force- 
meat   is    under    the 
name  of  dishes. 
Fo-wls,  boiled,  80 

boiled  with  rice,     80 
observations    on 
roasting  them,         22 
roasted,  80 

Davenport,  81 

sauce  for  cold,       108 
vingaret  for  cold,  108 
sauce  for  wild,      106 
,  another,  107 
g,  very  good  sauce 
to   hide  the   bad 
colour  of  110 

forcemeat  for  pies 
of  any  kind,  82 

fricassee  of  chick- 
ens, 80 

another  white 
sauce,  more  easily 
made,  81 

collops  of  cold 
chicken,  46 

to     pot    chicken 

with  ham,  47 

Fraise^  183 


French  beans,  to  preserve 
to  eat  in  the  winter,     131 
bread,  229 

rolls,  228 

Fricandeauy  55y  128 

Fritters^  183 

Spanish,  1 84 

potatoe,  184 

Froth,  to  set  on  cream, 
custard,  or  trifle, 
which  looks  and  eats 
well,  163 

Fruits  to  keep,  187  to  213 
Furs,  to  preserve  from 
moth,  276 

G. 
George  pudding,  151 

German  1 46 

Giblet  pye,  86 

soup,  94 

stewed,  87 

Gilding,  to  preserve  and 

clean,  273 

Ginger  drops,  a  good  sto- 
machic, 203 
wine,  excellent,     242 
another,     243 
Gingerbread,  226 
another  sort,     226 
to  make  good 
without    but- 
ter,                    226 
Gloucester  jelly,                    262 
Goldenpippins,  stewed,         176 
Goose,  to  roast,  85 


INDEX. 


285 


Goose,  green,  pie, 
Gooseberries,  to  preserve, 
another  way, 
another, 
fool, 
hops, 

jam,  for  tarts, 
ano- 
ther, 

wliite, 
pudding,  bak- 
ed, 

vine- 
gar. 
Grapes,  to   preserve  in 

brandy, 
Grates,  to  clean  the  backs 

of, 
Gravy,  clear, 

to  draw  that  will 
keep  a  week, 
a  rich  one, 
veal, 
soup, 
Green,    to   stain   jellies, 

ices,  or  cakes 
Grouse, 

to  pot  them, 
H. 
Haddock, 

stuffing  for. 
Hams,  to  cure, 

another 

another 


%Q         way,  63 

187  Hams,    to   cure,  another 

188  way,     that    gives    a 

189  higher  flavour,  63 
172                                 a  meth- 
206          od    of  giving  a  still 

201  higher  flavour,  64 

a  pickle  for  them 

202  that  will  keep  for  years,  69 
202                           to  dress,  64 

Hares,  22 
155                    to  prepare  and 

dress,  91 

117               to  jug  an  old  one,  92 

broiled  and  hash- 

206         ed,  93 

pie,  93 

271                potted,  93 

103  soup,                  93,  100 
Harrico,  7 1 

104  Harslet,  68 
104  Hartshorn  jelly,  168 
106      Heart,  beef,  42 

97     Hearths,  (the  inner)  to 

cleaii,  271 

204                     another  way,  271 

84     Herrhtgs,  baked,  8 

84                       broiled,  9 

fried,         •  9 

14                       to  smoke,  8 

16                      (red)  to  dress,  8 

62     Hessian  soup  and  ragout,  36 

the  ragout,  36 

62     Hog's  cheeks,  to  drj',  64 

head,  to  make  ex- 


286 


INDEX. 


K 


cellent  meat  of, 

57 

Kidney,  veal. 

lard, 

68 

pudding, 

puddings,  white, 

68 

Kitchen  pepper. 

Hotchpotch,  an  excellent 

L 

one, 

76 

Lamb,  fore  quarter, 

another, 

76 

fry, 

tJunters  beef, 

31 

head  and  hinge. 

pudding, 

153 

leg  and  loin, 

I. 

steaks 

Icing,  for  tarts, 

212 

steaks    and    cu- 

for cakes. 

212 

cumbers, 

lee  waters, 

211 

Lamprey,  tO  Stew,  as  at 

currant  or 

Worcester, 

raspberry, 

211 

Lard, 

brown  bread, 

211 

Leek  soup,  Scotch, 

to  make  the. 

212 

Lemons,  to  keep  for  pud- 

creams, 

211 

dings,  &c. 

colours  for  stain- 

to preserve  in 

ing  them. 

204 

JeUy. 

Imperial, 

242 

cheesecakes, 

cream, 

168 

an- 

India pickle. 

120 

other 

Irons,  to  preserve  them 

cream,     yellow 

from  rust. 

271 

without  cream, 

J. 

white  ditto, 

Jelly  to  cover  cold  fish. 

105 

custards. 

Other    'Jellies  are  under 

drops. 

the  names  of  the  dif- 

honeycomb, 

ferent  principal  arti- 

juice, to  keep, 

cles  they  are  made  of; 

pickle. 

as  Calf  s  feet  jelly,  &c. 

Lemon,  pudding,  an  ex- 

colours   for  stain- 

cellent one. 

ing,  &c. 

204 

sauce, 

Junket^  Devonshire, 

162 

syrup, 
water, 

INDEX. 


287 


I»emoTiade,  255 

to  be  made  a 
day  before  wanted,      240 
another  way,  240 
Zent  potatoes,  161 

Ligf>t,  or  German  pud- 
dings, 146 
Liver  sauce,  110 
Lobsters i  buttered,  7 
curry  of  them,       7 
patties,                135 
pie,  7 
to  pot  them,        6 
another 
way,  as  at  Wood's  hotel,  6 
sallad,                    129 
sauce,                    109 
another 
way,                              109 

stewed,  as  a  ve- 
ry high  reHsh,  7 
Lookingglasses,  to   clean,  273 

M. 
Macaroons,  225 

Mackarel,  boiled,  3 

broiled,  3 

collared,  3 

potted,  3 

pickled,  3 

pickled,  called 
caveach,  4 

Afagnum  bonum  plums,       205 
Mahogany,  to  give  a  fine 

colour  to,  274 

Mal^is,  17 

C.  0 


Marble,  to  take  Stains  out 

of,  275 

Marmalade  f  apple,  178 

orange,  1 99 

quince,  200 

transparent,   208 

Marroivbones,  38 

Mwwskinsy  to   cure,  for 

rennet,  234 

Meats,  20  to  77 

observations  on 
dressing,  20 

(roast)  rice  boil- 
ed to  eat  with,  137 
iVfe/o«  mangoes,  122 
ikTZ/yf/orrii^f,  for  the  sick,  255 
French,  255 
Milhpiinch,  247 
Millet  pudding,  1 54 
Alincepie,                                  135 

without  meat,   136 
lemon,  1 36 
^g'gy      137 
patties 
resembling,  1 35 

Mockturtle,  50 

a  cheaper  way,  51 
forcemeat  as  for 
turtle   at   the   Bush, 
Bristol,  51 

another  force- 
meat for  balls  or  pat- 
ties, 51 
another,               52 
aneth^er»               52 


288 


INDEX. 


Moor  game,  to  pot,  84 
hen  to  roast,  84 
Morels  cherries,  to  pre- 
serve, 210 
MuJI;!s,  227 
Mulled  wine  262 
Mushrooms,  to  dry i  116 
an  excellent 
way  to  pickle,  to  pre- 
serve the  flavour,  125 
to  stew,  128 
powder,  116 
Mustard^  to  make,  119 
another  way 
for  immediate  use,  1  f  9 
Mutton,  to  choose,  22 
breast,  75 
broth,  250 
Scotch,  101 
coUops,  73 
cutlets    in    the 
Portuguese  way,  77 
ham,  76' 
harrico,  71 
haunch,  70 
,  an  excellent 
hotch  potch,  76 
another,  76 
legs,  7 1 
,  rolled  loia,  75 
necks,  71 
pie,  72 
and  p^tatoe  pie,  72 
puddingi,.,  72 


»ausatge|i 


73 


Mutton,  shoulder,  boiled 
with  oysters,  74 

steaks,  73 

steaks    of,    or 
lamb  and  cucumbers,     76 
N. 
Nasiurtions,  tO  pickle  for 

capers,  125 

Nezv  college  puddings,    .    147 
Norfolk  punch,  247 

O. 

Otz/zwifa/ pudding,  145 

Omlet,  138 

Onions,  pickled,  122 

,  to  roast,  127 

sauce,  111 

,  sliced 

with  cucumbers,  123 

,  another  way,         123 

soup,  99 

,  to  stew,  126 

Orangeade,  253 

Orange  butter,  1 32 

cakes,  209 

cheesecakes,  186 

chips,  209 

fool,  1 72 

jelly,  168 

juice,  buttered,      1*^4 

pudding,  144 

another,  144 

another,  144 

syrup,  247 

tart,  179 

Oranges^  to  butter,  1 74 


INDEX. 


289 


Oranges,  to  keep,  for 

Pancakes,  common, 

182 

pmddings,  &c. 

187 

fine  ones,  fried 

,  to    prepare,  to 

without  butter  or  lard, 

.183 

put  into  puddings, 

19S 

Irish, 

182 

preserved,    to 

of  rice. 

182 

fill  ;  a  corner  dish. 

179 

Paperhangings,  tO  clean, 

272 

to  preserve  in 

Parsley  pie, 

89 

JeUy, 

208 

Parsnips,  to  mash, 

130 

Orgeat, 

255 

Partridges,  to  roast. 

79 

to  make, 

239 

,  potted. 

79 

,  another  way, 

239 

a    very    eco- 

Oxcheek stewed,  plain, 

37 

nomical  way. 

79 

to  dress  it  ano- 

, sauce  for 

ther  way, 

37 

them  cold. 

108 

rump  soup. 

102 

Pastes,   light,   for  tarts 

Oxford  dumplings, 

148 

and  cheesecakes. 

140 

Oysters,  fried,  to  garnish 

,  potatoe, 

143 

boUed  fish, 

15 

See  also  the  arti- 

, to  pickle. 

15 

cle  Crust. 

another  way 

,  15 

Pastrv,                 134  to 

143 

,  scalloped, 

14 

Pasty,  venison,               2i 

;,  26 

,  to  stew. 

14 

,  an  imi- 

patties, or  small 

tation  of. 

27 

pie, 

15 

,  of  beef  or  mutton 

,  patties, 

134 

to  eat  as  v/eli  as  ven- 

_ 

,  sauce, 

111 

ison. 

24 

,  sauce     to    beef 

Patties,  sweet, 

iS5 

steaks, 

32 

,  resembling 

P. 

mincepies. 

335 

Paint,  to  clean, 

273 

,  fried, 

134 

Panada,   made    in    five 

Others  are  under 

minutes, 

253 

the  names  of  the  arti- 

another, 

253 

cles  they  are  made  of. 

another, 

253 

,  forcemeat  for. 

1S4 

chicken, 

250 

Peaches  in  brandy. 

195 

290 


INDEX. 


Pears,  stewed, 

175 

,  baked, 

175 

,  dried, 

175 

Peas  (old)  soup, 

95 

,  to  stew, 

129 

(green,)  to  keep, 

30 

another 

way,  as  practised  in 

the  Emperor  of  Rus- 

sia's kitchen, 

131 

,  to  stew. 

126 

,  soup, 

96 

P^//^r,kitchen, 

118 

Peppermint  droJJS, 

203 

Perch  and  tench. 

3 

Pettitoesy 

59 

Peivter  (patent)  porter- 

pots,  to  clean. 

272 

Pheasants,  tO  roast, 

79 

Pickles,               110  to  125 

,  that  will  keep 

for  years,  for   hams. 

tongues,  or  beef, 

69 

,are  under  the 

names  of  the  articles 

pickled. 

Pies,                         89  to  91 

,    are    under    the 

names  of  the  principal 

articles  they  are  made 

of ;  as  Apple  pie,  &c. 

Pigs  cheek  for  boiling, 

59 

collared  head. 

60 

feet  and  ears,  dif- 

ferent ways  of  dressing,  61 

Pig^s  fricassee,  01 

harslet,  68 

jelly  of  feet  and  ears,  61 

Pigeons  broiled,  89 

in  jelly,  88 

to  pickle,  87 

pie  89 

potted,  88 

roast,  89 

stewed,  87 

,  another  way,  87 

Pike,  baked,  4 

,  stuffing  for,  16 

Pippin  pudding,  158 

tarts,  177 

,  stewed  golden,  176 

Plaice,  an  excellent  way  of 

dressing  a  large  one,  1 1 

Plate,  to  clean,  274 

Plumcake,  214 

another,  215 

very    good 

common  ones,  220 

little   ones, 

to  keep  long,  221 

Plumpudding,  common,  153 

Podovies,  or  beef  patties,  34 
Poor   persons,   hints 
respecting    their 

RELIEF,  264  to  268 

Pork,  to  roast  a  leg,  60 

to  boil  a  leg,  61 

to  pickle,  65 

to  salt  for  eating 

immediately  27 


INDEX. 


;9i 


Pori  jelly.    Dr.   Rat- 
clyfF's  restorative,  250 
steaks,  62 
loins    and    necks, 
roast,  69 
rolled  neck,  69 
Por/^i'/V  head,  roasted,  59 
Portable  soup,  a  very  use- 
ful thing,  103 
Potatoes,  to  boil,  1 29 
to  broil,  130 
to  roast,  1 30 
to  fry,  130 
to  mash,  1 30 
cheesecakes  186 
Lent,  161 
pastry,  143 
pasty,  89 
pudding    vnth 
meat,  152 

pudding,  an  ex- 
cellent plain  one,  154 
rolls,  229 
Potting  birds, a  very  eco- 
nomical way  of,  79 

to  clarify   butter 

for  potted  things,  79 
Poultry,                  71  to  90 

Pound  cake,  good ,  218 

Pra-ivns,  curry  of,  7 

soup,  102 

Prune  tdJCt,  179 
Puddings,              142  to  160 
observations 

on  making  them,  160 
c  c2 


Pudding,  a  quick 
made  one,  159 

in  haste,  147 
a  cheap  and 
not  troublesome  one, 
to  give  away  to  poor 
sick  or  young  families,  265 

,  Others  are 
under  the  names  of  the 
principal  articles  they 
are  made  of,  or  their 
first  names  ;  as  Bread 
pudding.  Light  pud- 
ding, &c. 
Puff  paste,  rich,  1S9 

,  less  rich,         1 30 
German,  another, 
way,  139 

,  to  prepare 
apples  for  J  77 

,of  any  sorts 

of  fruit,  ISl 

,  excellent 

light  ones,       158 

,  curd,  157 

Punch,  milk,  247 

Norfolk,  247 

Q- 

Queen  cakes,  219 

,  another  way,  219 

Qukkmade  pudding,  159 

R. 

Rabbits,  9.1 

,  various  ways,  93 
.  to  make  them 


29'J 


INDEX. 


taste  much  like  a  hare,  94 
Rabbitsy    potted,  94 

(roastj  a  very- 
good  sauce  for  them,  110 
Raised  crust  for  custards 
or  fruit,  141 

,  for  meat  pies, 
or  fowls,  &c.  141 

pies,  to  prepare 
meat  or  fowls  for  them,  91 
Raisinzviney  with  cider,     245 
,  without  ci- 
der, 246 
RamaiinSf  138 
Raspberry  brandy,               246 
cakes,                  1 95 
cream,  173 
jam,  194 
,  another 
way,  194 

jelly,  for  ices 
or  creams,  195 

vinegar,  240 

vinegarwater,     254 
water  ice,  211 

wine,  241 

,  another 
way,  241 

and  currant 
tart,  181 

Ratafia,  246 

Red,  a  beautiful  one,  to 
stain  jellies,  ices,  or 
cakes,  204 

herrings,  to  (Jress,    § 


Rennet,  to  cure  maw- 

skins,  for  234 

Restorative,  a  great  one,  248 
another,  248 

another,  249 

another  most 
pleasant  draught,       249 
Rhubarb  tart,  180 

Rice,  savory,  137 

boiled  to  eat  with 
curry  or  roast  meat,  137 
buttered,  137 

cake,  224 

,  another,  224 

caudle,  261 

caudle,  for  the  sick,  26 1 
flummery,  161 

milk,  171 

,  ground  rice  miik,     '  260 
piecrust,  151 

pasty  crust,  142 

pudding,  baked,  140 

another, 
for  the  family,  150 

Dutch,  146 

with  fruit,         140 
,  plain,  140 

,  rich,  154 

small,  149 

ground,  159 

Roasting  meat,  observa- 
tions on,  22 
fowls,                   22 
hares  and  rab- 
bits, 22 


INDEX. 


293 


Holls,  excellent  ones,        228 

,  Brentford,  228 

,  French,  228 

,  potatoe,  229 

Rusks,  222 

Russianseed  pudding,  1^9 

S. 

Sack  cream,  163 

Saffron  cakes,  228 

Sago,  to  prepare,  S,60 

to  prepare  to  give 

away  to  poor  families,  268 

milk,  171,  260 

pudding,  143 

Ballad,  Frencli,  129 

,  lobster,  1 29 

Salmon,  to  boll,  4 

,  no  vinegar  to  be 

boiled  with  it,  18 

,  to  pickle,  4 

,  to  broil,  5 

,  to  pot,  5 

,  to  dry,  5 

Sialoop,  264 

Sanders,  S  9 

Sauces,  105  to  112 

,  robart,  for  rumps 

or  steaks,  107 

a  very  good  sauce 
especially  to  hide  the 
bad  colour  of  fowls,  110 

Other  sauces  are 

xmder   the   names  of 

,     different  dishes,  or  of 

the  principal  article<j 


the  sauces  are  made 
of. 
Sausages,  mutton,  73 
,  pork,  65 
jSpadbury's  Ox- 
ford, '66 
,  veal,  57 
,  an  excellent 
sausage  to  eat  cold,  66 
Scotch  Collops  46 
Seed  Cake,  3i  chea.^  one,  217 
,  another,  218 
Servants,  useful  di- 
rections   TO    GIVE 
TO   THEM,           269  to  276 
Shalot  vinegar,  114 
Shank  jelly,  251 
5A('//<7r^  pudding,  156 
Shrerusbury  cakes,  219 
Shrimp  pie,  excellent  90 
sauce,  189 
Shrub,  white  currant,  248 
Sick  persons,  cook- 


ERY  FOR, 

24 

8  t( 

3  26J 

Skate, 

17 

crimp. 

17 

Smelts,  to  fry. 

12 

Snoiu  balls, 

152 

cream, 

170 

Soals,  boiled, 

9 

fried. 

9 

stev/ed, 

IC 

in  the  Portuguese 

way. 

10 

stufnng 

for 

eor 

U5 

baked, 

10 

294 


INDEX. 


Soal,  pie,    another  sort 

of  stuffing,  1 1 

Sorrely  to  stew,  for  fri- 
candeau  and  roast 
meat,  128 

sauce,  55 

Soups,  94  to  103 

alasap,  102 

5  a  rich  white  one,  97 
,  a  plainer  white 
one,  98 

,   an  excellent 
soup,  98 

,  a  baked  one,  to 
to  give  away  to  poor 
families,  265 

,  for  the  weakly, 
for  the  same  purpose,  268 

,  Other  soups  are 
under    the   names    of 
the  principal    articles 
they  are  made  of. 
Souster,  1 46 

Spadbj4rys  Oxford  sausa- 
ges, 6G 
Spinach,  to  stew,                 1 27 
French  way,        127 
soup,                    100 
Sprats,  16 
baked,  8 
to  make  them 
taste  like  anchovies,     119 
Spungecake,                            224 
another  with- 
out butter,                     224 


Steak  pudding,  152 

Steel,  to  take  rust  out  of,  272 
Stews,  126  to  129 

Stone  stairs  and  halls,  to 

clean,  272 

Stoves,  to  take  the  black 
off  the  bright  bars  in  a 
few  minutes,  271 

to  clean  the  back 

of  the  grate,  the  inner 

hearth,  and  the  front 

of  cast  iron  stoves,      271 

another  way,       271 

Straivberries,   to  preserve 

them  whole,  198 

Stuffing  for  pike,  had- 
dock, &c.  16 
for  soals  baked 
another  sort,     11 
Stuffing,  forcemeat  for,     134 
Sturgeon i  to  dress  fresh,       16 
an  excellent  imi- 
tation of  sturgeon,         19 
Sucking  pig,  to  scald,         57 
to  roast,                58 
Suet,  to  preserve  it  a 

twelve  month,  40 

pudding,  1 52 

dumphngs,  152 

Suffolk  dxmipVm^^  159 

Sugar,  to  clarify,  192 

Supper,  small  dishes  for 

132,  133 
,  a  pretty  sweet 
supper  dish  J  170 


INDEX. 


293 


SWKET  DISHES,      160  tO  187 

Siueetbreadsy  56 

ragout,  56 

Szveeimeats,  observations 

on,  191 

crust  for  them,  when 

to  be  particularly  nice,  140 

,  a  carmel  cover 
for  sweetmeats,  207 

,  excellent 
sweetmeats  for  tarts, 
when  fruit  is  plentiful  193 
SylLiidy  London,  162 

,  StafFordshire,     162 
,  a  very  fine  So- 
mersetshire one,  162 

,  everlasting  or 
solid,  164 

T. 
Taile  Beer,  excellent,  to 

brew,  238 

Tansey,  181 

Tapioca  jelly,  260 

Tarts,  icing  for  them,  212 
Tarts  are  under 
'the  names  of  the  prin- 
cipal articles  they  are 
made  of  ;  as  Codl'm 
tarts,  &c. 
Teacakes,  220 

,  Benton,  221 

,  another    sort, 
as  biscuit,  221 

,  another    sort,  221 
Teal,  to  roast,  84 


Tench, 

3 

broth. 

252 

Thornhaci, 

17 

Tin  comers,  to  clean. 

272 

Toast  and  •water,  for  the 

sick. 

254 

Tongues,    to   pickle  for 

boiling, 

41 

another  way. 

42 

,  a   pickle  for 

them,  that  will  keep 

for  years. 

69 

,  an     excellent 

mode  of  doing  them 

to  eat    cold. 

43 

,  stewed. 

43 

,  and  udder   to 

roast, 

41 

TnJie,SLn  excellent  one. 

171 

,  a  froth  to  set  on. 

which  looks  and  eats 

well. 

163 

Tripe, 

42 

Ttmbridge  cakes. 

225 

Turbot,  to  boil. 

1 

pie, 

11 

Turkey,  to  boil. 

77 

an  excel- 

lent sauce  for  it  boiled. 

107 

to  roast. 

78 

pulled. 

78 

patties. 

79 

Turnip  pie. 

90 

soup, 

95 

296 


INDEX. 


Turtles^  little    eggs    for 

them,  112 
U. 
UJder    and  tongue,   to 

roast,  41 

V. 

Feal,  breast  of  48 

rolled  breast,  48 

broth,  250 

very  nourishing,  249 

collops,  46 

collops  of  cold,  46 

fricandeau,  55 

gravy,  104 

knuckle,  43 

leg,  43 

neck,  47 

olives,  55 

patties,  54 

potted,  <7^  bottom^  47 

to  pot,  with  ham,  47 

sausages,  57 

shoulder,  49 

Fe^etables,                130  to  132 

,  to  boil  them 

green,  132 

soup,  99 

,  another,  99 

yenisofjy  to  keep,  23 

,  to  dress,  23 

hashed,  27 

haunch,  neck,  &c.  25 

,  stewed  shoulder,  25 

,  to  prepare  for 

pasty,  25 


Venison  pasty,  26 

,  crust  for,  142 
,an  imitation  of 
venison  pasty,  27 

to  make  a  pasty 
of  beef  or  mutton  to 
eat  as  well  as  venison,     24 
Ferdery  or  milk  punch,     247 
Vinegar i  camp,  113 

gooseberry,         117 
raspberry,  240 

shalot,  114 

sugar,  117 

wine,  117 

Vingaret,  for  cold  fowl,  or 
meat,  108 

W. 

PTafers,  225 

IValnutsy  to  pickle^  124 

Water  cakes,  228 

fVbey,  257 

white  wine  for  the 
sick,  257 

vinegar  and  lemon,  257 
White^   to   stain  jellies, 
ices,  or  cakes,  204 

,  hog's  puddings,      68 
sauce,  106 

Widgeoti^  to  roast,  84 

IVine,  to  refine,  239 

roll,  170 

,  mulled,  262 

a  rich  and  pleasant,  245 
Several   sorts  of 
made  wine  are  under  , 


INDEX.  297 

the  different  names  ;  Teasf,  or  Suffolk  dump- 
as  C«rra«^  wine,  &c.  lings,  159 
Y.  Telio-w,  to  stain  jellies, 
Teait,  to  make,                  230  ices  or  cakes,  204 
another  way,  230  Yorkshire  cake,  229 
,  to  preserve,              230  pudding,  158 


GREENOUGH  AND   STEBBINS,  PRINTERS. 


3i  ■ 


^i'T^cy 


-^^Ptyt^ 


^y€yy^-z/i 


<(p7'C^€.^y. 


^i^^^A?e?t^^O^ 


-2 


7/ 


(5C 


C^'9'i.^y 


-^ 


BOSTON  PUBLIC  LIBRARY 


3  9999  05987  758  7 


:.!:!:'f';i;M:;-. 


