ONE THOUSAND 


ONE 


EGIPES 


(BOOKING  &  4T°USEKEEPING 
\*^<~>  \s> 


J 


SAN   FRANCISCO  : 

PUBLISHED  BY  BUTTON  &  PARTRIDGE,   STATIONERS, 
212-214  CALIFORNIA  STREET. 


ONE  THOUSAND 


ONE 


TT/^rTT"¥T~TCr 

EGIPES 


A.  13  OUT* 


OORIflG 


SAN  FRANCISCO  : 

PUBLISHED  P3Y  BUTTON  &  PARTRIDGE,  STATIONERS, 
212-214  CALIFORNIA  STREET. 


AGRICULTURE 


TO   THE 


Fathers  and  Mothers  of  San  Francisco 


WHO   LOVE   THEIR   CHILDREN, 


THIS  BOOK  IS  RESPECTFULLY  DEDICATED. 


AGRICULTURE 
GIFT 


£93 


of  the      usi  ness. 


{As  Compiled  from  Data  of  Record  by  the  Undersigned^) 

Nothing  was  further  from  Mr.  Ewell's  thoughts  than  going 
into  the  milk  business  when,  many  years  ago,  he  loaned  a  rela- 
tive and  friend  some  money  to  engage  in  the  business.  Their 
subsequent  failure  forced  him  to  take  the  business  to  secure 
himself.  Becoming  interested  after  a  little  experience,  Mr. 
Ewell  soon  found  out,  what  few  people  knew,  viz.  :  That  but  a 
small  proportion  of  the  milk  sold  in  this  city  is  absolutely 
pure,  and  the  idea  occurred  to  him  that  a  large  and  profitable 
business  might  be  built  up  by  furnishing  such  an  article.  Not 
knowing  the  meaning  of  the  word  fail,  he  commenced  experi- 
menting. Starting  with  the  idea  that  young,  healthy  cows, 
with  plenty  of  good,  wholesome  food,  fresh  air,  pure  water, 
.good  pasture  and  proper  treatment,  would  produce  the  best 
milk,  and  having  all  these  requisites  to  start  with,  at  his  800- 
acre  ranch,  seven  miles  from  the  city,  on  the  San  Bruno  road, 
Mr.  Ewell  for  years  experimented  with  all  kinds  of  feed  (for 
be  it  known  that  good  pasture  alone  does  not  produce  the  rich- 
est milk,  as  most  every  one  thinks),  both  ground  and  dry,  his 
experience  teaching  him  finally  that  cooked  food  gave  better 
results  than  dry,  and  that  corn,  wheat,  Egyptian  corn,  bran, 
peas,  beans,  broomcorn  seed  and  middlings,  in  their  seasons,  in 
various  combinations,  cooked  to  the  consistency  of  mush,  with 
plenty  of  squash  when  in  season,  cut  fine  and  fed  green,  giving  a 
•cow  all  she  can  eat  twice  a  day,  with  plenty  of  good  Bur  clover 
hay  for  a  change,  is  the  best.  This  liberal  feeding,  with  good 
pasture,  has  enabled  Mr.  Ewell  to  produce  a  milk  richer  and 
superior  to  the  production  of  any  other  dairy,  as  the  analysis 
of  two  of  the  most  prominent  analytical  chemists  of  this  city 
(which  will  be  given  hereafter)  will  sufficiently  demonstrate, 
their  samples  being  taken  at  their  own  volition,  at  widely 
different  dates. 

Having  satisfied  himself  as  to  the  quality  of  his  milk,  Mr. 
Ewell  took  for  his  motto  : 

'  '  The  Purest  and  Best  in  the  World,  '  ' 

And  then  turned  his  attention  to  its  delivery  to  consumers, 
and  the  best  means  of  getting  it  to  them  as  pure  and  fresh  as 
when  it  leaves  the  cow,  for  it  must  be  admitted  that  the  old 
system  of  delivering  milk  has  disadvantages  that  should  have 
condemned  it  long  ago,  for  its  lack  of  cleanliness  and  its  oppor- 
tunities for  contamination,  and  Mr.  Ewell  firmly  believes  that, 
with  all  his  care  and  trouble,  and  efforts  to  produce  the  best  of 
milk,  his  business  would  have  been  a  failure  had  he  adhered 
to  the  old  system  of  delivery. 

Bottling  milk  warm  from  the  cow  is  an  original  idea  of  Mr. 
Ewell,  and  to  its  adoption,  two  years  ago,  Mr.  Ewell  attributes 

Pacific  Bank,  Capital  an«l  Surplus,  SI.7OO.OOO.OO. 

F  .     172 


the  wonderful  success  of  his  business,  it  having  increased  from. 
500  quart- customers  a  day,  to  over  4500,  and  there  seems  to  be 
hardly  any  limit  to  its  possible  extension,  so  popular  is  it  with 
all  who  have  tried  it,  together  with  the  exceeding  richness  of 
the  milk.  

AN  INCORPORATED  COMPANY. 

About  the  time  of  introducing  this  system  of  delivering 
milk,  Mr.  Ewell,  in  order  to  get  the  most  faithful  and  devoted 
service  from  his  large  number  of  employes,  incorporated  his 
business,  letting  all  of  them,  who  desired,  have  stock,  at  a 
mere  nominal  rate,  at  which  price  he  will  either  buy  or  sell  to 
them,  at  any  time,  thus  encouraging  his  men  to  save  their 
wages,  and  at  the  same  time  make  one  per  cent,  per  month  on 
their  savings.  This  system  has  worked  so  well  that  most  all  of 
his  employes  are  now  interested  in  the  business.  The  company 
is  known  as  the  K well's  X.  L,.  Dairy  Bottled  Milk  Company, 
and  while  paying  one  per  cent,  per  month  dividends,  as  before 
stated,  since  its  incorporation,  has  accumulated  a  large  surplus 
fund  of  over  $5000,  a  most  wonderful  showing  in  so  short  a 
time.  The  headquarters  in  this  city  are  at  the  northwest  corner 
of  Folsom  and  Twenty-first  streets,  where  also  are  located  their 
large  stables  for  the  fifty  horses  and  delivery  wagons,  and  where 
are  accommodations  for  as  many  of  the  men  to  sleep,  as  may 
desire. — C.  P.  JONKS. 

WM.  T.  WENZELL  &  CO., 

ANALYTICAL,  CONSULTING  AND  MANUFACTURING  CHEMISTS. 
Careful  Analysis,  Qualitative  and  Quantitative,  Made  of  Ores,  Metals,  Oils,. 

Waters,  Foods,  Medicines,  Poisons,  Etc. 
OFFICE  AND  LABORATORY      ....      No.  153  GROVE  STREET. 

SAN  FRANCISCO,  CAL.,  Oct.  23d,  1889. 
MESSRS.  EWELL  &  Co.,  SAN  FRANCISCO  : 

Gentlemen — I  have  made  a  careful  chemical  analysis  of  your  milk,  and  have 
visited  your  dairy  in  San  Mateo  county.  I  have  also  investigated  your 
methods  for  supplying  fresh  and  pure  milk  to  your  customers,  and  can  affirm 
that  I  commend  your  idea  of  bottling  your  milk  immediately  after  its  removal 
from  the  cows,  and  then  put  into  bottles,  thoroughly  cleansed  with  boiling 
water,  in  order  to  secure  the  destruction  of  organic  germs.  I  find  that  your 
milk,  at  ordinary  temperature  and  atmospheric  conditions,  still  retains  its, 
amphisteric  reaction  on  litmus  paper  for  fully  36  hours,  showing  the  value  of 
your  method  in  securing  and  retaining  the  characters  of  unchanged  and  fresh, 
milk  during  this  period. 

I  would  further  state  that  I  have  used  your  bottled  milk  in  my  family  during 
the  past  two  years  with  perfect  satisfaction . 

The  following  is  the  result  of  my  analysis  of  an  average  sample,  which 
proves  that  it  is  fully  up  to  the  standard  of  a  pure  article  : 

Butter  Fat .    4.19 

Casein % 3 . 98 

Sugar  of  Milk 3.81 

Salts  (chiefly  Phosphates) . .  65 

Albumen 77 

Total  solids 13 . 40 

Water '. .86^60 

Ptespectfully  submitted,  100  00 

W.  T.  WENZELL. 

Pacific  Bank  Letters  of  Credit  available  tHe  world  over 


milk. 


YOUNG  AND  OLD— IN  HEALTH  AND  IN  SICKNESS— IT  MAKES 
TEETH,  BONE,  MUSCLES  AND  BRAINS. 


Milk  has  been,  since  the  dawn  of  Pastoral  life,  one  of  the 
chief  mainstays  of  mankind,  in  health  and  in  sickness.  Two 
substances  in  daily  use  contain,  each  of  them,  the  elements 
necessary  to  support  life.  The  first  is  milk,  which  consists 
of  carbonaceous,  nitrogenous  and  phosphatic  elements  in  a 
watery  menstruum;  the  second  is  wheat,  provided  that  the 
flour  used  is  Graham,  or  unbolted. 

Strange  to  say,  however,  they  are,  of  all  food  stuffs,  the 
most  reduced  in  nutritive  quality.  The  milk — by  watering, 
skimming,  and  the  substitution  of  that  of  sickly  or  ill-fed 
cows.  The  wheat,  by  the  process  of  manufacturing  fine  white 
flour,  whereby  it  is  deprived  of  almost  all  nitrogenous  and 
phosphatic  elements. 

For  infants,  milk  is  the  only  safe,  and  therefore  requisite 
diet.  Before  eight  months,  the  glands  which  secrete  the  fluid 
by  which  starchy  flood  is  digested,  have  not  developed.  The 
success  which  the  lower  animals  have  in  rearing  their  young  to 
maturity,  ought  to  be  a  lesson  to  our  boasted  civilization,  where 
nearly  one  half  of  the  children  die  before  reaching  the  age  of 
five  years.  Milk,  pure  and  simple,  should  be  given  to  infants, 
properly  diluted  and  sweetened.  And  to  children,  with  insist- 
ance  that  it  be  drank  slowly,  and  in  much  larger  quantity  than 
is  usual.  Sugar,  'molasses,  butter,  arrowroot,  white  flour, 
etc.,  which  the  latter  unfortunates  are  generally  fed  on,  do  not 
contain  any  tooth,  bone,  muscle  or  brain-forming  elements; 
their  constituents  are  carbonaceous,  fat-forming  and  heat-giving, 
and,  given  in  excess,  increase  the  tendency  to  inflammatory 
affections. 

Milk  from  the  cow,  can  be  rendered  very  similar  to  human 
milk,  when  we  take  into  consideration  the  distinctive  charac- 
teristics of  the  two,  the  difference  being  that  the  former  con- 
tains more  casein  (nitrogenous  material)  and  less  sugar  than  the 
latter. 

Prepared  milk,  for  infants,  can  be  made  as  follows:  If  we 
heat  milk  very  gently,  a  thin  skin  will  form  on  the  surface;  this 
is  casein,  and,  by  skimming  it  off  one  or  more  times,  we  de- 
prive the  milk  of  any  desired  proportion,  each  infant's  digest- 
ive power  being  the  most  correct  guide.  The  best  method  of 
sweetening  is  to  use  sugar  of  milk,  the  properties  of  which  are 
entirely  different  from  cane  sugar;  it  can  be  readily  obtained 
from  any  druggist.  The  temperature  at  which  milk,  at  all 
ages,  should  be  given,  is  important;  it  ought  to  be  95°  F. 
(Continued  on  page  18) 

Won't  fail  to  see  tlie  Itattle  of  Cwettyslmrg  Panorama. 


PACIFIC  BANK. 


INCORPORATED  1863. 


Depositors  secured  by  the  unlimited  pro  rata  guaran- 
tee of  all  the  Shareholders. 


SAN  FRANCISCO,  CAL 


Capital     .        .  .  .        si, 000. 000. 00 

Surplus 700,OOO.OO 

Average  Resources      .        .        .          4,356, 17*5.94 


Dividends  and  Coupons  Collected. 
Loans  on  goods  in  transit. 
Bullion  Bought  and  Sold. 

Loans  on  Warehouse  Receipts. 

Drafts  issued  on  Australia  and  the  Orient. 

Orders  Executed  for  all  Investment  Securities. 

State,  County,  City  and  Water  Bonds  negotiated. 

Inquiries  about  the  Pacific  Coast  cheerfully  answered; 

Approved  business  paper  discounted  or  received  as  security- 

for  loans. 
Exchange  on  the  principal  cities  of  the  United  States  bought 

and  sold. 
Letters  of  Credit  for  use  of  travelers,  available  in  all  parts  of 

the  world. 
Telegraphic  Transfers  in  cipher  made  to   Condon,    Paris, 

Berlin,  and  various  places  in  the  United  States. 
Bills  drawn   on  Union  Bank  of  I,ondon,    Credit  Lyonnais^ 

Paris,  and  Direction  der  Disconto  Gesellschaft,  Berlin. 
Collections  made  promptly,  and  at  lowest  market  rates. 


Soups. 


White  Stock  Soup. 

Six  pounds  knuckle  of  veal,  one-half  a  pound  of  lean  bacon,  two  table- 
spoons of  butter  rubbed  in  one  of  flour,  two  onions,  two  carrots,  two  turnips, 
three  cloves  stuck  in  an  onion,  one  blade  of  mace,  bunch  of  herbs,  six  quarts 
of  water,  pepper  and  salt,  and  one  cup  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED 
MILK,  boiling.  / 

Cut  up  the  meat,  slice  vegetables,  put  the  meat,  etc.  on  with  mace,  and  all 
herbs,  except  parsley,  in  two  quarts  of  cold  water.  Boil  slowly  for  about  an 
hour,  then  add  rest  of  cold  water  —  one  gallon.  Cook  slowly  four  hours. 
Strain  off  the  liquor,  season  the  meat  and  vegetables  highly  ;  add  to  them 
three  quarts  of  stock  well  salted,  keep  on  ice.  Heat  part  of  the  stock  up  with 
a  cup  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  stir  in  floured  butter  to 
thicken  it.  Carefully  skim  the  soup. 

Ox-Tail  Soup. 

Take  two  ox  -tails  and  two  whole  onions,  two  carrots,  a  small  turnip,  two 
tablespoons  of  flour,  a  little  white  pepper,  three  quarts  of  water,  and  boil  for 
two  hours  ;  then  take  out  the  tails  and  cut  the  meat  in  small  pieces,  return 
the  bones  to  the  pot  for  a  short  time,  boil  for  another  hour,  then  strain  the 
soup,  and  rinse  two  spoonfuls  of  arrowroot  to  add  to  it  with  the  meat  cut  from 
the  bones  ;  add  a  quart  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK  and 
let  all  boil  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour. 


Balls   for  Soup. 

Boil  four  eggs,  mash  the  yolks  with  yolk  of  one  raw  egg,  and  one  table- 
spoonful  of  flour,  pepper,  salt  and  parsley  ;  make  into  balls  and  boil  ten 
minutes  in  soup. 

'Eel  Soup. 

Put  three  pounds  of  small  eels  in  two  quarts  of  water  with  a  crust  of 
bread,  some  mace,  whole  pepper,  sweet  herbs,  and  an  onion  ;  cover  them  close 
and  stew  till  the  fish  is  quite  broken  ;  then  strain  it  off  and  serve  with  some 
toasted  bread  cut  in  slices.  Before  serving,  thicken  with  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of 
EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  CREAM,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  flour 
mixed  in  it. 

Oyster  Soup. 

Take  one  quart  of  water,  one  pint  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED 
MILK,  one  small  tea-cup  of  butter,  four  crackers  rolled  fine,  one  teaspconful  of 
salt,  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  pepper.  Bring  to  full  boiling  heat  as  soon  as 
possible,  then  add  one  quart  of  oysters.  Let  the  whole  come  to  a  boiling  heat 
quickly  and  remove  from  the  fire. 


Oyster  Soup. 

One-half  pint  tomatoes,  three-quarters  of  a  pint  of  boiling  water,  butter  the 
quarter  size  of  an  egg,  one-quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  each  of  soda,  salt  and 
pepper,  and  one  pint  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAItlY  BOTTLED  MILK. 

Put  the  tomatoes  and  hot  water  over  the  fire,  strain  and  rub  through 
collander.  Meanwhile  boil  the  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK, 
stir  in  soda  and  butter,  let  it  come  to  a  boil.  Put  pepper  and  salt  with  toma- 
toes, simmer  five  minutes,  and  then  stir  in  the  milk.  Serve  with  crackers. 

Veal  Soup. 

To  about  three  pounds  of  a  joint  of  veal,  which  must  be  well  broken  up, 
put  four  quarts  of  water  and  set  it  over  to  boil.  Prepare  one-quarter  pound  of 
macaroni  by  boiling  it  by  itself  with  sxifficient  water  to  cover  it  ;  add  a  little 
butter  to  the  macaroni  when  it  is  tender  ;  strain  the  soup  and  season  to  taste  ; 
then  add  the  macaroni  in  the  water  in  which  it  is  boiled.  The  addition  of  a 
pint  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK  and  celery  flavor  is  relished 
by  many. 


CONNECTICUT  MUTUAL  LIFE 

Insurance  Company, 


OF  HARTFORD,  CONN. 


Organised  1840. 

JACOB  L.  GREENE,  President. 
JOHN  M.  TAYLOR,  Vice-President.  W.  G.  ABBOT,  Secretary. 

D.  H.  WELLS,  Actuary.  ELISHA  RISLEY,  Supt.  of  Agencies. 


AN  UNEQUALLED  RECORD. 

The  Connecticut  Mutual  Life  Insurance  Company's  forty-three  years  adminis- 
tration of  trust  funds  challenges  comparison  with  any  similar  institution. 

Better  Results  Have  Never  Been  Obtained. 

ASSETTS:  LIABILITIES:  SURPLUS: 

$57,460,649,20.  $52,245.939.61.  $5,214,709.59. 


THE  CONNECTICUT  MUTUAL,  by  economical  management  and  profitable 
investments,  has  made  and  saved  for  its  members,  $36,109,097.38  more  than 
they  have  paid  in  premiums. 

Since  organization  this  Company  has  paid  to  its 

members  and  its  representatives      -         -      $134,162,485.15 
Add  present  Assets 57,460,049.20 

Total         -  $191,623,134.35 

Total  premiums  received  since  organization       -        155,424,036.97 

(lain  over  premium  payments  -        $36,199,097.38 


A  RECORD  UNEQUALLED  BY  ANY  OTHER  LIFE  INSURANCE  COMPANY. 

The  Company's  income  from  premiums,  interest,  rents,  profit  and  loss,  has 

been  $214,535,941.76  !     Over  $59,000,000.00  more  than  premiums  received. 

The  average  expense  of  creating,  handling  and  distributing  this  great 

business  has  been  but  S.4  per  cent.,  the  lowest  among  American  or  European 

Companies. 

Should  you  at  any  time  contemplate  insuring  your  life,  please  remember 
that  there  is  no  better  Company  than  The  Connecticut  Mutual  Life  Insurance 
Company  of  Hartford,  Conn.  Its  liberal  contracts,  both  Life  and  Endowment, 
its  large  surplus,  its  unequaled  record  for  economy  of  management  and  its  con- 
servative basis  for  future  solvency,  combine  to  give  that  which  is  the  ideal  of 
life  insurance — PROTECTION  FOR  YOUR  FAMILY,  if  you  die,  or  provision  for  your- 
self if  you  LIVE.  To  enumerate  the  many  merits  of  this  excellent  Company  in 
this  small  space  is  impossible. 

Premium  rates  and  full  information  will  be  cheerfully  furnished  by 

F.  R.  MOVES,  Agent 

315  California  St.,  San  Francisco,  Cal. 


Swiss  While  Soup. 

Stock  for  six  persons.  Beat  up  three  eggs,  two  spoons  of  flour  and  one  cup 
of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  pour  this  slowly  through  a 
sieve  into  the  boiling  soup,  adding  salt  and  pepper. 

Clam  Soup  No.  2. 

timimm Quft  saif.  p0rk  jn  Very  small  squares  and  fry  light  brown ;  add  one  large 
onion  cut  very  fine  and  cook  about  ten  minutes  ;  add  two  quarts  of  water  and 
one  quart  of  raw  potatoes  sliced ;  let  it  boil.  Then  add  one  can  of  clams. 
Mix  one  tablespoon  of  flour  with  water,  put  it  with  one  pint  of  EWELL'S  X. 
L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK  and  pour  into  the  soup  and  let  it  boil  about  five 
minutes.  Butter,  pepper,  salt  and  Worcestershire  sauce,  to  taste. 

Lobster  Soup. 

One  large  lobster  ;  pick  all  the  meat  from  shell  and  chop  fine  ;  scald  one 
quart  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK  and  one  pint  of  water ; 
then  add  the  lobster,  one  pound  of  butter,  a  tablespoon  of  flour  and  salt  and 
red  pepper,  to  taste.  Boil  ten  minutes. 

Soup  Balls. 

Fry  one^small  onion  to  a  fine  brown  ;  take  a  quarter  of  a  loaf  of  stale 
bread,  soak  in  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK  ;  salt  and  pepper 
to  taste,  mix  well  and  stir  all  togetner  in  the  pan  with  the  onion,  for  five 
mimites  ;  when  cool  add  one  egg  well  beaten,  form  into  balls,  and  put  into 
soup  five  minutes  before  serving. 

Asparagus  Soup. 

Three  or  four  pounds  of  veal  cut  fine,  a  little  salt  pork,  two  or  three 
bunches  of  asparagus  and  three  quarts  of  water.  Boil  one-half  of  the  asparagus 
with  the  meat,  leaving  the  rest  in  water  until  about  twenty  minutes  before 
serving  ;  then  add  the  rest  of  the  asparagus  and  boil  just  before  serving  ;  add 
one  pint  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK.  Thicken  with 
flour ;  seasonj;  boil  soup  about  three  hours  before  adding  last  one-half  of 
asparagus. 

Kii'S'  Dumplings  for  Soup. 

Make$a  batter  of  two  well-beaten  eggs,  half  a  pint  of  EWELL'S  X.  L. 
DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK  and  as  much  wheat  flour  as  will  make  a  smooth 
batter,  about  as  thick  as  pound  cake  ;  drop  it  by  the  spoonful  into  the  boiling 
soup,  until  all  is  used,  then  cover  it  for  fifteen  minutes. 

Savoy  Soup. 

«  Remove  the  outside  leaves,  cut  in  quarters  and  boil  in  clear  water  two 
small  heads  of  savoy  cabbage  ;  when  tender,  drain  off  and  press  all  the  water 
from  them  ;  put  them  to  as  much  beef  broth  as  will  cover  them ;  put  it  into  a 
closely  covered  stew-pan  or  soup-pot  over  a  moderate  fire  for  one  hour ;  set  on 
the  fire  a  large  frying  pan  with  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  sweet  butter ;  let  it 
become  hot ;  shake  flour  from  a  dredging  box  over  it,  until  the  whole  surface 
is  white,  then  stir  it  until  it  becomes  brown,  taking  care  not  to  burn  it ;  cut 
two  large  white  onions  into  it  and  frythem,  as  soon  as  they  are  nicely  colored  ; 
add  it  to  the  soup  ;  soak  some  crackers  or  sliced  rolls  in  a  quart  of  boiling 
EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK  and  add  it  to  the  soup. 

USE  EWEM/S   X.   I,.   DAIRY   IBOTTT^KD   J 

PUREST  AND  BEST  IN  THE   WORLD. 


10 


DENTIST. 

C.  0.  DEAN,  D.  D.  S., 

126  Kearny  Street, 

COR.  KEARNY  AND  SUITER  STS.. 
Thurlow  Block,  Rooms  10  and  n 


SAN  FRANCISCO. 


LAUGHING  GAS 


AND  ALL  — 


ANESTHETICS   GIVEN 


Fifteen  ~Y~ears  in  the  Same  Office. 


ALL     WORK 

FIRST  CLASS  and  at  REASONABLE  RATES. 


Office  PI  ours  9  to  5. 


11 

To  Get  up  a  Soup  in  Haste. 

Chop  some  cold  cooked  meat  fine,  and  put  a  pint  into  a  stew-pan  with 
some  gravy,  season  with  pepper  and  salt  and  a  little  butter  if  the  gravy  is  not 
rich,  add  a  little  flour  moistened  with  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED 
MILK  and  three  pints  boiling  water,  boiled  moderately  one-half  an  hour. 
Strain  over  some  rice  or  nicely  toasted  bread,  and  serve. 

Soup  JIaigre. 

Melt  half  a  pound  of  butter  in  a  stew  pan,  slice  six  onions  into  it,  add  two. 
heads  of  celery,  cut  small ;  one  small  cabbage  and  a  bunch  of  parsley  cut 
small ;  shake  these  together  over  the  fire  for  fifteen  minutes,  then  stir  in  three 
rolled  crackers  ;  add  further,  two  quarts  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED 
MILK,  and  pepper  and  salt  to  taste  ;  let  it  boil  gently  for  three-quarterr  of  an 
hour,  then  take  it  from  the  fire,  stir  into  it  two  well  beaten  eggs,  and  serve. 

Onion  Soup. 

Put  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter  in  a  stew  pan,  with  six  large  white 
onions  cut  in  slices,  let  them  fry  a  nice  brown,  then  add  six  crackers  rolled, 
pepper  to  taste,  and  a  quart  of  boiling  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED 
MILK  ;  let  it  simmer  for  fifteen  minutes  and  serve. 

Vermicelli  Soup. 

Swell  quarter  of  a  pound  of  vermicelli  in  a  pint  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY" 
BOTTLED  MILK  and  a  pint  of  water,  then  add  it  to  a  good  beef  soup  with 
one-quarter  pound  of  sweet  butter  ;  let  the  soup  boil  for  fifteen  minutes  after 
it  is  added. 

Chicken  Cream  Soup. 

Boil  an  old  fowl  with  an  onion  in  four  quarts  of  cold  water  until  there 
remain  but  two  quarts.  Take  it  out  and  let  it  get  cold.  Cut  off  the  whole  of 
the  breast  and  chop  very  fine.  Mix  with  the  pounded  yolks  of  two  hard 
boiled  eggs  and  rub  through  a  collander.  Cool,  skim  and  strain  the  soup  into 
a  soup  pot.  Season,  add  the  chicken  and  egg  mixture,  simmer  ten  minutes, 
and  pour  into  the  tureen.  Then  add  a  small  cup  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY 
BOTTLED  MILK,  boiling. 

Celery  Soup  Zio.  2. 

Celery  soup  may  be  made  with  white  stock.  Cut  down  the  white  of  half 
a  dozen  heads  of  celery  into  little  pieces  and  boil  it  in  four  pints  of  white 
stock,  with  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  lean  ham  and  two  ounces  of  butter.  Sim- 
mer gently  for  a  fiill  hour,  then  drain  through  a  sieve,  return  the  liquor  to  pan 
and  stir  in  a  few  spoonfuls  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  CREAM 
with  great  care.  Serve  with  croutons  and  thicken  with  flour.  Season  to  taste. 

Corn  Soup. 

One  small  beef  bone,  two  quarts  of  water,  four  tomatoes,  eight  ears  of 
corn  ;  let  the  meat  boil  a  short  time  in  the  water ;  cut  the  corn  from  the  cob 
and  put  in  the  cobs  with  the  cut  corn  and  tomatoes  ;  let  it  boil  about  half 
an  hour;  remove  the  cobs  ;  just  before  serving  add  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAI.RY 
BOTTLED  MILK,  which  allow  to  boil  for  a  few  moments  only  ;  season  with 
salt  and  pepper. 

Corn  Soup  ^fo.  2. 

One  quart  of  corn  cut  from  the  cob  in  three  pints  of  EWELL'S  X.  L. 
DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK  ;  when  the  grain  is  quite  tender,  mix  with  them 
two  ounces  of  sweet  butter  rolled  in  a  tablespoon  of  flour ;  let  it  boil  fifteen 
minutes  longer  ;  just  before  taking  up  the  soup,  beat  up  an  egg  and  stir  in 
with  pepper  and  salt. 


USK  TIII-:  ISI:ST  OF*  ••:vi-:i£vriu:\<ii, 

THE  BEST  IS  THE  CHEAPEST. 


12 

Potato  Soup. 

Boil  five  or  six  potatoes  with  a  small  piece  of  salt  pork,  and  a  little 
celery  ;  pass  through  a  collander  and  add  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED 
MILK  or  CREAM  (if  milk,  a  little  butter)  to  make  the  consistency  of  thick 
cream.  Chop  a  little  parsley  fine  and  throw  in  ;  let  boil  five  minutes  ;  cut 
some  dry  bread  in  small  dice,  fry  brown  in  hot  lard  ;  drain  them  and  place  in 
bottom  of  soup  tureen,  and  pour  soup  over  ;  chop  two  onions  and  boil  with 
soup,  if  liked. 

Pea   Soup. 

Cut  two  large  slices  of  ham  into  dice  with  a  sliced  onion,  fry  them  in  a 
little  bacon  fat  until  lightly  browned.  Cut  up  one  turnip,  one  large  carrot, 
four  stalks  celery  and  one  leek  fine  ;  add  these  last  ingredients  to  the  ham 
and  onion,  simmer  for  fifteen  minutes  ;  then  pour  over  them  three  quarts  of 
corned  beef,  or  hot,  water,  add  a  pint  of.  split  peas,  which  have  been  soaked  in 
cold  water  all  night  ;  boil  till  peas  are  tender,  stirring  constantly  ;  add  salt 
and  pepper  with  a  teaspoonful  of  brown  sugar.  Remove  soup  and  rub  through 
a  sieve.  Thicken  a  little  with  a  little  flour  stirred  in  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY 
BOTTLED  MILK  ;  return  soup  to  the  fire,  simmer  for  half  an  hour.  Serve 
with  croutons. 

Chicken   Soup. 

Take  three  young  male  chickens  ;  cut  them  up,  put  them  in  a  saucepan 
with  three  quarts  veal  stock  ;  a  sliced  carrot,  one  turnip,  and  one  head  of 
celery  may  be  put  with  them  and  removed  before  the  soup  is  thickened  ; 
simmer  for  an  hour.  Remove  all  the  white  flesh,  return  the  rest  of  the  birds 
to  the  soup,  boil  gently  for  two  hours.  Pour  a  little  of  the  liquid  over  a 
•quarter  of  a  pound  of  the  crumbs  of  bread  ;  when  well  soaked  put  it  in  mortar 
with  the  white  flesh,  pound  the  whole  to  smooth  paste  ;  add  pinch  of  ground 
mace,  salt  and  pepper,  press  through  a  sieve,  boil  again,  add  a  pint  of  EWELL'S 
X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  CREAM.  Thicken  with  flour  mixed  in  EWELL'S 
X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  remove  bones  and  serve. 

Potage  a  l<a  Reine. 

Remove  the  fat  from  one  quart  of  the  water  in  which  a  chicken  has  been 
boiled.  Season  highly  with  salt,  pepper  and  celery  salt,  and  a  little  onion. 
Mash  the  yokes  of  three  hard  boiled  eggs  fine,  and  mix  them  with  one-half 
cup  of  bread  crumbs  soaked  until  soft  in  a  little  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY 
BOTTLED  MILK.  Chop  the  white  meat  of  the  chicken  very  fine,  stir  it  into 
the  egg  and  bread  paste.  Add  one  pint  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED 
CREAM,  hot,  slowly,  and  then  rub  all  into  the  hot  chicken  liquor.  Boil  five 
minutes.  It  should  be  like  a  puree. 

Celery  Soup. 

Three  pounds  veal,  three  bunches  celery,  one  gallon  water,  one  teacupful 
of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  CREAM,  one  tablespoonful  of  corn- 
starch,  season  to  taste  ;  put  one-half  of  the  celery  in  the  water  with  the  veal  ; 
boil  three  hours;  strain  and  return  to  the  pot,  add  remaining  half  of  the 
celery  ;  season  ;  boil  twenty  minutes  longer.  Just  before  taking  off  the  fire 
add  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  CREAM,  thickened  with  a  table- 
spoonful  of  cornstarch.  Serve  with  croutons. 


I>iiiiipliugs  for  Soup-,. 

Grate  the  crust  of  a  breakfast  roll,  break  remainder  into  crumbs  ;  soak  in 
EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK  ;  drain,  add  two  ounces  flour  ; 
chop  up  one-half  pound  beef-marrow  freed  from  skin  and  sinews  ;  beat  up  yolks 
of  five  eggs  ;  mix  all  together  ;  season  ;  form  into  dumplings  ;  boil  in  soup  half 
an  hour  before  serving. 

Clam  Soil  p. 

Take  about  three  dozen  clams  ;  chop  the  hard  part  of  the  clams,  and  boil 
about  five  minutes  in  a  pint  of  water  ;  add  one  pint  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY 
BOTTLED  MILK,  a  large  spoon  of  butter,  season  to  taste  ;  let  it  boil  up  once  ; 
toast  three  or  four  slices  of  bread  very  brown  and  dry,  lay  into  your  dish  and 
pour  the  above  on. 


13 

Vegetable   Soup. 

Take  a  large  beef  bone  together  with  a  leg  of  veal,  and  cover  with  cold 
water ;  add  salt,  a  large  onion,  half  a  carrot,  two  small  turnips,  celery  and 
parsley  cut  up,  and  skim  just  before  boiling ;  boil  three  or  four  hours  moder- 
ately, strain  and  add  a  little  parsley,  a  small  carrot,  two  small  turnips  chopped, 
tomatoes  and  a  thickening  of  scorched  flour  ;  boil  half  an  hour ;  put  a  cup  of 
EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  CREAM  in  the  tureen  before  the  soup 
is  poured  in. 

I»ea  Soup  3fo.  «. 

Soak  four  cups  split  peas  over  night,  put  in  one  gallon  water  with  one-half 
pound  pork  or  corned  beef  ;  boil  slowly  in  a  porcelain  kettle  until  the  peas  are 
soft  ;  pass  through  a  tin  strainer,  add  a  cup  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY 
BOTTLED  CREAM,  just  before  it  goes  to  table.  Serve  with  dry  toast  quite 
brown. 

Chicken  Soup  ^o.  £. 

Cut  up  one  chicken  ;  put  into  a  stew-pan  two  quarts  of  cold  water,  one 
teaspoonful  salt,  and  one  pod  of  red  pepper ;  when  half  done  add  two  dessert 
spoonfuls  of  well-washed  rice.  When  thoroughly  cooked  remove  the  bird  from 
the  soup,  tear  a  part  of  the  breast  into  shreds,  and  add  it  to  the  soup  with  a 
wine  glassful  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  CREAM. 

*  V;il»    Soup. 

Boil  the  crab  about  twenty  minutes  ;  take  the  white  meat  from  the  shell, 
strip  it  into  small  pieces  ;  boil  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK 
and  water,  add  the  crab,  and  thicken  with  sifted  cracker ;  when  done,  add  a, 
nice  piece  of  butter  ;  season  with  salt  and  pepper  ;  two  large  crabs  will  make 
two  quarts  of  soup. 


Oyster  Soup  ."\o. 

ster 

DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK. 


Made  the  same  as  crab  soup,   using  oysters  instead  of  crab  ;    add  some 
crackers.     Be  sure  and  use  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIR 


Celery  Cream  Soup. 

One  quart  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  one  pint  veal 
stock  ;  season  plentifully  with  celery,  straining  before  using,  and  flavor  slightly 
with  nutrneg.  Thicken  with  a  little  flour.  Put  celery  with  stock.  At  the 
last  add  small  croutons  of  toast. 

This  soup  is  especially  recommended  as  being  cheap  yet  delicious  and 
appetizing. 


celery. 


Cream  of  Lettuce  Soup. 

This  soup  is  made  the  same  as  above,  except  that  lettuce  is  substituted  for 
rv. 


lie  an  Soup. 


Made  in  same  manner  as  pea  soup.     Don't  forget  the  cup  of  EWELL'S 
X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  CREAM. 


Tomato  Soup. 

Four  good  sized  tomatoes  boiled  with  skins  on  in  a  quart  of  water ;  put  in 
a  collander  and  mash  them  ;  then  put  a  teaspoonful  of  soda  in  the  tomartoes. 
Boil  one  quart  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  add  a  piece  of 
butter,  pepper  and  salt,  the  same  as  for  other  soup  ;  roll  a  cracker  and  put  into, 
the  milk,  add  the  tomatoes  and  serve. 


14 

JAS.  G.  STEELE  &  CO, 

and 

635     Nl  A  R  K:  E  T     STREKT, 

MANUFACTURERS  AND  SOLE  PROPRIETORS  OF 

STEELE'S  AURANTINE,  for  Cleansing  Gloves,  Clothing,  &c.; 
STEELE'S  COLD  CREAM; 

STEELE'S  COUGH  MIXTURE  ; 

STEELE'S  EXTRA  TOILET  COLOGNE; 

STEELE'S  FLORENTINE  TOOTH  WASH  ; 
STEELE'S  GLUCOLEIN, 

(The  ONLY  palatable  preparation  of  Cod  Liver  Oil); 

STEELE'S  GLYCERINE  LOTION  ; 

STEELE'S  GRINDELIA  EXTRACT, 

(For  the  cure  of  Poison  Oak); 

STEELE'S  PERFUMES,  for  the  Handkerchief; 

STEELE'S  SAPONACEOUS  TOOTH  POWDER; 

STEELE'S  WINE  OF  PEPSIN  E,  Ac.,  &c. 


Agents  for  Ricord's  .Restorative   Pills,    Wm.    Lassen's   Hair    Elixir,    and 
True's  Celebrated  Mineral  powders. 


635  MARKET  STREET,  PALACE  HOTEL, 


Tomato  Soup  >o.  3. 

Boil  a  dozen,  or  a  can  of  tomatoes  till  they  are  thoroughly  cooked.  To  a 
quart  of  tomato  pulp,  add  a  scant  teaspoonful  of  saleratus  dissolved  in  water. 
Put  into  a  sauce-pan,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  when  it  bubbles,  sprinkle  and 
stir  in  a  heaping  teaspoonful  flour  ;  when  it  is  cooked,  stir  into  this  a  pint  or 
more  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  HOT  MILK,  a  little  pepper 
and  salt,  when  it  boils  add  the  tomato  pulp.  Heat  it  well  and  press  through 
a  sieve. 

To  Color  Soups. 

A  fine  amber  color  is  obtained  by  adding  greated  carrot.  Red,  by  using 
strained  tomatoes.  Burnt  Sugar,  or  browned  lour  added  to  clear  stock  will 
give  soups  a  rich  brown  color.  Two  baked  onions  well  browned  and  then 
chopped  fine  makes  an  excellent  coloring  and  flavoring  The  shells  of  green 
peas  dried  in  the  oven  until  they  are  brown  but  not  black,  will  also  answer  to 
brown  soup,  and  will  keep  all  winter  if  hung  in  a  dry  place. 

Cape  Cotl  C/liovi  «ler. 

Cut  into  small  pieces  five  slices  of  salt  pork,  fry  them  quite  brown,  chop 
two  onions  fine,  put  them  in  after  the  pork  is  brown,  and  fry  them  till  tender  ; 
pour  hot  water  into  the  pot  (about  two  and  one-half  quarts  to  the  above)  and 
add  three  pounds  fish  ;  let  it  boil  about  twenty  minutes,  season  with  salt  and 
pepper ;  make  a  little  thickening  of  flour  and  milk,  and  add  while  boiling  also 
•some  sliced  potatoes  and  crackers. 


15 

Chicken  Chowder. 

Cut  your  fowl  into  small  pieces,  cover  it  with  three  and  one-half  quarts 
water  ;  cook  until  tender ;  then  put  in  your  frying  pan  the  pork  as  above,  fry 
brown  ;  add  the  onions,  fry  till  tender,  and  pour  this  into  the  pot  with  the 
chicken.  Let  it  boil  up,  add  pepper  and  salt  and  thicken. 

C.rst  l»  Soup  No.  2. 

Boil  the  crab  about  twenty  minutes  ;  take  the  white  meat  from  the  shells, 
strip  into  small  pieces.  Boil  milk  and  water,  add  the  crab,  thicken  with  sifted 
cracker  ;  when  done,  add  piece  of  butter  ;  season  with  salt  and  pepper. 

Wine  Soup. 

Boil  three-quarters  pounds  raisins  in  about  three  quarts  of  water  for  two 
hours  :  make  a  thickening  of  flour  and  water  stir  in  sufficient  to  make  as  thick 
as  common  soup,  grate  in  part  of  a  nutmeg  and  sweeten  with  sugar  to  taste. 
Add  a  small  piece  of  butter  a  wine-glass  of  wine.  Very  nice. 

Vegetable  Soup. 

Take  a  large  beef  bone  and  cover  with  cold  water  ;  add  salt,  a  large  onion, 
half  a  carrot,  two  small  turnips,  celery  and  parsley  cut  up,  and  skim  just 
before  boiling ;  boil  three  or  four  hours  moderately,  strain  and  add  a  little 
parsley,  a  small  carrot,  two  small  turnips  chopped,  tomatoes,  and  a  thickening 
of  flour;  boil  half  an  hour.  A  cup  of  E WELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED 
MILK  in  the  tureen  improves  it. 

mock-Turtle  Soup. 

Boil  a  calf's  head  and  haslet  until  perfectly  tender  in  four  or  five  quarts  of 
water  ;  take  them  out,  strain  the  liquor  and  skim  off  the  fat ;  cut  the  meat, 
the  lights,  a  part  of  the  heart,  and  of  the  liver  into  small  pieces  ;  put  these 
into  the  liquor  with  two  chopped  onions,  a  few  cloves  and  a  little  sweet 
margoram,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  then  boil  gently  an  hour  and  a  half ;  then 
put  the  whole  yolks  of  four  eggs  and  the  chopped  whites  in  the  tureen  with 
one-quarter  pint  of  wine  and  pour  the  soup  in  boiling  hot ;  slice  two  lemons 
and  put  in  soup. 

Turnip  Soup. 

oL-.i'  Stew  for  about  four  hours  a  knuckle  of  veal  in  a  little  over  four  quarts  of 
water  ;  cool,  skim  off  the  fat,  and  bring  the  stock  to  a  boil.  Put  into  the 
soup,  when  boiling,  an  onion,  about  a  dozen  small  turnips,  and  a  little  thyme 
chopped  very  fine.  Let  the  soup  then  simmer  for  about  an  hour.  Then  strain, 
return  to  fire  and  add  a  cup  of  E  WELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK, 
which  has  been  thickened  with  a  little  flour,  and  a  large  lump  of  butter. 
Season  to  taste,  bring  to  a  boil,  stirring  constantly,  and  remove  instantly. 

•.,:•  ,-Jf  you  want  your  babies  fat  and  rosy,  feed  them  on  EW ELL'S  X.  L. 
DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK. 

<»V;i  li;i  iti   Soup. 

Chop  very"  finely  three  onions,  two  carrots,  three  turnips,  one  bunch  celery 
and  put  them  over  fire  with  three  and  one-half  quarts  of  water.  Simmer 
gently  for  about  forty  minutes,  then  add  a  small  cabbage,  which  has  been 
previously  parboiled  and  chopped  up.  In  about  twenty  minutes  put  in  a  pint 
of  stewed  tomatoes  and  some  sweet  herbs,  then  boil  all  quickly  about  twenty 
minutes.  Rub  through  a  collander,  return  to  fire,  stir  in  lump  of  butter, 
pepper  and  salt  and  three-quarters  cup  of  E  WELL'S  X.  L.  DAJRY  BOTTLED 
CREAM  thickened  with  a  little  rice-flour  ;  let  it  boil  up,  then  serve. 

Do  you  want  a  good  digestion?  Drink  SWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY 
BOTTLED  MILK. 

•W  JUI-I/S  X.  I,.   l» A  I  It  Y     150  Bll   1  I»  MII.K, 

PUREST  AND  BEST  IN  THE  WORLD. 


16 


Take  about  a  pound  and  three-quarters  of  beef  cut  up  small,  and  three- 
quarters  pound  corned  pork  cut  up,  and  put  this  with  two  quarts  of  ochras 
sliced  thin,  enough  cold  water  to  cover  them,  and  stew  for  about  an  hour. 
Then  add  about  a  quart  of  sliced  tomatoes  and  two  quarts  of  boiling  water,  or 
a  little  more  and  boil  nearly  an  hour  longer,  skimming  at  intervals  with  a 
silver  spoon.  When  the  contents  of  the  vessel  are  boiled  to  pieces,  put  in 
three  tablespoons  of  butter,  with  salt  and  pepper.  Strain  and  serve  with 
croutons. 

E  WELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK  is  absolutely  pure.  Try  it 
and  see. 

Mutton  Bi-otli. 

Boil  for  two  and  a  quarter  hours,  slowly,  about  four  pounds  of  lean 
mutton  in  a  gallon  of  water.  Then  add  half  teacup  of  rice  that  has  been 
soaked  in  warm  water  about  two  hours.  Boil  an  hour  longer.  Beat  an  egg, 
stir  it  in  a  cup  of  SWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  which  has 
been  thickened  with  a  little  flour.  Mix  with  this  gradually  some  of  the  scald- 
ing soup,  until  the  egg  is  partly  cooked.  Pour  into  the  pot,  removing  the 
meat,  season  with  pepper,  salt  and  parsley.  Boil  up  and  serve. 

Oiblet  Soup. 

Break  into  small  pieces  one  and  three-quarters  pounds  veal,  half  pound 
ham,  and  put  over  fire,  with  the  giblets  and  neck  of  three  chickens,  in  three 
quarts  of  water,  add  some  sweet  herbs  and  a  little  allspice,  and  boil  for  two 
hours  slowly.  Remove  giblets,  keeping  them  warm  in  a  pan.  Stir  into  a  cup 
of  the  hot  soup  a  tablespoon  of  flour  which  has  been  wet  with  cold  water  and 
stirred  in  a  paste,  and  also  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  butter.  Return  to  the 
pot  and  boil  about  twenty  minutes.  Season  then  with  a  glass  of  brown  sherry 
and  a  tablespoon  of  tomato  catsup.  Then  add  chopped  giblets,  boil  up  and 
serve. 

Venison  Soup. 

Cut  up  three  and  one-quarter  pounds  venison,  and  one  pound  salt  pork  ; 
chop  one  onion  and  a  head  of  celery.  Put  these  on  fire  with  just  enough 
water  to  cover  them,  and  stew  for  an  hour  slowly,  keep  pot  covered.  Then 
add  two  quarts  boiling  water,  and  a  little  mace  and  cayenne  pepper.  Boil  two 
hours  longer,  salt,  strain,  then  return  to  the  pot.  Stir  in  tablespoon  butter, 
thicken  with  a  paste  of  browned  flour  and  cold  water,  add  tablespoon  of 
walnut  catsup,*some  Worcestershire  sauce  and  glass  of  brown  sherry. 

Brown  €»ravy  Soup. 

Slice  one  large  onion  and  fry  brown  in  some  nice  dripping.  Remove  and 
keep  warm  in  a  covered  pan.  Cut  about  three  and  one-quarter  pounds  beef  in 
small'  pieces  about  an  inch  by  half  an  inch,  and  fry  brown.  Chop  one  carrot, 
one  turnip  and  a  head  of  celery,  and  put  them  with  meat  and  onions  in  a 
covered  pot  with  three  and  three-quarters  quarts  water.  Stew  for  two  hours. 
Then  season,  boil  about  an  hour  longer,  and  skim  carefully.  Strain,  boil  up 
again  and  add  a  handful  of  boiled  vermicelli.  9 

Rabbit  Soup. 

Prepare  as  you  would  for  venison  soup,  first  dissecting  the  rabbit  and 
cracking  the  bones,  and  put  in  less  onions.  Add  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs. 

Catfish  Soup. 

Skin,  clean  and  cut  up  six  catfish.  Chop  three-quarters  pound  of  salt  pork 
into  small  pieces.  Put  these  in  a  pot  with  two  and  one-quarter  quarts  of 
water,  sweet  herbs  minced  finely,  and  one  head  of  celery.  Boil  for  an  hour, 
strain,  return  to  fire  and  add  a  pint  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED 
MILK,  which  should  be  hot.  Then  add  two  beaten  eggs  and  a  large  lump  of 
butter.  Boil  and  serve  with  croutons. 


17 


pish. 


Codfish. 

Codfish  should  always  be  laid  in  soak,  it  should  never  boil,  but  simmer. 

Stewed  Codfish. 

Scald  some  soaked  codfish  by  putting  it  over  the  fire  in  boiling  water  for 
ten  minutes ;  pick  it  in  flakes,  and  put  it  in  a  stew-pan  with  a  tablespoon  of 
butter  worked  in  the  same,  of  flour,  and  as  much  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY 
BOTTLED  MILK  as  will  moisten  it,  let  it  stew  gently  for  ten  minutes ;  add 
pepper  to  taste  ;  put  it  in  a  deep  dish,  slice  hard  boiled  eggs  over,  and  sprigs 
of  parsley  around  the  edge. 

Broiled  Codfish. 

Cut  salt  codfish  in  strips,  lay  it  in  water  over  night ;  when  taken  from  the 
water  thoroughly  dry  it,  and  have  ready  a  hot  pan  well  buttered,  dip  each 
piece  in  flour,  broil  it  over  a  brisk  fire. 

Purest  and  Best. 

Thousands  of  children  ought  to  drink  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED 
MILK. 

Suggestion. 

Always  freshen  fish  or  ham  in  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK. 

Sauce  for  Codfish. 

Chop  an  onion  fine  and  boil  it  in  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED 
MILK,  when  done  add  one  tablespoonful  of  flour  rubbed  with  one  of  butter, 
add  a  little  parsley. 

Codfish  Balls. 

Take  four  cups  of  boiled  potatoes,  chopped  fine,  three  cups  of  soaked  codfish 
minced  fine  ;  add  half  a  cup  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK, 
mix  all  well  together,  then  add  one  well  beaten  egg,  beat  it  up  again  thoroughly, 
drop  by  spoonfuls  into  hot  lard  and  fry. 

Codfish   Putt'. 

Receipt  the  same  as  for  codfish  balls,  put  in  an  earthen  baking  plate  with 
bits  of  butter  over  the  top,  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Codfish   Hash. 

One  pint  soaked  codfish  well  freshened,  chopped  fine,  one  quart  cold  boiled 
chopped  potatoes,  one  onion  chopped  fine,  mix  well  together ;  three  slices  of 
salt  pork,  cut  in  small  pieces  and  fried  brown  ;  add  your  fish  and  potatoes  to 
the  pork,  let  it  steam  ten  minntes,  be  careful  and  not  let  it  burn,  then  add  one 
cup  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK  and  stir  thoroughly,  let 
it  simmer  over  a  slow  fire  for  fifteen  minutes  until  it  forms  a  brown  crust,  then 
turn  it  over  on  a  platter  and  serve. 

Codfish   Balls. 

Four  cups  of  mashed  potatoes  ;  three  cups  of  boiled  codfish,  chop  fine  with 
one  onion,  add  a  little  mustard  and  red  pepper  ;  three  tablespoons  ofjEWELL'S 
X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  CREAM,  two  eggs,  beat  them  all  together 
thoroughly  ;  roll  into  balls  and  fry  as  doughnuts  in  hot  lard. 


18 

The  source  of  supply  from  which  the  city  family  receives  its 
milk,  should  be  chosen  with  great  consideration;  the  health  of 
the  children,  and  the  comfort  of  parents  and  guardians,  depend 
upon  the  milk  being  sweet  and  pure.  The  cows  should  be  well 
fed,  healthy,  and  surrounded  by  good  sanitary  conditions. 
The  milk  should  be  immediately  strained  and  placed  in  some 
cool,  cleanly  apartment,  where  germs  of  disease  and  fatal 
emanations  can  not  reach  it.  Nothing  takes  up  the  evils  of 
the  surrounding  atmosphere  more  quickly  or  surely  than  milk; 
it  forms  a  culture  fluid  for  them  when  introduced,  and,  as  a 
large  proportion  of  registered  deaths  are  attributed  to  the  lower- 
ing of  the  vitality  of  the  masses  by  the  use  of  vitiated  and 
improper  food,  it  is  undoubtedly  necessary  to  exercise  care  in 
this  case  at  least.  Moreover,  it  is  now  a  well-ascertained  fact, 
that  disease  and  poisonous  material  from  certain  herbs  can  be 
taansmitted  from  the  cow  through  the  milk.  A  great  question 
of  the  day  is,  the  communicability  of  disease  from  animals  to 
mankind;  it  promises  to  be  a  still  greater  one  in  the  future. 
The  science  of  the  prevention  of  disease  is  in  its  infancy,  that 
of  the  treament  of  disease,  has  been,  in  many  instances,  a  gre- 
vious  failure. 

Not  a  word  can  be  said  in  favor  of  keeping  a  dairy  within 
city  limits;  want  of  space  and  proper  ventilation  for  the  cows, 
the  dangers  of  contamination  to  the  milk,  and  the  water,  often 
impure,  which  is  added,  render  the  risk  so  great  that  many 
Boards  of  Health  prohibit  it  altogether. 

For  young  children,  the  milk  of  the  cow  furnishes  the  most 
proper  elements  of  nutrition.  In  selecting  the  food  to  accom- 
pany it,  much  will  depend  upon  the  inherited  tendencies  and 
constitution  of  the  child.  Should  it  be  fat,  .heavy  and  stupid, 
too  much  carbonaceous  food — such  as  white  flour,  butter, 
sugar  and  cream  are  being  given;  on  the  other  hand,  is  a  child 
precocious  (and  such  is  acknowledgedly  the  most  difficult  to 
rear),  lean  meat,  oaten  meal,  cracked  wheat,  and  other  highly 
nitrogenous  and  phosphatic  articles  of  food  tend  to  develop  the 
muscles  and  brain  too  rapidly.  These  are  the  two  extremes, 
and  between  them,  there  is  a  large  range  of  other  children 
whose  dieting  likewise  requires  judgment  and  care.  Milk, 
and,  as  a  rule,  Graham  bread,  lean  meats,  fish,  fruit  and  vege- 
tables, should  not  be  neglected;  white  bread,  sugar,  butter, 
preserves  and  fat  meats  may. 

For  the  sick,  we  must  be  careful  to  have  milk  very  sweet 
and  fresh;  it  is  better  to  obtain  the  milk  twice  daily,  having 
the  morning  delivery  for  use  during  the  day,  and  the  evening 
supply  for  night  time.  It  is  usual  to  skim  it  in  intestinal  dis- 
orders, as  the  cream  is  not  always  digested.  It  may  be  pep- 
tonized  by  the  following  process,  for  sometimes  the  greatest 
dangers  arise  from  the  stomach  and  pancreas  suddenly  striking 
work. 

Pancreatized  Milk. — Milk  is  digested  in  great  part  in  the 
small  intestines;   there  it  is  acted  on  by  the  pancreatic  secre- 
(Continued  on  page  24..} 

Deposit  your  Saving*  with  I*eoples  Home  Ssivings  BS;ciik. 


19 

Scalloped    4  V«i !». 

Have  the  back  upper  shell  carefully  washed,  or  use  small  dishes.  If  the 
shell  is  used  to  contain  the  crab  scrape  it  a  little  and  butter  it.  The  dishes  if 
used  must  also  be  buttered.  For  ten  large  sized  crabs  put  a  tablespoonful  of 
butter  and  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  in  a  saucepan  and  stir  them  over  the  fire, 
then  stir  in  a  pint  of  milk  (E WELL'S  is  the  best)  quite  smoothly,  and  add  the 
<;rab  meat,  two  hard  boiled  e^gs,  chopped,  a  level  teaspoonful  of  salt,  little 
pepper,  a  very  little  cayenne  pepper,  the  grated  rind  of  one  lemon  and  the 
juice.  Let  the  mixture  get  scalding  hot,  put  it  into  the  crab  shell,  dust  it 
with  cracker  dust  or  bread  crumbs,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  lay  the 
shells  in  a  baking  pan,  set  the  pan  in  a  very  hot  oven  ;  just  brown  the  top. 

To   Choose    Lobsters. 

These  are  chosen  more  by  weight  then  by  size,  the  heaviest  are  best.  If 
fresh,  a  lobster  will  be  lively  and  the  claws  will  have  a  strong  motion  when  the 
«yes  are  pressed  with  the  finger. 

To    Itoil    l,ol»*t<>r. 

Place  them  in  boiling  water,  head  first,  which  kills  instantly,  boil  briskly 
for  half  an  hour. 

Buttered    Lobster. 

Take  the  meat  from  the  shell,  and  mince  or  chop  in  small  pieces ;  put  the 
-coral  and  inside,  if  liked  (leave  out  what  is  called  the  lady)  to  a  wine  glass  of 
hot  water  or  vinegar  and  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  fresh  butter  ;  add  •  a  little 
cayenne  pepper  and  salt,  spoonful  of  mustard,  put  it  with  the  lobster  in  a 
stew-pan  over  a  gentle  fire  ;  stir  it  until  it  is  thoroughly  heated  through,  serve 
hot  with  lettuce,  garnish  with  hard  boiled  eggs. 

Soft  Shelled  Clams. 

Soft  shelled  clams  may  be  boiled  from  the  shells,  and  served  with  butter 
and  pepper  over  them. 

Stewed  Soft  Shell  Clams. 

Fifty  clams  freed  from  their  shell  or  black  skin  ;  wash  them  well  in  clear 
"water  and  put  them  in  a  stew-pan  with  very  little  water  ;  cover  and  set  it 
over  a  gentle  fire  for  half  an  hour  ;  then  add  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  dredge 
in  a  tablespooful  of  flour — salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Serve  hot,  some  like  an 
addition  of  wine  or  vinegar. 

To   Fry   Clams. 

Get  them  from  the  shell  and  thoroughly  clean  them,  lay  them  on  a  double 
napkin  to  dry  out  the  water  ;  then  roll  a  few  at  a  time  in  wheat  flour,  until 
they  will  take  no  more,  have  ready  a  frying  pan  with  plenty  of  hot  salted 
lard,  lay  close  together  and  fry  gently  until  one  side  is  a  delicate  brown,  then 
turn  carefully  and  brown  the  other  side,  then  place  on  a  hot  dish,  garnish  with 
parsley. 

Boil   Clams. 

Wash  the  clams  until  perfectly  clean,  put  them  into  a  kettle,  add  a  pint  of 
water,  set  them  over  a  brisk  fire  ;  when  the  shells  open  they  are  done.  When 
done  take  them  from  the  shell,  toast  some  thin  slices  of  bread,  butter  them 
and  cut  them  small,  and  put  them  in  a  deep  dish  ;  place  the  hot  or  warm 
volams  over  the  toast  bread  with  some  of  the  clam  juice. 

KWEIJL'S  X.  I,.   l>  %  1 1C!    BOTTI,EI>  .11 11,14, 

PUREST  AND  BEST  IN  THE  WORLD. 


20 

Stewed   Clams. 

Wash  clean  fifty  sand  clams  and  put  to  them  their  "Wn  liquor  and  water^ 
equal  parts,  nearly  to  cover  them  ;  put  them  in  a  stew-pan  over  a  gentle  fire 
for  half  an  hour  ;  take  off  the  scum  that  rises,  then  add  to  them  two-thirds  of  a 
cup  of  butter,  in  which  is  worked  a  tablespoonful  of  wheat  flour,  and  pepper 
to  taste  ;  let  them  simmer  ten  minutes  longer,  then  serve.  Pour  over  toast  if 
preferred. 

Substitute  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK  for  water,  make* 
them  more  delicate  and  white. 

4  'isi  in  Fritters* 

Take  twenty-five  clams  from  their  shell,  wash  themhclean,  lay  them  on  a 
thick  folded  napkin,  put  a  cup  of  wheat  flour  into  a  basin,  add  to  it  two  well 
beaten  eggs,  half  a  pint  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  a 
little  of  their  own  liquor  ;  beat  the  batter  until  it  is  smooth,  then  stir  in  the 
clams ;  have  ready  a  fry  pan  with  plenty  hot  lard,  put  in  the  batter  by  the 
spoonful ;  let  them  fry  gently  until  one  side  is  a  delicate  brown,  then  turn  the 
other.  Serve  with  lemon  juice. 

Claim    CliOwder. 

Batter  a  deep  tin  dish,  strew  it  thickly  with  grated'  bread  crumbs^ 
sprinkling  some  pepper  over  and  bits  of  butter,  and  if  liked,  some  finely  chopped 
parsley  ;  then  put  a  layer  of  clams,  season  with  pepper  ard  bits  of  butter, 
another  layer  of  bread  crumbs  ;  after  that,  clams  and  bits  of  butter,  little  salt, 
add  a  pint  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK  ;  lastly,  a  layer  of 
cooked  crackers,  place  a  cover  over  the  basin  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  three- 
quarters  of  an  hour. 

C.I  aim    Chowder  No.  3. 

yr~~  Put  in  a  pot  a  layer  of  sliced  pork,  chopped  potatoes,  chopped  clams,  saltv 
pepper  and  lumps  of  butter  and  broken  cracker  soaked  in  EWELL'S  X.  L. 
DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK ;  put  in  layers  and  cover  with"  'clam-juice,  add  a 
little  chopped  parsley  and  stew  slowly  for  two  hours. 

Boiled  Uliiscles. 

Wash  clean  and  put  them  in  a  kettle  with  a  little  water  ;  set  them  over 
the  fire  until  the  shells  are  open  ;  then  take  them  up,  take  out  the  beard  from 
each  one  ;  put  them  in  a  deep  dish,  put  butter,  pepper  and  salt  over,  and  serve 
with  catsup  or  vinegar. 

Boiled  Salmon. 

Sew  up  in  a  mosquito-net  bag,  and  boil  a  quarter  of  an  hour  to  a  pound  in 
hot  salted  water.  When  done,  unwrap  with  care  and  lay  upon  a  hot  dish, 
pour  over  it  a  pint  of  drawn  butter  very  rich,  in  which  has  been  stirred  a 
tablespoonful  of  chopped  parsley  and  a  few  slices  of  lemon,  garnish  with 
sliced  eggs  and  parsley. 

Salmon  Broiled. 

Cut  the  fish  in  slices  about  an  inch  thick  ;  season^  well  with  pepper  and 
salt,  and  broil  over  a  bright  fire  for  ten  minutes,  a  coal  fire  if  clear  is  best.. 
Serve  with  butter  or  tomato  sauce. 

Salmon  Croquettes. 

About  one  pint  of  cold  cooked  salmon,  minced  fine,  one-half  pint  of 
EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  two  tablespoonfuls  butter,  one  of 
flour,  three  eggs,  one  cup  of  bread  crumbs,  pepper  and  salt.  If  corned  salmon 
is  used,  the  liquor  must  be  drained  off ;  and  cream  and  other  ingredients  must 
be  graded  in  proportion  to  the  salmon  used.  Add  the  flour  to  the  butter  and 
mix  together,  put  the  cream  into  a  saucepan,  let  it  come  to  a  boil,  and  stir  in 
the  flour  and  butter,  then  the  salmon  and  seasoning  ;  stir  in  a  well  beaten  egg,, 
when  cold  shape  into  croquettes  and  fry. 


21 

Salmon  and  Caper  Sauce* 

Two  slices  of  salmon,  one-quarter  pound  of  butter,  one  teaspoonful  of 
chopped  parsley,  salt,  pepper,  and  grated  nutmeg,  to  taste.  Lay  the  salmon 
on  a  baking  dish,  place  pieces  of  butter  over  it  and  add  the  other  ingredients, 
baste  frequently  ;  when  done  lay  it  on  a  hot  dish,  pour  caper  sauce  over  it  and 
serve.  Salmon  dressed  with  tomato  sauce  is  very  good. 

Boiled  Cod. 

Clean  the  fish  carefully,  lay  it  on  a  plate  in  a  circle  and  tie  a  netting  cloth 
around  it,  to  a  gallon  of  hot  water  put  a  tablespoonful  of  salt  and  a  gill  of 
vinegar  ;  put  in  the  fish  and  boil  according  to  its  weight,  allowing  fifteen 
minutes  to  a  pound. 

Cod   Vie. 

Any  remains  of  cold  fresh  cod,  or  any  kind  of  fish,  sufficient  melted  butter 
to  moisten  it  ;  mashed  potatoes  enough  to  fill  the  dish,  add  twelve  oysters, 
flake  the  fish  from  the  bones,  cut  away  all  the  skin,  lay  it  in  a  pie  dish,  pour 
over  the  melted  butter  and  oysters,  and  cover  with  mashed  potatoes,  bake  for 
half  an  hour  and  send  to  the  table  hot. 


Boiled 

Cover  the  fish  with^water,  add  half  a  cup  of  vinegar,  salt,  and  an  onion, 
sew  up  the  fish  in  a  piece  of  net  ;  heat  slowly  for  the  first  half  hour,  then  boil 
five  minutes  to  the  pound  quite  fast,  unwrap  and  pour  over  a  pint  of  drawn 
butter  made  from  the  liquor  in  which  the  fish  was  boiled,  garnish  with  parsley 
and  sliced  lemons. 

Fried  Bass. 

Dredge  inside  and  out  with  flour,  and  season  with  salt,  fry  in  hot  butter 
or  lard,  the  momemt  the  fish  are  done  to  a  dark  brown  take  them  from  the 
fat,  on  a  hot  dish,  garnish  with  parsley. 

Baked  Bass. 

Seven  onions  chopped  fine  ;  half  that  quantity  of  bread  crumbs  ;  butter 
the  size  of  an  egg,  ;  pepper  and  salt,  mix  thoroughly  with  anchovy  sauce  until 
•quite  red.  Stuff  your  fish  with  this  dressing  and  pour  the  rest  over  it,  previ- 
ously sprinkling  it  with  red  pepper.  Shad,  pickeral,  and  trout  are  good  the 
same  way.  Tomatoes*  can  be  substituted  for  anchovies. 

Salt  Mackerel  with  Cream  Sauce. 

Soak  until  fresh  in  lukewarm  water,  wipe  dry,  grease  your  gridiron  with 
butter,  and  rub  the  fish  on  both  sides  with  the  same,  melted  ;  then  broil  quickly 
over  a  clear  fire,  be  careful  not  to  break  it,  lay  upon  a  hot  dish,  heat  a  small 
cup  of  E  WELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK  to  scalding  ;  stir  into  it  a 
teaspoonful  of  corn  starch,  wet  up  with  'cold  water,  when  this  thickens  add  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  pepper,  salt  and  chopped  parsley.  Beat  an  egg  light, 
pour  the  sauce  over  it,  put  the  mixture  again  over  the  fire,  for  one  minute  pour 
over  the  fish. 

Fried  Trout. 

Clean  and  dry  well,  dredge  them  with  flour  and  fry  in  a  pan  of  boiling 
hot  fat  or  oil,  turn  them  from  side  to  side  until  they  are  nicely  browned,  drain 
off  all  the  fat  before  sending  to  the  table.  Garnish  with  parsley,  or  provide 
melted  butter. 

Trout  in  Jelly. 

Turn  the  fish  in  rings,  with  tail  in  month.     Prepare  a  seasoned  water  in 
which  to  boil  the  trout,  the  water  should  have  a  little  vinegar  and  salt,  and 
•garlic  ;  boil  them  slowly,  so  as  not  to  break  them,  when  done  baste  with  fish 
:j  elly,  coat  after  coat  as  each  coat  hardens.     Serve  hot. 


22 

ESTABLISHED  1870. 


Boetneke  &  Sehfeek, 

HOMOEOPATHIC  PHARMACY 

JMEannfactnrers    and    Importers, 
WHOLESALE  and  RETAIL. 

234  Suttep  Street,  San  Francisco. 


PROPRIETORS  AND  MANUFACTURERS  OK  THE  CELEBRATED 


Family     Medicine     Cases    a    Specialty. 


Fish  Jelly. 

One  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one  of  flour,  one  large  sliced  onion,  one  cupful 
of  stock,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste  ;  cut  the  onion  fine,  and  fry  brown  in  the 
butter,  add  the  flour,  stir  for  one  minute,  add  the  stock  and  season,  simmer 
five  minutes  ;  then  strain  and  serve. 

To   Fry    Smelts. 

Wash  clean  and  dry  them  thoroughly,  dip  them  in  egg  and  bread  crumbs, 
and  put  them  in  boiling  lard,  fry  a  nice  pale  brown,  be  careful  not  to  break 
them,  dry  them  before  the  fire  on  a  drainer,  garnish  with  parsley. 

l£o:ist  Sturgeon. 

Rub  the  bottom  of  the  saucepan  with  clove  of  garlic,  put  into  it  a  good 
bit  of  butter  or  clearified  fat,  a  pinch  of  flour,  salt  and  pepper,  a  chopped 
onion,  and  any  herb  you  like  the  flavor  of  ;  add  half  a  pint  of  cold  water,  a 
gill  of  vinegar ;  let  it  cook  all  together,  as  soon  as  it  is  all  blended  take  it 
from  he  fire,  and  when  it  is  luke  warm  put  in  the  thick  slices  of  sturgeon,  let . 
them  lie  in  this  sauce  for  three  hours,  turning  them  over  now  and  then,  take 
them  from  the  sauce  and  roast,  basting  them  continually  with  the  sauce. 
Serve  very  hot. 

Fried  Kels. 

Clean  the  eels  well,  cut  them  in  pieces  two  inches  long,  wash  and'  wipe 
them  dry  ;  roll  them  in  wheat  flour  or  rolled  crackers,  and  fry  as  directed  for 
other  fish,  in  hot  lard.  They  should  be  thoroughly  done. 

Boiled  Eels. 

Choose   small   eels  for  boiling,  put  them  in  a  stew-pan  with  a  bunch    of 
parsley  and  just  water  sufficient  to  cover  them,    simmer  until  tender;  take 
hem  out  and  pour  a  little  chopped  parsley  and  butter  over  them. 


23 

Poultry  and  Game. 


Boiled  Fowl. 

Take  a  young  fowl  and  fill  the  inside  with  oysters;  place  in  a  jar  and 
plunge  into  a  kettle  of  water  ;  boil  for  one  and  one-half  hours  ;  there  will  be  a 
quantity  of  gravy  in  the  jar  from  the  juice  of  the  fowl  and  oysters  ;  make  this 
into  a  white  sauce  with  the  addition  of  one  egg  and  half  a  cup  of  EWELL'S 
X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  CREAM  ;  add  oysters  or  serve  up  plain  with  fowl. 

*  % 

Ko:ist  Turkey. 

Having  picked  and  drawn  the  fowl,  wash  them  well  ;  wipe  dry  ; 
dredge  them  with  a  little  flour  inside  and  out,  and  a  little  pepper  and  salt  ; 
prepare  a  dressing  of  bread  and  cracker  crumbs,  fill  the  body  and  crops  of  the 
fowl,  and  then  bake  them  from  two  to  three  hours  ;  baste  them  frequently 
while  roasting  ;  stew  the  giblets  in  a  saucepan  ;  just  before  serving,  chop  the 
giblets  fine.  After  taking  up  the  turkey,  add  the  chopped  giblets  to  the  gra- 
vv  of  the  roast  fowl.  Thicken  with  a  little  flour,  previously  wet  with  half  a 
cup  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK.  Boil  up  and  serve  in 
gravy  dish.  Iloast  turkey  should  be  accompanied  with  celery  and  jellies. 

Baked  Chicken. 

Cut  the  fowls  open  and  lay  them  flat  in  a  pan,  breaking  down  the  breast 
and  the  back  bones  ;  dredge  with  flour  and  season  well  with  salt  and  pepper  and 
with  bits  of  butter.  Put  in  a  very  hot  oven  until  done,  basting  frequently 
with  melted  butter  ;  or,  when  half  done,  take  out  the  chicken  and  finish  by 
broiling  it  upon  a  gridiron  over  bright  coals.  Add  to  the  juices  in  the  pan 
in  which  it  was  baked,  one  tablespoonful  flour  with  one-half  cup  EWELL'S  X. 
L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK. 

Chicken  Fricassee. 

Cut  up  the  chickens  and  put  on  the  fire  in  a  kettle  with  cold  water  suffi- 
cient to  cover,  add  a  little  salt  or  salt  pork  sliced,  boil  until  tender,  and  cut 
up  and  put  in  part  of  a  head  of  celery  when  tender,  have  ready  hot  baking 
powder  biscuits  broken  open  and  laid  on  a  platter.  On  this  place  the  chick- 
ens. Thicken  the  gravy  with  flour  moistened  with  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY 
BOTTLED  MILK,  and  pour  it  over  the  chickens  and  biscuits. 

Fried  Chicken. 

Cut  the  chicken  in  pieces,  lay  it  in  salt  and  water,  which  change  several 
times  ;  roll  each  piece  in  flour.  Fry  in  very  hot  lard  or  butter.  Season  wit  h 
salt  and  pepper.  Fry  parsley  with  them  also.  Make  a  gravy  of  EWELL'S 
X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  CREAM,  seasoned  with  salt,  pepper  and  a  little 
mace,  thickened  with  a  little  flour  in  the  pan  in  which  the  chickens  were  fried, 
pouring  off  the  lard. 

]>ressing  tor  Chickens. 

Chop  bread  crumbs  fine,  season  with  pepper  and  salt  and  butter.  Moisten 
with  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  and  add  a  few  oysters  with 
a  little  of  the  liquor  if  you  like.  The  dressing  is  the  finest  when  it  crumbles  as 
the  fowl  is  cut. 

]>ressing  for  Turkey. 

Stale  bread  or  crackers  soaked  in  one  pint  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY 
BOTTLED  MILK  ;  add  two  tablespoons  of  sage,  two  tablespoons  of  summer 
savory,  two  teaspoons  of  salt,  two  teaspoons  of  pepper.  Butter  the  size  of  an 
egg. 


USE   THE    »UST    OF 

THE  BEST  IS  THE  CHEAPEST. 


24 

tion,  which  is  akaline— add  to  one  pint  of  milk  five  grains  of 
Pancreatic  Ext.  (Fairchild's),  and  15  grains  Bicarbonate  of 
Soda,  having  previously  dissolved  them  in  a  little  water.  Put 
in  a  bottle  and  immerse  it  in  hot,  not  boiling,  water.  Cover 
carefully  in  order  to  retain  the  heat,  and  allow  it  to  stand  in  a 
warm  place  for  an  hour  and  a-half.  At  the  end  of  this  time, 
the  product  will  be  found  of  a  greyish,  yellow  color,  much 
thinner,  and  with  a  bitter  taste.  By  placing  it  on  ice,  or  in 
boiling  water,  the  digestive  process  can  be  stopped,  and  it  may 
be  kept  like  ordinary  milk.  In  many  acute  diseases — such  as 
typhoid  and  scarlet  fever,  milk  is  largely  given.  In  the  former, 
its  value  is  extreme,  and  in  the  latter,  owing  to  milk  having 
diuretic  properties,  albuminuvia  is  less  likely  to  occur. 

A  Milk  Diet. — In  chronic  diseases  much  attention  has  of 
late  years  been  paid  to  a  steady  milk  diet.  This  has  been  par- 
ticularly the  case  in  London,  where  dyspepsia,  gastralgia,  chronic 
diarrhoea,  dysentry,  gastric  catarrh,  ascites,  anasarca,  albumin- 
uria,  diabetes,  eczema,  gout  and  gouty  affections  have  been 
effectually  removed  by  the  use  of  milk  alone. 

Great  resolution  on  the  part  of  the  patient  is  necessary,  be- 
cause, as  a  rule,  though  taken  readily  at  first,  it  soon  begins  to 
pall  upon  the  appetite,  and  a  distressing  sense  of  emptiness  is 
felt  at  the  pit  of  the  stomach.  The  mouth  becomes  pasty,  and 
the  tongue  coated  with  a  whitish  fur.  Constipation,  more  or 
less  obstinate,  is  not  unusual;  when  diarrhoea  occurs  it  is  a  sign 
that  the  milk  is  disagreeing  with  the  patient  and  peptonized 
milk  or  koumiss  may  be  tried.  Weight  is  lost  at  first,  and  the 
pulse  quickens,  the  arterial  tension  being  much  lowered.  After 
a  time,  however,  the  waste  ceases  and  the  pulse  becomes  normal. 
Weakness  is  often  experienced,  in  fact  a  certain  degree  is  usual; 
this  need  not  cause  alarm.  In  rare  cases  vertigo  and  faintness 
occur.  Usually,  however,  but  little  trouble  is  experienced. 

Four  ounces  may  be  taken  every  three  hours  at  the  com- 
mencement of  the  treatment,  the  amount  being  gradually  in- 
creased until  the  patient  can  take  all  he  or  she  can  assimilate, 
the  milk  being  slightly  warmed  and  drank  slowly.  Some  phy- 
sicians, soon  after  the  patient  has  ceased  to  lose  weight,  make 
a  gradual  change  to  a  mixed  diet;  they  commence  at  the  end  of 
the  third  week  and  gradually  increase  the  quantity  of  solid  food 
until  the  end  of  the  sixth  week,  after  which  time  a  full  mixed 
diet,  consisting  largly  of  milk,  may  be  continued  for  a  number 
of  months, 

Finely  formed  men  and  women,  having  good  teeth,  lungs, 
muscles  and  brains,  would  be  much  less  uncommon  were  the 
milk  of  the  cow,  unskimmed  and  unadulterated,  to  enter  more 
largely  into  the  dietary  of  infants,  children,  and  growing  lads 
and  lasses.  I  cannot  urge  too  strongly  the  use  in  every  house- 
hold of  pure  milk  and  Graham  bread. 

WILLIAM  GREGORY  HODSON, 

Clieinixt,  Physician  and  Journalist,  Graduate  of  Trinity  College,  Dublin. 

( Continued  on  page  32.) 
Ifiattle  oi"  «wetty*l>Bir8   Panorama  is 


25 

Chicken  Pie  Ho.  2. 

Stew  chicken  until  tender  ;  line  the  sides  of  a  deep  pie  dish  with  nice 
pastry  ;  put  in  the  chicken  and  the  water  in  which  it  was  boiled  (which  should 
be  about  a  half  pint),  season  with  a  large  piece  of  butter,  pepper  and  salt,  then 
cover  loosely  with  a  crust ;  while  this  is  baking  prepare  a  quart  of  oysters  as 
follows  :  Let  a  pint  of  E WELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK  come  to  a 
boil,  thicken  with  a  little  flour,  season  with  butter,  pepper  and  salt ;  pour 
this  over  the  oysters  boiling  hot,  and  about  fifteen  minutes  before  the  pie  is 
done,  lift  the  crust  and  pour  oysters  and  all  into  the  pie,  then  replace  in  oven 
to  finish. 

Chicken  Croquettes. 

Four  and  one-half  pounds  of  chicken  boiled  and  chopped  fine  ;  moisten  to 
a  thick  pulp  with  the  liquor  in  which  it  has  been  boiled ;  mix  with  this  a  pint 
and  a  half  of  mashed  potatoes  beaten  to  a  cream  ;  three  eggs,  one  pint 
E  WELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  one  teaspoon  of  mustard,  sweet 
majoram,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  a  little  celery  chopped  very  fine,  a  quarter 
of  a  pound  of  butter,  mould  into  forms,  dip  in  egg  and  cracker  dust,  and  fry  in 
boiling  lard. 

Croquettes. 

Take  cold  fowl  or  fresh  meat  of  any  kind  with  slices  of  ham,  chop  very 
fine;  add  half  as  much  grated  bread,  same  amount  of  mashed  potatoes;  season 
with  salt,  pepper  and  nutmeg,  one  teaspoon  of  cayenne  pepper,  one  teaspoon 
of  mustard,  and  lump  of  butter.  Mix  well  together  with  EWELL'S  X.  L. 
DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  make  up  in  little  balls,  dip  in  beaten  yolks  of 
eggs,  cover  with  grated  bread  crumbs,  and  fry  in  lard  until  brown. 

Chicken  Plates. 

Mince  chicken  that  has  previously  been  roasted  or  boiled,  and  season  well; 
stir  into  this  a  sauce  made  of  half  a  pint  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  EOT 
TLED  MILK,  into  which,  while  boiling,  a  teaspoonful  of  corn  starch  has  been 
added  to  thicken;  season  with  about  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  salt  and  pep- 
per to  taste.  Have  ready  small  paste  pans  lined  with  good  puff  paste.  Bake 
the  crust  in  a  brisk  oven,  then  fill  the  pans  and  set  in  the  oven  a  few  minutes 
to  brown  over  slightly. 

M^orced   Meat    Rails. 

Mix  with  one  pound  of  chopped  veal  or  meat  one  egg,  a  little  butter,  one 
cup  of  bread  crumbs,  the  whole  to  be  well  moistened  with  EWELL'S  X.  L. 
DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK;  season  with  salt  and  red  pepper,  make  up  in 
small  balls  and  fry  them  brown. 

Chicken  Cheese. 

Two  chickens  boiled  tender,  chop  fine  or  picked  in  small  pieces,  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste;  three  eggs  boiled  and  sliced,  line  dishes  or  moulds  with  them; 
add  to  the  chicken  and  liquor  they  were  boiled  in  three  tablespoons  EWELL'S 
X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  CREAM,  pour  in  the  moulds  the  chicken  and 
liquor;  when  cold,  slice.  Boil  in  as  little  water  as  possible. 

Chicken  Pie  No.  1. 

Boil  your  chicken  until  they  are  tender  and  season  highly,  line"  deep  pie 
plates  with  a  rich  crust,  take  the  white  meat  and  a  little  of  the  dark  off  the 
bones,  put  into  the  pie  plates;  add  to  the  gravy  a  little  flour  wet  with  four 
tablespoons  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  CREAM.  Pour  the  gravy 
over  the  chicken,  cover  with  the  crust;  bake  three-quarters  of  an  hour 

Kice  and  Chicken  Croquettes. 

One  cupful  of  boiled  rice,  one  cupful  of  finely  chopped  cooked  chicken,  one 
teaspoon  salt,  a  little  pepper,  two  tablespoons  of  butter,  half  cup  of  EWELL'S 
X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  one  egg.  Put  the  milk  on  to  boil;  add  the 
meat,  rice  and  seasoning;  when  this  boils,  add  the  egg,  well  beaten,  stir  one 
minute;  after  cooling,  dip  in  egg  and  crumbs  and  fry. 


26 

To  Choose  a  Goose. 

Be  careful  in  choosing  a  goose  that  it  is  young;  an  old  goose  is  very  poor 
fare.  If  the  skin  and  joints  are  tender  and  easily  broken,  it  is  young.  The 
bill  and  feet  of  a  young  goose  are  yellow,  in  an  old  one  they  are  red. 

To  Roast  a  Goose. 

Pick  it  clean,  cut  off  the  legs  at  the  joints,  and  singe  it  nicely  ;  wash  the  in- 
side of  the  body  with  cold  water ;  rub  it  with  a  mixture  of  salt  and  pepper  ; 
prepare  the  stuffing.  Cut  one  loaf  of  wheat  bread  in  slices,  pour  over  one 
pint  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTIED  MILK,  to  wet ;  then  add  a  tea- 
spoon of  salt,  the  same  of  pepper,  and  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  with  a 
tablespoonful  of  sage,  a  little  thyme,  if  liked.  Fill  the  body,  then  sew  up 
the  slit,  tie  the  ends  of  the  legs  together,  put  a  pint  of  water  in  the  pan  to  baste 
with  ;  have  a  steady  fire,  allow  fifteen  minutes  for  each  pound  of  meat. 

Gravy. 

If  the  gravy  is  very  fat  take  some  of  it  off  ;  put  the  pan  over  the  fire,  then 
stir  into  it  a  thin  batter  of  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  wet  with  EWELL'S  X.  L. 
DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  stir  it  until  it  is  brown  and  smooth,  and  pour  it 
through  a  strainer  into  a  gravy  tureen. 

Pigeon  Pie. 

Make  a  fine  paste  ;  lay  a  border  of  it  arotmd  a  dish,  and  cover  the  bottom 
with  a  veal  cutlet ;  season  with  salt,  cayenne  pepper  and  mace.  Prepare  as, 
many  pigeon  as  can  be  put  in  one  layer  in  the  dish  ;  put  in  each  pigeon  a  small 
lump  of  butter,  season  with  pepper  and  salt;  lay  them  in  the  dish,  breast 
downward,  cut  in  slices  half  a  dozen  hard-boiled  eggs  and  lay  in  with  the 
birds  ;  put  in  one-half  pint  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  and 
cover  the  whole  with  crust.  Bake  one  hour  and  a-half. 

Roast   Goose. 

Stuff  and  roast  in  the  same  manner  as  duck.  Cover  the  goose  with  a  paste 
of  flour  and  water,  while  baking.  Make  a  sauce  with  the  drippings  in  the 
pan  in  which  the  game  is  roasted,  thicken  the  gravy  with  brown  flour  moist- 
ened with  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK. 

Quail  on  Toast. 

Cut  the  birds  open  down  the  back,  salt  and  pepper  them,  dredge  them  with 
flour.  Break  down  the  breast  and  backbone  so  they  will  lay  flat,  place  them 
in  a  pan  with  butter  and  very  little  water  in  a  hot  oven,  covering  them  up 
tightly  until  nearly  done  ;  then  place  them  in  a  spider  in  hot  butter  and  fry 
to  a  nice  brown.  Have  ready  slices  of  baker's  bread,  toasted,  upon  a  platter, 
on  this  place  the  quail.  Make  a  sauce  in  the  pan.  thickened  lightly  with 
brown  flour  moistened  with  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  and 
pour  over  each  quail  and  the  tuast. 

Rice  Chicken. 

Place  a  full  grown  chicken  and  about  one  pound  of  pickled  pork,  with  a 
pod  of  red  pepper  and  a  bunch  of  thyme,  in  a  pot  with  water  enough  to  cover. 
When  perfectly  tender  put  the  chicken  and  pork  in  a  steamer  which  fits  the 
pot ;  wash  your  rice  and  boil  it  seventeen  minutes  in  the  water  from  which 
the  meat  was  taken  ;  make  a  gravy  tureen  full  of  drawn  butter  sauce,  to 
which  you  add  two  hard-boiled  eggs  sliced,  and  capers  ;  use  about  one  pint  of 
EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK  for  the  sauce.  When  you 
serve  place  the  rice  on  a  large  flat  dish  and  chicken  on  top. 

Duck. 

When  roasted,  use  dressing  as  for  turkeys  with  the  addition  of  a  few 
slices  of  onions.  Make  a  sauce  with  the  drippings  in  the  pan  in  which  the 
game  is  roasted,  and  to  which  are  put  the  chopped  giblets  which  are  previ- 
ously well  cooked.  Thicken  t,he  gravy  with  brown  flour  moistened  with 
EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK.  Serve  with  currant  jelly. 


Chicken  Pie  with  Sweet  Potatoes. 

Cut  up  a  chicken  and  put  it  on  to  stew  ;  and  after  it  has  boiled  for  a  while, 
add  six  medium  sized  sweet  potatoes  peeled  and  cut  in  halves.  Stew  until 
tender,  and  then  place  the  pieces  of  chicken  and  potatoes  alternately  in  a  deep 
pie  dish  lined  with  crust.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  little  onion,  and  the 
gravy  furnished  by  stewing  the  chicken  and  potato  ;  cover  with  crust  and 
bake. 

Poultry  Croquettes. 

Melt  a  small  piece  of  butter  in  a  stew  pan  ;  put  into  it  chopped  parsley 
and  mushrooms,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  flour,  salt,  pepper  and  nutmeg,  fry  it  and 
pour  in  half -pint  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  or  better, 
cream,  cut  up  any  poultry  which  has  been  cooked  the  day  before  into  dice, 
put  them  into  the  sauce  and  let  it  get  cold;  form  it  into  balls,  and  cover  them 
with  bread  crumbs,  wash  them  in  eggs  which  have  been  beaten  up,  and  roll 
them  in  bread  crumbs  second  time.  Fry  them  to  a  light  brown  ;  serve  with 
parsley. 

Wild   l>iick. 

All  wild  duck  which  have  a  fishy  taste  before  roasting  should  be  parboiled 
with  a  small  carrot  put  within  each,  which  will  absorb  the  unpleasant  taste. 
Chop  apples  fine  and  stuff  them  for  roasting,  gives  them  a  much  nicer  flavor 
than  the  ordinary  stuffing. 

Pressed  Chicken. 

Clean,  wash  and  cut  the  fowl  in  small  pieces  ;  place  them  in  a  kettle  with 
a  tight  cover ;  put  in  two  cups  of  water,  salt  and  pepper ;  let  it  cook  slowly 
until  the  meat  cleans  from  the  bones  ;  shred  all  the  meat  (freed  from  skin, 
bones  and  gristle)  about  as  for  chicken  salad,  season  well,  put  into  a  deep  dish 
and  pour  the  remnant  of  the  juice  in  which  it  was  cooked  over  it.  This  will 
be  :  jelly  when  cold  and  can  then  be  sliced  ;  it  will  not  jelly  if  too  much 
water  is  put  over.  Do  not  HL\OW  the  water  to  boil  away  entirely  while 
cooking. 

To  make  si  «ir«l's  Nest. 

Boil  some  macaroni  gently  until  it  is  quite  tender  ;  have  it  in  about  five 
inch  pieces,  and  lay  them  on  a  dish  like  a  straw  nest.  Truss  pigeons  with  the 
heads  on  (having  picked  and  clean);  turn  under  the  left  wing;  leave  the  feet 
on,  and  having  stewed  them,  arrange  them  as  in  a  nest ;  pour  the  gravy  over 
and  serve.  The  nest  may  be  made  of  bread  cut  in  pieces  the  length  and  thick- 
ness of  the  macaroni  and  fried  a  light  brown  in  hot  lard  ;  season  with  pepper 
and  salt.  Any  small  bird  may  be  stewed  and  served  in  this  way. 

*Vicassee  of  Chicken. 

Scald  and  skin,  cut  into  joints,  place  in  a  stew  pan  with  one  good  sized 
raw  onion  cut  in  slices,  a  litlle  chopped  parsley,  salt  and  pepper,  add  butter 
about  the  size  of  an  egg,  and  fill  in  a  pint  of  water  ;  cover  close  and  stew  for 
an  hour  and  half  over  a  slow  fire,  then  lift  and  strain  off  the  gravy,  into  which 
beat  gradually  a  half  pint  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  CREAM 
and  the  yolk  of  one  egg ;  heat  up  the  gravy,  but  not  boil,  and  pour  it  over  the 
fricassee. 

Roast  Prairie  Chicken. 

The  flesh  being  very  dry  should  be  either  larded,  or  better,  wide  strips  of 
bacon  or  pork  placed  over  the  breast.  A  mild  seasoning  stuffing  will  improve 
the  flavor  of  the  birds  :  dust  a  little  flour  over  them.  Baste  often. 

Curry  Chicken. 

Slice  an  onion  and  brown  in  a  little  butter  ;  add  a  teaspoonful  of  curry 
powder  ;  cover  for  a  few  minutes  to  cook  ;  add  a  little  more  butter  and  put  in 
chicken  cut  up  in  small  pieces;  thicken  with  a  little  flour.  A  good  way  to 
freshen  up  cold  chicken  or  veal.  Rice  is  excellent  with  curry  chicken. 


28 


STROUSE 


WHOLESALE  AND  RETAIL 


13 ay    City 

SAN  FRANCISCO,  CAL. 


None  font  CHOICEST  MEATS  and.  every 
variety    sold,   by 


Emilie  Hams  and  Emilie  Pare  Leaf  Lard, 


I  beg  to  call  the  attention  of  the  public  to  my  Mammoth  Refrigerator  and 
my  system  of  delivering  meats  with  Refrigerator  Wagons,  unsurpassed  for 
cleanliness,  and  giving  my  customers  the  choicest  and  best  cuts  at  cheaper 
rates  than  any  other  first-class  market  in  this  city. 


ORDERS   DELIVERED   TO   ANY   PART   OF  THE   CITY 


29 

JVleats. 

Roast  Beef. 

Prepare  for  the  oven  by  dredging  lightly  with  flour  and  seasoning  with  salt 
and  pepper  ;  place  in  the  oven  and  baste  frequently  while  roasting.  Allowing 
a  quarter  of  an  hour  for  a  pound  of  meat,  if  you  like  it  rare,  longer  if  well 
done.  Serve  with  a  sauce  made  from  the  drippings  in  the  pan,  to  which  has 
been  added  three  tablespoons  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  CREAM. 
Thicken  with  brown  flour  and  serve  in  a  gravy  boat. 

Roast  Beef  with  Yorkshire  Pudding. 

Set  a  piece  of  beef  to  roast  upon  a  grating,  or  several  sticks  laid  across  a 
dripping-pan.  (Allow  fifteen  minutes  to  a  pound.)  Three  quarters  of  an  hour 
before  it  is  done,  mix  the  pudding  and  pour  into  the  pan.  Continue  to  roast 
the  beef,  the  dripping  meanwhile  falling  upon  the  pudding  below.  When  both 
are  done  cut  the  pudding  into  squares  and  lay  around  the  meat  when  dished. 
Drain  off  most  of  the  fat  from  the  pan  before  putting  the  pudding  in. 

Recipe  for  Pudding— One  pint  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED 
MILK,  four  eggs,  whites  and  yolks,  beaten  separately  ;  two  cups  of  flour,  one 
teaspoon  salt.  Be  carefulin  mixing  not  to  get  the  batter  too  stiff. 

Yorkshire  Pudding. 

To  be  eaten  with  roast  beef  instead  of  a  vegetable:  Three  tablespoons 
flour,  mixed  with  one  pint  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK  ; 
three  eggs  and  a  little  salt.  Pour  into  a  shallow  baking  pan  ;  put  into  oven, 
an  hour  before  dinner,  for  ten  minutes  ;  then  put  it  under  the  roasting  beef 
and  leave  it  till  you  take  up  the  beef  ;  leave  it  in  about  five  minutes  after  you 
take  up  the  beef. 

Boiling. 

Before  boiling  joints  of  meat  it  should  be  decided  whether  the  juices  are 
g  o  into  the  water,  as  in  soup  and  gravies,  or  to  be  retained  in  the  meat  it- 
self. If  they  are  to  be  retained,  put  the  meat  into  fast  boiling  water,  and  let 
it  boil  for  fifteen  minutes,  and  thus  prevent  the  juice  from  escaping  ;  after,  let 
it  boil  moderately  until  done.  Care  must  be  taken  to  remove  the  scum  when 
the  water  is  on  the  point  of  boiling.  If  you  wish  to  extract  the  juice  from  raw 
meat,  cover  it  with  cold  water  and  simmer  slowly. 

Boiled  •,«>»•  of  Mutton. 

Wash  nicely  a  leg  of  mutton  ;  put  it  into  a  pot  and  cover  it  with  boiling 
water  ;  add  a  little  salt.  Allow  it  to  boil  five  minutes  ;  skim  clean  ;  let  it  boil 
slowly  until  done ;  time  two  hours  to  two  and  a  half.  Mutton  is  much  im- 
proved by  hanging  up  two  or  three  days  before  using,  four  or  five  in  cool 
weather. 

The  liqiior  from  the  boiling  may  be  converted  into  a  soup  by  adding  three 
grated  potatoes,  pepper,  seasoning  to  taste. 

Mutton  Broth  for  the  Sick. 

Boil  a  piece  of  mutton  until  it  will  fall  from  the  bones  ;  then  strain  off  the 
broth,  let  it  cool,  skim  off  the  fat ;  add  salt  and  swelled  rice  ;  cook  gently  for 
twenty  minutes. 

Curry  Mutton. 

Put  six  small  onions,  cut  fine,  and  an  ounce  of  butter  into  a  saucepan 
with  an  ounce  of  curry  powder,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  of  flour,  and  half  a 
pint  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  CREAM;  stir  until  smooth. 
Cut  two  pounds  of  mutton  into  small  pieces,  and  fry  a  light  brown;  put  the 
meat  into  a  saucepan,  pour  the  sauce  over  it  and  boil  gently  for  one  hour  and 
a  half;  place  the  meat  on  a  hot  dish,  and  arrange  a  border  of  hard  boiled  eggs, 
cut  in  thick  slices,  around  it. 

Veal  may  be  used  instead  of  mutton,  or  cold  meats,  with  less  cooking. 


30 

Roast  Veal. 

Prepare  a  leg  of  veal  for  the  oven  by  washing,  drying  and  larding  it  with 
strips  of  fat  bacon,  and  dredging  it  with  flour,  seasoning  with  pepper  and  salt; 
baste  frequently  and  serve  with  the  gravy  thickened.  A  roast  fillet  of  veal 
should  be  prepared  by  stuffing  it  with  bread  crumbs,  well  wet  with  EWELL'S 
X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  seasoned  with  chopped  ham,  summer 
savory,  salt  and  pepper. 

Shoulder  of  Veal. 

Put  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg  into  a  kettle;  put  it  on  the  stove. 
When  this  begins  to  fry,  put  in  the  veal,  season  it,  and  let  it  fry  until  done 
brown-  then  add  water  sufficient  to  cook  it.  When  done,  thicken  EWELL'S 
X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  CREAM  with  flour  and  stir  well.  Two  pounds 
of  veal  will  make  a  dinner  for  six. 

Veal  Pie. 

Three  pounds  of  lean  veal,  two  slices  of  salt  pork,  chopped  fine,  one  cup 
of  bread  crumbs,  two  eggs,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste;  mix  thoroughly  with  one- 
half  cup  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK;  bake  one  hour  and  a 
half.  Use  cold  as  a  relish. 

Veal   JLoaf. 

Three  pounds  raw  veal,  one  half  pound  raw  salt  pork  chopped  fine,  three 
Boston  crackers  rolled  fine,  three  eggs,  little  mace,  little  sage,  one  teaspoon 
black  pepper,  one  of  salt.  Make  into  a  loaf,  and  baste  while  baking,  with 
butter  the  size  of  an  egg  melted  in  a  little  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOT- 
TLED MILK.  Put  outside  of  the  loaf  a  small  quantity  of  rolled  crackers. 
Bake  three  hours.  Is  very  nice  cold,  cut  in  thin  slices. 

Filled  Veal. 

Boil  the  veal  tender,  pick  it  up  fine,  put  in  a  mould;  add  to  the  water  in 
which  it  was  boiled  a  little  flour,  well  mixed  with  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY 
BOTTLED  MILK,  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper;  a  layer  of  hard  boiled  eggs 
improves  it. 

Fricoudeau. 

Three  pounds  of  cold  roast  veal  chopped  fine,  one  teaspoon  of  salt,  one  of 
pepper,  one-half  nutmeg,  five  rolled  crackers,  three  eggs,  butter  the  size  of  an 
egg,  tablespoon  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTILED  MILK.  Form  this 
into  a  roll,  and  spot  it  over  with  bits  of  butter;  then  strew  over  it  the  pounded 
crackers,  put  in  the  oven,  and  from  time  to  time  add  a  little  water.  Cook 
slowly  for  two  hours. 

I»ate   of  Veal. 

Three  pounds  of  leg  of  veal  fat  and  lean,  chopped  fine,  seven  small  crackers 
rolled  fine,  two  eggs,  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  one  teaspoon  salt,  one 
of  pepper,  and  one  of  nutmeg,  a  slice  of  salt  pork  chopped  fine  ;  work  all  to- 
gether with  a  little  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  in  the 
form  of  a  loaf.  Bake  two  hours  ;  to  slice  when  cold. 

Veal  Cutlets  a  la  Fried  Oysters. 

Cut  the  veal  into  pieces  three  inches  square,  dry  with  a  towel,  season  to 
taste  ;  have  ready  a  beaten  egg  and  crackers  rolled  fine,  each  on  separate 
dishes  ;  dip  each  piece  of  the  cutlet  in  the  egg,  then  in  the  rolled  cracker ; 
have  enough  lard  or  butter  hot  in  your  pan  so  as  to  cover  the  cutlets.  A  rich 
gravy  can  be  made  after  the  meat  is  done  by  adding  a  little  of  EWELL'S  X. 
L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK. 

Veal  I, oaf. 

Six  Boston  crackers,  three  eggs,  one  tablespoon  of  salt,  pepper  and  sage, 
three  pounds  of  veal.  The  veal  must  be  raw  and  chopped  fine  ;  mix  all  well 
together  and  pack  it  hard  in  a  deep  pan,  bake  slowly  for  one  hour.  Two  table- 
spoons of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  CREAM  improves  it.  Nice 
for  tea,  sliced  thin  when  cold. 


31 

Sauce    'rsiristr«». 

Mince  two  pickles;  one  half  of  a  small  onion  and  a  few  sprigs  of  parsley  to- 
gether ;  add  to  this  three  tablespoon  fuls  of  mayonnaise  sauce  and  the  juice  of  a 
small  lemon.  Mix  and  serve. 

Calf's     Head    Boiled. 

Cut  up  a  prepared  calf  's  head  into  small  pieces,  place  them  in  a  saucepan 
and  cover  with  cold  water,  add  half  cup  of  vinegar  and  let  it  simmer  for  half 
an  hour,  then  place  it  in  cold  water  a  few  minutes,  dry  each  piece,  rub  sweet 
oil  on  them  and  broil,  when  done  lay  bits  of  butter  on  them  with  juice  of  half 
a  lemon. 

Sweet  Bread. 

Choose  white  sweet  breads,  put  them  in  warm  water  to  draw  out  the  blood, 
let  them  remain  one  hour,  then  put  them  in  boiling  water,  let  them  simmer  fif- 
teen minutes,  take  them  out,  drain  them,  and  dip  them  in  egg  and  then  in 
bread  crumbs,  drop  on  them  a  little  melted  butter  and  put  into  a  moderately 
heated  oven,  let  them  bake  three-quarters  of  an  hour  ;  serve  them  on  toasted 
bread  and  pour  over  a  gravy. 

Sausage. 

Seven  pounds  of  lean  fresh  pork,  three  pounds  of  fat  pork,  twelve  teaspoon  - 
fuls  of  sage  and  six  teaspoonfuls  of  pepper,  six  teaspoonfuls  of  salt  (two  of 
cloves  and  two  of  nutmeg,  if  you  prefer),  chop  very  fine  ;  mix  these  ingredi- 
ents thoroughly  and  pack  in  a  jar  and  pour  hot  lard  over  the  top. 

Breaded   Sausage. 

Wipe  the  sausage  dry,  dip  them  in  beaten  egg  and  bread  crumbs,  put 
them  in  the  frying  basket  and  plunge  into  boiling  fat ;  cook  ten  minutes,  gar- 
nish with  parsley. 

Bake   Sausage. 

Place  them  in  a  baking  pan  in  a  single  layer,  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven  ; 
turn  them  over  when  they  are  half  done,  that  they  may  brown  both  sides  ; 
send  to  the  table  with  pieces  of  toast  between  each  sausage,  cut  the  toast  about 
the  same  size  as  the  sausage  and  moisten  it  with  a  little  of  the  sausage  fat. 
They  make  a  nice  entree  by  placing  them  on  a  mound  of  mashed  potatoes, 
and  serve  with  apple  sauce. 

Oxford  Sausage. 

Take  one  pound  of  pork,  fat  and  lean,  one  pound  of  lean  veal,  and  one 
pound  of  beef  suet,  chopped  fine  together,  put  in  half  pound  bread  crumbs, 
teaspoonful  of  sage,  teaspoonful  of  pepper,  two  of  salt,  some  sweet  marjoram 
and  savory  ;  shred  fine ;  mix  thoroughly. 

Fried  Calf's  Head. 

Cut  the  prepared  calf's  head  into  two  pieces,  lay  them  for  two  hours  on  a 
pickle  made  of  two  tablespoonfuls  of  lemon  juice,  one  cup  of  water,  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste  and  a  little  mace.  Take  them  out,  drain  them,  and  dip  each 
piece  in  egg  batter  ;  roll  in  cracker  dust,  fry  in  hot  lard,  and  serve  with  sauce 
tartare. 

Calf's  Liver—Stewed. 

Boil  till  partly  done  ;  take  out  of  the  saucepan  ;  chop  in  small  pieces, 
put  back  in  saucepan,  skim  well ;  stew  until  tender  ;   season  with  butter,  pep- 
per and  salt,  thicken  with  a  little  flour  wet  with  SWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY 
ED  MILK.     Served  on  slices  of  toasted  bread. 

Calf's  1J  ver— Fried. 

Cut  in  thin  slices ;  wash  and  drain  them  ;  roll  them  in  corn  meal  and  fry 
in  fresh  or  salt  pork  gravy,  add  to  the  pan  one  tablespoon  of  flour  mixed  with 
one  cup  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK  ;  when  done  pour 
over  the  liver. 


32 

AN   INTERESTING   LETTER. 
PURE   MILK   PUT   TO  THE   TEST. 


SAN  FRANCISCO,  CAL.,  January  2,  1888. 
L.  J.  Ewell  &  Co.,  Proprietors  XL  Dairy, 

Twenty-first  and  Folsom  Sts.,  San  Francisco — 
GENTLEMEN  :  Having  obtained  samples  of  milk  from  your 
dairy  through  various  sources  for  chemical  analysis,  as 
requested  by  you,  the  same  has  been  exhaustively  examined, 
and  I  give  herein  its  chemical  constituents.  The  mere  tabu- 
lated statement  of  the  result  would  be  unintelligible,  except  to 
chemists,  without  some  practical  comparison.  That  you  may 
understand  the  more  clearly,  permit  me  to  first  present  the 
accepted  analysis  of  the  average  milk  that  is  consumed  in  the 
United  States,  according  to  the  National  Dispensatory,  by  Stille 
&  Maisch,  which  is  the  recognized  authority.  Of  course,  it 
varies  in  all  animals  according  to  the  time  that  elapsed  since 
the  birth  of  its  offspring,  but  the  average  chemical  constituents 
of  the  milk  from  the  cow  are  : 

Albuminoids 4.1 

Fat,  Butter 4.0 

Milk,  Sugar 4.2 

Salts  (chiefly  phosphates) 0.7 

Total  Solids 13.0 

Water 87.0 

Total 100.0 

A  careful  analysis  of  .the  samples  of  milk  from  your  dairy 
developed  the  following  constituents  : 

Albuminoids 5.0 

Fat,  Butter 5.1 

Milk,  Sugar 4.8 

Salts '. 0.7 

Total  Solids -  15.6 

Water 84.4 

Total 100. o 

Of  course,  it  goes  without  saying  that  as  between  two  sani- 
pies,  that  is  the  purest  and  best  milk  that  contains  the  most  of 
the  wholesome  solids  and  the  least  water.  Thus  the  advantage 
in  your  favor  from  the  above  figures  is  20  per  cent.  Your  sam- 
ple develops  one-fifth  more  solids,  and,  of  course,  proportion- 
ally less  water,  than  the  average  sample  of  pure  milk  ;  in 
other  words,  one-fifth  or  20  per  cent,  better  than  the  established 
average.  Respectfully  yours, 

EDWIN  W.  JOY, 
Practical  Analytical  Chemist. 
852  Market  street,  San  Francisco. 

Continued  on  page  4.0. 
Pacific  Bank  So  IK  Drafts   on   every  Important  City. 


33 

A  Valuable  Suggestion. 

Soak  your  ham  or  salt  pork  (cut  in  slices  for  boiling  or  frying)  in  a  quart 
of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK  over  night  for  breakfast.  The 
milk  may  be  either  fresh  or  sour. 

>i<-<>  Breakfast   Dish. 

Chopped  cold  meat  well  seasoned ;  wet  with  gravy,  put  it  on  a  platter  ; 
then  take  cold  rice  made  moist  with  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED 
MILK  and  one  egg,  season  with  pepper  and  salt ;  if  not  sufficient  rice  add 
powdered  bread  crumbs  ;  place  this  around  the  platter  quite  thick  ;  set  it  in 
the  oven  to  heat  and  brown. 

Glutton  Hash  with  Poached  Kggs. 

Take  a  pound  of  the  remains  of  roast  mutton,  chop  it  fine  and  put  it  into 
a  stewpan  with  a  cupful  of  mutton  gravy  ;  season  with  pepper  and  salt  and  » 
little  grated  nutmeg,  add  a  teaspoonful  of  flour,  and  let  the  meat  heat  grad- 
ually until  hot ;  do  not  let  it  boil ;  simmer  20  minutes  and  serve  with  poached 
eggs  placed  around  the  dish. 

Curry  Mutton. 

Put  six  small  onions,  cut  fine,  and  an  ounce  of  butter  into  a  saucepan 
with  an  ounce  of  curry  powder,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  of  flour,  and  half  a. 
pint  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  CREAM ;  stir  until  smooth,  cut 
two  pounds  up  into  small  pieces  and  fry  a  light  brown  ;  put  the  meat  into  a 
saucepan,  pour  the  sauce  over  it  and  boil  gently  one  hour  and  a  half  ;  place  the 
meat  on  a  hot  dish  and  arrange  a  border  of  hard  boiled  eggs,  cut  in  thick  slices, 
around  it.  Veal  may  be  used  instead  of  mutton,  or  cold  meats  with  less 
cooking. 

Meat  from  Soup  Hones. 

Before  putting  in  the  vegetables  take  out  a  bowl  of  the  liquor ;  take  the 
meat  from  the  bones,  chop  it  fine,  season  with  sage,  thyme,  salt  and  pepper ; 
pour  over  the  liquor,  which  should  be  thick  enough  to  jelly  when  cold,  put 
into  molds  and  serve  cold  in  slices. 

Potato  and  Beef  Hash. 

Mince  same  cold  beef,  a  little  fat  with  the  lean,  put  to  it  as  much  cold 
boiled  pototoes  as  you  like,  season  with  pepper  and  salt ;  add  as  much  gravy 
or  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK  as  will  make  it  moist,  then 
put  in  a  stew  pan  over  a  gentle  fire ;  stir  it  about  with  a  spoon,  cover  the  stew 
pan  and  let  it  simmer  for  fifteen  minutes.  Dish  it  with  or  without  a  slice  of 
toast  under  it: 

Meat  and  Potatoes. 

Mince  beef  or  mutton  small,  with  onions,  pepper  and  salt,  add  a  little 
gravy,  put  into  scollup  shells  or  small  cups,  making  them  three-quarters  full,  and 
filling  them  up  with  potato  mashed  with  a  little  cream,  put  a  little  butter  on 
the  top  and  brown  them  in  an  oven. 

A  I*ice  Way  to  Cook  a  Cheap  Steak. 

Take  two  or  three  pounds  of  cheap  beefsteak,  chop  fine ;  chop  with  it  a 
few  slices  of  corned  pork ;  season  to  taste,  add  'two  eggs,  a  cup  of  bread 
crumbs  and  a  little  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK  and  flour. 
Make  it  in  a  roll  and  bake  in  a  pan,  putting  a  little  water  in  the  bottom  of  the 
pan  as  you  would  for  a  roast.  Bake  slowly  an  hour.  Eaten  cold  or  hot. 

Spiced  Beef. 

Four  pounds  of  round  of  beef  chopped  fine  ;  take  from  it  all  fat  ;  add  to 
it  three  small  crackers  rolled  fine ;  four  eggs  ;  one  cup  of  EWELL'S  X. 
L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK  ;  one  tablespoon  ground  mace,  two  teaspoons 
of  black  pepper,  one  tablespoon  melted  butter  ;  mix  well  and  put  in  any  tin  pan 
that  it  will  just  fill,  baste  with  butter  and  water,  and  bake  two  hours  in  a  slow 
oven. 


McALESTER  &  JONES, 

REAL  ESTATE 


HOUSEBROKERS 
422  MONTGOMERY  STREET, 


San  Francisco. 


The  Best  Regulated  Office  in  the  City. 


MEN     OF     EXPERIENCE, 

Having  Studied,  the   Wants    of  Landlord   and 
Tenants*  for   TWENTY-RIVE    YEARS. 


RELIABLE,  PROMPT  and  RESPONSIBLE 

In  the  Management  of  Real  Estate. 


RENTING,   SELLING-  and    COLLECTING 

At  the   Lowest   Rates. 


35 

Beet"  Croquettes. 

Chop  fitie  some  cold  beef  ;  beat  two  eggs  and  mix  with  the  meat,  and  add 
a  little  E WELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  melted  butter,  and  salt 
and  pepper.  Make  into  rolls  and  fry. 

Beef  I,oaf. 

Three  pounds  of  beef  chopped  fine  with  one-fourth  of  a  pound  of  salt  pork, 
six  Boston  crackers  powdered  fine,  one  sheet  of  Cooper's  isinglass  dissolved  in 
a  cup  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  one  tablespoon  of  but- 
ter,  one  teaspoon  of  salt,  one  of  pepper,  one  of  cloves  ;  mix  well  together  with 
two  eggs  ;  bake  one  hour.  Very  good  cold. 

Beefsteak  :» n«f  Mushrooms. 

Put  in  a  sauce-pan  one  ounce  of  butter,  a  small  onion  chopped  fine,  a  little 
•ground  sage,  and  a  little  thyme,  and  put  it  over  the  fire  ;  when  hot  shake  in 
two  tablespoons  of  flour,  and  when  it  becomes  brown  put  in  one  gill  of 
EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  and  let  it  simmer  for  half  an 
hour.  Then  add  three  tablespoons  of  beef  stock,  a  little  salt,  a  little  nutmeg 
and  one  wine  glass  of  sherry  wine.  Put  in  one  can  of  mushrooms,  let  it  boil 
for  tea  minutes.  Pour  this  over  a  nicely  broiled  beefsteak. 

A  I, si  Mode  Beet*. 

Take  a  piece  of  beef  four  or  five  inches  thick,  and  with  a  small  knife  make 
holes  entirely  through  it  small  distances  apart.  Then  take  strips  of  fat  pork, 
roll  them  in  pepper  and  cloves.  Lay  them  on  a  pan,  cover  closely,  and  put 
over  in  a  steamer  and  steam  for  three  hours.  When  done  thicken  the  gravy 
in  the  pan  with  a  little  flour  wet  with  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED 
MILK. 

Scotch  Hash. 

Cut  one-half  pound  cold  meat  into  thin  slices  ;  melt  one-half  ounce  drip- 
ping in  a  stew  pan  ;  remove  it  from  the  fire  ;  add  one  large  teaspoonful  flour 
and  mix  well ;  pour  in  gradually  one-half  pint  water,  stirring  till  smooth  ;  add 
one  large  tablespoonful  ketchup,  one-half  teaspoonful  vinegar,  one  pinch  pep- 
per, one-fourth  teaspoonful  salt,  and  a  sprig  ot'  herb ;  boil  for  three  minutes, 
stirring.  Let  the  sauce  cool,  remove  the  sprig  of  herb,  place  the  meat  in  the 
sauce,  simmer  for  about  ten  minutes.  Do  not  let  it  boil ;  serve  hot  with  toast- 
ed bread. 

Stewed  Beef. 

Cleanse,  prepare  and  slice  one-half  carrot  and  one-half  turnip ;  skin,  scald 
and  slice  the  onion.  Brown  one  half  pound  beef  in  a  stew-pan,  then  brown 
slightly  the  vegetables.  Pour  away  the  dripping  that  you  have  browned  the 
beef  and  vegetables  in  ;  add  one  pint  warm  water  and  a  dessertspoonful  of 
ketchup  to  the  beef  and  vegetables  ;  take  one-half  ounce  flour  with  a  little 
water,  stir  it  smoothly.  Simmer  with  the  lid  on  for  an  hour  or  more,  but 
do  not  boil ;  stir  frequently.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper. 

Stewed  Kidneys. 

Cut  two  sheep's  kidneys  into  small  pieces,  removing  all  the  fat ;  place 
them  in  stew-pan  with  about  a  quart  of  cold  water  ;  stew  slowly  till  tender, 
about  three  hours  ;  melt  one-half  ounce  dripping  in  pan  and  stir  in  one-half 
ounce  flour;  add  some  of  the  liquor  gradually,  stir  till  quite  smooth.  Add  this 
with  a  little  pepper  and  salt  to  the  stewed  kidneys  a  quarter  of  an  hour  before 
they  are  ready. 

"  Kerosene  oil  will  kill  ants. 
For  cleaning  knives  or  forks  \\se  a  raw  cut  potato  and  brick  dust." 

USE   THE   BEST  OF   EVERYTHING, 

THE  BEST  IS  THE  CHEAPEST. 


36 

A.    T.    GREEN, 


BROKER  <    REAL  ESTATE, 


No.  413  MONTGOMERY  STREET, 

SAN     FRANCISCO. 


Buys  and  Sells  Real  Estate  on  Commission 

Negotiates  Iioans,  Affects  Insurance. 
RENTS  HOUSES— COLLECTS  RENTS. 


TAKES  FULL  CHARGE  OF  PROPERTY 

FOR  ABSENTEES    OB    OTHERS. 

Stewed  Tripe. 

Soak  a  pound  of  tripe  all  night  in  cold  water;  next  day  wash  it  in  warm 
water  with  a  piece  of  soda  in  it  the  size  of  a  pea,  but  do  not  let  it  soak  in  this, 
as  the  soda  will  harden  the  tripe.  Place  the  tripe  in  plenty  of  cold  water  and 
boil.  If  the  water  has  not  a  pleasant  smell  put  in  fresh  water  and  boil  again 
Simmer  gently  for  about  six  hours.  Skin  and  scald  two  onions;  add  them  one' 
hour  before  the  tripe  is  ready;  mix  one  ounce  of  flour  with  half  a  pint  of  EW- 
ELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK;  add  half  a  pint  of  the  liquor  the  tripe 
has  been  boiled  in;  boil  five  minutes,  chop  the  onions,  c\it  the  tripe  into  neat 
pieces,  add  to  it  the  sauce  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  serve. 

Sausage  Pudding. 

Make  into  three  round  balls  two  pounds  of  sausages.  Parboil  for  a  minute 
in  hot  water,  then  throw  them  into  cold  water  and  afterwards  remove  the 
skins.  Line  the  pudding  basin  with  suet  paste,  fill  it  with  the  sausages,  and 
pour  upon  them  the  following  preparation:  Chop  one  onion  and  three  sage 
leaves;  boil  these  three  minutes  in  water,  drain  them  upon  a  seive,  and  then 
fry  them  in  butter.  As  soon  as  light  brown  add  a  tablespoon  of  flour  and  a  tea- 
cupful  curry  paste,  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  moisten  with  half  a  pint 
good  broth.  Stir  the  sauce  upon  the  fire,  and  when  boiled  fifteen  minutes  rub 
it  through  a  sieve,  and  use  it  as  above  directed.  Cover  the  pudding  with  paste, 
bake  for  two  hours,  and  send  to  table  with  plain  gravy  under  it. 

Cheap  Meat  Pie. 

Cut  one-half  pound  cold  meat  into  thin  slices.  Skin,  scald  and  slice  two 
small  onions,  and  brown  them  slightly  with  half  an  ounce  of  dripping;  pour 
away  the  dripping,  one  teaspoonful  flour  with  a  little  water,  add  it  with  the 
rest  of  the  water,  one  teacupful;  also  a  sprig  of  herb,  a  little  salt  and  pepper 
to  the  onions.  Simmer  till  onions  are  tender,  stirring  to  prevent  flour  stick- 
ing to  the  pan.  Remove  the  sprig  and  let  the  sauce  cool.  Pour  it  into  a  pie 
dish;  place  the  pieces  of  meat  in  it.  Mash  one  pound  cold  potatoes,  add  half 
ounce  dripping  and  one  tablespoon  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED 
MILK  to  them;  lay  the  potatoes  smoothly  on  top  of  the  meat.  Put  the  pie  in, 
the  oven  to  brown. 


37 

Beeswax  and  salt  will  make  rusty  flatirons  as  clean  and  smooth  as  glass. 
Tie  a  lump  of  wax  in  a  rag,  and  keep  it  for  that  purpose.  When  the  irons  are 
hot,  rub  them  first  with  the  wax  rag,  then  scour  with  a  paper  or  cloth  sprin- 
'kled  with  salt. 

Veal    and    Ham  Pie. 

Trim  the  veal  and  ham  into  scollops  and  season  with  pepper  and  salt. 
Chop  a  handful  of  mushrooms  and  some  parsley  very  fine  and  put  them  in 
stewpan  with  a  small  pat  of  butter  and  one  shallot  chopped  fine  ;  fry  these 
lightly,  then  add  pint  of  good  stock.  Boil  the  whole  five  minutes  and  pour  in  the 
pie.  Place  six  yolks  of  eggs,  boiled  hard,  in  the  cavities,  cover  with  puff  paste, 
bake  the  pie  for  an  hour  and  a  half  and  serve. 

Kate's  Stew. 

Cut  sciaps  of  cold  meat  into  small  bits,  add  a  little  water,  pepper,  salt, 
butter,  onion  or  sage,  and  stew  it  awhile.  Do  not  get  it  too  juicy. 

Wilmington  Stew. 

ChopTfine  bits  of  cold  meat,  add  a  little  water,  pepper,  salt  and  butter, 
and  just  before  removing  from  fire,  add  half  a  can  of  stewed  tomatoes.  Boil  a 
few  minutes  longer,  then  pour  over  toast. 

Stew   I.oal', 

Take'your  scraps  of  cold  meat,  chop  very  fine,  add  pepper,  salt,  one  egg 
well  beaten,  a  cracker  rolled  fine,  and  a  little  sage.  Press  into  a  loaf  and  brown 
in  slow  oven.  Very  nire  for  sandwiches. 

Heat  Cakes. 

Hash  any  kind  of  cold  meats  fine,  season  with  pepper,  salt,  sage ;  add 
mashed  potato  and  an  egg.  Have  crackers  rolled  fine  and  roll  the  meat,  made 
in  flat  cakes,  in  the  cracker.  Fry  in  butter. 

Beefsteak  and   Oyster  Pie. 

Cut  three  pounds  of  rump  steaks  into  large  scallops,  fry  them  quickly 
over  a  very  brisk  fire,  so  as  to  brown  them  before  they  are  half  done  ;  then 
place  them  on  the  bottom  of  the  dish,  leaving  the  center  open  in  two  succes- 
sive layers ;  fill  the  center  with  four  dozen  oysters  prrviously  parboiled  and 
breaded,  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  pour  the  following  preparation 
over  the  whole  :  when  the  scallops  of  beef  have  been  fried  in  a  frying  pan, 
pour  nearly  all  the  grease  out  and  shake  a  tablespooiiful  of  tlour  into  it,  stir 
tHis  over  the  fire  for  one  minute,  and  then  add  a  pint  of  good  gravy,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  mushroom  catsup  and  an  equal  quanty  of  Harvey  sauce  and  the 
liquor  from  the  oysters.  Stir  the  whole  over  the  fire  and  keep  it  boiling  for  a 
quarter  of  an  ho'ar.  Half  an  hour  after  this  sauce  has  been  poured  in  the  pie 
cover  it  with  puff  paste  in  the  usual  way;  bake  it  an  hour  and  a-half,  then  serve. . 

English    II  u  1 1  «>n    Pie. 

Remove  the  scrag  and  the  spine  bone  from  a  neck  of  mutton,  shorten 
the  ribs  to  about  three  inches  and  use  these  trimmings  to  make  some  gravy  for 
the  pie.  Next  cut  the  mutton  into  neat  chops,  pare  off  the  superfluous  fat, 
•season  them  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  place  them  in  the  dish  in  circular  or- 
•der,  one  resting  upon  another,  in  the  same  way  cutlets  are  dished  up;  fill  the 
center  with  small  new  potatoes,  boil  the  mutton  stock  down  to  the  quantity 
required  to  nearly  fill  up  the  dish,  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  cover  with 
puff  paste,  bake  the  pie  an  hour  and  a-half,  and  serve. 

EWEI^'S  X.  ¥„.  DAIRY   BOXTI.EO  MIJLK, 

PUREST  AND  BEST  IN  THE  WORLD. 


38 


Dickey's  Ci*eme  de  liis 


This  admirable  preparation 
improves  and  preserves  the  cu- 
ticle to  a  degree  which  is  abso- 
lutely astonishing.  Society  la- 
dies, who  take  a  proper  degree 
of  pride  in  their  personal  ap- 
pearance, use  it  exclusively, 
and  the  dressing  table  of  no- 
boudoir  can  be  considered  com- 
plete if  Dickey's  Creme  de  Lis. 
is  not  found  on  it.  Its  con- 
stant use  will  render  any  skin 
soft  and  beautiful. 


Sold  toy  all 


WM.  T.  WENZELL  &  CO., 
ANALYTICAL,  CONSULTING  AND  MANUFACTURING  CHEMISTS. 

Careful  Analysis,  Qualitative  and  Quantitative,  Made  of  Ores,  Metals,  Oils,. 

Waters,  Foods,  Medicines,  Poisons,  Etc. 
OFFICE  AND  LABORATORY     ...     -    No.  153  GROVE  STREET. 

SAN  FRANCISCO,  CAL.,  Oct.,  23d,  1889. 
MESSRS.  EWELL  &  Co.,  SAN  FRANCISCO  : 

Gentlemen  —  I  have  made  a  careful  chemical  analysis  of  your  milk,  and  have 
visited  your  dairy  in  San  Mateo  county.  I  have  also  investigated  your 
methods  for  supplying  fresh  and  pure  milk  to  your  customers,  and  can  affirm 
that  I  commend  your  idea  of  bottling  your  milk  immediately  after  its  removal 
from,  the  cows,  and  then  put  into  bottles,  thoroughly  cleansed  with  boiling 
water,  in  order  to  secure  the  destruction  of  organic  germs.  I  find  that  your 
milk,  at  ordinary  temperature  and  atmospheric  conditions,  still  retains  its 
amphioteric  reaction  on  litmus  paper  for  fully  36  hours,  showing  the  value  of 
your  method  in  securing  and  retaining  the  characters  of  unchanged  and  fresh 
milk  during  this  period. 

I  would  further  state  that  I  have  used  your  bottled  milk  in  my  family  during 
the  past  two  years  with  perfect  satisfaction. 

The  following  is  the  result  of  my  analysis  of  an  average  sample,  which  proves 
that  it  is  fully  up  to  the  standard  of  a  pure  article  : 
Butter  Fat  .........................................................   4.19 

Casein  .............................................................   3.98 

Sugar  of  Milk  ......................................................   3.81 

Salts  (chiefly  phosphates)  ..........................  ..................  65 

Albumen  .  .  .77 


Total  solids 13.40 

Water..  ..86.60- 


Respectfully  submitted, 


100.0& 
W.  T.  WENZELL. 


39 

Sauces  foi*  ]^eat,  Etc. 

I>rawn  Butter. 

Drawn  butter  forms  the  basis  of  most  sauces.  From  this  argreat  variety 
may  be  made,  by  adding  to  this  different  flavors.  A  good  standard  receipt  for 
drawn  butter  is  as  follows  :  Rub  one  tablespoon  of  flour  with  one-quarter  of 
pound  of  butter ;  when  well  mixed,  put  in  a  saucepan  with  a  pint  of 
EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK;  set  it  in  a  dish  of  boiling  water, 
shaking  it  well  until  the  butter  melts  and  is  nearly  boiling.  If  set  directly  on 
the  stove  or  over  the  coals,  makes  the  butter  oily  and  spoils  it, 

I*arsely  Sauce. 

One  tablespoon  of  butter,  one  teaspoon  of  flour,  rubbed  together ;  one 
tablespoon  parsely,  first  boiled  five  minutes  in  water  and  squeezed  out,  two 
cupfuls  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK.  Shake  over  a  clear 
fire,  one  way,  until  it  boils  ;  add  the  parsely  gradually. 

To  Brow  HI  Flour  for  Sauces. 

Take  some  flour  into  a  pan  and  set  it  over  coals,  stir  it  continually  about 
that  it  may  not  burn,  but  nicely  browned.  Keep  it  in  a  dredging  box  for 
browning  gravies. 

To  Make  Drawn  Butter. 

Put  half  a  pint  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK  in  a  stew- 
pan,  and  set  it  over  a  moderate  fire  ;  put  into  a  bowl  a  heaping  teaspoonful  of 
flour,  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  little  salt ;  work  these  well  together  with 
the  back  of  a  spoon  ;  then  pour  into  it,  stirring  it  all  the  the  time,  half  a  pint 
of  boiling  water  ;  when  it  is  smooth,  stir  it  into  the  boiling  milk  ;  let  it  simmer 
for  five  minutes. 

Parsley  Sauce. 

Put  one  pint  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK  in  a  stew-pan, 
and  set  it  over  a  moderate  fire  ;  rub  together  one  tablespoonful  of  wheat  flour 
and  two  of  butter  ;  then  pour  into  it  a  little  boiling  water,  stirring  all  the  time  ; 
when  it  is  smooth  stir  it  into  the  boiling  milk  ;  cut  a  bunch  of  parsley  very 
fine,  and  stir  into  drawn  butter  a  few  minutes  before  taking  up. 

Ulint  Sauce. 

Mix  one  tablespoon  of  white  sugar  to  half  a  teacup  of  vinegar  ;  add  two 
tablespoons  green  mint,  cut  fine  ;  let  it  infuse  for  half  anNhour  in  a  cool  place 
before  sending  to  the  table.  Serve  with  roast  lamb  or  mutton. 

Celery  Sauce. 

Mix  two  tablespoons  of  flour  with  half  a  cut  of  butter;  have  ready  a  pint  of 
EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  boiling  ;  stir  the  flour  and  butter 
into  the  milk ;  take  three  heads  of  celery,  cut  into  small  bits,  and  boil  for  a 
few  minutes  in  water,  which  strain  off;  put  the  celery  into  the  melted  butter, 
and  keep  it  stirred  over  the  fire  for  ten  minutes.  Nice  with  boiled  fowl  or 
turkey. 

Cream  Sauce. 

Cream  together  a  large  tablespoon  of  butter  with  a  little  flour,  and  put  over 
a  gentle  heat  ;  add  a  little  chopped  parsley,  a  little  grated  onion,  pepper,  salt 
and  nutmeg  ;  when  these  ingredients  are  well  mixed,  add  a  pint  of  EWELL'S 
X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  CREAM  ;  let  it  boil  for  fifteen  minutes. 

Cream  Sauce* 

Put  in  a  saucepan  one  pint  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK, 

set  it  over  a  moderate  fire  ;  cream  together  a  large  tablespoon  of  butter  and 
one  of  flour  ;  add  a  little  chopped  parsely,  a  little  grated  onion,  pepper,  salt ; 
mix  well  together,  and  stir  them  into  the  milk  ;  cook  ten  minutes.  If  used  for 
fish,  add  a  little  horse  radish. 


40 

milk. 

HOW   TO  TEST   IT. 

The  importance  of  knowing,  absolutely,  that  you  are  getting 
pure  milk,  is  not  appreciated  as  it  should  be  by  the  citizens  of 
San  Francisco.  For  the  sake  of  fifty  cents  per  month,  many 
families  are  taking  milk  that  is  very  nearly  half  water,  to 
say  nothing  of  the  vile  compounds  that  are  frequently  sold  to 
cheap  restaurants  for  milk,  that  have  little  of  the  elements  of 
milk  about  them.  The  Head  of  a  family,  that  daily  spends  from 
ten  to  fifty  cents  for  cigars  or  liquor,  insists  upon  his  wife,  taking 
milk  of  poor  quality,  to  save  fifty  cents  per  month  ;  thereby 
robbing  his  children  of  proper  nourishment,  if  not  entirely 
disgusting  them  with  the  use  of  milk  as  a  beverage  :  for  a  pint 
of  the  EWELL  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK  will  make 
a  quart  of  as  good  milk,  as  is  regularly  served  to  many  families. 
Why,  then,  is  it  not  of  sufficient  interest  to  find  out  absolutely 
what  you  are  buying  ?  The  politicians  cry  out  for  a  Milk 
Inspector,  to  make  a  place  for  another  lamb !  We  assert  that 
there  is  really  no  need  for  any  such  official,  as  any  one  can  test 
their  milk  at  any  time,  at  an  expense  of  ten  cents.  The  lacto- 
meter, that  would  ordinarily  be  used  by  a  milk  inspector,  could 
not  be  near  so  efficacious  as  the  following  test,  as  skimmed  milk 
shows  a  greater  density  than  fresh  milk,  from  which  the  cream 
has  not  been  taken. 

At  the  risk  of  being  somewhat  verbose,  yet  to  make  it  so 
perfectly  plain,  and  easy  to  tell,  to  a  certainty,  the  quality  of 
the  milk  you  are  paying  for,  that  the  simplest  person  cannot 
be  mistaken  if  they  will  only  take  the  trouble  to  follow  these 
directions  : 

In  the  first  place,  it  is  necessary  to  have  a  standard  to  go  by, 
without  which  you  could  hardly  compare  fair  to  good   milk, 
with  the  VERY  BEST  that  can  be  produced.      That  standard  we 
Continued  on  page  4.8. 

Pacific  Bank  Nells  l>raf*ts  on  every  Important  City. 


41 

Oyster  Sauce. 

Take  oysters  out  of  their  liquor  and  throw  them  into  cold  water  ;  put  the 
liquor  over  the  fire  and  boil  with  a  bit  of  mace  and  lemon  peel ;  then  strain 
the  liquor  ;  drain  the  oysters  and  put  them  with  the  strained  liquor  into  a 
saucepan,  with  sufficient  butter  and  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED 
MILK  for  your  sauce;  dust  into  this  flour  ;  let  it  boil  up  ;  add  a  little  lemon 
juice  and  serve  hot. 

Onion  Sauce* 

Boil  three  or  four  white  onions  until  they  are  tender,  and  then  mince  them 
fine  :  put  one  pint  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK  over  to 
boil  ;  add  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  little  salt  and  pepper;  stir  in 
the  minced  onion  and  a  tablespoon  of  flour  which  has  been  moistened  with 
water ;  let  it  cook  in  boiling  water. 

Oyster  Sauce. 

Put  half  a  pint  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK  into  a  stew- 
pan,  set  it  over  a  fire  ;  mix  a  tablespoon  of  flour  with  two  of  butter ;  when  the 
milk  has  boiled  put  to  it  a  pint  of  small  oysters,  then  pour  into  the  butter  and 
flour  half  a  pint  of  boiling  water,  stirring  until  smooth  ;  then  add  to  the  milk  ; 
season  with  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

Milk  should  always  be  drank  slowly. 

Sour  Sauce. 

Make  half  a  pint  of  vinegar  hot,  stir  into  it  half  a  cup  of  fresh  butter,  add 
a  teaspoon  of  made  mustard  and  a  little  pepper,  and  serve  with  boiled  lobster 
or  fish. 

EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK  good  for  babies. 

^SS  Sauce. 

Take  the  yolks  of  two  hard  boiled  eggs,  mash  them  with  a  teaspoon  of 
mustard,  a  little  salt  and  pepper,  then  add  tablespoon  of  vinegar  and  three  of 
EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  CREAM.  Nice  for  boiled  fish. 

Fish    Sauce. 

Put  a  pint  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK  into  a  saucepan 
over  a  steady  fire,  one  heaping  teaspoon  of  flour,  three  of  butter,  a  little  salt 
and  pepper  ;  work  these  well  together  with  a  little  water,  then  stir  into  the 
milk  ;  when  done  add  two  tablespoons  of  salad  dressing. 

Fish    Sauce. 

One  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  one  tablespoon  of  finely  chopped  pars- 
ley, a  little  salt  and  pepper  and  the  juice  of  two  lemons ;  cream  the  butter, 
mix  well  together,  add  a  teaspoon  of  mayonaise. 

Cranherry   Sauce. 

Wash  and  pick  a  quart  of  cranberries  and  put  in  saucepan  with  about  half 
a,  pint  of  water ;  stew  slowly,  stirring  often.  Cook  about  twenty  minutes, 
then  sweeten  with  white  sugar. 

Peach  Sauce.  * 

Soak  for  about  five  hours  a  quart  of  dried  peaches  in  water.  Wash  them, 
drain,  and  put  into  saucepan  with  enough  water  to  cover  them.  Stew  until 
perfectly  tender.  Rub  to  a  pulp  and  sweeten. 

Are  you  going  far  ? 

Only  out  on  the  Folsom  Street  car, 

To  get  a  bottle  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK. 

Depot,  corner  Twenty-first  and  Folsom  streets. 


42 

Horse  Radish. 

Scrape  or  grind,  cover  with  vinegar,  and  keep  in  wide-mouthed  bottle, 
Eat  with  roast  beef. 

Oyster  Catsup. 

Chop  one  quart  oysters  and  boil  in  their  own  liquor  with  a  teacupful  of 
vinegar,  skimming  the  scum  as  it  rises.  Boil  three  minutes,  strain,  return  the 
liquor  to  the  fire,  add  a  teacupful  of  sherry,  one  teaspoon  pepper,  one  table- 
spoon salt,  one  teaspoon  mace.  Boil  fifteen  minutes,  and  when  cold  bottle  for 
use,  sealing  the  corks. 

Caper  Sauce. 

Stir  in  two  tablespoonsful  of  pickled  capers  to  drawn  butter  sauce. 
Nice  for  boiled  leg  of  mutton  or  lamb. 

Chile  Sauce. 

Twelve  large  ripe  tomatoes,  two  onions,  four  greeu  peppers,  onetablepoonful 
salt,  four  tablespoons  sugar,  and  two  teacups  vinegar;  chop  the  onions  and 
pepper  fine,  and  put  all  together  in  a  kettle,  and  let  them  simmer  about  two 
hours. 

Horse  Radish  Sauce. 

Four  tablespoons  grated  horse  radish,  one  teaspoon  sugar,  one  teaspoonful 
salt,  one-half  teaspoon  pepper,  two  teaspoons  mixed  mustard  ;  mix  the  horse 
radish  well  with  the  sugar,  salt,  pepper  and  mustard ;  moisten  with  sufficient 
vinegar  to  give  it  the  consistency  of  cream  ;  add  three  or  four  tablespoons  of 
EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  CREAM. 

Currant  Catsup  No.  1. 

Five  and  three-quarter  pounds  currants,  mashed,  four  pounds  brown 
sugar,  one  tablespoon  ground  cloves,  one  teaspoon  cinnamon,  one  tablespoon 
allspice,  half  a  nutmeg,  half  a  pint  currant  juice,  extra  scant  half  pint  vinegar; 
boil  slowly  one  hour,  stirring  often.  Put  in  bottles  and  seal  when  cold. 

What  is  that,  which,  cold  or  hot, 

Always  goes  to  the  right  spot  ? 

EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK. 

Currant  Catsup  No.  3. 

Four  and  a  half  pounds  currants,  one  pint  vinegar,  one  pound  sugar,  one 
tablespoon  cinnamon,  one  teaspoon  cloves  ;  stew  the  currants  and  vinegar  to- 
gether, add  sugar  and  spices  and  boil. 

Salt  fish  are  quickest  and  best  freshened  by  soaking  in  sour  milk. 

Clean  rain  water  and  soda  will  remove  machine  grease  from  washable 
fabrics. 

Melted  Butter. 

Melt  an  ounce  of  butter  in  a  stewpan,  then  add  half  an  ounce  of  flour. 
Stir  it  quite  smooth  over  the  fire,  and  pour  in  by  degrees  one-half  pint  of 
water.  Stir  till  it  thickens,  then  move  it  to  the  side  of  the  fire. 

Cucumber  Catsup. 

Pare  and  grate  three  large  cucumbers,  also  one  common-sized  onion  j 
strain  the  juice  of  the  cucumbers  and  mix  them  ;  add  one  tablespoon  salt, 
same  of  pepper,  same  of  horse  radish,  and  one  teacup  vinegar  ;  no  cooking. 
Put  up  iu  bottles. 

EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK  can  always  be  found  corner 
Twenty-first  and  Folsom  streets,  City  and  County  of  San  Francisco,  State  of 
California. 


USE  KWKIJL'S  X.   I,.   I>AIRY  BOTTLED  91ILK, 

PUREST  AND  BEST  IN  THE  WORLD. 


43 

Bread  Sauce. 

Soak  one  and  a-half  ounces  bread  crumbs  in  half  pint  of  EWELL'S  X.  L. 
DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK  a  quarter  of  an  hour.  Boil  fifteen  minutes  with  an 
onion;  put  in  also  six  pepper  corns  and  a  little  salt.  Serve  after  picking  out 
onion  and  pepper  corns. 

Tomato  Catsup. 

Two  gallons  tomatoes,  boiled  and  strained,  one  quart  vinegar,  six  and 
a  half  tablespoons  salt,  one  teaspoon  red  pepper,  two  tablespoons  black  pep- 
per, four  teaspoons  allspice,  one  tablespoon  cloves,  three  tablespoons  mustard; 
boil  nearly  five  hours. 

Onion  Sauce. 

Parboil  the  onions,  strain,  cover  them  with  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOT- 
TLED MILK  and  boil  gently  half  an  hour;  strain  the  milk  off,  chop  the  onions 
fine;  put  three-fourths  of  an  ounce  of  butter  in  saucepan;  when  melted  stir 
in  half  ounce  of  flour;  add  gradually  the  milk;  stir  till  it  thickens;  then  add 
onions  and  let  it  boil. 

To  soften  boots  or  shoes  which  have  been  hardened  by  water,  use  kero- 
sene. 

«> 

Rust  may  be  removed  by  rubbing  the  article  with  sweet  oil,  let  it  remain 
over  night  aud  then  polish  with  powdered,  unslacked  lime. 

Apple  Sauce. 

Pare  six  apples,  quarter,  core  them;  put  them  in  saucepan  with  a  little 
water,  and  sugar  to  taste.  Boil  gently  till  reduced,  to  a  smooth  pulp;  stir 
frequently. 

Mustard  Sauce. 

One  tablespoon  sugar,  half  teaspoonful  made  mustard,  two  tablespoons 
vinegar. 

EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK  challenges  inspection  and 
thorough  trial.  It  cannot  be  equaled. 

Brown  Sauce. 

Mix  together  one  tablespoon  moist  sugar,  two  of  vinegar  and  three  of 
salad  oil,  a  teaspoonful  of  mixed  mustard,  some  pepper  and  salt.  Serve  at 
once. 

Plain  White  Sauce. 

One  ounce  flour,  half  pint  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK, 
one  teaspoon  sugar.  Beat  the  flour  gradually  with  the  milk;  stir  over  the 
fire  till  it  boils,  add  the  sugar;  boil  for  three  minutes. 

Butter  Sauce  for  Asparagus. 

Take  two  ounces  fresh  butter  with  some  grated  nutmeg  and  pepper;  add 
to  these  two  ounces  sifted  flour;  knead  well  together,  and  moisten  with  a  half 
pint  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK.  Boil  for  about  fifteen 
minutes.  Flavor  with  a  little  lemon  juice  and  a  pinch  of  salt. 

A  few  slices  of  raw  potatoe  will  clarify  fat. 

Iron  stains  are  removable  by  lemon  juice  or  oxalic  acid,  the  latter  being 
used  only  on  white  goods,  which  mu«t  be  washed  out  at  once. 


USE   EWEIJL.'S   X.   I,.   I>AIKV   BOTTt,El>    till, 14, 

PUREST   AND    BEST    IN    THE   WORLD. 


JULIUS  JACOBS. 
(   GEO.  EASTON. 
VJAS.  N.  BROWN. 

E.  P.  FARNSWORTH, 


FRANC 


f  0.^0^  2 130. 


PACIFIC  DEPARTMENT  OF 


Springfield  of  Mass. .    .Assets  $3,200,141  88 

Glens  Falls  of  N.  Y. .  .  "  1,745,630  54 

NewHampshireofN.H.  "  1,505,10100 

German  of  Freeport "  2,386,093  00 

Merchants  of  Newark.  .  "  1,550,678  26 

United  States  of  N.  Y.  "  666,178  18 

Concordia  of  Wisconsin.  "  581,38600 

Union  of  Penn "  796,542  00 

Citizens  of  St.  Louis. .  .  "  439,324  00 

Buffalo-German "  1,332,377  00 


Surplus  $1,867,992  38 
1,168,402  00 
905,101  00 
601,152  00 
951,706  11 
513,902  39 
244,496  00 
462,318  00 
389,988  00 
997,206  69 


LOCAL  AGENTS  FOR 

Ins. Co.  of  NorthAmerica.Assets  $8,696,957  00  Surplus  $5,638,907  00 

Imperial  of  London '•     10,044,63600         "         7,504,36900 

Prussian  Nat'n'l  of  Stettin     "       3,204,96500         "        2,671,51000 


JflCOBS  £  EflSTOfi, 


AGENTS, 


423  California  Street, 


San  Francisco,  Cal. 


45 

l-.ob.stei-  Sauce. 

Pick  the  meat  from  a  cold  boiled  lobster,  chop  it  very  fine,  season  with 
pepper,  mace  and  salt,  and  stir  it  into  a  teacupful  of  drawn  butter.  Add  a 
little  of  SWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  and  simmer  the  whole 
a  few  minutes,  without  boiling.  Also  add  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon. 

Mushroom  Sauce. 

Stew  a  teacupful  mushrooms  in  barely  enough  water  to  cover  them  until 
tender.  Drain  and  add  one  and  one-fourth  teacupful  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY 
BOTTLED  CREAM,  four  and  a  half  tablespoons  of  butter  and  pepper  and  salt. 
Stir  until  it  thickens,  then  add  a  little  flour,  wet  in  cold  milk,  boil  up  and 
serve. 

Babies  good  tempered  cannot  be, 

Though  loving  care  be  taken, 
If  from  drinking  doctored  milk 

Their  digestive  organs  are  shaken. 
But  if  you  want  a  healthy  babe 

With  cheeks  like  roses  red, 
Let  it  quite  often  in  each  day 
On  EWELL'S  MILK  be  fed. 


Salad. 


Chicken 

Take  a  fine  white  bunch  of  celery,  four  heads,  scrape  and  wash  it,  reserve 
the  delicate  green  leaves,  shreds  the  white  part  like  straws;  lay  this  in  a  glass 
dish  in  the  form  of  a  nest,  mince  all  the  white  meat  of  a  boiled  fowl  without 
the  skin,  and  put  it  in  the  nest,  making  a  salad  dressing  thus:  Rub  the  yolks 
of  two  hard  boiled  eggs  to  a  smooth  paste  with  a  tablespoon  of  salad  oil,  add 
to  it  two  teaspoonfuls  of  mustard,  a  teaspoon  of  fine  sugar,  a  large  cup  of 
strong  vinegar,  four  tablespoons  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED 
MILK.  Make  a  wreath  of  the  most  delicate  leaves  of  the  celery  around  the 
edge  of  the  nest.  Pour  the  dressing  over  the  chicken  when  ready  to  serve. 

Suggestion. 

White  heart  lettuce  may  be  used  for  the  nest  instead  of  celery.  EWELL'S 
X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK  good  for  babies. 

Suggestion. 

An  old  fowl  is  fit  for  nothing  but  soup.  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOT- 
TLED MILK  cures  dyspepsia. 

Valuable  Suggestion. 

Chicken  for  salad  should  boil  until  it  parts  easily  from  the  bone.  It  is  always 
better  to  shred  it  than  to  cut  or  chop.  Equal  parts  of  butter  and  salad  oil  are 
by  many  preferred  to  the  entire  quantity  of  either.  Many  use  EWELL'S  X. 
L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  CREAM  instead.  The  addition  of  the  liquor  in  which 
the  fowl  is  boiled  is  a  great  improvement  to  moisten  the  salad  with. 

Turkey. 

To  choose  a  turkey,  a  hen  turkey  is  more  plump  and  round,  and  is  best 
for  boiling.  Be  sure  and  choose  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK. 

Chicken  Salad. 

Three  chickens  chopped  fine,  both  light  and  dark  meat,  juice  of  two 
lemons,  eight  eggs  boiled  hard,  the  whites  chop  fine  and  the  yolks  mashed  fine; 
moisten  with  six  teaspoons  of  melted  butter,  two  of  sweet  oil,  to  which  add 
one  tablespoon  of  mustard,  one  of  pepper,  one  of  salt,  one  of  sugar,  three  table- 
spoons of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  CREAM,  and  lastly  add  six 
large  bunches  of  celery  chopped  fine,  with  sufficient  vinegar  to  moisten  the 
whole. 


46 

Chicken  Salad. 

The  yolk  of  six  eggs  well  beaten,  one  half  pint  of  EWELL'L  X.  L. 
DAIRY  BOTTLED  CREAM,  or  the  same  quantity  of  olive  oil,  three  table- 
spoons of  mixed  mustard,  salt  to  taste,  two  teaspoons  of  celery  seed;  mix 
thoroughly;  then  add  three-fourths  of  a  pint  of  strong  vinegar.  Place  over 
the  fire,  stirring  constantly  until  thick  like  custard,  pour  this  mixture  over 
the  chicken,  which  has  previously  been  chopped,  just  before  bringing  to  the 
table  add  four  heads  of  chopped  celery.  If  it  is  not  strong  enough  of  spices 
add  more  mustard  and  cayenne  pepper.  This  is  enough  for  three  chickens. 

Chicken  Salad. 

To  one  chicken  use  the  same  quantity  of  celery,  which  is  three  large  bunches, 
three  or  four  eggs,  one  tablespoon  mixed  mustard,  one  teaspoon  of  salt,  two  of 
celery  seed,  one  tablespoon  of  hard  butter,  two-thirds  tea  cup  of  vinegar,  four 
tablespoons  of  table  oil,  two-thirds  cup  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED 
CREAM.  Process  of  making  :  Seasou  your  chicken  in  cooking,  cut  by  hand 
both  chicken  and  celery,  then  beat  the  whites  and  yolks  of  eggs  separately, 
into  that  beat  the  oil  slowly  ;  then  mix  all  the  ingredients  in  an  earthen  dish, 
except  the  cream,  and  set  on  the  stove.  Cook  until  as  thick  as  custard  ; 
when  cold  add  the  cream,  stirring  well,  and  pour  over  the  chicken  and  celery 
one  hour  before  eating.  Do  not  be  afraid  of  cooking  too  thick. 

Teal  Salad. 

Boil  veal  until  very  tender,  chop  fine,  and  stir  into  it  a  nice  salad  dressing 
of  the  yolk  of  three  eggs,  three  tablespoons  olive  oil,  red  pepper,  salt  and  mus- 
tard to  taste,  the  juice  of  three  lemons,  and  lastly  one-half  pint  of  EWELL'S 
X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  CREAM  ;  put  the  cream  in  just  before  sending  to 
the  table. 

Tomato  Salad. 

Twelve  tomatoes  peeled  and  sliced,  four  eggs  boiled  hard,  one  egg  (raw) 
well  beaten  one  teaspoon  salt,  one-half  teaspoon  cayenne  pepper,  01  e  teaspoon 
sugar,  one  cup  vinegar.  Take  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK. 

Dressing  for  Salad. 

Two  raw  eggs,  one  tablespoon  of  butter,  eight  tablespoons  of  vinegar,  one 
half  teaspoon  of  mustard ;  put  in  a  bowl  over  boiling  water  and  stir  until  it 
becomes  like  cream;  pepper  and  salt  to  taste;  add  three  tablespoons  EWELL'S 
X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  CREAM. 

Salad  Dressing1. 

The  yolks  of  four  eggs,  two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  olive  oil,  red  pepper,  salt  and 
mustard  to  taste,  the  juice  of  two  lemons,  and  last  of  all,  one  cup  of  EWELL'S 
X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  CREAM.  If  the  dressing  is  for  chicken  salad,  use 
the  fat  from  the  chicken  instead  of  sweet  oil.  Be  sure  and  put  the  cream  in 
just  before  sending  to  the  table'. 

Salad  Cream  Dressing. 

Two  even  tablespoons  dry  mustard,  one  teaspoon  salt,  one  teaspoon  sugar; 
scald  with  hot  water  enough  to  mix.  Pour  in  the  oil  slowly,  beating  all  the 
time— drop  in  all  the  oil  it  will  contain  ;  three  unbeaten  eggs  ;  beat  all  to- 
gether ;  one-half  cup  of  vinegar,  and  then  two-thirds  cup  of  EWELL'S  X.  L. 
DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK.  Put  over  the  fire  in  a  double  boiler  ;  stir  con- 
stantly. 

Chicken  Salad. 

Cut  the  white  meat  of  the  chicken  into  small  bits,  the  size  of  peas  (also 
the  dark  meat  if  you  like);  chop  the  whole  part  of  the  celery  nearly  as  small. 
Prepare  a  dressing  thus  :  Rub  the  yolks  of  hard  boiled  eggs  smooth  ;  to  each 
yolk  put  a  half  teaspoon  of  mustard,  the  same  quantity  of  salt,  a  tablespoon  of 
oil  and  a  wine  glass  of  vinegar;  mix  the  chicken  in  a  large  bowl,  and  pour  over 
this  dressing  a  little  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  CREAM.  The 
dressing  must  not  be  put  on  till  just  before  being  served. 


47 

Chicken  Salad. 

Two  chickens  chopped  coarse,  eight  heads  of  celery,  three  eggs,  one  pint 
of  vinegar,  one  tablespoon  of  flour,  one  tablespoon  sugar  ;  rub  the  yolks  of  the 
eggs  to  a  tine  powder,  then  add  salt,  mustard  and  oil  ;  mix  well  together  ; 
then  add  the  cream,  one  gill,  from  SWELL'S  X.  L.  1>AIRY  RANCH,  and 
after  that  the  vinegar  and  salt. 

EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK  the  purest  in  the  world.  All 
should  have  it. 

lobster    S:il:i«l. 

Two  lobsters  picked  fine,  four  heads  of  fresh  lettuce  cut  fine,  put  in  layers 
in  a  dish  with  the  lobsters  ;  boil  your  eggs,  mash  the  yolks  fine,  add  three 
tablespoons  of  melted  butter,  a  teaspoon  of  mustard,  cayenne  pepper  and  salt, 
two  tablespoons  of  sugar,-  three  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTIED 
CREAM,  two  cups  of  vinegar  ;  heat  together  and  pour  over  when  served. 


Asj»sir:iji  us 

Boil  the  asparagus  in  water  until  tender,  cut  off  the  hard  ends  and  set  the 
rest  sway  ;  when  cool  cut  in  inch  pieces  and  put  it  in  a  salad  dish  ;  pour  over 
the  dressing.  Take  the  yolks  of  two  raw  eggs,  beat  them  with  one  teaspoon 
of  made  mustard,  then  add  olive  oil  drop  by  drop,  and  stir  it  until  it  becomes 
very  thick  ;  then  add  two  teaspoons  of  powdered  sugar,  one  of  salt  ;  mix  thor- 
oughly ;  squeeze  in  the  juice  of  one  lemon,  beat  well,  and  add  three  table- 
spoons of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK. 

Potato  Salad. 

Mix  a  nice  salad  dressing  of  one  tablespoonful  of  salt,  a  little  pepper,  two 
tablespoons  of  fine  cut  crisped  parsley,  grate  onion,  about  two  teaspoon  fuls 
with  four  tablespoons  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  CREAM,  or 
salad  oil.  To  this  add  eight  tablespoons  of  vinegar,  slice  two  quarts  of  cold 
boiled  potatoes,  not  sliced  too  thin  ;  pour  over  the  dressing  ;  let  them  stand 
half  an  hour  before  serving. 

Vegetable  Salad. 

Take  cold  vegetables  left  from  dinner,  such  as  potatoes,  peas,  string  beans, 
beets,  etc.;  chill  them  on  the  ice  ;  cover  them  with  any  nice  salad  dressing. 
Take  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK. 

Salad  l>r  easing. 

Take  two  teaspoons  of  mustard,  two  of  sugar,  two  of  salt,  eight  table- 
spoons of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  CREAM;  put  the  yolks  of 
three  eggs  in  with  this  and  work  until  thick  as  boiled  custard,  then  add  six 
tablespoons  of  sharp  vinegar,  beat  the  whites  of  eggs  and  stir  in  last  good. 

Cold  Slaw. 

Chop  or  shred  white  cabbage;  prepare  a  dressing  of  one  tablespoonful  of 
oil  to  four  of  vinegar,  a  teaspoonful  of  mustard,  one  of  salt,  one  of  sugar  and 
a  little  pepper.  Chop  fine  one  cup  of  celery;  mix  with  the  cabbage,  pour  over 
the  dressing,  and  toss  up  well,  and  put  into  a  salad  bowl  . 

Cream  l>ressing  for  Cold  Slaw. 

Two  tablespoonfuls  of    EWELL'S  X.  L.    DAIRY  BOTTLED  CREAM 

(whipped),  two  of  sugar,   and  four  of  vinegar;  beat  well,  and  pour  over  cab- 
bage, previously  cut  very  fine,  and  seasoned  with  salt. 

Go  to  Twenty  -first  and  Folsom  streets  for  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOT- 
TLED MILK. 


I  si;   i:%v  i:r  i/s  \.  •  ,.  i>  \  i  is  v 

PUREST   AND   BEST    IN    THE   WORLD. 


48 

claim  to  be  "The  EWELL  X.  I,.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK." 
Be  sure  and  get  it  from  one  of  their  own  wagons,  and  make  no 
mistake  on  this  point,  as  envious  competitors  are  now  selling 
bottled  milk,  that  would  not  compare  with  Ewell's,  while  yet 
very   fair  milk.     After   procuring  a  quart  bottle,  turn  it  up 
and  down  a  few  times  to  thoroughly  mix  the  cream  with  the 
milk,  or  your  test  would  not  be  a  fair  one.     Then  take  five 
glasses  or  goblets,  of  ordinary  size,  and  put  them  in  a  conve- 
nient place,  where  they  can  remain  unmolested  four  or  five  days. 
Fill  No.  i  with  the  milk  full  to  the  brim,  and  bear  in  mind 
that  this  one  is  to  be  your  standard  of  what  is  pure,  rich  milk* 
The  amount  of  cream  on  the  top  will  indicate  its  richness. 
The  balance  will  simply  be,  solid  clabber,  with  no  appearance  of 
water.     Fill  No.  2  to  within  a  quarter  of  an  inch  of  the  brim, 
No.  3  to  within  half  an  inch  of  the  top;  No.  4  to  within  three- 
quarters  of  an  inch,  and  No.  5  to  within  one  inch,  and  then  fill 
Nos.  2,  3,  4  and  5  full  with  pure,   clear  water.     After  four  or 
five  days — according  as  the  weather  may  be  warm  or  cold,— 
note  the  results.     Each  of  the  numbers,  2,  3,  4  and  5,  will  have 
some  cream  on  top;  in  the  bottom  of  each  will  be  clabber,  and 
between  the  two  just  the  amount  of  water  you  put  in,  and  no 
more.     After  satisfying  yourself  of  the  correctness  of  the  test, 
and  noting  carefully  the  amount  of  cream  on  glass  No.  i ,  you 
can  test  any  other  milk  by  setting  it  aside  to  turn  to  clabber, 
the  cream  on  top  indicating  its  proportion  of  richness,  and  if 
there  is  any  water  between  it  and  the  clabber,  rest  assured  it 
was  put  there  by  the  dealer  who  supplies  you,  and  you  can  tell 
whether  The  EWELL'S  X.  L-  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK  is 
worth  the  difference  they  charge  or  not. 

If  milk  is  diluted,  over  half,  the  mixture  will  not  clabber, 
but  simply  get  sour,  or  take  a  very  long  time  to  clabber.  As 
only  about  one-half  of  all  the  milk  sold  in  San  Francisco  is 
fairly  pure  or  good,  the  importance  of  testing  your  milk  should 
be  apparent  to  all. 

(Continued  on  page  56.} 

See  the  Battle  of  Gettysburg  at  Market  and  Tenth  Sts. 


49 


Yolks  of  two  hard  boiled  eggs,  rubbed  very  fine  and  smooth,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  English  mustard,  one  of  salt,  the  yolks  of  two  raw  eggs  beaten 
into  the  other,  spoonful  of  fine  sugar,  add  sweet  oil  in  small"  'quantities,  and 
beat  as  long  as  the  mixture  continues  to  thicken;  then  add  vinegar  till  as  thin 
as  desired.  If  not  hot  enough,  add  a  little  cayenne  pepper. 

Cold  string  beans  or  cabbage  sprouts,  make  a  very  good  salad  by  pouring 
over  a  nice  dressing. 

Cucumber  and  Tomato  Salad. 

Slice  very  thin  a  good  sized  cucumber,  put  it  in  a  bowl  with  a  little  salt 
and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar;  set  it  aside,  and  mix  a  plain  dressing. 
Take  two  tomatoes,  scald  and  remove  the  skin,  line  the  salad-bowl  with  let- 
tuce, drain  the  cucumber  from  the  salted  water,  and  put  it  in  the  bowl;  cut 
the  tomatoes  into  slices,  put  them  on  top  of  the  cucumber,  and  pour  the  dress- 
ing over. 

Mnskmellon  Salad. 

Should  you  at  any  time  have  an  over  ripe  mellon,  do  not  sendPit  away 
from  your  table,  but  scoop  it  out,  and  pour  over  a  French  dressing.  ,  Youj  will 
find  it  excellent. 

Red  Vegetable  Salad. 

One  pint  of  boiled  potatoes,  one  pint  of  uncooked  red  cabbage,  two  boiled 
beets,  six  tablespoonfuls  of  oil,  eight  of  vinegar,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  little 
red  pepper.  Cut  the  potatoes  and  beets  in  thin  slices,  and  chop  the  cabbage 
very  fine;  mix  all  carefully,  then  serve. 

Cucumber  Salad. 

Peal,  slice  and  pound  sliced  cucumbers,  lay  them  in  salted  water  for  fifteen 
minutes,  place  them  in  a  net  to  drain,  getting  out  all  the  water,  then'place 
them  in  a  salad  bowl,  pour  over  a  dressing  made  from  vinegar  and7  oil,  a  little 
pepper  and  salt. 

Celery  Salad. 

One  boiled  egg,  one  raw  egg,  one  tablespoonful  salad  oil,  one  tablespoon- 
ful  sugar,  four  tablespoonfuls  vinegar,  one  teaspoonful  mustard,  salt  and  pep- 
per to  taste;  prepare  the  dressing  as  for  tomato  salad;  cut  the  celery  into  bits 
half  an  inch  long;  eat  before  the  vinegar  injures  the  crispness  of  the  celery. 

Salmon  Salad. 

One  quart  of  cooked  salmon,  two  heads  of  lettuce,  the  juice  of  two  lemons  , 
one  tablespoonful  of  vinegar,  two  of  capers,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  one  cup 
of  Mayonnaise  dressing.  Break  up  the  salmon,  add  to  it  the  salt,  pepper, 
vinegar  and  lemon  juice;  put  it  in  a  cool  place  for  three  hours.  Prepare  the 
lettuce,  border  the  dish  with  the  leaves,  cut  up  the  remainder  and  lay  them 
on  the  bottom  of  the  dish;  then  heat  the  salmon  lightly  and  cover  with  the 
dressing.  Now  sprinkle  on  the  capers,  and  lay  over  them  sclices  of  lemon. 

lettuce  Salad. 

Take  the  yolks  of  three  hard  boiled'  eggs,  add  salt,  pepper  and  mustard 
to  taste,  mash  it  fine;  make  a  paste  by  adding  oil,  little  at'a  time.  Mix  thor- 
oughly, and  then  dilute  by  adding  gradually  a  small  cup  of  vinegar,  and  pour 
over  the  lettuce;  garnish  with  sliced  egg.  Butter  can  be  used  in  place  of  oil. 

Tomato  Salad. 

Fill  a  salad  dish  with  whole  lettuce  leaves,  and  slice  nice,  fresh  tomatoes 
over  them;  pour  over  any  good  salad  dressing. 

X.  I,.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  HIII.K. 

PUREST  AND  BEST  IN  THE  WORLD. 


50 

Sardine  Salad- 
Arrange  one  quart  of  cooked  fish  on  a  bed  of  lettuce;  split  eight  sardines 
if  there  are  any  bones  remove  them.  Cover  the  fish  with  the  sardine  dressing; 
over  this  put  the  sardines,  having  the  ends  meet  in  the  dish;  at  the  base  of  the 
disk  make  a  layer  of  thin  scliced  lemon.  Garnish  with  parsley  and  serve 
immediately. 

French  Salad  Dressing. 

Three  tablespoonfuls  of  oil,  one  of  vinegar,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste;  put 
the  salt  in  a  cup,  add  a  very  little  oil,  when  thoroughly  mixed,  add  the  remain- 
der of  the  oil,  then  the  vinegar;  grate  a  little  onion  juice  into  the  dressing. 

Bacon  Dressing. 

Cut  half  a  pound  of  fat  bacon  into  small  pieces,  first  slice  then  cut  across, 
then  fry  until  a  dark  brown;  remove  the  pan  from  the  fire,  add  the  juice  of 
one  lemon,  one  wineglassfull  of  vinegar,  a  salt-spoon  of  salt,  one  of  pepper, 
mix  thoroughly  and  pour  it  over  the  salad  with  the  pieces  of  bacon;  good  for 
potatoe  salad. 

Mustard  and  Cress. 

These,  if  eaten  alone,  make  an  excellent  salad.  Wash  and  dress  as 
lettuce. 


Vegetables. 


Boiled  Potatoes. 

Old  potatoes  are  better  for  being  peeled  and  put  in  cold  water  two  hours 
before  boiling.  They  should  be  put  into  fresh  cold  water  when  set  over  the 
fire.  New  potatoes  should  always  be  put  into  boiling  water,  and  it  is  best  to 
prepare  them  just  in  time  for  cooking.  They  are  better  steamed. 

Mashed  Potatoes. 

Old  potatoes,  when  unfit  for  plain  boiling,  may  be  mashed;  take  off  all  the 
skin  and  imperfections,  and  lay  them  in  cold  water  for  one  hour;  then  put 
them  into  a  stew-pan  with  a  teaspoon  of  salt.  Cover  with  cold  water  and  let 
them  boil  for  half  an  hour;  take  them  up  with  a  skimmer  into  a  wooden  bowl 
and  mash  them  fine.  Melt  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg  into  half  a  pint 
of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK;  mix  it  with  the  mashed  pota- 
toes until  it  is  thoroughly  smooth.  The  quantity  of  milk  must  be  in  proportion 
to  the  quantity  of  potatoes. 

Mashed  potatoes  may  be  made  a  highly  ornamental  dish.  After  shaping 
it  as  taste  may  direct,  turn  the  edge  of  the  plate  with  a  wreath  of  celery  leaves 
or  green  parsley. 

Potatoes  and  Cream. 

Mince  cold  boiled  potatoes  fine;  put  them  into  a  spider  with  hot  butter 
in  it.  Let  them  fry  a  little  in  the  butter,  well  covered;  season  with  salt  and 
pepper,  and  pour  over  half  a  cup  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED 
CREAM.  Let  it  boil  up  once  and  serve. 

Potato  Croquettes. 

Boil  and  mash  six  good-sized  potatoes,  add  one  tablespoonful  of  butter, 
two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK;  put  the 
whites  of  two  eggs,  well  beaten,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  When  cool  enough 
to  handle  work  into  shape,  roll  in  egg  and  bread  crumbs,  and  fry  in  hot  lard. 

Potato    Slow. 

Wash  and  pare  three  or  four  potatoes,  and  cut  them  into  small  pieces; 
boil  until  tender;  then  drain  off  the  water,  and  put  in  three  pints  of  EWELL'S 
X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK.  When  it  begins  to  boil,  add  two  cupfuls 
of  nice  wheat  bread  crumbs.  Season  with  pepper,  salt  and  butter. 


51 

Potato  Puffs. 

Take  one  pint  of  cold  mashed  potatoes,  beat  two  eggs,  pepper  and  salt  to 
taste,  one  cup  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  a  little  flour, 
one  teaspoon  yeast  powder;  shape  in  balls  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven.  Garnish 
with  parsley  and  serve  hot. 

Whipped  Potatoes— Good. 

Instead  of  mashing  in  the  ordinary  way,  whip  with  a  fork  until  light  and 
dry;  then  whip  in  a  little  melted  butter,  half  cup  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY 
BOTTLED  MILK,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  whipping  rapidly  until  creamy; 
piled  as  lightly  and  as  irregularly  as  you  can  in  a  hot  dish,  with  bits  of  butter 
over  the  top. 

Baked    Onions. 

Boil  the  onions  slightly  in  water,  cut  in  halves  and  take  out  the  centers; 
fill  the  cups  with  a  stuffing  of  bread  crumbs  moistened  with  an  egg  and  a  half 
cup  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  CREAM.  Season  with  grated 
cheese,  pepper  and  thyme;  baked  in  a  quick  oven  with  a  little  milk  to  prevent 
burning. 

Stewed  Tomatoes. 

Pour  boiling  water  over  six  large  tomatoes,  or  a  greater  number  of  small 
ones;  let  them  remain  for  a  few  minutes,  then  peel  of  the  skins,  cut  them  in 
small  pieces,  put  them  in  a  stew-pan,  with  salt  and  pepper  to  taste;  little  but- 
ter, a  tablespoon  of  grated  bread  or  rolled  crackers;  wet  in  two-thirds  cup  of 
EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAERY  BOTTLKD  MILK;  stir  occasionally  that  it  may 
not  burn.  Serve  hot.  This  is  decidedly  the  best  manner  of  stewing  tomatoes; 
then  may  add  an  onion  cut  fine. 

Scalloped  Tomatoes. 

Turn  nearly  all  the  juice  off  from  a  can  of  tomatoes;  salt  and  pepper  this, 
by  the  way,  and  put  aside  in  a  cool  place  for  some  other  day's  soup.  Put  a 
layer  of  bread  crumbs  in  the  bottom  of  a  dish  well  buttered,  on  them  a  layer 
of  tomatoes;  sprinkle  with  salt,  pepper  and  some  bits  of  butter,  also  a  little 
sugar;  another  layer  of  crumbs,  another  of  tomatoes,  seasoned;  then  a  top  layer 
of  very  fine  crumbs.  Pour  over  one  cup  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOT- 
TLED MILK.  Bake  until  brown;  quick  oven. 

EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  drank  slowly,  will  cure 
dyspepsia. 

Tomatoes  may  be  sliced  thin,  and  be  served  with  sugar,  salt,  pepper  and 
cream,  or  vinegar  over  for  breakfast;  or  sliced  and  served  with  sugar,  salt  and 
grated  nutmeg  for  tea. 

Stewed   Tomatoes. 

Peel  and  cut  in  small  pieces  six  tomatoes;  put  them  in  a  stew-pan  with  one 
onion  sliced  fine,  let  them  boil  twenty  minutes  until  the  onion  is  tender;  add 
teaspoonful  salt,  one  of  butter,  little  pepper,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  grated  bread 
crumbs  or  rolled  cracker;  let  it  simmer  twenty  minutes  longer.  Serve  hot. 

Baked  Tomatoes. 

Wash  clean  and  cut  in  two;  place  in  a  bakimg  tin,  put  in  each  one  a  little 
salt,  pepper  and  a  bit  of  butter,  place  in  a  hot  oven  and  bake  for  nearly  an 
hour.  Serve  hot. 

Tomato  Hash. 

Butter  the  dish  well,  put  in  a  layer  of  sliced  tomatoes,  a  layer  of  cold 
chicken,  chopped  fine,  then  a  layer  of  buttered  bread,  and  so  on  until  the 
-dish  is  full,  seasoning  with  pepper,  salt  and  sugar  to  taste;  beat  two  eggs, 
pour  over  the  top;  bake  to  a  golden  brown. 

X.  JL.   l>  t  3  RC  V  BOTTLED  *•  1 1,14. 

PUREST  AND  BEST  IN  THE  WORLD. 


52 

Fried.  Tomatoes. 

Cut  six  large  tomatoes  in  thick  slices,  dip  them  in  egg  batter  and  fry  them- 
in  hot  lard.  When  done,  season  them  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  pour  over  a- 
teacup  of  E  WELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  CREAM.  Serve  hot. 

Raked  Cabbage. 

Boil  a  cabbage,  then  put  in  a  colander  and  drain  it  until  very  dry;  chop 
fine;  put  in  pepper,  salt  and  half  cup  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED 
MILK;  put  in  a  baking-pan,  with  bits  of  butter  over  the  top  and  into  the 
oven;  bake  one  hour. 

Boiled 


Cut  the  cabbage  in  quarters,  wash  very  thoroughly  in  several  waters,  put 
it  into  a  pot  in  which  a  piece  of  corned  beef  has  already  been  boiling  for  one 
hour;  boil  until  the  cabbage  is  tender.  Before  it  is  sufficiently  done  put  into 
the  pot  a  salt-spoon  of  baking  soda. 

Stewed  Cabbage. 

Slice  a  head  of  red  cabbage,  wash  it  well,  put  it  into  a  saucepan  with  pep- 
per and  salt;  one  tablespoonful  of  water,  let  it  stew  until  quite  tender;  add 
three  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar,  one  of  butter,  one  of  flour,  let  it  boil  long 
enough  to  thickeu  the  flour.  It  may  be  served  with  sausage  or  cold  meat. 

Cream  I>ressing  for  Cold  Slaw. 

Beat  the  yolk  of  one  egg,  add  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  two 
teaspoonfuls  of  sugar,  salt  and  pepper,  half  teacup  vinegar,  put  on  the  stove 
to  simmer;  one  teaspoonful  of  flour,  made  smooth  in  I'  half  a  cup  of  water; 
when  boiled  pour  over  the  cabbage;  this  is  for  a  pint  of  fine  shaved  cabbage. 

Cauliflower. 

Boil  a  tine  califlower,  tied  in  coarse  tarlaton,  in  hot  water,  a  little  salt; 
drain  and  lay  in  a  deep  dish,  flower  uppermost.  Htat  a  cup  of  EWELL'S 
X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  thickened  with  one  tablespoonful  of  flour 
rubbed  into  one  of  butter;  add  pepper,  salt,  the  beaten  white  of  an  egg,  and 
boil  two  minutes,  stirring  well.  Taken  from  the  fire,  squeeze  the  juice  of  one 
lemon  into  the  sauce,  and  pour  over  the  cauliflower. 

Green  Peas. 

If  a  little  hard,  shell  and  lay  in  cold  water  fifteen  minutes;  cook  twenty- 
five  minutes  in  boiling  salted  water;  when  half  done  add  baking  soda  the  size 
of  a  pea.  When  done  drain,  put  into  a  deep  dish  with  a  good  lump  of  butter, 
pepper,  salt  and  teaspoonful  of  sugar.  M  ",2 

To  Slew    Cabbage  a  la  Cauliflower. 

Parboil  in  water,  and  then  shred  it;  put  it  into  a  stewpan  with  some  pieces 
of  butter,  a  teacupful  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  CREAM  and 
seasoning,  and  stew  tender. 

Boiled  Onions. 

Peel  and  wash  the  onions,  and  if  large  cut  in  half;  boil  in  water,  when 
done  drain  well;  add  for  seasoning,  one  cup  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOT- 
TLED MILK,  when  it  comes  to  a  boil  stir  in  one  tablespoonful  flour,  little 
salt  and  pepper;  cook  a  few  minutes  after  seasoning.  .  ,  * 

Turnip  a  la  Poulette. 

Cut  the  turnips  in  slices  and  put  in  a  saucepan,  when  boiled  tender,  turn 
them  into  a  colander;  put  a  little  butter  and  flour  in  a  saucepan  and  stir,  add 
a  gill  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  and  stir,  then  add  the 
turnips;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 


53 

To  Stew  Celery. 

Wash  well  and  cut  in  small  pieces;  stew  them  with  a  little  broth  until 
tender,  then  add  three  spoonfuls  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED 
CREAM,  flour  to  thicken,  salt  and  pepper,  and  simmer  all  together;  add  mace, 
if  wished. 

Parsnip  Fritters. 

Wash  and  scrape  five  parsnips,  boil  them  until  tender,  drain  the  water  off, 
mash  them  fine;  add  to  them  a  teaspoonful  of  cornstarch  and  a  beaten  egg; 
mix  well  with  half  a  cup  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  CREAM; 
put  a  tablespoonful  of  lard  in  a  frying-pan  over  the  fire,  add  to  it  a  pinch  of 
salt;  when  boiling  hot,  put  in  the  parsnips,  making  them  in  small  cakes  with 
a  spoon;  when  one  side  is  a  delicate  brown  turn;  when  done  sprinkle  over  a 
little  fine  chopped  parsley;  serve  hot. 

String  Beans. 

3  String,  snap  and  wash  two  quarts  of  beans,  boil  in  plenty  of  water;  boil  an 
hour,  or  until  tender;  add  salt  and  pepper  just  before  taking  up,  stirring  in  one 
and  a-half  tablespoons  butter  rubbed  into  two  tablespoons  flour  and  half  pint 
EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY^BOTTLED  MILK,  or  boil  a  piece  of  pork  one  hour, 
then  add  beans,  and  boil  until  tender. 

Visit  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK  Ranch,  and  examine 
for  yourself. 

Lentils  Boiled  Plain. 

Wash  one  pint  of  lentils,  put  them  over  the  fire  in  two  quarts  of  cold 
water  with  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  teaspoonful  of  salt,  little  pepper,  and 
boil  slowly  until  tender,  about  three  hours;  drain  off  the  water;  add  to  the 
lentils  one  tablespoonful  of  good  butter,  a  little  chopped  parsley,  teaspoonful 
of  sugar,  a  little  more  salt  aud  pepper,  if  required;  serve  hot. 

Liima  Beans. 

One  pint  of  lima  beans  (if  dried  let  them  soak  over  night),  if  fresh,  wash 
them  and  put  them  in  boiling  water  and  cook  until  tender;  pour  off  the  water, 
and  add  one  cup  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  butter,  pep- 
per  and  salt;  let  them  simmer  in  this  dressing  ten  minutes  before  serving. 

Boston  Baked  Beans. 

Clean  and  wash  one  pint  of  beans;  soak  them  over  night,  in  the  morning 
pour  off  the  water,  cover  with  cold  water  and  put  to  boil;  after  boiling  fifteen 
minutes  stir  in  one  salt  spoonful  of  baking  soda;  let  them  continue  to  boil 
until  they  begin  to  split  open,  then  turn  them  into  the  colander;  put  about  half 
of  the  beans  into  a  deep  earthen  pot,  lay  on  them  a  piece  of  well  cleaned  salt 
pork  and  the  remainder  of  the  beans,  mix  one  teaspoonful  of  mustard,  a  little 
red  and  black  pepper,  with  one  tablespoonful  of  molasses,  half  pint  of  water, 
pour  this  over  the  beans,  add  water  to  cover,  bake  slowly  eight  hours. 

Butter  Beans. 

With  a  knife  cut  off  the  ends  of  pods  and  string  from  both  sides,  cut 
«very  bean  lengthwise,  in  two  or  three  strips,  and  leave  them  for  half  an  hour 
in  cold  water.  Cover  them  with  boiling  water;  boil  till  tender,  drain  well, 
return  to  the  kettle,  and  add  a  dres?ing  of  half  a  cup  of  EWELL'S  X.  L. 
DAIRY  BOTTLED  CREAM,  one  even  teaspoon  salt,  half  a  teaspoon  pepper. 
This  is  sufficint  for  a  quart  of  beans. 

Mushrooms  Stewed. 

If  fresh,  let  them  lie  in  salt  and  water  about  one  hour,  then  put  them  in 
the  stewpan,  cover  with  water,   and  let  them  cook  two  hours  gently.     Dress 
hen  with  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  CREAM,  butter  and  flour  as 
ysters,  and  season  to  taste. 


JULIUS  JACOBS. 
GEO.  EASTON. 
JAS.  N.  BROWN. 
E.P.  FARNSWOR1 


PACIFIC  DEPARTMENT  OF 


Springfield  of  Mass . .  . 
Glens  Falls  of  N.  Y . .  . 
New  Hampshire  of  N.H. 
German  of  Freeport. .  .  . 
Merchants  of  .Newark .  . 
United  States  of  N.  Y. 
Concordia  of  Wisconsin 

Union  of  Penn. 

Citizens  of  St.  Louis . .  . 
Buffalo-German  . 


Assets 


53,200,141  88  Surplus 
1,745,630  54 
1,505,101  00 
2,386,093  00 
1,550,678  26 

666,178  18 

581,386  00   .  ' 

796,542  00 

439,324  00 
1,332,377  00 


11,867,992  3& 
1,168,402  00 
905,101  00 
601,152  00 
951,706  11 
513,902  39 
244,496  00 
432,318  00 
389,988  00 
997,206  6& 


LOCAL  AGENTS  FOR 


Ins. Co.  of  NorthAmerica. Assets  $8,696,957  00  Surplus  $5,638,907  00 
Imperial  of  London. ...  "  10,044,636  00  "  7,504,369  00 
Prussian  Nat'n'l  of  Stettin  "  3,204,96500  "  2,671,51000 


JACOBS  & 


AQENTS, 

312  PINE  STREET,      -     -      San  Francisco,  CaL 


55 

Stuffed  Egg  Plant. 

Cut  the  eggplant  in  two;  scrape  out  all  the  inside  and  put  it  in  a  saucepan 
with  a  little  minced  ham:  cover  with  water  and  boil  until  soft;  drain  off  the 
water,  add  two  tablespoonfuls  grated  crumbs,  little  butter,  half  a  minced  onion, 
salt  and  red  pepper,  wet  with  a  little  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED 
CREAM;  stuff  each  half  of  the  hull  with  the  mixture,  and  bake  fifteen 
minutes. 

Raked  JIsK'csironi. 

Boil  half  a  pound  of  maccaroni  until  quite  soft;  put  it  into  a  vegetable- 
dish,  with  a  little  mustard,  pepper  and  salt,  a  small  piece  of  butter,  and  some 
grated  cheese,  cover  with  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK;  bake 
half  an  hour. 

Have  you  had  a  sample  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK  ? 

Rice  Japanese  Style. 

Put  half  a  pound  of  well  washed  rice  into  a  double  kettle,  with  one  pint 
of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and 
quarter  of  a  nutmeg  grated:  boil  it  until  tender,  about  half  an  hour;  if  it 
seems  very  dry  add  a  little  more  liquid,  taking  care  not  to  have  it  sloppy  when 
it  is  cooked. 

Sweet  Corn. 

Husk  and  clear  it  of  the  silk,  put  it  in  boiling  water  enough  to  cover,  and 
boil  ten  minutes  only.  Send  to  the  table  on  the  cob. 

Another  \Vsi.v. 

Cut  the  corn  from  the  cob  and  put  it  in  a  stewpan,  with  a  cup  of  EWELL'S 
X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK  to  each  quart;  add  butter,  pepper,  salt  and 
very  little  cornstarch. 

Succotasli. 

Lima  beans. — Prepare  and  cook  the  beans  as  usual.  About  ten  minutes 
before  serving  add  a  quantity  of  sweet  corn  cut  from  the  cob;  season  with 
pepper  and  salt,  and  add  half  cup  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED 
CREAM.  This  dish  may  be  prepared  with  pork  if  desirable. 

EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  the  very  best  food  for 
children. 

Salsify  or  Vegetable  Oyster. 

Clean  well  and  cut  in  slices;  lay  them  in  a  saucepan  with  sufficient  water 
to  cover  them,  when  tender  turn  off  nearly  all  the  water;  add  one  cup  of 
EWELL'L  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  salt,  pepper,  butter,  a  little  flour 
rubbed  smooth  in  a  tablespoon  of  water. 

Scolloped  Oyster  Plant. 

Boil  the  oyster  plant  until  tender,  drain  off  the  water  and  rub  through  a 
colander;  add  butter,  pepper,  celery,  salt,  a  little  sugar,  one  cup  of  EWELL'S 
X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  mix  well;  put  in  a  baking  dish,  and  cover 
the  top  with  bread  crumbs;  sprinkle  little  pepper  and  bits  of  butter  over  the 
top;  set  in  a  quick  oven  and  bake  a  delicate  brown. 

Oyster  Plant  Croquettes. 

Prepare  as  for  baking.  The  preparation  should  be  made  thin  into  balls, 
dipped  in  beaten  egg  and  rolled  in  bread  crumbs,  and  fried  in  hot  lard  until  a 
bright  brown. 

USE   EWEIJL'S   X.   I,.   DAIRY   ROTTI,EI> 

PUREST   AND   BEST    IN    THE   WORLD. 


56 

of  the  Business. 


Some  allusion  has  been  made  in  previous  pages  to  the  initial, 
or  starting  point,  of  the  immense  business  of  The  E  WELL'S 
X.  L-  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK  CO.  From  small  beginnings 
it  has  grown  to  its  present  proportions  in  the  short  space  of 
two  years  and  three  months.  Yet  few  people  who  now  enjoy 
the  luxury  of  this  most  excellent  milk  can  have  any  idea  of 
the  worry  and  strain,  the  vexations  and  disappointments  of 
years  of  experiments  to  bring  it  to  its  present  high  standard. 
Only  those  who  have  stood  by  Mr.  Ewell  in  these  years  of  trial 
can  appreciate  the  triumph  he  now  enjoys.  Step  by  step, 
month  by  month,  and  year  by  year,  regardless  of  expense,  he 
has  bent  his  mind  to  the  work  of  producing  milk  so  rich  in  all 
the  essentials  of  a  perfectly  pure  article  that  competition  seems 
to  be  almost  out  of  the  question. 

Yet  the  details  of  these  many  triumphs  over  unforeseen  ob- 
stacles deserve  more  than  a  passing  mention.  After  deter- 
mining that  the  old  methods  of  delivery  were  entirely  incom- 
patible with  this  idea  of  serving  milk  direct  to  consumers,  so  as 
to  prevent  the  many  ways  of  tampering  with  it,  so  well  known 
to  all  milkmen,  and  after  adopting  his  original  idea  of  bottling 
his  milk,  warm  from  the  cow,  one  of  the  first  difficulties  that 
presented  itself  was  the  cleaning  of  the  bottles.  This  was 
overcome  by  utilizing  his  steam  power,  used  in  cooking  his 
feed,  to  run  a  system  of  fast-revolving  brushes,  whereby  each 
bottle  is  put  through  a  boiling  solution  of  sal  soda  and  soap, 
then  rinsed  in  boiling  hot  water,  after  which  they  are  placed 
in  the  sun  to  dry. 

The  filling  of  the  bottles  was  another  obstacle  met  by  Mr. 

Ewell  by  an  invention  whereby  16  bottles  are  filled  at  a  time, 

and  this  going  on  during  the  whole  time  of  milking.     By  the 

time  the  milking  is  done  the  entire  product  of  ten  thousand 

Continued  on  page  62. 

Pacific  Bank:  Sells  l>rafts  on  every  Important  City. 


57 


Summer 

Wash  and  cut  in  halves,  place  them  in  a  saucepan,  cover  with  boiling 
water,  let  them  boil  until  tender;  drain  and  press  the  water  out,  mash  and 
season  well  with  butter,  pepper  and  salt  and  a  tablespoonful  of  EWELL'S 
X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  CREAM. 

Halted  Squash. 

Cut  in  pieces,  remove  the  mealing  and  scrape  well;  bake  one  hour  and  a 
half;  to  be  eaten  with  salt  and  butter. 


Asparagus  with 

Boil  a  bunch  of  asparagus  twenty  minutes;  cut  off  the  tender  part  and 
lay  in  a  deep  pie  plate,  buttering,  salting  and  peppering  well;  beat  three  eggs 
just  enough  to  break  the  yolks  well,  add  a  spoonful  of  melted  butter,  little 
salt  and  pepper,  and  pour  over  the  asparagus;  bake  ten  minutes  in  a  quick 
oven,  serve  hot. 

Boiled  Asparagus. 

Cut  off  the  tough  parts,  wash  the  green  in  cold  water,  and  tie  it  in  small 
bundles  that  they  may  be  taken  up  without  breaking,  put  them  in  boiling  water 
with  a  teaspoon  of  salt,  let  them  boil  fast  for  half  an  hour;  when  done  take 
them  from  the  water  and  lay  over  butter,  or  they  may  be  dipped  in  a  nice 
salad  dressing. 

Asparagus  upon  Toast. 

Wash  and  tie  them  up  and  boil  for  half  an  hour,  have  ready  some  slices 
of  crustless  toast;  dip  each  in  asparagus  liquor,  butter  well  while  hot,  and  lay 
upon  a  heated  dish;  drain  the  asparagus  and  arrange  upon  the  toast;  pepper 
salt  and  butter  generously. 

Purest  and  best  found  corner  of  Twenty-first  and  Folsom  Streets. 

Boiled  Squash. 

Cut  them  up  and  remove  the  skin  and  seeds,  and  cook  in  hot  water  until 
tender,  then  mash  them  and  dress  with  butter,  salt  and  pepper. 

Summer  Squash. 

Cut  them  in  quarters  and  boil  in  hot  water,  add  a  little  salt  and  cook 
about  twenty  minutes;  mash  in  a  colander,  press  out  the  water,  season  with 
pepper,  salt  and  butter. 

Fried  Squash. 

Cut  the  squash  in  thin  slices  and  sprinkle  it  with  salt;  let  it  stand  a  few 
minutes,  then  beat  two  eggs  and  dip  the  squash  into  the  egg,  then  fry  it 
brown  in  butter. 

Kgg  Plant. 

Cut  the  plant  into  slices  half  an  inch  thick,  remove  the  skin,  sprinkle  salt 
over  each  slice,  pile  them  and  cover  with  a  weight;  drain  and  dip  each  slice  in 
fine  crumbs,  then  in  beaten  egg;  fry  in  hot  fat  until  tender. 

Boiled  Parsnips. 

Wash  and  scrape  the  parsnips  thoroughly  and  don't  leave  any  dark  specks 
about  them;  cut  them  in  quarters;  put|themin  a  sauce-pan  of  jboiling  water, 
salted;  boil  them  continual  until  tender;  take  them  up  audadd  salt,  pepper  and 
plenty  of  butter.  This  vegetable  is  usually  served  with  salt  fish  . 

Parsnips  Fried  in  Butter. 

Cold  boiled  parsnips;  cut  in  long  thin  slices  about  one-third  of  an  inch 
thick,  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper;^  dip  in  melted  butter  and  in  flour;  pour 
two  tablespoonsful  of  hot  butter  in  the  frying-pan;  put  in  enough  parsnips  to 
cover  the  bottom  of  the  pan;  fry  brown  on  both  sides,  and  serve  on  a  hot-dish. 


58 

Creamed  Parsnips. 

Boil  tender;  scrape  and  slice  lengthways;  put  over  the  fire  with  two-table- 
spoonsful  of  butter,  little  pepper,  salt  and  minced  parsley;  shake  until  the 
mixture  boils,  dish  the  parsnips;  add  to  the  sauce  three-tablespoonsful  of 
Swell's  X.  L.  Dairy  Bottled  Cream  in  which  has  been  stirred  a  quarter  of  a 
spoon  of  flour;  boil  five  minutes,  and  pour  over  the  parsnips. 

"Turnips. 

Boil  until  tender;  ^ash  and  smooth  and  season  with  butter,  pepper,  salt, 
and  add  a  little  E well's  X.  L.  Dairy  Bottled  Cream. 

Mushrooms  Fried. 

When  peeled  put  them  into  hot  fat,  and  let  them  heat  thoroughly  through ; 
much  cooking  toughens  them.  Season  well  with  salt  and  pepper.  Serve  on 
buttered  toast;  a  teaspoonful  of  wine  on  each  mushroom. 

Baked  Mushrooms. 

Line  a  baking  tin  with  slices  of  well  buttered  bread,  place  on  them  some 
large  flat  mushrooms,  cleaned  and  trimmed.  Put  a  little  nudget  of  butter  in 
each,  also  a  snuff  of  pepper  and  salt.  Cover  them  close,  and  let  them  bake 
for  fifteen  minutes. 

Broiled  Mushrooms. 

Choose  the  largest  sort.  Lay  them  on  a  small  gridiron  over  bright  coals, 
the  stalk  upwards.  Boil  quickly,  and  serve  with  butter,  pepper  and  salt. 

Beets. 

Wash  them  clean  ;  put  them  into  a  pot  of  boiling  water ;  boil  from  one 
hour  and  a  half  or  two  hours ;  when  tender  take  them  into  a  pan  of  cold  water; 
scrub  the  skins  off  with  the  hands  as  quickly  as  possible  ;  cut  them  in  thin 
slices  ;  put  them  in  a  deep  dish  ;  strew  over  salt,  pepper,  little  sugar,  and  over 
all  pour  cold  vinegar  ;  good  with  boiled  meats. 

Boiled  Sweet  Potatoes. 

Clean,  and  if  very  large,  cut  in  half  ;  put  them  in  a  pot  and  pour  boiling 
water  over  them  ;  cover,  and  boil  fast  until  a  folk  will  pass  through  them. 
When  done  drain  off  the  water,  take  off  the  skin  and  serve.  Cold  sweet 
potatoes  may  be  cut  lengthwise  and  fried  in  butter. 

To  Balce    Sweet  Potatoes. 

Wash  them  clean,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven,  from  three-quarters  to  an 
hour,  according  to  their  size  ;  let  the  oven  have  a  good  heat,  and  do  not  open 
it  unless  it  is  necessary  to  turn  them,  until  they  are  done ;  baked  potatoes 
should  not  be  cut,  but  broken  open  and  eaten  from  the  skin  as  from  a  shell. 

French  Fried   Sw-eet  Potatoes. 

Boil  them  for  about  fifteen  minutes,  then  pare,  slice  and  fry  in  hot  butter 
until  both  sides  are  a  rich  brown  ;  when  they  are  crisp  and  done,  take  them 
up,  place  them  on  brown  paper  to  absorb  the  giease  from  them  ;  serve  very 
hot ;  sprinkle  with  salt,  these  are  delicious  with  steak,  as  a  breakfast  dish. 

Carrots. 

When  young  and  small,  carrots  need  only  be  washed  without  scraping ; 
leave  on  about  an  inch  of  the  green  ;  put  them  in  a  stew-pan  with  hot  water, 
salted  ;  let  them  boil  for  twenty  minutes,  then  take  them  in  a  dish,  put  butter 
and  pepper  over,  and  serve  with  boiled  meat  or  poultry  ;  old  carrots  must  be 
scraped  clean  then  boiled  until  tender, 

USE  EWKIJL'S   X.   t,.   »AIirir  BOTTUEB- 

PUREST  AND  BEST  IN  THE  WORLD. 


59 

Carrots    Sliced. 

Carrots  may  be  sliced  and  boiled  in  very  little  water  ;  when  tender  add  a 
cup  of  Swell's  X.  L.  Dairy  Bottled  Milk  ;  tablespoonful  of  flour,  salt  and  pepper 
to  taste  ;  a  little  parsley  is  very  good. 

Mashed   Carrots. 

Wash  and  scrape  off  the  skin  ;  cut  in  small  pieces  and  boil  until  tender, 
then  take  them  up  with  a  skimmer ;  mash  them  smooth  ;  add  butter,  pepper 
and  salt ;  make  them  in  form  with  a  knife  blade ;  serve  with  roast  meat. 

Radishes.. 

Radishes  should  be  fresh  and  tender  to  be  palatable  ;  to  prepare  them  for 
the  table,  cut  off  all  the  leaves,  leaving  an  inch  of  the  stalk  ;  trim  them  neatly, 
and  lay  them  in  cold  water  for  an  hour ;  they  are  generally  eaten  with  salt 
only  ;  they  may  be  served,  cut  in  thin  slices  with  vinegar  and  salt. 


Eggs. 

Plain  Omelet. 

Break  four  eggs  into  a  large  bowl  ;  beat  them  well ;  season  with  salt  and 
pepper  ;  take  a  tablespoon  of  flour,  and  mix  smoothly  in  a  cup  of  E WELL'S 
X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK  ;  then  pour  it  into  the  bowl  with  the  eggs, 
and  beat  all  well ;  have  a  hot  pan  ready  with  a  good  lump  of  melted  butter  in 
it ;  pour  in  the  omelet,  and  as  soon  as  it  becomes  "  set  "  in  the  middle,  turn 
very  carefully  ;  serve  hot. 

Ham   Omelet. 

Two  eggs,  four  ounces  of  butter,  a  little  pepper,  two  tablespoons  of 
minced  ham  ;  mince  the  ham  very  tine,  and  fry  for  two  minutes,  then  make 
the  batter  for  the  omelet ;  stir  in  the  ham,  and  proceed  as  in  the  plain  omelet. 

EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK  found  corner  or  Folsom  and 
Twenty-first  streets,  S.  F. 

Corned  Beef  Omelet. 

Mince  very  fine  one  cup  of  boiled  corned  beef  ;  beat  two  eggs  thoroughly  ; 
mix  them  with  the  minced  beef,  then  add  one  tablespoonful  of  EWELL'S  X. 
L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  and  a  little  pepper  and  mustard  if  you  like  ; 
have  ready  a  hot  pan  well  buttered  ;  fry  quickly,  and  serve  hot. 

Raked   Omelet. 

One  pint  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK  ;  four  eggs 
beaten  separately  ;  scald  the  milk,  and  thicken  with  a  tablespoon  of  flour  ;  let 
it  cool  a  little  ;  add  the  yolks,  white,  and  salt ;  pour  into  a  buttered  dish,  and 
bake  until  it  rises  all  over  like  a  custard. 

Omelet. 

Six  eggs  ;  whites  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth  ;  yolks  well  beaten ;  one  teacup  of 
EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK  ;  warm  with  tablespoonful  of 
melted  butter  ;  stir  in  one  tablespoon  of  flour,  wet  to  a  paste  ;  little  salt ;  mix 
all  except  the  whites,  add  them  last ;  cook  immediately  about  ten  minutes,, 
then  fold  like  a  turnover. 

EWELL'S    X.  L.  DAIRY   BOTTLED  MILK 

Will  make  the  complexion  as  smooth  as  silk. 

X  I,.  DAIRY   BOXXI.E1> 

PUREST  AND  BEST  IN  THE  WORLD. 


60 

MACDONALD'S 

CRACKER  STORE 


1120  MARKET  ST., 

Between  Mason  and  Taylor, 

SAN  FRANCISCO,    -    -    CALIFORNIA 


THE  ONLY  PLACE  IN  TOWN  WHERE  YOU  CAN  GET  REALLY 

FRESH    CRACKERS  and  BISCUITS. 


lO-ponnd  Boxes,  Assorted 

5  Hinge   Tins, 

2          "  Tins,       - 


SPECIAL  TERMS  TO  HOTELS  AND  BOARDING  HOUSES. 

Delivered  *  Kree. 


BO! EN  AND  TINS  PACKED  TO  ORDER. 

Charcoal    Biscuits  for    Dyspepsia.     Unsweetened,    Graham    Crackers   for 
Indigestion. 

J.  G.  MACDONALD, 

F*RO  F»R  I ETTO  R. 


61 

Corn  Omelet. 

Take  half  a  cup  of  canned  com  ;  chop  it  very  fine,  and  to  that  add  the 
yolk  of  an  egg,  well  beaten  ;  pepper  and  salt  to  taste  ;  two  tablespoons  of 
EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK  ;  beat  the  white  of  the  egg  to  a 
stiff  froth,  and  stir  it  in  just  before  cooking  ;  have  the  griddle  very  hot  and 
bubtered,  and  pour  the  mixture  on,  and  when  brown,  turn  over  as  in  other 
omelet. 

Corn   Oysters. 

Grate  young,  sweet  corn,  and  to  a  pint  add  one  egg  well  beaten  ;  small 
teacup  of  flour  ;  half  a  gill  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK; 
teaspoon  of  salt  ;  mix  well  together,  and  drop  into  boiling  fat  in  spoonfuls  the 
size  of  an  oyster. 

.  I  :i  I^uisse. 


Spread  the  bottom  of  a  dish  with  two  ounces  of  fresh  butter  ;  cover  this 
with  grated  cheese  ;  break  eight  whole  eggs  upon  the  cheese  without  break- 
ing the  yolks  ;  season  with  red  pepper  ;  pour  a  little  of  EWELL'S  X.  L. 
DAIRY  BOTTLED  CREAM,  on  the  surface;  strew  about  two  ounces  of  grated 
cheese  on  the  top,  and  set  in  a  moderate  oven  for  about  fifteen  minutes,  or 
long  enough  to  brown  it. 

Stuffed   Eggs. 

Six  hard  boiled  eggs  cut  in  two  ;  take  out  the  yolks,  and  mash  fine  ;  then 
add  two  teaspoons  of  butter  ;  one  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED 
CREAM  ;  three  drops  of  onion  juice  ;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste  ;  mix  all  thor- 
oughly, and  fill  the  eggs  with  this  mixture  ;  put  together,  then  there  will  be  a 
little  of  the  filling  left,  to  which  add  one  well-beaten  egg  ;  cover  the  eggs  with 
this  mixture,  and  then  roll  in  cracker  crumbs  ;  fry  a  light  brown  in  boiling 
fat. 

l>utcli    Omelet. 

Break  eight  eggs  into  a  basin  ;  season  with  pepper  and  salt  ;  add  two 
ounces  of  butter  cut  small  ;  beat  these  well,  together  ;  make  an  ounce  of  butter 
hot  in  a  frying  pan  ;  put  the  eggs  in  ;  continue  to  stir  it,  drawing  it  away  from 
the  sides,  so  that  it  may  be  evenly  done;  when  the  under  side  is  a  little  browned, 
turn  the  omelet  into  a  dish,  and  serve  ;  this  must  be  cooked  over  a  moderate 
fire. 

To  Test  Eggs. 

Put  them  in  water  —  if  the  large  end  turns  up,  they  are  not  fresh. 

To  Keep  Eggs  Fresh. 

To  three  gallons  of  water,  put  of  unslacked  lime  and  coarse  salt  each  a 
pint  ;  keep  in  a  cool  place,  and  put  the  eggs  in,  as  fresr  "as  possible  ;  with  the 
small  end  down. 

Soft  Boiled  Eggs. 

Place  the  eggs  ia  a  sauce  pan,  and  cover  with  boiling  water  /let  them  stand 
where  they  will  keep  hot,  but  not  boil,  for  eight  minutes. 

Hard  Boiled  Eggs. 

Place  your  eggs  in  a  sauce  pan,  cover  with  cold  water,  set  them  over  a  brisk 
fire,  let  them  boil  two  minutes. 

0 

Dropped  Eggs. 

Have  one  pint  of  boiling  water  and  one  teaspoon|of  salt  in  a  sauce  pan  ; 
break  the  eggs,  one  by  one,  into  a  saucer,  and  slide  into  the  boiling  water  ;  cook 
until  the  white  is  firm,  lift  out  carefully  and  placemen  toasted  bread  ;  lay  a^small 
piece  of  butter  on  each  egg. 

EWELL'S  X.   L.  DAIRY  furnishes  the  purest  and  best  milk  in.the  world. 


62 

pounds  of  milk,  or  five  thousand  quart  bottles,  are  all  filled  and 
sealed,  and  put  away  in  the  cold  storage  chamber  in  boxes  of 
one  dozen  each,  ready  for  the  heavy  teams  to  bring  them  into 
town. 

Not  the  least  of  the  difficulties  of  producing  such  an  immense 
quantity  of  milk  is  the  procuring  and  having  on  hand  the  feed 
for  seven  hundred  and  fifty  cows,  for,  as  before  stated,  while 
the  cows  are  up  to  their  knees  in  rich  grass,  they  are  fed  daily 
seven  and  one-half  tons  of  other  food,  such  as  has  been  hereto- 
fore mentioned — viz.:  Wheat,  peas,  beans,  Egyptian  corn, 
broom  corn  seed,  middlings,  corn  and  bran  in  combination, 
varying  according  to  the  season  and  cooked  to  the  consistency 
of  mush,  amounting  to  about  four  tons.  In  addition  there  is 
fed  daily  three  and  one-half  tons  of  burr  clover  hay,  and  from 
two  to  three  tons  of  squash,  fed  green,  when  it  can  be  had. 

This  will  give  the  reader  some  idea  of  what  it  is  to  run  a 
large  dairy,  and  yet  Mr.  Bwell  considers  his  business  but  in  its 
infancy. 

On  the  sixth  page  of  this  book  will  be  found  the  advertise- 
ment of  the  Pacific  Bank,  the  oldest  incorporated  bank  in  San 
Francisco.  With  its  large  resources,  conservative  management 
and  correspondents  all  over  the  world,  its  facilities  for  doing 
your  banking  business  are  second  to1  none.  At  the  Pacific 
Bank  you  can  always  depend  upon  courteous  treatment,  and 
all  the  accommodations  required  at  such  an  institution. 

On  the  8th  page  the  advertisement  of  The  Old  Connecticut 
Mutual  Life  Insurance  Company  of  Hartford,  Connecticut,  will 
be  seen.  To  anyone  contemplating  insuring  their  life,  our 
advice  would  be,  do  not  do  so,  before  calling  upon  their  agent 
in  this  city,  Mr.  F.  R.  Noyes,  at  315  California  street. 

On  the  loth  page  the  card  of  that  old  reliable  dentist,  Dr. 
C.  O.  Dean,  who  has  had  his  office  in  the  same  apartments 
for  15  years,  and  whose  reputation  is  too  well  established  to 
need  commendation  from  us. 

Continued  on  page  66. 
See  the  Battle  of  Gettysburg  at  market  and  Tenth 


63 

A  Nourishing  Omelet. 

Dissolve  a  tablespoouful  of  beef  extract  in  half  at  cup  of  hot  water,  and  stir 
into  it  half  a  cup  of  the  crust  of  whole  wheat  bread  rolled  fine  ;  let  them  soak 
over  the  kettle  while  you  beat  the  yolks  and  whites  of  two  eggs,  stir  the  crumbs 
into  the  yolks,  add  a  dash  of  salt  and  pepper,  then  stir  the  whites  in  lightly ; 
cook  in  a  hot,  buttered  omelet  pan  ;  garnish  with  parsley. 

EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK  for  the  sick. 
Bread  Omelet. 

One  cup  of  fine  bread  crumbs  moistened  with  half  a  cup  of  EWELL'S  X. 
L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  three  eggs  beaten  separately,  adding  the  whites 
last,  season  with  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  put  in  the  frying  pan  a  good  piece  of 
butter,  and  when  hot,  pour  in  the  omelet  ;  leave  on  the  stove  a  short  time  and 
finish  in  the  oven. 

Asparagus  Omelet. 

Boil  tender  asparagus  in  little  water  with  a  small  portion  of  salt,  chop  it 
very  fine,  mix  it  with  the  yolks  of  five  and  whites  of  three  well  beaten  eggs, 
add  two  teaspoonf uls  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  CREAM  ;  fry  and 
serve  quite  hot. 

Scrambled  Eggs. 

Five  eggs,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  beat  the  eggs,  and  add  half  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt  to  them  ;  melt  the  butter  in  a  saucepan,  turn  in  the  eggs,  stir 
briskly  over  a  hot  fire  for  one  minute,  and  serve  immediately. 

Egg  Omelet. 

Six  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately,  half  pint  of  EWELL'S  X.  L. 
DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  six  teaspoons  corn  starch,  one  teaspoon  baking 
'    powder,  salt'to  taste  ;  beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  last  cooked  in  hot 
butter. 

Fricasseed  Eggs. 

Boil  hard  six  eggs,  and  cut  them  into  slices,  then  make  a  sauce  as  follows  : 
Chop  very  fine  a  small  onion,  a  little  parsley  and  two  mushrooms,  put  them  into 
a  stew  pan  with  two  table*poonsful  of  butter,  salt  and  pepper;  let  them  stew 
gently,  but  do  not  brown  them  ;  then  add  one  half  cup  of  EWELL'S  X.  L. 
DAIRY  BOTTLED  CREAM,  mixed  with  a  little  flour  for  thickening  the  sauce, 
lay  the  sliced  eggs  in;  let  them  come  to  a  boil  and  serve. 

Curried   Eggs. 

Slice  two  onions  and  fry  brown  in  butter,  adda  tablespoon  of  curry-powder 
and  one  pint  of  stock,  stew  until  onions  are  tender,  add  half  pint  of  EWELLS' 
X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  CREAM,  thickened  with  arrowroot  of  flour,  sim- 
mer a  few  moments,  then  add  eight  hard  boiled  eggs,  cut  in  slices ;  stir  them 
well  but  do  not  let  them  boil. 

Omelet   Ait  Natural. 

Break  eight  eggs  into  a  basin,  add  a  small  teaspoonful  of  salt  and  a  little 
pepper,  with  a  tablespoonful  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK; 
beat  the  whole  well  with  a  spoon.  In  the  meantime  put  some  butter  into  an 
omelet  pan,  and  when  it  is  nearly  hot,  put  in  an  omelet.  When  the  eggs  are 
set  and  one  side  is  a  fine  brown,  double  half  over,  and  serve  hot. 

Scrambled  Eggs. 

Break  eight  eggs  into  a  basin,  add  to  them  a  tablespoonful  of  sweet  but- 
ter, cut  into  bits.  When  the  pan  is  hot,  pour  in  the  eggs,  and  let  them  cook. 
Stir  them  with  a  silver  spoon  until  they  are  just  set,  without  becoming  hard; 
serve  on  toast. 

USE   EWEL,L'S   X.   1*.    IH  1 1C  V    BOTTLED  JIIJLK, 

PUREST   AND   BEST   IN    THE   WORLD. 


64 


WHOLESALE  AND  RETAIL  AGENCY 

For  etll  common  and  adjustable 


.A.lso     Papier     Miaclie     Forms 
Made    to    Order. 


—  TAUGHT   BY   THE— 


STDDABECKER'S  TAILOR  SQUARE, 

And  Perfect  Patterns  Cut  to  Measure. 

W.  M.  LOUDON, 

224  Stockton  St   near  Post,  San  Francisco. 


EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  the  purest  and  best  in  the 
world. 

Wench  Omelets. 

Break  eight  eggs  into  a  basin,  season  with  a  little  salt  and  pepper,  and,  if 
liked,  mace  or  nutmeg;  add  two  tablespoons  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY 
BOTTLED  MILK,  two  of  butter  broken  in  bits,  and  a  little  parsley,  cut  small, 
if  liked  also  a  fine  chopped  onion.  Beat  these  ingredients  well  together  with 
a  spoon,  butter  the  pan,  let  it  become  boiling  hot,  and  pour  the  omelet  in  about 
one-half  inch  thick;  as  it  is  cooking  stir  it  with  a  spoon,  drawing  it  from  the 
side  to  the  center,  let  it  fry  gently;  when  it  is  a  clear  brown,  turn  it  into  a 
dish  and  serve. 

Breakfast  Omelets. 

It  is  better  to  make  two  or  three  small  omelets  than  one  large  one.    The 
should  be  slightly  beaten,  just  long  enough  to  mix  them;  a  tablespoonf ul  of 
ELL'L  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  CREAM  to  every  two  eggs;  sprinkle  a 
little  salt  just  before  turning  out  on  the  dish. 

Eggs  upon  Toast. 

Put  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  into  the  frying-pan.  When  hot  stir  in  five 
well- beaten  eggs,  with  salt,  pepper  and  a  little  parsley.  Stir  and  toss  for  three 
minutes.  Have  ready  some  slices  of  buttered  toast,  spread  thickly  with 
minced  cold  meats  of  any  kind.  Heap  the  stirred  eggs  upon  these  in  mounds, 
garnished  with  parsley  and  pickled  beets. 

Creamed  Eggs. 

Boil  six  eggs  twenty  minutes.  Thicken  one  pint  of  EWELL'S  X.  L. 
DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK;  have  six  slices  of  toast  on  a  hot  dish,  put  a  layer 
of  sauce  on  each  one,  and  part  of  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  cut  in  thin  strips; 
rub  the  yolks  through  a  sieve  on  to  the  toast.  Repeat  this  and  finish  with  a 
third  layer  of  sauce.  Place  in  the  oven  for  three  minutes,  garnish  with  pars- 
ley and  serve. 

Omelet  in  Batter. 

Fry  an  omelet;  when  done,  cut  it  in  squares;  dip  each  piece  in  batter 
made  of  two  eggs  and  a  half  pint  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED 
MILK,  fry  them  in  salted  lard  to  a  delicate  brown;  serve  hot. 

"  The  best  is  always  the  cheapest." 

USE   THE  BEST  OF   EVERYTHING, 

THE  BEST  IS  THE  CHEAPEST. 


65 

Curds   and  Cream. 

To  one  gallon  of  E WELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK  put  four  table- 
spoonfuls  of  prepared  rennet,  when  it  has  become  curd,  tie  it  loosely  in  a  thin 
cloth  or  bag,  hang  it  to  drain;  do  not  press  the  cloth;  when  well  drained,  put 
the  curd  in  a  bowl,  and  set  in  a  cool  place;  when  you  dish  it  if  there  is  whey 
in  the  bowl,  ladle  it  out  without  pressing  the  curd;  lay  it  on  a  deep  dish,  and 
pour  fresh  cream  over  it;  sprinkle  loaf  sugar  and  grated  nutmeg  over.  . 

Cream  Cheese. 

One  gallon  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK  (sour),  place  it 
over  a  slow  fire,  let  it  heat  gradually,  but  not  boil;  when  it  has  become  curd 
tie  it  loosely  in  a  thin  cloth,  and  hang  it  to  drain;  press  it  gently;  when  the 
whey  is  all  taken  out,  put  the  curd  into  a  deep  dish,  add  one  cup  of  fresh 
cream,  one  tablespoon  salt,  salt-spoon  of  red  pepper,  mix  thoroughly.  :  \2 

Welsh  Rarebit. 

Grate  one  pint  of  cheese;  sprinkle  on  it  half  a  teaspoonful  of  mustard, 
salt-spoon  of  cayenne  and  of  salt;  lay  this  on  slices  of  buttered  toast,  put  it 
in  the  hot  oven  for  a  few  minutes,  until  the  cheesejjmelts;  serve  hot.  '} 

"  Purest  and  the  best." 


Br?ead,  Biscuit,  muffins,1  Etc. 

Wheat  Bread, 

Have  your  oven  ready  for  baking  ;  sift  or  mix  thoroughly  two  quarts  of 
flour  and  four  teaspoons  baking  powder  and  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  stir  up  to  a 
soft  dough  with  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  knead  but  little, 
mould  and  bake  immediately. 

Vienna  Bread,  No.  1. 

Sift  into  a  tin  pan  four  pounds  of  flour,  bank  it  up.  against  the  sides,  pour 
in  one  quart  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  mix  into  it  enough 
flour  to  make  thin  batter  ;  then  quickly  add  one  pint  of  milk,  in  which  is  dis- 
solved one  ounce  of  salt  and  three  quarters  compressed  yeast.  Leave  the  re- 
mainder of  the  flour  against  the  sides  of  the  pan,  cover  the  pan  with  a 
cloth  and  set  in  a  place  free  from  draught  for  three-quarters  of  an  hour,  then 
mix  in  the  rest  of  the  flour  until  the  dough  will  leave  the  bottom  and  sides  of 
the  pan,  and  let  it  stand  two  hours  and  a  half  ;  finally  divide  the  mass  into  one 
pound  pieces,  to  be  cut  in  twelve  parts  each ;  this  gives  square  pieces  three 
inches  and  a  half  thick,  each  corner  of  which  is  taken  up  and  folded  over  to 
the  center,  and  then  the  cakes  are  turned  over  on  a  dough  board  to  raise  for 
half  an  hour,  when  they  are  put  in  a  hot  oven  that  bakes  them  in  ten  minutes. 

Vienna  Bread,  No.  2. 

Sift  four  pounds  flour,  pour  in  the  center  of  it  one  quart  of  EWELL'S  X. 
L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  mix  in  enough  flour  to  form  a  batter,  then  add 
one  pint  of  milk  and  one  cup  yeast.  Cover  the  pan  with  a  cloth  and  set  it  in 
warm  place  for  an  hoxir,  then  mix  in  flour  until  a  stiff  "dough  is  formed.  Let 
it  rise  in  warm  place  and  bake  quickly. 


Corn  Bread. 

Two  cups  fresh  meal,  one  cup  flour,  one  teaspoon  salt,  two  teaspoons  baking 
powder,  thoroughly  sifted  together ;  when  the  oven  is  hot,  add  two  well  beaten 
eggs,  two  teaspoons  softened  butter,  half  a  cup  of  syrup,  stir  all  with  EWELL'S 
X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK  to  a  soft  dough  ;  place  in  a  pan  and  bake 
immediately. 


66 

On  page  14  the  advertisement  of  Jas.  G.  Steele  &  Co.,  Chem- 
ists and  Druggists,  appears.  This  firm  are  manufacturers  and 
sole  proprietors  of  many  well  known  and  valuable  remedies 
and  compounds,  as  well  as  agents  for  many  others,  and  while 
they  do  not,  in  their  advertisement  brag  of  their  age,  there  are 
few  better  known  druggists  in  this  -city  than  James  G.  Steele. 

On  page  22  we  have  placed  the  advertisement  of  Boericke  & 
Schreck,  Homoeopathic  Pharmacy,  manufacturers  and  impor- 
ters— both  wholesale  and  retail.  This  firm  was  established  in 
in  1870,  and  makes  a  specialty  of  Family  medicines  in  cases. 

On  page  28 — that  of  Mark  Strouse,  wholesale  and  retail 
butcher,  judging  from  the  size  of  his  store  one  would  think 
that  Mark  would  like  to  own,  if  not  the  earth,  certainly  he 
aims  to  do  all  the  butcher  business  of  the  town.  His  mam- 
moth refrigerator  is  one  of  the  sights  of  San  Francisco  and  at- 
tracts great  attention. 

On  page  34,  Messrs.  McAlester  &  Jones,  set  forth  their 
claim  of  having  the  best  regulated  Real  Estate  Office  in  San 
Francisco.  They  are  men  of  great  experience  in  the  business, 
and  for  twenty-five  years  have  made  a  study  of  the  wants  of 
landlords  and  tenants,  and  are  reliable,  prompt,  and  respon- 
sible. 

On  page  36,  A.  F.  Green,  Broker  in  Real  Estate,  throws 
out  his  card  to  the  public.  Mr.  Green  buys  and  sells  real 
estate  on  commission,  negotiates  loans,  affects  insurance,  rents 
houses,  collects  rents,  and  takes  full  charge  of  property  for  ab- 
sentees or  others. 

On  page  38,  Dickey's  Cream  de  lyis  advertisement  is  il- 
lustrated by  a  cut  of  a  beautiful  lady.  This  well-known  pre- 
paration for  beautifying  the  complexion  is  sold  by  all  drug- 
gists. 

Messrs.  Jacobs  &  Easton  come  next  in  our  list  of  adver- 
tisers  on  page  44.  They  have  moved  their  office  since  this 

page  was  printed,  andean  be  found  now  at  312  Pine  street. 
This  firm  represent  ten  large  Eastern  Insurance  Companies, 
and  are  local  agents  for  three  large  Foreign  Companies  with  an 
aggregated  capital  of  about  forty  million  (40,000,000)  dollars. 

Continued  on  page  70. 
Pacific  Bank  Sells  I>rafts  on  every  Important  City. 


67 

4«r:i1iaiit  Bread. 

One  quart  of  flour  and  two  heaping  teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  sifted 
together.  One  cup  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  salt ;  wet  with  SWELL'S  X.  L. 
DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK  to  stiff  batter  and  place  at  once  in  hot  oven. 

Insist  on  having  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  purest  and 
best  in  the  world. 

French  Rolls,  No.  1. 

Mix  thoroughly  one  quart  of  flour  with  three  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  pow- 
der ;  rub  in  one  ounce  of  sweet  butter  or  lard  and  salt,  add  one  beaten  egg  and 
as  much  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK  as  will  make  soft 
dough,  roll  and  cut  out  large  sized  cakes,  wet  half  of  top  and  fold  over ;  bake 
immediately. 

French  Rolls,  No.  3. 

At  noon,  scald  a  pint  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK, 
then  let  it  cool  ;  sift  two  quarts  of  flour,  into  which  rub  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
butter,  and  then  make  a  hole  in  the  center ;  stir  a  spoonful  of  yeast  and  two 
spoonfuls  of  sugar  into  your  milk,  then  put  all  into  the  center  of  your  flour  ; 
let  it  stand  several  hours  till  foamy,  then  mix  in  all  the  flour,  cover  and  set  it 
away  over  night.  In  the  morning  it  will  be  found  nicely  risen  ;  knead  it  a  very 
little  on  the  board  ;  roU  out,  not  too  thin,  spread  over  with  butter,  and  cut  in 
round,  lapping  one  edge.  Do  not  place  the  rolls  near  together  in  the  pans  ;  let 
them  rise  about  two  hours,  then  bake  them  in  a  quick  oven  about  twenty 
minutes. 

Vienna,  Rolls. 

Sift  two  or  three  times  one  quart  of  flour  with  two  heaping  teaspoonfuls  of 
baking  powder,  rub  in  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  and  half  teaspoonful  salt ;  stir 
all  to  a  dough  with  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK  ;  take  small 
pieces  of  dough,  roll  them  into  small  round  lumps,  cut  them  across  slightly 
-each  way  once  with  a  sharp  knife,  set  them  in  tins  not  touching  each  other, 
brush  them  over  with  milk,  or  butter  melted  in  milk,  and  bake. 

EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  purest  and  best  in  the  world. 
Velvet  Rolls. 

Three  pints  of  flour ;  three-fourths  of  a  cup  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY 
BOTTLED  MILK. ;  one  teacup  of  hop  yeast ;  three  eggs  ;  two  tablespoons  lard,; 
work  well ;  let  rise  ;  work,  and  let  rise  again  ;  make  in  rolls  and  bake  when 
light. 

English  Biscuit. 

Two  pints  of  flour  ;  three-fourths  cup  of  corn  starch  ;  three  tablespoons  of 
•sugar ;  teaspoon  salt ;  two  teaspoons  baking  powder  ;  two  tablespoons  butter ; 
one  egg,  two  cups  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK;  roll  half 
an  inch  thick  ;  rub  over  with  milk  ;  lay  on  buttered  tins  and  bake. 

launch  Biscuit. 

One  pint  of  flour  ;  one  tablespoon  of  butter  ;  three  of  sugar  ;  three  eggs  ; 
three  teaspoons  baking  powder  sifted  with  the  flour,  pinch  of  salt ;  two-thirds 
of  a  cup  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK  ;  cut  out  into  biscuits 
and  bake. 

Soda  Biscuit. 

Sift  one  quart  of  flour  with  two  teaspoons  of  baking  powder  ;  one  of  salt 
and  one  tablespoon  of  white  sugar  ;  rub  in  one  tablespoon  and  a  half  o  butter: 
wet  with  half  a  pint  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK;  roll  on 
board  about  an  inch  thick  ;  bake  in  quick  oven. 

USE  ran:  BEST  OF  EVERYTHING, 

THE  BEST  IS  THE  CHEAPEST. 


68 
.***££***. 


Takes  pleasure  in  informing  the  Public,  that  in  addition  to  his  extensive- 
facilities  for 


General  Mercantile  Printing 

he  has  the  very  best  facilities  for  printing  Plain  or  in  Colors, 
every  description  of 

POSTS  RS 

For  Amusements,  Manufacturers,  Clubs,  Heal  Estate  Dealers,  Etc. 

-» SHOWBILLS*  PROGRAMMES  ^AND  *  TICKETS**- 

Managers  of  Theatres,  Lectures,  Excursions  and  Picnics  will  find  it  16- 
their  advantage  to  give  me  a  call  before  engaging  their  work. 

Billheads,    Cards,    Circulars,    etc.;  also  Real  Estate  Posters,  on 

Cloth  or  Paper. 

Having  a  very  large  Assortment  of  Display  and  Fancy  Types,  Borders 
and  Engravings,  I  am  prepared  to  meet  the  wants  of  the  Public  in  any  de- 
scription of  work  in  the  printing  line.  Books,  Pamphlets,  Catalogues,  Briefs, 
Transcripts,  etc.,  executed  in  the  best  style,  having  large  fonts  of  new  and 
beautiful  type.  All  work  done  in  my  own  establishment,  as  I  am  well  sup- 
plied with  all  the  requisite  Presses,  Material  and  Steam  Power.  Small  as- 
well  as  large  orders  promptly  filled  at  LOWEST  BATES.  Orders  from  the 
interior  cities  and  towns  promptly  executed. 

B.  F.   STERETT, 

632  CLAY  STREET,  SAN  FRANCISCO. 


69 

4; r:i  !i:i  m  Biscuit. 

Two  cups  and  a  half  of  graham  flour  ;  one  cup  and  a  half  of  wheat  flour ; 
two  teaspoons  baking  powder  ;  sift  together  ;  rub  in  two  tablespoons  of  butter, 
«alt,  half  a  cup  of  sugar,  one  egg,  and  enough  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY 
BOTTLED  MILK  to  make  soft  dough  ;  roll  out,  and  bake  at  once. 

A  teaspoonful  of  turpentine  boiled  with  white  clothes  will  aid  the  whiten- 
ing process. 

Muffins,  No.  1. 

Beat  well  the  yolks  and  whites  of  five  eggs  separately ;  to  the  yolks  add 
two  pints  and  a  half  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  two 
teaspoonf uls  baking  powder,  salt,  stir  in  enough  flour  to  make  batter,  then  add 
whites  of  eggs,  one  half  cup  butter,  drop  into  gem  pans  and  bake  immediately, 

Muffins,  No.  2. 

Mix  one  heaping  toaspoonful  of  baking  powder  and  a  little  salt  in  one 
-pint  of  flour;  add  to  the  beaten  yolks  of  three  eggs  two-thirds  teacup  of 
EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  CREAM,  a  piece  of  butter  melted  half 
the  size  of  an  egg,  the  flour  with  the  baking  powder  and  salt  mixed,  and  the 
well  beaten  whites  of  two  eggs.  Beat  well,  bake  immediately  in  gem  pans 
in  hot  oven  and  send  to  the  table  at  once. 

Rice  Waffles. 

One  and  one-half  pints  of  boiled  rice  mixed  with  half  a  teacup  of  butter, 
pint  of  flour,  teaspoon  of  baking  powder,  half  a  teaspoon  of  salt,  seven  eggs, 
and  enough  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  CREAM  to  make  thin 
batter.  Beat  very  light. 

Snow  Balls. 

One  cup  of  white  sugar,  one  and  one-third  cups  of  EWELL'S  X.  L. 
DAIRY'  BOTTLED  CREAM,  whites  of  four  eggs,  two  teaspoons  baking  pow- 
der, flour  to  make  batter.  Bake  in  buttered  cups. 

<»ruli:im  Griddle  Cakes* 

Equal  parts  of  graham  and  wheat  flour,  one  quart,  two  and  one-half  tea- 
spoons baking  powder ;  wet  to  a  batter  with  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOT- 
TLED MILK;  salt. 

Boston  babies  cry  for  beans ;  Frisco  babies  for  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY 
BOTTLED  MILK. 

Bread.  Cakes. 

Soak  a  loaf  of  bread  in  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK  (sour) 
until  soft,  rub  through  a  colander,  and  to  one  quart  add  the  yolks  of  three  eggs, 
one  teaspoon  of  salt,  one  of  soda,  two  tablespoons  sugar,  with  flour  to  make 
batter,  lastly  the  whites  of  the  eggs ;  bake  on  greased  griddle. 

Flannel  Cakes. 

One  and  one-half  pints  of  flour,  one  tablespoon  brown  sugar,  two  teaspoons 
baking  powder,  one  teaspoon  salt,  three  eggs,  and  a  pint  of  EWELL'S  X.  L. 
DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK;  bake  on  greased  griddle. 

Rice  Griddle  Cakes. 

Two  cups  boiled  rice,  one  pint  of  flour,  one  tablespoon  sugar,  half  a  teaspoon 
salt,  two  teaspoons  baking  powder,  two  eggs,  and  scant  half  cup  of  EWELL'S 
X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK ;  bake  brown. 

K WBU.I/S  X.  I,.  DAIRY  BOTTLJ2I>  I?IIL,K. 

PUREST  AND  BEST  IN  THE  WORLD. 


70 

Ball  of  the  Bottles. 


BY  AUN*T  FANNY  ANN. 

It  was  New  Year's  night,  and  all  the  house  was  wrapped  in 
slumber.  The  beautiful  young  ladies  of  the  family,  after  the 
festivities  of  the  day,  were  dreaming  the  pleasures  all  over 
again,  and  enjoying  them  with  even  greater  zest.  The  fire,, 
too,  had  settled  down  to  a  quiet  nap,  with  just  a  few  red  coals 
glowing  to  keep  itself  warm.  The  cat  on  the  hearth  had 
ceased  her  purring,  and  gave  forth  a  little  snore,  now  and  then. 
The  sweet  flowers  that  decorated  the  elegant  rooms,  had 
drooped  their  lovely  heads,  and  they  too  slept. 

But  strange  to  say,  on  the  side  board,  which  had  been  trans- 
ferred to  the  back  parlor,  all  was  bustle  and  merriment. 

"  Now,"  spoke  up  a  little  fat  jug  of  Curaco,  "  we  are  ready, 
but  there  are  so  many  late — why  must  some  bottles,  like 
humans,  be  always  late  !  " 

"  Now,  Mrs.  Curaco,"  spoke  up  Mr.  Whiskey,  a  little  thick- 
ly, "  you  can't  shay  that  of  me.  I've  been  here  all  day — and 
— and — night,  too." 

"Yes,  you  and  Mr.  Gin  are  very  faithful.  As  for  that,  Mr. 
Brandy,  too.  You  stick  closer  than  a  brother,  if  once  one  is 
at  all  friendly  with  you." 

"  O,  yesh,  yesh!  we  don't  forsake  a  friend,  specially  if  he's 
got  the  cash,"  grinned  Mr.  Whiskey. 

"But  there's  little  Miss  Ketchup,  the  pert  little  thing, — and 
Miss  Pepper  Sauce — these  two  think  they  are  the  world,  and 
try  and  snub  me  sometimes,  and  call  me  "fat,"  but  when  I 
shine  in  a  beautiful  bright  flame  on  a  big  plum  pudding,  I  can 
see  they  nearly  faint  with  envy,  specially  when  somebody  si 
making  wry  faces,  because  of  too  much  of  their  company," 
and  Mrs.  Curaco  smoothed  out  her  seal-brown  dress,  and 
tittered. 

"Yes,"  Said  Mr.  Brandy,  in  a  deep  voice,  that  seemed  to 
come  from  the  bottom  of  his  boots,  ' '  this  envy  is  a  dreadful 
thing,  the  inferior  qualities, ' '  casting  a  sidelong  look  at  Mr. 
Whisky,  who  luckily  did  not  notice  it,  or  the  party  might, 
have  been  broken  up  before  it  had  begun— "are  constantly 
envying  and  aping  we  of  the  tipper  ten, ' '  and  he  swelled  his 
portly  person  out  to  the  fullest  extent.  ' '  But  here  comes  Miss 
Vinegar — How  do  you  do,  happy  New  Year,  and  may  you, 
have  many  of  them,"  and  he  almost  embraced  her  in  his  warm 
effusion  of  good  wishes,  for  it  was  a  well-known  fact  in  bottle 
society  that  fat  Mr.  Brandy  was  a  little  ' '  struck  ' '  on  slim  Miss 
Vinegar. 

Soon  the  bottles   began   to  come  in  two's  and  three's  and 

Continued  on  page  76. 
Deposit  Your  Saying's  with  Peoples'  Home  Sayings  Bank. 


71 

Bread  Dumplings* 

Soak  a  pint  and  a  half  of  bread  crumbs  in  EWELL'S  X.^  L,  DAIRY 
BOTTLED  MILK,  mix  with  two  beaten  eggs,  two  teaspoons  baking  powder,  a 
little  flour  ;  mix  all  together,  stir  to  a  soft  dough  by  adding  milk  and  flour, 
drop  from  a  spoon  into  stewing  veal  or  chicken  when  the  meat  will  be  done  in 
half  an  hour  ;  when  the  dumplings  rise  to  the  surface  they  are  done. 

Crust  for  iflcat  Pies. 

One  quart  of  flour,  three  teaspoons  baking  powder,  two  and  a  half  table- 
spoons lard,  well  mixed  in  two  and  a  half  cupfuls  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY 
BOTTLED  MILK,  a  little  salt  ;  work  quickly  and  do  not  make  it  very  stiff. 

No  milk  will  remove  a  wet  ink  stain  as  quickly  as  'EWELL'S  X.  L. 
DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK. 

Rye  and  Indian  JLoaf. 

Four  cups  of  Indian  meal,  one  and  one-half  cups  rye  meal,  'one  cup  molasses, 
one  teaspoon  soda,  a  little  salt  and  a  quart  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOT- 
TLED MILK  (sour)  ;  boil  steadily  and  gently  four  hours  in  a  steamer. 

Brown  Bread. 

Two  and  one-half  cups  corn  meal,  two  and  one-half  of  graham  flour,  one  of 
molasses,  one  teaspoon  even  full  of  soda  dissolved  in  a  cup  of  EWELL'S  X.  L. 
DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  one  quart  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED 
MILK,  a  little  salt  ;  pour  into  your  steam  kettle  and  steam  for  four  hours. 

Indian  and  Graham  Bread. 

One  cup  and  one-half  of  corn  meal,  one  and  one-half  cups  graham  flour, 
two  cups  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  one  cup  of  EWELL'S 
X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  (sour),  half  a  cup  of  syrup,  a  little  salt; 
steam  three  or  four  hours  over  a  hot  fire. 

Fresh  Rolls. 

Take  about  four  pints  of  flour,  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  large  walnut, 
mix  with  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK  (warm)  ;  the  whites  of 
three  eggs,  well  beaten,  two  tablespoons  of  yeast  ;  when  risen  make  into  rolls, 
let  them  stand  to  rise  again,  and  then  bake  in  a  quick  oven  ;  a  little  salt. 

Parker  House  Rolls. 

Scald  about  a  quart  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  let  it 
stand  till  cold;  live  pints  of  flour,  rub  a  large  tablespoon  of  lard  into 
flour,  make  a  hole  in  the  flour  and  pour  in  the  milk,  having  mixed  with 
the  milk  one  large  spoon  of  sugar,  a  little  salt  and  half  a  cup  of  yeast  ; 
sift  a  little  flour  over  the  whole  and  let  it  stand  till  risen  ;  then  knead  it  well, 
let  it  rise  again,  cut  with  a  pint  pail  cover,  and  fix  like  a  turn-over,  let  them 
rise  again,  bake  twenty  minutes. 

Milk  which  is  turned  or  changed  may  be  sweetened  and  rendered  fit  for 
use  again  by  stirring  in  a  little  soda. 

Breakfast  Cakes,  No.  1. 

Three  cups  flour,  one  and  one-half  cups  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY 
BOTTLED  MILK,  half  cup  sugar,  three  eggs,  two  teaspoons  yeast  powder; 
bake  in  gems;  a  little  salt. 

Breakfast  Cakes,  No.  2. 

One-half  cup  of  melted  butter,  two  tablespoons  sugar,  two  -thirds  cup 
of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  three  eggs,  three  and  a  half 
cups  flour,  two  teaspoons  yeast  powder,  a  little  salt;  bake  m  gems. 


USE  EWEL.E,'S  X.   I>.   ]>A1RY   BOTTt,EI>   MIJLK, 

PUREST  AND  BEST  IN  THE  WORLD. 


72 

Breakfast  Cakes,  No.  3. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  and  a  half  of  SWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  EOT- 
TLED  MILK,  two-thirds  cup  of  melted  butter,  four  eggs,  one  quart  flour, 
two  teaspoons  yeast  powder  ;  bake  twenty  minutes. 

Breakfast  Cream  Cakes. 

One  pint  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  CREAM,  four  eggs,  a 
littlejsalt,  flour  for  a  good  batter,  about  four  cups;  bake  in  gems  or  rings  in  a 
quick  oven. 

Potato  JBiscuit. 

Two  large  potatoes,  a  piece  of  butter  half  size  of  an  egg,  one  pint  and  a 
half  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  half  a  teaspoon  salt,  flour 
enough  to  make  soft  batter,  a  tablespoon  brewer's  yeast.  Put  the  potatoes 
through  the  colander,  rub  the  butter  into  the  flour  and  stir  into  the  milk,  a 
little  warmed,  and  salt  and  yeast;  let  it  rise  from  twenty  minutes  to  half 
an  hour,  then  knead  it  well  and  set  to  rise  another  half  hour,  mould  into 
biscuits;  let  them  stand  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes  and  bake. 

Milk  Toast. 

Boil  one  quart  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK  'and  one- 
third  pound_butter ;  toastjyour  slices  of  bread  brown,  and  pour  the  milk  over 
hot. 

Rusks. 

Two-thirds*pint  of  warm  milk, in  which  you  have  put  half  a  cup  butter,  half 
a  teacup  sugar,  and  three  large  spoons  yeast;  flour  sufficient  to  make  light 
paste;  let  it  rise  and  bake  in  small  loaves;  when  cold,  slice  and  place  in  oven  to 
brown. 

Graham  Gems. 

One  cup  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK  (sour),  half  a  tea- 
spoon soda,  dissolved  and  put  in  the  milk,  a  little  salt,  a  large  spoon  sugar,  one 
egg,  and  flour  sufficient  tojmake  soft  batter;  bake  in  gem  pans. 

Hominy  Muffins. 

Beat  smoothf  two  cups  boiled  hominy,  stir  in  two  cups  and  a  half  of 
EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  one-half  cup  melted  butter,  two 
tablespoons  white  sugar,  four  eggs  well  beaten,  one  scant  teaspoon  soda  dis- 
solved in  hot  water,  one  large  cup  flour;  bake  in  gems. 

Muffins,  No.  3. 

Five  eggs,  half  a  cup  sugar,  half  a  cup  butter,  half  a  cup  yeast,  one  pint 
and  a  half  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  flour  sufficient  for 
a  stiff  batter;  when  well  risen,  bake  quickly  in  gem  pans. 

l>elicate  Corn  Muffins. 

>/"r9  Two  tablespoons  white  sugar  and  three  eggs  beaten  together;  add  three 
cups  and  a  half  of  flour  with  two  teaspoons  yeast  powder  sifted  through  it;  one 
heaping  tablespoon  cornmeal,  one  cup  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED 
MILK,  one  tablespoon  melted  butter,  a  little  salt;  bake  in  gem  pans  fifteen 
minutes. 

Bread  and  milk  is  always  a  treat  to  healthy  childhood's  appetite.  It  is  an 
absolute  delicacy  if  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK  be  used. 

Quick  Muffins. 

One  quart  flour,  one  tablespoon  heaped  of  butter,  two  teaspoons  yeast  pow- 
der, two  tablespoons  sugar,  four  eggs,  a  little  salt,  sufficient  of  EWELL'S  X. 
L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK  to  make  soft  batter;  bake  as  above. 


73 

Muffins,  No.  4. 

Three  teacups  flour,  one  teaspoon  and  a  half  of  yeast  powder,  a  little  salt, 
three  eggs,  one  tablespoon  melted  butter,  milk  for  thick  batter. 

Jump-Up. 

Two-thirds  cup  of  E WELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  one  cup 

flour,  two  eggs  well  beaten;  bake  in  gem  pans;  a  little  salt. 

Breakfast  Cakes. 

Take  a  pint  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK  (sour),  a  tea- 
spoon  of  soda  dissolved  and  put  in  the  milk,  a  little  salt  and  one  egg;  stir  in 
flour  to  make  a  very  stiff  batter;  drop  them  into  hot  fat  by  a  large  spoon,  fry- 
ing them  as  you  would  doughnuts;  serve  them  with  cold  sauce,  made  from  boil- 
ing sugar  and  water,  flavored  as  you  like.  Do  not  cut  them  when  eaten,  but 
pull  them  apart. 

Jokers. 

A  cup  and  one-half  of  graham  meal,  a  cup  and  a  half  of  flour,  a  little  salt, 
two  eggs  well  beaten,  added  after  flour  and  milk  are  mixed  to  a  batter  as  thick 
as  pound  cake;  bake  in  quick  oven;  two  teaspoons  yeast  powder. 

Oatmeal  Cake. 

One  cup  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  CREAM,  two  cups  of 
EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK  (sour),  two  tablespoons  sugar, 
one  full  teaspoon  soda  put  in  the  sour  milk,  one  egg,  and  oatmeal  sufficient  to 
make  thick  batter. 

Graham  Muffins. 

Three  cups  Graham  flour,    three  teaspoons  yeast  powder,  two  eggs,  one 
large  spoon  melted  butter,  two-thirds  pint   EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOJ 
TLED  MILK,  a  little  salt,  a  large  spoon  molasses  or  brown  sugar. 

Corn  Meal  Muffins. 

Two  cups  corn  meal  scalded  with  as  little  water  as  possible  ;  one  cup 
flour,  one  cup  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  one  large  spoon 
butter,  melted,  one  egg,  one-half  cup  brown  sugar,  a  little  salt,  and  yeast 
sufficient  to  raise  them. 

.1  oh  nny  Cake. 

Boil  two-thirds  of  a  pint  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK, 
pour  it  on  one  and  one-half  cups  corn  meal ;  beat  fifteen  minutes  ;  add  a  little 
salt,  half  a  cup  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK  (sour),  three 
eggs,  one  tablespoon  butter,  one  teaspoon  soda,  and  one  tablespoon  of  flour ; 
beat  well  together. 

Rye  Biscuit,  No.  1. 

Two  cups  rye  meal,  one  and  one-half  cups  flour,  one-third  cup  molasses* 
two  eggs,  a  little  salt,  one  and  one-half  cups  sour  milk,  one  and  one-half  even 
teaspoons  soda  dissolved  and  poured  into  the  milk. 

Rye  Biscuit,  No.  2. 

A  little  more  than  a  pint  of  rye,  the  remainder  of  a  quart  of  flour,  butter 
nearly  as  large  an  egg,  one  egg,  two  teaspoons  yeast  powder,  mix  with 
EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK  quite  soft ;  bake  immediately. 

USE  EWEUL'S  x.  i,.  i»  t aiev  E$O  i  a  I,I:B>  MILK, 

PUREST   AND   BEST   IN    THE   WORLD. 


Corn  Bread,  No.  1. 

neal,  hi 
s  pint  c 
tablespoons  sugar. 


One  pint  of  meal,  half  a  pint  of  flour,  three  eggs,  two  teaspoons  yeast 
powder,  two-thirds  pint  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY   BOTTLED  MILK,  two 


Waffles,  No.  1. 

Take  one  cup  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  and 
half  a  cup  of  sour  milk,  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  four  eggs,  one  tea- 
spoon of  yeast  powder,  flour  for  a  batter  to  pour,  and  a  little  salt  ;  bake  in 
waffle  irons. 

Waffles,  No.  2. 

One  pint  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  four  eggs,  one 
teaspoon  of  yeast  powder,  a  little  salt,  flour  sufficient  for  a  batter  to  pour  ; 
bake  in  waffle  irons. 

Green  Corn  Calces. 

One  pint  of  grated  green  corn,  one  cup  of  flour,  half  a  cup  of  butter,  one 
egg,  three  large  tablespoons  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK  ; 
season  with  salt  and  pepper  ;  fry  in  thin  cakes  on  griddle. 

If  a  bird  is  hoarse,  or  loses  its  voice,  give  it  white  rock  candy  dissolved  in 
water. 

Velvet  Rusk. 

One  pint  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK  (warm),  flour  for 
a  thin  batter,  two  tablespoons  yeast  ;  let  it  rise  over  night.  In  the  morning 
add  half  a  cup  of  butter,  three  eggs  well  beaten  with  a  cup  of  sugar,  one  tea- 
spoon of  salt,  flour  sufficient  to  make  a  soft  dough;  mould  in  small  cakes,  put 
close  together  in  a  pan,  let  it  rise  until  very  light  ;  when  baked  brash  the  top 
with  white  of  an  egg. 

Potato  Puffs. 

Two  cups  and  a  half  of  cold  mashed  potatoes,  stir  in  two  tablespoons  of 
melted  butter,  beat  to  a  cream  three  eggs  whipped  light,  salt,  a  cup  of 
EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK;  beat  all  well  together,  pour 
into  a  deep  dish  ;  bake  in  quick  oven. 

Potato  Short  Cake. 

Grate  two  boiled  potatoes,  medium  size,  carefully  into  one  pint  of  flour, 
one  and  one-half  teaspoons  yeast  powder,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg  ;  mix  with 
EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  soft  about  like  yeast  powder  bis- 
cuit  ;  a  little  salt. 

Fritters,  No.  3. 

One  cup  sugar,  one  pint  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK 
(sour),  half  a  teaspoon  of  soda,  three  eggs,  a  little  salt,  flour  to  make  it  stiff 
enough  to  drop. 

Indian  Slapjacks. 

One  pint  and  a  half  of  Indian  meal,  half  a  pint  of  flour,  one  quart  of 
EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  five  eggs,  and  a  little  salt,  one, 
teaspoon  of  yeast  powder. 

Flannel  Cakes. 

Four  eggs,  one  quart  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK, 
stir  in  flour  until  of  the  consistency  of  buckwheat  cakes;  two  tablespoons  of 
yeast  ;  let  it  rise  and  fry  on  griddle  ;  a  little  salt. 


EWEJUL'S  X.  !,.  »AIRY  BOTTIJBD  191  1I,K. 

PUREST  AND  BEST  IN  THE  WORLD. 


75 

Buckwheat  Cakes. 

One  quart  of  Buckwheat,  one  handful  of  corn  meal,  a  little  salt  and  about 
two  tablespoons  of  yeast ;  water  and  E WELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLEI> 
MILK  for  thick  batter ;  when  risen,  fry  on  griddle  well  greased. 

Batter  Cakes. 

Three  eggs,  half  a  pint  of  E  WELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK, 
one  teacup  of  E  WELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  CREAM,  one  teaspoon 
of  yeast  powder,  a  little  salt,  flour  for  thick  batter;  butter  the  gridle,  fry  thin 
and  serve  with  butter  and  sugar. 

IB  read  Omelet. 

Four  slices  of  bread  soaked  in  two  cups  and  a  half  of  EWELL'S  X.  L. 
DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK  ;  six  eggs ;  mash  the  bread  fine  and  beat  the  eggs 
with  it ;  fry  by  the  spoon  full  in  hot  lard  j  when  it  stiffens,  cut  in  quarters  and 
turn. 

Rice  Cakes. 

Take  a  pint  bowl  of  cold  boiled  rice,  four  eggs,  a  little  salt,  a  pint  of 
EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  and  flour  sufficient  for  quite  a 
stiff  batter ;  add  a  scant  teaspoon  of  yeast  powder  to  the  flour  before  mix- 
ing with  the  other  ingredients  ;  fry  in  cakes. 

Baked  Rice  Cakes. 

One  quart  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  one  cup  rice, 
when  boiled  soft,  four  eggs,  thicken  with  flour  to  stiff  batter  ;  bake  in  gem 
pans. 

Fritters. 

One  pint  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  four  table- 
spoons of  flour,  a  little  salt,  four  eggs;  fry  thin  and  eat  with  sugar. 

Apple  Fritters. 

Quarter  and  slice  your  apples  ;  make  a  batter  of  three  eggs,  one  cup  of 
EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  a  little  salt  and  flour ;  put  in 
your  apples  and  fry  as  you  would  oysters. 

Apple  Fritters,  Wo,  2. 

Four  eggs,  one  pint  of  flour,  a  little  salt,  and  enough  of  EWELL'S  X.  Lt 
DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK  to  form  thin  batter ;  peel  apples,  core  and  slice- 
them  thickly,  dip  them  in  the  batter,  and  fry  them  with  hot  lard,  sift  fine 
sugar  over  them  and  serve. 

Bread  Fritters. 

Crumb  stale  bread  into  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK  suffi- 
cient  to  soften  it ;  let  it  stand  until  you  can  mash  it  with  a  spoon,  add  three 
eggs,  a  scant  teaspoon  of  soda,  flour  sufficient  to  make  batter  thick.  If  you 
use  sweet  milk,  use  yeast  powder  instead  of  soda. 

You  know  you  are  getting  good  measure  when  you  take  EWELL'S  X.  L. 
DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK.  Purest  and  best  in  the  world. 

Corn  Bread,  UTo.  2. 

Four  tablespoons  corn  meal,  two  of  flour,  three  eggs,  two  tablespoons  of 
brown  sugar  ;  beat  together  with  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,, 
to  make  soft  batter  ;  butter  half  the  size  of  an  egg,  melted,  and  a  little  salt, 
two  teaspoons  yeast  powder. 

Corn  Cake. 

Two  cups  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK  (sour),  one  tea- 
spoon soda,  two  teaspoons  sugar,  two  of  flour,  a  little  salt,  two  eggs,  com 
meal  sufficient  for  thin  batter. 


76 

four's,  till  the  side-board  was  full  and  crowded.  And  Mrs. 
Curaco,  who  had  taken  upon  herself  to  be  mistress  of  cere- 
monies, with  Mr.  Whiskey  as  assistant — Mr.  Brandy  being 
rather  too  fat  and  heavy — and  between  us,  this  was  why  he 
was  angry  and  sarcastic — moved  to  adjourn  to  the  dining  table 
which  was  an  unusually  large  one.  So  when  they  had  accom- 
plished the  difficult  feat  of  removal,  with  only  a  few  accidents, 
especially  to  Mr.  Whiskey,  who  being  a  little  4 '  oft, ' '  came 
near  breaking  a  leg,  so  was  artistically  lame  for  the  rest  of  the 
night,  the  dance  began.  And  such  laughing  and  shouting  you 
never  heard,  when  suddenly  the  bell  rang  loudly,  and  Miss 
* '  Bottled  Milk  ' '  was  announced,  and  as  she  entered  with  her 
stately  tread,  and  her  beautiful  shining  white  dress,  all  eyes 
were  turned  towards  her  in  admiration.  For  a  while  the  dance 
was  completely  stopped,  as  every  male  present  wanted  her  for 
a  partner,  and  as  she  couldn't  be  in  two  places  at  once,  a  waltz 
had  to  be  started,  and  she  took  a  turn  around  the  table  with 
•each  of  her  admirers,  till  the  poor  thing  was  nearly  exhausted, 
and  of  course  she  was  hated  with  a  deadly  hate,  and  fearfully 
scandalized  the  rest  of  the  night  by  all  the  lady  bottles  present. 
-So  much  one  has  to  pay  for  being  the  "  Belle  of  the  Ball." 
After  awhile  the  dancing  became  general  again,  the  males  pre- 
sent seeing  the  impossibility  of  all  having  Miss  Bottled  Milk 
for  a  partner,  choose  lesser  lights,  but  still  quite  aristocratic, 
for  there  was  Miss  Salad  Dressing  in  her  pale  yellow  robe, 
and  Miss  Tomato  Catsup  in  red,  and  Miss  Mustard  in  gold, 
and  Miss  Ceyenne  Pepper  in  terra  cotta.  All  Mr.  Ward  McAl- 
listers "Four  Hundred"  were  there,  including  Mr.  Black  Pep- 
per; and  all  the  varieties  of  Wines  from  France,  Italy,  Spain, 
Portugal  and  from  our  own  Golden  California. 

When  they  were  tired  of  dancing,  refreshments  were  served 
—the  remains  of  the  family's  feast  of  a  few  hours  before — and 
then  around  the  warmth  of  the  hanging  lamp,  whose  extin- 
guishment had  been  forgotten,  the  good  old  English  custom  of 
telling  anecdotes  and  stories,  was  indulged  in. 

Mr.  Whisky,  soon  grew  red  then  black  in  the  face,  with 
anger,  at  all  the  evil,  crime  and  misery  laid  at  his  door,  and  he 
spoke  up  saucily. 

''Well  there's  one  thing  I  can  do  that  none  of  you  can,  I 
can  make  a  man  feel  like  a  millionaire,  if  he  has  a  couple  of 
drinks  of  me,  and  a  dime  in  his  pocket  for  a  cigar. ' ' 

"Yes,   and  then ?"  spoke   up  sober  Mr.  Black  Pepper, 

who  was  rather  a  parson  in  his  dress  and  speech.  But  Mr. 
Whisky  was  silent,  ^mowing  that  the  end  of  his  votaries,  was 
.generally — the  gutter. 

"Well,"   said  Miss  Mustard,"    you  can't  say  anything  bad 

{Continued  on  page  78.} 
See  the  Battle  of  Gettysburg  at  Market  and  Tenth  Sts. 


77 

Bannock* 

One  pint  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  one  pint  of 
meal,  one  pint  of  water,  four  eggs,  a  little  salt,  two  tablespoons  sugar ;  scald 
the  meal  with  the  water  and  add  eggs  while  hot ;  bake  an  hour. 

I*op-OTers. 

Four  eggs,  two  and  one-half  cups  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED 
MILK,  three  of  flour,  a  little  salt,  one  teaspoon  of  yeast  powder;  bake  in  gem 
pans. 

Hot  Cakes. 

Four  cups  of  sour  milk,  half  a  teaspoon  of  soda  to  each  cup,  a  little  salt,, 
two  tablespoons  melted  butter,  sufficient  flour  to  make  thin  batter ;  beat  well.. 

Corn  Cake. 

Two  cups  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK  (sour),  one  tea- 
spoon  level  full  of  soda,  one  tablespoon  of  syrup,  two  cups  corn  meal,  half  a 
eup  of  flour,  two  eggs,  a  little  salt. 

Corn  Meal  Cake. 

One  pint  of  corn  meal,  one  quart  of  sour  milk,  four  eggs  well  beaten^ 
three  tablespoons  sugar,  soda  sufficient  to  sweeten  the  milk,  dissolved  and  put 
in  the  milk  ;  bake  in  pans. 

Strawberry  Short  Cake. 

One  pint  of  flour,  a  piece  of  butter  size  of  an  egg,  two  scant  teaspoons  of 
yeast  powder  ;  mix  with  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK  as  soft 
as  you  can  knead  ;  bake  quickly,  split,  butter  and  fill  plentifully  with  berries 
and  sugar  j  cover  with  the  other  crust;  put  into  oven  for  a  few  minutes;, 
serve. 

Crumpets. 

Three  cups  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK  (warm),  half  a 
teacup  of  yeast,  a.  large  tablespoon  of  melted  butter,  one  teaspoon  of  salt,  half 
a  teaspoon  of  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water,  flour  enough  to  make  a  good  batter  j 
leave  out  the  butter  and  soda  and  set  the  other  to  rise  as  a  sponge  ;  when  well 
risen,  udd  the  butter  and  soda  and  a  very  little  flour  ;  fill  your  gem  pans  and 
let  them  stand  twenty  or  thirty  minutes  to  rise. 

Sally-L.unn  Tea  Cakes. 

One  quart  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  half  a  teacup, 
of  butter,  four  eggs,  one  teaspoon  salt,  three  tablespoons  of  yeast;  beat  it  very 
light ;  let  it  rise  and  bake  in  quick  oven ;  flour  for  stiff  batter ;  a  little  sugar. 

Boiled  starch  is  much  improved  by  the  addition  of  a  little  sperm  or  a  lit- 
tle salt,  or  both. 

Black  Cake. 

One  cupful  butter  and  one  and  one-half  cups  brown  sugar,  half  cup  mo- 
lasses, one  cup  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  three  eggs  well 
beaten,  one  teaspoon  each  of  nutmeg,  cloves  and  cinnamon,  four  cups  of  flour, 
two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  two  pounds  of  seeded  raisins,  one  pound  of 
currants  and  one-quarter  pomnd  of  citron  finely  sliced.  Bake  immediately. 

EWELL'S  X.   L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK  can't  be  beat. 

Snow  Cake. 

Half  teacup  butter,  one  of  sugar,  one  and  a  half  flour,  half  cup  of 
EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  whites  of  four  eggs,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  baking  powder,  sifted  with  the  flour;  flavor  with  lemon  extract. 


78 

of  me.  I  do  good  to  the  sick,  as  well  as  to  the  well,"  and  no 
bottle  said  nay. 

But  the  fancy  sauces  were  voted  as  of  little  account,  except 
as  relishes,  but  Pepper,  Salt  and  Vinegar  held  their  own.  All 
the  Foreign  Mr.  Wines  listened  to  the  discussion  in  silence, 
with  a  high  bred  simper  on  their  faces.  Then  Mr.  California 
Claret  spoke  up. 

1 '  There  is  a  distinguished  guest  present,  who  with  native  mod- 
esty, has  forbore  to  parade  her  claims  to  distinction  and  honor 
before  this  august  company,  but  she  and  her  family  are  bound  to 
work  a  revolution  in  the  drinking  world;  the  good  she  has  accom- 
plished, is  something  wonderful;  the  good  she  will  accomplish, 
is  too  great  to  be  told.  How  many  babes  she  has  saved  from 
death,  helping  them  to  grow  up  into  beautiful  healthy  Califor- 
nia children;  how  many  men  she  has  saved  from  the  gutter, 
and  restored  to  their  homes  and  families,  cannot  now  be  told, 
or  how  she  has  modestly  stood  among  a  lot  of  vile  companions 
on  a  bar,  and  shamed  them  with  her  purity  and  goodness — her 
very  sight  quenching  the  inebriate's  fiery  thirst — she  has  come 
liere  to  stay — allow  me  to  introduce  Miss  Bottled  Milk,  the 
purest  and  best  in  the  world,  from  the  clean,  wholesome,  una- 
dulterated article  furnished  by  the  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY 
BOTTLED  MILK  COMPANY,"  and  such  a  clapping  of  hands 
you  never  heard — in  fact,  some  of  the  bottles  are  chipped  to 
this  day,  from  their  enthusiasm. 

Just  then  such  a  noise  sounded  outside. 

"  Oh!  "  cried  Mrs.  Curaco,  "  Those  low,  vulgar  beer  | bottles, 
are  mad  at  not  being  invited,  and  are  giving  a  chiveri;  oh,  the 
brutes. ' '  But  Mr.  Whiskey,  would  not  stand  having  his.  poor 
relations  abused,  tho'  he  did  it  himself  sometimes,  yet  it  was 
a  very  different  thing  to  allow  others  to  do  so,  so  he  spoke  up 
angrily: 

' '  And  what  are  you,  you  fat  old  scandal-monger  ?  you  haven't 
a  good  word  for  anyone,  their  music  is  just  as  good  as  you 
make  with  your  gab,  gab,  gab!  " 

"Oh,  oh,  oh!  Mr.  Brandy,  quick!"  cried  Mrs.  Curaco,  and  she 
was  about  to  faint  in  his  arms,  but  he,  too,  felt  himself  agrieved 
at  the  epithet  '  fat,'  so  said,  in  his  deep  voice: 

' '  Let  me  get  at  him ! ' '  and  with  one  blow  from  his  good  right 
hand  he  landed  Mr.  Whiskey,  smashed  and  broken,  on  the  floor. 
Then  Mr.  Gin  thought  he'd  take  a  hand,  and  he  shared  the 
same  fate;  then  Mr.  Absinthe  smiled  a  green  smile  of  envy  at 
Mr.  Brandy's  strength,  and  he  lay  on  the  floor,  as  well. 

Miss  Pepper  Sauce  said: 

"  For  shame!  "  for  she  rather  liked  the  handsome  stranger; 
but  Miss  Bottled  Milk  looked  on  serene,  knowing  it  was  better 

(Continued  on  page  82.) 
Highest  Kates  of  Interest  at  People's  Home  Savings  Bank. 


79 

Csi  rsimel  Cake. 

One  cup  butter,  two  cups  sugar,  a  scant  cup  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY 
BOTTLED  MILK,  one  and  one-half  cups  flour,  one  cup  corn  starch,  whites  of 
seven  eggs,  two  teaspoons  baking  powder  in  the  flour,  well  sifted;  bake  in  a 
long  pan;  take  half  pound  of  brown  sugar,  scant  quarter  pound  of  chocolate, 
half  cup  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  butter  size  of  an 
egg,  two  teaspoons  of  extract  of  vanilla;  mix  thoroughly  and  cook  as  syrup  un- 
til stiff  enough  to  spread;  spread  on  cake  and  set  in  oven  to  dry. 

Scotch  Fruit  Cake. 

A  cup  butter,  two  of  white  sugar,  one  cup  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY 
BOTTLED  MILK,  four  cups  flour,  dry,  with  two  teaspoons  baking  powder, 
nine  eggs  beaten  separately,  one  pound  raisins,  half  pound  currants,  a  fourth 
pound  citron;  cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  add  milk  gradually,  then  beaten 
yolks  of  eggs,  and  lastly,  while  stirring  in  the  flour,  the  whites  well  whipped. 
Flavor  with  one  teaspoon  each  of  lerron  and  vanilla  extract,  have  raisins 
seeded  and  citron  sliced  thin,  wash  and  dry  currants  before  using,  and  flour 
all  fruit  slightly.  In  putting  cake  in  pan,  place  first  a  thin  layer  of  cake,  then 
sprinkle  in  some  of  three  kinds  of  fruit,  then  a  layer  of  cake,  and  so  on, 
always  finishing  off  with  a  thin  layer  of  cake.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  two 
hours. 

Cocoanut  Cake* 

One  cup  butter,  three  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOX- 
TLED  MILK,  four  and  one-half  cups  flour,  four  eggs  with  whites  beaten  to  a 
stiff  froth,  two  teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  and  one  of  grated  cocoanut. 

Golden  Cake,  No.  3. 

The  yolks  of  eight  eggs,  one  cup  of  sugar,  three-quarters  cup  of  butter 
one-half  cup  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  one  and  one'- 
half  cups  of  flour,  and  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder;  flavor  with  lemon 
extract, 

Silver  Cake. 

The  whites  of  eight  eggs,  two  cups  of  sugar,  one -half  cup  of  butter,  three, 
fourths  cup  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  three  cups  of 
flour,  and  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder;  flavor  with  almond  or  lemon 
extract. 

EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  good  for  dyspeptics. 

Julia's  Cake. 

Beat  two  cups  of  sugar  and  half  a  cup  of  butter  to  a  cream,  half  a  cup  of 
EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  one  and  a  half  cups  of  flour  in 
which  is  well  mixed,  dry,  half  a  cup  of  corn  starch  and  two  teaspoonfuls  of 
baking  powder;  then  add  the  whites  of  six  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth;  flavor 
to  taste  with  orange  or  lemon  extract. 

Sponge  Cake,  No.  1. 

Mix  one  cup  of  flour  with  one  heaping  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  one 
cup  of  sugar,  three  eggs  and  one  tablespoonful  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY 
BOTTLED  MILK;  flavor  with  lemon  or  orange  extract;  stir  briskly  and  bake 
at  once. 

USE  EWEUL'S   X.   I,.   DAIRY    lfi<>'rrra,UI>  JB1IJK, 

PUREST   AND   BEST   IN   THE   WORLD. 


80 

Marbled  Chocolate  Cake. 

Make  a  batter  as  for  white  cake,  take  out  one  teacup,  add  to  it  five  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  grated  chocolate,  moistened  with  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOT- 
TLED MILK  and  flavor  with  vanilla  extract;  pour  a  layer  of  white  batter  into 
the  baking  pan,  then  drop  the  chocolate  batter  with  a  spoon  in  spots,  and 
spread  the  remainder  of  white  batter  over  it;  bake  in  a  well-heated  oven. 

Delicious  Cake* 

One  cup  of  sugar,  half  a  cup  of  butter,  two  eggs,  the  yolks  and  whites 
separately  beaten,  half  a  cup  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK, 
and  one  and  one-half  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder. 

To  relieve  asthma,  soak  blotting  paper  in  strong  saltpetre  water.  Dry  and 
burn  at  night  in  your  bedroom. 

Cream    Cake. 

Four  cups  of  sifted  flour,  two  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  three  cups 
white  sugar,  one  Cup  butter,  one  cup  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED 
CREAM,  five  eggs;  flavor  with  lemon  extract. 

Tea  Cake. 

One  cup  sugar,  one  egg,  one-fourth  cup  butter,  one-third  cup  of  EWELL'S 
X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  one  coffee  cup  flour,  one  teaspoonful  of  bak- 
ing powder;  flavor  as  desired. 

Cup  Cake. 

One  cup  butter,  two  of  sugar,  beaten  to  a  cream;  four  eggs  well  beaten 
with  one-half  cup  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK;  stir  into  but- 
ter and  sugar;  three  cups  of  flour,  one  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder;  flavor 
with  extract  of  vanilla. 

Fan's    Cake. 

One  and  a  half  cups  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY 
BOTTLED  CREAM,  a  little  salt,  four  well  beaten  eggs,  two  cups  of  flour, 
one  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder.  Bake  in  hot  oven. 

Baker's  Pound  Cake. 

Two  cups  sugar,  one  small  cup  butter,  beat  to  a  cream  ;  three  eggs  well 
beaten,  one  cup  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  three  cups  of 
flour,  two  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  and  one  of  nutmeg ;  mix  all  together 
quickly  and  bake  immediately. 

Citron  Cake. 

Stir  three  cups  of  sugar  and  one  cup  of  butter  to  a  cream  ;  four  cups  of 
flour  well  mixed,  dry,  with  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder  ;  one  cup  of 
EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  five  eggs,  yolks  and  whites 
beaten  separately  ;  mix  all  well  together,  adding  one-half  pound  of  citron 
finely  cut,  sliced  and  floured,  then  bake. 

EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  the  purest  and  best  in  the 
world. 

Kentucky  Cake. 

Four  cups  of  flour  mixed,  dry,  with  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder, 
two  cups  of  white  sugar,  one  cup  butter,  one-half  cup  of  EWELL'S  X.  L. 
DAIRY  BOTTLED  CREAM,  the  whites  of  eight  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth, 
added  to  the  cream ;  flavor  with  vanilla,  lemon  or  orange  extract.  Work  the 
butter  and  sugar  well  together,  then  stir  in  the  cream,  then  alternate  the  flour 
and  eggs  until  all  the  ingredients  are  in,  the  last  of  all  the  extract.  Put  into 
deep  buttered  pans  and  bake  in  moderate  oven. 


81 

A  White   Delicate   Cake. 

Three  cups  of  sifted  flour,  one  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar,  whites  of  seven 
eggs,  one  teacupf ul  of  SWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  butter,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  and  one  teaspoonful  of 
lemon  extract.  Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream,  add  to  it  the  milk  and 
eggs  well  beaten,  then  add  the  extract.  Mix  with  this  very  slowly  three  cups 
of  flour,  in  which  the  baking  powder  has  been  well  mixed.  Bake  in  a  quick 
oven. 

Cure  for  Burns — One-third  part  linseed  oil,  two-thirds  lime  water.  Shake 
up  well ;  apply  and  wrap  in  soft  linen. 

Cocoanut  Cake,  No   3. 

One  cup  of  butter  and  two  of  sugar,  beat  to  a  cream  ;  one  cup  of  E  WELL'S 
X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  three  and  one-half  of  flour  with  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  sifted  dry ;  whites  of  ten  eggs  ;  flavor  with 
almond  extract;  bake  in  jelly  cake  tins,  making  six  layers. 

ICING— Two  cups  white  sugar,  whites  of  three  eggs,  beat  together  ;  spread 
between  each  layer,  sprinkled  with  grated  cocoanut  over  top  and  sides  ;  around 
the  edge  of  each  layer  place  blanched  almonds  split,  and  sprinkle  cocoanut 
over  all. 

Ice-Cream  Cake. 

Two  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  well  mixed,  dry,  with  three  and  one- 
half  cups  flour  ;  beat  the  whites  of  eight  egges,  two  cups  white  sugar  and  one 
cup  butter,  beat  together  ;  one  cup  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED 
MILK  ;  add  all  together  and  bake  in  jelly  pans. 

ICING — Two  cups  white  sugar,  the  juice  of  one  lemon,  one  cup  of  water, 
boil  to  a  thick  clear  syrup  ;  beat  the  whites  of  three  eggs  and  stir  them  in  hot; 
when  cool,  flavor  with  lemon  or  orange  extract,  and  spread  between  layers  and 
on  the  top, 

!,;«<! y  Cake. 

One-half  pound  of  butter,  one  pound  of  flour,  eight  eggs,  one  teaspoor>ful 
of  cream  tartar,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  soda,  one  pound  sugar,  one-half  pint 
of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK.  Flavor  with  bitter  almond, 
and  bake  in  square  not  very  deep  tins.  Flavor  the  frosting  with  vanilla.  The 
combination  is  very  pleasant. 

Sister  Mag's  Cake. 

Two  and  one-half  cups  powdered  sugar;  three-quarters  cup  of  butter;  one 
cup  sweet  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK;  three  cups  flour;  four 
eggs;  one  lemon,  juice  and  rind;  one  small  tea&poonful  soda.  Bake  in  a 
square  or  oblong  tin,  and  frost  with  whites  of  two  eggs  beaten  stiff  with  pow- 
dered sugar. 

Caramel  Cake. 

Three  cups  sugar;  one  and  one-half  cups  butter;  one  cup  of  EWELL'S  X.  L. 
DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK;  four  and  one-half  cups  prepared  flour;  live  eggs. 

CARAMEL  FOR  FILLING — One  and  one-half  cups  brown  sugar,  half  cup  of 
EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK;  one  cup  molasses;  one  teaspoon- 
ful butter;  one  tablespoonful  flour;  two  tablespoonfuls  cold  water.  Boil  this 
mixture  five  minutes,  add  half  a  cake  Baker's  chocolate  (grated),  boil  until  it 
is  of  the  consistency  of  rich  custard.  Add  a  pinch  of  soda,  stir  well,  and  re- 
move from  the  fire.  When  cold,  flavor  with  a  large  teaspoonful  of  vanilla,  and 
spread  between  the  layers  of  the  cake,  which  should  be  baked,  as  for  jelly 
cake;  cover  the  top  with  the  same,  and  set  in  an  open,  sunny  window  to  dry. 


X.  I..  !>  VI K  V   KOTT  I,I41>  ME  I.It. 

PUREST  AND  BEST  IN  THE  WORLD. 


82 

for  the  dear  people,  were  all  their  enemies  thus  destroyed. 
But  Miss  Vinegar  began  to  cry,  as  a  big  chip  flew  out  of  Mr. 
Brandy's  side,  and  he  soon  rolled  off  the  table,  with  a  sigh, 
and  joined  his  victims  on  the  floor.  Mrs.  Curaco  was  knocked 
down  in  the  fray,  but  she  was  just  as  happy  as  ever,  knowing 
her  fate  was  to  be  painted  and  decorated  with  ribbons,  by  Mis- 
tress Port,  and  to  become  a  parlor  ornament.  And  when  the 
simpering  foreigners — the  Wines — began  to  grow  excited,  and 
to  take  a  hand,  Miss  Bottled  Milk  drew  her  silver  hat  over 
her  eyes,  to  shut  out  the  disgraceful  sight,  and  the  clock  struck 
one! 


No  other  business  college  on  the  coast  can  boast  such  a  long 
term  of  usefulness  as  this  well-known  institution.  Its  gradu- 
ates are  to  be  found  in  almost  every  mercantile  establishment 
in  the  State,  and  numbers  of  them  have  won  the  highest  posi- 
tions in  the  community.  As  a  training  school  for  business  it  is 
unequaled,  and  the  general  public  appreciation  of  its  merits  is 
evidenced  by  the  large  attendance,  which  often  reaches  as  high 
as  five  hundred  pupils.  This  is  a  practical  world,  and  the  de- 
mand is  for  practical  young  men  and  women.  A  business  edu- 
cation— one  that  can  be  applied  so  as  to  enable  the  student  to 
earn  a  living — is  worth  a  great  deal  of  ornamental  knowledge, 
and  parents  are  awakening  to  that  fact.  The  course  of  in- 
struction at  Heald's  Business  College  includes  all  the  ordinary 
commercial  branches,  book-keeping,  penmanship,  commercial 
law,  shorthand,  typewriting,  telegraphy  and  languages.  Half 
the  stenographers  of  San  Francisco  graduated  from  this  institu- 
tion, and  the  thoroughness  of  its  instruction  in  every  depart- 
ment is  generally  recognized.  It  is  a  school  of  which  San 
Francisco  has  reason  to  be  proud. 

(Continued  on  page  86.) 
See  the  Battle  of  Gettysburg  at  Market  and  Tenth  Sts. 


83 

I>over  Cake. 

One  pound  flour;  one  pound  white  sugar;  half  pound  butter,  rubbed  with 
the  sugar  to  a  very  light  cream;  six  eggs;  one  cup  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY 
BOTTLED  MILK;  one  teaspoonful  soda  dissolved  in  vinegar;  one  teaspoonful 
powdered  cinnamon;  one  tablespoonful  rose  water.  Flavor  the  frosting  with 
lemon  juice. 

Elite's  Cake. 

One  cup  sugar,  half  cup  butter,  three  eggs,  half  cup  EWELL'S  X.  L. 
DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  two  and  one-half  cups  prepared  flour.  Bake  in 
jelly  cake  tins,  and  till  with  jelly  or  chocolate. 

Grease  Spots — One  quart  boiling  water,  one  ounce  pulverized  borax,  half 
ounce  gum  camphor.  Shake  up  well  and  bottle. 

Cream  Sponge  Cake. 

Two  eggs,  one  cup  sugar,  one  cup  flour,  half  a  cup  of  EWELL'S  X.  L. 
DAIRY  BOTTLED  CREAM,  a  piece  of  soda  the  size  of  a  pea. 

Railroad  Cake. 

One  and  one-half  cups  of  flour,  one  cup  sugar,  half  a  cup  of  EWELL'S 
X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK  (sour),  two  eggs,  a  small  piece  of  butter,  two 
teaspoons  of  yeast  powder,  lemon. 

Calico  Cake. 

Three  cups  sugar,  one  and  one-half  butter,  six  eggs,  two-thirds  of  a  cup  of 
EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  one  teaspoonful  cream  tartar, 
half  a  teaspoon  of  soda,  four  cups  flour  ;  make  the  dark  part  with  brown 
sugar;  one  teaspoon  each  of  cloves,  cinnamon,  mace  and  nutmeg  ;  half  a  pound 
of  currants  ;  make  the  light  part  with  white  sugar  and  the  whites  of  the  eggs. 
When  put  into  the  pans,  put  a  spoonful  of  the  dark  and  one  of  the  light  alter- 
nately. 

The  Depot  for  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  is  on  the 
•direct  line  of  Folsom  street  cars. 

Apple  Cake. 

Soak  three  cups  of  dried  apples  in  as  little  water  as  possible  over  night ; 
in  the  morning,  chop  and  boil  half  an  hour  in  two  cups  of  syrup  ;  take  one  cup 
of  butter,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED 
MILK  (sour),  with  one  teaspoon  of  soda  dissolved  in  the  milk,  four  eggs,  four 
cups  flour,  containing  two  and  one-half  teaspoons  of  yeast  powder,  one  cup  of 
raisins,  one  teaspoon  of  cloves,  two  of  cinnamon,  and  one  nutmeg. 

Cup  Cake  with  Currants. 

Two  cups  sugar,  half  a  cup  of  butter,  three  eggs,  one  cup  of  EWELL'S 
X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  three  cups  of  flour,  two  teaspoons  yeast 
powder,  two  cups  currants,  nutmeg. 

Huckleberry  Cake. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  half  a  cup  butter,  five  teacups  flour,  three  scant  tea 
spoons  yeast  powder  mixed  with  the  flour,  a  little  salt,  one  quart  of  huckle- 
berries, mix  with  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  as  stiff  as 
pound  cake,  and  bake  quickly  in  square  tins  ;  add  the  berries  last. 

To  Clean  Straw  Matting. — Wash  with  a  cloth  dipped  in  clean  salt  and 
then  wipe  dry  at  once. 

USE   THE   IIEST  OF   EVERYTHING, 

THE  BEST  IS  THE  CHEAPEST. 


84 

.Mountain  Cake.— (Mrs.  B.) 

One  pound  of  sugar,  one  pound  flour,  half  a  pound  of  butter,  six  eggs,  one- 
teacup  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  three  teaspoons  yeast, 
powder ;  flavor  with  lemon  or  vanilla. 

Clove  Cake. 

One  pound  sugar,  one  pound  of  flour,  one-half  pound  of  butter,  four  eggs 
one  cup  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  two  teaspoons  yeast 
powder,  one  teaspoon  of  mace,  one  of  cloves,  one  of   cinnamon,  one    large   cup. 
of  raisins,  the  same  of  currants,  and  some  citron. 

Lemon  Cake. 

Two  cups  sugar,  two-thirds  cup  butter,  three  eggs  (beat  the  yolks  sep- 
arately), one  cup  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  one  teaspoon 
of  soda,  two  of  cream  tartar,  the  grated  rind  of  a  lemon,  three  cups  flour. 

I^emon  Cake,  No.  2. 

Beat  six  eggs  (the  yolks  and  whites  separately),  add  to  the  yolks  the  juice 
and  grated  rind  of  one  lemon,  two  cups  sugar,  half  a  cup  of  butter,  half  a  cup 
of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  one  teaspoon  of  soda,  and  four 
cups  flour. 

A  Nice  f  ,oa  T  of  Cake. 

One  cup  sugar,  one-half  a  cup  of  melted  butter,  two  eggs,  half  cup  of 
EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  two  even  cups  flour,  one  tea- 
spoon yeast  powder. 

IBavMSB  rd  Cake. 

One  cup  butter,  two  and  a  half  of  sugar,  four  of  flour,  one  cup  of 
EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  four  eggs,  two  teaspoons  yeast 
powder,  spice. 

A  Nice  Sponge  Cake. 

One  cup  sugar,  one  cup  of  flour,  three  eggs,  reserving  the  white  of  one 
for  frosting,  one  and  one-half  teaspoons  of  yeast  powder,  three  large  spoons  of 
EWELL'S X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK. 

Bring  up  your  children  on  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK.. 
It  makes  the  strongest  men  and  women. 

English  Six  Months  Cake. 

Two  cups  sugar,  one  of  molasses,  a  cup  and  one-half  of  butter,  one  cup  of 
EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  five  and  a  half  of  flour,  one  and 
one-half  pounds  of  seeded  raisins,  one  teaspoon  soda,  one  wine  glass  of  brandy 
or  wine,  spices  of  all  kinds. 

Pound  Cake  Dy  Measure. 

Three  coffee  cups  sugar,  one  coffee  cup  butter,  eight  eggs,  half  a  cup  of 
EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  two  teaspoons  yeast  powder, 
four  cups  of  flour. 

EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK  contains  pure  nutrition  and 
nothing  else. 

Good  Plain  Cake. 

Four  eggs,  three  cups  sugar,  half  a  cup  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOT- 
TLED MILK  filled  up  with  water,  and  one-fourth  teaspoon  of  soda  put  in  the 
water,  two-thirds  cup  of  butter,  two  full  teaspoons  yeast  powder,  put  into  four 
level  cups  of  sifted  flour ;  work  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream  j  add  the  eggs . 
and  then  the  other  ingredients  ;  flavor  with  nutmeg. 


85 

A  Splendid  Plum  Cake. 

One  pound  white  sugar,  one  pound  flour,  three-quarters  pound  of  butter' 
•six  eggs  beaten  separately.  Beat  sugar,  butter  and  yolks,  whites  added  last' 
foeaten  to  a  stiff  froth  ;  one  pound  raisins,  a  little  citron,  one  cup  of  SWELL'S 
X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  one  teaspoon  soda,  two  cream  tartar. 

Spiced  Cake. 

One  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  two  large  spoons  molasses,  one  cup  butter' 
one-half  cup  of  SWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK  (sour),  two  eggs' 
two  and  one-half  cups  flour,  two  teaspoons  yeast  powder,  a  little  of  all  kinds 
of  spices,  currants  and  raisins. 

Spice  Cake,  No.  3. 

One  cup  butter,  one  cup  sugar,  one  cup  molas?es,  one  cup  of  E WELL'S 
X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  one  pound  chopped  raisins,  two  teaspoons 
yeast  powder,  one  nutmeg,  one  small  teaspoon  cloves,  flour  sufficient  to  make 
like  other  stirred  cake. 

To  Curl  Tumbled  Feathers. — Hold  over  the  heated  top  of  the  range  or 
stove,  not  near  enough  to  burn ;  withdraw,  shake  them  out  and  hold  them 
over  it  again  until  curled. 

Toledo  Cake. 

One  cup  butter,  two  of  sugar,  two-thirds  cup  of  SWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY 
BOTTLED  MILK,  three  eggs,  two  and  one-half  cups  flour,  one  teaspoon  of 
cream  tartar  sifted  into  the  flour,  one-half  teaspoon  in  the  milk,  a  pint  bowl  of 
raisins  scalded,  mace  or  nutmeg  to  the  taste,  a  little  citron. 

White  Pound  Cake. 

One  cup  of  white  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  butter,  beat  twenty  minutes; 
whites  of  two  eggs,  beat  ten  minutes;  one  and  one-half  cups  of  flour,  one  tea- 
,spoon  of  yeast  powder,  one-half  cup  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED 
MILK.  ' 

Modest  I'm i I  Cake. 

One  cup  of  brown  sugar,  one  cup  butter,  one-half  cup  of  EWELL'S  X.  L* 
DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK  (sour),  one  teaspoon  of  soda  dissolved  in  water  and 
poured  into  the  milk,  three  eggs,  one  cup  of  raisins,  one  cup  of  currants,  both 
chopped  fine,  two  cups  flour;  makes  two  round  loaves. 

Plum  Cake* 

One  pound  flour,  three-fourths  of  a  pound  of  butter,  three-fourths  of  a 
pound  of  sugar,  six  eggs,  two  teaspoons  of  yeast  powder,  half  a  pound  of  cur- 
rants, one  pound  of  raisins,  two  ounces  of  citron,  half  gill  brandy,  one  nutmeg; 
if  you  wish  it  black,  add  cloves  and  brown  flour. 

Plum  Cake,  No.  2. 

Two  cups  brown  sugar,  two-thirds  cup  butter,  half  a  cup  of  EWELL'S  X. 
-L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  three  eggs,  three  cups  flour,  two  teaspoons  yeast 
powder,  three  and  a  half  cups  raisins,  cloves,  cinnamon  and  nutmeg,  citron 
and  a  little  brandy. 

Redwood  Cake. 

Four  eggs,  three  cups  sugar,  one  cup  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOT- 
TLED MILK,  one  cup  of  butter,  five  cups  of  flour,  one  or  two  pounds  raisins, 
boiled  fifteen  minutes  and  used  cold;  flour  them  before  using,  to  prevent  them 
from  falling;  two  teaspoons  of  yeast  powder  put  in  and  well  mixed  with  the 
flour,  one  teaspoon  of  cloves,  one  of  cinnamon,  one  nutmeg;  baked  in  loaves, 
makes  two. 

To  wash  doubtful  Calicoes,  put  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar  of  lead  into  a  pailful 
*of  water,  and  soak  15  minutes  before  washing. 


86 


THE  MILK  ROUTE. 


Hcrw     City      Consumers 
are  Supplied, 


THE    DAIRIES    OK    SAN    BRUNO. 


Fruitless     Search     for    trie    Mythical 
Co\v    ^witri    trie     Iron    Tail. 


[Written  for  the  Chronicle,  and  published  October  6,  1889.] 
There  are  a  great  many  San  Franciscans  who  dismiss  the 
subject  of  the  milk  supply  from  their  minds  with  the  brief 
reflection  that  some  person  unknown  has  milked  certain  cows, 
to  them  unknown,  in  some  suburban  dairy,  and  has  brought  a. 
quart  of  the  yield  to  their  doorstep  at  5  o'clock  in  the  morning. 
It  does  not  seem  to  have  occurred  to  these  uninquisitive  gentry 
that  something  like  a  system  is  required  to  supply  milk  twice  a 
day,  with  unfailing  regularity,  to  300,000  people. 

The  milkman  is  a  much-maligned  individual.  It  has  been 
cynically  affirmed  that  the  milk  supply  will  never  run  short  so 
long  as  pumps,  wells,  flumes  and  hydrants  yield  a  sufficiency 
of  water.  The  caricature  of  the  cow  with  the  iron  tail  is  as  old 
as  the  hills,  and  in  the  great  cities  of  Europe,  with  the  notable 
Continued  on  page  90. 

Pacific  Bank  Sells  l>r;iTt*  on  every  Important  City. 


87 

Cosmopolitan  Cake. 

Two  cups  sugar,  one  of  butter,  one  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOT- 
TLED MILK,  nearly  four  cups  flour,  whites  of  eight  eggs  ;  three  teaspoonfuls 
baking  powder  ;  flavor  with  lemon  extract.  Take  a  little  more  than  three- 
fifths  of  this  mixture  in  three  jelly  tins,  add  to  the  remaining  batter  one 
tablespoonful  of  ground  allspice,  [one  and  one-half  tablespoonfuls  cinnamon, 
teaspoonful  of  cloves,  one-fourth  pound  each  of  sliced  citron  and  chopped 
raisins;  bake  in  two  jelly  pans,  and  put  together  with  frosting,  alternating 
dark  with  light. 

Pink    and  White  Layer  Cake. 

One  cup  of  butter,  two  of  sugar,  beat  to  a  cream ;  one  cup  of  EWELL'S 
X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  one  of  corn  starch,  two  of  flour,  two 
heaping  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder  well  sifted,  dry,  with  the  flour  ;  whites  of 
six  eggs  beaten  stiff ;  stir  all  together.  This  will  make  five  layers;  separate 
enough  to  make  two  layers,  and  add  to  it  one  teaspoonful  of  fruit  coloring. 

FILLING  AND  FROSTING. — Whites  of  two  eggs  beaten  stiff,  adding  white 
sugar  and  extract  of  orange.  First,  cover  a  white  layer  with  filling,  then  lay 
on  a  pink  layer  and  cover  that,  next  a  white,  next  pink,  last  white,  filling  be- 
tween each  and  frosting  the  top. 

Cocoanut  Cake,   No.  1. 

Three  eggs,  two  cups  sugar,  one  cup  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED 

MI  LK  and  two  tablespoonfuls  melted  butter  ;  mix  together  ;  then  mix  three 
cups  flour  with  two  heaping  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  mix  all  together 
and  bake. 

FILLING.— One  egg,  half  pint  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK, 
half  cup  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  corn  starch,  scalded  together,  make  thick 
with  grated  cocoanut ;  two  teaspoonfuls  orange  extract. 

Cocoanut  Cake.   No.  2. 

Five  eggs,  two  cups  sugar,  one  cup  butter,  one  cup  EWELL'S  X.  L. 
DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  two  and  one-half  cups  flour,  two  teaspoonfuls 
baking  powder  ;  flavor  with  lemon  extract ;  bake  in  four  long  tins,  icing  and 
cocoanut  sprinkled  over  the  top  of  each  layer.  If  dessicated  cocoanut  is  used, 
soak  it  a  few  minutes  in  a  small  quantity  of  boiling  milk. 

Grow  fat  on  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK. 

Apple   Jelly  Cake. 

Pare  and  grate  three  apples,  two-thirds  cup  sugar,  one  beaten  egg  ;  mix  all 
and  cook,  stirring  while  cooking  ;  when  done  and  cooled  add  two  teaspoonfuls 
of  lemon  extract. 

CAKE. — Beat  whites  and  yolks  of  three  eggs,  one  and  one-half  cups  white 
sugar,  half  a  cup  of  butter,  one-half  cup  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOT- 
TLED MILK ;  sift  three  cups  of  flour  with  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  pow- 
der ;  mix  and  divide,  baking  in  sheets  or  jelly  pans.  Use  the  jelly  while  hot. 

EWELL'S   X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  CREAM 

The  poorest  coffee  will  redeem. 

Hickory-Nut  Cake. 

One  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  half  a  cup  of  butter,  three-fourths  cup  of 
EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  two  cups  flour  with  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  baking  powder,  whites  of  four  eggs  beaten  thoroughly;  bake  in  sheets. 

ICING  AND  FILLING. — Whites  of  three  eggs  beaten  stiff,  three  large  table- 
spoonfuls  white  sugar,  one  cup  chopped  nut-meats  ;  flavor  with  orange,  almond 
or  lemon  extract. 

USE  EWKI^'S  X.   E,.   DAIRY   BOTTLED   Mil, It, 

PUREST  AND  BEST  IN  THE  WORLD. 


88 
E.  P.  HEALD,  Pres't.  C.  S.  HALEY,  Sec'y. 


Business  College 

24   POST    STREET, 

Opposite  Mechanics'  Institute,  SAIV    FRANCISCO. 

The  IWost  Popular  School  on  the  Pacific  Coast 

The  design  of  this  Institution  is  to  impart  to  persons  of  both  sexes  a  prac 
tical  and  usefu  I  Business  Education .  Young  men  are  thoroughly  fitted  for  Bankers* 
Merchants  Book- Keepers,  Cashiers,  Shorthand  Writers,  Typewriters,  Clerks  and 
Salesmen  by  our  great  system  of  ACTUAL  BUSINESS  TRAINING-  By  this 
system  the  pupil  receives  while  in  the  school  the  same  practice  in  conducting  busi- 
ness affairs  that  he  would  in  a  bonafida  Bank,  Office,  or  Counting -House. 

BRANCHES  TAUGHT: 

Single  and  Double  Entry  Book-Keeping,  Shorthand,  Custom  House  Business, 

,    Plain  and  Ornamental  Penmanship,  Modern  Languages,  Heal  Estate, 

Commercial  Arithmetic,  Typewriting,  Telegraphy, 

Business  Correspondence,  Railroading,  Commission, 

Mercantile  Law,  Stenography,  Importing, 

Actual  Business,  Brokerage,  *'orwarding, 

Merchandising,  Exchange,  Grammar, 

Insurance,  Jobbing,  Reading, 

Banking,  Mining,  Spelling. 

The  Schoolroom  and  Countingn^oom 

Are  united  upon  a  plan  that  secures  to  the  student  all  the  practical  advantages 

of  each.     There  is  in  operation  a  Banking  House,  with  Checks,  Drafts, 

Notes,  Bills  of  Exchange,  Certificates  of  Deposit,  etc.,  fully 

illustrating  the  Banking  Business. 

INSTRUCTION    FOR    LADIES. 

Ladies  are  admitted  into  all  the  departments  of  the  College  on  the  same 
terms  and  conditions  as  young  men.  Their  progress  in  all  branches  thus  far 
has  been  most  flattering. 

GKENERAL   INFORMATION. 

Pupils  can  enter  the  College  at  any  time  and  pursue  their  studies  to 
graduation,  without  interruption,  if  they  see  fit  to  do  so.  Pupils  not  sufficiently 
advanced  for  the  Business  Course  can  enter  for  instruction  in  the  English 
Department. 

Modern  Languages,  Shorthand,  Typewriting  and  Telegraphy  are  optional 
studies,  and  may  be  taken  or  not,  as  the  student  may  see  fit,  but  no  extra 
arge  will  be  made  for  them  when  pursued. 

The  discipline  of  the  school  is  very  careful,  in  order  to  impart  such  habits 
as  shall  conduce  to  the  future  success  of  graduates. 

Visitors  will  be  always  welcome  at  the  College,  as  we  are  pleased  to  have 
the  public  inform  itself  of  the  merits  of  our  school. 

There  is  no  extra  charge  for  any  study  taught  in  the  school ;  everything  is 
included  under  one  tuition  fee  of  $75  for  the  six  months'  course. 

Further  Information. — Full  particulars  regarding  the  school  and  its 
workings  may  be  had  at  the  office  of  the  College,  24  Post  Street,  or  by  addressing 

JE>.     3P.     HRAIyiD     i&s     OO., 

24  Post  Street,  San  Francisco,  Cal. 


89 

Cream   Cake* 

One  cup  of  sugar  and  three  eggs  beaten  together,  one  and  one-half  cups  of 
flour,  two  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder  well  mixed,  dry,  three  tablespoonfuls 
water  ;  bake  in  two  tin  pie  plates,  making;  two  cakes. 

CUSTARD  OR  CREAM— Take  nearly  a  pint  of  E WELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY 
BOTTLED  MILK,  heat,  and  when  nearly  boiling  add  two  small  tablespoon- 
fuls corn  starch,  wet  with  a  little  cold  milk,  two  beaten  eggs,  with  one-half  cup 
sugar  ;  cook  and  stir  it  all  the  time  until  it  thickens  enough  to  drop  from  a 
spoon  without  running  ;  remove  from  the  stove,  add  a  half  teacupful  melted 
butter ;  when  cool,  add  two  tablespoonfuls  extract  of  vanilla.  Turn  out  the 
cakes  on  a  molding  board,  and  split  them  with  a  sharp  knife;  spread  the  cream 
in  each  cake. 

Lemon  juice  mixed  with  an  equal  weight  of  salt,  powdered  starch  and  soft 
soap,  rubbed  on  mildew,  will  remove  it. 

8"ift     Cake. 

One  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  one-half  cup  EWELL'S 
X.  L.  DAIKY  BOTTLED  MILK,  three  cups  flour,  the  whites  of  six  eggs 
beaten  stiff,  two  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder. 

FOR  FILLING. — One  pound  of  figs,  chopped,  one  teacup  sugar,  one-half  cup 
water,  put  them  on  the  stove  and  boil  fifteen  minutes  ;  put  it  between  the  cakes 
the  same  as  jelly. 

Almond   Cake. 

One  cup  of  butter  and  two  of  sugar  stirred  to  a  cream,  one  cup  of 
EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  two  cups  flour,  half  a  cup  of  corn 
starch  mixed  dry  with  two  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder  ;  beat  the  whites  of 
seven  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth  ;  stir  all  together  in  order  as  above,  adding  two 
teaspoonfuls  of  almond  extract.  Bake  in  layers. 

FROSTING. — Beat  the  whites  of  two  eggs  until  the  plate  can  be  turned  up- 
side down,  adding  half  a  pound  of  pulverized  sugar  ;  use  the  yolks  of  the  eggs 
for  chocolate  cake. 

Jflinnelta.il a   Cake. 

One  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  half  a  cup  of  butter,  one-half  a  cup  of 
EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK;  two  heaping  cups  of  flour  with  two 
teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  whites  of  six  eggs  beaten  thoroughly  ;  bake  in 
sheets. 

FOR  FILLING. — Take  a  teacup  sugar  and  a  little  water,  boil  together  until 
it  is  brittle  when  dropped  in  cold  water,  remove  from  the  stove  and  stir  quickly 
into  the  well  beaten  white  of  an  egg  ;  add  to  this  a  cup  of  stoned  raisins 
chopped  fine  or  a  cup  of  chopped  hickory  nut  meats,  and  place  between  layers 
and  over  top. 

B.eiiioii  Jelly  Cake. 

One  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  half  a  cup  of  butter,  beat  to  a  cream  ;  half 
cup  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  two  and  a  half  cups  of 
flour,  two  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  three  eggs  well  beaten  ;  bake  in  sheets 
or  jelly  tins. 

JELLY. — One  cup  sugar,  one  egg  ;  grate  the  yellow  rind  and  use  the  juice  of 
one  lemon,  one  tablespoonful  of  water,  one  teaspooiiful  of -flour  ;  place  the  dish 
in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water  and  let  it  thicken;  when  cool,  spread  between  the 
sheets. 

Mountain  Cake,  r*o.  2. 

Stir  to  a  cream  one  teacupful  of  butter  with  two  coffee  cupf  uls  of  sugar, 
add  one  teacupful  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  the  whites 
and  yolks  of  six  eggs  beaten  separately;  three  and  a  half  teacups  of  flour  well 
mixed,  dry,  with  three  heaping  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  and  two  tea- 
•spoonfuls  of  lemon,  orange  or  vanilla  extract. 


90 

exception  of  Paris,  the  insinuation  as  to  the  connection  between 
the  milkman  and  the  pump  handle  is  fully  justified.  We  recall 
the  old  story  of  the  lodging-house  keeper  and  the  dairyman. 
"  This  is  very  poor  milk,"  remonstrated  the  indignant  land- 
lady, as  she  gazed  at  the  sky-blue  liquid  in  the  milk  pitcher. 
"Sorry  for  it,  ma'am,"  said  the  dairyman  with  an  evanescent 
look  of  gravity,  "but  the  cow  lay  all  night  in  a  wet  pasture, 
and  the  rain  soaked  in  through  her  hide." 

It  is  fair  to  say,  however,  that  the  people  of  San  Francisco, 
as  a  rule,  get  very  good  milk.  The  180  dairies  which  supply 
the  city  range  from  the  smallest  capacity,  represented  by  a  one- 
horse  team  and  an  output  of  twenty  gallons  per  diem,  up  to 
enterprises  of  the  joint-stock  order,  which  daily  send  six-horse 
teams  to  town,  the  team  and  milk  representing  a  cash  value  of 
$2000. 

The  dairymen  in  the  small  way  of  business  get  their  milk 
chiefly  fram  the  ranches  in  Alameda,  Marin  and  San  Mateo 
counties  by  boat  and  train,  but  the  larger  concerns  are  located 
in  the  Mission,  and  especially  in  the  Guadaloupe  valley,  on  the 
San  Bruno  road,  seven  miles  from  the  new  City  Hall.  The 
approach  to  these  big  milk  ranches  is  by  a  very  pleasant  drive 
round  an  arm  of  the  bay,  with  stretches  of  marsh  land  and 
pleasing  expanses  of  clear-blue  water.  Of  course  the  water  is 
salt,  a  circumstance  which  appears  to  be  in  some  mysterious 
way  associated  with  the  success  of  a  dairy-farming  enterprise. 
Another  object  gained  by  locating  a  dairy  farm  on  the  shores 
of  the  bay  is  the  advantage  offered  for  transportation  of  the 
enormous  quantities  of  hay  and  special  feed  required  for  the 
cows. 

A  representative  of  the  Chronicle^  who  visited  one  of  these 
large  dairy  ranches,  went  away  a  wiser  though  not  a  sadder 
man.  The  first  object  that  met  his  eye  was  a  big  wagon  with 

(Continued  on  page  94..} 
Highest  Bates  of  Interest  at  People's  Home  SayingsBank. 


91 

Golden  Cake,  No.  1. 

"  The  yolks  of  six  eggs  well  beaten,  one  cup  of  sugar,  half  a  cup  of  butter » 
half  a  cup  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK;  flavor  with  lemon 
or  vanilla  extract;  sift  or  mix  well  together,  dry,  two  cups  of  flour  with  two 
teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  then  add  the  same  to  the  eggs,  etc.,  and  bake. 

Golden  Cake,  No.  2. 

Yolks  of  eleven  eggs  beaten,  and  two  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  EWELL'S 
X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  and  one  cup  of  butter;  mix  four  cups  of 
flour  with  four  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  and  just  before  putting  into  the 
oven,  mix  all  thoroughly  together;  flavor  with  lemon  or  vanilla  extract. 

Prudent  Cake. 

One  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  whites  of  three  eggs,  one  half  cup  of 
EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  two  cups  of  flour,  one  teaspoon- 
ful  of  baking  powder;  bake  in  two  layers  in  hot  oven. 

FROSTING. — Yolks  of  three  eggs,  one  cup  of  pulverized  sugar,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  vanilla  extract;  beat  twenty  minutes,  and  spread  between  the 
layers  and  on  top. 

Emma  Nevada  Cake. 

Three  cups  sugar,  one  cup  butter,  two  cups  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY 
BOTTLED  MILK,  five  cups  flour,  one  cup  raisins,  one  teaspoonful  cloves,  one 
teaspoonful  each  of  cinnamon  and  nutmeg,  two  eggs  and  two  teaspoonfuls  of 
baking  powder. 

Chocolate  Cake,  No.  1. 

One  and  one-half  cups  white  sugar,  one  cup  butter,  small  cup  of  EWELL'S 
X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  yolks  of  ten  eggs  well  beaten,  two  and  one-, 
half  cups  flour,  two  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder;  flavor  with  extract  of  vanilla j 
baked  in  sheets. 

ICING, — Take  whites  of  three  eggs,  beaten  stiff,  one  and  one-half  cups  pow- 
dered sugar,  six  tablespoonfuls  grated  chocolate,  and  two  teaspoonfuls  vanilla 
extract. 

Chocolate  Cake,  No.  2. 

One  cup  butter,  two  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOT- 
TLED MILK,  one  of  corn  starch,  two  of  flour,  two  heaping  teaspoonfuls  of 
baking  powder  mixed  dry  with  flour;  whites  of  seven  eggs  beaten  stiff;  add  all 
together;  flavor  with  lemon  extract;  bake  in  layers  or  sheets. 

ICING.—  Beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs,  sweeten  'and  add  chocolate  to  taste; 
cup  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK;  cook  a  few  minutes,  stir- 
ring continually,  not  allowing  it  to  boil;  flavor  with  vanilla  extract  when  cool. 

French  Chocolate  Cake. 

The  whites  of  seven  eggs,  two  cups  sugar,  two-thirds  cup  butter,  one  cup 
of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  and  three  of  flour,  three  tea- 
spoons of  baking  powder;  the  chocolate  part  of  the  cake  is  made  same  as  above; 
only  use  yolks  of  eggs  and  one  cup  grated  chocolate;  bake  it  in.  layers  and 
spread  a  custard  between  them,  which  is  made  with  two  eggs,  one  pint  of 
EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  one  half  cup  of  sugar,  one  table- 
spoonful  corn  starch,  and  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  extract. 

Don't  think  that  one  kind  of  milk  is  as  good  as  another.  EWELL'S  X.  L. 
DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK  is  ahead  of  all. 

Cream  Puffs,  No.  2. 

Stir  into  a  pint  of  boiling  water  three  cups  of  flour,  one  cup  butter  rubbed 
smooth;  after  it  is  cooled  stir  in  five  eggs,  one  at  a  time,  and  bake  in  small 
tins,  half  filled,  about  fifteen  minutes;  cream,  two  eggs,  one  cup  of  sugar  and  a 
small  cup  of  flour  boiled  with  a  pint  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED 
MILK  until  thick;  flavor  with  lemon  or  vanilla;  split  the  puffs  and  spread  the 
cream  between  the  parts. 


92 

Pop  Overs. 

Three  eggs,  three  cups  flour,  three  cups  E WELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOT- 
TLED MILK,  a  little  salt,  butter  half  the  size  of  an  egg,  two  teaspoonfuls  of 
•baking  powder;  beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  separately  and  add  last;  bake  in 
small  muffin  pans  in  a  quick  oven. 

Spoon  Crullers. 

Two  tablespoonfuls  each  of  lard,  sugar  and  E  WELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOT- 
TLED MILK,  two  eggs  well  beaten,  one  teaspoonful  baking  powder,  and  flour 
-enough  to  roll  out;  fry  in  hot  lard. 

Fritters. 

Four  eggs  well  beaten,  one  quart  of  flour,  two  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder, 
half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  enough  E  WELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK 
to  make  a  batter;  fry  in  hot  lard,  sprinkle  with  sugar,  or  eat  with  syrup. 

Hominy  or  Rice  Fritters. 

Two  cups  of  cold  boiled  hominy  or  rice,  one  cup  of  E  WELL'S  X  L 
DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  a  little  salt,  one  cup  of  sifted  flour,  with  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  baking  powder,  one  beaten  egg,  the  white  separately  and  added 
last;  beat  all  up  to  a  batter  and  drop  from  a  spoon  into  hot  lard. 

Cream  Fritters. 

Stir  into  one  pint  of  E  WELL'S  X.  L   DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK  one  and 

one-half  pints  flour,  mixed  with  two  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  adding  six 
eggs  well  beaten,  one  teaspoonful  salt,  and  lastly  one  pint  of  E  WELL'S  X.  L. 
DAIRY  BOTTLED  CREAM;  drop  this  mixture  from  a  tablespoon  into  hot 
lard,  and  fry  the  same  as  doughnuts. 

Dry  ink  stains  can  be  removed  from  white  cloth  by  oxalic  acid,  or 
lemon  juice  and  salt. 

Plain    l>o  tig  Sin  tit*. 

One  cup  sugar,  one  cup  E  WELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK  (sour) 
with  a  scant  teaspoon  of  soda,  one  or  two  eggs,  one  large  spoon  melted  butter, 
allspice  for  flavoring,  flour  sufficient  to  roll  out. 

Plain   Doughnuts,  No.  2. 

Six  tablespoons  sugar,  four  of  melted  butter,  one  cup  of  E  WELL'S  X.  L. 
DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  two  eggs,  a  little  salt  and  nutmeg,  one  teaspoon 
•of  yeast  powder,  scant,  and  one -half  teaspoon  of  soda  put  in  the  milk ;  flour 
sufficient  to  roll  out. 

Doughnuts,   No.   3. 

One  cup  sugar,  three  spoons  butter  or  lard,  two  eggs,  one-half  teaspoon 
soda  dissolved  in  a  cup  of  E  WELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK ;  flour 
sufficient  to  roll  out. 

Doughnuts,  No,  4U 

One  pint  flour,  half  pint  sugar,  three  eggs,  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an 
egg  ;  mix  the  sugar  and  butter,  add  the  eggs,  and  add  enough  of  EWELL'S  X. 
L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK  to  mix  them,  with  half  a  teaspoon  of  soda  in  the 
milk  ;  a  little  nutmeg. 

Mrs.    C.'s  Crullers. 

Four  eggs,  five  large  spoons  melted  butter,  four  large  spoons  EWELL'S  X- 
L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  eight  large  spoons  sugar,  nutmeg,  one  teaspoon 
,yeast  powder,  one-half  teaspoon  soda  in  the  milk,  fiour  sufficient  to  roll  out. 

E  WEIL'S  X.  t,.  DAIRY  BOTTJLED  ItfULK. 

PUREST  AND  BEST  IN  THE  WORLD. 


93 

Crullers, 

Five  eggs,  five  large  spoons  melted  butter,  eight  of  sugar,  two  of  water,, 
one  small  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED 
MILK,  a  little  nutmeg;  fry  in  hot  lard  ;  flour  as  above. 

Crullers,   No.    3. 

Five  eggs,  ten  tablespoons-  sugar,  seven  tablespoons  melted  butter,  one- 
small  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  a  teacup  nearly  full  of  EWELL'S  X.  L. 
DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  spice  ;  flour  as  above. 

Strawberries  and  cream  are  delicious  ;  but  how  much  more  delicious  if 
EWELL'S  X.  L.  BOTTLED  DAIRY  CREAM  be  used. 

Custard.   Cake. 

One  cup  flour,  one  cup  sugar,  three  eggs,  one  tablespoon  of  EWELL'S. 
X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  one  and  one-half  teaspoons  of  yeast  powder, 
a  little  salt. 

CUSTARD  FOR  SAME.- -One  cup  sugar,  half  a  cup  flour,  two  eggs,  a  pint 
of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK;  boil  the  milk,  then  add  the 
other  ingredients  well  beaten;  while  hot,  add  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  wal- 
nut ;  flavor  with  vanilla  ;  make  two  cakes  ;  split  them  to  fill. 

Orange    Cake. 

One  cup  powdered  sugar,  one-quarter  cup  of  butter,  one-half  cup  of 
EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLKD  MILK,  one  and  one-half  cups  flour,  two 
eggs,  one  teaspoon  yeast  powder,  one  teaspoon  flavoring;  bake  in  jelly  tins. 
This  will  make  three  layers. 

ORANGE  FILLING  FOR  ABOVE. — Take  the  whites  of  three  eggs  beaten  to  a 
stiff  froth,  one  cup  powdered  sugar  to  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  one  orange. 
Spread  between  each  layer  of  cake. 

S  Molasses  Cake* 

Two  cups   of  molasses,  one  cup   of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED 

MILK  (sour),  half  a  cup  butter,  one  large  spoon  dry  saleratus,  dissolved  and 
put  in  the  sour  milk,  a  full  teaspoon  ginger,  flour  to  roll  as  soft  as  possible  to 
handle,  and  take  it  from  the  oven  almost  before  it  is  done.  Bake  quickly. 

Sugar  Cookies. 

Two  cups  sugar,  one  cup  butter,  one  cup  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOT- 
TLED MILK,  two  eggs,  one  teaspoon  soda,  two  teaspoons  cream  tartar,  or  two 
teaspoons  of  yeast  powder  if  the  milk  is  sweet ;  spice  to  taste. 

Economical    Cookies. 

One  cup  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK  (sour),  one  teaspoon 
soda,  one  cup  lard,  two  cups  sugar ;  flavor  highly  with  lemon,  make  stiff  with 
flour,  and  roll  thin  ;  a  little  salt. 

Sure   Cough   Remedy. 

Take  six  limes,  slice  them,  cover  with  water,  and  boil  until  you  canrmash 
them  easily ;  add  one  pound  crushed  sugar,  and  one  pound  honey  ;  boil  until  it 
when  cold,  strain. 

Cookies,  No.   1. 

Eight  cups  of  flour,  two  ot  sugar,  one  of  butter,  one  cup  of  >  EWELL'S  X. 
L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  CREAM,  two  eggs,  one  teaspoon  of  baking  powder  ; 
flavor  with  orange  or  lemon  to  taste.  Sift  white  sugar  over  when  rolled  for 
cutting. 

USE   KWEL,L,'S   X.    I,.    DAIRY   MOTT'I.KW  Iflfl.K, 

PUREST   AND    BBBT   IN   THE   WORLD. 


94 

six  horses  harnessed  to  it,  and  loaded  up  for  the  journey  to  town. 
It  was  just  10:30  A.  M.  and  the  milk,  duly  strained  and  cooled, 
was  ready  for  transportation  to  the  city  office,  there  to  be  dis- 
tributed to  2,000  consumers  the  same  afternoon.  The  cows  are 
milked  twice  a  day,  and  as  there  are  600  of  them  the  sixteen 
milkers  are  kept  busy.  To  insure  dispatch  in  this  particular 
each  man  milks  the  same  cows  every  day,  for  it  is  a  well  estab- 
lished fact  that  an  animal  always  yields  more  when  handled  by 
a  familiar  milker.  It  is  also  a  fact  that,  though  there  are  600 
cows  on  the  ranch  and  the  stalls  are  exactly  alike,  every  cow 
will  walk  without  hesitation  into  her  own  stall  when  the  hour 
of  milking  arrives. 

The  milking  for  the  morning's  supply  has  to  be  completed  by 
9  o'clock  of  the  preceding  evening.  The  wagon  is  loaded  up 
by  10  o'clock  and  reaches  the  city  delivery  office  at  midnight. 
The  delivery  teams,  about  a  dozen  in  number,  then  commence 
the  distribution  of  the  load,  and  begin  to  deliver  at  the  doors 
of  consumers  about  i  A.  M.,  the  process  being  completed  in  six 
hours. 

The  numerous  references  to  ' '  swill  milk  ' '  in  medical  com- 
ments on  the  milk  supply  of  towns  naturally  prompted  the 
inquiry  whether  the  cows  of  the  great  San  Bruno  dairies 
are  fed  on  "swill,"  which  it  may  be  parenthetically  stated,  is 
the  refuse  of  distilleries.  It  is  well  known  to  medical  men  that 
cows  fed  in  this  manner  soon  get  into  an  unhealthy  febrile 
condition,  and  yield  poor  milk,  entirely  unsuited  for  children 
and  invalids.  For  reply  to  the  question,  the  Chronicle  represen- 
tative was  shown  the  special  food  prepared  for  the  cows.  In  a 
large  shed  was  placed  a  boiler  containing  three  tons  of  feeding 
material,  and  an  adjoining  tank  containing  two  tons  more, 
cooked  by  steam.  The  food  consisted  of  Egyptian  corn,  wheat, 
beans,  peas  and  bran.  The  cooked  food,  which  is  clean  and 

Continued  on  page  100. 
Deposit  Your  Sayings  with  Peoples'  Home  Sayings  Bank. 


95 

Cookies,  No.    3. 

One  cup  white  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  one  egg,  two  tablespoonfuls 
E WELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  and  two  teaspoonfuls  baking 
powder.  Add  sufficient  flour  to  roll  thin.  Bake  in  quick  oven. 

Cocoauut  Cookies. 

One  cup  sugar,  half  a  cup  butter,  one  egg,  two  tablespoonfuls  EWELL'S 
X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  one  and  a  half  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder, 
and  a  little  salt,  one  cup  grated  cocoanut,  enough  flour  to  roll. 

Neapolitaines. 

One  pound  flour,  half  a  pound  powdered  sugar,  half  a  pound  butter,  six 
eggs,  six  yolks  ;  mix  the  flour,  sugar,  butter  and  eggs  together,  adding  a  small 
quantity  of  extract  of  rose ;  if  too  stiff,  add  a  little  of  E  WELL '8  X.  L. 
DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK  ;  leave  the  dough  half  an  hour  in  a  cool  place  ;  roll 
it  out  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  and  cut  it  with  a  small  tin  cutter  of  any 
shape  ;  put  the  cakes  on  a  pan  slightly  greased,  and  color  the  tops  with  beaten 
egg,  and  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  with  some  chopped 
almonds  over  them  ;  cook  in  a  very  hot  oven. 

Cream  Cakes. 

One-half  pint  hot  water,  two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  butter  mixed  together  while 
boiling  ;  stir  in  two  cups  of  sifted  flour  ;  take  off  and  cool ;  when  nearly  cold 
stir  in  four  eggs  well  beaten,  then  drop  in  cakes  on  a  tin  pan  ;  bake  three- 
quarters  of  aii  hour. 

CREAM  FILLING.— One  pint  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK, 
two  well  beaten  eggs,  one  cup  of  sugar,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  corn  starch  ; 
boil  all  together  a  few  minutes  ;  a  small  piece  of  butter  ;  flavor  to  taste. 

Our  Ensign. 

EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  B01TLED  MILK,  purest  and  best  in  the 
world. 

Rice  Croquettes. 

Boil  one  half  a  pint  of  rice  in  a  quart  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOT- 
TLED MILK,  with  a  little  salt,  until  soft;  add  half  a  cup  butter;  two  beaten 
eggs  and  a  little  corn  meal;  make  them  such  shape  as  you  like,  and  drop  them 
into  hot  lard  or  fry  them  with  a  small  quantity  of  butter  or  lard. 

Jumbles. 

Two  cups  sugar,  one  of  butter,  three  eggs,  one-third  cup  of  EWELL'S  X. 
L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  one  and  one-half  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder, 
and  flour  enough  to  roll. 

Sponge  CSinger  Bread, 

One  cup  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK  (sour),  one  of  Or- 
leans molasses,  half  a  cup  butter,  two  eggs,  one  teaspoon  soda,  one  tablespoon 
ginger,  flour  to  make  as  thick  as  pound  cake;  put  butter,  molasses  and  ginger 
all  together,  make  them  quite  warm,  add  the  milk,  flour,  eggs  and  soda,  and 
bake  as  soon  as  possible. 

Ginger  Snaps. 

Two  cups  molasses,  one-half  cup  sugar,  one  cup  lard  or  butter;  boil  to- 
gether; then  add  when  cool  one-half  cup  of  EVV ELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED 
MILK  with  two  teaspoonfuls  soda  dissolved  in  it,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  ginger; 
mix  with  flour,  roll  and  bake. 

I^emon  Snaps. 

One  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  two  eggs,  one  teaspoonful  lemon,  a 
quarter  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  a  teaspoonful  of  EWELL'S  X.  L. 
DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  flour  enough  to  make  it  very  stiff,  and  roll  very 
thin. 


96 

Cookies* 

Two-thirds  of  a  teacupful  of  butter,  one  coffeecupful  of  sugar,  two  beaten 
eggs,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  two 
teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  two  teaspoonfuls  vanilla;  mix  with  tiour  as  soft  as 
can  be  well  rolled  out. 

Use  oxalic  acid  for  brightening  zinc  bathtubs. 

Molasses  I*onnd  Cake. 

One  cup  sugar,  half  cup  butter,  four  eggs,  two  cups  molasses,  one  cup  of 
EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  two  teaspoons  of  yeast  powder, 
one  glass  wine  or  brandy,  one  nutmeg,  five  cups  flour,  well  beaten. 

Harrison  Cake. 

Two  cups  molasses,  one  cup  butter,  one  of  sugar,  one  of  EWELL'S  X.  L. 
DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK  (sour),  one  teaspoon  of  soda,  one  of  cloves,  two  tea- 
cups of  currants  or  raisins,  flour  to  make  as  stiff  as  cup  cake. 

Soft   Gingerbread. 

One  cup  syrup,  one  cup  brown  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  one  cup  of 
EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  three  and  one-half  cups  flour,  two 
eggs,  one  teaspoonful  of  ginger,  two  teaspoons  yeast  powder. 

Soft  Gingerbread,  Hfo.  2. 

Three  cups  flour,  beat  one  cup  of  butter  and  one  of  sugar  together,  then 
add  a  cup  of  molasses,  one  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK 
(sour),  sweetened  with  a  little  soda,  four  eggs,  two  teaspoons  of  yeast  powder, 
spices  same  as  above,  and  three  cups  raisins. 

The  best  of  anything  is  always  the  cheapest.  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY 
BOTTLED  MILK  is  the  best  and  cheapest. 

Ulartha's  Cake,  for  Jelly. 

Three  eggs,  one  cup  sugar,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  one  cup  flour,  one- 
teaspoonful  cream  tartar,  sifted  in  the  flour,  one-half  teaspoonful  soda,  dis- 
solved in  a  tablespoonful  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK;  bake 
in  jelly  cake  tins,  and  spread,  when  cold,  with  fruit  jelly. 

Cream  Cake. 

Two  cups  powdered  sugar,  two-thirds  cupful  butter,  four  eggs,  half  a  cupful 
of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  soda, 
one  teaspoonful  cream  tartar,  three  cups  flour;  bake  in  thin  layers  as  for  jelly 
cake,  and  spread  between  them  when  cold  the  following  mixture:  One-half 
pint  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  two  small  teaspoonfuls  of 
cornstarch,  one  egg,  one  teaspoonful  of  vanilla;  heat  the  milk  to  boiling  and 
stir  in  the  cornstarch,  wet  with  a  little  cold  milk;  take  out  a  little  and  mix 
gradually  with  the  beaten  egg  and  sugar;  return  to  the  rest  of  the  custard  and 
boil,  stirring  constantly  until  quite  thick;  let  it  cool  before  you  season,  and 
spread  on  cake;  season  the  icing  also  with  vanilla. 

Coriander  Cookies. 

One  cup  butter,  three  cups  sugar,  one  cup  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOT- 
TLED MILK  (sour),  four  eggs,  six  cups  flour,  or  just  stiff  enough  for  a  reliable 
paste;  two  tablespoonfuls  coriander  seed,  ground  or  beaten,  one  tablespoonfiil 
soda  dissolved  in  boiling  water. 

USE  EWEULI'9S   X.   1^.   DAIM1T  BOTTUBD    MII.K, 

PUREST   AND   BEST   IN   THE   WORLD. 


97 

Aunt  If  jiiiiuili"*  Juml>les. 

One  cup  butter,  two  cups  sugar,  one  teacup  of  SWELL'S  X,  L.  DAIRY 
BOTTLED  MILK,  five  eggs,  one-half  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  boiling  water, 
one  teaspoonful  soda,  sufficient  flour  to  make  soft  dough;  roll  out,  cut  into 
shapes,  and  sift  sugar  over  them  before  they  go  into  the  oven. 

l^eiiioii  .1  imebles. 

One  egg,  one  teacupful  sugar,  one-half  teacupful  butter,  three  teaspoonfuls 
EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  one  teaspoonful  cream  tartar, 
one-half  teaspoonful  soda,  two  small  lemons,  juice  of  two  and  grated  rind  of 
one;  mix  rather  stiff;  roll  and  cut  out  with  a  cake  knife. 


Ring; 

One  pound  butter,  one  pound  sugar,  four  eggs,  one  pound  flour,  or  enough 
to  make  out  a  soft  dough,  small  wineglass  rose  water;  cream  the  butter  and 
sugar,  add  the  beaten  yolks,  then  the  rosewater,  next  half  the  flour,  lastly  the 
whites,  stirred  in  very  lightly,  alternately  with  the  remaining  flour;  have  ready 
a  pan,  broad  and  shallow,  lined  on  the  bottom  with  buttered  paper;  with  a 
tablespoon  form  regular  rings  of  the  dough  upon  this,  leaving  a  hole  in  the 
center  of  each;  bake  quickly  and  sift  fine  sugar  over  them  as  soon  as  done. 

Mrs,  E's   Jumbles. 

One  cup  sugar,  one  cup  butter,  one-half  cup  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY 
BOTTLED  CREAM  (sour),  one  egg,  one  teaspoonful  soda,  dissolved  in  hot 
water,  nutmeg  to  taste,  flour  for  soft  dough;  bake  in  rings  as  directed  in  pre- 
vious receipt. 

Fish  may  be  scaled  much  easier  by  dipping  into  boiling  water  about  a 
minute. 

Almond   .fumbles. 

One  pound  sugar,  half  pound  flour,  quarter  pound  butter,  one  teacup  of 
EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK  (sour),  five  eggs,  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  rosewater,  three-quarters  pound  almonds,  blanched  and  chopped  small, 
but  not  pounded,  one  teaspoonful  soda  dissolved  in  boiling  water. 

Cream  butter  and  sugar  ;  stir  in  the  beaten  yolks,  the  milk,  the  flour,  and 
the  rosewater,  the  almonds  lastly;  the  beaten  whites  very  lightly  and  quickly. 
Drop  in  rings  or  round  cakes  upon  buttered  paper,  and  bake  immediately. 

Spiced  Gingerbread. 

One  pound  flour,  one  pound  sugar,  one-eighth  pound  butter,  five  eggs,  half 
teaspoonful  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water,  one  teaspoonful  cream  tartar,  three 
tablespoonfuls  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  one  large  tablespoon  - 
ful  ginger,  one  teaspoonful  cloves,  one  teaspoonful  nutmeg,  one  teaspoonful 
cinnamon. 

NH  •»•;•!•   Gingerbread. 

One  cup  butter,  two  cups  sugar,  one  cup  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOT- 
TLED CREAM  (sour),  three  eggs,  one  teaspoonful  soda  dissolved  in  hot 
water,  two  teaspoonfuls  ginger,  one  teaspoonful  cinnamon,  five  cups  flour,  or 
enough  to  roll  out  soft. 

Bread  Cake* 

Take  two  cups  risen  dough,  also  two  cups  white  sugar,  one  cup  butter, 
creamed  with  the  sugar,  three  eggs,  one  teaspoonful  soda  dissolved  in  hot 
water,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK, 
half  pound  currents  well  washed  and  dredged,  one  teaspoonful  nutmeg,  one 
teaspoonful  cloves.  Stir  until  all  are  well  mixed  ;  beat  hard  for  five  minutes, 
let  it  rise  twenty  minutes  in  two  well  buttered  pans,  and  bake  half  an  hour 
until  done. 

KWEIJL'S  X.  t,  1>AIRY   BOTTI,EI>  UIII.K. 

PUREST  AND  BEST  IN  THE  WORLD. 


98 

Sweet   Wafers. 

Six  eggs,  one  pint  flour,  two  ounces  melted  butter,  one  and  one-half  cup 
powdered  sugar,  one  cup  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  one  tea- 
spoonful  nutmeg.  Beat  whites  and  yolks  separately  and  very  stiff,  rub  the 
sugar  and  butter  together,  work  in  first  the  yolks,  then  the  milk,  then  the 
flour  and  whites;  bake  in  waffle  irons,  browning  as  little  as  possible  ;  roll  them 
while  hot  on  a  smooth  white  stick,  not  larger  than  your  little  finger,  slipping 
it  out  carefully  when  the  cake  takes  the  right  shape. 

Take  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK.  You  will  never  re- 
gret it. 

Crullars,   No    4. 

Three  eggs,  six  tablespoons  sugar,  three  tablespoons  melted  butter,  two  of 
EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  two  of  yeast  powder,  and  a  little 
nutmeg;  flour  as  above. 

Nut  Cake. 

One  cup  melted  butter,  two  cups  sugar,  one-half  cup  EWELL'S  X.  L. 
DAIRY  BOT1LED  MILK,  two  eggs,  three  cups  flour,  one  teaspoon  yeast 
powder,  one  pound  English  walnuts,  broken  in  small  pieces. 

Raised   Doughnuts  (Sirs.  A.) 

'  Two  cups  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  one-half  cup 
yeast,  flour  enough  to  make  a  batter;  let  it  rise;  when  light  add  one  tablespoon 
melted  butter,  one  egg,  one  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  a  little  spice;  let  it  rise 
again  and  fry  in  hot  lard. 

•Immbles,  No.  2. 

One  cup  butter,  five  cups  flour,  two  of  sugar,  four  eggs,  one-third  cup  of 
EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  one  teaspoon  soda,  spice  to  taste. 

Coffee  Cake,  No.  2. 

One  and  one-half  cups  brown  sugar,  one  cup  molasses,  one  cup  butter, 
three  eggs,  one  coffeecup  coffee,  one  cup  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOT- 
TLED MILK  (sour),  one  cup  raisins,  two  teaspoons  yeast  powder,  two  of  all- 
spice, the  same  of  cloves,  same  of  cinnamon,  and  a  little  nutmeg,  five  cups 
sifted  flour. 

Sallie  JLiuiil  Cake. 

One  egg,  two  tablespoons  melted  butter,  one  cup  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY 
BOTTLED  MILK,  two  tablespoons  sugar,  two  cups  flour,  one  teaspoon  cream 
tartar,  one -half  one  of  soda  ;  bake  fifteen  minutes  ;  stir  the  butter  and  sugar 
together,  then  the  beaten  egg,  the  cream  tartar  in  the  flour,  etc. 

Frosting  for  Cake* 

Five  tablespoons  of    EWELL'S  X.    L.    DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  one 

cup  granulated  sugar,  flavor  with  lemon,  let  this  boil  five  minutes,  then  beat  it 
hard,  or  until  it  is  cool  enough  to  spread  on  cake. 

Washington  Cake. 

Three  cups  sugar,  two  cups  butter,  five  eggs,  one  cup  EWELL'S  X.  L. 
DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  four  cups  flour,  two  teaspoonfuls  cream  tartar;  one 
teaspoonful  soda;  mix  as  usual,  and  stir  in,  at  the  last,  one-half  pound  currants, 
well  washed  and  dredged,  one-quarter  pound  raisins,  seeded  and  chopped  fine, 
then  floured,  a  handful  of  citron  sliced  fine,  cinnamon  and  nutmeg  to  taste. 


99 

.Lincoln  4  'iik<* . 

Three-quarters  pound  butter,  one  pound  sugar,  one  pound  flour,  six  eggs, 
two  cups  SWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK  (sour),  one  grated  nut- 
meg, one  teaspoonful  powdered  cinnamon,  one-quarter  pound  citron,  one  table- 
spoonful  rosewater,  one  teaspoonful  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water,  and  stirred 
into  the  the  milk  just  before  adding  the  latter  to  the  cake;  cream  the  butter 
and  sugar,  put  with  them  the  yolks  whipped  light,  then  the  cream  and  spice, 
next  the  flour,  then  the  roeewater,  and  a  double  handful  of  citron  cut  in  slices 
and  dredged;  finally  the  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs;  stir  all  well  and  bake  in  a 
loaf. 

Salt  will  curdle  new  milk;  hence,  in  preparing  porridge,  salt  should  not 
be  added  until  done. 

I >o u  ;>  ii  11  ii  f  * . 

Mix  two  teaspoons  of  baking  powder  with  one  quart  of  flour;  beat  two 
with  one  coffee  cup  of  sugar,  adding  a  teacupful  of   EWELL'S  X. .  L.  DAI] 
BOTTLED  MILK,  and  flavor  with  nutmeg;  mix  all  together,  reserving  a  little 
flour  for  rolling  out;  fry  in  hot  lard. 

Don;;  limit*,  No  2. 

Two  quarts  of  flour,  four  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  one  teaspoonful 
of  salt,  two  cups  sugar,  two  eggs,  one  tablesp  toilful  of  mace,  one  tablespoonful 
melted  butter;  mix  with  E WALL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK. 

Oerman  Coffee  Cake. 

One  quart  flour,  two  scant  teaspoons  baking  powder,  salt,  two  heaping 
tablespoonfuls  sugar,  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut,  one  teaspoonful 
ground  cinnamon;  mix  well  together;  add  enough  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY 
BOTTLED  MILK  to  make  a  soft  dough;  roll  into  two  sheets  and  cover  the 
bottom  ef  two  medium  sized  pie  tins,  allowing  it  to  come  a  little  way  up  the 
sides;  wash  the  tops  with  egg  or  milk,  cover  with  sugar,  cinnamon  and  bits  of 
butter;  bake  in  moderate  oven  until  done. 

Coffee  Cake. 

One  cup  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  two  of  sugar, 


one  of  butter,  three  well-beaten  eggs,  three  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder  worl 
into  flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff  dough;  roll  out  thin  and  sift  ground  cinnamon 
on  the  sheet,  and  roll  up  into  a  roll,  cut  off  slices  from  the  roll  and  place  on 
tins;  before  baking,  sprinkle  rather  thickly  dry  white  sugar  on  the  tops  of 
the  slices. 

Strawberry  Short  Cake,  JVo.  1. 

Make  a  rich  crust  with  baking  powder,  flour  and  shortening,  roll  out  rather 
quick  and  bake;  split  with  a  sharp  knife  into  two  parts,  butter  them  well, 
mash  ripe  berries  with  sugar  and  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  CREAM, 
and  place  between  the  two  crusts,  eat  warm;  the  sugar  and  the  berries  make 
the  juice  needed. 

Strawberry  Short  Cake,  Hfo.  2. 

Make  a  crust  with  one -half  more  shortening  than  for  biscuit;  roll  out  one- 
'third  of  the  crust,  lay  it  in  a  bake  tin,  spread  butter  over  the  top;  do  the  same 
with  the  other  thirds  of  the  crust,  except  not  buttering  the  top  of  the  last  one; 
lay  one  on  top  of  the  other,  bake  in  a  quick  oven;  when  baked,  the  parts  will 
separate  easily;  mix  berries  with  plenty  of  sugar  and  some  of  EWELL'S  X. 
L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  CREAM,  and  place  between  the  layers,  and  send  to 
the  table  warm. 

USE  EWEM/S  x.  t,.  i>  \  a  a:  v  BOTTUEI> 

PUREST   AND   BEST   IN   THE   WORLD. 


100 

sweet  enough  for  human  consumption,  is  run  off  when  cold 
into  troughs  adjoining  the  stalls,  so  arranged  that  each  cow  can 
get  her  share  without  hinderance.  Every  pound  and  a  half  of 
this  food  produces  a  pound  of  milk.  The  common  notion  that 
cows  will  give  all  the  milk  required  on  grass  feed  alone  is 
rudely  dispelled  by  the  statistics  of  a  dairy  ranch.  Provision 
is,  however,  made  for  the  cows  on  this  particular  ranch  to 
obtain  a  share  of  grass  food.  When  the  Chronicle  representa- 
tive visited  the  place  the  cows,  600  in  number,  were  turned  out 
on  a  range  of  800  acres,  and  they  also  received  daily  four  tons- 
of  clover.  Lastly,  the  skim  milk  is  added  to  the  cows'  feed. 
The  healthy  appearance  of  the  herd  gave  abundant  evidence  of 
the  beneficial  results  of  the  treatment. 

Said  the  manager  :  "  Our  experience  is  that  the  production 
of  milk,  to  be  made  a  commercial  success,  must  be  conducted 
on  commercial  principles;  that  is  to  say,  by  producing  on  a  large 
scale  an  article  of  the  best  quality  at  a  good  price.  Not  a  drop 
of  water  is  added  to  our  milk,  because  a  certain  standard  is  re- 
quired by  our  consumers,  which  would  not  pay  us  to  depart 
from.  In  smaller  dairies  it  will  often  happen  that  the  milk  has 
to  be  watered  to  make  up  for  a  short  supply,  for  even  the  daily 
yield  of  a  cow  is  an  uncertain  matter.  I  can  point  to  my  record 
books,  and  merely  by  glancing  at  the  figures,  pick  out  the  hot 
and  cold  days,  for  cows  are  very  susceptible  of  atmospheric 
influences,  and  when  the  temperature  varies  [greatly  from  65 
degrees,  the  yield  of  milk  decreased." 

The  herd  of  600  made  a  brave  show  on  the  hillside.  They 
were  of  all  breeds  —  Devons,  Jerseys,  Shorthorns,  Ayreshires, 
and  Denmarks,  while  a  great  many  crosses  were  noticed.  It  is 
found  in  modern  dairy  farming  that  the  thoroughbred  cow  is  not 
the  best  for  dairy  purposes,  but  that  judicious  crossing,  with  an 
eye  single  to  the  yield  of  milk,  gives  the  best  results. 
(Continued  on  page 


Peoples  Home  Sayings  Bank  Pays  Interest  from  Date  of  Deposit 


101 

Boston  Strawberry  Short  Cake. 

One  quart  of  flour  sifted  dry  with  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  a 
little  salt,  one  tablespoonful  white  sugar,  mix  thoroughly,  add  three  table- 
spoonfuls  butter,  and  enough  of  SWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK 
to  form  a  dough;  roll  out  into  two  crusts,  lay  one  on  the  top  of  the  other,  but- 
tered slightly  between;  when  baked  and  partially  cooled,  separate  the  crusts, 
place  the  bottom  crust  on  a  platter,  cover  it  with  a  layer  of  ripe  strawberries, 
sprinkle  well  with  white  sugar,  lay  on  the  other  crust,  and  cover  with  berries 
-and  sugar;  eat  while  warm. 

Cream  I*uffs*. 

Into  half  a  pint  of  cold  water  stir  until  smooth  one  and  a  half  cupfuls  of 
Hour,  turn  the  same  into  a  spider  with  a  small  cup  butter,  cook  and  stir  all  the 
•time  until  well  done;  when  cooled,  add  four  beaten  eggs,  beat  well  and  drop 
the  dough  in  small  round  balls  on  a  tin,  so  that  they  will  not  touch  one  another, 
and  bake  them;  for  filling,  take  half  a  pint  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOT- 
TLED MILK,  two  beaten  eggs,  half  a  cup  of  flour,  rub  them  smooth,  and  add 
half  a  cup  of  sugar;  cook  it  in  a  tin  pail  set  in  a  kettle  of  hot  water,  stir  well; 
flavor  with  vanilla  or  lemon;  insert  custard  in  the  puff's. 


flayer  Cake. 

WHITE  PART.  —  One  cup  of  sugar  and  half  a  cup  of  butter  well  beaten  to- 
gether; half  a  cup  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  whites  of 
three  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  two  cups  of  flour  well  mixed  with  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  baking  powder;  bake  in  jelly  tins,  making  two  sheets  or  layers. 

DARK  PART.  —  Two  cups  of  brown  sugar,  one  small  cup  of  butter,  one  cup 
of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  yolks  of  five  eggs,  three  and 
one-half  cups  flour,  two  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  one  teaspoonful  each  of 
ground  allspice,  cinnamon  and  nutmeg,  one  coffeecupful  of  seeded  and  chopped 
raisins;  bake  in  jelly  tins,  making  three  sheets. 

FILLING.  —  Whites  of  two  eggs  beat  to  a  stiff  froth,  adding  white  sugar; 
spread  between  layers,  first  on  dark  and  then  on  white  sheet,  alternating  other 
sheets. 

Orange  Cake. 

Two  cups  sugar  and  half  a  cup  of  butter  stirred  to  a  cream,  one  cup  of 
EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  three  eggs  well  beaten,  three 
cups  flour,  with  two  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder;  bake  in  sheets. 

FROSTING.  —  Whites  of  two  eggs;  make  a  frosting  as  for  other  cakes;  save  out 
enough  to  frost  the  top  of  the  cake,  add  to  the  rest  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of 
one  orange,  or  two  teaspooufuls  of  extract  of  orange,  and  half  the  juice  of  one 
lemon;  spread  between  the  layers. 

Almond  Cake,  No*  2. 

Two  cups  of  sugar,  two  heaping  teaspoonfuls  of  butter,  one  cup  of 
EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  two  cups  flour,  whites  of  six 
eggs,,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  one  teaspoonful  of  lemon  extract; 
bake  in  jelly  tins. 

FOR  FILLFNG.  —  Pound  fine  in  a  mortar  two  pounds  of  almonds,  beat  two 
«ggs,  add  a  cup  of  sugar,  then  the  almonds  and  a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  extract; 
spread  between  the  cakes;  ice  the  top  and  sprinkle  with  chopped  almonds. 

Almond  Cake9  No.  3. 

Beat  the  whites  of  ten  eggs,  sift  two  cups  or  sugar  and  add  one  cup  of 
flour,  with  a  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder;  stir  very  gently  and  not  beat;  bake 
in  jelly  tins. 

FILLING.—  Take  half  a  pint  of   EWELL'S   X.    L.    DAIRY   BOTTLED 

CREAM,  yolks  of  thr*e  eggs,  two  tablespoonf  uls  sugar,  teaspoonful  cornstarch; 

T^oil  the  cream  and  beat  the  other  ingredients  in  with  half   a  pound  of  finely 

•chopped  almonds;  put  together  while  the  mixture  is  hot,  like  jelly  cake;  cover 

e  top  with  icing  and  chopped  almonds. 


102 


YOLO  MILLS 

TELEPHONE    568. 

Northwest  Corner  Mission  and  Main  Streets, 

SAN      FRANCISCO. 


HINZ  &  PLAGEMANN, 


Manufacturers  of  the  Celebrated 


Made  of  the  Choicest  White  Sonora  Wheat,  cleaned,  brushed 

and  steam-cooked,  so  that  it  will  be  ready  for  use  after  ten 

minutes  cooking. 


SPECIAL  ATTENTION   IS  CALLED  TO  OUR 

NORMAL  NUTRIMENT 

A  Nutritious  Substitute  for  Mothers  Milk  and  a  Nourishing 

Food  for  Nursing  Mothers,  Invalids,  Dyspeptics 

and  Convalescents. 

After  long  and  studious  experience  the  Nutriment  is  prepared  with  utmost 
care  and  conscientiousness,  from  the  very  choicest  of  cereals,  partly  changing 
the  starch  contained  in  the  same  into  dextrine. 

By  the  addition  of  the  salts  contained  in  the  husk  of  the  cereals  the  nutrive 
percentage  is  increased  beyond  that  of  any  similar  preparation. 

Its  Absolute  Purity  is    Guaranteed. 


103 


Spiced 

One  cup  of  brown  sugar,  one  of  molasses,  one  of  butter,  one  cup  of 
EWELL'S  X.L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  one  teaspoonful  each  of  nutmeg 
and  cinnamon,  one  teaspoonful  of  ground  cloves,  three  eggs,  four  small  cups  of 
flour,  and  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder. 

Marble  Cake. 

For  the  white  part:  Half  cup  butter,  one  and  one-half  cups  white  sugar, 
half  a  cup  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  two  and  one-half 
cups  Hour,  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  the  whites  of  four  eggs;  flavor  with 
lemon  extract. 

For  the  dark  part:  Half  cup  butter,  the  same  of  molasses,  two  of  brown 
sugar,  half  cup  of  sour  milk,  half  teaspoonful  so,da,  yolks  of  four  eggs  and  one 
whole  egg,  two  cups  flour,  spices  to  taste;  after  each  part  is  thoroughly  mixed 
butter  the  pans  well  and  put  in  first  a  couple  of  large  spoons  of  the  dark,  and 
then  the  same  of  white  part,  alternately,  until  all  is  used. 

Wedding  Cake. 

Whites  of  twelve  eggs,  three  cups  of  su^ar,  small  cup  of  butter,  a  cup  o 
EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  four  small  cups  of  flour,  half  cup 
cornstarch,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  and  flavor  with  lemon  extract, 
adding  a  cup  of  citron,  sliced  thin  and  dusted  with  flour;  bake  in  moderately 
hot  oven. 

Orange  Cake. 

One-half  cup  butter,  two  cups  sugar,  five  eggs,  one  pint  flour,  one  and  one- 
half  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  one  teaspoonful  of  orange  extract,  one  cup  of 
EWELL'S  X.L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK;  rub  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a 
cream,  add  the  eggs,  two  at  a  time,  beating  five  minutes  between  each  addi- 
tion; add  the  flour  sifted  with  the  baking  powder,  the  'milk  and  extract;  mix 
into  a  smooth  batter;  put  in  a  caker  tin  and  bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven 
half  an  hour;  when  cool,  cover  the  top  with  the  following:  Whip  the  whites 
of  three  eggs  to  a  froth,  then  carefully  mix  in  four  cups  of  sugar,  the  juice, 
grated  rind  and  soft  pulp,  free  from  pith  and  seed,  of  two  oranges. 

The  puniest  babe  c*n  drink  and  thrive  on  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOT- 
TLED MILK. 

"Washington  Cake. 

One  teacup  of  butter,  three  of  brown  sugar,  one  of  EWELL'S  X.  L. 
DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  four  eggs,  one  teaspoonful  each  of  cinnamon,  nut- 
meg and  allspice,  one  cup  of  seeded  raisins,  three  cups  of  flour  and  two  heap- 
ing teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder. 

Carolina  Cake. 

Two  cups  of  sugar,  four  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  one  cup  of  EWELL'S  X. 
L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  CREAM,  whites  of  eight  ezgs  beaten  stiff,  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  lemon  extract,  two  cups  of  flour  well  mixed  with  two  heaping  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  baking  powder;  mix  all  together  and  bake. 

Hickory  Nut  Cake. 

Two  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  butter,  stir  to  a  cream;  whites  of  six  eggs 
beaten  stiff,  one-fourth  cup  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK, 
three  cups  of  flour,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  one  coffeecup  of  nut 
meats;  bake  in  a  loaf. 

Corn  Starch  Cake. 

Two  cups  of  pulverized  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  butter,  stir  to  a  cream;  one 
cup  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  whites  of  seven  eggs 
beaten  stiff,  two  cups  of  flour,  one  of  corn  starch  and  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking 
powder;  flavor  with  almond,  lemon  or  orange  extract. 


104 


T  SRIQi  IF  KUIQQB  PI 


Some  of  the  Obstacles  that  Have 
to  be  Overcome. 


WHY   DOCTORS   RECOMMEND   IT. 


Some  allusion  has  heretofore  been  made  in  these  articles,  on 
this  subject,  yet  the  attention  of  the  public  cannot  be  too 
earnestly  fixed  on  this  important  point  of  their  milk  supply. 

While  claiming  to  produce  a  better  and  richer  milk  than  any 
other  dairy  that  serves  milk  in  this  city,  the  E  WELL'S  X.  L. 
DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK  CO.  do  not  claim  that  good,  pure 
milk  is  not  served  by  other  dairies.  Many  times  it  is  not  the 
fault  of  the  dairies,  but  of  the  men  employed  to  deliver  it. 

A  weak  man  (morally)  on  a  very  moderate  salary  is  often 
tempted  to  stop  at  a  saloon,  wet,  cold,  and  frequently  hungry, 
and  withal,  a  not  over-plethoric  purse.  The  temptation  to  make 
terms  with  the  saloon  man  is  obvious.  Result:  Several  gallons 
of  top  of  can  milk  is  furnished  the  saloon,  and  water  substi- 
tuted, and  the  poor  victims  are  the  customers  that  happen  to 
come  next.  This  is  only  one  of  the  incidental  risks  overcome 
by  Mr.  Ewell's<system  of  bottling  milk  warm  from  the  cow,  to 
say  nothing  of  the  fact  that,  by  fcis  system,  every  bottle  must 
and  can  be  accounted  for.  . 

Another  important  item  in  this  manner  of  delivering  milk  is 
{Continued  on  page  106.} 

Pacific  ISaulc  Sells  Drafts  on  every  Important  City. 


105 

Mountain  Cake,  No.  1. 

Sift  carefully  through  one  pound  of  sifted  flour  two  heaping  teaspoonfuls 
of  baking  powder,  whip  to  cream  half  pound  of  butter,  then  stir  into  the  butter 
one  pound  of  sugar,  the  yolks  of  six  eggs  and  about  half  of  the  flour;  then  add 
one  cup  of  E WELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK  and  the  remainder  of 
the  flour;  lastly  the  whites  of  six  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  lemon,  vanilla 
or  orange  extract  to  flavor;  bake  in  a  slow  oven. 

Cocoanut  Pound  Cake. 

One  cup  of  butter,  two  and  two-thirds  cups  sugar,  four  cups  flour  (scant 
cups),  four  eggs,  one  cup  cocoanut,  one  cup  sweet  milk  (E  WELL'S  X.  L. 
DAIRY,  PUREST  AND  BEST  IN  THE  WORLD),  two  teaspoonfuls  yeast 
powder. 

Corn  Starch  Cake. 

Whites  of  six  eggs,  one  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  sugar,  two  cups  of  flour, 
one  scant  cup  of  corn  starch,  one  cup  milk  (X.  L. ),  one-half  teaspoonful  yeast 
powder.  Very  nice. 


PIES. 


Pie  Crust. 

For  good  common  pie  crust,  mix  thoroughly  two  teaspoons  of  baking  pow- 
der with  one  quart  of  flour,  well  sifted,  dry  ;  then  take  half  a  pound  of  short- 
ening, more  or  less,  as  you  may  prefer  the  cooked  article  more  or  less  short ; 
crust  looks  nicer  when  lard  is  used,  but  part  butter  makes  a  better  taste. 
Rub  half  of  the  shortening  with  three- fourths  of  the  flour,  add  a  little  salt  if 
lard  only  is  used  for  shortening  ;  when  well  mixed,  add  just  sufficent  cold 
water  to  make  it  roll  out  easily  ;  divide  the  crust  into  two  equal  parts,  use 
one  for  the  under  crust ;  flour  the  rolling  board  and  pin  with  some  of  the  flour; 
for  the  upper  crust,  use  the  rest  of  the  paste,  adding  the  other  half  of  the 
shortening  and  the  remainder  of  the  flour.  Do  not  warm  the  shortening  to  a 
melted  state,  or  the  crust  will  not  be  flaky.  Less  shortening  will  be  required 
when  baking  powder  is  used  than  if  made  without. 

Squash  Pie. 

Steam  the  squash  over  boiling  water  until  soft  ;  strain  through  a  colan- 
der ;  one  pint  of  squash,  one  pint  E  WELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED 
MILK,  three  eggs,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  of  ginger,  and  one  of  nut- 
meg, a  little  salt ;  bake  without  top  crust. 

Pumpkin  Pie,  No.  1. 

Pare  and  grate  raw  pumpkin  ;  to  one  pint  of  grated  pumpkin  add  one 
quart  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  two  cups  sugar,  one 
teaspoonful  of  ginger  and  one  of  cinnamon,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  three 
well  beaten  eggs  ;  bake  in  custard  pans  with  an  under  crust. 

Pumpkin  Pie,  No.  3. 

Pare  nice,  ripe  pumpkin,  slice  into  small  pieces,  boil  or  stew  them  with 
water  enough  to  prevent  burning  ;  when  quite  tender  rub  the  pulp  through  a 
colander  ;  to  one  pint,  add  one  pint  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED 
MILK,  two  eggs,  one  cup  sugar  and  one  teaspoonful  of  nutmeg  and  ginger. 


USE  EWEM/S  X.   I.,.   1>AIRY  BOXTI,E1>   MILK, 

PUREST  AND  BEST  IN  THE  WORLD. 


106 

its  cleanliness.  Under  the  old  way,  every  vessel  used,  /.  <?.,  the 
milk  can,  the  cover,  the  utensil  for  receiving  it  furnished  by 
the  customer,  must  necessarily  be  exposed  to  the  dust,  dirt  and 
street  sweepings,  generally,  every  time  milk  is  transferred  from 
the  wagon-can  to  the  customer's  receptacle  in  dry  weather,  to 
say  nothing  of  the  drippings  from  oilcloth  coats,  etc.,  during 
the  rainy  season.  All  these  and  many  more  reasons  can  be 
mentioned  in  favor  of  bottling  milk  as  soon  as  strained,  and  im- 
mediately hermetically  sealed,  not  the  least  being  the  well- 
known  adaptability  of  milk  to  absorb  odors  prevalent  about  all 
dairies,  notwithstanding  the  utmost  care  is  taken  to  keep  every- 
thing clean. 

Another  good  feature  is  the  fact  that  every  bottle  shows  at 
once  the  cream  on  top  ;  if  not  uniform  it  would  show  at  once. 
And  if  you  find  your  milk  varies,  by  this  system,  you  have  only 
to  insist  that  your  bottle  be  not  opened  by  the  servant  until  placed 
before  you  on  the  table.  Do  not  conclude  at  once  that  your 
milk  is  not  as  heretofore,  before  insisting  on  this.  Good  rich 
milk  is  frequently  a  great  temptation  to  servants,  who  appre- 
ciate it  quite  as  much  as  yourselves.  It  is  risky  to  tamper  with 
EWEU/S  BOTTLED  MILK,  on  the  part  of  servants,  if  the 
master  or  mistress  are  only  ordinarily  careful. 

A  story  told  the  writer  by  one  of  San  Francisco's  most  suc- 
cessful retail  merchants  will  illustrate  this,  and  is  as  follows  : 

Being  put  by  his  physician  upon  a  milk  diet  for  a  disordered 
stomach,  and  having  heard  a  great  deal  about  EWELL'S  BOT- 
TLED MILK,  he  concluded  to  try  it,  using  altogether,  himself 
and  family,  four  quarts  per  day,  his  personal  allowance  being 
three  bottles.  Very  much  to  his  disgust,  one  day  he  found  his 
milk  very  different  from  what  it  had  been,  and,  as  usual  in  such 
cases,  began  abusing  his  milk  man  with  such  expressions  as 

{Continued  on  page  no.) 
Deposit  Your  Savings  with  Peoples'  Home  Savings  Bank. 


107 

Custard  Pie. 

Break  three  eggs  into  a  quart  bowl  and  beat  them  ;  add  two-thirds  of  a 
coffeecup  of  sugar,  a  teaspoonful  of  nutmeg,  and  nearly  a  pint  of  EWELL'S 
X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK  ;  stir  all  together,  pour  into  plates  lined 
with  bottom  crust,  and  bake. 

Cream  Pie. 

Lay  in  a  pie  plate  a  crust  as  for  custard  pie  ;  stir  to  a  cream  half  a  cup  of 
sugar  and  one  tablespoonful  of  butter  ;  add  two  well  beaten  eggs,  two  table-. 
spoonfuls  of  flour,  and  two  cups  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAJRY  BOTTLED- 
MILK  ;  mix  altogether  and  flavor  with  lemon  or  orange. 

Lemon  l*ie. 

Grate  the  yellow  part  of  the  rind  from  one  lemon,  and  squeeze  out  the 
juice  ;  one  cup  of  white  sugar  and  one  tablespoonful  of  butter  beat  to  a 
cream,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK, 
four  eggs  ;  mix  all  and  pour  into  a  crust-lined  plate  and  bake.  When  done,, 
beat  the  whites  of  two  eggs  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar,  spread 
it  over  the  pie  and  return  it  to  the  oven  to  brown. 

Sweet  Potato  Vie.  4 

Boil  or  bake  sufficient  sweet  potatoes  to  make  a  pint  of  the  pulp  when 
rubbed  through  a  colander ;  add  a  pint  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOT- 
TLED MJLK,  a  small  cup  of  sugar,  a  little  salt,  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  lemon  ;  bake  in  a  shallow  pan  lined  with  a  rich  crust.  When  done, 
beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  with  powdered  sugar  for  the  top,  and  brown  it  in 
the  oven. 

Rice  Pie. 

To  a  quart  of  boiling  water,  add  a  teacupful  of  rice,  boil  until  very  soft  * 
remove  it  from  the  fire  and  add  a  quart  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED 
MILK,  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  five  beaten  eggs,  a  teaspoonful  of  nutmeg  extract; 
sugar  to  taste,  and  bake  in  deep  pie-plates  with  an  under  crust  and  rim  of 
pastry. 

Cocoanut  Pie. 

For  a  pie  put  a  cnp  of  grated  cocoanut  to  soak  over  night,  if  it  is  dessi- 
cated ;  place  in  a  coffeecup  and  fill  it  with  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOT- 
TLED MILK.  When  ready  to  bake,  take  two  teaspoonfuls  of  flour,  mix  it 
with  a  cup  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK ;  place  on  the  stove 
in  a  tin  pail  placed  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water  ;  stir  it  until  it  thickens  ;  add  a 
tablespoonful  of  butter  while  it  is  warm ;  when  cool  add  a  little  salt,  the  yolks 
of  two  eggs,  sugar  to  taste  ;  add  the  cocoanut,  beating  all  together,  fill  the 
crust  and  bake.  When  done,  beat  the  whites  of  two  eggs  with  three  table- 
spoonfuls  powdered  sugar,  spread  on  the  top,  return  to  the  oven  and  brown 
slightly. 

Never  use  fresh  soap.  The  dryer  and  harder  it  is  the  less  it  will  stain  and 
waste;  and  the  longer  it  will  last. 

Corn  Starch  Pie. 

One  quart  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  two  table- 
spoonfnls  corn  starch,  two  cups  sugar;  mix  starch  in  a  little  milk,  boil  the  rest 
of  the  milk  to  a  thick  cream,  beat  the  yolks,  and  and  starch,  put  in  the  boiled 
milk  and  add  sugar;  bake  with  an  under  crust  ;  beat  whites  with  two  table- 
spoonfuls  sugar  and  put  on  the  top  of  the  pie,  and  when  done  return  to  the 
oven  to  brown. 

Whipped  <Veam  Pie. 

Sweeten  with  white  sugar  one  teacup  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOT- 
TLED CREAM,  made  as  cold  as  possible  without  freezing,  and  flavored  with 
lemon  to  taste  ;  beat  until  as  light  as  eggs  for  frosting,  and  keep  cool  until 
crust  is  ready;  make  crust  moderately  rich,  prick  well  with  a  fork  to  prevent 
blistering,  bake,  spread  on  the  cream,  and  to  add  finish,  put  bits  of  jelly  on 
the  top.  The  above  will  make  two  pies. 


108 

Cocoa.ni ut  Pie9  Ufo.  2. 

The  yolks  of  four  eggs,  the  whites  of  two  well  beaten,  one  pint  of 
EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  sugar  and  salt  to  taste ;  pre- 
pared cocoanut  to  make  quite  thick  ;  put  in  a  crust  and  bake. 

Apple  Custard.  Pie. 

Grate  twelve  large  apples,  add  a  teaspoon  salt,  sugar  and  nutmeg  to  taste, 
three  eggs  well  beaten,  a  pint  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK, 
a  tablespoonf ul  of  melted  butter,  and  the  juice  of  two  lemons,  also  the  grated 
rind  of  one  lemon  ;  line  your  plates  with  nice  crust,  pour  in  your  mixture  and 
put  strips  over  the  top;  sift  over  sugar  after  they  come  from  the  oven. 

Frosted.  I^emon.  Pie. 

One  lemon,  rind  grated  and  juice  added,  piece  of  butter  size  of  a  walnut, 
one  cup  sugar,  one  tablespoon  corn  starch,  the  yolks  of  three  eggs,  one  cup  of 
EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK  stirred  in  the  last  thing  before 
baking ;  for  frosting  use  the  whites  of  three  eggs,  and  three  large  spoonfuls  of 
powdered  sugar,  beaten  till  it  stands  alone.  Apply  the  frosting  and  lightly 
brown. 

When  you  ifce  milk,  you  want  the  purest  and  best.  That  can  only  be 
found  at  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY,  corner  Twenty-first  and  Folsom  streets. 

Ground  Rice  Pies. 

Soak  four  heaping  teaspoons  of  rice  in  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOT- 
TLED MILK,  and  cook  a  few  minutes  in  one  quart  of  boiling  water;  cool  and 
then  add  four  or  five  eggs;  bake  in  crust;  the  whites  of  three  eggs  may  be  re- 
served for  frosting  if  desired. 

Irish  Potato  Pie. 

One  pound  mashed  potato  rubbed  through  a  colander,  one-half  pound 
butter  creamed  with  the  sugar,  six  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  separately,  one 
lemon  squeezed  into  the  potato  while  hot,  one  cup  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY 
BOTTLED  MILK,  one  teaspoonful  nutmeg  and  same  of  mace,  two  cups  white 
sugar;  mix  as  you  do  sweet  potato  pie,  and  bake  in  open  shells  of  paste;  to  be 
eaten  cold. 

Chocolate  Xarts. 

Four  eggs,  whites  and  yolks,  one-half  cake  baker's  chocolate,  grated,  one 
teaspoonful  cornstarch  dissolved  in  water,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  EWELL'S 
X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  four  tablespoonfuls  white  sugar,  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  vanilla,  one  saltspoonful  salt,  one-half  teaspoonful  cinnamon,  one 
teaspoonful  butter,  melted;  rub  the  chocolate  smooth  in  the  milk  and  heat  to 
boiling  over  the  fire,  then  stir  in  the  cornstarch;  stir  five  minutes  until  well 
thickened,  remove  from  the  fire  and  put  in  a  bowl;  beat  all  the  yolks  and  the 
whites  of  two  eggs  well  with  the  sugar,  and  when  the  chocolate  is  almost  cold 
put  all  together  with  the  flavoring  and  stir  until  light;  bake  in  open  shel 
pastry;  when  done,  cover  with  a  meringue  made  of  the  whites  of  two  eggs  and 
two  tablespooufuls  of  sugar  flavored  with  a  teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice. 

Cocoanut  Custard  Pie. 

One  pound  cocoanut,  grated,  one-half  pound  sugar,  one  quart  of  EWELL'S 
X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  six  eggs  beaten  to  a  froth,  one  teaspoonful 
nutmeg,  two  teaspoonfuls  vanilla;  boil  the  milk,  take  it  from  the  fire  and  whip 
in  gradually  the  beaten  eggs;  when  nearly  cold,  season;  add  the  cocoanut  and 
pour  into  paste  shells;  do  not  boil  the  eggs  and  milk  together. 

USE   KWJUL.L.'g   X.   JL.    B>AIK  V    BOTTLED  TKEUK, 

PUREST   AND   BEST    IN   THE   WORLD. 


109 

Chocolate  Custard  Pie. 

One  quarter  cake  of  baker's  chocolate,  grated,  one  pint  of  boiling  water, 
six  eggs,  one  quart  of  E  WELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  one-half 
cu  white  sugai1,  two  teaspoonfuls  vanilla;  dissolve  the  chocolate  in  a  very 
little  milk,  stir  into  the  boiling  water  and  boil  three  minutes;  when  nearly  cold 
beat  up  with  the  yolks  of  all  the  eggs  and  the  whites  of  three;  stir  this  mixture 
into  the  milk,  season,  and  pour  into  shells  of  good  paste;  when  the  custard  ia 
set,  but  not  more  than  half  done,  spread  over  it  the  whites,  whipped  to  a  froth, 
with  two  tablespoon  fuls  sugar. 

Corn   Starch  Custard  Pie. 

Six  eggs,  three  pints  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  six 
tablespoontuls  white  sugar,  two  tablespoonfuls  corn  starch,  two  teaspoonfuls 
essence  bitter  almonds;  boil  the  milk,  stir  in  the  corn'starch  wet  in  a  little  cold 
milk,  and  boil  one  minute;  when  nearly  cold,  stir  in  the  sugar,  the  yolks  of  all 
the  eggs  and  the  whites  of  two,  flavor  and  pour  into  paste  shells;  whip  the  re- 
maining whites  to  a  meringue,  with  two  tablespoonfuls  white  sugar  and  a^tea- 
spoonful  of  vanilla,  and  when  the  custard  is  just  set  draw  your  pies  to  the  edge 
of  the  oven  and  spread  this  over  them. 

There  is  an  important  subject, 

That  appeals  to  one  and  all; 
To  men  and  women  and  children, 

To  creatures  great  and  small. 
MILK  is  the  point  in  question, 

Where  to  find  the  purest  and  best  — 
At  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY 

You'll  find  the  answer—  rest. 


Apple    Jlc-riiiss'lie   Pie. 


Pare,  quarter  and  stew  ripe,  tart  apples,  mash  and  season  with  nutmeg 
(or  stew  lemon  peel  with  them  for  flavor),  fill  crust  and  bake  till  done;  spread 
over  the  top  a  thick  meringue  by  whipping  to  froth  the  whites  of  three  eggs 
for  each  pie,  sweetening  to  taste  with  powdered  sugar;  flavor  with  vanilla  j 
beat  until  it  will  stand  alone,  cover  the  pie  three-quarters  of  an  inch  thick, 
set  in  oven  to  brown.  Peaches  can  be  substituted  for  apples. 

Apple  Pie,  No,  2. 

Stew  green  or  ripe  apples  when  you  have  pared'and  sliced  them,  mash 
smooth,  sweeten  to  taste,  and  while  hot  stir  in  a  teaspoonful  of  sweet  butter 
for  each  pie;  season  with  cinnamon  or  nutmeg;  when  cool,  fill  your  crust  and 
cross-bar  the  top  with  strips  of  paste;  eat  hot  with  sugar  and  EWELL'S  X.  L. 
DAIRY  BOTTLED  CREAM. 

Home-  Made  Apple  Pie. 

Pare  and  slice  three  good-sized  apples,  spread  them  on  the  paste,  spread 
over  them  three  tablespoonfuls  sugar,  small  piece  of  butter,  tartaric  acid  the 
size  of  a  pea;  sprinkle  over  all  a  little  cinnamon  and  cover  with  a  top  paste, 
cutting  several  small  strips  in  top  paste;  bake  until  well  done. 

CJreen  Apple  Pie. 

Stew  and  strain  the  apples  and  sweeten  to  taste,  add  a  small  piece  of  sweet 
butter,  flavor  with  rosewater;  bake  in  a  rich  paste  for  half  an  hour. 

l>riod  Apple  Pie. 

To  a  pint  of  stewed  dried  apples,  passed  through  a  colander,  add  a  pintf  of 
EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  three  eggs  and  three  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  sugar,  beaten  well  together  as  for  custard,  spice  with  a  teaspoonful  of 
cinnamon  or  clove;  bake  with  an  upper  and  under  crust;  this  will  make  two 
pies. 


110 

" '  Never  knew  a  man  to  keep  up  his  standard  after  making  a 
success,"  "Just  as  I  thought  it  would  be;  can't  depend  on  any 
t>ne!"   And,  waxing  warmer  as  he  reflected  upon  the  perfidy  of 
man,  and  particularly  of  milk  men,  he  finally  ordered  his  milk 
stopped,  and  told  his  wife  never  to  take   any  more  of  that 
EWELL'S  MILK.     The  terrific  outburst   finally  became   so 
•warm  that  his  much  more  level-headed  wife  appealed  to  the 
servant  as  to  the  cause  of  such  deterioration  of  the  milk,  who, 
"with  the  utmost  sangfroid,  stated  that,  having  an  urgent  neces- 
sity for  some  cream  to  use  in  some  of  her  culinary  concoctions, 
she  had  taken  the  cream  from  each  and  every  bottle  and  simply 
filled  them  up  with  what  was  left,  without  reporting  the  matter 
to  her  mistress.     It  is  needless  to  say  the  order  to  discontinue 
taking  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK  was  im- 
mediately   countermanded,  and  the  great  merchant,   meeting 
the  writer,  was  so  overjoyed  at  finding  that  there  was  at  least 
one  honest  man,   opened  out  upon  the  scribe  about  thusly: 
H'Say,  you  have  something  to  do  with  that  man  Ewell,  have 
you  not?"     "Yes,"   replied  the  knight  of  the  lead  pencil, 
1 '  what  of  it  ?  "      "  Well,  I  want  you  to  tell  Ewell  when  you  see 
liim  that  I  think  he  furnishes  the  best  milk  in  the  world;"  and, 
getting  the  cool  reply,  ''Well,  Mr.   Ewell  knows  that;  why 
should  I  tell  him  that  ? ' '     This  so  astonished  the  man  full  of 
EWELL'S  BOTTLED  MILK  that  he  almost  fainted,  and  com- 
ing down  to  business  told  the  story  as  given  above,  and  hence- 
forth will  no  doubt  be  a  walking  advertisement  of  EWELL'S 
X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED   MILK,  the  noted  improvement  in 
his  looks  being  enough  to  attract  the  attention  of  all  his  friends, 
whose  name  is  legion. 

Another  case  showing  the  advantage  of  a  milk  diet  when  it 
is  indeed  milk,  is  that  of  a  prominent  boot  and  shoe  dealer  on 
Market  street,  whose  friends  about  two  years  ago  did  not  ex- 

(Continued  on  page  112.) 
See  the  Battle  of  Gettysburg  at  Market  and  Tenth  Sts. 


Ill 

l>ried  Apple  Pie,  No.  2. 

Put  your  apples  in  a  jar  and  put  water  over  three  inches  more  than  to  cover 
them,  let  them  stand  over  night,  then  put  them  over  a  slow  fire  with  the  water 
in  which  they  were  soaked,  cut  a  lemon  in  thin  slices  and' put  it  to  the  apples, 
add  half  a  pound  brown  sugar  for  each  quart  of  apples,  let  them  stew  until  they 
become  soft,  turn  them  into  a  dish  to  become  cold,  line  a  pie  plate  with  nice 
puff  paste,  put  in  the  stewed  apples  half  an  inch  thick,  roll  an  upper  crust  very 
thin,  cut  three  small  slits  on  each  side  of  the  middle  and  put  it  over  the  pie, 
press  the  edges  together;  bake  in  quick  oven. 

Cherry  Pie. 

Line  the  dish  with  a  good  crust  and  fill  with  ripe  cherries,  regulate  the 
sugar  to  taste,  cover  and  bake;  eat  cold. 

Peacn  Pie. 

Line  a  pie  tin  with  puff  paste,  fill  with  pared  peaches  in  halves  or  quarters, 
well  covered  with  sugar,  put  on  upper  crust  and  bake;  or  make  as  above  with- 
out upper  crust;  bake  until  done;  served  with  E  WELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOT- 
TLED CREAM. 

Peacli  Pie,  No.  3. 

Take  good  ripe  peaches,  halve  and  stone  them,  make  a  nice  puff  crust  and 
lay  it  in  your  pie  plate,  lay  your  peaches  to  cover  it,  then  add  to  each  pie  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  half  a  cup  of  water,  sprinkle  over  the  top  a  little  cin- 
namon, bake  in  a  quick  oven  until  done;  serve  with  cream  from  the  X.  L. 
DAIRY  RANCH. 

Prune  Pie, 

Stew  the  prunes  until  soft,  then  cool  and  remove  the  stones,  sweeten 
them  and  season  with  clove  or  cinnamon,  bake  with  under  and  upper  crust. 

To  Make  Mince  Meat, 

Two  pounds  of  chopped  meat;  put  to  it  two  pounds  of  suet  free  from 
strings,  and  chopped  fine;  add  two  pounds  of  raisins,  two  of  currants,  picked, 
washed  and  dried,  and  four  pounds  of  chopped  tart  apples,  with  the  juice  of 
two  lemons  and  the  chopped  peel  of  one,  a  pint  of  sweet  wine,  a  pint  of 
chopped  cranberries  and  one  grated  nutmeg,  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  ground 
cloves,  allspice,  cinnamon,  mace,  three  pounds  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  molasses, 
large  tablespoonful  of  salt;  mix  the  whole  well  together,  let  it  cook  two 
hours  over  a  slow  fire,  put  it  in  a  stone  jar,  cover  it  close  and  set  it  in  a  cool 
place  for  use. 

Mince  Meat,  No,  3, 

To  five  pounds  of  the  round  of  beef,  after  it  is  boiled  and  choppr d,  add 
two  pounds  each  of  suet  and  raisins,  one  pound  each  of  currants  and  sugar, 
half  a  pound  each  of  butter  and  citron,  ten  pounds  of  apples,  chopped,  one 
pint  of  molasses,  one  of  brandy,  all  kinds  of  spices  to  taste;  mix  well,  put  in  a 
stone  pot,  cover  closely  and  set  it  in  a  cool  place  for  use. 

SUGGESTION. — Meat  should  be  perfectly  cold  before  chopping. 

Look  for  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK. 
Mock  Mince  Pie. 

One  egg,  four  crackers,  one-half  cup  of  molasses,  one-half  cup  sugar,  one- 
lialf  cup  of  vinegar,  one-half  cup  of  strong  tea,  one  cup  chopped  raisins,  a 
small  piece  of  butter,  spices  to  taste,  salt. 

E WEfJL'S  X.  7..  »AIRY  BOTTLKD  MII.K. 

PUREST  AND  BEST  IN  THE  WORLD. 


112 

pect  him  to  live.  Meeting  the  writer  one  day  recently,  the  noted 
improvement  in  his  looks  called  forth  the  jocular  remark, 
' '  Well,  I  am  beginning  to  think  you  will  pass  for  life  insur- 
ance; hadn't  you  better  let  me  put  in  an  application  for  ten 
thousand  ?  "  Very  much  to  our  surprise  his  reply  was:  "  That 
is  just  what  I  did  last  week."  This  astounding  piece  of  in- 
formation so  upset  the  writer,  who  has  a  friend  in  the  life  insur- 
ance business,  and  is  accustomed  to  throw  his  influence  that 
way,  that  he  felt  it  incumbent  to  ask  what  had  occasioned  so 
notable  an  improvement.  ' '  My  doctor  put  me  on  a  milk  diet 
and  ordered  me  to  take  EWELL' S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED 
MILK.  As  my  case  was  almost  hopeless  I  complied,  and  for 
many  months  lived  almost  wholly  upon  milk,  using  as  much  at 
times  as  four  quarts  per  day,  but  now  I  am  only  using  two 
bottles,  and  weigh  165  pounds.  Before  going  upon  the  milk 
diet  I  was  reduced  to  less  than  100  pounds,  and  if  Mr.  Ewell 
wants  any  reference  as  to  the  quality  of  his  milk  he  has  only  to 
call  upon  me.  I  think  the  milk  saved  my  life." 

Thus  it  will  be  seen  there  is  as  much  of  philanthrophy  as 
profit  in  producing  milk  upon  which  infants,  invalids  and  well 
people  thrive,  the  only  disappointment  being  the  difficulty  of 
overcoming  dishonest  competition.  If  the  few  honest  dealers 
that  supply  only  about  one-half  of  the  milk  used  in  this 
city  would  combine,  and  admit  none  into  their  association  but 
those  who  furnish  pure  milk,  and  charge  as  Mr.  Ewell  does, 
ten  cents  per  quart  for  it,  and  no  less,  they  might  control  the 
better  portion  of  the  family  trade  and  leave  the  cheap  restaur- 
ant part  of  it  to  vendors  who  can  produce  only  cheap  milk.  The 
unparalleled  success  of  the  EWELL  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED 
MILK  CO.  shows  that  people  are  willing  to  pay  a  fair  price  for 
a  good  article. 

(Continued  on  page 


Highest  Bates  of  Interest  at  People's  Home  Sayings  Bank. 


113 

Mock  Mince  Pie,  No.  2. 

Six  soda  crackers  rolled  fine,  two  cups  of  cold  water,  one  cup  of  mo- 
lasses, one  cup  of  brown  sugar,  one  cup  of  sour  cider,  one  cup  of  melted  butter, 
one  and  a  half  cups  of  raisins,  one  and  a  half  cups  of  currants,  one  and  a  half 
cups  of  citron  cut  fine,  one  tablespoonful  of  cinnamon,  one  teaspoonful  nut- 
meg, one  teaspoonful  of  clove,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  saltspoonful  of  black 
pepper,  one  wineglass  of  brandy,  two  eggs  beaten  lightly,'  mix  well;  sufficient 
for  six  pies. 

Raisin  Fie. 

One  lemon,  juice,  and  grate  the  yellow  off  the  rind,  one  cup  of  raisins,  one 
cup  of  water,  one  cup  rolled  crackers,  one  cup  sugar;  stone  the  raisins  and  boil 
in  water  to  soften. 

Pie. 


Wash  and  remove  the  skin  from  the  stalks,  cut  them  in  small  pieces,  fill 
the  pie  dish,  spread  over  four  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar,  a  little  butter,  and 
dredge  a  little  flour  over  the  top,  cover  with  a  thin  crust  and  bake  in  a  quick 
oven. 

Tomato   Pie, 

Take  ripe  tomatoes,  wash,  peel,  and  cut  in  slices;  fill  a  pie  plate  lined  with 
good  paste  with  them,  sprinkle  well  with  sugar,  and  sift  a  little  cinnamon  and 
grated  nutmeg  over,  add  two  teaspoonfuls  of  vinegar,  a  little  butter;  cover 
with  crust  and  bake. 

Orange   Pie. 

Five  crackers  rolled  fine,  a  pint  of  E  WELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED 
MILK,  one  orange  grated,  two  eggs  well  beaten,  sugar  to  sweeten  to  taste; 
bake  as  custard. 

Cranberry  Pie. 

Pick  a  quart  of  cranberries,  put  a  pint  of  water  to  them  and  put  them  in 
a  stew  pan  over  a  moderate  fire;  put  a  pound  of  sugar  to  them  and  stew  them 
gently  until  they  are  soft;  turn  them  into  a  dish  to  cool,  then  make  them  in 
pies  or  tarts,  and  bake. 

Goosel>erry  Pie. 

Take  off  the  stems  and  blossom  end  and  wash  them  and  stew  them, 
sweeten  to  taste,  make  them  in  pies  or  tarts  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Green  Currant  Pie. 

Pick  the  currants  free  from  stems,  stew  as  directed  for  gooseberry  pie. 


Paddings. 


Tapioca  Pudding. 

Soak  four  tablespoonfuls  of  tapioca  in  a  little  water  over  night,  or  'two 
hours;  boil  one  quart  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK  and  pour 
over  it  while  hot;  when  cool,  add  half  a  teacup  of  sugaij  one  egg  and  the  yolks 
of  two  well  beaten,  flavor  with  lemon  and  bake;  when  done,  beat  the  whites 
of  two  eggs  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  pulverized  sugar,  spread  upon  the 
top,  return  to  oven  to  brown. 

Catskill  Mountain  Pudding. 

One  pint  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  two  eggs,  one 
tablespoonful  butter,  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  one -half  teaspoonful  salt,  one 
quart  flour  and  two  heaping  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder.  Bake  in  cups.  To 
be  eaten  with  rich  sauce. 


114 


THK   TRIALS  OF  THE  BUSINESS. 

Very  few  of  our  citizens  have  any  idea  of  the  enormous  diffi- 
culties that  have  to  be  overcome  by  the  milkmen  of  this  city 
who  really  have  dairies.  We  do  not  include  the  so-called 
dairies  who  keep  their  cows  in  large  barns  and  feed  them 
entirely  on  brewery  slop,  but,  of  course,  they  being  in  the  city, 
have  the  use  of  good  roads.  But  the  milkmen  who  have 
large  ranches  of  hundreds  of  acres,  cannot,  of  course,  find  pas- 
tures for  their  cows  on  this  peninsula,  but  have  to  go  down 
into  San  Mateo  county.  The  past  winter  has  been  a  hard 
one  on  them.  Through  the  blunders  of  -  the  Street  Depart- 
ment, and  the  indifference  of  the  contractors  for  the  Omnibus 
railroad  extension,  the  old  San  Bruno  road  has  been  rendered 
impassable  at  times,  and  the  strange  fact  has  been  brought 
to  the  attention  of  the  public  that  we  have  not,  by  land,  a 
decent  outlet  for  San  Francisco,  or  a  single  road  that  an 
ordinary  load  can  be  hauled  over  by  the  best  of  horses. 

We  unhesitatingly  assert  that  there  is  not  in  the  whole 
United  States  another  city  of  its  size  that  is  so  completely 
isolated  in  winter,  in  bad  weather,  as  this  city.  It  is  a  disgrace 
to  the  municipality  that  there  is  not  a  single  good  all-through- 
the-year  road  or  drive  leading  out  of  this  city. 

During  the  past  winter  for  months  the  EWELL'S  X.  L. 
DAIRY  have  been  obliged  to  double  the  cost  of  hauling  their 
product  on  account  of  the  deplorable  condition  of  the  San 
Bruno  road,  and  at  one  time  had  actually  to  abandon  it.  The 
product  of  one  milking  that  should  have  been  brought  into 
their  depot  at  Twenty-first  and  Folsom  Streets  by  a  single  six- 
horse  team  was  started  one  night  in  two  six-horse  wagons,  one 
four-horse  and  one  two-horse  ;  at  one  point  on  the  road  one  of 
the  six-horse  wagons  actually  sunk  so  deep  in  the  road  that  it 

(Continued  on  page 


Pacific  Bank  Sells  I>r:tH>  on  every  Important  City. 


115 

Corn  Starch  Pudding. 

One  quart  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  except  enough 
to  wet  three  tablespoonfuls  of  cornstarch,  placed  in  a  tin  pail,  set  in  a  kettle  of 
^boiling  water;  add  the  yolks  of  four  eggs,  beaten,  half  a  cup  of  sugar,  the  corn- 
starch  and  a  little  salt;  let  it  boil  until  it  thickens;  when  cool,  flavor  with  one 
teaspoonful  of  vanilla,  pour  into  a  pudding  dish,  beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs, 
half  a  cup  of  pulverized  sugar,  flavor  with  lemon,  and  brown  in  oven. 

Bread  Pudding. 

One  quart  of  grated  bread  crumbs,  one  quart  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY 
BOTTLED  MILK,  yolks  of  four  eggs,  well  beaten,  butter  size  of  an  egg,  one 
cup  of  sugar,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder  and  two  teaspoonfuls  of 
lemon;  mix  all  well  together  and  bake;  beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  add  a  cup 
of  powdered  sugar,  flavor  with  one  teaspoonful  of  orange,  cover  the  pudding 
with  it,  and  bake  untiJ  browned  a  little. 

Christmas  Pudding. 

One  and  one-half  pounds  flour,  three  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  well 
mixed,  dry;  one  pound  suet  finely  chopped,  one  pound  clean  currants,  quarter 
.pound  sugar,  one  pound  seeded  raisins,  chopped,  two  ounces  citron,  one  tea- 
spoonful  each  orange,  lemon,  ginger  and  nutmeg,  one  teaspoonful  each  ground 
cloves,  cinnamon  and  allspice,  juice  of  one  lemon,  one  cup  of  EWELL'S  X.  L. 
DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  ten  well  beaten  eggs;  mix  all  thoroughly,  wring 
•out  the  pudding  cloth  in  hot  water,  flour  well  inside,  pour  in  the  mixture,  tie, 
and  boil  five  hours. 

EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  purest  and  best  in  the 
world. 

Cheap  Pudding. 

Put  in  a  tin  pail  two  quarts  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED 
MILK,  and  set  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water ;  when  very  hot  stir  into  it  one 
pint  of  meal ;  take  from  the  fire  and  add  one  teacup  of  molasses,  one  teaspoon- 
ful salt  and  two  teaspoonfuls  cinnamon  ;  bake  in  a  buttered  cake  pan ;  use 
•cream  sauce. 

Dearborn  Avenue  Pudding. 

One  cup  suet,  chopped  fine,  one  cup  chopped  raisins,  one  cup  of  EWELL'S 
X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  one-half  cup  molasses,  one  teaspoonful 
•cinnamon,  pinch  of  salt,  one  egg,  two  heaping  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder, 
sifted  with  the  flour  ;  use  flour  enough  to  make  as  thick  as  cake  dough ;  steam 
three  hours  and  serve  with  cream  sauce. 

Lake  Como  Pudding. 

Into  a  quart  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK  (boiling), 
stir  a  cup  of  corn  meal ;  into  this  stir  a  quart  of  sliced  sweet  apples,  add  a  cup 
of  molasses  and  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  mix  all  together  well.  When  ready  to 
put  into  the  oven  add  two  quarts  EWELL'S  X.L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK, 
pour  into  a  large  buttered  pudding  dish,  and  bake  slowly  four  hours. 
When  cold,  a  clear  amber  jelly  will  be  formed  throughout  the  pudding ;  the 
apples  will  be  of  a  dark  rich  brown. 

Orange  Pudding. 

Pare  and  slice  five  oranges,  pour  over  them  a  cofiecup  of  sugar,  make  a 
boiled  custard  of  one  pint  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  one 
tablespoonful  corn  starch,  and  the  yolks  of  three  eggs ;  when  cooked,  pour  it 
over  the  sugared  oranges.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  and 
•add  one  tablespoonful  sugar.  Spread  over  the  top  of  the  custard,  and  warm 
in  the  oven.  Eat  cold. 

EWELL'S  X.  JL.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK. 

PUREST  AND  BEST  IN  THE  WORLD. 


116 


IHFLDEHZA,  pjEOHOjlA  HMD  (JOLD& 

IN  START  RELIEF  AFFORDED  BY  THE  USE  OF 

JAY  EYE  SEE  LINIMENT 


NO  HOUSEHOLD  IS  COMPLETE  WITHOUT  IT. 

IT  IS  GOOD  FOR  MAtf  AND  BEAST. 


For  Cuts,  Burns,  Scalds  and  Sores  of  all  Kinds  JAY  EYE  SEE 
LINIMENT  is  the  Best  in  the  World. 


OTJX.X>  HA  VIE  IT! 


-FOR  SALE  BY  ALL  DRUGGISTS. 


California  Fruit  Salt 


SOUND  RIPE  KRUIT. 


The   Only   HARMLESS,    but  Thoroughly   Effective   Remedy,    for 

HEADACHE,    INDIGESTION,    DYSPEPSIA. 

AND    CONSTIPATION. 


it    i 


»TOMA.O:H  TROUBLES  ARE  CORRECTED 
BY  ITS  USE. 


.    117 

Apple  l>umplings. 

Pare  and  quarter  tart  ripe  apples ;  make  a  crust  by  using  a  large  tea- 
spoonful  of  baking  powder  to  each  pint  of  flower,  well  sifted  together,  dry,  one 
itablespoonful  butter  rubbed  into  the  flour,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  enough  of 
EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK  to  form  a  soft  dough;  rollout  one 
thin  crust  for  lining  the  sides  and  edge  of  a  baker,  put  in  the  apples,  add  a  little 
water,  cover  with  crust  half  an  inch  thick,  steam  half  an  hour. 

Cracker  Pudding. 

One  quart  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  one  coffee' 
-cup  sugar,  six  Boston  crackers  rolled  fine,  one  heaping  teaspoonful  baking  pow" 
der,  two  beaten  eggs,  a  little  salt,  a  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one  teaspoonful 
of  vanilla;  bake,  and  serve  with  sauce. 

Baked  Indian  Pudding, 

Three  quarts  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  six  heap- 
ing spoonfuls  meal,  three  eggs,  one  coffeecup  molasses,  one  of  sugar, 
butter  size  of  an  egg,  one  teaspoonful  each  of  nutmeg,  ginger,  cloves  and  cin- 
namon, salt,  one  coffeecup  seeded  raisins.  Boil  half  the  milk,  wet  the  meal  to 
a  thin  batter  with  the  balance  of  the  milk,  and  stir  into  the  boiling  milk  ;  when 
cool  add  the  other  articles  and  bake  slowly  for  three  or  more  hours. 

Iron  mold  spots  may  be  removed  from  books  by  first  applying  a  solution  of 
sulphuret  of  potash,  to  render  the  iron  soluble,  and  then  one  of  oxalic  acid, 
which  is  to  be  washed  off  with  clear  water. 

White  Puffs. 

One  pint  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  whites  of  four 
eggs>  whipped  stiff,  one  heaping  cup  flour,  well  sifted,  with  one  teaspoonful  of 
baking  powder,  one  scant  cup  powdered  sugar,  grated  peel  of  half  a  lemon,  a 
little  salt;  whisk  the  eggs  and  sugar  to  a  maringue,  and  add  this  alternately 
with  the  flour  to  the  milk.  Beat  until  the  mixture  in  very  light,  and  bake  in 
'buttered  cups.  Turn  out,  sift  powdered  sugar  over  them,  and  eat  with  lemon 
sauce. 

Cream  Pudding. 

One  pint  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  one  pint  of 
-flour,  one  teaspoonful  salt;  to  this  add  six  eggs  well  beaten,  with  8three  table- 
spoonfuls  of  white  sugar  and  one  teaspoonful  lemon  ;  bake  in  buttered  bish. 

Methodist  Pudding. 

Stew  prunes  or  any  small  fruits,  sweeten  to  taste,  and  while  boiling  hot 
put  in  a  few  slices  of  good  light  bread,  when  the  bread  is  saturated  with  the 
boiling  juice  put  the  bread  and  fruit  in  alternate  layers  in  a  deep  dish,  leaving 
a  thick  layer  of  fruit  on  the  top.  Put  a  plate  on  top,  and  when  cool,  set  on  ice 
or  where  it  will  get  real  cool.  Serve  with  sugar  and  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY 
BOTTLED  CREAM. 

Harrison     Pudding. 

Four  cups  flour,  two-thirds  cup  melted  butter,  one  cup  molasses,  one  of 
raisins,  one  cup  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DA  IKY  BOTTLED  MILK,  one  teaspoon 
of  soda,  a  little  salt;  steam  three  hours. 

Alaska  Pudding. 

One  pint  sifted  flour,  one  teaspoon  yeast  powder,  one-quarter  cup  sugar, 
•one  tablespoon  melted  butter,  one  gill  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED 
MILK,  one  egg,  a  little  salt ;  bake  in  cups;  wine  sauce. 

USE  TIIK  KKKrr  OF  i: VI;K YTIB •>«;, 

THE  BEST  IS  THE  CHEAPEST. 


118 

had  to  be  abandoned  and  another  wagon  brought  up  from  the 
ranch.  This  one,  after  going  a  few  hundred  feet,  broke  at* 
axle,  and  resort  was  then  had  to  sending  out  from  the  city 
depot  all  their  small  delivery  wagons,  which  twelve  hours  after 
their  regular  time  finally  got  through  their  delivery,  but  the 
teamsters  pronounced  the  road  actually  impassable,  and  to 
illustrate  the  indomitable  energy,  pluck  and  determination  of 
Mr.  Kwell,  who  realizes  how  much  inconvenience  results 
from  his  customers  not  getting  their  milk  at  the  accustomed 
time,  chartered  a  steamer,  and  for  many  days  brought  his  milk 
into  town  at  an  expense  largely  in  excess  of  any  possible  profit. 
Such  enterprise  only  illustrates  why  Mr.  KwelJ.  succeeded  in 
placing  his  business  far  above  all  competition.  Reliability  is- 
appreciated  by  every  one,  and  in  no  direction  more  so  than 
where  it  ministers  to  our  necessities,  as  in  so  important  a  thing- 
as  our  milk. 


The   next   advertisement  is  that  of  McDonald's  wholesale 
and  retail  cracker  store,  where  can  be  seen  a  greater  variety  of 
crackers   than  was  probably  ever  gathered   together   in   one 
store.     Mr.  McDonald  makes  a  specialty  of  putting  up  assorted:, 
crackers  in  10  and  25  pound  boxes.     All  goods  delivered  free. 

On  page  64  the  advertisement  of  W.  M.  Loudan,  wholesale 
and  retail  agency  for  dress  forms  and  drapers.  Also  the 
Studabecker  system  of  dress  cutting  taught. 

On  page  58  B.  F.  Sterrett's  advertisement  appears,  one  of" 
the  largest  and  most  complete  printing  establishments  in  the 
city,  where  everything  in  the  printing  line,  from  cards,  book, 
bill  and  general  mercantile  printing  to  the  largest  plain  and 
colored  posters,  such  as  are  used  by  theatrical  people,  can  be- 
had. 

{Continued  on  page  120.) 

See  the  Battle  of  Gettysburg  at  Market  and  Tenth  St»o. 


119 

Salem  Pudding. 

One  cup  chopped  suet,  one  cup  molasses,  one  cup  E WELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY 
BOTTLED  MILK,  one  cup  raisins,  three  and  one-half  cups  flour,  two  tea- 
spoons yeast  powder,  a  little  salt.  Steam  three  hours. 

Do  not  drink  doctored  milk.  Drink  only  SWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOT- 
TLED MILK,  which  is  absolutely  pure. 

New  England  Corn  Pudding. 

Take  two  dozen  ears  green  corn,  well  filled,  but  young  ;  grate  or  pound  the 
corn,  and  add  two  pounded  crackers,  one  quart  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY 
BOTTLED  MILK,  four  eggs,  four  tablespoons  sugar  aud  a  little  salt.  Bake 
two  hours  in  a  moderately  heated  oven  ;  serve  with  batter. 

Corn  Pudding,  No.  2. 

One  quart  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  twelve  ears  of 
corn,  grated,  four  eggs,  piece  of  butter  size  of  egg,  and  a  little  salt. 

Tapioca  Fruit  Pudding. 

Soak  a  cup  of  tapioca  over  night,  cook  in  soft  water,  then  add  and  cook 
thoroughly  a  pint  of  preserved  raspberries,  strawberries  or  canned  peaches. 
Cool  in  molds  and  serve  with  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  CREAM. 

Cocoanut  Bread  Pudding. 

Soak  half  cup  dessicated  cocoanut  in  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED 
MILK,  boiling  hot,  for  half  an  hour  or  more,  then  add  to  it  the  usual  bread 
pudding  preparation,  the  quantity  of  bread  being  about  three  times  as  much  as 
the  cocoanut.  Enrich  and  flavor  to  suit. 

Snow  Pudding. 

Pour  one  pint  of  boiling  water  on  one-half  a  box  of  gelatine,  add  the  juice'of 
one  lemon  and  two  cups  sugar;  when  nearly  cold,  strain;  add  the  whites  of 
three  eggs  beaten  to  a  froth,  beat  the  whole  together,  put  in  a  mold  and  set  on 
ice;  with  the  yolks  of  the  eggs,  one  pint  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOT- 
TLED MILK,  one  large  spoonful  of  sugar  and  one  teaspoonful  cornstarch, 
make  a  boiled  custard,  flavored  with  vanilla;  serve  cold  by  pouring  custard 
around  portions  of  the  snow,  placed  in  saucers. 

Chocolate  Pudding. 

Let  a  pint  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK  come  to  the 
boiling  point,  add  one  half  cup  sugar,  two  tablespoonfuls  grated  chocolate,  one 
large  spoonful  cornstarch,  boil  until  thickened,  pour  into  a  mold  and  place  on 
ice;  serve  with  sugar  and  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  CREAM.  ,*&# 

Mountain  l>ew  Pudding. 

One  pint  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  yolks^of  two 
eggs,  two  tablespoonfuls  grated  cocoanut,  one-half  cup  rolled  cracker  crumbs 
and  one  teaspoonful  lemon;  bake  one-half  hour;  make  a  frosting  of  whites  of 
eggs,  and  put  in  the  oven  to  brown. 

Treat  acid  stains  with  hartshorn;  alkaline  with  acids.  For  instance,  if  the 
color  be  taken  out  of  cloth  by  whitewash,  wash  with  strong  vinegar. 

Baked  Indian   Pudding,  No.  1. 

Two  quarts  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  one  pint  meal; 
boil  the  milk,  stir  in  the  meal  gradually;  take  it  from  the  fire,  add  two  or  three 
eggs>  sugar  and  syrup  to  taste,  pretty  sweet;  if  whey  is  desired,  reserve 
part  of  the  milk  and  add  it  cold;  bake  in  a  well  buttered  dish  two  or  three 
hours. 


120 

CONTRASTS. 


Why  Swell's  X.  L.  Milk  Must  be  a 
Superior  Article. 


This  book,  in  previous  pages,  has  endeavored  to  demonstrate 
the  superior  advantages  of  E WELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOT- 
TLED MILK  over  milk  deposited,  transported  and  delivered 
in  metal  receptacles,  and  the  greater  nutrition  that  is,  and 
must  necessarily  be,  contained  in  a  pure  article,  kept  free  from 
occuous  contact,  and  which  is  from  animals  whose  healthy 
condition  and  careful  and  proper  nutrition  are  the  prime  consid- 
erations in  the  production  of  the  article.  All  this  goes  without 
saying  to  the  intelligent  mind  ;  and,  for  the  avoidance  of  repeti- 
tion, we  will  only  here  repeat  the  axiom,  which  is  every  day 
demonstrated,  that  "the  best  is  the  cheapest."  The  main 
object  of  this  particular  chapter  is  to  draw 

THE   CONTRASTS 

Between  a  pure,  honest,  carefully  and  physiologically  produced 
article  with  that  of  the  product  of  shiftlessness  and  ignorance. 
It  is  not  worth  while  to  charge' adulterations,  because  that  such 
are  freely  practiced  by  unscrupulous  persons  is  as  well  known 
to  the  reading  community — if  not  to  every  consumer — as  the 
fact  that  men  will  stretch  their  consciences  and  their  goods 
just  the  least  leetle  bit  in  the  struggle  for  existence  and  the  pur- 
suit of  the  almighty  dollar.  Numberless  newspaper  sensations 
and  volumes  of  scientific  scintillations  have  been  devoted  to 
"  swill"  milk.  Happily,  "swill"  milk  is  a  rarity  in  San 
Francisco,  but  it  exists  all  the  same  ;  and,  while  but  few  milch 

(Continued  on  page  122.} 
Deposit  Your  Savings  with  Peoples'  Home  Sayings  Bank. 


121 

Baked  Indian  Pudding,  No.  2. 

Three  tablespoons  Indian  meal  to  one  quart  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY 
BOTTLED  MILK;  sweeten  well  with  molasses,  mix  the  meal  and  molasses 
together,  and  stir  into  the  boiling  milk;  add  one  cup  of  cold  milk  for  whey,  a 
little  salt  and  nutmeg. 

Plain  Plum  Pudding. 

One  cup  of  fine  dry  bread  crumbs,  one  cup  scalded  raisins,  four  table' 
spoons  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  three  or  four  eggs,  and  one -half  pint  o* 
EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK  boiled  and  poured  over  the 
crumbs;  while  the  mixture  is  warm  add  the  butter  and  sugar,  letting  them  melt 
in;  when  cold  add  the  well  beaten  eggs  and  raisins,  a  little  salt  and  nutmeg  if 
you  like;  bake  in  buttered  dish. 

PI  11  si  To  re  Pudding. 

Four  cups  flour,  two  teaspoons  yeast  powder,  one  cup  sugar,  one  cup 
butter,  two  eggs,  one  cup  raisins,  one  cup  currants,  a  little  salt,  one  pint 
EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK;  spice  with  nutmeg  and  allspice; 
boil  or  steam  three  hours;  serve  with  wine  sauce. 

Plum  Pudding,  No.  1. 

One  and  one  one-half  cups  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK 
(sour),  one  spoonful  soda,  one  of  molasses,  one  cup  sugar,  suet,  raisins,  spices, 
and  flour  to  make  stiff  batter;  steam  three  hours. 

Twenty-first  and  Folsom  streets  is  the  principal  depot  for  EWELL'S  X. 
L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK. 

Troy    Pudding. 

One  cup  suet,  one  cup  molasses,  one  cup  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY 
BOTTLED  MILK,  one  cup  raisins,  three  cups  flour,  and  yeast  powder;  boil 
three  hours. 

Suet  Pudding. 

Two  cups  suet,  three  cups  flour,  five  eggs,  two  teaspoons  yeast  powder  and 
enough  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK  to  make  a  stiff  batter, 
a  little  sugar,  spice  and  fruit;  boil  three  hours;  to  be  eaten  with  a  sauce. 

Suet  Pudding,  No.  2. 

Two  and  a  half  cups  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  half 
a  cup  of  suet,  three  and  a  half  cups  flour,  half  teacup  of  molasses,  one  tea- 
spoon soda  dissolved  in  water,  one  teacup  raisins  and  one  teacup  currants. 

English   Plum  Pudding. 

One  cup  fine  chopped  salt  pork,  one  cup  chopped  raisins,  one  cup  molasses, 
two  teaspoons  soda  (scant),  one  and  one-half  cups  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY 
BOTTLED  MILK,  one  teaspoon  powdered  cloves,  five  cups  flour;  sterem  four 
hours. 

Gingerbread  Pudding. 

One  cup  molasses,  one  cup  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK, 

one  teaspoon  dry  saleratus,  one  teaspoon  cloves,  one  cup  raisins,  and  flour  as 
for  soft  gingerbread;  steam  one  and  one-half  hours.  Sauce:  One  cup  sugar, 
piece  of  butter  size  of  an  egg,  one  egg  well  beaten;  pour  about  three  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  boiling  water  over  the  mixture. 

•-:  W  KI.I/S  X.   r.   I>  A I  IS  Y  BOTTLED 

PUREST  AND  BEST  IN  THE  WORLD. 


122 

cows  are  fed  on  distillery  swill — as*  strange  to  say,  California, 
while  a  great  grain-producing  State,  contains  but  few  distli- 
leries  and  imports  the  major  portion  of  the  spirits  consumed  in 
her  borders — there  is,  in  many  instances,  in  the  vicinity  of  San 
Francisco  a  dairy  feeding  which  is  as  injurious  to  the  cow, and, 
consequently,  as  detrimental  to  the  purity  of  the  milk,  as  if  the 
animals  were  fevered  on  a  diet  of  distillery  swill.  Now,  as  to 
the  contrast  between  metal  and  glass,  admitting,  for  the  mo- 
ment, that  all  milk  sold  in  San  Francisco  is  from  cows  equally 
fed  and  cared  for  [which  is  not  the  case],  let  us  reason  a  little 
on  the  matter.  In  the  first  place,  the  pores  of  metal  are  more 
sensitive  to  the  absorption  of  filth  than  are  those  of  glass,  and 
are  less  easily  cleansed.  There  is  no  body — liquid  or  solid — 
which  in  the  nature  of  its  constituents  is  more  sensitive  to  the 
absorption  of  atmospheric,  metallic,  animal  or  vegetable  poison- 
ous particles  than  milk.  If  these  particles  permeate  the  pores 
of  the  vessel  in  which  the  milk  is  contained,  a  poisonous  residue 
remains,  which  in  the  case  of  some  so-called  dairies  is  never 
removed  by  cleaning,  but  remains  as  a  typhoidic  condition  in 
the  pores  of  the  metal  till  the  defunct  can  finds  its  way  to  its 
Potter's  Field  in  the  junk  shop.  That 

' '  GOOD   FOOD 

Makes  good  blood,"  and  that  the  blood  is  the  life,  are  two  ex- 
pressions that  we  cannot  forbear  quoting  in  this  connection; 
although  we  have  promised  to  endeavor  to  avoid  repetition  as 
to  the  hygienic  features  of  the  production  of  EWELL/S  X.  L. 
DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK  ;  but,  having,  either  purposely 
or  inadvertently,  been  led  into  this  lapse,  we  will  now  discuss 
this  question  from  a  chemical  standpoint.  This  we  propose  to 
do  in  a  homely  way,  as  freely  as  possible  from  technical  terms 
or  scientific  phrases.  One  of  the  active  principles  of  milk  is 
lactic  acid.  All  acids,  whether  animal,  vegetable  or  mineral, 

(Continued  on  page  124..*} 
Highest  Rates  of  Interest  at  People's  Home  Savings  Bank. 


123 

Bread  and  Butter  Pudding. 

One  quart  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  fourJeggs, 
sweeten  to  taste,  slices  of  bread  buttered  on  both  sides,  enough  to  cover  the 
top;  bake  in  a  large  shallow  pan  only  until  the  custard  is  set;  take  out  and 
spread  over  the  whites  of  four  eggs,  beaten,  sweetened  and  flavored;  bake  five 
minutes,  eat  cold. 

Batter  Pudding. 

One  pint  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  three  eggs,  six 
tablespoonfuls  flour,  a  little  salt;  bake  twenty  minutes  or  steam  three-quarters 
of  an  hour  slowly  until  nearly  done,  then  increase  the  heat;  serve  with  wine  or 
strawberry  sauce. 

Apple  Roll. 

Make  a  crust  as  for  yeast  powder  biscuit,  roll  out  the  size  of  a  large  plate 
nearly  an  inch  thick,  cover  with  apples,  sliced,  roll  up  carefully,  lay  on  a  plate 
and  steam  one  hour;  serve  with  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  CREAM. 

Farina  Pudding. 

One  pint  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  apiece  of  butter 
half  the  size  of  an  egg;  let  it  come  to  a  boil,  stir  in  three-quarters  of  a  cup  of 
dry  farina,  boil  it  until  it  does  not  adhere  to  the  sides  of  the  saucepan,  stirring 
it  constantly,  then  let  it  cool;  take  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  beaten  with  three 
large  tablespoons  of  powdered  sugar,  and  one  and  one-half  teaspoonfuls  vanilla* 
stir  in  the  farina  mixture,  stir  until  smooth,  then  add  one  pint  of  EWELL'S 
X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK;  stir  again,  then  add  the  whites  of  three  egga 
beaten  stiff;  put  in  the  oven  and  bake  for  three-quarters  of  an  hour.^ W..A 

Sponge  Pudding. 

One  cup  sifted  flour,  half  cup  sugar,  half  cup  butter,  six  eggs,  one  pint  of 
EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK;  wet  the  flour  with  a  little  of  the 
milk,  add  the  remainder  of  the  milk,  cooking  a  little,  then  add  the  butter  and 
sugar;  when  cool,  add  the  eggs,  beaten  separately;  set  the  dish  in  scalding 
water  and  bake  an  hour;  serve  with  cold  sauce. 

The  Queen  of  Puddings. 

One  pint  breafl  crums,  one  quart  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED 
MILK,  one  cup  sugar,  yolks  of  four  eggs  well  beaten,  grated  rind  of  one 
lemon,  a  piece  of  biitter  size  of  an  «gg;  bake  until  done,  but  not  watery,  about 
three-quarters  of  an  hour;  when  done,  spread  over  the  top  jelly  or  preserves? 
beat  the  whites  to  a  froth  with  a  cup  of  sugar  and  the  juice  of  a  lemon;  set  in, 
the  oven  to  brown;  pour  the  whites  on  top  before  placing  in  the  oven. 

Ink  spots  may  be  removed  from  a  book  by  applying  spirits  of  salts  diluted 
with  five  times  their  bulk  in  water,  which  may  be  washed  off  in  three  minutea 
with  clear  water. 

Puff  Pudding. 

One  quart  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  one  pint  sifted 
flour,  four  eggs;  bake  twenty  minutes;  to  be  eaten  immediately  with  cold 
sauce. 

Poor  Plan's  Pudding. 

Four  cups  flour,  one  cup  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK, 
one  cup  chopped  suet,  one  cup  molasses,  one  cup  raisins,  half  teaspoon  of  soda 
dissolved  in  a  little  water,  citron  and  currants;  boil  three  hours;  to  be  eaten- 
with  hot  sauce. 

Boiled  Kgg   Pudding. 

Eight  eggs,  one  quart  EWELL'S  X.  L  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  one 
pint  flour;  boil  one  hour. 


124 

have  a  reactive  effect  on  the  ignoble  metals,  and  tin  and  iron 
come  in  this  category.  This  action  is  the  freeing  of  mineral 
salts,  and  every  metallic  salt  is  a  poison.  Many  of  these  salts 
•are  used  in  medicine,  however,  but  only  in  infinitesimal  quan- 
tities under  the  prescription  of  a  physician.  Lactic  acid  is  as 
liable  to  produce  these  salts  as  is  sulphuric,  nitric  or  any  of  the 
stronger  acids  of  chemistry  or  commerce.  No  such  effect  can 
come  from  glass,  as  that  material  is  impervious  to  the  action  of 
acids  and  contains  no  poisonous  qualities  to  be  freed,  to  enter 
into  the  composition  of  the  contents  of  the  containing  vessel. 
Were  metals  as  non-sensitive  to  disintegration  by  acids  as  is  glass 
the  chemical  works  would  not  go  to  the  expense  and  trouble  of 
•confining  acids  in  the  clumsy  and  costly  carboy,  but  would  en- 
close them  in  neat  and  handy  metal  packages.  Agitation  of  acid 
against  metal  is  certain  to  free  the  metallic  salts,  and  the  rapid 
transportation  necessary  in  the  delivery  of  the  milk  from 
the  dairy  to  the  consumer  necessarily  causes  agitation, 
and  also  a  fermentation,  which  causes  are  sure  solvents  of 
the  metallic  salts  in  the  metal  of  which  the  containing 
vessel  is  composed.  If  our  milkmen  would  substitute  gold 
•or  silver  milk  cans  for  tin-plated  iron,  this  chemical  action 
would  not  take  place,  for  the  nobler  metals  do  not  respond  to 
'the  action  of  acids.  As  all  dairymen  cannot  be  Solomons, 
Neros,  Caligulas,  Mammons,  Croesuses,  Vanderbilts,  Jay 
Goulds,  Railroad  Princes  or  Bonanza  Kings,  the  consumer  can 
not  expect  to  have  his  milk  carried  to  him  in  gold  or  silver 
cans  ;  and,  therefore,  the  next  best  thing  is  glass,  which  is  in- 
ocuous  and  easily  and  readily  cleaned.  Even  were  glass  sub- 
ject to  the  chemical  action  of  lactic  acid  as  is  metal,  even  then 
EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK  would  be  safer 
than  the  milk  carried  in  cans  ;  for,  the  bottles  being  filled  to 
the  brim  and  hermetically  sealed,  there  is  no  chance  for  agita- 

(Continued  on  page  126.) 
Peoples  Home  Savings  Bank  Pays  Interest  from  Date  of  Deposit. 


125 

Amlierst  Pudding. 

Four  cups  flour,  three-quarters  cup  molasses,  one  cup  of  EWELL'S  X.  L. 
DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK  (sour  milk  preferable),  one  cup  chopped  raisins,  one 
cup  chopped  suet,  one  teaspoon  soda,  spice  to  taste;  steam  three  hours. 

Baked  Indian  Pudding,  No.  3. 

Two  quarts  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  ten  heaping  tea. 
spoons  Indian  meal,  one  cup  syrup,  piece  of  butter  size  of  an  egg,  little  salt; 
scald  the  meal  with  the  milk,  stir  in  the  butter  and  syrup;  reserve  half  a  cup 
of  milk  and  add  before  putting  in  the  oven;  bake  three  or  four  hours. 

Boiled  Indian  Pudding. 

Three  pints  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  one  pint  meal, 
five  eggs;  sweeten  and  flavor  to  taste;  boil  in  a  cloth  two  or  three  hours;  to  be- 
eaten  with  butter. 

Baked  Indian  Pudding,  No.   4. 

Two  quarts  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  one  and  one-half 
teacups  corn  meal;  put  two-thirds  of  the  milk  on  to  boil;  when  boiling  stir  in 
the  corn  meal,  then  take  it  from  the  fire,  add  the  cold  milk,  one  tablespoon 
flour  and  a  little  salt;  sweeten  with  sugar  and  molasses  to  taste;  add  half  a 
teacup  chopped  suet  and  one  teaspoon  ginger. 

B-orchester  Cracker  Plum  Pudding. 

Two  quarts  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  six  Boston 
crackers,  split  and  buttered,  eight  eggs  beaten  very  light,  two  cups  sugar,  nut- 
meg, cloves  and  cinnamon  to  taste,  one  teaspoonful  salt,  one  pound  raisins, 
seeded  and  cut  in  two;  make  a  custard  of  the  milk,  eggs  and  sugar,  seasoned 
with  the  spices,  by  heating  the  milk  almost  to  boiling,  then  take  it  from  the 
fire  and  add  gradually  the  yolks,  sugar,  seasoning  and  whites;  do  not  boil  it 
again;  butter  a  pudding  dish,  put  a  layer  of  crackers  in  the  bottom,  moisten- 
ing with  a  few  spoonfuls  of  the  custard;  on  this  lay  some  of  the  raisins,  a  thick 
stratum,  cover  with  crackers,  the  buttered  side  downward;  moisten  with  the 
custard  and  proceed  in  this  order  until  your  crackers  and  fruit  are  used  up; 
pour  in  custard  until  only  the  top  of  the  upper  layer  is  visible,  but  not  enough 
to  float  them;  cover  closely  and  set  in  the  cellar  over  night;  in  the  morning  add 
the  rest  of  the  custard,  at  intervals  of  five  or  six  minutes  between  the  cupfuls; 
bake  two  hours  in  a  moderate  oven;  eat  hot  with  sauce. 

Cracker  Suet  Pudding. 

One-quarter  pound  beef  suet,  freed  from  strings,  and  powdered;  one  cup 
fine  cracker  crumbs,  two  tablespoons  sugar,  four  eggs,  three  cups  EWELL'S 
X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  pinch  of  soda,  one  teaspoonful  salt;  beat  the 
yolks  with  the  sugar,  add  to  these  the  milk  in  which  the  cracker  has  been 
soaked  for  half  an  hour;  work  into  a  smooth  paste  before  putting  in  the  suet 
and  soda;  whip  the  whites  in  last  and  bake  nearly  an  hour;  eat  hot  with  wine 
'  sauce. 

Fruit  Cracker  Pudding. 

One  cup  powdered  cracker  soaked  in  one  pint  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY 
BOTTLED  MILK,  one-quarter  pound  beef  suet,  cleared  from  strings  and  pow- 
dered, one-half  pound  raisins  seeded  and  cut  in  two,  one-quarter  pound  cur- 
rants, washed  and  dried,  three  ounces  almonds,  five  eggs,  one-half  cup  sugar, 
one  teaspoonful  nutmeg  and  same  of  cinnamon,  rose  water  to  taste;  blanch  the 
almonds  and  cut  with  a  sharp  knife  into  thin  shavings;  beat  the  yolks  with 
the  sugar  until  light  and  thick;  mix  in  the  cracker  and  milk,  the  suet  and  fruit 
well  dredged,  the  spice  and  rose  water,  then  the  whipped  whites,  finally  the 
almonds;  bake  in  a  buttered  mould  one  hour  and  one-half;  eat  with  wine  sauce. 

USE  EWKLJL'S   X.   JL,.    DAIRY   BOTTUETO  JttlUK, 

PUREST   AND   BEST   IN   THE   WORLD. 


126 

tion  or  "churning"  in  carriage,  and  hence  no  possibility  of 
fermentation. 

LACTIC  ACID, 

As  chemically  known,  is  sugar  in  solution  induced  by  albu- 
minous ferments,  exposed  in  said  solution  to  the  atmosphere, 
producing 'an  element  known  as  diastase.  This  is  a  strong 
absorbent,  as  anybody  can  demonstrate  by  placing  an  open 
vessel  containing  milk  in  a  closed  receptacle,  as  an  ice  chest  or 
cupboard  where  other  food  articles  are  contained,  and  it  will  be 
found  that  the  milk  has  absorbed  the  odors  of  the  other  articles 
thus  brought  in  contact  ;  or,  if  said  milk  be  set  in  the  open  air, 
it  will  be  found  to  readily  absorb  floating  atmospheric  particles 
of  whatever  nature.  Now,  if  we  place  milk  in  glass  and  her- 
metically seal  the  orifice  of  the  vessel,  which  has  a  cap  so 
handily  arranged  that  you  can  draw  just  such  quantity  as  is 
required  for  use  at  the  time  being,  and  then  re-seal  the 
bottle,  it  must  be  apparent  that  the  fluid  so  protected  must  be 
free  from  contamination  from  the  outer  atmosphere,  as  well  as 
protected  from  the  opportunity  of  the  absorption  of  sur- 
rounding elements,  animal,  vegetable  or  otherwise ;  that  is  to 
say,  if  this  milk  is  put  in  the  same  cupboard  with  Limburger 
cheese  it  will  not  rob  the  cheese  of  its  perfume,  and  if  onions 
happen  to  be  on  the  same  shelf  in  the  closet  the  milk  in  the 
bottle  will  not  absorb  the  scent  of  the  onion. 

Lactic  acid  in  milk  fresh  from  the  cow  and  uncontaminated 
by  atmospheric  or  metallic  chemical  influences,  is  not  only 
nutriment,  but  medicine.  Set  this  acid  free  by  taking  it  up 
with  bi-carbonate  of  soda,  the  casein  separated  therefrom  fer- 
ments, and  by  the  addition  of  soda,  the  sugar  of  milk  contained 
becomes  butyric  acid.  The  effect  of  this  acid  on  iron  is  to  pro- 
duce the  lactate  of  iron,  which  causes  oxidization  of  the  metal. 
Now  all  these  chemical  products  from  the  action  of  lactic  acid 

{Continued  on  page 


People's  Home  Savings  Bank  Pays  Interest  from  Date  of  Deposit 


127 

Don't  let  yourself  be  cheated  as  to  milk.  Be  sure  and  use  only  EWELL  S 
X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK. 

Corn  Starch  Meringue. 

Five  eggs,  one  quart  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  three- 
quarters  cup  sugar,  four  teaspoonfuls  corn  starch,  one-half  cup  fruit  jelly  or 
jam;  heat  milk  to  boiling,  stir  in  corn  starch,  which  has  been  previously  dis- 
solved in  cold  milk;  boil  fifteen  minutes,  stirring  all  the  while;  remove  from 
fire,  and  while  still  hot  add  gradually  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  beaten  up  with 
sugar  and  seasoned  with  vanilla,  lemon  or  bitter  almond;  pour  this  into  a  but- 
tered pudding  dish  and  bake  fifteen  minutes;  spread  lightly  and  quickly  upon 
the  pudding  a  meringue  of  the  whites  whipped  up  stiff  with  a  half  cup  of  jelly, 
added  gradually;  bake  for  five  minutes. 

Fruit  Bread  Pudding. 

One  quart  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  five  eggs,  two 
tablespoons  melted  butter  two  tablespoons  sugar,  one-quarter  pound  raisins, 
chopped  and  seeded,  one-quarter  pound  currants,  handful  citron,  one  teaspoon 
soda,  dissolved  in  hot  water,  two  scant  cups  bread  crumbs;  beat  the  yolks 
light  with  the  sugar,  add  the  bread  crumbs  when  they  have  been  well  soaked 
in  the  milk,  and  stir  until  smooth;  next  put  in  the  fruit,  well  dredged  with 
flour,  and  finally  the  whites,  whipped  to  a  stiff  froth. 

Alice's  Pudding. 

One  quart  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  four  eggs,  one  cup 
fine  bread  crumbs,  one-half  cup  strawberry  jam,  one -half  cup  sugar;  butter  a 
pudding  dish,  sprinkle  the  bottom  with  bread  crumbs;  pour  over  these  a  half 
cup  of  jam,  and  cover  this  well  with  the  rest  of  the  crumbs,  wet  with  a  little 
milk;  heat  the  quart  of  milk  until  near  boiling,  take  it  from  the  fire  and  add 
gradually  the  beaten  yolks  and  sugar,  stirring  in  the  beaten  whites  lightly  at 
last;  heat  this  by  degrees,  stirring  constantly  until  it  begins  to  thicken;  put  it, 
spoonful  by  spoonful,  upon  the  layer  of  bread  crumbs,  taking  care  not  to  dis- 
turb these,  and  when  all  is  in  bake  until  well  "set"  and  slightly  browned. 

Baked  Apple  Pudding. 

Six  large  firm  Pippins,  grated,  three  tablespoons  butter,  one-half  cup  sugar, 
four  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  separately,  juice  of  one  lemon  and  half  the  peel; 
beat  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream,  stir  in  yolks,  the  lemon,  grated  apple,  lastly 
the  whites;  grate  nutmeg  over  the  top,  and  bake  until  nicely  browned.  Eat 
cold  with  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  CREAM. 

Sweet  Apple  Pudding. 

One  quart  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  four  eggs,  three 
cups  chopped  apples,  one  lemon,  all  the  juice  and  half  the  rind.nutmeg  and  cin- 
namon, one-quarter  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  a  little  vinegar,  flour  for  a 
stiff  batter;  beat  the  yolks  very  light,  add  the  milk,  seasoning  and  flour;  stir 
hard  five  minutes,  beat  in  the  apple,  then  the  whites,  lastly  the  soda,  well 
mixed  in;  bake  in  two  pans  one  hour  and  eat  hot. 

Pippin  Pudding. 

Eight  Pippins,  pared,  cord  and  sliced,  breaking  them  as  little  as  possible, 
one-half  cup  fiue  bread  crumbs,  two  teaspoonfuls  butter,  melted,  five  eggs, 
whites  and  yolks  separate,  three-quarters  cup  sugar,  one  ounce  citron,  shred 
finely,  one  teaspoonful  nutmeg,  and  a  dozen  whole  cloves,  one  cup  EWELL'S 
X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK;  soak  bread  crumbs  in  milk,  cream  butter  and 
sugar  and  beat  this  into  the  yolks,  next,  adding  milk  and  soaked  bread,  stir 
until  smooth  and  light;  put  in  the  nutmeg  and  citron  and  whip  in  whites 
lightly;  butter  a  deep  dish  and  put  in  sliced  apple,  sprinkling  each  piece  well 
with  sugar,  and  scattering  cloves  among  them;  pour  the  custard  you  have  pre- 
pared over  them  and  bake  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 


128 

on  metal  are  good  in  their  places  in  the  drug  stores  ;  but  we 
don't  want  them  in  our  milk  which  we  use  ourselves  or  feed  to 
our  tender  infants.  The  writer  once  heard  Brigham  Young 
preach  a  sermon  on  butter.  .  It  was  at  the  inception  of  the  Gen- 
tile migration  through  Utah  to  Montana,  when  the  Mormons 
found  ready  cash  customers  for  their  farm  products,  which  was 
something  new  to  them,  as  before  that  all  their  business  trans- 
actions were  carried  on  by  what  they  called  '  'Trade,  '  '  or,  in  other 
words,  swapping.  Said  Brigham  : 

'  '  I  want  to  say  a  few  words  to  the  sisters  before  we  sing  the 
doxology.  These  sons  of  Belial,  these  Gentiles  who  are  pass- 
ing through  Zion  in  search  of  Mammon,  complain  that  they 
find  hairs  in  the  butter  they  buy  from  the  Saints.  Now, 
brethren  and  sisters,  we  all  know  that  hair  is  a  good  thing  in 
its  place,  but  nobody  wants  it  in  his  butter.  '  ' 

So  with  metallic  salts  and  other  poisons  that  may  be  useful 
in  medicine  ;  they  are  good  enough  in  their  place,  but  we  don't 
want  them  in  our  milk. 

One  of  the  diseases  for  which  butyric  acid  is  prescribed  by 
physicians  is  chlorosis.  One  of  the  attendants  of  this  com- 
plaint is  an  abnormal  and  morbid  craving  for  chalk,  which  is 
eaten  with  avidity.  Victims  of  this  ailment  need  not  expect  to 
find  relief  in  this  particular  in  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  MILK  ; 
but,  for  purity  and  nutritive  qualities,  all  invalids  will  find  that 
this  milk  is  true  to  name  and  cannot  be  XL/d. 

A  RESUME. 

Mr.  Ewell  does  not  for  a  moment  intend  to  claim  or  convey 
that  PURE  MII,K  in  properly  cleansed  tin  vessels  is  poisonous  or 
injurious  to  health,  because  pure  milk  is  life  and  health-giving. 
But  what  he  does  claim  is  the  superiority  of  glass  over  metal 
as  the  containing  vessel,  on  the  score  that  under  the  metal 
system  there  is  always  a  liability  of  the  absorption  of  impurities 
by  contact,  atmospheric  or  otherwise,  and  a  possibility  of  inte- 
gration into  the  milk,  by  agitation,  of  the  poisonous  salts  con- 
(Continued  on  page 


OF  CJETTYSBURG  PANORAMA  is  GRANI>. 


129 

Apple  Batter  Pudding. 

One  pint  E WELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  two  cups  flour,  four 
eggs;  one  teaspoonful  salt,  one-quarter  teaspoonful  soda,  dissolved  in  hot 
water;  peel  and  core  eight  apples  carefully,  and  range  them  closely  in  deep 
dish;  beat  the  batter  very  light  and  pour  over  them;  bake  an  hour. 

Plum  Pudding,  No.  2. 

One  and  one-half  pints  bread  crumbs,  six  tablespoonfuls  sugar,  two  pints 
SWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK  poured  boiling  on  the  bread,  three 
eggs,  half  cup  butter,  one  pound  raisins,  one  wineglass  wine. 

Cottage    Pudding. 

One  pint  flour,  three  teaspoons  yeast  powder,  one  cup  sugar,  one  egg,  a 
piece  of  butter  same  size,  one  cup  of  E  WELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED 
MILK;  to  be  eaten  immediately  with  sauce;  bake  half  an  hour  in  moderate 
oven. 

Tapioca,  and  Apple  Pudding. 

Take  about  seven  good-sized  apples,  core  them;  boil  one  cup  tapiooa  in  one 
quart  water  until  thoroughly  dissolved  (about  one  hour);  add  half  a  cup  sugar, 
one  teaspoon  salt,  a  little  butter  and  nutmeg;  pour  over  the  apples  when  they 
are  well  cooked;  eat  with  E  WELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  CREAM. 

A  Nice  Rice  Pudding. 

One  quart  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  one  cup  rice,  a 
little  salt;  boil  until  soft,  take  from  the  fire,  stir  in  the  yolks  of  three  eggs,  a 
small  piece  of  butter;  sweeten  and  flavor  to  taste;  put  in  a  dish,  take  the  whites 
and  one  cup  sugar,  beat  well,  pour  over  the  top  and  brown  in  the  oven. 

Rice  Pudding,  No.  2. 

Take  half  teacup  rice,  two  quarts  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED 
MILK,  a  little  salt:  sweeten  and  flavor  to  taste,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
two  or  three  hours,  stirring  frequently  during  the  first  hour;  a  cup  of  milk  may 
be  reserved  and  added  when  you  cease  stirring;  to  be  eaten  cold. 

Apple  Meringue  Pudding. 

One  pint  stewed  apples,  three  eggs,  one-half  cup  white  sugar  and  one  tea- 
spoon butter,  one  teaspoon  nutmeg  and  cinnamon  mixed,  one  teaspoon  essence 
bitter  almond  (for  the  meringue);  sweeten  and  spice,  and  while  apple  is  still 
very  hot,  stir  in  butter  and  yolks  of  eggs;  beat  all  light,  pour  into  buttered 
dish  and  bake  ten  minutes;  cover,  without  drawing  from  oven,  with  a  meringue 
made  of  beaten  whites,  two  tablespoons  white  sugar,  and  bitter  almond  season- 
ing; brown  slightly;  eat  with  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  CREAM. 

Cracker  aotd  Jam  Pudding. 

Three  eggs,  one-half  cup  cracker  crumbs,  one-half  cup  sugar,  one  table- 
spoon butter,  one  teacup  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  one- 
half  lemon,  juice  and  grated  rind,  three  tablespoons  jam;  soak  the  crackers  in 
the  milk,  rub  the  butter  and  sugar  together,  adding  the  lemon,  and  beating  to 
a  cream;  then  stir  in  the  beaten  yolks,  next  the  cracker  and  milk,  lastly  the 
whites;  butter  a  deep  dish  and  put  the  jam,  which  should  be  pretty  stiff,  at  the 
bottom;  fill  up  with  the  mixture,  and  bake  about  half  an  hour;  eat  cold. 

Paper  yellowed  by  age  or  water  stains  may  be  bleached  by  immersion£in  a 
bath  of  chlorine  and  subsequent  rinsing  in  clean  water. 

X.  JL.  »AIRY  BOTTLED  JUHLK. 

PUREST  AND  BEST  IN  THE  WORLD. 


130 

tained  in  the  enclosing  metal.  Such  contingencies  are  abso- 
lutely impossible  under  the  glass  system  as  pursued  by  Mr. 
Bwell. 

During  the  summer  season  one  can  scarcely  pick  up  a  news- 
paper without  reading  accounts  of  wholesale  poisoning  by  ice 
cream.  Ice  cream  is  delicious  and  refreshing  in  heated  times, 
and,  when  properly  prepared  from  pure  ingredients,  is  no  more 
injurious  than  is  a  beefsteak  to  a  healthy  and  hungry  man  in 
mid-winter.  The  poisons  generated  in  ice  cream  may  be,  and 
are,  due  to  various  causes,  as  follows:  A  dirty  freezer,  with 
the  decomposed  particles  of  former  freezings  permeating  the 
pores,  the  metalic  salts  contained  in  milk  held  in  cans  and  trans- 
ported to  the  picnic  or  church  social  through  the  agitation  of 
transportation,  or  the  febrile  or  otherwise  unhealthy  condition 
of  the  milk  or  cream  itself.  Such  conditions  are  not  only  im- 
probable, but  next  to  impossible,  in  ice  cream  made  from  pure 
milk,  protected  from  the  influences  of  milk  thus  exposed  and 
enclosed  and  conveyed  in  cans;  and,  for  making  ice  cream;  there 
as  richness  and  less  danger  in  EWEU-/S  X.  L,.  MILK  than  in 
the  alleged  cream  of  the  ordinary  dairy;  because,  it  being  a  pure 

article,   and  protected  against  the   unadventitious   conditions 

• 

that  attend  milk  by  the  can  system,  the  danger  of  the  disinte- 
gration of  the  salts  of  the  metal  of  which  the  freezer  is  con- 
tained is  reduced  to  a  minimum,  and,  if  the  freezer  has  been  prop- 
erly scoured,  the  presence  of  metalic  salts  is  so  infinitesmal  that 
the  amount  contained  in  a  freezerfull  of  ice  cream  couldn't  dis- 
turb the  stomach  of  a  humming  bird. 


On  page  116  appears  the  advertisement  of  the  Jay  Eye  See 
lyiniment,  highly  recommended  for  cuts,  burns,  scalds  and 
sores  of  all  kinds.  They  claim  that  all  dairymen  should 
have  it. 

Also  on  same  page  the  advertisement  of  California  Fruit 
Salt,  made  from  sound  ripe  fruit,  a  remedy  for  headache,  indi- 
gestion, dyspepsia  and  constipation. 

(Continued  on  page 


Highest  Kates  of  Interest  at  People's  Homo  Sayings  Bank 


131 

Rice  and  Tapioca,  Pudding, 

One-half  cup  rice,  one-half  cup  tapioca,  three-quarters  cup  sugar,  three 
pints  EWELL'S  X.  L.DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK;  cinnamon  to  taste;  soak  the 
tapioca  in  a  cup  of  milk  three  hours;  wash  the  rice  in  several  waters  and  soak 
in  another  cup  as  long  as  you  do  the  tapioca;  sweeten  the  remaining  quart  of 
milk,  put  all  the  ingredients  together,  and  bake  two  hours  in  slow  oven;  eat 
cold. 

Rice  Flour  Pudding. 

Two  quarts  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  one-half  pound 
rice  flour,  one  cup  sugar,  six  eggs,  one  tablespoonful  butter,  one  small  tea- 
spoonful  nutmeg,  two  teaspoonfuls  vanilla,  one  lemon,  juice  of  the  whole  and 
half  the  grated  rind;  heat  the  milk  to  a  boil,  and  stir  in  the  rice  flour  wet  to  a 
smooth  paste  with  a  little  cold  milk;  boil  until  well  thickened,  stirring  all  the 
time;  take  from  the  fire,  and  while  still  hot  stir  in  the  butter,  the  yolks  beaten 
light  with  the  sugar,  the  lemon,  nutmeg  and  whites  of  three  eggs;  mix  well  and 
bake  in  a  buttered  dish  three-quarters  of  an  hour;  just  before  you  take  it  up 
draw  to  the  mouth  of  the  oven  and  cover  with  a  meringue  of  the  remaining 
whites,  beaten  stiff  with  two  tablespoons  of  powdered  sugar  and  flavored  with 
vanilla;  bake  until  the  meringue  begins  to  brown. 

German   Puff's. 

Three  cups  flour,  three  cups  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK, 

three  eggs,  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately  and  very  light,  three  teaspoon- 
fuls melted  butter,  one  saltspoonful  salt;  pour  in  nine  well- buttered 
cups  ot  same  size  as  that  used  for  measuring,  and  bake  to  a  fine  brown;  eat  as 
soon  as  done  with  sauce. 

Huckleberry  Pudding. 

One  pint  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  two  eggs,  one  quart 
flour,  one  gill  baker's  yeast,  one  saltspoonful  salt,  one  teaspoonful  soda,  nearly 
a  quart  of  berries,  well  dredged  with  flour;  make  a  batter  of  eggs,  milk,  flour, 
yeast,  salt  and  soda,  and  set  it  to  rise  in  warm  place  about  four  hours;  when 
you  are  ready  to  boil  it  stir  in  the  dredged  fruit  quickly  and  lightly;  boil  for 
two  hours. 

Fruit  Valise  Pudding. 

One  quart  flour,  one  tablespoon  lard,  same  of  butter,  one  teaspoon  soda 
dissolved  in  hot  water,  two  teaspoons  cream  tartar  sifted  through  flour,  one 
saltspoon  salt,  two  cups  SWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  one  quart 
berries,  chopped  apples,  sliced  peaches  or  other  fruit;  jam,  preserves,  canned 
fruit  or  marmalade  may  be  substituted  for  berries;  roll  out  the  crust  less  than 
half  an  inch  thick  into  an  oblong  sheet,  cover  thickly  with  the  fruit  and  sprinkle 
with  sugar;  begin  at  one  end  and  roll  up  closely  the  fruit  inside;  in  putting  this 
in  leave  a  narrow  margin  at  the  other  end  of  the  roll,  which  should  be  folded 
down  closely;  pinch  the  edges  of  the  folded  roll  together  to  prevent  escape  of 
fruit,  and  baste  up  in  a  bag  the  same  size  and  shape  of  "valise;"  flour  the  bag 
well  before  putting  in  the  pudding;  boil  an  hour  and  a  half. 

Suet  Dumplings. 

Two  cups  fine  breadcrumbs  soaked  in  a  little  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY 
BOTTLED  MILK,  one  cup  beef  suet  powdered,  four  eggs,  whites  and  yolks 
separated  and  beaten  very  light,  one  tablespoon  sugar,  one  teaspoon  cream 
tartar  in  flour,  one.  half  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water,  one  teaspoon  salt, 
enough  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK  to  mix  into  stiff  paste; 
mix  into  large  balls  with  floured  hands;  put  in  dumpling  cloths;  boil  three- 
-quarters of  an  hour. 

USE   EWELX/S  X.   JL,.   DAIRY   BOTTLED  H1IL.K, 

PUREST  AND   BEST   IN   THE   WORLD. 


132 


JULIUS  JACOBS. 
GEO.  EASTON. 
JAS.  N.  BROWN. 
E.  P.  FARNSWOR1 


PACIFIC    DEPARTMENT 

Springfield  of  Mass..  .  .  . Assets,  January  1, 1890 

Glens  Falls  of  N.  Y " 

New  Hampshire  of  N.  H.     " 

German  of  Freeport "  " 

Merchants  of  Newark         "  "  « 

United  States  of  N.  Y..     " 
Concordia  of  Wisconsin .     "  "  " 

Union  of  Penn  "  "  " 

Citizens  of  St.  Louis. ..." 

Buffalo- Germ  an " 

Newark  Ins.  Co .  .  "  "  " 


OF 

,  $3,410,983  00 

1,785,404  00 

1,588,817  00 

2,452,621  00 

1,554,658  00 

651,403  00 

581,386  00 

796,542  00 

462,977  00 

1,374,766  00 

730,039  00 


LOCAL,    AGENTS    FOR 

Ins.  Co.  of  North  Am..  .Assets,  January  1,  1890,  $8,731,251  00 
Imperial  of  London  ....      «  "  «  10,044,63600 

Prussian  Nat'l  of  Stettin     "  "  "  3,204,965  00 


JACOBS 


AOENTS, 

312  PINE  STREET,      -      -      San  Francisco,  Cal. 


133 

Gooseberry  Pudding1. 

One  pint  ripe  gooseberries,  six  or  eight  slices  toasted  stale  bread,  one  cup 
of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  one-half  cup  sugar,  one  table- 
spoon melted  butter;  stew  gooseberries  ten  minutes  very  slowly;  cut  slices  of 
bread  to  fit  pudding  dish,  toast  to  a  light  brown,  dip  each  slice  while  hot  in 
milk  and  spread  with  melted  butter;  cover  the  bottom  of  the  dish  with  them; 
put  next  a  layer  of  gooseberries,  sprinkled  thickly  with  sugar,  more  toast, 
more  berries,  and  so  on;  cover  closely  and  steam  in  moderate  oven  twenty-five 
minutes. 

Newark  Pudding1. 

One  cup  fine  bread  crumbs  soaked  in  a  pint  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY 
BOTTLED  MILK,  one  quart  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK, 
five  eggs,  two  tablespoons  rice  flour,  one-half  pound  raisins  seeded,  cut  in  two 
and  dredged  with  flour,  vanilla  or  bitter  almond  extract,  two  tablespoons 
melted  butter  and  half  teaspoonful  soda;  beat  the  yolks  light,  add  soaked 
bread  crumbs  and  milk,  stir  to  a  smooth  batter  and  put  in  the  rice  flour,  wet 
up  first  with  cold  milk;  the  reserved  pint  of  milk,  the  seasoning,  butter,  the 
fruit,  lastly  the  whites  whipped  stiff;  bake  an  hour  in  a  buttered  mould;  turn 
out  and  pour  sauce  over  it,  serving  hard  sauce  also  with  it. 

Dot's  Dumplings. 

One  quart  prepared  flour,  two  and  one  half  tablespoons  lard  and  butter 
mixed,  two  cups  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  or  enough  to 
make  soft  dough:  roll  out  quarter  of  an  inch  thick;  cut  into  oblong  pieces, 
rounded  at  corners;  put  a  great  spoonful  of  Damson  preserves  in  the  middle 
and  roll  into  a  dumpling,  bake  three-quarters  of  an  hour,  brush  over  with 
beaten  egg  while  hot,  set  back  in  the  oven  three  minutes  to  glaze;  eat  hot  with 
brandy  sauce. 

EVV  ELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK  is  sent  to  all  parts  of  the  city, 
-and  is  welcomed  by  all. 

Berry  Pndding. 

One  pint  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  two  eggs,  one  salt- 
spoon  salt,  one-quarter  teaspoon  soda"  dissolved  in  hot  water;  one-half  teaspoon 
cream  tartar  sifted  through  a  cup  of  flour  and  added  to  enough  flour  to  make 
-a  thick  batter,  one  pint  blackberries,  raspberries,  currants,  well  dredged  with 
flour,  stirred  in  at  the  last. 

Orange  Marmalade  Pudding. 

One  cup  fine  bread  crumbs,  one-half  cup  sugar,  one  cup  EWELL'S  X.  L. 
DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  four  eggs,  two  teaspoons  butter,  one  cup  orange 
marmalade;  rub  the  butter  and  sugar  together,  add  yolks  well  beaten,  the 
milk,  bread  crumbs,  and  the  whites  whipped  to  a  froth;  put  a  layer  of  this  in 
the  bottom  of  a  well-buttered  mould,  spread  thickly  with  marmalade,  then  an- 
other layer  of  the  mixture, and  so  on  until  the  mould  is  full, having  the  custard 
on  top;  bake  in  moderate  oven  about  an  hour. 

Macaroni  Pudding. 

One  cup  macaroni  broken  into  inch  lengths,  one  quart  EWELL'S  X.  L. 
DAIHY  BOTTLED  MILK,  four  eggs,  half  a  lemon,  juice  and  grated  peel,  two 
tablespoons  melted  butter,  three-quarters  cup  sugar;  simmer  the  macaroni  in 
half  the  milk  until  tender;  while  hot,  stir  in  the  butter,  the  yolks,  well  beaten 
up  with  the  sugar,  lastly  the  whipped  whites  and  lemon.  Bake  about  half  an 
Jiour. 

'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  IfHLK. 

PUREST  AND  BEST  IN  THE  WORLD. 


134 

POWDERED  MILK. 


Invention    of    a    S^viss    Savant    Wnicht 
Reverses  Known.  Natural 


The  idea  of  reducing  cow's  milk  to  a  dry  powder,  says  the 
American  Dairyman,  and  shipping  it  in  this  condition  all  over 
the  world,  seems  to  have  first  originated  with  Dr.  Krueger, 
a  Swiss  savant,  and  under  his  management  a  company  was 
organized  to  make  milk  powder  in  Switzerland. 

It  is  claimed  that  milk  in  this  form  is  much  better  than 
canned  or  condensed  milk  for  one  reason — it  has  no  sugar  in 
it.  It  is  well  known  that  condensed  milk  cannot  be  used  in 
many  departments  of  cooking  on  account  of  this  sugar,  and  this 
also  makes  it  objectionable  for  use  with  very  young  children, 
not  that  sugar  itself  is  injurious  to  children,  for  it  is  always  put 
into  their  milk,  we  believe,  but  it  is  better  that  this  sugar  be 
put  in  fresh  at  the  time  of  preparing  milk  for  the  child. 

How  far  this  powdered  milk  will  answer  these  objects  re- 
mains to  be  seen.  One  thing  is  certain,  the  powder  would  be 
much  better  for  transportation  and  more  handy  to  have  in  the 
house  than  either  plain  or  condensed  milk,  provided  it  is  a 
success. 

It  looks  somewhat  dubious  as  a  complete  substitute  for  plain; 
milk,  not  only  on  account  of  necessary  expense,  but  we  do  not 
find  any  kind  of  food  capable  of  being  thoroughly  dried  and 
afterward  made  over  with  water  so  as  to  closely  resemble  the 
original  article,  and  we  never  expect  to  see  it  done  with  cow's 
milk. 

Nature  has  a  way  of  mingling  these  things  that  thus  far  maa 
has  not  been  able  to  closely  imitate. 

The  above  from  a  recent  issue  of  the  Call  shows  how  utterly 
hopeless  is  the  idea  of  ever  producing  any  substitute  for  pure 
rich  cow's  milk,  such  as  is  produced  by  E WELL'S  X.  L. 
DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK  CO.,  bottled  warm  from  the  cow. 

(Conhnued  on  page  138.} 
See  the  Battle  of  Gettysburg  at  Market  and  Tenth  JS  t<*. 


135 

Neapolitan  Pudding. 

One  large  cup  fine  bread  crumbs  soaked  in  E WELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOT- 
TLED MILK,  three-quarters  cup  sugar,  one  lemon,  juice  and  grated  rind,  six 
eggs»  one-half  cup  stale  sponge  cake,  one-half  pound  macaroons,  almond,  one- 
half  cup  jelly  or  jam  and  one  small  tumbler  of  sherry  wine,  one-half  cup 
E  WELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK  poured  on  the  bread  crumbs,  one 
tablespoon  melted  butter;  rub  the  butter  and  sugar  together,  put  the  beaten 
yolks  in  next,  then  the  soaked  bread  crumbs,  the  lemon,  juice  and  rind,  and 
beat  to  a  smooth  light  paste  before  adding  the  whites;  butter  your  mould  very 
well  and  put  in  the  bottom  a  light  layer  of  bread  crumbs;  upon  this  one  of 
macaroons,  laid  evenly  and  closely  together;  wet  this  with  wine  and  cover 
with  a  layer  of  the  mixture;  then  with  slices  of  sponge  cake,  spread  thickly 
with  jelly;  next  macaroons,  wet  with  wine,  more  custard,  sponge  cake  and 
elly,and  so  on  until  the  mould  is  full,putting  custard  on  top;  cover  closely  and 
steam  in  the  oven  three-quarters  of  an  hour,  then  remove  cover  to  brown  on 
top;  serve  with  sauce  made  of  currant  jelly  warmed  and  beaten  up  with  two 
tablespoons  melted  butter  and  a  glass  of  pale  sherry. 

Cup  Puddings. 

Four  eggs,  the  weight  of  the  eggs  in  sugar  and  flour,  half  their  weight  in 
butter,  two  tablespoons  E  WELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  one-quar- 
ter teaspoonful  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water;  rub  the  sugar  and  butter  together, 
beat  the  yolks  light  and  then  add  the  milk  and  soda,  lastly  the  flour  and  beaten 
whites  alternately;  fill  six  small  cups,  well  buttered,  and  bake  twenty  minutes, 
or  until  a  nice  brown;  eat  warm. 

SLeiuoii  Pudding. 

One  cup  sugar,  four  eggs,  two  tablespoons  corn  starch,  two  lemons,  juice 
of  both  and  rind  of  one,  one  pint  SWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK, 
one  tablespoonful  butter;  heat  the  milk  to  boiling  and  stir  in  the  corn  starch, 
wet  with  a  few-spoonfuls  of  cold  water;  boil  five  minutes,  stirring  constantly; 
while  hot,  mix  in  the  butter,  and  set  it  away  to  cool;  beat  the  yolks  light  and 
add  the  sugar,  mixing  very  thoroughly  before  putting  in  the  lemon  juice  and 
rind;  beat  this  to  a  stiff  cream,  and  add  gradually  the  corn  starch  milk  when 
the  latter  is  cold;  stir  all  smooth,  put  in  buttered  dish  and  bake. 

f,emoii  Meringue  Pudding. 

One  quart  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  two  cups  bread 
crumbs,  four  eggs,  one  cup  butter,  one  cup  white  sugar,  one  large  lemon,  juice 
and  half  the  rind  grated;  soak  the  bread  in  the  milk;  add  the  beaten  yolks, 
with  the  butter  and  sugar  rubbed  to  a  cream,  also  the  lemon;  bake  in  a  but- 
tered dish  until  firm  and  slightly  brown;  draw  to  the  door  of  the  oven  and 
cover  with  a  meringue  of  the  whites  whipped  to  a  froth  with  three  tablespoons 
of  powdered  sugar  and  a  little  lemon  juice;  brown  very  slightly;  sift  powdered 
sugar  over  it  and  eat  cold. 

Cocoanut  Pudding. 

One-half  cup  grated  cocoanut,  one-half  cup  stale  sponge  cake  grated  fine, 
one  cup  sugar,  one  large  cup  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  six 
eggs,  two  teaspoons  vanilla;  cream  the  butter  and  sugar  and  add  beaten  yolks; 
when  well  mixed,  put  in  cocoanut,  stir  well,  add  milk,  cake  crumbs,  flavoring, 
lastly  whites  of  three  eggs;  whip  the  other  whites  stiff  with  three  tablespoons 
powdered  sugar;  flavor  with  vanilla,  spread  over  top  of  pudding  and  brown  in 
oven;  bake  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 

USE   THE  BEST   OF   EVERYTIHI*O, 

THE  BEST  IS  THE  CHEAPEST. 
f 


136 


W.    F.    MCALLISTER,   M.    D.  U.  S.  Quarantine  Inspector. 

Office,  321  Slitter  St.,  Ex.  U.  S.  Commissioner  of  Immigration, 

RESIDENCE,  PALACE  HOTEL.  Port  of  San  Francisco. 


SAN  FRANCISCO,  Feb.  6th,  1890. 

For  a  number  of  years  I  have  used  SWELL'S 
X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK.  For  purity 
and  richness  it  is  unexcelled.  I  invariably  pre- 
scribe it  for  rny  patients  when  a  milk  diet  is 

t 

required. 

»  w.  F.  MCALLISTER,  M.  D. 


137 

Cabinet   Pudding. 

One-half  pound  flour,  one-quarter  pound  butter,  five  eggs,  one  and  one- 
half  pounds  sugar,  one-half  pound  raisins,  seeded  and  cut  in  three  pieces  each, 
one-quarter  pound  currants,  one-half  cup  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED 
CREAM,  one-half  lemon,  juice  and  rind  grated;  cream  the  butter  and  sugar, 
add  beaten  yolks,  then  the  milk  and  flour,  then  the  whites,  last  stir  in  fruit, 
turn  into  buttered  mould;  boil  two  hours  and  a  half. 

Tomato   Pudding. 

Pour  boiling  water  on  tomatoes,  remove  the  skin;  put  in  the  bottom  of  the 
dish  some  bread  crumbs,  then  slice  the  tomatoes  on  them;  season  with  sugar, 
butter,  pepper  and  salt;  add  another  layer  of  bread  crumbs,  then  of  sliced 
tomatoes  and  more  seasoning;  beat  two  eggs,  mix  with  them  half  a  cup  of 
EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  and  pour  over  the  crumbs  and 
tomatoes;  bake  twenty  minutes  in  a  quick  oven. 

Rice  and  Apple  Pudding. 

Steam  until  tender  one  cup  of  rice  in  two  cups  of  water;  have  ready  in 
your  pudding  dish  one  quart  of  pared  and  quartered  apples,  sprinkled  with 
half  a  cup  of  sugar;  pour  over  the  rice  half  a  cup  of  EWELL'S  X.  L. 
DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  a  sprinkle  of  cinnamon. 


Custards,  Creams,  Ices,  Etc, 


Charlotte  Russe. 

Make  a  sponge  cake;  beat  one  pint  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOT- 
TLED CREAM  and  the  whites  of  three  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth;  sweeten  the  cream 
to  taste,  flavor  with  almond,  and  mix  the  cream  and  egg  froth;  blanch  and 
split  one  dozen  almonds  and  place  them  on  the  cake;  then  pour  over  the  cake 
the  cream  and  froth  of  eggs. 

Eldorado  Cream. 

One  quart  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  CREAM,  yolks  of  four 
eggs,  one-half  ounce  of  gelatine,  one  small  cup  sugar,  two  teaspoons  vanilla; 
soak  the  gelatine  in  enough  cold  water  to  cover  it  for  one  hour;  drain  and  stir 
into  a  pint  of  the  cream  made  boiling  hot;  beat  the  yolks  smooth  with  the 
sugar  and  add  the  boiling  mixture,  beaten  in  a  little  at  a  time,  heat  until  it 
begins  to  thicken,  but  not  boil;  remove  it  from  the  fire,  flavor  while  it  is  hot, 
stir  in  the  other  pint  of  cream  whipped  to  a  froth,  beat  this  in  slowly  into  the 
custard  until  it  is  of  the  consistency  of  sponge  cake  batter;  pour  into  the  mould 
to  cool. 

Chocolate  Cream. 

Soak  half  a  box  of  gelatine  in  half  a  cup  of  warm  water  one  hour;  add  to 
the  same  one-half  a  cup  of  grated  chocolate,  one-half  a  pound  of  white  sugar, 
and  one  pint  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK;  stir  all  together 
and  boil  five  minutes  by  placing  the  vessel  in  another  of  boiling  water,  then 
add  half  a  pint  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  CREAM;  boil  one 
minute;  flavor  with  vanilla  and  pour  into  mould  to  cool. 

Tapioca   Jelly. 

One  cup  tapioca,  soaked  in  three  cups  cold  water  four  hours,  set  in  boiling 
water  half  an  hour  until  it  is  like  jelly,  three  lemons  grated,  and  stir  fre- 
quently; serve  with  sugar  and  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK. 


138 

FEED  VS.  BREED. 


It  is  a  singular  fact  that  notwithstanding  Mr.  Ewell's  expe- 
rience years  ago  taught  him  that  feed,  and  the  manner  of  pre- 
paring it,  was  of  more  importance  than  fancy  breeds  of  cattle, 
the  following  from  the  Breeder  and  Sportsman  of  this  city  is  the 
first  acknowledgment  of  this  important  point  we  have  noticed 
by  any  prominent  authority  : 

'  '  In  breeding  dairy  stock,  individual  merit  and  the  posses- 
sion of  desirable  qualities  are  more  to  be  considered  than  the 
breed,  which  is  valuable  only  as  it  indicates  the  probable 
possession  of  these  qualities,  with  the  power  to  transmit  them. 
The  breed  or  the  individual  animal  that  possesses  the  most  de- 
sirable points  and  gives  the  best  return,  in  milk,  beef  or  work, 
is  the  one  to  be  desired.  In  breeding  for  beef,  not  only  quan- 
tity but  quality  should  be  considered.  If  for  work,  both  weight 
and  endurance,  coupled  with  activity,  should  be  aimed  at. 
The  dairy  animal  should  be  bred  more  for  quality  than  lor 
quantity,  more  for  value  of  the  returns  at  the  pail  than  for  size  . 
Too  many  Holsteins  have  been  reared  because  they  were  Hoi- 
steins,  and  too  many  Jerseys  because  they  were  Jerseys,  and  so 
on.  The  small  animal  with  the  rich  mess  of  milk  needs  to  be 
bred  up  and  have  the  flow  increased.  The  large  animal  with 
the  large  yield  of  only  fairly  good  milk  needs  to  be  bred  for  the 
improvement  of  the  quality  of  the  milk.  This  can  be  done  by 
selecting  and  breeding  from  the  animals  giving  the  richest 
milk.  We  want  more  lean  meat  in  our  hogs,  which  means 
more  nitrogenous  food  and  exercise.  For  mutton  sheep  we 
want  the  large  carcass  of  lean  and  fat  well  mixed  and  tender, 
and  for  wool  we  want  not  only  weight  but  fine  and  even  fibre, 
strong  and  elastic.  In  short,  we  must  always  have  a  purpose 
in  view  in  breeding,  and  subordinate  everything  else  to  that 
purpose. 

'  '  It  will  generally  be  observed  that  big  feed  and  big  yield  go 
together.  There  is  nothing  unphilosophical  about  this.  So 

(Continued  on  page 


Deposit  Your  Savings  with  Peoples'  Home  Savings  Bank. 


139 

S\van's-I>own  Cream. 

Whip  stiff  a  pint  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  CREAM,  then, 
beat  to  a  froth  the  whites  of  three  eggs,  sweeten  with  a  cup  of  sugar,  and  flavor 
with  almond;  beat  all  together,  put  in  a  glass  dish  and  set  in  a  bowl  of  hacked 
ice  to  send  to  the  table. 

Italian  Cream. 

Two  sheets  of  isinglass  in  a  cup  of  cold  water,  to  be  boiled  down  to  three- 
fourths  of  a  cup;  take  a  pint  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  CREAM, 
sweeten  with  white  sugar  to  the  taste,  and  add  a  good-sized  wineglass  of  sherry 
wine;  stir  well;  when  the  isinglass  is  tepid  stir  in  the  mixture  and  put  in  a 
mold. 

Spanish  Cream. 

Dissolve  half  a  box  of  gelatine  in  half  a  pint  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIR¥ 
BOTTLED  MILK,  beat  six  eggs  very  light,  mix  the  yolks  with  the  boiling 
milk,  add  the  gelatine;  sweeten  and  flavor  with  vanilla;  pour  the  whites  of  the 
eggs,  well  beaten,  on  top. 

Orange  Gelatine. 

Take  six  oranges,  pare  them,  cut  in  thin  slices,  take  out  the  seeds,  lay  in 
a  dish;  dissolve  half  a  box  of  gelatine  in  half  a  pint  of  cold  water,  then  add  to 
it,  after  it  is-  all  dissolved,  one  pint  of  boiling  water,  one  cup  of  white  sugar; 
strain  through  a  sieve  on  to  the  orange;  set  away  to  cool  for  the  next  day;  serve 
with  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  CREAM  and  sugar;  cut  the  oranges 
in  small  pieces. 

English  lilanc  Mange. 

Four  tablespoonfuls  of  corn  starch  to  one  quart  of  EWELL'S  X.  L. 
DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  two  eggs;  dissolve  the  corn  starch  in  some  of  the 
milk;  put  into  the  remainder  of  the  milk  four  ounces  of  sugar,  a  little  salt,  one 
teaspoonful  of  lemon,  and  heat  to  near  boiling,  then  add  the  mixed  corn  starch 
and  boil  four  minutes,  and  pour  into  a  mould  and  keep  till  cold;  when  turned 
out,  pour  around  it  any  kind  of  stewed  fruits. 

Tapioca  Cream. 

One  cup  tapioca,  soaked  over  night  in  cold  water;  boil  one  quart  of 
EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK  in  a  pail  set  in  hot  water;  beat 
the  yolks  of  three  eggs,  one  cup  sugar  and  a  little  salt  into  the  tapioca,  and 
stir  into  the  milk  and  boil  until  it  thickens;  turn  it  into  a  dish  and  stir  into  it 
the  whites  of  three  eggs  and  a  little  flavoring;  set  it  away  to  cool,  and  then  it 
is  ready  for  the  table. 

Chocolate  Blanc  Mange. 

One  quart  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK  (take  a  cupful 
from  the  quart  and  soak  one  ounce  of  gelatine  in  it  for  an  hour),  four  heaping 
tablespoonfuls  of  grated  chocolate  rubbed  up  with  a  little  milk,  three  eggs,  the 
whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately,  a  cupful  of  sugar  and  a  tablespoonful  of 
vanilla;  heat  the  milk  to  boiling,  then  pour  in  the  gelatine  and  the  milk,  and 
stir  it  until  it  is  dissolved;  add  the  sugar  to  the  beaten  yolks,  and  stir  till  it  is 
smooth;  beat  the  chocolate  into  this,  and  stir  in  a  spoonful  at  a  time  of  the 
scalding  milk  upon  the  mixture;  return  to  the  inner  saucepan  and  heat  gently 
until  it  almost  boils,  remove  from  the  fire  and  turn  into  a  bowl,  then  beat  in 
quickly  the  beaten  whites,then  pour  into  the  moulds, which  must  be  wet  in  cold 
water,  and  set  away  to  cool. 

USE   EWEUL'S   X.    I,.   DAIRY   1M>TT1,E1> 

PUREST   AND   BEST   IN   THE    WORLD. 


140 


I.  L.  DBIBT  BOTTLED  pi  COJBP'T 


FURNISHES    THE 


PUREST  AND  BEST  MILK  AND  CREAM 

I3ST     THE      T7?~  O  IR,  ULi  3D  . 


JL  o 


MILK,  io  CENTS  PER  QUART  BOTTLE. 

CREAM,  40  CENTS  PER  QUART  BOTTLE. 

CHARLOTTE  RUSSE  CREAM,  60  CTS.  PER  QUART  BOTTLE. 

Two  -- 


MAIN     OFFICE: 


21st  and  FOItSOJVI   STREETS,  Sfljl 

DAIRY,    SAN   MATEO  COUNTY. 

^Telephone  61O9.  F.  O.   Box    1129. 

L.    J.    EWELL, 

2460  FOLSOM  STEEET. 


141 

Ice  Cream,  No.  1. 

Two  quarts  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  three  table- 
spoons  arrowroot,  two  teacups  fine  sugar;  after  it  has  boiled,  pour  it  upon  the 
whites  of  eight  eggs,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth. 

Ice  Cream,  No.  2. 

One  quart  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,^four  eggs,  half 
a  pound  of  sugar,  one  tablespoon  corn  starch;  mix  the  starch  with  a  little  milk, 
boil  the  milk,  and  while  boiling  stir  in  the  starch,  eggs  and  sugar,  well  beaten 
together;  cool  before  freezing. 

Ice  Cream,  No.  3. 

.  Scald  two  quarts  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  wet  four 
tablespoons  corn  starch  with  cold  milk,  put  into  the  scalding  milk  with  four 
cups  sugar,  and  boil  until  the  taste  of  the  corn  starch  is  quite  gone;  when  quite 
cold,  add  one  quart  of  EWELL'S  X  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  CREAM  beaten  to 
a  stiff  froth,  flavor  to  taste  and  freeze. 

Ice  Cream,  No.  4. 

To  each  quart  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK  use  five  eggs 
and  one-half  pound  sugar;  beat  the  eggs  and  sugar  together;  after  boiling  the 
milk  pour  it  over  the  sugar  and  eggs,  beating  it  all  at  the  same  time,  then  put 
it  on  the  fire  again,  and  as  soon  as  it  thickens  take  off  and  strain  into  the 
freezer  to  cool;  when  cold,  add  a  pint  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED 
CREAM  and  flavor  to  taste. 

Orange  Ice  Cream. 

To  one  gallon  of  cream  squeeze  in  the  juice  of  five  oranges;  rub  lumps  of 
sugar  on  the  orange  peels  and  put  in  the  cream;  sweeten  and  freeze. 

Peach  Ice  Cream. 

Take  very  soft  ripe  peaches,  to  each  quart  after  being  mashed  add  a  pintj 
and  a  half  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  CREAM,  with  half  an 
ounce  of  gelatine  dissolved  and  mixed  in;  sweeten  to  taste  and  freeze. 

Fruit  Ice  Cream. 

Half  a  gallon  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  one  ounce 
of  gelatine  dissolved  in  cold  milk  and  poured  in,  four  eggs  and  four  and  a  half 
cups  sugar;  pour  in  the  freezer;  as  soon  as  it  begins  to  freeze  add  a  pound  of 
raisins,  one  pint  strawberry  preserves,  one  pound  chopped  almonds,  one  grated 
cocoanut,  one  pound  currants;  freeze. 

Tea  Ice  Cream. 

Pour  over  five  tablespoons  of  Old'Hyson  Tea  a  pint  of  EWELL'S  X.  L. 
DAIRY  BOTTLED  CREAM;  scald  in  a  custard  kettle;  remove  from  the  fire, 
and  let  stand  five  minutes;  strain  it  into  a  pint  of  cream,  put  on  to  scald  again, 
and  when  hot  mix  with  four  eggs  and  ^three-fourths^pound  sugar,  well  beaten, 
together;  let  cool  and  freeze. 

Borax  is  infinitely  better  for  washing  clothes  than  soda,  for  it  injures 
nothing,  and  softens,  whitens  and  cleanses  thoroughly. 

i;\v  i;i.i/s  x.  i,  DAIRY  im-r  rr i:i>  ui i.u. 

PUREST  AND  BEST  IN  THE  WORLD. 


142 

long  as  the  yield  increases  with  increase  of  feed,  it  pays,  no 
matter  how  much  may  be  fed,  provided  the  cow's  system  will 
stand  it  and  convert  the  extra  feed  into  milk  and  butter.  It 
becomes  thus  far  a  mere  question  of  converting  raw  material 
into  manufactured  product.  A  cow  cannot  make  something 
out  of  nothing,  and  the  point  to  be  determined  is  only  how 
much  may  be  fed  with  a  paying  profit.  In  some  of  the  re- 
markable tests  it  would  not  be  strange  if  the  feed  should  be 
pushed  beyond  the  point  of  profit,  nor  if  the  cow  should  be  in- 
jured by  forcing  her  beyond  her  normal  capacity.  The  Hoi- 
stein- Friesian  Register  calls  attention  to  the  feed  of  the  Jersey 
cow  Cromwell  Maid,  when  from  July  2ist  to  July  27,  1887,  she 
averaged  19^  quarts  of  milk  per  day,  which  made  29  pounds 
and  1 2  ounces  of  butter.  Her  daily  grain  feed  was  6  quarts  of 
corn  meal,  7  quarts  oat  meal,  2  quarts  of  pea  meal,  i  quart  of 
oil  meal  and  6  quarts  of  middlings.  This  is  figured  out  to  be 
34.87  pounds  of  grain  feed  daily,  which  is  certainly  very  high 
for  a  goo-pound  cow.  But  how  could  she  be  expected  to  pro- 
duce such  a  prodigious  result  without  it  ?  Comparison  is  made 
with  the  feed  of  the  Holstein-Friesian  cow  De  Kol  2d,  which 
made  33  pounds  and  6  ounces  of  butter  in  7  days.  The  daily 
ration  was  18  pounds  of  hominy  chop,  7}^  pounds  of  wheat 
bran  and  3^  pounds  of  cotton  seed  meal — a  total  of  29  pounds 
of  grain.  She  weighed  1500  pounds,  and  averaged  a  pound  of 
butter  for  6^>  ounces  of  grain  feed,  while  the  Jersey  consumed 
S  7-32  ounces  of  grain  feed  for  a  pound  of  butter.  Thus  it  ap- 
pears that  a  pound  of  Jersey  butter  costs  more  grain  feed  than 
a  pound  of  Holstein-Friesian  butter,  the  smaller  animal  eating 
the  more.  We  do  not  question  the  fairness  of  this  statement, 
as  far  as  it  goes  ;  but  unfortunately  there  is  a  big  omission. 
Only  the  grain  feed  is  given.  How  much  grass,  hay,  or  other 
food  did  each  animal  consume  ?  With  this  omission,  the  com- 
parison is  incomplete. ' ' 

And  yet  no  large  dealers  have  so  far  adopted  his  system  of 
cooking  all  his  grains.  As  has  been  mentioned  in  former  arti- 
cles in  this  book,  cooking  feed  for  cows  enables  him  to  use  a 
greater  variety  of  food  than  can  be  fed  by  simply  grinding  and 
feeding  it  moistened.  For  instance,  he  uses  corn,  wheat, 
(Continued  on  page  146.') 

Pacific  16a  11  k  Sells  I>rafits  on  every  Important  City. 


143 

Chocolate  Icing:. 

Two  and  a  half  ounces  grated  chocolate,  one  ounce  brown  sugar,  three 
tablespoons  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  one  teaspoonful 
prepared  gum  arable;  boil  briskly  ten  minutes,  and  add  one  teaspoonful  vanilla. 

EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK  Co.,  corner  Twenty-first  and 
Folsom  streets. 

Custard. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  ten  eggs,  add  one  quart  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY 
BOTTLED  MILK,  two  thirds  cup  sugar;  flavor  to  suit  taste;  pour  into  cups 
and  bake  in  moderately  hot  oven. 

Custard.  i\o.  2. 

Beat  five  eggs  with  two-thirds  cup  of  white  sugar;  add  a  quart  of 
EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK;  flavor  to  suit  taste,  stir  together, 
pour  into  cups  and  bake. 

Boiled  Custard. 

Two  tables  poonfuls  of  corn  starch  to  a  cup  and  two -thirds  of  EWELL'S 
X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK;  mix  the  corn  starch  with  a  small  quantity  of 
the  milk,  flavor  to  taste,  beat  up  two  eggs,  heat  the  remainder  of  the  milk  to 
near  boiling,  add  mixed  corn  starch,  the  eggs,  three  and  a  half  tablespoons 
sugar,  a  little  butter  and  salt;  boil  two  minutes,  stirring  briskly. 

floating  Island. 

One  quart  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  five  eggs,  yolks 
and  whites  beaten  separately,  four  and  a  half  tablespoonfuls  sugar,  two  tea- 
spoonfuls  vanilla,  one-half  cupful  of  currant  and  raspberry  jelly;  heat  the  milk 
to  scalding;  beat  the  yolks,  stir  into  them  the  sugar,  pour  upon  them  gradually 
a  cupful  of  hot  water;  return  to  fire  and  boil  until  it  thickens;  when  cool,  flavor 
and  put  in  glass  dish;  heap  upon  the  top  meringue  of  whites  into  which  you 
have  beaten  jelly,  a  teaspoonful  at  a  time. 

Corn   Starch  Meringues. 

Three  pints  .of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  five  eggs, 
three  tablespoons  corn  starch;  put  the  milk  on  to  boil,  reserving  a  little  cold  to 
wet  the  corn  starch  with;  beat  the  yolks  and  a  large  cup  sugar  together,  and 
when  milk  boils  stir  in  corn  starch  and  eggs;  let  it  boil  a  few  minutes,  then  pour 
it  into  a  dish;  flavor  with  vanilla;  beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  a  table- 
spoon sugar,  spread  it  on  top  and  brown  in  oven. 

Strawberry  Souffle. 

Fill  a  glass  dish  with  strawberries,  leaving  a  hole  in  the  center;  make  a 
custard  with  a  pint  and  a  half  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK, 
yolks  of  three  eggs,  two  tablespoons  sugar;  thicken  the  custard  over  the  fire, 
stir  constantly;  when  cold,  pour  in  the  center  of  the  dish,  sprinkle  over  the 
berries;  beat  the  whites  of  two  eggs  to  a  froth  and  pour  over  the  whole. 

Orange  Custard. 

Five  eggs,  beaten  with  two  cups  of  sugar,  juice  of  two  oranges,  rind  of 
one  orange,  two  cups  and  a  half  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED 
MILK;  fill  the  cups  and  bake  half  an  hour. 

If  you  take  flannels  out  of  hot  water 'and  hang  them  in  freezing  air  it  will 
shrink  them. 

use:  i:\v i:i,i/s  \.  •,.  •>,% i B& v  ii<>prvm-:i> 

PUREST  AND  BEST  IN  THE  WORLD. 


144 


IS  PI'S  FIRST  LOW 


And  is  Equally  True  in   the  Arrangement  of    Your 

Home   as  in  Music. 

The  effects  of  elegant  carpets  together  with  fine  furniture  is 
frequently  spoiled  by  leaving  the  walls  white. 

Have  your  homes  made  pleasant  by  covering  the  walls  in  a 
tasteful  and  artistic  manner  with  wall  paper 

THAT  HARMONIZES  WITH  YOUR  CARPETS  AND  FURNITURE. 


JAMES  DUFFY  &  CO., 

821  Market  St.  (Flood  Building,  San  Francisco 

IMPORTERS  OF  AND  DEALERS  IN 

LINCRUSTA,  JAPANESE  AND  PAPER  HANGINGS  of 

the  Latest  Designs,  CARPETS,  LINOLEUM, 

RUGS,  Etc.,  in  Endless  Variety. 


PAPER  HANGING  and  FRESCOING 

DONE    IN    THE    LATEST    STYLE. 


ALL    WORK     GUARANTEED. 

ESTIMATES    CHEERFULLY    GIVEN. 

GIVE    US    A    CALL. 


145 

13 well's  Ice  Cream,  Hfo.  1. 

One  quart  milk,  one  quart  cream;  sweeten  and  flavor  to  taste;  freeze, 

Kwell's  Ice  Cream,  No.  3. 
Two  quarts  milk,  one  quart  cream;  sweeten  and  flavor  to  taste;  freeze. 

Ewell's  Ice  Cream,  Ufo.  3. 

Use  three  quarts  of  milk  to  one  of  cream;  sweeten  and   flavor  to  taste; 
freeze. 

In  fact,  EWELL'S   X.    L.    DAIRY   BOTTLED   MILK,  sweetened  and 
flavored  to  taste,  makes  very  fair  ice  cream. 


Candy. 


Molasses  Candy. 

Take  one  pint  of  granulated  sugar,  one  pint  of  New  Orleans  molasses; 
place  over  a  slow  fire  and  boil,  stirring  all  the  time  to  prevent  burning;  when 
nearly  done,  add  butter  the  size  of  an  egg;  when  a  little  dropped  in  cold  water 
becomes  hard  and  snaps,  it  is  sufficiently  boiled;  take  from  the  fire,  add  one 
saltspooii  of  soda,  rubbed  fine,  stir  quickly  to  mix,  and  pour  on  large  buttered 
platters  to  cool;  let  it  run  down  flat;  as  it  cools  keep  turning  in  the  outer  edges 
toward  the  center,  so  that  the  whole  may  cool  evenly;  when  cool  enough  to 
handle  without  burning  the  hands,  pull  it  over  a  hook  or  in  the  hands,  as  fast 
as  possible;  the  more  the  candy  is  worked  the  lighter  it  will  be. 

Molasses  Candy. 

One  cup  of  New  Orleans  molasses,  two  cups  of  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  of 
vinegar,  a  little  butter;  boil  until  brittle  if  dropped  in  cold  water;  pour  on  but- 
tered platters  to  cool,  and  pull. 

Molasses  Candy  Taffy. 

Put  a  pint  of  New  Orleans  molasses  in  a  stew  pan  over  a  slow  fire  to  boil; 
stir  it  to  prevent  its  boiling  over;  take  it  off  when  it  has  boiled  half  an  hour, 
try  it  by  taking  some  in  a  saucer;  when  cold,  if  it  is  brittle  it  is  done;  flavor 
with  lemon,  sassafras  or  vanilla  and  pour  it  quarter  of  an  inch  deep  in  buttered 
pans;  shelled  peanuts  or  almonds  may  be  stirred  into  it,  enough  to  make  thick, 
or  but  few. 

Scotch  Butter. 

One  pound  of  brown  sugar,  one  teacupful  of  water,  one -half  cup  butter,  half 
teaspooiiful  essence  of  lemon;  put  the  sugar  and  water  into  a  saucepan  and  beat 
the  butter  to  a  cream;  when  the  sugar  has  dissolved,  add  the  butter  and  keep 
stirring  the  mixture  over  the  fire  until  it  sets  when  a  little  is  poured  into  cold 
water;  just  before  the  Scotch  is  done  add  the  essence  of  lemon;  pour  it  over  a 
buttered  tin;  when  cool,  break  it  in  regular  pieces;  ginger  can  be  used  in  place 
of  vanilla. 

Yankee  Cream. 

Six  ounces  of  loaf  sugar,  one  ounce  of  soaked  isinglass  and  one  pint  of 
EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK  put  in  a  saucepan;  boil  slowly  and 
stir  all  the  time  until  the  isinglass  is  dissolved;  strain  the  mixture,  and  when  a. 
little  cool  mix  it  with  a  coffee-cup  of  cream;  beat  thoroughly  until  it  thickens; 
pour  into  a  mould  and  put  away  to  cool. 

/s  x.   •..   I»AIICY    isoi  i  B.I:I 

PUREST   AND   BEST    IN   THE   WORLD. 


146 

Egyptian  corn,  bran,  peas,  beans,  broom  corn  seed  and  mid- 
dlings, in  various  combinations,  cooked  to  the  consistency  of 
mush,  many  of  the  most  valuable  of  which  cannot  be  used  by 
simply  grinding,  as  cows  will  not  eat  it  raw,  thus  enabling 
him  to  feed  his  cows  a  greater  variety  ;  and  they  do  not  be- 
come tired  of  having  the  same  food  too  often. 

Another  clipping  from  the  same  valuable  journal  gives  some 
information  on  the  milk  question  in  Boston,  giving  analyses  of 
milk  from  all  the  best  dairies,  in  none  of  which  do  their  tests 
come  anywhere  near  the  grade  of  the  milk  regularly  served  by 
the  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK  COMPANY 
of  this  city  to  their  patrons,  as  has  been  shown  by  the  analysis 
of  two  of  the  most  prominent  chemists  in  this  city,  from  milk 
taken  at  random  from  their  delivery  wagons  on  the  street, 
with  no  thought  of  submitting  it  for  a  test. 

"  The  Boston  people  —  or,  rather,  milk  dealers  —  appear  to  be 
considerably  waked  up  on  the  milk  question.  They  are  trying 
to  get  at  some  scale  whereby  milk  may  be  bought  and  sold 
without  doing  injustice  to  any  one.  Naturally  their  first  drive 
is  at  the  amount  of  solids  contained  in  the  average  milk  of  the 
different  heards.  Analyses  of  391  samples  showed  19  below  n 
per  cent,  of  solids,  121  between  n  and  12,  192  between  12  and 
13,  51  between  13  and  14,  and  8  above  14  per  cent  of  solids. 
Car  No.  i  contained  88  samples  averaging  12^  ;  car  No.  2  con- 
tained 1  1  samples  averaging  a  little  over  1  2  ;  car  No.  3  con- 
tained 52  samples  averaging  12  ;  car  No.  4  contained  71  sam- 
ples averaging  12,  and  car  No.  5  contained  112  samples 
averaging  12^  per  cent,  of  solids.  The  low  average  is 
attributed  to  the  wet  weather  and  the  extra  succulency  of  the 
feed.  The  milk  is  said  to  be  deficient  in  sugar  and  fat.  The 
lack  of  sugar  in  sweet  corn,  which  has  been  noticed  by  many, 
is  given  as  evidence  of  the  truthfulness  of  this  conclusion:  The 
quantity  of  milk  has  been  increased,  but  the  quality  lowered. 
The  increase  has  been  mainly  in  the  element  of  water.  It 
causes  lower  figures,  but  the  extra  amount  makes  up  for  this 
loss  in  price  and  keeps  the  dairyman's  receipts  at  about  a  fair 

(Continued  on  page 


People's  Home  Savings  Bank  Pays  Interest  from  Date  of  Deposit. 


147 

I*ine  Apple   Candy. 

Take  three  pounds  of  sugar,  one  pint  of  water  and  one  teaspoonful  of 
cream  of  tartar;  let  it  boil  until  it  becomes  brittle  when  dropped  in  cold  water- 
when  sufficiently  done,  take  off  the  fire  and  pour  into  a  shallow  dish;  when 
this  has  cooled  so  that  it  can  be  handled,  add  a  teaspoonful  of  tartaric  acid  and 
two  teaspoonfuls  of  the  extract  of  pine  apple,  and  work  them  in  the  mass;  the 
acid  must  be  fine;  work  this  in  thoroughly  and  run  out  in  thin  sticks. 

Chocolate  Caramels. 

One  quart  sweet  cream,  five  pounds  granulated  sugar,  one  and  one-half 
pounds  glucose,  one-half  pound  chocolate,  two  ounces  butter,  one  ounce  para- 
fine,  one-half  teacup  molasses;  boil  to  a  hard  ball,  then  place  to  cool  on  greased 
marble  or  tin;  use  vanilla  flavoring  for  above. 

Vanilla  Caramels. 

One-half  quart  sweet  cream,  five  pounds  granulated  sugar,  two  pounds 
glucose,  one-quarter  pound  butter,  two  ounces  parafine,  vanilla  flavoring;  cook 
to  a  hard  ball,  then  placemen  greased  tin  or  marble. 

Cocoanut  Caramels. 

One  quart  of  cream,  five  pounds  granulated  sugar,  two  and  a  half  pounds 
glucose,  two  and  a  half  pounds  fresh  grated  cocoanut,  one  ounce  parafine,  two 
ounces  butter;  stir  briskly  and  boil  to  a  hard  ball;  flavor  with  lemon. 

Marsh  Mallows. 

One  and  one-half  quarts  of  cream,  five  pounds  granulated  sugar,  two  and  a 
half  pounds  glucose,  one  ounce  parafine,  one  ounce  butter,  vanilla  for  flavor- 
ing; cook  to  a  hard  ball,  let  stand  until  almost  cold,  then  pull  to  a  white  cream. 

Chewing-  Molasses  Peppermints. 

One  quart  of  water,  one-half  quart  sweet  cream,  five  pounds  granulated 
sugar,  one  and  a  half  pounds  glucose,  half  pound  butter,  one  pint  molasses,  one 
ounce  parafine;  flavor  when  cold  with  peppermint;  pull  to  a  cream;  eave  pieces 
of  unpulled  for  stripes. 

Molasses  Kisses. 

One  quart  water,  four  pounds  granulated  sugar,  one  and  a  half  pounds 
glucose,  half  pint  molasses,  quarter  pound  butter,  half  cup  sweet  cream;  cook 
to  a  hard  ball;  after  being  pulled,  make  flat,  place  strip  of  white  cream  through 
center  and  roll  candy  over;  draw  to  a  strip  of  one  inch  in  diameter  and  cut. 

French  Nougat. 

Four  pounds  pulverized  sugar,  one  and  a  half  pounds  glucose,  two  cups 
honey,  one  quart  water,  half  teacup  sweet  cream;  place  over  a  quick  fire,  boil 
to  a  soft  ball;  beat  the  whites  of  six  eggs  stiff;  before  adding  eggs  place  cream 
in  an  earthen  jar  and  stir  briskly  to  a  soft  cream,  then  add  eggs,  vanilla  and 
almond  flavoring  to  suit  the  taste,  and  chop  blanched  almonds  and  pistastie 
nuts  to  stir  in  cream  when  almost  finished;  line  a  two-inch  deep  tin  with  nougat 
wafers,  and  pour  cream  into  same,  then  cover  with  nougat  wafers;  let  stand 
until  hard,  then  cut. 

Soura  de  Ville  Cnstard. 

One  pint  cream  (sweet),  balance  in  milk  to  make  quart;  place  latter  over 
fire  until  almost  to  a  boil;  nine  eggs,  beat  yolks  with  three  tablespoons  of 
granulated  sugar,  and  whip  until  stiff;  one  teaspoon  vanilla;  stir  in  yolks,  then 
whites;  place  in  oven  a  tin  of  hot  water  large  enough  to  hold  vessel  containing 
pudding;  to  cook  twenty  minutes. 

X.     •„     I»4IKV    BOTTLED    MILK, 

PUREST  AND  BEST  IN  THE  WORLD. 


148 

FREE  SAMPLES 

-OK- 


ML.  I. 


The  Only  Scrofula,  Catarrh,  Blood,  Liver  and 
Kidney  Medicine  on  Earth, 


A  New  Era  in   the   Treatment  of  All   Blood,    Liver   and   Kidney 

Diseases.    The  Greatest  Blood  Purifier  in  the  World. 

IT  TAKES  EFFECT  INSTANTLY. 


REFERENCES     FOR     RHEUMATISM.     CATARRH,      BLOOD,     LIVER, 
KIDNEY  AND    MALARIAL  TROUBLES. 

JAMES  MORGAN 310  Pine  Street,  San  Francisco 

H.  HOYT,  with  Cal.  Land  Association 634  Market  Street,  San  Francisco 

JAMES  HILL,  Policeman 818  Clay  Street,  Oakland,  Cal. 

J.  M.  WEBSTER 530  Kearny  Street,  San  Francisco 

A.  ANTHONY,  Policeman 927^  Post  Street,  San  Francisco 

JOLINE  BUTLER 1226  Bush  Street,  San  Francisco 

S.  BROWN,  Glove  Cutter 935  Folsom  Street,  San  Francisco 

MRS.  MAY  BROWN 933  Folsom  Street,  San  Francisco 

WILLIAM  H.  ROSS 3  Mary  Lane,  San  Francisco 

CAPTAIN  MASTEN,  with  Pacific  Mail  Co San  Francisco 

PAUL  DAVIS,  Supt.  House  Dept.  for  Easton  &  Eldridge 618  Market  Street,  San  Francisco 

J.  B.  LAUCK Traveling  Passenger  Agent  Southern  Pacific  Railroad 

H.  M.  McGILL,  Attorney-at-Law 15  Post  Street,  San  Francisco 

NEAL  RANEY,  Night  Inspector  U.  S.  Custom  House San  Francisco 

THOMAS  DUFF,  Policeman San  Francisco 

N.  W.  GRISWOLD,  President  Sonoma  County  Land  and  Improvement  Co 

,    29  New  Montgomery  Street,  San  Francisco 

CHAS.  E.  TARRANT 29  New  Montgomery  Street,  San  Francisco 

ALEXANDER  MARCHAND B.  and  O.  R.  R.  Office,  San  Francisco 

OVER  200O  REFERENCES  IN  SAN  FRANCISCO. 


HI.  I.  S.  T.  IS  TASTELESS,  5O  CAPSULES  IN  EACH  BOX* 


Medicine  Delivered  C.  O.  D.  ) 


.  O.  D.  )     f»     .  JL,4     ^  +*  /r«    ,     c  Ai-r 

i"e<1  }  PFiee,$l  Per  Box,  Six  for  $5, 


125  O'B' AK»el-:i,I.  STREET,  SAN  FRANCISCO. 


149 

French  "Fan  Fan"  Cream. 

Two  quarts  sweet  cream,  four  pounds  granulated  sugar,  one  tablespoon  of 
vanilla,  one-half  teaspoon  of  cream  tartar;  boil  to  a  soft  ball,  place  in  an 
earthen  jar  or  on  marble;  when  almost  cold,  stir  with  a  wooden  spoon  or  paddle 
to  a  stiff  cream;  add  chopped  nuts;  let  these  be  blanched  almonds  and  pistastie 
nuts;  let  the  above  remain  until  hard,  then  slice. 

French  Honey. 

Take  one  pound  of  brown  sugar,  three  eggs  well  beaten,  four  lemons,  juice 
and  rinds,  one-quarter  pound  of  butter;  put  all  in  a  saucepan  and  stir  con- 
tinually until  thick  like  honey. 

Fig  Candy. 

Take  one  cup  of  sugar,  one-third  cup  of  water,  saltspooii  cream  tartar;  do 
not  stir;  boil  to  amber  color,  cut  the  figs  open,  lay  them  on  a  well-buttered 
platter,  pour  the  candy  over  the  figs. 

Cocoanut  Candy. 

To  one  grated  cocoanut  add  half  its  weight  of  sugar  and  the  white  of  one 
egg  beat  to  a  stiff  froth;  mix  thoroughly  and  drop  on  buttered  white  paper; 
bake  fifteen  minutes  in  a  quick  oven. 

Cocoanut  Caramel*. 

Two  cups  of  brown  sugar,  one  cup  of  molasses,  one  cup  grated  cocoanut, 
one  cup  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK  (boiled),  one  tablespoon- 
ful  of  flour,  butter  the  size  of  an  English  walnut;  let  it  boil  slowly  and  pour  on 
flat  tins  to  cool;  mark  off  while  warm. 

EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK  ten  cents  per  quart. 
Peppermint  Drops, 

Take  two  cups  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  water;  boil  five  minutes;  flavor  with 
essence  of  peppermint  to  taste;  stir  until  quite  thick,  then  drop  on  a  buttered 
paper. 

Peanut  Candy. 

Take  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  cvip  of  New  Orleans  molasses,  half  cup  of  but- 
ter, half  a  cup  of  water;  let  it  boil  until  it  is  brittle  by  dropping  a  little  in 
water;  have  ready  one  cupful  of  peanuts  rubbed  in  halves,  stir  into  the  boiling 
candy;  pour  over  buttered  tins;  set  in  a  cool  place. 

Cinnamon  Tablets, 

Melt  one  pound  of  loaf  sugar  with  very  little  water  over  the  fire  and  put 
in  one  ounce  of  pounded  cinnamon,  and  keep  stirring  it  till  it  begins  to  rise 
into  a  froth,  then  pour  into  a  buttered  dish;  when  cool  enough,  cut  into  any 
shape  you  fancy. 

Maple  Sugar  Cream. 

Take  a  pound  of  maple  sugar,  put  it  in  a  saucepan,  set  it  over  a  slow  fire 
until  it  melts  into  syrup;  then  put  in  a  half  teacup  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY 
BOTTLED  CREAM,  and  boil  for  ten  minutes;  pour  it  out  into  well-buttered 
dishes;  cut  in  squares  while  cooling. 

Barley  Sugar. 

One  pint  of  strong  barley  water,  strained,  two  pounds  of  rock  candy,  lemon 
juice  to  taste;  boil  until  brittle;  after  taking  off  stir  in  briskly  the  white  of  one 
egg  well  beaten;  do  not  stir  while  boiling;  pour  into  buttered  pans;  it  may  be 
dropped  or  scored  into  long  sticks. 

x.  •,.   DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK, 

PUREST  AND  BEST  IN  THE  WORLD. 


150 

average.  Now  all  this  analysis  of  milk  and  development  of 
facts  is  interesting  and  confirmatory  of  the  popular  opinion 
about  the  effect  of  excessive  moisture  on  quality,  but  what 
does  it  settle  as  far  as  the  equity  of  the  cause  is  concerned  ? 
The  analyses  shows  only  the  condition  at  the  time  when  the 
samples  were  taken,  but  do  not  touch  the  future  at  all.  There 
is  a  constant  daily  variation  in  quality  which  must  daily  be 
ascertained  in  order  to  do  justice  to  all  concerned.  Have  the 
Boston  men  discovered  any  method,  whereby  they  can  test  the 
milk  of  any  dairy  on  every  car  that  reaches  them  ?  If  not,  they 
are  still  beating  the  air.  The  test  for  solids  is  as  simple  and  just 
as  any,  as  it  is  made  by  simple  evaporation.  Can  this  be  done 
every  day  ?  And  then  can  average  samples  of  every  herd  be 
always  taken  ?  This  taking  of  samples  is  a  nice  thing  to  do. 
One  or  two  cans  may  not  truly  represent  the  rest,  and  the  sam- 
ple taken  from  a  single  can  may  not  truly  represent  the  con- 
tents of  the  whole  can.  The  obstacles  in  the  way  of  reaching 
perfect  justice  are  many." 


On  page  144  will  be  found  the  advertisement  of  Messrs. 
James  Duffy  &  Co.,  in  which  a  point  is  made  that  deserves  the 
serious  consideration  of  our  well-to-do  people.  There  is  prob- 
ably no  other  city  in  the  world  where  white  walls  predominate 
as  in  this  city,  and  a  more  incongruous  conglomeration  than 
handsome  furniture,  an  elegant  carpet,  and  white  walls,  can- 
not be  imagined.  Besides  wall  paper  in  endless  variety,  they 
offer  a  fine  assortment  of  other  decorations  to  finish  off  a  room, 
artistically,  too  numerous  to  mention. 

On  page  148  is  the  advertisement  of  the  M.  I.  S.  T.  Com- 
pany, the  most  prominent  feature  of  which  is  the  honest  manner 
in  which  they  advertise  the  merits  of  their  remedy.  You  are 
not  referred  to  people  living  in  the  State  of  Maine  or  in  Pata- 
gonia, as  is  too  often  the  case,  but  the  names  of  well-known 
citizens  of  this  city  are  given,  with  their  address,  located  in 
various  parts  of  the  city,  convenient  for  any  one  to  refer  to. 
(Continued  on  page 


OF  CJETTYSBIJRG   PANORAMA  IS  GRAND- 


151 

Chocolate  Cream  l>rops. 

One  cake  of  chocolate,  three  cups  of  powdered  sugar,  one  cup  of  water 
with  a  pinch  of  soda  in  it,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  arrowroot,  one  tablespoonful 
butter,  two  teaspoonfuls  vanilla:  stir  the  sugar  and  water  together;  mix  in  the 
arrowroot  and  bring  to  a  boil,  stirring  constantly  to  induce  granulation;  boil 
about  ten  minutes,  then  add  the  butter;  take  from  the  fire  and  beat  until  it 
begins  to  look  like  granulated  cream,  put  in  the  vanilla,  butter  your  hands, 
make  the  cream  into  balls  about  the  size  of  a  large  marble,  and  lay  upon  a  but- 
tered dish;  meanwhile  the  chocolate,  grated  fine,  should  have  been  melted  by 
putting  it  in  a  saucepan  or  pail,  and  that  into  boiling  water;  when  it  is  a  black 
syrup  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  powdered  sugar  to  it,  beat  smooth,  turn  out 
upon  a  hot  dish  and  roll  the  cream  balls  in  it  until  sufficiently  coated;  lay  upon 
a  cold  dish  to  dry. 

Walnut  Creams, 

Take  the  white  of  one  egg  and  stir  into  it  enough  powderedjsugar  to  be 
able  to  roll  into  balls;  flavor  with  vanilla  and  set  in  a  cool  place  for  fifteen  min- 
utes; then  roll  into  balls  and  place  half  an  English  walnut  on  either  side  of  each 
ball  and  press  tightly  together. 

Butter  Taffy. 

Two  cups  of  brown  sugar,  four  tablespoonfuls  of  molasses,  two  of  vinegar, 
two  of  water,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butttr;  boil  until  it  is  brittle  in  water;  pour 
into  buttered  pans  and  let  it  cool. 

Chocolate  Caramels. 

One  cup  of  white  sugar,  one  cup  of  brown  sugar,  eight  tablespoonfuls 
chocolate,  one  tablespoonful  flour,  stirred  into  the  cream,  one  tablespoonful 
butter,  vanilla  flavoring,  soda  the  size  of  a  bean,  stirred  into  cream,  one  cup 
EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOT1  LED  CREAM;  hoil  all  the  ingredients  except 
the  chocolate  and  vanilla  extract  half  an  hour,  stirring  to  prevent  burning;  re- 
serve half  the  cream  and  cut  up  the  chocolate  in  it,  adding  very  little  water  if 
necessary,  draw  the  saucepan  to  side  of  range  and  stir  this  in  well;  put  back  over 
the  fire  and  boil  ten  minutes  longer,  stirring  continually;  when  it  makes  a  hard 
glassy  coat  on  the  spoon  it  is  done;  add  the  vanilla  after  taking  from  the  range; 
pour  into  well  buttered  tins;  when  cool  enough,  cut  it  in  squares. 

Chocolate   Candy. 

Take  one  cup  of  molasbes,  two  cups  of  sugar,  one  of  EWELL'S  X.  L. 
DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  one-half  cup  of  chocolate,  a  piece  of  butter  the  size 
of  an  English  walnut;  boil  the  milk  and  molasses  together,  scrape  the  chocolate 
fine  and  mix  with  just  enough  of  the  boiling  milk  and  molasses  to  moisten  it; 
rub  it  perfectly  smooth,  then  with  the  s^ugar  stir  into  the  boiling  liquid;  add  the 
butter  and  boil  twenty  minutes ;  try  it  by  putting  a  little  in  cold  water;  if  it 
hardens,  pour  it  into  buttered  shallow  dishes;  cut  in  squares. 

Chocolate  Creams. 

Take  two  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  water,  one  and  a  half  teaspoonfuls  of 
arrowroot,  one  teas^oonful  of  vanilla,  inside;  outside,  half  a  pound  of  chocol- 
late;  mix  the  inside  ingredients,  except  the  vanilla,  let  them  boil  seven  min- 
utes, stir  all  the  time;  after  this  is  taken  from  the  fire  stir  until  it  conies  to  a 
cream;  when  it  is  nearly  smooth  add  the  vanilla  and  make  the  cream  into  balls; 
for  outside,  melt  the  chocolate,  but  do  not  add  water  to  it;  roll  the  cream  balls 
into  the  chocolate  \vhile  it  is  warm. 

Chocolate  Candy. 

Take  one  cup  of  chocolate  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  molasses,  small 
piece  of  butter,  one  cup  of  E WELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK;  put 
them  all  in  a  saucepan  and  let  them  boil  ten  minutes;  pour  it  on  to  buttered  tin 
pans  and  mark  off. 


152 


T  131  IE 


DAILY  REPORT 


IS  THE  LEADING  EVENING  NEWSPAPER  OF 


THE  PACIFIC  COAST. 


SERVED   BY   CARRIERS  AT   50   CENTS   PER  MONTH. 


LARGEST  CIRCULATION  OF  ANY 

PAPER  IN  SAN   FRANCISCO. 


THE  REPORT  is  THE  ONLY  EVENING  NEWSPAPER  IN  SAN  FRANCISCO  WITH 

A    CIRCULATION  LARGE  ENOUGH    TO    REQUIRE    Two    LIGHTNING 

PRESSES  AND  THE  ONLY  ONE  TO  STEREOTYPE  ITS  FORMS. 


Editorial  Rooms: 


Easiness  Office: 


A.  C.  Hiester. 


st- 


153 

Caramels* 

Take  one  cup  of  best  syrup,  one  cup  of  brown  sugar,  one  cup  of  white 
sugar,  two  cupfuls  of  grated  chocolate,  two  cupfuls  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY 
BOTTLED  CREAM,  one  teaspoonful  of  corn  starch  mixed  with  cream;  rub  the 
chocolate  to  a  smooth  paste  with  a  little  of  the  cream;  boil  all  together  half  an 
hour  and  pour  it  into  buttered  platters  to  cool;  when  cool  enough,  mark  off 
into  little  squares. 

Sugar 

alf  a  po 
tered  paper  and  ba»ke  a  light  brown. 


The  whites  of  two  eggs,  half  a  pound  sugar,  lemon  or  vanilla;  drop  on  but- 
li 


Su«ar 

Three  cups  granulated  sugar,  one  and  a  half  cups  cold  water,  one-half  cup  vin 
egar;  boil  very  quickly  until  it  hardens  in  cold  water,  then  add  one  teaspoon 
vanilla;  pour  on  buttered  tin,  cool,  and  pull  till  white;  it  must  all  be  done 
quickly. 

Xittti  Frwtti  Candy. 

Four  cups  white  sugar,  one  cup  hot  water;  let  this  boil  for  eight  minutes 
without  stirring;  if  it  then  threads  from  the  spoon  take  it  from  the  fire  and  see 
if  a  small  spoonful  of  it  will  be  creamy  and  roll  in  a  ball;  if  it  will  not,  let  it  boil  a 
few  minutes  longer;  if  satisfactory,  pour  it  all  in  a  dish  and  beat  rapidly  with  a 
large  spoon;  do  not  add  flavoring  until  the  cream  has  commenced  to  cool;  raisins, 
currants,  dates  and  citron  may  be  chopped  fine  and  mixed  with  the  cream,  and 
be  formed  into  bars  or  flat  cakes. 

EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK  cannot  be  beat.  As  all 
•dairy  shows  it  takes  the  front  seat. 

Effcrton  Candy. 

Put  one  pound  of  powdered  white  sugar  to  one  teacup  of  water,  beat  one- 
quarter  pound  of  butter  to  a  cream;  when  the  sugar  is  dissolved  add  the  butter 
and  keep  stirring  the  mixture  over  the  fire  until  it  sets  when  a  little  is  poured 
on  a  buttered  dish;  just  before  it  is  done  add  vanilla  flavoring. 

Cocoanut   Kisses. 

One  cup  of  sugar  to  two  and  one-quarter  of  grated  cocoanut,  three-quarters 
tablespoon  of  corn  starch;  moisten  with  white  of  egg  to  make  it  stiff;  bake  in 
hot  oven. 

Corn  Candy. 

Pop  the  corn  and  pound  the  nicest  sufficiently  to  crack  it;  boil  one  coffee- 
«up  of  molasses  and  one  and  three-quarters  of  sugar  with  a  piece  of  butter  size 
of  a  walnut;  when  nearly  done,  stir  in  the  corn  and  pour  all  into  buttered  tins. 

Vanilla  Taffy. 

One  pound  white  sugar,  three-quarters  cup  cream,  one  ounce  gum  arabic; 
boil  sugar  and  cream  together;  when  half  done  add  dissolved  gum  arabic;  flavor 
with  vanilla. 

The  cry  of  the  people:  "We  must  have  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY 
BOTTLED  MILK." 

E  WEIL'S    X.    !„.    f>  AIKV    BOTTLED 

PUREST   AND    BEST    IN    THE   WORLD. 


154 


T-  J.  BASS  & 

14  and  16  Ellis  Street,  Near  Market, 
SAN  FRANCISCO,      -       -       CALIKORNIA. 


Artists'  Materials, 

Picture  Frames, 

House  Painters'  Materials, 

Carriage  Painters'  Materials, 


Window  Glass. 


WHOLESALE  AND    RETAIL. 


Goods  delivered  Promptly   to  any  Part   of  the   City 

of  Charge. 


155 

Butter  Taffy. 

One  cup  syrup,  one  cup  sugar;  when  nearly  done,  stir  in  over  one-quarter 
cup  butter;  flavor  with  vanilla. 

Cocoanut  Candy. 

Three-quarters  pound  dessicated  cocoanut,  one-half  pound  powdered  sugar, 
and  the  white  of  an  egg;  work  all  together  and  roll  into  little  balls. 

Cocoanut  Cream   Drops. 

One  cocoanut,  one  and  one-quarter  pounds  granulated  sugar;  put  sugar  and 
milk  of  cocoanut  together,  heat  slowly  until  sugar  is  melted,  then  boil  five  min- 
utes; add  grated  cocoanut,  boil,  stirring  constantly  for  ten  minutes  longer;  cut 
in  squares;  will  take  two  days  to  harden. 

FOR  CHOKING. — If  a  bone  or  any  substance  lodges  in  the  throat,  swallow 
as  large  a  piece  of  the  pulp  of  an  orange  as  possible. 

NEURALGIA. — Use  horse  radish  prepared  in  vinegar  for  external  appli- 
cation. 

Hickory  Hfnt  Macaroons. 

To  hickory  nuts  pounded  fine  add  mixed  ground  allspice  and  nutmeg; 
make  a  frosting  as  for  cakes,  stir  in  the  meats  and  spices,  putting  in  enough  to 
make  convenient  to  handle;  flour  the  hands  and  then  make  the  mixture  into 
small  balls;  lay  them  on  buttered  tins,  giving  room  to  spread;  bake  quickly; 
use  washed  butter  for  greasing  tins. 

Honey  Candy. 

Three-quarters  pint  white  sugar,  water  enough  to  dissolve  it,  three  table- 
spoons honey;  boil  until  brittle;  pull. 

Hoarlioitnd  Candy. 

Boil  an  ounce  and  a  half  of  dried  hoarhound  in  a  pint  and  a  quarter  of 
water  for  about  a  half  an  hour,  strain  and  add  three  and  one-half  pounds  brown 
sugar;  boil  until  sufficiently  hard;  mark  in  squares. 

FOR  BRUISES. — Apply  hot  water;  apply  hot  and  as  quickly  as  possible. 

Marsh  mallows. 

Dissolve  one-half  pound  of  white  arabic  in  one  pint  water,  strain  and  add 
three-quarters  of  a  pound  fine  sugar,  and  place  over  the  fire,  stirring  constantly 
until  the  syrup  is  dissolved  and  all  of  the  consistency  of  honey;  add  gradually 
the  whites  of  four  eggs,  well  beaten;  stir  the  mixture  until  somewhat  thin; 
flavor  with  vanilla  and  pour  into  tin;  mark  in  squares  when  cool. 

CROUP.— Use  powdered  alum  for  croup.  Mix  one  teaspoon  powdered 
alum  with  two  of  sugar,  and  use  freely  until  it  relieves. 

Use  powdered  alum  for  toothache.     Fill  decayed  tooth  with  it. 

FOR  EARACHE. — A  bit  of  cotton  batten;  put  on  a  pinch  of  black  pepper, 
tie  it  up,  dip  in  sweet  oil,  insert  in  the  ear,  put  a  flannel  over  the  ear  to  keep 
it  warm. 

Nutritious  and  satisfying:    EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK. 

EWEI.I/S     X.     I..     1>AI»Y     BOTTLED 

PUREST  AND  BEST  IN  THE  WORLD. 


156 


221    KEARNY   STREET 

BET.  BUSH  &  SUTTER. 


popular  modern  priced  Coffee  Houge  on 

SMALL    FRONT,    BUT  AMPLE  ROOM  INSIDE,     INCLUDING 
LARGE  LADIES  PARLOR  ADJOINING  IN  THE  REAR. 


DESPOT     KOR: 

Johnson's  Home-made  Doughnuts, 

FOR  SALE  IN  ALL  PRINCIPAL  COFFEE  HOUSES  IN  THE  CITY. 

. 

FOR    THEM. 


Depot  (during  Berry  Season)  for  the  Famous  Johnson's  Straw- 
berry Charlotte  Russe  Cake,   BEST  IN  THE  CITY. 

A.    trial     R.es*pectfu.lly    Solicited, 

M.  JOHNSON. 

P.  S. — Public  Telephone  Station,  direct  communication  to 
points  now  reached  by  telephone ;  long  distance  speaking  instrument. 
Strictly  private.  M.  JOHNSON. 


157 

Beverages. 


Tea. 

Boil  the  water,  scald  the  pot;  allow  a  teaspoon  of  tea  to  each  person;  pour 
a  little  water  on  the  tea  and  let  it  stand  a  few  minutes,  then  fill  the  pot  from 
the  tea  kettle;  do  not  let  it  boil,  but  just  come  to  the  boiling  point;  serve  with 
EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  CREAM. 

Coffee. 

Allow  a  tablespoon  of  coffee  to  each  person  and  an  extra  tablespoonful  for 
strength;  stir  with  this  a  little  cold  water  and  an  egg,  then  add  the  rest  of  the 
water  and  let  the  coffee  just  come  to  boiling  point;  serve  with  EWELL'S  X. 
L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  CREAM. 

Chocolate. 

.Grate  your  chocolate,  allowing  an  ounce  of  chocolate  to  each  person,  pour 
on  it  a  quart  of  boiling  water,  boil  it  twenty  minutes,  add  enoughjof  EWELL'S 
X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK  to  cool;  also  stir  in  white  of  an  egg,  well 
beaten,  add  more  milk  and  boil  about  ten  minutes. 

Cocoa.. 

Boil  three  tablespoons  of  cocoa  in  a  quart  of  water  about  a  half  an  hour, 
pour  in  nearly  a  quart  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK  and  boil 
it  up  again. 

Cocoa  Shells. 

Put  a  heaping  teacup  of  shells  in  a  quart  of  water;  boil  them  a  long  time, 
about  two  hours;  boil  some  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK, 
and  serve  with  it. 

Irish  Moss  Jelly. 

Take  half  an  ounce  of  Irish  moss,  one  pint  of  EWELL'S.  X.  L.  DAIRY 
BOTTLED  MILK;  boil  well,  strain  and  add  sugar,  salt  and  lemon  to  taste. 

Ulilk  for  Infants. 

Cow's  milk  one  part,  water  two  parts;  sweeten  slightly  with  loaf  sugar; 
the  above  preparation  may  be  altered  as  the  child  advances  in  age. 

Crust  Coffee. 

Toast  slowly  one  or  two  slices  of  brown  or  white  bread,  pour  boiling  water 
over  it;  drink  hot  or  cold,  milk  and  sugar  to  taste. 

l>rink  in  Fevers. 

Put  a  little  sage,  two  sprigs  of  balm  and  a  little  sorrel  into  a  stone  jug, 
having  first  washed  them;  peel  thin  a  lemon,  slice  it  and  put  a  small  piece  of 
the  peel  in,  then  pour  in  three  pints  of  boiling  water;  sweeten  and  cover  close. 


Sage  Tea. 

ounce,  boiling 
nd  lemon  juice 

Tapioca  Jelly 


Dried  leaves  of  sage  half  an  ounce,  boiling  water  one  quart;  infuse  for  half 
an  hour  and  strain;  add  sugar  and  lemon  juice  as  required  by  the  patient. 


Tapioca  two  tablespoonfuls,  water  one  pint;  boil  gently  for  an  hour,  or 
until  it  assumes  a  jelly-like  appearance;  add  sugar,  wine  and  nutmeg,  with 
lemon  juice  to  suit  the  patient's  taste. 


X,    I;,    »AIRY    BOTTL,EI> 

PTBEST   AND   BEST   IN   THE   WORLE. 


158 


? 


Why  Live  in  Lodgings; 

STUDY  THIS  OUT! 

$150 

[ONE  HUNDRED   AND    KlRTY  DOLL 

Will  enable  you  to  go  to  Housekeeping  in  a  Four-Room  House  or 
Flat  with  the  following  Outfit  of 

CARPETS  AND  FURNITURE: 

I»A»t,OR—  Tapestry  Brussels  Carpet,  of  good  quality  ;  Walnut  Parlor  Set, 
Mohair  Plush  Covering,  comprising  Sofa,  Divan,  Armchair,  Patent  Rocker, 
Two  Reception  Chairs,  and  Antique  Center  Table. 

BEDROOM  —  Good  Ingram  Carpet  ;  Hardwood  Antique  Bedroom  Set, 
including  Double  Bedstead,  Bureau  with  Swing  Bevel  Mirror,  Washstand, 
Table,  Two  Chairs  and  Rocker,  Woven  Wire  Mattress,  Top  Mattress, 
Pair  of  Pillows  and  Comforter. 


—  Kidderminster  Carpet;  Antique  Hardwood  Extension 
Table,  and  Six  High-back  New  Style  Antique  Cane  Seat  Dining  Chairs. 
KITCHEN—  Linoleum  ;    Patent    Kitchen    Table    with    Flour-bins,    Two 
Moulding  Boards  and  Two  Hardwood  Chairs. 

N.  B.—  The  Carpets  are  for  rooms  up  to  12  feet  square,  and  are 
Sewed,  Lined  and  Laid. 


One  of  the  Largest  Stocks  of  Garnets  and  Furniture  In  the  City  of  the 
Newest  Desips  and  Styles,  marked  throughout  in  Plain  Figures 
at  Prices  to  Suit  all  Purses. 


STERLING  FURNITURE  CO., 

(Rosenthal  Building,) 

1O39  and  1O41    Market    Street, 

Bet.  6th  and  7th,  Opp.  Jones  and  McAllister. 


159 

Barley   Water. 

Put  a,,large  tablespoonful  of  well- washed  pearl  barley  into  a  bowl,  pour 
over  it  boiling  water;  let  it  simmer  half  an  hour,  then  drain  off  the  water, 
sweeten  to  taste  and  add  the  juice  of  a  lemon  and  grated  nutmeg. 

Hot  Apple   Today. 

Heat  a  tumbler,  put  in  one  teaspoonful  of  sugar  and  one  wineglassful  of 
apple  brandy;  fill  glass  two -thirds  full  with  hot  water,  add  one-half  of  a  warm 
baked  apple,  a  little^grated  nutmeg,  and  send  to  the  table  with  spoon  in  the 
glass  and  some  hard  crackers. 

Milk  Punch. 

Dissolve  half  a  pound  of  sugar  in  a  little  hot  water  which  has  been 
flavored  lightly  with  lemon  peel;  add  this  to  two  quarts  of  EWELL'S  X.  L. 
DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  pour  in  one  pint  of  brandy  and  one  gill  of  rum; 
mix  thoroughly,  dust  a  little  grated  nutmeg  over  it  and  set  it  in  a  cool  place; 
beat^he  whites  of  four  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth  with  a  little  sugar  and  float  on 
top  of  punch;  place  a  small  piece  of  ice  in  each  tumbler  when  serving. 

Santa  Cruz  Punch. 

Place  the  juice  of  two  lemons,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sugar  and  a  little 
water  in  a  tumbler,  stir  a  few  minutes  to  dissolve  the  sugar,  add  a  wineglassful 
of  Santa  Cruz  rum,  fill  up  the  tumbler  with  fine  ice,  add  a  slice  of  orange  and 
pine  apple;  stir  well  and  serve  with  straws. 

Roman  Punch. 

Grate  the  yellow  rinds  of  four  lemons  and  two  oranges  upon  two  pounds 
of  loaf  sugar,  squeeze  on  the  juice  of  the  lemons  and  oranges,  cover  it  and  let 
it  stand  till  next  day,  then  strain  through  a  sieve,  add,  a  bottle  of  champagne 
and  the  whites  of  eight  eggs  beaten  to  froth;  you  may  freeze  or  not. 

Slippery  Elm  Tea. 

Take  one  teaspoonful  of  slippery  elm,  pour  over  it  one  cup  of  boiling 
water;  use  the  bark  broken  in  small  pieces;  when  cool,  strain  and  flavor  with 
lemon  juice  and  sugar;  this  is  soothing  in  any  inflammation  of  the  throat. 

Cream  UTectar. 

Dissolve  two  pounds  of  crushed  sugar  in  three  quarts  ot  water,  boil  down 
to  two  quarts,  drop  in  the  whites  of  two  eggs  while  boiling,  then  strain  and 
put  in  tartaric  acid  to  taste;  when  cold,  drop  in  the  lemon  juice  to  taste,  then 
bottle  and  cork;  shake  two  or  three  times  a  day. 

Herb  Teas. 

Pour  one  cup  boiling  water  over  one  tablespoon  of  the  herbs,  cover^  steep 
ten  minutes,  sweeten  to  taste;  mullen  tea  is  good  for  inflammation  of  the 
lungs,  camomile  for  sleeplessness,  catnip  for  infant's  colic,  cold  sage  for  night 
sweats,  cinnamon  for  hemorrhages. 

Claret   Cup. 

Take  one  bottle  sodawater,  one  lemon  cut  very  thin,  five  tablespoonfuls  of 
powdered  sugar,  one  grated  nutmeg,  one  glass  of  brandy,  one  wineglass  of 
sherry  wine,  one  quart  of  claret,  mix  thoroughly  together;  half  an  hour  before 
it  is  to  be  used  put  in  a  large  piece  of  ice,  so  that  it  may  be  very  cold  to  serve. 

Elder  Tea. 

Make  a  strong  tea  of  elder  flowers,  sweeten  with  fresh  honey;  this  tea 
should  be  drank  as  hot  as  possible  after  the  person  is  warm  in  bed;  it  pro- 
duces perspiration,  and  will  often  break  up  a  hard  cold,  and  is  a  most  excellent 
remedy  for  a  cough. 


160 

\ 

P.  O.  Box  2055.  Rooms  18,  19,  20  and  21 

DR.  C.  G.  TOLAND, 

OFFICE:      7    MONTGOMERY    AVENUE, 
Cor.  of  Washington  Street. 


SAN  FRANCISCO,  Feb.  15,  1890. 
EwELL's  BOTTLED  MILK  Co. — Gentlemen:     Have 
used    your   milk    for  more    than    a    year    past,    and 
though  tested  more  than   once,  I  find   it  absolutely 

pure. 

Respectfully, 

C.  G.  TOLAND. 

Residence  820  Filbert  Street. 


161 

Thieves'   Vinegar. 

Soak  two  ounces  each  of  rue,  sage,  rosemary,  lavender  and  wormwood  for 
three  days  in  one  pint  of  white  wine  vinegar,  stand  at  a^short  distance  from 
the  fire,  dissolve  half  an  ounce  of  camphor  in  the  vinegar,  mix  thoroughly  and 
strain  well;  in  case  of  infection  bathe  the  nostrils  and  around  the  mouth  with 
the  preparation. 

Scent  Sachet. 

Take  oi'e  ounce  each  of  orris  root,  coriander  seed,?rose  leaves,  mace,  lav- 
ender flowers,  sweet  flag  (calamus  aromaticus),  mix  well]together  and  put  in  a 
silk  bag. 

Raisin  Wine. 

Take  three  pounds  of  raisins,  seed  and  chop  them,  a  lemon,  a  pound  Tof 
sugar,  two  gallons  of  boiling  water;  pour  into  a  stone  jar  and  stir  daily  for  six 
days;  strain,  bottle  and  put  in  a  cool  place  for  ten  days,  when  the  wine  will  be 
ready  for  use. 

Currant  \Vi  ne. 

Stem,  mash  and  strain  them,  adding  a  half  pint  of  water  and  a  pound  of 
sugar  to  a  quart  of  mashed  fruit,  stir  well  up  together  and | pour, 'into  a  clean 
cask,  leaving  the  bung  hole  open  or  cover  with  a  piece  of  net;  it  should 
stand  for  a  month  to  ferment,  when  it  will  be  ready  for^bottling.  __ 

Milk  Punch. 

Pare  off  the  yellow  rind  of  four  lemons  and  "'  steep  4t '  for  twenty -four 
hours  in  a  quart  of  brandy,  then  mix  with  it^the  juice  of  the  lemons,  a 
pound  and  a  half  of  sugar,  two  grated  nutmegs  and  a  quart  of  water;  add 
a  quart  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  made  boiling  hot, 
and  strain  the  whole  through  a  jelly  bag;  bottle  it;  it  will  keep  for  months. 

Raspberry  Vinegar. 

To  four  quarts  of  ripe  raspberries  put  enough  vinegar  to  cover, rand  let 
them  stand  twenty-four  hours;  scald  and  strain  it,  add  a  pound  of  sugar  to 
a  pint  of  juice,  boil  it  twenty  minutes,  bottle  and  seal;  it  will  keep  for 
years;  to  one  glass  of  water  add  a  great  spoonful  off  the  vinegar;  it  is  much, 
relished  by  the  sick. 

JLenionade. 

Take  half  a  pound  of  sugar  and  reduce  it  to  a  syrup  with  one  pint  of  water, 
add  the  rind  of  six  lemons  and  let  stand  an  hour;  remove  the  rinds'and  add  the 
strained  juice  of  the  lemons;  add  one  bottle  of  "Apollinaris"  water  and  a 
block  of  ice  in  center  of  bowl;  peel  two  lemons  and  cut  up  in  very  thin  slices 
and  put  in  lemonade. 

Egg  Nogg. 

Whip  the  whites  of  six  eggs  into  a  stiff  cream,  adding  half  cupful  of  sugar; 
whip  the  yolks  and  pour  in  a  quart  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  D  AIR  Y_  BOTTLED 
MILK,  adding  a  half  pint  of  good  brandy  and  a  little  flavoringTof  nutmeg; 
stir  up  and  thoroughly  mix,  then  add  the  whites. 

I .CMIOII  Syrup* 

Take  the  juice  of  ten  lemons,  grate  the  rind  of  five  in  it,  let  it  stand 'over 
night,  then  take  five  pounds  of  sugar  and  make  a  thick  syrup;  when  cool, 
strain  the  juice  into  it  and  squeeze  as  much  oil  from  the  grated  rind  as  will 
suit  the  taste;  atablespoonful  in  a  goblet  of  water  will  make  a  refreshing  drink 
on  a  hot  day. 

EWEUL'S  X.  t,.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  Jl I I,K. 

PUREST  AND  BEST  IN  THE  WORLD. 


162 

On  page  152  appears  the  advertisement  of  the  Daily  Report, 
a  paper^too  well  known  to  our  citizens  to  need  special  mention. 

On  page  102  will  be  found  the  advertisement  of  the  Yolo 
Mills,  Messrs.  Hinz  &  Plagemann,  proprietors.  At  this 
mill  is  manufactured  the  celebrated  "  Breakfast  Delight,"  also 
a  preparation  called  "  Normal  Nutriment,"  for  which  great 
things*  are  claimed,  as  a  substitute  for  mother's  milk  for  in- 
fants, also  a  food  for  nursing  mothers,  invalids,  dyspeptics 
and_convalescen  ts  . 

On  page  154  will  be  found  the  advertisement  of  T.  J.  Bass 
&  Co.,  dealers  in  artists'  materials,  picture  frames,  house 
painters'  and  carriage  painters'  materials,  and  window  glass, 
wholesale  and  retail. 

On  page  156  the  advertisement  of  "The  Cafe"  is  placed, 
•one  of  the  most  popular  coffee  houses  in  the  city.  The 
frontage  on  Kearny  street  is  small,  but  upon  entering  one  is 
ushered  into  one  of  the  largest  dining  rooms  in  the  city,  where 
ample  accommodations  can  be  found  at  most  reasonable  prices. 

On  page  158  the  Sterling  Furniture  Company  announce  to 
the  public  their  unsurpassed  facilities  for  furnishing  a  modern 
house.  They  have  but  recently  taken  possession  of  their  fine 
building  on  Market  street,  but  are  one  of  the  oldest  houses  in 
the  business,  and  make  a  specialty  of  trying  to  induce  people 
to  go  to  housekeeping  by  offering  to  furnish  a  four-roomed 
house  complete  for  one  hundred  and  fifty  dollars. 

'On  page  168  is  the  advertisement  of  Craig,  Cochran  &  Co., 
undertakers  and  embalmers. 

On  page  168  is  the  advertisement  of  the  old-established  pho- 
tographer, Taber,  than  whom  none  is  better  known  on  this 
coast 

On  page  168  is  the  advertisement  of  John  T.  Myers  &  Co., 
dealers  in  ranges,  gasoline  stoves,  and  all  kitchen  supplies  ; 
also  agents  for  the  New  Monarch  gasoline  stove. 

On  page  168  is  also  the  advertisement  of  C.  M.  Gruman, 
dealer  in  furniture,  bedding,  carpets,  mirrors,  etc.  ;  also  agent 
for  the  New  Bra  hydraulic  washer. 

(Continued  on  page 


Highest  Bates  of  Interest  at  People's  Home  Savings  Bank. 


163 

Itaspl>erry  Syrup. 

Take  very  ripe  raspberries,  crush  them  in  a  cloth  and  press  the' juice  from 
them;  to  each  pint  of  the  raspberry  juice  add  a  pint  of  simple  syrup;  boil  gently 
'  for  one  hour,  then  let  it  become  cold;  bottle  and  seal  it;  when  served,  reduce  it 
to  taste  with  water  or  soda. 

Strawberry  Syrup. 

Made  as  directed  for  raspberry. 

Stra>v1>erry  Shertoert. 

Take  one  pound  and  a  half  of  pickled  strawberries,  crush  them,  add  to 
them  a  quart  of  water;  pour  this  into  a  basin  with  a  lemon,  sliced;  let  it  re- 
main for  two  hours;  put  one  pound  and  a  half  of  sugar  into  another  basin  and 
strain  through  a  cloth  the  juice;  when  the  sugar  has  all  dissolved  strain  again; 
set  the  vessel  containing  it  on  ice  until  ready  to  serve. 

Iced  Tea. 

Prepare  tea  in  the  morning,  making  it  stronger  and  sweeter  than  usual; 
strain  and  pour  into  a  jar  or  bottle  and  set  in  the  ice  chest  until  ready  to  use; 
drink  from  goblets  without  cream;  serve  ice  broken  in  small  pieces;  iced  tea 
may  be  prepared  from  either  green  or  b^ack,  but  is  improved  to  mix  the  tea. 

Iced  Orange  Water. 

Take  as  many  oranges  as  will  be  necessary,  cut  in  half  and  press  the  juice 
from  them;  take  the  pulp  carefully  from  the  rind  and  put  it  in  a  bowl,  pour  a 
little  boiling  water  on  it,  stir  it  well  and  strain  it  through  a  sieve;  mix  this 
with  the  orange  juice  and  stir  in  as  much  syrup  as  will  make  a  rich  syrup; 
freeze  -it  like  ice  cream. 

l^emon  Ice. 

Rub  the  rinds  of  six  lemons  upon  twelve  lumps  of  sugar,  squeeze  overthem 
the  strained  juice,  half  a  pint  of  water,  and  a  pint  of  syrup  made  by  boiling  one 
pound  of  sugar  in  a  pint  of  water;  put  in  an  earthen  crock  for  two  hours,  then 
mix,  strain  and  freeze;  the  ice  will  be  improved  by  adding  the  whites  of  three 
€ggs  beaten  to  a  froth  with  four  ounces  of  sugar;  serve  in  glasses. 

Try  the  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK. 

Elderberry  Syrup. 

Wash  and  strain  ripe  elderberries,  put  a  pint  of  molasses  to  a  pint  of  the 
elderberry  juice,  boil  it  twenty  minutes,  stirring  constantly;  when  cold,  add  to 
each  quart  a  pint  of  French  brandy,  bottle  and  cork  it  tight;  it  is  an  excellent 
remedy  for  a  cough. 

Red  Currant  Cordial. 

To  two  quarts  of  red  currant  juice  put  one  quart  of  whisky;  let  it  stand 
twenty-four  hours,  strain  through  a  flannel  bag;  to  every  two  quarts  of  this 
liquor  add  one  pound  of  loaf  sugar,  quarter  of  a  pound  of  ginger;  let  the  whole 
stand  twelve  hours,  then  strain,  bottle  and  seal;  it  is  improved  by  using 
half  raspberry  juice. 

Whisky  Punch. 

One  wineglass  Phoenix  Old  Bourbon  Whisky,  two  wineglasses  boiling 
water,  sugar  to  taste;  dissolve  the  sugar  well  with  one  wineglass  of  the  water, 
then  pour  in  the  whisky  and  add  the  balance  of  the  water;  sweeten  to  taste  and 
put  in  a  small  piece  of  lemon  rind  or  a  thin  slice  of  lemon. 

All  these  goods  can  be  had  at  Naber,  Alfs  &  Brune's,  Nos.  323  and  325 
Market  street.  Warranted  pure. ^_^ 

~  USE  E  WEIL'S  X.   JL.   »AIRY  BOTTI,EI>   J11I.K, 

PUREST  AND  BEST  IN  THE  WORLD. 


164 


323-325  Market  St.,  S.  F. 


PHOENIX  OLD  BOURBON 


Ttie   Puirest  and.   Best  Wb-iskiey  in  tne   Nlarket 
for   Medical  and.   Rannily  Use. 


YOUR  OROOE>R 


165 

Whisky  Cobbler. 

Two  wineglasses  of  Phoenix  Old  Bourbon  Whisky,  one  tablespoonful  of 
sugar,  two  or  three  slices  of  orange;  fill  tumbler  with  ice,  and  shake  well;  sip 
through  a  straw. 

All  these  goods  can  be  had  at  Naber,  Alfs  &  Brune's,  Nos.  323  and  325 
Market  street.  Warranted  pure. 

Whisky    Cocktail. 

One  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  two  dashes  of  bitters  (Angostura),  one  wineglass 
•of  Phoenix  Old  Bourbon  Whisky  and  a  piece  of  lemon  peel;  fill  one-third  full 
of  fine  ice,  shake  and  strain  in  a  fancy  red  wineglass. 

All  these  goods  can  be  had  at  Naber,  Alfs  &  Brune's,  Nos.  323  and  325 
Market  street.  Warranted  pure. 


Whisky 

One-half  tablespoon  of  white  sugar,  one  tablespoon  of  water,  one  wineglass 
•of  "Phoenix  Old  Bourbon  Whisky;  fill  two-thirds  full  of  shaved  ice,  and  use  two 
sprigs  of  mint,  the  same  as  in  the  recipe  for  mint  julep. 

All  these  goods  can  be  had  at  Naber,  Alfs  &  Brune's,  Nos.  323  and  325 
Market  street.  Warranted  pure. 

Whisky  Toddy. 

One  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  one-half  wineglass  of  water,  one  wineglass  of 
Phcenix  Old  Bourbon  Whisky,  one  small  lump  of  ice;  stir  with  spoon. 

All  these  goods  can  be  had  at  Naber,  Alfs  &  Brune's,  Nos.  323  and  325 
Market  street.  Warranted  pure. 


Hot  Whisky 

One  wineglass  of  Phoenix  Old  Bourbon  Whisky;  fill  tumbler  one-third  full 
with  boiling  water,  and  grate  nutmeg  on  top. 

All  these  goods  can  be  had  at  Naber,  Alfs  &  Brune's,  Nos.  323  and  325 
Market  street.  Warranted  pure. 

Milk  Punch. 

One  tablespoonful  of  fine  white  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  of  water,  one 
wineglass  of  Cognac  brandy,  one-half  wineglass  of  Santa  Cruz  rum,  one-half 
tumblerful  of  shaved  ice;  fill  with  E  WELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED 
MILK,  shake  the  ingredients  well  together  and  grate  a  little  nutmeg  on  top. 

All  these  goods  can  be  had  at  Naber,  Alfs  &  Brune's,  Nos.  323  and  325 
Market  street.  Warranted  pure. 

Egg  r*ogg. 

One  tablespoonful  of  fine  sugar  dissolved  with  one  tablespoonful  of  cold 
water,  one  egg,  one  wineglass  of  Cognac  brandy,  one-half  wineglass  of  Santa 
Cruz  rum,  one-third  tumblerful  of  EWELL'SX.  L.  DAIEY  BOTTLED  MILK; 
fill  the  tumbler  one-quarter  full  with  shaved  ice,  shake  the  ingredients  until 
they  are  thoroughly  mixed  together,  and  grate  a  little  nutmeg  on  top.  Every 
well-ordered  house  has  a  tin  sgg-nogg  "shaker,"  which  is  a  great  aid  in  mixing 
this  beverage. 

All  these  goods  can  be  had  at  Naber,  Alfs  &  Brune's,  Nos.  323  and  325 
Market  street.  Warranted  pure. 


Hot  Egg  Nogg. 

This  drink  is  very  popular  in  California,  and  is  made  in  precisely  the 
same  manner  as  the  cold  egg  nogg  above,  except  that  you  must  use  boiling 
*w  ater  instead  of  ice. 

All  these  goods  can  be  had  at  Naber,  Alfs  &  Brune's,  Nos.  323  and  325 
Market  street.  Warranted  pure. 


166 


SAN  FRANCISCO,  CAL. 

Established    1855. 

Has  attained  the  highest  rank  among  the  Journals  of  the  Pacific  Coast  as- 
a  Family  Newspaper.  Pure  in  tone,  high  in  literary  excellence,  containing  all 
that  is  valuable  of  the  news  of  the  world,  without  sensationalism,  its  regular 
visits  are  hailed  with  delight  at  thousands  of  firesides, 

To  the  Ladies  of  the  family  does  it  especially  commend  itself,  each  issue 
containing  in  its  several  departments  so  much  that  is  valuable  in  household 
economy. 

As  an  educator  of  the  youth  of  the  family  lies  perhaps  its  greatest  value  ; 
teeming  with  news  from  all  portions  of  the  globe,  every  issue  is  looked 
for  with  impatience  and  read  with  the  greatest  interest  by  each  member  in 
turn. 

Talent  and  experience  have  combined  to  make  the  EVENING  BULLETIN  the 
most  desirable  of  all  papers  for  the  home  and  fireside.  It  is  bright,  fresh,  and 
ever  new,  and  there  can  be  no  more  welcome  visitor  or  more  delightful  one  in 
the  home  circle. 


THE  WEEKLY  BULLETIN 

Is  the  Largest  and  Best  Weekly  Newspaper  published  in  the  West,  and  is  in 
every  respect  a  First- Class  Family  Paper,  appealing  to  the  interest  of  every 
member  of  the  household. 

The   SEUII-WEEKX.Y  BUXiUBTIN  is  the  regular  Weekly  Bul- 
letin and  Friday's  issue  of  each  week. 


TERMS      OF     SUBSCRIPTION. 

The  DAILY  BULLETIN  is  served  by  carriers  in  San  Francisco   and  the   large 

towns  of  the  interior  at  25  cents  per  week. 

Daily,  by  mail  or -express,  -        -        §6  00 

Weekly  alone,         -        •        •         -        -         -      1  50 

Weekly,  with  Daily  of  Friday,          .         -  2  00  ' 

Parts  of  a  year  in  proportion. 

Advertising  Bates  made  known  on  application. 


San    Francisco   Bulletin  Co. 

622  Montgomery  Street,  San  Francisco,   Cal. 


167 


Imperial 

Take  one  tablespoonful  powdered  sugar,  one  tablespoonf  ul  cold  water,  one 
wineglassful  brandy,  one  egg,  one-half  tumbler  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY 
BOTTLED  MILK,  a  little  St.  Croix  rum;  shake  it  well  with  a  small^uantity 
of  ice,  then  grate  a  little  nutmeg  over  it.  tfcVjii  £  £  w 

All  these  goods  can  be  had  at  Naber,  Alfs  &  Brune's,  Nos.  323*and  325 
Market  street.  Warranted  pure. 

Champagne  Cocktail. 

(One  bottle  of  wine  to  every  six  large  glasses.     Per  glass.) 

One-half  teaspoonf  ul  of  sugar,  one  or  two  dashes  of  bitters,  one-  piece'^of 
lemon  peel;  fill  tumber  one-third  full  of  broken  ice  and  fill  balance  with  wine; 
shake  well  and.  serve. 

All  these  goods  can  be  had  at  Naber,  Alfs  &  Brune's,  Nos,  323  and  325 
Market  street.  Warranted  pure. 

Hot  Brandy  and  Riim  Punch. 

(For  a  party  of  fifteen.) 

One  quart  of  Jamaica  rum,  one  quart  of  Cognac  brandy,  one  pound  of 
white  loaf  sugar,  four  lemons,  three  quarts  of  boiling  water,  one  teaspoonf  ul  of 
nutmeg. 

All  these  goods  can  be  had  at  Naber,  Alfs  &  Brune's,  Nos.  323  and  325 
Market  street.  Warranted  pure. 

Stone  Fence. 

One  wineglass  of  whisky  (Phoenix  Old  Bourbon),  two  or  three'small  lumps 
of  ice.  Fill  up  the  glass  with  sweet  cider. 

All  these  goods  can  be  had  at  Naber,  Alfs  &  Brune's,  Nos.  323  and  325 
Market  street.  Warranted  pure. 


Cookery  for?  Invalids. 


lint d on  Broth. 

For  the  sick  such  broths  must  be  made  as  plainly  as  possible,  and  so  as 
to  secure  the  juices  of  the  meat.  Boil  slowly  two  pounds  of  lean  mutton  for 
two  hours,  skim  it  carefully,  and  do  not  put  in  too  much  salt.  If  the  doctor 
permits,  some  vegetables,  as  seasoning,  may  be  added — rice  or  barley  are  good. 

Tapioca  Relish. 

Wash  the  tapioca  carefully;  then  soak  it  for  five  hours ;  simmer  it  then  in 
a  stewpan  until  it  becomes  quite  clear ;  add  the  juice  of  one  lemon  and  a  little 
white  wine.  * 

Flour  Candle. 

Take  two  tablespoonf uls  of  flou  r;  mix  very  smoothly  with  a  little  water 
and  a  pinch  of  salt;  stir  it  into  a  quart  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED 
MILK,  stirring  it  very  carefully  to  prevent  burning  or  becoming  lumpy;  add 
a  few  raisins.  Season  with  nutmeg  or  cinnamon.  This  is  excellent  in  case  of 
diarrhoea. 

Rye  Pudding. 

Take  one  pint  of  EWELL'S  X.  L  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK;  thicken 
with  rye  flour,  and  eaten  with  cream  or  molasses,  is  very  wholesome. 


168 


photoamphet?, 


OPPOSITE 

Palace  Hotel  and  Masonic  Temple. 


8  Montgomery  Street. 

INSTANTANEOUS  PHOTOGRAPHS. 

VIEWS   OF  PACIFIC  COAST  SCENERY,  FINE  ART  WOEK,   PORTRAITS  FROM  LIFE  OR  COPY. 

We  make  a  Specialty  of  the  Finest  Water-Color  Work,  on  Porcelain  and  Ivory,  for  Miniatures  or  Enlarge- 
ments, by  the  Best  Artists  that  can  be  secured,  and  at  the  Most  Reasonable  Prices. 

Our  New  Specialty!     Mezzotints,  from  »1O  to  $2O  Each.  Life-Size   Crayons,  «35. 


'New  Household'  'New  Pacific'  'New  Home' 
It  ANO  ES. 

New  ventilated  self-basting  oven,  clean  out  in  ash 
hearth,  smooth  finely  finished  casting  with  broad  pol- 
ished edges,  are  the  best  for  coal  or  wood. 

JOHN  P.  MYEKS  &  00,,  863  Market  St. 

Catalogue  mailed  on  application. 

"New     Monarch"     Gasoline      Stove, 

With  broiler,  fuel -saving  and  safety  attachments,  are 
convenient,  economical  and  safe.   Asbestos  lined  oven, 
solid  inside,  makes  it  a  perfect  baker. 
The  trade  supplied.     Send  for  catalogue. 

JOHN    K.    MYKRS    &    CO., 

Opp.  Baldwin  Hotel.  863  Market  St.,  S.  F. 


CALL    AND     SEE 

S.M.GRUMAN 

FURNITURE,  BEDDING,  CARPETS, 

MIRRORS^    ETC, 

EITHER  NEW  or  SECOND-HAND 

For  Cash  or  on  Installments. 
WE    CAN     SAVE     YOU     MONEY. 

furniture  Bought,  Sold  and  Exchanged. 

AGENT  FOR  THE 

"New  Era!'H]ffiranlicClolliesfaslier, 

NO.  017  MARKET  ST., 
Bet.  Fifth  and  Sixth.  SAN  FRANCISCO. 


S.  J.  CRAIG. 


J.,P.  COCHRAN. 


tO.  R.  COCHRAN. 


CRAIG,  COCHRAN  &  CO., 

UNDERTAKERS  AND  EMBALMERS. 

22  and  26  Mint  Avenue,  San  Francisco,   Cal. 
All  Orders  Promptly  Attended  to.  Telephone  3O47. 


169 

Pudding. 

Made  by  boiling  salted  water  and  thickening  it  slowly  as  it  boils  with 
Indian  meal  stiff;  to  be  eaten  with  cream  or  butter  and  sugar.  Pleasant  article 
of  diet  for  an  invalid. 

Use  the  purest  and  best  in  all  things. 

Stewed  Rabbits   in   Milk. 

Two  very  young  rabbits,  not  half  grown';  one  quart  of  EWELL'S  X.  L. 
DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK  ;  one  blade  of  mace;  one  tablespoonful  of  floiir;  a 
little  salt  and  cayenne  ;  mix  the  flour  very  smoothly  with  a  little  milk.  When 
this  is  well  mixed  add  the  remainder.  Cut  up  the  rabbits  into  joints;  put 
them  into  a  stewpan  with  the  milk  and  ingredients,  and  simmer  them  gently 
until  tender;  stir  from  time  to  time  to  keep  the  milk  smooth,  and  prevent  it 
from  burning.  Half  an  hour  will  be  sufficient  for  the  cooking  of  this  dish. 

Arrowroot  Blanc-mange. 

Put  one  quart  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK  to  boil; 
take  an  ounce  of  arrowroot,  ground  fine;  make  it  a  smooth  batter  with  cold 
water;  add  a  teaspoonful  of  salt;  when  the  milk  is  boiling  hot  stir  the  batter 
into  it;  continue  to  stir  it  over  a  gentle  fire  for  four  minutes:  sweeten  to  taste 
with  double-refined  sugar  and  flavor  with  lemon  extract,  or  boil  a  stick  of  cin- 
namon in  the  milk  before  putting  in  the  arrowroot;  strain  the  blanc-mange 
through  a  muslin  into  a  mould;  when  perfectly  cold  turn  it  out;  serve  currant 
jelly  or  jam  with  it. 

The  best  milk  is  always  the  cheapest. 


Toast  (for  the  Sick). 

Take  a  couple  of  slices  of  bread  ;  toast  to  a  crisp.  Take  one  cup  of 
EWELL'S  X,  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  also  a  bit  of  butter  and  melt  in 
a  saucepan  together.  Then  dip  in  the  slices  of  toast;  let  them  soak  for  a  mo- 
ment or  two;  lift  on  to  a  deep  plate  and  pour  the  remains  of  the  milk  and 
butter  on  top.  Serve  very  hot  and  salt  to  taste. 

Arrowroot  Wine   Jelly. 

One  cup  of  boiling  water,  three  teaspoonfuls  of  arrowroot,  two  of  white 
sugar,  one  tablespoonful  brandy  or  three  of  white  wine. 

Wine   Jelly. 

One  box  of  Cox's  gelatine,  dissolved  in  one  pint  of  cold  water,  one  pint  of 
wine,  one  quart  of  boiling  water,  one  quart  of  granulated  sugar  and  four 
lemons. 

Onion  Gruel. 

Slice  down  a  few  onions  and  boil  them  in  apintof  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY 
BOTTLED  MILK;  stir  in  a  teaspoon  of  oatmeal  and  little  salt  ;  boil  until  the 
onions  are  quite  tender;  add  a  little  red  pepper.  Sup  just  before  going 
to  bed. 

Beef  Tea. 

One  pound  of  beef,  lean,  cut  into  small  pieces.  Put  into  a  jar  without 
a  drop  of  water;  cover  tightly  and  set  in  pot  of  cold  water;  heat  gradually  to  a 
boil  and  continue  this  steadily  for  three  hours  until  the  meat  is  like  a  white 
rag  and  the  juice  all  drawn  out.  Season  to  taste  with  salt,  and  when  cold 
skim. 

Milled   in  Tea  or  Coffee. 


Beat  the  yolk  of  an  egg  very  well  in  a  coffee  pot;  stir  into  it  a  little  of 
EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  CREAM;  then  pour  on  it,  stirring  it  all 
the  time;  hot  coffee  or  tea,  sufficient  to  fill  the  cup.  If  the  hot  liquid  is  poured 
in  too  hastily  the  egg  will  curdle  instead  of  mixing  with  the  tea.  Very  nour- 
ishing for  breakfast  . 


*  170 


LINDEMAN   &  SONS,         *  * 

CALENBERG  &  VAUPEL 
*       *  AND  CONNOR  PIANOS. 


Our  aim  is  to  give  you 
an  Honest  Piano  at  an 
Honest  Price. 

We  guarantee  all  our 
Pianos. 

You  will  not  regret 
having  looked  at  our 
stock  of  Pianos  and  com- 
pared-our  prices. 

Fine  Tuning  and  Re- 
pairing a  Specialty. 

Pianos  to  rent  from  $3 
per  month. 


SECOND-HAND 
STEINWAY, 

CHICKERING, 
HAZLETON, 

VOSE.&  SON, 
GEO.  M.  GUILD, 

HALLETT  &  DAVIS, 
CONNOR, 

BOWERS>  SON, 
CHRISTIE  &  SON 

— AND — 

HEMME  &  LON 

PIANOS 

CONSTANTLY  IN  STOCK. 


J.  T.  BOWERS  &  SON, 


23  &  25  FIFTH  ST., 

Near  Market  St.,  Opp.  U.  S.  Mint. 


TO  BE  SUCCESSFUL  AS 
A  COOK,  YOU  REQUIRE 

GOODfiftm  WE 

HAVEI  ini  ALL 
KINDS  UUny  AT  ALL 
PRICES,  AND  MAKE  A 
SPECIALTY  OF  FAMILY 
TRADE.  IT  WILL  PAY 
YOU  TO  SEND  US  A 
POSTAL  CARD  OR  TEL- 
EPHONE383.  WE  WANT 
YOUR  BUSINESS. 

WAINWRIGHT  &  EASTON, 

131    and   133    Folsom   Street. 


G.  D.  MAYLE, 

BAKERY-:- AND-:- CONFECTIONER'S 

COFFEE    PARL-ORS, 

•38   FOURTH 


BE  SURE  AND  GET  THE  EIGHT  PLACE, 

38 FOURTH    STREET 38 

CORNER  JESSIE   STREET. 


For  a  Good,  Home-like  Lunch,  this  is 
the    Place. 


ALL  KItfDS   OF   HOME-MADE   CAKE 
AND  BREAD. 


FAMILY  TRADE  SOLICITED. 


Down  Town  Branch:  427  Market  St. 


SEND  ORDERS  BY  TELEPHONE. 


171 

Yolk  of  Eggs. 

Take  the  yolks  of  two  eggs;  beat  well;  add  a  little  salt,  cinnamon  or  nut-< 
meg;  stir  into  this  two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  SWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED 
MILK.  Give  the  patient  a  teaspoonful  at  a  time  and  as  often  as  they  will 
take  it. 

JBccf  Tea   HTo.  2. 

Cut  half  a  pound  of  lean  fresh  beef  into  slices;  lay  it  into  a  dish  add  pour 
over  it  a  pint  of  boiling  water;  cover  the  dish  and  let  it  stand  half  an  hour  by- 
the  fire;  then  just  boil  it  up.  Pour  it  off  clear  and  salt  it  a  very  little. 

Beef  Jelly. 

Two  onions,  two  carrots,  a  few  whole  cloves,  one  teaspoonful  of  sugar, 
one  slice  of  ham,  two  calf's  feet,  one  and  a  half  pound  of  beef;  put  in  the 
onion  and  other  ingredients  in  succession;  place  the  ham  on  top,  then  the 
calf's  feet,  and  lastly  the  beef;  no  water;  put  on  the  side  of  the  range  and  let 
stand  until  reduced  to  a  soft  mass,  then  add  a  quart  of  water;  let  it  boil  for 
one  hour;  strain  and  take  off  the  fat. 

Chicken  Brotli. 

Boil  a  chicken  until  it  will  fall  from  the  bone;  then  strain,  the  broth;  let. 
it  cool  so  the  fat  will  rise,  which  must  be  taken  off;  then  warm  the  liquor;  salt, 
to  taste;  swelled  rice  or  barley  may  be  added  to  it. 

Egg  Gruel. 

Boil  eggs  from  one  to  three  hours  until  hard  enough  to  grate;  then  boil 
milk  from  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY,  and  thicken  with  the  grated  egg  and  add 
a  little  salt. 

Egg  Wine. 

One  egg,  one  and  a  half  glass  of  cold  water,  one  glass  of  sherry,  sugar  and 
grated  nutmeg  to  taste.  Beat  the  egg;  mix  with  it  a  tablespoon  of  cold  water; 
make  the  wine  and  water  hot,  but  not  boiling  ;  pour  it  on  the  egg,  stirring  it, 
all  the  time;  put  it  into  a  clean  saucepan;  set  it  on  a  gentle  fire  and  stir  the 
contents  one  way  until  they  thicken;  do  not  allow  them  to  boil.  Serve  in  a. 
glass  with  toasted  bread. 

Egg  and  S  .<-Mioci. 

Take  two  eggs;  whip  them  up  quickly;  add  sugar  to  taste;  squeeze  out  the 
juice  of  one  lemon  and  stir  into  the  egg  and  sugar. 

The  purest  and  best  milk  can  be  found  at  EWELL'S  X/  L.  DAIRY 
BOTTLED  MILK  Ranch. 

l*anada. 

Two  thick  slices  of  stale  bread  one  inch  in  thickness;  toast  them  a  nice 
brown;  cut  them  into  squares  of  two  inches  in  size;  lay  them  in  a  bowlj 
sprinkle  a  little  salt  and  one  teaspoonful  of  sugar,  oven  them  and  pour  over  a 
pint  of  boiling  water. 

Gruel. 

One  large  tablespoonful  of  fine  Indian  meal,  mixed  smooth  with  cold  water, 
and  salt  to  taste;  add  in  your  saucepan  a  pint  of  boiling  water;  stir  gently  into 
the  boiling  water  the  mixture  ;  let  it  boil  for  nearly  an  hour  ;  stir  frequently, 
and  thin  with  boiling  water  if  becoming  too  thick;  when  dohe  serve  with  sugar 
and  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK. 

Ground  Rice   Gruel. 

Boil  two  spoonfuls  of  ground  rice,  rubbed  down  smooth,  with  one  pint 
and  a  half  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  a  bit  of  cinnamon, 
and  lemon  peel,  and  when  nearly  done  sweeten  to  taste. 

USE   EWEUL'S   X.   t,.    I> AIBSV   BOTTLEI>  HULK, 

PUREST    AND    BEST   IN   THE   WORLD. 


172 


UPTURE 


•*  »B.  PIEBCE'S 
MAGNETIC  ELASTIC 

"TBUSST'Only  Electric  Truss 

.  .„  the  world.  No  Iron  Hoops  or  Steel 
Springs !  Easy  to  wear.  This  celebrated 
Truss  has  radically  cured  thousand^ 
of  patients.  Estab.  1875.  Perfect  fitting  trusses 
sent  to  all  parts  of  the  world.  B®-For  descriptive 
Pamphlet  No.  1  and  blank  for  self-measurement,  send 
stamp  to  the  Magnetic  Elastic  Truss  Co,,  7O4 
Sacramento  St.,  San  Francisco,  Cal.  tK^-Trusses  fitted 
personally  at  ths  above  address,without  extra  charge' 

ARE  YOU  ILL? 

»r.  Pleree's  Belt  is 

the  only  perfect  Electrio 
Boely-Battery.  It  will 

positively  cure  Nervous 
Diseases,  Rheumatism, 
Lame  Back,  Impotency, 
Kidney  Complaint,  Dys- 
pepsia. Male  and  FemaleWeakness.  Thousan  ds  cured. 
Electric  Suspensory  for  Men,  free  with  everyBelt. 
a®-  Send  stamp  for  Pamphlet  No.  2.  Address  ,M.E. 
Truss  Co.,  704  Sacramento  St.,  San  Francisco,  Cal. 
Caution—Beware  of  peddlers  selling  inferior  goods. 


i-il!is«5 


Oetl 


TERRY&CO 


-a 


,  STOVES, 

H^N"r>, 

WE  CAN  SAVE  YOU  MONEY. 


EITHEK, 


OPt    SECON3D 


747 


If  you  wish  to  sell  Furniture  we  pay  Cash. 

MARKET   ST.,  Opp,  Dupont, 


S.F 


• 


Excuse  for  Poor  ISread  wlirn  you  buy 


SAN  FRANCISCO  OFFICE  22  CALIFORNIA ST 


173 

Oat-Meal  €Jruel. 

One  large  tablespoonful  of  oat-meal,  mixed  smoothly  with  cold  water  and  a. 
saltspoon  of  salt;  pour  upon  this  a  pint  of  boiling  water  ;  turn  into  a  saucepan 
and  boil  slowly  for  nearly  an  hour;  stir  it  frequently;  add  a  half  cup  of  raisins:^ 
when  done  serve  with  sugar  and  E WELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  CREAM. 

Buttermilk   Pap. 

Buttermilk,  four  parts;  water,  one  part;  mix,  boil  and  thicken  with  Indian 
meal  thin  enough  to  drink. 

Milk  and  buttermilk  are  both  good  drinks  where  they  are  agreeable. 

Barley    Water. 

Take  a  tablespoonful  of  ground  barley;  mix  it  with  a  little  cold  water;  add[ 
one  pint  of  boiling  water;  boil  a  few  minuts  and  sweeten.  This  drink  is  very- 
soothing  and  strengthening. 

Raspberry   Vinegar. 

To  four  quarts  red  raspberries  put  enough  vinegar  to  cover,  and  let  them, 
stand  24  hours;  scald  and  strain  it;  add  a  pound  of  sugar  to  one  pint  of  juice; 
boil  it  20  minutes  and  bottle  it;  it  is  then  ready  for  use  and  will  keep  for  years. 
To  one  glass  of  water  add  a  great  spoonful.  « 

Apple  YTater. 

Two  large  juicy  apples,  three  cups  of  cold  water,  one  quart  if  the  apples, 
are  very  large;  cut  the  apples  in  quarters;  do  not  pare  or  core  them;  put  it  on 
the  fire  in  a  porcelain  saucepan  with  the  water,  and  boil,  closely  covered  until 
the  apples  stew  to  pieces;  strain  the  liquor  at  once,  pressing  the  apple  hard  in, 
the  cloth.  Sweeten  with  white  sugar,  iced  for  drinking. 

Nothing  better  for  children  than  the  BOTTLED  MILK  from  E  WELL'S 
Ranch.  Purest  and  best, 

Alum  Whey. 

One  pint  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  one  teaspoonful 
alum;  boil  together  and  strain  to  separate  the  curd. 

Mustard   Whey. 

Bruised  mustard  seed,  one  tablespoonful;  one  pint  of  EWELL'S  X.  L. 
DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK  :  boil  together  for  a  few  minutes  and  separate  the 
curd.  This  has  been  found  a  useful  drink  in  dropsy.  A  teacupful  at  a  time. 

Tartar    Whey. 

One  quart  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK;  one  dessertspoon- 
fal  cream  of  tartar;  boil  and  separate  the  curd. 

Suet  Ptisan. 

Two  ounces  of  sheep's  suet,  one  pint  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED- 
MILK;  teaspoonful  of  starch;  boil  slowly  for  half  an  hour.  This  may  be  used 
as  a  common  drink  in  dysentry.  Good  for  infants. 

French   Milk  Porridge. 

Stir  some  oatmeal  and  water  together  ;  let  it  stand  till  the  next  day,  stir- 
ring occasionally:  strain  through  a  fine  sieve,  and  boil  the  water,  adding  ona 
pint  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK  while  soloing;  the  pro- 
portion  of  water  must  be  small  with  toast.  This  is  a  good  drink  for  weak 
persons. 

X.  I,  DAIRY    liOTT •,•<:•> 

PUREST  AND  BEST  IN  THE  WORLD. 


174 

Improved  Cooking  Utensils  Our  Specialty. 

TRY  OUR 

GEM  of  all  STOVE  POLISH 

BEATS   THEM   ALL,! 

No  Dust!     No  Odor!     No  Labor, 
and  no  Brushing;! 

Ask  your  grocer  for  it,  and  take  no  other. 

A  Perfect  Odorless  Fry-Pan, 
Broiler  and  Toaster  All  in  One. 

NOVEL.TY    HARDWARE    COMPANY, 

(CHOWN    &    WRIGHT,  Proprietors.) 

1433  MARKET  STREET,  BETWEEN  10th  and  llthl 


o* 


'Q 

O 


Its  Iron    is  a  Tonic:    its  Soda  and      III    Ft    IJJ   ft       N0  Other  Water  is  SO 

Magnesia  are  Corrections  to  a  Sour      I  II   f«§   I        f«a 

or  Disordered  Stomach.  Appetizing. 

It  will  Positively  Cure  Dyspepsia  if  used  in 
sufficient    quantities. 

No  Table  is  Complete  Without 

HOOVER  &  PRICE 

FINE  CONFECTIONS. 

Parties,  Receptions  and  Banquets  Supplied  with  Choice  Candies 
and  Ice  Creams. 

N.  W.  COR.  POLK  AND  BUSH  STREETS. 

UpllTED  pTATE^  LADIDIpf 

HALL  &  FERGUSON,  Proprietors, 

LAUNDRY,   SIXTEENTH  STREET,   NEAR  VALENCIA. 

MAIN  OFFICE:  BRANCH  OFFICES: 

53  THIRD  ST., 

12   SIXTH    STREET.  i»i  MHDBSDORFF  ST., 

16tli  ST.,  Near  Valencia. 

TELEPHONES: 

Main  Office,  3420.  Laundry,  3418. 


175 

Cure  Dyspepsia. 

One-half  an  ounce  each  of  pepsin  and  bismuth,  one-quarter  of  an  ounce 
cubebs,  and  two  and  a  half  grains  lime ;  mix  well  and  take  a  pinch  of  the 
powder  fifteen  minutes  after  each  meal. 

Fever  and  Ague. 

Four  ounces  galangal  root  in  a  quart  of  gin,  steeped  in  a  warm  place, 
add  tablespoonful  of  red  pepper;  take  often. 

To  Stop  Bleeding. 

A  handful  of  flour  bound  on  the  cut. 

To  Cure  the  Sting  of  a  Wasp. 

Mix  common  earth  with  water  to  about  the  consistency  of  mud;  apply  at 
once. 

A  Good  Cure  for  Colds. 

Boil  one  large  tablespoonful  of  flaxseed  in  one  quart  of  water;  strain  and 
add  two  ounces  of  rock  candy,  one-half  pint  whiskey,  juice  of  two  lemons; 
mix  and  let  them  all  boil  well;  let  cool  and  bottle;  drink  one  cup  before  going 
to  bed;  the  hotter  you  drink  it  the  better. 

A  Gargle  for  Sore  Throats. 

Equal  parts  of  borax  and  alum,  dissolved  in  water,  to  be  used  frequently. 
For  Sore  Throat*. 

Cut  slices  of  salt  pork;  simmer  a  few  minutes  in  hot  vinegar,  and  apply 
to  the  throat  as  hot  as  possible. 

SWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  corner  of  Folsom  and 
Twenty-first  streets. 

For  Constipation. 

A  spoon  of  wheatenbran  in  a  glass  of  water  taken  in  the  morning;  a 
sinjple  remedy  and  effective. 

Earache. 

Take  a  bit  of  cotton  batting,  put  upon  it  a  pinch  of  black  pepper,  gather 
it  up  and  dip  it  into  sweet  oil  and  insert  into  the  ear;  put  a  flannel  bandage 
on  the  head  to  keep  it  warm;  it  will  give  immediate  relief. 

For  a  Boil. 

The  skin  of  a  boiled  egg  is  the  most  efficacious  remedy  that  can  be  ap- 
plied to  a  boil;  peel  it  carefully,  wet  and  apply  to  the  part  affected;  it  will 
draw  out  the  matter  and  relieve  the  soreness  in  a  few  hours. 

For  a  Caked  Breast- 
Bake  two  large  potatoes,  put  them  in  a  woollen  bag;  crush  them  soft  and 
apply  to  the  breast  as  hot  as  can  be  borne;  repeat  constantly  till  relieved. 

Chapped  Hands. 

Powdered  starch  is  an  excellent  preventive,  rubbing  it  over  your  hands 
after  washing  and  drying  them  thoroughly. 

Relief  for  Asthma. 

Get  a  muskrat  skin  and  wear  it  over  your  lungs,  with  the  fur  side  next 
to  the  body. 

E  WELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED 

PUREST  AND  BEST  IN  THE  WORLD. 


176 


10 

&orif 

NEW 


?    AWARDED 

THE  ONLY 


AT  THE 


Do    not   fail    to    Examine    these 

Machines  Before  Purchasing, 

as  they  stand  to-day 

without  an  equal 
IN  SIMPLICITY,  PERFECTION,. 

AND 

SUPERIOR   MECHANISM. 

OUR  HIGH  ARM  No.  12, 

Has  been  conceded  by  all  who  have  tested  it  to  be  the  best 
machine  in  the  market  for  all  manufacturing  purposes. 

All-  machines  repaired  at  short  notice  and  rented  on  reas- 
onable terms. 

A  full  line  of  machine  supplies  for  sale. 


ALSO,    AGENTS    FOR 

CQeCall's  Glove  pitting  Patterns 


Main  Office,  1368  Market  Street.  8.  F. 


177 

For  Hoarseness. 

Squeeze  the  juice  of  one  lemon  in  a  pint  bowl,  add  two  tablespoonfuls  loaf 
sugar,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  glycerine,  and  one  full  of  whiskey  ;  pour  over 
this  boiling  hot  water  to  fill  the  bowl,  and  drink  hot  before  going  to  bed. 

Healing  Lotion. 

One  ounce  glycerine,  two  ounces  rose  water,  five  drops  carbolic  acid;  ex- 
cellent for  sore  lips  and  gums. 

For  Neuralgia. 

The  leaves  of  the  common  field  thistle;  bruise  the  leaves  and  use  as  a 
poultice  on  the  part  affected;  while  a  quantity  of  the  same  is  boiled'  add  a 
little  sugar  and  whiskey;  take  a  small  wine  glass  of  -the  decoction  "before 
each  meal. 

For  Headache. 

Pour  a  few  drops  of  ether  on  one-half  ounce  of  gum  camphor  and  pul- 
verize; add  to  this  twenty  drops  of  peppermint  ;mix  and  put  in  Jan 
open-mouthed  bottle  and  cork  well. 


Cure  for  a  Bee 

Apply  slices  of  raw  onions;  gives  sure  relief. 

Cure  for  Summer  Complaint. 

Two  ounces  tincture  of  rhubarb,  one  of  paregoric,  ^one-half  of  essence 
of  peppermint,  one-half  essence  of  annis,  one-half  of  prepared  chalk. 
Dose  for  adults,  one  teaspoonful  in  a  little  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK 
boiled,  taken  every  three  hours. 

For  Consumptives. 

One-half  pound  fine  cut  beef,  one  tablespoonful  of  pulverized  charcoal, 
four  ounces  of  pulverized  sugar,  one  pint  of  rye  whiskey,  |one  pint  of  boil- 
ing water,  one  pound  of  raisins;  mix  all  together;  stand  in.^a  cool  place;  take 
two  spoonfuls  before  eating.  C/..A 

To  Cure  a  Cold. 

One  pint  of  boiling  water;  sugar  to  taste;  add  one-halfiVcup  of  j  *good 
whiskey;  stir  well  and  drop  in  a  bit  of  camphor  about  the^bize  of  a-Jpea; 
drink  on  retiring. 

Cure  for  Catarrh* 

Dry  thoroughly  three  tablespoonfuls  of  table  salt;  rub  smooth,  add  five 
drops  of  the  oil  of  cinnamon,  mix  well,  keep  in  a  dry  place;  take  as  snuff 
morning  and  night. 

For  Toothache. 

Of  powdered  alum,  salaratus  and  fine  sa,lt  equal  quantities;  apply  to  the 
tooth  and  it  will  give  relief. 

Cold  on  the  Chest. 

A  flannel  dipped  in  boiling  water  and  sprinkled  with  turpentine,  laid  on 
the  chest,  gives  immediate  relief. 

Cure  for  Croup. 

Grate  one  teaspoonful  of  alum;  mix  with  it  two  teaspoonfuls  of  sugar  to 
make  it  palatable;  administer  little  at  a  time  but  often,  every  ten  .minutes 
until  you  get  relief;  also  rub  on  the  throat  and  chest  a  mixture  of  sweet  oil 
and  turpentine,  equal  quantities;  cover  with  red  flannel. 

Orders  left  at  2460  Folsom  street  for  BOTTLED  MILK. 


178 


Don't  Give  Up! 

Read  a  Few  Lines  of  Good  Advice. 
It  May  Save  Your  Life. 


I  arn  broken  down  and  discouraged,  and 
don't  know  just  what  to  do  for  my  health. 
This  remark  we  often  hear  from  both  men  and 
women  that  are  positively  in  that  condition 
that  life  is  no  longer  to  them  a  pleasure,  but 
instead  a  continual  bore.  THE  GREAT  SI- 
ERRA KIDNEY  AND  LITER  CURE  is  es- 
pecially adapted  for  just  such  cases.  It  acts 
gently  on  the  bowels,  purifies  the  blood  with- 
out unsightly  blotches,  renovates  the  kidneys 
and  liver,  the  great  organs  of  existence  that 
must  be  kept  clear.  By  thus  doing  its  work 
it  brings  the  nervous  system  into  a  healthy 
condition,  producing  sound  and  refreshing 
sleep.  For  all  female  complaints,  leucorrhea, 
suppressed  menses,  no  matter  from  what 
cause,  attended  by  severe  pain,  and  all  other 
complaints  so  common  among  women,  it  im- 
mediatel}7  relieves  and  effects  a  permanent 
cure.  Put  aside  all  prejudice  and  give  this 
most  wonderful  and  best  of  all  remedies  a 
trial.  Warranted  purely  vegetable.  Delight- 
ful to  the  taste.  For  sale  by  all  druggists. 
Take  no  other. 


z     • 

< 

G.  I{.  JflJlSI 

$  &  GO. 

H 

fc      &      o     Z 

>     N    0 

^        >      ^     Q 

H    fa   j 

EMPLOYMENT 

AGENCY, 

?  0  c 

o  a  :  s 

110  GEARY 

STREET. 

§  »  ^ 

^          s 

K   j> 

fc      2 

M 

Telephone  No.  485. 

San  Francisco. 

2 

ReAvaril  —  Free     Advice     in     all     I.e^al     Iflsi  1  tors. 


Kearny  St.  ,  Rooms  7, 


,SVm  Francisco,  Cal. 


PROBATE,  DIVORCES,  INSOLVENCY,  A  SPECIALTY. 

Damages,  Wages,  Claims,    Collections,  etc.,  promptly  enforced.     Deeds   and 

all  Legal  Documents  Carefully  Drawn. 

Responsible  Criminal  and  Civil  Attorneys  of  eminence  and  repute  practising  in  all  courts. 
If  in  trouble  call.     All  suits  pushed  vigorously.    Satisfaction  assured.     Terms  liberal. 

Bad  Tenants  Ejected  for  £4. 

Consultation  strictly  confidential.     Correspondence  solicited. 

flg'NO     CHARGE     UNLESS     SUCCESSFUL. 


179 

Cough  Jlixture. 

Take  one  cup  of  molasses  and  add  two  tablespoonfuls  of  vinegar;  simmer 
this  over  the  fire;  when  taken  off  add  three  teaspoonfuls  of  paregoric  and  as 
much  refined  nitre  as  can  be  put  upon  the  point  of  a  small  knife;  of  this  mix- 
ture take  two  teaspoonfuls  on  going  to  bed  and  a  little  during  the  day  when 
you  have  a  disposition  to  cough. 

I 
To  keep  Water  Cool. 

Water  may  be  kept  nearly  as  cold  as  ice  water  by  surrounding  the  jar 
with  several  folds  of  coarse  cotton,  to  be  kept  constantly  wet;  the  evaporation 
carries  off  the  heat  inside  and  it  will  be  reduced  almost  to  freezing. 

Yeast  Cakes. 

Put  into'three  pints  of  water  a  handful  of  hops  and  nearly  a  quart  of 
pared  potatoes,  cut  in  small  pieces,  boil  for  half  an  hour  and  strain  while 
scalding  hot  into  sufficient  flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter;  stir  it  well;  add  one 
tablespoonful  of  fresh  yeast  and  set  in  a  warm  place  to  rise;  when  light  mix 
it  stiff  with  Indian  meal;  roll  out  thin  and  cut  into  round  cakes;  dry  these 
thoroughly  and  keep  them  in  a  bag  in  a  dry  place;  they  will  remain  good  for 
months. 

Tea  Kettles. 

To  prevent  rust :  Keep  an  oyster  shell  in  your  tea  kettle,  by  attracting 
the  stony  particles  to}itself  it  will  prevent  the  formation  of  a  crust. 

Catarrh  Sim  11*. 

Scotch  snuff,  one  ounce  ;  chloride  of  lime  dried  and  pulverized  rounding, 
teaspoonful ;  mix  and  bottle,  corking  tightly. 

Powder  for  the  Complexion. 

Take  pearl]  or  bismuth ;  white  and  French  chalk,  equal  parts ;  reduce 
them  to  a  fine  powder  and  sift  through  a  lawn. 

Remedy  for  Rheumatism. 

Gum  guaiacum,  one  ounce,  rhubarb  in  powder,  two  drachms,  four  of 
sulphur,  two  ounces  of  cream  of  tartar,  one  ounce  ginger  powder  ;  made  into 
a  liquid  by  pouring  over  one  pint  ot  water  and  one  pint  of  whiskey  ;  take  a 
teaspoonful  three  times'a  day. 

Tooth  Powder. 

Powdered  charcoal  and  white  sugar,  each  one  ounce  ;  Peruvian  bark, 
one-half  ounce  ;  cream*of  tartar,  one  and  one-half  drachms  ;  carnella,  twenty- 
four  grains  ;  rubjihenr  well  together  and  sift  through  netting. 

Good  Liniment. 

Add  to  one  pint  of  sweet  oil  two  tablespoonfuls  of  tincture  of  arnica ; 
good  for  wounds,  stiff  joints  and  other  injuries. 

Balm  of  Beauty. 

Soft  water,  one  quart ;  pulverized  castile  soap,  four  ounces  ;  emulsion  of 
bitter  almonds,  six  ounces  ;  rose  and  orange  water,  of  each  eight  ounces ; 
tincture  of  benzoin,  twoMrachms  ;  borax,  one  drachm  ;  apply  to  the  face  with 
linen  cloth. 

USE   EWEL-L'S   X.   L.    DAIRY   BOTTLED  UIMLK, 

PUREST   AND   BEST   IN   THE  WORLD. 


180 

¥ EST  COASHDRNITDRE  CO. 

The  Oldest,  largest  and  Most  Reliable  Manufacturing 
Establishment  on  the  Pacific  Coast,  where  you  can  have  any 
article  of 

HOUSEHOLD    FURNITURE, 

OFFICE  AND  BANK  FITTINGS, 

Made  to  order  for  less  money  and  in  less  time  than  at  any  other 
house  of  the  kind. 

Where  you  will  find  the  largest  and  most  elegant  assort- 
ment of  Wooden  Mantels,  of  Mahogany,  Oak,  Walnut, 
Ash,  Cherry,  Maple  and  Curly  Red  Wood,  from  $1O  each, 
upwards  into  the  hundreds. 

We  make  the  best  Bedding;  and  the  Finest  Upholst- 
ery, at  from  20  to  30  per  cent,  less  than  any  of  the  down  town 
stores,  where  the  enormous  rents  make  it  necessary  to  charge 
immense  profits.  We  have  no  rent  to  pay,  and  our  customers 
get  the  benefit  of  it. 

Be  sure  to  call  and  convince  yourself  before  pur- 
chasing elsewhere. 


THE    LARGEST   AND    FINEST    STOCK    OF 


FURNITURE,  BEDDING,  UPHOLSTERY,. 

-  AND  - 

WOODEN     MANTELS 

In  this  city,  constantly  on  hand  and  in  process  of  manufacture. 

The  newest  and  latest  Eastern  novelties  constantly  arriving. 

Hvery  article  of  our  manufacture  warranted,  and  satisfaction 
guaranteed.  _ 

L  &  E.  EMANUEL,  Proprietors, 


<Ss    -3:3^ 

SAN     KRANC1SCO. 


181 

For  Dyspeptics. 

Take  a  piece  of  stale  wheat  bread  and  a  little  white  sugar,  and  cover 
"with  boiling  water,  then  cover  with  a  plate  for  a  short  time ;  add  two  table- 
spoonfuls  ot  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  CREAM.  This  dish  rests 
easy  on  the  stomach.  Both  food  and  drink  should  be  taken  rather  cool  and 
slowly,  otherwise  they  relax  and  weaken  the  stomach. 

Milk  and  Soda  Water. 

Heat  nearly  to  "boiling  a  small  cup  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY 
BOTTLED  MILK  ;  dissolve  in  it  a  teaspoonful  of  refined  sugar;  put  this  into 
a  large  tumbler  and  fill  with  soda  water.  This  is  an  excellent  mode  of 
taking  milk  when  the  stomach  is  charged  with  acid  and  is  oppressed  by  milk 
alone. 

Sweet  Whey. 

™Skim  two  quarts  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  a 
piece  of  prepared  calf's  rennet;  mix  and  put  in  a  warm  place  till  coagulation 
takes  place;  then  strain. 

Orange  Whey. 

One  pint  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  the  juice  of  one 
orange  with  a  portion  of  the  peel;  boil  the  milk  ;  then  put  the  orange  into  it 
and  let  it  stand  tillcoagulatioii  takes  plaoe  ;  strain. 

Try  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK. 

Whey  with  Tamarinds. 

R», -One^pint  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  tamarinds 
'two  ounces;  boil  them  together  until  coagulation  takes  place;  strain. 

Coffee  Milk. 

Boil  a  dessertspoonful  of  ground  coffee  in  a  pint  of  EWELL'S  X.  L. 
DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK  fora  quarter  of  an  hour,  then  put  into  it  a  shaving 
of  isinglass  and  clear^it;  let  it  boil  a  few  minutes,  and  set  it  beside  the  fire  to 
clarify;  sweeten  with^loaf  sugar. 

Nutritive  Fluid. 

Take  two  teaspoonfuls  of  lump  magnesia,  one  teaspoonful  of  salaratus, 
one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  two  of  flour,  half  a  pint  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY 
BOTTLED  MILK,  and  one  pint  of  water;  put  the  milk  and  water  united 
over  the  fire;  rub  up  the  flour  with  a  little  cold  water  to  make  a  thin  paste; 
just  when  the  milk  and  water  begins  to  boil  stir  in  the  paste;  this  will  make 
a  thin  porridge,  which  should  boil  about  five  minutes;  then  pour  into  a 
pitcher;  now  add  the'magnesia,  salaratus,  salt  and  sugar  rubbed  together; 
sweeten  to*taste. 

Chicken  Water. 

Take  half  a  chicken,  divest  it  of  all  fat,  and  break  the  bones ;  add  to 
this  half  >  gallon  of^water,  and  boil  for  half  an  hour;  season  with  salt. 

Ground  Rice  Milk. 

Take  one  pint  of  EWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK,  add  one 
spoonful  of  ground  rice,  a  little  cinnamon  or  nutmeg;  sweeten  when  nearly 
done, 

USE   THE   BEST  OF   EVERYTHING, 

THE  BEST  IS  THE  CHEAPEST. 


182 

Terry  &  Co.,  the  well-known  furniture  dealers,  have  their 
advertisement  on  page  172,  and  claim  to  be  able  to  make  it 
profitable  for  any  one  to  call  and  see  them,  to  either  buy  or  sell 
furniture,  carpets,  stoves,  etc. 

On  page  164  vvill  be  found  the  advertisement  of  Messrs. 
Naber,  Alfs  &  Brune,  wholesale  liquor  merchants  and  sole 
agents  for  the  celebrated  brand  of  whisky  known  as  ' '  Phoenix 
Old  Bourbon, ' '  also  sole  agents  for  the  great  Mexican  remedy 
known  as  "  Damiana  Bitters." 

On  page  166  is  the  advertisement  of  ' '  The  Evening  Bulletin, ' '' 
noted  as  the  best  family  newspaper  on  the  Pacific  Coast.  Its. 
weekly  and  semi- weekly  are  too  well  known  to  require 
mention. 

On  page  170  is  the  advertisement  of  J.  T.  Bowers  &  Son,, 
agents  for  Lindeman  &  Sons,  Calenberg  &  Vaupel,  and  Con- 
nor pianos  ;  also  dealers  in  second-hand  pianos  of  all  makes. 

On  page  1 70  is  also  the  advertisement  of  Wainwright  & 
Hasten,  dealers  in  coal,  who  make  a  specialty  of  family  trade. 

On  page  170  is  also  the  advertisement  of  G.  D.  Mayle's 
coffee  parlors,  bakery  and  confections,  where  a  good  home- 
like lunch  can  be  had.  Family  trade  solicited. 

On  page  172  is  the  advertisement  of  Dr.  Pierce' s  magnetic 
elastic  truss  and  Dr.  Pierce' s  galvanic  chain  belt,  also  his 
galena  applier  for  piles. 

On  page  172  is  the  advertisement  of  Sperry  &  Co.,  manu- 
facturers of  the  well-known  brand  of  family  flour  known  as 
Sperry 's  new  process  patent  roller  flour. 

Deposit  Your  Savings  with  Peoples'  Home  Savings  Bank. 


183 

On  page  174  will  be  found  the  advertisement  of  the  Novelty 
Hardware  Company,  with  a  list  of  articles  of  daily  use  in  the 
kitchen  of  all  well-regulated  families  almost  too  numerous  to 
mention,  to  read  a  description  of  which  is  calculated  to  make 
one's  mouth  water  in  anticipation  of  the  good  things  that  can 
be  performed  with  ease  by  using  their  new  patents.  Prominent 
among  them  is  their  odorless  fry  pan,  broiler  and  toaster,  by 
the  use  of  which  even  the  delicious  fragrance  of  onions  is  wafted 
on  balmy  breezes,  not  into  the  room,  but  up  the  chimney  ; 
their  odorless  and  self-basting  broiler,  equally  suited  to  broiling 
or  toasting  over  gas,  oil,  gasoline,  wood  or  coal  fires,  avoiding 
all  smoke  or  vapors. 

Also  on  page  174  is  the  advertisement  of  Jackson's  Napa 
Soda,  that  well-known  and  popular  ' '  prince  of  table  waters, ' ' 
so  well  known  on  this  coast  that  comment  is  superfluous. 

Also  on  page  174  is  the  advertisement  of  Hoover  &  Price, 
confectioners  and  caterers  to  parties,  receptions  and  banquets. 

Also  on  page  1 74  is  the  advertisement  of  the  United  States 
Laundry  Association,  Hall  &  Ferguson,  proprietors. 

On  page  176  is  the  advertisement  of  the  agent's  (Wheeler  & 
Wilson's)  new  high-arm  sewing  machines,  Nos.  9  and  12,  also 
for  McCall's  glove-fitting  patterns. 

On  page  178  is  the  advertisement  of  G.  W.  Howe.  Free 
advice  in  all  legal  matters. 

On  page  178  is  the  advertisement  of  C.  R.  Hansen  &  Co., 
the  well-known  employment  agency  of  many  years'  standing. 

Don't  fail  to  read  the  advertisement  of  the  GREAT  SIERRA 
KIDNEY  AND  LIVER  CURE  on  page  178.  It  may  save 
your  life. 

Peoples  Home  Savings  Bank  Pays  Interest  from  Bate  of  Deposit. 


184 

On  page  180  the  West  Coast  Furniture  Company  have  their 
advertisement,  claiming  to  have  the  largest  stock  of  furniture, 
both  Kastern  and  their  own  manufacture,  on  the  coast,  and 
that,  as  they  have  no  rent  to  pa}^,  they  give  their  patrons  the 
benefit  of  from  20  to  30  per  cent,  in  prices.  The  only  trouble 
one  has  to  take  to  see  their  elegant  display  is  to  get  on  to  the 
Fourth-street  cars  and  ride  a  few  blocks  from  the  main  lines  of 
customary  promenade,  and  save  this  great  difference  in  prices. 

On  page  1 86  "Radam's  Microbe  Killer"  have  their  adver- 
tisement. A  reference  to  this  page  is  necessary  to  fully  under- 
stand the  wonderful  virtues  claimed  for  it. 

On  page  186  is  the  advertisement  of  the  Pacific  Electric  Belt 
and  Truss  Company,  also  Holbrook's  electric  catarrh  curet  who 
agree  to  furnish  testimonials  from  all  parts  of  the  country  on 
application. 

On  page  186  the  advertisement  of  the  Knabe  pianos  will  be 
found,  A.  L-  Bancroft  &  Co.  agents  for  the  Pacific  Coast.  This 
firm  also  handles  the  Haine's  Bros,  pianos  and  Harrington  and 
Gilbert  instruments. 

On  page  188  the  advertisement  of  that  great  "home  produc- 
tion, ' '  the  celebrated  Hemme  &  Long  piano,  will  be  found. 
J.  B.  Curtis  manager. 

On  page  188  the  advertisement  of  Starr  &  Co.'s  best  roller- 
made  choice  family  flour  appears.  For  sale  by  Rathjen  Bros. 

On  page  192  the  advertisement  of  the  C.  C.  Liniment  Co. 
appears,  claimed  to  be  the  ' '  great  pain  conqueror  ' '  for  man 
and  beast,  a  reference  to  which  will  prove  of  interest  to  the 
afflicted.  For  sale  by  all  druggists. 

See  the  Battle  of  Oettyshnrg  at  Market  and  Tenth  Sts. 


185 


The  above  cut  of  the  "Blind  Goddess  of  Justice  "  is  the  best 
exemplification  of  the  policy  pursued  by  the  EWELL  X.  L- 
DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK  CO.  towards  their  customers 
that  could  be  found,  as  there  is  positively  no  possibility  of  one 
getting  any  better  milk  than  another.  Their  policy  of  bottling 
milk  warm  from  the  cow  precludes  the  possibility  of  any  selec- 
tion. As  the  milk  is  brought  in  from  each  string  of  milkers 
every  few  minutes,  put  through  the  same  strainer,  and  the 
bottling  process  constantly  going  on,  it  is  evident  that  there 
can  be  no  choice,  every  bottle  containing  the  average  of  their 
daily  product.  Their  employees  are  often  importuned  to  "be 
sure  and  serve  us  your  best  -milk. ' '  By  this  system  there  is  abso- 
lutely no  such  thing  as  best,  all  are  served  exactly  alike  and  at 
the  same  price.  The  family  taking  ten  quarts  per  day  pays  ten 
cents  per  quart  for  each  and  every  quart  bottle,  and  has  no 
preference  over  the  family  taking  a  single  quart  bottle  per  day. 
A  short  trial  will  convince  anyone  that  their  milk  is  uniform  in 
quality  and  cannot  possibly  vary.  When  you  get  the  E WELL'S 
X.  L.  BOTTLED  MILK,  you  get  the  best  that  can  possibly 
be  produced. 

Occasionally  a  new  patron  of  the  E  WELL'S  X.  L-  DAIRY 
BOTTLED  MILK  CO.  complain  that  their  milk  has  a  peculiar 
taste.  This  is  because  they  are  not  used  to  milk  so  thick,  and 
by  using  a  sufficient  quantity  of  water  they  will  find  the  taste 
such  as  they  have  been  accustomed  to. 


186 


GERM,  BACTERIA  &  FUNGUS  DESTROYER 


PEOPERLY    DIGESTED    FOOD 
MAKES  PURE  BLOOD. 


Killer 


Causes  perfect  digestion  by  furnishing 
the  gastric  juices  needed. 

A  Perfect  Blood  Purifier 

Has  cured  more  people,  in  the  same 
time,  at  less  expense,  than  any 
other  Remedy. 

Stands  at  the  Head  ! 


If  you  are  Sick  it  -will 
Cure  you. 

Everybody  should  read  our  Pamphlet  (sent  free)  explaining  the  Theory  of 
DISEASE,  ITS  CAUSE  AND  CURE. 

RADAM'S  MICROBE  KILLER  GO, 

1332  Market  St.,  opp.  Odd  Fellow*  Hall. 

NO     IMITATIONS. 


isll   Si  a 


II 


cs  s 

.a  8 


il 


si 


\Js  e-1 

i  o=  o> 

:-^ 
;^ 

ll- 

111 


1      0^5 
5       ^»B 

I  sis 

i  .^gS 

spll 

?3o^  *  3 

I'd  s^co^1'0 
!  a--  3^^^ 

!li^!l 


I      O 


2  2 


fe-.-r     I1P& 


gs,  c'S 

lilt8 

S^iq^1? 

I^®5 

Bg3g^ 

-sg^-8^ 

fift    .£•§ 


§^« 
^  o  gO 

Sils  • 
.tllgi 

»cq  s  iw-S 

o S  g  2    -co 

lWb,§^^ 

»k>   C    bC     .    O 
•g^X   ^ft, 

ris  s 


3:: 

1,- 

•s5 
* 


gSa      gas       So  -3 

S3"X        «   >   c3         S& 


•=o 


l*rf  *•« 


§    is 

I  § 


r  M. 


a  o 


05        C^^; 


C  05  Ci  . 

i^^ 


. 

tt   O 


§      =~     r-     ? 


g 


187 


Index — Reading  Ulatter. 


History  of  the  Business 3,  4 

Analysis  by  Wm.  T.  Wenzel  &  Co 4,  38 

Milk  for  Young  and  Old,  etc 5,  18,  24 

An  Interesting  Letter  and  Analysis  of  Milk 32 

Pure  Milk  and  How  to  Test  It 40,  48 

Progress  of  the  Business 56,  62 

Ball  of  the  Bottles 70,  76,  78,  82 

The  Milk  Route,  copied  from  the  "Chronicle" 86,  90,  94,  100 

Best  System  of  Delivering  Milk 104,  106,  110,  112,  114,  118 

Contrast  Why  SWELL'S  X.  L.  DAIRY  BOTTLED  MILK 

must  be  a  Superior  Article 120,  122,  124,  126,  128,  130 

Powdered  Milk 134 

W.  F.  McAllister,  M.  D 136 

Feed  versus  Breed 138,  142,  146,  150 

Dr.  C.  G.  Toland 160 

Editorial  Notices 62,  66,  82,  118,  130,  162,  182,  183,  184 

Blind  Justice .  .  


BATTLE   OF  OEXTYSmJKG   PANORAMA  IS  ORAUTI* 


188 


Patronize  Home  Manufacture 


&   LONft 
PIANO  CO., 

—  MANUFACTURERS  OF  THE  — 

1IKJI  WE    &   tONG 
PIANO. 

FACTORY: 
1643    POLK    ST.,  Cor.    Clay. 


Tuning  and  Repairing  a  Specialty. 


Pianos  sold  on  easy  Monthly  In- 
stallments. 


J,     B.    CURTIS,   Manager, 


735  market  St. 


San  pfaneiseo. 


EGBERT  HUSBAND.  PEYTON  H.  BROOKS 

HUSBAND  &  BROOKS, 


WHOLESALE  DEALERS  IN 


FOREIGN  AH  DOMESTIC  COALS 


Agents  for  Seattle  Coal  and  Iron  Co. 


Office:     1O1  to  107  Mission,  cor.  Spear. 
Yards  :    14,  16  and  133  and  134  Spear  St. 


AAAAAAAAAAAAAA 


BEST 
QUALITY 
FLOUR. 

V  V  Y  V  V  V  V  V  V  VV  V  V  V 

F-OR     SALE     BY 


CHOICE  EXTRA 
STARR  XC? , 
16  CALIFQRNIAST: 

SAN  FRANCISCO. 


AAAAAAAAAAAAAA 
THE 

CHEAPEST 

FIRST-CLASS 
FLOUR. 

VVVVVVVVVVWVV 
BROS. 


189 
Index — Advertisements. 

Pacific  Bank 6 

Connecticut  Life  Insurance  Co 8 

C.  O.  Dean,  Dentist,  D.D.S 10 

Jas.  G.  Steele  &  Co.,  Chemist  and  Druggist 14 

Boericke  &  Schreck,  Homoeopathic  Pharmacy 22 

Mark  Strouse,  Butcher 28 

McAllister  &  Jones,  Real  Estate 34 

A.  T.  Green,  Broker  in  Real  Estate 36 

Dickey's  Creme  de  Lis 38 

Jacobs  &  Easton,  Insurance  Agency 44,  54,  132 

Macdonald's  Cracker  Store 60* 

Studabecker's  Tailor  Square. 64 

B.  F.  Sterrett,  Printing -. 68 

Heald's  Business  College • 88 

Yolo  Mills 102 

Jay  Eye  See  Liniment .- 116. 

California  Fruit  Salt 116 

Swell's  X.  L.  Dairy  Bottled  Milk  Co 140 

James  Duffy  &  Co. ,  Paperhanging  and  Frescoing 144 

M.  I.  S.  T.  Company 148 

The  Daily  Report 152 

T.  J.  Bass  &  Co.,  Artists'  Material 154 

The  Cafe.  M.  Johnson 156 

Sterling  Furniture  Co 158. 

Phoenix  Old  Bourbon 164 

The  Evening  Bulletin 166 

Taber,   Photographer 168 

John  F.  Meyers  &  Co. ,  Ranges 168 

S.  M.  Gruman,  Furniture 168 

Craig,  Cochran  &  Co. ,  Undertakers 168, 

J.  T.  Bowers  &  Sons,   Pianos 170 

Wainwright  £  Easton,  Coal 170 

G.  D.  Mayle,  Bakery 170 

Magnetic  Elastic  Truss  Co 172 

Terry  &  Co. ,  Furniture  and  Carpets 172 

Sperry's  Mills 172 

Wheeler  &  Wilson,  Sewing  Machine 176 

Sierra  Kidney  and  Liver  Cure 178. 

C.  R.  Hansen,  Employment  Agency 178 

G.  W.  Howe 

West  Coast  Furniture 180 

Radam's  Microbe  Killer 186 

A.  L.  Bancroft 1§6 

Pacific  Electric  Belt  and  Truss  Co 186 

J.  B.  Curtis 188 

Husband  &  Brooks 

Rathjen  Bros  

Peoples'  Bank 

C.  C.  Liniment 192 


190 

PEOPLES' 


Home  Savings  Bank, 

(FLOOD  BUILDING), 

Market  and  4th  Sts.,  San  Francisco,  Cal. 


Biiarantee  capital  -  ONE  million  DOLLPS. 


Interest  Paid  from  DATE  OF  DEPOSIT. 

Highest  Rates  Consistent  with  Prudent  Banking. 


DIVIDENDS  PAID  LAST  TERM: 

Ordinary  Deposits  at  the  rate  of  4.60%  per  annum, 
Term  Deposits  at  the  rate  of  5.52%  per  annum. 


Send  to  List  of  Shareholders  in  tie  Guarantee  Capital, 


PRESIDES!  GOIiUffiBUS  WflTEflHOUSE. 

VIGE-PflESlDEflT     .  {SflflC 


191 


In  dex — Recipes. 


PAGES. 

Soups 7,  9,  11,  12,  13,  14,  15,  16 

Fish 17,  19,  20,  21,  22 

Poultry  and  Game 23,  25,  26,  27 

Meats 29,  30,  31,  33,  35,  37 

Sauces  for  Meats,  etc 39,  41,  42,  43,  45 

Salad 45,  46,  47,  49,  50 

Vegetables 50,  51,  52,  53,  55,  57,  58,  59 

Eggs 59,  61,  63,  64 

Bread,  Biscuit,  Muffin,  etc 65,  67,  69,  71,  72,  73 

Breakfast  Cakes 73,  74,  75,  77 

Cakes.  .77,  79,  80,  81,  83,  84,  85,  87,  89,  91,  92,  93,  95,  96,  97,  98, 

99,  101,  103,  105 

Pies 105,  107,  108,  109,  111,  113 

Puddings....  11 3,   115,  117,  119,  121,  123,  125,  127,  129,  131,  133, 

135,  137 

Custards,  Creams,  Ices,  etc 137,  139,  141,  143,  145 

Candy 145,  147,  149,  151,  153,  155 

Beverages 157,  159,  161,  163,  165,  167 

Cookery  for  Invalids 167,  169,  171,  173,  175,  177,  179,  181 


Pacific  Bank  Sells  Drafts  on  every  Important  City, 


192 


C.   C.    LINIMENT. 


The  Great  Pain  Conqueror.  For  Man  and  Beast 


Camphor 
Chloral 

LINIMENT 

A  Sure  Cure  for 
Rheumatism, 
Sciatica, 
Scalds, 
Neuralgia, 

Poison  Oak, 
Corns,  Burns 
Toothache, 
Bunions, 

Insect  Bites, 

Inflammation 

Sore  Throat,  • 

Catarrh, 

Etc. 


Indorsed  by  the 
Medical  Faculty. 


Prescribed  by- 
San  Francisco's 
Leading  Physicians. 


For  the  Cure  of 

CATARRH, 

C.    C.    Liniment 

has  no  Peer. 

Try  It. 


CAMPHOR  CHLORAL  LINIMENT 


None  gen- 
uine without 
thefac-simile 

Signature 
here  shown 


THE   C.   C.   LINIMENT   CO 


C.  C. 

LINIMENT 

is  invaluable 

for 
Stock  Raisers 

and 
Farmers. 

A  Remedy  for 
every  home; 
giving  instant 

relief  and 
effecting  per- 
manent cures. 

No  Remedy 

has  ever  been 

placed  on 

the  market 

that  has  met 

with  such 

a  phenomenal 

sale. 

If  your  Drug- 
gist does  not 
keep  it  send 
us  $1  and  we 
will  send  you 
two  bottles, 
express  char- 
ges paid  by 
us,  to  any 
part  of  the 
United 

States. 


If  you  live  in  San 
Francisco  we  will 
deliver  by  mes- 
senger at  our 
expense. 


No.  12  BUSH  STREET,  Junction  of  Market, 

W.    H.    BONE,    General    Manager 


San  Francisco,  Gal. 


are  constantly  shipping  to  all  parts  of  the  United  States. 
Wanted  in  all  interior  counties,  and  in  the  Eastern  States. 

For  Sale  by  all   Druggists. 


Live  Agents 


CORNER  MARKET  AND  TENTH  STREETS, 


Do  not  miss  visiting  this  Wonderful  Piece  of  Art  and  Real 
istic  Battle  Scene. 

If  you  have  not  seen  it  do  so  at  once. 
The  Museum  is  the  delight  of  the  Children, 


ALL  BOOKS  MAY  BE  RECALLED  AFTER  7  DAYS 
DUE  AS  STAMPED  BELOVtf 


NO.  000,  50m 


