03 1 


m 


THINGS  WORTH  KNOWING: 


A BOOK 


\ 

k 


DISCLOSING  IN  VALUABLE 


INFORMATION,  RECEIPTS  AND  INSTRUCTION, 


IN  THE 


USEFUL  AND  DOMESTIC  ARTS, 


EVERYTHING  OP  WHICH  IS  OF 


PRACTICAL  use  to  everybody, 


new  YO 
HENRY  STEPHENS 


v 


ONE  THOUSAND 

\ 

THINGS  WORTH 


INFORMATION,  RECEIPTS  AND  INSTRUCTION 


IN  THE 


USEFUL  AND  DOMESTIC 


EVERYTHING  OP  WHICH  IS  OP 


PRACTICAL  USE  rU 


NEW  YORK: 
HENRY  STEPHENS,  PUB 


0T>  I 


CONTENTS 


A TIT  OF  DRESSMAKING,  • * * 

ART  OF  GOOD  BEHAVIOR,  ...••• 

HOW  TO  GET  RICH, 

ON  THE  CHOICE  OF  MEATS'  ND  HOW  TO  COOK  THEM, 

ON  THE  TREATMENT  OF  >'*  ANTS,  * 

DISEASES  OF  THE  HAIR,  • 

the  art  of  carting,  ••••-"* 

OX  WARTS  AND  CORVS,  AND  HOW  TO  COKE  THEM,  . 

ON  MAKING  

THE  CANARY-BIRD  ANCIER,  • • * 

THE  ETIQUETTE  Olr  COURTSHIP  AND  MARRIAGE,  * * 

HYDROPATHY,  OR  THE  WATER  CURE, 

THE  ART  OF  CONVERSATION,  . • 

COOKERY  FOR  THE  SICK  ROOM,  ‘ 

RESPECTING  CLOTHING,  • 

ON  THE  CARE  OF  FURNITURE  AND  HOUSE-KEEPING  ARTICLES,  . 

CO  MAKE  CHEAP  AND  WHOLESOME  DRINKS  POR  WARM  WEATHER, 
TO  MAKE  SWEETMEATS  AND  PRESERVES, 

THE  NURSE’S  MANUAL,  

MEDICAL  PREPARATIONS,  * 

^HE  YOUNG  LADY’S  MANUAL,  • * 

THE  INVALID’S  MANUAL,  ..•••* 

"TIE  YOUNG  MAN’S  MANUAL, 

HINTS  ON  ETIQUETTE, 

HOW  TO  WIN  A SWEET  HEART— TRUE  AND  ONLY  METHOD,  . 
HOW  TO  BE  BEAUTIFUL,  . • « e * 

EMPLOYMENT  FOR  EVERYBODY,  OB  **  r 


5 

11 

18 

21 

26 

30 

34 

41 

44 

55 

61 

69 

76 

80 

82 

85 

90 

91 

95 

102 

105 

118 

125 

128 

129 

l*1 


THE  AKT  OF 

millinery  and  dressmaking. 


SSO’VET  "2*0  IMrA-IEsr-ig’; 


XKEUS&SfiSL 


:£S$/S?J3£?s  Sr3 

cmteriaUf  that  width,'  will  hJ  found  suffident  “enn°’  " a“y  °ther 
Cutting  Out 

book  of  the  month,  and  sLdy  i*  a littlo 3n^,therefore  get  a fashion 
of  the  bookstores  It  w i tJn  V -r  , TheY  are  to  be  had  at  any 

flounces,  are  cut  on  t,  dgh/way  /thlmaterial’  ov'Tt "h™ 

may  mLT^'th  BbVSlSe“°““  ^ ^ dr®ssed’  tha*  you 

is  made,  supposiL  V-1  tl0a  you  can  observe  how  her  dress 

makingofadrm  Fash?on1«  -W  a!ready.  something  about  the 
less  change  than'  man™*  * Denary  idea,  and  there  is  much 

material.  Sp0llt  by  bemg  overloaded  with  trimmings  or 

Waist  or  Body. 

1.  tl  teouf ,nl1  ; -a.  .tout  p™  it 

- *— fc  232 


6 


THE  ART  OF  MILLINERY  xAND  DRESSMAKING. 


be  even  ••  do  not  draw  the  hand  too*tight.  If  you  have  no  paper 
pattern  that  fits,  unpick  half  an  old  body  that  fits  well  5 lay  your 
new  lining  on  your  cutting  board,  with  an  old  body  on  top  of  it, 
and  with  your  piercer  prick  through  both,  in  the  old  stitches  of 
your  body  pattern  ; prick  them  well , as  the  marks  are  apt  to  rub 
out  5 tack  all  the  body  well  in  the  holes  round  it,  before  you  begin, 
and  be  very  careful  to  stitch  your  body  to  the  tacking  thread  ; take 
care  and  attend  to  this.  Five  out  of  six  persons  have  their  dresses 
made  too  tight  across  the  chest ; it  is  a sad  fault ; I have  many 
times  seen  waists  out  of  reason  in  length,  and  the  front  two  inches 
too  narrow ) if  a penknife  were  run  up  the  middle,  it  would  burst 
open ) when  I have  had  occasion  to  do  it,  I have  never  found  any 
one  willing  to  have  the  seam  sewn  up  again  ; and  I feel  convinced, 
that  any  lady,  once  wearing  an  easy  dress,  would  never  go  back  to 
a tight  one;  to  say  nothing  of  its  being  healthy  and  beautiful. 
Great  care  must  be  taken  with  the  arm-holes ; do  not  make  them 
too  large  or  too  small  5 thirteen  inches  is  a nice  size  for  a person 
not  more  than  twenty-four  inches  in  the  waist ; fourteen  inches  is 
a large  size,  only  required  for  stout  persons.  If  you  have  to  alter 
the  arm-hole,  never  do  it  under  the  arm ; in  nine  cases  out  of  ten, 
it  will  spoil  the  dress,  and  it  takes  away  the  free  use  of  the  arm  ; a 
very  small  piece  cut  off  round  the  arm-hole,  except  underneath, 
will  be  all  that  is  necessary.  Do  not  forget,  your  sleeve  must  be 
larger  than  the  arm-hole  an  inch  and  a half ; when  put  in,  it  never 
looks  the  least  full,  and  sets  better.  The  seam  of  your  sleeve  must 
not  be  even  with  the  seam  of  your  body,  but  half  an  inch  in  front 
of  it.  In  cording  the  neck,  do  not  stretch  it ; hold  the  cord  tight. 
The  waist  must,  on  the  contrary,  be  pulled  well,  when  the  cord  is 
put  on,  or  it  will  never  fit ; it  requires  much  stretching.  The  fit  of 
the  body  often  depends  on  the  finishing  of  the  waist.  In  putting 
on  a waistband,  let  it  be  larger  than  the  body ; the  fashion  at  the 
present  moment,  I am  glad  to  say,  is  not  carried  to  the  extreme ; 
the  waists  are  moderate  in  length,  and  I do  hope  sensible  women 
will  cease  to  think  tight  waists  are  an  ornament.  Nothing  is  so 
beautiful  as  nature,  if  we  will  only  let  it  alone ; it  is  presumption  to 
think  we  can  improve  it ; so  much  has  been  said  by  all  our  clever 
physicians  on  this  subject,  that  more  than  a passing  remark  from 
me,  will  be  unnecessary.  It  is  a common  error  to  make  the  backs 
of  a dress  of  a different  size ; both  halves  should  be  of  the  same 
size ; as  one  comes  under,  and  the  other  over,  they  must  of  course 
wrap  equal,  and  certainly  require  to  be  both  alike.  Put  the  hooks 
not  more  than  one  inch  apart,  and  a quarter  of  an  inch  from  the 
edge  of  the  back.  If  the  dress  fastens  in  front,  make  the  fastenings 
the  same ; and  I think  a hem  down  the  back,  a decided  improve- 
ment ; it  takes  off  the  width  of  the  back,  for  narrow  backs  and 
wide  chests  are  what  is  considered  right.  In  gathering  a body  at 
the  waist,  if  it  is  at  all  thick  material,  guage  it  with  strong  silk  or 
thread  and  large  stitches,  for  it  is  a small  compass  it  has  to  be  put 
in ; all  full  bodies  are  made  with  quite  a straight  piece  of  material, 


the  art  of  millinery  and  dressmaking.  7 

twenty  inches  long,  and  eighteen  wide  : this  is  half  the  front  • 
gather  it  straight  at  the  bottom,  and  then  place  it  on  ycur  tight 
lining;  fix  it  firmly,  and  then  gather  it  at  the  shoulder  Tit  mind 
and  do  the  bottom  guagmg  first;  to  make  a body  with  folds  still 
have  your  material  twenty  inches  long,  and  nineteen  wide  • the 
sebage  must  reach  from  waist  to  shoulder.  Have  the  piece' on  a 
table  before  you,  and  make  about  four  folds  quite  straight ? W tpi 
on  your  lining,  push  them  close  together  at  the  waist  and'pull  them 

wS“'  f *rd  ~ \d»« ietii  * 

which  is  too  frequently  the  case,  and  always  will,  as  a matter  of 
course  set  badly  ; do  not  put  your  folds  into  th^  neck  let  then. 

thlsh°ulder’  lt;  widens  the  chest;  they  had  better  be 
laid  a little  on  the  sleeves,  than  pushed  all  towards  the  neck  In 
making  your  body  lining  ready  to  put  on  the  part  be  careful  it  is 

iriu““L“kt™,lh  i *°1  ”“d  ,0m  bod!r  " I1“l  ■»•■*>  *»  v'ell 

on  . tlmt  is,  if  your  body  is  lined  with  white,  which  it  certainlv 

p.r.r  w«  TdeTred 

fit  awith  S ’ Eve  dreSl  d°el  'I"  fit  Dicely  without  bone,  it  wuTnever 

be  sure  to  give  ease  in  the  arm-hole,  and  width  on  the  chest  ’ 
Sleeves:  How  to  make  them. 

seem  volf  cfnT™’  T*  °"?  S°?d  Pattern>  strange  as  it  may 

VouT’ sleeve  a lhS  6aSI  J m*.fx  different  fashions  by  cutting 
youi  sleeve  a little  longer  or  a little  shorter,  and  putting  on  differ- 

thL  We1DgTher  lS  SOmVn  a>nd  at  the  wrist,  or  leaving 
ner  I <Wih T f m?  ®haP®. ls,bJ  a dressmaker  altered  in  the  mam 
Try  and  nT  ^ W**j  a llttle  observation  I think  can  be  done. 

7 and  procure  a good  pattern  at  first.  With  taste,  one  pattern 


8 THE  ART  OF  MILLINERY  AND  DRESSMAKINC. 

can  be  made  to  look  like  six.  A trimming  on  the  top  of  the  sleeve 
is  a great  improvement  to  thin  persons,  and,  to  my  taste,  really 
pretty.  It  should  match  the  bottom  part  of  the  sleeve  and  body 
trimming.  Let  it  all  match.  Most  sleeves  are  now  cut  on  the 
straight,  but  cross  will  do.  This  must  be  decided  by  the  wearer, 
and  sometimes  by  the  material.  If  it  is  stripes,  they  do  not  always 
look  well  on  straight  way ; and  if  a sleeve  is  tight  to  the  arm,  it 
would  hardly  fit  on  the  straight.  In  making  up  any  open  sleeve, 
lay  the  material  on  the  lining,  cut  them  both  the  same  size,  and 
tack  them  together  flat  on  the  table.  Line  the  bottom  of  the  sleeve 
With  silk  to  match  the  dress,  or  a piece  like  the  dress,  about  three 
inches  deep.  Put  your  sleeve  together,  and  let  the  fullness  for  the 
elbow  come  in  the  half  of  your  seam.  Stitch  up  your  sleeves,  and 
nicely  sew  them  over.  Do  not  leave  large  turnings.  If  the  mate- 
rial is  not  soft,  you  had  better  stitch  up  three  pieces  of  your  sleeve, 
and  let  one  side  of  your  lining  fell  over  the  three  other  pieces,  and 
you  will  find  this  quite  neat.  Don’t  forget  to  cut  both  sleeves  at 
once  3 that  is  the  outside  double,  and  the  lining  double.  Double 
your  material  and  lay  the  two  right  sides  together ; you  cannot 
then  make  up  both  sleeves  for  one  arm,  a very  common  occurrence 
with  young  beginners.  One  good  pattern  is  absolutely  necessary 
for  cutting  out  your  sleeves.  Some  persons  think  almost  anything 
will  do  for  a sleeve  pattern  ; it  is  a mistake  • no  part  of  a dress  re 
quires  a better  pattern  to  cut  by. 

Skirts : How  to  make  them. 

Supposing  you  have  measured  over  your  material,  have  your  inch 
measure  ready  to  cut  the  skirt  from  it.  It  is  a good  plan  to  write 
down  in  a little  book  the  number  of  inches  long  your  skirt  is  re- 
quired. Measure  it  at  the  back  of  the  dress,  and  then  from  the 
seam  under  the  arm.  The  slope  begins  here,  and  gradually  goes  to 
the  point.  Lay  the  skirt  on  a table,  and  have  both  halves  exact, 
pin  them  together  at  the  bottom,  and  pull  them  even  at  top.  A 
dressmaker,  would  have  a person  to  hold  the  skirt  at  the  bottom, 
while  she  made  it  even  at  the  top.  Put  seam  to  seam.  Care  should 
be  taken  to  cut  your  skirt  even,  every  breadth  the  same  length  ; 
and  let  your  seams  be  nicely  pinned  before  you  begin  to  run  them. 
Make  yourself  a heavy  cushion,  to  pin  your  seams  to.  A common 
brick  covered  makes  a very  good  one.  In  cutting  off  the  skirt,  if 
the  length,  we  will  suppose,  should  be  forty-two  or  forty^six  inches 
long,  leave  four  inches  more  for  the  hem  and  turnings  at  the  top. 
Cut  the  lining  for  the  skirt  exact  to  the  material,  and  mind  it  fits 
when  finished.  Supposing  you  to  have  run  the  seams  of  the  skirt 
und  the  seams  of  your  lining,  lay  the  lining  on  the  table,  placing 
the  skirt  on  top,  and  then  tack  the  seams  of  your  skirt  to  the  lining. 
Begin  at  the  first  seam,  and  gradually  go  on  to  the  last  seam ; 
stitch  up  three  pieces  together,  and  fell  over  the  fourth  5 having 
done  this,  hem  the  bottom.  Fix  your  hem  all  round  before  you 
begin*  and  do  not  take  the  stitches  through  5 unless  your  hem  is 


THE  ART  OF  MILLINERY  AND  DRESSMAKING. 


9 


tacked  or  pinned,  it  will  be  sure  to  be  on  the  twist,  and  set  badly. 
Having  done  this,  run  on  your  braid,  which  must  be  put  on  easy,  or 
rather  full.  Attend  to  this,  or  you  will  spoil  the  set  of  the  skirt. 
If  the  skirt  is  to  have  flounces,  they  must  be  put  on  before  you 
guage  the  top ; and  while  the  skirt  is  on  the  table,  put  a white 
tacking  thread  round  the  skirt  where  each  flounce  is  to  be  fixed. 
Flounces  take  the  same  quantity  of  material  if  cut  either  on  the 
straight  or  the  cross.  It  is  a common  error  to  suppose  they  take 
more  on  the  cross.  For  the  fullness  of  a flounce  allow  one  width  on 
the  cross  to  one  width  on  the  straight  of  your  skirt ; so  that  if  you 
have  six  widths  in  your  skirt,  you  will  have  six  widths  in  your 
flounces  on  the  cross.  If  there  are  three  flounces  of  different 
widths,  let  the  bottom  and  widest  one  have  the  most  fullness;  three 
inches  more  fullness  will  be  sufficient.  If  the  flounces  are  on  the 
straight,  allow  eight  widths  in  the  flounce  to  six  widths  in  the  skirt. 
A small  cord  run  in  at  the  top  of  the  flounce  makes  it  look  neat. 
Before  running  the  cord  in  your  flounce,  join  it  round  the  exact  size 
of  the  skirt ; joirf  round  likewise  your  flounces,  and  full  them  on  the 
cord  as  you  go  on.  Halve  and  quarter  your  flounces  and  also  the 
skirt,  and  you  will  find  them  no  trouble  to  put  on. 

To  cut  flounces  on  a good  cross,  have  the  material  on  a table,  and 
turn  down  one  corner  in  the  exact  shape  of  half  a pocket  handker- 
chief, and  then  cut  it  through.  In  turning  down  your  half,  try  two 
ways ; one  way  lays  flat  on  the  table  when  folded,  and  the  other 
does  not  look  so  flat,  cut  through  the  latter.  In  silk  there  is  no 
perceptible  difference  which  way  you  cut  it ; but  in  crape  you  will 
very  easily  observe  it.  Take  any  piece  you  have  by  you,  and  try  it 
while  reading  this.  Now  begin  to  turn  down  your  material  on  the 
cross,  like  a gentleman  folds  his  neckerchief ; keep  folding  until  you 
have  the  number  of  pieces  you  want  for  one  flounce,  and  keep  each 
one  pinned  to  the  other  as  you  fold  them,  so  as  to  leave  them  all 
exact  in  width.  Mind  the  edges  measure  exact.  Supposing  you 
to  keep  turning  each  one  as  you  fold  it.  If  the  flounces  are  to  be 
nine  inches,  cut  the  selvage  the  same  depth.  Some  persons  are  at 
a great  loss  to  know  how  much  three  or  four  flounces  will  take. 
Supposing  you  to  have  three  flounces,  one  ten,  one  eight,  and  one 
six  inches  deep  at  the  selvage,  the.  flounce  of  ten  inches  wide  would 
take  not  quite  one  yard  and  three-quarters ; that  of  eight  inches, 
one  yard  a quarter  and  three  inches  ; and  that  of  six  inches,  exactly 
one  yard ; making  in  all  four  yards  for  three  flounces ; this,  you 
will  understand,  is  for  flounces  cut  on  the  cross  or  straight  in  any 
material  you  may  wish  to  use.  I should  advise  you  to  have  paper 
and  pencil  and  your  inch  measure,  and  reckon  before  you  purchase 
your  material.  Trimmings  down  the  front  of  a dress,  when  on  the 
cross,  should  be  cut  the  same  as  flounces.  In  trimming  the  front  of 
a skirt,  it  is  a good  plan  to  cut  a paper  the  length  of  the  skirt,  and 
pin  it  on  the  way  you  intend  to  trim,  and  then  tack  a tacking 
thread  by  it.  Put  tackings  wherever  you  mean  to  trim,  before  you 
begin  trimming,  and  lay  your  skirt  on  a table  to  do  it ; put  on  all 

1* 


to 


THE  ART  OF  MILLINERY  AND  DRESSMAKING. 


trimmings  with  a light  hand  ; do  not  sew  them  as  you  would  a 
shirt,  it  gives  them  a puckered  look.  Now  mind  a good  cross,  no 
attempts  at  making  pieces  do,  unless  they  are  good  corner  pieces 
that  will  join  well : 3 0U  are  more  sure  of  making  a trimming  well, 
if  cut  all  from  one  piece.  Before  cutting  a skirt  off,  that  you  wish 
to  put  tucks  in,  have  a piece  of  lining  or  calico  at  hand,  pin  the 
tucks  in  it  as  you  wish  to  put  them  in  your  skirt.  Supposing  you 
to  have  pinned  your  calico  exactly  like  one  width  of  your  skirt,  take 
out  your  pins  and  measure  with  an  inch  measure  the  exact  quantity, 
and  then  calculate  the  quantity  you  will  want  for  the  whole  skirt. 
As  a general  rule,  a tucked  skirt  takes  more  than  a flounced  one, 
and  makes  less  show  for  the  quantity  of  material  used.  When  run- 
ning. seams  of  a silk  skirt,  notch  the  selvage  all  the  way  up  the 
seams  of  every  breadth,  and  pass  a moderately  -warm  iron  over  the 
seams  when  finished  5 seams  in  a merino  skirt,  require  to  be  run 
thickly  and  pressed  open 5 press  every  join  you  make  in  every  part* 
of  a dress.  In  guaging  a skirt  of  any  kind,  guage  the  four  back 
widths  in  larger  stitches  than  you  guage  the  three  front  ones  ; the 
rule  in  guaging  is  to  take  as  much  on  your  needle  as  you  leave ; 
that  is,  if  you  took  up  on  your  needle  a quarter  of  an  inch,  you 
would  leave  a quarter  of  an  inch ; this  size  would  do  for  the  back 
gathers,  but  the  front  must  be  smaller.  All  seams  should  be  run 
with  silk  the  color  of  the  dress.  It  is  a good  plan  to  have  fine  black 
thread  in  your  work  box,  to  sew  waists  on  and  guage  the  skirts  of 
a dark  dress. 

Cloaks : How  to  make  them. 

Supposing  you  to  have  a pattern  of  a cloak  that  suits  you,  if  it  is 
a paper  pattern  you  have  bought,  before  cutting  your  material,  cut 
the  shape  in  lining  and  fit  it  on  * in  case  it  should  be  too  large  or 
too  small  in  the  neck  or  shoulder,  pin  it  the  size  you  require,  and 
before  taking  out  the  pins  put  a black  tacking  thread  in,  to  mark 
the  size  you  want  it ; having  done  this,  untack  the  lining  and  lay 
it  on  your  material,  and  then  proceed  to  cut  out  your  cloak,  What 
ever  you  are  going  to  line  the  cloak  with,  must  be  cut  the  same  size 
as  the  outside.  If  the  cloak  is  not  lined,  and  there  are  white  selva- 
ges on  the  silk,  be  sure  to  cut  them  off,  it  is  very  ugly  to  see  a black 
cloak  on  the  wrong  side  with  white  selvages.  If  you  trim  your 
cloak  with  lace,  and  it  measures  three  yards  round,  put  four  and  a 
half  yards  of  lace  on, —wide  lace  requires  more  fullness  than  narrow. 
Gimpe  and  fringe  require  to  be  put  on  easy.  To  make  up  a winter 
cloak,  it  generally  requires  to  have  wadding  in  it.  Buy  two  or 
three  sheets  of  good  white  wadding — white  is  better  than  black  for 
anything ; before  opening  the  sheets  of  wadding,  lay  them  before  a 
fire  for  half  an  hour,  they  will  then  open  nicely  in  the  middle ; 
they  are  better  opened  by  two  persons  than  by  one  ; if  the  wadding 
is  a little  thick,  all  the  better ; pull  off  a little  of  the  soft  part  and 
leave  the  skin.  Lay  your  silk  lining  on  the  table,  the  wadding  on 
top,  the  soft  part  towards  the  silk,  keeping  the  skin  side  up ; lay  one 


THE  ART  OF  MILLINERY  AND  DRESSMAKING.  il 

sheet  of  wadding  on  first,  and  tack  it  all  over  with  white  cotton  in 
large  stitches  3 having  done  this,  have  ready  the  finest  black  cotton 
you  can  get,  or  fine  black  sewing  silk ; have  ready  your  inch 
measure,  place  a row  of  pins  an  inch  apart,  and  now  put  a stitch  in 
nlace  of  each  pin,  and  so  keep  going  on  throughout  the  cloak  that 
your  stitches  form  squares,  of  an  inch.  Mind,  the  silk  must  be  cut 
out  one  inch  larger  than  the  shape  of  your  cloak  before  you  begin 
to  wad  it.  If  you  wish  to  quilt  a cloak,  the  wadding  and  silk  are 
prepared  in  just  the  same  manner,  and  it  is  a matter  of  taste  which 
you  do.  Thin  flannel  is  sometimes  used  to  line  cloaks  with,  but  to 
my  taste  very  ugly,  there  is  nothing  like  good  wadding  for  warmth, 
for  dresses,  petticoats,  or  any  thing  else.  To  see  if  a cloak  sets 
well,  it  had  better  be  fitted  on  some  one  before  quite  finished  : any 
part  on  the  cross  always  will  droop  a little,  and  requires  care  in 
fixing.  If  you  trim  a cloak  with  velvet  or  any  light  trimming,  do 
it  before  you  line  the  cloak ; fur  or  heavy  trimmings  are  better  put 
on  after  the  cloak  is  lined,  but  don’t  take  the  stitches  through. 
Half  of  any  round  table  will  make  a very  good  pattern  for  a cloak  ; 
cut  a piece  out  of  the  part  where  the  middle  of  the  table  comes, 
half  the  size  of  the  top  of  a gentleman’s  hat ; now  make  two  pleats 
on  each  shoulder  : this  is  the  round  or  circular  cloak,  which  is  now 
worn  * lined  or  not  lined  they  do  equally  well. 

General  Remarks. 

Cut  your  plain  skirt  off  the  piece  first,  body  and  sleeves  after, 
leave  your  trimmings  to  the  last  5 large  turnings  are  bad  and  waste 
the  stuff  • measure  carefully  and  cut  exact.  I have  met  with  many 
who  fail  in  making  a dress,  owing  to  their  really  cutting  every  part 
of  the  body  too  large,  and  getting  confused ; recollect  to  cut  all 
your  body  double,  that  is,  the  two  halves  of  front,  and  the  two 
halves  of  back,  at  the  same  time.  When  you  are  about  to  com- 
mence a dress,  have  the  following  things  in  a basket  or  box  at  your 
hand,  viz. : sewing  silk,  the  color  of  the  dress, — one  or  two  reels  of 
cotton,  fine  and  coarse — a pair  of  scissors,  not  small — a penny  inch 
measure,  you  can  procure  one  at  a trimming  shop ; don’t  cut  with- 
out a measure,  and  always  measure  all  that  you  have  bought  or 
have  given  you  for  a dress,  before  you  begin  to  cut. 


ART  OP  GOOD  BEHAVIOR. 

There  are  numberless  writers  upon  this  subject,  from  Chester- 
field to  Willis,  but  the  great  fault  with  all  of  them  is,  that  their 
works  are  designed  exclusively  for  the  bon  ton.  They  are  very  well 
for  those  who  spend  their  whole  lives  in  the  fashionable  circles ; 
but  if  a plain,  unpretending  man  or  woman  were  to  follow  their 
directions,  they  would  only  make  themselves  ridiculous. 

In  view  of  this  fact,  I shall  now  present  a few  plain  directions 


12 


ART  OF  GOOD  BEHAVIOR. 


fashioned  not  after  an  imaginary  model,  but  upon  the  world  as  it  is. 
I address  only  sensible  persons,  and  expect  them  to  be  satisfied  with 
such  rules  and  principles  as  shall  form  well-bred  men  and  women,  and 
not  coxcombs  and  dandies.  My  directions  are  all  the  result  of  my 
own  observation  and  experience,  and  may  be  relied  upon  as  being  the 
actual  practices  of  respectable  people,  both  in  this  country  and  in  Eu- 
rope ; for  the  manners  of  well-bred  people  are  the  same  in  all  parts  of 
the  world. 


(1.)  Of  the  Person. 

Cleanliness,  absolute  purity  of  person,  is  the  first  requisite  in  the 
appearance  of  a gentleman  or  lady.  Not  only  should  the  face  and 
hands  be  kept  clean,  but  the  whole  skin  should  be  subjected  to  fre- 
quent ablutions.  Better  wear  coarse  clothes  with  a clean  skin,  than 
silk  stockings  drawn  over  dirty  feet.  Remember  that  dirt  is  the 
never-failing  sign  of  vulgarity,  as  cleanliness  is  of  gentility.  Let  the 
whole  skin  be  kept  pure  and  sweety  the  teeth  and  nails  and  hair,  clean, 
and  the  last  two  of  a medium  length,  and  naturally  cut.  Nothing  de- 
forms a man  more  than  bad  hair-cutting,  and  unnatural  deformity  in 
wearing  it.  Abstain  from  all  eccentricities.  Take  a medium  between 
nature  and  fashion,  which  is  perhaps  the  best  rule  in  regard  to  dress 
and  appearance  that  can  be  given. 

(2.)  Dress. 

The  importance  of  dress  can  scarcely  be  overrated,  but  by  compare 
'“Ison.  It  is  with  the  world  the  outward  sign  of  both  character  and 
condition  ; and  since  it  costs  no  more  to  dress  well  than  ill,  and  is  not 
very  troublesome,  every  one  should  endeavor  to  do  the  best  that  his 
circumstances  will  allow. 

A clean,  unrumpled  shirt,  coarse  or  fine,  cotton  or  linen  as  you  can 
afford,  is  of  the  first  importance.  If  the  choice  is  between  a fine  shirt 
orka  fine  coat,  have  the  shirt  by  all  meaps.  A well  bred  man  may  be 
ever  so  reduced  in  his  wardrobe — his  clothes  may  Be  coarse  and 
thread-bare,  but  he  seldom  wears  a coarse,  and  never  a dirty  shirt. 

Boots  are  now  men’s  common  wear  on  all  occasions,  varying  in 
elegance  for  different  purposes.  They  should  always  be  clean,  and 
invariably  well  blackened  and  polished. 

Make  a point  of  buying  a good  hat.  One  proper  fur  hat  worth 
four  or  five  dollars,  when  a year  old,  looks  more  respectable  than  a 
silk  one  bought  yesterday. 

Be  as  particular  as  you  like  about  the  cut  of  your  pantaloons. 
Run  into  no  extravagances  of  bell  bottoms,  or  puckered  waists.  Buy 
strong  cloth,  that  will  not  be  tearing  at  every  turn  ; and  if  you  consult 
economy  and  taste  at  the  same  time,  let  them  be  either  black  or  very 
dark  grey,  when  they  will  answer  upon  all  occasions. 

The  vest  allows  of  some  fancy,  but  beware  of  being  too  fanciful. 
A black  satin  is  proper  for  any  person  or  any  occasion.  Nothing  is 
more  elegant  than*  pure  white.  Some  quiet  colors  may  be  worn  for 


ART  OF  GOOD  BEHAVIOR. 


13 


variety,  but  beware  of  everything  staring  or  glaring,  in  materials  or 

trimming  COat,  it  will  be  a black  dress  coat,  as  there  are 

occasions  where  no  other  will  answer.  Frock  coats  are  worn  in  the 
morning,  riding  or  walking,  but  never  at  evening  visits,  or  at  wed- 
Zcrs  balls  narties,  or  the  opera.  Overcoats  are  worn  for  comfort  , 
they  need  notbe  fine,  and  should  not  be  fanciful.  Stocks  are  P^y  much 
out  of  use.  Most  gentlemen  wear  a simple,  plain  black  silk  cravat, 
neatly  tied  in  a bow-not  before.  Balls  and  parties  require  white  or  . 
Sight  lid  gloves.  Black  or  very  dark  ones,  of  kid,  silk  or  £nen,  rue 
worn  upon  all  other  occasions,  except  in  driving,  when  buff  leathe 

gl  The  best* dressed' men  wear  the  best  jewelry.  Of  all  things,  avoid 
showy  drains,  large  rings,  and  flashy  gewgaw  pms  and brooch* » 

All  these  things  should  be  left  to  negroes,  Indians,  and  South  Sea 

.slanders.Q^t  pocket^an(]kercl>iefs  are  of  white  linen.  If  fig- 

nrpd  or  bordered,  it  should  be  very  delicately, 

Gloves  are  worn  in  the  street,  at  church,  and  places  of  amusement. 

Tt  is  not  enough  to  carry  them — they  are  to  be  worn. 

Ladies  are  Allowed  to  consult  fancy,  variety,  and  ornament,  more 
than  men,  yet  nearly  the  same  rules  apply.  Itisthemarkofa  lady 

and  produces  many  others.  No  woman  who  laces  tight  can  h g @ & 
shoulders,  a straight  spine,  good  lungs,  sweet  breath,  or 

WiThTmos°thdJgant  dresses  are  black  or  white.  Common  modesty 
will  prevent  indecent  exposure  of  the  shoulders  and  bosom.  £ 

— — «*  - 

“ b».h  d» s 

best  dressed  when  you  cannot  remember  how  they 
Avoid  everything  out  of  the  way,  uncommon,  or  grote-q 

(3.)  Behavior  in  the  Street. 

When  you  meet  a gentleman  with  whom  you^are  acquainted,  y u 


14 


ART  OF  GOOD  BEHAVIOR. 


DOW,  raising*  your  hit  slightly  with  the  left  hand,  which  leaves  your 
right  at  liberty  to  shake  hands  if  you  stop.  If  the  gentleman  is  un- 
gloved, you  must  take  off  yours,  not  otherwise. 

Meeting  a lady,  the  rule  is  that  she  should  make  the  first  salute,  or 
at  least  indicate  by  her  manner  that  she  recognizes  you.  Your  bow 
must  be  lower,  and  your  hat  carried  further  from  your  head ; but  you 
never  offer  to  shake  hands ; that  is  her  privilege. 

The  right,  being  the  post  of  honor,  is  given  to  superiors  and  ladies, 
except  in  the  street,  when  they  take  the  wall,  as  farthest  from  danger 
from  passing  carriages,  in  walking  with  or  meeting  them. 

, In  walking  with  a lady,  you  are  not  bound  to  recognize  gentlemen 
with  whom  she  is  not  acquainted,  nor  have  they,  in  such  a case,  any 
right  to  salute,  much  less  to  speak  to  you. 

Whenever  or  wherever  you  stand,  to  converse  with  a lady,  or  while 
handing  her  into  or  out  of  a carriage,  keep  your  hat  in  your  hand. 

I Should  her  shoe  become  unlaced,  or  her  dress  in  any  manner  disor- 
I dered,  fail  not  to  apprise  her  of  it,  respectfully,  and  offer  your  assist- 
ance. A gentleman  may  hook  a dress  or  lace  a shoe  with  perfect 
' propriety,  and  should  be  able  to  do  so  gracefully. 

Whether  with  a lady  or  gentleman,  a street  talk  should  be  a short 
* one ; and  in  either  case,  when  you  have  passed  the  customary  com- 
pliments, if  you  wish  to  continue  the  conversation,  you  must  say. 
j “ Permit  me  to  accompany  you.” 

i Don’t  sing,  hum,  whistle,  or  talk  to  yourself,  in  walking.  Endeavor, 

1 besides  being  well  dressed,  to  have  a calm,  good-natured  countenance. 
A scowl  always  begets  wrinkles.  It  is  best  not  to  smoke  at  all  in 
public,  but  none  but  a ruffian  in  grain  will  inflict  upon  society  the 
I odor  of  a bad  cigar,  or  that  of  any  kind  on  ladies. 

Ladies  are  not  allowed,  upon  ordinary  occasions,  to  take  the  arm  of 
any  one  but  a relative  or  an  accepted  lover  in  the  street,  and  in  the 
day  time ; in  the  evening — in  the  fields,  or  in  a crowd,  wherever  she 
may  need  protection — she  should  not  refuse  it.*  She  should  pass  her 
hand  over  the  gentleman’s,  arm,  merely,  but  should  not  walk  at  arm’s 
length  apart,  as  country  girls  sometimes  do.  In  walking  with  a gen- 
tleman, the  step  of  the  lady  must  be  lengthened,  and  his  shortened,  to 
prevent  the  hobbling  appearance  of  not  keeping  step.  Of  course,  the 
conversation  of  a stranger,  beyond  asking  a necessary  question,  must 
oe  considered  as  a gross  insult,  and  repelled  with  proper  spirit. 

(4.)  Visiting. 

Of  course,  you  ring  or  knock,  and  await  the  opening  of  the  door. 
When  this  is  done,  you  ask  for  the  mistress  of  the  house,  not  the 
master. 

Should  she  be  not  at  home  or  engaged,  you  leave  your  card,  where 
cards  are  used,  or  y:ur  compliments.  Where  there  are  several  ladies 
I in  the  family,  you  may  ask  for  the  ladies.  Where  people  dine  early, 

I calls  are  not  made  until  some  time  after  dinner — in  cities  they  are 
made  from  eleven  till  three. 

You  leave  overcoat,  cane,  umbrella,  &c.,  and,  if  the  call  is  of  any 
length,  your  hat,  in  the  entry.  A graceful  bow,  a pleasant  smile,  aR 


ART  OF  GOOD  BEHAVIOR. 


15 


easy  way  of  paying  the  customary  compliments,  and  suiting  them  to 
each  person,  no  lesson  can  teach.  In  the  presence  of  ladies,  you  are 
onty  silent  when  listening  to  them.  You  never  yawn,  nor  lounge  on 
your  seat,  nor  interrupt,  nor  contradict,  but  by  insinuation — you  never 
tell  unpleasant  news,  nor  make  ill-timed  observations.  Study  to 
please,  by  a respectful  demeanor  and  an  easy  gayety.  Never  be  rude 
or  boisterous  or  presuming.  In  short,  it  is  much  easier  to  tell  wha* 
you  should  not  do,  than  what  you  should — but  there  is  one  important 
direction,  “ never  wear  out  your  welcome.”  It  is  well  to  know  how 
to  enter  a room,  but  it  is  much  better  to  know  when  and  how  to  leave 
it.  If  you  have  made  a good  impression,  a long  story  may  wear  it 
cff—  if  a bad  one,  being  tedious  only  makes  it  worse.  Don’t  stand 
hammering  and  fumbling,  and  saying,  “ Well,  I guess  I must  be  go- 
ing.” When  you  are  ready,  go  at  once.  It  is  very  easy  to  say, 
“ Miss  Susan,  your  company  is  so  agreeable,  that  I am  staying  longer 
than  I intended,  but  I hope  to  have  the  pleasure  of  seeing  you  soon 
again ; I wish  you  a good  morning  ;”  and,  bowing,  smiling,  shaking 
hands,  if  the  hand  be  proffered,  you  leave  the  room,  if  possible  with- 
out turning  your  back ; you  bow  again  at  the  front  door,  and  if  any 
eyes  are  following  you,  you  still  turn  and  raise  your  hat  in  the  street. 

(5.)  Introductions. 

The  rule  is,  never  to  introduce  one  person  to  another  without  know- 
ing that  it  is  agreeable  to  both.  Ladies  are  always  to  be  consulted 
beforehand.  Gentlemen  are  to  be  introduced  to  ladies,  not  ladies  to 
gentlemen.  In  other  cases,  the  younger  to  the  elder.  Where  per- 
sons are  equal,  we  “ introduce”  them.  Where  there  is  much  differ- 
ence in  age  or  station,  we  “ present.9’ 

A common  form  is,  “ Mr.  Jones,  Mr.  Smith — Mr.  Smith,  Mr.  Jones.” 
Messrs.  Jones  and  Smith  bow,  shake  hands,  express  their  happiness 
at  being  made  acquainted  with  each  other. 

When  more  ceremony  is  required,  the  introducer  says,  “ Miss 
Smith,  permit  me  to  introduce  Mr.  Jones  to  your  acquaintance,”  or, 
“ allow  me  to  present.” 

Coffee-house,  steamboat,  and  stage-coach  acquaintances  last  only 
for  the  time  being.  You  are  not  obliged  to  know  them  afterwards, 
however  familiar  for  the  time,  no  more  than  a lady  is  required  to  recog- 
nize a gentleman  with  whom  she  has  danced  at  a public  ball. 


(6.)  Behavior  at  Dinner. 

There  is  no  situation  in  which  one’s  breeding  is  more  observed,  than 
at  the  dinner-table  ; our  work  would  therefore  be  incomplete  without 
the  proper  directions  as  to  its  etiquette. 

If  there  are  ladies,  gentlemen  offer  their  arms,  and  conduct  them  to 
the  dining-room,  according  to  their  age  or  the  degree  of  respect  to  be 
shown  them. 

The  lady  of  the  house  sits  at  the  head  of  the  table,  and  the  gentle- 
man opposite  at  the  foot.  The  place  of  honor  for  gentlemen  is  on 
each  side  of  the  mistress  of  the  house — for  ladies,  on  each  side  of  the 
master.  The  company  should  be  so  arranged  that  each  lady  will  have 


16 


ART  OF  GOOD  BEHAVIOR. 


some  gentleman  at  her  side  to  assist  her.  Of  course  it  is  every  gen- 
tleman’s duty,  first  of  all  to  see  that  ladies  near  him  are  attended  to. 

When  napkins  are  provided,  they  are  at  once  carefully  unfolded, 
and  laid  on  the  knees.  Observe  if  grace  is  to  be  said,  and  keep  a 
proper  decorum.  If  soup  is  served,  take  a piece  of  bread  in  the  left 
hand,  and  the  spoon  in  the  right,  and  sip  noiselessly  from  the  side  of 
the  spoon.  Do  not  take  two  plates  of  the  same  kind  of  soup,  and 
! never  tip  up  the  plate. 

When  regular  courses  are  served,  the  next  dish  is  fish.  If  silver  or 
I wide-pronged  forks  are  used,  eat  with  the  fork  in  the  right  hand — the 
I knife  is  unnecessary. 

Next  come  the  roast  and  boiled  meats.  If  possible,  the  knife  should 
never  be  put  in  the  mouth  at  all,  and  if  at  all,  let  the  edge  be  turned 
I outward.  Anything  taken  into  the  mouth  not  fit  to  be  swallowed, 

I should  be  quietly  removed  with  the  fingers  of  the  left  hand,  to  that 
side  of  the  plate.  The  teeth  should  be  picked  as  little  as  possible,  and 
I never  with  the  fork  or  fingers.  Carefully  abstain  from  every  act  oi 
j observation  that  may  cause  disgust,  such  as  spitting,  blowing  the  nose 
gulping,  rinsing  the  mouth,  &c.  Should  a gentleman  send  you  wine 
at  a public  table,  or  ask  the  honor  of  a glass  with  you,  observe  when 
he  raises  his  glass,  and  do  the  same,  bowing,  whether  you.  drink  or  not. 

When  the  ladies  leave  the  table,  which  they  do  together  at  the  sig- 
nal of  the  mistress  of  the  house,  the  gentlemen  rise  and  conduct  them 
to  the  door  of  the  apartment,  and  then  return  to  the  table.  This  is  in 
formal  parties. 

If  at  dinner  you  are  requested  to  help  any  one  to  sauce,  do  not  pour 
it  over  the  meat  or  vegetables,  but  on  one  side.  If  you  should  have 
to  carve  and  help  a joint,  do  not  load  a person’s  plate — it  iswulgar: 
also  in  serving  soup,  one  ladleful  to  each  plate  is  sufficient. 

Eat  peas  with  a dessert  spoon  ; and  curry  also.  Tarts  and  pud- 
dings are  to  be  eaten  with  a spoon. 

As  a general  rule,  in  helping  any  one  at  table,  never  use  a knife 
when  you  can  use  a spoon. 

Making  a noise  in  chewing,  or  breathing  hard  in  eating,  are  both 
unseemly  habits,  and  ought  to  be  eschewed. 

I Never  pare  an  apple  or  a pear  for  a lady  unless  she  desire  you,  and 
then  be  careful  to  use  your  fork  to  hold  it ; you  may  sometimes  offer  • 
| to  divide  a very  large  pear  with  or  for  a person. 

At  some  tables,  large  colored  glasses,  partly  filled  with  water,  with 
a bit  of  lemon,  are  brought  when  the  cloth  is  removed.  You  dip  a 
corner  of  your  napkin  in  the  water,  and  wipe  your  mouth,  then  rinse 
your  fingers  and  wipe  them  on  your  napkin. 

The  best  general  rule  for  a person  unacquainted  with  the  usages 
of  society,  is  to  be  cautious,  pay  attention,  and  do  as  he  sees  others  do, 
who  ought  to  know  what  is  proper.  Most  of  our  blunders  are  the  re- 
sult of  haste  and  want  of  observation. 

(7.)  On  Conversation . 

The  object  of  conversation  is  to  entertain  and  amuse.  To  be  agree- 
able, you  must  learn  to  be  a good  listener.  A man  who  monopolizes 
a conversation  is  a bore , no  matter  how  great  his  knowledge. 


ART  OF  GOOD  BEHAVIOR. 


1/ 


Never  get  into  a dispute.  State  your  opinions,  but  do  not  argue 
them.  Do  not  contradict,  and,  above  all,  never  offend  by  correcting 
mistakes  or  inaccuracies  of  fact  or  expression. 

Never  lose  temper — never  notice  a slight — never  seen  conscious  of 
an  affront,  unless  it  is  of  a gross  character,  and  then  punish  it  at 
once.  You  can  never  quarrel  in  the  presence  of  ladies,  bit  a personal 
indignity  may  be  avenged  anywhere . 

You  are  not  required  to  defend  your  friends  in  company,  unless  the 
conversation  is  addressed  to  you ; but  you  may  correct  a statement  Oi 
fact,  if  you  knovj  it  to  be  wrong. 

Never  talk  at  people  by  hints,  slurs,  innuendoes,  and  such  mean  de- 
vices. Jf  you  have  anything  to  say,  out  with  it.  Nothing  charms 
more  than  candor,  when  united  with  good  breeding.  » 

Do  not  call  people  by  their  names,  in  speaking  to  them.  In  speak- 
ing of  your  own  children,  never  “ Master”  and  £<  Miss”  them — in 
speaking  to  other  people  of  theirs,  never  neglect  to  do  so. 

It  is  very  vulgar  to  talk  in  a loud  tone,  and  indulge  in  horse-laughs. 
Be  very  careful  in  speaking  of  subjects  upon  which  you  are  not  ac- 
quainted. Much  is  to  be  learned  by  confessing  your  ignorance — 
nothing  can  be  by  pretending  to  knowledge  which  you  do  not  pos- 
sess. 

Never  tell  long  stories.  Avoid  all  common  slang  phrases  and  pet 
words. 

Of  all  things,  don’t  attempt  to  be  too  fine.  Use  good  honest  English 
— and  common  words  for  common  things.  If  you  speak  of  breeches, 
shirts,  or  petticoats,  call  them  by  their  right  names.  The  vulgarity  is 
in  avoiding  them. 

(8.)  General  Rules  of  Behavior. 

Having  dressed  yourself,  pay  no  farther  attention  to  your  clothes. 
Few  things  look  worse  than  a continual  fussing  with  your  attire. 

Never  scratch  your  head,  pick  your  teeth,  clean  your  nails,  or,  worse 
than  all,  pick  your  nose,  in  company  ; all  these  things  are  disgusting. 
Spit  as  little  as  possible,  and  never  upon  the  floor. 

Do  not  lounge  on  sofas,  nor  tip  back  your  chair,  nor  elevate  your 
feet. 

If  you  are  going  into  the  company  of  ladies,  beware  of  onions,  spir- 
its, and  tobacco. 

If  you  can  sing  or  play,  do  so  at  once  when  requested,  without  re- 
quiring to  be  pressed,  or  making  a fuss.  On  the  other  hand,  let  your 
performance  be  brief,  or,  if  never  so  good,  it  will  be  tiresome.  When 
a lady  sits  down  to  the  piano  forte,  some  gentleman  should  attend  her, 
arrange  the  music  stool,  and  turn  over  the  leaves. 

Meeting  friends  in  a public  promenade,  you  salute  them  the  first 
time  in  passing,  and  not  every  time  you  meet. 

Never  tattle,  nor  repeat  in  one  society  any  scandal  or  personal 
matter  you  hear  in  another.  Give  your  own  opinion  of  people  if  you 
please,  but  never  repeat  that  of  others. 

Meeting  an  acquaintance  among  strangers,  in  the  street  or  a cof- 
fee-house, never  address  him  by  name.  It  is  vulgar  and  annoying. 


18 


HOW  TO  GET  RICH. 


HOW  TO  GET  RICH. 

What  will  my  reader  give  to  know  how  to  get  rich  ? Now,  I wil 
not  vouch  that  the  following  rules  will  enable  every  person  who  may 
read  them  to  acquire  wealth,  but  this  I will  answer  for,  that  if  ever  "a 
man  does  grow  rich  by  honest  means,  and  retains  his  wealth  for  any 
length  of  time,  he  must  practise  upon  the  principles  laid  down  in  the 
following  essay.  The  remarks  are  not  original  with  me,  but  I strongly 
commend  them  to  the  attention  of  every  young  man,  at  least  as  afford- 
ing the  true  secret  of  success  in  attaining  wealth.  A single  perusal 
of  such  an  essay,  at  an  impressible  moment,  has  sometimes  a very 
wanderful  effect  upon  the  disposition  and  character. 


Fortune,  they  say,  is  a fickle  dame — full  of  her  freaks  and  caprices ; 
who  blindly  distributes  her  favors  without  the  slightest  discrimination. 
So  inconstant,  so  wavering  is  she  represented,  that  her  most  faithful 
votaries  can  place  no  reliance  on  her  promises.  Disappointment,  they 
tell  us,  is  the  lot  of  those  who  make  offerings  at  her  shrine.  Nov/, 
all  this  is  a vile  slander  upon  the  dear  blind  lady. 

Although  wealth  often  appears  the  result  of  mere  accident,  or  a for- 
tunate concurrence  of  favorable  circumstances,  without  any  exertion 
of  skill  or  foresight,  yet  every  man  of  sound  health  and  unimpaired 
mind  may  become  wealthy,  if  he  takes  the  proper  steps. 

Foremost  in  the  the  list  of  requisites,  are  honesty  and  strict  integ- 
rity in  every  transaction  of  life.  Let  a man  have  the  reputation  of 
being  fair  and  upright  in  his  dealings,  and  he  will  possess  the  confi- 
dence of  all  who  know  him.  Without  these  qualities,  every  other 
merit  will  prove  unavailing.  Ask  concerning  a man,  “ is  he  active 
and  capable?”  Yes.  “Industrious,  temperate,  and  regular  in  his 
habits  ?”  O,  yes.  “ Is  he  honest  ? is  he  trustworthy  ?”  Why,  as 
to  that,  I am  sorry  to  say  that  he  is  not  to  be  trusted ; he  wants  watch- 
ing ; he  is  a little  tricky,  and  will  take  an  undue  advantage,  if  he  can, 
“ Then  I will  have  nothing  to  do  with  him will  be  the  invariable 
reply.  Why,  then,  is  honesty  the  best  policy  ? Because,  without  it, 
you  will  get  a bad  name,  and  everybody  will  shun  you. 

A character  for  knavery  will  prove  an  insurmountable  obstacle  to 
success  in  almost  every  undertaking.  It  will  be  found  that  the  straight 
line  is,  in  business,  as  in  geometry,  the  shortest.  In  a word,  it  is  almost 
impossible  for  a dishonest  man  to  acquire  wealth  by  a regular  process 
of  business,  because  he  is  shunned  as  as  a depredator  upon  society. 

Needy  men  are  apt  to  deviate  from  the  rule  of  integrity,  under  the 
plea  that  necessity  knows  no  law  : they  might  as  well  add,  that  it 
knows  no  shame.  The  course  is  suicidal,  and  by  destroying  all  con- 
fidence, ever  keeps  them  immured  in  poverty,  although  they  may  pos- 
sess every  other  quality  for  success  in  the  world. 

Punctuality,  which  is  said  to  be  -he  soul  of  business,  is  another  im- 
portant element  in  the  art  of  money-getting.  The  man  known  t(  be 


\ "* 


HOW  TO  »ET  RICH.  ID 

scrupulously  exact  in  the  fulfillment  of  his  engagements,  gams  the 
confidence  of  all,  and  may  command  all  the  means  he  can  use  to  ad- 
vantage ; whereas,  a man  careless  and  regardless  of  his  promises  in 
money  matters,  will  have  every  purse  closed  against  him.  Therefore 
be  prompt  in  your  payments. 

Next,  let  us  consider  the  advantages  of  a cautious  circumspection 
in  our  intercourse  with  the  world.  Slowness  of  belief,  and  a proper 
distrust  are  essential  to  success.  The  credulous  and  confiding  are 
ever  the  dupes  of  knaves  and  impostors.  Ask  those  who  have  lost 
their  property,  how  it  happened,  and  you  will  find  in  most  cases  it 
has  been  owing  to  misplaced  confidence.  One  has  lost  by  endorsing ' 
another  by  crediting ; another  by  false  representations  ; all  of  which 
a little  more  foresight  and  a little  more  distrust  would  have  prevented. 
In  the  affairs  of  this  world,  men  are  not  saved  by  faith,  but  by  the  want 
of  it. 

Judge  of  men  by  what  they  do,  not  by  what  they  say.  Believe  in 
looks,  rather  than  in  words.  Observe  all  their  movements.  Ascer- 
tain their  motives  and  their  ends.  Notice  what  they  say  and  do  in 
their  unguarded  moments,  when  under  the  influence  of  excitement. 
The  passions  have  been  compared  to  tortures,  which  force  men  to 
reveal  their  secrets.  Before  trusting  a man,  before  putting  it  in  his 
power  to  cause  you  a loss,  possess  yourself  of  every  available  infor- 
mation relative  to  him.  Learn  his  history,  his  habits,  inclinations  and 
propensities  ; his  reputation  for  honesty,  industry,  frugality,  and  punc- 
tuality ; his  prospects,  resources,  supports,  advantages  and  disadvan- 
tages ; his  intentions  and  motives  of  action ; who  are  his  friends  and 
enemies,  and  what  are  his  good  or  bad  qualities.  You  may  learn  a 
man’s  good  qualities  and  advantages  from  his  friends — >his  bad  qualities 
and  disadvantages  from  his  enemies.  Make  due  allowance  for  exag- 
geration in  both.  Finally,  examine  carefully  before  engaging  in  any- 
thing, and  act  with  energy  afterwards.  Have  the  hundred  eyes  of 
Argus  beforehand,  and  the  hundred  hands  of  Briarius  afterwards. 

Order  and  system  in  the  management  of  business  must  not  be  ne- 
glected. Nothing  contributes  more  to  despatch.  Have  a place  for 
everything,  and  everything  in  its  place ; a time  for  everything,  and 
everything  in  its  time.  Do  first  what  presses  most,  and  having  deter- 
mined what  is  to  be  done,  and  how  it  is  to  be  done,  lose  no  time  in 
doing  it.  Without  this  method,  all  is  hurry  and  confusion,  little  or 
nothing  is  accomplished,  and  business  is  attended  to  with  neither 
pleasure  nor  profit. 

A polite,  affable  deportment  is  recommended.  Agreeable  manners 
contribute  powerfully  to  a man’s  success.  Take  two  men,  possessing 
equal  advantages  in  every  other  respect,  but  let  one  be  gentlemanly, 
kind,  obliging,  and  conciliating  in  his  manners  ; the  other  harsh,  rude, 
and  disobliging,  and  the  one  will  become  rich,  where  the  other  will 
starve. 

We  are  now  to  consider  a very  important  principle  in  the  bqsiness 
of  money-getting,  namely — Industry — persevering  indefatigable  at- 
tention to  business.  Persevering  diligence  is  the  Philosopher’s  stone, 
which  turns  everything  to  gold.  Constant,  regular,  habitual,  and  sys- 


# 


20  HOW  TO  GET  RICH. 

tematic  application  to  business  must,  in  time,  if  properly  directed,  pro* 
duc-s  great  results.  It  must  lead  to  wealth,  with  the  same  certainty 
thax  poverty  follows  in  the  train  of  idleness  and  inattention.  It  has 
been  truly  remarked,  that  he  who  follows  his  amusements  instead  of 
his  business,  will,  in  a short  time,  have  no  business  to  follow. 

The  art  of  money-saving  is  an  important  part  of  the  art  of  money-get- 
ting. Without  frugality  no  one  can  become  rich  ; with  it,  few  would 
be  poor.  Those  who  consume  as  fast  as  they  produce,  are  on  the  road 
to' ruin.  As  most  of  the  poverty  we  meet  with  grows  out  of  idleness 
and  extravagance,  so  most  large  fortunes  have  been  the  result  of  ha- 
bitual industry  and  frugality.  The  practice  of  economy  is  as  neces- 
, sary  in  the  expenditure  of  time  as  of  money.  They  say  that,  if  “ we 
take  care  of  the  pence,  the  pounds  will  take  care  of  themselves.” 
So,  if  we  take  care  of  the  minutes,  the  days  will  take  care  of  them- 
selves. 

The  acquisition  of  wealth  demands  as  much . self-denial,  and  as 
many  sacrifices  of  present  gratification,  as  the  practice  of  virtue 
itself.  Vice  and  poverty  proceed,  in  some  degree,  from  the  same 
sources,  namely — the  disposition  to  sacrifice  the  future  to  the  present ; 
the  inability  to  forego  a small  present  pleasure  for  great  future  advan- 
tages. Men  fail  of  fortune  in  this  world,  as  they  fail  of  happiness  in 
the  world  to  come,  simply  because  they  are  unwilling  to  deny  them- 
selves momentary  enjoyments  for  the  sake  of  permanent  future  hap- 
piness. 

Every  large  city  is  filled  with  persons,  who,  in  order  to  support  the 
appearance  of  wealth,  constantly  live  beyond  their  income,  and  make 
up  the  deficiency  by  contracting  debts  which  are  never  paid.  Others 
there  are,  the  mere  drones  of  society,  who  pass  their  days  in  idleness, 
and  subsist  by  pirating  on  the  hives  of  the  industrious.  Many  who 
run  a short-lived  career  of  splendid  beggary,  could  they  but  be  per- 
suaded to  adopt  a system  of  rigid  economy  for  a few  years,  might  pass 
the  remainder  of  their  days  in  affluence.  But  no ! They  must  keep 
up  appearances , they  must  live  like  other  folks.  Their  debts  accumu- 
late ; their  credit  fails  ; they  are  harrassed  by  duns,  and  besieged  by 
constables  and  sheriffs.  In  this  extremity,  as  a last  resort,  they  often 
submit  to  a shameful  dependence,  or  engage  in  criminal  practices, 
which  entail  hopeless  wretchedness  and  infamy  on  themselves  and 
families. 

Stick  to  the  business  in  which  you  are  regularly  employed.  Let 
speculators  make  their  thousands  in  a year  or  day ; mind  your  own 
regular  trade,  never  turning  from  it  to  the  right  hand  or  the  left  If 
you  are  a merchant,  a professional  man,  or  a mechanic,  never  buy  lots 
or  stocks  unless  you  have  siirplus  money  which  you  wish  to  invest. 
Your  own  business  you  understand  as  well  as  other  men ; but  other 
people’s  business  you  do  not  understand.  Let  your  business  be  some 
one  which  is  useful  to  the  community.  All  such  occupations  possess 
the  elements  of  profit  in  themselves. 


ON  THE  CHOICE  OF  MEATS,  AND  BOW  TO  COOK  THEM.  21 

ON  THE  CHOICE  OF  MEATS,  AND  HOW  TO 
COOK  THEM. 

This  is  one  of  the  most  important  branches  of  household  affairs. 
There  is  not  one  person  in  fifty  who  is  capable  of  selecting  good  meats, 
if  his  butcher  chooses  to  impose  upon  him  ; and  as  for  cooking,  I sup- 
pose every  one  will  admit  there  is  room  enough  for  reform  in  this  de- 
partment, all  the  world  over.  I have  therefore  taken  pains  to  prepare 
a complete  system  of  rules  and  observations  by  which  any  person  of 
ordinary  prudence  and  sagacity  can  not  only  purchase  good  meats,  but 
have  them  cooked  properly. 


(1.)  Venison. 

If  the  fat  be  clear,  bright,  and  thick,  and  the  cleft  part  smooth  and 
close,  it  is  young  ; but  if  the  cleft  is  wide  and  tough,  it  is  old. 

(2.)  Beef. 

If  the  flesh  of  ox-beef  "be  young,  it  will  have  a fine,  smooth,  open 
grain,  be  of  good  red,  and  feel  tender.  The  fat  should  look  white 
rather  than  yellow  ; for  when  that  is  of  a deep  color,  the  meat  is  sel- 
dom good ; beef  fed  by  oil  cakes  is  in  general  so,  and  the  flesh  is 
flabby. 

In  roasting  beef,  ten  pounds  will  take  above  two  hours  and  a half: 
twenty  pounds,  three  hours  and  three  quarters. 

(3.)  Veal . 

The  flesh  of  a bull-calf  is  firmest,  but  not  so  white.  The  fillet  of 
the  cow-calf  is  generally  preferred  for  the  udder.  The  whitest  is  the 
most  juicy,  having  been  made  so  by  frequent  bleeding. 

Yeal  and  mutton  should  have  a little  paper  put  over  the  fat  to  pre- 
serve it.  If  not  fat  enough  to  allow  for  basting,  a little  good  dripping 
answers  as  well  as  butter. 

(4.)  Mutton. 

Choose  this  by  the  fineness  of  its  grain,  good  color,  and  firm  white  fat. 

A neck  of  mutton  will  take  an  hour  and  a half,  if  kept  a proper  dis- 
tance. A chin  of  pork,  two  hours. 

(5.)  Lamb. 

Observe  the  neck  of  a fore-quarter ; if  the  vein  is  bluish,  it  is  fresh ; 
if  it  has  a green  or  yellow  cast,  it  is  stale. 

(6.)  Pork. 

Pinch  the  lean,  and  if  young  it  will  break.  If  the  rind  be  tough, 
thick,  and  cannot  easily  be  impressed  by  the  finger,  it  is  old.  A thin 
rind  is  a merit  in  all  pork.  When  fresh,  the  flesh  will  be  smooth  and 
tool ; if  clammy,  it  is  tainted. 


22 


ON  THE  CHOICE  OF  MEATS,  AND  HOW  TO  COOK  THEM. 

A leg  of  pork,  or  lamb,  takes  the  allowance  of  twenty  minva*5S» 
above  a quarter  of  an  hour,  to  a pound. 

(7.)  Bacon . 

If  the  rind  is  thin,  the  fat  firm,  and  of  a red  tinge,  the  lean  tender, 
of  a good  color,  and  adhering  to  the  bone,  you  may  conclude  it  good, 
and  not  old. 

(8.)  Hams . 

Stick  a sharp  knife  under  the  bone : if  it  comes  out  clean,  with  a 
pleasant  smell,  the  ham  is  good  ; but  if  the  knife  is  daubed,  and  has  a 
bad  scent,  do  not  buy  it. 

A ham  of  twenty  pounds  will  take  four  hours  and  a half,  and  oth- 
ers  in  proportion. 

A tongue,  if  dry,  takes  four  hours  slow  boiling,  after  soaking ; a 
tongue  out  of  pickle,  from  two  hours  and  a half  to  three  hours,  or 
more  if  very  large ; it  must  be  judged  by  feeling  whether  it  is  very 
tender. 

Put  the  meat  in  cold  water,  and  flour  it  well  first.  Meat  boiled 
quick  will  be  hard ; but  care  must  be  taken  that  in  boiling  slow'  it 
does  not  stop,  or  the  meat  will  be  under-done. 

If  the  steam  is  kept  in,  the  water  will  not  lessen  much ; therefore, 
when  you  wish  it  to  boil  away,  take  off  the  cover  of  the  soup-pot. 

Vegetables  should  not  be  dressed  with  the  meat,  except  carrots  or 
parsnips  with  boiled  beef. 

Weigh  the  meat ; and  allow  for  all  solid  joints  a quarter  of  an  hour 
for  every  pound,  and  some  minutes  (from  ten  to  twenty)  over,  accord- 
ing as  the  family  like  it  done. 

The  meat  should  be  put  at  a good  distance  from  the  fire,  and 
brought  gradually  nearer  when  the  inner  part  becomes  hot,  which  will 
prevent  its  being  scorched  while  yet  raw.  Meat  should  be  much 
basted,  and,  when  nearly  done,  floured,  to  make  it  look  frothed. 

In  roasting  meat,  it  is  a very  good  way  to  put  a little  salt  and  water 
into  the  dripping-pan,  and  baste  for  a while  with  it,  before  using  its 
own  fat  or  dripping.  When  dry,  dust  it  with  flour,  and  baste  as  usual. 

Salting  meat  before  it  is  put  to  roast  draws  out  the  gravy ; it  should 
only  be  sprinkled  when  almost  done. 

(9.)  For  Roasting. 

The  cook  must  order  a fire  according  to  what  she  is  to  dress.  If 
anything  little  or  thin,  then  a brisk  little  fire,  that  it  may  be  done  quick 
and  nice.  If  a very  large  joint,  be  sure  that  a good  fire  is  laid  to 
cake : let  it  be  clear  at  the  bottom,  and  when  the  meat  is  half  done, 
move  the  dripping-pan  and  spit  a little  from  the  fire,  and  stir  it  up. 
The  spit  ought  to  be  kept  very  clean,  and  ought  to  be  rubbed  with 
nothing  but  sand  and  water.  Wipe  it  with  a dry  cloth,  Oil,  brick- 
dust,  &c  , will  spoil  the  meat. 

(10.)  To  Roast  Pork. 

When  you  roast  a loin,  take  a sharp  penknife  and 'cut  tire  skin 


Oh  THE  CHOICE  OF  MEATS,  AND  HOW  TO  COOK  THEM,  2 3 

across,  to  make  the  crackling  eat  the  better.  Roast  a leg  of  pork 
thus:  take  a knife  and  score  it ; stuff  the  knuckle  part  with  sage  and 
onion,  chopped  fine  with  pepper  and  salt ; or  cut  a hole  under  the 
twist,  and  put  the  sage,  &c.,  there,  and  skewer  it  up.  Roast  it  crisp. 
Make  apple-sauce  and  send  up  in  a boat ; then  have  a little  drawn 
gravy  to  put  in  the  dish.  This  is  called  a mock  goose.  The  spring, 
or  hand  of  pork,  if  young,  roasted  like  a pig,  eats  very  well ; other- 
wise it  is  better  boiled.  The  spare-rib  should  be  basted  with  a bit  of 
butter,  a little  flour,  and  some  sage  shred  small : never  make  any 
sauce  to  it  but  apple.  The  best  way  to  dress  pork  griskins  is  to  roast 
them,  baste  them  with  a little  butter  and  sage,  and  pepper  and  salt. 
Pork  must  be  well  done.  To  every  pound  allow  a quarter  of  an  hour : 
for  example,  a joint  of  twelve  pounds  weight  will  require  three  hours, 
and  so  on.  If  it  be  a thin  piece  of  that  weight,  two  hours  will  roast  it. 

(11.)  To  Roast  Veal. 

Be  careful  to  roast  veal  of  a fine  brown  color ; if  a large  joint, 
have  a good  fire  ; if  small,  a little  brisk  fire.  If  a fillet  or  a loin,  be 
sure  to  paper  the  fat,  that  you  lose  as  little  of  that  as  possible : lay  it 
at  some  distance  from  the  fire,  till  it  is  soaked ; then  lay  it  near  the  fire. 
When  you  lay  it  down,  baste  it  well  with  good  butter ; and  when  it 
is  near  done,  baste  it  again,  and  drudge  it  with  a little  flour.  The 
breast  must  be  roasted  with  the  caul  on  till  it  is  done  enough  ; skewer 
the  sweet-bread  on  the  back  side  of  the  breast.  When  it  is  nigh 
done,  take  off  the  caul,  baste  it,  and  drudge  it  with  a little  flour. 
Yeal  takes  much  about  the  same  time  in  roasting  as  pork. 

(12.)  To  Roast  Beef. 

Paper  the  top,  and  baste  it  well,  while  roasting,  with  its  own  drip- 
ping, and  throw  a handfull  of  salt  on  it.  When  you  see  the  smoke 
draw  to  the  fire,  it  is  near  enough  ; take  off  the  paper,  baste  it  well, 
and  drudge  it  with  a little  flour  to  make  a fine  froth.  Never  salt  roast 
meat  before  you  lay  it  to  the  fire,  for  it  draws  out  the  gravy.  If  you 
would  keep  it  a few  days  before  you  dress  it,  dry  it  with  a cloth,  and 
hang  it  where  the  air  will  come  to  it.  When  you  take  up  the  mc^t, 
garnish  the  dish  with  horseradish. 

(13.)  To  Roast  a Rig. 

Spit  a pig,  and  lay  it  to  the  fire,  which  must  be  a very  good  on©  at 
each  end,  or  hang  a flat  iron  in  the  middle  of  the  grate.  Before  you 
lay  the  pig  down,  take  a little  sage  shred  small,  a piece  of  butter  as 
big  as  a walnut,  and  pepper  and  salt ; put  them  in  the  pig,  and  gew 
it  up  with  a coarse  thread ; flour  it  well  over,  and  keep  flouring  till 
the  eyes  drop  out,  or  you  find  the  crackling  hard.  Be  sure  to  save 
all  the  gravy  that  comes  out  of  it,  by  setting  basins  or  pans  under  the 
pig  in  the  dripping-pan,  as  soon  as  the  gravy  begins  to  run.  When 
the  pig  is  done  enough,  stir  the  fire  up ; take  a coarse  cloth  with 
about  a quarter  of  a pound  of  butter  in  it,  and  rub  the  pig  over  till 
the  crackling  is  crisp ; then  take  it  up.  Lay  it  in  a dish,  and  with  a 
sharp  knife  cut  off  the  head,  then  cut  the  pig  in  two,  before  you  draw 


24 


ON  THE  CHOICE  OF  MEATS,  AND  HOW  TO  COOK  THEM 


out  the  spit.  Cut  the  ears  off  the  head,  and  lav  them  at  each  end 

, c’  ir  Kl  ,d  tde  day  before,  an  hour  and  a quarter  If  a vprv 
largeone,  an  hour  and  a half.  But  the  best  way  to  judge  is  when  the 

cLrsfXth  wSa^or?™  '*  g?TDg  ve7  hard;  then  rub  it  with  a 

- 45’*wSS,K,‘*'  ,o"  m “■  “ th« 

t,T'me’  dlstanc,e-  basting  often,  and  a clear  fire  of  a proper  size  for 
roasdng.reqlUred,are  &'St  articles  of  a g°od  -olf’s  "attemiont 

(14.)  To  Roast  Mutton  and  Lamb. 

J™t,n#  7utton’ the  loin>  haunch,  and  saddle,  must  be  done  as 

quick  c^Lffire  LPstet?r  EmUtt°n  f d-1Tb  muSt  be  roasted  with  a 
quick,  clear  tire , baste  it  when  you  lay  it  down;  and  just  before  vou 

take  it  up,  drudge  it  with  a little  flour;  but  be  sure  not  to  use^oo 

much,  for  that  takes  away  all  the  fine  taste  of  the  meat.  Some  choose 

th<f  v a r if  rauttorn’  and  roast  it  brown ; be  sure  always  to  take 
he  skin  ofi  a breast  of  mutton.  A leg  of  mutton  of  six  pounds  u iU 

Snp  n”  Tr  at  lqulck  f*re  5 lf  frosty  weather>  an  hour  andPa  quarter  • 
n ne  pounds  an  hour  and  a half ; a leg  of  twelve  pounds  will  take 
two  hours ; if  frosty,  two  hours  and  a half. 

(15.)  To  Roast  Venison. 

®P;,ta  ba"nch  °{  venison  and  butter  well  four  sheets  of  paper,  two 
which  put  on  the  haunch;  then  make  a paste  with  flour  butter 
and  water,  roll  it  out  half  as  big  as  the  haunch,  and  put  it  over  the 

packThread^lavff  T ^ 'l!'  .tvy°  ®heets  f PaPer  on,  and  tie  them  with 

“ * v"y  i*rso  *•> th™ 

(16.)  To  Roast  a Tongue  or  Udder. 

it  r°aSt  tt’  Stic,k  eight  or  ten  cloves  about  it.  baste 

H 7 ;tb  b.Jtt®r>  and  bave  gravy  and  sweet  sauce.  An  udder  eats  very 
deliciously  done  the  same  way.  ^ 

- (17.)  To  Roast  a Leg  of  Pork. 

S inalf 1<?g  ?f  y0U1!g  pork;  cut  a slit  in  the  knuckle 
'_  jh  a p knlfe>  and  ,nl1  the  space  with  sage  and  onion  chopped, 

Slil  k ! pepper  and,  salt-  When  half  done,  score  the  skin  in 

mmtae«Uihd°nnkt  CUt  deePerthan  tlle  outer  rind.  Apple-sauce  and 
potatoes  should  be  served  to  eat  with  it. 

(18.)  Rolled  Neclt  of  Pork. 

Bone  it  • put  a forcemeat  of  chopped  sage,  a very  few  crumbs  o' 


my  THE  CHOICE  OF  MEATS,  AND  HOW  TO  COOK  THEM.  25 

bread,  salt,  pepper,  and  two  or  three  berries  of  allspice  over  the  inside; 
then  roll  the  meat  as  tight  as  you  can,  and  roast  it  slowly,  and  at  a 
good  distance  at  first. 

(19.)  Spare  Rib. 

Should  be  basted  with  a very  little  butter,  and  a little  flour,  and 
then  sprinkle  with  a little  dried  sage  crumbled.  Apple-sauce  and  po- 
tatoes for  roasted  pork. 

(20.)  Beef  a*la-Mode . 

Choose  a piece  of  thick  flank  of  a fine ' heifer  or  ox,  cut  into  long 
slices  some  fat  bacon,  but  quite  free  from  yellow  ; let  each  bit  be  near 
an  inch  thick ; dip  them  into  vinegar,  and  then  into  a seasoning  ready 
prepared,  of  salt,  black  pepper,  allspice,  and  a clove,  all  in  a fine  pow- 
der, with  parsley,  chives,  thyme,  savory,  and  knotted  marjorum,  shred 
as  small  as  possible,  and  well  mixed.  With  a sharp  knife  make  holes 
deep  enough  to  let  in  the  larding,  then  rub  the  beef  over  with  the  sea- 
soning, and  hind  it  up  tight  with  tape.  Set  it  in  a well  tinned  pot  over 
a fire  or  rather  stove ; three  or  four  onions  must  he  fried  brown  and 
put  to  the  beef,  with  two  or  three  carrots,  one  turnip,  a head  or  two  of 
celery,  and  a small  quantity  of  water ; let  it  simmer  gently  ten  or 
twelve  hours,  or  till  extremely  tender,  turning  the  meat  twice. 

(21.)  Rolled  Beef  that  equals  Hare. 

Take  the  inside  of  a large  sirloin,  soak  it  in  a glass  of  vinegar  mix- 
ed, for  forty-eight  hours ; have  ready  a very  fine  stuffing,  and  bind  it 
up  tight.  Roast  it  on  a hanging  spit,  and  baste  it  with  a glass  of  port 
wine,  the  same  quantity  of  vinegar,  and  a teaspoonful  of  pounded 
allspice.  Larding  improves  the  look  and  flavor  : serve  with  rich  gravy 
in  the  dish  ; currant-jelly  and  melted  butter  in  tureens. 

(22.)  Leer  of  Veal 

Let  the  fillet  be  cut  large  or  small,  as  best  suits  the  number  of  your 
company.  Take  out  the  bone,  fill  the  space  with  fine  stuffing,  and  let 
it  be  skewered  quite  round  ; and  send  the  large  side  uppermost.  When 
half  roasted,  if  not  before,  put  a paper  over  the  fat ; and  take  care  to 
allow  a sufficient  time,  and  put  it  a good  distance  from  the  fire,  as  the 
meat  is  very  solid  : serve  with  melted  butter  poured  over  it.  You  may 
pot  some  of  it. 

(23.)  Stewed  Beef  Steaks. 

Beat  them  with  a rolling-pin,  flour  and  season,  then  fry  with  sliced 
onion  of  a fine  light  brown,  lay  the  steaks  into  a stew-pan,  and  pour 
as  much  boiling  water  over  them  as  will  serve  for  sauce;  stew  them 
very  gently  half  an  hour,  and  add  a spoonful  of  catsup,  or  walnut 
liquor,  before  you  serve. 

(24.)  Cucumber  Sauce. 

Put  into  a sauce-pan  a piece  of  butter  rolled  in  flour,  some  salt, 
pepper,  and  one  or  two  pickled  cucumbers  minced  fine.  Moisten  it 
with  boiling  water.  LeC  t stew  gently  a few  minutes,  and  serve  it  up. 

2 


26 


ON  THE  TREATMENT  OF  INFANTS.. 


ON  THE  TREATMENT  OF  INFANTS. 

Would  that  parents  generally,  were  aware  of  the  importance,  ami 
adequately  understood  the  principles,  of  properly  taking  care  of  chil- 
dien.  One-half  oi  the  diseasep»*of  mature  life  have  their  origin  in  our 
eariy  years. 

^ie  following  treatise  may  be  found  a complete  code  of  precepts 
for  the  bringing  up  of  children.  It  is  from  the  highest  medical  au- 
thority, and  I cannot  too  highly  commend  it  to  the  attention  of  all 
parents,  and  alb  those  who  ever  expect  to  become  such. 


' C1-)  Rules  fQr  Treatment  of  the  Child  after  Birth  and  before  Weamng . 

Give  the  breast  within  twelve  or  eighteen  hours  after  birth,  at  latest. 

Foment  the  breasts  with  warm  water  if  the  milk  does  not  flow ] 
avoid  rubbing  the  breasts  with  spirits. 

If  there  be  too  much  milk,  drink  little,  and  take  opening  medicine. 

As  a nurse,  wear  easjy  dresses  about  the  bosom  and  chest. 

Keep  down  the  tendency  of  the  abdomen  to  enlarge,  by  exercise. 

If  the  nipple  is  small,  or  turned  in,  have  it  drawn  by  an  older*  or 
stronger  infant,  not  by  artificial  means ; but  let  the  new-born  child 
have  the  first  milk. 

Choose  a hired  wet  nurse  [when  required]  nearly  of  the  same  age 
with  the  mother,  like  her  in  constitutional  peculiarities,  and  who  has 
been  confined  about  the  same  time. 

When  nursing,  live  on  nutritious  but  not  heavy  diet  A full  habit 
requires  less  nutriment  than  a delicate  constitution.  Stimulating 
liquors  are  to  be  avoided.  Simple  diluents,  such  as  tea,  are  quite 
enough  as  drinks  for  many  mothers. 

The  mother’s  milk  is  the  best  food  for  the  new-born  child  for  three 
months. 

An  infant  fiom  two  to  four  months  old  requires  to  be  suckled  once 
about  every  three  hours.. 

The  best  substitute  for  the  breast,  but  as  temporal  v as  possible,  is 
asses’  or  diluted  cows’  milk ; but  on  no  account  shofild  farinaceous 
food  be  given  at  this  early  period. 

Apply  a flannel  bandage  to  the  lower  part  of  the  body  in  bowel 
complaints.  A warm  bath  soothes  irritation. 

After  six  months  an  approach  may  be  rhade  to  more  sol'd  diet. 

Raise  up  the  child  after  feeding. 

Give  no  stimulants,  carraway- seeds,  carminatives,  &c. ; they  are 
most  pernicious. 

Give  as  little  medicine  to  a child  as  possible,  and  always  by  advice. 

' Never  over-feed,  and  never  stop  crying  by  feeding. 

Avoid  rough  jolting  and  patting'of  the  back. 

Train  an  infant  to  regularity  in  all  its  wants. 

(2.)  Rules  for  Weaning. 

Wean  gradually,  discontinuing  suckling  in  the  night : the  gradual 


ON  THE  TREATMENT  OF  INFANT'S. 


ll 

change  is  beneficial  to  both  mower  and  child.  Avoid  weaning  in 
severe  weather.  Take  for  yourself  a cooling  purgative,  and  refrain 
from  fluids  and  stimulating  diet. 

In  weaning,  apply  to  the  breasts  three  ounces  compound  soap  lini- 
ment, three  drachms  laudaifum,  one  drachm  camphor  liniment.  If 
this  be  too  irritating,  foment  with  warm  water*  or  poppy-heads  and 
chamomile  flowers  boiled  together  in  water.  Avoid  tightness  or  pres- 
sure from  the  dress,  and  all  roughness,  for  fear  of  .abscess*  Avoid 
drawing  the  breasts  ! avoid  exposure  to  cold. 

(3.)  Rules  for  Treatment  after  Weaning — Food.  v 

Study  the  child’s  constitution,  digestive  powers*  teeth,  strength,  and 
proportion  the  kind  and  quantity  of  food. 

Animal  food,  in  small  quantity,  once  a day,  if  the  teeth  can  masti- 
cate, is  necessary  when  there  is  rapid  growth. 

Avoid  too  nourishing  a diet  with  a violent  tempered  child. 

Give  a nourishing  diet  to  a white-looking, ^Jbphatic  child. 

Both  over-feeding  and  under-feeding  produces  crofula  and  consump- 
tion. 

The  spoiled  and  petted  child  is  injured  both  in  health  and  temper. 

Avoid  seasoned  dishes,  fried  and  salted  meats,  pastry,  uncooked 
vegetables,  unripe  fruits,  wine  and  rich  cake. 

Insist  on  thorough  chewing  or  mastication. 

Never  tempt  the  appetite  when  disinclined. 

Vary  the  food  from  day  to  day,  but  avoid  variety  at  one  meal. 

Animal  food  should  be  tender,  and  eaten  with  a little  salt,  vegeta 
hies,  and  bread. 

Take  care  that  the  child’s  food  is  well  cooked.  Give  no  new  bread. 

Sweetmeats  and  confections  are  only  to  be  given  to  children  in  a 
very  sparing  manner,  if  given  at  all.  Never  pamper  or  reward  with 
eatables. 

(4.)  Rules  for  Sleep. 

Allow  the  child  plenty  of  sleep,  without  disturbance. 

Avoid  accustoming  the  child  to  sleep  on  the  lap  ; it  will  not  sleep  m 
bed  if  so  accustomed. 

Establish  times  for  regular  sleeping. 

Keep  the  hands,  feet,  and  face  comfortably  warm— blankets  are 
better  than  sheets. 

Support  every  part  of  the  body,  raising  by  a slope  the  head  and 
shoulders. 

Avoid  laying  the  child  in  the  same  bed  with  an  adult,  unless  for  a 
short  time,  to  restore  warmth  if  it  fail. 

Never  rouse  the  child  by  play  when  taken  up  during  the  night. 

(5.)  Rules  for  Clothing. 

In  the  first  stage  of  infancy,  warmth  depends  on  clothing  alone,  foi 
there  is  no  muscular  movement. 

Avoid  a degree,  of  warmth  which  produces  sensible  perspiration. 

Flannel  and  calico  are  the  best  materials  in  all  seascns. 


£8  ON  TtiK  TREATMENT  OF  INFANTS* 

Dress  the  child  loosely,  and  fasflen  with  strings,  not  with  phis* 

The  umbilical  cord,  navel,  and  nelly-band;  require  much  attention* 

Avoid  keeping  the  child’s  head  too  warm,  or  its  feet  cold. 

Avoid  chilling  the  child,  or  taking  it  abroad  in  cold  weather,. 

Attend  to  the  form  and  size  of  the  child’s  shoes,  so  that  the  feel 
shall  not  be  cramped. 

The  practice  of  plunging  infants  into  cold  water,  to  render  them 
hardy,  is  exceedingly  dangerous. 

Let  a child’s  washing  be  very  completely  and  carefully  performed. 
Keep  the  child  always  perfectly  clean  and  neat. 

Be  very  attentive  to  ventilate  the  apartment  where  a child  lives,  but 
never  expose  it  to  draughts  of  air. 

Begin  early  to  form  habits  of  personal  cleanliness  and  delicacy* 

(6.)  Vaccination. 

Let  the  child  be  vaccinated  from  six  weeks  to  two  months  after 
birth,  and  that  by  a proper  medical  attendant.  Vaccination  should 
take  place  before  teething. 

(7.)  Deformities  and  Distortions * 

Consult  the  surgeon  upon  the  first  appearance  of  any  deformity  ; 
and  do  not  allow  fears  for  giving  pain  to  the  child  prevent  the  use  of 
the  necessary  remedies. 

Be  very  vigilant  with  rickets  or  soft  bones.  Never  allow  the  rick- 
ety child  to  support  its  own  weight.  It  ought  to  be  kept  on  its  back 
for  many  months,  and  carried  about  on  a little  mattress  on  a board  or 
tray,  and  have  nourishing  diet,  and  the  proper  medicines  to  give  solidity 
to  the  bones. 

Never  jerk  or  swing  children  by  the  arms  ; much  mischief  has  been 
done  by  this  practice. 

When  a child  falls,  or  meets  with  any  accident,  it  is  highly  culpa* 
ble  in  a nurse  to  conceal  it.  If  she  do  not  immediately  mention  it* 
she  may  be  the  cause  of  the  child’s  deformity  and  lameness  for  life. 

With  proper  attention,  a tendency  to  be  left-handed  may  be  easily 
cured  in  a child. 

Prevent  all  tricks  and  ill-habits  which  injure  the  features  and  or* 
gans ; such  as  stuffing  the  nostrils,  ears,  &c.,  distending  the  mouth 
with  too  large  a spoon* 

Curvature  of  the  spine  is  of  very  frequent  occurrence  from  misman* 
aging  children,  by  tight  lacing,  long  sitting  without  support  to  the 
back— (all  school  seats  and  forms  should  have  backs).  Take  all  de* 
formities  of  the  spine  in  time,  before  they  get  fixed* 

(3.)  Precocity. 

When  a child  appears  to  be  over-intelligent,  or  too  clever  or  wise 
for  its  age,  this  is  a symptom  of  an  unnatural  development  of  the 
brain  ; it  is  a kind  of  disease.  Avoid,  therefore,  exercising  the  child’s 
ability : treat  it  as  an  animal,  with  nutritive  food,  muscular,  out-door 
exercise,  and  plenty  of  sleep;  and  do  this,  and  this  only , for  some 
years. 


ON  THE  TREATMENT  OF  INFANTS.  29 

No  child  should  be  kept  for  more  than  a few  minutes  at  a time  en- 
gaged in  mental  study. 

(9.)  Stammering  and  Defective  Articulation. 

This  defect,  with  care,  may  be  cured  ; or  rather,  when  it  is  first 
threatened,  it  may  be  prevented.  Practise  the  child  in  letters  or  artic- 
ulations where  a peculiar  defect  appears. 

(10.)  Squinting. 

Watch  this  very  common  weakness  ; check  it  in  the  infant  by  hold- 
ing the  hand  over  the  eyes  till  they  are  shut ; and  when  opened  again, 
if  they  have  not  assumed  a proper  position,  repeat  the  operation.  It 
may  have  often  to  be  repeated.  Careless  nurses  are  very  apt  to  pro- 
duce squinting  in  children. 

An  ingenious  and  effectual  mode  of  curing  squinting  has  been  dis- 
covered, and  is  now  practised  by  surgeons. 

(11.)  Teething.  ^ 

The  first  sign  of  teething  is  heat  in  the  mouth  of  the  child — —felt  by 
the  mother  during  sucking — flow  of  saliva — biting  and  grinding  the 
gums.  A piece  of  India  rubber  is  better  than  coral,  ivory,  or  any 
hard  substance,  for  rubbing  the  gums. 

When  the  child  is  much  distressed,  have  recourse  to  medical  aid. 

When  the  bowels  are  confined,  give  without  delay  a gentle  purga- 
tive, such  as  castor-oil,  manna*  magnesia,  or  senna.  The  warm  bath 
at  ninety-six  degrees  soothes  the  child. 

A child’s  mouth  should  be  often  examined,  even  after  three  years  of 
age.  Wayward  temper,  cough,  and  even  croup,  have  been  traced  to 
cutting  a double  tooth. 

Do  not  hesitate  to  allow  the  child’s  gums  to  be  lanced. 

(12.)  Exercise — Walking  Alone. 

Very  little  motion,  and  that  of  the  gentlest  and  most  careful  kind, 
is  all  the  infant  should  have  for  a considerable  time  after  birth. 

Avoid  the  upright  posture  as  much  as  possible. 

Avoid  all  sudden  and  violent  jerking,  and  long-continued  positions. 

Allow  the  child  to  move  its  limbs  freely,  on  the  floor  or  in  bed. 

Watch  the  first  efforts  of  the  child  to  walk  alone,  and  interfere 
rather  with  eye  and  hand  titan  by  exclamations  of  caution  and  alarm  : 
these  last  do  much  harm. 

Avoid  sympathizing  too  strongly  with  a child  when  hurt : assist 
quietly,  and  show  how  the  accident  happened.  Children  who  are 
angry  when  hurt,  should  see  that  you  do  not  sympathize  with  their 
rage,  although  you  do  with  their  sufferings. 

Abjure  all  leading-strings  and  go-carts,  or  other  artificial  means  of 
teaching  the  child  to  walk.  Never  drag  the  child  by  one  hand,  or  lift 
it  by  either  one  or  both  arms. 

When  the  child  walks  alone,  it  should  not  be  permitted  to  over- 
fatigue itself. 

The  mother  should  have  her  eye  both  on  child  and  its  attendant  out 
of  doors,  and  be  as  much  as  she  can  in  her  child’s  company. 


30 


diseases  of  the  hair. 


(13.)  Moral  Government. 

|at‘d  .p.rev'ent  fretfulness  and  ill-temper,  by  keeping  the 
el  or  hA  f ea'th’  6aSe’  and  comfort  N«'er  quiet  with  ghmgtc 
For  h7  o b!n#  ln  an-v  way>  *ill  less  by  opiates  8 8 

• 1 °r  TAj  St  few  months>  avoid  loud  and  harsli  sounds  in  the  hoar 

X?  t Sin"  ,7f  «*'» : JSZ  SSJSS 

them.'  B tighten  them , and  never  jerk  or  roughly  handle 

,wtriangry  VVOrds  and  vio,ence>  both  to  a child  and  in  its  presence  • 
ay  which  means  a naturally  violent  child  may  be  trained  to  gentleness’ 

Hin^  A ra7  propensity  of  a child,  such  as  anger,  violence  greel 

?“:s5.“c,nm"s'  “> 

chStote^he^  and  ^ ber  select  servants  such'as  she  wishes  the 
ChlM  1S  aff6Cted  bytheconduct  ofthoee 

n‘moioi!ate  anf!  .??press*  benevolence  and  cheerfulness ; in  such  an 
-mosphere,  a child  must  become  benevolent  and  cheerful 

nf»iiirtheiA  as  Shf  ought ’ and  she  wil1  lobkas  she  feels.  Much 
of  a ch.ld  s earliest  moral  training  is  by  looks  and  gestures. 

When  necessary,  exhibit  firmness  and  authority, Always  with  perfect 
temper,  composure,  and  self-possession.  } 1 

.oi!tCr  glVe  the  child  fbat  which  it  cries  for;  and  avoid  beine  too 
refusyaUndS^lfi"h!  °hlldren’s  demands>  else  they  become  impatient  of 

andVilrentthOmild  “ most  ^nt,  the  mother  should  be  most  calm 
m”sch  evous  SteTT^  f ™ing  child  is  as  useless  as  it  is 

Te  “reamfng  ^ 6 ^ *>' is  the  beSt 

child  XneC0' A®  chiH -tneSSeS  sh?uld  7thdraw>  and  leave  mother  and 
cmiti  alone.  A child  is  very  ready  to  look  round  and  attract  the  aid 
ot foreign  sympathy  in  its  little  rebellions. 

JNIever  promise  to  give  when  the  child  leaves  off  crying.  Let  the 
ciying  be  the  reason  for  not  giving. 

Never  strike  a child,  and  never  teach  it  to  strike  again.  Never  tell 
a chilu  to  beat  or  threaten  any  animal  or  object.  Corporal  correction 
may  be  avoided  by  substitutes.  p correction 


DISEASES  OF  THE  HAIR. 

Nothing  contributes  so  much  to  personal  beauty  as  a good  head  o 
h«m’!inIfeVertbe  aSS’ thj  rair  has  its  diseases  like'  other  parts  of  the 
tSl'nfti  Appended  will  be  found  an  accurate  and  scientific  de 
script) on  of  these  diseases,  from  the  highest  medical  authority,  will 
prescriptions  that  may  be  implicitly  relied  on  for  their  alleviation  anc 
“ , very  person  who  begins  to  find  his  hairioosen  or  prematurely 

to,”  v shoal<?  read  tnls  essay  and  practise  its  precepts.  It  will 
save  him  from  being  imposed  on  by  quack  nostrums,  if  nothing  else. 


DISEASES  OF  THE  HAIR. 


31 


(1.)  To  remove  superfluous  Hair. 

With  many  persons  it  is  an  important  question,  how  hairs  in  improper 
situtions  are  to  be  disposed  of.  1 wish  1 could  answer  this  question 
satisfactorily,  for  it  is  one  that  I have  addressed  to  me  very  frequently. 

I know  of  no  specific  remedy  for  such  a purpose.  Substances  are 
sold  by  the  perfumers,  called  depilatories , which  are  represented  as 
having  the  power  of  removing  hair.  But  the  hair  is  not  destroyed  by 
these  means,  the  root  and  that  part  of  the  shaft  implanted  within  the 
skin  still  remain,  and  are  ready  to  shoot  up  with  increased  vigor  as 
soon  as  the  depilatory  is  withdrawn.  The  effect  of  the  depilatory  is 
the  same  in  this  respect  as  that  of  a razor,  and  the  latter  is  unquestion- 
ably the  better  remedy.  It  must  not,  however,  be  imagined  that  de- 
pilatories are  negative  remedies,  and  that  if  they  do  no  permanent 
good,  they  are  at  least  harmless  ; that  is  not  the  fact ; they  are  vio- 
lent irritants,  and  require  to  be  used  with  the  utmost  caution.  This 
will  be  immediately  seen  when  I inform  my  reader  that  depilatories 
are  chiefly  composed  of  quicklime,  soda,  and  s.ulphuret  of  arsenic,  all 
of  which  substances  act  by  burning  up  and  dissolving  the  hair. 
There  could  be  no  objection  to  this  process,  if  it  were  conducted  with 
safety  to  the  skin  ; but  the  depilatory  requires  to  be  laid  on  the  skin 
either  in  the  form  of  powder  or  paste,  and  necessarily  destroys  the 
scarf-skin  at  the  same  time  that  it  acts  on  the  hair ; for  the  scarf-skin 
and  hair  are  identical  in  composition.  After  all,  the  safest  depilatorv 
is  a pair  of  tweezers  and  patience. 

(2.)  Loosening  of  the  Hair. 

I will  not  advert  to  the  loosening  of  the  hair,  which  frequently  oc- 
curs to  young  persons,  or  in  those  of  the  middle  period  of  life,  and 
which,  if  neglected,  would  become  real  baldness.  Such  a state  as  I 
am  now  describing  is  not  uncommon  in  women,  and  generally  termi- 
nates, in  its  mildest  form,  in  excessive  loosening  of  the  hair.  The 
case,  however,  is  far  from  being,  the  hopeless  one  which  is  generally 
imagined  ; and  if  proper  treatment  be  pursued,  the  hair  will  grow 
afresh,  and  assume  all  its  pristine  strength.  A useful  practice  in  men, 
and  those  of  the  opposite  sex  whose  hair  is  short,  is  to  immerse  the 
head  in  cold  water,  morning  and  night,  dry  the  hair  thoroughly,  and 
then  brush  the  scalp,  until  a warm  glow  is  produced.  In  women  with 
long  hair,  this  plan  is  objectionable  ; and  a better  one  is  to  brush  the 
scalp  until  redness  and  a warm  glow  are  produced,  then  dab  among 
the  roots  of  the  hair  one  or  other  of  the  following  lotions.  If  the 
lotion  produce  smarting  or  tenderness,  the  brush  may  be  laid  aside, 
but  if  no  sensation  is  occasioned,  the  Brushing  should  be  resumed,- and 
a second  application  of  the  lotion  made.  This  treatment  should  be 
practised  once  or  twice  a day,  or  at  intervals  of  a few  days,  according 
to  the  state  of  the  scalp;  namely,  if  tender,  less;  if  insensible,  more 
frequently.  When  the  baldness  happens  in  patches,  the  skin  should 
be  well  brushed  with  a soft  tooth-brush,  dipped  in  distilled  vinegar, 
morning  and  evening,  or  dipped  in  one  of  the  following  lotions : — 

2 


DISEASES  OF  THE  HAIR. 


32 

Lotion  for  promoting  the  growth  of  the  Hair. 

No.  1. 

Vinegar  of  cantharides,  half  an  ounce. 

Eau  de  Cologne,  one  ounce. 

Rose  water,  one  ounce. 

No.  2. 

Eau  de  Cologne,  two  ounces. 

Tincture  of  cantharides,  half  an  ounce. 

Qil  of  nutmeg,  half  a drachm. 

Oil  of  lavender,  ten  drops. — Mix. 

No.  3. 

Mezereon  bark  in  small  pieces,  one  ounce. 

Horseradish  root  in  small  pieces,  one  ounce. 

Boiling  distilled  vinegar,  half-a-pint. 

Let  this  infusion  stand  for  a week,  and  then  strain  though 

muslin  for  use. 

If  either  of  these  lotions  should  be  found  too  irritating  to  the  skin,  use 
them  in  smaller  quantity,  and  less  frequently.  No.  3 may  be  diluted 
with  more  distilled  vinegar.  If  they  have  the  effect  of  making  the 
hair  harsh  and  dry,  this  inconvenience  may  be  removed  by  the  use  of 
oil  or  pomatum  after  each  application  of  the  lotion.  Pomatums  for 
the  growth  of  the  hair  are  very  inferior  to  the  lotions,  and  the  cele- 
brated pomatum  of  Dupuytren  is  both  clumsy  and  inefficient. 

(3.)  To  remedy  premature  grayness  of  the  Hair. 

It  must  be  a matter  of  common  observation,  that  in  those  instances 
in  which  the  pigment  presents  the  deepest  hue,  blanching  most  fre- 
quently occurs,  and  grayness  is  most  common ; while  in  persons  of 
light  hair  and  light  complexion,  blanching  is  comparatively  rare 
There  can  be  no  doubt  that  the  production  in  this  climate  of  a dark 
pigment  is  a greater  exertion  to  the  economy  than  one  of  a lighter 
kind  ; and  hence,  when  the  power  of  the  nervous  system  is  reduced, 
the  formation  of  pigment  is  one  of  the  first  actions  which  suffers.  It 
is  wisely  ordained  that  it  should  be  so,  for  color  of  the  hair  is  one  of 
the  conditions  of  existence  most  easily  spared,  and  it  is  one  also  that 
may  well  serve  as  a monitor  of  human  decay.  When  grayness  shows 
itself  in  the  hair,  it  is  therefore  an  indication  of  want  of  tone  in  the 
hair-producing  organs ; and  if  this  tone  can  be  restored,  the  hair 
would  cease  to  change,  and,  at  the  same  time,  further  change  would 
be  prevented.  The  lotions  for  promating  the  growth  of  the  hair  are 
remedies  of  this  kind,  and  I know  no  better  local  means  for  checking 
grayness.  They  must  be  used  as  recommended  ii.  the  preceding  par- 
agraph. 

(4.)  On  Dying  the  Hair. 

I have  heard  of  persons  who  have  been  led  to  adopt  this  artifice 
under  the  supposition  that  the  hair  being  once  dyed  will  grow  forever 
after  of  that  color.  If  they  had  reflected  in  time  that  the  dye  acts 


ON  THE  PRESERVATION  OF  THE  SIGHT. 


33 


only  on  the  hair  above  the  level  of  the  surface,  and  that  the  hair  con- 
tinues to  grow  of  the  exceptionable  color,  so  as  to  require  a weekly' 
repetition  of  a disagreeable  process,  they  would,  I think,  have  hesi- 
tated before  they  had  offered  themselves  as  willing  slaves  to  a barba- 
rous practice. 

(5.)  Altered  direction  of  the  Hair . 

Altered  direction  of  the  hair  may  be  discussed  in  a few  words ; the 
only  situation  in  which  the  hair  is  known  to  give  rise  to  inconvenience 
by  irregularity  in  the  direction  of  its  growth,  is  upon  the  margin  of 
the  eyelids,  where  the  lashes  sometimes  grow  inward,  and,  by  pressing 
against  the  front  of  the  eyeball,  occasion  irritation,  and  even  inflam- 
mation. When  such  a state  as  this  occurs,  the  erring  hair  must  be 
removed  by  means  of  a pair  of  fine  tweezers,  and  the  inflammation 
afterwards  subdued  by  cooling  and  slightly  astringent  lotions. 

(6.)  Ringworm. 

In  the  treatment  of  ringworm,  the  first  point  for  attention  is  rig- 
orous cleanliness ; the  head  should  be  washed  with  a profusion  of 
soap,  and  the  hair  carefully  combed,  to  remove  all  loosened  hairs,  and 
every  particle  of  crust.  When  this  has  been  done;  the  whole  head, 
and  particularly  the  disordered  parts,  should  be  well  rubbed  with  the 
following  lotion : 

Ringworm  Lotion 
Sublimate  of  mercury,  five  grains. 

Spirits  of  wine,  two  ounces. 

Tincture  of  musk,  one  drachm. 

Rose-water,  six  ounces. — Mix  well 
It  must  be  recollected  that  the  yellow  matter  is  not  confined  to  the 
surface  alone,  but  extends  deeply  into  the  hair-tubes  ; and  the  friction 
of  the  diseased  parts  with  the  finger,  when  well  wetted  with  the  lotion, 
is  necessary  to  introduce  the  latter  into  the  hair-tubes.  Unless  atten- 
tion be  paid  to  this  observation,  the  lotion  might  be  used  without  ever 
reaching  the  seat  of  the  disorder,  and  of  course  without  avail  in  re- 
spect of  the  cure  of  the  disease.  Another  point  to  be  noticed  is  the 
necessity  of  carrying  the  principle  of  cleanliness  to  the  sponges, 
combs,  and  towels,  used  by  the  patient.  The  sponge  and  combs 
should  be  dipped  in  a weak  solution  of  chloride  of  lime,  and  a clean 
towel  employed  at  each  washing.  Unless  these  precautions  be  adopt- 
ed, the  sponge,  the  comb,  the  brush,  the  towel,  may  each  convey  the 
seeds  of  the  vegetable  growth,  and  consequently  the  disease,  back  to 
the  scalp. 

I have  said  nothing  about  shaving  the  head  in  ringworm,  because 
m private  life  I know  it  to  be  quite  unnecessary. 


2* 


34 


THE  ART  OF  CARVING. 


THE  ART  OF  CARVING, 

Without  a perfect  knowledge  of  the  art  of  Carving,  it  is  impossi- 
ble to  perform  the  honors  of  the  table  with  propriety  ; and  nothing  can 
be  more  disagreeable  to  one  of  a sensitive  disposition,  than  to-  behold 
a person  at  the  head  of  a well-furnished  board,  hacking  the  linest 
joints,  and  giving  them  the  appearance  of  having  been  gnawed  by  dogs. 

It  also  merits  attention  in  an  economical  point  of  view — a bad  carvei 
will  mangle  joints  so  as  not  to  be  able  to  fill  half  a dozen  plates  from  a 
sirloin  of  beef,  or  a large  tongue:  which,  besides  creating  a great 
difference  in  the  daily  consumption  in  families,  often  occasions  disgust 
in  delicate  persons,  causing  them  to  loathe  the  provisions,  however 
good,  which  are  set  before  them,  if  helped  in  a clumsy  manner. 

I cannot  therefore  too  strongly  urge  the  study  of  this  useful  branch 
of  domestic  economy  ; and  I doubt  not  that  whoever  pays  due  atten- 
tion to  the  following  instructions,  will,  after  a little  practice,  without 
which  all  precept  is  unavailing,  speedily  acquire  the  reputation  of  be- 
ing a good  carver. 


Slight,  rather  than  muscular  strength,  is  the  secret  of  the  art.  To 
carve  with  ease,  and  with  dispatch,  requires  practice.  The  observing 
of  others,  and  attention  to  the  following  plates,  will  soon  enable  the 
practitioner  to  become  an  adept.  The  carver  should  be  seated  suffi- 
ciently elevated  ; so  near  the  dish  as  not  to  require  effort  in  reaching ; 
and  should  wield,  with  the  greatest  facility,  a keen  blade. 

Fish  wants  but  little  carving.  The  pieces  should  be  preserved  as 
whole  as  possible.  A fish  trowel  will  be  found  preferable  to  a knife. 

(1.)  Cod's  Read  and  Shoulders . 


cf  d 


Introduce  the  trowel  at  a,  and  cut  through  the  back  as  far  as  b,  then 
help  to  pieces  from  between  c and  d , and  with  each  piece  help  a por- 
tion of  the  sound,  which  lines  the  under  part  of  the  back-bone.  It  is 
esteemed  a delicacy ; is  thin,  and  of  a darker  color  than  the  rest  of 
the  fish. 

Some  persons  are  fond  of  the  palate  and  tongue,  for  which  you  must 


THE  ART  OF  CARVING. 


35 


put,  a spoon  into  the  mouth.  About  the  jaw-bone  lies  the  jelly  part* 
and  within  the  head  the  firmer  parts. 

(2.)  Sirloin  of  Beef. 


There  are  two  ways  of  carving  this  joint.  The  better  is>  by  long 
thin  pieces,  from  a to  c;  the  other  v^ay  is,  which  spoils  it,  to  cut  across. 

The  most  tender  and  best  part  lies  in  the  direction  of  the  line  b ; 
there,  too,  lies  some  delicate  fat.  Part  should  be  given  with  each  slice 

(3.)  Ribs  of  Beef 

These  may  be  sliced  like  the  sirloin,  commencing  at  the  thin  end 
and  slicing  the  whole  length,  so  as  to  give  a mixture  of  fat  and  lean. 

(4.)  Round  of  Beef 

Remove  the  upper  surface,  as  in  the  edge-bone ; help  to  thin  slices, 
with  a portion  of  fat ; cutting  as  even  as  possible,  to  preserve  its 
beauty  of  appearance. 


(5.)  Saddle  of  Mutton. 


Cut  long  slices,  on  each  side  of  the  back-bone,  in  the  direction  a,  b. 
As  some  are  fond  of  a joint  of  the  tail,  they  can  easily  be  served  bv 
eutting  between  the  joints. 

(6.)  Breast  of  Veal 


Separate  the  ribs  from  the  brisket  by  cutting  through  the  line  a , b. 
The  brisket  is  the  thickest  part,  and  of  a gristly  substance.  Carve 
each,  and  help  according  to  preference. 


86 


the  art  of  car  yens. 
(7.)  Aitch-Bone  of  Beef. 


There  are  twokfnds'  of  fat*; attached  •e”tire  surface’ then  help. 

It  is  necessary  to  ]earn  which  i«  ^ ^oin1:’  and  as  tastes  differ, 

at  e,  and  must  be  cut  horizontal!^ ft  th®  ^!ldkftt  wiI1  be  found 
r°w,  at  the  back  of  the  bone,  below’ d ^ Whlch  resemb!es  mar- 

meat Sp refper jy toge t he Twh lie  ?"Jstituted/or  the  one  wb!cb  keeps  the 
you  cut  down  to  it.  ln^’  and  ^ may  be  withdrawn  when 

(8.)  Calf’s  Head. 


throa{  sweet-bread 

the  eye  be  requested  extract  with' ?t!ler  Part  Should 
portion.  The  pa  ate  a delil  l p°'n,  °f  the  knife’  and  help  to  a 
sweet-tooth Lfrulint  S the  head‘  The 
in  . Weir:  is  “.”]"Xcw“wiX.  ”S  0fo*;  «*  *”0. 

jaw-bone,  ft,  Ie«„  „m  Sppe„.  Help  » «eK,'h«2 

(9.)  Shoulder  of  Mutton. 


sace  to  the  bone  at  the  line  «,  and  help  thin  pieces  from  each  side 


THE  ART  OF  CARVING. 


37 


The  choice  fat  lies  at  the  outer  edge,  at  b.  Should  more  be  needed 
than  can  be  gotten  from  those  parts,  slice  on  either  side  of  the  line  c, 
which  represents  the  blade-bone ; and  nice  pieces  may  be  obtained 
from  the  under  side,  also,  by  slicing  horizontally. 

(10.)  Leg  of  Mutton. 


The  nicest  part  lies  at  a , midway  between  the  knuckle  and  the  other 
end.  Thence,  cut  thin  slices  each  way,  as  deep  as  b.  The  outside 
being  seldom  very  fat,  some  favorite  pieces  may  be  sliced  off  the  broad 
end  at  c.  The  knuckle  is  tender,  but  the  other  parts  more  juicy, 
some  good  slices  may  be  cut  lengthwise,  from  the  broad  end  of  the 
back  of  the  leg.  The  cramp-bone  is  much  thought  of  by  some : to 
get  it,  cut  down  to  the  bone  at  d , and  in  the  curve  line  to  e • 

(11.)  Spare  Rib. 


Carve,  first,  slices  from  the  fleshy  part,  tracing  the  line  a , b.  This 
will  give  a proportion  of  lean  and  fat ; and  being  removed,  separate 
the  rib,  placed  in  the  direction  d , b , c ; breaking  it  at  the  point  c.  If 
an  entire  rib  is  too  much,  a slice  of  meat  may  be  taken  from  between 
two  ribs. 

(12.)  Fore  Quarter  of  Lamb. 


Separate,  first,  the  shoulder  from  the  scoven,  which  constitutes  the 


33 


THE  ART  OF  CARVING. 


ribs  and  the  breast,  by  sliding  the  knife  under  the  knuckle,  in  the  di* 
rection  of  a,  b , c,  leaving  on  the  ribs  a due  proportion  of  meat.  Place 
it  on  a different  dish.  Now  squeeze  half  a Seville  orange  on  the  other 
part,  which,  being  sprinkled  with  salt  and  pepper,  should  be  carved  in 
the  direction  c,  d.  This  will  separate  the  gristly  part  from  the  ribs. 
Now  help  from  either,  as  may  be  the  choice,  carving  as  directed  by  the 
lines  e,f. 

(13.)  Fillet  of  Veal . 


This  resembles  a round  of  beef.  Like  that,  it  should  be  carved  hor* 
izontally,  or  by  cutting  the  even  slices  off  the  top,  cutting  deep  into 
the  flap,  between  a , b,  for  the  stuffing.  Help  to  each  person  a portion 
of  the  dressing. 


(14.)  Pig . 


This  is  seldom  sent  to  the  table  whole  ; the  cook  first  garnishing  the 
dish  with  the  chops  and  ears,  and  dividing  the  body  lengthwise.  Sep- 
arate a shoulder  from  the  body  ; next  a leg ; and  divide  the  ribs.  The 
Joints  may  be  divided,  or  the  meat  sliced  from  them.  Some  prefer  the 
neck,  though  most  the  ribs.  Help  with  stuffing  and  gravy. 

If  the  head  is  not  otherwise  disposed  of,  the  brains  should  be  mixed 
with  the  gravy. 

(15.)  Venison . 


a 


Slices  of  a medium  thickness  may  be  given,  and  plenty  of  gravy 
with  them.  Cut  quite  to  the  bone  in  the  line  «,  c,  b ; then  turn  the 
dish  with  the  end  b towards  you,  and  putting  in  the  point  of  the  knife 


THE  ART  OF  CARVING, 


& c,  d.  You  may  now,  at  pleasure,  slice  from  either  side.  As  the 
fat  lies  deeper  on  the  left,  those  who  like  fat,  as  most  venison  eaters 
do,  may  be  helped  to  the  best  flavored  and  fattest  slices  on  the  left  of 
the  line  c,  d. 

(16.)  Ham, 


Ham  may  be  calved  three  different  ways.  Usually,  commencing 
by  long,  delicate  pieces,  cut  to  the  bone  through  the  thick  fat,  in  the 
line  a,  b.  A second  way  is,  to  cut  a small  round  hole  on  the  top,  as  at 
c,  taking  thin,  circular  pieces.  The  most  savins  way  is  to  be^in  at 
the  knuckle. 


(17.)  A Fowl. 


^ It  will  be  more  convenient  carving  this  to  take  it  on  your  plate,  re» 
placing  the  joints,  as  separated,  neatly  on  the  dish.  Place  the  fork  in 
the  middle  of  the  breast,  and  remove  the  wing  in  the  direction  of  a, 
separating  the  joint  at  a,  and  lifting  up  the  pinion  with  the  fork,  and 
drawing  the  entire  wing  towards  the  leg.  This  drawing  will  separate 
the  fleshy  part  more  naturally  than  cutting.  Cut  between  the  leg  and 
the  body  at  c,  to  the  joint  b.  By  giving  the  blade  a sudden  turn,  the 
joint  will  break.  Repeat  the  same  operation  for  the  other  wing  and 
leg.  Next,  take  off  the  merry-thought  by  drawing  the  knife  across 
the  breast  and  turning  the  joint  back  ; and  then  remove  the  two  neck 
bones.  Divide  the  breast  from  the  back,  by  cutting  through  all  the 
ribs,  close  to  the  breast.  Turn  the  back  up  ; half  way  between  the 
extreme  ends  press  the  point  of  the  knife,  and  on  raising  the  rump 
end  the  bone  will  part.  Take  off  the  sidesmen,  having  turned  the 
rump  from  you  : — and  done. 

The  wings  should  be  made  as  handsome  as  possible.  These,  with 
the  breast,  are  the  most  delicate  parts  of  the  fowl ; the  legs  are  more 
juicy. 


40 


THE  ART  OF  CARVING , 


(18.)  AGoose. 


With  the  neck  end  toward  you,  to  take  off  the  wing,  put  the  fcrl 
into  the  small  end  of  the  pinion,  and  press  it  close  to  the  body,  dividing 
the  joint  at  a , and  carrying  the  knife  along,  as  far  as  b.  Take  off  the 
leg  by  an  incision  from  h to  c,  and  separate  the  drumstick.  Part  the 
wing  and  leg  from  the  other  side,  and  between  the  line  1 and  2,  cut 
Jong  slices  from  each  side  of  the  breast.  The  apron  must  be  removed 
by  cutting  from  d to  e,  by  c,  to  get  at  the  stuffing.  The  merry-thought 
being  removed,  the  neck  bones  and  all  other  parts  are  to  be  divided  as 
in  a fowl. 

A Duck  may  be  carved  in  a similar  manner. 

(19.)  Turkey. 

To  carve,  without  withdrawing  the  fork,  place  your  fork  firmly  in 
the  lower  part  of  the  breast,  so  as  to  have  the  turkey  at  perfect  com- 
mand. It  is  not  difficult  to  complete  the  entire  carving  of  this  fowl 
without  extracting  the  fork  till  done — the  whole  back,  of  course, 
making  one  joint.  Proceed  to  remove  the  wing  ; the  leg ; another 
wing  and  leg.  (This  maybe  done  either  before  or  after  slicing  the 
breast).  Next,  remove  the  merry-thought,  the  neck  bones,  the  neck 
itself;  then,  cutting  through  the  ribs,  the  job  is  done. 

(20.)  Partridge . 

Carved  as  a fowl.  Wings,  breast,  and  merry-thought,  are  the  best 
parts.  The  two  latter  not  often  divided.  The  wing  the  best  joint : 
the  tip  the  very  best. 

(21.)  Pigeons. 

Halve  them,  dividing  lengthwise  ; or,  so  as  to  make  the  breast  and 
wings  form  one  division.  The  lower  division  generally  preferred. 

Woodcocks , Grouse , c f*c.,  are  carved  like  fowls,  if  not  too  small ; 
when  they  must  be  cut  in  quarters. 

Snipes  should  only  be  halved. 

(22.)  Tongue. 

Cut  perpendicular  thin  slices,  commencing  a little  nearer  the  root 
than  the  tip.  The  fat  lies  underside,  at  the  root. 

(23.)  Leg  of  Pork — [See  Ham.] 

The  stuffing,  in  a roast  leg,  will  be  found  under  the  skin,  at  the 
thick  end. 

General  Directions. 

The  seat  for  the  carver  should  be  somewhat  elevated  above  the 
other  chairs : it  is  extremely  ungraceful  to  carve  standing,  and  it  is 
rarely  done  by  any  person  accustomed  to  the  business.  Carving  de- 


ON  WARTS  AND  CORNS,  AND  HOW  TO  CURE  THEM.  41 

pends  more  on  skill  than  on  strength.  We  have  seen  very  small 
women  carve  admirably  sitting  down  ; and  very  tall  men  who  know 
not  how  to  cut  a piece  of  beef-steak  without  rising  on  their  feet  to  do  it. 

The  carving-knife  should  be  very  sharp,  and  not  heavy  ; and  it 
should  be  held  firmly  in  the  hand  : also  the  dish  should  be  not  too  fai 
from  the  carver.  It  is  customary  to  help  the  fish  with  a fish-trowel, 
and  not  with  a knife.  The  middie  part  of  a fish  is  generally  consid- 
ered the  best.  In  helping  it,  avoid  breaking  the  flakes,  as  that  will 
give  it  a mangled  appearance. 

In  helping  any  one  to  gravy,  or  to  melted  butter,  do  not  pour  it  over 
their  meat,  fowl,  or  fish,  but  put  it  to  one  side,  on  a vacant  part  of  the 
plate,  that  they  may  use  just  as  much  of  it  as  they  like.  In  filling  a 
plate,  never  heap  one  thing  on  another. 

In  helping  vegetables,  do  not  plunge  the  spoon  down  to  the  bottom 
of  the  dish,  in  case  they  should  not  have  been  perfectly  well  drained, 
and  the  water  should  have  settled  there. 


ON  WARTS  AND  CORNS,  AND  HOW  TO  CURE 
THEM. 

Such  persons  (and  who  have  not)  as  have  been  troubled  with  these 
afflicting  annoyances,  will  no  doubt  feel  gratified  to  see  a scientific  ex- 
position of  the  nature  of  their  enemy,  and  of  the  proper  and  ready 
means  of  exterminating  him.  The  essay  which  follows  is  from  one 
of  our  most  enlightened  surgeons,  and  his  prescriptions  may  b,e  im- 
plicitly relied  on. 


(1.)  How  Warts  are  formed. 

The  papillae  of  the  sensitive  skin  are  covered  and  protected  by  the 
scarf-skin,  and  the  thickness  of  the  scarf-skin  bears  an  exact  relation 
to  the  size  of  the  papillse.  It  may  therefore  be  inferred,  that  if  the 
papillae  grow  to  an  extraordinary  size,  they,  in  their  turn,  will  occasion 
the  production  of  a proportionate  quantity  of  scarf-skin,  which  will 
form  a rounded  prominence  on  the  surface  of  the  body.  Such  is  the 
reality,  and  the  little  prominence  so  produced  is  termed  a wart.  The 
wart  may  be  regarded  as  the  effect  of  an  excitation  acting  generally 
from  within ; but  instances  are  not  wanting,  in  medicine,  to  prove 
that  they  may  also  be  dependent  on  an  obvious  external  cause  of  irri- 
tation. 

(2.)  On  the  formation  of  Corns . 

Whenever  a portion  of  the  skin  is  subjected  to  long-continued  and 
unequal  pressure,  the  papillse  of  the  sensitive  skin  are  stimulated,  and 
grow  to  an  unusual  size.  Associated  with  this  increase  of  growth  ol 
the  papillae,  is  the  increased  thickness  of  the  scarf-skin ; and  this  latter 
being  the  outward  and  perceptible  effect,  is  denominated,  according  tc 
its  size,  either  “ callosity’’  or  “ corn.”  When  the  pressure,  and  con 


42 


ON  WARTS  AN])  CORNS,  AND  .TOW  TO  CURE  THE 51. 


sequent, y the  thickening  of  the  scarf-skin,  is  distributed  over  -in  ex 
tensive  surface,  the  state  is  properly  a callosity.  Where  it  is  limited 
occupying,  for  example,  the  prominence  of  a joint,  and  where  Tcon 
sequence  of  this  limitation,  the  effects  produced  are  moC  severe  the 
case  is  one  of  corn.  Callosities  may  occur  on  any  pm  of  the  bodv 
where  much  pressure  exists  ; on  the  shoulder,  for  iL?ance  in  nersZ 

rrafts-^thedbowl  f iT7^  bIfdenS,;  °n  the  hand"  in certain 
ci aits,  on  the  elbows  and  knees,  and  on  different  parts  of  the  horlv 

S™"?  UrIly  “ t0  the  feet>“d  are,  in  fa^  a mom  SeveTe 

enL^f,Ca  °l'ty'  The  papilla5  of  the  central  Pa'-t  of  the  corn  are 
§ t °s.uch  an  ^tent  as  to  be  equal  in  magnitude  to  those  of  a 

aWrate  ,In  state,  the  papiH*  take  on  the  action  of  product  ip^ 
sWhSh  hS  °f  s<?ar!*skln  in  the  same  manner  as  warts,  and^these 
wWh8’  S8etn  th®  CUt  surface  of  a corn,  give  the  idea  of  fibres 
which  popular  ignorance  magnifies  into  roots.  A corn  extracted  bv 
tts  roots  is  therefore  expected  never  to  grow  a.ain,  beefuse  trees 
wnch  have  roots,  when  torn  up  from  the  ground  never  re-appear’ 
But  the  fact  is,  that  these  so-called  roots  are,  in  reality,  branches'  and 

se«nmry  be  CUt'°ff’  and  t0rn  olf>  and  twisted  off,  as  Tone  as  the’ pos- 
sessor lives  without  curing  the  corn,  unless  the  cause  “namelZhe 
pressure  and  friction,  be  removed.  When  the  cause  is  takeaway 

appears.  * " “ by  degrees  t0  their  Pristine  bulk>  and  the  corn  diT- 

It  will  be  apparent  to  every  one,  that  if  a shoe  of  a certain  size  be 
worn,  and  if  this  shoe,  by  its  too  small  dimensions,  aTd  coLequeht 

fi  redUpart0Cofathenfa  tC°rnj.the  Corn’  ^ ’“"easing  the  size  of  the  in- 

aheadv  hrimed  slfr  ’ p • neoe,ssa"1y  Increas“  the  pressure  on  the 
^leady  irritated  skin.  l am  and  inflammation  follow  this  injury  and 
the  least  mischief  that  can  happen  is  the  enlarged  growth  of  tK- 

Buf’onTna  b °°1  thtn  naf'al  bein8  now  habitually  sent  to  them. 
“ferfanK?i»^When  Vanit^  triumPhs  over  comfort,  and  the 
f!m  ko  ‘f®,  has  b®e"  more  tnan  usualiy  wronged,  blood  bursts 

f,om  the  pores  of  the  sensitive  skin,  and  the  next  morning,  when  the 
corn  is  inspected,  it  has  the  character  of  a bruise.  The  doctor  is  sent 
!!ina.  Pou,tlcs  18  P’f  on>  rest  enjoined,  and  in  a few  days  ail  is  again 
weh  , too  well,  in  fact,  to  allow  experience  even  a whisper.  A tray 

restore3?  asd?ef  skuSbter,  on  th<?  ““fortunate  corn,  but  similar  melnl 
restore  it  as  before.  Each  section  of  a corn  which  has  been  thus 
maltreated  is  precisely  that  of  the  geological  section  of  a stratified 
mountain,  stratum  following  stratum,  of  various  hues,  from  a delicate 

yellow  to  the  deep  black  of  dried  blood. 

. (3.)  Of  Soft  Corns . 

j.he  soft  corn  occurs  between  the  toes,  and  is  produced  in  the  same 
manner  as  the  common  corn  ; but  in  consequence  of  the  moisture  ex- 
isting in  this  situation,  the  thickened  scarf-skin  becomes  saturated 
and  remains  permanently  soft.  The  soft  corn,  again,  rarely  becomes 
^U!ardiy’  but  Pref es  severely  on  the  deep  textures,  and  oives 
little  mdmation,  as  regards  size,  of  the  torment  which  it  occasions! 

I no  uncommon  tiling  to  find  a blister  formed  under  the  soft  corn, 


ON  WARTS  AND  CORNS,  AND  HCW  TO  CURE  THEM.  43 

and  its  fluid  oozing  through  a small,  round  aperture  in  the  centre  of 
the  latter.  Sometimes,  also,  the  soft  corn  is  followed  by  a deep  and 
painful  sore,  and  inflammation  of  the  foot;  and  on  one  occasion  I 
examined  a soft  corn  which  had  eaten  into  the  bones,  and  produced 
inflammation  of  a joint.  Diseased  bone  originating  in  soft  corns  is  no 
infrequent  occurrence. 

^4.)  To  Cure  Warts . 

The  treatment  of  warts  is  to  pare  the  hard  and  dry  skin  from  their 
tops,  and  then  touch  them  with  the  smallest  drop  of  strong  acetic  acid, 
taking  care  that  the  acid  does  not  run  off  the  wart  upon  the  neighbor- 
ing skin,  for  if  it  do,  it  will  occasion  inflammation  and  mhch  pain.  If 
this  practice  be  continued  once  or  twice  daily,  with  regularity , paring 
the  surface  of  the  wart  occasionally,  when  it  gets  hard  and  dry,  the 
wart  may  soon  be  effectually  cured. 

(5.)  Sure  method  of  Curing  Corns. 

The  same  treatment  will  keep  corns  under,  in  spite  of  pressure ; but 
there  is  a knack  in  paring  them  which  I will  now  explain.  The  end 
to  be  gained  in  cutting  a corn  is  to  take  off  the  pressure  of  the  shoe 
from  the  tender  papillse  of  the  sensitive  skin  ; and  to  effect  this  object, 
the  summit  of  the  corn  must  be  cut  in  such  a manner  as  to  excavate 
it,  the  edges  being  left  to  act  as  a bolster,  and  still  further  protect  the 
central  part,  w7here  the  longest,  and  consequently  the  most  sensitive 
papillae  are  found.  The  professional  chiropodist  effects  this  object 
very  adroitly ; he  generally  works  around  the  centre,  and  takes  out 
the  fibrous  portion  in  a single  piece.  He  digs,  as  he  says,  for  the 
root.  There  is  another  way  of  disposing  of  a corn,  ’which  1 have  been 
in  the  habit  of  recommending  to  my  friends  ; it  is  effectual,  and  obvi- 
ates the  necessity  for  the  use  of  the  knife.  Have  some  common  stick- 
ing-plaster spread  on  buff  leather;  cut  a piece  sufficiently  large  to 
cover  the  corn  and  skin  around,  and  have  a hole  punched  in  the  mid- 
dle, of  exactly  the  size  of  the  summit  of  the  corn.  Now  take  some 
common  soda  of  the  oil  shops,  and  make  it  into  a paste,  with  about 
half  its  bulk  of  soap ; fill  the  hole  in  the  plaster  with  this  paste,  and 
cover  it  up  with  a piece  of  sticking-plaster.  Let  this  be  done  at  bed- 
time, and  in  the  morning  remove  the  plaster,  and  wash  the  corn  with 
warm  water.  If  this  operation  be  repeated  every  second,  third,  or 
fourth  day  for  a short  time,  the  corn  will  be  removed.  The  only  pre- 
caution requiring  to  be  used  is  to  avoid  causing  pain ; and  so  long  as 
any  tenderness  occasioned  by  the  remedy  lasts,  it  must  be  repeated. 
When  the  corn  is  reduced  within  reasonable  bounds  by  either  of  the 
above  modes,  or  when  it  is  only  threatening,  and  has  not  yet  risen  to 
the  height  of  being  a sore  annoyance,  the  best  of  all  remedies  is  a 
piece  of  soft  buff  leather,  spread  with  soap-plaster,  and  pierced  in  the 
centre  with  a hole  cf  exactly  the  size  of  the  summit  of  the  corn.  If 
it  can  be  procured,  a better  substance  still  for  spreading  the  plaster 
upon  is  “ amadou,”  or  “ German  tinder,”  commonly  used  for  lighting 
cigars,  and  kept  by  the  tobacconists.  This  substance  is  softer  than 
leather,  and  does  not  become  har  1 and  ruck  up,  as  the  latter  does,  after 


44 


OBSERVATIONS  ON  MAKING  PUDDINGS,  ETC. 


it  has  been  on  for  a short  time  The  soft  corn  is  best  relieved  by- 
cutting away  the  thick  skin  witn  a pair  of  scissors,  avoiding  to  wound 
the  flesh  ; then  touching  it  with  a drop  of  Friar’s  balsam,  and  wearing 
habitually  a piece  of  cotton  wool  between  the  toes,  changing  the  cot- 
ton daily.  Caustic,  as  an  application  for  the  cure  of  corns,  is  a rem- 
edy which  should  be  used  with  great  caution , and  would  be  better  left 
altogether  in  the  hands  of  the  medical  man. 


OBSERVATIONS  ON  MAKING  PUDDINGS,  &c. 

The  recipes  which  follow  are  from  an  experienced  and  capable 
housewife.  They  are  amply  worthy  the  attention  of  all  who  have 
any  interest  in  the  kitchen.  It  will  be  perceived  that  the  prescrip- 
tions are  all  upon  the  cold  water  principle,  as  alcohol  is  in  no  instance 
recommended. 


ON  MAKING  PUDDINGS. 

The  cloths  used  to  tie  over  puddings,  or  to  boil  them  in,  should  be 
nicely  washed  and  dried  in  the  sun,  and  kept  in  a dry  place.  When 
to  be  used,  they  should  be  dipped  into  boiling  water,  squeezed  dry,  and 
floured.  In  all  cases  the  eggs  must  be  thoroughly  beaten.  If  bread 
pudding,  the  cloth  should  be  tied  loose,  to  give  room  for  rising.  If 
batter,  tight  over.  The  water  should  boil  quick  when  the  pudding  is 
put  in  ; and  it  should  be  moved  about  for  a minute,  that  the  ingredients 
should  mix  evenly.  Batter  puddings  should  be  strained  through  a 
coarse  sieve  when  all  mixed.  In  others  strain  the  eggs  separately. 
The  pans  must  always  be  buttered  before  the  pudding  is  put  in.  And 
the  milk  or  cream  used  should  be  boiled  and  cooled,  before  the  eggs 
are  put  in.  A pan  of  cold  water  must  be  ready,  and  the  pudding  dip 
ped  in  as  soon  as  it  comes  out  of  the  pot ; then  it  will  not  adhere  t< 
the  cloth. 

Transparent  Pudding . 

8 eggs ; 8 oz.  of  sugar  ; 8 oz.  of  butter  ; nutmeg. 

Beat  up  the  eggs,  put  them  into  a stewpan  with  the  sugar  and  but- 
ter, nutmeg  to  taste,  set  it  on  a stove  or  fire  of  coals,  stirring  it  con- 
stantly until  it  thickens,  then  pour  it  into  a basin  to  cool.  Set  a rich 
paste  round  the  edge  of  your  dish,  pour  in  your  pudding,  and  bake  it 
in  a moderate  oven.  A most  delicious  and  e.egant  article. 

A Cheshire  Pudding. 

1 lb.  of  raspberry  jam ; 4 oz.  of  butter;  1 cup  of  cream  or  butter* 
milk ; 1 1-2  lbs.  flour  ; 1 tablespoonful  of  saleratus. 

Rub  the  half  of  the  butter  into  the  flour,  warm  the  milk,  rub  the  sal- 
eratus fine  with  the  broad  blade  of  a knife  on  the  correr  of  a paste- 
board, then  scrape  it  in,  and  while  it  is  in  effervescence,  mix  with  the 
flour  and  the  rest  of  the  butter,  and  a dust  of  more  salt  if  necessary; 
then  roll  out  to  fourteen  or  fifteen  inches  long,  and  eight  or  nine  in 


OllStiRVAflONg  ON  MAKING  Fti'DDtKO  S,  ETC.  45 

width;  spread  with  the  jam*  and  roll  it  up  in  the  manner  of  collared 
eel ; have  a floured  cloth  ready,  and  wrap  it  two  or  three  times  around 
and  pin  it ; tie  it  tight  at  each  end.  Boil  in  plenty  of  water  two  hours. 
Serve  with  thickened  sweet  sauce,  with  some  rose-water  and  nutmeg* 
and  juice  of  a lemon. 

Nice  stewed  peaches  are  fine  in  this  dumpling,  with  cream,  sweet- 
ened, and  nutmeg  for  sauce.  Almost  any  acid  fruit  is  excellent  in 
this  way.  The  crust  should  be  light*  and  it  must  be  eat  as  soon  as 
done. 

Tapioca  Pudding . 

1 quart  of  milk ; 5 eggs  ; Seasoning  ; 1 coffee-cup  of  tapioca. 

Steep  the  tapioca  in  the  milk  two  hours,  put  it  in  cold,  let  it  warm  a 
little,  beat  up  the  eggs  well  with  sufficient  sugar*  a little  essence  of 
lemon.  Bake  half  an  hour,  eat  with  butter. 

Quince  Pudding . 

Scald  the  quinces  tender,  pare  them  thin,  scrape  off  the  pulp,  mix 
with  sugar  very  sweet,  and  add  a little  ginger  arid  cinnamon.  To  a 
pint  of  cream  put  three  or  four  yolks  of  eggs',  and  stir  it  into  the 
quinces  till  they  are  of  a good  thickness.  Butter  the  dish,  pour  it  in* 
and  bake  it. 

Baked  Potato  Pudding . 

12  oz.  of  boiled  potato  skinned  and  mashed  ; 1 os.  of  suet;  I os. 
of  cheese  grated  fine  ; 1 gill  of  milk. 

Mix  the  potatoes,  suet,  milk,  cheese,  and  all  together  ; if  not  of  a 
proper  consistence,  add  a little  water.  Bake  it  in  Carmarthen  pan. 

Almond  Pudding. 

1 lb.  of  blanched  almonds  ; 8 oz.  of  sugar  ; 1-2  glass  of  rose-water; 
1 pint  of  cream  ; 6 eggs. 

Put  the  rose-water  to  the  almonds  in  a marble  mortar*  pound  them 
fine ; beat  the  sugar  and  eggs  together  well,  the  sugar  being  nicely 
sifted  : put  all  into  a basin  and  stir  them  over  a few  coals,  well  together, 
until  they  are  Warm,  then  put  it  into  a thin  dish,  put  paste  only  around 
the  edges  (or  sides  of  the  dish)  bake  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 

Winter  Pudding. 

Take  the  crust  of  a baker’s  loaf  of  bread,  and  fill  it  with  plums ; 
boil  it  in  milk  and  water. 

Custard  Pudding. 

1 quart  of  milk ; 6 spoonsful  of  flour  ; 6 eggs  ; 1 nutmeg,  sugar  and 

butter. 

Boil  the  milk,  and,  whilst  scalding,  stir  in  the  flour,  set  to  cool  halt 
an  hour  before  it  is  wanted,  beat  up  the  eggs  nicely,  and  put  to  the 
milk  with  sufficient  salt ; bake  in  a quick  oven  twenty  minutes.  Rub 
nutmeg  with  nice  sugar  and  butter  for  sauce. 


46 


OBSERVATIONS  ON  MAKING  PUDDINGS,  ETC. 


Flour  Pudding . 

1 pint  of  milk  , 6 spoonsful  of  flour ; 6 eggs. 

Boil  the  milk,  stir  in  the  flour  whilst  scalding,  let  it  cool ; have  the 
water  boiling.  When  sufficiently  cool,  beat  the  eggs  well,  and  put 
them  in  with  salt  to  taste  ; boil  hard  one  hour.  Use  the  sauce  above. 

Sago  Pudding . 

4 spoonsful  of  sago  ; 4 eggs  ; 3 1-2  pints  of  milk  ; sugar  to  taste  ; 
lemon  peel,  cinnamon,  nutmegs. 

'Boil  the  milk  and  sago  nicely,  let  it  cool ; beat  the  eggs  up  perfectly 
with  some  sugar ; add  the  other  ingredients  ; then  mix  all  together,  put 
a nice  paste  round  the  dish,  pour  in  the  pudding,  and  bake  slowly. 

Boiled  Custard  Pudding . 

1 pint  of  new  milk;  orange-flower  water;  2 spoonsful  of  flour; 
cinnamon,  currant  jelly  ; yolks  of  five  eggs. 

Mix  the  flour  with  the  milk,  by  degrees  ; beat  the  yellows  and  other 
ingredients  with  a little  salt  together,  and  put  with  the  milk.  Butter 
a basin  that  will  exactly  hold  it,  pour  the  batter  in,  and  tie  a floured 
cloth  over  it.  Put  in  a kettle  of  boiling  water,  and  turn  it  about  a 
few  minutes  to  prevent  the  egg  from  settling  on  one  side.  Half  an 
hour  will  boil  it.  Pour  currant-jelly  over,  and  serve  with  sweet  sauce. 

Rice  Pudding . 

1 quart  of  milk  ; 1 stick  of  cinnamon  ; 4 oz.  of  rice  ; 4 spoonsful  of 
rose-water;  1-2  nutmeg;  8 eggs ; salt. 

Boil  the  rice  and  cinnamon  with  the  milk  ; stir  it  often  to  keep  from 
burning  ; cool ; add  the  nutmeg  and  other  ingredients,  having  beat  the 
eggs  well.  Butter  a pan  or  dish,  or  cover  the  dish  with  puff  paste; 
pour  the  above  composition  in  ; bake  one  hour  and  a half.  Serve  with 
butter  and  sugar. 

An  Apple  Pudding  Dumpling . 

Put  into  a nice  paste,  quartered  apples,  tie  up  in  a floured  cloth,  and 
boil  two  hours  ; serve  with  sweet  sauce. 

Pears,  plums,  peaches,  &c.,  are  line  done  this  way. 

Indian  Pudding. 

3 pints  of  milk;  1-4  lb.  of  butter;  7 eggs;  7 spoonsful  of  Indian 
meal ; 1-2  lb.  of  raisins  ; spice,  salt,  sugar  to  taste. 

Scald  the  milk,  and  stir  it  in  the  meal  whilst  boiling ; set  it  to  cool ; 
stone  and  put  in  the  raisins,  salt,  and  spice ; then  beat  the  eggs  well, 
and  if  only  milk-warm,  put  them  in  ; stir  all  well  together ; bake  an 
hour  and  a half,  good  heat. 

A Superb  Lemon  Pudding. 

1-2  lb.  of  sugar;  5 eggs ; 1-2  lb.  best  butter  ; 1 glass  of  rose-water; 
1 lemon  ; 1 glass  orange-flower  water. 

Beat  the  r3se-water  and  butter  to  a froth  ; prepare  the  sugar  and  eggs 


PUL.D2NG3,  ETC. 


OBSERVATIONS  ON  MAKING  FUNDINGS,  ETC.  ^ 

the  lemon-rind  in,  but 

after  incorporating  the  puddino-  well  L‘  ?,  ‘e  read''. ln  y°ur  dish,  and, 
Bake  in  a moderate  oven 0®^  n ’ P01",'  It.,nto  -vour  1**8. 

■*»  * P—  m^JSZStiSS  " “*  ,h*  ““ 

Boston  Apple  Pudding. 

mon!  fwsafl1Temo;VtngLbto^ ^teVSKm^’  1 ^ 5 “ 

thenriith^’littfe  Zerlnft^X"  wil!  J“*  hold 

stew  over  a slow  fire tm  quit«  S thj  P I®  pSei  ?f  the  ,emon  in  i 
sieve;  beat  the  eggs  and  grated  ™ mi  and  Pass  trough  a 

lemon,  then  mix  af  weU?  ifne  tile  insidf  °jtP  W?th  *®  Juice  of  a 
puff-paste,  put  in  youTpudd'h^,  bakerhldf  antiwar  ^ With'^ 

Newmarket  Pudding. 

bake  it  half  hour.  r • th«n  '*J  the  cuM.td  over,  and 

Vermicelli  Pudding. 

loaf  sugar;  salt  to  taste™0" pintofraUk™011 5 5 y°IkS’  3 Whites  eggs  5 

thr“h,‘“,iS![pWuf‘nl t,'v“c5?  Sgf  ”‘I  “*<» 

eggs  well  beaten  ; when  sufficiently  cool  m ®nf^lnut.es’  co°]>  have  the 
together,  ,„d  ,t,am  &>&* 

Suet  Pudding. 

spoons  of  flour 2 ’ * 2 P'-nt  °f  milk  ’ 1 sPoon  of  ginger;  3 table- 

«o“rte.uhe'^%rid'°i  “ “■  v*  w«"  "»« 

that  has  been  dipped  into’  boiling  water  ^ Sp‘CeSi.  ^°ur  a c,otl11 

'vater,  boil  hard  an  hour  and  a qfartel  ’ Seri  af’  P U lnto  boi!ing 
with  the  squeeze  of  a lemon  irUt  ® ® 1 sweetened  sauce, 

, . Spring  Pudding. 

of  cinnamon;  lAemmh^  ^ pie"Plant)  > 1-2  i[>-  of]  af  sugar;  1 spoon 

with  the  grated  rindTf  the  lemon  Ut  S|k°^’ t!ll  ow  il  into  tfie  stew-pan 
cook,  reduce  it  to  a marrnatdt  ’ a"iC!nnam°n=  and  sugar  ; set  it  to 

dish  with  good  puff-paste  and  Dour^fi^^ ! a-bair  sieve’  have  a Pie* 
f Past®!  and  P°l,r  thc  P«dding  in  ; bake  half  an  hour. 


£8  OBSERVATIONS  ON  MAKING  PUDDINGS,  ETC* 


Batter  Pudding . 

6 oz.  flour;  salt;  3 eggs;  1 pint  of  milk. 

Have  the  milk  boiled,  and  beat  the  eggs  well ; add  milk  until  it  is 
smooth,  the  thickness  of  cream;  mix  all  well  together,  then  have  a dish 
buttered  that  will  just  hol^it.  Bake  three  quarters  of  an  hour  ; or  it 
is  nice  to  boiljas  before  directed.  Boil  one  and  a half  or  two  hours. 

Bread  Pudding. 

4 eggs ; one  stick  of  cinnamon  ; 1 pint  of  milk ; sugar,  nutmeg  \ 
1 pint  crumbs  of  bread  ; salt  to  taste. 

f Boil  the  bread  and  milk  with  the  cinnamon  ten  minutes,  then  cook 
pass  through  a sieve  ; beat  the  eggs  very  well,  and  add  to  the  batter, 
sweeten,  and  salt,  mix  well  together,  bake  half  an  hour;  or,  boil  one 
hour  and  a quarter. 

Nottingham  Pudding. 

6 fine  sour  apples ; sugar. 

Prepare  the  batter  as  for  the  above  batter  pudding,  peel  the  apples, 
and  take  out  the  core  with  a sharp-pointed  penknife,  but  do  not  cut  the 
apple  open  ; fill  the  space  with  sugpr,  (where  the  core  was  taken 
from),  after  setting  them  in  a pudding-dish  ; then  pour  tne  batter  over 
them,  bake  in  a moderate  oven  one  hour. 


SMALL  DISHES  FOR  SUPPER  OR  TEA. 

Poached  Eggs. 

6 eggs ; six  slices  of  bread  ; 1-4  lb.  of  butter. 

Draw  the  butter  nicely,  have  ready  a nice  kettle  of  boiling  water, 
toast  the  bread  of  a light  brown,  wet  with  the  drawn  butter,  and  place 
in  a covered  dish  ; break  the  eggs  one  at  a time  into  a teacup,  and 
drop  into  the  boiling  water,  (having  thrown  some  salt  in);  two  will 
cook  at  once.  When  cooked  to  suit,  slip  a skimmer  under  and  place 
them  upon  toast ; drop  in  more,  and  so  on,  until  all  are  cooked  1 hen 
pour  the  remainder  of  the  butter  over. 

Custards. 


1 quart  of  cream,  or  new  milk  ; nutmeg ; 8 eggs  ; 1 oz.  of  sugar. 

Beat  the  eggs  and  sugar  well  together,  grate  in  some  nutmeg,  add 
the  cream  by  degrees,  stirring  it  all  the  while;  set  your  custard-cups 
in  a dripping-pan,  pour  the  custard  into  the  cups,  set  the  dripping-pan 
into  the  oven,  then  pour  water  around.  Bake  in  a quick  oven. 


Orange  Custards. 

1 Seville  orange ; rose-water ; 1-2  oz.  of  loaf  sugar  ; 1 pint  of 
cream ; 4 eggs.  , , 

Squeeze  the  juice  from  a Seville  orange,  take  half  of  the  peel  an 
boil  very  tender  beat  it  in  a (marble)  mortar  until  fine;  pn .toil  two 
sjkns  of  rose-water,  the  juice  of  the  orange,  the  sugar,  and  the  yel- 


ON  MAKING  SMALL  DISHES  FOR  SUPPER  OR  TEA.  49 

lows  of  the  eggs.  Beat  all  together  for  ten  minutes,  then  have  ready 
the  cream  boiling  hot,  which  put  to  them  by  degrees ; beat  them  until 
cold,  then  put  them  into  custard- cups,  in  a dish  of  hot  water.  Let 
them  stand  until  they  are  set,  then  take  them  out  and  stick  preserved 
orange  peel  on  the  top.  This  forms  a fine  flavored  ffish,  and  may  he 
served  up  hot  or  cold. 

Some  are  fond  of  sippets  of  toast  in  cups  of  cusU..  i. 

Dried  beef,  sliced  thin,  is  nice  for  tea ; or  venison,  dried,  is  nice,  sliced 
thin  ; or  mutton,  dried,  and  sliced  thin,  is  nice,  together  with  good  bread 
and  good  butter,  and  a dish  of  fruit,  cheese,  and  a plate  of  cake  of 
some  kind.  Some  nice  corned  beef,  sliced  thin,  is  a substitute  for 
dried ; cold  boiled  ham,  sliced  thin,  is  a good  relish,  or  cold  tongue,  for 
tea.  Some  are  fond  of  other  cold  meats  of  any  kind,  nicely  sliced 
thin.  The  manner  of  doing  things  is  a great  deal. 

Ice  Currants . 

Take  large  bunches  of  ripe  currants,  have  them  clean,  whisk  the 
white  of  an  egg  to  a froth,  and  dip  them  in  it,  lay  them  on  a sieve  or 
plate  not  to  be  touched,  sift  double  refined  sugar  over  them  very  thick, 
and  dry  them  in  a cool  oven. 

Icing  for  Cake. 

2 lbs.  double  refined  sugar ; 5 eggs ; 1 spoon  of  fine  starch ; 1 spoon 
rose-water ; 1 pennyworth  gum  Arabic  in  powder ; 1 juice  of  lemon. 

Make  the  sugar  fine,  and  sift  it  through  a hair  sieve,  rub  the  starch 
fine,  sift,  and  the  gum  Arabic  sift  also  ; beat  or  stir  all  well  together. 
Take  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  whisk  them  well,  put  one  spoonful  of 
rose-water,  one  spoon  of  the  juice  of  lemon,  beat  well  together,  then 
put  to  the  sugar  by  degrees,  until  you  wet  it,  then  beat  it  until  the 
cake  is  baked ; lay  it  on  with  a knife,  and  the  ornaments,  if  you  have 
any ; and  if  it  does  not  harden  sufficiently  from  the  warmth  of  the 
cake,  return  it  to  the  oven.  Be  careful  not  to  discolor. 

Ice  Cream. 

2 quarts  of  milk;  2 oz.  of  sugar;  12  eggs;  2 lemons. 

Grate  the  peels  into  the  milk,  and  boil ; sweeten ; take  the  yellows 
of  all  of  the  eggs,  and  half  of  the  whites ; beat  them  well,  then  add 
the  boiling  milk,  keep  them  stirring,  set  the  dish  over  the  fire  five  min- 
utes, stirring  it  constantly,  then  pour  through  a sieve  into  your  freez- 
ing-pot. The  proportions  to  surround  the  pot  is  one  quart  of  salt  to 
one  pail  full  of  ice.  Place  it  in  as  cold  a place  as  possible ; as  fast 
as  it  freezes  on  the  sides,  remove  it  with  the  spoon.  One  hour  is  suf- 
ficient to  freeze  it. 

Scotch  Marmalade. 

2 lbs.  honey  ; 2 pints  juice  of  Seville  oranges. 

Squeeze  the  juice  from  the  oranges,  put  them  together,  and  boil  in 
a nice,  well  tinned  stew-pan,  and  boil  to  a proper  consistence. 

3 


60 


PICKLING. 


Ice  Cream  with  Fruit. 

1 pound  of  preserved  fruit;  2 lemons ; 1 quart  of  cream  ; cochineal. 

Squeeze  the  juice  of  the  lemons  into  some  sugar  to  taste  ; then  pass 
all  through  a sieve,  and  if  raspberry,  or  strawberry,  or  any  other  ripe 
fruit,  add  a little  cochineal  to  heighten  the  color.  Have  the  freezing- 
pot  nice  and  clean,  put  the  cream  into  it,  and  cover  it ; then  put  the 
pot  into  the  tub  with  the  ice  beat  small,  and  some  salt ; turn  the  freez- 
ing-pot quick,  and  as  the  cream  sticks  to  the  sides,  scrape  it  down  with 
an  ice-spoon,  and  so  on  until  it  is  frozen.  The  more  the  cream  is 
worked  to  the  side  with  a spoon,  the  smoother  and  better  it  will  be  fla- 
vored. After  it  is  well  frozen,  take  it  out  and  put  it  into  ice  shapes 
with  salt  and  ice ; then  carefully  wash  the  shapes  for  fear  of  any  salt 
adhering  to  them  ; dip  them  in  lukewarm  water,  and  send  to  the  table. 
Fresh  fruit,  strawberries,  or  raspberries,  are  nice,  but  more  sugar  will 
be  necessary; 

Currant  Jelly , to  ifae  with  Venison. 

10  lbs.  of  the  juice  of  red  currants  ; 8 lbs.  clean  brown  sugar. 

As  the  currants  may,  for  this  jelly,  get  very  ripe,  they  can  be  broken 
through  a colander,  and  then  be  cleaned  with  flannel  jelly-bags. 
When  perfectly  clean,  add  the  sugar,  boil  and  skim  until  it  jellies; 
which  is  known  by  dipping  in  a spoon  and  holding  it  in  the  air ; when 
it  hangs  in  a drop  to  the  spoon,  it  is  done  : pour  into  pots ; when  cold,, 
cover  as  before  directed. 

Another  way. 

4 lbs.  double  refined  sugar ; 4 lbs.  of  clear  juice  extracted  in  a jar. 

Stir  gently  and  smoothly  for  three  hours,  then  put  into  glasses,  and 
in  three  days  it  will  concrete  into  a firm  jelly  : then  cover  and  set  by 
for  use. 

Black  Currant  Jelly. 

6 quarts  of  juice ; 9 pounds  of  sugar. 

To  ten  quarts  of  the  dry  fruit,  add  one  quart  of  water ; out  them  in 
a large  stew-pot,  tie  paper  close  over  them,  and  set  them  for  two  hours 
in  a cool  oven.  Squeeze  them  through  a fine  cloth,  and  add  to  every 
quart  of  juice  a pound  and  a half  of  sugar  loaf,  broken  in  small 
pieces.  Stir  it  until  the  sugar  is  melted  ; when  it  boils,  skim  it  quite 
clear.  Boil  it  quick  over  a clear  fire  till  it  jellies ; try  it  as  above 
directed.  If  jelly  is  boiled  too  long,  it  will  lose  its  flavor,  and  shrink 
very  much : pot  and  cover. 


PICKLING. 

This  branch  of  domestic  economy  comprises  a great  variety  of  arti 
cles,  which  are  essentially  necessary  to  the  convenience  of  families. 
It  is  at  the  same  time  too  prevalent  a practice  to  make  use  of  brass 
utensils  to  give  pickle  a fine  color.  This  pernicious  custom  is  easily 
avoided  by  heating  the  liquor,  and  keeping  it  in  a proper  degree  of 


PICKLING. 


51 


warmth  before  it  is  pourea  upon  the  prakle.  Stone  jars  are  the  best 
adapted  for  sound  keeping.  Pickles  should  never  be  handled  with  the 
finger,  but  by  a spoon  kept  for  the  purpose. 

To  pickle  Onions . 

Put  a sufficient  quantity  into  salt  and  water,  for  nine  days,  observ- 
ing to  change  the  water  every  day ; next  put  them  into  jars,  and  pour 
fresh  boiling  salt  and  water  over  them,  cover  them  close  up  till  they 
are  cold,  then  make  a second  decoction  of  salt  and  water,  and  pour  it 
on  boiling.  When  it  is  cold,  drain  the  onions  on  a hair  sieve:  and  put 
them  into  wide-mouthed  bottles;  fill  them  up  with  distilled  vinegar ; 
put  into  every  bottle  a slice  or  two  of  ginger,  a blade  of  mace,  and  a 
teaspoonful  of  sweet  oil ; which  will  keep  the  onions  white.  Cork 
them  well  up  in  a dry  place. 

Mushrooms . 

Put  the  smallest  that  can  be  got  into  spring  water,  and  rub  them 
with  a piece  of  new  flannel  dipped  in  salt.  Throw  them  into  cold 
water  as  they  are  cleaned,  which  will  make  them  keep  their  color : 
next  put  them  into  a sauce-pan,  with  a handful  of  salt  upon  them. 
Cover  them  close,  and  set  them  over  the  fire  four  or  five  minutes,  or 
till  the  heat  draws  the  liquor  from  them  ; next  lay  them  betwixt  two 
dry  cloths  till  they  are  cold  ; put  them  into  glass  bottles,  and  fill  them 
up  with  distilled  vinegar,  with  a blade  of  mace  and  a teaspoonful  of 
sweet  oil  into  every  bottle ; cork  them  up  close,  and  place  them  in  a 
dry,  cool  place  ; as  a substitute  for  distilled  vinegar,  use  white  wine 
vinegar,  or  ale.  Allegar  will  do,  but  it  must  be  boiled  with  a little 
mace,  salt,  and  a few  slices  of  ginger,  and  it  must  be  quite  cold  before 
it  is  poured  upon  the  mushrooms. 

Another  method. — Bruise  a quantity  of  well  grown  flaps  of  mush- 
rooms with  the  hands,  and  then  strew  a fair  proportion  of  salt  over 
them  ; let  them  stand  all  night,  and  the  next  day  put  them  into  stew- 
pans  ; set  them  in  a quick  oven  for  twelve  hours,  and  strain  them 
through  a hair  sieve.  To  every  gallon  of  liquor,  put  of  cloves,  Ja- 
maica black  pepper,  and  ginger,  one  ounce  each,  1-2  lb.  of  common 
salt ; set  it  on  a slow  fire,  and  let  it  boil  till  half  the  liquor  is  wasted ; 
then  put  it  into  a clean  pot,  and  when  cold,  bottle  it  for  use. 

Salmon. 

*Boil  the  fish  gently  till  done,  and  then  take  it  up,  strain  the  liquor, 
add  bay  leaves,  pepper-corns,  and  salt ; give  these  a boil,  and  when 
cold,  add  the  best  vinegar  to  them ; then  put  the  whole  sufficiently 
over  the  fish  to  cover  it,  and  let  it  remain  a month  at  least. 

To  salt  Hams. 

For  three  hams,  pound  and  mix  together  half  a peck  of  salt,  half  an 
ounce  of  salt  prunella,  three  ounces  of  saltpetre,  and  four  . pounds  of 
coarse  salt;  rub  the  hams  well  with  this,  and  lay  what  is  to  spare  over 
them  ; let  them  lie  three  days,  then  hang  them  up.  Take  the  pickle 
in  which  the  hams  were,  put  water  enough  to  cover  the  hams,  with 


62 


PASTE  Y,  ETC. 


more  common  salt,  till  it  will  bear  an  egg,  then  boil  anu  skim  it  well, 
put  it  in  the  salting  tub,  and  the  next  morning  put  it  to  the  hams ; 
keep  them  down  the  same  as  pickled  pork ; in  a fortnight  take  them 
out  of  the  liquor,  rub  them  well  with  brine,  and  hang  them  up  to  dry. 

To  dry  salt  Beef  and  Po  1c. 

Lay  the  meat  on  a table,  or  in  a tub,  with  a double  bottom,  that  the 
brine  may  drain  off  as  fast  as  it  forms ; rub  the  salt  well  in,  and  be 
careful  to  apply  it  to  every  niche  ; afterwards  put  it  into  either  of  the 
above  utensils,  when  it  must  be  frequently  turned;  after  the  brine  has 
ceased  running,  it  must  be  quite  buried  in  salt,  and  kept  closely  packed. 
Meat  which  has  had  the  bones  taken  out,  is  the  best  for  salting.  Tn 
some  places,  the  salted  meat  is  pressed  by  heavy  weights  or  a screw,  to 
extract  the  moisture  sooner. 

To  jpickle  in  Brine. 

A good  brine  is  made  of  bay  salt  and  water,  thoroughly  saturated, 
so  that  some  of  the  salt  remains  undissolved ; into  this  brine  the  sub- 
stances to  be  preserved  are  plunged,  and  kept  covered  wjth  it.  Among 
vegetables,  French  beans,  artichokes,  olives,  and  the  different  sorts  of 
samphire  may  be  thus  preserved,  and  among  animals,  herrings. 


PASTRY,  ETC. 

To  make  a rich  Plum  Cake. 

Take  one  pound  of  fresh  butter,  one  pound  of  sugar,  one  pound  and 
a half  of  flour,  two  pounds  of  currants,  a glass  of  brandy,  one  pound 
of  sweetmeats,  two  ounces  of  sweet  almonds,  ten  eggs,  a quarter  of  an 
ounce  of  allspice,  and  a quarter  of  an  ounce  of  cinnamon/ 

Melt  the  butter  to  a cream,  and  put  in  the  sugar.  Stir  it  till  quite 
light,  adding  the  allspice,  and  pounded  cinnamon ; in  a quarter  of  an 
hour  take  the  yolks  of  the  eggs,  and  work  them  in,  two  or  three  at  a 
time ; and  the  whites  of  the  same  must  by  this  time  be  beaten  into  a 
strong  snow  quite  ready  to  work  in ; as  the  paste  must  not  stand  to 
chill  the  butter,  or  it  will  be  heavy,  work  in  the  whites  gradually  ; then 
add  the  orange-peel,  lemon  and  citron,  cut  in  fine  strips,  and  the  currants, 
which  must  be  mixed  in  well,  with  the  sweet  almonds.  Then  add  the 
sifted  flour  and  glass  of  brandy.  Bake  this  cake  in  a tin  hoop  in  a hot 
oven  for  three  hours,  and  put  twelve  sheets  of  paper  under  it  to  keep  it 
from  burning 

A ylain  Pound  Cake. 

Beat  one  pound  of  butter  in  an  earthen  pan  until  it  is  like  a fine 
thick  cream,  then  beat  in  nine  whole  eggs  till  quite  light.  Put  in  a 
glass  of  brandy,  a little  lemon-peel,,  shred  fine,  then  work  in  a pound 
and  a quarter  of  flour ; put  it  into  the  hoop  or  pan,  and  bake  it  for  an 
hour.  A pound  plum  cake  is  made  the  same,  with  putting  one  pound 
and  a half  of  clean  washed  currants,  and  half  ^ pound  of  candied 
enion  peel. 


PASTRY,  ETC. 


53 


Rice  Cakes. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  fifteen  eggs  for  nearly  half  an  hour,  with  a whisk; 
mix  well  with  them  ten  ounces  of  fine  sifted  loaf  sugar,  put  in  half  a 
pound  of  ground  rice,  a little  orange- water  or  brandy,  and  the  rinds  ol 
two  lemons  grated,  then  add  the  whites  of  seven  eggs  well  beaten,  and 
stir  the  whole  together  for  a quarter  of  an  hour.  Put  them  into  a hoop* 
and  set  them  in  a quick  oven  for  half  an  hour,  when  they  will  be  prop- 
erly done. 

Lemon  Cakes. 

Take  one  pound  of  sugar,  three  quarters  of  a pound  of  flour,  four- 
teen eggs,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  rose-water,  the  raspings  and  juice  of 
four  lemons  ; when  the  yolks  are  well  beat  up  and  separated,  add  the 
powder  sugar,  the  lemon  raspings,  the  juice,  and  the  rose-water;  beat 
them  well  together  in  a pan  with  a round  bottom,  till  it  becomes  quite 
light,  for  half  an  hour.  Put  the  paste  to  the  whites,  previously  well 
whisked  about,  and  mix  it  very  light.  When  well  mixed,  sift  in  the 
flour,  and  knead  it  in  with  the  paste,  as  light  as  possible ; form  the 
biscuits,  and  bake  them  in  small  oval  tins,  with  six  sheets  of  paper 
under  them,  in  a moderate  heat.  Butter  the  tins  well,  or  it  will  prove 
difficult  to  take  out  the  biscuits,  which  will  be  exceedingly  nice  if 
well  made.  Ice  them  previous  to  baking,  but  very  lightly  and  even. 

Plain  Gingerbread. 

Mix  three  pounds  of  flour  with  four  ounces  of  moist  sugar,  half  an 
ounce  of  powdered  ginger,  and  one  pound  and  a quarter  of  warm  trea- 
cle ; melt  half  a pound  of  fresh  butter  in  it,  put  it  to  the  flour,  and  make 
it  a paste ; then  form  it  into  nuts  or  cakes,  or  bake  it  in  one  cake. 

Another  method. — Mix  six  pounds  of  flour  with  two  ounces  of  car- 
raway-seeds,  two  ounces  of  ground  ginger,  two  ounces  of  candied 
orange-peel,  the  same  of  candied  lemon-peel  cut  in  pieces,  a little  salt, 
and  six  ounces  of  moist  sugar : melt  one  pound  of  fresh  butter  in 
about  half  a pint  of  milk,  pour  it  by  degrees  into  four  pounds  of  trea- 
cle, stir  it  well  together,  and  add  it,  a little  at  a time,  to  the  flour ; mix 
it  thoroughly ; make  it  into  a paste ; roll  if  out  rather  thin,  and  cut 
into  cakes  with  the  top  of  a dredger  or  wine-glass ; put  them  on 
floured  tins,  and  bake  them  in  rather  a brisk  oven. 

Cream  Cakes. 

Beat  the  whites  of  nine  eggs  to  a stiff  froth,  stir  it  gently  with  a 
spoon,  lest  the  froth  should  fall,  and  to  every  white  of  an  egg  grate 
the  rinds  of  two  lemons ; shake  in  gently  a spoonful  of  double  refined 
sugar  sifted  fine,  lay  a wet  sheet  of  paper  on  a tin,  and  with  a spoon 
drop  the  froth  in  little  lumps  on  it  near  each  other.  Sift  a good  quan- 
tity of  sugar  over  them,  set  them  in  the  oven  after  the  bread  is  out, 
and  close  up  the  mouth  of  it,  which  will  occasion  the  froth  to  rise. 
As  soon  as  they  are  colored  they  will  be  sufficiently  baked ; lay  them 
by  two  bottoms  together  on  a sieve,  and  dry  them  in  a cool  oven. 

Crumpets. 

♦Set  two  pounds  of  flour  with  a little  salt  before  the  fire  till  quite 


54 


PASTRY,  ETC. 


warm : then  mix  it  with  warm  milk  and  water  till  it  is  as  stiff  as  it 
can  je  stirred ; let  the  milk  be  as  warm  as  it  can  be  borne  with  the 

a cu^  this  with  tbree  eg£s  well  beaten,  and  mixed 
with  three  spoonfuls  of  very  thick  yeast;  then  put  this  to  the  batter, 
A a We-n together  in  a large  pan  or  bowl,  add  as  much 

,l\ndrWalr  Wl  n?ake  into  a thlck  batter;  cover  it  close,  and 
put  it  before  the  fire  to  rise ; put  a bit  of  butter  in  a piece  of  thin  mus- 
lin, tie  it  up,  and  rub  it  lightly  over  the  iron  hearth  or  frying-pan ; then 
pour  on  a sufficient  quantity  of  batter  at  a time  to  make  one  crumpet; 
f j slowiy’  be  very  light.  Bake  them  all  the  same 

way.  I hey  should  not  be  brown,  but  of  a fine  yellow. 


Muffins. 

Mix  a quartern  of  fine  flour,  1 1-2  pints  of  warm  milk  and  water, 
with  1-4  of  a pint  of  good  yeast,  and  a little  salt;  stir  them  together 
tor  a quarter  of  an  hour,  then  strain  the  liquor  into  a quarter  of  a peck 
of  fine  flour ; mix  the  dough  well,  and  set  it  to  rise  for  an  hour,  then 
roll  it  up  and  pull  it  into  small  pieces,  make  them  up  in  the  hand  like 
balls,  and  lay  a flannel  over  them  while  rolling,  to  keep  them  warm. 
The  dough  should  be  closely  covered  up  the  whole  time ; when  the 
whole  is  rolled  into  balls,  the  first  that  are  made  will  be  ready  for 
baking.  When  they  are  spread  out  in  the  right  form  for  muffins,  lay 
them  on  tins  and  bake  them,  and  as  the  bottoms  begin  to  change  color, 
turn  them  on  the  other  side. 


Common  Buns. 

Rub  four  ounces  of  butter  into  twTo  pounds  of  flour,  a little  salt,  four 
ounces  of  sugar,  a dessert-spoonful  of  carraways,  and  a teaspoonful  of 
ginger  ; put  some  warm  milk  or  cream  to  four  tablespoonfuls  of  yeast ; 
mix  all  together  into  a paste,  but  not  too  stiff*;  cover  it  over,  and  set  it 
before  the  fire  an  hour  to  rise,  then  make  it  into  buns,  put  them  on  a 
tin,  set  them  before  the  fire  for  a quarter  of  an  hour,  cover  over  with 
flannel,  then  brush  them  with  very,  warm  milk,  and  bake  them  of  a 
nice  brown  in  a moderate  oven. 

Rusks. 

Beat  up  seven  eggs,  mix  them  with  half  a pint  of  warm  new  milk, 
in  which  a quarter  of  a pound  of  butter  has  been  melted,  add  a quar- 
ter of  a pint  of  yeast,  and  three  ounces  of  sugar ; put  them  gradually 
into  as  much  flour  as  will  make  a light  paste  nearly  as  thin  as  batter ; 
let  it  rise  before  the  fire  half  an  hour,  add  more  flour  to  make  it  a little 
stiffer,  work  it  well,  and  divide  it  into  small  loaves,  or  cakes,  about 
five  or  six  inches  wide,  and  flatten  them.  * When  baked  and  cold,  put 
them  into  the  oven  to  brown  a little.  These  cakes,  when  first  baked, 
are  very  good  buttered  for  tea ; if  they  are  made  with  ce.rraway  seeds, 
they  eat  very  nice  cold. 

* Baked  Custards. 

Boil  a pint  of  cream  with  some  mace  and  cinnamon,  and  when  it  is 
cold,  take  four  yolks  of  eggs,  a little  rose-water,  sack,  nutmeg,  and 
sugar,  to  taste ; mix  them  well  and  bake  them. 


THE.  CANARY  BIRD  FANCIER. 


55 


Lemon  Custards . 

Take  half  a pound  of  double  refined  sugar,  the  juice  of  two  lemons, 
the  rind  of  one  pared  very  thin,  the  inner  rind  of  one  boiled  tender,  and 
rubbed  through  a sieve,  and  a pint  of  white  wine  ; boil  them  for  some 
time,  then  take  out  the  peel  and  a little  of  the  liquor ; strain  them  into 
the  dish,  stir  them  well  together,  and  set  them  to  cool. 

Orange  or  Lemon  Pie . 

Rub  six  oranges  or  lemons  with  salt,  and  put  them  into  water,  with 
a handful  of  salt,  for  two  days.  Put  every  day  fresh  water  without 
salt,  for  a fortnight.  Boil  them  tender,  cut  them  into  half  quarters, 
corner  ways,  quite  thin ; boil  six  pippins,  pared,  cored,  and  quartered, 
in  a pint  of  water  till  they  break,  then  put  the  liquor  to  the  oranges  or 
lemons,  with  half  the  pulp  of  the  pippins  well  broken,  and  a pound  ol 
sugar  ; boil  them  a quarter  of  an  hour,  then  put  them  into  a pot  and 
squeeze  in  two  spoonfuls  of  the  juice  of  either  orange  or  lemon,  ac- 
cording to  the  kind  of  tart ; put  puff  paste,  very  thin,  into  shallow 
patty-pans.  Take  a brush,  and  rub  them  over  with  melted  butter,  sift, 
double  refined  sugar  over  them,  which  will  form  a pretty  icing,  and 
bake  them. 


THE  CANARY  BIRD  FANCIER. 

For  the  amusement  of  our  leisure  hours,  I know  not  that  a more 
innocent  or  rational  pursuit  can  be  recommended  than  that  of  rearing 
these  harmonious  songsters. 

In  many  of  the  principal  cities  and  towns,  the  industrious  mechanic 
and  manufacturer  are  enabled  to  pay  the  entire  of  their  rents,  and  to 
add  to  their  comforts,  by  attending,  in  the  intervals  of  their  labor,  to 
the  rearing  and  management  of  these  pleasing  little  warblers. 
Pleasure  is  thus  blended  with  profit ; and  our  pretty  songsters  help  to 
“feed  the  hungry  and  clothe  the  naked.” 

To  the  gentleman  fancier  they  afford  an  equal  degree  of  amusement 
and  delight ; and,  if  profit  were  his  object,  the  prices  which  are  fre- 
quently given  for  well-bred  birds,  sufficiently  prove  that  they  may  he 
easily  obtained.  I will  only  add,  the  directions  here  given  for  their 
treatment  in  cases  of  illness,  are  the  result  of  practical  knowledge,  and 
many  years’  experience  of  their  efficacy. 


(1.)  Of  the  general  characteristics  of  Canaries . 

Canaries  are  not  naturally' so  delicate  as  they  are  thought  to  be, 
but  become  so  from  the  little  attention  and  improper  treatment  that  is 
sometimes  paid  them.  It  may  be  said  with  truth,  that  they  excel 
most  other  birds  in  their  good  qualities — 1st,  In  the  sweetness  and 
melody  of  their  song,  which  continues  nearly  the  whole  of  the  year, 
excepting  only  the  time  of  moulting,  during  which  they  are  generally 
silent;  although  some,  in  spite  of  their  annual  illness,  do  not  even 
then  lose  their  song.  2dly,  By  their  rich  and  beautiful  plumage,  which 


56 


THE  CANARY  BIRD  FANCIER. 


r!Sayed  S6Ven  °r  ei^ht  different  colors,  musing  a variety  of  cor- 

theC^HoX  nameh-  l|?  -be  glVGn  them  by  different  fanciers.  Idly,  By 
their  docility;  which  is  manifested  by  their  learning  quicklv  a varied 
of  pleasing  little  tricks-such  as  coming  at  the  order^fThlir  mS 
and  even  pronouncing  distinctly  several  words.  Add  to  this  their  ant- 
ness  ,n  learning  airs,  by  means  of  a flageolet  or  bird-organ  even  keen 

B »•  SSSSZ 

(2.)  The  proper  time  for  pairing  Canaries. 

or  titer  end  ITm*  &enei;aI1y  commences  about  the  middle 

atter  end  of  March,  but  in  some  degree  depends  upon  the  weather 

the  fmst eh°d’  aelng  ge“  j1  °r  otherwise-  The  best  criterion  is,  when 
the  frosts  have  disappeared,  and  the  rays  of  the  sun  begin  to  shed  the 
enlivening  warmth,  which,  at  the  time  I have  named,  if  generally  the 

You  may  then  pair  them  in  the  following  manner : Take  a small 

wh1chWahreh  IS  Wel1  cleaned  ;,be  careful  there  are  no  small  red  insects, 
which  are  very  injurious,  and  of  which  I shall  hereafter  speak.  Se- 

LetW*?^  and  hen  Canafyy°u  intend  to  pair,  and  put  them  in  to- 
gether,  as  they  sooner  match  in  a small  cage  than  in  a large  one. 

as  * vou^wif/ snfSt  they.,may  fight  a.nd : quarrel,  let  not  this  alarm  you, 

’ chwil1  b'  kn“" b!,,helr 

in^manupt11.6  £“?  they  “°  PrePari?g’  they  must  be  fed  in  the  follow- 
mg  inanner  Boil  an  egg  very  hard,  and  chop  or  grate  it  very  fine,  to 

7u  un  wed  ;elCrUmbled,  etqUal';T  fi?e’  a iittle  maw  seed»  and  mix  this 
all  up  well  together  m a plate,  and  give  the  birds  a tablespoonful  twice 

a day.  in  ten  days  (sometimes  much  sooner)  they  will  be  paired. 

(3.)  The  most  advantageous  place  for  the  Breeding  Cao-e 

fwatothe;bJeUed?r?re  W * * in  the  success  that 

For  instance,  if  the  cage  be  in  a dark  room,  where  the  sun  seldom 

°Vhe  Cage> tbe  y°“ng:  birds  that  mav  be 
bied  will  be  weakly,  dull,  and  small;  and  not  equal  in  three  weeks 
“ b‘T°f  ten  days  old,  which  are  bred  in  a more  cheerful  situation  ; 
so  that  if  you  wish  to  procure  fine  birds,  let  your  breeding  cage  be  in 
a wblcb  enj°ys  the  morning  sun,  and  on  which  it  continues,  if 
possible,  the  best  part  of  the  forenoon,  which  is  preferable,  to  a room 
w lere  le  sun  shines  only  in  the  afternoon,  as  the  excessive  heat  then 
sometimes  causes  the  hen  to  fall  ill,  and  forsake  her  nest ; it  likewise 
occasions  what  may  be  termed  a sweating  sickness,  and  causes  the 
Wpp  l t0  ,mites>  which  destroy  the  young  ones,  sucking  their 

blood,  and  sticking  to  them  with  the  most  obstinate  pertinacity,  as  long 
fifo  6 re“al,I}s-  1 do  not  now  speak  of  a variety  of  accidents'  to  which 
tney  are  liable,  as  having  clear  and  unproductive  eggs,  or  beimr  in  a 
room  which  does  not  suit  their  temper,  for  they  have  their  preferences 


THE  CANARY  BIRD  FANCIER. 


57 

and  antipathies,  and  their  behavior  in  their  room  or  cage  will  readily 
testify  their  satisfaction  or  dislike  to  it.  J 

(4.)  Observations  on  the  mode  of  Fairing. 

The  original  Canary,  which  was  of  a dusky  buff  and  dark  green 
color,  is  now  but.  little  esteemed  in  comparison  with  the  birds  distin- 
guished by  the  terms  jonque  and  mealy.  In  pairing,  care  should  be 
taaen  not  to  put  a cock  and  hen  both  mealy,  otherwise  the  color  of  the 
young  ones  would  degenerate  to  a disagreeable  dirty  or  whitish  tint  • 
ut  rather  you  should  pair  a fine  jonque  or  yellow  cock  with  a mealy 

ryfr-  u'U  m?y  th™  exPect  the  y°un8'  birds>  particularly  the  cocks, 
to  follow  the  color  of  the  father.  So  also  is  it  with  streaked,  striped 
spotted  or  various  colored  birds,  taking  care,  if  the  predominant  color 
be  yellow,  to  pair  with  mealy,  and  vice  versa.  If  you  wish  to  breed 
splashed  or  marked  birds,  I should  recommend  you  to  nair  a fine- 
shaped lively  green  or  splashed  male  bird  with  a yellow  or  jonque  hen  • 
the  Foduce  of  this  pair  will  be  marked,  and  of  various  colors  To 
breed  lull-colored  yellow  birds  without  a 'spot  or  splash,  you  should 
procure  a fine  large  mealy  hen,  bred  from  yellow  birds,  With  which 
match  a jonque  cock  bird  ; or  a pair  of  close-feathered  yellow  birds 
large  and  strong  : these  latter  will,  from  being  both  jonque,  if  they  are 
not  of  a good  size,  dwindle  very  much,  but  from  such  matches  are 
thrown  the  fine  deep  yellow  birds.  If  you  wish  to  breed  green  Cana- 
ries, let  the  birds  you  pair  be  both  greep,  or  a green  cock  bird  with  a 
yellow  or  mealy  hen,  bred  from  green  old  ones,  from  which  I have 
known  to  be  produced  that  pleasing  variety  called  “ Cinnamon  Birds.” 

(5.)  The  proper  materials  for  Nests. 

There  are  different  materials  given  them  to  build  their  nests  with  • 
but  nothing  is  so  good  as  a little  fine  hay  and  cow’s  hair,  or  deer’s  hair’ 
which  latter  ought  to  be  well  washed  to  clean  it  from  dust,  and  then 
dried  in  the  sun  or  before  the  fire.  This  hair,  after  serving  one  nest 
may  be  washed  and  dried,  and  it  will  serve  the  remainder  Sf  the  sea- 
son, being  as  good  as  the  first  for  the  succeeding  nest. 

The  best  nest-boxes  are  those  which  are  composed  entirely  of  wicker 
or  wooden  sides  with  wire  bottoms,  so  that  the  dust,  if  any  be  left  in  the 
hair,  falls  through,  and  does  not  breed  the  red  mites  which  prey  on  the 
young  birds.  You  must  not  fail  to  let  the  paired  birds,  when  in  the 
breeding  cage,  have  red  sand  or  gravel,  which  ought  to  be  dried  before 
it  s given  them,  and  laid  pretty  thick  at  the  bottom  of  the  cage,  so  that 
if  the  cock  or  hen,  in  flying  off  the  nest,  happen  to  draw  a young  bird 
or  egg  out  after  them,  which  sometimes  occurs,  it  falls  on  the  soft 
sand,  and  thus  frequently  is  saved  a valuable  bird.  I would  recom- 

boTas^the"  y0Ur  .lrd!  are,first  Put  up,  to  give  them  only  one  nest- 
rUUtfr^?7  aPt>  wben  they  have  two,  to  carry  the  building  mate 
Who  fh  h °ne-  an{^  tben  t0  auother,  and  by  these  means  lose  time. 
Sho  ho  ve,hc;n  fts’Itbelother  nest  box  is  easily  put  in,  or  indeed  after 
she  has  hatched.  It  is  better  to  make  the  second  and  following  nest 
Qm,  as  by  so^  doing  they  are  saved  much  unnecessary  fatigue  : 


.68 


THE  CANARY  BIRD  FANCIER. 


and  if  it  does  not  please  them,  they  soon  adapt  it  to  their  wishes  or 
fancy. 

(6.)  Directions  for  Feeding. 

The  following  food  must  be  given  to  them  when  they  have  young: 
Boil  an  egg  very  hard,  and  grate  it  through  a grater,  such  as  is  used 
for  grating  horse-radish ; after  that,  take  a piece  of  stale  bread  about 
the  size  of  an  egg,  and  grate  it  through  the  grater,  after  the  egg  is 
gratea  ; then  mix  them  together  ; pass  it  through  the  grater  twice,  and 
it  will  mix  the  better.  Give  them,  mow  and  then,  for  a change,  a piece 
of  stale  bread  soaked  in  water,  with  the  crust  taken  off,  then  squeeze 
the  water  out,  add  a little  sweet  milk  to  it,  and  then  give  it  to  the  birds  ; 
also  give  them  cabbage  now  and  then  when  in  season — this  is  a fine 
thing  for  them.  This  ought  to  be  given  them  two  or  three  times  a day, 
with  chicken-weed  or  salad,  if  in  season.  Many  persons  who  com- 
mence breeding  Canaries,  without  previously  knowing  the  necessary 
management  of  them,  very  often  meet  with  such  disappointment  from 
the  number  o_f  birds  that  die,  that  they  give  it  up  in  disgust,  attributing 
fault  to  the  bird,  when  they  alone  are  to  be  blamed.  The  young  ones 
are  generally  lost  from  being  either  fed  too  much  or  too  little,  and 
without  paying  any  attention  as  to  the  food  being  proper  at  the  season 
it  is  given  them,  or  not.  For  instance,  chick-weed  or  salad,  which  in 
proper  season  are  excellent,  if  given  too  early  in  the  year,  are  abso- 
lute poison  ; that  is,  before  the  plants  are  in  that  stage  of  their  growth 
that  their  bitterness  goes  off,  and  their  cold  acrid  juices  are  dissipated 
or  exhaled  by  the  heat  of  the  sun.  Thus,  when  your  young  birds  can 
feed  themselves,  (which  you  will  observe  by  their  not  letting  the  cock 
feed  them  any  longer,  or  by  his  discontinuing  to  do  so,)  you  may  cage 
them  off  and  give  them  chopped  egg,  with  bread,  as  before  stated,  with 
the  addition  of  a little  maw  seed,  and  some  ground  or  bruised  rape 
till  they  are  seven  weeks  old ; when  they  will  be  able  to  crack  hard 
seed,  which  should,  however,  before  that  time,  be  given  them.  They 
should  then  have  a mixture  of  rape,  Canary,  yellow,  and  hemp  seeds 
mixed  together,  taking  care  that  fresh  seed  be  put  in  their  box  every 
two  days,  with  now  and  then  a few  grains  of  bruised  hemp  seed.  Some 
feed  their  birds  with  rape  alone,  thinking  they  live  longer.  I have  ob- 
served it  renders  them  so  thin,  that  they  often  die  at  the  first  illness 
that  attacks  them — and  particularly  the  later  birds  when  moulting. 
Another  evil  to  guard  against  is,  when  your  old  birds  are  put  in  a cage 
with  soft  food,  &c.,  to  breed,  they  generally  gorge  to  such  a degree  as 
to  swell  themselves  and  die.  Many  Canaries  are  killed  by  giving  them 
too  large  a quantity  of  soft  food,  as  eggs,  greens,  &c.,  which  is  not 
always  necessary  for  them.  Remember,  when  breeding,  your  , old 
birds  should  have  (besides  Canary,  rape,  and  hemp  seed)  a little  lettuce 
seed,  which  purges  and  clears  them  of  such  foul  humors  as  may  have 
generated  during  the  winter*  And,  as  the  breeding  time  is  the  most 
difficult  time  to  manage  them,  I shall  be  particular  in  my  directions  for 
their  treatment -at  that  season. 

The  hen  sits  thirteen,  but  more  frequently  fourteen  days,  although 
much  depends  on  the  state  of  the  weather,  as  in  very  fine  weather  they 


THE  CANARY  BIRD  FANCIER. 


59 


fiatch  sooner  than  in  dull  and  cold  weather;  however,  two  days  before 
she  hatches,  I generally  clean  the  perches,  fill  the  box  with  seed,  and 
the  fountain  with  water,  so  that  they  may  not  be  disturbed  for  two  or 
three  days  after  they  hatch.  The  soft  meat  must  be  given  them  three 
times  a day;  you  may  likewise  give  them  a little  seed,  chick-weed  as 
free  as  possible  from  the  large,  rank  leaves,  which  are  very  injurious. 

In  July  and  August,  they  should  have  ripe  plantain,  or  a lettuce  leaf, 
feeding  them  at  six  o’clock  in  the  morning,  at  noon,  and  again  at  five 
in  the  afternoon.  In  the  hot  months,  they  must  be  very  particularly 
attended  to  ; and  this  food  put  in  the  cage  in  the  morning,  if  any  re- 
mains, should  be  taken  away  when  next  fed,  as  the  soft  meat  in  a few 
hours  turns  sour,  the  chick-weed  also  withers,  so  that  the  old  ones,  feed- 
ing their  young  on  these  nauseous,  half-rotten  substances,  retard  their 
growth,  and  make  them  weak  and  large  bellied,  instead  of  being  strong, 
straight,  and  taper.  I also  give  them  lettuce  seed  and  plantain  seed 
mixed  in  a small  pot.  Observe  what  the  old  ones  prefer,  giving  them 
as  much  of  that  particular  seed  as  they  will  eat : for  the  less  they 
feed  the  young  ones  on  green  meat  the  better,  as  it  causes  the  surfeit 
or  swelling  before  observed.  I put  sometimes  a piece  of  stick  liquor- 
ice into  their  water  glass,  which  gives  a flavor  to  the  water,  and  acts 
as  an  alterative. 

In  hot  weather  they  should  have  clean  water  once  a day  in  pans,  to 
bathe  and  wash  in,  which  greatly  refreshes  them  ; as  well  as  in  their 
glasses,  as  they  drink  much  oftener  than  in  cold  weather. 

(7.)  Directions  to  make  Paste , to  bring  them  up  by  hand . 

When  you  wish  to  bring  up  a Canary  by  hand,  for  the  purpose  of 
rendering  him  remarkably  tame,  you  must  first  see  if  he  is  strong 
enough  to  be  taken  away  from  the  old  ones ; as  should  he  be  taken 
away  too  soon,  he  is  apt  to  pine  ; neither  must  he  be  left  too  long,  as 
in  that  case  he  is  obstinate,  sullen,  and  difficult  to  breed. 

The  bird  thus  intended  to  be  brought  up,  should  be  well  fledged  or 
feathered ; if  a mealy  bird,  eleven  days  is  the  proper  age ; if  a jonque, 
thirteen.  When  taken  from  the  hen,  he  should  be  placed  in  a warm 
box,  and  kept  in  rather  a dark  situation,  to  make  him  forget  the  old 
ones. 

This  rule  is  not  without  exception ; as  sometimes  the  hen  is  taken 
ill  in  breeding,  and  cannot  feed  her  young,  so  that  it  becomes  neces- 
sary they  should  be  taken  from  her  sooner,  and  bred  up  by  hand,  if 
fou  have  not  another  hen  under  which  you  can  put  them.  And  occa- 
sionally a hen  feeds  so  ill,  that  the  young  ones  fall  away,  and  will  die 
for  want  of  food.  When  this  is  the  case,  they  must  be  taken  from 
her,  or  they  would  soon  be  past  recovery,  from  the  effect  of  her  ne- 
glect. Frequently  the  hen  leaves  them  at  eight  days  old  to  the  care  of 
the  cock ; and  although  you  give  her  proper  things  for  her  nest,  she 
unmercifully  plucks  the  feathers  from  her  young  ones ; in  which  case 
they  must  be  taken  from  her,  or  she  will  kill  them  in  two  or  three 
days.  But  when  there  is  no  pressing  occasion  to  take  them  from 
the  old  ones,  they  should  be  suffered  to  remain  as  before  stated. 

When  they  are  taken  away,  the  following  paste  is  given  them,  which  \ 


60 


THE  CANARY  BIRD  FANCIER 


will  keep  good  fifteen  days.  In  a large  mortar,  or  on  r.n  even  table, 
you  must  bruise  with  a rolling-pin  a pint  or  quart  of  rape,  in  such 
manner  that  you  may  blow  the  chaff  away  ; to  this  bruised  seed  add 
a piece  of  bread,  reducing  them  to  powder;  mix  these  together,  and 
put  them  in  an  oak  box,  which  should  be  kept  from  the  sun.  You 
may  give  them  a teaspoonful  of  this  powder,  with  the  addition  of  a 
little  hard  yolk  of  egg  and  a few  drops  of  water.  By  these  means 
you  will  have  prepared  in  a minute  food  for  your  young  birds  with- 
out trouble.  This  powder  must  not  be  kept  longer  than  twelve  days, 
as  it  then  becomes  unfit  for  use,  the  rape  seed  turning  sour,  so  that 
when  the  water  is  put  in,  it  smells  like  mustard.  After  twenty  days, 
if  any  of  the  powder  remains,  it  may  be  given  dry  to  the  old  ones, 
and  it  will  do  them  no  harm.  I rather  prefer  giving  them  their  paste 
fresh  every  day,  as  I observe  they  thrive  better.  The  first  three  days 
I take  them  from  the  old  ones,  I give  them  part  of  a sponge  biscuit, 
reduced  to  powder  ; add  a hard  boiled  yolk  of  egg,  (or  the  white,  which 
is  better,  if  fresh,  as  it  does  not  heat  them  as  much  as  the  yolk,)  with 
a drop  or  two  of  water : make  this  up  into  a thick  paste,  as,  if  it  be 
too  liquid,  it  digests  so  quickly  as  to  be  of  little  or  no  service  to  them. 

After  your  birds  are  three  or  four  days  old,  and  begin  to  be  strong, 
add  to  the  mixture  a small  quantity  of  scalded  rape  seed,  without 
bruising  it,  as  they  are  strong  enough  to  digest  it.  I sometimes  give 
them,  too,  (chopped  very  fine,)  a sweet  almond  peeled,  and  a small 
quantity  of  chick-weed  seed.  This  latter  ought  to  be  given  them  twice 
a day  in  very  hot  weather.  If  you  attend  strictly  to  this  • mode  of 
feeding,  you  may  depend  on  your  Canaries  thriving  well,  and,  on  an 
average,  you  will  scarcely  lose  one  in  fifty. 

(8.)  How  to  treat  those  that  are  sick. 

If  any  of  the  young  ones  are  ill,  you  must  treat  them  as  follows : 
Take  a handful  of  hemp  seed,  which  first  wash  in  cold  water,  then 
bruise  it  in  a mortar,  and  put  in  water  again,  from  which  again  take 
it  and  put  it  in  a clean  piece  of  linen,  which  you  must  squeeze  very 
strongly  in  the  last  used  water,  and  this  is  termed  milk  of  hemp  seed 
it  will  strengthen  and  nourish  your  young  birds  very  much.  Re- 
member to  take  the  water  glass  away  when  you  give  your  sick  birds 
this  medicine. 

Birds  brought  up  by  hand  require  frequent  feeding ; let  them  be  at- 
tended to  every  two  hours  at  farthest.  This  regularity  and  frequency 
is  absolutely  requisite  to  procure  complete  success.  To  feed  them, 
sharpen  a small  piece  of  wood,  and  at  each  time  of  feeding  give  them 
four  or  five  mouthfuls,  or  till  they  refuse  to  open  their  mouths  volun* 
tarily  ; as,  if  too  much  gorged,  they  are  apt,  from  a want  of  sufficient 
digestive  powers,  to  become  ill,  and  to  fall  into  what  may  be  termed  a 
surfeit.  At  a month  old  you  may  cease  feeding  them  with  a stick,  as 
they  will  then  begin  to  feed  alone.  You  must  put  them  in  a cage 
without  perches,  at  first,  and  feed  them  as  before  directed,  for  about  a 
month.  There  must  be  a little  rape  and  Canary  in  the  seed  box,  or 
glass.  When  you  see  them  strong  enough,  which  will  generally  be 
about  seven  weeks  old,  take  the  soft  food  by  degrees  away  from  them, 


THE  ETIQUETTE  OF  COURTSHIP  AND  MARRIAGE.  61 

and  leave  them  only  the  rape,  yellow,  and  Canary.  It  will  be  well  to 
give  them,  now  and  then,  a little  bruised  hemp  seed,  especially  in  the 
winter,  # Many  fanciers  boast  that  the  Canaries  brought  up  by  the  old 
ones  are  the  strongest  and  best,  while  some  maintain  that  the  birds 
brought  up  by  hand  by  far  exceed  the  others  in  strength  and  force ; 
(and  the  additional  trouble  considered,  so  they  ought).  It  often  hap- 
pens that  those  brought  up  by  the  old  ones  fall  into  a consumption,  * 
owing  to  the  parent  birds  being  ill,  and  not  giving  them  half  enough 
food ; having  five  or  six  in  a nest  to  bring  up  at  a time,  they  must 
necessarily  neglect  some,  which  become  feeble  and  die.  The  cock 
and  hen  are  likewise  much  relieved  when  the  young  ones  are  taken 
away  at  ten  or  twelve  days  old  ; and  they  live  longer  than  when  they 
are  left  entirely  to  rear  them  themselves.  The  young  brought  up  br 
hand  are  more  familiar  than  the  others,  and  fewer  die  in  the  moult 
At  least,  a nest  from  each  pair  of  birds  is  gained  by  thus  rearing 
them ; and  they  may  have  four  nests  without  too  much  fatiguing  them 
during  the  breeding  season,  and  they  will  the  next  season  be  in  as 
good  a state  to  breed  as  they  were  the  first  year. 

A bird  that  breeds,  seldom  lives  longer  than  ten  years  : others,  that 
are  not  bred  from,  but  kept  merely  for  song,  have  been  known  to  attain 
the  age  of  twenty  years. 


THE  ETIQUETTE  OF  COURTSHIP  AND 
MARRIAGE. 

No  subject  in  this  work  is  more  important,  and  certainly  none  will 
be  studied  with  as  much  attention,  as  that  of  the  present  section. 
Love  is  the  universal  passion,  courtship  is  the  most  interesting  avoca- 
tion of  human  life,  and  marriage  one  of  the  great  ends  of  existence. 
As  our  wives  are  not  purchased  as  in  China,  nor  stolen  as  in  some 
parts  of  Africa,  nor  in  general  negotiated  for  by  parents,  as  in  some 
countries  in  Europe,  but  wooed  and"  won  by  polite  attentions,  the  man- 
ner in  which  a gentleman  should  behave  towards  ladies  is  a matter  of 
the  greatest  importance.  Charms,  filters,  and  talismans  are  used  no 
longer — the  only  proper  talismans  are  worth  and  accomplishments. 


How  to  win  the  favor  of  Ladies. 

To  win  the  favor  of  the  ladies,  dress  and  manner  must  never  be 
neglected.  Women  look  more  to  sense  than  to  beauty,  and  a man 
shows  his  sense,  or  his  want  of  it,  in  every  action  of  his  life.  When 
a young  man  first  finds  himself  in  the  company  of  the  other  sex,  he 
is  seldom  free  from  a degree  of  bashfulness,  which  makes  him  more 
avvkward  than  he  would  otherwise  appear,  and  he  very  often  errs  from 
real  ignorance  of  what  he  should  say  or  do.  Though  a feeling  of  re- 
spect and  kindness,  and  a desire  to  be  obliging  and  agreeable,  will 
always  be  recognized  and  appreciated,  there  are  certain  forms  very 
convenient  to  be  understood. 


62 


THE  ETIQUETTE  OF  COURTSHIP  AND  MARRIAGE. 


How  to  address  a Lady. 

We  address  a married  lady,  or  widow,  as  Madam,  or  by* name,  as 
Missis  or  Mistress  Jones,  In  answering  a question,  we  contract  the 
Madam  to  ma’am — as  “yes,  ma’am,  no  ma’am,  very  fine  day,  ma’am.” 
A single  lady,  of  a certain  age,  may  also  be  addressed  as  Madam. 

A young  lady,  if  the  eldest  of  the  family,  unmarried,  is  entitled  to 
the  sirnajne,  as  Miss  Smith,  while  her  younger  sisters  are  called  Miss 
Mary,  Miss  Julia,  &c.  The  term  “ Miss,”  used  by  itself,  is  very  inel- 
egant. 

It  is  expected,  that  gentlemen  will,  upon  every  proper  occasion,  offer 
civilities  to  ladies  of  their  acquaintance,  and  especially  to  those  for 
whom  they  have  a particular  attachment. 

A gentleman  meeting  a lady  at  an  evening  party,  is  struck  with  her 
appearance.  Ascertaining  that  she  is  not  engaged,  which  he  may  do 
from  some  acquaintance,  he  takes  some  opportunity  of  saying, 

“ Miss  Ellen,  will  you  honor  me,  by  accepting  my  escort  home,  to- 
night ?”  or, 

“ Miss  Ellen,  shall  I have  the  pleasure  of  seeing  you  home  ?”  or, 

“ Miss  Ellen,  make  me  happy  by  selecting  me  for  your  cavalier  o», 
“ Miss  Ellen,  shall  I have  the  pleasure  of  protecting  you  ?” 

The  last,  of  course,  as  the  others,  may  be  half  in  fun,  for  these  lit- 
tle matters  do  not  require  much  seriousness.  The  lady  replies,  if 
engaged, 

“ Excuse  me,  Sir,  I am  already  provided  for  or,  pleasantly, 

“ How  unfortunate  ! If  you  had  been  five  minutes  earlier,  I migh* 
have  availed  myself  of  your  services ;’  or,  if  disengaged, 

“ Thank  you,  Sir;  I shall  be  obliged  for  your  attention  or, 

“ With  pleasure,  Sir,  if  my  company  will  pay  you  for  your  trouble 
or,  any  other  pleasant  way  of  saying  that  she  accepts,  and  is  grateful 
for  the  attention  proffered  to  her. 

The  preliminaries  settled,  which  should  be  as  early  as  possible,  his 
attention  should  be  public.  He  should  assist  her  in  putting  on  her 
cloak  and  shawl,  and  offer  her  his  arm  before  leaving  the  room. 

Preliminaries  of  Courtship. 

There  is  no  reason  why  the  passion  of  love  should  be  wrapped  up 
in  mystery.  It  wTould  prevent  much  and  complicated  misery  in  the 
world,  if  all  young  persons  understood  it  truly. 

According  to  the  usages  of  society,  it  is  the  custom  for  the  man  to 
propose  marriage,  and  for  the  female  to  refuse  or  accept  the  offer,  as 
she  may  think  fit.  There  ought  to  be  a perfect  freedom  of  the  will  in 
both  parties. 

When  a young  man  admires  a lady,  and  thinks  her  society  neces- 
sary to  his  happiness,  it  is  proper,  before  committing  himself,  or  indu- 
cing the  object  of  his  admiration  to  do  so,  to  apply  to  her  parents  or 
guardians  for  permission  to  address  her ; this  is  a becoming  mark  of  re- 
spect, and  the  circumstances  must  be  very  peculiar,  which  would  jus- 
tify a deviation  from  this  course. 

Everything  secret  and  unacknowledged  is  to  be  avoided,  as  the  rep* 


THE  ETIQUETTE  OF  COURTSHIP  AND  MARRIAGE. 


63 


utation  of  a clandestine  intercourse  is  always  more  or  less  injurious 
through  life.  The  romance  evaporates,  but  the  memory  of  indiscre- 
tion survives. 

Young  men  frequently  amuse  themselves  by  playing  with  the  feel- 
ings of  young  women.  They  visit  them  often,  they  walk  with  them, 
they  pay  them  divers  attentions,  and  after  giving  them  an  idea  that 
they  are  attached  to  them,  they  either  leave  them,  or,  what  is  worse, 
never  come  to  an  explanation  of  their  sentiments.  This  is  to  act  the 
character  of  a dangler , a character  truly  dastardly  and  infamous. 

How  to  Commence  a Courtship. 

A gentleman  having  met  a lady  at  social  parties,  danced  with  her  at 
balls,  accompanied  her  to  and  from  church,  may  desire  to  become  more 
intimately  acquainted.  In  short,  you  wish  to  commence  a formal 
courtship.  This  is  a case  for  palpitations,  but  forget  not  that  44  faint 
heart  never  won  fair  lady.”  What  will  you  do  ? Why,  taking  some 
good  opportunity,  you  will  say, 

“Miss  Wilson,  since  I became  acquainted  with  you,  I have  been 
every  day  more  pleased  with  your  society,  and  I hope  you  will  allow 
me  to  enjoy  more  of  it — if  you  are  not  otherwise  engaged,  will  you 
permit  me  to  visit  you  on  Sunday  evening  ?” 

The  lady  will  blush,  no  doubt — she  may  tremble  a little,  but  if  your 
proposition  is  acceptable  to  her,  she  may  say, 

“I  am  grateful  for  your  good  opinion,  and  shall  be  happy  to  see  you.” 
Or  if  her  friends  have  not  been  consulted,  as  they  usually  are  be- 
fore matters  proceed  so  far,  she  may  say : 

44  I am  sensible  of  your  kindness,  Sir ; but  I cannot  consent  to  a 
private  interview,  without  consulting  my  family.” 

Or  she  may  refuse  altogether,  and  in  such  a case,  should  do  so  with 
every  regard  to  the  feelings  of  the  gentleman,  and,  if  engaged,  should 
say  frankly  : 

44 1 shall  be  happy  to  see  you  at  all  times  as  a friend,  but  1 am  not  at 
liberty  to  grant  a private  interview.” 

As,  in  all  these  affairs,  the  lady  is  the  respondent,  there  is  little  ne- 
cessity for  any  directions  in  regard  to  her  conduct,  as  a 44  Yes”  ever 
so  softly  whispered,  is  a sufficient  affirmative,  and  as  her  kindness  of 
heart  will  induce  her  to  soften  as  much  as  possible  her  44  No.” 

To  tell  a lady  who  has  granted  the  preliminary  favors,  that  you 
love  her  better  than  life,  and  to  ask  her  to  name  the  happy  day,  are 
matters  of  nerve,  rather  than  form,  and  require  no  teaching. 

Love  Letters. 

A gentleman  is  struck  with  the  appearance  of  a lady,  and  is  desirous 
of  her  acquaintance,  but  there  are  no  means  within  his  reach  of  ob- 
taining an  introduction,  and  he  has  no  friends  who  are  acquainted  with 
herself  or  her  family.  In  this  dilemma  there  is  no  alternative  but  a 

letter. 

The--e  is,  besides,  a delicacy,  a timidity,  and  nervousness  in  love, 
which  makes  many  men  desire  some  mode  of  communication  rather 
than  the  speech,  which,  in  such  cases,  too  often  fails  them.  In  short, 


A 


£4  THE  ETIQUETTE  OF  COURTSHIP  AND  MARRIAGE. 

there  are  reasons  enough  for  writing — but  when  the  enamored  youtn 
Has  set  about  penning  a letter  to  the  object  of  his  passion,  how  diffi- 
cult does  he  find  it ! How  many  sheets  of  paper  does  he  spoil ! How 
many  efforts  does  he  make  before  he  succeeds  in  writing  one  to  suit 
him  ! 

It  may  be  doubted  whether  as  many  reams  of  paper  have  ever  been 
used  in  writing  letters  upon  all  other  subjects,  as  have  been  consumed 
upon  epistles  of  love  ; ana  there  is  probably  no  man  living  who  has 
not  at  some  time  written,  or  desired  to  write,  some  missive  which 
might  explain  his  passion  to  the  amiable  being  of  whom  he  was  enam- 
ored ; and  it  has  been  the  same,  so  far  as  can  be  judged,  in  all  the 
generations  of  the  world. 

Affairs  of  the  heart — the  delicate  and  interesting  preliminaries  of 
marriage,  are  oftener  settled  by  the  pen  than  in  any  other  manner. 

To  write  the  words  legibly,  to  spell  them  correctly,  to  point  them 
properly,  to  begin  every  sentence  and  every  proper  name  with  a cap- 
ital letter,  every  one  is  supposed  to  learn  at  school. 

To  give  examples  of  letters  would  be  useless  and  absurd,  as  each 
particular  case  must  necessarily  require  a widely  different  epistle,  and 
the  judgment  and  feelings  of  the  party  writing  must  be  left  to  control 
both  the  style  and  substance  of  the  letter. 

For  a love  letter,  good  paper  is  indispensable.  When  it  can  be  pro- 
cured, that  of  a costly  quality,  gold-edged,  perfumed,  or  ornamented  in 
the  French  style,  may  be  properly  used.  The  letter  should  be  care- 
fully enveloped,  and  nicely  sealed  with  a fancy  wafer — not  a common 
one,  of  course,  where  any  other  can  be  had ; or,  what  is  better,  plain 
or  fancy  sealing  wax.  As  all  persons  are  more  or  less  governed  by 
first  impressions  and  externals,  the  whole  affair  should  be  as  neat  and 
elegant  as  possible. 

Popping  the  Question . 

There  is  nothing  more  appalling  to  a modest  and  sensitive  young 
man  than  asking  the  girl  he  loves  to  marry  him ; and  there  are  few 
who  do  not  find  their  moral  courage  tasked  to  the  utmost.  Many  a 
man  who  would  lead  a forlorn  hope,  mount  a breach,  and  “ seek  ihe 
bubble  ruputation  e’en  in  the  cannon’s  mouth,5’  trembles  at  the  idea  of 
asking  a woman  the  question  which  is  to  decide  his  fate.  Ladies  may 
congratulate  themselves  that  nature  and  custom  have  made  them  the 
responding  party. 

In  a matter  which  men  have  always  found  so  terrible,  yet  which,  in 
one  way  or  other,  they  have  always  contrived  in  some  awkward  way 
to  accomplish,  it  is  not  easy  to  give  instructions  suited  to  every  emer- 
gency. 

A man  naturally  conforms  to  the  disposition  of  the  woman  he  ad- 
mires. If  she  be  serious,  he  will  approach  the  awful  subject  with 
due  solemnity — if  gay  and  lively,  he  will  make  it  an  excellent  joke — 
if  softly  sentimental,  he  must  woo  her  in  a strain  of  high-wrought 
romance — if  severely  practical,  he  relies  upon  straight-forward  com- 
mon sense. 

There  is  one  maxim  of  universal  application — Never  lose  an  oppor 


THE  ETIQUETTE  OF  COURTSHIP  AND  MARRIAGE. 


65 


tunity.  What  can  a woman  think  of  a lover  who  neglects  one  ? 
Women  cannot  make  direct  advances,  but  they  use  infinite  tact  ih 
giving  men  occasions  to  make  them.  In  every  case,  it  is  fair  to  pre- 
sume that  when  a woman  gives  a man  an  opportunity,  she  expects  him 
to  improve  it ; and  though  he  may  tremble,  and  feel  his  pulses  throb- 
bing and  tingling  through  every  limb ; though  his  heart  is  filling  up 
his  throat,  and  his  tongue  cleaves  to  the  roof  of  his  mouth,  yet  the 
awful  question  must  be  asked — the  fearful  task  accomplished. 

In  the  country,  the  lover  is  taking  a romantic  walk  by  moonlight, 
with  the  lady  of  his  love — talks  of  the  beauty  of  the  scenery,  the  har- 
mony of  nature,  and  exclaims,  44  Ah!  Julia,  how  happy  would  exist- 
ence prove,  if  I always  had  such  a companion  !” 

She  sighs,  and  leans  more  fondly  on  the  arm  that  tremblingly  sup- 
ports her. 

44  My  dearest  Julia,  be  mine  forever  !” 

This  is  a settler,  and  the  answer,  ever  so  inaudible,  44  makes  or 
undoes  him  quite.” 

44  Take  pity  on  a forlorn  bachelor,”  says  another,  in  a manner  which 
may  be  either  jest  or  earnest, <4  marry  me  at  once , and  put  me  out  of 
my  misery.” 

44  With  all  my  heart,  whenever  you  are  ready,”  replies  the  laughing 
fair.  A joke  carried  thus  far  is  easily  made  earnest. 

A point  is  often  carried  by  taking  a thing  for  granted.  A gentle- 
man who  has  been  paying  attentions  to  a lady,  says, 44  Well,  Mary, 
when  is  the  happy  day  ?”  44  What  day,  pray  ?”  she  asks,  with  a con- 

scious blush. 

44  Why,  everybody  knows  that  we  are  going  to  get  married,  and  it 
might  as  well  be  one  time  as  another  ; so,  when  shall  it  be  ?” 

Cornered  in  this  fashion,  there  is  no  retreat. 

44  Jane,  I love  you!  Will  you  marry  me  ?”  would  be  somewhat 
abrupt,  and  a simple,  frankly  given, 44  Yes  !”  would  be  short  and  sweet, 
for  an  answer. 

44  Ellen,  one  word  from  you  would  make  me  the  happiest  man  in 
the  universe  1” 

44 1 should  be  cruel  not  to  speak  it,  then,  unless  it  is  a very  hard  one.” 

44  It  is  a word  of  three  letters,  and  answers  the  question,  Will  you 
have  me  ?” 

The  lady,  of  course,  says  Yes,  unless  she  happen  to  prefer  a word 
of  only  two  letters,  and  answers  No. 

And  so  this  interesting  and  terrible  process  in  practice,  simple  as  it 
is  in  theory,  is  varied  in  a hundred  ways,  according  to  circumstances 
and  the  various  dispositions. 

One  timid  gentleman  asks, 44  Have  you  any  objection  to  change  your 
name  ?”  and  follows  this  up  with  another,  which  clenches  its  signifi- 
cance, 44  How  would  mine  suit  you  ?” 

Another  asks,  44  Will  you  tell  me  what  I most  wish  to  know  ?” 

44  Yes,  if  I can.” 

44  The  happy  day  when  we  shall  be  married  ?” 

Another  says, 44  My  Eliza,  we  must  do  what  all  the  world  evidently 
expects  we  shall.” 


68  7. HE  ETIQUETTE  OF  COURTSHIP  AND  MARRIAGE. 

“ All  the  world  is  very  impertinent.” 

“ I know  it — but  it  can’t  be  helped.  When  shall  I tell  the  parson 
to  be  ready  ?” 

As  a general  rule,  a gentleman  never  need  be  refused.  Every 
woman,  except  a heartless  coquette,  finds  the  means  of  discouraging  a 
man  whom  she  does  not  intend  to  have,  before  the  matter  comes  to  the 
point  of  a declaration. 

Marriage  Ceremony . 

Weddings  are  everywhere  accompanied  with  some  degree  of  cere 
mony,  and  are  usually  considered  as  occasions  of  festivity. 

; The  preliminaries  having  been  arranged  by  the  contracting  parties 
and  the  lady  having  named  the  happy  day,  preparations  are  made  for 
the  wedding.  Those  who  belong  to  the  Episcopal  and  Roman  Catho- 
lic churches  are  usually  married  at  church,  in  the  morning,  and  by  the 
prescribed  forms.  In  some  cases  there  is  a wedding  party  given  in 
the  evening  ; in  others,  the  happy  couple  make  a short  wedding  tour, 
and  issue  cards  of  invitation  on  their  return. 

Among  other  denominations,  the  parties  are  married  by  a clergyman 
or  magistrate  ; and  in  the  State  of  New  York,  marriage  being  consid- 
ered by  the  law  only  a civil  contract,  it  may  ,be  witnessed  by  any 
person. 

Where  a wedding  is  celebrated  in  the  usual  forms,  cards  of  invita- 
tion are  issued,  at  least  a week  beforehand.  The  hour  selected  is 
usually  eight  o’clock,  P.  M.  Wedding  cake,  wines,  and  other  refresh- 
ments, are  provided  by  the  bride  and  her  friends  for  the  occasion.  The 
bride  is  usually  dressed  in  pure  white — she  wears  a white  veil,  and 
her  head  is  crowned  with  a wreath  of  white  flowers,  usually  artificial ; 
and  orange  blossoms  are  preferred.  She  should  wear  no  ornaments 
but  such  as  her  intended  husband  or  her  father  may  present  her  for  the 
occasion — certainly  no  gift,  if  any  such  were  retained,  of  any  former 
sweetheart. 

The  bridemaid  or  bridemaids,  if  there  be  two,  are  generally  younger 
than  the  bride,  and  should  also  be  dressed  in  white,  but  more  simply. 
The  bridegroom  must  be  in  full  dress — that  is,  he  must  wear  a dress 
coat,  which,  if  he  pleases,  may  be  faced  with  white  satin ; a white 
vest,  black  pantaloons,  and  dress  boots  or  pumps,  with  black  silk  stock- 
ings, and  white  kid  gloves,  and  a white  cravat.  The  bridegroom  is 
attended  by  one  or  two  groomsmen,  who  should  be  dressed  in  a simi- 
lar manner.  It  is  the  duty  of  the  bridemaids  to  assist  in  dressing  the 
bride,  and  making  the  necessary  preparations  for  the  entertainment  of 
the  guests.  The  chief  groomsman  engages  the  clergyman  or  magis- 
trate, and  upon  his  arrival,  introduces  him  to  the  bride  and  bridegroom, 
and  the  friends  of  the  parties. 

The  invited  guests,  upon  their  arrival,  are  received  as  at  other  par- 
ties, and  after  visiting  the  dressing  rooms,  and  arranging  their  toilets, 
they  proceed  to  the  room  where  the  ceremony  is  to  be  performed.  In 
some  cases  the  marriage  is  performed  before  the  arrival  of  the  guests. 

When  the  hour  for  the  ceremony  has  arrived,  and  all  things  are 
( oady,  the  wedding  part}',  consisting  of  the  happy  couple,  with  the 


THE  El IQUETTE  OF  COURTSHIP  AND  MARRIAGE. 


67 


bridemaids  and  groomsmen,  walk  into  the  room  arm  in  arm ; the 
groomsmen  each  attending  the  bridemaids,  preceding  the  bride  and 
bridegroom,  and  take  their  position  at  the  head  of  the  room,  which  is 
usually  the  end  farthest  from  the  entrance  ; the  bride  standing  facing 
the  assembly  on  the  right  of  the  bridegroom — the  bridemaids  taking 
their  position  at  her  right,  and  the  groomsmen  at  the  left  of  the  bride- 
groom. The  principal  groomsman  now  formally  introduces  the  cler- 
gyman or  magistrate  to  the  bride  and  bridegroom,  and  he  proceeds  to 
perfolm  the  marriage  ceremony:  if  a ring  is  to  be  used,  the  bride- 
groom procures  a plain  gold  one  previously,  taking  some  means  to 
have  it  of  the  proper  size. 

As  soon  as  the  ceremony  is  over,  and  the  bridegroom  has  kissed  the 
bride,  the  clergyman  or  magistrate  shakes  hands  with  the  bride,  sa- 
luting her  by  her  newly  acquired  name,  as  Mrs. , and  wishes 

them  joy,  prosperity,  and  happiness:  the  groomsmen  and  bridemaids 
then  do  the  same  ; and  then  the  principal  groomsman  brings  to  them 
the  other  persons  in  the  room,  commencing  with  the  parents  and  rela- 
tives of  the  parties,  the  bride’s  relatives  having  precedence,  and  ladies 
being  accompanied  by  gentlemen.  In  this  manner  all  present  are  ex- 
pected to  make  their  salutations  and  congratulations,  first  to  the  newly 
married  couple,  and  then  to  their  parents  and  friends.  And  where  the 
weddigg  ceremony  has  been  performed  before  the  arrival  of  the  guests, 
they  are  received  near  the  door,  having,  of  course,  first  visited  the 
dressing  rooms,  and  introduced  in  the  same  manner.  The  groomsman 
takes  occasion,  before  the  clergyman  or  magistrate  leaves,  to  privately 
thank  him  for  his  attendance,  at  the  same  time  placing  in  his  hand  the 
marriage  fee,  which  is  wrapped  up  nicely  in  paper,  and  if  more  than 
the  legal  sum,  as  is  frequently  the  case  where  the  parties  are  wealthy, 
it  is  usually  in  gold.  The  bridegroom,  of  course,  takes  an  early  op- 
portunity to  reimburse  his  groomsman  for  necessary  expenses. 

When  the  presentations  and  congratulations  are  over,  that  is,  when 
the  guests  have  arrived,  the  bridal  party,  which  till  now  has  kept  its 
position,  mingles  with  the  rest  of  the  company,  and  joins  in  the  danc- 
ing or  other  amusements. 

The  Bridal  Chamber. 

The  festivities  should  not  be  kept  up  too  late  ; and  at  the  hour  of 
retiring,  the  bride  is  to  be  conducted  to  the  bridal  chamber  by  the 
bridemaids,  who  assist  her  in  her  night  toilet.  The  bridegroom  upon 
receiving  notice  will  retire,  without  farther  attendance  or  ceremony. 

The  practice  of  kissing  the  bride  is  not  so  common  as  formerly,  and 
in  regard  to  this,  the  taste  of  the  bridegroom  may  be  consulted,  as  the 
rest  of  the  company  follow  the  example  of  the  groomsman  ; but  the 
parents  and  very  near  relatives  of  the  parties,  of  course  act  as  affec- 
tion prompts  them. 

The  chamber  frolics,  such  as  the  whole  company  visiting  the  bride 
and  bridegroom  after  they  are  in  bed,  which  was  done  some  years  ago. 
even  at  the  marriage  of  monarchs,  and  the  custom  of  throwing  the 
stocking,  etc.,  are  almost  universally  dispensed  with. 


THE  ETI OF  COURTSHIP  ANU  MARRIAGE. 


m 


After  Marriage. 

After  marriage  tlSe  bridal  party  usually  travel  for  a week  or  two. 
upon  their  return,  it  is  customary  for  the  bride  to  be  44  at  home”  for  a 
few  days  to  receive  visits.  The  first  four  weeks  after  marriage  con- 
stitute the  honeymoon. 

You  need  not  retain  the  whole  of  your  previous  acquaintance  r 
those  only  to  whom  you  send  cards  are,  after  marriage,  considered  m 
the  circle  of  your  visiting  acquaintance.  The  parents  or  friends  of 
the  bride  usually  send  the  cards  to  her  connexion ; the  bridegroom 
selects  those  persons  among  his  former  associates  whom  he  wishes  to 
retain  as  such.  The  cards  are  sometimes  united  by  a silken  cord,  or 
white  ribbon,  to  distinguish  those  of  a^newly  married  pair  from  ordi- 
nary visitors  ; but  it  is  doubtful  whether  it  be  in  good  taste. 

A married  lady  may  leave  her  own  or  her  husband’s  card  in  return- 
ing a visit ; the  latter  only  would  be  adored  as  a resource  in  the  event 
of  her  not  having  her  own  with  her. 

A lady  will  not  say,  “ My  husband,”  except  among  intimates ; in 
every  other  case  she  should  address  him  by  his  Christian  name,  calling 
him  Mr.  It  is  equally  good  ton,  when  alore  with  him,  to  designate 
him  by  his  Christian  name. 

Cobbett;  in  his  44  Advice  to  a Husband,”  says, 44 1 never  could  see 
the  sense  of  its  being  a piece  of  etiquette,  a sort  of  mark  of  good 
breeding , to  make  it  a rule  that  man  and  wife  are  not  to  sit  side  by 
side  in  a mixed  company ; that  if  a party  walk  out,  the  wife  is  to  give 
her  arm  to  some  other  than  her  husband ; that  if  there  be  any  other 
hand  near,  his  is  not  to  help  to  a seat  or  into  a carriage.  I never  could 
see  the  sense  of  this ; but  I have  always  seen  the  nc  ^sense  of  it  plainly 
enough  ; it  is,  in  short,  a piece  of  false  refinement : \\  being  interpreted, 
means  that  so  free  are  the  parties  from  a liability  to  suspicion,  that 
each  man  can  safely  trust  his  wife  with  another  man,  and  each 
woman  her  husband  with  another  woman.  But  this  piece  of  false 
refinement,  like  all  others,  overshoots  its  mark ; it  says  too  much  ; for 
it  says  that  the  parties  have  lewd  thoughts  in  their  minds. ” 

This  is  the  sensible  view  taken  of  part  of  the  etiquette  f marriage, 
by  a man  of  extreme  practical  sense. 

Acquaintances  after  Marriage. 

When  a man  marries,  it  is  understood  that  all  former  acquaintance- 
ship ends , unless  he  intimate  a desire  to  renew  it,  by  sending  you  his 
own  and  his  wife’s  card,  if  near,  or  by  letter,  if  distant,  f 7 this  be 
neglected,  be  sure  no  further  intercourse  is  desired. 

In  the  first  place — A bachelor  is  seldom  very  particular  in  the  choice 
of  his  companions.  So  long  as  he  is  amused,  he  will  associate  freely 
enough  with  those  whose  morals  and  habits  would  point  then  out  as 
highly  dangerous  persons  to  introduce  into  the  sanctity  of  domestic  life. 

Secondly — A married  man  has  the  tastes  of  another  to  consult ; and 
the  friend  of  the  husband  may  not  be  equally  acceptable  to  the  wife. 

Besides — Newly- married  people  may  wish  to  limit  the  circle  of  their 
friends,  from  praiseworthy  motives  of  economy.  When  a man  first- 


HYDROPATHY,  JR  THE  WATER  JURE.  69 

'4  sets  up ” in  the  world,  the  burden  of  an  extensive  and  indiscriminate 
acquaintance  may  be  felt  in  various  ways.  Many  have  had  cause  to 
regret  the  weakness  of  mind  which  allowed  them  to  plunge  into  a 
vortex  of  gayety  and  expense  they  could  ill  afford,  from  which  they 
have  found  it  difficult  to  extricate  themselves,  and  the  effects  of  which 
have  proved  a_serious  evil  to  them  in  after-life. 

When  a man  is  about  to  be  married,  he  usually  gives  a dinner  to 
his  bachelor  friends ; which  is  understood  to  be  their  conge,  unless  he 
choose  to  renew  their  acquaintance. 


HYDROPATHY,  OR  THE  WATER  CURE. 

Bathing  has  been  practised,  both  as  a preventive  and  a curative  of 
disease,  from  the  earliest  ages  to  the  present  day. 

It  is  a vulgar  error,  that  the  practice  of  cold  bathing,  when  the 
body  is  bedewed  with  perspiration,  is  dangerous,  and  that  numbers  of 
persons,  every  summer,  lose  their  lives  by  this  means.  But  the  true 
fact  is,  that  the  danger  in  such  cases  is  owing  to  the  fatigue  present, 
and  not  to  perspiration  checked.  The  ancient  Romans  were  in  the 
habit  of  often  passing  from  their  sudatorium,  or  sweating,  to  the  cold 
bath.  The  Russians,  for  centuries,  have  been  accustomed  to  go,  while 
in  a state  of  reeking  sweat,  to  a cold  immersion,  or  to  roll  in  the  snow. 
So,  also,  in  this  way,  the  Indians  of  our  own  country  accomplish,  in 
a multitude  of  cases  of  rheumatism,  fevers,  etc.,  what  could  not  be 
with  any  amount  of  drugs,  and  the  lancet  besides. 

The  Macedonians  considered  warm  water  to  be  enervating.  Their 
women,  after  accouchement,  were  washed  in  cold  water. 

The  Spartans  bathed  their  children,  as  soon  as  born,  in  cold  water ; 
and  the  men  of  Sparta,  both  old  and  young,  bathed  at  all  seasons  of 
the  year,  to  harden  their  flesh,  and  strengthen  their  bodies. 

Among  the  Araucanian  Indians  of  South  America,  a mother,  imme- 
diately after  childbirth,  takes  her  child,  and  going  down  to  the  nearest 
stream  of  water,  washes  herself  and  it,  and  returns  to  the  usual  labcrs 
of  her  station. 

A remedy  that  has  proved  so  potent  in  untrained  and  unskilled  hands, 
affords  a legitimate  prospect  of  much  greater  success  when  wielded  by 
men  of  cultivated  minds,  and  devoted  to  the  practice  of  the  healing  art. 

So  far  as  great  names  give  a sanction  to  a system,  the  Water  Cure 
is  not  without  some  of  the  most  eminent  in  science,  and  the  most  dis- 
tinguished in  practice.  Not  to  mention  a host  of  physicians  and  profes 
sors  on  the  continent  of  Europe,  with  the  illustrious  Liebig  at  their  head, 
it  may  be  enough  to  cite  some  names  of  well-deserved  note  in  England 
— Sir  Charles  Scudamore,  Drs.  Wilson,  Gully,  Johnson,  Adair,  Craw- 
ford, Hume,  Weatherhead,  Freeman,  Heathcote,  Swethurst,  Mr.  Her- 
bert Mayo,  Mr.  Courtney,  Mr.  Abdy,  and  many  others.  The  system 
is  rapidly  gaining  ground  among  intelligent  and  scientific  men  in  our 
own  country ; and  the  French,  Prussian,  and  Austrian  Governments 
have  already  given  their  public  approval  of  its  practice,  the  reports  of 


70  HYDROPATHY,  OR  THE  WATER  CURE. 

their  respective  commissions  sent  to  the  establishment  of  Pmsrioitz  at 
Grafenberg  to  investigate  its  merits,  having  given  a favorable  verdict. 


The  Process  of  the  Water  Cure. 

Having  premised  with  these  general  observations,  we  shall  proceed 
to  explain  the  various  modes  of  administering  the  remedy,  with  the 
diseases  for  which  each  mode  is  peculiarly  applicable. 

Sweating. 

This  is  produced  as  follows  : The  patient  is  stripped  and  laid  upon 
a thick  woolen  blanket  extended  on  the  bed.  An  attendant  wraps  first 
the  one  side  of  the  blanket  round  the  body  of  the  patient,  drawing  it 
close  in  every  direction  : grasping  now  firmly  with  the  one  hand  the 
portion  in  which  the  patient  is  wrapped,  he  draws  with  the  other  hand 
the  blanket  round  the  body,  and  tucks  this  part  also  under  him. 

The  coverings  must  be  in  close  contact  with  the  body,  particularly 
at  the  neck,  so  that  the  heat  emitted  may  be  retained,  for  it  is  the  ex- 
cess of  caloric  thus  confined  that  induces  sweating.  Before  the  out- 
break of  perspiration,  slight  excitement  of  the  vessels  generally  passes 
off  spontaneously  ; but  where  it  does  not,  a cooling  bandage  must  be 
laid  on  the  head  of  the  patient,  at  the  same  time  administering  cold 
water  internally.  All  parts  affected  with  swellings  are  to  be  wrap- 
ped up  in  warming  applications  before  envelopment,  in  order  to  allay 
the  pain,  which  is  usually  more  violent  previous  to  perspiration.  As 
persons  thus  enveloped  are  helpless,  a servant  should  always  be  in  at- 
tendance to  open  the  windows  as  soon  as  sweating  ensues,  and  to  give 
as  much  cold  water  as  is  necessary  to  promote  perspiration,  every  ten 
or  fifteen  minutes. 

The  result  of  this  mode  of  treatment  is  pretty  certain. 

The  best  time  for  sweating  in  chronic  cases  is  in  the  early  hours  of 
the  morning,  from  four  to  five  o’clock.  A repetition  of  the  process 
the  same  day  is  only  admissible  as  an  exception.  The  ordinary  dura- 
tion in  chronic  cases  is  from  half  an  hour  to  three  hours  daily  ; but 
moderate  perspiration  may  be  encouraged  for  a longer  time  in  acute 
diseases.  i 

When  the  patient  has  remained  in  a state  of  perspiration  long 
enough,  the  woolen  covering  should  be  loosened  about  his  feet  and 
legs,  to  enable  him  to  walk.  If  not  able,  he  is  to  be  carried  to  the 
bath.  No  danger  is  to  be  dreaded  from  the  transition  from  heat  to 
cold,  if  everything  is  properly  done. 

After  the  bath,  patients  who  can,  should  walk,  or  take  other  exer- 
cise, in  fresh  air.  Those  who  cannot,  must  be  rubbed  after  the  bath 
for  some  time,  first  with  wet  cloths  and  then  dry. 

This  is  a powerful  part  of  the  treatment,  and  must  be  resorted  to 
with  prudence;  Priessnitz  does  not  now  use  it  as  often  as  formerly. 

Wet  Sheet. 

This  is  the  great  bug-bear  of  the  treatment.  The  wet  sheet  is  laid 
upon  one  or  more  blankets,  the  patient  lays  himself  at  full  length  upon 


HYDROFATHY,  OR  THE  WATER  CURE. 


71 


the  former,  whereupon  it  is  folded  round  him,  so  as  to  rome  in  close 
contact  with  every  portion  of  the  body.  He  is  then  enveloped  in  the 
blanket  and  bed  covering. 

The  wet  sheets  are  of  remarkable  utility  in  all  febrile  diseases.  In 
acute  fevers,  they  must  be  changed  according  to  the  degree  of  heat, 
every  quarter  or  half  hour,  until  the  dry,  hot  skin,  becomes  softer,  and 
more  prone  to  sweating.  When  this  symptom  is  observed,  the  renewal 
of  the  wet  cloths  may  be  delayed  till  perspiration  actually  ensues. 
The  patient  must  then  remain  for  several  hours  in  this  state,  until 
uneasy  sensations  render  it  necesary  to  extricate  him ; but  it  is  more 
advisable  to  keep  him  in  the  loosened  envelopment  until  the  sweating 
ceases  spontaneously,  when  a tepid  ablution,  or  half  bath,  should  fol- 
low. In  acute  eruptions  of  the  skin,  measles,  scarlatina,  small  pox, 
&c.,  the  wet  sheets  are  not  less  serviceable,  than  when  the  eruption 
cannot  make  its  way  to  the  surface  in  consequence  of  the  dry  state 
and  heat  of  the  skin,  and  of  the  violence  of  the  fever ; or  where  the 
rash  has  receded  suddenly,  owing  to  other  disturbances.  The  wet 
sheets  followed  by  tepid  ablutions  cannot  be  sufficiently  recommended 
in  many  diseases  of  children. 

In  using  the  envelopment,  we  generally  raise  the  temperature  of  the 
patient,  and  occasionally  allow  him  to  perspire,  according  to  the  cir- 
cumstances of  the  case.  Determination  to  the  head  during  the  pro- 
cess must  be  removed  by  cold  applications  to  that  part.  If  the  feet 
remain  cold  for  a long  time  in  the  wet  cloths,  and  show  no  disposition 
to  become  warm,  they  are  to  be  extricated  and  wrapped  in  the  dry 
blanket  only. 

The  wet  sheet  produces  two  diametrically  opposite  effects , according 
as  it  is  used.  If  it  be  changed  frequently,  as  fast  as  the  patient  be- 
comes warm,  as,  for  instance,  in  cases  of  fever,  almost  any  amount  of 
heat  may  be  abstracted  slowly  and  gradually  from  the  body.  But  if 
the  patient  remain  half  an  hour,  the  most  delicious  sensation  of  warmth 
and  a gentle  perspiration  are  produced ; while  pains  and  uneasiness 
are  removed. 

Cooling  Bandages . 

Bandages  are  made  to  produce  the  same  effect  upon  any  part  of  the 
oody,  as  the  wet  sheet  upon  the  whole  body.  As  cooling  applications, 
they  should  be  applied  of  a size  suited  to  the  part  inflamed,  folded  from 
three  or  four  to  eight  times,  dipped  in  very  cold  water,  and  are  to  be 
renewed  from  every  three  or  four  to  ten  minutes,  according  to  the  ne- 
cessities of  the  case. 

Warming , or  Stimulating  Bandages. 

These  are  applied  by  folding  linen  two  or  three  times,  and  dipping 
them  in  cold  water,  or  they  may  be  made  slightly  tepid ; they  should 
be  well  pressed  or  wrung  out,  and  are  not  to  be  changed  until  they 
begin  to  dry.  They  must  be  well  adapted  to  the  part,  and  also  well 
secured  from  the  action  of  the  air  by  a dry  bandage,  which  is  better  to 
be  a non-conductor  of  heat,  so  that  the  part  may  be  raised  in  tempera- 
ture. The  combined  action  of  heat  and  moisture  thus  produced  is 


72 


HYDROPATHY,  ON  THE  WATER  CURE. 


highly  beneficial  in  a great,  variety  of  indurations,  swellings,  tumors, 
&c.  In  the  water  cure,  they  are  also  much  used  in  derangements  of 
the  digestive  organs,  affections  of  the  abdomen,  diseases  of  the  liver,  &c. 

For  the  abdomen,  a convenient  form  is  made  by  folding  and  sewing 
together  two  or  three  thicknesses  of  linen,  of  sufficient  length  to  pass 
round  the  body  two  or  more  times,  the  width  varying  according  to  the 
size  of  the  person ; one  end  is  wet  and  wrung  out,  enough  in  length 
to  cover  the  abdomen,  or  to  pass  round  the  body  if  desirable,  and  then 
applied  as  tightly  as  comfortable — and  the  dry  folds  over  in  the  same 
manner,  the  whole  secured  by  tapes  attached  for  the  purpose.  There 
should  always  be  enough  dry  cloths  to  prevent  a permanent  chill. 

Rubbing  Wet  Sheet. 

A coarse  linen  sheet,  suitable  for  holding  considerable  water,  and 
for  friction,  is  here  used.  It  may  be  allowed  even  dripping.  The  pa- 
tient standing  ready,  it. is  to  be  thrown  over  the  head  or  closely  about 
the  neck,  so  as  to  create  a slight  shock,  and  immediately  very  active 
friction  is  to  be  used  by  the  assistant  behind,  and  the  patient,  if  able 
or  another  assistant,  before.  This  should  be  continued  from  one  to 
five  minutes,  when  the  skin  will  have  become  reddened  and  warm. 
This  must  be  followed  briskly  by  a coarse  dry  sheet  or  dry  cloths,  until 
the  surface  is  perfectly  dry  and  in  a complete  glow.  The  patient  is 
then  immediately  dressed  for  exercise,  or  for  bed,  as  the  case  may  be. 
The  temperature  of  the  water  used  should  correspond  with  the  strength 
of  the  patient.  Those  who  are  so  feeble  as  to  render  it  necessary  to 
remain  in  bed,  can  be  often  much  benefited  by  a judicious  rubbing 
while  in  bed.  This  is  a highly  useful  application,  and,  if  judiciously 
made,  will  produce  nearly  all  the  good  effects  of  a bath,  and  will  often 
be  found  much  more  convenient  of  application. 

Ablutions. 

These  may  be  performed  in  the  following  manner  : — The  hands,  or 
a sponge  or  cloth,  is  dipped  into  a vessel  containing  cold  water,  placed 
on  a chair.  The  sponge  or  cloth  is  to  be  gently  expressed,  and  then 
conveyed  for  some  few  minutes  rapidly  over  the  whole  surface  of  the 
body;  then  the  same  operation  is  to  be  performed  with  dry  cloths, 
brushes,  &c.,  until  the  surface  is  entirely  dry.  Every  one,  old  and 
young,  should  practise  daily  ablutions. 

The  best  times  for  these  ablutions  is  the  morning.  They  are  to 
be  performed  immediately  after  rising  from  bed,  when  the  temperature 
of  the  body  is  raised  by  the  heat  of  the  bed.  In  many  cases  a second 
ablution  before  going  to  bed  will  suffice.  Local  ablution  will  have  to 
be  repeated  most  frequently,  where  we  wish  to  produce  increased  reac- 
tion ; even  in  these  cases  the  natural  warmth  of  the  body  should  be 
restored  before  proceeding  to  a second  ablu-tion ; to  increase  the  ben- 
eficial effects  of  this  washing,  it  should  be  accompanied  by  friction 
during  the  process ; this  is  also  essential  immediately  after  it.  Quite 
as  necessary  is  exercise  in  the  open  air,  if  circumstances  will  in  any 
way  permit  it.  Very  great  invalids  only  may  be  allowed,  after  wash- 
ing, to  retire  to  bed. 


HYDROPATHY,  OR  THE  WATER  CURE. 


73 


Plunging  Baths. 

Tire  immersion  of  the  body  covered  with  sweat,  into  cold  water,  is 
exempt  from  danger,  provided  the  organs  of  perspiration  are  in  a state 
of  repose.  The  risk  which  is  incurred  of  catching  cold,  if,  on  arriving 
at  a river  to  bathe,  we  remain  until  the  body  is  cold,  cannot  exist  in 
this  case  ; as  we  thereby  abstract  from  the  body  the  heat  which  it  re- 
quires to  produce  reaction,  and  thus  lose  the  good  effect  of  bathing. 
If  we  walk  fast,  or  a long  distance,  to  the  bath,  it  is  requisite  to  repose 
a little  in  order  to  tranquillize  the  lungs,  after  which  we  must  undress 
quickly  and  plunge  headforemost  into  the  water,  having  first  wetted 
the  head  and  chest,  to  prevent  the  blood  from  mounting  to  those  regions. 
This  precaution  is  strongly  enforced  at  Graefenberg.  During  the 
bath,  the  head  ought  to  be  immersed  several  times  into  the  water. 
Great  care  is  requisite  in  not  exposing  the  body,  between  throwing 
aside  the  blanket  after  sweating  and  entering  into  the  bath. 

It  is  highly  advantageous  to  keep  in  movement  in  the  bath,  and  to 
rub  with  the  hands  any  parts  afflicted.  The  skin  is  thus  stimulated, 
and  the  sensation  of  cold  abated.  Those  whose  chests  are  affected, 
must  exercise  moderation  in  the  use  of  the  bath,  entering  it  only  by 
degrees,  and  not  staying  in  it  too  long.  In  general,  the  time  for  re- 
maining in  the  bath  is  governed  by  the  coldness  of  the  water,  and  the 
vital  heat.  At  Graefenberg,  where  the  temperature  of  the  water  is 
from  43  to  50  degrees,  no  one  stays  longer  in  the  bath  than  from  six 
to  eight  minutes.  Priessnitz  advises  his  patients  to  avoid  the  second 
sensation  of  cold  by  leaving  the  bath  before  it  is  felt ; by  this  means 
the  patient  will  avoid  a too  powerful  reaction  provoked  by  a great  sub- 
traction of  heat.  This  precaution  is  indispensable  at  the  epoch  of  the 
treatment  marked  by  fevers  and  eruptions.  Then  a reaction,  produced 
by  an  immoderate  use  of  the  bath  or  douche,  would  compel  the  invalid 
to  keep  his  bed  for  some  days  without  at  all  accelerating  the  cure. 

A glass  or  two  of  water  immediately  after  the  bath,  is  agreeable,  and 
should  not  be  omitted  whilst  walking. 

The  Half-Bath. 

This  is  employed  in  cases  in  which  the  whole  bath  would  be  too 
much  for  the  strength  of  the  invalid,  who  may  require  to  be  bathed  for 
a longer  time,  in  order  to  excite  the  morbid  humors.  It  is  less  active 
than  the  entire  bath,  and  it  is  attended  with  less  danger.  The  temper- 
ature of  the  small  or  half-bath  is  never  lower  than  about  60  degrees. 

The  water  in  these  half-baths  is  only  about  three  to  six  inches  deep. 
When  it  is  necessary  that  the  invalid  should  have  the  advantage  of  an 
entire  bath,  water  is  poured  upon,  or  the  attendant  constantly  wets  the 
body  and  head  with  the  water  of  the  bath. 

The  half-bath  is  frequently  taken  by  the  patient  immediately  after  he 
has  been  confined  in  the  wTet  sheet.  It  may  be  accompsnied  by  a gen- 
eral sprinkling  of  the  body  with  cold  water  and  rubbing.  When  the 
patient  quits  the  bath,  he  dries  himself,  dresses,  and  proceeds  to  take 
exercise  in  the  open  air. 

4 


74 


HYDROPATHY,  OR  THE  WATER  CURE 


Sitting -Baths. 

The  dimensions  of  the  vessel  should  be  about  the  following : height 
of  the  pedestal,  four  to  six  inches  ; the  inner  depth  of  the  vessel  from 
nine  to  ten  inches ; height  of  the  back,  six  to  eight  inches ; whole 
breadth  of  the  vessel,  twenty-two  to  twenty-four  inches.  These  baths 
are  made  of  wood  or  tin.  The  vessel  in  which  the  bath  is  taken  should 
be  filled  with  water,  until  it  reaches  the  navel  of  the  patient,  when  in 
the  sitting  posture.  In  especial  cases,  a greater  or  less  height  of 
water  may  be  requisite.  During  the  bath,  the  upper  part  of  the  body 
is  to  remain  covered,  the  shirt  should  be  turned  up,  and  the  legs  and 
feet  are  to  be  enveloped  in  a woolen  coverlet.  Whilst  the  person  is 
in  the  bath,  he  may  rub  the  abdomen  with  a woolen  cloth,  to  increase 
the  action  of  the  skin,  and  to  facilitate  the  passage  of  flatulent  collec- 
tions. The  action  of  sitting-baths  varies.  Where  they  are  desired  to 
have  a tonic  action,  the  temperature  should  be  from  50  to  60  degrees 
of  Fah.,  and  they  should  be  continued  from  ten  to  fifteen  minutes.  To 
act  as  a stimulant,  and  to  produce  more  powerful  reaction,  they  must 
be  continued  for  the  same  length  of  time ; but  their  temperature  must 
not  exceed  40  to  45  degrees  of  Fah. 

Where  the  sitting-baths  are  to  act  as  derivatives,  determining  the 
blood  from  parts  which  suffer  from  congestion,  the  patient  must  remain 
twenty  minutes  to  half  an  hour  in  the  bath.  It  is  sometimes  neces- 
sary, during  the  bath,  to  adapt  cold  applications  to  the  parts  affected ; 
this  is  the  more  necessary,  if  the  congestion  increase  during  the  bath. 

If  the  sitting-baths  be  intended  to  produce  a solvent  effect,  a mod- 
erate temperature  of  60  to  70  degrees  of  Fah.,  and  rather  a lengthened 
continuation  of  them,  say  from  half  an  hour  to  an  hour  or  more,  will 
be  required.  It  is  advisable,  that  patients  suffering  from  obstructions 
or  haemorrhoids  should  sit  in  deeper  water  ; it  may,  in  this  case,  ex- 
tend beyond  the  umbilicus. 

These  baths  should  not,  as  a rule,  be  taken  immediately  after  eating, 
as  they  will  be  liable  to  derange  the  digestion,  and  produce  irregular- 
ities in  the  evacuations.  The  best  time  is  an  hour  before  dinner,  or 
before  going  to  bed.  In  the  latter  case  they  offer  the  advantage  of 
securing  a night’s  rest  to  the  patient.  Generally  speaking,  two  sit- 
ting-baths a day  will  suffice  ; in  particular  cases,  especially  if  not  per- 
severed in  for  a long  time,  five  to  six  may  be  taken  during  the  day. 
Exercise  in  the  open  air  is  to  be  strictly  recommended  both  before  and 
after  these  baths. 

Leg- Bath. 

The  thighs  and  legs,  when  afflicted  with  ulcers,  ring- worms,  wounds, 
or  fixed  rheumatic  pains,  ought  to  be  put  into  a*  bath  so  as  to  cover  the 
parts  afflicted.  The  object  of  these  baths  is  for  them  to  act  as  stimu- 
lants. They  may  be  taken  for  an  hour,  and  sometimes  longer  : they 
always  determine  abscesses,  and  where  they  already  exist,  they  cause 
an  abundant  suppuration.  They  are  also  applicable  to  any  ether  mem- 
bers afflicted  in  a like  manner. 


74 


HYDROPATHY,  OR  THE  WATER  CURE. 

Shower -Bath, 

In  this  kind  of  bath  very  weakly  or  irritable  people  may  begin  with 
tepid  water,  and  they  will  soon  accustom  themselves  to  cold,  as  these 
baths  produce  a very  grateful  impression.  Those  who  cannot  obtain 
a proper  machine  may  stand  in  an  empty  bathing  vat,  or  other  vessel, 
sufficiently  large,  whilst  an  assistant  standing  on  a chair  pours  water 
over  them  from  a common  watering-pot,  which  answer^  the  purpose 
perfectly. 

The  action  of  these  baths  consists  in  a general  shock  to  the  nervous 
system,  and  to  the  skin  ; in  consequence  of  which,  the  secretion  and 
excretion  is  promoted,  and  the  whole  economy  benefited.  As  the  ac- 
tion of  shower-baths  is  closely  allied  to  that  of  ablutions,  they  are 
justly  preferred  to  these  by  many  people,  because  their  effect  is  milder 
and  more  grateful,  and  the  water,  in  the  form  of  rain  is  brought  in 
contact  with  all  parts  of  the  body  at  the  same  time.  They  are  to  be 
-ecommended  in  diseases  requiring  repeated  sweatings  for  their  cure ; 
or  patients  who,  in  consequence  of  congestions,  and  diseases  of  the 
chest,  cannot  bear  the  full  baths  after  the  process  of  sweating.  These 
baths  deserve  recommendation  to  families.  Children  may  be  best  ac- 
customed to  cold  water  in  these  baths  where  the  temperature  can  at 
first  be  raised,  and  then  gradually  decreased. 

The  Douche . 

This  description  of  bath  is  prepared  with  the  aid  of  mechanical  con- 
trivances, by  means  of  which  a stream  of  water  is  made  to  fall  upon  the 
body  with  more  or  less  force.  In  some  respects  it  is  more  advantageous 
to  make  use  of  a natural  fall  of  water  for  this  purpose ; we  can  then 
conduct  the  water  simply  into  a channel,  giving  it  a fall  of  twelve  to 
twenty  feet,  and  to  the  stream  a calibre  of  half  an  inch  to  five  inches. 
Douche  rooms,  admitting  by  their  construction  of  the  access  of  air 
from  above,  produce  an  agreeable  sensation,  especially  in  summer,  and 
are  very  beneficial  in  their  action.  After  the  first  time  of  using  these 
baths,  the  dreadful  ideas  which  many  patients  preconceive  of  them 
quickly  disappear. 

The  chief  consideration  in  the  use  of  the  douche  should  be  to  guard 
against  applying  it  to  the  body  when  quite  cold,  or  when  in  a state  of 
perspiration  after  active  exercise.  The  patient,  after  undressing  in  n 
moderate  temperature,  steps  below  the  falling  stream,  attempting  to  re- 
ceive it  in  the  palms  of  his  hands,  that  the  whole  force  and  volume  of 
the  water  may  not  fall  upon  his  body  immediately,  which  is  not,  to  say 
the  least,  at  all  times  agreeable.  After  having  thus  prepared  himself  for 
the  more  potent  shock,  he  must  expose  himself  to  the  full  stream,  and, 
in  such  a manner,  that  the  whole  column  of  water  falls  chiefly  on  the. 
neck  and  spine.  From  time  to  time  he  must  equally  expose  the  other 
members  of  the  body  to  the  stream ; but  the  affected  parts  chiefly,  and 
for  a greater  length  of  time.  He  should  be  careful  not  to  allow  the 
stream  to  fall  perpendicularly  on  the  head,  chest,  or  the  region  of  the 
liver,  especially  if  these  parts  be  weak  or  affected  with  disease. 

The  duration  of  the  douche  must  be  regulated  by  the  constitution  of 


76 


THE  ART  OF  CONVERSATION. 


the  patient,  and  the  effect  we  wish  to  produce ; it  sho  ild  never  be  con- 
tinued for  less  than  one,  nor  more  than  twelve  minutes. 

It  is  only  to  be  taken  fasting,  or  immediately  after  sweating,  ano 
never  on  a full  stomach,  nor  oftener  than  once  or  twice  daily.  It  is, 
moreover,  not  advisable  to  drink  cold  water  immediately  after  the 
douche,  because  a rapid  generation  of  heat  is  thus  impeded,  and  in- 
flammation of  the  stomach  and  bowels  might  be  caused. 


THE  ART  OF  CONVERSATION. 

The  art  of  conversation,  so  essential  to  every  one  who  wishes  to 
mingle  in  society,  can  only  be  perfected  by  frequent  intercourse  with 
the  polite  ; yet  great  assistance  may  be  derived  by  an  intelligent  per- 
son from  the  observations  below,  and  no  important  blunders  can  possi- 
bly be  made  if  the  rules  here  given  be  attended  to. 


Under  favorable  circumstances,  and  among  persons  who  know  how 
to  train  a conversation,  there  are  few  if  any  amusements  more  grate- 
ful to  the  human  mind.  Every  one  knows  something  which  he  is 
willing  to  tell,  and  which  any  other  that  he  is  in  company  with  wishes 
to  know,  or  which,  if  known  to  him,  would  be  amusing  or  useful. 

To  be  a skillful  conversationist,  one’s  eyes  and  ears  should  be  busy ; 
nothing  should  escape  his  observation.  His  memory  should  be  a good 
one,  and  he  should  have  a good-natured  willingness  to  please  and  to 
be  pleased. 

It  follows  that  all  matter  of  offence  in  conversation  should  be  avoid- 
sd.  The  self-love  of  others  is  to  be  respected.  Therefore,  no  one  is 
tolerated  who  makes  himself  the  subject  of  his  own  commendation,  nor 
who  disregards  the  feelings  of  those  whom  he  addresses. 

There  is  as  much  demand  for  politeness  and  civility  in  conversation 
as  in  any  other  department  of  social  intercourse.  One  who  rudely 
)nterrupts  another,  does  much  the  same  thing  as  though  he  should, 
when  walking  with  another,  impertinently  thrust  himself  before  his 
companion,  and  stops  his  progress. 

It  was  one  of  the  maxims  of  a French  philosopher,  that  “ in  con- 
versation, confidence  has  a greater  share  than  wit.”  The  maxim  is 
erroneous,  although  it  is  true  that  a fashionable  fool  may  attain  to  the 
small  talk  of  which  much  of  the  conversation  of  society  is  composed, 
and  his  glib  confidence  may  so  far  impose  upon  the  superficial  as  to 
make  this  pass  for  wit ; but  it  will  not  be  received  as  such  by  that 
portion  of  society  whose  esteem  is  desirable.  Good  sense,  sound  and 
• varied  information,  are  as  necessary  as  confidence,  to  enable  a man  to 
eonverse  well. 

In  addition,  then,  to  the  ordinary  routine  of  education,  make  your- 
self acquainted  with  the  passing  circumstances  of  the  day — its  poli- 
tics, its  parties,  itis  amusements,  its  foibles,  its  customs,  its  literatures 
and  at  ' he  present  time,  I must  also  say  its  science.  Some  of  these 


THE  ART  OF  CONVERSATION. 


77 


subjects  may  be  the  parent  of  much  gossip  and  scandal ; still,  a man 
moving  in  society  as  a gentleman,  must  be  ignorant  of  nothing  which 
relates  thereto,  or  if  he  is,  he  must  not  appear  to  be. 

Avoid  a loud  tone,  particularly  if  speaking  to  ladies.  By  observing 
men  of  the  world,  you  will  perceive  that  their  voices,  as  it  were,  in- 
voluntarily, assume  a softness  as  they  address  the  sex;  this  is  one  of 
the  most  obvious  proofs  of  an  intimacy  with  good  society. 

Never  attempt  to  occupy  the  attention  of  a company  for  a long  time : 
unless  your  conversation  be  very  brilliant,  it  must  become  tiresome. 
Never  tell  long  stories,  or  retail  well-known  anecdotes. 

-tie  not  partial  to  theorizing,  or  your  conversation  will  assume  the 
style  of  speech-making,  which  is  intolerable. 

Badinage  is  pleasant  but  it  may  be  dangerous;  stupid  people  may 
imagine  you  are  ridiculing  them,  and  the  stupid  are  the  most  assiduous 
GiiGmies. 

Abjure  punning ; it  has  been  aptly  designated  “ the  wit  of  fools.”  A 
man  of  talent  rarely  condescends  to  be  an  habitual  punster ; a gentle- 

tibie  with  ™ PT"ng  ‘S  a S?>rt  °f  Pot'house  wit>  which  ^ quite  incompa- 
tible with  good  manners.  Be  not  over  anxious  to  be  considered  a wit  • 
recollect  that,  except  in  the  society  of  wits,  the  wit  of  the  company  is 
likely  to  become  the  butt  of  the  company.  company  is 

cunatfnn  nfT°n  err°r’ th^,  of  ,adaPting  your  conversation  to  the  oc- 
cupation of  the  persons  with  whom  you  are  conversing,  and  to  some 
.persons  it  is  exceedingly  offensive.  Thus,  introducing 
theology  to  a clergyman— of  law  to  a barrister,  &c!  &c.,  is  in  fact 

ed-afl  ar  i?”"”'1' n ',ieCt  with  wbich  you  are  best  acquaint- 
• , -a,  ,are  , ke  to  me-  This  is  an  assumption  of  superiority4 which 

is  highly  indecorous,  and  will  ultimately  insure  punishment.  7 A man 

Inadvet^f  ^ b8  °ffended’  but  he  ^ instantly  attribute 
the  inadvertence  to  ignorance ; indeed,  it  generally  arises  from  a de- 
sire to  avoid  the  awkwardness  of  silence?  and  is  a bunglin"  way  of 
St0™!,  °nUS  °f  sl,staining  ‘he  conversation,  and  of 

vouthe  hfnZfir  fT'  lnc?mPetence;  but  where  one  person  will  give 
y Atnrthf  °f  th‘f  apology’  a dozen  wil1  consider  you  impertinent, 
excessive  i an  ir  most  contemptible  character,  uniting  in  person  either 

mischleffand  mah^ity & Vamty’  0r  the  eXtremes  of  meanness> 

ieabusTtLntalStyr11^"  ^ ^ ^ than  vice~Men’  ^om 

Without  intending  mischief,  many  persons  do  much,  bv  repeating 
conversations  from  one  house  to  another.  This  gossiping  is  air  but  as 
injurious  as  scandal;  for  as  you  can  never  represent  the  exact ci“ 

may  give6a  mfh"  \ faCt  "?ay  have  been  related>  y°ur  version 

tte  oriJLl  S*  k meaWng  *°  that  wbich  was  intended  by 

do*e  c l16' 5 aS  observat,on  Proves  that,  in  relating  an  anec- 
SDfeaker  n?i  f t nj  We,g‘ve  our  impression  of  the  meaning  of  the 
infinite  mischief."  ” ^ t iUS  * mlsconception  of  our  own  may  produce 

nofshow  S T'et,  Permit  himself  to  lose  his  temper  in  society, 
how  that  he  has  taken  offence  at  any  supposed  slight— it  places 


T8 


THE  ART  OF  CONVERSATION. 


him  in  a disadvantageous  position — betraying  an  absence  of  self* 
respect,  or  at  the  least  of  self-position. 

If  a “ puppy”  adopt  a disagreeable  tone  of  voice,  or  offensive  man- 
ner toward  you,  nevei  resent  it  at  the  time , and,  above  all,  do  not  adopt 
the  same  style  in  your  conversation  with  him  ; appear  not  to  notice  it, 
and  generally  it  will  be  discontinued,  as  it  will  be  seen  that  it  has  failed 
in  its  object,  besides  which — you  save  your  temper. 

Avoid  a loud  tone  of  voice  in  conversation,  or  a “horse  laugh  both 
are  exceedingly  vulgar ; and  if  practised,  strangers  may  think  that 
you  have  been  “ cad”  to  an  omnibus.  There  is  a slightly  subdued 
patrician  tone  of  voice , which  we  fear  can  only  be  acquired  in  good 
society.  Be  cautious  also  how  you  take  the  lead  in  conversation,  un- 
less it  be  forced  upon  you,  lest  people  reiterate  the  remark  made  on  a 
certain  occasion  upon  that  “ Brummagem ” Johnson,  Dr.  Parr — that 
“ he  was  like  a great  toe  in  society  ; the  most  ignoble  part  of  the  body , 
yet  ever  thrust  foremost .” 

Be  very  careful  how  you  “ show  off”  in  strange  company,  unless 
you  be  thoroughly  conversant  with  your  subject,  as  you  are  never  sure 
of  the  person  next  to  whom  you  may  be  seated. 

Lounging  on  sofas,  or  reclining  in  chairs,  or  leaning  back  in  a chair 
when  in  society^  as  if  in  the  privacy  of  one’s  own  dressing  room  or 
study,  is  always  considered  indecorous  ; but  in  the  presence  of  ladies, 
is  deemed  extremely  vulgar. 

Mothers  should  be  on  their  guard  not  to  repeat  nursery  anecdotes 
or  bon-mots,  as,  however  interesting  to  themselves,  they  are  seldom  so 
to  others.  Long  stories  should  always  be  avoided,  as,  however  well 
told,  they  interrupt  general  conversation,  and  leave  the  impression  that 
the  narrator  thought  the  circle  dull,  and  consequently  endeavored  to 
amuse  it. 

Never  use  the  term  “genteel”  Do  not  speak  of  “ genteel  people 
it  is  a low  estimate  of  good  breeding,  used  only  by  vulgar  persons,  and 
from  their  lips  implies  that  union  of  finery,  flippancy  and  affectation, 
often  found  in  those  but  one  remove  from  the  essentially  vulgar.  Sub- 
stitute “ well  bred  persons ,”  “ manners  of  a gentlewoman ” or  of  “a 
gentleman ,”  instead. 

Never  use  the  initial  of  a person’s  name  to  designate  him;  as 
“Mr.  P.,”  “ Mrs.  C.,”  “Miss  W.,”  &c.  Nothing  is  more  abominable 
than  to  hear  a woman  speak  of  her  husband  as  “ Mr.  B.” 

It  is  allowable,  in  some  cases,  to  conceal  our  sentiments ; but  we 
ought  never  to  do  so  for  the  purpose  of  deceiving  others.  Make  it  a 
rule  never  to  give  utterance  to  a falsehood : in  all  circumstances,  and 
whatever  be  the  consequences,  adhere  to  truth. 

It  is  not  considered  good  taste  for  a lady  to  say yes,  Sir,”  and  “ no, 
Sir,”  to  a gentleman,  or  frequently  to  introduce  the  word  Sir  at  the 
end  of  her  sentences,  unless  she  desires  to  be  exceedingly  reserved 
toward  the  person  with  whom  she  is  conversing. 

It  is  not  contrary  to  good  breeding  to  laugh  in  company,  and  even  tc 
laugh  heartily,  when  there  is  anything  amusing  going  on ; this  is 
nothing  more  than  being  "sociable.  To  remain  prim  and  precise  oil 
wiich  an  occasion,  is  sheer  affectation. 


THE  ART  OF  CONVERSATION. 


79 


If,  upon  the  entrance  of  a visitor,  you  continue  a conversation  begun 
before,  you  should  always  explain  the  subject  to  the  new-comer. 

There  cannot  be  a custom  more  vulgar  or  offensive  than  that  of 
taking  a person  aside  to  whisper  in  a room  with  company,  yet  this 
rudeness  is  of  frequent  occurrence — and  that  with  persons  who  ought 
to  know  better. 

Conversation  shov  d be  studied  as  an  art.  Style  in  conversation  is 
as  important,  and  as.  capable  of  cultivation,  as  style  in  writing.  The 
manner  of  saying  things  is  what  gives  them  their  value. 

Avoid  provincialisms  in  your  language  and  pronunciation.  Walker 
is  the  standard  for  pronouncing  in  the  best  society,  both  in  the  United 
Spates  and  in  England. 

Swearing,  which  .ormerly  pervaded  every  rank  of  society,  is  now 
to  be  chiefly  found  in  a very  low  and  uninstructed  class  ; it  is,  in  fact, 
a vulgar  and  proscribed  mode  of  speech.  Nevertheless,  it  is  still  used 
occasionally  by  persons  of  no  humbie  rank,  especially  by  the  young, 
though  chiefly  for  the  purpose  of  giving  an  emphasis  to  speech,  or 
perhaps  simply  to  give  token  of  a redundancy  of  spirits,  and  a high 
state  of  excitement.  To  these  who  are  guilty  of  it  for  these  reasons, 
it  is  only  necessary  to  point  out,  that  no  well-informed  person  can  be 
at  the  least  loss,  with  the  genuine  words  of  the  English  language,  to 
express  all  legitimate  ideas  and  feelings,  and  that  to  use  either  pro- 
fane or  slang  words  is,  at  the  least,  the  indication  of  a low  taste  and 
inferior  understanding.  A direct,  pure,  manly  use  of  our  native  lan- 
guage is  an  object  which  all  may  cultivate  in  a greater  or  less  degree ; 
and  we  ha  sre  invariably  obsa'-ved,  through  life,  that  the  most  virtuous 
persons  ar  ; the  most  exempt  from  the  use  of  mean  and  ridiculous 
phraseology  and  monkey  tricks  of  all  kinds. 

Meeting  an  acquaintance  among  strangers — in  the  street  or  a cof- 
fee-house— never  address  him  by  name.  It  is  vulgar  and  annoying. 

Never  tattle — nor  repeat  in  one  society  any  scandal  or  personal 
matter  you  hear  in  another.  Give  your  own  opinion  of  people  if  you 
please,  but  never  repeat  that  of  others. 

You  are  not  required  to  defend  your  friends  in  company,  unless  the 
conversation  is  addressed  to  you ; but  you  may  correct  a statement  of 
fact,  if  you  know  it  to  be  wrong. 

Do  not  call  people  by  their  names,  in  speaking  to  them.  In  speak- 
ing of  your  own  children,  never  “ Master”  and  “ Miss”  them — in  speak- 
ing to  other  people  of  theirs,  never  neglect  to  do  so. 

In  the  use  of  language,  avoid  too  great  formality  of  expression,  and 
an  affectation  of  preciseness.  It  is  better  to  say  “ I don’t  know,”  or 
“ I can’t  tell,”  than  “ I do  not  know,”  or  “ I cannot  tell.”  Preserve  a 
proper  medium,  avoiding  pedantry  on  the  one  hand,  and  vulgarity  on 
the  other.  In  all  cases  speak  plainly,  with  proper  emphasis  and  inflec- 
tion, neither  drawling,  nor  mumbling,  nor  chattering,  nor  spluttering, 
nor  speaking  through  the  nose,  nor  mouthing,  like  a stage-player  mur- 
dering Shakspeare,  nor  whining  like  a whipped  school-boy.  There 
are  a thousand  vulgarities  of  pronunciation  and  expression  which  it  is 
impossible  to  enumerate — such  as  “ onct,”  for  once  ; “ dost,”  for  does ; 
“ wulgar,”  for  vulgar  ; and  the  rest. 


Bo  COOKERY  FOR  THE  SICK  ROOM. 

In  relating  a circumstance  to  any  one,  do  not  be  constantly  saying 
— ' 14  you  know” — “ you  understand  ” — “ you  take.” 

Do  not  at  every  six  words  put  in  a “ says  he,”  or  u says  she,”  which 
last  I have  heard  voluble  old  ladies  shorten  into  a continual  “ sheshe.” 

What  is  called  doubling  comparatives  should  be  carefully  avoided, 
such  as  “ more  better,”  “ more  honester,”  &c. 

Avoid  grand  words  and  high  sounding  phrases,  particularly  when 
you  are  not  quite  sure  you  can  use  them  correctly,  or  you  may  be  ex- 
posed to  the  same  ridicule  as  was  a worthy  lady  with  more  money  than 
learning,  who,  in  describing  the  mansion  her  husband  was  about  to 
build,  said  there  was  to  be  a “ Pizarro”  on  the  front,  and  a “ lemonade” 
all  round  it,  while,  to  complete  the  arrangement,  the  water  was  to  come 
in  an  “ anecdote.” 

There  is  another  vulgar  affectation — that  of  claiming  acquaintance 
with  distinguished  people.  Some  persons  are  forever  telling  of  Gov- 
ernor this,  and  General  that,  evidently  to  increase  their  own  conse- 
quence. 

While  music  is  playing,  especially  while  any  one  is  singing,  it  is 
very  bad  manners,  little  better  than  an  insult,  indeed,  to  talk  at  all. 

In  general  society,  certain  subjects  must  be  carefully  excluded. 
Politics  generally  lead  to  warm  and  intemperate  discussions.  Secta- 
rian opinions  of  religion  cannot  be  put  forth  without  offence,  and  all 
matters  of  controversy  should  be  avoided. 

In  ordinary  conversation,  the  modulation  and  proper  management  of 
the  voice  is  a point  worthy  of  the  attention  of  young  ladies ; for  a fine, 
and  melodious  voice,  “ sweet  as  music  on  the  waters,”  makes  the  heart- 
strings vibrate  to  their  very  core. 

The  thin,  small  voice  is  the  most  difficult  to  manage,  as  it  is  liable 
to  degenerate  into  shrillness  ; and  ladies  who  have  this  kind  of  voice 
must  keep  strict  guard  over  their  temper,  when  within  hearing  of  any 
one  on  whom  they  may  wish  to  make  a favorable  impression  ; for  the 
very  idea  of  a shrill  voiced  scold  makes  us  place  our  hands  to  our 
ears.  But  with  a sweet  temper,  a pretty  little  harmonious  voice  is 
pleasing  enough.  Always  recollect,  however,  that  affectation,  con- 
straint, or  striving  for  effect,  is  the  certain  ruin  of  the  prettiest  voice 
in  the  world. 


COOKERY  FOR  THE  SICK  ROOM. 

Too  little  attention  is  generally  paid  to  the  preparation  of  food  for 
the  sick;  and  when  we  consider  that  “ kitchen  physic  is  often  the  best 
physic,”  it  is  a matter  of  surprise  that  so  important  a subject  should 
oe  so  frequently  neglected.  The  palate  of  a sick  person  is  usually 
more  nice,  and  less  easily  pleased,  than  that  of  one  in  good  health,  and 
the  utmost  delicacy  is  required  in  preparing  nourishing  articles  of  diet. 

The  cookery  for  the  sick  room  is  confined  to  the  processes  of  boil- 
ing, baking,  and  roasting ; and  it  may  be  useful  to  offer  a few  remarks 
upon  the  principles  which  render  these  processes  serviceable  for  the 
preparation  of  food.  By  cookery,  alimentary  substances  undergo  a 


COOK  Erl  Y FOR  THE  SICK  ROOM. 


81 


two-fold  change, — their  principles  are  chemically  modified,  and  their 
texture  is  mechanically  changed.  The  extent  and  nature  of  these 
changes  greatly  depend  on  the  manner  in  which  heat  has  been  applied 
to  them. 


(1.)  Boiling . 

Boilkig  softens  the  animal  fibre,  and  the  principles  not  properly  solu- 
ble are  rendered  softer,  and  easier  of  digestion.  In  boiling  meat,  the 
water  should  scarcely  be  brought  to  the  boiling  temperature,  but  it 
should  be  long  kept  at  a lower  than  the  boiling  point  of  water,  or  in 
that  state  which  approaches  more  to  stewing  than  to  boiling.  The 
nature  of  the  water  is  also  of  some  importance.  Dr.  Paris  observes,, 
that  meat  boiled  in  hard  water  is  more  tender  and  juicy  than  when 
soft  water  is  used  ; while  vegetables  are  rendered  harder  and  less  di- 
gestible when  boiled  in  hard  water. 

(2.)  Baking. 

Excepting  in  the  preparation  of  light  puddings,  the  process  of  baking 
is  inadmissible  for  the  sick. 

(3.)  Roasting. 

Roasting  softens  the  tendinous  part  of  meat  better  than  boiling,  and 
it  retains  more  of  its  nutritious  principles.  Care  should  always  be 
taken  that  the  meat  be  neither  over  or  under-done ; for,  although  in  the 
latter  state  it  may  contain  more  nutriment,  yet  it  will  be  less  digesdble 
on  account  of  the  density  of  its  texture.  It  has  of  late  years  been 
much  the  fashion  to  regard  under-done  roasted  meat  as  being  well 
adapted  for  weak  stomachs ; but  no  opinion  is  more  erroneous. 

(4.)  Mutton  Broth. 

This  is  prepared  from  a pound  of  good  mutton,  freed  from  fat,  and 
cut  into  slices,  and  a pint  and  a half  of  soft  water.  Boil  for  half  an 
hour,  after  the  maceration,  and  then  strain  it  through  a sieve. 

(5.)  Panada. 

Having  pared  off  the  crust,  boil  some  slices  of  bread  in  a quart  of 
water  for  about  five  minutes.  Then  take  out  the  bread,  and  beat  if 
smooth  in  a deep  dish,  mixing  in  a little  of  the  water  it  has  boiled  in  ; 
and  mix  it  with  a bit  of  fresh  butter,  and  sugar  and  nutmeg  to  youi 
taste. 

(6.)  Tapioca . 

Wash  the  tapioca  well,  and  let  it  steep  for  five  or  six  hours,  chang- 
ing the  water  three  times.  Simmer  it  in  the  last  water  till  quite  clear 
then  season  it  with  sugar  and  wine,  or  lemon-juice. 

(7.)  Rice  Jelly. 

Having  picked  and  washed  a quarter  of  a pound  of  rice,  mix 
it  with  half  a pound  of  loaf  sugar,  and  just  sufficient  water  to 
cover  it.  Boil  it  till  it  becomes  a glutinous  mass ; then  strain  it/ 
4* 


82^  RESPECTING  CLOTHING,  ETC. 

season  it  with  whatever  may  be  thought  proper ; and  let  it  stand  to 
cool. 

(8.)  Gruel. 

Allow  three  large  tablespoonfuls  of  oatmeal  or  Indian  meal  to  a 
quart  of  water.  Put  the  meal  into  a large  bowl,  and  add  the  water,  a 
little  at  a time,  mixing  and  bruising  the  meal  with  the  back  of  a 
spoon.  As  you  proceed,  pour  off  the  liquid  into  another  bowl,  at 
every  time,  before  adding  fresh  water  to  the  meal,  till  you  have  used 
it  all  up.  Then  boil  the  mixture  for  twenty  minutes,  stirring  it  all  the 
while;  add  a little  salt.  Then  strain  the  gruel' 'and  sweeten  it.  A 
piece  of  butter  may  be  stirred  into  it ; and  also  a little  wine  and  nut- 
meg. It  should  the  taken  warm. 


RESPECTING  CLOTHING,  &c. 

(L)  Putting  away  Woolens . 

The  following  method  of  putting  away  all  the  woolen  and  worsted 
articles  of  the  house,  will  be  found  an  infallible  preservative  against 
moths  : and  the  cost  is  nothing  in  comparison  to  the  security  it  affords 
of  finding  the  things  in  good  order  when  opened  for  use  on  the  return 
of  cold  weather.  Procure,  at  a distiller’s  or  elsewhere,  a tight,  empty 
hogshead,  that  has  held  whiskey.  Have  it  well  cleaned,  (without  wash- 
ing) and  see  that  it  is  quite  dry.  Let  it  be  placed  in  some  part  of  the 
house  that  is  little  used  in  summer,  and  where  it  can  be  shut  up  dark. 

After  the  carpets  have  been  taken  up,  and  well  shaken  and  beaten 
and  the  grease-spots  all  removed,  (see  4)  let  them  be  folded  and  packet* 
closely  down  in  the  cask.  Put  in  also  the  blankets,  having  first  wash- 
ed all  that  were  not  clean ; also,  the  woolen  table-covers.  If  you 
have  worsted  or  cloth  curtains  and  cushions,  pack  them  likewise,  after 
they  have  been  freed  from  dust.  Also,  flannels,  merinoes,  cloaks, 
coats,  furs,  and,  in  short,  everything  that  is  liable  to  be  attracted  by 
the  moths.  Fold  and  pack  them  closely,  making  all  the  articles  fit 
advantageously  into  the  space,  and  so  disposing  them  that  each  may 
find  a place  in  the  hogshead.  The  furs  had  best  be  sewed  up  in  linen 
before  they  are  put  in.  If  well  packed,  one  hogshead  will  generally 
hold  all  the  woolen  articles  belonging  to  a house  of  modern  size,  and 
a moderate  sized  family.  Then  nail  on  the  head  of  the  cask,  and  let 
the  whole  remain  undisturbed  till  the  warm  weather  is  over.  While 
the  house  is  shut  up,  and  the  family  out  of  town,  in  the  summer,  you 
may  safely  leave  your  woolens  put  away  in  this  manner.  Choose  a clear 
dry  day  for  unpacking  them  in  the  autumn  ; and  when  open,  expose 
them  to  the  air  till  the  odor  of  the  whiskey  has  gone  off.  If  they  are 
put  away  clean,  and  free  from  dust,  it  will  be  found  that  the  whiskey 
atmosphere  has  brightened  their  colors.  As  soon  as  the  things  are  all 
out  of  it,  nail  up  the  cask  again,  and  keep  it  for  next  season. 

Where  camphor  cannot  be  conveniently  procured,  furs,  flannels,  &c., 
may  be  kept  through  the  summer  by  sewing  them  up  in  linen,  and  in- 
terspersing properly  among  them  bits  of  fresh  sassafras  bark,  or  shav" 


RESPECTING  CLOTHING,  ETC. 


83 


ings  of  red  cedar.  But  there  is  nothing  so  certain  to  preserve  them 
from  moths  as  an  old  whiskey  cask.  Never  keep  hair  trunks.  They 
always  produce  moths. 

(2.)  French  method  of  washing  Silk  Cravats , Scarfs , Shawls , fyc. 

Make  a' mixture  in  a large  flat  dish,  of  the  following  articles: — A 
large  tablespoonful  of  soft  soap  or  of  hard  brown  soap,  shaved  fine, 

( white  soap  will  not  do) ; a small  teaspoonful  of  strained  honey,  and  a 
pint  of  spirits  of  wine ; have  ready  a large  brush,  (a  clothes  brush,  for 
instance);  make  perfectly  clean.  Lay  the  silk  on  a board  or  on  an 
ironing-table,  stretching  it  evenly,  and  securing  it  in  its  place  with 
weights  on  its  edges.  Then  dip  the  brush  into  the  mixture,  and  with 
>t  go  all  over  the  silk  lengthwise  of  the  texture,  beginning  at  the  part 
.'•east  seen  when  worn,  and  trying  a little  at  a time,  till  you  have  as- 
certained the  effect.  If  you  find  that  the  liquid  changes  the  color  of 
tne  silk,  weaken  it  by  adding  more  spirits  of  wine. 

Having  gone  carefully  over  the  whole  of  the  article,  dip  it  up  and 
down  in  a bucket  of  clean  water ; but  do  not  squeeze  or  wring  it. 
Repeat  this  through  another  clear  water,  and  then  through  a third. 
Afterwards  spread  it  on  a line  to  dry,  but  without  any  squeezing  or 
wringing.  Let  it  dry  slowly.  While  still  damp,  take  it  down,  pull  i\ 
and  stretch  it  even,  then  roll  and  fold  it  up,  and  let  it  rest  a few  min 
utes.  Have  irons  ready,  and  iron  the  silk,  taking  care  that  the  iron 
'je  not  so  hot  as  to  change  the  color. 

The  above  quantity  of  the  washing  mixture  is  sufficient  for  about 
.ialf  a dozen  silk  handkerchiefs,  one  shawl,  or  two  scarfs,  if  they  are 
not  too  long.  If  there  be  fringe  on  the  scarfs,  it  is  best  to  take  it  off 
and  replace  it  with  new ; or  else  to  gather  the  ends  of  the  scarfs  and 
finish  them  with  a lapell  or  ball.  Brocaded  silks  cannot  be  washed  in 
this  way. 

Gentlemen’s  silk  or  cha.y  cravats  may  be  made  to  look  very  well 
washed  in  this  manner.  Ribbons,  also,  if  they  are  thick  and  rich. 
Indeed,  whatever  is  washed  by  this  process,  must  be  of  very  good  qual- 
ity. A foul  or  dyed  silk  dress  may  be  washed  this  way,  provided  it  is 
first  taken  apart ; silk  aprons  also.  We  have  seen  articles  washed  by 
this  process,  and  can  assure  our  readers  it  is  a good  one.  This  is 
also  a good  method  of  washing  blond,  using  a soft  sponge  instead  of  a 
brush.  When  dry,  lay  the  blond  in  long  folds  within  a large  sheet  of 
white  paper,  and  press  it  for  a few  days  in  a large  book,  but  do  not 
iron  it. 

In  putting  away  ribbons  o rsilk,  wrap  or  fold  them  in  coarse  brown 
paper,  which,  as  it  contains  a portion  of  tar  or  turpentine,  will  pre- 
serve the  color  of  the  article,  and  prevent  white  silk  from  turning  yel- 
low. The  chloride  of  lime  used  in  manufacturing  white  paper  renders 
it  improper  to  keep  silks  in,  as  it  frequently  causes  them  to  spot  or  to 
change  color. 

(3.)  To  make  a soiled  Coat  look  as  good  as  new. 

First  clean  the  coat  of  grease  and  dirt  (see  No,  4,)  then  take  one 
gallon  of  a strong  decoction  of  logwood  made  by  boiling  logwood  chips 


64 


THE  HOUSEWIFE'S  MANUAL. 


in  water.  Strain  this  liquid,  and  when  cool,  add  two  ounces  of  gum 
arabic  in  powder,  which  should  be  kept  in  well  stopped  bottles  for  use. 
Then  go  gently  over  the  coat  with  a sponge  wet  in  the  above  liquid 
diluted  to  suit  the  color,  and  hang  it  in  the  shade  to  dry.  After  which 
brush  the  nap  smoeth,  and  it  will  look  as  good  as  new.  The  liquid 
wiM  suit  all  brown  or  dark  colors  if  properly  diluted,  of  which  it  is 
easy  to  judge. 

(4.)  To  extract  Oil  or  Spermaceti  from  a Carpet  or  other  Woolen. 

If  oil  has  been  spilt  on  a carpet,  that  part  of  the  carpet  must  be 
loosened  up,  and  the  floor  beneath  it  well  scrubbed  with  warm  soap 
and  water,  and  fuller’s  earth ; otherwise  the  grease  will  continue  yet 
to  come  through.  You  may  extract  some  of  the  oil  by  washing  that 
part  of  the  carpet  with  cold  water  and  a cloth.  Then  spread  over  it 
a thin  coating  of  scraped  Wilmington  clay,  which  should  be  renewed 
every  two  or  three  hours.  If  you  have  no  Wilmington  clay,  take 
common  magnesia. 

To  remove  spots  of  spermaceti,  scrape  off  as  much  as  you  can  with 
a knife,  then  lay  on  a thin,  soft,  white  paper  upon  the  spots,  and  pres? 
it  with  a warm  iron.  By  repeating  this  you  may  draw  out  the  sper- 
maceti. Afterwards  rub  the  cloth  where  the  spots  have  been,  will 
some  very  soft  brownish  paper. 

Wilmington  clay,  which  may  be  had  in  small  round  balls,  is  excel 
lent  for  removing  grease  spots  however  large.  Scrape  down  a suffl 
cient  quantity,  and  rub  on  the  spot,  letting  it  rest  an  hour  or  more 
then  brush  it  off,  and  continue  to  repeat  the  process.  The  genuine 
Wilmington  clay,  pure  and  unmixed,  is  far  superior  to  any  other 
grease  ball  sold  by  the  druggists. 

(5.)  To  extract  Grease  Spots. 

Grease  of  the  very  worst  kind,  (whale  oil,  for  instance,)  may  be 
extracted  even  from  silks,  ribbons,  and  other  delicate  articles,  by  means 
of  camphine  oil.  As  this  oil  is  the  better  for  being  fresh,  get  but  lit- 
tle at  a time.  Pour  some  camphine  into  a cup,  and  dip  lightly  with  a 
clean,  soft,  white  rag.  With  this  rub  the  grease  spot.  Then  take  a 
fresh  rag  dipped  in  the  camphine,  and  continue  rubbing  till  the  grease 
is  extracted,  which  will  be  very  soon.  The  color  of  the  article  will  be 
uninjured.  To  remove  the  turpentine  odor  of  the  camphine.  rub  the 
place  with  Cologne  water  or  strong  spirits  of  wine,  and  expose  it  to 
the  open  air.  Repeat  this  process  if  any  odor  remains  after  the  first 

(6.)  To  take  Mildew  out  of  Linen. 

Take  soap  and  rub  it  well ; then  scrape  some  fine  chalk,  and  rub 
that  also  in  the  linen ; lay  it  on  the  grass ; as  it  dries,  wet  it  a little, 
and  it  will  soon  come  out. 

(7.)  To  take  Paint  off  of  Cloths . 

Rub  with  spirits  of  turpentine  or  spirits  of  wine,  either  will  answer 
if  the  paint  is  but  just  on.  But  if  be  is  allowed  to  harden,  nothing  will 
remove  it  but  spirits  of  turpentine  rubbed  on  with  perseverance  Use 
a soft  sponge  or  a soft  rag. 


CARE  OF  FURNITURE  AND  HOIJSE-KEEf  ING  ARTICLES.  8ft 

(8.)  To  dean  White  Kid  Gloves . 

Stretch  them  on  a board,  and  rub  the  soiled  spots  with  cream  of 
tartar  or  magnesia.  Let  them  rest  an  hour,  then  take  a mixture  of 
alum  and  fuller’s  earth  in  powder,  and  rub  it  all  over  the  gloves  with 
a clean  brush,  and  let  them  rest  again  for  an  hour  or  two.  Then 
sweep  it  all  off,  and  go  over  with  a flannel  dipped  in  a mixture  of  bran 
and  finely  powdered  whiting.  Let  them  rest  another  hour  ; brush  off 
the  powder,  and  you  will  find  them  clean. 

(9.)  To  wash  Colored  Kid  or  Hoskin  Gloves. 

Have,  on  a table,  a clean  towel,  folded  three  or  four  times,  a saucer 
of  new  milk,  and  a piece  of  brown  soap.  Spread  a glove  smoothly  on 
the  folded  towel,  dip  into  the  milk  a piece  of  clean  flannel,  rub  it  on 
the  soap  until  you  get  enough,  and  then  commence  rubbing  the  glove, 
beginning  at  the  wrist,  and  rubbing  lengthwise  to  the  ends  of  the  fin- 
gers, the  glove  being  held  firmly  in  the  left  hand.  When  done,  spread 
them  out  to  dry  gradually.  When  nearly  dry,  pull  them  out  the  cross 
way  of  the  leather,  and  when  quite  dry,  stretch  them  on  your  hand. 

(10.)  To  clean  White  Leather  Gloves. 

White  leather  gloves  may  be  cleaned  to  look  very  well,  by  putting 
on  one  at  a time,  and  going  over  them  thoroughly  with  a shaving  brush 
and  lather.  Then  wipe  them  off  with  a clean  handkerchief  or  sponge, 
and  dry  them  on  the  hands  by  the  fire,  or  in  the  sun. 

(11.)  To  preserve  Furs  from  Moths. 

Wrap  up  a few  cloves  or  pepper  ears  with  them  when  vou  put  them 
away  for  any  length  of  time. 

(12.)  To  extract  Durable  Ink. 

Rub  the  ink  stain  with  a little  sal-ammonia  moistened  with  watei 
(13.)  To  remove  Stains  from  Cotton  and  Linen. 

Put  a small  quantity  of  brimstone  into  an  iron  vessel,  and  drop  in  a 
live  coal  of  fire  ; having  first  wet  the  stained  spot  with  water,  lay  the 
cloth  over  the  vessel,  so  as  to  let  the  fumes  have  full  access  to  the 
.stained  spot,  and  it  will  soon  disappear,  or  become  'cose,  a;;  as  to 
wash  out. 


ON  THE  CARE  OF  FURNITURE  AND  HOUSE- 
KEEPING ARTICLES. 

(1.)  To  clean  the  imide  of  Jars. 

There  is  frequently  some  trouble  in  cleaning  the  inside  of  jars  that 
nave  had  sweatmeats,  pickles,  mince-meat,  or  other  articles  put  up  iri 
them  for  keeping,  and  that  when  empty  are  wanted  for  further  use. 
This  can  be  done  in  a few  minutes,  without  scraping  or  soaking,  by 
filling  up  the  jars  with  hot  water,  (it  need  no  be  scalding  hot,)  and 


86 


housewife’s  manual. 


then  stirring  in  a teaspoonful  or  more  of  pearlash.  Whatever  of  the 
former  contents  has  remained  sticking  about  the  sides  and  bottom  of 
the  jar  will  immediately  be  seen  to  disengage  itself,  and  float  loose 
through  the  water.  Then  empty  the  jar  at  once,  and  if  any  of  the 
former  odor  remains  about  it,  fill  it  again  with  warm  water  and  pearl- 
ash,  and  let  It  stand  undisturbed  a few  hours,  or  till  next  day ; then 
empty  it  again,  and  rinse  it  with  cold  water.  Wash  phials  in  the  same 
manner.  Also,  the  insides  of  kettles,  or  anything  which  you  w7ish  to 
purify  or  clear  from  grease  expeditiously  and  completely.  If  you 
cannot  conveniently  obtain  pearl-ash,  the  same  purpose  may  be  an- 
swered nearly  as  well,  by  filling  the  vessels  with  strong  ley,  poured  off 
clear  from  the  wood-ashes.  For  kegs,  buckets,  crocks,  or  other  very 
large  vessels,  ley  may  be  always  used. 

(2.)  To  dean  Wine  Decanters. 

Use  a little  pearl-ash  or  soda,  and  some  cinders  and  water.  Rinse 
them  well  out  with  clean  water. 

(3.)  To  dean  China. 

Use  a little  fuller’s  earth  and  soda,  or  pearl-ash,  with  your  water. 

(4.)  Cements. 

Cements  of  various  kinds  should  be  kept  for  occasional  use.  Flour 
paste  answers  very  well  for  slight  purposes;  if  required  stronger  than 
usual,  let  a little  glue  be  boiled  in  it,  or  put  some  powdered  rosin  in  it. 
White  of  egg,  or  a solution  of  glue  and  strong  gum  water,  are  good 
cements.  A paste  made  of  linseed  meal  dries  very  hard,  and  adheres 
firmly.  A soft  cement  is  made  of  yellow  wax  melted  with  its  weight 
of  turpentine,  and  a little  Venetian  red  to  give  it  color.  This,  when 
cool,  is  as  hard  as  soap,  and  is  very  useful  to  stop  up  cracks,  and  is 
better  to  cover  the  corks  of  bottles  than  sealing-wax  or  hard  cement. 

The  best  cement  for  broken  China  or  glass,  is  that  sold  under  the 
name  of  the  diamond  cement,  which  is  colorless,  and  resists  moisture 
This  is  made  by  soaking  isinglass  in  water  till  it  is  soft,  and  then  dis- 
solving it  in  proof  spirit.  Add  to  this  a little  gum-ammoniac,  or  gal- 
bonam,  or  mastic,  both  dissolved  in  as  little  alcohol  as  possible.  When 
the  cement  is  to  be  used,  it  must  be  gently  liquified  by  placing  the 
phial  containing  it  in  boiling  water.  The  phial  must  be  well  closed  by 
a good  cork,  not  by  a glass  stopper,  as  they  may  become  forced.  It  is 
applied  to  the  broken  edges  with  a camel’s  hair  pencil. 

When  the  objects  are  not  to  be  exposed  to  moisture,  the  white  of  an 
egg  alone,  or  mixed  with  finely  sifted  quick-lime,  will  answer  pretty 
well ; shellac,  dissolved  in  water,  is  better. 

A very  strong  cement  for  earthenware  is  made  by  boiling  slices  of 
skim-milk  cheese  wfith  water  into  a paste,  and  then  grinding  it  with 
quick-lime  in  a marble  mortar,  or  on  a slab,  with  a mallet. 

(5.)  To  remove  dark  stains  from  Silver. 

A certain  remedy  for  the  most  inveterate  stains  that  are  sometimes  to 
be  seen  on  teaspoons  and  other  silver  ware,  is  to  obtain  from  a drug* 


W 


CAllE  OF  FURNITURE  AND  HOUSE-KEEFING  ARTICLES* 


8? 


gist  a small  phial  of  sulphuric  acid,  and  pouring  a little  of  it  into  a 
saucer,  wet  with  it  a soft  linen  rag,  and  rub  it  on  the  blackened  silver 
till  the  stain  disappears.  Then  brighten  the  article  with  whiting  finely 
powdered  and  sifted,  and  wetted  with  whiskey  or  spirits  of  wine. 
When  the  whiting  has  dried  on,  and  rested  a quarter  of  an  hour  or 
more,  wipe  it  with  a silk  handkerchief,  and  polish  with  a soft  buckskin. 

(6.)  To  'prevent  Lamps  smoking. 

It  is  very  often  difficult  to  get  a good  light  from  a lamp,  and  yet  keep 
it  from  smoking,  but  if  the  wick  be  first  soaked  in  strong  vinegar,  and 
then  thoroughly  dried,  this  annoyance  will  be  prevented.  Still  the 
wick  must  not  be  put  up  too  high. 

(7.)  To  take  stains  out  of  Mahogany. 

Mix  spirits  of  salt  6 parts,  and  salt  of  lemons  1 part,  then  drop  a 
little  on  the  stains,  and  rub  them  until  they  disappear. 

(8.)  To  clean  Britannia  Ware. 

Britannia  ware  should  be  first  washed  with  a woolen  cloth  and 
sweet  oil,  then  washed  in  water  and  suds,  and  rubbed  with  soft  leather 
and  whiting.  Thus  treated,  it  will  retain  its  beauty  to  the  last. 

(10.)  To  clean  Looking-glasses. 

Take  a newspaper,  or  part  of  one,  according  to  the  size  of  the 
glass.  Fold  it  small,  and  dip  it  into  a basin  of  clean  cold  water  , when 
thoroughly  wet,  squeeze  it  out  in  your  hand  as  you  would  a sponge, 
and  then  rub  it  hard  all  over  the  face  of  the  glass,  taking  care  that  if 
is  not  so  wet  as  to  run  down  in  streams.  In  fact,  the  paper  must  only 
be  completely  moistened,  or  damped  all  through.  After  the  glass  has 
been  well  rubbed  with  the  wet  paper,  let  it  rest  a few  minutes  ; and 
then  go  over  it  with  a fresh  dry  newspaper  (folded  small  in  your  hand! 
till  it  looks  clear  and  bright — which  it  will  almost  immediately,  and 
with  no  further  trouble. 

This  method,  simple  as  it  is,  is  the  best  and  most  expeditious  for 
cleaning  mirrors,  and  it  will  be  found -so  on  trial — giving  it  a clear- 
ness and  polish  that  can  be  produced  by  no  other  process.  It  is  equally 
convenient,  speedy,  and  effective.  The  inside  of  window  frames  may 
be  cleaned  in  this  manner  to  look  beautifully  clear;  the  windows  be- 
ing first  washed  on  the  outside  ; also  the  glasses  of  spectacles,  &c 
The  glass  globe  of  an  astral  lamp  may  be  cleaned  with  a newspaper 
in  the  above  manner. 

(11.)  To  clean  Mahogany  and  Marble , and  to  restore  Mahogany  Varnish . 

Use  no  soap  on  them;  wash  them  in  fair  water,  and  rub  them  till 
dry  with  a clean  soft  cloth.  A little  sweet  oil,  rubbed  on  occasionally, 
gives  them  a polish.  Rub  furniture  with  a cloth  dipped  in  oil;  then 
with  a clean  cloth,  till  dry  and  polished.  Rubbing  with  sweet  oil  wiil 
restore  the  spots  from  which  the  varnish  has  been  removed.  White 
spots  on  varnished  furniture  may  be  removed,  by  rubbing  them  with  a 
warm  flannel,  dipped  in  spirits  of  turpentine.  Remove  ink  sjiots  by 


88 


housewife’s  manual. 


rubbing  them  with  a woolen  cloth,  dipped  in  the  oil  of  vitriol  and  water 
Be  careful  to  touch  only  the  spots  with  the  vitriol.  Rinse  them  with 
saleratus  water,  and  then  with  fair  water.  It  is  said,  blotting  paper 
will  extract  the  ink,  if  rolled  up,  and  rubbed  hard  on  the  spots.  Ma- 
hogany furniture  may  be  beautifully  polished  thus : — Rub  it  with  cold 
drawn  linseed  oil;  wipe  off  the  oil,  and  polish  by  rubbing  smartly  with 
a clean  dry  cloth.  And  marble  may  be  cleaned  thus  : — Pound,  very 
fine,  a little  stone  blue  with  four  ounces  of  whiting;  mix  them  with 
an  ounce  of  soda  dissolved  in  a little  water,  and  four  ounces  of  soft 
soap;  boil  all  fifteen  minutes  over  a slow  fire,  carefully  stirring  it. 
When  quite  hot,  lay  it  on  the  marble  with  a brush,  and  let  it  remain 
,alf  an  hour ; wash  it  off  with  warm  water,  flannel,  and  a scrubbing 
brush,  and  wipe  it  dry.  Some  clean  alabaster  and  all  kinds  of  mar- 
ble, by  mixing  pulverized  pumice  stone  with  verjuice,  letting  it  remain 
several  hours ; then  dipping  in  a perfectly  clean  sponge,  ancl  rubbing 
the  marble  till  clean.  Rinse  it  oif  with  fair  water,  and  rub  it  dry  with 
a clean  linen  cloth. 

(12.)  To  clean  Knives  and  Forks. 

Use  finely  powdered  Bath  brick  to  remove  rust,  and  to  polish  steel 
utensils.  Rub  knives  on  a board  with  a thick  leather  cover  over  it  fast- 
ened down  tight,  applying  a cork  dipped  in  the  powder,  and  moistened, 
if  they  are  spotted.  Do  not  wet  them,  only  wipe  them  with  a dry 
cloth.  Wipe  the  handles  with  a cloth  rather  damp,  to  make  them 
smooth  ; do  not  touch  the  blades,  as  it  will  tarnish  them.  It  will  yel- 
low ivory  handles  to  dip  them  in  hot  water.  If  yellow,  rub  them  with 
sand  paper.  If  Bath  brick  does  not  remove  rust  from  steel,  rub  the 
spots  with  sand  paper  or  emery,  or  rub  on-  sweet  oil  and  let  it  remain 
a day,  and  then  rub  it  off  with  quicklime.  Clean  thoroughly  steel 
utensils  that  are  not  in  constant  use  ; rub  them  over  with  sweet  oil, 
and  exclude  the  air  by  a wrapper  of  brown  paper,  wrapping  each 
knife  and  fork  separately. 

(13.)  To  clean  Stoves  and  Stone  Hearths. 

Put  on  varnished  stoves  several  coats  of  varnish  in  the  summer,  to 
have  it  get  hard  before  used;  Wash  them  in  warm  water,  without 
soap,  and  rub  a little  oil  on  them  occasionally.  It  will  make  them 
look  nice,  and  prevent  the  varnish  wearing  off.  Black  stoves  that 
have  never  been  varnished,  with  black  lead  and  British  lustre.  It  will 
not  answer  if  they  have  been  varnished.  Mix  them  with  cold  water 
to  a paste,  rub  it  on  the  stoves,  and  let  the  paste  remain  till  quite  dry  ; 
then  rub  the  stoves  with  a dry,  stiff,  flat  brush,  till  clean  and  polished. 
To  preserve  the  color  of  freestone  hearths,  wash  them  in  water  with- 
out any  soap ; rub  on  them,  while  damp,  pulverized  freestone  ; Jet  it  re- 
main till  dry,  and  then  rub  it  off.  If  stained,  rub  them  hard  with  a 
piece  of  freestone.  To  have  your  hearths  look  dark,  rub  them  with 
pure  soft  soap,  or  dilute  it  with  water.  Use  reddening  for  brick 
hearths,  mixed  with  thin  hot  starch  and  milk. 

(14.)  To  remove  Putty  and  Paint  from  Window-glass. 

Put  saleratus  into  hot  water,  till  very  strong  ; saturate  the  putty  or 


CAKE  OF  FURNITURE  AND  HOUSE-KEEPING  ARTICLES.  89 

paint-daub  with  it ; let  it  remain  till  nearly  dry  ; then  rub  it  off  hard 
with  a woolen  cloth.  Whiting  is  good  to  remove  it.  Saleratus  water 
is  good  to  remove  putty  while  green  on  the  glass. 

(15.)  To  Extract  Irik,  from  Floors. 

Remove  ink  from  floors,  by  scouring  them  with  sand  wet  with  water 
and  the  oil  of  vitriol,  mixed.  Then  rinse  them  with  strong  saleratus 
water. 

(16.)  To  temper  Earthenware. 

Boil  earthenware  that  is  used  for  baking,  (before  using  it,  as  it  will 
be  less  liable  to  crack,)  covering  it  with  cold  water,  and  then  heating 
it  gradually.  Let  it  remain  in  till  the  water  has  cooled. 

(17.)  To  loosen  tightly-wedged  Stopples  of  Decanters  and 
Smelling-bottles. 

Rub  a feather  dipped  in  oil  round  the  stopple,  close  to  the  mouth  of 
the  bottle  ; place  the  mouth  of  the  bottle  towards  the  fire,  about  two 
feet  from  it.  When  warm,  strike  the  bottle  lightly  on  both  sides,  with 
any  convenient  wooden  instrument  and  take  out  the  stopple.  You  may 
have  to  repeat  the  process.  By  perseverance,  you  will  ultimately  tri- 
umph, however  closely  wedged  in. 

(18.)  To  prevent  the  formation  of  a Crust  m Tea  Kettles. 

Keep  an  oyster-shell  in  your  tea  kettle.  By  attracting  the  stony 
particles  to  itself,  it  will  prevent  the  formation  of  a crust. 

(19.)  To  cleanse  Phials  and  Pie  Plates. 

Cleanse  bottles  that  have  had  medicines  in  them,  by  putting  ashes 
in  each,  immersing  them  in  cold  water,  and  then  heating  the  water 
gradually  till  it  boils.  After  boiling  an  hour,  let  them  remain  in  the 
water  till  it  is  cold.  Wash  them  in  soap  suds,  and  rinse  them  till 
clear  in  fair  water.  Pie  plates  that  have  been  long  used  for  baking, 
are  apt  to  impart  an  unpleasant  taste  on  account  of  the  rancidity  of  the 
butter  and  lard  imbibed.  Put  them  in  a brass  kettle,  with  ashes  and 
cold  water,  and  boil  them  an  hour. 

(20.)  To  renovate  Feather  Beds  and  Mattresses. 

Make  soiled  and  heavy  feather  beds  clean  and  light  thus: — Dip  a 
stiff*  brush  in  hot  soap  suds,  and  rub  them ; when  clean,  lay  them  on 
a shed,  or  in  some  clean  place,  and  let  it  rain  on  them  ; when  thor- 
oughly soaked,  let  them  dry  a week  in  the  hot  sun,  shaking  them  well, 
and  turning  them  over  daily,  and  covering  them  nightly  with  a thick 
cloth.  It  is  quite  as  well  as  to  empty  the  feathers,  and  to  wash  them 
and  the  tick  separately,  and  much  easier.  Dry  the  bed  thoroughly 
before  sleeping  on  it.  Hard  and  dirty  hair  mattresses  can  be  made 
almost  as  good  as  new,  by  ripping  them,  washing  the  ticking,  picking 
the  hair  free  from  bunches,  and  keeping  it  some  days  in  a dry,  airy 
place.  Fill  the  ticking  lightly,  when  dry,  and  tack  it  together. 

(21.)  To  clean  Bed  Ticks , however  badly  soiled 

Apply  Poland  starch,  by  rubbing  it  on  thick,  with  a wet  cloth. 


90  CHEAP  AND  WHOLESOME  DRINKS  FOR  WARM  WEATHER. 

Place  t in  the  sun.  When  dry,  rub  it  in  with  the  hands.  Repeat  it* 
if  necessary.  The  soiled  part  will  be  as  clean  as  new. 

*22.)  To  clean  Bedsteads , and  keep  them  free  of  Chintzes. 

Apply  lard. 

(23.)  Creaking  Hinges , Ironing  Board , Sheets  and  Holders , 
Mending . 

Put  soft  soap  on  the  hinges.  Keep  expressly  for  ironing,  an  i*  on- 
ing  apparatus;  cover  with  old  flannel,  and  then  with  fine  cottor,  a 
board  twenty-four  by  fourteen  inches,  as  a convenient  appendage  for 
the  ironing  of  small  articles.  Mend  clothes  before  washing,  except 
stockings. 

(24.)  To  clean  the  inside  of  a Stove . 

Introduce  the  poker,  or  some  convenient  instrument,  by  removing 
the  top  of  the  stove  or  otherwise,  and  scrape  the  slag  off*,  while  red  hot 

(25.)  A cheap  Water  Filter. 

Lay  a thick  bed  of  pounded  charcoal  on  the  bottom  of  a large  com- 
mon earthen  flower-pot,  and  over  this  lay  a bed  of  fine  sand  about  four 
inches  thick. 


TO  MAKE  CHEAP  AND  WHOLESOME  DRINKS 
FOR  WARM  WEATHER. 

(1.)  Sassafras  Mead. 

This  is  a very  pleasant,  wholesome,  and  cheap  beverage  in  warm 
weather.  Stir  gradually  with  two  quarts  of  boiling  water,  three 
pounds  and  a half  of  the  best  brown  sugar,  a pint  and  a half  of  good 
West  India  molasses,  and  a quarter  of  a pound  of  tartaric  acid.  Stir 
it  well,  and  when  cool,  strain  it  into  a large  jug  or  pan,  then  mix  in  a 
quarter  of  an  ounce  of  essence  of  sassafras.  Transfer  it  to  clear 
bottles  (it  will  fill  about  half  a dozen),  cork  it  tightly,  and  keep  it  in  a 
cool  place.  Have  ready  a box  containing  about  a quarter  of  a pound 
of  carbonate  of  soda  to  use  with  it. 

To  prepare  a glass  of  it  for  drinking,  pour  a little  of  the  mead  into 
a tumbler,  stir  into  it  a small  quantity  of  soda,  and  then  add  sufficient 
ice  water  to  half  fill  the  glass ; give  it  a stir,  and  it  will  immediately 
foam  up  to  the  top. 

(2.)  To  make  Pineappleade. 

This  is  a delightfully  refreshing  drink  in  warm  weather,  and  is 
much  used  in  the  West  Indies.  Pare  some  ripe  pineapples,  cut  them 
into  thin  slices,  then  cut  each  slice  into  small  bits,  put  them  into  a 
large  pitcher,  and  sprinkle  powdered  white  sugar  among  them : pour 
on  boiling  water  in  proportion  of  half  a pint  of  water  to  each  pineap- 
ple ; cover  the  pitcher,  stop  up  the  spout  with  a roll  of  soft  paper,  and 
let  the  pineapple  infuse  into  the  water  till  it  becomes  quite  cool,  stir- 


TO  MAKE  SWEETMEATS  AND  PRESERVES. 


9] 


ring  and  pressing  down  the  pineapple  occasionally  with  a spoon,  to 
get  out  as  much  juice  as  possible.  When  the  liquid  has  grown 
quite  cold,  set  the  pitcher  for  a while  in  ice.  Then  transfer  the  infu 
sion  to  tumblers,  add  some  more  sugar,  and  put  into  each  glass  a 
lump  of  ice.  You  may  lay  a thin  slice  of  fresh  pineapple  into  each 
tumbler  before  you  pour  out  the  infusion. 

(3.)  Broivn  Spruce  Beer . 

Pour  eight  gallons  of  water  into  a barrel,  and  then  eight  gallons 
more  boiling  hot ; add  twelve  pounds  of  molasses,  and  half  a pound  of 
.essence  of  spruce ; and  when  nearly  cool,  put  in  half  a pint  of  good 
ale  yeast.  This  must  be  well  stirred  and  well  mixed,  and  leave  the 
bung  out  two  or  three  days  ; after  wrhich  the  liquor  may  be  immedi- 
ately bottled,  well  corked  and  tied,  and  packed  in  sawdust  or  sind, 
when  it  will  be  ripe  and  fit  to  drink  in  a fortnight. 

(4.)  Cottage  Beer . 

Take  a peck  of  good  sweet  wet  bran,  and  put  it  into  ten  gallons 
of  water  with  three  handfuls  of  good  hops ; boil  the  whole  together  in 
an  iron,  brass,  or  copper  kettle,  until  the  bran  and  hops  sink  to  the 
bottom.  Then  strain  it  through  a hair  sieve,  or  a thin  sheet,  into  a 
cooler,  and  when  it  is  about  lukewarm,  add  two  quarts  of  molasses. 

As  soon  as  the  molasses  is  melted,  pour  the  whole  into  a nine  or  ten 
gallon  cask  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  yeast.  When  the  fermenta- 
tion has  subsided,  bung  up  the  cask,  and  in  four  days  it  will  be  fit 
for  use. 


TO  MAKE  SWEETMEATS  AND  PRESERVES. 

Sweetmeats  should  be  kept  in  a cool,  dry  place ; they  should  be 
properly  boiled,  and  then  they  will  not  be  likely  to  ferment ; but  they 
should  be  well  looked  to  the  first  two  months,  and  if  not  likely  to  keep, 
set  the  jar  in  the  oven  after  the  bread  comes  out,  or  on  a hot  hearth. 

As  soon  as  preserved  fruit  is  entirely  cold,  it  should  be  covered 
with  either  a carmel  cover  (for  which  I shall  give  directions,)  or  white 
paper,  cut  the  exact  size  of  the  pot  or  jar,  that  the  fruit  may  be  cov- 
ered ; then  dip  the  paper  in  a liquid,  one  part  pepperrsauce,  two  parts 
(fourth  proof)  brandy.  Then  an  entire  white  paper  tied  down  over 
the  top,  pricked  full  of  holes,  and  the  article  mentioned  that  the  pot 
contains,  and  the  year  made,  &c.  I am  thus  particular,  as  I feel  that 
those  to  whom  this  will  be  most  welcome,  will  not  have  a mother  to 
teach  these  little  et  ceteras.  Jellies  should  be  covered  in  the  same 
way. 

A pan  should  be  kept  for  preserving,  of  double  block  tin.  A bow 
handle  opposite  the  straight  one  for  safety  will  do  well ; skimmers, 
sieves,  and  spoons,  should  be  kept  on  purpose  for  sweet  things.  If 
brass  is  ever  used,  it  must  be  kept  free  from  verdigris. 

It  is  necessary  that  nice  conserves  should  be  put  into  small  jelly 
pots  or  glasses,  that  no  more  should  be  disturbed  than  what  is  re* 


housewife’s  manual. 


*h 

quired  at  the  time  wanted;  there  are  many  reasons,  which  will  soon 
appear  to  all  good  managers. 

(1.)  A Carmel  Cover  for  $weet7neats. 

Dissolve  eight  ounces  of  double  refined  sugar  in  three  or  four 
spoonfuls  of  water,  and  three  or  four  drops  of  lemon  juice  ; then  put 
into  a brass  kettle.  When  it  boils  to  be  thick,  dip  the  handle  of  a 
spoon  in  it,  and  put  that  into  a pint  basin  of  water.  Squeeze  the 
sugar  from  the  spoon  into  it,  and  so  on,  till  you  have  all  the  sugar. 
Take  a bit  out  of  the  water,  and  if  it  snaps,  and  is  brittle  when  cold, 
it  is  done  enough.  But  only  let  it  be  three  parts  cold,  then  pour  the 
water  from  the  sugar,  and  having  a copper  form  well  oiled,  run  the 
sugar  on  it,  in  the  manner  of  a maze  ; and  when  cold,  you  may  put  it 
on  the  dish  it  is  to  cover ; but  if  on  trial  the  sugar  be  not  brittle,  pour  off 
the  water,  and  return  the  sugar  into  the  kettle  and  boil  again  : it  should 
look  thick,  like  treacle,  but  of  a bright,  light,  good  color.  It  is  an  ele- 
gant cover. 

(2.)  To  Preserve  Plums  an  Elegant  Green . 

8 lbs.  of  double  refined  sugar ; 8 lbs  of  fruit,  prepared  as  below. 

Take  the  plums  whilst  a pin  will  pass  through  them,  set  them  cov- 
ered with  water,  in  which  a little  alum  has  been  dissolved,  in  a brass 
kettle  on  a hot  hearth,  to  coddle.  If  necessary,  change  the  water  ; 
they  must  be  a beautiful  grass-green  ; then  if  you  prefer,  peel  them 
and  coddle  again ; take  eight  pounds  of  this  fruit  to  the  above  sugar 
after  it  has  been  dissolved  in  one  quart  of  water  and  nicely  skimmed. 
Then  set  the  whole  on  the  fire  to  boil,  until  clear,  slowly,  skimming 
them  often,  and  they  will  be  very  green;  put  them  up* in  glasses,  as 
before  directed,  for  use.  Cherries,  apricots,  or  grapes,  can  be  done  in 
this  way ; they  look  fine. 

(3.)  To  Preserve  Cherries . 

4 lbs  of  fruit ; 3 lbs.  of  sugar. 

Take  one  quart  of  water,  melt  some  sugar  in,  and  boil,  tnen  the  rest, 
boil  and  skim,  then  put  in  the  cherries,  boil  softly  but  steadily,  take  ofi 
the  scum  as  it  rises  ; and  take  them  off  two  or  three  times  and  shake 
them,  and  put  them  on  again ; then  let  them  boil  fast.  When  the 
fruit  looks  clear,  take  it  out  with  a skimmer,  and  boil  the  syrup  until 
it  will  not  spread  on  a China  plate  ; then  return  the  fruit,  and  let  it 
cool ; then  pot  for  use. 

(4.)  To  Keep  Damsons. 

Take  damsons  when  they  are  first  ripe,  pick  them  off  carefully,  wipe 
them  clean,  put  them  in  snuff  bottles,  stop  them  up  with  nice  new 
corks,  that  neither  air  nor  water  can  penetrate.  Set  the  bottles  in  a 
kettle  of  cold  water,  put  over  the  fire,  let  them  heat  slowly,  then  lei 
them  boil  slowly  for  half  an  hour,  set  off  to  cool,  let  the  bottles  remain 
in  the  water  until  cold,  then  rosin  the  corks,  and  set  them  in  a cool 
cellar ; they  will  keep  one  year  nice,  if  done  right.  But  they  must  be 
used  as  soon  as  opened.  It  will  answer  as  well  to  place  the  bottler 


TO  MAKE  SWEETMEATS  AND  PRESERVES.  I? 

in  a good  brick  oven  after  the  bread  is  removed.  All  kinds  of  frui 
can  be  preserved  in  the  same  way,  placed  with  the  mouth  downwards, 
to  prevent  fermentation. 

(5.)  To  Preserve  Quinces . 

Take  a peck  of  the  finest  golden  quinces,  put  them  into  a bell-metal 
kettle,  cover  with  cold  water,  put  over  the  fire,  and  boil  until  done  soft, 
then  take  them  out  with  a fork  into  an  earthen  dish  ; when  sufficiently 
cool  to  handle,  take  off  the  skin,  cut  open  on  one  side  and  take  out  the 
core,  keeping  them  as  whole  as  possible.  Take  their  weight  in  double 
refined  sugar,  put  it  with  a quart  of  water  into  the  kettle,  let  it  boil, 
and  skim  until  very  clear,  then  put  in  your  quinces ; two  oranges  cut 
up  thin  and  put  with  the  fruit,  is  an  improvement.  Let  them  boil  in 
the  syrup  half  an  hour,  then  with  your  fruit-ladle  take  out  the  fruit, 
and  boil  the  juice  sufficiently,  then  pour  it  over  the  fruit. 

(6.)  To  Preserve  Peaches. 

10  lbs.  of  nicely  peeled  fruit ; 2 lemons,  fresh ; 10  lbs.  of  loaf  sugar. 

The  white  clingstone  is  the  nicest ; peel  and  drop  into  a pan  of 
water,  cut  up  the  lemons,  break  the  sugar  slightly,  put  into  a well 
tinned  kettle  (brass  will  do  if  nicely  cleaned),  with  one  quart  of  water 
and  the  lemons,  let  it  scald,  and  skim,  and  having  the  required  quan- 
tity of  peaches  in  a nice  stone  jar,  pour  the  syrup  over,  let  it  stand 
over  night,  then  put  all  into  the  preserving  kettle  and  boil  slowly,  un- 
til the  fruit  looks  clear  ; take  out  the  peaches,  and  boil  down  the  syrup 
to  a proper  consistence,  and  pour  over  the  fruit. 

(7.)  To  Preserve  Magnum  Bonum  Plums. 

12  lbs.  of  plums  ; 12  lbs.  of  loaf  sugar;  2 oranges. 

Take  two  pounds  of  the  sugar,  and  make  a weak  syrup,  pour  it  boil- 
ing upon  the  fruit,  let  it  remain  over  night,  closely  covered ; then,  if 
preferred,  skin  them,  and  slice  up  the  oranges  nicely,  dissolve  the  rest 
of  the  sugar  by  taking  the  large  cakes  and  dip  in  water  quickly,  and 
instantly  brought  out.  If  the  plums  are  not  peeled,  they  must  be 
nicely  drained  from  the  first  syrup,  and  the  skin  pricked  with  a needle. 
Do  them  gently,  until  they  look  clear,  and  the  syrup  adheres  to  them. 
Put  them  one  by  one  into  small  pots,  and  pour  the  liquor  over.  These 
plums  will  ferment  if  not  boiled  in  two  syrups. 

(8.)  To  Preserve  Barberries. 

6 lbs.  of  barberries  ; 6 lbs.  of  sugar. 

Put  the  sugar  and  fruit  into  a jar,  and  place  the  jar  in  a kettle  of 
ooiling  water ; let  it  boil  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved,  and  the  fruit  soft ; 
let  them  remain  all  night.  Next  day  put  them  into  a preserving-pan, 
and  boil  them  fifteen  minutes ; then  pot,  as  soon  as  cool.  The  next 
day  cover  as  directed,  tie  close,  and  set  by. 

(9.)  Raspberry  Jam . 

6 lbs.  of  nicely  picked  fruit ; 6 lbs.  of  loaf  sugar. 

Put  the  fruit  into  a nice  kettle  over  a quick  fire,  and  stir  constantly, 


94 


housewife’s  MANUAL. 


until  the  juice  is  nearly  wasted,  then  add  the -sugar,  and  simmer  to  a 
fine  jam.  In  this  way  the  jam  is  greatly  superior  to  that  which  is 
made  by  putting  the  sugar  in  first. 

Another  way. 

Put  the  fruit  in  a jar  into  a kettle  of  boiling  water  (or  cold,  and  ley 
it  boil)  or  set  the  jar  on  a hot  hearth  till  the  juice  will  run  from  it, 
then  take  one  gill  from  every  pound  of  fruit.  Boil  and  bruise  it  half  ar 
hour,  then  put  in  the  weight  of  the  fruit  in  sugar,  and  the  same  quan- 
tity of  currant  juice,  boil  it  ?o  a strong  jelly.  The  raspberry  juice  may 
be  boiled  with  its  weight  in  sugar  to  a jelly,  to  make  ice  cream. 

(10.)  To  Clarify  Sugar . 

Take  half  a pint  of  water  to  one  pound  of  loaf  sugar,  set  it  over  the 
fire  to  dissolve  ; to  twelve  pounds  of  sugar  thus  prepared,  beat  up  an 
egg  very  well,  put  in  when  cold,  and,  as  it  boils  up,  check  it  with  a lit- 
tle cold  water.  The  second  time  boiling,  set  it  away  to  cool.  In  a 
quarter  of  an  hour,  skim  the  top,  and  turn  the  syrup  off  quickly,  leav- 
ing the  sediment  which  will  collect  at  the  bottom. 

(11.)  Currant  JeUy. 

4 quarts  of  juice ; 8 lbs.  of  refined  sugar. 

The  currants  should  be  used  as  soon  as  of  a light  red  j put  them, 
stem  and  all,  into  a jar,  place  that  in  boiling  water,  cook,  then  squeeze 
the  juice,  and  to  every  quart  put  two  pounds  of  sugar;  boil  together 
fifteen  minutes,  then  put  into  glasses. 

(12.)  Bread  Cheese  Cake. 

1 nutmeg'";  1-2  lb.  of  currants;  1 pint  of  cream;  1 spoonful  of 
rose-water;  8 eggs  ; 1 penny  loaf  of  bread  ; 1-2  lb.  of  butter. 

Scald  the  cream,  slice  the  bread  thin  as  possible,  and  pour  the  cream 
boiling  on  to  it ; let  it  stand  two  hours.  Beat  together  the  eggs,  but- 
ter, and  grated  nutmegs,  and  rose-water,  add  the  cream,  beat  well,  and 
oake  in  patty-pans  on  a raised  crust. 

(13.)  Almond  Custards. 

4 oz.  of  blanched  almonds;  4 yolks  of  eggs;  1 pint  of  cream;  2 
spoonfuls  of  sugar ; 2 spoonfuls  of  rose-water. 

Beat  the  almonds  fine  with  the  rose-water  ; beat  the  yolks  and  sugar 
together,  then  add  to  the  other  ingredients,  stir  them  well  together  unti'. 
it  becomes  thick,  then  pour  it  into  cups. 

(14.)  Cranberry  Jelly. 

2 crz.  or  isinglass ; 1 lb.  of  double  refined  sugar ; 3 pints  of  well 
strained  cranberry  juice. 

Make  a strong  jelly  of  the  isinglass,  then  add  the  sugar  and  cran- 
berry juice,  boil  up,  strain  it  into  shape.  It  is  very  fine.  Or  put  the 
cranberries  with  calf’s  feet,  or  pork  jplly. 


THE  mjKSE’s  MANUAL. 


Off 

(15.)  Apple  Marmalade. 

10  lbs.  of  apples ; 10  lbs.  of  lump  sugar. 

Peel  pippins  (or  any  fine  apppie  to  cook),  drop  in  water  as  they  are 
done ; then  scald  until  they  will  pulp  from  the  core.  After  being 
nicely  done,  take  equal  weight  of  sugar  in  large  lumps,  just  dip  them 
in  water,  and  boiling  it  until  it  be  well  skimmed,  and  is  a thick  syrup  , 
then  add  the  pulp,  and  simmer  it  on  a quick  fire  fifteen  minutes.  Keep 
it  in  jelly  pots. 

(16.)  Apple  Jelly . 

20  golden  pippins ; sugar ; 1 lemon. 

Peel  and  core  the  apples,  put  into  a preserving-kettle  with  one  pint 
and  a half  of  water,  stew  until  tender  ; then  strain  the  liquor  through 
a colander.  To  every  pint,  put  a pound  of  fine  sugar,  add  grated 
orange  or  lemon,  then  boil  to  a jelly. 

Another . — Prepare  the  apples  as  above  ; have  ready  half  an  ounce 
of  isinglass  boiled  in  half  a pint  of  water  to  a jelly.  Put  this  to  the 
apple-water,  and  apple  as  strained  through  a coarse  sieve  ; add  sugar, 
a little  lemon  juice  and  peel.  Boil  up  all  together,  and  put  into  a 
dish.  Take  out  the  peel. 

(17.)  Biscuit  of  Fruit. 

To  the  pulps  of  any  scalded  fruit  put  an  equal  weight  of  refined 
and  sifted  sugar,  beat  it  two  hours,  then  put  it  into  little  white  paper 
forms ; dry  in  a cool  oven,  turn  the  next  day,  and,  in  two  or  three 
days,  box  them. 


THE  NURSE’S  MANUAL. 

The  head  of  every  family  should  become  familiar  with  the  readiest 
methods  of  curing  at  least  the  ordinary  complaints.  I would  by  no 
means  attempt  to  make  “ every  man  his  own  doctor,55  for  when  seri- 
ous disease  threatens,  it  is  the  first  duty  of  every  one  to  call  in  an  ex- 
perienced physician  ; but  there  are  a countless  number  of  cases  where 
a faithful  prescription  will  save  many  a doctor’s  fee,  and  not  unfre- 
quently  years  of  suffering  or  even  a valuable  life. 

I present  now  a few  recipes,  all  of  which  I have  tested  on  myself 
and  others,  and  know  to  be  correct.  Still,  what  will  cure  one  person, 
will  not  always  cure  another,  as  people’s  idiosyncracies  of  constitu- 
tion differ.  In  many  cases,  therefore,  I have  given  more  than  one  pre- 
scription for  the  same  complaint.  If  one  will  not  answer,  let  another 
be  tried.  If  they  will  do  no  good,  I am  sure  they  will  do  no  harm. 

It  is  hardly  necessary  to  state,  perhaps,  that  all  the  articles  ot  a 
medicinal  character  here  mentioned  can  readily  be  procured  either  at 
the  drug  or  herb  stores.  v 

(1.)'  A sure  remedy  for  Bummer  Complaint. 

Put  three-fourths  of  a teaspoonful  of  powdered  rhubarb,  and  one 


I 


THE  NUKSE^S  MANUAL, 

teaspoonful  of  magnesia  into  a tea-cup,  and  pour  it  full  of  boiling 
water ; let  it  stand  till  it  is  cool,  and  then  pour  the  liquid  off,  to  which 
add  two  teaspoonfuls  of  good  brandy,  and  sweeten  well  with  loaf  sugar; 
give  a child  of  from  one  to  three  years  old  a teaspoonful  five  or  six 
times  a day.  For  food,  take  a double  handful  of  flour,  tie  it  up  in  a 
cloth,  and  boil  it  three  hours ; when  cold,  take  off  the  outer  covering 
of  paste,  and  grate  the  hard  white  substance  in  a sufficient  quantity 
10  thicken  with  milk,  boil  it  a minute  or  two,  stir  it  with  a stick  of 
cinnamon,  and  sweeten  it.  Both  the  medicine  and  the  food  are  quite 
oalatable,  and  together  rarely  fail  of  a perfect  cure. 

(2.)  A simple  remedy  for  the  Summer  Complaint. 

I have  often  seen  quite  severe  attacks  of  this  disease,  attended  with 
severe  griping  in  the  bowels,  immediately  subdued  by  taking  six  drops 
of  the  essence  of  spearmint  on  a little  sugar.  This  is  a very  easily 
applied  remedy,  and  in  very  many  cases,  particularly  with  women  and 
children,  (children  should  take  but  two  drops,  if  less  than  five  years 
of  age,  and  delicate  women  four  drops,)  will  be  found  a perfect  cure. 
If  nothing  better,  it  is  very  useful  to  check  the  complaint  when  it 
comes  on  one,  as  it  often  does,  at  a time  when  it  is  inconvenient  to 
take  other  medicines ; for  instance,  in  traveling.  The  dose  can  be 
repeated  every  six  hours  if  found  necessary. 

(3.)  Cure  for  Run-rounds . 

That  disease  of  the  finger  or  toe  which  is  commonly  called  a run- 
round,  may  be  easily  cured  by  a remedy  so  simple,  that  persons  who 
have  not  tried  it  are  generally  incredulous  as  to  its  efficacy.  The  first 
symptoms  of  the  complaint  are  heat,  pain,  swelling,  and  redness  at  the 
top  of  the  nail.  The  inflammation,  if  not  checked  very  soon,  goes 
round  the  whole  of  the  nail,  causing  intense  pain,  accompanied  by  a 
gathering  of  yellow  matter,  which,  as  soon  as  it  appears,  should  be 
punctured  or  opened  by  a needle,  not  waiting  till  it  has  extended  its 
progress,  otherwise  the  finger  will  become  excessively  sore,  and  the 
nail  will  eventually  come  off.  All  this  may  be  prevented  at  once,  if,  as 
soon  as  the  swelling  and  inflammation  begin,  the  finger  is  laid  flat  on 
the  table,  and  the  nail  is  scratched  all  over  (first  lengthwise,  and  then, 
crosswise)  with  the  sharp  point  of  a pin  or  scissors,  or  of  a pen-knife, 
so  as  to  scratch  off  the  whole  surface  of  the  nail,  leaving  it  rough  and 
white.  This  little  operation  will  not  give  the  slightest  pain,  and  we 
have  never  known  it  fail  in  stopping  the  progress  of  the  disease ; all 
symptoms  of  which  will  disappear  by  next  day.  This  may  be  relied 
on  as  a positive  cure,  if  done  before  matter  begins  to  appear,  and  even 
then  it  will  succeed  if  the  yellow  part  of  the  gathering  be  first  punc- 
tured with  a needle. 

(4.)  A good  remedy  for  the  Toothache. 

Take  kreosote  one  part,  spirit  of  wine  ten  parts.  Mix  and  apply  by 
means  of  a small  piece  of  lint.  This  often  affords  immediate  relief! 


THE  NURSE  S MANUAL. 


91 


(5.)  Cure  for  Corns. 

Pare  them  down  to  the  quick,  but  not  so  far  as  to  make  them  bleed, 
then  apply,  on  going  to  bed,  the  inner  part  of  an  onion  mashed  fine. 
A very  few  applications  will  soon  cause  a complete  cure. 

(6.)  To  remove  a Wart. 

Touch  it  with  a clean  pen  dipped  in  a little  aquafortis.  By  repeat- 
ing this  daily,  the  wart  will  crumble  and  come  off  without  pain  or 
trouble.  It  is  an  excellent  and  safe  remedy  for  hard,  horny,  callous, 
whitish  warts;  but  if  the  wart  be  red,  fleshy,  and  sore  to  the  touch,  do 
not  apply  the  aquafortis. 

(7.)  Ringworms. 

There  is  no  better  remedy  than  mercurial  ointment  rubbed  on  at 
night,  and  not  washed  off  till  morning.  It  causes  no  pain,  and  a few 
applications  of  it  will  effect  a cure. 

(8.)  Cure  for  Quinsy. 

Simmer  hops  in  vinegar  until  their  strength  is  extracted,  strain  the 
liquid,  sweeten  it  with  sugar,  and  give  it  frequently  to  the  patient  until 
relieved.  This  is  an  almost  infallible  remedy. 

(9.)  To  cure  the  Consumption. 

1 do  not  give  the  following  as  an  effectual  remedy  for  a deep  seated 
consumption,  but  that  it  will  cure  many  most  obstinate  cases  I well 
know.  I have  witne  ssed  its  good  effects  in  numberless  instances. 
Live  temperately — avoid  spirituous  liquors — wear  flannel  next  the 
skin — and  take,  every  morning,  half  a pint  of  new  milk  mixed  with  a 
wineglass  full  of  expressed  juice  of  green  hoarhound;  and  if  you  are 
not  too  far  gone,  a cure  is  certain. 

(10.)  To  make  Lozenges  that  will  cure  the  Heart-hum, 

Take  prepared  chalk  four  ounces,  crab’s  eyes  prepared,  two  ounces, 
bole  ammoniac  one  ounce — make  into  a paste  with  dissolved  gum 
arabic.  When  held  in  the  mouth  till  they  dissolve,  they  will  afford 
sensible  relief. 

(11.)  Spitting  of  Blood. 

Take  two  spoonfuls  of  the  juice  of  nettles  at  night,  or  take  three 
spoonfuls  of  sage  juice  in  a little  honey.  This  presently  stops  either 
spitting  or  vomiting  blood ; or  twenty  grains  of  alum  in  water  every 
two  hours. 

(12.)  Cure  for  a Cough. 

This  is  a complaint  which  admits  of  a variety  of  remedies.  Here 
follows  a number  of  recipes,  all  of  which  I know  to  be  good.  If  one 
does  not  cure,  try  another.  What  will  cure  one  person  will  not  al- 
ways cure  another.  1.  Roast  a large  lemon  very  carefully  without 
burning  ; when  it  is  thoroughly  hot,  cut  and  squeeze  it  into  a cup  upon 
three  ounces  of  sugar-candy  finely  powdered  ; take  a spoonful  when- 
ever your  cough  troubles  you.  It  is  easy  to  be  obtained,  pleasant  ta 
5 


98 


THE  NURSE’S  MANUAL. 


take,  and  in  very  many  instances  will  prove  a perfect  cure.  2.  Take 
two  ounces  of  syrup  of  poppies,  as  much  conserve  of  red  roses  ; mix, 
and  take  one  spoonful  for  three  nights  when  going  to  bed.  3.  Make 
a strong  tea  of  alehoof,  sweeten  it  with  sugar-candy,  pour  this  upon  a 
white  toast  well  rubbed  with  nutmeg,  and  drink  it  first  and  last.  4.  For 
a Cough  with  Hoarseness. — Syrup  of  jujubes  and  olthea,  of  each  two 
ounces,  lohock  savans  one  ounce,  saffron  and  water  flag  powdered,  of 
each  a scruple ; lick  it  off  a liquorice  stick  when  you  cough.  5.  For 
a Consumptive  Cough. — Take  half  a pound  of  double  refined  sugar 
finely  beat  and  sifted,  wet  this  with  an  orange,  water  and  boil  it  to  a 
candy,  then  stir  in  an  ounce  of  cassia  earth  powdered,  and  use  it  ai 
ofher  candy. 

(13.)  To  cure  a Cold  with  a Cough . 

The  editor  of  the  Baltimore  Farmer  and  Gardener  says  the  best  rem 
edy  he  ever  tried  in  his  family  for  a cough  or  eold,  is  a decoction  of  the 
leaves  of  the  pine  tree,  sweetened  with  loaf  sugar,  to  be  freely  drank 
warm  when  going  to  bed  at  night,  and  cold  through  the  day.  It  is  a 
certain  cure  in  a short  time. 

(14.)  A certain  cure  for  Colds. 

Take  a large  teaspoonful  of  flax-seed  with  half  an  ounce  of  extract 
of  liquorice,  and  a quarter  of  a pound  of  sun-dried  raisins.  Put  it 
into  two  quarts  of  soft  water,  and  let  it  simmer  over  a slow  fire  till  it 
is  reduced  to  one ; then  add  to  it  a quarter  of  a pound  of  brown  sugar 
candy,  pounded,  a tablespoonful  of  white  wine  vinegar,  or  lemon  juice. 
N.  B.  The  vinegar  is  best  to  be  added  only  to  that  quantity  you  are 
going  immediately  to  take ; for  if  it  be  put  into  the  whole,  it  is  liable 
in  a little  time  to  grow  flat.  Drink  a half  a pint  on  going  to  bed,  and 
take  a little  when  the  cough  is  troublesome. 

This  recipe  generally  cures  the  worst  of  colds  in  two  or  three  days, 
and  if  taken  in  time  may  be  said  to  be  almost  an  infallible  remedy.  It 
is  a sovereign  balsamic  cordial  for  the  lungs,  without  the  opening  qual- 
ities which  engender  fresh  colds  on  going  out.  I have  known  it  to 
cure  colds  that  have  almost  settled  into  consumption,  in  three  weeks. 

(15.)  To  prevent  the  Nails  growing  down  into  the  Toes . 

This  is  a very  troublesome,  and  sometimes  dangerous  thing,  for  I 
know  an  instance  of  a toe’s  having  to  be'  amputated  in  consequence. 
But  the  cure  is  very  simple.  Take  a sharp  pointed  knife,  and  cut  a 
little  furrow  all  along  the  top  of  the  nail  lengthwise.  As  it  fills  up, 
scrape  it  out  again.  This  will  cause  the  nail  to  contract  at  the  top, 
and  so  loosen  its  hold  from  the  flesh.  Persevere  until  the  difficulty  is 
entirely  overcome. 

(16.)  A sure  cure  for  the  Barber's  Itch . 

Having  in  numberless  instances  seen  the  good  effects  of  the  follow- 
ing prescription,  I can  certify  to  its  being  a perfect  remedy.  Dilute 
corrosive  sublimate  with  the  oil  of  almonds,  apply  it  to  the  face  occa- 
sionally, and  in  a few  days  a cure  will  be  effected. 


THE  NURSE’S  MANUAL. 


99 


(17.)  For  Burns  and  Scalds . 

Mix  in  a bottle  three  ounces  of  olive  oil,  and  four  ounces  of  lime 
water.  Apply  the  mixture  to  the  part  burned,  five  or  six  times  a day 
with  a feather.  Linsded  oil  is  equally  as  good  as  olive  oil. 

Another . — Spread  clarified  honey  upon  a linen  rag,  and  apply  it  to 
the  burn  immediately,  and  it  will  relieve  the  pain  instantly,  and  heal  the 
sore  in  a very  short  time. 

(18.)  To  slop  Diarrhoea . 

Take  half  a pint  of  brandy  and  stir  it  with  an  iron  red  hot,  previ- 
ously adding  loaf  sugar  sufficient  to  make  it  agreeably  sweet.  A 
spoonful  or  two,  or  even  more,  to  be  taken  as  required.  I have  known 
this  repeatedly  to  cure  this  disease  in  its  very  worst  stages. 

(19.)  To  apply  an  Eye  Stone . 

Eye- stones  are  frequently  used  to  extract  matter,  railroad  sparks, 
and  other  extraneous  substances  from  the  eye.  They  are  to  be  pro- 
cured from  the  apothecary’s.  They  cost  but  two  or  three  cents  apiece, 
and  it  is  well  to  get  several,  that  if  one  does  not  succeed,  you  may 
try  another.  To  give  an  eye-stone  activity,  lay  it  for  about  five  min- 
utes in  a saucer  of  vinegar  and  water,  and  if  it  be  a good  one,  it  will 
soon  begin  to  move  or  swim  round  in  the  liquid.  Then  wipe  it  dry,  and 
let  it  be  inserted  under  the  eyelid,  binding  the  eye  closely  with  a hand- 
kerchief. The  eye-stone  will  make  the  circutit  of  the  eye,  and  take 
out  the  mote,  which,  when  the  eye-stone  finally  drops  out,  it  will  bring 
with  it. 

The  first  thing  to  be  done,  when  a mote  or  spark  gets  into  your  eye, 
is  to  pull  down  the  lower  part  of  the  eyelid,  and  with  a handkerchief 
in  your  hand  blow  your  nose  violently  at  the  same  moment.  This 
will  frequently  expel  the  mote  without  further  trouble.  A mote  will, 
in  many  cases,  come  out  of  itself,  by  immediately  holding  your  eye 
wide  open  in  a cup  or  glass  filled  to  the  brim  with  clear  cold  water. 
Or  take  a small  pin,  and  wrapping  the  head  in  the  corner  of  a soft 
cambric  handkerchief,  sweep  carefully  round  the  eye  with  it,  under 
the  lid,  above  and  below.  This  should  be  done  with  a firm  and  steady 
hand.  Another  way  is  to  take  a bristle  from  a brush,  and  first  tying 
the  ends  together  with  a bit  of  thread,  so  as  to  form  a loop,  sweep 
round  the  eye  with  it,  so  that  the  loop  may  catch  the  mote  and  bring 
it  out.  A particle  of  iron  or  steel  has,  we  know,  been  extracted  from 
the  eye  by  holding  near  it  a powerful  magnet. 

(20.)  Ointment  for  Sore  Eyelids. 

Sedigated  red  precipitate  one  part,  spermaceti  ointment  twenty-five 
parts.  Mix  and  apply  with  the  tip  of  the  finger  on  going  to  bed ; or, 

Another. — Apply  balsam  of  sugar ; or  apply  butter  of,  wax  which 
speedily  heals  them. 

(21.)  Cure  for  the  Tetter. 

Obtain  at  a druggist’s  an  ounce  of  sulphuret  of  potash.  Be  care- 
ful to  ask  for  this  article  precisely.  Put  the  sulphuret  into  a large 


100 


THE  NURSE’S  MANUAL. 


glass  jar,  and  pour  on  it  a quart  of  cold  soft  water.  Stop  it  tightly, 
and  leave  it  to  dissolve.  It  may  be  more  convenient,  afterwards,  to 
transfer  it  to  smaller  bottles.  Care  must  be  taken  to  keep  it  closely 
corked.  To  use  it,  pour  a little  into  a cup,  and  dipping  in  it  a soft 
sponge,  bathe  the  eruption  with  it  five  or  six  times  a day.  Persist, 
and,  in  most  cases,  it  will  effect  a cure.  There  is  indeed  no  better 
remedy.  Should  the  tetter  re-appear  in  cold  weather,  immediately  ap- 
ply this  solution,  and  it  will  again  be  found  more  efficacious.  A bath 
of  sulphuret  of  potash,  made  as  above,  and  frequently  repeated,  has 
cured  the  tetter  in  a child  after  it  had  spread  all  over  the  body. 

(22.)  A cure  for  the  Rheumatism . 

I have  known  the  following  prescription  to  cure  the  rheumatism  in 
its  worst  stages,  and  in  a very  short  time.  Take  one  pint  of  the  very 
best  brandy,  and  add  to  it  one  ounce  of  the  gum  of  guiacum  powdered 
fine,  take  as  much  of  it  at  a time  as  you  can  bear,  and  take  clear. 
Repeat  the  dose  till  a cure  is  effected. 

(23.)  Relief  for  a sprained  Ankle . 

Wash  the  ankle  frequently  with  cold  salt  and  water , which  is  far 
better  than  warm  vinegar  or  decoctions  of  herbs.  Keep  your  foot  as 
cold  as  possible  to  prevent  inflammation,  and  sit  with  it  elevated  on  a 
cushion.  Live  09  very  low  diet,  and  take  every  day  some  cooling 
medicine.  By  obeying  these  directions  only,  a sprained  ankle  has 
been  cured  in  a few  days. 

(24.)  Bathing  the  Feet . 

In  bathing  the  feet  of  a sick  person,  use  at  the  beginning  tepid  or 
iuke-warm  water.  Have  ready  in  a tea-kettle  or  a covered  pitcher 
some  hot  water,  of  which  poj#.in  a little  at  intervals,  so  as  gradually 
to  increase  the  temperature  of  the  foot-bath,  till  it  becomes  as  warm  as 
it  can  be  borne  with  comfort ; after  which  the  feet  should  be  taken  out 
before  the  water  cools.  This  is  a much  better  way  than  to  put  them 
at  first  into  very  warm  water,  letting  it  grow  cool  before  they  are 
taken  out.  Clean  stockings,  well  warmed,  should  be  ready  to  put  on 
the  feet  as  soon  as  they  are  out  of  the  water,  and  have  been  rubbed 
dry  with  a flannel. 

(25.)  A mild  Puke . 

For  a grown  person,  dissolve  20  grains  of  ipecachuanha  in  six 
spoonfuls  of  warm  water ; give  a spoonful  every  ten  minutes  until 
it  operates. 

(26.)  To  prevent  swelling  from  a Bruise. 

Apply,  at  once,  a cloth  five  or  six-fold  in  thickness  dipped  in  cold 
water,  and  when  it  grows  warm,  renew  the  wetting. 

(27.)  To  cure  the  Cramp . 

This  involuntary  contraction  of  the  muscles,  attended  with  a con- 
vulsive effort  of  the  neck,  arms,  and  legs,  as  well  as  a violent,  though 
transi^ry  pain,  is  often  the  portion  of  the  sedentary,  the  aged  and 


THE  NURSE’S  MANUAL. 


101 


Infirm.  A variety  of  remedies  have  been  tried  with  occasional  suc- 
cess. Sometimes  a garter,  applied  tightly  round  the  part  affected, 
removes  the  complaint ; but  when  it  is  more  obstinate,  a heated  brick, 
wrapped  in  a flannel  bag,  may  be  placed  at  the  foot  of  the  bed,  against 
which  the  person  afflicted  may  place  his  feet,  and  as  the  brick  will 
remain  warm  the  whole  night,  a return  will  thus  be  prevented.  No 
remedy,  however,  is  equal  to  that  of  diligent  and  persevering  friction  ; 
which,  while  it  restores  the  free  circulation  of  the  blood  in  the  con- 
tracted part,  is  more  simple,  expeditious,  and  safe  in  its  effects.  If 
cramp  attacks  the  interior  organs,  as  the  stomach  or  bowels,  it  is  always 
attended  with  danger,  as  frequent  returns  of  it  may  occasion  death. 
Medicine  may  relieve , but  cannot  cure ; we  therefore  advise  all  who 
are  liable  to  be  afflicted  in  this  way,  to  adopt  a strictly  temperate  and 
regular  mode  of  living — to  abstain  rigorously  from  all  spirituous  and 
fermented  liquors — to  shun  inundating  their  stomachs  twice  or  thrice 
a day  with  hot  tea — and  to  avoid  smoked,  salted,  and  pickled  provisions, 
as  well  as  fat,  rancid,  and  flatulent  dishes,  which  require  a vigorous 
digestion ; in  short,  thus  avoiding  both  the  predisposing  and  exciting 
causes — the  latter  of  which  is  generally  found  in  an  irritable  temper, 
indulgence  in  fits  of  anger,  and  other  depressing  passions — which  gen- 
erally relaxing  the  animal  fibre,  it  again  becomes  contracted,  and  a 
paroxysm  of  the  cramp  is  the  inevitable  consequence.  Remedies  for 
convulsions  and  spasm  are  generally  good  for  the  cramp. 

(28.)  To  purify  the  atmosphere  of  a Sick  Room. 

Keep  always  on  the  shelf  of  the  washing-stand,  or  on  the  mantle- 
piece  or  table,  or  in  a corner  of  the  floor,  a saucer  or  small  bread-pan, 
or  a shallow  mug  filled  with  a solution  of  chloride  of  lime  in  cold 
water,  stirring  it  up  frequently.  The  proportion  may  be  about  a table- 
spoonful of  the  powder  to  half  a pint  .^Jjwater.  Renew  it  every  two 
or  three  days.  If  the  room  be  large,  place  in  it  more  than  one  vessel 
of  the  chloride  of  lime.  In  stirring  it,  any  unpleasant  odor  will  be 
immediately  dispelled. 

On  going  to  sea,  it  is  well  to  take  with  you  one  or  more  quart  bot- 
tles of  this  solution,  to  sprinkle  occasionally  about  your  state-room. 

(29.)  For  Constipation  of  the  Bowels. 

This  is  One  of  the  most  troublesome  of  all  complaints,  and  if  allowed 
to  become  confirmed,  often  leads  to  most  serious  consequences.  It 
can  never  be  cured  by  pills  or  other  medicines  taken  into  the  stomach. 
On  the  contrary,  the  tendency  of  these  things  is  inevitably  to  make  it 
worse.  The  only  permanent  cure  is  a proper  system  of  diet  and  reg- 
imen, of  which  I shall  speak  hereafter.  But  if  not  cured,  all  danger- 
ous consequences  may  be  avoided,  and  immediate  relief  may  be  ob- 
tained, by  using  injections.  The  best  instrument  for  this  purpose  is 
the  common  syringe,  which  costs  but  a few  shillings.  There  is  a 
machine  sold  by  the  druggists,  which  is  complicated,  soon  gets  out  ol 
order,  and  is  troublesome  to  keep  it  clean,  and  besides,  ia  quite  expen- 
sive. For  injections,  pure  water  in  many  cases  will  answer.  Throw 
up  as  much  as  to  make  the  stomach  feel  a little  uncomfortable,  and  if 


102 


" THE  NtESE’s  MANUAL. 


one  injection  does  not  answer,  try  another,  and  even  a third.  But 
there  are  many  cases  in  which  there  is  something  required  to  stimu^ 
late  and  relax  the  system,  and  for  this  purpose,  nothing  is  superior  to 
the  prescription  below.  I should  not  recommend  its  constant  use  if  it 
can  be  avoided.  Still,  no  bad  effects  need  be  apprehended  from  it,  for, 
upon  the  whole,  it  has  a very  soothing  and  strengthening  tendency ; 
it  is  a very  excellent  remedy  to  be  used  in  case  of  sudden  attacks  of 
sickness.  The  bowels  are,  in  this  way,  thoroughly  emptied  in  a few 
minutes.  It  will  tend  at  first  to  weaken  the  system  slightly,  but  this 
soon  passes  off ; however,  to  avoid  this  altogether,  the  quantity  of 
lobelia  and  Cayenne  may  be  reduced,  as,  to  make  it  more  powerful, 
they  should  be  increased. 

Recipe. — Take  one  ounce  fine  bayberry,  one  and  a half  ounce  of 
Cayenne  pepper,  one  third  of  an  ounce  of  pulverized  lobelia,  and  one 
quarter  of  an  ounce  of  gum  myrrh  pulverized ; mix  them  well  together. 
For  a common  dose,  take  about  two  teaspoonfuls  or  more  as  it  is 
needed,  in  half  a pint  or  so  of  warm  water. 

(30.)  To  prevent  Nightmare, 

Avoid  heavy  suppers,  and  on  going  to  bed  take  the  following  mix- 
ture. Sal-volatile  twenty  drops,  tincture  of  ginger  two  drachms. 

(31.)  Cure  for  Excoriated  Nostrils. 

If,  after  a severe  cold  in  the  head,  the  inside  of  the  nostrils  continue 
very  sore  and  inflamed,  (as  is  frequently  the  case,)  rub  them  lightly 
with  a little  kreosote  ointment,  applied  to  the  interior  of  the  nose  with 
your  finger.  Do  this  at  night,  and  several  times  during  the  day.  It 
will  very  soon  effect  a cure,  often  in  twenty-four  hours. 

(32.)  To  cure  the  Flux . 

Take  a quantity  of  water-cresses,  and  boil  them  in  clear  water  for 
fifteen  minutes ; strain  them  off,  and  drink  half  a pint  of  the  decoction 
now  and  then,  about  milk-warm. 

(33.)  To  cure  the  Hiccough. 

A single  drop  of  chemical  oil  of  cinnamon  dropped  on  a piece  of 
lump  sugar,  let  it  dissolve  in  the  mouth  leisurely. 

(34.)  To  cure  the  Whitlow. 

Steep  in  distilled  vinegar,  hot  as  you  can  bear  it,  four  or  five  times  a 
day  for  two  days  successively ; then  moisten  a leaf  of  tobacco  in  the 
vinegar,  bind  it  round  the  part  grieved,  and  a cure  follows. 

(35.)  To  cure  Bleeding  at  the  Nose. 

Rub  your  nostrils  with  the  juice  of  nettles,  or  round  nettles  bruised. 

MEDICINAL  PREPARATIONS. 

There  are  many  useful  preparations  and  simple  remedies  easily 
made  when  one  knows  how,  that  every  one  should  keep  in  the  house. 


THE  NURSE’S  MANUAL. 


103 


To  say  nothing  of  the  convenience  and  safety  in  case  of  emergency 
of  so  doing,  the  economy  is  very  great.  For,  in  case  of  an  accident, 
you  are  obliged  to  run  to  the  apothecary  and  pay  more  for  enough  for 
a single  application,  than  for  what,  with  a little  trouble,  would  have 
lasted  a whole  family  for  a twelvemonth.  The  few  recipes  I now  pre- 
sent, are  exceedingly  valuable.  I heartily  commend  them  to  the  atten- 
tion of  every  housekeeper. 

(1.)  Camphor  Spirits. 

There  is  both  convenience  and  economy  in  preparing  liquid  cam- 
phor yourself;  and  no  house  should  be  without  it.  Buy  two  ounces 
of  gum  camphor,  and  a pint  and  a half  of  spirits  of  wine  (alcohol.) 
Break  up  the  camphor,  pick  it  clean,  and  put  it  into  a large  glass  bot- 
tle or  jar — one  with  a glass  stopper  will  be  the  best — pour  on  the  alco- 
hol, and  cork  it  closely,  tying  a piece  of  kid  leather  over  the  top. 
Next  day  you  will  find  the  camphor  entirely  dissolved.  For  present 
convenience,  transfer  a portion  of  it  to  small  bottles  or  phials.  In 
buying  phials,  it  is  best  always  to  get  the  short,  wide  ones,  that  will 
stand  steadily  by  themselves.  To  take  camphor  as  a remedy  for  faint- 
ness, pour  a few  drops  into  half  a wineglass  of  water  ; stir  it  a little, 
and  drink  it.  Camphor  is  excellent  to  sprinkle  about  a sick  room.  It 
is  well  to  keep  in  a second  large  bottle  a somewhat  different  prepara- 
tion, to  be  used  in  bathing  the  forehead  for  nervous  headache,  or  as  an 
embrocation  of  rheumatic  pains.  For  these  purposes,  instead  of  dis- 
solving the  camphor  in  alcohol  only,  pour  on  it  spirits  of  wine  and 
whiskey  mixed  in  equal  proportions.  Thus  diluted,  it  will  cause  less 
irritation  to  the  skin.  This  will  be  found  to  be  quite  as  good  as  the 
camphor  spirits  obtained  at  the  drug  stores,  and  infinitely  cheaper. 
One  should  always  keep  a bottle  of  it  in  the  house.  When  taken  to 
remove  faintness,  nervous  pains,  &c.,  pour  a few  drops  of  the  liquid 
camphor  into  a half  wineglass  of  water,  and  swallow  it. 

(2.)  Fine  Hoarhound  Candy. 

Take  a large  bunch  of  the  herb  hoarhound,  as  green  and  fresh  as 
you  can  get  it.  Cut  it  up  (leaves  and  stalks)  with  scissors.  Scald 
twice  a China  teapot  or  covered  pitcher.,  and  then  put  into  it  the  hoar- 
hound, pressing  it  down  hard  with  your  hands.  The  pot  should  be 
about  two-thirds  full  of  the  herb.  Then  fill  it  up  with  boiling  water. 
Cover  it  closely,  and  put  a small  roll  of  soft  papei  into  the  mouth  of 
the  spout,  to  prevent  any  of  the  strength  escaping  with  the  steam. 
Set  the  pot  close  to  the  fire  to  infuse,  and  keep  it  there  till  it  comes  to 
a hard  boil.  Then  immediately  take  it  away,  and  strain  it  into  another 
vessel.  Mix  with  the  liquid  sufficient  powdered  loaf  sugar  to  make 
it  very  thick  soft  paste.  Then  put  over  the  fire  and  give  it  a boil, 
stirring  and  skimming  it  well.  Take  a shallow,  square  tin  pan,  grease 
it  slightly  with  sweet  oil,  and  put  into  it  the  candy  as  soon  as  it  is  well 
boiled,  smoothing  it  over  the  surface  with  a wet  knife  blade.  Then 
sift  on  some  powdered  %igar.  Set  it  away  to  cool.  When  nearly 
congealed,  score  it  into  squares.  It  is  good  for  colds,  and  coughs,  and 
hoarseness. 


104 


THE  NURSEJS  MANUAL. 


If  you  find  it  too  thin,  you  may  stir  in,  when  it  is  nearly  done  boil- 
ing, a spoonful  of  flour,  or  arrow-root,  or  pulverized  starch. 

Another  way  of  making  this  candy  is,  to  boil  the  hoarhound  in  as 
much  water  as  will  cover  it,  and  till  all  the  juice  is  extracted.  Then 
strain  it,  and  give  it  another  boil,  stirring  in,  gradually,  sugar  enough 
to  make  it  very  thick  and  stiff.  Afterwards,  sift  sugar  over  a shallow 
tin  pan,  and  fill  it  with  the  paste,  and  leave  it  to  congeal.  Any  herb 
candy  may  be  made  as  above. 

(3.)  Blackberry  Syrup. 

Take  a sufficient  quantity  of  ripe  blackberries.  Put  them  into  a 
sieve  placed  over  a large,  broad  pan,  and  with  a clean  potato-masher, 
or  something  of  the  sort,  press  out  all  the  juice.  Or  having  bruised 
them  first,  put  the  blackberries  into  a linen  bag,  and  squeeze  out  all 
the  juice  into  a vessel  placed  beneath.  Measure  it,  and  to  every  quart 
of  the  strained  juice  allow  half  a pound  of  powdered  loaf  sugar,  a 
heaped  teaspoonful  of  powdered  cinnamon,  the  same  of  powdered 
cloves,  and  a powdered  nutmeg.  Mix  the  spices  with  the  juice  and 
sugar,  and  boil  all  together  in  a porcelain  kettle,  skimming  it  well. 
When  cold,  stir  into  the  above  quantity  half  a pint  of  fourth  proof 
brandy.  Then  bottle  it  for  use.  This  is  a good  family  medicine,  and 
is  beneficial  in  complaints  incident  to  warm  weather. 

It  should  be  administered  at  proper  times,  (at  proper  intervals,)  from 
a teaspoonful  to  a wineglassful,  according  to  the  age  of  the  patient. 

(4.)  French  Raspberry  Vinegar. 

Take  a sufficiency  of  the  ripe  raspberries.  Put  them  into  a deep 
earthen  pan,  and  mash  them  with  a wooden  beetle.  Then  pour  them, 
with  all  their  juice,  into  a large  linen  bag,  and  squeeze  and  press  out 
the  liquid  into  a vessel  beneath.  Measure  it,  and  to  each  quart  of  the 
raspberry-juice,  allow  a pound  of  powdered  white  sugar,  and  a pint  of 
the  best  cider  vinegar.  First  mix.  together  the  juice  and  the  vinegar, 
and  give  them  a boil  in  a preserving-kettle.  Wffien  it  has  boiled  well, 
add  gradually  the  sugar,  and  boil  and  skim  it  till  the  scum  ceases  to 
rise.  When  done,  f at  it  into  clean  bottles,  and  cork  them  tightly.  It 
is  a very  pleasant  ai  d cooling  beverage  in  warm  weather,  and  for  inva- 
lids who  are  feveT  *sh.  To  use  it,  pour  out  half  a tumbler  of  the 
raspberry  vinegar,  and  fill  it  up  with  ice  water. 

(5.)  Fine  Lavender  Compound. 

For  this  purpose  use  lavender  buds  gathered  just  before  they  are 
ready  to  blow.  As  soon  as  the  blossom  expands  into  a flower,  a por 
tion  of  its  strength  and  fragrance  immediately  evaporates.  This  is 
also  the  case  with  roses,  which,  for  rose-water,  should  always  be  gath- 
ered, not  after  they  are  blown,  but  w7hen  just  about  to  open.  Hav- 
ing stripped  the  lavender  buds  from  the  stalks,  measure  a pint  of  the 
buds,  and  mix  with  them  an  ounce  of  powdered  cochineal,  half  an 
ounce  of  whole  cloves,  and  two  nutmegs  ^roken  up  but  not  grated. 
Put  the  whole  into  a glass  jar,  and  pour  in  a quart  of  the  best  French 
brandy,  cover  the  jar  close,  making  it  completely  air-tight  by  the 


THE  YOUNG  LADY’S  MANUAL. 


105 


addition  of  strong  paper  pasted  down  over  the  cover.  Set  away,  and 
leave  the  ingredients  to  infuse,  undisturbed,  for  a month.  Then 
strain  it  into  a pitcher,  and  bottle  it  for  use.  It  is  a well  known 
remedy  for  flatulence,  and  pain,  and  sickness  of  the  stomach.  To 
use  it,  put  some  loaf  sugar  into  the  bottom  of  a wineglass,  pour  on 
sufficient  lavender  to  soften  the  sugar,  and  then  eat  it  with  a teaspoon. 

(6.)  Mustard  Plasters . 

Mustard  plasters  are  frequently  very  efficacious  in  rheumatic  or 
other  pains.  It  is  best  to  make  them  entirely  of  mustard  and  vinegar, 
without  any  mixture  of  flour.  They  should  be  spread ' between  two 
pieces  of  thin  muslin,  and  bound  on  the  part  affected.  It  is  not  well, 
to  allow  them  to  stay  on  more  than  twenty  minutes  at  the  utmost,  it 
not  being  advisable  that  they  should  blister  the  skin.  When  a mus- 
tard plaster  is  taken  off,  wash  the  part  tenderly  with  a soft  sponge  and 
warm  water.  If  the  irritation  continues  troublesome,  apply  poultices 
of  grated  bread  crumbs  well  wetted  with  lead  water,  renewing  them 
frequently.  A mustard  plaster  behind  the  ear  will  often  remove  a 
toothache,  earache,  or  rheumatic  pain  in  the  head.  Applied  to  the 
wrists,  they  are  very  beneficial  in  checking  an  ague  fit,  if  put  on  as 
soon  as  the  first  symptoms  of  the  chill  evince  themselves. 

(7.)  Medicated  Prunes , a 'palatable  Medicine. 

Take  a quarter  of  an  ounce  of  senna  and  manna,  (as  obtained  from 
the  druggists,)  and  pour  on  it  a pint  of  boiling  water.  Cover  it,  set  it 
by  the  fire,  and  let  it  infuse  for  an  hour.  If  the  vessel  in  which  you 
prepare  it  has  a spout,  stop  up  the  spout  with  a roll  or  wad  of  soft 
paper.  This  should  also  be  done  in  making  herb  teas  or  other  decoc- 
tions, as  a portion  of  the  strength  evaporates  at  the  spout.  When  the 
senna  and  manna  have  thus  been  an  hour  by  the  fire,  strain  it  into  a 
skillet  or  saucer,  (one  lined  with  porcelain  will  be  best.)  and  stir  in  a 
large  wineglass  or  small  teacup  of  West  India  molasses.  Add  about 
half  a pound  or  more  of  the  best  prunes,  putting  in  sufficient  to  absorb 
the  liquid  while  stewing.  Then  cover  the  vessel  tightly,  and  let  the 
whole  stand  for  an  hour,  or  till  all  the  stones  of  the  prunes  are  loose 
If  stewed  too  long,  the  prunes  will  taste  weak  and  insipid.  When 
done,  put  it  into  a dish  to  cool,  and  pick  out  all  the  stones.  This  will 
be  found  an  excellent  and  agreeable  cathartic  medicine,  as  there  will 
be  no  perceptible  taste  of  the  senna  or  manna.  It  may  be  given  to 
children  at  their  supper. 


YOUNG  LADY’S  MANUAL. 

UPON  DRESS  AND  THE  TOILETTE— A CHAPTER  FOE 
YOUNG  LADIES. 

I have  little  respect  for  that  philosophy  which  inculcates  a contempt 
for  what  some  judicious  writer  terms  “ the  minor  morals  of  society,” 
or  the  arts  and  accomplishments  which  tend  to  exalt  and  refine  the 
5* 


106 


THE  YOUNG  LADY’S  MANUAL. 


manners  and  disposition.  Foppery  is  one  thing,  and  a proper  regard 
to  dress  and  the  toilette  is  quite  another.  Nothing  is  more  ridiculous 
than  the  first — nothing  tends  more  to  enhance  one’s  self-respect,  force 
of  character,  and  even  strength  of  moral  principle,  than  the  other, 
While  I would  not  therefore  (especially  in  a new  country  like  this) 
encourage  an  undue  attention  to  the  fripperies  and  frivolities  of  mere 
fashion,  I would  strenuously  urge  upon  all  a due  regard  to  neatness  of 
dress,  propriety  of  deportment,  and  such  a reasonable  attention  to  the 
person  generally,  as  shall  tend  to  render  oneself  as  agreeable  as  pos- 
sible to  one’s  associates  and  acquaintances.  I must  be  permitted  to 
add,  that  he  who  doubts  the  propriety  of  such  advice  has  yet  much  to 
learn  of  the  nature  of  man,  and  of  the  influence  of  appearances. 

I shall  now  present  a few  observations  and  prescriptions,  arranged 
under  appropriate  heads,  which  will,  I trust,  meet  the  approbation  and 
approval  of  all  sensible  and  intelligent  ladies. 


DRESS. 

Every  lady  should  study  and  determine  what  dress  is  most  becoming 
and  suitable  to  her  style  of  person.  In  Paris,  the  style  of  beauty,  and 
the  peculiarities  of  every  individual,  are  considered  before  her  style 
of  costume  is  determined  upon.  In  an  English  or  American  ball- 
room, on  the  contrary,  one  dress  is  too  often  the  fac-simile  of  all  the 
others ; the  tall  and  the  short,  the  lean  and  the  stout,  are  all  robed 
alike — and  all,  as  they  imagine,  dressed  according  to  the  latest  Pa- 
risian fashion.  This  is  an  error  which  every  woman  of  real  taste  will 
endeavor  to  correct. 

A few  general  rules  concerning  dress  may  be  given,  which  can  ena- 
ble our  readers  to  determine  what  mode  of  dress  will  most  effectually 
display  and  heighten  their  charms. 

Tight  sleeves,  without  any  trimming,  are  becoming  to  full  forms  the 
medium  height,  or  below  it.  Upon  a tall,  slender  woman,  with  long 
arms,  they  are  very  ungraceful,  unless  trimmed  with  folds,  or  a small, 
ruffled  cap,  which  is  made  to  reach  the  elbow.  Upon  a very  short, 
stout  person,  moderately  wide  sleeves  are  more  becoming  than  tight 
ones,  as  they  conceal  the  outlines  of  the  form. 

Flounces  are  graceful  upon  tall  persons,  whether  slender  or  other- 
wise, but  never  upon  diminutive  ones.  Tucks  are  equally  graceful 
upon  both,  and  never  look  out  of  fashion.  A couple  of  wide  tucks, 
which  give  the  appearance  of  two  skirts,  are  very  beautiful  for  an  even- 
ing dress,  made  .of  delicate  materials.  Any  species  of  trimming  down 
the  front  or  sides  of  the  skirt,  increases  the  apparent  height. 

Capes  are,  in  general,  only  becoming  to  persons  with  falling  shoul- 
ders. 

High  neck  dresses  are  convenient,  and  almost  always  look  well. 
Upon  a very  high-shouldered  person,  a low-necked  dress  is  more  ap- 
propriate, and  if  the  shoulders  are  only  moderately  high,  the  jieck  may 
still  be  covered,  and  the  dress  finished  off*  about  the  throat  with  a nar- 
row piece  of  lace,  turned  downwards,  instead  of  a collar.  Dresses 
with  loose  backs  are  only  becoming  upon  very  fine,  and  at  the  same 


THE  YOUNG  LADY  S MANUAL. 


107 


time  slender  figures.  Evening  dresses  of  transparent  materials  look 
well  when  made  high  in  the  neck ; but  upon  very  young  girls  it  is 
more  usual  to  cut  the  dress  low,  leaving  a part  of  the  shoulder  bare. 
A dress  should  always  be  made  loose  over  the  chest,  and  tight  over  the 
shoulder  blades. 

Every  species  of  drapery  is  graceful,  and  may  always  be  worn  to 
advantage.  Long  sashes,  knotted  in  front,  are  more  becoming  than 
belts,  unless  there  is  much  trimming  upon  the  dress. 

Na  dress  with  long  sleeves  is  complete,  without  a pair  of  cuffs. 
They  look  very  pretty,  when  simply  made  of  linen  cambric,  with  a 
double  row  of  herring-bone.  Cuffs,  with  small  ruffles,  make  the  hands 
look  small. 

To  make  narrow  shoulders  look  wider,  an  inside  cape,  (or  cape  fas- 
tened to  the  dress,)  falling  at  the  shoulders,  should  be  worn. 

The  effect  of  a well  made  tournure  (or  bustle)  is  to  make  the  waist 
look  round  and  delicate.  An  extremely  small  and  waspish  looking 
waist  can  never  be  considered  a beauty.  It  is  exceedingly  hurtful  to 
those  who  attain  it  by  tight  lacing,  and  doubly  ungraceful,  since  it  pre- 
vents all  graceful  movements.  Tying  the  sash  in  a point  in  front 
gives  a roundness  to  the  waist,  and  lessens  its  dimensions.  To  pre- 
vent the  fulness  of  the  skirt  from  rising  above  the  sash,  which  is  very 
ungraceful,  the  belt  should  be  lined  with  buckram. 

Short  cloaks  are  very  unbecoming  to  short  and  clumsily  built  per- 
sons— upon  others  they  are  generally  graceful. 

A close  cottage  bonnet  is  never  out  of  fashion,  and  there  are  very 
few  faces  which  it  does  not  improve. 

The  morning  costume  of  a lady  should  consist  of  a loose  wrapper , 
fastened  with  a cord  and  tassel  at  the  waist,  and  worn  with  very  plam 
cuffs  and  collar. 

Shoes  should  always  be  worn  a little  longer  than  the  foot,  so  that 
their  length  makes  the  foot  look  narrow,  which  is  a great  beauty.  A 
broad,  short  foot  can  never  be  considered  handsome.  Tight  shoes 
impair  the  gait,  and  a large  foot  is,  at  any  time,  preferable  to  an  awk- 
ward mode  of  walking. 


THE  HAIR. 

Hair  should  be  abundant,  soft,  flexible,  growing  in  long  locks,  in 
color  suitable  to  the  skin,  thick  in  the  mass,  delicate  and  distinct  in 
the  particular.  The  mode  of  wearing  it  should  differ.  Those  who 
have  it  growing  low  in  the  nape  of  the  neck,  should  prefer  wearing  it 
in  locks  hanging  down,  rather  than  turned  up  with  a comb ; the  wear- 
ing it,  however,  in  that  manner,  is  delicate  and  feminine,  and  suits 
many.  In  general,  this  mode  of  wearing  the  hair  is  to  be  regulated 
by  the  shape  of  the  head.  Ringlets  hanging  about  the  forehead  suit 
almost  every  one.  On  the  other  hand,  the  fashion  of  putting  the  hair 
smoothly,  and  drawing  it  back  on  either  side,  is  becoming  to  few ; it 
has  a look  of  vanity  instead  of  simplicity ; the  face  must  do  everything 
foi  it,  which  is  asking  too  much ; especially,  as  hair,  in  its  pure  stater 


108 


THE  YOUNG  LADY’S  MANUAL. 


is  the  ornament  intended  for  it  by  nature.  Hair  is  to  the  human  aspect 
what  foliage  is  to  the  landscape.  r 

Dressing  the  Hair. 

After  a few  experiments,  a lady  may  very  easily  decide  what  mode 
of  dressing  her  hair,  and  what  head-dress,  renders  her  face  most 
attractive. 

Light  hair  is  generally  most  becoming  when  curled.  For  a round 
face,  the  curls  should  be  made  in  short,  half  ringlets,  reaching  a little 
below  the  ears.  For  an  oval  face,  long  and  thick  ringlets  are  suitable, 
but  if  the  face  be  thin  and  sharp,  .the  ringlets  should  be  light,  and  not 
• too  long,  nor  too  many  in  number. 

When  dark  hair  is  curled,  the  ringlets  should  never  fall  in  heavy 
masses  upon  the  shoulders.  Open  braids  are  very  beautiful  when 
made  of  dark  hair — they  are  also  becoming  to  light-haired  persons 
A simple  and  graceful  mode  of  arranging  the  hair  is  to  fold  the  front 
locks  behind  the  ears,  permitting  the  ends  to  fall  in  a couple  of  ring- 
lets on  either  side  behind.  s 

Another  beautiful  mode  of  dressing  the  hair,  and  one  very  appro- 
priate in  damp  weather,  when  it  will  not  keep  in  curl,  is  to  loop  up 
the  ringlets  with  small  hair-pins  on  either  side  of  the  face  and  behind 
the  ears,  and  pass  a light  band  of  braided  hair  over  them. 

, Great  care  should  be  taken  to  part  the  hair  directly  in  the  centre  of 
the  forehead,  in  a line  from  the  nose.  When  the  hair  is  parted  at  the 
side,  the  line  of  parting  should  be  made  directly  over  the  centre  of  the 
right  or  left  eyebrow.  There  are  very  fevy  persons  who  do  not  look 
better  with  hair  parted  in  the  middle  of  the  forehead  than  at  the  side. 

Persons  with  very  long,  narrow  heads,  may  wear  the  hair  knotted 
very  low  at  the  back  of  the  neck.  If  the  head  be  long,  but  not  very 
narrow,  the  back  hair  may  be  drawn  to  one  side,  braided  in  a thick 
braid,  and  wound  around  the  head.  When  the  head  is  round  the  hair 
should  be  formed  in  a braid  in  the  middle  of  the  back  of  the  head.  If 
the  braid  be  made  to  resemble  a basket,  and  a few  curls  permitted  to 
fall  from  within  it,  the  shape  of  the  head  is  much  improved. 

Caps  are  becoming  to  most  ladies,  but  they  should  be  trimmed  with 
as  few  bows  and  as  little  lace  as  possible.  Upon  a long  head,  they 
look  well  with  a narrow  border  of  lace  lying  close  to  the  face  and 
forehead. 

Turbans  are  very  generally  becoming,  if  well  arranged.  Upon  a 
young  person,  they  should  only  consist  of  a silk,  gauze,  or  cashmere 
scarf,  laid  over  the  head,  fastened  at  one  side,  and  the  long  ends  twist- 
ed into  a roll  and  wound  round  the  head.  The  scarf  should  have  a 
fringe. 


The  German  method  of  treating  the  Hair. 

T]!®  w°men  of  Germany  have  remarkably  fine  and  luxuriant  hair: 
the  following  is  their  method  of  managing  it.  About  once  in  two  or 
three  weeks,  boil  for  half  an  hour  or  more  a large  handful  of  bran  in 
a quart  of  soft  water ; strain  it  into  a basin,  and  let  it  cool  till  nearly 
tepid ; rub  into  it  a little  white  soap,  and  then  dip  in  the  corner  of  a 


THE  YOUNG  LADY’S  MANUAL. 


109 


soft  linen  cloth  or  towel,  and  wash  your  head  with  it  thoroughly,  di- 
viding the  hair  all  over,  so  as  to  reach  the  roots.  Next  take  the  yolk 
of  an  egg,  slightly  beaten  in  a saucer,  and  with  your  fingers  rub  it 
well  into  the  roots  of  the  hair,  let  it  rest  a few  minutes,  and  then  wash 
it  off  entirely  with  a cloth  dipped  in  pure  water,  rinse  the  head  well 
till  the  yolk  of  the  egg  has  disappeared  from  it,  then  wipe  and  rub 
it  dry  with  a towel,  and  comb  the  hair  up  from  your  head,  parting  it 
with  your  fingers.  In  winter,  it  is  best  to  do  all  this  near  the  fire. 

Have  ready  some  soft  pomatum  made  of  fresh  beef  marrow  boiled 
with  a little  almond  oil  or  sweet  olive  oil,  stirring  it  all  the  time  till  it 
is  well  amalgamated,  and  as  thick  as  an  ointment.  When  you  take 
it  from  the  fire  (and  not  before)  stir  in  a little  mild  perfume,  such  as 
oil  of  roses,  or  rose-water,  oil  of  carnations,  essence  of  violets,  or 
orange  flower  water.  Put  it  into  gallicups  with  lids,  and  keep  it  well 
covered  for  use.  Take  a very  small  quantity  of  this  pomatum,  and 
rub  it  among  your  hair  on  the  skin  of  your  head,  after  it  has  been 
washed  as  above. 

To  make  the  Hair  curl. 

At  any  time  you  may  make  your  hair  curl  the  more  easily  by  rub- 
bing it  with  beaten  yolk  of  an  egg,  washed  off  afterwards  with  clear 
water,  and  then  putting  on  a little  pomatum  before  you  put  up  your 
curls ; it  is  well  always  to  go  through  this  process  when  you  change 
to  curls,  after  having  worn  your  hair  plain. 

To  make  the  Hair  grow  rapidly. 

Take  half  a pound  of  southernwood,  and  let  it  be  slightly  pounded, 
boil  it  in  a pound  and  a half  of  olive  oil,  and  half  a pint  of  port  wine ; 
when  these  ingredients  are  thoroughly  impregnated,  take  them  off  the 
fire,  and  strain  out  the  liquid  well,  through  a linen  cloth.  Repeat  the 
operation  three  times  with  fresh  southernwood ; and  this  being  done, 
add  to  the  filtered  liquor  two  ounces  of  bear’s  grease,  or  hog’s  lard. 

It  should  be  added,  that  excess  in  the  use  of  this,  as  well  as  any 
other  oleaginous  substance,  must  be  avoided,  as  it  would  produce  a 
contrary  effect,  and  cause  the  hair  to  fall  off.  The  recipe  we  have 
here  given  is  one  of  the  best  prescriptions  for  making  the  hair  grow., 
ever  given. 

To  prevent  the  Hair  falling  out. 

One  of  the  most  efficacious  methods  of  preventing  the  hair  falling 
out,  is  to  moisten  it  occasionally  with  a little  fresh  strong  beer.  It 
also  keeps  the  hair  in  curl.  When  first  used,  it  is  apt  to  render  the 
hair  dry,  but  a small  quantity  of  bear’s  oil  will  remove  this  objection. 

To  stain  the  Hair  black. 

Take  of  bruised  gall  nuts  one  pound,  boil  them  in  olive  oil  till  they 
become  soft;  then  dry  them,  and  reduce  them  to  a fine  powder,  which 
is  to  be  incorporated  with  equal  parts  of  the  charcoal  of  the  willow, 
and  common  salt  prepared  and  pulverized.  Add  a small  quantity  of 
lemon  and  orange  peel,  dried  and  reduced  to  powder.  Boil  the  whole 


110 


THE  YOUNG  LADY’s  MANUAL. 


in  twelve  pounds  of  water  till  the  sediment  at  the  bottom  of  the  vessel 
assumes  the  consistence  of  a black  salve. 

Obs.— -The  hair  is  to  be  annointed  with  this  preparation  ; covering 
it  with  a cap  till  dry,  and  then  combing  it.  All  preparations  of  this 
kind  shouM  be  used  once  a week,  because  as  fast  as  the  hair  grows, 
it  appears  in  its  original  color  at  the  part  nearest  the  skin. 

Another  Method . 

Boil  for  half  an  hour,  on  a slow  fire,  equal  parts  of  vinegar,  lemon 
juice,  and  powdered  litharge.  With  this  decoction  wet  the  hair,  and 
in  a short  time  it  will  turn  black. 

To  remove  superfluous  Hair. 

Hair  is  said  to  be  superfluous  when  it  grows  on  the  back  of  the 
hands,  or  fingers,  the  cheek  bones,  the  upper  lip  or  chins  of  females, 
or  other  parts  of  the  exposed  surface  of  the  skin. 

The  depilatories  in  general  use  are  various,  possessing  different  de- 
grees of  strength.  The  mildest  are  parsley  water,  acacia  juice,  and 
the  gum  of  ivy.  It  is  asserted  that  nut  oil,  with  which  many  peo- 
ple rub  the  heads  of  children,  prevents  the  hair  from  growing.  The 
juice  of  the  milk- thistle  mixed  with  oil,  is  recommended  by  Dr.  Turner 
to  remove  the  hair  which  grows  too  low  upon  the  forehead.  It  is  also 
said  that  the  gum  of  the  cherry  tree  prevents  the  hair  from  growing. 

The  following  method,  if  carefully  adopted,  may  be  employed  with 
success : Apply  gently,  by  means  of  a hair  pencil,  a few  drops  of  mu- 
riatic acid  a little  reduced  at  first ; and  if  this  does  not  succeed,  let  the 
concentrated  form  be  used  by  delicately  touching  the  tops  of  the  hair 
to  be  removed,  avoiding,  as  much  as  possible,  the  skin  ; Or  what  is  a 
better  way  to  apply  this  acid,  rub  the  skin  and  hair  over  at  the  same 
time,  and  immediately  afterwards  rub  the  part  with  a linen  cloth. 

To  remove  Hair  from  the  Nostrils. 

Take  some  very  fine  and  clean  wood  ashes,  dilute  them  with  a little 
water,  and  with  the  finger  apply  some  of  the  mixture  within  the  nos- 
trils. The  hair  will  be  removed  without  the  least  pain. 

Oil  for  the  Hair. 

A very  excellent  ready  made  oil  for  the  hair,  which  answers  all 
common  purposes,  is  made  by  mixing  one  part  brandy  with  three  parts 
of  sweet  oil.  Add  any  scent  you  prefer ; a selection  can  be  got  at 
the  druggist’s.  But  the  best  oil  upon  the  whole,  for  the  hair,  to  be 
used  regularly,  is  perhaps  the  Macassar  oil ; this  is  now  very  difficult 
to  obtain  in  its  genuine  form ; that  which  is  commonly  sold  in  this 
country  is  a vile  counterfeit,  and  in  most  cases  is  an  absolute  injury 
to  the  hair,  causing  it  to  crisp  and  dry  up.  Appended  is  a recipe 
which  will  enable  every  one  to  make  the  genuine  article,  and  at  one 
fourth  the  price  at  which  it  can  be  procured. 

Take  half  an  ounce  of  the  chippings  of  alkanet  root,  which  may 
be  bought  for  a few  cents  at  a druggist’s.  Divide  this  quantity  into 
four  portions,  and  tie  up  each  portion  in  a separate  bit  of  new  bobbinet. 


THE  YOUNG  LADY’s  MANUAL. 


Ill 


or  clean  thin  muslin.  The  strings  must  be  while;  for  instance,  coarse 
white  thread,  or  fine  cotton  cord.  Take  care  to  omit  any  powder  or 
dust  that,  may  be  found  about  the  alkanet.,  as  if  put  in,  it  will  render 
the  oil  cloudy  and  muddy.  Put  these  little  bags  into  a large  tumbler, 
or  a straight-sided  white-ware  jar,  and  pour  on  half  a pint  of  the  best 
fresh  olive  oil.  Cover  the  vessel,  and  leave  it  untouched  for  three  or 
lour  days  or  a week,  being  careful  not  to  shake  or  stir  it ; do  not  press 
or  squeeze  the  bags.  Have  ready  some  small  clear  glass  phials,  or 
one  large  one,  that  will  hold  half  a pint.  Take  out  carefully  the 
bags  of  alkanet,  and  lay  them  in  a saucer.  You  will  find  that  they 
have  colored  the  oil  of  a beautiful  crimson.  Put  into  the  bottom  of 
each  phial  a small  portion  of  any  perfume  you  fancy ; for  instance, 
oil  of  orange  flowers ; oil  of  jessamine ; oil  of  roses ; oil  of  pinks  • 
extract  of  violets.  The  pungent  oils  (cloves,  cinnamon,  bergamot! 
lavender,  orange  peel,  lemon,  &c.,)  are  not  good  for  the  hair,  and  must 
not  be  used  in  scenting  Macassar  oil.  Having  put  a little  perfume 
into  the  phials  pour  into  each,  through  a small  funnel,  sufficient  of  the 
colored  olive  oil  to  fill  them  to  the  neck.  Then  cork  them  tightly,  and 
tie  a circular  bit  of  white  kid  leather  over  the  corks, 
i-..,  ' °.  “s0  Macassar  oil,  (observing  never  to  shake  the  bottle)  pour  a 
little  into  a saucer,  and  with  the  finger  rub  it  into  the  roots  of  the  hair 

iiie  bags  of  alkanet  may  be  used  a second  time. 

To  prevent  one's  Bonnet  being  injured  by  the  Hair. 

Great  advantage  will  be  found  in  having  a piece  of  white  or  yellow 
oiled  silk  basted  inside  of  that  part  of  your  bonnet  where  the  crown 
unites  with  the  brim,  carrying  it  up  some  distance  into  the  crown,  and 
some  distance  down  into  the  hair  between  the  outside  and  the  lining. 
This  will  prevent  the  bonnet  being  injured  by  any  oiliness  about  your 
hair.  Or  you  may  have!  an  oiled  silk  bonnet  cap. 

All  hair  should  be  combed  every  morning  with  a fine  comb,  to  re- 
move  the  dust  which  insensibly  goes  into  it  during  the  day,  and  to 
keep  the  skm  of  the  head  always  clean. 

To  dean  Hair  Brushes. 

Clean  your  head  brushes  by  washing  them  thoroughly  with  a bit  of 
soft  sponge  tied  on  the  end  of  a stick,  and  dipped  into  a warm  solu- 
tion  of  pearlash,  prepared  by  dissolving  a tablespoonful  of  pearlash  in 
a pint  of  boiling  water.  When  the  bristles  have  thus  been  made 
quite  clean,  rinse  the  brushes  in  clear  hot  water,  leaving  them  in  till 
the  water  gets  cold.  Afterwards  drain  and  wipe  the  brushes  with  a 
clean  cloth,  and  set -them  upright  before  the  fire  to  dry. 

To  dean  a fine-tooth  Comb. 

.,'£!!?  mof  conjenient  way  of  cleaning  combs,  is  with  a strong  silk 
thread,  made  fast  to  the  handle  of  a bureau  drawer — in  front  of  which 

ZUT&TV  t0Wel  SPDad  rr  yGUr  lap  *°  catch  tbe  impuri- 

ties  that  fall  from  the  comb.  Pas  the  thread  hard  between  each  of  its 


1 12 


i THE  YOUNG  LAOY’s  MANUAL. 


teeth,  holding  the  comb  in  one  hand,  and  the  end  of  the  thread  in  the 
other.  Afterwards  wipe  the  comb  well,  and  then  wash  it  in  warm 
soap  suds,  and  dry  it  on  a clean  cloth. 


THE  EYE-LASHES. 

The  Circassian  method  of  treating  the  eye-lashes  is  as  follows : — 
The  careful  mother  removes,  with  a pair  of  scissors,  the  forked  and 
gossamer-like  points  (not  more)  of  the  eye-lashes ; and  every  time 
this  is  done,  their  growth  is  renewed,  and  they  become  long,  close, 
finely  curved,  and  of  a silky  gloss. 

The  growth  of  the  eye-lashes  has  been  promoted,  where  they  have 
been  lost  from  disease,  by  the  following  ointment: — Take  ointment  of 
nitre  oxide  of  mercury,  two  drachms  ; hog’s  lard,  one  drachm.  Incor- 
porate the  the  ointment  well  with  the  lard,  and  anoint  the  edges  of 
the  eye-lids  night  and  morning,  washing  after  each  time  with  milk  and 
water,  warm. 

To  blacken  the  Eye-lashes. 

The  simplest  preparations  for  this  purpose,  are  the  juice  of  elder 
berries,  burnt  cork,  and  cloves  burnt  at  the  candle.  Another  means 
is,  to  take  the  black  of  frankincense,  resin  and  mastic.  This  black 
will  not  come  off  with  perspiration. 


THE  MOUTH. 

The  mouth  requires  particular  care,  as  nothing  is  more  offensive 
than  a want  of  cleanliness  in  this  organ.  It  should  be  rinsed  every 
morning,  with  cold  water.  This  frequent  washing  of  the  month  is 
necessary,  because  small  particles  of  food  settle  about  the  interstices 
of  the  teeth,  and  if  not  removed  will  affect  the  breath,  and  gradually 
affect  the  teeth.  The  tongue  ought  no  less  to  be  cleansed  every  morn- 
ing, either  with  a small  piece  of  whalebone  or  with  a leaf  of  sage, 
which  last  is  also  useful  for  polishing  the  teeth.  To  cleanse  the 
throat,  it  should  be  gurgled  with  cold  water,  and  more  or  less  of  the 
same  swallowed  every  morning  fasting. 

Purity  'of  the  Breath . 

Purity  of  breath  is  an  advantage  that  cannot  be  too  highly  prized, 
as  the  want  of  it  is  the  most  unfortunate  circumstance  that  can  befall 
beauty,  and  is  alone  sufficient  to  annihilate,  in  an  instant,  the  most 
perfect  and  otherwise  inviting  charms. 

A fetid  breath  may  be  the  consequence  of  various  causes.  When 
it  proceeds  from  a diseased  state  of  the  lungs,  riding  on  horseback, 
fresh  air,  and  the  use  of  gargles  of  myrrh,  or  of  the  infusion  of  oak 
bark,  with  proper  attention  to  the  state  of  the  bowels,  may  palliate  the 
affection,  and  ultimately  remove  it,  if  not  too  deeply  seated. 


THE  YOUNG  LADY’s  MANUAL 


113 


If  it  arise  from  causes  which  derange  the  digestive  organs,  the 
cause  may  be  removed  by  proper  medicines  before  the  effect  can 
cease ; but  cleanliness,  and  attention  to  the  state  of  the  mouth  and 
teeth,  morning  and  night,  will  assist  to  remove  the  inconvenience. 
Tonic  gargles,  charcoal,  and  Peruvian  bark,  or  myrrh,  for  a tooth 
powder;  chewing,  occasionally,  a little  mastic,  will  be  useful. 

Bad  breath  is  frequently  the  consequence  of  repeated  watching,  or 
excessive  fatigue,  immoderate  pleasures,  or  amusements.  When  it 
proceeds  from  an  incurable  evil,  the  person  so  affected  is  reduced  to 
the  sad  necessity  of  removing  the  smell  by  others  of  a different  kind. 
For  this  purpose,  cashoo  is  recommended,  to  which,  as  it  combines 
with  many  other  odoriferous  substances,  any  scent  may  be  given  that 
is  preferred. 

There  are  many  forms  prescribed  for  using  it ; we  select  the  follow- 
ing : — 

Take  gum  tragacanth  and  cashoo,  enough  of  each  tG  make  a ball 
about  the  size  of  a filbert ; scent  it  with  Cologne  water,  oil  bergamot, 
ambergris,  or  any  other  agreeable  perfume. 

Keep  one  of  these  in  your  mouth,  on  occasion,  or  you  may  chew, 
occasionally,  a bit  of  the  root  of  Florentine  iris,  or  gum  mastic ; or 
wash  the  mouth  frequently,  as  already  observed,  with  the  tincture  of 
myrrh : or,  at  night,  going  to  bed,  chew  a piece  of  the  myrrh,  about 
the  size  of  a small  nut ; or  every  night  and  morning,  a clove ; or  a 
piece  of  burnt  alum,  about  the  size  of  a small  bean  ; but  attention  to 
the  state  of  the  bowels,  is  an  indispensable  requisite  where  the  breath 
is  tainted  from  whatever  cause,  and  all  other  remedies,  without  this, 
will  be  useless. 

The  Teeth  and  Gums . 

Cleanliness  of  the  teeth  is  to  the  eye  what  purity  of  the  breath  is 
to  the  sense  of  smelling.  Nothing,  indeed,  is  more  pleasing  than 
clean,  white  teeth,  and  gums  of  the  color  of  the  rose ; nothing  more 
disagreeable  than  dirty,  black  teeth,  thickly  encrusted  with  tartar,  a 
sight  alone  sufficient  to  excite  disgust:  the  most  beautiful  face  and 
vermilion  lips  being  repulsive,  if  the  latter,  when  open,  exhibit  Jie 
horrible  spectacle  of  neglected  teeth. 

The  teeth  are  liable  to  lose  their  whiteness  by  the  influence  of  vari- 
ous causes — for  instance,  they  become  encrusted  with  tartarous  mat- 
ter, and  are  tarnished  either  by  the  action  of  certain  elements,  or 
by  the  exhalations  of  the  stomach.  When  the  loss  of  whiteness  is 
occasioned  by  the  production  of  tartar,  a corhl  stick  may  be  used  to 
clean  the  teeth,  and  to  remove  the  tartarous  salt.  The  blackness  of 
the  teeth  may  be  corrected  by  the  .following  process : pulverize  equal 
parts  of  tartar  and  salt,  and  having  washed  your  teeth  fasting,  rub 
them  with  this  powder. 

The  preservation  of  the  teeth  depends  not  only  on  the  particular 
pains  necessary  to  be  taken  with  them,  but  also  on  the  regimen  best 
adapted  to  health.  The  teeth  do  not  long  continue  sound  with  bad 
digestion,  with  unwholesome  food,  with  a stomach  which  but  imper^ 


114 


THE  YOUNG  LADY’S  MANUAL. 


fectly  discharges  its  functions,  and  with  vitiated  digestive  juices.  All 
these  causes  may  contribute  to  the  decay  of  teeth,  and  the  bad  state 
of  the  gums. 

The  gums  cannot  be  healthy  unless  they  are  firm  and  red,  and  ad- 
here to  the  roots  of  the  teeth.  These  qualities  depend  in  a great  mea- 
sure on  the  state  of  the  health. 

The  gums  are  liable  to  a variety  of  accidents  which  impair  both 
their  health  and  beauty,  and  which  often  transform  them  into  objects 
most  disgusting  to  the  eye.  Sometimes  they  grow  soft,  swell,  and  ap- 
pear full  of  livid  and  corrupted  blood — at  others,  they  project,  and 
cover  great  part  of  the  teeth : they  also  become  inflamed  and  painful, 
and  covered  with  offensive  and  malignant  ulcers. 

When  disease  of  the  gums  proceeds  from  internal  causes,  these 
must  be  first  attacked  with  adequate  remedies : in  this  case,  recourse 
must  be  had  to  medical  advice;  we  shall  only  here,  therefore,  con- 
sider such  cases  for  which  local  applications  are  sufficient. 

Tincture  for  the  Teeth  and  Gums. 

Take  Peruvian  bark,  coarsely  powdered,  one  ounce,  and  infuse  it 
for  a fortnight  in  half  a pint  of  brandy. 

Gargle  the  mouth  morning  and  night,  with  a teaspoonful  of  this 
tincture,  diluted  with  an  equal  quantity  of  rose-water. 

Mixture  for  Caries , or  Rotten  Teeth. 

Make  a balsam  with  a sufficient  quantity  of  honey,  two  scruples  of 
myrrh  in  fine  powder,  a scruple  of  gum  juniper,  and  ten  grains  of 
rock  alum.  A portion  to  be  applied  frequently  to  the  decayed  teeth. 

A Coral  Stick  for  the  Teeth. 

Make  a stiff  paste  with  tooth  powder,  and  a sufficient  quantity  of 
mucilage  of  gum  tragacanth ; form  with  this  paste  cylindrical  rollers, 
the  thickness  of  a large  goose-quill,  and  about  three  inches  in  length. 

The  way  to  use  this  stick  is  to  rub  it  against  the  teeth,  which  be- 
come cleaner  in  proportion  as  it  washes. 

Dog-wood  for  the  Teeth. 

A small  twig  of  dog-wood  is  of  great  service  in  cleansing  the  teeth. 
It  may  be  used  instead  of  a tooth-brush,  and  is  particularly  serviceable 
in  cleansing  between  the  teeth  without  injuring  the  enamel.  A silk 
thread,  well  waxed,  will  also  effectually  remove  the  tartar  from  be- 
tween the  teeth. 

To  clean  the  Teeth  and  Gums. 

Take  an  ounce  of  myrrh  in  fine  pow7der,  two  spoon fufs  of  the  best 

kite  honey,  and  a little  green  sage  in  a very  fine  powder,.  Mix  them 


THE  YOUNG  LADY’S  MANUAL. 


115 


well  together,  and  wet  the  teeth  and  gums  with  a little  every  night  and 
rooming. 

Another  Prescription. 

Take  pummice  stone,  and  cuttle-fish  bone,  of  each  half  an  ounce ; 
vitriolated  tartar,  and  mastic,  of  each  a drachm ; oil  of  rhodium,  four 
drops.  Mix  all  into  a fine  powder. 

Ohs. 

Charcoal  alone  stands  pre-eminent  in  the  rank  of  dentrifices.  From 
the  property  it  possesses  of  destroying  the  coloring  particles,  it  has 
been  turned  to  a good  purpose  as  a tooth  powder  for  whitening  the 
teeth:  as  it  attacks  only  the  coloring  matter  of  the  teeth,  it  does.no 
injury  to  the  enamel.  Jt  possesses,  besides,  the  property  of  opposing 
putrefaction,  of  checking  its  progress,  and  even  causing  it  to  retro- 
grade ; hence,  it  is  calculated  to  destroy  the  vices  of  the  gums,  to 
clean  them,  and  to  correct  the  fetor  which  may  accumulate  in  the 
mouth  and  among  the  teeth ; in  these  two  respects,  powdered  charcoal 
is  the  tooth-powder,  par  excellence , and  is,  accordingly,  recommended 
by  many  eminent  physicians  and  chemists.  It  may  occasionally  be 
used  either  with  myrrh,  Peruvian  bark,  cream  of  tartar,  or  chalk. 


THE  LIPS. 

The  lips  are  liable  to  excoriations  and  chaps,  which  often  extend  to 
considerable  depth.  These  chaps  are  generally  occasioned  by  mere 
cold ; the  following  salves  will  be  found  efficacious  in  correcting  these 
evils. 

(1.)  Lip  Salve. 

Take  oil  of  almonds  three  ounces  ; spermaceti  one  ounce  ; virgin 
rice  half  an  ounce.  Melt  these  together  over  a slow  fire,  mixing  with 
them  a little  powder  of  alkanet  root  to  color  it.  Keep  stirring  till 
cold,  and  then  add  a few  drops  of  the  oil  of  rhodium  ; or, 

(2.)  Take  oil  of  almonds,  spermaceti,  white  wax,  and  white  sugar- 
candy,  equal  parts.  These  form  a good  white  lip  salve  ; or, 

(3.)  Take  oil  of  almonds  two  ounces,  white  wax  and  spermaceti, 
of  each  one  drachm ; melt,  and  while  warm,  add  rose  water  tw’o 
ounces,  and  orange  flower  water  half  an  ounce.  These  make  Hud- 
son’s cold  cream,  a very  excellent  article. 


THE  HANDS  AND  ARMS. 

A fine  hand  is  always  pleasing,  and  next  to  the  charms  of  a beau- 
tiful face,  a waman  h as  an  undoubted  right  to  be  proud  of  a fine, 


no 


THE  YOUNG  LADY’S  MANUAL. 


delicately  tapered  hand,  and  a symmetrical  and  elegantly  rounded  arm 
A handsome  head  may  be  appended  to  a very  ordinary  body,  or  an 
ugly  head  may  detract  from  the  elegance  of  a well-shapen  body ; but 
a fine  hand  and  arm  scarcely  ever  accompany  any  than  an  otherwise 
perfect  person,  and  are  an  unerring  symbol  of  gentility  or  nobleness 
of  birth  and  character. 

To  improve  the  Skin  of  the  Hands  and  Arms . 

Take  two  ounces  of  Venice  soap,  and  dissolve  it  in  two  ounces  of 
lemon  juice.  Add  one  ounce  of  the  oil  of  bitter  almonds,  and  a like 
quantity  of  the  oil  of  tartar.  Mix  the  whole,  and  stir  it  well  till  it  has 
acquired  the  consistence  of  soap ; and  use  it  as  such  for  the  hands. 

The  paste  of  sweet  almonds,  which  contains  an  oil  fit  for  keeping 
the  skin  soft  and  elastic,  and  removing  indurations,  may  be  benefi- 
cially applied  to  the  hands  and  arms. 

The  most  common  accidents  to  which  the  hands  are  liable,  are 
chaps,  chilblains,  and  warts.  The  perspiration  of  the  hands  is  also, 
at  times,  very  troublesome,  especially  to  such  as  are  employed  in 
works  which  require  great  cleanliness. 

Chaps 

Are  usually  the  result  of  cold,  and  though  not  so  serious  as  chil- 
blains, of  which  we  shall  treat  hereafter,  are  very  detrimental  to 
delicate  hands.  • They  leave  the  true  skin,  which  is  acutely  sensible, 
bare,  raw,  and  sore  ; and  thus  cause  irritation  and  inflammation.  This 
may  alike  occur  from  summer’s  heat  as  the  cold  of  winter;  and 
equally  attack  the  lips,  face,  hands,  or  any  other  part  exposed  to  heat 
or  cold. 

For  the  cure  of  chapped  hands,  take  three  drachms  of  bole  ammo- 
niac, three  drachms  of  Myrrh,  and  a drachm  of  white  lead.  Incorpo- 
rate these  with  a sufficient  quantity  of  goose-grease ; and  with  this 
anoint  the  parts  affected ; and  wear  worsted  gloves  : or, 

(2.)  Take  myrrh,  one  ounce ; litharge,  one  drachm ; honey,  four 
ounces  ; wax,  yellow,  two  ounces;  oil  of  roses,  six  ounces. - Mix  the 
whole  in  one  well-blended  mass  for  use. 

When  the  hands  are  chapped,  avoid  putting  them  in  water.  To 
whiten  the  hands,  and  preserve  them  from  being  chapped,  rub  them 
with  a tallow  candle  before  retiring,  and  wear  a pair  of  gloves  through 
the  night. 

To  remove  Stains  from  the  Hands . 

Ink-stains,  dye-stains,  &c.,  can  be  immediately  removed,  by  dipping 
the  finger  in  water,  (warm  water  is  best)  and  then  rubbing  on  the  stain 
a small  portion  of  oxalic  acid  powder  and  cream  of  tartar,  mixed  to- 
gether in  equal  quantities,  and  kept  in  a box.  When  the  stain  disap- 
pears, wash  the  hands  with  fine  soap,  or  almond  cream.  A small  box 
of  this  stain-powder  should  be  kept  always  in  the  washstand  drawer 


THE  YOUNG  LADY  S MANUAL. 


m 


unless  there  are  smail  children  in  the  family,  in  which  case  it  should 
be  put  out  of  their  reach,  as  it  is  poison  if  swallowed. 

The  Nails. 

To  g we  a fine  color  to  the  nails,  the  hands  and  fingers  must  be  well 
lathered  and  washed  in  scented  soap ; then  the  nails  should  be  rubbed 
with  equal  parts  of  cinnabar  and  emery,  and  afterwards  with  oil  of 
bitter  almonds.  When  the  bad  color  of  the  nails  is  occasioned  by 
some  internal  evil,  the  cause  must  be  first  attacked.  In  jaundice,  for 
instance,  the  nails  become  of  a yellow  color,  which  it  would  be  in 
vain  to  attempt  to  correct  by  external  application. 

There  are  sometimes  white  specks  upon  the  nails,  called  gifts. 
These  may  be  removed  by  the  following  preparation. 

Melt  equal  parts  of  pitch  and  turpentine  in  a small  vessel : add  to 
it  vinegar  and  powdered  sulphur.  Apply  this  mixture  to  the  nails,  and 
the  spots  will  soon  disappear.  Pitch  and  myrrh  melted  together  may 
be  used  with  equal  success. 

Chilblains, 

Generally  attack  the  hands  and  feet ; but  are  cured  by  the  same 
means,  on  whatever  part  they  may  appear. 

When  the  tingling  and  itching  are  first  felt  (a  sure  sign  of  chilblains,) 
the  parts,  hands  or  feet,  ought  to  be  bathed  in  cold  water,  or  rubbed 
with  snow,  till  the  sensation  subsides,  then  well  dried  ; or  the  following 
preventive  embrocation  may  be  used,  though  the  first  method  is  un- 
questionably the  best.  Take  spirits  of  turpentine  one  ounce,  balsam 
of  copavia  one  ounce.  Mix  them  together,  and  rub  the  afflicted  parts 
two  or  three  times  a day  with  a portion  of  it. 

Mr.  War  drop's  Chilblain  Embrocation . 

Take  tincture  of  cantharides  two  drachms ; soap  liniment  one  and 
a half  ounces.  Mix,  and  rub  the  affected  parts  therewith. 

, Warm  spirits  of  rosemary,  or  spirits  of  camphor,  are  useful  at  the 
first  appearance  of  chilblains.  Those  who  are  most  liable  to  chilblains, 
should,  on  the  approach  of  winter,  cover  the  parts  most  subject  to  be 
affected,  with  woolen  gloves  or  stockings,  and  not  expose  the  hands  or 
feet  too  precipitately  to  wet  or  cold,  or,  as  before  observed,  to  a con- 
siderable degree  of  heat. 


Hints  to  Ladies. 

btair  carpets  should  always  have  a slip  of  paper  put  under  them,  at 
and  over  the  edge  of  every  stair,  which  is  the  part  where  they  first 
wear  out,  in  order  to  lessen  the  friction  of  the  carpets  against  the 
boards  beneath.  The  strips  should  be  within  an  inch  or  two  as  lon<r 
as  the  carpet  is  wide,  and  about  four  or  five  inches  in  breadth,  so  as 
o lie  a distance  from  each  stair.  This  simple  plan,  so  easy  of  execu- 


118 


THE  INVALID’S  MANUAL. 


tion,  will,  we  know,  preserve  a stair  carpet  half  as  long  again  as  h 
would  last  without  the  strips  of  paper. 


THE  INVALID’S  MANUAL. 

HOW  TO  CURE  DYSPEPSIA,  OR  THE  ART  OF  ATTAIN- 
ING  AND  PRESERVING  HIGH  HEALTH. 

It  is  an  acknowledged  fact  that  there  are  fewer  individuals  in  the 
constant  enjoyment  of  robust  health  in  this  country,  according  to  it3 
population,  than  among  any  other  people.  The  want  of  a proper 
physical  education,  and  an  intense  application  to  business,  are  -among 
the  most  obvious  causes  for  this  phenomenon. 

Having  been,  for  a considerable  part  of  my  life,  an  invalid,  I have 
made  the  art  of  regaining  and  preserving  health  a subject  of  the  most 
careful  and  elaborate  study,  and  I am  firmly  of  the  opinion  that  almost 
every  individual  not  absolutely  broken  down,  has  it  completely  within 
his  power  to  compass  this  attainment. 

As  I have  now  established,  in  my  own  mind,  a complete  system  or 
code  of  principles  relative  to  the  preservation  of  health,  I propose  in 
this,  and  the  succeeding  numbers  of  the  “ Manual,”  to  give  such  an 
expositkm  of  the  subject  as  I am  entirely  confident  contains  the  true 
secret  of  reaching  this  object,  and  of  curing  all  those  maladies  now 
so  prevalent,  that  are  usually  spoken  of  as  dyspepsia,  liver  complaint, 
nervousness,  hypochondria,  &c. 

Of  late  years,  there  has  been  a multitude  of  theories  and  systems 
put  forth  for  the  cure  of  this  class  of  complaints ; one  (Halstead)  says, 
knead  the  stomach ; another  (Graham)  prescribes  the  use  of  bran 
bread  as  indispensable  ; a third  (Banning)  has  a sort  of  lace,  which  he 
says  performs  wonders,  and  so  on.  Now  I do  not  wish  to  say  that 
these  systems  are  all  perfectly  false,  on  the  contrary,  I believe  all  of 
them  contain  more  or  less  truth,  but  their  propagators  being  men  of 
narrow  minds,  and  moreover,  being  actuated  by  selfish  motives,  push 
their  views  to  the  most  absurd  limits.  The  poor  invalid  who  has, 
mayhap,  tried  medicines  of  all  sorts,  when  he  takes  up  one  of  them  as 
a last  resource,  and  does  not  find  the  relief  he  has  been  promised, 
very  naturally  arrives  at  the  conclusion,  that  in  his  case,  systems  of 
diet  or  regimen  have  as  little  efficacy  as  prescriptions  of  medicine. 
But  in  this  he  is  in  error,  for  there  can  be  no  question  in  the  mind  ot 
any  one  who  has  given  much  reflection  to  this  subject,  that  no  perma- 
nent cure  can  be  made  for  this  class  of  diseases  except  in  and  by  a 
proper  course  of  diet  and  regimen.  A cure,  in  such  cases,  depends 
upon  a few  plain  principles  strictly  followed ; these  I shall  now  pro- 
ceed to  lay  down  in  the  order  of  their  importance,  with  the  cautionary 
remark,  that  I hope  no  one  who  takes  up  some  one  of  them  for  a few 
weeks,  and  does  not  get  well,  will  thereby  conclude  that  it  is  of  no 
avail.  No ; the  invalid,  if  he  would  regain  his  health,  must  put  in 


TftE  INVALID’S  MANUAL. 


119 


practice  all  the  means  requisite  for  that  purpose,  and  pursue  them 
rigorously  and  systematically. 

1 now  proceed  to  give  what  I shall  term  the  first  fundamental 

PRINCIPLE  IN  THE  ART  OF  PRESERVING  AND  ATTAINING  HIGH  HEALTH, 

which  is, 

To  give  the  Skin  a thorough  cleaning , at  least  as  often  as  once 
in  every  twenty  four  hours. 

How  to  do  it. — It  is  of  little  use,  I have  found,  to  tell  a person  to  dc 
a thing  to  which  he  is  not  accustomed,  without  you,  at  the  same  time, 
give  him  some  ready  and  easy  method  by  which  he  may  do  it ; I shall, 
therefore,  here  give  a means  by  which  every  one  may  indulge  in  that 
greatest  of  all  luxuries,  as  well  as  an  essential  means  of  preserving 
health — a cold  bath — as  jften  as  he  chooses.  First,  then,  get  four 
yards  of  cotton  cloth,  cloth  of  about  one  yard  in  width,  cut  it  in  two 
in  the  middle,  and  sew  the  pieces  together  lengthwise,  sew  also  round 
the  edges  a piece  of  rope  of  at  least  half  an  inch  in  diameter,  then 
take  it  to  a painter,  and  get  him  to  put  upon  it  two  or  three  coats  of 
paint  to  make  it  thoroughly  water-proof.  You  will  then  have  a bath- 
ing mat  elevated  at  the  edges,  and  two  yards  square,  which  is  large 
enough  to  enable  the  most  careless  to  make  use  of  in  the  nicest  bed- 
room, without  leaving  any  slops  upon  the  carpet.  When  you  are  travel- 
ing, it  can  and  should  be  taken  with  you,  so  that  whenever  you  can 
get  a pitcher  of  water,  you  will  have  the  means  of  taking  a bath. 
N.  B.  A mat  made  of  India  rubber  will  answer  the  same  purpose,  but 
is  not  quite  so  cheap. 

Now,  for  the  bath.  Spread  your  mat-nicely  on  the  carpet,  before 
and  under  your  washstand,  the  last  thing  you  do  before  going  to  bed, 
so  that  it  will  collect  every  drop  of  water.  Have  in  your  room,  or 
what  is  better,  have  brought  to  you,  from  six  to  twelve  quarts  of  the 
purest  and  coolest  water  you  can  get,  pour  it  into  the  washbowl,  then 
commence  by  dipping  the  face  into  it,  then  wet  the  neck,  back  part  of 
the  head,  arms  and  hands,  then  with  the  palms  of  the  hands,  or  with 
a sponge,  if  you  like  it  better,  throw  it  all  over  your  person  as  quickly 
as  possible.  Be  careful  to  have  a good  quantity  run  down  in  front 
and  upon  the  spine ; in  fact,  give  every  part  of  your  person  a rapid 
but  thorough  wetting ; then  wipe  rapidly  with  a coarse  towel,  and 
afterwards  apply  the  iiesh-brush  (one  with  a long  handle  is  the  best) 
until  you  produce  a healthful  glow  throughout  the  system.  Well, 
your  bath  is  completed,  and  you  feel  at  least  a hundred  per  cent,  bet- 
ter than  you  would  have  done  if  you  had  not  have  taken  it.  The  only 
thing  now  that  remains  to  do,  is  to  take  up  your  mat  by  the  four  cor- 
ners, and  empty  it  into  a slop-pail,  and  your  room  is  in  as  perfect 
order  as  if  you  had  not  attempted  this  formidable  operation. 

I wish  I could  impress  upon  my  readers,  not  what  I think  of  the 
value  of  this  process,  for  that  would  be  impossible — but  what  I know 
they  will  think  of  it  after  they  have  practised  it  for  a few  weeks- 
To  the  weakly  and  sedentary,  it  will  add  tenfold  to  the  charms  of 
existence,  and  will  at  once  give  them  a better  appetite,  an  easier  di- 


120 


THE  INVALID  S MANUAL. 


gestion,  and  a bolder  energy,  and  it  will  be  a greater  beautifier  of  tno 
complexion  than  all  the  cosmetics  sold  in  Broadway. 

There  are  many  people,  so  irrational  are  the  habits  of  society,  that 
will  be  frightened  at  the  idea  of  making  use  of  cold  water  in  this  way. 
Oh  dear ! I should  take  my  death  of  cold,  says  some  pretty  miss, 
whose  skin,  probably,  has  never  had  a perfect  ablution  for  years,  and, 
as  a necessary  consequence,  is  thoroughly  clogged  with  impurities, 
and  thus  deprived  of  its  most  essential  attributes  as  a secreting  organ. 
Now  we  must  try  and  convince  such  that  a cold  bath,  taken  daily,  is 
not  only  perfectly  safe,  but  is  a positive  luxury.  Let  all  such  as  labor 
under  this  form  of  hydrophobia,  commence  gradually  by  wetting  at 
first  only  the  arms,  neck,  &c,,  the  next  morning  make  a still  further 
application,  and  so  on,  till  they  shall  have  obtained  sufficient  courage 
to  take  a full  bath,  but  be  careful  to  use  the  flesh  brush,  or  coarse 
towel,  or,  what  is  better  than  either,  perhaps,  hair  gloves,  to  produce  a 
healthy  glow  in  the  system ; or,  if  they  like  it  better,  they  can  com- 
mence with  water  made  slightly  tepid,  and  every  succeeding  morning 
use  water  more  and  more  cold,  till  they  shall  be  able  to  make  use  of 
the  coldest  iced  water. 

A few  cautionary  remarks  respecting  this  method  of  using  cold 
water  will  not  be  out  of  place.  The  good  or  bad  effects  of  a bath  are 
always  immediately  apparent ; you  feel  them  at  once,  if  at  all.  If 
one  is  in  feeble  health,  he  must  be  cautious,  and  not  overdo  the  matter. 
Then,  a very  little  water,  slowly  applied,  is  the  best ; if  in  firm,  vig- 
orous health,  a common  shower  bath  is  far  better  than  the  one  we 
have  prescribed,  as  it  will  give  a greater  shock  to  the  system,  and  will 
cause  a more  powerful  reaction. 


ON  DIET. 

Few  persons  of  delicate  health  are  aware  how  much  their  sufferings 
might  be  alleviated  by  adopting  a light  diet.  This  applies  more  es- 
pecially to  such  as  are  at  all  troubled  with  indigestion  or  any  of  its 
concomitants;  to  such,  a light,  nutritious  food,  that  will  sit  easy  upon 
the  stomach,  is  indispensable,  if  they  would  enjoy  any  comfort. 

We  give  below  recipes  for  a few  articles  of  diet,  which  we  would 
strongly  urge  upon  the  attention  of  those  who  are  at  all  troubled  with 
indigestion.  They  will  find,  from  their  adoption,  the  most  surprising 
relief.  Literary  men,  that  are  compelled  to  exercise  their  minds  much, 
and  their  bodies  little ; females,  who  are  much  confined  within  doors  ; 
and  indeed  all  who  lead  a sedentary  life,  will  find  the  prescriptions  be- 
low of  the  greatest  service. 

Invalids,  when  they  find  it  necessary  to  commence  a dietetic  reform, 
usually  begin  by  making  a selection  from  their  ordinary  articles  of 
food,  but  I believe  the  dishes  prescribed  below  will  be  found  far  more 
beneficial  than  anything  in  ordinary  use.  Many  people  will  wish, 
probably,  for  a greater  variety ; but  if  they  eat  for  gaining  strength, 
and  not  for  the  mere  pleasure  of  gustatory  enjoyment,  they  will  find 


THE  INVALID’S  MANUAL. 


121 


t^ese  few  articles  with  a little  Graham  bread  (no  batter)  will  be  far 
more  beneficial  than  the  most  varied  diet.  I have  lived  upon  them  for 
months  with  great  satisfaction,  and  soon  lost  all  relish  for  other  kinds 
of  food : however,  what  will  suit  one  person  will  not  always  suit 
another,  and  I,  therefore,  leave  every  one  to  judge  for  himself.  * I shall 
hereafter  take  up  the  subject  of  diet  in  the  series  of  articles  44  How  to 
Cure  Dyspepsia,”  &c.,  and  give  it  a thorough  discussion. 

The  first  recipe  which  follows  for  making  what  the  Irish  term  fiim- 
mery,  or  pudding  made  out  of  oat  meal  starch,  is  perfectly  light,  very 
nutritious,  and  at  the  same  time  laxative.  Until  one  gets  accustomed 
to  it,  it  is  not  so  palatable  as  some  other  dishes,  but  with  syrup,  or  mo- 
lasses, or  good  milk,  it  soon  becomes  agreeable.  In  Great  Britain, 
where  oat  meal  is  more  common  than  in  this  country,  it  is  universally 
prescribed  for  invalids,  particularly  those  of  consumptive  habits,  and 
not  for  invalids  alone,  but  many  persons  comparatively  hearty,  will 
find  great  advantage  in  adopting  it  as  an  article  of  daily  diet.  Their 
minds  will  be  clearer,  their  bodies  more  active,  and  spirits  freer.  It 
is  made  in  this  wise  : 

(1.)  To  make  Oat  Meal  Starch  Pudding, 

Take,  say,  two  quarts  of  oat  meal,  and  pour  into  it  sufficient  pure 
cold  water  to  well  cover  it,  let  it  stand  about  two  days,  then  strain  it 
through  a sieve  or  cloth  into  a clean  vessel.  To  make  sure  that  you 
get  all  the  substance  out  of  the  meal,  after  the  first  water  is  drained 
off,  pour  on  it  more  water,  and  rub  it  well.  Let  the  water  stand  till 
well  settled,  then  pour  off  the  top,  and  at  the  bottom  will  be  found  the 
starch.  To  make  this  perfectly  pure  and  white,  after  you  have  turned 
off  the  first  water,  pour  in  on  top  of  the  starch  a little  more  pure 
water,  and  after  it  has  swelled,  pour  it  off  as  before ; this  operation 
may  be  repeated  till  the  starch  becomes  perfectly  fine  and  white.  It 
is  then  fit  for  cooking.  This  is  done  simply  by  putting  a few  spoonfuls 
into  a saucepan  with  fresh  water,  and  a little  salt.  It  will  be  done 
with  about  four  minutes  boiling. 

(2.)  To  make  Potato  Starch  Pudding. 

Take  two  or  three  spoonfuls  of  potato  starch,  mix  it  in  half  a pins 
of  milk,  beat  into  it  two  eggs,  then  pour  all  into  a saucepan  containing 
half  a pint  of  boiling  milk  a little  salted,  let  it  boil  two  or  three  min- 
utes, (stirring  it  well  all  the  time,)  as  otherwise  the  egg  will  get  over- 
done, and  become  hard  and  indigestible.  Eat  with  sugar  or  molasses. 

Mr.  Fowler,  the  well  known  phrenologist,  says  in  one  of  his  publi- 
cations, this  is  the  best  article  of  diet  he  has  ever  found,  and  he  has 
been  a dyspeptic  for  twenty  years.  I think  every  one  who  gives  it  a 
fair  trial  will  agree  with  him,  nothing  can  be  more  easily  digested, 
while  with  the  eggs  it  is  very  nutritious,  and  is  at  the  same  time  very 
palatable;  it  may  be  added,  also,  that  it  is  very  cheap,  for  the  whole 
expense  of  a good  meal  from  it,  need  not  exceed  six  or  eight  cents. 

N.  B.  As  many  weak  stomachs  will  find  two  eggs  at  a meal  more 


122 


THE  INVi  UD’S  MANUAL. 


than  they  can  master,  I would  recommend  that  if  they  eat  of  this  dish 
three  times  a day,  as  many  invalids  should,  that  at  breakfast  it  be 
made  with  but  one  egg,  at  dinner  with  two,  and  for  supper  with  but 
the  yolk  of  one,  or  without  any. 

The  only  objection  that  can  possibly  be  urged  against  this  article  is, 
that  it  has  a tendency  to  constipate  the  bowels.  In  that  case  I would 
recommend  the  injection  heretofore  prescribed,  or  what  will  be  pre- 
ferred by  some,  the  remedies  for  constipation  prescribed  by  the  Ho- 
moeopathic practitioners.  I do  not  endorse  all  the  theories  of  this 
sect,  but  I have  found  their  remedies  for  constipation  very  beneficial. 

Potatoe  starch  is  to  be  obtained  at  the  groceries,  being  sold  by  them 
as  Boston  arrow-root.  As  many  people,  however,  prefer  to  make  it 
themselves,  1 add  a method  of  doing  it. 

(3.)  To  make  Potato  Starch. 

Take  a quantity  of  good  mealy  potatoes,  and  after  having  them 
nicely  peeled  and  washed,  grate  them  on  a fine  grater,  (if  the  grater 
is  too  coarse,  much  of  the  virtue  of  the  potato  will  be  wasted  ;)  pour 
into  the  pulpy  mass  enough  pure  cold  water  to  cover  it  a few  inches ; 
after  it  has  well  settled,  strain  the  whole  through  a sieve  or  cloth  into 
a convenient  vessel ; pour  into  the  sieve  fresh  washings  of  water,  and 
squeeze  the  potatoes  well,  so  as  to  be  sure  you  get  all  the  nutriment 
out  of  them  ; let  the  water  stand  for  a short  time,  and  then  pour  off ; 
there  will  be  found  at  the  bottom  a quantity  of  starch.  To  render  it 
quite  pure  and  nice,  more  fresh  water  should  be  poured  into  it,  and 
after  having  settled,  again  poured  ofl*.  This  may  be  repeated  a second, 
and  even  a third  time,  to  the  improvement  of  the  starch. 

(4.)  To  make  Buckwheat  Pudding • 

This  is  also  a very  light,  agreeable  pudding,  and  at  the  same  time 
decidedly  laxative.  Take  half  a pint  of  buckwheat  flour,  mix  it  with 
cold  milk  and  eggs,  if  the  stomach  will  bear  them,  add  a little  salt, 
and  boil  in  cold  water  two  or  three  minutes.  This  pudding  made  of 
Indian  meal  is,  by  many,  preferred  to  the  buckwheat,  but  is  not  so  lax- 
ative as  when  made  of  buckwheat.  If  made  of  wheat  flour,  it  is  de- 
cidedly constipating. 

(5.)  To  make  Flour  Caudle. 

Into  five  spoonfuls  of  the  purest  water,  ruub  smooth  one  dessert- 
spoonful of  fine  flour.  Set  over  the  fire  five  tablespoonfuls  of  new 
milk,  and  put  two  bits  of  sugar  into  it : the  moment  it  boils,  pour  into 
it  the  flour  and  water,  and  stir  it  over  a slow  fire  twenty  minutes.  It  is 
a nourishing  and  gentle  astringent  food,  particularly  for  babies  who 
have  weak  bowels. 

(6.)  To  make  Milk  Porridge . 

Make  a fine  gruel  of  cracked  corn,  grits,  or  oat  meal,  long  boiW ; 
strain  off,  either  add  cold  or  warm  milk,  as  may  be  approved.  Serve 
with  toast. 


THE  INVALID’S  MANUAL.  123 

HINTS  ON  THE  USE  AND  CHOICE  OF  SPECTACLES. 

Most  persons  begin  to  feel  the  necessity  for  some  assistance  to  their 
eyes  in  reading  and  working  after  the  age  of  thirty-five ; though  even 
the  commencement  and  progress  of  the  deterioration  of  the  eyes  vary 
according  to  the  degree  of  health  the  individual  has  enjoyed,  their 
original  formation,  the  use  that  has  been  made  of  them,  &c. ; so  that 
some  persons  have  as  much  occasion  for  spectacles  at  twenty-five  as 
others  have  at  fifty ; and  others,  on  the  contrary,  have  as  goon  sight  at 
fifty  as  they  had  at  twenty-five.  Still,  the  average  time  at  which 
glasses  are  needed  for  reading,  may  be  said  to  be  from  thirty-five  to  forty- 
five.  After  this  latter  period  of  life,  the  power  of  adjustment  pos- 
sessed by  the  eye  in  youth  fails  ; and  those  who  continue  to  perceive 
distant  objects,  clearly,  are  unable  to  see  plainly  those  which  are  near ; 
and  the  man  who  can  read  the  smallest  print  unfatigued  without  glass- 
es, cannot  distinguish  anything  distinctly  at  the  distance  of  ten  yards. 

Among  the  many  vulgar  errors  that  are  daily  injuring  those  who 
cherish  them,  few  have  done  more  injury  to  the  eyes  than  the  notion 
that  all  persons  of  the  same  age  require  glasses  of  the  same  focus. 
Nothing  can  be  more  absurd ; as  well  might  the  same  remedies  be  ap- 
plied indiscriminately  to' all  diseases,  provided  the  ages  of  the  sufferers 
but  tally ! 

The  proper  selection  of  glasses,  (says  Brewster,)  for  imperfect 
vision,  is  a point  of  much  deeper  importance  than  is  generally  believed. 
An  oculist  who  is  only  acquainted  with  the  diseases  of  the  human  eye, 
without  possessing  any  knowledge  of  it  as  an  optical  instrument,  is 
often  led  professionally  to  recommend  glasses  when  they  ought  not  to 
be  used,  and  to  fix  on  focal  lengths  entirely  unfit  for  the  purpose  to 
which  they  are  applied ; and  the  mere  vendor  of  lenses  and  spectacles 
is  still  more  frequently  in  the  habit  of  proffering  his  deleterious  coun- 
sels.” 

The  most  general,  and  probably  the  best  direction  which  can  be 
given  to  those  who  feel  that  glasses  are  necessary  to  enable  them  to 
use  their  eyes  with  comfort  to  themselves,  and  advantage  to  their  oc- 
cupation, whatever  that  may  be,  is  to  make  choice  of  such  as  repre- 
sent objects  nearest  to  their  natural  state;  for,  to  be  exactly  suitable 
to  the  eye,  spectacles  ought  neither  to  magnify  nor  minify,  but  should 
enable  us  to  read  or  work  without  creating  any  straining  or  unnatural 
exercise  of  the  pupil. 

The  great  design  of  spectacles  is  to  give  the  eyes  of  the  wearer 
ease;  and  although  this  is  also  attended  by  increased  power  of  appli- 
cation, yet  no  glasses  can  be  sai  i to  be  properly  accommodated  to  the 
sight  of  the  individual,  which  do  not,  with  additional  capability,  also 
procure  rest  and  comfort  to  the  eyes.  If  they  weary  them,  we  may 
conclude,  either  that  we  have  no  occasion  for  any,  or  that  those  we 
have  are  improper  for  us,  or  defectively  made. 

Glasses  are  of  two  kinds — convex  and  concave.  Convex  glasses  are 
for  the  use  of  those  who  have  what  is  commonly  called  an  old  or  long 
sight,  and  are  unable  to  read  or  see  small  objects  near  them ; concave 
glasses  are  for  the  use  of  those  who  are  short-sighted,  to  enable  them 


124 


THE  INVALID’S  MANUAL. 


to  see  distinctly  objects  at  the  same  distance  at  which  they  were  able 
to  perceive  them  before  they  became  short-sighted. 

“ When  the  eye  (says  Dr.  Young)  is  possessed  of  too  great  refrac- 
tive power  for  the  distinct  perception  of  distant  objects,  the  pupil  is 
generally  large,  so  that  the  confusion  of  the  image  is  somewhat  les- 
sened by  partially  closing  the  eyelids ; and  from  this  habit  an  eye  so 
formed  is  called  myopic.  In  such  cases,  by  the  help  of  a concave 
lens,  the  divergence  of  the  rays  of  light  may  be  increased,  and  a vir- 
tual image  may  be  formed,  at  a distance,  so  much  smaller  than  that  of 
the  object  as  to  afford  perfect  vision.  For  a long-sighted  or  presby- 
opic eye,  on  the  contrary,  a convex  lens  is  required,  in  order  to  obtain 
a virtual  image  at  a greater  distance  than  the  object ; and  it  often 
happens  that  the  rays  must  be  made  not  only  to  diverge  less  than  be- 
fore, but  even  to  converge  toward  a focus  behind  such  an  eye,  in  order 
to  make  its  vision  distinct.  Presbyopic  persons  have,  in  general,  a 
small  pupil,  and  therefore  seldom  acquire  the  habit  of  covering  any 
part  of  it  with  their  eyelids.” 

If  the  humors  of  the  eye,  through  age  or  weakness,  have  shrunk  or 
decayed,  the  cornea  will  then  be  too  flat,  and  the  rays  not  being  suffi- 
ciently bent  or  retracted,  arrive  at  the  retina  before  they  are  united 
in  a focus,  and  would  meet,  if  not  intercepted,  in  some  place  behind 
it.  They,  therefore,  (unless  influenced  by  artificial  means,)  do  not 
make  an  impression  sufficiently  correct  and  forcible,  but  form  an  indis- 
tinct picture  on  the  bottom  of  the  eye,  and  exhibit  the  object  in  a con- 
fused and  imperfect  manner.  This  defect  of  the  eye  is  therefore  rem- 
edied by  a double-convex  lens,  such  as  the  common  spectacle-glasses, 
which,  by  causing  the  rays  to  converge  sooner  than  they  otherwise 
would,  afford  that  aid  to  this  defect  of  nature  which  the  circumstances 
of  the  case  may  require,  the  convexity  of  the  glass  being  always  pro- 
portioned to  the  deficiency  in  vision. 

If,  on  the  contrary,  the  cornea  is  too  convex,  the  rays  will  unite  in 
a focus  before  their  arrival  at  the  retina,  and  the  image  will  also  be  in- 
distinct. This  defect  is  remedied  by  concave  glasses,  which  cause  the 
rays  to  diverge ; and  consequently,  by  being  properly  adapted  to  the 
case,  will  enable  the  eye  to  form  the  image  in  its  proper  place. 

By  the  aid  of  convex  glasses  of  thirty-six  or  thirty  inches  focus, 
nersons,  whose  sight  is  beginning  to  be  unequal  to  read  small  print,  or 
£o  work  without  fatiguing  or  paining  their  eyes,  will  be  enabled  to  do 
either ; and,  if  properly  chosen,  by  the  ease  and  comfort  they  afford 
will  tend  materially  to  preserve  the  sight : hence  their  name  of  pre- 
servers, which,  however,  is  a term  as  applicable  to  all  the  various  gra- 
dations of  glasses.  The  length  of  time  that  will  elapse  before  it  may 
3e  necessary  to  change  these  first  spectacles,  must  depend  upon  the 
i$ame  circumstances  which  I have  mentioned  as  creating  the  necessity 
for  using  them  at  all.  However,  it  may  be  said  that  they  will  com- 
monly serve  for  reading  in  the  daytime  about  six  or  seven  years. 

As  soon  as  the  eye  begins  to  be  little  better  with  the  glasses  used 
than  without  them,  it  is  time  to  change  them  for  more  powerful  mag- 
nifiers. and  the  second  sight,  or  thirty  inches’  focus,  are  necessary ; 
though  these  should  not  be  too  hastily  adopted  by  those  who  wish  to 


THE  YOUNG  MAN’S  MANUAL. 


125 


preserve  their  sight  unimpaired  to  old  age ; but  they  should  be  con- 
tent to  use  them  as  sparingly  as  possible — only  when  unavoidable. 
Many  have  worn  out  their  sight  prematurely  by  using  spectacles  of 
too  great  a magnifying  power,  or  of  improper  materials  and  faulty 
workmanship,  to  which  their  eyes  have  soon  become  accustomed ; but 
they  speedily  exhaust  the  resources  of  art,  and,  before  death,  have  be- 
come totally  blind. 

Those  who  are  about  to  commence  wearing  glasses,  as  they  cannot 
know  what  will  suit  their  eyes,  will  do  well  to  borrow  a set  of  glasses,; 
consisting  of  spectacles  of  regular  gradations  of  power,  and  try  at 
home,  for  a few  days,  which  suit  them  best : they  should  make  the  ex- 
periment by  day-light  and  candle-light,  in  that  posture  of  the  body  in 
which  they  will  be  most  used. 

Almost  all  persons,  on  first  wearing  spectacles,  if  they  keep  them 
on  a few  hours,  complain  of  fatigue  and  uneasy  sensations  in  their  eyes  ; 
and  this,  even  though  they  have  been  judiciously  chosen,  and  when 
they  were  needful.  Such  weariness  will  be  most  felt  by  candle-light, 
and  is  caused,  no  doubt,  by  the  eyes,  for  some  time  nefore  resorting  to 
glasses,  having  been  tasked  beyond  their  ability  ; and  not,  as  is  com- 
monly supposed,  by  the  artificial  light,  though  that,  probably,  contrib- 
utes to  it. 

Those  whose  avocations  or  amusements  render  the  assistance  of 
magnifiers  necessary,  ought  to  bear  in  mind,  that  the  lower  the  degree 
of  magnifying  power  possessed  by  their  glasses,  the  less  the  eye  will 
be  fatigued  by  them,  the  less  constrained  the  position  of  the  body  in 
using  them,  and  the  larger,  as  well  as  more  uniformly  distinct,  the 
field  of  view  embraced  by  them.  Where  only  a moderate  magnifying 
power  is  required,  I would  recommend,  instead  of  a single  magnifier, 
the  use  of  spectacles  of  nine  inches’  focus,  which  will  enable  the  eye 
to  be  directed  to  minute  objects  without  weariness  for  a longer  time 
than  if  an  eye-glass  only  be  used,  as  well  as  being  of  material  benefit 
in  preserving  one  of  the  eyes  from  becoming  injured,  by  being  con- 
stantly unemployed. 

The  use  of  spectacles  is  every  way  preferable  for  short-sighted  per- 
sons to  single  eye-glasses  ; a strong  confirmation  of  the  truth  of  which 
may  be  found  in  the  fact  that  Mr.  George  Adams,  a late  highly  cele- 
brated English  optician,  asserted  that  he  did  not  recollect  an  instance 
of  a short-sighted  person  who  had  occasion  to  increase  the  depth  of 
his  glasses,  if  he  began  with  spectacles ; but,  on  the  other  hand,  he 
knew  many  cases  where  only  one  eye  had  been  used,  in  which  the 
individuals  had  been  obliged  repeatedly  to  change  their  glasses  for 
concaves  of  higher  power.  Indeed,  the  advantage  of  a pair  of  spec- 
tacles over  an  eye-glass  is  very  evident,  from  the  circumstance  that 
all  objects  are  much  brighter  when  seen  with  both  eyes  than  when 
looked  at  with  only  one. 


THE  YOUNG  MAN'S  MANUAL. 

My  ittle  book,  in  my  humble  opinion,  contains  a great  deal  of  val 


1 26 


THE  YOUNG  MAN’S  MANUAL 


liable  information,  but  the  three  prescriptions  which  follow  are  worth 
infinitely  more  than  all  the  rest.  I strongly  commend  them  to  the  at- 
tention of  every  young  man  into  whose  hands  this  book  may  fall. 

(1.)  Upon  getting  a Wife. 

Young  man  ! if  you  have  arrived  at  the  right  point  in  life  for  it,  let 
every  other  consideration  give  way  to  that  of  getting  married.  Don’t 
think  of  doing  anything  else.  Keep  poking  about  among  the  rubbish 
of  the  world  till  you  have  stirred  up  a gem  worth  having  in  the  shape 
of  a wife.  Never  think  of  delaying  the  matter ; for  you  know  that 
delays  are  dangerous.  A good  wife  is  the  most  constant  and  faithful 
companion  you  can  possibly  have  by  your  side,  while  performing  the 
journey  of  life — a dog  isn’t  a touch  to  her.  She  is  of  more  service, 
too,  than  you  may  at  first  imagine.  She  can  “ smooth  your  linen  and 
your  cares”  for  you — mend  your  trousers,  and  perchance  your  man- 
ners— sweeten  your  sour  moments  as  well  as  your  tea  and  coffee  for 
you — ruffle,  perhaps,  your  shirt  bosom,  but  not  your  temper  ; and,  in- 
stead of  sowing  the  seeds  of  sorrow  in  your  path,  she  will  sew  but- 
tons on  your  shirts,  and  plant  happiness  instead  of  harrow ’teeth  in 
your  bosom.  Yes — and  if  you  are  too  confoundedly  lazy  or  too  proud 
to  do  such  work  yourself,  she  will  chop  wood,  and  dig  potatoes  for 
dinner : for  her  love  for  her  husband  is  such  that  she  will  do  anything 
to  please  him — except  receive  company  in  her  everyday  clothes. 

When  a woman  loves,  she  loves  with  a double-distilled  devotedness ; 
and  when  she  hates,  she  hates  on  the  high  pressure  principle.  Her 
love  is  as  deep  as  the  ocean,  strong  as  a hempen  halter,  and  as  immutable 
as  the  rock  of  ages.  She  won’t  change  it,  except  it  is  in  a very  strong 
fit  of  jealousy,  and  even  then  it  lingers,  as  if  loth  to  part,  like  evening 
twilights  at  the  windows  of  the  west.  Get  married,  by  all  means. 
All  the  excuses  you  can  fish  up  against  “ doing  the  deed”  ain’t  worth 
a spoonful  of  pigeon’s  milk.  Mark  this — if,  blest  with  health  and 
employment,  you  are  not  able  to  support  a wife,  depend  upon  it  you 
are  not  capable  of  supporting  yourself.  Therefore,  so  much  more  the 
need  of  annexation ; for,  in  union,  as  well  as  an  onion,  there  is 
strength.  Get  married,  I repeat,  young  man  ! Concentrate  your  af- 
fections upon  one  object,  and  not  distribute  them  crumb  by  crumb, 
among  a host  of  Susans,  Sarahs,  Marys,  Loranas,  Olives,  Elizas,  Au- 
gustas, Betsies,  Peggies,  and  Dorothies — allowing  each  scarcely  enough 
to  nibble  at.  Get  married,  and  have  somebody  to  cheer  you  as  you 
journey  through  this  “lowly  vale  of  tears” — somebody  to  scour  up 
your  whole  life,  and  whatever  linen  you  possess,  in  some  sort  of  Sun- 
day-go-to-meeting  order. 

Young  woman,  I need  not  tell  you  to  look  out  for  your  husband,  for 
I know  that  you  are  fixing  contrivances  to  catch  one,  and  are  as  nat- 
urally on  the  watch  as  a cat  is  for  a mouse.  But  one  word  in  your 
ear,  if  you  please.  Don’t  bait  your  hook  with  an  artificial  fly  of 
beauty ; if  you  do,  the  chances  are  ten  to  one  that  you  will  catch  a 
gudgeon — some  silly  fool  of  a fish  that  isn’t  worth  his  weight  in  saw- 
dust. Array  the  inner  lady  with  the  beautiful  garments  of  virtue, 
modesty,  truth,  morality,  and  unsophisticated  love ; and  you  will  dis- 


THE  1 i^AN’s  MANUAL.  - 

pose  of  yourself  quicker,  and  to  much  better  advantage  than  you 
would  if  you  displayed  all  the  gew-gaws,  flippejigs,  fol-derols,  and  fad- 
dle-de-dees  in  the  universe.  Remember  that  it  is  an  awful  thing  to 
live  and  die  a self-manufactured  old  maid. 

My  hearers— get  married  while  you  are  young  ; and  then  when  the 
frosts  of  age  shall  fall  and  wither  the  flowers  of  affection,  the  leaves 
of  connubial  love  will  still  be  green,  and,  perchance,  a joyous  offspring 
will  surround  and  grace  the  parent  tree,  like  ivy  twining  and  adorning 
the  time-scathed  oak. 

(2.)  Upon  choosing  a Wife. 

Young  man,  a word  in  your  ear,  when  you  choose  a wife.  Don’t 
be  fascinated  with  a dashing  creature,  fond  of  society,  vain,  artistical, 
and  showy  in  dress.  You  do  not  want  a doll  or  a coquette  for  a part- 
ner. Choose  rather  one  of  those  retiring,  modest,  sensible  girls,  who 
have  learnt  to  deny  themselves,  and  possess  some  decided  character. 
But  above  all,  seek  for  a good  disposition.  No  trait  of  character  is 
more  valuable  in  a female  than  the  possession  of  a sweet  temper. 
Home  can  never  be  made  happy  without  it.  It  is  like  the  flowers  that 
spring  up  in  the  pathway,  reviving  and  cheering  us.  Let  a man  go 
home  at  night,  wearied  and  worn  by  the  toils  of  the  day,  how  soothing 
is  a word  dictated  by  a good  disposition  1 It  is  sunshine  falling  on 
his  heart.  He  is  happy,  and  the  cares  of  life  are  forgotten. 

(3.)  How  to  treat  a Wife . 

First  get  a wife— secondly  be  patient.  You  may  have  great  trials 
and  perplexities  in  your  business  with  the  world ; but  do  not  therefore 
carry  to  your  home  a clouded  or  contracted  brow.  Your  wife  may 
have  had  trials,  which,  though  of  less  magnitude,  may  have  been  as 
hard  to  bear.  A kind,  consoling,  and  tender  look,  will  do  wonders  in 
chasing  from  her  brow  all  clouds  of  gloom.  You  encounter  your 
difficulties  in  the  open  air,  fanned  by  heaven’s  cool  breezes,  but  your 
wife  is  often  shut  up  from  these  healthful  influences,  and  her  health 
fails,  and  her  spirits  lose  their  elasticity.  But  oh ! bear  with  her ; 
she  has  trials  and  sorrows  to  which  you  are  a stranger,  but  which 
your  tenderness  can  deprive  of  all  their  anguish.  Notice  kindly  her 
little  attentions  and  efforts  to  promote  your  comfort.  Do  not  take  them 
all  as  a matter  of  course , and  pass  them  by ; at  the  same  time  being 
very  sure  to  notice  any  omission  of  what  you  may  consider  her  duty 
to  you.  Do  not  treat  her  with  indifference,  if  you  would  not  sear  and 
palsy  her  heart,  which,  watered  by  kindness,  would,  to  the  latest  day 
of  your  existence,  throb  with  sincere  and  constant  affection. 

Sometimes  yield  your  wishes  to  hers.  She  has  preferences  as  strong 
as  you,  and  perhaps  just  as  trying  to  her  to  yield  her  choice  as  to  you. 
Do  you  find  it  hard  to  yield  sometimes  ? Think  you  it  is  not  hard  for 
her  to  give  up  always  ? If  you  never  yield  to  her  wis^s,  there  is 
danger  that  she  will  think  you  are  selfish,  and  care  only  ftr  yourself, 
and°with  such  feelings  she  cannot  love  you  as  she  ought.  Again, 
show  yourself  manly,  so  that  your  wife  can  look  up  to  you,  and  feel 
that  ion  will  ad:  nobly,  and  that  she  can  confide  in  your  judgment. 


128 


THE  YOUNG  MAN’S  MANUAL. 


HINTS  ON  ETIQUETTE. 

(1-)  In  all  your  associations,  keep  constantly  in  view  the  adage, 
" too  much  freedom  breeds  contempt.5’ 

(2.)  Never  be  guilty  of  practical  jokes:  if  you  accustom  yourself 
to  them,  it  is  probable  you  will  become  so  habituated  as  to  commit 
them  upon  persons  who  will  not  allow  of  such  liberties  : I have  known 
a duel  to  arise  from  a slap  on  the  back. 

(3.)  If  there  be  another  chair  in  the  room,  do  not  offer  a lady  that 
from  which  you  have  just  risen. 

(4.)  Always  suspect  the  advances  of  any  person  who  may  wish  for 
your  acquaintance,  and  who  has  had  no  introduction : circumstances 
may  qualify  this  remark,  but  as  a general  principle,  acquaintances 
made  in  a public  room  or  place  of  amusement  are  not  desirable. 

(5.)  Never  converse  while  a person  is  singing ; it  is  an  insult  not 
only  to  the  singer,  but  to  the  company. 

(6.)  The  essential  part  of  good  breeding  is  the  practical  desire  to 
afford  pleasure,  and  to  avoid  giving  pain.  Any  man  possessing  this 
desire,  requires  only  opportunity  and  observation  to  make  him  a gen- 
tleman. 

(7.)  Always  take  off  your  hat  when  handing  a lady  to  her  carriage, 
or  the  box  of  a theatre,  or  a public  room. 

(8.)  If,  in  a public  promenade,  you  pass  and  re-pass  persons  of  your 
acquaintance,  it  is  only  necessary  to  salute  them  on  the  first  occasion. 

(9.)  Do  not  affect  singularity  of  dress  by  wearing  anything  that  is 
so  conspicuous  as  to  demand  attention  ; and  particularly  avoid  what  I 
believe  I must  call  the  ruffian  style. 

(10.)  Never  lose  your  temper  at  cards,  and  particularly  avoid  the 
exhibition  of  anxiety  or  vexation  at  want  of  success.  If  you  are 
playing  whist,  not  only  keep  your  temper,  but  hold  your  tongue  ; any 
intimation  to  your  partner  is  decidedly  ungentlemanly. 

(11.)  Let  presents  to  a lady  be  characterized  by  taste — not  remarka- 
ble for  intrinsic  value. 

(12.)  Except  under  very  decided  circumstances,  it  is  both  ungentle- 
manly  and  dangerous  to  cut  a person  : if  you  wish  to  rid  yourself  of 
any  one’s  society,  a cold  bow  in  the  street,  and  particular  ceremony  in 
the  circles  of  your  mutual  acquaintance,  is  the  best  mode  of  conduct 
to  adopt. 

(13.)  Never  introduce  your  own  affairs  for  the  amusement  of  a 
company ; it  shows  a sad  want  of  mental  cultivation,  or  excessive 
weakness  of  intellect : recollect,  also,  that  such  a discussion  cannot 
be  interesting  to  others,  and  that  the  probability  is  that  the  most  patient 
listener  is  a complete  gossip,  laying  the  foundation  for  some  tale  to 
make  you  appear  ridiculous. 


HOW  TO  WIN  A SWEET  HEART. 


129 


HOW  TO  WIN  A SWEET  HEART. 

The  attention  and  the  admiration  of  an  individual  of  the  opposite 
sex  may  he  obtained  in  various  ways  ■ and  love  may  be  and  is  often 
engendered  where  none  is  felt  by  the  opposite  party.  But  all  this 
is  accomplished  by  playing  upon  some  passion  or  passions  of  the 
individual  whose  love  is  desired  and  whose  hand  is  to  be  won. 
Thus  some  are  obtained  by  playing  upon  the  desire  for  wealth  or 
high  station  in  society ; others  through  their  pride,  by  flattery  of 
their  persons ; others  through  their  kindness,  by  exciting  their 
benevolent  feelings  : others  through  their  natural  amative  passions, 
by  exciting  the  desire  of  sexual  love  • others  by  showing  one’s  self 
to  possess,  or  by  pretending  to  possess,  kindred  sympathies  and  feel- 
ings— kindred  emotions  of  head  and  heart — kindred  likes  and 
desires — kindred  tastes  and  sentiments.  To  win  the  affections, 
therefore,  we  should  learn  the  character  of  the  individual  whose 
love  is  sought.  That  being  known,  success  is  to  be  obtained  by 
bringing  the  batteries  to  bear  properly  upon  the  prominent  traits 
of  that  character. 

True  love  arises  from  a principle  of  sympathy — from  a oneness  of 
feeling — from  a similarity  in  some  points  of  character,  although 
other  points  may  be  very  dissimilar, — from  showing  that  you  possess 
something  which  the  other  admires.  Acting  upon  this  you  may 
induce  in  another  love  for  you,  and  cement  the  affections  upon  you. 

Upon  this  subject,  I give  you  the  phrenological  teachings  of  0. 
S.  F owler,  who  says  : — 

“ If  approbativeness  predominate,  and  causality  be  moderate,  you 
may  flatter , and  if  the  brain  be  rather  small,  put  it  on  thickly. 
Praise  their  dress,  features,  appearance,  on  particular  occasions, 
and  any  and  everything  they  take  pride  in.  Take  much  r^otice  of 
them,  and  keep  continually  saying  something  to  tickle  their  vanity' 
for  this  organization  will  bear  all  the  “soft  soap”  you  can  admin- 
ister. When  you  have  gained  this  organ,  you  have  got  the  “ bell- 
sheep,”  which  all  the  other  faculties  will  blindly  follow  on  the  run. 
But  if  approbativeness  be  only  full  or  large,  with  reason  and  moral- 
ity quite  as  large  or  larger,  and  the  head  of  a good  size  and  well 
developed,  “ so/^-soap  ” will  not  take,  but  will  only  sicken  • for  rea- 
son will  soon  penetrate  your  motive,  and  morality  will  reverse  the 
other  faculties  against  you,  and  destroy  all  chance  of  gaining  the 
affections.  See  to  it  that  you  really  esteem  those  with  this  organ- 
ization— esteem  them  not  for  their  dress,  beauty,  manners,  &c.,  but 
for  their  moral  purity,  their  elevated  sentiments,  their  flne  feelings, 
and  their  intellectual  attainments.  As  they  estimate  themselves 
and  others  not  by  a standard  of  wealth,  beauty,  dress,  &c.,  but  by  a 
moral  and  intellectual  standard,  so  your  showing  them^that  you 
really  esteem  those  qualities  which  they  prize  so  highly,  will  cause 
them  to  perceive  that  your  tastes  harmonize  with  theirs,  and  thus 


130 


HINTS  ON  ETIQUETTE. 


turn  their  leading  organs  in  your  favor,  and  unite  and  endear  then* 
to  you. 

“ If  benevolence  predominate  in  the  person,  show  yourself  kind, 
not  to  the  individual  alone,  nor  in  little  matters  of  modern  polite- 
ness, but  as  an  habitual  feeling  of  your  soul,  always  gushing  forth 
spontaneously  at  the  call  of  want  or  suffering,  and  ready  to  make 
personal  sacrifices  to  do  good.  Be  philanthropic,  and  show  your- 
self deeply  interested  in  the  welfare  of  your  fellow-men.  This  will 
gratify  his  or  her  benevolence,  and  bring  it  over  in  your  behalf, 
which  will  draw  the  other  faculties  along  with  it. 

u To  one  who  has  large  intellectual  organs  do  not  talk  fashiona- 
ble nonsense,  or  words  'without  ideas — chit-chat,  or  S7?2a//-talk — I 
mean  the  polite  tete-a-tete  of  fashionable  young  people  ; but  converse 
intellectually  upon  sensible  subjects  * evince  good  sense  and  sound 
judgment  in  all  you  say  and  do;  present  ideas  and  exhibit  intellect. 
This  will  gratify  their  intellects,  and  lay  a deep  intellectual  basis 
for  mutual  love,  as  well  as  go  far  towards  exciting  it. 

u If  the  person  be  pious  and  devout,  be  religious  yourself,  and 
your  religious  feelings  will  strike  a chord  that  will  thrill  through 
her  whole  soul,  kindling  an  irresistible  flame  of  mutual  love. 

“ If  the  individual  be  a timid  damsel,  do  not  frighten  her  : for 
this  will  drive  away  every  vestige  of  lurking  affection,  and  turn 
her  faculties  against  you ; but  be  gentle  and  soothing  and  offer  her 
all  the  protection  in  your  power,  causing  her  to  feel  safe  under  your 
wing,  and  she  will  hover  under  it,  and  love  you  devoutly  for  the 
care  you  bestow  upon  her. 

“ If  ideality  be  large  show  refinement  and  good  taste,  and  avoid 
all  grossness  and  improper  allusions ; for  nothing  will  more  effect- 
ually array  her  against  you  than  either  impropriety  or  vulgarity, 
or  even  inelegance.  Descant  on  the  exquisite  and  sentimental,  on 
poetry  and  oratory,  and  expatiate  on  the  beauties  of  nature  and  art, 
and  especially  of  natural  scenery.  If  order  be  also  large,  see  to  it 
that  your  person  be  neat,  apparel  nice,  and  every  trace  of  the  slov- 
enly removed. 

“ But,  since  it  is  the  affections , mainly,  that  you  wish  to  enlist, 
show  yourself  affectionate  and  tender.  As  like  begets  like,  what- 
ever faculty  is  lively  in  you  will  be  excited  in  them ; therefore, 
your  friendship  and  love,  as  they  beam  forth  from  your  eyes,  soften 
your  countenance,  burn  on  your  lips,  escape  through  the  soft  and 
tender  tones  of  your  voice,  light  up  your  countenance  with  the 
smile  of  love,  or  impress  the  kiss  of  affection,  imbue  your  whole 
soul,  and  arc  embodied  in  every  look,  word  and  action,  will  as 
surely  find  a way  to  their  hearts  as  the  river  to  the  ocean, 
and  kindle  m them  a reciprocity  of  love.  By  these  and  other 
similar  applications  of  this  principle,  the  disengaged  affections  of 
almost  any  one  can  be  secured,  especially  if  the  organs  of  both  be 
similar ; 3for  the  command  thus  obtained  over  the  feelings,  will, 
and  even  judgment,  is  almost  unlimited.” 


HOW  TO  BE  BEAUTIFUL. 


131 


THE  ART  OF  IMPROVING  THE  PERSONAL  APPEARANCE,  OR 

HOW  TO  BE  BEAUTIFUL 

For  Removing  Tan. 

Blotches2  Freckles,  Warts,  Pimples, — and  to  change  the  sallow 
face  into  one  of  beauty,  and  to  improve  and  beautify  the  complexion, 
skin,  face,  neck,  hands,  &c.,  and  to  make  wrinkled  skin  smooth. 

Take  two  gallons  of  strong  soap-suds.  Add  to  this  one,  pint  of 
pure  alcohol,  and  a quarter  of  an  ounce  of  Rosemary.  Mix  these 
well  together,  and  they  are  fit  for  application.  It  should  be  applied 
with  a linen  rag. 

Another  article  ; applied  in  the  same  way,  and  easily  obtained, 
is  Horseradish,  grated  into  sweet  milk,  which  will  be  fit  for  use  in 
about  seven  or  eight  hours. 

Kalydor  for  the  Complexion. 

Take  blanched  bitter  almonds,  one  part*  rose-water,  16  parts. 
Mix  and  strain,  then  add  five  grains  of  bi-chloride  of  mercury  to 
every  eight-ounce  bottle  of  the  mixture,  and  scent  with  rose  or 
violet. 

To  Beautify  the  Teeth , 

And  to  make  brown,  dark,  and  bad  Teeth,  beautiful  and  white  as 
pearls,  and  so  sound  as  not  to  decay  during  life  or  while  the  article 
is  used. 

Take  one  part  of  Chloride  of  Lime,  and  fifteen  parts  of  Prepared 
Chalk,  adding  half  an  ounce  of  pulverized  Peruvian  Bark,  and  a 
little  Otto  of  Roses.  Use  it  morning  and  evening. 

For  Tooth  Powders,  use  about  half  an  ounce  of  Chalk  and  half 
an  ounce  of  pulverized  Orris  Root.  Mix,  and  flavor  to  suit,  and 
rub  the  teeth  with  it,  as  prudence  dictates,  and  the  improvement 
of  the  teeth  and  gums  will  indeed  be  wonderful. 

To  Clean  the  Teeth. 

Rub  them  with  the  ashes  of  burnt  bread. 

To  make  the  Hair  grow  rich  soft  glossy , etc. 

Take  a half  pint  of  Alcohol,  and  Castor  Oil  quarter  of  a gill, 
mix,  and  flavor  with  Burgamot,  or  whatever  else  may  be  agreeable. 
Apply  it  with  the  hand.  Rub  well  and  frequently.  This  article  is 
harmless. 

To  make  the  Hair  curl. 

When  the  hair  will  not  curl  naturally,  the  curling  irons  should 
not  be  used;  they  only  extract  the  moisture,  and  render  the  hair 
crisp  and  harsh.  An  excellent  curling  liquid  is  the  following : 
Put  two  pounds  of  common  soap,  cut  small,  into  three  pints  of 
spirits  of  wine,  with  eight  ounces  of  potash,  and  melt  the  whole, 
stirring  it  with  a clean  piece  of  wood.  Add  some  essence  of  amber, 
vanilla,  and  nevoli — about  a quarter  of  an  ounce  of  each — to  render 


132 


EMPLOYMENT  FOR  EVERYBODY, 


the  fluid  agreeable.  The  liquids  which  are  sold  for  the  professed 
purpose  of  assisting  in  curling  the  nair,  are  chiefly  composed  of 
either  oily  or  extractive  substances. 

To  promote  the  growth  of  whiskers , moustaches , etc. 

The  best  method  to  force  the  growth  of  whiskers  and  moustaches 
is  to  shave  the  parts  frequently.  Use  as  a stimulant  the  ashes  of 
burned  tobacco,  and  Baywater. 


EMPLOYMENT  POP  EVERYBODY,  OR  HOW  TO 
MAKE  MONEY. 

Embracing  valuable  Receipts  for  Manufacturers  of  useful 

ARTICLES  IN  GENERAL  DEMAND,  AND  FROM  THE  SALE  OF  WHICH 

IMMENSE  PROFITS  MAY  BE  DERIVED. 

(1.)  A New  Art , to  Draw  from  Nature. 

First.  Prepare  your  ink  by  takirfb;  Printer’s  ink  and  thining  it 
with  spirits  of  turpentine,  to  the  consistency  of  cream,  or  just 
enough  so  that  it  can  be  used  with  a pen. 

Second.  Take  a clear,  nice  pane  of  glass ; a large  size  is  prefer- 
able, as  it  will  then  do  for  large  or  small  drawings,  and  if  the  ob- 
ject to  be  drawn  is  any  thing  over  which  the  glass  can  be  laid,  so 
as  to  lie  flat  like  a sheet  of  paper,  in  writing,  such  a picture,  draw- 
ing, or  etching  of  any  kind,  or  a leaf,  flower,  or  any  thing  that  can 
be  laid  under  the  glass  in  any  way,  so  arrange  it.  Or  the  glass 
can  be  put  in  a frame,  so  as  to  raise  one  end  like  a desk  lid  • behind 
and  under  which  may  be  laid  any  small  object  to  be  drawn.  Then, 
when  the  glass  and  object  to  be  drawn  are  so  fixed  as  to  be  station- 
ary, (for  there  should  be  no  movement  of  them  after  the  drawing 
is  commenced  till  finished,)  you  may  proceed  to  draw  an  outline 
of  the  object  on  the  glass  with  a pen,  using  the  ink  prepared  as 
above,  doing  it  expeditiously,  so  it  will  not  become  too  dry ; and 
when  the  entire  outline  is  drawn,  breathe  on  the  drawing,  so  as  to 
moisten  the  ink  on  the  glass,  holding  it  so  it  cannot  slide  about  at 
all,  and  gently  rub  the  hand  over  the  paper  a few  times,  pressing 
it  on  the  glass,  and  when  it  comes  off  you  have  a perfect  etching 
of  the  object.  This  can  be  shaded  and  colored  to  suit  the  fancy, 
or  left  as  it  is,  a beautiful  etching.  With  a little  practice  and  care, 
any  one  can  thus  draw  most  perfectly.  All  you  have  to  do,  is  just 
to  follow  with  the  pen  on  the  glass  the  outlines  of  the  object  to  be 
drawn.  Commence  with  small  pictures  at  first,  till  you  get  a little 
practice. 

Third.  If  you  wish  to  draw  a landscape,  animal,  house,  or  any 
thing  in  perspeciive,  so  as  to  need  to  set  the  glass  up  perpendicu- 
larly, the  ink  of  course  will  not  flow  from  the  pen,  on  the  glass  ] 
hence,  you  have  to  proceed  as  follows,  viz : with  a thip  solution  of 
gum  arabic,  or  a little  loaf  sugar,  or  even  cigar  ashes,  rub  the  glass 


OR  HOW  TO  MAKE  MONEY. 


133 


over  and  let  it  dry  * (but  it  must  not  be  so  thick  as  to  prevent  see- 
ing the  object  through  the  glass,)  then,  with  a crayon,  or  some 
sharp-pointed  instrument,  draw  the  object  on  the  glass,  by  marking 
or  scratching  it  on  the  gummed  side,  and  when  completed,  turn  the 
glass  over,  laying  it  down  hat,  and  draw  the  same  with  ink  on  the 
opposite  side,  and  proceed  to  transfer  it  to  paper  as  before. 

Almost  anything  can  be  drawn  with  great  accuracy  and  facility 
in  this  way,  even  portraits.  $25  a lesson  is  charged  in  the  old 
country  for  instruction  in  this  art,  and  $5  and  $10  in  the  United 
States  and  Canada. 

(2.)  The  Art  of  Painting  on  Glass. 

The  only  difference  between  ordinary  painting  and  painting  on 
glass  is,  that  in  the  latter  all  transparent  colors  are  used  instead  of 
opaque  ones,  and  the  colors  being  ground  up  with  Turpentine  and 
Varnish  instead  of  Oil.  In  painting  upon  glass,  it  is  necessary 
occasionally  to  place  the  picture  between  the  artist  and  the  light, 
to  enable  him  j^o  see  the  effect,  the  light  having  the  property  of 
casting  a yellowish  tinge  upon  all  colors  so  exposed. 

To  persons  having  a knowledge  of  coloring,  this  art  is  easily 
learned,  and  affords  a handsome  remuneration. 

(3.)  The  Art  of  Etching  upon  Copper. 

Having  obtained  a fine  piece  of  Copper,  which  must  be  well  pol- 
ished, you  will  make  a mixture  of  Bees’  Wax,  to  which  a small 
quantity  of  Rosin  must  be  added  to  render  the  substance  harder; 
melt  these  together  by  heat,  and  when  thoroughly  incorporated  by 
stirring,  you  must  take  a camel’s  hair  brush  and  cover*  the  plate 
with  a nice,  even  coating  of  the  mixture,  after  having  warmed  the 
plate  by  the  fire. 

When  the  mixture  becomes  hardened  upon  the  plate,  you  must 
sketch  your  subject  upon  the  surface,  then  take  an  etching  point, 
or  a large  needle  fixed  in  a handle  will  do,  cut  through  the  wax  to 
the  surface  of  the  copper,  taking  care  to  make  your  lines  as  dis- 
tinct as  possible. 

This  being  done,  you  must  raise  a border  of  wax  all  round  the 
plate,  and  taking  some  strong  Nitric  Acid,  pour  it  on  the  plate  to 
the  depth  of  an  inch.  The  acid  will  eat  away  the  copper  in  those 
places  which  have  been  bared  bj  the  etching  point,  and  you  must 
trom  time  to  time  pour  off  the  acid,  and  wash  the  plate  to  see  how 
the  work  is  going  on.  Those  places  which  appear  to  be  etched 
deep  enough,  are  to  be  stopped  up  with  wax,  the  Acid  again  poured 
on,  and  allowed  to  remain  until  the  process  is  completed.  This 
done,  the  wax  is  to  be  melted  off,  the  plate  cleaned,  and  the  etching  - 
is  then  ready  for  the  press. 

This  is  an  employment  from  which  a good  emolument  may  be 
derived.  J 

(4.)  To  make  the  best  Red  Sealing  Wax. 

Purchase  4 pounds  of  Shellac,  one  pound  and  a half  of  Venice 


134 


EMPLOYMENT  FOR  EVERYBODY, 


Turpentine,  3 pounds  of  finest  Cinnabar,  and  add  four  ounces  of 
Vermillion.  Mix  the  whole  well  together  and  melt  over  a very 
slow  fire.  Pour  it  on  a thick  smooth  glass,  or  any  other  flat  smooth 
surface,  and  make  it  into  3,  6 or  10  cent  sticks. 

If  stamped  “ Vermillion,”  or  “Finest  Vermillion  Wax/’  it  will 
promote  the  sale.  The  consumption  is  immense,  and  profit  great. 

This  is  a trade  or  occupation  which  is  well  worth  the  attention 
of  females.  It  is  in  the  hands  of  a few  who,  to  my  knowledge,  are 
making  an  excellent  income. 

N.  B.  To  stamp  it,  it  should  he  re-warmed , which  will  give  it 
the  gloss . 

(5.)  Black  Sealing  Wax. 

Purchase  best  black  Rosin  3 pounds,  Bees1  Wax  half  a pound,  and 
finely  powdered  Ivory  Black  1 pdund.  Melt  the  whole  together 
over  a slow  fire,  and  pour  into  sticks  as  above. 

If  a quarter  of  a pound  of  Venice  Turpentine  is  added , it  will  he 
fit  for  letter  use.  # 

(6.)  Indelible  Ink. 

For  marking  linen,  without  preparation,  equal  to  any  extant. 
The  price  of  which,  in  trade,  is  twenty  dollars  per  gross.  Nitrate 
of  Silver,  1^  ounce,  dissolved  in  Liquor  Ammonise  Fortisine,  5§ 
ounce,  Orchil,  for  coloring,  § ounee ; Gum  Mucilage,  12  ounces. 
Put  it  up  in  drachm  bottles,  and  then  in  boxes  of  one  dozen  each. 
This  will  cost  in  the  aggregate  about  $3. 

The  consumption  of  this  article  is  immense,  and  in  universal 
demand.  Usually  sold  at  25  cents  the  bottle  ; if  sold  wholesale  at 
a reduction,  the  profit  is  great.  The  Drachm  Bottles  are  to  be  had 
the  best  and  cheapest  in  the  potteries. 

(7.)  Superior  Liquid  Blacking. 

Equal  to  any  made.  Use  Ivory  black  in  fine  powder,  28  pounds ; 
Treacle,  8 pounds  ; Refined  or  droppings  Sweet  Oil,  1 pint ; Good 
Malt  Vinegar  one  gallon  * stale  but  good  Beer,  two  gallons;  Oil  of 
Vitriol,  two  ounces;  soft  water  distilled,  six  gallons.  Mix  Treacle 
and  water  well  together ; and  to  powder  add  oil  till  well  mixed  ; 
then  add  porter  and  vinegar  in  pan ; stir  well  together  one  hour 
with  stick,  then  fill  for  use. 

A ready  sale  of  this  excellent  Prize  Blacking,  with  Oilmen  and 
Grocers,  at  $12.50  per  gross.  Profit  $8.  Consumption  needs  no 
comment. 

Note. — Put  the  oil  of  Vitriol  in  the  water  and  mix,  and  then 
add  the  whole  together. 

(8.)  To  make  .Wafers. 

•Take  2 lbs.  best  fine  flour,  two  ounces  of  isinglass,  and  half  a 
gill  of  good  yeast.  Mix  to  a proper  consistency  with  gum  water, 
spread  the  batter  on  even  tin  or  earthen  plates,  and  dry  them  in 
an  oven,  and  cut  to  different  sizes.  Use  a small  quantity  of  Ver- 
million in  mixing  for  red,  Indigo  for  blue,  and  Turmeric  for  yellow. 


OR  HOW  TO  MAKE  MONEY. 


135 


(9.)  Fire-Proof  and  Water-Proof  Paint 

Take  a sufficient  quantity  of  water  for  use ; add  as  much  potash 
as  can  be  dissolved  therein.  When  the  water  will  dissolve  no  more 
potash,  stir  into  the  solution  first,  a quantity  of  Hour  paste  of  the 
consistency  of  painter’s  size ; second,  a sufficiency  of  pure  clay  to 
render  it  of  the  consistency  of  cream.  Apply  with  a painter’s 
brush. ! 

(10.)  Water-Proof  and  Fire-Proof  Cement , for  roofs  of  Houses. 

Slack  stone  lime  in  a large  tub  or  barrel  with  boiling  water, 
covering  the  tub  or  barrel  to  keep  in  the  steam.  When  thus  slacked, 
pass  6 quarts  through  a fine  sieve,  it  will  then  be  in  a state  of  fine 
flour.  To  this  add  1 quart  rock  salt  and  1 gallon  of  water Boil 
the  mixture  and  skim  it  clean.  To  every  5 gallons  of  this  skimmed 
mixture  add  1 lb.  of  alum  and  \ lb.  of  copperas  ; by  slow  degrees 
add  § lb.  potash  and  4 quarts  fine  sand  or  wood  aslms  sifted.  Both 
of  the  above  will  admit  of  any  coloring  you  please. 

It  looks  better  than  paint,  and  is  as  durable  as  slate. 

(11.)  Sure  Cure  for  Dysentery . 

Take  new  churned  butter,  before  it  is  washed  or  salted  ; clarify 
over  the  fire  and  skim  off  all  the  milky  particles ; add  | brandy  to 
preserve  it,  and  loaf  sugar  to  sweeten ; let  the  patient  (if  an  adult,) 
take  two  table-spoonfuls  twice  a day.  The  above  is  a sure  cure, 
and  it  is  sold  at  a great  profit. 

(12.)  To  Soften  Hard  Water. 

A half  oz.  quick  lime  dipped  in  9 quarts  of  water,  and  the  clear 
solution  put  into  a barrel  of  hard  water  ; the  whole  will  be  soft 
water  as  it  settles. 

(13.)  Hard  Cement  for  Seams. 

Take  equal  quantities  of  white  lead  and  white  sand,  and  as  much 
oil  as  will  make  it  into  the  consistency  of  putty.  Apply  this  to 
the  seams  in  the  roofs  of  houses,  etc.  It  will,  in  a few  weeks,  be- 
come as  hard  as  stone. 

(14.)  Fire  Kindlings. 

Take  1 qt.  tar,  3 lbs.  rosin;  melt  them;  when  somewhat  cool 
add  one  gill  spirits  turpentine,  and  mix  as  much  saw-dust,  with  a 
little  charcoal  as  can  be  worked  in ; spread  out  while  hot  on  a 
board ; when  cold  break  up  in  small  lumps,  about  the  size  of  hickory 
nuts.  They  will  easily  ignite  with  a match  and  bum  with  a strong 
blaze  long  enough  to  burn  any  wood  fit  to  burn.  The  above  sells 
readily  in  all  our  large  towns  and  cities  at  a great  profit. 

(15.)  Cure  for  Erysipelas , and  all  high  inflammation  of  the  skin. 

A simple  poultice  of  cranberries  pounded  fine  and  applid  in  a 
raw  state. 


136 


EMPLOYMENT  FOR  EVERYBODY, 


(16.)  Cure  for  a Cough, 

before  eating,  three  times  a dnv  n»°  i ’ n"  an  hour 

SB  s£££ZT*** "d 

(17.)  Rowland’s  Maccassar  Oil. 

ofr*'  10dr“p*-  «> 

(18.)  Cure  for  Rattlesnake  Bites,  and  other  Poisonous  creatures 

kejt  inS°ciote  boUlfsUm  ^ a^eohoi’  8 ozs-  mixed  and 

completed  Pplj  t0  the  wound  and  th®  cure  is  soon 

(19.)  Cough  Syrup. 

Put  1 qt.  hoarhound  to  1 qt.  water  and  hnil  if  . 

“>:»  ««gh  ,L  be  t,0„We,„T,“P  ““■*  * d**  » “ •"» 

above  receipt  has  been  sold  for  $100  Spvavq]  a 
making  much  money  by  its  manufacture.  * ™l  &T™  are 

(20.)  Cure  for  the  Bite  of  a Mad  bog. 

in  apt  nUhLi^  down^o0*  nt^T1?  T’  CUt  U fine’  and  boil  * 
fasting,  (eat  no  food  untill  4 o’clock  P M ) fyom  l®£”  ™IQ?8 
time  tor  two  weeks.  The  above  has  cured  “ * 

(21.)  Cure  for  Chapped  Hands , Lips,  etc 

*nd  1 lb-  ““*•  “d  2 Apply 

(22.)  Dysentery  and  Bloody  Flux. 

S3^*wS£s3-i£ 

(23.)  Water-Proof  for  Leather. 

ozsTaBuriundy  nlLl  ft  ^7  Wax  and  white  turPenti“e  each  2 
, rgunay  pitch  1 oz.,  melt  and  color  with  lampblack. 

(24.)  Best  Shaving  Soap  ever  Invented. 

Take  4i  lbs.  white  bar  soap,  1 qt.  rain  water,  1 gill  beef’s  gall, 


OR.  KOW  TO  MAKE  MONEY, 


137 


and  1 gill  spirits  turpentine  : cut  the  soap  thin  and  boil  five  min- 
utes;  stir  while  boiling,  and  color  with  \ oz.  vermillion ; scent 
with  oil  of  rose  or  almonds.  Fifty  cents’  worth  of  materials  will 
make  six  dollars’  worth  of  soap. 

(25.)  Wart  and  Corn  Salve. 

Take  the  extract  of  Belladonna  4 drachms,  per  oxide  of  manga- 
nese, 3 ozs.,  potash  5 lbs.;  pulverize  the  potash  in  an  iron  kettle, 
and  let  it  stand  in  the  open  air  24  hours,  then  mix  the  whole 
together. 

Shave  the  corn  with  a sharp  knife,  and  then  apply  for  ten  min- 
utes the  salve ; wash  it  off  and  soak  it  in  sweet  oil.  This  is  the 
article  sold  about  the  country,  and  on  the  corners  of  the  streets  in 
our  cities  for  25  and  50  cents  a drachm  bottle. 

(26.)  Writing  Ink — Black. 

Take  1 lb.  logwood,  1 gallon  soft  water;  boil  slightly  or  simmer 
in  an  iron  vessel  one  hour ; dissolve  in  a little  hot  water  24  grains 
bychromate  of  potash,  12  do.  prussiate  of  potash  and'stir  into  the 
liquid  while  over  the  fire;  take  it  off  and  strain  it  through  a fine 
cloth.  This  ink  can  be  made  for  5 cents  per  gallon,  and  it  sells 
from  $1  to  $3.  It  is  of  a bright  jet  black,  flows  beautifully  from 
the  pen,  and  it  is  so  indelible  that  oxalic  acid  will  not  remove  it  from 
paper.  No  other  ink  will  stand  the  test  of  oxalic  acid;  hence  its 
value  for  merchants,  banks,  etc. 

(27.)  Indellible  Ink. 

One  inch  of  the  stick  of  the  nitrate  of  silver  dissolved  in  a little 
water,  and  stirred  into  each  gallon  of  the  above,  makes  a first-rate 
mdellible  ink  for  cloth. 

(28.)  Blue  Ink. 

Take  soft  Prussian  blue  and  oxalic  acid  in  equal  parts,  powder 
them  finely,  and  then  add  soft  water  to  bring  it  to  a thin  paste. 
Let  it  stand  for  a few  days,  then  add  soft  water  to  make  the  desired 
shade  of  color,  adding  a little  gum  arabic  to  prevent  its  spreading. 

(29.)  Best  Red  Ink. 

Take  best  carmine  (nakarot)  2 grains,  rain  water  ^ oz.,  water  of 
ammonia  20  drops.  This  is  a beautiful  ruling  ink  for  ledgers  and 
bank  purposes.  Add  a little  gum  arabic. 

(30.)  Yellow  Ink. 

A little  alum  added  to  saffron  makes  a beautiful  yellow  ink. 

(31.)  Oil  Paste  Blacking. 

Take  oil  of  vitriol  2 ozs.,  tanner’s  oil  5 ozs.,  ivory  black  1 lb., 
molasses  5 ozs.;  mix  the  oil  and  vitriol  together,  and  let  it  stand  a 
day,  and  then  add  the  ivory  black  and  molasses^  and  the  white  of 


EMPLOYMENT  FOR  EVERYBODY, 


!$8 

one  egg,  and  stir  it  well  together  to  a thick  paste.  This  is  a supe- 
rior blacking,  will  not  injure  the  leather,  and  gives  universal  satis- 
faction. 

(32.)  Cologne. 

Take  1 gall,  cologne  spirits,  90  per  cent,  proof,  add  of  the  oil  of 
lemon,  orange  and  burgamot  each  a spoonful;  add  also  extract  of 
vanilla  40  drops,  shake  until  the  oils  are  cut  then,  add  a pint  and  a 
half  of  soft  water. 

(33.)  Hair  Oil . 

Take  1 gall,  cologne  spirits  90  per  cent.,  1 pt.  best  castor  oil,  or 
as  much  as  the  spirits  will  cut,  add  1 oz.  oil  cinnamon,  or  as  much 
as  will  bring  it  to  the  desired  flavor 

(34.)  French  Chemical  Soap. 

Take  5 lbs.  castile  soap,  cut  fine,  1 pt.  alcohol,  1 do.  soft  water, 
2 ozs.  aquafortis,  oz.  lampblack,  2 ozs.  saltpetre,  3 ozs.  potash  1 
oz.  camphor,  and  4 ozs.  cinnamon  in  powder.  First  dissolve  the 
soap,  potash,  and  saltpetre  by  boiling ; then  add  all  the  other  arti- 
cles and  continue  to  stir  until  it  cools ; then  pour  it  into  a box  and 
let  it  stand  24  hours,  then  cut  into  cakes.  For  taking  out  oil, 
grease,  etc.  from  cloths. 

(35.)  Ox  Marrow  Pomatum. 

'Take  2 ozs.  of  yellow  wax,  12  ozs.  lard,  and  8 ozs.  beef  marrow 
melt  all  together,  and  when  sufficiently  cool,  perfume  it  with  the 
essential  oil  of  almonds.  This  is  an  excellent  article  and  sells  well. 

(36.)  An  Excellent  Article  to  prevent  the  Hair  from  falling  off. 

Take  | pt.  French  brandy,  a table  spoonful  fine  salt,  tea  spoon- 
ful powdered  alum.  Let  these  be  mixed  and  well  shaken  until 
they  are  dissolved ; then  filter,  and  it  is  ready  for  use.  If  used 
every  day,  it  may  be  diluted  with  soft  water. 

(37.)  Tooth  Powder. 

Take  prepared  chalk  2 ozs.,  gum  myrrh  in  fine  powder  1 drachm, 
Peruvian  bark  { oz.,  white  sugar  1 oz.,  rose  pink  1 oz.;  mix  well. 
This  is  one  of  the  best  tooth  powders  in  use  ; it  cleams  the  teeth, 
hardens  the  gums  and  sweetens  the  breath,  and  can  be  made  and 
sold  at  a moderate  price. 

(38.)  Extract  of  Vanilla. 

This  beautiful  flavor  is  made  by  taking  1 quart  pure  French 
brandy,  cutting  up  fine  1 oz.  Yanilla  beans,  and  2 ozs.  Tonqua, 
bruised.  Add  these  tc  the  brandy  and  let  it  digest  for  two  weeks, 
frequently  shaking.  Then  filter  carefully,  and  it  is  ready  for  use. 


OR  HOW  TO  MAKE  MONEY. 


139 


This  article  is  in  great  demand  for  flavoring  pies,  cakes,  puddings, 
etc.,  and  sells  readily  at  a good  price  both  to  families  and  at  the 
grocers. 

(39.)  Shaving  Soap . 

Take  2 lbs.  of  best  white  bar  soap  and  lb.  good  common  bar 
soap  cut  them  up  fine,  so  that  they  will  dissolve  readily.  Put  the 
soap  into  a copper  kettle,  with  1 quart  of  soft  water — let  it  stand 
over  th,e  fire,  and  when  it  is  dissolved  by  boiling,  add  1 pint  alcohol, 

1 gill  beef’s  gall,  4 gill  spirits  turpentine ; boil  all  these  together 
for  five  minutes;  stir  while  boiling;  while  it  is  cooling  flavor  it 
with  oil  of  sassafras  to  suit,  and  color  it  with  fine  vermillion.  This 
soap  makes  a rich  lather,  softens  the  face,  and  can  be  made  cheap. 

(40.)  Shaving  Cream . 

Take  1 lb.  soft  soap  in  ajar  and  add  to  it  one  quart  high  proof 
cologne  spirits;  set  the  jar  in  a vessel  of  boiling  water,  or  water 
bath  until  the  soap  is  dissolved ; perfume  with  essential  oil  to  suit. 

This  is  a good  article  for  shaving,  especially  for  those  troubled 
with  pimples  on  the  face  ; it  softens  the  skin  and  cures  the  humors. 

2 or  three  drops  rubbed  upon  the  face  with  the  end  of  the  finger 
is  enough  for  shaving.  Dip  the  end  of  the  brush  in  hot  water  and 
brush  the  face  briskly  and  it  will  raise  a rich  lather. 

(41.)  Crockery  Cement , which  is  Transparent . 

Take  1 lb.  white  shellac,  pulverized ; 2 ozs.  clean  gum  mastic ; 
put  these  into  a bottle,  and  then  add  \ lb.  pure  sulphuric  ether. 
Let  it  stand  half  an  hour,  and  then  add  half  a gallon  90  per  cent, 
alcohol — shake  occasionally  till  it  is  dissolved.  Heat  the  edges  of 
the  article  to  be  mended  and  apply  the  cement  with  a pencil  brush  ; 
hold  the  article  firmly  together  till  the  cement  cools. 

(42.)  Freckle  Lotion— for  the  cure  of  Freckles , Tan,  or  Sun-burnt  face 
and  hands. 

Take  \ lb.  clear  ox  gall,  drm.  each  of  camphor  and  burnt 
alum,  1 drm.  borax,  \ oz.  rock  salt  and  rock  candy.  This  should 
be  mixed  and  shaken  well  several  times  a day  for  three  weeks,  until 
the  gall  becomes  transparent ; then  strain  it  very  carefully  through 
filtering  paper,  and  apply  it  to  the  face  during  the  day,  wash  it  off 
at  night. 

The  article,  if  properly  made,  will  not  fail  of  its  purpose.  It 
sells  very  readily  and  commands  a good  price. 

(43.)  Washing  and  Bleaching  Liquid. 

Take  4 lb.  unslacked  lime,  and  pour  upon  it  6 qts.  boiling  water , 
stir  it  all  up,  and  when  it  has  stood  long  enough  to  entirely  settle, 
strain  off  the  clean  water  and  dissolve  in  this  water,  by  t oiling,  2 
lbs.  sal  soda. 


140 


EMPLOYMENT  TOR  EVERYBODY, 


Fop  washing— -to  every  pail  full  of  water  add  for  boiling,  1 pint 
of  the  liquid.  The  clothes  must  be  put  in  soak  the  night  before 
washing,  taking  care  to  rub  all  the  dirt  spots  with  soap ; then  boil 
hem  with  the  liquid  3o  minutes.  They  are  then  to  be  drawn  and 
put  into  a tub,  and  clear  boiling  water  poured  over  them  ; then  rub 
them  out  rinse  them  well  and  they  are  fit  for  drying. 

(44.)  Beautiful  and  cheap)  Soap. 

Take  i p.  eommon  bar  Wp,  out  fine,  and  1 lb.  sal  soda,  to  a 
pail  full  of  water,  boil  a little,  and  you  have  good  soap ; with  it 
you  can  wash  with  half  the  labor.  If  you  wish  thicker  soap,  take 
Z lbs.  soap  and  2 lbs.  sal  soda  to  a pail  full  of  water. 

(45.)  Burning  Fluid . 

Take  4 qts  alcohol,  and  1 qt.  spirits  turpentine,  mix  well  to- 
gether, and  it  is  ready  for  use. 

(46.)  Liquid  Cement. 

. Cut  Sum  Shellac  in  70  per  cent,  alcohol,  put  it  in  phials  and  it 
is  ready  for  use  Apply  it  to  the  edge  of  the  broken  dish  with  a 
leather,  and  hold  it  m a spirit  lamp  as  long  as  the  cement  will  sim- 
mer, then  join  together  evenly,  and  when  cold  the  dish  will  break 
m another  place  first,  and  is  as  strong  as  new. 

(47.)  Bed  Bug  Poison. 

Take  1 pint  alcohol,  2 ozs.  sal  ammonias,  1 pint  spirits  turpen- 
tine, 2 ozs.  corrosive,  sublimate  and  2 ozs(.  gum  camphor:  dissolve 
the  camphor  m the  alcohol,  then  pulverize  the  corrosive  sublimate 
and  sal  ammonias,  and  add  to  it,  after  which  put  in  the  spirits  of 
turpentine  and  shake  well  together.  This  sells  readily  at  20  cents 
per  oz.  phial.  J .... 

(48.)  Cheap  Outside  Paint . 

(.  two  parts  (in  bulk)  of  water  lime  ground  fine,  one  part 
(m  bulk)' of  white  lead  ground  in  oil.  Mix  them  thoroughly,  by 
adding  best  boiled  linseed  oil,  enough  to  prepare  it  to  pass  through  * 
a pamt  mill,  after  which  temper  with  oil  till  it  can  be  applied  with 
a common  paint  brush.  . Make  any  color  to  suit.  It  will  last  three 
times  as  long  as  lead  paint,  and  cost  not  one-fourth  as  much.  It 
is  Superior. 

(49.)  Ice  Cream. 

Take  of  new  milk  and  cream,  each  2 quarts,  2 lbs.  sugar  and  12 
eggs ; dissolve  the  sugar  in  the  milk,  beat  the  eggs  to  a froth,  and 
add  to  the  whole ; strain,  and  bring  to  a scald,  but  be  careful  not 
to  burn  it;,  when  cool  flavor  with  extract  of  vanilla  or  oil  of  lemon, 
racx  the  tin  freezer  in  a deep  tub,  with  broken  ice  and  salt,  whirl 
the  freezer,  and  occasionally  scrape  down  from  the  side  what  gathers 
on.  The  proportions  are  one  quart  of  salt  to  every  pail  of  ice. 


OR  HOW  TO  MAKE  MONEY. 


141 


(50.)  Original  and  only  Genuine  Silver  Plating  Fluid.- — Galvanism 
Simplified. 

Dissolve  1 oz.  of  nitrate  of  silver  in  crystal,  in  12  ozs.  of  soft 
i water.  Then  dissolve  in  the  water  2 ozs.  of  cyanuret  of  potash. 
Shake  the  whole  together  and  let  it  stand  till  it  becomes  clear. 

| Have  ready  some  half  ounce  vials,  and  fill  them  half  full  of  Paris 
| white,  or  fine  whiting,  and  then  fill  up  the  bottles  with  the  liquid, 
and  it  is  ready  for  use.  The  whiting  does  not  increase  the  coating 
power  ; it  only  helps  to  clean  the  articles,  and  to  save  the  silver 
nuid  by  half  filling  the  bottles.  The  above  quantity  of  materials 
will  cost  about  §1  61,  so  that  the  fluid  will  only  cost  about  3 cents 
I a bottle. 

(51.)  Matches. 

The  ends  of  the  tapers,  or  wood,  should  be  very  dry  and  then 
j dipped  in  hot  melted  sulphur,  and  laid  aside  to  dry.  Then  take  4 
I parts  of  glue,  dissolve  it,  and  when  hot,  add  1 part  of  phosphorus, 
and  stir  in  a few  spoonfuls  of  fine  whiting  to  bring  it  to  the  proper 
thickness. 

This  preparation  should  be  kept  hot  by  being  suspended  over  a 
lamp  while  dipping  the  wood  or  tapers/  Color  the  ends  of  the 
matches  by  adding  a little  Vermillion,  lamp  black  or  Prussian  blue 
to  the  mass.  Be  careful  not  to  ignite  the  compound  while  dipping. 

(52.)  Barrett's  Certain  Preventive  of  the  Potato  Rot. 

Sow  unleached  ashes  over  the  field  once  a week  for  six  weexs, 
commencing  soon  after  the  second  hoeing.  Apply  two  or  three 
bushels  to  the  acre,  using  care  to  dust  the  tops  well.  It  has  never 
been  known  to  fail,  where  faithfully  tested. 

(53.)  Cologne — A Superior  Article. 

Take  of  90  per  cent,  best  alcohol  1 gall.,  add  to  it  one  ounce  oil 
burgamot,  one  ounce  oil  of  orange,  two  drachms  oil  of  Cedrat,  one 
drachm  of  oil  of  Nevoli,  and  one  drachm  oil  Rosemary.  Mix  well 
gnd  it  is  fit  for  use. 

(54.)  Silver  Solution,  for  Plating  Copper , Brass , and  German  Silver. 

1.  Cut  into  small  pieces  a twenty- five  cent  piece,  and  put  it  into 
an  earthern  vessel  with  half  an  ounce  of  nitric  acid.  2.  Put  the 
vessel  into  warm  water,  uncovered,  until  it  dissolves.  3.  Add  half 
a gill  of  water  and  1 teaspoonful  of  fine  salt,  let  settle.  4.  Drain 
off  and  repeat  adding  water  to  the  sediment  until  the  acid  taste  is 
all  out  of  the  water.  5.  Add  finally  about  a pint  of  water  to  the 
sediment,  and  4 scruples  cyanide  of  potassa,  and  all  is  ready.  6. 
Put  in  bottom  of  solution  a piece  of  zinc,  about  2 inches  long,  1 
wide  and  one-eighth  in  thickness.  7.  After  cleaning,  immerse  the 
article  to  be  plated  in  the  solution  about  half  a minute,  letting  it 
rest  on  the  zinc.  8.  Wipe  off  with  a dry  cloth  and  rej'eat  once. 


142 


EMPLOYMENT  FOR  EVERYBODY, 


Polish  with  buckskin.  Thickness  of  plate  can  be  increased  by 
repeating, 

(55.)  Superior  Washing  Soap. 

Take  5 pounds  bar  soap,  or  7 pounds  good  soft  soap,  4 pounds, 
sal  soda,  2 ozs.  borax,  1 oz.  hartshorn ; to  be  dissolved  in  22  quarts 
of  water  and  boiled  about  fifteen  minutes.  For  hard  soap  add  to 
the  above  half  a pound  of  rosin. 

(56.)  Superior  Boot  Blacking . 

To  4 ounces  gum  asphaltum  add  half  a pint  of  turpentine,  put 
over  fire  for  fifteen  minutes. 

* (57.)  Patent  Burning  Fluid — For  Lamps. 

A superior  article.  To  one  gallon  of  95  per  cent,  alcohol  add 
one  quart  of  camphene  oil.  Mix  well,  and  if  transparent  it  is  fit 
for  use.  If  not,  add  sufficient  alcohol  to  bring  it  to  the  natural 
color  of  the  alcohol.  It  may  b^  colored  to  suit  the  fancy  by  add- 
ing a little  tincture  of  golden  seal,  or  any  other  coloring  drug. 
Receipt  cost  $10. 

(58.)  Superior  Paint— For  Brick  Houses. 

To  lime  whitewash,  add  for  a fastener,  sulphate  of  zinc,  and 
shade  with  any  color  you  choose,  as  yellow  ochre,  Venetian  red,  etc. 
It  outlasts  oil  paint. 

(59.)  Piles — Perfectly  Cured. 

Take  flour  of  sulphur  1 oz.,  rosin  3 ozs.,  pulverize  and  mix  well 
together.  (Color  with  carmine  or  cochineal,  if  you  like.)  Bose — 
What  will  he  on  a five  cent  piece,  night  and  morning,  washing 
the  parts  freely  in  cold  water  once  or  twice  a day.  This  is  a rem- 
edy of  great  value. 

(60.)  Inflammatory  Rheumatism — A sure  Remedy. 

Take  an  ounce  of  pulverized  saltpetre  and  put  it  into  a pint  of 
sweet  oil.  Bathe  the  parts  affected,  and  a sound  cure  will  speedily  * 
be  made.  Tested . 

(61.)  Certain  Cure  for  Corns. 

One  teaspoonful  of  tar,  one  of  coarse  brown  sugar,  and  one  of 
saltpetre.  The  whole  to  be  warmed  together.  Spread  it  on  kid 
leather  the  size  of  the  corns,  and  in  two  days  they  will  be  drawn  out. 

(62.)  Small  Pox — Certain  Cure. 

Take  one  grain  each  of  powdered  Fox-glove,  ( Digitalis ,)  and 
sulphate  of  zinc.  Rub  together  thoroughly  in  a mortar  with  5 or 
6 drops  of  water ; this  done,  add  4 or  5 ounces  of  water,  and 
sweeten  with  loaf  sugar.  Dose— -A  table  spoonful  for  an  adult. 


OR  HOW  TO  MAKE  MONEY. 


143 


and  one  or  two  teaspoonfuls  for  a child  every  two  or  three  hours 
until  symptoms  of  disease  vanish. 

(63.)  Pulmonic  Wafers — For  Coughs , Colds , etc. 

Take  white  sugar  7 lbs.,  tincture  or  syrup  of  Ipecac.  4 ozs.;  an- 
timonial  wine  2 ozs.;  morphine  10  grains,  dissolved  in  a table 
spoonful  of  water,  with  10  or  15  drops  of  sulphuric  acid;  tincture 
of  blood  root  1 oz.;  syrup  of  Tolu  2 ozs.  Add  these  to  the  sugar 
and  mix  the  whole  mass  as  confectioners  do  for  lozenges,  and  cut 
into  lozenges  of  the  ordinary  size.  Use  from  6 to  12  of  these  in 
24  hours.  Equal  to  any  in  use.  They  sell  at  a great  profit. 

(64.)  To  mend  Iron  Pots. 

m Mix  finely  sifted  lime  with  some  white  of  an  egg,  till  a thin 
Kind  of  paste  is  formed,  then  add  some  iron  filings.  Apply  this  to 
the  fracture,  and  the  vessel  will  be  found  nearly  as  sound  as  ever 

(65.)  Glue  for  Cementing  Paper,  Silk  and  Leather. 

Take  of  isinglass  and  parchment  size,  each  1 oz.,  sugar  candy 
and  gum  tragacanth,  each  2 drms.;  add  to  them  1 oz.  water,  and 
boil  the  whole  together  till  the  mixture  appears  (when  cold)  of 
the  consistency  of  glue ; then  pour  it  into  any  form  you  please. 
If  this  glue  be  wet  with  the  tongue  and  rubbed  on  the  edges  of 
paper,  silk  or  leather  that  are  to  be  cemented,  and  they  will,  on 
being  laid  together,  pressed  lightly  and  suffered  to  dry,  be  as  firmly 
united  as  other  parts  of  the  substance.  It  is  fine  to  seal  letters. 

(66.)  To  Destroy  Cockroaches,  Rats  and  Mice. 

Take  a sixpenny  loaf  of  bread,  the  staler  the  better,  reduce  it  to 
a crumb,  then  in  a pot  of  water  put  two  spoonfuls  cayenne  pepper, 
one  do.  pulveriszed  annis  seed,  half  a drachm  of  saltpetre,  the 
same  of  white  lead,  and  a wine  glass  of  extract  of  hops.  Now 
throw  in  your  crumbs  of  bread ; digest  for  six  hours  in  a moderate 
heat ; strain  through  a cloth ; add  to  the  liquor  thirty  drops  of  the 
tincture  of  quassia,  and  let  it  stausd  until  next  day,  and  then  bottle 
it.  Some  lumps  of  sugar  saturated  with  this  liquor  will  be  a 
speedy  cure  for  cockroaches.  Some  pieces  of  bread  saturated  with 
it,  will  destroy  all  the  rats  and  mice.  The  above  is  extensively 
manufactured  and  sold  at  a great  profit. 

(67.)  Powder  for  Cleaning  and  Polishing  Tin , Britannia  and 
Brass  Ware. 

Take  lb.  ground  pumice  stone  and  J lb.  red  chalk,  mix  them 
evenly  together.  This  is  for  tin,  brass,  etc.  For  silver  and  fine 
ware,  take  | lb.  red  chalk  and  £ lb.  pumice  stone— mix  very  evenly ; 
use  these  articles  dry  with  a piece  of  wash  leather.  It  is  one  of 
• the  best  cleaning  powders  ever  invented,  and  very  valuable. 


(68.)  Cure  for  Salt  Rheum  or  Scurvy. 


Take  of  the  pokeweed,  any  time  in  summer,  pound  it,  press  ' 
out  the  juice  ; strain  it  into  a pewter  dish,  set  it  in  the  sun  till  i 
it  becomes  a salve — then  put  it  into  an  earthern  mug ; add  to  it  * 
fresh  water  and  bees’  wax  sufficient  to  make  an  ointment  of  com- 
mon consistency;  simmer  the  whole  over  a fire  till  thoroughly 
mixed.  When  cold,  rub  the  part  effected.  The  patient  will  j 
immediately  experience  its  good-  effects,  and  the  most  obstinate  1 
cases  will  be  cured  in  three  or  four  months.  Tested. — The  juice  2 
of  the  ripe  berries  may  be  prepared  in  the  same  way. 

(69.)  Hair  Restorative . 

Take  1 drachm  lac  sulphur,  1 drachm  of  sugar  lead,  4 ozs.,  rose 
water  ; mix  and  shake  the  vial  on  using  the  mixture.  Bathe  the 
hair  twice  a day  for  a week.  This  preparation  does  not  dye  the 
hair  but  restores  its  original  color 

(70.)  Cheap  Hair  Oil. 

Take  1 gallon  lard  oil  in  a vessel ; tie  up  1 oz.  alkanet  in  a 
straining  cloth  and  suspend  it  in  the  oil  a few  days  until  it  comes 
to  the  right  shade  of  color  then  flavor  it  with  1 oz.  essential  oil 
to  suit. 

(71.)  Bengal  Lights. 

Take  of  nitrate  of  potassa,  (saltpetre,)  8 parts,  sublimed  sul-  :• 
phur  4 parts,  and  antimony  1 part,  and  let  them  be  well  mixed  in 
powTder  and  beat  firmly  into  a stout  iron  cup,  and  set  on  fire,  and 
if  a little  camphor  be  added  it  is  still  more  brilliant.  Such  lights  I 
are  made  use  of  for  communicating  at  a great  distance  by  sea  1 
at  night. 

(72.)  Turkish  Rouge*  - 

Take  ^ lb.  best  Brazil  wood,  fine,  and  of  golden  red  color,  infuse  I 
4 days  in  4 qt.  best  white  wine  vinegar ; then  boil  them  together 
for  half  an  hour ; strain  through  a linen  cloth,  and  place  the  liquid 
again  over  the  fire ; having  in  th¥  meantime  dissolved  £ lb.  alum 
in  1 pt.  white  wine  vinegar,  mix  the  two  liquids  and  stir  them 
well  together.  The  scum  which  now  arises  should  be  carefully 
taken  off,  and  gradually  dried  and  powdered. 

(73.)  Iron  Rust  Cement . 

Take  one  hundred  parts  iron  filings,  pounded  and  sifted,  add  one 
part  sal  ammonia.  When  it  is  applied  give  it  sufficiency  of  water 
to  make  it  of  a paste  consistency.  This  cement  is  used  for  filling 
up  seams  of  iron.  It  will  sell  wherever  such  is  needed. 


Jp. 

r 


TEE  END. 


