Class 

Book 

Copyright  N^. 


COPYRIGHT  DEPOSIT. 


"Ready  for  Business' 


The  Orange  Judd 

Cook  Book 

A  Practical  Collection  of  Tested 

Recipes  for  Practical 

Housekeepers 


By 
ADELINE  O.  GOESSLING 


Illustrated 


ORANGE    JUDD    COMPANY 

Chicago,  Minneapolis,  Atlanta,  Springfield,  Mass., 

New  York, 

1914 


TXi\s 


Copyright,  1914 

Orange  Judd  Company 

New  York 


Cf;A'.3B727  7 


Printed  in  U.  S.  A 

OCT  29  \m 


TABLE   OF  CONTENTS 


Page 
Soups,  Stews  and  Chowders 1 

Fish,  Shell-Fish  and  Crustaceans 11 

Meat,  Poultry  and  Game 23 

Sauces  for  Meat,  Poultry  and  Game 42 

Potatoes,  Vegetables  and  Salads 45 

Puddings,  Custards  and  Sweet  Sauces 63 

Pies  and  Shortcakes 81 

Cakes,   Fillings  and  Frostings 97 

Ices,  Ice  Cream  and  Confections 119 

Beverages  and  Syrups 125 

Doughnuts,  Griddle  Cakes  and  Fritters 133 

Cookies,  Crackers  and  Small  Cakes 143 

Biscuits,  Muffins  and  Dumplings 153 

Bread,  Rolls  and  Buns 165 

Canning  and  Preserving 183 

Jellies,  Jams  and  Marmalades 201 

Pickling — Sour  and  Sweet 213 

Catsups  and  Relishes 225 

Butchering  Time  Recipes 233 

Addenda    256 


LIST  OF  ILLUSTRATIONS 

Page 

"Ready  for  Business" Frontispiece  / 

Brown  Bread,  Bran  Muffins  and  Gluten,  Drop  Biscuits 8  / 

German  Rusks 9  -^ 

Prune  Pie 16    j 

Checkerboard  Cake 17   ' 

Indian  Plum  Pudding 32  / 

Sponge  Cakes 33  /  , 

Caramel  Layer  Cake 48  • 

Egg  Timbales  with  Peas 49 «/ 

Afternoon  Tea  Cakes 64  ' 

Golden  Muffins 65  v 

Christmas  Plum  Pudding 80  ^! 

Grape  Foam 81 

Plain  Pumpkin  Pie 96  » 

Cream  Pumpkin  Pie 97  . 

Longfellow  Cake 113  j 

Doughnuts  with  Jelly 113  -^ 

Potato  Rolls-:. —.128  ^ 

Crescent  Buns '  129 »/ 

Sweet  Cider  Jelly 144  ■ 

Jellied  Chicken 145  - 

Grape  Nectar 160  ^ 

Grandmother's  Strawberry  Pie 161  ^ 

Raisin  Sponge  Roll 176  i 

English  Scones 177  - 

Colonial  Cherry  Punch 192 

Cheese  Cakes 193, 

"A  Cornish  Pasty  and  a  Dish  of  Tay" 208  . 

Lemon  Jelly 209 

Apple  Raisin  Cake 224  /^ 

Beet  and  Potato  Salad 225  ^' 

Common  Method  of  Cutting  Up  a  Beef 234  * 

Chicago  Retail  Method 234 » 

Pork  Carcass  on  a  Block 2364 

How  to  Cut  Pork  for  Barreling 237* 

How  to  Roast  Beef 240v 

Trimmings  for  Christmas  Candy 241  \y 

• 


INTRODUenON 

'JV       ^HANY  and  various  are  the  cook  books  now 
^jS^^C       on  the  market,  but  few,  if  any,  are  plain, 
practical,  thorough,  and  complete  enough 
for  all-around  use  and  everyday  reference 
in   farm   homes — in   families   where   plain 
tastes   and   limited   means   forbid   extrav- 
agant or  fancy  culinary  indulgences  and  the  accompany- 
ing unnecessary  expenditure  of  time  and  labor. 

This  book  is  intended  especially  and  primarily  for 
farm  cooks,  though  it  will  be  found  equally  useful  and 
helpful  in  the  city  kitchen  where  economy  is  an  object. 
It  is,  of  course,  understood  that  country  or  farm  house- 
keepers have  many  advantages  their  town  sisters  lack, 
such  as  fresh  fruits,  vegetables,  poultry,  eggs,  milk, 
cream  and  butter,  which  naturally  cannot  always  be  had 
in  city  markets,  where  even  inferior  grades  of  produce  are 
high  priced.  In  the  average  farm  kitchen  such  things 
are  considered  necessities,  not  luxuries,  and  are  accepted 
quite  as  a  matter  of  course.  How  true  it  is  that  blessings 
brighten  when  they  take  their  flight,  as  many  an  ex- 
country  housewife  could  testify! 

But  in  spite  of  the  many  advantages  which  the  farm 
cook  enjoys,  it  is  a  deplorable  fact  that  poor  cooks  are 
not  confined  to  city  limits.  It  is  a  pity  that  there  should 
be  any  poor  cooks,  in  city  or  country,  since  the  art  of 
plain  and  wholesome  cooking  is  an  easy  one  to  master 
and  yet  means  so  much  in  the  life  economy  of  worjcing 
people,  who  in  turn  are  of  the  utmost  importance  in  the 
grand  scheme  of  life. 

Some  women  do  not  seem  to  realize  that  very 
intimate  relations  exist  between  their  own  kitchens  and 
the    despised  .liquor    saloons.     Poor    cooks    have    done 


THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK 


more  to  drive  men  to  strong  drink  than  all  the  female 
temperance  lecturers  in  the  world  can  ever  hope  to 
redeem.  To  accomplish  the  most  effective  work  for 
the  cause  of  temperance,  health  and  happiness,  it  is 
therefore  necessary  that  women  should  first  of  all  learn 
how  to  properly  prepare  palatable  and  nourishing  food 
which  will  so  well  satisfy  the  natural  cravings  of  the 
average  human  stomach  that  artificial  and  harmful 
stimulants  will  not  be  required.  We  should  eat  intel- 
ligently. Food  and  drink  are  to  the  human  machine 
what  fuel  and  oil  are  to  the  mechanical. 

It  is  hoped  that  this  little  cook  book  will  induce 
housewives  to  try  an  occasional  change  in  their  usual 
daily  bill  of  fare.  The  introduction  of-  some  variety  will 
make  the  cook's  work  less  monotonous  and  is  likely  to 
be  appreciated  by  other  members  of  the  family  as  well. 

The  editor  of  this  unique  little  cook  book  begs  the 
indulgence  of  all  who  may  become  possessed  of  a  copy. 
She  does  not  claim  to  ''know  it  all,"  and  in  this  instance 
has  confined  herself  chiefly  to  the  task  of  picking  out 
from  among  a  million  good  recipes,  kindly  contributed 
by  housekeeping  readers,  such  as  seemed  the  best  and 
the  most  deserving  of  finding  a  place  in  the  "Orange 
Judd  Cook  Book." 

A  glance  through  the  index  will  prove  that  there  is 
no  lack  of  variety,  and  every  woman  who  is  represented 
in  this  book  with  one  or  more  recipes  has  reason  to  be 
proud  of  being  found  in  such  good  company. 

The  editor  extends  hearty  thanks  to  each  and  every 
one  for  the  kindly  and  intelligent  co-operation  which 
helped  to  make  this  book  possible,  and  that  in  turn,  it  is 
hoped,  will  help  out  many  sister  cooks  all  over  this  broad 
land  of  ours,  where  the  "Orange  Judd"  papers  are  wel- 
come visitors,  when  confronted  with  the  problem,  "what 
shall  I  cook,  for  a  change?" 

A.  O.  G. 


Soups,  Stews  and  Qhowders 

ECIPES  for  soups  and  stews  vary  so  much 
in  small  details  that  it  may  safely  be  said 
that  no  two  cooks  make  any  soup  or  stew 
ahke.  Nevertheless,  there  are  some  funda- 
mental rules  that  cover  this  culinary  branch, 
as  well  as  all  others.  The  following  recipes 
present  a  nice  variety,  and  any  of  them  may  be  slightly 
altered  to  suit  individual  tastes.  Good,  palatable  and 
nourishing  soups  and  stews  are  as  inexpensive  as  they  are 
easy  to  prepare,  and  should  be  served  frequently,  especially 
during  cold  weather.  When  properly  prepared  they  will 
not  be  refused  by  anyone  blessed  with  normal  tastes  and 
hearty  appetite.  To  say  that  your  family  does  not  like 
soup  is  to  confess  that  you  are  not  quite  "up"  to  making 
soup  as  palatable  as  it  might  be,  and  this  is  a  lack  which 
the  following  recipes  will  help  anyone  to  overcome. 

Vegetable  Sonp  I 

To  3  pts  water  add  3  large  fresh  tomatoes  or  an  equal 
amount  of  canned  tomatoes,  1  large  potato,  peeled  and  sliced,  1 
small  carrot,  peeled  and  cut  very  fine,  a  few  tender  cabbage 
leaves  chopped  fine,  2  small  onions  cut  fine,  salt  to  taste,  1 
heaping  tablesp  drippings  or  butter,  and  %  teasp  mixed  celery 
and  coriander  seeds,  with  1  bay  leaf  and  1  small  pod  red  pep- 
per. One  or  2  stalks  of  celery  may  be  added.  If  liked.  Boil 
until  the  vegetables  are  thoroughly  cooked,  adding  a  little  boil- 
ing water  occasionally,  if  necessary. — [Mrs.  A.  B.  C,  Tex. 

Vegetable  Soup  II 

Put  about  Vz  or  %  cup  of  left-over  meat  gravy  or  fryings 
together  with  a  little  left-over  meat,  if  you  have  it,  in  a  soup 
kettle  with  ^2  doz  onions,  cut  fine  and  browned  in  a  little  drip- 
pings, and  add  2  qts  water,  1  cup  tomatoes,  salt  to  taste,  ^^ 
small,  tender  cabbage,  2  small  carrots,  1  rutabaga,  1  parsnip, 
and  3  potatoes,  all  cut  fine.  Let  boil  gently  about  lU  hours, 
adding  a  little  more  boiling  water,  if  needed.  Dumplings  or 
jnoodles  can  be  boiled  in  this  soup  20  minutes  before  serving, 
or  the  soup  can  be  slightly  thickened  with  a  little  flour,  stirred 
smooth  in  a  little  cold  water. — [Mrs.  W.  J.,  Wis. 


THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK 


Vegetable  Soup  III 

Put  on  a  shank  soup  bone  of  about  2  lbs  in  cold  water  enough 
to  cover,  and  boil  until  all  marrow  and  juice  are  extracted. 
Then  remove  meat  and  strain  the  broth  through  a  wire  sieve, 
adding  hot  water  to  it  to  make  about  3  qts.  Return  broth  to 
the  fire  and  add  1  onion,  1  carrot,  2  potatoes,  2  tomatoes,  a 
few  crisp  tender  leaves  of  cabbage,  all  chopped  fine,  2  tablesp 
rice,  .half  teasp  celery  seed,  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Boil 
until  all  the  ingredients  are  thoroughly  done. — [E.  W.,  Wash. 

Tomato  Soup  I 

To  1  qt  fresh  or  canned  tomatoes  add  1  pt  boiling  water,  and 
when  the  tomatoes  are  soft,  strain  through  a  colander,  return 
to  the  fire  and  thicken  with  a  little  white  flour  or  graham  flour. 
When  the  soup  has  boiled  up  thoroughly,  season  with  salt  to 
taste,  then  put  in  1  level  teasp  soda,  and  while  it  is  foaming, 
pour  in  1  qt  hot  milk.  Add  a  generous  lump  of  butter,  and 
serve  hot  with  oyster  crackers.  Do  not  let  the  soup  boil  after 
the  milk  has  been  added. — [Mrs.  W.  M.  G.,  Ct. 

Tomato  Soup  11 

To  2  qts  water  add  2  medium  sized  potatoes,  peeled  and  sliced 
or  cut  in  small  cubes,  1  onion,  chopped  fine,  1  cup  tomato 
juice,  and  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  mixed  with  1 
tablesp  flour.  Cook  until  tender.  Do  not  add  the  butter  and 
flour  until  about  15  minutes  before  removing  from  the  fire. — ' 
[Mrs.  L.  W.,  Ind. 

Tomato  Soup  III 

To  2  large  potatoes,  peeled  and  sliced,  add  3  onions  and  6 
tomatoes,  peeled  and  sliced.  Boil  all  together  in  about  3 
pts  water,  until  the  potatoes  are  soft,  then  mash  all  through 
a,  sieve  and  add  1  qt  hot  milk,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  and  1 
tablesp  flour  mixed  to  a  thin  paste  with  a  little  cold  water. 
Season  with  pepper  and  salt  and  let  boil  until  the  flour  is  thor- 
oughly cooked. —  [E.  M.  R.,  Cal. 

Cream   of  Potato   Soup 

For  each  qt  soup  required,  allow  3  medium  sized  potatoes, 
peeled  and  cut  in  slices,  and  cooked  in  sufficient  water  to 
cover.  When  tender,  rub  through  a  colander,  then  return  to 
the  fire  and  add  3  cups  hot  milk,  a  lump  of  butter,  and  salt  to 
taste.  When  the  soup  has  come  to  a  boil,  add  1  tablesp  flour 
rubbed  smooth  in  a  little  cold  water,  and  boil  a  few  minutes 
longer,  and  serve.  A  slice  of  onion  or  a  stalk  of  celery  may  be 
simmered  in  the  soup  for  a  few  minutes  to  flavor  it,  if  liked, 
and  then  removed. —  [Miss  E.  I.  B.,  Cal. 


THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK 


Potato  and  Celery  Soup 

Boil  3  potatoes  until  soft,  mash,  then  add  1  pt  hot  milk  and  1 
stalk  celery  trimmed  and  cut  fine,  1  teasp  chopped  onions,  half 
tablesp  flour  blended  with  1  tablesp  butter  and  salt  to  taste. 
Let  boil  until  the  onion  and  celery  are  done. — [Mrs.  C.  E.  G., 
Ariz. 

Potato  and  Onion  Soup 

To  3  medium  sized  potatoes,  peeled  and  sliced,  add  3  small 
onions,  sliced,  y2  cup  rice  and  3  pts  water.  When  done  strain 
through  a  colander,  add  a  lump  of  butter,  and  salt  and  pepper 
to  taste,  and  serve  with  crisp  crackers. —  [B.  O.,  Kan. 

Ci'eam  of  Pea  Soup 

Drain  the  liquor  from  1  qt  canned  peas,  then  add  to  the 
peas  2  cups  clear,  cold  water  and  1  slice  of  onion,  with  salt  to 
taste.  Cook  about  10  minutes,  then  strain  and  add  2  cups 
scalded  milk,  thickened  with  2  tablesp  flour  blended  with  2 
tablesp  butter. — [L.  C,  Pa. 

Split  Pea  Soup 

Boil  some  beef  bones  in  water  in  which  corned  beef  or  salt 
pork  has  been  boiled,  but  be  careful  that  it  is  not  too  salty. 
When  done,  drain  out  the  beef  bones  and  add  to  the  broth  1 
qt  split  peas,  and  let  boil  until  soft,  after  which  mash  through 
a  colander  and  return  to  the  fire,  with  1  onion,  1  small  turnip 
and  1  carrot,  chopped  very  fine.  Boil  until  done.  When 
serving,  drop  some  croutons  in  each  plate. —  [B.  B.,  Pa. 

Bean  Soup 

In  the  morning  put  1  cup  dried  beans  to  soak  in  cold  water 
with  V2  teasp  soda,  for  1  hour,  then  parboil  the  beans  in  the 
same  water,  and  rinse  thoroughly  in  cold  water,  after  which 
return  to  the  fire  with  1  qt  clear,  cold  water  and  cook  slowly 
until  soft,  then  add  1  or  2  cups  tomatoes  and  cook  %  hour, 
after  which  add  a  little  butter  and  pepper,  and  salt,  and  a 
very  little  sugar,  to  taste. —  [B.  O.,  Kan. 

German  Bean  Soup 

Boil  2  lbs  lean  meat  from  the  rump  in  2  qts  water.  Skim 
when  it  begins  to  boil  and  then  let  it  simmer  2^^  hours.  Add 
1  earrot,  1  onion,  '^^  small  parsnip  and  a  few  stalks  of  celery, 
chopped  very  fine,  and  3  cloves,  6  allspice,  a  small  piece  of  red 
pepper  pod,  {tie  spices  in  a  cheese  cloth  bag)  and  boil  2  hours 


THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK 


longer,  seasoning  with  salt  to  taste.  Soak  2  cups  dried  beans 
in  cold  water  over  night,  then  pour  off  the  water  and  boil  in 
fresh  water  1  hour,  then  pour  off  the  water  again  and  add 
boiling  hot  water  enough  to  cook  the  beans  until  they  are  soft, 
but  not  soft  enough  to  fall  to  pieces.  When  soft  drain  them 
through  a  colander,  add  them  to  the  soup  prepared  as  directed 
above,  and  boil  all  together  ^  hour. —  [N.  P.,  N.  H. 

Baked  Bean  Soup 

To  IV2  cups  cold  baked  beans,  add  4  cups  boiling  water,  1 
small  onion  cut  fine,  and  scant  i/i  teasp  celery  salt.  Cook 
about  20  minutes,  then  rub  through  a  sieve  and  add  14  cup 
tomato  catsup  with  salt  to  taste.  Melt  and  blend  1  tablesp 
butter  with  one  tablesp  flour,  and  stir  this  into  boiling  soup. 
Serve  with  toasted  cubes  of  bread. — [Mrs.  H.  A.  D.,  Mass. 

Cream  of  Corn  Soup 

Take  1  doz  ears  tender  green  corn,  slit  each  row  of  kernels 
through  the  middle  with  a  sharp  knife,  then  with  the  back  of 
the  knife  scrape  out  the  pulp,  being  careful  not  to  get  any  of 
the  hull  with  it.  Add  1  pt  water  to  the  corn  and  boil  about  15 
minutes,  then  add  1  pt  scalded  milk  with  1  teasp  flour  mixed 
to  a  thin  paste  with  a  little  cold  water,  and  season  with  salt, 
pepper  and  butter.  Two  minutes  before  serving,  add  the 
beaten  yolks  of  1  or  2  eggs. — [L.  A.  K.,  111. 

Green  Com  Sonp 

To  clear  chicken  or  beef  broth  add  com  cut  from  six  ears,  I 
beaten  egg,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  a  little  flour  mixed  with  a 
little  water.  Boil  about  5  or  10  minutes.  It  is  best  not  to  add 
the  egg  until  just  before  serving,  as  1  or  2  minutes'  boiling  is 
sufiicient  for  the  egg. —  [Mrs.  D.  M.  W.,  111. 

Cabbage  Soup 

Chop  fine  %  head  tender  white  cabbage  and  let  boil  i/^  hour 
in  1  pt  water,  by  which  time  the  water  will  be  nearly  cooked 
away.  Drain  out  the  remaining  water,  then  add  1  pt  boiling 
milk,  %  cup  cream,  butter  size  of  an  egg,  and  pepper  and  salt 
to  taste.     Serve  with  crisp  crackers. — [Mrs.  F.  F.  R.,  Vt. 

Cream  of  Onion  Soup 

Put  3  tablesp  batter  in  a  frying  pan  and  slice  in  6  onions. 
Stir  well  until  they  begin  to  cook,  then  cover  and  set  on  the 
back  of  the  range  where  they  will  simmer  for  y2  hour,  being 
careful  not  to  burn.  Then  add  1  tablesp  flour  to  the  onions,  stir 


THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK 


constantly  for  about  2  or  3  minutes,  and  then  turn  in  1  qt 
scalded  milk  and  boil  15  minutes,  after  which  strain  through 
a  sieve,  return  to  the  fire,  add  1  cup  cream,  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste,  and  the  beaten  yolk  of  1  egg.  Boil  3  minutes  longer,  and 
serve  at  once.  If  you  have  no  cream,  use  1  tablesp  butter 
instead. —  [N.  P.,  N.  H. 

Cream  of  Carrot  Soup 

Boil  1  pt  of  carrots  until  tender  and  then  rub  through  a 
sieve.  Put  1  tablesp  butter  in  a  sauce  pan  with  1  tablesp  flour 
and  stir  until  smooth,  then  add  1  qt  hot  chicken  broth  or  milk. 
Let  boil  5  minutes,  then  add  the  strained  carrots,  and  season 
with  pepper  and  salt.  Just  before  serving,  add  1  pt  rich  milk 
and  the  well-beaten  yolks  of  2  eggs,  with  a  little  chopped  pars- 
ley.—  [Miss  R.  F.,  Ct. 

Asparagus  Soup 

Boil  a  good  sized  bunch  of  asparagus,  trimmed  and  cut  in 
small  pieces  in  water  enough  to  cover  and  when  tender,  mash 
through  a  sieve.  Add  to  the  water  in  which  asparagus  was 
cooked,  1  cup  milk,  a  lump  of  butter  and  salt  to  taste.  Then 
add  the  strained  asparagus,  let  all  come  to  a  boil,  and  thicken 
with  1  teasp  cornstarch  mixed  with  a  little  cold  water. — [Mrs. 
C.  B.,  Pa. 

Cream  of  Celery  Soup 

Trim  and  cut  celery  in  small  pieces  and  boil  in  a  little  salted 
water  until  tender.  Melt  1  tablesp  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  2 
tablesp  flour,  stir  until  light  brown,  then  pour  in  slowly,  stir- 
ring all  the  while,  milk  according  to  the  amount  of  soup  you 
wish  to  prepare.  Boil  a  few  minutes,  then  add  the  drained 
celery  and  serve  at  once  with  crisp  crackers,  or  dice  of  toast. 
Odds  and  ends  of  celery  can  be  used  up  to  good  advantage  In 
this  way. —  [Mrs.  A.  W.  S.,  Pa. 

Cream  of  Rutabaga  Soup 

Mash  3  cups  of  boiled  rutabaga,  stir  in  2  qts  hot  milk,  and 
when  boiling  add  1  onion  cut  fine,  1  heaping  tablesp  butter, 
melted  and  blended  with  1  tablesp  flour.  Season  with  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste. — [Mrs.    L.  S.,  Minn. 

Ham  and  Vegetable  Soup 

After  all  the  good  meat  has  been  sliced  off  the  ham,  put  the 
bone  on  to  boil  in  plenty  of  water,  and  when  the  meat  which 
adheres  to  it  begins  to  get  tender,  add  3  or  4  small  carrots  cut 
fine,  y^  head  tender  cabbage,  cut  fine,  and  a  few  potatoes, 
sliced.  Cook  until  the  vegetables  are  tender. — [Mrs.  A.  P. 
Neb. 


THE   ORANGE  JUDD   COOK  BOOK 


Beef  Soup 

The  best  cuts  for  beef  soup  are  from  the  rump,  shoulder  or 
plate,  the  latter  being  the  cheaper  grades  of  the  sides  and  flank. 
Oxtails  also  make  a  strong,  rich^soup,  and  lean  meat  is  better 
than  fat  meat,  greasy  soup  being  unwholesome.  Always  cook 
a  few  beef  or  veal  bones  with  the  soup,  and  a  little  piece  of  beef 
liver  the  size  of  an  egg  imparts  a  delicious  flavor,  which,  how- 
ever, cannot  be  recognized  as  liver.  Soup  requires  long  and 
slow  boiling  to  extract  the  juice  from  the  meat.  If  boiled  too 
hard,  the  meat  will  be  hard  and  tough  and  will  not  yield  its 
juices.  Put  the  meat  and  bone  on  with  cold  water,  and  when 
it  comes  to  a  boil,  skim  carefully  and  do  not  add  salt  until 
after  you  are  through  skimming.  For  1  lb  meat,  allow  1  qt 
water,  1  small  onion,  a  small  stalk  of  celery,  sprig  of  parsley, 
and  1  teasp  rice  may  be  added.  If  liked,  or  1  small  potato. 
Oxtails  should  be  chopped  into  pieces  and  boiled  4  or  5  hours. 
If  it  should  become  necessary  to  add  water  to  the  soup  while 
boiling,  add  boiling  water,  as  the  addition  of  lukewarm  or  cold 
water  will  stop  the  boiling  and  spoil  the  flavor.  Be  very  care- 
ful not  to  over-salt.  Before  serving,  strain  the  soup  througk 
a  fine  sieve.  This  soup  is  nice  to  serve  clear,  or  to  use  as  a 
foundation  stock  for  other  soups. — [Mrs.  G.,  Wis. 

Beef  and  Tomato  Soup 

Boil  a  good  soup  bone  in  about  1  gal  cold  water,  with  salt  to 
taste,  until  the  meat  is  nearly  tender.  Then  add  1  pt  tomatoes, 
V2  cup  rice  and  1  pt  sliced  potatoes,  with  2  or  3  stalks  of  celery 
and  a  small  onion,  cut  fine. — [B.  O.,  Kan. 

Veal  Soup 

Boil  a  veal  bone  about  3  hours,  with  potatoes,  celery,  onions 
and  any  other  vegtable  desired,  but  nothing  acid,  like  toma- 
toes. When  the  vegetables  are  tender,  strain  the  soup  and  let 
it  come  to  a  boil,  and  when  ready  to  serve,  add  1  pt  milk  and 
2  well-beaten  eggs. —  [A.  H.  B.,  Mich. 

Mutton  Soup  with  Tapioca 

Put  about  3  lbs  mutton  with  as  much  bone  in  4  qts  of  water, 
and  let  simmer  at  least  5  hours.  Then  strain  and  cool,  remove 
layer  of  fat,  and  return  broth  to  the  fire.  Add  1  onion,  2  small 
carrots,  1  small  turnip  and  2  stalks  celery,  all  cut  fine,  and  boil 
until  vegetables  are  very  tender.  Have  ready  4  tablesp  tapioca 
soaked  in  cold  water,  stir  this  gradually  into  the  soup,  and  boil 
10  minutes  longer. — [M.  W.  W.,  O. 


THE   ORANGE  JUDD   COOK  BOOK 


Chicken  and  Bean  Soup 

Clean  and  cut  up  a  nice  fat  hen,  and  put  on  to  boil  in  plenty 
cold  water.  Parboil  1  qt  white  beans,  adding  %  teasp  soda 
after  they  have  boiled  about  5  minutes.  Then  drain  and  add  the 
beans  to  the  chicken,  and  boil  until  both  are  tender.  Season, 
to  taste. — [Mrs.  S.  O.,  N.  D. 

Cliicken  and  Rice  Soup 

Cut  a  nice  fat  chicken  in  small  pieces,  cover  well  with  cold 
water  and  add  salt  and  1  cup  rice.  Boil  slowly  until  done,  add- 
ing more  water  as  needed.  When  nearly  done,  add  a  few  noo- 
dles or  dumplings  and  boil  until  done. — [Mrs.  W.  H.  L.,  Ky. 

Giblet  Soup 

The  head,  neck,  feet,  heart,  stomach,  lungs  and  liver  of  a 
chicken  are  often  thrown  away.  If  properly  cleansed  and  pre- 
pared, they  make  a  nourishing  soup.  Split  the  heads,  pick  ofC 
all  feathers,  and  lay  in  salt  water.  Pour  boiling  water  over  the 
feet  and  pull  off  the  skin.  Wash  the  heart,  clean  stomach, 
lungs,  liver  and  neck  in  cold  water.  For  three  sets  giblets 
allow  3  pts  water,  and  simmer  gently  3  hours.  When  cold  it 
will  be  like  jelly.  The  soup  should  be  salted  to  taste  and  fla- 
vored with  a  few  peppercorns. — [I.  A.  G.,  N.  Y. 

Five  Minute  Soup 

Cut  some  stale  slices  of  bread  into  small  dice.  Heat  some 
butter  in  a  frying  pan,  and  when  hot  fry  the  diced  bread  in  this, 
and  when  nicely  browned  add  hot  milk  according  to  the  quan- 
tity of  bread.  Season  with  pepper  and  salt  and  serve  as  soon 
as  it  has  boiled  up  once.  This  soup  can  be  prepared  in  5  min- 
utes— hence  the  name. — [I.  A.  G.,  N.  Y, 

Salsify  or  Mock  Oyster  Soup 

"Wash  and  slice  thin,  enough  salsify  to  make  1  pt  and  boil  in 
3  pts  water  20  minutes,  then  add  1  qt  scalded  milk,  2  tablesp 
butter  blended  with  1  tablesp  flour  and  pepper  and  salt  to 
taste.     Serve  with  oyster  crackers. — [Mrs.  W.  G.  McH.,  Kan. 

Rivel  Milk  Soup 

Put  on  to  boil  1  qt  or  more  of  milk,  with  a  little  water.  Pre- 
pare egg  rivels  by  taking  some  flour,  a  pinch  of  salt  and  1  egg, 
and  stirring  them  together  until  the  mass  forms  into  little 
"rivels,"  Add  these  to  the  boiling  milk,  salt  to  taste,  and  let 
boil  until  the  rivels  are  done. —  [Mrs.  L.  M.,  O. 


THE   ORANCxE   JUDD   COOK  BOOK 


German  Noodles 

Beat  up  1  egg  with  1  tablesp  water,  add  some  salt,  and  then 
work  in  all  the  flour  possible.  Turn  out  on  floured  board,  roll 
very  thin,  cut  into  pieces  and  roll  each  piece  as  thin  as  a  piece 
of  paper.  Let  these  pieces  dry,  but  not  long  enough  to  become 
brittle.  After  they  have  dried,  lay  the  pieces  one  on  top  of  the 
other,  roll  up,  and  with  a  sharp  knife,  cut  very  thin  slices  from 
this  roll.  Toss  the  noodles  lightly  to  separate  them,  let  them 
dry,  and  store  in  well-covered  tins  or  jars. —  [A.  G.,  ]\Tass. 

Egg  Noodles 

To  2  well-beaten  eggs  add  1  cup  sweet  milk,  a  generous  pinch 
of  salt,  and  flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff  dough,  sifted  with  2 
level  teasp  baking  powder.  Roll  thin  like  piecrust,  and  cut  in 
strips  like  shoe  strings.  These  are  fine  cooked  in  beef  or 
chicken  broth. — [Mrs.  H.  D.  K.  T.,  Minn. 

Croutons  for  Soup 

Trim  slices  of  stale  bread,  cut  into  small  cubes  about  ^/^  inch 
square,  and  brown  in  a  moderate  oven,  or  fry  brown  in  hot 
butter.  Especially  nice  to  serve  with  chicken  broth,  bean  soup 
or  split  pea  soup. —  [Miss  E.  I.  B.,  Cal. 

Meat  Stew  with  Dumplings 

Cut  about  2  lbs  of  any  kind  of  fresh  meat  into  small  pieces, 
and  cook  in  2  qts  water  with  salt  to  taste.  If  the  meat  is  very 
lean  add  2  slices  salt  pork  fat.  After  cooking  1  hour,  add  4 
potatoes  and  2  onions,  sliced.  When  these  are  tender,  add 
dumplings  or  noodles,  and  when  done,  serve  at  once. —  [Mrs. 
S.  P.,  Mass. 

Beef  Stew 

Take  about  7  or  8  lbs  of  beef  from  a  low-priced  cut — the 
lower  part  of  the  leg — and  boil  in  enough  water  to  cover,  until 
the  meat  parts  from  the  bone.  Remove  the  bone,  skim  off  the 
fat,  and  then  add  8  potatoes,  1  small  turnip  and  4  onions,  cut 
fine.  When  nearly  done,  add  dumplings  made  from  1  pt  flour, 
a  little  salt,  %  teasp  soda,  and  sour  milk  enough  to  make  a 
stiff  batter  that  will  drop  from  the  spoon.  Cook  about  12  or  15 
minutes. — [M.  L.  Q.,  Me. 

Beef  Liver  Stew 

Into  a  frying  pan  put  a  generous  tablesp  of  lard  or  drippings, 
and  when  smoking  hot  put  in  about  1  lb  beef  liver,  sliced  and  1 
small  onion,  minced  fine,  and  sprinkle  with  salt.  Let  fry  until 
brown  on  both  sides,  then  just  cover  with  boiling  water,  cover 


THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK 


pan,  and  let  boil  gently  about  5  minutes.  Tb'icken  the  gravy  to 
the  proper  consistency  with  a  little  flour  and  cold  water  stirred 
together.     Serve  with  toasted  cubes  of  bread. — [Mrs.  G.,  Wis. 

Corned  Beef  Stew  with  Suet  Dumplings 

If  the  corned  beef  pieces  are  thin,  they  should  be  rolled  up 
and  tied  with  cord.  Put  the  beef  on  to  cook  in  hot  water,  and 
boil  until  tender,  then  add  suet  dumplings  made  as  follows:  To 
1 V2  pts  flour  add  1  teasp  baking  powder,  1  scant  teasp  salt,  and 
V4,  pt  suet,  chopped  very  fine.  Stir  in  enough  cold  water  to 
make  a  stiff  dough.  Cut  off  small  balls  with  a  spoon  and  drop 
into  boiling  stew  and  boil  about  ^  hour. — [Mrs.  S.  E.  B.,  Ind. 

New  England  Stew 

Boil  slowly  3  lbs  corned  beef  about  2  hours,  then  add  1  qt 
potatoes  peeled,  and  if  large,  cut  in  half,  1  qt  turnips,  peeled 
and  cut  to  the  same  size  as  the  potatoes,  1  pt  onions,  cut  in 
halves,  or  quarters,  1  qt  carrots,  scraped  and  cut  in  medium 
sized  pieces,  a  small  head  of  crisp,  tender  cabbage,  cut  in 
eighths,  some  parsnips,  and  any  other  vegetable  that  is  liked, 
season  with  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and  boil  until  all  the  veg- 
etables are  well  done. —  [Mrs.  L.  A.  G.,  Me. 

Fresh  Pork  Stew 

Chop  2  onions  and  fry  them  a  nice  brown,  then  add  2  cloves, 
a  very  little  chopped  sage,  1  tablesp  vinegar,  1  cup  pork  roast 
gravy,  a  little  pepper  and  salt,  and  the  remains  of  cold  roast 
pork,  cut  into  small  pieces.  Simmer  gently  i^  hour.  Thicken 
the  gravy  with  1  teasp  flour,  blended  with  a  little  cold  water, 
serve  with  cubes  of  toasted  bread. — [N.  S.  C,  Cal. 

Salt  Pork  Stew 

Fry  10  generous  slices  of  salt  pork  until  light  brown  on  both 
sides,  then  slice  in  4  or  5  onions,  and  when  all  are  brown,  add  2 
qts  hot  water,  10  or  12  potatoes,  peeled  and  cut  in  small  pieces, 
and  1  small  turnip,  cut  fine.  Season  to  taste  with  salt  and  pep- 
per, and  cook  slowly  until  the  vegetables  are  tender.  Carrots 
or  parsnips  may  be  added  if  liked. — [Mrs.  L.  A.  G.,  Me. 

Irish  Stew 

Cut  into  small  pieces  any  kind  of  fresh  meat  or  chicken  (just 
left-overs  will  do),  and  put  over  the  fire  with  a  little  more 
than  enough  water  to  cover,  adding  salt  to  taste,  a  generous 
lump  of  butter,  and  a  few  potatoes  cut  in  small  pieces.  Cook 
until  the  potatoes  are  tender,  then  add  2  teasp  flour,  stirred 
smooth  with  a  little  milk,  for  every  qt  of  stew.  Boll  about  5 
minutes  longer. — [Mrs.  W.  W.  P.,  Okla. 


10  THE   ORANGE  JUDD   COOK  BOOK 


Picnic  Stew 

This  is  a  great  southern  picnic  dish.  Two  kinds  of  meat  are 
required — salt  pork,  and  either  beef  or  chicken,  preferably 
<;hicken.  Always  allow  half  the  quantity  of  salt  pork  to  either 
chicken  or  beef.  To  2  lbs  meat  add  1  lb  pork  and  3  qts  water, 
and  let  boil  3  hours,  then  add  1  qt  sliced  potatoes,  1  qt  butter 
beans,  3  onions,  1  qt  tomatoes,  1  qt  milk  corn  cut  from  the 
cobs,  and  season  to  taste  xnth  salt  and  cayenne  pepper.  Boil 
and  stir  frequently  until  the  meat  and  vegetables  are  thor- 
oughly done  and  the  stew  is  of  the  consistency  of  thick  cream. 
Serve  with  crisp  soda  crackers.  For  picnics  this  stew,  in  more 
generous  quantities,  is  generally  made  over  a  gypsy  fire  in  a 
large  iron  kettle,  and  the  cook  begins  his  preparations  10  or  12 
hours  before  the  stew  is  to  be  served. — [Mrs.  H.  L.,  Va. 

Mock  Clam  Chovrder 

Put  5  or  6  slices  of  fat  salt  pork  in  a  hot  sauce  pan  and  try 
them  out  thoroughly,  then  remove  the  crisp  pieces  of  pork  and 
add  to  the  tried  out  fat  5  potatoes  and  5  onions,  chopped  coarse 
with  about  %  cup  water,  :ind  let  simmer  %  hour.  Then  add 
IV2  cups  scalded  milk,  and  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Just 
before  serving,  drop  in  the  crisp  pieces  of  tried  out  salt  pork, 
and  serve  with  crisp  saltine  crackers.— [Mrs.  C.  J.,  Ct, 

Com  Chowder 

Fry  3  slices  salt  pork  and  2  onions  sliced  thin,  and  when 
brown  add  2  qts  water.  When  this  boils  add  V2  doz  potatoes, 
peeled  and  sliced,  and  1  qt  can  of  corn.  Let  boil  about  20  min- 
utes, then  add  1  pt  scalded  sweet  milk.  Season  to  taste  with 
salt  and  butter,  and  serve  at  once,  with  crisp  crackers. — [B.  H. 
K..  Me. 

Potato  Chowder 

Fry  until  crisp  4  or  5  slices  of  salt  pork,  then  slice  in  3 
onions,  and  when  these  are  fried  light  brown,  add  5  potatoes, 
sliced,  with  water  to  cover.  Cover  and  cook  till  the  potatoes 
are  done.  Just  before  serving  add  1  pt  hot  milk,  and  serve 
with  crisp  crackers. — [Mrs.  H.  A.  D.,  Mass. 

Egg  Chowder 

Fry  2  or  3  slices  of  salt  pork  till  quite  brown,  then  add  4  or 
5  potatoes,  sliced,  and  hot  water  to  cover.  When  the  potatoes 
are  done,  add  1  pt  hot  milk,  and  slice  in  5  hard  boiled  eggs. 
Let  boil  up  once,  add  a  generous  lump  of  butter,  with  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste,  and  serve  at  once. — [F.  L.  R.,  Ct. 


Pish,  Shell^Pish  and  Qrustaceans 

ITCHEN  lore  has  it  that  fish  is  good  brain 
food.  This  is  probably  owing  to  the  fact 
that  fish  contains  all  the  elements  of  meat 
in  an  easily  digested  form,  and  is,  therefore, 
more  easily  assimilated  by  the  system  and 
consequently  especially  good  for  people 
yoing  brain  work  or  following  other  sedentary  occupations. 
As  a  matter  of  fact,  good  fish  properly  prepared  is  always 
■wholesome  food  for  old  and  young,  and  particularly  so  in 
spring,  after  a  season  of  "heavy"  eating,  as  is  usual  in  win- 
ter. The  observance  of  Lent  is  therefore  to  be  recom- 
mended, even  to  those  who  do  not  consider  it  a  religious 
duty.  The  following  recipes  offer  a  nice  variety  in  the  way 
of  fish  food. 

To  Can  Fish 

Clean,  scrape  and  wash  fish  thoroughly  in  plenty  fresh  water. 
Cut  into  pieces  of  convenient  size,  but  do  not  remove  large 
bones  or  skin — only  fins,  head,  tail,  etc.  Have  in  readiness 
glass  fruit  jars  perfectly  clean  and  dry,  with  new  rubbers 
and  covers  to  fit  air  tight,  put  a  little  salt  in  the  Dottom  of  the 
jars,  dry  the  pieces  of  fish  with  a  clean  towel,  then  pack  in  a 
layer  of  fish,  fill  the  crevices  with  salt,  put  in  more  fish  and 
salt,  and  so  continue  until  the  jar  is  full,  using  no  water. 
Pack  down  as  solidly  as  possible.  Screw  the  lids  on  lightly, 
then  put  the  cans  in  a  boiler  the  same  as  for  canning  fruit 
(see  rules  for  canning),  pour  in  cold  water  to  within  an  inch 
of  the  tops  of  the  cans,  cover  the  boiler,  bring  the  water  slowly 
to  a  boil,  and  let  boil  steadily  3  or  4  hours.  Do  not  le.t  the 
water  stop  boiling,  and  do  not  let  any  steam  escape.  When 
done  lift  out  one  can  at  a  time,  screw  the  covers  down  as 
tightly  as  possible,  and  after  all  the  covers  are  screwed  down 
tight,  return  the  cans  to  the  boiler,  pour  in  more  boiling  water, 
so  as  to  fully  cover  the  cans,  then  cover  the  boiler,  and  set  it 
away  to  get  cold.  When  cold  take  out  each  can  carefully 
and  turn  each  one  on  its  head.  Leave  them  standing  thus 
about  an  hour,  and  if  there  is  no  leakage,  brush  melted  paraf- 
fine  around  the  edge  of  the  lids,  and  set  away  ia  a  cold,  dry 
and  dark  place.    I  also  can  meat  this  way,  removing  the  bones 

11 


12         THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK 

and  adding  spices  to  suit.  Be  sure  to  boil  long  enough,  and  be 
sure  the  cans  are  air  tight.  Last  year  I  canned  70  qt  jars  of 
beef  in  two  days,  and  did  not  lose  a  can.  By  simply  heating  it 
up,  I  can  have  fresh  meat  or  fish  any  time. —  [Mrs.  A.  A., 
Wash. 

To  Salt  and  Smoke  Fish 

Cut  off  the  heads,  tails  and  fins,  but  do  not  scale  the  fish. 
Split  them  along  the  backbone,  and  scrape  them  clean  inside, 
but  do  not  use  water.  Pack  the  fish  solidly,  using  plenty  of  salt, 
in  a  good  clean  keg,  or  a  large  glass  jar,  put  a  clean  cloth  on 
top,  an  inverted  plate  and  a  weight,  and  set  away  in  a  cool 
place  for  3  or  4  days.  Then  remove  from  the  brine,  wipe  each 
piece  of  fish  clean,  and  pack  in  another  clean  keg  or  jar  with 
more  salt,  and  cover  and  weight  as  before.  The  fish  should 
always  be  well  under  brine. 

To  smoke  fish  first  clean  them  as  directed  above,  pack  them 
away  in  salt,  and  let  them  remain  there  about  48  hours,  after 
which  wipe  dry,  string  2  halves  on  a  cord,  so  that  they  can 
be  hung  over  a  stick,  and  smoke  in  barrel  or  box,  if  you 
have  no  smoke  house  (directions  how  to  make  a  barrel  or  box 
smoker  are  printed  in  the  department  of  recipes  for  butcher- 
ing time),  and  smoke  about  ?,  or  3  days. —  [Mrs.  C.  B.,  Minn. 

To  Remove  Skin  and  Bones  from  Fish 

To  remove  skin  cut  off  the  fins  along  the  back,  and  then  a 
strip  of  skin  less  than  ^^  inch  wide  down  the  full  length 
of  the  back.  Dip  the  fingers  in  salt,  then  loosen  skin  below 
the  head  and  draw  it  off  from  one  side  by  pulling  gently  with 
one  hand  and  pushing  with  the  back  of  a  silver  knife  held 
in  the  other  hand.  To  bone  a  fish  begin  at  the  tail  on  one 
side.  Slip  the  knife  in  between  the  skin  and  the  bone  and 
carefully  cleave  the  flesh  from  the  bone  its  entire  length. — 
[J.  H. 

General  Ways  of  Cooking  Fish 

Fish  may  be  boiled,  baked,  broiled,  or  fried.  Red-blooded 
fish,  as  salmon,  bluefish  and  mackerel,  in  which  the  fat  is 
distributed  throughout  the  fish,  is  better  boiled,  not  fried  in 
fat,  but  white-blooded  fish,  as  cod,  haddock,  and  halibut,  in 
which  the  fat  is  concentrated  in  the  liver,  may  be  fried  or 
baked.  Salmon,  which  contains  a  large  proportion  of  fat,  is 
best  cooked  in  boiling  water.  "When  the  white-blooded  varie- 
ties are  cooked  in  water  they  should  be  served  with  sauces, 
and  when  baked  they  should  be  basted  often  or  they  will  be 
dry  and  tasteless.     All  fish  should  be  thoroughly  cooked,  but 


THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK         13 

if  cooked  too  long  fish  loses  it  flavor.  When  boiling  fish  put  it 
on  In  warm  water,  and  add  1  teasp  salt  and  1  tablesp  vinegar 
or  lemon  juice  to  each  2  qts  water.  If  the  fish  were  put  on 
in  cold  water  the  juices  would  be  extracted,  and  putting  it  on 
in  boiling  water  causes  the  skin  to  contract  and  crack. 

Fish,  that,  when  dressed,  presents  a  flat  surface,  particularly 
those  varieties  in  which  oil  is  distributed  throughout  the 
flesh,  as  shad,  biuefish  and  mackerel,  are  very  nice  broiled 
over  a  clear  hot  fire,  but  not  too  hot,  or  they  will  become 
hard  and  indigestible.  Before  broiling  rub  well  with  butter 
or  oil.  Fish  may  be  baked  whole  or  in  large  thick  slices,  and 
white-blooded  fish  should  be  basted  frequently.  Shad,  halibut, 
salmon,  biuefish,  white  fish  and  bass  are  very  nice  when  baked. 
Baked  fish  is  nice  stuffed  with  any  preferred  dressing,  but 
not  too  full.  Cut  gashes  in  the  upper  side  of  the  fish  and 
insert  strips  of  salt  pork. 

Small  fish  are  most  suitable  for  frying.  After  cleaning, 
washing  and  drying,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  roll  in 
flour,  then  in-  beaten  egg,  and  then  in  bread  or  cracker 
crumbs.  See  that  every  part  of  the  fish  is  well  covered  with 
the  egg  and  crumbs  dressing,  which  forms  a  fat-proof  cover- 
ing. The  fat  should  be  smoking  hot  and  kept  hot  until  the 
fish  is  done.  After  removing  from  the  frying  pan  lay  the  fish 
on  several    layers  of  salted  paper,  to  absorb  the  fat. —  [J.  H. 

To  Freshen  Salted  Fish 

Cover  the  salted  fish  with  plenty  fresh,  cold  water,  and  put 
it  on  the  back  of  the  range  to  heat  very  gradually,  and  when 
the  water  is  hot,  pour  it  off,  put  on  fresh  cold  water,  and  let 
it  heat  gradually  once  more.  Then  pour  off  the  hot  water, 
remove  the  skin  and  bones  from  the  fish,  and  flake  it  with 
the  fingers  or  a  fork.  Salt  fish  should  never  be  boiled  hard— 
always  let  it  simmer  slowly. —  [Mrs.  H.  L.,  Va. 

Some  Codfish  Ways 

For  boiled  codfish  select  a  nice  thick  piece  of  salted  codfish 
and  freshen  it  according  to  directions  given  elsewhere.  Cover 
it  for  the  third  time  with  clear,  cold  water,  and  let  it  simmer 
slowly  3  or  4  hours,  according  to  the  size  and  thickness  of 
the  fish.  Serve  with  butter  gravy  and  baked  potatoes.  To 
make  codfish  balls  use  the  freshened  and  flaked  fish,  or  some 
left-over  pieces  of  boiled  fish,  and  mix  with  the  same  quan- 
tity of  potatoes — raw  potatoes  sliced  fine  if  the  fish  is  raw,  or 
mashed  potatoes  if  the  fish  is  boiled.  If  raw,  boil  until  tender, 
then  add  1  or  2  well-beaten  eggs,  a  little  piece  of  butter,  and 
a  very  little  cream  or  milk,  with  flour  enough  to  shape  into 
small  balls.  Fry  brown  on  both  sides  in  deep,  hot  fat.  A 
very  nice  pudding  can  be  made  in  the  same  way,  by  leaving 
out  the  flour  and  adding  a  little  more  eggs  and  milk. — [E.  P., 
Mass. 


14         THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK 


Broiled  Codfish 

Cut  one-inch  slices  from  the  thick  part  of  the  codfish,  ani 
soak  them  in  fresli  water  to  remove  the  extra  salt.  Boil  until 
half  done  and  then  broil  over  a  hot  fire.  Serve  with  small 
cubes  of  salt  pork  browned  to  a  crisp.  Potatoes  ''boiled  in 
their  jackets'*  are  nice  to  serve  with  this  fi^h  dinner. — [F.  !*> 
R..  Ct 

Codfish  JLoaf 

Flake  2  cups  cold,  boiled  codfish  very  fine.  Prepare  an 
equal  quantity  of  highly  seasoned  mashed  potatoes  and  mix 
well  together  while  both  are  hot.  Pry  1  tablesp  minced 
onion  in  2  tablesp  butter  until  it  yellows,  then  add  1  teasp 
mustard,  a  dash  of  cayenne  pepper,  and  1  tablesp  lemon  juice. 
Stir  well,  then  add  this  sauce  by  degrees  to  the  fish  and  potato 
mixture.  Pour  into  a  well  buttered  pudding  dish,  and  bake 
^A   hour.— [L.  J.  P.,  Ore. 

Codfish  VFith  Vegetables 

Flake  a  nice  piece  of  cod,  freshened  and  boiled,  put  a 
layer  in  a  buttered  pur? ding  dish,  then  a  layer  of  mashed  pota- 
toes, then  a  layer  of  mashed  parsnips,  another  layer  of  fish» 
and  so  on  until  all  the  fish  and  vegetables  have  been  used; 
cover  the  top  with  cracker  crumbs,  dot  with  butter,  pour  in 
a  little  hot  railk,  and  bake  until  the  top  is  brown.  Serve 
hot  with  egg  sauce.  This  is  a  nice  way  to  use  up  left-over 
fish,  potatoes  and  vegetables. — [Mrs.  E.  P.  P.,  Mass. 

Creamed  Codfish 

To  1  lb  codfish,  freshened  and  flaked,  add  1  tablesp  butter 
creamed  with  2  tablesp  flour,  1  pt  milk,  and  1  cup  boiling 
water.  Let  simmer  slowly  and  when  done  serve  with  mashed 
potatoes. — [Mrs.  H.  L.,  Va. 

Codfish  Fritters 

Boil  some  freshened  and  flaked  codfish  slowly  for  10  or  15 
minutes,  in  water  barely  enough  to  cover,  then  strain  dry  and 
cool.  Make  a  griddle  batter  of  milk,  eggs  and  flour,  with  a 
little  salt  and  baking  powder,  stir  in  the  drained,  flaked  cod- 
fish,  and  fry  the  fritters  brown  in  deep  hot  fat. — [E.  P.  P., 
Mass» 

Codfish  Soup 

To  1  pt  strained  tomatoes  add  1  cup  boiled  and  flaked  cod« 
fish,  1  qt  water,  and  a  lump  of  butter.  Boil  15  minutes,  then 
add  scant  i/^  teasp  soda,  and  while  it  is  foamy,  pour  in  1  pt 
scalded  milk.     Serve  at  once. — [A.  H.  B.,  Mich. 


THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK         15 


Salt  Mackerel 

Soak  fish  in  cold  water  24  hours,  then  drain,  cover  witti 
water,  add  1  tablesp  vinegar,  and  boil  until  tender.  Serve 
on  a  hot  platter  with  melted  butter  poured  over  it. — [Mrs.  M. 
R.,  N.  Y. 

Baked  Pickled  Mackerel 

Clean,  scrape  and  wash  small  mackerels  thoroughly.  Prepare 
a  mixture  of  1  pt  salt,  1  tablesp  each  ground  cloves  and  all- 
spice, 1  heaping  teasp  pepper  and  a  little  ground  celery  seed. 
Roll  mackerel  in  this  mixture  and  pack  in  an  earthen  pot. 
Pill  with  cider  vinegar,  and  bake  slowly  4  or  5  hours.  The 
above  pickling  mixture  is  enough  for  25  small  mackerels.  This 
is  an  especially  fine  dish  to  serve  in  cold  weather. — [A.  R.  W., 
Mass. 

Fried  Salt  Herring 

Wash  the  salt  herrings  in  clear,  cold  water,  in  which  a  little 
soda  has  been  dissolved,  scrape  off  the  scales,  open  and  clean, 
and  then  cut  clear  down  through  the  backbone.  Wash  the 
inside  well,  then  lay  the  halves,  cut  side  dov/n,  in  clear  water, 
deep  enough  to  cover,  and  let  them  remain  there  about  12 
hours,  after  which  wash  again,  dry  on  a  towel,  sprinkle  each 
piece  with  black  pepper  on  the  inside,  fold,  dip  in  cornmeal  or 
flour,  and  fry  over  a  hot  fire  in  plenty  hot  lard.  Nice  served 
with  com  pones  or  hoe  cakes. — [Mrs.  H.  L.,  Va. 

Pickled  Herring: 

Freshen  salted  herring  in  clear  cold  water  about  4  hours, 
changing  water  every  hour.  Cut  in  pieces  of  convenitmt  size 
and  put  in  a  jar  of  vinegar  with  a  few  slices  of  raw  onions  and 
some  whole  spices. — [Miss  M.  C,  N.  D. 

Baked  Pickled  Herring 

Put  a  layer  of  fresh  fish  in  a  small,  deep  baking  pan,  sprinkle 
with  salt,  pepper,  cinnamon,  cloves  and  flour,  dot  with  small 
bits  of  butter,  and  so  proceed  until  the  pan  is  full,  then  cover 
with  good  cider  vinegar  and  bake  about  3  hours.  Can  be 
sealed  in  air-tight  jars,  but  would  keep  quite  a  long  time  in 
a  cold  place,  even  without  sealing. — [Mrs.  J.  O.  W.,  N.  Y. 

Fresh  Herring  with  Onions 

Prepare  and  wash  the  fish,  remove  heads,  tails  and  fins, 
cut  eaeh  fish  in  halves  down  the  back,  remove  the  bones,  and 


J  6         THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK 


dry  on  a  clean  towel.  Cut  2  onions  fine  and  fry  them  about 
4  or  5  minutes  in  hot  drippings,  then  dip  each  piece  of  herring 
in  batter  and  fry  with  the  onions,  adding  more  hot  fat  if  nec- 
essary. Fry  about  8  or  10  minutes,  then  place  the  fish  in  the 
center  of  a  hot  platter,  arrange  the  onions  around  them,  and 
garnish  with  parsley. — [Mrs.  E.   P.   C,  Me. 

Directions  for  Baking  Fish  with  Dressing 

Clean,  scrape  and  thoroughly  wash  the  fish,  and  then  wipe 
dry  on  a  clean  towel.  Sprinkle  the  inside  of  the  fish  lightly 
with  salt,  and  fill  with  a  dressing  made  of  bread  or  cracker 
crumbs,  a  little  butter  or  cubes  of  salt  pork  fried  brown,  a 
little  minced  onion,  and  pepper,  salt  and  sage  to  taste.  The 
flavoring  is  always  a  matter  of  taste.  Skewer  the  fish  with 
wooden  toothpicks,  or  sew  up,  and  put  in  a  baking  pan  with 
1  or  2  cups  of  water,  sprinkle  the  fish  with  a  little  salt  and 
flour,  dot  with  bits  of  butter,  and  bake  slowly  until  done, 
basting  frequently.  Serve  hot.  If  the  fish  is  large  a  nice  way 
is  to  cut  several  deep  gashes  on  the  bias  across  the  top  of  the 
fish  and  insert  thin  stripes  of  salt  pork  or  bacon  in  these 
gashes.  It  is  sometimes  difficult  to  remove  a  baked  fish  from 
the  pan  without  breaking.  A  flat  piece  of  perforated  tin, 
put  in  the  pan  under  the  fish,  will  help  to  obviate  this  trouble. 
• — [A.  G.,  Mass. 

Shad 

To  bake  a  shad  follow  the  directions  for  baked  fish.  The  roe 
may  be  baked  in  the  same  pan  with  the  fish.  Baste  frequently. 
If  the  fish  is  large  it  is  well  to  rub  in  and  outside  with 
salt,  let  stand  a  while,  and  then  wash  in  clear  water. — [A.  G., 
Mass. 

Steamed  or  Baked  Halibut 

Clean  and  wash  thoroughly  and  dry  with  a  clean  towel. 
Butter  a  colander  or  any  perforated  dish,  put  the  fish  in  this 
and  place  the  colander  over  a  kettle  of  boiling  water.  Do  not 
let  the  fish  touch  the  water.  Cover  colander  closely  and 
steam  about  1  hour,  or  until  the  fish  is  done.  Turn  out  on  a 
hot  platter,  pour  melted  butter  over  it,  season  with  pepper 
and  salt,  and  garnish  with  slices  of  lemon.  Halibut  is  also 
nice  baked  with  half  water  and  half  milk,  filling  the  baking 
pan  about  I/2  inch,  dotting  the  top  with  butter,  and  basting 
often.  The  gravy  in  the  pan  may  be  thickened  with  a  little 
flour  and  served  with  the  fish.  Potatoes  and  lettuce  are  nice 
served  with  any  fish. — [Mrs.  E.  P.  C,  Me. 


THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK         17 

Baked  Fresh  Salmon 

When  I  lived  in  Oregon  a  friend  showed  me  how  to  bake 
fresh  salmon,  and  I  have  never  tasted  anything  more  delicious. 
Wash  and  clean  a  small  salmon  thoroughly,  in  and  outside, 
rub  with  butter,  salt,  and  pepper,  slice  1  onion,  and  put  some 
of  the  slices  in  the  fish  and  over  the  fish,  and  then  pour  1  pt 
can  of  tomatoes  over  all.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  and  baste 
frequently.  Turn  out  on  a  hot  platter  and  garnish  with 
parsley. —  [Mrs.  E.  G.,  Mich. 

Boiled  Fresh  Salmon 

Clean  the  fish  thoroughly  inside  and  out,  put  on  in  boiling 
water  to  cover,  and  add  salt  and  1  or  2  tablesp  vinegar,  accord- 
ing to  the  size  of  the  fish.  Serve  with  an  egg  or  cream  sauce. 
~[E.  L.,  Neb. 

Fried  Fresh  Salmon 

Cut  fish  into  slices  about  %  inch  thick,  dip  in  salted  beaten 
egg,  then  in  salted  cracker  or  bread  crumbs,  and  fry  a  light 
brown  on  both  sides  in  hot  fat. —  [E.  T.,  N.  Y. 

Scalloped  Salmon 

Drain  off  the  liquor  and  remove  the  skin  and  bones  from  1 
can  of  the  very  best  salmon.  Pick  the  fish  into  small  pieces, 
then  add  1  ciip  cream,  ^/^  cup  milk,  2  teasp  flour  rubbed  smooth 
with  1  tablesp  butter,  and  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Boil  until 
smooth,  then  fill  into  patty  pans,  sprinkle  the  top  with  crumbs, 
dot  with  bits  of  butter,  and  brown  in  a  hot  oven. —  [Mrs.  M. 
R.,  N.  Y. 

Pickled  Salmon 

For  4  salmons  weighing  about  3  lbs  each  allow  4  doz  onions 
and  4  ozs  each  whole  cloves  and  pepper,  and  cinnamon  bark. 
Clean  the  fish  thoroughly,  salt  slightly,  and  let  stand  over 
night.  In  the  morning  remove  the  skin,  cut  the  fish  up  in 
pieces  of  convenient  size,  put  them  in  boiling  hot  water,  a 
few  at  a  time,  and  let  cook  only  a  few  minutes.  Drain  and  put 
a  layer  of  the  fish  pieces  in  a  jar,  alternating  with  layers  of 
onions  and  spices,  until  the  jar  is  full.  Cover  with  good  cider 
vinegar,  cold,  and  put  on  an  inverted  plate  with  a  weight, 
cover  the  jar  with  paper  and  cloth,  and  set  away  in  a  cold 
place.  In  2  or  3  weeks  the  fish  will  be  pickled  sufficiently  for 
use. — [Mrs.  F.  M.,  Wash. 


18         THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK 


Salmon  Loaf  with  Gfeam  Sauce 

Remove  the  skin  and  bones  from  1  can  of  the  very  best 
salmon,  add  V2  of  the  liquor  with  the  fat  skimmed  off,  3  well- 
beaten  eggs,  scant  V2  cup  melted  butter,  1  cup  rolled  cracker 
or  bread  crumbs,  1  tablesp  lemon  juice,  2  tablesp  tomato  cat- 
sup, and  %  tablesp  finely  minced  onion.  Mix  thoroughly  and 
steam  1  hour  in  well  buttered  pans,  then  dry  off  in  the  oven 
about  15  minutes.  Serve  with  the  following  sauce:  Rub 
1  tablesp  butter  and  2  tablesp  flour  to  a  cream,  add  scant 
^2  teasp  salt,  a  dash  of  pepper,  and  1  pt  rich,  scalded  milk,  and 
cook  until  smooth.  Pour  the  sauce  over  and  around  the  sal 
mon  loaf,  and  serve  hot.  The  salmon  loaf  can  be  served  cold 
without  sauce,  garnished  with  hard-boiled  eggs,  slices  of 
lemon,  and  sprigs  of  fresh  parsley. — [Mrs.  F.  E.  A.,  Wash. 

Fish  Roe 

Wash  and  handle  carefully,  so  as  not  to  break  them,  dry 
on  a  clean  towel,  dip  in  beaten  salted  eggs,  roll  in  salted 
cracker  crumbs,  and  frj^  light  brown  on  both  sides  in  hot  drip- 
pings.    Serve  with  slices  of  lemon. — [M.  S.,  O. 

Pickled  Fish 

Prepare  and  clean  the  fish,  cut  in  slices,  sprinkle  with  salt, 
and  let  stand  over  night.  Next  morning  drain  off  the  liquid, 
put  the  fish  in  a  kettle,  add  a  few  whole  peppers  and  cloves,  a 
few  slices  of  onion,  and  bring  slowly  to  a  boil.  Let  simmer 
until  tender.  Can  be  served  hot  or  cold — we  prefer  it  cold. 
*— [Mrs.  H.  C.  O.,  Minn. 

Fish  Chowder 

Trim  and  cut  up  about  4  or  5  lbs  of  any  fresh  fish,  discard- 
ing bones  and  skin.  Put  the  bones  and  skin  on  in  a  separate 
vessel  in  a  little  water,  and  let  simmer  gently  10  minutes. 
Cut  up  %  lb  salt  pork,  and  fry  until  light  brown,  then  add  2 
onions  cut  in  thin  slices  and  cover  and  cook  5  minutes,  after 
which  add  2  tablesp  flour  and  cook  5  minutes  longer,  stirring 
frequently.  Over  this  strain  the  water  in  which  the  fish 
bones  were  cooked,  and  add  the  fish  and  1  qt  potatoes  cut  in 
slices.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  simmer  15  minutes, 
or  until  the  potatoes  and  fish  are  done,  after  which  add  1  pt 
milk.  Let  boil  up  once  more,  then  serve  hot  with  oyster 
crackers.  The  milk  may  be  omitted  and  1  pt  tomatoes  used 
instead.— [N.  P.,  N.  H. 


THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK         19 


About  Oysters  and  Clams 

Oysters,  which  are  comparatively  easy  of  digestion,  though 
not  very  nutritious,  are  in  season  from  September  to  May — 
that  is,  they  are  not  considered  good  during  May,  June,  July 
and  August — the  months  without  an  "r."  After  removing 
from  shell,  1  liquid  qt  contains  about  50  small  or  medium 
sized  oysters.  To  open  oysters  push  a  thin  flat  knife  under 
the  upper  valve  (the  lower  valve  is  deepest),  and  cut  the 
muscle  which  holds  the  shells  together.  This  muscle  and  the 
edges  of  the  oysters  are  tough  and  indigestible  and  should 
be  removed.  Drain  the  liquor  through  a  piece  of  cheesecloth 
wrung  out  of  clear  cold  water,  and  carefully  wash  the  oysters 
to  remove  grit  or  bits  of  shell.  The  harder  parts  of  clams 
when  cooked  are  quite  indigestible  and  if  not  discarded  ought 
to  be  chopped  very  fine. 

Better  do  without  oysters  or  clams  than  risk  buying  them 
canned.  Many  cases  of  poisoning  have  resulted  from  eating 
canned  oysters  or  clams  that  were  not  strictly  fresh.  It  is 
safest  to  buy  clams  or  oysters  in  the  shell,  and  open  them 
yourself,  or  have  them  opened  by  the  dealer.  When  the 
shells  open  themselves  the  clams  or  oysters  are  dead  and 
unfit  for  use.  Clams  and  oysters  should  always  be  washed 
thoroughly,  to  free  from  grit.  Long  boiling  toughens  oysters 
• — they  should  boil  only  about  1  minute,  or  until  the  edges 
curl.  Do  not  boil  them  in  milk,  but  add  the  milk  and  salt 
just  before  serving.  Oysters  should  be  served  immediately, 
as  long  standing  toughens  them. —  [A.  G.,  Mass. 

DcTiled  Oysters 

Drain  2  doz  oysters,  chop  fine,  and  mix  with  small  i/^  loaf 
bread  moistened  with  a  little  water.  Season  with  salt,  black 
pepper  and  a  pinch  of  cayenne  pepper,  1  tablesp  butter,  and  a 
little  finely  chopped  parsley.  Fill  cleaned  oyster  shells  witk 
this  mixture,  sprinkle  with  cracker  crumbs,  and  set  in  a  brisk 
oven  to  brown. — [Mrs.  G.  T.  D.,  La. 

Pickled  Oysters 

Wash  4  doz  large  oysters  and  wipe  dry;  strain  the  liquor 
and  add  to  it  1  teasp  pepper,  2  blades  of  mace,  1  level  tablesp 
salt,  and  6  or  7  tablesp  vinegar.  Simmer  the  oysters  in 
this  liquor  a  few  minutes,  then  skim  them  out  and  put  them 
in  a  small  jar.  Boil  the  pickle  a  few  minutes  longer,  skim, 
and  when  cold,  pour  it  over  the  oysters.  Have  the  jar 
overflowing  full,  and  seal  air  tight. —  [M.  P.,  N.  H. 


20         THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK 


Scalloped  Oysters 

Have  ready  a  buttered  baking  dish,  some  melted  butter  in  a 
saucer  and  some  fine  cracker  and  bread  crumbs  mixed.  Rinse 
and  drain  small  oysters,  lift  each  one  on  a  fork,  roll  first  in 
melted  butter,  and  then  in  crumbs,  and  put  in  the  baking  dish. 
Cover  the  bottom  of  the  dish  with  oysters  treated  this  way, 
sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper  and  a  very,  very  little  mace — be 
careful  not  to  use  too  much.  Fill  the  dish  in  this  way,  and 
then  pour  in  about  %  cup  strained  oyster  liquor  and  2  tablesp 
cream.  Cover  the  top  with  a  thin  layer  of  crumbs,  dot  with 
bits  of  butter,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  about  V2  hour. — [M.  P., 
N.   H. 

Baked  Oysters 

Wash  and  drain  1  qt  small  oysters.  Make  a  sauce  of  1  cup 
strained  oyster  liquor,  V2  cup  milk  and  %  cup  each  butter  and 
flour.  Season  with  1  level  teasp  salt,  a  few  dashes  of  pepper 
and  1  tablesp  grated  cheese.  Add  the  cheese  after  the  sauce 
has  cooked  5  minutes,  and  remove  from  the  fire  as  soon  as  the 
cheese  is  melted.  Parboil  the  oysters  in  a  little  of  their  own 
liquor  until  the  edges  curl,  then  put  them  in  the  sauce  pre- 
pared as  directed  above,  turn  all  into  a  buttered  baking  dish, 
cover  with  1  cup  fine  cracker  crumbs,  dot  liberally  with  butter, 
and  bake  until  the  crumbs  are  brown.  Parboil  the  oysters 
before  making  sauce,  as  the  extra  liquor  will  be  needed. — < 
[M.  P.,  N.  H. 

Fried  Oysters  or  Clams,  and  Fritters 

Wash,  drain  and  dry  oysters  between  clean  cloths.  Dip  in 
beaten  eggs,  then  in  bread  or  cracker  crumbs,  and  then  in  eggs 
and  cracker  crumbs  again,  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Fry  about  1  minute  in  deep,  smoking  hot  fat.  Drain  on  soft 
paper  to  absorb  the  grease,  and  serve  at  once.  To  make  frit- 
ters dip  the  oysters  in  a  batter  made  of  flour,  eggs  and  a  little 
of  the  oyster  liquor  and  salt.  The  oysters  should  be  gener- 
ously covered  with  the  batter.  Fry  quickly  in  deep,  hot  fat. 
Clams  may  be  prepared  the  same  way. —  [A.  G.,  Mass. 

Oyster  Stew 

To  1  cup  strained  oyster  liquor  add  y2  cup  water,  boil  and 
skim,  then  add  V2  teasp  salt,  i/4  teasp  pepper,  1  tablesp  butter 
and  1  tablesp  fine  cracker  crumbs.  When  it  boils  add  1  qt 
oysters  and  boil  1  minute.  Put  %  cup  cream  in  a  tureen,  pour 
the  boiling  oyster  stew  in  this,  and  serve  at  once.  Do  not  cooi 
the  oysters  in  milk,  as  that  toughens  them. —  [E.  K.,  Mass. 


THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK         21 


Oysters  with  Macaroni 

Break  %  lb  macaroni  (spaghetti)  into  1  inch  pieces,  and 
cook  in  boiling  salted  water  until  tender,  then  drain  in  a  col- 
ander. In  the  bottom  of  a  buttered  baking  dish  put  a  layer  of 
the  macaroni,  cover  with  oysters,  and  a  little  of  their  liquor, 
sprinkle  with  seasoning  and  bits  of  butter,  and  so  continue 
with  alternate  layers  of  macaroni  and  oysters  until  the  dish  is 
filled.  Pour  over  all  IVz  cups  milk  mixed  with  2  well-beaten 
eggs,  cover  the  top  with  bread  crumbs,  dot  liberally  with  pieces 
of  butter,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  until  nicely  browned. — 
[M.  F.  S.,  Mich. 

Oyster  Pie 

Mash  1  qt  boiled  potatoes,  add  1  pt  oysters  with  their  liquor, 
1  tablesp  butter  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Line  a  pie  tin 
with  pastry,  pour  in  the  potato  and  oyster  mixture,  cover  with 
pastry,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. — [Mrs.  H.  L.,  Va. 

Oyster  Omelet 

To  1  doz  small  oysters  add  3  or  4  well-beaten  eggs,  2  or  3 
tablesp  milk,  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  with  fine  bread 
crumbs  to  thicken.  Put  in  a  small  well  buttered  baking  dish, 
dot  with  butter,  bake  until  browned,  and  serve  at  once. — 
[M.  P.,  N.  H. 

Clam  Pie 

Cut  salt  pork  in  dice  and  fry  brown.  Slice  potatoes  and 
onions  and  boil  until  tender  in  milk  to  cover.  Into  a  buttered 
pudding  dish  put  a  layer  of  bread  or  cracker  crumbs,  then  a 
layer  of  oysters,  a  little  of  the  fried  salt  pork,  a  layer  of  the 
boiled  potatoes  and  onions,  sprinkle  with  pepper,  salt  and  a  lit- 
tle mace,  and  moisten  with  a  little  of  the  clam  liquor,  strained. 
Proceed  in  this  way  until  the  dish  is  full,  then  cover  with  a 
pie  or  biscuit  crust,  cut  a  few  slits  in  the  top,  and  bake  in  a 
rather  quick  oven. —  [A.  G.,  Mass. 

Clam  Soup 

Chop  2  doz  clams  very  fine,  and  drain.  Pare  and  chop  fine  3 
potatoes  and  put  them  on  to  boil  in  1  qt  milk,  in  a  double 
boiler.  Rub  V2  cup  butter  and  2  heaping  tablesp  flour  together 
until  smooth  and  creamy,  and  when  the  milk  and  potatoes 
have  been  boiling  15  minutes  stir  in  the  flour  and  butter  and 
cook  about  10  minutes  longer,  after  which  add  the  drained 
clams,  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  a  little  finely  chopped 
parsley.  Cook  1  minute,  and  serve  at  once.  This  is  a  very 
delicately  flavored  soup,  as  the  clam  liquor  is  not  used. — 
[N.  P.,  N.  H. 


22  THE   ORANGE  JUDD   COOK  BOOK 


Clam  Chowder 

Cut  fine  1  lb  salt  pork  and  fry  a  golden  brown,  then  add  3 
or  4  qts  water,  6  potatoes,  6  onions,  3  carrots,  i^  small  tur- 
nip and  %  small  head  cabbage,  all  chopped  fine.  Let  boil 
about  2  hours,  then  add  about  1  qt  tomatoes,  3  or  4  bay  leaves, 
some  celery  salt  or  fresh  celery,  chopped  fine,  a  little  parsley 
and  salt  to  taste.  Boil  until  all  the  ingredients  are  well  done, 
then  add  1  or  2  qts  clams,  chopped  fine,  and  a  little  of  the 
liquor  strained.  Boil  15  or  20  minutes,  and  just  before  serv- 
ing add  1  qt  hot  milk,  if  liked.  Serve  with  crisp  crackers. — 
[A.  G.,  Mass. 

Crabs  and  Ijobsters 

The  natural  color  of  a  live,  healthy  lobster  is  usually  a  dark, 
mottled,  bluish  green,  but  in  sandy  regions  sometimes 
slightly  reddish,  and  when  boiled  the  color  of  the  lobster 
changes  to  red.  Lobsters  are  most  plentiful  during  April  and 
May,  and  the  average  weight  is  from  2  to  5  lbs.  Lobsters 
should  always  be  bought  alive  (unless  they  are  bought  ready 
cooked),  and  cooked,  at  once,  by  plunging  as  quickly  as  possi- 
ble into  a  large  kettleful  of  boiling  and  bubbling  hot  water, 
head  first.  Add  about  1  tablesp  salt,  cover  the  kettle  closely, 
and  boil  briskly  1  minute,  and  then  simmer  gently  V2  hour. 
Hard  shell  crabs  are  treated  the  same  way.  To  dress  a  crab 
or  lobster  remove  the  shell  by  cutting  with  scissors,  leaving 
the  white  flesh  whole,  wherever  possible,  and  discarding  the 
intestinal  vein  and  stomach.  Lobster  or  crab  meat,  cut  fine,  is 
nice  mixed  with  an  equal  amount  of  cream  sauce.  Soft  shell 
crabs  are  usually  fried.  Dress  carefully,  dip  in  milk,  season 
with  salt  and  pepper,  roll  in  flour  or  bread  or  cracker  crumbs, 
and  fry  a  golden  brown  in  deep,  hot  fat. — [A.  G.,  Mass. 


Frozen  fish  should  be  thawed  out  in  cold  water,  and  then 
cooked  at  once. — [A.  G.,  Mass. 

Never  salt  oysters  until  just  before  removing  from  the  fire, 
or  they  will  shrivel  and  harden. —  [S.  E.  W.,  O. 

The  old  fish  rule  is,  "Always  fry  my  belly  brown  before  you 
turn  my  back  down."  This  a  good  rule,  as  the  fish  will  not 
break  in  pieces  if  fried  this  way. — [Mrs.  M.  R.,  N.  Y. 

It  is  best  to  fry  fish  in  pure  olive  oil,  fresh  lard  comes  next, 
and  butter  is  the  least  desirable.  Lemon  juice  or  slices 
of  lemon  are  generally  served  with  fish,  as  the  acid  corrects 
and  balances  the  strong,  fishy  taste. — [Mrs.  E.  J.  G.,  Mass. 


Meat,  Poultry  and  Game 

AINTY  cookery  can  convert  the  cheaper  cuts  of 
meat  and  fowl  that  is  anything  but  tender,  into 
wholesome,  appetizing  and  hearty  dishes.  If  the 
housewife  can  do  this,  she  has  learned  the  trick 
of  reducing  the  butcher's  bill  by  half,  without 
stinting  the  meat  supply.  Authorities  claim  that 
the  cheaper  cuts  of  beef  when  properly  prepared  are  by  far 
more  nutritious  than  the  fancy,  high-priced  cuts.  The  fol- 
lowing recipes  include  some  very  economical  meat,  poultry 
and  game  dishes,  that  sound  decidedly  **good,"  and  by 
following  the  special  directions  for  boiling  and  roasting,  it 
ought  not  to  be  so  difficult  to  get  satisfactory  results.  The 
various  recipes  will  also  be  found  to  be  valuable  aids  in 
providing  welcome  variety  for  the  dinner  table,  and  though 
game  is  a  rarity  in  most  homes,  yet  these  recipes  will 
doubtless  be  appreciated  too,  when  luck  favors  the  hunter. 

General  Directions  for  Boiling  and  Roasting  Meat 

If  meat  is  put  on  in  cold  water  and  salted  at  once  the  juices 
will  be  extracted,  and  therefore  this  method  should  be  used 
only  for  soups  or  broths.  Putting  it  on  in  boiling  water  will 
close  the  pores  and  form  a  coating  which  will  help  to  retain 
the  juices.  Salt  also  helps  to  extract  juices  and  therefore 
should  not  be  added  until  the  meat  is  almost  done.  Meat  for 
roasting  should  be  wiped  dry  and  put  in  a  hot  pan  with  very 
hot  fat,  in  a  very  hot  oven,  adding  salt  after  the  meat  is  half 
done.  Pot  roasts  should  likewise  be  put  dry  into  very  hot  fat 
and  browned  on  all  sides  before  water  is  added.  When  roast- 
ing meat  the  heat  of  the  oven  can  be  slightly  decreased  after 
the  first  half  hour.  Pot  roast  should  simmer  slowly  after  the 
first  half  hour,  as  quick  cooking  toughens  it. — [A.  G.,  Mass. 

Boiled  Beef  with  Dressing 

Put  a  piece  of  nicely  trimmed  beef  in  a  kettle,  and  any  pre- 
ferred dressing,  sewed  up  in  a  cheese  cloth  bag.  Add  boiling 
water  to  cover,  and  boil  until  the  meat  is  done.  Thicken 
some  of  the  stock  with  a  little  flour,  and  serve  as  gravy.     The 


24        THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK 

remainder  of  the  stock  can  be  used  as  a  foundation  for  soup. 

If  the  meat  is  not  fat  enough  add  some  butter  to  the  dressing, 
and  if  the  meat  will  require  very  long  boiling,  do  not  add  the 
bag  of  dressing  until  the  meat  is  half  done,  when  salt  may 
also  be  added.  Onion  added  to  the  dressing  or  the  liquor 
improves  the  flavor. —  [Mrs.  E.  P.  C,  Me. 

Steamed  Beef 

Trim  a  nice  piece  of  beef,  cut  deep  gashes  into  it,  and  insert 
strips  of  salt  pork,  tie  with  twine  to  keep  in  shape,  then  put 
in  a  lard  pail,  add  1  chopped  onion  and  a  little  sage,  if  liked, 
but  no  water.  Cover  the  pail  tightly,  and  put  it  in  an  iron  pot 
filled  with  boiling  water,  and  boil  steadily  about  3  hours. 
Then  open  the  pail,  season  the  meat  with  salt  and  pepper, 
and  fill  nearly  full  with  sliced  raw  potatoes.  Cover  the  pail 
again  and  steam  3  hours  longer.  If  inconvenient  to  use  the  top 
of  the  stove,  the  steaming  can  be  done  in  the  oven  just  as  well, 
where  it  will  only  require  5  hours  in  all. — [Mrs.  E.  P.  C,  Me. 

To  Cook  Corned  Beef 

Wash  the  meat,  and  if  very  salty,  soak  it  in  cold  water 
6ver  night,  then  put  it  into  a  pot  with  cold  water  to  cover, 
set  over  a  brisk  fire,  let  it  come  to  a  boil,  remove  the  scum, 
and  let  simmer  slowly  3  or  4  hours,  according  to  size.  If  the 
water  boils  away  add  more  boiling  water.  Cabbage  or  turnips 
and  potatoes  may  be  boiled  with  the  meat  during  the  last 
hour.  If  the  meat  is  to  be  served  cold  allow  it  to  cool  in  the 
liquor. — [Mrs.  E.  D.,  Ida. 

Pressed  Beef 

Cook  a  cheap  piece  of  beef  very  slowly  until  very  tender, 
then  let  the  liquor  boil  away  to  a  small  amount;  chop  or  grind 
the  meat  very  fine,  season  well  with  salt,  pepper,  and  a  little 
sage  and  summer  savory,  moisten  with  the  liquor  in  which 
the  meat  was  cooked,  pack  very  solidly  in  jars,  and  set  away 
to  chill.     Serve  cut  in  thin  slices. — [Mrs.  G.  W.  S.,  Kan. 

Braised  Beef 

Cut  2  lbs  round  steak  in  dice  1  inch  square.  Put  2  gener- 
ous slices  of  salt  pork  in  a  kettle  and  fry  brown;  then  remove 
the  scraps,  and  add  to  the  hot  fat  1  large  onion,  sliced,  and 
fry  until  brown,  after  which  add  the  meat  dredged  with  flour, 
the  brown  pork  scraps,  and  enough  water  to  partly  cover,  and 
simmer  slowly  3  hours.  During  the  last  hour  season  with  salt 
and  pepper,  and  when  done  thicken  the  gravy  with  a  little 
flour. — [Mrs.  E.  P.  C,  Me. 


00 
(N 
<D 

bo 


THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK  25 


Roast  Beef 

Take  a  piece  of  rib  or  loin,  trim  and  wipe  clean  with  a  dry 
towel,  put  in  a  hot  dripping  pan  with  a  little  hot  butter  or 
suet,  and  set  in  a  very  hot  oven.  Remember  that  the  oven 
must  be  very  hot  when  the  roast  is  first  put  in.  Baste  fre- 
quently and  when  partly  done  and  nicely  browned,  season  with 
salt  and  pepper  and  dredge  with  flour.  Do  not  salt  the  raw 
meat,  as  that  would  draw  out  the  juices  and  make  it  tough. 
A  roast  of  about  8  lbs  will  require  about  2  hours  roasting. 
Less  would  leave  the  inside  too  rare  and  longer  roasting 
would  dry  it  out.  When  done  remove  the  roast  to  a  hot 
platter,  skim  the  fat  from  the  gravy  in  the  pan,  add  about 
1  tablesp  flour,  stir  well  over  the  fire,  and  when  browned  pour 
in  about  1  cup  water.  Boil  up  once  and  pour  in  a  hot  gravy 
boat.— [Mrs.  L.  J.  P.,  Ore. 


A  Quick  Way  to  Roast  Beef 

Plunge  the  beef  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water  and  boil  briskly 
until  almost  done.  Add  salt  to  taste  during  the  last  half 
hour.  Put  some  butter  or  drippings  in  a  pan  on  top  of  the 
stove,  lift  the  meat  from  the  broth,  drain,  and  then  put  it  in 
the  pan  of  hot  drippings  and  brown  quickly  on  both  sides. 
When  nicely  browned  all  over,  remove  the  meat  to  a  hot 
platter,  add  a  little  flour  to  the  gravy  in  the  pan,  and  when 
brown  stir  in  some  of  the  broth  in  which  the  meat  was  cooked. 
When  boiling  beef  do  not  use  any  more  water  than  is  necessary. 
A  nice  roast  can  be  prepared  in  this  way  in  half  the  time  it 
would  take  to  roast  it  in  the  oven  in  the  usual  way. — [Mrs. 
E.  M.  C,  111. 

Pot  Roast   (Beef  or  Pork) 

Top  or  bottom  round,  or  a  piece  of  the  chuck  is  nice  for  a 
pot  roast  of  beef.  The  pot  should  be  no  larger  than  necessary 
to  accommodate  the  meat,  and  an  iron  pot  is  best.  Put  some 
drippings  in  the  pot,  and  let  get  very  hot.  Trim  the  meat, 
wipe  it  clean  with  a  dry  towel,  and  then  put  in  the  sizzling 
hot  drippings,  and  turn  until  browned  all  over.  Meanwhile 
fry  some  onions  brown  in  a  little  drippings  in  a  separate  pan, 
and  when  the  meat  in  the  pot  is  well  browned,  add  the 
browned  onions,  %  or  1  cup  boiling  water,  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste,  and  2  or  3  bay  leaves.  Cover  the  pot  closely  so  that 
no  steam  can  escape,  and  let  it  simmer  on  top  of  the  stove 
until  the  roast  is  nice  and  tender,  turning  often  and  watch- 
ing carefully,  so  it  does  not  burn.  If  the  water  seems  to  boil 
away  too  rapidly,  add  a  very  little  more  boiling  water,  when- 
ever necessary.     When  the  meat  is  done,  put  on  a  hot  platter. 


26  THE  ORANGE  JUDD   COOK  BOOK 

add  a  little  flour  to  the  gravy,  and  when  this  has  browned 
nicely  pour  in  a  little  cold  water,  boil  up  once,  and  then  pour 
the  gravy  into  a  gravy  boat.  If  a  slightly  sour  taste  is  liked, 
1  or  2  tablesp  vinegar  may  be  added  to  the  meat  while  roast- 
ing.—  [A.  G.,  Mass. 

Sour  Pot  Roast  of  Beef 

Put  a  piece  of  nicely  trimmed  beef  in  a  deep  dish,  pour 
over  it  1  cup  vinegar,  and  set  away  in  a  cold  place  3  days, 
turning  and  basting  the  meat  with  the  vinegar  frequently 
every  day.  After  3  days  remove  the  meat  from  the  vinegar, 
wipe  with  a  dry  towel,  cut  gashes  in  the  meat  and  insert 
strips  of  fat  bacon  rolled  in  a  mixture  of  salt,  pepper  and 
ground  cloves.  Put  some  butter  or  drippings  in  an  iron  pot, 
and  when  hot  put  in  the  beef,  dredged  with  flour,  and  brown 
nicely  on  all  sides;  then  add  about  2  cups  boiling  water,  2  car- 
rots and  2  onions  cut  in  pieces,  1  teasp  whole  pepper,  1  blade 
of  mace,  a  small  piece  of  lemon  peel,  and  salt  to  taste.  Cover 
closely  and  let  simmer  gently  until  the  meat  is  tender,  then 
take  out  the  meat  and  vegetables,  strain  the  gravy,  return  to 
the  fire  and  thicken  with  a  little  flour.  Put  the  meat  on  a 
platter,  pour  over  1  or  2  tablesp  of  the  gravy,  and  garnish 
with  the  onions  and  carrots.  Serve  remainder  of  gravy  in  a 
boat.— [S.  E.  W.,   O. 

To  Fry  or  Broil  Steak 

Beefsteak  should  be  cut  thick.  If  you  have  any  well- 
founded  suspicion  that  it  is  not  tender,  lay  it  out  on  a  clean 
table,  and  pound  it  hard  on  both  sides  with  the  side  of  a 
wooden  potato  masher.  Have  the  frying  pan  very  hot,  put  in 
some  drippings,  or  butter,  and  when  this  is  hot,  put  in  the 
steak,  and  keep  on  moving  it  around,  but  do  not  prick  with  a 
fork,  as  this  would  cause  the  juices  to  run  out.  When  brown 
on  one  side  turn  and  brown  on  the  other.  The  fire  must  be 
hot,  for  if  steak  is  not  fried  quickly  it  will  be  tough.  Put 
on  a  hot  platter,  add  a  very  little  hot  w^ater  to  the  gravy 
in  the  pan,  pour  over  the  steak,  season  with  salt  and  pepper^ 
and  serve  at  once.  To  broil  steak  have  a  nice  clear  fire  of  red 
coals,  and  turn  steak  often  until  a  nice  brown  on  both  sides. 
Put  on  a  hot  platter  with  butter  and  season  with  salt  and 
pepper.  Never  add  salt  to  steak  while  frying  or  broiling. — ' 
[A.  G.,  Mass. 

Hamburg  Steak  (Beef  or  Pork) 

Use  clear  beef,  beef  and  pork  mixed,  or  clear  pork,  allow- 
ing 14  part  fat  to  %  part  lean.  Chop  or  grind,  sfieason  with 
a  little  chopped  onion,  or  onion  juice,  add  pepper  and  salt 
to  taste,  shape  into  small,  flat  cakes,  and  fry  brown  on  both 
sides  in  hot  butter  or  drippings. — [M.  A.  M.,  Ind. 


THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK         27 


Beefsteak  Roll 

ake  round  steak  cut  about  %  incli  thick,  trim  off  the 
fat,  spread  thickly  with  a  nice  dressing,  adding  some  finely 
minced  onion  if  liked,  roll  up,  and  tie  securely  with  a  string, 
or  fasten  with  skewers.  Put  in  a  hot  dripping  pan  with 
hot  drippings,  on  top  of  the  stove,  and  turn  jthe  roll  until 
well  browned  on  all  sides,  then  pour  in  about  1  pt  boiling 
water  and  1  tablesp  vinegar,  season  well  with  salt  and  pepper, 
cover  closely,  and  let  simmer  on  back  of  stove  about  3  hours, 
by  which  time  it  will  be  nice  and  brown  and  tender.  Thicken 
the  gravy  with  a  little  flour,  and  serve  with  the  meat.  Nice 
sliced  when  cold.  Can  be  roasted  in  the  oven,  if  preferred. — 
[N.  S.  C,  Cftl. 

Dried  Beef  with  Milk 

Put  butter  the  size  of  an  egg  into  a  skillet  and  let  brown, 
then  add  dry  beef,  sliced  and  pulled  into  small  pieces,  let 
fry  a  few  minutes,  then  add  1  cup  water,  let  boil  a  few 
minutes,  then  add  1  qt  milk,  and  when  this  comes  to  a 
"boil  stir  in  3  tablesp  flour  mixed  to  a  smooth  paste  with  a 
little  milk.  This  is  a  very  nice  breakfast  dish  in  winter 
time. — [Mrs.  W.  W.  P.,  Okla. 

Hungarian  Goulash 

Put  butter  size  of  an  egg  in  a  deep  spider,  add  2  slices 
fat  bacon«  3  or  4  slices  onion,  a  little  pepper,  and  when 
smoking  hot  add  steak  cut  in  small  pieces.  Pry  until  nicely 
brown,  then  add  water  enough  to  cover,  and  1  tablesp  lemon 
juice.  Cover  closely  and  let  simmer  until  tender.  Thicken 
the  gravy  with  a  little  flour.  If  wished,  potatoes  and 
tomatoes  cut  in  small  pieces  may  be  added  the  last  half 
hour.  Goulash  should  be  quite  hot  with  pepper. — £S.  E.  W.,  O. 

Stewed  Liver 

Parboil  the  liver  in  salted  water  and  when  tender  cut 
into  small  squares.  Thicken  1  qt  milk  with  2  tablesp  flour, 
add  butter  size  of  an  egg,  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  then 
put  in  the  pieces  of  liver,  let  boil  up  once  more,  and  serve 
on  hot  buttered  toast. — [E.   P.,  Mass. 

Fried  Liver    (Sour) 

Fry  liver  and  bacon  until  nicely  brown,  then  put  on  a 
warm  platter  and  fry  some  onions  in  the  remaining  fat,  and 
when  brown  add  %  cup  vinegar,  %  cup  water,  and  salt 
and  pepper  to  taste.  Let  come  to  a  boil,  then  thicken  with 
a  little  flour,  let  boil  a  few  minutes,  pour  over  the  liver  and 
"bacon,  and  serve.  Heart  may  be  sliced  and  prepared  in  the 
same  way. — [Mrs.  L.  D.,  Col. 


28  THE   ORANGE  JUDD   COOK  BOOK 


liiver    Loaf 

Boil  1  lb  liver  until  tender,  chop  fine;  mix  with  2  well- 
beaten  eggs,  add  4  boiled  and  chopped  potatoes,  a  small  piece 
of  chopped  salt  pork,  fried  half  done,  butter  the  size  of  a 
walnut,  and  salt,  pepper  and  sage  to  taste.  Form  into  a 
loaf,  sprinkle  with  bread  crumbs,  and  bake.  Can  also  be 
shaped  into  small  cakes  and  fried. — [Mrs.   J.  A.  W„   Mo. 

Fried   Tripe 

Cut  the  tripe  in  pieces,  dredge  with  flour,  roll  in  salted, 
beaten  egg,  then  dredge  with  flour  again,  and  fry  in  hot 
drippings,  rough  side  down,  and  when  brown  turn  and  brown 
the  other  side.  Another  way  is  to  put  the  tripe  in  a  dish 
in  the  oven  for  10  or  15  minutes,  then  dry  in  a  cloth,  dip 
in  flour  or  cornmeal,  and  fry  quickly  in  hot  drippings. — [P. 
M.  W.>  N.  H. 

Stewed  Haslet 

Clean  and  trim,  and  boil  the  haslet  V2  hour  in  salted  water, 
skimming  often.  When  done,  drain  and  cut  in  small  pieces, 
add  more  than  enough  water  to  cover,  with  1  or  2  tablesp 
butter  and  some  sliced  onions  and  potatoes,  also  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste.  When  done,  thicken  the  gravy  with  a  little 
Sour. — [Mrs,  H-  L.,  Va. 

Baked  Heart 

Use  either  beef  or  pork  heart.  Clean  thoroughly,  cut  out 
all  the  clots  of  blood  and  stringy  parts,  soak  in  salt  water  2 
or  3  hours,  then  drain  and  put  in  a  kettle  with  plenty  of 
water,  a  piece  of  suet  the  size  of  an  egg,  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste,  and  let  boil  until  tender.  Make  a  dressing  moistened 
with  the  water  in  which  the  heart  was  boiled,  and  fill  the 
opening  of  the  heart,  then  put  in  a  deep  pan,  and  if  any  of 
the  dressing  is  left  over,  place  it  around  the  heart,  and 
bake  until  brown,  turning  and  basting  often,  using  the 
water  in  which  the  heart  was  boiled. — [Mrs.  J.  H.  S.  Mich. 

Deviled  Heart 

Cook  veal  heart  until  tender,  chop  or  grind  fine,  mix  with 
'%  the  quantity  of  bread  crumbs,  season  with  salt,  red 
pepper,  sage,  and  a  little  grated  nutmeg,  put  a  layer  in 
a  buttered  baking  dish,  moisten  with  the  liquor  the  heart 
was  boiled  in,  sprinkle  with  bread  crumbs,  dot  with  butter, 
and  bake  about  V2  hour. — [L.  E.  M.,  Mich. 


THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK         29 


Meat  Loaf    (Beef,   Pork,    or   Veal) 

Grind  or  chop  3  lbs  round  steak  and  ^A  lb  beef  suet,  add 
1  tablesp  salt,  1  teasp  pepper,  2  or  3  well-beaten  eggs,  a 
very  small  chopped  onion,  8  tablesp  fine  bread  or  cracker 
crumbs,  and  1  cup  milk.  Mix  thoroughly,  shape  into  two  loaves, 
roll  in  bread  crumbs,  dot  with  bits  of  butter,  and  bake  1 
hour,  basting  often.  This  recipe  may  be  varied  by  combining 
%  beef  with  ^,4  pork,  omitting  the  suet,  and  using  less 
eggs  when  the  pork  is  used.  Veal  loaf  is  also  nice,  with 
1/4  part  pork,  which  may  be  either  fresh  or  salt.  If  the 
onion  taste  is  not  liked  omit  these,  and  flavor  with  a  very 
little  nutmeg  and  cloves.  Instead  of  milk,  water  can  be 
used,  and  instead  of  shaping  into  large  loaves,  make  into 
small  rolls  or  balls  and  either  bake  or  fry  them.  The  gravy 
in  the  pan  should  be  thickened  with  a  little  flour  and  served 
with  the  meat. — [Mrs.  L.  P.,  Ore. 

Mutton  with  Cabbage  and  Potatoes 

Cut  mutton  in  small  pieces  and  put  on  with  cold  water 
enough  to  cover,  add  1  small  head  crisp,  tender  cabbage,  cut 
in  small  pieces,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Half  hour  before 
serving  add  potatoes.  Boil  until  all  is  tender,  strain  and 
thicken  the  gravy  with  a  little  flour. — [Mrs.  E.  O.  B.,  Minn. 

Stewed  Mutton  and  Com 

Wash  and  cut  mutton  in  small  pieces  and  put  in  a  stew 
pan  with  1  or  2  chopped  onions,  and  water  to  cover.  When 
the  liquid  has  boiled  down  about  one-half,  add  1  qt  hulled 
com  and  1  pt  strained  tomatoes,  with  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste,  and  stew  about  %  hour  longer. — [C.  J.  M.,  Neb, 

Roast  FiUet  of  Veal 

Remove  the  bones  and  fill  in  with  a  dressing  seasoned  witK 
salt  and  pepper,  parsley  and  thyme.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven, 
allowing  20  minutes  for  every  lb  veal.  Baste  with  drip- 
ings — any  fat  except  salt  pork.  When  done  thicken  the 
gravy  with  a  little  flouro — [S.  B.,  N.  Yo 

Veal  with   Pork 

Put  slices  of  fat  salt  pork  in  a  frying  pan  with  just 
water  enough  to  cover  and  let  come  to  a  boil,  then  drain 
the  water  from  the  pork,  return  it  to  the  fire,  put  slices  of 
veal  on  top  of  the  pork,  dust  with  salt  and  pepper,  and 
fry  slowly,  turning  often  until  both  are  nicely  browned.  The 
flavor  of  both  meats  is  improved  by  this  combination  and 
method  of  cooking. — [Mrs.  A.  B.  W.,  N.  Y. 


30  THE   ORANGE  JUDD   COOK  BOOK 


JeUied  Veal 

Boil  a  lean  piece  of  veal  in  water  enough  to  cover,  until 
the  bones  separate  from  the  meat.  Cut  the  meat  in  small 
pieces,  boil  the  liquor  down  to  about  1  pt,  add  to  it  %  box 
dear  gelatine,  soaked  about  10  minutes  in  a  little  cold  water, 
%  teasp  celery  salt,  %  teasp  cayenne  pepper,  1  level  teasp 
mustard,  and  the  juice  of  1  lemon.  Let  boil  up  a  minute, 
then  strain  over  the  meat,  put  in  a  mold,  and  let  stand  over 
night  to  get  cold.  Slices  of  hard-boiled  eggs  can  be  put  in 
with  the  meat.  When  hard,  turn  out  and  serve  cut  in  slices. — 
[Mrs.  A.   B.  W.,  N.  Y. 

Roast   Loin   of   Pork 

Separate  each  joint  of  the  loin,  make  an  incision  in  the 
thick  part  of  the  pork,  and  fill  with  a  dressing  mixed  with 
some  chopped  suet  and  seasoned  with  onions  and  spices  to 
taste.  Bring  the  edges  of  the  meat  together  and  sew  them 
up,  then  wrap  the  meat  in  a  well  greased  sheet  of  white 
paper,  tie  up  with  twine,  put  in  a  dripping  pan,  place  in  a 
hot  oven,  and  baste  often  with  the  grease  which  will  melt 
from  the  roast.  Bake  about  20  minutes  for  eacl  pound  of 
pork. — [Mrs.  R.  F.  K.,  la. 

Pried  Pork  Tenderloin 

Cut  the  tenderloin  in  1-inch  slices,  pound  with  a  potato 
masher,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  roll  in  beaten  egg, 
then  in  cracker  crumbs,  and  fry  a  nice  brown  in  plenty  hot 
drippings,  or  butter.  Tenderloin  is  too  dry  for  boiling,  and 
if  roasted  should  be  basted  frequently. — [Mrs.  M.  M.  B.,  Mo. 

Mock    Birds    (Pork) 

Spread  any  preferred  dressing  on  thin  slices  of  lean,  boiled 
salt  pork,  fasten  the  ends  together  firmly  with  wooden  tooth- 
picks, brown  these  rolls  in;  a  pan,  and  then  remove  to  a 
platter.  Add  to  the  fat  in  the  pan  some  finely  minced  onion 
and  a  little  flour,  and  when  brown  add  some  water  and  pepper 
to  taste,  and  return  the  stuffed  rolls  to  this  gravy,  and  let 
stew   about    2    hours. — [Mrs.    C.    J.    M..    Neb. 

Fried   Salt  Poi* 

Cut  salt  pork  in  slices  and  let  soak  over  night  in  butter* 
milk  or  sour  milk.  Next  morning  drain  off,  roll  in  corn  meal, 
and  fry  brown  on  both  sides,  in  hot  drippings. — [Mrs.  E.  G. 
S..  N,  Y. 


THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK         31 


Salt  Pork  with  Vegetables 

Soak  a  piece  of  salt  pork  in  water  over  nigM.  In  the  morn- 
ing put  on  with  clear  cold  water,  and  add  some  carrots, 
turnips,  rutabagas,  and  potatoes,  cut  in  pieces,  also  a  few 
pieces  of  celery  stalks  or  root.  Let  boil  until  the  water 
has  reduced  and  the  meat  and  vegetables  are  done.  Instead 
of  salt  pork  a  piece  of  bacon  or  a  ham  bone  may  be  used. — « 
[Mrs.    E.    O.    B.,    Minn. 

Salt    Pork   with   Dried   Apples 

"Wash  a  piece  of  nice  salt  pork,  and  put  in  a  kettle  with 
cold  water  enough  to  cover,  then  add  some  washed,  dried 
apples,  cover  closely,  and  cook  slowly  until  done.  After  you 
have  tasted  this  once  you  will  surely  call  for  more. — [E.  K. 
D.,  N.  Y. 

Mexican    Chili    Pork 

Cut  1  lb  bacon  in  small  dice  and  fry  brown,  then  add  9 
onions,  cut  fine,  and  fry  with  the  bacon  until  done,  but  not 
brown,  then  add  1  qt  each  tomatoes  and  baked  beans,  salt 
to  taste,  and  plenty  of  pepper.  This  is  very  good  and  improves 
with  each  warming  up. —  [Mrs.  H.  G.,  Neb. 

Baked  Ham 

Wash  and  scrape  the  ham  and  trim.  Make  a  dough  of 
flour  and  water  and  %  cup  syrup,  roll  out  %  inch  thick,  and 
cover  the  ham  with  this,  being  careful  to  cover  all  parts. 
Put  in  a  hot  oven  to  brown,  then  decrease  the  heat,  and 
hake  slowly  till  done,  basting  often.  It  will  take  from  4 
to  6  hours,  according  to  the  size  of  the  ham.  When  done 
remove  the  crust.  This  is  a  much  better  way  than  boiling. — ' 
[Mrs.   S.   B.,   Tex. 

Boiled  Ham 

Soak  smoked  ham  over  night  in  cold  water  and  the  next 
morning  scrape  it  until  you  are  sure  it  is  thoroughly  clean, 
trimming  off  any  blackened  parts.  Put  in  a  kettle  of  boiling 
water,  cover  closely,  and  boil  gently  until  done.  It  will  take 
from  4  to  6  hours,  according  to  the  size  of  the  ham.  When 
done  remove  from  the  water,  pull  off  the  rind,  score  the  fat 
side  criss-cross,  insert  a  whole  clove  into  each  square,  place  fn 
a  baking  pan  in  a  very  hot  oven,  and  leave  there  until  the  fat 
Ib  nice  and  brown. — [A.  G.,  Mass. 


32         THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK 


To  Fi-y  Ham 

Cut  ham  in  slices  ^  inch  thick,  pour  hoiling  water  over 
them,  let  them  stand  a  few  minutes,  then  drain,  roll  in  flour 
or  cornmeal  and  fry  slowly  in  hot  drippings  until  a  light 
hrown  on  both  sides. — [Mrs.  F.  H.,  Mo. 

Creamed  Shredded  Ham 

Thicken  1  cup  milk  with  2  teasp  flour,  add  butter  size 
of  egg,  2  well-beaten  eggs,  salt  to  taste,  let  boil  a  few  minutes, 
then  add  bits  of  finely  shredded  lean  ham.  Serve  with  baked 
potatoes,  or  pour  over  buttered  toast. —  [E.  P.,  Mass. 

Potted  Ham 

Allow  1  qt  lea]  ham  and  ^  pt  fat,  chop  or  grind  very  fine, 
add  1  teasp  ground  mace,  V^.  teasp  nutmeg  and  allspice,  and 
a  little  pepper.  Mix  thoroughly,  pound  to  a  paste,  pack  in 
small  jars,  cover  with  melted  lard,  and  store  in  a  cool  place. — 
[N.  S.  C,  Cal. 

A  Favorite  Dutch  Dish 

Boil  8  good  sized  ham  bone  in  about  1  gal  water  for  several 
hours.  Water  in  which  the  ham  was  boiled  (if  the  ham  was 
scraped  nice  and  clean)  can  be  used.  When  done,  take  out 
the  ham  bone,  and  when  the  water  is  cooled,  add  to  it  1  qt 
dried  apples,  and  let  them  soak  until  they  have  softened.  This 
should  be  done  the  evening  before  the  dish  is  wanted,  and 
the  same  evening  a  new  baking  of  bread  should  be  put 
to  rise.  Next  morning  put  the  pot  of  ham  bone  liquor  and 
soaked  apples  over  the  fire,  and  as  soon  as  it  boils,  break  off 
little  pieces  from  the  raised  bread  dough,  size  of  a  walnut,  drop 
into  the  boiling  liquor  and  boil  till  the  apples  and  bread 
dumplings  are  done.     Serve  hot. — [Mrs.  H.  L.,  Va. 

Sansage   Fritters 

To  V<z  pt  sour  milk  or  buttermilk,  add  %  teasp  soda,  Vz 
teasp  salt,  and  flour  enough  to  make  a  moderately  stiff 
batter.  Dip  squares  or  cakes  of  sausage  meat  in  this  batter, 
and  fry  brown  on  both  sides.  Another  way  is  to  mix  the 
sausage  meat  with  the  batter  and  drop  by  spoonsful  into  hot 
drippings. — [Mrs.  J.  W.  K.,  Tenn. 

Crust    for    Meat   Pie 

To  1  pt  sifted  flour  add  1  teasp  salt,  2  teasp  baking  powder, 
2  tablesp  butter  or  lard,  and  milk  enough  to  make  a  soft 
dough.  Cut  3  or  4  holes  in  the  top  crust,  and  insert  in  each 
a  small  buttered  paper  tube  or  cone,  to  permit  the  steam  to 
escape. — [Mrs.  M.  E.  R.,  Wis. 


THE   ORANGE   JUDD   COOK  BOOK  33 


Crust  for  Pot  Pie 

To  1  qt  flour  add  1  teasp  salt,  4  teasp  baking  powder,  and 
milk  enough  to  make  a  stiff  batter.  Drop  batter  by  spoonsful 
into  a  pan  of  flour,  roll  around  in  the  flour,  pat  into  shape 
with  the  hands,  and  when  the  meat  is  nearly  done,  drop  these 
bits  of  crust  into  the  kettle.  The  liquid  should  be  boiling 
briskly.  Cover  and  cook  i/^  hour.  The  covered  kettle  may 
be  transferred  from  the  stove  to  a  hot  oven,  as  soon  as  the 
crust  is  put  in  and  if  the  kettle  is  not  too  full,  it  will  not 
boil  over,  and  the  crust  will  not  be  heavy. — [Miss  G.  R.,  N.  Y. 

Meat  Pie 

Use  any  remnants  of  left-over  beef,  pork,  veal,  lamb  or  mut- 
ton and  left-over  potatoes  ot  equal  quantity,  or  take  small  pieces 
of  fresh  meat  and  raw  potatoes,  and  boil  them  together  until 
tender,  seasoning  with  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Let  the 
gravy  boil  down  some,  and  thicken  with  very  little  flour.  Line 
a  deep  pie  pan  with  a  short  biscuit  or  pie  crust,  rolled  out 
about  V4.  inch  thick,  put  in  the  meat  and  potatoes  with  the 
gravy,  cover  with  a  top  crust,  in  which  several  slits  were 
cut  to  allow  for  the  escape  of  steam,  pinch  the  edges  together, 
and  bake  until  a  nice  brown.  Do  not  put  too  much  gravy  in 
the  pie,  but  if  there  is  any  left  over,  serve  it  separately  with 
the  pie.  If  onions  are  liked,  boil  this  with  the  meat  and 
potatoes. — [Mrs.  J.  H.  S.,  Mich. 

Veal   Pot   Pie 

Cut  2  lbs  veal  in  small  pieces,  and  put  over  the  fire  with 
2  qts  cold  water.  Bring  to  a  quick  boil,  then  move  to  the 
back  of  the  range  and  simmer  slowly  until  tender,  adding  salt 
when  nearly  done.  Half  hour  before  serving  drop  some 
dumplings  into  the  boiling  broth,  cover  and  boil  20  minutes. 
Add  a  lump  of  butter  to  the  gravy  and  if  it  is  too  thin,  thicken 
It  with  a  little  flour. — [Mrs.  E.  P.  C,  Me. 

Salt  Pork  Pie 

Slice  %  lb  salt,  lean  pork,  freshen,  and  fry  brown.  Pare 
and  cut  into  thick  slices  2  qts  potatoes  and  1  qt  onions,  and 
put  in  the  kettle  with  the  fried  meat,  adding  2  qts  boiling 
water.  Let  this  boil  while  you  prepare  a  crust.  When  the 
potatoes  and  onions  are  partly  done,  thicken  with  2  tablesp 
flour,  and  pour  into  a  pudding  dish.  Cover  with  the  crust, 
and  bake  until  done, — [G.  C,  Wis. 


34         THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK 


Chicken  or  Meat  Pie 

Bits  of  left-over  meat  or  poultry  can  be  made  into  appe- 
tizing pies.  Cut  the  meat  in  small  pieces,  and  mix  witk 
gravy,  or,  if  you  have  no  gravy,  make  some  by  frying  onions 
brown  in  drippings,  and  thickening  with  flour,  adding  a  very 
little  water.  Put  the  meat  and  gravy  in  a  pudding  dish,  and 
cover  with  mashed  potatoes  an  inch  thick.  Moisten  the  top 
slightly  with  milk,  dot  with  bits  of  butter,  and  bake  until 
brown.     Serve  hot. — [Mrs.  S.  C.  P.,  Mass. 

Mock  Chicken   Pie 

Pare  and  slice  1  qt  potatoes  and  3  onions,  add  2  tablesp 
butter,  and  1  teasp  each  sage  and  salt.  Cook  until  tender 
in  plenty  water,  then  drain  and  put  the  liquid  in  a  basin  to 
keep  hot.  Put  the  potatoes  and  onions  in  a  well  buttered 
dish,  slice  6  hard-boiled  eggs  on  top,  moisten  with  a  little 
of  the  potato  liquid,  cover  with  a  rich  biscuit  dough,  and 
bake.  The  potato  water  may  be  thickened  with  a  little  flour, 
and  served  with  the  pie. — [Miss  E.  I.  B.,  Cal. 

Ham    Pie 

Boil  slice  of  lean,  cured  ham  or  shoulder  about  1  hour.  Line 
a  buttered  pan  with  biscuit  dough,  put  in  a  layer  of  the 
cooked  meat,  season  with  pepper,  scatter  a  few  dumplings 
of  the  dough  over  the  meat,  pour  over  some  of  the  water 
the  ham  was  boiled  in,  then  another  layer  of  meat  and  dump- 
lings with  some  more  of  the  meat  liquor,  and  then  break  in 
as  many  eggs  as  you  have  people  to  serve,  or  as  many  as 
you  can  spare.  Put  on  the  top  crust,  bake,  and  when  nearly 
done  pour  in  about  1  pt  sweet  milk,  and  finish  baking. — 
[Mrs.   H.  A.   B.,   Mont. 

Baked  Hash 

Take  pieces  of  left-over  cooked  or  roasted  meat  and  pota- 
toes, chop  coarsely,  and  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  onion 
juice.  Butter  a  pudding  dish,  cover  the  sides  and  bottom 
with  bread  crumbs,  put  in  the  meat  and  potatoes,  add  some 
left-ovei  gravy,  or  hot  butter  and  water,  cover  with  crumbs, 
dot  with  bits  of  butter,  and  bake  about  20  minutes.  If  no 
cold  boiled  potatoes  are  at  hand,  chop  some  raw  potatoes 
and  onions,  put  in  the  pan  with  a  little  water,  salt  and 
pepper,  cover,  and  simmer  until  done,  then  add  the  meat 
and  pour  into  the  pudding  dish. —  [A.  G.,  Mass. 

India  Cnrry  with  Rice 

Cut  onions  in  rings  and  fry  brown  in  butter;  when  brown 
take  out  the  onions,  and  fry  pieces  of  meat,  fish,  garne^  OE 


THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK         35 

poultry  in  the  same  fat,  adding  a  small  piece  of  garlic,  a 
little  coriander  seed,  and  1  heaping  teasp  curry  powder. 
Let  simmer  1  minute,  stirring  all  the  time,  then  add  a 
little  hot  water  and  let  simmer  1  hour  over  a  slow  fire. 
Adtiing  an  apple  cut  in  pieces  is  a  great  improvement.  Put 
1  cu:p  rice  over  the  fire  with  3  qts  water,  and  when  tender, 
drain  through  a  colander.  Pour  a  pt  cold  water  over  the  rice 
in  the  colander,  shake  well,  and  when  thoroughly  drained, 
serve  hot  with  the  curry.  The  water  that  the  rice  was 
boiled  in  makes  good  starch  for  clothes,  or  with  a  little 
lemon  juice  and  sugar  makes  a  good  drink  for  invalids. — 
[Capt.  A.  H.,  N.  J. 

To  Pick  and  Clean  Poultry 

For  market,  dry  picking  is  the  best  way — that  is,  pulling 
out  the  feathers  immediately  after  killing,  while  the  poultry 
is  still  warm,  but  for  home  consumption,  the  scalding  method 
is  the  quicker  and  easier.  After  killing  dip  in  scalding  hot 
water  and  move  about  for  a  few  minutes,  then  pick  as 
quickly  as  possible.  Ducks  should  be  scalded  a  little  longer 
and  then  wrapped  in  canvas  or  any  close  cloth,  to  steam 
about  5  to  10  minutes,  after  which  the  feathers  can  be 
easily  pulled.  The  hairs  should  be  singed  off  by  holding 
and  turning  the  poultry  in  the  flames  of  a  lighted  twist  ©f 
paper,  or  some  burning  alcohol.  Wash  thoroughly  and  dry, 
and  then  lay  on  several  folds  of  paper,  and  clean  at  once. 
The  quicker  poultry  is  cleaned,  the  better,  but  it  is  best  not 
to  cook  it  until  24  hours  after  killing. 

After  singeing,  and  before  drawing,  pull  out  all  pin  feathers, 
then  cut  off  the  head,  and  next  cut  through  the  skin  around 
each  leg,  about  l^^  inches  below  the  first  leg  joint,  being 
careful  not  to  cut  tendons.  Place  the  leg*  with  the  cut 
over  the  edge  of  a  table,  press  downward  to  snap  the  bone, 
then  take  the  foot  in  the  right  hand,  holding  the  bird  firmly 
in  the  left  hand,  and  pull  off  the  foot,  and  with  it  the 
tendons.  Make  a  lengthwise  cut  through  the  skin  just 
below  the  breast  bone,  large  enough  to  admit  the  hand, 
and  remove  the  entrails  entire,  by  first  carefully  loosening 
them  all  around,  and  then  bringing  the  hand  forward,  grasp- 
ing the  entrails  firmly,  and  with  one  pull  drawing  them  out. 
The  lungs  and  kidneys,  on  either  side  of  the  back-bone, 
should  next  be  removed,  and  then  the  wind-pipe  and  crop^ 
close  to  the  skin  of  the  breast,  by  inserting  two  fingers  under 
the  neck  skin.  Draw  down  the  skin  and  cut  the  neck  off 
close  to  the  body,  leaving  on  enough  skin  to  close  up  the 
opening  after  the  crop  is  partly  filled  with  a  little  dressing. 
The  giblets  (gizzard,  heart  and  liver)  should  next  be  care- 
fully separated  from  the  entrails,  being  careful  not  to  break 


36         THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK 


the  gall  bag  attached  to  the  liver,  the  bile  from  which  would 
impart  an  extremely  bitter  flavor  to  any  parts  it  came  in 
contact  with.  Then  wash  the  bird  thoroughly  in  and  out- 
side, rub  with  salt,  and  let  hang  in  a  cool  place  over  night. — ■ 
[A.  G.,  Mass. 

Steamed  Fowl 

Dress  a  5  or  6  lb  chicken,  wash  and  dry  thoroughly,  and 
rub  with  salt  and  pepper,  in  and  outside.  Place  an  onion 
and  a  bay  leaf  inside,  and  put  the  fowl  into  shape  the  same 
as  for  roasting.  Sprinkle  a  clean  towel  v/ith  flour,  wrap  it 
about  the  fowl,  pinning  closely,  and  then  place  it,  back 
down,  in  a  steamer,  and  steam  continuously  2  or  3  hours, 
according  to  its  age  and  size.  Serve  with  currant  or  cran- 
berry jelly. —  [Mrs.  E.  D.,  Ida. 

Fried  Chicken 

Dress  a  young  chicken,  cut  off  the  legs,  wings  and  neck, 
and  then  cut  down  the  back  bone,  and  press  the  body  open, 
breaking  the  breast  bone  by  pounding  lightly.  Boil  the  legs, 
wings,  and  giblets  in  water  enough  to  cover,  and  when 
tender  add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and  1  tablesp  flour  mixed 
with  1  tablesp  butter.  This  will  answer  as  a  dressing  for  the 
fried  chicken.  Dip  the  body  of  the  chicken  in  corn  meal 
and  fry  brown  in  hot  drippings. — [Mrs.  H.  L.,  Va. 

Pickled    Chicken 

This  is  a  nice  way  to  prepare  old  and  tough  chicken.  Clean 
and  joint  and  soak  in  cold  salted  water  several  hours,  then  put 
on  with  fresh  water  and  salt,  2  or  3  sliced  onions,  2  or  3 
bay  leaves,  %  doz  whole  allspice,  and  when  nearly  done 
add  enough  vinegar  to  make  it  quite  sour  to  taste.  Let  boil 
until  done,  then  pour  into  a  crock.  There  should  be  enough 
liquid  to  cover  the  fowl.  Let  stand  over  night.  When  cold 
the  liquid  will  be  jellied. —  [Mrs.   G.  A.,  Minn. 

Scalloped  Chicken 

Dress  and  joint  the  chicken,  sprinkle  with  pepper  and  salt 
and  place  in  a  pan  with  butter  size  of  an  egg,  and  milk  to  cover. 
Bake  until  tender.  If  the  milk  boils  away  add  more  milk, 
or  hot  water.  Thicken  the  milk  gravy  with  a  little  flour 
just  before  serving. — [C.  B.  O.,  Kan. 

Smothered  Chicken 

Dress  and  joint  a  young  chicken,  sprinkle  with  salt  and 
pepper,  roll  in  flour  or  corn  meal,  place  the  pieces  closely  in 


THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK 


a  bread  pan,  half  cover  with  cold  water  or  milk,  and  if  the 
chicken  is  not  very  fat  add  lumps  of  butter  or  some  thick 
slices  of  fat  bacon.  Bake  until  done.  When  one  side  is 
brown,  turn  to  brown  on  the  other  side,  and  when  nearly  done 
put  a  2-inch  square  of  biscuit  dough  on  top  of  each  piece  of 
chicken,  return  to  the  oven,  and  bake  until  a  nice  brown. 
When  done,  remove  the  chicken  with  crust  to  a  hot  platter, 
add  1  cup  rich  cream  to  the  liquor  in  the  pan,  thicken  with. 
a  little  flour,  let  boil  up,  and  serve  with  the  chicken. — » 
[Mrs.  M.  M.  B.,  Mont. 

Pressed  or  Potted  Chicken 

Dress  and  joint  a  chicken,  and  boil  in  water  enough  to 
cover,  until  the  meat  slips  from  the  bones.  Drain  off  the 
liquor,  remove  the  bones,  and  cut  the  meat  in  small  pieces, 
but  do  not  chop  fine,  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Boil 
the  broth  down  to  1  pt,  put  a  layer  of  meat  in  a  mold 
with  some  slices  of  hard-boiled  eggs,  then  more  chicken  and 
eggs,  seasoning  to  taste,  then  pour  in  the  broth,  and  set 
away  to  get  cold.  Another  way  instead  of  boiling  down 
the  broth,  is  to  thicken  it  with  bread  crumbs,  or  1  tablesp 
clear  gelatine  dissolved  in  a  little  hot  water. —  [K.  S.,  la. 

Chicken  Fricassee 

Dress  and  joint  a  chicken,  and  let  it  simmer  slowly,  closely 
covered,  in  1  qt  hot  water,  with  2  stalks  celery,  1  bay  leaf, 
1  slice  of  onion,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and  a  pinch  of 
curry.  When  the  chicken  is  tender,  remove  from  the  liquid 
and  place  on  a  hot  platter.  Stir  into  the  liquid  1  beaten 
egg,  V2  cup  cream,  or  1  tablesp  butter,  and  1  tablesp  flour, 
and  let  boil  up,  then  pour  over  the  chicken  and  serve  hot. 
The  platter  may  be  garnished  with  a  border  of  hot  mashed 
potatoes,  and  edged  with  parsley. — [Mrs.  E.  J.  G.,  Mass. 

Chicken  Sonp  with  Dumplings 

Dress  and  cut  up  a  chicken,  and  put  on  to  boil  in  plenty 
of  cold  water,  adding  salt  to  taste.  Let  boil  long  and  slowly, 
and  about  one  hour  before  serving  add  1  pt  carrots,  peeled 
and  sliced  fine,  and  %  hour  later  1  qt  potatoes,  peeled  and 
sliced  also,  an  onion,  if  liked,  and  %  hour  later  dumplings 
made  as  follows.  Put  Vz  cup  butter  in  a  frying  pan  and  when 
hot  add  ^2  cup  flour,  and  let  cook  about  10  minutes,  stirring 
vigorously,  but  do  not  let  it  brown.  Then  add  some  of  the 
chicken  broth,  a  little  at  a  time,  to  convert  the  mass  into  a 
smooth  ball  which  will  free  entirely  from  the  pan.  Remove 
from  the  fire,  and  when  cool  add  1  or  2  beaten  eggs,  and 
mix  well.  Drop  into  the  boiling  soup  by  spoonsful  and  boil 
steadily  about  I'B   or  20  minutes. —  [Mrs.  A.  P.,  Neb. 


38  THE   ORANGE   JUDD   COOK  BOOK 


Hot  Tamales 

Boil  a  chicken  until  very  tender,  remove  bones  and  chop 
meat  fine.  To  each  lb  meat  add  1  medium  sized  tomato  and 
onion  chopped  fine,  salt  and  red  pepper  to  taste,  and  moisten 
to  the  consistency  of  mush  with  the  chicken  broth.  Heat 
the  remainder  of  the  liquor  to  boiling,  stir  in  cornmeal  to 
make  a  little  stiffer  than  ordinary  mush,  and  cook  thoroughly. 
Take  nice,  fresh  corn  husks  and  soak  in  warm  water  until 
soft.  Then  spread  a  half-inch  layer  of  mush  on  each  husk, 
and  put  a  good  spoonful  of  the  meat  mixture  on  that,  and 
roll  up  so  that  the  meat  is  covered  by  the  mush  and  the 
whole  is  nicely  wrapped  in  the  husks.  Turn  in  the  ends 
and  tie  tightly  with  twine,  and  steam  %  hour.  Serve  in 
the  husks.  Nice  tamales  can  be  made  in  the  same  way 
with  either  fresh  beef  or  fresh  pork.  The  neck  of  beef  is 
best,  as  it  has  the  right  proportion  of  fat  and  lean,  and  the 
shoulder   of  pork  is  good,  adding  a  little  more   fat  to  it.     ^ 

Fried  Guinea-Hen 

Select  a  nice,  fat  guinea-hen  weighing  about  3  lbs,  clean 
and  wash  thoroughly  in  cold  water,  and  put  in  a  kettle  over 
the  fire  with  scarcely  enough  cold  water  to  cover,  adding  1 
teasp  salt  and  1  tablesp  vinegar,  after  the  hen  has  boiled 
1  hour.  When  tender  joint  and  cut  in  pieces  of  convenient 
size,  and  fry  brown  on  both  sides  in  butter.  Remove  from 
the  frying  pan  to  platter,  add  1  cup  thick  sweet  cream  to 
the  gravy  in  the  pan,  season  to  taste,  let  boil  up,  and  serve. — 
[Mrs.  C.  E.  D.,  N.  Y. 

Roast   Turkey 

Having  properly  dressed  and  stuffed  the  turkey,  rub  entire 
surface  with  salt,  spread  breast,  wings  and  legs  with  butter, 
rubbed  until  creamy  and  mixed  with  flour,  and  dredge  bottom 
of  pan  with  flour.  Place  in  hot  oven,  and  when  flour  on 
turkey  begins  to  brown,  reduce  heat,  baste  with  fat  in  pan» 
and  add  2  cups  soiling  water.  Continue  basting  every  15 
minutes  until  tur  ey  is  cooked,  which  will  require  about  3 
hours  for  a  10-lb  turkey.  For  basting,  use  Vz  cup  butter 
melted  in  y2  cup  boiling  water  in  which  the  giblets  were 
cooked,  and  after  lis  is  used  baste  with  fat  in  pan.  During 
cooking,  turn  turk  y  frequently,  that  it  may  brown  evenly. 
To  prepare  gravy:  As  soon  as  turkey  is  removed  from  pan 
pour  off  liquid,  from  which  skim  6  tablesp  fat,  return  fat 
to  ^^an,  brown  with  1  or  2  tablesp  flour,  and  pour  on  gradually 
t\e  remaining  liquor,  to  which  the  giblets,  finely  chopped, 
nave  been  added,  and  cook  5  minutes.  Remove  string  and 
skewers  from  turkey,  and  garnish  with  parsley  or  celery  tips 
before  serving. 


THE   ORANGE  JUDD   COOK  BOOK  39 


Roast  Goose 

Dress  and  wash  thorouglily,  and  half  fill  with  a  dressing 
prepared  as  follows:  Boil  and  chop  fine  1  doz  onions  and 
mix  well  with  an  equal  quantity  of  bread  crumbs;  add  1 
teasp  sage,  salt,  and  1  level  teasp  pepper.  Bake  in  a  hot 
oven,  basting  frequently.  When  done  skim  the  fat  from 
the  gravy  in  the  pan,  add  the  liquid  from  the  boiled  giblets, 
and  also  the  giblets  chopped  fine,  thicken  with  a  little  flour, 
and  season  o  taste.  Serve  goose  with  apple  sauce. — [S.  B., 
N.  Y. — A  very  nice  dressing  for  goose  is  boiled  sauerkraut, 
seasoned  with  pepper. —  [Mrs.  J.  H.,  Minn. 

Boiled    or   Koasted   Duck 

A  delicious  flavor  is  imparted  to  boiled  duck  by  boiling 
with  it  1  large  onion,  1  tablesp  vinegar,  and  about  V2  teasp 
sage,  besides  salt  and  pepper.  When  tender,  remove  the 
duck,  boil  down  the  liquor,  skim  off  the  fat,  thicken  with  a 
little  flour  browned  in  a  pan  with  some  butter,  return  the 
duck  to  the  gravy,  and  let  simmer  a  few  minutes.  To  roast, 
if  the  duck  is  very  fat  or  old,  parboil  it  first,  with  a  pinch 
of  baking  soda,  then  stuff  with  any  preferred  dressing,  (the 
English  use  raisins,  prunes  or  apples  in  the  dressing),  pin 
a  few  thin  slices  of  salt  pork  across  the  breast  with  wooden 
toothpicks,  and  baste  often.  Onions,  sage  and  salt  pork 
combine  very  nicely  with  the  duck  flavor.  Another  nice  way 
is  to  joint,  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  sage,  roll  in  flour, 
and  put  in  layers  in  a  small  pan,  with  minced  onion  and  bits 
*f  butter  between,  ending  with  a  layer  of  onions,  bread  crumbs 
and  butter.  Then  fill  the  pan  half  full  with  water  or  milk, 
cover  closely,  and  bake  about  2  hours,  removing  the  upper 
paa  during  the  last  %   hour,  to  brown  nicely. — [A.  G.,  Mass. 

Baked  Jack  Rabbit 

If  "jack"  is  old,  after  dressing,  parboil  for  3  to  5  minutes, 
adding  about  1  teasp  soda  to  the  hot  water,  and  then  drain. 
Fasten  slices  of  salt  pork  across  the  back  of  the  rabbit,  with 
wooden  toothpicks.  This  imparts  a  good  flavor  and  prevents 
the  drying  out  of  the  meat.  Season  and  dredge  well  with 
flour,  and  put  a  few  bits  of  butter  around  the  rabbit  in  the 
pan,  adding  a  very  little  water,  and  about  1  tablesp  vinegar. 
Baste  often.  When  done  thicken  the  gravy  with  a  little 
flour. — [Mrs.  W.  H.,  Kan. 

Curried  Rabbit 

Wash  and  joint  the  rabbit  and  dredge  each  piece  with 
flour.      Put  the   good   trimmings  and   a   few   scraps   of  meat 


40         THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK 

with  2  large  onions,  1  carrot,  sliced,  a  small  pinch  of  herbs, 
6  pepper  corns,  and  1  tablesp  curry  powder  in  a  saucepan 
with  enough  cold  water  to  cover,  and  simmer  for  l^^  hours, 
and  then  strain  off  the  liquor.  Pry  1  small  minced  onion 
a  light  brown  in  1  tablesp  drippings,  add  1  tablesp  curry 
paste,  and  stir  over  the  fire  about  10  minutes,  then  add  the 
stock,  and  when  it  has  come  to  a  boil,  draw  It  to  the  side 
and  let  it  simmer.  The  sauce  may  be  thickened  with  a 
little  flour.  While  this  is  simmering  prepare  the  rabbit  as 
follows.  Fry  the  flour-dredged  joints  brown  in  a  little 
drippings,  with  1  onion,  then  add  to  the  curry  sauce,  and 
let  stand  on  the  back  of  the  range  to  simmer  very  slowly 
about  1  hour.  Just  before  serving  add  a  little  lemon  juice, 
and  pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  and  serve  hot,  with  boiled  rice 
and  red  currant  jelly. — [M.  L.  D.,  Scotland. 

Stewed  Rabbit 

Dress  and  clean  a  couple  of  young  rabbits,  joint  them, 
and  put  into  a  stew  pan  with  2  large  Spanish  onions,  cut 
small;  add  enough  milk  to  cover,  season  with  white  pepper, 
cover  closely,  and  stew  very  slowly  until  tender,  then  season, 
with  salt,  add  butter  to  the  gravy,  and  thicken  with  flour. 
If  any  of  this  dish  is  left  over  dip  each  piece  in  beateu 
egg,  roll  in  bread  crumbs  or  cornmeal,  season  with  salt, 
pepper  and  a  little  grated  lemon  rind,  and  fry  in  hot  drip- 
pings until  nicely  browned  on  both  sides.  Serve  hot  with 
the  gravy  seasoned  with  lemon  juice  and  cayenne  pepper, 
or  a  little  catsup.  Young  rabbits  are  also  nice  cooked  with 
green  peas.  Joint  and  put  in  a  stew  pan  with  a  slice  of  lean 
ham,  cut  in  small  pieces,  1  tablesp  butter,  1  or  2  spring 
onions,  a  small  sprig  of  parsley,  and  1  qt  fresh  green  peas. 
Dredge  in  some  flour,  pour  in  a  little  milk,  and  let  come 
to  a  boil,  then  draw  to  the  back  of  the  stove  and  let  stew 
slowly  until  rabbit  and  peas  are  tender.  Just  before  serving 
season  with  salt  and  a  very  little  sugar. — [M.  L.  D.,  Scotland. 

Baked   Coon 

The  raccoon  which  makes  free  with  the  farmer's  com  gets 
very  fat  in  the  fall,  on  corn,  apples  and  clover,  and  makes 
delicious  eating,  though  often  thrown  away  because  of  the 
prejudice  that  many  people  have  against  wild  meat.  FirstJ 
skin  the  coon  carefully,  then  remove  the  layer  of  fat,  which! 
is  often  an  inch  thick,  right  under  the  skin.  This  fat  would 
give  the  meat  a  disagreeable,  oily  taste,  if  left  on,  but  it  is 
nice  and  white,  and  can  be  tried  out  the  same  as  leaf  lard, 
and  used  for  soap.  Thoroughly  wash  the  dressed  coon  in 
cold  water  and  soak  over  night  in  cold  water  with  1  tables^ 
salt  added  to  each   gallon  water.     Bake  the  same  as  veaL 


THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK         41 

If  the  coon  is  old,  as  shown  by  large  size,  dark  meat,  and 
stiff  hard  bones  and  joints,  it  should  be  parboiled  from  1 
to  2  hours,  before  roasting. —  [I.  R.  N.,  Me. 

"'Possum  and  Sweet  'Taters" 

Pour  a  large  kettleful  of  hot  water  in  a  convenient  vessel, 
add  a  small  shovel  of  ashes,  and  then  put  the  'possum  in 
this,  but  do  not  have  the  water  as  hot  as  for  scalding  chickens. 
Turn  the  'possum  around  until  the  fur  is  loosened,  and  you 
will  have  no  trouble  in  skinning  him  perfectly  clean.  Remove 
head,  feet  and  entrails,  wash  thoroughly  in  cold  water,  salt  in 
and  outside,  and  let  hang  over  night.  In  the  morning  wash 
again  and  put  in  a  baking  pan  with  a  little  water.  Cover 
closely  with  another  pan,  and  put  it  over  the  fire.  When 
tender  remove  the  top  pan  and  put  the  'possum  in  the  oven  to 
brown.  Dust  with  black  pepper  and  baste  with  lard.  While 
it  is  baking,  peel  potatoes,  cut  them  in  thick  slices,  and  put 
them  in  a  skillet  over  the  fire  with  salt  and  a  little  water  and 
lard.  Cover,  and  let  steam  until  tender.  By  that  time  the 
'possum  will  be  nicely  brown.  Turn  the  prepared  potatoes 
over  him,  return  to  the  oven,  and  when  nicely  brown,  put 
the  'possum  on  a  platter,  arrange  the  potatoes  around  him, 
and  serve. — [Mrs.  S.  J.  S.,  Ala. 

Fried  Venison  with  Gravy 

Cut  venison  into  medium  thick  slices,  hack  it  criss-cross 
with  a  butcher's  knife  on  both  sides,  roll  in  flour,  sprinkle 
with  salt  and  pepper,  and  fry  in  hot  drippings  until  evenly 
browned  on  both  sides.  Put  the  steak  on  a  warm  platter 
and  add  V2  cup  milk  and  cream  mixed  to  the  gravy  in  the 
frying  pan  and  a  very  little  flour  to  thicken  slightly.  Let  boil 
up  once,  and  then  pour  over  the  steak,  and  serve  at  once. — 
[Mrs.  B.  H.,  Ore. 

Bread  Dressing 

To  1  qt  bread  crumbs  add  1  onion,  chopped  fine,  salt,  pepper 
and  sage  to  taste,  1  or  2  beaten  eggs,  and  fatty  meat  liquor 
to  moisten. — [Mrs.  W.  H.  B.,  Cal. 

Oyster  Dressing 

Mix  together  1  qt  stale  bread  crumbs,  1  pt  finely  chopped 
oysters,  1  beaten  egg,  2  tablesp  melted  butter,  1  teasp  herbs, 
and  milk  enough  to  moisten. —  [Mrs.  J.  C.  R.,  Ind. 


When  roasting  beef  or  pork,  add  some  thick  slices  of  raw 
carrot.  They  impart  a  delicious  flavor  to  the  meat  and 
gravy. —  [Mrs.  B.  L.  G.,  Ore. 


42         THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK 

Saaces  for  Meat,  Poultry  and  Game 

Some  Appropriate  Combinations 

Roast  park  with  apple  sauce. 

Roast  lamb  with  mint  sauce. 

Roast  beef  with  horseradish,  piquant  or  Flemish  sauce. 

Roast  mutton   with   stewed   gooseberries. 

Roast  chicken  with  currant  jelly. 

Roast  goose  with  apple  sauce. 

Roast  turkey  with  cranberry,  chestnut,  grape  or  plum  sauce^ 

Roast  duck  with  olive  sauce. 

Roast  venison  with  currant  jelly. 

Boiled  mutton  with  caper,  or  horseradish  sauce. 

Boiled  turkey  with  oyster,  celery  or  mushroom  sauce. 

Boiled  venison  with  currant-bread  sauce. 

Broiled  steak  with  mushroom,  or  hot  horseradish  sauce. 

Broiled  mackerel  with  stewed  gooseberries. 

Codfish  balls  with  apple  sauce. 

Sweetbreads,  tenderloins  or  pigeon  pie  with  mushroom. 

Game  with  currant-bread  sauce. 

Chops,  cutlets,  or  croquettes  with  tomato  sauce. 

Baked  or  boiled  fish  with  egg,  parsley,  oyster  or  tartare. 

Drawn  Butter  Sauce 

Melt  V4,  cup  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  2  tablesp  flour,  % 
teasp  salt,  a  pinch  of  pepper,  and  when  well  blended,  1  pt  hot 
water  or  hot  clear  soup  stock.  Stir  rapidly  until  it  thickens; 
then  add  another  scant  ^^  cup  butter,  a  little  at  a  time,  and 
continue  stirring  and  cooking  until  the  butter  is  all  absorbed. 
This  sauce  can  be  made  the  basis  of  parsley,  egg,  caper, 
lemon,  celery,  shrimp,  mustard,  oyster,  lobster  and  other 
sauces. 

White  Sauce 

Melt  2  rounding  tablesp  butter  in  a  saucepan,  adding  the 
same  quantity  flour,  and  stirring  until  free  from  lumps.  Then 
add  1  pt  hot  milk,  pouring  in  less  than  half  at  first,  and 
when  it  thickens  rubbing  and  beating  until  entirely  free  from 
lumps.  Then  add  the  remainder  of  the  milk,  a  very  little 
pepper  and  V2  teasp  salt,  and  let  it  boil  up  again.  Half  the 
milk  may  be  replaced  by  clear  soup  stock,  or  cream  may  be 
used  instead  of  milk,  if  a  cream  sauce  is  desired.  White 
sauce  may  be  used  instead  of  drawn  butter  sauce,  in  any  of 
the  variations  of  drawn  butter  sauce,  if  a  less  rich  sauce 
is  desired. 


THE   ORANGE   JUDD  COOK  BOOK  43 


Brown  Sauce 

Melt  -  rounding  tablesp  butter  in  a  saucepan,  adding  the 
same  quantity  of  flour,  and  stirring  until  nicely  browned,  but 
not  burned.  Then  add  1  pt  hot,  dark  soup  stock,  i/^  teasp 
salt,  a  little  pepper,  and,  if  not  dark  enough,  caramel  (burnt 
sugar)  enough  to  give  the  desired  color.  Cook  until  it  thick- 
ens, rubbing  out  all  lumps.  The  sauce  will  be  better  flavored 
if  pot  herbs,  a  bit  of  onion  and  a  few  peppercorns  are  added 
to  the  stock  in  its  making.  Brown  sauce  is  made  the  basis 
of  mushroom,  chestnut,  olive,  peanut,  Flemish,  Cumberland, 
currant  jelly,  brown  sauce  piquant  and  various  other  sauces. 

Onion  Sauce 

Boil  3  large  onions  until  very  tender;  drain,  and  rub 
through  a  sieve;  add  to  y^  pt  white  sauce  made  with  cream, 
and  serve  with  lamb  or  mutton  chop. 

Mint  Sauce 

Chop  enough  leaves  and  tender  tops  of  mint  to  fill  1  cup 
(or  use  half  the  quantity  of  the  dried  leaves).  Add  y^  cup 
sugar,  and  y^  cup  not-too-strong  vinegar.  Prepare  an  hour 
before  using,  to  allow  the  vinegar  to  absorb  the  flavor  of 
the  mint. 

Tomato   Sauce 

To  1  pt  stewed  tomatoes  add  a  small  chopped  onion,  a  sprig 
of  parsley,  a  bay  leaf,  blade  of  mace,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 
While  they  are  simmering  for  15  minutes,  melt  3  level  tablesp 
butter  and  rub  into  it  1  tablesp  flour.  Strain  the  tomatoes 
through  a  sieve,  add  to  the  flour  and  butter,  and  boil  until  it 
thickens,  stirring  continually. 

Hot  Horseradish  Sauce 

This  sauce  is  nice  for  hot  baked,  fried,  or  boiled  meats. 
To  make  it,  melt  1  tablesp  butter  in  a  saucepan  and  stir  in  1 
tablesp  flour.  Add  1  cup  milk,  or  better,  1  cup  chicken  or  veal 
broth,  and  boil  for  5  minutes.  Beat  the  yolk  of  1  ^zz,  add 
1  scant  teasp  each  of  sugar  and  made  mustard,  and  i^  cup 
sweet  cream.  Draw  the  pan  to  the  back  of  the  stove  and 
add  the  ^zz  and  milk,  stirring  until  almost  at  the  boiling  point. 
Then  add  %  cup  grated  horseradish  and  1  tablesp  vinegar  or 
lemon  juice,  and  simmer  for  2  or  3  minutes.    Use  at  once. 

Celery  Sauce 

Clean  and  chop  very  fine  2  large  heads  of  celery,  reserving 
a  few  of  the  stalks  to  cut  into  inch  lengths.  Cover  with  cold 
water  and  cook  until  the  celery  is  quite  tender  and  the  water 


44         THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK 

nearly  boiled  away.  Pick  out  the  long  pieces,  and  add  1  pt 
rich  milk  or  cream,  1  level  teasp  salt,  and  a  dash  of 
pepper.  Rub  together  1  heaping  tablesp  each  of  butter 
and  flour,  add  the  beaten  yolk  of  1  egg,  and  stir  into  the 
milk.  Let  simmer  for  10  minutes,  adding  the  long  pieces  of 
celery,  and  serve  with  chicken  or  turkey.  The  egg  is  not 
essential,  but  gives  a  better  color  to  the  sauce. 

Chestnut    Sauce 

Shell  1  pt  chestnuts  and  drop  into  boiling  water  5  minutes. 
Slip  off  the  skins,  split  open,  and  cook  in  salted  water  or  stock 
until  very  tender.  Rub  through  a  sieve  and  add  to  the  brown 
pan  gravy  from  roast  turkey.  To  make  the  sauce  independent 
of  the  turkey  gravy,  brown  1  tablesp  flour  in  2  tablesp  butter, 
pour  in  the  water  or  stock  in  which  the  nuts  were  boiled, 
adding  the  mashed  nuts,  pepper  and  salt  to  season-. 

Made  Mustard 

Mix  together  2  tablesp  mustard,  1  teasp  each  of  sugar,  flour 
and  salt,  and  %  teasp  pepper.  Rub  smooth  in  ^A  cup  cold 
vinegar,  add  ^  cup  boiling  water,  and  stir  and  coek  until  it 
thickens. 

Mustard  Sauce 

For  deviled  turkey,  salt  fish,  etc.,  this  sauce  is  made  by  add- 
ing 3  tablesp  made  mustard,  and  a  dash  of  cayenne  to  1  pt 
drawn  butter  sauce. —  [Mrs.  A.  B.,  Col. 

Spanish  Sauce 

Peel  and  chop  fine  2  or  3  large,  ripe  tomatoes  and  2  onions, 
add  3  or  4  green  chillis,  seeds  removed,  and  chopped  fine,  and 
season  with  salt,  and  a  little  vinegar.  This  is  usually  served 
with  barbacued  meat. —  [Mrs.  L.  J.,  Cal. 

Fish  Sauce 

Cook  3  or  4  ripe  tomatoes  with  1  tablesp  butter,  %  an  onion, 
cut  fine,  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  When  done  rub  through 
a  sieve  and  gradually  stir  in  1  cup  boiling  milk.  Thicken  with 
a  little  flour.  Pour  around  the  fish  on  the  platter  and  place  in 
the  oven  for  about  10  minutes. —  [Mrs.  J.  B.,  Kan. 

Vinegar  Cream  Sauce 

Put  2  cups  vinegar  in  a  double  boiler,  mix  1  cup  sugar,  2 
eggs,  1  cup  sweet  cream,  V2  cup  mustard,  and  1  teasp  salt,  and 
pour  this  mixture  into  the  vinegar  and  let  come  to  a  boil.  Then 
put  in  jar  and  seal.  This  will  keep  well  in  a  cold  place  and 
is  nice  with  cold  meats,  fish,  etc. —  [G.  W.  J. 


Potatoes,  Vegetables  and  Salads 

AREFUL  cooking  of  vegetables  and  judi- 
cious mixing  of  salads  are  not  the  least  part 
of  culinary  proficiency.  Since  vegetables 
are  the  most  healthful  of  our  food  stuffs, 
they  should  be  served  freely,  but  in  such 
shape  that  they  may  be  easy  of  digestion 
and  palatable.  That  responsibility  rests 
with  the  cook.  Salads  are  considered  of  less  importance 
in  food  value,  but  as  a  relish  they  find  a  welcome  place 
on  the  menu.  It  takes  an  '"artist"  to  properly  blend  the 
ingredients  for  a  salad  dressing — quantities  can  only  be 
suggested  in  a  recipe — the  rest  is  "up  to"  the  cook. 

Potato  Ways 

Do  not  always  serve  potatoes  in  the  same  old  way.  It  would 
seem  to  be  a  very  simple  matter  to  boil  a  potato,  and  yet 
there  is  a  proper  and  improper  way  of  doing  even  this.  First 
wash  potatoes,  then  peel  and  drop  in  cold  water,  and  if  the 
tubers  are  old,  let  them  stand  in  fresh  cold  water  for  an  hour 
or  two,  to  draw  out  the  sharp  flavor.  Use  an  agate  or  por- 
celain-lined vessel.  Cover  the  potatoes  with  fresh  boiling 
water,  add  salt,  cover  closely,  and  boil  briskly  until  done.  Test 
with  a  sharp  steel  fork.  When  done,  drain  off  water  and  put 
the  pot  on  back  of  the  stove  to  let  the  potatoes  dry 
off,  then  cover  with  a  clean  napkin,  to  keep  warm,  but  do  not 
delay  the  serving  any  longer  than  necessary.  When  potatoes 
are  to  be  boiled  "in  their  jackets" — that  is,  without  peeling — 
wash  them  clean  and  follow  the  above  directions.  When  done 
put  them  in  a  hot  oven  a  few  minutes  to  dry.  To  bake  pota- 
toes, wash,  place  in  a  hot  oven,  and  prick  the  skins  with  a 
sharp  fork,  to  allow  the  steam  to  escape.  Potatoes  are  also 
nice  when  baked  with  the  roast  meat.  Peel  and  cut  in  uniform 
size,  place  around  the  roast  during  the  last  three-quarter  hour, 
and  baste  potatoes  along  with  the  roast  meat. 

Boiled  potatoes  for  frying  should  not  be  too  soft  and  mealy; 
cut  in  thin  slices  and  fry  in  very  hot  drippings,  turning  so  that 
they  may  be  browned  evenly;  but  do  not  have  too  many  pota- 
toes in  the  pan  at  once,  and  be  sure  to  have  the  fat  hot,  and 
fry  quickly,  otherwise  the  potatoes  will  soak  grease  and  turn 


46         THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK 


out  unpalatable  and  unwholesome.  To  fry  raw  potatoes  slice 
them  any  thickness  desired  (for  potato  chips  they  should  be 
cut  very  thin),  dry  thoroughly  on  a  clean  towel,  and  drop  in 
smoking,  hot  fat,  the  same  as  doughnuts,  turning  to  brown  on 
both  sides.  Do  not  put  too  many  potatoes  in  at  once,  as  this 
would  reduce  the  temperature  of  the  fat  and  cause  the  pota- 
toes to  soak  grease.  When  done  skim  out  the  slices,  lay  them 
out  on  a  piece  of  soft  paper  to  soak  up  the  superfluous  fat, 
sprinkle  with  salt,  and  serve  hot.  They  should  be  nice  and 
crisp.  Another  way  is  to  peel  the  potatoes  and  then  peel 
them  again,  so  as  to  have  a  long  spiral  ribbon,  and  bake  these 
in  deep  hot  fat.  A  very  nice  dish  is  made  of  diced  potatoes, 
salt  pork  and  onions.  Cut  the  pork  in  pieces,  fry  brown,  and 
then  add  the  potatoes  and  onions,  and  let  all  brown  together. 
To  prepare  mashed  potatoes,  mash  the  potatoes- after  boiling 
and  draining,  add  hot  milk  and  butter,  and  beat  until  light. 
If  desired,  the  yolk  of  an  egg  may  be  added,  and  a  little 
more  milk,  the  mixture  turned  into  a  buttered  pudding  dish, 
rolled  cracker  or  bread  crumbs  sprinkled  over  the  top,  with 
dots  of  butter,  and  put  in  the  oven  to  brown. — [A.  G.,  Mass. 

Escalloped  Potatoes 

Slice  cold,  boiled  potatoes,  put  a  layer  in  a  buttered  pudding 
dish,  then  a  layer  of  cracker  or  bread  crumbs,  sprinkle  with 
pepper  and  salt,  dot  with  butter,  and  so  proceed  until  the 
dish  is  full,  topping  off  with  bread  crumbs  and  butter.  Put 
in  milk  enough  to  come  almost  to  the  top  of  the  potatoes,  and 
bake  brown.  Raw  potatoes  can  be  treated  the  same  way,  and 
if  liked,  some  finely  cut  onions  added,  and  salt  pork  fried 
brown;  add  either  milk  or  clear  soup  stock  for  liquid. — [Mrs. 
C.  G.,  N.  D. 

Stuffed  Potatoes 

Cut  large  baked  potatoes  in  two,  lengthwise  and  scoop  out 
the  interior,  keeping  the  shells  whole.  Mash  the  potatoes  and 
to  each  one  add  1  teasp  grated  cheese,  1  tablesp  cream,  and 
salt,  pepper  and  butter  to  taste.  Whip  until  light,  heap  into 
the  shells,  and  return  to  oven  to  brown.  Serve  with  a  garnish 
of  lettuce  and  hard-boiled  eggs. —  [Mrs.  G.  L.  S.,  N.  Y. 

Potato  Loaf 

To  1  cup  chopped  suet  add  2  qt  chopped  potatoes,  2  large 
onions,  cut  fine,  1  cup  meat  gravy  or  soup  stock,  or  milk  and 
butter  mixed,  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Turn  into  a  but- 
tered baking  dish,  cover,  and  bake  till  done.  Then  remove  the 
cover  and  brown  the  top. —  [Mrs.  L.  S.,  Minn. 


THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK         47 


Sweet  Potato  Croquettes 

Mash  cold  sweet  potatoes  and  to  each  qt  add  1  teasp  salt,  2 
tablesp  sugar,  1  beaten  egg,  and  scant  y2  cup  rich  milk,  with 
a  very  little  flour — just  enough  to  handle.  Shape  into  small 
biscuits,  roll  in  flour,  and  fry  brown  on  both  sides  in  hot 
butter. — [Miss  F.  E.  S.,  Ga. 

Stuffed  Sweet  Potatoes 

Peel  large,  short,  sweet  potatoes,  and  cut  in  half  length- 
wise; scrape  out  one-third  of  the  potatoes,  and  fill  the  cavities 
with  pork  sausage  meat,  then  lay  the  halves  together  again, 
and  fasten  at  each  end  with  a  wooden  toothpick.  Put  in  a 
baking  pan  with  a  little  water,  and  bake  until  tender,  with  a 
moderate  fire,  basting  occasionally. —  [Mrs.  J.  C.  R.,  Ind. 

Candied  Sweet  Potatoes 

To  2  cups  sugar  add  1  cup  water,  and  boil  until  it  syrups, 
the  same  as  for  preserves,  then  remove  from  the  fire  and  stir 
in  1  heaping  tablesp  butter.  Slice  boiled  sweet  potatoes  into 
a  buttered  baking  pan  of  the  proper  size,  pour  the  syrup  over 
them  to  almost  cover,  put  extra  bits  of  butter  about  on  top 
of  them,  and  bake  about  1  hour,  or  longer,  basting  occasion- 
ally by  tilting  the  pan  and  dipping  up  some  of  the  liquid.  Be 
careful  not  to  let  the  top  get  dry.  Serve  hot  in  the  pan  in  which 
it  is  baked. —  [Mrs.  P.  A.  D.,  Mo. 

Fried  Corn 

Cut  tender  corn  from  the  cob  and  fry  In  a  little  sweet  butter, 
just  enough  to  keep  the  corn  from  sticking  to  the  pan,  stirring 
often.  When  nicely  browned,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and 
add  a  little  sweet  cream.     Serve  immediately. —  [L.  A.  K.,  111. 

Baked  Com 

To  1  pt  green  corn  cut  from  the  cob,  add  1  qt  milk,  3  beaten 
eggs,  1  heaping  tablesp  butter,  and  salt  to  taste.  Sprinkle  a 
battered  pudding  dish  with  cracker  crumbs,  pour  in  the  com 
mixture,  cover  with  cracker  crumbs,  dot  with  butter,  and  bake 
slowly  11/2   hours. —  [L.  A.  K.,  111. 

Boiled  Green  Com 

Freshly  gathered  com  is  best  for  boiling.  It  loses  its 
sweetness  if  you  wait  too  long  after  picking.  Strip  off  the 
husks  and  silk,  cut  off  the  stem  ends,  and  plunge  into  briskly 
toiling  water  to  cover.     Do  not  add  any  salt.     Cover  the  kettle 


48  THE   ORANGE   JUDD   COOK  BOOK 


and  let  boil  fast,  20  minutes.  Pile  the  corn  up  on  a  platter, 
cover  v/ith  a  clean  towel,  and  serve  at  once,  or  cut  from  the 
cob,  add  pepper,  salt,  butter  and  a  little  cream. —  [L.  A.  K.,  111. 

Dried  Corn 

Cook  sweet  corn  on  the  cob  in  salted  water  about  20  min- 
utes, then  cut  from  the  cob,  spread  on  shallow  plates,  and  dry 
very  slowly  in  a  rather  cool  oven.  Put  the  dried  corn  in  sacks 
and  place  in  a  v/arm,  dry  place.  If  in  about  10  days  the  corn 
shows  no  signs  of  moisture  it  will  keep  well,  but  if  any  mois- 
ture remains  in  the  corn,  it  will  mildew.  When  wanted  for 
use  soak  1  pt  dried  corn  in  cold  water  over  night,  and  if 
wanted  for  dinner,  put  over  the  fire  about  ten  o'clock  with  a 
small  piece  of  lean  fresh  pork,  or  salt  pork,  1  doz  potatoes, 
peeled  and  cut  in  small  pieces,  and  water  enough  to  cook. — 
[Mrs.  M.  E.  B.,  Wis. 

Salted  Corn  and  Beans 

Cook  corn  on  the  cob,  cut  off  and  salt  down  in  a  glass 
jar,  allowing  1  cup  salt  to  4  cups  corn.  This  will  make 
its  own  brine,  but  if  in  2  or  3  days  there  is  not  sufficient  brine 
to  cover,  make  a  strong  brine  and  cover,  and  weight  down. 
When  wanted  for  use  put  the  desired  quantity  of  corn  in  clear 
cold  water,  and  put  it  on  the  back  of  the  range  where  it  will 
get  lukewarm,  and  let  stand  3  or  4  hours,  after  which  drain^ 
and  if  not  too  salt,  add  cream  and  butter,  and  cook.  Beans, 
when  fresh  and  tender,  can  be  put  down  in  salt  the  same 
way,  only  do  not  cook  the  beans  first. — [Mrs.  A.  H.,  Col. 

Stewed  Tomatoes 

There  are  many  different  ways  of  stewing  tomatoes.  I  do 
not  like  my  stewed  tomatoes  mixed  with  a  lot  of  mushy  bread 
or  cracker  crumbs.  Peel  ripe  tomatoes,  or  use  the  peeled 
canned  tomatoes.  Boil  until  tender,  but  no  longer,  and  do 
not  add  any  seasoning  until  just  before  serving,  and  then  add 
pepper,  salt  and  butter,  and  thicken  with  a  very  little  flour 
mixed  to  a  smooth  paste  with  cold  water.  Boil  up  once,  and 
lastly  add  a  very  little  sugar — not  enough  to  make  it  sweet, 
but  just  enough  to  kill  the  sour  taste.  Never  boil  tomatoes 
any  longer  than  absolutely  necessary,  and  serve  at  once. — 
[A.   G.,   Mass. 

Creamed  Tomatoes 

Let  1  qt  canned  or  fresh  tomatoes  come  to  a  boil,  then  add 
1  heaping  tablesp  each  flour  and  sugar,  1  teasp  salt,  and  a 
pinch  of  soda,  all  mixed  well  with  a  little  cold  milk  to  a  smooth 
paste.  Let  boil  up  once,  then  add  1  cup  thick,  sweet  cream, 
and  when  heated  through,  serve  at  once. —  [Mrs.  A.  B.,  Ore. 


THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK         4& 


Escalloped  Tomatoes 

Sprinkle  the  bottom  of  a  buttered  pudding  dish  with  bread 
crumbs,  then  fill  up  with  ripe,  peeled  and  sliced  tomatoes, 
seasoning  each  layer  with  butter,  pepper,  salt  and  some  minced 
onions,  if  liked.  Cover  thickly  with  bread  crumbs,  dot  liber- 
ally with  butter,  and  bake. —  [E.  T.,  N.  Y. 

Fried  Tomatoes 

Either  ripe  or  green  tomatoes  may  be  used.  Peel,  cut  cross- 
wise in  half-inch  slices,  dip  in  beaten  egg,  sprinkle  with  salt, 
pepper,  and  a  very  little  sugar,  dip  in  flour  and  fry  in  hot 
butter. — [Mrs.  E.  A.,  N.  H, 

Scrambled  Tomatoes 

Peel  %  doz  medium  sized  tomatoes,  cut  in  small  pieces, 
and  put  in  a  saucepan  with  butter  size  of  an  egg,  salt,  and  a 
little  pepper.  Boil  till  soft,  then  stir  in  4  beaten  eggs,  cook  2 
or  3  minutes  longer,  and  serve  at  once. — [R.  M.  P.,  Mass. 

Stuffed  Tomatoes 

Cut  slice  from  stem  end  of  tomatoes,  remove  pulp,  and  mix 
up  with  some  minced  onion,  bread  crumbs,  beaten  egg,  and 
pepper  and  salt,  and  fill  into  the  tomato  shells.  Put  a  lump  of 
butter  on  each  tomato,  and  bake  in  a  buttered  pudding  dish. 
Another  way  is  to  mix  with  the  tomato  pulp  some  hulled  corn, 
or  rice,  or  macaroni  with  grated  cheese. — [R.  M.  P.,  Mass. 

Baked    Tomatoes    and    Onions 

Peel  and  cut  up  6  medium  sized  green  tomatoes  and  3 
onions,  add  1  qt  water  (or  a  litle  less),  1  tablesp  each  salt, 
sugar,  and  butter,  2  tablesp  vinegar,  and  i/4  teasp  pepper. 
Boil  until  tender,  then  turn  into  a  buttered  pudding  dish, 
cover  with  1  pt  bread  crumbs,  dot  with  bits  of  butter,  and 
bake. —  [Mrs.  H.  M.  S.,  Pa. 

Carrots 

Peel  and  cut  carrots  in  very  small  pieces  and  put  over  the 
fire  with  a  little  water,  salt  and  butter.  Cook  until  tender, 
and  when  most  all  the  water  has  cooked  off,  thicken  the  re- 
mainder with  a  little  flour  rubbed  to  a  smooth  paste  with  cold 
milk,  and  add  a  very  little  sugar.  Onions  may  be  stewed  with 
the  carrots,  but  in  this  case  omit  the  sugar,  and  add  pepper. — • 
[E.  K.,  Mass. 


50  THE   ORANGE  JUDD   COOK  BOOK 


Carrot  Fritters 

Mash  2  boiled  carrots,  add  2  beaten  eggs,  3  tablesp  flour 
moistened  with  a  little  cream,  and  1  teasp  sugar.  Drop  by- 
spoonsful  in  hot  fat  and  fry  brown,  like  doughnuts.  Serve 
hot  and  just  before  serving  squeeze  a  little  lemon  or  orange 
juice  over  each  fritter,  and  dust  with  powdered  sugar. — [S. 
E.  W.,  O. 

Carrots  and  Peas 

Boil  1  pt  carrots  cut  in  dice,  in  enough  water  to  cover,  and 
after  10  minutes  add  1  pt  shelled  green  peas,  and  boil  all 
together  until  tender.  When  done  the  water  will  be  greatly- 
reduced.  Then  add  V2  cup  cream,  a  little  butter,  pepper  and 
salt,  and  thicken  with  a  little  corn  starch  or  flour.  Let  boil 
2  or  3  minutes  longer  and  serve. — [Mrs.  H.  H.,  Cal. 

Smothered  Carrots  and  Onions 

Cut  salt  pork  in  small  cubes  and  fry  light  brown,  then  add 
1  doz  onions,  and  as  many  tender  carrots,  cut  fine.  Season 
well  with  salt  and  pepper,  add  1  cup  water,  cover,  and  cook 
1  hour. — [Mrs.  A.  B.,  Me. 

Pickled  Carrots 

Wash  and  scrape  carrots  and  cook  in  salted  water  until 
tender,  then  cut  in  pieces  of  convenient  size,  and  cover  with 
hot  vinegar,  which  may  be  sweetened  and  spiced,  if  liked. 
Let  stand  in  this  vinegar  2  days,  before  using. — [Mrs.  L.  A. 
G.,  Me. 

Minced  Beets 

Remove  the  greens  and  wash  the  beets  clean,  but  do  not 
peel  nor  cut  off  the  root  or  stem  ends.  Plunge  into  boiling 
water  and  boil  rapidly  until  tender,  then  plunge  into  cold 
water.  The  skins  can  easily  be  slipped  off  after  this  treatment. 
Slice  or  chop,  discarding  the  coarse  and  fibrous  parts,  and  for 
1  qt  beets  allow  2  tablesp  butter,  2  tablesp  sugar,  salt  to 
taste,  and  plenty  of  pepper,  2  to  4  tablesp  vinegar,  (according 
to  taste),  and  1  cup  thin,  sweet  cream,  poured  over  just 
before  serving.     Serve  hot. — [L.  R.,  Ind. 

Creamed  Beets 

Cook  until  tender,  then  peel  and  chop  coarsely.  Add  1  cup 
cream  to  1  qt  beets,  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  A  little 
vinegar  and  sugar  may  be  added,  also  some  butter,  and  the 
creamed  beets  baked  in  the  oven  about  15  or  20  minutes.— 
tA.  E.  R.,  N.  H. 


THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK         51 


Creamed  or  Ma^ed  Turnips 

Peel  turnips,  then  cut  up  in  small  dice,  discarding  all  tough 
and  stringy  parts.  Cover  with  cold  water,  add  salt,  and  boil 
until  tender,  then  drain.  Prepare  a  cream  sauce  of  butter  and 
milk  thickened  with  a  little  flour,  add  the  boiled  diced  turnips 
with  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and  serve  at  once,  or  mash  the 
turnips  after  draining,  and  add  pepper  and  salt  and  butter  to 
taste. — [A.  G.,  Mass. 

Creamed   Parsnips 

Wash  and  scrape  parsnip,  slice  lengthwise  in  inch  pieces, 
add  boiling  water  to  cover,  salt,  and  boil  till  tender.  If  there 
is  too  much  liquid  pour  a  little  of  it  off  and  add  1  cup  milk, 
a  little  butter,  salt  and  pepper,  with  a  dash  of  sugar,  if  liked, 
and  fiour  to  thicken  a  little. — [Mrs.  E.  D.,  Ida. 

Fried  or  Baked  Parsnip 

Boil  4  large  parsnips  until  tender,  then  drain  and  mash, 
add  salt  and  pepper,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  3  beaten  eggs, 
%  cup  sweet  cream,  and  some  bread  crumbs  to  bind  together, 
and  fry  like  fritters,  or  bake  in  the  oven. —  [Mrs.  G.  McM.,  Cal. 

Steamed  Green  Peas 

Peas  should  be  picked  when  young  and  tender,  and  cooked 
as  soon  after  picking  as  possible,  or  they  will  lose  flavor  and 
sweetness.  Pill  a  cheese  cloth  bag  about  two-thirds  full  of 
the  shelled  peas,  and  place  in  a  colander,  hung  into  a  kettle 
of  boiling  water,  and  cover  closely,  but  do  not  let  the  water 
touch  the  peas.  Steam  until  done,  which  will  take  a  little 
longer  than  boiling,  but  the  peas  will  be  much  finer  and 
sweeter  in  flavor,  than  when  boiled  in  water.  When  done  add 
plenty  of  butter  and  a  little  salt,  and  serve,  at  once. — [Mrs. 
J.  I.  M.,  N.  H. 

Lima  Beans 

Fresh  lima  beans  should  be  cooked  immediately  after  gath- 
ering. Shell  and  cook  till  tender  in  water  barely  enough  t© 
cover,  allowing  most  of  the  water  to  boil  away.  Then  add 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and  1  cup  rich  sweet  cream,  or  some 
butter. — [Mrs.  L.  O.  M..  O. 

Baked  Peas 

This  is  a  good  recipe  for  the  big,  mealy  peas.  Parboil  1  qt 
ripe  peas,  then  drain,  and  put  in  a  bean  pot  with  1  lb  salt 


52  THE   ORANGE  JUDD   COOK  BOOK 


pork,  Vz  teasp  each  pepper,  salt,  sugar  and  mustard,  and  enough 
cold  water  to  cover  the  peas.  Bake  about  8  hours. —  [Mrs.  L. 
A.  G.,  Me. 

Mashed   (dried)   Peas  or  Beans 

Soak  1  qt  dried  peas  or  beans  in  plenty  water  over  night. 
Next  morning  drain  and  put  them  in  a  kettle  with  boiling 
water  and  boil  1  hour,  then  drain,  add  fresh  boiling  water, 
and  boil  3  hours,  after  which  mash  through  a  colander,  add 
butter,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and  a  little  thyme.  Serve  with 
browned  onions.  Nice  served  with  ham  and  sauerkraut.—" 
[N.  P.,  N.  H. 

To  Cook  String  Beans 

Cook  immediately  after  gathering,  wash  and  snap  in  small 
pieces  and  remove  strings  if  there  are  any.  Put  on  in  cold 
water  barely  enough  to  cover,  cover  closely,  and  cook  slowly 
until  tender,  adding  a  little  butter  or  drippings  and  salt  to 
taste.  Another  way  is  to  boil  them  with  salt  pork.  Do  not 
use  any  more  water  than  necessary. — [A.  G.,  Mass. 

Baked    Beans 

Soak  1  qt  white  beans  in  cold  water  over  night  (15  or  16 
hours  is  none  too  long).  Next  morning  drain,  cover  with  cold 
water,  boil  V2  hour,  then  add  a  pinch  of  soda,  and  let  boil, 
uncovered,  until  skins  crack;  then  drain.  Meanwhile  boil 
y2  or  %  lb  salt  pork  about  20  minutes,  then  cut  deep  gashes 
crisscross  in  the  top  fat  of  the  pork,  and  put  the  pork  and 
the  parboiled  beans  in  a  bean  pot,  so  that  the  cut  pork  will 
be  even  with  the  top  of  the  beans;  also  put  1  small  onion, 
peeled,  in  with  the  beans.  In  a  large  cup  mix  i/^  teasp  ground 
mustard,  1  teasp  salt,  and  V2  teasp  pepper,  with  V2  cup  molas- 
ses (or  less),  thinned  with  some  of  the  liquor  in  which  the  pork 
was  cooked,  pour  over  the  beans,  (the  liquid  should  almost 
come  to  the  top  of  beans),  and  bake  slowly  about  8  hours. 
Tomato  juice  can  be  added  instead  of  meat  liquor.  The  bean 
pot  should  be  of  earthenware,  and  deep.  If  the  liquid  evap- 
orates too  rapidly,  add  a  very  little  hot  water  from  time  to 
time.  During  the  last  half  hour  increase  the  heat  so  that  the 
top  of  the  beans  and  the  pork  may  brown  nicely.  Long  soak- 
ing in  cold  water  and  long,  slow  baking  are  essential  to  suc- 
cess.—  [A.  G.,  Mass. 

Stuffed  Cucumbers 

Peel  large  cucumbers,  cut  in  half  lengthwise,  and  remove 
seeds  and  soft  pulp.     Prepare  a  filling  of  1  cup  each  minced 


THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK         53 


cold  chicken  and  bread  crumbs,  1  teasp  each  minced  parsnip 
and  onion,  1  tablesp  melted  butter,  2  tablesp  cream,  and  salt 
and  pepper  to  taste.  If  filling  seems  too  stiff,  add  more 
cream.  Pack  this  filling  heaping  full  into  the  cucumber  boats. 
Place  side  by  side  in  a  baking  dish,  and  pour  around  them 
some  well  seasoned  stock  or  gravy,  or  a  little  hot  water  and 
butter.  Cover  and  bake  Vz  hour,  then  uncover  and  brown. 
Remove  the  cucumbers  to  a  heated  platter,  thicken  the  gravy 
in  the  pan  with  a  little  browned  flour,  pour  around  the  cucum- 
bers, and  serve  at  once. —  [Mrs.  E.  E.  S.,  Pa. 

Fried  or  Baked  Squash 

Peel  tender  squash,  cut  in  strips  as  long  and  thick  as  the 
finger,  sprinkle  with  pepper  and  salt,  roll  in  flour,  and  fry 
brown  in  hot  drippings,  then  cover  and  cook  slowly  until 
tender. —  [E.  E.  K.,  Me. 

Peel  a  round  squash,  cut  a  piece  from  the  stem  end,  and 
remove  the  seeds  and  stuff  the  cavity  with  a  filling  made  of 
bread  crumbs,  hard  boiled  eggs,  cold  ham,  or  some  other  kind 
of  meat,  and  1  beaten  egg.  Dot  the  top  with  butter,  return 
the  cover  to  the  squash,  put  in  baking  pan  with  just  enough 
water  to  keep  from  burning,  and  bake  until  tender.  Squash 
is  also  nice  cooked  with  a  roast  of  meat,  same  as  potatoes. — * 
[Mrs.  P.  J.  S.,  Tex. 

Escalloped   Squash 

Peel,  remove  seeds,  and  boil  and  mash  squash.  When  cool 
add  2  beaten  eggs,  ^  cup  milk,  butter,  and  pepper  and  salt 
to  taste.  Pour  into  a  buttered  baking  dish,  cover  with  bread 
crumbs,  dot  with  butter,  and  bake.     Serve  hot. —  [M.  B.,  111. 

Cooked  Celery 

Trim  and  cut  celery  stalks  in  small  pieces,  reserving  the 
tender  inner  parts  to  serve  raw,  and  the  greens  for  soup. 
Boil  until  tender  in  no  more  water  than  necessary,  then  season 
with  salt  and  pepper,  add  butter  and  milk,  and  slightly  thicken 
the  gravy  with  a  little  flour. —  [Mrs.  J.  L.  R.,  O. 

Celeriac 

Not  all  housewives  are  acquainted  with  the  turnip-rooted 
celery,  or  celeriac,  which  is  generally  used  for  soups  and 
stews.  Here  is  another  way.  Pare  and  slice  the  root,  add  a 
medium  sized  onion,  sliced  thin,  and  boil  till  tender,  then 
add  a  cream  sauce,  and  let  simmer  on  back  of  the  range  a 
few  minutes,  until  ready  to  serve. —  [Miss  M.  W.,  Mass. 


54  THE   ORANGE   JUDD   COOK  BOOK 


To  Cook  Asparagus 

Tlie  usual  way  is  to  cook  asparagus  uncut,  in  water  to  cover, 
but  in  this  way  you  are  obliged  to  cook  the  tender  beads  just 
as  long  as  the  tough  stalks.  This  is  my  way:  Cut  off  all  the 
tops  and  an  inch  or  so  of  the  tender  top  stalk,  and  lay  these 
aside,  then  peel  the  bottom  stalks,  cut  in  one-inch  lengths,  and 
stew  slowly  %  hour,  adding  a  small  pinch  of  soda,  then  add 
the  tops  and  boil  10  or  15  minutes  longer.  Season  with  pepper 
and  salt,  and  add  butter  and  cream.^[Mrs.  C.  J.,  Ct. 

Egg  Plant  Ways 

Peel  egg  plant  and  cut  in  slices  i/^-inch  thick,  sprinkle 
lightly  with  salt  and  let  stand  V2  hour,  after  which  dip  them 
in  beaten  egg,  then  in  flour,  and  fry  brown  on  both  sides. — 
[Miss  A.  E.  H.,  Pa. 

Cut  egg  plants  in  half,  scrape  out  the  inside  and  put  in  a 
saucepan  with  2  tablesp  minced  ham,  water  to  cover,  and  boil 
until  soft  then  drain,  add  2  tablesp  bread  crumbs,  1  tablesp 
butter,  1/^  an  onion,  minced,  V2  teasp  salt,  and  a  dash  of 
pepper.  Stuff  each  half  of  the  egg  plant  with  this  mixture, 
top  oft  with  1  teasp  butter,  and  bake  15  minutes. — [Mrs.  K. 
R.  P.,  Tex. 

Pare  and  cut  an  egg  plant  in  slices  %-inch  thick,  cover 
with  water,  add  a  little  salt,  and  stew  until  tender.  Then 
drain,  mash  with  a  fork,  add  2  beaten  eggs,  4  tablesp  sweet 
cream,  a  small  pinch  cayenne  pepper,  and  flour  enough  to  make 
a  batter  that  will  drop  from  a  spoon,  sifted  with  1  teasp 
baking  powder.  Drop  by  spoonsful  into  hot  lard  or  drippings, 
and  fry  brown  on  both  sides.  Serve  with  powdered  sugar. — 
[Mrs.  J.  J.  R. 

Boiled  or  Fried  Rutabaga 

Peel  and  slice  rutabaga,  add  water  to  cover,  salt  and  pepper, 
1  tablesp  lard,  and  a  small  pinch  soda.  Cook  until  tender, 
then  remove  cover^  and  fry  brown. —  [C.  O.,  N.  D. 

Peel  and  slice  rutabaga  i/^-inch  thick,  and  boil  in  slightly 
salted  water  until  tender;  then  drain,  roll  in  flour,  and  fry  in  hot 
drippings,  adding  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. —  [Mrs.  L.  S.,  Minn. 

Baked  Salsify  or  Oyster  Plant 

Scrape  and  slice  the  salsify  and  cook  till  tender  in  slightly 
salted  water.  Then  put  in  buttered  baking  pan  alternate  layers 
of  bread  crumbs  and  salsify,  seasoning  each  layer  with  salt, 
pepper  and  butter.  Fill  the  pan  half  full  of  sweet  milk,  and 
then  add  sweet  cream  until  nearly  full.  Cover  the  top  with 
bread  crumbs,  and  dot  with  butter.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven.  A 
very  little  sugar  added  to  the  salsify  is  liked  by  some. — [Mrs. 
G.  G.,  Mo. 


THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK         g5 

Stewed    Radishes 

WaBh  and  scrape  3  or  4  bunches  white  radishes,  cut  in 
small  pieces,  cover  with  water,  add  a  little  salt  and  sugar,  boil 
until  tender,  then  drain,  mash  and  add  a  little  butter  and 
cream.    We  like  this  better  than  turnips. — [Mrs.  P.  H.  J.,  Ore. 

Stuffed    Peppers 

Remove  seeds  from  6  large,  sweet  peppers.  Put  over  the 
fire  in  cold  water,  bring  to  the  boiling  point,  and  then  drain. 
Repeat  this  twice.  Prepare  a  filling  of  1  cup  each  boiled  rice, 
cold  meat,  chopped  fine,  and  tomatoes,  cut  fine,  and  V2  cup 
bread  crumbs.  Season  with  salt,  pepper  and  onion.  Fill  the 
parboiled  peppers  with  this  mixture,  sprinkle  the  tops  with 
bread  crumbs,  and  dot  with  butter.  Bake  in  brisk  oven  % 
hour.  Another  way  is  to  cut  the  parboiled  peppers  in  slices, 
dip  in  a  batter  and  fry  brown  on  both  sides. —  [Mrs.  D.  D. 
P.,  Cuba. 

Creamed  Raw  Cabbage 

Select  a  solid  and  tender  head  of  young  cabbage  and  shave 
fine.  Make  a  cream  sauce  of  ^/^  cup  thick,  sweet,  or  sour 
cream,  1  tablesp  sugar,  1  or  2  tablesp  vinegar,  and  2  tablesp 
fresh  fried  ham  drippings.  Beat  this  until  foamy,  then  pour 
over  the  shaved  cabbage,  adding  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Nice 
to  serve  with  roast  pork  and  mashed  potatoes. — [Mrs.  P.  B., 
N.  Y. 

Escalloped  Cabbage 

Trim  a  nice,  tender  head  of  cabbage,  cut  in  quarters,  and 
cook  in  slightly  salted  water  about  20  minutes,  then  drain, 
chop  fine,  and  mix  with  a  dressing  made  of  4  tablesp  butter, 
creamed  with  4  tablesp  flour,  and  1  qt  hot  milk,  stirring  con- 
stantly, and  when  the  flour  is  done  add  6  hard-boiled  eggs, 
chopped  fine,  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Turn  the  cabbage 
and  cream  mixture  into  a  buttered  baking  pan,  sprinkle  the 
top  with  bits  of  butter  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  about  15  min- 
utes.— [Mrs.  H.  J.  H.,  Col. 

Stuflfed   Cabbage 

Trim  off  the  outer  leaves  and  remove  the  heart  from  a  fine 
head  of  tender  young  cabbage,  so  as  to  leave  a  shell  of  cabbage 
about  1  inch  thick.  Fill  the  cavity  with  cold,  chopped  chicken, 
veal,  pork  or  beef,  mixed  with  a  little  cold  chopped  potatoes, 
if  liked,  also  the  beaten  yolk  of  an  egg,  and  seasoned  well  with 
salt  and  pepper.  Cover  with  several  crisp  cabbage  leaves  well 
tucked  in  at  the  top,  tie  in  cheese  cloth,  and  boil  2  hours. — • 
[Mrs.  J.  D.  C,  Cal.     . 


56  THE   ORANGE  JUDD   COOK  BOOK 


Stewed  Red  Cabbage 

Trim  a  small  head  of  red  cabbage  and  shavo  -^ne.  Put  into 
a  granite  kettle  1  heaping  tablesp  lard  or  drippings,  and  when 
hot  put  in  the  shaved  cabbage,  and  a  small  onion  pierced  with 
3  or  4  whole  cloves,  1  teasp  salt,  1  tablesp  sugar,  %  cup 
boiling  water,  and  scant  i/4  cup  vinegar.  Cover  closely  and 
Btew  slowly  about  2  hours,  stirring  often  to  prevent  scorching.  If 
it  seems  to  get  too  dry  add  a  little  more  boiling  water.  White 
cabbage  may  be  prepared  the  same  way,  omitting  the  cloves 
and  sugar,  and  adding  Yz  teasp  caraway  seeds,  if  that  flavor 
is  liked.— [Mrs.  G.,  Wis. 

Hot  Slaw 

Put  some  drippings  into  a  deep  frying  pan,  and  when  hot 
add  finely  shaved  raw  cabbage,  and  mix  thoroughly.  When 
the  fat  has  become  well  mixed  with  the  cabbage,  cover  the 
pan  closely  and  set  on  the  side  of  the  range  to  simmer  slowly 
until  tender.  The  steam  will  furnish  suflicient  moisture,  but 
if  there  is  danger  of  scorching,  add  a  very  little  hot  water. 
About  15  minutes  before  serving  add  pepper,  salt  and  vinegar 
to  taste. —  [A.  G.,  Mass. 

Stewed  Cauliflower 

Select  a  nice,  fresh  head  of  cauliflower,  break  it  apart,  trim 
the  stem  ends  carefully,  and  let  stand  a  few  minutes  in  cold, 
slightly  salted  water,  then  drain  and  put  in  a  granite  stew  pan 
with  cold,  slightly  salted  water,  and  let  boil  till  tender.  It 
is  a  good  plan  to  tie  the  cauliflower  in  a  net,  so  that  it  can  be 
lifted  out  of  the  boiling  water  when  done,  without  breaking 
the  flower.  Prepare  a  cream  sauce  of  milk  and  butter,  thicken 
with  a  little  flour,  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  A  beaten 
egg,  may  be  added,  if  liked.  Pour  this  over  the  cauliflower, 
and  serve  at  once. — [Mrs.  M.  M.  B.,  Mo. 

To  Cook  Sauerkraut 

Wash  sauerkraut  in  cold  water  to  freshen  just  right  to 
taste,  then  put  on  1  qt  saukerkraut  with  %  cup  lard  or  drip- 
pings and  a  little  water  to  prevent  scorching.  Cover  closely  and 
stew  slowly  until  tender,  adding  a  very  little  hot  water  if 
necessary.  It  is  a  mistake  to  wash  the  sauerkraut  too  much 
or  to  parboil  it  as  this  leaves  nothing  but  a  wilted,  tasteless 
mass.  Plenty  of  fat  and  slow  boiling  are  necessary.  Serve 
^ith  boiled  or  roast  pork,  and  mashed  potatoes. — [A.  G.,  Mass. 


Showing  Layers  of  Checkerboard  Cake 


Checkerboard  Cake.      [See  recipe  on  page  257.] 


THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK         57 


Creamed    Onions 

Take  young  onions  before  they  are  full  grown,  cut  off  tops 
and  roots,  peel,  and  boil  in  slightly  salted  water  until  tender; 
then  drain.  Make  a  cream  sauce  of  milk,  butter  and  beaten 
egg,  thickened  with  a  little  flour,  and  seasoned  with  salt  and 
pepper.  Cook  until  smooth,  and  then  pour  over  the  boiled 
onions.  When  the  onions  are  older  and  stronger,  the  first 
water,  after  boiling  5  minutes,  should  be  poured  off  and  the 
onions  boiled  in  fresh  water  until  tender. —  [Mrs.  G.  W.,  N.  Co 

Fried  Spring  Onions 

Fry  a  few  slices  of  bacon  or  salt  pork  until  well  browned, 
then  remove  from  the  pan  and  put  into  the  hot  fat  green 
onions,  cut  up  into  inch  lengths.  When  the  onions  are  well 
fried  push  them  to  one  side  of  the  pan  and  add  about  1 
tablesp  flour  to  the  gravy,  and  when  smooth  add  1  pt  boiling 
water.     Mix  well,  boil  1  minute,  then  serve. —  [Mrs.  H,  L.,  Va. 

Baked  Onions 

Peel  large  onions  and  boil  1  hour  in  slightly  salted  water, 
th-en  drain  and  put  them  in  a  shallow  buttered  baking  dish, 
sprinkle  with  pepper  and  salt,  dot  each  onion  with  butter, 
pour  a  little  milk  in  the  pan,  cover  the  onions  with  bread 
crumbs,  and  bake  slowly  1  hour.  Another  way  is  to  put 
alternate  layers  of  onions  and  bread  crumbs  in  a  pudding  dish, 
season  with  pepper,  salt,  and  butter,  and  moisten  with  milk. — » 
[N.  P.,  N.  H. 

Onion  GraTy 

Peel  and  slice  fine  2  onions  and  let  them  simmer  in  a  pan 
with  3  or  4  tablesp  lard  or  drippings,  until  tender,  taking  care 
not  to  burn.  Then  add  2  or  3  level  tablesp  flour,  salt  and  pepper 
to  taste,  and  2  cups  milk.  Let  come  to  a  boil,  then  add  1 
well-beaten  egg. —  [Mrs.  H.  A.  S.,  Ala. 

Boiled  or  Baked  Spinach 

Pick  and  wash  spinach  carefully  and  boil  aoout  15  or  20 
minutes.  It  will  require  very  little  water,  if  any,  as  greens 
boil  down  very  much,  and  the  water  which  clings  to  the  leaves 
after  washing  is  almost  enough  to  cook  them.  When  done 
pour  in  a  colander  to  drain,  chop  lightly,  and  pick  out  all  the 
tough  stem  ,parts.  Return  to  the  kettle  with  butter  and  salt 
and  pepper  to  taste,  or  use  the  frying  fat  from  ham.  Heat 
thoroughly  and  serve  at  once  with  a  garnish  of  hard-boiled 
eggs,  sliced.     Another  way  is  to  put  the  boiled  spinach  in  a 


58         THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK 


buttered  baking  dish,  slice  the  hard-boiled  eggs  on  top,  cover 
with  a  cream  sauce,  sprinkle  with  grated  cheese,  and  pepper 
and  salt,  then  with  a  layer  of  bread  crumbs,  dot  with  bits  of 
butter,  and  bake  until  brown. —  [A.  G.,  Mass. 

Dandelion,   Cowslip,  and  Dock 

The  leaves,  stalks  and  buds  of  cowslips  can  be  used.  Wash 
and  pick  over  carefully,  parboil  about  10  minutes  in  boiling 
water,  to  which  add  V2  teasp  soda,  then  drain,  and  boil  until 
tender  with  some  lean  salt  pork.  Just  before  serving,  add 
vinegar,  salt  and  pepper.  Dandelions  should  be  picked  before 
blossoming  time.  Wash,  and  discard  the  little  stems  or 
buds  that  would  turn  to  blossoms,  boil  until  tender,  then  drain 
and  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  butter.  Use  the  leaves  only 
of  narrow  dock,  and  prepare  the  same  as  cowslips.  The  addi- 
tion of  a  few  horseradish  leaves  is  an  improvement. — [Mrs. 
G.  M.  N.,  N.  Y. 

Swiss  Chard 

When  the  leaves  are  large  and  plenty  of  stalk  or  stem, 
strip  the  leaves  from  the  stems,  and  treat  the  latter  as  follows: 
Cut  in  short  pieces  and  cook  with  a  very  little  water  until  the 
stalks  are  tender  and  the  water  has  almost  all  boiled  away. 
Then  pour  over  as  much  milk  as  you  want  soup,  bring  to  a 
boil,  thicken  with  a  little  cornstarch,  add  1  or  2  well-beaten 
eggs,  with  seasoning  to  taste.  This  tastes  like  oyster  soup. 
The  greens  can  be  boiled  the  same  as  spinach. — [Mrs.  C.  I.  D., 
Cal. 

Beet  Greenis 

Cut  %  lb  cold  boiled  ham  in  dice  and  fry  in  1  tablesp  butter 
with  V2  an  onion  minced  fine,  then  add  2  tablesp  hot  vinegar, 
and  pour  this  sauce  over  beet  greens  which  were  boiled  in  hot 
salted  water  until  tender,  and  then  drained  and  chopped  fine. 
Serve  hot  with  poached  eggs  on  top  of  the  greens. — [Mrs.  C. 
J.  M.,  Neb. 

Okra  Ways 

Cut  the  stems  from  1  qt  okra  and  cut  the  pods  into  pieces 
%  inch  thick;  add  1  pt  tomatoes,  and  1  cup  corn  cut  from  the 
cob,  and  cook  until  tender.  Season  with  butter,  salt  and  pep- 
per. Another  way  is  to  take  the  small  tender  pods  of  okra, 
Btem  and  wash,  and  while  wet,  roll  in  flour,  sprinkle  with  salt 
and  fry  in  hot  fat.  For  a  stew  put  the  okra  on  with  enough 
hot  water  to  cover,  and  when  well  done,  drain,  and  season 
to  taste  with  pepper,  salt,  butter  and  vinegar. — [A.  G.,  Mass, 


THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK         59 


Gumbo  is  made  by  taking  equal  quantities  of  young  okra 
chopped  fine,  ripe  tomatoes  peeled  and  chopped,  1  or  2  onions, 
minced,  a  lump  of  butter,  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Add 
1  or  2  tablesp  water  if  necessary,  and  stew  until  tender. — 
[Mrs.  P.  A.  D.,  111. 

This  is  the  way  I  prepare  okra.  To  1  qt  okra  add  1  qt 
tomatoes,  6  onions,  3  green  peppers,  and  3  or  4  slices  of  bacon. 
Boil  until  done,  season  with  salt  and  pepper. —  [P.  J.  S.,  Tex. 

Peel  onions  under  water  to  prevent  the  shedding  of  teafs. 
To  kill  onion  and  cabbage  odor  while  cooking,  set  a  small, 
open  dish  of  vinegar  on.  the  back  of  the  stove. — [A.  G.,  Mass. 

Salad   Garnishes 

A.lmost  anything  in  the  line  of  fresh  greens,  potatoes,  vege- 
tables, fruits,  fish,  meat,  nuts,  etc.,  can  be  dished  up  as  salad 
and  make  a  very  presentable  as  well  as  palatable  dish,  with 
the  aid  of  a  nice  salad  dressing  and  garnishes.  It  is  well  to 
have  some  prepared  salad  dressing  always  ready  to  hand — 
stored  in  glass  fruit  jars  it  will  keep  some  time  in  a  cool  place. 
If  too  thick,  thin  with  cream.  For  garnishes  use  crisp  leaves 
of  lettuce,  parsley,  or  celery,  slices  of  lemon,  red  beets  cut  in 
fancy  shapes,  radishes,  hard-boiled  eggs,  slices  of  cucumber,  or 
small  pickles  cut  in  half  lengthwise.  The  ingenious  cook  with 
an  eye  to  the  beautiful  can  easily  convert  whatever  material 
she  may  happen  to  have  at  hand  to  decorative  purposes. 


Salad  Dressings 

French  Dressing:  To  ^  teasp  salt  add  %  teasp  pepper,  a 
few  grains  of  cayenne,  a  very  little  mustard,  6  tablesp  olive  oil, 
and  3  to  6  tablesp  lemon  juice  or  vinegar,  according  to  taste. 
Put  together  in  the  order  named,  adding  the  oil  and  vinegar 
gradually,  and  beating  well,  until  all  the  ingredients  are  well 
combined.  A  little  onion  juice  may  be  added,  if  liked. — [A. 
G.,  Mass. 

Cream  Dressing:  Mix  well  together  ^  cup  each  sour  cream, 
sugar  and  vinegar,  with  a  dash  of  salt,  using  a  little  more  sugar 
if  the  cream  and  vinegar  are  very  sour,  or  diluting  the  latter 
with  a  very  little  water.     Nice  for  lettuce. — [E.  L.,  Neb. 

Cabbage  Dressing:  Boil  together  a  few  minutes  %  cup  each 
sugar  and  vinegar,  and  V2  tablesp  butter,  then  add  1  cup  sour 
cream  and  1  beaten  egg,  and  boil  a  few  minutes  longer.  Let 
get  cold. — [L.  P.,  111. 


60         THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK 


Boiled  Dressing:  Mix  well  together  and  boil  5  minutes: 
1  beaten  egg,  1  level  teasp  each  salt  and  mustard,  2  teasp  sugar, 
1  tablesp  each  butter  and  vinegar,  and  %  cup  sour  cream. — 
[Mrs.  E.  A.,  N.  H. 

Piquant  Dressing:  Rub  together  %  cup  butter  and  1  heap- 
ing tablesp  flour,  add  2  tablesp  sugar,  1  teasp  salt,  ^A  teasp 
each  mustard  and  pepper,  and  a  dash  of  cayenne  pepper,  and 
when  creamy  gradually  add  1  cup  warm  vinegar,  and  cook 
slowly  until  it  thickens.  Will  keep  a  long  time.  Nice  for 
any  salad.— [Mrs.  W.  A.  M.,  O. 

Egg  Dressing:  Mix  together  2  tablesp  sugar,  1  tablesp  corn- 
starch, 1%  teasp  mustard  and  V2  teasp  salt.  Heat  1  pt  milk 
to  the  boiling  point,  add  2  tablesp  butter,  stir  in  2  beaten  eggs 
with  the  above  dry  ingredients,  and  lastly  add  1  cup  vinegar. 
Beat  and  stir  well  to  prevent  curdling  while  cooking.  Will 
thicken  like  custard.  When  cold  put  in  glass  fruit  jar. —  [Mrs. 
M.  M.,  Wis. 

Mustard  Dressing:     Mix  well  1  cup  sugar,    %   cup  flour,  1 

teasp  salt,  and  V2  lb  mustard.  Rub  to  a  smooth  paste  with  a 
little  cold  vinegar,  then  add  gradually  the  remainder  of  3 
pts  vinegar,  heated  to  boiling  point,  and  cook  5  minutes. 
Should  be  the  consistency  of  thick  cream. — [L.  P.,  Neb. 

Mayonnaise  Dressing:  Mix  together  %  teasp  each  salt  and 
mustard  and  1  teasp  powdered  sugar,  add  the  raw  yolks  of  2 
eggs,  and  V2  teasp  vinegar,  then,  drop  by  drop,  %  cup  olive 
oil,  stirring  vigorously,  and  as  the  mixture  thickens,  add 
gradually,  alternating  with  the  oil,  1  tablesp  each  vinegar  and 
lemon  juice.  Have  all  ingredients  cold  and  beat  the  mixture 
constantly. — [Mrs.  D.  W.  R.,  Mich. 

Boiled  Mayonnaise:  Beat  2  raw  eggs,  add  2  tablesp  each 
sugar  and  butter,  ^2  teasp  mustard,  ^  teasp  salt,  a  little  white 
pepper,  and  8  tablesp  vinegar.  Boil  until  it  thickens,  stirring 
constantly.  Nice  for  vegetable  salad.  For  fruit  salad  use 
more  sugar  and  dilute  the  vinegar  with  water.  Thin  with 
cream  when  ready  to  use.  Adding  whipped  cream  makes  it 
nice   and   fluffy. — [Mrs.    J.   W.   Van   B.,   Wis. 

Potato  Salad 

Tha  potatoes  must  be  cold,  and  not  too  soft  or  mealy.  Cut 
in  dice  or  slices.  Add  a  little  finely  minced  onion,  if  liked, 
and  if  obtainable,  crisp,  tender  celery,  cut  fine.  Use  any  pre- 
ferred dressing — French  or  mayonnaise,  and  garnish  dish  with 
a  "frill"  of  lettuce  leaves,  inside  of  that  a  "chain"  of  sliced, 
hard-boiled  eggs,  then  cubes  or  diamonds  of  red  beets,  varied 
with  tiny  tips  of  parsley,  and  a  few  slices  of  cucumber,  pickles, 
or  lemon. — [A.  G.,  Mass. 


THE   ORANGE   JUDD   COOK  BOOK  61 


Cabbage  Salad 

Shave  about  1  qt  white  cabbage  and  sprinkle  lightly  with 
salt.  Cut  ^  lb  smoked  ham  in  dice,  and  fry  brown  and  crisp; 
then  add  V2  cup  cider  vinegar  and  when  thoroughly  heated 
through  turn  over  the  shaved  cabbage,  to  which  has  been  added 
1  finely  minced  onion;  add  pepper  to  taste.  Another  way  is 
to  use  half  cabbage  and  half  cold  boiled  potatoes,  or  half  cab- 
bage and  half  celery,  with  any  preferred  cold  dressing. — * 
[Mrs.  F.  B.,  N.  Y. 

Vegetable    Salad 

For  this»  all  sorts  of  mixed  vegetables  can  be  used,  such  as 
boiled  peas,  beans,  beets,  carrots,  potatoes,  raw  cucumbers,  to- 
matoes, cabbage,  celery,  onions,  and  even  a  few  tart  apples. 
Use  any  preferred  dressing,  serve  on  a  platter  of  lettuce 
leaves,  and  garnish  with  hard-boiled  eggs.  Exact  quantities 
cannot  be  given — the  skill  of  the  cook  must  be  called  into  play, 
for  the  "blending"  is  a  nice  art. — [A.  G.,  Mass. 

Meat    Salad 

Chicken,  turkey,  ham,  veal — in  fact,  any  boiled  meat  can  be 
made  up  into  nice  salads.  Trim  and  cut  up  in  small  pieces, 
add  potatoes  and  celery,  or  cabbage,  or  cucumbers,  also  cut 
in  small  pieces,  mix  with  any  preferred  dressing  and  garnish 
with  lettuce,  pickles  and  hard-boiled  eggs. — [A.   G.,  Mass. 

Fish  Salad 

Salmon,  herring,  sardines,  or  almost  any  fish,  also  crabs  and 
lobsters,  make  excellent  salad.  Mix  with  chopped  cabbage, 
celery,  cucumbers  or  pickles,  hard-boiled  eggs  and  potatoes,  all 
cut  to  uniform  size,  and  use  any  preferred  dressing  and  gar- 
nish. A  nice  herring  salad  is  made  as  follows.  Soak  1  doz 
salt  herrings  in  water  over  night,  and  next  morning  wash  again 
and  cut  fine,  add  1  doz  large,  tart  apples  and  V2  doz  large, 
white  onions,  3  lbs  boiled  veal  or  chicken,  scant  Vz  cup  sugar, 
1  tabiesp  salt,  1  teasp  pepper,  and  vinegar  to  taste.  Let  stand 
a  few  hours. — [A.  H.,  Wis. 

Egg     Salads 

Hard-boiled  eggs,  cut  in  half,  each  part  served  on  a  crisp 
lettuce  leaf,  with  a  spoonful  of  mustard  dressing,  is  one  way 
of  serving  them.  Another  way  is  to  take  out  the  yolks,  after 
boiling  and  cutting  in  half  lengthwise,  and  mix  same  with 
some  minced  sardines,  ham  or  chicken,  seasoning  to  taste,  and 
return  to  the  white  boats,  with  a  spoonful  of  dressing  on  each. 
[A.  G.,  Mass. 


62         THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK 


Tomato  Salad. 

Sliced  tomatoes  and  cucumbers  make  a  nice  salad,  witli  a 
French  dressing.  Should  be  served  immediately  after  mixing, 
and  be  real  cold.  Another  way  is  to  peel  ripe  tomatoes  with 
a  sharp  knife,  cut  a  slice  off  stem  end,  carefully  scoop  out  the 
pulp,  and  mix  same  with  chopped  cucumbers  and  a  dressing, 
and  return  to  the  tomato  shells. — [A.  G.,  Mass. 

Wilted   or   Dutch   Lettuce 

Trim  and  clean  and  break  apart  2  or  3  crisp  heads  of 
lettuce,  slice  in  4  or  5  green  onions  with  the  tender  stalks,  2 
or  3  boiled  potatoes,  2  or  3  hard-boiled  eggs,  and  sprinkle  with 
salt  and  pepper.  Cut  about  2  oz  fat  salt  pork  in  small  cubes 
and  fry  crisp,  then  add  1  cup  vinegar,  let  it  boil  up  and  pour 
it  over  the  lettuce  mixture  and  mix  well  with  a  wooden  fork 
and  spoon.  Tender  young  dandelion  greens  can  be  used  the 
same  way. — [Mrs.  G.  M.  N.,  N.  Y. 

Waldorf  Salad 

Chop  or  cut  fine  1  bunch  of  tender,  crisp  celery,  the  same 
Quantity  of  fine  flavored  apples,  add  1  cup  walnut  meats,  cut 
small  (or  any  other  nuts,  even  chestnuts,  boiled)  and  mix  with 
any  preferred  salad  dressing.  This  is  most  delicious. — [A.  G., 
Mass. 

Banana  Salad 

Take  large,  ripe  bananas,  peel  and  cut  in  half  lengthwise. 
Allow  one  piece  for  each  person,  and  place  on  crisp  lettuce 
leaf.  Put  2  tablesp  ground  salted  peanuts  on  the  banana,  and 
cover  all  with  a  thick  mayonnaise  dressing,  containing  but  little 
mustard,  but  plenty  cream.     Delicious. — [E.  M.  B.,  Mich. 

Fruit  Salads 

Almost  an  unlimited  variety  of  delicious  fruit  salads  may  be 
made  in  combination  with  the  following  foundation:  Soak  1 
tablesp  clear  granulated  gelatine  in  1  cup  cold  water  and  add 
1  cup  sugar.  If  you  have  fruit  juice  of  any  kind  on  hand,  put 
1  pt  over  fire  to  heat  to  the  boiling  point,  and  pour  on  the 
soaked  gelatine,  and  stir  until  dissolved.  If  you  have  no  fruit 
juice,  use  water,  then  pour  over  the  fruit  and  put  in  a  cool 
place  to  harden.  Delicious  frait  combinations  are:  Oranges, 
bananas  and  pineapple,  or  grated  pineapple  alone,  or  grated 
pineapple  and  chopped  nuts,  or  canned  cherries  alone,  or 
canned  peaches,  canned  pears,  and  pineapple,  or  pineapple  and 
strawberries,  or  any  combination  of  the  above,  and  canned 
apricots,  raspberries,  or  indeed,  any  fruit.  I  save  the  juices 
from  canned  fruits  when  I  make  pies,  to  use  to  dissolve  the 
gelatine,  or  when  canned  fruits  are  used  for  the  salad,  pour 
off  the  juice  and  use  it  in  this  way.  Serve  fruit  salad  with 
whipped  cream. — [Mrs.  C.  W.  K.,  111. 


PaddiitfSs,  Gustards  and  Sweet  Sauces 

HEN  fruit  is  plentiful  puddings  appear 
often  as  dessert  on  well  supplied  farm 
tables,  and  at  all  seasons  puddings,  when 
well  made  and  not  too  rich,  afford  whole- 
some and  favorite  variety  to  the  daily  bill 
of  fare.  Every  cook  will  surely  be  able  to 
find  among  the  following  extensive  collection  of 
recipes  something  to  suit  her  culinary  resources  and  the 
family  taste.  The  same  recipes  can  frequently  be  used  by 
substituting  some  other  fruit,  or  varying  the  flavor.  There 
are  tricks  in  all  trades,  and  a  clever  cook  can  manage  to 
make  occasional  changes  to  suit  herself,  without  impairing 
the  result. 

Apple  Pudding 

To  1  cup  cream  add  1  beaten  egg,  2  teasp  baking  powder, 
and  a  little  salt  sifted  with  flour  enough  to  make  a  thick  bat- 
ter. Lastly  stir  in  about  ^^  doz  large  apples  chopped  fine. 
Bake  in  moderate  oven.  The  hardest  winter  apples  can  be 
used  as  long  as  they  are  chopped  fine  enough  and  the  pudding 
is  baked  slowly.  Sour  cream  and  1  teasp  soda  can  be  used  if 
preferred,  in  that  case  omitting  baking  powder.  Serve  with  a 
sweet  sauce. — [Mrs.  I.  M.  C,  Wash. 

Crab  Apple  Pudding 

Core  the  apples  and  stew  until  soft  in  a  syrup  made  of  sugar 
and  water.  Do  not  have  more  syrup  than  the  apples  will  take 
up,  but  be  careful  not  to  let  the  latter  burn.  When  they  are 
done,  put  them  in  a  buttered  pudding  dish,  and  if  they  are  not 
quite  sweet  enough,  add  sugar  to  taste.  Make  a  soft  batter  of 
1  pt  flour,  2  teasp  baking  powder,  and  milk.  Turn  this  over 
the  apples,  cover  the  dish,  and  steam  about  1%  hours.  Serve 
with  cream.  Another  good  way  is  to  cover  the  apples  with  a 
thick  custard  made  of  milk,  egg  yolks,  cornstarch  and  sugar, 
using  the  whites  to  make  a  meringue  for  the  top. — [N.  P.,  N.  H. 

Dutch  Apple  Pudding 

Make  a  stiff  batter  of  2  cups  flour  sifted  with  2  teasp  baking 
powder,  %  cup  butter,  1  egg,  1  scant  cup  milk,  2  tablesp  sugar, 

63 


64         THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK 


and  a  little  salt.  Pour  in  a  shallow,  buttered  pudding  dish,  cut 
apples  in  small  pieces  and  press  into  top  of  batter,  sprinkle  over 
with  sugar  and  cinnamon,  and  bake  about  30  minutes.  Serve 
with  cream  and  sugar. — [Mrs.  E.  E.  S.,  Pa. 

Apple  Slump 

Pare,  quarter  and  core  about  Vz  doz  tart  apples,  and  place 
them  in  a  shallow  buttered  granite  pudding  dish.  Pour  over 
them  1  scant  cup  water,  add  the  grated  rind  and  juice  of  1 
lemon,  1  cup  sugar,  and  butter  the  size  of  a  small  egg.  Place 
in  a  hot  oven  and  then  make  a  rich  cream  biscuit  crust.  Cut 
in  small  rounds  with  a  tin  box  about  size  of  a  50-cent  piece, 
or  if  you  have  no  such  cutter  handy,  pinch  off  little  pieces  of 
the  dough,  flatten  with  the  hands,  and  lay  these  little  biscuits 
over  the  apples,  closely  together,  but  not  overlapping.  Cover 
the  pudding  dish,  and  when  the  pudding  is  nearly  done,  remove 
the  cover  to  brown  the  biscuits.  Serve  hot  with  cream  or  any 
perf erred  sauce. — [Mrs.  K.  C,  Mo. 

Baked  Apple  Roll 

Make  a  dough  of  1  qt  flour,  1  teasp  salt,  2  teasp  baking  pow- 
der, 2  tablesp  butter,  and  1  pt  milk.  Roll  out  about  %  inch 
thick,  and  spread  with  chopped  apples.  Roll  up  and  pinch  the 
ends  together  to  prevent  the  juice  from  running  out.  Place 
in  a  baking  pan  with  %  cup  butter,  2  cups  sugar  and  3  cups 
water.  Bake  about  1  Vz  hours.  This  will  make  its  own  sauce. 
— [Mrs.  D.  H.  H.,  Ida. 

Boiled  Apple  Roll 

Make  a  dough  of  1  qt  flour,  1  tablesp  lard,  a  little  salt,  and 
1  teasp  soda,  mixed  with  sour  milk  enough  to  make  a  dough 
that  will  roll.  Roll  about  i/4  inch  thick,  cover  well  with  finely 
sliced  apples,  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  a  little  nutmeg  or  cin- 
namon, and  roll  up,  carefully  pinching  the  ends  together  to 
prevent  the  escape  of  juice.  Put  this  roll  in  a  well  floured  bag, 
and  boil  out  one  hour.  The  water  must  be  boiling  when  the 
pudding  is  put  in,  and  must  continue  to  boil  without  interrup- 
tion until  the  pudding  is  done.  Any  other  fruit  may  be  substi- 
tuted for  apples.  Serve  with  any  preferred  sauce. —  [Mrs.  R. 
T.  B.,  N.  C. 

Baked  Brown  Betty- 
Grate  some  dry  bread  quite  fine  and  pare   and    core    apples 
and  chop  fine.     Butter  a  baking  dish,  put  in  a  layer  of  bread 
crumbs,  then  a  layer  of  apples,  sprinkle  with  sugar,  and  a  lit- 
tle nutmeg  or  cinnamon,  dot  with  bits  of  butter,  and  alternate 


o 


THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK         65 


in  this  way  until  the  dish  is  filled.  If  the  apples  are  not  very 
juicy  moisten  with  a  little  water.  Bake  until  the  apples  are 
done  and  the  pudding  is  brown  on  top.  The  top  layer  should 
be  of  bread  crumbs,  sprinkled  with  sugar  and  dotted  with  but- 
ter.    Serve  warm  with  cream. — [Mrs.  G.  O.  F.,  N.  H. 

Peach  Pudding 

Fill  a  pudding  dish  with  whole  peeled  peaches,  pour  over 
them  2  cups  water,  cover  closely  and  bake  until  tender.  Then 
drain  off  the  juice,  and  let  it  stand  until  cool.  Add  to  the 
juice  1  pt  sweet  milk,  3  or  4  well-beaten  eggs,  1  cup  sugar,  1 
tablesp  melted  butter,  and  1  cup  flour  sifted  with  1  teasp  bak- 
ing powder  and  a  little  salt.  Beat  well  and  pour  this  batter 
over  the  peaches  in  the  pudding  dish.  Bake  a  rich  brown  and 
serve  with  cream. — [Mrs.  W.  K.,  Cal. 

Orange  Pudding 

Make  a  boiled  custard  of  eggs,  milk  and  cornstarch,  sweet- 
ened to  taste.  Put  a  layer  of  this  in  a  dish,  then  a  layer  of 
sliced  oranges,  another  of  custard,  and  so  on  until  the  dish  is 
filled.  Chill,  and  serve  with  whipped  cream.  In  preparing  the 
oranges  be  sure  to  remove  all  the  white  particles  of  the  peel 
and  between  sections,  and  be  careful  that  no  pits  remain  in  the 
pieces. —  [Mrs.  H.  M.  C,  Ind. 

Boiled  Lemon  Pudding 

Put  over  the  fire  in  an  agate  vessel  2  V2  cups  water  or  milk, 
and  1  cup  sugar.  When  this  is  boiling  stir  into  it  4  heaping 
teasp  cornstarch  dissolved  in  %  cup  water.  Let  this  boil  a  few 
minutes,  stirring  constantly,  then  remove  from  fire  and  add 
the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  3  lemons,  the  beaten  yolks  of  3 
eggs,  and  1  teasp  butter.  Fill  small  preserve  dishes  with  this 
mixture  and  let  them  stand  a  while  to  allow  the  pudding  to 
thicken  and  get  cold.  When  ready  to  serve  top  off  each  dish 
with  a  meringue  made  of  the  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs,  pow- 
dered sugar,  and  a  little  lemon  flavoring. — [Mrs.  C.  von  W., 
N.  J 

Frosted  Lemon  Pudding 

To  1  pt  bread  or  cake  crumbs  (or  both  mixed)  add  1  qt 
milk,  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  1  lemon,  the  beaten  yolks  of 
3  eggs,  4  tablesp  sugar,  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Turn  into  a  well 
buttered  pudding  dish  and  bake.  When  done  cover  with  a 
frosting  made  of  the  whites  of  the  eggs  and  3  tablesp  powdered 
sugar,  and  returnee  the  oven  to  brown  slightly. — [N.  P.,  N.  Ho 


66  THE  ORANGE   JUDD   COOK  BOOK 


Banana  Pudding 

Cream  %  cup  butter  with  %  cup  sugar,  add  1  beaten  egg, 
%  cup  milk,  and  2  cups  flour  sifted  with  V2  teasp  soda  and  1 
teasp  cream  tartar.  Flavor  with  vanilla.  Pour  %  of  this 
batter  into  a  buttered  pudding  dish,  then  3  ripe  bananas,  sliced, 
cover  with  remainder  of  batter,  and  steam  about  1%  hours. 
Serve  with  a  sauce  prepared  as  follows:  Make  a  syrup  of  V2 
cup  sugar  and  1  cup  water.  When  it  threads  remove  from  fire, 
add  2  tablesp  lemon  .juice,  2  well-beaten  eggs,  a  little  salt,  and 

3  mashed  ripe  bananas.     Beat  until  smooth. — [J.  E.  G.,  Me. 

Fig  Pudding 

To  1  cup  finely  chopped  suet  add  1  lb  figs,  cut  fine,  3  well- 
beaten  eggs,  1  cup  sugar,  2  cups  milk,  and  2  cups  bread  crumbs. 
Turn  into  a  well  greased  mould  and  boil  3  hours.  Serve  hot. — 
[Mrs.  J.  K.,  N.  Y. 

Date  Pudding 

To  1  lb  dates,  cut  fine,  add  %  lb  suet,  chopped  fine,  M=  lb 
bread  crumbs,  i/4  lb  sugar,  beaten  yolks  of  2  eggs,  V2  cup 
milk,  and  spices  to  taste.  Lastly  fold  in  the  beaten  whites  of 
the  eggs.  Steam  2  hours.  Serve  with  a  hard  sauce. — [P.  R. 
H. 

Persimmon  Pudding 

Mash  V2  gal  good,  sweet  persimmons,  using  1  cup  water,  and 
strain  through  a  cloth  to  remove  seed  and  skin.  Then  add  l^^ 
cups  sweet  milk,  %  cup  melted  butter,  2  cups  sugar,  and 
enough  flour  sifted  with  2  teasp  baking  powder  to  make  a 
medium  stiff  batter.  Turn  into  a  buttered  biscuit  pan,  and 
bake  slowly  about  1  hour.  Let  cool  in  the  pan,  and  serve  cold, 
sliced  like  cake.  This  is  worth  trying  by  lovers  of  persimmons. 
*— [Mrs.  H.  M.  F.,  N.  C. 

Prune  Pudding 

To  1  well-beaten  egg  add  V2  cup  sugar,  1  y2  cups  milk,  and 

4  cups  flour  sifted  with  1  ^/^  teasp  baking  powder,  and  ^  teasp 
salt.  Turn  this  batter  into  a  well-buttered  pudding  dish  and 
pour  over  the  top  i/4  lb  stewed  and  sweetened  prunes  from 
which  the  pits  have  been  removed.  Bake  about  30  minutes, 
and  serve  with  sugar  and  cream. — Mrs.  A.  D.,  111. 

Prune  Whip 

Cook  1  lb  dried  prunes  until  very  soft,  in  no  more  water  thaa 
necessary.  When  done  remove  the  stones,  mash  fine,  add  1 
cup  sugar,  mix  well,  and  then  add  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of 
4  eggs.  Bake  about  30  minutes.  Serve  cold  or  warm,  with 
sweetened  and  whipped  cream. —  [C.  B.  H..  Mich. 


THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK         67 


Rhubarb  Pudding 

Cut  tender  rhubarb  into  small  pieces  and  add  1  cup  sugar 
to  each  pint  rhubarb.  Place  in  a  buttered  pudding  dish  and 
cover  with  batter  made  of  2  beaten  eggs,  1  cup  milk  and  flour 
enough  to  make  a  thick  batter,  sifted  with  2  teasp  baking  pow- 
der and  a  little  salt.  Bake,  and  when  done  turn  out  on  a  plat- 
ter, so  that  the  rhubarb  will  be  on  top.  Serve  warm  with  sugar 
and  cream. —  [Mrs.  S.  C.  P.,  Mass. 

Cherry  Pudding 

Stew  and  sweeten  well  1  qt  pitted  cherries.  Make  a  batter 
of  1  ^  cups  flour  sifted  with  1  teasp  baking  powder  and  a  little 
salt,  add  1  beaten  egg  and  milk  enough  to  make  a  stiff  bat- 
ter. Drop  by  spoonsful  over  the  stewed  cherries,  cover  the  ves- 
sel well  and  cook  on  top  of  range  about  20  minutes. —  [Mrs. 
E.  E.  S.,  Pa. 

Currant  Pudding 

To  1  qt  flour  add  1  pt  finely  chopped  suet,  1  level  teasp  salt, 
1  pt  ripe  currants,  and  enough  water  to  make  a  stiff  batter. 
Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  about  1  hour,  and  serve  while  warm. 
^— [R.  A.  McD.,  S.  D. 

Cranberry  Pudding 

Moisten  2  cups  bread  crumbs  with  ^  cup  melted  butter, 
sprinkle  a  layer  of  these  crumbs  in  a  buttered  pudding  dish, 
next  add  a  layer  of  stewed  and  sweetened  cranberries,  about  1 
doz  large  seeded  raisins,  a  little  grated  lemon  peel,  and  some 
sugar.  Continue  in  this  way  until  the  crumbs  are  all  used  up, 
then  cover  the  pudding  dish  and  bake  about  20  minutes.  Serve 
warm  with  a  hard  sauce. —  [N.  M.  P.,  N.  H. 

Danish  Berry  Pudding 

Cook  blackberries,  raspberries,  currants  or  any  other  berry, 
in  enough  water  to  cover.  When  done  strain  twice  through  a 
sieve,  put  over  the  fire  again,  sweeten  to  taste,  let  come  to  a 
boil,  and  then  thicken  with  cornstarch,  moistened  in  a  little 
cold  water.  Flavor  to  taste,  and  pour  into  cups  that  have  been 
wet  with  cold  water.  Let  stand  until  cold,  and  stiff,  and  when 
ready  to  serve  turn  cups  upside  down  over  a  saucer  and  the 
contents  will  slip  out  intact.  Serve  with  cream. —  [Mrs.  J.  D. 
J.,  Cal. 

Christmas  Pudding 

The  ingredients  needed  for  this  old-fashioned  pudding  are  1 
qt  each  seeded  raisins,  chopped  apples,  chopped  beef  suet,  stale 
bread  crumbs,  flour  and  sweet  milk,  and  1  pt  each  currants. 


68  THE  ORANGE   JUDD  COOK  BOOK 

citron  and  sugar,  1  grated  nutmeg,  1  teasp  salt  and  8  eggs. 
Dredge  the  fruit  thoroughly  from  the  1  qt  flour.  Into  a  large 
bowl  put  the  eggs  and  then  stir  in  the  crumbs  and  the  dredged 
fruit  and  suet.  Dip  the  baking  bag  in  boiling  water,  and  then 
dredge  it  from  the  quart  of  flour,  and  put  whatever  remains  of 
the  flour  into  the  pudding  mixture.  Next  pour  the  pudding  in 
the  floured  bag,  and  tie  firmly,  allowing  room  to  swell,  and  boil 
3  hours  steadily  in  plenty  boiling  water.  Replenish  with  boil- 
ing water  when  necessary.  This  pudding  is  nice  when  served 
with  the  following  sauce:  Simmer  for  a  few  minutes  over  a 
slow  fire,  stirring  constantly,  y%  lb  sweet  butter,  %  lb  brown 
sugar,  and  the  yolk  of  1  ^z^',  lastly  add  Vvl  pt  canned  grape 
juice  and  after  removing  from  the  fire  grate  in  a  little  nutmeg. 
— [Mrs.  D.,  Kan. 

Blackberry  Pudding 

Make  a  plain  pie  crust  or  a  rich  biscuit  dough,  roll  out 
about  y^  inch  thick,  and  cover  with  ripe,  clean  blackberries. 
Sprinkle  with  sugar,  fold  over  the  dough,  add  more  berries  and 
sugar,  fold  over  again,  and  repeat  this  till  all  the  dough  is 
folded  over,  so  it  will  make  a  flat,  long  roll.  Press  the  ends 
together  securely,  place  roll  in  a  well  greased  pan,  and  bake 
until  a  light  brown.  Serve  cold  with  cream  and  sugar. —  [M, 
A.  W.,  Ind. 

Suet  Pudding 

Mix  1  cup  each  seeded  and  chopped  raisins  and  suet,  %  cup 
currants,  1  cup  syrup,  1  cup  sour  milk,  in  which  has  been  dis- 
solved 2  even  teasp  soda,  and  enough  flour  with  a  little  salt  to 
make  a  stiff  batter.  Steam  2  hours,  and  serve  with  lemon, 
sauce. —  [Mrs.  R.  S.  Q.,  Mont. 

Snet  Pudding  (No  Eggs) 

To  1  cup  finely  chopped  suet  add  4  cups  flour  sifted  with  1 
teasp  baking  powder,  y^  lb  seeded  and  chopped  raisins,  1  cup 
molasses,  1  cup  milk,  a  little  cinnamon,  and  a  pinch  salt.  Boil 
about  2%  hours.  Serve  warm  with  the  following  sauce:  Mix 
1  tablesp  cornstarch  with  a  little  cold  water,  and  then  pour 
over,  stirring  vigorously,  %  cup  boiling  water  and  2  tablesp 
vinegar  or  lemon  juice,  1  tablesp  butter,  1  cup  sugar,  and  yz 
grated  nutmeg.  Boil  until  thick  and  smooth. — [Mrs.  L.  J., 
Cal 

Baked  Suet  Pudding 

To  %  cup  chopped  suet  add  2  cups  bread  crumbs,  y^  cup 
sugar,   y2.   lb  seeded  raisins,   2  well-beaten  eggs,  and  1  scant 


THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK         69* 

Bup  flour  sifted  with  1  teasp  baking  powder.  Place  this  mixture 
In  a  buttered  baking  dish  and  pour  over  cold  milk  enough  to 
almost  cover.  Bake  about  V2  hour  or  a  little  longer,  if  neces- 
sary. Serve  hot  with  whipped  cream  or  any  preferred  sauce. — • 
[E.  B.,  Mich. 

Plum  Pudding 

To  1  well-beaten  egg  add  V2  cup  brown  sugar,  i/^  cup  N  O 
molasses,  1  cup  sour  milk  in  which  dissolve  1  teasp  soda,  1  cup 
chopped  suet  well  dredged  with  flour,  1  lb  each  raisins  and. 
currants,  dredged  with  flour,  ^  lb  chopped  citron  and  scant  a 
cups  flour  mixed  with  i/^  teasp  each  ginger  and  cinnamon  and 

1  grated  nutmeg.  Steam  2^^  hours  and  serve  with  lemon 
sauce  or  any  other  preferred  sauce. —  [Miss  E.  W.,  Wash. 

Plum  Pudding  (No  Eggs) 

To  1  cup  bread  crumbs  add  1  cup  suet  chopped  fine,  1  cup 
molasses,  1  cup  seeded  and  chopped  raisins,  1  cup  sweet  milk, 

2  cups  flour  sifted  with  1  teasp  each  soda,  salt  and  cinnamon, 
and  V2  teasp  cloves.  Boil  3  hours  in  a  2-qt  kettle,  set  into  a 
larger  kettle  of  boiling  water,  or  steam  about  same  length  of 
time.  Serve  with  a  sauce  made  of  1  cup  white  sugar,  butter 
the  size  of  an  egg,  juice  and  grated  rind  of  1  lemon,  and  the 
white  of  1  egg.  Rub  all  to  a  cream  and  add  a  little  boiling 
water. — [Miss  L.  G.,  Minn. 

Baked  Fresh  Plum  Pudding 

To  1  cup  sour  milk  add  i/^  teasp  soda,  1  level  teasp  salt,  2 
heaping  tablesp  lard,  melted,  and  flour  enough  to  make  a  bis- 
cuit dough.  Roll  out  thin  and  spread  evenly  with  cooked  fresh 
plums  from  which  the  juice  has  been  drained  and  the  stones 
removed.  Roll  up,  pinch  the  ends  together  securely,  place  in 
a  roasting  pan,  sprinkle  with  1  cup  sugar,  dot  with  pieces  of 
butter,  and  pour  over  all  the  juice  of  the  plums,  adding  enough 
boiling  water  to  almost  cover  the  roll.  Bake  about  V2  hour 
and  serve  warm  in  its  own  sauce.  Use  a  baking  pan  no  larger 
than  necessary  to  hold  the  roll,  as  otherwise  it  will  require 
too  much  sauce.  Any  other  tart  fruit  can  be  substituted  for 
plums. —  [Mrs.  M.  R.,  Ida. 

Boiled  Fruit  Pudding 

To  1%  cups  bread  crumbs  soaked  in  sweet  milk  until  soft, 
add  3  cups  cooked  and  pitted  prunes,  1  cup  seeded  raisins,  1 
cup  chopped  apples,  scant  V2  cup  chopped  citron,  ^/^  cup 
chopped  figs,  l^  cup  molasses,  1  teasp  soda  dissolved  in  1  cup 
milk,  11/^  teasp  baking  powder  and  a  little  salt  sifted  with  2 
cups  flour.  Steam  about  4  hours.  This  pudding  will  keep  well 
and  portions  of  it  can  be  re-steamed  when  wanted.  Serve  with 
any  preferred  sauce. — [Mrs.  G.  McM.,  Cal. 


70  THE  ORANGE  JUDD   COOK  BOOK 


Boiled  Tapioca  Pudding 

Soak  1  cup  tapioca  over  night  in  a  quart  bowl  nearly  filled 
with  water.  Next  morning  put  this  into  a  double  boiler  and 
cook  until  clear,  stirring  occasionally.  When  clear  add  1  cup 
sugar,  a  small  piece  butter,  and  the  beaten  whites  of  3  eggs. 
Pour  into  a  dish,  and  when  cool  serve  with  cream.  Another 
way  is  to  use  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  in  the  pudding,  instead  of 
the  whites,  beating  the  latter  to  a  froth,  adding  some  pow- 
dered sugar,  and  spreading  the  meringue  over  the  top  of  the 
pudding.  Place  in  a  hot  oven  for  a  few  minutes  to  brown. — 
[Mrs.  C.  S.,  Kan. 

Apple  Tapioca  Pudding 

Soak  1  cup  tapioca  in  1%  pts  milk  about  3  or  4  hours  and 
then  heat  it  until  it  becomes  transparent,  and  add  a  pinch  of 
salt.  Pare  and  cut  the  cores  from  6  good  sized  apples,  arrange 
these  in  a  well  buttered  baking  dish,  fill  the  holes  in  the  apples 
with  sugar,  add  any  preferred  spice  and  little  bits  of  butter, 
pour  in  1  cup  water,  and  bake  until  the  apples  are  soft.  When 
done  pour  the  tapioca  prepared  as  above  over  the  apples  in  the 
pudding  dish  and  return  to  the  oven  about  %  hour.  Serve 
with  cream  and  sugar. —  [Mrs.  J.  L.  R.,  O. 

Rhubarb  and  Prune  Tapioca  Pudding 

Remove  the  stones  from  2  doz  cooked  prunes,  and  add  ^ 
cup  of  the  liquid  in  which  the  prunes  were  cooked,  %  cup 
sugar,  and  1  pt  chopped  raw  rhubarb.  Bo'll  10  minutes,  then 
add  Vz  cup  tapioca  which  has  been  soaked  for  1  hour  in  1  cup 
cold  water.  Cook  until  tapioca  is  clear,  and  serve  either  hot 
or  cold,  with  cream  and  powdered  sugar. —  [N.  P.,  N.  H. 

Indian  Tapioca  Pudding 

To  2  tablesp  Indian  Meal  add  1  tablesp  each  cocoanut  and 
tapioca,  %  cup  molasses,  %  cup  sugar,  butter  size  of  a  wal- 
nut, a  little  salt  and  1  qt  scalding  hot  milk.  Bake  2  hours 
in  a  slow  oven.     Serve  with  cream. — [F.  L.  R.,  Ct. 

Steamed  Indian  Pudding       (No  Eggs) 

Heat  1  qt  skim  milk,  stir  in  %  cup  cornmeal  and  cook  until 
it  thickens.  Remove  from  fire,  stir  in  %  cup  sugar,  V2  cup 
raisins,  1  teasp  vinegar,  %  teasp  cinnamon  and  1  level  teasp 
salt.  Let  cool  and  then  steam  about  6  hours.  Cooling  before 
steaming  makes  this  pudding  "jell."  Serve  with  cream. — « 
[Mrs.  J.  I.  M.,  N.  H. 


THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK         71 

Indian  Frnit  Pudding 

Put  1  heaping  cup  Indian  meal  in  a  mixing  bowl,  stir  in  1 
cup  molasses  and  1  level  teasp  salt.  Scald  3  pts  milk  and  pour 
it  boiling  hot  over  the  meal,  stirring  it  to  a  smooth  batter. 
Butter  a  deep  pudding  dish,  cover  the  bottom  with  stoned 
chopped  prunes,  pour  the  batter  over  them  and  just  before  the 
pudding  is  placed  in  the  oven  pour  carefully  over  the  top  1 
cup  cold  sweet  milk,  but  do  not  stir  it  in.  Bake  about  4  or  5 
hours.     Serve  with  cream. —  [Mrs.  J,  B.,  Kan. 

Apple   Cornmeal   Pudding 

Boil  1  cup  cornmeal  in  salted  water  until  it  thickens.  Pare, 
quarter  and  core  sour  apples,  mix  these  with  the  thickened 
meal,  and  steam  in  a  covered  dish  about  4  hours.  The  more 
apples  you  put  in  the  pudding  the  better  it  will  be.  This  is  fine 
to  serve  with  roast  pork,  and  is  said  to  prevent  the  harmful 
effects  upon  the  stomach,  usually  attributed  to  roast  pork. 
This  recipe  has  been  handed  down  in  our  family  for  more  than 
100  years. —  [J.  E.  B.,  Mass. 

Graham   Pudding 

Sift  together  2  cups  graham  flour,  1  teasp  each  soaa  and 
cinnamon,  and  %  teasp  each  salt  and  cloves.  Pour  over  this  1 
cup  milk  and  %  cup  molasses.  Beat  well,  then  add  1  cup 
seeded  raisins  well  dredged  with  flour,  and  pour  this  mixture 
into  well  greased  cans,  allowing  space  for  swelling.  Cover 
closely  and  steam  for  2  to  4  hours,  according  to  size  of  molds. 
Serve  warm  with  a  golden  sauce  made  of  scant  V^.  cup  butter 
creamed  with  1  cup  powdered  sugar,  3  tablesp  cream  added 
slowly,  y^  teasp  vanilla,  and  1  well-beaten  qzZ-  Heat  over  a 
kettle  of  hot  water,  stirring  frequently,  and  serve  hot  with 
the  warm  pudding. — [E.  T.,  Va. 

Boiled  Rice  Pudding 

Wash  and  drain  2  small  cups  rice  and  cook  with  plenty 
water  in  a  double  boiler.  When  done  the  water  should  be  all 
absorbed  and  the  grains  very  large.  Add  a  mixture  made  of  3 
well-beaten  eggs,  1  cup  sugar,  1  cup  milk,  a  little  salt  and 
grated  nutmeg.  Stir  well  and  boil  till  thick — about  5  minutes. 
—[Mrs.  J.  J.  M.,  111. 

Eggless  Rice  Pudding 

Wash  Vz  cup  rice,  drain,  add  1  cup  sugar,  small  piece  butter, 
a  little  nutmeg  and  2  qts  fresh  milk.  Bake  in  moderate  oven 
about  2  hours.  Raisins  can  be  added  if  liked.  Stir  up  from 
bottom  of  dish  often  until  rice  is  cooked.  This  is  good  served 
hot,  but  we  prefer  it  cold. —  [Mrs.  S.  C.  S.,  N.  Y. 


72  THE  ORANGE   JUDD   COOK  BOOK 

Tapioca   and   Rice   Pudding 

Soak  %  cup  tapioca  in  1  cup  water,  and  in  another  vessel 
soak  V2  cup  rice  in  2  cups  water.  Let  stand  over  night  and 
next  morning  combine  them  and  add  4  cups  milk,  2  well-beaten 
eggs,  salt  and  sugar  to  taste,  and  a  little  lemon  flavor. —  [Misa 
B.  C.  B.,  O. 

Lemon  Rice  Pudding 

Stir  into  1  cup  boiling  rice  the  grated  rind  of  1  lemon.  6 
tablesp  sugar,  the  beaten  yolks  of  2  eggs,  1  pt  milk  and  a  little 
salt.  Bake  about  1  hour.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a 
stiff  froth,  add  1  scant  cup  confectioner's  sugar  and  the  juice 
of  1  lemon.  When  the  pudding  is  done  spread  this  meringue 
over  it,  and  return  to  the  oven  a  few  minutes  to  lightly  brown. 
—  [F.  S.  T.,  Ct. 

Sago  Pudding 

Put  3  pts  rich  milk  in  a  double  boiler,  add  1  cup  sago  and 
let  cook  till  clear.  Remove  from  fire,  add  beaten  yolks  of  2 
eggs,  V2  cup  sugar,  and  flavor  with  lemon  or  vanilla,  or  a  little 
of  both.  Pour  into  a  well  buttered  baking  dish  and  bake 
about  V2  hour.  When  done  cover  with  a  meringue  made  of  the 
whites  of  2  eggs  and  a  little  powdered  sugar,  and  return  to  the 
oven  a  few  minutes  to  brown. —  [Mrs.  F.  E.  P.,  Wash. 

Rhubarb  Sage  Pudding 

Cook  slowly  %  cup  sago  and  1  qt  water  until  clear,  then 
add  1  scant  cup  sliced  rhubarb,  pinch  salt,  %  cup  sugar  and 
small  piece  ginger  root.  Turn  into  buttered  baking  dish  and 
bake  about  1  hour  in  moderate  oven.  If  the  mixture  seems  too 
thick,  add  a  little  water.  Serve  hot  with  cream  and  sugar. — ■ 
[Unidentified. 

Cornstarch  Pudding 

Heat  1  qt  sweet  milk  and  add  to  it  3  rounding  tablesp  corn- 
starch mixed  smooth  with  a  little  cold  milk.  Stir  well,  then 
add  5  tablesp  sugar  and  a  little  salt.  Cook  about  5  minutes, 
and  then  add  3  or  4  well-beaten  eggs  and  1  teasp  butter.  Bake 
in  a  well  buttered  pudding  dish  and  serve  cold  with  cream.—- 
[Mrs.  J.  B.,  Kan. 

Oatmeal  Pudding 

Soak  1  cup  oatmeal  over  night  in  1  qt  milk;  in  the  morning 
add  1  well-beaten  egg,  %  cup  seeded  raisins,  nutmeg  and  salt  to 
taste  and  4  tablesp  sugar.  Bake  about  1  hour.  This  is  nice 
for  invalids  and  people  with  poor  digestion. —  [Mrs.  L.  A.  G., 
Mass. 


THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK 


Plain  Bread  Pudding 

Butter  well  small  pieces  of  stale  bread,  arrange  them  in  a 
well  buttered  pudding  dish,  sprinkle  with  a  little  nutmeg  and 
cinnamon,  cover  well  with  sweetened  milk,  and  bake. —  [R.  W., 
Mo. 

Boiled  Bread  Pudding 

To  1  cup  fine  bread  crumbs  add  1  pt  milk,  beaten  yolks  of  2 
eggs,  2  tablesp  sugar,  piece  butter  size  of  small  egg  and  any- 
preferred  flavoring.  Place  in  a  double  boiler  and  cook  until 
done,  stirring  occasionally.  When  done  turn  out  into  a  pud- 
ding dish,  squeeze  the  juice  of  1  lemon  over  the  top,  place  bits 
of  jelly  over  the  top  and  lastly  the  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs 
with  powdered  sugar.  We  think  this  much  better  than  baked 
pudding. —  [Mrs.  M.  A.  B.,  Mich. 

Raised  Bread  Pudding 

Roll  out  some  light  bread  dough  about  Vz  inch  thick,  cover 
with  finely  sliced  apples,  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  a  little  cinna- 
mon, dot  with  pieces  of  butter,  wet  the  edges  of  the  dough 
with  a  little  milk,  then  roll  up  lightly  and  pinch  the  edges 
securely  together.  Let  stand  about  V2  hour  and  then  steam 
until  done.  Serve  with  sweetened  cream. —  [Mrs.  D.  J.  W., 
Mich, 

Graham  Bread  Pudding 

A.  delicious  pudding  can  be  made  from  graham  bread  cjusts 
by  soaking  them  in  milk,  adding  eggs  and  sugar  to  taste,  and  a 
little  vanilla  flavor.  If  you  happen  to  have  a  little  cocoa  left 
from  breakfast  this  can  also  be  added  to  the  pudding. — [Mrs. 
B.  B.  M.,  Kan. 

Caramel  Pudding 

Brown  %  cup  granulated  sugar  in  a  pie  tin  set  on  top  of  the 
stove.  Stir  constantly  and  be  sure  it  is  well  browned.  Then. 
stir  this  browned  sugar  into  1  qt  scalding  milk,  add  pinch  salt, 
stir  well,  and  when  cool  add  4  well-beaten  eggs,  saving  out  the 
whites  of  2.  Pour  into  a  buttered  pudding  dish  and  bake  until 
well  set.  When  done  cover  with  a  meringue  made  of  the 
whites  of  the  2  eggs  and  some  powdered  sugar,  and  return  to 
the  oven  a  few  minutes  to  brown.  Instead  of  the  egg  meringue 
I  sometimes  serve  this  pudding  with  whipped  and  sweetened 
cream  on  top. —  [Mrs.  F.  E.  P.,  Wash. 


74         THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK 

Cottage  Pudding 

Cream  V2  cup  sugar  and  1  tablesp  butter,  add  1  well-beaten 
egg,  V2  cup  milk  and  1  scant  cup  flour  sifted  with  1  teasp  bak- 
ing powder  and  a  little  salt.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven,  and 
serve  hot  or  cold  with  any  preferred  sauce. — [K.  A.  D.,  N.  D. 

Rhubarb  Cottage  Pudding 

Mix  1  pt  flour  with  1  teasp  baking  powder  and  a  pinch  of 
Bait,  and  add  milk  enough  to  make  a  stiff  batter.  Into  but- 
tered custard  cups  put  1  spoonful  batter,  then  1  spoonful  pre- 
pared rhubarb  sauce,  and  top  off  with  another  spoonful  batter. 
Steam  V2  hour,  and  serve  hot  with  cream  and  sugar. — [Mrs. 
J.  W.  M.,  Pa. 

Baked  Chocolate  Pudding 

To  1  cup  bread  crumbs  add  1  qt  hot  milk,  1  oz  grated  choc- 
olate, V2  cup  sugar,  1  well-beaten  egs,  1  teasp  vanilla  and  a 
little  salt.  Soak  the  bread  crumbs  in  part  of  the  hot  milk  and 
beat  until  smooth,  then  add  the  rest  of  the  milk  and  the  other 
ingredients,  and  bake  until  firm,  in  a  slow  oven.  Serve  cold 
with  whipped  cream. —  [E.  M.  R.,  Ct. 

Cracker  Pudding 

To  about  4  plain  soda  or  butter  crackers  rolled  fine  add  1  qt 
milk,  y2  cup  sugar,  the  yolks  of  3  eggs  and  a  pinch  of  salt. 
Bake  in  a  well  buttered  pudding  dish,  and  when  done  spread 
over  the  top  the  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  stiff  with  %  cup 
powdered  sugar  and  flavored  with  any  preferred  flavoring. 
Return  to  the  oven  a  few  minutes  to  brown. —  [M.  B.  G.,  Wis. 

Biscuit  Pudding 

Pour  enough  boiling  water  on  4  or  5  stale  biscuits  to  cover, 
and  set  on  the  back  of  the  stove  to  soften.  When  soft  mash 
free  from  lumps,  and  stir  in  a  mixture  made  of  1  cup  sugar 
creamed  with  14  cup  butter,  and  beaten-yolks  of  3  eggs.  Flavor 
with  any  preferred  flavoring.  Bake  about  15  or  20  minutes. 
When  done  put  over  the  top  some  plum  or  any  other  jelly,  and 
cover  with  a  meringue  made  of  the  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs 
and  Vz  cup  powdered  sugar.  Return  to  the  oven  a  few  minutes 
to  brown.    May  be  served  hot  or  cold. —  [Mrs.  L.  J.  A.,  Ala. 

Raw  Potato  Pudding 

Grate  2  large  raw  potatoes,  add  1  lb  finely  chopped  suet,  1 V2 
qts  buttermilk  or  water,  1  cup  sugar,  %  cup  molasses,  a  little 
salt  and  flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff  batter.     I  put  this  batter 


THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK         75 


away  in  a  cool  place  and  use  as  wanted  during  the  winter. 
When  wanted  take  a  portion  of  this  batter,  add  %  teasp  soda, 
or  less,  dissolved  in  a  little  hot  water,  salt,  raisins  or  currants, 
and  spices  to  suit  taste.  Steam  about  1  hour.  Serve  with  any 
preferred  sauce.  This  is  a  favorite  pudding  in  our  family. — ■ 
[Mrs.  E.  J.  D.,  N.  Y. 

Sweet  Potato  Pudding  I 

To  1  pt  grated  raw  sweet  potatoes  add  1  cup  sugar,  3  or  4 
well-beaten  eggs,  1 V2  cups  milk,  pinch  salt  and  spice  to  suit. 
Beat  well  and  turn  into  a  pudding  dish  in  which  2  tablesp  but- 
ter has  been  melted.  Bake  in  a  slow  oven  about  1  hour.  Serve 
plain,  or  with  cream  or  any  preferred  sauce. —  [Mrs.  P.  H.,  Tex. 

Sweet  Potato  Pudding  II 

Mash  fine  about  4  medium  large,  baked  sweet  potatoes. 
While  hot  add  3  well-beaten  eggs,  l^^  cups  sugar,  2  tablesp 
butter,  2  tablesp  flour,  1  cup  milk  and  a  little  nutmeg  or  any 
flavor  to  suit.  This  pudding  is  nice  with  a  meringue,  and  if 
this  is  wanted,  leave  out  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  whip  to  a 
stiff  froth  with  a  little  powdered  sugar,  and  spread  over  the 
pudding  when  it  is  done,  and  return  it  to  the  oven  a  few  min- 
utes to  brown  lightly. —  [Mrs.  W.  V.  P.,  Pla. 

Pumpkin  Pudding 

Pare  the  pumpkin,  remove  pulp  and  seeds,  cut  into  small 
pieces  and  cook  until  soft.  Mash,  and  to  each  cup  mashed 
pumpkin  measured  without  the  juice,  add  1  tablesp  flour,  1 
beaten  egg,  Vz  cup  sugar,  1  teasp  ginger,  some  salt  and  sweet 
milk  enough  to  make  1  qt  batter.  Other  spices  and  butter  can 
be  added,  if  liked.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  3  hours. — [Mrs. 
T.  v.,  Wis. 

Baked  Carrot  Pudding 

To  1  cup  grated,  raw  carrots,  add  1  cup  finely  chopped  suet, 
1  cup  flour,  1  cup  sugar,  1  teasp  soda  dissolved  in  1  tablesp 
milk,  %  teasp  cloves,  i/^  teasp  salt,  1  teasp  cinnamon  and  1 
well-beaten  egg.  Sift  the  spices  with  the  flour,  and  lastly  add 
1  cup  currants  dredged  with  flour.  Bake  about  3  hours. 
Serve  warm  with  or  without  sauce. — [Mrs.  S.  C.  P.,  Mass. 

MarshmaUow    Snow    Pudding 

Soak  1  tablesp  clear  gelatine  in  ^/^  cup  cold  water  to  soften. 
Let  this  stand  a  while,  and  then  add    ^    cup    boiling    water. 


76  THE   ORANGE   JUDD   COOK  BOOK 


While  this  is  cooling  beat  up  the  whites  of  3  eggs  and  add  1 
small  cup  powdered  sugar.  Next  with  the  egg  beater  beat  up 
the  cold  gelatine  mixture  until  it  froths  and  stiffens  like  egg 
whites,  after  which  beat  in  the  stiff  egg  whites,  and  flavor  with 
vanilla.  It  will  t^ke  10  or  15  minutes  of  vigorous  beating  to 
froth  the  gelatine  mixture,  and  can  only  be  done  in  cool 
weather.  Set  away  in  a  cold  place  until  ready  to  serve.  This 
is  a  delicious  pudding  and  safe  for  invalids  and  children.— •» 
[A.  G.,  Mass. 

Com  Pudding 

With  a  sharp  knife  score  through  the  center  of  each  row  of 
kernels  of  10  good  roasting  ears  of  corn,  and  with  the  back  of 
a  silver  knife  scrape  off  the  grains.  This  method  will  leave  the 
husks  on  the  cob.  Into  the  corn  mix  3  or  4  well-beaten  eggs, 
2  cups  sugar,  2  cups  milk,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  2  tablesp 
cornstarch  or  flour,  some  salt,  and  lemon  or  vanilla  flavor. 
Bake,  and  during  the  first  l^  hour  or  hour  stir  it  frequently 
and  carefully,  then  smooth  off  v-:"th  the  back  of  a  spoon,  and  let 
it  bake  until  done  and  a  nice  brown  on  top. — [Mrs.  E.  B.  C, 
N.  C. 

Vegetable  Pudding 

This  pudding  is  equal  to  the  richest  plum  pudding,  and 
comes  in  season  just  when  the  hens  are  not  laying — or,  if  they 
are  laying,  the  eggs  can  be  sold  to  advantage.  Put  through 
the  food  chopper  1  lb  boiled  carrots,  1  lb  suet,  1  lb  stale  bread 
and  to  this  add  1  lb  seeded  raisins  cut  in  halves,  1  lb  currants, 
1/^  lb  citron,  ^^  lb  lemon  peel  cut  fine,  1  lb  sugar,  1  teasp  mixed 
spices  to  taste,  1  large  cup  syrup  and  small  ^/^  cup  apple  or 
grape  juice  or  the  juice  from  canned  or  sweet  pickled  fruit, 
then  gradually  add  3  large  cups  flour  and  mix  very  thoroughly. 
This  will  make  a  large  pudding  which  will  require  about  48 
hours  boiling,  but  if  preferred,  the  mixture  can  be  divided  into 
small,  well  buttered  bowls,  and  boiled  about  12  hours.  Use  % 
the  above  given  quantities  if  a  smaller  pudding  is  desired. 
Serve  with  vanilla  sauce. —  [P.  B.,  N.  Y. 

Tomato  Pudding 

Slice  some  peeled  ripe  tomatoes  into  a  well  buttered  pudding 
dish,  and  sprinkle  with  salt.  Add  a  few  cold  biscuits  broken 
fine,  1  qt  svv^eet  milk,  2  well-beaten  eggs  and  l^/^  cups  sugar. 
The  milk,  eggs  and  sugar  should  be  heated  together  and  poured 
9ver  the  tomatoes  and  biscuits.     Bake. — [Mrs.  H.  M.  F.,  N.  C. 


THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK         77 


Puff  Pudding 

Stir  9  tablesp  flour  into  1  pt  boiling  milk.  Let  this  boil  up, 
stirring  to  prevent  it  from  getting  lumpy,  then  remove  from 
fire,  and  add  3  well-beaten  eggs  and  pinch  salt.  Bake  in  a 
quick  oven  about  %  hour.  Serve  warm  with  cream  and  sugar. 
■ — [J.  E.  B.,  Mass. 

Nut  Pudding  (Rich) 

To  1  cup  chopped  nut  meats  add  1  cup  chopped  and  pitted 
dates,  1  cup  sugar,  1  beaten  egg,  1  cup  milk,  butter  size  of  wal- 
nut, 1  scant  teasp  baking  powder  and  1  cup  bread  crumbs. 
Bake  about  Vz  hour. — [Mrs.  H.  M.  C,  Ind. 

Graham  Nut  Pudding 

To  2  cups  graham  flour  add  V2  teasp  salt,  2  level  teasp  bak- 
ing powder,  1  cup  milk  in  which  dissolve  small  i/^  teasp  soda, 
V2  cup  molasses,  1  cup  seeded  raisins  cut  fine,  V2  cup  walnut 
meats  cut  fine,  or  blanched  almonds,  cut  fine.  Mix  thoroughly 
and  steam  about  3  hours. —  [Mrs.  C.  E.  G.,  Ariz. 

Plain  Raisin  Custard 

To  1  qt  milk  add  2  well-beaten  eggs,  1  tablesp  cornstarch,  5 
tablesp  sugar  and  I/2  cup  seeded  raisins.  If  liked  mix  in  a  lit- 
tle spice.     Bake  until  the  custard  is  set. — [Mrs.  L.  A.  G.,  Me. 

Cocoanut  Custard 

To  %  cup  rolled  cracker  crumbs  add  1  cup  grated  cocoanut, 
1  small  cup  sugar,  the  beaten  white  of  1  egg,  and  the  yolks  of 
8  eggs.  Bake  about  %  hour  and  when  done  cover  with  a 
meringue  made  from  the  beaten  whites  of  2  eggs  and  a  little 
sugar,  flavored  to  taste.  Return  to  the  oven  a  few  minutes  to 
brown. — [H.  L.  N.,  Mass. 

Cream  Custard 

To  1  pt  sweet  cream  add  i/^  lb  sugar,  beaten  yolks  of  3  eggs, 
beaten  whites  of  3  eggs  and  a  little  grated  nutmeg  and  salt. 
Pour  into  a  well  buttered  deep  pie  plate  which  has  been  sprin- 
kled with  bread  or  cake  crumbs,  about  as  thick  as  an  ordinary 
pie  crust,  and  also  cover  the  top  of  the  pudding  with  a  dress- 
ing of  crumbs.  Bake  until  set.  Custard  should  be  baked  just 
long  enough  to  have  it  set.  If  baked  too  long  it  will  become 
watery. —  [B.  B.,  Pa. 


78  THE  ORANGE  JUDD   COOK  BOOK 


Cheap  Sauce 

Mix  1  teasp  flour  with  %  cup  sugar,  and  stir  this  into  a 
smooth  paste  with  a  little  cold  milk,  then  pour  on  boiling  milk 
till  it  is  thick  enough.  Let  it  boil  a  few  minutes,  stirring  con- 
stantly.    Flavor  to  taste. —  [M.  E.  A.,  O. 

Butter  Sauce 

To  Vb  cup  butter  add  ^  cup  sugar  and  2  cups  water.  Let 
this  come  to  a  boil,  then  stir  in  2  teasp  flour  moistened  with  a 
little  cold  water.  Let  boll  a  few  minutes  longer,  or  until  it 
thickens,  then  remove  from  fire,  and  flavor  with  vanilla. — 
[Miss  G.  L.  H.,  W.  Va. 

Hard  Sauce 

Cream  1  cup  sugar  with  a  liberal  i/4  cup  butter;  then  add 
gradually  ^  teasp  lemon  extract  and  %  teasp  vanilla  extract. 
Serve  cold  with  warm  pudding. —  [Mrs.  C.  J.  H.,  Vt. 

Uncooked  Sweet  Sauces 

Wash  berries,  drain  and  add  sugar  to  the  fruit.  Mix  well 
together  and  let  stand  for  1  hour.  Currants  should  be 
stemmed  and  washed,  next  lightly  crushed  (not  mashed)  with 
a  potato  masher,  then  mixed  with  a  liberal  amount  of  sugar, 
and  let  stand  a  while. —  [Mrs.   G.,  Wis. 

Maple  Sugar  Sauces 

Boil  1/4  lb  maple  sugar  with  %  cup  water  until  it  threads, 
then  pour  into  the  stifily  whipped  whites  of  2  eggs,  beating 
vigorously  all  the  while,  and  next  add  %  cup  sweet  cream  and 
1  teasp  lemon  juice.  Another  plain  sauce  is  made  by  grating 
Vz  lb  maple  sugar  into  i/^  cup  sweet  milk  or  cream,  boiling  it 
for  a  few  minutes,  and  stirring  constantly  to  prevent  burning. 
Still  another  sauce  is  made  by  cooking  in  a  double  boiler  about 
20  minutes,  2  cups  grated  maple  sugar,  2  well-beaten  eggs, 
juice  of  2  lemons,  and  1  scant  tablesp  butter. — [Mrs.  J.  C.  H., 
Vt. 

EngMsh  Plum  Pudding  Sauce 

To  1  cup  sugar  add  1  tablesp  butter  and  1  tablesp  corn- 
starch moistened  with  a  little  cold  water.  Then  pour  over  1 
pt  boiling  water,  stirring  all  the  time,  and  let  boil  until  corn- 
starch is  done.  Then  remove  from  fire  and  flavor  to  taste — ' 
%  lemon  and  %  vanilla  extract  is  nice,  and  a  pinch  of  salt. — • 
[Mrs.  R.  C.  Ida. 


THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK         79 


Stewed  Whole  Cranberries 

Use  only  the  best  ripe  berries,  discarding  all  the  soft  and 
inferior  ones,  which  may  be  used  for  marmalade  or  strained 
sauce.  Wash  the  berries,  and  then  put  them  into  a  double 
boiler.  In  a  separate  vessel  cook  together  for  10  minutes  one- 
half  as  much  sugar  as  you  have  berries,  and  half  as  much 
■water  as  sugar.  Then  pour  this  boiling  syrup  over  the  berries 
in  the  double  boiler,  and  place  the  latter  over  a  hot  fire,  and 
cook  until  the  berries  are  done.  This  will  take  about  1  hour. 
Do  not  stir  the  berries,  but  from  time  to  time  press  them  down 
under  the  syrup,  so  that  all  may  be  equally  cooked.  Be  care- 
ful that  the  water  does  not  get  too  lov/  in  the  outside  boiler. 
Cooked  in  this  manner  the  skins  do  not  separate  from  the 
pulp,  and  the  cranberries  apnear  more  like  stewed  cherries. — . 
[N.  M.  P.,  N.  H. 

Cranberry  and  Apple  Sauce 

To  the  desired  amount  of  cranberries  add  one-half  as  much 
peeled  apples,  cored  and  quartered,  and  stew  together  until 
tender.  Then  remove  from  fire  and  let  stand  until  nearly 
cold  before  adding  sugar  to.  taste.  It  will  not  require  nearly 
as  much  sweetening  as  when  hot,  and  the  apples  impart  a 
pleasant  flavor,  and  also  help  to  save  sugar.  If  this  sauce  is 
rubbed  through  a  sieve  to  remove  the  skins  of  the  cranberries, 
it  will  be  found  to  be  a  very  pleasing  as  well  as  economical 
sauce  to  serve  with  meats  of  any  kind. — [Mrs.  E.  B.  L.,  Me. 

Cranberry  Sauce  (Jelly) 

Add  1  cup  water  to  1  qt  cranberries  and  cook  10  to  15 
minutes,  then  add  2  heaping  cups  sugar  and  cook  10  to  15 
minutes  longer.  Rub  through  a  sieve  and  pour  into  a  mold 
wet  in  cold  water.  When  ready  to  serve  turn  out  on  a  platter. 
— [B.  H.  K.,  Me. 

Thin  Cranberry  Sauce 

Boil  together  1  qt  cranberries  and  2  qts  water,  and  when 
done  add  ^^  cup  sugar,  and  1  tablesp  flour  or  cornstarch 
moistened  with  a  little  cold  water.  Cook  10  minutes  longer 
and  then  rub  through  a  sieve. — [Mrs.  L.  S.,  Minn. 

Grape  Sauce 

To  1  cup  stewed  grapes,  seeds  and  skins  removed,  add  1% 
cups  sugar,  2  well-beaten  eggs  and  3  cups  boiling  hot  water. 
Thicken  a  little  with  cornstarch  and  before  removing  from 
fire  add  lump  butter  about  size  of  an  egg,  and  1  teasp  vanilla 
flavor. — [Mrs.  A.  W.  T..  Mich. 


80         THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK 


Rhubarb  Sauce 

Wash  the  rhubarb  (about  1  lb  of  it,  if  your  family  is  small, 
for  like  apple  sauce,  it  is  better  not  to  let  it  stand  for  any 
length  of  time),  trim  the  tops,  but  do  not  peel  as  the  red 
skins  impart  a  fine  flavor  and  color.  Cut  it  up  into  pieces  and 
to  3  cups  rhubarb  add  2  cups  sugar  but  no  water.  Place  on 
the  back  of  the  range  until  the  sugar  melts  gradually  and  then 
cook  slowly  without  stirring,  until  done.  In  this  way  the  pieces 
will  remain  nice  and  whole. — [Mrs.  C.  C,  N.  Y. 

Strawberry  Saace 

Cream  1  cup  sugar  and  %  cup  butter,  and  then  add  i/^  pt 
crushed  strawberries,  mixing  all  well  together.  Another  way 
is  to  put  1  qt  strawberries  over  the  fire  with  1 1/^  cups  sugar  and 
2  tablesp  butter.  Stir  constantly  as  it  burns  easily. — [M.  W., 
S.  C. 

Boiled  Cider  Sauce 

Cream  %  cup  butter  and  1  cup  sugar,  then  stir  in  V2  cup 
boiled  cider,  a  little  at  a  time,  and  just  before  serving  set 
the  bowl  containing  this  mixture  in  a  kettle  of  hot  water,  but 
do  not  boil. —  [Mrs.  P.  A.  D.,  Ill 

Plain  Apple  Sauce 

Pare,  core  and  quarter  8  or  10  medium  sized  tart  apples. 
Put  them  in  a  granite  or  porcelain  lined  vessel,  add  about 
2  cups  water,  and  cook  until  tender.  Then  add  1  cup  sugar 
and  cook  10  minutes  longer,  stirring  occasionally  to  prevent 
scorching.  Press  through  a  colander,  add  a  dash  of  cinnamon, 
and  if  served  hot,  add  1  tablesp  butter.  A  few  thin  shavings 
of  lemon  peel  may  be  cooked  with  the  apples. — [Mrs.  A.  C, 
W.  Va. 

Boiled  Cider  Apple  Sauce 

Pare,  core  and  quarter  1  lb  of  "sweets,"  if  you  have  them. 
If  not,  use  any  good  sweet  apples.  I  do  not  weigh  or  measure 
for  this  sauce,  but  pour  over  the  apples  the  boiled  cider 
reduced  with  a  little  water  until  it  has  a  mild  and  pleasant 
flavor.  Add  sugar  to  taste  and  cook  very  slowly  until  apples 
can  be  pierced  with  a  splint.  Put  up  in  cans  or  jars.  It  will 
keep  nicely  even  if  not  sealed  air  tight. — [Mrs.  G.  G.,  N.  Y. 


Pies  and  ShoMcakes 

LL  rich  pastry  preparations  are  hard  to 
digest,  according  to  learned  authorities, 
and  therefore  pie  is  not  considered  health- 
ful. But  when  pastry  is  prepared  by  a 
skillful  cook,  the  discomforts,  not  to  say 
dangers,  which  are  supposed  to  attend  its 
consumption,  can  be  reduced  to  a  mini- 
mum, by  artful  blending  and  sensible  omissions.  Rich 
crusts  that  in  their  composition  call  for  equal  parts  of 
flour  and  butter  or  shortening,  are  rarely  used  in  these 
days,  because  they  are  too  rich,  too  indigestible  and  too 
expensive,  and  because  we  have  found  better  ways  of 
preparing  acceptable  substitutes.  The  chief  requisites 
are  that  pie  crust  should  be  light  and  flaky,  and  not  soggy 
and  leathery,  as  some  "counterfeits"  are  turned  out. 
Much  depends  upon  the  pie  filling,  also,  for  dyspepsia 
often  lurks  in  that  delectable  article,  as  Avell  as  in  the 
greasy  crust.  It  behooves  each  cook,  therefore,  to  take 
careful  note  of  the  gastronomical  idiosyncrasies  of  the 
family,  and  to  wisely  adjust  her  pastry  selections  and 
preparations  accordingly.  The  following  recipes  would 
seem  to  offer  a  large  enough  variety  in  the  line  of  pies 
and  pastry  to  satisfy  all  tastes.  They  were  sent  in  as. 
"tried  and  tested"  by  Orange  Judd  readers,  and  since  the 
consumers  lived  to  tell  about  the  pies  and  such  things 
that  they  prepared  and  ate,  the  recipes  would  seem  to  be 
safe  for  others  to  try.     Take  your  choice. 

Suet  Pie  Crust 

To  2  cups  flour  add  %  teasp  baking  powder  and  a  pinch  of 
salt;  then  mix  in  V2  cup  clear  suet  with  a  chopping  knife 
until  the  whole  is  smooth  and  fine  grained.  Then  add  sweet 
milk  to  make  a  dough  that  can  be  rolled  out.  The  suet  should 
be  measured  after  it  has  been  clarified  and  cooled. — [Mrs.  A. 
M.,  N.  Y.  ^ 


82         THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK 


Plain  Pie  Crust 

To  21/^  cups  sifted  flour  add  a  pinch  salt  and  a  heaping 
teasp  baking  powder.  Then  mix  in  1  cup  shortening  (I  use 
one-half  butter  and  one-half  lard ) ,  using  a  chopping  knife 
to  cut  through  the  flour,  and  lastly  add  about  Vz  cup  cold 
water,  or  enough  to  make  a  stiff  dough.  Mix  and  handle 
as  little  as  possible — only  just  enough  to  get  it  into  shape  and 
to  roll  it  out.  This  amount  will  make  two  pies.— [Mrs.  E. 
D.,  Ida. 

Flaky  Pie  Crust 

The  rule  that  I  follow  for  measuring  for  pie  crust  is  always 
one-half  the  quantity  of  the  previous  ingredients.  Thus  1 
cup  flour,  V2  cup  lard,  %  cup  water.  The  secret  of  having 
flaky  pie  crust  is  in  chopping  or  cutting  the  different  ingredi- 
ents together,  always  using  a  knife.  In  rolling  out  do  not  use 
any  more  flour  than  is  absolutely  necessary.  Cut  or  chop 
the  lard  through  the  flour  until  the  former  is  in  pieces  about 
the  size  of  small  beans. —  [Mrs.  G.,  Wis. 

Sweet  Cream  Pie  Crust 

To  1  cup  thick  sweet  cream  add  1  tablesp  sugar  and  mix  this 
into  2  cups  flour  sifted  with  1  teasp  baking  powder  and  a 
pinch  of  salt.  This  quantity  is  enough  for  two  pies. — [Mrs. 
L.  S.,  Minn. 

Sour  Cream  Pie  Crust 

We  think  this  is  the  most  wholesome  pie  crust  of  any  that 
we  have  tried.  Dissolve  1  level  teasp  soda  in  1  pt  thick  sour 
cream,  and  pour  this  mixture  with  a  little  salt  added  into 
sufficient  flour  to  make  a  dough  of  the  proper  consistency.  Roll 
into  rather  thin  crusts. — [Mrs.  A.  C.  W.,  W.  Va. 

Egg  Pie  Crust 

Here  is  a  wholesome  pie  crust  that  never  fails  me.  To  1 
cup  flour,  add  a  pinch  salt,  i/^  teasp  baking  powder,  2 
tablesp  sugar,  1  tablesp  butter,  and  1  tablesp  lard.  Work 
together  thoroughly  with  a  batter  spoon,  fork  or  knife,  and 
then  wet  with  1  beaten  egg. — [Mrs.  P.  A.,  Minn. 

Rich  Puff  Paste 

Into  1  lb  flour  cut  or  chop  %  lb  butter,  and  add  cold  water 
enough  to  make  a  dough  that  can  be  rolled.  Roll  out  on  a 
board  and  gradually  work  in  another  %  lb  butter  by  spreading 
a  little  at  a  time  over  the  crust,  folding  over,  and  rolling  out 
again,  repeating  this  operation  half  a  dozen  times  or  more,  or 
until  all  the  butter  is  used.     Keep  the  dough  as  cold  as  possible 


THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK 


and  if,  while  working,  it  seems  to  get  too  soft  and  warm,  set 
it  away  for  10  or  15  minutes  in  an  ice  box,  and  finish  rolling 
with  butter  after  it  is  good  and  cold  again. — [Mrs.  P.  A.  B.,  111. 

Baked  Pie  Crust 

All  pie  crust  made  of  lard  should  be  handled  as  little  as  pos- 
sible, in  order  that  it  may  be  tender  and  feathery.  In  mak- 
ing crusts  to  be  used  for  lemon  or  cream  pies,  or  any  that  have 
to  be  baked  before  the  filling  is  put  in,  instead  of  the  inside  I 
cover  the  outside  of  my  pie  tins  with  the  dough.  Prick  with  a 
fork  and  turn  the  tin  upside  down  to  bake.  In  this  way  the 
crust  will  not  shrink  or  puff  as  it  is  likely  to  do  if  put  on  the 
Inside.  When  done  it  can  be  slipped  off  and  put  inside  and  is 
then  ready  to  fill.  I  use  the  same  method  when  making  tart 
shells  in  patty  tins. — [Mrs.  L.  M,  D.,  Mich. 

Mince  Meat     I 

To  1  qt  raw  chopped  beef,  add  1  pt  chopped  suet,  2  qts 
chopped  apples,  1  qt  cider  (sweet  or  sour),  1  pt  thick  boiled 
cider,  ^  pt  molasses,  1  pt  liquor  in  which  the  meat  was  cooked, 
1  pt  brown  sugar,  1  tablesp  each  cinnamon,  allspice,  nutmeg, 
and  salt,  ly^  tablesp  cloves;  also  seeded  raisins  in  abundance. 
Boil  together  two  hours,  except  apples  and  raisins,  which 
should  be  added  the  last  half  hour.  If  liked  add  butter  to  these 
pies  when  baking  them. — [Mrs.  J.  C.  McC,  Vt. 

Mince  Meat    n 

To  2  pts  lean  boiled  beef  chopped  fine,  add  4  pts  tart  apples, 
1  pt  sweet  apples,  1  pt  molasses,  1  pt  boiled  cider,  %  pt  vinegar, 
1  lb  each  seeded  raisins  and  currants,  1  lb  brown  sugar,  1 
teasp  each  salt,  allspice  and  cloves,  2  teasp  cinnamon,  1  grated 
nutmeg,  the  grated  rind  of  1  lemon  and  1  orange,  and  the 
juice  of  both.  Mix  thoroughly,  bring  to  a  boil,  and  set  away  in 
fruit  cans.     This  will  keep  a  long  time. — [Mrs.  M.  A.  B.,  Tenn. 

Mince  Meat  HI 

To  4  lbs  beef,  cooked  and  chopped,  add  3  lbs  chopped  suet, 
8  lbs  seeded  raisins,  4  lbs  currants,  8  lbs  sugar,  16  lbs  chopped 
apples,  1  tablesp  each  allspice,  nutmeg,  cloves  and  cinnamon; 
any  kind  fruit  juice  or  jelly — sweet  pickle  or  canned  fruit  juice 
— to  make  1  gal,  and  1  qt  cider  or  vinegar.  Mix  well,  boil  up 
once  and  put  away  in  jars.  This  does  not  need  air-tight  sealing. 
Tie  closely  with  paper  and  keep  in  a  dark,  dry,  and  cool  place. 
— [Mrs.-'C.  T.  C.s  New  Mex. 


84  THE   ORANGE   JUDD   COOK  BOOK 


Pork  Mince 

At  pig  killing  time  save  1  head,  1  heart,  and  2%  lbs 
tenderloin.  Wash  and  scrape  the  first  two  thoroughly  and  put 
on  altogether  and  cook  until  perfectly  tender.  Remove  bones 
and  grind  fine  in  a  meat  chopper,  add  3  lbs  chopped  apples,  2 
lbs  each  seeded  raisins  and  currants,  ^4  lb  chopped  citron,  2  or 
3  oranges  (grated  yellow  rind  and  chopped  pulp,  discarding 
seeds  and  white  peel),  2  lbs  sugar,  1  tablesp  cinnamon,  and 
enough  cider  to  make  it  as  juicy  as  liked.  Cook  in  a  granite 
kettle  until  the  fruit  is  done,  being  careful  not  to  let  it  scorch. 
Have  ready  some  glass  fruit  jars,  pack  the  mince  in  these 
and  seal  while  hot.  Keep  in  a  cool,  dark,  and  dry  place.  This 
makes  excellent  mince  pies,  and  just  as  good  as  any  beef  mince 
pie  I  ever  tasted. — [Mrs.  A.  C,  W.  Va. 

Green  Tomato  Mince 

Chop  fine,  drain  off  the  juice,  and  then  measure  6  cups 
green  tomatoes,  add  6  cups  sour  chopped  apples,  4  cups  brown 
Bugar,  2  cups  molasses,  V^  cup  butter,  y^  cup  vinegar,  and  1 
tablesp  salt.  Cook  about  3  hours,  and  when  nearly  done  add 
Vz  grated  nutmeg,  1  scant  teasp  cloves  and  1  teasp  each  all- 
spice and  cinnamon.  If  liked  add  raisins  when  making  these 
pies.  Every  one  enjoys  our  "mince"  pies,  and  will  hardly 
believe  it  when  I  tell  them  it  is  only  tomato  pie.  We  put  up 
a  large  quantity  of  this  mince  every  fall. —  [Miss  M.  E.  B.,  Mich. 

Lemon   Pie 

Moisten  1  heaping  tablesp  corn  starch  in  a  little  cold  water, 
add  1  cup  boiling  water,  and  cook  until  the  corn  starch  is  done, 
then  add  1  teasp  butter,  1  cup  sugar;  remove  from  fire,  stir 
vigorously,  and  when  cooled  off  a  little  add  1  well-beaten  egg 
and  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  1  lemon.  Bake  between  two 
crusts. —  [Mrs.  N.  J.,  Mont. 

Mock  Lemon  Pie 

To  1  cup  sugar  add  1  heaping  tablesp  flour,  the  beaten  yolks 
of  2  eggs,  1  teasp  lemon  extract,  %  cup  stewed  rhubarb,  and 
Vz  cup  boiling  water.  Bake  in  an  under  crust,  and  when  done 
cover  with  a  meringue  made  of  the  egg  whites  and  powdered 
sugar.  Return  to  the  oven  a  few  minutes  to  brown  lightly. — 
[Mrs.  J.  H.  P.,  O. 

Quick   Lemon   Pie 

To  1  cup  sugar  add  yolks  of  2  eggs,  1  cup  sweet  milk,  1 
cup  bread  crumbs  (run  through  the  meat  chopper),  grated 
rind  and  juice  of  1  lemon,  and  a  little  salt.  Bake  with  an 
under  crust  and  frost  with  a  meringue  made  of  the  ^z?^ 
whites  and  powdered  sugar.  This  is  enough  for  one  pie. — ^ 
j;Mrs.  F.  D.  D.,  N.  Y. 


THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK         85 


Lemon   Raisin   Pie 

To  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  1  lemon,  add  1  cup  boiling 
water,  1  cup  sugar,  1  cup  seeded  raisins,  a  lump  butter  the  size 
of  a  walnut,  and  2  tablesp  flour  mixed  with  a  very  little  cold 
water.  Boil  all  together  and  then  bake  between  two  crusts. — 
[Mrs.  D.  J.  C,  N.  Y. 

Plum  Butter  Pie 

To  1  cup  butter  add  1  cup  sugar,  1  cup  plum  butter,  and 
yolks  of  4  eggs.  Beat  well  and  flavor  with  lemon  extract. 
Line  well  greased  pie  pans  with  good  rich  crust  and  pour  in 
this  mixture,  and  bake.  When  done  spread  with  a  meringue 
made  of  the  whites  of  4  eggs  and  powdered  sugar,  flavored 
with  vanilla.  Return  to  the  oven  a  few  minutes  until  a  deli- 
cate brown.  The  above  quantity  is  enough  for  two  pies. — 
[Mrs.  W.  T.  G.,  Mo. 

Cranberry  Pie 

Line  a  well  greased  pie  tin  with  a  good  rich  pie  crust,  fill 
with  prepared  cranberry  sauce,  and  cover  the  top  with  a  lattice 
work  of  the  dough.  Cut  the  strips  about  an  inch  wide  and 
lay  them  across  the  top  about  an  inch  apart,  first  horizontally, 
then  vertically,  and  then  tuck  in  the  edges.  Be  careful  to 
have  a  standing  edge  of  dough  all  around  the  pie  high  enough 
to  prevent  the  juices  from  running  over. —  [N.  M.  P.,  N.  H. 

Pineapple  Pie 

Cream  l^  cup  butter  with  1  cup  powdered  sugar,  add  2 
beaten  egg  yolks,  and  1  small  pineapple,  grated  fine.  Lastly 
add  the  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs,  and  turn  this  mixture  into 
a  pastry  lined  pie  plate.  Bake  with  an  under  crust  only. — 
[Mrs.  J.  K.,  N.  Y. 

Elderberry  Pie  I 

To  1  cup  ripe  or  canned  elderberries,  juice  strained  off,  add 
1  tablesp  flour  mixed  with  1  cup  sour  cream,  and  V2  cup  sugar. 
Bake  in  an  under  crust  and  serve  while  warm. —  [Mrs.  O.  E. 
W.,  O. 

Elderberry  Pie  II 

Line  a  pie  plate  with  a  good  rich  crust,  sprinkle  a  little  flour 
over  it,  cover  with  a  layer  of  sliced  apples,  and  fill  up  with 
elderberries.  Allow  1  cup  sugar  and  2  tablesp  vinegar  for  each 
pie.  Bake  between  two  crusts  in  a  slow  oven. — [Mrs.  A.  W. 
T..  Mich. 


86  THE   ORANGE  JUDD   COOK  BOOK 


Banana  Pie  I 

Bake  an  under  crust  and  when  it  is  done  fill  up  with  sliced 
bananas  and  sprinkle  over  powdered  sugar  to  taste.  Set  in  a 
hot  oven  for  a  few  minutes,  then  cover  with  whipped  cream 
and  serve  at  once. — [Mrs.  J.  K.,  N.  Y. 

Banana  Pie  II 

Line  deep  pie  plate  with  a  rich  crust  and  fill  with  ripe 
bananas  sliced  thin,  and  pour  over  a  custard  made  of  2  well- 
beaten  eggs,  2  tablesp  sugar,  1  teasp  orange  extract,  and  li/6 
cups  milk.  Bake  in  an  under  crust  and  frost  with  a  meringue 
made  of  the  whites  of  the  eggs  and  powdered  sugar. — [H.  L. 
N.,  Mass. 

Rhubarb  Pie 

Over  3  cups  finely  chopped  rhubarb  pour  cold  water  to 
cover.  Let  stand  10  minutes  and  then  drain.  In  another 
bowl  mix  2  tablesp  flour  with  1%  cups  sugar,  the  yolks  of  2 
eggs  and  1  heaping  tablesp  butter.  Beat  this  mixture  well, 
then  add  the  chopped  rhubarb.  Bake  in  an  under  crust  and 
when  done  frost  the  top  with  a  meringue  made  of  2  egg  whites 
and  G  tablesp  powdered  sugar.  Return  to  the  oven  a  few 
minutes  to  brown  lightly.  This  quantity  is  sufficient  for  two 
pies. — [Miss  E.  S.,  Kan. 

Mince  Rhubarb  Pie 

To  1  cup  rhubarb,  measured  after  chopping  fine,  add  %  cup 
each  sugar,  molasses,  water  and  seeded  and  chopped  raisins,  1 
large  soda  cracker  or  a  slice  of  thoroughly  dried  bread  rolled 
fine,  1  egg,  1  scant  teasp  cinnamon,  a  little  cloves,  nutmeg,  salt 
and  1  tablesD  melted  butter.  This  is  enough  for  two  pies. — 
[Mrs.  C.  E.  A.,  N.  H. 

Cherry  Pie 

Mix  together  1  pt  stoned  cherries,  4  heaping  tablesp  sugar 
and  1  heaping  tablesp  flour.  Fill  into  a  pie  tin  lined  with 
paste,  sprinkle  a  little  flour  over  the  top,  cover  with  an  upper 
crust,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. — [Mrs.  O.  M.  P.,  N.  H. 

Mock  Cherry  Pie 

Cut  in  halves  1  cup  cranberries  and  add  %  cup  raisins, 
seeded  and  also  cut  in  halves,  1  cup  sugar,  1  tablesp  flour,  1 
teasp  vanilla,  and  1  cup  water.  Bake  between  two  crusts.— 
[Mrs.  F.  E.  P.,  Wash. 


THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK         87 


Fresh  Currant  Pie 

To  1  cup  ripe  currants,  mashed  fine,  add  1  cup  sugar,  2 
iablesp  cold  water  mixed  with  1  heaping  tablesp  flour,  and 
beaten  yolks  of  2  eggs.  Bake  in  an  under  crust  until  firm. 
Use  the  whites  of  the  eggs  with  3  tablesp  powdered  sugar,  as  a 
meringue.  Sometimes  I  beat  up  a  tablesp  of  currant  jelly  with 
the  meringue.  Spread  the  meringue  on  the  pie  after  it  has 
cooled  off. —  [Mrs.  H.  J.  T.,  Vt. 

Custard  Pie  I 

To  2  well-beaten  eggs  add  scant  ^^  cup  sugar,  a  pinch  of  salt, 
and  1  teasp  flour.  Beat  all  well  together  and  then  stir  in  milk 
enough  to  fill  a  pie  tin,  lined  with  a  good  rich  crust.  Grate  a 
little  nutmeg  over  the  pie,  if  liked.  This  is  fine — the  flour 
seems  to  add  to  the  richness  of  the  custard  and  because  of  its 
use  less  eggs  are  required. —  [Mrs.  F.  H.  M.,  N.  Y. 

Custard  Pie  11 

To  the  yolks  of  4  eggs  and  the  whites  of  2  eggs  add  2  cups 
rich  creamy  milk,  i/^  cup  sugar,  i^  teasp  salt  and  any  preferred 
flavoring.  Pour  this  into  a  pie  tin  lined  with  a  good  crust 
and  bake.  When  done  frost  with  a  meringue  made  of  the 
whites  of  2  eggs  and  2  tablesp  powdered  sugar.  Return  to  the 
oven  a  few  minutes  to  brown  lightly. —  [Mrs.  L.  G.,  Cal. 

Apple  Pie 

To  1  cup  pastry  flour  sifted  with  small  Vz  teasp  cream  tartar 
and  half  as  much  soda,  add  1  large  tablesp  shortening,  and  mix 
with  rich  milk  to  the  proper  consistency  for  rolling.  Line  a 
well  greased  pie  tin  with  this  dough  and  fill  up  with  part  applea 
cut  in  small  pieces,  3  or  4  tablesp  sugar,  and  a  little  butter 
and  nutmeg.  Cover  with  an  upper  crust;  and  then  pour  over 
cold  water,  allowing  the  superfluous  water  to  run  off.  Put  in 
a  hot  oven,  and  after  it  is  browned  nicely,  cover  with  another 
pie  tin  and  then  bake  one  hour  with  reduced  heat.  If  these 
directions  are  carefully  followed  the  result  will  be  a  most 
delicious  apple  pie. —  [Mrs.  J.  L.  D..  Mass. 

Apple  Turnover 

Butter  a  pie  plate  and  fill  it  with  sliced  apples,  then  cover 
with  a  crust  made  of  1  cup  flour  sifted  with  1  teasp  baking 
powder  and  a  pinch  of  salt,  1  tablesp  butter,  and  cold  water  to 
make  the  proper  consistency  to  roll.  Bake  and  when  done 
turn  over  on  a  plate,  sweeten  to  taste,  and  serve  with  thick, 
sweet  cream. — [Mrs.  F.  B.  S.,  N.  Y. 


88         THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK 


Apple  Custard  Pie 

Slice  thin  3  large  sour  apples  and  put  a  layer  of  these  in  a 
pie  plate  lined  with  a  rich  crust,  sprinkle  with  sugar,  then  put 
on  another  layer  of  apples,  more  sugar,  and  so  on  until  the  dish 
is  full.  Grate  over  it  a  little  nutmeg,  add  1  tablesp  butter  in 
little  bits  distributed  over  the  surface,  3  tablesp  rich,  sweet 
cream,  and  3  tablesp  water.  Bake  in  an  under  crust. — [Mrs, 
M.  H.,  Mo. 

Date  Pie 

Stone  1  large  cup  dates  and  cook  until  soft  with  just 
enough  hot  water  to  cover,  then  add  2  tablesp  sugar,  1  cup 
rich  milk,  small  bit  of  butter,  1  beaten  egg  and  1  tablesp  flour. 
Bake  in  an  under  crust  and  when  done  spread  the  top  with  a 
meringue  made  of  the  white  of  an  egg  and  powdered  sugar, 
and  return  to  the  oven  a  few  minutes  to  slightly  brown. — [Eo 
I.,  Me. 

Cocoanut   Pie 

To  1  pt  scalded  milk  add  l^  cup  sugar,  the  beaten  yolks  of  2 
eggs,  and  1  level  tablesp  corn  starch  dissolved  in  a  little  cold 
milk.  Bring  to  a  boil,  stirring  to  prevent  the  mixture  from 
getting  lumpy,  then  add  1  cup  grated  or  shredded  cocoanut, 
which  has  been  soaked  in  milk  over  night.  Bake  in  an  under 
crust  only.  When  done  spread  with  a  meringue  made  of  the 
whites  of  2  eggs  and  2  tablesp  powdered  sugar.  Return  to  the 
oven  a  few  minutes  to  brown  lightly.  This  quantity  is  suflficient 
for  two  pies. — [Miss  E.  K.,  Ind. 

Cream  Pie 

Put  2  cups  sweet  milk  in  a  double  boiler,  add  %  cup  sugar,  4 
tablesp  flour  wet  with  a  little  cold  milk,  the  beaten  yolk  of  1 
egg,  and  cook  until  thick;  then  remove  from  fire  and  stir  in 
butter  the  size  of  a  walnut.  When  cool  flavor  with  vanilla,  or 
if  preferred,  cook  some  grated  orange  peel  with  the  cream. 
Line  a  pie  plate  with  rich  pie  crust,  rub  the  inside  well  with 
flour,  fill  with  the  above  mixture  and  bake.  When  done  and 
cooled,  frost  with  a  meringue  made  of  the  egg  whites  beaten 
stiff  and  3  tablesp  powdered  sugar,  and  return  to  the  oven  a 
few  minutes  to  brown. —  [Mrs.  E.  McC,  N.  Y. 

Chocolate  Pie 

Put  1  pt  milk  over  the  fire  in  a  double  boiler.  In  a  bowl 
beat  the  yolks  of  3  eggs,  add  %  cup  sugar  and  1  tablesp  melted 
butter.  Dissolve  I  tablesp  corn  starch  in  a  little  cold  milk 
and  add  to  the  above  mixture  with  3  tablesp  chocolate  melted 


THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK         89 

in  a  saucer  over  the  steaming  tea-kettle.  Stir  this  mixture 
into  the  boiling  milk  and  cook  until  thick,  stirring  vigorously 
all  the  time.  Flavor  with  vanilla.  Pour  this  filling  into  a 
baked  pie  crust,  make  a  meringue  of  the  egg  whites  and  3 
tablesp  powdered  sugar  and  spread  over  the  pie  while  the 
filling  is  still  warm.  Return  to  the  oven  a  few  minutes  and 
brown  lightly. — [Mrs.  A.  I.,  la. 

Buttermilk  Pie 

To  2  cups  sugar  add  2  tablesp  flour,  yolks  of  5  eggs,  white  of 
1  egg,  1  tablesp  butter,  and  after  this  has  been  thoroughly 
mixed,  add  3  cups  buttermilk,  and  1  tablesp  lemon  extract. 
Bake  in  an  under  crust  and  when  done  spread  with  a  meringue 
made  of  the  4  remaining  egg  whites  and  6  tablesp  powdered 
sugar.  Flavor  with  lemon  extract.  Return  to  the  oven  a  few 
minutes  to  brown  lightly.  This  makes  a  good  mock  lemon 
pie. — [Mrs.  G.  W.  B.,  Mont. 

Dutch  Pie 

Pare  and  cut  in  quarters  sour  apples  that  cook  easily,  and 
dispose  these  quarters  in  circles  on  a  pie  tin  lined  with  a  not 
too  rich  crust.  Allow  a  large  enough  edge  for  the  pie  crust 
and  crimp  it  with  your  fingers  or  a  fork.  Crowd  in  all  the 
apples  you  can  without  allowing  them  to  lay  one  on  top  of  the 
other,  then  pour  cold  water  over  them  to  about  half  fill  the 
tin.  Next  sprinkle  over  the  apples  sugar  enough  to  sweeten  to 
taste,  and  also  a  little  cinnamon  or  nutmeg,  if  liked.  Bake 
slowly.  This  pie  is  improved  by  dotting  pieces  of  butter  over 
the  apples. — [Mrs.  E.  C.  S.,  Mo. 

Boiled  Cider  Pie 

To  2  cups  cold  water  add  1%  cups  sugar,  and  %  cup  thick, 
boiled  cider.  Put  this  mixture  over  the  fire  and  let  it  come 
to  a  boil,  then  add  2  or  3  well-beaten  eggs  and  3  tablesp  flour 
wet  with  a  little  cold  water.  Cook  and  stir  until  free 
from  lumps.  Pour  into  baked  under  crusts,  and  frost  with 
meringue  made  from  the  egg  whites  and  powdered  sugar.  This 
is  sufficient  for  two  pies. — [Mrs.  F.  D.  D.,  N.  Y. 

Squash  Pie 

Pie  made  of  good  ripe  squash  can  be  just  as  delicious  as 
pumpkin  pie,  and  even  better,  to  my  mind.  Peel  the  squash, 
scrape  out  pulp  and  seeds,  cut  in  2-inch  pieces,  and  stew 
until  tender  in  water  to  nearly  cover,  then  pour  in  a  colander 
and  let  all  the  water  drain  off.  Mash  thoroughly  and  to  3  qts 
squash,  add  1  qt  rich  sweet  milk,  6  well-beaten  eggs,  2  tablesp 
corn  starch  wet  with  a  little  cold  milk,  3  cups  sugar  (it  should 


90         THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK 


taste  quite  sweet  before  baking),  Yz  a  grated  nutmeg,  2  teasp 
ginger,  and  1  teasp  cinnamon.  Fill  this  mixture  into  deep  plates 
lined  with,  a  good,  rich  crust.  Shake  some  cinnamon  over  the 
filling  and  bake  in  a  good,  steady  oven  until  the  center  is  firm 
and  the  crust  nicely  browned. —  [R.  A.  McD.,  S.  D. 

Green  Pumpkin  Pie 

Choose  a  green  pumpkin  just  showing  first  yellow  streaks; 
cook  until  tender,  rub  through  a  colander,  and  to  each  pint 
pumpkin  pulp  add  %  cup  sugar,  1  tablesp  butter,  1  tablesp 
flour,  3  tablesp  vinegar,  1  teasp  cinnamon  and  a  little  allspice, 
and  1  beaten  egg.  Bake  between  two  crusts.  This  tastes  very 
much  like  green  apple  pie. —  [Mrs.  J.  T.  C,  Minn. 

Pumpkin  Pie 

I  can  highly  recommend  this  recipe.  Pare,  remove  pulp,  cut 
in  small  pieces,  and  cook  pumpkin  5  or  6  hours,  then  strain 
carefully  through  a  colander  and  for  4  cups  strained  pumpkin 
allow  4  cups  rich  milk,  4  well-beaten  eggs,  1  heaping  cup  brown 
sugar,  1  teasp  salt,  i/^  a  grated  nutmeg,  2  teasp  ginger  and  Vz 
teasp  mace.  The  milk  should  be  heated  and  added  gradually 
to  the  seasoned  pumpkin,  stirring  constantly,  and  lastly  add 
the  eggs  well-beaten.  Turn  into  deep  pie  plates  lined  with 
rich  pastry.  Be  sure  to  have  the  pumpkin  mixture  hot.  Bake 
to  a  rich  brown;  it  will  take  about  one  hour. —  [R.  M.,  Mich. 

Green  Tomato  Pie 

Line  a  pie  dish  with  rich  pastry.  Slice  into  it  enough  green 
tomatoes,  very  thin,  to  fill  it,  sprinkle  with  a  little  cinnamon 
and  cloves,  1  tablesp  molasses,  1  tablesp  sugar  (or  more),  and 
a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice  or  vinegar.  Bake  between  two 
crusts. —  [Mrs.  C.  E.  G.,  Ariz. 

Sweet   Potato   Pie 

Wash  and  boil  3  good  sized  sweet  potatoes  until  tender,  tlien 
peel  and  rub  through  a  colander,  add  the  beaten  yolks  of  3 
eggs,  with  1  pt  sweet  milk,  1  cup  sugar,  Vz  cup  melted  butter, 
and  flavor  with  lemon  or  vanilla.  Bake  in  an  under  crust,  and 
when  done  cover  with  a  meringue  made  of  the  whites  of  3  eggs 
and  powdered  sugar.  Return  to  the  oven  for  a  few  minutes  to 
brown  lightly.  I  also  make  pumpkin  pie  by  this  recipe,  by  sub- 
stituting the  same  quantity  of  pumpkin  for  sweet  potatoes. — 
[Mrs.  Z.  T.  T.,  N.  C. 

Carrot  Pie 

Wash  and  peel  2  or  3  good  sized  carrots,  stew  until  tendef,' 
pour  water  off,  mash  fine  with  potato  masher,  and  to  1  cup 


THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK         91 


mashed  carrots  add  1  tablesp  sugar,  1  beaten  egg,  1  level  teasp 
mixed  spices,  Vz  pt  milk  and  salt  to  taste.  Bake  with  an. 
under  crust  only. —  [Mrs.  B.  L.  G.,  Ore. 

Butternut  Pie 

To  y2  cup  milk  add  Vz  cup  cream,  scant  %  cup  sugar,  2  well- 
beaten  eggs,  and  1  cup  butternut  meats,  chopped  fine.  Bake 
between  two  crusts.  When  eggs  are  scarce  use  1  egg  and  1 
teasp  flour. —  [Mrs.  J.  C.  H.,  Vt. 

Cottage  Cheese  Pie 

To  1  cup  cottage  cheese  add  1  cup  sweet  cream,  1  beaten  egg, 
3  tablesp  sugar,  mixed  with  1  tabiesp  flour,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and 
cinnamon  to  taste.  Bake  in  an  under  crust.  The  cottage 
cheese  is  made  by  placing  some  clabber  milk  over  the  fire  and 
letting  it  warm  through  and  then  pouring  it  in  a  cheese  cloth 
bag,  and  hanging  it  up.  When  the  whey  has  dropped  out,  mix 
the  cheese  smooth  with  a  little  sweet  cream  and  salt  it  to 
taste. —  [Mrs.  E.  C,  Mo. 

Rice  Pie 

P'"  Mix  together  1  cup  sweet  milk,  2  beaten  egg  yolks,  V2  cup 
sugar,  y2  cup  boiled  rice,  and  a  piece  of  butter  as  large  as  a 
walnut.  Beat  thoroughly,  put  in  a  double  boiler  and  cook 
until  the  egg  is  done.  Remove  from  fire,  flavor  to  taste,  and 
pour  the  mixture  into  a  baked  pie  shell,  and  cover  with  a 
meringue  made  with  the  whites  of  the  eggs  and  a  little  pow- 
dered sugar.  Put  in  the  oven  a  few  minutes  to  brown  lightly. 
When  cold  drop  small  lumps  of  jelly  around  on  the  top. —  [M. 
F.  P.,  N.  Y. 

Fried  Pies 

These  are  very  nice  and  when  fried  just  right,  so  as  not  to 
soak  fat,  are  every  bit  as  good  as  baked  pies.  Roll  some 
biscuii  dough  quite  thin,  cut  in  small  pieces  of  any  desired  size 
or  shape,  put  on  each  piece  a  small  spoonful  of  hot  mince  meat, 
fold  the  crust  over  and  pinch  the  edges  together  securely  all 
around  so  it  will  not  open  anywhere  while  frying,  and  fry 
these  small  individual  mince  pies  in  hot  lard  until  a  delicate 
brown,  same  as  doughnuts.  If  you  have  never  tasted  any  like 
these  you  have  a  real  treat  in  store. —  [I.  A.  S.,  Me. 

Fig  Pie 

To  1  cup  molasses  add  1  cup  sugar,  the  grated  rind  of  1 
lemon,  %  lb  figs,  cut  fine,  2  cups  water,  1  beaten  egg,  2  tablesp 
flour,  and  a  little  salt.  This  is  enough  for  two  pies. —  [Mrs. 
W.  L.  J.,  Vt. 


92  THE   ORANGE   JUDD   COOK  BOOK 


Prune  Pie 

To  1  cup  stewed,  stoned  and  chopped  prunes,  add  3  tablesp 
of  the  liquid  they  were  stewed  in,  i/^  cup  sugar,  a  little  lemon 
juice  and  1  teasp  orange  extract.  Bake  between  two  crusts. — 
[L.  v.,  111. 

Raspberry  Pie 

Cook  together  1  cup  raspberries,  1  cup  currants,  1  scant  cup 
sugar,  1  tablesp  flour,  and  yolks  of  2  eggs.  Pour  this  filling  into 
a  baked  under  crust,  cover  with  the  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs 
and  2  tablesp  powdered  sugar,  and  place  in  the  oven  a  few 
minutes  to  brown  lightly. —  [Miss  I.  A.,  N.  Y. 

Canned  Peach  Pie 

Line  a  deep  pie  plate  with  rich  crust  and  bake.  Then  fill 
with  canned  peaches  cut  in  quarters,  sprinkle  over  it  1  cup 
sugar  and  a  little  of  the  peach  juice.  Beat  1  or  2  eggs,  yolks 
and  whites  separately,  adding  a  little  powdered  sugar  to  the 
whites  and  then  stir  the  whites  and  yolks  together  and  pour  this 
over  the  fruit  in  the  pie  shell.  Set  in  the  oven  a  few  minutes  to 
brown  lightly. —  [Mrs.  E.  P.  C,  Me. 

Evaporated  Peach  Pie 

Soak  over  night  1  lb  evaporated  or  dried  peaches,  wash  thor- 
oughly, drain,  and  add  just  enough  fresh  water  to  cook  them 
without  making  too  much  juice.  When  done  strain  through 
a  sieve,  add  sugar  and  salt  to  taste  and  4  crackers,  or  3  or  4 
slices  of  dried  bread,  rolled  fine.  Bake  between  two  crusts. — 
[Mrs.  E.  M.,  N.  Y. 

Apricot  Custard  Pie 

lAne  a  deep  pie  plate  with  custard.  Put  in  a  layer  of  juicy 
stewed  apricots,  and  bake  quickly.  Meanwhile  put  1^/4  cups 
rich  milk  on  to  heat  in  a  double  boiler.  Moisten  1  tablesp 
corn  starch  with  a  little  cold  milk  and  stir  into  the  hot  milk. 
Beat  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  with  a  pinch  of  salt  and  Vz  cup  sugar, 
and  add  to  the  hot  mixture  and  cook  another  minute  or  two. 
Then  remove  from  the  fire  and  flavor  with  i/^  teasp  vanilla  and 
pour  the  custard  over  the  fruit  in  the  pie.  Make  a  meringue 
of  the  whites  of  2  eggs  beaten  stiff  with  1  tablesp  powdered 
sugar,  spread  over  the  pie  and  return  to  the  oven  a  few 
minutes  to  brown  lightly.     Serve  cold. —  [L.  H.  C,  Fla. 


When  making  custard  pie  use  the  milk  hot,  and  the  custard 
will  turn  out  much  more  solid. —  [Mrs.  L.  H.,  Pa. 


THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK         93 


Fruit  Shortcakes 
Shortcake  I 

To  1  heaping  tablesp  brown  sugar  add  1  heaping  tablesp 
thick,  sour  cream,  1  small  cup  sweet  milk  in  which  dissolve  a 
pinch  of  soda,  salt,  and  2  teasp  baking  powder  sifted  with  flour 
enough  to  make  a  batter  as  for  layer  cake.  Bake  in  three 
layers.  When  done,  spread  each  layer  with  sweetened  fruit,  and 
pile  some  of  the  fruit  on  top.— [Miss  M.  A.,  Mich. 

Shortcake  II 

Beat  1  egg  and  ^^  cup  sugar  well  together,  add  1  cup  thick, 
sour  cream,  1  teasp  soda  dissolved  in  3  tablesp  hot  water, 
salt,  and  flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff  dough  that  will  drop 
from  the  spoon.  Bake  about  ^  hour  in  a  quick  oven.  When 
done,  remove  from  tin,  dip  a  sharp  knife  in  hot  water,  and  cut 
open  the  cake.  Any  kind  of  fruit  may  be  used  as  filling.  To  be 
eaten  with  sweetened  cream. —  [Mrs.  J.  O.  W.,  N.  Y. 

Buckwheat  Shortcake 

To  3  cups  buttermilk  add  1  teasp  soda  and  buckwheat  flour 
to  make  a  dough  a  little  thicker  than  for  griddle  cakes.  Spread 
in  greased  pans  about  1  inch  thick.  This  is  a  very  fine  and 
wholesome  shortcake,  without  shortening.  Do  not  use  any 
eggs  or  shortening. —  [Mrs.  J.  S.,  Pa. 

Rhubarb  Shortcake 

Make  a  shortcake  of  rich  biscuit  dough  and  when  done,  split 
open,  butter  each  piece,  and  spread  with  sweetened  rhubarb, 
which  has  been  stewed  in  a  double  boiler  without  a  bit  of  water 
being  added.  Garnish  with  whipped  cream  and  serve  v^^arm.  If 
no  double  boiler  is  at  hand,  one  may  be  improvised  by  setting  a 
granite  covered  basin  inside  of  another  larger  dish,  which  has 
been  partially  filled  with  boiling  water. —  [Mrs.  N.  M.  P.,  N.  H. 

Peach  Shortcake 

To  the  beaten  yolks  of  2  eggs  add  Vz  cup  milk,  1  tablesp 
melted  butter  and  1  cup  pastry  flour  sifted  with  1  teasp  bak- 
ing powder.  Beat  well  and  then  fold  in  the  beaten  whites  of 
the  eggs.  Pour  into  a  shallow  greased  pan,  having  the  batter 
about  1  inch  thick,  and  cover  the  top  with  peeled  and  sliced 
peaches,  over  which  sprinkle  Vz  cup  sugar.  Bake  until  the 
fruit  is  tender,  and  serve  with  cream. —  [Mrs.  A.  C.  McP. 


94         THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK 


Strawberry    Shortcake  I 

To  1  qt  wheat  flour  sifted  with  3  teasp  baking  powder,  add 
2  tablesp  sugar,  1  teasp  salt,  2  tablesp  lard,  2  tablesp  butter, 
melted,  1  pt  sweet  milk,  and  2  eggs  well  beaten.  Roll  and 
bake  in  square  tins.  When  done,  split  the  cake  open  and  fill 
with  strawberries  prepared  as  follows:  Crush  berries  lightly 
and  mix  with  sugar  to  taste  and  thick  sweet  cream.  This 
same  recipe  is  nice  for  any  kind  of  fruit. — [Miss  M.  E.  K., 
N.  Y. 

Strawberry  Shortcake  11 

Make  a  rich  biscuit  dough,  roll  about  1  inch  thick,  bake, 
and  when  done  split  open,  butter  each  piece  generously,  and 
between  them  put  strawberries  lightly  crushed  and  well  sweet- 
ened.    Serve  warm  with  cream. —  [M.  D.  M.,  Kans. 

Blueberry  Shortcake 

Bake  a  shortcake  from  a  rich  biscuit  dough  and  when  done 
split  open  and  fill  with  the  following:  To  1  qt  blueberries 
add  Vz  cup  water,  1  cup  sugar  and  1  tablesp  cornstarch.  Boil 
about  10  minutes. — [Mrs.  L.  S.,  Minn. 

Huckleberry  Shortcake 

Bake  any  preferred  shortcake  and  while  it  is  baking  stew  2 
qts  fresh  huckleberries  and  sweeten  to  taste.  When  the  cake 
is  done,  split  open  and  spread  each  piece  with  butter,  place  on 
a  platter  and  between  each  layer  put  plenty  of  the  stewed 
berries,  also  some  on  top.  Serve  with  sauce  made  as  follows: 
Mix  thoroughly  1  cup  sugar  with  2  tablesp  flour,  pour  over 
this  some  boiling  water  and  cook  until  of  the  right  con- 
sistency, stirring  well.  Then  add  1  tablesp  butter,  a  pinch  of 
salt  and  flavor  with  lemon  or  vanilla  extract. — [Mrs.  A.  C„ 
Mass. 

Biscuits  with  Berries 

Take  cold  biscuits  (one  for  each  person  to-  be  served), 
split  open,  spread  each  half  liberally  with  butter  and  place 
in  the  oven  to  get  hot.  To  1  qt  strawberries  add  1  cup  sugar 
and  mash  to  a  pulp.  Put  half  hot  biscuit  on  a  plate,  spread 
with  mashed  and  sweetened  berries,  then  put  the  other  half 
of  the  biscuit  on  top  and  cover  with  more  berries.  To  be 
served  warm  or  cold  with  sweet  cream.  Raspberries  or  black- 
berries can  be  used  the  same  way,  either  fresh  or  canned. — 
[Mrs.  M.  M.  B.,  Mo. 


THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK         95 


Strawberry  Sauce  for  Shortcake 

Cream  together  1  cup  butter  and  1  lb  powdered  sugar. 
Pick,  wash  and  drain  carefully  1  qt  ripe  strawberries  and  add 
these  to  the  butter  and  sugar  cream,  crushing  tbout  three 
quarters  of  the  berries.  Have  three  layers  of  shortcake  ready, 
spread  the  sauce  between  each  layer  and  decorate  the  top 
with  some  whole  berries.  This  should  be  prepared  about 
half  hour  before  serving. — [Mrs.  C.  von  W.,  N.  J. 

Strawberry  Cobbler 

Sift  1  qt  flour  with  2  teasp  baking  powder  and  a  pinch  of 
salt.  Cut  %  cup  butter  (or  butter  and  lard  mixed)  into  the 
flour  and  add  sweet  milk  enough  to  make  a  dough  that  can 
be  handled.  Roll  out  a  third  of  the  dough,  large  enough  to 
cover  the  baking  pan  you  intend  to  use,  and  bake  at  once 
in  a  separate  tin.  This  is  to  be  used  as  a  middle  crust. 
Meanwhile  roll  out  the  rest  of  the  dough  to  line  a  deep  bak- 
ing pan,  half  fill  with  strawberries,  sprinkle  liberally  with 
sugar,  put  on  the  baked  middle  crust  and  then  finish  filling 
the  pan  with  berries,  sprinkle  with  sugar,  and  cover  the  top 
with  a  crust,  first  cutting  a  number  of  air  holes  in  it.  Bake, 
and  serve  warm  with  sweetened  cream. — [Mrs.  B.  B.,  la. 

Peach  or  Berry  Cobbler 

Half  fill  an  enameled  pan,  well  buttered,  with  either  berries 
or  peaches  cut  fine,  sprinkle  with  a  liberal  amount  of  sugar 
and  dot  generously  with  butter,  lastly  sprinkling  with  some 
flour.  Cover  the  top  with  a  layer  of  shortcake  dough  in 
which  cut  a  few  air  holes.  Bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven. — ^ 
[Mrs.  W.  W.  P.,  Okla. 

Cranberry  Mound 

Make  a  rich  biscuit  dough,  roll  out  Vz  inch  thick,  cut  into 
four  different  sized  circles,  ranging  from  two  to  six  inches. 
Cover  each  circle  with  a  layer  of  finely  chopped  cranberries  and 
a  thick  sprinkling  of  sugar,  then  place  the  larger  circle  on  a 
well  buttered  plate,  cover  with  the  next  smallest  circle,  and  so 
on,  the  smallest  circle  coming  on  top.  Set  in  a  steamer  and 
steam  %  hour.  Serve  with  cream  and  sugar,  or  if  preferred, 
a  hot,  sweet  sauce. — [N.  M.  P.,  N.  H. 

Cherry  Rolls 

Roll  out  a  rich  biscuit  dough  about  1  inch  thick,  cover 
with  ripe,  pitted  cherries  (first  draining  off  the  juice),  sprinkle 
plentifully   with   sugar,   fold    one   side   of   the   cake   over   the 


96  THE   ORANGE   JUDD   COOK   BOOK 

other,  to  form  a  long  narrow  roll,  pinch  the  edges,  and  then 
with  a  sharp  knife  cut  off  sections  the  size  you  wish  to  serve 
to  each  person.  Lay  these  pieces  in  a  bread  pan,  well  but- 
tered, with  the  cut  side  up,  and  after  all  the  pieces  have  been 
disposed  of,  drop  lumps  of  butter  over  all  and  sprinkle  with 
1  cup  sugar  and  a  very  little  flour.  Then  add  the  cherry 
juice  and  enough  water  to  make  a  sufficient  quantity  of  sauce. 
Bake  until  the  crust  is  done.  This  is  delicious. — [Mrs.  W. 
T.  G.,  Mo. 

Strawberry  Rolls 

Roll  out  a  rich  biscuit  dough  about  ^  inch  thick,  then 
spread  with  lightly  crushed  berries  and  sprinkle  liberally 
with  sugar.  Roll  up  tight  and  pinch  the  ends  closely  together, 
so  that  no  juice  can  escape.  Place  in  a  steamer  and  steam 
steadily  for  one  hour.  Cut  in  slices  and  serve  with  any  pre- 
ferred sweet  sauce. — [Mrs.  M.  P.,  N.  H. 

Rhubarb  Rolls 

Mix  up  a  rich,  short  biscuit  dough  and  roll  out  about  V2 
inch  thick,  cover  with  a  layer  of  finely  cut  raw  rhubarb, 
sprinkle  thickly  with  sugar,  roll  up,  put  it  in  a  buttered  tin 
and  steam  40  minutes.  Then  put  in  a  hot  oven  just  long 
enough  to  dry  off.  Serve  warm  with  a  hard  sauce. — [Mrs.  N. 
P..  N.  H. 

Cheese  Straws 

To  4  tablesp  grated  cheese  add  2  tablesp  butter,  1  cup  flour,  a 
pinch  salt,  and  cayenne  pepper,  and  mix  with  a  little  cold  water 
to  the  proper  consistency.  Roll  about  %  inch  th^.ck,  cut  in 
strips  V2  inch  wide  and  3  inches  long,  and  bake  in  a  not  too 
hot  oven. — [Miss  N.  P.,  S.  C. 

Cheese  Patties 

Roll  out  in  a  sheet  about  %  inch  thick  some  ordinary  pie 
flough  and  cut  in  triangular  pieces.  In  the  center  of  each 
place  a  spoonful  grated  cheese,  sprinkled  with  a  little  pepper, 
lap  one  end  of  the  dough  over  on  the  other,  press  the  edges 
together  with  a  fork  and  bake. — [Mrs.  H.  L.,  Va. 

Cocoanut  Patties 

Boil  together  about  8  or  10  minutes  1  cup  sugar  and  V2  pt 
boiling  water,  then  add  V2  cup  grated  cocoanut,  and  boil  about 
8  minutes  more,  after  which  remove  from  the  fire  and  add  2 
well-beaten  eggs.  Line  little  patty  pans  with  ordinary  pie 
crust,  put  a  tablesp  of  the  above  mixture  in  each,  and 
bake  in  a  hot  oven. — [Mrs.  M.  W.,  Me. 


Qakes,  Fillings  and  Prostin^s 

OR  cakes  and  in  all  branches  of  cookery  it 
always  pays  to  use  the  best  and  purest 
ingredients.  Inferior  flours,  or  cheap  sodas, 
baking'  powders,  spices  and  extracts,  inva- 
riably fail  to  give  satisfaction,  because  more 
than  the  ordinary  quantities  are  required, 
and  because  they  are  generally  unpalatable,  and,  most  im- 
portant of  all,  because  they  are  positively  injurious  to 
health.  If  you  must  practice  economy,  do  so  in  quantity, 
not  quality — in  other  words,  select  plain  recipes  and  leave 
the  fancy  and  more  elaborate  combinations  for  special 
occasions. 

Some  like  cakes  very  sweet  and  rich,  while  others  do 
not.  In  presenting  the  following  recipes,  the  editor  has 
tried  to  steer  a  middle  course.  It  is  understood  that  salt 
should  be  added  to  every  cake,  although  it  was  not  thought 
necessary  to  repeat  this  in  every  recipe.  The  amount  of 
salt  required  will  vary — less  if  salted  butter  is  used,  and 
more  if  lard  or  any  other  unsalted  drippings  are  used. 

The  recipes  which  follow  were  mostly  furnished  by 
Orange  Judd  readers,  whose  initials  are  signed. 
These  recipes  are  all  claimed  to  be  tried  and  tested,  and 
whatever  else  there  may  or  may  not  be  said  of  them,  they 
certainly  sound  "tasty,"  and  most  of  them  have  the  addi- 
tional merit  of  being  economical.  The  assortment  includes 
plain  and  rich  cakes,  "raised"  or  yeast  cakes,  baking  powder 
cakes,  sour  milk,  buttermilk  and  soda  cakes,  eggless  cakes, 
butterless  cakes,  fruit  cakes,  and  various  wholesome  and 
palatable  light  and  dark  cakes,  in  loaves,  layers,  rolls  and 
small  cakes,  together  with  all  sorts  of  fillings  and  frostings. 
It  would  seem  as  though  the  variety  would  be  large  enough 
to  suit  all  tastes. 

97 


9  8         THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK 


General  Directions  for  Baking  Cake 

Measurements  can  be  only  approximately  given,  since  flours 
vary  in  their  capacity  to  absorb  moisture,  and  every  house- 
keeper does  not  measure  with  the  same  sized  cv.^,  or  spoon. 
Therefore  it  will  be  necessary  for  each  cook  to  experiment  to 
some  extent  for  herself.  Bread  flour  should  only  be  used  for 
bread  or  yeast  cakes,  as  it  contains  too  much  gluten,  and  is 
liable  to  make  baking  powder  cakes  too  thick.  Cups  of  dry 
ingredients  are  measured  level,  teaspoons  or  tablespoons  should 
be  rounded,  while  liquid  measure  should  never  be  overflowing 
full.  A  complete  table  of  weights  and  measures  is  given 
elsewhere  in  this  book,  also  an  index  to  the  abbreviations  used. 

Cake  batters  are  usually  mixed  by  first  creaming  together 
the  butter  and  sugar,  then  adding  the  eggs,  one  at  a  time,  and 
beating  them  well  with  the  butter  and  sugar.  Sometimes  only 
the  yolks  are  added,  and  the  beaten  whites  at  the  very  last. 
After  the  eggs,  molasses,  or  milk,  or  whatever  liquid  the  recipe 
calls  for,  is  added,  then  the  flour,  in  which  the  baking  powder 
should  first  be  mixed  dry,  and  all  sifted  together  before  adding 
to  the  other  ingredients. 

The  seeded  or  seedless  raisins  and  the  currants  should  be 
thoroughly  cleaned  and  lightly  dredged  with  flour  before  adding 
to  the  batter,  the  very  last  thing.  Citron  and  candied  lemon 
peel  or  orange  peel,  as  well  as  nut  meats,  should  also  be 
dredged  with  flour  before  adding  to  the  batter.  This  prevents 
the  fruit  from  sticking  together  and  falling  to  the  bottom  of 

When  sour  milk  is  used  in  cake,  it  calls  for  about  1  teaspoon 
saleratus  (soda)  to  each  cup  sour  milk,  or  buttermilk — more 
or  less  soda,  according  to  the  acidity  of  the  milk.  Too  much 
soda  makes  the  cakes  unpalatable,  and  causes  the  objectionable 
little  brown  spots.  Sweet  milk  can  be  substituted  for  sour 
milk  by  omitting  soda,  and  using  baking  powder  instead.  It 
usually  requires  about  1  to  1%  teaspoons  baking  powder  to  2 
cups  flour.  Also,  sour  milk  can  be  substituted  for  sweet  milk 
by  omitting  baking  powder  and  adding  a  teaspoon  soda  to  each 
cup  sour  milk.  One  cup  sour  milk  with  1  teaspoon  saleratus 
generally  equals  about  2  teaspoons  baking  powder  in  "raising" 
power.  A  good  substitute  for  the  "boughten"  baking  powder 
is  made  of  cream  of  tartar  combined  with  saleratus  '«oda^  — 
two  parts  of  the  former  with  one  of  the  latter. 

In  dark  cakes  that  call  for  butter,  any  gooa  shortening 
can  be  substituted  for  the  sake  of  economy — lard,  chicken  fat, 
or  drippings,  but  none  of  strong  flavor,  such  as  goose  or  mut- 
ton, or  any  fat  in  which  onions  have  been  cooked.  When  try- 
ing a  new  recipe  it  is  a  good  plan  to  measure  the  shortening 
and  the  sugar  and  molasses  scant,  until  the  individual  family 
taste  has  been  ascertained. 


THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK         99 


When  cakes  "fall"  in  the  center  while  baking,  or  immedi- 
ately after  removing  from  the  oven,  it  is  generally  because  the 
batter  was  too  thin,  or  too  rich  with  butter  or  molasses,  or  the 
baking  was  too  rapid,  so  that  a  hard  outer  crust  had  formed 
before  the  center  had  solidified.  It  is  for  this  same  reason  that 
the  crusts  will  break,  and  the  batter  come  up  between,  thus 
forming  unsightly  broken  tops  to  the  cakes. 

When  the  cake  is  thought  to  be  about  done,  test  it  by 
inserting  a  broom  straw  with  thick  end  cut  to  a  fine  point.  If 
no  moisture,  or  half  baked  batter  adheres  to  the  straw,  the 
cake  is  done.  Also,  when  the  cake  is  done  it  usually  recedes 
a  little  from  the  sides  of  the  tin.  After  removing  the  cake 
from  the  oven  never  place  in  a  draft  or  on  a  cold  surface,  but 
place  the  pan  on  a  cloth  or  towel  wrung  out  of  water,  and 
allow  it  to  remain  there  a  few  minutes,  after  which  the  cake 
can  be  easily  removed  from  the  tin.  The  more  delicate  the 
cake,  the  more  careful  the  handling  should  be. 

Cake  pans  are  best  greased  with  baking  oil,  or  lard,  never 
with  salted  butter,  as  the  latter  burns  easily,  and  sometimes 
also  causes  the  cake  to  stick  to  the  tins.  Some  cooks  like  to 
sprinkle  flour  in  the  greased  tins  to  prevent  cakes  from  stick- 
ing. Sprinkle  liberally  and  shake  out  superfluous  flour  by 
inverting  the  tin  and  tapping  lightly  on  the  outside.  Another 
good  plan  is  to  place  a  fitted  piece  of  well  greased  paper  (white 
or  light  brown)  in  the  bottom  of  cake  pan,  and  sometimes  also 
along  the  sides,  especially  for  rich  cakes  that  require  long 
baking. 

Most  cakes  require  medium  heat  in  the  baking,  except  when 
the  recipe  states  otherwise.  If  the  oven  is  too  hot,  a  pan  of 
cold  water  placed  in  it  will  help  to  reduce  the  temperature.  As 
a  rule,  layer  cakes  and  small  cakes  require  a  hotter  oven  than 
loaf  cakes.  Cakes  made  with  baking  powder  call  for  a  higher 
temperature  than  those  in  which  cream  of  tartar  and  soda,  or 
lemon  juice  and  soda,  or  molasses  and  soda  are  used.  Cakes 
made  rich  with  the  yolks  of  eggs  require  less  heat  than  cakes 
made  with  the  whites  of  eggs — that  is,  an  oven  should  be  hot- 
ter for  an  angel  cake  than  for  a  yellow  or  rich  and  heavy  cake. 
Cake  containing  fruit  should  always  be  baked  in  a  slow  oven. 

The  regulation  of  the  oven  temperature  spells  success  or 
failure  in  cake  baking.  As  a  general  rule,  the  oven  should  be 
slow  at  first,  and  the  heat  gradually  increased.  Never  attempt 
to  bake  a  delicate  cake  mixture  with  a  freshly  built  coal  fire, 
which,  as  everyone  knows,  always  gives  out  a  more  intense 
heat,  or  with  a  fire  from  which  the  life  has  largely  died  out. 
When  the  same  recipe  is  used  with  success  at  one  time  and 
results  in  failure  at  another  time  the  fault  can  generally  be 
attributed  to  an  oven  of  improper  temperature. 

In  mixing  cakes  lightened  with  yeast,  observe  the  same 
points  considered  essential  to  success  in  bread  making.  On 
account  of  the  tendency  of  sugar,  butter  and  eggs  to  retard 


100        THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK 


fermentation  it  is  advisable  to  add  these  only  to  a  light  sponges 
or  to  a  light  bread  dough.  When  filling  cake  tins  the  batter 
should  never  fill  more  than  two-thirds  of  the  space.  Draw 
the  mixture  away  from  the  center  toward  the  corners  or  edges. 
If  this  is  done,  the  cakes  when  baked  will  have  level  tops,  pro- 
viding the  oven  was  properly  heated. 

It  is  a  saving  of  time,  and  results  will  generally  be  more  sat- 
isfactory, if,  before  beginning  to  mix  a  cake,  the  cook  will  see 
to  it  that  she  has  everything  needed  ready  at  hand  and  in  such 
condition  that  the  ingredients  can  be  put  together  quickly. 

Farmer's  Cake 

When  putting  raised  bread  in  pans  to  bake,  leave  out  a 
piece  about  half  the  size  of  a  loaf.  Keep  it  in  raiser  and  cover 
warm,  while  you  get  the  following  ready:  1  cup  lard  (melted, 
warm,  not  hot),  1  lb  currants,  i/^  lb  raisins,  1^^  cups  sugar,  1 
small  cup  molasses,  2  eggs,  1  teasp  each  ground  cloves,  ginger, 
allspice,  cinnamon  and  soda.  Mix  the  warm  lard,  beaten  eggs 
and  molasses  and  put  in  with  dough.  Then  beat,  and  beat  until 
it  is  light  and  like  batter,  after  which  add  sugar  and  beat  all 
again  well.  Lastly  put  in  the  floured  fruit,  but  don't  beat — 
just  fold  over  and  over  until  well  mixed,  and  put  in  a  roaster 
in  a  hot  oven,  and  cover  and  bake  for  l^^  hours.  Do  not 
open  oven  door  until  cake  is  cooked.  If  your  bread  is  ready 
to  bake  first,  it  does  not  hurt  cake  to  leave  it  standing  in  warm 
place  until  oven  is  ready.  This  cake  is  very  good  and  sub- 
stantial.—  [Mrs.  E.  W.,  O. 

Wedding  Cake 

I  have  prepared  this  for  all  my  children  when  they  were 
married,  and  everybody  who  has  tasted  this  cake  declares  that 
it  is  unsurpassed.  Cream  1  lb  sugar  and  1  lb  butter  (or  use 
half  butter  and  half  shortening),  add  12  eggs,  one  at  a  time, 
I  lb  sifted  flour,  4  lbs  raisins,  seeded,  3  lbs  currants,  2  lbs  al- 
monds, blanched  and  chopped  fine,  and  1  cup  raspberry  jam. 
Put  in  a  separate  small  bowl  1  or  2  nutmegs  grated,  1  tablesp 
cinnamon,  1  teasp  cloves,  and  pour  over  it  3  wine  glasses 
good  brandy  and  2  wine  glasses  white  wine.  Cover  the  bowl 
and  let  this  stand  while  you  are  mixing  the  cake,  then  stir  it 
up,  and  pour  it  in  the  cake  batter  the  very  last  thing.  Mix 
well,  and  bake  at  once  in  a  moderate  oven.  It  is  best  to  line 
the  tin  with  well  greased  paper,  and  care  must  be  used  that  the 
cake  will  not  burn  at  the  bottom.  These  cakes  will  keep  a  year 
or  more.  Do  not  bake  :  i  too  large  tins.  Use  half  the  quanti- 
ties if  less  cake  is  wanted. — [Anon.,  N.  Y. 

Angel  Food  Cake 

A  moist  and  tender  angel  cake  is  one  of  the  best  things  in 
the  art  of  cookery.    Remember  that  angel  food  should  never  be 


THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK        101 

eaten  the  same  day  it  is  baked.  It  is  better  when  a  week  old. 
The  best  that  was  ever  baked  will  be  tough  when  it  is  fresh. 
Keep  in  tightly  closed  tin  box.  The  recipe  which  I  have  used 
with  success  is  as  follows:  Add  a  pinch  salt  to  the  whites  of 
9  eggs  and  beat  till  partly  stiff,  then  add  %  teasp  cream  tartar 
and  beat  till  very  stiff.  Fold  in  gradually  and  very  carefully 
1%  cups  granulated  sugar  that  has  been  sifted  several  times. 
Sift  1  cup  best  pastry  flour  half  doz  times,  and  fold  lightly  into 
the  sugar  and  eggs.  Lastly  add  1  teasp  vanilla  extract,  and 
pour  the  batter  into  an  unbuttered  pan  which  has  been  lightly 
dredged  with  flour.  Bake  for  35  to  50  minutes,  and  when  done 
do  not  remove  from  pan  until  the  cake  is  almost  cold,  after 
which  it  can  be  easily  loosened  and  lifted  out. —  [H.  E.  S.,  Ind. 

Three  In  One  Cake 

This  recipe  will  answer  for  a  French  cream  cake,  a  whipped 
cream  cake,  or  a  roll  jelly  cake.  Beat  3  eggs  and  1  cup  sugar 
thoroughly,  then  add  2  tablesp  cold  water  and  li/4  cups  flour 
sifted  with  2  teasp  baking  powder.  Always  stir  this  batter 
in  one  direction.  For  a  French  cream  cake  bake  in  two  round 
layers.  Split  the  cakes,  while  warm,  and  put  together  with 
the  following  cream  filling:  Put  1  scant  pt  milk  in  a  double 
boiler  to  heat.  Dissolve  2  tablesp  cornstarch  in  a  little  cold 
milk,  add  1  beaten  egg,  and  ^  cup  sugar.  Then  pour  this 
mixture  into  the  hot  milk  and  stir  constantly  until  thick.  Add 
piece  of  butter  size  of  an  egg,  remove  from  the  fire  and  flavor 
to  taste,  and  spread  between  the  layers.  For  the  roll  jelly  cake 
bake  in  a  long  bread  pan  in  a  not  too  hot  oven,  or  the  edges 
will  be  hard  and  the  cake  will  break  when  you  try  to  roll  it  up. 
When  done  turn  out  on  a  clean  towel,  spread  with  jelly  or 
jam,  and  roll  up,  leaving  the  cloth  around  the  cake  until  it  is 
cool.  For  whipped  cream  cake,  bake  in  two  round  layers,  split 
them  while  warm  and  put  them  together  with  sweetened 
whipped  cream  flavored  to  taste.  This  is  best  eaten  fresh. — 
[Mrs.  A.  I.,  la. 

Fig  Pound  Cake 

Cream  %  lb  butter  (or  half  butter  and  half  shortening) 
with  1  lb  brown  sugar,  add  yolks  of  6  eggs,  one  at  a  time,  beat- 
ing thoroughly,  %  pt  sour  milk,  in  which  dissolve  1  scant  teasp 
soda,  1  lb  flour  sifted  with  i/^  teasp  nutmeg,  and  1  lb  each 
chopped  figs  and  raisins,  dredged  with  flour.  Lastly  fold  in 
the  beaten  whites  of  6  eggs.    Bake  slowly. —  [Mrs.  A.  C,  W.  Va. 

Dried  Apple  Cake 

Soak  2  cups  dried  apples  over  night.  Drain  off  water,  chop 
fine,  and  cook  in  2  cups  molasses  until  thick.  When  cool  add  2 
cups  sugar,  2  teasp  each  nutmeg,  cinnamon,  and  allspice,  1  cup 


102  THE   ORANGE  JUDD   COOK  BOOK 


shortening,  2  cups  sour  milk  with  2  teasp  soda  dissolved  in  it 
and  flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter.  This  is  an  excellent  recipe, 
and  makes  four  large  loaves. —  [I.  A.  S.,  Me. 

Prune  Cake 

To  1  cup  sugar  add  1  egg  and  1  yolk,  4  tablesp  sour  cream, 
and  flour  enough  to  make  a  thick  batter,  sifted  with  1  teasp 
each  of  soda  and  cinnamon,  l^  teasp  cloves  and  %  teasp  nut- 
meg. Lastly  mix  in  1  cup  stewed  prunes  pitted  and  chopped. 
Bake  in  layers  and  put  together  with  frosting  made  with  the 
white  of  the  egg  and  sugar,  or  use  whipped  cream.  This  is  ex- 
cellent.—  [L.  A.  B. 

Blackberry  Jam  Cake 

Cream  l^^  cups  sugar  with  y2  cup  shortening,  add  3  eggs, 
leaving  out  the  white  of  one  for  the  frosting,  14  cup  sour  milk, 
in  which  dissolve  1  scant  teasp  soda,  2^  cups  flour  sifted  with 
1  teasp  cinnamon,  and  last  of  all  1  cup  of  blackberry  jam,  mix- 
ing it  no  more  than  necessary  after  adding  jam.  Sweet  milk 
may  be  used  instead  of  sour  milk  by  leaving  out  the  soda  and 
adding  I  teasp  baking  powder  instead.  This  is  a  delicious 
cake. —  [Miss  E.  C,  Ore. 

Strawberry  Jam  Cake 

Cream  V2  cup  butter  with  1  cup  brown  sugar,  add  yolks 
3  eggs,  5  tablesp  sour  milk  or  cream,  in  which  dissolve  1  teasp 
soda,  2  cups  flour  sifted  with  1  teasp  cinnamon,  and  %  teasp 
each  cloves  and  nutmeg,  1  cup  strawberry  jam,  and  lastly  the 
beaten  whites  of  3  eggs.  Bake  in  layers,  and  put  together  with 
boiled  icing. —  [E.  B.  U.,  Mo. 

Roll  Cake  With  Buttermilk. 

Mix  1  egg  with  %  cup  sugar  and  add  i/^  teasp  soda  dis- 
solved in  6  tablesp  buttermilk;  then  mix  in  6  tablesp  flour  and 
bake  in  a  narrow,  shallow  tin.  When  done  turn  out  on  a 
towel,  spread  with  jelly,  or  any  preferred  filling,  while  the 
cake  is  still  warm,  and  roll  it  up,  leaving  the  towel  around  it 
until  the  cake  is  cold.  This  makes  a  small  roll  and  is  very 
nice. — [Mrs.  C.  E.  P.,  N.  Y. 

Brown  Loaf  Cake 

Cream  2  cups  brown  sugar  with  %  cup  butter,  (or  butter 
and  lard  mixed ) ,  add  2  eggs,  Vz  cup  sour  cream  in  which 
has  been  dissolved  1  teasp  soda,  Vz  cup  water,  14  cake  choco- 
late dissolved  in  a  little  hot  water,  1  teasp  vanilla,  and  2  cups 
flour.     This  is  my  favorite  recipe. —  [Mrs.  L.  L.  D.,  Va. 


THE   ORANGE  JUDD   COOK  BOOK  103 


Graham  Cake 

Beat  1  egg  with  2  tablesp  sugar,  add  1  teasp  salt,  1  pt  butter- 
milk, in  which  dissolve  1  teasp  soda,  and  then  stir  in  about  2 
pts  graham  flour  to  make  a  moderately  stiff  batter  (flours  vary 
so  that  it  is  hard  to  name  the  exact  amount).  Lastly  mix  in  3 
tablesp  melted  butter  and  bake  in  a  dripping  pan  about  30  min- 
utes in  a  moderate  oven. —  [Mrs.  B.  B.  M.,  Kan. 

Nut  Layer  Cake 

To  y2  cup  sugar  add  1  egg  well  beaten,  i/^  cup  sour  cream 
in  which  dissolve  1  level  teasp  soda,  V2  cup  molasses,  and  2 
cups  flour.  Bake  in  three  layers.  For  filling  use  1  cup  thick 
sweet  cream  whipped  until  stiff,  sweeten  with  powdered  sugar, 
flavor  to  taste,  and  add  1  cup  nut  meats. —  [Mrs.  W.  C.  T.,  N.  Y. 

Chocolate  Cake 

Cream  %  cup  butter  with  1  cup  sugar,  add  beaten  yolks  2 
eggs,  y4,  cup  grated  chocolate  dissolved  in  a  very  little  hot 
water,  ^^  cup  buttermilk,  in  which  dissolve  1  teasp  soda,  2  cups 
flour,  and  lastly  the  beaten  whites  of  2  eggs.  Flavor  with 
vanilla  and  frost  with  white  frosting. —  [Mrs.  W.  C.  T.,  N.  Y. 

Steamed  Fruit   Cake 

Cream  ^^  cup  butter  with  IVz  cups  sugar,  add  2  eggs,  1  cup 
sour  milk,  in  which  dissolve  1  teasp  soda,  and  3  cups  flour 
sifted  with  1  teasp  cinnamon  and  V2  teasp  each  cloves  and 
nutmeg.  Lastly  add  1  cup  each  raisins  and  currants  and  steam 
the  cake  IVq  hours,  after  which  place  in  moderate  oven  for 
15  minutes. — [L.  P.,  111. 

Layer  Fruit  and  Nut  Cake 

Cream  %  cup  butter  with  1  cup  sugar,  add  1  egg,  1  cup 
sour  milk,  in  which  dissolve  1  teasp  soda,  scant  2^/^  cups  flour 
sifted  with  1  teasp  cinnamon,  and  ^^  teasp  each  cloves  and 
nutmeg.  Next  add  1  cup  chopped  raisins,  %  cup  candied  lemon 
or  orange  peel,  cut  fine,  and  lastly  V2  cup  nut  meats  and  1 
teasp  vanilla  extract.  Bake  in  layers  and  put  together  with 
caramel  filling. —  [L.  P.,  111. 

White  Fruit  Cake 

Cream  1  cup  sugar  and  i/^  cup  butter,  add  2  eggs,  1  cup  but- 
termilk, and  flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff  batter,  sifted  with 
1  teasp  each  soda  and  baking  powder.  Flavor  with  lemon 
extract,  and  lastly  mix  in  lightly  1  cup  chopped  and  seeded 
raisins,  dredged  with  flour. —  [L.  H.,  Minn. 


104  THE   ORANGE   JUDD   COOK   BOOK 


Indian  Cake 

Mix  2  cups  corn  meal,  1  cup  flour,  %^  cup  sugar,  1  teasp  soda 
and  1  teasp  salt.  In  another  bowl  break  3  eggs,  beat  them 
up,  and  add  %  cup  melted  butter  which  has  been  allowed  to 
cool.  Then  mix  in  2  cups  rich  sour  milk  and  pour  this  liquid 
mixture  into  the  flour  and  thoroughly  mix  the  whole.  Bake  at 
once  in  flat  tin  pans,  or  as  a  loaf  cake. —  [Mrs.  E.  E.  S.,  Pa. 

Buttermilk  Fruit  Cake 

To  1  cup  sugar  add  6  tablesp  melted  butter,  1  tablesp 
molasses,  1  egg,  well  beaten,  1  teasp  soda  dissolved  in  1  cup 
buttermilk,  and  2  cups  flour  sifted  with  1  teasp  cinnamon  and 
%  teasp  each  cloves  and  nutmeg.  Lastly  add  1  cup  seeded 
raisins,  chopped  fine  and  dredged  with  flour.  Bake  in  a  mod- 
erate oven. — [Mrs.  W.  H.  E.,  Vt. 

Apple  Pound  Cake 

Boil  together  2  cups  chopped  fresh  apples,  scant  1  cup  but- 
ter, 1  cup  molasses,  and  1  cup  raisins,  until  the  fruit  is  well 
cooked.  When  this  has  cooled  add  1  cup  sugar,  1  cup  butter- 
milk, 3%  cups  flour  sifted  with  2  teasp  cinnamon  and  1  teasp 
each  cloves  and  soda.    Lastly  mix  in  1  well-beaten  egg. — [Mrs. 

c.  c,  N.  y. 

Raspberry  Jam  Cake 

Cream  %  cup  butter  with  1  cup  sugar,  add  3  eggs,  3  tablesp 
sour  milk,  1  teasp  each  soda  and  cinnamon,  and  %  teasp  nut- 
meg sifted  with  1^^  cups  flour.  Lastly  add  1  cup  raspberry 
jam.    Bake  in  a  square  cake  tin. — [Mrs.  E.  P.  C.,  Me. 

Poor  Man's  Fruit  Cake 

To  1  cup  brown  sugar  add  ^  pt  thick  sour  cream,  %  teasp 
soda  dissolved  in  2  tablesp  warm  water  and  then  stirred  into 
%  cup  N  O  molasses,  %  cup  flour  (measured  after  sifting), 
and  1  tablesp  each  cinnamon  and  allspice  mixed  with  the 
flour.  Beat  all  these  ingredients  together  thoroughly  and  add 
at  the  last  1  lb  raisins,  seeded,  chopped  and  rolled  in  flour. 
Bake  about  1%  hours  in  moderate  oven. — [Mrs.  D.  H.  F.,  Col, 

Eggless   Cake 

Cream  1  cup  sugar  with  %  cup  butter,  add  1  cup  sour  milk, 
in  which  dissolve  1  teasp  soda;  2  cups  flour  sifted  with 
%  teasp  each  nutmeg  and  cinnamon,  and  1  cup  currants.—* 
[Mrs.  J.  P.,  Me. 


THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK        105 


Hot  Water  Cake   (No  eggs) 

Cream  ^  cup  sugar  with  Vz  cup  lard,  add  1  cup  molasses 
and  2%  cups  flour  sifted  with  2  scant  teasp  soda  and  V2  teasp 
each  of  nutmeg,  cinnamon,  allspice  and  cloves.  Last  of  all 
add  1  cup  boiling  water.  When  properly  made  this  cake  is  as 
light  as  a  feather. —  [I.  A.  S.,  Me. 

Dark  Cake   (No  eggs) 

Cream  %  cup  butter  and  lard  mixed,  with  1  cup  brown 
sugar,  add  1  cup  sour  milk,  in  which  dissolve  1  teasp  soda, 
and  2  cups  flour  sifted  with  1  teasp  cinnamon  and  V2  teasp  each 
cloves  and  nutmeg.  Lastly  add  1  cup  chopped  raisins  dredged 
with  flour. —  [Mrs.  L.  E.  G.,  N.  Y. 

Buttermilk  Cake    (No  eggs) 

To  1  cup  sugar  add  4  tablesp  melted  butter,  1  cup  buttermilk,. 
In  which  dissolve  1  teasp  soda,  2  cups  flour  sifted  with  spices  to 
suit  taste.  Lastly  stir  in  1  cup  raisins,  stoned  and  cut  fine  and 
thoroughly  dredged  with  flour.  This  cake  is  also  good  with 
the  spices  omitted. — [Mrs.  J.  K.,  N.  Y. 

Chocolate  Loaf  Cake    (No  eggs) 

Boil  until  it  thickens  y2  cup  milk  with  1  tablesp  butter,  and 
%  cup  chocolate.  Remove  from  fire  and  when  cool  add  1 
cup  sugar,  1  teasp  soda  dissolved  in  i/4  cup  milk,  and  flour  to 
thicken  to  the  proper  consistency.  Use  vanilla  as  flavor.— 
[Mrs.  E.  R.  S.,  N.  Y. 

New  England  Cake  (No  eggs) 

Cream  %  cup  butter  or  scant  %  cup  lard,  or  any  other 
good  shortening,  with  1  cup  light  brown  sugar,  add  Vz  cup 
molasses,  1  cup  sour  milk,  in  which  dissolve  1  teasp  soda,  3 
cups  flour  sifted  with  %  teasp  each  spices  to  suit  taste,  Vz  cup 
cleaned  currants,  and  Vz  cup  raisins,  seeded,  cut  in  half,  and 
dredged  with  flour.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  This  will  make 
one  large  cake,  or  two  small  ones. —  [Mrs.  R.  W.,  Me. 

Graham  Cake  (No  eggs) 

Cream  1%  cups  brown  sugar  with  2  tablesp  butter  or 
shortening,  add  IV2  cups  sour  milk,  in  which  has  been  dis- 
solved 1  teasp  soda.  Mix  together  2%  cups  graham  flour,  % 
cup  white  flour,  1  teasp  cinnamon,  %  teasp  cloves,  and  sift 
this  into  the  first  named  ingredients.  Lastly  add  1  cup 
raisins,  seeded,  cut  fine,  and  well  dredged  with  flour. — [Mrs. 
H.  I.  S.,  Ga. 


106        THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK 


Sour  Milk  Cake  (No  eggs) 

To  1  cup  sugar  add  i/^  cup  melted  butter,  or  butter  and  lard 
mixed,  i/^  teasp  soda  dissolved  in  1  cup  sour  milk,  and  2  cups 
flour  with  spices  to  suit.  Lastly  stir  in  1  cup  or  less  seeded 
and  chopped  raisins,  dredged  with  flour.  The  spices  may  be 
omitted. —  [Mrs.  E.  B.  L.,  Me. 

Pork  Cake  (No  eggs) 

Chop  1  lb  salt  fat  pork  (no  lean)  very  fine,  and  pour  over 
it  V2  pt  strong,  boiling  hot  coffee,  add  2  cups  brown  sugar, 
1  cup  molasses,  and  1  teasp  soda,  then  sift  in  about  6  cups  flour 
mixed  with  2  teasp  cinnamon,  and  1  teasp  each  cloves  and  nut- 
meg. Last  of  all  add  1  lb  seeded  raisins,  and  %  lb  citron  or 
candied  orange  peel  cut  fine.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  This 
makes  two  good  sized  loaves.  An  excellent  cake,  and  will  keep 
for  six  months,  or  more.  It  is  well  to  line  the  tin  with  greased 
paper  or  to  put  an  asbestos  mat  under  the  pan  to  prevent 
burning.  For  the  hot  coffee  boiling  water  can  be  substituted. 
Some  cooks  add  Vz  cup  sour  milk. —  [Mrs.  R.  L.  W.,  Mass. 

Chocolate  Gingerbread    (No  eggs) 

Mix  1  cup  molasses  with  i/^  cup  sour  milk,  add  1  teasp  soda 
dissolved  in  a  little  warm  water,  3  tablesp  melted  butter,  2  oz 
melted  chocolate,  and  2  cups  flour  sifted  with  1  teasp  each 
ginger  and  cinnamon.  Bake  as  a  loaf  cake  or  in  layers.  This 
recipe  may  also  be  used  for  cookies  by  adding  more  flour. — ' 
[Mrs.  P.  O.  B.,  Mont. 

Plain  or  Nut  Cake   (No  eggs) 

Cream  %  cup  butter  and  %  cup  sugar,  add  %  cup  sour 
milk  with  scant  i/^  teasp  soda,  and  1^^  cups  flour  sifted  with 
%  teasp  cinnamon  and  i/4  teasp  each  nutmeg  and  cloves. 
By  way  of  variation  add  either  1  cup  seeded  and  chopped 
raisins,  or  1  cup  nut  meats  cut  fine,  or  both.  Even  when  we 
have  plenty  eggs,  we  always  make  nut  cake  this  way. — [J.  R., 
Mich. 

Fruit  Cake  (No  eggs) 

Cream  1  cup  brown  sugar  with  scant  %  cup  butter,  add  %^ 
cup  buttermilk  in  which  1  scant  teasp  soda  has  been  dis- 
solved, 2  cups  flour  sifted  with  1  teasp  cinnamon,  and  ^  teasp 
each  of  cloves  and  nutmeg.  Lastly  add  1  cup  chopped  raisins. 
[Mrs.  S.  D.  B.,  Mich. 


THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK        107 


English  Walnut  Cake    (No  butter,   no  eggs) 

Dissolve  Vz  teasp  soda  in  1  cup  buttermilk,  add  1  cup  sugar, 
3  tablesp  molasses  and  flour  enough  to  make  a  medium  stiff 
batter,  sifted  with  1 1/4  teasp  cream  tartar.  Lastly  add  1  cup 
walnut  meats  cut  very  fine. — [Mrs.  A.  B.  H.,  Va. 

Apple  Sauce  Cake  (No  eggs,  no  milk) 

Cream  1  cup  sugar  and  V2  cup  shortening,  dissolve  1  teasp 
soda  in  a  little  hot  water  and  stir  this  in  1  cup  sour  apple 
sauce,  letting  it  foam  over  into  the  mixing  bowl,  then  add  1%! 
cups  flour  sifted  with  1  teasp  cinnamon  and  y2  teasp  each 
cloves  and  nutmeg.  Mix  thoroughly  and  then  put  in  1  cup 
raisins.  Bake  in  a  loaf  tin  about  45  minutes.  This  cake  is 
rich,  moist,  and  most  delicious,  and  best  of  all,  cheap. — [Mrs. 
N.  A.  D.,  Mass. 

Cheap  Cake   (No  eggs,  no  butter) 

Here  is  a  good  cheap  cake  or  pudding  which  requires  no 
eggs,  nor  butter  nor  milk  in  the  making.  Put  in  the  mixing 
bowl  1  heaping  tablesp  lard,  and  pour  over  this  1  cup  strong 
coffee,  then  add  2  cups  brown  sugar,  1  teasp  soda  dissolved 
in  a  little  hot  water,  3  cups  flour  sifted  with  i/^  teasp  each 
cloves  and  nutmeg,  and  1  teasp  cinnamon — 1  cup  raisins  is  an 
improvment,  but  can  be  omitted.  Served  warm  with  a  good 
pudding  sauce  or  just  plain  milk,  this  cake  is  excellent  and 
never  fails. —  [Mrs.  C.  V.  H.,  O. 

Emergency  Cake  (No  butter) 

Break  2  eggs  in  a  cup  (do  not  beat),  then  fill  the  cup  up 
with  rich  sour  cream,  empty  into  a  mixing  bowl  and  beat  vig- 
orously, then  add  1  level  teasp  soda,  1  cup  sugar,  1  teasp  any 
preferred  flavoring,  and  1  cup  flour.  Bake  in  two  layers.  This 
is  a  very  tender  and  delicate  cake.  For  a  filling  use  scant 
%  cup  sugar,  i^  cup  milk  and  1  tablesp  butter  boiled  together 
until  it  bubbles  and  begins  to  look  waxy.  Then  remove  from 
the  fire,  flavor  and  stir  until  it  begins  to  thicken,  and  sprgad 
between  layers  and  on  top. —  [Mrs.  M.  S.,  la. 

Molasses  Gingerbread      (No  butter) 

To  1  cup  sugar  add  1  egg,  1  cup  molasses,  1  cup  sour  cream, 
%  cup  sour  milk,  2  teasp  soda,  %  teasp  each  of  cinnamon,  all- 
spice and  cloves  and  3  cups  flour.  Bake  in  a  biscuit  pan,  or 
in  two  small  pans.     Fine. — [Mrs.  W.  J.  B.,  Me. 

Cream  Caramel  Cake.      (No  butter.) 

To  2  well  beaten  eggs  add  1  cup  sugar  and  V2  teasp  soda  dis- 
solved in  1  cup  rich  sour  cream.     Then  mix  in  2  cups  flour,  to 


108        THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK 

which  has  been  added  1  teasp  baking  powder.  Bake  in  layers 
and  put  together  with  a  filling  made  of  l^^  cups  brown  sugar, 
%  cup  sweet  cream  or  milk,  and  1  tablesp  butter,  boiled  till  a 
small  amount  dropped  in  cold  water  will  form  a  soft  ball. 
Then  remove  from  fire  and  stir  it  until  it  begins  to  thicken,  and 
spread  over  the  baked  layers. — [Mrs.  D.  L.  T.,  S.  D. 

French  Date  Cake  (No  butter) 

Cream  1  cup  sugar  with  yolks  of  3  eggs,  add  1  scant  cup 
flour  sifted  with  1  scant  teasp  baking  powder,  then  add  1  cup 
chopped  dates,  1  cup  chopped  walnuts,  and  lastly  the  whites 
of  the  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Bake  in  a  loaf  tin.  Serve 
with  whipped,  sweetened  cream  flavored  with  vanilla. — [A.  H., 
IWis. 

Cream   Cake    (No   butter) 

To  1  cup  thick  sweet  cream  add  1  cup  sugar,  2  eggs,  and 
2%  cups  flour  sifted  with  li/^  teasp  baking  powder.  Bake  in 
layers  and  as  a  filling  use  1  cup  cream  whipped  stiff  with  1 
cup  sugar  added  and  a  few  drops  of  vanilla  to  flavor.  It  is 
best  not  to  prepare  the  cream  filling  until  shortly  before 
serving. —  [Mrs.  G.  M.,  Ore. 

Sunshine  Cake    (No  butter) 

Beat  yolks  of  4  eggs  until  stiff  and  add  gradually  1  cup 
sugar,  beating  well,  then  3  tablesp  cold  water  and  1  teasp 
lemon  extract  or  lemon  juice.  Next  mix  1  y^  tablesp  cornstarch 
with  1  teasp  baking  powder  and  1  scant  cup  sifted  flour.  Add 
these  ingredients  slowly  to  the  above  mixture  and  lastly  fold 
In  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  4  eggs.  My  friends  pronounce 
this  the  best  sponge  cake  they  have  ever  tasted. — [Mrs.  M. 
H.,  N.  J. 

Sour  Cream  Spice  Cake    (No  butter) 

Mix  thoroughly  V2.  cup  each  sugar,  molasses,  thick  sour 
cream  and  buttermilk,  add  1  teasp  soda  dissolved  in  a  little 
warm  water,  then  sift  in  2  cups  flour,  mixed  with  1  teasp  each 
salt  and  cinnamon,  and  %  teasp  allspice  and  cloves.  Flavor 
with  1  teasp  lemon  extract.  Bake  as  loaf  cake  or  in  three 
layers  and  put  together  with  icing. — [Mrs.  B.  B.  M.,  Kan. 

Rolled  Sponge  Cake      (No  butter) 

To  4  well-beaten  eggs  add  1  cup  sugar,  4  tablesp  water,  and 
1  cup  flour  sifted  with  1  teasp  baking  powder.  Bake  in  a 
long,  narrow,  shallow  pan.  When  done  turn  out  on  a  clean 
towel,  and  spread  with  any  preferred  jelly,  or  cake  filling. 
Roll  up,  and  then  roll  in  a  towel  to  keep  it  in  shape  until  it  is 
cold. —  [Mrs.   B.   P.   B.,  Pa. 


THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK        109 

RoU  Jelly  Cake   (No  butter) 

To  3  well-beaten  eggs  add  1  scant  cup  sugar,  4  tablesp  cold 
water,  and  l^^  cups  flour  sifted  with  2  teasp  baking  powder. 
Bake  in  a  long,  narrow,  shallow  tin,  in  a  rather  quick  oven. 
When  done  remove  from  tin,  place  on  a  clean  white  towel, 
spread  with  jelly,  and  roll  it  up.  Leave  the  towel  rolled  around 
it  until  the  cake  is  cold.  Dust  with  powdered  sugar  before 
serving. —  [Mrs.   C.   G.   S. 

Inexpensive  Fruit  Cake 

Cream  2  cups  brown  sugar  and  1  cup  white  sugar  with  scant 
%  cup  shortening,  add  2  eggs,  (one  will  do),  IVz  cups  butter- 
milk, in  which  dissolve  1  teasp  soda  (or  li/^  cups  black  coffee 
and  3  teasp  baking  powder),  add  flour  to  make  the  dough  stiff 
enough  so  it  will  hardly  drop  from  spoon.  Sift  with  the  flour 
1  teasp  each  cinnamon  and  ginger  and  a  little  less  of  cloves. 
Lastly  add  1  cup  each  raisins  and  currants  well  dredged  with 
flour.  Bake  two  hours  in  moderate  oven.  I  use  milk  pans. 
When  the  cake  is  cool  cover  with  the  following  icing:  Boil  scant 
%  cup  white  sugar  and  scant  %  cup  sweet  milk  until  it  hard- 
ens when  dropped  from  end  of  spoon.  Then  remove  from  fire 
and  add  1  teasp  vanilla  and  %  cup  each  chopped  seeded  raisins 
and  walnuts,  or  any  other  nut  meat.  Beat  until  it  begins  to 
harden  and  then  spread  quickly  over  the  cake.  This  cake  will 
keep  for  months  and  is  better  when  two  or  three  weeks  old, 
than  when  fresh. — [L.  J.  P.,  Ore. 

Soft  Gingerbread 

Cream  %  cup  shortening  with  %  cup  sugar,  add  2  eggs, 
yolks  and  whites  beaten  separately,  1  cup  molasses,  1  cup  sour 
milk,  in  which  dissolve  2  scant  teasp  soda,  and  3  cups  flour 
sifted  with  1  tablesp  cinnamon  and  I  teasp  each  clove  and 
nutmeg. —  [Mrs.  L.  E.  G.,  N.  Y. 

Hard   Gingerbread 

To  1  cup  brown  sugar,  add  1  cup  butter  and  lard  mixed,  1  pt 
molasses,  2  teasp  baking  soda  dissolved  in  1  cup  hot  water, 
and  1  tablesp  each  of  ginger  and  cinnamon,  and  1  teasp  cloves, 
sifted  with  flour  enough  to  roll  out  nicely.  Cut  in  small 
pieces  about  Vo   inch  thick. — [Mrs.  B.  P.  B.,  Pa. 

Gingerbread  or  Loaf  Cake 

To  1  cup  molasses  add  1  teasp  soda  dissolved  in  1  cup  sour 
cream  and  1  tablesp  ginger  sifted  with  2  cups  flour.  This  recipe 
may  be  varied  by  using  sugar  instead  of  molasses.  It  also 
makes  a  good  dark  loaf  cake  by  omitting  the  ginger  and  add- 
ing other  spices  to  taste,  with  a  few  raisins. —  [Mrs.  G.  H.  W., 
N.  H. 


110  THE   ORANGE   JUDD   COOK  BOOK 


Cocoanut    Gingerbread 

To  1  cup  molasses  add  ^/^  cup  boiling  water  and  2^  cups 
flour  sifted  with  1  teasp  each  ginger  and  soda.  Beat  well, 
then  add  i/4  cup  melted  butter  and  beat  again  until  smooth. 
Bake  in  two  layers  in  a  moderate  oven.  Make  a  frosting  of 
1  cup  powdered  sugar  wet  with  cream  and  flavor  with  vanilla. 
Spread  over  the  cake  and  sprinkle  while  still  moist  with  grated 
or  shredded  cocoanut. —  [Mrs.  A.  S.,  N.  Y. 

Cocoanut  Loaf  Cake 

Cream  ^^  cup  butter  with  2  scant  cups  sugar,  add  4  or  5 
eggs,  i  cup  milk,  1  pt  flour  sifted  with  2  teasp  baking  powder, 
1  cup  grated  fresh  cocoanut,  and  flavor  with  i/^  teasp  almond 
extract.     Bake  in  a  loaf  tin. —  [A.  H.,  Wis. 

Potato  Spice  Cake 

Cream  ^2  cup  batter  with  2  cups  sugar,  add  3  eggs,  1^/^ 
cups  milk,  14  cup  grated  chocolate,  1  cup  mashed  potatoes, 
Vz  Ih  almonds,  chopped,  and  2  cups  f.our  sifted  with  1  teasp 
cinnamon,  Wz  teasp  each  cloves  and  nutmeg,  and  2  teasp 
baking  powder. —  [A.  H.,  Wis. 

Quick  Sponge  Cake 

Beat  3  eggs  separately  until  very  light,  add  1  cup  sugar 
and  beat  again,  1  tablesp  milk  and  1  cup  flour  sifted  with 
1  teasp  baking  powder.  Bake  in  a  shallow  pan. —  [Mrs.  W. 
H.  B.,  Mass. 

Velvet  Sponge  Cake 

Boil  1  lb  sugar  with  6  tablesp  water  until  clear;  then  pour 
this  hot  syrup  into  the  well-beaten  whites  of  6  eggs,  beating 
vigorously  all  the  while,  and  after  the  mixture  has  cooled 
some,  add  the  beaten  yolks  of  the  eggs,  and  lastly  2  cups  flour, 
but  no  baking  powder. — [Mrs.  J.  S.  W.,  Pa. 

Lemon  Sponge  Cake 

Beat  to  a  cream  1  scant  cup  sugar  and  yolks  of  4  eggs,  add 
grated  rind  and  juice  of  1  lemon,  stir  until  creamy  and  then 
add  the  beaten  whites  of  4  eggs  and  mix  in  lightly  without 
beating  1  cup  flour  sifted  with  1  teasp  baking  powder.  It  is 
best  to  add  whites  of  the  eggs  and  the  flour  little  by  little, 
alternately.  The  mixing  must  be  done  very  lightly,  as  beat- 
ing the  batter  makes  this  cake  tough. —  [Anon.,  Col. 


THE   ORANGE  JUDD   COOK  BOOK  111 

Fairy  Sponge  Cake 

This  is  an  excellent  cake  to  eat  with  fruits,  ices,  creams, 
etc.  Beat  the  yolks  of  4  eggs  with  2  cups  sugar  until  very- 
light,  add  to  this  the  grated  rind  and  juice  of  1  lemon,  then 
scant  %  cup  boiling  water  in  which  1  tablesp  butter  has  been 
dissolved.  Then  add  gradually  2  cups  flour  sifted  with  2  teasp 
baking  powder,  and  lastly  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  eggs. 
It  is  best  to  sift  the  flour  several  times,  as  this  makes  a  finer 
grained  cake.  Bake  in  a  loaf  tin,  and  frost  with  a  boiled 
icing. —  [Mrs,  A.  S.,  Tenn. 

Gold  Cake—Silver  Cake 

This  recipe  will  use  up  in  the  two  cakes  the  yolks  and  the 
whites  of  the  eggs,  and  do  away  with  the  objection  of  having 
one  or  the  other  left  over.  For  the  silver  cake  cream  %  cup 
butter  with  1  cup  white  sugar,  add  %  cup  milk,  1 1^  cups  flour 
sifted  with  1  teasp  baking  powder,  and  flavor  with  lemon 
extract.  Lastly  add  the  beaten  whites  of  4  eggs.  For  the  gold 
cake  cream  i/^  cup  butter  or  any  good  shortening  with  1  cup 
brown  sugar,  add  the  yolks  of  4  eggs,  i^  cup  milk,  and  2  cups 
flour  sifted  with  1  '^^  teasp  baking  powder.  Flavor  with  vanilla. 
These  are  two  fine  cakes  and  the  recipes  have  never 
failed  me. —  [Mrs.  W.  C,  Mich. 

Huckleberry   Cake 

To  1  cup  sugar  add  .3  tablesp  butter,  1  egg,  %  cup  milk,  2 
cups  flour  sifted  with  2  teasp  baking  powder.  Lastly  stir  in 
1  pt  fresh  huckleberries.  Bake  in  a  square,  shallow  tin. 
This  is  nice  warm  or  cold,  and  may  be  eaten  with  or  without 
sauce,  as  preferred. —  [Mrs.  B.  E.  S.,  Pa. 

Blackberry  Cake 

Cream  y^  cup  butter  with  1  cup  sugar,  add  2  eggs,  (saving 
out  the  white  of  one  for  icing),  4  tablesp  cold  water,  1  cup 
cooked  blackberries,  juice  and  all,  and  2  cups  flour  sifted  with 
1  teasp  each  soda  and  cinnamon,  and  ^^  teasp  cloves.  Bake 
in  two  layers  and  put  together  with  any  preferred  icing.  This 
cake  may  also  be  baked  in  patty  pans,  the  tops  scooped  out 
when  cold,  and  the  cakes  filled  with  sweetened  whipped 
cream.  It  is  nice  to  serve  these  little  cakes  for  dessert  with 
a  generous  portion  of  whipped  cream  heaped  about 
them  on  the  plates.  Do  not  whip  the  cream  until  shortly  before 
serving. —  [Mrs.  E.  E.  S.,  Pa. 

Fresh   Fruit   Cake 

This  cake  can  be  made  with  fresh  berries  of  any  kind,  or 
with  pitted  cherries.  Cream  I  cup  butter  with  2  cups  sugar, 
add  3  beaten  eggs,  1  pt  milk  and  enough  flour  to  make  a  stiff 


112        THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK 


batter,  sifted  with  3  teasp  baking  powder.  Then  dredge  the 
fruit  with  flour  and  stir  in  batter  the  last  thing.  Bake  in 
dripping  pan.  This  is  nice  eaten  warm,  with  butter  or  cream. 
{Mrs.  O.  T.,  Mich. 

Cornstarch  Cake 

Cream  1  cup  sugar  with  V2  cup  butter,  add  V2  cup  sweet 
milk,  y2  cup  cornstarch  and  1  cup  flour  sifted  with  1  teasp 
cream  tartar  and  scant  i^  teasp  soda.  Flavor  to  taste  and 
lastly  add  beaten  whites  of  3  eggs.  May  be  used  for  layer  or 
loaf  cake. — [E.  T.,  Va. 

Ribbon   Cake 

Cream  li/^  cups  sugar  with  V2  cup  butter,  add  3  eggs,  %' 
cup  milk,  and  two  cups  flour  sifted  with  scant  2  teasp  baking 
powder.  Take  out  one-third  of  the  batter  and  add  to  it  spices 
to  taste  and  V2  cup  currants.  Bake  two  light  layers  and  one 
dark  layer  and  put  together  with  jelly  or  any  preferred  icing.-— 
[L.  W.  D.,  Mass. 

Children's  Cake 

Cream  V2  cup  sugar  and  3  tablesp  butter,  add  1  egg,  %  cup 
milk,  and  1  cup  flour  sifted  with  1  teasp  baking  powder.     Bake 
in  a  square  tin.     Sprinkle  sugar  and  cinnamon  on  top.     This  is 
a    plain,    wholesome    cake,    much    liked    by    children. — [F. 
I.  L.,  Wis 

Cheap  Walnut  Cake 

Cream  scant  %  cup  butter  or  any  other  good  shortening 
with  1  cup  sugar,  add  2  beaten  eggs,  i/^  cup  milk,  l^^  cups 
flour  sifted  with  2  scant  teasp  baking  powder.  Lastly  add  1 
cup  chopped  walnuts.  Bake  in  a  square  tin,  and  when  cold 
frost,  mark  off  in  small  squares  and  put  half  a  walnut  on  each 
square. —  [Mrs.  S.  E.  P.,  Wash. 

Mocha  Cake 

Beat  2  eggs  light,  add  1  cup  sugar  gradually,  and  1%  cups 
flour  sifted  with  1  teasp  cream  tartar  and  %  teasp  soda;  lastly 
add  y2  cup  boiling  milk,  in  which  dissolve  1  teasp  butter. 
Beat  until  light  and  bake  in  two  layers.  When  cool  put 
together  with  the  following  filling:  Cream  i^  cup  butter  with 
1  cup  powdered  sugar,  add  2  teasp  strong  black  coffee,  2  teasp 
powdered  cocoa  and  1  teasp  vanilla  extract.  Frost  top  of  cake 
with  any  preferred  icing. —  [P.  H.  K.,  Pa. 


THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK        US 

Tri-colored  Marble  Cake 

Cream  V2  cup  butter  and  1  cup  sugar,  add  yolks  3  eggs,  one 
at  a  time,  and  beat  to  a  cream,  then  add  1  cup  flour  sifted 
with  V2  teasp  baking  powder,  and  beat  well.  Next  add  i^ 
cup  milk  and  beat  the  mixture  to  a  creamy  consistency.  Then 
sift  in  another  cup  flour  with  i/4  teasp  baking  powder  and  lastly 
stir  in  whites  of  3  eggs.  Flavor  with  lemon  extract.  The  mix- 
ture should  not  be  stiffer  than  ordinary  cake  batter.  Into  a 
well-greased  and  flour-dredged  cake  tin  pour  about  one-third 
of  the  cake  mixture,  and  into  the  remaining  batter  put  a  few 
drops  of  red  coloring  (I  use  the  capsules  which  come  with, 
gelatine),  and  1  teasp  vanilla  extract.  Beat  all  this  well 
together,  and  drop  half  of  the  pink  batter  in  spoonsful  unevenly 
over  the  white  batter  in  the  tin.  To  the  remaining  batter 
in  the  mixing  bowl  now  add  1  tablesp  grated  chocolate  or 
cocoa,  and  after  stirring  well,  pour  over  the  first  two  layers  in 
the  tin.  Bake  in  a  medium  oven  about  50  minutes  to  1  hour. 
When  strawberries  or  raspberries  are  in  season  the  pink  batter 
can  be  colored  with  fruit  juices. —  [Mrs.  H.  L.,  Va. 

Date  Cake 

Cream  %  cup  butter  with  1  cup  sugar,  add  2  well-Deaten- 
eggs,  V2  cup  sweet  milk,  and  2  cups  flour  sifted  with  2  teasp^ 
baking  powder.  Lastly  add  %  lb  dates  cut  in  fine  pieces  and 
dredged  with  flour.  Flavor  with  rose  and  frost  with  white 
frosting. — [Mrs.  W.  C.  T.,  N.  Y. 

Cocoa  Cake 

Cream  ^  cup  butter  with  2  cups  brown  sugar,  add  2  eggs, 
yolks  and  whites  beaten  separately,  1  cup  sweet  milk,  in  which 
dissolve  1  teasp  soda,  ^  cup  powdered  cocoa,  and  2  cups  sifted 
flour.     Bake  in  loaf. — [Mrs.  L.  E.  G.,  N.  Y. 

Plain  Raisin   Cake 

Cream  2  cups  sugar  with  1  cup  butter,  add  1  cup  milk  and 
ZV2  cups  flour  sifted  with  3  teasp  baking  powder,  1  teasp  cin- 
namon, and  y2  teasp  each  cloves,  allspice  and  nutmeg.  Lastly 
fold  in  1  cup  seeded  raisins  well  dredged  with  flour,  also  some 
citron,  if  desired.  This  makes  one  large  cake  or  two  loaves. — 
[M.  E.  A.,  O. 

Feather  Cake 

To  1  cup  sugar  add  1  tablesp  butter,  1  egg,  %  cup  sweet 
milk,  in  which  dissolve  V2  teasp  soda,  IV2  cups  flour  sifted 
with  1  teasp  each  cream  tartar  and  cinnamon,  and  V2  teasp 
each  cloves  and  nutmeg.  This  makes  a  nice  plain  cake,  r 
sometimes  add  %  cup  raisins  for  a  change. — [Mrs.  E.  D.,  Ida. 


114  THE   ORANGE  JUDD   COOK  BOOK 

Rich   Pound   Cake 

Cream  %  lb  butter  with  1  lb  sugar,  add  7  or  8  eggs,  beat- 
ing the  yolks  and  whites  separately,  and  lastly  add  1  scant  lb 
flour  sifted  with  1  teasp  soda  and  2  teasp  cream  tartar.  Bake 
in  a  slow  oven. — [Mrs.  A.  L.  P.,  Va. 

Spice  Cake 

Cream  together  1  cup  sugar  with  1  cup  shortening;  add  2 
eggs,  1  cup  molasses  and  1  cup  strong,  black  coffee.  Next  add 
4  cups  flour  sifted  with  2  teasp  each  of  baking  powder,  allspice 
and  cinnamon,  and  1  teasp  each  of  cloves  and  nutmeg.  This 
will  keep  for  weeks. —  [Mrs.  C.  E.  P.,  N.  Y. 

Marble  Spice  Cake 

For  the  white  part  cream  i/^  cup  butter  with  1  scant  cup 
sugar.  Add  1  cup  milk,  2  cups  flour  sifted  with  2  teasp  bak- 
ing powder,  and  lastly  the  whites  of  4  eggs.  For  the  dark 
part  cream  %  cup  shortening  with  1  cup  brown  sugar,  add 
yolks  4  eggs,  1  scant  cup  molasses,  1  cup  milk,  and  3  cups  flour 
sifted  with  2  teasp  baking  powder  and  spices  to  suit.  Drop  in 
well  greased  tins  by  tablespoonsful  alternately  the  light  and 
the  dark  batter.    Bake  in  a  moderate  oven. — [Mrs.  C.  E.  D.,  IlL 

Ribbon  Layer  Cake 

For  the  white  part  cream  %  cup  butter  with  1  cup  sugar, 
add  y2  cup  sweet  milk  and  1^/^  cups  flour  sifted  with  1  teasp 
baking  powder.  Lastly  fold  in  3  egg  whites  beaten  stiff,  and 
flavor  to  suit.  For  the  dark  part  cream  V2  cup  shortening,  1 
cup  sugar,  add  the  yolks  of  eggs  and  i/^  cup  sour  milk,  in 
which  1  teasp  soda  has  been  dissolved,  1*^  cups  flour  sifted 
with  cinnamon,  nutmeg  and  cloves  to  taste,  and  lastly  add 
1  cup  seeded  raisins  dredged  with  flour.  Have  the  dark  part 
rather  stiff  and  put  in  a  well  greased  tin,  pouring  the  light 
batter  on  top  of  the  dark.  When  cold  ice  with  pink  frosting. — 
[Mrs.  M.  I.  R..  Mo. 

Devil's  Food 

I  have  found  this  recipe  to  be  always  su«eessful.  Into  a 
double  boiler  or  in  a  pail  which  fits  into  the  top  of  a  teakettle, 
put  %  cup  sweet  milk,  V2  cup  sugar,  1  well-beaten  egg,  and  2 
squares  chocolate  shredded  fine  or  broken  into  small  pieces. 
Stir  and  let  this  cook  until  it  is  thick  and  smooth,  stirring  it  all 
the  while.  When  it  has  thickened,  remove  from  the  fire,  and 
let  cool.  In  a  mixing  bowl  cream  %  cup  sugar  with  i/4  cup 
butter,  add  2  well-beaten  eggs,  V2  cup  milk,  1  teasp  soda  dis- 
solved in  a  very  little  hot  water,  and  scant  1  %  cups  flour.  Fla- 
vor with  vanilla.  Lastly  add  the  chocolate  mixture,  stir  all 
well  together  and  bake  for  about  %  hour  in  a  moderate  oven. 


THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK        115 


Can  also  be  baked  in  layers  and  put  together  with  white  frost- 
ing.—[Mrs.  F.  S.,  N.  Y. 

Old-Fashioned  Pound   Cake 

Cream  1  lb  butter  with  1  lb  sugar,  add  one  at  a  time  the 
yolks  of  1  doz  eggs,  1  lb  flour  sifted  with  1  teasp  baking  powder. 
Add  flour  to  the  above  mixture  alternately  with  the  whites  of 
the  eggs.  Bake  in  loaf  tins  lined  with  greased  paper  all  around, 
and  put  a  sheet  of  greased  paper  over  the  tin  while  baking. 
If  the  oven  seems  too  hot,  set  a  pan  of  water  on  the  grate  above 
the  cake.  The  success  of  this  cake  depends  upon  thorough 
creaming  of  the  butter  and  sugar,  thorough  stirring  after  each 
egg  yolk  is  added,  and  careful  blending  of  the  flour  and  egg 
whites.  The  oven  should  be  moderately  heated,  and  the 
baking  watched  carefully. — [Mrs.  W.  B.  B.,  Ga. 

Dutch  Cake 

To  about  1  qt  light  bread  sponge  add  2  eggs,  1  cup  sugar, 
melted  butter  size  of  an  ess,  %  or  %  cup  lukewarm  water, 
and  flour  enough  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Let  it  rise  until  it  is 
light,  then  spread  on  buttered  pie  plates,  or  milk  pans,  and 
after  rising  again,  bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  When  done  wet 
the  top  slightly  with  water,  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  cinna- 
mon, dot  with  pieces  of  butter,  and  return  to  the  oven  for  a 
few  minutes.  The  same  dough  will  answer  for  buns,  cinnamon 
rolls,  and  old-fashioned  rusks. —  [Mrs.  C.  S.,  Kan. 

Raised  Coffee  Cake 

Scald  2  cups  milk,  add  ^/^  cup  butter,  %  cup  sugar,  and  1 
teasp  salt.  When  lukewarm  add  1  compressed  cake  of  yeast, 
dissolved  in  V2  cup  lukewarm  water,  2  well-beaten  eggs,  and 
enough  flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter.  Lastly  add  1  cup  raisins 
and  V2  cup  citron  cut  fine.  Let  rise  over  night.  In  the  morn- 
ing stir  up  the  mixture  again  and  spread  in  buttered  dripping 
pans  to  a  depth  of  about  %  inch;  cover  and  let  rise,  and  then 
spread  over  the  top  a  frosting  made  as  follows:  Melt  ^ 
cup  butter,  add  %  cup  sugar  and  2  teasp  cinnamon.  When 
the  sugar  is  about  half  melted  add  6  tablesp  flour.  Spread  this 
mixture  over  the  top  of  cakes  and  bake  from  20  to  30  minutes. 
This  makes  two  good-sized  cakes. — [Mrs.  J.  P.  D.,  Neb. 


116  THE   ORANGE   JUDD   COOK   BOOK 


Fillings  and  Fpostin^s 

Beat  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  light,  add  4  tablesp  powdered  sugar 
and  spread  while  cake  is  warm. — [Mrs.  W.  R.  C,  Pa. 

Take  confectioner's  sugar  (not  powdered  sugar)  and- wet 
with  enough  sweet  cream  or  milk  so  it  will  spread  easily. 
Flavor  to  taste. —  [Mrs.  J.  C.  McC,  Vt. 

Dissolve  1  tablesp  cornstarch  in  1  cup  milk,  beat  1  egg  well 
with  y2  cup  sugar  and  add.  Cook  until  thick  and  then  flavor 
with  1  teasp  vanilla.     Spread  when  cool. —  [Mrs.  W.  K.,  Cal. 

Boil  together  until  it  thickens  1  cup  sugar  and  1  cup  sour 
cream.  Remove  from  fire  and  add  1  cup  nut  meats.  I  some- 
times use  chopped  dates  or  figs  for  variety. —  [Mrs.  G.  F.,  Minn. 

Put  in  a  double  boiler  l^/^  cups  milk,  butter  size  of  walnut, 
%  cup  sugar,  1  egg  and  scant  i/^  cup  flour.  Boil  until  it 
thickens,  stirring  constantly.  Flavor  to  taste. —  [Mrs.  S.  E. 
Y.,  Me. 

Boil  slowly  about  %  to  %  hour  1  cup  sweet  cream  with  2 
cups  maple  sugar.  Remove  from  fire,  let  it  cool,  then  stir  in 
1  cup  chopped  English  walnuts  and  beat  until  creamy. — [Mrs. 
J.  C.  H.,  Vt. 

To  1  cup  sugar  add  1  egg,  2  or  3  grated  sour  apples  and  the 
juice  and  grated  rind  of  one  lemon.  Boil  until  it  thickens, 
stirring  constantly.  Cool  before  spreading  on  cake. —  [Mrs. 
R.  N.  P.,  N.  y. 

To  the  beaten  white  of  1  egg  add  1  cup  sugar.  Mix  thor- 
oughly and  then  add  1  cup  strawberries,  crushed.  Beat 
together  with  an  egg  beater  until  it  is  as  thick  as  whipped 
cream. — [O.  A.,  Cal. 

Boil  until  it  candies  1  cup  brown  sugar,  %  cup  sweet  milk, 
1  tablesp  flour  and  1  tablesp  butter.  Remove  from  fire,  beat 
until  creamy  and  spread  between  layers  and  on  top  of  cake. — 
[Mrs.  R.  A.  G.,  N.  Y. 

Soak  1  teasp  granulated  gelatine  in  3  tablesp  hot  water. 
When  dissolved  and  cooled  off  a  little,  add  1  cup  confectioner's 
sugar  and  beat  until  smooth.  Spread  at  once,  or  this  icing  will 
set. —  [Miss  L.  E.  F.,  Can. 


THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK        117 

Cook  in  a  double  boiler  until  it  thickens  1  pt  sweet  cream 
or  rich  milk,  1  egg,  1  tablesp  cornstarch  and  pinch  of  salt.  Stir 
constantly  and  after  it  has  thickened  remove  from  fire  and 
flavor  to  taste. — [Miss  B.  C,  la. 

Boil  until  it  threads  Vz  lb  maple  sugar  and  Vz  cup  milk. 
Remove  from  fire  and  pour  the  hot  syrup  over  the  beaten  whites 
of  2  eggs.  Stir  until  it  begins  to  thicken,  then  spread  quickly 
between  layers  of  cake. —  [E.  L.  McG.,  Mich. 

Stir  well  and  let  boil  until  it  thickens  1  cup  sugar,  1  cup 
sweet  milk,  4  tablesp  grated  chocolate  or  cocoa,  and  yolks  of  2 
eggs.  Remove  from  fire,  add  1  teasp  vanilla,  beat  well,  and 
spread  between  layers. —  [Mrs.  R.  A.  G.,  N.  Y. 

Set  1  cup  thick,  sweet  cream  on  ice  until  it  is  cold  and  stifT 
and  whip  with  an  egg  beater  as  you  would  egg  white,  then 
add  sugar  and  flavoring  to  taste.  It  is  best  not  to  prepare  this 
filling  until  shortly  before  wanted  for  serving. — [Mrs.  V.  A.  H., 
N.  D. 

To  1  cup  maple  sugar  add  1  cup  coffee  sugar  and  1  cup  sweet 
cream.  Heat  slowly  until  it  dissolves  and  then  boil  steadily 
for  about  %  hour.  Remove  from  fire,  add  1  cup  chopped  pecan 
nuts,  stir  until  cold,  and  spread  between  cakes. —  [Mrs.  J.  C. 
H.,  Vt. 

To  %  cup  sugar  add  2  tablesp  flour,  a  little  grated  orange 
rind,  ii  cup  orange  juice,  2  teasp  lemon  juice,  1  teasp  butter 
and  1  beaten  egg.  Mix  in  order  given  and  cook  in  a  double 
boiler,  stirring  constantly  until  thick.  Cool  before  spreading 
on  cake. — {Mrs.  J.  S.  D.,  N.  Y. 

Here  is  a  good  substitute  when  cream  is  not  at  hand :  Scrape 
or  grate  1  good-sized  apple  into  1  cup  of  sugar.  Keep  on  mix- 
ing to  prevent  the  apple  from  turning  dark,  then  add  the 
beaten  white  of  1  egg  and  beat  for  about  20  to  30  minutes.  Add 
vanilla  flavor. — [Mrs.  C.  W.  J.,  O. 

Melt  1  teasp  butter  with  1  tablesp  flour,  stir  in  the  grated 
rind  of  1  lemon  and  the  juice  of  2  lemons,  with  1  cup  sugar,  1 
egg  and  %  cup  water.  Boil  until  it  thickens  and  spread 
between  layers  of  cake.  This  will  taste  better  if  kept  a  day  or 
two  before  cake  is  cut. —  [E.  L.,  Neb. 

Cook  until  it  is  thick  and  ready  to  candy,  2  cups  brown 
sugar,  ^2  cup  thick  cream,  and  butter  size  of  walnut.  Remove 
from  fire,  beat  until  cool  and  add  1  teasp  vanilla.  Sometimes 
I  use  white  sugar  and  lemon  flavor,  and  add  grated  cocoanut 
at  the  last. —  [Mrs.  V.  A.  H.,  N.  D. 


lis  THE   ORANGE   JUDD   COOK   BOOK 


Boil  1  cup  sugar  with  %  cup  water  until  it  threads,  then 
pour  on  the  beaten  white  of  1  egg  and  beat  until  smooth,  after 
which  add  ^  cup  each  of  figs  and  raisins  cut  fine,  14  cup  wal- 
nut meats  cut  fine,  and  ^  cup  grated  coccanut.  Spread 
between  and  on  top  of  cake. —  [Mrs.  H.  M.,  Mo 

Put  white  of  1  egg  in  a  deep  bowl,  add  1  cup  sugar  and  1  cup 
red  raspberries  crushed  and  the  juice  drained  off.  Whip  for 
about  V2  hour.  If  beaten  long  enough,  this  filling  will  be  stifC 
and  light,  like  whipped  cream.  It  does  not  soak  into  the 
cake  at  all,  and  is  truly  delicious. — [Mrs.  S.  C.  S.,  N.  Y. 

This  makes  a  nice,  glossy  frosting  for  the  top  of  a  cake. 
Boil  together  for  a  few  minutes  1  heaping  tablesp  grated  choco- 
late, 2  tablesp  sugar  and  1  tablesp  boiling  water.  Remove  from 
fire,  flavor  with  vanilla,  and  spread  on  cake  before  icing  is  cold, 
using  a  broad-bladed  knife  dipped  in  cold  water  to  smooth  it. 
If  the  icing  seems  too  thick,  add  a  little  more  boiling  water, 
but  never  use  cold  water. — [Miss  U.  R.,  la. 

Soak  1  scant  tablesp  granulated  gelatine  in  enough  cold 
water  to  cover  it.  When  it  is  soft  add  scant  V2  cup  boiling 
water  and  stir  till  dissolved,  then  add  %  cup  sugar  and  any 
preferred  flavoring.  Beat  with  an  egg  beater  until  the  mix- 
ture is  white  and  begins  to  get  firm.  Before  it  gets  too  stiff, 
beat  into  it  1  pt  of  whipped  cream.  The  cream  should  be 
whipped  first,  and  the  gelatine  mixture  should  be  added  to  it 
gradually.  This  filling  will  keep  stiff  indefinitely.  Be  careful 
not  to  use  too  much  gelatine. — [Mrs.  K.  R.  F.,  Tex. 


Ices,  Ice  Qreant  and  Qontections 

HAT  is  more  delightfully  cooling  and  refresh- 
ing than  frozen  fruit  ices  and  ice  cream  ?  And 
not  only  are  they  most  palatable,  but  ice  cream 
is  nourishing  as  well,  and  of  great  value  in  the 
sick  room.  Pure,  homemade  candies  also  pos- 
sess dietetic  value,  and  when  partaken  of  spar- 
ingly and  only  occasionally,  can  do  no  harm,  except  perhaps 
to  those  whose  state  of  health  requires  total  abstinence  from 
all  sweets.  The  following  directions  and  recipes  will  doubt- 
less answer  all  the  needs  of  the  family  of  average 
means,  in  that  particular  branch  of  the  art  of  cookery. 

How  to  Freeze  Ices  and  Creams 

Small  freezers,  for  family  use,  can  now  be  had  at  such 
reasonable  prices,  that  almost  nine  out  of  every  ten  house- 
keepers can  count  a  freezer  among  her  necessary  cooking  uten- 
sils. On  farms  where  milk,  cream,  eggs  and  fruit  are  plenti- 
ful, the  chief  item  of  expense,  when  making  ice  cream,  is  the 
ice — unless  the  farm  can  also  boast  of  a  well-filled  ice-house — 
but  even  if  not,  5c  or  10c  worth  of  ice  will  go  a  long  way. 

Put  the  ice  in  a  bag  and  crush  fine  by  pounding  with  a 
•wooden  mallet  or  the  broad  side  of  an  axe — there  should  be 
no  pieces  larger  than  a  walnut — the  finer,  the  better.  Use 
three  parts  coarse  rock  salt  to  one  part  crushed  ice, 
evenly  distributed  and  pack  closely  and  solidly  around  the  can 
in  the  freezer.  The  cream  will  freeze  more  quickly  if  more 
salt  is  used,  but  will  not  be  so  fine  grained.  Remember  that 
freezing  increases  the  bulk  of  the  cream  mixture,  and  there- 
fore never  fill  the  can  more  than  three-quarters  full.  The 
ice  and  salt  need  come  up  no  further  than  the  contents  of  can. 

Cover  the  can  closely,  adjust  the  top,  and  make  sure  that 
the  can  fits  in  the  socket,  so  that  the  crank  may  be  turned 
readily.  Turn  the  crank  slowly  and  steadily  at  first,  after- 
wards more  rapidly,  until  it  becomes  difficult  to  turn,  which 
is  the  sign  that  freezing  has  been  accomplished.  More  ice 
and  salt  may  be  added,  from  time  to  time,  if  necessary,  but 
the  water  should  not  be  drawn  off  before  the  freezing  is 
done,  unless  it  gets  so  high  that  it  threatens  to  run  over  into 
the  can.  It  is  the  salt  water  that  does  the  freezing,  and  it  is 
the  salt  that  melts  the  ice,  and  the  more  salt,  the  quicker  the 

;ii9 


120        THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK 


freezing,     although,     as     before     mentioned,     quick     freezing 
produces  a  coarse  grained  cream. 

After  the  mixture  is  well  frozen,  draw  the  water  off,  care- 
fully remove  cover  and  dasher,  and  pack  the  cream  down 
solidly,  then  return  the  cover,  closing  the  opening  in  same 
securely  with  a  cork,  and  repack  the  freezer,  using  four  parts 
crushed  ice  to  one  part  salt.  Cover  with  a  piece  of  carpet  or 
quilt,  and  let  stand  at  least  two  or  three  hours  to  "ripen," 
before  serving,  although  it  may  stand  even  longer. 

Lemon  or  Orange  Ice 

For  a  lemon  ice  boil  together  20  minutes  2  cups  sugar  with 
4  cups  water,  or  until  it  syrups,  then  add  %  oup  strained 
lemon  juice,  let  get  cold,  and  then  freeze.  Proceed  the  same 
for  orange  ice,  only  use  less  lemon — about  ^,  cup  lemon  juice 
' — and  2  cups  orange  juice,  with  the  grated  rind  of  2  oranges. 

Strawberry,  Raspberry  and  Currant  Ices 

To  1^/4  cups  sugar  add  4  cups  water  and  boil  20  minutes,  or 
until  it  syrups,  then  add  either  2  cups  strawberry,  raspberry 
or  currant  juice  (a  mixture  of  half  raspberry  and  half  currant 
Is  nice),  and  in  the  case  of  strawberry  or  raspberry  alone, 
add  to  the  former  1  tablesp  and  to  the  latter  2  tablesp  lemon 
juice.  Let  the  mixture  get  cold,  and  then  freeze.  To  obtain 
the  pure  fruit  juice,  mash,  heat  a  little,  but  add  no  water,  and 
squeeze  through  a  cheese  cloth  bag.  Strain  again  if  the  liquid 
does  not  look  clear  enough. 

Milk  Sherbet 

Mix  together  1%  cups  sugar  and  the  juice  of  3  lemons  (if 
small  or  not  very  juicy,  use  4  lemons)  and  then  add,  slowly 
and  gradually,  stirring  constantly,  4  cups  milk.  If  this  is 
■carefully  done,  it  will  not  curdle,  but  if  it  should  happen 
to  curdle,  it  will  not  spoil  the  sherbet,  though  it  may  not 
look  so  nice.     Freeze. 

Peach  Sherbet 

To  2  cups  sugar  add  1  qt  water  and  about  10  peach  kernels, 
and  bcil  20  minutes,  then  add  1  teasp  clear  granulated  gela- 
tine, soaked  in  2  tablesp  cold  water,  and  stir  until  dissolved. 
Let  get  cold,  and  then  add  1%  cups  mashed  peach  pulp  (fully 
ripe  peaches  mashed  through  a  sieve),  and  the  juice  of  1 
lemon  and  2  oranges.     Freeze. 

Coffee  Sherbet 

To  %  or  %  cup  finely  ground  coffee  add  1  beaten  egg  and 
the  crushed  shell,  then  stir  in   %   cup  cold  water,  and  when 


>o 

(M 

0) 
tUD 

ci 

ft 

i=l 
O 

ft 
'o 
O) 

fn 

cu 

CD 

in 


THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK        121 


well  mixed,  add  6  cups  boiling  water  and  let  boil  2  or  3  min- 
utes, but  no  longer,  then  add  2  teasp  clear  granulated  gela- 
tine soaked  in  2  tablesp  cold  water,  and  stir  till  dissolved,  then 
strain  through  cheese  cloth  wrung  out  of  hot  water.  Add  to 
the  strained  liquid  1^^  cups  sugar,  and  when  dissolved  and 
cold,  freeze.  Serve  in  glass  cups,  each  one  topped  off  with  a 
spoonful  of  whipped  cream. 

Grape  Sherbet 

To  1  pt  sugar  add  1  qt  water  and  boil  20  minutes,  then  add 
1  teasp  clear  granulated  gelatine  soaked  in  1  tablesp  cold 
water,  and  when  dissolved,  remove  from  fire,  add  1  pt  clear 
grape  juice,  and  the  juice  of  2  lemons.     Cool  and  freeze. 

Pineapple   Frappe 

To  1%  cups  sugar  add  2  cups  water  and  boil  15  minutes, 
then  add  juice  of  3  lemons  and  a  fresh  pineapple,  shredded 
(or  canned  pineapple,  but  in  that  case  use  less  sugar  in  the 
syrup).  Remove  from  fire  and  stir  in  2  cups  cold  water,  and 
when  cold,  freeze,  using  equal  parts  of  ice  and  salt.  Other 
juicy  fruits  or  berries  can  be  used  the  same  way. 

Vanilla  or  Chocolate  Ice  Cream 

Mix  well  together  1  cup  sugar,  1  tablesp  flour  and  %  teasp 
salt,  then  add  1  beaten  egg,  and  very  gradually  2  cups  hot 
milk.  Cook  in  a  double  boiler  20  minutes,  stirring  constantly, 
and  when  cold  add  1  qt  cream  (thin),  and  2  tablesp  vanilla 
extract.  The  mixture  should  be  nice  and  smooth,  like  custard, 
but  should  it  happen  to  curdle,  it  will  not  show  after  freez- 
ing, nor  affect  the  taste.  Freeze.  For  chocolate  ice  cream 
use  only  1  tablesp  vanilla,  and  add  1  or  l^/^  squares  of  bitter 
chocolate,  or  an  equal  quantity  of  cocoa.  Ice  creams  should 
taste  very  sweet  before  freezing.  For  variety,  when  making 
vanilla  ice  cream,  burn  half  the  sugar  (to  make  a  caramel) 
and  add  it  to  the  hot  custard.  Chopped  nut  meats  added  to 
vanilla  ice  cream  is  also  nice. 

Coffee  Ice  Cream 

Scald  together  lYz  cups  milk  and  Vz  cup  freshly  made, 
strong,  black  coffee,  then  gradually  add  this  to  1 V4,  cups  sugar 
mixed  with  2  beaten  eggs  and  a  pinch  of  salt,  stirring  vigor= 
ously,  and  cook  in  a  double  boiler  until  thickened,  then  add, 
slowly  and  gradually,  1  qt  cream,  stirring  constantly,  and  let 
stand  on  back  of  range  about  20  minutes.     Cool  and  freeze. 


122        THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK 


Unboiled  Foundation  Cream 

Into  a  bowl  put  the  white  of  1  egg,  V2  tablesp  cold  water, 
and  %  teasp  vanilla,  and  beat  until  well  mixed,  then  add 
gradually  1  lb  confectioner's  sugar  (or  a  little  less),  until  stlfE 
enough  to  handle  or  knead.  This  cream  can  be  used  in  various 
ways.  For  creamed  walnuts,  break  off  small  pieces,  shape  into 
small,  fiat  cakes,  and  press  half  a  walnut  on  either  side  of 
each  cake.  For  chocolate  crear  drops,  shape  into  small  balls, 
stick  on  end  of  knitting  needl-  or  a  toothpick,  and  dip  in 
melted  chocolate,  to  which  no  water  has  been  added.  For  nut 
bars,  work  chopped  nut  meats  into  the  cream,  and  cut  in  small 
bars.     The  cream  can  be  flavored  and  colored  to  suit. 

Colorings  for  Candy 

Prepared  cochineal  is  harmless  and  tasteless,  used  in  small 
quantities,  and  produces  all  the  pretty  and  varying  shades  from 
a  light  pink  to  a  deep  red.  Buy  1  oz  powdered  cochineal  at 
the  drug  store  and  boil  it  with  5  grains  bi-carbonate  of  soda 
and  ^A  pt  soft  water  until  reduced  one-half,  then  add  2 
drachms  erch  of  powdered  alum  and  cream  of  tartar,  let  boil 
10  minutes  longer,  and  strain  through  double  cheese  cloth. 
Bottle  and  cork.     From  5  to  10  drops  is  enough  to  color  candy. 

A  nice  yellow  color  is  obtained  by  using  more  or  less  of  the 
grated  rind  of  an  orange,  or  the  following  preparation:  Boil 
1  oz  English  hay-saffron  in  1  pt  water  until  reduced  one-half, 
then  strain,  and  bottle  and  cork.  Be  careful  not  to  use  too 
much  of  this  coloring,  or  you  may  find  the  flavoring  objec- 
tionable. 

Pretty  amber  or  light  brown  colors  can  be  obtained  by  using 
a  few  drops,  more  or  less,  of  caramel,  which  is  prepared  as 
follows:  Put  %  pt  sugar  in  a  granite-ware  kettle  over  the 
fire,  and  stir  constantly  until  it  melts  and  begins  to  smoke  and 
burn,  then  quickly  add  %  pt  water,  and  stir  and  boil  until  a 
thick  syrup,  the  consistency  of  molasses.  Bottle  and  cork. 
Will  keep  a  year. 

Use  spinach  greens  to  obtain  green  shades.  Boil  down  to  a 
very  small  quantity,  then  strain  and  boil  the  juice  again  until 
it  curdles,  after  which  strain  again  and  let  the  soft  residue 
dry  in  the  air  until  it  forms  a  thick  paste,  then  rub  in  an  equal 
quantity  of  powdered  sugar,  and  when  smooth,  put  away  in 
a  covered  glass  jar. 

Peppermint  Drops 

Stir  until  dissolved  1  %  cups  sugar  and  %  cup  boiling  water, 
then  boil  10  minutes,  remove  from  fire,  add  6  to  8  drops  oil 
of  peppermint,  and  beat  until  the  right  consistency  to  drop 
from  tip  of  spoon  on  buttered  paper. 


THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK        123 


Gum  Drops  or  Wafers 

Soak  1  oz  gum  tragacanth  (bought  at  drug  store)  in  1  cup 
cold  water  about  24  hours,  and  then  rub  through  a  fine  wire 
sieve.  Knead  in  enough  confectioner's  sugar  so  the  mass  can 
be  handled,  and  add  flavoring  and  coloring  as  preferred.  Roll 
thin  on  a  smooth  board  dredged  with  confectioner's  sugar,  cut 
in  small  squares  or  fancy  shapes,  and  roll  in  granulated  sugar. 

Plain  Molasses  Candy 

Put  3  tablesp  butter  in  a  small  granite-ware  kettle,  place 
over  fire,  and  when  melted,  add  2  cups  molasses  and  %  cup 
sugar,  stirring  until  sugar  is  dissolved.  Boil  steadily  until, 
when  a  little  is  dropped  in  cold  water,  the  candy  will  become 
brittle.  Stir  constantly,  to  prevent  burning  and  boiling  over. 
Just  before  removing  from  the  fire,  add  1  tablesp  vinegar, 
and  pour  the  mixture  on  a  well-buttered  pie  plate.  When  cool 
enough  to  handle,  pull  until  the  candy  is  porous  and  light 
colored,  using  the  hands,  well  buttered,  but  be  careful  to 
handle  the  candy  lightly,  between  fingers  and  thumbs.  Squeez- 
ing between  the  hands  would  spoil  it.  Cut  in  small  pieces  with 
a  sharp  knife,  and  arrange  on  buttered  plates  to  cool. 

Velvet  Molasses  Candy 

Put  over  the  fire,  in  a  granite-ware  kettle,  1  cup  molasses, 
3  cups  sugar,  1  cup  boiling  water,  and  3  tablesp  vinegar. 
When  it  reaches  the  boiling  point,  add  ^  teasp  cream  of 
tartar,  and  boil  until,  when  a  little  is  dropped  in  cold  water, 
it  will  become  brittle.  Stir  constantly,  and  when  nearly  done! 
add  V2  cup  melted  butter  and  ^  teasp  soda.  Pour  on  a  but- 
tered pie  plate,  and  when  cool  enough  to  handle,  pull,  same  as 
directed  in  recipe  for  plain  molasses  candy,  working  in,  while 
pulling  1  teasp  vanilla  and  V2  teasp  lemon  extract,  or  a  few: 
drops  of    peppermint  or  oil  of  wintergreen. 

Sugar  Candy 

Put  2  tablesp  butter  in  a  granite-ware  kettle,  and  when 
melted  add  2  cups  sugar  and  %  cup  vinegar.  Stir  until  sugar 
is  dissolved,  and  boil  until  when  a  little  of  the  mixture  is  drop- 
ped in  cold  water  it  will  become  brittle.  Pour  on  a  buttered 
pie  plate,  and  pull,  the  same  as  molasses  candy. 

Cream    Candy 

Into  an  agate-ware  kettle  put  3  cups  sugar,  ^  cup  boiling 
water,  V2  tablesp  vinegar,  and  14  teasp  cream  of  tartar.  Stir 
until  the  sugar  is  dissolved,  then  boil  without  stirring  until 
it  will  brittle  when  a  little  is  dropped  in  cold  water.  Pour  on 
a  buttered  plate,  and  as  soon  as  it  can  be  handled,  pull  until 


124  THE   ORANGE   JUDD   COOK  BOOK 


white  and  glossy,  meanwhile  working  in  any  desired  flavor — « 
lemon,  orange  or  vanilla  extract,  or  a  few  drops  of  oil  of  win- 
tergreen  or  sassafras,  or  peppermint.  Cut  In  small  pieces  and 
lay  on  a  buttered  plate  to  cool. 

Old-Fashioned    Butter    Scotch 

Boil  together  until  it  will  brittle,  1  cup  sugar,  %  cup  molas- 
ses, %  cup  butter,  2  tablesp  boiling  water,  and  1  tablesp  vine- 
gar, then  pour  on  a  buttered  plate,  and  before  it  hardens, 
mark  in  squares  with  a  knife.  If  liked,  a  little  vanilla  ex- 
tract or  cinnamon  may  be  added,  after  removing  from  fire. 

Plain  Butter  Taflfy 

Boil  until  it  brittles,  2  cups  brown  sugar,  %  cup  molasses, 
2  tablesp  each  vinegar  and  water,  and  %  teasp  salt.  When 
nearly  done  add  M:  cup  butter,  and  after  removing  from  fire, 
2  teasp  vanilla  extract.  Pour  on  a  buttered  plate,  and  before 
it  hardens,  mark  in  squares  with  a  knife. 

Horehound  Taffy 

Buy  any  desired  quantity  of  pressed  horehound  at  the  drug 
store,  cut  off  a  piece  about  1  inch  square,  and  steep  1  minute 
in  2  cups  boiling  water,  then  strain  through  a  double  cheese 
cloth,  add  3  cups  sugar  and  %  teasp  cream  of  tartar,  and  boil 
until  it  will  brittle,  then  pour  on  a  buttered  plate,  and  before  it 
hardens,  mark  with  a  knife  in  small  squares. 

Chocolate  or  Nut  Caramels 

Put  21/^  tablesp  butter  in  a  kettle  over  the  fire,  and  when 
melted  add  2  cups  molasses,  1  cup  brown  sugar,  and  V2  cup 
milk.  Stir  until  sugar  is  dissolved,  let  come  to  the  boiling 
point,  then  add  2  or  3  squares  bitter  chocolate,  and  stir  until 
it  is  melted.  Boil  until,  when  a  little  is  dropped  in  cold 
water,  it  can  be  shaped  into  a  soft,  firm  ball,  between  the 
fingers,  then  remove  from  fire,  add  1  teasp  vanilla,  pour  on  a 
buttered  plate,  and  when  cool,  mark  in  inch  squares  with  a 
sharp  knife.  To  make  nut  caramels,  add  to  the  above  1  lb 
English  walnuts,  chopped  fine,  or  y2  lb  blanched  almonds, 
chopped,  or  any  other  nut  meats. 

Cocoanut   Candy 

Put  2  teasp  butter  in  a  granite-ware  saucepan,  and  when 
melted  add  1^  cups  sugar  and  1  cup  milk,  and  stir  until  sugar 
is  dissolved.  Boil  12  minutes  after  it  begins  to  boil,  then 
remove  from  fire  and  add  V2  teasp  vanilla  and  %  cup  grated 
or  shredded  cocoanut,  and  beat  until  creamy,  then  pour  on  a 
buttered  plate,  cool,  and  mark  in  squares  with  a  sharp  knife. 
Any  nut  meats  may  be  used  instead  of  cocoanut. 


Beverages  and  Syrups 

OLD  water  would  suffice  as  a  beverage  for 
man,  were  he  minded  to  so  limit  himself, 
and  providing  the  water  was  pure,  the  cause 
of  good  health  would  certainly  be  better 
served  by  abstinence  from  some  of  the  con- 
coctions and  brews  that  have  followed  in 
the  wake  of  civilization.  However,  this  is  not  saying  that 
water  is  the  only  healthful  drink.  When  properly  made,  and 
not  indulged  in  to  excess,  the  beverages  prepared  according 
to  the  following  recipes  will  be  found  to  be  not  only  harm- 
less, but  pleasant,  nutritious  and  refreshing — making  all 
due  allowances  for  those  who,  on  account  of  some  organic 
trouble  or  physical  disability,  have  been  cautioned  by  their 
physicians  to  abstain  from  certain  drinks. 

Drinking  Water 

It  is  of  the  utmost  importance  that  water  used  for  drinking 
and  cooking  should  be  absolutely  pure.  To  be  careless  about 
this  matter  is  to  invite  malaria,  typhoid  and  many  other  dan- 
gerous diseases.  If  any  doubt  exists  as  to  the  purity  of  the 
water,  which  supplies  your  family,  have  it  examined.  Often 
this  question  of  drinking  water  is  the  hinge  on  which  the 
whole  subject  of  health  turns.  Filters  require  great  care  and 
close  attention  to  secure  absolute  cleanliness,  by  frequent 
changes  of  the  filtering  material,  or  they  will  only  make  a 
bad  matter  worse.  The  safest  way  is  to  boil  water,  when  its 
purity  is  doubtful,  and  cool  it  in  clean,  tightly  corked  bottles. 
Boiling  destroys  disease  germs. 

The  well  or  source  of  water  supply  should  on  no  account 
be  situated  anywhere  near  to  barn,  stable,  cesspools,  manure 
heaps,  earth  closets,  or  any  other  possible  means  of  contam- 
ination, since  the  fluid  from  these  filters  through  the  earth 
and  is  often  carried  considerable  distances,  finally  joining 
veins  or  springs  of  water  that  flow  to  the  well.  Look  into 
this  water  question  most  carefully,  and  spare  neither  trouble 
nor  expense  to  make  it  right.  Remember,  there  is  no  health- 
ful substitute  for  pure  water — nature's  provision  for  one  of 
man's  chief  needs. 

125 


126        THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK 


Milk  and  Its  Care 

Milk,  though  classed  as  a  beverage,  is  in  reality  a  food. 
However,  milk  alone,  as  a  food,  would  not  sufiQce  for  the 
average  adult,  who  requires  well-balanced  food,  in  which  the 
liquid  does  not  exceed  the  other  needful  food  elements,  but 
when  milk  is  taken  with  a  meal,  less  other  food  is  required. 
Raw  milk  should  be  sipped  very  slowly,  and  if  a  very  little 
lime  or  barley  water  is  added,  it  can  be  retained  and  digested 
by  the  most  delicate  stomach. 

The  question  of  cleanliness  in  the  handling  and  storing  of 
milk  is  as  important  in  its  relation  to  health  as  is  the  water 
question.  Milking  should  be  done  under  the  strictest  sanitary 
conditions.  Negligence  in  this  respect  is  positively  criminal. 
That  lawmakers  have  been  obliged  to  force  this  issue  is  not 
creditable  to  farmers  and  dairymen,  for  in  these  days  of 
enlightenment  and  free  information  and  scientific  researches, 
they  cannot  even  plead  ignorance  as  an  excuse.  Many  a  child 
has  gone  to  an  untimely  grave  because  of  some  one's  lack  of 
conscience  in  this  matter.  However,  it  is  not  always  the 
dairyman  who  is  responsible — often  the  housewife  or  mother 
is  to  blame,  for  though  the  milk  may  come  to  her  hands  pure, 
her  negligence  may  cause  the  greatest  mischief. 

Milk  is  one  of  the  best  soils  for  the  growth  and  multiplica- 
tion of  certain  disease  germs — hence  the  great  need  of  cleanli- 
ness, from  the  time  it  is  yielded  by  a  healthy  cow,  until  it  is 
consumed.  It  would  take  a  full  chapter  to  do  justice  to  this 
question  of  the  sanitary  care  and  handling  of  milk,  but  any- 
one who  is  not  an  idiot  can  figure  it  out  for  himself  and  there- 
fore, no  more  need  to  be  said  about  it  here.  One  more  caution 
— remember  that  milk  readily  absorbs  odors  and  flavors,  so 
be  sure  to  always  keep  it  tightly  sealed, 

Konmiss 

Koumiss  is  frequently  ordered  by  physicians  for  patients 
who  are  convalescent  an  who  require  an  easily  digested  and 
nutritious  tonic.  It  is  prepared  as  follows:  Heat  pure,  fresh 
milk  to  about  100  degrees,  then  add  to  each  qt  l*/^  tablesp 
sugar,  1  tablesp  fresh,  lively  yeast  or  a  liberal  ^  cake  of 
fresh  compressed  yeast,  dissolved  in  1  tablesp  lukewarm 
water,  stir  until  thoroughly  mixed,  and  then  put  in  pint  bottles 
to  within  about  2  Inches  of  the  top,  and  cork  tightly  and  tie 
the  corks  down  securely.  Let  stand  from  10  to  12  hours  in  a 
temperature  of  about  60  to  70  degrees,  after  which  it  will  be 
ready  for  drinking.  Keep  in  a  cool  place  and  chill  before 
using.  The  average  dose  for  an  adult  is  1  glass,  three  times 
a  day.  Do  not  prepare  too  much  koumiss  at  once,  as  it  is 
not   good   when   it  gets   old.      One   qt   milk,   with   the   other 


THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK        127 


ingredients,  will  be  about  enough  for  3  pt  bottles,  and  more 
than  that  should  not  be  prepared  at  one  time  for  only  one 
patient. — [A.    G.,    Mass. 

Egg-Nogg 

Beat  the  yolks  of  3  eggs  and  2  or  3  tablesp  powdered  sugar 
to  a  cream,  add  the  beaten  whites  and  a  little  grated  nutmeg, 
%  cup  cream,  stirring  well,  and  gradually  1  pt  fresh  milk. 
Vanilla  flavor  may  be  used  instead  of  nutmeg,  if  liked.  Serve 
very  cold. — [A.    G.,   Mass. 

Tea 

The  water  for  tea  should  be  drawn  fresh  and  brought  to  a 
quick  boil  and  used  immediately.  Stale  water  that  has  lost 
3ts  sparkle,  or  water  that  has  been  standing  in  the  kettle  will 
not  make  good  tea.  Of  course,  teapot  and  kettle  should  be 
kept  scrupulously  clean.  Rinse  the  teapot  (china  or  earthen- 
ware), with  boiling  water,  put  in  1  teasp  tea  for  each  cup 
or  person  to  be  served,  pour  on  the  boiling  water  (water 
must  be  boiling  furiously),  cover  the  teapot  closely,  and  set 
on  back  of  range  to  steep  from  3  to  5  minutes,  but  no  longer, 
and  serve  at  once.  Over-steeped  tea  is  not  healthful,  and  even 
dangerous,  while  properly  prepared  tea  is  harmless  and  mildly 
stimulating.  If  too  strong,  add  hot  water  to  each  cup  when 
pouring,  and  if  not  strong  enough,  use  more  tea.  Serve 
with  unboiled  cream.  If  a  good  tea  leaf  was  used,  and  these 
directions  are  faithfully  followed,  a  delicious  and  refreshing 
brew  will  be  the  result.  Always  keep  the  dry  tea  in  a  closed 
canister  and  never  allow  left-over  tea  to  remain  in  teapot. 
For  iced  tea,  pour  the  freshly  made  tea  from  the  leaves  into 
a  pitcher  and  let  cool,  after  which  add  ice  and  serve  as  soon 
as  chilled.— [Mrs.  J.  C,  N.  Y. 

Coffee 

There  are  three  methods  of  preparing  coffee — one  by  filter- 
ing, the  other  by  boiling,  and  the  other  by  the  careless  process 
which  produces  a  muddy  and  ill-flavored  concoction  which  is 
as  harmful  as  it  is  unpalatable.  In  the  first  place,  the  water 
should  be  freshly  boiled  (see  directions  for  tea),  and  the 
coffee  pot  must  be  immaculately  clean — of  china,  earthen  or 
graniteware.  Never  allow  left-over  coffee  to  stand  in  the 
coffee  pot,  and  scald  the  latter  about  once  a  week,  adding 
a  little  soda  to  the  water.  The  coffee  pot  should  be  rinsed 
with  boiling  water,  and  the  fresh  water  for  the  coffee  be  boil- 
ing furiously.  If  a  filtered  coffee  is  desired,  use  a  regular 
filterer  or  a  homemade  one,  consisting  of  a  round  cheesecloth 


128        THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK 


bag  with  a  wire  run  through  the  hem  at  the  top,  the  circle 
a  little  wider  than  the  top  of  the  coffee  pot,  so  that  vrhen  the 
bag  is  suspended  in  the  pot,  the  edge  of  the  bag  may  turn 
over  the  edge  of  the  pot,  and  permit  the  cover  to  be  put 
on,  and  put  1  tablesp  finely-ground  coffee  for  each  cup  or 
person  to  be  served  into  the  filterer,  and  pour  over  the  freshly 
boiling  water.  Keep  the  coffee  pot  standing  in  another  pot 
of  boiling  water,  to  keep  hot.  The  filtered  coffee  may  be 
turned  over  the  grounds  in  the  filterer  for  a  second  time,  to 
extract  all  the  strength,  and  the  coffee  should  then  be  served 
at  once,  with  rich,  boiling  hot  milk,  or  thick,  sweet  uncooked 
cream. 

The  coffee  for  filtering  should  always  be  ground  very  fine, 
but  for  boiled  coffee,  it  should  be  ground  coarse.  For  the 
latter  put  the  coffee  right  into  the  pot,  pour  over  the  boiling 
water,  cover  closely,  let  boil  up  1  minute,  then  move  to  back 
of  stove  and  let  draw  5  minutes,  but  no  longer,  pour  off 
carefully  through  a  fine  sieve  into  another  hot  coffee  pot, 
and  serve  at  once.  If  properly  prepared,  the  coffee  will  not 
be  muddy  and  no  egg  nor  shells  will  be  required  to  "settle'* 
it.  The  "settling,"  if  necessary,  is  accomplished  just  as  well 
with  a  dash  of  cold  water.  A  good  quality  coffee,  well  roasted, 
is  essential  to  good  results.  Do  not  grind  a  lot  of  coffee  at 
once,  and  keep  the  beans  in  a  tightly  covered  canister,  so  that 
they  may  not  take  on  any  other  flavors,  and  that  none  of 
the  aroma  escapes.  If  the  beans  are  in  the  slightest  degree 
damp,  they  will  be  hard  to  grind.  They  can  be  made  fresh 
and  crisp  by  placing  in  a  hot  oven  a  few  minutes,  and  cooling 
quickly. —  [Mrs.  J.  C.  N.  Y. 

Cereal   Coffee 

The  directions  which  are  printed  on  the  package  in  which 
cereal  coffee  is  bought  should  be  carefully  followed,  and  the 
same  rules  for  tea  and  coffee,  regarding  fresh  water  and  clean 
pots,  are  applicable  here  too.  Cereal  coffee  requires  long 
cooking,  and  when  properly  prepared  is  not  only  harmless, 
but  delicious,  nutritious  and  easily  digested. —  [A.    G.,   Mass. 

Homemade   Cereal   Coffee 

To  1  qt  wheat  bran  add  1  pt  corn  meal,  V2  cup  molasses, 
and  1  egg.  Mix  well  together,  then  spread  in  a  pie  pan  about 
V2  inch  thick,  and  brown  slowly  and  evenly  in  the  oven. 
Watch  carefully,  as  it  burns  easily,  and  if  burned  it  would  spoil 
the  flavor.  Some  people  like  to  add  a  very  little  butter  or 
salt  to  the  mixture.  When  browned  and  dry,  store  in  covered 
tin  cans.  To  make  coffee  use  1  cup  of  this  cereal  mixture  for 
1   qt  coffee,   and  let  boil    1   hour  or   more — it   requires   long 


THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK        129 


boiling  to  bring  out  the  flavor.  If  desired,  1  tablesp  grounS 
coffee  may  be  added  during  the  last  5  minutes  of  boiling.  Serve 
with  cream  and  sugar. —  [Mrs.  V.  R.  L.,  Pa. 

Cocoa  and  Cocoa  Shells 

Use  half  and  half  scalded  milk  and  boiling  water  in  a 
double  boiler,  allow  1  level  teasp  each  of  cocoa  powder  and 
sugar  for  each  cup  of  liquid,  mix  these  well  in  a  cup,  fill  gradu- 
ally with  the  boiling  mixture,  stirring  to  free  from  lumps,  and 
then  turn  into  the  rest  of  the  milk,  boil  5  minutes,  and  serve 
at  once,  with  or  without  extra  thick,  sweet  cream.  First 
boiling  the  cocoa  in  the  water  and  then  adding  the  scalded 
milk  is  an  improvement.  Cocoa  shells  or  "nibs"  are  cheap 
and  make  a  delicious  drink.  Be  sure  they  are  fresh.  Allow 
V2  cup  cocoa  shells  or  more  to  1  qt  boiling  water  and  boil 
gently  at  least  3  hours,  then  strain  and  serve  hot  with  cream 
and  sugar.  A  little  vanilla  flavor  added  to  cocoa  or  cocoa 
shell  "tea,"  after  removing  from  fire,  is  liked  by  come. — [A. 
V.  N.,  N.  Y. 

Chocolate 

Allow  2  ozs  bitter  chocolate  for  1  qt  boiling  water  and 
scalded  milk — half  and  half  — and  4  level  tablesp  sugar. 
Melt  the  chocolate  and  sugar  in  a  very  little  hot  water,  stir 
smooth,  then  gradually  add  the  rest  of  the  boiling  water  and 
boil  5  minutes,  after  which  add  the  scalded  milk  and  boil 
from  3  to  5  minutes  longer,  stirring  to  prevent  boiling  over 
and  a  skin  from  forming  on  the  top. —  [A.  V.  M.,  N.  Y. 

Quick  Lemonade 

Melt  1  lb  sugar  with  enough  water  to  prevent  burning,  and 
boil  till  it  spins  a  thread,  then  add  tho  juice  of  1  doz  lemons, 
and  the  thin  yellow  rind  of  3  or  4  lemons.  Let  the  mixture 
heat  thoroughly,  but  do  not  allow  it  to  coma  to  a  boil.  When 
cool,  bottle  and  seal.  Use  1  tablesp  for  each  glass  of  lemon- 
ade. Candy  or  dry  the  rest  of  the  lemon  rinds.  Nice  for 
seasoning. —  [Mrs.  E.  W.  A.,  Minn. 

Lemonade  and  Orangeade 

Make  a  syrup  by  boiling  together  sugar  and  water,  and  whea 
cool  use  this  to  sweeten.  A  very,  very  little  of  the  thin  yellow 
rind  of  the  fruit  may  be  cooked  in  the  syrup.  Allow  juice  o£ 
1  lemon  or  orange  for  1  glass  water,  (or  both  mixed — half 
and  half)  sweeten  with  the  sugar  syrup,  chill  with  ice,  and 
serve  at  once. —  [A.  G.,  Mass. 


130  THE   ORANGE  JUDD   COOK  BOOK 


Fruit  Shrub 

To  1  qt  mashed,  ripe  fruit  add  1  qt  water,  2  ozs  tartaric 
acid,  and  let  stand  24  hours,  then  strain,  and  to  each  pt  liquid 
add  1  pt  sugar  Stir  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved,  then  put  ia 
bottles  and  let  stand  2  days  before  corking  and  sealing. —  [E. 
W.  L.,  W.  Va. 

Currant,  Raspberry  or  Strawberry  Shrub 

Pick  and  wash  6  qts  of  the  fruit,  put  in  a  jar,  cover  with 
3  pts  good  cider  vinegar,  let  stand  10  hours,  then  bring  to  the 
jBcalding  point,  strain,  and  to  each  pt  juice  add  1  lb  sugar  and 
boil  15  minutes.  Pour  into  bottles,  cork  tightly  and  seal. 
This  is  an  excellent  hot  weather  beverage.  Use  %  cup  syrup 
for  1  pt  water. — IMrs.  E.  M.  H.,  Wis. 

Pineapple    Shrub 

Pare  1  large,  ripe  pineapple,  cut  out  the  "eyes,"  chop  fine, 
sweeten  to  taste,  add  1  gal  water,  and  let  stand  3  days  in  a 
temperature  of  about  9  0  degrees,  or  until  it  begins  to  ferment. 
Bottle,  cork  tightly,  and  seal  securely.  Allow  2  tablesp  of  this 
shrub  for  1  glass  water. —  [M.  B.,  111. 

Fruit  Punch 

the  juice  of  1  doz  oranges  and  %  doz  lemons,  add  1 
pineapple  (fresh,  grated,  or  canned),  2  ripe  bananas,  cut  fine, 
and  any  other  juicy  fruit  or  berry  in  season.  Add  water  and 
ice,  and  sweeten  to  taste. —  [Mrs.  F.  S.  T.,  Ct. 

Tea    Punch 

To  1  qt  cold  tea  (not  strong),  add  the  juice  of  2  lemons 
and  1  orange,  2  scant  cups  sugar,  and  1  pt  seltzer  or  soda 
water.  Cool  with  ice.  A  few  raspberries,  strawberries  or  chips 
of  pineapple  may  be  added,  if  liked. —  [Mrs.  D.  W.  B.,  N.  Y. 

HaiTest  Punch 

On  very  hot  days,  when  the  harvest  hands  are  working  in 
the  field,  and  the  water  jug  is  sent  in  to  be  replenished,  mix 
with  the  water,  V2  cup  each  sugar  and  cider  vinegar  and  1 
level  tablesp  ginger.  The  harvesters  will  surely  appreciate 
this. —  [No  Name. 

Blackberry  and  Blueberry  Cordials 

Simmer  blackberries  with  a  very  little  water  until  they  are 
soft,  then  strain,  and  to  each  pt  juice  add  1  lb  sugar,   V2   oz 


THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK        131 


cinnamon,  scant  %  oz  mace,  and  2  teasp  extracts  of  cloves. 
Boil  15  to  20  minutes,  stirring  often,  then  cool,  bottle,  cork 
and  seal. — [Mrs.  F.  S.  T.,  Ct. 

To  2  qts  blueberries  add  2  cups  sugar,  1  cup  water,  and  boil 
.10  minutes,  then  strain,  and  when  cold,  bottle,  cork  and  seal. — s 
[Mrs.  L.  S.,  Minn. 

To  Keep  Cider 

Make  the  cider  of  nice,  sound  apples,  and  while  still  fresh, 
strain,  and  heat,  skimming  the  scum  as  it  rises,  but  do  not 
boil.  Pill  the  hot  cider  into  glass  fruit  jars,  and  seal  air 
tight.  This  will  come  in  handy  in  summer  time  for  the  harvest 
hands. —  [No  Name. 

Canned    Grape   Juice 

Pick  over  and  wash  some  nice  ripe  grapes,  add  a  very  little 
water  and  cook  as  for  jelly.  When  soft,  strain  through  a  jelly 
bag,  but  do  not  squeeze  the  bag,  as  this  would  cloud  the 
liquid.  To  each  pt  strained  juice  add  1  cup  sugar,  boil  2  or  3 
minutes,  skim,  bottle,  cork,  and  seal  while  hot.  When  wanted 
for  use,  mix  with  an  equal  amount  of  water.  The  sugar  may 
be  omitted,  if  desired — many  dyspeptics  are  ordered  to  drink 
unsweetened  grape  juice.  Must  be  sealed  in  air-tight  jars. — ^ 
[K.  A.  D.,  N.  D. 

Syrups 

Use  only  the  best  sugar  and  soft,  filtered  water,  if  possible, 
as  this  will  save  the  trouble  of  clarification,  which  is  necessary 
when  inferior  ingredients  are  used.  Pour  the  water  cold  over 
the  sugar,  and  let  it  slowly  melt.  Boil  by  gentle  heat,  and 
then  keep  simmering  until  it  syrups.  Buy  the  essence  and 
tincture  from  a  reliable  druggist. 

To  make  plain  syrup,  add  to  6  lbs  sugar  14  gal  water.  Boil 
until   thoroughly    dissolved    and   syrupy,   and   then   filter. 

To  make  clove  syrup  add  to  1  lb  plain  syrup  30  drops 
quintessence  of  cloves.  Bottle  and  shake  well  before  using. 
To  make  orange  syrup  add  to  1  lb  plain  syrup  2  ozs  tincture 
of  orange  peel.  For  pineapple  syrup  add  to  1  gal  plain 
syrup  V2  oz  tartaric  acid  and  1  oz  essence  of  pineapple.  For 
raspberry  syrup  add  to  1  gal  plain  syrup  %  oz  tincture  of 
tartaric  acid  and  V2  oz  essence  of  raspberry.  For  sarsaparilla 
syrup,  add  to  1  gal  plain  syrup  10  drops  oil  of  anise,  20  drops 
oil  of  wintergreen,  and  20  drops  oil  of  sarsaparilla.  To  make 
nectar  add  to  1  lb  plain  syrup  30  drops  essence  of  nectar. 

To  make  rose  syrup  allow  for  1  lb  fresh  rose  petals  1  qt 
clear  water  and  4  lbs  granulated  sugar.  Put  water  in  porcelain^ 


132  THE   ORANGE   JUDD   COOK  BOOK 


lined  kettle,  bring  to  boiling  point,  add  rose  petals,  cover, 
take  from  fire,  and  stand  away  over  night.  Next  morning 
strain  through  a  fine  cloth,  add  the  sugar,  and  boil  until 
sugar  is  entirely  dissolved  and  "syrupy."  Fill  into  clean 
bottles,  press  in  good,  clean  corks  that  have  been  soaking  in 
boiling  water,  to  which  a  pinch  of  baking  soda  was  added,  and 
dip  the  tops  of  bottles  (cork  and  all)  into  melted  wax  or  paraf- 
fine.  Keep  in  a  cool  place.  Fine  rose  flavor  for  cakes,  ice 
creams,  ices,  icing,  drinks,  candies,  etc. —  [A.  G.,  Mass. 

Imitation  Maple  Syrup 

Boil  1  doz  clean  corn  cobs  (red  are  best),  from  1  to  2  hours, 
tn  enough  water  to  leave  nearly  1  pt  liquid,  when  done,  then 
strain,  add  2  lbs  brown  sugar,  and  boil  until  as  thick  as 
desired.  This  syrup  has  a  fine  flavor,  very  much  like  maple 
syrup. — [Mrs.  J.  L.  R.,  O. 

Silver  Drip  Syrup 

To  3  cups  sugar  add  1  cup  water  and  %  teasp  purifier,  and 
boil  15  minutes,  then  skim  or  strain.  Nice  to  ser\e  with  warm 
cakes.  The  purifier  is  made  as  follows:  Mix  and  sift  together 
three  times  1  teasp  each  flour,  sugar,  and  powdered  alum.  This 
mixture  can  be  kept  on  hand  and  used  as  needed. —  [Mrs.  C. 
H.  Y.,  Mo. 

Soda  Syrup 

To  2  lbs  sugar  add  2  ozs  tartaric  acid  and  1^^  qts  boiling 
water.  Stir  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved,  and  let  cool,  then 
add  1  oz  of  any  preferred  flavoring,  and  the  beaten  whites  of 
3  eggs.  Put  2  tablesp  of  this  syrup  in  a  glass  half  full  cold 
water,  and  stir  in  scant  i/4  teasp  soda. —  [Mrs.  E.  T.,  Vt. 

Cherry   Syrup 

Boil  ripe  cherries  with  a  very  little  water,  and  when  soft, 
strain  through  a  jelly  bag.  For  each  qt  juice  allow  3  lbs  sugar. 
Put  the  sugar  on  with  freshly  boiled  water,  allowing  1  pt 
water  for  every  3  lbs  sugar.  Stir  until  dissolved,  then  add 
the  cherry  juice,  bring  to  a  boil,  skim,  and  boil  rapidly  for 
1  or  2  minutes.  Bottle,  cork  and  seal.  This  syrup  is  delicious 
with  hot  cakes,  or  for  flavoring  puddings,  sauces,  ice  cream, 
etc. —  [Mrs.  O.  M,  P.,  N.  H. 

Toast    Water 

Cut  slices  of  stale  bread  V4,  inch  thick,  put  in  slow  oven 
to  crisp,  and  w^hen  a  golden  brown,  break  in  pieces,  add  an 
equal  amount  boiling  water,  let  stand  1  hour,  then  strain, 
and  serve  hot  or  cold  with  or  without  sugar. — [J.  H. 


Doughnuts,  Griddle  Qakes  and  Fritters 

HERE  are  all  kinds  of  doughnuts — good, 
bad,  and  indifferent.  When  they  are  not  as 
good  as  they  should  be,  it  rests  with  the 
cook,  who  has  probably  failed  to  inform 
herself  on  all  the  fine  points  of  doughnut 
manufacture.  The  following  hints  may 
be  found  useful  in  following  the  various  reci- 
pes presented  herewith.  The  dough  should  be  as  soft  as 
possible,  and  not  handled  any  more  than  is  absolutely  neces- 
sary. If  too  much  baking  powder  is  used  the  doughnuts 
will  soak  up  fat,  and  if  the  dough  is  too  stiff  the  fried  cakes 
will  be  tough.  Since  they  are  fried  in  grease  it  is  not 
advisable  to  use  much  shortening  in  the  doughnuts.  Equal 
parts  of  clarified  lard  and  suet  are  the  best  to  fry  them 
in.  The  kettle  should  not  be  too  small  and  there  should 
be  plenty  of  the  fat,  which  should  be  hot.  To  keep  the  fat 
clear  and  to  keep  it  from  over-heating,  some  cooks  drop  in 
a  piece  of  raw  potato.  It  is  well  to  test  with  a  sample 
doughnut,  to  see  if  the  dough  is  of  the  right  consistency 
and  the  fat  at  the  proper  degree  of  heat.  When  the 
doughnut  is  dropped  into  the  fat  it  should  come  to  the  top 
almost  immediately,  and  when  it  is  brown  on  one  side  it 
should  be  turned  to  brown  on  the  other  side.  When  the 
doughnuts  are  lifted  from  the  fat  they  should  be  laid  out 
on  brown  paper,  to  absorb  the  superfluous  fat.  It  is  best 
not  to  fry  more  than  five  or  six  doughnuts  at  a  time,  as  drop- 
ping in  too  many  fresh  doughnuts  would  cool  the  fat 
too  rapidly.  A  little  practice  and  careful  following  of 
directions  should  result  in  a  product  that  is  both  whole- 
some and  palatable. 

Raised  Doughnnts  I 

Scald  2  cups  sweet  milk,  and  when  partly  cool  add  2  cups 
sugar,  1  cup  lard,  2  well-beaten  eggs,  1  cup  yeast,  a  little 
grated  nutmeg  and  flour  to  mix  in  a  loaf.    Let  rise  over  night, 

•  133 


134        THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK 


and  in  the  morning  roll  out  1  incli  thick.  Cut  with  cookie  or 
biscuit  cutter.  Let  stand  until  light,  and  then  fry  in  hot  fat. 
—  [Mrs.  F.  F.  B.,  O. 

Raised  Doughiwits  n 

Boil  and  mash  2  medium  sized  potatoes,  stir  them  into  1  pt 
boiling  milk,  add  a  little  salt,  and  %  cup  sugar.  Set  aside 
until  lukewarm,  then  add  2  well-beaten  eggs,  and  %  yeast  cake 
dissolved  in  a  little  warm  water.  Let  this  rise  until  light,  then 
add  V2  cup  butter,  and  flour  to  moiiid.  Let  rise  once  more  in  a 
warm  place  (takes  about  4  hours),  and  then  roll  and  cut  about 
y2  inch  thick.  Let  them  rise  again,  and  fry  in  hot  lard.  When 
cooled,  roll  in  powdered  sugar. —  [M.  B.,  111. 

Raised  Doughnuts  HI 

To  1  pt  light  bread  sponge  add  1  cup  sugar,  %  cup  melted 
lard,  1  well-beaten  egg,  1  teasp  cinnamon,  allspice  and  cloves 
mixed,  and  1  teasp  soda  dissolved  in  3  tablesp  warm  water. 
Mix  stiff  with  flour,  and  let  rise  one  hour,  then  roll  and  cut 
into  cakes,  and  let  these  rise  about  2  0  minutes.  Fry  in  hot 
lard.  It  takes  longer  to  fry  raised  doughnuts  than  those  made 
with  baking  powder. —  [Mrs.  S.  N.,  Wash. 

Farmer's  Doughnuts  I 

Pour  1  pt  boiling  hot  sweet  milk  over  1  lb  sifted  flour,  stir- 
ring vigorously,  then  break  in  7  eggs,  one  at  a  time,  cut  off  lit- 
tle pieces  with  a  tablespoon  and  drop  into  hot  lard.  If  care- 
fully cut  they  will  be  nearly  round.  Turn  until  they  are  evenly 
brown.  When  cool  roll  in  powdered  sugar,  or  eat  with  molas- 
ses.—  [B.  R.  H.,  Pa. 

Farmer's  Doughnuts  n 

To  1  cup  sugar  add  1  well-beaten  egg,  and  1  cup  buttermilk 
or  sour  milk,  to  which  add  2  teasp  thick  sour  cream,  1  level 
teasp  soda,  and  salt  and  nutmeg  to  taste.  Mix  with  flour  to 
a  soft  dough. — [Mrs.  W.  J.  B.,  Me. 

Molasses  Doughnuts  (No  Eggs) 

To  Vz  cup  molasses  add  Vz  cup  sugar,  1  cup  sour  milk  or  but- 
termilk, in  which  dissolve  1  teasp  soda,  1  tablesp  melted  lard, 
a  little  salt  and  %  teasp  ginger,  with  flour  enough  to  make  a 
4ough  of  the  proper  consistency. — [Mrs.  L.  M.  A.,  Me. 


THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK        135 

Cocoa  Doughnuts 

To  1  cup  sugar  add  1  tablesp  butter,  1  well-beaten  egg,  a  lit- 
tle salt,  1  cup  sour  milk  in  which  dissolve  V2  teasp  soda,  1,  2  or 
3  tablesp  powdered  cocoa,  and  flour  enough  to  make  a  soft 
dough.  The  amount  of  cocoa  should  be  regulated  to  taste. — 
[Mrs.  N.  F.,  Mass. 

Potato  Fried  Cakes  I 

To  6  boiled  potatoes,  each  about  the  size  of  an  egg,  mashed 
while  hot,  add  2  cups  sugar,  1  tablesp  butter,  3  well-beaten 
eggs,  salt,  cinnamon  and  nutmeg  to  taste,  1  cup  milk,  and  about 
6  cups  flour  sifted  with  6  teasp  baking  powder. —  [Mrs.  M.  W. 
H.,  Mich. 

Potato  Fried  Cakes  BE 

To  1  cup  milk  add  1  cup  sugar,  1  cup  mashed  potatoes,  % 
cup  thick  sweet  cream,  yolks  of  3  eggs,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  3 
teasp  baking  powder  sifted  with  flour  enough  to  make  a  dough 
of  the  proper  consistency.  Add  the  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs 
just  before  adding  the  flour.  Mix  with  the  hands  until  smooth 
and  velvety,  roll  out  about  %  inch  thick  and  6  inches  wide, 
then  with  a  sharp  knife  begin  at  the  end  and  cut  strips  %  inch 
wide.  Bring  the  ends  of  each  strip  together  and  pinch.  In  this 
way  the  last  cake  will  be  as  good  as  the  first,  for  no  more  flour 
will  have  to  be  kneaded  in.  Twist  the  doughnuts  and  fry  them 
in  deep  hot  fat  until  a  delicate  brown,  and  drain  on  brown 
paper.  When  made  with  potatoes,  doughnuts  will  keep  moist 
for  a  week  or  more. —  [Mrs.  L.  M.  D.,  Mich. 

Fried  Cakes  (No  Eggs) 

Dissolve  1  level  teasp  soda  in  1  cup  sour  milk,  add  1  cup 
sugar,  1  tablesp  shortening,  a  little  salt  and  cinnamon  or  nut- 
meg and  flour  enough  to  make  a  soft  dough  that  will  roll  out 
easily. —  [Miss  A.  H.  B.,  Mich. 

Old-Fashioned  Twisters 

To  1  cup  buttermilk  add  1  cup  sugar,  2  or  3  well-beaten 
eggs,  1  level  teasp  soda  dissolved  in  a  little  warm  water,  4 
tablesp  melted  lard,  nutmeg  to  taste,  and  flour  to  make  a  dough 
which  can  be  rolled  thin.  Cut  in  inch  wide  strips,  twist  and 
pinch  the  ends  together,  and  fry  in  hot  lard. —  [Mrs.  J.  N.  J., 
Kan. 

PufP  BaUs 

Beat  3  eggs  light,  add  1  cup  sugar,  1  pt  milk,  some  salt  and 
nutmeg,  and  suflixjient  flour  sifted  with  2  teasp  baking  powder 


136  THE  ORANGE  JUDD   COOK  BOOK 


to  make  a  dough  in  which  a  spoon  can  stand  up.  Drop  by 
small  spoonsful  into  hot  fat.  Dip  the  spoon  into  the  hot  fat 
every  time. — [H.  M.  W.,  Mass. 

Potato  Puffs 

To  %  cup  cold  mashed  potatoes  add  Vz  cup  rich  milk,  1  well- 
heaten  egg,  and  1  teasp  baking  powder  sifted  with  flour  enough 
to  make  a  soft  dough.  Roll  about  Vz  inch  thick,  cut  in  strips 
or  any  desired  shape,  and  fry  in  hot  fat.  These  are  good  served 
warm  with  maple  syrup,  jelly  or  sugar. — [Mrs.  R.  J.  S.,  Neb. 

Commeal  Trifles 

To  1  cup  cornmeal  add  1  cup  flour,  Vz  teasp  salt,  2  teasp 
baking  powder,  and  water  enough  to  make  a  very  stiff  batter. 
Drop  by  spoonsful  into  deep,  hot  fat,  and  serve  warm  with 
syrup. — [Mrs.  D.  L.  P.,  Cuba. 

Economical  Pancakes 

Try  this  recipe  when  you  run  short  of  bread  for  breakfast, 
and  the  price  of  eggs  is  soaring  up.  To  1  qt  white  flour  add  1 
teasp  salt,  and  2^/^  cups  buttermilk  in  which  dissolve  1  teasp 
soda.  Pour  in  the  buttermilk  a  little  at  a  time,  and  beat 
smooth  and  free  from  lumps.  Fry  with  plenty  of  nice  fresh 
lard  and  tilt  the  frying  pan  or  griddle  so  the  lard  can  run 
around  the  cakes  while  they  are  frying,  and  form  a  nice  crisp 
edge  on  them.  Drop  about  2  tablesp  of  the  batter  in  the  pan 
for  each  cake.  These  are  fine  served  with  butter  and  syrup  or 
honey. —  [Mrs.  L.  S.,  Ind. 

Bread  Pancakes 

Soak  2  cups  stale  bread  over  night  in  1  cup  hot  milk.  Next 
morning  put  this  through  a  sieve  to  mash  all  lumps,  then  add  1 
heaping  teasp  sugar,  1  level  teasp  salt,  2  tablesp  melted  butter, 
2  well-beaten  eggs  and  1  cup  flour.  Lastly  add  1  cup  sour 
milk  in  which  dissolve  1  teasp  soda.  Bake  on  a  hot  griddle. 
These  are  extra  fine. — [E.  L.  McG.,  Mich. 

Bread  Pancakes   (No  Eggs) 

To  2  cups  stale  bread  soaked  until  soft  add  1  cup  sour  milk, 
%  cup  sugar,  1  teasp  soda  and  salt  to  taste.  Then  stir  in  flour 
enough  to  make  a  soft  batter. — [Mrs.  L.  S.,  Minn. 

Commeal  Pancakes 

Sift  together  1  pt  yellow  cornmeal,  1  pt  flour,  1  teasp  salt,  1 
teasp  soda  and  2  tablesp  sugar,  then  add  enough  sour  cream  or 
good  rich  buttermilk  to  make  a  thin  batter.  Bake  at  once  on 
hot  griddles. —  [Mrs.  G.  M.  N.,  N.  Y. 


THE   ORANGE  JUDD   COOK  BOOK  137 

Rye  Pancakes 

To  1  well-beaten  egg  add  2  tablesp  sugar,  2  tablesp  molasses, 
%teasp  soda  dissolved  in  V2  cup  sour  milk,  and  equal  parts 
flour  and  rye  meal  to  make  a  stiff  batter.  Drop  by  small  spoons- 
ful into  deep,  hot  fat. —  [J.  M.  S.,  N.  H. 

Buttermilk  Pancakes 

To  1  qt  buttermilk  add  1  teasp  soda,  a  little  salt,  2  well- 
beaten  eggs,  and  either  graham,  buckwheat  or  wheat  flour 
enough  to  make  a  batter  of  the  proper  consistency  for  pancakes. 
—  [Mrs.  J.  W.  H.,  Mich. 

Whole  Wheat  Pancakes 

To  1  cup  white  flour  add  1  cup  whole  wheat  flour,  a  little 
salt,  and  1  teasp  soda  dissolved  in  2  cups  buttermilk.  Bake 
on  hot  griddle. —  [Mrs.  V.  A.  H.,  N.  D. 

Raw  Potato  Pancakes  I 

Pare  and  grate  6  large  potatoes,  add  2  well-beaten  eggs,  2 
cups  milk,  some  pepper  and  salt,  1  tablesp  sugar,  and  1  cup 
flour  sifted  with  1  teasp  baking  powder.  Drop  this  soft  batter 
by  the  spoonsful  on  a  hot,  well  greased  griddle,  as  for  pancakes. 
Serve  hot,  with  butter.  If  desired  sweet  potatoes  may  be  used 
in  place  of  the  Irish  potatoes. —  [Mrs.  W.  K.,  la. 

Raw  Potato  Pancakes  II 

Pare  and  grate  6  large  potatoes,  drain  off  all  the  water,  add 
to  the  potatoes  1  scant  cup  sour  milk  with  ^  teasp  soda  and 
1  teasp  salt.  Then  stir  in  2  well-beaten  eggs  and  flour  enough 
to  make  a  thin  batter.  The  amount  of  fl.our  varies  according 
to  the  size  of  potatoes — usually  1  cup  is  sufficient.  Pry  like 
any  other  pancakes  in  hot  fat — equal  parts  of  butter  and  suet 
or  lard,  being  best.  Have  the  pancakes  small,  and  serve  them 
piping  hot. —  [Mrs.  F.  H.,  Mo. 

Boiled  Potato  Pancakes 

Boil  6  medium  sized  potatoes  in  salted  water,  and  when  done 
mash  them,  and  set  aside  to  cool,  after  which  add  3  well-beaten 
eggs,  1  qt  milk  and  flour  enough  to  make  a  thin  pancake  bat- 
ter, sifted  with  2  teasp  baking  powder.  Fry  a  golden  brown  on 
both  sides  and  serve  hot. — [Mrs.  R.  N.  P.,  N.  Y. 

Potato  and  Onion  Pancakes 

Grate  6  or  8  medium  sized  potatoes,  and  1  medium  sized 
onion,  then  add  yolks  of  4  eggs,  a  little    salt  and    1    heaping 


138  THE   ORANGE  JUDD   COOK  BOOK 


tablesp  flour.  Mix  well,  and  then  add  the  beaten  whites  of  4 
eggs.  Have  the  griddle  very  hot  and  bake  as  batter  cakes. 
Serve  hot  with  butter. — [W.  H.  C,  Tex. 

Banana  Pancakes 

Peel  5  bananas,  cut  up  fine,  add  3  well-beaten  eggs,  2  tablesp 
sugar,  3  tablesp  thick  sv/eet  cream,  %  cup  milk  and  V2  teasp 
baking  powder  sifted  with  flour  enough  to  make  a  batter  of  the 
proper  consistency.     Fry  in  hot  lard. —  [Mrs.  G.  McM.,  Cal. 

Tomato  Pancakes 

To  2  cups  boiled  and  mashed  ripe  tomatoes  add  1  cup  hot 
water,  1  teasp  soda  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Then  stir  in 
flour  enough  to  make  a  soft  batter,  and  fry  on  hot  and  well 
greased  griddles. —  [Mrs.  L.  S.,  Minn 

Raised  Buckwheat  Griddlecakes  I 

To  make  the  yeast,  boil  until  soft  3  or  4  medium  sized  pota- 
toes, mash,  add  1  pt  flour,  1  tablesp  sugar,  1  teasp  salt,  and  a 
pinch  of  ginger.  Pour  some  boiling  water  over  these  ingredi- 
ents, stir  well,  and  when  cool  add  1  cake  compressed  yeast  dis- 
solved in  a  little  warm  water,  or  '^^  cup  hop  yeast.  Set  away 
in  a  warm  place  to  rise. 

For  the  cakes  use  1  qt  warm  water,  %  cup  sweet  milk,  salt 
to  taste,  and  buckwheat  flour  to  make  a  batter  of  the  proper 
consistency.  Then  add  V2  cup  of  the  yeast  prepared  as  above, 
beat  well,  and  set  in  a  warm  place  until  light.  This  recipe  will 
make  delicious  cakes,  and  the  yeast  will  keep  sweet  3  or  4  days 
in  a  cool  place.  Yeast  made  as  above  is  also  satisfactory  for 
bread. — [Miss  A.  E.  H.,  Pa. 

Raised  Buckwheat  Griddlecakes  II 

Into  1  pt  lukewarm  water  stir  %  lb  buckwheat  flour,  a  pinch 
salt  and  2  ozs  yeast  or  1  cup  liquid  yeast.  Set  this  over  night 
and  in  the  morning  add  1  teasp  soda,  %  cup  flour  and  1  tablesp 
molasses.  One  or  2  eggs  added  to  this  batter  will  make  it  hold 
together  nicely,  but  they  can  safely  be  omitted.  Bake  on  hot 
griddle. —  [M.  S.,  Neb. 


Raw  potato  pancakes  are  best  when  served  immediately  after 
removing  from  frying  pan.  Do  not  attempt  to  fry  a  large  batch 
of  these  pancakes  at  once,  but  send  to  the  table  just  as  soon 
as  a  panful  is  fried.  When  eaten  fresh  and  hot,  v/ith  cran- 
berry sauce  as  a  side  dish,  they  are  most  delicious,  but  when 
allowed  to  cool,  they  become  heavy  and  soggy. — [A.  G.,  Mass, 


THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK        139 

Griddle  Cakes  (No  Eggs) 

To  1  qt  milk  add  1  tablesp  lard,  and  1  tablesp  baking  powder 
and  some  salt  mixed  with  flour  to  make  a  rather  thin  batter. 
Bake  on  very  hot  griddle. —  [Mrs.  G.  S.,  Neb. 

Rice  Griddlecakes 

Boil  %  cup  rice  until  soft,  and  when  cool  thin  with  milk  to 
the  consistency  of  batter  for  buckwheat  cakes.  Then  stir  in  1 
well-beaten  egg,  about  a  handful  flour  and  salt  to  taste.  These 
will  require  to  bake  longer  than  other  griddle  cakes,  before 
turning.  If  liked,  add  a  little  sugar  to  the  batter. — [Mrs.  E. 
W.,  N.  Y. 

Hominy  Griddlecakes 

To  1  pt  warm  boiled  hominy  add  1  pt  milk  or  water  and  1 
pt  flour.  Lastly  beat  2  or  3  eggs  and  stir  into  the  batter  with  a 
little  salt.  Fry  like  any  other  griddlecakes.  These  are  deli- 
cious.—  [N.  P.,  N.  H. 

Cornmeai  Griddlecakes 

Mix  1  pt  cornmeai  with  1  pt  wheat  flour,  add  1  teasp  salt,  2 
level  teasp  cream  tartar,  2  well-beaten  eggs,  and  enough  milk 
to  make  a  soft  batter.  Next  add  1  tablesp  melted  butter  and 
1  level  teasp  soda  dissolved  in  1  tablesp  warm  water.  Fry  a 
golden  brown  on  hot  griddle.  Serve  with  butter  and  maple 
syrup. — [Mrs.  C.  B.,  Pa. 

Raised  Cornmeai  Griddlecakes 

Fill  a  quart  measure  %  full  of  cornmeai,  then  fill  up  to  the 
top  with  white  flour,  mix  thoroughly,  and  then  pour  in  2  cups 
lukewarm  milk.  Stir  well,  then  add  1  teasp  melted  butter,  1 
teasp  salt,  2  well-beaten  eggs,  %  cup  fresh  yeast  or  quarter 
cake  compressed  yeast  dissolved  in  a  little  warm  water.  Let 
rise  and  bake  on  a  hot  griddle. — [S.  E.  W.,  O. 

Sweet  Com  Griddlecakes 

To  1  beaten  egg  add  1  small  cup  milk,  the  grains  from  6  ears 
sweet  com,  1  teasp  sugar,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and  flour 
enough  to  make  a  batter  of  the  proper  consistency,  sifted  with 
^  teasp  soda  and  1  teasp  cream  tartar.  Fry  in  deep  fat.' — 
[Mrs.  M.  J.  S.,  N.  H. 

Green  Peas  Griddlecakes 

Press  1  pt  cooked  green  peas  through  a  sieve  and  add  1  cup 
hot  milk,  1  teasp.  sugar,  V2  teasp  salt,  1  teasp  butter,  and  when 


140  THE   ORANGE   JUDD   COOK  BOOK 

cold  add  2  well-beaten  eggs,  and  about  %  cup  flour  sifted  with 
2  rounding  teasp  baking  powder.  Bake  on  hot  griddle. — [W. 
C.  B.,  N.  H 

North  Carolina  Corn  Pone 

To  1  qt  white  cornmeal  add  1  teasp  salt  and  %  teasp  soda. 
Stir  this  up  with  enough  water  so  that  the  dough  can  be  rolled 
around  in  the  pan  from  side  to  side  without  sticking.  This  is  the 
great  secret  of  making  corn  pones,  etc.,  edible  without  the  use 
of  eggs  and  milk.  Have  the  skillet  hot,  sprinkle  a  little  corn- 
meal  in  it,  with  the  hands  form  small  cakes  of  the  dough  about 
as  large  as  biscuits,  but  oblong,  leaving  the  impress  of  the  four 
fingers  on  the  upper  side.  When  nicely  brown  on  one  side  turn 
and  brown  on  the  other  side. —  [Mrs.  H.  L.,  Va. 

Plain  Batter  Fritters 

To  3  well-beaten  eggs  add  1%  cups  milk,  a  pinch  of  salt, 
and  3  teasp  baking  powder  sifted  with  flour  enough  to  make 
a  stiff  batter.  Fry  in  hot  lard,  like  doughnuts. —  [Mrs.  H.  D. 
T.,  Minn. 

Plain  Bread  Fritters 

Soak  1^  cups  stale  bread  crumbs  in  1  cup  sweet  milk.  Let 
this  stand  a  while  and  then  add  another  cup  sweet  milk,  2  well- 
beaten  eggs,  a  little  salt,  and  1  heaping  teasp  baking  powder 
mixed  with  1  small  cup  flour.  Drop  by  tablespoonsful  into  a 
pan  with  hot  lard  and  butter,  and  fry  brown  on  both  sides. — > 
[Mrs.  M.  J.  L.,  Mich. 

Raised  Bread  Fritters 

Cut  pieces  about  the  size  of  a  small  egg  from  light  bread 
dough,  and  drop  into  hot  lard.  The  lard  must  be  hot  enough 
to  brown  a  slice  of  raw  potato.  It  is  well  to  keep  a  few  pieces 
potato  in  the  kettle.  Pry  the  fritters  a  light  brown,  and  serve 
warm  with  syrup.  These  will  not  absorb  grease. — [Mrs.  W.  W. 
P.,  Okla. 

Fried  Corn  Fritters 

To  1  can  corn  or  %  doz  ears  green  corn,  cut  fine,  add  3  ot 
4  well-beaten  eggs,  1  level  teasp  salt,  and  flour  enough  to  make 
a  stiff  batter  that  can  be  easily  dropped  from  the  spoon.  Drop 
by  spoonsful  into  hot  lard,  and  fry  like  doughnuts. — [S.  F.  R., 
N.  J. 


THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK        141 


Cornmeal  Fritters 

To  2  cups  sour  milk  add  1  teasp  soda,  ^  teasp  salt,  1  well- 
beaten  egg  and  cornmeal  enough  to  make  a  moderately  thick 
batter.  Drop  by  tablespoonsful  into  a  hot  skillet,  well  greased 
with  lard. — [Mrs.  W.  T.  P.,  Mo. 

Sour  Milk  Fritters 

Dissolve  1  teasp  soda  in  2  cups  sour  milk,  add  the  beaten 
yolks  of  2  eggs,  2  cups  flour,  and  lastly  the  well-beaten  whites 
of  2  eggs.  Fry  in  hot  lard  or  butter,  and  serve  with  syrup  or 
any  preferred  sauce. —  [A.  E.  H.,  Wash. 

Oatmeal  Fritters 

To  1  cup  cooked  and  cold  oatmeal,  add  1  well-beaten  ezz,  2 
or  3  tablesp  milk,  and  just  enough  flour  to  bind  together.  Sea- 
son to  taste,  and  fry  in  hot  lard.  "Watch  them  closely,  as  they 
burn  easily.  This  is  a  nice  way  to  use  left-over  oatmeal  from 
breakfast  by  serving  it  as  fritters  for  supper. — [R.  C.  R.,  Pa. 

Apple  Fritters 

Heat  1  cup  sweet  milk,  and  add  slowly  to  the  beaten  yolks 
of  2  eggs,  mixed  with  1  teasp  sugar  and  a  little  salt,  then  add 
2  cups  flour  sifted  with  1  teasp  baking  powder,  and  the  beaten 
whites  of  2  eggs.  Lastly  stir  in  some  sour  apples  sliced  or 
chopped  fine,  and  drop  by  spoonsful  into  hot  fat.  Fry  a  light 
brown.  Serve  with  cream  and  sugar  or  any  preferred  sauce. 
Grate  some  nutmeg  into  the  batter  if  that  flavor  is  liked. 
Peach  and  pineapple  fritters  can  be  made  by  this  same  recipe. 
—  [Mrs.  D.  A.  P.,  Pa. 

Rhubarb  or  Green  Apple  Fritters 

To  2  well-beaten  eggs  add  1  cup  sour  milk  in  which  dissolve 
1  level  teasp  soda,  and  a  little  salt.  Then  add  flour  enough  to 
make  a  not  too  thick  batter.  Lastly  stir  in  1  pt  raw  sliced 
rhubarb  or  green  cooking  apples.  Fry  in  plenty  of  hot  fat. 
and  serve  hot  with  syrup. —  [B.  F.,  la. 

Mock  Oyster  Fritters 

To  2  cups  sweet  corn,  chopped  fine,  add  2  well-beaten  eggs, 
V2  cup  flour  and  a  little  salt  and  pepper.  Fry  the  size  of  oysters 
on  a  hot,  buttered  griddle.  These  are  very  fine. —  [Mrs.  E.  S. 
W..  N.  Y. 


142        THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK 


Oyster  Fritters 

Drain  all  the  liquor  from  1  qt  oj^sters,  and  dry  them  on  a 
towel.  Make  a  batter  of  1  pt  flour  sifted  with  2  teasp  baking 
powder  and  a  little  salt,  1  cup  milk  and  2  well-beaten  eggs. 
Have  ready  plenty  hot  fat,  as  for  frying  doughnuts,  and  to 
each  tablesp  batter  add  an  oyster  and  drop  into  the  fat. 
Turn  with  a  fork  and  when  brown  and  crisp  lift  out,  drain  on 
paper,  and  arrange  on  a  hot  platter.  Serve  at  once. — [M.  P., 
N.  H. 

Green  Tomato  Fritters 

Slice  green  tomatoes,  sprinkle  with  salt,  and  let  stand  % 
hour.  Make  a  batter  6f  1  egg,  1  cup  milk  and  1  cup  flour  sifted 
With  1  teasp  baking  powder  and  a  little  salt.  Dip  each  slice  of 
tomato  in  the  batter,  and  fry  in  hot  lard.  Serve  as  a  vegetable, 
with  meat  and  gravy. — [Mrs.  H.  D.,  Va. 

Potato  Fritters 

To  1  cup  mashed  potatoes  add  1  well-beaten  egg,  %  cup 
milk  and  V2  teasp  baking  powder  and  a  little  salt  sifted  with 
flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff  batter.  Drop  by  tablespoonsful 
into  hot  lard,  and  fry  a  delicate  brown.  I  sometimes  use  white 
beans  instead  of  the  potatoes.  This  is  a  good  way  to  use  the 
left-overs. —  [Mrs.  W.  T.  F.,  Mo. 

Parsnip  Fritters 

Wash  the  parsnips  thoroughly  and  cook  in  boiling  salted 
water  until  tender,  then  drain,  plunge  into  cold  water,  and  rub 
off  the  skins,  which  will  come  off  easily.  Mash  the  parsnips, 
season  with  salt,  pepper  and  butter  to  taste,  and  shape  into 
small  flat  cakes.  Roll  in  flour,  and  fry  a  delicate  brown. — [Mrs„ 
W.  K.,  la. 

Salmon  Fritters 

Remove  the  skin  and  bones  from  1  can  salmon,  add  1  cup 
water,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and  enough  flour  sifted  with  1 
teasp  baking  powder  to  make  a  batter  of  the  proper  consistency. 
Fry  in  hot  lard.  These  fritters  are  improved  by  the  addition 
of  1  well-beaten  egg,  in  which  case  a  little  less  water  is  used. — • 
Mrs.  C.  D.  R.,  Ark. 

Batter  Cakes 

To  4  tablesp  cornmeal  add  2  tablesp  flour,  1  teasp  baking 
powder,  %  teasp  salt,  and  water  to  make  a  medium  thick  bat- 
ter. Drop  by  tablespoonsful  on  hot,  well  greased  skillet.  Serve 
with  N  O  molasses. — [Mrs.  H.  L.,  Va. 


Qookies,  Qraekers,  and  Small  Qakes 

O  keep  the  cookie  jar  replenished  keeps 
many  a  mother  and  housewife  busy  and 
often  necessitates  a  baking  every  week,  for 
not  only  the  young  folks  but  "children  of  an 
older  growth"  frequently  manifest  their 
fondness  for  these  wholesome  little  dainties 
by  surreptitious  inroads  on  the  reserve  supply,  much  to  the 
dismay  of  the  indulgent  cook,  who,  however,  apparently 
ignores  these  small  depredations  and  wisely  looks  upon 
them  as  a  tribute  to  her  skill.  Every  one  has  his  or  her 
favorite  cookie,  but  a  little  variety  is  generally  welcomed 
by  all.  If  you  find  among  the  following  recipes  any  that 
are  new  to  you,  but  "sound  good,"  why  not  try  them?  A 
change  will  vary  the  monotony  for  the  cook  and  provide  a 
delightful  surprise  for  the  family. 

Brown  Cookies 

Cream  %  cup  shortening  with  2  cups  brown  sugar,  add  1 
egg,  1  heaping  teasp  soda  dissolved  in  1  cup  sour  cream,  and 
flour  enough  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Bake  in  hot  oven  and 
watch  closely,. so, they  will  not  burn. — [Mrs.  J.  P.,  Minn. 

Chocolate  Cookies 

Cream  ^  cup  butter  or  shortening  with  2  cups  brown  sugar, 
add  2  eggs,  1  scant  cup  grated  chocolate,  melted,  and  flour 
enough  to  roll  very  thin,  sifted  with  1  teasp  baking  powder. — 
[Mrs.  C.  E.  G.,  Ariz. 

Christmas  Cookies 

The  ingredients  required  for  these  cookies  are  1  qt  molasses, 
1  pt  sugar,  I  tablesp  lard,  2  teasp  each  soda,  cinnamon  and 
caraway  seed,  and  1  tablesp  cloves.  Mix  the  soda  and  spices 
in  the  flour.  Boil  the  molasses  and  pour  over  the  flour,  melt 
the  lard  and  put  in  last. — [M.  K.  G.,  la, 

Graham  Cookies 

To  2  cups  sugar  add  2  cups  sour  cream,  5  cups  graham 
flour  sifted,  2  well-beaten  eggs,  2  tablesp  molasses,  2  teasp  each 

143 


144  THE   ORANGE   J€DD   COOK  BOOK 

soda  and  cinnamon,  and  1  teasp  salt.  Have  ready  well  greased 
tins  and  drop  batter  on  it  by  teaspoonsful  about  2  or  3  inches 
apart.  Dip  the  teaspoon  in  cold  water  every  time  before  dip- 
ping it  into  the  batter  again.  Sprinkle  the  cookies  with  sugar 
and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. —  [Mrs.  A.  W.  T.,  Mich. 

Buttermilk  Molasses  Cookies 

Cream  1  cup  lard  with  1  cup  brown  sugar,  add  2  cups 
molasses,  2  even  tablesp  soda  dissolved  in  1  cup  buttermilk,  1 
teasp  each  ginger  and  cinnamon,  sifted  with  flour  enough  to 
make  a  stiff  dough.  Let  stand  over  night,  roll  out,  cut,  spread 
with  sugar,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven.  This  is  a  never-failing 
recipe  which  has  been  used  a  long  time  in  our  family. — [E. 
M.  C,  Mich. 

Coffee  Ginger  Cookies 

Thoroughly  mix  1  cup  shortening  with  2  cups  sugar,  add  1 
cup  molasses  and  3  teasp  soda  dissolved  in  1  cup  hot,  black 
coffee.  Let  cool,  then  add  1  beaten  egg,  2  teasp  vanilla,  a  little 
salt,  and  flour  enough  to  roll,  sifted  with  3  teasp  ginger.  Roll 
soft,  cut,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. —  [Mrs.  G.  A.  S.,  N.  Y. 

Maple  Sugar  Ginger  Cookies 

Cream  1  cup  butter,  add  2  cups  maple  sugar  rolled  fine,  1 
egg,  V2  cup  sour  milk,  in  which  dissolve  1  teasp  soda,  flour 
enough  to  make  a  dough  that  can  be  rolled,  sifted  with  1  teasp 
each  salt  and  ginger,  and  %  teasp  cream  tartar.  Roll  Vz  inch 
thick,  cut  in  squares,  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven. —  [M.  P.,  N.  H. 

Ginger    Cookies    (No    eggs) 

Cream  1  cup  shortening  with  1  cup  sugar,  add  1  cup  molasses, 
1  cup  hot  water,  in  which  dissolve  2  teasp  soda,  and  flour 
enough  to  make  a  stiff  batter,  sifted  with  2  teasp  each  ginger 
and  cinnamon.  Let  this  batter  stand  a  while,  so  as  to  give  the 
flour  a  chance  to  swell,  as  the  hot  water  takes  the  place  of  eggs. 
Use  no  more  flour  than  necessary  to  form  a  soft  dough  for 
rolling  out.  These  are  excellent  and  economical  cookies,  and 
the  only  trick  is  to  use  as  little  flour  as  possible. — [Mrs.  B.  G., 
Mich. 

Soft  Ginger  Cookies 

Stir  together  1  cup  sugar,  1  cup  molasses,  1  cup  shortening, 
1  egg,  1  yolk  of  an  egg,  1  tablesp  vinegar,  1  heaping  teasp 
ginger,  1  level  teasp  soda  dissolved  in  a  little  warm  water, 
and  flour  enough  to  make  stiff.  Roll,  cut  out  the  cookies,  and 
dip  the  tops  in  the  white  of  an  egg  (do  not  beat  the  white), 
then  dip  in  sugar.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  and  watch  care- 
fully, as  they  burn  easily. —  [Mrs.  J.  J.  M.,  111. 


1 

i^^^H 

Fi»     .w      ^HHH^K 

HRH 

Kl*  '1  i  flMB 

W^V' 

'^'.■'  ■  Pw 

^^^' 

W 

Wf 

l^^m- 

"  •'!** 

M 

a^^^    ^1    \  >'i^ 

1 

^^^^^^^^■^H 

1 

^^HjJ^BP^^       ^     !/// 

w 

1 

W               h'*   '^ 

^m 

^^F 

HLi- 

■  V,^. 

■•'•" '-'k.' 

•.•    '    ■'   '^B 

HHliito^r! 

m 

o 


THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK        145 

Sorghum  Cookies 

Put  1  pt  best  sorghum,  or  molasses,  in  an  agate  pan  with 
2  heaping  tablesp  butter,  and  let  it  heat  to  the  boiling  point. 
Then  stir  in  1  pt  flour,  and  when  cold  add  2  eggs,  well  beaten, 
1  teasp  each  cinnamon  and  ginger,  and  1  teasp  soda  dissolved 
in  1  tablesp  sharp  vinegar.  Also  add  a  little  cloves,  if  the  fla- 
voring is  liked,  and  then  flour  enough  to  roll  thin.  Bake  in  a 
moderate  oven. — [B.  W.,  Wis. 

Molasses  Cookies 

Beat  1  egg,  add  1  cup  molasses,  3  tablesp  vinegar,  scant  1 
cup  lard,  3  teasp  soda  dissolved  in  ^/^  cup  hot  water,  1  tablesp 
ginger  sifted  with  flour  enough  to  make  a  dough  that  can  be 
handled.  Roll  V2  inch  thick,  cut  in  any  desired  shape,  and 
bake  in  hot  oven,  watching  carefully  so  they  will  not  burn. — ^ 
[I.  A.  S.,  Me. 

Marbled  Cookies 

Cream  1  cup  butter  with  2  cups  sugar,  add  4  well-beaten  eggs 
and  3  cups  flour  sifted  with  1  teasp  soda  and  2  teasp  cream 
tartar  (or  substitute  for  the  soda  and  cream  tartar  2  teasp 
baking  powder).  Divide  the  dough  and  in  one  half  mix  Yz 
cup  grated,  melted  chocolate  and  to  the  other  half  add  the 
juice  and  grated  rind  of  an  orange.  Add  more  flour  to  each 
half  if  necessary.  Combine  both  portions  into  a  streaked  lump, 
and  roll  thin.    Bake  in  rather  hot  oven. — [Mrs.  J.  W.,  N.  Y. 

Popcorn  Cookies 

To  2  well-beaten  eggs  add  1  cup  granulated  sugar,  1  teasp 
vanilla,  y2  teasp  soda  dissolved  in  a  little  warm  water,  1  teasp 
cream  tartar  sifted  with  flour  to  make  a  dough  stiff  enough  to 
roll  thin.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven.  When  these  are  properly 
made  you  will  readilj''  see  why  I  call  them  popcorn  cookies. — ^ 
[Mrs.  A.  W.  S.,  Pa. 

Eggless  Cookies 

Cream  1  cup  butter  with  2  cups  sugar,  add  1  cup  milk,  and 
1  teasp  baking  powder  sifted  with  flour  enough  to  make  a 
dough  of  the  proper  consistency.  These  v/ill  keep  nice  and 
fresh  for  weeks. — [A.  C.  S.,  Miss. 

Maple  Syrup  Cookies 

To  1  beaten  egg  add  T  cup  maple  syrup,  1  teasp  soda  dis- 
solved  in  a  little  hot  water,  6  tablesp  melted  lard,  salt  and 
ginger  to  taste,  and  flour  enough  to  make  a  dough  that  can  be 
handled. —  [I.  A.  S.,  Me. 


146  THE  ORANGE  JUDD   COOK  BOOK 


Butter  Cookies 

Cream  1  cup  butter  with  1  cup  sugar,  add  1  egg  and  4  tablesp 
sour  milk,  in  which  dissolve  1  level  teasp  soda.  Beat  this  mix- 
ture well,  then  add  enough  flour  so  the  dough  will  not  stick  to 
the  hands.  Roll  very  thin,  cut,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven. — ^ 
tMrs.  B.  W.,  Wis. 

Anise  Cookies 

To  1  lb  sugar  (scant)  add  1  tablesp  butter,  3  or  4  eggs,  %' 
cup  almonds,  blanched  and  chopped,  ^  teasp  anise  seed,  and 
flour  to  make  a  dough  stiff  enough  to  knead,  sifted  with  1 
teasp  baking  powder  and  a  little  salt.  Form  in  a  loaf  about  4 
inches  wide  and  1  inch  thick,  let  stand  over  night,  and  in  the 
morning  cut  up  in  slices  and  bake. —  [A.  H.,  Wis. 

Cocoannt  Cookies 

Beat  2  eggs  until  light,  add  gradually  1  cup  sugar,  %  cup 
grated  or  dessicated  cocoanut,  1  cup  thick,  sweet  cream,  and 
3  cups  flour  sifted  with  3  level  teasp  baking  powder  and  1 
teasp  salt.  Roll  to  */^  inch  thick,  sprinkle  with  some  cocoanut 
and  then  roll  down  to  V4,  inch  thick,  and  cut  out  and  bake.— • 
[Mrs.  C.  J.  C,  Wis. 

Buttermilk  Cookies  (No  eggs) 

Cream  scant  %  cup  lard  with  1  cup  sugar,  add  1  cup  butter- 
milk, in  which  dissolve  1  teasp  soda,  2  teasp  lemon  or  vanilla 
extract,  salt  to  taste  and  flour  to  stiffen.  Roll  out  quite  thick, 
cut,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. —  [Mrs.  J.  H.  W.,  Me. 

Wheat    Cookies    (No   eggs) 

Cream  V2  cup  butter  with  2  scant  cups  sugar,  add  1  teasp 
soda  dissolved  in  i/^  cup  hot  water,  then  add  2  cups  crushed 
(steamed)  wheat.  Roll  thin  like  ginger  snaps,  and  bake  in. 
moderate  oven.  Rolled  oats  may  be  substituted  for  the  wheat. 
[C.  M.,  Pa. 

Walnut   Cookies 

Cream  %  cup  butter  with  1  cup  sugar,  add  1  egg,  %  cup 
milk,  1  cup  walnut  meats  cut  fine,  1  teasp  vanilla,  and  1  teasp 
baking  powder  mixed  with  flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff  drop 
batter.  Drop  in  little  cakes  on  greased  tins. — [Mrs.  R.  C, 
Mass. 

Peanut  Cookies 

Cream  4  tablesp  butter  with  i^  cup  sugar,  add  2  eggs,  4 
tablesp  milk,   1  teasp  lemon  extract,  a  little  salt,  and  1  cup 


THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK        147 


flour  sifted  with  2  teasp  baking  powder.  Lastly  add  1  cup 
chopped  peanuts.  Drop  on  buttered  tins  by  tablespoonsful, 
and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  This  makes  about  a  dozen 
cookies. — [E.   H.,  Wash. 

Oatmeal  Jelly   Cookies 

Cream  1  cup  butter  and  1  cup  lard  with  1  cup  white  sugar 
and  1  cup  brown  sugar,  add  8  tablesp  hot  water,  in  which 
dissolve  1  teasp  soda,  then  stir  in  6  cups  oatmeal  ( 3  put  through 
the  meat  chopper — fine  cut),  and  lastly  add  2  cups  flour.  Roll, 
cut  and  spread  with  the  following  filling  and  fold  over:  Fill- 
ing— To  1  lb  seeded  and  chopped  raisins  add  1  cup  sugar  and  a 
little  water  and  boil  until  the  consistency  of  jelly. — [Mrs.  F. 
W.  R.,  Mich. 

Oatmeal  Nut  Cookies 

Cream  scant  %  cup  butter,  add  gradually  1  cup  light  brown 
sugar,  then  2  well-beaten  eggs,  and  4  tablesp  sweet  milk. 
Next  stir  in  2  cups  rolled  oats,  and  when  these  are  well  mois- 
tened, add  1  cup  flour  sifted  with  1  level  teasp  each  soda  and 
salt,  also  cinnamon,  cloves  and  nutmeg  to  taste.  Lastly  add 
1  cup  seeded  and  chopped  raisins  and  %  cup  chopped  nut 
meats  dredged  with  flour.  Drop  by  teaspoonsful  on  buttered 
tins  far  enough  apart  so  they  will  not  crowd  and  run  together. 
If  the  batter  does  not  seem  stiff  enough,  add  more  flour. — 
[Mrs.  J.  A.  W.,  Mo. 

Oatmeal  Cookies 

Cream  1  cup  butter  and  lard  mixed,  with  1%  cups  sugar,  add 
3  eggs,  %  cup  sour  milk,  in  which  dissolve  1  teasp  soda,  2 
cups  rolled  oats,  2  cups  flour,  sifted  with  a  little  salt  and  1  heap- 
ing teasp  cinnamon.  Lastly  mix  in  1  cup  seeded  and  chopped 
raisins.  Drop  by  spoonsful  on  buttered  tins,  and  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven. — [Mrs.  M.  D.  M.,  Wash. 

Oatmeal  Macaroox^ 

Beat  2  eggs  light,  add  1  cup  sugar,  1  teasp  vanilla,  2^  cups 
rolled  (steamed)  oats,  1  teasp  baking  powder,  a  little  salt,  and 
1  tablesp  melted  butter.  Drop  by  teaspoonsful  on  greased  tins, 
and  bake.  When  done  slip  a  knife  under  each  cookie,  carefully 
remove  from  tin,  and  cool. — [Mrs.  R.  C,  Mass. 

Jelly  Jumbles 

Cream  %  cup  butter  with  1  cup  sugar,  add  1  egg,  %  teasp 
soda  dissolved  in  V2  cup  sour  milk,  and  flour  enough  to  roll. 
Roll  about  1^  inch  thick,  cut  with  biscuit  cutter  and  from 
half  of  these  cut  out  the  center  with  a  large  thimble.     Spread 


148  THE   ORANGE  JUDD   COOK  BOOK 


jelly  over  the  biscuit  halves,  cover  with  the  doughnut  halves, 
and  bake.  This  will  make  about  25  jumbles. — [Mrs.  A.  R.  W., 
Mass. 

Russian  Rocks 

Cream  1  scant  cup  butter  with  2  cups  brown  sugar,  add  3 
eggs,  one  at  a  time,  1^  teasp  soda  dissolved  in  Yz  cup  boiling 
water,  1  lb  seeded  and  chopped  raisins,  1  lb  nut  meats,  cut 
fine,  Yz  teasp  each  cinnamon  and  cloves,  sifted  with  3  cups 
flour.  Drop  by  teaspoonsful  on  greased  tins,  and  bake. — » 
[M.  R.,  Tex. 

Date  Bocks 

Cream  1  cup  butter  with  Vz  cup  sugar,  add  3  eggs,  1  teasp 
soda  dissolved  in  2  tablesp  water,  flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff 
batter,  sifted  with  1  teasp  each  cinnamon  and  allspice,  and 
lastly  add  2  lbs  dates,  pitted  and  cut  fine.  Drop  by  spoonsful 
on  greased  cookie  pans,  and  when  baked  brush  with  any  pre- 
ferred icing. — [Mrs.  C.  W.  S.,  Wis. 

Ginger  Snaps 

Cream  1  cup  butter  with  1  cup  sugar,  add  1  cup  molasses 
and  1  tablesp  ginger,  1  teasp  soda  dissolved  in  a  little  water, 
and  as  much  flour  as  can  possibly  be  stirred  in  (not  kneaded). 
Pinch  off  pieces  about  the  size  of  a  marble,  roll  in  the  hands, 
pat  flat  and  put  on  well  greased  tins,  allowing  space  between 
each  one  for  spreading.  Bake  in  a  m^oderate  oven  until  a  nice 
brown,  and  leave  in  the  pan  until  they  cool  sufficiently  to  be 
"snappy." — [E.  B.  U.,  Mo. 

Ginger  Snaps  (No  shortening) 

To  1  cup  molasses  add  1  cup  sugar,  2  eggs,  1  scant  tablesp 
soda,  1  teasp  ginger,  pinch  salt,  1  tablesp  vinegar,  and  flour 
enough  to  make  a  soft  dough  that  will  roll.  Roll  very  thin  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  These  will  not  harden  until  they 
are  cold.— [Mrs.  S.  M.  A.,  N.  Y. 

Ginger  Snaps  with  Buttermilk 

Thoroughly  mix  1  cup  lard  with  1  cup  sugar,  add  1  pt 
molasses,  1  cup  buttermilk,  in  which  dissolve  1  tablesp  soda, 
and  1  tablesp  ginger  sifted  with  enough  flour  to  make  a  stiff 
dough.  Let  stand  over  night,  roll  thin,  cut,  and  bake  in  a  hot 
oven. —  [Mrs.  D.  A.  P.,  Pa. 

Coffee  Drops 

Mix  2  cups  sugar  with  6  or  7  tablesp  lard,  add  2  eggs,  1  cup 
molasses,  2  teasp  soda  dissolved  in  1  cup  hot  coffee,  and  1  teasp 


THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK        149 


allspice  sifted  with  about  5  cups  flour.  Drop  by  teaspsoonsful 
on  buttered  tins.  Bake  in  quick  oven.  Remove  from  tins,  lay 
on  a  board  to  cool,  and  pack  away  in  jars  with  bits  of  cheese- 
cloth laid  between  each  layer. — [Mrs.  C.  H.  H.,  N.  Y. 

Ginger  Drops 

To  1  cup  N  O  molasses  add  1  cup  melted  shortening,  %  cup 
melted  butter,  i^  cup  sugar,  1  tablesp  ginger,  scant  %  cup 
water,  in  which  dissolve  1  teasp  soda,  and  flour  enough  so 
that  the  batter  can  be  dropped  by  teaspoonsful.  Lastly  add 
2  well-beaten  eggs.  Bake  quickly.  It  is  best  to  try  a  little 
before  adding  too  much  flour,  or  they  will  be  spoiled.  Drop 
the  batter  by  spoonsful  about  2  inches  apart  on  well  greased 
tins.  For  the  sake  of  variety  I  sometimes  add  i/^  cup  grated 
cocoanut  or  i/^  cup  currants,  or  same  quantity  of  chopped 
raisins,  or  1  tablesp  mixed  spices  and  Vz  teasp  black  pepper. — - 
[Mrs.  E.  J.  C,  Neb. 

Sponge  Drops 

Beat  3  eggs  together,  add  1  cup  sugar,  and  1  cup  flour 
sifted  with  1  teasp  cream  tartar.  Dissolve  %  teasp  soda  in 
a  little  warm  water  and  stir  this  through  the  batter  thoroughly. 
Flavor  to  taste.  Drop  by  teaspoonsful  on  buttered  tins,  and 
bake  in  a  hot  oven. — [Miss  E.  W.,  N.  H. 

Oatmeal  Drops 

Cream  1  cup  butter  with  1  cup  brown  sugar,  add  2  eggs,  % 
cup  sour  milk,  in  which  dissolve  1  teasp  soda,  2  cups  oatmeal 
and  2  cups  flour  sifted  with  1  teasp  cinnamon.  Lastly  add  1 
cup  currants  and  V2  cup  nut  meats  lightly  dredged  with  flour. 
Drop  by  spoonsful  on  greased  tins  and  bake. —  [Mrs.  J.  L. 
K.,  la, 

Cocoanut  Drops 

To  1  grated  cocoanut  add  i/^  to  %  lb  sugar  and  2  or  3 
eggs.  Drop  by  teaspoonsful  on  buttered  tins,  far  enough  apart 
so  they  will  not  run  together,  and  bake  a  light  brown. — [Mrs. 
W.  H.  C,  N.  C. 

Sour  Cream   Cakes    (No  butter) 

To  1  well-beaten  egg  add  1  cup  sugar,  l^^  cups  sour  cream 
in  which  dissolve  1  teasp  soda,  1  tablesp  of  any  preferred  fla- 
voring, and  2  teasp  baking  powder  sifted  with  flour  enough  to 
roll.  Cut  Ys  inch  thick.  These  cakes  will  rise,  and  are  like 
small  sour-cream  sponge  cakes. —  [Mrs.  R.  A.  G.,  N.  Y. 


150  THE   ORANGE  JUDD   COOK  BOOK 


Spice  Squares 

To  1  cup  sugar  add  4  tablesp  melted  butter,  2  tablesp  molas- 
ses, 1  egg,  1  cup  sour  milk,  in  whicli  dissolve  1  level  teasp 
soda.  2  cups  flour  sifted  with  1  teasp  cinnamon  and  '^^  teasp 
each  cloves,  nutmeg  and  allspice.  Beat  well  for  about  two 
minutes  and  then  turn  into  a  square  tin,  having  the  batter  no 
more  than  about  1  inch  deep.  Sprinkle  granulated  sugar  on 
the  top  and  bake  about  40  minutes  in  moderate  oven.  When 
cold  cut  in  squares  and  put  away  in  stone  crock.  These  cakes 
are  better  the  day  after  they  are  baked. — [J.  C.  W.,  Mass. 

Cream  Puffs 

Melt  %  cup  butter  in  1  cup  hot  water  and  when  boiling  beat 
in  1  cup  flour.  Stir  until  it  works  up  in  a  ball  and  does  not 
stick  to  the  pan,  then  remove  from  fire  and  cool,  after  which 
stir  in  3  eggs,  one  at  a  time,  without  beating  any  more  than  is 
necessary.  Drop  tablespoonsful  of  this  mixture  on  buttered 
tins,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven,  until  light  brown.  When 
cool  make  little  openings  in  the  sides  of  the  puffs  and  fill 
with  whipped  and  sweetened  cream,  or  with  a  cream  made  by 
boiling  together  1  cup  milk,  1  egg,  scant  %  cup  sugar,  and  2 
tablesp  flour.  Flavor  with  lemon  or  vanilla. —  [Miss  F.  C.  A., 
Mass. 

Caraway-seed  Cup  Cakes 

Cream  %  cup  butter  with  2  cups  sugar,  add  2  well-beaten 
eggs,  2  cups  sour  cream,  in  which  dissolve  1  teasp  soda,  2 
tablesp  caraway-seed,  and  flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff  batter. 
Bake  in  well  greased  iron  gem  pans  in  a  hot  oven.  Don't  fill 
the  gem  pans  more  than  half  full. —  [R.  A.  McD.,  S.  D. 

Oatmeal  Date  Cakes 

Cream  1  cup  butter  with  1  cup  sugar,  add  1  teasp  soda 
dissolved  in  V2  cup  water,  2  cups  rolled  oats,  and  3  cups  flour. 
Roll  out  1/4  inch  thick,  spread  half  of  the  dough  surface  with 
dates,  pitted  and  cut  fine,  turn  the  other  half  of  the  dough 
over  it,  roll  thin,  cut  out,  and  bake. — [S.  E.  F.,  Cal. 

Lady  Fingers 

Beat  to  a  cream  1  cup  sugar  and  2  eggs,  add  4  tablesp  milk, 
and  flour  enough  to  thicken,  sifted  with  2  scant  teasp  baking 
powder.  Roll  and  cut  in  small  pieces  size  of  finger  and  bake  in 
quick  oven.  When  cold  dust  with  powdered  sugar. — [Miss  I. 
J.  K..  Minn. 


THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK        151 


Strawberry  Fingers 

Boil  together  1  cup  fresh,  cold  water  and  %  cup  butter.  Into 
this  boiling  mixture  stir  1  cup  sifted  flour,  and  stir  constantly 
until  it  rolls  together  in  a  ball.  When  partly  cool,  add  4  eggs, 
beating  in  one  at  a  time,  but  do  not  beat  the  eggs  separately. 
Drop  this  mixture  on  a  thin,  buttered  tin  in  long,  narrow 
strips,  one  inch  apart.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  well 
risen  and  a  delicate  brown — y^  hour  is  generally  enough. 
The  oven  door  should  be  left  open  a  few  minutes  before  remov- 
ing the  fingers  therefrom.  This  will  prevent  them  from  col- 
lapsing. When  cool  split  the  fingers  on  one  side,  fill  with 
crushed  strawberries,  or  strawberry  jam.  Spread  tops  of 
fingers  with  an  icing  colored  with  the  berry  juice. —  [Mrs.  N. 
P.,  N.  H. 

Sngar  Crackers 

Cream  1  cup  butter  with  2  cups  sugar,  add  1  ^zz^  V2,  teasp 
soda  dissolved  in  %  cup  cold  water,  and  1  teasp  cream  tartar 
sifted  with  flour  enough  to  roll.  Mix  soft,  roll  thin  and  bake 
quickly.  These  crackers  are  crisp  and  delicious. —  [Mrs.  E.  W. 
R.,  N.  Y. 

Cheap  Oatmeal  Crackers 

To  1  cup  rolled  oats  add  1  cup  flour  with  a  small  pinch  bak- 
ing powder,  a  little  salt,  and  1  tablesp  sugar.  Rub  2  tablesp 
butter  in  this  mixture  and  just  enough  water  to  hold  it 
together.  Roll  out  thin  on  a  floured  board,  cut  and  bake. — ^ 
[M.  L.  Q.,  Me. 

Graham  Crackers 

-  Cream  ^^  cup  butter  with  Vz  cup  sugar,  add  Vz  teasp  soda 
dissolved  in  %  cup  water,  about  a  handful  white  flour,  and 
enough  graham  flour  to  roll.  Roll  thin,  cut  in  any  desired 
shape,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. —  [R.  W.,  Mo. 

Lemon  Crackers 

-^  Cream  1  cup  snortening  with  2  y^  cups  sugar,  add  2  eggs,  1 
scant  cup  milk,  1%  teasp  baking  ammonia,  with  flour  enough 
to  make  a  stiff  batter.  Let  stand  about  3  hours  to  rise,  then 
add  a  little  oil  of  lemon,  and  flour  enough  to  make  batter  a 
little  stiff er  than  for  cookies.  Roll,  cut,  and  bake. — [Mrs.  S. 
E.  F.,  Cal. 

Bnttermilk  Crackers 

Cream  %  lb  lard  with  2  lbs  sugar,  add  1  teasp  soda  dissolved 
in  scant  1%   pts  buttermilk.     Flavor  with  a  little   lemon,  if 


152  THE   ORANGE  JUDD   COOK  BOOK 


liked,  and  then  sift  in  2%  qts  flour,  or  perhaps  a  little  more, 
if  needed.  Roll  thin,  cut  with  a  small,  round  cutter,  prick 
with  a  fork,  and  bake  in  a  not  too  hot  oven. — [Mrs.  N.  P.,  N.  H. 

Cheese  Crackers 

Spread  a  layer  of  puff  paste  with  some  grated  cheese  and 
a  little  cayenne  pepper.  Double  up  paste,  roll  out  again  rather 
thin,  and  cut  it  with  a  small,  round  pastry  cutter.  Glaze  with 
the  white  of  an  egg,  lay  the  crackers  on  a  floured  tin,  and  bake 
in  a  quick  oven  to  a  pale  straw  color. — [Mrs.  J.  F.  Q.,  N.  Y. 

Whole-wheat  Crackers 

Into  about  2  qts  whole-wheat  flour,  sifted  with  1  tablesp 
baking  powder,  cut  1  cup  shortening.  In  another  bowl  break 
3  eggs,  beat  well,  add  3  tablesp  sugar,  1  tablesp  salt  and  l^/^ 
pts  water.  Add  this  to  the  flour  and  shortening  mixture,  and 
if  necessary  add  more  flour.  Roll  as  thin  as  pie  crust,  prick 
with  a  fork,  cut  in  squares  or  in  any  fancy  shape  desired,  place 
on  lightly  greased  tins,  and  bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven 
until  brown.  After  they  are  done  let  them  stand  in  the  oven 
a  few  minutes  with  the  door  open,  to  let  the  crackers  dry  out. 
They  will  then  be  nice  and  crisp.  Graham  crackers  can  be 
made  by  following  this  same  recipe,  but  substituting  graham 
flour  for  the  whole- wheat  flour. — [S.  E.  H.,  Cal. 

Graham  Wafers 

Cream  1  cup  butter  with  1  cup  sugar,  add  1  cup  sour  cream, 
in  which  dissolve  1  teasp  soda,  mix  soft  with  graham  flour,  roll 
thin,  and  bake  quickly.  These  are  wholesome  and  good  for 
the  children. — [Mrs.  E.  W.  R.,  N.  Y. 

Vanilla  Wafers 

Cream  ^/^  cup  butter  with  1  cup  sugar  (or  use  lard  and  but- 
ter mixed),  add  1  egg,  4  tablesp  sweet  cream,  1  scant  tablesp 
vanilla,  1  Vz  teasp  cream  tartar  and  scant  %  teasp  soda,  sifted 
with  flour  enough  to  roll.  Roll  very  thin  and  bake  quickly. 
These  are  fine. — [Mrs.  A.  S.,  N.  H. 

Ice   Cream  Wafers 

Make  a  meringue  of  the  thoroughly  beaten  whites  of  2 
eggs,  pinch  salt  and  2  tablesp  powdered  sugar,  then  add  % 
cup  chopped  nut  meats  and  spread  this  mixture  on  plain  wafers 
or  salted  crackers,  and  bake  only  just  long  enough  to  cook 
the  meringue.  This  is  nice  to  serve  with  ice  cream. —  [Mrs.  A. 
J.  P..  Wis. 


^ 


Biseaits,  Muffins  and  Dumplings 


"L&J" 


EAVY  biscuits,  made  by  newly-wed  wives, 
have  served  as  capital  for  the  joke-makers 
for  many  years,  but  the  following  recipes 
are  all  so  plain  and  the  directions  so  easy 
to  follow,  that  with  their  aid  even  the  inex- 
perienced, amateur  home-baker  ought  to  be 
able  to  turn  out  creditable  results  in  the  line  of  biscuits, 
muffins,  gems,  dumplings,  etc.  As  will  be  noted,  soft 
doughs,  little  handling  and  quick  baking  are  the  three 
essentials  to  success  in  this  department  of  cookery.  It 
goes  without  saying  that  only  the  best  obtainable  ingredi- 
ents should  be  used,  as  no  good  results  can  reasonably  be 
expected  from  inferior  qualities  of  flour,  baking  powder, 
spices,  etc.  There  is  no  lack  of  variety  among  the  follow- 
ing recipes.     Try  some  of  them. 

Baking  Powder  Biscuits  I 

To  1  qt  sifted  flour  add  3  heaping  teasp  baking  powdex%  1 
level  teasp  salt,  1  tablesp  each  of  lard  and  butter,  and  milk 
enough  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Mould  quickly,  handle  as  little 
as  possible,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. —  [Mrs.  W.  A.  M.,  N.  Y. 

Baking  Powder  Biscuits  II 

To  1  qt  sifted  flour  add  3  teasp  baking  powder,  a  little  salt, 
1  cup  rich,  sweet  cream,  and  milk  enough  to  make  a  dough  of 
the  proper  consistency. — [E.  T.,  Va. 

Drop  Biscuits 

To  every  pt  flour  add  ^/^  teasp  salt,  2  teasp  baking  powder, 
and  1  tablesp  melted  butter,  with  enough  sweet  milk  to  make 
a  stiff  batter.  Drop  the  mixture  into  hot  gem  pans,  well 
greased,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven.  One  pt  flour  will  make  8 
biscuits. —  [Mrs.  W.  T.  F.,  Mo. 

Soda  Biscuits 

To  1  cup  buttermilk  add  %  cup  cream,  in  which  dissolve  1 
level  teasp  soda,  i/4  teasp  salt,  and  flour  enough  to  roll.  Cut, 
and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. — [Mrs.  J.  C.  S.,  N.  Y. 

153 


154  THE   ORANGE  JUDD   COOK  BOOK 


Cream  Tartar  Biscuits 

To  1  qt  flour  add  1  teasp  salt,  1  teasp  soda,  2  teasp  cream 
tartar,  mix  well,  and  then  add  4  tablesp  thick,  sweet  cream, 
and  water  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Do  not  roll,  but  presb  out 
lightly  with  the  hands,  cut,  and  bake  10  minutes  in  hot  oven. 
^[J.  E.  P.,  N.  H. 

Sour  Milk  Biscuits 

Sift  1  qt  flour  with  1  level  teasp  salt  and  2  heaping  teasp 
baking  powder.  Stir  into  this  5  tablesp  sour  cream,  in  which 
1  level  teasp  soda  has  been  dissolved,  then  add  sour  milk 
enough  to  make  a  dough  of  the  proper  consistency  to  roll.  Cut 
with  a  biscuit  cutter  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven.  If  sweetened 
biscuits  are  liked  add  %  cup  sugar. — [Mrs.  J.  H.  S.,  N.  Y. 

Bran  Biscuits 

To  2  cups  nice,  clean  bran  add  1  cup  wheat  flour,  1%  cups 
sour  milk,  %  cup  melted  butter,  3  tablesp  molasses  and  1  teasp 
soda  dissolved  in  r  little  warm  water,  and  put  in  the  last  thing. 
Bake  in  gem  pans.  These  are  excellent  for  those  troubled  with 
constipation. — [Mrs.  B.  W.  A.,  Cal. 

Egg  Biscuits 

To  3  well-beaten  eggs  add  1  cup  milk,  l^^  cups  sugar,  1 
scant  cup  lard  or  butter  and  4  teasp  baking  powder,  sifted  with 
flour  enough  to  roll.  Cut  out,  sprinkle  sugar  over  each  biscuit* 
and  place  a  raisin  in  the  center  of  each.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven. 
— [0.  B.  0„,  Kan. 

Graham  Drop  Biscuits 

To  1  pt  graham  flour  add  %  cup  white  flour,  1  level  teasp 
soda,  Vz  teasp  salt,  1  tablesp  sugar,  1  egg,  1  tablesp  thick,  sour 
cream,  and  enough  sour  milk  or  buttermilk  to  make  a  stiff  bat' 
ter.  Mix  and  beat  well,  and  drop  by  tablespoonsful  on  a  well 
greased  biscuit  pan,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  20  to  25  minutes, 
or  until  a  light  brown. — [Mrs.  E.  P.  C,  Me. 

Breakfast  Biscuits 

To  %  cup  sugar  add  1  cup  cream,  %  cup  seeded  and  chopped 
raisins,  a  little  salt  and  nutmeg,  and  1  teasp  baking  powder 
sifted  with  flour  enough  to  make  a  dough  as  soft  as  can  be  con- 
veniently handled.  Roll,  cut,  and  bake  as  biscuits. — [A.  E.  R., 
N.  H. 


THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK       155 


Blueberry  Biscuits 

To  1  pt  flour  add  ^  teasp  salt,  3  level  teasp  baking  powder, 
1  level  tablesp  butter,  %  cup  sugar,  and  milk  enough  to  mois- 
ten. Have  batter  stiff  enough  to  keep  it  shaped  when  dropped 
from  the  spoon.  Lastly  add  1  cup  blueberries,  washed,  dried 
and  dredged  with  flour.  Drop  the  batter  by  spoonsful  in  well 
greased  gem  pans,  and  bake  20  minutes. — [M.  B.,  Ill 

Scotch  Biscuits 

To  2  cups  flour  add  3  level  teasp  baking  powder,  1  tablesp 
BUgar,  V2  teasp  salt,  3  tablesp  butter,  2  well-beaten  eggs,  V2 
cup  sweet  cream  and  the  grated  rind  of  a  lemon.  Roll,  cut  and 
brush  the  tops  with  white  of  egg,  and  sprinkle  with  sugar. 
Bake  in  hot  oven.  15  minutes.    These  are  fine. — [Mrs.  C.  P    Pa. 

Sweet  Biscuits 

To  4  cups  light  bread  sponge  add  1  cup  sugar,  %  cup  melted 
bwtter,  and  2  or  3  beaten  eggs.  Mix  well,  then  add  enough 
flour  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Let  rise,  and  when  light  knead 
Into  biscuits,  let  rise  again  and  when  light,  bake. — [Mrs.  J.  B., 
Kan. 

Ginger  Biscuits 

To  1 V2  cups  molasses  add  scant  %  cup  hot  water,  1  tablesp 
shortening,  1  teasp  soda,  %  teasp  ginger,  and  flour  enough  to 
thicken  to  the  consistency  of  cake  batter.  Bake  in  a  shallow 
pan,  and  watch  carefully  as  it  bums  easily.  Cut  up  in  large 
pieces  while  it  is  still  warm.  To  be  eaten  with  butter,  like  bis- 
cuits.— [Mrs.  E.  S.  M.,  N.  Y. 

Sweet  Potato  Biscuits 

Break  into  halves  3  good  sized  baked  sweet  potatoes,  then 
take  out  the  centers,  and  press  through  a  sieve.  Add  scant 
teasp  salt,  1  tablesp  butter,  1  pt  milk,  1  beaten  egg  and  2 
rounding  teasp  baking  powder  sifted  with  1  pt  flour.  Pour  into 
well  greased  patty  pans  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  about  25  min- 
utes.— [M.  B.  G.,  Wis. 

Light  Biscuits 

Scald  1  cup  milk,  add  scant  Vz  cup  sugar  and  2  tablesp  but- 
ter. When  cool  add  this  to  2  cups  light  bread  sponge,  with 
flour  enough  to  mould  into  a  loaf.  Let  rise  until  very  light,  then 
mould  into  biscuits,  and  when  light  again,  bake. — ^[Mrs.  W.  G. 
T.,  N.  Y. 


156        THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK 


Bread  Biscuits 

To  some  light  bread  dough,  enough  for  a  small  loaf,  add  % 
cup  lard,  1  scant  teasp  soda,  2  tablesp  sugar  and  1  egg.  Mix 
thoroughly,  add  flour  as  required,  mould  into  biscuits,  and  let 
rise.  Bake  in  a  quick  oven.  Raisins  or  currants  may  be  added 
if  liked. — [Mrs.  W.  M.  G.,  Ct. 

Kaised  Biscuits 

Dissolve  V2  cake  dry  yeast  in  a  little  warm  water.  While 
this  is  dissolving  beat  butter  the  size  of  an  egg  with  2  tablesp 
sugar  and  1  egg.  Stir  this  and  the  dissolved  yeast  into  2  cups 
lukewarm  milk,  add  V2  teasp  salt,  and  flour  enough  to  make  a 
dough  just  stiff  enough  to  handle.  Cover,  set  in  a  warm  place, 
and  let  rise  over  night.  Knead  down  in  the  morning,  let  rise 
again,  then  mould  into  biscuits,  and  when  light,  bake  about  35 
minutes.  If  a  half  cake  compressed  yeast  is  used,  the  sponge 
can  be  started  in  the  morning. —  [Mrs.  J.  W.  Van  B.,  Wis. 

Maryland  Biscuits 

To  2  qts  flour  add  1  teasp  salt  and  1  cup  butter.  Work  the 
butter  well  into  the  flour,  and  wet  with  cold  water  to  form  a 
dough.  Then  place  on  kneading  board  and  beat  about  15  min- 
utes with  a  potato  masher,  slowly  sifting  flour  on  the  board 
to  keep  the  dough  from  sticking.  When  hard  beat  at  least  15 
minutes  longer,  then  roll  out  %  inch  thick,  cut  with  a  biscuit 
cutter,  prick  holes  in  each  biscuit  with  a  fork,  and  bake  imme- 
diately.— [Mrs.  H.  L.,  Va. 

Madison  Biscuits 

To  2  qts  flour  add  %  cup  yeast,  3  well-beaten  eggs,  ^/^  cup 
sugar,  2  cups  milk,  1  tablesp  salt  and  water  enough  to  make 
a  batter  stiff  enough  to  hold  a  spoon  upright.  Set  away  in  a 
warm  place  to  rise,  then  work  in  a  little  flour,  and  cut  out  into 
biscuits.  Let  this  stand  10  or  15  minutes,  and  then  bake  in  a 
hot  oven. —  [Mrs.  D.  T.  K.,  N.  C. 

Mush  Biscuits 

Add  a  little  salt  to  1  qt  boiling  water,  stir  in  1  scant  cup 
white  cornmeal,  and  boil  20  minutes.  When  cooled  to  luke- 
warm add  %  cup  lard  and  1  cup  yeast  sponge.  Knead  stiff 
with  flour,  set  away  in  a  crock,  and  let  rise.  When  light,  work 
it  down  and  then  set  away  in  a  cold  place,  or  put  it  in  the  ice 
box.  This  dough  is  then  ready  to  roll  out  in  small  biscuits 
and  to  bake  at  any  time  you  want,  a  few  at  a  time,  and  they 
are  very  fine. — [E.  E.  S.,  111. 


THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK        157 


Squash  Biscuit 

To  1  qt  winter  squash,  boiled  and  sifted,  add  1  cup  hop 
yeast,  or  2  cakes  compressed  yeast,  1  cup  sugar,  3  large  tablesp 
butter,  1  teasp  soda  and  a  little  salt.  If  squash  is  very  dry  it 
will  require  about  V2  cup  sweet  milk.  Mix  all  these  ingredients 
together  with  flour  enough  for  a  sponge.  When  light  mix  in 
some  flour  the  same  as  for  any  biscuit  dough,  but  do  not  make 
the  dough  too  stiff.  When  light  the  second  time  make  into  bis- 
cuits, let  rise  again,  and  then  bake.  Mix  the  sponge  while  the 
squash  is  warm. —  [Mrs.  I.  B.  R.,  Wis. 

Sweet  Buns 

To  1  cup  sugar  add  1  egg,  V2  cup  sour  cream,  i^  cup  butter- 
milk or  sour  milk,  in  which  dissolve  1  level  teasp  soda,  then 
add  flour  enough  to  make  a  smooth  batter,  stiff  enough  to  keep 
its  shape  when  deposited  by  tablespoonsful  on  a  buttered  tin. 
Bake  in  a  quick  oven  and  watch  closely.  This  is  very  fine.  If 
liked,  flavor  with  caraway  seed,  for  a  change. — [N.  P.,  N.  H. 

Breakfast  Cakes 

Cream  1  cup  brown  sugar  with  %  cup  butter  (or  butter  and 
lard  mixed),  add  1  well-beaten  esS,  1  cup  molasses,  2  level 
teasp  soda  dissolved  in  1  cup  sour  milk,  and  4  cups  flour  sifted 
with  1  teasp  each  cinnamon,  salt  and  ginger.  Bake  in.  gem 
pans. — [Mrs.  A.  I.,  la. 

Muffins 

To  1  beaten  egg  add  1  cup  milk  and  1  cup  flour  sifted  with 
1  teasp  baking  powder  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Bake  in  hot,  well 
greased  gem  tins  in  hot  oven. —  [Mrs.  C.  E.  G.,  Ariz, 

Whole  Wheat  MuflSns 

To  IVz  cups  whole  wheat  flour  add  %  cup  white  flour,  2 
teasp  baking  powder,  or  2  teasp  cream  tartar  and  1  teasp  soda, 
1  well-beaten  egg,  1  tablesp  molasses  and  1  cup  milk. —  [B.  H. 
K.,  Me. 

Graham  Muffins  (No  Eggs) 

To  2  cups  sour  milk  add  1  teasp  soda,  a  little  salt  and  enough 
graham  flour  to  make  a  medium  stiff  batter.  Bake  in  quick 
oven. —  [Mrs.  W.  T.  F.,  Mo. 

Graham  Muffins 

To  1  qt  fresh  churned  or  "clabber"  milk  add  1  level  teasp 
each  soda  and^  salt,  and  stir  in  enough  graham  flour  to  make 


158  THE   ORANGE  JUDD   COOK  BOOK 


a  medium  thick  batter.  Lastly  stir  in  1  well-beateii  egg. 
Have  muffin  pans  hot  and  well  greased,  put  1  tablesp  of  the 
batter  in  each  ring,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven.  Serve  hot  with 
butter  and  sugar,  or  jelly.  Equal  parts  of  shorts  and  seconds 
well  mixed  make  an  excellent  graham  flour,  or  it  may  be 
ground  from  the  wheat,  but  must  not  be  bolted. — [I.  H.,  Ala. 

Rye  MuflSns 

To  1  cup  white  flour  add  1  cup  rye  meal,  %  teasp  salt,  2 
teasp  baking  powder,  %  cup  sugar,  piece  of  butter  the  size  of 
an  egg,  1  well-beaten  egg,  and  1  cup  milk. — [Unidentified. 

SoTir  Cream  Muffins 

To  1  pt  sour  cream  add  %  teasp  soda,  a  little  salt,  3  well- 
beaten  eggs,  and  enough  flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter.  These  are 
extra  fine. — [Mrs.  E.  E.  B.,  Md. 

Buttermilk  Muffins 

To  1  pt  rich  buttermilk  add  y2  teasp  soda  and  mix  in  suffi- 
cient flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter.  Lastly  add  1  well-beaten  egg 
and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Bake  in  patty  pans  or  rings,  in  a  quick 
oven. — [Mrs.  J.  G.  M.,  Cal. 

Yeast  Muflfins 

Scald  1  pt  milk  and  when  almost  cool  add  2  well-beaten  eggs, 
3  tablesp  yeast,  1  scant  teasp  salt,  and  flour  enough  to  make  a 
stiff  batter.  Let  rise  4  or  5  hours  and  bake  in  muffin  rings  in 
a  hot  oven  for  about  10  minutes. — [M.  B.,  111. 

Oatmeal   Muffins 

Sift  1  pt  flour  with  3  teasp  baking  powder  and  a  pinch  of 
salt,  add  1  beaten  egg,  with  2  tablesp  sugar,  1  tablesp  melted 
butter,  %  cup  milk,  and  1  cup  cooked  oatmeal.  Bake  in  gem 
pans  or  muffin  rings. — [Mrs.  S.  C.  P.,  Mass. 

Oatmeal  Muffins  (Yeast) 

To  1  large  cup  freshly  cooked  oatmeal,  add  1  tablesp  butter, 
1  tablesp  sugar,  1  teasp  salt  and  after  mixing  well  add  %  to 
,%  yeast  eake  dissolved  in  a  little  warm  water,  and  then  add 
enough  flour  to  mould  very  stiff.  Let  rise  until  light,  drop  in; 
warm  well  buttered  gem  pans,  let  rise  again  until  soft,  and 
bake  in  a  quick  oven  about  20  minutes. — [E.  E.  K.,  Mass. 


THE   ORANGE   JUDD   COOK  BOOK  159 


Honey    Muffins 

Sift  together  3  cups  flour,  3  teasp  baking  powder  and  i^ 
teasp  salt.  Then  work  in  3  tablesp  butter  and  add  3  well- 
beaten  eggs,  1  cup  milk  and  %  cup  strained  honey.  Bake  in 
gem  tins  or  muffin  rings  in  a  moderate  oven. — [C.  B.  H.,  Mich. 

Bice  Muffims 

To  1  cup  cold  boiled  rice  add  2  cups  milk,  2  well-beaten 
eggs,  3  tablesp  melted  butter,  1  tablesp  sugar,  a  little  salt  and 
2  teasp  baking  powder  sifted  with  flour  enough  to  make  a  soft 
batter  that  will  drop  from  the  spoon.  Fill  hot  gem  irons,  well 
greased,  and  bake  Vz  hour. — [Mrs.  E.  E.  S.,  Pa. 

Bran  Muffins 

To  1  cup  nice,  clean  bran  add  2  cups  commeal,  2  cups  sour 
milk  in  which  1  teasp  soda  has  been  dissolved,  a  little  salt  and 
1  tablesp  molasses  or  sugar.  Bake  in  muffin  tins  in  hot  oven. 
These  are  a  pleasant  cure  for  constipation,  if  eaten  once  a  day, 
and  are  very  good  for  small  children  so  troubled. — [B.  G.  B., 
Kan. 

Southern  Com  Muffins 

To  1  pt  buttermilk  add  1  level  teasp  soda,  1  pt  cornmeal,  1 
teasp  lard  or  butter,  1  beaten  egg,  and  a  little  salt  and  sugar. 
Bake  in  hot,  well  greased  muffin  pans,  in  a  quick  oven,  and 
serve  warm,  wrapped  in  napkins.  This  is  an  old  Southern 
"mammy's"  recipe.— [Mrs.  O.  W.  S.,  Wis. 

Rye  Gems 

^  To  1  cup  white  flour  add  1  cup  rye,  Vz  cup  sugar  and  1  cup 
sour  milk  in  which  1  level  teasp  soda  has  been  dissolved. 
Bake  in  hot,  well  greased  gem  pans,  in  a  hot  oven. — [Mrs.  W. 
L.  J.,  Vt. 

Ginger  Gems 

Cream  %  cup  sugar  with  %  cup  butter,  add  Vz  cup  molas- 
ses, Vz  cup  hot  water  and  2  cups  flour,  sifted  with  1  teasp  each 
ginger,  cinnamon,  soda  and  a  little  cloves.  Bake  in  gem  pans 
in  a  hot  oven. — [Mrs.  C.  E.  R.,  la. 

Oatmeal  Gems 

Soak  over  night  2  cups  rolled  oats  in  1  Vz  cups  sour  milk.  In 
the  morning  add  %  cup  molasses,  1  scant  teasp  soda  dissolved 


160        THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK 


in  a  little  cold  water,  1  level  teasp  salt,  2  well-beaten  eggs, 
and  1  cup  flour.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven.  These  gems  are  very 
good  without  the  eggs,  when  eggs  are  scarce. —  [Mrs.  C.  E.  A.» 
N.  H. 

Graham  Gems 

To  1  well-beaten  egg  add  1  pt  milk,  a  little  salt,  and  enough, 
graham  flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter  that  will  drop  from  a  spoon. 
Bake  in  hot  and  well  buttered  gem  pans,  in  a  hot  oven,  about 
20  minutes. —  [M.  B.,  111. 

Buttermilk  Gems 

To  1  cup  buttermilk  add  2  cups  sour  cream,  1  teasp  each  sail 
and  soda,  1  tablesp  sugar,  1  beaten  egg,  and  flour  enough  to 
make  a  stiff  batter  which  will  drop  from  a  spoon.  Bake  in  well 
greased  gem  pans  in  quick  oven. — [Mrs.  N.  F.,  Pa. 

Date  Gems 

To  1  pt  graham  flour  and  1  pt  white  flour  add  %  teasp  salt, 
1  level  teasp  soda,  ^^  cup  sugar,  1  cup  dates,  stoned  and  cut  in 
small  pieces,  and  lastly  enough  rich  buttermilk  to  make  a  stiff 
batter.  Drop  in  hot,  well  greased  gem  pans,  half  filling  each, 
and  bake  in  quick  oven  until  a  golden  brovv^n.  Raisins  may  be 
substituted  for  dates,  and  instead  of  making  a  stiff  batter,  less 
buttermilk  can  be  used,  the  dough  quickly  turned  out  on  a 
board,  rolled  l^  inch  thick,  cut  into  biscuits  and  brushed  with 
sweet  milk,  and  baked  in  a  baking  pan  in  a  quick  oven. — [E. 
F.  S.,  Cal. 

Com  Dodgers 

To  1  qt  cornmeal  add  a  little  salt,  1  tablesp  butter,  scald 
with  boiling  water,  and  boil  hard  for  a  minute  or  two,  then 
drop  the  batter  into  well  greased  gem  tins,  and  bake  in  a 
quick  oven. —  [A.  E.  H.,  Wash. 

Corn  Pone 

Dissolve  1  teasp  soda  in  1  pt  buttermilk,  add  scant  teasp  salt, 
1  tablesp  sugar  and  enough  cornmeal  mixed  with  a  little  flour 
to  make  a  medium  stiff  batter.  Lastly  add  2  tablesp  melted 
lard.     Bake  in  a  quick  oven. —  [N.  H.  G.,  O. 

Pop-Overs 

To  1  well-beaten  egg  add  1  cup  milk,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  sift 
in  a  little  at  a  time  1  heaping  cup  flour.  Beat  well  for  10  min- 
utes, and  bake  in  hot,  well  greased  irons.  Baking  powder  or 
soda  is  not  needed. — [Miss  E.  I.  B.,  Cal. 


THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK        161 

Graham  Pop-Overs 

To  2  well-beaten  eggs  add  2  cups  milk,  2  cups  graham  flour, 
1  cup  white  flour  and  ^  teasp  salt.  Beat  well,  half  fill  hot,  well 
greased  gem  pans  with  the  hatter,  and  bake  about  20  min- 
utes in  a  hot  oven. — [Mrs  J.  L.  T.,  N.  Y. 

Graham  Puffs 

Mix  1  cup  graham  flour  with  1  cup  pastry  flour  and  %  teasp 
salt,  add  slowly  2  cups  milk,  add  2  well-beaten  eggs,  beat 
again,  then  turn  at  once  into  hot  buttered  gem  pans,  filling 
each  about  %  full,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  about  30  minutes, 
—[Miss  E.  W.,  N.  H. 

Cornstarch  Puffs 

Cream  1  cup  sugar  with  Vz  cup  butter,  add  beaten  yolks  of 
4  eggs,  and  gradually  and  alternately  1  cup  cornstarch  with  the 
beaten  whites  of  the  eggs.  Mix  2  level  teasp  baking  powder 
with  the  cornstarch,  and  lastly  add  1  teasp  vanilla.  Bake  in 
well  greased  gem  pans  in  hot  oven.  This  recipe  makes  a  dozen 
puffs. —  [Mrs.  B.  S.,  W.  Va. 

Potato  Scones 

To  2  cups  mashed  potatoes  add  2  cups  flour,  2ozs  butter,  2 
level  teasp  baking  powder,  %  teasp  salt,  and  milk  enough  to 
make  a  dough  that  can  be  handled.  Roll  out  y^  inch  thick, 
cut  with  biscuit  cutter,  and  bake  in  quick  oven  about  15  min- 
utes.— [Mrs.  P.  A.  B.,  111. 

Oatmeal  Scones 

To  1  cup  oatmeal  flakes  add  %  cup  flour,  1  teasp  salt,  1% 
teasp  baking  powder,  1  cup  sweet  milk  and  1  well-beaten  egg. 
Bake  at  once  in  hot,  well  greased  gem  irons,  filling  them  half 
full.  It  will  take  about  Vo.  an  hour  in  a  quick  oven.  This 
recipe  makes  1  dozen  scones. —  [Mrs.  E.  E.  S.,  Pa. 

Johnny  Cake 

To  2  cups  cornmeal,  add  1  cup  wheat  flour,  I14  cups  sour 
milk,  y^  cup  sour  cream  in  which  dissolve  2  scant  teasp  soda, 
a  pinch  of  salt  and  %  cup  sugar. — [Mrs.  E.  McC,  N.  Y. 

Yeast  Buckwheat  Cakes 

When  the  cakes  are  first  started  they  should  be  set  in  the 
evening.     Use  1  qt  warm  water,  1  cake  yeast  and  buckwheat 


162  THE  ORANGE  JUDD   COOK  BOOK 

and  white  flour,  half  and  half,  enough  to  make  an  ordinary  bat- 
ter. Put  in  a  warm  place  to  rise,  and  in  the  morning  add  ^ 
teasp  soda  dissolved  in  a  little  warm  water.  After  the  cakes 
have  been  started  all  that  is  necessary  is  to  put  away  each 
morning  a  little  of  the  batter  to  use  in  the  evening  as  a  starter 
by  adding  a  little  warm  water  and  more  flour. — [Mrs.  E.  S.  W., 
Okla. 

Buttermilk  Buckwheat  Cakes 

Dissolve  1  level  teasp  soda  in  2  cups  buttermilk,  add  %  cup 
sweet  milk,  1  level  teasp  salt  and  then  stir  in  1  pt  buckwheat 
flour.  Beat  well  and  bake  immediately  in  hot  oven. — [Mrs.  W. 
K.,  la. 

Plain  Waffles 

To  1  cup  milk  add  1  well-beaten  egg,  2  teasp  melted  butter, 
and  1  cup  flour  sifted  with  1  teasp  baking  powder  and  a  little 
salt.  Bake  in  "piping  hot"  waflle  irons,  until  crisp  and  brown. 
Butter  while  hot  and  eat  with  honey. — [K.  A.  D.,  N.  D. 

Buttermilk  Waffles 

To  1  well-beaten  egg  add  a  little  salt,  V2  cup  thick  soup 
cream,  1  pt  buttermilk  (or  sour  milk  will  do),  and  1  level 
teasp  soda  sifted  with  flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff  batter.-*—. 
[H.  B.  H.,  N.  Y. 

Baked  Dumplings 

Mix  same  as  for  biscuit,  only  use  a  little  less  shortening,  roll 
thin,  mark  in  2-inch  squares,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven.  When 
done  break  where  marked,  and  serve  with  broth  or  soup  poured 
over  them. — [M.  E.  A.,  O. 

Boiled  Dumplings 

To  1  cup  boiling  water  add  1  pinch  salt  and  %  cup  butter, 
then  stir  in  1  cup  flour,  and  when  sufl&ciently  cooled  off  add  3 
eggs,  one  at  a  time,  stirring  vigorously.  Drop  by  tablespoons- 
ful  into  the  boiling  soup  and  cover  the  kettle  tightly. — [M.  H., 
Neb. 

Drop  Dumplings  I 

Sift  1  qt  flour  with  2  teasp  baking  powder  and  1  teasp  salt, 
and  then  stir  in  milk  to  make  a  stiff  batter  that  will  just  drop 
from  the  spoon.     Wet  a  tablesp  in  boiling  liquid  and  drop  the 


THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK        163 


batter  by  the  tablespoonful  into  tbe  soup  or  broth.  Be  sure  to 
wet  the  spoon  thoroughly  every  time,  so  the  batter  will  not 
stick  to  it.  Water  can  be  used  instead  of  milk,  in  which 
case  add  a  teasp  shortening.  Also  sour  milk  and  soda  can  be 
used  instead  of  sweet  milk  and  baking  powder. — [I.  Y.  E., 
Col. 

Drop  Dumplings  n 

To  1  well-beaten  egg  add  1  cup  water  and  1  teasp  baking 
powder  sifted  with  enough  flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter.  Drop 
by  spoonsful  into  boiling  soup  and  boil  about  15  or  20  minutes. 
- — [Mrs.  D.  D.,  la. 

Broth  Dumplings 

Sift  1  qt  floui  dud  a  pinch  of  salt  into  a  mixing  pan,  make 
a  hole  in  the  center,  and  pour  in  2  cups  hot  chicken  or  beef 
broth.  Stir  it  vigorously,  roll  thin,  cut  in  small  squares  and  add 
to  the  soup  or  broth,  allowing  them  to  boil  about  20  minutes. 
— [L.  L.  T.,  N.  D. 

Light  Bread  Dumplings 

When  moulding  the  bread  into  loaves,  mould  some  of  the 
dough  into  small  biscuits,  and  allow  a  half  hour  for  these  to 
rise.  In  a  granite  kettle  place  %  cup  butter  and  1  pt  water, 
and  let  this  come  to  a  boil,  then  put  in  the  light  biscuits, 
cover  tightly,  and  let  boil  about  20  minutes,  or  until  done. 
Serve  with  sweetened  milk  or  cream. — [Mrs.  R.  M.,  Ind. 

Liver  Dumplings 

Chop  1  lb  beef  liver  very  fine  (it  cannot  be  chopped  too 
fine),  and  reject  all  skins  and  fibres.  Add  to  this  chopped 
liver  2  beaten  eggs,  i/^  teasp  salt,  a  generous  sprinkle  of  ground 
allspice,  and  after  beating  all  thoroughly,  stir  in  2  large  cups 
flour.  Drop  by  tablespoonsful  into  the  boiling  soup  and  boil 
about  8  to  10  minutes. — [Mrs.  G.,  Wis. 

Meat  Dumplings 

Chop  very  fine  V2  lb  lean  pork  and  %  lb  beef,  add  2  ozs 
melted  butter,  and  the  yolks  of  2  eggs,  2  ozs  stale  bread  which 
was  soaked  in  water  and  squeezed  out,  also  a  little  salt  and  nut- 
meg, and  lastly  the  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs.  Mould  into 
small  dumplings,  and  drop  in  the  boiling  soup  and  boil  until 
done. — [A.  G.,  Mass. 


164  THE   ORANGE   JUDD   COOK  BOOK 


Egg  Dumplings 

About  1  hour  before  you  want  tlie  dumplings  ready  to 
serve,  beat  up  4  eggs  until  light  and  add  to  them  V2  pt  hot 
soup  broth  and  flavor  with  nutmeg,  salt,  and  a  little  finely 
chopped  parsley.  Pour  into  a  v/ell  buttered  vessel  and  stand 
this  into  another  vessel  filled  with  boiling  water.  Allow  the 
mixture  to  become  thick,  but  not  hard.  When  thick  drop  by 
the  spoonsful  into  hot  soup. — [A.  G.,  Mass. 

Potato  Dumplings 

Cream  a  piece  of  butter  about  the  size  of  a  small  ess,  add 
yolks  of  2  eggs,  a  saucerful  of  stale  bread,  grated,  a  saucerful 
cold  potatoes,  grated,  (the  potatoes  must  be  nice  and  dry), 
season  with  salt  and  nutmeg  and  lastly  add  the  beaten  whites 
of  the  eggs.  Mould  into  small  dumplings,  drop  into  the  boiling 
soup  and  boil  about  10  minutes. —  [A.  G.,  Mass. 

German  Bread  Dumplings 

Soak  a  stale  loaf  of  bread  (at  least  4  or  5  days  old)  in  water 
enough  to  cover  and  when  soft  squeeze  out  as  much  of  the 
water  as  possible  and  break  the  bread  up  into  crumbs.  Then 
add  2  well-beaten  eggs,  2  tablesp  shortening,  2  tablesp  flour, 
a  pinch  of  salt,  and  a  little  nutmeg.  Drop  by  the  tablespoonful 
into  salted,  boiling  water,  and  cook  about  5  minutes,  with 
the  kettle  uncovered.  These  are  very  good  to  serve  with 
roast  meat  and  gravy.  It  is  a  good  plan  to  first  boil  one  dump- 
ling and  experiment  with  it,  to  see  if  the  seasoning  is  just 
right,  or  if  there  is  enough  flour  to  hold  them  together. — [N. 
P.,  N.  H. 


If  you  have  trouble  to  get  the  biscuits  to  brown,  try  using 
very  shallow  baking  pans. —  [Mrs.  W.  H.  B.,  Cal. 

Twin  biscuits  are  nice  for  a  change.  Roll  out  thin,  cut,  and 
put  together  in  pairs,  with  melted  butter  between. — [Mrs.  A. 
W.,  N.  Y. 

Baking  powder  makes  just  as  nice  biscuits  with  sour  milk  as 
with  sweet,  in  fact  I  think  the  sour  milk  and  baking  powder 
biscuits  are  usually  more  tender. —  [Mrs.  J.  E.  W.,  Kan. 

Instead  of  working  the  shortening  into  the  biscuit  dough,  I 
have  found  this  to  be  a  quicker  way:  Before  putting  the  bis- 
cuits in  the  oven  make  a  dent  in  each  with  a  knife,  and  put  a 
little  piece  of  butter  in  each. —  [Mrs.  A.  P.  H.,  N.  Y. 


Bread,  Rolls,  Buns  and  Toast 

"Back  of  the  loaf  is  the  snowy  flour, 

And  back  of  the  flour,  the  mill. 
Back  of  the  mill  is  the  wheat  and  the  shower 

And  the  sun,  and  the  Father's  will." 

N  the  culinary  line  there  is  nothing-  more 
important  than  to  know  how  to  prepare  and 
bake  good,  wholesome  bread — "the  staff  of 
life."  The  dry,  tasteless  composition  mis- 
called bread  by  some  anxious-to-get-rich- 
quick  professional  bakers,  and  by  don't-know- 
how  housewives,  is  calculated  to  make  one  place  undue 
emphasis  on  the  old  saying  that  ''man  cannot  live  on  bread 
alone."  As  a  matter  of  fact,  such  stuff  is  not  only 
unpalatable,  but  also  lacks  the  nutritive  elements  bread  ought 
to  have,  being  made  of  poor  flour  and  deprived  of  what- 
ever little  good  there  may  have  been  in  the  flour  by 
ignorant  or  careless  handling  and  baking.  And  yet,  really 
good,  wholesome,  nutritious  and  palatable  bread  is  not 
expensive  nor  difficult  to  make.  On  the  contrary,  the  art 
can  be  easily  learned  by  any  one  who  is  willing  and  anxious 
to  learn,  be  she  a  wholly  inexperienced  beginner  or  a  dis- 
couraged amateur,  desirous  of  improving.  That  our  farm 
cooks  know  how  to  bake  bread  is  fully  attested  by  the  fol- 
lowing delightful  variety  of  recipes: 

The  Ingredients   of  Bread 

Four  of  the  simplest  ingredients  in  the  culinary  laboratory 
enter  into  the  composition  of  a  loaf  of  bread;  yet  the  changes 
through  which  these  materials  pass  before  a  finished  loaf  is 
evolved  are  the  most  complicated  in  all  cookery.  The  four 
ingredients  that  enter  into  a  loaf  of  bread  are  flour,  yeast, 
salt  and  liquid.  Milk  or  water,  or  a  part  of  each,  may  com- 
prise the  latter.  Bread  made  with  milk  is  more  nutritious, 
but  it  dries  more  quickly  than  does  bread  in  which  water  is 
used.  The  texture  of  milk  bread,  even  with  slight  kneading, 
is  velvelty  and  pleasing.  Half  milk  and  half  water  is  quite 
generally  used.     Water  bread,   without  shortening,   carefully 

165 


166  THE  ORANGE   JUDD   COOK  BOOK 


manipulated,  gives  a  loaf  of  nutty  flavor,  but  with  tough  crust. 
"Water,  with  two  tablespoons  shortening  to  the  pint,  is  more 
generally  preferred  by  American  housekeepers.  Opinions 
differ  as  to  just  what  properties  good  bread  should  possess. 
Some  wish  a  moist  crumb  and  tender  crust,  others  a  dry  crumb 
and  a  flinty  crust.  But  there  are  certain  points  upon  which 
all  agree;  namely,  bread  should  be  agreeable  in  smell  and 
taste,  while  it  should  be  light  and  porous,  and  the  loaf  should 
keep  in  good  condition  several  days. —  [J.  McK.  H. 

About  the  Flour 

The  prime  requisite  for  good  bread  is  good  flour.  Without 
good  flour  the  best  cook  cannot  possibly  make  good  bread. 
Obviously,  it  is  poor  economy  to  buy  the  poorer  grades  of 
flour,  and  if  your  local  dealer  cannot  or  will  not  furnish  you 
with  the  best,  send  an  order  to  the  nearest  town  or  city,  and 
insist  upon  getting  the  right  kind.  Flour  made  from  inferior 
wheat  or  wheat  that  has  been  exposed  to  moisture  produces  a 
heavy,  moist  bread,  which  moulds  quickly. 

To  test  bread  flour,  according  to  Mrs.  Rorer,  make  a  small 
ball  of  dough  from  flour  and  water,  knead  well,  as  for  bread, 
and  then  quickly  break  the  ball  or  biscuit  in  half.  It  should- 
break  with  a  crack,  but  if  it  is  poor  flour  it  will  first  pull  and! 
stretch  and  finally  break  without  a  sound.  Another  test  is  toj 
take  a  handful  of  flour,  close  the  hand  tightly,  then  open  it,i 
and  if  the  flour  falls  apart  and  does  not  pack,  it  is  good  forj 
bread  or  biscuits.  The  color  should  be  a  rich,  creamy  tint — ■■' 
blue-white  or  greyish  tints  indicate  poor,  cheap  flour. 

Pastry  flour  should  never  be  used  for  bread,  biscuits  or| 
mufiins,  but  only  for  fine  pastry,  cakes  and  similar  light  mix- 
tures that  do  not  require  kneading.  Genuine  pastry  flour  is 
a  pale,  yellowish  white,  fine  and  starchy,  and  will  easily  retain 
the  form  of  the  hand  upon  pressure.  It  is  usually  sold  in  smalli 
boxes  or  bags,  but  very  seldom,  if  ever,  in  bulk,  to  retailers.j 
The  only  permissible  substitute  for  genuine  pastry  flour,  when 
that  cannot  be  obtained,  is  a  soft,  winter-wheat  flour. 

Whole  wheat  flour  is  of  a  dark,  brown  color,  rather  coarse, 
and  should  be  free  from  bran,  which  is  the  outside  coat  of  the 
wheat.  All  the  other  nutritive  parts  of  the  wheat  grain  are 
retained  in  the  whole  wheat  flour,  while  only  the  inner  por-^ 
tions  are  used  for  the  fine  white  flour,  which  lacks  many  of, 
the  more  nutritious  elements.  Bread  made  from  whole  wheat 
flour  is  considered  by  physicians  to  be  the  best  diet  for  young! 
and  old — especially  those  suffering  from  weak  digestion,  for, 
nursing  mothers  and  for  those  inclined  to  be  anaemic,  espe-| 
cially  children  inclined  to  rickets,  and  those  whose  teeth  showj 
signs  of  early  decay,  as  whole  wheat  is  rich  in  alkaline  phos-j 
phates. 


THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK        167 

Again,  according  to  Mrs.  Rorer,  most  graham  flour  sold  in 
«kur  markets  is  composed  of  a  little  white  flour  and  a  goodly 
quantity  of  bran,  mixed  with  a  certain  proportion  of  "shorts" 
or  "middlings."  These  particles  being  indestructible,  graham 
bread  therefore  cannot  be  recommended  very  highly  for  steady 
consumption. 

Experienced  housewives  know  that  flour  varies  in  its 
capacity  to  absorb  moisture,  and  that  therefore  no  recipe  can 
indicate  exactly  the  necessary  amount  of  flour  to  be  used.  A 
little  practice,  perseverance  and  common  sense  will  soon  teach 
ambitious  beginners  the  methods  which  will  produce  best 
results. 

About  Kneading  Bread  Dongh 

Stir  sufficient  flour  into  the  sponge  to  make  a  dough  that 
may  be  turned  on  to  a  board  sprinkled  with  flour;  then  flour 
the  hands.  Draw  the  dough  farthest  from  you  over  into  the 
center  several  times,  and  then  turn  the  whole  mass  half 
around.  Draw  it  again  from  the  opposite  side  toward  the 
center;  and  press  it  down  either  with  the  fingers  or  the  ball 
of  the  hand,  then  half  turn  again,  and  repeat  this,  with  a  sort 
of  rocking  motion,  until  the  dough  has  been  thoroughly  and 
evenly  kneaded.  This  will  take  at  least  15  minutes.  At  first 
you  must  add  flour,  just  a  little  at  a  time;  but  after  the  dough 
has  lost  its  stickiness,  knead  it  on  a  dry  board.  When  it 
ceases  to  stick  on  pressure,  the  kneading  may  be  discontinued. 
—  [Mrs.  S.  T.  Rorer. 

When  the  bread  dough  becomes  elastic  and  loses  its  stick- 
iness, it  has  been  kneaded  sufficiently  long  and  is  ready  for  its 
first  raising.  Kneading  is  really  the  most  important  part  of 
bread  making.  In  most  households,  the  hands  are  used  for 
this  purpose.  Good  and  inexpensive  bread  mixers  can  now 
be  had  which  save  three-quarters  of  the  labor  in  bread  mak- 
ing.— [A,  G.,  Mass. 

Good  Bread  Without  Kneading 

I  find  that  the  chief  secret  of  good  bread  is  mixing  the  dough 
softe  Use  any  favorite  bread  recipe,  but  use  more  wetting. 
Mix  it  so  soft  that  you  can  easily  beat  it  with  a  strong  spoon — 
so  soft  that  you  cannot  handle  the  dough  except  with  well 
floured  hands,  and  so  soft  that  you  cannot  shape  it  into  round 
loaves.  I  mix  bread  in  a  large  granite-ware  pail,  cover  with  a 
tin  cover,  and  wrap  the  whole  thing  snugly  in  an  old  com- 
forter, set  it  on  top  of  a  high  stool,  which  in  turn  I  place  upon 
the  top  of  a  chair,  and  put  all  in  a  warm  corner  of  the  room. 
This  arrangement  keeps  the  draughts  off,  and  as  the  upper  lay- 
ers of  air  in  the  room  are  the  warmest  it  secures  for  the  bread 
a  uniform  degree  of  v/armth  throughout  the  whole  process  of 
fermentation.     This  is  not  always  easy  to  get,  particularly  in 


168        THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK 


winter.  In  the  morning  I  turn  the  dough  into  nicely  buttered 
bread  tins,  smear  the  top  with  melted  butter,  and  let  stand 
until  it  is  double  in  bulk.  Have  the  oven  pretty  hot  for  the  first 
20  or  30  minutes,  and  then  reduce  the  heat  somewhat.  This 
gives  a  deliciously  crisp  crust. — [Mrs.  W.  J.  T.,  Vt. 

About  the  Baking 

The  baking  of  the  bread  is  of  the  greatest  importance,  as  the 
yeast  plant  must  during  the  baking  process  be  thoroughly 
killed.  Otherwise  it  is  capable  of  setting  up  fermentation  in 
the  stomach.  If  the  oven  is  too  hot  and  the  loaves  large,  the 
crust  surrounding  will  prevent  the  heat  from  penetrating  to 
the  center  of  the  loaf.  Such  bread  is  very  unwholesome.  There 
are  several  ways  of  testing  the  oven  without  a  thermometer. 
The  old-fashioned  baker's  method  was  to  throw  flour  on  the 
floor  of  the  oven  and  if  it  browned  up  after  3  minutes  without 
taking  fire,  the  oven  was  sufficiently  heated.  The  ordinary 
cook  will  hold  her  hand  in  the  oven  while  she  slowly  counts 
twenty.  If  you  have  an  indicator  on  your  oven,  the  hand 
should  register  8.  When  the  bread  is  done,  it  should  immedi- 
ately be  removed  from  the  pans  and  tipped  up  so  that  the  air 
may  circulate  freely  around  each  loaf.  Do  not  cover  the 
bread  even  with  a  light  cloth,  as  in  this  way  the  moisture  is 
held,  destroying  the  crispness  of  the  crust,  and  making  the 
center  rather  heavy. — [Mrs.  S.  T.  R. 

To  Make  Yeast  Without  Yeast 

On  Monday  morning  boil  2  ozs  hops  in  4  qts  water  %  hour, 
strain,  and  when  the  liquor  is  lukewarm  add  a  small  handful 
salt  and  V2  lb  brown  sugar.  Mix  V2  lb  flour  to  a  smooth  paste 
with  some  of  the  liquor  and  then  mix  all  well  together  and  let 
stand  till  Wednesday,  then  add  3  lbs  raw  potatoes,  grated, 
mix  well  and  let  stand  till  Thursday.  It  should  be  stirred 
frequently  and  stand  in  a  warm  place.  When  baking  bread 
you  will  find  that  it  will  not  require  more  than  Vz  of  this 
yeast  as  compared  to  other  yeast. — [Mrs.  N.  E.  W.,  Mo. 

Fresh  Yeast 

To  4  large  tablesp  hot  mashed  potatoes  add  ^/^  teasp  salt, 
1  teasp  sugar,  and  hot  water  enough  to  make  a  thin  batter. 
When  lukewarm,  add  1  cake  compressed  yeast,  thoroughly  dis- 
solved in  a  little  lukewarm  water.  Stir  well  and  set  in  a  warm 
place  to  rise  over  night.  I  always  make  yeast  fresh  the  day 
before  I  bake  bread.  This  insures  sweet,  delicious  bread,  with 
no  sour  taste. — [L.  M.,  N.  Y. 


THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK        169^ 


Perpetual  Yeast 

Dissolve  1  cake  compressed  yeast  in  1  pt  lukewarm  unsalted 
water  in  which  potatoes  were  boiled.  Mix  well,  add  %  cup 
sugar,  stir  thoroughly,  pour  into  a  2-Qt  glass  jar,  cover  loosely, 
a,nd  then  let  stand  in  a  warm  place  over  night.  Next  morning 
it  will  be  a  foaming  mass.  Put  the  rubber  on  the  can,  screw 
the  cover  down  tight  and  set  away  in  a  cool  place.  When 
ready  to  make  bread,  pour  into  the  can  of  yeast  foam  prepared 
as  above,  1  pt  lukewarm  water  in  which  potatoes  were  cooked, 
mix  well,  and  then  stir  in  i^  cup  sugar.  Let  the  can  stand 
open  in  a  warm  place  about  5  hours,  or  until  the  contents  are 
very  light  and  foamy.  Then  stir  it  down  and  use  1  pt  of  the 
mixture  for  raising  four  loaves  of  bread.  Put  the  rubber  and 
cover  on  the  jar  again  and  keep  in  a  cool  place.  Some  of  this 
yeast  may  be  used  once  or  twice  a  week,  or  every  night,  by 
adding  fresh  potato  water  and  sugar  as  described  above. — 
[Mrs.  C.  E.  A.,  N.  H. 

Potato  Yeast 

To  1  qt  hot,  unsalted,  mashed  potatoes,  add  1  qt  hot  un- 
salted water  in  which  the  potatoes  were  boiled,  and  a  paste 
made  of  3  tablesp  flour  and  a  little  cold  water.  Beat  well,  and 
then  add  3  tablesp  sugar,  2  tablesp  salt  and  1  pt  cold  water. 
When  this  mixture  is  lukewarm,  add  1  cake  compressed  yeast, 
thoroughly  dissolved  in  a  little  lukewarm  water.  Let  stand 
in  a  warm  place  until  light,  and  when  light,  use  as  much  of 
this  yeast  as  you  have  water — 1  qt  yeast  and  1  qt  water  with 
flour  enough  to  knead  to  the  proper  consistency  will  make 
about  five  or  six  loaves  of  bread. — [Mrs.  J.  B.,  Kan. 

Raw  Potato  Yeast 

Peel  and  grate  5  medium  sized  raw  potatoes,  put  in  a  gal 
crock  and  add  V2  cup  each  salt  and  sugar,  and  stir  it  well, 
then  pour  in  boiling  water,  stirring  constantly  until  the  mix- 
ture thickens.  Stir  or  beat  with  a  spoon  occasionally  while 
allowing  it  to  cool,  and  when  lukewarm  add  %  pt  old  yeast 
or  %  cake  compressed  yeast  dissolved  in  a  little  lukewarm 
water.  Set  away  in  a  warm  place  until  light. — [Mrs.  D.  L.  A., 
Ore. 

Hop  and  Raw  Potato  Yeast 

Boil  a  handful  of  hops  in  1  qt  water,  then  strain,  pour  the 
liquid  in  a  jar  and  add  to  it  1  cup  sugar,  %  cup  salt,  1  level 
tablesp  ginger  and  8  medium  sized  raw  potatoes,  grated.  Mix 
well,  and  when  lukewarm,  add  2  cakes  compressed  yeast,  thor- 
oughly dissolved  in  a  little  lukewarm  water.     Cover  and  let 


170        THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK 

stand  in  a  warm  place  till  light,  then  seal  and  keep  in  a  cool 
place.  One  cup  of  this  will  be  plenty  for  three  loaves  of  bread. 
Shake  the  jar  well  before  using  this  yeast.— [Mrs.  B.  B.  G., 
Mass. 

Buttermilk  Yeast  Cakes 

Scald  1  qt  fresh  buttermilk  but  do  not  let  it  boil,  and  while 
it  is  scalding  hot  sift  in  about  1 V2  qts  white  corn  meal  mixed 
with  1  teasp  salt.  Stir  vigorously,  and  when  the  mixture  is 
lukewarm  stir  in  1  cake  compressed  yeast,  dissolved  in  a  little 
lukewarm  water.  Set  away  in  a  warm  place  to  rise,  and  when 
the  mixture  has  become  very  light,  stir  it  down  again.  Do 
this  three  times  and  then  add  more  corn  meal  and  flour  suffi- 
cient to  make  the  mass  stiff  enough  so  it  will  stick  together  and 
can  be  easily  handled.  Form  into  small  cakes  and  let  them 
dry.— [L.  M.,  N.  Y. 

Tanzy  Yeast 

Boil  together  in  1  pt  water,  1  large  potato,  and  about  10 
tanzy  leaves.  When  the  potato  is  soft,  skim  out  the  tanzy 
leaves,  mash  the  potato  fine  and  when  lukewarm  stir  in  2 
tablesp  flour  and  1  cake  compressed  yeast,  dissolved  in  a  lit- 
tle lukewarm  water,  1  tablesp  sugar  and  1  teasp  salt.  Set 
away  in  a  warm  place  until  light  and  foamy,  then  stir  in  about 
IVz  pts  white  corn  meal.  It  should  be  quite  stiff.  Roll  out  on 
a  well  floured  board,  about  1/2  inch  thick,  cut  in  1-inch 
squares,  and  dry.  Store  in  sealed  paper  bags  and  hang  in  a 
cool  place.  Use  one  of  these  cakes  for  three  loaves  of  bread.— 
[Mrs.  M.  McC,  Kan. 

Jug  Yeast 

"Wash  and  peel  6  medium  sized  potatoes,  cut  into  quarters 
and  boil  until  soft.  While  the  potatoes  are  cooking,  steep  a 
handful  of  hops  in  1  pt  water.  When  the  potatoes  are  well 
done,  mash  them  fine,  sift  over  them  1  pt  flour,  add  %  pt 
sugar  and  scant  i^  pt  salt.  Mix  well  and  then  pour  over  this 
the  hot  water  in  which  the  potatoes  were  cooked  and  the 
strained  water  in  which  the  hops  were  steeped,  and  beat  all 
well  together  until  smooth.  Then  add  enough  water  to  make 
I  gal  in  all.  When  lukewarm  add  2  cakes  compressed  yeast, 
thoroughly  dissolved  in  a  little  lukewarm  water.  Stir  well  and 
set  away  in  a  warm  place  until  it  ferments  and  is  light,  then 
pour  in  a  jug,  cork  tightly,  and  keep  in  cool  place.  Use  about 
V2  pt  of  this  yeast  for  a  baking  of  bread.— [Mrs.  H.  C.  H., 
Col. 


THE   ORANGE  JUDD   COOK  BOOK  171 


Homemade  Baking  Powder 

To  1  lb  and  2  ozs  cream  tartar  add  ^^  lb  bi-carbonate  of 
soda  and  %  lb  fine  cornstarch.  Mix  well  and  sift  through 
a  very  fine  sieve  at  least  six  times  to  be  sure  that  the  ingredi- 
ents are  evenly  distributed.  All  the  ingredients  must  be  dry, 
and  the  baking  powder  should  be  kept  in  a  close  tin,  and  set 
away  in  a  dry  place.  Weigh  the  ingredients  exactly,  accord- 
ing to  the  above  given  quantities.  Too  much  soda  will  cause 
yellow  or  brown  spots  to  appear  in  the  batters  where  this  bak- 
ing powder  is  used,  and  besides  being  unpalatable,  when  too 
much  soda  is  used  it  hinders  digestion. — [A.  G.,  Mass. 

White  Bread 

At  noon,  when  the  potatoes  are  cooked  for  dinner,  select 
3  about  the  size  of  an  egg,  mash  very  fine,  add  1  level  tablesp 
salt,  2  of  sugar  and  3  of  flour.  Mix  all  well  together,  then 
add  scant  %  cup  boiling  water,  stirring  vigorously,  and  when 
lukewarm  add  %  cake  compressed  yeast  dissolved  in  a  little 
lukewarm  water.  Stir  the  mixture  well,  cover  and  let  stand 
in  a  warm  place.  In  the  evening  scald  2  cups  sweet  milk, 
pour  it  into  the  mixing  pan,  add  2  cups  cold  water,  and  when 
lukewarm  add  the  light  yeast  mixture,  and  mix  stiff  with  warm 
flour.  Turn  out  on  the  bread  board  and  mould  into  a  large 
loaf,  kneading  about  10  or  15  minutes;  then  return  to  the  mix- 
ing bowl,  cover,  and  set  in  a  warm  place  over  night.  In  the 
morning  knead  it  down  and  divide  into  three  loaves.  Put  into 
greased  tins,  and  set  in  a  warm  place  to  rise  until  they  have 
doubled  in  bulk.  Bake  one  hour  in  a  moderately  hot  oven. — 
[Mrs.  B.  G.,  N.  Y. 

Yeast  Bread  (Compressed  Yeast) 

At  noon  pour  1  qt  water  from  the  boiled  potatoes  over  1 
cup  granulated  sugar  and  let  stand  till  lukewarm,  then  add  1 
compressed  yeast  cake,  stir  well,  cover,  and  set  in  a  warm  place 
until  next  morning.  Put  2  qts  warm  sifted  bread  flour  in  the 
mixing  pan,  make  a  hole  in  the  middle,  put  in  V2  cup  sugar,  a 
little  salt,  and  a  small  piece  of  lard,  then  add  1  pt  yeast  as 
prepared  above,  and  1  qt  lukewarm  water.  Stir  well,  cover 
and  set  in  a  warm  place  to  rise.  When  light  and  foamy,  mix 
stiff,  adding  more  flour  if  necessary,  and  knead  from  5  to  15 
minutes  or  longer.  Let  rise  again,  and  when  light  shape  into 
small  loaves,  but  do  not  add  any  more  flour.  Place  in  dripping 
pans  so  the  loaves  just  touch,  brush  with  melted  lard,  and  set 
to  rise  in  a  warm  place.  When  light,  but  not  too  light  (it 
should  be  no  more  than  double  in  bulk),  bake  in  a  hot  oven 
about  50  minutes.  When  done,  take  out,  brush  over  with 
melted  butter,  cover  with  a  light  clean  cloth  and  let  cool. 
Keep  the  balance  of  the  prepared  yeast  in  a  jar  in  a  cool  place« 


172  THE   ORANGE   JUDD   COOK  BOOK 


and  the  next  time,  the  day  before  you  wish  to  bake,  start  the 
yeast  as  before,  only  use  the  remaining  prepared  yeast,  instead 
of  the  compressed. — [Mrs.  E.  McC,  N.  Y. 

White  Bread  (Perpetual  Yeast) 

For  four  loaves  bread  use  3  qts  flour,  1  scant  qt  lukewarm 
water,  1  tablesp  salt  and  1  pt  perpetual  yeast.  (See  perpetual 
yeast  recipe.)  Knead  the  dough  until  thoroughly  mixed,  rub 
the  outside  of  the  mass  with  a  tablesp  lard,  or  lard  and  butter, 
put  in  a  bowl,  cover,  and  set  in  a  warm  place  to  rise  over  night. 
Next  morning  mould  into  loaves,  let  stand  in  a  warm  place  1 
hour,  and  when  light  bake  1  hour  in  a  hot  oven. — [Mrs.  C.  B. 
A.,  N.  H. 

Potato  Yeast  Bread 

Sift  3  qts  warm  flour  in  a  warm  mixing  bowl  with  1  tablesp 
salt,  %  tablesp  sugar  and  Vz  tablesp  lard,  then  add  1  pt  potato 
yeast,  and  3  pts  lukewarm  water.  Knead  thoroughly,  set  in  a 
warm  place,  and  let  rise  over  night.  Next  morning  mould  into 
loaves,  set  in  a  warm  place  until  it  has  doubled  in  bulk,  and 
then  bake. —  [Mrs.  D.  L.  A.,  Ore. 

Hop  Yeast  Bread 

After  tea  time  make  a  thin  sponge  with  warm  flour,  3  pts 
warm  water  and  1  cup  hop  yeast.  Cover  and  let  stand  2  hours 
in  a  warm  place  until  light;  then  knead  into  a  loaf,  cover,  and 
let  stand  in  a  warm  place  over  night.  In  the  morning  mould 
into  three  loaves,  let  rise,  and  when  light  bake  1  hour.  Have  the 
oven  quite  hot  when  the  loaves  are  first  put  in,  and  gradually 
moderate  the  heat. — [M.  D.,  O. 

About  "Salt  Rising"  or  "Emptyings" 

This  sponge  or  leavening  is  made  by  fermenting  flour  and 
water  or  milk  without  the  addition  of  ordinary  yeast.  The  true 
conditions  of  this  fermentation  are  not  exactly  known.  Judg- 
ing from  the  odor  produced,  bacteria  play  an  important  part 
in  the  "fermentation."  Then,  too,  the  wild  yeast  plants  of  the 
air  find  this  an  exceedingly  good  resting  place,  and  grow  with 
great  rapidity.  Whether  or  not  this  bread  is  wholesome,  is  an 
open  question.  We  know  this,  that  in  a  perfectly  clean  room 
(and  by  this  we  mean  a  room  surgically  clean,  one  free  as  nearly 
as  possible  from  all  germ  contaminations)  it  is  almost  impossi- 
ble to  make  good  "emptyings."  Carry  the  basin  from  this  room 
to  one  where  the  floor  is  covered  with  carpet,  especially  if  the 
carpet  has  not  been  carefully  cleaned  or  shaken  recently,  and 
almost  immediately  you  will  have  a  pitcher  full  of  foaming 
''emptyings."  We  fully  realize  that  many  persons  have  eaten 
bread  made  after  this  method  for  years,  and  are,  perhaps,  in 
fairly  good  health.  The  question  is,  then,  what  would  they  have 


THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK        173 

been  if,  instead,  they  had  always  used  good  bread?  The  effect 
of  heat  upon  bread  greatly  influences  its  digestibility.  "Salt 
rising"  bread  will  not  bake  as  easily  or  quickly  as  that  made 
with  yeast.  The  crust  is  always  light  and  soft,  and  the  crumb 
moist;  seeming  to  hold  much  more  water  than  other  breads. 
This  sponge,  made  from  the  wild  yeast  floating  in  the  air,  and 
unwholesome  yeasts  used  in  bread  making,  are  the  frequent 
causes  of  indigestion.  This  bread  then  should  be  used  but 
sparingly,  if  at  all. — [Mrs.  S.  T.  Rorer. 

Salt  Rising  Bread  I 

To  1  small  cup  new  milk  add  1  scant  cup  boiling  water,  and 
stir  into  this  1  large  cup  white  corn  meal,  and  enough  flour  to 
make  as  thick  as  cake  batter,  1  tablesp  sugar,  y^  teasp  salt, 
and  a  small  pinch  of  soda.  Set  away  in  a  moderately  warm 
place  over  night.  In  the  morning  it  will  be  light.  Stir  in  a 
little  warm  water  and  a  little  flour  to  make  of  the  proper  con- 
sistency, and  then  set  the  mixing  bowl  in  a  vessel  of  warm 
water  over  the  back  of  the  stove,  and  by  the  time  breakfast  is 
over  it  will  probably  have  risen  to  the  top  of  the  tin,  or  be 
thoroughly  light.  Next  sift  into  a  bread  mixing  pan  enough 
flour  for  a  large  loaf  (about  1  qt  or  more),  .add  a  little  lard, 
salt  and  sugar,  and  mix  up  with  the  foamy  "rising,"  using  a 
little  warm  water  if  more  wetting  is  needed.  Knead  well,  shape 
into  loaves,  put  in  well  greased  pans,  and  set  in  a  warm  place 
to  rise.  When  light  bake  in  a  not  too  hot  oven.  I  have  used 
this  recipe  for  15  years,  and  it  has  never  failed  me.  I  usually 
use  a  quart  fruit  can  to  prepare  the  "rising." — [E.  A.  E.,  N.  C. 

Salt  Rising  Bread  II 

Put  into  a  qt  pitcher  or  jar  1  pt  boiling  water,  1  teasp 
su:?ar,  and  %  teasp  each  soda  and  salt.  When  cool  enough  to 
bear  your  hand  in  it,  add  flour  to  make  a  thick  batter,  beat 
well,  and  put  the  jar  or  pitcher  m  a  vessel  filled  with  hot  water 
but  not  hot  enough  to  scald  the  mixture.  Keep  up  a  uniform 
temperature  until  the  "rising"  Is  light.  If  set  early  in  the 
morning,  it  will  be  ready  just  before  noon  to  make  sponge. 
Add  1  qt  Y/arm  milk  and  flour  to  make  a  sponge.  Set  in  a 
warm  place  and  when  light  make  into  loaves  and  let  them  rise 
again.  Care  should  be  taken  not  to  let  them  rise  too  long,  or 
the  bread  will  be  dry  and  tasteless. —  [Mrs.  J.  A.  W.,  Mo. 

Directions  for  Steaming  Bread 

For  moulds,  if  you  do  not  have  the  boughten  ones,  use  1-Ib 
baking  powder  cans,  or  cottolene  cans,  or  small  lard  pails,  with 
covers  to  fit  snugly.  Butter  the  inside  of  the  moulds  well,  and 
also  the  inside  of  the  covers.  Pill  the  moulds  no  more  than 
two-thirds  full,  to  allow  space  for  swelling.     If  you  do  not  own 


174  THE   ORANGE  JUDD   COOK  BOOK 


a  "steamer,"  it  is  a  good  plan  to  set  the  covered  mould  inside 
of  a  larger  vessel  with  a  thin  little  piece  of  wood  in  the  bottom, 
and  fill  the  outside  vessel  with  boiling  water  to  within  an  inch 
of  the  top  of  the  mould,  but  no  more,  as  otherwise  the  water 
would  leak  into  the  mould  while  boiling.  Cover  the  outside 
vessel  securely,  and  boil  steadily  for  the  length  of  time  the 
recipe  calls  for.  It  is  important  that  the  water  should  not  stop 
boiling  until  the  bread  is  done,  otherwise  the  bread  will  be 
soggy.  Have  a  kettle  of  hot  boiling  water  always  in  readiness, 
and  if  necessary  add  a  little  water  to  the  steaming  vessel,  if  the 
water  in  it  boils  away  too  much.  When  done  remove  the  cover 
from  the  mould,  and  put  the  bread  in  the  oven  about  5  or  10 
minutes,  to  dry  and  brown. —  [A.  G.,  Mass. 

Entire   Wheat   Bread 

Sift  2  %  cups  entire  wheat  flour  with  1  scant  teasp  soda  and 
^2  teasp  salt,  add  1  cup  buttermilk.  Mix  well,  then  turn  into 
greased  pans  and  bake  Vz  hour.  If  liked  1  or  2  tablesp  sugar 
may  be  added. —  [J.  B.  J.,  O. 

Baked  Graham  Bread 

To  Vz  cup  molasses  or  scant  %  cup  brown  sugar  add  V2  cup 
each  white  flour  and  corn  meal,  2  cups  each  graham  flour  and 
sour  milk,  and  1  teasp  soda  dissolved  in  a  little  warm  water, 
added  last.  Bake  in  1-lb  baking  powder  cans,  about  %  hour. 
^— [Mrs.  B.  W.  A.,  Cal. 

Steamed  Graham  Bread 

To  1  %  cups  graham  flour  add  1  cup  wheat  flour,  Vz  cup  corn 
meal,  1  teasp  baking  powder,  V2  cup  sugar,  1  egg,  2  tablesp 
butter,  1  cup  each  sweet  milk  and  buttermilk  in  which  dissolve 
1  teasp  soda,  l^^  cups  molasses,  and  a  pinch  salt.  Steam  2 
hours,  then  bake  20  minutes. —  [Mrs.  E.  V.,  N.  Y. 

Baised  Graham  Bread  I 

Early  in  the  morning  scald  1  pt  fresh  milk,  and  while  hot 
add  1  teasp  butter  or  lard,  and  small  pinch  soda.  When  luke- 
warm add  1  cake  compressed  yeast  dissolved  in  a  little  luke- 
warm water.  Mix  well,  then  add  1  qt  graham  flour,  1  pt 
wheat  flour,  Vz  cup  sugar,  and  1  teasp  salt.  The  ingredients 
should  all  be  lukewarm.  Mix  well,  and  if  there  is  not  quite 
enough  wetting,  add  a  little  more  lukewarm  water.  Cover, 
and  set  in  a  warm  place  to  rise.  When  light  (which  ought  to 
be  in  a  few  hours)  divide  into  two  loaves,  mould  on  a  well 
floured  board,  just  enough  to  shape  them  into  loaves.  Put  in 
greased  tins,  cover  with  a  cloth,  and  set  in  a  warm  place  to 
rise  again.     When  light,  bake  about  1  hour,  and  when  done» 


THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK        175 


remove  from  the  tins  immediately  and  place  on  a  clean  cloth 
until  cold. —  [Mrs.  A.  C,  Mass. 

Raised  Graham  Bread  U 

To  1  pt  light  bread  sponge  add  1  pt  lukewarm  water,  and 
then  stir  in  1  qt  graham  flour,  a  little  salt,  and  Vz  cup  sugar. 
Knead  to  the  proper  consistency  with  white  flour,  and  let  rise 
the  same  as  white  bread.  This  will  make  two  loaves. — [Mrs. 
J.  W.  M.,  Pa. 

Rye  Bread 

Sift  and  mix  together  1  %  qts  rye  meal,  Vz  qt  white  flour,  1 
level  tablesp  salt,  and  ^^  tablesp  caraway  seed.  Make  a  hollow 
in  center  of  flour  and  pour  in  1  cake  fresh  compressed  yeast 
dissolved  in  1  qt  lukewarm  milk  and  water  mixed,  and  1  level 
tablesp  melted  lard.  Stir  in  a  little  bit  of  the  surrounding 
flour  to  make  a  soft  sponge,  cover,  and  set  in  a  warm  place  to 
rise.  At  the  end  of  1  or  2  hours  it  will  be  light.  Then  work 
into  the  sponge  the  rest  of  the  surrounding  flour,  using  a  big 
wooden  spoon,  and  work  about  10  minutes,  then  cover  and 
again  put  away  in  a  warm  place  to  rise,  which  will  take  from  2 
to  3  hours,  when  it  should  double  in  bulk.  Turn  out  on  mix- 
ing board,  sprinkle  with  white  flour,  and  knead  into  loaves, 
kneading  each  loaf  about  10  minutes.  Put  each  loaf  into 
greased  pans,  cover  with  a  clean  cloth,  and  let  rise  again. 
When  light  put  into  a  moderately  hot  oven  and  turn  bread 
every  10  minutes  for  the  first  %  hour  (three  times),  so  that  it 
will  raise  even.  After  the  first  V2  hour  increase  the  heat  some. 
After  the  loaves  have  baked  1  hour,  take  them  out  of  the  pans 
and  put  them  on  the  bare  oven  shelves,  and  bake  Vz  hour 
longer.  This  v/ill  make  a  nice  brown  crust  all  around.  When 
done  wrap  in  a  clean  cloth,  and  lean  against  something  until 
cold.  When  compressed  yeast  is  not  on  hand,  V2  cake  dry 
yeast  may  be  used  by  starting  the  sponge  the  day  before. — - 
[Mrs.  G.,  Wis. 

Oat  Meal  Bread  I 

Pour  3  cups  boiling  water  over  1  cup  rolled  oats,  add  ^  cup 
molasses  or  sugar,  1  tablesp  lard,  and  2  teasp  salt.  When  luke- 
warm add  V2  or  %  cake  compressed  yeast  dissolved  in  a  little 
lukewarm  water  (in  winter  it  may  be  necessary  to  use  1  whole 
cake  yeast),  then  add  enough  bread  flour  to  make  a  firm 
dough,  and  knead.  Let  rise  over  night,  then  mould  into  two 
loaves,  and  when  light,  bake  about  1^^  hours. — [G.  I.  C.  Mass. 


176  THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK 


Oat  Meal  Bread  11 

Take  any  desired  quantity  of  bread  sponge  and  before  you 
have  kneaded  it  quite  stiff  enough,  for  bread,  work  in  enough 
oat  meal  to  make  it  stiff,  then  shape  into  loaves,  grease  well 
all  over,  and  set  in  a  warm  place  to  rise.  It  will  take  longer  to 
rise  then  ordinary  white  bread.  When  light,  bake. — [Mrs.  W. 
W.  P.,  Okla. 

Barley  Bread 

To  1^/^  cups  hot,  boiled  barley  musb,  add  3  tablesp  sugar,  2 
tablesp  butter,  and  1  teasp  salt.  Mix  well  and  when  lukewarm 
add  V2  cake  compressed  yeast,  dissolved  in  V2  cup  lukewarm 
water.  Mix  well  and  then  knead  in  sufficient  flour  to  make  a 
stiff  dough.  Knead  until  elastic,  then  set  in  a  warm  place  to 
rise,  and  when  light  mould  into  loaves,  let  rise  again,  and 
when  light,  bake.  Bread  made  with  mush  requires  a  larger 
quantity  of  flour,  and  the  dough  should  be  mixed  stiffer  than 
ordinary  bread  dough. —  [J.  H. 

Baked  Brown  Bread  I 

To  1  pt  light  bread  sponge  add  i/^  cup  molasses  and  a  little 
salt,  and  when  well  mixed  stir  in  graham  flour  until  the  batter 
is  quite  thicks  Put  in  well  greased  bread  tins  to  rise,  and 
when  light  bake  a  little  longer  than  white  bread. —  [Mrs.  E. 
W.,  N.  Y. 

Baked  Brown  Bread  II 

Put  1  cup  molasses  and  T  teasp  soda  over  the  fire  and  stir 
until  it  foams,  then  add  1  pt  sweet  milk,  1  teasp  salt,  and  4 
cups  graham  flour  sifted  with  2  teasp  baking  powder.  If  all 
graham  flour  is  not  liked  use  3  cups  graham  and  1  cup  white 
flour.  "  Stir  well,  put  into  well  greased  tins,  let  stand  2  hours 
to  rise,  and  then  bake. —  [E.  T.,  N.  Y. 

Steamed  Brown  Bread  I 

To  1  cup  white  flour  add  1  cup  graham  flour,  V2  cup  yellow 
corn  meal,  1  teasp  soda  dissolved  in  1  Vk  cups  sour  milk,  V2  cup 
N  O  molasses,  and  pinch  salt.  Steam  2 1/£  hours,  then  put  in 
the  oven  about  5  minutes. — [Mrs.  J.  "W.  Van  B.,  Wis. 

Steamed  Brown  Bread  11 

To  3  cups  sifted  graham  flour  add  1  cup  corn  meal,  %  cup 
sugar,  1  cup  molasses,  2  cups  buttermilk  in  which  dissolve  2 
teasp  soda,  V2  teasp  salt,  and  lastly  2  cups  seeded  raisins 
dredged  with  flour.  Put  into  1-lb  baking  powder  cans  well 
greased,  filling  a  little  over  half  full.  Steam  3  hours. — [A.  C, 
Pa. 


THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK        177 


Steamed  Brown  Bread  HI 

To  2  cups  corn  meal  add  2  cups  rye  meal,  %  cup  molasses 
and  1  heaping  teasp  salt.  Mix  well  and  then  stir  in  3  cups 
boiling  hot  water.  When  smooth  add  1  cup  sour  milk  in  which 
1  teasp  soda  has  been  dissolved,  and  then  add  2  cups  sifted 
graham  flour.  Mix  well,  steam  4  hours,  and  then  bake  V2 
hour. — [Mrs.  C.  E.  W.,  Mass. 

Bran  Bread 

Sift  and  mix  together  4  cups  wheat  bran,  2  cups  wheat  flour„ 
1  teasp  soda  and  ^^  teasp  salt,  then  add  4  cups  sour  milk  and 
1  cup  molasses.  Turn  into  well  greased  bread  pans  and  bake 
in  moderately  hot  oven  about  1  hour. — [Mrs.  A.  M.,  Ct. 

Currant  Bread 

To  1  qt  bread  sponge  add  V2  cup  molasses,  2  tablesp  short- 
ening, 1  teasp  each  salt  and  cinnamon,  i^  teasp  cloves,  i/^  lb 
clean  currants,  and  ^  lb  seeded  raisins,  with  flour  enough  to 
make  a  stiff  dough.  Turn  into  well  greased  pans,  also  grease 
the  top  of  the  dough,  cover,  and  set  in  a  warm  place  to  rise. 
When  light,  bake. — [Mrs.  J.  L.  P.,  Fla. 

Hominy  Bread 

To  %  pt  cold,  boiled  hominy,  add  salt  to  taste,  %  pt  corn 
meal,  2  well-beaten  eggs,  1  tablesp  lard  or  butter,  and  suffi- 
cient sweet  milk  to  make  a  thick  batter.  Turn  into  well 
greased  pan  and  bake. —  [Miss  M.  C.  G.,  Ala. 

Mush  Bread 

Prepare  corn  meal  mush  in  the  usual  manner,  and  to  2  qts 
of  the  hot  mush  add  2  qts  whole  wheat  flour  or  graham  flour. 
Mix  with  a  large  wooden  spoon  and  while  mixing  add  1  cup 
maple  syrup  or  N  O  molasses,  1  teasp  salt,  and  butter  the  size 
of  a  walnut.  Mix  well  and  when  lukewarm  add  1  qt  light 
bread  sponge.  When  this  is  well  mixed  add  %  teasp  soda  and 
warm  flour  enough  to  knead  and  mould  into  small  loaves.  Put 
in  well  greased  pans,  let  rise  and  when  light  bake  in  a  moder- 
ate oven  about  %  hour.  When  done  remove  from  the  pans, 
rub  the  loaves  with  butter,  wring  a  clean  cloth  out  of  hot  water, 
lay  it  over  the  bread,  and  let  stand  till  cold.  The  crust  will  be 
nice  and  tender.  Follow  the  same  plan  for  softening  crust  of 
any  bread. — [A.  G.,  O. 

Pumpkin  Bread 

To  1  cup  stewed  pumpkin  add  pinch  salt,  1  egg,  2  teasp  each 
sugar  and  molasses,  1  cup  sweet  milk,  1  teasp  soda  dissolved 
in  1  cup  sour  milk,  and  a  mixture  of  corn  meal  and  white  flour 


178  THE   ORANGE  JUDD   COOK  BOOK 


enough  to  make  a  batter  as  for  sponge  cake,  using  %  part  flour 
and  %  part  corn  meal.  Pour  3  or  4  tablesp  thick  sweet  cream 
over  the  top  of  the  batter  just  before  placing  the  pan  in  the 
oven. — [Mrs.  E.  R.  S.,  N.  Y. 

Light  Com  Bread 

Add  1  tablesp  sait  to  1  qt  water,  bring  to  a  boil  and  then 
stir  in  enough  corn  meal  to  make  a  medium  thick  mush.  Let 
boil  up  once  and  remove  from  the  fire,  stir  in  2  qts  cold  water, 
and  thicken  with  corn  meal  until  stiff.  Cover  and  set  in  a 
warm  place  to  rise.  When  it  is  light  it  will  puff  up,  and  the 
batter  will  crack  open  and  seem  thinner.  Stir  in  V2  cup  sugar 
and  1  cup  flour,  and  let  rise  again,  which  will  take  about  15  or 
20  minutes;  then  pour  the  mixture  into  a  deep,  well  greased 
pan  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven. — [Mrs.  W.  T.  P.,  Mo. 

Corn  Meal  Egg  Bread 

To  2^/^  cups  corn  meal  add  ^^  cup  white  flour,  1  teasp  salt, 
2  tablesp  sugar,  1  scant  teasp  soda  dissolved  in  1  cup  sweet 
milk,  2  beaten  eggs,  and  1  cup  sour  milk  or  cream.  Beat  well, 
put  1  tablesp  butter  into  a  hot  spider,  just  large  enough  to 
bake  a  cake  the  size  of  a  breakfast  plate,  pour  the  batter  into 
this  and  then  pour  over  it  1  cup  sweet  milk,  but  do  not  stir. 
Bake  about  25  to  30  minutes  in  a  hot  oven.  When  the  cake  is 
cut,  the  milk  poured  in  last  will  show  in  delicious  creamy  veins 
running  through  it. —  [Mrs.  G.  A.  S.,  N.  Y. 

Com  Bread    (No  Eggs) 

To  2  cups  corn  meal  add  1  cup  flour,  %  cup  sugar,  1  teasp 
soda  and  %  teasp  salt.  Sift  these  ingredients  well,  then  add 
Vz  cup  melted  lard,  and  enough  buttermilk  or  sour  milk  to 
make  a  batter  as  for  griddle  cakes.  Pour  into  well  greased 
pans  about  %  inch  deep,  and  bake  15  minutes. — [M.  M.,  Ind. 

New  England  Corn  Bread 

Scald  1  cup  white  corn  meal  with  just  enough  boiling  water 
to  moisten  it.  Let  stand  about  10  minutes,  then  add  enough 
cold  water  to  make  a  soft  batter.  When  lukewarm  add  V2  cup 
liquid  yeast,  %  cup  molasses,  %  teasp  each  salt  and  soda,  and 

1  pt  rye  flour.  Beat  well,  cover,  and  let  rise  until  the  mixture 
cracks  on  top,  then  stir  it  down,  pour  into  buttered  and  floured 
tins,  let  rise  again,  sprinkle  the  top  lightly  with  flour,  and  bake 

2  hours  in  moderate  oven. — [Mrs.  D.  W.  C,  British  Columbia, 

Richmond  Com  Bread 

Put  2  tablesp  lard  in  a  small,  deep,  tin  pan  and  place  in  a 
hot  oven.     Beat  1  egs  thoroughly  in  another  dish,  add  Vz  cup 


THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK        179 

sweet  milk  or  water,  and  then  sift  in  1  cup  white  corn  meal 
with  1  scant  teasp  baking  powder  and  a  little  salt.  Beat  well, 
and  then  pour  in  the  melted  lard  which  had  been  placed  in  the 
tin  pan  in  the  oven,  stir  well,  and  then  pour  the  mixture  into 
the  hot  pan.  Some  people  like  a  slice  of  bacon  placed  on  top 
of  the  batter.  Bake  15  minutes  in  a  quick  oven.  Serve  with 
fried  fish  or  chicken. —  [Mrs.  H.  L.,  Va. 

Chesterfield  Corn  Bread 

This  is  to  the  south  what  fried  mush  is  to  the  north,  but  we 
think  it  more  palatable  and  hygienic.  To  1  cup  corn  meal  add 
pinch  salt  and  1  scant  teasp  baking  powder.  Mix  well,  then  stir 
in  water  enough  to  make  a  batter  that  can  be  poured  out.  Have 
a  large  pie  pan  with  1  tablesp  lard  in  the  oven  getting  hot  while 
preparing  the  batter.  Pour  the  batter  into  the  hot  pan,  and 
bake  in  a  quick  oven  until  nicely  browned.  This  can  also  be 
baked  on  top  of  the  stove  on  a  hot,  well  greased  skillet,  and 
turned,  to  brown  both  sides  evenly. — [Mrs.  H.  L.,  Va. 

Sweet  Bread 

To  1  qt  light  bread  sponge  add  2  ozs  butter,  4  ozs  sugar,  and 
1  tablesp  each  cinnamon  and  caraway  seed.  Knead  thoroughly, 
let  rise,  knead  again  10  minutes,  then  put  in  greased  baking 
pan,  brush  the  tops  with  melted  butter  and  when  light  bake  iq 
a  moderate  oven. —  [Mrs.  J.  B.,  Kan. 

German  Bread 

To  2  cups  light  bread  dough  add  scant  %  cup  butter  and 
lard  mixed,  1  cup  sugar,  2  cups  milk  in  which  dissolve  V2  teasp 
soda,  1  teasp  each  cinnamon  and  vanilla,  and  1  cup  seeded  rais- 
ins. Stir  with  flour  as  stiff  as  bread  dough,  let  rise,  mix,  let 
rise  again,  then  mould  into  loaves.  Score  the  tops  several 
times  with  a  sharp  knife,  brush  with  milk,  sprinkle  with  sugar, 
let  rise,  and  when  light,  bake. — [G.  L.  N.,  N.  Y. 

SAvedish  Bread 

Take  any  desired  quantity  of  light  bread  dough,  roll  out 
about  y2  inch  thick,  rub  with  melted  butter,  sprinkle  with 
sugar  and  raisins  or  currants,  and  a  dusting  of  nutmeg  or  cin- 
namon. Roll  up,  let  rise  %  hour  in  a  well  buttered  pan,  then 
rub  a  little  melted  butter  on  the  outside  of  the  loaf,  and  bake 
in  a  hot  oven  ^^  hour. — [M.  B.  G.,  Wis. 

Scotch  Bread 

When  making  bread  reserve  enough  for  a  small  loaf  and 
when  the  dough  is  ready  for  the  last  rising  roll  out  and  spread 
with  a  mixture  of  ^  cup  butter  and  %  cup  sugar.    Roll  up  and 


180  THE   ORANGE  JUDD   COOK  BOOK 


knead  till  smooth,  using  as  little  flour  as  possible,  then  roll  out 
again  and  spread  with  Vz  or  %  cup  seeded  raisins.  Roll  up 
and  knead  as  gently  as  possible,  till  the  fruit  is  well  mixed  with 
the  dough,  then  put  in  well  greased  pans,  let  rise  till  very  light, 
brush  the  top  lightly  with  melted  butter,  sift  over  with  some 
sugar,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. —  [Mrs.  F.  E.  A.,  Wash. 

Bread  Sticks  or  Braids 

Make  a  sponge  of  1  cup  scalded  milk,  cooled  to  lukewarm,  1 
cup  compressed  yeast  dissolved  in  i/4  cup  lukewarm  water,  and 
flour  enough  to  make  a  soft  batter.  Cover  and  let  stand  in  a 
warm  place,  and  when  light  add  Vz  teasp  salt,  1  tablesp  sugar, 

2  tablesp  butter,  the  beaten  white  of  1  egg,  and  flour  enough 
to  make  a  dough  that  can  be  handled.  Break  off  small  pieces, 
shape  into  balls,  then  with  the  hands  roll  on  a  board,  without 
using  flour,  into  long  round  strips  of  uniform  size  and  shape. 
The  strips  should  be  no  thicker  than  a  thick  lead  pencil.  Lay 
the  strips  in  a  well  greased  dripping  pan,  allowing  space 
between  for  swelling,  let  rise  until  light,  and  then  bake  in  a 
hot  oven.  If  the  braids  are  wanted,  roll  the  strips  to  the  desired 
length,  pinch  the  tops  of  three  of  four  together,  and  then  braid 
them  loosely,  and  pinch  the  ends  together.  Let  rise  and  when 
light,  bake. — [J.  H. 

Raised  Tea  Rolls 

In  the  morning  rub  2  teasp  shortening  (lard  or  butter)  into 

3  pts  flour,  add  1  teasp  salt,  2  tablesp  sugar,  %  cake  compressed 
yeast  dissolved  in  a  little  lukewarm  water  or  milk,  and  luke- 
warm water  or  milk  (or  half  and  half  of  each),  enough  to 
make  a  soft  dough.  Cover  and  let  rise  until  light  and  spongy. 
When  light  knead  with  flour  and  roll  out  about  %  inch  thick, 
cut  with  biscuit  cutter,  brush  each  with  a  little  melted  butter, 
dent  with  the  back  of  a  silver  knife  through  the  center,  fold 
over,  lay  in  a  well  greased  tin,  set  in  a  warm  place  to  rise,  and 
when  light,  bake  in  a  rather  quick  oven. —  [Mrs.  C.  E.  A.,  N.  H. 

Baking  Powder  Rolls 

Sift  1  qt  flour  with  3  teasp  baking  powder,  1  teasp  sugar,  and 
a  little  salt.  Rub  in  1  tablesp  cold  butter,  add  1  well-beaten 
egg,  and  enough  milk  to  make  a  smooth  dough  as  soft  as  can 
be  handled.  Roll  out  ^^  inch  thick,  cut  with  biscuit  cutter, 
brush  the  top  of  each  with  melted  butter,  dent  the  center  of 
each  with  the  back  of  a  silver  knife,  fold  half  over,  put  in  well 
greased  tins,  and  bake  in  a  rather  quick  oven. —  [Mrs.  N.  S., 
Mich. 

Cinnamon  Rolls 

Make  a  good,  rich  baking  powder  biscuit  dough,  roll  as  for 
biscuits  and  spread  liberally  with  sugar,  butter  and  cinnamon; 


THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK        181 

roll  up,  pinch  the-edges  together,  cut  in  slices,  put  a  piece  of 
butter  on  each  slice,  and  bake  immediately  in  a  quick  oven. — 
[B.  G.  R.,  Kan. 

Raised  Cinnamon  Rolls 

When  bread  sponge  is  ready  to  mould  into  loaves  take  about 
1  qt,  roll  out  about  %  inch  thick,  and  spread  lavishly  with  a 
mixture  of  a  generous  V2  cup  butter  and  1  cup  brown  sugar 
creamed  together  and  highly  flavored  with  cinnamon.  Roll  up 
and  pinch  the  edges  together,  cut  the  roll  in  slices  about  14  or 
%  inch  thick,  set  in  a  warm  place  to  rise,  and  when  light, 
bake. — [C.  L.,  Ind. 

French  Rolls 

Sift  1  qt  flour  with  1  teasp  salt  and  2  teasp  baking  powder, 
then  rub  in  1  tablesp  butter  or  lard,  and  add  1  scant  pt  sweet 
milk.  Turn  the  dough  out  on  a  floured  board,  give  it  one  or 
two  vigorous  kneadings  to  make  it  smooth,  then  divide,  break 
off  small  pieces,  roll  with  the  hands,  brush  tops  with  milk,  and 
bake  in  a  hot  oven  15  minutes. — [M.  A.  G.,  O. 

Buttermilk  Rolls 

To  scant  1  pt  buttermilk  add  2  tablesp  sour  cream,  1  teasp 
each  sugar,  salt  and  soda,  and  1  qt  sifted  flour.  Bake  in  well 
greased  iron  roll  pans.  Sour  milk  may  be  used  in  place  of 
buttermilk. — [M.  B.,  Vt. 

Graham  Rolls 

To  IV2  cups  sour  milk  or  buttermilk  add  1  tablesp  sour 
cream,  1  teasp  each  soda,  salt  and  sugar,  and  then  mix  quite 
stiff  with  1  part  white  flour  and  2  parts  graham  flour.  This 
will  make  one  doz  rolls.—  [Mrs.  W.  J.  B.,  Me. 

Squash    Rolls 

To  1  cup  boiled  and  sifted  squash  add  1  beaten  egg,  2  tablesp 
sugar,  2  cups  sour  milk  in  which  dissolve  1  teasp  soda,  %  teasp 
salt,  and  sifted  flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter.  Bake  in  well 
greased  roll    ans  in  a  quick  oven. — [E.  I.   Me. 

Bran  Rolls 

To  iy2  cups  clean  wheat  bran  add  1  cup  entire  wheat  flour, 
V2  cup  best  molasses,  11/4  cups  sour  milk  in  which  dissolve  % 
teasp  each  soda  and  salt.  These  are  all  the  ingredients  that 
are  necessary,  but  the  rolls  will  be  more  palatable  and  lighter 
if  a  little  melted  butter  is  added  and  1  beaten  egg.  Bake  in 
well  greased  gem  pans  in  a  moderately  quick  oven.  Bran 
rolls  or  bread  help  to  cure  constipation. — [Mrs.  H.  E.  R.,  Vt. 


182  THE   ORANGE   JUDD   COOK  BOOK 


Potato  Rolls 

Pare  and  boil  until  soft  4  good  sized  potatoes,  then  mach 
them  smooth  and  add  1  heaping  tablesp  butter,  1  teasp  salt,  1 
or  2  well-beaten  eggs,  1  pt  sweet  milk,  lukewarm,  and  1  scant 
pt  light  bread  sponge,  with  enough  flour  to  make  a  dough  that 
can  be  kneaded.  Set  in  a  warm  place  to  rise,  and  when  light 
shape  into  balls  the  size  of  an  egg.  Let  rise  again,  and  when 
very  light  bake  15  or  20  minutes  in  a  moderately  hot  oven. — 
[E.  L.  R.,  S.  D. 

Plain  Buns 

Mix  together  %  cup  lively  yeast,  1  cup  sweet  milk,  scalded 
and  cooled  to  lukewarm,  V2  teasp  salt,  and  2  cups  warm  flour. 
Cover,  and  set  in  a  warm  place  to  rise,  and  when  very  light 
work  in  V2  cup  sugar  and  2  tablesp  butter;  then  knead  well 
about  10  minutes,  using  no  more  flour  than  necessary.  Shape 
into  biscuits  a  little  larger  than  an  egg,  place  on  buttered  tins, 
and  set  in  a  warm  place  to  rise.  When  very  light  bake  in  a 
moderately  hot  oven.  The  tops  of  the  buns  may  be  brushed 
over  with  the  beaten  white  of  an  egg  sweetened,  about  15  or  20 
minutes  before  removing  from  the  oven,  or  sprinkled  with 
moist  sugar  just  afte--  -emoving  from  the  oven. — [Miss  E.  I.  B., 
Cal. 

Sweet  Buns  or  Busks 

Mix  together  1  pt  mashed  potatoes,  1  cup  sugar,  and  1  cup 
liquid  yeast.  Let  stand  in  a  warm  place  over  night,  and  next 
morning  add  1  scant  cup  butter,  1  cup  sugar,  2  or  3  well-beaten 
eggs,  and  warm  sifted  flour  enough  to  make  a  sponge.  Set  in 
a  warm  place  to  rise  and  when  light  knead,  using  no  more 
flour  than  necessary.  Let  rise  again,  then  shape  into  small 
buns,  put  in  well  greased  pans,  let  rise  till  light,  then  brush  the 
tops  with  sweet  cream,  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  bake  in  a  mod- 
erate oven.  Another  way:  After  the  dough  has  raised  for 
the  second  time,  roll  out  %  inch  thick,  spread  with  cream, 
sprinkle  with  sugar,  roll  up  like  jelly  cake,  pinch  the  edges, 
and  cut  off  slices  about  %  inch  thick.  Place  flat  on  a  well 
greased  pan,  let  rise  till  light,  and  bake  in  a  moderately  quick 
oven. —  [E.  M.  C,  Mich. 

Busks 

To  2  cups  raised  bread  dough  add  1  cup  sugar,  scant  %  cup 
butter,  1  or  2  weh-beaten  eggs,  and  sifted  flour  enough  to 
make  a  stiff  dough.  Set  in  a  warm  place  to  rise,  and  when 
light  mould  into  small  biscuits,  shaped  high.  Let  rise  again, 
and  when  light  sift  sugar  and  cinnamon  over  the  tops  and  bake. 
—  [M.  D.,  O. 


Qannin^  and  Preserving 

URING  the  spring,  summer  and  early  fall 
months,  the  good  housekeeper  on  the  farm 
finds  her  hands  full,  for  in  each  of  those 
seasons  Mother  Nature  provides  something 
in  the  line  of  fruit  or  vegetable  which  needs 
to  be  canned  or  preserved  for  use  during  the 
bleak  and  barren  months  of  winter,  begin- 
ning with  the  earliest  berries  and  garden  truck  and  winding 
up  with  the  late  pears,  peaches,  plums,  etc.,  in  the  fall 
months.  To  do  one's  own  canning  and  preserving  means 
much  warm  work  during  the  warm  seasons,  but  it  also 
means  many  dollars  saved  and  a  wholesome  and  bounteous 
table  supply  for  the  greater  part  of  the  year.  Therefore, 
every  good  housekeeper  is  interested  in  canning  and  pre- 
serving recipes,  and  it  is  hoped  that  among  the  following 
she  will  find  many  that  will  please  her  and  perhaps  point 
the  way  to  new  methods  or  combinations. 

Methods   of  Canning 

There  are  two  canning  methods  most  generally  used,  the 
first  being  to  boil  the  fruit  in  a  syrup  and  then  filling  into 
the  jars  and  sealing  while  hot.  The  second  method  is  a  little 
more  troublesome,  but  thought  by  many  cooks  to  be  the 
best.  The  glass  cans  are  filled  with  the  fruit  and  sugar  or 
juice,  raw  or  partly  cooked,  the  covers  adjusted  loosely,  and 
the  cans  then  set  in  a  boiler  of  water  and  boiled  for  a  pre- 
scribed time.  Hay  or  pieces  of  wood  are  first  placed  in  the 
bottom  of  the  boiler,  and  hay  or  cloths  packed  between  the 
jars,  so  they  will  not  crack,  and  the  water  is  allowed  to  come 
almost  but  not  quite  up  to  the  tops  of  the  jars.  The  boiler 
is  closely  covered  during  the  boiling  process,  to  retain  the 
steam.  When  they  have  boiled  or  steamed  long  enough  the 
jars  are  removed  from  the  boiler,  each  one  filled  full  with 
j-uice  or  syrup,  the  rubbers  adjusted,  and  the  covers  screwed 
down  as  tight  as  possible. 

183 


184  THE   ORANGE   JUDD  COOK  BOOK 

About  the  Jars  for  Canning 

Of  course,  the  jars  must  be  perfectly  clean,  the  covers 
ditto,  and  fit  exactly,  and  the  rubbers  new  and  of  good  quality. 
Sometimes,  though  very  seldom,  two  old  rubbers  that  seem 
good  can  be  used  in  place  of  one  new  one,  but  it  is  always 
more  or  less  of  a  risk  to  try  this.  Jars,  covers  and  rubbers 
about  which  there  is  the  least  bit  of  doubt  had  better  be 
kept  for  very  sweet  or  spiced  preserves,  catsups  or.  hot  rel- 
ishes, that  do  not  spoil  easily.  The  wise  housekeeper,  as 
soon  as  she  empties  a  glass  jar  of  its  contents,  immediately 
washes  and  dries  the  jar,  cover  and  rubber  band,  and  puts 
the  jar  away  in  a  dust-proof  place  with  the  rubber  band  and 
a  small  lump  of  charcoal  inside  and  the  cover  screwed  on 
loosely.  This  saves  time  and  trouble  for  the  next  canning 
season,  when  the  task  of  fitting  cans  and  covers  is  especially 
wearysome.  However,  if  this  was  not  done,  it  will  be  nec- 
essary to  try  all  the  cans  and  covers.  This  is  best  done  the 
evening  before  they  are  wanted.  Wash  and  rinse  the  jars 
and  covers  thoroughly,  using  some  baking  soda  with  hot 
water,  until  you  are  sure  each  jar  is  sweet  and  clean.  Then 
put  some  clean  water  in  each  jar,  put  on  the  rubbers  and 
the  covers  that  seem  to  fit  best,  screw  tight,  and  let  the  jars 
stand  on  their  heads  all  night.  The  leaky  ones  can  then  be 
easily  taken  out  the  next  morning,  and  perhaps  tried  with 
other  covers,  or  set  aside  for  other  use.  The  foregoing  direc- 
tions apply  chiefly  to  the  old-fashioned  glass  cans  with 
zinc  porcelain-lined  covers — when  the  new  glass  covered 
snap  or  lightning  jars  are  used,  there  need  be  no  matching  of 
covers  and  jars. 

Heating  and  Filling  Jars 

If  hot  fruit  and  syrup  are  poured  into  cold  glass  jars,  they 
will  immediately  crack.  Warm  jars  by  placing  them  in  hot 
water  on  the  back  of  the  stove,  and  when  ready  to  fill  stand 
the  jars  on  a  folded  towel  wrung  out  of  hot  water.  A  silver 
fork  or  spoon  placed  in  the  jar  while  it  is  being  filled  is  also 
said  to  be  effective  in  preventing  cracking  from  heat.  The 
jars  must  be  overflowing  full  when  the  covers  are  put  on, 
and  great  care  should  be  taken  that  no  air  bubbles  remain 
in  the  jar.  To  break  these  up,  gently  run  a  silver  knife 
through  the  contents,  just  before  the  final  filling  up.  If  not 
quite  enough  syrup  is  on  hand  to  fill  the  jars  full  to  over- 
flowing, a  little  boiling  water  may  be  poured  in  each.  Seal 
while  hot,  screwing  down  the  lids  as  tight  as  possible.  Before 
they  are  quite  cold,  try  if  they  can  be  screwed  any  tighter. 
If  properly  fitting  covers  and  good,  new  rubbers  were  used, 
the  jars  will  be  sealed  air  tight,  but  if  there  is  any   doubtJ 


^^_^^^__^_ 

^^^H^^^ft  i 

^^^^^^1 

^kjf^ 

^mS' 

^^H|:,:            ''*=^^^..!^ 

^^^^^kIjM  "^ 

^^^^9H 

^ 

y 

HHIHI 

i^^H 

lH 

^1   ^ .     ;^^^H 

I^^^^IIL?^^^^^'' 

^^^^H^y^^    -  ^wHHHj 

f     iM 

^^^vi^MflH^     # 

""  ^^^H 

Tf/ 

^1 

WF     ^.J 

f     ^I^^H 

'j^^^^^^^^^^^mI 

i^H 

o 


THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK        185 

about  this,  let  them  stand  on  their  heads  over  night.  Those 
that  show  any  signs  of  leaking  will  have  to  be  opened  and 
the  contents  heated  over  again,  and  put  in  jars  with  better 
fitting  covers.  Store  all  canned  goods  in  a  cool,  dark  and 
dry  place.  A  paper  bag  slipped  over  each  jar  will  help  ex- 
clude  light. —  [A.    G.,   Mass. 

About  Salicylic  Acid 

A  number  of  recipes  for  canning  and  preserving,  which 
call  for  salicylic  acid  to  help  the  preserving  process,  were 
received  by  the  editor  of  this  book,  but  have  been  omitted 
because  it  was  deemed  unwise  to  recommend  them,  inasmuch 
as  salicylic  acid,  if  used  at  all,  must  be  used  with  the  greatest 
caution.  Salicylic  acid  is  a  drug  which  should  only  be  pre- 
scribed by  a  competent  physician  fully  aw^are  of  the  condi- 
tion of  his  patient.  It  is  dangerous  to  partake  of  it  fre- 
quently, however  small  the  quantity  may  be.  What  is  meat 
for  one  man  may  be  poison  for  another.  Chemical  preserva- 
tives should  never  be  used  in  putting  up  articles  of  food. 
Our  national  pure  food  laws  have  recently  made  wise  pro- 
visions  in    this    respect. —  [Editor. 

Canned  Cherries 

Pick  cherries  over  carefully,  discarding  all  wormy  and  un- 
ripe ones.  Allow  1  cup  sugar  for  each  qt  jar  of  fruit.  Put 
the  cherries  and  sugar  in  layers  in  the  jars  until  they  are 
nearly  full,  then  arrange  the  jars  in  a  boiler,  first  placing  a 
layer  of  straw  in  the  bottom  of  the  boiler  and  also  pack  some 
straw  between  the  jars.  Cover  the  jars  but  do  not  put  on 
the  rubbers.  Then  pour  enough  water  into  the  boiler  to 
come  nearly  to  the  top  of  the  jars  but  not  enough  so  that 
any  of  it  can  run  into  the  jars.  Cover  the  boiler  and  let 
boil  until  the  sugar  in  the  jars  is  melted  and  forms  a  clear 
syrup.  Meanwhile  have  more  syrup  in  a  preserving  kettle, 
and  when  the  fruit  is  ready,  take  out  the  jars,  one  at  a 
time,  fill  up  full  with  the  boiling  hot  syrup,  put  on  the  rub- 
bers, and  seal  at  once.  Be  sure  to  have  the  glass  overflowing 
full  with  syrup. —  [M.  C,  Va. 

To  Can  whole    Cherries  Cold 

Use  freshly  picked,  carefully  selected  cherries,  not  over- 
ripe and  with  the  stems  on,  wash  and  drain  them  carefully 
and  fill  into  cans,  but  do  not  pit  them  or  remove  the  stems, 
and  be  careful  not  to  break  the  stems.  Fill  the  cans  with 
fresh  cold  water,  shake  well  to  be  sure  there  are  no  air 
bubbles  in  the  can,  then  fill  to  overflowing  with  fresh  water 


186  THE   ORANGE  JUDD   COOK  BOOK 

and  seal  at  once.  When  opened  they  will  he  just  like  fresh 
picked  cherries,  and  you  can  serve  them  Christmas  time  and  set 
your  guests  to  wondering  where  you  got  fresh  cherries.  They 
must  be  sealed  air  tight,  and  stored  in  a  dark,  dry  and  coal 
place. — [Mrs.  L.  W.,   O. 

Cherry  Preserves 

Wash  the  cherries  thoroughly  at  least  3  times,  then  drain 
well  and  weigh.  To  each  lb  cherries  allow  1  lb  sugar  and  boil 
until  most  of  the  cherries  have  broken  to  pieces.  If  liked, 
add  1  sliced  lemon  (seeds  discarded),  to  every  4  qts  of  the 
preserves  and  boil  together  with  the  preserves  until  done. 
Put  up  in  stone  jars. — [Miss  K.   B.,  Minn. 

Soiir  Cherry  Preserve 

For  each  lb  carefully  selected  cherries,  allow  1  lb  sugar. 
Put  the  sugar  in  a  perserving  kettle  and  add  1  small  cup  cold 
water  to  every  lb  sugar  and  boil  until  the  syrup  is  transparent, 
taking  care  not  to  let  it  scorch  or  burn,  and  skimming  off 
all  skum  that  rises  to  the  surface.  After  this  put  in  the 
cherries  and  let  them  boil  for  15  minutes,  then  skim  out  the 
cherries  and  put  them  into  glass  jars.  Let  the  syrup  boil 
down  some  and  add  to  it  any  of  the  juice  that  has  drained 
off  the  cherries  in  the  jar.  When  the  syrup  is  boiled  suffi- 
ciently, fill  up  the  jars  with  it  and  seal  at  once.  Store  in  a  cool 
dark,  and  dry  place. — [Mrs.  O.  M.  P.,  N.  H. 

Canned  Baked  Apples 

Fill  a  large  pudding  dish  with  sour  apples,  pared,  cored 
and  quartered.  Sprinkle  with  %  cup  sugar  for  each  qt  apples 
and  add  a  sprinkle  of  cinnamon  if  liked.  Pour  in  about  1 
cup  water,  cover  closely  and  bake  several  hours  in  a  moderate 
oven,  or  until  the  apples  turn  red.  Fill  at  once  into  hot  fruit 
cans  and  seal  air  tight. —  [I.  A.  S.,  Me. 

Candied  Apples 

Preserve  the  apples  in  the  usual  way,  usin?  1  lb  sugar  to  1 
lb  fruit.  When  the  apples  are  done  and  just  before  removing 
the  kettle  from  the  fire,  dissolve  1  tablesp  cream  of  tartar 
(more  or  less  according  to  the  quantity  of  apples  used)  in  a 
little  water  and  add  this  to  the  preserved  fruit,  stirring 
gently.  Pour  the  fruit  into  jars,  let  stand  about  10  days  or  2 
weeks,  then  drain  the  fruit  from  the  syrup  and  spread  on 
platters  and  let  dry  in  a  cool  room,  first  dipping  each  piece 
of  fruit  in  granulated  sugar.  This  is  a  fine  substitute  for 
citron   in   cakes   or  puddings. — [L.   E.   M.,   Mich. 


THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK        187 

Pickled  Apples 

Boil  together  1  qt  vinegar  and  6  cups  brown  sugar.  When 
it  has  come  to  a  boil,  skim  and  add  1  teasp  each  cloves,  cin- 
namon and  allspice,  then  fill  the  boiling  spiced  syrup  full 
with  sweet  apples  that  have  been  washed  and  wiped  dry,  cut 
in  halves  and  the  cores  removed.  Do  not  pare  the  apples. 
Let  boil  until  soft  but  not  soft  enough  to  break.  Can  and 
seal  air  tight.  Give  the  cans  a  little  shake,  once  in  a  while, 
when  filling  them,  so  the  contents  will  settle  down  and  the 
air  bubbles  break.  Be  sure  to  fill  the  cans  overflowing  full. 
—  [M.  P.,  N.  H. 

Crabapple  Preserves 

Allow  1  lb  sugar  for  every  lb  of  carefully  selected  ripe, 
red  crabapples.  Wipe  the  apples  clean  but  leave  the  stems 
on  and  scald  them  in  boiling  water.  Make  a  syrup  of  the 
sugar,  adding  a  very  little  water,  and  when  the  sugar  is  boiled 
clear,  put  in  the  fruit  and  boil  until  soft.  Then  skim  out  the 
apples  carefully  and  put  them  into  jars.  Boil  the  juice  down 
until  it  is  quite  thick.  Drain  out  the  liquid  collected  in  the 
jars  and  add  it  to  the  boiling  juice.  When  suflaciently  thick, 
pour  it  over  the  fruit,  having  each  jar  as  full  as  possible.  Seal 
while  hot.  These  may  be  put  up  in  small  stone  jars,  but  in. 
that  case,  do  not  cover  the  jars  until  the  contents  are 
thoroughly  cold. — [M.   P.,  N.   H. 

Spiced  Crabapples 

Thoroughly  heat  1  pt  vinegar  and  4  lbs  sugar,  then  add  6 
lbs  crabapples,  chopped  fine,  2  lbs  raisins,  seeded  and  chopped, 
the  grated  rind  and  juice  of  2  lemons,  1  teasp  cloves  and  2 
teasp  cinnamon.  Cook  slowly  until  the  apples  are  done. 
Oan  and  seal. — [Mrs.  F.  D.  D.,  N.  Y. 

Canned  Pineapple 

Pick  out  the  eyes  and  peel,  and  slice  i/4  inch  thick  and  core 
sound,  ripe  pineapples.  Cut  into  small  dice  or  chips  and  put 
over  the  fire  in  a  preserving  kettle,  adding  1  cup  sugar  Tor 
each  qt  fruit,  and  water  enough  to  cover.  Cook  until  tender, 
then  turn  into  jars  and  seal  while  hot. —  [Mrs.  C.  W.  K.,  111. 

Canned  Currants 

For  3  lbs  carefully  selected  stemmed,  washed  and  drained 
currants,  allow  1  lb  sugar.  Put  the  fruit  and  the  sugar 
together  to  boil  about  10  minutes  or  until  the  juice  is  pretty 
well  extracted,  then  carefully  skim  out  the  fruit  and  let  the 
juice  boil  about  20  minutes,  after  which  return  the  fruit 
to  the  juice  again  and  let  cook  long  enough  to  heat  through. 
Then  can  and  seal  air  tight. — [Mrs.  B.   B.,  Mo. 


188  THE   ORANGE   JUDD   COOK  BOOK 

To  Can  Currants  Cold 

Select  good,  ripe  currants,  remove  stems,  wash  and  drain, 
and  allow  equal  weight  of  sugar.  Wash  the  currants  and  be 
sure  that  every  single  one  is  crushed.  Mix  thoroughly  with 
the  sugar  and  let  stand  over  night.  Next  morning  stir  well, 
and  when  all  the  sugar  is  dissolved,  put  it  in  air-tight  fruit 
cans  and  set  away  in  a  cool,  dark  and  dry  place.  Be  sure 
to  have  the  cans  full  and  to  pack  them  closely,  so  that  no  air 
bubbles  will  remain  in  them. — [Mrs.  W.  L.  J.,  Vt. 

Spiced  Currants 

Put  1  tablesp  ground  cinnamon  and  1  teasp  whole  cloves 
in  a  little  cheese  cloth  bag  and  let  it  simmer  slowly  about  15 
minutes  with  1  cup  vinegar  and  4  lbs  sugar.  Then  add  4  lbs 
currants  and  boil  slowly  till  rich  and  thick.  Remove  spice 
bag  and  can  and  seal  while  hot.  Stoned  cherries  may  be 
prepared  the  same  way.  Boil  1  cup  cherry  stones  in  the  bag 
with  the  spices. — [Mrs.  J.  P.  D.,  Neb. 

Quince  Preserves 

Pare  and  quarter  the  fruit,  removing  the  core  and  hard 
parts,  then  weigh  and  allow  %  lb  sugar  to  1  lb  quinces. 
Cover  the  fruit  with  water  and  boil  slowly  until  tender.  Then 
skim  out  the  fruit,  strain  the  juice  if  necessary,  put  the  sugar 
in  the  juice,  and  cook  and  skim  until  it  is  a  thick  syrup,  then 
return  the  quinces  to  the  syrup  and  cook  until  they  are  of 
the  desired  shade  and  thickness.  Put  up  hot  in  air-tight  jars. 
The  flavor  will  be  improved  if  a  tart  apple  or  a  little  apple 
juice  is  added. — [Mrs.  J.  L.  R.,  O. 

Canned  Grapes 

Pick  carefully  selected  ripe  grapes  from  stems  and  put 
in  1-qt  jars.  Allow  1  cup  sugar  and  3  cups  water  for  each 
Qt  can  and  boil  until  it  syrups.  Place  the  grape-filled  cans  on 
the  stove  shelf,  where  they  may  become  warm,  have  a  tea- 
kettle filled  with  freshly  boiled  water,  and  when  the  cans 
are  thoroughly  warmed  so  they  will  not  break,  fill  1  can  at 
a  time  as  rapidly  as  possible  with  clear  boiling  water,  pour  off 
immediately,  and  then  fill  with  the  boiling  syrup  and  seal  at 
once. — [Mrs.  M.  B.  W.,  N.  Y. 

Canned  Grapes  (No  Sugar) 

Use  only  good,  ripe  grapes,  separate  pulp  and  skins,  throw- 
ing them  in  separate  vessels.  Put  the  pulp  over  the  fire  with  a 


THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK        1S» 

very  little  water  and  boil  slowly  until  the  seeds  separate. 
Then  rub  through  a  sieve  to  remove  the  seeds,  return  the  pulp 
to  the  preserving  kettle  containing  the  skins,  and  cook  well 
together,  stirring  often  to  prevent  scorching.  When  the  skins 
are  tender,  fill  into  jars  and  seal  air  tight. — [Miss  B.  K.,  Ind. 

Grape  Preserves  I 

Pick  over  ripe  grapes,  carefully  discarding  faulty  ones, 
press  out  pulp,  preserving  skins  or  hulls.  For  every  lb  hull3 
allow  1  lb  brown  sugar.  Put  in  preserving  kettle  and  let 
stand  over  night,  then  put  over  the  fire  and  cook  until  thick. 
This  makes  a  very  rich  and  "winey"  preserve.  It  needs  no 
flavoring.  The  pulp  can  be  boiled  with  a  very  little  water 
and  then  rubbed  through  a  colander  to  remove  the  seeds 
and  then  boiled  with  an  equal  quantity  of  sugar  for  jam.— - 
[Mrs.  G.  W.  C  Tex. 

Grape  Preserves  11 

Use  only  good,  ripe  grapes,  wash  and  drain,  separate  the 
pulps  and  skins  and  throw  them  in  separate  vessels.  Cook 
the  skins  with  barely  enough  water  to  cover  and  cook  the 
pulp  in  another  kettle  in  its  own  juice  until  the  seeds  separate, 
then  rub  through  a  colander  and  add  the  strained  pulp  to  the 
skins,  which  should  have  boiled  nearly  dry  by  that  time^ 
Measure  and  allow  an  equal  measure  of  sugar.  After  the 
pulp  has  been  added  to  the  skins,  let  this  mixture  cook  26 
minutes,  stirring  often,  then  add  %  of  the  sugar  and  boil  5 
minutes,  add  another  ^A  of  the  sugar,  again  boil  5  minutes, 
and  proceed  this  way  until  the  sugar  is  all  used  and  the  skins 
are  soft. — [L.  A.  S.,  Me. 

Spiced  Grapes 

Separate  the  pulps  and  skins  of  4  qts  grapes,  putting  them 
in  separate  vessels.  Cook  the  pulp  until  the  seeds  separate, 
then  strain  through  a  colander  and  add  to  the  skins  with 
Zy2  lbs  brown  sugar,  V2  pt  vinegar,  1  tablesp  cinnamon,  and 
%  tablesp  each  cloves  and  allspice.  Boil  slowly  about  2% 
hours,  or  until  the  skins  are  tender. —  [F.  M.  P.,  Mass. 

Canned  Pears 

Put  1  teasp  each  of  cinnamon  and  nutmeg  in  a  little  cteese 
cloth  bag  and  drop  it  into  a  syrup  made  of  1  %  lbs  sugar  and 
1%  cups  water.  Slice  in  2  lemons,  pits  removed,  and  let  boil 
until  it  thickens  like  syrup.  Then  add  3  lbs  ripe  pears, 
weighed  after  peeling,  and  cook  until  the  pears  are  done 
and  of  a  delicate  pink  color.  Remove  the  spice  bag  before 
pouring  into  jars.     Seal  while  hot. —  [C.  B.  H.,  Mich, 


190        THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK 


Chipped  or  Spiced  Pears 

Cut  8  lbs  pears  into  small  dice  or  chips,  cover  with  6  lbs 
sugar,  and  let  stand  over  night.  Next  morning  add  the  grated 
rind  and  juice  of  3  lemons  and  2  ozs  white  ginger  root.  Sim- 
mer slowly  about  3  hours  and  can  while  hot. —  [Mrs.  L.  G.,  Cal. 

Canned  Pliims 

Wash  2  lbs  plums,  red,  blue,  yellow  or  green  Gage.  Prick 
them  with  a  silver  fork  or  a  steel  knitting  needle  (to  keep 
the  skins  from  breaking  while  boiling)  and  then  put  the 
plums  whole  into  a  thick,  boiling  syrup  made  by  boiling 
together  1  lb  sugar  and  1  pt  water.  Boil  the  plums  in  this 
mixture  about  8  or  10  minutes,  or  until  tender.  Seal  while 
hot.  Cherries  may  be  canned  in  the  same  manner. —  [K.  A.  D., 
N.  D. 

Preserved  Plums 

Make  a  syrup  of  1  lb  sugar  and  Vz  cup  water  and  when  boil- 
ing briskly,  drop  in  1  lb  plums  that  have  been  washed  and 
drained,  cut  in  halves  and  the  pits  removed.  Boil  gently  until 
the  plums  are  done.  Seal  while  hot  in  glass  jars. — [Mrs.  B.  E. 
T.,  Va. 

Spiced  Plums 

Wash  and  prick  %  gal  plums,  cover  with  water  and  boil  5 
minutes,  then  pour  off  the  water  and  add  to  the  plums  3  lbs 
sugar,  1  pt  vinegar  and  1  teasp  each  ground  cloves,  allspice 
and  cinnamon.  Boil  about  30  minutes,  stirring  frequently. 
Can  and  seal  while  hot. — [M.  B.,  111. 

Canned  Whole  Peaches 

Select  firm,  medium  sized  peaches,  free  from  decay,  a  trifle 
under-ripe  is  better  than  over-ripe,  pare,  but  do  not  remove 
the  stones.  Throw  the  fruit  into  cold  water  as  fast  as  pared 
to  keep  it  from  turning  dark,  but  do  not  let  it  remain  long  in 
the  water,  or  the  flavor  will  be  lost.  Make  a  syrup  of  1  pt 
sugar  and  1  qt  water  for  every  4  lbs  peaches.  Place  the  fruit, 
after  draining  off,  in  a  shallow,  wide  preserving  kettle,  and 
pour  the  hot  syrup  over  it  and  cook  gently  until  the  fruit  is 
easily  pierced  by  a  straw.  Transfer  the  fruit  carefully  to  glass 
jars,  fill  almost  to  the  top  with  hot  syrup,  then  run  a  silver 
knife  around  inside  the  jar  to  let  out  the  air  bubbles.  Fill 
quickly  overflowing  full  with  the  hot  syrup  and  screw  down 
the  cover  as  tight  as  possible.     If  some  of  the  juice  overflows 


THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK        191 

on  the  rubber  during  the  sealing  process,  it  will  do  no  injury, 
but  will  rather  aid  in  the  sealing.  Peaches  canned  whole  in. 
this  way  are  delicious — much  better  than  when  the  stones  are 
removed,  as  they  impart  a  fine  flavor. — [L.  O.  C,  Ala. 

To  Can  Peaches  Without  Boiling 

Peel  good,  not  over-ripe  peaches,  cut  in  halves  and  fill  into 
jars  which  have  been  placed  in  boiling  water.  Then  cover  imme- 
diately with  a  hot  syrup  made  of  1  pt  sugar  and  1^  pts 
water.  Have  the  cans  overflowing  full  and  be  sure  there  are 
no  air  bubbles  in  them.  Then  seal  at  once  while  hot  and 
allow  the  cans  to  stand  submerged  in  hot  water  until  they  have 
all  cooled.  This  method  far  surpasses  the  old-fashioned 
method  of  canning,  and  the  fruit  will  retain  its  fresh  flavor. — • 
[A.  McL.,  111.  This  method  is  also  vouched  for  by  Mrs.  E.  F. 
G.,  N.  Y. 

Peach  Preserves 

Pare  peaches  and  mix  with  sugar  and  let  stand  over  night. 
Allow  4  lbs  sugar  to  5  lbs  fruit.  Next  morning,  put  over  the 
fire  and  boil  20  minutes,  then  skim  out  the  fruit  with  a  per- 
forated spoon  and  spread  on  a  flat  dish  to  cool  and  harden. 
Let  the  syrup  boil  until  it  almost  begins  to  candy,  then  return 
the  fruit  to  the  syrup  and  boil  very  slowly  10  minutes.  Seal 
in  glass  jars  while  hot.  If  the  syrup  has  not  cooked  long 
enough,  the  preserves  are  likely  to  ferment,  and  the  riper  the 
fruit,  the  longer  it  will  take  to  boil  the  water  out  of  tne  syrup. 
— [Mrs.  A.  A.  W.,  N.  C. 

Sweet  Pickled  Peaches 

Prepare  a  syrup  of  4  lbs  brown  sugar,  1  qt  best  cider  vine- 
gar and  2  ozs  stick  cinnamon.  Boil  20  minutes.  Prepare 
peaches  by  putting  them  a  few  minutes  in  boiling  water  and 
slipping  off  the  skins.  Put  enough  of  these  peeled  peaches  in 
the  syrup  to  cover  the  bottom  of  the  kettle,  and  cook  until 
tender.  Fill  glass  jars  with  the  peaches,  pour  the  boiling  syrup 
over  them  and  seal. — [M.  B.  G.,  Wis. 

Preserved    Citron    Melons 

Peel  the  melons,  remove  the  seeds  and  cut  into  small  slices 
about  Vz  inch  thick.  For  every  6  lbs  melon  allow  3  lbs  sugar, 
the  juice  and  yellow  rind  of  4  lemons  and  a  small  piece  of 
green  ginger  root.  Boil  the  melons  in  a  little  water  about 
Vz  hour,  or  until  they  look  clear  and  can  be  pierced  with  a 
straw.     Then  drain,  cover  with  cold  water  and  let  stand  over 


192  THE  ORANGE   JUDD   COOK   BOOK 

night.  Next  morning  tie  the  ginger  root  in  a  clieese  cloth  hag 
and  hoil  it  in  3  pts  water  until  the  water  is  highly  flavored 
with  the  ginger.  Then  remove  the  ginger,  add  the  sugar,  and 
when  the  sugar  is  melted,  add  the  thin  yellow  peel  of  the  lem- 
ons and  boil  and  skim  until  no  more  skum  rises.  Remove  the 
lemon  peel  and  add  the  lemon  juice  and  the  sliced  citron,  thor- 
oughly drained  from  the  cold  water,  and  boil  all  together 
until  the  citron  is  quite  transparent  and  soft,  but  not  soft 
enough  to  break.  Can  while  hot  in  air-tight  jars. — [Miss  J. 
R.  W.,  Kan. 

Watermelon  Preserves  ^ 

Pare  the  green  rind  from  the  melon,  discard  the  soft  pulp 
and  seeds,  using  only  the  solid  parts  of  the  rind.  Cut  into 
small  pieces,  weigh  and  allow  7  lbs  sugar  for  10  lbs  melon,  2 
sliced  lemons,  seeds  discarded  and  a  little  piece  of  ginger  root 
(the  ginger  may  be  omitted  if  the  flavor  is  not  liked).  Boil 
all  together  until  the  melon  is  clear  and  the  juice  is  thick. — • 
[Mrs.  B.  F.  G.,  111. 

Cantaloupe  Presei*ves 

Half  ripe  cantaloupe  or  muskmelons  are  best  for  preserves. 
Remove  peel  and  seeds,  cut  in  small  pieces  and  for  every  3 
lbs  melon,  allow  2  lbs  sugar.  Put  melons  and  sugar  in  pre- 
serving kettle  and  let  stand  a  few  hours  to  draw  the  juice, 
then  boil  until  the  syrup  is  thick  and  the  fruit  tender.  Can 
while  hot  in  air-tight  jars.  Any  flavoring  that  is  liked  may  be 
added  while  boiling. —  [Mrs.  S.  B.,  Tex. 

Preserved  Elderberries 

To  7  lbs  elderberries  add  boiling  water  to  cover.  Let  stand 
about  15  minutes  and  then  drain.  Chop  fine  3  lemons,  remov- 
ing seeds,  then  add  them  to  the  drained  elderberries  with  % 
pt  vinegar  and  5  lbs  sugar.  Let  boil  about  15  minutes,  then 
skim  out  the  berries  and  boil  the  juice  down  thick,  after  which 
add  the  berries  again  and  boil  13  minutes  longer.  Can  be 
put  up  in  stone  jars  or  discarded  jars  for  canning,  that  are  not 
air  tight. —  [Miss  L.  M.  B.,  N.  Y. 

Canned  Huckleberries 

Put  6  qts  huckleberries  and  2  lbs  sugar  in  a  preserving  ket- 
tle over  the  fire  and  let  simmer  gently  a  few  minutes  until  the 
sugar  is  melted,  then  allow  them  to  come  to  a  boil  and  boil  4 
or  5  minutes.  Can  at  once  in  air-tight  jars. —  [Mrs.  C.  vonW., 
N.  J. 


be 

03 

O. 

d 

o 

0) 

J  .  "* 

a 

"o 

'.  r^^ 

t 

a> 

OJ 

'  t  i 

M 

.    i) 

^        M 

^ 
p 

A 

Ph 

*^i 

>^ 

r 

M 

\ 

P3 

U 

< 

I:^ 

O 

< 

z. 

q 

1— 1 

o 

o 

THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK        193 


Canned  Blueberries 

Pick  over  carefully  and  wash  and  drain  ripe  blueberries, 
and  stew  them  in  their  own  juice,  with  a  very  little  water 
added  at  first  to  keep  the  lower  ones  from  sticking  to  the  ket- 
tle. When  all  are  well  cooked  through  turn  them  at  once  into 
warm  jars  and  seal  air  tight.  They  will  keep  without  sugar 
and  are  nice  for  pies. —  [L.  A.  S.,  Me. 

Canned  Gooseberries — Green  or  Wild 

Remove  stems  and  flower  ends  and  wash  carefully  in  warm 
water  and  drain  thoroughly.  To  1  qt  gooseberries  add  1  cup 
water  and  2  cups  sugar.  Cook  slowly  1  hour  and  then  turn 
into  fruit  cans  and  seal  while  hot.  This  will  keep  indefinitely 
if  sealed  air  tight  and  stored  in  a  dark,  cool  place. — [Mrs.  L. 
A.  G.,  Me. 

To  Can  Gooseberries  Without  Sugar 

Remove  stem  and  blossom  ends  from  carefully  selected  ripe 
gooseberries  and  put  in  a  preserving  kettle  with  just  enough 
water  to  come  up  through  them,  but  not  quite  cover  them.  Let 
boil  just  long  enough  for  the  gooseberries  to  turn  from  the 
original  color  to  a  clear  yellow,  and  then  pour  into  jars  and 
seal  immediately.  Canned  in  this  v/ay  they  retain  their 
natural,  fresh  fiavor. — [Mrs.  B.  T.  W.,  Mo. 

Rhubarb  and  Gooseberry  Preserves 

Boil  together  equal  parts  of  rhubarb  and  gooseberries,  and 
when  soft,  strain  through  a  sieve,  then  return  to  the  fire  and 
boil  until  it  looks  clear  and  begins  to  thicken.  Then  add 
sugar  of  equal- weight  with  the  fruit,  measured  before  boiling, 
and  boil  about  15  minutes  longer.  Pour  into  jelly  glasses  or 
jars,  and  when  perfectly  cold,  cover  with  melted  paraffine  or 
paper.  This  need  not  be  sealed  air  tight, — [Mrs.  F.  E.  A., 
Wash. 

Spiced  Blackberries 

To  5  qts  blackberries  add  1  qt  vinegar,  3  lbs  sugar,  1  tablesp 
cloves  and  ^A  tablesp  each  allspice  and  cinnamon.  Put  the 
spices  in  a  cheese  cloth  bag  and  boil  them  with  the  berries 
until  they  are  of  the  consistency  of  preserves.  Remove  the 
spice  bag  and  can,  not  necessarily  air  tight.- — [Mrs.  S.  Q., 
Tenn. 


194        THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK 


Canned  Raspberries 

Pill  fruit  jars  with  carefully  selected  ripe,  red  raspberries, 
and  fill  full  to  overflowing  with  a  thick  hot  syrup  made  of 
sugar  and  water.  Seal  the  jars  tight  and  submerge  them  in  a 
tank  or  boiler  of  boiling  hot  water,  and  allow  them  to  remain 
there  until  they  are  cold.  Cover  the  boiler  and  throw  a  carpet 
or  quilt  over  it  to  retain  the  heat.  Be  sure  the  cans  are  sealed 
air  tight. — £Mrs.  R.  K.,  Pa. 

Raspberry  Preserves 

Make  a  thick  syrup  by  boiling  together  2  cups  sugar  and  % 
cup  water,  and  when  clear  add  2  cups  carefully  selected  ripe 
red  raspberries,  and  boil  5  minutes  longer.  Can  air  tight. 
This  make  1  pt. —  [Mrs.  R.  K.,  Pa. 

To  Can  Raspberries  Without  Cooking 

"Wash,  drain  and  mash  ripe,  red  raspberries.  Be  sure  that 
each  berry  is  thoroughly  mashed.  Add  an  equal  measure  of 
sugar  and  stir,  on  and  off,  for  3  or  4  hours,  or  until  all  the 
sugar  is  melted  and  the  acid  gases  have  evaporated.  Then  fill 
into  jars,  pack  tight  and  overflowing  full,  and  seal  air  tight. 
When  opened  this  will  taste  like  the  fresh  berries,  and  is  nice 
to  use  for  shortcakes. —  [Mrs.  R.  K.,  Pa. 

Canned  Strawberries 

Allow  2  qts  strawberries  for  a  1-qt  jar.  Select  only  the  fin- 
est berries,  fully  ripe  and  of  a  deep,  dark  color.  Hull,  wash 
and  drain  2  qts  berries.  Put  about  2  or  3  tablesp  berries  on 
a  plate  and  with  a  fork  crush  each  berry  and  mix  together 
thoroughly.  Put  these  crushed  berries  in  a  preserving  kettle 
with  1  cup  of  the  best  granulated  sugar  and  put  over  the  fire 
and  let  it  heat  up.  When  the  sugar  is  dissolved  put  in  what 
remains  of  the  2  qts  of  berries,  and  as  soon  as  they  have 
boiled  and  heated  through  thoroughly,  carefully  skim  them 
out,  put  them  in  a  glass  jar,  and  if  the  remaining  syrup  seems 
too  thin,  or  there  is  more  than  needed  for  filling  the  jar,  let 
it  boil  down  some  more  and  then  pour  it  boiling  hot  over  the 
berries  in  the  jar.  Never  attempt  to  do  more  than  2  qts  at  a 
time,  in  the  manner  described  above.  Any  remaining  juice 
should  be  boiled  down  to  a  jelly  with  the  addition  of  a  little 
more  sugar,  or  it  may  be  bottled  and  sealed,  to  use  as  a  fla- 
voring for  sauces,  cakes,  ice  cream  or  sherbet.  Be  sure  to  use 
only  the  best  berries,  fully  ripe  and  of  a  dark  red  color,  and 
be  sure  to  use  only  the  best  granulated  sugar.  Can  and  seal 
while  hot  and  use  the  same  precautions  as  in  canning  all  other 
fruits.  Set  away  in  a  cool,  dark  and  dry  place. —  [Mrs.  R.  B. 
v.,  Okla. 


THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK        195 


Canned   Strawberries  Without   Cooking 

Fill  a  qt  can  about  %  full  of  selected  ripe  strawberries, 
which  have  been  hulled,  washed  and  thoroughly  drained,  and 
then  pour  over  them  a  syrup  made  by  boiling  together  5  min- 
utes 1  y2  cups  sugar  and  1  cup  water.  Pour  the  syrup  over  the 
fruit  boiling  hot,  and  seal  at  once.  Screw  down  the  covers  as 
tight  as  possible  and  then  set  the  jars  in  a  pail  or  boiler  and 
fill  up  with  boiling  water,  entirely  covering  the  cans.  Cover 
the  boiler  and  throw  a  thick  cloth  or  carpet  over  it,  and  leave 
it  undisturbed  until  the  water  is  cold.  Then  take  out  the  jars, 
and  if  the  covers  can  be  screwed  any  tighter,  do  so.  This  will 
keep  very  nicely  for  a  year  or  more,  and  they  will  be  found  to 
be  of  a  delicious,  fresh  flavor  when  opened. —  [Mrs.  W.  G., 
N.  Y. 

StrawbeiTy  Preserves 

Hull,  wash,  drain  and  mash  4  qts  strawberries  and  put 
them  over  the  fire  in  a  preserving  kettle  and  bring  slowly  to  a 
boil.  Then  strain  through  a  jelly  bag,  pressing  to  extract  the 
juice.  To  every  pt  juice  add  1  pt  sugar  and  boil  all  together 
briskly  about  10  minutes,  removing  all  skum  that  arises  to 
the  surface.  Then,  add  4  qts  firm,  ripe  berries,  and  simmer 
gently  for  10  minutes,  after  which  skim  out  the  berries  care- 
fully, place  into  jars,  fill  with  the  boiling  hot  syrup,  and  seal 
at  once.  Raspberries  may  be  preserved  the  same  way,  with 
the  juice  of  1  lemon  added  to  every  4  lbs  raspberries. — [Mrs. 
J.  P.  D.,  Neb. 

Baked  Canned  Rhubarb 

Cut  up  rhubarb,  mix  with  the  required  amount  of  sugar, 
and  put  in  a  covered  dish  in  hot  oven,  but  add  no  water. 
When  done,  this  will  be  a  fine,  rich  sauce.     Can  while  hot. — 

When  rhubarb  is  in  season,  can  a  lot  of  the  juice  made  into 
a  thin  syrup.  It  will  help  to  make  a  fine  jelly  when  cherries 
are  ripe  by  using  %  rhubarb  and  ^/^  cherry  juice. —  [F.  W.  C, 
N.  Y. 

To  Can  Rhubarb  in  Cold  Water 

Fresh,  tender,  young  rhubarb  need  not  be  peeled  as  a  rule. 
Wash,  cut  up  in  small  pieces,  pack  into  cans  and  fill  with 
pure,  running  cold  water.  Let  settle,  then  fill  with  water 
again,  fill  to  overflowing,  and  seal  air  tight.  Keep  in  a  cool, 
dark  and  dry  place,  and  when  wanted,  simply  drain  off  the 
water  and  proceed  as  with  fresh  rhubarb. —  [Mrs.  D.  W.  B., 
N.  Y. 


196  THE   ORANGE   JUDD   COOK  BOOK 


Canned  Rhnbarb  and  Strawberries 

Peel  rhubarb,  cut  in  small  pieces  and  put  over  fire  with  1 
Qt  sugar  and  a  very  little  water.  When  done  add  1  qt  strawber- 
ries, cook  about  5  or  10  minutes  longer,  and  can  and  seal 
while  hot. —  [Mrs.  E.  F.  H.,  N.  Y. 

Preserved  Pumpkin 

Slice  5  lbs  pumpkin  and  5  lemons  in  thin  slices,  discarding 
seeds,  add  5  lbs  sugar,  mix  thoroughly,  and  let  stand  in  an 
earthen  vessel  about  2  days,  in  a  cold  place,  after  which  let  it 
boil  gently  till  the  pumpkin  is  clear  and  almost  transparent. 
Can  and  seal. —  [Mrs.  C.  L.  C,  Mass. 

To  Can  Pumpkins  or  Squash 

As  soon  as  my  pumpkins  or  squash  show  signs  of  not  keep- 
ing, I  peel  and  cut  them  up  and  boil  them  till  well  done  in 
just  enough  water  to  cover,  then  can  and  seal  in  air-tight  jars. 
The  cans  must  be  overflowing  full  and  the  juice  must  cover 
the  pumpkins,  and  all  other  canning  precautions  must  be 
strictly  observed. —  [Mrs.  A.  W.  S.,  Pa. 

Canned  Sweet  Red  Peppers 

Wash  dry  1  pk  red  bell  peppers,  cut  a  thin  slice  from  the  stem 
end  of  each  and  remove  the  seeds,  then  cut  round  and  round 
the  peppers  with  a  pair  of  scissors,  making  strips  i/4  inch  wide 
and  as  long  as  possible — in  one  piece,  if  this  can  be  managed, 
something  like  a  cne-piece  apple  paring.  Next  cover  the  pep- 
per strips  with  boiling  water,  then  drain  off  the  water  imme- 
diately and  repeat  this  if  the  peppers  are  liked  very  mild. 
Next,  put  into  ice  water,  using  plenty  of  ice  to  chill  thoroughly, 
then  drain  and  pack  solidly  in  pt  jars.  Boil  1  qt  vinegar  and 
2  cups  sugar  to  the  consistency  of  syrup,  pour  over  the  pep- 
pers in  the  jars  and  seal.  Keep  in  a  cold,  dark  and  dry  place. 
The  above  quantities  will  fill  4  pt  jars.  Peppers  thus  prepared 
retain  their  pretty  red  color  and  are  nice  for  garnishing  salads 
or  for  making  cheese  and  pepper  sandwiches. —  [E.  G.  C, 
Washington,  D.  C. 

To  Can  Cucumbers  Sweet 

Select  firm  cucumbers  about  2  inches  long,  wash  and  dry 
carefully  and  pack  in  a  gal  jar  with  small  pieces  of  horse- 
radish. Bring  1  qt  cider  vinegar  and  1  cup  sugar  to  a  boil 
and  pour  it  over  the  cucumbers,  while  boiling  hot.  Cover  and 
set  away  in  a  cool  place  over  night.     Next  morning  drain  off 


THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK        197 


tlie  vinegar,  boil  it  over  again,  and  pour  it  over  ttie  cucum- 
bers, and  repeat  this  3  mornings,  after  which  seal  air  tight 
and  keep  in  a  cool,  dark  and  dry  place.  The  can  should  be 
full  to  overflowing  when  sealed. — [Mrs.  E.  R.  McC,  Tenn, 

Cuctunber  Preserves 

Use  firm,  ripe  cucumbers,  just  turning  yellow,  peel,  dis- 
card seeds  and  cut  in  2  or  3-inch  pieces.  Soak  in  weak  salt 
water  about  8  hours,  then  drain  and  dry  carefully  with  a  clean 
towel  and  drop  into  a  boiling  syrup  made  of  2  qts  cider  vine- 
gar, 2  V2  lbs  sugar  and  Vz  oz  mixed  whole  spices.  Put  the 
spices  in  a  small  cheese  cloth  bag.  Boil  slowly  20  minutes, 
then  take  out  the  spice  bag  and  boil  the  cucumbers  in  the 
syrup  until  they  are  soft  and  transparent,  after  which  skim 
out  the  pieces,  drain  thoroughly,  put  them  in  a  glass  jar, 
boil  syrup  until  thick,  pour  over  the  cucumbers,  and  seal. — 
[Mrs.  J.  D.  C.  Cal. 

To  Can  Peas 

Can  peas  immediately  after  gathering.  Shell  them,  and 
pack  them  in  the  cans  as  tightly  as  possible  without  breaking 
them,  add  a  little  salt,  then  fill  the  cans  overflowing  full  with 
cold  water,  pouring  it  in  until  all  bubbles  have  disappeared. 
Put  on  rubbers  and  covers,  but  do  not  screw  the  covers  tight. 
Place  the  cans  in  a  boiler  with  the  usual  packing  on  the  bot- 
tom and  between  the  cans,  pour  in  cold  water  within  an  inch 
of  the  tops  of  the  cans,  cover  the  boiler,  bring  to  a  boil,  and 
boil  for  3  hours.  Then  remove  boiler  from  fire,  screw  the 
covers  on  the  cans  as  tightly  as  possible,  and  leave  in  the  hot 
water  until  cold. — £Miss  G.  R.,  N.  Y. 

To  Can  String  Beans 

Wash,  drain  and  break  in  pieces  tender,  meaty,  freshly  gath- 
ered, green  string  beans  or  butter  beans,  and  cook  until  almost 
done  in  well  salted  water.  Turn  into  glass  jars,  and  into  each 
can  pour  2  tablesp  hot  vinegar.  Fill  up  with  the  juice  and  seal 
air  tight.  When  ready  to  use,  if  the  beans  are  too  salty,  or  the 
vinegar  taste  is  not  liked,  soak  them  a  little  in  clear  water,  and 
finish  by  cooking  them  with  salt  pork. —  [Mrs.  S.  D.  P.,  O. 

To  Can  String  Beans  With  Bacon 

String  tender,  freshly  gathered  beans,  break  in  small  pieces, 
and  put  over  the  fire  with  water  enough  to  cover.  Place  a 
piece  of  boneless  breakfast  bacon  in  the  center  of  the  beans. 
Use  about  1  lb  bacon  to  ^  pk  beans.  Cook  until  tender,  then 
pack  the  beans  in  cans,  hot.    Lay  a  slice  of  bacon  on  the  top  of 


198  THE   ORANGE  JUDD   COOK  BOOK 


each,  about 

the  beans  were  boiled,  and  seal.  Be  sure  that  there  are  no  air 
bubbles  in  the  can.  This  recipe  has  been  used  in  our  family  for 
three  generations,  and  if  properly  packed,  free  from  air,  and 
sealed  air  tight,  the  beans  thus  canned  will  keep  two  years  or 
more.  When  ready  to  use,  heat  the  beans  thoroughly,  and  they 
are  ready  to  serve,  and  will  be  found  to  be  as  delicious  as  if 
they  had  just  come  from  the  garden. — [Mrs.  E.  E.  W.,  Pa 

To  Can  Beets 

Cook  and  peel  the  beets  in  the  usual  way.  To  each  qt  beets 
allow  V2  pt  vinegar  and  V2  pt  water,  to  which  add  ^  cup 
sugar,  V2  teasp  mixed  spices,  and  a  little  horseradish,  which 
keeps  the  beets  from  turning  white.  Let  all  come  to  a  boil, 
drop  in  the  beets,  boil  up  once  more,  and  fill  the  cans  with 
beets,  being  careful  to  cover  them  fully  with  the  spiced  vine- 
gar.    Seal  air  tight  in  the  usual  way. —  [Mrs.  L.  W.,  Ind. 

Canned  Sweet  Com  I 

Only  good,  deep,  milky,  ripe  corn  is  worth  while  canning. 
Pick,  strip  and  cook  immediately,  the  same  as  for  table  use. 
Then  with  a  sharp  knife  shave  off  the  kernels,  but  do  not  cut 
too  near  the  cob.  After  cutting  scrape  the  balance  of  the  corn, 
and  milk  from  the  cobs,  using  the  back  of  a  silver  knife.  Use 
2  tablesp  salt  for  each  qt  corn  and  add  a  very  little  sugar,  if 
liked,  but  if  the  corn  is  sweet,  sugar  will  not  be  necessary. 
Put  over  the  fire  in  a  porcelain-lined  kettle  with  barely  enough 
water  to  cover  and  let  it  boil  until  tender,  stirring  frequently 
to  prevent  burning.  Fill  jars  while  boiling  hot,  to  within  i^ 
inch  of  the  top,  being  careful  to  pack  solidly  and  to  break  all 
the  air  bubbles  by  running  a  silver  spoon  or  fork  through  the 
contents.  Then  fill  to  overflowing  with  melted  butter  and 
screw  on  the  covers  tightly.  When  opened  freshen  corn  in 
clear  water,  add  a  little  milk,  and  it  will  taste  like  fresh  corn. 
—  [Mrs.  M.  R.,  N.  Y. 

Canned  Sweet  Com  II 

Pick,  cut  and  scrape  corn  as  directed  in  recipe  No.  1.  Then 
measure  the  corn  and  to  6  qts  allow  1  oz  tartaric  acid.  When 
the  corn  is  done,  dissolve  the  acid  in  some  hot  water,  stir  it  in 
and  cook  5  minutes  longer.  Then  can  and  seal  while  hot. 
When  ready  to  use,  heat  the  corn,  dissolve  V2  teasp  bi-carbon- 
ate  of  soda  in  a  little  water  or  milk  and  stir  this  into  the  corn, 
adding  seasoning  to  taste.  Canned  thus,  I  have  been  told  that 
mine  tasted  just  like  the  canned,  tinned  corn  bought  in  stores. 
s— [No  name. 


THE  ORANGE  JUDD   COOK  BOOK  199 


Canned  Corn  Salad 

To  18  ears  green  corn,  cut  from  the  cob,  add  4  large  onions, 
2  green  peppers  or  1  ripe  pepper,  1  large  white  cabbage,  all 
ellopped  fine,  scant  i/4  cup  salt  and  1  qt  vinegar.  Cook  about 
15  minutes.  Boil  together  1  qt  vinegar,  2  tablesp  ground 
mustard,  1  teasp  cinnamon,  2  cups  sugar  and  1  scant  cup  flour. 
When  done  add  to  the  above  mixture  and  cook  all  together 
until  thoroughly  mixed  and  heated  through.  Can  hot  and  seaL 
.— [R.  W.,  Mo. 

Canned  Corn  and  Tomatoes 

Select  perfectly  sound,  ripe  tomatoes  and  full  tender  corn. 
Peel  the  tomatoes  and  remove  the  green  cores.  Cut  and 
scrape  the  corn  from  the  cob  and  boil  the  corn  and  tomatoes 
together,  allowing  a  cup  of  tomatoes  to  a  qt  of  corn.  Salt,  boil 
until  done  and  can  in  the  usual  way. —  [Mrs.  J.  L.  R.,  O. 

Green  Tomato  Preserves 

For  each  lb  green  tomatoes  allow  %  lb  sugar,  and  %  lemon. 
Melt  the  sugar  in  a  very  little  water,  add  the  grated  rind  and 
juice  of  the  lemon  then  put  in  the  green  tomatoes,  washed, 
trimmed  and  cut  in  quarters,  but  not  peeled.  Cook  gently 
until  tomatoes  are  tender  and  transparent.  If  desired,  a  little 
ginger  root  can  be  cooked  with  the  tomatoes,  or  the  preserves 
can  be  flavored  with  cinnamon  or  cloves.  This  will  keep  with- 
out sealing  air  tight,  but  it  is  better  to  put  up  in  small  jars,  as 
it  is  so  rich  that  only  a  little  is  wanted  at  a  time. — [L.  S.,  Me. 

To  Can  Ripe  Tomatoes 

Use  only  good,  firm,  ripe  tomatoes,  discarding  all  doubtful 
and  imperfect  ones.  Peel  with  a  sharp  knife,  or  by  scalding 
them  in  hot  water  a  few  minutes,  cut  out  all  the  hard  parts, 
and  cut  the  tomatoes  in  halves  or  quarters,  according  to  their 
size.  Put  in  a  perfectly  clean  preserving  kettle  of  agate  ware, 
or  porcelain  lined,  and  be  sure  that  no  taste  or  odor,  or  any 
sign  of  its  previous  contents  are  noticeable.  Set  on  the  back  of 
the  stove  a  few  minutes  to  extract  the  juices,  then  draw  to  the 
front  and  let  them  boil  15  or  20  minutes,  or  until  tender,  and 
thoroughly  heated  through.  A  little  salt  to  taste  may  be 
added,  if  desired,  but  it  is  not  necessary,  and  the  tomatoes  may 
be  strained  or  not,  before  canning.  I  think  it  is  better  not  to 
strain  them.  Have  the  sterilized  jars  and  covers  ready  in  the 
usual  way,  fill  up  the  jars  with  the  boiling  hot  tomatoes,  pass 
a  silver  fork  or  spoon  through  the  contents  to  cut  the  air  bub- 
bles, shake  the  jar  gently  to  settle  contents,  and  when  you  are 
absolutely  sure  that  it  is  packed  as  closely    as   possible,    and 


200  THE  ORANGE   JUDD   COOK  BOOK 


there  are  no  more  air  bubbles  in  the  can,  fill  to  overflowing 
with  the  juice  and  screw  on  the  hot  covers  a,s  tight  as  possible. 
Put  no  more  of  the  juice  in  the  cans  than  necessary.  The  sur- 
plus juice  can  be  bottled  and  sealed  separately  and  used  for 
soup  flavorings,  etc.  If  the  tomatoes  were  good,  and  no 
decayed  spots  or  particles  were  allowed  to  slip  in,  and  if  the 
jars  and  covers  were  properly  sterilized,  and  the  rubbers  were 
new,  and  the  covers  fitted  perfectly,  and  if  no  air  was  canned  in 
with  the  tomatoes,  then  there  is  absolutely  no  reason  why  they 
should  spoil.  Be  absolutely  sure  that  the  jars  are  sealed  air 
tight,  and  when  cooled  brush  edge  of  the  lids  with  melted  par- 
affine.  Do  not  lift  the  cans  by  the  tops  as  this  Vv^ould  loosen 
the  lids.  Slip  a  paper  bag  over  each  can,  and  store  in  a  cool, 
dark  and  dry  place.  It  is  best  not  to  attempt  to  can  tomatoes 
on  a  very  hot,  or  sultry  day,  when  the  air  is  damp  and  full  of 
unwholesome  germs,  and  it  is  also  best  not  to  attempt  to  do 
too  much  canning  in  one  day. —  [A.  G.,  Mass. 

Spiced  Ripe  Tomatoes 

To  12  lbs  ripe  tomatoes,  peeled  and  sliced,  add  4  lbs  brown 
sugar,  1  qt  vinegar,  1  tablesp  each  allspice  and  cloves  and  2 
tablesp  fcinnamon.  Cook  until  thick,  stirring  often  to  prevent 
scorching,  and  seal  while  hot. —  [Mrs.  W.  G.,  Mo. 

To  Can  Dandelion  or  Other  Greens 

Pick  the  dandelion  greens  before  they  are  in  bud  or  blossom, 
digging  down  deep  for  them.  Discard  all  the  tough  leaves  and 
buds,  wash  and  rinse  thoroughly,  and  cook  until  tender  in 
salted  water.  Then  drain  and  pack  into  the  cans  while  hot, 
and  fill  with  clear,  boiling  hot  water,  and  then  screw  on  covers 
loosely.  Be  sure  that  there  are  no  air  spaces  or  air  bubbles 
left  in  the  cans.  Place  the  cans  in  a  boiler  of  water,  proceed- 
ing in  the  usual  manner,  and  boil  for  15  minutes,  after  which 
seal  tight.  Beet,  mustard,  spinach  and  other  greens  can  be 
canned  in  the  same  way. —  [B.  F.  H.,  Me. 


Cherries  should  be  washed  well  several  times  to  remove  that 
strong  taste  so  common  to  cherry  preserves. —  [Mrs.  M.  M.  B., 
Mo. 

Mulberries  will  not  keep  if  canned  alone.  They  should  be 
combined  with  gooseberries,  or  with  the  juice  of  rhubarb. — r 
[E.  H.,  111. 

The  best  apples  for  preserving  are  the  old-fashioned  "sweet- 
ing," as  they  will  not  boil  to  pieces  like  tart  apples.  They 
require  the  same  proportions  and  treatment  as  the  peach. — < 
[Mrs.  A.  A.  W..  N.  C. 


Jellies,  Jams  and  Marmalades 

Y  the  time  winter  sets  in,  jellies,  jams  and 
marmalades  are  in  great  demand,  and  it 
therefore  behooves  the  careful  housewife 
to  put  up  a  goodly  supply  of  these  delec- 
table sweets.  When  made  at  home  from 
good  material,  by  the  following  recipes, 
they  will  prove  to  be  as  palatable  as  they  are  wholesome. 
For  jellies,  fruit  not  yet  fully  ripe  is  best,  and  for  jams, 
marmalades  or  "butters''  (which  are  almost  identical  in 
composition),  fully  ripe  fruit  m^ay  be  used  and  such  that 
are  not  perfect  enough  for  canning  whole,  but  are  never- 
theless all  right  for  cutting  up  and  boiling  down  with 
sugar.  It  is  a  waste  of  time  and  sugar  to  try  to  use  fruit 
that  is  not  good — therefore,  don't. 

Some  Jelly  Rules 

The  principal  rules  governing  jelly  making  from  fruit, 
applicable  to  almost  all  kinds  of  berries  and  fruits,  are  as 
follows:  Berries  or  fruit  should  not  be  too  ripe.  They  are  in 
the  best  state  just  before  ripening.  Use  only  sound  fruit, 
pick  over  carefully,  wash  and  drain,  mash,  and  put  over  a 
slow  fire  to  extract  the  juices.  In  the  case  of  very  juicy 
fruit,  water  need  not  be  added,  and  for  others  a  very  little 
water  will  do — just  enough  to  prevent  burning.  When  done 
and  the  juices  run  freely  from  the  fruit,  turn  into  a  jelly  bag 
and  let  drain  all  night.  Do  not  squeeze  the  bag  to  extract 
the  juice,  unless  the  recipe  especially  calls  for  such  a  proceed- 
ing, as  otherwise  the  juice  will  become  cloudy.  The  pulp 
that  remains  can  often  be  used  for  jams  or  marmalades  or 
pies,   with  the  addition  of  sugar   and  spices. 

In  the  morning  measure  the  juice,  and  then  measure  out 
the  same  quantity  of  sugar,  or  a  little  less  in  the  case  of 
naturally  sweet  fruit.  Put  the  sugar  in  the  oven  to  heat, 
but  be  careful  not  to  let  it  burn.  Put  the  juice  over  the 
fire  in  a  granite  or  porcelain-lined  kettle  kept  strictly  for 
such  purposes,  and  allow  it  to  boil  briskly  from  15  to  20 
minutes.  Then  add  the  hot  sugar,  stir  until  dissolved,  and 
boil  5  to  10  minutes  longer.  Test,  and  remove  from  the 
fire  as  soon  as  it  is  ready  to  "jell."     Pour  at  once  into  clean, 

201 


202        THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK 


warm,  dry  glasses,  placed  on  a  folded  towel  wrung  out  of 
liot  water,  cover  with  mosquito  netting,  and  let  get  cold. 
The  next  morning  cover  the  top  of  the  jelly  in  each  glass 
with  fitted  rounds  of  white  paper  dipped  in  brandy  or  alcohol, 
and  either  pour  over  a  layer  of  melted  paraffine,  or  cover  with 
several  layers  of  paper,  securely  tied  down  over  the  sides  of 
the  glasses.  Set  away  in  a  cool,  dry  and  dark  place. —  [A.  G., 
Mass. 

About  Preserving  Kettles  and  Jelly  Bags 

Never  use  a  kettle  in  which  meats,  vegetables,  pickles,  etc., 
have  been  cooked,  for  canning  or  sweet  preserving,  no  matter 
how  carefully  you  may  clean  it.  It  will  always  retain  some  of 
the  old  cooking  flavor  and  mar  the  preserve  products.  It  is 
economy  to  keep  one  or  more  good  granite  or  porcelain-lined 
kettles  specially  for  jellies,  jams  and  marmalades.  Clean  at 
once  after  each  using,  and  do  not  be  content  with  the  ordinary 
washing,  but  fill  with  hot  water,  add  a  teasp  of  baking 
soda,  and  let  stand  a  while  to  sweeten  the  kettle,  and  also 
to  remove  fruit  discolorations.  Never  use  rough  scouring 
soap  to  clean  the  inside  of  a  preserving  kettle,  as  that  would 
ruin  the  enamel  and  cause  the  contents  to  burn  so  much  more 

Jelly  bags  are  best  made  of  cheese  cloth,  of  one  or  two 
thicknesses.  Some  cooks  prefer  flannel,  claiming  that  the 
juice  will  come  through  this  clearer.  If  the  jelly  bags  are 
made  in  pointed,  oval  shape,  about  12  inches  wide  (double) 
on  top  and  tapering  down  to  3  or  4  inches  at  the  bottom, 
that  will  be  found  to  be  much  more  convenient  and  satis- 
factory. A  cheap  wire  extension  arm  used  for  hanging  up 
bird  cages  is  a  great  convenience  in  the  kitchen  in  preserving 
time.  The  jelly  bag  can  be  hung  up  on  this,  and  the  drip 
vessel  placed  on  a  chair  directly  beneath.  If  flies  or  gnats 
are  plentiful,  envelop  the  bag,  bowl  and  chair  with  a  mosquito 
netting. — [A.  G.,  Mass. 

Spiced  Apple  Jelly 

For  %  pk  sour  apples  allow  2  pts  vinegar,  1  pt  water, 
iy2  ozs  stick  cinnamon,  and  1  oz  whole  cloves.  Boil  all 
together,  and  drain  through  a  jelly  bag  over  night.  For 
every  pt  juice  allow  1  lb  sugar,  and  boil  until  it  jellies.  This 
is  nice  served  with  meat. — [Mrs.  H.  J.  T.,  Vt. 

Apple   Jelly 

Wipe  the  apples  carefully,  remove  stem  and  blossom  ends, 
cut  out  affected  parts,  and  cut  in  quarters,  discarding  all 
wormy  apples.     Put  over  the  fire  in  a  preserving  kettle  with 


THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK        203 

cold  water  to  half  cover.  Cook  slowly  until  the  apples  are 
soft.  If  a  few  elderberries  or  blackberries  are  cooked  with 
the  apples  the  color  will  be  much  improved.  Strain  through 
jelly  bag  over  night.  Next  morning  measure  juice  and  for 
each  cup  allow  %  cup  sugar.  Set  sugar  in  oven,  bcii  the 
juice  20  minutes,  add  hot  sugar,  boil  5  minutes  longer,  and 
then  turn  into  jelly  glasses. —  [Mrs.  C.  J.  H.,  Vt. 

Apple  and  Grape  Jelly 

Cook  grapes  and  apples  separately  until  soft,  then  drain 
in  separate  bags  over  night.  To  1  part  grape  juice  add  2 
parts  apple  juice,  and  allow  two-thirds  as  much  sugar  as  you 
have  combined  juice  (measured  before  boiling).  Add  sugar 
hot  to  juice,  after  it  has  boiled  20  minutes,  and  let  boil  a  few 
minutes  longer,  or  until  it  is  ready  to  "jell." — [Mrs.  J.  J.  C, 
Mich. 

Quince  Jelly 

This  may  be  made  of  parings,  if  a  little  of  the  whole 
fruit  is  added,  but  all  seeds  must  be  removed,  and  blossom 
and  stem  ends.  Almost  cover  with  cold  water,  cook  until 
very  soft,  then  strain  through  a  jelly  bag  over  night.  Allow 
%  pt  sugar  to  1  pt  juice.  Boil  the  juice  from  15  to  20 
minutes,  skim,  and  then  add  sugar  which  should  have  been 
thoroughly  heated  in  oven.  Let  boil  up  a  few  minutes,  and 
then  turn  into  glasses.  One-half  quince  and  one-half  apple 
makes  a  very  nice  jelly. —  [Mrs.  J.  L.  R.,  O. 

Red   Currant   Jelly 

Select  not  too  ripe  currants,  pick  over  carefully,  put  them 
in  a  preserving  kettle,  and  let  stand  on  back  of  range  until 
juices  draw.  Stir  occasionally  until  skins  are  broken,  and 
then  pour  into  jelly  bag  and  let  drain  over  night.  To  each 
pt  juice  allow  1  pt  sugar.  Put  sugar  in  oven  to  heat,  put 
juice  over  fire,  and  boil  and  skim  20  minutes,  then  add  hot 
sugar,  until  melted,  and  let  boil  up  again  a  few  minutes, 
after  which  remove  from  fire  and  fill  at  once  into  jelly 
glasses.  Let  them  stand  in  the  sun  as  long  as  possible  that 
day,  but  be  careful  to  cover  the  glasses  with  a  netting  to 
prevent  any  flies  from  falling  in.  Jelly  made  by  this  formula 
will  be  clear,  and  have  that  sparkle  so  much  admired  and 
desired.  Other  berry  or  fruit  jellies  can  be  made  in  the 
same  manner. —  [L.  E.  B.,  Ind. 

Black    Currant    Jelly 

Boil  black  currants  in  almost  as  much  water  as  you  have 
fruit.  Drain  in  jelly  bag  over  night,  and  for  each  qt  juice 
allow  1  pt  sugar.  Boil  3  hours.  Black  currant  needs  longer 
boiling  then  other  jellies. — [Mrs.  A.  L.  C,  Okla. 


204  THE   ORANGE   JUDD   COOK  BOOK 


Grape   Jelly 

Use  grapes  that  are  just  beginning  to  ripen,  but  not  quite 
ripe.  Pick,  wash  and  boil  slowly  with  a  very  little  water 
about  15  minutes.  Strain  through  jelly  bag  over  night, 
then  heat  juice  to  boiling  point,  add  an  equal  quantity  of 
sugar,  thoroughly  heated  in  oven,  and  boil  briskly  about  5 
minutes,  and  then  turn  at  once  into  jelly  glasses.  Green 
grape  jelly  can  also  be  made  by  this  recipe.- — [R.  M.  P.,  Mass. 

Green  Grape  Jelly 

Wash  and  pick  over  grapes  carefully,  partly  cover  with 
water,  and  let  boil  until  soft,  stirring  and  mashing  while 
they  are  cooking.  Turn  into  jelly  bag  and  let  drain  over 
night,  then  boil  juice  20  minutes,  skim,  and  to  each  pt  juice 
(measured  before  boiling)  allow  1  lb  sugar,  heated  in  the 
oven.  Let  boil  up  a  few  minutes,  and  then  turn  into  jelly 
glasses. —  [No   Name. 

Cranberry    Jelly 

Use  not  too  ripe  red  berries.  Pick  over  carefully  and  wash 
and  drain.  To  2  qts  berries  allow  1  scant  pt  cold  water,  boil 
briskly  about  15  minutes,  then  turn  into  a  jelly  bag  and  drain 
over  night.  In  the  morning  bring  the  juice  to  a  boil,  add 
2  lbs  sugar,  which  has  been  thoroughly  heated  in  the  oven, 
and  boil  all  together  about  20  minutes,  stirring  constantly. — • 
[M.    B.,   111. 

Elderberry   Jelly 

Put  the  elderberries  over  the  fire  with  barely  enough  water 
to  cover,  and  when  done  turn  them  into  a  jelly  bag  and  drain 
over  night.  When  making  elderberry  jelly  I  always  squeeze 
the  jelly  bag  to  get  out  the  good  clear  juice.  Measure  the 
juice  and  for  each  pt  allow  1  lb  sugar.  Bring  the  juice 
to  a  boil,  and  then  boil  2  0  minutes,  add  the  sugar  which 
should  have  been  heated  thoroughly  in  the  oven,  let  it  boil 
up  thoroughly  once  more,  and  pour  into  jars.  This  will  not 
get  solid  like  other  jellies.  We  like  to  eat  it  with  pancakes 
in  the  winter. —  [Mrs.  E.  B.,  N.  Y. 

Barberry  Jelly 

Boil  together  until  soft  4  qts  barberries  and  12  large,  sour 
apples,  adding  no  more  water  than  necessary.  Let  drain  over 
night,  and  for  each  pt  juice  allow  1  pt  sugar.  Put  juice  over 
fire  with  juice  of  3  oranges,  a  little  of  the  thin  orange  peel, 
(but  none  of  the  white  part)  and  Vz  lb  seedless  raisins.     Boil 


THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK        205 


until  orange  peel  and  raisins  are  soft,  then  carefully  skim 
tiiese  out,  add  the  sugar,  which  should  first  have  been 
thoroughly  heated  in  the  oven,  and  boil  about  15  minutes. — ■ 
[Mrs.  W.   H.  M.,  Mass. 

Gooseberry  Jelly 

Carefully  pick  and  wash  the  gooseberries,  and  to  each  pt 
allow  %  pt  water.  Simmer  until  berries  are  all  broken,  then 
turn  into  jelly  bag  and  let  drain  over  night.  Measure  juice 
and  boil  briskly  about  15  minutes,  then  stir  in  an  equal 
amount  heated  sugar,  and  boii  steadily  about  %  hour. — 
[L.  E.  B.,  Ind. 

Raspberry  or  Blackberry  Jelly 

Pick  berries  over  carefully,  wash  and  drain,  and  put  over 
fire  with  just  enough  water  to  keep  from  burning.  Stir  and 
mash  while  cooking,  and  when  well  done,  turn  into  jelly 
bag  and  let  drain  over  night.  Do  not  squeeze  the  bag  if  you 
want  nice,  clear  jelly.  Boil  and  skim  juice  about  10  minutes, 
then  measure,  and  for  each  pt  juice  allow  1  pt  sugar.  Heat 
sugar  and  add  it  to  the  boiling  juice.  Boil  about  15  or  20 
minutes,  or  until  it  is  ready  to  "jell." — [Mrs.  A.  C,  Va. 

Cherry  Jelly 

Sour  cherries,  not  too  ripe,  are  best.  Wash  and  drain,  add 
a  very  little  v^ater,  and  let  simmer  slowly  i/^  hour,  then  turn  into 
jelly  bag,  and  let  drain  all  night.  For  2  cups  juice  allow  iy2 
cups  sugar.  Bring  juice  to  boiling  point,  boil  20  minutes,  then 
add  sugar,  which  should  have  been  thoroughly  heated  in  the 
oven,  boil  up  briskly  for  another  few  minutes,  and  turn  at 
once  into  jelly  glasses.  The  jelly  w^ill  be  firmer  if  14  part 
currant  juice  is  added  to  the  cherry  juice. — [Mrs.  O.  M. 
P.,  N.  H. 

Plum    Jelly 

Choose  plums  that  are  not  too  ripe  and  put  over  fire  with 
water  enough  to  half  cover.  Boil  until  soft,  turn  into  jelly 
bag  and  let  drain  over  night.  Measure  juice,  add  an  equal 
amount  sugar,  and  boil  and  skim.  "When  it  is  ready  to  "jell," 
which  will  be  when  it  is  thick  enough  to  drop  slowly  from  a 
spoon,  turn  at  once  into  jelly  glasses. — [Mrs,  F.  M.  C,  Tex. 

Strawberry  Jelly 

Use  only  fine  colored,  fresh  berries;  pick  over  carefully, 
wash  and  drain,  and  put  in  a  porcelain-lined  kettle  on  back 


206  THE  ORANGE  JUDD   COOK  BOOK 


of  range  to  draw  juices.  Stir  and  mash  with  a  wooden  spoon. 
When  juice  runs  freely,  turn  berries  into  jelly  bag  and  let 
drain  over  night.  Allow  1  lb  sugar  for  each  pt  juice.  Let 
juice  boil  about  15  minutes,  then  add  heated  sugar,  and  boil 
10  minutes  longer.  The  left-over  pulp  can  be  used  for  jam. — 
[F.  L.,  Wis. 

Rhubarb  Jelly 

To  4  qts  rhubarb  cut  in  small  pieces,  but  not  peeled,  add 
about  V2  or  %  qt  washed  cherry  leaves,  about  1  pt  fresh 
water,  and  cook  slowly  until  rhubarb  is  tender.  Strain  through 
a  jelly  bag  over  night.  For  each  pt  juice  allow  1  pt  sugar. 
Bring  juice  to  a  quick  boil,  boil  about  20  minutes,  skim, 
and  then  add  sugar,  which  should  have  been  previously  heated 
in  the  oven.  Boil  briskly  another  5  minutes,  and  then  turn 
at  once  into  jelly  glasses.  Instead  of  cherry  leaves,  orange 
juice  can  be  used  as  a  flavoring.  The  cherry  leaves  will  im- 
part to  the  rhubarb  a  delicious  flavor  of  cherries. — [Mrs.  W. 
V.   L.,   Me. 

Tomato     Jelly 

Wash,  drain  and  cut  in  halves  4  qts  yellow  tomatoes.  Boil 
until  soft,  then  turn  into  jelly  bag  and  let  drain  over  night. 
Allow  Vz  cup  granulated  sugar  for  each  cup  juice.  Let  juice 
boil  20  minutes,  then  turn  in  the  sugar,  heated,  and  boil 
about  15  minutes  longer.  I  allow  1  slice  lemon,  pits  removed, 
to  every  qt  juice,  and  skim  lemon  out  just  before  turning 
jelly  into  glasses. — [Mrs.  G.  W.  A.,  Pa. 

Rules  for  Preparing  Jams  and  Marmalades 

Fully  ripe  fruit  or  berries  can  be  used  for  jams,  but  it  will 
not  pay  to  use  over-ripe  fruit.  Berries  should  be  carefully 
picked  over,  washed  and  drained  and  put  on  the  back  of  the 
stove  in  an  agate  or  porcelain-lined  kettle  with  %  or  % 
the  amount  of  sugar.  Stir  and  when  the  sugar  is  melted, 
bring  the  kettle  to  the  front  of  the  stove  and  let  the  jam 
boil  until  it  begins  to  thicken,  which  will  be  from  20  to  30 
minutes.  Stir  frequently  to  prevent  burning  and  skim  off 
all  skum  that  rises  to  the  surface.  Apples,  peaches,  pears, 
etc.,  should  be  peeled,  cored  and  quartered  and  if  the  fruit 
is  not  juicy  enough,  add  a  very  little  water.  Jams  may  be 
put  up  the  same  as  jellies,  in  glasses  or  jars,  and  no  air- 
tight sealing  is  necessary,  a  layer  of  melted  paraffine  and  a 
cover  of  paper  being  suflicient.  Set  away  in  a  cool,  dark  and 
dry  place. — [A.  G.,  Mass. 


THE   ORANGE   JUDD   COOK  BOOK  207 


Cherry  Jam 

Stone  S  lbs  cherries,  stir  in  2  lbs  sugar,  let  stand  10  or 
12  hours,  then  boil  slowly  until  converted  into  a  smooth 
jam. — [E.   K.,   Mass. 

Strawberry  Jam 

Hull,  wash  and  drain  the  berries,  mash,  add  an  equal 
quantity  sugar  or  a  little  less  sugar  if  very  sweet  jams  are 
not  liked,  put  over  a  slow  fire,  bring  to  the  boiling  point 
and  boil  about  20  minutes.  Test  by  taking  out  a  teaspoonful 
on  a  saucer,  and  if  the  liquid  does  not  jelly  when  cool,  boil 
a  little  longer.  About  %  part  currants  added  to  the  straw- 
berries is  a  great  improvement. —  [A.  G.,  Mass. 

Raspberry  and  Blackberry  Jam 

To  each  lb  berries  add  %  lb  sugar,  and  if  berries  are  not 
juicy  enough,  a  very  little  water.  I  always  add  some  currants 
to  raspberry  jam  as  they  provide  just  the  necessary  acidy 
flavor.  Some  people  like  a  little  cinnamon  flavoring.  Boil 
until  it  thickens  and  the  juice  is  ready  to  jelly.  Put  away 
in  glasses  or  jars  and  seal  with  paraffine. — [A.  G.,  Mass. 

Rhubarb   Jam 

To  2%  lbs  rhubarb,  cut  in  small  pieces,  add  2  lbs  sugar, 
1  cup  vinegar,  1  teasp  cinnamon  and  Vq  teasp  cloves.  Boil 
about  Vz  hour  and  when  thick  pour  in  glasses  and  seal  with 
paraffine. — [A.  McL.,  111. 

Wild  Cherry  and  Grape  Jam 

Boil  2  gals  wild  cherries  with  barely  enough  water  to 
cover  them,  until  they  are  soft  enough  to  rub  through  a  sieve. 
In  another  vessel  boil  1  gal  green  grapes  the  same  way,  and 
afterwards  combine  the  pulp  of  the  two  with  V2  as  much 
sugar  as  pulp,  and  boil  together  about  2  hours. — [Mrs.  J, 
K.,  Neb. 

Cold  Currant  Jam 

Stir  well  together  equal  parts  mashed  currants  and  granu- 
lated sugar,  let  stand  over  night,  then  stir  up  again  and 
pour  into  glass  jars,  seal,  and  keep  in  a  cool  place.  Be  sure 
every  currant  is  mashed.  This  is  nice  to  serve  with  roast 
meats.— [Mrs.  D.  J.  C.  N.  Y. 


208  THE   ORANGE  JUDD   COOK  BOOK 

Baked  Gooseberry  Jam 

Use  gooseberries  that  are  not  too  ripe,  place  a  layer  in  an 
earthern  or  granite-ware  vessel,  cover  with  sugar,  put  in 
another  layer  of  gooseberries,  cover  with  sugar  again,  and  so 
on  until  the  pan  is  almost  filled.  Then  add  1  pt  w^ater  to  every 
6  lbs  gooseberries,  place  in  a  moderately  heated  oven,  and 
leave  it  there  till  the  sugar  is  converted  into  a  syrup  and  the 
contents  begin  to  boil.  Put  up  in  small  jars,  not  forgetting 
to  pour  a  fine  sheet  of  paraffine  over  the  top,  which  will 
prevent  moulding. — [P.  L.  B.  R.,  Ct. 

Tomato  Jam 

To  4  lbs  peeled  and  sliced  ripe  tomatoes,  add  2  lbs  sugar, 
1  pt  vinegar  and  salt,  cinnamon  and  cloves  to  taste.  Cook 
till  thick,  like  fruit  jam. —  [Mrs.   J.   B.   M.,  N.   Y. 

Rhubarb    and   Raspberry    Jam 

Peel  and  cut  rhubarb  in  small  pieces  and  for  each  lb  allow 
1  lb  raspberries  and  2  lbs  sugar.  Boil  together  slowly  and 
steadily  until  it  jellies  when  a  little  is  tested  on  a  cold 
plate.  Strawberries  and  rhubarb  may  be  combined  in  the 
same  way. —  [Mrs.  N.  M.  P.,  N.  H. 

Damson  Jam 

Allov/  "A  lb  sugar  for  each  lb  fruit.  Wash  fruit  and  boil 
with  just  enough  water  to  prevent  scorching.  When  soft 
press  through  a  colander,  then  return  the  pulp  to  the  kettle, 
add  the  sugar  and  a  few  blanched  kernels  of  the  plums.  Boil 
gently  until  the  consistency  of  jelly,  skimming  off  the  skum. 
After  it  has  cooled  off  a  little,  pour  into  small  earthern  jam 
pots,  jelly  glasses  or  jars.  Damson  jam  is  an  excellent  side 
dish  to  serve  with  meats,  game  or  poultry. —  [O.  M.  P.,  N.  H- 

Baked      Peach      Jam 

Use  ripe,  perfect  fruit,  pare  and  remove  the  stones,  mash 
as  fine  as  possible,  turn  into  an  earthernware  or  agate  dish, 
place  in  a  hot  oven  and  cook  for  an  hour  or  more.  Then  put 
in  about  half  as  much  sugar  as  there  is  fruit  and  cook  1 
or  2  hours  longer,  or  until  the  consistency  of  jam. — [J.  L. 
R.,  O. 

Apricot      Jam 

Select  good,  ripe  fruit  and  to  every  lb,  after  peeling  and 
stoning,  allow   %   ib  sugar.     Crack  a  few  of  the  stones,  take 


THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK        209 


out  the  kernels  and  blanch  them,  after  which  add  them  to 
the  fruit  with  the  sugar.  Cover  well  and  let  stand  over 
night.  The  following  morning  put  over  the  fire  and  boil 
slowly  about  1  hour  or  until  the  consistency  of  jam. — [Miss 
N.  L.  R.,  Ct. 

Cherry  Marmalade 

Remove  stones  from  cherries,  crush  the  stones,  put  in  a 
Tiettle  with  a  small  quantity  of  water,  and  boil  until  the 
flavor  is  extracted.  Put  fruit  in  a  preserving  kettle,  add 
a  little  clear  water  and  boil  until  reduced  to  a  pulp,  stirring 
frequently  with  a  wooden  spoon  to  prevent  sticking.  For 
each  lb  fruit  allow  %  lb  sugar  and  add  sugar  to  the  strained 
water  in  which  the  stones  have  been  cooked  and  boil  until 
transparent  bubbles  appear  en  top.  Pour  this  syrup  over  the 
fruit  and  continue  boiling  and  stirring  until  thick  and  smooth. 
—  [A.  G.,  Mass. 

Orange  Marmalade 

Boil  the  thin  yellow  peel  (none  of  the  white  rind)  of  1  doz 
ripe  oranges  in  just  enough  water  to  cover.  When  tender,  drain 
off  the  water  and  chop  the  peel  in  fine  pieces.  Peel  the  oranges, 
pull  to  pieces,  and  discard  all  the  white  parts,  fibre  and  seeds, 
and  add  1  cup  sugar  to  each  cup  orange  pulp.  Let  this 
stand  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved,  stirring  frequently,  then 
add  the  boiled  and  chopped  orange  peel  and  boil  all  together 
about  20  minutes.  If  the  oranges  are  not  tart,  the  juice  of 
1  lemon  may  be  added. —  [Mrs.  H.  L.,  Va. 

Quince   Marmalade 

"The  fruit  should  be  quite  ripe.  Peel,  quarter  and  core,  and 
cook  until  soft  in  a  very  little  water,  then  rub  through  a 
sieve,  weigh  the  pulp,  add  an  equal  weight  of  sugar,  and  boil 
slowly  until  of  the  proper  consistency. —  [Mrs.  A.  C.  McP.,    O. 

3Iixed    Fruit    Marmalade 

Take  V2  pk  each  peaches,  pears,  apples  and  quinces.  Pare, 
core  and  slice  at  night,  pack  into  a  porcelain-lined  kettle  in 
alternate  layers  of  sugar  and  fruit.  Allow  ^^  lb  sugar  ^to 
1  lb  fruit.  Next  morning  put  over  a  moderate  fire  and  cook 
about  6  hours,  stirring  frequently  with  a  wooden  spoon. — 
[R.  R.,  Md. 

Muskmelon  Marmalade 

Peel  and  cut  up  muskmelons,  discarding  the  soft  pulp 
and  seeds.     Cut  the  melon  in  small  pieces,  add  a  very  little 


210  THE  ORANGE  JUDD   COOK  BOOK 


water  and  the  juice  of  1  lemon  to  every  2  melons.  Boil  until 
thick,  then  measure  and  add  %  as  much  sugar,  and  boil 
again  until  very  thick. —  [Mrs.  P.  J.  S.,  Tex. 

Watermelon  Marmalade 

Cut  out  the  red  meat  from  a  ripe  watermelon,  discard  the 
seeds,  squeeze  out  the  juice,  add  Vz  as  much  sugar  as  there 
is  juice  and  boil  down  to  a  thick  syrup,  then  put  in  the 
chopped  red  pulp  and  cook  until  clear.  Seal. — [Mrs.  P.  J.  S., 
Tex. 

Cranberry    and    Quince   Marmalade 

Cook  cranberries  with  a  very  little  water  until  soft,  and 
rub  through  a  colander.  Proceed  the  same  way  with  quince 
cores  and  peelings  and  mix  together  equal  quantities  of  each 
pulp.  Add  1  cup  sugar  to  every  2  cups  of  the  mixture  and 
cook  until  it  is  the  consistency  of  marmalade.  This  is  nice 
served  with  chicken. — [L.  E.  C,  Cal. 

Apple  Butter 

Bring  10  gals  sweet  cider  to  the  boiling  point,  then  add 
1  bu  apples,  peeled,  cored  and  quartered.  Let  boil,  skim 
the  froth  as  it  rises,  and  stir  frequently.  When  it  has  boiled 
down  about  half,  add  sugar  or  molasses  to  suit  taste  and  boil 
again  until  a  little  when  put  on  a  cold  dish  and  cooled  will 
form  a  nice  crust  on  top.  Add  a  little  cinnamon  and  cloves, 
or  any  spices  to  suit  taste,  and  put  away  in  crocks  or  jars. — 
[Unidentified. 

Crab  Apple  Butter 

Wash  1/^  bu  crab  apples,  trim  off  blossom  and  stem  ends, 
cut  each  apple  in  half,  and  remove  any  wormy  parts.  Put 
in  a  preserving  kettle  over  the  fire,  cover  with  cold  water, 
let  boil  until  very  soft,  and  after  it  has  cooled  a  little,  rub 
through  a  wire  sieve.  To  3  cups  of  the  sifted  pulp,  add  1 
eup  sugar,  let  come  to  the  boiling  point  and  boil  20  minutes. — 
[Mrs.  D.  L.  A.,  Ore. 

Peach   Butter 

Select  ripe  peaches,  peel,  remove  stones  and  defective  parts, 
cut  in  small  pieces  and  put  over  the  fire  in  a  porcelain-lined 
kettle  with  a  very  little  water.  Boil  slowly  until  soft,  then 
press  through  a  colander  and  to  each  qt  of  the  strained 
pulp,  add  l^A  lbs  sugar.  Boil  slowly  1  hour,  stirring  fre- 
quently to  prevent  burning.  If  liked,  this  jam  can  be  seasoned 
sparingly  with  cloves,  cinnamon  or  allspice. —  [Mrs.  C.  G.,  N.  D. 


THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK  211 


Plum  Butter 

Wash,  put  into  a  kettle,  cover  with  water,  boil  until  thor- 
oughly cooked,  then  let  cool,  and  rub  through  sieve  or 
colander.  A  medium  sized  muskmelon  added  to  every  2 
qts  of  plums  greatly  improves  the  flavor,  but  may  be  omitted. 
For  each  lb  fruit  pulp,  allow  V2  lb  sugar.  Boil  gently  about 
3  hours.  Skim  well  and  stir  often.  Put  into  glass  jars 
and  seal  tight. — [Mrs.   W.   S.,  Neb. 

Tomato  Butter 

Peel  10  lbs  ripe  tomatoes,  add  4  lbs  apples,  peeled,  cored 
and  quartered,  and  put  in  a  preserving  kettle  over  a  moderate 
fire.  Let  boil  about  1  hour,  stirring  occasionally  to  prevent 
scorching,  then  add  8  lbs  sugar,  the  juice  of  4  lemons,  and  1 
tablesp  powder  ginger.  Cook  slowly  and  stir  frequently,  till 
reduced  to  the  consistency  of  marmalade. — [Miss  J.  R.  W., 
Kan. 

Pumpkin   or  Squash  Butter 

Peel  pumpkins,  remove  pulp  and  seeds,  cut  into  small 
pieces  and  stew  in  a  very  little  water  until  soft,  then  add 
V2  as  much  sugar  and  spices  to  suit  taste,  and  boil  down  until 
very  dark  or  until  it  cannot  boil  any  longer  without  sticking, 
stirring  constantly.  Put  up  boiling  hot  in  fruit  jars.  Squash 
butter  is  made  the  same  way.  To  dry  pumpkin,  stew  until 
soft  in  as  little  water  as  possible,  then  mash  fine,  adding  1 
tablesp  sugar  or  molasses  to  each  pt  pumpkin,  and  stew  slowly 
until  it  is  almost  dry.  Spread  about  1  inch  thick  on  greased 
pans  and  place  in  a  moderate  oven  till  thoroughly  dry,  turn- 
ing around  when  necessary.  After  it  is  dry  and  cold  put  up 
in  paper  bags  and  hang  in  a  dry  place.  Soak  pieces  of  this 
in  a  little  water  over  night  when  wanted  for  pies. — [Mrs.  J. 
C.   T..   Ore. 

Crabapple  Jumble 

To  7  lbs  crabapples,  quartered  and  cored,  but  not  pared, 
add  1  lb  sugar,  2  lbs  seeded  raisins,  and  yellow  peel  and  pulp 
of  2  oranges,  discarding  seeds  and  white  parts.  Cook  all 
together  with  just  enough  water  to  dissolve  sugar.  When 
done  it  should  be  of  a  thick,  honey-like  consistency,  and  a 
clear,  reddish  amber  in  color.  This  will  make  about  1  gal 
and  will  keep  indefinitely,  sealed  in  a  jar. — [Mrs.  E.  G.  P.r 
N.  Y. 

Spiced  Cranberries 

Tie  up  in  a  small  cheese  cloth  bag,  2  tablesp  ground  cinna- 
mon, 1  tablesp  ground  cloves  and   Vq  tablesp  ground  allspice. 


212        THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK 

and  simmer  slowly  %  hour  in  1  cup  water.  Then  add  to  the 
spiced  water  7  lbs  cranberries,  Zy2  lbs  sugar  and  2  cups  cider 
vinegar.  Cook  slowly  until  as  thick  as  marmalade.  Pour 
into  glasses  and  when  perfectly  cool,  seal  with  melted  paraf- 
fine,  or  cover  securely  with  paper. —  [N.  M.  P.,  N.  H. 

Quince  Honey 

Peel  and  grate  3  or  4  good  sized,  ripe  and  juicy  quinces, 
and  add  to  a  briskly  boiling  syrup  made  of  3  pts  sugar  and 
1  pt  water.  Boil  20  minutes  after  the  quince  has  been  added. 
As  quick  as  the  quinces  are  grated,  turn  them  into  the 
syrup.  Allow  the  kettle  to  stand  on  the  back  of  the  stove 
until  all  are  in. — £Mrs.  D.  A.  F.,  Pa. 

Fig   Paste 

"Wash  and  cut  fine  1  lb  figs,  add  1  qt  cold  water,  bring  slowly 
to  the  boiling  point,  and  then  cook  slowly  1  hour.  Next  add 
3  cups  sugar,  and  cook  until  it  thickens  like  jelly  when  a  little 
of  it  is  cooled.  Settle  in  jelly  glasses.  This  is  very  nice  to 
eat  with  warm  biscuits,  or  for  layer  cake,  and  is  excellent 
to  make  sweet  sandwiches  for  the  children's  lunch. — [Mrs. 
J.   D.,   N.   Y. 


It  is  best  not  to  try  to  make  large  quantities  of  jellies  or 
jams  at  one  time.  When  made  in  small  quantities — a  quart  or 
two  at  a  time— they  turn  out  much  better. —  [A.  G.,  Mass. 

A  little  lemon  juice  added  to  blackberry  jam  when  it  is 
boiling  improves  the  flavor. — [No  name. 

If  you  object  to  the  raspberry  and  blackberry  seeds  in  jam, 
run  them  through  a  fine  wire  sieve  after  boiling  the  berries 
until  soft,  and  before  adding  the  sugar. — [A.  G.,  Mass. 

By  adding  V4,  apple  pulp  to  %  blackberry  pulp,  a  nice  jelly 
of  improvsd   flavor  is  obtained. —  [A.    G.,   Mass. 

For  strawberry  jam,  I  use  the  following  proportions:  4  lbs 
strawberries,  2  lbs  sugar,  1  pt  currant  juice. — [L.  E.  B.,  Ind. 

An  open  box  of  thyme  placed  in  the  closet  in  which  jams, 
jellies  and  preserves  are  stored  v/ill  prevent  mould  from 
gathering:  on  them, —  [Mrs.   M.   A.   P..  iii- 


Picklin^^^Soup  and  Sweet 

VERY  housewife  who  can  procure  or  has 
at  her  disposal  the  necessary  ingredients, 
is,  or  should  be,  interested  in  pickling 
recipes,  since  pungent  and  spicy  relishes  are 
generally  considered  necessary  adjuncts  to 
a  well  equipped  table.  They  can  be  made 
at  home  at  small  expense  and  with  httle  trouble  and 
expenditure  of  time.  The  bulk  of  pickling  is  done  in  the 
cooler  months  of  fall,  and  if  only  therefor  alone,  the  work 
is  or  would  seem  to  be  much  less  laborious  than  the  can- 
ning and  preserving,  which  must  be  done  during  the  warm 
summer  season,  when  most  of  the  fruit  ripens.  When  the 
directions  call  for  air-tight  sealing,  the  usual  canning  pre- 
cautions should  be  carefully  observed.  Good  vinegar,  sugar 
and  spices  are  as  necessary  to  success  as  good  fruit  and 
vegetables,  for  however  fine  the  latter  may  be,  if  the  former 
are  of  an  inferior  quality,  the  finished  product  w411  be  most 
unsatisfactory.  Among  the  following  are  a  choice  variety 
of  pickling  recipes,  sour,  sweet  and  spicy,  which  can  be 
varied  or  modified  to  suit  individual  tastes. 

To  Salt  Down  Cucumbers  For  Pickles 

Have  ready  a  perfectly  clean  jar,  crock,  or  keg — whether 
the  receptacle  is  glass,  stone,  or  wood  is  immaterial,  as  long 
as  it  is  clean  and  does  not  leak.  Use  only  good,  firm  cucum- 
bers, not  too  large,  and  cut  them  from  the  vines  with  a  pair 
of  sharp  scissors,  leaving  about  %  inch  stem  on  each.  Never 
pull  them  from  the  vines,  and  always  handle  them  carefully 
so  as  not  to  bruise  them.  Wash  clean  and  wipe  dry.  Put  a 
2  or  3-inch  layer  of  coarse  salt  in  the  bottom  of  the  keg,  then 
a  layer  of  closely  packed  cucumbers,  cover  with  salt,  and  pro- 
ceed in  this  way  until  all  the  cucumbers  are  used,  topping  off 
with  a  layer  of  salt,  and  over  that  a  layer  of  freshly  picked 
grape  leaves.  Use  plenty  salt — there  is  more  danger  in  using 
too  little  than  too  much.  Pour  in  cold,  hard  water  to  cover, 
put  a  clean  white  cloth  over  the  top,  tucking  in  the  edges 
snugly  down  the  sides,  then  put  in  an  inverted  plate,  or  a 
hard  board  to  fit,  and  weigh  it  down  with  a  large,  clean  stone, 

213 


214  THE   ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK 


to  keep  the  cucumbers  well  under  brine.  Cover  the  keg  and 
set  away  in  a  cool  place.  Cucumbers  may  be  added  from  time 
to  time  as  they  are  gathered,  with  some  more  salt,  until  the 
crock  is  full.  Be  careful  to  keep  the  cucumbers  always  well 
under  the  brine,  and  if  there  should  be  too  much  brine,  throw 
some  of  it  away.  When  removing  cloth,  plate,  and  stone,  do 
so  carefully,  and  if  any  scum  has  gathered,  wash  thoroughly 
before  returning  to  the  crock.  When  the  pickles  are  wanted 
for  table  use,  take  out  enough  to  last  about  one  week,  freshen 
them  in  clear,  cold  ■\rater  baths,  until  they  are  plump  and  just 
right  to  the  taste,  changing  the  water  frequently  and  tasting 
a  pickle  occasionally  to  see  if  it  is  too  salty.  The  pickles  are 
then  ready  to  be  put  in  cold  vinegar  with  any  preferred  spices, 
and  in  about  10  hours  or  less  they  will  be  ready  for  use.  A 
small  bunch  of  dill  put  in  the  vinegar  imparts  a  delightful 
flavor.     Cover  the  jar,  and  set  in  a  cool  place. —  [A.  G.,  Mass. 

To  Salt  Down  String  Beans 

Select  firm,  meaty,  juicy  and  tender  beans.  Wash  and  drain, 
string  and  break  or  cut  up  in  small  pieces.  If  the  beans  are 
large  and  meaty,  and  cut  up  fine,  on  the  bias,  the  result  will 
be  much  more  satisfactory.  Pack  the  beans  into  a  crock  in 
alternate  layers  with  salt,  beginning  and  topping  off  with  a 
layer  of  salt.  Keep  in  a  moderately  warm  place  so  the  salt  will 
dissolve  and  form  a  brine,  which  should  cover  the  beans  well. 
Beans  and  salt  may  be  added  from  day  to  day  until  the  jar  is 
full.  Then  cover  inside  with  a  clean  cloth,  plate  or  board  and 
weight  down  with  a  clean  stone.  Be  sure  that  the  brine  covers 
the  beans.  Cover  the  crock,  tie  over  with  cloth  or  paper,  and 
set  away  in  a  cool  place. — [E.  R.  G.,  R.  I. 

To  Salt  Down  Whole  Ripe  Tomatoes 

Ripe  and  perfectly  sound  tomatoes  may  be  kept  for  winter 
use  by  simply  packing  them  carefully  in  large  stone  jars  and 
pouring  over  them  a  very  strong  brine.  Cover  tight  to  keep 
out  the  air.  When  wanted  for  use,  take  out  the  required 
number  of  tomatoes  and  soak  them  24  hours  in  cold  water. 
They  can  then  be  peeled  and  sliced,  and  will  taste  as  though 
they  had  just  come  from  the  vines. —  [Mrs.  E.  L.,  Mass. 

Cucumber  Pickles  I 

To  1  gal  good  cider  vinegar  add  2  ozs  ginger  root,  1  oz  tur- 
meric, 1  oz  whole  black  pepper,  1  oz  whole  cloves,  1  oz  chili 
peppers,  1  lb  salt,  and  %  lb  powdered  mustard.  Mix  the  mus- 
tard and  turmeric  in  a  little  of  the  cold  vinegar,  and  boil  all 
together  about  15  or  20  minutes.  When  cold  pour  over  cucum- 
bers that  were  washed,  wiped  dry  and  packed  in  a  jar. —  [K. 
A.  D..  N.  D. 


THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK        215 


Cucumber  Pickles  n 

To  1  gal  best  cider  vinegar  add  2  ozs  ground  mustard,  2  ozs 
whole  mustard,  2  ozs  whole  black  pepper,  2  ozs  cinnamon  bark 
broken  in  pieces,  1  oz  ginger  root,  ^  lb  salt,  and  a  piece  of 
alum  about  the  size  of  a  small  hickory  nut.  This  is  enough 
to  fill  a  2-gal  jar,  packed  with  cucumbers.  If  not  enough 
cucumbers  are  at  hand  to  fill  the  jar,  some  more  may  be 
added  from  time  to  time,  but  be  sure  that  all  the  cucumbers 
are  well  covered  with  the  vinegar. —  [Miss  L.  M.  B.,  N.  Y. 

Cucumber  Pickles  m 

To  1  gal  good  cider  vinegar  add  1  cup  grated  horseradish, 

1  cup  salt,  and  2  cups  ground  mustard.  Dissolve  the  mustard 
in  a  little  vinegar,  and  then  add  to  the  rest  and  pour  all  cold 
over  the  cucumbers  packed  in  a  jar.  Be  careful  that  every 
cucumber  is  well  covered. — £L.  E.  W.,  Mich. 

Cucumber  Pickles  IV 

Cui  cucumbers  from  vines  with  sharp  scissors,  when  about 

2  or  3  inches  long,  allowing  about  %  inch  stem  to  remain  on 
each.  For  1  pk  cucumbers  allow  1  cup  coarse  salt  and  make 
a  brine  sufficient  to  cover  the  cucumbers,  and  pour  it  over 
them  boiling  hot.  Let  stand  for  a  day,  drain  off,  and  repeat 
this  twice,  using  new  brine  each  time,  and  allowing  24  hours 
between  each  change.  On  the  fourth  day  drain  off  the  brine, 
pour  over  clear,  boiling  water,  and  let  stand  24  hours;  then 
drain  and  pack  the  cucumbers  in  jars,  sprinkling  among  them 
some  whole  cloves,  allspice,  cinnamon,  and  any  other  spices 
liked,  and  to  each  gallon  jar  of  pickles  add  a  piece  of  alum 
the  size  of  a  small  hazelnut.  Pour  over  hot  vinegar  to  cover 
and  when  cold,  cover  the  top  with  horseradish  leaves.  The 
pickles  must  always  be  kept  well  under  the  vinegar.  For 
sweet  pickles  melt  1  cup  sugar  in  each  qt  vinegar. — [Mrs.  G., 
Wis. 

Dill  Pickles 

Wash  sound,  medium  sized  pickles  and  put  them  to  soak 
over  night  in  a  brine  made  of  1  cup  salt  to  2  gals  water.  Next 
morning  wipe  the  cucumbers  dry,  put  a  layer  in  a  jar,  then  a 
layer  of  freshly  gathered  grape  leaves,  another  layer  of 
cherry  leaves  and  one  of  dill,  then  another  layer  of  cucum- 
bers, and  so  on  until  the  jar  is  full.  Cover  with  a  fresh  brine 
prepared  the  same  as  directed  above,  cover  with  a  cloth, 
weight  down  with  a  board  and  stone,  so  that  the  cucumbers 
will  be  well  covered  with  the  brine,  cover  the  jar,  and  set  away 
in  a  cool  place. —  [M.  S.  L.,  Wis. 


216        THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK 


Sweet  Pickles 

Wipe  clean  200  small,  firm  cucumbers  and  let  them  stand 
over  night  in  salt  water.  In  the  morning  drain,  wipe  dry, 
and  drop  them  into  3  qts  best  cider  vinegar,  to  which  has 
been  added  2  ozs  each  cinnamon,  allspice  and  cloves,  3  lbs 
brown  sugar  and  a  few  small  red  peppers.  Boil  about  5 
minutes,  then  turn  into  jars  and  seal  while  hot. — [Mrs.  D.  W. 
C,  British  Columbia. 

Sweet  Cucumber  Pickles  I 

Peel  large,  ripe,  firm  cucumbers,  cut  in  quarters,  scrape  out 
the  seeds,  soak  in  weak  brine  over  night,  drain  thoroughly, 
and  scald  in  clear  boiling  water.  Make  a  syrup  of  1  qt  vinegar, 
2  lbs  sugar  and  any  preferred  spices.  Add  the  cucumbers  and 
cook  until  clear  and  tender.  Can  while  hot  and  seal  air  tight. 
—[Mrs.  J.  P.,  N.  Y. 

Sweet  Cucumber  Pickles  II 

These  are  put  up  cold  and  sealed  air-tight.  Peel  and  cut  up 
the  cucumbers  and  mix  them  with  the  following:  1  gal  best 
cider  vinegar,  1  scant  cup  salt,  2  cups  brown  sugar,  1  cup 
ground  mustard,  1  cup  grated  horseradish,  1  scant  tablesp 
alum,  and  1  tablesp  mixed  spices.  Be  sure  that  the  cucumbers 
are  well  under  vinegar. — [Mrs.  C.  P.  VanK.,  N.  Y. 

Mixed  Pickle  I 

Cut  into  quarters,  5  qts  green  tomatoes,  1  doz  green  man- 
goes and  %  doz  ripe  mangoes,  add  2  qts  small  cucumbers,  2 
qts  large  cucumbers,  sliced,  1  doz  small  white  onions  and  l^ 
doz  large  onions,  sliced,  5  bunches  celery,  trimmed  and  cut 
in  small  pieces,  2  small  heads  cauliflower  or  cabbage,  trimmed 
and  chopped,  and  boil  all  together  in  salt  water  until  tender, 
and  then  drain  through  a  colander.  Make  a  dressing  of  2  qts 
vinegar,  l^^  cups  sugar  and  add  a  paste  made  of  3  tablesp 
ground  mustard,  2  tablesp  turmeric,  3  tablesp  flour  and  V2 
teasp  cayenne  pepper.  Let  boil,  then  drop  in  the  drained 
mixed  vegetables,  let  boil  up  again  until  all  are  done,  and  then 
can  and  seal  while  hot,  the  same  as  fruit. —  [M.  L.,  Pa. 

IVIixed  Pickle  II 

Take  V2  pk  green  tomatoes,  2  large  heads  cabbage,  12  large 
cucumbers,  1  qt  small  onions,  i^  pt  grated  horseradish,  14  lb 
white  mustard  seed,  %  oz  celery  seed,  4  tablesp  pepper,  2 
tablesp  turmeric,  1%  lbs  brown  sugar  and  3  qts  cider  vine- 
gar.     Chop  the  vegetables,   sprinkle  with  salt  and   let  stand 


THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK        217 


over  night.  Next  morning  drain  off  the  salt  water,  add  the 
other  ingredients  to  the  vegetables,  mix  well,  place  over 
the  fire,  bring  to  a  boil,  and  let  boil  hard  about  5  minutes. 
Can  and  seal  while  hot. — [A.  T.  H.,  O. 

Olive  Oil  Pickles 

Peel  and  slice  small  cucumbers,  discarding  seeds,  and  let 
stand  3  hours  in  a  strong  brine,  then  rinse  thoroughly  in  cold 
water  and  drain.  Put  a  layer  of  cucumbers  in  a  jar,  sprinkle 
with  celery  salt,  white  mustard  and  black  mustard  seed,  and 
whole  black  pepper,  then  a  layer  of  cucumbers  again,  and  so 
on  until  the  jar  is  full.  Pour  over  %  cup  olive  oil  to  a  1-gal 
jar.  Cover  with  cold  vinegar  and  seal.  These  are  nice  served 
as  pickles,  or  may  be  used  with  canned  beans  or  mixed  with 
salad  dressing. — [H.  C.  H.,  Mich. 

Green  Tomato  Pickle 

Green  tomatoes  are  the  most  used  and  the  most  abused 
for  pickling.  Many  soak  them  all  night  in  salt  water,  which 
toughens  them,  and  as  a  consequence  green  tomato  pickle 
is  not  a  favorite.  Green  tomato  pickle  as  I  prepare  it  may  not 
look  so  fancy  as  some  other  pickles,  but  it  tastes  good,  and 
that  is  the  most  important  consideration.  I  put  the  tomatoes 
and  other  ingredients  all  together,  and  cook  until  the  tomatoes 
are  tender,  and  seal  while  the  mixture  is  boiling  hot.  In  this 
way  there  is  no  tiresome  soaking  in  brine,  draining,  reboil- 
ing,  etc.  One  can  put  up  a  big  lot  in  the  morning  and  have 
it  done  ready  to  put  away  before  dinner.  In  the  first  place, 
do  not  use  undersized,  very  green  tomatoes,  but  select  those 
that  are  full  grown  and  green,  almost  ready  to  ripen. 

Slice  1  gal  green  tomatoes  without  peeling,  but  cut  out  the 
hard  stem  ends.  Core,  peel  and  slice  6  good  sized  onions 
(white  onions  are  best),  add  1  pt  best  cider  vinegar,  1  pt  sugar 
(white  or  brown),  1  tablesp  each  salt,  ground  mustard,  whole 
black  pepper  and  white  mustard  seed,  i^  tablesp  whole  all- 
spice, and  1  heaping  teasp  whole  cloves.  Mix  well  together  and 
then  stew  until  tender,  stirring  often  to  prevent  burning.  If 
one  wishes  a  hot  or  extra  peppery  taste,  add  ^  teasp  red  pep- 
per, or  one  red  pepper  pod  cut  up  in  small  pieces,  with  the 
seeds  taken  out.  This  pickle  may  be  boiled  until  tender  and 
each  slice  of  tomato  retain  its  shape.  There  will  be  plenty 
of  rich  juice  without  adding  water,  but  if  it  should  become 
too  dry  before  boiled  tender,  add  a  very  little  hot  water.  Put 
up  in  glass  jars  and  seal.  The  above  given  quantities  will 
make  about  4  or  5  qts  of  pickle.  Set  away  in  a  cool,  dark 
and  dry  place.  This  same  recipe  may  be  used  for  ripe  toma- 
toes, or  half  ripe  ones. — [1.  C.  T..  Ind. 


218  THE  ORANGE  JUDD   COOK  BOOK 


Pickled  Yellow  Tomatoes 

Pour  into  a  jar  1  gal  good  cider  vinegar  salted  to  taste 
and  then  place  in  it  a  small  cheese  cloth  bag  containing  14 
teasp  each  of  whole  allspice  and  cinnamon,  1  teasp  whole 
cloves  and  a  small  piece  of  ginger  root.  Set  the  jar  in  a  cool 
place  and  from  day  to  day  drop  in  carefully  selected  small 
yellow  tomatoes,  first  pricking  each  tomato  with  a  fork,  to 
keep  them  from  bursting.  When  jar  is  full,  cover  with  a 
stout  piece  of  brown  paper  and  over  this  tie  a  strong  piece 
of  muslin.  No  cooking  is  needed,  but  be  careful  that  the 
tomatoes  are  well  covered  with  the  vinegar. — [P.  R.  H.,  no 
address. 

Pickled  Onions  I 

Select  small  white  onions  and  peel  but  do  not  cut  them. 
Place  in  wide  mouthed  bottles  and  sprinkle  some  spices  among 
them,  using  1  oz  whole  pepper,  1  tablesp  mustard  seed  and  a 
few  coriander  seeds  to  each  qt  onions.  Cover  with  cold 
vinegar  and  cork.  If  the  onions  absorb  the  vinegar,  add 
more  to  keep  them  covered. —  [Mrs.  E.  S.  D.,  Wash. 

Pickled  Onions  n 

Peel  small,  white  onions,  put  them  over  the  fire  in  boiling 
water,  and  when  they  look  clear  skim  them  out  and  put  them 
on  a  clean  folded  cloth.  When  quite  dry,  put  them  into  a  jar 
and  cover  them  with  hot  spiced  vinegar.  If  liked  a  little 
sweet,  sugar  may  be  added  to  the  spiced  vinegar  according  to 
taste.  The  onions  must  be  well  covered  with  vinegar  at  all 
times. — [Mrs.  M.  B.,  O. 

Pickled  String  Beans 

Select  tender,  meaty  string  beans  and  boil  them  in  salted 
water  until  done,  then  drain  and  drop  them  in  a  pickle  made 
of  1  qt  vinegar,  %  cup  sugar  and  2  tablesp  mixed  spices  boiled 
together.  Let  boil  up  once  more  after  the  cooked  beans  have 
been  added,  and  then  seal  in  fruit  jars  while  hot. — [Mrs.  A. 
J.  P.,  Wis. 

Beet  Pickles 

Select  tender  beets  of  uniform  size,  wash  them  clean,  but 
do  not  cut  off  the  root  ends,  and  allow  an  inch  or  two  of  the 
stem  ends  to  remain  on.  Cover  with  boiling  water  and  boil 
until  tender,  then  remove  from  the  hot  water,  plunge  into  cold 
water,  and  then  with  the  hands  rub  the  skins  and  the  root 
and  stem  ends  off.    Cut  out  all  specks  or  tough  parts,  and  slice 


THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK        219 


or  cut  into  dice,  and  pack  into  glass  jars.  Fill  overflowing 
full  with  boiling  hot  Vinegar,  and  seal.  If  a  sweet  pickle  is 
desired,  boil  some  sugar  and  spices  with  the  vinegar. —  [Mrs. 
B.  G.,  N.  Y. 

Cabbage  and  Beet  Pickle 

Chop  fine  2  qts  beets  after  they  are  boiled  and  cold.  Chop 
fine  2  qts  raw  red  cabbage  and  add  to  the  beets  and  cabbage,  2 
cups  brown  sugar,  1  cup  grated  horseradish,  1  tablesp  salt  and 
cider  vinegar  enough  to  cover.  Put  up  in  air-tight  glass  jars.  The 
beets  and  cabbage  should  be  measured  after  being  chopped,  and 
all  the  ingredients  should  be  well  mixed  together  before  pack- 
ing into  jars. — [Mrs.  W.  M.  G.,  Ct. 

Pickled  Red  Cabbage 

Select  a  nice  firm,  crisp  red  cabbage,  discard  the  outer 
leaves,  and  cut  out  the  stem  ends  and  tough  core.  Shred  the 
cabbage  fine  and  then  pack  into  a  gal  jar  in  layers,  sprinkling 
each  layer  with  a  little  salt  and  white  mustard  seed.  When  the 
jar  is  full,  pour  over  it  V'z  cup  vinegar  and  Vz  cup  brown  sugar, 
heated  together.  Have  the  jar  overflowing  full  and  seal  while 
hot.  A  small  red  pepper  may  be  added  and  a  little  horseradish 
root  if  desired. — [Mrs.  A.  J.  P.,  Wis. 

Pickled  White  Cabbage 

Chop  fine  4  large,  crisp  heads  of  cabbage  and  1  qt  onions. 
Pack  in  alternate  layers  in  a  jar,  sprinkling  a  little  salt  between 
each,  and  let  stand  over  night  then  drain.  Mix  well  together  2 
qts  cider  vinegar,  2  lbs  brown  sugar,  2  tablesp  each  ground 
mustard,  black  pepper,  cinnamon  and  celery  seed  and  1  tablesp 
each  allspice,  mace  and  alum.  Let  boil  up  once  and  pour  over 
the  cabbage  and  onions.  Let  stand  over  night,  drain,  heat  the 
liquid  and  pour  over  the  cabbage  again.  Repeat  this  process 
for  the  third  time  and  the  fourth  morning  put  all  together  in 
a  large  porcelain  kettle,  bring  to  a  boil,  and  boil  5  minutes. 
When  cold,  pack  in  small  jars  and  seal.— [M.  P.,  N.  H. 

Cauliflower  Pickle 

Trim  and  cut  up  cauliflower,  boil  in  slightly  salted  water  till 
tender,  and  for  every  head  of  cauliflower  allow  2  heaping 
tablesp  ground  mustard,  1  tablesp  flour,  1  teasp  salt,  %  cup 
brown  sugar,  and  a  little  turmeric  with  cider  vinegar  enough 
to  cover.  Let  this  mixture  come  to  a  boil,  then  pour  over  the 
cauliflower  in  cans  or  jars,  and  seal  while  hot. — [Mrs.  G.  W. 
A.,  Pa. 


220  THE   ORANGE   JUDD   COOK  BOOK 


Pickled  Peppers 

Take  the  hot  and  sweet  peppers  and  put  them  in  layers  in 
a  jar,  first  one  of  salt,  then  one  of  peppers,  until  the  jar  is  full 
and  packed  tight,  with  a  layer  of  salt  on  top.  Tie  a  cloth  over 
the  jar  and  set  away  for  winter  use.  When  wanted,  take  out 
the  required  number  of  peppers  and  put  them  in  vinegar  over 
night. — [Mrs.  P.  J.  S.,  Tex. 

Stuffed  Pickled  Peppers 

Take  large  green  peppers,  remove  the  stem  ends  and  seeds 
and  fill  with  the  following  mixture:  To  2  qts  chopped  cabbage, 
add  %  cup  mustard  seed,  2  tablesp  celery  seed  and  2  tablesp 
each  salt  and  brown  sugar.  Chopped  cucumbers  or  small  white 
onions  may  be  added,  if  liked.  Cover  each  pepper  with  the 
stem  end  and  tie  it  on  securely.  Then  put  the  stuffed  peppers 
in  a  jar,  cover  with  cold  vinegar,  and  seal  Keep  in  a  cool  and 
dark  place. — [Mrs.  B.  R.,  Nev. 

Stuffed  Pickled  Peppers  II 

Take  large  green  peppers,  cut  off  the  ends,  take  out  the  seeds 
and  let  them  soak  in  salted  water  over  night.  Then  stuff  them 
with  a  chopped  mixture  of  cabbage,  cucumbers,  green  tomatoes 
and  onions  in  equal  parts.  Put  this  mixture  in  a  bowl  or  jar 
and  add  salt,  allowing  1  cup  salt  for  a  gal  of  the  mixture,  and 
let  stand  over  night,  after  which  squeeze  out  of  the  brine,  put 
in  a  preserving  kettle  over  the  fire,  cover  with  vinegar,  and  add 
mustard  seed  and  celery  seed  to  taste.  Boil  about  15  minutes 
and  then  stuff  the  mixture  into  the  peppers,  sew  on  the  tops, 
pack  in  jars,  cover  with  vinegar,  and  put  in  some  whole  spices 
and  bay  leaves. — [Mrs.  P.  J.  S.,  Tex. 

Mustard  Pickle 

Peel,  cut  lengthwise  and  discard  seeds  of  2  qts  ripe,  firm 
cucumbers,  add  V2  doz  green  peppers,  2  qts  green  tomatoes 
and  2  heads  cauliflower,  cut  up,  2  qts  small  cucumbers  and  2 
qts  small  white  onions,  peeled.  Cover  with  a  vv^eak  brine  and 
let  stand  24  hours,  then  drain.  Prepare  dressing  as  follows: 
Mix  to  a  smooth  paste  12  tablesp  mustard,  2  tablesp  turmeric 
and  2  cups  flour,  with  a  little  cold  vinegar,  then  add  3  cups 
sugar,  4  qts  vinegar,  and  boil  all  together.  Drop  the  prepared 
pickles  in  this  dressing,  let  heat  thoroughly,  and  put  away  in 
pickle  bottles. — [Mrs.  J,  L.  S.,  Ct. 

Corn  Pickle  or  Relish 

To  12  cups  cut  sweet  corn,  add  12  cups  chopped  cabbage,  1 
cup    chopped    celery    and    1    cup    chopped    onions.       Boil    all 


THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK        221 


together  in  slightly  salted  water  until  tender  and  then  drains 
after  which  mix  with  a  dressing  prepared  as  follows:  To  1  cup 
sugar  add  1  tablesp  each  mustard,  salt  and  turmeric,  and  2 
heaping  tablesp  flour.  Mix  to  a  paste  with  a  little  cold  vinegar, 
then  add  the  balance  of  2  qts  vinegar.  Two  peppers  sliced  in 
rings  can  also  be  added  if  liked.  Boil  this  dressing  until  it 
thickens  and  the  flour  is  done.  Mix  the  vegetables  with  it  and 
can  while  hot. —  [Mrs.  M.  Z.  P.,  Wash. 

Pickled  Olives 

To  6  gals  green  olives  allow  1  lb  each  of  concentrated  lye 
and  salt,  dissolve  in  6  gals  water,  and  soak  the  olives  in  this 
solution  for  2  days,  then  drain  and  replace  with  a  fresh  solu- 
tion made  the  same  as  before,  and  soak  for  2  days  more,  after 
which  drain  the  olives  and  immerse  them  in  pure  water  from  5 
to  8  days,  according  to  the  bitterness  of  the  olives,  changing  the 
water  every  day.  Finally  put  them  in  a  brine  made  by  dissolv- 
ing 3  lbs  salt  in  4 1/^  gals  water.  They  will  keep  this  way  for 
one  season  in  a  keg,  but  if  wanted  for  long  storage,  they  should 
be  bottled  and  sealed. — [Mrs.  C.  E.  G.,  Ariz. 

Old  Virginia  Chow-Chow 

Chop  fine  8  qts  green  tomatoes,  3  small  heads  cabbage,  6 
large  onions,  6  ripe  peppers  and  6  green  peppers,  sprinkle  with 
salt,  and  let  stand  24  hours,  then  drain  thoroughly  and  add  3 
qts  good  cider  vinegar  and  1 V2  lbs  brown  sugar.  Boil  all 
together  1  hour,  then  add  8  qts  ripe  tomatoes,  3  heads  finely 
chopped  celery  and  1  pt  horseradish  and  boil  15  minutes 
longer,  after  which  add  1  tablesp  each  cloves  and  mustard,  2 
tablesp  each  white  mustard  seed,  allspice  and  ginger.  Use  the 
ground  spices,  mix  all  together  thoroughly,  and  when  done  put 
up  in  jars  and  seal. — [Mrs.  F.  E.  T.,  Cal. 

India  Relish         > 

Trim  and  cut  fine  2  heads  cauliflower,  2  heads  cabbage,  12 
onions,  12  large  green  cucumbers  and  6  green  peppers.  Meas- 
ure and  for  each  pt  chopped  vegetables,  add  1  pt  chopped 
green  tomatoes.  Mix  well,  put  in  a  large  stone  jar,  cover  with 
a  weak  brine,  and  let  stand  over  night.  Next  morning  drain 
thoroughly,  put  in  a  granite  vessel,  cover  with  good  cider  vine- 
gar, and  add  1  lb  brown  sugar,  Yz  cup  white  mustard  seed,  and 
about  a  handful  of  mixed  spices  tied  up  in  a  small  cheese  cloth 
bag.  Boil  about  3  hours,  then  turn  Into  glass  jars  and  seal 
while  hot.— [Mrs.  M.  A.  C,  Wash. 


222  THE   ORANGE   JUDD   COOK  BOOK 


Pickled  Berries 

Put  6  qts  strawberries  or  any  other  berries  into  a  stone  jar 
in  layers,  sprinkling  each  layer  with  cinnamon  and  cloves. 
When  the  jar  is  full,  pour  over  the  berries  a  syrup  made  by 
boiling  together  1  pt  vinegar  and  3  pts  sugar.  Let  stand  24 
hours,  pour  off  the  syrup,  boil  again  and  pour  over  the  berries. 
Let  stand  over  night  and  then  boil  the  berries  and  syrup 
together  slowly  for  20  minutes,  pour  into  jars  and  seal. — [L. 
E.  B.,  Ind. 

Sweet  Plum  Pickles 

"Wipe  7  lbs  firm,  ripe  plums,  pack  them  into  a  jar  and  pour 
over  them  a  syrup  made  by  boiling  together  1  qt  cider  vinegar, 
4  lbs  sugar  and  2  tablesp  cinnamon  and  1  tablesp  cloves  tied 
in  a  cheese  cloth  bag.  Let  stand  1  day,  then  pour  off  the  syrup, 
let  boil  up  again,  and  again  pour  over  the  plums.  Repeat  this 
the  next  day,  and  the  third  day  boil  up  the  plums  and  syrup 
together  and  can  and  seal  while  hot. — [S.  A.  B.,  N.  Y. 

Sweet  Pickled  Pears 

Select  firm  fruit  of  uniform  size,  not  too  ripe,  and  remove 
blossom  ends  with  sharp  pointed  knife.  For  4  lbs  fruit  allow 
1  pt  best  cider  vinegar,  2  lbs  brown  sugar  and  %  cup  whole 
spices  mixed — whole  cloves,  allspice  and  stick  cinnamon,  tied 
in  a  cheese  cloth  bag.  Boil  the  spices  with  the  vinegar  and 
sugar  about  10  minutes,  skim,  add  the  fruit,  and  cook  until 
tender.  Skim  out  the  pears,  put  in  jars,  boil  down  the  syrup, 
pour  over  the  fruit  in  jars,  and  seal.  This  syrup  is  fine  to  add 
to  mincemeat  pies  in  winter. — [Mrs.  F.  H.,  Ore. 

Sweet  Quince  Pickles 

Use  only  ripe,  sound  fruit.  Pare,  core  and  cut  in  quarters 
or  eighths.  Simmer  the  parings  and  cores  1  hour  in  just 
enough  water  to  cover,  then  drain  and  after  weighing  the 
quinces,  cook  until  tender  in  this  water,  then  drain  again,  sav- 
ing the  juice.  For  every  7  lbs  fruit  allow  4  lbs  sugar,  1  pt 
cider  vinegar,  and  1  cup  juice  in  which  the  fruit  was  boiled. 
Boil  all  together  about  15  minutes  with  2  tablesp  cinnamon 
and  1  tablesp  mace  tied  in  a  cheese  cloth  bag,  then  add  the 
fruit  and  simmer  slowly  %  hour.  Skim  out  the  fruit,  put  in 
jars,  boil  down  the  juice,  pour  over  the  fruit,  and  seal  while 
hot. — [Mrs.  M.  K.,  Kan. 

Sweet  Pickled  Peaches 

Boil  2  lbs  brown  sugar,  1  pt  best  cider  vinegar  and  1  oz  stick 
©innamon  20  minutes.     Have  ready  %  pk  peaches,  dip  quickly 


THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK        223 


in  hot  water  and  rub  off  the  fuzz  with  a  clean  towel,  stick  into 
each  peach  2  whole  cloves  and  drop  them  into  the  hot  syrup  to 
cook  until  tender.  Do  not  crowd  too  many  peaches  in  the  syrup 
at  one  time.  When  the  peaches  are  tender,  put  them  in  glass 
jars  and  cover  with  the  boiling  hot  syrup  and  seal  at  once. — 
[Mrs.  J.  B.,  Kan. 

Pickled  Cherries 

Fill  a  jar  compactly  with  good,  ripe  cherries  with  the  stems 
on,  but  be  careful  not  to  crush  the  cherries.  Pour  over  them  a 
syrup  made  by  boiling  together  1  cup  vinegar  and  1  cup  sugar. 
Seal  air-tight.  These  are  delicious  served  with  roast  meats. — 
[No  name. 

Sweet  Pickled  Apples 

These  are  preferred  by  many  to  pickled  pears  and  this  recipe 
will  prove  doubly  welcome  when  all  the  fruit  cans  for  air-tight 
sealing  are  used  up,  as  the  sweet  apple  pickle  will  keep  very 
well  in  covered  jars.  Peel,  but  leave  whole  1  pk  sweet  apples, 
make  a  syrup  of  2  qts  vinegar,  4  lbs  brown  sugar  (more  if 
desired  very  sv/eet),  Vo  oz  whole  cloves  and  allspice  or  cinna- 
mon, 1  teasp  mustard  seed  and  a  little  salt.  Heat  the  vinegar 
and  sugar  together  and  when  it  boils,  skim  well,  then  put  in 
the  spices  tied  in  a  cheese  cloth  bag,  let  boil  up  again  and  then 
add  the  apples  and  boil  slowly  until  tender.  When  done,  lift 
but  the  apples  carefully,  put  them  in  a  jar,  boil  down  the  syrup 
to  the  desired  consistency  and  sweetness,  pour  over  the  apples 
and  when  cold,  cover  securely  and  set  away  in  a  cool  place. — 
[Mrs.  E.  G.  F.,  N,  Y. 

Green  Tomato  Sweet  Pickles 

Slice  20  lbs  green  tomatoes,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  let  stand 
24  hours,  then  drain  and  boil  in  water  enough  to  cover,  adding 
3  tablesp  ground  ginger.  When  the  tomatoes  are  tender,  drain 
and  put  in  stone  jars  and  pour  over  them  2  qts  of  boiling  hot 
vinegar  which  has  been  seasoned  with  1  %  tablesp  ground  cin- 
namon, V2  tablesp  ground  cloves,  3  tablesp  ground  ginger,  2 
small  red  peppers  and  4  lbs  sugar.  Tie  the  spices  in  a  small 
cheese  cloth  bag.  When  the  jar  is  full,  lay  this  spice  bag  on 
top  of  the  pickle. —  [Mrs.  C.  W.  H.,  Pa. 

Carrot  Sweet  Pickles 

These  are  equal  to  spiced  crabapples.  Wash  and  scrape  sev- 
eral good  sized  carrots  and  boil  in  slightly  salted  water  until 
tender.    Make  a  syrup  of  vinegar,  sugar  and  spices,  same  as  for 


224        THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK 


any  other  sweet  pickle,  or  use  1  pt  vinegar,  2  pts  sugar  and  1 
teasp  each  of  cloves  and  cinnamon.  When  the  syrup  is  boiling 
slice  in  all  the  carrots  the  syrup  will  cover,  let  simmer  for  a 
while,  and  then  put  away  in  jars.  The  syrup  can  be  made  as 
rich  as  desired,  and  more  spices  may  be  added  if  liked.  If 
not  very  sweet  and  spicy,  they  should  be  put  up  in  sealed  jars. 
— [Mrs.  R.  M.  S.,  Wis. 

Sauerkraut 

Cabbage  in  the  form  of  kraut,  if  properly  made  and  cared 
for,  is  nutritious  and  makes  a  desirable  dish,  being  convenient 
and  very  little  trouble  to  prepare.  I  have  been  using  the  follow- 
ing recipe  for  years  and  have  never  lost  a  pound  or  had  any 
trouble  with  mouldy  cloths  on  top  of  kraut.  For  large  quanti- 
ties I  use  clean  oak  barrels,  for  a  few  gallons  I  prefer  stone' 
jars.  For  packing  in  barrels,  I  place  the  barrel  near  the  wall 
of  a  building  or  a  heavy  post,  make  a  follower  that  will  just  fit 
inside  of  the  barrel  and  press  down  by  means  of  a  lever,  one  end 
in  a  crack  of  the  building  or  under  a  block  nailed  to  a  post. 
Pack  in  solid,  but  do  not  pound  or  stamp,  as  this  breaks  and 
mashes  the  fiber  of  the  leaves  and  causes  them  to  become  dark. 
The  way  I  want  kraut  to  look  when  taken  from  the  barrel  is 
long,  stringy  and  of  a  snowy  whiteness,  and  to  have  a  sour,  not 
a  soured  taste  and  smell. 

Early  morning,  when  the  dew  is  on,  is  the  best  time  to 
gather  cabbage  for  kraut.  The  weather  should  be  warm  enough 
to  cause  fermentation  to  take  place  in  2  or  3  days  from  time  of 
packing.  After  fermentation  has  ceased,  keep  in  a  shady  cool 
place.  Remove  all  outside  leaves  and  the  heart  or  stalk  of  the 
cabbage.  Use  a  two  or  three-knife  kraut  cutter,  place  over  a 
tub,  and  shred  the  required  amount  to  fill  barrel  or  jars.  Use 
1  tablesp  salt  to  each  gal  of  kraut,  and  no  more,  for  if  more  salt 
is  used  fermentation  will  not  be  so  perfect — the  salt  will  pre- 
serve, instead  of  allowing  the  cabbage  to  ferment.  Sprinkle 
salt  over  the  cut  cabbage  and  thoroughly  mix  by  working  over 
with  the  hands  or  a  large  wooden  spoon  or  paddle.  Do  not  use 
any  metal  spoons  or  kettles,  Yfter  mixing,  press  in  the  barrels 
or  jars  very  solid.  If  in  barrels  replace  the  head  and  bore  m 
it  an  inch  auger  hole,  set  level,  and  pour  in  cold  water  until  it 
will  take  no  more.  Keep  the  head  of  barrel  covered  with  water 
by  adding  more  every  day,  or  as  needed.  After  fermentation 
has  ceased,  stop  up  tight  and  keep  head  of  barrel  covered  with 
water,  to  exclude  the  air.  If  put  up  in  jars,  keep  a  weight  on  to 
hold  kraut  under  brine,  and  keep  it  running  over  with  water, 
to  cause  all  skum  to  work  off. —  [J.  W.  G.,  Ky. 


Qatsups  and  Relishes 

AUCES  and  spiced  relishes,  in  one  shape 
or  another,  are  to  be  found  on  almost  every 
well  equipped  table,  and  while  a  too  liberal 
indulgence  in  them  is  properly  considered 
unwholesome,  yet  they  fill  a  gastronomical 
want  which  is  universal  and  therefore  not 
to  be  overlooked.  As  almost  all  the  ingredients  except 
some  of  the  spices  and  sugar  are  grown  on  the  average 
=home  farm,  catsups  and  sauces  can  be  prepared  at  com- 
paratively small  expense  by  country  housekeepers,  while 
town  and  city  dwellers  must  pay  high  prices  for  the  raw 
material  of  an  inferior  quality,  or  buy  the  ready-made 
bottled  relishes  of  whose  purity  they  cannot  be  assured.  In 
preparing  homemade  catsups  and  relishes  it  is  imperative 
that  the  following  rules  be  observed:  Have  the  bottles 
thoroughly  clean  and  drained  dry.  Be  sure  the  corks  are 
sound  and  clean,  and  allow  them  to  soak  a  little  while  in 
hot  water  before  using.  See  to  it  that  the  corks  are  large 
•enough,  and  press  them  into  the  bottles  as  far  as  they 
w^ill  go.  Then  trim  off  the  tops  evenly  with  a  sharp  knife, 
and  dip  the  top  of  each  bottle  to  the  depth  of  about  one  inch 
or  more  in  a  melted  sealing  mixture  made  of  beeswax  and 
rosin,  in  the  proportion  of  one  part  rosin  to  two  parts  bees- 
wax, or  dip  the  bottles  into  melted  sealing  wax  the  same 
as  that  used  for  sealing  letters.  Prepared  paraffine  or  seal- 
ing wax  cakes,  ready  for  melting,  can  be  bought  in  the 
stores. 

Ripe  Tomato  Catsup 

Wash  and  cut  out  the  stem  end  of  1  pk  good,  ripe  tomatoes. 
Cut  up  and  boil  until  very  soft,  then  rub  through  a  colander 
first,  and  a  fine  sieve  afterward.  This  will  remove  all  the 
peel  and  seeds.  Pour  the  strained  tomato  juice  in  an  agate 
or  porcelain  lined  kettle,  put  over  the  fire  and  add  the  follow- 
ing: 2  tablesp  salt,  1  tablesp  each  ground  black  pepper, 
ground   cloves  and   celery  seed,   1   teasp   cayenne  pepper  and 


22  6        THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK 


3  tablesp  ground  mustard.  Put  the  celery  seed  in  a  cheese- 
cloth bag,  and  let  the  catsup  boil  about  6  hours,  stirring 
occasionally  until  the  last  hour,  then  almost  constantly  to 
prevent  burning.  Pour  into  a  stone  jar,  and  let  stand  until 
perfectly  cold,  then  add  1  pt  good  vinegar  and  remove  the 
celery  seed  bag.  Bottle,  cork  and  seal.  Keep  in  a  cool,  dark 
and  dry  place. — [Mrs.  D.  W.  C,  British  Columbia. 


Green  Tomato  Catsup 

Chop  fine  y2  bu  green  tomatoes  and  2  large  heads  white 
cabbage,  2  doz  onions,  and  6  red  peppers.  To  this  add  2  good- 
sized  pieces  horseradish  root,  grated,  and  1  cup  salt.  Mix 
thoroughly,  put  in  a  cheesecloth  bag,  hang  up  and  let  drip 
all  night.  Next  morning  turn  the  drained  mixture  into  an 
agate  or  porcelain  lined  kettle,  add  enough  good  vinegar  to 
cover,  2  cups  sugar,  4  tablesp  whole  white  mustard  seed,  and 
1  tablesp  each  celery  seed,  ground  cloves,  cinnamon  and  all- 
spice. Put  the  spices  in  a  cheesecloth  bag  and  stir  it  through 
the  mixture  while  cooking.  Let  this  catsup  boil  about  15  min- 
utes, then  turn  it  into  stone  jars,  let  cool,  and  put  on  a 
weighted  cover,  so  that  the  juice  will  come  well  over  the 
solid  ingredients.  In  about  one  week  this  catsup  will  be 
ready  to  usee  Keep  in  a  cooL,  dark,  dry  place. —  [Mrs.  M.  M. 
B.,  Mo. 


Cold  Tomato  Catsup 

To  1  pk  ripe,  peeled  tomatoes,  chopped  fine  and  drained 
well,  add  1  pt  grated  horseradish,  6  large,  peeled  onions  and 
6  large  stalks  celery,  both  chopped  fine,  1  tablesp  each  celery 
seed  and  white  mustard  seed,  6  mango  peppers  and  2  hot 
peppers,  all  chopped  fine,  1  small  cup  salt,  2  cups  brown  sugar 
and  good  cider  vinegar  enough  to  cover.  A  little  cloves  and 
cinnamon  may  be  added  if  liked.  This  catsup  requires  no 
cooking  and  will  keep  fine  for  a  year,  if  set  away  in  a  cool 
place.  It  will  keep  for  a  longer  time  if  sealed  in  glass  jars 
and  kept  in  a  cool  place. — [Mrs.  J.  S.,  Neb. 

CoM  Cucumber  Catsup 

To  12  good-sized,  ripe  cucumbers,  peeled,  seeds  removed  and 
chopped  fine,  add  4  peeled  onions,  chopped  fine,  4  tablesp 
salt,  3  tablesp  black  pepper,  3  tablesp  grated  horseradish  and 
1  qt  best  cider  vinegar.  Bottle,  pour  1  teasp  olive  oil  in  top 
of  each  bottle,  cork  tightly,  seal,  and  keep  in  a  cool  place.— 
[Mrs.  W.  M.   G.,  Ct. 


THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK        227 


Quick  Catsup  from  Canned   Tomatoes 

Rub  2  qts  canned  tomatoes  through  a  sieve,  then  add  1 
teasp  each  salt,  cloves  and  allspice,  V2  teasp  each  red  pepper 
and  black  pepper,  1  tablesp  each  sugar  and  flour,  and  1  cup 
vinegar.  Boil  until  it  thickens.  Put  up  in  bottles  or  jars  and 
set  away  in  a  cool  place.  Sealing  will  hardly  be  necessary, 
as  the  quantity  given  is  so  small  that  the  catsup  will  very 
likely  be  consumed  before  it  would  have  a  chance  to  spoil. — ^ 
[A.  L  .D.,  Ida 

Farmer's  Catsup 

Chop  fine  1  pk  each  green  and  ripe  tomatoes,  1  large  onioHj 
and  4  heads  cabbage.  Sprinkle  with  1  cup  salt,  mix  thoroughly 
and  let  drain  over  night.  The  next  morning  add  1  gal  good 
cider  vinegar,  and  boil  for  2  hours;  then  add  1  doz  sweet 
peppers,  1  tablesp  each  celery  seed,  black  pepper,  ginger  and 
mustard,  and  1  teasp  each  cloves,  allspice  and  cinnamon,  ^ 
a  nutmeg  grated,  1  cup  grated  horseradish  and  2  lbs  brown 
sugar.  Boil  for  another  10  or  15  minutes,  and  then  can  or 
bottle  and  seal. — [Mrs.  J.  L.  R.,  O. 

Tomato  and  Peach  Catsup 

Chop  fine  ^  bu  ripe  tomatoes,  2  qts  peaches,  12  onions  and 
3  ripe,  red  peppers.  Boil  till  soft,  then  strain  and  boil  again 
until  thick  and  n'^  free  water  seems  to  be  left  in  the  mixture. 
After  that  add  1  qt  vinegar,  2  lbs  sugar,  ^%  cup  salt,  1  tablesp 
mixed  spices — cinnamon,  allspice,  cloves  and  mace.  Let  this 
boil  up  thoroughly  and  then  bottle,  cork  and  seal.  This  recipe 
is  well  worth  trying. —  [Mrs.  W.  D.  T.,  N.  H. 

Peach   Catsup 

When  you  are  preparing  peaches  for  canning  or  preservingp 
place  the  peelings  and  the  inferior  peaches  in  an  earthen  kettle, 
and  boil  in  a  very  little  water  and  a  little  salt.  Press  first 
through  a  colander  and  then  through  a  fine  wire  sieve,  and 
proceed  with  the  pulp  as  you  would  with  tomato  catsup.  This 
is  very  nice. — [E.  E.  W.,  Ore. 

Plum   Catsup 

To  4  qts  Damson  plums,  stewed  and  rubbed  through  a  sieve, 
add  2  lbs  brown  sugar,  1  cup  vinegar  and  1  teasp  ground  cloves 
and  cinnamon.  A  little  pepper,  allspice  and  salt  may  also  be 
added,  if  liked.  Cook  slowly  until  thick,  stirring  ofteuo 
Prunes  may  be  substituted  for  the  fresh  plums  and  will  make 
a  very  acceptable  catsup. —  [Mrs.  W.  C.  T.,  N.  Y. 


228  THE   ORANGE  JUDD   COOK  BOOK 


Apple   Catsup 

Pare,  core  and  quarter  apples  and  stew  in  a  very  little  water 
until  tender.  Rub  through,  a  sieve  and  to  each  qt  pulp 
add  1  cup  sugar,  1  teasp  each  salt,  pepper,  cloves,  ground 
mustard,  2  teasp  cinnamon,  2  onions,  chopped  fine,  and  1  pt 
vinegar.  Boil  one  hour,  bottle,  cork  and  seal  while  hot. — 
[Mrs.  H.  A.  B.,  Mont. 

Crabapple  Catsup 

Stem  and  wash  crabapples,  stew  until  tender,  using  no 
more  water  than  necessary,  then  rub  through  a  sieve  and  to 
each  gal  pulp  add  1  qt  vinegar,  1  tablesp  each  salt  and  black 
pepper,  2  teasp  mustard,  1  teasp  each  allspice  and  cloves  and 
pinch  red  pepper.  Boil  gently  1  hour,  bottle,  cork  and 
seal  while  hot. —  [Mrs.   C.   C.  W.,  Mich. 

Cherry  Catsup 

To  2  qts  chopped,  stoned  cherries,  add  2  cups  each  sugar 
and  vinegar,  i/^  teasp  ground  cloves  and  1  tablesp  ground 
cinnamon.  Boil  15  minutes,  set  the  kettle  away  until  the 
next  day,  then  boil  15  minutes  longer  and  can  while  hot,  or 
bottle,  cork  and  seal. — [C.  T.  D.,  Mo. 

Currant   Catsup 

Stem  2  qts  ripe,  red  currants,  and  boil  about  10  minutes  with 
%  pt  water.  Strain  through  colander  and  add  V2  pt  best 
vinegar,  1  lb  brown  sugar,  and  1  tablesp  each  mace,  ground 
cloves  and  cinnamon.  Bottle,  cork  and  seal  while  hot. — 
[Mrs.  J.  A.  W..  Mo. 

Green  Grape   Catsup 

Stem  green  grapes,  wash  and  cook  until  soft,  with  just 
enough  water  to  keep  from  burning,  then  strain  out  the 
skins  and  seeds  through  a  colander.  Weigh  the  strained 
pulp  and  allow  2  cups  brown  sugar  to  2^/^  lbs  pulp,  1  cup 
vinegar  and  2  level  teasp  each  salt,  pepper,  cloves,  cinnamon 
and  allspice.  Cook  slowly  until  it  begins  to  thicken,  then 
bottle  and  seal.  The  spices  can  be  put  in  a  cheesecloth  bag, 
if  one  is  particular  about  the  color  of  the  catsup. —  [Mrs. 
E.  R.  R.,  Me. 

Ripe  Grape  Catsup 

Stew  5  lbs  grapes,  stemmed  and  washed,  until  they  are  soft 
enough  to  rub  through  a  colander,  leaving  out  skins  and  seeds. 
To  the  strained  pulp  add  1  pt  vinegar,  2  lbs  sugar,  1  tablesp 
each  pepper,  allspice,  cloves  and  cinnamon,  and  i/^  teasp  salt. 
Boil  until  thick,  then  bottle  and  seal. —  [E.  T.,  N.  Y. 


THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK        229 

Gooseberry  Catsup 

To  12  lbs  gooseberries  add  6  lbs  sugar,  1  qt  vinegar,  2  tablesp 
each  cloves,  cinnamon  and  allspice,  1  tablesp  black  pepper,  and 

1/^  teasp  salt.  Boll  about  one  hour,  or  until  thick.  Bottle, 
cork  and  seal  while  hot.     This  makes  about  1  gal  catsup. — < 

[Mrs.  H.  J.   H.,   Col. 

Walnut  Catsup 

The  walnuts  should  be  gathered  while  tender,  when  they 
can  be  easily  pierced  with  a  darning  needle.  White  walnuts 
or  butternuts  are  the  best.  Wash  and  wipe  dry  100  tender 
green  walnuts,  pierce  them  all  over  with  a  fork,  place  them 
in  a  large  jar  with  2  qts  vinegar  and  1  cup  salt,  and  let 
them  stand  5  days,  mashing  and  stirring  them  well  every 
other  day;  then  drain,  squeeze  out  the  juice  and  put  the 
nuts  in  a  porcelain  kettle  with  %  pt  fresh  vinegar,  i/^  doz 
whole  pepper  corn,  1  tablesp  cloves,  1  blade  mace,  1  grated 
nutmeg,  1  little  head  garlic,  1  horseradish  root,  sliced,  and 
I  pod  red  pepper.  Let  come  slowly  to  a  boil,  and  boil  for 
20  minutes.     Strain,  cool,  bottle  and  seal. —  [E.  E.  W.,  Ore. 

Cooked  Chili  Sauce 

Peel  and  cut  1  pk  sound,  ripe  tomatoes  and  cook  1  hour, 
then  add  1  qt  onions,  3  green  peppers  and  3  bunches  celery, 
all  chopped  fine,  %  cup  salt,  1  teasp  each  mustard,  black 
pepper  and  cloves,  1  tablesp  cinnamon,  1  lb  brown  sugar 
and  1  qt  vinegar.  Boil  1  hour,  bottle  while  hot  and  cork 
and  seal.  Chopped  apples  and  grated  horseradish  can  be 
added  to  the  above  recipe,  and  also  a  little  nutmeg,  ginger, 
mace  or  cassia,  if  liked.  Do  not  strain  this  sauce. —  [G.  L. 
N.,  N.  Y. 

Uncooked  Cliili  Sauce 

Peel  and  chop  fine  l^  pk  good,  ripe,  solid  tomatoes,  2 
cups  celery,  2  cups  onions  and  2  small  red  peppers.  Mix  well 
and  add  y2  cup  each  salt,  sugar  and  white  mustard  seed,  1 
tablesp  each  black  pepper  and  ground  cinnamon,  and  1  qt 
good  cider  vinegar.  This  need  not  be  cooked.  Mix  all  ingre- 
dients well  together,  put  in  a  stone  crock,  weight  down  with 
a  small  saucer,  cover  well  with  a  cloth  and  paper  and  keep 
in  a  cool,  dry,  dark  place. —  [Mrs.  M.  J.  L.,  Mich. 

Red  Chili  Sauce 

Boil  1  doz  ripe  chili  peppers  in  water  enough  to  cover. 
When  thoroughly  soft,  press  through  a  fine  sieve,  thus  remov- 
ing seeds  and  skins,  and  bottle  the  pulp.  This  may  be 
used  as  a  sauce  or  as  a  seasoning  in  cooking  rice,  beans,  or 
meat.— [Mrs.  L.  J.,  Cal. 


230        THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK 


New  England  Chili  Sauce 

Chop  fine  1  pk  green  tomatoes,  1  small  head  cabbage,  12 
large,  tart  apples,  6  medium-sized  onions  and  4  large,  green 
peppers.  Mix  thoroughly  and  add  1  tablesp  each  ground 
mustard,  cinnamon,  cloves  and  allspice,  2  lbs  brown  sugar,  2 
qts  vinegar  and  V2  cup  salt.  Boil  2  hours  and  put  away  in 
crocks,  well  covered.  Keep  in  a  dark,  cool  and  dry  place. — 
[Mrs.  M.  J.  L.,  Mich. 


Bordeaux  Sauce 

To  2  qts  chopped  green  tomatoes  add  1  qt  chopped  cabbage, 
8  small  onions,  peeled  and  chopped  fine,  1  ^/^  teasp  each  turmerio 
and  white  mustard  seed,  1  tablesp  cold  allspice,  2  tablesp  celery 
seed,  2  cups  sugar,  4  tablesp  salt,  and  1  qt  good  cider  vinegar. 
Boil  V2  hour  and  seal  while  hot  in  glass  jars  or  bottles. — • 
[Mrs.  W.  W.  B.,  N.  Y. 

Celery  Sauce 

Chop  fine  2  qts  cabbage,  2  qts  celery  and  4  qts  green  toma- 
toes; drain  off  all  the  water  and  juice,  and  add  to  the  chopped 
mixture  V2  lb  ground  yellow  mustard,  %  |,i)  sugar,  1  oz 
turmeric,  %  cup  salt,  1  teasp  each  black  pepper,  ground  cloves, 
cinnamon  and  celery  seed  and  enough  good  vinegar  to  cover. 
Boil  %  hour  and  put  up  in  air-tight  jars. —  [S.  F.  R.,  N.  J. 

Chutney  Sauce 

Chop  fine  12  sour  apples,  peeled  and  cored,  2  peppers,  6 
tomatoes,  4  onions  and  1  cup  seeded  raisins,  then  add  1  qt 
good  cider  vinegar,  2  tablesp  each  salt  and  white  mustard,  2 
cups  brov/n  sugar,  and  a  little  cayenne  pepper.  Cook  until 
soft.     Bottle,  cork  and  seal. —  [Mrs.  D.  M.  W.,  Mass. 

Horseradish  Sauce 

To  1  qt  grated  horseradish  add  1  qt  cold  v^'negar,  2  teasp 
each  salt  and  sugar,  and  1  teasp  white,  ground  pepper.  Seal 
in  wide-mouthed  bottles  or  small  glass  jars. —  [Miss  I.  J.  K., 
Minn. 

Pickled  Com  Sauce 

Chop  fine  1  large  cabbage  and  6  large  peppers,  sprinkle  with 
salt  and  let  stand  a  while  to  draw  off  the  juices.  Then  drain 
thoroughly,  and  add  3  pts  boiled  corn,  cut  from  the  cobs,  and 
3  tablesp  each  celery  seed  and  white  mustard  seed.     In  another 


THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK        231 


vessel  bring  to  a  boil  3  pts  vinegar  and  1  cup  sugar,  and  add 
to  this  syrup  a  smooth  paste  made  with  a  Little  vinegar  and 
2  tablesp  each  cornstarch  and  ground  mustard  and  1  tablesp 
turmeric.  Boil  until  the  cornstarch  is  done,  add  the  chopped 
cabbage,  peppers,  corn  and  spice  mixture,  and  can  while  hots. 
It  should  be  put  up  in  air-tight  cans. —  [Mrs.  I.  C,  N.  J. 


Pickled  Pumpkin  Sauce 

Peel  a  firm,  yellow  pumpkin,  remove  the  seeds,  and  cut 
in  small  dice-shaped  pieces.  Steam  until  quite  tender,  but 
not  soft  or  mushy.  Place  in  an  agate  vessel  or  earthen  crock 
and  cover  with  vinegar,  then  turn  off  the  vinegar  and  sweeten 
it  with  1  lb  sugar.  Add  2  ozs  whole  cloves,  2  ozs  stick  cin- 
namon and  boil  the  vinegar,  sugar  and  spices  together. 
Turn  this  syrup  while  boiling  hot  over  the  steamed  pumpkin, 
and  let  stand  a  week.  Then  drain  off  the  juice,  boil  it  again, 
pour  over  the  pumpkin  again,  and  let  stand  another  week. 
Repeat  this  process  a  third  time,  after  which  the  juice  should 
be  rich  and  delicious,  but  if  it  does  not  seem  to  be  quite 
sweet  enough  add  more  sugar  and  boil  down  quite  thick. 
Put  away  in  a  stone  crock  and  weight  down  with  a  small 
saucer  or  plate  that  will  fit  inside  the  crock,  so  as  to  keep 
the  pumpkin  under  the  juice.  Then  cover  the  crock  with  a 
piece  of  thick  paper.  Can  also  be  bottled  and  sealed  like 
sauce,  but  I  never  lost  any  of  mine  when  put  away  in  stone 
crocks,  as  described.  Keep  in  a  dark,  cool,  dry  place. — 
[J.  U.,  Mich. 


Worcestershire  Sauce 

Slice  without  peeling  %  bu  ripe  tomatoes  and  10  lemons 
(remove  stem  ends  from  the  tomatoes  and  seeds  from  the 
lemons),  cover  with  1  qt  good  cider  vinegar,  add  %  lb  salt, 
1  lb  brown  sugar,  14  lb  ground  allspice,  1  oz  ground  cloves,  and 
boil  gently  2  hours,  after  which  strain  through  a  fine  sieve  and 
add  the  juice  of  1  lemon.  Bottle,  cork  and  seal  while  hot. — 
[Mrs.  J.  P.  D..  Neb. 


Green  Tomato  Soy 

Slice  2  gals  green  tomatoes  without  peeling,  and  12  large, 
peeled  onions,  add  1  qt  sugar,  2  tablesp  each  dry  mustard,  salt 
and  black  pepper,  1  tablesp  each  allspice  and  cloves  and  2  qts 
good  cider  vmegar.  Cook  slowly  8  hours  and  put  up  in  cans  or 
bottles  and  seal. —  [Miss  L.  M.  R.,  Mich. 


232  THE   ORANGE  JUDD   COOK  BOOK 


Ripe  Tomato  Soy  I 

Peel  and  slice  1  pk  good,  ripe  tomatoes  and  add  1  qt  good 
vinegar,  ZVz  lbs  brown  sugar  and  1  oz  whole  cloves.  Boil 
slowly  until  it  is  rich  and  thick  and  reduced  fully  two-thirds. 
Bottle  and  seal.  This  will  keep  for  years,  and  seems  to  get 
better  with  age.  It  is  nice  to  serve  with  poultry,  game  or  any 
meat. — [E.  P.  L.  W.,  N.  Y. 

Ripe  Tomato  Soy  II 

Chop  fine  12  ripe  tomatoes,  10  onions,  10  large  bell  peppers, 
and  add  1  qt  good  cider  vinegar,  1  tablesp  each  salt  and  sugar, 
1  teasp  each  ground  cinnamon,  cloves  and  allspice,  and  a 
dash  red  pepper.  Boil  slowly  until  the  consistency  of  apple 
butter,  stirring  occasionally  to  prevent  burning.  This  amount 
will  fill  2  qt  glass  jars. —  [Mrs.  M.  V.  H.,  Tenn. 

Wild  Grape  Relish 

Wash  the  grapes  and  cook  them  with  only  just  enough 
water  to  prevent  scorching.  When  soft,  press  through  a  sieve, 
and  to  each  10  lbs  pulp  add  5  lbs  sugar,  1  tablesp  ground  cin- 
namon, 2  teasp  ground  cloves,  1  teasp  allspice,  1  grated  nut- 
meg, and  2  qts  good  vinegar.  Boil  slowly  until  as  thick  as 
catsup,  and  then  bottle,  cork  and  seal  while  hot. — [Mrs.  J. 
L.  R.,  O. 

Red  Cabbage  Relish 

To  1  qt  raw,  red  cabbage,  chopped  fine,  add  1  qt  boiled,  red 
beats,  chopped  fine,  2  cups  sugar,  1  tablesp  salt,  1  teasp 
black  pepper,  V4,  teasp  red  pepper,  1  cup  grated  horseradish, 
and  enough  cold  vinegar  to  cover.  This  requires  no  boiling, 
and  when  put  up  in  air-tight  jars  will  keep  indefinitely. — . 
[Mrs.  S.  E.  F.,  Cal. 

Indian  Chutney 

To  2  qts  each  chopped  tart  apples  and  green  tomatoes,  add 
1  lb  seeded  raisins,  chopped,  2  cups  brown  sugar,  2  scant  cups 
each  lemon  juice  and  vinegar,  small  Vz  cup  salt,  1  chopped 
onion,  1  teasp  cayenne  pepper  and  1  oz  ginger.  Mix  together 
well  and  let  stand  in  an  earthen  jar  over  night.  Next  morn- 
ing set  the  jar  in  a  kettle  of  cold  water,  let  it  heat  slowly,  and 
then  boil  6  hours.     Put  up  in  cans  and  seal. — [Mrs.  J.  S.,  Ot 


When  making  cold  tomato  catsup  from  ripe  tomatoes,  tt»at 
requires  no  boiling,  ripe  nasturtium  seeds  are  a  nice  addi- 
tion.—[A.  G.,  Mass. 


Butchering  Time  Recipes 

ERHAPS  there  is  no  work  which  falls  to 
the  lot  of  housekeepers  on  our  farms  that 
is  more  dreaded  or  disliked  by  them  than 
the  yearly  or  semi-yearly  jobs  connected 
with  butchering  time,  which  the  women 
must  perform — the  trimming,  salting,  cur- 
ing, pickling  and  smoking,  and  the  rendering  of  fat. 
,Though  fresh  meat  is  rare  in  many  farm  homes  most  of 
the  year,„  when  butchering  time  comes,  there  is  such  a 
plethora  of  it  that  the  appetite  and  appreciation  for  it 
decrease  at  a  rapid  rate.  This  is  only  natural,  and  it  is 
therefore  well  to  know  how  to  preserve  as  much  of  it  as 
possible,  for  use  during  those  seasons  when  fresh  meat,  or 
meat  of  any  kind  'besides  poultry,  is  not  so  plentiful.  A 
careful  study  of  the  following  recipes  will  convince  the 
economical  and  ambitious  housewives  that  there  need  be 
very  little,  if  any,  waste  at  butchering  time,  and  that  there 
need  be  no  monotony  or  lack  of  good  meat  "timber"  in 
farm  homes,  where  the  farmers  do  their  own  butchering. 

How  to  Cut  Up  a  Beef 

When  killing  a  beef  it  is  very  essential  to  properly  quarter 
and  cut  the  carcass,  in  order  that  the  good  cuts  may  be  sepa- 
rated from  the  poor.  Figure  I  illustrates  the  ordinary  method 
of  cutting  up  a  beef,  now  used  by  butchers.  The  following 
explanation  of  the  various  parts  gives  the  names  of  these  cuts 
and  the  common  uses  to  which  they  are  put: 

The  hind  quarter  is  divided  into  nine  cuts  as  follows:  No  1, 
choice  roasts,  the  porter  and  sirloin  steaks;  2,  rump,  used  for 
steaks,  stews  and  corned  beef;  3,  aitch-bone,  used  for  boiling 
pieces,  stews  and  pot  roasts;  4,  bullock  or  round  steak,  for 
roasts  or  boiling  pieces;  5,  bottom  round,  for  boiling  and  stew- 
ing; 6,  shin  or  leg,  for  soups  and  hashes;  7,  thick  flank,  for 
stews,  corned  beef  and  boiling  pieces;  8,  veiny  piece,  for 
corned  or  dried  beef;  9,  thin  flank,  for  corned  beef  and  boiling. 

The  fore  quarter  is  divided  into  nine  parts  as  follows:  No  10, 
forerib,  prime  roasts  and  fine  steaks;   11,  middle  ribs,  prime 

233 


234  THE   ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK 

roasts;  12,  chuck  ribs,  the  second  quality  of  roasts  and  steaks; 
13,  brisket,  for  corned  beef,  soups,  etc;  14,  shoulder  piece,  for 
soups,  mince  meat,  and  hashes;  15-16,  neck,  for  soup,  mince 
meat,  hash  and  bologna  sausage;  17,  shin  or  shank,  for  soups 
and  stews;  18,  cheek,  for  mince  meat  and  sausage. 

The  Chicago  retail  meat  dealers  have  a  somewhat  different 
method  of  cutting  up  the  animal,  as  shown  in  Fig  II.     The 


FIG  I — COMMON  CUTTING  METHOD 


FIG  II — CHICAGO  RETAIL,  METHOD 


THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK        235 


parts  as  numbered  on  the  sketch  are:  1,  neck;  2,  chuck;  3, 
prime  rib;  4,  porterhouse;  5,  sirloin;  6,  rump;  7,  round;  8 
plate;  9,  flank;  10,  shin;  11,  shank.  They  cut  a  larger  part 
of  the  animal  in  the  portions  3,  4,  and  5,  which  represent  the 
higher  priced  cuts. — [F  &  H. 

About  Pork  Making 

Hog  killing  and  pork  making  on  the  farm  have  become 
almost  lost  arts  in  these  days  of  mammoth  packing  establish- 
ments which  handle  such  enormous  numbers  of  swine  at  all 
seasons  of  the  year,  says  the  editor  of  "Home  Pork  Making," 
published  by  the  Orange  Judd  Company,  New  York  and  Chi- 
cago. Yet  the  progressive  farmer  of  today  should  not  only  pro- 
vide his  own  fresh  and  cured  pork  for  family  use,  but  also 
should  be  able  to  supply  at  remunerative  prices  such  persons 
in  his  neighborhood  as  appreciate  the  excellence  and  general 
merit  or  economy  of  homemade  pork  product.  "Home  Pork 
Making"  is  a  complete  guide  for  the  farmer  in  all  that  pertains 
to  hog  slaughtering,  curing,  preserving  and  storing  pork  prod- 
uct, from  scalding  vat  to  kitchen  table  and  dining  room, 
including  numerous  prize  recipes. 

The  general  appearance  of  the  most  choice  pork  is  from  an 
animal,  the  carcass  of  which  will  not  weigh  less  than  50  lbs, 
and  not  more  than  120  lbs,  according  to  Voe,  author  of  the 
"Market  Assistant"  published  by  Orange  Judd  Company,  New 
York  and  Chicago.  The  skin  should  present  a  semi-transparent 
appearance,  approaching  white  in  color;  the  fat  on  the  back 
should  not  be  less  than  half  inch  thick,  white  and  firm,  and 
the  lean  should  be  of  a  pale  reddish  color,  and  juicy.  The 
skin  of  the  older  animals  is  thicker  and  coarser,  while  the  lean 
is  of  a  darker  color,  but  equally  sweet,  juicy  and  tender.  By 
many,  fresh  pork  is  considered  to  be  exceedingly  unwholesome 
during  the  months  of  the  year  of  high  temperature.  This,  no 
doubt,  to  a  great  extent  is  true,  the  fatty,  gross  character  of  the 
flesh  not  being  easily  assimilated,  when  the  animal  economy  of 
the  human  system  requires  less  heating  nourishment  to  the 
blood,  and  therefore  requires  less  irritating  food  to  the  diges- 
tive organs. 

The  carcass. of  pork  being  intended  for  immediate  use  while 
in  its  first  state,  is  hung  by  the  foot  of  its  right  hind  leg,  then 
cut  down  through  the  skin  of  the  center  of  the  back  from  the 
tail  to  the  neck,  followed  with  the  splitting  down  of  the  back 
bone  through  the  line  of  the  incision,  dividing  it  into  halves  or 
Bides.  These  are  again  divided,  after  taking  off  the  head,  into 
quarters.  The  hind  quarter  is  first  divided  by  taking  off  the 
leg  of  pork  and  when  intended  for  corning,  should  be  kept  in 
pickle  10  or  12  days  before  use.  The  loin  of  pork,  if  not  too 
fat,  is  good  for  roasting  and  also  furnishes  fine  pork  chops  and 


236  THE   ORANGE  JUDD   COOK  BOOK 


delicate  pieces  for  corning.  The  fore  quarter  of  pork  if  smail^ 
is  often  roasted  wliole,  after  having  the  blade  hone  removed; 
If  large,  it  is  divided  across  the  ribs,  using  the  thin  part  or 
brisket  of  pork  for  corning,  after  taking  off  the  hocks  and  feet. 
Figure  I,  which  shows  the  pork  carcass  lying  on  a  block  or 
table,  furnishes  a  good  diagram  for  cutting.  First  separate  the 
head  from  the  carcass,  then  split  the  carcass  through  the  back 
bone  with  a  chopper,  then  with  a  sharp  knife  loosen  the  leaf 
and  kidney  fat  and  tear  it  away  toward  the  leg,  the  kidney,  of 
course,  being  brought  away  with  it.  Each  side  is  then  divided 
into  its  fore  and  hind  quarters  by  leaving  two  ribs  on  each  of 
the  latter.  The  next  cut  loosens  the  tenderloin  from  where  it 
is  connected  with  the  ham,  when  it  is  torn  out  upwards  towarcj 


PIG  I— PORK  CARCASS  ON  A  BLOCK 

the  ribs  or  head.  The  hams  are  then  removed,  beginning  at  the 
tail  side  and  cutting  circularly  to  the  flank,  after  sawing  the 
small  bone  about  half  way  and  chopping  or  sawing  off  the  feet. 
Next  cut  off  the  brisket  of  pork,  which  is  usually  corned.  The 
chine  of  pork,  without  the  back  fat,  is  much  used  for  chops, 
steaks  or  roasting,  while  some  prefer  this  part  for  sausage 
meat.  The  back  fat,  on  the  loin,  is  also  taken  off  in  the  same 
manner,  when,  the  loin  is  prepared  for  either  chops  or  roast- 
ing. 

Figure  II  represents  the  mode  of  cutting  pork  carcass  for 
barreling.  The  same  mode  of  cutting  is  here  adapted,  by  sep- 
arting  the  head  from  the  carcass,  then  splitting  the  carcass, 
cutting  off  the  fresh  hams  and  feet,  tearing  out  the  leaf  and 
kidney  fat,  taking  out  the  tenderloin — as  previously  shown. 
Then  the  head  (10  and  3)  is  divided  by  cutting  off  the  cheeks, 
beginning  from  the  corner  of  the  mouth,  following  the  line 
towards  9  (see  also  Fig  I,  A  B),  and  saw  off  the  jawbone, 
which  separates  the  cheeks  from  the  plate ;  then  crack  the  bone 
of  the  under  jaw  between  the  front  teeth  and  the  cheeks,  held 
together  to  hang  up  by.  Next  take  off  the  shoulder  by  cutting 
straight  across  the  side,  as  shown  Fig  I  (D);  then  trim  off  the 


THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK 


237 


spare  ribs,  by  cutting  under  the  breast-bone,  and  so  follow  the 
ribs  as  far  as  the  chine-bone,  when  the  knife  is  continued  on 
directly  to  the  end  of  the  long  bones  in  the  back,  which  leaves 
the  shoulder  about  one  thickness,  and  the  spare-ribs  (not  too 
spare),  with  meat  enough  left  on  them  to  make  a  roast.  Then 
trim  the  shoulder  round  (see  2),  and  saw  off  the  feet,  which 
forms  the  shoulder  similar  to  a  ham.  The  brisket  and  flanks 
are  next  cut  off,  then  the  ribs  (5)  and  loin  pieces  (4)  are  cut 
In  suitable  sizes,  when  all  are  ready  to  salt,  except  that  the 
trimmings  and  some  other  pieces  can  be  used  for  sausages. 
The  leaf  fat  and  pieces  of  fat  are  rendered  into  lard,  and  the 
pate,  etc,  is  used  for  head  cheese. 


FIG  II— HOW  TO  CUT  PORK  FOR  BARRELING 


1. 

Leg,  or  fresh  ham. 

7. 

Flank. 

2. 

Shoulder  (after  being  trimmed). 

8. 

Tail-piece. 

3. 

Chops  or  cheeks. 

9. 

Neck-piece. 

4. 

Loin-pieces. 

10. 

Pate  or  skull. 

5. 

Rib,  or  chine-pieces. 

11. 

Feet. 

6. 

Brisket. 

The  flesh  of  the  hog,  diseased  when  slaughtered,  is  exceed- 
ingly unwholesome,  and  is  not  fit  to  be  used  for  any  purpose. 
Certain  diseases  may  be  known  by  yellowish  lumps  or  kernels 
distributed  through  the  fat  and  lean,  and  the  flesh  having  a 
heavy,  dull  appearance. 

By  Way  o^f  Preparation 

The  day  before  you  butcher,  sharpen  the  knives,  prepare 
the  table,  and  set  down  the  dipping  barrel  half  of  its  depth 
into  the  ground,  tilting  it  toward  the  table.     Now  fix  a  pulley 


238  THE  ORANGE  JUDD   COOK  BOOK 

directly  above,  which  should  be  used  when  dipping,  and  also 
when  hanging  the  pork  to  cool.  If  the  weather  is  not  very 
cold,  butcher  in  the  evening,  so  as  to  allow  the  pork  to  cool 
quickly,  but  in  cold  weather  begin  early  in  the  morning  and 
have  plenty  of  boiling  water  and  everything  else  in  readiness* 
£F  &  H. 

Cleaning  and  Separating  the  Entrails 

As  soon  as  the  entrails  are  removed  from  the  carcass,  carry 
them  into  the  house,  lay  out  on  a  table,  and  go  to  work 
swiftly,  before  they  have  a  chance  to  get  cold.  Have  ready 
several  sharp  little  knives,  plenty  of  clean  cloths,  and  some 
twine.  The  table  should  be  long  and  narrow,  and  tipped  up 
slightly  at  one  end,  and  the  feet  at  the  other  end  placed  in 
a  large  tub,  to  catch  the  drip.  Better  still  is  a  flat  wooden 
flue,  of  the  correct  width  and  length,  with  a  6-inch  strip  nailed 
along  each  side. 

Carefully  cut  away  all  fat  and  throw  into  cold  salt  water, 
the  leaf  lard  being  put  in  a  separate  vessel.  Put  the  heart, 
kidneys  and  liver  in  a  separate  vessel  of  salt  water,  being 
careful  not  to  break  the  gall  bag.  If  an  ox,  save  the  latter, 
as  ox  gall  is  good  for  many  things.  Clean  the  stomach  and 
also  put  in  salt  water,  and  treat  the  casings  the  same.  Waste 
can  be  fed  to  the  chickens.  If  you  should  happen  to  cut  into 
the  intestines,  quickly  tie  up  with  twine  and  clean  away  excre- 
ment. It  is  better  for  two  people  to  go  at  this  work,  to  finish 
before  it  gets  cold. —  [A.  G.,  Mass. 

When  Beef  Is  KiUed 

When  the  weather  gets  cold,  and  after  the  beef  is  butchered, 
we  let  it  hang  for  2  or  3  days  in  a  cool  place,  and  then  cut  it 
up.  We  cut  quite  a  number  of  nice  lean  pieces  without  any 
bone  in  them,  and  put  them  in  brine  for  2  or  3  weeks,  then 
take  them  out  and  wipe  dry,  and  put  each  one  into  a  little 
cheesecloth  sack,  and  hang  over  the  cook  stove  to  dry.  This 
makes  our  dried  beef.  This  is  the  way  we  hang  them  up: 
We  take  two  pieces  of  rope  about  2  feet  long,  and  double 
them  and  fasten  the  ends  to  the  ceiling  about  5  feet  apart, 
letting  the  loops  hang  down.  Then  we  take  a  long  smooth 
stick,  and  fasten  all  the  little  cheesecloth  sacks  of  beef  on  the 
stick,  and  put  each  end  of  the  stick  in  the  loops  of  rope. 

We  use  some  of  the  beef  to  make  several  large  crocks  of 
mincemeat,  as  it  will  keep  all  winter  in  a  cold  place.  The  rest 
of  the  beef  we  corn.  Be  most  particular  about  the  barrel 
— never  use  a  barrel  that  has  been  used  for  other  purposes, 
or  if  beef  has  ever  soured  in  it.  Get  a  new  barrel,  (a  good 
molasses  barrel  is  best),  and  clean  it  well. 


THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK        239 


Cut  all  the  large  bone  out  of  the  meat  and  then  pack  the 
beef  in  the  barrel  tightly.  Cover  with  a  hardwood  board  that 
will  lat  down  in  the  barrel,  put  a  clean,  heavy  stone  on  it,  and 
it  is  ready  for  the  pickling  brine,  which  we  make  as  follows: 
To  2  gals  water  add  3  lbs  salt,  1  lb  sugar,  1  oz  saltpeter,  and 
2  tablesp  baking  soda.  Make  as  many  gallons  as  you  need, 
adding  the  same  ingredients  to  every  2  gals  water.  Put  in 
a  boiler,  boil,  skim  well,  and  pour  boiling  hot  over  the  beef. 
Be  sure  the  brine  covers  the  beef  well — yes,  more  than  covers 
it — as  it  will  soak  in  the  beef  some.  If  you  should  ever  need 
to  add  more  brine,  do  not  put  it  on  hot — that  is  only  done 
the  first  time. —  [Farmer's  Wife,  Colo. 


To  Pack  Pork  in  Salt 

The  pork  should  hang  in  a  cool  place  over  night.  Be  sure 
that  all  the  animal  heat  is  out  of  it.  Cut  the  sides  into  strips 
crosswise.  Cover  the  bottom  of  a  perfectly  clean  barrel  with 
clean,  coarse  salt,  and  then  pack  in  the  strips  of  pork  closely, 
edgewise,  with  the  rind  next  to  the  barrel.  Then  fill  the  crev- 
ices in  between  with  salt,  and  cover  the  top  of  the  layer  with 
salt,  and  proceed  in  this  way  until  the  pork  is  all  in,  or  the 
barrel  is  filled.  Make  a  strong  brine  of  salt  and  cold  water, 
using  so  much  salt  that  the  water  will  not  dissolve  any  more — ■ 
it  should  be  strong  enough  to  float  an  egg.  Boil  and  skim  this 
brine,  and  then  pour  it  into  the  barrel  over  the  pork,  while 
boiling  hot.  Cover  the  pork  with  a  round,  hard  piece  of 
board,  a  little  smaller  than  the  barrel  head,  put  a  clean  stone 
on  it,  heavy  enough  to  keep  it  down  under  the  brine,  then 
cover  the  barrel  and  set  away  in  a  cool,  dry  place.  If  at  any 
time  the  brine  should  froth  or  look  red,  it  should  be  turned 
out,  scalded  and  skimmed,  and  then  poured  over  the  meat 
again  scalding  hot.  Never  put  cold  brine  on  old  pork.  We 
have  pickled  our  pork  in  this  way  for  many  years,  and  have 
never  lost  any.  When  wanted  for  use  freshen  the  pork  by 
letting  it  stand  in  warm  water  on  the  back  of  the  stove  about 
half  hour. —  [Mrs.  E.  E.  J.,  Cal. 


To  Pack  Frozen  Meat  in  Hay-Box 

Take  a  large,  strong,  tight,  wooden  dry  goods  box,  line 
inside  with  several  thicknesses  of  paper,  pasting  it  in  closely 
and  overlapping  the  seams  generously,  then  put  a  thick  layer 
of  hay  or  sawdust  in  the  bottom  of  the  box,  and  cover  with 
paper.  Freeze  hams,  spare  ribs,  shoulders,  or  any  pieces  of 
fresh  pork,  beef,  or  poultry  that  you  wish  to  keep  fresh  for 
future  use,  and  be  sure  that  the  freezing  is  most  thorough. 


240  THE  ORANGE  JUDD   COOK  BOOK 

SO  that  each  piece  is  frozen  all  the  way  through.  Wrap  each 
piece  separately  in  several  layers  of  clean,  light  brown  paper, 
then  pack  a  layer  of  these  pieces  in  a  box  prepared  as  above, 
fill  all  the  crevices  between  the  pieces  with  fine  hay,  packing 
it  in  solidly,  cover  the  layer  of  meat  pieces  with  about  5  or  6 
inches  of  hay,  then  pack  in  more  meat  as  directed  above,  and 
so  on  until  all  the  frozen  meat  is  stored,  or  the  box  is  full, 
being  careful  to  have  plenty  of  hay  all  around  the  sides,  and 
on  the  top.  Next  put  on  a  tight  cover  of  wood,  also  lined 
with  paper  inside,  and  throw  some  thick  covering  over  the 
box,  such  as  an  old  comforter,  blanket,  fur  robe,  or  a  piece 
of  heavy  carpet.  The  box,  of  course,  should  stand  in  a  cold 
and  dry  place.  Frozen  meat  packed  in  this  way  will  remain 
frozen  and  sweet  for  months,  and  will  even  withstand  quite  a 
long  thaw. — [Mrs.  I.  R.  N.,  Me. 

Canning  Meat,  Poultry  and  Sansages 

Cut  the  meat  or  poultry  in  pieces  of  convenient  size,  trim 
carefully,  and  be  sure  they  are  sweet  and  clean.  Boil  until 
tender  in  enough  water  to  cover,  seasoning  to  taste,  the  same 
as  for  immediate  use,  and  when  all  the  meat  is  well  done 
and  tender,  press  a  little  at  a  time  in  hot  glass  fruit  jars, 
then  pour  in  a  little  of  the  hot  gravy  (which  should  first  have 
been  boiled  down  until  it  is  almost  ready  to  jelly  when  cold), 
until  the  gravy  fills  up  all  the  vacant  places  around  the  meat, 
but  not  enough  to  cause  the  meat  to  float.  Then  press  in 
another  layer  of  meat  and  more  gravy,  and  proceed  in  this 
way  until  the  jar  is  filled  up  to  within  one  inch  of  the  top. 
Be  very  sure  that  there  are  no  air  spaces  left  in  the  cans.  Then 
fill  each  can  overflowing  full  with  melted  suet,  and  seal  air 
tight,  using  new  rubbers  and  observing  all  the  usual  canning 
precautions.  Set  the  jars  away  in  a  permanent  storage  place, 
which  should  be  cool,  dark  and  dry,  and  do  not  move  the  cans 
after  once  setting  away.  The  melted  suet  on  top  will  harden, 
and  moving  the  cans  after  the  layer  of  suet  has  hardened  is 
apt  to  break  it.  Sausages  should  be  pricked  and  boiled  in 
water  until  tender,  and  packed  in  jars  the  same  as  meat,  with 
a  layer  of  melted  lard  or  suet  on  top.  Everything  wants  to 
be  boiling  hot  when  canned,  sealed  air  tight,  and  set  away 
while  hot.  Great  care  must  be  taken  to  use  only  perfect,  air- 
tight cans.  This  recipe  for  canning  meat  has  been  used  in  our 
family  successfully  for  many  years. — [Mrs.  M.  R.,  N.  Y. 

Smoking  Meat 

The  smokehouse  should  be  large  enough  and  have  enough 
ventilation  to  prevent  the  meat  becoming  overheated.  It  is 
best  to  have  the  fire  outside,   with  a  length  of  stovepipe  to 


THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK        241 


conduct  tlie  smoke  into  the  house.  Hard  wood,  such  as  maple 
or  green  hickory,  smothered  with  sawdust  of  the  same,  are 
the  best  for  smoking  meat,  and  corncobs  the  next  best.  Wood 
with  resin,  as  spruce  or  pine,  gives  a  bad  flavor  to  the  meat. 
There  is  a  low,  prickly,  evergreen  shrub,  bearing  green  ber- 
ries, that  grows  in  some  localities,  and  where  this  can  be  had 
it  is  nicer  than  anything  else,  giving  the  meat  a  delicious 
flavor.  Meat  to  be  smoked  should  be  well  washed,  or  scrubbed 
with  a  hand  brush  in  tepid  water,  to  prevent  a  crust  of 
salt  forming  on  the  outside,  or  if  very  salt,  soaked  over  night. 
It  should  hang  and  dry  out  a  day  before  being  put  into  the 
smokehouse,  and  then  hung  so  no  two  pieces  touch  each 
other.  The  fire  should  be  slow  at  first,  to  heat  up  the  meat 
gradually,  and  meat  should  never  be  frozen  when  put  in  the 
smokehouse.  In  cold  weather  it  is  best  to  keep  the  fire  going 
steadily  until  finished,  or  the  meat  will  not  smoke  evenly, 
owing  to  the  inside  being  too  cold  for  the  smoke  to  penetrate, 
after  cooling.  Thirty-six  hours  will  smoke  meat  nicely,  if 
the  fire  is  kept  going  steadily,  or  in  warm  weather  a  fire  built 
every  other  day  for  two  weeks  cures  it  nicely,  keeping  the 
ventilator  screened  and  the  house  dark,  to  exclude  flies. — 
[F  &  H. 

Keeping  Smoked  Meat 

If  the  meat  can  be  kept  away  from  flies,  it  will  keep  nicely 
in  a  cool,  dry  cellar,  but  if  one  fly  can  get  at  it,  it  must  be 
otherwise  protected.  A  good  and  easy  way  is  to  wrap  in  paper 
and  then  in  muslin  sacks,  and  bury  in  a  grain  bin,  by  this 
method  keeping  a  uniform  temperature  and  excluding  insects. 
If  this  cannot  be  done,  it  will  be  absolutely  safe  if  wrapped  in 
paper  and  put  in  muslin  sacks,  and  the  sacks  completely 
coated  with  either  ordinary  lime  whitewash  or  "yellow  wash," 
and  hung  up  so  they  do  not  touch.  The  directions  for  "yel' 
low  wash"  are:  3  lbs  barites,  4  lbs  flour,  Vs  lb  chrome  yel- 
low, 1-6  lb  glue.  Make  the  day  before  using.  Heat  1%  gals 
water  and  add  the  flour,  mixed  to  a  smooth  paste.  Dissolve 
the  chrome  in  1  qt  water  and  add  it.  Boil,  stirring  con- 
stantly, and  adding  barites  slowly.  Apply  cold  with  a  brush, 
and  stir  often  while  using. — [P  &  H. 

Smoking  In  a  Box 

Take  a  large,  light  box,  place  hooks  inside  the  top  to  hang 
the  meat  on,  and  have  a  hole  made  on  the  side  to  fit  a  stove- 
pipe. Then  take  an  old  discarded  heater  and  fit  the  pipe 
to  the  box,  with  the  stove  outside  the  box.  Have  a  lid  or 
door  on  one  side  of  the  box,  so  you  can  look  to  the  meat. 
Start  a  fire  with  a  few  dry  cobs,  fill  partly  with  straw,  and 


242  THE   ORANGE  JUDD   COOK  BOOK 


then  with  boughs  of  cedar.  If  kept  up  all  day,  the  meat  will 
be  done  by  night.  The  meat  should  have  been  in  brine  for 
2  or  3  weeks,  then  hung  up  to  dry  a  little,  before  smoking. 
When  smoked,  let  hang  in  box  until  ready  to  put  down.  Wrap 
the  pieces  in  cloths,  put  in  a  barrel,  and  cover  with  oats. 

A  Barrel  Smoker 

Screw  3  or  4  hooks  in  the  inside  of  the  bottom  of  a  good 
clean,  close  and  large  barrel,  and  turn  it  over  an  iron  vessel 
in  which  a  few  live  coals  have  been  placed,  with  corn  cobs 
and  hickory  chips  piled  on  top,  to  make  a  steady  smoke. 
Hang  the  hams,  shoulders  or  pieces  on  the  hooks,  but  be  care- 
ful not  to  crowd  in  too  many,  or  the  smoke  cannot  reach  all 
parts.  The  smoking  should  be  done  slowly,  evenly  and 
steadily.  A  little  ventilation  is  needed,  or  the  fire  will  go 
out,  but  not  enough  to  allow  too  much  smoke  to  escape. — 
[A.  G.,  Mass. 

Smoked  Barrel  for  Bacon  and  Hams 

Put  a  few  live  coals  in  an  iron  kettle,  cover  with  clean 
com  cobs,  turn  a  clean  barrel  over  this  kettle,  and  smoke  2 
hours  at  a  time  for  2  days.  If  smoked  too  long  at  a  time, 
it  would  shrink  the  barrel.  When  thoroughly  smoked,  put  a 
brine  in  the  barrel  made  of  10  lbs  salt,  8  ozs  saltpeter  and 
2y2  qts  molasses,  for  every  100  lbs  meat.  Add  water  enough 
to  cover  the  meat.  Pack  the  meat  in  this  brine  and  weight 
down.  The  smoked  barrel  will  impart  the  smoked  flavor  to 
the  meat. — [Miss  G.  A.  P.,  N.  H. 

Treating  Hams  After  Smoking 

Have  a  boiler  full  of  boiling  water,  dip  the  hams  in,  and 
let  them  remain  2  or  3  minutes,  then  remove,  and  cover 
Ihem  with  a  thick  paste  made  of  flour,  water  and  cayenne 
pepper.  The  paste  should  be  red  with  the  pepper.  Hang 
the  covered  hams  in  the  sun  until  the  paste  covering  is  dry. 
Then  put  in  stout  paper  sacks,  tie  closely,  and  hang  in  a  dark 
and  cool  place. — [Mrs.  J.  S.  H.,  111. 

To  Keep  Meat  Without  Smoking 

After  the  animal  heat  has  gone  out  of  the  meat,  pack  the 
pieces  away  in  dry  salt  4  weeks,  after  which  dip  each  piece 
in  a  very  strong  solution  of  boiling  hot  salt  water,  dry  oft 
and  rub  thoroughly  with  borax  and  black  pepper. — [Mrs.  M. 
G.  P..  I.  T. 


THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK        243 


To  Di-y  Sugar  Oiu'e  Meat 

For  400  lbs  meat  allow  10  lbs  salt,  l*/^  lbs  each  black 
pepper  and  brown  sugar,  and  4  ozs  saltpeter.  Mix  well 
together  and  rub  each  piece  of  meat  well  with  this  mixture, 
using  the  hands,  about  5  or  10  minutes.  Do  not  pile  up  the 
pieces  of  meat,  but  lay  them  out  on  a  board  or  table,  skim 
side  down,  in  a  cool  place,  but  not  cold  enough  to  freeze. 
Let  them  stay  there  4  to  6  weeks,  after  which  they  will  be 
ready  to  smoke.  After  smoking  wrap  them  in  clean,  sweet 
hay  then  put  them  in  muslin  sacks,  and  hang  in  a  cool,  dark 
place. —  [Mrs.  A.  W.,  Mo. 

Dry  Cured  Pork 

For  each  100  lbs  pork  use  5  lbs  salt,  2  lbs  sugar  and  2  ozs 
saltpeter.  Mix  well  and  divide  into  three  parts.  Rub  the 
meat  thoroughly  with  a  third  of  the  mixture  at  intervals  of 
3  days,  packing  very  closely  in  the  barrel,  and  reversing 
the  order  of  the  pieces  at  each  rubbing.  If  there  is  a  good 
deal  of  meat,  it  is  easier  to  have  two  barrels,  putting  the  meat 
into  one,  as  it  is  taken  from  the  other,  and  pouring  over  the 
little  liquid,  if  any  forms.  After  the  last  rubbing  let  it  lie  for 
10  days  in  the  barrel,  when  it  will  be  cured  and  ready  for 
smoking.  While  curing,  the  meat  must  be  kept  in  a  cool  and 
moist  place,  and  unless  it  can  be,  it  is  best  to  use  the  brine 
method. —  [F  &  H. 

Salt  Cured  Pork 

Heat  salt  in  a  baking  pan  in  the  oven,  until  it  is  thoroughly 
hot,  then  rub  it  in  the  fleshy  side  of  the  meat  with  a  large 
flat  spoon,  as  it  will  be  too  hot  to  apply  with  the  hand.  Rub 
all  on  that  will  stick  to  the  meat — for  large  hams  two  applica- 
tions will  be  necessary.  This  does  not  harden  the  lean  meat, 
as  brine  does.  Be  sure  to  keep  the  salt  hot.  I  have  cured 
meat  in  this  way  in  hot  weather,  and  never  lost  any — the 
salt  strikes  in  so  quickly  that  it  cannot  spoil. — [Farmer's 
Wife,  Col. 

The  Barrel  for  Pickling  or  Curing 

It  is  most  important  that  the  barrel  for  pickling  meat 
should  be  absolutely  clean.  First  scald  and  scrape  the  barrel 
thoroughly,  then  set  into  the  barrel  a  vessel  containing  a  small 
lump  of  quicklime,  pour  a  pail  of  boiling  hot  water  over  the 
lime,  cover  the  barrel,  and  let  the  fumes  of  the  slacking  lime 
sweeten  it.  After  this  wash  the  barrel  again,  then  put  in  a 
generous  armful  of  new  sweet  hay,  paur  over  plenty  boiling 


244        THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK 

water,  cover  closely,  and  leave  until  cold.  After  this,  thor- 
oughly rinse  the  barrel  again  with  fresh  water,  and  if  any 
bad  odor  remains,  the  case  is  hopeless  and  a  new  barrel  an 
unavoidable  necessity. — [Mrs.  E.  L.  G.,  N.  Y. 

To  Cure  Hams 

For  100  lbs  meat  allow  7  lbs  salt,  2%  lbs  brown  sugar,  2 
ozs  saltpeter,  and  suflacient  water  to  cover  the  meat,  when 
closely  packed  in  a  barrel.  Boil  the  salt,  sugar,  saltpeter  and 
water,  skim  and  then  add  1  oz  cayenne  pepper  and  2  ozs 
each  ground  clove  and  black  pepper.  Cool,  and  when  cold 
pour  over  the  meat,  weight  down,  cover,  and  set  away  in.  a 
cool  place. —  [Mrs.  F.  C.  F.,  N.  H. 

Preserving  Meat  Joints 

For  medium  sized  joints  allow  2  tablesp  black  pepper,  1 
tablesp  red  pepper,  3  tablesp  brown  sugar,  and  1  pt  salt. 
Mix  thoroughly  and  apply  dry  to  each  joint  all  that  can  be 
made  to  adhere.  Take  a  square  of  muslin  large  enough  to 
enclose  the  joint  and  lay  it  on  the  table.  Then  lay  on  the 
cloth  two  or  three  thicknesses  of  paper  and  sprinkle  some  of 
the  mixture  on  it.  Lay  the  joint  on  and  thoroughly  rub  the 
remainder  of  the  mixture  on,  rubbing  and  stuffing  it  well  into 
the  bone  end.  Wrap  the  paper  closely  around  the  meat,  then 
fold  the  cloth  around,  sew  fast,  tie,  and  hang  up  in  a  cool 
place.— [S.  K.  S. 

Dried  Beef 

The  round  makes  the  best  dried  beef.  For  every  20  lbs 
beef,  use  1  pt  salt,  1  teasp  saltpeter,  and  %  lb  sugar.  Mix 
well  together,  d.ivide  into  three  parts,  and  rub  well  into  the 
meat  for  three  successive  days.  Keep  the  beef  in  a  jar  and 
turn  it  over  frequently  in  the  liquid,  which  will  fprm  of  itself. 
After  it  has  soaked  in  this  about  a  week,  hang  it  up  to  dry, 
and  after  that  smoke,  if  liked.  When  dry,  sprinkle  with  pep- 
per, tie  up  in  paper  bags,  and  hang  up  in  a  cool,  dry  place. — 
[Mrs.  J.  L.  R.,  O. 

Corned  Beef 

Use  only  the  poorer  parts  for  corning,  such  as  brisket, 
flanks,  crossribs,  and  plate,  and  cut  into  pieces  6  inches  square. 
Fifty  lbs  meat  will  require  50  lbs  salt.  Sprinkle  a  layer  of 
salt  in  the  keg  or  barrel,  put  in  a  layer  of  meat,  packing  very 
closely,  then  a  layer  of  salt,  then  more  meat  and  salt,  until 
all  is  used,  leaving  just  enough  salt  for  a  good  layer  over  the 


THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK        245 


top.  Let  stand  over  night,  then  dissolve  1  oz  baking  soda, 
2  lbs  sugar,  2  ozs  saltpeter  in  2  gals  tepid  water,  and  after 
it  is  cold  pour  it  over  the  meat.  Two  gallons  should  cover 
the  50  lbs  meat,  if  packed  right.  If  not,  use  the  same  pro- 
portions in  making  more.  Weight  with  a  board  and  stone, 
and  let  stand  from  30  to  40  days  before  using.  If  kept  over 
in  hot  weather,  watch  the  brine,  and  if  it  gets  "ropy,"  pour 
it  off,  wash  the  meat,  and  cover  with  a  new  brine. —  [F  &  H. 

Beef  Pickle  I 

To  1 V2  lbs  salt,  add  V2  lb  sugar,  1  teasp  soda,  V2  teasp  salt- 
peter and  1  gal  water.  This  pickle  can  also  be  used  for  sau- 
sage. Be  sure  to  weight  down  the  meat  or  sausage,  so  as  to 
keep  well  under  the  pickle. — [Mrs.  C,  No  address. 

Beef  Pickle  II 

For  100  lbs  beef,  use  Vz  pk  salt,  %  lb  each  saltpeter  and 
soda,  and  1  qt  molasses,  or  2  lbs  brown  sugar.  Dissolve  the 
saltpeter,  soda  and  salt  in  a  little  warm  water.  The  meat 
will  be  ready  to  use  in  10  days.  For  spiced  beef,  add  mace, 
cloves  and  allspice  to  the  above  pickle. — [Mrs.  C,  No  address. 

Brine  for  Pork 

For  100  lbs  pork  allow  10  lbs  salt,  3  lbs  brown  sugar,  2  ozs 
saltpeter,  1  oz  cayenne  pepper,  and  4i/^  or  5  gals  water.  Let 
boil  5  minutes,  skim  well,  let  get  perfectly  cold,  and  then  pour 
over  meat  packed  in  large  jars  or  barrels.  Put  in  a  weight 
to  keep  the  meat  under  the  brine,  cover  the  jar  and  set  away 
in  a  cool  place.  Meat  kept  in  this  way  is  never  rancid  and 
flies  do  not  get  at  it.  In  the  spring  draw  off  the  brine,  boil  it 
again,  skim  well,  let  get  cold,  and  pour  over  the  meat  again> 
—[Mrs.  P.  O.  B.,  Mont. 

Sweet  Pickle  for  Pork 

For  100  lbs  of  side  meat  or  hams  allow  8  lbs  clean,  coarse 
salt,  2  Ibc  brown  sugar,  or  1  qt  molasses,  3  ozs  soda,  2  ozs  salt- 
peter and  sufficient  water  to  dissolve  these  ingredients.  Put 
over  the  fire  and  just  before  it  boils,  skim  well,  let  it  boil  up 
once,  skim  again,  and  when  perfectly  cold  pour  it  over  the 
me:it,  packed  in  a  jar  or  barrel.  Weight  down  so  that  the 
mea,t  will  always  be  under  the  brine,  cover,  and  set  in  a  cool 
place.  After  5  or  6  weeks  lift  the  sides  and  hams  out  of  this 
brine,  let  drain  and  smoke  well  with  corn  cob,  hickory  or 
maple  chips.  We  have  used  this  recipe  for  years,  and  I  am 
sure  that  anyone  who  will  try  it  will  be  very  well  pleased 
with  it. —  [Mrs.  M.  J.  S.,  N.  U, 


246  THE   ORANGE  JUDD   COOK  BOOK 


Pickle  for  Pork  Sausage 

For  every  gal  sausage  in  cases  allow  1  cup  salt  and  1  cup 
brown  sugar,  thoroughly  mixed.  Place  layers  of  sausage  in 
jars  and  sprinkle  the  mixture  between  each  layer.  Put  a 
stone  on  top,  and  if  a  brine  does  not  form  in  3  days,  make  a 
little  cold  brine  and  pour  it  over. —  [Mrs.  M.  J.  L.,  Mich, 

Souse 

Use  the  head  of  a  hog  and  any  other  small  parts  of  the 
animal  that  are  not  too  fat.  Clean  the  head  thoroughly  and 
do  not  spare  yourself  any  pains  during  this  process,  to  make 
sure  that  everything  is  as  clean  as  you  can  possibly  make  it. 
Soak  in  salt  water  for  several  hours,  then  scrape  and  clean 
again,  and  then  soak  once  more  in  salt  water  for  several 
hours,  after  which  put  in  a  kettle,  cover  with  cold  water,  add 
salt,  and  boil  slowly  until  the  meat  will  separate  from  the 
bones,  and  all  the  gristle  is  perfectly  soft.  Next  remove  from 
the  fire,  drain,  remove  all  the  bones,  and  hard  gristle  from 
the  meat  and  from  the  liquor.  Put  a  layer  of  meat  and  fat, 
distributed  evenly,  in  a  stone  jar,  sprinkle  well  with  salt  and 
pepper,  and  then  pour  over  a  generous  allowance  of  hot,  boiled 
cider  vinegar.  Then  put  in  another  layer  of  meat,  seasoning, 
and  boiled  cider  vinegar,  and  so  on  until  the  meat  is  all  used, 
or  the  jar  is  full  to  within  3  or  4  inches  of  the  top,  topping 
off  with  salt,  pepper  and  vinegar.  Be  careful  to  pack  the 
meat  firmly  and  closely  together,  and  to  have  it  covered  with 
the  vinegar.  Boil  down  liquor  in  which  the  meat  was  cooked 
until  there  is  only  a  little  of  it  left,  being  careful  not  to  let 
it  burn.  Season  well  with  salt  and  pepper  (it  should  be  con- 
siderably more  salt  than  palatable),  and  when  the  meat  in 
the  jar  is  thoroughly  cold,  pour  this  hot,  boiled-down  liquor 
over  the  meat,  and  when  all  has  become  cold,  cover  the  jar 
well  and  store  it  in  a  cold  place.  When  wanted  for  use, 
scrape  away  a  little  of  the  jelly  at  one  side  of  the  jar,  cut  out 
slices  of  the  souse,  and  return  the  displaced  jelly,  spreading 
it  over  smoothly.  The  sliced  souse  can  be  fried  in  hot  butter, 
but  first  drain  off  the  liquid  by  allowing  the  souse  to  stand 
in  the  pan  on  the  back  of  the  stove  a  while.  This  will  extract 
the  vinegar,  and  after  frying  brown  in  butter,  the  souse  will 
be  deliciously  crisp.  Serve  with  hot,  baked  potatoes. — [Mrs. 
N.  P.,  N.  H. 

Pickled  Pig's  Feet 

Soak  the  feet  over  night  in  cold  water,  remove  the  toes  and 
scrape  clean,  boil  until  very  tender,  and  salt  before  they  are 
done.  Pack  in  a  stone  jar  or  keg  and  cover  with  hot,  spiced 
vinegar,  using  whole  cloves,  allspice  and  pepper.     Nice  eaten 


THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK        247 


just  so,  or  heated  up  in  boiling  water,  or  split,  rolled  in  flour^ 
and  fried  a  nice  brown  on  both  sides  in  hot  fat.  Will  keep 
indefinitely. — [Farmer's  Wife,  Col. 

Pickled  Tongue  I 

Use  either  beef  or  pork  tongues.  Scald,  trim,  scrape  and 
boil  until  tender,  in  salted  water.  When  cold,  cut  in  i/^-inch 
slices,  and  cover  with  cold  vinegar.  Boiled  pigs  feet  are  also 
very  nice  when  pickled  in  vinegar. —  [Mrs.  C.  B.  B.,  Kan. 

Pickled  Tongue  II 

For  the  brine  allow  1  gal  water,  3  lbs  salt,  4  ozs  sugar, 
and  2  ozs  saltpeter.  Boil  and  cool,  then  put  in  the  trimmed 
and  cleaned  tongues,  and  weight  to  keep  them  under  brine. 
Will  keep  any  length  of  time.  When  wanted  to  use,  soak 
over  night  in  cold  water,  boil  until  tender,  skim,  remove  skin, 
slice,  and  serve  with  mustard.  Or,  if  liked  pickled,  slice 
and  cover  with  spiced  vinegar.  Will  keep  after  being  pickled. 
' — [Farmer's  Wife,  Col. 

Pickled  Tripe  and  Beef  Tongue 

Clean  the  tripe  thoroughly,  cut  in  pieces,  and  sprinkle 
lightly  with  unslacked  lime.  Roll  up  each  piece  separately, 
with  the  furrowed  side  inside,  place  the  rolls  in  a  tub  and 
pour  over  enough  cold  water  to  cover.  Let  stand  about  10  or 
15  minutes,  then  lift  out  the  pieces,  lay  them  on  a  board, 
scrape  them  well  and  rinse  them  clean  in  cold  water,  after 
which  put  them  in  a  tub  and  cover  with  a  weak  brine,  allow- 
ing them  to  remain  there  about  12  hours.  After  removing 
from  this  brine,  scald  thena  with  boiling  water,  scrape  them 
again  lightly,  and  again  wash  in  cold  water,  after  which  they 
will  be  ready  for  pickling.  Make  a  hot  spiced  vinegar  by 
adding  1  teasp  each  of  allspice,  cloves  and  cinnamon,  to  1  qt 
vinegar,  and  V2  cup  sugar.  If  liked  very  spicy,  ^4  teasp 
cayenne  pepper  or  black  pepper  may  be  added.  Beef  tongue 
should  be  put  in  a  brine  or  pickle,  the  same  as  that  prepared 
for  beef,  and  allowed  to  remain  in  there  a  week,  after  which 
drain,  and  either  smoke  or  dry,  or  put  in  a  prepared  spiced 
vinegar,  as  directed  above. — [Mrs.  A.  C.  McP.,  O. 

To  Keep  Roast  Pork  in  Lard 

Take  pieces  of  the  side  meat  or  any  other  part  without 
bones,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  place  in  a  roasting  pan  in 
a  hot  oven,  and  roast  till  well  done,  but  do  not  scorch.  When 
well  done  pack  the  pieces  in  a  stone  jar  and  fill  all  the  spaces 


248  THE   ORANGE   JUDD   COOK  BOOK 


between,  and  cover  the  top,  with  fresh  melted  lard.  Tie  heavy 
paper  and  a  cloth  over  the  jar,  and  set  away  in  a  cool,  dry- 
place.  This  will  keep  until  warm  weather  comes.  Fresh 
sausage  cakes  can  be  kept  in  the  same  way.  After  seasoning 
with  salt,  pepper  and  a  little  sage,  mould  the  sausage  meat 
into  little  cakes  about  1  inch  thick,  fry  until  well  done, 
and  pack  in  a  stone  jar  with  melted  lard,  the  same  as  directed 
above  for  the  roasted  meat — [Mrs.  H.  L.  J.,  Wash. 

To  Keep  Beefsteak  I 

Mix  together  equal  parts  of  salt  and  sugar  and  half  the 
amount  of  saltpeter.  Place  a  layer  of  steak  in  a  jar,  sprinkle 
with  this  mixture,  and  so  continue  until  the  jar  is  full,  then 
weight  down  with  an  inverted  plate  and  heavy  stone.  This 
will  form  a  brine  of  its  own,  and  the  meat  will  keep  sweet 
for  a  long  time.  Cover  well  and  store  in  a  cool,  dark  place. — 
[M.  D.,  O. 

To  Keep  Beefsteak  II 

Fry  beefsteak  as  for  the  table,  only  be  sure  it  is  not  the 
least  bit  rare,  then  pack  it  closely  in  jars  and  cover  well  with 
melted  lard.  Store  in  a  cool  place. — [Mrs.  E.  S.,  111. 

Smoked  Pig  Paunch 

Thoroughly  clean  a  pig  paunch  or  stomach,  and  boil  until 
well  done.  Take  as  much  lean  pork  as  it  will  require  to  fill 
the  stomach,  chop  fine,  and  cook  until  partly  done,  then  mix 
with  scant  V2  teasp  saltpeter,  and  season  with  salt,  ground 
pepper  and  cloves,  and  any  other  preferred  spices  to  taste. 
Pack  into  stomach  securely,  sew  up  and  then  return  to  the 
liquor  in  which  the  stomach  was  boiled,  and  let  boil  slowly 
1  hour.  Remove  from  fire  and  let  remain  in  this  liquid  over 
night,  then  drain  and  smoke  6  days.  Hang  in  a  cool,  dark, 
airy  place.  When  wanted,  cut  in  thin  slices  and  serve  with- 
out cooking. —  [Mrs.  G.  L.,  N.  Y. 

To  Try  Out  Lard  or  Suet 

Only  clear,  fat  pieces  of  meat  should  be  salted  dojvn  in  the 
pork  barrel,  and  all  the  thin,  streaky  pieces  of  lean  and  fat 
should  be  put  with  the  sausage  meat.  The  soft  fat  should 
be  cut  in  very  small  pieces  and  put  in  a  separate  kettle,  with 
a  little  water,  and  set  over  the  fire  to  try  out.  The  leaf  lard 
should  be  cut  up  fine  and  put  in  another  kettle,  with  a  little 
cold  water,  to  try  out.  While  the  lard  is  trying  out,  stir  it 
up  often  with  a  long  handled  spoon  or  skimmer,  and  be  very 


THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK        249 


careful  that  it  does  not  burn  or  scorch.  Stirring  it  often  will 
make  the  lard  try  out  more  evenly.  "When  the  little  pieces 
of  lard  have  shrunk  to  very  small  dark  brown  scraps,  strain 
lard  through  a  fine  wire  sieve  into  a  perfectly  dry  and  clean 
tin  pail.  For  the  sake  of  convenience  and  to  save  burning 
my  fingers,  I  hang  the  sieve  through  a  piece  of  board  cut  out 
to  fit  the  sieve.  The  board  should  be  long  enough  to  fit  across 
the  top  of  the  pail,  and  project  several  inches  on  either  side. 
This  little  board  will  not  only  save  your  temper,  but  will 
catch  all  the  scraps  that  may  fall  from  the  top  of  the  strainer, 
and  that  would  otherwise  fall  into  the  pail  of  lard.  The 
brown  scraps  should  be  turned  into  a  cheese  cloth  bag  and 
while  still  warm,  squeezed  between  wooden  squeezers  to  txtract 
any  of  the  lard  that  is  still  in  them.  These  squeezers  can  be 
made  of  two  flat  pieces  of  board  about  l^^  feet  long  and  5 
or  6  inches  wide,  joined  together  at  one  end  with  little  pieces 
of  leather,  and  the  other  end  whittled  for  handle.  The  lard 
squeezed  out  this  way  should  be  put  in  a  separate  pail.  When 
cold,  cover  the  pails  well  and  store  in  a  cool,  dry  place.  Suet 
is  tried  out  the  same  way.  After  the  suet  is  tried  out,  pour 
it  into  a  pan  of  ice  cold  water,  and  when  hard,  wipe  it  dry, 
wrap  in  white  paper,  and  then  put  in  a  linen  or  close  cloth 
bag  and  hang  in  a  cool,  dry  place.  Excellent  for  pie  crust. — 
[Mrs.  N.  P.,  N.  H. 

Canned  Suet 

Trim  and  chop  suet  fine,  add  salt  to  taste,  and  1  cup  molas- 
ses for  every  cup  suet.  Can  in  air-tight  jars.  This  is  fine  to 
put  in  cakes  or  puddings  and  no  other  shortening  will  be 
needed. — [Mrs.  K.  St.  J.,  N.  Y. 

Calf's  or  Hog's  Head  Cheese 

Put  a  large  kettle  over  the  fire,  almost  filled  with  water, 
and  let  heat  to  boiling  point.  You  will  need  a  large  kettle  as 
the  calf's  head  should  be  almost  entirely  under  water.  After 
the  butchering,  when  the  animal  heat  is  well  out  of  the  head, 
lift  it  by  one  ear  and  hold  it  in  the  kettle  of  boiling  water, 
nose  down.  It  will  scald  in  a  few  minutes,  so  that  with  a 
sharp  knife  you  can  easily  scrape  off  the  hair,  leaving  the 
head  nice  and  white  and  clean.  Wash  thoroughly,  then  saw 
off  the  nose,  just  at  the  comers  of  the  mouth,  being  careful 
not  to  saw  through  the  tongue,  or  to  saw  on  to  the  teeth. 
With  a  sharp,  pointed  knife,  take  the  eyeballs  out,  first  cutting 
the  muscles  around  them,  then  cut  off  the  ears  and  remove 
the  ear  drums,  and  then  wash  the  head  again  thoroughly  and 
rinse  in  cold  water,  after  which  put  in  a  kettle  or  pail  of 
cold  water  and  let  it  soak  over  night.     Fc  tliis^head  cheese 


250  THE   ORANGE  JUDD   COOK  BOOK 


I  also  use  the  heart,  liver  and  lungs  or  "lights,"  as  the  latter 
are  called,  also  the  legs,  as  far  as  the  knee.  Carefully  trim 
and  clean  the  heart,  liver  and  lungs,  and  let  these  soak  in  cold 
water  over  night.  The  legs  should  be  scalded,  scraped 
cleaned  and  washed,  and  also  put  to  soak  in  cold  water  over 
night.  Next  morning  rinse  all  in  clean  cold  water,  and  then 
put  over  the  fire  in  several  kettles  of  cold  water  to  cook, 
adding  salt.  Cook  slowly  until  the  meat  drops  from  the 
bones,  then  drain,  pick  out  all  the  bones,  and  chop  or  grind 
fine.  The  tongue  should  be  removed  whole,  root  end  cut  off 
and  discarded,  the  rough  skin  or  coating  scraped  off,  and  saved 
for  a  separate  dainty,  to  be  served  cold,  in  slices.  After  chop- 
ping all  the  meat,  add  enough  boiled-down  liquid  in  which  the 
meat  was  cooked,  to  make  the  meat  very  moist.  The  liquid 
will  be  jelly-like  and  will  help  to  make  the  meat  hold  together, 
so  that  it  can  be  easily  sliced  when  cold.  Add  salt  and  pep- 
per and  a  little  sage  to  taste,  and  while  hot  turn  into  molds 
and  set  away  to  cool  and  harden.  Cover  with  melted  lard  and 
store  in  a  cold  place.  Hog's  head  cheese  is  prepared  in  the 
same  manner,  discarding  most  of  the  fat.  If  there  seems  to 
be  too  much  fat  on  the  liquid  left  after  cooking  the  head  and 
legs,  skim  the  fat  off  and  use  the  liquid  underneath.  Nice 
sliced,  rolled  in  fiour,  and  fried  brown  on  both  sides. — [Mrs. 
E.  C.  W.,  Me. 

Hog's  Head  Pudding 

Cut  the  meat  from  hog's  head,  discard  the  skin,  and  also 
use  the  heart,  tongue  and  part  of  the  liver.  Wash  all 
thoroughly  and  scald  the  tongues  to  remove  the  coating.  Cook 
until  tender,  then  grind  or  chop  fine  and  season  with  salt  and 
pepper,  after  which  return  to  the  liquor  in  which  the  meat 
was  cooked,  and  when  it  begins  to  boil,  thicken  with  buck- 
wheat flour  or  cornmeal.  Be  sure  to  season  just  right,  and 
have  the  pudding  stiff  enough,  so  it  can  be  cut  in  slices  when 
cold,  to  fry,  like  mush. —  [Miss  A.  E.  H.,  Pa. 

Potted  Beef,  Ham,  Tongue  or  Liver 

Boil  either  tongue  or  liver  in  salted  water  until  very  tender 
and  put  through  the  meat  grinder.  Boil  down  the  liquid 
until  there  is  just  enough  to  moisten  the  meat  nicely,  being 
careful  it  is  not  too  salty.  Mix  well  with  the  meat,  heat,  put 
in  little  jars,  and  pour  melted  suet,  lard  or  butter  over  the 
top,  when  cold.  Potted  ham  can  be  made  in  the  same  way. — 
[Farmer's  Wife,  Col. 

To  1  lb  boiled  lean  ham  add  V2  lb  ham  fat,  or  if  preferred, 
butter,  a  little  cayenne  pepper  and  white  pepper,  mix  all 
together,   pound   until  smooth,   press   firmly   into   small  jars. 


How  TO  Roast  Beef.      [See  directions  on   page  205.] 


(D'd   t-TJ  0)  41  >. 

'-'  01  O  <D  W  Sh^ 

-2  ?:  <H  m  ce  o  t; 

.£.SS«-|g 

„'nc'SSS-° 

.,^  O'  03      x^      a> 

o  o  (ij:!it3  r- 

«(-i  Gj      j::  OJ  <u+j 

'J) 

comes 
r  silver 

town 
he  top 
of  the 
nd  be  s 
es  on  tl 

f. 

_' 

>>o  n)      w  <^  u 

r^ 

TS     ^  t,  a  .2 

X 

c^t;       >  o  Sh 

o  p  r-  o      «5: 

^ 

be  C       73  O  n3 

~ 

a;      o  'c:  oj  x;  a; 

^ 

,5  •-<  =*-!  o  :;:2  t,  to 
*^_      d  sh  ce  oj 

K 

^  t3  ai^«H  o  sh 

>ia;  cc  a         -o 

■^ 

X 

i< 

-H 

5 

*a.r>.-i'Sg 

'^ 

2-^  o  o  cc  c^  a>r 

i; 

'O      _  o  .li!  s-i  a>  1, 
«  0)  O  M  i     .  aJ  ° 

you  have  prepa 
tire.     Some  piec 
lis,"   which,   if  y 
rom  round  piece 
le  side  of  the  ni 
dd-s'haped  boxes 
li  the  candy.     PI 
h  narrow  green 

After 
liday  at 
per  "fri 
urseif  f: 
wn  to  tl 
make  o 
iing-  witl 
per.  wit 

O  Oj  O  O  t.—  c3 

^  ft^^-O  otc  ft 

THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK        251 

cover  with  melted  butter  or  lard,  seal,  and  store  in  a  cool 
place. —  [I.  C,  Va. 

Boil  beef  until  it  is  tender  and  separate  from  the  bones. 
Then  mince  the  meat  fine,  reason  to  taste,  and  pack  down 
solidly  in  small  close  jars,  topping  off  with  melted  suet.  Cover 
and  store  in  a  cool  place. —  [Mrs.  E.  R.  W.,  Va. 

Sausage  Casings 

Casings  can  be  made  from  the  intestines  of  beef,  hogs,  or 
sheep,  the  sheep  casings  being  used  for  small  sausage,  like 
wiener-wurst,  and  hog  casings  for  link  sausages,  and  beef 
for  bologna  sausage,  ham  sausage,  and  blood  sausage. 
Empty  as  soon  as  possible,  turn  inside  out  and  scrape  and 
clean  first  the  in  and  then  the  outside.  The  cleaning  is  easy 
where  one  has  running  water.  Soak  24  hours  in  lime  water 
or  lye  v/ater,  turn,  scrape  and  rinse  again,  then  salt  down  and 
use  when  needed.  When  one  cannot  clean  the  casings,  good 
substitutes  can  be  made  by  stitching  up  tubes  of  new 
unbleached  muslin,  1^  or  2  feet  long,  and  2  or  3  inches  in 
diameter,  when  filled.  When  ready  to  hang  away,  rub  the 
outside  well  with  melted  lard,  to  exclude  all  air,  and  sprinkle 
with  pepper. — [Parmer's  Wife,  Col. 

Uses  for  Bladders 

Wash,  scrape  and  clean  thoroughly,  soak  in  salt  water, 
rinse,  and  then  inflate  and  tie  them.  When  making  preserves, 
cut  off  pieces  large  enough  to  cover  the  mouths  of  the  jars, 
pour  boiling  water  over  the  bladder  pieces,  then  stretch  them 
tightly  over  the  jars  and  tie  securely.  These  are  equal  to  self- 
sealing,  air-tight  cans.  Bladders  are  also  useful  to  keep  sau- 
sage meat.  Stuff  full  of  the  sausage  meat,  tie  securely  and 
smoke. — [B.  M.  R.,  Va. 

Filling  Sausage 

Sausage  meat  should  be  finely  ground,  as  it  keeps  and  holds 
together  better.  Beef  alone,  or  pork  alone  can  be  used,  but 
better  two-thirds  fat  and  lean  pork,  and  one-third  beef.  Vary 
the  seasoning  by  using  pepper,  onions,  sage,  nutmeg  or  cloves 
— the  latter  two  are  not  very  common.  For  filling  the  skins 
a  piece  of  bone  2  or  3  inches  long  is  most  serviceable,  but  a 
piece  of  tin,  shaped  into  a  funnel,  smallest  end  a  trifle  smaller 
than  skins,  will  do  very  nicely.  Insert  this  funnel  into  one 
end,  hold  in  left  hand,  and  proceed  to  fill,  using  the  thumb  to 
force  the  meat  down.  Prick  the  casings  often  with  a  hatpin, 
to  let  out  any  air.  To  have  a  change  make  some  with  cooked 
barley  and  some  with  potato  (raw),  finely  chopped  or  ground. 
Use  the  proportion  of  ^/i  of  barley  or  potatoes.  This  is  fine. — ■ 
[Farmer's  Wife.  Col. 


252  THE   ORANGE  JUDD   COOK  BOOK 


Liver  Sausage  I 

*^ 

•  Boil  liver  till  done,  chop,  season  with  black  and  red  pepper, 
sage  and  salt,  and  pack  in  casings  or  long  narrow  muslin 
bags,  and  hang  up  to  dry.  Smoke  with  sassafras  chips. — 
[No  Name. 

Liver  Sausage  II 

Boil  the  liver  and  heart  until  tender.  Chop  very  fine,  sea- 
son to  taste  with  salt  and  pepper.  Add  some  clean  currants, 
if  liked,  mix  well,  and  fill  into  casings.  Should  be  fried  brown 
and  served  hot. — [Mrs.  G.  L.,  N.  Y. 

Liver  Sausage  III 

Boil  a  pig's  liver  10  minutes,  then  grind  or  chop  fine  and 
add  twice  as  much  cooked  lean  pork,  and  i/4  lb  fresh  bacon, 
also  ground  or  chopped.  Season  to  taste  with  salt  and  ground 
pepper,  cloves  and  nutmeg.  Fill  into  casings,  leaving  about 
2  inches  space  in  each  sausage  unfilled,  as  the  liver  swells. 
Boil  the  sausages  %  hour  in  salted  water,  then  put  them  in 
cold  water  10  minutes,  after  which  they  may  be  smoked  or 
hung  in  a  cool  place  to  dry. — [Mrs.  J.  P.  D.,  Neb. 

Kidney,  Heart  and  Liver  Sausage 

Split  the  kidneys  and  soak  them  in  strong  salt  water, 
changing  the  water  several  times,  then  wash  thoroughly  and 
put  them  in  a  large  kettle  with  the  heart  and  liver,  bits  of 
pork  rind,  and  scraps  of  lean  pork.  Cover  with  water  and 
boil  until  tender.  The  liver  must  be  lifted  out  after  boiling 
10  or  15  minutes,  as  it  does  not  require  such  long  boiling 
as  the  rest.  When  the  meat  is  all  tender  run  through  a  sau- 
sage grinder,  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  a  little  thyme,  pack 
into  crocks,  and  set  the  crocks  on  the  back  of  the  range  until 
they  are  hot.  This  helps  to  pack  the  meat  more  solidly. 
Cover  with  melted  lard  and  set  away  in  a  cool  place. — [Mrs. 
E.  S.,  111. 

Mixed  Sausage 

This  can  be  made  of  almost  any  proportion  of  beef  and 
pork  one  has  when  both  are  killed  at  once,  but  is  nice  made 
in  the  proportions  of  2  lbs  lean  pork,  1  lb  lean  beef,  and  1  lb 
fat  pork.  This  should  be  ground  and  seasoned  the  same  as 
pork  sausage,  and  kept  in  the  same  way,  in  casings,  or  jars 
with  lard  run  over.  It  is  better  to  use  several  small  jars  than 
one  large  one. — [Farmer's  Wife.  Col. 


THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK        253 


Bologna  Sausage  I 

Chop  very  fine  6  lbs  lean  beef,  1  lb  salt  pork,  3  lbs  lean 
fresh  pork  and  1  lb  beef  suet.  Mix  well,  then  add  1  oz  ground 
white  pepper,  1  teasp  ground  mace,  3  ozs  salt,  ^  teasp  cay- 
enne pepper,  and  1  large  onion,  chopped  very  fine.  Mix  well 
then  fill  into  casings,  or  muslin  bags.  Make  a  strong  brine 
that  will  float  an  egg,  put  the  sausage  in  this,  and  let  remain  2 
weeks,  turning  and  skimming  every  day.  At  the  end  of  the 
first  week,  throw  away  old  brine,  and  put  the  sausage  in  a 
new  brine  for  the  second  week,  then  take  out,  drain  and  smoke 
for  a  week.  After  smoking,  rub  over  the  outside  thoroughly 
with  melted  lard,  and  if  you  wish  to  keep  the  sausage  for  any 
length  of  time,  sprinkle  outside  liberally  with  pepper,  after 
rubbing  with  lard.  Hang  in  a  cool,  dry  and  dark  place. — » 
[Mrs.  F.  E-  A.,  Wash. 

Bologna  Sausage  n 

Chop  or  grind  very  fine  50  lbs  beef,  add  3  lbs  sugar,  8  ozs 
pepper,  2%  ozs  saltpeter  and  2^^  pts  salt.  Mix  the  dry 
ingredients  thoroughly,  then  mix  thoroughly  with  the  meat  and 
fill  into  casings  or  thin  muslin  bags  about  4  inches  wide  and 
12  inches  long.  Do  not  put  these  sausages  into  brine,  but 
smoke  them  until  thoroughly  dry. — [Mrs.  C,  no  address. 

Bologna  Sausage  HI 

Use  trimmings  of  fat  and  lean  portions  of  pork,  taking 
care  to  have  twice  as  much  lean  as  fat.  After  trimming  and 
cutting,  weigh  the  pork  and  add  %  its  weight  of  lean  beef. 
Chop  or  grind  fine  and  then  season  with  2^^  lbs  salt  and  10 
ozs  ground  pepper  for  each  100  lbs  ground  meat.  A  little  sage 
or  thyme  may  also?  be  added,  if  liked.  Mix  thoroughly  and 
let  stand  in  a  cool  place  about  24  hours,  after  which  fill  into 
casings  and  fry  down  in  hot  lard.  Put  into  crocks  and  cover 
with  hot  lard,  and  store  in  a  cool  place. — [Mrs.  E.  S.,  111. 

Bologna  Sausage  IV 

Add  1  lb  fat  pork  or  fat  bacon  to  each  10  lbs  lean  beef, 
and  grind  fine.  Season  with  1  oz  black  pepper,  Vz  oz  fine 
salt,  and  a  little  ground  coriander  seed  to  each  6  lbs  meat. 
Stuff  in  beef  casings,  making  1  foot  long  for  the  large  cas- 
ings, or  15  inches  for  the  small  ones,  tying  the  small  ones 
together  and  letting  the  large  ones  hang  straight.  Smoke 
12  hours,  then  boil  until  they  float  on  the  water.  Lay  on 
clean  hay  in  the  sun  until  dry,  and  then  hang  away  in  a  cool 
place. — [Farmer's  Wife.  Col. 


254  THE   ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK 


To  Prepare  Casings  for  Sausage 

Select  the  best  of  the  beef  casings,  empty  and  wash  them 
thoroughly,  then  throw  them  into  a  strong  brine  and  let  them 
soak  several  hours,  after  which  rinse  them  thoroughly  in 
fresh  water,  turn  them,  lay  them  on  a  smooth  board  and 
scrape  them  clean  with  the  back  of  a  knife.  Rinse  and  soak 
in  salt  water  again,  then  give  them  another  scraping  and 
wash  again,  and  do  not  rest  satisfied  until  you  are  positive 
they  are  perfectly  clean.  After  they  have  been  thus  treated, 
put  them  in  salt  water,  changing  water  frequently,  until  you 
are  ready  to  use  the  casings.  I  think  that  sausages  packed 
into  these  casings  with  a  sausage  stuffer  are  much  better  than 
sausages  packed  in  muslin  bags. — [E.  S.,  111. 


Scrapple  I 

Cook  until  tender,  hogs'  livers,  hearts,  and  scraps  of  lean 
meat.  Salt  to  taste,  and  when  done,  remove  the  meat,  boil 
the  liquid  a  little  longer,  and  then  thicken  with  cornmeal 
until  it  is  a  thin  mush.  Let  this  cook  well,  and  then  add  the 
meat,  minced  fine,  and  salt,  pepper  and  sage  to  taste.  Pour 
into  pans  to  cool,  and  when  wanted,  slice  and  fry  until  brown 
on  both  sides. — [Mrs.  F.  L.,  Iowa. 

Scrapple  BE 

Clean  and  cut  up  one  hog's  head  and  remove  all  skin  and 
larger  bones.  Let  soak  in  salt  water  over  night,  and  next 
morning  wash  again  and  put  over  the  fire  in  cold  water  enough 
to  cover.  Cook  slowly  until  the  bones  separate  from  the  meat, 
then  drain,  pick  out  all  the  bones  and  hard  gristle,  and  chop 
or  grind  the  meat  fine.  Strain  the  liquor  and  return  it  with 
the  ground  meat  to  the  kettle,  season  with  salt  and  pepper 
to  taste,  and  when  it  begins  to  boil,  stir  in,  slowly,  enough 
cornmeal  to  thicken,  adding  some  white  flour  to  make  it 
hold  together.  Stir  constantly  until  done,  then  spread  out  in 
pans,  and  when  cold  cut  in  slices  and  fry  brown  on  both  sides. 
By  running  melted  lard  over  it,  it  can  be  kept  a  long  while. 
^— [Mrs.  F.  G.  F..  O. 

Mince  Meat,  Canned 

I  always  make  mince  meat  during  the  butchering  season. 
To  8  lbs  meat,  (either  pork  or  beef,  or  both  mixed)  boiled  and 
chopped  fine,  add  6  lbs  cleaned  currants,  6  lbs  seedless  raisins, 
4  lbs  suet,  2  lbs  citron,  20  lbs  raw  apples,  all  chopped  fine, 
12    lbs   sugar,    2    gals   boiled   cider,    12   tablesp   cinnamon.    8 


THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK        255 


tablesp  mace  and  4  tablesp  each  of  allspice,  salt  and  grated 
nutmeg.  Put  the  cider  in  a  large  kettle,  let  it  come  to  a  boil, 
and  then  put  in  the  other  ingredients,  well  mixed  together 
and  boil  1  hour,  stirring  frequently.  Can  while  hot,  in  air- 
tight jars,  with  a  layer  of  melted  lard  or  suet  on  top.  If  all 
the  usual  canning  precautions  were  observed,  mince  meat 
canned  in  this  way  will  keep  indefinitely. — [Mrs.  M.  M.,  Kan. 

Calf's  Foot  Broth  and  Jelly 

Clean  and  scald  the  feet,  cut  up,  cover  with  water,  and  boil 
until  the  liquid  is  reduced  to  one-quarter.  Season  to  taste, 
thicken  with  1  beaten  egg,  and  serve  plain,  or  with  a  few 
homemade  noodles  boiled  in  it.  For  jelly,  boil  the  liquid 
down  to  3  pts  salt,  then  strain  and  let  get  cool,  after  which 
remove  the  layer  of  fat,  re-heat  the  jelly,  and  add  1  cup 
sugar,  the  juice  of  2  lemons,  the  whites  of  2  eggs,  small  pieces 
of  stick  cinnamon,  and  about  Vz  pt  good  wine,  if  liked,  and 
intended  as  nourishment  for  an  invalid,  although  the  latter 
may  be  omitted.  Strain  through  a  cloth  and  set  away  to  get 
solid.     Serve  cut  in  small  cubes. — [Mrs.  J.  C.  R.,  Ind. 

Pig's  Feet  JeUy 

Clean  and  boil  pig's  feet  till  well  done,  without  salt.  Strain, 
and  to  1  qt  liquor  add  1  pt  sugar,  and  flavor  to  taste.  Boil 
skim  and  pour  in  molds.     Serve  with  cream. 

Pig's  Feet  Cheese 

Clean  feet,  boil  till  bones  fall  out,  remove  bones,  add  a  few 
bay  leaves,  2  slices  lemon,  2  cups  vinegar,  a  few  cloves,  and 
salt  to  taste.  Cook  until  tender,.,  then  pour  into  a  mold  to 
cool.     Serve  in  thin  slices. 

To  Cook  an  Ox  Cheek 

Split  the  head  in  halves,  remove  tongue,  brain  and  eyes  and 
wash  first  in  salt  water  and  afterward  in  2  or  3  fresh  waters. 
When  clean  put  into  a  saucepan  of  cold  water,  add  salt,  and 
let  boil  4  hours.  When  it  has  been  boiling  about  2  hours  add 
potatoes,  onions,  carrots,  turnips,  and  celery,  according  to 
taste.  Cooked  in  this  way  the  liquor  makes  a  nice  soup,  and 
the  meat  taken  from  the  bone  and  served  with  a  little  of  the 
soup  for  gravy,  makes  a  tender  and  savory  dish  for  the  first 
day's  dinner.  The  soup  is  better  served  next  day.  If  there 
should  be  any  small  pieces  of  the  meat  left  from  the  dinner, 
they  may  be  cut  up  with  2  or  3  hard-boiled  eggs,  sprinkled 
with  a  little  salt,  pepper,  and  nutmeg,  put  into  a  mold,,  and 
turned  out  for  breakfast,  luncheon  or  supper. 


Tlddenda 

INCE  this  book  was  first  published,  in 
1907,  various  changes  have  been  made, 
and  new  illustrations  inserted,  for  which 
the  recipes  will  be  found  on  the  following 
pages.  This  is  felt  to  be  a  distinct  im- 
provement on  the  first  edition,  and  one 
which  will  be  generally  appreciated.  Variety  is  certainly 
the  spice  of  life  to  the  good  cook,  and  in  this  book  she  will 
find  no  lack  of  it.  For  each  of  the  recipes  following,  an 
illustration  will  be  found  on  the  page  noted.  A  trial  of 
each  is  recommended. 

Brown  Bread 

[See  illustration  on  Page  8.] 

Mix  1  cup  each  of  rye  meal,  corn  meal,  graham  flour,  and  1 
teasp  salt,  then  stir  in  a  mixture  made  of  2  cups  sour  milk,  1  % 
cups  sweet  milk  (or  water),  %  cup  molasses,  and  %  tablesp 
soda.     Turn  into  well-buttered  molds  and  steam  3i^  hours. 

Bran  Muffins 

Mix  2  cups  bran  and  1  cup  ilour,  with  V2  teasp  salt,  then  cut 
in  1/4  cup  butter,  and  chop  fine  with  a  chopping  knife,  so  that 
it  is  well  mixed  with  the  flour.  Next  pour  in  a  mixture  made  of 
1%  cups  sour  milk,  3  tablesp  molasses  and  1  teasp  6oda.  Bake 
in  muffin  tins  in  hot  oven. 

Gluten  Drop  Biscuits 

Mix  2  cups  gluten  flour  with  1  teasp  baking  powder  and  1 
teasp  salt,  then  cut  in  1  tablesp  butter,  and  stir  in  enough 
water  to  make  a  stiff  batter.  Drop  from  spoon  on  a  buttered 
pan,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

German  Rusks 

[See  illustration  on  Page  9.] 

Mix  together  1  pt  mashed  potatoes,  1  cup  sugar  and  1  cup 
liquid  yeast.     Let  stand  in  a  warm  place  overnight,  and  next 

256 


THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK        257 

morning  add  1  scant  cup  butter,  1  cup  sugar,  2  or  3  well-beaten 
eggs,  and  warm  sifted  flour,  enough  to  make  a  sponge.  Set  in 
a  warm  place  to  rise,  and  when  light  knead,  using  no  more 
flour  than  necessary.  Let  rise  again,  then  shape  into  small 
buns,  cut  a  cross  on  tops,  put  in  well-greased  pans,  let  rise  till 
light,  then  brush  the  tops  with  sweet  cream,  sprinkle  with 
sugar  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  Another  ivay:  After 
the  dough  has  raised  for  the  second  time,  roll  out  %  inch  thick, 
spread  with  cream,  sprinkle  with  sugar,  roll  up  like  jelly  cake, 
pinch  the  edges,  and  cut  off  slices  about  %  inch  thick.  Place 
flat  on  a  well-greased  pan,  let  rise  till  light,  and  bake  in  a 
moderately  quick  oven. 

Prune  Pie 

[See  illustration  on  Page  16.] 

Soak  overnight  1  cup  prunes  in  1%  cups  water.  In  the 
morning  remove  the  stones,  add  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of 
1  lemon,  %  cup  sugar  mixed  with  1  heaping  tablesp  flour  and 
a  pinch  of  salt.  Bake  in  an  undercrust,  and  when  cold  cover 
with  whipped  cream  and  decorate  with  halves  of  prunes,  well 
cooked,  but  not  mushy. 

Checkerboard  Cake 

[See  illustration  on  Page  17.] 

Cream  1  cup  sugar  with  butter  the  size  of  an  egg.  Break 
into  this  2  eggs  and  beat  together  well  with  egg  beater.  Stir 
in  1  cup  sour  milk.  Beat  in  2  cups  flour  sifted  with  a  level 
teasp  soda  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Turn  %  the  batter  into  another 
bowl  and  add  2  tablesp  cocoa  wet  with  2  tablesp  hot  water 
and  1  teasp  vanilla.  To  the  yellow  part  add  a  teasp  of  lemon 
extract.  Use  small  cake  tins,  and  with  yellow  batter,  teasp  at  a 
time,  make  a  ring  a  little  more  than  an  inch  wide.  Inside  this 
ring  lay  a  ring  of  dark  batter,  and  fill  in  center  with  yellow. 
Make  two  of  these  layers,  then  one  other  with  dark  batter  on 
outside  ring  and  in  center  (this  is  to  be  the  middle  layer, 
when  cake  is  put  together).  Ice  with  %  lb  confectioner's 
sugar  wet  with  sweet  cream  and  vanilla  extract.  Bake  cake 
layers  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Indian  Plum  Pudding 

[See  illustration  on  Page  32.] 

Make  a  long,  narrow  bag  of  cotton  flannel  or  strong  muslin. 
Wet  it  in  hot  water,  dip  the  right  side  in  flour,  turn  it  wrong 
side  out,  and  fill  about  %  full  with  the  following  pudding: 
Sprinkle  1%  cups  yellow  corn  meal  into  1%  cups  hot  water, 
add  2  tablesp  flour,  1  cup  brown  sugar,  i/^  cup  suet  (chopped 
fine),  1/^  teasp  soda,  %  teasp  salt,  4  beaten  eggs,  1  cup  seed- 


258  THE   ORANGE  JUDD   COOK  BOOK 


less  raisins,  i/^  cup  currants,  and  scant  ^^  cup  citron,  shaved 
very  fine  and  cut  in  very  sn'-all  pieces.  Boil  5  hours  in  slightly 
salted  boiling  water,  and  boil  b-iskly  all  the  time.  Slip  out  of 
bag,  put  on  a  platter  and  garnish  with  flakes  of  whipped  cream 
sweetened  with  soft  maple  sugar.  When  serving  cut  the  pud- 
ding in  slices  and  serve  each  slice  with  a  generous  helping 
of  cream. 

Sponge  Cakes 

[See  illustration  on  Page  33.] 

Add  %  cup  sugar  to  3  fresh  eggs  and  heat  15  minutes,  then 
sift  in  1  cup  flour  mixed  w-ith  1  teasp  baking  powder  and  a 
little  salt.  Flavor  with  i/^  teasp  lemon  extract.  Mix  gently. 
Put  into  small  molds  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Caramel  Layer  Cake 

[See  illustration  on  Page  48.] 

Cream  4  tablesp  butter  and  1  cup  sugar,  add  'one  at  a  time 
the  yolks  of  2  eggs,  then  gradually  %  cup  milk  flavored  with 
1  teasp  vanilla.  Into  l^^  cups  flour  mix  V2  teasp  salt  and  2 
level  teasp  baking  powder.  Sift  this  into  the  first  mixture, 
and  lastly  fold  in  the  beaten  whites  of  eggs.  Bake  in  3  layers. 
The  filling  is  made  of  2  cups  light  brown  sugar,  2  tablesp 
grated  chocolate  (or  cocoa),  %  cup  milk,  and  a  pinch  of  cream 
of  tartar.  Boil  until  it  "hairs"  when  dropped  from  a  spoon. 
When  cooled  add  1  teasp  each  of  vanilla  and  black  coffee.  Use 
between  layers  and  on  top  and  sides  of  cake. 

Egg  Timbales  with  Peas 

[See  illustration  on  Page  49.] 

Beat  3  eggs,  add  %  cup  milk,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  a 
few  drops  of  onion  juice,  and  2  tablesp  grated  cheese.  Turn 
into  buttered  molds,  set  in  a  pan  of  hot  water,  cover  with 
buttered  paper,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  till  firm.  Turn 
on  circular  pieces  of  buttered  toast  and  garnish  with 
boiled  peas. 

Afternoon  Tea  Cakes 

[See  illustration  on  Page  64.  ] 

Cream  well  together  2  heaping  tablesp  butter  and  1  cup 
granulated  sugar.  Drop  in,  one  at  a  time,  3  unbeaten  eggs, 
beating  very  hard  after  each  is  added.  Mix  together  and  then 
sift  V2  cup,  each,  of  pastry  flour  and  corn  starch,  i^  teasp  salt 
and  1  Vz  tablesp  baking  powder.  Add  this  to  the  first  mixture, 
alternately,  with  i/^   cup  milk.     Lastly  add  a  scant  teasp  pure 


THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK        259 

vanilla  flavoring  and  bake  in  muffin  pans.  When  cool  ice  with 
the  following:  Mix  well  %  cup  butter  with  2  cups  brown  sugar 
and  2  heaping  tablesp  cinnamon.  Put  on  top  of  each  cake. 
Another  decoration  for  the  cake  is  whipped  cream  forced 
through  a  pastry  bag  and  tube  in  fancy  designs,  on  the  top 
and  sides.  Or  chocolate  icing  or  any  other  preferred  Icing 
may  be  used. 

Golden  Muffins 

[See  illustration  on  Page  65.] 

Sift  2  cups  flour  into  a  dish,  add  3  heaping  tablesp  yellow 
corn  meal,  rub  into  this  3  tablesp  butter,  add  a  pinch  of  salt, 
2  tablesp  sugar  and  sift  in  %  teasp  bicarbonate  of  soda  and  Vz 
teasp  cream  of  tartar.  Beat  3  eggs,  add  1  cup  milk,  then  pour 
into  the  dry  ingredients.  Mix  well,  and  half  fill  gem  pans, 
which  have  been  greased  and  heated.  Bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  half  an  hour. 

Christmas  Plum  Pudding 

[See  illustration  on  Page  80.] 

Take  1  pt  bottle  grape  juice  and  soak  therein  1  small  loaf 
of  bread.  Take  1  lb  finely  chopped  suet,  2  lbs  each  of  raisins 
and  currants,  and  1  cup  walnuts,  broken,  not  chopped;  dredge 
over  them  all  enough  flour  to  keep  them  .from  sticking.  Beat  6 
eggs  very  light,  add  1  lb  brown  sugar,  then  the  soaked  bread 
and  fruit,  etc,  also  i^  lb  citron,  cut  very  fine.  Season  with  1 
teasp  salt,  2  teasp  allspice,  1  teasp  cloves,  1  nutmeg,  4  teasp 
cinnamon.  The  mixture  should  be  so  stiff  a  spoon  will  stand 
upright,  but  if  too  stiff  (for  some  flours  thicken  more  than 
others),  a  cup  of  milk  may  be  added.  Put  in  4  greased  bowls, 
cover  and  tie  cloths  over,  so  no  water  can  get  in.  Steam  8 
hours,  adding  water  as  needed.  A  dishpan  may  be  used  and 
will  hold  all  4  puddings,  in  which  case  cover  with  another 
dishpan. 

Grape  Foam 

['See  illustration  on  Page  81.]  I 

Pour  a  large  coffee  cup  14  full  of  grape  juice,  put  in  scant 
Vo  cup  sugar  and  fill  up  with  boiling  water.  Turn  into  a  basin 
and  add  ^2  cup  more  of  water  and  let  come  to  a  boil.  When 
boiling  pour  this  over  1  package  of  some  orange  gelatin  instead 
of  the  pt  of  hot  water  v/hich  the  directions  for  making  call 
for.  Stir  till  clear,  turn  into  a  deep  bowl  and  set  in  an  outer 
dish  half  full  of  cold  water.  When  the  jelly  begins  to  quiver 
as  if  setting,  whip  with  an  egg  beater  till  it  is  light  and 
foamy.    Place  in  outer  dish  of  cold  water  again. 

Put  y2  cup  sugar  and  2  tablesp  hot  water  with  a  tiny  pinch 


2  60        THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK 


of  cream  of  tartar  in  a  basin  on  the  stove.  Cook  till  the  syrup 
drops  from  fork  in  threads.  Have  ready  the  white  of  1  egg 
in  a  soup  plate,  beaten  to  a  dry  foam.  Pour  the  syrup  over 
this  slowly,  beating  constantly.  Beat  till  €ool,  then  fold  into 
the  stiffened  grape  foam.  Drop  a  little  on  top  of  each  sherbet 
glassful. 

Grape  juice  from  either  wild  or  tame  fruit  may  be  prepared 
by  pouring  enough  water  over  the  fruit  to  cover,  after  picking 
from  the  stem,  and  boiling  till  soft.  Pass  through  a  cheese- 
cloth bag,  boil  up  again,  and  if  not  to  use  at  once,  seal  airtight 
in  fruit  cans. 

Plain  Pumpkin  Pie 
[See  illustration  on  Page  96.] 

Pare  a  good  pumpkin  or  squash  and  cut  into  strips,  and 
steam  in  a  colander  over  a  kettle  of  boiling  water.  When  per- 
fectly tender,  pass  through  a  coarse  sieve.  To  each  pt  pump- 
kin add  1  cup  sugar,  3  well-beaten  eggs,  1  pt  rich  milk,  and 

1  teasp  each  of  cinnamon  and  ginger,  and  ^  teasp  nutmeg. 
The  spices  can  be  omitted  if  liked.  Mix  well  and  bake  in  deep 
pie  tins  lined  with  thin  pastry,  until  a  golden  brown. 

Cream  Pumpkin  Pie 

[See  illustration  on  Page  97.] 

To  1  pt  pumipkin  add  1  cup  sugar,  1  cup  cream  or  rich  milk, 

2  well-beaten  eggs,  2  tablesp  melted  butter  (if  cream  is  not 
used),  1  teasp  each  of  cinnamon  and  ginger,  and  %  teasp  salt. 
Bake  in  deep  pastry  lined  tins.  Just  before  serving  (the  pie 
should  be  cold  before  serving),  cover  the  top  with  whipped 
cream  flavored  with  a  little  vanilla.  Very  pretty  if  a  few 
candied  cherries  are  placed  over  the  top. 

Longfellow  Cake 

[See  illustration  on  Page  112.] 

This  cake  is  really  a  white  fruit  cake,  and  to  make  it  you 
will  need  1  cup  butter,  2  cups  sugar,  1  cup  milk,  3  cups  flour 
and  2  teasp  baking  powder,  1  cup  seeded  raisins,  1  cup  thinly- 
sliced  citron,  the  whites  of  4  eggs,  and  %  cup  corn  starch. 
Use  1  teasp  each  of  lemon  and  vanilla  for  flavoring.  Fold  in 
the  well-beaten  whites  of  the  eggs  last.  Bake  slowly  in  a 
moderate  oven.    Cover  with  a  hoiled  frosting. 

Doughnuts  with  Jelly 

[See  illustration  on  Page  113.] 

To  2  eggs  beaten  together,  add  2  tablesp  lard,  not  melted, 
1  coffee  cup  granulated  sugar,  %  pt  milk,  enough  flour  to  make 


THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK        261 

soft  dough,  1  heaping  teasp  baking  powder  sifted  in  flour. 
Roll  out  and  cut  into  shape,  fry  in  boiling  lard.  When  cold 
dust  with  powdered  sugar  and  add  a  bit  of  pulverized  cinna- 
mon, and  place  a  teasp  of  jelly  in  center  of  each  doughnut. 

Potato  Rolls 

[See  illustration  on  Page  128.] 

Pare  and  boil  until  soft  4  good-sized  potatoes,  then  mash 
them  smooth  and  add  1  heaping  tablesp  butter,  1  teasp  salt, 
1  or  2  well-beaten  eggs,  1  pt  sweet  milk,  lukewarm,  and  1 
scant  pt  light  bread  sponge,  with  enough  flour  to  make  a 
dough  that  can  be  kneaded.  Set  in  a  warm  place  to  rise,  and 
when  light  shape  into  twists.  Let  rise  again,  and  when  very 
light  bake  15  or  20  minutes  in  a  moderately  hot  oven. 

Crescent  Buns 

[See  illustration  on  Page  129.] 

Mix  together  '%,.  cup  lively  yeast,  1  cup  sweet  milk,  S'Calded 
and  cooled  to  lukewarm,  V2  teasp  salt,  and  2  cups  warm  flour. 
Cover  and  set  in  warm  place  to  rise,  and  when  very  light 
work  in  i/^  cup  sugar  and  2  tablesp  butter;  then  knead  well 
about  10  minutes,  using  no  more  flour  than  necessary.  Shape 
into  crescent  forms,  place  on  buttered  tins,  and  set  in  a  warm 
place  to  rise.  When  very  light  bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven. 
The  tops  of  the  buns  may  be  brushed  over  with  the  slightly 
beaten  white  of  an  egg,  sweetened,  about  15  or  20  minutes, 
before  removing  from  the  oven,  or  sprinkled  with  moist  sugar 
just  after  removing  from  the  oven. 

Sweet  Cider  Jelly 

[See  illustration  on  Page  144.] 

This  is  a  dessert  which  should  be  prepared  S'ome  hours 
before  serving.  To  make  it  dissolve  2%  heaping  tablesp  of 
clear  calf's  foot  gelatin  in  V2  cup  boiling  water.  To  this  add 
4  cups  sweet  cider,  the  strained  juice  of  half  a  lemon  and 
1  cup  sugar.  Stir  and  when  cool  pour  into  a  mold  and  put 
in  a  cool  place  until  firm.  Turn  out  and  fill  the  center  with 
whipped  cream,  sweetened  and  flavored  with  nutmeg. 

Jellied  Chicken 

[See  illustration  on  Page  145.] 

Place  some  small  pieces  of  chicken  in  a  saucepan  half  filled 
with  boiling  water  and  cook  until  tender.  Remove  the  chicken 
and  when  cool  separate  the  meat  from  the  bones  and  the  skin. 
To  the  liquor  in  which  the   chicken  has  been  cooked,  add   1 


262        THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK 


finely  chopped  onion,  a  bay  leaf,  %  teasp  whole,  white  peppers. 
1  blade  of  mace,  1  teasp  salt,  Vz  teasp  celery  seed  and  the 
chicken  bones  and  skin.  Simmer  until  reduced  to  1  pt,  then 
add  1  heaping  tablesp  clear,  calf's  foot  gelatin,  dissolve  and 
strain.  Arrange  a  layer  of  the  chicken,  which  has  been  pulled 
into  small  pieces,  in  a  wet  mold,  add  a  few  slices  of  hard- 
boiled  egg,  on  top  of  this  a  scattered  layer  of  stoned  sliced 
olives  and  chopped  parsley,  then  more  chicken,  and  so  on 
until  all  the  chicken  is  used.  Then  fill  the  mold  with  the 
gelatin  stock,  and  place  in  ice  box  until  needed.  To  serve, 
turn  out  on  a  platter  and  garnish  with  lettuce  and  sliced 
cucumbers. 

Grape  Nectar 

[See  illustration  on  Page  160.] 

To  1  pt  grape  juice  add  strained  juice  of  2  lemons  and  1 
orange,  1  cup  sugar,  and  1  qt  cold  water.     Serve  ice  cold. 

Grandmother's  Strawberry  Pie 

[See  illustration  on  Page  161.] 

Make  a  good  short  dough,  a  little  "shorter"  than  biscuit 
dough,  and  as  soft  as  it  is  possible  to  handle  it.  Press  out  to 
about  y2  inch  thick,  put  in  a  deep  square  pie  or  cake  pan, 
allowing  the  edge  to  come  up  good  and  high.  Crowd  in  a  lot 
of  choice,  ripe  strawberries,  sprinkle  (plentifully  with  sugar 
and  dot  lightly  with  butter.  Then  put  on  a  thinner  upper 
crust,  well  pricked,  and  pinch  the  edges  together.  Bake,  and 
when  done  heap  on  whipped  and  sweetened  cream,  and  dot 
with  strawberries. 

Raisin  Sponge  Roll 

[See  illustration  on  Page  176.] 

To  4  eggs  add  scant  %  cup  sugar,  1  cup  flour,  i/4  teasp 
baking  soda,  V2  teasp  cream  of  tartar  and  a  pinch  of  salt. 
i  Cream  and  beat  the  yolks  with  the  sugar,  add  flour,  sifted  with 
'salt,  soda  and  cream  tartar,  alternately  with  the  whites  of  the 
'eggs,  which  have  been  beaten  to  a  dry  foam.  Flavor,  and  bake 
in  a  long,  thin  sheet.  The  pan  should  be  greased  and  dusted  with 
flour.  While  baking  in  a  moderate  oven  prepare  the  following 
filling:  Run  half  a  package  of  cleaned  and  seeded  raisins 
through  the  food  chopper,  add  1  cup  water,  and  stew  5  minutes. 
Add  Vz  cup  sugar  mixed  with  1  tablesp  corn  starch  and  a  little 
water.  Cook  10  minutes.  While  the  cake  is  still  hot,  loosen 
edges  and  turn  from  pan  onto  a  folded  cloth.  Spread  evenly 
with  mixture  and  roll  carefully.  Wrap  cloth  tightly  about  the 
roll  and  let  stand  till  cool  before  slicing. 


THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK        263 

English  Scones 

[See  illustration  on  Page  177.] 

Rub  2  heaping  teasp  butter  Into  4  cups  flour,  add  1  tablesp 
of  sugar,  l^  teasp  salt,  1  teasp  baking  soda  and  2  teasp  cream 
of  tartar.  Beat  up  1  egg,  put  half  of  it  into  a  cup,  then  with 
%  of  it  and  some  sweet  milk  make  the  dry  ingredients  into  a 
soft  dough.  Knead  it  a  little  on  a  floured  baking  board,  divide 
it  into  5  pieces,  roll  them  out,  not  too  thinly,  and  cut  each 
of  them  into  4  small  cakes.  Lay  them  oh  a  greased  baking 
tin,  brush  them  over  with  the  remaining  half  of  egg,  and  bake 
them  in  a  hot  oven  for  10  minutes.  A  few  sultana  raisins  may 
be  added.     The  dough  should  always  be  lightly  handled. 

Colonial  Cherry  Punch 

[See  illustration  on  Page  192.] 

Place  a  piece  of  ice  in  the  bottom  of  each  glass,  add  2  tablesp 
canned  cherries,  2  tablesp  orange  juice,  2  peach  halves  (or 
any  other  fruit  that  will  combine  flavors  nicely),  another 
tablesp  cherries,  and  top  off  with  whipped  cream. 

Cheese  Cakes 

[See  illustration  on  Page  193.] 

To  1  cup  flour  add  a  pinch  of  salt,  4  large  tablesp  melted  lard 
and  2  heaping  tablesp  grated  cheese — dry  American  cheese  is 
best.  Mix  thoroughly  with  a  silver  -fork  and  drop  in  a  very 
little  cold  water,  a  few  drops  at  a  time,  till  the  dough  begins 
to  cling  together.  Roll  out  as  for  pie  crust,  cut  into  rounds 
with  biscuit  cutter,  and  place  in  the  center  of  one  round,  which 
has  been  wet  around  the  edges,  the  following:  To  1  small  cup 
grated  cheese  add  egg  yolk,  and  seasoning  of  salt  and  paprika, 
or  sweet  red  pepper.  Heap  in  center  of  round  and  dot  with 
butter,  pressing  the  upper  round  which  has  been  pricked  with 
a  fork,  onto  the  edge  of  lower  round,  with  the  tips  of  fork 
tines.     Bake  till  light  brown. 

"A  Cornish  Pasty  and  Dish  of  Tay" 

[See  illustration  on  Page  208.] 

Should  you  be  driving  in  Cornwall,  England,  late  in  the 
afternoon  and  begin  to  feel  that  it  is  time  for  afternoon  tea, 
you  will  hail  with  gladness  the  thatched  inn,  where  the  driver 
tells  you  that  you  may  get  a- "Cornish  pasty  and  a  cup  of  tay." 

The  pasty  looks  like  an  American  apple  dumpling,  but  it 
doesn't  taste  like  one.  It  is  so  good  that  you  ask  the  quaintly 
garbed    Cornish    woman    for    the    recipe,    and    very    much   to 


264        THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK 

your  surprise  she  consents  to  give  it  to  you,  and  in  turn  it 
is  here  given. 

The  woman  declared  that  there  were  "pasties  and  pasties,'* 
but  that  the  real  Cornish  ones  are  made  after  the  directions 
given,  and  that  they  varied  in  size,  some  being  much  larger 
than  others,  particularly  when  served  with  a  cup  of  "tay" 
to  travelers. 

Cornish  Pasty — Cook  a  good-sized  onion  until  tender,  chop 
it  finely  and  mix  it  with  i/4  lb  steak  cut  into  dice,  and  the  same 
weight  of  boiled  potatoes  also  cut  into  dice,  adding  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste.  Roll  out  a  proportionate  quantity  of  short 
crust  to  about  i/4  inch  thick  and  cut  it  into  rounds  about  the 
size  of  a  silver  dollar.  Put  a  little  of  the  meat,  onion  and 
potatoes  on  each  round  and  sprinkle  again  with  pepper  and 
salt.  Wet  the  edges  of  the  paste,  press  them  lightly  together, 
making,  if  you  can  (it  is  not  difficult),  a  frill  on  the  top, 
and  carefully  insert  a  knife  beneath  the  frill  for  a  vent.  Bake 
from  35  to  40  minutes. 

Lemon  Jelly 

[See  illustration  on  Page  209.] 

Soak  2  tablesp  granulated  gelatin  in  %  cup  cold  water  %i 
hour,  then  add  2^^  cups  boiling  water,  1  cup  sugar,  and  %  cup 
strained  lemon  juice.  Pour  in  a  wet  mold  and  set  away  to 
chill.     Serve  with  sliced  oranges  and  bananas. 

Apple  Kaisin  Cake 

[See  illustration  on  Page  224.] 

Mix  1  small  cup  bread  sponge,  %  cup  warm  water,  ^^  teasp 
salt,  3  tablesp  each  sugar  and  lard,  1  beaten  egg  and  1  cup 
raisins.  Stir  in  iy2  cups  flour,  let  rise  in  a  warm  place  and 
beat  down.  Turn  into  a  deep  pie  pan.  Pare,  core  and  quarter 
3  apples,  halve  the  quarters  and  press  on  the  cake,  round  side 
up.  Sprinkle  over  scant  ^>  cup  sugar  mixed  with  1  teasp 
cinnamon  and  a  dash  of  nutmeg.  Dot  with  butter.  Let  rise 
1  hour  and  bake  slowly  in  a  moderate  oven.  Take  from  the 
oven  and  sprinkle  with  sugar. 

Beet  and  Potato  Salad 

[See  illustration  on  Page  225.] 

Boil  beets  as  usual,  slip  off  the  skins,  and  cut  in  rather 
thick  slices,  then,  while  still  warm,  put  them  in  a  vinegar 
bath  slightly  salted  and  sweetened.  Leave  them  in  the  vine- 
gar a  few  hours,  or  until  the  beets  have  become  pleasantly  acid. 
Prepare  mashed  potatoes,  using  plenty  butter  and  just  enougli 


THE  ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK        265 

milk,  then  arrange  on  a  platter  with  lettuce  leaves,  alternately, 
slices  of  the  beets  with  layers  of  the  mashed  iwtatoes. 

How  to  Roast  Beef 

[See  illustration  on  Page  240.] 

Wipe  the  beef  clean  and  dry,  put  on  a  rack  in  dripping-pan, 
skin  side  down,  rub  over  with  salt,  and  dredge  meat  and  pan 
with  flour.  Place  in  very  hot  oven,  that  the  surface  may  be 
quickly  seared,  thus  preventing  escape  of  inner  juices.  After 
flour  in  pan  is  browned,  reduce  heat,  and  baste  with  fat  which 
has  tried  out;  if  meat  is  quite  lean,  it  may  be  necessary  to  put 
trimmings  of  fat  in  pan.  Baste  every  10  minutes;  if  this  rule 
is  followed,  meat  will  be  found  more  juicy.  When  meat  is 
about  half  done,  turn  it  over  and  dredge  with  flour,  that  skin 
side  may  be  uppermost  for  final  browning. 

If  there  Is  danger  of  flour  burning  in  pan,  add  a  small  quan- 
tity of  water;  this,  however,  is  not  desirable,  and  seldom  need 
be  done,  if  size  of  pan  is  adapted  to  size  of  roast.  Beef,  to 
be  well  roasted,  should  be  started  in  a  hot  oven  and  heat 
decreased,  so  that  when  carved  the  slices  will  be  red  through- 
out, with  a  crisp  layer  of  golden  brown  fat  on  the  top.  Beef 
roasted  when  temperature  is  so  high  that  surface  is  hardened 
before  heat  can  penetrate  to  the  center,  is  most  unsatisfactory. 


ORANGE  JUDD  COOK  BOOK 

INDEX 


Addenda 


Page 

Beef  How  to  Eoast  265 

Biscuits,  Gluten  Drop 256 

Bread,  Brown   256 

Buns.  Crescent 261 

Cake,   Apple  Raisin    264 

Cake,  Caramel  Layer 258 

Cake,   Checkerboard    257 

Cake.  Longfellow   260 

Cake.  Sponge 258 

Cakes,  Afternoon  Tea 258 

Cakes,   Cheese  263 

Chicken.   Jellied   261 

Doughnuta  with  Jelly 260 

Grape  Foam 259 

Grape  Nectar 262 

Jelly.  Lemon   264 

Jelly,  Sweet  ader  261 


Page 

Muffins,  Bran    256 

Muffins,  Golden    259 

Pasty,  Cornish 263 

Ke.  Grandmother's  Strawberry   262 

Pie,  Cream  Pumpkin    260 

Pie,  Plain  Pumpkin 260 

Pie,  Prime 257 

Pudding.  Christmas  Plum 259 

Pudding,  Indian  Plum 257 

Punch,    Colonial  Cherry   263 

Bolls.  Potato 261 

Busks.  German  256 

Salad,  Beet  and  Potato 264 

Scones.    English    263 

Sponge  Roll,  Raisin   262 

Timbales.  Egg  with  Peas 258 


Beverages 

Beverages 

Cider,   To  Keep   131 

Chocolate    129 

Cocoa  and  Cocoa  Shells   129 

Cofifee   127 

Coffee,   Cereal    , 128 

Coffee,  Homemarle  Cereal 128 

Cordials,   Blackberry  and  Blueberry..  130 

Egg-Mogg    127 

Grape  Juice.    Canned   131 

Grape   Nectar    264 

Koumiss     126 

Lemonade  and   Orangeade   129 

Lemonade,.    Quick    129 

Milk  and  Its  Care   126 

Punch,    Colonial  Cherry 263 

Punch,   Pruit    130 


and  Syrups 

Punch,    Harvest    130 

Siiriib,    Currant,   Raspberry  or  Straw- 
berry       130 

Shrub,  Fruit   130 

Shrub,  Pineapple  130 

Tea    127 

Water.    Drinking    125 

Water.  Toast  132 

Syrups 

Cherry    Syrup 131 

Clove  Syrup  131 

Maple   Syrup,   Imitation  132 

Plain  Syrup  131 

Rose   S.Trup    131 

Silver  Drip  Syrup  132 

Soda  Syrup    132 


Biscuits,  Muffins  and  Dumplings 


Biscuits 

Baking  Powder  Biscuits 153 

Blueberry   Biscuits    155 

Bran  Biscuits    154 

Bread   Biscuits   156 

Breakfast  Biscuits  154 


Breakfast  Cakes  157 

Buns,    Sweet    .    157 

Cream  Tartar  Biscuits 154 

Drop  Biscuits    153 

Egg   Biscuits    154 

Ginger  Biscuits   155 

Gluten  Drop  Biscuits  256 


266 


INDEX 


267 


Page 

Biscuits—  Conti7tued 

Graham   Drop  Biscuits    154 

Light  Biscuits   155 

Madison  Biscuits   156 

Maryland  Biscuits  156 

Mush    Biscuits    156 

Raised  Biscuits    156 

Scotch    Biscuits    155 

Soda  Biscuits   153 

Sour  Milk  Biscuits 154 

Squash   Biscuits  157 

Sweet   Biscuits    155 

Sweet  Potato  Biscuits   155 

Dumplings 

Baked    Dumplings    162 

Boiled  Dumplings    162 

Bread  Dumplings,    German   164 

Bread  Dumplings,  Light  163 

Broth  Dumplings   163 

Drop  Dumplings  162,  163 

Egg   Dumplings    164 

Liver  Dumplings    163 

Meat  Dumplings    163 

Potato  Dumplings   164 

Muffins 

Bran    Muffins     256,  159 

Buckwheat  Cakes,  Buttermilk  162 


Page 

Buckwheat  Cakes,  Teast 161 

Buttermilk  Muffins  158 

Corn   Dodgers   160 

Corn   Pone   160 

Com  Muffins,  Southern  159 

Gems,  Buttermilk    160 

Gems,  Date    160 

Gems,  Ginger    159 

Gems,  Graham    160 

Gems.  Oatmeal    159 

Gems.  Rye    159 

Golden  Muffins  259 

Graham  Muffins 157 

Graham  Muffins   (No  eggs)   157 

Honey  Muffins 159 

Johnnycake  161 

Muffins     .    157 

Oatmeal  Muffins 158 

Pop-Overs   160 

Pop-Overs,  Graham 161 

Puffs.  Cornstarch 161 

Puffs.   Graham 161 

Rice  Muffins    159 

Rye  Muffins  157 

Scones,  English    263 

Sconea,  Oatmeal  161 

Scones,  Pciato    161 

Sour  Cream  Muffins 158 

Waffles,    Buttermilk   162 

Waffles,    Plain    162 

Whole  Wheat  Muffins   157 

Yeast  Muffins    158 


Bread,  Rolls  and  Buns 


Bread 


Bread,  To  Bake 

168 

Baking  Powder.   Homemade   ... 

171 

176 

177 

Bread    Sticks  or  Braids    

180 

Brown  Bread  

256 

Brown  Bread.  Baked   

176 

Brown  Bread,   Steamed    

.176,  177 

Corn  Bread.  Cheeterfleld   

179 

Com  Bread    Light       

178 

Corn  Bread.  New  England 

178 

Corn   Bread,   'No  eggs)    

178 

Corn   Bread.  Richmond 

178 

Cornmeai   Egg  Bread   

178 

177 

Entire  Wheat   Bread   

174 

Flour.    About   the    

166 

German    Bread 

179 

Good  Bread   Without   Kneading. 

167 

Graham  Bread.  Baked 

174 

Graham  Bread.  Raised    

.174,  175 

Graham  Bread.  Steamed 

174 

Hominy   Bread    

177 

Ingredients  of  Bread    

164 

Kneading  Bread  Dough   

167 

Mush    Bread    

177 

Oat  Meal  Bread   

.175.  176 

Pumpkin  Bread    

177 

175 

:::::  \i\ 

179 

Swedish  Bread   

179 

White  Bread   171 

Yeast  Bread 171 

Yeast  Cakes,  Buttermilk  170 

Yeast,  Fresh    .    ..      168 

Yeast,  Hop  and  Raw  Potato  169 

Yeast.  Jug    170 

Yeast,  Perpetual   169 

Yeast.  Potato    169 

Yeast.  Raw  Potato    169 

Yeast,  Tanzy    170 

Yeast  Without  Yeast,   To  make 168 


Buns 

Crescent   Buns .'. 261 

Plain  Buns    182 

Sweet  Buns  or  Rusks   182 

Rusks   182 

Rusks.  German  256 


Rolls 


Baking  Powder   180 

Bran    Rolls    181 

Buttermilk  Rolls   181 

Cinnamon  Rolls  180 

Cinnamon  Rolls,   Raised  181 

French  Rolls   181 

Graham  Rolls   181 

Potato   Rolls    182.261 

Squash  Rolls  181 

Tea  Rolls,  Raised  180 


268 


INDEX 


Butchering-Time  Recipes 


Meat— To  Keep 


Page 


Beefsteak    248 

Canning     240 

To   Dry  Sugar  Cure   243 

Frozen  Meat    239 

To  Keep  Without  Smoking  242 

Smoked  Meat,  Keeping  241 

Beef 

How  to  Cut  Up 233 

When  Killed    239 

Beefsteak,  To  Keep  248 

Pork 

Dry   Cured    243 

Entrails,  Cleaning  and  Separating  ...  238 

To  Pack  in  Salt   239 

Paunch,  Smoked  Pig 248 

Pork  Making  235 

Preparation    237 

Roast  Pork,  To  Keep  in  Lard  247 

Salt   Cured  Pork    243 


Curing,  Smoking 

Barrel  for  Pickling  or  Caring 243 

Barrel   Smoker    242 

To  Dry  Sugar  Cure  Meat 243 

Dry   Cured   Pork    243 

Hams,   Treating  After  Smoking 242 

Keeping    Smoked    Meat   241 

Meat  Without  Smoking.  To  Keep 242 

Salt    Cured    Pork    243 

Smoked  Barrel  for  Bacon  and  Hams,  242 

Smoking  in   a  Box  241 

Smoking    Meat    240 


Pickling,  Canning 


Page 


Barrel   for   Pickling   or  Curing 243 

Meat,  Poultry  and  Sausages,  Canning,  240 

Mince  Meat,  Canned    254 

Pickle  for  Pork  Sausage 246 

Pig's  Feet,  Pickled  246 

Souse    246 

Suet,    Canned    249 

Tongue,    Pickled    247 

Tripe  and  Beef  Tongue,  Pickled  24T 


Sausage 


Bologna     253 

Canning  Sausage  240 

Casings,   Sausage   25(1 

Casings,   To  Prepare 254 

Filling   Sausage    251 

Kidney,    Heart,  Liver  Sausage   252 

Liver    Sausage    252 

Mixed  Sausage   252 


Miscellaneous 

Bladders,   Uses  for   251 

Berf,   Ham.  Tongue,  Liver.   Potted. . .  250 

Calf's  Foot  Broth  and  Jelly  255 

Hams,  Treating  After  Smoking 242 

Head   Cheese.    Calf's,   Hog's    249 

Hog's  Head  Pudding   250 

Lard  or  Suet,  To  Try  Out  248 

Mince  Meat.  Canned  254 

Ox  Cheek.   To   Cook  255 

Pig's  Feet   Cheese  255 

Pig's   Feet   Jelly    255 

Scrapple    254 


Cakes,  Fillings  and  Frostings 


Angel    Food   Cake   100 

Apple  Pound  Cake  104 

Apple  Raisin  Cake    264 

Apple  Sauce  Cake  (No  eggs)    107 

Baking  Cake,  General  Directions 98 

Blackberry    Cakei    Ill 

Blackberry  Jam   Cake    102 

Brown  Loaf   Cake    102 

ButtermUk  Cake   (No  eggs)    105 

Caramel   Layer   Cake   258 

Cheap  Cake  (No  eggs,  no  butter)   . . ,  nr7 

Checkerboard  Cake   257 

Children's   Cake   112 

Chocolate    Cake    103 

Chocolate  Loaf  Cake  (No  eggs)   105 

Cocoa  Cake 113 

Cocoanut  Loaf  Cafe   110 

Coffee   Cake,    Raised   115 

Cornstarch    Cake    112 

Cream  Cake    (No  butter)    108 

Cream  Caramel  Cake  (No  butter) 107 

Dark  Cake   (No  eggs)    105 

Date  Cake   113 

Date  Cake,  French    (No  butter)    108 

Devil's  Food  Cake   114 


Dried  Apple  Cake   101 

Dutch    Cake    115 

Eggless    Cake    104 

Emergency  Cake   (No  butter)    107 

English  Walnut  Cake  (No  eggs,  butter)  107 

Farmer's    Cake 100 

Feather   Cake    113 

Fig  Pound  Cake   101 

Fillings   and   Frostings    116 

Fruit  and  Nut  Cake,  Layer  103 

Fruit  Cake,  Buttermilk    104 

Fruit  Cake,  Fresh    112 

Fruit  Cake.  Inexpensi'^e     109 

Fruit    Cake,   (No    eggs)    106 

Fruit  Cake,  Poor   Man's   104 

Fruit  Cake,  Steamed     103 

Fruit  Cake.  White     104 

Gingerbread.  Chocolate  (No  eggs)    ...  106 

Gingerbread.  Cocoanut    110 

Gingerbread.  Hard     109 

Gingerbread.  Moiasses   (No  butter)...  107 

Gingerbread,  Soft     109 

Gingerbread  or  Loaf  Cake   109 

Gold  Cake— Silver  Cake Ill 

Graham  Cake     103 


INDEX 


269 


Cakes,  Fillings  and  Frostings 


*  Continued 


Page 

Graham  Cake   (Na  eggs)    105 

Hot  Water  Cake  (No  eggs)    105 

Huckleberry  Cake Ill 

Indiaa  Cake    104 

Jelly  Cake,  Roll   (No  butler)    109 

Loaf  Cake  or  Gingerbread 109 

Longfellow    Cake    260 

Marble  Cake,  Trl-colored   113 

Mocha    Cake    112 

New  England  Cake  (No  eggs) 105 

Nut  Layer  Cake  103 

Plain  or  Nut  Cake  (No  eggs)   106 

Pork  Cake  ( No  eggs)   106 

Pound  Cake,  Apple     104 

Pound  Cake.  Fig      101 

Pound  Cake,  Old-Fashloned     115 

Pound  Cake,  Rich    114 

Prune  Cake   102 

Raisin    Cake,    Plain    113 

Raspberry  Jam  Cake 104 


Page 

Ribbon  Cake  112 

Ribbon   Layer  Cake   114 

Roll    Cake   with    Buttermilk 102 

Silver  Cake— Gold  Cake in 

Sour  Milk  Cake  (No  eggs)   106 

Spice  Cake   114 

Spice  Cake,  Marble   114 

Spice  Cake.  Potato    110 

Sponge  Cako,  Rolled  (No  butter)    ...  108 

Sponge  Cake    258 

Sponge  Cake.    Fairy   Ill 

Sponge  Cake.   Lemon    110 

Sponge  Cake.  Quick    110 

Sponge  Cake.  Velvet    110 

Sponge  Caked.  Rolled   (No  butter)    ..  108 

SpoiigQ   Roll,    Raisin    262 

Strawberry   Jam    Cake    102 

Sunshine  Cake  I  (No  butter)   108 

Three  in  One  Cake 101 

Walnut  Cake.    Cheap   112 

Wedding  Cake    100 


Canning  and  Preserving 


Jars    for    Canning    184 

Heatiiis  and  Filling  Jars 184 

Methods   of   Canning    183 

Salicylic  Acid,   About   185 


Fruit,  to  Can 

Apples    186 

Blueberries.    Canned    193 

Cherries.   Canned   185 

Cherries  Whole,   To  Can  Cold  185 

Currants.    Canned    187 

Currants,    Tr    Can    Cold 188 

Gooseberries — Green   or  Wild,  Canned,  193 

Gooseberries.   To  Can  Without   Sugar,  193 

Grapes,    Canned    188 

Grapes.  To  Can  Without  Sugar 188 

Huckleberries,   Canned    192 

Peaches,  To  Can   Whole   190 

Peaches,  To  Can  Without  Boiling   ...  191 

Pears,    Canned    183 

Pineapple.    Canned    187 

Plums,    Canned    187 

Raspberries,    Canned    194 

Raspberries,  To  Can  Without  Cooking,  194 

Strawberries    and    Rhubarb.     Canned,  196 

Strawberries,    Canned    194 

Strawberries,  To  Can  Without  Cooking,  195 


Vegetables,  to  Can 

Beets,  To  Can 198 

Corn  and  Tomatoes,  Canned    199 

Corn  Salad,   Canned    199 

Com,   Sweet.   Canned   198 

Cucumbers.  To  Can  Sweet  197 


Dandelion  or  Other  Greens,   To  Can.  200 

Peas.    To  Can   197 

Peppers    Sweet  Red.  Canned   196 

Pumpkins  or   Squash,   To  Can    196 

Rhubarb,    Baked.    Canned    195 

Rhubarb.  To  Can  in  Cold  Water  105 

Rhubarb  and  Strawberries,  Canned  . .   196 

String  Beans,  To  Can    197 

String  Beans.  To  Can  With  Bacon...   197 
Tomatoes,  Ripe,  To  Can  199 


Fruits  to  Preserve 

Apples,     Candied     186 

Apples,    Pickled    187 

Blackberries.  Spiced    193 

Cantaloupe   Preserves    192 

Cherry  Preserves    186 

Cherry   Preserves,   Sour   186 

Citron  Melons.   Preserved    191 

Crabapple   Preserves    187 

Crabapple,    Spiced    187 

Cucumber  Preserves    197 

Currants,    Spiced    188 

Elderberries,  Preserved 192 

Grape  Preserves   189 

Grapes,  Spiced 189 

Peach  Preserves    191 

Peaches,  Sweet  Pickled    191 

Pears,  Chipped  or  Spiced 190 

Plums,    Preserved    190 

Plums.    Spiced    190 

Quince   Preserves    188 

Raspberry    Preserves    194 

Rhubarb  and   Gooseberry  Preserves...  193 

Strawberry   Preserves    195 

Tomato  Preserves,    Green    199 

Tomatoes,   Ripe,    Spiced   200 

Watermelon  Preserves    192 


270 


INDEX 


Catsups  and  Relishes 


Catsups 

Page 

Apple  Catsup  228 

Cherry  Catsup  228 

Crabapple   Catsup   228 

Cucumber  Catsup,  Cold 226 

Currant  Catsup  228 

Farmer's   Catsup    227 

Gooseberry  Catsup 229 

Grape  Catsup.   Green    228 

Grape  Catsup,   Ripe   228 

Peach    Catsup    227 

Plum    Catsup    227 

Quick  Ca(sup  from  Canned  Tomatoes,  227 

Tomato  and   Peach   Catsup    227 

Tomato  Catsup.  Cold    226 

Tomato  Cat-sup,  Green    226 

Tomato  Catsup.  Ripe    225 

Walnut  Catsup  229 


Relishes 


Page 

Chili  Sauce,   Cooked 229 

Chili  Sauce,  New    England    230 

Chili  Sauce.  Red    229 

Chili  Sauce,  Uncooked     22» 

Chutney,    Indian    232 

Relish,   Red  Cabbage  232 

Relish,   Wild   Grape   232 

Sauce.  Bordeaux    230 

Sauce.  Celery    230 

Sauce,  Chutney     230 

Sauce,  Horseradish    230 

Sauce.   Pickled   Corn    230 

Sauce,  Pickled  Pumpkin    231 

Sauce.  Worccstersii'.re     231 

Tomato  Soy.    Green   231 

Tomato   Soy,  Ripe    231 


Cookies,  Crackers,  Small  Cakes 


Cookies 

Anise     Cookies     146 

Brown    Cookies    143 

Butter  Cookies    146 

Buttermilk  Cookies   (No  eggs)    146 

Chocolate  Cookies    143 

Christmas  Cookies    143 

Cocoanut  Cookies  146 

Eggless    Cookies    145 

Ginger  Cookies,  Coffee    144 

Ginger  Cookies,  Maple   Sugar    144 

Ginger  Cookies  (No    eggs)    144 

Ginger  Cookies.  Soft    144 

Ginger   Snaps    148 

Ginger  Snaps    (No  shortening)    148 

Ginger  Snaps   With    Buttermilk    148 

Graham  Cookies  143 

Jelly  Jumbles    147 

Maple  Syrup    Cooluea    145 

Marbled    Cookies    145 

Molasses  Cookies   145 

Molasses  Bui termilk  Cookies   144 

Oatmeal  Cookies    147 

Oatmeal  Cookies,  Jolly     147 

Oatmeal  Cookies,  Macaroons    147 

Oatmeal  Cookies.  Nut    147 

Peanut  Cookies   146 

Popcorn    Cookies    145 

Rocks,    Date    148 

Rocks,    Russian    148 

Sorghum  Cookies    145 


Walnut  Cookies 146 

Wheat  Cookies    (No  eggs)    146 

Crackers 

Buttermilk      151 

Clieese  Crackers    152 

Graham  Crackers   151 

Graham  Wafers    152 

Ice  Cream  Wafers   152 

Lemon    Crackers    15 1 

Oatmeal  Crackers,  Cheap    151 

Sugar  Crackers   151 

Vanilla  Wafeis   152 

Whole-Wheat   Crackers    152 

Small  Cakes 

Afternoon    Tea     2.j8 

Cheese    263 

Cream    Puffs    150 

Cup    Ca  kes.    Caraway   150 

Drops,  Cocoanut     149 

Drops,  Coffee     148 

Drops.  Ginger    14!» 

Drops,  Oatmeal  149 

Drops,  Sponge     14r» 

Lady  Fingers 150 

Oatmeal   Date   Cakes    150 

Sour  Cream  Cakes    (No  butter)   149 

Spice  Squares   150 

Strawberry  Fingers   150 


Doughnuts,  Griddlecakes,  Fritters 


Doughnuts 


Cocoa     135 

Doughnuts  With  Jelly   260 


Farmer's  Doughnuts    134 

Molasses  Doughnuts  (No  eggs)   134 

Raised  Doughnuts 133,  134 


INDEX 


271 


Criddlecakes 

Page 

Buckwheat.  Raised  138 

Corn  Griddlecakes.    Sweet    139 

Commeal  Griddlecakes 139 

Cornmeal  Griddlecakes.   Raised    139 

Green    Peas    Griddlecakes 139 

Griddlecakes    (No  eggs)    139 

Hominy   Griddlecakes   139 

Bice  Griddlecakes   139 

Fritters 

Apple    141 

Batter  Fritters,    Plain   140 

Bread  Fritters,   Plain 140 

Bread  Fritters,   Raised    140 

Corn   Fritters.    Fried    140 

Cornmeal  Fritters    141 

Oatmeal    Fritters    141 

Oyster  Fritters    142 

Oyster  Fritters,    Mock    141 

Parsnip  Fritters   142 

Potato  Fritters    142 

Rhubarb  or  Green  Apple  Fritters  ....  141 

Salmon   Fritters    142 

Sour  Milk  Fritters   141 

Tomato  Fritters,  Green   142 


Pancakes 

Page 

Banana      138 

Bread  Pancakes   136 

Bread  Pancakes  (No  eggs)   136 

Buttermilk   Pancakes    137 

Cornmeal  Pancakes   136 

Economical  Pancakes    136 

Potato  and   Onion   Pancakes   137 

Potato  Pancakes.    Boiled    137 

Potato   Pancakes,  Raw    137 

Rye  Pancakes    137 

Tomato    Pancakes    138 

Whole  Wheat  Pancakes    137 


Miscellaneous 

Batter  Cakes 142 

Cornmeal    Trifles    1-^6 

Fried  Cakes  (N'o  eggs)    135 

Fried  Cakes.  Potato   13.'5 

Pone,   North  Carolina  Com  140 

Puff   Balls    135 

Puffs,    Potato    136 

Twisters.    Old-Fashioued    135 


Fish,  Shellfish  and  Crustaceans 


General  Directions 

Baking    Fish     16 

Cooking    Fish    12 

To  Can  Fish    11 

To  Freshen  Salted  Fish   13 

To  Itemove  Skin  and   Bones    12 

To  Salt  and  Smoke  Fish 12 


Fish,  Shellfish 

Chowder  18 

Clam  Chowder 22 

Clam  Pie 21 

Clam  Soup   21 

Codfish,  Broiled    14 

Codfish,  Creamed   14 

Codfish  Fritters  14 

Codfish    Loaf    14 

Codfish  Soup    14 

Codfish  Ways     13 

Codfish  With   Vegetables   14 

Oabs  and    Lobsters    22 

Halibut,  Baked  or  Steamed 16 


Herring,  Baked  Pickled   15 

Herring,  Fresh  With  Onions    15 

Herring,   Fried    Salt    15 

Herring.  Pickled     15 

Mackerel.   Baked    Pickled    15 

Mackerel.  Salt     15 

Oysters  and  Clams I'J 

Oysters,  Baked    20 

Oysters,  Deviled    19 

Oysters.  Fried   and  Fritters   20 

Oysters.     Pickled      1!) 

Oysters,  Scalloped    20 

Oyster  Omelet    21 

Oyster  Pie    20 

Oyster  Stew    20 

Oysters  with  Macaroni 21 

Pickled  Fish    18 

Roe.    Fish    18 

Salmon,  Baked  Fresh   17 

Salmon,  Boiled    Fresh    17 

Salmon,  Fried   Fresli    17 

Salmon,  Loaf  with  Cream  Sauce IS 

Salmon,  Rckled     17 

Salmon.  Scalloped     17 

Shad     16 


Ices,  Ice  Cream  and  Confections 


Ices  and  Ice  Cream 

Frappe.    Pineapple  121 

Freeze  Ices  and  Creams,  How  to 119 

Ice  Cream,  Chocolate      121 

Ice  Cream,  Coffee    121 

Ice  Cream,  Vanilla    121 


Ice.   Lemon  or  Orange 120 

Ices,   Strawberry,  Raspberry,   Currant,  120 

Sherbet.  Coffee    120 

Sherbet,    Grape   121 

Sherbet,    Milk   120 

Sherbet,   Peach  121 


272 


INDEX 


Candies 

Page 

Butter  Scotch  124 

Butter  Taffy,  Plain   124 

Caramels,  Chocolate  or  Nut 124 

Cocoanut  Candy   124 

Colorings  for  Candy    122 

Cteam  Candy   123 


Page 

Foundation    Cream.    Unboiled 122 

Gum  Drops  or  Wafers   123 

Horehound  Taffy   124 

Molassee  Candy,   Plain   123 

Molasses   Candy,   VelTet   123 

Peppermint  Drops   122 

Sugar  Candy   123 


Jellies,  Jams  and  Marmalades 


JeUy 


Apple   202 

Apple  Jelly,  Spiced   202 


Apple  and  Grape  Jelly 


203 


Barberry    Jelly    204 

Blackberry   or  Raspberry  Jelly    205 

Cherry   JeUy    205 

Cranberry   Jelly    204 

Currant  Jelly,  Black     203 

Currant  Jelly.  Red     203 

Elderberry  JeUy    204 

Gooseberry    205 

Grape  Jelly 204 

Grape  Jelly,  Green    204 

Plum  Jelly  205 

Preserving  Kettle  and  Jelly  Bags  ...  202 

Quince  Jelly 203 

Raspberry   or  Blackberry  Jelly   205 

Rhubarb  Jelly  205 

Rules.   JeUy  201 

Stxawberry  Jelly   205 

Tomato  Jelly    206 


Jams 

Apricot  Jam    208 

Blackberry   and   Raspberry   Jam    207 

Cherry    Jam    207 

Currant  Jam,  Cold    207 

Damson  Jam    208 

Gooseberry   Jam,    Baked    208 

Peach    Jam.    Baked    208 

Preparing  Jams 206 

Raspberry   and  Blackberry  Jam   207 

Rhubarb   Jam    207 


Rhubarb  and  Raspberry  Jam  208 

Strawberry   Jam   207 

Tomato   Jam   208 

Wild  Cherry  and  Grape  Jam 207 


Marmalades 

Cherry  Marmalade 209 

Cranberry  and  Quince  Marmalade  ...  210 

Fruit  Marmalade,   Mlied    209 

Muskmelon   Marmalade   209 

Orange   Marmalade   209 

Preparing   Marmalades    206 

Quince  Marmalade    209 

Watermelon   Marmalade    210 


Butter 

Apple    210 

Crabapple  Butter  210 

Peach   Butter    210 

Plum  Butter    211 

Pumpkin  or  Squash  Butter 211 

Tomato  Butter   211 


Affiscellaneous 

Crabapplo    Jumble    211 

Cranberries.    Spiced    211 

Fig  Past«   212 

Quince  Honey  212 


Meat,  Poultry  and  Game 


Beef 

Beefsteak   Roll    27 

Boiled    Beef   with  Dressing    22 

Braised  Beef   24 

Corned    Beef.  To  Cook    24 

Dried  Beef  with  Milk    27 

Loaf.  Meat  (Beef)   29 

Pot  Roast   25 

Pot  Roast,    Sour    26 

Pressed    Beef    24 

Roast    Beet    25 

Roast  Beef,   How  to   265 

Roast  Beef,  Quick  Way  to  25 

Steak,   To  Fry  or  Broil   26 

Steak,  Hamburg     26 

.Steamed  Beef   24 


Pork  and  Ham 

Dutch  Dish  (Ham) 32 

Ham,  Baked    31 

Ham,  Boiled    31 

Ham,  Creamed   Shredded   32 

Ham.  To  Fry   32 

Ham,  Potted    32 

Loaf,   Meat   (Pork)    29 

Loin  of  Pork,  Roast 30 

Mexican   ChiU  Pork   31 

Mock  Birds  (Pork)   30 

Pork  With  Veal   29 

Pot   Roast   (Pork) 25 

Salt  Pork,  Fned     30 

Salt  Perk,  With   Dried  Apples    31 

Salt  Pork,  With  Vegetables    31 

Tenderloin,  Fried  Pork  30 


INDEX 


273 


Page 

Mutton  and  Veal 

Mutton  and  Cora,  Stewed..... 29 

Mutton  With   Cabbage   and  Potatoes,  29 

Vea],  Jellied    SO 

Veal.  Koast  Fillet  of  29 

Veal  With  Pork   29 


Poultry 

Chlcfeen.   Fried   36 

Chicken,  Fricassee     37 

Chicken,  Jellied    261 

Chicken,  Pickled    36 

Chicken,  Pressed   or   Potted    37 

Chicken,  Scolloped     36 

Chicken,  Smothered     36 

Chicken,  Soup  With  Dumplings 37 

Duck,   Boiled   or  RoMted  39 

Fowl,   Steamed    36 

Goose,    Boast    39 

Guinea  Hen,   Fried  38 

Poultry,  To  Pick  and  Clean 35 

Tamales,  Hot  (Chicken)    38 

Turkey,    Koast    38 


Came 

Com,    Baked    40 

Jack  Rabbit,    Baked   39 

"Possum  and  Sweet  'Taters"    41 

Rabbit.  Curried    .., 39 

Rabbit.  Stewed    40 

Venslon  With  Gravy.  Fried  41 


Sauces  for  Meat 

Brown    Sauce    43 

Bi'tter  Sauce.   Drawn    42 


Page 

Celery  Sauce  43 

Chestnut  Sauce  44 

Fish  Sauce   44 

Horseradish  Sauce,  Hot  43 

Mint    Sauce    43 

Mustard,    Made    44 

Mustard   Sauce   44 

Onion   Sauce   43 

Spanish    Sauce   44 

Vinegar   Cream.  Sauce   44 

White   Sauce    4S 


Miscellaneous 

Boiling  and   Roasting  Meat 23 

Crust  for  Meat  Pie 32 

Crust  for  Pot  Pie  33 

Curry  With  Rice,  India 34 

Dressing,  Bread    41 

Bressing,  Oystsr    41 

Goulash,     Hungaria..      27 

Hash,   Baked   34 

Haslet,   Stewed  2» 

Heart,  Baked  28 

Heart,  Deviled     28 

Liver,  Fried    (Sour)    27 

Liver,  Loaf  27 

Liver,  Stewed  27 

Meat  Loaf   (Beef,  Pork  or  Veal)    ....  29 

Paaty,    Cornish    263 

Pie,  Meat    33 

Pie,  Salt   Pork    33 

Ple»  Chicken  or  Meat  34 

Pie,  Mock  Chicken 34 

Pie.  Ham    34 

Pot  Pie.   Veal   33 

Sausage    Fritters 32 

Tripe,  Fried  28 


Pickling — Sweet  and  Sour 


Apples.  Sweet  Pickled  223 

Beet   Pickles    218 

Berries.   Pickled 222 

Cabbage  and  Beet  Pickle  219 

Cabbage,  Pickled  Red    219 

Cabbage,  Pickled  White 219 

Carrot   Sweet  Pickles    223 

Cauliflower  Pickle    219 

Cherries.    Pickled    223 

Chow-Chow,    Old   Virginia    221 

Com  Pickle  or  Relish  220 

Cucumber  Pickles   214,  215 

Cucumber  Pickles.   Sweet 216 

Dill  Pickles   215 

Mixed   Pickle    216 

Mustard    Pickle    220 

Olive  OU  Pickles 217 


Olives.    Pickled     221 

Onions,   Pickled    218 

Peaches,    Sweet    Pickled    222 

Pears,  Sweet   Pickled   222 

Peppers.  Pickled 222 

Peppers,  Stuffed  Pickled    220 

Plum   Pickles,    Sweet    222 

Quince,  Sweet  Plcklea 222 

Relish,  India  221 

Sauerkraut    224 

Sweet  Pickles    216 

Tomato  Pickle,  Green 217 

Tomatoes.   Pickled   Yellow    218 

Tomato  Sweet  Pickle.  Green   223 

To  Salt  Down  Cucumbers    21S 

To  Salt  Down  String  Beans 214 

To  Salt  Down  Whole  Ripe   Tomatoes,  214 


Pies  and  Shortcakes 


Pies 

Apple  Pie  87 

Apple  Custard   Pie    88 

Apple  Tt..-nover     87 


Apricot  Custard  Pie 92 

Banana  Pie   86 

Boiled  Cider  Pie   89 

Buttermilk  Pie   89- 


274 


INDEX 


Page 

Pies — Continued 

Butternut  Pie   91 

Carrot  Pie    90 

Cherry  Pie  86 

Cherry  Pie.  Mock 86 

Chocolate  Pie   88 

Cocoanut   Pie    88 

Cottage  Cheese  Pie  91 

Cranberry  Pie  85 

Cream  Pie   88 

Currant  Pie,  Fresh 87 

Custard  Pie    87 

Custard  Pie,  Apple    88 

Custard  Pie,  Apricot 92 

Date  Pie  88 

Dutch   Pie    89 

Elderberry  Pie    85 

Fig  Pie  91 

Fried  Pies   91 

Lemon  Pie    84 

Lemon  Pie  Mock  84 

Lemon  Pie.  Quick    84 

Lemon  Raisin  Pie   85 

Mince,  Green  Tomato 84 

Mince,    Pork    84 

Mince  Meat   83 

Mince  Rhubarb  Pie    86 

Peach    Pie,  Canned    92 

Peach  Pie,  Evaporated   92 

Pineapple  Pie     85 

Plum    Butter    Pie 85 

Potato  Pie,  Sweet    90 

Prune    Pie    91,  257 

Pumpkin  Pie    90 

Pumpidn  Pie,  Cream    260 

Pumpkin  Pie,  Green 90 

Pumpkin  Pie,  Plain    260 

Raisin  Pie,  Lemon  85 

Easpberry  Pie   92 

Rhubarb  Pie 86 

Rhubarb  Pie,  Mince    86 

Rice  Pie   91 

Squash    Pie    89 


Page 

Strawberry  Pie,    Grandmother'a    262 

Tomato  Pie.   Green   90 

Turnover,  Apple   87 

Pie  Crusts 

Baked    Pie    Crust    83 

Cream  Pie  Crust.  Sour     82 

Cream  Pie  Crust,  Sweet   82 

Egg  Pie  Crust  82 

Flakj'  Pie  Crust  82 

Plain  Pie  Crust   82 

Suet  Pie  Crust  81 

Shortcakes 

Blueberry  Shortcake   94 

Buckwheat    Shortcake    93 

Hucklebury    Shortcake    94 

Peach  Shortcake  94 

Rhubarb  Shortcake    93 

Short<?ake    93 

Strawberry   Shortcake  94 

Strawberry  Sauce  for  Shortcake 95 

Miscellaneous 

Biscuit    with    Berries 96 

Ciieese  Straws  96 

Cobbler,  Strawberry  95 

Cobbler,  Peach  or  Berry  95 

Mince,  Green    Tomato    84 

Mince,  Pork   84 

Mince  Meat   83 

Patties,    Cheese    96 

Patties,    Cocoanut    96 

Puff  Paste,    Rich    82 

Rolls,  Clierry    95 

Rolls,  Rhubarb    96 

Rolls,  Strawberri'    96 

Sauce  for  Shortcalse.  Strawberry   96 


Potatoes,  Vegetables  and  Salads 


Potatoes 

Candied  Sweet   47 

Croquettes,   Sweet  Potato    47 

Escalloped  Potatoes   47 

Loaf,    Potato    46 

Stuffed  Potatoes   46 

Staffed   Sweet  Potatoes   47 


Vegetables 


Asparagus,  To  Cook   54 

Beans,  Baked    52 

Beans,  Lima    51 

Beans,  Salted    48 

Beet  Greens   58 

Beets.  Creamed    50 

Beets,  Minced      50 

Cabbage,  Creamed  Raw    55 

Cabbage,  Escalloped    55 

Cabbage,  Stewed  Red  56 

Cabbage,  Stuffed     55 

Carrot  Fritters 50 

Carrots     49 


Carrots   and  Onions,  Smothered   50 

Carrots   and   Peas    50 

Carrots,   Pickled   50 

Cauliflower,  Stewed  56 

Celeriac    53 

Celery,    Cooked    53 

Corn,   Baked     47 

Com,  Boiled   Green    47 

Corn,   Dried   48 

Com,  Fried    47 

Com,  Salted     48 

Cucumbers,   Stuffed    52 

Dandelion,  Cowslips  and  Dock 58 

Egg  Plant  Ways  54 

Greens,    Beet   58 

Hot  Slaw   56 

Okra  Ways  58 

Onion    Gravy    57 

Onions,  Baked     57 

Onions,  Creamed     57 

Onions,  Fried   Spring    57 

Parsnips,  Creamed    51 

Parsnips,  Fried  or  Baked   51 

Peas,  Baked     51 

Peas,  Mashed   (Dried)    52 

Peas.  Steamed  Green    51 


INDEX 


275 


Page 

Vegetables—  Continued 

Peas  with  Egg  Timbales 258 

Peppers,  Stuffed   55 

Badishes.    Stewed    55 

Eutabaga,  Boiled  or  Fried  54 

Salsify  or   Oyster  Plant.  Baked   54 

Sauerkraut,    To    Cook    56 

Slaw,    Hot    56 

Spinach,   Boiled  or  Baked  57 

Squash,  Escalloped    53 

Squash,  Fried  or  Baked    53 

String  Beans,  To  Cook   52 

Swiss    Cliard    58 

Tomatoes  and  Onions,   Baked 49 

Tomatoes,  Creamed    48 

Tomatoes.  Fried    49 

Tomatoes.  Escalloped    49 

Tomatoes,  Scrambled    49 

Tomatoes,  Stewed     48 

Tomatoes,  Stuffed     49 

Turnips.  Creamed  or  Mashed  51 

Salads 

Banana   Salad]    62 

Beet  and  Potato  Salad  264 


Page 

Cabbage  iSalad   61 

Egg   Salad   61 

Fish  Salad   61 

Fruit  Salad    62 

Garnishes,   Salad   59 

Lettuce  Salad,  Wilted  or  Dutch 62 

Meat  Salad    61 

Potato  Salad   61 

Potato  and  Beet  Salad 61 

Tomato  Salad   62 

Vegetable  Salad   61 

Waldorf  Salad   62 


Salad  Dressing 

Boiled   Dressing    60 

Cabbage  Dressing 59 

Cream  Dressing    59 

Egg  Dressing    60 

French    Dressing    59 

Mayonnaise  Dressing  60 

Alayonnaise  Dressing  Boiled  60 

Mustard  Dressing    60 

Piquant  Dressing  60 


Puddings,  Custards,  Sweet  Sauces 


Puddings 


Apple   Pudding    63 

Apple  Pudding,  Dutch  63 

Apple  Cornmeal  Pudding   71 

Apple,  Tapioca  Pudding    71 

Apple  Roll,  Baked    64 

Apple  Roll.  Coiled     64 

Apple   Slump   64 

Banana   Pudding    66 

Berry  Pudding.  Danish   67 

Biscuit    Pudding    74 

Blackberry   Pudding    68 

Bread  Pudding.  Boiled     73 

Bread  Pudding,  Graham    73 

Bread  Pudding,  Plain     73 

Bread  Pudding,  Raised    73 

Brown  Betty,    Baked    64 

Caramel  Pudding   73 

Carrot  Pudding,   Baked 75 

Cherry  Pudding    67 

Chocolate  Pudding.   Baked   74 

Christmas  Pudding   67 

Com  Pudding   76 

Cornmeal   Pudding,    Apple   71 

Cornstarch    Pudding    72 

Cottage  Pudding  74 

Cottage  Pudding,  Rhubarb 74 

Cracker  Pudding 74 

Cranberry  Pudding   ..,„ 67 

Currant  Pudding    67 

Date  Pudding   66 

Fig  Pudding  66 

Fruit  Pudding,  Boiled   69 

Fruit  Pudding.  Indian  71 

Graham  Pudding    71 

Grape  Foam    259 

Indian   Pudding,   Steamed   71 


Jelly,  Lemon      

Tolly,  Sweet  Cider   

Lemon  Pudding,  Boiled  

Lemon  Pudding,  Frosted    

Marshmallow  Snow  Pudding   

Nut    Pudding,  Graham    

Nut  Pudding    (Rich)    

Oatmeal  Pudding   

Orange    Pudding    

Persimmon   Pudding   

Plum  Pudding     

Plum  Pudding,  Baked  Fresh    

Plum  Pudding,  Cliristmas     

Plum  Pudding,  Indian    

Plum  Pudding   (no  eggs)    

Potato  Pudding,  Raw    

Potato  Pudding,  Sweet    

Prune     Pudding     

Prune   Wh  ip    

Puff  Pudding    

Pumpk-in   Pudding  

Rhubarb   Pudding   

Rice  and  Tapioca  Pudding 

Rice  Pudding,  Boiled    

Rice  Pudding,  Eggless    

Rice  Pudding,  Lemon    

Sago  Pudding    

Sago  Rhubarb  Pudding 

Suet  Pudding    

Suet  Pudding,  Baked    

Suet  Pudding  (no  eggs)    

Tapioca  and  Rice  Pudding   

Tapioca  Pudding,  Apple 

Tapioca  Pudding,  Boiled     

Tapioca  Pudding,  Indian  

Tapioca  Pudding.  Rhubarb  and  Prune, 

Tomato   Pudding    

Vegetable  Pudding  


276 


INDEX 


Page 

Custards 

Cocoanut  Custard  77 

Cream  Custard  77 

Kaisin  Custard.  Plain   77 


Sweet  Sauces 

Apple    and    Cranberry    Sauce 79 

Apple  Sauce,  Boiled  Cider  80 

Apple  Sauce,  Plain    80 


Page 

Boiled  Cider  Sauce  80 

Butter    Sauce    78 

Cheap  Sauce    78 

Cranberries,    Stewed  Whole    79 

Cranberry  and  Apple  Sauce 79 

Cranberry  Sauce,   (Jelly)    79 

Cranberry  Sauce,  Thin  79 

Grape   Sauce    79 

Hard  Sauce   78 

Maple  Sugar  Sauces   78 

Plum  Pudding  Sauce,  English   78 

Ehubarb  Sauce   80 

Strawberry    Sauce    8ft 

Uncooked  Sweet  Sauces  7& 


Soups,  Stews  and  Chowders 


Soups 

Asparagus  Soup   5 

Bean  Soup  ^ 

Bean  Soup  Baked    4 

Bean  Soup.  German   3 

Beef  and  Tomato  Soup  6 

Beef   Soup    6 

Cabbage  Soup   | 

Carrot  Soup,  Cream  of 5 

Celery  Soup,    Cream  of    5 

Chicken    Soup    o7 

Chicken  and  Bean  Soup  7 

Chicken  and  Rice  Soup   7 

Clara  Soup   21 

Codfish    Soup    14 

Corn   Soup,   Cream   of    4 

Corn  Soup,   Green    4 

Five  Minute  Soup   7 

Giblet  Soup   7 

Ham  and  Vegetable  Soup   5 

Milk    Soup,    Rivel    7 

Mutton  Soup  with  Tapioca  6 

Onion  Soup,  Cream  of 4 

\     Pea  Soup.  Cream  of   3 

;     Pea  Soup,  Split    3 

I      Potato  and  Celery  Soup   3 

Potato  and   Onion   Soup   3 

Potato  Soup,   Cream  of   2 

Rutabaga  Soup,  Cream  of   5 

Salisfy  or  Mock  Oyster  Soup   7 

Tomato  Soups  2 

Veal   Soup    6 

Vegetable  Soups   1»  2 


Stews 

Beef  Liver  Stew   8' 

Beef    Stew    8 

Corned   Beef  Stew  9 

Irish    Stew    9 

Meat  Stew  with  Dumplings   8 

New   England    Stew    9 

Oyster   stew    20 

Picnic    Stew    10 

Pork  Stew.  Fresh     9 

Pork  Stew.  Salt    9 


Chowders 

Clam  Chowder  22 

Corn   Chowder  1* 

Egg    Oiowder    10 

Mock   Clam   Cliowder   10 

Potato  Chowder   Ift 


Miscellaneous 

Croutons  for  Soup 8 

Noodles  for  Soup,  Egg    8 

Noodles  for  Soup,  German    8 


LIBRARY  OF  CONGRESS 


0  014  358  290  5 


lliii 


ill 

flllUlIt 


