■>'r- 


f^ 


1 


\i 


VSv.iVC4     ^^\i 


-x 


1  '^ 


r 


ii-« 


No.  3€SO 


UNIVERSJTYOF 
ILLINOIS  LIBRARY 
AT  URBAN  A  CHAMPAIGN 
'^         OAK  STREET 
LIBRARY  FACIUTY 


Corner  Book  Shop 

102  Fourth  Ave. 
New  York  3,  N.  Y. 


Original 
Recipes 


Good  things 


to  eat 


Logan  Square  Chapter 

Number   Five    Hundred    Sixty 

Order  of  the  Eastern  Star 


INDEX 

Page 

Soups 7-  13 

Fish  and  Oysters : 15-  21 

Meats    23-  37 

Dumplings  38-  39 

Vegetables 41-  45 

Vegetarian  Dishes  46-  48 

Salads  49-  57 

Salad  Dressings 57-  59  . 

Bread 61-  66 

Biscuits,  Muffins,  etc ..— : 67-  70 

Coffee  Cakes 73-  75 

Pies 77'  81 

Puddings   83-  89    . 

Desserts  and  Ice  Cream 91-  97 

Confections 99-103 

Cakes    -....: 105-129 

Cookies,  Jumbles,   etc 131-140 

Doughnuts  141-143 

Griddle  Cakes 145-146 

Pickles,  Jellies  and  Preserves 148-165 

Beverages    167-168 

Sandwiches 169-171 

Household  Hints,  Tables  of  Weights  and  Measures  and 

Time  of  Cooking 173-177 


OFFICERS  FOR  1919 


Mrs.  Lillie  Trodson,  Worthy  Matron 

Mr.  Thomas  B.  Torgerson,  Worthy  Patron 
Mrs.  Lillian  Yerger,  Associate  Matron 
Miss  Alice  Gambles,  Secretary 

Mrs.  Julia  Paulson,  Treasurer 

Mrs,  Anna  Enke,  Conductress 

Mrs.  Euphemia  Hocker,  Associate  Conductress 
Mrs.  Tillie  Campbell,  Chaplain 

Mrs.  Carrie  Hansen,  Marshal 

Miss   Charlotte   Dortmund,   Organist 
Mrs.  Carrie  Antonini,  Adah 

Mrs.  Martha  Alberti,  Ruth 

Mrs.  Ella  Riedel,  Esther 

Mrs.  Ella  Jensen,  Martha 

Miss  Florence  Nelson,  Electa 

Miss  Signa  Johnson,  Warder 

Mr.  Thomas  F.  Otley,  Sentinel 

Mr.  Charles  Ohlson,  Stereoptician 


Logan  square  chapter,  o.  e.  s. 

Good  friends,  Fm  placed  here  in  your  view 

To  introduce  myself  to  you. 

Between  my  covers  you  will  find. 

Choice  Recipes  of  every  kind. 

You  need  not  be  a  third-rate  cook, 

For  all  you  have  to  do  is  look. 

ril  teach  you  how  to  mix  and  bake 

The  things  that  mother  used  to  make. 

Good  things  to  drink  and  things  to  eat 

x\nd  hard  and  soft  and  sour  and  sweet. 

All  credit  goes,  I  must  confess, 

To  LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  O.  E.  S. 
They  put  me  here  to  tell  you  why 
This    splendid    COOK-BOOK    you    should 
buy. 

Compiled  by  members  of 

LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560 

Order  of  the  Eastern  Star 


To  Our  Friends: 


i( 


But  for  lifcy  the  universe  were 
nothing;  and  all  that  has  life  re- 
quires nourishment  ' 

Cookery  is  the  art  of  preparing  food  for  the 
nourishment  of  the  body.  In  preparing  this 
book  we  wish  that  it  may  not  only  be  looked 
upon  as  a  compilation  of  tried  and  tested 
recipes,  but  that  it  may  awaken  a  deeper  in- 
terest in  our  friends  and  a  broader  study  of 
what  to  eat. 


66 


//  Pays  to  Advertise'^ ^ 

is  an  old  adage,  and  let  us  make  it  a  true  one 
by  patronizing  the  advertisers  in  this  book, 
and  by  so  doing  we  will  show  our  apprecia- 
tion for  their  courtesy  to  us. 


THE  COOK  BOOK  COMMITTEE 
LILLIAN   YERGER,   Chairman 

GRACE  BRADWAY  CLARA  KISTNER 

MARY  BLOHM.  EMMA  BOETTCHER 

ELIZABETH  DEGEN  HANNAH  ALIE 

HANNAH  SCHMIDT  CHARLES  TRODSON 

LILLIE  TRODSON,  Worthy  Matron 
THOMAS  B.  TORGERSON,  Worthy  Patron 


"Diet  cures  mair  than  doctors."    (An  old  Scotch  proverb.) 

Tomato  Soup 

Boil  12  tomatoes  until  they  are  soft,  run  through  a  sieve  and 
add  a  teaspoon  of  soda  to  a  quart  of  pulp.  Put  a  tablespoon 
of  butter  in  a  sauce  pan;  when  it  melts  add  a  teaspoon  of 
flour.  Add  a  pint  of  hot  milk,  salt,  cayenne  pepper,  and 
cracker  crumbs.  When  it  boils,  add  the  tomatoes.  Do  not 
let  it  boil  after  the  tomatoes  have  been  added.     Serve  at  once. 

Mrs.  Wilhelmina  Albrecht. 


Potato  Soup   . 

Four  medium  sized  potatoes,  2  medium  sized  onions,  1  slice 
bacon  or  salt  pork,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste;  2  quarts  of  water. 
Dice  potatoes,  onions  and  bacon,  put  on  to  cook  in  hot  water, 
boil  one  hour.  Serve  with  bread  and  butter.  Serves  five 
people.  Nellie  Gray. 


Split  Pea  Soup 


One  cup  dried  split  peas,  4  cups  water,  1  cup  milk,  1  onion, 
2  tablespoons  butter,  1  teaspoon  salt,  ^  teaspoon  ground 
mixed  spices,  %  teaspoon  curry  powder.  Melt  butter  in  a 
pot,  add  onion,  minced  fine,  and  spices;  stir  in  hot  butter  for 
three  minutes.  Now  add  peas  and  water  and  boil  one  hour  in 
a  covered  pot  or  until  peas  will  pass  through  a  sieve.  Add 
milk.     Bring  all  to  a  boil  and  serve  hot.  Mrs.  Fox. 


8  LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S. 


Phone  Humboldt  1027 

All  Departments 


Hollander  Warehouses 

FIREPROOF 

Moving,  Packing, 

Shipping  of 
Household 

Goods 


Warehouse  A  Warehouse  B 

1616-18  Milwaukee  Ave.  2418  Milwaukee  Ave. 


LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S.  9 

Creamed  Fish  Soup 

One  and  one-half  pounds  of  perch  or  any  soHd  fish,  1  tea- 
spoon salt,  2  quarts  of  water,  Yz  onion,  1  bayleaf,  4  whole 
spices,  2  tablespoons  of  vinegar,  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  1  cup 
of  cream,  1  tablespoon  of  cornstarch,  1  ^%g.  Cook  the  onion, 
salt,  butter,  spice  and  bayleaf  in  2  quarts  of  boiling  water, 
then  add  the  fish.  When  all  are  done,  put  on  a  platter.  Pour 
soup  through  strainer,  add  vinegar  to  taste  and  the  cornstarch 
dissolved  in  the  cup  of  cream.  Let  come  to  a  boil,  take  from 
stove.  Have  ready  one  or  two  eggs  well  beaten,  add  to  the 
soup,  stirring  all  the  time.  Be  careful  not  to  have  it  boiling 
hot  or  the  zgg  will  curdle.    Add  teaspoon  of  chopped  parsley. 

Bertha  E.  Samlow. 

Cream  of  Tomato  Soup 

One-half  can  tomatoes,  1  small  tablespoon  sugar,  ^  tea- 
spoon soda,  Yx  cup  butter,  1  quart  milk,  1  slice  onion,  4  table- 
spoons flour,  1  teaspoon  salt,  and  y%  teaspoon  of  pepper. 
Scald  milk  with  onion,  remove  onion  and  thicken  with  flour 
mixed  with  cold  water  until  smooth  enough  to  pour.  Cook 
twenty  minutes,  stirring  constantly  at  first.  Cook  tomatoes 
and  sugar  fifteen  minutes.  Add  soda  and  rub  through  a 
strainer.  Combine  mixtures  and  strain  into  a  heated  dish 
over  butter,  salt  and  pepper.  Mrs.  Anna  Shaberg,  P.  M. 

Oxtail  Soup 

One  small  oxtail,  6  cups  stock,  ^A  cup  each  carrots,  tur- 
nips, onions  and  celery  cut  fine,  ^  teaspoon  salt,  few  grains 
cayenne,  J4  cup  Madeira  wine,  1  teaspoon  Worcestershire 
sauce,  and  1  teaspoon  lemon  juice.  Cut  oxtail  in  small  pieces, 
wash,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  dredge  with  flour  and 
fry  in  butter  ten  minutes.  Add  stock  and  simmer  one  hour, 
then  vegetables.  When  soft  add  salt,  cayenne,  wine,  sauce 
and  lemon  juice.  Clara  Mack. 


10  LOGAN  SQUAR?  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S. 

Lima  Bean  Soup 

Two  cups  lima  beans,  4  quarts  water,  1  large  onion  minced 
fine,  4  tablespoons  butter,  2  tablespoons  cornstarch,  1  teaspoon 
celery  seed,  ^  teaspoon  pepper,  2  small  teaspoons  salt.  Wash 
beans  and  soak  over  night.  Pour  ofif  the  water  and  put  them 
on  to  boil  in  3  quarts  of  water.  As  soon  as  they  boil,  add 
1  teaspoon  of  soda  and  drain.  Add  4  quarts  of  boiling  water 
to  the  beans  and  place  them  where  they  will  simmer  for  four 
hours.  Add  celery  seed  the  last  hour  of  cooking.  Cook  the 
onion  and  butter  in  stewpan  about  fifteen  minutes  and  add 
to  the  soup.  Cook  a  few  minutes  together  then  rub  through 
a  sieve.  Add  cornstarch  dissolved  in  a  little  cold  water.  Pep- 
per and  salt  to  taste.    Cook  twenty  minutes  and  serve. 

Mrs.  Lillie  Trodson,  Worthy  Matron. 


Thick  Rice  Soup 

Two  pints  of  water  or  stock,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste;  2 
small  onions,  2  tablespoons  of  crisco,  1  cup  of  rice,  1  cup  of 
canned  tomatoes,  or  4  fresh  ones.  Wash  and  drain  rice.  Heat 
crisco  in  saucepan,  add  rice  and  stir  constantly  until  a  golden 
brown.  Now  add  water  or  stock,  onions  and  tomatoes  cut 
in  small  pieces,  and  seasonings.     Cook  slowly  for  one  hour. 

Mrs.  Ethel  Sorensen. 


Peanut  Soup 

One  tumblerful  peanut  butter,  1  pint  water,  1  quart  milk, 
2  tablespoons  cornstarch,  2  small  teaspoons  salt,  1  sliced  onion, 
1  cup  chopped  celery.  Put  all  together  in  double  boiler,  ex- 
cept cornstarch.  When  soup  reaches  scalding  point,  mix  corn- 
starch with  a  little  cold  milk  and  add,  stirring  for  fiYt  minutes, 
when  it  is  ready  to  serve. 

Mrs.  Lillie  Trodson,  Worthv  Matron. 


LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S.  U 

Soup  of  Za  Beans 

Place  2  ounces  of  olive  oil  in  stewpan,  1  onion  chopped  fine 
and  cook  until  slightly  brown.  Add  1  can  kidney  beans,  1 
pint  of  water  and  cook  for  thirty  minutes  with  seasoning  to 
taste.  Without  disturbing  ingredients  add  ^  pound  of 
noodles  and  cook  until  noodles  are  tender.       Mrs.  B.  Koch. 


Vegetable  Soup 

Three  pounds  fresh  beef,  4  quarts  water  (cold),  1  large 
onion,  1  large  carrot,  1  stalk  celery  or  celery  root,  3  leaves  of 
cabbage,  J^  cup  lima  beans,  Y^  cup  navy  beans,  1  tablespoon 
salt.  Put  meat  and  cold  water  on  to  boil.  Soon  as  it  starts 
to  boil  skim.  Add  beans  and  vegetables,  cut  as  for  vegetable 
soup,  add  salt,  cover  and  let  boil  slowly  for  three  hours. 
Strain  off  half  the  clear  soup  and  set  aside  to  cool.  Add  1 
cup  of  canned  tomatoes  to  the  remaining  vegetables  and  let 
come  to  a  boil.  This  makes  good  vegetable  soup.  Then  use 
the  strained,  clear  soup  for  next  day  and  add  noodles  or 
boiled  rice.  Mrs.  Louis  Ziv. 


Cream  of  Tomato  Soup 

Peel  and  cut  up  a  dozen  ripe  tomatoes,  stew  until  tender  in 
a  cup  of  water,  put  through  a  colander  or  vegetable  press,  and 
thicken  with  3  teaspoons  of  cornstarch,  rubbed  to  a  paste 
with  a  heaping  tablespoon  of  butter,  season  to  taste  with 
salt,  butter,  onion  juice,  and  enough  sugar  to  correct  the  acid 
taste  of  the  tomatoes.  Pour  slowly  into  a  quart  of  un- 
skimmed milk  scalding  hot,  to  which  a  pinch  of  soda  has 
been  added.  The  mixture  added  to  the  milk  should  be  brought 
to  a  boil  before  it  goes  into  the  sauce  pan  containing  the 
milk.  Serve  at  once  before  the  foam  induced  by  the  boiling 
subsides.  If  you  can  have  the  milk  one-quarter  cream,  the 
soup  will  richly  deserve  its  name.  Marian  Krueger. 


12 


LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S. 


Resources  Over 
$4,000,000.00 


Under    Direct    Supervision    of 
the   State   of   Illinois 


North  Avenue  State  Bank 

NORTH  AVE.&  LARRABEE  ST 

CHICAGO 
A  Safe  Bank  for  Your  Savings 

Savings  Deposits  in  sums  of  One  Dollar  or  more  to  any  amount 
are  received  on  which  three  per  cent  interest  is  allowed,  com- 
puted semi-annually. 

Money  deposited  on  or  before  the  Tenth  of  any  month  will  re- 
ceive interest  from  the  first  of  that  month. 

Safe  Deposit  Vaults.  The  most  spacious  and  complete  Safe  De- 
posit Vaults  on  the  North  Side  are  operated  in  connection  with 
this  Bank.     Boxes,  $3.00  per  year  upwards. 

OFFICERS 

Landon   C    Rose President 

Charles  E.  Schick.  „ Vice  President 

Otto    G.    Roehling Cashier 

Victor  H.   Thiele Ass't  Cashier 

Open  Saturday  Evening  6:00  to  9:00 


YOUR  BUSINESS  IS  CORDIALLY  INVITED 


LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S.  13 

Clam  Chowder 

One  pound  of  bacon  cut  in  small  pieces.  Fry  brown.  Three 
quarts  of  water,  J4  peck  potatoes  cut  small,  3  onions  cut 
small,  1  can  tomatoes,  1  can  of  corn,  1  can  of  clams,  chopped. 
Boil  until  potatoes  are  tender.  A  Friend. 


Tomato  Bouillon  With  Oysters 

One  can  tomatoes,  1^^  quarts  bouUion,  1  tablespoon  chopped 
onions,  ^  bay  leaf,  6  cloves,  ^  teaspoon  pepper  corns,  ^ 
teaspoon  celery  seed,  and  1  pint  oysters.  Mix  all  ingredients 
except  oysters  and  boil  twenty  minutes.  Strain  and  cool. 
Add  par-boiled  oysters  and  serve  in  cups  with  crotons. 

Mrs.  Mary  Vitou. 


Spinach  Soup 

Boil  2  pounds  of  beef  and  ^  pound  of  salt  pork.  Then  add 
1  cup  of  oatmeal,  onion,  potatoes  and  2  cups  of  chopped  spin- 
ach. Veda  Torgerson. 


Soup  Consomme  Regale 

Put  2  tablespoons  of  butter  in  kettle,  add  2  pounds  of  beef 
and  2  pounds  veal  cut  up  fine;  stir  until  brown,  add  little 
water  and  stew  for  half  hour.  Add  2  quarts  cold  water  and 
simmer  for  two  hours.  Then  add  1  onion,  1  carrot  and 
celery  cut  up  with  bayleaf,  parsley,  seasoning,  etc.  Cook 
until  done,  strain  and  cool.  When  ready  for  use,  remove  fat 
on  top,  boil  up,  add  white  of  tgg  beaten  and  mixed  with  1  cup 
cold  water.  Boil  hard  ten  minutes.  Throw  in  another  }4 
cup  cold  water.  Boil  again  five  minutes,  strain  and  serve. 
This  is  a  delicious,  clear,  bouillon.  Mrs.  Bessie  Sings. 


14 


LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S. 


Betty  and  Her  Daddy 

It's  two  in  the  morning  and  the  house  is  cold.  Out  of  the 
darkness  comes  a  cry — 

"Daddy!     Daddy!*  Oh,  Daddy!" 

And  Daddy  is  up.  He  doesn't  mind  the  cold  if  the  little 
hand  that  pats  him  is  warm. 

That  was  ten  years  ago — happy,  short  years,  working  for 
the  baby  and  her  mother. 

It  is  two  in  the  morning  again — and  out  of  an  awful  dark- 
ness comes  the  cry — 

"Daddy!     Daddy!     Oh,  Daddy!" 

But  Daddy  will  never  jump  up  again — and  he  does  not 
know  that  Betty's  hands  are  warm  over  his  cold  ones. 

*  ♦  :► 

It's  two  years  later,  and  the  little  cash  balance  is  gone. 
Mother  is  a  forewoman  in  an  overall  factory.  Betty  is  a  cash 
girl.  She  will  be  an  uneducated  woman.  "Daddy"  and 
Mother  had  planned  college  and  a  happy  life  for  her. 

The  cash  balance  would  have  paid  for  an  income  for  life  for 
wife  and  daughter. 

Go,  story  from  life,  and  save  other  fathers  from  making  the 
same  economic  mistake ! 

BENJAMIN  BRADFORD. 


OFFICE 

414    Monadnock 

Bldg. 

53    W.    Jackson 
Blvd. 

Tel. 
Harrison    4031 


RESIDENCE 

2610  No.  Sawyer 
Ave. 


Td. 
Albany    6580 


GILBERT  SAMUELSON 

Special  Agent  for  the  Connecticut  Mutual  Life  Ins.  Co. 
Founded  1846  Hartford,  Conn. 


It  has  been  observed  that  "Change  is  the  sauce  that  sharpens  appetite." 

Fish  Croquettes 

To  lyz  cups  cold  flaked  halibut  or  salmon  add  1  cup  thick 
white  sauce.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  spread  on  a 
plate  to  cool.  Shape,  roll  in  crumbs,  tgg  and  crumbs,  and  fry 
in  deep  fat.  Drain,  arrange  on  hot  dish  for  serving,  and 
garnish  with  parsley.  If  salmon  is  used,  add  lemon  juice  and 
finely  chopped  parsley.  Mrs.   Golden. 


Steamed  Salmon 

(Very  good  for  luncheon.) 

One  large  can  of  salmon,  2  eggs  beaten  lightly,  2  table- 
spoons melted  butter,  }4  cup  bread  crumbs,  little  lemon  juice, 
pepper  and  salt.  Pour  oflf  the  juice,  pick  out  bones  and  chop 
fine.  Beat  crumbs  in  eggs  and  butter.  Steam  one  hour  in 
round  tins.  Two  1 -pound  baking  powder  tins  will  answer  the 
purpose. 

Sauce  for  Salmon 


Make  milk  gravy  of  1  cup  milk,  add  liquid  from  salmon; 
lastly  add  1  egg  beaten  lightly.  Do  not  let  boil  after  adding 
egg.  This  recipe  will  serve  ten  persons  and  served  with 
mashed  potatoes  and  the  sauce  makes  a  very  nice  luncheon. 

Deborah  Hirschberg. 


16  LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S. 

~~  Baked  Halibut 

Put  in  baking  pan  3  thin  slices  of  fat  salt  pork  about  two 
inches  square,  3  slices  of  onion  and  a  bit  of  bayleaf.  On  lop 
of  these  lay  your  halibut,  spread  over  it  a  tablespoon  of  butt  ir 
and  flour  creamed  together,  cover  with  buttered  cracker 
crumbs,  small  strips  of  salt  pork  and  bake  twenty  to  thirty 
minutes.  Cooked  this  way  it  is  delicious.  Garnish  with 
lemon  and  parsley.  Mrs.  Bradway. 

Flounders 

Clean  fish  and  let  stand  in  cold  water  one  hour.  Drain,  salt 
and  let  stand  one  hour.  Add  1  ^  tablespoons  vinegar  in  water 
to  cover  fish.  Boil  about  three  minutes  over  a  slow  fire. 
Serve  with  a  gravy  made  of  butter,  flour,  chopped  parsley  and 
liquid  from  fish.  Mrs.  Betty  Sorenson. 

Salmon  Puff 

One  large  can  salmon,  2  eggs,  1  cup  bread  crumbs,  2  cups 
milk  (salt  and  pepper),  1  onion  and  a  little  butter.  Bake 
half  hour.  Mix  salmon,  bread  crumbs,  onion  and  seasoning 
and  milk  together.  Beat  eggs  until  light  and  add  to  above 
ingredients.  Mrs.  Joseph  Balassa. 

Halibut  Steak 

Two  halibut  steaks,  ^  pint  oysters,  a  few  thin  slices  salt 
pork,  1  cup  cracker  crumbs,  %  cup  melted  butter,  salt,  pap- 
rika. Put  slices  of  pork  in  a  pan,  then  one  steak  seasoned  and 
covered  by  oysters  which  have  been  rolled  in  butter ed_  cracker 
crumbs,  then  put  on  the  other  steak,  with  slices  of  pork  on 
top.  Bake  thirty-five  minutes  in  hot  oven,  basting  every  ten 
minutes.    Delicious.  Mrs.  Rae  Franknecht. 


LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S.  17 

Creamed  Salmon 

Separate  canned  salmon  into  rather  large  pieces  and  heat 
without  breaking  very  much,  in  white  sauce.  Serve  on  hot 
buttered  toast  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper. 

Mrs.  D.  Dindinger. 


Herring 

Two  fat  salt  herring  (best).  Soak  over  night,  clean,  re- 
move bone  and  skin,  cut  in  inch  pieces  and  cover  with  the 
following:  One  cup  vinegar,  6  teaspoons  sugar,  2  large 
onions.  Mrs.  Betty  Sorenson. 


Codfish  Balls 

One  cup  of  codfish,  2  cups  potatoes,  ^  tablespoon  butter, 
1  egg.  Cover  the  codfish  with  boiling  water.  When  it  is 
slightly  cool,  drain,  shred  and  add  to  mashed  potatoes,  add 
butter  and  beaten  tgg.  Mix  thoroughly,  shape  into  balls  and 
fry  in  deep  fat.     Drain  and  serve  with  white  sauce. 

Lillie  Zoelck. 


Creamed  Lobster 

One  large  can  lobster,  1  pint  milk,  3  tablespoons  butter, 
2yi  tablespoons  flour,  paprika,  salt  and  pepper,  1  green  pep- 
per sliced.  Remove  bones  from  lobster  and  all  hard  portions. 
Melt  butter  in  a  skillet,  add  flour  and  stir  until  smooth. 
Then  add  milk  which  has  been  warmed.  Stir  till  it  is  creamy 
and  all  lumps  disappear.  Add  seasoning  and  finally  lobster. 
Let  the  mixture  boil,  and  when  it  reaches  the  desired  con- 
sistency serve  in  ramkins  or  patty  shells.  Place  one  or  two 
rings  of  green  pepper  on  each  portion. 

Mrs.  Christine  Branding. 


la  '     LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S. 

Fish  Pudding 

Mix  1  tablespoon  of  flour  with  1  teaspoon  of  butter ;  when 
melted  add  1  cup  of  milk,  and  when  thick  add  the  beaten  yolks 
of  2  eggs  and  cook  one  minute.  Remove  from  fire  and  add 
1  cup  of  cold  cooked  fisli  chopped  fine.  Season  with  salt  and 
pepper  and  mix  in  whites  of  eggs  beaten  stiif.  Bake  about 
one  hour.  Ethel  M.  Davis. 

Baked  Halibut  Steak 

Trim  the  steaks,  lay  them  on  a  roasting  pan  and  for  2 
pounds  use  1  cup  of  cream,  1  teaspoon  salt  and  ^  teaspoon 
of  pepper.  Dredge  the  steaks  with  flour,  add  the  seasoning, 
then  pour  over  the  cream  and  bake  fifteen  minutes  in  a  quick 
oven.  Mrs.  F.  Moenck. 

Broiled  Finnan  Haddie 

Broil  in  a  greased  broiler  until  brown  on  both  sides.  Re- 
move to  a  pan  and  cover  with  hot  water,  let  stand  ten  minutes, 
drain  and  place  on  a  platter.  Spread  with  butter,  and  sprinkle 
with  pepper.  Mrs.  Golden. 

*-  White  Fish  Croquettes 

Boil  1^  pounds  of  white  fish  until  done.  Cool  and  pick 
meat  off  bones.  Make  a  sauce  of  5^  cup  butter,  1  tablespoon 
flour,  1  cup  milk.  Beat  until  smooth,  add  a  little  grated  onion, 
parsley.  Pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Make  day  before  using. 
Next  morning  cut  and  shape  any  way  you  desire.  Beat  3 
eggs.  About  1  loaf  of  bread  crumbs  so  dry  you  can  sift  them. 
Dip  in  eggs,  then  bread  crumbs  and  let  stand  for  a  little 
while.    Fry  in  deep  hot  fat,  in  a  wire  basket. 

Lilh>  Trodson,  Worthy  Matron. 


LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER.  No.  560,  O.  E.  S. 


19 


imnHNHiiiHniiuntWNUiiiuiHnimmmHtutniiiNUHiiiniiHmnNHUumimiHHHUHHiiiNHmiinHHUiiinRHHiHmHmnintmiHUuuiuiw 


Quality  Diamonds 
Reliable  Watches 
Standard  Jewelry 


Olsen 


Ebanng 


414^18  Republic  Building 


Fourth 
Floor 


Open  tilt  9  P.  M 
Saturdats 


Corner 


209  S.  State  St.    aSS 


Phone  Harrison  1006 
Salesman     Will     Call 


BRANCH   STORES 

209  E.  Main  St..  Benton  Harbor.  Mich. 
152  S.    Burdick   St.,    Kalamazoo,    Mich. 
319  W.  State  St..  Rockford.  111. 
414  Sixth  St.,   Racine,   Wis. 
165  Main    St.,   Kenosha,   Wis. 
Ill  W.    Wayne    St.,    Ft.    Wayne,    Ind. 
216  S.  Michigan  St.,  South  Bend,  Ind. 
Cor.   8th  &  Wabash,   Tere  Haute.  Ind. 


tkz 


ARISTOCRATS     OF 
CREDIT  JEWELERS 


J^ 


fVe  ha-ue  a  most  at- 
tractive and  refined 
credit  plan  for  those 
nvho  Tvant  a  charge 
account  of  more  than 
30  days. 


We  operate  9  stores 
njohich  gi-ves  us  a  great 
'purchasing  poiver  and 
price  concessions.  You 'will 
find  these  reflected  in  our 
reasonable  prices. 


^niMiiiiiiiniiiiiuiiinuiiiiiiiiiinininiMiiiinHiiiniiiHfiuuiiniinHiuiHiHinninnnmuMiuniniiniinimiiiiiHiHiHHiiuiHUHiiMiiHHiuniuniuiunimiHiin 


Oysters 


Escalloped  Oysters 

One  pint  oysters,  4  tablespoons  oyster  liquor,  2  tablespoons 
cream,  Yz  cup  stale  bread  crumbs,  1  cup  cracker  crumbs,  J4 
cup  melted  butter,  salt  and  pepper.  Mix  bread  and  cracker 
crumbs  and  stir  in  butter.  Put  a  thin  layer  in  bottom  of 
baking  dish,  cover  with  oysters  and  sprinkle  with  salt  and 
pepper.  Add  ^  each  oyster  liquor  and  cream.  Repeat  and 
cover  top  with  remaining  liquor,  cream  and  crumbs.  Bake 
thirty  minutes  in  a  hot  oven.  Lydia  Patterson. 


Fried  Oysters 

Clean  and  dry  selected  oysters.  Season  with  salt  and  pep- 
per, dip  in  flour,  tg'g  and  cracker  crumbs  and  fry  in  deep  fat. 
Drain  on  brown  paper,  garnish  with  parsley  and  serve  with 
or  without  sauce.  Ella  Patterson. 


Oyster  Cocktail 

Eight  raw  oysters,  1  tablespoon  tomato  catsup,  ^  table- 
spoon lemon  juice,  2  drops  Tabasco,  salt,  1  teaspoon  celery 
chopped  very  fine,  and  ^  teaspoon  Worcestershire  sauce. 
Mix  ingredients,  chill  thoroughly,  and  serve  in  cocktail 
glasses.  Bessie  Shipley. 


Coddled  Oysters 

Melt  1  tablespoon  butter  in  pan  and  add  enough  tomato 
catsup  to  cover  the  amount  of  oysters  used.  When  bubbling, 
add  oysters  and  cook  two  minutes.     Serve  on  toast. 

Mrs.  Elizabeth  Cramer. 


LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S.  21 

Oyster  Toast 

Serve    broiled   oysters   on    small    pieces    of   milk    toast. 
Sprinkle  with  finely  chopped  celery.  Mrs.  Golden. 

Lemon  Butter 

One-quarter  cup  of  butter,  1  tablespoon  lemon  juice.  Cream 
the  butter  and  add  slowly  the  lemon  juice. 

White  Sauce 

Two  tablespoons  butter,  Ij^  tablespoons  flour,  1  cup  scalded 
milk,  J4  teaspoon  salt,  few  grains  pepper.  Put  butter  in  a 
saucepan,  stir  until  melted  and  bubbling,  add  flour  mixed 
with  seasonings,  and  stir  until  thoroughly  blended,  then  pour 
on  gradually  the  milk,  bring  to  a  boiling  point  and  let  boil 
two  minutes. 

Tartar  Sauce 

One  tablespoon  vinegar,  1  teaspoon  lemon  juice,  ^  teaspoon 
salt,  1  tablespoon  Worcestershire  sauce,  l/o  cup  butter.  Mix 
vinegar,  lemon  juice,  salt  and  Worcestershire  sauce  in  a  small 
bowl  and  heat  over  hot  water.  Brown  the  butter  in  a  pan 
and  strain  into  first  mixture.  Mrs.  Golden. 

"If  you  attempt  the  boiling  to  hurry,  the  gas  only  is 
wasted;  but  in  attempting  the  roasting  to  hurry,  the  food  as 
well,  isn't  fit  to  be  tasted." 


Many  Husbands  are  utterl}^  spoiled  by  mismanagement  in  cooking  and 
so  are  not  tender  and  good. 

Some  women  go  about  it  as  if  their  husbands  were  bladders,  and  l^low 
them  up;  others  keep  them  constantly  in  hot  water;  others  let  them  freeze  5y 
their  carelessness  and  indifference.  Some  keep  them  in  a  stew  by  irritating 
ways  and  words,  others  roast  them,  and  others  keep  them  in  a  pickle  all  their 
lives.  It  cannot  be  supposed  that  any  husband  will  be  tender  and  good, 
managed  in  this  way,  but  they  are  really  delicious  when  properly  treated.  In 
selecting  your  husband  you  should  not  be  guided  by  the  silvery  appearance 
as  in  buying  mackerel,  nor  by  the  golden  tint,  as  if  you  wanted  salmon.  Be 
sure  to  select  him  yourself,  as  tastes  differ.  Do  not  go  to  the  market  for 
him,  as  the  best  are  always  brought  to  the  door.  It  is  far  better  to  have 
none  unless  you  will  patiently  learn  how  to  cook  him.  A  preserving  kettle 
of  the  finest  porcelain  is  best,  but  if  you  have  nothing  better  than  an  earthen- 
ware pipkin,  it  will  do  with  care.  See  that  the  linen  in  which  you  wrap  him 
is  nicely  washed  and  mended,  with  the  required  number  of  buttons  and  strings 
nicely  sewed  on.  Tie  him  in  a  kettle  by  a  strong  silken  cord  called  Comfort. 
as  the  one  called  Duty  is  apt  to  be  weak.  He  is  apt  to  fly  out  of  the  kettle 
and  be  burned  and  crusty  on  the  edges,  since,  like  crabs  and  lobsters,  you 
have  to  cook  him  while  alive.  Make  a  clear,  steady  fire  out  of  love,  neatness 
and  cheerfulness,  set  him  as  near  this  as  seems  to  agree  with  him.  If  he 
sputter  and  fizz,  do  not  be  anxious  about  him.  some  husbands  do  this  until  they 
are  quite  done.'  Add  a  little  sugar  in  the  form  of  what  confectioners  call 
;kisscs,  but  ,iTo  vinegar  or  pepperxnust  be  used  on  any  account.  A  little  spice 
improves  them,  but  it  must  be  used  with  care  and  judgment.  Do  not  stick 
■any  sharp  instrument  into  him  to  see  if  he  is  becoming  tender,  stir  him  gently, 
watch  the  while,  and  you  cannot  fail  to  know  when  he  is  done.  If  thus  treated 
you  will  find  him  very  digestible,  agreeing  nicely  with  you  and  the  children, 
and  he  will  keep  as  long  as  you  wish,  unless  you  become  careless  and  set  him 
in  too  cold  a  place. 


"If  you  attempt  the  boiling  to  hurry. 
The  gas  only  is  wasted; 
But  in  attempting  the  roasting  to  hurry 
The  food  as  well,  isn't  fit  to  be  tasted." 


Veal  Loaf 


One  and  a  half  pounds  ground  veal,  J^  pound  ground  salt 
pork,  1  can  tomato  soup,  1  stalk  celery,  1  green  pepper  cut 
fine,  1  large  onion,  cut  fine,  salt  and  pepper.  Mix  all  together 
and  roast  about  one  hour.  Mrs.  Elizabeth  Kreuter. 


Chop  Suey 

One  pound  shoulder  pork  and  1  p(Aind  veal,  cut  small.  Fry 
slowly  half  hour.  Add  1  teaspoon  salt,  2  tablespoons  New 
Orleans  molasses.  Fry  ten  minutes  more.  Add  1  cup  sliced 
onions,  2  cups  celery,  cut  small.  Fry  twenty  minutes.  Sprinkle 
with  flour  three  times.  Boil  a  few  minutes,  then  add  pepper, 
paprika  and  Chili  sauce.     Serve  with  boiled  rice. 

Mrs.  Bessie  Sings. 


English  Beef 

Tenderloin  sliced  ^-inch  thick  and  flattened,  salt  and  pep- 
per and  a  little  flour.  Brown  in  hot  butter  both  sides.  Fry 
eggs,  place  on  slices  of  beef  and  serve  hot. 

Mrs.  Bettie  Sorenson. 


24      LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S. 


MORMS 


Supre 


TESTED  FOODS 


Satisfying  Food  Products 
Bear  This  Label 


HAMS  BACON  EGGS 

BUTTER  LARD 

Canned   Meats,  Fruits, 
Vegetables  of  All  Kinds 


Morris  &  Company,  U.  S.  A. 

Packers  and  Provisioners 


LOGAN  SQuXrE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S.  25 

Jellied  Chicken 

Three  pounds  chicken  and  1^  pounds  lean  veal.  Cook  until 
tender.  While  cooking  add  salt  and  pepper,  parsley,  ^  lemon 
and  1  onion.  Remove  meat,  strain  liquor  about  1  quart.  Add  2 
tablespoons  gelatine  dissolved  in  small  cup  of  water.  Remove 
meat  from  bones,  cut  in  pieces  and  add  to  liquor.  Pour  in  a 
mold  and  let  stand  a  day.  Cut  in  slices  and  garnish  with  thin 
slices   of   lemon.  Mrs.    Sarah    Mack. 


Beef  a  la  Mode 

Three  pounds  beef  from  round,  ^  doz.  ripe  tomatoes  or  1 
can,  2  onions.  Place  tomatoes  and  onions  in  skillet,  add  salt 
and  pepper.  Place  meat  on  vegetables,  add  1  cup  hot  water, 
and  y^  cup  vinegar.  Cover  tightly  and  cook  slowly  about 
three  hours.     Thicken  gravy  when  ready  to  serve. 

.  Mrs.  F.  Caldwell.     . 


Chicken  Terrapin 

Cut  up  left-over  cold  chicken  into  small  pieces.  Put  in 
skillet  1  cup  rich  milk.  Mix  1  tablespoon  of  flour  and  butter, 
and  when  milk  boils  stir  it  in.  Add  salt  and  pepper.  Chop 
2  hard  boiled  eggs,  add  to  chicken  and  stir  together  into 
thickened  cream.    Let  come  to  boil  and  serve. 


Ham  and  Pork  Loaf 

Two  pounds  pork  from  shoulder,  2  pounds  cottage  ham 
ground  together,  3  eggs  beaten,  %  cup  sweet  milk,  1  cup 
cracker  crumbs,  pepper,  no  salt.  Mix  well  together.  Form  in 
loaf.  Bake  in  bread  pan  with  one  small  can  Campbell's  tomato 
soup  poured  over  top.  Mrs.  Bessie  Sings. 


26      LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S. 

Hungarian  Goulash 

Cut  2  pounds  of  beef  into  2-inch  pieces  and  dredge  with 
flour.  Fry  2  ounces  of  salt  pork  until  light  brown,  add  the 
beef  and  cook  slowly  for  thirty-five  minutes,  stirring  occasion- 
ally. Cover  with  water  and  simmer  two  hours.  Season  with 
salt  and  paprika.  Cook  2  cups  of  tomatoes,  1  stalk  celery,  1 
onion,  2  bay  leaves,  6  whole  cloves,  6  pepper  corns  about  thirty 
minutes.  Press  through  sieve  and  add  to  some  of  the  stock  in 
which  the  meat  was  cooked.  Thicken  with  flour,  season  with 
salt  and  pepper  and  serve  meat  on  platter  with  sauce  poured 
over  it.  Mrs.  Loges. 


Meat  Balls  En-Casserole 

One  pound  round  steak,  ^  pound  pork  put  through  meat 
chopper  twice,  1  egg^  1  onion  chopped  fine,  2  tablespoons 
bread  crumbs,  2  tablespoons  milk;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 
Form  in  balls  and  fry  in  deep  fat.  Place  in  casserole.  Gravy 
— 1  heaping  tablespoon  flour  mixed  with  fat  remaining  in 
frying  pan.  Brown.  Pour  small  can  tomatoes  into  pan,  stir 
until  thickened.  Season  with  pepper  and  salt,  pour  over  meat 
balls  in  casserole,  and  place  in  oven  for  half  hour. 

Mrs.  B.  Koch. 


Breast  of  Veal  With  Peas 

The  best  part  for  this  is  the  thick  end  of  the  breast.  Cut 
into  lengths  about  two  or  three  inches  thick.  Place  them  in 
a  casserole  with  1  or  2  onions  cut  in  small  pieces,  and  1  ounce 
of  fat.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper.  Cover.  Put  on  fire 
and  let  steam  until  veal  begins  to  fry,  turn  pieces.  Add  dry 
peas  (soaked  over  night).  Cover  with  water.  Season  to 
taste.     Cover  and  let  simmer  until  tender. 

Mrs.  Lottie  Holmes. 


LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S.  27 

Creamed  Meats 

One  teaspoon  butter,  1  tablespoon  flour,  1  cup .  water. 
Brown  the  butter,  add  flour,  then  water.  Let  boil,  then  add 
cold  meats.  Mrs.  F.  Lehmann. 

Armenian  Rolls 

One  and  one-half  pounds  round  steak,  ground,  1^  cups  of 
rice,  1  can  tomatoes,  2  large  onions  chopped  fine,  small  bunch 
of  parsley,  1  lemon,  2  tablespoons  of  lard,  pepper  and  salt-to 
taste,  1  large  head  of  cabbage.  Way  to  prepare:  Drain  the 
tomatoes,  save  the  juice,  mix  ground  meat,  raw  rice,  onions 
and  parsley  (do  not  cut  too  fine),  and  thick  part  of  tomatoes, 
salt  and  pepper  all  together.  Cut  heart  out  of  cabbage,  but 
do  not  cut  in  half.  Drop  in  boiling  water,  boil  ten  minutes. 
Take  apart  and  roll  1  teaspoon  of  the  mixture  in  a  part  of 
cabbage  leaf  until  all  of  the  mixture  is  used  up.  Makes  about 
fifty  rolls.  Take  juice  of  tomatoes,  add  juice  of  1  lemon,  dash 
of  red  pepper  and  salt,  pour  over  rolls  when  laid  very  close 
together  in  a  stew  kettle.  Put  a  light  weight  on  when  cook- 
ing, and  cook  about  four  hours  over  a  very  slow  fire.  Melt 
lard  in  stew  kettle  before  adding  rolls. 

Mrs.  Joseph  Shindoler. 

East  India  Chop  Suey 

Five  pounds  of  chicken  cut  in  small  pieces  and  fried  in 
butter.  Fry  ^  pound  salt  pork  cut  in  chips,  with  6  large 
onions  and  garlic,  separate  from  chicken.  Cut  6  stalks  of 
celery,  2  leaks,  put  in  large  kettle  half  filled  with  water,  add 
chicken  and  other  mixture,  1  can  of  mushrooms,  boil  together 
until  chicken  is  tender.  When  done,  thicken  with  3  table- 
spoons curry  powder  and  flour,  add  1  can  of  French  peas. 
Cook  rice  separately.     Serves  twelve  people. 

Mrs.  Marie  Pearson. 


28 


LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S. 


KeepuptheTMHabit 

$1.00  or  More  Starts 
a  Savings  Account 

3  Per  Cent  Interest  Paid 


Make  Our  Bank  Your  Bank 

Under    State    Government    Supervision 


SQUARE 


BANK. 


A  STATE 
BANK 


tOGAW  SQ  =?' 


CTERMINUS 


Capital  and  Surplus,  $225,000 

GENERAL  BANKING 

Safe  Deposit  Vaults 

Boxes  $3.00  and  up 

LOGAN  SQUARE  JJ"i'TN*2?  BANK 

Milw^aukee    Avenue    at    Logan    Square 


YOUR         PATRONAGE  INVITED 


LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S.  29 

Meat  Dish 

One  and  a  half  pounds  of  round  steak,  chopped;  1  cup  un- 
cooked rice,  washed;  1  small  onion  grated,  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste.  Mix  all  together  and  form  into  meat  cakes.  Roll  in 
flour  on  both  sides,  put  in  butter  or  dripping.  Then  pour  a 
can  of  tomatoes  over  cakes  and  cook  one  hour.  After  they 
cook  down  a  little  add  water  to  keep  from  burning. 

Mrs.  Martha  Donovan,  Past  Matron. 


Flank  Steak  With  Tomato  Sauce 

One  tablespoon  butter,-  one  large  onion.  Fry  together  until 
a  golden  brown.  Take  a  medium  sized  flanked  steak  and 
brown  well  on  both  sides  in  the  onion  and  butter.  Pour  over 
it  a  very  little  water  and  let  simmer  down.  Then  add  a  can 
of  tomato  soup.     Cover  and  let  simmer  for  twenty  minutes. 

Mrs.  D.  Dindinger. 


Meat  Balls 

Grind  pieces  of  meat  left  from  any  roast.  Fry  small  onion 
in  fat.  Add  meat  mixed  with  softened  stale  bread,  salt  and 
pepper.  Add  yolks  of  two  eggs.  Mix  well.  Add  beaten 
whites  of  eggs.  Roll  in  bread  crumbs  and  flour.  Fry  to  a 
nice  brown.  Mrs.  Betty  Sorenson. 


Hamburg  Steak 

One  pound  round  steak,  1  tablespoon  cornstarch,  ^  cup 
milk,  2  teaspoons  salt,  small  spoon  of  pepper.  Beat  well. 
Drop  with  tablespoon  on  greased  frying  pan,  brown  both  sides, 
add  1  cup  of  water,  cover  and  let  simmer  over  very  slow  fire. 

Mildren   Watson. 


30  LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S. 

Chopped  Beef  and  Green  Peppers 

One-half  pound  round  steak  ground,  ^  cup  uncooked  rice, 
1  small  onion  cut  up  fine,  1  egg,  salt  and  pepper,  6  sweet  green 
peppers.  Mix  beef  and  uncooked  rice  and  add  onion,  salt  and 
pepper  and  bind  with  egg.  Cut  the  stem  end  off  the  green  pep- 
pers and  clean  out  seeds  and  fibre  and  stuff  with  meat  mix- 
ture. Stand  erect  in  small  kettle  and  just  cover  with  water 
boiling.  Cook  slowly  for  about  half  hour  or  until  rice  is 
cooked.  Brown  some  butter,  add  good  tablespoon  tlour  and 
brown.  Remove  peppers  carefully  from  kettle,  and  add 
browned  flour  to  liquid  left  and  cook  until  thickened.  Pour 
over  peppers  and  serve  hot.  Mrs.  Agnes  M.  Johanson. 


Chop  Suey 

One  pound  round  steak,  1  pound  pork  shoulder  or  veal,  5 
onions,  2  stalks  celery,  3  tablespoons  molasses,  2  tablespoons 
chop  suey  sauce.  Cut  meat  into  small  oblong  pieces  and  flour 
same.  Then  brown  in  suet,  salt  and  pepper,  and  add  enough 
water  to  about  cover.  Then  add  molasses  and  sauce  and  let 
simmer  until  almost  tender.  Add  cut  up  onions  and  celery 
(do  not  cut  too  small)  and  simmer  until  all  is  tender.  Serve 
with    steamed   rice. 

Gertrude  Bergslien,  Past  Worthy  Matron. 


Chile  Con  Carni 

One  pound  kidney  beans  soaked  over  night.  Cook  in  morn- 
ing with  1  large  onion,  a  small  stalk  of  celery  and  a  small 
can  of  tomato  pulp.  When  done  add  7  potatoes  cut  up  in 
small  pieces;  a  small  package  of  spaghetti  cooked  separately: 
add  a  pound  of  chopped  beef,  a  little  at  a  time,  and  a  pinch  of 
red  and  black  pepper.     Cook  until  potatoes  are  soft. 

Mrs.  Loges. 


LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  5.  61 

Meat  Balls  With  Celery  Cream 

One  pound  beef  chopped  fine,  J4  ^^^^  ^^  bread  soaked  in 
water  (do  not  use  crust).  Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  onion 
and  nutmeg.  Beat  1  egg,  add  a  cup  of  milk  gradually  and 
mix  well  with  the  above.  Shape  in  balls.  Boil  tops  of  celery 
stalks  about  half  hour,  salt,  strain  and  add  meat  balls.  Cook 
until  they  come  to  the  top.  Celery  Cream — Cream  1  table- 
spoon of  butter  and  2  tablespoons  of  flour.  Add  liquid  from 
meat  and  milk  to  make  a  gravy.  Add  1  teaspoon  of  sugar  and 
pieces  of  celery  cut  fine.  Boil  ten  minutes,  add  meat  balls  and 
let  simmer  a  few  minutes.  Mrs.  Emma  Johnson. 

'  Goose  Dressing 

Four  onions  and  1  ounce  green  sage  chopped  fine,  1  large 
cup  of  stale  bread  crumbs,  same  of  mashed  potatoes,  1  cup 
raisins,  1  cup  chopped  apples,  1  teaspoon  butter,  1  teaspoon 
salt  and  pepper,  2  eggs.    Mix  well  and  stuff  goose. 

Mrs.   Elizabeth  Cordes. 


Pork  Tenderloin  Roast  and  Dressing 

Take  2  tenderloins  of  even  size.  Split  down  lengthwise  but 
not  quite  through.  Flatten  out,  rub  with  salt  and  pepper, 
fill  with  sour  apples  or  dressing.  Fold  the  two  together,  i'ut 
with  white  cord,  lay  sliced  onions  on,  half  hour  before  serv- 
ing surround  wath  sour  apples.  Roast  in  oven  about  one  and 
a  half  hours. 

Dressing — 2  cups  of  soaked  bread  crumbs,  1  small  onion, 
J  tablespoon  of  butter,  1  tgg,  }4  teaspoon  salt,  few  shakes  of 
pepper.  Pour  water  on  stale  bread,  when  soft  press  dry.  Beat 
the  egg  well,  stir  in  the  seasoning.  Mince  the  onion.  Put  in 
frying  pan  with  butter.  Cook  a  little,  not  brown.  Add  the 
bread,  turn  a  few  times  and  take  from  stove. 

Mrs.   Moenck. 


32      LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S. 

Macaroni  Chop  Suey 

One  small  box  elbow  macaroni  boiled  in  salt  water  until 
tender.  Cool  in  cold  water.  Take  3  medium  sized  carrots, 
1  onion,  1  green  pepper  and  boil  all  until  tender.  Mix  with 
macaroni,  add  1  pint  of  tomatoes,  1  pound  of  chopped  beef, 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste.     (Use  cooked  beef.) 

Mrs.  Emma  Ross. 

Veal  or  Lamb  Souffle 

Two  cups  ground  meat,  2  tablespoons  flour,  1  cup  sweet 
milk,  2  eggs,  j)arsley  (ground),  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Cook 
milk,  flour  and  yolks  of  eggs  until  thick.  Stir  meat  in  and  set 
aside  to  cool  for  twenty  minutes.  Beat  white  of  tgg  stiff  and 
mix  all  together,  and  then  place  into  medium  hot  oven  for 
twenty  minutes.  Mrs.  Elizabeth  Kreuter. 

Cold  Meat  Balls 

Mix  together,  lj4  pounds  chopped  beef,  2  eggs,  2  table- 
spoons flour,  1  cup  rice  (uncooked),  1  small  onion  chopped 
fine.  Pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Form  in  balls.  Have  ready 
one  can  tomatoes  with  water  added  which  has  cooked  for  five 
minutes  hard.  Then  add  balls  and  cook  for  one  hour.  Very 
delicious.    Will  serve  about  eight  people.        Julia  Paulson. 

Creole  Steak 

Place  a  nice  slice  of  round  steak  in  frying  pan  and  brown 
on  both  sides.  Then  smother  same  with  onions  and  one  green 
pepper  cut  fine.  Add  salt  and  pepper,  cover  with  one  can 
of  tomatoes,  and  simmer  slowly  until  tender.  This  can  also 
be  baked  in  oven. 

Gertrude  Bergslien,  Past  Worthy  Matron. 


LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S.  ^3 

Fried  Chicken 

Wash  and  cut  chicken  into  small  pieces.  Boil  until  tender 
in  water  to  cover.  Drain  and  fry  brown  in  frying  pan  with 
1  tablespoon  butter  and  1  tablespoon  lard,  salt  and  pepper. 
The  liquid  chicken  which  has  been  boiled  can  be  used  for  soup, 
stock.  Miss  Nellie  Gray. 


Chicken  a  la  King 

Stew  a  chicken,  about  4  pounds,  in  salt  water  until  tender. 
Pick  meat  from  bones  and  cut  in  pieces,  not  too  small.  Melt 
4  tablespoons  of  butter,  blend  wath  4  tablespoons  of  flour, 
add  gradually  1  quart  of  milk,  cook,  add  chicken,  1  green 
pepper,  3  pimentoes  cut  in  pieces.  Cook  about  one-half  hour 
and  add  one  can  mushrooms.     Serve  on  toast. 

Mrs.  Lydia  Patterson. 


Baked  Ham  and  Potatoes 

Place  slices  of  raw  ham,  not  too  thin,  in  baking  dish,  cut 
potatoes  in  cubes  and  arrange  around  ham,  add  dabs  of  but- 
ter, salt  and  pepper.  Add  enough  milk  to  cover  and  bake 
about  forty-five  minutes.  Marie  Keller. 


Hassenpfeffer  or  Pickled  Rabbits 

Wash  clean  and  cut  in  pieces  two  rabbits.  Place  in  stone 
jar,  cover  with  layer  of  onions,  sliced,  sprinkle  with  salt  and 
pepper.  Cover  with  vinegar  and  let  stand  two  days.  Then 
take  out  the  rabbit  and  when  a  little  dry,  fry  out  bacon  and 
put  the  rabbit  in.  Fry  a  little  brown  and  then  let  it  boil  in 
the  same  brine  it  was  pickled  in.  Add  about  3  ginger  snaps. 
When  done,  thicken  the  gravy  as  you  like  it.  Serve  with 
mashed  potatoes.  Mrs.  Conrad  Giese. 


34      LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S. 


Telephone  Belmont  6933 


Thompson  &  Moeller 
Undertaking 

Free    Use    of    Chapel 


Automobiles  for  All  Occasions 


n 


3429  FuUerton  Avenue 
CHICAGO 


LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  r^u.  560,  O.  E.  S.  35 

Pickled  Cabbage  or  Sauer  Kraut 

One  quart  pickled  cabbage,  1^  pounds  of  spare  ribs,  J4 
pound  fat  bacon.  Put  cabbage  in  a  stone  bowl,  place  spare 
ribs  on  top.  Cut  up  the  bacon  in  pieces,  strew  over  top,  cover 
with  1J4  cups  of  water  and  bake  in  hot  oven  one  and  a  quarter 
hours.  Serve  with  mashed  potatoes.  No  odor  in  the  house 
this  way.  Mrs.  Conrad  Giese. 


Baked  Ham  and  Potatoes 

Take  sHce  of  raw  ham  any  thickness  and  set  in  shallow 
pan.  Slice  raw  potatoes  very  thin  and  throw  over  ham. 
Cover  all  with  milk  and  bake  slowly  about  three-quarters  to 
one  hour.  Potatoes  will  be  brown  and  will  absorb  salt  from 
ham.     Do  not  salt  potatoes.     Simply  add  pepper,  if  desired. 

Mrs.  Agnes  M.  Johansen. 


Beef  Loaf 

Three  and  one-half  pounds  round  steak,  ground,  1  tgg 
beaten  and  mixed  with  the  meat;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste; 
2  onions,  chopped,  4  crackers,  rolled.  Mix  well  and  form  in 
a  loaf.     Bake  in  moderate  oven.  Mrs.  Albrecht. 


Bordeau  Sauce 

One  quart  tomatoes  chopped  fine,  2  quarts  cabbage  chopped 
fine,  5  medium  sized  onions  chopped  fine,  2  green  peppers 
chopped  fine,  2  stalks  of  celery  chopped  fine,  2  cups  sugar,  2 
teaspoons  salt,  1  teaspoon  celery  seeds,  ^  tablespoon  white 
mustard  seeds,  %  tablespoon  turmeric  powder,  1  quart  vine- 
gar.    Boil  twenty  minutes.  Deborah  Hirschberg. 


# 


36  LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S. 

Smoked  Butts  and  Lima  Beans 

One  pound  lima  beans,  3  pounds  smoked  butts.  Soak  beans 
over  night.  Cook  slowly  one  and  a  half  hours.  Season  to 
taste  just  before  cooked.  Mary  Blohm. 


Escalloped  Eggs  and  Meat 

Boil  6  eggs  twenty  minutes.  Make  1  pint  of  white  sauce 
with  cream  and  milk,  seasoning  to  taste.  Moisten  1  cup  of 
fine  bread  crumbs  in  melted  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut.  Chop 
fine  1  cut  of  ham,  tongue,  fish  or  poultry.  Remove  the  yolks 
of  eggs  and  put  through  a  fine  sieve.  Chop  whites  fine.  Put 
a  layer  of  the  crumbs  in  a  buttered  dish,  then  a  layer  of  the 
chopped  whites,  then  the  white  sauce  mixed  with  the  meat,  a 
layer  of  yolks,  a  layer  of  whites  and  on  top  a  layer  of  buttered 
bread  crumbs.     Put  in  oven  until  brown  on  top. 

Mrs.  Mohs. 


Vegetable  Stew 

One-quarter  pound  of  bacon  cut  in  pieces  and  fried  brown. 
Cut  medium  sized  onion  and  fry  in  above.  Add  3  cups  of 
hot  water,  2  cups  of  diced  carrots,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 
Simmer  until  nearly  done.  Add  3  cups  diced  potatoes.  When 
soft,  add  a  can  of  peas,  drained  and  heated  and  a  lump  of 
butter.     Serve  hot.  Mrs.  Emma  Johnson. 


Spanish  Goulash 

One  pound  raw  ham  cut  in  cubes,  2  green  peppers  (remove 
seeds),  fry  lightly.  Add  1  can  tomatoes,  seasoning,  Yz  pound 
package  noodles  (cooked).     Add  boiling  water  to  suit. 

Martha  Alberti. 


LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S.  37 

Cabbage  Roulades 

From  a  medium  head  of  cabbage  cut  off  10  to  12  nice  solid 
leaves,  being  careful  not  to  break  them.  Trim  off  the  thick 
part  of  the  ribs.  Make  a  filling  of  about  1  pound  chopped 
round  steak  and  a  little  pork  and  2  eggs.  Salt  and  pepper  to 
taste,  then  sweat  some  fine  chopped  onions  in  butter,  adding 
parsley  and  mix  with  filling.  After  scalding  the  cabbage 
leaves  to  make  them  soft,  put  one  tablespoon  of  filling  or 
more  into  each  leaf  and  roll.  Then  lay  them  side  by  side 
into  frying  pan  in  which  the  butter  has  been  heated  almost 
brown  and  brown  them  on  either  side,  turning  or  rather  roll- 
ing them  with  a  spoon  so  as  not  to  break  them.  Then  spread 
a  good  handful  of  flour  all  over  them  and  when  brown  add 
water  and  let  them  simmer  slowly.  This  makes  a  very  good 
gravy.  Add  enough  water  to  cover  them  and  in  about  twenty 
minutes  they  are  done.  Lillie  Trodson,  Worthy  Matron. 


Porcupines 

One  pound  round  steak  ground,  J4  pork  with  it,  ^  rice 
(raw).  Season  with  salt,  pepper,  onion,  make  into  balls.  Cook 
in  the  following:  One  can  Campbeirs  tomato  soup,  2  cans  hot 
water.    Boil  for  one  and  a  half  hours. 

Mrs.  Mary  Hollison,  Ben  Hur  Chapter. 


Dumplings 

Soda  Cracker  Dumplings 

Eight  crackers  rolled  fine,  1^  tablespoons  of  flour,  J/^  tea- 
spoon salt,  yolk  of  1  tgg.  Mix  cracker  with  the  beaten  yolk, 
add  milk  and  then  the  beaten  white.  Drop  in  ball  form  in 
boiling  broth.  Mrs.  Anna  Schaberg,  Past  Matron. 


Dumplings  for  Stew 

Two  heaping  cups  of  flour,  2  heaping  teaspoons  baking 
powder,  1  teaspoon  salt,  1  cup  milk.  Sift  dry  ingredients 
four  times,  pour  in  milk  and  stir.  Boil  ten  minutes  in  tight 
covered  pan.     Do  not  remove  cover  until  done. 

Deborah  Hirschberg. 


Farina  Dumplings 

Into  one  cup  boiling  milk  add  1  teaspoon  butter  and  pinch 
of  salt.  Add  slowly  ^  cup  farina,  let  boil  a  few  minutes, 
stirring  constantly.  When  cool,  add  egg  and  beat  well.  Drop 
into  soup  or  stew,  with  a  teaspoon. 

Mrs  Elizabeth  Freyermuth. 


Rice  Pins 

One-quarter  cup  of  rice,  1  quart  of  milk,  2  tablespoons  of 
sugar,  2  tablespoons  of  butter,  10  or  12  almonds,  5  walnuts, 
2  tablespoons  raisins.  Grind  8  cardimum  seeds  and  2  whole 
cloves  together.  Blanch  almonds  and  cut  in  half  the  long 
way.  Cut  walnuts  in  small  pieces.  Melt  butter,  add  rice  and 
fry  a  few  minutes;  do  not  brown.  Add  milk  and  sugar,  boil 
twenty-five  minutes  without  cover,  add  nuts,  raisins  and 
spices.     Boil  two  minutes  longer  and  serve  hot. 

Mrs.  Anna  Fox. 


LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S.  39 

Butter  Dumplings 

Take  a  lump  of  butter  size  of  an  Qgg  and  beat  with  2  eggs 
until  light,  then  stir  in  4  tablespoons  of  flour.  Drop  from  a 
teaspoon  into  the  boiling  broth  and  cook  five  minutes. 

Mrs.  Anna  Schaberg,  Past  Matron. 

Potato  Dumplings 

Two  eggs,  about  8  large  potatoes,  boiled  and  grated.  Mix 
tggs,  potatoes  and  salt  to  season.  Knead  in  enough  flour  to 
handle  easily,  or  so  it  will  not  cling  to  hands.  Fry  small 
squares  of  white  bread  in  butter  until  light  brown.  Pack 
two  or  three  of  these  pieces  in  center  and  make  into  balls. 
Place  in  boiling  salt  water  and  boil  about  thirty  minutes.  To 
be  eaten  with  gravy.  Mrs.  Anna  Householder. 

Fish  Dumplings 

One  tgg,  1  teacup  flour,  pinch  of  salt,  a  little  sweet  milk. 
Make  this  into  a  thin  batter.  One  and  a  half  pounds  of  fish, 
boned,  halibut  is  fine.  Cut  in  pieces,  add  a  little  salt,  and  dip 
in  batter.     Fry  in  deep  fat  thirty  minutes  very  slowly. 

Mrs.  Daisy  Illingsworth. 

» 

Dumplings 

Sift  2  cups  of  flour,  2  heaping  teaspoons  Dr.  Price's  baking- 
powder  and  ^  teaspoon  of  salt.  Add  1  cup  of  milk  or  water, 
stir  and  drop  from  spoon  into  a  kettle  in  w^hich  meat  is  boil- 
ing. Now  comes  the  secret  of  success  of  these  dumplings. 
Have  plenty  of  water  over  the  meat  before  dropping  in  the 
dumplings  and  boil  moderately  with  cover  off  for  fifteen  min- 
utes, then  cover  and  boil  five  minutes  longer. 

Olive  Burnett. 


40      LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S. 

Look  fo^  f^^  Emblem  Ta?  :  it  is  your  Buarantee  of  Master  Service. 

Expert  Cleansing 

THERE  is  more  to  the  proper  cleansing  of  your 
suit  than  removing  the  surface  soil.  We  CLEAN 
them  through  and  through, 
inside  and  out.  They  are 
sterilized,  pressed  and  finish- 
ed. This  is  why  our  service 
always  means  quality. 

TELEPHONE  US 

Two  Telephones 

Irving  8197 

AND 

Irving    737 


We  Desire  to  be  Known  As 

the  Best  Rather  Than 

the  Largest 

With  our  years  of  experience  we  ought  to  know  and 
we  do  know  that  our  method  is  the  right  way. 

Gowns  and  fancy  trimmed  dresses,  no  matter  how 
expensive  or  what  the  material,  beautifully  cleaned. 

Our  method  is  the  only  one  by  which  men's  clothing 
should  be  cleaned ;  keeps  them  new. 

We  have  a  tremendous  number  of  satisfied  patrons. 
Why  not  you?    Satisfaction  is  all  in  all  and  we  give  it. 

We  clean  rugs,  carpets,  portieres  and  house  furnish- 
ings.   Once  tried,  always  satisfied. 

Salzman-Peisert  Co. 

L'^youT di'r       4032-K)40  Elston  Ave.  Chicago,  IlL 


% 


Beets  With  Dressing 


One  teacup  vinegar  slightly  diluted  with  water,  1  table- 
spoon butter,  - 1  tablespoon  flour.  Rub  butter  and  flour  to- 
gether and  add  to  the  heated  vinegar.  Salt  and  pepper  to 
taste.     Pour  over  the  sliced  beets.         Mrs.  Olive  Burnett. 


Carrots  Lyonnaise 

Cut  cold  boiled  carrots  into  slices  and  then  into  narrow 
strips.  Put  butter  in  a  pan,  add  a  small  onion  chopped  fine 
and  cook  until  it  begins  to  brown.  Add  the  carrots,  cook 
without  browning  for  about  five  minutes.  Season  with  salt 
and  pepper  and  sprinkle  with  finely  minced  parsley  just  be- 
fore serving.     Drain  well  and  serve  very  hot. 

Mrs.  E.  Schmidt. 

Cabbage  Souffle 

Cut  a  medium  sized  cabbage  in  quarters,  put  on  in  cold 
water,  let  boil  fifteen  minutes.  Drain,  cover  with  hot  water 
and  cook  until  tender.  Drain  dry,  chop  fine,  season  with  salt, 
pepper  and  butter.  Beat  2  eggs  until  light,  add  4  teaspoons 
of  cream,  put  into  a  greased  baking  dish,  sprinkle  top  with 
bread  crumbs  and  bake.  Mrs.  Holden. 

Candied  Cranberries 


Two  cups  of  sugar,  1  cup  water,  boil  to  syrup.  Wash  2 
cups  of  cranberries,  pour  syrup  over  them  and  bake  twenty 
minutes.  Lillie  Trodsen,  Worthy  Matron. 


42      LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S. 

String  Beans  and  Bacon 

Fry  carefully  about  5  slices  of  bacon.  Add  1  quart  beans 
with  enough  boiling  water  to  keep  from  burning.  Cook  slowly 
until  tender  and  when  done  add  a  little  cream.     Mrs.  Baker. 

Peas  and  Carrots 

Cook  together  until  tender  in  boiling  salted  water.  Drain 
and  add  a  piece  of  butter,  1  teaspoon  sugar,  chopped  parsley 
and  thicken  with  flour.  Mrs.  Mabel  Jones. 

Corn  a  la  Southern 

To  1  can  chopped  corn  add  2  eggs  slightly  beaten,  1  tea- 
spoon salt,  j4.  teaspoon  pepper,  1^  tablespoons  melted  butter, 
and  1  pint  scalded  milk.  Turn  into  a  buttered  dish  and  bake 
in  a  slow  oven  until  firm.  Mrs.  Lydia  Patterson. 

Spinach 

Clean  and  drop  in  boiling  salt  water.  When  tender,  drain, 
chop  and  serve  with  a  dressing  of  milk,  little  flour,  butter, 
pinch  of  sugar,  salt,  and  a  dash  of  nutmeg.  Cook  three  min- 
utes. Betty  Sorenson. 

Egg  Plant 

Cut  the  plant  into  slices  %  of  an  inch  thick  without  remov- 
ing the  skin.  Sprinkle  salt  over  each  piece,  pile  them  and 
cover  with  weight  to  press  out  the  juice.  Drain  and  dip 
each  slice  first  in  fine  cracker  crumbs,  then  in  beaten  tgg,  and 
again  in  crumbs  and  fry  in  hot  fat,  turning  so  as  to  brown 
on  both  sides.  Mrs.  Lillie  Trodson,  Worthy  Matron. 


LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S.  43 

Spanish  Onions  in  Casserole 

Butter  casserole.  Place  first  a  layer  of  onions,  then  cracker 
crumbs  with  small  bits  of  butter,  salt  and  pepper.  Fill  the 
dish  in  this  way.  Make  top  layer  of  crumbs,  cover  with  milk 
and  bake  in  moderate  oven.  Hannah  Schmidt. 


Spaghetti  (Italian  style) 

One  pound  of  spaghetti  or  macaroni.  Cook  twenty-five 
minutes.  One-quarter  pound  of  grated  cheese  (Swiss  or 
American),  gravy.  Cook  fifty  minutes.  Gravy.  In  about 
%  of  a  cup  of  butter,  fry  a  medium  sized  onion  and  V2  pound 
of  ground  beefsteak,  until  light  brown.  Then  add  2^  cups 
stewed  tomatoes,  1  teaspoon  salt,  ^  teaspoon  pepper,  ^  tea- 
spoon cayenne  pepper,  6  bay  leaves.  Mushrooms,  either  fresh 
or  dried  if  obtainable.  Gravy  can  be  made  without  mush- 
rooms. Boil  this  gravy  until  thick  and  rich  (slowly)  about 
forty  minutes,  and  then  remove  the  bay  leaves.  When  spa- 
ghetti is  cooked  and  drained,  sprinkle  platter  with  cheese,  then 
spread  a  layer  of  spaghetti,  a  layer  of  gravy,  a  layer  of  cheese 
and  so  on  until  material  is  evenly  used,  having  cheese  on  top. 
Serve  hot.  If  you  have  gravy  from  roast  beef,  pork  or  veal, 
you  can  use  this  also,  boiling  it  in  with  the  other  gravy. 

Mrs.    Carrie   Antonini. 


Saratoga  Chips 

Peel  potatoes,  cut  into  very  thin  slices  and  keep  in  cold 
water  over  night,  drain  off  water  and  rub  potatoes  between 
napkins  until  thoroughly  dry,  then  throw  a  handful  at  a 
time  into  a  kettle  of  very  hot  fat,  stirring  with  a  fork  so 
that  they  may  not  adhere  to  the  kettle  or  to  each  other.  As 
soon  ^^ as  they  become  light  brown  and  crisp  remove  quickly 
with  a  skimmer  and  sprinkle  with  salt  as  they  are  taken  up. 

Mrs.  Jessie  Glad. 


44      LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S. 

Do  Your  Dusting  and 
Cleaning  With 

SEMDAC 

Liquid  Gloss 


SEMDAC  is  a  quick  and  effective  cleaning 
preparation — better  than  soap  and  water 
on    highly   finished    surfaces  —  removes 
finger  marks — covers  scars  and  mars — collects 
and  holds  the  dust. 

Use  SEMDAC  on  your  automobile — it  w^ill 
impart  a  refreshing  brightness  to  the  body, 
wrheels,  guards,  and  other  finished  surfaces. 


SEMDAC  Saves  Time  and  Labor  and  Makes 
Old  Things  Look  Like  New 


Sold  by  Dealers  Everywhere 


Standard  Oil  Company 

(Indiana) 

Chicago  Illinois 


LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S.  45 

Duchesse  Potatoes 

Half  dozen  potatoes  boiled,  mashed  and  rubbed  through  a 
sieve.  Add  some  cream,  well  beaten  yolks  of  2  eggs,  salt  and 
a  very  little  pepper.  Beat  together  and  make  into  balls,  and 
brown  quickly  in  a  hot  oven.  Mrs.  Alice  Morey. 


Baked  Beans 

Wash  and  soak  one  pound  navy  beans  over  night.  Boil 
slowly  twenty  minutes  and  drain.  Add  ^*  pound  salt  pork 
cut  in  thick  slices,  ^  cup  molasses  or  brown  sugar,  salt  to 
taste.  Cover  with  water  and  bake  in  slow  oven  about  six 
hours.     Add  water,  a  little  at  a  time  as  needed. 

Mrs.  A.  Smith. 


Creamed  Asparagus 

Clean  asparagus,  wash  and  boil  until  tender.  Brown  slightly 
1  tablespoon  of  flour,  the  same  of  butter,  stir  in  enough  of 
the  water  in  which  the  asparagus  was  boiled  to  make  a  smooth 
gravy.  Put  asparagus  in  this  gravy  and  before  serving  add 
the  beaten  yolk  of  1  tgg  and  2  tablespoons  of  cream.  A  pinch 
of  nutmeg  may  be  added  if  desired.  Veda  Torgerson. 


Potatoes  Au  Gratin 

Take  3  cups  of  mashed  potatoes  left  from  dinner.  Put  them 
into  a  dish  over  the  stove  with  half  a  cup  of  milk  and  salt  to 
season.  Stir  until  warm.  Then  beat  until  white  and  foamy. 
Add  to  this  the  whites  of  3  eggs,  well  beaten.  Put  into  "a 
baking  dish  and  scatter  over  the  top  cracker  crumbs  and 
small  pieces  of  butter.  Bake  for  twenty  minutes  until  nicely 
brown  over  top.     Serve  at  once.  Veda  Torgerson. 


Vegetarian  Dishes 


Spinach  and  Potatoes 

One  pound  of  spinach,  2  potatoes,  medium,  1  small  onion, 
2  tablespoons  butter,  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  J^  teaspoon  ground 
mixed  spices,  J4  teaspoon  curry  powder.  Chop  spinach  while 
it  is  raw.  Dice  potatoes  without  peeling.  Place  butter  in  a 
kettle,  add  onion  minced  fine,  and  spices.  Fry  for  two  min- 
utes, add  potatoes  dried,  fry  three  minutes;  add  spinach,  cook 
for  fifteen  minutes,  stirring  often.  Do  not  cover  while  cook- 
ing.   Serve  hot.  Mrs.  Anna  A.  Fox. 


Egg  Nests 

Toast  a  slice  of  bread  for  each  person  to  be  served.  Beat 
the  white  of  an  tgg  to  a  stiff  froth  for  each  slice.  Put  this 
on  the  top  of  the  toasted  bread.  Make  a  little  depression  in 
the  center  of  each,  in  it  drop  a  tiny  piece  of  butter,  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste,  and  the  whole  yolk  of  the  egg.  Place  the 
slices  in  the  oven  until  the  egg  is  cooked.     Serve  hot. 

Mrs.   D.   Dindinger. 


Cauliflower  and  Potatoes 

One  head  of  cauliflower,  1  large  onion,  3  potatoes,  3  table- 
spoons of  butter,  ^  teaspoon  of  ground  spices,  ^  teaspoon 
of  curry  powder,  J4  cup  of  milk,  1  cup  of  water  (hot).  Cut 
cauliflower  in  small  pieces  and  dice  potatoes  without  removing 
skins.  Cut  onion  fine.  Place  butter  in  a  kettle,  add  onion 
and  spices,  fry  two  minutes,  add  potatoes  and  cauliflower, 
fry  three  minutes  more.  Add  just  enough  hot  water  to  cover 
all  and  cook  until  water  has  evaporated,  add  milk,  cook  a  few 
minutes  and  serve  hot.  Mrs.  Anna  Fox. 


LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S.  47 

Bean  Fluff 

One  pint  cooked  seasoned  navy  beans  run  through  a  colan- 
der, add  2  tablespoons  cream  and  the  well  beaten  whites  of  2 
eggs.     Bake  a  light  brown  in  a  pudding  dish. 

Mrs.  Olive  Burnett. 


Spanish  Rice 

Boil  1  large  cup  of  rice  in  salt  water  until  tender,  then  add 
^  pound  of  bacon  cut  in  pieces  and  fried  crisp.  Take  out 
bacon.  Fry  an  onion  in  above,  also  1  pound  of  ground  beef 
until  brown.  Add  a  can  of  tomatoes  and  water.  Let  simmer. 
Salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Butter  a  casserole,  mix  rice,  bacon, 
beef  and  tomatoes  together,  place  in  casserole,  scatter  bacon 
crisps  over  the  top,  put  in  oven  and  brown. 

Mrs.  Emma  Johnson. 


A  Spanish  Dish 

One-half  pound  of  dried  beef,  1  can  of  tomatoes,  3  green 
peppers  cut  fine.     Cook  altogether  until  tender. 

Mrs.  Tillie  Campbell,  Past  Matron. 


Spanish  Rice 

Two  and  a  half  cups  rice  cooked  twenty  minutes;  4  pounds 
of  chicken  and  1  pound  of  veal  cooked  together.  Pick  from 
bones  and  cut  in  1-inch  squares.  Three  slices  of  bacon,  1  large 
onion  cut  in  small  pieces  and  fried  until  brown.  Boil  chicken 
stock  down  until  quite  thick  and  add  1  can  of  tomatoes,  3 
peppers  cut  fine,  dash  of  cayenne  pepper;  salt  and  pepper 
to  taste;  1  large  pimento.  Mix  all  ingredients,  except  rice, 
and  cook  well.     Add  rice,  heat  thoroughly  and  serve. 

Mrs.  George  Fristoe. 


48  LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S. 

Nut  Loaf 

One  cup  of  boiled  rice,  2  cups  toasted  bread  crumbs,  Ij/^ 
cups  of  peanuts  ground  fine,  1  egg,  1  tablespoon  of  butter, 
yi  green  pepper  chopped,  1  tablespoon  chopped  parsley.  Cook 
rice,  drain,  add  butter,  other  ingredients,  thinning  with  rice 
water  if  needed.  Bake  about  half  an  hour  and  serve  with 
tomato  sauce.  Mrs.  W.  J.  Reading. 


Spanish  Rice 

One  large  onion,  1  sweet  pepper  cut  fine,  ^  pound  of  bacon 
cut  in  cubes.  Fry  altogether  until  bacon  is  crisp.  Add  1 
can  of  tomatoes,  simmer  ten  or  fifteen  minutes.  Add  2  or  3 
cups  of  boiled  rice,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Mix  well  and 
put  in  casserole  to  bake  thirty  to  forty-five  minutes. 

Mrs.  Barbara  Eckstedt. 


Potato  Puffs 

Use  mashed  potatoes  while  hot,  forming  balls  about  the 
size  of  an  tgg.  Place  on  a  buttered  tin.  Brush  all  over  with 
beaten  eggs  and  set  in  oven  to  brown.  Serve  immediately  on 
hot  platter,  garnished  with  parsley.  Veda  Torgerson. 


Deviled  Tomatoes 

Take  6  large  red  tomatoes.  Pour  boiling  water  over  them 
and  peel.  Remove  the  inside,  being  careful  not  to  break  the 
outside.  Take  out  the  seeds  and  to  the  pulp  add  a  bunch  of 
chopped  celery,  1  hard  boiled  tgg,  salt  and  pepper,  y^  of  head 
of  cabbage,  and  ^^  cup  of  English  walnuts.  Pour  over  this 
yi  cup  mayonnaise  dressing.  Fill  each  tomato  shell  and  se4-ve. 
Leave  tomato  shell  otj  ice  until  ready  to  serve. 

Veda  Torgerson. 


"The  real  science  of  cooking  is  to  be  able  to  cook  a  good  meal  or  dish, 
with  but  little  out  of  which  to  make  it." 


Date  Salad 

One  package  of  dates,  1  pound  of  green  grapes,  3  medium 
sized  apples,  1  cup  of  walnuts.  Cut  the  grapes  into  halves 
and  remove  stones,  quarter  dates  and  cut  apples  into  small 
pieces.    Add  the  nuts  and  mix  with  following  dressing: 

Dressing — One  tgg,  1  teaspoon  of  mustard,  J4  cup  of  sugar, 
^4  teaspoon  of  salt,  1  teaspoon  butter.  Beat  the  egg  and  add 
the  other  ingredients.  Then  add  J4  cup  vinegar,  and  yi  cup 
of  milk.     Cook  until  thick.     Arrange  salad  on  lettuce  leaves. 

Rose  Zoelck. 


Pimento  Salad 

One  package  lemon  jello,  1  pint  boiling  water,  1  cup  finely 
shredded  cabbage,  1  cup  chopped  celery,  yi  green  pepper,  }^ 
pimento  sliced,  Yz  teaspoon  salt,  ^  teaspoon  pepper,  yi  tea- 
spoon mustard,  J4  teaspoon  paprika,  2  tablespoons  vinegar  or 
lemon  juice.  Prepare  jello  and  water  and  when  it  commences 
to  congeal,  add  mixture.  Put  in  mold  and  allow  to  harden  and 
serve  with  mayonnaise  dressing.  Edith  M.  Olsen. 


Cheese  Balls 


One  cup  grated  cheese,  whites  of  3  eggs,  pinch  of  salt  and 
red  pepper.  Let  stand  fifteen  minutes,  then  mould  into  balls 
the  size  of  a  walnut,  and  fry  in  deep  fat.     Serve  immediately. 

Lillie  Trodson,  Worthv  Matron. 


50 


LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S. 


ASK  YOUR  GROCER  FOR 


Creamy 


SNOWDRIFT 


,       re  vegetable  J 
X  shortening  /^ 


SNOWDRIFT 

Pure  Vegetable  Shortening 


ll 


ALL  shortening  is  fat  and  is  better 
when  it  is  fresh.  Snowdrift  is 
always  sweet  and  fresh.  It  is  fresh  as 
fresh  eggs  are  fresh.  It  is  sweet  as 
sweet  cream  is  sweet.  It  is  put  up  in 
airtight  tins — the  only  package  that 
insures  absolute  freshness. 


Made  from 


Wesson  Oil 


LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S.  51 

Cabbage  Salad 

One  large  head  of  cabbage,  1  can  oi  pimentoes,  1  small 
onion  and  1  dozen  sweet  pickles.  Chop  cabbage,  cut  pimentoes, 
pickles  and  onions,  add  J4  cup  of  vinegar,  2  tablespoons  sugar 
and  Yi  teaspoon  salt.     Mix  well.    This  will  keep  a  long  time. 

Mrs.  Lillian  Yerger. 

Kidney  Bean  Salad 

One  can  beans,  1  cup  of  chopped  celery,  ^  dozen  small 
sweet  pickles,  1  small  onion,  2  or  3  olives  (added  just  before 
serving).     Mix  with  plenty  of  dressing. 

Salad  Dressing — Beat  yolks  of  2  eggs  well  and  add  34  cup 
of  vinegar,  stir  gradually  into  the  following  which  has  been 
thoroughly  mixed:  One-half  cup  flour,  ^  cup  sugar,  1  tea- 
spoon salt,  1  teaspoon  dry  mustard,  ^  teaspoon  paprika. 
Add  1  pint  of  hot  water  and  a  good  I/3  cup  of  butter.  Cook 
in  double  boiler  until  thick.     Mix  with  cream  when  used. 

Mrs.  F.  E.  Cooley. 

Veal  Salad 

Chop  very  fine  1  pound  of  cold  veal,  1  pound  cold  boiled 
pork,  4  hard  boiled  eggs,  1  bunch  celery  and  ^  .dozen  sweet 
pickles,  adding  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Make  a  dressing- 
of  1  cup  of  vinegar,  1  beaten  ^^^  and  ^  teaspoon  dry  mustard. 
Boil  until  it  thickens.  Pour  over  salad,  mix  well  and  garnish 
with  parsley.  Mrs.  Loges. 

Delicious  Salad 

One  cup  kidney  beans  (cooked),  1  cup  celery,  1  cup  walnuts 
chopped,  6  olives  minced.  Serve  on  lettuce  with  mayonnaise 
dressing.  Mrs.  Lena  Sloan. 


52  .  LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S. 

Fruit  Salad 

Three-fourths  cup  chopped  marshmallows,  J4  cup  sliced 
pineapple,  1%  cups  grapes,  ^  cup  of  orange  sections,  ^  cup 
walnut  meats.    Spread  with  cream  dressing. 

Cream  Dressing — Mix  ^  teaspoon  salt,  J^  teaspoon  pap- 
rika, add  2  eggs  well  beaten,  2  tablespoons  lemon  juice,  % 
cup  milk.    Stir  constantly,  and  ^  pint  cream  beaten  stiff. 

Margaret  DeFlon. 

Shrimp  Salad 

One  can  of  shrimps,  1  teacup  chopped  celery,  3  hard  boiled 
eggs,  a  few  walnut  meats,  and  pour  mayonnaise  over  all  just 
before  serving.  Be  sure  to  rinse  shrimps  in  ice  water  before 
using  and  keep  all  thoroughly  chilled.  Serve  on  lettuce  leaf. 
Fresh  shrimps  may  be  used. 

Anna  Shaberg,  Past  Matron. 

Fruit  Salad 

One  cup  diced  pineapple,  1  cup  diced  oranges,  1  cup  dic^d 
dates,  \y2  cups  chopped  walnuts. 

Dressing — One-fourth  cup  pineapple  juice,  ^  lemon  juice, 
M^  sugar  1  tgg  beaten.  Beat  all  together  and  cook  until 
thickens.  Mrs.  Bradway. 

• 
Potato  Salad 

Eight  large  potatoes,  3  hard  boiled  eggs,  1  large  onion, 
parsley  and  salt  to  taste. 

Dressing:  Two  eggs  beaten  light,  1  teaspoon  dry  mustard, 
J4  cup  sugar,  %  cup  vinegar,  and  ^  teaspoon  of  salt.  Add 
piece  of  butter  size  of  a  walnut.  Cook  all  together  until 
thick.     Stir  while  cooking.  Mrs.  Elizabeth  Weber. 


LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S,  53 

Combination  Salad 

One  can  corn,  1  can  peas,  1  stalk  celery,  2  hard  boiled  eggs 
sliced. 

Dressing — Two  eggs,  beat  until  light,  1  teaspoon  ground 
mustard,  a  little  salt  and  pepper,  ^  cup  vinegar,  2  tablespoons 
sugar,  1  cup  milk.  Boil  these  ingredients  together.  If  dress- 
ing is  too  thin  add  a  little  flour.    Mix  with  the  salad  and  serve. 

Mrs.  D.  Dindinger. 

*  Tuna  Fish  Salad 

One  large  can  tuna  fish,  1  Spanish  onion  (can  be  omitted), 
2  cups  celery  (cut  up),  3  hard  boiled  eggs  (cut  up),  J4  cup 
walnut  meats  if  desired.  Pour  mayonnaise  dressing  over  all 
and  serve  on  lettuce  leaf  with  olives  and  salted  wafers. 

A  Friend. 


Chicken  Mousse 

One  cup  cooked  chicken,  1  cup  chicken  stock,  yolks  of  2  eggs, 
%  teaspoon  salt,  J4  teaspoon  paprika,  speck  of  celery  salt,  2 
teaspoons  gelatine,  1  teaspoon  cold  water,  1  cup  whipped 
cream,  3  egg  whites.  Soften  gelatine  in  cold  water.  Beat 
yolks  slightly,  add  seasoning  and  hot  stock,  cook  over  hot, 
water  until  thickened.  Add  to  gelatine  and  when  dissolved, 
strain,  cool,  add  chopped  chicken  and  beat  until  thick.  Add 
whipped  cream  and  beaten  whites,  pour  in  mold  or  indi- 
vidual molds.  Mrs.  Christine  Branding. 


Calcutta  Salad 


One  small  can  peas,  1  small  can  corn,  1  small  stalk  of  cel- 
ery cut  fine,  Yi  dozen  green  peppers,  1  tablespoon  onion  juice. 
Cover  with  ^mayonnaise  dressing.  '  Mrs.  B.  Koch. 


54  LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S. 

Bean  Salad 

One  large  head  cabbage,  3  good  sized  onions.  Chop  to- 
gether, not  too  fine.  Salt  to  taste,  then  mix  5  cups  of  beans 
that  have  been  cooked  and  cooled.  Salad  Dressing:  1  scant 
cup  of  sugar,  2  teaspoons  mustard  mixed,  add  5  wel'  beaten 
eggs,  2  cups  of  vinegar  (not  strong),  drop  2  tablespoons 
olive  oil  in  the  vinegar.  Stir  all  together  and  boil  until  it 
creams.  Add  a  little  butter.  Pour  over  cabbage  and  beans 
while  dressing  is  hot.    Serve  cold.-      Mrs.  Frances  Willson. 


Vegetable  Salad 

One  box  of  jello,  1^4  cups  boiling  water,  J4  cup  vinegar. 
Let  stand  about  20  minutes.  Chop  and  add  3  sweet  pickles, 
2  stalks  of  celery,  2  green  sweet  peppers,  and  ^  pound  of 
walnuts.    Pour  into  individual  molds  and  let  stand  over  night. 

Mrs.  Marie  Pearson. 


Bean  Salad 

Three  cups  boiled  navy  beans,  3  hard  boiled  eggs,  1  chopped 
onion,  2  slices  of  bacon  cut  in  small  pieces  and  fried  brow^n, 
Yz  teaspoon  dry  mustard,  1  teaspoon  flour,  2  tablespoons 
sugar,  J4  cup  vinegar,  J4  cup  water,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste. 
The  last  6  ingredients  to  be  mixed  together  with  the  bacon 
fat  for  dressing.  Mrs.  B.  Koch. 


Sardine  Salad 

Bone  and  flake  drained  sardines  and  put  in  tissue  paper  until 
the  oil  is  absorbed.  Mix  with  three  times  the  quantity  of 
finely  cut  celery  and  marinate  in  French  dressing.  Drain  and 
serve  on  lettuce  or  cress  with  mayonnaise. 

Lillie  Trodson,  Worthy  Matron. 


LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S.  55 

Shrimp  Salad 

One  can  of  shrimps,  4  medium  sized  potatoes,  1  onion,  1 
cup  of  ripe  oHves,  2  stalks  of  celery,  1  tablespoon  of  chopped 
parsley,  2  hard-boiled  eggs  and  1  cup  of  mayonnaise  dressing. 
Wash  and  dry  the  shrimps.  Boil  the  potatoes  and  when  cold, 
peel  and  cut  into  small  dice.  Dice  the  onion  and  celery,  cut 
the  olives  from  the  stone  and  slice  the  hard-boiled  eggs.  Mix 
the  shrimps  and  the  potatoes  with  the  mayonnaise,  add  the 
onion,  celery  and  olives.  Chill  and  serve,  garnished  with  the 
eggs,  parsley  and  a  few  whole  olives.        Mrs.  D.  Dindinger. 


Strawrberry  Salad 

Part  1 — Six  slices  of  pineapple,  6  slices  of  oranges,  1  pint 
of  sweet  strawberries  and  lettuce  hearts. 

Part  2 — Two  egg  yolks  well  beaten,  J4  teaspoon  salt,  1 
cup  sifted  confectioner's  sugar,  juice  of  1  lemon.  Prepare 
part  2  by  combining  the  ingredients  in  the  order  given.  Place 
the  orange  and  pineapple  in  the  hearts  of  lettuce  with  straw- 
berries on  top.  Pour  over  the  dressing  and  serve  at  once. 
This  is  a  dessert  salad.  Mrs.  Rae  Franknecht. 


Grapefruit  and  Pineapple  Salad 

Peel  and  seed  four  grapefruits  and  take  out  pulp.  Add 
1  can  pineapple  cut  in  small  pieces.  Put  in  dish  and  let  stand 
a  few  minutes,  then  drain  off  all  the  juice.  Serve  on  lettuce 
leaves  with  sauce  made  as  follows: 

Juice  of  the  grapefruit  and  pineapple,  adding  juice  of  one 
small  bottle  of  marschino  cherries,  1  tablespoon  cornstarch, 
1  cup  of  sugar.  Cook  all  together  until  thick,  adding  about 
10c  walnuts  chopped  fine.  Put  cherries  on  top  of  each  plate, 
of  salad.    Very  good.  Julia  Paulson. 


56      LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S. 


Phones,  Irving  666  and  514 

Only  One  Office 


Wm.  E.  Schmidt 

Undertaker 

3960  Elston  Avenue 

Near  Irving  Park  Boulevard 


Lady  Assistant 


LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S.  57 

Beet  Salad 

Mix  2  cups  of  cooked  string  beans  and  a  cup  of  cooked 
kidney  beans  with  4  or  5  diced  cooked  beets.  Serve  on  let- 
tuce with  French  dressing. 

Lillie  Trodson,  Worthy  Matron. 

Chicken  Salad 

One  cold  boiled  chicken,  2  cups  celery,  6  large  olives,  2 
teaspoons  capers.  Mayonnaise  dressing.  Cut  celery  and  chicken 
in  dice.    Mix  well  with  dressing. 

Lillie  Trodson,  Worthy  Matron. 


Salad  Dressing 


Fruit  Salad  Dressing 

Two  eggs  well  beaten,  1  tablespoon  butter,  2  tablespoons 
sugar,  pinch  salt,  ^  teaspoon  mustard,  juice  of  ^  lemon.  Mix 
together  and  bring  to  a  boil  slowly,  stirring  until  it  thickens. 
When  cold  add  Yi  pint  bottle  of  cream,  whipped  until  stiff. 

Olive  Norwood,  Past  Worthy  Matron. 


Salad  Dressing 

One  t^%,  1  teaspoon  butter ;  2  tablespoons  sugar,  1  teaspoon 
prepared  mustard,  1  teaspoon  dry  mustard,  ^  teaspoon  salt 
(scant),  1  cup  vinegar.  Beat  all  together  and  boil  until  thick. 
Thin  with  cream  if  so  desired.  Mrs.  A.  Eggert. 


58      LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S. 

Fruit  Salad  Dressing 

One  tablespoon  sugar,  1  tablespoon  flour,  ^  teaspoon  salt, 
1  tablespoon  butter,  two  eggs  beaten  separately,  •)4  cup  pine- 
apple juice,  juice  of  one  lemon.  Cook  in  double  boiler  and 
beat  well  when  cool.    Add  whipped  cream  just  before  serving. 

Mrs.  Ethel  McKibben. 


Thousand  Island  Dressing 

One  cup  Mayonnaise,  1  tablespoon  Worcestershire  sauce,  Yx 
cup  Chili  sauce.  2  pimentoes,  j^  cup  French  dressing.  Chop 
pimentoes  and  combine  ingredients  just  before  serving. 

Mrs.  Dagmar  Stevens,  Past  Matron  of  Humboldt  Park 
Chapter. 


Boiled  Salad  Dressing- 
Two  teaspoons  sugar,  ^  teaspoon  salt,  ^  teaspoon  mus- 
tard, 2  teaspoons  flour,  2  tablespoons  butter,  1  tgg,  1  cup  milk, 
2  tablespoons  vinegar.  Melt  butter,  add  dry  ingredients,  then 
%  cup  of  the  milk  and  cook  until  creamy,  then  remainder  of 
milk,  add  vinegar  hot  and  stir.  Add  this  mixture  to  slightly 
beaten  tgg,  put  on  stove  again  and  cook  until  creamy. 

Mrs.  Ethel  Forster. 


Salad  Dressing 

One  teacup  vinegar,  1  tablespoon  butter,  2  tablespoons 
sugar,  yolks  of  2  eggs,  ^  teaspoon  mustard  and  ^  teaspoon 
of  salt.  When  vinegar  boils  add  butter,  then  the  sugar,  eggs 
and  mustard  well  beaten  together.  Cook  and  stir  until  smooth. 

Mrs.  Lois  E.  Gray. 


LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S.  59 

Salad  Dressing 

Four  tablespoons  vinegar,  4  tablespoons  sugar,  2  tablespoons 
butter,  2  eggs  well  beaten.  Add  1  cup  whipped  cream  just 
before  serving.  Mrs.  Alice  Morey. 


Roquefort  Cheese  Dressing 

One  tablespoon  cheese,  cream  with  fork,  paprika,  mustard 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  1  teaspoon  sugar,  3  tablespoons  olive 
oil  to  6  tablespoons  vinegar.  Mrs.  Edna  Christiansen. 


Fruit  Salad  Dressing 

One  tablespoon  butter,  2  tablespoons  of  sugar  and  2  table- 
spoons vinegar  and  2  w'ell  beaten  eggs.  Beat  all  together.  Put 
in  double  boiler  and  boil  until  it  thickens.  Stir  all  the  time. 
When  cool  add  J4  pint  of  whipped  cream.    Very  good. 

Mrs.  Emma  Ross. 


French  Dressing 

One-quarter  teaspoon  sugar,  pinch  salt,  pinch  paprika  and 
^  teaspoon  of  mustard.  Mix  well.  Add  7  teaspoons  olive 
oil  and  then  3  tablespoons  vinegar.       Mrs.  Elizabeth  Pool. 


Mayonnaise  Dressing 

One  egg,  yi  teaspoon  salt,  1  teaspoon  mustard,  1  teaspoon 
sugar,  small  pinch  of  pepper.  Beat  thoroughly  when  done, 
keep  adding  Mazola  oil  to  it  until  thick.  Keep  beating  while 
adding  oil,  then  add  1  tablespoon  of  vinegar. 

Mrs.  Edith  Jensen. 


60 


LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S. 


FULLERTON 
P  A  I  IN  ' 

INSURED  FOR  FIVE  YEARS 


THOS.  F.  OTLEY,  Pre*. 


CHICAGO,  ILL. 


SAFETY  AND  SERVICE 

SAFE  because  you  get  a  written  insurance  policy  that  un- 
conditionally guarantees  the  paint  to  give  five  years  of 
service. 

SERVES  because  it  is  composed  of  White  Lead,  Oxide  of 
Zinc  and  a  small  percentage  of  necessary  inert  material, 
triple  ground  in  and  reduced  with  Pure  Linseed  Oil,  Tur- 
pentine and  Oil  Japan.  Tinted  with  the  pure  color  neces- 
sary to  produce  the  various  tints  and  shades. 

Paint  with  Fullerton  and  you  protect  your  home  against 
decay  and  depreciation.  It's  the  "big  gun"  that  guards  your 
home  from  the  effects  of  exposure. 


S1LI\-T0NE 


GEJKUTIF'Ul^^ 


A  washable  wall  finish  that 
can  be  kept  as  clean  and 
sanitary  as  the  dishes  from 
which  you  eat. 


SILK-TONE  "The  Beautiful"  is  an  oil  paint  that  dries  with 
a  dull  finish  and  combines  the  soft,  rich  effect  of  water 
colors  with  the  smooth,  sanitary  surface  of  enamel.  Spong- 
ing removes  grease  and.  ather  marks  and  when  a  change  of 
color  is  desired  it  may  be  fecoated  like  any  other  paint. 

SILK.-TONE;  "The  Beautiful"  has  taken  the  place  of  wall 
paper,  calcimine,  aiid  gloss  paints  because  it  is  more  sani- 
tary, more  durable,  and  more  beautiful. 

Indiana  Indestructible  Paint  G). 

864-872  West  North  Avenue  Chicago,  Illinois 


See  that  your  kitchen  be  clean  and  bright, 
And  your  hands  be  neat  and  skilled; 

For  the  love  of  man  oft  takes  its  flight 
If  his  stomach  be  not  well  filled. 


Oatmeal  Bread 


Four  cups  water,  1  tablespoon  salt,  1  tablespoon  lard,  1  cup 
molasses.  Place  on  fire  and  when  it  begins  to  boil  add  2  cups 
rolled  oats.  Boil  about  3  minutes.  When  cool  add  1  cake 
yeast  dissolved  in  1  cup  lukewarm  water.  Add  2  quarts  (or 
more)  of  wheat  flour.  Stir  thoroughly,  knead,  and  let  rise 
over  night.  Shape  into  loaves,  let  rise  and  bake  one  and  one- 
half  hours.  Mrs.  E.  E.  Hobbs. 


Potato  Raisin  Bread 


One  yeast  cake,  ^  cup  warm  water,  lyi  cup  sweet  milk,  2 
tablespoons  corn  syrup,  1^  cups  mashed  potatoes,  4^  cups 
wheat  or  barley  flour,  4  tablespoons  shortening,  }i  cup  raisins, 
1  teaspoon  salt.  Dissolve  yeast  and  1  tablespoon  corn  syrup 
in  lukewarm  water,  add  1  cupful  flour  and  milk,  the  potatoes, 
shortening  and  corn  syrup  well  creamed.  Cover  and  set  in 
warm  place  to  raise.  When  light,  add  raisins  that  have  been 
well  floured,  and  salt.  Knead  lightly  and  let  rise  again  until 
double  its  bulk.  Mold  into  loaves  and  when  light,  glaze  with 
egg  diluted  with  water  and  bake  about  forty-five  minutes. 

Agnes  Hoyt. 


62  LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S. 

Graham  Bread — Two  Loaves 

Four  cups  of  sour  milk,  1  cup  of  "C"  sugar,  2  tablespoons 
of  melted  lard,  3  even  teaspoons  soda,  salt,  two  cups  of  wheat 
flour,  Graham  flour  to  make  thick  enough  to  drop  from  spoon. 

Mrs.  Phelps. 

Baking  Powder  Whole  Wheat  Bread 

Two  cups  whole  wheat  flour,  1  teaspoon  salt,  1  tablespoon 
sugar,  3  heaping  teaspoons  baking  powder,  1^  cups  sweet 
milk.  Make  into  loaves,  let  stand  ten  minutes.  Bake  forty- 
five  minutes  in  moderate  oven.  Mrs.  James  Stott. 

Nut  Bread 

Three  cups  milk,  2c  yeast,  1  teaspoon  salt.  Add  enough 
flour  to  make  a  soft  batter.  Let  raise  for  one  hour  before 
adding  1  cup  chopped  walnuts,  1  cup  raisins,  ^  cup  butter,  ^ 
cup  sugar.  Add  more  flour  till  the  mixture  is  stiff  enough 
to  handle  on  bread  board  and  knead.  Cover  and  let  rise  till 
it  doubles  its  size.  Divide  into  two  parts  and  shape  into  loaves 
and  let  rise  until  it  again  doubles  its  bulk.  Bake  about  forty- 
five  minutes.  Hannah  Nelson. 


English  Scones 

One  pound  flour,  1  dessert  spoon  butter,  1  teaspoon  soda,  1 
teaspoon  cream  of  tartar,  2  teaspoons  sugar,  milk  to  make  soft 
dough.  Rub  butter  in  dry  ingredients,  add  milk,  remove  to 
bread  board  and  knead  a  little.  Roll  out  about  ^  inch  thick, 
rub  flour  over  and  cut  with  round  cutter.  Put  scones  on  a 
floured  oven  shelf,  brush  them  over  with  milk  and  bake  in  a 
quick  oven  about  ten  minutes.  Mrs.  Joseph  Carter.     . 


LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S.  63 

Nut  Bread 

Two  and  one-half  cups  white  flour,  2^  level  teaspoons  bak- 
ing powder,  ^  cup  sugar,  ^  teaspoon  salt,  %  cup  nuts,  1  tgg 
beaten  light,  and  1  cup  milk.  Sift  together  three  or  four 
times  baking  powder,  sugar,  flour  and  salt.  Add  nuts.  Then 
add  milk  to  the  beaten  Qgg  and  stir  the  liquid  into  the  dry 
ingredients.  Bake  in  a  bread  pan  for  1  hour  in  a  rather  slow 
oven.  Mrs.  Tillie  Buerger. 


Nut  Bread 

Four  cups  flour,  4  teaspoons  baking  powder,  1  tgg,  1  cup 
walnut  meats,  1  cup  sugar,  lyi  cups  milk,  ^  teaspoon  salt. 
Sift  dry  ingredients  together,  beat  tgg,  add  sugar  and  milk. 
Add  nuts  to  dry  ingredients  first.  Mix  well,  let  rise  in  pan 
thirty  minutes.     Bake  in  moderate  oven.         Pearl  Ludolph. 


Steamed  Brown  Bread 

Two  cups  corn  meal,  2  cups  rye  meal,  1  cup  flour,  yi  cup 
molasses,  3  cups  sweet  milk,  1  teaspoon  soda,  1  teaspoon  salt. 
Put  in  small  cans  and  place  in  steamer  or  kettle.  Steam  three 
hours.  Mrs.  Holden. 


Whole  Wheat  Nut  Bread 

Take  about  2  cups  of  sponge  made  for  ordinary  bread  which 
has  been  previously  seasoned  with  salt,  sugar,  shortening, 
yeast,  etc.  Add  ^  cup  walnuts  cut  fine,  then  add  enough 
whole  wheat  flour  to  make  a  stift*  loaf.  Let  rise  and  bake. 
This  makes  one  loaf.  This  recipe  of  Mrs.  Sings  took  the  first 
prize  at  the  whole  wheat  cooking  contest. 

Mrs.  Bessie  Sings. 


64  .    LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S. 

Raisin  Bread 

Sift  4  cups  flour  into  a  basin  with  4  teaspoons  of  baking 
powder,  add  1  cup  raisins,  1  teaspoon  salt,  ^  cup  sugar,  1 
teaspoon  grated  nutmeg,  1  well  beaten  tgg  and  2  cups  milk. 
Mix  well,  turn  into  well-greased  bread  pan  and  let  rise  for 
15  minutes.     Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  one  hour. 

Mrs.  Dindinger. 


Quick  Brown  Bread 

Two  cups  graham  flour,  2  cups  whole  wheat  flour,  1^ 
cups  milk,  yi  cup  brown  sugar,  1  teaspoon  salt,  1^  cups 
raisins,  3  teaspoons  baking  powder,  4  teaspoons  melted  butter. 
Mix  dry  ingredients.  Flour  the  raisins.  Add  butter  and 
milk.  Mix  quickly.  Pour  into  a  well-greased  bread  pan 
and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  Clara  Kistner. 


Nut  Bread 

One  egg,  1  cup  light  brown  sugar,  lj4  cups  sweet  milk,  1 
cup  ground  walnuts,  2  teaspoons  cream  of  tartar,  1  teaspoon 
baking  soda,  1  teaspoon  salt.  Add  to  this  4  cups  of  flour.  Put 
in  two  small  bread  pans.  Let  stand  twenty  minutes  in  a  warm 
place  and  bake  in  a  rather  slow  oven  about  one  hour. 

Lillian  'A.    Scmidt. 


Currant  Bread 

Dissolve  1  cake  of  yeast  in  warm  water,  1^  cups  sugar, 
\y2  cups  currants,  ^  cup  lard  and  butter,  1  teaspoon  salt,  1 
teaspoon  cinnamon,  flour  to  stiffen  as  for  bread.  Let  rise  until 
light,  then  put  in  pan  to  rise  for  half  hour.     Bake  one  hour. 

B.  Rietz. 


LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S.  65 

White  Bread 

Boil  4  small  potatoes.  Drain,  add  about  2  tablespoons  of 
butter  or  shortening  and  mash  or  beat  to  a  cream.  Add  a 
quart  of  warm  water,  sift  2  quarts  of  flour  in  a  large  bowl, 
ridge  flour  on  the  side  of  the  bow4  leaving  a  good  pint  of  flour 
in  center.  Add  a  handful  of  salt,  then  add  potatoes,  butter 
and  warm  water  that  has  been  mixed  together.  .  Mix  a  cake  of 
yeast  in  a  little  warm  water  and  add  to  sponge.  Beat  sponge 
a  little.  Cover  and  let  rise  for  two  hours  or  until  light.  Add 
3  teaspoons  sugar.  Add  a  good  quart  of  flour  or  enough  so 
dough  does  not  stick  to  fingers.  Knead  for  about  fifteen 
minutes.  Set  to  rise  again  until  twice  its  size.  Form  into 
loaves  and  rise  again.    Bake  thirty  to  thirty-five  minutes. 

Lillie  Trodson,  Worthy  Matron. 


Raisin  Bread 

One  cup  raisins,  ^  yeast  cake  dissolved  in  %  cup  water, 
^  cup  sugar,  coffee  cup  water,  1  tgg,  1  tablespoon  butter,  add 
flour  enough  for  stiff*  dough.  Let  rise  twenty  minutes.  Bake 
in  moderate  oven.  Dora  Lund. 


Nut  Bread 

K 

One  tgg,  1  cup  sweet  milk,  1  teaspoon  salt,  ^  cup  sugar,  i^ 
cup  chopped  walnuts,  4  cups  flour,  4  teaspoons  baking  pow- 
der.    Let  rise  twenty  minutes  and  bake  one-half  hour. 

Ada  Pray. 


Graham  Bread 

One  Qgg,  butter  size  of  an  tgg,  ^  cup  brown  sugar  or 
molasses,  1  cup  sour  milk,  %. teaspoon  baking  soda,  1  cup 
white  flour,  1^  cups  graham  flour.  Double  recipe  makes 
3  loaves.  Mrs.  Thomas  Otley.; 


66      LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S. 


Raymond  G.  Kimbell  Lily  M.  Hansen  Edward  H.  Olsen 

President  Cashier  Vif:e-President 


Keep  Your  Family  Checking 
Account  With 


Kimbell  Trust  & 
Savings  Bank 

3538    Fullerton   Avenue 


Organized  as  Raymond  G.  Kimbell  &  Co.  1909 
Incorporated  1919 


GENERAL 
BANKING 

n 


%  on  Savings 
Checking  Accounts  Invited 


Delicate  Rolls 

Part  1 :  One  cup  of  sweet  milk,  2  cups  of  flour,  1  cake  of 
yeast.  Warm  milk,  dissolve  yeast  in  J4  cup  of  water.  Mix 
together.     Let  rise  two  hours. 

Part  2 :  One  cup  sweet  milk,  3^^  cup  lard,  ^  cup  sugar.  Melt 
lard,  add  milk  and  sugar.  Flour  to  make  a  paste,  beaten  whites 
of  2  eggs,  1  tablespoon  salt.  Add  all  to  Part  1.  Add  enough 
flour  to  mold,  not  too  stiff.  Let  rise  until  double  its  size. 
Knead  down,  roll  out  and  cut  with  biscuit  cutter.  Spread 
with  butter  and  fold  over.     Let  rise  and  bake. 

Mrs.  Bessie  Sings. 


Potato  Biscuit 

Three  potatoes  mashed,  1  cup  milk,  1  teaspoon  salt  and  1 
of  lard,  1  tablespoon  butter  and  1  sugar,  2  eggs  well  beaten, 
y2  cake  yeast.  Have  this  lukewarm  and  mix  in  flour  to  make 
as  stiff  as  bread  dough.  If  wanted  for  supper  mix  about  11 
a.  m.  and  let  rise  until  4  p.  m.  Roll  out  about  1  inch  thick, 
cut  with  biscuit  cutter  and  let  rise  again.  When  light,  bake 
in  a  hot  oven  about  ten  minutes.     Serve  hot. 

Mrs.  Anna  Schmidt. 


Muffins 


One  tablespoon  butter,  2  tablespoons  sugar,  1  cup  milk,  Ij^ 
cups  flour,  1  or  2  eggs  and  1  teaspoon  Dr.  Price's  Baking 
Powder.  Miss  Hannah  Schmidt. 


68  LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S. 

Muffins 

-■■  T\vo  cups  flour,  1  tablespoon  lard,  3  teaspoons  Dr.  Price's 
Baking  Powder,  pinch  of  salt,  2  eggs  well  beaten.  Pour  eggs 
in  cup  and  fill  cup  with  milk.  Mrs.  Jennie  Nachtweih. 

Bran  Muffins 

One  egg  well  beaten,  butter  size  of  a  walnut  melted,  1  cup 
sweet  milk,  cup  flour  (wheat),  1  cup  bran  flour,  1  teaspoon 
Dr.  Price's  Baking  Powder  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Makes  deli- 
cious and  light  muffins.  Mrs.  Edith  Jensen. 

Mother's  Swiss  Buns 

Cream  together  1  egg,  2  tablespoons  sugar,  1  tablespoon 
butter,  pinch  of  salt,  1  cup  sweet  milk,  1  teaspoon  soda,  2 
teaspoons  cream  of  tartar,  2  cups  (or  more)  of  flour.  Mix 
to  a  stiff  dough,  roll,  cut,  and  bake.  Mrs.  King. 

Corn  Bread  or  Muffins 

Cream  1  tablespoon  butter  and  ^  cup  of  sugar.  Add  yolks 
of  2  eggs,  1  cup  of  milk,  1  teaspoon  salt  (scant),  1  cup  corn 
meal,  1  cup  white  flour  and  2  teaspoons  Dr.  Price's  Baking 
Powder.     Add  the  beaten  whites  of  eggs  last. 

Mrs.  Betsy  Whitely. 

Graham  Muffins 

Three  tablespoons  sugar,  1  large  tablespoon  butter,  1  tgg^ 
pinch  of  salt,  }i  cup  milk,  1^  cups  graham  flour,  yi  cup  white 
flour,  and  2  teaspoons  Dr.  Price's  Baking  Powder. 

Mrs.  Elizabeth  Pool. 


LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S.  69 

Whipped  Biscuits 

Two  large  potatoes  cooked  and  mashed,  1  pint  potato  water, 
1  pint  milk  (scalded),  1  cup  butter,  y^  ^^P  sugar,  1  teaspoon 
salt,  3  eggs,  cake  yeast.  Mix  together  and  add  flour  to  make 
a  soft  sponge.  When  light  add  flour  and  mix  the  same  as 
bread  and  let  rise.  Then  roll  into  long  finger  rolls  and  let 
rise  twice  their  size  and  bake.    Olive  Norwood,  Past  Matron. 

Three  Day  Biscuits 

One-half  yeast  cake,  ^  pint  warm  water,  ^  tablespoon 
sugar,  y2  teaspoon  salt,  flour  to  make  stiff  batter.  Let  rise 
till  morning.  Boil  Yz  pint  milk  and  melt  Yz  cup  lard  in  milk. 
Let  cool,  add  yeast  batter,  1  ^gg  and  ^  cup  sugar.  Stir  until 
hard  to  handle,  then  knead  eight  minutes.  This  dough  will 
keep  three  days  in  a  cool  place.  Make  biscuits  as  one  wants 
them.  Mrs.  C.  A.  Anderson. 

Potato  Flour  Muffins 

Four  eggs,  pinch  of  salt,  ^4  cup  white  potato  flour,  1  tea- 
spoon baking  powder,  2  tablespoons  ice  water,  1  tablespoon 
sugar.  Method :  Beat  w^hites  of  eggs  very  stiff  and  dry.  Add 
salt  and  sugar  to  beaten  yolks  and  fold  into  whites.  Sift  flour 
and  baking  powder  twice  and  thoroughly  beat  into  ^gg  mix- 
ture. Add  ice  water  last.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  from 
fifteen  to  twenty  minutes.  Miss  Edgar. 

Soft  Ginger  Bread 

One-half  cup  butter  or  lard,  ^  cup  sugar,  1  cup  molasses, 
1  teaspoon  of  ginger,  1  teaspoon  cinnamon,  1  teaspoon  cloves, 

1  teaspoon  soda  in  a  cup  of  boiling  water,  2^^  cups  flour.    Add 

2  eggs  well  beaten  last  before  baking.  A  Friend. 


70      LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S. 

Delicious  Quick  Rolls 

One-half  pint  warm  milk,  1  tablespoon  butter,  1  tablespoon 
lard,  1  tablespoon  sugar,  1  egg  well  beaten,  1  cake  compressed 
yeast,  ^  teaspoon  salt,  flour,  3^  cup  lukewarm  water.  Heat 
milk  until  it  steams,  then  add  sugar,  butter  and  lard.  Dis- 
solve yeast  cake  in  the  water.  When  the  milk  is  cooled  suffi- 
ciently, add  the  yeast  and  tgg.  Beat  the  mixture  well.  Stir 
in  sufficient  flour  to  make  a  dough  which  can  be  rolled  out, 
add  the  salt  and  beat  again.  Cover  and  put  in  a  warm  place 
for  two  or  three  hours,  until  it  has  risen  and  is  very  light. 
Roll  out  and  cut  with  a  small  biscuit  cutter.  Butter  the  tops 
and  lay  one  on  top  of  another.  Let  stand  in  a  warm  place 
for  another  hour,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  for  fifteen  or 
twenty  minutes.  Mrs.  Mary  Hollison,  Ben  Hur  Chapter. 


Ginger  Bread 

One-half  cup  New  Orleans  molasses,  yi  cup  sugar,  I/3  cup 
milk,  %  cup  butter,  1  egg,  y^  teaspoon  of  soda  dissolved  in 
the  molasses,  1  teaspoon  ginger,  1  scant  teaspoon  salt,  2  cups 
flour.  Beat  all  together  thoroughly,  bake  in  flat  pan  and  cut 
with  heated  knife.  Clara   Kistner. 


Ginger  Bread 

One  cup  molasses,  ^  cup  brown  sugar,  1  cup  sour  milk, 
}i  cup  lard,  3  eggs,  1  tablespoon  soda  (scant),  allspice  and 
ginger  to  taste,  2  cups  flour.  Mrs.  Elizabeth  Cramer. 


LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S.      71 


PRINTING 


Pu  blications 
Catalogues 
Com  mercial 
Book  Work 


ED  J.  NICKERSON 

Phone  Wabash  6429 

54-2  So.  Dearborn  Street 

Chicago 


72      LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S. 


Established  20  Years  Always  Reliable 

Telephone  Armitage  2929 

Louis  P.  Mann 

Cloaks  and 
Suits 

LATEST  STYLES  OF  DRESSES 


!#/ 


1258  Milwaukee  Avenue 

Near  Ashland  Avenue 


Coffee  Cakes 


Quick  Coffee  Cake 

One-half  cup  butter  and  a  little  lard,  1  cup  sugar,  2  eggs, 
lj4  cups  milk,  %  cup  raisins,  3  cups  flour,  2  teaspoons  baking 
powder,  vanilla  or  nutmeg  for  flavoring. 

Heaping  tablespoon  butter,  ^  cup  sugar,  %  cup  flour,  1 
teaspoon  cinnamon.  Work  between  fingers  and  sprinkle  oven 
top  of  cakes.     This  will  make  two  coffee  cakes. 

Miss  Emma  Boettcher. 


Coffee  Cake 

Two  cups  flour,  y^  teaspoon  salt,  4  tablespoons  sugar,  2 
tablespoons  baking  powder,  2  tablespoons  melted  butter,  y^ 
cup  milk  (a  good  half),  and  1  tgg.     Bake  35  minutes. 

Mrs.  J.  W.  Thomas. 


Coffee  Cake  With  Baking  Powder 

Three  cups  flour,  j^  teaspoon  salt,  3  tablespoons  sugar,  2^ 
teaspoons  baking  powder,  2  tablespoons  butter  or  lard,  2  eggs, 
%  cup  of  milk.  Mix  all  ingredients  together.  Bake  in  a  mod- 
erate oven.  Mrs.  S.  Schmidt. 


Coffee  Cake 

Two  cups  flour,  1  cup  sugar,  1  tablespoon  butter.  Mix  in- 
gredients like  you  would  make  pie  crust.  Take  %  cup  of  this 
mixture  for  top  of  cake.  Add  to  mixture  above:  1  egg,  2  tea- 
spoons baking  powder,  ^.  cup  milk.  Bake  15  or  20  minutes 
in  quick  oven.  Mrs.  Ida  Hawkins. 


74  LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S. 

Blitz  Kucken 

One  tablespoon  butter,  1  cup  sugar,  1  egg,  1  cup  milk,  1 
heaping  cup  flour,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder.  Mix  well. 
Pour  in  pan  and  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  cinnamon  on  top. 
Nuts  may  be  added.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  fifteen  min- 
utes. Mrs.  Tillie  Buerger. 

Coffee  Cake 

One  cup  sugar,  1  tablespoon  butter,  1  egg^  1  cup  milk,  21/^ 
cups  flour,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  salt.  Cover  with  sugar 
and  cinnamon.     Bake  in  a  slow  oven.  Florence  Larsen. 

Quick  Coffee  Cake 

One  piece  of  butter  size  of  a  large  egg,  ^  cup  sugar,  2  eggs 
(drop  in  one  at  a  time),  J4  cup  milk,  lj4  cups  of  sifted  flour, 
1  teaspoon  Dr.  Price's  Baking  Powder  sifted  in  flour.  Pour 
in  pan  and  sprinkle  3  teaspoons  of  sugar  mixed  with  yi  tea- 
spoon of  cinnamon  over  the  top  of  cake.  Bake  about  twelve 
to  fifteen  minutes.  Lillie  Trodson,  Worthy  Matron. 

Sour  Cream  CofFee  Cake  . 

Two  cups  flour,  1  tablespoon  Dr.  Price's  Baking  Powder, 
1  tablespoon  each  of  lard  and  butter.  Thin  with  milk  so  you 
can  roll  easily  about  yi  inch  thick.  Put  in  coffee  cake  pan. 
Make  a  custard  of  Ij^  cups  sweet  milk  and  butter  size  of 
walnut.  Thicken  with  Ij^  tablespoons  of  cornstarch.  After 
this  has  cooked  let  cool.  Add  2  eggs  beaten,  sugar  to  taste 
and  lyz  bottles  of  sour  cream.  Beat  this  together  well. 
Spread  a  quart  can  of  strained,  home  made  canned  cherries 
and  pour  custard  over  the  cherries.    Bake  in  slow  oven. 

Lillie  Trodson,  Worthy  Matron. 


LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S.  75 

Coffee  Cake 

Three  cups  flour  (sifted),  1  cup  warm  milk,  3  tablespoons 
sugar,  1  cake  yeast  dissolved  in  milk.  Make  a  sponge  and  set 
in  warm  (not  hot)  place  to  rise.  Add  1  teaspoon  salt,  2  beaten 
eggs,  3  tablespoons  soft  shortening  and  let  rise  again.  Put 
in  pans,  let  rise  third  time  and  put  bits  of  butter  on  top. 
Sprinkle  with  sugar  and  cinnamon  and  bake  in  quick  oven. 

Mrs.  LeGros. 

Coffee  Cake 

Two  eggs,  U/8  cups  sugar,  3  cups  flour,  3  level  teaspoons 
baking  powder,  1  cup  milk,  ^  cup  butter,  pinch  of  salt  and  1 
teaspoon  almond  extract.  Mrs.  Jennie  Nachtweih. 


76      LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S. 


An  organization  with  higher 
ideals  in  the  coal  business.  Our 
rapid  growth  has  been  due  to 


Honest  W^eight 
Service 
Quality 


n 


Max  Tauber  Sons  Corp. 

Main  Office  and  Rail  Yards: 

FuUerton  and  Crawford  Avenues 

Phone  Belmont  480 


Pineapple  Pie 

Stir  \y2  cups  of  sugar,  2  tablespoons  of  flour,  butter  size  of 
an  egg  together.  Add  1  cup  of  boiling  water  and  cook  until 
it  thickens.  When  cool  add  1  can  shredded  pineapple  and  3 
eggs.    Bake  with  an  upper  crust.  Mrs.  Rose  Thorndike. 

Mock  Mincemeat 

Eight  pounds  of  green  tomatoes  (chopped),  8  pounds  of 
apples,  4  pounds  of  sugar,  3  pounds  of  seedless  raisins,  1  cup 
butter  and  suet  (or  suet  alone),  1  level  tablespoon  salt,  1  of 
ground  cloves,  2  of  cinnamon,  1  teaspoon  allspice,  and  1  cup 
of  vinegar.  Let  chopped  tomatoes  stand  over  night,  drain, 
add  sugar,  and  cook  one  and  one-half  hours.  Cook  raisins 
separately  in  a  little  water.     Mix  all  together,  boil  and  can. 

Mrs.  Anna  Nelson. 

Green  Tomato  Mincemeat 

One  peck  green  tomatoes  chopped  fine,  retaining  the  juice,  2 
tablespoons  salt,  1^  cups  of  vinegar.  Boil  together  2  hours 
then  add  5  pounds 'brown  sugar,  1  pound  raisins,  1  pound 
currants,  1  tablespoon  cloves,  1  tablespoon  cinnamon.  Let 
come  to  a  boil  and  put  in  jars  while  hot.  Add  a  bowl  'of 
chopped  apples  when  ready  to  make  pies. 

Mrs.  Wilhelmina  Albrecht. 


Banana  Pie 

Make  a  crust  and  bake.  Slice  3  bananas  to  fill  crust,  then 
add  custard  as  follows:  One  cup  milk,  yolk  of  2  eggs,  yi  cup 
sugar,  pinch  salt,  3  tablespoons  flour.  Boil  until  thick  enough. 
Pour  over  bananas.  Beat  whites  of  eggs  until  light.  Cover 
custard  and  put  in  oven  to  brown.  Bertha  Hofif. 


7^  LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S. 

Pumpkin  Pie 

One  quart  pumpkin,  1  quart  milk,  4  eggs,  1  teaspoon  ginger, 
1  teaspoon  nutmeg,  1  teaspoon  cinnamon,  1  cup  sugar.  Enough 
for  three  pies.  Ethel  Forster. 

Lemon  Cream  Pie 

Into  a  cup  of  boiling  water  stir  a  heaping  tablespoon  of 
cornstarch  dissolved  in  a  gill  of  cold  water.  Stir  until  smooth, 
take  from  fire  and  pour  over  a  tablespoon  of  butter  and  a  cup 
of  powdered  sugar  that  has  been  rubbed  to  a  cream.  Mix 
thoroughly  and  set  aside  until  cool.  Add  the  grated  rind  and 
juice  of  a  large  lemon  and  yolk  of  two  eggs  beaten  light. 
Pour  the  mixture  into  a  pan  lined  with  pastry  and  bake  until 
set. .  Make  a  meringue  of  the  whites  of  the  eggs  whipped  stiff 
with  two  tablespoons  of  powdered  sugar.  Spread  this  thickly 
on  pie  and  brown.  »  Clara  Kistner. 

Lemon  Cream  Pie 

Filling:  One  cup  w^ater,  1  tablespoon  cornstarch,  1  cup 
sugar  and  three  lemons.  Boil  together  and  add  3  eggs  and  1 
large  teaspoon  of  butter.  Crust:  1  cup  flour,  2  tablespoons 
lard,  3  tablespoons  cold  water.  Mrs.  Elizabeth  Thomas. 

Pieplant  Meringue  Pie 

One-half  pieplant,  1  heaping  teaspoon  Kingsford  corn- 
starch, 2  eggs,  1  cup  sugar,  1  tablespoon  butter,  pie  shell 
(already  baked).  Mix  cornstarch,  yolk  of  eggs  and  butter. 
Stir  mixture  into  boiling  pieplant;  turn  into  pie  crust.  Add 
meringue  made  of  whites  of  eggs  and  2  tablespoons  sugar. 
Brown  in  oven.    Serve  cold. 

Lillie  Trodson,  Worthy  Matron. 


LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S.  79 

Raisin  Pie  Filling 

One  pound  seeded  raisins,  1  quart  water,  1  cup  molasses,  1 
teaspoon   of   cloves,   cinnamon,   and   Yi    teaspoon   of   salt,    1 ' 
heaping  tablespoon  butter.     Boil   together   until   raisins   are 
plump,  then  add  enough  flour  to  thicken. 

Mrs.  Thomas  Otley. 

Butterscotch  Pie 

One  cup  brown  sugar,  1  cup  water.  Boil  to  a  syrup.  When 
cold  add  1^4  cups  milk,  yolk  of  1  ^gg,  1  heaping  tablespoon 
flour,  pinch  of  salt.  Cook  in  double  boiler.  When  cool  pour 
into  baked  crust.  Whip  white  of  tgg  with  2  tablespoons  of 
sugar.    Spread  on  pie  and  brown.  Ada  G.  Pray. 

Chocolate  Pie 

One  cup  of  rich  milk,  1  cup  sugar,  2  tablespoons  grated 
chocolate,  yolks  of  3  eggs.  Heat  chocolate  and  milk  together, 
add  sugar  and  eggs  beaten  to  a  cream.  Flavor  with  vanilla. 
Bake  with  under  crust.  Spread  with  a  meringue  of  the  whites 
of  the  eggs.  Mrs.  Henry  Cordes. 

Lemon  Cream  Pie 

One  and  one-half  cups  water,  Xy^  cups  sugar,  pinch  salt,  2 
heaping  tablespoons  cornstarch,  2  eggs,  juice  and  grated  rind 
of  1  lemon,  2  tablespoons  powdered  sugar  for  meringue.  Boil 
the  water  and  sugar,  add  the  cornstarch  moistened  with  a 
little  cold  water  and  cook  5  minutes.  Then  put  in  the  beaten 
yolks,  lemon  juice,  rind  and  salt.  Cool  slightly  and  pour  into 
a  previously  baked  crust.  Cover  with  a  meringue  made  by 
beating  the  whites  of  the  eggs  with  powdered  sugar.  Set  in 
oven  till  brown.  ,      Mrs.  Elizabeth  Pool. 


80.  LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S.     * 

Raisin  Pie 

• 

One  cup  seeded  raisins,  one  cup  sugar,  one  cup  sour  cream 
(or  milk),  yolk  of  two  eggs,  ^  cup  walnut  meats,  1  tablespoon 
.vanilla,  pinch  of  salt.  Chop  raisins  and  nuts,  stir  all  together, 
put  in  an  unbaked  crust  and  bake  about  twenty  minutes. 
Whip  the  whites  of  eggs  with  two  tablespoons  powdered 
sugar.     Spread  on  pie  and  brown.  *       Bella  Bawden. 


Mincemeat 

Twelve  apples  chopped,  2  pounds  lean  beef  cooked  and 
chopped,  1  pound  of  currants,  1  pound  of  raisins,  1  pound 
of  sugar,  Yz  pound  orange  peel  cut  small,  1  nutmeg,  1  tea- 
spoon each  of  allspice  and  cinnamon,  ^  teaspoon  cloves, 
grated  rind  and  juice  of  1  lemon  and  1  quart  of  boiled  cider. 
Add  more  cider  if  too  dry.     Cook  until  well  heated  through. 

Mrs.  Thomas  Otley. 


Prune  Pie 

One-half  pound  prunes,  ^  cup  sugar  (scant),  1  tablespoon 
lemon  juice,  Yz  teaspoon  butter,  1  tablespoon  flour.  Remove 
stones  from  cooked  prunes,  cut  in  pieces,  and  mix  with  sugar 
and  lemon  juice.  Reduce  juice  to  1^  tablespoons.  Place 
in  crust,  dot  with  butter,  sprinkle  with  flour,  and  bake  with 
upper  crust  in  a  moderate  oven.  Jennie  Yerger. 


Date  Pie 

J^wo  cups  milk,  %  pound  dates,  2  eggs,  ^  t^poon  salt, 
few  gratings  nutmeg.  Cook  dates  with  milk  twenty  minutes 
in  double  boiler.  Strain  and  rub  through  sieve,  then  add  eggs 
and  salt.     Bake  same  as  custard  pie.  Mrs.  LaMoine. 


LOGAN  SQUAkE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S.  81 

Custard  Pie 

Beat  yolks  of  3  eggs  to  a  cream.  Stir  together  1  tablespoon 
of  sifted  flour  and  3  tablespoons  of  sugar  and  add  to  the  yolks. 
Add  a  pinch  of  salt,  a  teaspoon  of  vanilla,  and  a  little  grated 
nutmeg.  Add  the  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs,  and  lastly  a  pint 
of  scalded  milk  (not  boiled)  which  has  been  cooled.  Mix 
together  and  bake  in  deep  pie  tin  lined  with  crust.  Bake  about 
half  hour.  Mary  Blohm. 

^  Butterscotch  Pie 

Two  cups  milk,  1  cup  brown  sugar,  2  eggs,  2  tablespoons 

cornstarch,  butter  size  of  a  walnut.     Beat  the  yolks  of  eggs, 

add  the  sugar,  cornstarch  and  butter.     Add  tb- boiling  milk 

and  cook  until  thick.    Pour  into  baked  crust.  Make  a  meringue 

\  of  the  whites  of  eggs^and  spread  on  top.  LiUie  Zoelck. 


\ 


S 

Pumpkin  Pie 


One  anck  one-half  cu()s  steamed  and  strained  pumpkin,  % 
cup  brown  sugar,  1  teaspoon  cinnamon,  ^  teaspoon  ginger,  ^ 
teaspoon  salt,  2  eggs,  lj4  cups  milk  and  ^^  cup  cream.  Mix 
ingredients  in-order  given  and  bake  in  one  crust. 

_  .  I  Mrs.  Laura  Shadle. 

Apple  Pie  '      . 

Four  or  five  sour  apples,  %  cup  sugar,  ^  teaspoon  grated 
nutmeg,  I/3  teaspoon  salt,  1  teaspoon  butter,  1  teaspoon  lemon 
juice.  Line  pan  with  paste.  ^  Cut  apples  and  fill  pan.  Mix 
sugar,  nutmeg,  salt,  lemon  juice  and  sprinkle  over  apples.  Dot 
with  butter.  Wet  edge  of  under  crust.  Cover  with  upper 
crust  and  bake  foity-five  minutes  in  moderate  oven. 

'       •*^•'-^t^^;..   .     ^:-'  Mrs.  Laura  Shadle. 

^    "^  Cream  Pie  1 

Bake  crust.  gFill  with  whipped  cream  flavored. 

Carrie  Yerger^^-^ 


82      LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S. 


THE  beautiful  women  of  An- 
cient Egypt  were  well  versed 
in  toilet  arts,  but  they  knew 
that   radiant   cleanliness   was    the 
crowning  art  of  all. 

They  chose  Palm  and  Olive  Oils 
their  most  important  toilet  re- 
quirements. 

Modern  women,  equally  fastidious, 
also  are  lavish  in  the  daily  use  of 
these  great  natural  cleansers. 

Their  combination  in  famous 
Palmolive  produces  the  most  popu- 
lar toilet  soap  measured  by  sales 
volume. 

Palmolive  Soap  is  sold  by  dealers 
everywhere  and  supplied  by  popu- 
lar hotels  in  guest-room  size. 

THE  PALMOLIVE  COMPANY 

Milwaukee,  U.  S.  A. 


CHICAGO    BRANCH 

190  No.  State  Street 


Puddings 

"Your  dressing,  dancing,  gadding,  where's  the  good  in? 
Sweet  lady,  tell  me,  can  you  make  a  pudding?" 

Brown  Betty 

Pare  and  core  1  dozen  large  juicy  apples,  chop  fine.  Butter 
a  deep  pudding  dish,  place  first  a  layer  of  chopped  apples,  some 
bits  of  butter  over  them,  then  sprinkle  with  white  sugar  and 
grate  a  little  nutmeg  over  it,  next  a  layer  of  bread  crumbs  and 
chopped  walnuts,  then  a  layer  of  apples  and  so  on  until  the 
dish  is  full.  Finish  with  a  layer  of  bread  crumbs.  Bake  in 
oven  until  thoroughly  cooked.     Serve  with  cream  sauce. 

A  Friend. 

Pudding 

One  tgg,  2  tablespoons  cream  or  milk,  1  cup  or  less  of  sugar, 
1  teaspoon  baking  powder,  1  cup  chopped  walnuts  (not  too 
fine),  1  cup  bread  crusts  cut  in  pieces.  First  beat  the  tgg  and 
1  teaspoon  baking  powder,  then  add  the  sugar,  bread  crusts. 
When  well  mixed  add  nuts,  dates  and  lastly  cream.  (This 
does  not  raise  very  much).  Bake  in  a  greased  and  floured 
pan  in  a  moderate  oven  until  firm,  about  thirty-five  minutes. 
Serve  with  whipped  cream.  Mrs.  Edith  Jensen. 

Date  Pudding 

Three  eggs,  1  cup  sugar,  3  tablespoons  flour,  1  cup  chopped 
walnuts,  1  cup  chopped  dates,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder.  Beat 
yolks,  add  sugar,  then  flour  and  baking  powder.  Fold  in  the 
beaten  whites  of  eggs.  Add  floured  dates  and  nuts.  Bake 
twenty  to  thirty  minutes  in  a  slow  oven.     Serve  with  cream. 

Mrs.  Victoria  Peters. 


84      LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S. 

Rice  Pudding 

One-half  cup  raisins,  l/;»  cup  rice,  3  cups  milk,  1  cup  water, 
2  eggs,  ^  cup  sugar.  Put  rice  in  double  boiler  with  water, 
cook  till  water  is  absorbed,  add  2  cups  of  milk,  cook  till  rice 
is  tender.  To  remaining  cup  of  milk  add  sugar,  flavoring, 
and  well  beaten  eggs,  add  to  rice  and  bake  until  custard  is  set. 

Mrs.  Holmes. 


Tapioca  Cream 

Put  1  cup  of  tapioca  in  1  quart  of  milk  in  a  double  boiler 
with  a  little  salt;  let  boil  about  15  minutes.  Then  add  the 
yolks  of  2  eggs  and  1  cup  of  sugar  beaten  together.  Stir  well. 
Boil  15  minutes,  remove  from  fire,  beat  in  the  whites  and 
flavor.  Mrs.  Veda  Torgerson. 


Lemon  Pudding 

One  and  one-half  cups  of  water,  1  }4  cups  of  sugar,  3  table- 
spoons cornstarch  dissolved  in  cold  water.  Pour  into  boiling 
water;  cook  five  minutes.  Beat  whites  of  3  eggs,  stir  into 
the  cornstarch,  add  juice  of  2  large  lemons.  Pour  into  molds 
and  serve  with  soft  custard.  Mrs.  Bert  Hutchinson. 


Strawberry  Jelly 

Three  pints  ripe  strawberries,  a  box  of  gelatine,  1  pint  of 
sugar,  Yz  pint  of  cold  water,  1  pint  of  boiling  water,  and  the 
juice  of  1  lemon.  Mash  the  berries  in  the  sugar,  let  stand  2 
hours.  Cover  the  gelatine  wath  the  cold  water,  soak  for 
one-half  hour,  add  the  boiling  water  and  pour  this  over  the 
fruit  and  sugar,  add  the  lemon  juice  and  strain  through  a 
cloth.  Pour  into  glasses  to  cool.  Top  with  whipped  cream 
and  strawberries.  Mrs.  Anna  Shaberg,  Past  Matron. 


LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S.  85 

Date  Pudding 

One  cup  sugar,  2  eggs,  1  cup  dates,  1  cup  walnuts,  3  level 
tkblespoons  flour,  2  tablespoons  water,  1  teaspoon  Dr.  Price's 
Baking  Powder,  pinch  of  salt.  Beat  yolks  of  eggs  well,  add 
sugar,  then  beaten  whites,  adding  nuts,  dates,  water,  flour, 
salt  and  baking  powder  last.  Do  not  stir  more  than  neces- 
sary.    Bake  twenty  minutes.     Serve  with  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  Barbara  Eckstedt. 

Suet  Pudding 

One  cup  chopped  suet,  1  cup  New  Orleans  molasses,  1  Qgg, 
1  cup  boiling  w^ater  poured  over  suet,  1  cup  raisins,  2  teaspoons 
baking  powder.  Put  ^  teaspoon  soda  in  the  molasses ;  3  cups 
flour".    Steam  three  hours.  Mrs.  Phelps. 


Chocolate  Pudding 

Boil  4  oz.  of  chocolate  in  1  quart  sweet  milk.  When  quite 
dissolved,  pour  over  1  pint  bread  crumbs  and  let  stand  for  1 
-hour.  Mash  bread  until  it  becomes  smooth.  Add  4  well- 
beaten  eggs,  yi  cup  butter,  2  cups  sugar,  a  little  grated  nut- 
meg,  1  cup  raisins,   1  cup  currants.     Steam  1  hour. 

:  Mrs.  Phelps. 


Christmas  Pudding 

Sift  and  mix  with  lyi  pounds  of  flour  3  teaspoons  baking 
powder.  Chop  fine  1  pound  suet  and  mix  with  it  10  well- 
beaten  eggs,  1  teacup  of  milk,  }^  pound  sugar,  1  pound  of 
raisins  (seeded  and  chopped),  1  pound  currants,  1  teaspoon 
each"  of  cinnamon,  allspice  and  ground  cloves,  the  grated  rind 
and  juice  of  a  lemon  and  2  ounces  of  chopped  citron.  Boil 
five  hours.  '  Mrs.  Elizabeth  Cordes. 


86  LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S. 

Prune  Pudding 

One  pound  cooked  prunes  (chopped  fine),  whites  of  4  eggs 
beaten  stiff,  1  cup  powdered  sugar.  Put  sugar  with  eggs,  add 
prunes  and  a  few  nuts.  Do  not  bake.  Serve  with  whipped 
cream.  Mrs.  D.  Dindinger. 

Snow  Balls 

One-half  cup  butter,  1  cup  sugar,  ^  cup  milk,  2^  cups  flour, 
whites  of  4  eggs,  3^4  level  teaspoons  baking  powder.  Cream 
butter  and  sugar,  add  milk,  then  flour  sifted  with  baking  pow- 
der, whites  of  eggs  last.  Steam  in  individual  cups  (not  too 
full)  for  35  minutes.  Serve  with  mashed  strawberries  and 
cream.  Mrs.  Bessie  Sings. 

Date  Custard 

Ten  cents  worth  almond  macaroons,   10c  worth  of  dates. 

Crush  macaroons.    Cut  up  dates.    Put  in  buttered  baking  dish. 

Cover  with  the  following  mixture:  Beat  2  eggs,  2  cups  milk, 

J4  cup  sugar,  2  tablespoons  cornstarch.     Flavor  with  vanilla 

and  bake  until  set.  Mrs.  Marion  Krueger. 

Bread  Pudding 

Two  cups  stale  bread  crumbs,  2  tablespoons  butter,  1  cup 
hot  water,  1  cup  raisins  in  J4  cup  flour,  1  cup  molasses,  1 
egg  beaten  well,  1  cup  flour,  ^  teaspoon  cinnamon,  ^  tea- 
spoon cloves,  J4  teaspoon  salt,  1  teaspoon  soda  sifted  with 
flour.  Mix  bread  crumbs,  molasses  and  raisins  with  %  cup  of 
flour  then  the  eggs  well  beaten.  Melt  the  butter  in  the  hot 
water  and  add.  Sift  the  spices,  salt,  soda  with  flour  and  beat 
thoroughly.  Steam  one  hour  and  serve  hot.  Steam  with  low 
gas.  Mrs.  Marie  Wilhelmy. 


LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S.  87 

Date  Pudding 

Three  tablespoons  flour,  3  eggs,  1  very  scant  cup  of  sugar, 

1  pound  of  dates  cut  up  fine,  1  cup  of  nut  meats  cut  fine,  1  tea- 
spoon Dr.  Price's  Baking  Powder,  1  teaspoon  vanilla.  Mix 
beaten  yolks  and  sugar,  add  sifted  flour,  dates,  nuts,  *  then 
baking  powder,  whites  of  eggs  beaten  very  stiff  last.  Bake 
one-half  hour  or  more  in  a  slow  oven.  Serve  cold  with 
whipped  cream.  Franc  Watson. 

Prune  Pudding 

One  cup  chopped  pork,  1  cup  chopped  raisins,  1  cup  molasses, 

2  cups  sweet  milk,  1  teaspoon  soda,  4  cups  flour.  Steam  4 
hours.    Serve  with  sugar  and  cream.    Mrs.  Rose  Thorndike. 

Suet  Pudding 

Two-thirds  cup  chopped  suet,  1  cup  sugar,  1  egg  (beaten),  1 
teaspoon  cinnamon,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder  mixed  with  the 
flour,  ^  cup  cold  water,  1  cup  raisins  chopped,  2  cups  flour, 
pinch  salt.  Mix  in  order  given.  Steam  2  hours.  Good  and 
ine:??pensive.  Mrs.  Bessie  Sings. 

A  Delicious  Pudding 

One  quart  of  milk,  3  eggs,  1  cup  sugar,  2  tablespoons  corn- 
starch, 1  teaspoon  vanilla  extract  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Sep- 
arate the  eggs,  beat  the  yolks,  add  the  milk,  sugar  and  corn- 
starch which  has  been  wet  with  2  tablespoons  cold  water.  Boil 
for  a  minute,  stirring  constantly.  Take  from  the  fire,  add  the 
vanilla  and  salt.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth, 
beat  3  teaspoons  of  sugar  into  them  and  fold  in  the  hot  mix- 
ture.    Serve  very  cold  with  plain  or  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  D.  Dindinger. 


B8 


LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S. 


"A  Treat  Indeed" 


1901-192S  Webster  Avenue 

Phones  Armitage  2747-8 


A  few  places  around  Logan  Square  where  they  serve 

CHAPELL'S 
Quality  Ice  Cream 

John  Levy,  Druggist 
Graves*  Nut  Shop 
Stine's  Drug  Store 
Jacobs'  Drug  Store 
Huebner's  Drug  Store 


Special  Ice  Cream  and  Ices  for  Social  Gather- 
ings, Weddings,  Receptions,  Etc.  deliv- 
ered to  your  door 


LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S.  89 

Prune  Pudding 

One-half  cup  butter,  1  cup  sugar,  2  eggs  (beaten),  1  cup 
cooked  prunes  (chopped),  Yz  cup  sweet  milk,  Yz  cup  sour 
milk  with  1  teaspoon  soda  (scant),  2  cups  flour  with  1  tea- 
spoon baking  powder,  1  cup  chopped  nuts.  Bake  in  muffin  tins 
and  serve  with  whipped  cream.  Mrs.  Laura  Swanson.  ' 

Cocoa  Pudding 

1  tablespoon  Bunte's  cocoa,  1  tablespoon  flour,  1  cup  sugar, 
1  pint  milk,  1  ^gg,  butter  size  of  walnut.  Mix  flour,  cocoa, 
and  sugar,  then  add  milk.  After  it  has  boiled  about  twenty 
minutes  add  butter  and  beaten  t-gg.     Serve  with  cream. 

Mrs.  Victoria  Peters. 

A 
\  Spice  Pudding 

One  cup  brown  sugar,  1  cup  butter,  L  egg,  l;cup  milk,  3 

•cups  flour,  1  teaspoon  soda,  1  teaspoon  cinnarnoti,  .1  teaspoon 

cloves,  Yi  teaspoon  allspice,  pinch  of  salt.    Add  nuts  or  raisins. 

Mix  dry  ingredients  together,  then  add  milk.-    Steam  3  hours. 

Mr^.;  Harriet  Huehl. 

Lemon  Pudding 

Juice  and  grated  rind  of  1  lemon,  2  ^gg,  1  cup  sugar,  -l 
cup  cold  water,  6  tablespoons  cornstarch,  4  tablespoons 
powdered  sugar,  3  cups  boiling  water,  1  tablespoon  mar- 
garine. Mix  lemon  juice  and  grated  rind,  tgg  yolks,  sugar, 
cornstarch  and  cold  water.  Have  ready  Mri  the  double  boiler 
the  boiling  w^ater,  into  which  stir  this  mixture,  and  cook  until 
thick  and  free  from  any  raw  taste.  Turn  out  into  glass  bowl, 
and  when  cold,  frost  with  a  meringue  made  of  the  whites 
of  the  eggs  beaten  stiff  with  powdered  sugar. 

Euphemia  M.  Hocker. 


90      LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S. 


Totally 
DtfferentI 


The 

Bountiful 

Breakfast 


What  23  Children  Said 

THIS  test  was  made  in  Denver , Colorado. 
Twenty-three  children  sat  around  the 
table.  Four  dishes  of  steaming  rolled  oats 
In  front  of  each, —  one  of  Purity,  the 
other  three  of  different  brands. 

The  children  were  asked  to  point  out  the 
dish  which  tasted  best.  By  means  of  secret 
markings  on  the  various  dishes, — the  count 
showed  that  19  of  the  23  chose  Purity. 

Purity  turns  the  good  old  breakfast  cereal  into 
a  brand  new  delight.  Mothers,  make  this  test 
yourselves.  Let  the  fresh,  unspoiled  tastes  of 
your  children  decide  which  is  the  best  rolled 
oats. 

• 

Purity  Oats  Co. 

Keokuk  and  Davenport,  Iowa 


DESSHRTS 


^fRfe  /Tn>A  "^      ybk      g^ 

lMm!iLfMJn   Jim    <i^^ 


Orange  Triffle 

One-half  package  gelatine  soaked  in  ^  cup  of  cold  water 
twenty  minutes  or  until  soft.  Then  add  1  cup  boiling  water, 
add  juice  of  5  or  6  oranges,  the  grated  rind  of  one,  the  juice 
of  J/2  lemon.  Then  strain.  Beat  3  yolks  of  eggs,  cook  until 
it  begins  to  thicken  and  add  1  cup  sugar.  Pour  into  first  part. 
Set  on  ice  until  thick.  Add  1  pint  of  whipped  cream.  Line 
mould  with  sections  of  oranges  or  cake. 

Lillie  Trodson,  Worthy  Matron. 


Maple  Moss 

Six  yolks  of  eggs  beaten  very  light,  1  ^  cups  maple  syrup, 
1  pint  of  whipping  cream.  Add  maple  syrup  to  yolks  and 
beat  one  minute.  Cook  in  double  boiler  until  thick.  Then  add 
whipping  cream  and  freeze.    Lillie  Trodson,  Worthy  Matron. 


Quick  Carmel  Pudding 

Two  cups  water,  2  cups  brown  sugar,  2  tablespoons  corn- 
starch, butter  size  of  a  walnut,  1  teaspoon  vanilla.  Boil  sugar, 
butter  and  water  together  for  five  minutes.  Thicken  with 
dissolved  cornstarch,  add  flavoring  and  pour  in  mould.  Serve 
with  either  plain  or  whipped  cream. 

Gertrude  BergsHen,  Past  Matron. 


92      LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S. 

V 

Carrot  Pudding 

One  cup  carrots  (grated),  1  cup  brown  sugar,  1  cup  butter 
(scant),  1  €Up  flour,  1  lemon  (grated)  and  juice,  1  teaspoon 
soda,  'mace  and  cinnariion,  1  cup  grated  potatoes.  Cream 
butter  and  sugar  together.  Add  carrots,  potatoes  and  lemons. 
Then  add  soda,  dissolved  in  a  little  warm  water..  Add  flour, 
spices  and  about  a  handful  of  raisins  and  steam  three  hours. 

Sauce 

Beat  2  eggs  until  light,  add  1  cup  sugar  and  beat  to  a  cream. 
Flavor  with  vanilla.     Add  1  cup  of  whipped  cream. 

Lillie  Trodson,  Worthy  Matron. 

'  Chocolate  Ice  Cream 

One  quart  cream,  1  pint  milk,  ^  pound  sugar,  2  eggs,  5 
tablespoons  grated  chocolate.  Scald  milk  and  add  sugar  and 
eggs  beaten  together  and  the  chocolate  rubbed  srhooth '  in  a 
little  riiilk.  Beat  well  and  stir  over  a  fire  till  it  thickens.  When 
cool  add  cream  and  freeze.  Mrs.  Sophia  Bankson. 

Fruit  Sherbert 

Boil  4  cups  of  water  and  2  cups  of  sugar  till  sugar  is  dis- 
solved. Mix  together  1  pint  can  of  pineapple,  juice  of  3 
oranges' and  3  lemons,  3  or  4  bananas  cut  fine,  and  add  to 
cooled  water  and  sugar.  Beat  whites  of  2  eggs  stifif  and  stir 
in  last.    Freeze.    This  makes  two  quarts.  Mrs.  Chas.  Kurth. 

Ice  Cream 

Two  quarts  of  cream,  4  eggs,  except  whites  of  two,  which 
are  to  be  well  beaten  and  added  last.  Two  teaspoons  vanilla, 
1  cup  sugar,  1  teaspoon  cornstarch  dissolved  in  milk;  a  pinch 
of  salt.  "Freeze.  -     '  '     -      < .  Lillian  Yerger. 


LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S,  93 

Caramel  Custard 

One  cup  light  brown  sugar,  1  pint  milk,  1  heaping  table- 
spoon cornstarch,  1  tgg,  1  teaspoon  vanilla,  ^2  cup  shelled 
and  chopped  nuts.  Put  milk  in  double  boiler  and  scald.  Melt 
sugaf^ver  fire,  stirring  constantly,  then  add  to  hot  milk, 
^^^hen  thoroughly  dissolved,  add  the  cornstarch,  dissolved  in  a 
little  cold  milk  or  water.  Add  beaten  eggs  and  nuts  and  lastly 
the  vanilla.     Serve  very  cold  with  whipped  cream. 

Lillie  Trodson,  Worthy  Matron. 


Orange  Ice  ' 

Make  a  syrup  of  1  quart  of  water  and  1  pint  of  sugar. 
Boil  15  minutes  and  add  1  pint  orange  juice,"  ^  pint  lemon 
juice,  grated  rind  of  orange  and  1  lemon.  Freeze.  Will  serve 
12  people.  Mrs.  Alice  Morey. 


Apricot  Whip 

Stew  1  cup  of  dried  apricots  until  soft,  rub  through  a  col- 
ander, add  1  bottle  of  cream  (whipped),  and  sugar  to  taste. 
Whip  again  and  serve.  Mrs.  Eunice  Ferren. 


Fruit  Cocktail 

Remove  pulp  from  grape  fruit,  and  mix  with  shredded  pine- 
apple, bananas  cut  in  slices  and  quartered,  strawberries  cut  in 
halves,  using  half  as  much  pineapple  and  bananas  as  grape 
fruit  and  allowing  4  strawberries  to  each  served.  There 
should  be  2  cups  of  fruit.  Pour  over  a  dressing  made  of  !/;» 
cup  Sherry  wine,  3  tablespoons  apricot  brandy,  ^  cup  sugar, 
and;  a  pinch  of  salt.  Chill  thoroughly.  Serve  in  cocktail 
glasses^  garnished,  with  candied  cherries.  Lillian  Yerger. 


94      LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S. 

Pineapple  Dessert 

White  of  1  egg  beaten  stiff,  add  1  cup  powdered  sugar,  1 
bottle  whipped  cream,  1  pint  can  grated  pineapple.  Put  in  a 
can  tightly  covered,  pack  with  rock  salt  and  ice  and  let  stand 
to  freeze  for  4  hours.  Boil  juice  of  pineapple  with  a  big  ^ 
cup  of  sugar  to  a  syrup.     When  cold,  serve  over  dessert. 

Mrs.  Thomas  Otley, 

Fruit  Dessert 

One  envelope  of  Knox  gelatine,  1  pound  of  dried  apricots, 
1  quart  of  water.  Soak  gelatine  in  ^  cup  of  water,  boil  apri- 
cots until  soft,  add  enough  sugar  to  sweeten,  put  through  a 
coarse  strainer,  add  gelatine,  stir  well  until  dissolved.  When 
cool,  add  sliced  bananas  and  serve  with  whipped  cream. 

Helen  Samlow. 


Trilby  Cream 

One  box  of  marshmallows,  1  can  of  pineapple,  yi  pint 
cream,  chopped  walnuts.  Cut  marshmallows  in  four  parts  and 
let  soak  three  hours  in  half  of  the  cream.  Cut  pineapple  and 
let  drain.  Beat  cream  and  marshmallows,  then  add  nuts  and 
pineapple.  Set  in  sherbet  glasses.  Whip  remaining  cream 
and  place  on  top  with  cherries.  Mrs.  Elizabeth  Pool. 


Bavarian  Cream 

Beat  to  a  cream  yolks  of  4  eggs,  ^  cup  of  sugar,  pinch 
of  salt.  Add  1  pint  milk  and  boil  to  a  custard  in  a  double 
boiler.  Pour  this  over  %  package  of  gelatine  which  has 
been  soaked  in  sherry  wine  or  vanilla  and  water  as  desired. 
Just  before  it  sets,  add  from  1  to  2  bottles  of  whipped  cream, 
according  to  quantity  desired.  Mrs.  Geo.  Fristoe. 


LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S.  95 

Ice-Box  Cake 

One  and  one-half  dozen  lady  fingers,  8  ounces  of  chocolate, 
2  tablespoons  hot  water,  4  eggs,  ^^  pint  whipping  cream.  Line 
pan  with  oiled  paper  to  lift  cake  out  of  pan.  Split  lady  fin- 
gers, melt  chocolate  over  hot  water,  mix  the  hot  water  with 
it,  add  yolks  unbeaten  one  at  a  time,  then  add  beaten  whites. 
Lay  in  layers  of  lady  fingers  and  mixture.  When  cold,  cut 
like  brick  ice  cream  and  serve  with  cream. 

Mrs.  Ermime  Ball. 

Farina  Tort 

Beat  the  yolks  of  6  eggs  one-half  hour.  Then  add  Ij^ 
cups  of  powdered  sugar,  J4  pounds  chopped  walnuts,  1^  cups 
of  farina,  Yi  teaspoon  of  Dr.  Price's  Baking  Powder  and  the 
beaten  whites  of  5  eggs.  Bake  in  2  deep  pans,  split  cakes  and 
put  whipped  cream  between  and  on  top. 

Mrs.  L.  A.  Pegelow. 

Marshmallow  Cream 

One  bottle  whipping  cream,  1  box  marshmallows,  1  table- 
spoon of  sugar.  Cut  marshmallows  in  pieces,  whip  into  the 
cream,  and  add  1  cup  of  nuts.     Serves  5  people. 

-  Mrs.  Bert  Hutchinson. 

Pineapple  Whip 

One-half  cup  of  tapioca  or  rice,  1  pint  of  shredded  pine- 
apple, whites  of  2  eggs,  J^  teaspoon  vanilla.  Drain  the  juice 
from  the  pineapple.  If  not  2  cups,  add  water  to  make  2  cups. 
Cook  rice  in  pineapple  juice  one  hour  (use  double  boiler), 
then  add  the  pineapple  and  cook  for  two  minutes.  Take  from 
fire  and  add  the  beaten  whites  of  eggs  and  vanilla. 

Mrs.  Martha  Donovan,  Past  Matron. 


96  LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S. 

Maple  Cream 

Three-quarter  tablespoon  gelatine,  yolks  of  2  eggs,  3  table- 
spoons cold  water,  Yz  cup  maple  syrup,  ^4  cup  walnuts,  1  cup 
whipping  cream.  Soften  gelatine  in  cold  water  and  dissolve 
over  hot  water.  Beat  the  yolks  of  eggs  and  add  heated 
syrup.  Cook  in  double  boiler  until  thick,  add  gelatine  and 
strain.  Add  chopped  nuts,  cool,  fold  in  whipped  cream  and 
set  aside  until  firm.  Miss  Pearl  Ludolph. 

Apricot  Sponge 


One-half  pound  evaporated  apricots,  juice  of  1  lemon,  1^4 
cups  sugar,  ^  ounce  of  gelatine,  whites  of  4  eggs.  Soak 
apricots  for  several  hours,  then  cook  until  tender.  Pour  ^ 
cup  of  cold  water  over  the  gelatine  and  let  soak  one-half  hour. 
Drain  the  apricots,  save  the  liquid,  and  press  the  fruit  through 
a  sieve.  Add  enough  liquid  to  pulp  to  make  2  cups.  Stir 
the  gelatine  and  sugar  together  over  hot  water  until  dissolved, 
add  it  to  pulp  and  stand  in  a  cool  place,  stir  occasionally  until 
somewhat  stiffened.  Beat  whites  of  eggs  and  add,  also  the 
lemon  juice;  beat  entire  mixture  until  foamy  and  stiff  enough 
to  retain  its  shape.  Turn  into  a  mould  and  place  on  ice  for 
several  hours.     Serve  with  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  Carrie  F.  Olsen. 


Maple  Dessert 

One  teaspoon  gelatine,  j^  cup  maple  syrup,  yolks  of  2  eggs 
(beaten),  ^  pint  of  whipped  cream,  whites  of  2  eggs.  Melt 
gelatine  in  about  2  tablespoons  of  boiling  water,  add  maple 
syrup  and  beaten  ^g%  yolks,  cook  slowly  three  minutes  and 
while  cooking  beat  cream  and  whites  of  eggs.  Add  to  cooled 
mixture  and  beat.  Add  nuts  if  desired,  set  aside  to  stiffen. 
Molds  perfectly.     Serve  with  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  Agnes  M.  Johansen. 


LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S.  97 

Date  Torte 

Five  yolks  of  eggs,  ^  pound  powdered  sugar,  1  cup  chopped 
dates,  y2  pounds  walnuts  (chopped),  5  large  tablespoons  grated 
white  bread  crumbs,  2  teaspoons  Dr.  Price's  Baking  Powder 
^^^^ifted  in  crumbs.  Beat  eggs  separately,  yolks  and  whites. 
Add  whites  folded  in  last.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  Serve 
with  whipped  cream.     Bake  the  day  before  serving. 

Mrs.  Grace  Bradway. 

Date  Torte 

One  package  dates,  ^  cup  walnuts  (chopped),  2  eggs,  ^ 
cup  sugar,  2  tablespoons  flour,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder. 
Beat  ^gg'^  thoroughly,  add  sugar  and  beat.  Add  chopped  and 
stoned  walnuts,  dates,  and  lastly  flour  and  baking  powder 
sifted  together.  Bake  slowly  in  greased  shallow  tin  and  serve 
cold  with  whipped  cream. 

Gertrude  Bergslien,  Past  Matron. 


C'-' 


98 


LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S. 


DUTCH 
PROCESS 


COCOA 


For  All  Purposes 

BUNTE'S  COCOA  takes  the  place  of  choco- 
late. Chocolate  has  to  be  grated,  BUNTE'S 
COCOA  comes  ready  for  use.  It  dissolves  in- 
stantly. Cook  with'^BUNTE'S,  bake  with  it, 
drink  it  yourself  and  give  it  to  the  children 
every  day. 

BAKE  A  BUNTE  COCOA  CAKE 


1      Egg 
lYz  Cups  Flour 
^  Teaspoon  Soda 

^  Teaspoon  Baking 
Powder 


2  Tablespoons  Bunte 
Cocoa 
1/3  Cup  Melted  Butter 
1  Teaspoon  Vanilla 
1  Cup  Sugar 
1  Cup  Sour  Milk 


I 


Beat  ^g^  until  light.  Gradually  add  sugar, 
then  add  melted  shortening  (butter)  and  sour 
milk  in  which  the  soda  has  been  dissolved. 
Sift  flour,  cocoa  and  baking  powder.  Add 
vanilla,  pour  into  three  small  layer  cake  pans 
and  bake  in  moderate  oven  about  25  minutes. 
Never  use  chocolate — use  BUNTE  COCOA 
instead. 

BUNTE  BROTHERS 

CHICAGO 

Makers  of  the  famous  BUNTE  CANDIES  and  COUGH  DROPS 


My  mission  in  life  is  a  sweet  one,  I  claim, 

For  the  children's  eyes  brighten  at  hearing  my  name. 


Turkish  Candy 

Two  pounds  of  sugar,  1  pound  of  glucose,  ^^  pound  almonds 
(or  nuts  of  any  kind)  chopped,  ^  cup  water,  whites  of  two 
eggs  beaten,  teaspoon  vanilla.  Boil  sugar,  glucose  and  water 
together  until  brittle  when  dropped  in  cold  water,  remove 
from  fire  and  add  slow^ly  the  w^hites  of  eggs,  nuts  and  vanilla. 
Stir  until  very  thick  and  white.  Pour  into  mold  and  when 
cold  cut  in  slices.  Lottie  Holmes. 


Sea  Foam 

Three  cups  sugar,  J^  cup  syrup,  %  cup  water,  whites  of 
2  eggs,  1  cup  nut  meats,  Yz  teaspoon  salt.  Boil  sugar,  syrup, 
and  w^ater  until  it  forms  a  soft  ball  when  tested  in  cold  water. 
Add  the  salt  to  the  whites  of  eggs  and  beat  until  stiff,  then 
pour  the  cooked  mixture  gradually  on  the  beaten  whites.  Beat 
until  it  is  almost  stiff  enough  to  hold  its  shape  then  drop  by 
teaspoon  on  buttered  pan  about  Yx  inch  apart. 

Miss  Grace  Pearson. 


Cracker  Jack 

One  cup  molasses,  2  cups  sugar,  1  tablespoon  butter,  2 
tablespoons  vinegar.  Boil  until  it  cracks  in  cold  water.  Then 
take  from  fire,  add  ^  teaspoon  baking  soda.  Beat  briskly 
and  pour  over  popcorn  and  chopped  peanuts,  or  over  pop- 
corn alone.  Lillie  Trodson,  Worthy  Matron. 


100  LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S. 

Lemon  Drops 

One  cup  sugar,  ^  cup  glucose  or  white  Karo  syrup,  ^  cup 
water,  ^  teaspoon  tartaric  acid,  ^  teaspoon  lemon  extract, 
few  drops  of  coloring.  Boil  sugar,  glucose,  and  water  until 
it  breaks  like  glass  in  cold  water.  Pour  on  an  oiled  plate  and 
sprinkle  immediately  with  tartaric  acid,  extract  and  coloring. 
Stir  rapidly.  Pour  on  a  well  oiled  tin  and  press  with  hands. 
Mark  in  squares.  Margaret  L.  de.Flon. 

Cream  Candy 

Two  cups  granulated  sugar,  2  tablespoons  cider  vinegar,  2 
tablespoons  hot  water,  butter  size  of  walnut.  Stir  until  sugar 
is  dissolved,  then  boil,  without  stirring,  until  it  hardens  in 
cold  water.  Pour  in  a  buttered  pan,  pour  a  tablespoon  of 
vanilla  over  the  candy  and  when  cool  enough  pull  until  white. 

Mrs.  A.  E.  Arnold. 


Sugarless  Sweets 

One  cup  stoned  dates,  one  cup  raisins,  one  cup  nut  meats, 
pinch  of  salt.  Run  through  food  chopper,  form  into  balls. 
Dip  in  cocoanut  or  melted  chocolate.  If  too  dry  moisten  with 
a  little  vanilla.  Emma  Boettcher. 


Marshmallow  Fudge 

Two  cups  granulated  sugar,  1  cup  milk  or  cream,  2  table- 
spoons Bunte's  cocoa  melted  in  a  little  of  the  milk.  Boil 
until  it  forms  a  soft  ball  when  dropped  in  cold  water.  Re- 
move from  fire  and  beat  in  Yz  pound  of  marshmallows  until 
dissolved.  Add  Y\  cup  nut-meats  and  small  package  of  cocoa- 
nut.     Pour  on  buttered  plate  and  cut  in  squares. 

Emma  Schuster. 


LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S.  101 

Peanut  Brittle 

One  cup  granulated  sugar,  ^  cup  shelled  peanuts.     Place 
peanuts  on  greased  tin,  one  thickness  only.     Melt  sugar  in 
"skillet,  stirring  constantly  until  amber  color.     Pour  over  pea- 
nuts beginning  from  outside.  Margaret  L.  de  Flon. 


Opera  Caramels 

Two  cups  of  sugar,  J4  cup  milk  or  cream,  one  teaspoon 
butter,  1  teaspoon  vanilla,  ^  cup  glucose  improves  this  im- 
mensely. Boil  sugar,  glucose,  and  milk  until  it  forms  soft 
ball  when  dropped  in  cold  water.  Stir  constantly.  Remove 
from  fire,  add  butter  and  vanilla.  Set  in  a  pan  of  cold  water, 
gently  remove  from  bottom  of  pan,  beat  well  and  as  it  starts 
to  turn  to  sugar,  add  a  little  water  and  beat  or  knead  with 
hands.    Pour  in  a  greased  tin  and  cut  in  squares. 

.  Margaret  L.  de  Flon. 


Browm  Sugar  Fudge 

Three  cups  brown  sugar  boiled  with  1  cup  of  milk  or  cream 
until  a  soft  ball  is  formed  in  cold  water;  add  butter  size  of 
walnut  and  1  cup  of  chopped  nuts.  Flavor  to  taste.  Take 
from  fire,  beat  and  pour  on  buttered  plate.     Cut  in  squares. 

Mary  Bradley. 


Cocoanut  Cream  Candy 

Two  cups  granulated  sugar,  %  cup  milk,  1  teaspoon  butter. 
Boil  together  until  mixture  forms  a  soft  ball  in  cold  water. 
Remove  from  fire  and  allow  to  cool.  When  cold  beat  until 
creamy  and  add  ^  cup  of  dried  cocoanut  and  Yz  teaspoon  of 
vanilla.     Pour  into  a  buttered  pan  and  cut  into  squares. 

Rose  Zoelck. 


102  LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S. 

Chocolate  Fudge 

Three  cups  granulated  sugar,  2  squares  Baker's  bitter  choco- 
late, lj4  cups  milk.  Boil  sugar  and  milk  slowly,  add  chocolate 
when  it  begins  to  boil.  Boil  until  it  forms  a  soft  ball  when 
tested  in  cold  water,  add  piece  of  butter  and  turn  on  marble 
slab  until  it  crumbs,  then  knead  with  hands  and  lay  on  oiled 
paper.  Pearl  Ludolph. 

Sweets  for  Kiddies 

One  cup  raisins,  1  cup  dates,  1  cup  figs,  1  cup  prunes,  1 
cup  nut-meats.  Put  nuts  through  food  chopper  first,  and  then 
pass  all  through  chopper  twice.  Press  into  small  cakes  and 
wrap  in  oiled  paper.  Mrs.  H.  H.  Whiteley. 


Maple  Creams 

One  and  one-half  cups  maple  syrup,  2  tablespoons  glucose. 
Boil  until  it  forms  a  soft  ball.  Beat  until  creamy,  add  nuts. 
Form  into  loaf  and  slice  before  cold.     Margaret  de  Flon. 


Fig  Fudge 

One  cup  milk,  2  cups  sugar,  1  tablespoon  butter.     Boil  until 
it  forms  a  soft  ball.     Let  cool.     Chop  figs  fine,  add  and  beat. 

Margaret  de  Flon. 


Apple  Taffy 

Three  cups  brown  sugar,  ^  cup  water,  2  tablespoons  butter, 
pinch  of  salt,  yi  teaspoon  soda.     Boil  until  hard  in  water. 

Laura  Swanson. 


LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S.  103 

Cocoa  Marshmallow  Fudge 

Two  cups  sugar,  1  cup  milk,  2  tablespoons  syrup,  butter 
size  of  walnut,  two  tablespoons  of  Bunte's  cocoa.  Boil  until 
it  forms  a  soft  ball  when  dropped  into  cold  water.  Add  thirty 
marshmallows  (cut  up)  just  before  taking  from  fire.  Beat 
well,  pour  in  buttered  tins  and  cut  in  squares.  The  syrup 
need  not  be  added  but  it  gives  a  creamy  smoothness  to  it. 

Lizzie  Hutchinson.  -. 


Chocolate  Loaf  Candy 

Four  cups  granulated  sugar,  1  heaping  tablespoon  butter, 
1^  cups  sweet  cream,  1  ounce  of  chocolate  (dissolved  in -a 
little  warm  water),  1  tablespoon  glucose  (can  be  omitted). 
Place  over  fire  and  stir  until  it  begins  to  boil.  Do  not  3:tir 
after  it  boils.  Cook  until  it  forms  a  soft  ball  when  dropped  in 
cold  water.  Pour  on  buttered  platter  to  cool.  Do  not  scrape 
kettle.  When  cool  work  into  heap  with  wooden  spoon  <^r 
paddle,  add  1  tablespoon  vanilla,  stir  until  the  whole  m£ss 
grains.  Cover  with  damp  cloth  and  let  set  one-half  hour,  thtb 
with  the  hands  work  it  until  soft  and  smooth,; add  lyi  cilj^s 
nut  meats,  shape  into  loaf  and  slice.    .      Mrs.  F.  E,:  Cooley>  ( 


Allegrette 

H 
Two  cups  granulated  sugar,   yi   cup  milk,  about   ^   cate 

Baker's    bitter    chocolate.      Cook    sugar    and    milk    together 

slowly  until  it  forms  a  soft  ball  in  cold  water.     Then  b6at 

until  hard  enough  to  roll  in  balls  about  the  size  of  a  hickoi^ 

nut.     Place  these  on  a  buttered  platter  and  let  cool.     Stea6i 

chocolate  over  teakettle  until  soft.    Use  small  fork  for  dipping 

fondant  in  chocolate.     Then  place  each  one  on  oiled  papef. 

Lhjpp  y2  walnut  on  top  of  each  candy  before  chocolate  -dries. 


104     LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S. 

Every  Woman 
Knows 

—that  Dr.  Price's  Cream  Baking 
Powder  makes  delicious,  appetizing 
food — unquestionably  wholesome. 

Some  women,  however,  do  not 
know  that  food  made  with  cheaper 
baking  powders,  containing  alum  and 
phosphate  compounds,  is  often  in- 
ferior in  taste  and  texture; — many 
of  the  highest  food  authorities  have 
declared  alum  baking  powders  to  be 
unwhole;3ome  and  injurious. 

The  safe  and  sure  way  is  to  use 

Dr.  PRICE'S 

CREAM 

Baking  Powder 

Made  from  Cream  of  Tartar 
derived  from  grapes 

Contains  No  Alum — 

Leaves  No  Bitter  Taste 


Cake  is  to  the  appetite  what  mirth  is  to  the  melancholy. 

Spice  Cake 

One  cup  sugar,  1  tablespoon  butter,  3  eggs,  1  cup  milk,  2 
cups  flour,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  1  teaspoon  cloves,  1 
teaspoon  cinnamon,  1  teaspoon  allspice.  Use  method  for 
ordinary  cake.  Elizabeth  Pool. 


Orange  Torte 

Two  cups  sugar,  5  eggs,  save  white  of  one  for  frosting, 
1  orange  rind  and  juice,  J4  cup  cold  water,  Ij^  teaspoons 
baking  powder,  2  cups  flour.     Bake  forty-five  minutes. 

Frosting — White  of  1  egg,  6  tablespoons  pulverized  sugar, 
rind  and  juice  of  1  orange.  Barbara  Eckstedt. 


Blitz  Kuchen 


No.  1 — One-half  cup  sugar,  ^  cup  butter,  4  eggs  (yolks), 
4  tablespoons  milk,  1  cup  flour,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 
No.  2 — Four  eggs  (whites)  beaten  stiff,  1  cup  sugar,  va- 
nilla. Mix  batter  No.  1  in  order  given,  put  in  two  cake  tins, 
and  spread  No.  2  (white)  over  each,  then  sprinkle  chopped 
nuts  over  this  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Filling — One  and  one-half  cups  water,  2  teaspoons  corn- 
starch, 1  egg,  }i  cup  sugar,  little  vanilla.  Boil  the  above  until 
it  thickens.  Olga  Barthel. 


106     LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S. 

Three  Minute  Cake 

One  and  one-third  cups  brown  sugar,  I/3  cup  soft  butter, 
2  eggs,  y2  cup  milk,  U/^  cups  flour,  3  level  teaspoons  baking 
powder,  1  package  stoned  dates,  ^  cup  chopped  waliluts.    Put 
all  together  in  a  bowl  and  beat  three  minutes.     Bake  in  a" 
loaf.  Mrs.  Ida  Haussen,  Past  Matron. 


Affinity  Cake 

One-third  cup  of  butter,  1  cup  of  light  brown-sugar,  1  cup 
of  milk,  2  cups  of  flour,  2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  2 
eggs,  1  teaspoon  vanilla,  1  cup  chopped  walnuts.  Frosting- 
Boil  a  few  minutes  2  cups  light  brown  sugar,  3  tablespoons 
water.  Beat  whites  of  eggs  and  then  beat  syrup  and  whites 
together.     Excellent.  Mrs.  Conrad  Giese. 


Weary  Willie's  Cake 

Whites  of  2  eggs  in  a  cup,  add  melted  butter  until  cup  is 
half  full,  then  sweet  milk  to  fill  cup.  One  and  one-half  cups 
of  flour,  pinch  of  salt,  2  teaspoons  of  Dr.  Price's  baking 
powder,  1  cup  sugar.  Mix  liquid  and  dry  ingredients.  Add 
flavoring.  Mrs.  Ida  Haussen,  Past  Matron. 


Layer  Cake  With  Orange  Filling 

Yolks  of  4  eggs  well  beaten.  Add  4  tablespoons  water,  1 
cup  sugar  and  keep  beating.  Then  add  gradually  1  cup  flour 
and  1^  tablespoons  cornstarch  with  1  teaspoon  baking  pow- 
der, and  last  add  the  whites  of  4  eggs  well  beaten.  Flavor  to 
suit.  Orange  Filling — One  cup  powdered  sugar,  piece  of  but- 
ter the  size  of  a  walnut,  ^  orange  and  about  J4  lemon  juice. 
Stir  all  together  and  add  more  sugar  until  thick  enough  to 
spread  between  layers  and  on  top.  Julia  Paulson. 


LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S.  107 

Christmas  Fruit  Cake 


Two  pounds  flour  browned  evenly,  1  pound  butter,  2  pounds 
raisins,  seeded,  1  pound  currants,  2  pounds  brown  sugar,  ^i 
cup  New, Orleans  molasses,  10  eggs,  ^  pound  each  of  ""figs^ 
citron,  orange  and  lemon  peel  chopped  fine,  1  package  dates,  1; 
pound  nut  meats,  2  small  nutmegs,  grated,  2  teaspoons  each 
of  cinnamon  and  allspice,  1  teaspoon  ginger,  1  pint  sour  milk 
with  2  small  teaspoons  soda,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder4 
ghake  the  fruit  with  flour  before  adding  it.  Bake  two  hours 
)n  slow  oven.     This  makes  four  loaves.  ■ 

•  Mrs.  Elizabeth  Degen. 


'<i. 


Chocolate  Cake  j 

i 

■      '    -        "  --^^  •  I 

Three  squares  Baker's  sweet  chocolate,  3  tablespoons  sugar ^^ 
1  tablespoon  flour,  ^4  ^^^P  water,  I/3  cup  milk.  Codk  all  to- 
gether, stirring  constantly  until  smooth  and  thick.  Then  put 
•it  away  to  cool  for  remainder  of  cake  as  follows :  One-quarter* 
cup  butter,  1  cup  granulated  sugar,  %  cup  milk,  2  eggs,  2  cupst 
Swans  Down  cake  flour,  2  teaspoons  Dr.  Price's  baking  pow- 
der, ^  teaspoon  vanilla.  Bake  in  three  layers.  Filling— - 
Two  dn^  one-half  cups  confectioners'  sugar,  y^  cup  butter, 
J4  bottle  of  cream,  1  tablespoon  of  vanilla.  ; 

Lillie  Trodson,  Worthy  Matron. 


\  Never  Fail  Sponge  Cake 

Yolks  of  4  e^gs,  beaten  ten  minutes.  Sift  1  cup  of  sugar; 
add  gradually  to  yolks  and  beat.  Four  tablespoons  boiling 
water,  pinch  of  salt,  1  cup  flour,  sifted  five  times,  1  teaspoon 
vanilla.  Beat  whites  of  4  eggs  a  little,  then  add  J4  teaspoon- 
cream  of  tarter  and  beat  until  dry ;  fold  whites  in  last.  Bake 
in  a  Van  Deusen's  cake  tin  fifty  or  sixty  minutes.  Light  oven 
Svhen  ready  to  place  cake  in  oven  and  gradually  add  heat. 

Mrs.  Lillian  Schmidt. 


108 


LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S. 


A  Sure  Recipe  for 

GOOD  CLOTHES 

It  has  never  failed  in  over  26  years 

"Buy  Them  at  a  Klee  Store*' 


KLEE  BROS.  &  CO. 

Two  Stores: 

Milwaukee  and  Ashland  Aves. 

Belmont  and  Lincoln  Aves. 


We  Guarantee  All  Work  First  Class 

SHERMAN 
Button  Co. 

Cloth  Covered  Buttons, 
Hemstitching,  Embroid- 
ering and  Braiding 


TELEPHONE 
Belmont4034 


3133  Logan  Boulevard 
CHICAGO 


Phone  Albany  2704 

PUBLIC 

Cleaner  &  Dyer 
TAILORING 

OF  ALL  KINDS 


2645  North  Kedzie  Ave. 

Near  Milwaukee  Avenue 

CHICAGO 


LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S.  109 

Devils  Food  Cake 


P^rt  1 — One-half  cup  sugar,  J^  cup  milk,  1  egg,  2  squares 
chocolate.  Beat  and  boil  together  and  let  cool.  Part  2 — One- 
half  cup  butter,  1  cup  sugar,  ^^  cup  milk,  2  eggs,  1  teaspoon 
vanilla,  1  teaspoon  baking  soda,  1%  cups  flour.    Mix  together. 

Mrs.  Daisy  lUingsworth. 


Jiffy  Strawberry  Short  Cake 

Two  cups  flour  with  2  teaspoons  Dr.  Price's  baking  powder 
and  Yz  teaspoon  salt.  Add  1  cup  milk,  stir  well  and  spread 
over  pan  with  spoon.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven,  then  split  in  two, 
spread  each  side  with  butter  and  spread  the  strawberries  which 
have  been  crushed  in  sugar  to  taste,  between. 

Olive  Burnett. 


Potato  Cake 

One  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar,  ^  cup  butter,  4  eggs,  2 
squares  of  chocolate,  1  cup  boiled  potatoes  mashed,  1  cup 
blanched  almonds  chopped,  1  teaspoon  cinnamon  and  cloves, 
l^  cups  flour,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Mrs.  Ida  Hawkins. 


Eggless,  Milkless,  Butterless  Cake 

Put  into  a  saucepan  the  following  and  boil  three  minutes: 
One  cup  brown  sugar  (or  granulated),  1  cup  water,  1  cup 
seeded  raisins,  I/3  cup  lard,  ^  teaspoon  grated  nutmeg,  1  tea- 
spoon cinnamon,  1  teaspoon  cloves,  3^  teaspoon  salt.  When 
cold  stir  in  one  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  a  little  warrrt 
water,  then  add  2  cups  flour  in  which  J^  teaspoon  baking 
powder  has  been  sifted.     Bake  in  loaf  in  slow  oven. 

Clara  Luthardt. 


110  LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S. 

Cocoa  Cake 

Yolk  of  1  tgg.  3  tablespoons  Bunte's  cocoa,  Yz  cup  water. 
Cook  until  thick.  When  cool  add  butter  size  of  an  egg.  One 
cup  sugar,  yi  cup  sour  milk,  1  teaspoon  soda,  lyi  cups  flour, 
vanilla  flavoring.  Mrs.  C.  A.  Anderson.  • 

Spice  Cake 

One-half  cup  butter,  1  cup  sugar,  3  eggs,  1  teaspoon  cinna- 
mon, 1  teaspoon  cloves,  1  glass  jelly  (dark),  1  cup  sour  milk, 

2  cups  flour,  1  teaspoon  baking  soda. 

Mrs.  Jennie  Nachtweih. 

Bride's  Cake 

Cream  together  1  cup  of  butter,  3  cups  sugar.  Add  the 
beaten  whites  of  12  eggs.  Sift  3  teaspoons  baking  powder 
w^ith  1  cup  of  cornstarch.  Mix  with  3  cups  sifted  flour,  add- 
ing gradually,  then  beat  well  and  bake  in  buttered  tin,  lined 
with  paper.  Mrs.  W.  Mosel,  Blue  Island,  111. 

Graham  Cracker  Cake 

Yolks  of  6  eggs  and  1  cup  sugar,  creamed,  10  rolled  graham 
crackers,  1  tablespoon  flour,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder,  1  tea- 
spoon vanilla.  Add  whites  of  six  eggs  last  of  all.  Bake 
twenty  minutes  in  slow  oven.  Mrs.  Anna  Loehrke. 

Sour  Milk  Cake 

One  and  one-half  cups  brown  sugar,  IJ/2  cups  sour  milk, 

3  eggs,  1  teaspoon  soda,  2^  cups  of  flour,  1  teaspoon  salt, 
3  tablespoons  shortening,  vanilla,  citron  and  fruit  to  taste. 

Mrs.  C.  K.  Phelps. 


LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S.  Ill 

Ginger  Cake 

i 

One  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  yi  cup  butter,  2  eggs  beaten, 
1  cup  sour  or  buttermilk,  1  teaspoon  soda,  2^  cups  flour,  1 
cup  chopped  raisins.     All  kinds  of  spices.  i 

.    Mrs.  Bessie  Sings.   ; 


Chocolate  Nut  Cake 

One-half  cup  butter,.  2  cups  sugar;,"  yolks  of  4  eggs,  1  cup 
milk,  21/3  cups  flour,  ^  cup  chopped  walnuts,  4  level  teaspoons 
baking  powder,  whites  of  4  eggs,  2  squares  bitter  chocolate?, 
^  teaspoon  vanilla.  Bake  in  three  layers  with  chocolate 
frosting  between.  Mrs.  Bessie  Sings. 


Sponge  Cake  I 

One  cup  sugar,  4  eggs,  1  cup  of  flour,  1  teaspoon  of  baking- 
powder,  3  teaspoons  of  cold  water.  Cream  sugar  and  eggs. 
Add  the  water,  then  the  flour  ; sifted  several  times  with  the 
baking  powder.  Add  the  beaten  whites  of  eggs,  stir  flavoring 
•in  lightly.  Bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven.  This  may  hk 
used  as  „  a  dessert  3y  cutting  into  pieces  about  two  inches 
square.    Cover  with  whipped  cream  and^  strawberry  preserves;. 

Miss  Liilian  Mosel. 


One-Half  Pound  Cake 

One  cup  of  butter,  1^  cups  confectioners'  sugar,  4  eggs., 
yi  cup  milk,  1  teaspoon  Dr.  Price's  baking  powder,  2  cups 
flour.  Cream  butter  and  sugar,  then  add  eggs  well  beaten. 
Mix  and  sift  flour  and  baking  powder.  Add  half  of  it,  then 
add  milk.  Stir  until  well  blended,  add  remaining  flour  and 
bake  in  loaf  about  forty  minutes.     Mrs.  Elizabeth  Kreuter.    ; 


112 


LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S. 


V6ur  moneys  worth 
-  -J- Always  oU^ 


Vteif  Our 
-61700  Annejft 


THC 


ij^' CLOTHING     MOUSE. '( 


7^e  West  sides  l^^est^t/^in^  S/on^ 


Phone  Humboldt  736 


Mrs.  B.  Scheer 

Midwife 

D 


1059  N.  Winchester  Ave. 
CHICAGO 


Telephone  Humboldt  3324 

Louis  Miller 

Buffet 

3  Fine  Bowling 
Alleys 

D 


1958  West  Division  St. 

(Corner  Robey  Street) 

CHICAGO 


LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S.  113 

Lemon  Cream  Cake 

One  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  J4  cup  butter,  3  eggs  beaten 
separately,  %  cup  sweet  milk,  2  cups  flour,  IJ/2  teaspoons  bak- 
ing powder.  Bake  in  three  layers.  Filling — Mix  together  1 
cup  sugar  with  the  beaten  yolk  of  1  egg,  then  flold  in  the 
white  of  tgg.  Add  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  1  lemon. 
Pour  on  this  ^4  cup  of  boiling  water,  add  a  heaping  tablespoon 
of  flour  rubbed  smooth  in  %  cup  of  water,  1  tablespoon  of 
melted  butter.  Cook  until  it  thickens  and  when  cold,  spread 
between  the  layers.  Mrs.  Bradway. 


Blitz  Torte 

One-half  cup  butter,  yi  cup  sugar,  1  cup  flour,  yolks  of  4 
eggs  beaten  in  one  at  a  time,  6  tablespoons  of  milk,  1  level 
teaspoon  of  baking  powder.  Place  batter  in  two  tins  and 
spread  over  top  the  whites  of  eggs  beaten  stiff.  Add  8  table- 
spoons of  sugar  when  beaten.  Sprinkle  with  almonds  chopped, 
and  bake  one-half  hour.  Filling — One  cup  sweet  cream,  3 
tablespoons  sugar,  1  tablespoon  cornstarch.  Cook  in  double 
boiler  until  thick,  then  beat  in  1  whole  egg  and  add  vanilla. 
Spread  between  layers.  Mrs.  Loges. 


Gentlemen's  Favorite  Cake 

Three  eggs,  ^  cup  butter,  2  cups  sugar,  1  cup  water,  2 
cups  of  flour,  1  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar,  yi  teaspoon  soda. 
Beat  yolks  of  the  egg  in  with  the  butter  and  sugar.  Then  add 
the  water  in  which  the  soda  has  been  dissolved.  Add  the 
flour  and  cream  of  tartar  and  the  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs 
last.  Bake  in  layers.  This  filling  may  be  used:  One  egg,  1 
cup  sugar,  3  apples,  1  lemon.  Stir  all  until  it  thickens.  When 
cool  spread  between  layers.  Miss  Delia  Sheer. 


114  LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S. 

Sponge  Cake 

Five  tggs,  54  teaspoon  salt,  1  level  cup  of  sugar,  1  level 
teaspoon  of  Dr.  Price's  baking  powder,  1  level  cup  of  flour, 
1  teaspoon  lemon  extract.  Add  salt  to  eggs  and  beat  for 
fifteen  minutes,  add  sugar  and  beat  until  very  light.  Sift  in 
flour  mixed  with  baking  powder  and  add  extract.  Mix  care- 
fully and  lightly.  Turn  into  a  well  greased  and  floured  cake 
tin  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  forty  minutes. 

Mrs.  Lizzie  Hutchinson. 


French  Date  Cake 

Three  eggs,  scant  cup  of  butter.  Beat  yolks  of  eggs,  mix 
with  the  sugar,  add  beaten  w^hites,  then  1  level  cup  of  flour, 
and  1  heaping  teaspoon  of  Dr.  Price's  baking  powder.  Add 
^  pound  dates  which  have  been  rolled  in  flour  and  1  cup 
chopped  walnuts.  -Bake  in  tw^o  layers  in  a  slow  oven  ^^  hour 
and  serve  with  whipped  cream.  Mrs.  H.  H.  Whiteley. 


Sponge  Cake 

Three  eggs  well  beaten,  1  cup  sugar,  1  cup  flour,  2  teaspoons 
baking  powder,  yi  cup  boiling  water,  1  teaspoon  vanilla.  Bake 
about  twenty  minutes.  Whip  1  cup  of  strawberries,  1  cup 
of  sugar,  w^hite  of  1  tgg.     Spread  on  cake  and  serve. 

Mrs.  Marie  Wilhelmy. 


Pound  Cake 

One  cup  butter,  2  cups  Swans  Down  flour  (after  being- 
sifted),  y2  teaspoon  baking  pow^der,  then  cream;  1^  cups 
granulated  sugar,  yolks  of  5  eggs,  cream.  Beat  5  whites  and 
fold  in  the  above,  adding  1  teaspoon  of  vanilla.  Bake  fifty- 
five  minutes  in  slow  oven.  Mrs.  Hannah  Nelson. 


LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S.  115 

Date  Cake 

One  heaping  tablespoon  butter,  melted,  lyi  cups  brown 
sugar,  2  eggs,  ^4  cup  milk,  1^  cups  flour,  3  teaspoons  baking 
powder,  1  cup  chopped  dates,  1  teaspoon  cinnamon,  ^  tea- 
spoon nutmeg.  Mrs.  Laura  Swanson. 

Fruit  Cake 

One  cup  of  bread  sponge,  a  large  cup  of  sugar,  1  cup  of 
raisins  and  dates,  1  cup  currants,  figs  and  citron;  1  cup  flour, 
y2  cup  butter  and  2  eggs.  Mix  all  together  with  the  sponge, 
1  teaspoon  of  soda  dissolved  in  tablespoon  of  hot  water,  1 
teaspoon  of  cloves,  1  teaspoon  cinnamon.  Put  in  pan  to  bake, 
and  let  it  raise  for  two  hours.  This  cake  will  not  hurt  the 
most  delicate  stomach.  Mrs.  Anna  Nelson. 

Pork  Cake 

Chop  1  pound  of  fat  salt  pork  as  fine  as  possible  (nearly 
like  lard).  Pour  over  it  1  cup  of  boiling  water,  stir  in  a  pound 
of  brown  sugar,  1  cup  of  molasses  to  which  a  teaspoon  of 
soda  has  been  added,  1  pound  each  of  raisins  and  dates  chopped 
fine,  ^  pound  minced  citron.  Add  sifted  flour  enough  i-p 
make  the  consistency  of  cake  batter,  season  with  spices  to 
taste  and  bake  in  a  steady  oven.  This  cake  keeps  as  long  as 
fruit  cake,  for  which  it  is  a  substitute. 

Mrs.  Barbara  Eckstedt. 


Date  Cake 

Three  eggs,  1  cup  sugar,  1  cup  flour,  1  teaspoon  baking 
powder,  Yz  package  dates,  ^  cup  walnut  meats.  Separate  the 
eggs,  beat  yolks  light,  add  sugar,  mix  flour  and  baking  pow^- 
der.     Add  dates  and  walnuts  last.  Hazel  Mohs. 


116 


LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S. 


Before  buying  an  Electric  Vacuum  Cleaner,  write  us 
to  tell  you  about   the   Ideal  Cleaner  for  the  home 

OUR  SUPERB 

JUNIOR  n 

has  desirable  features 
not  found   in   others. 


Lint  Brush  in  nozzle 
95%  efficient.  Pro- 
tected -  from  -  Dust 
Motor  Bearings. 
Dustless  Dirt  Bag. 
Long-Wear  Electric 
Cable. 


Cleaners  Delivered  to  Your  Home  Without 
Additional  Expense 

Charles  W.  Emery ,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 


Paul  M«  Sommer 


GOOD 
SHOES 


3408  Fullerton  Avenue 


Telephone  Armitage  3835 


MeeFong  Lo 

Chinese  Chop  Suey  and 
American  Restaurant 


Dinner  with  all  the  delicacie* 

of  the  season  served  in  the 

best  Chinese  styl* 


Moderate  Prices 
Quick  Service 


Open    11:30    to   2:00  A   M. 
Saturday  10:30  to  3:30  A.M. 


1958  West  North  Avenue 
CHICAGO 


LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S.  117 

Spice  Cake 


Two  cups  water,  2  cups  sugar,  ^  cup  shortening,  2  cups 
raisins,  J^  teaspoon  cloves,  nutmeg  and  salt,  1  teaspoon  cin- 
namon, J4  teaspoon  ginger,  ^  teaspoon  allspice,  2  tablespoons 
molasses.  Boil  this  three  minutes  ^nd  cool,  then  add  2  tea- 
spoons baking  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water.  Four  cups  flour,  1 
teaspoon  baking  powder,  add  nuts,  if  desired.  Bake  one  to 
one  and  one-half  hours  in  a  slow  oven. 

Mrs.  Marie  Larson. 

Perfection  Angel  Cake 

Two-thirds  cup  white  of  eggs,  %  cup  pastry  flour,  ^  cup 
powdered  sugar,  ^  cup  granulated  sugar,  J^  teaspoon  cream 
of  tartar,  Yz  teaspoon  vanilla,  ^  teaspoon  almond  extract, 
pinch  of  salt.  Sift  sugar  and  flour  separately  twice  before 
measuring,  then  sift  together  five  times.  Beat  whites  of  eggs 
until  foamy,  then  add  cream  of  tartar,  beat  until  it  will  stand 
alone,  add  extract  and  beat,  then  fold  in  sugar  and  flour  care- 
fully, salt,  then  put  in  mold  and  bake. 

Mrs.  Marion  Krueger. 

Danish  Layer  Cake 

Eight  eggs,  1  good  cup  sugar,  1  cup  flour  sifted  3  times  and 
1  scant  level  teaspoon  cream  tarter.  Separate  eggs,  placing 
yolks  in  baking  bowl,  whip  hard  at  least  ten  minutes,  add 
sugar,  whip  hard  again  until  the  mixture  is  light  and  airy. 
To  whites  add  a  pinch  of  salt  and  whip  until  it  foams  well, 
then  add  cream  of  tarter  and  whip  until  it  is  light  and  dry. 
Add  to  yolks  and  sugar.  Then  fold  in  the  flour  lightly.  Bake 
in  5  layers  in  a  quick  oven. 

Filling:  Between  middle  (3rd  from  bottom)  put  a  filling 
made  of  red  raspberry  sauce,  thicken  with  cornstarch.  Cus- 
tard filling  may  also  be  used  on  some  of  the  other  layers. 

Mrs.  Henriette  Carlsen. 


118  LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  D.  E.  S. 

Chocolate  Bars 

One-half  cup  of  melted  butter,  1  cup  of  lig*ht  brown  sugar, 
1  egg  unbeaten,  1^  cups  of  flour,  ^  cup  of  sweet  milk,  1  tea- 
spoon vanilla,  ^  cup  each  of  nut  meats  and  chopped  raisins, 
lYz  teaspoon  of  baking  powder,  5  tablespoons  of  melted 
chocolate.  Bake  in  one  layer,  cut  in  small  squares  and 
frost  three  sides  with  a  chocolate  frosting. 

Mrs.  Morse  Nevins  Brown. 

Devil's  Food  Cake 

One  cup  sugar,  2  cups  flour,  1  teaspoon  salt  (scant),  1  tea- 
spoon soda  and  3  teaspoons  Bunte's  cocoa.  Sift  these  together 
several  times.  Add  1  cup  of  thick  sour  cream,  1  tablespoon 
of  lard  or  butterine  and  1  teaspoon  vanilla.  This  makes  a 
delicious  cake  made  as  a  loaf  or  in  layers. 

Mrs.  Emma  Johnson. 

Sponge  Cake 

Three  eggs,  1^  cups  sugar,  l^^  cups  flour,  2  teaspoon  bak- 
ing powder,  %  cup  boiling  water.  Beat  eggs  thoroughly,  add 
sugar,  beat,  sift  flour  and  baking  powder  three  times  to- 
gether, add  water  slowly  while  beating.  Batter  should  be 
thin  and  well  beaten.  Mrs.  J.  Balassa. 

White  Layer  Cake 

Scant  J/2  cup  butter,  2  cups  sugar,  1  cup  milk,  J  cups 
sifted  cake  flour,  2  heaping  teaspoon  baking  powder,  1  tea- 
spoon vanilla,  whites  of  four  eggs.  Cream  butter,  add  sugar 
gradually,  add  milk  and  vanilla,  sift  flour  and  baking  powder 
about  five  times,  add  flour  and  beat,  whip  whites  of  eggs  till 
stiff  and  fold  in,  bake  in  three  layers.     Christine  Branding. 


LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S.  119 

Angel  Food  Cake 

Whites  of  9  or  10  eggs.     (There  is  such  a  difference  in  the: 
size  of  eggs  that  it  is  well  to  break  them  in  a  measnrihg  cup. - 
There  should  be  just  one  cupful  of  the  whites.)     A  pinch  of 
salt  added  to  the  eggs  hurries  beating.     1^  cups  granulated 
sugar;  1  cup  Swan  Down  flour.     Sift  flour  once,  then  measure 
and  sift  three  times;  beat  whites  of  eggs  about  half  and  add 
one  level  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar,  then  beat  whites  until  they  - 
will  stand  of  their  own  weight;  add  the  sugar,  then  flour,  not 
by  stirring  but  folding  over  and  over  until  thoroughly  mixed  in ; 
flavor  with  one  teaspoon  of  vanilla.     Bake  in  an  ungreased; 
pan.     Care  should  be  taken  baking  an  Angel  Food  cake  as  in^ 
mixing.     Place  cake  in  an  oven  that  is  just  warm  enough  tot 
know  there  is  a  fire  inside ;  let  the  oven  stay  just  warm  through  | 
until  the  batter  has  raised  to  the  top  of  the  cake  pan,  then  in-- 
crease  the  heat  gradually  until  the  cake  is  well  browned  over.: 
If  by  pressing  the  top  of  the  cake  with  the  finger  it  will  spring 
back  wathout  leaving  the  imprint  of  the  finger  the  cake  is  done 
through.     Great  care  should  be  taken  that  the  oven  is  not  too- 
hot  to  begin  with  as  the  cake  w411  rise  too  fast  and  settle  or' 
fall  in  baking.     Should  bake  from  thirty-five  to  forty  minutes,  i 
When  done  invert  the  pan,  let  stand  until  cold  before  removing 
from  pan.  Lillie  Trodson,  Worthy  Matron.      - 

Chocolate  Loaf  Cake 

One  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  1^  cups  butter  and  lardj 
mixed,  2  eggs,  1  cup  milk,  1  teaspoon  Dr.  Price's  baking  pow- ': 
der,  2  tablespoon  cocoa.  Beat  to  a  cream  one  cup  of  sugar '. 
with  the  shortening  add  the  eggs  well  beaten,  then  the  milk  \ 
and  the  vanilla.  Beat  flour  and  baking  pow^der  into  these  in-| 
gredients  and  put  the  remainder  of  the  sugar  and  milk  with  ■ 
the  cocoa.  Add  to  batter.  Beat  well  and  bake  in  a  moderate ! 
oven  ^  of  an  hour. 

Frosting:  1  cup  of  confectioners'  sugar,  1  teaspoon  vanilla, ; 
1  teaspoon  cocoa  and  1  teaspoon  boiled  milk. 

Miss  Clara  Kistner. 


120     LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S. 


For  Good  Furniture 


Go  to 


Rusnak  Bros 


CHICAGO 


THREE  STORES 

1 393-95  Milwaukee  Ave.  2646-54  West  North  Ave. 

501-511   North  Cicero  Ave. 


J 


Hatterman 

Safety  Deposit  Vault 
Company 

Boxes  for  Rent 
$3.00  Up 


1110  Milwaukee  Avenue 


Phone  Belmont  3961 


Lewis  Nelson 

Practical  Plumber 
and  Gas  Fitter 


3521  Fullerton  Avenue 


Chicago 


LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S.  121 

Spice  Layer  Cake 

Two  eggs,  y^  cup  butter,  }^  cup  sour  milk,  1  cup  brown 
sugar,  small  teaspoon  soda,  2  cups  flour,  yi  teaspoon  each,  cin- 
namon, cloves  and  mace,  J^  cup  syrup. 

Filling:  1  cup  pulverized  sugar,  1  teaspoon  butter,  little 
milk  and  vanilla.  •  Minnie  Herre. 

Cocoanut  Tea  Cakes 

Roll  puff  or  plain  paste  to  ^4  i^^ch  in  thickness.  Cut  with 
cutter  and  bake  in  a  tin  sheet  in  a  hot  oven.  When  nearly 
done,  remove  from  oven.  Cool  slightly,  brush  over  with 
beaten  white  of  egg.  Sprinkle  with  cocoanut  and  return  to 
oven  to  finish  baking".  Mrs.  D.  Anderson. 

Sunshine  Cake 

Whites  of  10  eggs,  1^  cups  powdered  sugar,  yolks  of  6 
^§■§'5,  1  teaspoon  lemon  extract,  1  cup  flour,  1  teaspoon  cream 
of  tarter.  Beat  whites  of  eggs,  add  sugar  gradually.  Con- 
tinue beating,  add  yolks  of  eggs  beaten,  then  extract.  Cut 
and  fold  in  flour  mixed  and  sifted  with  cream  of  tartar. 
Bake  fifty  minutes  in  moderate  oven  in  an  angel  cake  pan. 

Dagmar  Stevens,  Past  Matron,  Humboldt  Park  Chapter. 

Prune  Cake 

One  cup  sugar,  J/2  cup  butter,  3  eggs  (save  whites  of  two 
eggs  for  frosting),  1  cup  sour  milk,  ^  teaspoon  soda  and 
cloves,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder,  one  teaspoon  cinnamon, 
1  teaspoon  nutmeg,  2  cups  flour,  1  cup  stewed  prunes  mixed 
with  some  of  the  flour. 

Frosting:  lyi  cups  powdered  sugar,  1  tablespoon  butter, 
whites  of  2  eggs,  flavor.  Mrs.  Sloan. 


122 


LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S. 


Supreme  Brand  Cottage  Cheese 

Is  Just  Right  for  Cheese 
Cake  and  Pie 

Delivered  by 

Wieland  Dairy  Co. 

Distributers  of 
Sure  Pure  Milk  and  Cream 

3959  Milwaukee  Avenue 

Phone  Irving  897 


Ohse  &  Quast 

THE  HUMBOLDT 

Grocery  and  Market 


TELEPHONE 
Belmont  7883 


D 


2555  Milwaukee  Ave. 
and  3101  Logan  Blvd. 


The 

PRESTLER 

Bakery 

FINE  BAKING 


•:» 


2653  No.  Kedzie  Ave. 

Phone  Belmont  7885 


LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S.  123 

Cocoa  Layer  Cake 

One-half  cup  butter,  1  cup  sugar,  cream  and  add  2  eggs  well 
beaten,  ^  cup  milk,  1^4  cups  flour,  2  teaspoons  Bunte's  cocoa, 
1  teaspoon  vanilla.    Bake  in  2  layers  in  moderate  oven  twenty-^ 
five  minutes.  ;  Mrs.  A.  J.  Sloan.     : 

.    -Graham  Cracker  Cake 

One  cup  sugar,  j/i  cup  butter,  cream  and  add -2  eggs,  1  cup 
milk,  sweet,  yi  cup  walnuts,  24  graham  crackers  crushed,  2 
teaspoons  baking  powder.     Bake  in  a  loaf. 

Mrs.  A.  J.  Sloan. 

Apple  Sauce  Cake 

One-quarter  cup  shortening,  yz  cup  sugar,  ^  teaspoon  each 
of  ground  nutmeg,  cinnamon,  cloves,  1  teaspoon  vanilla,  pinch 
of  salt,  1^4  cup  of  apple  sauce  unsweetened,  3  level  teaspoon 
of  soda  dissolved  in  the  apple  sauce,  2^  cups  of  flour,  %,,cup 
of  raisins,  10  cents  shelled  walnuts.  Bake  in  slow  oven  about 
forty  minutes.  Mrs.  Emma  Boettcher. 

Fairy  Loaf  Cake 

Four  eggs,  beaten  separately.  l}i  cups  granulated  sugar, 
%  cup  butter,  }^  cup  sweet  milk,  .2j4  cups  flour,  1  teaspoon 
cream  tartar,  scant  ^  teaspoon  soda,  flavor  to  taste.  Sift 
flour  once  then  measure,  add  soda  and  sift  three  times,  cream 
butter  and  sugar  thoroughly,  beat  yolks  to  a  very  stiff  froth, 
and  stir  in,  whip  whites  to  a  foam,  add  cream  tartar  and  whip 
until  stiff,  add  milk,  then  whites  of  eggs,  then  flour,  then 
flavor  and  stir  very  hard.  Put  in  slow  oven  at  once,  will 
bake  in  fifty  minutes.  Mrs.  G.  Samuelson. 


124  LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S. 


Telephone  Belmont  164 


Superior  Tea  Company 


INCORPORATED 


Teas,  Coffee,  Spices 

Baking  Powder  Extracts 


3650  Wrightwood  Ave. 


Chicago 


Frank  Masinetz 


Meat  Market 


f 


2639  Milwaukee  'Ave. 


A.  L.  Alie 

Bakery  and    . 
Delicatessen 


n 


4226  Milwaukee  Avenue 

Telephone  Kildare  2102 


LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S.  125 

Jam  Cake 

Two  tablespoons  butter,  1  cup  sugar,  ^  cup  milk,  1  tea- 
spoon cinnamon,  ^  teaspoon  nutmeg,  1  teaspoon  soda,  lyi 
cups  flour.  Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  the  eggs  and  milk, 
cinnamon,  nutmeg  add  soda  into  flour  and  last  add  one  cup  of 
any  kind  of  jam,  huckelberry  preferred. 

Mrs.  Bert  Hutchinson. 

Crumb  Cake 

Two  cups  brown  sugar,  J4  cup  butter,  2  eggs,  1  cup  but- 
termilk, 2  teaspoons  soda  (very  scant),  2^  cups  flour,  pinch 
of  salt,  put  soda  in  flour.  Mrs.  Minnie  Mengel. 


Fresh  Cocoanut  Cake 

Three  eggs  (save  2  whites  for  frosting),  lyi  cups  sugar, 
1^  cups  flour,  ^  cup  milk  or  hot  water,  a  little  of  cocoanut 
milk,  1^  teaspoons  baking  powder.  Frosting — Grate  the 
fresh  cocoanut,  mix  with  the  beaten  whites  of  eggs  into  which 
has  been  stirred  3  tablespoons  of  powdered  sugar. 

Miss  Clara  Kistner. 


Cream  Puffs 

One  cup  flour,  ^  teaspoon  salt,  1  cup  boiling  water,  ^  cup 
butter,  and  4  eggs.  Add  salt  and  butter  to  the  water,  when 
boiling  add  the  flour,  all  at  once,  stirring  constantly  until 
mixture  leaves  sides  of  pan.  Remove  from  fire  and  add  the 
unbeaten  eggs  one  at  a  time,  beating  continually.  Drop  about 
2  inches  apart.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  twenty-five  minutes. 
When  cool,  with  a  sharp  knife  make  a  cut  in  top  and  fill  with 
whipped  cream.    Sprinkle  powdered  sugar  over  top  and  serve. 

Mrs.  Henriette  Carlsen. 


126  LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S. 

Hot  Milk  Sponge  Cake 

Two  eggs  well  beaten,  1  cup  sugar,  1  cup  of  flour  sifted  4 
times  with  1  teaspoon  Dr.  Price's  baking  powder,  ^  cup 
milk,  boiling  hot.  1  tablespoon  of  butter  in  milk,  the  milk 
must  be  boiling  and  added  last.  Mrs.  Emma  Ross. 


Orange  Torte 

Two  cups  sugar,  5  eggs,  save  white  of  one  for  frosting,  one 
orange  rind  and  juice,  ^  cup  cold  water,  Ij-^  teaspoon  baking 
powder,  and  2  cups  of  flour.     Bake  forty-five  minutes. 

Frosting:  White  of  1  tgg,  6  tablespoons  pulverized  sugar, 
rind  and  juice  of  one  orange.  Mrs.  Barbara  Eckstedt. 


Devil's  Food 

One  cup  sugar,  1  tablespoon  of  butter  (heaping),  1  egg,  1 
cup  sour  milk,  1  teaspoon  soda  (scant),  1^  cups  flour,  1 
teaspoon  baking  powder,  1 J4  square  Bakers'  chocolate. 

Mrs.  Bert  Hutchinson. 


A  Delicious  Cake 

One-half  cup  sugar,  ^  cup  butter,  1  large  cup  flour,  4  egg 
yolks,  8  tablespoons  milk,  1  heaping  spoon  baking  powder. 
Bake  in  two  layers.  Beat  whites  stiff,  add  ^  cup  sugar. 
Spread  on  top,  sprinkle  with  nuts.     Bake. 

Filling. — One  tgg  yolk,  1  cup  milk,  1  tablespoon  cornstarch, 
3  tablespoons  sugar.  Boil  until  thick  (stirring  constantly). 
Spread  between   layers. 

Mrs.  Mary  HoUison,  Ben  Hur  Chapter. 


LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S.  127 

Devirs  Layer  Cake 

Boil  ^  cup  milk,  %  cup  brown  sugar,  3  tablespoons  Bunte's 
cocoa,  when  cool  add  ^  cup  butter,  1  cup  sugar,  2  eggs,  2  cups 
flour,  ^  cup  sour  milk,  1  level  teaspoon  soda,  1  teaspoon  va- 
nilla.    Chocolate  or  ice  cream  filling.  Minnie  Herr. 

Jelly  Roll  '; 

One  cup  granulated  sugar,  1  cup  flour,  1  scant  teaspoon  bak- 
ing powder,  3  eggs,  6  tablespoons  of  hot  water.  Mix  arid 
sift  the  dry  ingredients,  add  the  eggs  well  beaten.  Beat  the 
batter  well,  pour  into  a  smooth,  well  greased  pan  and  bake 
slowly.  When  done  turn  cake  on  to  a  sheet  of  brown  paper 
well  dusted  wath  powdered  sugar.  Beat  the  jelly  with  a  fork 
and  spread  on  the  cake.  With  a  sharp  knife  trim  off  crusty 
edges.  Mrs.  Henriette  Carlsen. ' 

Crumb  Cake 

Three  cups  flour,  lj4  cups  sugar,  1  cup  lard.  Rub  all  tp- 
gethep  with  hands  until  like  crumbs.  Reserve  ^  cup  of  this 
and  put  aside  for  top  of  cake.  In  another  bowl  put  1  cup 
sour  milk,  1  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  the  milk,  good  pinch 
salt,  2  eggs  well  beaten,  1  teaspoon  each  ground  cinnamon, 
allspice  and  nutmeg.  Mix  with  the  first  ingredients  and 
sprinkle  with  ^  cup  of  crurnbs.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  forty 
minutes  or  more  if  necessary.  Mrs.  Claudie  Osbeck.. 


Spice  Cake 

One-half  cup  butter,  1  pound  brown  sugar,  1  teaspoon 
cloves,  1  teaspoon  allspice,  ^  nutmeg,  2  eggs,  1  cup  raisins, 
1  cup  nuts,  2^  cups  flour,  1  level  teaspoon  soda,  1  cup  sour 
milk  or  cream.  Mrs.  Mary  Hollison,  Ben  Hur  Chapter. 


128 


LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S. 


^^  More  Heat  for  Your  Coal  Money'' 


C.  Oberheide  &  Son 


COAL 


Main  Office:     1335  Bradley  Street 

Phone  Monroe  1258  and  6474 


Charles  H.  Schmidt,  M.  D. 

2749  West  Division  Street 


Best  of 
Everything 


*s 


White's  Drug  Store 

3956  North  Cicero  Avenue 

First  Door  South  of  Milwanket  Ave. 
and  Irrins  Park  Bird. 


LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S. .  129 

Caramel  Icing 

One  and  three- fourths  cups  brown  sugar,  Vo  cup  milk,  butter 
the  size  of  a  hickory  nut.  Heat  over  hot  water  to  melt  sugar 
and  butter,  then  stir  over  fire  until  it  forms  a  soft  ball  in  cold 
water,  add  vanilla  and  spread  quickly.      Jennie  Nachtweih. 


Caramel  Filling 

One  pound  brown  sugar,  ^  cup  milk,  2  eggs,  vanilla. 
Boil  sugar  and  milk  until  hardens,  when  tested  in  cold 
water.  Beat  yolks  of  eggs  and  whites  separately  and 
then  combine  them.  Gradually  pour  over  them  the  hot  syrup, 
beating  all  the  time,  add  flavoring  and  beat  till  cool  and  quite 
thick.  Christine  Branding. 


Chocolate  Filling 

Melt  1  square  Bakers'  bitter  chocolate  with  a  tablespoon 
butter  (over  hot  water).  Add  1  tablespoon  vanilla  and  2 
cups  confectioners'  sugar.  Beat  well,  spread  between  layers 
and  cover  cake. 


Pineapple  Filling 

Grated  pineapple  with  shredded  cocoanut  sprinkled  over 
it  placed  between  layers  of  cake,  makes  a  good  filling,  re- 
quiring no  sugar.  A.  L. 


Quick  Chocolate  Frosting 

Two  cups  confectioners'  sugar,  2  squares  bitter  chocolate 
or  cocoa,  add  lump  butter,  boil  water,  and  add  to  sugar,  beat 
hard  until  creamy.  Christine  Branding. 


130 


LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S. 


Hasselblad  Novelty 
Dry  Goods  Co. 

The  Best  in  Ladies' 
and  Infants'  Wear 


3131-33  Logan  Boulevard 


ELL  Adah  to  tell 
Ruth  that  Esther 
told  Martha  that 
Electa's  husband  al- 
ways gota  square  deal 
when  he  made  a  pur- 
chase  of  Hatter 
Samter,  Logan  Square 
Auditorium  Building, 
2543  N.Kedzie  Blvd., 
Telephone  Belmont 
Four  hundred  twelve 


Phone  Belmont  6934         E.  A.  Bnicli 

SUPERB 

Dyeing  &  Cleaning 
Company 

Ladies'    and    Gents'  Garments, 

Oriental  Rugs,    Carpets 

and  Draperies 

D 
3129  Logan  Boulevard 

Factory: 

1721-23  Milwaukee  Ave. 

Phone  Humboldt  1385 


Molasses  Cookies 

One  cup  sugar,  1  cup  butter  and  lard  mixed,  1  cup  mo- 
lasses, 1  tgg,  %  of  a  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  J4  cup  of 
boiling  water,  cloves  and  cinnamon  to  taste,  4  cups  of  sifted 
flour.  Mix  dough  with  3  cups  and  reserve  the  4th  to  flour 
the  board  and  roll  out.  Mix  as  soft  as  can  be  handled.  Roll 
thin  and  bake  in  floured  pans.  These  cookies  will  keep  well 
and  should  be  very  crisp.  Mrs.  Peters. 


Hermits 

One  and  one-half  cups  brown  sugar,  yi  cup  butterine  or 
butter,  2  eggs,  4  tablespoons  water,  ^  teaspoon  soda  (dis- 
solved in  water),  1  cup  raisins,  1  cup  currants,  yi  cup 
nuts,  2^  cups  flour  (heaping),  J/2  teaspoon  baking  pow- 
der, 1/2  teaspoon  each  of  ground  cloves,  cinnamon,  all- 
spice and  nutmeg.  Put  spices  and  baking  powder  with  flour 
and  sift.  Mix  butter,  sugar  and  eggs.  Add  water,  then 
flour  mixed  with  spices,  and  fruit  and  nuts  last.  Drop  on 
greased  pan  and  bake  light  brown.        Mrs.  Victoria  Peters. 


Cocoanut  Cookies 


Whites  of  4  eggs  beaten  to  cream,  2  cups  powdered  sugar, 
2  cups  cocoanut  and  2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Mrs.  Loges. 


132  LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S. 

Nut  Patties 

One  egg  beaten  with  1  cup  of  sugar  until  very  light. 
Into  this  stir  1  cup  of  finely  chopped  English  walunts  and 
5  tablespoons  of  Swans  Down  cake  flour.  Drop  on  buttered 
tins  with  teaspoon,  making  the  patties  about  the  size  of  maca- 
roons and  bake  in  medium  hot  oven  about  ten  minutes. 

Lillie  Trodson,  Worthy  Matron. 


Rocks 

One  cup  butter,  lj/2  cups  sugar,  3  eggs,  1  large  tablespoon 
cold  water,  pinch  of  salt,  1^^  cups  walnuts  and  1  cup  dates, 
chopped — not  too  fine — ^  teaspoon  each  cloves  and  allspice, 
1  teaspoon  cinnamon,  1  teaspoon  soda  and  cream  of  Tartar 
in  3  good  cups  of  flour.  Drop  from  teaspoon  and  bake  as 
cookies.  Mrs.  Lizzie  Hutchinson. 


Old  Fashioned  Cookies 

One  cup  of  shortening  (butter,  butterine  or  lard),  2  cups 
of  sugar,  1  cup  of  sour  cream  or  milk,  1  teaspoon  of  soda 
dissolved  in  the  milk,  1  egg,  flavoring  to  taste.  Flour  enough 
to  roll.     Bake  a  light  brown.  Mrs.  Victoria  Peters. 


Trilbys 

Two  cups  oatmeal,  2  cups  flour,  1  cup  brown  sugar,  y^  cup 
butter,  y2  cup  lard,  ^  cup  sweet  milk,  2  level  teaspoons  bak- 
ing powder,  and  a  pinch  of  salt. 

Filling:  One  pound  dates,  1  cup  granulated  sugar,  J4  cup 
boiling  water.  Mix  as  pie  crust,  then  add  milk,  roll  out,  cut 
with  cookie  cutter.  Fill  with  filling  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven 
until  a  rich  brown.  Ruth  Carlsen. 


LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S.  133 

French  Pastry 

One-fourth  pound  butter,  2j4  cups  pulverized  sugar,  4 
tablespoons  cream,  white  of  one  egg  beaten  stiff,  chocolate 
and  vanilla.  Mrs.  W.  G.  Anderson. 

Scottish  Fancies 

One  egg,  Yz  cup  sugar,  %  tablespoons  melted  butter,  1 
cup  rolled  oats,  %  teaspoon  salt  and  J4  teaspoon  vanilla.  Beat 
tgg  until  light,  add  gradually  sugar,  and  then  stir  in  re- 
maining ingredients.  Drop  mixture  by  teaspoons  on  a 
thoroughly  greased  inverted  dripping  pan,  one  inch  apart. 
Spread  into  circular  shape  with  a  knife  first  dipped  in  cold 
water.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  delicately  browned. 
To  give  variety  use  %  cup  rolled  oats  and  fill  cup  with 
shredded  cocoanut.  We  like  them  best  made  with  rolled  oats 
and  cocoanut.  Mrs.  Haldor  Carlsen. 

Anise  Cookies 

Six  eggs,  stir  with  1  pound  of  sugar,  one  hour,  1  pound 
of  flour,  not  any  more,  a  pinch  of  salt,  1  tablespoon  of  anise. 
Drop  on  greased  tins  the  night  before  and  bake  in  a  slow 
oven  ^-he  next  morning.  The  longer  you  beat,  the  more 
cookies  this  recipe  will  make. 

Anna  Shaberg,  Past  Matron. 

Fruit  Cookies 

One-half  cup  butter,  ^  cup  lard  and  1  pound  brown  sugar. 
Cream  and  add  1  cup  raisins,  1  cup  currants,  Yz  pound  wal- 
nuts, 10  cents  almonds,  pinch  salt,  1  cup  water,  3  cups  flour, 
1  teaspoon  baking  soda,  S  cents  citron.  Drop  by  spoons. 
Make  about  75  cookies.  Mrs.  A.  J.  Sloan. 


134 


LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S. 


Phone  Belmont  6259 


Nick  Monsen 

Florist 


3640  FuUerton  Avenue 

Near  Monticel/o  Avenue 

CHICAGO 


I 


Telephone  Humboldt  4472 


ROLING  BROS. 

JEWELERS 

DIA  MONDS,  JE  WELR  Y 


U 


2310  Milwaukee  Ave. 

Cor.  California  Ave. 

CHICAGO 


Osborne 

Art  Studios 

Importers  and  Decorators  of 

Fine  China 


TELEPHONE 

BELMONT   9338 


2520  Milwaukee  Ave. 
CHICAGO 


LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S.  135 

Butter  Cookies 

One-half  pound  butter,  grated  rind  of  a  half  a  lemon,  2 
eggs,  1  cup  sugar,  ^  teaspoon  baking  powder,  1  teaspoon 
vanilla.  Add  flour  to  make  soft  dough.  Brush  over  top  of 
cookies  with  part  of  egg  well  beaten.     Bake  in  hot  oven. 

Mrs.  Marie  Wilhelmy. 


Rocks  or  Christmas  Cookies 

One  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  1  cup  melted  butter,  3  eggs 
beaten  light,  1  teaspoon  baking  soda,  dissolved  in  3  table- 
spoons of  boiling  water,  2j4  cups  flour,  1  teaspoon  allspice, 
1  teaspoon  cinnamon,  ^  pound  dates,  chopped  (not  too  fine), 
^  pound  walnut  meats,  chopped.  Mix  well  and  bake  in  sheet 
pans,  dropping  only  a  teaspoon  of  the  dough  in  dots  on  pan. 

Clara  Kistner. 


Cardamori  Cookies 

One-half  cup  butter,  4  eggs,  2  cups  sugar,  %  cup  of  milk, 
1  tablespoon  melted  oil  or  lard,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder, 
from  3  to  4  cups  of  flour,  1  teaspoon  of  cardamon  crushed 
fine.  Drop  from  spoon  about  size  of  marble  or  rolled  out  on 
bread  board.  Mrs.   F.   Moenck. 

f 

Oatmeal  Cookies 

One  cup  sugar,  ^  cup  shortening,  half  lard  and  half  butter, 
yi  teaspoon  salt,  1  tgg,  ^  cup  sweet  milk  or  sour  milk,  2  cups 
uncooked  oatmeal,  2  cups  flour,  yi  teaspoon  cinnamon,  2  tea- 
spoons baking  powder  and  1  cup  raisins.  Use  less  baking 
powder  for  sour  milk  and  add  1  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in 
hot  water.  Mrs.  Marie  Larson. 


136     LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S. 

Oatmeal  Cookies 

One  cup,  half  lard  and  half  butter,  1  cup  sugar,  ^  cup 
raisins,  ^  cup  walnuts  chopped,  Yz  teaspoon  soda,  1  or  2  eggs, 
1  cup  milk,  2  cups  oatmeal,  2  cups  flour.     Drop  from  spoon. 

Mrs.  M.  Herre. 

Oatmeal  Cookies 

One-half  cup  butter,  Yz  cup  lard  (scant),  1%  cups  sugar, 
1^  cups  ground  oatmeal,  2  cups  flour,  2  eggs,  %  teaspoon 
soda,  1  teaspoon  salt,  1  teaspoon  cinnamon,  1^  cups  raisins 
and  5  tablespoons  milk.  Walnut  meats  if  desired.  Bake  in 
a  moderate  oven.  Mrs.  Bert  Hutchinson. 

White  Cookies 

Two  cups  sugar,  1  teaspoon  soda,  1  cup  crisco,  1  tea- 
spoon salt,  Yi  cup  thick  sour  milk,  2  eggs,  1  teaspoon  vanilla 
extract,  Ja  teaspoon  lemon  extract,  and  flour.  Cream  crisco 
and  sugar,  add  beaten  eggs,  soda  mixed  with  sour  milk,  salt, 
extracts  and  about  5  cups  flour.  Roll  very  thin,  cut  with 
cookie  cutter,  lay  on  buttered  tins,  bake  in  moderately  hot 
oven  five  minutes.     Makes  ninety  cookies. 

Mrs.  Etheyl  Sorensen. 
t 

BrovTH  Sugar  Cookies 

Two  eggs,  1%  cups  of  brown  sugar,  %  cup  of  butter  and 
lard  equal  parts,  1  teaspoon  vanilla,  2  teaspoons  of  cream 
tartar,  1  teaspoon  soda,  ^4  teaspoon  salt,  3  cups  of  flour.  In 
measuring  sugar,  pack  solidly  in  cup.  Combine  sugar,  butter 
and  eggs  well  beaten,  add  flour,  soda,  cream  tartar  and  salt 
mixed  together,  add  vanilla.  Roll  thin  and  cut  with  small 
cutter.  Anna  Shaberg,  Past  Matron. 


LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S.  137 

Sand  Tarts 

One  pound  brown  sugar,  ^  pound  shortening,  1  teaspoon 
salt,  2  eggs,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder.  Rub  together.  Add 
one  scant  cup  of  cold  water.  Add  flour  enough  to  handle. 
Flour  board  well,  roll  thin  and  bake  in  hot  oven. 

Mrs.  Anna  Householder. 

Macaroons 

Four  eggs  (whites  only)  beaten  stiff,  1  cup  sugar,  1  cup 
walnuts,  chopped,  1  cup  cocoanut,  3  cups  corn  flakes.  Drop 
by  spoons  on  greased  pans.    Bake  until  light  brown. 

-  Mrs.  Elizabeth  Thomas. 

Fruit  Cookies 

Two  cups  sugar,  1  cup  lard,  1  cup  molasses,  1  cup  hot  water, 
1  cup  chopped  raisins,  1  cup  currants,  1  cup  chopped  walnuts, 
3  teaspoons  soda  dissolved  in  hot  w^ater,  2  teaspoons  of  cinna- 
mon, 1  teaspoon  of  nutmeg,  1  teaspoon  vanilla,  flour  enough 
so  you  can  drop  from  spoon.  Mrs.  Charles  Mosel. 

:       .  Sugar  Cookies 

One  cup  sugar,  1  cup  butter,  1  cup  buttermilk  or  sour 
milk,  1  teaspoon  soda.  Flavor  to  taste.  Enough  flour  to  roll 
soft.  Mrs.  M.  Herre. 


Peanut  Butter  Cookies 

One  tablespoon  butter,  S  tablespoons  peanut  butter,  lj4 
cups  sugar,  2  eggs,  3  tablespoons  sour  milk,  1  teaspoon  soda, 
about  1  %  cups  flour.  Mrs.  Charles  A.  Anderson. 


138 


LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S. 


Telephone  Humboldt  5272 

Albert  G.  Hanke 

Fine  Furniture 


CASH  OR  CREDIT 


2369-71  Milwaukee    2847-49  Fullerton 
Avenue  Avenue 


C.  H.  KARLSEN 

3733  Lowell  Ave. 

Irrin;  5852 


AARON  JOHNSON 

4300  N.  Areri  Ave. 

Irving  2573 


Phone  Irving  7720 


Karisen&  Johnson 


REAL  ESTATE 

LoanS)  Renting, 
Insurance 


▼ 


4025  Elston  Avenue 
CHICAGO,  ILL. 


Phone  Belmont  7724 


Frank  E.  Pearson 


PLUMBER 


h 


2641  N.  Kedzie  Ave. 

Near  Milwaukee  Ave. 

CHICAGO 


LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S.  139 

White  Cookies 

One  cup  sugar,  1  cup  shorteningj^  1  egg,  yi  cup  sour  milk, 
^^  teaspoon  soda,  1  teaspoon  flavoring  to  taste,  flour  to  make 
it  stiff  enough  to  roll.  Mrs.  Emma  Ross. 

Mrs.  Bradway. 

Oatmeal  Cookies 

One  cup  sugar,  brown  or  white,  1  cup  butter  and  lard  mixed, 
2  cups  flour,  2  cups  oatmeal,  1  cup  chopped  raisins,  1  tgg, 
4  teaspoons  sweet  milk,  ^4  teaspoon  soda,  1  teaspoon  cinna- 
mon, y^  teaspoon  salt.  Drop  on  greased  tins  and  bake  in  hot 
oven.  Mrs.  Thomas  F.  Otley. 

Cookies 

One-half  cup  butter  and  lard  mixed  and  creamed  with  1^ 
cups  brown  sugar,  2  eggs  well  beaten,  2  cups  flour,  1  level 
teaspoon  of  soda  in  a  little  hot  water,  1  pound  chopped  dates 
(or  seeded  raisins),  ^4  pound  walnuts,  flavor  with  vanilla. 
Drop  from  teaspoon  and  bake  in  greased  tins. 

Frieda  A.   Kaiser. 

Imperial  Cookies 

One-half  cup  butter,  1  cup  sugar,  2  eggs,  1  tablespoon  milk, 
2y2  cups  flour,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  ^  teaspoon  lemon 
extract,  yi  teaspoon  grated  nutmeg,  J4  cup  ground  nuts. 

Mrs.  C.  A.  Anderson, 

Cookies 

One  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  1  cup  shortening  (part  lard), 
^  cup  sweet  milk,  %  teaspoon  soda,  nutmeg,  3  cups  flour. 
Dough  soft,  roll  thin.  Mrs.  James  Stott. 


140     LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S. 

Rock  Cookies 

One  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  1  cup  butter,  beaten  together, 
3  eggs  beaten,  2%  cups  flour,  1  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  1 
tablespoon  hot  water,  1  teaspoon  cinnamon,  1  pound  English 
walnuts  chopped,  ^  pound  chopped  dates.  Put  flour  in  last 
and  mix  well.     Drop  into  buttered  tins. 


Potato  Doughnuts 

One  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  3  tablespoons  butter,  3  eggs, 
4  teaspoons  baking  powder,  1  cup  sweet  milk,  ^  teaspoon 
nutmeg  and  cinnamon,  1  teaspoon  salt,  1  cup  mashed  potatoes, 
flour  to  roll.  Cream  butter  and  add  one-half  the  sugar,  add 
the  remaining  sugar  and  milk  to  the  beaten  eggs.  Cool  the 
potatoes  and  add  to  mixture.  Add  to  the  dry  ingredients 
which  have  been  well  sifted  together.  Mix  thoroughly,  handle 
lightly,  put  on  floured  board  and  roll  out.  Cut  out  and  fry 
a  few  at  a  time  in  deep,  hot  lard.  This  will  make  forty 
doughnuts.  Clara  Hoyt. 


Doughnuts 

Two  eggs  beaten;  1  cup  sugar,  J^  tablespoon  of  lard  and 
butter,  1  cup  sour  milk,  1  small  teaspoon  soda,  1  teaspoon 
vinegar,  1  teaspoon  of  Dr.  Price's  baking  powder,  flour  enough 
to  handle.  Mrs.  Hilda  Nelson. 


Doughnuts 


One  cup  sour  milk,  Yz  teaspoon  of  soda,  scant  quart  of 
flour,  with  2  teaspoons  Dr.  Price's  baking  powder,  sifted 
together,  1  cup  sugar,  2  eggs,  3  tablespoons  of  melted  lard, 
pinch  of  salt,  big  teaspoon  of  nutmeg. 

Lorene  N.   Ferguson, 


142 


LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S. 


We  Solicit  Your  Patronage 


Demand  Clarified  Milk 
for  Safety's  Sake 


Our  Wagons  Pass  Your  Door  Every  Day 
Phone  Humboldt  9455 

Christianson  Bros. 

Dairy  Co. 

Distributers  of  Clean  Milk 


Clean  Milk  is  one  of  the  least  expensive 
and  most  nourishing  foods. 

We  pasteurize  and  clarify  our  Milk  and 

Cream,  rendering  it  clean  and  free 

from  injurious  elements. 


2700-2710  North  Campbell  Avenue 


For  Fancy  Groceries 
go  to 

GOOCKER 
BROS. 


3240  Altgeld  St. 

Telephone  Belmont  1663 


Telephone  Albany  9814 

ReshoftBros. 

Meat  Market 

Fresh,  Salt  and  Smoked 
Meats 

D 


2204  North  Lawndale' Avenue 

Chicago 


LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S.  143 

Doughnuts 

One  tgg,  1  cup  sugar,  beaten  together,  1  cup  milk,  2^  cups 
flour  sifted  with  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  ^  teaspoon  nut- 
meg and  y2  teaspoon  salt.  Dip  the  batter  with  teaspoon  and 
fry  in  hot  lard.  Rose  Schleble. 

Doughnuts 

One  cup  granulated  sugar,  1  cup  sweet  milk,  4  teaspoons 
melted  butter,  2  eggs,  3  cups  unsifted  flour,  sifted  with  3  tea- 
spoons baking  powder,  ^  teaspoon  salt,  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 
Add  sufficient  flour  to  roll  out.    Sugar  while  warm. 

Mrs.  Ethel  Forster. 


144 


LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S. 


Phone  Humboldt  1938 


Established  1891 


FRANK  BODACH 

Upholstering,    Refinishing 
Pneumatic  Carpet  Cleaning 


Brass  Beds  ReRnished       2047-49  W.  North  Ave. 

Mattresses    Renovated  Opposite  wicker  Park  Hall 


Phone  Belmont  2002 

Senger  Floral 
Company 

(Not  Inc.) 
MRS.  J.  SENGER,  Prop. 

Plants  and  Cut  Flowers.   Wed- 
ding and  Funeral  Work 
a  Specialty 


2330  N.  Spaulding  Ave. 


Telephone  Armitage  5425 

The  Square 

Ice  Cream 

Parlor 

A.  NOTTOLI,  Prop. 


2401  Milwaukee  Ave. 


Griddle  Cakes 


Puffs 

One  cup  sugar,  1  cup  milk,  3  cups  flour,  2  eggs,  2  tea- 
spoons baking  powder,  nutmeg  and  cinnamon  to  taste.  Dip 
the  batter  with  teaspoon  and  fry  in  hot  lard  like  doughnuts. 

Mrs.  E.  Hawekotte. 


Griddle  Cakes 

One  cup  of  flour,  2  level  teaspoons  baking  powder,  ^  tea- 
spoon salt,  1  tgg  beaten  until  light,  %  cup  milk,  2  tablespoons 
melted  butter.  Sift  together  all  dry  ingredients,  add  the 
others,  mix  well,  and  drop  from  a  spoon  on  a  hot  griddle. 
Use  less  milk  for  thicker  cakes.        Mrs.  Brandell,  Omaha. 


Rice  Griddle  Cakes 

Two  and  one-half  cups  flour,  yi  cup  cold  boiled  rice,  1 
tablespoon  baking  powder,  yi  teaspoon  salt,  ^  cup  sugar,  1^ 
cups  milk,  1  egg,  2  tablespoons  melted  butter.  Mix  and  sift 
dry  ingredients.  Add  rice,  then  egg  well  beaten,  milk  and 
butter.     Fry  on  hot  griddle.  Mrs.  Lydia  Patterson. 

Apple  Fritters 

Pare,  core  and  cut  4  medium  sized  apples  into  small  pieces 
and  stir  in  batter. 

Batter — One  egg  well  beaten,  %  cup  sweet  milk,  1  cup  flour, 
J4  teaspoon  salt,  2  teaspoons  Dr.  Price's  baking  powder. 
Drop  by  spoonful  in  deep  fat  and  fry.  Drain  on  brown 
paper  and  sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar.  Serve  hot  with 
syrup  or  butter  as  preferred. 

Lillie  Trodson,  Worthy  Matron. 


146  LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S. 

Pancakes 

Three  cups  of  flour,  3  cups  of  milk,  3  tablespoons  baking 
powder,  pinch  of  salt,  2  tggs,  Mrs.  F.  Lehmann. 

V/affles 

One  pint  of  flour,  2  large  teaspoons  Dr.  Price's  baking- 
powder,  yi  teaspoon  salt,  3  eggs,  1^  cups  milk,  ^  rounding 
tablespoon  butter.    Add  whites  of  eggs  well  beaten  last. 

Mrs.  Louisa  Hageman. 

Waffles 

Mix  together  1  pint  of  flour,  and  1  pint  of  sweet  milk  to  a 
smooth  paste.  Add  ^  cup  of  butter,  scant,  well  beaten  yolks 
of  3  eggs,  then  the  beaten  whites,  and  just  before  baking,  2 
teaspoons  of  baking  powder.  Beat  very  hard  for  two  minutes 
and  bake  on  a  hot  iron.  Mrs.  Olive  Burnett/ 

Corn  Fritters 

One  can  of  corn,  2  tablespoons  of  flour,  2  eggs,  add  a  little 
salt  and  pepper.     Bake  like  pancakes.  Mrs.  S.  Schmidt. 

Waffles 

Two  eggs  w^ell  beaten,  1  pint  milk,  added  gradually;  1 
tablespoon  sugar,  pinch  of  salt,  2  cups  of  flour,  2  teaspoons 
baking  powder.  After  well  mixed,  add  a  heaping  tablespoon 
of  melted  butter. 

Mrs.  Anna  Schmidt,  Golden  Rod  Chapter. 


LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S. 


147 


What  better  habit  to  form  thanthat  of  being 

a  regular  Depositor  in  this  conveniently 

located  State  Bank? 

Second  Security  bank 

■■■■■■iH^HiBHiHHB  OF  CHICAGO  mt^mmm^i^Kmmm^^mi 
MILWAUKEEAVE.AT  WESTERN  AVE. 

Your  savings  account  is  invited  whether  it  be  large 

or  small 

3  Per  Cent  Interest 
Paid  on  Savings 

Open  Monday  and  Saturday  Evenings  Until  8  o'clock 


Telephone  Belmont  837 


J.  H.  Hollison,  M.  D. 

Physician  and  Surgeon 

Chronic  Diseases  a  Specialty 


OFFICE  HOURS 

8  to  9  A.  M. 

1  to  3  P.  M. 

6  to  8  P.  M. 

Sunday  1  to  3 


3434  Fullerton  Avenue 

Corner  Smalley  Court 


Telephone  Belmont  6978 

When  in  need  of  pure  drags 
and  chemicals  go  to 

W.  J.  KAUSH 

Pharmacist 


■  ■ 


2564  Milwaukee  Ave. 

Corner  Logan  Blvd. 
Rainier  Bldg. 


^-^1 


g^JELUEo 


Apple  Jelly 

Cover  apples  with  water  and  cook  slowly  until  soft.     Mash 
and  drain  through  a  coarse  sieve.     Drain  again  through  a 
double  thickness  of  cheese  cloth.     Boil  twenty  minutes  and 
add  an  equal  quantity  of  heated  sugar.     Boil  five  minutes 
Skim  and  turn  into  glasses.  Hattie  Smith. 


Pineapple  Conserve 

One  pound  of  dried  apricots  (soak  one  hour),  1  large  or 
2  small  pineapples,  grind  pineapple  and  apricots  in  food  chop- 
per, using  fine  knife.  Use  1  cup  of  sugar  to  1  cup  of  pulp  and 
cook  twenty  minutes.  Mrs.  F.  A.  Kaiser. 


Green  Tomato  Marmalade 


Twelve  tomatoes,  peel  and  put  through  grinder,  1  lemon, 
cut  fine,  Yz  pound  seedless  raisins,  Ij^  pounds  sugar,  15  cents 
shelled  walnuts,  cut  fine,  cook  slowly  about  one  hour  or  until 
thick.  Mrs.  Tillie  Campbell,  Past  Matron. 


LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S.  149 

Peach  Marmalade 

Pare,  stone  and  weigh  peaches.  To  each  pound  of  fruit 
add  %  pound  of  sugar.  Cook  fruit  for  forty-five  minutes, 
stirring  constantly,  then  add  sugar  and  cook  ten  minutes  more. 
(Remove  scum.)  The  juice  of  1  lemon  for  3  pounds  of  fruit, 
12  peach  kernels,  chopped  fine  may  be  added,  or  1  tablespoon 
of  preserving  brandy  for  each  pound  of  fruit.    Seal  when  hot. 

Mrs.   Susie  Thomas. 

Heavenly  Jam 

Put  through  food  chopper,  1^  pounds  seeded  raisins,  2^ 
pounds  pitted  cherries,  4  good  sized  oranges,  pulp  and  rind, 
5  pounds  sugar.     Boil  forty  minutes.  Ruth  Carlsen. 

Raspberries  and  blackberries  are  the  best  fruits  for  making 
jams  and  require  equal  weight  of  sugar  and  fruit. 

Hattie  Smith. 

Currant  Jelly 

Cherry  currants  make  the  best  jelly.  Wash  and  cook 
curants  until  they  look  white.  Strain  as  for  apple  jelly. 
Measure  and  boil  for  five  minutes.  Add  equal  quantity  of 
heated  sugar  and  boil  five  minutes.  Skim  and  pour  in  glasses. 
Place  in  sunny  window  and  let  stand  24  hours.  Cover  with 
paraffin.  Hattie  Smith. 

Gooseberry  Jam 

Pick  2  quarts  of  gooseberries,  1  quart  of  strawberries,  and 
1  quart  of  cherries.  Stem,  seed  and  wash  fruit.  Add  enough 
water  to  keep  from  burning.  Add  pound  of  sugar  to  every 
pound  of  fruit.  Boil  until  it  is  firm  and  thick.  Put  up  in 
glass  jars  and  seal.  Ellen  C.  Jensen. 


150 


LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S. 


D  E  I  M  E  L'  S 

]V.  JV.  Side  Leading  Furniture  Store 

Furniture  of  quality,  comfort  and 
durability.  Save  15  to  25%  on  any 
purchase,  cash  or  credit.  Present 
this  ad  and  receive  extra  5%  discount. 


IT     IS     SO     IF     DEI  MEL     SAYS     SO 


DEIMEL  FURNITURE  CO. 

2542-2548  North  Avenue,  Near  Maplewood  Avenue 

Open  Thursday  and  Saturday  Evenings 


Edwin  0.  Hult 

Marston,  Friedlund  &  Halt 

Attorneys  at  Law 


n 


1002  Rector  Building 
79  >V.  Monroe  St. 

Telephone  Randolph  1013 


■jWle&ejjr^^ 


Milliner 


'.y^-^       6624 

Sheridan 
Road 


3141-43  Logan  Boulevard 


LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S.  151 

Pear  Marmalade 

Eight  pounds  of  pears,  8  pounds  of  sugar,  2  ounces  candied 
ginger  root,  4  lemons.  Peel  and  slice  pears  very  thin,  also 
cut  ginger  root  thin.  Boil  with  the  sugar  one  hour  slowly. 
Wash  the  lemon  and  boil  the  whole  in  clear  water  until  tender. 
Do  not  pierce  with  a  fork.  Slice  the  lemon,  remove  the  seeds, 
add  the  pears  and  boil  one  hour  longer.  Mrs.  Loges. 


Grape  Fudge  Marmalade 

Three  and  one-half  pounds  of  grapes.  Squeeze  out  pulp 
and  boil  until  seeds  loosen,  then  sift.  Mix  skin,  sifted  pulp, 
3^  pounds  of  sugar,  ^  pound  of  seedless  raisins  and  boil 
fifteen  minutes.  Then  add  2  cups  walnuts  and  boil  five  min- 
utes longer.    Can  in  pint  jars  as  you  would  any  preserves. 

Mrs.  Hannah  Nelson. 


Cranberry  Jelly 

Pick  over  and  wash  4  cups  of  cranberries.  Add  2  cups  boil- 
ing water  and  boil  twenty  minutes.  Rub  through  a  sieve  and 
add  2  cups  of  sugar  and  cook  five  minutes.    Turn  into  glasses. 

Mrs.  Sarah  Mack. 


Wild  Grape  Jelly 

One  peck  wild  grapes,  1  quart  vinegar,  %  cup  each  of 
whole  cloves  and  stick  cinnamon,  and  6  pounds  of  sugar.  Put 
first  four  ingredients  into  a  kettle,  heat  slowly  to  the  boiling 
point  and  cook  until  grapes  are  soft.  Strain  through  a  jelly 
bag  and  boil  liquid  twenty  minutes.  Then  add  heated  sugar 
and  boil   five  minutes.     Turn  into  glasses. 

Mrs.  Laura  Shadle. 


152 


LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S. 


The  Good  House 
keeper  WiU 
Find  in 


POLAR 

ENAMELED 
WARE 


the  ideal  cooking 
utensils  for  sanitary, 
beauty  and  durabil- 
ity. For  sale  in  all 
leading  house  fur- 
nishing departments. 


Manufactured  by 

Porcelain  Enameling 
Association 


WE    DELIVER    ANYWHERE 


E.  C.  Evensen's 

Grocery  and 
Market 


The  Store  of  Ex- 
clusive Quality 
and  Splendid 
Service 


TELEPHONE 

Belmont  4083 


2500  No.  Sawyer  Ave. 
CHICAGO 


LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S.  153 

Tomato  Preserve 

One  pound  yellow  tomatoes,  1  pound  sugar,  2  ounces  pre- 
served ginger,  2  lemons.  Remove  skin  from  tomatoes,  add 
sugar,  cover  and  let  stand  over  night.  In  the  morning,  pour 
off  the  syrup  and  boil  until  thick.  Skim,  add  tomatoes,  ginger 
and  lemon  with  seeds  removed  and  sliced.     Cook  until  clear. 

Jennie  Yerger. 

Tutti-Frutti 

Put  1  pint  brandy  into  a  stone  jar,  add  the  various  fruits 
as  they  come  into  market.  To  each  quart  of  fruit  add  the 
same  quantity  of  sugar  and  stir  the  mixture  each  morning 
until  all  fruit  has  been  added.  Raspberries,  strawberries, 
apricots,  peaches,  cherries  and  pineapples  are  the  best  to  use. 

Nettie  Worley. 

Pear  Chips 

Eight  pounds  pears,  4  pounds  sugar,  %  pound  ginger,  4 
lemons.  Remove  stems,  quarter  and  core  pears  and  cut  in 
small  pieces.  Add  sugar  and  ginger  and  let  stand  over  night. 
In  the  morning  add  lemons  cut  in  small  pieces  and  cook  slowly 
three  hours.     Put  in  a  stone  jar.  Grace  Bradway. 

Sliced  Pickles 

One  dozen  pickles  (sliced),  sprinkle  with  salt,  let  stand  one 
hour  then  drain;  4  small  onions  (cut  thin),  and  sprinkle  with 
salt  and  let  stand  one  hour,  drain.  One  pint  vinegar,  1  cup 
sugar,  1  teaspoon  celery  seed,  1  teaspoon  ginger  (ground),  1 
teaspoon  white  mustard  seed,  Yt,  teaspoon  pepper,  ^  teaspoon 
salt,  small  teaspoon  tumeric  powder.    Let  boil  up  and  seal  hot. 

Mrs.  Jennie  Nachweih. 


154 


LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S. 


Telephone  Belmont  1172 


From  Maker 
to  Wearer 


The  Knit  Shop 

Carl  F.  Schuessler,  Prop. 


High  Grade 
Sweaters 
Jerseys 
Hosiery 


3546   Fullerton   Avenue 
CHICAGO 


Boiler  Piano 
Company 

Gavels  and 
Ballot  Boxes 

D 


2375-81  Milwaukee  Avenue 
2853-59  Fullerton  Avenue 


Phone  Belmont  3387 

Logan  Square 
Dairy  Co. 

Certified  and 

Pasteurized 

Milk  and 

Cream 


3563-65  Palmer  Street 


LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S.  155 

Rhubarb  Marmalade 

Slice  2  quarts  of  rhubarb,  sprinkle  3  pints  of  sugar  over 
same.  Let  stand  over  night,  then  add  juice  of  2  oranges, 
grated  rind  of  one,  1  cup  chopped  raisins  and  boil  until  thick. 
Pour  into  glasses.  Mrs.  Anna  Nelson. 

Carrot  Marmalade 

One  pound  raw  carrots,  1  orange,  1  lemon,  put  through  a 
food  chopper.  Add  water  to  cover  and  cook  until  tender.  To 
each  quart  of  pulp,  add  1  pound  of  sugar  and  1  tablespoon  of 
vinegar.     Cook  until  it  jells  or  thickens.  Ada  G.  Pray. 

Chow  Chow 

One-half  peck  green  tomatoes,  2^  onions,  Ij^  heads  of 
solid  cabbage,  ^  dozen  green  peppers.  Chop  separately, 
then  mix,  salt  well,  and  drain  over  night.  One-half  pound 
brown  sugar,  ^  cup  grated  horseradish,  1  teaspoon  black 
pepper,  1  teaspoon  mustard,  1  tablespoon  white  mustard  seed, 
1  tablespoon  celery  seed.  Cover  with  vinegar  and  let  come 
to  a  good  boil.  Pour  on  the  pickles  in  a  jar.  Do  this  for 
three  days,  then  put  away  in  glass  jars.        Ethyl  Sorenson. 

Pottsfield  Pickles 

One  quart  green  tomatoes,  1  quart  ripe  tomatoes,  1  quart 
cabbage,  1  quart  onions,  2  red  peppers,  1  stalk  celery,  ^  cup 
of  grated  horseradish.  Chop,  do  not  grind.  Add  Yi  cup  salt 
and  drain  over  night.  In  the  morning  add  1  quart  vinegar, 
Yz  cup  mustard  seed,  1  quart  granulated  sugar  and  cook 
fifteen  minutes.  Five  minutes  before  removing  add  J4  t^^- 
spoon  ground  cinnamon  and  J4  teaspoon  cloves. 

Mrs.  Marie  Larson. 


156 


LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S. 


Sunlight — Fresh  Air — Modern  Sanitary  Conditions 
Truly  *  *A  Laundry  of  Superior  Service ' ' 


Our  Ironing  Room 


WHiMdH^i^Mi 


27/D-272J  FULLLFfTON  AVE. 


J 


Bowman  Dairy  Company 

PERFECTLY  PASTEURIZED  MILK 
BOTTLED    IN    THE    COUNTRY 

PURE    CREAM     BUTTER 

4452-4466  CuUom  Ave.  Telephone  Irving  818 


LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S.  157 

Quince  Honey 

Pare  and  grate  5  large  quinces.  To  1  pint  of  boiling  water 
add  5  pounds  of  sugar.  Stir  over  fire  until  sugar  is  dissolved, 
add  quinces  and  cook  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes.  Turn  into 
glasses.  When  cold  it  should  be  about  the  color  and  consist- 
ency of  honey.  Mrs.  Minnie  Mengel. 

Rhubarb  Jam 

Six  pounds  rhubarb,  2  lemons,  5  pounds  sugar,  1  pound  figs 
or  strawberries.  Cut  rhubarb,  mix  with  sugar  and  let  stand 
over  night.  In  the  morning,  cut  figs  or  berries,  and  lemons 
in  small  pieces,  add  to  rhubarb  and  sugar  and  cook  very 
slowly  over  slow  fire.  Anna  Shaberg,  Past  Matron. 

Little  Jerkin  Sweet  Sour 

Wash  pickles  (be  sure  they  are  fresh),  and  put  in  salt  water, 
strong  enough  to  hold  an  tgg,  for  24  hours.  Then  dry  each 
pickle.  Boil  1  pound  sugar  and  1  quart  of  vinegar,  adding  2 
tablespoons  of  mixed  spices.  Put  pickles  in  jar,  pour  the  hot 
vinegar  over,  then  put  in  a  few  slices  of  green  and  red  pep- 
pers and  a  piece  of  dill.  In  three  days  pour  ofif  liquid  and  boil 
again  and  pour  over.  Lillie  Trodson,  Worthy  Matron. 

Tomato  Catsup 

One  bushel  tomatoes,  1  cup  sugar  (heaping),  3  pints  vine- 
gar, 1  cup  salt,  4  tablespoons  black  pepper,  4  tablespoons 
ground  mustard,  4  tablespoons  cinnamon,  2  tablespgons  cloves, 
2  tablespoons  allspice,  %  tablespoon  red  pepper.  Boil  toma- 
toes and  strain,  add  sugar,  salt  and  vinegar,  tie  spices  in  bag 
and  boil  until  thick,  about  two  or  three  hours. 

Mrs.  Thomas  Otley. 


158 


LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S. 


Edward  Albert! 


Diamonds 


fl  Registered  Optometrist  in 
charge  of  Optical  Depart- 
ment. Thorough  examina- 
tion given  free  of  charge. 


1246  Milwaukee  Ave. 
CHICAGO 


Phone  Belmont  9635 


Venetian 

Beauty    Parlor 

Mrs.  A.  Deering 
Jane  T.  Price 


^  Permanent  hair  waving, 
hair  tinting  and  dyeing 
with  harmless  vegetable 
dye.   Marcelling 


3207  Fullerton  Avenue 
CHICAGO 


Telephone  Humboldt  890 

Edward  Fox 

Photographer 

Enlargements  From  Any  Photo 
Picture  Frames 


D 


2003  Milwaukee  Avenue 

Corner  Armitage  Avenue 

CHICAGO 


LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S.  159 

Dill  Pickles 

One-half  peck  of  pickles.  Soak  pickles  over  night  in  water 
with  2  tablespoons  of  salt  in  water.  Dry  pickles  in  morning; 
^  gallon  water,  2  cups  vinegar,  1  cup  salt,  5  cents  mustard 
seed,  5  cents  dill,  alum  as  big  as  hazelnut,  2  pieces  horse- 
radish as  big  as  finger.  Mix  all  together  and  put  in  vv^ith 
pickles.    Seal  in  small  jars.  Mrs.  Harriet  Huehl. 


Chicago  Hot 

One  peck  of  half  ripe  tomatoes  chopped  fine  and  drained  • 
well,  3  cups  of  chopped  celery,  2  cups  of  chopped  white  onions; 
4  medium  size  red  ripe  peppers  and  2  green  peppers  chopped, 
2  cups  of  white  sugar,  1  cup  of  salt,  2  tablespoons  of  whole 
mixed  spices,  6  cups  cider  vinegar.     Mix  all  together  and  seal.  * 


Green  Tomato  Relish 

Chop  2  quarts  green  tomatoes,  1  quart  cabbage,  1  pint  of 
onions,  3  green  peppers  and  1  red  pepper,  1  tablespoon  mus- 
tard seed,  1  tablespoon  celery  seed  and  %  cup  salt.  Mix  well 
and  drain  over  night.  Add  Ij^  pints  of  vinegar,  1  cup  sugar 
and  cook  until  cabbage  is  transparent  (one  hour  or  more). 
Seal.  Mrs.  H.  H.  Whiteley. 


Chili  Sauce 

One-half  peck  tomatoes,  10  large  onions,  3  red  peppers,  3 
green  peppers.  Grind  separately,  then  mix  and  add  Yz  cup 
salt,  Ij^  cups  sugar,  1^  pints  vinegar,  1^  teaspoons  cinna- 
mon, Vz  teaspoon  cloves,  1  teaspoon  ginger,  1  teaspoon  nut- 
meg.    Boil  slowly  for  three  hours.     Stir  often. 

Ethyl  Sorensen. 


160  LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S. 

Chili  Sauce 

One  box  tomatoes,  ^  peck  onions,  6  green  peppers,  8  red 
peppers,  2  teaspoons  cinnamon,  2  teaspoons  cloves,  2  teaspoons 
cayenne  pepper,  ^  cup  salt,  3  cups  sugar,  1  quart  vinegar. 
Wash  and  peel  tomatoes  and  boil  two  hours. 

Mrs.  J.  W.  Thomas. 

Sliced  Cucumbers 

One  quart  cider  vinegar,  1  large  cup  sugar,  1  tablespoon 
celery  seed,  2  tablespoons  of  mustard  seed.  Peel  and  slice 
cucumbers,  add  salt  and  let  stand  for  one  hour,  then  drain 
them  well.  Boil  vinegar,  sugar  and  seed  a  little,  then  add  the 
cucumbers.     Let  come  to  a  boil  and  seal  hot. 

Mrs.    Schneider. 


Spiced  Pears 

Seven  pounds  of  fruit,  4  pounds  of  light  brown  sugar,  1 
pint  of  good  vinegar,  cloves  and  cinnamon  to  taste.  Wash 
the  pears  well,  but  do  not  remove  skin  or  stems.  Let  vinegar 
and  sugar  come  to  a  boil.  Put  in  fruit  and  slowly  boil  until 
tender.     Seal  while  hot.  Mrs.   Bradway. 


Mustard  Pickles 

One-half  peck  onions,  4  heads  cauliflower,  2  quarts  yellow 
beans,  I3/2  dozen  pickles.  Soak  in  strong  salted  water  over 
night.  Drain  and  cook  until  tender  in  2  quarts  water  and  1 
quart  vinegar.  Dressing — Six  tablespoons  mustard,  1  table- 
spoon tumeric  powder,  1  tablespoon  curry  powder,  2  cups 
sugar,  1  cup  flour,  5  pints  vinegar,  1  pint  water.  Pour  over 
pickles  while  hot  and  add  4  green  and  4  red  peppers  chopped 
fine.  Mrs.  Olga  Barthel. 


LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S.  161 

Dill  Pickles 

Wash  pickles  and  lay  in  fresh  water  over  night.  Pack 
tightly  in  jars  putting  stalks  of  dill  between  and  on  top  of 
pickles,  over  which  pour  a  brine  made  as  follows:  Three 
quarts  of  water  to  1  quart  of  vinegar.  Boil  together  and 
while  hot  pour  over  pickles.     Seal  jars  good  and  tight. 

Mrs.  A.  Eggert. 

Piccalilli 

One  peck  of  green  tomatoes,  ^  peck  of  onions,  3  large 
stalks  of  celery,  1  cabbage,  12  peppers.  Grind  together 
through  a  coarse  grinder,  add  %  cup  salt  and  let  stand  eight 
hours.  Drain,  boil  ten  minutes  with  enough  cider  vinegar  to 
cover.  Add  2  cups  sugar,  1  ounce  celery  seed,  ^  ounce  mus- 
tard seed.  Mrs.  J.  W.  Thomas. 

Com  Salad 

Twelve  large  ears  corn,  13  large  onions,  1  large  stalk 
celery,  4  green  peppers,  4  red  peppers,  ^  cup  salt,  1  small  cab- 
bage, 3  pints  cider  vinegar,  1^  pounds  brown  sugar.  Cut 
corn  from  cob  with  sharp  knife,  grind  the  other  ingredients. 
Boil  all  together  for  twenty  minutes.  Take  from  lire  and  add 
two  heaping  teaspoons  mustard  dissolved  in  cold  water.  Mix 
thoroughly,  can  and  seal.  Mrs.  S.  Thomas. 

L.  

i 

Dill  Pickles 

Lay  pickles  in  salt  water  for  24  hours.  Then  wash  them. 
Put  one  layer  of  pickles  and  one  of  dill  into  jar  until  full. 
Use  plenty  of  dill.  To  1  cup  of  vinegar,  4  cups  of  water. 
Fill  jars  with  pickles  and  put  the  boiling  vinegar  and  water 
over  them.     Seal  air  tight.  Mrs.  G.  Samuelson. 


162 


LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S. 


Tel.  Humboldt  9335 


Kuehn  Brothers,  inc 


Retail  Meats 


2142-46  Milwaukee  Avenue 


CHICAGO 


3240   ARMITAGE   AVE.            4142  ARMITAGE  AVE.  3520   ARMITAGE   AVE. 

Tel.   Belmont  7832                        Tel.    Albany    7024  Tel.    Albany    4666 

4816     MILWAUKEE     AVE.      3854   FULLERTON   AVE.  2717   W.   NORTH   AVE. 

Tel.    Kildare    6719                          Tel.  Albany  572  Tel.   Humboldt    1557 

United    States    Food    Administration   License  No.    G-26971 


Phone  Belmont  6133 


ANDERSON'S 

Home  Bakery 


* 


3309  Fullerton  Ave. 
CHICAGO 


Telephone  Humboldt  5067 


Emil  H.  Dortmund 

Milk  and  Cream 

Bottled  in  the  Country 
2623  North  Richmond  St. 


D 


Distributer  for 

Spring  Valley  Sanitary  Milk  Co. 

Kansasville,  Wisconsin 


LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S.  163 

Sweet  Pickle  Peach 

To  6  pounds  of  fruit  use  1  quart  vinegar,  3  pints  sugar, 
Yz  pint  water,  1  tablespoon  allspice,  mace,  cinnamon,  cloves, 
1  teaspoon  of  celery  seed  and  2  ounces  of  cinnamon  stick. 
Put  vinegar,  sugar,  water  and  cinnamon  stick  into  kettle  to 
boil  and  tie  ground  spices  in  a  bag  and  let  boil  fifteen  minutes. 
Seal  hot.  Mrs.  Thomas  Otley. 

Yellov^  Cucumbers  (Pickled) 

One  dozen  medium  sized  yellow  cucumbers,  peel,  scrape  out 
seed  and  cut  in  pieces  about  three  inches  long,  cover  with  cold 
water  to  which  a  large  cup  of  salt  has  been  added.  Let  stand 
for  about  48  hours,  drain  off  this  brine,  rinse  in  clear  water, 
drain  and  wipe  with  cloth.  Mix  2  quarts  white  vinegar,  1 
quart  water,  2^  cups  granulated  sugar,  1  small  handful  mus- 
tard seed,  1  cheesecloth  bag  filled  with  mixed  spices,  2  or  3 
sticks  cinnamon.  Boil  cucumbers  in  this  mixture  until  tender. 
Place  in  jars  while  hot  and  seal.       Mrs.  Anna  Householder. 

Pickled  Cherries 

Pit  cherries  and  pour  vinegar  over  them.  Let  stand  24 
hours  then  drain  and  to  each  cup  of  cherries  take  1  cup  of 
sugar.  Mix  well  and  let  stand  until  dissolved,  then  put  in 
jars  and  seal.  Mrs.  Conrad  Giese. 

Boada  Sauce 

One  quart  green  tomatoes,  2  quarts  cabbage  (shredded), 
5  onions,  2  green  peppers,  %  tablespoon  Tumeric  powder,  % 
tablespoon  white  mustard  seeds,  2  small  stalks  of  celery,  1 
tablespoon  celery  seeds,  2  cups  sugar,  2  tablespoons  salt, 
1  quart  vinegar.     Boil  tw'enty  minutes.     Christine  Peterson. 


164  LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S. 

Chili  Sauce 

One  peck  of  tomatoes,  3  teacups  each  of  peppers  and  sugar, 
2  teacups  of  onions,  %  teacup  of  salt,  3  pints  of  vinegar,  ?. 
teaspoons  of  cloves,  3  teaspoons  cinnamon,  2  each  of  nutmeg 
and  ginger.     Boil  three  hours.  Christine  Peterson. 

Pickled  Cucumbers 


Make  a  brine  of  1  i)int  of  salt  to  4  of  water,  and  pour  it 
boiling  over  the  cucumbers.  Let  them  stand  over  night  and 
pour  off  the  brine.  Repeat  three  times  making  fresh  brinfe 
each  time,  after  which  wash  off  in  cold  water.  Put  in  a 
kettle  enough  vinegar  to  cover  the  pickles,  2  tablespoons  mixed 
spices,  a  piece  of  alum  the  size  of  a  pea.  Let  boil  and  potu* 
over   pickles.  Mrs.    E.    Hawekotte. 


Beet  Relish 

Chop  equal  parts  of  boiled  beets  and  raw  cabbage  together 
until  quite  fine.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  add  hot  vine- 
gar which  has  been  sweetened  to  taste,  a  few  whole  mustard 
seed  and  a  small  amount  of  shredded  horseradish.  Seal  hot. 
This  relish  will  keep  indefinitely.  Hannah  Schmidt. 


Chili  Sauce 

Twenty-four  tomatoes,  2  ounces  ground  ginger,  2  ounces 
ground  cinnamon,  1  nutmeg  grated,  1  dozen  onions,  2  ounces 
mustard  seed,  1  cup  sugar,  4  tablespoons  of  salt,  8  red  pep- 
pers, 8  cups  of  vinegar.  Chop  tomatoes,  onions  and  peppers. 
Boil  one  hour,  stirring  well,  and  bottle. 

Martha  Donovan,  Past  Matron. 


LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S.  165 

Celery  Sauce 

Twenty-four  tomatoes,  10  stalks  celery,  10  onions,  6  pep- 
pers (3  red  and  3  green),  1  pound  brown  sugar,  3  teaspoons 
salt,  5  cups  vinegar.  Boil  about  two  hours  and  can  in  glass 
jars.  Hannah  Nelson. 

Beet  Relish 

One  cup  chopped  onions,  1  quart  chopped  cooked  beets,  1 
quart  chopped  cabbage,  2  cups  sugar,  1  tablespoon  salt,  1  tea- 
spoon black  pepper,  %  teaspoon  red  pepper,  1  cup  prepared 
horseradish.  Mix  with  cold  cider  vinegar  diluted  with  3 
parts  water.  Ada  Pray. 

Yellow  Cucumber  Pickles 

Pare  and  quarter,  remove  seeds,  soak  over  night  in  salt 
water.  Take  white  vinegar  and  sugar  to  taste.  Drop  in 
pickles,  boil  till  glossy,  then  bottle.  Put  white  mustard  seed 
and  stick  cinnamon  in  jar.  Mrs.  Phelps. 

Canning 

The  proportions  of  sugar  and  fruit  used  in  canning  and 
preserving  vary  greatly.  The  amount  of  sugar  given  below 
is  about  an  average  for  canning  when  a  very  rich  preserve  is 
.not  desired.  These  canned  fruits  are  excellent  for  pies,  etc. : 
Sugar  to  a  quart  jar — Cherries,  6  ounces;  strawberries,  6  to 
8  ounces;  raspberries,  4  ounces;  blackberries,  5  to  6  ounces; 
quinces,  8  to  10  ounces;  pears,  4  to  6  ounces;  grapes,  6  to  8 
ounces;  peaches,  4  ounces;  pineapples,  4  to  6  ounces;  crab- 
apples,  6  to  8  ounces;  plums,  4  ounces;  pieplant,  8  to  10  ounces. 

Here's  to  your  health,  your  family's  good  health ;  may  you 
live  long  and  prosper. 


166     LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S. 


Telephone  Monticello  800 


Henry  Frerk  Sons 

Fuel,  Building 
Material,  Feed 


«f 


3101-3135  Belmont  Avenue 


GAINER  & 
KOEHLER 

Home  Outfitters 


VS^^^JE^ 


1209-13  Milwaukee  Ave. 


Phone  Monticello  4 


Avondale  Sash 
&  Door  Co. 


Incorporated 


Everything  in  Millwork 


3509-15  Belmont  Ave. 


Beverages 

Lemonade 

One  cup  of  sugar,  y^  cup  lemon  juice,  1  pint  water.  Make 
syrup  by  boiling  sugar  and  water  twelve  minutes.  Add  fruit 
juice,  cool  and  dilute  with  ice  water  to  suit  taste. 

Mrs.  Harry  Keller. 


Mint  Julup 

One  quart  water,  2  cups  sugar,  1  pint  claret  wine,  1  cup 
strawberry  juice,  1  cup  orange  juice,  Ij^  cups  boiling  water 
and  12  sprigs  fresh  mint.  Boil  water  and  sugar  twenty  min- 
utes, add  mint  and  let  stand  five  minutes,  strain,  add  fruit 
juices  and  cool.  Pour  into  a  punch  bowl,  add  claret,  and  chill 
with  a  large  piece  of  ice.  Dilute  with  water  and  garnish  with 
fresh  mint  leaves  and  whole  strawberries. 

Mrs.  Grace  Bradwav. 


Pineapple  Lemonade 

Make  syrup  by  boiling  3  cups  sugar  and  1  quart  water  ten 
minutes.  Add  juice  of  9  lemons  and  juice  of  9  oranges,  also 
1  can  of  grated  pineapple.  Cool,  strain,  and  add  5  quarts  of 
ice  water.  Lillie  Trodson,  Worthy  Matron. 


168     LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S. 

Boiled  Coffee 

One  cup  coffee,  1  tgg,  1  cup  cold  water,  6  cups  boiling* 
water.  Beat  egg  slightly,  dilute  with  one-half  the  cold  water 
and  mix  with  the  coffee.  Turn  into  a  coffee  pot,  pour  on 
boiling  water,  and  stir  thoroughly.  Place  on  range  and  boil 
three  minutes.  Cover  spout  to  prevent  escape  of  fragrant 
aroma.     Add  remaining  cold  water,  which  perfects  clearing. 

Mrs.  Marie  Keller. 


Iced  Tea 

Three  teaspoons  tea,  two  cups  boiling  water.  When  cool, 
strain  into  glasses  %  full  of  cracked  ice.  Sweeten  to  taste 
and  allow  one  slice  of  lemon  to  each  glass  of  tea.  The  flavor 
is  much  finer  by  chilling  the  infusion  quickly. 

Mrs.  W.  D.  Owen. 


Breakfast  Cocoa 

One  and  one-half  tablespoons  Bunte's  cocoa,  2  tablespoons 
sugar,  2  cups  boiling  water,  2  cups  milk  and  a  few  grains 
salt.  Scald  milk.  Mix  cocoa,  sugar  and  salt,  dilute  with  }4 
cup  boiling  water  to  make  a  smooth  paste,  add  remaining 
water,  and  boil  five  minutes.  Turn  into  scalded  milk  and 
beat  two  minutes,  using  egg  beater.  Mrs.  Sid  Golden. 


Unfermented  Grape  Juice 

Ten  pounds  of  grapes,  1  cup  of  water,  and  3  pounds 
sugar.  Put  grapes  and  water  in  granite  pan.  Heat  until 
stones  and  pulp  separate.  Strain  through  a  jelly  bag,  add 
sugar,  heat  to  boiling-point  and  bottle.  This  will  make  1 
gallon.      When   served   dilute   one-half. 

Mrs.  Elizabeth  Degen. 


Sandwiches 


Egg  Sandwiches 

Cut  slices  of  bread  thin,  remove  crusts  and  spread  with 
creamed  butter.  Chop  finely  the  whites  of  hard  boiled  eggs, 
force  the  yolks  through  a  strainer  or  potato  ricer.  Mix  yolks 
and  whites,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  moisten  with 
mayonnaise  or  cream  salad  dressing.  Spread  mixture  be- 
tween the  bread.  A.  R. 


Cheese  and  Anchovy  Sandwiches 

Cream  2  tablespoons  of  butter,  add  ^  cup  grated  Ameri- 
can cheese  and  1  teaspoon  vinegar.  Season  with  salt,  paprika, 
mustard  and  anchovy  sauce.  Spread  between  thin  slices  of 
bread  after  crusts  have  been  removed.  E.  P. 


Chicken  Sandwiches 


Chop   cold   boiled   chicken    and   moisten    with    mayonnaise 
dressing.     Spread  between  thin  slices  of  bread. 


Lettuce  Sandwiches 

Put  between  the  slices  of  bread,  lettuce  with  mayonnaise. 
A  few  chopped  nuts  may  be  added  to  mayonnaise  before 
spreading. 


170 


LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S. 


Some  other  soaps  are  very  good  soap^  but — 

RUB  NO  MORE  SOAP 

is  better!    Larger  bar,  too — ask  your  grocer 


Oscar  Mayer's 

Approved 
Meat  Products 


Oscar  Mayer 
Chicago 


A  Policy  Placed 
With 

The  Masonic  Mutual 
Life  Association 

of  Washington,  D.  C. 


D 


Thru 
Gil.  Bergslien 

1517  Masonic  Temple 
Chicago,  111. 

will  assure  plenty  of  good  things 

with  which  to  cook  when  husband, 

son  or  brother  have  gone 


JOHN  S.  EDWARDS,  Prn. 


Milwaukee  and  Armitaee  Avq^.- 


LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S.  171 

Pimento  Sandwich 

One  package  Blue  Ribbon  cheese,  1  small  can  pimentoes,  ^ 
cup  shelled  peanuts,  chopped.  Rub  to  a  paste  and  spread  be- 
tween thin  slices  of  buttered  bread.  Elizabeth  Degen. 

Cheese  Sandwiches 

Grate  any  good  cheese,  rub  into  a  paste  with  butter,  se?.- 
son  with  salt  and  a  little  Worcestershire  sauce  and  spread 
the  bread.  These  sandwiches  may  be  made  fancy  by  cutting 
small  designs  from  pimentoes,  beets  or  peppers  and  arrang- 
ing on  top  of  cheese.    Use  only  one  slice  for  this. 

Sophie  Benjson. 

Sandwich  Filling 

1 :  Grind  3>2  pound  of  cheese,  add  Yz  pound  of  butter  and 
one  ground  pepper.     Work  together  with  the  hands. 

2 :     Smoke  butt  cooked  and  ground.    Mrs.  Betsy  Whitely. 

Dates  and  nuts  chopped  together  and  moistened  with  cream 
or  mayonnaise  dressing  makes  very  good  filling  for  sand- 
wiches. A  Friend. 


172  LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S. 


LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S.  173 

"Household  Hints" 

A  spoonful  of  kerosene  added  to  a  kettle  of  very  hot  water 
will  make  windows,  mirrors  and  picture  glasses  bright  and 
clear. 

A  piece  of  Chinese  matting  slipped  between  the  sheet  and 
mattress  will  be  found  decidedly  cooling  in  summer. 

Lemon  juice  and  salt  will  remove  rust  stains  from  linen  or 
muslin  without  affecting  white  goods. 

Alcohol  will  remove  grass  stains  from  clothing.  Soak  for 
a  little  time,  then  wash  in  clear  water. 

Cut  hot  bread  and  hot  cake  with  a  hot  knife  to  prevent 
crumbling. 

Hot  milk  is  better  than  hot  water  to  remove  fruit  stains. 

Tough  meat  will  be  made  tender  if  placed  in  vinegar  water 
for  a  few^  minutes. 

A  small  quantity  of  green  sage  placed  in  the  pantry  will 
keep  out  red  ants. 

Two  apples  placed  in  a  cake-box  will  keep  the  cake  moist. 

A  small  piece  of  charcoal  placed  in  a  vase  with  flowers,  will 
keep  them  fresh  for  several  days. 

Always  cook  vegetables  grown  above  ground  in  salted  water 
and  those  which  grow  below  the  surface  in  fresh  water. 

This  recipe  for  vinegar  has  been  used  in  a  family  for  gen- 
erations. It  is  simple  to  make  and  there  is  a  large  profit  in  it: 
Three  gallons  of  water,  3  pounds  dark  brown  sugar.  Boil 
tv/enty  minutes.  Toast  one  slice  of  bread  a  nice  brown,  spread 
on  it  2  cakes  of  compressed  yeast.  When  water  is  lukewarm 
lay  bread  in  it  with  yeast  side  down.  Set  in  a  moderately 
warm  place  to  sour  three  weeks.  No  finer  vinegar  can  be 
made. 


Washing  Fluid 

One  ounce  turpentine,  dry";  2  ounces  borax,  dry;  2  ounces 

ammonia,  dry ;  1  box  Babbitt's  potash,  dry ;  3  gallons  of  water. 

Sift  confectioners'  sugar  through  a  sieve  to  remove  lumps. 


174  LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S: 

Table  of  Weights  and  Measures 

Butter — 2  solid  cups  equal  1  pound. 
Butter — 2  tablespoons  equal  1  ounce. 
Butter — 4  tablespoons  equal  2  ounces  or  ^  cup. 
Bread — 1  cup  stale  crumbs  equals  2  ounces. 
Coffee — 4  cups  equal  one  pound. 
Currants — 1  cup  cleaned  makes  6  ounces. 
Cornmeal — 1  cup  makes  6  ounces. 
Dry  and  solid  material — 8  tablespoons  equal  1  cup. 
Eggs — 10  shelled  equal  1  pound. 
Eggs — 8  with  shells  equal  1  pound. 
Extract — Yz  ounce  bottle  makes  12  teaspoons. 
Flour- — 4  tablespoons  equal  1  ounce. 
Flour — 4  cups  equal  1  pound  or  1  quart. 
Spice — 2  tablespoons  -ground  equal  1  ounce. 
Gills — 2  equal  1  cup. 
Gills — 1  wine  glass  equals  ^  gill. 
Meat — 1  pint  chopped  equals  1  pound. 
Milk — 1  pint,  or  water,  equals  1  pound. 
Pints — 2  (4  cups)  equal  1  quart. 
Teaspoons — 3  make  1  tablespoon. 
Saltspoon — 4  makes  1  teaspoon. 
Sugar — 2  tablespoons  equal  1  ounce. 
Sugar — 2  cups  granulated  equal  1  pound. 
Sugar — 2j4  cups  powdered  equal  1  pound. 
Liquid — 1  tablespoon  equals  Yz  ounce. 
Liquid — 1  cup  contains  16  tablespoons. 
Liquid — 4  teaspoons  contain  1  tablespoon. 
Raisins — 1  cup  stemmed  equals  6  ounces. 
Rice — 1  cup  makes  J^  pound. 

All  measurements  are  level  unless  otherwise  stated  in  the 
recipe. 


LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S.  175 

Time  Table  of  Cooking 

Baking, 

Bread — (Steamed)  brown,  3  hours. 
Beans — Soaked  and  boiled,  3  to  4  hours. 
Bread — White  loaf,  45  to  60  minutes. 
Bread — Graham,  35  to  45  minutes. 
Biscuits — Raised,  12  to  20  minutes. 

Baking  powder,  12  to  15  minutes. 
Cake — Layer,  15  to  25  minutes. 

Loaf,  40  to  60  minutes. 

Sponge,  45  to  60  minutes. 

Plain,  30  to  40  minutes. 

Fruit,  2  to  3  hours. 
Cookies — 6  to  10  minutes. 
Custard — Baked  in  cups,  20  to  25  minutes. 
Gingerbread — 25  to  35  minutes. 
Graham  Gems — 30  minutes. 
Pudding — Rice  and  bread,  45  to  60  minutes 

Rice  and  tapioca,  1  hour. 

Indian,  2  to  3  hours. 

Steamed,  1  to  3  hours. 
Pie  Crust — About  30  minutes. 
Potatoes — 1   hour. 


176  LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S. 

Meats — Baked,  Roasted  and  Boiled. 

Bacon — Per  pound,  fried,  15  minutes. 

Beef — Sirloin  or  rib,  rare,  5-lb.  roast,  1  hour,  45  minutes. 

Sirloin  or  rib,  fried,  5-lb.  roast,  1  hour,  40  minutes. 

Rump,  rare,  10-lb.  roast,  1  hour,  35  minutes. 

Underdone,  per  lb.,  9  to  10  minutes. 

Fillet  of,  20  to  40  minutes. 

Simmered,  per  lb.,  boiled,  20  to  30  minutes. 
Chicken — 3  to  4  pounds,  1^4  to  2  hours. 
Corned  Beef — Per  pound,  boiled,  25  to  30  minutes. 
Duck — Domestic,  1  to  lj4  hours. 

Wild,  20  to  30  minutes. 
Fish — Thick,  3  to  4  pounds,  45  to  60  minutes. 

Small,  20  to  30  minutes. 

Long  and  thin,  6  to  8  pounds,  1  hour. 
Goose — 8  pounds,  3  hours. 

Grouse,  Pigeons  and  other  large  birds — 30  minutes. 
Lamb  Leg — Well  done,  1^  to  2  hours. 
Liver — Baked  or  braised,  1  hour  to  IJ^  hours. 
Small  Birds — 10  to  15  minutes. 
Smoked  Tongue — 4  hours. 
Pork — Spare  rib,  per  lb.,  15  to  20  minutes. 

Loin  or  shoulder,  per  lb.,  20  to  30  minutes. 
Mutton — Leg,  per  lb.,  10  to  20  minutes. 

Stuffed,  shoulder,  10  minutes. 
Veal — Leg,  well  done,  per  lb.,  20  minutes. 

Loin  of,  plain,  per  lb.,  15  to  18  minutes. 
Ham — 12  to  14  lbs.,  boiled,  4  to  5  hours. 

Piece  boiled  in  cider  or  water,  15  to  20  minutes. 

Time  for  Broiling. 

Chicken — 20  to  30  minutes. 

Fish — Small  and  thin — 5  to  8  minutes. 

Thick — 15  to  25  minutes. 
Steak — One  inch  thick — 4  to  6  minutes. 

Two  inches  thick — 8  to  15  minutes. 


LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S.  177 

Boiled — Summer  Vegetables. 

Asparagus — 20  to  30  minutes. 
Boiled  Potatoes — 1/3  hour. 
Beets — 45  to  60  minutes. 
Cabbage — 35  to  60  minutes. 
Carrots — 1   hour. 

Corn,  green — 15  minutes. 

Rice  in  fast  boil,  water — 20  minutes. 

Onions — 45  to  60  minutes. 

Beans — 45  to  60  minutes. 

This  applies  to  young  and  fresh  vegetables. 

Winter  Vegetables, 

Beans,  shelled — 1  to  1^  hours. 
Baked  sweet  potatoes — 1  hour. 
Boiled  sweet  potatoes — ^  hour. 
Boiled  potatoes — J4  hour. 
Beets — 3  to  4  hours. 
Cabbage — 1^  hours. 
Carrots — 1^  hours. 
Parsnips — 1  hour. 
Squash — 1  hour. 

Time  Table  for  Frying. 
Croquettes,  Fritters,  Doughnuts,  Smelts — 3  to  5  minutes. 

Time  for  Boiling. 

Eggs — Soft  cooked,  not  boiling  water — 4  to  6  minutes. 

Hard  cooked,  not  boiling  water — 35  to  45  minutes. 


178  LOGAN  SQUARE  CHAPTER,  No.  560,  O.  E.  S. 


'We  may  live  without  poetry,   music  and  art; 
We  may  live  v^ithout  conscience,  and  live  w^ithout  heart; 
We  may  live  w^ithout  friends,  we  may  live  without  books; 
But   civilized   man   cannot   live   without   cooks. 

We  may  live  without  books,  what  is  knowledge  but  grieving? 
We   may  live   without   hope,   what   is   hope   but   deceiving? 
We  may  live  without  love,  what   is   love   but   repining? 
But  where  is  the  man  that  can  live  without  dining?" 


A^x.^^^e^'^fL   c^^-^<^-c--e--t^^->^ 


a^-^ 


3 


/  - 


3 


^ 


'  G^^ 


^/> 


/ 

/ 


r> 


/^^T^v^X^^^Zut 


hxJLty^ 


/^^ 


A. 


y^S'  />i^^^     ^-^ 


^^^^Ir-^ 


r>*-^c-^ 


^Ur^ 


iry^.^ 


.    /      _ 


jl^>>r^-  U^e^^C^c-^    ^^iU.'-'^.^^ 


c^  j(t2^^,^^-^^^     /b=^-^'^-^'< 


/ 


'f 


c> 


UNIVERStTY  OF  ILLINOIS-URBANA 


3  0112  060855324 


