lii^^iiMiMiifMEivn^^ 


i 


is 


^ 


We  are 

Going  Out  of 
Business. 

Our  entire  stock  is  now  being  offered 
at  greatly  reduced  prices,  and  we  ex- 
pect to  close  up  our  business  not 
later  than  Dec.  31,  '08. 

You  Cannot  Afford  to 
Miss  This  Opportunity 

of  supplying  your  needs  for  the  Fall 
and  Winter  Season.  A  glimpse  of  our 
counters  will  convince  you  of  the 
rare  bargains  we  are  offering. 


ANDERSON,  IND. 


Entered  according  to  act  of  (Jon- 
gres8,  in  the  year  190k  by  B.  R. 
Inman,  in  the  office  of  the  Librarian 
of  Congress,  at  Washington. 


tb^  Otkrbm 

Cook 

Published  By 

the  Eddies' 


of  the 

U,  B,  Church, 
lyomy  Creek,  Indiana, 


"Press  of  I  he  Middle/own  iT^ews, 

li.  R.  INMAN,  Vrop., 

iMiddletoyftn,  Indiana. 


,^ 


I  ocr  3  li^yy 


^ 


,<v 


a»/7?rf  Brethren  Cbureb,  6onep  Creek,  7nd., 
Greeted  1905. 


Ube  Ibousekeepev's  Hlpbabet 


Always  make  it  a  point  to  do  j'our  best. 

Be  ehaiitable  in  judging  others. 

Comfort  is  one  of  those  prineless  blessings. 

Duty  to  others  must  not  be  over-looked. 

Envious  people  are  always  unhappy. 

Flowers  will  make  a  palace  out  of  a  hovel. 

Godliness  with  contentment  is  great  gain. 

Husband  appreciates  tidiness  and  order. 

Industry  and  economy  provide  for  ''a  rainy  day." 

Judiciously  spend  your  time  and  money. 

Keep  your  feet  warm,  head  coo!  and  heart  tender. 

Learn  the  virtue  of  forgiveness. 

Meditate  long  before  speaking  harshly. 

Noble  deeds  are  the  best  evidence  of  a  noble  life. 

Owe  no  one  more  than  you  are  able  to 

Pay;  and  allow  no  one  to  owe  you  more  than  you  arc  able  to  lose. 

Quality  should  not  be  sacrificed  for  quantity. 

Remember  the  sick,  the  unfortunate  and  the  bereaved. 

Stand  by  your  convictions  of  right,  chough  the  heavens  fi  11. 

Trouble  comes  soon  enough;  don't  court  it. 

Use  your  friends;  and  allow  them  to  use  you. 

Victory  over  weakness,  should  be  the  aim  of  all. 

Watch  your  time,  your  tongue,  and  your  temper. 

Xeoute  well  your.part  in  everything   with  which  you  are  connected. 

you  will  pass  this  way  but  once,  make  the  best  of  the  journey. 

Zealou=ily  strive  to  make  the  world  better  for  your  having  lived    in   it. 


Hn  JEnlargeb  IDieion. 


[A  paper  read  by  Mrs.  Montrew  Sanders  on  the  occasion  of  the  opening  of  the 
basement  of  the  church] 

"Where  there  is  no  vision  the  people  perish"  are  the  words  that  were 
spoken  by  one  who  was  in  close  contact  with  human  life  in  its  various  con- 
flicts and  triumphs.  That  inactivity  is  followed  by  retrogression  and  that 
circumscribed  vision  results  in  loss  of  power  and  opportunity,  is  a  fixed 
law  in  the  spiritual  realm  as  well  as  in  the  physical. 

Thousands  of  churches  in  America  to-day  have  ceased  to  be  bulwarks 
of  power  in  extending  the  kingdom  of  our  Christ,  simply  because  the 
membership  was  content  with  small  things.  Hundreds  of  churches  are 
closed  and  are  mouldering  away  by  tbe  roadside,  because  the  congregations 
lacked  a  vision  of  a  larger  field  atid  were  unwilling  to  pay  the  price  of  a 
larger  growth  and  an  increased  power  of  evangelism.  These  empty  church 
houses,  where  once  the  gospel  of  love  was  proclaimed  by  men  whose  hearts 
were  aglow  with  heavenly  fervor,  and  where  the  struggling  multitudes 
gathered  in  from  the  various  walks  of  life  in  order  that  they  might  receive 
spiritual  food  and  guidance,  have  now  become  mere  habitations  for  the 
straying  bird  that  seeks  refuge  from  the  disturbed  elements.  The  faithful, 
along  with  the  aged  trustees  and  loyal  members,  have  either  passed  on  to 
their  reward  or  lapsed  into  lethargy  and  inditTerenoe.  The  young  men  and 
maidens  spend  their  hours  in  frivolty  and  pleasure.  The  boys  and  girls 
roam  the  fields  and  loiter  on  the  streets.  The  heart  of  the  parent  becomes 
burdened,  and  their  eyes  send  forth  tears  of  anguish  on  account  of  the  iu- 
ditferennce  and  waywardness  of  their  children.  When  we  seek  to  find  out 
the  cause  of  all  this,  we  invariably  find  that  it  is  a  process  of  spiritual  de- 
generation and  decay  that  had  already  begun  as  the  result  of  a  failure  on 
the  part  of  the  christian  forces  in  those  communities  to  break  away  from 
obsolete  customs  and  antiquated  methods,  and  keep  apace  with  the  pro- 
gressive spirit  of  the  age  by  attempting  larger  things  for  the  cause  of 
Christ. 

We,  as  members  and  friends  of  this  part  of  the  christian  church  have 
learned  some  practical  and  very  helpful  lessons  along  this  line  during  the 
last  few  years.     All  of  us  can  remember  when  the  congregations    which  as- 


sembled  for  worship  in  this  village  from  time  to  time  were  content  with 
quite  crude  and  commonplace  facilities  for  the  promotion  of  religious  wor- 
ship and  the  extension  of  gospel  privileges.  No  matter  how  comfortable 
and  cuzy  might  be  our  own  firesides,  we  thought  little  about  it  if  the  housfe 
of  God  was  not  in  harmony  with  our  homes.  We  saw  the  hand  of  pnjgrebs 
as  it  wrought  its  mighty  transformation  as  if  by  the  touch  of  magic,  in 
other  phases  of  human  endeavor,  but  we  realized  that  the  church  was  not 
keeping  pace.  Tiere  came  a  time  however,  when  conditions  began  to 
change — a  brighter  day  was  dawning,  and  a  new  star  was  appearing  in  tlie 
spiritual  heavens  which  destined  to  shed  its  sombre  light  over  the  entire 
community,  giving  new  hope  and  new  life  to  all  who  would  come  under  the 
influence  of  its  marvellous  power.  I  refer  to  the  larger  vision  that  has 
come  to  this  church  in  rejeut  3'ears,  and  tne  rem^irkable  growth  and  material 
enlargement  that  followed,  the  culmination  of  which  we  meet  here  to-night 
to  celebrate. 

In  the  worthy  achievements  of  the  past  few  years  the  women 
of  the  church  have  borne  a  noble  part.  They  have  stood  side  by  side  wiih 
their  sturdy  brothers  in  an  united  etfort  to  plant  the  church  upon  a  higher 
plane  and  a  firmer  foundation.  The  organized  work  among  the  women  of 
the  church  had  its  inoeption  about  five  ) ears  ago,  when  a  number  of  the 
women  in  this  community  met  in  the  old  church,  which  formerly  stood  up- 
on this  sacred  spot,  and  organized  the  Ladies'  Aid  Society  of  this  church 
wtih  eighteen  members  enrolled  at  the  first  meeting.  Mrs.  Sallie  Edwards  was 
elected  president  Plans  were  inaugurated  and  put  into  practical  opeiation 
which  had  as  th;;  chief  (jhject  the  assuming  of  part  of  the  re^jponsibility  of 
providing  funds  for  the  support  and  extension  of  various  departments  of 
the  work  of  the  church.  The  ladies  entered  into  their  new  labors  with  a 
spirit  of  fervency  and  cheer,  and  in  a  very  short  time  tje  Aid  Society  be. 
came  one  of  the  leading  faetois  in  the  church  life. 

A  few  months  after  the  society  entered  upon  its  useful  career,  some 
one  sus^gested  fhat  Honey  Creek  should  have  a  resident  pastor.  The  idea 
was  a  popidar  one,  and  the  Aid  Society  took  up  the  discussion,  and  con- 
tinued the  agitation  which  resulted  in  definite  steps  being  taken  towa'-d  tiie 
building  of  a  home  for  the  pastor  of  the  church.  The  society  came  for- 
ward wlien  the  success  of  ihe  enterprise  was  in  jeopardy  and  pledged 
$100  00  to  a'u\  in  building  the  parsonage.  It  was  a  glad  day  for  the  society 
as  well  as  for  the  entire  church  when  the  pastor  and  his  fajnily  were  moved 
into  the  new  parsonage,  the  first  house  of  iis  kind  in  the  village 

With  the  completion  of  the  parsonage,  and  the  spirit  of  sacrifice  and 
service  that  the  society  developed  in  their  efforts  to  provide  their  part  of 
the  funds,  came  a  still  lartrer  vision  of  greater  opportunities.  When  a  new 
house  of  worship  was  proposed,  the  Aid  Society  was  not  found  laokins  in 
support  ami  enthusiasm  A  pledge  at  $500.00  was  ma.irt  before  the  build- 
ing was  begun.     The  greater  [)art  of  this  sum  was  paid    before  the    church 


was  completed.  An  additional  sum  of  $200  00  wa%  pledged  on  the  day  of 
dedication,  and  now  the  society  is  expecting  to  bear  the  greater  part  of  the 
responsibility  of  providing  for  funds  for  the  completion  of  the  basement. 
About  $400.00  more  will  be  expended  for  these  improvements,  which  will 
make  the  entire  amount  expended  by  the  society  during  the  last  Ave  years, 
something  near  $1200.00  As  to  how  this  large  sum  of  money  has  been 
collected,  almost  every  person  in  the  community  understands.  The  women 
have  been  toiling  arduously,  early  and  late  and  in  many  ways,  in  order  that 
they  might  carry  forward  the  work  that  lay  so  near  their  hearts  Practi- 
cally the  entire  community  has  encouraged  them  in  a  substantial  way,  and 
the  splendid  work  that  has  been  accomplished  is  due  largely  to  the  hearty 
support  received  from  the  many  friends  of  the  socioty,  all  of  which  h  is 
been  greatly  appreciated  by  those  who  have  had  the  work  in  hand. 

Friends,  it  has  been  a  long,  hard  pull.  There  were  times  when  the 
roads  were  not  smooth,  and  the  "weather  was  not  pleasant.  There  were 
conditions  that  made  it  embarassing  for  us  to  carry  on  our  work  Throb- 
bing heads  and  aching  limbs  have  told  the  frequent  story  of  a  day  of  in- 
cessant toil,  but  a  full  purse  when  the  day's  work  was  over,  caused  a  joyous 
spirit.  The  burden  ot  the  responsibility  has  been  .great  and  many  times 
seemed  more  than  we  could  bear;  but  in  the  midst  of  all  our  sacrifice  and 
labors,  we  have  been  happy  and  hopeful,  realizing  our  labors  were  for  Him, 
who  gave  his  life  for  us.  As  we  sit  here  to-night  amidst  these  beautiful 
and  pleasant  surroundings  beneath  the  roof  of  this  splendid  temple  dedicat- 
ed to  the  worship  of  Almighty  God,  we  glance  backward  over  the  pathway 
over  which  we  have  traveled  and  see  how  the  way  has  been  opened  up  for 
our  advancement  and  realize  that  the  hand  of  the  loving  B'ather  has  guided 
us  to  this  present  hour  of  victory  and  promise. 

Does  it  pay?  Have  our  labors  been  in  vain?  Nay!  Nay!  All  our 
labors,  all  our  sacrifices  and  all  our  energies  have  been  transformed  into 
bulwarks  of  spiritual  power  and  have  become  pillars  in  the  temple  of  our 
God.  Our  work  is  only  begun.  This  enlarged  vision  will  carry  us  into 
new  and  larger  fields  of  endeavor.  Let  us  not  relax.  Let  every  step  be 
forward  and  upward,  until  the  last  battle  is  fought,  and  the  victor's  crown 
is  placed  upon  our  brow.  Then-^perhaps  not  until  then,  will  we  kaow  the 
real  joy  of  unselfish  service.  Then  we  will  forget  all  about  our  conflicts, 
our  conquests,  and  our  crosses,  for  we  will  hear  again  the  beautiful  wonA 
which  were  spoken  at  Bothany,  ''She  hath  done  what  she  couli" 


Vour  Baking  troubles 
an  Reduced  to  a  fninimum 


—when  you  use  a  good  grade  of  flour. 
Those  who  have  thoroughly  tested  the 
merits  of  our  >^  ^ 

"Tall  Creek"  and 
"Gilt  edge"  Thur, 

realize  that  these  popular  brands  of 
flour  are  unsurpassed  in  the  production 
of  Good  Bread,  Pies,  Cakes  and  all 
Pastry  Products.  t^  > 


When  you  have  Wheat,  Corn  or  other 
grain  to  sell,  remember  we  always  pay 
the  highest  market  price.  We  also  keep 
on  hand  a  liberal  supply  of  Hard  and 
Soft  Coal.  ^'*  ^*  ^ 


Dankls  &  Pickering  (^ 


3u8t  Zo  IReminb  l^ou 


Some  of  our  friends  who  contributed  recipes  failed  to  sign  their  names. 
We  regrat  this  very  ruuoh,  as  wo  desired  to  have  the  n  i-aes  of  all  coa- 
tril)utors. 

XXX 

Where  two  or  more  recipes  were  alilie,  one  only  was  used.  It  has  been 
our  purpose,  however,  to  use  one  or  more  of  the  recipes  of  each  ooD' 
tributor. 

XXX 

The  committee  who  had  charge  of  the  publication  of  the  "Otterbein 
Cook  Book"  are  grateful  for  the  assistance  of  the  many  friends  who  con- 
trii)uted  recipes  for  the  book. 

XXX 

'I'he  advertisers  who  have  patronized  us  are  business  and  professional 
men  of  excellent  standing  and  we  do  not  hesitate  to  recommend  them  to 
the  confidence  of  our  readers. 

XXX 

It  is  in  order  to  provide  funds  to  pay  for  the  completion  and  fuinisli- 
ing  of  the  basement  of  the  church,  thai  Tlie  Otteibein  Cook  Book  was  is- 
sued. Kvory  peraon  who  purciiases  a  book  will  contribute  to  this  laudable 
enterprise. 

XXX 

In  a  few  instances  the  exact  iimonnt  of  certain  ingredients  in  recipes 
were  indefinite      It  will  be  well  to  use  your  own  judgement  in    such   cases. 

XXX 

Any  n—ipe  ihnt  is  entirely  new  and  untried,  should  be  used  cautiou.^ly 
for  the  llrst  lime. 


Beveraoee 


Coffee 

One  cu|)ful  of  colFee,  one  egg,  one  cupful  of  coM  water,  six  eupfuls  uf 
boiling  water,  soald  a  graniteware  coffeepot,  waab  the  egg,  break  and  boat 
slightly,  dilute  with  one  half  the  cold  water,  suld  egg,  crushed  sliell  and 
coffee,  put  into  the  coffee-pot,  pour  on  the  l)(jiling  water  and  stir  thorough- 
ly. Place  on  front  of  range  and  boil  from  three  to  five  minutes.  Pour 
some  into  a  cup  to  free  the  spout  from  grounds,  return  to  coffeepot  and  re- 
peat. Add  remaining  cold  water,  which,  being  heavier  than  hot  water, 
sinks  to  the  bottom,  carrying  the  grounds  with  it,  and  completes  the  process 
of  clearing.  Place  on  the  back  of  the  range,  where  it  will  not  boil,  for  ton 
minutes.  Tliree  egg  shells  may  be  used  in  place  of  one  egg.  Fov  after- 
dinner  coffee  use  twice  the  amount  of  coffee  given  in  this  recipe. 

— Mrs.   H.  U.  liiman. 

French  Coffee 

1  quart  water  to  I  cup  very  fine  ground  coffee.  Put  coffee  grounds  in 
bowl;  pour  over  about  ^  pint  cold  water  and  let  stand  for  15  minutes;  bring 
n'oiaining  water  to  a  boil.  Take  coff*>o  in  bowl,  strain  through  fine  si(^ve, 
then  take  French  coffee-pot,  put  coffee  grounds  in  strainer  at  top  of  French 
pot,  leaving  water  in  bowl  Then  take  boiling  water  and  pour  over  coffee 
very  slowly  Then  set  colfee-pot  on  stove  5  minutes;  must  not  boil.  Take 
off  and  pour  in  cold  water  from  bowl  that  coffee  was  first  soaked  in,  to 
settle.  Serve  in  another  pot.  The  French,  who  have  the  reputution  of 
making  the  best  coffee,  use  3  parts  Java,  1  part  Mocha,         — Selected 

Vienna  Coffee 

Fqual  parts  Mocha  £;nd  Java  coffee;  allow  1  heaping  tablespoon  of 
coffee  to  each  person,  and  2  extra  to  make  good  strength.  Mix  1  egg  with 
grounds,  pour  on  coffee  ^  as  much  l)oiling  water  as  will  be  needed,  let 
coffee  froth,  then  stir  down  giounds  and  let  boil  5  minutet*;  tlien  let  coffee 
stand  where  it  will  keep  hot,  but  not  boil,  for  5  or  10  minutes.  an<l  add 
rest  of  water.  To  1  pint  cream  add  white  of  an  egg,  well  l)oaten;  this  is  to 
bo  put  m  cups  with  sugar,  and  hot  colfoe  ailded.  — Selected, 


iu 


Chocolate 

One  and  one- half  square  baker's  chocolate,  two  tablewpoonfuls  of 
sujrar,  one  cupful  of  water,  three  cupfuls  of  milk.  Add  water  to  the 
chocolate  and  stir  over  the  fire  till  smooth,  add  sugar  and  milk,  bring  to  the 
boiling  point,  boil  one  minute,  whipping  with  an  egg-beater.     Serve. 

—Selected. 

Cocoa 

One  and  one-half  tabJospoonful  of  prepare*!  cocoa,  two  tableqpoonfuls 
of  sugar,  two  cupfuls  of  boiling  water,  two  cupfuls  of  milk  Scald  milk, 
mix  sugar  and  cocoa,  and  add  one-half  cupful  of  boiling  water  to  make  a 
smooth  paste,  add  remaining  water  and  boil  one  minute,  add  scalded  milk 
and  beat  two  minutes  with  Dover  egg-beater.  — Selected 

Tea 

Water  for  tea  should  be  freshly  heated  and  jnst  boiling.  Teas  are  of 
differing  strengths,  but  a  safe  rule  is  one  teaspoon  dry  tea  to  one- half  pint 
boiling  water.  Scald  tea-pot;  put  in  dry  tea  and  cover  for  one  minute. 
Add  boiling  water,  cover  closely.  Let  stand  3  to  6  minutes,  strain  off  into 
second  hot  pot  A  wadded  cozy  will  keep  tea  hot  for  a  long  time  off  the 
fire.  — Selected. 

Russian  Tea 

Serve  a  slioo  of  lemon  in  each  cup  of  loa  with  ^noar  to  laRte.  la 
lluasia  a  preserved  strawberry  is  added  to  each  cup,  — Selected. 

Dandelion  Wine 

Gather  one- half  gallon  of  dandelion  blossoms,  pour  over  thorn  one 
gallon  of  boiling  water  let  stand  over  night  Strain  well  and  add  four 
pounds  of  sugar  and  the  juice  of  two  lemons.  Lot  stand  five  or  six  weeks, 
strain  ami  bottle  — Nettie  Fleming. 

Grape  Wine 

PrcPs  juice  from  grapes,  place  on  stove  lot  heat  to  the  boiling  point, 
sklro,  sweeten  and  seal  it  in  quart  cans.  — Saliie  Warner. 

Pineapple  Lemonade 

One  pint  water,  one  cup  sugar,  one  quart    ice-water,    one    can    grated 


11 


pineapple,  juice  of  three  letnone.  Make  a  syru|)  by  boiling  the  sugar  and 
water  ton  minutes  A'M  the  [)i!ioapp!e  and  leraon  juioe.  Cool,  strain  and 
add  the  iec  water.  — Selected. 

Fruit  Punch 

Three  cups  sugar,  one  cup  tea,  two  quarts  lee- water,  one  pint  straw- 
berry syrup,  juice  of  five  lemons,  juice  of  five  oranges,  one  can  graied  pine- 
apple. Make  a  syrup  by  boiling  the  sugar  and  water  ten  minutes.  Add 
the  tea,  fruit  juices,  pineapple  'and  strawberry  syrup.  Let  stand  thirty 
minutes;  struiu,  add  enough  ioe- water  to  make  one  and  one-half  gallons  of 
liquid,  turn  into  a  large  punch  bowl  over  a  piece  of  ice  and  add  the  oherncs. 
This  amount  will  serve  fifty  people.  —Selected- 

Dandelion  Wine 

Recipe  for  one  gallon.— Three  quarts  of  blossoms,  one  gallon  boiling 
water,  let  stand  three  days,  then  strain.  Three  pounds  granulated  sugar, 
IJoil,  ekim  and  cool,  add  two  lemons  chopped  fine,  tvv^o  tablospoona  of  yoast. 
Let  stand  five  days,  strain  and  bottle.  Tie  a  cloth  ou  each  bottle,  do  not 
use  corks.  — .Mrs.  Adol[)h  Levy,  Mrs,  Fanny  Jones. 


Choice  Cuts 


can  always  be  found  in  our  ice  clients— the 
liind,  quality  and  In  the  condition  that  you 
appreciate.  We  taive  pride  in  ciittinjj;  meats 
to  piease  our  customers. 
«««Our  lard  i^  pure  and  fresh  and  especially 
desirable  for  bailing* 

Your  patronaj^e  solicited. 

B.  E.  Goff  CSL  Sons, 

Locust  St.,  Middletown. 


12 


Bteab 

The  Baking  of  Bread 

TliG  oven  should  bo  hot  cnoiijih  to  turn  a  piece  of  while  paper  a  dark 
brown  in  five  minutes  for  the  baliing  of  bread,  The  heat  should  inoreaso 
HJightly  for  the  first  ten  roinutes,  and  gradually  deerease  tiU  the  end  of  the 
baking.  The  heat  in  the  center  of  the  loaf  should  roaoh  213  degrees,  other- 
wise  the  starch  cells  will  not  be  ruptured  or  the  ferment  jjerms  killed.  The 
heat  changes  the  starch  on  the  exterior  of  the  loaf  to  dextrine.  If  it  burns, 
the  dextrine  is  turned  into  oararael,  and  has  a  slightly  bitter  taste.  When 
the  loaf  is  removed  from  the  oven,  place  it  where  the  air  will  circulate  free- 
ly  around  it.  Do  not  cover,  if  you  like  a  crisp  crust.  When  cold  put  it 
into  a  clean,  sweet  bread-i)ox,  without  any  wrapping,  as  the  latter  will  give 
it  a  musty  fl  ivor.  The  pan  for  baking  bread  should  not  be  over  four 
inciios  wide,  four  inches  deep,  and  suited  in  lentrth  to  the  oven  When  the 
loaf  is  larger  than  this,  there  is  danger  of  the  temperature  in  the  center  of 
thf  loiif  i!0t  reaching  212  degrees  Fahrenheit,  and  the  yea^t  germs  not  be- 
ing kdicd.  • — Sele(!ted, 

Bread  With  Beer  Yeast 

ll<M,k  and  masli  four  medium  sijjcd  {)otatoos,  add  to  those  about  a 
t'lbli'MpooM  of  Rait  and  one  half  ci.pful  of  sugar,  wtir  tliorouj^hly,  then  add 
two  tidilewpooiifulu  of  Hour,  pour  over  this  oiuuigh  boiling  water  to  scald 
the  Hour  and  [iotutoos.  If  the  potatoes  aio  new,  use  the  water  in  wiiich 
they  word  cooked,  if  tiioy  are  oil  poialoen  use  just  boiling  water  from  a 
kettle,  ^ftor  the  Hour  iw  scalded  add  enough  water  to  make  the  amount  of 
yeast  you  want  [tliis  recipe  is  for  four  or  five  loaves]  allow  a  pint  of  yoast 
for  a  loaf,  ■Hfter  you  have  added  all  the  water  necessary  if  too  hot  allow 
to  oool  until  luko  warm  then  .add  youi-  beer  yeaBt  and  let  stand  over  night 
In  the  morning  dip  (ul  one  quart  of  the  yeaat  to  aavo  for  starting,  and 
thicken  the  rout  and  lot  stand  unill  light  and  mix  Into  dough,  don't  make 
dough  as  stilf  as  you  would  with  any  otiier  broail  Work  your  dough  until 
smooth  and  let  Vini^  again  then  mold  into  loaves 

— Mth,  .Montrew  Handera 


Home  Made  Yeast 

Boil  six  large  potatoes  in  tUree  pints  of  water.  Tie  a  bandlul  of  hops 
in  a  small  muslin  bag  an(i  boil  with  the  potatoes;  when  thoroughly  eookod 
drain  the  water  on  enough  (lour  to  make  a  thin  halter;  sot  this  on  the  stovo 
or  range  and  soald  it  enough  to  oook  tne  flour,  (this  makes  the  yoast  keep 
longer);  remove  it  from  the  Are,  and  when  oool  enough,  add  the  potatoes 
mashed,  also  a  half  a  oup  ot  sugar,  half  a  taulespoonful  of  giugor,  two  of 
salt  and  a  teaou|)ful  of  yeasi,  Let  it  stand  in  a  warm  plaoe  until  it  has 
thoroughly  risen,  then  put  it  in  a  large  mouthed  jug,  and  cjork  tightly;  set 
away  in  a  oool  place.  The  jug  should  be  soalded  before  putting  in  tho 
yeast.     Two-thirds  of  a  uotfee  cupful  of  this  youst  will  make  four  loavos, 

==^Norali  Grillls. 

Corn  Bread 

Two  cups  fresU  meal,  one  cup  flour,  one  teaapoonful  of  salt  and  two 
tottspooufuls  of  leaking  powder,  two  well  beaten  eggs,  two  teaspoon fuls  of 
butter,  a  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  Stir  all  with  swoot  milk  to  a  soft  dough, 
plice  in  a  pan  and  bake  immediately.  —Mrs.  Kda  UteUs. 

Corn  Fritters 

One  beaten  egg,  one-half  cup  sugar,  one-half  uup  sour  milk,  ono-half 
teaspoon  soda,  pinch  of  salt,  two  tablespoons  of  fiour  and  meal. 

—Mrs,  Blanch  Stewart. 

Boston  Brown  Bread 

One  cup  each  of  flour,  white  corn  meal,  sweet  milk,  and  two-thirds  of 
a  cup  of  ligiit  Orleans  molasses,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  ono  of  soda 
dis»4olvod  in  hot  water.  Take  pound  baking  powder  cans,  lard,  them  well. 
an. I  (111  two-thirda  full.  Hut  on  their  llda  and  sot  them  in  a  kcitlo  which  Is 
about  half  full  of  boiling  water.  Put  on  the  kettle  lid  and  keop  constantly 
boiling  for  two  hours.     Heplenish  often  with  boiling  water. 

^Mv».  C.  (J.  DrulGV, 

Corn  Bread 

Ouo  oup  of  corn  meal,  one  cup  of  Hour,  two  lioaping  teaspooofuls  of 
baking  powder,  a  pinc-.h  of  salt,  stir  these  dry  IngrC'dicnts  togetltor,  one  cup 
of  swMOt  mik,  one  wwll  beaten  egg  ami  a  scant  third  of  a  cup  of  iMitttT, 
melted,  stir  this  Into  tho  dry  ingredients  and  beat  until  light  and  bake 
twenty  or  thirty  minutes.  — Mrs.  Lert  Kadely. 


14 


Biscuits 

One  quart  flour,  two  teaspoons  Royal  Baking  powder,  one  teaaprion 
salt  sifted  tniretlier,  add  lard  the  size  of  two  largo  eggs,  rubbing  tbruugli 
flour.     Mix  witli  cold  water,  as  soft  as  can  bo  bandied. 

— Mrs.  Merle  Cummins. 

Steamed  Corn  Bread 

One  egg,  one  pint  sou''  milk,  lialf  pint  sweet  milk,  one  pint  meal,  o, 
pint  flour,  scant  half  tea  cup  sugar,  one  toaspoonful  of  soda.  Steam  tv 
hours  and  then  baKo  one  hour.  — Mrs.  S.  K    Kdwanls, 

Spoon  Corn  Bread 

One  quart  of  meal,  one  toaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  one  teaspoonf> 
of  soda,  one  spoonful  of  sugar  and  salt  to  taste.  Sift  all  together  an 
Bcald  with  boiling  water,  add  two  woU  beaten  eggs,  and  one  spoonful  ( 
melted  lard  and  sour  milk  enough  to  make  a  thin  batter.  Pour  in  bakir 
dirth,  or  pan,  an«l  liake  one  hour.  — Mrs   .John  Wilkinson. 

Baking  Powder  Biscuits 

One  <inart  of  flour,  salt,  four  teaspoonfuis  baking  powder,  lump  buttc 
siae  hu-iii!  egg.     Mis  lig'itly  with  milk.      Or 

One  quart  of  flour,  salt,  two  teaspoonfuls  baking  [lowder.  Mix  wit 
sweet  c nam,  Kilhor  recipe  is  just  the  tiling  to  eat  with  sruolhered  eliicke. 
and  }ir:i\y  —Mrs    L.  O.  Miller,  Dayton,  Oiiio 

Steamed  Graliam  Bread 

Two  eu[)s  sour  milk,  one  cup  molasses  (sorghum  is  best)  one  and  one 
half  teaapooiiful  salt,  one  toaspoonful  soda,  one  tal)lospoonful  brown  Kugar 
enough  graliam  flour  to  iiiaUo  a  still'  batter.  Steam  two  hours  an<l  dry  it 
oven  ten  or  (Ifleen  minutes  — Josephine  Kent. 

Parker  House  Rolls 

S'iuld  (.no  pint  of  milk,  j'dd  two  talilospooiifuls  each  of  butter  am, 
sugar,  one  toaspoonful  of  salt;  when  lukowaviu  ad<l  one- half  cupful  of 
yoHMt,  diaxolvod  in  one  half  cuufiil  of  water,  add  flour  to  make  a  soft  batter, 
beat  well,  add  one  ogg  boaton  separately,  and  flour  to  make  a  dough.  kii«ad, 
Jet  rise  till  it  doubles  its*  si/o,  knead  iigsiin  and  shape  into  rolls,    lot    it   rise 


15 


one  aud  one  half  to  two  hours,  bake  in  a  qiiiok  oven  twenty  minutes,  brush 
with  butter  and  milk.  Rolls  take  thoir  names  from  the  ditferent  forms  in 
which  they  are  sliaped      They  may  also  be  made  from  Vieuna  bread  dough. 

— Selected. 

Salt  Rising  Bread 

A  half  pint  of  now  milk,  boiled,  stir  into  this,  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
irn  meal  and  stir  well,  set  in  a  warm  place  over  night.  In  the  morning 
ike  a  pint  and  a  half  of  warm  water,  soda  the  si/.o  of  a  pea,  a  pinch  of 
!lt  and  stir  in  Hour  to  make  a  thick  batter,  then  stir  in  the  mush  and  set 
a  warm  place  to  rise,  add  a  little  more  warm  water  with  a  tablespoonful 
lard,  two  of  sugar,  a  little  more  salt,  mis  stiff,  knead  well,  mould  in 
ina.  let  rise  and  bake,  when  done  grease  the  top  with  butter  and  let  it 
<am\  in  pans  until  it  softens,  -^-Mra,  Jap  VanMatre. 

Steamed  Brown  Bread 

One  cup  Orleans  molasses,  two  cups  of  swoet  milkj  one  tcatipoon  soda 
isdlved  in  molasses,  one  teaspoon  of  salt,  throe  cups  of  Graham  flour, 
team  three  hours.  ---Mrs,  F.  F,  Miller, 

Corn  Bread 

(Called  Egg  Bi-eadl  in  the  Soath) 

1*        Beat  twi  eggs  well  in  e*.one  pan      Add  two   eupa    buttor-milk,    tablc- 

^oou  sugar,  tablospooa  melted  butter,  lard  or  better,  fried  haw  dripping-iSi 

It  of  salt,  scant  level  teaspoon  soda  sifted  Into   one   oup   each   corn    meal 

'nd  flour.     Make  u  stiff  batter,  adding  more  meal  if    noooasary,    and    pour 

iito  well  oiled  bread  pan  to  the  depth  of  one  inch, 

— Kllen  Gfoenoudyko,  Now  Docatur,  Alabama, 


4 


^  Yeast 

4  One  pint  of  warm  mashed  potatoec;,  throe  pints  of  warm  wator,  one- 
alf  cup  of  sugar,  one  tablespoon  of  salt,  and  ono  oako  of  yoaat,  Keep  in 
aelf  scaler  can  ready  for  use,  For  throe  loaveaof  broad,  ono  quart  of  warm 
water,  one  cup  of  the  yeast,  ono  tablespoon  of  lard,  ono-half  cup  of  flugar, 
mix  stiff  and  lot  raise  over  nljjht,  mould  out  in  loaves, 

—  Mr«.  Kmuiu  ytrouiili. 


1« 


Brown  Bicad 

Two  oups  ot  sour  miik,  oue  half  cup  of  new  Orleans  molasses,  three 
cupa  of  Graham  flour,  one  tabloapoonful  aoda  stirred  in  molasses,  mix  and 
put  in  a  pan  or  baking  powder  cans,  set  in  steamer  over  boiling  water. 
Steam  three  hours,  then  sot  in  oven  and  babe  half  an  hour. 

-=-Mrs.  Tillie  Davis,  Galveston,  Indiana. 

Choice  Corn  Meal  Bread 

One  pint  fresh  meal  and  one  pint  flour,  sifted  with  four  heaping  tea- 
spoonfuls  baking  powder,  a  piece  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  two  eggs,  four 
tahlespoonfuls  of  sugar,  two  teaoups  sweet  railk;  bake  very  quiok;  have  pan 
buttered  and  well  warmed  beforehand, 

^Mrs.  G.  P.  Macklin,  Union  City,  Ind. 

Biscuits 

One  pint  flour,  one  heaping  teaspoon  of  baking  powder,  one  teaspoon 
salt,  butter  the  siae  of  an  egg,  one-third  pint  of  milk  and  water  mixed, 
Siir  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt  together,  work  in  the  butter  till  thorough- 
ly mixed.  Make  a  hollow  in  the  center,  pour  in  the  milk  and  water,  then 
with  a  fork  or  spoon  work  the  llour  toward  the  center  and  ve-'y  lightly  mix 
the  Ingredients  together,  it  should  be  quite  a  soft  dough.  Flour  the 
board  luavily.  pour  the  dough  on  the  flour  and  sprinkle  flour  over  the  top. 
Fold  ovor  fioveral  Umes  with  the  hand-pat  down  gently.  A  rolling  pin  is 
not  needed  at  any  time  if  the  dougti  is  m;ido  right.  Keep  board  well  flour- 
ed or  dough  will  stick  Cut  with  the  lid  of  a  baking  powder  can  or  any 
small  cutter  Remember,  to  have  light  lilscuits,  the  dough  must  bo  very 
soft  and  it  Is  nocessnyy  to  have  plenty  of  flour  on  board  and  dip  cutter 
frequently  in  tho  flour  hut  not  work  flour  Into  the  dough  except  as  a  trifle  Is 
folded  in.  ™.Mrs.  L.  Hi.  Ouster,  Dayton,  Ohio. 


We  ate  Always  Glad  to  See  You 

on  the  *'Sunny  Side  of  lOth  Street" 

—tho  home  of  Marshall's  lOth  Street  Grocery,  where  courteous  treatment 
and  square  doalinii:  always  hritiU  ourouslomers  bai'k  for  larger  purchasos 

/.   A'.  MARSHALL,  i^'ddietown,  i«d. 


17 


Cahe 

Apple  Sauce  Cake 

One  cup  sugar,  one-half  oup  butter  or  lard,  one  cup  apple  aauoe,  one 
toaspoonfuls  sotla,  one  teaspoon  baking  powder,  two  andono-balf  cups  Hour, 
oinnamoo  and  uutmeg,  raisins  or  nuts.  —Mrs.  K.  F.  Lodgerwood. 

Chocolate  Layer  Cake 

Dissolve  two  ounces  of  cbooolato  in  five  tableapoonfuls  of  boiling 
water,  cream,  one-half  cup  butter,  adding  gradually  one  and  onC'half  oups 
sugar;  add  the  yolks  of  four  eggs,  beat  well,  then  add  the  ohooolate,  ono- 
half  oup  oreara  or  milk,  one  and  throe- fourth  uups  flour,  two  rounding 
toaspoonfula  baking  powder,  one  toaapoonful  vanilla.  Beat  the  whites  of 
the  eggs  to  stiff  froth,  stir  them  carefully  into  the  mixture  and  it  is  ready 
to  hake,  either  in  a  loaf  pan  or  in  three  layers,  The  Ia5er8  may  be  put  to- 
gether with  boiled  ioing,  flavored  with  ohooolate, 

—  Mrs.  E.  F.  liodgerwood,  Michigan  City,  Ind. 

Spongfe  Cake 

Two  cups  of  sponge,  two  cups  of  sugar,  one  oup  of  lard,  two  oups  of 
Hour,  two  eggs,  one  teaspooaful  of  ^oda,  one  tableapoonful  of  all  kinds  of 
apices,  —Mrs,  Nan  Ginn, 

Chocolate  Fudge  Cake 

One  oup  of  brown  gugar,  one-half  oup  butter  or  lard,  two  oggSj  one 
and  one-half  toaspoonfula  of  baking  powdor,  ono-half  oup  sweet  milk,  two 
squares  of  chouoluto,  one  toaapoonful  of  vanilla,  twooupaof  Hour. 

—  Mrs,  Vlmo  Mutorspaugh, 

Spice  Cake 
Two  cups  of  augar,  ono-half  cup  of  lard,  four  eggs,    one^half  oup  of 
sour  milk,  ono  tou«poonful  of  aoda  buat  in  milk,  two  and   oiio  half   oup   of 
Hour,  two  toaspuoufula  of  eiiinamoo,  one  te&apoonful   of  clovea,    om   toa« 
Hpoonful  of  utlapii<e  one  half  tea^poonful  of  nutmeg, 

>— Mra.  1).  VV,  Zartuian,  .Mrs.  bla  IMiippH. 


IH 


Spice  Cake 

Two  cops  of  sugar,  one  oup  of  butter,  yolk  of  three  eggs,  one  cup  of 
sour  milk,  one  teaspoouful  of  soda,  three  cups  of  flour,  two  and  one- half 
teaspoons  of  oiunainou,  one  half  teaspoon  of  cloves,  one  oup  of  raisins, 
one  cup  of  currants,  one  cup  of  citron.  When  all  made  then  add  the 
beaten  whites  of  the  eggs;  this  is  Que 

— Mrs.  U,  J.  Carter,  Mrs.  Sarah  Trout. 

Coffee  Cake 

One  oup  of  light  brown  sugar,  one  cup  of  butter.  Mis  butter  and 
sugar  together,  then  add  three  eggs,  leaving  out  the  whites  of  two  for 
icing;  one  cup  of  molasses,  one  tcaspoonful  of  cinnamon,  nutmeg,  cloves 
and  allspice,  one  oup  of  strong  coffee,  three  cups  of  flour,  one  level  tea- 
spoonful  of  sour  milk,  one  cup  of  seeded  raisins,  chopped. 

—  Mrs.  Mary  Cummins,    Middletown,  Ind. 
Mrs.  Rose  Rader,  Sulphur  Springs,  Ind. 

Nut  Cake 

Two  oupa  of  white  A  sugar,  one-half  oup  of  butter.  One  eup  of  sweet 
milk,  three  cups  of  flour,  two  heaping  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powdir, 
whiles  of  five  eggs,  one  cup  of  hickory  or  walnut  kernels.  Cream  tiic  sugar 
and  butter  then  add  the  milk,  then  sift  the  flour  and  baking  j)owder  to. 
gctlicr  three  times  pour  back  into  sifter  and  sift  in  the  sugar,  butler  and 
milk.  Next  add  the  well  beaten  eggs.  Hul)  the  nuts  good  with  flour,  adcj 
the  batter,  flavor  to  taste,  Imke  in  layers. 
— Mrs.  Kulalio  D.  Boyd,  Miss  Margaret  Sohlegel,   Mrs.    Kflle  Sohlegel. 

Sponge  Cake 

Yolks  of  throe  eggs,  one  cup  of  granulatoil  sugar  and  beat  to  a  foam. 
Four  tabiospoonfuls  of  cold  water,  wne  cupful  of  flour,  one  t*»aepoonful  of 
leaking  powder  in  flour,  sift,  whites  of  eggs  beat  atiflf  and  stir  in  cako, 
Flavor  to  lastc  — Rebecca  Clark,  Greontown,  Ind. 

Jam  Cake 

One  cup  sugar,  throo- fourths  cup  butter  boaton  to  a  eroam,  one  cup 
jam,  throo  oggn  well  boaton,  ono-hiU"  teaspoon   nutmog,  one  half  toaapoon 


19 


allspice,  one  teaspoon  cinnamon,  one  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  a  very 
little  hot  water,  one  and  one-half  cups  flour.  May  be  baked  in  loaf  or 
layers.     (Tested;  excellent).  — Mrs.  L.  E.  Custer,  Dayton,  Ohio. 

Rolled  Jelly  Cake 

One  cup  of  sugar,  two  eggs,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  water,  mix  one  and 
one-half  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder  with  one  and  one-half  cups  of  flour, 
add  this  to  eggs,  sugar  and  water  and  do  not  stir  much,  flavor  with  tea- 
spoonful  of  lemon,  bake  in  quick  oven,  when  cool  spread  on  the  jelly  and 
roll  up  in  cloth  tor  a  few  minutes.  — Bertha  Myers. 

No  Shortning  Cake 

One  cup  of  flour,  two-thirds  cup  sugar,  one  egg,  two  teaspoonfuls  bak- 
ing powder  and  a  pinch  of  salt.      Bake  in  a  quick  oven  and  eat  warm. 

White  Sponge  Cake 

Take  the  whites  of  six  large  eggs,  one  cup  granulated  sugar  sifted, 
one  tablespoonful  lemon  juice,  two-thirds  cup  flour  sifted  four  times,  add  a 
pinch  of  salt  to  the  whites  and  beat  until  it  won't  fall  from  the  plate  when 
turned  bottom  side  up,  then  add  the  lemon  juice  and  beat  again  until  very 
stiff,  add  the  sugar,  fold  the  flour  in  lightly  and  quickly  bake  twenty  five 
or  thirty  minutes.     (Add  no  shortning). 

— Sarah  Gilbert,  Straughn,  Ind. 

Watermelon  Cake 

One-half  cup  butter,  one  cup  sugar,  one  cup  sweet  milk,  three  cups  of 
flour,  two  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  whites  of  four  eggs.  Take  out  one- 
third  of  the  dough,  add  two  teaspoonfuls  lernon  extract  to  the  remainder 
and  two  teaspoonfuls  of  red  sugar  In  the  part  taken  out.  Place  half 
of  the  white  dough  in  a  buttered  tin,  pour  in  the  very  center  one-half  the 
pink,  place  in  this  blanched  almonds  or  raisins  in  a  thick  row  for  seeds, 
pour  on  tne  remainder  of  the  pink,  the  white.  This  is  a  beautiful  cake  for 
parties  and  entertainments,  — Myrtle  Craybill,  Dunkirk,  Ind. 

Snowball  Cake. 

Two  cups  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  whites  of  four  eggs  beaten  stifl?, 


20 


one   cup    sweet    milk,  two    teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  nearly  three  cups 
Hour.     Flavor  to  suit  taste. 

— Filling  for  8ame. — 
Two  cups  sugar,  one  cup  cream,  cook  till  thick.     Flavor  with   vanilla. 

— Azzie  Nigh,  Morristown,  lud. 

Oatmeal  Cookies 

One  cup  ot  sugar,  two  cups  oat  flakes,  one  cup  of  flour,  three-fourths 
cup  of  butter,  two  eggs,  one  teaspoon  of  cinnamon,  three-fourths  spoon  of 
soda  dissolved  in  one  tablespoon  of  boiling  water,  pinch  of  salt.  Drop  a 
teaspoonful  on  well  greased  bread  pan  about  two  inches  apart. 

— Mrs.  Martha  Broughman,  Indianapolis. 

Cream  Cake 

One-half  cup  sweet  miik,  one  and  one-half  cups  white  sugar,  three 
cups  flour,  throe-fourtiis  cup  of  butter  four  eggs,  three  teaspoons  baking 
powder. 

FOR  CREAM. 

One  pint  thick  cream,  the  white  of  one  egg,  tablespoon  sugar.  To  be 
baked  in  four  layers.  — Mrs  Sarah  Rich  wine. 

Doughnuts 

Four  potatoes  mashed  without  butter,  one  and  one-half  cups  sugrr 
mashed  in  potatoes,  two  eggs  beaten  separately,  three  teaspoons  baking 
powder,  one  scant  cup  sweet  milk,  butter  size  of  walnut,  little  nutmeg. 
Fry  in  lard.     Tested  and  found  very  good. 

— Mrs  Sallie  Wright,  Lapel,  Ind. 

Good  Sponge  Cake, 

Two  cups  sugar,  two  cups  hot  water,  two  cups  flour,  five    eggs.      Pour 
hot   water  on  sugar,  let  stand  till  cold,  then  put  yolks  of  eggs  in  and  beat' 
long  and  well,  tiicn  add  the  whites  beaten   stirf  and    beat    well    again,  add 
flour  and  bake  in  a  moderate  hot  oven. 

— Mrs.  G.  K.  Hartman,  Hagerstown,  Md. 

White  Cake 
One  cup  sugar,  one  cup  sweet  milk,  onelialf  cup  butter,  whites  of  two 


21 


eggs,  one  teaspoon  vanilla,  two  large  cups  sifted  flour,  two  teaspoons   bak- 
ing powder.     Bake  in  long,  narrow  tin  pan,  frost  and  cut  in  squares, 

— Nettie  Brandon. 

Spice  Cake 

Three  eggs,  one  cup  sour  milk,  one  and  one-half  cups  dark  brown 
sugar,  three- fourths  cup  of  lard  and  butter,  one  teaspoon  cloves,  one  tea- 
spoonful  spice,  one  teaspoonful  cinnamon,  one  teaspoonful  baking  powder, 
one  teaspoonful  soda,  one  teasponful  nutmeg.        — Mrs.  Alice  Mauek. 

Feather  Cake 

Sugar  two  cups,  butter  one-half  cup,  flour  three  cups,  whites  four  eggs, 
one  cup  almost  full  of  milk,  three  spoonfuls  of  baking  powder.  Flavor 
with  lemon.  — Susie  Fadely. 

A  Good  Cake  to  Eat  Warm 

One  cup  sugar,  one  cup  thickened  yeast,  one-half  cup  butter,  three 
tablespoons  buttermilk,  one  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  milk,  one  teaspoon 
spice  and  one  of  cinnamon,  one  cup  flour.  —Charity  Myers. 

Blackberry  Cake 

One  cup  brown  sugar,  one- half  cup  butter  or  lard,  three  eggs,  four 
tablespoons  sour  cream,  one  teaspoon  soda,  one  teaspoon  ground  einnamon, 
one  teaspoon  allspice,  one-half,  cup  preserves  (blackberries  or  cherries),  two 
cups  of  flour.      Bake  in  layers  or  loaf.  — Jennie  Conn, 

Rose  Cake 

Two  cups  of  white  sugar,  one  cup  of  butter,  one-half  cup  sweet  milk, 
whites  of  five  eggs,  three  teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder,  three  and  one- 
half  cups  of  flour. 

Red  Part — One  cup  of  red  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  butter,  one- half  cup 
sweet  milk,  whites  of  three  eggs,  two  teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder,  two 
cups  of  flour.  — Mrs.  Kate  Mad^y,  Mintie  Maddy, 

Blackberry  Cake 

One  cup  of  buiter,  two  cups  of  sugar,  six  eggs,  six  tablespoonfuls  of 
sour  cream,  two  teaspoonsful  of  soda,  three  cups  of  flour.  Spices  of  all 
kinds  to  suit  the  taste.  Last  add  one  cup  of  blackberry  jam.  Bake  in 
layers;  chocolate  icing.  — Miss  Mary  flarter. 


22 


White  Cake 

Two  scant  cups  granulated  sugar,  one  cup  butter,  whites  of  six  eggs, 
one  cup  of  milk,  tliree  cups  of  flour,  two  tablespoons  of  baking  powder  and 
flavor.  -—Mrs.  Emma  Cooper. 

Poor  Man's  Sugar  Cookies 

Two  cups  sugar,  2  eggs,  one  cup  lard,  three-fourths  cup  cold  water,  one 
teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  water,  half  of  a  nutmeg.  Stir  all  together 
until  too  stiff  to  stir  with  a  spoon,  then  knead  with  hands  until  right  to  roll 
out  thin.     Bake  in  quick  oven.     Be  sure  and  try  it, 

—  Mrs,  Emma  Cooper. 

White  Mountain  Cake 

Two  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  butter,  three  cups  of  flour,  one-half 
cup  of  sweet  milk,  ten  eggs,  whites  beaten  very  stiff  (or  the  whole  of  five 
eggs  if  the  shade  from  the  yolks  is  no  objection),  two  teaspoonfuls  cream 
of  tartar,  one   teaspoonful  of  soda.     Flavor  to  taste. — Mintie  Maddy. 

Hickory  Nut  Cake 

One  cup  of  butter, rubbed  to  a  cream  with  two  cups  of  sugar,  one-halt 
cup  of  sweet  milk,  three  cups  of  flour  one  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder, 
whites  of  eight  eggs,  one  pint  of  hickory  nut  kernels,  or  half  nuts  and 
half  raisins,  and  add  flour  and  beaten  whites  alternately.  Dredge  the  nuts 
slightly  with  flour.  '  — Hattie  Harter. 

Good  Cookies 

Three  eggs,  two  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  one  cup  of 
lard,  one  tablespoenful  of  lemon,  three  toblespoonfuls  of  baking  powder. 

— Susau  Baker. 

Devil's  Food 

Two  cups  brown  sugar,  one- half  cup  butter,  one-half  cup  sour  milk, 
one  small  teaspoonful  soda,  two  eggs,  three  cups  of  flour,  one  and  one- half 
teasspoonsful  of  baking  powder,  two-thirds  o^  a  cup  of  grated  chocolate, 
one-half  cup  of  boiling  water  poured  over  the  chocolate.  Mix  all  the  in- 
giedieats  together  before  adding  tbe  chocolate  and  water.    It  will  be  entirely 


'23 


too  thick  before  adding  the  water,  but  this  will  make  it  about  right.  Some- 
times a  little  more  flour  is  necessary. 

Filling — Cook  until  almost  taffy,  1  cup  brown  sugar,  one-fourth  pint 
of  cream  and  a  small  lump  of  butter. 

Good  Filling  for  White  Cake — Stir  enough  powdered  sugar  in  a  half 
cup  of  cream  to  make  a  thick  paste.  — Alma  Addison. 

Eggless  Cake 

One  and  one  half  cups  light  brown  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  one 
cup  sour  milk,  three  cups  of  tiour,  one  tablespoonful  soda,  one-half  tea- 
spoonful  each  of  cinnamon  and  nutmeg  and  one  cup  of  chipped  raisins. 
Bake  in  two  layers  and  use  cornmeal  dressing  as  directed  for  Caramel  Cake. 
— Mrs.  J.  B,  Butcher,  f<!okoiio,  Ind.,  Mrs,  C.  J.  Roberts,  Marion,  Ind. 

Caramel  Cake 

Rub  Sf^ant  one-half  cup  of  butter  to  a  cream,  gradually  add  two  cups 
of  granulated  sugar,  mix  until  white  and  creamy,  add  one  cup  sweet  milk, 
three  cups  of  flour,  sifted  with  two  heaping  teaspoonfuls  of  Royal  B.  P., 
the  white  of  four  eggs,  beaten  to  a  stitf  froth.      Bake  in  three  layers. 

Filling — Two  cups  granulated  sugar,  two  cups  of  sweet  milk.  Cook 
in  a  granite  pan  forty-five  minutes.  When  thicK,  -remove  from  the  stove 
aud  stir  in  two  teaspoonfuls  of  vanilla.     Stir  until  cold, 

— Mrs,  Hazel  Mason, 

Cream  Cake 

Three  egga,  one  cup  of  sugar,  three  tablespoons  of  cold  water,  two 
teaspoons  baking  powder,  one  and  one-half  cups  flour.     Bake  in  layers. 

Filling — One  egg,  two-thirds  cup  sugar,  one  tablespoon  butter,  two 
tablespoons  flour,  one  pint  milk.  Boil  all  together  and  spread  between 
layers.  — Mao  Flemming, 

Ginger  Snaps 

One  cup  sugar,  one  cup  Orlear-s  molasses,  one  cup  lard,  one  teaspoon- 
ful  of  cinnamon,  one  of  cloves  and  one  of  ginger,  one- half  cup  of  water, 
one  even  teaspoonful  of  soda.     Make  a  rather  soft  dough. 

—Mrs.  W.  H,  Barton, 


24 


Neapolitan  Cake 

One  cup  sugar,  two  eggs,  one-half  cup  butter,  one-half  cup  molasses, 
one-half  cup  strong  coffee,  two  and  one-half  cups  flour,  one  cup  raisins, 
one  cup  currants,  one  teaspoon  each  of  soda,  cinnamon  and  cloves,  one- 
half  teaspoon  nutmeg.  — Ethel  Spore-George,  Princeton,  Ind. 

Neapolitan  Layer  Cake 

This  is  made  in  four  layers.  For  the  first  part  take  the  whites  of 
four  eggs,  one  cup  of  sugar,  scant  one-half  cup  of  butter,  generous  one- 
half  cup  of  milk,  one  and  one-half  cups  of  flour  and  one  and  one-half  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  baking  powder. ;  divide  and  color  one- half  with  a  little  red 
sugar,  dissolved  in  a  little  hot  water;  this  makes  two  layers,  the  white  and 
pink  ones.  For  the  yellow  and  brown  layers  take  the  yolks  of  the  eggs 
aLd  repeat  the  above;  divide  and  color  one-half  with  chocolate,  nutmeg 
and  cinnamon;  vanilla  flavoring.      Put  layers  together  with  boiled  frosting. 

—  Mrs.  J.  M.  Phillipi,  Dayton,  Ohio. 

Cream  Cake 

Two  cups  sugar,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  three  eggs,  one- half  cup 
sweet  milk,  two  tablespoonfuls  cold  water,  two  cups  flour  and  two  ttaspoon- 
fuls    baking   powder. 

Filling — one-half  pint  milk,  one-half  cup  sugar,  small  piece  of  butter, 
one  egg  and  one  tablespoonful  of  corn  starch;  boil  until  thick,  when  nearly 
cold  flavor  and  when  the  cakes  are  cold  put  them  together. 

— Mrs.  Levina  Miller. 

Dutch  Apple  Cake 

Two  cups  flour;  one  fourth  teaspoonful  salt;  two  teaspoonfuls  baking 
powder;  one  fourth  cup  butler;  one  egg;  one  scant  cup  sweet  milk;  four 
tablespoonfuls  sugar,  four  tart  apples.  Put  the  dry  ingredients  into  the 
sifter,  beat  the  egg,  add  the  milk  and  molted  butter,  then  the  dry  ingre- 
dients, and  stir  until  smooth,  then  pour  into  a  buttered  cake  pan.  Have 
ready  the  apples,  pared,  cored,  and  cut  into  .sixteenths.  Lay  them  in 
parallel  rows  in  the  dough,  with  sharp  edges  down,  sprinkle  the  top  with 
powdered  sugar  and  cinnamon.  Bake  from  25  to  30  minutes  and  serve 
with  cream  or  lemon  sauce.  — Mrs.  G.  P.  Macklin. 


25 


Angel  Food  Cake 

Put  a  pinch  of  salt  iu  the  whites  of  nine  large  eggs  or  ten  small  ones, 
and  beat  until  half  beaten,  add  a  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar  and  beat  to 
a  stiff  froth;  one  and  one-fourth  cupful  of  granulated  sugar  stirred  lightly 
through  eggs,  add  flavoring,  then  one  cupful  of  ilour  sifted  five  times,  fold 
the  flour  iu  as  lightly  as  possible;  put  in  mold  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
45  or  50  minutes.  —Mrs.  Montrew  Sanders. 

Xmas  Cookies 

One  and  one-half  cups  of  soft  sugar,  two- thirds  cup  of  butter,  three 
eggs,  one  scant  teaspoonful  of  soda,  one  and  one  half  cups  of  raisins  and 
nuts,  two  and  one-half  cups  of  flour.      Mix  well  and  drop  with  a  spoon, 

— Avis  Kelly. 

Surpiise  Cake 

Whites  of  three  eggs,  one-half  cup  of  butter,  one  and  one-fourth  cup 
sugar,  two  large  teaspoons  baking  powder  stirred  in  three  cups  flour, 
measured  after  sifting,  one  cup  milk,  flavor  to  taste  This  is  an  inexpen- 
sive, never-fail  cake,  best  eaten  when  iresh.  ' — Mrs.  P.  0.  Rhodes, 

Chocolate  Cake 

Two  teacups  dark  brown  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  butter  or  butter  and 
lard,  two  eggs,  one-half  cup  grated  chocolate  melted  in  one-half  cup  hot 
water,  one  teaspoonful  soda  dissolved  iu  one-half  cup  sour  milk,  one  tea- 
spoonful baking  powder  and  three  cups  flour. 

—Mrs.  E.  M.  Boston, 

Devils  Food  Cake 

Two  cups  sugtir,  one  half  cup  butter,  two  eggs,  one-half  cup  sour 
milk,  three  cups  flour,  pinch  of  salt,  mix  thoroughly.  Take  one-balf  cup 
boiling  water  stir  into  this  one  teaspoon  soda  and  one-half  cup  of  Baker's 
Chocolate  (melted  by  putting  cup  with  chocolate  in  pan  of  boiling  water) 
stir  into  batter  and  if  too  thick  add  more  water. 

— Mesdames  Levina  Miller,  Lola  Btnckler,  Pearl  Keys. 

Jelly  Roll 
One  enp  sifted  flour,  one  cup  coffee  sugar,   ihree   eggs,    one   teaspoon 


26 


baking  powder.  Stir  quickly,  then  pour  into  square  tin  pan  and  bake  in 
verj'  hot  oven,  when  done  turn  on  flat  surface,  spread  jelly  on  and  roll 
while  hot.  — Miss  Lillian  Fadely,  New  Castle,  Ind, 

Spice  Cake 

Two  cups  sugar,  two  egg  yolks,  one-half  cup  melted  lard  and  a  pinch 
of  salt,  one  and  one-half  cnp  sour  milk,  one  teaspoon  soda,  two  teaspoons 
baking  powder,  one  teaspoon  cinnamon,  one  teaspoon  cloves,  one  teaspoon 
spice,  one  teaspoon  nutmeg,  three  or  four  cups  flour  and  one-half  box  of 
raisins.  — Mrs,   Mary  Houren,  New  Castle,  Ind. 

Maud  S.  Cake 

Custard,  five  tablespoonfuls  of  granulated  sugar,  eight  of  Baker's 
chocolate,  one-half  cup  of  milk,  boil  until  thick,  and  when  cool,  stir  into 
batter  made  as  follows:  one  and  one-half  cups  of  white  or  brown  sugar, 
scant  half  cup  of  butter,  three  eggs,  one  half  cup  of  sifted  flour,  one-half 
cup  milk;  stir  batter  and  custard  together,  add  one  and  one. half  cups  of 
flour  with  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 
Good  baked  solid  or  in  layers,  with  white  icing. 

— Mrs.  Dora  Day,  Springport,  Ind. 

Doughnuts 

Two  eggs,  one  half  cup  granulated  sugar,  one  cup  sour  milk,  one  tea- 
spoonful  soda,  three  tablespoonfuls  melted  lard,  one  half  teaspoonful  salt, 
flour  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Roll  about  half  an  inch  thick,  cut  with  a 
doughnut  cutter  and  fry  in  hot  lard.  When  all  are  done  put  a  few  in  a 
paper  sack  in  which  there  is  some  pulverized  sugar  and  shake  until  they 
are  covered  with  sugar.  — 011a  Davis. 


Sethd.  Wills, 

AUCTIOJ^EER. 

Sulphur  Springs,  Route  I.  Mt.  Summit  Independant  Phone. 

SATISFACTION  GUARANTEED, 


27 


Cinnamon  Cake 

Three  oups  of  thick  bread  sponge,  one  cup  of  butter,  two  oups  of 
sugar,  one-half  cup  raisins  dredged  with  flour,  three  eggs,  one-half  tea- 
spoonful  soda,  one  teaspoonful  cioves,  two  teaspoonfuU  oinnanaou.  Mix 
with  hands  and  let  raise  and  bake  in  slow  ovep, 

■—Mrs,  JLlzzie  Delllnger, 

Raised  Loaf  Cake 

Three  eggs,  one  cup  water,  two  cups  sugar,  one-balf  oup  butter,  three 
cups  flour,  two  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  one  tablespoonful  ground 
cinnamon  naixed  in  a  little  of  the  dough  and  dropped  around  through  the 
cake  as  it  is  put  in  the  mould.  — Sallie  Waroer, 

Ribbon  Cake 

Two  cups  soft  white  sugar,  two-thirda  cup  butter,  cne  cup  Bweot  milk, 
three  and  one-half  cups  sifted  flour,  whites  of  flve  eggs,  two  heaping  tea. 
fspooufuls  baking  powder.  For  pink  layers  take  one  half  the  mixture  and 
add  a  few  drops  of  fruit  coloring.      Bake  in  four  layers. 

Pilling— One  and  one-half  oupa  sugar,  one-half  oup  water,  boil  till  it 
will  form  a  soft  ball  when  put  in  cold  water,  then  pour  over  the  whites  of 
two  eggs  well  beaten  and  boat  till  stlfl". 

—Miss  Mollle  Schlegel, 

Light  Bread  Dough  Cake 

Three  cups  light  bread  dough  when  bread  la  ready  for  loaves  one  and 
one  half  cups  A  sugar,  two  eggs,  one  teaspoonful  soda  in  throe  tablespoon- 
ful-s  of  cold  coffee,  one  cup  raisins,  one  cup  chopped  English  walnuts,  oiiO 
teaspoonful  each  of  ground  cinnamon  and  cloves,  one  grated  nutmeg.  Roll 
raisins  and  nuts  in  flour  and  add  Wat.  Mix  thoroughly  and  put  Into  well 
buttered  cake  pan  to  rise,     Bake  in  moderate  oven. 

--.Mrs,  Minnie  Forrest,  Dalevllle,  Ind. 

Log  Cabin  Cake 

'lake  one  and  one-half  oups  of  sugar  and  mix  with  one^half  oup  of 
butter,  then  add  one-half  cup  of  sour  Ojllk.  the  yolkg  of  three  eggfl,  one 
teaspoonful  of  soda  and  Hour  enoug:h  to  make  a  stiff  dough.     Cut  in  titript* 


28 


and  bake  in  a  quick  oven.      The  strips  can  be  made  of  different    lengths  so 
when  stacked  it  will  give  the  appearance  of  a  log  cabin. 

Boiled  Icing— Whites  of  three  eggs  and  three  cups  of  white  sugar. 
Use  grated  cocoanut  and  lemon  flavoring. 

— Mrs.  Anna  Good,  Honey  Cieek.  lud 

Chocolate  Cake 

Boil  together  one  half  cup  of  grated  chocolate,  one-half  cup  of 
sweet  milk,  a  one-half  cup  brown  sugar,  when  thi'sk  as  cream  take  from 
the  fire  and  cool.  Cream  one-half  cup  of  butter  with  one  cup  of  sugar  and 
add  two  eggs  beaten  light,  two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  milk  and  vanilla,  mix 
with  the  above  mixture  and  add  one  pint  of  flour  and  two  teaspoons  of 
baking   powder. 

loiug — tioil  one  cup  of  sugar  with  one  q^iarter  cup  of  w  iter  until  it 
will  string.  Beat  the  white  of  one  egg  until  sliff  and  into  it  gradually  beat 
the  syrup  flavor  with  vanilla.  —Mrs.  C.  E.  Hunt. 

Prize  Cake 

Three  eggs,  one  cup  flour,  two  cups  seeded  dates,  one  cup  of  Kaglish 
walnuts,  one-half  teaspoon ful  baking  powder.  Chop  dales  and  walnuts 
and  use  part  of  the  cup  of  flour  to  dredge  them  before  straining  info  cake. 
This  is  fine.  — Miss  Ijou  A.  KubusU. 

Missionary  Cake 

One  cup  pulverized  sugar,  one  cu[)  melted  l)utter,  (or  one-fonrtU  cup 
cocoanut  oil),  one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  one  egg,  two  level  teaspoons  baking 
powder  (or  ouiit  baking  powder  if  using  self  rising  flour),  add  any  flavoring 
preferred.  Stir  all  together  to  the  consistence  of  a  pound  cake.  Bake 
quickly.  Place  diflference  in  the  cost  of  this  cake  and  the  one  you  have 
in  your  missionary  mite-box.  You  will  be  pleased  with  the  cake  and  your- 
eelf.  — Ellen  Grocndyke,  New  Decatur,  Ala. 

Doughnuts 

One  cup  of  sugar,  two  eggs,  two  tablespoons  of    m^ited    butter,    two- 
thirds  cup  of  sour  milk,  two  teaspoons  of  creara  tartar,  one   even    teaspoon 
of  soda,  flour  enough  to  swell,  salt  and  nutmeg. 

— Sarah  Vatcs. 


2Q 


Puff  Cake 

Beat  to  a  cream,  one-half  teaciipful  of  buiter  and  one  teacupful  of 
Bugar.  Add  in  the  order  named,  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  well  beaten,  one- 
third  teacupful  of  milk,  one  and  one-half  tea  cupful  sifted  (lour,  whiles  of 
two  eggs  beaten  stiff  and  one  heaping  teaspoouful  of  baking  po«\der8 
sifted  in  the  last  thing.     Flavor  with  vanilla  and  bake  in  a  loaf, 

— Alma  Addison. 

Cream  Cake 

Requires,  one  cup  sugar,  l)reak  one  egg  in  cup  and  fill  cup  up  with 
Bwcet  crearr:.  Two  teaspooufuls  baking  powders.  Lemon  extract.  Thick- 
en with  flour.  — Cleo  Young. 

White  Mountain  Cake 

One-half  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  milk,  two  tea- 
spooiifuls  of  baking  powder,  the  whites  of  four  eggs  and  three  cups  of  flour 
Bake  in  jelly  pans,  —Mrs.  G.  W.    Lewis, 

Orange  Short  Cake 

To  cups  sugar,  one  half  cup  of  butter,  tliree  eggs,  one  cup  sweet 
milk,  three  cups  of  flour,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder.  Hake  in  a 
long  pan,  v/hen  done,  siolit  in  two  and  spread  thick  with  icing,  then  add 
chunks  of  oranges  and  place  together.      Serve  with  whipped  cream, 

—  Mrs.  Jap  Van  Matre. 

Delicate  Cake 

Whites  of  four  eggs,  well  beaten,  one  cupful  white  sugar,  one-baif 
cupful  sweet  milk,  two  cupfuls  flour,  two  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder, 
flavor  with  vanilla,      Bake  in  two  layers  using  any  filling  desired, 

— Mrs,  N,  P.  France. 

Strawberry  Short  Cake 

One  large  cup  of  flour,  one  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  butler-  Mix  with  milk  and  bake  in 
two  pie  tins.  Chop  one  quart  of  strawberries,  add  one  cup  of  sugar,  put 
between  cake  and  serve.  —Miss  Maude  Nugen, 


30 


White  Cake 

Whites  of  four  eggs,  one   and   one    fourth   oups    sugar,    two   cupfuls 
flour,  (sifted  five  times),  rounding   teaspoon    baking  powder,  three-fourths 
cup  of  sweet  milk,  one-half  oup  butter,  flavor  to  taste. 
Mrs.  Annette  F.  Hughes,  Blooraington,  Ind.,    Mrs.  W.    W.   Fadley,    New 
Castle,  Ind. 

Ten  Minute  Sponge  Cake 

Two  eggs,  one  cup  sugar,  three  tablepoonfuls  of  water,  one  teaspoon- 
ful  of  baking  powder.     Beat  ten  minutes. 

— Mrs.  Henrietta  Ransburg 

Cookies 

One  egg,  one  cup  of  lard,  one  and  one.fi)urlh  cup  of  sugar,    one    cup    of 
Bour  milk,  one  teaspoon  of  baking  powder  and  one  teaspoon  of  soda. 

— Mrw.  Martha  Abshire 


All 
The 


I  From  the   fact   that  1  do  not  have 

high  rents,    taxes  and   other   "ex- 

HSlVC  pensive  luxuries",   buying  in    large 

quantities,  and  for  cash,  enables 
me  to  offer  goods  at  a  Lower  Price 
than  many  of  my  competitors.  Try 
me    for     Dry     Goods,    Groceries, 

Advantage    Notions,  etc. 

10%  to  40%  Saved 

on  your  Buvgy  if  you  buy  it  here. 
Farm  Implements  of  all  kinds  at  Reasonable  Price's. 

SCOTT  LEWIS       Wechanlcsbufg,  Ind, 


81 


Lemon  Jelly  Cake 

One  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  sugar  creamed  to)fctUer,  tbreo  eggs,  ono 
cup  of  water,  three  cups  flour,  three  level  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder. 

Filling  for  cake — Grated  rind  of  one  lemon,  the  strained  juiee,  one- 
half  cup  of  boiling  water,  two  cups  sugar,  whites  of  two  eggs,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  flour  mixed  with  cold  water  and  one  teaspoonful  of  melted 
butter.     Cook  together  m  double  boiler,  adding  beaten  whites  labt, 

— Mrs.  Edward  S.  Walker. 

One  Egg  Cake 

One  cup  sugar,  lump  butter  size  of  an  egg,  one  scant  cup  sweet  milk, 
one  egg,  beaten  all  together,  two  cups  flour,  two  teaspons  baking  powder, 
flavor  to  taste.  — Mrs.  Susie^Wise,  Mrs.  Jacob  Fadely. 

Cookies 

Four  fresh  eggs,  beaten  stiff,  one  cup  fresh  butter  and  two  cups  sugar 
creamed  together,  add  eggs,  two  teaspoons  vanilla,  four  cups  flour,  two 
teaspoons  baking  powder  sifted  with  flour  twice, 

— Alice  Shoemaker, 

Devil's  Food  Cake 

Two  cups  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  butter,  one-half  cup  of  sour  milk, 
three  cups  of  flour,  one-half  cup  of  hot  water,  one- half  cup  of  chocolate, 
three  eggs,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda 

Filling— Two  cups  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  butter,  oue-half  cup  of 
sweet  cream,  — Mrs.  Sarah  Schlogel,  Daleville,  Ind. 

Doughnuts 

Two  eggs,  one  and  one-half  pint  pulverized  sugar,  five  tablespoons 
melted  butter,  one  pint  sweet  milk,  three  teaspoons  baking  powder,  flavor 
to  taste;  roll  \u  flour,  and  fry  in  hot  lard.  After  frying  roll  in  pulverized 
augar.  — Laura  Paddock,  New  Castle,  lod. 

Eggless  Fruit  Cake 
One  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  sour  milk,    one-half  cup  of 
butler,  one  teaspoon  soda  in  milk,  three  level  cups  of   flour,    one-half  tea- 
spoon each  of  cinnamon,  cloves  and  nutmeg  and  one  tea  cup  of  raisins  well 
floured.  — Rula  Thompson, 


32 


Spice  Cake 

Three  cups  of  flour,  two  cups  of  brown  sugar,  one  cup  of  sour  milk, 
one-half  cup  of  buiter,  two  teaspoons  of  cloves,  two  teaspoons  of  cinnamon, 
two  teaspoons  of  pUspice,  one  teaspoon  of  soda  tUssolved  in  the  milk,  four 
eggs.  — Mrs.  C  E.  Elstabrook. 

Buttermilk  Cake 

One  egg,  two  cups  of  buttermilk,  two  cups  sugar,  four  cups  flour,  one- 
half  cup  butter,  scant  two  cups  raisins,  one  teaspoon  eacli  ground  c'oves 
and  cinnamon  two  level  teaspoons  each  of  soda  and  baking  powder  and  a 
pinch  of  salt.      One-half  of  quantity  will  make  a  very  good  sized  cake. 

— Mrs.  Mildred  Edwards 

Gem   Cakes 

One  cup  sour  milk,  one  and  one  half  cup  sugar,  one  half  teaspoon  su(ia 
one  teaspoon  baking  powder,  one  third  cup  butter,  three  cups  of  flour,  nut- 
meg.    Bake  in  greased  gem  pans. 

— Mrs    Alice  C  ran  or,  Muucie,  Ind. 

Angel  Food  Cake 

Whites  of  eight  eggs,  one  cup  granulated  sugar,  one  cup  flour,  one  tea 
spoonful  of  cream  tartar,  pinch  of  salt.  Beat  eags  very  stitf  add  cream  of 
tartar;  have  sugar  and  flour  sifted  separately  Ave  times,  fold  first  the  sugar 
then  the  flour  in  the  beaten  whites,  flavor  with  vanilla,  bake  in  slow  oven 
35  minutes.  — Amanda  Benbow. 

Minnehaha  Cake 

Two  cups  of  sugar,  one  half  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  milk,  tue  whites 
of  six  eggs,  three  cups  of  flour,  three  teaspoonfuls  Royal  Baking  Powder. 
Bake  in  layers. 

Make  a  frosting  as  follows: — Two  cups  granulated  sugar  and  whites  of 
two  eggs,  pour  Ave  or  six  teaspoonfuls  of  boiling  water  over  sugar  aud  let 
boil  until  it  threads  when  poured  from  spoon,  pour  slowly  over  the  beaten 
whites  beating  until  cool.  Mix  with  the  icing  one  cup  small  raisins  and 
one  cup  of  English  walnuts  cut  the  size  of  the  raisins.  Spread  between 
layers  and  on  top  of  the  cake.     Flavor  to  suit. 

— Mrs.  J.  W.  Farrell. 


33 


Quisset  Cake 

One  half  cup  butter  rubbed  to  a  cretim  with  one  and  one  half  cups 
sugar,  add  3'olks  cf  three  eggs  well  beaten  with  two  tablespoons  of  aiilk, 
one  and  one-half  cups  flour  (heaping)  in  which  has  been  sifted  two  level 
teaspoons  baking  powder,  one  half  cup  milk,  six  tablespoons  chocolate 
melted  over  hot  water,  and  lastly  whites  of  three  eggs.      Bake  lu  two  layers. 

Frosting — two  cups  granulated  sugar,  three- fourths  cup  milk,  one 
ounce  butter.      Boil  fifteen  minutes,  beat  till  thick,  spread  while  warm. 

— Mrs.  J.  B.  Frazier. 

Chocolate  Cake 

Two  cups  of  brown  sugar,  one-half  cup  batter,  two  eggs,  one-half  cf.p 
of  buttermilk,  three  cups  flour,  use  these  all  together,  then  into  one-half 
cup  of  boiling  water  stir  one  teaspoonful  soda  and  one  square  grated 
chocolate,  one  teaspoonful  vanilla;  bake  in  layers 

For  the  icing  take  one  cup  sugar,  one  quarter  cup  butter,  one- half  cup 
sweet  cream  and  a  little  chocolate;  cook  until  it  threads. 

—Mrs,  Ora  Harlon, 

Christmas  Cakes 

One  and  one-half  cup  of  soft  sugar,  two  thirds  cup  of  butter,  three 
eggs,  two  and  one  half  <;ups  of  floar,  one  scant  teaspoon  of  soda,  one  and 
one-half  cups  of  raisin^  and  nuts  chopped,  mis  one-half  cup  of  floar  with 
the  nuts,  then  drop  in  the  pan  with  a  teaspoon. 

—Mrs.  A.  S.  Miller. 

Emergency  Cake 

One  cup  white  sugar,  two  eggs,  one  half  cup  sweet  milk,  one  table- 
spoonful  butter,  one  and  one-ualf  cups  flour,  one  teaspoonful  baking 
powder,  flavor  to  taste,  drop  in  gem  pans  and  bake, 

—Mrs.  W.  D.  Klliott. 

Ginger  Cookies 

One  pint  sugar,  one  pint  lard,  one  pint  mola^sses,  half  pint  hot  water, 
one  teaspoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  the  hot  water,  one  teaspoonful  of 
girger.  — Mrs    Klizabeth  Good. 


34 


Plain  Cookies 

One  half  cup  butter,  one-half  cup  lard,  two  cups  sugar,  one  cup  sweet 
milk,  two  eggs,  six  level  teaspoons  baking  powder,  four  cups  flour. 

— Mrs,  Chas   J   Wheeler,  Noblesville,  Ind. 

Orange  Cake 

One-half  cup  butter,  two  cups  sugar,  mix  into  a  cream.  Three  eggs 
beaten  light,  two  teaspoons  baking  powder,  well  sifted  with  three  cups 
flour,  grated  rind  and  juice  of  one  orange  with  water  enough  to  make  a  cup- 
ful. Mix  first  the  eggs  with  butter  and  sugar,  second,  the  water  and  orange 
juice,  then  the  flour.      Beat  all  together  and  bake  in  three  layers. 

Filling — Grated  rind  and  juice  of  one  orange  with  enough  water  added 
to  make  one  cupful,  one  egg,  one  cup  sugar,  and  two  tablespoons  flour. 
Mix  all  well  together  and  cook  in  double  boiler  until  thick,  when  cold 
spread  between  layers. 

— Mrs.  Martha  Taylor,  Marion,  Ind. 


^  .^ 


l^- 


^j 


:-ir) 


Lemon  Cake 

One  cup  of  sugar,  six  tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butter,  one  oup  of 
sweot  milk,  two  egga,  two  and  one-half  cups  of  (lour,  two  teaspoonfula  of 
baking  powder,  flavor  with  lemon. 

6 

Icing—One  grated  lemon,  one- half  eup  of  water,  one  oup  of  sugar,  one 
tablespoonfnl  of  flour,  one  taWespoon  of  butter, 

— Ida  Addison 

Sponge  Cake 

One  oup  bread  aponge,  one  egg,  one  teaspoonful  of  cloves  and  cin- 
namon, one  cup  granulated  sugar,  three  tablespoonfuls  of  warm  water,  one 
teaspoonful  of  soda,  one-half  cup  raelied  lard,  one  cup  flour. 

-^  Mi^e  G oldie  Bowman. 

Layer  Cake 

Two  cupa  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  one  cup  sweet  milk,  three  cupe 
flour,  whites  of  two  eggs,  two  teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  flavor  with 
lemon.  — Mrs    Eflie  Griffls, 

National  Cash  Regfister  Cake 

Two  cups  sugar,  one  oup  milk,  two-thirds  cups  butter,  three  oups  flour, 
four  egga,  cwo  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

-Mrs.  H,  G.  Myerg,  Dayton,  Ohio. 

Cookies 

Two  eupa  sugar,  two  oggs  (beaten  and  added  Uist)  one-hftlf  oup  lard 
and  butter,  two  tablespoonfuls  baking  powder,  one  cup  milk,  pinch  of  salt, 
enough  flour  to  roll  out,  flavor.  -  Mrs.  R.  J.  Fadely, 

White  Cake 

'Ywn  eupe  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  three  cups  flour,  one  cup  awoot 
milk,  two  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  whites  of  three  egga 

— Mesdames  Rva  Showaltor,  Millie  Miller,  Milo  Itailoy, 

Mahogany  Cake  • 

Uout  one  and  one-half  fupa  o''  granulated  HUgar  and  one-half  cup  of 
butter  to  a  croau),  ttien  add  three  well  beaten  eggs  to  this  and  heat  ton 
minutes,  fslir  In  this  oii(!-half  cup  of  sweet  milk,    two    eups    of    well    aifted 


36 


flour,  one  teaspoon  soda.     Boil  one-half  cup  grated    chocolate   in   one-half 
cup  of  sweet  milk  until  thick,  cool  and  add  to  the  batter  last. 

For  the  filling  use  one  and  one  half  cups  of  sugar  cooked  in  one- half 
cup  of  sweet  milk  until  thick;  then  remove  from  the  fire  and  beat  until  cold, 
flavor  with  vanilla.  — <Mrs.  Blanch  Stewart. 

Snow  Cake 

One-half  cup  butter,  one  cup  of  sugar,  two  cups  flour,  one  half  cop  of 
sweet  milk,  whites  of  four  eggs,  two  teaspoonfuls  baking  powdwr,  flavor 
with  lemon.  — Mrs.  R.  E.  Jackson. 

Silver  Cake 

Whites  of  seven  eggs,  two  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  butter,  cup  of 
sweet  milk,  two  cups  of  flour,  one  cup  of  corn  starch,  three  teaspoonfuls 
baking  powder.     Flavor  to  taste.  — Mrs.  W.  A.  Davenport. 

Sponge  Cake 

One  and  one  half  cups  bread  yeast,  one  and  one- half  cups  sugar,  one- 
half  cup  butter,  one-half  cup  flour,  two  eggs,  one  teaspoonful  cinnamon, 
one  teaspoonful  cloves,  one  teaspoonful  nutmeg,  one  cup  of  seeded  raisins, 
o:  e  cup  of  seeded  currants.  Beat  sugar,  butter  and  eggs  together  4hen  add 
other  ingredients.  — Luna  MeShirley. 

Doughnuts 

Four  tins  of  flour,  six  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  two  cups  of 
sugar  (small),  one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  three  eggs,  well  beaten,  one  table- 
spoonful  of  melted  butter,  nutmeg.  — Sarah  Schlegel. 

Cookies 

Two  cups  of  granulated  sugar,  one  cup  of  butter  and  lard,  two  eggs, 
well  beaten,  two  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  one  teaspoonful  soda,  oue 
pint  sour  cream,  flavor  with  lemon,  sprinkle  with  granulated  sugar  before 
putting  in  the  oven, 

— Mrs.  H.  E.  Misener,  Mechanicsburg,  Ind. 

Devil's  Food  Cake 

Two  cups  brown  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  two  eggs,  one-half  cup 
sour  milk,  one  teaspoon  soda  in  milk,  three  cups  of    sifted    flour,    one-half 


37 


cup  ohocoldte  grated,  one- half  cup  boiling  water. 

Filling — cook  two  cups  brown  sugar,  one-lialf  cup  butter,  one-half  cup 
cream,  — Mrs,  D,  M.  Brown, 

Raisin  Cookies 

Two  cups  of  soft  brown  sugar,  one  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  raipins, 
four  tablespoons  of  sour  milk,  two  eggs,  beaten  light,  one  teaspoon  soda, 
one  teaspoon  baking  powder,  enough  tlour  to  roll  good. 

— Mrs.  George  Zollman. 

White  Cake 

Whites  of  eight  eggs,  three  cupa  sugar,  three  cups  of  flour,  one  cup 
corn  starch,  one  cup  butter,  one  cup  sweet  milk,  two  heaping  teaspoons 
baking  powder.      Flavor  with  lemon. 

—Mrs.  J.  W.  Allen,  Pendleton,  Ind. 

White  Loaf  Cake 

Two  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  sweet  milk,  whites  of 
eight  egns,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  flour  enough  to  thicken, 
flavor  to  suit  taste,  —  Mabel  Joiner. 

Ginger  Cookies 

One  cup  sugar,  one  cup  molasses,  three- fourths  cup  of  lard,  two  eggs, 
one  tahlespoonful  of  soda,  one  tablespoonful  of  ginger,  one  teaspoonful  of 
cinnamon.  —Mary  Joiner. 

Marble  Cake 

Li»ht,  white  sugar,  one  and  one-half  cups;  butter,  one-half  cup;  sweet 
milk,  one  half  cup;  flour,  two  and  one-half  cnps;  whites  of  four  eggs;  two 
teaspoons  of  baking  powder;  flavor  with  lemon  or  almonds.  Dark  part; 
brown  sugar,  one  cup;  molasses,  one-half  cup;  yolks  of  four  eggs,  sweet 
milk,  one-half  cup,  two  and  one  hilf  cups  flour;  two  teaspoons  of  baking 
powder;  mix  in  separate  pans,  flavor  with  spices. 

—Miss  Izuma  Fadely,  Newcastle,  Ind. 

Sponge  Cake 
One  large  cup  of  granulated  sugar,  three  eggs,  well  beaten,  separately, 
three  teaspoonfuls  melted  butter,  four  tablespoonfuls  of   sweet    milk,    two 


a  3 

teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  one  and  one-half  cups  of  flour.  Butter  two 
jelly  pans,  dust  with  flour  aud  bake  in  moderate  oven,  gieve  powdered 
Bugar  on  each  layer  and  cut  in  squares,  or  put  together  with  apple  jelly, 

—Mrs.  N,  R,  Fleming,  Muneie,  Ind, 
—Mrs,  G.  A.  Funkhouser,  Dayton,  Ohio, 

Dried  Apple  Cake 

Two  cups  of  dried  apples  chopped  and  soaked  over  night,  one  cup  of 
brown  sugar,  cook  the  apples  in  the  sugar  until  they  are  quite  stiff,  then 
let  them  cool.  One  cup  sugar,  two  eggs,  one  cup  of  butter  and  lard  mixed, 
one  cup  of  sour  milk,  two  level  teaspoonfule  of  soda,  one  teaspoonful  of 
flavoring  and  one  teaspoonful  of  grated  nutmeg,  one  cup  of  raisins,  three 
teaspoons  of  spices.  Make  a  stiff  batter  and  stir  in  the  apples  the  last 
thing  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

— Mrs.  Rhoda  Keesling 

the  €.  K  Sowasb 

0mn  Gkvator. 

We  hu^ 

Wb^atf  Corn,  Oafs,  J^pe,  B^Vt  Straw,   Chver 
Seed^  or  anything  in  the  seed  or  grain  line. 


Teed,  Clover  Seed,  all  kinds  of  Grass  Seed, 
Tarm  Seeds,  Chick  Starter  and  Chick  Teed,  Oil  meal 
and  Pure  Buckwheat  Thur. 

deadqartets  for  d^^d  ^nd  Soft  Coal 

6.  K.  Sowasb^ 

PI)orte  96. 


M!) 


Banana  Cake 

Three  eggs,  two  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  sweet  cream,  not  to  rich, 
two  and  one-half  cups  of  flour,  two  and  one-haif  teaspoonsfuls  of  baking 
powder,  slice  the  bananas  between  layers  and  cut  them  length  way  a 
for  the  top  before  whitening  the  cake. 

•— Mrs.  Hat  Summers,  Greentown,  Ind, 

Poor  Man's  Cake 

One  egg,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter  or  lard,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  and 
one-half  cup  of  flour,  one  and  one- half  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  flavor 
to  suit  tagte.  -  -Mary  K.  Atkinson. 

Ginger  Cookies 

Two  cups  of  Orleans  molasses,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  nup  of  lard,  one 
tal)lesp(tnn  of  cinnamon,  one  tablespoon  of  ginger,  one  teaspoon  of  cloves, 
a  pinch  of  alum,  salt,  two  egge,  one  tablespoon  of  soda  dissolved  iu  one 
cup  of  boiling  cotl'ee,  flour  to  make  a  soft  dough 

—Mrs,  Ida  F,  Hodson. 

Spice  Cake 

Four  eggs,  leaving  out  white?  of  2  for  icing,  two  large  cups  of  brown 
sugar,  two  third  cup  of  melted  butter,  one  cup  of  sour  milk,  one  level  tea- 
spoon of  soda,  two  hea()ing  teaspoons  of  cinnamon,  one  and  one- half  tea- 
spoon of  cloves,  one-half  teaspoon  of  nutmeg,  three  cups  of  flour.  JJia- 
solve  soda  in  sour  milk,  bake  in  layer, 

Icing— One  cup  of  granulated  sugar,  two-third  cup  of  water  cooked 
till  it  threads,  stir  into  the  beate.-j  white^*  of  eggs,  flavor  with  vanilla  ami 
add  one  half  te-spoon  Imkiog  powder. 

—  Mrg   Joe  A.  Painter,  Hartford  City,  Ind, 

White    Cake 
Whites  of  four  egga,  two  scant  cups  o^'=ugar,  one   and  one-half   cups 
flour,  one  half  cup  b.utter.  one- half  cup  water  or  milk,  two    tcriS|)Oonfuls  of 
iiaking  powdiU', 

Icing— One  cup  granulated  sugar,  two-thlrdB  cup  of  water,  boil  until 
hairs  from  spoon,  stir  in  liealoii  wliitos  of  two  o^ga,  beat  until  stiff, 

—  Mrs    Nan(!v  Gossett 


40 


Jelly  Roll 

One  cup  of  sugar,  one  egg,  one  cup  of  flour,  one-half  cup  ot  sweet 
milk,  one  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  one  teaspoonful  of  cinnamon,  one- 
half  teaspoonful  of  cloves.     Bake  and  spread  with  jelly,  roll  up. 

—-Mrs.  Ada  Malone,  Elnora,  Ind. 

Scripture  Cake 

One  cup  of  Judges  5:25,  three  and  one-half  cups  I  Kings  4:22,  three 
cups  Jeremiah  6:20,  two  cups  I  Samuel  30:12,  two  cups  Nahum  3:12,  one 
cup  Genesis  24:17,  two  cups  (chopped)  Numbers  17:8,  one-half  dozen 
Isaiah  10:14.  one  tablespoon  1  Samuel  14.'25,  one  teaspoon  Amos  4:5,  one 
pinch  of  Leviticus  2:13,  season  to  taste  11  Ohron.  9:9,  (two  teaspoons  of 
cinnamon  and  cloves).  Follow  Solomons  direction  for  making  a  good  boy 
Prov.  23:14.  —Mrs.  D.  M.  Brown,  Sena  Lykens. 

Piince  of  Wales  Cake 

Dark  part;  One  cup  of  brown  sugar,  one  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  sour 
milk,  two  cups  of  flour,  one  and  one-half  cup  of  chopped  raisins,  yolks  of 
three  eggs,  one-half  teaapoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  little  warm  water,  one 
loaspoouful  of  cloves  and  one  of  cinnamon.  White  part:  One   and    one- 

half  cup  of  granulated  sugar,  mixed  with  one- half  cup  of  butter,  one-half 
cup  of  sweet  milk,  one-half  cup  corn  starch,  one  large  cup  of  flour,  two 
teasjjOonfuU  of  baking  powder. 

—  Mrs.  Ridgway,  Ambay,  lud. 

Cookies 

Make  a  hollow  with  Hour  in  a  pan,  put  in  oue  cup  sugar,  one  egg, 
nutmeg,  one- half  teaspoon  soda,  one-third  cup  butter,  onQ-fourtl\  cup  aour 
cream.         Or 

A  largor  quantity  can  be  made  with  flour,  two  teaspoons  baking  powder 
in  flour,  ttvo  cups  sugar,  Ave  egs^a,  nutmeg,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda  in  one 
pint  thick,  sour  cream,  oue  pound  melted  butter,  mix  as  soft  as  can  be 
handled.  —Mrs.  L.  0.  Miller. 

Dark  Layer  Cake 

Four  Ggge,  two  cups  brown  sugar,  ono-half  cup  sour  milk,  one  half 
cup  butter,  one  teaspoon  Boda,  one-half  cup    boiling    water,    one-third    bar 


41 


Baker's  cbooolate,  two  heaping  cups  flour,  cream  butter  and  sugar,  add 
eggs,  well  beaten,  tben  nailk.  Dissolve  chocolate  in  one  half  the  boiling 
water  and  soda  in  the  other  half,  add  to  the  batter  lastly  the  flour,  Hake 
in  three  layers. 

Filling — two  cups  brown  sugar,  one-half  cup  cream,  butter  the  size  ot 
egg,  boil  till  it  threads  from  spoon,  vanilla,  beat  till  almost  cold,  sproan  on 
layers  and  top.  —Mrs,  Austia  Shumaker,  Flat  Rock,  Ohio. 

Ginger  Cookies 

Two  cups  sugar,  two  cups  lard,  two  cups  molasses,  two  eggs,  two 
tablespoons  of  vinegar,  two  tablespoons  of  ginger,  two  teaspoons  of  cloves, 
two  teaspoons  of  scdo,  four  cups  of  flour,  dissolve  soda  in  a  little  water. 

— Cora  Myers. 

Doughnuts 

Two  quarts  flour,  two  cups  sugar,  two  eggs,  one  teaapoonfui  of  isalt, 
four  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  one  tablespoonful  melted  butter,  enough 
inilU  to  mix.  —Mrs.   Sarah  Trout. 

Black  Chocolate  Cake 

Two  cups  brown  sugar,  two  eggs,  one-half   cup    butter,    one-half   cup 
Bour  milk,  one  teaspoouful  soda,  (dissolved  in  sour    milk)    one  teaspoonful 
vanilla,  two  cups  flour.      Grate  one  square  Baker's  chocolate,  yolk  one  egg,  " 
one-half  cup  sweet  milk,  boil  until  stiflf,  and  add  to  ilrst  part,     bake  in  loaf 
cake,  ^  — Mary  P.  Huflf,  Yorktown,  Ind. 

Yellow  Cake 

Two  cups  of  sugar,  one  cu|)  of  i.-utter,  four  egga  beaten  light,  one  cup 
of  sweet  miik,  sift  four  cups  of  flour  level  tull,  three  teaspoonfuls  of  baking 
powder.  — Mis3  Sallie  Carter, 

Nut  Cake 
One-half  eup  butter,  one  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  three  ogga,  two  and 
one  half  oups  flour,  one  and  one-half  teaspoons  iloynl  baking  powder,  one- 
half  cup  sweet  milk,  one  cup  of  any  kind  of  nuts,  (meats  prefered).  Hub 
butter  and  sugar  to  a  liglxt  cream;  add  the  eggs  well  beaten,  then  the  flour 
sifted  with  the  powder,  mix  milk  and  nuts  into  a  rather  firm  batter,  bake  in 
a  paper  lined  pan  about  36  minutes.  — Mr«,  Ida  Sanders. 


42 


Fried  Cakes 

Sugar,  two  cups,  cream  and  buttermilk,  one  cup  of  each,  two  eggs, 
Boda  and  salt,  one  teaspoonful  of  each,  mix  soft  as  can  be  bandied,  and 
have  grease  hot.  —  Mary  Helvie  Atkinson, 

Cookies 

Two  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  sour  cream,  two  eggs,  one  cup  butter 
or  lard,  one  teaspoon  baking  powder,  one  teaspoon  soda.  Dissolve  soda  iu 
cream  and  mix  baking  powder  in  the  flour,  bake  in  quick  oven. 

—Mrs.  -Nora  Evans. 

Delicate  Cake 

Two  cups  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  whites 
of  four  eggs,  two  teaspoona  of  baking  powder,  three  cups  of  flour,  pinch  of 
3od.i.  ™.Mra.  Ada  McGrady. 


White  Ea0e  Mills 

Win  pay  the  hl^h^ 
e^t  market  price  for  ^ood 
milling  wheat* 

WHiTB  MMNNM 
flour  in  exchange  for 
wheat. 

No  better  place  for  custom  milline, 

full  weights,  §:ood  quaiitj^  and  fair  treatment.    A  trial  will  con- 
vince you, 

Strictly  pure,  fully  guaranteed  Buckwheat  Fleuri 

Your  Patreaaie  Sellcli 

JosepK  Frye, 


Route  2. 


Middletown,  Ind. 


43 


Checker  Board  Cake 

Two  cups  A  sugar,  two-thirds  cup  lard,  ooG'fourth  teaspoonful  salt, 
cream  together  thoroughly,  one  large  cup  sweet  milk,  three  cups  flour,  three 
teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  sift  four  times,  one  teaspoonful  vanilla,  four 
whites  of  eggs.  Divide  batter  even  in  two  dishes,  add  enough  red  sugar  in 
one  dish  to  make  a  deep  pink,  grease  and  flour  pans,  mark  two  rings  around 
pan,  keep  space  even,  put  red  in  center  of  two  and  white  in  center  of  one, 
be  careful  not  to  get  the  batter  mixed,  as  the  beauty  of  the  cake  depends 
on  getting  it  in  pans  even  so  it  will  be  in  squares  cut  from  center. 

--  iMaggie  Painter, 

New  Yearns  Cake 

Two  cups  of  ooooanut,  two  cups  of  citron,  one  cup  chopped  dates,  two 
cups  seeded  raisins,  two  cups  dried  currants,  one  cup  butter,  two  cups 
sugar,  one  cup  molasses,  one  cup  sweet  milk,  five  eggs,  Ave  cups  of  flour, 
one  teaspoonful  each  of  nutmeg,  cinnamon,  cloves,  ginger,  vanilla,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water,  when  properly  mixed  let  stand 
over  night.  .^-  Betta  J.  Miers. 

Ginger  Cookies 

On(!  teacup  of  sorghum  molasses,  one- half  cup  butter,  two  tablespoon- 
fills  of  liot  vvater,  '^ne  teaspoonful  of  soda,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  ginger.mis. 

—Mrs.  John  Toppin.  Greentown,  Ind. 


BREAKFAST  CAKES 


Waffles 

Two  eg'^a,  lieat  yo'ks  and  whites  separately,  one  cup  of  milk,  one  and 
three- fourths  cups  flnur,  three  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder,  a  pinch  of 
salt,  bake  on  hot  irons  ,  — iMrs.  0,  0    Inraan,  Springfiold,  111. 

Soft  Ginger  Bread 
One.  half  oup  sugar,  one  eup  sorghum,  or  Now  Orleans  molasses,  half 
cup  butter,  on^  teaspoonful  eaoli  gingor,    cinnauion   apd   cloves,    two    toa. 
spoons  soda  dissolved  in  oup  of  hot  water,  three  cups  flour,    add   two   woU 


44 


beaten  eggs  the  last  thing  before  baking. 

— Mrs.  J.  T.  Hobson,  Ralston,  Iowa 

Buns 

Take  one  large  oup  of  light  bread  dough  immediately  after  mixing. 
One-balf  oup  granulated  sugar,  one  oup  luke  warm  water,  lump  of  lard  size 
of  egg,  pinch  of  salt.  Mix  with  dough  and  then  mix  this  into  another 
dough,  let  rise  and  make  into  buns  the  size  of  yeast  biscuit  and  put  in  pan 
three  inches  apart.     Let  rise  and  then  bake. 

— Mrs.  N.  R.  Fleming,  Muncie,  Ind. 

Raised  Bread  Dough  Crullers 

Two  cups  sugar,  two  eggs,  one  pint  sour  cream,  one  teaspoon  soda, 
one  quart  bread  dough,  a  little  nutaaeg,  one-half  cup  butter,  let  raise  and 
fry.  — .Mrs.  Noffsinger. 

Muffins 

Two  cupfuls  flour,  one  cupful  milk,  one  ege;  (hpaten  separately)  one 
level  tablespoon  butter,  one-balf  teaspoonful  salt,  two  even  teaspoonfula 
baking  powder,  mix  thoroughly  the  baking  powder,  salt  and  flour.  Stir 
milk  and  beaten  yolks  together;  add  melted  butter,  then  flour  and  lastly 
fold  ia  the  whipped  whites.  Turn  into  hot  gem  pans  and  bake  at  once  in  a 
very  hot  oven  for  15  or  20  minutes.      Serve  immediately. 

•^ — Ladies'  Aid  Society,  Honey  Creek,  Ind. 

Com  Meal  Cakes 

Take  two  cups  of  ^rn  meal  and  one  of  flour,  a  little  salt,  mix  well  to- 
gether, two  eggs  well  beaten,  one  pint  sour  milk,  stir  in  one  even  tea- 
spoonful  of  soda.     Make  in  a  batter  and  fry  on  a  well  greased  griddle. 

—Mrs.  Surah  Tarkleson. 

Biscuits 

One  pint  of  thick,  sour  milk,  lard  the  size  of  an  egg,  one  teaspoonful 
level)  soda  sifted  in  a  scant  quart  of  flour,  gait. 

-  -^ Francis  Morrison. 

Soft  Ginger  Bread 
One  cup  Orleans  molasses,  one  cup  sugar,    one   cup   sour   milk,    two 


45 


eggs,  ten  tablespoons  of  melted  lard  and  butter,  about  half  of  each;  all  lard 
will  do,  threo  level  teaspoons  of  soda  dissolved  in  the  milk,  one  level  tea- 
spoon  of  ginger,  one  level  ceaspoon  of  cloves,  two  level  teaspoons  of  cin- 
namon, one  and  one-half  cup  of  raisins,  flour  to  make  a  little  stiffer  than 
other  cake.     Bake  in  slow  oven. 

— Mrs.  L.  R.  Harford,  Omaha,    Neb. 

Marguerites 

Two  dozen  large  soda  crackers,  whites  of  two  eggs  (well  beaten)  three- 
fourths  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  prepared  cocoanut,  flavoring  to  taste. 
Mix  well  together,  spread  over  top  of  crackers  and  set  in  stove  to  brown 
slightly.  — Lillie  Ledgerwood. 

Rusk 

One  cup  of  mashed  potatoes,  one  cup  of  sponge,  one  cup  of  sugar, 
four  eggs  beaten  separately^  and  let  raise.  Take  one  cup  of  lard  and  flour 
enough  to  make  soft  dough  and  let  raise  real  light,  make  in  rolls,  let  raise 
light  and  bake,  — Mrs.  Bess  Fleming. 

Cinnamon  Rolls 

Take  batch  of  dough  after  it  has  risen  second  time,  spread  with  a  layer 
each  of  butter,  sugar  and  cinnamon.  Make  into  a  roll  about  an  inoh  thick 
and  slice  ott  into  rolls  the  proper  lengths  and  bake. 

—Ladies'  Aid,    Tabor,  Xnd, 

Soft  Ginger  Bread 

Two  cups  Orleans  molasses,  one  cup  sugar,  Or  two  cups  sugar  and 
one  cup  molasses,  one  cup  butter,  one  cup  sweet  milk,  four  eggs,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  ginger,  one  tablespoonful  of  cinnamon,  four  cups  flour,  full 
measure,  mixed  with  threo  heaping  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder.  Bake 
in  small  tins.     Good  warm.  — Mrs.  L.  0.  Miller, 

Democrats 

Three  tableapoona  soft  white  sugar,  three  tablespoons  butter,  cream 
together,  add  yolks  of  two  eggs,  throe-fourths  cup  sweet  milk,  one  and  oae- 
half  cups  flour,  throe  teaspoons  baking  powder,  add  whites  of  two  eggs 
beaten  stiff,  with  pinoU  of  salt.  — Alice  Shoemaker, 


46 


Graham  Gems 

One  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one  beaten  egg,  one  cup  of  milk,  two 
tablespoons  of  sugar,  two  teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  in  Graham  flour 
enough  for  a  good  hatter,      Bake  in  a  rather  hot  oven . 


-Selected. 


Wheat  Germ  Snaps 


Seven  cups  of  wheat  germ,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  Orleans 
molasses,  one-half  cup  of  butter,  one  egg,  two  teaspoonfuls  of  ginger,  one 
heaping  teaspoonful  of  soda,  four  teaspoonfuls  of  vinegar.     Knead  well. 

—Mrs.  D.  W.  Hayes,  Odnn,  Ind. 

Brown  Betty 

Oil"  enp  of  bread  crumbs,  half  cup  sugar,  two  cups  chopped  or  sliced 
apples  that  will  cook  good,  one  cup  of   chopped    raisins,    one    teaspoon    of 


;$1:D0WN 

:opensan;acgount 


FURWITUKE       a      GO-CAKTS       s       CARPETS 

REFI2IGERATOKIS  a   SEWBING  MACHINES 

TRUNKS        -        BICYCLES        -        LAWN  SWSNGS 

'a^  DEPARTMENT  STORE 

\  nurm  stov£.s  km  steel  nflKOEs. 

%^       V4SJ-,  OR  EA3>   PAV-DAV  PAYMt-Nrfi 
1220  to  i3a«  MerKUaii  Street  -  ANDKRSUN,  I^OIANA. 


47 


cinnamon,  two  tablespoons  of  butter.  Then  butter  well  a  deep  pudding 
dish,  put  in  a  layer  of  apples  or  raisins,  a  sprinkle  of  sugar  until  all  is  used 
with  bread  cruubs  on  top  in  each  layer,  mix  in  lumps  of  butter,  cover  and 
bake  forty  minutes.     Rhubarb  is  nice  used  in  place  of  apples. 

— Mrs.  Jordan,  Indianapolis,  Ind, 

Lemon  Crackers 

Two  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  lard,  two  eggs,  one  cup  sweet 
milk,  one  ounce  carbonate  ammonia  in  the  milk,  one  teaspoon  oil  lemon. 
Flour  to  roll.  — Laura  Neese. 

Cinnamon  Rolls 

One  pint  bread  sponge,  one  small  cup  sugar,  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
butter,  a  little  salt,  one  egg;  mix  altogether,  then  add  flour  enough  to  make 
a  dough  soft  enough  to  roll  about  an  inch  thick,  spread  with  butter,  sugar 
and  cinnamon  and  roll  up  lightly,  cut  pieces  two  inches  thick,  place  in 
circles  about  an  inch  apart  in  buttered  pans. 

— Mrs.  Emma  Cooper, 

Soft  Ginger  Bread 

Half  cup  sugar,  one  cup  molasses,  one-half  cup  butter,  one  teaspoon 
each  ginger,  cinnamon  and  cloves,  two  teaspoons  soda  dissolved  in  one  cup 
boiling  water,  two  and  one  half  cups  flour,  add  two  well  beaten  eggs  the 
last  thing  before  bakiug.  —Myrtle  Crabill 

Maro:uerites 

One  box  of  reception  flakes,  one  cup  of  chopped  peanuts,  fine,  two  and 
one-half  cups  of  soft  A  sugar,  whites  of  three  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  troth. 
Add  sugar  aLd  peanuts,  spread  on  flakes  and  brown  in  quick  ovon, 

—  Mrs.  Addle  Hallowell. 

Soft  Ginger  Brwad  Without  Eg?s 

Stir  together  one  cupful  of  molasses,  and  one  cupful  of  sugar,  melt  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and  add  also  one  teaspoouful  each  of  ground  cin- 
namon, ginger  and  soda,  and  add  a  pinch  of  salt.  Then  stir  in  three  scant 
cupfuls  of  sifted  flour.  Sprinkle  a  little  sugar  over  the  cake  as  it  goes  in 
the  oven,     Bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven. 

— Mrs.  F,  W.  Strough,   MGchanicsburg,  Ind. 


48 


Tea  Biscuits 

Tliree  cups  of  flour,  one  cup  sweet  milk,  one  level  teaspoonful  salt,  two 
teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder.  Mix  together  lightly,  roll  out  thin  and 
softly  as  possible;  cut  into  biscuits  lay  a  lump  of  butter  on  one  side,  double 
together,  put  into  butter  greased  pans  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

— Selected. 

French  Rolls 

At  noon  scald  a  pint  of  milk,  then  let  it  cool.  Sift  two  quarts  of  flour 
into  which  rub  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  or  lard  and  them  make  a  hole 
in  the  center.  Siir  a  spoonful  of  yeast  and  two  spoonfuls  of  sugar  into 
your  milk  then  put  all  into  the  center  of  your  flour.  Let  it  stand  several 
hours  till  foaming;  then  mix  in  all  the  flour;  cover  and  set  it  away  over 
night.  In  the  morning  it  will  be  found  nicely  ripen;  knead  it  a  very  little 
on  the  board;  roll  out,  not  too  thin,  spread  over  with  butter,  and  cut  in 
rounds  lapping  one  edge.  Do  not  place  the  rolls  near  together  in  the  pans. 
Let  them  rise  about  two  hours,  then  bake  in  a  quick  oven  about  twenty 
minutes.  — Mary  A.  Farrell. 

Oat  Meal  Cookies 

Two  cups  of  rolled  oats,  two  eggs,  one  cup  of  chopped  raisinii,  one  cup 
of  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  three  fourths  cup  of  sour  milk,  one  an<l 
one- half  cups  of  flour,  three  ♦'ourths  cup  of  butter,  one  teaspoonful  of  cin- 
namon, one  teaspoonful  of  cluvee  Mix  and  drop  olf  of  spoon  on  buttered 
liiia  and  Imke.  — Mrs.  F,  W.  Strough. 

Ginger  Bread 

One  cup  molasses,  two-thirds  cup  of  sliortening,  one  egg,  one  cup  of 
water  or  sour  milk,  pinch  salt,  one  teaspoon  soda,  one  tablespoon  ginger, 
flour  for  medium  thickness,  bake  as  a  solid  cake  or  in  layers. 

— Mrs.  Ida  Sanders 

Mush  Biscuits 

Make  corn  meal  mush  same  afe  to  fry,  take  about  one  gallon  flour  in 
pan,  make  hole  in  center,  put  in  one  and  one  half  cups  lard,  one-half  gallon 
v/arm  mush  on  top  of  lard,  when  cool  enough  to  bear  hands,  aJd  one-half 
cup  sugar,  a  little  Halt,  and  mix  altogether,  then  add  one- half  cup  good 
yeast,  and  work  well,     ijeave  in  warm  place  over   night   then    work   down 


4y 


again  and  put  in  cool  place  until  ready  to  make  biscuits.      Does  not  hurt  to 
freeze,  and  will  be  best  at  end  of  a  week. 

— Mrs.  Addie  Hallowell,  Pendleton,  lud. 

Ginger  Bread 

One  cup  sorghum  molasses,  one  cup  sugar,  one  half  cup  melted  lard 
one  egg,  one  cup  sour  milk,  one-fourth  tea^poonful  of  salt,  one  tablespoon- 
ful  ginger,  one  teaspoonful  cinnamon,  one-half  teaspoonful  ground  nutmeg, 
one  teaspoonful  soda  dissolved  in  one-fourth  cup  hot  water,  flour  to  make 
a  stiff  batter.  Beat  thoroughly,  put  in  buttered  pans,  bake  in  moderate 
oven.  —Mrs.  G.  P.  Macklin. 


Fashiondb 


Millinery 


You  do  not  need  to  go  to  the 
city  for  the  latest  and  best  in 
Millinery.  I  can  suit  you  in 
both  style  and  price,  if  you 
but   t^-lve  rae    an  opportunity. 


Mrs. 


1    O.  O.  F.  Building;, 


SEE 


BROWN  8 


For  all  the  Newest  Styles 

and  Leathers  in  Ladies'* 

hisses'  and  Children's 

SHOES, 

and  at  B^easonable  Prices. 


Anderson,  Ind.p 

South  Side  Squaret 


■MMiiBail 


CiiART.ES  H.  Husband, 

GOOD  SHOES. 

Vt^EST  SinK  SuUARK       -      ANDERSON.  IND. 


50 


Confectione 


Cream  Fudge 

Two  cups  granulated  sugar,  one  cup  sweet  milk,  lump  butter  size  of  a 
walnut.  Boil  sugar  and  milk  and  stir  constantly,  when  nearly  done  add 
butter,  cook  until  it  will  form  a  ball  when  dropped  in  water.  Remove  from 
stove  and  beat  until  cool;  turn  out  into  a  well  buttered  pan  and  before  it  is 
entirely  cold  mark  in  squares. 

— Mrs.  0.  P.  Lewis,  Richmond,  Ind. 

Peanut  Crisp 

One-half  cup  sugar,  three-fourths  cup  butter,  one  teaspoon  vanilla, 
two  cups  of  flour.  Mix  and  spread  this  on  bottom  of  dripping  pan,  spread 
butter  thin  with  knife  and  sprinkle  with  finely  chopped  peanuts,  bake  until 
crisp  in  moderate  oven. 

— Mrs.   J.  W.  Allen,  Pendleton,  Ind. 

Crackerjack 

0:ie  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  syrup,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one 
tablespoonful  of  vinegar,  one  level  teaspoonful  of  soda.  When  syrup  is 
very  brittle  when  dropped  in  cold  water,  remove  from  stove  and  add  soda 
and  pour  quickly  over  six  quarts  of  well  popped  corn,  from  which  the  hard 
grains  have  been  removed.  — Mrs.  D.  W.  Hayes,  Qdon,  Ind. 

Taffy 

One  pint  sugar,  two  tablespoons  vinegar,  one  half  teaspoon  cream 
tartar.  Add  little  water  to  moisten  sugar,  boil  until  brittle,  when  cool  pull 
until  white.     Use  any  flavor  desired, 

— Mrs.  C.  J.  Roberts,  Indianapolis,  Ind, 

Fudge 

Two  cups  sugar,  one  cup  sweet  milk.  Boil  and  stir  constantly,  add 
one  tablespoon  luitler,  before  removing  from  stove  add  two  and  ono-half 
tablespoonfuls  of  ground  chocolate.  — Ivy  Inman. 


51 


Excellent  Candy 

Take  two  and  one-half  cups  of  granulated  gugar,  one-half  cup  of  water 
pinch  of  cream  of  tartar,  boil  five  minutes  or  till  it  gathers  good  in  water. 
Then  take  it  off,  let  it  oool  a  short  time,  beat  it  until  it  sugars,  then  pour 
it  out  on  a  dough  board  and  flavor  and  work  it  like  dough.  Make  it  into 
squares.  — Chessie  Young. 

Nut  Candy 

Two  cups  granulated  sugar,  one  half  cup  corn  syrup,  boil  until  quite 
hard,  then  stir  into  beaten  whites  of  two  eggs,  add  one- half  cup  chopped 
flue  English  walnuts.     Stir  until  cool  and  cut  in  squares. 

— Mrs.  Osa  Dill. 

Cocoanut  Taffy 

Boil  two  cups  of  granulated  sugar  and  one-half  cup  cold  water  until  it 
will  harden  when  tried  in  cold  water,  then  stir  in  one  cup  of  prepared  co- 
coanut and  one  teaspoon  lemon  extract.  Pour  out  on  buttered  tins  and 
mark  ofli'  in  squares  before  it  becomes  too  hard. 

— Jannie  Sanders. 

Fudge 

Two  cups  of  brown  sugar  and  enough  milk  to  cover.  Boil  and  stir 
constantly,  add  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut.  When  done  remove  from  fire 
and  beat  to  a  cream  then  pour  on  a  greaned  platter. 

— Gladys  Showalter. 

Cracker  Jack 

One-fourth  cup  of  molasses,  two-thirds  cup  of  sugar,  nno-fourth  cup  of 
water  and  one-half  cup  of  glucose  Boil  two  minutes,  then  add  one-fourth 
cup  of  butter.     Boil  until  ready  to  burn,  then  pour  over  corn. 

— Mrs.  Nelia  Fadely. 

Fudge 

Two  cups  sugar,  one-half  cup  sweet  cream,  one- fourth  cup  grated 
chocolate,  small  lump  butler,  boil  till  when  dropped  in  water  will  hold  to- 
gether, then  beat  until  it  sugars,  drop  in  buttered  plate. 

—  Ilallie    Fadley. 


52 


Mock  Maple  Sugar 

One  and  one-half  oups  dark  brown  sugar,  one  cup  sweet  milk  or  cream, 
butter  size  of  egg.  Boil  about  fifteen  minutes  or  till  the  oyrup  will  hair 
when  dropped  from  a  spoon.  W^hen  removed  from  the  stove  stir  it  quickly 
with  an  egg  or  cake  beater  until  the  syrup  is  very  smooth  and  begins  to 
thicken.  Turn  into  a  well  greased  pan  or  dish,  when  cool  cut  in  squares, 
Any  flavoring  may  be  added  just  before  removing  from  the  stove. 

—Mrs,  Grace  Tully. 

Sea  Foam  Candy 

One  and  one-fourth  oups  granulated  sugar,  one  half  oup  corn  syrup, 
one  fourth  cup  water,  white  of  one  egg  beaten.  Cook  sugar,  water  and 
syrap  until  almost  hard  enough  for  taffy,  pour  in  beaten  egg  and  stir  until 
cold.     Flavor  with  one  teaspoon  of  vanilla,  add  nuts  or  fruit  if  you  like, 

— Hallie  Painter,  Hartford  City,  lad. 

Egg  Candies 

Materials— One  egg,  one  lemon,  one- half  pound  of  dates,  two  pounds 
of  powdered  sugar,  ono-half  pound  of  nuts,  vanilla  and  pei.pcrmint  extracts 
for  flavoring.  Put  white  of  egg  in  one  bowl  and  yolk  in  another.  In  the 
white  of  the  egg  put  one  teaspoonful  of  water;  in  the  yolk  put  one  teaapoon- 
ful  of  lemon  juice,  and  if  desired  grate  in  a  portion  of  the  rind.  Stir  both 
white  and  yolk  into  a  stiff  paste  with  augar.  Stone  dates  and  liU  with  the 
lemon  paste.  Divide  the  ^hite  paste;  flavor  one  part  with  one-half  tea- 
spoonful  of  vanilla,  make  into  balls,  and  p^ess  one  half  of  nut  upon  each. 
P^lavor  the  other  half  with  six  drops  of  peppermint  and  roll  into  little  balls 
the  size  of  small  marbles  and  fluton  gently  until  they  are  shapely. 

— Crystal  Florence  PowelJ. 

Butter  Scotch , 

Two  cups  of  light  brown  sugar,  one  oup  butter,  one  tablespoon  vinegar 
and  one  of  water.  Mix  well  together  and  boll  four  minutes.  Add  one- 
eighth  teaspoon  baking  soda.  Try  a  little  in  a  oup  of  oold  water  and  when 
it  will  crisp  remove  from  the  firo.  Pour  on  buttered  tins  and  before  it  be- 
t'oniGS  too  hard  mark  off  in  squiroi*.  — Juntiio  Sundors. 


53 


IT  PAYS  TO   TRADE 

At  the  Store  of 

H.  S.  HYSINGER  G  SON, 

ANDERSON.  INDIANA. 

Dry  Goods,  Ladies'  Ready  to  Hear  Garment»i 
Ladies'  and  Men's  Furnisliin^Si 

North  Side  Square  -  ^  -  .  Both  Phones  700 

OUR  BASEMENT  SELLS  IT  FOR  LESS. 


Marshmallows 

Soak  four  ounces  of  gum  arable  in  one  teacupfulof  water.  At  the  end 
of  two  hoars  put  into  a  double  boiler,  poor  jold  water  in  outer  vessel  and 
bring  slowly  to  a  boil.  When  gum  is  dissolved,  strain  through  a  piece  of 
cheese  cloth;  put  it  back  in  the  boiler,  add  a  large  cupful,  of  powdered 
sugar,  and  stir  the  mixture  steadily  until  stiff  and  white.  Take  from  the 
stove  and  beat  vanilla  in  to  taste;  continue  to  beat  and  pour  into  tins  which 
have  been  rubbed  wiih  corn  starch.  When  cold  cut  in  squares  and  rub  in 
three  parts  uorn  starch  and  one  part  powdtred  sugar. 

—  Mrs.  Mildred  Edwardg, 

Chocolate  Caramels 

One  cup  roolasses,  two  cupe  sugar,  one  cup  rich  milk  or  cream,  and 
one-half  oake  of  chocolate.  Flavor  with  vanilla  as  you  remove  it  from  the 
stove.  Boil  20  minutes  and  turn  into  buttered  tins.  The  flavoring  for 
any  candy  ought  not  be  put  in  until  it  is  a  little  cool,  to  save  evaporation 
of  the  fine  flavor.  — Ivy  Inman. 

Mai  shmallows 

Dissolve  two  tablespoons  of  Knox  gelatine  in  ten  tablespoons  of  cold 
water,  iioil  two  eupa  of  granulated  sugar  In  eight  tablespoons  of  water  until 
It  threaifj,  pour  lioiling  syrup  over  the  gelatine  boat  untd  it  cracks,  Uavor 
with  six  drops  of  vanilla,  pour  into  pan  lined  with  powdered  sugar,  sprinkle 
sugar  on  top,  when  cold  cut  In  squares. 

—Mrs.  A.  K.  Smith,  Pondleton,  Ind. 


54 


H)e88ert 


Frosted  Apples 

Select  large  sound  apples.  Put  them  on  to  simmer  in  water  witla  a 
very  small  piece  of  alum.  Cook  a  little  while  then  put  them  in  cold  water. 
Then  peel  the  skins  off  with  the  fingers.  Remove  the  cores  and  fill  with  a 
filling  made  of  grated  bread  crumbs,  a  lump  of  butter  and  sugar  to  taste 
and  a  dash  of  cinnamon  or  spice,  Dip  the  apples  in  melted  butter  and 
sprinkle  with  granulated  sugar.     Bake  until  done  in  a  slow  oven. 

— Mrs.  0.  P.  Lewis, 

Tapioca  Dessert 

Four  tablespoons  of  tapioca,  boil  gently  for  one  hour,  add  one-half  cup 
of  sugar  and  let  cool.  Then  add  twice  the  amount  of  chopped  oranges  and 
bananas  to  the  tapioca  and  sweeten  to  taste.      Eat  with  whipped  cream. 

— Mrs.  Ada  Malone,  Elnora,  Ind. 


C.   W.  Swartz, 
Higli  Qrade  Millinery. 

Corner  Meridian  &  lo//^  S/s.  :  oAnderson.,  Jnd, 


55 


Chocolate  Blanc  Mange 

Put  one  pint  of  milk  in  a  double  boiler.  When  hot  add  two  ounces 
grated  chocolate,  one- half  cup  of  sugar.  Moisten  three  level  tablespoon- 
ful  of  corn  starch  with  cold  milk.  Add  all  this  with  one  cup  minced  nuts 
to  the  hot  milk  and  stir  until  smooth.  Put  in  individual  moulds  and  serve 
with  whipped  cream.  — May  Cassada. 

Prune  Whip 

Stew  one  pound  of  prunes  and  pick  fine,  one- half  cup  of  English  Wal- 
nuts. Add  well  beaten  whites  of  four  eggs,  one  scant  cup  of  sugar.  Bake 
in  oven  fifteen  minutes.     Serve    while  hot,     Delicoug  with  whipped  cream, 

—Mrs.  Abbie  Weesner. 

Tomato  Jelly 

One  can  ripe  tomatoes  run  through  a  colander,  one-half  box  gelatine 
dissolved  in  tomato  juice,  one-half  teaspoonful  salt,  one  bay  leaf,  one  tea- 
spoonful  sugar,  one-half  cup  vinegar,  dash  cayenne,  put  in  buttered  molds, 
let  set  over  night,  serve  either  in  slices  or  individual  moulds. 

— Mrs,  Will  H.  Hughes,  Bloomington,  Ind, 

Strawberry  Preserves 

Use  one  and  one-half  pints  of  sugar  to  each  quart  of  fruit.  Put  enough 
water  to  dissolve  the  sugar  and  let  it  boil  until  candy,  add  fruit  and  boil 
from  5  to  8  minutes.  Pour  in  large  platters  and  place  in  the  .sun  until  the 
juice  is  as  thick  as  jelly.  This  will  require  about  three  days,  Put  in 
aiason  jars,  be  sure  to  cover  with  parafflne  before  sealing. 

—Mrs.  Carrie  A,  France, 

Tapioca  Cream 

Three  tablespoonfuls  of  tapioca,  one  quart  of  milk,  three  eggs,  vanilla 
or  other  flavoring,  and  sugar  to  taste.  Soak  the  tapioca  in  warm  water  un- 
til soft;  while  boiling  the  milk  stir  in  the  softened  tapioca  and  the  yolks  of 
three  eggs,  one  tableepoonful  of  corn  starch  or  flour,  beat  with  the  sugar, 
when  sufficiently  cooked  pour  into  a  dish  and  when  oool  add  the  flavoring. 
Beat  the  whites  of  three  eggs  until  stiff,  sweeten  and  flavor,  then  stir  a  part 
into  the  cream  and  pour  the  rest  over  it, 

— Mrs.  Sarah  Yates, 


56 


Orange  Marmalade 
Five  seedless  oranges,  one  lemon,  slice  oranges  and  lemon  very  thin, 
slashing  the  fruit  at  intervals  so  as  to  make  sections  about  an  inch  long. 
To  each  cup  of  fruii  add  three  cups  of  cold  water,  and  let  it  stand  a  day. 
Boil  forty-five  minutes  and  let  it  stand  another  day.  Take  a  cup  of  sugar 
to  each  cup  of  fruit  and  water.  Add  the  juice  of  one  lemon.  Let  it  boil 
forty-five  minutes,  then  turn  into  glasses. 

— Mrs.  J.  M.  Phillippi. 

Float 

Four  eggs,  one  quart  milk,  four  tablespoons  sugar,  one  teaspoon  lemon 
or  vanilla  extract.  Beat  yolks  of  eggs,  add  sugar,  stir  well.  Then  add  the 
milk,  slowly,  stirring  all  the  while.  Cook  in  double  boiler,  or  use  asbestos 
met,  as  will  scorch  easily.  Beat  whites  of  eggs  until  stiff.  When  custard 
is  done,  pour  into  crock  or  dish,  add  flavor,  and  put  whites  of  eggs,  by 
spoonfuls  on  top.  In  a  few  moments  turn  the  whites  carefully,  so  will 
cook  through  well,  while  custard  is  still  hot.  This  is  fine  to  be  eaten  either 
hot  or  cold.  Is  good  chilled,  but  not  frozen.  If  wanted  to  look  extra  nice, 
cook  the  whites  of  eggs  in  little  boiling  milk,  instead  of  on  the  hot  custard; 
then  place  on  custard,  after  it  is  in  dish  from  which  it  is  to  be  served. 

— Lizzie  Sheets. 

Tapioca  Cream 

One  quart  milk,  two  heaping  tablespoonfuls  "Minute  Tapioca",  one- 
fourth  teaspoonful  salt,  one  small  cup  of  sugar,  two  eggs,  one-half  tea* 
spoonful  orange  or  vanilla  flavoring.  Time  required  for  cooking  15 
minutes.  Cook  for  10  minutes,  the  milk,  tapioca  and  salt  in  a  double  boil- 
er, stirring  often.  Beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  and  sugar  together,  and  at 
the  end  of  10  minutes  stir  this  into  the  milk  and  tapioca.  Let  cook  until 
it  begins  to  thicken  like  custard,  then  take  from  the  stove  and  whip  in  the 
beaten  whites  of  the  eggs  until  no  white  is  seen.  When  cold  be.at  in  the 
flavoring.     Serve  very  cold.  — Mrs.  J,  C.  Daniels. 

Lemon  Custard 

One  lemon,  two  eggs,  one  pint  of  bread  crumbs,  one  quart  of  milk, 
half  cup  sugar,  grate  the  yellow  part  of  the  rind  from  the  lemon  and  put  in 
the  custard  and  put  the  whites  of  the  eggs  and  lemon  juice  and  half  of  the 
half  cup  ot  sugar  to  put  on  the  top.  — Mrs.  Eda  Ricks. 


57 


Strawberry  Fluff 

Beat  the  whites  of  two  eggs  until  very  stiff,  add  four  tablespoons  of 
sugar,  and  beat  again,  add  two  tablespoons  of  strawberry  preserves  and 
continue  beating,  A  few  nuts  chopped  in  fine  pieces  is  an  agreeable  ad- 
dition.    Other  preserves  and  jellies  may  be  substituted  for  the   strawberry. 

— Mrs.  E,  S.  Lorenz,  Dayton,  Ohio. 


Meridian  Street  i  ANDERSON,  INDIANA. 

~       -  - 

ROCHESER  SHOE  STORE, 

Home  of  Good  Siloes, 
ANDEP50N        -        =        INDIANA. 

CLOTHES  of  QUALITY 

Suits  and  Overcoats  $10,00, 
Pants  $3.00  and  Up,  at 

Anderson.  !nd.  ABES   MISFIT. 


58 


jftsb  anb  ©peters 


Salmon  Loaf 

One  can  salmon  beaten  to  pieces  with  a  silver  fork  and  the  bones  taken 
out,  four  eggs  beaten  foamy,  add  one-half  cup  cream,  beat  and  add  to 
salmon,  three  or  four  tablespoons  melted  butter,  two  cups  rolled  cracker 
crumbs,  Egg-o-see,  l^lxcello  or  any  such  breakfast  food  can  be  used — are 
better  than  crackers  if  fiesh.  Two  tablespoons  lemon  juice,  strained, 
vinegar  can  be  used,  one-half  teaspoon  salt  and  a  little  red  pepper.  Bake 
a  little  more  than  one-half  hour.  — Mrs.  W.  A.  Bowman. 

Scalloped  Oysters 

Place  oysters  and  crackers  alternately  in  a  granite  pan  until  you  have 
the  desired  amount,  using  plenty  salt,  pepper  and  butter  between  each 
layer,  cover  with  cream,  bake  in  a  hot  oven  until  brown  on  top. 

— Ida  Young. 

Salmon  Loaf 

Two  cans  salmon,  four  eggs,  four  tablespoonfuls  butter,  one-half  cup 
bread  crumbs,  salt,  red  pepper  and  parsley  to  taste.  Chop  fish  fine,  drain, 
rub  iu  butter  until  smooth,  beat  crumbs  with  eggs,  seasoning  before  put- 
ting in  with  salmon.      Steam  one  hour. 

Sauce — One  cup  boiling  milk,  one  tablespoonful  corn  starch.  Take 
liquor  from  fish  and  put  in  butter,  three  tablespoonfuls  tomato  catsup, 
mace,  pepper  an<l  salt  to  taste,  one  egg,  stir  into  milk  until  thick. 

—Mrs.  C.  L.  Kelly,  Kokomo,  Ind. 

Fried  Fish 

When  the  Ush  is  properly  cleaned,  wipe  it  dry,  then  rub  with  plenty  of 
salt  and  pepper,  let  it  lay  an  hour  or  two,  roll  ia  corn  meal,  fry  in  sufficient 
!ard  for  it  to  Hwim  in,  have  lard  hot  before  putting  it  in  and  it  will  come 
out  nicely  browned  and  will  be  delicious. 

— Mrs.  Sarah  Tarkleson. 

Salmon  Croquettes 

One  can  salmon,  half  cup  fine  cracker  crumbs,  mix  well  together,  make 
into  cakes.  Boat  an  egg  and  dip  the  cakos  in  it  then  in  cracker  crumbs 
and  fry  to  a  nice  brown.  Mis.  J.  T.  Ilobson. 


59 


Creamed  Salmon 

Remove  salmon  from  can,  take  out  all  bones  and  mash  fine,  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste.  Place  sauce  pan  on  stove  and  heat  salmon  slowly.  Add 
one  cup  of  sweet  cream  and  one  tablespoonful  of  flour  moistened  in  milk. 
Cook  five  minutes.  — Mrs.  E.  M.  Boston. 

Fried  Salmon 

One  can  salmon,  four  eggs,  crackers  rolled  fine  and  well  mixed  with 
salmon  and  eggs  until  they  adhere,  make  out  in  cakes.  Fill  frying  pan 
sufficient  to  cover  with  lard  and  butter  equal  parts.  Have  extra  hot,  lay  in 
cakes  and  fry  until  brown,  turn  over  and  fry  brown  on  other  side,  serve 
hot.  —Mrs.  W.  C.  Cook. 

Salmon  Croquettes 

One  can  of  salmon,  chipped,  one  cup  of  milk,  one  cup  of  cracker 
crumbs,  one  egg  beaten.  Make  into  small  cakes,  dip  in  beaten  egg  or  milk, 
and  roll  in  cracker  crumbs  and  fry  in  butter  and  lard. 

— Mrs.  Mildred  Edwards. 


the  Golden  J\uk 
Incubators 


— have  passed  tlie  experimental  stage  long  ago, 
and  are  now  being  successfully  used  by  hun- 
dreds of  poultry  raisers  throughout  the  country. 
— Oar  machines  are  within  the  reach  of  all.  We 
guarantee  them  to  do  the  work  properly.  They 
are  easy  to  operate  and  simple  in  construction. 
Don't  overlook  the  advantage  that  comes  from  buying  at  home, 

th^  6oIden  Huh  Incubator  (^ 

W,  5.  Vantuyl,  General  manager, 

tTiiddktown,  Tnd. 


eo 


Ices 


Pineapple  Sherbet 

One  grated  pineapple,  three  oranges,  the  peel  of  one  grated,  one  and 
one  half  quarts  of  water  and  one  quart  of  sugar.  Let  cotne  to  a  boil,  then 
strain,  add  one  tablespoonful  of  gelatine  dissolved  in  cold  water,  and  the 
juice  of  three  lemons  Freeze  until  it  begins  to  ice  then  add  whites  of 
three  eggs,  beaten  stiff.  —Mrs.  Margaret  Eraswiller. 

E}?:gless  Ice  Cream 

To  one  gallon  of  new  milk  add  a  quart  of  sugar  and  one  cup  of  flour. 
Boil  for  a  few  minutes.  When  put  in  fieezer,  add  one  pint  of  sweet  cream, 
flavor.  — Mrs.   Minerva  Arnett. 

Sherbet 

Four  cups  granulated  sugar,  two  large  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  mix  to. 
gether  and  add  to  it  two  quarts  boiling  water  and  boil  just  a  little,  strain 
and  cool.  When  cold  add  juice  of  four  oranges  and  one  lemon.  The 
whites  of  two  beaten  eggs  added  just  before  freezing.  The  juice  of  any 
fruit  can  be  used  if  desired  and  less  water,  [.ineapple  being  very  fine.  This 
amount  will  servo  fifteen  to  twenty  people,  according  to  amount  served. 

—Crystal  Kelly. 

Banana  Ice 

Peel  six  bananas,  pound  to  a  pulp  with  a  spoon,  stir  into  this  the  juice 
of  two  large  lemons  and  rub  through  u  sieve  Add  one  pint  of  whipped 
cream  and  sweeten  to  taste,   freeze.  — Daisye  Robrback. 

Vanilla  Ice  Cream 

One  pint  of  milk,  one  cupful  of  sugar,  scant  one-half  cup  of  flour,  two 
egg.",  one  quart  of  cream,  one  tablespoon  of  vanilla,  and  when  cream  is 
added,  another  cup  of  sugar.  Beat  the  first  cup  of  sugar,  the  flour  and 
eggs  together  and  ulir  into  boiling  milk,  cool,  stirring  often  then  add  sugar 
seasoning  and  cream,  and  freeze. 

—  Mrs.  Bessie  Fleming,  Mrs.  F.  P.  Miller. 


61 


Sherbet — We-Three 

Thiee  oranges,  three  bananas,  three  lemons,  three  pints  water,  one 
pint  sugar.     Mix  and  freeze.  — Ethel  Spore  George. 

Maple  Ice  Cream 

To  one  oup  maple  sugar  add  beaten  yolks  of  four  eggs,  cook  in  granite 
pan  until  it  boils,  stirring  it  all  the  while.  Strain  through  a  sieve  and  cool. 
Beat  one  pint  cream,  add  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  eggs,  whip  syrup  until 
light.     Mix  all  logether  and  freeze.  SeleoLed. 

Pineapple  Sherbet 

Four  cups  granulated  sugar,  two  tablespoons  flour  mixed  with  sugar, 
and  two  quarts  of  boiling  water  added  to  sugar,  boil  just  a  little,  strain  and 
let  cool.  Juioe  of  two  lemons  and  one  can  of  pineapple  coloring  if  desired, 
strain,  whites  of  two  eggs  beaten  and  added  just  before  freezing.  Will 
make  one  gallon  and  serve  25  people.  — Olive  Mills. 

Ice  Cream 

One-half  gallon  of  milk,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  yolks  of  three 
eggs,  cook  together  and  when  cool  add  whites  of  the  eggs,  sugar  and  flavor- 
ing and  fill  up  with  cream.  — Mrs.  Ella  Maddy. 

Sherbet 

Four  cups  of  granulated  sugar,  two  large  tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  mix 
together  and  add  it  to  two  quarts  boiling  water  an  d  boil  just  a  little,  strain 
and  cool.  When  cold  add  juice  of  four  oranges  and  one  lemon.  The 
whites  of  two  beaten  eggs  added  just  before  freezing.  One- half  pint  of 
whipped  cream  can  be  used  instead  of  eggs.  Color  if  desired.  The  juice 
of  any  fruit  can  be  used  if  desired  and  less  water,  pineapple,  apricot  and 
cherry  being  very  fine.  This  amount  will  serve  fifteen  to  twenty  people, 
according  to  amount  served.  — Mrs.  Mary  Cummins, 

Maple  Whip 

Four  eggs,  two  cups  maple  syrup,  one  quart  cream.  Put  syrup  on  in 
double  boiler,  when  hot  add  the  beaten  yolks  and  cook  five  minutes.  Then 
take  off  the  stove,  add  the  whites  beaten  stifl!'  and  beat  the  mixture  until 
cold.  Then  add  cream  which  has  been  beaten  very  stiff,  and  pour  into 
freezer,  pack  in  ice  and  lots  of  salt  and  let  stand  5  hours. 

— Nell  Swope. 


62 


FVozen  Pudding 

Separate  five  eggs;  take  the  yolks,  stir  with  one  cup  sugar,  one  cup  of 
milk,  flavor  to  taste,  put  in  a  pan,  set  in  a  kettle  boiling  water,  let  cook  un- 
til it  thickens;  after  it  is  cool,  add  two  teaspoons  dissolved  gelatine  and 
whites  of  eggs  well  beaten.  White  part:  beat  one  quart  of  cream,  flavor 
and  sweeten,  add  two  teaspoons  of  gelatine.  Put  in  freezer,  first  a  spoon- 
ful of  custard,  then  spoonful  cream,  and  so  on  until  all  is  used,  pack  in 
plenty  of  salt  and  ice  and  let  stand  5  hours,  no  turning  necessary. 

— Mrs.  W.  H.  Hughes,  Bloomington,  Ind. 

[The  remaining  recipes  in  this  department  are  taken  from 
The  Religious  Telescope] 

Lemon  Sherbet 

Freeze  two  quarts  of  new  milk  and  four  large  cupfuls  of  fine  granulat- 
ed sugar  until  thick  and  white,  then  add  two  coffee  cupfuls  of  lemon  juice 
which  has  been  strained,  and  freeze  until  stiff;  repack  and  cover  allowing  it 
to  stand  two  hours. 

Red  Raspberry  Sherbet 

One  and  one-half  quarts  of  red  raspberries  crushed;  juice  of  four 
lemons;  two  and  one-half  pounds  of  sugar.  When  nearly  stiff  add  the 
whites  of  two  eggs  well  beaten. 

Tea  Sherbet 

One  quart  of  strong  tea  freshly  made;  two  cups  of  granulated  sugar; 
the  juice  of  three  lemons.      Freeze  the  s:ime  as  any  sherbet. 

Plum  Sherbet 

Two  quarts  of  rich  sweetened  juice  poured  off  from  canned  or  freshly 
stewed  Ciiickasaw  plums;  two  quarts  of  cold  water.  Freeze  nearly  stiff, 
then  add  the  whites  of  two  eggs  well  beaten. 

Cranberry  Sherbet 

Particularly  refreshing  in  hot  weather.  Cook  very  tender,  sweeten 
and  rub  through  a  colander;  add  an  equal  amount  of  water  and  freeze. 
When  stiff  add  the  whites  of  two  eggs  beaten  stiff. 


68 


Bisque  Cream 
One  quart  of  cream  whipped  stiff.     Beat  into  it  one   cupful   of   maca- 
roons, powdered  or  rolled  fine,  and  six  tablespoonfuls  of  fine  sugar.     Paek 
in  a  freezer  and  let  it  stand  several  hours. 

Nut  Cream 

One  quart  of  cream,  two-thirds  cupful  of  sugar.  Freeze  partly  stiff, 
then  add  a  cupful  of  chopped  nutmeats  (pecans,  English  walnuts,  or 
blanched  almonds).     Freeze  stiff  aud  let  it  stand  two  hours. 

Strawberry  Ice 

To  two  iDounds  of  mashed  strawberries  add  two  pounds  of  granulated 
suoar  and  stand  aside  for  an  hour.  Then  put  the  mixture  through  a  hair 
sieve  or  a  thin  cloth.  To  the  sweetened  juice  secured  add  an  equal  quantity 
of  water,  and  freeze.  When  the  mixture  is  half  frozen,  add  the  whipped 
whites  of  three  eggs. 

Cocoanut  Ice-Cream 

Heat  one  cupful  of  sugar  with  one  quart  of  cream  until  dissolved;  cool 
and  add  one  freshly-grated  cocoanut.  Freeze  and  before  it  is  stiff  add  the 
white  of  one  egg  beaten  stiff.     Pack  and  let  it  stand  a  couple  of  hours. 

Pineapple  Ice 

To  one  large  pineapple,  peeled  and  grated  very  fine,  add  the  juice  of 
two  lemons  and  two  quarts  of  water.  Make  very  sweet  with  granulated 
sugar  (freezing  extracts  the  sweetness),  and  freeze. 

Cherry  Ice 

Stone  and  bruise  one  quart  of  ripe  cherries  and  place  them  over  the 
fire  with  one  pint  of  sugar  and  one  pint  of  water.  Bring  the  mixture  to  a 
boil,  then  simmer  five  minutes.  Pass  through  a  hair  sieve,  add  the  juice 
of  two  lemons  and  enough  sugar  to  make  quite  sweet.  Freeze,  and  serve 
in  tall  glasses  with  a  garnish  of  whole  cherries. 

Raspberry  Ice 

To  three  quarts  of  raspberry  juice  add  one  quart  of  strong  lemonade. 
Make  very  sweet,  turn  into  the  freezer,  then  add  the  whipped  whites  of  six 
eggs^  and  freeze. 


64 


Currant  Ice 

Make  a  thick  syrup  of  one  and  one- half  pounds  of  granulated  sugar 
cooked  in  three  pints  of  water;  add  two  cupfuls  of  currant  juice,  turn  into 
the  freezer,  and  when  partly  frozen  stir  in  the  beaten  whites  of   five  eggs. 

Orange  Ice 

To  the  juice  of  twelve  oranges  and  the  grated  peel  of  six,  add  the  juice 
of  three  lemons  and  sugar  to  make  very  sweet.  Let  stand  one  hour  to 
ripen,  then  freeze  in  the  usual  way. 

Lemon  Ice 

To  the  juice  of  six  lemons  and  the  grated  peel  of  three,  add  the  juice 
and  grated  peel  of  one  orange,  one  pint  of  water  and  one  pint  of  sugar. 
Let  stand  an  hour,  then  freeze. 

Apple  Ice 

Select  finely  flavored  apples ;  to  each  quart  of  grated  fruit  add  one 
pound  of  sugar  and  the  juice  of  one  lemon.  Let  the  mixture  ripen  an  hour, 
then  add  an  equal  measure  of  water.  When  half  frozen  stir  in  the  whipped 
whites  of  three  eggs. 

THE  Capital  Stock,  $30,000. 

FARMERS'     Surplus,  $20,000 
STATE  BANK. 

Does  a  General  Banking  Business, 
Special  attention  given  to  Collections, 
Prompt  remittance  Guaranteed. 
Your  deposits  solicited. 
Interest  on  time  Deposits. 

ADOLPH  COOPER,  Cashier. 


6?» 


iflDeats  anb  2)tes8ino8 


MEAT  ACCOMPANIMENTS 

Apple  gauce  with  roast  pork. 

Mint  sauce  with  roast  Iamb. 

Oyster  and  chestnut  dressing  with  roast  turkey. 

Current  jelly  with  roast  goose. 

Celery  sauce  with  quail. 

Tart  grape  jelly  with  canvasback  duck. 

Orange  salad  with  roast  chicken. 

Cream  gravy,  strawberry  preserves  with  fried  chicken. 

Celery  and  onion  dressing  with  roast  duck. 

Olives  stuffed  with  cheese  with  cold  tongue. 

Olives  stuffed  with  peppers  with  fish-balls. 

Cucumber  catsup  with  corned  beef. 

French  dressing  with  sardines. 

Melted  butter  sauce  with  mackerel. 

White  sauce,  hard-boiled  eggs  and  parsley  with  boiled  salmon. 

Beef  and  Pork  Loaf 

Twenty  cents  worth  of  meat,  half  of  beef  and  half  of  pork,  one-half 
teaspoon  of  salt,  one- half  teaspoon  of  pepper,  one  teaspoon  sage,  two  tea- 
spoons of  vinegar,  one-half  cup  of  sweet  milk,  a  little  ground  mustard, 
enough  cracker  or  bread  crumbs  to  make  the  loaf  stiff,  make  into  loaf,  and 
bake.     Pour  a  pint  of  boiling  water  over  the  loaf  before  baking. 

— Mrs.  Ocie  Guthrie. 

Fried  Hash 

(^ul  one  half  pound  of  sausage  or  scraps  of  lean  meat  into  very  small 
bits,  and  fry  real  iirown  with  one  pint  of  chopped  onions,  have  ready  one 
and  one-half  pints  of  potatoes,  which  have  been  cut  into  small  cubes  and 
previously  boiled  in  salted  water,  pour  into  the  skillet  of  meat  and  onions, 
cook  a  few  minutes,  season  with  salt  and  pepper. 

— Edna  May, 


66 


Kentucky  Croquettes 

Take  equal  parts  of  cbicken  and  veal  chopped  very  fine,  one- fourth 
pound  chopped  almonds,  half  pint  mashed  potatoes.  Mix  and"  season  with 
salt,  pepper  and  mustard  to  suit  laste.  One  cup  sweet  milk,  two  teaspoons 
flour,  two  teaspoons  butter,  one  egg;  mix  thoroughly;  cook  in  a  double 
boiler  till  thick,  then  mix  with  chicken  and  when  cold  form  into  croquettes, 
then  roll  in  bread  or  cracker  crumbs,  dip  in  egg  and  fry  in  hot  lard. 

— Martha  Young. 

Gravy 

To  make  a  good  rich  gravy  without  the  expense  of  much  meat.  Put  a 
heaping  tablespoon  of  butter  in  the  frying  pan,  let  it  get  hot,  then  one  cup 
of  sausage  or  chopped  beef  (dried  beef  is  fine)  or  meat.  Let  fry  until 
brown,  add  one  pint  of  milk  thickened  with  flour,  add  salt  and  pepper. 

— Mrs.  Mildred  Miller. 

Baked  Chicken  Pie 

Joint  the  chicken  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  cover  with  water 
and  boil  until  tender.  Make  a  crust  as  follows:  Flour,  one  teaspoonful  of 
baking  powder,  a  little  salt,  one-half  cup  of  shortening  and  moisten  with 
sweet  milk  to  make  a  stifle  dough  Line  a  dish  or  pan  with  crust  and  fill  in 
your  chicken,  one  layer  and  some  of  the  dough,  then  alternately  until  the 
dish  is  full,  make  a  gravy  with  one  tablespoonful  of  flour  and  one  pint  of 
sweet  milk;  pour  this  over  the  chicken,  then  fill  up  the  dish  and  cover 
with  a  top  crust,  making  one  or  two  holes  in  top  for  steam  to  escape.  Bake 
three  quarters  of  an  hour.  — Montrew  Hottinger. 

Beef  Patties 

Two  eu[)s  of  cold  boiled  beef,  ground  fine,  two  eggs  well   beaten,    one- 
lird  cup  of  creum^  eight  crackers  rolled  fine.      Make    in    small    balls   and 
tky.  —Ethel  Fadely, 

Chicken  Loaf 

Cook  chicken  until  It  will  fall  from  bones,  chop  meat  fine,  add  two 
eggs,  one  dozen  butter  crackers,  rolled  fine,  season  to  taste  with  salt  and 
pepper  and  spoon  of  butter  if  chicken  is  not  extra  fat.  Mix  well,  form  In 
loaf  and  bake  one-half  hour,  usoiug  the  broth  and  basting  well, 

— Mrs  Izora  Jordan,  Indianapolis,  lod. 


I 


V 


67 


Noodles 

For  one  cbickea,  six  eggs,  oue  teaspoon  salt,  mix  to  a  stiff  dough,  di- 
vide into  four  parts,  roll  very  thin,  spread  out  to  dry,  when  partly  dry,  rub 
a  little  flour  over,  roll  up  light  and  shave  very  fine  with  a  thin,  sharp  knife, 
drop  into  the  boiling  broth  and  cook  la  minutes. 

— Mrs.  Jasper  Sanders. 

Roast  Ribs 

Take  a  nice  side  of  rib3,  wash  and  rub  well  with  salt,  then  roll  in  flour 
letting  all  the  flour  remain  on  it  that  will,  lay  it  carefully  in  a  drippiuty 
pan;  pepper  well  and  sprinkle  over  it  one  tablespoon  granulated  sugar, 
keep  enough  water  in  bottom  of  pan  to  prevent  burning,  cook  slowlv  till 
done,  turning  it  over  once  or  twice.  Kemove,  stir  one  tablespoon  flour 
into  one  pmt  milk,  pour  into  tha  pan,  let  it  boil.  This  makes  a  delicious 
gravy  to  serve  with  the  meat.  — Margai'et  L.  Brown. 

To  Boil  a  Ham 

Scrape  and  wash  well  and  if  very  salty,  soak  over  night.  To  every  ten 
pounds  of  meat  add  one  scant  cup  of  sugar,  cover  with  cold  water,  bring 
to  a  boil  then  cook  slowly;  cook  fifteen  minutes  for  every  pound,  keep  it 
covered  with  water,  when  done  remove  from  fire,  let  it  cool  in  the  broth 
for  1  hour,  then  remove.  — Mrs.  Mary  King. 

Pigs  Feet  Pickled 

Take  twelve  pig  feet,  serape  and  wash  them  clean,  put  them  in  a  sauce 
pan  with  enough  hot  water  to  cover.  When  partly  done  salt  them.  It  re- 
quires four  or  five  hours  to  boil  them  soft,  pack  them  in  a  stone  crock,  and 
pour  over  them  spiced  vinegar  made  hot.  They  will  be  ready  to  use  in  a 
day  or  two.  — Miss  Hattie  Fadely. 

Smothered  Chicken 

Allow  an  hour  for  youag  fry  chickens  or  2  hours  for  5'ear  old  chick- 
ens, in  a  brisk  oven.  Cut  up  as  for  frying,  put  into  a  covered  roaster  or  a 
skillet  with  a  tin  pan  as  a  cover,  fitting  closely,  sprinkle  on  salt,  pepper, 
dredge  with  flour,  and  put  in  water  enough  to  cause  a  good  steam,  lumps 
of  butter  as  needed  to  enrich.  Baste  and  add  water  as  needed.  Make 
thickened  gravy.  — Mrs.  L.  0.  Miller. 


68 


Scalloped  Chicken 

Cook  chicken  until  tender.  Cut  in  small  pieces,  place  layer  in  baking 
dish  with  alternate  layers  of  butter  and  crackers  until  dish  is  full.  Season 
with  pepper  and  salt.  Pour  over  one  cup  sweet  cream  and  bake  slowly  1 
hour.  — Mrs.  Monroe  Miller,  Miss  Hattie  Fadely. 

Beef  Roll 

Two  pounds  of  round  stake,  one-fourth  pounds  of  pork  ground,  two 
eggs,  six  large  crackers,  butter  size  of  a  walnut,  one  teaspoon  each  sage, 
salt  (heaping),  pepper,  one  cup  sweet  milk,  a  few  stalks  of  celery  chopped 
very  fine.  Mix  thoroughly  with  the  hands.  Press  in  a  pan.  Bake  one 
and  one-half  hour,  pour  a  little  water  over  the  roll. 

. — Janie  Sanders. 

Stuffed  Beef  Steak 

Take  round  steak,  pound  well,  season,  then  spread  with  a  nice  dress- 
ing, roll  up  and  tie  closely  with  twine,  steam  one  hour  and  a  half. 

— Mrs.  Dora  Day,  Springport,  Ind, 

Roasted  Duck 

Scald,  roll, in  a  cloth  let  stand  awhile  and  then  pick.  Put  in  a  roaster, 
make  dressing  out  of  bread,  pepper  and  salt,  cover  the  duck  all  over,  then 
put  in  the  oven  and  roast  until  done.  —Caroline  Sunders. 

Meat  Loaf 

Two  pounds  hamburg  steak,  two  eggs,  one  cup  breai  crumbs,  one  cup 
milk,  butter  size  of  au  egg,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Onion  and  sage  if 
liked.  —Mrs.  P.  0.  Rhodes,  Shelby,  Ohio. 

Chicken  Pie 

Cook  chicken  real  tender,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  remove  the 
bones,  thicken  the  broth  with  cream  and  flour.  Por  crust —half  pint  of 
sour  milk,  half  teaspoon  of  soda  dissolved  in  the  milk,  half  teaspoon  salt, 
one  teaspoon  baking  powder,  teacup  of  lard  or  butter;  mix,  roll  and  line  a 
deep  pan,  put  in  chicken,  then  the  gravy,  season  well  with  butter  it  chicken 
is  not  very  fat,  put  on  top  crust  and  bake  three- fourths  of  an  hour, 

— Sallie  E,  Edwards. 


69 


Veal  Loaf 

Three  and  one-half  pounds  of  steak,  one  cup  of  rolled  crackers,  two 
eggs,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  one  teaspoonful  of  pepper,  one  tablespoonful 
of  salt  and  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg  Mix  all  together  and  bake 
three  hours.  Set  the  pan  which  contains  the  loaf  inside  a  roaster,  cover 
tightly,  and  it  will  bake  much  nicer.  — Mrs    J.  T.  Kelly. 

Chicken  Salad 

One  chicken  cooked  until  tender.  Chop  very  fine,  laying  aside  bone 
and  gristle,  chop  equal  amount  of  crisp  cabbage,  six  hard  boiled  eggs. 
Add  one  cup  strong  vinegar  and  one  tablespoon  each  of  mustard  and  celery 
seed,  one-half  cup  butter,  season  to  taste.  — Janie  Sanders. 

Old  Soldiers  Method  of  Cooking  Pickled  Pork 

Fry  the  pork  until  about  half  done,  Make  a  batter  with^one  egg,  well 
beaten,  one  or  two  tablespoonfuls  sweet  milK  or  cream,  and  flour  enough 
to  make  a  batter,  dip  the  slices  of  pork  in  the  batter  and  fry  to  a  light 
brown.  — Eael  M.  Smith. 

Veal  Loaf 

Two  pounds  of  veal  and  one  of  pork,  three  eggs,  salt  and  pepper,  one 
cup  of  cracker  crumbs,  one  onion,  one  cup  of  miik.  Form  in  a  loaf  with 
just  enou^.h  water  to  bake.  — Mrs.  Jacob  Fadely. 

Hamburg  Steak 

One  and  one-half  pounds  steak,  one  pound  porK,  one  onion,  two  egga, 
one-half  cup  cracker  crumbs,  chop  meat  and  onions,  add  salt  and  pepper, 
mix  well,  form  in  cakes  and  fry  till  brown  in  hot  lard. 

— Sophia  Keesling. 

A  Fine  Substitute  for  Fresh  Fish 

One  quart  of  flake  hominy,  cooked  in  as  little  water  as  possible,  salt 
to  suit  taste.  Let  cool,  and  add  one  can  of  Salmon  (white  prefered)  well 
mashed,  with  all  bones  removed,  stir  well  together,  make  into  flat  cakes; 
roll  in  corn  meal  and  fry  in  butter,  or  half  butter  and  meat  fryings. 

— Susie. 


70 


"the  Old  mabk" 

th^  abov^  name  has  been  given  us  bp  our 
customers,  and  we  confess  that  it  rather 
pleases  us.  We  hope  to  merit  a  continua- 
tion of  the  liberal  patronage  that  we  h^ve 
enjoyed  for  the  last  several  years.  Don't 
fail  to  give  us  a  call  when  needing 

Pure  Drugs,  Drug  Sundries, 
notions,  toilet  Jlrticks,  Per- 
fumery, Books,  Stationery, 
and  Jewelry. 

Wilkr  Bros. 


71 


Meat  Balls 

Take  scraps  of  cold  beef,  grind  up  fine  add  two  large  potatoes  and  one 
onion  (ground)  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  mix  well,  roll  into  halls  then  roll 
in  cracker  crumbs  and  fry  in  hot  lard  until  brown. 

— Emma  Rohrback. 

Veal  Loaf 

Two  pounds  veal,  one  half  pound  pork,  two    eggs,    one   cup    cracker 

meal,  one  half  cup  of  milk    two  tablespoons  melted    butter,    one   teaspoon 

salt,  one-fourth  teaspoou  pepper,  make  into  a    loaf.      Bake    two    or    three 

hours,  baste  ever  few  minutes.  — Lola  Strickler. 

Hambutger  Roast 

Two  and  one-fourth  pounds  of  beef,  three-fourth  pound  of  fresh  pork 
ground,  one  onion,  six  rolled  cracker?,  two  eggs,  mix  all  together,  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste.  — Cora  Myers. 

Veal  Scalloped 

One  cupful  of  chicken  or  veal,  one-half  teaspoonful  salt,  one-half  cup- 
ful of  bread  crumbs,  one  pint  of  broth  after  the  veal  has  been  cooked, 
pepper  and  parsley  to  taste.  Chop  or  grind  meat  fine,  soak  bread  crumbs 
in  milk  until  soft.  Mix  all  together  thoroughly  and  put  in  a  well  buttered 
pan  eo  that  the  mixture  is  two  and  a  half  or  three  inches  deep,  then  sprinkle 
dry  bread  crumbs  over  top  and  bits  of  butter.  If  mixture  seems  too  dry 
add  more  broth  and  milk.     Serve  on  toast. 

—Mrs.  H.  G.  Myers. 

Meat  Pie 

Use  scraps  of  boiled  or  roast  beef.  Put  in  kettle  with  plenty  of  water, 
but»:er  and  seasoning,  boil  slowly  for  one  hour,  use  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
flour  dissolved  in  milk  to  make  thin  gravy.  Line  bake  pan  with  good,  rich 
pie  dough,  fill  with  meat  and  gravy  adding  small  pieces  of  dough  Cover 
with  top  crust  and  bake  thoroughly  — Mrs.  W,  D.  Elliott. 

To  Roast  Btef 

Roll  in  flour,  slice  onions  and  green  tomatoes  over  the  top,  salt  and 
pepper,  add  water.     If  baked  in  steam  cooker  omit  water, 

— Dora  McDonald. 


72 


Creamed  Chicken 

Two  chickens  that  weigh  five  pounds  each  before  they  are  dressed, 
will  serve  twenty  people,  prepared  in  the  following  manner:  After  they 
are  cooked  tender  and  are  allowed  to  cool,  pick  from  bones,  chop  coarsely, 
using  the  fat  and  skin  from  the  thighs  and  wings,  place  a  layer  of  cracker 
crumbs  in  a  buttered  pan,  then  a  layer  of  the  chicken,  over  this  pour  gravy 
made  from  the  broth,  then  another  layer  of  crackers  and  so  on  until  you 
have  used  all  the  chicken.  Be  sure  to  add  enough  gravy  to  make  it  moist. 
Chopped  hard  boiled  eggs  can  be  added.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  about 
half  an  hour.  — Norah  Griffis, 

Roast  Turkey. 

Having  dressed  your  turkey  carefully,  rub  the  inside  with  salt,  and 
bang  up  to  drain  one  hour,  then  rub  dry  with  a  cloth,  then  make  a  simple 
dressing  of  fine  bread  crumbs,  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper  and  butter, 
moisten  with  sweet  milk  and  two  eggs,  and  put  inside  of  turkey.  Then 
melt  some  lard  and  spread  on  a  cloth  and  spread  the  cloth  over  the  turkey, 
then  grease  a  paper  the  same  way  and  spread  over  cloth  and  then  spread  a 
brown  paper  over  all  and  put  a  cup  of  water  in  the  pan,  and  do  not  baste 
the  turkey  as  the  greased  cloth  will  keep  it  moist  and  prevent  burning.  If 
the  top  paper  scorches  replace  wiih  another  until  the  turkey  is  nearly  done. 
Then  remove  all  coverings  for  a  few  minutes,  to  allow  the  turkey  to  brown, 

Mrs    Millie  Miller. 

Ham  Patties. 

One  quart  of  bread  crumbs  soaked  over  night  in  enough  milk  to 
molpteu,  one  quart  of  cold  boiled  ham  chopped  fine,  one- half  teaspoon  salt, 
and  the  same  of  pepper.  Mix  thoiougbly  and  make  out  into  little  patties, 
place  in  a  bake  pan,  make  a  hole  in  the  top  of  each  large  enough  to  hold  an 
egg;  break  an  egg  in  each  and  bake  for  twenty  minutes 

Blanche  Stewart, 

To  Keep  Beef  Moist 
Cut  beef  in  pieces  from  one  to  four  pounds  in  size.     Roll  in  crackling 
hot  salt  until  well  covered,  pack  in  a  wooden  vessel  for  fifteen  hours,    then 
hang  behind  the  cook  stove  to  dry.     Leave  from  four  to  six  weeks,    and   it 
will  be  found  moist  and  good  to  eat  during  the  year.  D.  B, 


7:^ 


Pressed  Meat 

Eight  pig  feet,  four  pig  ears,  boil  until  meat  will  drop  off  the  bones. 
Kemove  the  bones,  chop  the  meat  until  very  fine,  one-half  teaspoonful  pep- 
per, one  cup  vinegar,  salt  to  suit  taste.  Put  this  back  in  the  broth  and  let 
come  to  a  boil  again.     Set  where  it  will  cool  quickly 

Golda  Greenlee,  Frances  Morrison. 

Square  Dumplings. 

Flour,  one  and  one- half  cups  sour  milk,  one  egg,  three  tablespoons 
butter,  one  teaspoon  soda,  one  teaspoon  baking  powder,  one  teaspoon  salt. 
Roll  out  thin  and  cut  into  small  squares, 

Ivy  Inman, 

Roast  Turkey — Dry  Dressing. 

Prepare  the  turkey  the  evening  before  using,  in  the  morning  rub  with 
salt  and  pepper  inside  and  out.  Dry  Dressing — three  pints  stale  bread 
rubbed  flue  as  can  be.  one-half  teacup  butter,  one  egg  rubbed  with  crumbs, 
pepper,  sage  and  salt  to  taste,  oysters  drained  and  added  if  desired;  fill 
turkey  and  sew  up.  Butter  outside  and  dredge  with  flour,  place  in  roaster 
aad  add  water  to  baste  with.  After  the  turkey  is  done,  add  thickening  to 
slock,  (\\[  ping  gravy  over  dressing  before  serving. 

— Mrs.  Joe  Dutton. 

Veal  Loaf 

One  pound  of  veal,  one  fourth  pound  of  pork  aod  one  onion  chopped 
very  fine,  a«ld  one  egg,  one  cup  of  cracker  crumbs,  salt  an(t  pepper.  Bake 
two  and  one- half  hours.  —Mrs.  0,  0.  Inmau,  Springfield,  111. 

Drop  Dumplings 

To  one  pint  of  flour,  add  one  and  one-half  teaspoon  baking  powder, 
one  pinch  ot  salt;  sift  all  together.  Use  enough  sweet  milk  to  make  a  stifl' 
batter;  drop  irom  spoon  into  broth,  from  which  the  stew  has  been  removed, 
cover  closely;  boil  from  5  to  7  minutes.     Test  with  a  fork. 

— Mrs.  Noffsinger. 

Fried  Pork  Chops 

Salt,  then  dip  into  a  well  beaten  egg,  roll  in  cracker  crumbs  and  fry  in 
very  hot  lard.  —Mrs.  0.  0,  Inman, 


74 


Baked  Chicken  Dumplings 

One  cup  sweet  milk,  one-half  cup  butter,  one  teaspoon  baking  powder, 
pinch  of  salt,  flour  to  make  soft  dough.  Roll  thin  and  bake.  Thicken 
broth  for  gravy,  put  in  dumplings  snd  let  come  to  boil. 

— Mesdames  Monroe  Miller,  Alcinda  Sharp. 

Curing  Meats — Sugar  Cure_Hams,  Shoulders  and  Bacon 

Ten  pounds  of  salt  for  one  hundred  pounds  of  meat,  four  pounds  of 
light  brown  sugar,  one-half  pound  of  saltpeter,  one  pound  of  black  pepper. 
Dissolve  the  saltpeter  in  three  quarts  of  boiling  water,  pour  over  the  rest  in 
laro-e  dish  pan  and  mix,  then  take  hand  and  rub  the  mixture  well  into  the 
meat  and  around  the  ends,  place  where  it  can  drip  for  ten  to  twenty-one 
days,  hang  and  smoke. 

BEEF  PICKEL  FOR  100  POUNDS 

Sis  pounds  of  salt,  two  pounds  of  sugar,  boil  and  skim,  two  ounces  of 
saltpeter,  two  ounces  of  baking  soda,  hot  water  to  dissolve.  Put  over  beef 
while  hot,  for  dried  beef  leave  in  ten  days.  Will  corn  beef  and  keep  all 
summer  by  reboiling  and  skimming  once  in  a  while. 

Tender  loins  are  fine  boiled  until  done  then  set  into  oven  to  dry  a  little, 
and  put  into  jars,  lard  put  over  them  for  summer  use 

Sausage  is  fine  packed  into  one- half  gallon  crocks  two-thirds  full  and 
baked  in  a  slow  oven  two  hours  When  out  put  plate  over  with  weight  and 
cover  with  lard,  — Mrs.  Seth  Mills, 

Ham  and  Potato  Pie 

Slice  ham  and  potatoes  very  thin.  Line  a  deep  pan  with  rich  pie  crust 
then  the  ham.  potatoes  and  dough  in  alternate  layers  with  a  sprinkle  of 
salt,  pepper  and  flour  over  the  potatoes,  fill  with  water  an(i  bake  with  a  top 
crust  for  two  and  one-half  or  three  hours.  Imo  Fleming 

Veal  Loaf 

Three  and  one-half  pounds  of  steak,  one  cup  of  rolled   crackers,    two 

-eggs,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  one  teaspoon   of    pepper,    one   tablespoon   of 

salt,  butter  size  of  an  egg.      Mix  all  together  and    bake   three    hours.     Set 

the  pan  which  contains  the  loaf  inside  roaster,  cover  tightly  and  it  will  bake 

much  nicer,  — Eva  Showalter, 


75 


Beefsteak  Pie 

One  pound  of  beefsteak,  one  onion,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter  Hack 
beefsteak  and  onion  together  like  making  hash.  Put  on  stove  with  water 
and  cook  fifteen  minutes,  make  dough  like  ordinary  pie  crust;  after  remov- 
ing beefsteak  from  fire  put  in  three  hard  boiled  eggs,  chopped,  season  with 
salt,  pepper  and  mustard  to  suit  taste.  Then  put  in  crust  with  enough 
broth  to  cover,  sprinkle  over  with  flour,  put  on  top  crust  and  bake. 

— Jennie  Myer, 

Dumplings 

Sift  flour  in  pan  and  make  a  deep  hole  in  the  middle,  put  in  one  tea* 
spoon  salt,  one  lablespoon  baking  powder,  one  tablespoon  butter,  dip  two 
cups  of  boiling  broth  from  chicken  or  meat,  pour  into  the  flour,  stirring 
with  a  spoon,  when  cool  enough  knead  with  the  hands  to  a  smooth  dough, 
roll  thin,  cut  in  squares  and  drop  iu  boiling  broth  and  cook  fifteen  minutes. 

— Ethel  Lee. 

Ham  Sandwiches 
Fof  Large  Parties.  Socials  and  Teas 
Trim  the  rind  from  ^n  eight  or  ten  pound  ham,  wash  and  boil  till  quite 
tender,  three  or  four  hours  required,  and  almost  boiled  dry,  adding  a  cup 
of  sugar  while  boiling.  When  done  taRe  out  on  a  platter  and  sprinkle  a 
little  cinnamon,  pepper  and  sugar  on  it  and  cover  with  an  overturned  bowl 
or  pan  while  cooling.  Grind  with  a  meat  knife,  fat  and  lean  anJ  place  in 
a  stone  jar,  add  three  or  four  good  sized  bunches  of  celery  (cut  fine  with  a 
knife,  not  ground)  a  large  cupful  of  ground  horse-radish,  six  or  eight  hard 
boiled  eggs,  also  cut  fine,  place  all  together  in  the  jar  and  cover  with  a  good 
raayonaise  dressing  made  as  follows:  Six  well  beaten  eggs,  tablespoonful 
of  corn  starch  or  flour,  butter  size  of  an  egg.  one  quart  of  good  cider 
vinegar,  salt,  pepper  and  ground  mustard  to  taste,  with  a  little  water  added. 
Cook  in  double  boiler  stirring  constantly  and  when  cold  pour  over  the  meat 
and  lightly  mix  with  a  wooden  spoon.  Use  soft  buttered  bread,  sliced 
thin,  and  you  will  have  a  delicious  sandwich.  This  amount  will  serve  150 
or  200  persons,  spreading  30  or  more  loaves  of  bread. 

— Mrs.  G,  A.  Funkhouser. 


To  Bake  Meats 

Salt  and  pepper,  then  roll  in  flour  adding  enough  water  to  cook  meat 
done.     Cook  slow  four  hours,  adding  potatoes  the  last  hour. 

— Mrs.  Cal  Englerth. 

Dried  Beef  or  Ham  Sandwich 

Chop  one  pound  of  meat  very  fine,  stir  one  heaping  tablespoon  flour 
into  one  pint  rich  milk  or  cream  let  come  to  a  boil,  season  with  salt,  pepper 
and  butter,  stir  in  the  meat  and  cook  three  minutes.     Good  for  picnics. 

— Mrs.  B.  R.  In  man. 


©losing  Out  Sale 


of  Gents'  Furnishing  Goods,  Hats,  Gaps 
Suit  Gases  etc. 

Special  low  prices  for  Gaslt. 

Gall  and  see  me. 

M.  T.  seoTT  &  eo. 


77 


Ipa8tri2 


Butter  Scotch  Pie 

One  cup  of  sugar,  a  lump  of  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut,  a  little  water 
to  start  it  to  boiling,  cook  till  it  thickens.  One  egg,  one  cup  of  milk,  one 
big  spoonful  of  flour,  mis  all  together  and  cook,  pour  into  crusts  previously 
baked.  — Mrs.  M.  F.  Dawson,  Neita  Abshire. 

Chocolate  Pie 

One  cup  sugar,  two  eggs  (whites  for  top),  one  tablespoon  corn  starch, 
one  cup  milk,  two  tablespoons  chocolate.  — Mrs.  F.  P.  Miller. 

Lemon  Pie 

One  lemon  grated,  three  eggs,  one  cup  of  boiling  water  (added  last), 
oue  cup  sugar,  one  tablespoon  flour,  save  whites  of  two  eggs  for  top  of 
pie,  one  fourth  cup  of  sugar  to  whites.     Thicken  on  stove  in  double  boiler, 

Lola  Strickler,    Hannah  Real. 

Fruit  Custard  Pie 

Yolks  of  two  eggs,  one  half  cup  of  cream,  one  t&blespoonful  melted 
butler,  two  tabltspoonfuls  green  or  dried  fruit,  (if  dried  fruit  is  used  cook 
done  first  —  dried  apricots  are  fine  )  Sweeten  to  taste.  Bake  in  crust. 
Beat  whites,  sweeten  and  ice.  Mrs.  R.  J    Fudely, 

Mock  Lemon  Pie 

Three  eggs,  save  white  of  one,  one  cupful  sugar,  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
butter,  three  tablespoonsfuls  flour  or  corn  starch,  six  tablespoonsfuls  of  vine- 
gar, add  about  one  and  one  half  pints  boiling  water,  let  boil  and  add  lemon 
extract  to  suit  taste.  Whip  the  white  of  egg,  add  two  tablespoonsfuls  of 
sugar  aad  flavor,  spread  over  the  top  of  pies  and  brown.  This  will  make 
two  pies.  — Myrtle  Crabill. 

Mince  Pie 

One  pint  of  water,  six  crackers,  butter  tlie  size  of  an  egg,  one  half  cup 
of  vinegar,  one  cup  of  molasses,  one-h-.ilf  cup  of  sugar,  one  teaspooaful 
each  of  cinnamon,  clover,  spice  and  nutmog.  One  cup  of  rasins,  cut  fine, 
will  make  four  pies.  — Miss  Manda  Wright, 


Butter  Scotch  Pic 

Yolk  of  one  egg,  one  cup  of  brown  sugar,  two  tablespoonful  flour,  one 
cup  milk,  small  lump  butter.  Heat  the  milk  and  butter,  make  a  batter  of 
egg,  sugar  and  flour,  stir  in  the  milk,  let  cook  until  thick,  put  into  crusts 
already  baked.      Beat  the  white  ot  egg  and  spread  on  top. 

— Mrs.  Isaac  Lindamood,  Mrs.  D    M.  Brown,  Pendleton,  Ind. 

Washing:ton  Pie 

One  egg.  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  half  cup  of  milk  or  water,  butter  the 
size  of  an  egg,  one  teaspoon  of  baking  powder,  make  as  stiff  baiter  as  for 
cake,  bake  in  jelly  pan,  slip  off  on  a  plate,  and  spread  with  strawberry  jam, 
over  this  spread  the  white  of  one  egg  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth  with  a  little 
sugar,  put  in  oven  till  brown,  eat  with  a  warm  sauce. 

Sauce — Three-fourths  cup  of  sugar,  three- fourths  cup  of  butter,  (or  a 
little  less)  one  tablespoon  of  flour^  one  pint  of  boiling  water,  salt  and  flavor 
boil  a  good  while.  — Mrs  A.  S.  Miller. 

Orange  Pie 

One  large  orange  and  one-half  of  a  iemon^  one  cup  sugar,  butter  size 
of  a  walnut,  two  tablespoons  corn  starch,  four  eggs,  one-half  cup  milk. 
Put  milk  and  one  cup  boiling  water  in  double  boiler,  then  grate  the  yellow 
part  of  orange,  squeeze  juice  into  a  bowl  and  lemon  juice  also,  then  put 
the  orange  and  lemon  in  another  bowl  and  pour  one  cup  boiling  water  over 
and  let  stand  until  you  beat  the  four  yolks  and  white  of  one  egg,  with  the 
butter,  sugar  and  starch;  then  add  the  juice  and  grated  rind  and  the  water 
from  the  orange  and  lemon,  a  pinch  of  salt;  then  pour  into  the  boiling  milk 
and  water,  stirring  all  the  time  until  well  cooked,  bake  shell,  put  ii  mixture 
and  add  whites  of  eggs  whipped  stiff  with  a  little  orange  flavor  and  powder- 
ed sugar  to  top  off  pie;  brown  in  oven.      Enough  for  two  pies 

— Mrs.  Belle  Ramsey, 

Lemon  Pie 

Yolks  of  three  eggs,  one  and  one  half  cups  of  sugar,  one- half  cup  flour 
butter  size  of  walnut,  one  and  one-half  pints  boiling  water,  one  grated 
lemon;  beat  the  whites  of  egg3  until  stiff,  put  on  pies  and  brown.  This 
makes  two  pies,  — Nettie  Fadely. 


79 


Banana  Pie 

One  half  cup  sugar,  yolks  of  two  eggs,  a  lump  of  butter  the  size  of  a 
walnut,  two  tableipooufuls  of  oorn  starch.  Mix  all  together  and  stir  into 
a  pint  of  boiling  milk  and  let  cook  until  it  thickens,  when  done  slice  two 
large  bananas  into  it.  Bake  crusl  as  for  lemon  pie  then  pour  in  the  flUing. 
Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  and  put  on  the  top  and  set  in  the  oven  to 
brown.  — Mabel  Jackson. 

Batter  Scotch  Pie 

Bake  your  crust  for  fllliug.  One  cup  of  brown  sugar,  one  cup  of  milk, 
one  egg,  two  tablespoons  of  flour,  one  teaspoon  of  butter.  Cook  sugar, 
butter  and  enough  milk  to  moisten  sugar  until  very  thick,  stir  constantly, 
Have  ready  the  flour,  egg  and  cup  of  milk  beaten  smoothly,  then  add  to 
the  tafl'y  and  cook  till  thick,     Use  the  white  of  egg  for  top. 

— Mattie  E.  Craven. 

Butter  Milk  Pie 

Yolks  of  two  eggs,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  lump  of  butter,  two  table- 
spoons flour,  two  cups  butter  milk,  Cook  until  thick,  flavor  with  lemon, 
put  into  a  baked  crust  and  cover  with  beaten  whites  of  eggs,  then  brown  la 
oven,  — India  Cooper, 

Lemon  Cream  Pic 

One  and  one  half  pints  rich  milk  or  cream,  three  tablespoons  of  eorn 
starch,  one  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  two  tablespoons  butter,  grated  riod 
and  juice  of  two  lemons,  yolks  four  eggs.  Boil  the  milk,  add  corn  starch 
dissolved  in  a  little  cold  milk,  when  it  re-boils,  take  oflf,  beat  in  sugar, 
butter,  yolks,  lemon  jutce  and  rind;  pour  at  once  into  pie  plates  lined  with 
paste;  bake  in  hot  oven  t;bout  twenty  minutes.      Enough  for  two  plea, 

— Mrs,  8.  P,  Ledgerwood, 

Banana  Pie 

Mash  together  two  medium  sized  bauanas,  add  one  tablespoonful  of 
flour,  with  four  tablespoonfuls  of  granulated  sugar,  yolks  of  two  eggs  well 
beaten  and  one  pint  of  sweet  milk.  Bake  as  custard  pie  and  when  done 
pour  over  the  top  the  whites  of  two  eggs  well  beaten  to  which  has  been 
added  one  teaspoonful  of  granulated  sugar.  Put  In  oven  to  brown.  Serve 
hot.  — Alma  Addison, 


80 


Mock  Mince  Pie 

1  One  Clip  ofirai8in8>  one  piat  bread  orumba,  a  little  bufeberiOae-balf  cup 

of  viaegar,  one  cup  and  halfofbrowa  sugar,  one-half   teaspoon    of   oinna-  n 

moQi  cloves,  and  one  pint  of  boiling  wateif.    ^iMakes  tbree.pies.  ,  >   .  c  i  ■  i  i: 

:,                      'Hi  1!   !»)•)'  ii'  -r    -         -^^aroline  Sandersv  I  l 

'"  ■'  ''    '",  \''   \'     "  Ciistard  Pic  "■■''■ '^ 

Two  eggs  well  beaten,  a  pinch  of  salt,  two  heaping  tablespoons  of  soft 
white  sugar,  one  pint  of  sweet  i&rikf'atiUttle  nutmeg.     Bake  in  a  slow  oven. 

,>il!!,   1..  .;i>-.    I  (•  ;i  i  I  ^  !iv  ■    .    !,   -  I  ■       (       ■.  -_Mr&.' Lert-Fadely; ■■■.■" 

'    "^  Custard  rics  . 

For.two  pip^  use  four  eggs,  saving  out  the  whites  of  three  for  sepa,rate    j| 
beating.      Beat  the  white, of  the  fourth  egg ,  with    the   yolk^   to    make   the      , 
custard  firm.,    yse  a  heaping  tablespoon  of  flour,  three  cups  ri?h  milk,  one 
cap  sugar;  mix  sugar,  flour,  eggs  and  milk.     Bake  till    done    then    spread 
the  beaten  whites  over  the  top;  af»way8^j)ilt  thef'flav'oring    in    the    whites   of 
eggs.'ii  Sprinkle  shredded icocoanut  over  the  top  before  putting  in    oven  to 

brOWHJ(0'>l     ''Ji"      Uivrti     .>i'jir.-l   !(!nn    .-jco  ;        ,)l   i.i     !--,IJ  mi  *+tSU8i6  'WiaC;'!         mH 

, ,   . ,   r       Butter  Scotch  Pie 

One  cup  of  brown  sugar,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  two  eggs,  one  table- 
spoonful  of  flour.  Rub  sugar  abdl  66b1' it6geth6i',  'add  eggs,  a  lump  of 
buttepithe'sizeiof  a  wWnntj  thenadd  milk4ft8t,iand  oook  liaii  double  boiler. 
Enohghi  f6>rDne:pie'.»i.'ini    mj.  i>ti^';i!i»i  i.vi  ,if.i.!i  .  ^H-MrsjjHaael  Mason.c      •>      r- 

\\>i-t-'     (  Mil    I'liii  jlliui  •■>i^-l  \.f,i.:    .  .^■;. '.t?!*"  "■'  '-■'•  • '■    ''  '""    '  '"  '   '"    ■■■''■'■ 

Vincear  rit 

,'Tii<JHfi     (H      t.i|.'l        t!..     ■»,!), I       'M    .!**•!      M    :  •  i;  A'    ,/i:-'-':    !■:>■■     .    i.,i    ■     d-    i-     /       --K 

ii^P/T  |'J''(PiP*?^i,  iP'^fii^'^i^.i®'??,'^*''^.^  ^;"P,'' ^^^^f^'i®''',  <^!^®  ciupof  sugajr,  threBji, ,, 
eggs,  three, tableepppn,^uV  P^i^^"')  ^T,?  ^^^^PPP^i^Q},*  P^  y'^,^g=^.r  ,  and   three ^j.. 
teaspoonfuls  of  lempn,.ptir  all  together  and  cook  until    thick;   have   crusts 
baked  and  fill  this  in  using  the  whites  of  two  eggs  for  the  top.     Set  in  oven 
and  brown.  i"~l  -r.nf>rreci  — Sophia  Keesliog. 

lO      l(j'lfl(Mi«!H'.tlH.t;t      uno     MiV^-i.c/.    I  <Hi  '    H  -Olf  ■   IJ;    '  V- ,1   •l'(iM-._()'    l!        it'' 

,,  .      ,,         v-rcam  ric  ., 

XysfP  tablespoons  of  flour,  two  tablespoons  of  sugar,  one  pint  of  oream      , 
and  fla,i|)^.    ,!^ut,tl;i,e  flour  in  the  criist^  then  add,  a  small  .,pinob  of  salt,  then 
the  ^iig^j:  anc^pj'ea.m,,, stir, altogether,  ^rop  bits  pf  butter  fDver  the   top^^and ^  ,,i. 
bake.         i,,.^ii  i,/   nmy  —Anna  Jones,  Almira  Robbios,  ,  ^| 


81 


Vinegar  Pic 

One  cup  sweet  milk,  one  oup  water,  one  egg,  two  tablespoonfuls  sugar, 
two  tablespoonfuls  vinegnr,  one  tablespoon  butter,  two  tablespoonfuls  corn 
starch,  any  flavoring  desired.  Cook  before  putting  in  the  crust,  bake  crust 
and  let  cool,  beat  the  whites  of  two  ejjgs  and  one-half  cup  sugar,  put  on 
top  and  brown.     Mak68  two  pies.  — Mary  More,  Straughn,  Ind. 

Chocolate  Pic 

Four  tablespoonfuls  of  grated,  chocolate,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  corn 
starch,  two  cups  of  sugar,  two  eggs,  one  pint  of  water  (or  enough  to  make 
two  pies.)  '  Flavor  xvith  vanilla,  use  bitter  chocolate,  grate  and  disolve, 
then  add  sugar  and  corn  starch  and  yolks  of  eggs,  add  water  last,  use  boil- 
ing water.  Have  crust  baked  before  making  filling.  Beat  the  'whites  with 
one-half  cup  of  sugar  and  spread  on  top. 

— Mrs,  Idella  Goetz,  iDdianapoliB. 

Orange  Pic 

One  rounding  tablespobnful  of  corn  starch,  mixed  with  one  oup  of  cold 
water,  to  three  quarts  cup  of  boiling  water,  and  cook  three  minutes.  Add 
a  pinch  of  salt,  the  grated  rind  of  one  and  one-half  oranges,  the  juice  of 
three  oranges,  one  cup  of  sugar,  and  cool.  Beat  in  the  yolks  of  two  eggs 
and 'the  well  beaten  white  of  one  egg  Pour  into  the  already  baked  crust. 
Beat  the  remaining  white,  aidd  a  teaspoon  of  sugar  then  spread  over  the 
pie  and  brown.  "        '—Mrs.  Cecil  Pickering,  Wbittier,  Cal. 

Sweet  Potato  Pie 

Boil  01'  bake  sufficient  sweet  potatoes  to  make  a  pint  of  pulp,  when 
rubbed  through  a  colander;  add  a  pint  of  sweet  cream,  a  small  cup  of  sugar, 
a  pinch  of  salt/the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  a  teaspoon  of  lemon,  bake  in  a  shal- 
low pan  lined  with  a  rich  crust.  When  done  beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs 
with  powdered  sugar  for  the  top,  and  brown  it  in  the  oven. , 

,  '  — Mrs,.  Riley  Fleming. 


i'<-  l\     -'\iV     ■'»  : 


^^-=4      ^ 


82 


pickles  anb  Catsup 


Pear  Pickles 

Two  pints  ot  vinegar,  two  pints  of  sugar  one  pint  of  water,  put  ciu- 
namon  and  elove«  in  a  little  muslin  bag  and  remove  when  pears  are  cooked 
tender,  — Mrs.  Lert  Fadely. 

Cucumber  Pickles. 

Put  the  cucumber  in  strong  salt  water  and  leave  lay  for  two  or  three 
days,  or  until  the  brine  begins  to  bubble  up  to  the  top.  Remove  and 
drain.  Have  boiling  enough  vjnegar  tu  suit  taste,  also  add  mixed  pickle 
spices  and  pepper.  Drop  In  the  cucumbers  and  heat  altogether  untill 
the  pickles  are  hot  through.     Seal  at  once.         — Mrs.    Riley  Fleming. 

Chili  Sauce. 

Twenty  large  ripe  tomatoes,  six  good  sized  onions,  three  large  green 
peppers,  three  tablespoonfols  salt,  six  tablespoonfuls  brpwn  sugar,  three 
teaspoonfuls  ground  cinnamon,  two  small  teaspoonfuls  ginger,  one-half  tea- 
spoonful  ground  cloves,  six  cups  vinegar  Mash  the  tomatoes,  chop  or 
slice  the  onions  and  peppers,  mix  all  in  a  porcelain  kettle,  and  boil  till 
perfectly  soft,  and  when  cool  rub  through  a  colander,  and  cook  until  done. 
Put  in  bottles"  and  cork  tightly.  —Mrs   8.  P.  Ledgerwpod, 

Celery  Slaw 

One  half  gallon  chopped  cabbage  (salted),  one  teaspoon  celery  seed, 
three  hard  boiled  eggs  chopped  fine,  one-halt  jup  cream;  vinegar  aqd  sugar 
to  taste.  —Mrs.  Maggie  Painter. 

Higdon  or  Chow-Chow 

Two  gallons  green  tomatoes,  cut  flne,  two  gallons  cabbage,  salt  lightly 
and  drain  over  night,  add  two  pounds  sugar,  Ave  cents  worth  ground  cin- 
namon, live  cents  worth  celery  seed,  ten  cents  worth  yellow  mustard  seed, 
Ave  cents  worth  turmeric  ,  a  little  horse  radish,  a  few  sharp  peppers,  or  a 
little  oayeaae  pappQP,  four  onions  cut  flue,  cover  with  vinegar  and  ha.it 
thoroughly.     Some  may  like  less  spice. 

—Mrs   G.  K    hiirtman,  Hageratown,  Md. 


DICK  GOODWIN, 

TKe   One-Price   ClotKier, 

Ne^w  Castle,  Indiana. 


p 

Exclusive  Agent  for 


HOOSiEi^  KITCHEN  C4BIINET8 


SEF 

H.  H.  LOCKER 

For  STOVES,  RANGES,  HARNESS. 

A  Complete  Line  Always  in  Stock, 


New  Castle^  Indiana. 


WRIGHT  FURNITURE  CO.,  Inc. 

DER/lRX/nEINX  STORE 

Rup,  Carpets,  Graperies,  Foroitore,  Stoves,  China,  Glass, 

Lamps,  Etc. 

K.  of  p.  BuaSding  :  :  NEW  C4STLE,  BND. 


OWEN  A.  SWAIN 


Sanitary   Plumbing    and 

/     Sewering.      Steam     and 

Hot  Water  Heating.    Gas 

Fitting. 

Dealer  in  Gasoline  Engines,  and  Supplies. 
Oils.  Dry  Batteries  and  Electric  Light 
Fittings. 


S!iop,  Davis  Block. 


■i«xvovvW«X^ 


P.ione  f  24. 


I^IDDLETCIVN,  \m 


WOOL  DEALERS  and  MANUFACTURERS  of 

Woolen  gfoods. 


Highest  Price  paid  for  Wool. 


Middletown,  Ind. 


83 


Pickles  Cold 

One  gallon  vinegar,  three  cups  sugar;  let  it  come  to  a  boil,  set  away 
until  cold,  pour  over  pickles  that  have  been  previously  soaked  in  salt  water, 
put  in  jars;  take  ground  mustard  and  sew  between  while  cloth,  put  over 
pickles  and  tie  up  without  sealing.         — Sarah  Butcher,  Kokomo,  Ind. 

Chili  Sauce 

Twenty-four  ripe  tomatoes,  eight  onions,  six  green  peppers,  four  table- 
spoons salt,  eight  tablespoons  sugar,  four  tablespoons  cinnamon,  four  tea- 
spoons ginger,  eight  cups  vinegar.  Peppers  and  onions  chopped  fine,  put 
altogether  and  cook  three  hours.  — Mrs.  Chas.  J.  Roberts. 

Philadelphia  Relish 
To  two  quarts  chopped  cabbage  add  two  teaspoonfuls  of  white  mustard 
seed,  one  teaspoonful  celery  seed,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  half  a  cup  of 
sugar,  one  cup  vinegar;  mix  this  well,  add  half  cup  of  chopped  pimientoes, 
and  one  cup  of  sliced  stuffed  olives.  Dissolve  one  package  lemon  Jell  o, 
in  two  thirds  of  a  piut  of  boiling  water,  let  this  cool,  and  pour  over  this 
mixture.  — Norah  Griftis, 

Turnip  Chow-Chow 

Take  twelve  medium  sized  turnips  and  as  many  green  mustard  leaves, 
two  or  three  onions,  peel  and  slice  turnips  and  onions,  pick  and  wash  the 
mustard  leaves,  chop  fine,  or  run  it  all  through  the  food  chopper,  add  green 
or  ripe  peppers  and  a  little  salt;  put  in  glass  jars  and  pour  on  enough  good 
apple  vinegar  to  cover  (or  about  the  same  as  you  would  for  tomato  chow- 
chow),  seal  up;  will  be  ready  for  use  in  twenty-four  hours,  or  it  will  keep 
for  months,  — Mary  Brown. 

Mustard  Pickles 

Wash  pickles  and  put  in  cans;  pour  over  them  a  solution  of  one  gallon 
vinegar,  one  cup  of  salt,  one  cup  of  sugar  aud-half  cup  of  pulverized 
mustard.      Use  solution  cold,  — Miss  Lou  A  Rubush. 

Pickled  Beans 

Put  in  salt  water,  cook  till  done,  drain  them,  then  put  good  vinegar 
over  them,  put  horse-radish,  mustard  seed  and  pepper  in  them,  and  can. 
Will  keep  till  spring.  — Mrs.  John  Toppin. 


84 


Mixed  Pickles 
One  peck  of  green  tomatoes,  two  dozen  large  cucumbers,  one  head  of 
cabbage,  one  pint  of  hulled  beans,  one  quart  of  green  beans,  two  stalks  of 
celery,  one  pint  of  onions  (small  ones),  one  ounce  of  ground  mustard,  one- 
half  ounce  of  turmeric,  one-half  ounce  white  mustard  seed,  one  and  one- 
half  pounds  of  sugar.  Slice  tomatoes  and  cucumbers  and  soak  in  salt 
water  over  night,  salt  beans  and  cook.  Cut  cabbage  and  salt.  Add  it 
together  and  put  nearly  enough  vinegar  to  cover  it  and  cook  till  boiling 
heat  and  can  in  glass  cans.  — Margaret  Schlegel. 

Cucumber  Pickles 

Two  gallons  of  water,  add  one  quart  of  salt,  pour  over  pickles  and 
let  stand  three  days.  Pour  off  all  the  brine.  Boil  and  skim  and  pour  over 
the  pickles  boiling  hot,  Let  stand  three  days,  then  repeat  and  let  stand 
three  days.  Take  out  pickles  pour  over  them  boiling  water  in  which  alum 
the  size  of  an  egg,  has  been  disolved.  Let  stand  over  night,  then  wipe  dry 
and  pack  in  jars.  Boil  vinegar  and  spice  well,  add  one  pound  of  sugar, 
put  on  weight  aud  cover  tight      They  are  ready  for  use. 

— Lizzie  Mundell. 

Kentucky  Pickles 

One  gallon  of  cabbage  chopped  fine,  one  gallon  of  green  tomatoes 
chopped  fine.  One  pint  of  chopped  onions,  one  pint  of  chopped  mangoes, 
four  tablespoons  of  ground  mustard,  two  tablespoons  of  ground  ginger, 
one  tablespoon  of  ground  cinnamon,  one  tablespoon  celery  seed,  six  table- 
spoons salt,  two  pounds  of  brown  sugar,  one-half  gallon  of  vinegar.  Boil 
altogether  for  twenty  minutes  — Martha  Young, 

To  Keep  Pickles  without  Canning 

Wash  pickles  and  let  stand  in  strong  salt  water  forty-eight  hours.  To 
each  gallon  of  pickles  use  one  quart  of  cider  vinegar,  to  each  quart  of 
vinegar  one  pound  of  brown  sugar,  boil  one  hour  and  let  cool.  To  each 
gallon  of  vinegar  disolve  one  tablespoonful  of  salicylic  acid  in  cooled  vine- 
gar. Put  la5'er  of  pickles  in  jar,  then  add  layer  of  nasturtium  vines, 
leaves,  blossoms  and  all,  pieces  of  horse-radish  root  and  mixed  spices,  fill 
jar  in  this  manner  and  add  vinegar.  Cover  with  a  plate  and  tie  a  cloth 
over  top  of  jar.  Pickles  will  keep  from  one  season  to  next.  It  is  also 
fine  for  mixed  pickle,  — Mrs.  W,  D.  Elliott. 


85 


Cold  Chili  Sauce 

Oae-half  peck  of  ripe  tomatoes,  one  cup  of  onions  chopped  fine,  one 
cup  of  nasturtium  green  seed  cliopped  fine,  one  cup  of  grated  horse-radish, 
two  red  peppers,  two  bunches  of  celery,  one  cup  of  whole  white  mustard, 
one  tablespoon  of  salt,  one  tablespoon  black  pepper,  one  tablespoon  each  of 
cloves,  mace  and  cinnamon,  one  tablespoon  of  sugar,  and  one  quart  of 
vinegar.      Mix  flour  and  dry  mustard  and  sew  in  bag  to  fit  top  of  jar. 

— Sarah  Butcher. 

Cucumber  Pickles 

Cover  your  pickles  with  boiling  water  and  let  stand  four  hours,  then 
wipe  dry  and  covtr  with  the  following  mixture:  To  one  gallon  vinegar  add 
one-half  cup  salt,  one  teaspoonful  grated  alum,  one  cup  sugar,  and  one 
long  red  pepper.  Take  a  large  onion,  stick  full  of  cloves,  add  any  other 
spices  you  like.  Grain  spice,  celery  seed  or  mustard  seed  if  you  like,  put 
all  in  the  bottom  of  jar  and  lay  your  pickles  loosely  in,  pour  your  vinegar 
in  while  hot  and  cover  with  a  plate.  The  longer  they  stand  the  better,  but 
will  be  ready  for  use  in  about  two  weeks.  These  will  keep  without  canning 
indefinitely,  but  do  not  add  any  water  to  vinegar  or  they  will  mold. 

— Mrs.    ^]fl3e  Schlegel,  Terre  Haute,  Ind. 

An  Appetizer 

Three  quarts  of  ripe  cucumbers,  four  quarts  of  green  tomatoes,  three 
quarts  of  onions,  four  green  peppers,  one  quart  of  celery,  two  quarts  of 
vinegar,  two  quarts  of  brown  sugar,  one  cup  of  white  mustard  seed,  two 
tablespoons  whole  cloves,  four  tablespoons  salt,  four  tablespoons  of 
mustard,  one  tablespoon  turmeric,  one  tablespoon  of  horse-radish.  Cut 
cucumbers  in  small  pieces,  onions  and  tomatoes  in  thin  slices,  chop  celer}', 
and  peppers  and  cook  each  separately  until  partly  soft.  Put  all  ingredi- 
ents together  and  heat  thoroughly. 

— Mrs.  C    W.  Brewbaker,   Chambersburg,    Pa, 

Hot  Slaw 

One-half  cup  of  sour  cream,  one-half  cup  of  sugar,  two-thirds  cup  of 
vinegar,  one  tablespoon  of  flour,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  salt  to  taste, 
boil  until  thick  and  put  over  three  quarts  of  cabbage. 

— Mrs.  Jane  Riley,  Cadiz. 


S6 


Rag:on  Pickle 

Two  gallons  of  chopped  cabbage,  two  gallons  green  tomatoes,  twelve 
large  onions  chopped,  one  gallon  cider  vinegar,  one  pound  brown  sugar, 
one- half  ounce  turmeric  powder,  one-half  pound  white  mustard  seed,  one 
ounce  of  celery  seed,  one  gill  salt.  Boil  cabbage,  tomatoes,  onions,  salt 
vinegar  and  sugar  until  vegetables  are  tender,  then  add  spices,  put  in  stone 
jars  and  cover  tightly.  — Mrs.  Ora  Harlon. 

Chili  Sauce 

Eight  quarts  tomatoes,  three  cups  of  peppers,  two  cups  of  onions,  three 
cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  salt,  one  and  a  half  quarts  of  vinegar,  three  tea- 
spoonfuls  of  cloves,  same  quantity  of  cinnamon,  two  teaspoonfuls  each  of 
ginger  and  nutmeg;  boil  three  hours;  chop  tomatoes,  peppers  and  onions 
very  fine;  bottle  up  aud  seal.  — Mrs.  M.  F.  Dawson. 

Chili  Sauce 

One  peck  ripe  tomatoes,  one  peck  green  tomatoes,  three  heads  of  cab- 
bage, eight  large  onions,  six  green  peppers.  Chop  fine,  mix  together  and 
drain  over  night.  Add  one  quart  chopped  celery,  one  tab'espoonful  of 
black  pepper,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  mustard,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  celery 
seed,  one- half  cup  grated  horse-radish,  three  pounds  brown  sugar,  spice 
and  vinegar.  — Mrs.  Lucy  Myers. 

Cucumber  Pickles 

Waph  and  cover  cucumbers  (four  gallons)  with  salt  water  strong  enough 
to  bare  up  an  egg.  Let  stand  forty- eight  hours,  pour  ofl'  and  let  stand  in 
vinegar  watJir  twenty-four  hours;  take  out  aud  wipe  dry.  Piace  a  few 
nasturtium  leaves  in  the  bottom  of  jar,  then  two  or  three  layers  of  cucum- 
bers, then  a  layer  of  leaves  and  so  ou  till  jar  is  full.  Cover  with  following: 
To  or.e  gallon  vinegar  add  three  pounds  of  brown  sugar,  two  ounces  of 
mixed  spices;  let  set  on  back  part  of  stove  one  hour  (do  not  boil  as  this 
kills  vinegar);  cool  and  add  one  tablespoonful  of  salicylic  acid  dissolved  in 
cold  vinegar.  When  taking  pickles  out  of  jar  for  use  lift  out  witli  silver 
fork.  Never  put  pickles  back  in  jar  that  have  been  out  for  some  time  as 
this  causes  vinegar  to  mold.  — Mis.  A.  J.  Griffis 


87 


Ipubbino 


Suet  Pudding 

Two  cups  dry  bread  crumbs,  two  tablespoonfuls  suet,  one-half  cup 
molasses,  one  teaspoon  soda,  one  cup  flour,  one  cup  or  more  of  milk,  steam 
two  hours.  — Mrs.   E.  F.  Ledgerwood. 

Corn  Pudding 

Scrape  the  substance  out  of  twelve  ears  of  tender,  green  corn,  add 
yolks  and  whites  beaten  separately  of  four  eggs,  one  teaspoonful  of  sugar, 
one  teaspoonful  of  flour  mixed  in  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  a  small 
quantity  of  salt  and  pepper  and  one  pint  of  sweet  milk.  Bake  one-half 
hour.  — Mrs.  Emma  Strough 

Sweet  Pudding 

One  cup  Orleans  molasses,  one  cup  milk,  one  cup  suet,  chopped  fine, 
one  ;inJ  one  third  cup  flour,  one-half  teaspoonful  soda.  Mix  well,  salt  and 
S;jice  to  taste  and  steam  two  hours. 

Sauce — Whites  of  three  eggs,  well  beaten,  one  cup  sugar,  one-third 
cap  water,  Melt  and  boil  the  sugar  in  the  water,  and  stir  in  wliites  of 
tlie  egg-'.      Serve  at  once.  — Mrs.    J.  M    luman,  Odun,  Ind. 

Fruit  Pudding 

One  egg  well  beaten,  one  teispoonful  of  milk,  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
melted  butter,  one  half  cupful  of  sugar,  two  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder, 
e  lough  flour  to  make  a  fairly  stiOf  batter.  Put  into  a  baking  pan  a  pint  of 
sweetened  fruit,  peaches,  cherries,  plums  or  blackberries,  canned  or  fresh. 
The  m  )re  tart  the  fruit  the  better  Over  the  fruit  pour  the  batter  and  bake 
iu  a  moderate  oven.      Serve  with  any  kind  of  liquid  sauce. 

— Mrs.  Lizzie  Haines,  El  wood,  Ind, 

Pear  Preserve  Pudding 

Three  eggs,  one  cap  brown  sugar,  three  tablespoonfuls  sour  cream,  one 
cup  pear  preservt-s,  one  scant  teaspoon  soda,  one  teaspoon  baking  powder, 
two  cups  iflour. 

Sauce — One  cup  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  flour,  one  pint  water,  flavor 
with  vanilla.  —Ida  Young. 


88 


Tapioca  Pudding 

Soak  four  tablespoons  of  tapioca  in  a  little  water  two  or  three  hours, 
boil  one  quart  of  milk  and  pour  over  it  while  hot;  when  cool,  add  one  half 
teacup  of  sugar,  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  and  the  white  of  one  egg  well 
beaten,  flavor  with  lemon  and  bake.  When  done,  beat  the  whites  of  two 
eggs,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  pulverized  sugar,  when  iced  return  to  the  oven 
to  Drown.  — Mesdaroes  Mary  J.  Vest,  Ora  Harlowe,  Angle  Dillon. 

Cherry  Pudding 

Two  eggs,  one  cup  milk  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  one  tablespoon  melted 
butter,  one  and  one  half  cups  flour,  one  teaspoon  baking  powder,  pinch  uf 
salt.  Mix  in  order  given,  turn  into  greased  pan;  over  the  top  put  cherries, 
press  into  the  batter,  sprinkle  with  three  tablespoons  granulated  sugar. 
Bake  thirty  minutes  in  moderate  oven,  serve  hot  with  cream  and  sugar. 

— Liilie  Ledgerwood. 

Strawberry  Hard  Sauce 

Cream  one  cup  butter  and  two  cups  powdered  sugar,  add  the  beaten 
whites  of  two  eggs,  crush  two  cups  of  fresh  strawberries  and  add.  An 
excellent  sauce  for  cottage  pudding. 

— Mrs.  E.  S.  Lorenz,  Dayton,  Ohio. 

Orange  Pudding 

Peel  and  cut  five  sweet  oranges  into  thin  slices,  taking  out  the  seeds. 
Pour  over  them  a  cup  of  white  sugar;  let  a  pint  of  milk  get  boiling  hot  by 
setting  in  a  pot  of  boiling  water;  add  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  well  beaten. 
tme  tablespoonful  corn  starch  made  smooth  with  cold  milk,  stir  all  the  time 
until  thick,  then  pour  over  fruit.  Beat  whites,  sweeten,  spread  over  top 
and  set  in  oven  a  lew  minutes,  serve  cold.  Berries  or  peaches  may  be 
used  instead  of  oranges.  — Dicie  Halo. 

Fresh  Fruit  Pudding 

Put  one  pint  of  fresh  fruit,  raspberries,  blackberries  or  strawberries  in 
pan;  sweeten  and  sprinkle  with  flour;  cover  with  a  batter  made  of  one- 1  alf 
cup  sugar,  one  egg,  butter  size  of  walnut,  one-half  cup  milk,  one  teasjioon 
baking  powder,  one  teaspoon  vanilla,  and  flour  to  make  stiff  batter.  Seive 
with  cream.  — Mrs.    E.  M.  Boston. 


89 


Apple  Muffins 

Sift  together  two  cups  flour  and  two  teaspoons  baking  powder,  add  one- 
half  teaspoon  salt;  melt  one-fourth  cup  butter,  stir  into  the  butt«r  one-half 
cup  sugar;  add  the  yolk  of  one  egg  and  one  cup  milk,  beat  the  white  of  the 
egg  stiff;  have  ready  one  cup  skinned  and  sliced  apples  floured  with  one 
tablespoon  flour;  have  gem  pans  hot  and  grease  by  putting  butter  around 
the  top  and  letting  it  run  down;  put  butter  mixture  to  the  flour  mixture; 
beat  do  not  stir,  add  white  of  the  egg;  lastly  add  the  apples  and  bake  in 
a  rather  warm  oven  twenty-five  or  thirty  minutes. 

— Mrs.  L.  H.  Leitzell,  Scottdale,  Pa. 

Sweet  DumpIing^s 

Take  as  much  good  yeast  as  would  make  a  sufficient  quantity  of  light 
dough  as  required  for  an  ordinary  famil}',  adding  two  eggs,  one  large  table- 
spoonful  good  fresh  lard,  a  little  salt,  mix  well;  or  take  part  of  your  light 
bread  dough  instead  of  the  yeast;  mixing  in  the  egg  and  lard  let  stand  until 
light,  then  mould  out  in  common  sized  biscuits,  and  lay  on  a  cloth  that  is 
well  floured,  to  prevent  from  sticking  to  cloth;  when  light,  boil  in  thin 
syrup,  1  use  maple  syrup  if  1  have  it,  if  not  1  use  sugar  and  water.  Boil 
fifteen  or  twenty  minutes  until  syrup  gets  real  thick,  do  not  crowd  them  too 
much  as  they  are  liable  to  fall.  Use  an  iron  cook  pot  and  put  in  about 
five  dumplings  at  a  time,  care  should  bo  taken  or  they  will  burn.  The  next 
batch  put  more  syrup  with  a  little  water,  cook  as  before. 

— Mrs.  William  A.  Shoemaker,  Daleville,  Ind. 

Black  Pudding 

One  cup  Orleans  molassas,  two  eggs,  one-half  cup  hot  water,  one  tea- 
s[)ooiiful  t)t  soda,  one  aa  I  one-half  cups  of  flour.  Steam  one  hour.  For 
sauce — One  cup  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  butter,  one  egg. 

— Mrs.  D.  W.  Zartman. 
Apple  Fritters 

Two  cup.s  of  sour  milk,  three  eggs,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  flour 
e  lough  to  make  siitf  batter,  pare  and  cut  apples  into  pieces  about  the  size 
of  corn  kernels  There  should  be  about  a  quart  of  apples  when  ready. 
Drop  off  a  spoon  into  hot  grease  and  cook  same  as  doughnuts.  Serve  hot 
with  sugar  syrup,  — Mrs.  0.  V.  Nichals. 


90 


Peach  Roll 

Make  a  good  baking  powder  dough,  roll  thin,  spread  fruit  on,  putting 
thin  slices  of  butter  and  fruit,  roll  crust  up,  place  in  pan  five  or  six  inches 
deep.  Add  one  cup  of  sugar  and  a  small  one-half  cup  of  butter.  Al- 
most cover  roll  with  hot  water.  Bake  forty-five  minutes  One  cup  of 
flour  makes  a  nice  roll.  Either  fresh  or  canned  fruit  ci  n  be  used.  This 
is  delicious  when  warm.  —Mrs.  F.  E.  Rigg« 

Apple  Dumplings 

Apple  dumplings  and  sauce — Two  cups  flour,  two  teaspoons  basing 
powder,  one  teaspoon  lard,  one  teaspoon  salt  and  milk  to  make  a  soft 
(i()iii;h,  divide  into  small  pieces  and  roll  into  rounds  large  enough  to  cover 
half  an  nppii-;  have  the  apples  peeled,  cut  into  halves  and  cored;  place  half 
an  apple  in  each  round,  put  in  a  teaspoon  of  sugar,  fold  dough  around 
m('|)!p.  place  in  lettered  pan  and  pour  over  th?m  one  cup  of  sweetened 
water  and  bake;  turn  the  fire  on  full  wlien  they  are  first  put  in  the  oven  and 
when  hot  rediicn  tho  fluue  and  cook  slowly;  they  will  require  about  forty- 
five  minutes  to  bake  8auce — One  lialf  cup  butter,  (^ue  cup  sugar,  two 
tablespoons  corn  starch,  mixed  until  smooth,  add  juice  of  one  lemon,  then 
add  two  cups  of  boiling  water  and  cook  until  about  the  thickness  of  cream. 

— Selected. 

Rice  Pudding 

One  pint  of  rice  cooked  and  seasoned  as  for  table,  one  pound  of  raisins 
cooked  and  sweetened,  one  grated  lemon,  yolks  of  four  eggs;  cook  until 
eggs  are  done;  beat  the  whites  and  sweeten,  put  on  top  and  brown 

— Hannah  Peckinpaugh 

Brown   Betty 

Take  one  cup  bread  crumbs,  two  cups  sour  chopped  apples,  one-linlf 
C'jp  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  cinnamon,  two  tablespoor.fuls  butter,  cut  into 
small  bits.  Butter  a  deep  dish  and  put  a  layer  of  chopped  apples  at  tiie 
bottom,  sprinkle  with  sugar,  a  few  bits  of  butter  and  cinnamon,  cover  with 
bread  crumbs,  then  more  apple,  proceed  in  this  way  until  the  dish  is  full, 
having  a  layer  of  crumbs  on  top  Cover  closely  and  steam  three  quarters 
of  an  liour  in  a  moderate  oven,  then  uncover  and  brown  quickly.  Eat 
warm  with  su^ar  and  cream  or  brown  sauce.  — 011a  Davis. 


91 


Fruit  Roll 

Make  a  soft,  rich  biscuit  dough,  using  either  baking  powder  or  soda, 
spread  with  fruit  or  berries,  roll  up  and  bake  forty -five  minutes.  Serve 
with  sauce.  Sauce — One  quart  of  water,  one  pint  of  sugar,  one  heaping 
teaspoon  of  flour,  one  heaping  tablespoon  of  butter,  boil  and  when  done 
add  flavoring  to  suit  taste.  — Mrs.  Lucretia  Fadely. 

Cream  Pudding 

Scald  one  pint  of  milk  and  add  one-half  cup  of  shredded  cocoanat. 
Beat  together  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  three-fourths  cup  of  sugar,  two  and 
one-half  tablespoons  of  flour,  one-fourth  cup  of  milk  and  stir  slowly  into 
boiling  milk.  Beat  whites  of  eggs  with  one  teaspoon  of  sugar,  add  one- 
half  teaspoon  vanilla,  put  in  pudding  pans  and  pour  filling  mixture  over. 
Cover  top  with  cocoanut  and  brown  in  oven.  — Mae  Fleming. 

Orange  Sauce 

Three  pounds  of  currants,  two  pounds  of  raisins,  four  pounds  of  sugar, 
four  oranges.  Stew  raisins  in  very  little  water;  grate  the  yellow  rind  of 
oranges,  being  careful  not  to  use  any  of  the  white,  then  peel  oranges  and 
cut  fine;  stew  currants  and  sugar  till  latter  is  dissolved,  then  add  raisins 
and  oranges,  and  cook  about  twenty  minutes.  Cranberries  or  cherries  may 
be  used  in  place  of  currants.      Put  in  dishes  same  as  jelly. 

— Henrietta  Ransburg. 

Cottage  Puddin? 

One  cnp  sugar,  one  half  cup  sweet  milk,  one  tablespoonful  butter, 
two  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  one  and  one  half  cups  flour.  Bake  one- 
half  hour  and  serve  warm  with  sauce.  Sauce — One  cup  sugar,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  flour,  mix,  then  add  one  pint  of  boiling  water,  one  tablespoon  of 
buiter,  flavor  with  nutmeg;  boil  for  a  few  miuutes. 

— Mrs,  Lute  Shively,    Callie  Showalter. 

Persimmon  Pudding 

One  quart  persimmons,  one  quart  of  milk,  three  eggs,  two-thirds  cup 
sugar,  three  pints  flour,  two  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  one-half  cup  of 
butter,  cinnamon  and  spice.     Bake  one  hour.  — Eulalia  D.  Boyd, 


92 


Dutch  Peach  Tart 

One  egg,  one-half  cup  sugar,  butter  size  of  walnut,  one  cup  sweet 
milk,  one  teaspoon  baking  powder  and  flour  to  make  batter  as  for  cake. 
Pour  batter  into  buttered  baking  dish  and  stick  full  of  peaches  halved, 
(either  fresh  or  canned  fruit  may  be  used.)  Sprinkle  thickly  with  granu- 
lated sugar  and  bake  in  moderate  oven  until  nicely  browned.  Serve  with 
milk  or  fruit  juice.  — Mrs  C.  W.  Brewbaker,  Chambersbury,  Pa. 

Steam  Pudding 

One  cup  of  Orleans  molasses,  one  cup  chopped  raisms  or  currants,  one 
cup  warm  water,  yolks  of  two  eggs,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  two  cups  of 
flour,  steam  two  or  three  hours. 

Sauce — One  cup  sugar,  oue  of  water,  a  little  butter,  boil  a  little  and 
flavor  with  vanilla.  —Olive  Mills. 

Prune  Pudding 

Soak  one  and  one  half  pints  of  old  bread  and  dry  cake  in  sweet  milk 
until  soft.  Add  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  well  beaten,  two  heaping  table- 
spoonfuls  of  sugar,  one  cupful  of  seeded  prunes  that  have  been  well  cooked, 
orange  or  lemon  flavoring;  bake  thirty  minutes.  When  done  cover  with  a 
frosting  made  from  the  whites  of  two  eggs  and  white  sugar.  Serve  cold 
with  cream.  — Mrs.  Laura  James,  Pendleton,  Ind. 

Banquet  Pudding 

Two  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  grated  apple  (sour),  white  of  one  egg, 
one  cup  sugar,  one  teaspoon  of  flavoring.  Beat  all  together  one-half  hour 
or  longer.     This  is  enough  to  serve  eight  persons. 

Sauce — Two-thirds  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  milk,  yolk  of  one  egg. 
Cook  in  double  boiler  until  it  creams.  — Mrs.  Richard  Gossett. 

Snow  Pudding 

One  half  box  of  gelatine  dissolve  in  one  pint  of  boiling  water,  when 
nearly  cool,  add  one  cup  of  sugar  and  juice  of  one  lemon,  strain,  add 
whites  of  three  eggs,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  beat  all  thoroughly  and  quick 
and  pour  into  a  mold,  serve  cold  with  soft  custard  made  of  the  yolks  of 
three  eggp,  two  teaspoonfuls  flour  stirred  in  one  pint  of  boiling  milk  and 
sweeten  to  taste.     Flavor  with  lemon.  — Bertha  Myers. 


93 


Salab  anb  Salab  Bteeeing 


Celery  Salad 

One  cup  apples,  cut  in  small  oubos,  one  cup  celery,  cut  tine,  ane-half 
cup  English  walnuts.  Serve  on  lettuce  with  salad  dressing;  garnish  with 
half  walnuts,  — Mrs.  H.  F.  Shupe,  Dayton,  0. 

Tomato  Salad 

Seven  ripe  tomatoes  cut  fine,  four  stalks  of  celery,  one  large  onion 
chopped  with  them,  one-half  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  vinegar,  pepper  and  a 
little  salt  to  tasie,  — Caroline  Sanders. 

Salad  Dressing 

Yolks  of  eight  eggs,  one  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  sugar,  one  tablespoon 
gait,  one-half  teaspoon  pepper,  a  pinch  of  cayenne  pepper,  one  pint  of 
vinegar,   one-half  cup  of  cream.  — Sarah  Trout. 

Grape  Salad 

Seed  a  pound  of  malaga  grapes,  then  fill  them  with  hazel  nuts,  arrange 
artistically  on  the  leaves  of  head  lettuce,  pour  over  a  dressing  made  of  four 
parts  olive  oil  to  one  part  vinegar,  seasoned  with  salt  and  paprika. 

— Mrs.  E.  S.  Lorenz,  Dayton,  0. 

Corn  Salad 

One  dozen  ears  of  sweet  corn,  two  small  heads  of  cabbage,  three  red 
mangoes,  four  large  onions,  two  cupp  of  sugar,  one-ihird  cup  ground 
mustard,  one  tablespoonful  of  turmeric,  one-half  gallon  vinegar,  salt  to 
taste.     Boil  together  thirty  minutes,  can  while  hot, 

— Mrs.  Mary  Waldo. 

Salad 

Boil  five  potatoes  and  when  cold  peel  and  chop  fine  with  half  a  head 
of  cabbage,  two  hard  boiled  eggs,  two  or  three  onions,  salt  to  taste,  add 
celery  seed  and  mustard  seed,  half  teaspoon  of  each. 

Dressing — One-half  cup  of  good  vinegar,  one  egg  beaten,  one- half  cup 
of  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  of  flour,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  cook  and 
when  cool  pour  over  salad.  — Mrs.  C.  C.  Druley. 


94 


Fruit  Salad 

Two  oranges,  six  bananas,  one-half  can  of  apricots,  one  can  of  pine 
apple  chopped  fine,  one  cup  of  English  walnuts  rolled  fine,  one  box  shredded 
cocoanut.     Mix  well  together  and  sweeten  to  suit  taste. 

—Mary  E.  Ellison. 

Tomato  Salad 

Take  one  dozen  ripe  tomatoes,  one  head  of  cabbage,  one  bunch  of 
celery,  one-half  dozen  onions;  chop  all  togetuer  fine,  let  stand  in  salt  for  a 
little  while,  then  drain.  Take  one  cup  vinegar,  one  cup  sugar,  one  table- 
spoon of  celery  seed,  a  little  pepper,  mix  all  together  and  pour  over  con- 
tents. — Claudia  Frye. 

Bean  Salad 

One  pint  of  butter  beans  after  cooked,  three  cucumbers  cut  fine,  three 
stalks  of  celery,  two  hard  boiled  eggs  cut  fine,  one  cup  of  peanuts  cut  up 
and  added  makes  it  fine. 

Dressing — Two-thirds  cup  sugar,  two-thirds  cup  weak  vinegar,  one 
tablespoonful  butter,  one  level  teaspoon  salt,  one  level  teaspoon  mustard, 
one  level  teaspoon  flour,  pepper  to  taste.  Stir  flour  in  melted  butter,  then 
add  the  remainder  of  dressing  and  cook,  and  while  hot  add  one- half  cup  of 
thick  cream  and  pour  over  salad. 

— Mrs.  Daisy  C.  Misener,   Mechanicsburg,  Ind. 

Spring  Vegetable  Salad 

After  washing  head  lettuce  carefully,  place  as  many  leaves  as  desired 
in  individual  dishes  or  on  small  plates.  Over  each  plate  of  lettuce  scatter 
a  dozen  or  more  thin  slices  of  cucumber,  then  one  or  two  small  crisp  red 
radishes  sliced  thin,  then  add  nuts  finely  chopped  and.  if  procurable,  a  few 
malaga  grapes,  cut  and  seeds  removed.  Hard  boiled  eggs  sliced  or  quarter- 
ed may  be  added  Sprinkle  with  salt  and  paprika  then  cover  with  the 
following  dressing:  For  each  plate  use  one  teaspoon  white  sugar,  one  tea- 
spoon olive  ')il,  one  tablespoon  vinegar,  one  tablespoon  Heinz  mustard 
dressing.  Beat  oil  and  sugar  to  a  cream,  then  add  vinegar  stirring  con- 
stantly while  adding  the  vinegar  car.":fully  The  mustard  dressing  may  be 
mixed  with  this  or  poured  on  the  salad  afti  r  the  oil  and  vinegar  mixture 
has  been  poured  over.  — Mrs.  L.  E.  Custer. 


95 


Dressing  for  Potato  Salad 

Beat  two  egg3  till  light,  add  one  cup  vinegar,  one  teaspoon  salt,  one  of 
butter,  one  of  bottled  must.xrd,  one-half  teaspoon  of  black  pepper;  cook  ail 
together,  stirring  until  well  cooked.  — Mrs.  J.  T.  Hobson. 

Salad  Dressing 

Yolks  of  four  eggs,  one  teaspoon  each  of  salt,  dry  mustard  and  pepper, 
one-third  cup  of  cream,  one  cup  vinegar,  one-fourth  cup  sugar,  one-ttiird 
cup  butter.  — Mrs.  Effle  Steele. 

Potato  Salad 

Boil  six  or  seven  medium  sized  potatoes  until  tender.  When  potatoes 
are  nearly  cold  remove  peeling  and  cut  into  small  cubes,  sprinkle  over  a 
teaspoon  of  salt,  then  add  two  hard  boiled  eggs,  two  small  onions  and  three 
or  four  stalks  of  celery,  all  chopped  fine.  For  the  dressing  use  three  eggs, 
one-half  pint  of  vinegar,  one-half  pint  of  sour  cream,  half  pint  of  sugar 
and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Cook  until  it  thickens;  do  not  use  until  nearly  cold. 
The  dressing  can  be  kept  for  weeks  in  a  sealed  can  or  glass. 

— Mrs.   Imo  Fleming. 

Mayonnaise  Dressing 

Yolks  of  two  eggs,  butter  size  of  a  walnut,  heaping  teaspoon  flour, 
one-half  teaspoon  salt,  one-halt  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  vinegar,  touch  of 
mustard.     Cook  in  double  boiler.  — Ethel  Spore  George. 

Apple  Salad 
Two  cups  chopped  apples  (tart),  one  cup  chopped  celery,  one  cup 
chopped  nuts,  boil  one  half  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  one  half  cup 
vinegar,  one  teaspoonful  salt,  then  add  three  well  beaten  eggs  and  three 
teaspoonfuls  of  flour,  cook  well,  when  cold  add  one  pint  of  whipped  cream 
then  pour  over  the  api)les  and  celery,  (white  grapes  make  a  pretty  garnish). 

—Mrs.  Seth  Mills. 

Waldorf  Salad 

One  cup  apples  cut  in  cubes,  one  cup  celery,  one-half  cup  English 
walnuts;  serve  on  lettuce  with  salad  dressing,  garnish  with  half    walnuts. 

— Mattie  E.  Craven. 


96 


Salad  Dressing 

Yolks  of  eight  eggs  beaten  till  light  and  add  one  half  cup  of  sugar,  a 
little  pepper,  salt  to  taste,  one-half  cup  of  cream,  a  little  mustard,  beat 
these  ingredients  together.  Boil  one  pint  of  vinegar  with  one- half  cup  of 
good  fresh  butter  and  stir  into  the  egga  boiling  hot. 

— Bess  Fleming. 

Chicken  Salad 

One  quart  of  chopped  chicken,  removing  all  fat,  gristle  and  skin,  one 
pint  of  canned  salmon,  one  pint  of  chopped  cabbage,  one  pint  of  chopped 
celery,  four  hard  boiled  eggs,  one  pint  good  vinegar,  two  spoons  of  sugar, 
one  half  cup  of  melted  butter  or  fresh  olive  oil,  one-half  spoon  of  pepper,  a. 
heaping  spoonful  of  prepared  mustard  and  salt  to  taste.  Tiny  hearts  cut 
from  slice  beets  makes  a  pretty  garnish  for  this. 

—Mrs.  Seth  Mills. 

Oyster  Salad 

Drain  liquor  from  one  can  oysters,  cut  in  small  dice  together  with  four 
pickles,  two  hard  boiled  egj^s,  one-half  cup  celery,  season  with  celery  salt, 
pepper  and  mustard,  pour  mayonnaise  dressing  over  all. 

— Susan  Gossett. 

Salad  Dressing 

One- half  tablespoon  salt,  one  teaspoon  mustard,  one  aid  one  half 
tablespoons  sugar,  one  tablespoon  flour,  pinch  cayenne.  Sift  dry  ingredients 
and  add  gradually  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  slightly  beaten  which  has  been 
mixed  with  three  fourths  cup  milk,  add  one  fourth  cup  vinegar,  cook  in 
double  boiler  until  thick;  remove  from  flre,  add  butter  size  of  .in  egg  and 
beat  thorougbly  with  egg  beuter;  when  used,  thin  with  cream. 

—  Mrs.  A.  R,  Arford,  Benton  Hurbur,  Midi. 

Cream  Salad  Dressing 

Mix  together  thoroughly,  one-half  tublespoouful  of  salt,  one  half 
tablespoonful  of  mustard,  two  and  one. half  tablespoonfuls  pugar,  one 
tablespoonful  of  flour,  then  add  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  two  and  ooehalf 
tablespoonfuls  of  melted  butler,  tbree-fuurths  of  a  cup  of  milk  or  cream, 
add  slowly  one-fourth  cup  vinegar,  cook  uutil  it  thickens,  stirring  con- 
stantly. — Mattie  K   Craven. 


97 


Beet  Salad 

One  quart  beets  cooked  and  chopped  fine,  one  quart  cabbage  chopped 
very  fine,  one  pint  vinegar,  one-half  cup  horse-radish  grated,  one  table- 
spoon salt,  one  and  one- half  cups  sugar,  one-half  teaspoon  pepper.  Mix 
all  together,  let  just  come  to  boil,  and  can.  Lizzie  Sheets, 

Nut  Salad 

One  pound  English  walnutp,  one  bunch  celery,  two  large  cucumbers 
(almost  ripe),  peel  and  take  seeds  out,  chop  altogether,  let  stand  a  little 
while,  then  press  all  the  water  out,  use  a  mayonnaise  dressing;  put  on  cold. 
Serve  in  ripe  tomato  cups  on  individual  plates. 

—Mrs.  Joseph  Shafler. 

Salad  Course 

Remove  the  shells  from  as  many  hard  boiled  eggs  as  there  are  persons 
to  be  served.  Beginning  at  the  small  end  of  etich  egg,  cut  the  whites 
lengthwise  into  one-fifth  almost  to  base,  taking  care  to  leave  the  whole  yolk, 
turn  back  the  "petals"  thus  formed,  so  as  to  make  each  egg  simulate  a 
pond  lilly,  with  a  small  brush  dipped  in  beet  juice,  color  the  petals  a  pale 
pinK.  Roughen  the  surface  of  the  yolk  with  a  fork,  serve  these  on  a  leaf 
of  lettuce  to  each  place;  serve  with  mayonnaise  or  French  dressing  and 
cUei:se.  — Mrs.  Beth  Mills. 

Stuffed  Egg  Salad 

Boil  eggs  hard,  throwing  them  into  cold  water  as  soon  as  they  come 
from  the  fire;  remove  the  shells  and  cut  the  eggs  in  two  crosswise;  remove 
the  yolks,  and  work  them  to  a  paste  with  melted  butter,  salt,  pepper  and  a 
little  cold  ham  chopped  very  fine  Return  the  yolks  to  the  halved  whites, 
pui  the  two  sides  together  and  lay  them  among  lettuce  leaves;  serve  as  a 
salud  with  the  following  dressing 

Boiled  dressing— Bring  to  a  boil  one  cupful  of  rich  milk,  and  one  cup- 
ful of  cream,  and  stir  into  this  two  tablespoonfuls  of  corn  starch  which 
ims  been  rubbed  to  a  paste  with  two  tablespooniuls  of  butter.  Oook  until 
it  thickens,  take  from  the  fire,  and  beat  very  hard  with  an  egg  beater.  Set 
it  aside  to  cool;  when  perfeeMy  cold,  add  to  it  two  tablespoonfuls  of  vine- 
gar, salt,  pepper  and  mustard  to  taste.  A  very  delicious  addition  to  this 
is  a  little  whipped  cream,  but  if  this  is  to  be  used,  the  quantity  of  vinegar 
must  be  increased  to  three  tablespoonfuls.  —Adda  I,  Lewis. 


98 


Potato  Salad 
One  quart  of  cold  boiled  potatoes,  cut  in  small  cubes;  one  and  one-half 
cups  cabbage,  three  stalks  celery,  two  onions,  chopped  fine  and  mixed  with 
the  potatoes,  add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  cover  with  the  following  dress- 
ing: Two  eggs  well  beaten,  one-half  cup  sour  cream,  one-half  cup  vinegar, 
one-fourth  cup  sugar,  one  teaspoonful  ground  mustard,  boil  until  thick. 

— Mrs.  Lute  Shirely. 

Salmon  Salad 

Put  salmon  in  a  dish,  pick  apart,  add  chopped  celery,  and  two  hard 
boiled  eggs  chopped      Then  pour  over  them  a  mayonnaise  dressing. 

Mayonnaise  dressing — One  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one-half  teaspoon- 
ful of  mustard,  one-half  cup  of  vinegar,  one  half  cup  of  water  (cold),  one 
teaspoonful  of  sugar,  one  egg  or  yolks  of  two,  one  tablespoonful  flour,  beat 
the  egg,  add  flour,  then  thin  with  water.  Boil  and  when  cool  pour  over 
salmon.  — Selected. 

Cabbage  Salad 

Take  one  small  head  of  cabbage  and  cut  fine,  add  one  teaspoon  of  salt, 
pepper  to  taste,  roll  and  add  twelve  crackers. 

Dressing — One-half  cup  of  sugar  and  one  egg  beaten  together,  then 
add  one-half  cup  of  rich,  sweet  cream,  a  small  lump  of  butter  and  one-half 
cup  of  strong  vinegar,  stir  well  and  let  boil  two  or  three  minutes.  Pour 
over  cabbage  while  hot.  — Mrs.  Eliza  Harry. 

Potato  Salad 

Six  or  eight  boiled  potatoes  minced,  one  half  cup  Qnel}'^  chopped  celery, 
one-half  cup  chopped  nuts,  six  hard  boiled  eggs,  minced.  Mix  with  the 
salad  dressing  — :Mrs.  Effie  Steele,  New  Castle,  Ind. 

Autumn  Salad 

One  cup  English  walnuts,  chopped  fine,  one  cup  apples,  chopped  fine, 
four  stalks  celery,  chopped  fine. 

Dressing — One  egg,  pinch  of  salt  and  pepper,  one  teaspoon  each  of 
flour  and  mustard,  two  teaspoons  sugar,  two  tablespoons  butter,  one  cup 
vinegar;  boil  all  together,  remove  from  fire  and  add  slowly  one- half  cup 
cream.     Pour  over  salad  and  serve  on  lettuce  leaves. 

— Mrs.  Lelia  Brown,  Whittier,  Cal. 


99 


Dressing  for  Salad 

Four  eggs  well  beaten,  one-half  cup  sugar,  one-half  teaspoon  mustard, 
one-half  teaspoon  salt,  one  teaspoon  butter,  one  cup  vinegar.  Cook  in 
double  boiler,,  when  cool  add  two  tablespoons  of  sweet  cream. 

— Alice  Kerlin. 


TKe  Best  Recipe 

For  Corns,  Bunions 
and  Ingrowing  Toe  Nails, 

is  to  buy  your  foot-wear  from 

JOE  FADELY  CgL  SON, 

Anderson,  Ind. 


100 


Soup 


Soup  stock  is  made  from  cheap,  tough  cuts.  The  meat  should  be  cut 
1q  small  pieces  and  soaked  in  cold  water  for  half  an  hour  to  draw  out  the 
juices.  Bone  is  added  for  the  sake  of  the  gelatine  which  it  contains,  and 
which  will  give  body  to  the  soup.  A  good  proportion  is  one  pound  each 
of  meat  and  bone  to  each  quart  of  water.  Use  a  kettle  with  a  very  tight 
cover  and  simmer  slowly  for  a  number  of  hours.  Stock  is  better  when 
made  the  day  before  it  is  to  be   used.  — Selected. 

Creamed  Tomato  Soup 

Take  new  or  canned  tomatoes  and  cook  slowly  for  au  hour,  season  with 
butter,  salt  and  pepper.  When  ready  to  serve  add  a  little  thickening  made 
of  cream  and  flour.     Serve  hot  with  crackers.  Imo  Fleming. 

Cream  of  Corn  Soup 

One  pint  of  grated  corn,  one  quart  of  boiling  water,  or  better,  veal 
stock,  one  pint  of  hot  milk,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter,  two  even  table- 
spoonfuls  of  flour,  yolks  of  two  eggs,  salt  and  pepper.  Put  cobs  from. corn 
you  have  prepared  in  the  boiling  water  or  stock  and  let  boil  slowly  one- 
half  hour,  remove  them  and  put  in  corn  and  boil  till  very  soft  (twenty 
minutes),  season  and  let  simmer  while  you  rub  butter  and  flour  together, 
add  these  to  soup  and  stir  constantly  till  it  thickens,  add  boiling  milk,  cook 
twenty  minutes,  add  beaten  yolks  and  serve  immediately. 

— Selected. 

Noodle  Soup 

Use  three  eggs,  well  beaten,  a  lump  of  butter,  size  of  walnut,  a  spoon 
of  water,  flour  to  make  stiff  dough;  roll  thin  and  cut  very  fine;  have  a  well 
seasoned  broth  of  chicken  or  beef,  and  cook  slowly  fifteen  minutes. 

»  — Alice  Kerlin. 


101 


Oyster  Soup 

One  pint  of  oysters,  one  quart  of  milk,  two  tablespoonfuis  of  butter, 
two  tablespoonfuis  of  flour,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  a  little  onion  or  mace 
may  be  cooked  in  the  milk  if  liked.  Put  milk  in  a  double  boiler  while  pre- 
paring oysters,  take  each  oyster  in  the  fingers  to  make  sure  that  no  pieces 
of  shell  adhere  to  it,  after  having  poured  one  cupful  of  cold  water  over 
them,  strain  and  boil  liquor,  skimming  as  it  boils;  when  clear,  add  to  milk 
which  has  been  thickened  with  the  butter  and  flour  rubbed  together,  season, 
add  oysters  and  cook  till  edges  curl.     Serve  at  once.  — Selected. 

Vegetable  Soup 

One  shin  bone,  one  knuckle  beef,  set  to  cook  at  10  a.  m.  with  three 
quarts  of  cold  water,  let  simmer  until  noon,  skin  and  cut  three  quarts  of 
tomatoes,  remove  bone  and  knuckle  to  another  kettle,  set  on  the  back  of 
the  stove,  cover  with  cold  water  and  let  simmer;  add  tomatoes  and  onion, 
cut  thin,  at  noon,  boil  steadily,  but  not  hard;  at  2  p.  m.  add  one  cupful  of 
string  beans,  cut  or  Lima  beans,  or  mixed,  one  small  turnip  cut  in  dice, 
one  carrot  scraped  and  cut  in  half,  one  dozen  ears  of  corn  cut  from  cobs, 
and  cobs  scraped,  one-fourth  of  medium-sized  head  of  cabbage,  cut  flue, 
cover  scraped  cobs  with  cold  water  and  let  simmer  for  one-half  hour,  scrape 
cobs  and  add  with  water  to  stock.  An  hour  before  serving,  add  two  small 
potatoes  cut  in  dice,  one  pinch  of  mace,  and  broth  of  meat  and  parsley  cut 
fine;  when  meat  is  flrst  taken  out,  season  broth,  and  just  before  serving, 
season  again,  add  fresh  parsley  and  one  tablespoon ful  of  Worcester  sauce; 
one  bunch  of  pot  herbs  greatly  improves.  — Selected. 

Tomato  Soup 

One  and  ouo-half  pints  water,  one  pint  tomatoes,  one  pint  rich  milk  or 
bettor  sweet  cream;  butter,  salt,  pepper  and  parsley  to  season,  one  teaspoon 
soda.  Put  soda  into  the  tomatoes  before  adding  the  milk  or  cream  hot. 
The  8oda  keeps  it  from  curdling;  serve  at  once;  if  re-heated  it  may   curdle. 

— Mrs.  G.   H.  Hartman,  Hagerstown,  Md. 

Beef  Soup 

Take  a  double  handful  of  finely  chopped  cabbage  and  cook  in  beef 
broth  until  tender,  then  thicken  with  sweet  cream. 

— Mrs,  Lert  Fadely. 


102 


Salsify  or  Vegetable  Oyster  Soup 

Wash,  scrape  and  slice  thin  enough  salsify  roots  to  make  one  pint; 
place  in  stew  pan  and  cover  with  boiling  water;  salt  to  taste  and  cook  until 
tender,  then  add  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  let  come  to  a  boil  and  serve  hot. 
When  served  with  crackers  makes  a  good  substitute  for  oyster  soup. 

— Mrs.  Laura  James. 

Celery  Soup 

One  head  of  celery,  one  pint  of  water,  one  pint  of  milk,  one  table- 
spoonful  of  chopped  onion,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  flour,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one-half  saltspoonful  of  pepper. 
Wash  and  scrape  the  celery,  cut  into  one-half  inch  pieces,  put  with  the 
onion  into  the  pint  of  water,  cook  till  celery  is  soft  (forty-five  minutes), 
mash  in  water  in  which  it  was  boiled,  rub  through  a  strainer,  add  milk  to 
celery  water,  let  boil,  thicken  with  butter  and  flour  rubbed  together,  season 
and  cook  five  minutes.  — Selected. 

Brown  Soup  Stock 

Four  pounds  of  shin  beef,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  peppercorns,  one- 
half  bay  leaf,  three  sprigs  of  thyme,  one  sprig  of  marjoram,  three  quarts  of 
cold  water,  six  cloves,  one- half  cup  each,  turnip,  carrot,  onion  and  celery 
cut  in  dice,  two  sprigs  of  parsley,  one  tablespoonful  of  salt.  Wipe  beef, 
cut  lean  meat  into  one  inch  cubes,  brown  one-third  of  the  meat  in  a  hot 
frying  pan  and  the  marrow  from  the  bone,  put  remainder  of  meat  and  bone 
in  soup  kettle  with  water  and  let  stand  one-half  hour,  add  browoed  meat 
and  heat  gradually,  cook  slowly  six  hours,  keeping  below  the  boiliug  point, 
add  seasoning  and  vegetables,  cook  one  and  one-half  hours,  strain  and  cool. 

— Selected. 

White  Soup  Stock 

Three  pounds  of  knuckle  veal,  one  pound  of  lean  beef,  three  quarts  of 
water,  one  onion,  six  slices  of  carrot,  one  large  stalk  of  celery,  one- half 
teaspoonful  of  peppercorns,  one-half  bay  leaf,  two  sprigs  of  thyme,  two 
cloves.  Wipe  and  cut  meat  into  fine  pieces^  break  the  bone  in  several 
places,  put  into  a  soup  kettle  and  cover  with  cold  water,  simmer  gently  for 
four  hours,  add  vegetables  and  seasoning,  and  simmer  one  hour  longer, 
strain,  when  cool  remove  fat.  — Selected. 


103 


Salmon  Soup 
Remove  oil,  bone  and  skin  from  one-half  can  of  salmon  (one  pound), 
chop  salmon  very  fine.  Boil  one  quart  of  milk  with  a  slice  of  onion  in  it, 
thicken  milk  with  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
flour  rubbed  together.  Season  with  salt,  pepper  and  mustard,  boil  five 
minutes,  add  salmon  and  when  heated  and  ready  to  serve,  remove  onion. 

—Selected. 

Tomato  Soup 

One  quart  of  stewed  tomatoes  (one  can),  one  pint  of  stock  or  water, 
one  small  onion,  one  sprig  of  parsley,  one  bay  leaf,  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
corn  starch,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  salt  and  pepper.  Stew  tomatoes, 
bay  leaf,  onion  and  water  till  soft,  strain,  wash  the  saucepan  and  put 
tomatoes  back  again,  boil  and  thicken  with  the  corn  starch  and  butter 
ruffled  together.     Season,  and  then  serve.  — Selected. 

Ox  Tail  Soup 

One  ox  tail,  two  pounds  lean  beef,  four  carrots,  three  onions,  thyme 
and  parsley,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  four  quarts  cold  water.  Cut  tail  into 
Joints,  fry  brown  in  good  dripping.  Slice  onions  and  two  carrots  and  fry 
ia  the  same,  when  you  have  taken  out  the  pieces  of  tail.  When  done  tie 
the  thyme  and  parsley  in  lace  bag,  and  drop  into  the  soup  pot.  Put  in  the 
tail,  then  the  beef  cut  into  strips.  Grate  over  them  two  whole  carrots, 
pour  over  all  the  water,  and  boil  slowly  four  hours;  strain  and  season; 
thicken  with  brown  flour  wet  with  cold  water;  boil  fifteen  minutes  and 
gerve.  — Kmma  Morris. 

Potato  Soup 

Three  potatoes,  one  pint  of  milk,  or  milk  and  water  mixed,  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  chopped  onion,  one  saltapoonful  of  salt,  one  speok  white  pepper, 
one-half  tablespoonful  of  flour,  one-half  tablespoonful  of  drippings.  Wash, 
pare  and  put  potatoes  into  boiling  water  and  cook  until  very  tender,  cook 
the  onion  In  the  milk  in  a  double  boiler,  when  the  potatoes  are  soft,  drain 
and  mash  them,  add  the  boiling  water  and  seasoning,  rub  thorn  through  a 
strainer  and  put  them  back  into  the  double  boiler  to  boll  again,  melt  the 
drippings  in  a  pan,  add  the  flour  and  stir  until  It  thickens,  stir  this  into  the 
boihna  milk  and  let  It  boil  five  minuten.  —Selected. 


104 


Bouillon 

Five  pounds  of  lean  beef,  two  pounds  of  l)one,  three  q.iarts  of  cold 
water,  one  tablespoonful  of  salt,  one  third  each  of  carrot,  turnij),  onion, 
celery,  one  teaspoonful  of  peppercorns  Wipe  and  cut  meat  into  one  inch 
cubes,  put  two  thirds  of  meat  in  soup-kettie  with  bone  in  water  and  souk 
one  half  hour,  brown  remainder  of  meat  in  marrow  from  bone,  put  into  a 
kettle,  heat  slowly,  skim  thoroughly  and  simmer  five  hours,  add  seasoning 
and  vegetables,  cook  one  hour,  strain  and  cool,  remove  every  particle  (»f 
fat  and  clear.     Serve  in  cups  with  a  slice  of  lemon.  — Selected. 

Soups  with  Pastes  or  Vegetables 

Prepare  and  clear  stock  In  salted  water  boil  macaroni,  vermicelli, 
barley,  rice,  tapioca,  or  other  vegetables  or  dry  material  until  done;  drain 
and  add  to  the  clear  soup  and  simmer  together  ten  minutes.  Proportion, 
one-half  cup  cooked  material  to  one  quart  stock  Vegetables  should  be 
boiled  in  salted  water,  cut  in  shapes,  and  added  to  stock  in  same  proportion. 

— Selected. 

Tomato  Soup  with  Stock 

One  quart  stock,  one  can  tomatoes,  salt,  pepper,  and  sugar  to  taste; 
stew  and  strain  tomatoes;  add  to  boiling  stock,  season,  and  simaaer  ten 
minutes.  — Selected. 

Tomato  Soup  without  Stock 

Stew  together  for  ten  minutes  one  can  tomatoes,  one  pint  water,  one 
teaspoon  salt,  one  tablespoon  sugar,  five  cloves,  one-half  teaspoon  pepper- 
corns, one  tablespoon  chopped  onion,  one  tablespoon  chopped  parsley.  Rub 
through  sieve,  return  to  fire,  and  thicken  with  one  tablespoon  butter  and 
one  tablespoon  flour  rubbed  together  and  stirred  in.  — Selected. 

Vegetable  Soup 

Three  large  potatoes,  half  of  a  very  small  head  of  cabbage,  one  onion 
and  one  large  totnato..  After  the  vegetables  have  all  been  chopped  very 
fine,  add  a  handfuU  of  rice  and  about  a  handfull  of  corn  (dried  corn  prefer- 
red). Let  the  vegetables  boil  about  two  hours  in  the  beef  broth.  When 
well  cooked  remove  from  the  stove  and  add  one  quart  of  sweet  milk  and 
cream  mixed,  season  to  taste.  Strain  the  soup  and  serve  vegetables  and 
soup  in  diflferent  dishes.  Butter  and  lard  may  be  used  for  seasoning  in- 
stead of  soup  bone.  — Grrace  Tully, 


105 


IDeoetablcs 


Hints  on  Cooking;  Vegetables 

First — Have  tbein  fresh  as  possible  Summer  vegetables  should  be 
cooked  on  the  same  day  they  are  gathered.  Second — Look  them  over  and 
wash  well,  cutting  out  all  decayed  and  unripe  parts.  Third — Lay  them, 
when  peeled,  in  cold  water  for  some  time  before  using.  Fourth — Always  let 
water  boil  before  putting  them  io,  and  continue  to  boil  until  done. 

Turnips — should  be  peeled,  and  boiled  from  forty  minutes  to  an  hour. 

Beets — Boil  from  one  to  two  hours;  then  put  in  cold  water  and  slip 
skin  otf. 

Spinach — Boll  twenty  miuutes. 

Parsnips — Boil  from  twenty  to  thirty  minutes. 

Onions — Best  boiled  in  two  or  three  waters,  adding  milk  the  last  time. 

String  Beans — Should  be  boiled  one  and  one-half  hours 

Shell  Beans — Require  an  hour. 

Green  Corn — Boil  twenty  or  thirty  minutes. 

Green  Peas — Should  be  boiled  in  as  little  water  as  possible;  boil 
twenty  minutes. 

Asparagus — Same  as  peas;  serve  an  toast  with  cream  and  gravy. 

Winter  Squash — Cut  in  pieces  and  boil  twenty  to  forty  minutes  in 
small  quantity  of  water;  when  done,  press  water  out,  mash  smooth,  season 
with  butter,  pepper  and  salt. 

Cabbage — Should  be  boiled  from  one  to  two  hours  in  plenty  of  water; 
salt  while  boiling. 

Asparagus  on  Toast 
Have  stalks  of  equallength;  scrape  lower  ends;  tie  in  small  bunches 
with  tape.  Cook  twenty  to  thirty  minutes,  according  to  size.  Dip  in  six 
or  eight  slices  of  dry  toast  in  asparagus  liquor,  lay  on  hot  platter,  place 
asparagus  over  them,  and  cover  with  a  white  or  drawn  butter  sauce,  in 
making  sauce  use  asparagus  liquor  and  water  or  milk  in  equal  quantities, 

— S«l«cted. 


106 


Baked  Beans 

Soak  one^quart  of  beans  over  nfght.  In  the  morning  put  them  in 
fresh,  cold  water  and  allow  them  to  simmer  until  they  can  be  easily  pierced 
with  a  pin;  if  desired  an  onion  may  be  boiled^with  them.  When  soft,  pour 
beans  in  colander  and  pour  cold  water  through  them.  Remove  the  onion. 
Take  one-fourth  pound  of  salt  pork,  pour  boiling  water  over  it  and  scrape. 
Put  beans  in  pan  placing  meat  in  the  center.  Mix  together  one  teaspoon- 
ful  of  salt,  one  of  mustard  and  one-fourth  cup  of  molasses,  fllling  the  cup 
with  hot  water.  Pour  over  beans  and  add  enough  water  to  cover  them. 
Bake  six  or  eight  hours.  — Emma  Brown. 

Baked  Tomatoes 

Ten  nice  sized  tomatoes,  15  cents  worth  of  boiled  ham,  a  few  sprigs 
of  parsley,  five  or  six  crackers;  cut  the  top  off  the  tomatoes,  with  a  spoon 
take  out  the  inside  put  in  a  sauce  pan,  set  on  the  fire,  season  with  salt, 
pepper  and  butter,  cook  till  fine,  have  the  ham  and  crackers  ground.  Just 
before  taking  off,  add  the  ham  and  crackers  enough  to  thicken ;  fill  the 
tomatoes,  put  a  few  dry  cracker  urumbs  and  small  piece  of  butter  on  top  of 
each  tomato,  put  in  a  baking  pan  and  bake  a  nice  brown.     Serve  at  once., 

—Mrs   Noffsinger. 

Stuffed  Tomatoes 

Wipe  and  remove  slices  from  stem  end  of  six  medium  sized  tomatoes, 
take  out  seeds  and  pulp,  sprinkle  inside  of  tomatoes  with  salt,  invert  and 
let  stand.  Cook  one-half  tablespoonful  of  mineed  onion,  with  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  butter,  five  minutes;  add  one-half  cupful  of  finely  chopped 
cooked  chickon  or  veal,  one-half  cupful  stale,  soft  broad  crumbs,  tomato 
pulp,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  cook  five  minutes,  then  add  one  egg  slightly 
beaten,  cook  one  minute  and  refill  tomatoes  with  mixture,  place  in  buttered 
pan,  sprinkle  with  buttered  crumbs  and  bake  twenty  minutes  in  a  hot  oven. 

—Selected. 

Macaroni  and  Tomato  Sauce 

Boll  macaroni  in  salted  water  forty- five  minutes  or  till  very  leader, 
drain  and  reheat  in  tomato  sauce;  if  liked,  sprinkle  with  grated  cheese,  or 
cover  macroni  with  tomato  sauce,  sprinkle  wlih  butterd  crumbs  and  bake 
till  brown.  — .Selected. 


i(n 


Potato  Biscuit 

Two  cups  Hour,  three  tablespoons  lard  aud  butter,  one  teaspoon  salt, 
two  cups  mashed  potatoes,  three  teaspoons  Riimford  Baking  Powder,  about 
two  cups  milk.  Sift  together  the  flour,  salt  and  baking  powder;  rub  in  the 
butter,  add  the  potato  and  mix  as  ordinary  biscuit  witli  the  milk.  Koll 
rather  thin  and  bake  in  a  quicik  oven. 

Creamed  Tomatoes 

Wipe,  peel  aud  slice  three  tomatoes,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  and 
sauter  in  one  tablespoonfui  of  hot  butter;  when  soft  put  on  a  hot  platter, 
add  one  tablespoonfui  of  flour  to  fat  in  pan,  add  slowly  one  cupful  of  milk, 
stir  till  smooth,  season,  and  pour  over  tomatoes. 

—  Selected. 

Creamed  Cabbage 

Chop  the  cabbage,  put  on  in  sauce  pan  with  one  cup  of  cream,  lump 
of  butter,  pepper  and  salt;  when  done  have  a  thickening  of  flour  and  milk 
and  stir  in  until  the  right  consistency. 

— Mrs     Harry  (how,  Richmond,  Ind. 

Baked  Beans 

Soak  one  quart  white  soup  beans  over  night,  season  with  salt,  pepper, 
one  tablespoonfui  prepared  mustard,  two  tablespoonfuls  sorghum  molasses, 
aud  a  piece  of  fresh  pork,  cover  with  water  and  bake. 

— Norah  Abbott. 

Scalloped  Corn 

One  can  corn,  butter  pan,  then  put  layer  of  cracker  crumbs  rolled  tine, 
then  layer  of  corn  with  butter,  salt  and  pepper,  then  crackers  and  so  on 
until  you  have  used  all  the  corn,  put  lots  of  butter  on  top,  pour  two-thirds 
of  a  pint  of  milk  in  pan  and  bake  one  hour. 

— Mrs.  Alice  Cox,  Kokomo,  Ind. 

Favorite  Fried  Potatoes 

Slice  and  fry  as  for  plain  fried  potatoes,  using  plenty  lard,  salt  and 
pepper.  When  done  add  sweet  milk  or  cream,  cover  good  and  let  boil  up 
a  few  minutes.  — Mrs.  J.  S.  Edwards. 


lOH 


Canned  Corn 

Cut  corn  from  cob,  fill  quart  glass  cans,  add  one  teaspoonful  of  salt  to 
each  quart  can  of  corn,  then  with  a  spoon  crush  ihc  corn  until  cream  from 
the  corn  comes  to  the  neck  of  the  can  or  corn  is  entirely  covered ;  place 
cans  in  boiler  of  water  and  boil  three  hours;  seal  and  place  in  a  cool,  daik 
place.  — Ethel  Fadely. 

Pickled  Beans 

String,  but  do  not  break,  about  two  gallons  of  green  beans,  then  par- 
boil in  salt  water  until  tender;  heat  four  pints  of  vinegar  with  sugar  enough 
to  weaken,  add  a  dash  of  cloves,  allspice  and  pepper,  drop  in  the  beans 
and  heat  all  together,  seal  in  self-sealer  cans.  This  recipe  makes  about 
four  quarts.  — Mrs.  Riley  Fleming. 

Cabbage  and  Potatoes 

One-half  large  head  of  cabbage  cut  up  as  for  frying,  allow  it  to  cook 
about  twenty  minutes,  then  add  five  or  six  medium  sized  potatoes  cut  in 
large  cubes,  season  with  salt,  pepper  aiid  meat  fryings  if  possible,  if  not 
use  equal  parts  of  lard  and  butter,  cook  until  potatoes  will  mash  readily 
when  pressed  with  fork  — Mrs.  O.  P.  Lewis. 

Scalloped  Cabbage 

Alternate  layers  of  cabbage  and  cracker  crumbs  seasoned  with  salt, 
pepper  and  butter,  cover  the  whole  with  milk  and  cook  in  oven 

— Mrs.  J.  A.  Painter. 

Irish  Potatoes  and  Dumplings 

Feel  four  or  five  large  potatoes,  split,  put  in  pot  or  kettle  with  one- 
half  gallon  water  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  add  large  table- 
spoon heaping  full  of  fresh  lard;  let  cook  until  almost  done  then  have  ready 
dumplings  made  as  follows:  One  pint  cold  water,  salt  to  taste,  one  table- 
spoonful  of  fresh  lard,  mix  this  with  flour  to  a  moderate  stiff  dough,  roll 
out  thin  and  cut  in  squares,  and  take  out  some  of  the  potatoes  and  then 
put  in  one  layer  of  dumplings  and  sprinkle  a  little  flour  over  them,  then 
put  some  potatoes  and  then  the  dumplings  until  they  are  all  in;  if  there  is 
not  enough  water  add  more  boiling  water,  cover  and  let  boil,  stirring  just  as 
little  as  possible.  — Mrs.  J.  S.  Edwards. 


lt)il 


Corn  for  Supper 

Roll  fine  one  and  one-half  dozen  crackers,  mix  with  one  egg,  four 
tablespoonfuls  of  cream  or  milk  and  one-half  can  of  corn,  salt  and  pepper; 
make  into  cakes  and  fry  in  hot  lard  and  butter.  —  Jessie  Downs. 

Scalloped  Corn 

To  either  fresh  or  canned  corn  add  salt,  pepper,  and  butter  to  taste, 
place  alternately  a  layer  of  corn  with  a  layer  of  cracker  crumbs  in  a  baking 
dish  until  dish  is  full,  pour  cream  over  top  and  bake. 

— Hattie  Fadely. 

Baked  Beans 

Parboil  10  cents'  worth  of  navy  beans,  drain  off  water  and  put  beans 
in  large  baking  pan;  add  a  can  of  tomatoes  and  a  can  of  corn;  also  some 
bacon  cut  up  in  small  pieces;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste;  add  enough  water  to 
keep  them  from  drying  out  and  place  in  oven.  In  cooking,  the  corn  and 
tomatoes  will  mix  through  the  beans.  The  longer  these  are  baked  the 
better  they  are.  It  is  a  good  idea  to  cook  ttese  on  washday  if  you  use  a 
coal  stove.     Then  one  fire  will  serve  both  purposes.  — Selected. 

Lucania   Potatoes 

Wash  and  bake  six  large  potatoes.  Cut  a  slice  from  the  top  of  each. 
Scoop  out  inside  and  mash.  To  three  cupfuls  of  mashed  potatoes  add  six 
tablespoonfuls  of  finely  chopped  cold  cooked  ham,  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
finely  chopped  parsley,  the  whites  of  two  eggs  well  beaten,  three  table- 
spoonfuls of  butter,  four  tablespoonfuls  of  rich  milk  or  cream  and  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste.  Line  potato  shells  with  the  mixture,  place  in  each  cavity 
a  poached  egg,  cover  with  the  potato  mixture  and  bake  until  brown. 

— Mrs.  Maud  Collier,  Hartford  City. 

Potato  Glace 

Boil  potatoes  with  peelings  on.  After  standing  over  night  they  will 
be  somewhat  dry,  then  peel  them  and  grate  them.  Put  in  one  or  two  eggs, 
very  little  flour,  pinch  of  salt.  Mix  thoroughly  and  make  into  balls. 
Drop  into  boiling  water  and  boil.  When  they  come  to  top  of  water,  they 
ar«  done.     Brown  onions  in  butter  aud  put  on  them. 

— Mrs.   Adolph  Levy. 


110 


Canned  Beans 

Two  quarts  of  beans,  one- half  cup  of  vinegar,  one  tablef^poon  of  salt, 
one  tablespoon  of  sugar;  cover  well  with  water;  cook  one-half  hour,  then 
can.  When  open  for  use,  pour  off  water,  add  pinch  of  soda  and  cook  wilb 
meat.  — Mrs.  Lucy  Myers. 

Potato  Chips 

Peel  potatoes  and  slice  very  thin,  spread  on  a  cloth  to  drain  for  five 
or  ten  minutes.  Drop  (only  a  few  at  a  time)  into  hot  lard  and  fry  until  a 
golden  brown.     Remove  and  sprinkle  salt  over  while  hot. 

—  Mrs    Imo  Flnming. 

To  Use  Cold  Mashed  Potatoes 

Add  a  little  milk,  an  egg,  flour  in  which  there  is  baking  powder  in  the 
proportion  of  one  spoonful  to  the  cup  of  flour,  and  salt  to  laste,  thus 
making  a  moderately  stiff  batter  Drop  from  the  spoon  into  hot  lard  and 
fry  until  a  golden  brown.  — Mrs.    J^i    S.   Lorenz,  Dayton. 


The  best  results  can  be  obtained  from  the 
recipes  in  this  book  by  the  use  of  A  &  P 
Baking  Powder,  A  &  P  Spaces  and  A  &  P 
Extracts.  A  handsome  and  useful  present  . 
with  each  50c  can  of  Baking  Powder  or 
one  pound  of  Spice  or  two  bottles  of  Ex= 
tracts.  We  also  handle  a  full  Bine  of  Teas, 
Coffees  and  Grocery  Specials.  All  of  OUR 
goods  sold  under  a  positive  gaurantee  to 
give  satisfaction,  or  your  money  will  be 
refunded.  Our  wagon  passes  your  house 
every  two  weeks. 

THE  GREAT  ATLANTIC  &  PACIFIC  TEA  CO. 
212  S.  Walnut  St.  Muncie,  Ind. 


Ill 


fllMscellancous 


Baked  Apples 

Core  six  medium  sized  apples,  fill  one-half  full  sugar,  one  English  wal 
nut  meat  to  each  apple,  chopped  and  added  on  the  sugar.  Teaspoonful  sugar 
and  one  of  butter  on  top  of  each  and  four  tablespoonsful  of  sugar  in  bottom 
of  pan  one-half  cup  boiling  water,  put  into  oven  and  bake.  Serve  with 
whipped  cream.  — Mrs.  C  J.  Crim,  BloomiLgton,  Ind. 

Tomato  Sauce 

One  pint  of  stewed  tomatoes,  one  slice  of  onion,  one-half  bay  leaf, 
one  spring  of  parsley,  one  tablespoonful  of"  butter,  one  tablespoonful  of 
flour,  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  speck  of  pepper.  Cook  tomato,  onion, 
bay  leaf  and  parsley  fifteen  minutes,  strain;  melt  butter,  add  flour,  and 
when  bubbling,  the  tomatoes  slowly.  Season  and  cook  till  smooth  and 
glossy.     If  tomatoes  are  very  acid  add  a  few  grains  of  soda. 

—Mrs.  J.  M.  Walker. 

To  Preserve  Eg^s 

Keep  in  lime-water,  or  pack  in  sawdust,  small  ends  down.  During 
the  summer  a  large  number  of  eggs  are  packed,  small  ends  down,  in  cases 
having  compartments,  one  for  each  egg,  and  kept  in  cold  storage;  they  may 
thus  be  kept  six  months,  but  their  quality  is  very  much  impaired. 

— Mary  Smith, 

Floating  Island 
One  quart  milk,  four  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  beaten  separately,  four 
tablespoons  sugar,  two  teaspoons  extract  vanilla  or  bitter  almonds,  one- 
half  cup  currant  jelly.  Heat  milk  to  scalding,  but  not  boiling.  Heat  the 
yolks;  stir  into  them  the  sugar,  and  pour  upon  them  gradually,  mixing 
well,  a  cup  of  the  hot  milk.  Put  into  saucepan  and  boil  until  it  begins  to 
thicken.  When  cool,  flavor  and  pour  into  a  glass  dish.  Heap  upon  top 
meringue  of  whites  whipped  until  you  can  cut  it,  j^to  which  you  have  beat- 
en the  jelly,  a  teaspoon  at  a  time.  —Cora  Jordan, 


IIL' 


A  Dish  for  the  Dutch 

Boil  nice  piece  of  ham  boue  till  tender,  use  one  pint  of  dried  apples, 
(sweet  IS  better,  if  sour  add  one  cup  sugar).  Have  plenty  of  stock  into 
which  drop  in  your  dough  made  as  follows:  two  eggs,  sweet  milk,  one 
spoon  baking  powder,  stir  in  flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter  Drop  a  spoon- 
full  in  a  place,  soak  about  fifteen  minutes      Serve  hot. 

— Mrs.  Elizabeth  Fadely. 

Macaroni 

Have  a  large  kettle  nearly  full  of  rapidly  boiling  salted  water.  Break 
macaroni  into  two  or  three  inch  lengths,  drop  into  the  water,  :ind  boil  as 
directed  for  rice  until  tender,  which  will  take  from  thirty  to  forty  five 
minutes.  Drain,  then  pour  cold  water  through  the  colander  to  remove 
pastiness.  Reheat  in  a  little  butter,  or  in  a  wliile,  brown,  or  tomato  sauce^ 
Before  sending  to  table,  sprinkle  thickly  wi'^h  grated  cheese  or  stir  the 
cheese  through  it.  Spaghetti,  vermicelli,  or  any  other  of  the  forms  of 
paste   may  be  prepared  in  the  same  way.  — Selected. 

'   Mush 

To  m  .ke  mush  to  fry  for  breakfast  take  one  gallon  of  rich  beef  broth, 
when  it  is  l)oiling  brisk  stir  into  it  one  pint  of  corn  meal,  one-half  pint  of 
flour,  one  pint  of  Ralston  Breakfast  Food  or  oat  meal,  when  cold  slice  and 
fry.  N  — Ulara  Smith. 

Doughnuts 

Two  cups  granulated  sugar,  tA^o  eggs,  one-half  cup  butter,  then  add 
eggs,  beat  until  very  light,  then  add  milk  and  stir  thoroughly,  add  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt,  three  teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder  sifted  in  with  flour, 
make  a  soft  dough,  roll  half  inch  thick,  and  fry  in  hot  lard. 

— Mrs.  Eliza  Harry. 

Cake  Without  Eggs 

Two  cups  sugar  (soft  white),  two-tiiirds  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  seed- 
less raisins,  (flour  and  chop  fine.)  one  cup  liquid  yeast,  one  teaspoonful  of 
soda,  dissolve  in  one- half  cup  of  warm  water,  one  teaspoonful  of  baking 
powder,  one  teaspoonful  cinnamon,  one  teaspoonful  cloves,  one  teaspoon- 
ful alUpiie,  three  cups  flouTf  — Mrs.  J.   M    Inman,  Otlon,  Ind. 


113 


To  Cook  Greens 

Wbile  tlie  greens  are  cooking  in  suit  water  take  oue  pound  of  nice 
country  sausage  cut  up  in  small  bits  and  fry  brown,  then  drain  the  g'-eens 
and  a^'d  the  sausage,  also  the  fat  it  was  fried  in,  cook  slowly  five    minutes. 

—  Mrs.    Barbara  Kraus. 

A  Good  Poultice 

Wiiite  of  au  egg  mixed  witb  table  salt.  Good  for  sprains  or  bruises  of 
any  kind.  — Mrs.  Sarah  Tarkleson. 

Creamy  Omelet 

Four  eggs,  one-half  teaspoouful  of  salt,  four  tablespoonfuls  of  milk, 
one  half  saltspoouful  of  pepper.  Beat  eggs  lightly,  add  other  ingredients, 
mix  well  and  pour  into  a  hot  buttered  omelet  pan,  lift  gently  with  a  fork  as 
it  begins  to  cook,  letting  the  uncooked  egg  run  under;  when  of  a  creamy 
consistency  roll  and  turn  out  — Mollie  Starr. 

Beef  Loaf 

Three  pounds  roundsteak  (chopped),  one-half  pound  salt  pork,  one  cup 
bread  crumbs,  two  eggs,  one-half  cup  milk,  salt,  pepper  and  sage  or 
onion  to  taste,  season  pn  tty  high,  pack  in  square  tin,  grease  tin  first  then 
wet  wiih  cold  water,  bake  in  a  good  oven  from  one  and  one- half  to  two 
hours,  cover  until  last  half  hour.  — Mrs.  Carrie  Ledgerwood. 

Asparagus  on  Toast 

Toast  several  slices  of  bread  and  crumb  into  a  dish.  Cook  asparagus, 
seasoning  with  butter,  cream,  salt  and  pepper.  Pour  over  crumbs  and 
serve  hot.  — Melvina  Frances. 

Mince  Meat 
One  pound  currants,  one  pound  raisins,  two  and  one-half  pounds 
brown  sugar,  one  pound  suet,  two  and  one  half  pounds  lean  beef,  one- half 
peck  apples,  one- half  pound  citron,  one  half  ounce  cinnamon,  one-fourth 
ounce  cloves,  one-fourth  ounce  allspice,  ground,  two  nutmegs,  two  oranges, 
one  lemon,  juice  of  boiled  meat,  cider  to  make  proper  consistency. 

—Mrs.  G.  K.  Hart  man. 


114 


Massage  Cream 

One  ounce  of  oil  of  almonds,  one-half  ounce  of  spermaceti,  one  dram 
of  while  wax,  two  ounces  rose  water;  melt  white  wax  and  stir  in  the  other, 
stir  quickly  and  constantly  to  prevent  lumps.  — Mabel  Hayes. 

Kraut  Duirplings 

Boil  one  quart  nice  kraut  with  meat  bone,  when  meat  is  tender  add 
dumpling  made  as  follows:  one  cup  sweet  milk,  one  egg,  one  teaspoon 
baking  powder,  one  tablespoon  butter,  mix  to  a  rather  firm  dough,  roll 
thin,  cut  in  inch  squares  and  drop  into  kraut,  salt  to  suit  taste,  boil  slowly 
for  fifteen  minutes.  — Aunt  Mary. 

How  to  Cook  Mushrooms 

Split  mushrooms  open  and  let  stand  in  salt  water  one  hour,  drain, 
flour  well  and  fry  brown  in  hot  butter  or  lard,  take  out  and  arrange  in  a 
dish,  pour  one  pint  of  rich  milk  in  skillet  let  come  to  a  boil,  pour  over  the 
mushrooms,  season  with  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

— Pauline  Kerlin, 

Canned  Beans 

One- lialf  gallon  green  beans,  the  more  hulled  ones  the  better,  one 
quart  water,  one- half  cup  cider  vinegar,  one  tablespoon  salt,  cook  thirty 
minutes  and  can.  - — Sophia   Keesling. 

Gargle  for  Sore  Throat 

One  pint  hot  water,  one  level  teaspoonful  salt,  one  level  teaspoonful 
vinegar,  a  bit  of  potash  and  of  camphor. 

— Mrs.  H.  F.  Shupe,  Dayton,  Ohio. 

Food  for  Babies 

Sow  one  quart  of  flour  in  a  muslin  sack,  just  large  enough  to  hold  it 
nnd  l)oil  constantly  for  twelve  hours.  Let  stand  until  it  is  perfectly  cold 
remove  with  a  knife  the  colored  substance.  Tliis  leaves  it  hard  and  white. 
Grate  and  run  through  a  sieve;  use  three  teaspoonfuls  of  flour,  three  of 
sugar,  and  stir  to  a  paste  then  stir  to  a  pint  boiling  rain  water,  and  add  a 
pint  of  very  sweet  milk,  new  is  best.  This  is  a  grand  food  and  has  proved 
very  successtul  for  me.  — Mrs.  Walter  Ritchie,  Springport,  Ind. 


115 


Maple  Syrup 

One  cup  brown  sugar,  one  cup  granulated  sugar,  one  cup  water.  BoiJ 
until  done,  without  stirring.      When  cold,  flavor  slightly  with  vanilla. 

— Lizzie  Sheets. 

Nut  Sandwich 

Slice  bread  very  thin,  spread  with  butler  and  salad  dressing,  add  to 
this  nuts  that  have  been  well  rolled.  Nuts  and  dressing  may  be  used  to 
suit  tasie.  — Mrs.    W.  H.  Barton. 

Egg  Sandwiches 

Chop  one  dozen  hard  boiled  eggs,  one-half  of  a  small  onion  or  the 
juice  of  a  whole  one,  salt  and  pepper,  then  add  the  following  dressing: 
yolks  of  two  eggs,  one  even  teaspoonful  corn  starch,  one  and  one- half 
tablespoonfuls  sugar,  one-fourth  teaspoonful  celery  salt,  one-half  cupful 
cream  (or  milk  and  lump  of  butter),  one-fourth  cupful  vinegar.  Cook  until 
it  thickens,  spread  bread  with  butter  and  then  with  the  egg  mixture.  This 
is  sufficient  for  forty  sandwiches. 

— Mrs    Mary  K.  Albert,  Dayton,  Ohio. 

Canned  Green  Beans 

String  and  break  and  fill  cans.  Put  on  rubbers  and  lids  and  set  in 
vessel  of  cold  water.  Steam  three  hours.  Tighten  lids  and  steam  one  hour 
longer.  — Mesdames  Julia  Crittenberger,  Sarah  Trout, 

Honey 

One  find  one-half  pints  boiling  water,  one-third  ounce  pulverized  alum 
when  dissolved  add  four  pounds  white  sugar,  stirring  all  the  time  until 
dissolved,  boil  three  minutes.  Five  drops  of  rose  oil,  one- half  pint  alchol 
added  together  then  put  two  teaspoonfuls  in  above  syrup. 

— Maggie  Painter. 

Parched  Walnuts 

Into  a  frying  pan  pat  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  when  smoking  hot, 
throw  in  one  quart  of  English  walnut  kernels  (not  chopped).  Stir  con- 
stantly until  the  kernels  are  a  delicate  brown.  Pour  out  on  brown  paper 
and  sprinkle  with  salt.     Serve  cold  on  small  dish. 

—Mrs.  11.  H.  Tomkins,  Whittier,  Cal. 


116 


For  Preserving  Hams 

Four  pints  powdered  salt,  two  pints  A  sugar,  two  taMespoons  cayenne 
pepper,  mix  thoroughly  and  add  enough  waier  to  make  paste,  put  on  meat 
and  wrap  in  heavy  paper  and  cloth  and  hang  up.  This  is  sufficient  for  two 
large  hams.  — Mrs.  Nancy  Miller. 

Quince  Honey 

Four  pints  of  granulated  sugar,  one  pint  of  water.  Let  sugar  and 
water  boil  then  add  four  medium  sized  quinces  grated.  Let  boil  five 
minutes.  — Jennie  Clevenger,  Mahala  Davis. 

Spiced  Pears  or  Peaches 

One  pint  good  cider  vinegar,  two  piuts  sugar,  cinnamon  and  cloves  to 
suit  taste,  put  the  vinegar,  sugar  and  spices  togetlier,  and  let  it  come  to 
the  boiling  point,  then  put  in  the  fruit  and  boil  till  tender. 

— Mrs   Sarah  Huffman. 

Oyster  Rarebit 

One  cup  of  oysters,  two  tablet poous  butter,  one-half  pound  of  cheese 
cut  fine,  one-fourth  teaspoon  salt,  few  grains  cayenne,  two  eggs,  six  slices 
toast.  Parboil  the  oysters  and  remove  the  tough  muscle.  Drain  and  re 
serve  the  liquor.  Melt  the  butter,  add  the  cheese,  salt  and  cayenne.  Beat 
the  eggs,  add  the  oyster  liquor  and  add  gradually  to  the  melted  cheese. 
Add  oysters  and  serve  on  toast.  —  Alta  M.  Markle. 

International  Popovers 

Three  cups  of  thrice  sifted  flour,  three  well  beaten  eggs,  three  cups 
sweet  milk,  salt  to  season.  Bake  in  gem  pans  in  quick  oven;  serve  hot 
with  sweetened  cream  or  rich  milk.  — J.  M.  Phiilippi. 

Orange  Marmalade 

This  delicious  preserve,  which  requires  the  greatest  care  in  prepara- 
tion, is  made  chiefly  of  sweet  oranges,  when  they  are  plentiful  and  in  the 
best  condition.  Fare  the  outer  rind  and  the  white  inner  skin  from  one-half 
dozen  oranges,  cut  into  small  pieces  and  put  into  the  preserving  pan;  cover 
with  water  and  cook  gently  one-half  hour.  Then  add  one-half  cup  of  lemon 
juice  and  one  cup  of  sugar,  or  sweeten  to  taste,  and  cook  rifteen  minutes, 
then  fill  the  marmalade  pots. 

—  Mrs.  L.  A    Pickering,  Whittier,  Cal, 


117 


Saratoga  Chips 

Tbe  secret  of  preparing  this  daiunty  dish  mcoly,  lies  in  cutting  the 
slices  to  the  thinness  of  heavy  paper  and  soaking  them  in  cold  water,  with 
a  pinch  of  powdered  alum  added,  not  less  than  six  hours.  Moon,  the 
originator,  is  said  to  have  soaked  thera  in  ice  water  twelve  hours.  This  is 
done  to  draw  the  starch  from  the  potato.  When  you  are  leady  to  fry 
them,  drain  them  from  the  water  and  dry  with  a  cloth.  Have  not  less  than 
two  quarts  of  hot  fat,  have  it  hotter  than  for  almost  any  other  dish.  Do 
not  attempt  to  fry  too  many  at  a  time,  as  they  cool  the  fat  and  the  chips 
are  greasy  and  lack  crispness.  A  granite  kettlo  is  belter  tlian  a  frying 
pan,  as  in  order  to  keep  the  fat  of  an  even  temperature,  it  will  be  neces- 
sary to  move  it  from  time  to  time.  Allow  the  chips  to  fry  six  minutes 
after  the  "boiling  up"  has  stopped,  which  always  takes  place  when  the 
Potatoes  are  first  put  in.  They  should  be  crisp  and  a  deep  yellowish  white, 
but  not  brown.  Drain  them  on  brown  paper,  dredge  over  with  salt,  and 
serve  immediately  in  a  hot,  uncovered  dish.  — Selected. 

A  Sure  Vine  Bug  Remedy 

This  is  a  sure  vine  bug  remedy  for  the  various  insects  that  trouble 
squash,  melons,  cucumbers  and  other  vines.  In  one  quart  of  water  dis- 
solve a  half  teaspoonful  of  saltpeter  and  with  this  liquid  sprinkle  the  vines 
every  evening.  If  any  bugs  appear,  next  evening  apply  again.  Do  not 
apply  in  the  heat  of  the  day  — .Mrs.  Joseph  Shafer. 

Mayonnaise   Dressing 

Two  tablespoons  sugar,  two  teaspoons  flour,  one  teaspoon  salt,  pinch 
of  pepper  and  mustard;  mix  thoroughly,  then  break  one  egg  into  mixiure 
and  stir.  Have  one  cup  vinegar,  weakened  to  suit  the  taste,  boiling  hot 
water,  pour  this  over  all,  put  on  stove  and  cook  until  thick.  When  ready 
to  use,  take  the  required  amount  and  thin  with  cream. 

— Mrs.  Harry  Crow,  Richmond,    Ind. 

Relish 
Six  red  mangoes,  four  medium  sized  onions,  pass  through  grinder  pour 
over  boiling  water  twice,  drain,  heat  two  and  one-sixth  cups    vinegar,    one 
cup  sugar,  one  teaspoon  salt,  bring  to  boiling  point,  pour  over  mangoes  and 
bring  to  boiling  point  also.     Will  keep  without  canning, 

— Mrs.  Eftle  Steele. 


118 


Artificial  Honey 

One  and  one-half  pints  of  water,  let  come  to  a  boiling  point,  add  one- 
third  ounce  of  pulveriztd  aluoa,  when  dissolved  add  four  pounds  of  white 
sugar,  boil  three  minutes  then  add  two  teaspoonfuls  rose  water. 

— Cbas.  Cummins. 

Grape  Honey 

Pick  grapes  from  stem,  press  until  the  juice  covers  them,  put  into  a 
thin  muslin  sack  and  let  drip  over  night.  Do  not  squeeze  the  sack.  Take 
three  times  the  amount  of  the  juice  of  sugar,  place  on  stove  and  let  boil 
three  minutes.  —Ethel  Fadely. 

Nice  Way  to  Serve  Eggs 

Butter  a  pie  pan  and  line  with  finel}'  minced  bread  crumbs,  break  four 
or  Qve  eggs  on  the  crumbs,  salt  and  pepper  add  little  minced  ham  if  you 
have  it.      Bake  five  minutes  in  quick  oven.  — May  Cassada. 

Hermits 

One  and  one-half  cups  of  brown  sugar,  two-thirds  cup  of  butter,  one 
cup  of  chopped  raisins,  one  cup  of  English  walnuts,  chopped,  three  eggs, 
one  teaspoon  of  soda  dissolved  in  two  tablespoons  of  sour  milk  or  a  little 
warm  water,  one  teaspoon  of  vanilla,  enough  flour  to  make  into  a  very  stiff 
batter  and  drop  with  a  teaspoon  on  greased  pans,  bake  in  rather  slow  oven; 
if  they  seem  to  fall  use  more  flour.  — Mrs.  A.  E.  Smith. 

Pear  Honey 

Ten  pears,  five  pounds  sugar,  three  pints  of  water,  make  a  syrup  of 
the  sugar  and  water  then  add  the  grated  pears.  Boil  s'owly  until  it  drops 
from  the  spoon.  — Mrs.  0.  0.  Inman. 

Cheese  Balls 

Mix  one  tablespoon  of  flour,  one  and  one-half  cups  of  mild  grated 
cheese,  a  quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  dash  of  cayenne  pepper.  Beat 
whites  of  three  egcs  very  stiff  into  the  dry  mixture,  shape  into  balls  and 
roll  in  cracker  crumbs,  then  fry  in  deep  fat  and  drain  on  brown  paper. 

— Mesdames  A.  S.  Miller,  Mary  Cummins. 


119 


Mock  Mince  Meat 

Three  pints  of  water,  two  pints  of  sugar,  one  half  pint  of  vinegar,  one- 
half  ponni  of  seedless  raisins,  one  half  pound  of  apples  chopped  tine, 
butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  one  teaspoouful  eacli  of  cinnamon,  cloves,  si)ice, 
nutmeg,  twenty-live  crackers  rolled  fine.      Mix  and   boil. 

—  Mrs.  Sarah  H.  Powell. 

Canned  Pineapple 

Quarter  the  pineapples  and  cut  out  the  hard  portion,  then  take  a  sharp 
knife  ami  chip  the  pineapple  out  to  the  peeling.  Have  ready  a  thin  syrup 
and  (irop  the  ciiipped  pineapple  in  and  cook  until  the  syrup  clears  like 
water.  Have  cans  ready  and  seal.  One  medium  sized  pineapple  will  fill 
cue  pint  glass  can.  — Mrs.  Lert  Fadely. 

Face  Wash 

Three  pints  of  rain  water,  two  ounces  of  salts,  boil  down  to  one  pint, 
add  one- half  teaspoouful  rose  water.  Apply  to  face  with  hands,  massage- 
in^  until  dry.  tiettie  Pickenpaugh. 

Raspberry  Punch 

Juice  of  two  lemons,  juice  of  two  oranges,  juice  from  one  quart  can  of 
r:is!»i»('trie.s  to  o  lO-half  gallon  of  water,  sweeten  to  suit  taste. 

— Cuba  Ocker. 

Baked  Macaroni  and  Cheese 

Cook  macaroni  in  boiling  salted  water  till  tender,  about  twenty-five 
minutes;  drain,  put  in  baking  dish,  nearly  cover  with  milk,  bring  to  a 
boil  on  top  of  stove;  season  with  salt,  cayenne,  mustard  and  a  little  butter, 
sprinkle  the  top  with  grated  cheese,  and  bake  till  brown,  or  cover  macaroni 
with  white  sauce,  putting  in  laj'ers  of  cheese,  cover  with  buttered  crambs 
and  bake  till  brown.  —Emma  Smith 

Grape  Jelly 

To  one  gallon  of  grapes  after  picking  from  the  stems  add  one  quart  of 
cider  vinegar,  one  ounce  of  whole  cloves,  one  ounce  of  cinnamon  bark,  boil 
one-half  hour,  strain  as  for  other  jelly,  boil  twenty  minutes  then  add  six 
pints  of  granulated  sugar,  continue  to  boil  twenty  minutes,  be  sure  it 
beo-ins  boiling  before  timing.  — Alice  Pickering. 


120 


Lemon  Filling  for  Cake 

One-half  cup  granulated  sugar,  one  tablespoon  butter,  one  egg,  grated 
rind  and  juice  of  one  lemon,  mix  and  boil  until  thick;  sufficient  for  two 
layer  cake.  — Mrs.  H.  G.  Myers. 

Stuffed  Tomatoes 

Take  a  sufficient  number  of  fresh  or  hothouse  tomatoes?,  remove  the 
seeds  and  skin  and  place  on  ice  until  ready  to  serve.  Chop  enough  celery 
to  fill  each  tomato  and  mix  with  mayonnaise  dressing.  Serve  on  the  deli- 
cate white  leaves  of  lettuce.  — Mrs.  Mary  Albert. 

Grape  Honey 

Squeeze  juice  from  raw  grapes,  let  juice  stand  until  drugs  settle  to 
bottom  of  vessel,  then  drain  off.  To  three  quarts  of  juice  add  eieht  pounds 
of  sugar,  and  boil  five  minutes.  — Tisa  A.bsliire. 

Macaroni  Cutlets 

One  cup  of  macaroni,  boil  until  tender  and  drain,  one  dip  of  milk, 
one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  Boil  until  thick 
then  take  from  fire  and  add  salt,  pepper  and  macaroni,  when  cuol  shape  in 
cutlets  and  roll  in  cracker  crumbs  and  fry.     .  — Uertha  Myers. 

To  Cure  Meat 

Three  ounces  of  pulverized  sallpeter,  two  quarts  of  silt,  one  pound  of 
brown  sugar.  Rub  the  meat  with  the  mixture  and  let  lay  nine  d:iys,  then 
repeat  the  process  Wash  and  dry  the  meat,  pepper,  hang  up  and  smoke. 
For  one  hundred  pounds. 

XoTE—  The  amount  of  material  required,  as  given  in  this  receipt,  is 
for  two  applications  and  should  be  equally  divided  (or  each  application. 

—  Mrs    id.  C.  Wise. 

Orange  Filling 

Take  the  juice  oi  two  oranges  and  grated  riud  of  one,  add  a  tablespoon 
of  cold  water  and  half  cup  sugar,  mix  a  dessert  spoon  of  corn  starch  in 
tablespoon  of  cold  water,  then  stir  in  one  egii  yolk  beaten  tlioroughly,  put 
iu  orange  juice  and  sugar,  grated  rind  of  orange,  let  come  to  boiling  point, 
then  pour  the  egg  a'.d  corn  starch,  cook  smooth  tlien  add  the  beaten  whites, 
let  cool  before  using.  — Mrs.  Lzora  Jordon 


I 


bread. 


121 


Lettuce  Sandwiches 

A  leaf  of  lettuce  and  mayonnaise  dressiuir  between  slices    of    buttered 

— Mrs.  J.  A.  Painter. 


Amount  of  Sugar  per  Quart  Jar 


Blackberries  (5 

Quinces  8  " 


Canned  Preserved 
Cherries                                           4  oz  8  oz 

Strawberries  8  "  12 

Raspberries  4  "  q 

9 

12 

Pears  •  4   "  g 

Grapes  4  "  g 

Peaches  4  "  g 

Pineapples  8  "  12 

Crab  appl6s  6  "  10 

Plnrns  .           •               6  "  9 

Rhubarb  g  *«  j2 

Sour  apples  6  "  f) 

Currants  .  8  "  12 

Cranberries  8  "  12 

— Selected. 

Preserving 

Preserves  require  from  three- fourths  to  one- half  pound  of  su^ar  to 
each  pound  of  fruit,  and  one-half  cup  of  water  to  each  pound  sugar.  The 
fruit  should  be  simmered  in  the  sjrup  until  tender,  a  little  at  a  time; 
skimmed  out  into  the  jirs;  when  all  are  done  the  syrup  should  be  brought 
to  a  boiling  point,  j.irs  filled  and  sealed.  Hard  fruits  like  quinces  should 
be  first  steamed  or  cooked  in  boiling  water  till  tender.  — Selected 

Maple  Sandwiches 

Whip  to  a  stiff  froth  the  white  of  one  egg  and  add  it  to  one-half  cup 
of  shaved  map'e  sugar,  then  add  one-fourth  cupful  of  chopped  walnut 
meats,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  pulverized  sugar  and  a  teaspoonful  of  finely 
chopped  candied  orange  peel  Spread  iietweeu  thin  slices  of  bread  and  cut 
into  dainty  shapes.  — Mattie  E.  Craven. 


12: 


W.N.SHOWALTER, 

MIDDLETO.VN,  INO. 

Furniture 


We  have  been  selling  Furniture  for  25  years.  We  have 
learned  where,  when,  what  and  how  to  huy  to  best  suit 
our  customers.  ^  ^  S  ^  S  ^ 


If  you  are 
not  already 
one  of  our 
customers  , 
we  want 
you  to  1)6- 
come  one. 


We  try  to  do  busi- 
ness in  such  a  man- 
ner that  when  you 
are  once  our  cus- 
tomer, we  will  con- 
tinue to  have  your 
business. 


We  carry  a  complete  line  of    goods.       Our  prices  are  LOWER  than  most 
dealers  can  offer  you,  and  no  one  can  sell  at  a  less  price  than  ours.         .^ 


We  Want  Your  Business. 

Any  article  bought  of  us  that  is  not  right  will  be 
MTIDE  RIGHT,  and  no  trouble  about  it. 


FREE  DELIVERY. 


12.S 


Macaroni  and  Cheese 

Boil  macaroni  in  salt  water  twenty  minutes,  drain  salt  water  otF,  a 
layer  of  macaroni,  one  of  cheese,  let  the  top  layer  be  cheese,  pour  over  this 
a  cupful  of  cream,  bake  a  light  brown.  — Alice  Wright. 

A  Substitute  for  Lard 

Buy  the  fat  of  beef  known  as  cod  fat.  This  is  the  fat  of  the  flank. 
Do  not  buy  the  kidney  fat  as  that  is  very  hard.  Cut  the  fat  in  slices  three- 
fourths  of  an  incli  thick,  place  in  cold  water  for  several  hours  to  withdraw 
the  blood  then  place  in  a  covered  pot  or  skillet  over  a  medium  Are,  turning 
the  pieces  occasionally.  When  most  of  the  fat  is  withdrawn  pour  into  a 
vessel  to  cool,  pressing  the  pieces  with  a  fork  or  spoon  to  extract  all  the 
remaining  fat.  If  the  fat  is  well  extracted  the  "cracklings''  may  be  thrown 
away  but  if  not  they  may  be  saved  for  greasing  the  griddle.  If  properly 
cared  for  this  fat  will  be  as  soft  and  white  as  lard  and  may  be  used  in  the 
same  way.  Pie  crust  made  from  this  is  far  sweeter  and  better  than  from 
any  other  fat.      The  writer  has  used  this  for  twenty  years. 

— Mrs.  L    E.  Custer. 

Deviled  Cheese 

One  and  one  half  cups  grated  cheese,  two  tablespoons  olive  oil,  two 
tablespoons  vinegar,  one  teaspoon  dry  mustj^rd,  one  teaspoon  Worcester- 
shire sauce,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  crackers.  Mix  the  cheese,  mustard, 
salt  and  pepper.  Add  the  oil  and  beat  until  creamy,  then  mix  in  the  vine- 
gar and  sauce.  Spread  on  hot,  toasted  crackers,  or  spread  on  ordinary 
crackers  or  toast,  and  heat  for  five  minutes  in  a  quick  oven. 

— Alice  Brown. 

Stuffed  Tomato  Salad 

Six  ripe  tomatoes,  one-half  pint  cream  dressing,  two  cucumbers, 
lettuce,  salt  and  pepper.  Scald  the  tomatoes  so  that  the  skins  can  be 
easily  removed.  Cut  a  slice  from  the  top  of  each,  and  with  a  small  spoon 
remove  the  seeds.  Peel  the  cucumbers  and  cut  them  into  dice,  season 
highly  and  mix  with  at  least  half  the  dressing.  Fill  the  tomato  cups  with 
this  and  pat  another  spoon  of  the  dressing  on  top.  Sprinkle  a  very  little 
finely  chopped  parsley  over  and  serve  on  a  bed  of  lettuce  leaves. 

— Ethel  Loring. 


124 


Spiced  Pluips 

One  pint  of  vinegar,  add  three  pounds  sugar,  one  teaspuon  each  of 
cloves,  cinnamon  and  allspice,  boil  all  together,  have  ready  four  quarts  of 
plums,  repeat  the  boiling  of  liquor  each  day  for  nine  dajs  and  pour  over 
the  fruit  hot,  then  seal.  — Sarah  Whitworth. 

Pickled  Ripe  Olives 

Cover  two  gallons  of  ripe  olives  with  strong  lye  water,  let  stand  two 
weeks,  or  until  the  olives  are  no  longer  bitter;  change  lye  water  once  in 
that  time.  Drain  off  lye  water,  and  cover  with  fresh  water,  changing  every 
day  for  one  week.  Drain  again  and  cover  with  weak  salt  water  for  three 
davs  then  put  on  a  new  weak  brine  to  keep  them  in.     Ready  for  use. 

—a.  H.  Tomkins. 

For  Sugar  Curing  Meat 

Four  quarts  salt,  one  pound  brown  sugar,  one  half  pound  saltpetc^r, 
one-half  pound  pepper.      For  two  hogs.  — John  Wilkinson. 

Grape  Honey 

Three  quarts  of  grape  juice,  eight  pounds  of  granulnicd  sugar,  mash 
grapes    and  dtain  and  cook     Cook  as  tuick  as  desired. 

—  Mrs.  Miiitha  Abahire. 

Pie  Crust  with  Beef  Fat 

To  one  cup  flour  and  half  teaspoon  of  salt  mix  one-half  cup  of  fat  with 
a  spoon  or  by  the  hand  working  fat  and  flour  well  together  tiien  ad(i  about 
one-third  cup  of  waim  water  to  make  a  soft  dough.  The  dough  should 
work  easily  into  a  mass  and  free  from  the  pan.  Flour  the  board  lightly 
and  roll  thin.  This  will  make  one  cohered  or  two  open  pies.  Watch  your 
oven,  do  not  let  the  crust  brown  too  soon,  it  should  putf  up  first. 

— Mrs.  L.  E.  Custer. 

Marshmallow  Frosting 

Boil  three-fourths  of  a  cup  of  granulated  sugar  and  one- fourth  of  a  cup 
of  milk,  without  stirring,  about  six  minutes,  or  until  the  syrup  threads. 
Cook  and  stir  one-fourth  a  pound  of  marshmallows  and  two  tablespoons  of 
water  over  boiling  water,  until  the  mixture  is  smooth.  Combine  the  two 
mixtures  and  beat  until  stiflf  enough  to  spread,  after  flavoring  with  half  a 
teaspoon  of  vanilla  extract.  — Mayme  Keller, 


125 


Nut  Bars 

Two  cups  flour,  one  cup  coarsol,- chopped  nuts,  one-half  cup  sugar, 
two  tablespoons  butter,  one  teaspoon  Rumford  baking  powder,  one-half  cup 
milk,  one  egg,  pinch  of  salt.  Sift  flour,  salt  and  baking  powder  into  a 
bowl;  rub  in  the  butter  and  add  the  nuts  and  sugar.  Mix  to  a  rather  stifT 
dough  with  the  egg  and  milk,  turn  on  to  a  floured  board  and  roll  out  two- 
thirds  of  an  inch  thick.  Cut  into  bars  of  convenient  size  and  fry  in  hot 
fat  until  golden  brown.  —Ella  M.  Cash. 

Chocolate  Cookies 

One  half  cup  butter,  one  cup  sugar,  one  egg,  well  beaten,  one-fourth 
tea'spoon  salt,  two  ounces  chocolate,  melted,  two  and  one-half  scant  cups 
flour,  two  level  teaspoons  Rumford  baking  powder,  one- fourth  cup  milk. 
Creara  the  butter,  add  sugar  gradually,  egg,  salt,  and  chocolate.  Beat 
well  and  add  flour  and  baking  powder  sifted  together  thoroughly,  alternate- 
ly with  railk  Chill,  roll  very  thin,  then  shape  with  a  small  cutter  first 
dipped  in  flour,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven.  — Edna  M.  Fisher. 

Pickle  Meat 

Seven  pounds  of  salt,  five  pounds  of  C  sugar,  two  ounces  of  saltpeter, 
seven  gallons  of  water.  Boil  all  together  and  skim,  let  get  cold  then  put 
over  the  meat;  this  is  for  one  hundred  pounds  of  meat 

— Mrs.  George  Zollman. 

How  to  Cook  New  Potatoes 

Wash,  scrape,  boil  ten  minutes,  pour  ofl'  broth,  cover  with  more  water 
add  salt,  pepper  and  thicken  with  two  teaspoons  of  flour,  one  pint  of  sweet 
cream  and  let  boil,  or  when  cooked  and  drained,  put  in  skillet  with  hot 
butter,  cover  over  and  shake  till  brown.  — Alice  Kerlin. 


B.  H.  KLIS  G  SON, 

Pot  Plants,  Horal  Work  and  Bulbs  a  specialty 
Both  Phones,  126.  Anderson,  Ind 


126 


Fried  Ham  Sandwiches 

One  cup  chopped  boiled  ham,  one  teaspoon  made  mustard,  one  tea- 
spoon chopped  parsley,  one  teaspoon  onion  juice.  Mix  all  well  together; 
spread  between  layers  of  bread.  Dip  each  sandwich  in  a  batter  made  by 
mixing  one  tablespoon  of  flour,  half  a  teaspoon  of  Rumford  baking  powder, 
one  egg  and  one  cup  of  milk.  Fry  in  hot  butter  or  drippings  and  serve 
with  tomato  sauce,  — Carrie  V.  Pritchard. 

Dreams 

Place  a  layer  of  cheese  between  thin  slices  of  bread  and  fry  quickly  in 
butter  until  a  delicate  brown  on  both  sides.     Eat  at  once. 

— Mrs.  J.  C.  Daniels. 

To  Make  Mush 

Let  the  water  boil,  then  sift  meal  sufficient  to  thicken  the  amount  de- 
sired, mix  meal  in  cold  water  and  stir  into  boiling  water,  keep  stirriug  un- 
til thoroughly  boiled  then  let  boil  one  hour  slowly. 

—Mrs    J.  T   Englerth 

Cocoanut  Salad 

One- half  cocoanut,  grated,  two  apples,  pared,  cored,  chopped,  one  cup 
celery,  chopped,  two  tablespoons  onions,  chopped,  one  tablespoon  parsley, 
coarsely  chopped,  three  Chili  peppers.  Mix,  cover  with  two  measures 
French  dressing,  chill, and  serve  in  lettuce  shells  or  in  scooped  out  toma- 
toes. — Chloe  Farney. 


Good  Recipies  are  all  right,  but 

Good  Groceries  are  more  important. 

We  are  headquarters  for  Staple  and  Fancy  Groceries, 
Dry  Goods,  Shoes,  Notions,  Ktc.  Your  patronao^e  is 
solicited  on  the  basis  of  Fair  Treatment,  Reasonable 
Prices  and  Honest  Dealing. 

14th  and  Locust  Sts.,  T  TiJ       IT  77  J7  ^  T   T AT/^ 

MIDDLETOWN,  IND.  J^'    ^^^»     J^EjEj ^J^J^llM  KJ, 


127 


Boiled  Bass,  or  other  Fish 

Put  sufficient  water  iu  pot  to  euable  fisli,  if  ulive,  to  swim  easily.  Add 
one-half  cup  vinegar,  one  teaspoon  salt,  one  onion,  one  dozen  whole  black 
peppers,  one  blade  mace.  Sew  up  fish  in  piece  of  clean  net  or  muslin, 
fitted  to  shape.  Heat  slowly  for  first  half. hour;  then  boil  eight  minutes, 
at  least,  to  pound,  quite  fast.  Unwrap,  and  pour  over  it  cup  of  drawn 
butter,  based  upon  the  li.iuor  in  which  fisli  was  boiled,  with  juice  of  one- 
half  lemon  stirred  into  it.  Selected. 

Jams 

Jams  are  usually  made  with  small  fruits  or  with  chopped  large  fruits; 
they  are  cooked  with  an  equal  weight  of  sugar  till  rich  and  thick,  then  put 
into  tumblers  or  small  jars  and  sealed.  —Selected. 

Fondant  for  Candies 

Take  two  pints  of  granulated  sugar,  one-third  teaspoonful  cream  of 
tartar  and  one  cup  water.  Cook  until  you  can  gather  it  up  into  a  very  soft 
ball  wheu  dropped  in  a  tin  cup  of  cold  water.  Cool  until  it  will  crinkle  on 
top  when  dish  is  tipped  to  one  side.  Stir  until  it  creams,  then  put  on 
dough  board  and  knead  with  the  hands.  Wheu  making  nut,  cocoanut  or 
chocolate  put  them  in  before  stirring  — Mrs.  0.  D.  Sanders. 

Lemon  Jelly- 
Grated  rind  and  juice  of  one  lemon,  two  eggs,  one  spoon    butter,    two 
spoons  boiling  water,  stir  sugar  and  lemon  together  then    add   eggs    butter 
and  water.  — Mrs.  Maggie  Painter. 

Salted  Almonds 

Blanch  half  a  pound  of  almonds  by  pouring  over  them  one  pint  of 
boiling  water;  let  stand  three  minutes.  Drain  and  cover  with  cold  water. 
Remove  the  skins  and  dry  the  almonds  on  a  towel.  Fry  in  hot  fat,  using 
equal  parts  of  butter  and  lard.  Drain  on  brown  paper  and  sprinkle  with 
salt.  — Selected. 

Pork  Sausage 
Take  thirty-two  pounds  of  ground  meat,  six  tablespoonfuls  of  salt,  six 
tablespoonfuls  of  sage,  twelve  tablespoonfuls  of  pepper,    and   eight   table- 
spoonfuls  of  ground  allspice.      Mix  thoroughly.  — S.  E.  B. 


128 


Cheese  Straws 

Roll  paste  oae-fourtli  inch  thick,  sprinkle  one- half  with  grated  cheese, 
to  which  has  been  added  a  few  grains  of  salt  and  cayenne,  fold,  press  edges 
together,  fold  again,  roll  out  one-fourth  inch  thick,  sprinkle  v?ith  cheese 
and  proceed  as  before,  repeat  twice,  cut  in  strips  five  inches  long,  one- 
fourth  inch  wide,  bake  eight  minutes  in  a  hot  oven.  — Fl.  J. 

Plain  Rarebit 

One  half  pound  cheese  cut  fine,  two  tablespoons  butter,  one- fourth 
teaspoon  salt,  a  few  grains  cayenne,  one-half  cup  thin  cream,  two  egg 
yolks,  twelve  zephyrettes  (crackers).  Melt  the  butter,  add  the  cheese,  salt 
and  cayenne.  When  the  cheese  is  nearly  melted,  add  gradually  the  cream 
and  the  egg  yolks  slightly  beaten.      Pour  over  the  crackers. 

—Mary  T    Thorhburg. 

Peanut  Cookies 

One  tablespoon  butter,  two  tablespoons  sugar,  two  tablespoons  milk, 
one  egg,  well  beaten,  one- half  cup  flour,  one-half  level  teaspoon  Rumford 
baking  powder,  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  one-half  cup  finely  chopped  peanuts. 
Cream  the  butter,  add  the  sugar,  milk  and  egg.  Sift  together  thoroughly 
the  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt,  and  add  to  the  mixture,  then  add  the 
peanuts.  Drop  by  teaspoonfuls  on  an  unbuttered  tin  one-half  inch  apart; 
place  one-half  peanut  on  each  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven. 

— Agnes  L. 


We  have  the  Plants,  and  the  Gut  FIOWGfSi     We 

want  yOUf  Patronage we  can  please  you. 

Visit  our  Houses. 


129 


Meringue 
Whites  of  two  eggs,  two  tables()ooul'uls  of  powdered  sugar,  a  few 
drops  of  lemon  juice  or  vanilla.  Beat  the  whites  till  stiff,  add  sugar  grad- 
uall}-,  continue  beating,  add  flavoring  and  spread  on  the  pie,  bake  in  a  slow 
oven  fifteen  minutes.  If  cooked  quickly  and  too  long  the  meringue  is 
tough.  —Selected. 

Jellies 

Use  equal  parts  of  f.ugar  and  drained  fruit  juice.  Mash  and  heat 
berries  till  juice  runs  readil}',  then  turn  into  bags  of  unbleached  muslin  or 
two  thicknesses  of  cheese  cloth  and  let  drip.  Measure  juice  and  sugar. 
Boil  juice  twenty  minutes.  Have  sugar  in  shallow  pan,  heat  through  in 
open  oven.  Add  to  boiling  juice,  boil  up  once,  take  off  fire  and  put  into 
tumblers.  Fruit  like  apples  and  quinces  should  be  chopped  and  covered 
with  water,  then  simmered  till  tender  before  turning  into  jelly- bags. 

— Selected. 

Its  $  $  In  Your  PocKet 

Of  course  you  want  to  spend  your  money 
where  the  purchasing  power  is  the  great- 
est. That's  why  we  insist  on  your  coming 
to  our  store.  Our  expenses  are  reduced  to 
a  minimum,  therefore  we  are  in  a  position 
to  save  you  money  on  Dry  Goods,  Grocer- 
ies. Shoes,  Hardware,  Notions,  etc. 

Highest  Price  paid  for  country  produce, 

N.  S.  Good, 

Honey  CreeK,  Ind. 


130 


Spiced  Fruits 

These  are  also  called  sweet  pickled  fruits.  For  four  pounds  prepared 
fruit  allow  one  pint  vinegar,  two  pounds  brown  sugar,  one-half  cup  whole 
spices — cloves,  a,llspice,  stick  cinnamon  and  cassia-buds.  Tie  spices  in 
thin  muslin  bag,  boil  ten  minutes  with  vinegar  and  sugar.  Skim,  add 
fruit,  cook  till  tender.  Boil  down  syrup,  pour  over  fruit  in  jars,  and  seal. 
If  put  in  stone  pots,  boil  syrup  three  successive  mornings  and  pour  over 
fruit.  Currants,  peaches,  grapes,  peart),  and  berries  may  be  prepared  in 
this  way,  also  ripe  cucumbers,  muskmelons,  and  watermelons. 

— Selected. 

To  Broil  Fish 

Clean,  wash  and  wipe  dry.  Split  so  that  when  laid  flat  the  backbone 
will  be  in  middle,  or  take  the  backbone  out.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and  lay, 
inside  down,  upon  a  buttered  gridiron  over  a  clear  fire  until  it  is  nicely 
colored,  then  turn.  When  done,  put  upon  a  hot  dish,  butter  plentifully, 
and  pepper.      Put  a  hot  cover  over  it  and  send  to  table.       — Selected. 

Creamed  Fish 

Steam  two  pounds  codfish,  break  in  flakes,  removing  bones  and  skin. 
Make  one  pint  of  white  8auce(see  Meat  and  Fish  Sauces  )  Grease  a  hah  iug 
dish,  fill  with  alternate  layers  of  fish  and  sauce,  seasoning  with  sjit,  pepper, 
chopped  parsley,  and  lemon  juice  or  a  few  drops  of  vinegar.  Mix  to- 
gether one  cup  dry  bread  crumbs  and  three  tablespoons  melted  butter; 
spread  over  top  and  brown  in  quick  oven.  This  may  be  varied  by  using 
tomato,  bechamel,  curry,  or  any  other  sauce,  or  by  adding  grated  cheese  or 
sliced  hard-boiled  eggs  to  the  white  sauce;  by  baking  in  shells  or  patty- 
pins  in  place  of  the  deep  dish  or  by  covering  with  mashed  potato  or  biscut 
crust  instead  of  crumbs.  — Selected. 

Broiled  Salt  Mackerel 

Freshen  by  soaking  it  over  night  in  water,  taking  care  that  the  skin 
lies  uppermost.  In  the  morning  dry  it  without  breaking,  cut  off  the  head 
and  tip  of  the  tail,  place  it  between  the  bars  of  a  buttered  fish  gridiron, 
and  broil  to  a  light  brown;  lay  it  on  a  hot  dish,  and  dress  with  a  little 
butter,  pepper,  and  lemon  juice,  vinegar,  or  chopped  pickle. 

— Selected. 


i:5i 


Apple  Snow 

Core,  quarter,  and  steam  three  large,  sour  apples.  Rub  through  sieve, 
cool;  whip  whites  of  three  eggs  to  very  stiff  froth  with  one-half  cup 
powdered  sugar,  gradual!}^  add  apple,  and  whip  long  time  till  white  and 
stiff.      Pile  in  dish,  garnish  with  dots  ot  currant  jelly.         — Selected. 

Pigs  in  Blanket 

Drain  any  number  of  oysters  required  and  throw  them  into  cold  water 
f(jr  a  moment,  then  drain  again.  Wipe  each  oyster  carefully  on  a  soft 
linen  cloth;  slice  some  bacon  as  thin  as  possible,  allowing  a  slice  for  each 
oyster.  Place  a  slice  of  bacon  on  the  palm  of  the  hand,  put  an  oyster  on 
it  and  fold  the  bacon  in  such  a  way  that  the  ends  come  together;  then  run 
an  ordinary  wooden  toothpick  through  both  the  bacon  and  oyster.  Place  a 
tew  at  a  time  in  ti,  hot  skillet,  brown  lirst  on  one  &ide  and  then  on  the  other. 
Serve  hot.  — Selected. 

Spiced  Cherries 

Seed  cberries  and  let  stand  over  night  in  cold  water  to  toughen.  To 
each  gallon  of  the  seeded  fruit,  use  three  piuts  sugar  and  one  pint  vinegar, 
heat  and  pour  over.  Pour  off  the  liquid  and  re-heat  each  morning  for  nine 
mornings.  Put  spices  in  a  bag,  and  heat  with  fruit  on  last  four  mornings. 
Seal,  — Mrs.  0.  D.  Sanders. 

A  Nice  Way  to  Cook  Dried  Peaches 

Clean  and  wash  in  cold  water,  then  pour  boiling  water  over  them  and 
let  stand  ten  minutes,  rub  hard  with  the  hands  then  rinse  in  cold  water, 
cover  with  cold  water  and  cook  slowly  adding  hot  water  as  needed,  add 
sugar  a  few  minutes  before  they  are  done,  a  few  raisins  added  makes  it 
very  nice.  — Mattie  Bates. 

Salted  Cherries 

Select  large,  perfect  fruit  and  remove  the  stems.  Fill  a  one-quart 
fruit  jar  with  cherries,  half  cover  them  with  cold  water,  then  pour  enough 
vinegar  in  the  jar  to  fill;  lastly  add  a  tablespoonful  of  salt.  Seal.  While 
these  cherries  are  easily  prepared,  they  are  delicious,  and  can  be  used  as  a 
substitute  for  olives.  — B.  B,  W. 


132 


A  New  Sandwich 

One-half  cupful  scalded  milk,  one-half  cupful  of  boiling  water,  one- 
half  tablespoonful  of  lard,  one-half  tablespoonful  of  butter,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  molasses,  three-fourths  of  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  half  a 
yeast  cake  dissolved  in  two  tablespoonfuls  of  lukewarm  water,  one- half 
cupful  of  white  flour  and  enough  entire  wheat  flour  to  kne£.d,  and  one  cup- 
ful of  English  walnut  or  pecan  nut  meats  broken  in  pieces.  The  result  is 
more  satisfactory  if  the  nut  meats  are  added  while  kneading  after  the  flrst 
raising.  When  this  bread  is  twenty- four  hours  old,  slice  as  thin  as  possi- 
ble, spread  sparingly  and  evenly  with  creaoied  butter,  and  put  orange 
marmalade  between  slices.  Remove  crusts,  cut  in  triangles  or  any  desired 
shapes,  and  garnish  with  halves  of  nut  meats,  which  need  a  bit  of  butter  on 
their  under  surfaces,  to  keep  them  in  place  To  keep  moist,  pack  the 
same  as  other  sandwiches.  If  orange  marmalade  is  not  {)rocurable,  make 
the  sandwiches  without  it,  and  even  then  you  will  have  a  delicious  novelt}'. 

— Selected, 

An  Original  Chicken  Dressing 

Have  one-quarter  cup  of  lard  in  a  skillet  and  let  boil;  stir  in  sifted 
corn- meal  as  long  as  there  is  enough  lard  to  keep  it  from  burning,  then 
break  up  stale  biscuit  and  add  to  this.  Add  broth  from  the  chicken  suf- 
ficient to  moisten  the  mixture;  break  in  two  eggs.  Let  cool  sufficiently  to 
bear  hands  in  it,  work  out  in  balls,  and  have  ready  one-quarter  cup  of 
butter  in  the  skillet  boiling  hot.  Put  in  the  dressing  and  fry  brown  on 
both  sides,  then  sprinkle  flour  in  the  butter  while  the  dressing  still  remaius 
in  the  skillet  and  pour  in  chicken  broth  till  enough  gravy  is  made  to 
cover  the  dressing.  Use  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  This  is  much  better 
thau  baking  the  dressing  iu  the  chicken,  as  it  dries  out  in  the  baking.  The 
fowl  is  placed  in  the  platter  and  the  dressing  put  around  it. 

— Lena  Moore  Henley. 

Codfish  Balls 

Put  fish  in  cold  water,  set  on  back  of  stove;  when  water  gets  hot,  pour 
ofl"  and  put  on  cold  again  until  fish  is  fresh  enough;  then  pick  it  up.  Boil 
potatoes  and  mash  them;  mix  fish  and  potatoes  together  while  potatoes  are 
hot.  taking  two-thirds  potatoes.  —Selected, 


138 


Broiled  Halibut 
Slices  of  halibut,  salt,  pepper,  butter.      Cut  the  slices  of  fish  about  an 
inch  thick,  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  lay  them  in  melted  butter  one- 
half  hour,  allowing  3  tablespoons  of  butter   to  a   pound   of  fish,    then  roll 
them  in  flour,  and  broil  abuut  twenty  minutes.     Serve  very  hot. 

— Selected. 

Canning  Peas  at  Home 

The  surplus  peas  from  the  garden  can  be  canned  for  the  winter  ic  the 
following  way:  Fill  the  jars  with  the  peas,  then  fill  with  cold  water  and 
lay  on  the  tops  Place  straw  or  boards  in  bottom  of  the  wash  boiler, 
stand  the  jars  on  this,  and  pour  enough  cold  water  in  the  boiler  to  come 
half  way  up  the  jars.  Put  the  boiler  on  the  stove  with  the  lid  tightly 
closed  and  boil  three  hours.  When  the  jars  are  taken  out  see  that  they  are 
full  to  overflowing  and  screw  the  lid  on  tight.  — Selected. 


I  want  to  remind  the  readers  of  this  Book  that  the   best   and 

cheapest  place  to  buy  Notlons,  Ladics  and  Gcnts  Furnlsh- 
ingSi  Stationer yi  Post  Cards,  in  fact  most  anything  you 

want  in  the   Novelty   line   is   at   CaSSada'S    place,     where 

Bargains  are  always  to  be  liad. 

J.  W.  Cassadap 

Middletown,  Ind. 


134 


^bings  Mortb  Iknowing 


Cake  Baking  . 

When  baking  a  delicate  white  cake,  set  a  vessel  of  watei'  in  the  oven, 
it  will  keep  it  from  browning  too  brov^n. 

Tar,  or  Buggy  Grease 

To  remove,  rub  well  with  lard  then  wash  out  with  soap  suds. 

White  Furs,  White  Shawls,  etc. 

Cover  with  corn  meal,  let  stand  for  four  or  five  days,  shake  out,  hang 
in  the  wind,  they  will  look  like  new. 

Croup 
Cover  the  throat  and  chest  well  with  a  cloth  wrung  out  of   cold    water, 
then  wrap  the  child  in  a  blanket  and  keep  warm,  relief  will  come  in    a    few 
minutes.      Powdered  alum,  one  fourth  teaspoonful  in  white  of  egg    is    very 
good  as  it  will  cause  the  phlegm  to  be  thrown  up. 

Iron  Rust 

Get  one-half  ounce  of  oxalic  acid  in  small  pieces,  in  vial  and  keep 
corked,  when  needed  dissolve  one-half  teaspoonful  with  two  or  three  table- 
spoonfuls  of  boiling  water,  and  dip  the  spot  into  it  or  wet  with  rag;  as  soon 
as  the  rust  is  bleached  out,  wash  the  article  right  out  in  clean  water  to  keep 
acid  from  injuring  the  goods.  Applications  of  lemon  juice  and  salt  is 
good,  laying  the  goods  out  in  the  sun,  or  holding  over  the  spout  of  a  boil- 
ing tea-kettle 

Mildew,  to  Remove 

Cover  the  spot  with  soap  and  salt,  that  has  been  mixed  and  wet  just 
enougii  to  spread,  hiy  out  on  the  grass  over  night,  if  not  removed,  repeat 
the  process,  a  sure  thing. 


IH") 


When  Freezing  Ice  Cream 

Pack  and  fill  the  freezer  with  fine  ice  and  sail,  then  pour  in  cold  water 
until  it  runs  out  at  the  drain  in  tne  side  of  the  freezer.  Turn  the  crank  of 
the  freezer  rapidly,  but  not  too  fast,  and  in  five  minutes  or  less  the  cream 
will  be  frozen  and  of  a  fine  grain.  — L.  ]j.  L. 

To  Peel  Oranges 

If  you  will  pour  scalding  water  over  oranges  and  let  them  stand  five 
minutes  you  will  save  time  in  peeling  them.  The  thick  white  inner  skin, 
usually  so  hard  to  get  off,  will  adhere  to  the  peel  and  come  off  with  it, 
leaving  the  fruit  beautifully  clean  and  ready  to  slice. 

To  Remove  Ink  from  Wash  Goods 

Melt  a  piece  of  tallow,  and  plunge  the  ink  spot  in  the  hot  fat,  then 
wash  the  article,  and  all  traces  of  the  ink  will  be  gone.  If  the  article  be 
colored  or  will  not  wash,  drop  melted  wax  on  the  spot,  let  it  uarden,  then 
remove  with  a  knife.  The  ink  will  be  soaked  up  by  the  wax.  If  a  shadow 
of  wax  or  stain  remains,  put  a  piece  of  blotting  paper  over  the  place  and 
press  with  a  hot  iron.  — Mrs.  H.  H. 

Cough  Syrup 

Juice  of  six  lemons,  one  pound  of  strained  honey,  one  ounce  glycerine, 
one  quart  whiskey,  mix,  bottle,  and  take  one  tablespoonful  three  times  a 
day.  — S.  P.  Ledgerwood. 

Kerosene  for  Burns 

Few  people  seem  to  know  the  value  of  kerosene  for  burns.  If  possi- 
ble, immerse  the  burned  part  in  kerosene  for  ten  or  fifteen  minutes;  if  not, 
cover  it  closely  for  some  time  with  a  cotton  cloth  saturated  with  kerosene, 
and  you  will  be  surprised  how  soon  the  soreness  will  leave,  never  to  return. 

--M.  S.  Van  P. 

To  Clean  Tan  Shoes 

A  piece  of  lemon  rubbed  briskly  on  tan  or  brown  shoes  will  effectually 
remove  all  dark  stains,  such  as  those  from  coal,  soot,  etc.  After  cleaning, 
wipe  the  lemon  off  the  shoes,  let  dry,  and  then  polish  with  the  usual 
polish.     The  bright,  new  appearance  of  the  shoes  is  very  gratifying. 

—Mrs.  F.  H.  P. 


136 


Fruit   Stains 

Pour  boiling  water  through  the  article  which  has  been  stained  before  it 
is  put  into  the  regular  wash. 

Stings  of  Bees,  etc. 

Wet  the  place  and  cover  with  soda,  or  wet  with  amonia. 

Bruises 

Cover  with  butter  as  soon  as  possible,  will  prevent  the  bruised  part 
from  coloring. 

Ink  Spots  on  Carpet  or  Clothing 

Wash  as  soon  as  possible  in  milk  (sour  milk  is  best)  and  rinse  in  clear 
water. 

Soot 

"If  soot  falls  on  the  carpet  lay  a  paper  near  it  and  fan  the  soot  onto  it, 
if  the  least  particle  remains  cover  with  bran  or  meal  and  brush  up,  then 
rub  with  dry  cloth. 

Washing  Windows 

Use  a  lablespoonful  of  kerosene  (instead  of  soap)  to  a  gallon  of  water 
and  see  how  the  windows  sparkle. 

To  Clean  Clothing 

To  clean  a  skirt  or  pair  of  pants,  pour  one  gallon  of  gasoline  into  a 
vessel  and  dip  the  garment  up  and  down,  examine  and  if  needed  rub  the 
sailed  places  gently,  hang  up  to  the  clothes  line  and  let  drip,  do  not  wring, 
it  will  not  injure  or  shrink  the  finest  fabric  or  most  dainty  color, — do  not 
attempt  this  work  in  the  house  as  it  is  positively  dangerous. 

Flavoring  Strawberry  Preserves 

When  making  strawberry  preserves  add  a  little  pine-apple  and  it  will 
give  a  delicious  flavor.     Squeeze  the  pine  apple  through  a  cloth. 

— Mrs.  J.  H.  Painter. 

To  Cut  Bread  or  Cake 

When  about  to  cut  new  bread  or  cake,  heat  the  knife  very  hot;  thi^ 
will  prevett  its  crumbling. 


IH' 


Some  Uses  of  Salt 

For  removing  egg  stains  from  silver,  salt  applied  with  a  soft  cloth  will 
act  like  magic. 

If  salt  is  rubbed  on  fruit  stains  when  they  are  fresh  all  trace  of  them 
will  disappear  in  the  washing. 

A  pinch  of  salt  added  to  the  whites  of  eggs  will  cause  them  to  whip  in 
half  the  time  usually  required. 

A  pinch  of  salt  added  to  ground  coffee  just  before  the  cooking  ac- 
centuates the  natural  flavor  of  the  berry  and  gives  "body"  to  the  drink. 

•  Greens  used  for  palads  should  be  thoroughly  rinsed  in  salt  water  to 
dislodge  possible  insects  or  their  eggs  too  small  to  be  seen  by  the  naked 
eye  when  picking  over  the  greens. 

Sprinkle  salt  over  a  dingy  carpet  before  sweeping  and  the  transforma- 
tion wrought  will  convince  the  most  skeptical  of  the  value  of  salt  as  a 
cleanser  all  along  the  line. 

Everybody  Knows,  or  at  least  should  know,  that  nothing  is  so  effectual 
for  putting  out  fire  in  a  burning  chimney? as  salt.  To  kill  weeds  apply 
boiling  hot  salt  water  in  liberal  quantities.  To  remove  grass  from  brick 
walks  spriukle  freely  with  salt  and  let  stand  several  days. 

Renovating  Soap 

Good  for  cleaning  spots  from  clothing,  grease  from  coat  collars,  etc. 
Ivory  soap  one  fourth  pound,  alcohol  one  ounce,  beef  gall  two  ounces,  salt- 
peter one-fourth  ounce,  borax  one-fourth  ounce,  sulphuric  ether  one-fourth 
ounce,  spirits  of  turpentine  one- fourth  ounce,  camphor  gum  three  drams, 
pipe  clay  one  dram,  common  salt  one  small  te^spoonful.  Mix  the  pipe 
clay  into  beefs  gall,  the  camphor  into  the  alcohol,  pulverize,  saltpeter  and 
borax,  after  two  or  three  hours,  slice  the  soap  into  a  porcelain  kettle,  with 
the  gall  mixture  and  place  over  a  slow  fire,  stirring  until  melted,  remove 
from  fire,  add  all  the  other  ingredients,  stir  until  mixed,  put  into  a  glass 
fruit  jar,  as  it  soon  hardens,  keep  lid  screwed  on  tight  as  it  loses  strength 
by  evaporation;  keep  in  a  dark  closet  as  light  injures  it.  To  use,  take  out 
a  tablespoonful,  dissolve  it  in  a  quart  of  boiling  water,  use  as  hot  as  pos- 
sible by  dipping  an  old  brush  or  cloth  in  the  hot  liquid  and  rubbing  the 
soiled  spots,  dry  quickly. 


138 


Preserve  Flowers 

To  preserve  flowers  in  water,    mix    a  little   carbonate  of   soda   in   the 
water,  and  it  will  keep  the  flowers  a  fortnight. 

Table  of  Measutes 

Two  saltspoons  make    one  coffeespoon. 

Two  cotfeespoons  make   one  teaspoon. 

Four  teaspoons  (liquid)  make    one  tablespoon. 

Three  teaspoons  (dry)  make   one  tablespoon. 

Four  tablespoons  (liquid)  make    one  wineglass. 

Two  wineglasses  make     one  gill. 

Two  gills  (^  pint)  make     one  eup. 

Two  cups  make   one   pint. 

Four  cups  make     one  quart.' 

One  cup  butter  (solid)  makes  onehulf  pound. 

One  cup  granulated  sugar  makes  one  half  pound. 

One  round  tablespoon  butter  makes  one  ounce. 

A  dash  of  pepper  is  quarter  of  a  saltspoon. 

Time  for  Cooking 

Loaf  bread  40  to  60  minutes. 
■    Kolls  and  biscuit  10  to  20  minutes. 
Graham  gems  80  minutes. 
Gingerbread  20  to  30  minutes. 
Sponge  cake  45  to  60  minutes. 
Plain  cake  30  to  40  minutes. 
Fruit  cake  2  to  3  hours. 
Cookies  10  to  15  minutes. 
Bread  pudding  1  hour. 
Rice  and  tapioca  1  hour. 
Indian  pudding  2  to  3  hours 
Steamed  pudding  1  to  3  hours. 
Steamed  brown  bread  3  hours. 
Custards  15  to  20  minutes. 
Pie  crust  about  30  minutes. 
Plum  pudding  2  to  3  hours. 


139 


Time  for  Cooking  Vegetables 

Potatoes,  boiled,  1  hour. 
Potatoes,  baked,  1  hour. 
Sweet  Potatoes  f  hour. 
Turnips  2  hours. 
Beets  H  hours. 
Parsnips  1  hour. 
Carrots  1^  hours. 
Cabbage,  boiled.  2  hours. 
Cabbage  fried,  ^  hour. 
Corn  ^  hour. 
String  beans  3  hours. 
Dry  beans,  boiled,  3  hours. 
Dry  beans,  baked,  5  hours. 
Asparagus  ^  hour. 
Green  peas  |^  hour. 

Antidotes  for  Poisons 

First — Send  for  a  physician. 

Second — Induce  vomiting;  by  tickling  throat  with  feather  or  tinger- 
drinking  hot  water  or  strong  mustard  and  water.  Swallow  sweet  oil  or 
whites  of  eggs. 

Acids  are  antidotes  for  Alkalies,  and  vice  versa. 

Special  Poisons  and  Antidotes 

Acids,  Muriatic,  Oxalic,  Acetic,  Suphnric  (Oil  of  Vitriol),  Nitric 
(Aqua  Fortis). — Soap  suds,  magnesia,  lime  water. 

Prussic  Acid — Ammonia  in  water.     Dash  water  in  face. 

Carbolic  Acid — Flour  and  water,  mucilaginous  drinks. 

Alkalies,  Potash,  Lye,  Hartshorn,  Ammonia. — Vinegar  or  lemon  juice 
in  water. 

Arsenic,  Rat  Poison,  Paris  Green. — Milk,  raw  eggs,  sweet  oil,  lime 
water,  flour  and  water. 

Bug  Poison,  Lead,  Saltpetre,  Corrosive  Sublimate,  Sugar  of  Lead, 
Blue  Vitriol. — Whites  of  eggs,  or  milk  in  large  doses. 

Chloroform,  Chloral,  Ether. — Dash  cold  water  on  head  and  chest. 
Artificial  respiration. 


140 


Carbonate  of  Soda,  Copperas,  Cobalt. — Soap  suds  and  mucilaginous 
drinks. 

Iodine,  Antimony,  Tartar  Emetic, — Starcli  and  water  astringent  in- 
fusions.     Strong  tea. 

Mercury  and  its  Salts. — Whites  of  eggs,  milk,  mucilages. 

Opium,  Morphine,  Laudanum,  Paregoric,  Soothing  Powders  or 
Syrups. — Strong  coffee,  hot  bath.      Keep  awake  and  moving  at  any  cost. 

In  Case  of  an  Accident 

Immediately  send  for  a  physician,  while  waiting  for  him  proceed  as 
follows: 

Drowning — Loosen  clothing.  2  Place  patient  face  down  with  liead 
and  shoulders  low.  3  With  Bnger,  clear  mouth  of  foreign  substauci  s  4 
Press  firmly  on  back  ami  sides  of  oLiest  to  expel  water.  5  Draw  tongue 
well  out  of  mouth  and  keep  it  so  by  tying  string  o\er  it  and  under  lower 
jaw,  6  Turn  patient  on  back  with  tightly  rolled  coat  under  shoulders. 
7  Kneel  on  patient's  head,  grasp  arms  below  elbows  and  draw  them  above 
patient's  head  making  the  forearms  touch  ground.  8  Push  the  arms  for- 
ward, cross  them  over  the  lower  part  of  the  chest  and  press  firmly.  9  Re- 
peat these  movements  eighteen  times  a  minute.  12  Every  two  minutes 
turn  patient  on  face  and  press  firmly  on  back  and  sides  of  chest  to  expel 
water.  )  1  Others  should  replace  wet  clotlies  with  dry  ones  and  make  ij^t 
applications  12  Continue  these  measures  at  least  two  hours-  13  WUtn 
patient  begins  to  breathe  give  stioLulant,  hot  drinks,  and  rub  legs  upward, 
vigorously. 

Burns  and  Scalds — Cover  with  Cof)king  Sotla  and  lay  wet  clotnes  over 
it.  White  of  tggs  and  Olive  Oil.  Olive  or  Linse(  d  Oil,  plain,  or  mixed 
with  Chalk  and  Whiting. 

Lightning — Dash  cold  water  over  person  struck 

Sunstroke — Ptcmove  patient  to  shady  place,  apply  ice  (o  head  and 
neck,  s-pouge  body  with  cold  water. 

Mad  r>og  or  Sn.\ke  Bite — Tie  band  above  wound  and  burn  with  iron  at 
while  heat;  or  cut  out  wound,  making  it  bleed  freely  and  then  apply  nitric 
acid. 

Venomous  Insect  Stings,  etc. —  ^pply  weak  A.mmoaia,  Oil,  Salt  water 
or  Iodine. 

Fainting — Place  Hat  on  back;  allow  fresh  air,  and  sprinkle    with  water. 


141 


Tests  of  Deatb — Hold  minor  to  month:  if  living  moisture  will  gtither. 
Push  pin  into  flesh:  if  dead,  the  hole  will  remain;  if  alive,  it  wdl    elose  up. 

Cinders  m  the  Kye— Roll  soft  paper  up  like  a  lamp  lighter  and  wet 
tiie  tip  to  remove,  or  use  a  meiiciue  dropper  to  draw  it  out.  Hub  the  other 
eye. 

Ues  of  Lemons 

Lemon  jniee  and  salt  will  remove  iron  rust. 

Gargle  a  bad  sore  throat  with  a  strong  solution  cf  lemon  juice  and 
water. 

A  hot  lemonade,  taken  before  going  to  bed,  will  cure  a  coid  on  the 
lungs. 

To  keep  lemons  fresh  a  long  time,  invert  over  them  a  glass  dish  that 
flts  closely. 

A  cloth  satui'ated  in  lemon  juice  and  bound  about  a  cut  or  wound  will 
stop  its  bleeding 

A  strong,  unsweetened  lemonade  taken  before  breakfast,  will  prevent 
and  cure  a  bilious  attack. 

Ijemon  juice  is  much  nicer  for  salads  than  vinegar.  This  is  especially 
true  of  fruit  salads. 

Lemon  juice  mixeil  very  thick  with  sugar  will  relieve  that  ticklintr 
cough  that  is  so  annoying. 

For  hoarseness,  beat  up  the  white  of  an    egg,  flavor    with    lemon    and 


When  YOU  are  in  town, 
call  at  the         ^         ^ 


Interurban  Cafe  and  Restaurant 


for  Lunch,  Ice  Cream,  Soda  and  Confections. 
Everything  clean  and  tidy.         ^       ^       J- 


MIDDLETOWN, 
IND. 


WILLARD  SANDERS,  Prop. 


142 


Z7 


the  nian  of  tO'Da^ 

"=cannot  afford   to  slight  the  matter 

of  Good  Clothes if  he  does  he's  a 

looser. 

— Good  Clothes  are  profitable  as  they 
give  a  man  an  entree  into  the 
good  opinion  of  everyone  he  meets. 

— There  is  a  certain  luxury  about  our 
Clothes  that  a  man  fully  appre- 
ciates when  he's  inside  of  them. 

— Our  suits  express  a  certain  style  and 
exclusiveness  in  conservative  as 
well  as  in  extreme  models. 


^ 


t& 


CLOTHIERS,  HATTERS   &   FURINISHERS. 

North  Side  Square  -  -  8th  and  Main  Streets 

ANDERSON,  IND. 

Satisfaction  Guaranteed.      Goods  Exchanged  or 
Money  Refunded. 


H 


143 


sugar  and  take  some  occasionally. 

The  juice  of  half  a  lemon  in  a  cup  of  black  coffee,  without  sugar,  will 
cure  sick  headache. 

Lemon  juice  added  to  fruit  juices  that  do  not  jell  readily,  such  as 
cherry,  strawberries,  etc.,  will  cause  them  to  jell. 

Xo  relieve  rheumatism,  add  lemon  juice  to  milk  until  it  curds;  then 
bind  these  curds  upon  the  swollen  parts. 

Lemon  Extract — Let  stand  the  rind  of  four  grated  lemons  in  half  a 
pint  of  alcohol  for  about  three  weeks.  Drain  off  the  fluid,  bottle  and  cork, 
and  you  have  a  finer  extract  tkan  you  can  buy  at  the  stores. 

Things  to  Remember. 

To  prevent  salt  from  becoming  damp  or  hardening  in  the  shaker  place 
a  few  grains  of  rice  in  shaker  when  filling. 

In  flavoring  puddings,  if  the  milk  is  rich,  lemon  flavoring  is  good; 
but  if  the  milk  is  poor,  vanilla  makes  it  richer. 

To  keep  the  flies  on  the  screen  door  from  coming  inside  rub  the  door 
with  kerosene;  the  flies  do  not  like  the  odor.  A  cloth  saturated  with  kero- 
sene in  a  room  drives  flies  to  the  floor. 

Delicate  blues  and  pinks  can  be  laundered  without  fading,  in  the  fol- 
lowing way:  One  teaspoontul  of  turpentine  put  into  half  a  gallon  of  water. 
Wet  the  goods  in  this  and  hang  in  the  shade  to  dry. 

An  easy  and  convenient  way  to  remove  the  silk  from  sweet  corn  is  to 
use  a  small  vegetable  scrub-brush. 

If  any  member  of  the  family  is  very  sick  at  the  stomach,  beat  up  the 
white  of  an  egg  and  let  him  swallow  it.      It  acts  like  a  charm. 

A  very  valuable  remedy  for  cases  of  proud  flesh,  an  obstinate  out- 
growth of  flesh  from  small  sores,  consists  of  alum.  A  lump  of  alum  is 
placed  upon  a  heated  stove  just  hot  enough  to  enable  it  to  turn  to  dry 
powder.     The  powder  placed  on  the  affected  part   repeatedly   and   covered 


144 


with  a  bandage  can  be  relied  upon  to  effect  a  speedy  and  inexpensive  cure. 
It  has  never  failed  to  cure  when  even  the  services  of  a  physician  were 
vainly  resorted  to.  — A.  A.  H. 

Rice  has  a  finer  flavor  if  washed  in  hot  wa'oer  instead  of  c^ld,  before 
cooking. 

The  smaller  a  roast  of  meat,  the  hotter  should  be  the  oven  at  first,  that 
the  least  possible  amount  of  its  delicate  juices  may  escape. 

Bread  should  never  be  covered  with  a  cloth  when  taken  from  the  oven, 
but  laid  on  the  side  and  allowed  to  become  perfectly  cold;  then  keep  in  a 
closely  covered  tin  box,  without  any  wrappings. 

A  spoonful  of  vinegar  put  into  the  water  in  which  meats  or  fowls  are 
boiled  makes  them  tender. 

When  corks  swell  and  are  two  large  for  a  bottle  throw  them  for  a  fi-w 
minutes  into  a  basin  of  boiling  water.      They  will  then  soften. 

The  best  way  to  freshen  home  made  bread  so  that  it  is  as  good  as  new 
is  to  dip  the  loaf  in  cold  water,  put  it  in  a  pan  and  bake  it  until  it  is  heati'd 
through.  Then  wrap  in  a  damp  cloth,  and  when  cold  it  is  as  good  as  when 
first  baked. 

A  good  bath  for  tired,  swollen  feet  is  to  bathe  the  feet  in  a  bath  with 
alum,  one  ounce;  rock  salt,  two  ounces;  borax,  two  ounces;  using  one  tea- 
spoonful  to  each  quart  of  water.  Bathe  the  feet  in  this  water  every  niglit 
for  a  week. 

If  grease  is  splashed  on  a  stove,  a  little  salt  sprinkled  on  it  prevents 
any  unpleasant  smell. 

A  little  vinegar  kept  boiling  on  the  stove  while  onions  or  cabbage  are 
being  cooked  will  prevent  the  disagreeable  odor  going  through  the  house, 
or  a  small  pinch  of  carbonate  of  soda  in  the  water  preserves  the  color  of 
vegetables  and  lessens  the  unpleasant  odor  of  cabbage  and  onions  when 
cooking 


Hy 


How  to  Cook  a  Husband 


A  good  many  husbands  are  utterly  spoiled  in  the  cooking.  Some 
women  set  them  constantly  in  hot  water;  others  let  them  freeze  by  careless- 
ness anil  indifference.  Some  keep  them  in  a  pickle  all  their  lives.  It  is 
not  reasonable  to  suppose  that  any  husband  can  be  tender  and  appetizing 
treated  in  this  way,  but  they  are  really  delicious  when  properly  prepared. 
In  selecting  your  husband  vou  should  not  be  guided  by  the  silvery  appear- 
ance, as  in  buying  mackerel,  nor  by  the  golden  tint,  as  in  picking  salmon. 
Be  sure  to  select  him  yourself,  as  tastes  differ.  Do  not  go  to  market  for 
him.  The  best  are  always  brought  to  your  door.  But  it  is  far  better  to 
have  none  unless  you  will  patiently  learn  how  to  cook  him. 

A  preserving  kettle  of  tbe  finest  porcelain  is  best;  but  if  you  have 
nothing  but  an  earthen  pipkin,  it  will  do,  with  care.  See  that  the  linen  in 
which  you  wrap  him  is  nicely  washed  and  mended,  with  the  required 
number  of  buttons  and  strings  securely  sew£d  on.  Tie  him  in  the  kettle 
by  a  strong  comfort  cord.  The  duty  cord  is  breakable  and  apt  to  let  him 
fly  out  of  the  kettle  and  become  burnt  and  crusty  on  the  edge.  Of  course 
you  know  that,  like  a  crab  or  lobster,  you  have  to  cook  him  alive.  Set 
him  near  a  clear,  steady  fire  of  love,  neatness  and  cheerfulness.  If  he 
sputters  and  fizzles,  do  not  be  anxious.  Some  do  this  until  they  are  quite 
done.  Add  a  little  sugar  in  the  form  of  what  confectioners  call  kisses,  but 
no  vinegar  or  popper  in  any  account  A  little  spice  will  improve  him,  but 
it  must  be  used  with  judgment.  Do  not  stick  any  sharp  instruments  into 
him  to  see  if  he  is  becoming  tender.  Stir  gently,  watching  the  while  lest 
he  lie  too  flat. and  too  close  to  the  kettle,  and  so  become  flabby. 

If  thus  treated  you  will  find  him  digestible,  agreeing  nicely  with  you 
and  the  children.  He  will  keep  as  long  as  you  like,  unless  you  become 
careless  and  set  him  in  too  cold  a  place. 

— Woman's  Home  Companion, 


146 


PicniG  LuhgIigs 


Ham  Sandwiches 

Cold  Chicken 

Celery 
Deviled  Eggs 

Cold  Soft- Shelled  Crabs 


No.   1. 


Cake 


Jelly  Cake 
Ginger  Snaps 


Hard- Boiled  Eggs 

Bread  and  Butter  Sandwiches 
Apple  Pie 
Buttered  Rolls 

Lettuce  Sandwiches 


No.  2. 


Tongue  Sandwiches  Dill  Pickles 

Fruit  Cake 
Crackers  and   Cheese 
Mince  Pie 

Bread  and  Butter  Sandwiches 
Apple  Tart 
Fried  Egg  Sandwiches  with  Curled  Bacon 
Oranges  Lady  Fingers 


Cold  Veal  Loaf 


141 


Luncteon 


No.  1. 

Decorations — Pink  and  White  Carnations  at  each    Plate.     Pink    Roses 
in  center  liowl. 

Pink  Salad                             Slaw  Cold  Tongue 

Creamed  Potatoes  P'ried  Chicken 

Rye  Bread                           Salmon  Salad  Vienna  Rolls 

Lettuce  Spiced  Cherries 

Peaches                       Mixed  Cakes  Coffee 

Candies  Ice  Cream 


No.  2. 
Decorations  —  Bittersweet  Berries  and  Ferns. 

Bullion  Wafers  Olives 

Oyster  Patties  Shrimp  Salad 

Minced  Ham  Sandwiches 

Fig  Ice  Cream  Angel  Food  Cake 

Salted  Peanuts  Coffee 


No.  3. 
Decorations — Ferns,  Violets. 

Blue  Points  Salted  W^afers 

Slaw  Stuffed  Olives 

Toasted  Bread  and  Creamed  Chicken  Brown  Bread 

Cheese  Straws  Peanut  Sandwiches 

Sliced  Tomatoes  Mayonnaise 

Macaroons  Angel  Food  (^ake  Coffee 


148 


No.  4. 

Bullion 

■ 

Broiled  Chops    • 

Bread  Sticks 

Creamed  Potatoes 

Celery  Salad 

Wafers 

Cheese 

Coffee 


No.    5. 

Hamburg  Sandwich 

Baked  Beans 
Apple  Pie 

Coffee 


(Aid  Society) 
Pickle 

Cooky 


No.  H. 


Cheese  Sandwich 


Fruit  Salad 


Cake 


(Missionary) 
Pickle 

Coffee 


No.  7. 

Creamed  Ham  Sandwich 
Hard  Boiled  Eggs 

Ribbon  Cake 
Ice  Cream 


(Fourth  op  July) 

Celery 
Beet  Pickles 

Ice  Tea 


H9 


Hot  Rolls 

Cheese  Pickles 

Candied  Cherries 
Cookies  (cut  in  shape  ot  hatchet) 


No.  8.        (Washington  Birthday) 
Creamed  Chicken 


Celery 
Coffee 


Orange  Baskets 
Lemon  Ice 

Lady  Fingers 


Reception 


Coffee 


Macaroons 
Angel  Food  Cake 
Ice  Cream 


Chicken  Sandwiches  Stuffed  Olives  Shrimp  Salad 

Cheese  Straws  Salted  Almonds 

Mixed  Cake  Fruit  Coffee 


Strawberry  Sherbet  Candied  Grapes 

Angel  Food  Cake 

Ice  Cream  Salted  Almonds 

Fruit  Cake  Candies 

Coffee 


150 


81ub  LiiiiGbes 


No.  1. 


Nut  Sandwich  Sweet  Bread  and  Cucumber  Salad 

Fancy  Cakes 
Frozen  Fruits  Gingar  Punch 


No.  2. 

Chicken  Salad  Pinoles 

Nasturtium  Sandwiches 
Charlottes  Fancy  Cakes 

Russian  lee  Tea  Coffee 


Sliced  Veal  liOaf 

Cress  Sandwiches 
Olives 
Vanilla  Ice    Cream 

Delicate  Cake 
Strawberries 


No.  8. 

Sliced  Tongue 
Cheese  Sandwiches 
Salted  Peanuts 

Pineapple  Ice 
Cheese  Straws 
Fancy  Cake 
Coffee 


151 


Thanksgiving-  Dinner 


Oyster   Soup  Celery  Chili  Sauce 

Roast  Tarkey  with  Cmnberry  Sauce 

Sage  Dressing  Sweet  Potatoes 

Chicken  Pie  Cold  Slaw 

LuL'ania  Potatoes  Pickle  Baked  Beans 

Pumpkin  Pie  Baked  Apples 

Devil's  Food   Cake 

Tea  Coflfee 


Christmas  Dinner 


Creamed  Tomato    Soup  Mixed  Pickle 

Roast  Turkey  with  Currant  Jelly 

Oyster  Dressing  Pickles  Celery 

Creamed  Chicken  with  Baked  Dumplings 

Mashed  Potatoes  Sweet  Potatoes 

Cold  Slaw  Apple  Sauce  Cheese 

Spiced  Cherries  Pear  Preserves 

Mince  Pie  Pumpkin  Pie 

Cake  Nuts 

Cotfee 


152 


Wedding    Breakfast 


Cantaloupes  Filled  with   Whipped  Ureain 

French  Fried  Pork  Chops  Potato  Chips 

Cottage  Cheese  Omelet  Hot  Rolls 

Orange  Marmalade  Coffee 

Egg  Lily  Salad  Wafers 

Strawberries 


Wedding  Luncheon 


Banana  Ice 

lirown  Bread  and  Butter  Strips 

Creamed  Chicken  Peas 

Asparagus 

Apple  Salad  Cheese  Balls 

Wafers  Olives 

Ice  Cream  Cakes 

Coffee  Mints 


INDEX  OF  ADVERTISEMENTS 


153 


Lion  Store  

Daniels  &  Pickering  Co.   . .  Page 

B.  E.  Goflf  &  Sons  

I.  N.  Marshall   

Seth  H.  Mills  

Scott  Lewis 

Dr.  F.  Pv.  Henshaw 

E.  K.  Sowash 

Joseph  Frye      

Lott's  Department  Store  . . 

Mrs.  Tessa  Harte 

Brown  &  Hewitt 

Charles  H.  Husband 

H.  S.  Hysinger  &  Co 

C.  W.  Swartz 

Bing's  O.  P.  C.  H 

Rochester  Shoe  ^tore  

Middletown  News 
J.  B.  Frazier  . .  . 


Inside  Front  Cover 


7 
11 
16 
26 
30 
34 
38 
42 
46 
49 
49 
49 
53 
54 
57 
57 


Abe's  Misfit Page 

Golden  Rule  Incubator  Co..    " 

Farmers'  State  Bank " 

Miller  Bros " 

57 
59 
64 
70 

M.  T.  Scott  &  Son 
Joe  Fadely  &  Son 
Atlantic  ct  Pacific 
W.  N.  Showalter  . 
B.  L.  Klus  &  Son 

76 
99 

Tea  Co..    " 

110 
122 
125 

Levi  Keesling  .    . 

126 

Stuart  &  Haugh  . 

N.  S.  Good   

J.  W.  Cassada  . 
Schuster  Bros.    . . 

128 
129 
133 
142 

W.  A.  Fox 

153 

.Inside  Back  Cover. 
Outside  Back  Cover. 


WM.  A.  FOXp 

FINERAL  DIRECTOR  r  EMBALMER 

OFFICE  PHONE.  70         :         RESIDENCE  PHONE  83. 

NEW  CASTLE,  INDIANA. 


tW  DON'T  FORGET  TO  READ  THE  INSIDE  OF  THE  BACK  COYER. 


154 


Table  of  Contents 


Honey  Creek  Charch 

Housekeeper's  Alphabet 

''An  Enlarged  Vision" 

"Just  to  Remind  Yon" 

Beverages 

Bread 

Cake 

Confections 

Dessert 

Fish  and  Oysters 

Ices 

Meats  and  Dressings 

Pastry 

Pickles  and  Catsup 

Pudding 

Salad  and  Salad  Dressing 

Soup 

Vegetables 

Miscellaneous 

Things  Worth  Knowing 

Things  to  Remember 

How  to  Cook  a  Husband 

Menus 
Memoranda 


Page 

!         2 

u 

3 

(( 

4  to      G 

ii 

8 

n 

9  to    11 

ki 

12  to    16 

(( 

17  to    49 

a 

50  to    53 

H 

54  to    57 

4( 

58  to    59 

ii 

60  to    64 

li 

65  to    76 

u 

77  to    81 

(k 

82  to    86 

u 

87  to    92 

a 

93  to    99 

a 

100  to  104 

u 

105  to  110 

.( 

111  to  133 

i'> 

134  to  143 

4k 

143  to  144 

(i 

145 

(( 

146  to  152 

U 

153  to  160 

155 


MEMORANDA 


156 


MEMORANDA 


157 


MEMORANDA 


158 


MEMORANDA 


l.')'.! 


MEMORANDA 


160 


MEMORANDA 


r^      -ryfy' 


WHAT  YOU  READ 

and  what  you  think  about  J-  J- 

makes  you  what  you  are.         ^  Jt- 

THE  MIDDLETOWN  NEWS 

is  a  Semi- Weekly  Newspaper,  devoted  to  the 
interests  of  its  readers.  Only  clean,  live  mat- 
ter of  a  strict  moral  tone  is  admitted  for  publi- 
cation. ^  j^  Jt  jk 

T^e  Home  Circle  department 

is  becoming  popular  with  the  wives,  mothers 
and  daughters  of  the  homes.  The  articles  in 
these  columns  are  intended  to  aid  the  readers  in 
their  daily  contact  with  life's  problems.  .^ 

You  Should  Read  It.     $1.25  Per  Year. 


WE   CAN  SAVE  YOU  MONEY  on  All    Magazines. 
Send  Us  Your  List  for  Our  £.stixnate.  ^         ^         ^ 


We  Make  a  Specialty  of  ei^         ^ 

All  Kinds  of  Job  Printing*  *^         d^ 


We  have  something  interestiti]^  for  Societies  tiiat 
comtemplate  tlie  raising  of  funds  to  extend  tiieir 
worli.     WRITS  FOR  PTiRTIGULTlRS. 


THE  NEWS, 

Middletown,  Ind.  B.  R.  INMAN,  Publisher. 


LIBRARY  OF  CONGRESS 


0  011  022  318  3 


X  All  the  year  around  X 


ODD 


Oo<>fll^,f  CEro^d 


^.i]^o»f louts,  §5>hoeiS„ 


:it^        HioHfcs*!  p^km;*:  PAID  if*cif»5  RWiODa^r.ie.  ^A 


t« 


MMdlctowth  Snd. 


,,i..i.U, 


