THE  MAGEE 


Far  Ifcdies 


6  ©ft.  Aft'S 

st.         mmn., :  . 


Pi 


PV6 


T  X 

<:1Mk!  if  TOSHES, 

SciRR  SYMWGES,  ETC., 
Desk  iU>  v  1 

t  H WJf CO M  P A  -  V . 
East  tth  street,. 


UL  MiNfe. 


WOMAN'S  WAYS  TO  HEALTH 

Send  for-  ilea?  ih  Boo  It 

MINNESOTA  VMVl   CO.,  | 
416  New  Y©r&  Lips  Building. 

MINNEAPOLIS,  MlNf$l 


LIBRARY  OF  CONGRESS. 


Tl 


VNDARD  MANUAL 


taries, 


UNITED  STATES  OF  AMERICA. 


|h  public  life  or 


corporate  bodies  is 


REED'S  RULES 


By  HON.  THOMAS  B.  REED, 


Ex-Speaker  of  the  House  of  Representatives. 


"I  commend  the  book  most  highly." 

william  Mckinley, 

President  of  the  United  States. 
"Reasonable,  right,  and  rigid." 

J.  STERLING  MORTON, 

Ex-Secretary  of  Agriculture. 


CLOTH,  75  Cents.  LEATHER,  $1.25. 

RAND,  McNALLY  &  CO.,  Publishers,  CHICAGO. 


Peerless  Steam  Laundry 


TELEPHONE,  428.         74  E.  MICHIGAN  ST., 


Laundry  will  be  gotten  out  while  the  Boats  lay  in  Port,  in  first-class  order  at 
Eastern  Prices.    We  have  an  Agent  at  every  Boat  on  arrival, 
and  Deliver  Promptly  before  Sailing. 


CARLING'S  RESTAURANT 


DULUTH,  MINN. 


WE  DO  THE  WORK  FOR  THE 
NORTHERN  STEAMSHIP  COMPANY. 


4 


H.  A.  BLUME,  Proprietor. 


...AND... 


OYSTER  HOUSE. 


FINEST  IN  THE 


**    347-349  Robert  Street, 


NORTHWEST. 


ST.  PAUL,  MINN. 


Carriages,  H.  C.  KENDALL'S    Telephone  No.  60 


Coupes, 
Victorias, 
and 

all  kinds  of 
Fine 

Light  Livery. 


DULUTH 
0A\NIBUS 
TRANSFER 
LINE. 


Open 
Day  and 
Night 
No.  20 

Second  Ave.  West, 

DULUTH,  MINN. 


St.  Louti  ZioteL...  puluth,  mm. 


UNIVERSALLY  POPULAR. 


OUR  CHEF'S 


BEST  BECEIPTS 


A  PRACTICAL  COOK  BOOK 

FOR 

PEOPLE  WHO  LIKE  GOOD  THINGS  TO  EAT. 


CHICAGO  AND  NEW  YORK: 

BAND,  McNALLY  &  COMPANY, 

PRINTERS. 


SECONH  COPY 


38211 

Copyright,  1899,  ^>Y  Rand  McNally  &  Co. 

%6e*'"  ^eceiveo. 


^^piY  or  coJv>^v 


INTRODUCTORY 


'The  receipts  offered  in  the  following  pages 
were  gathered  from  the  practical  experience 
of  good  cooks.  Every  receipt  has  been  used 
many  times,  and  the  proportions  and  method 
of  preparation,  if  carefully  followed,  will 
always  produce  good  results.  Many  of  the 
best  receipts  are  not  to  be  found  in  any  other 
book  of  receipts. 


OUR  CHEFS  BEST  RECEIPTS 


SOUPS 


CHAPTER  I 

"Let  thine  eye  be  thy  cook." 

— Henry  V. 

Bouillon 


1  tablespoonful  of  butter 
1  bay  leaf 

1  stalk  of  celery 

2  slices  of  carrot 

Shell  and  white  of  1  egg 


H  lbs  of  finely  chopped  round 

beef 
%  onion,  sliced 
3  or  4  cloves 
2  sprigs  of  parsley 


Melt  butter  in  a  kettle,  add  the  onion  and  cook  until 
thoroughly  brown,  when  add  the  beef  and  other  ingredients 
and  one  quart  of  cold  water.  Put  on  the  back  of  stove  well 
covered,  and  let  simmer  gently  for  three  hours.  Strain, 
return  to  the  kettle,  and  bring  to  a  boil.  Beat  the  white  of 
egg  with  ?  cup  cold  water.  Crush  the  shell  and  add  to  the 
egg.  Add  this  to  the  boiling  bouillon.  Let  boil  a  minute 
and  set  on  back  of  stove  to  settle.  Strain  through  a  cheese 
cloth  wrung  out  of  cold  water.  — From  Table  Talk. 


Schiller  Cigar  Co. 


GOOD  CIGARS 


326  West  Superior  Street,  DULUTH,  MINN. 

(5) 


6 


OUR  CHEF'S  BEST  RECEIPTS. 


Bouillon 

1  soup  bone  1  small  knuckle  veal 

1  tablespoon  sugar  1  stalk  celery 

2  sprigs  parsley  1  blade  mace 

4  cloves  \  teaspoon  kitchen  boquet 

2  lbs.  soup  meat  4  quarts  water 

2  slices  onions  2  slices  turnip 

1  slice  carrot  1  small  bay  leaf 

4  peppercorns  \  lemon 

Wipe  the  meat,  chop  fine,  add  cold  water,  let  stand  half 
an  hour,  simmer  slowly  five  hours — never  allow  it  to  boil. 
Chop  vegetables.  Brown  the  sugar,  add  onion  and  stir  until 
brown.  Add  vegetables  and  seasoning  to  soup,  simmer 
one  hour  longer,  strain,  cool,  remove  fat.  Re-heat,  but  before 
it  boils  stir  in  the  whites  of  two  eggs,  slightly  beaten.  Bring 
to  a  boil,  strain  through  napkin,  salt  to  taste,  serve  in  cups 
with  half  a  thin  slice  of  lemon  or  small  spray  of  parsley  in 
each  cup.  A  wine  glass  of  sherry  may  be  added  if  that  flavor 
is  liked. — E.  L. 

Amber  Soup 

1  qt.  of  waier  to  1  bay  leaf 

1  lb.  of  beef — the  round  of  steak  3  cloves 

6  peppercorns  6  allspice 

1  cup  of  the  raw  meat,  browned  1  gill  of  finely  chopped  onions, 

turnips  and  carrots  and 

celery. 

Let  simmer  4  hours,  then  put  in  the  vegetables  and  cook 
one  hour  more.    Strain  and  clear  with  the  white  of  one  egg. 

To  make  it  the  amber  color,  one  cup  of  the  meat  must  be 
browned.  — Kate. 


Ok  D)ercbant$  fiotel 


EUROPEAN  PLAN 

Rates,  50c.  and  upward. 

WM.  MEINHARDT,  Mgr.  Cor.  Superior  St.  and  2d  Ave.  West,  DULUTH,  MINN. 


OUR  CHEF'S  BEST  RECEIPTS. 


7 


» 


»TI 


105  WEST  SUPERIOR  STREET 
DULUTH,  MINN. 

Telephone  No.  344. 


Tourists  will  find 
Headquarters  here  for 

Home-cooked  Meals.... 

Ice  Cream, 

Ice  Cream  Soda, 

or  a  box  of 

Lownevs  Chocolates 


Bean  Soup 

1  small  beef  soup -bone  1  qt.  beans,  soaked  over  night 

4  medium  sized  onions  2  heads  of  celery 

Salt  and  pepper 

Simmer  all  together  for  five  hours.  Strain  through  coarse 
sieve.    Return  to  the  stove  until  hot  and  serve. 

Celery  Soup 


1  pt.  boiling  water 
2^  cups  milk 
3  tablespoons  butter 
Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 


3   cups  celery  (cut  in  ^--in. 

pieces) 
1  slice  onion 
\  cup  flour 


Wash  and  scrape  celery  before  cutting  in  pieces,  cook  in 
boiling  water  until  soft,  rub  through  a  sieve,  scald  milk  with 
the  onion,  remove  onion,  and  add  milk  to  celery.  Bind  with 
butter  and  flour  cooked  together.  Season  with  salt  and 
pepper.  Outer  and  old  stalks  of  celery  can  be  utilized  for 
soup.     .  — E.  V.  E. 

Corn  Soup 

1  can  corn  2  tablespoons  butter 

3  pints  milk  1  tablespoon  flour 

Boil  the  milk  for  several  minutes,  strain,  add  the  flour  and 
butter  rubbed  together,  cook  fifteen  minutes.  Just  before 
serving  beat  one  egg  light  and  stir  in.  Season  with  pepper 
and  salt.  — Mrs.  Agnew. 


OUR   CHEF'S  BEST  RECEIPTS. 


Cream  of  Spinach 

2  qts.  spinach  2  tablespoons,  scant,  butter 

1  qt.  milk  2  heaping  tablespoons  flour 

1  slice  of  onion  2  teaspoons  salt 

^  small  bay  leaf  \  saltspoon  pepper 

Cook  spinach  with  half  cup  of  water  for  ten  minutes; 
drain  off  water ;  chop  spinach  very  fine.  Make  a  white  sauce 
by  cooking  together  the  flour  and  butter  and  stirring  them 
into  the  hot  milk  to  which  the  onion  and  bay  leaf  have  been 
added.  Stir  in  the  chopped  spinach  and  water,  cook  two 
minutes,  strain  through  coarse  sieve  and  serve.  The  onion  and 
bay  leaf  may  be  omitted  and  must  be  used  sparingly  if  at  all. 

Cream  Pea  soup  is  made  by  using  one  quart  of  green  peas 
boiled  and  rubbed  through  a  strainer,  in  the  place  of  the 
spinach.  — E.  L. 

Mock  Turtle  Soup 

Boil  a  soup-bone,  or  the  remains  of  a  roast,  with  an  onion 
cut  small,  for  several  hours.  Let  it  stand  till  cold,  and  take 
off  the  grease.  When  you  wish  to  use  it,  put  the  soup  on  the 
fire,  with  the  addition  of  spices  to  taste,  cinnamon,  cloves  and 
allspice,  a  little  salt,  a  small  piece  of  red  pepper,  and  some 
tomato  catsup.  Stir  in  browned  flour,  previously  mixed 
smooth  with  cold  water,  to  give  the  proper  consistency,  and 
let  it  boil  a  few  minutes.  Have  small  pieces  of  the  meat  in 
the  tureen,  and  pour  on  the  soup.  — Miss  Belknap. 


Western 


Land 


Company 


194  AND  196  EAST  THIRD 
STREET, 

ST.  PAUL,  MINN. 


Buy  and  Sell  Choice  Farm  Lands.     Special  Attention  Given  to 
Farm  Mortgage  Loans. 


OUR  CHEF'S  BEST  RECEIPTS. 


9 


Mock  Chicken  Soup 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  l\  pint  of  beef  stock 

2  tablespoonfuls  of  cream  1  egg 

Butter  size  of  an  egg 

Put  butter  and  flour  in  a  sauce  pan,  stir  until  smooth,  add 
stock  little  by  little.  Just  before  taking  from  the  fire  add 
the  cream  and  egg,  well  beaten  together.  Salt  and  pepper  to 
taste. 

Onion  Soup 

6  large  onions  2  tablespoons  butter 

1  quart  soup  stock  Salt  and  pepper 

f  pint  cream 

Fry  onions  in  the  butter,  but  do  not  brown.  Add  the 
stock,  and  boil  10  minutes,  season,  and  just  before  serving 
add  the  cream.  — Mrs.  Oliver  Crosby. 

Tomato  Soup 

1  can  tomatoes  1  quart  water 

1  small  onion  8  or  10  cloves,  whole 

Salt  and  pepper 

Boil  until  well  seasoned,  thicken  with  1  teaspoon  corn- 
starch, and  strain.  — Mrs.  Oliver  Crosby. 

Tomato  Soup 

1  qt.  of  tomatoes  fresh  or  canned  1  qt.  of  water 

Butter  size  of  an  egg  y  cup  of  rice,  well  cooked 

Salt  and  pepper 

Cook  tomatoes  until  soft,  then  strain.  Then  add  season- 
ing and  rice. 

ill  T©  E#T^.?^SS,„t 


321-325  Robert  St.,  St.  Paul,  Minn.  J.  W.  LA  B/UJ,  Prop. 


10 


OCR  CHEF  S  BEST  RECEIPTS. 


Tomato  Soup 

1  qt.  of  milk  1  qt.  tomatoes 

A  little  cayenne  Butter  size  of  a  walnut 

Salt  and  pepper  rolled  crackers    A  little  soda  in  the  boiling 

milk  .  —Fannie. 


Cream  of  Tomato  Soup 

\  can  tomatoes  1  qt.  milk 

2  scant  tablespoons  butter  2  heaping  tablespoons  flour 

1  teaspoonf  til  salt  \  saltspoonf  til  pepper 
\  saltspoonful  soda 

Cook  tomatoes  until  quite  soft.  Heat  milk  in  double 
boiler,  cook  butter  and  flour  together,  add  a  little  hot  milk 
and  stir  well  into  the  remainder  of  the  milk. 

When  the  thickened  milk  has  boiled  ten  minutes,  season 
the  tomatoes,  add  soda,  strain  them  into  the  milk  and  serve 
at  once.  ■ — E.  L. 

Soup 

For  Scotch  egg  soup,  two  quarts  of  milk,  into  which  slice 
an  onion  (and  if  the  milk  is  over  a  day  old  as  much  baking 
soda  as  will  half  cover  a  dime  may  be  added) ;  boil  till  the 
onion  is  tender.  Mix  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter  and  two 
medium  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  into  a  paste,  which  stir  into 
the  soup  until  it  dissolves  smoothly  and  the  soup  boils ;  season 
with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  salt  and  half  a  saltspoonful  of 
pepper.  Poach  as  many  eggs  as  there  are  persons,  drop  them 
nto  the  soup  after  it  is  in  the  tureen.       — Ethel  Selkirk. 


5    fT    BOYQE  DRUGG,ST 

335  Superior  Street  w„  duluth,  minn. 


I 


OUR  CHEF'S  BEST  RECEIPTS. 


11 


-El 


TRY  US,  YOU  WILL  LIKE  US. 


Turns  out  the  Whitest, 
Cleanest,  and  Best  Laun- 
dry Work  in  America. 


Shirts,  Collars,  and  Cuffs 
have  a  Soft.  Flexible  Fin- 
ish, with  No  Saw  Edges. 


Sixth  and  John  Streets,  St.  Paul,  Minn. 


FISH 


CHAPTEE  II 

"Fish  for  fasting  days  and  flesh  for  holidays." 

— Pericles. 

Baked  Whitefish 

After  the  fish  has  been  well  cleaned  and  washed,  open 
down  the  back,  take  ont  the  back  bone,  being  careful  not  to 
remove  any  fat  or  meat  with  the  bone.  Wipe  dry.  Have 
lard  in  the  pan  heated  hot  as  for  frying.  Flour  the  skin  and 
place  skin  side  down.  Bake  three-fourths  of  an  hour  in  hot 
oven.  When  nearly  clone  sprinkle  with  white  pepper  and  salt 
and  some  melted  butter  to  help  brown  it.  Slip  the  whole 
fish  in  a  hot  platter  and  serve. 

Codfish  Balls 

1  cup  codfish  2  cups  potato 

Butter  \  size  of  egg  1^  eggs 

Beat  very  light,  if  too  thin  acid  the  other  one  half  egg. 
Drop  by  spoonful  in  hot  lard.  — Mrs.  Kelliher. 

2 


12 


OUR  CHEF'S  BEST  RECEIPTS. 


C,  f%  .  It's  Purer 

rescent  grand  gw^er 

^a^rake    Cmmivy  Butter 

butter  churned   u<^  

JEscalloped  Salmon 

1  can  salmon  2  eggs 

2  tablespoons  melted  butter     1  teacup  fine  cracker  crumbs 
Salt  and  pepper 

Mince  fish  fine  with  a  fork.  Stir  in  butter,  season,  stir  in 
eggs,  then  crumbs.  Add  milk  to  the  consistency  of  mush. 
Bake  in  buttered  dish,  half  hour. 

Sance 

One  cup  milk  brought  to  boil,  thicken  with  one  teaspoon 
cornstarch.  Add  liquor  from  salmon  and  one  beaten  egg. 
Stir  carefully,  just  boil  up.  — Mrs.  Oliver  Crosby. 

Fisli  Balls  (Very  Fine) 
1  pint  of  raw  potatoes  1  cup  of  flaked  codfish 

Cut  the  potatoes  into  pieces  and  boil  with  the  fish  until 
the  potatoes  are  tender ;  drain  off  the  water  and  mash  with  a 
perforated  potato  masher;  beating  them  thoroughly.  Add: 
1  tablespoon  of  butter  1  egg 

A  shake  of  cayenne  pepper 

Beat  again  thoroughly  till  fine  and  smooth  as  velvet. 
Shape  with  a  spoon  into  balls,  place  in  a  frying  basket  which 
has  been  dipped  into  hot  lard  to  prevent  them  from  sticking 
to  the  basket.  Don't  let  them  touch  each  other.  Have  the 
fat  so  hot  that  the  bit  of  bread  will  brown  while  you  are 
counting  forty.  Plunge  the  basket  in  and  remove  as  soon  as 
balls  are  brown.  Shake  the  basket  lightly,  to  drain  off  the 
fat,  and  put  on  brown  paper  till  all  are  fried. 

— Lilian  Grant  Caldwell. 


OUR  CHEF'S  BEST  RECEIPTS. 


13 


Fish  Turbot 

Two  pounds  of  whitefish,  steam  till  tender,  remove  the 
bones,  pick  up  fine,  and  season  with  pepper  and  salt. 

Dressing 

1  pint  of  milk  \  pound  of  flour 

\  pound  of  butter  2  eggs 

Heat  the  milk,  thicken  with  the  flour.  When  cool  add 
the  eggs  and  butter.  Season  with  a  very  little  onion  and 
thyme.  Put  in  a  baking  dish  a  layer  of  fish,  then  of  dressing, 
till  full.  Cover  the  top  with  bread  ciumbs  and  bake  half  an 
hour.  —Mrs.  F.  I.  Whitney. 

Finnan  Hackly 

One-half  a  fish  picked  up  and  braised  in  butter.  Add  1 
cupful  of  cream,  3  hard  boiled  eggs,  chopped,  yolk  of  1  raw 
egg,  1  teaspoonf nl  of  grated  Edam  cheese,  1  tablespoonful  of 
flour.    Season  to  taste  and  cook  three  or  four  minutes. 


14 


OUR  CHEF'S  BEST  RECEIPTS. 


Deere  Vehicles  arc  All  Right 


Steel  Corner  Bodies,  w       w  Spring  Cushions. 

ASK  YOUR  DEALER  FOR  OUR  CATALOGUE, 
OR  WRITE  US  AND  WE  WILL  SEND  ONE... 

DEERE  &  WEBBER  CO.,  Minneapolis,  Minn. 


Lobster  Xewburg 

1  lobster,  weighing  about  four    4  tablespoons  of  butter 

pounds  2  tablespoons  of  brandy 

2  tablespoons  of  sherry  2  teaspoons  of  salt 
4;  teaspoon  of  pepper  %  pint  of  cream 

4  eggs,  yolks  Slight  grating  of  nutmeg 

Cut  the  lobster  into  small  pieces,  heat  the  butter  in  a  fry- 
ing pan.  When  hot  put  in  the  lobster,  cook  slowly  for 
fiye  minutes,  then  add  the  salt,  pepper,  sherry,  brandy  and 
nutmeg  and  simmer  five  minutes  longer.  Meanwhile  beat 
the  yolks  of  eggs  well  and  add  the  cream  to  them.  Pour  this 
over  the  cooked  mixture  and  stir  constantly  for  one  minute 
and  a  half.    Serve  immediately. 

Special  care  must  be  taken  to  stir  the  mixture  constantly 
after  the  cream  and  eggs  are  added. 

— Mrs.  Woodford,  Detroit,  Mich. 


OUR  CHEF'S  BEST  RECEIPTS. 


15 


Mackerel  Balls 

Soak  a  mackerel  over  night.  In  the  morning  pour  cold 
water  over  it  and  let  it  just  come  to  the  boiling  point.  Shred 
it  carefully,  rejecting  all  skin  and  bones.  Add  an  equal 
quantity  of  cold  mashed  potatoes,  2  well  beaten  eggs.  Season 
with  pepper  and  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice.  Make  into 
small  balls,  and  fry  in  very  hot,  deep  lard. 

Salmon  Loaf 

1  can  salmon  4  eggs,  beaten  light 

4  tablespoons  butter,  melted      \  cup  bread  or  cracker  crumbs 

Season  with  salt,  pepper  and  parsley.  Chop  the  fish  fine, 
then  rub  the  butter  in  until  smooth.  Beat  the  crumbs  with 
the  eggs  and  work  all  together. 

Steam  in  a  buttered  mould  one  hour. 

Sauce 

1  cup  milk  heated  to  a  boil,    1  teaspoon  catsup 

thicken  with  1  pinch  cayenne  pepper 

1  tablespoon  of  cornstarch,  the  liquor  of  salmon  (add  a  little 
butter  if  this  is  not  rich  enough) 

Put  the  egg  in  last  and  boil  one  minute. 

—Miss  M.  S.  Gilbert. 


13.  POOTH  Sf  C®. 

->* 

"Oval  Brand" 

OYSTERS,  FISH,  and  CANNED  GOODS 


60  EAST  THIRD  STREET,  ST.  PAUL. 


16 


OUR  CHEF'S  BEST  RECEIPTS. 


1  can  salmon 


Salmon  Loaf 

3  eggs 


Drain  and  pick  up  salmon,  season  with  pepper,  beat  eggs 
very  light  and  stir  with  salmon.  Put  in  a  buttered  dish  and 
bake  in  a  pan  of  boiling  water  one  half  hour  in  moderate 
oven. 

Serve  with  the  following  sauce : 


Heat  1  cup  milk,  add  1  tablespoon  cornstarch  stirred  into 
1  tablespoon  liquor  from  salmon,  1  tablespoon  butter,  4  tea- 
spoons tomato  catsup,  1  beaten  egg,  red  pepper  and  salt. 
Beat  well,  and  add  to  the  milk.    .Cook  until  like  cream. 


Salt  and  pepper 

Melt  the  butter,  stir  in  the  flour,  then  add  gradually  the 
milk,  season  and  add  the  salmon  picked  up  in  pieces.  Cook 
about  10  minutes.  Arrange  mashed  potatoes  in  a  circle  on  a 
hot  dish.  Pour  the  prepared  fish  into  the  center.  Garnish 
with  parsley,  and  serve  at  once. 


Sauce 


Serve  hot. 


— Mrs.  F.  B.  Jerrard,  Superior. 


1  can  of  salmon 

2  tablespoons  of  butter 


Walled  Salmon 

1  pint  of  milk 
r  tablespoons  of  flour 


Miss  A.  H.  G.,  Ypsilanti. 


A  PURE.... 


USED  EXCLUSIVELY  IN  THE 

GREAT  NORTHERN 

RAILWAY  COMPANY'S  SERVICE. 


C.  R.  GROFF  COMPANY 


ST.  PAUL,  MINN. 


MANUFACTURED  BY 


OUR  CHEF'S  BEST  RECEIPTS. 


17 


Shrimp  Croquettes 

Remove  one  cau  of  shrimps  from  the  can.  Throw  them 
into  cold  water  and  wash  rapidly  but  carefully;  drain  well 
and  then  chop  fine  with  a  silver  knife.  Place  over  the  fire  in 
a  double  boiler  half  a  pint  of  milk ;  rub  together  one  rounidng 
tablespoonful  of  butter  and  three  of  flour ;  add  to  the  boiling- 
milk  and  stir  to  a  thick  paste.  Add  to  the  shrimps  a  level 
teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  level  tablespoonful  of  parsley,  a  table- 
spoonful  of  lemon  juice,  and  a  little  cayenne  pepper.  Now 
add  the  sauce,  mix  well,  spread  out  on  a  platter  and  set  on 
ice  until  very  cold.  When  cold,  form  into  cylinder -shaped 
croquettes,  roll  in  fine  bread  crumbs,  cover  with  egg  and  roll 
again  in  coarser  bread  crumbs.  Fry,  three  at  a  time  in  a 
frying  basket  in  very  hot  lard,  until  a  nice  brown.  Place  on 
soft,  brown  paper  to  drain  and  serve  hot,  garnished  with 
parsley.  — G-rt.  Nor.  S.  S. 


Are  recommended  by  the  best  physicians  as  a  positive 
cure  for  Rheumatism,  Neuralgia,  La  Grippe, 
Colds,  Liver,  Skin,  Obesity,  and  Ividuey 

Troubles.  Gives  beautiful  complexion,  soothes  the 
nerves,  and  prevents  sickness. 

The  Robinson  Cabinet  is  the  ONLY  genuine 
FOLDING  CABINET  with  door.  It  folds  like  a  screen 
in  a  six-inch  space.  Spurious  imitations  crush  together 
and  ruin  the  goods.  The  Robinson  Cabinet 
opens  at  the  top  to  cool  off",  others  do  not. 
There  are  over  100,000  people  using  Bath  cabinets  in 
the  United  States  to-day,  that  have  been  purchased  in 
the  last  three  years.  "We  have  opened  an  office  in  every 
prominent  city,where  our  Cabinet  canbesi'en  and  pur- 
chased—this protects  people  from  being  misled  by 
advertisements.  We  have  a  t  onrist's  style  for  travelers; 
takes  small  space,  and  can  be  put  in  a  grip  or  trunk. 

AWARDED  FIRST  PREMIUM  AT  OMAHA  EXPOSITION. 

"We  guarantee  our  Cabinet  for  twenty  years.  Sample  of  goods,  circulars,  and  1,000 
letters  from  delighted  patrons,  sent  free.  Every  ailment  can  be  cured  or  greatly  benefited 
by  the  bath.  We  handle  all  kinds  of  Hygienic  Appliances.  PRICES  of  CABINETS  RANGE 
FROM  W3.50  TO  $12.50.  Large  commission  to  COO  I)  AGEXTS.  We  furnish  capital. 
\Y  rite  to-day  for  large  book  giving  full  description  of  six  different  styles. 

H.  ROBINSON  THERMAL  BATH  CO.,  7 1 3-72 1  Jefferson  St.,  Toledo,0hio. 


OPEN. 


18 


OUR  CHEF'S  BEST  RECEIPTS. 


OYSTERS 


Creamed  Oyster  for  Chafing  Dish 

1  tablespoon  butter  1  level  tablespoon  flour 

1  cup  sweet  cream  1  egg 

1  pint  of  washed  oysters  Salt  and  pepjjer 

Heat  the  chafing  dish  and  put  in  the  butter  to  melt ;  when 
melted,  cream  into  it  the  flour,  stirring  until  perfectly  smooth. 
Beat  the  egg  light  and  stir  into  the  cream.  Add  this  to  the 
creamed  butter  and  flour  and  when  hot  stir  in  the  oysters. 

When  the  oysters  curl,  serve  on  toast. 

— Mrs.  Moses  Folsom. 

Escalloped  Oysters 

1  quart  oysters  1  quart  cracker  crumbs 

1  pint  milk  \  cup  of  melted  butter 

Salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Mix  all  together,  put  in  a 
buttered  baking  dish.    Bake  about  f  of  an  hour. 

— Mrs.  Towner,  Ypsilanti,  Mich. 


THOSJ-  STOREY — 

....PRACTICAI  

taxidermist 

Birds  and  Animals  Mounted 
in  Life-like  A  ttitude.  M oose 
and  Deer  Heads  Always  on 
Hand— 

Fur  Rugs  a  Specialty 

227  E.  SUPERIOR  ST., 
Duluth,  Minn. 


OUR  CHEF'S  BEST  RECEIPTS. 


19 


Fried  Oysters 

Drain  oysters  well,  and  lay  upon  clean  cloth  to  absorb 
most  of  moisture. 

Prepare  cracker  crumbs  by  rolling  fine,  adding  salt  and  a 
dasli  of  cayenne  pepper  for  seasoning. 

First  roll  oyster  in  cracker  crumbs,  then  in  beaten  egg,  to 
which  has  been  added  2  tablespoonfuls  of  oyster  liquor  to 
each  egg,  then  in  cracker  crumbs  last,  thoroughly  covering 
the  oyster.  Drop  in  a  basket  in  boiling  lard.  Cook  till 
light  brown,  and  place  upon  brown  paper  for  few  seconds 
before  putting  upon  heated  platter,  and  serve  at  once. 

— Lilian  Grant  Caldwell. 

Fried  Oysters 

Wipe  large  oysters  dry,  dip  in  egg,  then  fine  cracker 
crumbs,  season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  fry  in  butter  over 
a  slow  fire  ten  minutes. 

Oyster  Loaf 

Out  the  top  from  a  loaf  of  bread.  Dig  out  the  center,  fill 
with  a  layer  of  oysters  cooked  in  a  little  cream  and  seasoned, 
and  a  layer  of  crumbs  until  full.  Cover  with  the  crust  and 
put  in  oven  a  few  minutes. 

 m>  

If  you  are  out  for  Health  or  Pleasure,   m  ■     m  m  m  m 
take  a  trip  to  TOWER  or  ELY,  over  the 

IDxyiOT  if  \mm  Kmm  it  K„ 

Good  Fishing,  Beautiful  Lakes,  No  Hay  Fever. 
Guides,  Canoes,  and  Outfits  furnished  on 
application  at  reasonable  rates. 

Address  A.  H.  VIELE,  General  Passenger  Agent  DULUTH,  MINN. 

 TPs " 


20 


OUR   CHEF'S  BEST  RECEIPTS. 


UPHOLSTERED  FURNITURE,  CARPET  CLEANING, 

MATTRESSES,  CARPETS.  WINDOW  SHADES. 

Telephone  875. 

Schroeder  &  Dickinson 

URH O  LS TERERS 
76  EAST  SIXTH  STREET.  ST,  PAUL,  MlNN. 

Oyster  Croquettes 

1  quart  oysters  4  tablespoons  cream 

4  tablespoons  oyster  liquor  1  tablespoon  butter 
Yolk  of  2  eggs  2  tablespoons  flour 

1  tablespoon  chopped  parsley 
Season  well.  Drain  and  chop  tine  the  oysters.  Eub  the 
butter  and  flour  together  in  a  hot  spider,  add  cream  and 
liquor,  then  eggs.  Cook  a  minute  and  take  from  fire  and 
add  oysters,  parsley  and  seasoning.  When  cold,  form  into 
croquettes,  roll  in  egg  and  cracker  crumbs.  Fry  in  wire 
basket  in  hot  lard.  — Mrs.  Newcomb. 

Oyster  Salad 

One  quart  of  oysters  steamed  until  plump.  Throw  into  cold 
water.  Chop  4  heads  of  celery.  Cut  oysters  in  half,  salt 
and  mix  together. 

Dressing 

Beat  2  eggs  well,  add  1  teaspoon  of  mixed  mustard,  1  tea- 
spoon of  cornstarch,  ^  cup  good  vinegar,  little  salt  and  pepper 
(red). 

Cook  over  steam  until  thick,  add  a  piece  of  butter  size  of 
an  egg,  1  wineglass  of  sweet  cream  when  cold. 

To  Fry  Oysters  in  Batter 

4  eggs  1  quart  oysters 

4  tablespoons  milk  2  tablespoons  flour 

Drain  oysters  in  colander  2  hours.  Put  a  little  flour  in  a 
dish  and  mix  with  pepper  and  salt.  Rub  the  oysters  well 
into  it  before  dipping  into  the  batl  er.  Fry  in  a  wire  basket 
in  deep  lard.  — Mrs.  L.  Barbour,  Detroit. 


I 


OUR  CHEF'S  BEST  RECEIPTS. 


21 


MEAT 


CHAPTEK  III 

"And  who  abstains  from  meat  that  is  not  gaunt?" 

— Richard  II. 

Baked  Pork  Tenderloin 

Split  down  one  side  a  large  tenderloin.  Pound  it  out  flat, 
fill  with  a  nice  bread  dressing  and  sew  up  and  bake.  Season 
well  with  pepper,  salt,  butter  and  sage. 

Beef  Loaf 

4  pounds  of  beef  (the  round)    5  eggs 

chopped  fine  6  small  crackers 

4  tablespoons  butter  Pepper  and  salt 

(Cloves  and  sage  if  liked) 

Mix  well,  two  loaves,  and  bake  two  hours. 

— M.  S.  G. 

Beefsteak  Pudding 
1  lb.  flour  \  lb.  suet 

1  lb.  steak  1  beef  kidney 

Make  a  crust  with  the  suet,  chopped  fine,  and  the  flour, 
roll  out  part  and  line  sides  of  pudding  dish — a  quart  bowl  is 
best — cut  steak  and  kidney  into  small  pieces,  put  in  dish, 
add: 

1  cup  water  Pepper 
Salt 

Dredge  with  flour.  Roll  the  remainder  of  the  crust  and 
cover  well.    Steam  three  hours.  — Mrs.  H.  Twyford. 

Beef  Croquettes 

Chop  very  fine  some  cold  cooked  beef,  add  twice  as  much 
hot  mashed  potatoes  well  seasoned  with  butter  and  salt.  Add 
one  well  beaten  egg.  Form  into  balls,  dip  in  egg  and  cracker 
crumbs  and  fry. 


22 


OUR  CHEF'S  BEST  RECEIPTS. 


Boiled  Chicken  and  Macaroni 

Stuff  as  for  roasting  a  pair  of  fowls,  medium  size.  Sew  up 
each  chicken  in  tarlatan  or  cheese  cloth.  Boil  until  tender. 
Take  out  about  1  cupful  of  the  liquor,  strain  and  season  and 
cook  in  it  1  cup  of  macaroni  broken  in  inch  pieces;  stew 
twenty  minutes.  Garnish  a  platter  with  the  macaroni  and 
parsley  and  lay  chickens  in  center.    Serve  with  drawn  butter. 

Boiled  Turkey 

Choose  a  tender  hen  turkey,  weighing  about  seven  pounds, 
stuff  it  with  a  bread  or  oyster  dressing.  Put  in  a  kettle  with 
enough  water  to  cover  it  and  boil  about  two  hours,  or  until 
tender.    Season  well  with  butter,  pepper  and  salt. 

Breaded  Chicken 

Prepare  young  chicken  as  for  frying.  Dip  each  piece  in 
egg  and  cracker  crumbs.  Season  with  pepper,  salt  and 
minced  parsley.  Put  in  a  baking  pan  with  a  piece  of  butter 
on  top  of  each,  add  half  cup  of  water  and  bake  slowly,  basting 
often.  When  done,  place  on  a  warm  platter.  Into  the  pan 
pour  a  cup  of  cream  or  rich  milk,  a  cupful  of  bread  crumbs, 
season  well,  let  boil  and  pour  over  chicken  and  serve. 

Chicken  Balls 

Mix  together  \  cup  chicken  meat'  chopped  fine  and  \  cup 
soft  part  of  bread.  Season  with  salt  and  cayenne  and 
moisten  it  with  enough  raw  yolk  of  egg  to  bind  it,  so  little 
balls  can  be  made  of  it.  Roll  in  egg  and  cracker  crumbs 
and  fry. 

Chicken  Croquettes 

Three  teacupfuls  of  finely  minced  chicken,  season  with 
chopped  parsely,  salt,  pepper  and  a  little  red  pepper  to  taste. 

Boil  1  teacup  of  milk,  stir  into  it  1  tablespoon  butter  and 
a  heaping  teaspoon  of  flour  rubbed  together.  When  cold  add 
the  chicken,  roll  in  shape.  Dip  in  egg,  roll  in  cracker 
crumbs  and  fry  in  hot  lard. 


OUR  CHEF'S  BEST  RECEIPTS. 


23 


While  on  your  trip  to  the  Head  of  the  Lakes,  do 
not  fail  to  visit  the  Famous 

Iron  Mines  of  the  Mesaba  Range 

....ALONG  THE.... 

Ouluth,  Missabe  &  Northern  Ry.  Line 

Trains  leave  Duluth  Umon  Depot  in  morning,  daily 
except  Sunday,  and  return  in  afternoon  of  same  day. 
First-class  equipment,  with  speed  and  safety  will 
ensure  you  a  pleasant  and  comfortable  trip. 

J.  B  HANSON,  Gen'l  Pass'r  Agent, 

DULUTH,  MINN 


Chicken  Loaf 

One  chicken,  boiled  slowly.  When  done  cut  the  meat 
into  small  pieces  and  season  well.  Put  a  layer  of  chicken, 
then  a  layer  of  hard  boiled  eggs,  sliced  thin,  then  a  layer  of 
chicken  until  quite  a  pyramid  is  formed.  Pour  over  this  the 
jelly  that  the  chicken  has  been  boiled  in.  When  cold  it  will 
slice  nicely.    It  is  well  to  put  a  press  on  the  loaf. 

— Mrs.  Hoi  den,  Jackson,  Mich. 

Frizzled  Dried  Beef 

\  lb.  chipped  beef  2  tablespoons  butter 

1  tablespoon  flour 

Melt  the  butter.  When  hot  add  the  beef  and  fry  until 
brown  and  add  1\  pints  of  milk.    Thicken  with  the  flour. 

Leg  of  Lamb 

Boil  a  leg  of  lamb  until  tender,  season  well.  Put  in  the 
oven  long  enough  to  brown  a  little. 

Sauce 

Take  a  tablespoon  of  butter  and  melt  with  a  teaspoonful 
flour.  Add  a  teacup  of  the  liquor  the  lamb  was  boiled  in 
with  a  half  cup  of  vinegar,  some  mint,  chopped  fine,  and 
pepper  and  salt.  — Mrs.  C.  F.  Kilgore. 

8 


24 


OUR  CHEF'S  BEST  RECEIPTS. 


Meat  Jelly 

2  lbs.  of  lean  beef  \  gallon  of  cold  water 

6  black  pepper  cones  6  whole  cloves 

1  tablespoon  salt  J  box  gelatine  soaked  in  -J-  cup 

2  tablespoons  of  sherry  water  for  15  minutes 
1  lemon,  the  juice 

Cut  the  beef  into  the  water,  add  pepper  cones,  cloves  and 
salt,  and  let  simmer  slowly  4  hours.  Then  add  the  gelatine 
and  strain.  To  this  add  the  sherry  and  lemon  juice  and  pour 
into  a  mould.    When  cold  it  will  slice  nicely. 

—Mrs.  Wm.  Peek,  Detroit. 


Pork  Tenderloin  with  Sweet  Potatoes 

Wipe  tenderloins,  put  in  dripping-pan,  and  brown  quickly 
in  a  hot  oven;  sprinkle  after  with  salt,  pepper  and  powdered 
sage,  and  bake  forty-five  minutes,  basting  frequently. 

Sweet  Potatoes. — Pare  six  potatoes  and  parboil  ten  minutes, 
drain,  put  in  pan  with  meat  and  cook  until  soft,  basting  when 
basting  meat.  — E.  V.  E. 


Stewed  Beef's  Heart 

Wash  the  heart  and  soak  for  two  hours  in  salt  water. 
Stuff  with  a  forcemeat  made  of  1  cup  bread  crumbs,  2  or  3 
slices  salt  pork,  minced  very  fine,  pepper  and  1  teaspoonful  of 
chopped  parsley,  ^  teaspoon  of  sweet  marjoram,  1  small  onion. 
Moisten  with  melted  butter.  Fill  heart  with  this  and  sew  up 
firmly  in  the  piece  of  cheese  cloth.  Stew  gently  for  three 
hours. 

Rub  1  tablespoon  of  butter  smooth  with  1  tablespoon  of 
flour,  browned,  add  to  the  liquor  in  kettle;  add  pepper  and 
salt.  After  taking  from  fire  add  juice  of  1  lemon  and  2 
tablespoonfuls  of  sherry.    Pour  over  the  heart  and  serve. 


OUR  CHEF'S  BEST  RECEIPTS. 


23 


Sweetbreads 

2  pair  calves'  sweetbreads  1  can  mushrooms 

4  hard  boiled  eggs  1  cup  cream 

\  cup  butter 

Prepare  the  sweetbreads  by  soaking  two  hours  in  salt 
water,  then  pour  boiling  water  over  them,  then  quickly 
plunge  in  cold  water.  Eepeat  this  three  times.  Now  remove 
all  gristle  and  skin,  pick  to  pieces  and  boil  until  nearly  tender 
in  enough  water  to  cover.  When  nearly  done  add  the 
mushrooms,  butter  and  seasoning.  When  done  add  the 
cream,  thicken  and  pour  all  over  the  eggs  cut  in  halves. 

Sweetbread  and  Bacon 

Parboil  a  sweetbread,  cut  in  small  pieces,  dip  in  flour,  eggs 
and  crumbs.  Arrange  alternately  with  pieces  of  bacon 
on  small  skewers,  having  four  pieces  of  sweetbread  and  three 
of  bacon  on  each.  Fry  in  deep  fat  and  drain.  Arrange  in 
a  circle  around  mound  of  green  peas.  — E. 

Veal  Croquettes 

1  cupful  of   finely  chopped    %  teaspoonful  of  salt 

meat  1  teaspoonful  of  pepper 

\  cupful  of  stock  1  tablespoonful  of  flour 

2  eggs  1  tablespoonful  lemon  juice 
1  tablespoonful  of  butter 

Boil  the  stock,  add  flour  and  butter  mixed,  then  seasoning 
and  meat.  Boil  two  minutes,  add  1  beaten  egg,  cool,  shape, 
dip  in  egg  and  crackers  and  fry  in  hot  lard. 


PROPRIETOR  OF  THE 

physio-rcedicai  Compound  Vapor  Baths 

16  East  Superior  St.,  DULUTH,  MINN. 

c&odistfetc1  Treatment-  Mrs.  Ecker  waits  on  the  Ladies. 


26 


OUR  CHEF'S  BEST  RECEIPTS. 


Veal  Collops 

Cut  cooked  veal  into  pieces  the  size  of  an  oyster,  rub  each 
piece  with  salt  and  pepper  and  a  little  mace.  Dip  each  in 
egg  and  cracker  and  fry. 


Beat  eggs  separately,  mix  all  together  quickly.  Take  roast 
beef  out  of  pan,  pour  off  most  of  the  fat.  Pour  pudding  in 
and  put  meat  on  grating  above  so  the  drippings  will  fall  on 
pudding.  Bake  from  half  to  three  quarters  of  hour.  Cut 
into  squares  and  serve  on  platter  with  meat. 


1  pint  milk 

2  cups  flour 


Yorkshire  Pudding 

4  eggs 

1  teaspoon  salt 


— Mrs.  Poore. 


Wine  Sauce  for  Meats 


f  lb.  of  butter 

5  tablespoons  sugar 

1  quart  of  wine 


1\  pints  of  jelly 

\\  teaspoons  of  allspice 


Stir  over  the  fire  until  thick. 


— Mrs.  Fair  brother. 


OUR   CHEF'S  BEST  RECEIPTS.  27 


SALADS 


CHAPTER  IV 

"We  may  pick  a  thousand  salads  ere  we  light  on  such  another." 

—All's  Well. 

Cold  Slaw 

Chop  cabbage  or  shred  it.  Make  a  dressing  as  follows, 
and  pour  hot  upon  cabbage,  and  cover  till  cold,  thoroughly 
tossing  it  together : 

2  eggs  \  cup  vinegar,  \  cup  water, 

1  tablespoonful  made  mustard  mixed  together 

(Colman's  English)  2  teaspoonfuls  salt,  scant 

4  tablespoonfuls  sugar  Large  lump  butter 

Stir  thoroughly  together  and  cook  till  smooth. 

—Mrs.  Caldwell. 

Cream  Dressing-  for  Cold  Slaw 

2  tablespoons  whipped  cream  2  tablespoons  sugar 
4  tablespoons  vinegar  A  little  red  pepper 

Beat  well  together  and  pour  over  finely  sliced  cabbage  that 
has  been  salted.  — Mrs.  C.  F.  Kilgore. 

Egg  Salad 

1  tablespoon  of  butter  1  cup  of  cream 

1  teaspoon  of  pepper  3  raw  eggs 

§  cup  of  vinegar  1  teaspoon  salt 

2  teaspoons  mustard 

Beat  eggs  separately,  mix  them  and  add  pepper,  vinegar, 
salt  and  mustard.  Melt  the  butter  in  double  boiler,  pour  in 
the  mixture,  let  come  to  boil,  when  cool  add  the  cream. 
Cut  celery  in  pieces,  slice  hard  boiled  eggs,  having  equal 
quantities  of  each. 

Mix  all  together  and  add  the  dressing. 


28 


OUR  CHEF'S  BEST  RECEIPTS. 


Macedoine  Salad 

1  head  celery  ^  cauliflower 

1  tablespoon  green  peas  1  tablespoon  string  beans 

1  small  beet 

Vegetables  that  are  cooked  for  serving  should  also  be 
cooked  for  salads.  Cut  into  small  pieces  and  jnst  before 
serving  cover  with  mayonnaise. 

Mrs.  Clarkson's  Salad  Dressing 

1  cup  butter  \  cup  of  sugar 

1  cup  milk  3  tablespoons  of  mustard 

1  tablespoon  of  salt  Yolks  of  12  eggs,  beaten  very 

1  pint  of  vinegar  light 

Cayenne  pepper 

Cook  in  a  double  boiler.    Stir  well  till  thick. 

— Ann  Arbor. 

Mrs.  S.  T.  Rorer's  Fruit  Salad  Dressing 

4  tablespoons  sugar  1  gill  sherry 

^  teaspoon  cinnamon  2  tablespoons  Madeira 

Mix  sugar  and  cinnamon  together,  add  the  wine  and  stir 
constantly  until  sugar  is  dissolved. 

Nut  Salad 

1  lb.  of  English  walnuts  (be-    3  large  stalks  celery 

fore  shelled)  2  eggs — yolks 

^  cup  sugar  +  cup  vinegar 

1  tablespoon  butter 

Cut  the  celery  fine,  add  salt  to  the  celery  aud  mix  with 
nuts. 

Cook  the  well  beaten  eggs,  sugar,  butter  and  vinegar 
until  thick.  When  cold  add  1  cup  cream  and  mix  with  nuts 
and  celery.  — Mrs.  Sylvester. 


OUR  CHEF'S  BEST  RECEIPTS. 


29 


Nut  Salad 

2  cups  chopped  celery  1  cup  chopped  tart  apples 
1  small  cup  English  walnuts 

Mix  with  salad  dressing  and  garnish  with  celery  tips. 

— Miss  Mary  S.  Gilbert,  Detioit. 

Pea  Salad 

1  can  French  peas  \    the     measure  chopped 

3  tablespoons  of  oil  or  butter  pecans 
3  tablespoons  of  vinegar 

Mix  well  and  pour  over  it  salad  dressing. 

— Mrs.  French. 

Potato  Salad 

Boil  four  good  sized  potatoes  in  their  jackets,  peel,  cut  in 
dice,  put  into  a  colander  and  marinate  with  French  dressing  in 
which  has  been  grated  a  few  drops  of  onion.  When  cold 
moisten  slightly  with  mayonnaise  which  has  had  1  teaspoonf  ul 
of  minced  cucumber  pickles  and  one  of  minced  capers  mixed 
with  it. 

Put  a  layer  in  the  salad  bowl,  a  thin  layer  of  sliced  and 
salted  cucumbers,  a  spoonful  or  two  of  mayonnaise  on  this, 
then  more  potatoes,  etc.,  until  all  are  used,  putting  potatoes 
last,  and  mayonnaise  liberally  on  top.  Garnish  with  pitted 
olives,  cold  boiled  beets  cut  in  any  shape  desired,  hard  boiled 
eggs  or  capers. 

It  is  hardly  possible  to  put  too  many  good  things  into 
potato  salad. 

— Mrs.  Richard  0.  Stevens,  from  "Clever  Cooking." 

m  *■%  MS*  M?  S)M§Hd)fP  Sixth  and  Robert  Sts.,  St.  PAUL,  M  I  N  N  . 
VgVti/g J IfyvfilAS  Is  The  Leading  and  Most  Reliable 

DRY  GOODS  HOUSE 

^^t^tVtSt!^^^^  .  t,t,o         BEST  QUALITY.THWLOWEST  PRICES. 
MILLINERY,  ART  WARES,       ^=This  is  the  Silk  Head- 

CLOAKS,  SUITS,  and  FURS.  ^      quarters  of  the  Northwest. 


30 


OUR  CHEF'S  BEST  RECEIPTS. 


Salad  Dressing 

6  eggs  1  teaspoon  salt 

\  teaspoon  pepper  1       tablespoon  prepared 

1  tablespoon  of  sugar  mustard 

Butter  size  of  an  egg  1  coffee  cup  cider  vinegar 

Make  a  thick  custard  of  this.  When  cool,  stir  into  it 
thoroughly  1  cup  of  sweet  or  sour  cream  and  a  sprinkle  of 
cayenne  pepper.  — Mrs.  Geo.  H.  Starkle. 


Salad  Dressing 

3  eggs  2  tablespoons  of  sugar,  or 
1  tablespoon  salt  one  to  taste 

6  tablespoons  melted  butter  \  teaspoon  pepper 
1  tablespoon  mustard 

Add  1  teacup  of  hot  vinegar  and  cook  over  hot  water  till 
it  thickens.  When  cold,  add  one  cup  of  whipped  cream, 
either  sweet  or  sour.  — Mrs.  Trumbull. 


Salad  Dressing- 

To  5  tablespoons  of  boiling  vinegar  add  the  well  beaten 
yolks  of  5  eggs,  piece  of  butter  size  of  an  egg,  I  teaspoon 
flour  and  teaspoon  mustard  and  1  teaspoon  sugar,  rubbed  to  a 
smooth  paste  with  a  little  water.  Cook  until  it  thickens. 
Eemove  from  the  stove,  add  1  teaspoon  salt,  a  little  red 
pepper,  beat  thoroughly  and  let  cool.  When  ready  for  use 
add  i  cup  cream  whipped  stiff. 

Salad  Dressing 

Yolks  of  3  eggs,  well  beaten     3  tablespoons  vinegar 
6  tablespoons  of  oil  Pepper  and  salt 

Put  into  a  bottle  and  shake  till  like  cream. 


OUR  CHEF'S  BEST  RECEIPTS 


31 


Knatif  Sisters'  Hair  Store 


101  West  Superior  St.,  cor.  1st  Ave.,  West.  Tel.  418. 

Chiropody,  Corns,  and  Bunions  treated.  Face  treatment  for  Wrinkles, 
Blackheads,  Moth  Patches,  and  Sallowness.  Superfluous  Hair  and 
Warts  permanently  removed  by  Electricity.  Treatment  for  all  Hair  and 
Scalp  diseases.  Artistic  Hair  Dressing,  Manicuring,  and  Shampooing. 
Beautiful  Hair  Switches,  $1  50  to  $15.00.  Switches  made  from  Cut  Hair 
and  Combings.  Toilet  Preparation,  including  Skin  Food  for  Massage. 
Face  rowder,  Perfumes,  etc. 


Salmon  Salad 

1  quart  boiled  salmon  2  tablespoons  of  lemon  juice 

2  tablespoons  of  capers  2  heads  of  lettuce 
1  tablespoon  vinegar  1  teaspoon  of  salt 
1  cup  of  mayonnaise  dressing 

Break  up  the  salmon  with  a  fork,  add  salt,  pepper,  lemon 
juice,  vinegar  and  capers.    Place  on  ice  for  two  hours. 

Just  before  serving  add  the  dressing,  toss  lightly  with  silver 
fork  and  spoon.    Serve  on  the  lettuce  leaves. 


32 


OUR  CHEF'S  BEST  RECEIPTS. 


Sour  Cream  Dressing 

5  tablespoons  of  vinegar  -J-  cup  of  batter  or  salad  oil 

1  saltspoon  of  pepper  1     teaspoon     of  prepared 

Yolks  of  5  eggs  mustard 

1  teaspoon  of  salt  1  tablespoon  of  sugar 

1  cup  of  sour  cream 

Heat  vinegar  to  boiling  point  and  pour  gradually  into 
beaten  eggs.  Stir  until  thick.  Then  add  butter  slowly  until 
all  melted  and  lastly  the  other  ingredients. 

Sweetbread  Salad 

3  pairs  sweetbreads  -|  pint  pecans 

^  pint  green  peas  £   as   much  celery  as  above 

makes 

Soak  sweetbreads  in  salted  water  for  three  hours.  Then 
plunge  alternately  in  cold  and  boiling  water  three  times. 
Remove  skin  and  gristle  and  boil  until  tender. 

When  cold  cut  in  dice,  add  nuts,  cut  in  pieces  peas  and 
celery,  cut  as  for  chicken  salad. 

Pour  following  dressing  over  it  one  hour  before  serving. 
Dressing 

Yolks  of  4  eggs,  beaten  well      1  pint  olive  oil 
1  teaspoon  mustard  mixed  in    Juice  of  1  lemon 

little  vinegar  Salt  and  cayenne  pepper  to 

taste 

Set  dish  containing  eggs  in  ice  water  and  drop  in  oil,  beat- 
ing all  time,  then  add  the  rest.  — Mrs.  Kipp. 

Tomato  Salad 

1  can  tomatoes  1  box  gelatine 

f  cup  chopped  English  wal-    ^  teaspoon  cloves 

nuts  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

Stew  the  tomatoes  well  and  strain,  add  the  gelatine 
(dissolved),  mould  in  small  cups.  Serve  on  lettuce  leaves  with 
mayonnaise.  — Mrs.  Moses  Folsom. 


OUR  CHEF'S  BEST  RECEIPTS. 


33 


Sydney  Smith's  Recipe  for  Salad 

Two  boiled  potatoes,  strained  through  a  kitchen  sieve, 

Softness  and  smoothness  to  the  salad  give ; 

Of  Mor daunt  mustard  take  a  single  spoon — 

Distrust  the  condiment  that  bites  too  soon; 

Yet  deem  it  not,  thou  man  of  taste,  a  fault 

To  add  a  double  quantity  of  salt. 

Four  times  the  spoon  with  oil  of  Lucea  crown, 

And  twice  with  vinegar  procured  from  town; 

True  taste  requires  it  and  your  poet  begs 

The  pounded  yellow  of  two  well  boiled  eggs. 

Let  onions'  atoms  lurk  within  the  bowl, 

And,  scarce  suspected,  animate  the  whole ; 

And  lastly,  in  the  flavored  compound  toss 

A  magic  spoonful  of  anchovy  sauce. 

Oh,  great  and  glorious!    Oh,  herbarious  meat! 

'Twould  tempt  the  dying  anchorite  to  eat; 

Back  to  the  world  he'd  turn  his  weary  soul, 

And  plunge  his  fingers  in  the  salad  bowl. 

Veal  Salad  With  Nuts 

2  lbs.  veal,  cut  small  1  head  celery 
1  lb.  of  blanched  English  wal-    1  teaspoon  salt 

nuts  Mix  with  French  dressing 

Just  before  serving  place  on  lettuce  leaves  and  add  a  little 
mayonnaise  dressing. 

Waldorf  Salad 

4  good-sized  apples  3  tablespoons  capers 

3  small  bunches  celery  1  pt.  salad  dressing 

Mix  celery  and  capers  with  the  dressing  and  1  pint 
whipped  cream,  and  the  apples  last. 


4 


34 


OUR  CHEF'S  BEST  RECEIPTS. 


BREAD 


CHAPTER  V 

"There's  no  bread  like  'em.    I  could  wish  my  best  friend  at  such  a 
feast."  — T.  of  Athens. 

A  Bishop  as  a  Poet  aiid  Cook 

Bishop  Williams  of  Connecticut,  senior  prelate  of  the 
Episcopal  Church  in  the  United  States,  is  an  enthusiast  upon 
the  subject  of  New  England  corn  cake,  and  has  incorporated 
in  verse  his  views  as  to  how  the  delicacy  should  be  made. 
The  recipe,  as  it  recently  appeared  in  the  Hartford  Times,  has 
this  prologue: 

A  forgetful  old  bishop, 

All  broken  to  pieces, 
Neglected  to  dish  up 

For  one  of  his  nieces 
A  receipt  for  "Corn  pone" — 
The  best  ever  known. 

So  he  hastes  to  repair  his  sin  of  omission 

And  hopes  that  in  view  of  his  shattered  condition 

His  suit  for  forgiveness  he  humbly  may  urge, 

So  here's  the  receipt,  and  it  comes  from  Lake  George. 


THE  RECIPE 

Take  a  cup  of  cornmeal, 

(And  the  meal  should  be  yellow, ) 

Add  a  cup  of  wheat  flour 
For  to  make  the  corn  mellow; 

Of  sugar  a  cup,  white  or  brown  at  your  pleasure. 
(The  color  is  nothing,  the  fruit  is  the  measure). 


OUR  CHEF'S  BEST  RECEIPTS. 


35 


And  now  comes  a  troublesome  thing  to  indite, 

For  the  rhyme  and  the  reason  they  trouble  me  quite ; 

For  after  the  sugar,  the  flour  and  the  meal 

Comes  a  cup  of  sour  cream,  but  unless  you  should  steal 

From  your  neighbors,  I  fear  you  will  never  be  able 

This  item  to  put  upon  your  cook's  table ; 

For  "sure  and  indeed,"  in  all  towns  I  remember, 

Sour  cream  is  as  scarce  as  June  buds  in  December. 

So  here  an  alternative  nicely  contrived 

Is  suggested  your  mind  to  relieve, 
And  showing  how  you  without  stealing  at  all 

The  ground  that  is  lost  may  retrieve. 
Instead  of  sour  cream  take  one  cup  of  milk, 

"Sweet  milk!"  what  a  sweet  phrase  to  utter! 
And  to  make  it  cream-like  put  into  the  cup 

Just  three  tablespoonfuls  of  butter. 

Cream  of  tartar,  one  teaspoonful,  rules  dietetic — 
How  nearly  I  wrote  it  down  tartar  emetic ! — 
But  ho !  cream  of  tartar  it  is  without  doubt, 
And  so  the  alternative  makes  itself  out. 
Of  soda  the  half  of  a  teaspoonful  add, 
Or  else  your  poor  corn  cake  will  go  to  the  bad; 
Two  eggs  must  be  broken  without  being  beat, 
Then  of  salt  a  teaspoonful  your  work  will  complete. 
Twenty  minutes  of  baking  are  needful  to  bring 
To  the  point  of  perfection  this  "awful  good  thing." 

To  eat  at  the  best  this  remarkable  cake 

You  should  fish  all  day  long  on  the  royal-named  lake, 

With  the  bright  waters  glancing  in  glorious  light 

And  beauties  unnumbered  bewild'ring  your  sight, 

On  mountain  and  lake,  in  water  and  sky ; 

And  then,  when  the  shadows  fall  down  from  on  high, 

Seek  "Sabbath  Day  Point,"  as  the  light  fades  away, 

And  end  with  this  feast  the  angler's  long  day. 

Then,  there  you  will  find,  without  any  question, 

That  an  appetite  honest  awaits  on  digestion. 


36 


OUR  CHEF'S  BEST  RECEIPTS. 


Baking  Powder  Biscuit 

1  qt.  of  sifted  Pillsbury  flour  6  small  teaspoons,  level  full, 
1  tablespoon  of  lard  of  baking  powder 

1  tablespoon  of  butter  1  small  teaspoon  of  salt 

Sift  flour  and  baking  powder  four  times,  wet  with  milk, 
bake  in  hot  oven  ten  minutes.  — Good. 


2  cups  of  sweet  milk 
2  cups  of  corn  meal 
\  cup  of  molasses 
2  teaspoonfuls  salt 


Brown  Bread 

1  cup  of  sour  milk 
1  cup  of  flour 
1  teaspoonful  of  soda 
Steam  three  hours 


1  cup  of  sour  milk 
1  cup  of  wheat  flour 
1  heaping  teaspoon  of  soda 
Graham  flour  enough  to 


Brown  Bread 

1  cup  of  cold  water 
§  cup  molasses 
1  teaspoon  of  salt 
make  a  stiff  batter. 


-Kate. 


Bake  an 


2  cups  rich  milk 


hour  or  more,  according  to  size  of  loaves. 

— Miss  Alice  Gilbert,  Ypsilanti,  Mich. 

Blueberry  Tea  Biscuits 

1  tablespoon  of  butter 
\  cup  of  sugar  \  teaspoon  of  salt 

1  cup  of  blueberries  1  qt.  of  flour 

3  heaping  tablespoons  of  baking 
powder 

"  Make  as  soft  as  possible  and  bake  in  quick  oven. 


MME.  A.  McKEIL, 

440:  SYNDICATE  ARCADE. 

Boston  Dermatologist 

Removes  Superfluous  Hair, 
Moles,  and  Birth  Marks. 
Stops  Falling  Hair,  gives 
Paris  Steams  for  the  Com- 
plexion, removes  Wrinkles 
without  pain. 


Expert  on  all  Scalp  and 
Skin  Diseases. 


CONSULTATION 
FREE  


OFFICE  HOURS  9  TO  6 

AND  MONDAY  EVENINGS 

PROMPT  ATTENTION   GIVEN  TO 
MAIL  ORDERS. 


OUR  CHEF'S  BEST  RECEIPTS. 


37 


1  cup  corn  meal 
\  teaspoon  salt 
1  cup  flour 
1  cup  sweet  milk 

Mix  in  order  given. 


Com  Bread 

\  scant  cup  sugar 
2  teaspoons  baking  powder 
.   1  egg 

1  tablespoon  melted  butter 

— Mrs.  Oliver  Crosby. 


Cream  Waffles 

1  pint  sour  cream  2  eggs 

1  pint  flour  1  tablespoon  corn  meal 

1  teaspoon  soda  -\  teaspoon  salt 

Mix  the  cream  with  the  beaten  yolks,  stir  in  the  flour,  corn 
meal  and  salt,  add  soda  dissolved  in  a  little  sweet  milk,  and 
last  the  whites  of  eggs  beaten  stiff. — White  House  Cook  Book. 

Fritters 

1  cup  milk  2  cups  flour 

1    heaping    teaspoon  baking    2  eggs,  beaten  separately 
powder  Saltspoonful  of  salt 

Heat  the  milk  a  little,  add  slowly  to  the  yolks,  then  add 
flour  and  whites  of  eggs.  Beat  well  and  drop  from  spoon  into 
hot  lard.  —Mrs.  C.  L.  Caldwell. 


A 


PPL 


IT  IS  THE 
PESTo 
ASK 


1  ITc 


FL®0 


o  o  o  o 


MANUFACTURED  BY 

The  Win,  Lindeke  Roller  Mills 


88 


OTTR  CHEF'S  BEST  RECEIPTS. 


English  Buns 

1  quart  of  raised  bread  sponge    f  cup  butter,  heated  with  1 


Flour  to  make  batter  as  for  cake. 

Beat  well,  let  rise  about  2  hours  or  until  it  keeps  its  shape 
when  dropped  from  a  spoon.  After  dropping  from  spoon  on 
baking  tins  spread  out  a  little  and  let  rise  3  hours.  Rub 
over  the  tops  with  beaten  egg  and  bake  in  quick  oven.  Very 
nice  warmed  over  to  eat  with  coffee.    — Marguerite  Taylor. 


If  cup  white  sugar 
3  eggs 

f  cup  currants 


cup  milk 
3  teaspoons  baking  powder 
J  nutmeg 


Fritters 


1  pint  of  sour  milk  3  eggs 

1  teaspoon  soda  Pinch  of  salt 

Make  batter  stifler  than  griddle  cakes. 


—Miss  Whitney. 


Graham  Gems 


1  egg 

1  cup  sour  milk 

Butter  size  of  a  large  walnut 


1  tablespoon  brown  sugar 
\  teaspoon  soda 


Not  a  very  thick  batter. 


Mrs.  McLaughlin. 


Mina's 


Waffles 


3  eggs 

3  cups  of  sweat  milk 
3  cups  of  sifted  flour 


3  tablespoons  melted  butter 
3    small    teaspoons  baking 
powder 


Salt 


Add  the  whites  of  eggs  beaten  stiff  before  baking  in  the 
waffle  irons. 

This  will  make  seven  waffles.       — Mrs.  F.  I.  Whitney. 


OUR  CHEF'S  BEST  RECEIPTS. 


39 


TOWLE'S  LOG  CABIN  MAPLE  SYRUP 

THE  STANDARD  FROM  OCEAN  TO  OCEAN. 


Absolutely  Pure 

The  Only  Syrup 
^      For  Cakes 

And  Waffles. 

For  richness  of  flavor  no  other 
brand  of  maple  syrup  equals 
it.  It  is  ABSOLUTELY  PURE 
AND  FULL  MEASURE,  and  is 
used  by  the  leading  families, 
hotels,  and  clubs  in  the  United 
States  

TRY  IT  ON 
YOUR  CAKES  AND  WAFFLES 
AND  BE  CONVINCED 

The  Towle  

Maple  Syrup  Co. 


BURLINGTON,  VT.    ST.  PAUL,  MINN. 


Mother's  Sally  Lunn 

3  pints  of  sifted  flour  1  generous  pint  of  milk 

2  eggs  2  tablespoons  sugar 

3  tablespoonfuls    of   melted    1  teaspoonful  of  salt 

butter  ^  cake  of  compressed  yeast 

Have  the  milk  blood  warm,  add  the  melted  butter ;  the 
egg  well  beaten  and  the  yeast  dissolved  in  3  tablespoons  of 
cold  water. 

Pour  gradually  on  the  flour,  and  beat  into  a  smooth 
batter;  then  add  the  salt  and  sugar.  Butter  baking  pans  and 
pour  in  the  batter  to  depth  of  about  two  inches. 

Let  it  rise  two  hours  in  a  warm  place.  Bake  half  an 
hour.  — Mrs.  F.  I.  Whitney. 


40 


OUB  CHEF'S  BEST  RECEIPTS. 


Muffins 

1  egg  Butter  size  of  an  egg 

1  tablespoon  of  sugar  1  cup  of  sweet  milk 

If  cups  of  flour  2  tablespoons  of  baking  powder 

Pinch  of  salt  — Miss  Alice  Gilbert,  Ypsilanti,  Mich. 

Muffins 

1  tablespoon  melted  butter         2  tablespoons  sugar 

1  cup  sweet  milk  3  teaspoons  baking  powder 

2  eggs  Flour  to  make  thick  batter 

Pinch  salt  — Mrs.  Greaza. 

Muffins 

1  egg,  well  beaten  Butter  size  of  an  egg 

1  cup  milk  2    small    teaspoons  baking 

1-^  cups  flour  powder 
tablespoons  sugar  Pinch  of  salt 

Bake  in  gem  tins  in  quick  oven.         — Mrs.  Newcomb. 


2 


Pocket  Books 

1  cup  sweet  milk  2  eggs 

1  tablespoon  butter  1  tablespoon  sugar 

2  tablespoons  yeast  Flour 

Flour  enough  to  make  it  a  little  softer  than  light  bread. 
Put  to  rise  over  night;  roll  very  thin,  cut  like  biscuit, 
butter  one  side  and  place  another  on  top,  and  bake  imme- 
diately. — Miss  Belknap. 
Pop  Overs 

3  eggs,  beaten  separate  1  cup  milk 

f  cup  sifted  flour  A  pinch  of  salt 

Stir  into  the  beaten  yolk  a  little  of  the  flour,  then  a  little 
of  the  milk,  alternating  until  all  is  used ;  add  the  salt  and 
lastly  the  well  beaten  whites.    Bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

— M.  E.  W. 


OJJE  CHEF'S  BEST  RECEIPTS. 


41 


Puffet 

\  cup  melted  butter  3  eggs 

1  tablespoon  sugar  1  cup  milk 

1  teaspoon  baking  powder  2  cups  flour 

Salt  Bake  in  square  tin 

—Mrs.  Kelliher. 

Rice  Waffles 

1  cupful  of  boiled  rice  1  pint  of  milk 

3  eggs  1  scant  tablespoonful  butter 

\  teaspoonful  of  soda  1  teaspoonful  cream  of  tartar 

Enough  flour  to  make  a  thin  batter. 


Rolls  (Good) 

3  eggs 

1  teaspoonful  salt 
1  yeast  cake 
Flour 

Beat  eggs  very  light.  Scald  the  milk  and  pour  over  eggs, 
sugar  and  salt.  Cool  to  lukewarm,  add  yeast.  Make  into 
soft  lamp.  Let  rise  2  hours,  then  add  butter.  Let  rise  3 
hours.  When  light  make  into  little  balls  and  let  stand  until 
very  light.  Bake  about  20  minutes.  Keep  your  dough  and 
dish  they  are  raised  in  well  buttered.        — Mrs.  Newcomb. 


2  cups  milk 

3  tablespoonfuls  sugar 
3  tablespoonfuls  butter 


Royal  Crumpet 

3  cups  raised  bread  dough        4  tablespoons  melted  butter 
3  eggs  1  cup  rolled  sugar 

Mix  the  butter  into  the  dough.  Beat  eggs  well  and  add 
sugar.  Mix  all  together  and  turn  into  buttered  pans.  Let 
raise,  and  bake  20  minutes.  — Mrs.  C.  B.  Wolcott. 


42 


OUR  CHEF'S  BEST  RECEIPTS 


Scotch  Scones 

1  large  cup  flour  Butter  size  of  walnut 

1  teaspoon  sugar  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Salt  Enough  milk  to  roll 

Roll  size  of  pie  plate,  cut  in  quarters.  Heat  spider  and 
dust  with  flour.  Cook  scones  over  slow  fire  on  both  sides. 
Eat  hot  with  butter  between.  — Mrs.  Twyford. 

Steamed  Bread 

J  cup  sugar  1  cup  sour  milk 

^  cup  molasses  2  eggs 

1  teaspoon  soda  Pinch  of  salt 

Flour  to  make  stiff  batter 

Steam  1  hour  — Mrs.  Greaza. 

Two  Waffles 

1  egg  Butter  size  of  an  egg 

^  cup  milk  1  cup  flour  (scant) 

1  teaspoon  baking  powder         Pinch  of  salt 

•  —Mrs.  D.  B.  N. 


OUR  CHEF'S  BEST  RECEIPTS. 


43 


SANDWICHES 


OHAPTEE  VI 

"What's  there?   Things  for  the  cook,  sir;  but  I  know  not  what." 

— T.  of  Athens. 

Anchovy  Sandwiches 

3  anchovies  1  hard  boiled  egg 

4  ounces  butter  Salt  and  pepper 
A  little  nutmeg 

Bone  the  anchovies,  and  pound  them  with  the  butter,  egg, 

salt,  pepper  and  nutmeg.    Slice  bread  very  thin,  spread  with 

paste  and  roll .  — S. 

Baked  Bean  Sandwiches 

Eub  cold  baked  beans  through  a  sieve,  add.  salt  and  pepper 
to  taste  and  mix  with  mayonnaise  to  a  smooth  paste.  Add 
finely  chopped  celery  leaves  or  a  little  celery  salt  and  spread 
between  brown  bread.  — S. 

Cheese  Sandwiches 

Mix  cheese  (Delicatesse  or  Club  House)  with  mayonnaise 
or  prepared  mustard,  and  with  some  hard  boiled  eggs  chopped 
very  fine.    Eub  this  in  a  mortar  to  a  paste. 

Spread  on  thin  buttered  squares  of  bread  or  crackers  or 
slices  of  buttered  toast.  — From  Seattle  Cook  Book. 

Chicken  and  Nut  Sandwiches 

1  cup  of  chicken,  chopped  very  fine 
i  cup  of  blanched  almonds  or  walnuts 

Chop  fine  and  soften  with  sweet  cream  to  a  paste,  season 
with  salt  and  pepper  and  spread  on  white  bread  or  graham, 
cut  very  thin. 

Cold  roast  or  boiled  chicken  may  be  used. 

— Harper's  Bazar. 


44 


OUR  CHEF'S  BEST  RECEIPTS. 


Cottage  Cheese  Sandwich 

Rub  cottage  cheese  to  a  paste,  add  olives  or  capers  finely 
minced  and  a  little  Worcestershire  sauce.  Should  be  well 
salted.    Spread  between  buttered  white  or  brown  bread. 

— S. 

Cream  Celery  Sandwiches 

1  cup  of  celery,  chopped  very  fine 

1  large  size  Philadelphia  cream  cheese 

Mix  and  rub  thoroughly,  add  sweet  cream  to  make  a  soft 
paste.  Season  with  salt  and  white  pepper,  spread  on  thin 
white  bread.  — Harper's  Bazar. 


MINNESOTA  

Lands  and  Mortgages 

Bought  for  Cash 


Stock  and  Bond 
Brokers 


We  take  entire  charge 
of  property  for 
non-residents. 

Write  us  concerning 

Investments  made  or 

anticipated. 


DULUTH  OFFICES,  PALLAD/O  BUILDING. 


OUR  CHEF'S  BEST  RECEIPTS. 


45 


Egg  Sandwiches 

Chop  hard  boiled  eggs,  season  with  salt,  cayenne  and  a 
little  vinegar.  Mix  to  a  paste  with  soft  butter.  Add 
pickles  chopped  fine  and  a  little  deviled  meat  or  minced  ham, 
tongue  or  chicken. 

Spread  between  slices  of  white  bread  or  finger  rolls.    — S. 

Oyster  Sandwiches 

(Makes  60.) 

Chop  1  quart  of  oysters  very  fine,  season  with  pepper  and 
salt  and  a  little  nutmeg.  Mix  with  \  cupful  melted  butter. 
The  same  of  rich  cream,  whites  of  3  eggs,  beaten,  8  ordinary 
crackers,  powdered.  Heat  in  a  double  boiler  until  smooth 
paste.    Set  away  to  cool.    Spread  between  buttered  bread. 

— Seattle. 

Peanut  Sandwiches 

Mash  peanuts  in  a  mortar,  or  chop  as  fine  as  possible  and 
mix  with  Worcestershire  sauce.  Spread  on  thin  slices  of 
bread  and  butter.  — Seattle. 

Roast  Beef  Sandwiches 

Chop  rare  roast  beef,  very  fine.     Season  with  salt  and 
pepper,  a  little  mustard  and  a  dash  of  Worcestershire  sauce. 
Use  plenty  of  salt.  — Seattle. 

Salmon  Sandwiches 

Free  cold  salmon  from  all  skin  and  bone,  shred  with  a 
fork,  add  a  little  lemon  juice,  a  little  paprika  and  tomato 
catsup.    Mix  to  a  paste  with  melted  butter. 

Sardine  Sandwiches 

Chop  sardines  very  fine,  mix  with  Worcestershire  sauce  or 
with  mayonnaise  dressing.    Spread  between  buttered  bread. 

— Seattle. 


46 


OUR  CHEF'S  BEST  RECEIPTS. 


BREAKFAST,  LUNCHEON  AND  TEAS 


"If  I  bring  thee  not  something  good  to  eat,  I  give  thee  leave  to  die." 


Chop  cold  meat  fine.  Moisten  with  gravy  or  stock,  cover 
with  mashed  potatoes  and  cracker  crumbs,  and  bake. 

Bean  Croquettes 

Boil  1  cupful  of  brown  beans  until  well  done  and  dry. 
Rub  through  a  colander.    To  this  add: 

1  cup  grated  bread  crumbs  1  minced  onion 

1  tablespoon  of  parsley  2  tablespoonf  uls  of  melted 

1  teaspoonful  of  salt  butter 

2  well  beaten  eggs 

Mix  well  and  form  into  cylinders.  Dip  in  egg  and  crackers 
and  fry  in  hot  lard.  Serve  with  a  tiny  red  pepper  stuck  in 
the  top  of  each. 


CHAPTER  VII 


— As  You  Like  It. 


Baked.  Hash 


Boston  Baked  Beans 


1  quart  of  beans 
1  teaspoon  ginger 


\  teaspoon  soda 

1  teaspoon  dry  mustard 

2  tablespoons  molasses 
1  cup  made  coffee 


\  teaspoon  pepper 
1  lb.  salt  pork 
Add  some  water 


Soak  beans  with  soda  over  night ;  pour  off  the  water,  and 
boil  until  cracked.  Then  put  in  jar  with  other  ingredients, 
and  bake  all  day.  — Mrs.  J.  E.  Ricketts. 


OUR  CHEF'S  BEST  RECEIPTS. 


47 


Breaded  Veal 

Dip  veal  chops  in  egg  and  cracker  crumbs.    Season  well. 
Lay  in  a  baking  pan  on  slices  of  bacon,  cover  and  bake 
about  three-fourths  of  an  hour. 

Calves'  Brains— Southern  Style 

Soak  brains  in  warm  water  and  remove  all  the  thin  skin, 
then  mash  with  potato  masher.  Sprinkle  with  pepper  and 
salt.    Break  in  3  or  4  eggs  and  beat  all  together. 

Butter  small  pan,  pour  in  and  bake  15  to  20  minutes.  Cut 
in  squares  and  serve.  — Mrs.  T.  C.  Canfield. 

Cecils 

2  cups  cold  meat  Yolks  of  2  eggs 

1  tablespoon  butter  2  tablespoons  stale  bread 

^  teaspoon  onion  joice  \  teaspoon  salt 

i  teaspoon  black  pepper 

Chop  meat  fine,  put  all  together  and  cook  until  well 
mixed.  When  cold  form  into  balls  size  of  walnut,  dip  in 
egg  and  crackers  and  fry  in  hot  lard.    Serve  with  sauce. 

Sauce 

Put  1  tablespoon  butter  in  a  spicier  with  1  even  teaspoon 
flour.  Rub  together  until  smooth.  Add  1  gill  cream,  1  gill 
of  stock.  Stir  until  it  boils.  Take  from  fire,  add  beaten  yolks 
of  two  eggs,  season  and  serve.  — Mrs.  Newcomb. 

Corn  Oysters 

1  pint  grated  corn  2  eggs 

As  much  flour  as  will  make  it  adhere  together.  Beat  the 
eggs  separately,  mix  the  yolks  of  eggs  with  grated  corn,  add 
flour  to  mix  the  whole  into  a  paste.  Add  the  whites  of  eggs 
last  and  fry  in  hot  lard  as  you  would  doughnuts. 

— Mrs.  Moses  Folsom. 


48 


OUR  CHEF'S  BEST  RECEIPTS. 


Candied  Sweet  Potatoes 

Steam  potatoes  until  tender,  then  pare  them.  Slice  in 
baking  pan  and  cover  with  syrup  made  of  2  teacups  sugar, 
1\  cups  water.  Add  heaping  tablespoon  butter,  put  small 
bits  of  butter  over  top  and  bake.  Keep  basted  with  the  syrup 
so  they  do  not  get  dry  on  top.    Bake  one  hour  and  a  half. 

— Mrs.  Butcher. 

Creamed  Eggs 

Drop  the  yolks  of  eggs  in  boiling  water.  When  cold, 
crumb  them  with  half  as  much  bread  crumbs  and  half  as 
much  cheese. 

Season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  melted  butter.  Make 
into  balls,  put  on  a  platter  or  shells  and  cover  with  cream 
eauce,  sprinkle  over  with  more  cheese  and  bread  crumbs,  and 
brown. 

Eggs  a  la  Caractis 

J  lb.  dried  beef,  parboil  and    4  hard  boiled  eggs 

chop  fine  2  tablespoons  of  grated  cheese 

2  cups  of  stewed  tomatoes         A  little  pepper 

Chop  all  together  very  fine,  and  add  2  tablespoons  of 
grated  onion,  that  has  been  cooked  a  little;  2  tablespoons  of 
butter.  Then  beat  4  eggs  and  add,  putting  all  in  a  frying 
pan,  and  stir  until  it  is  like  scrambled  eggs.    Serve  on  toast. 

— Mrs.  Harper. 

Escalloped  Sweet  Potatoes 

1  quart  of  boiled  and  mashed  Add  a  piece  of  butter  size  of 

potatoes  an  egg 

1  cup  rich  milk  or  cream  1  teaspoon  of  sugar 
A  sprinkle  of  salt 

Mix  all  well  together  and  brown  quickly  in  a  baking  dish. 

—Mrs.  T.  E.  Benton. 


OUR  CHEF'S  BEST  RECEIPTS. 


49 


Egg  Cutlets 

(Will  serve  six  people.    From  Mrs.  Rorer.) 
3  eggs  1  tablespoonful  parsley 

1  teaspoon  onion  juice  1  teaspoon  salt 

\  teaspoon  pepper 

Boil  the  eggs  hard.  When  cold  shell  them  and  chop  them 
fine.  Mix  well.  Also  chop  the  parsley  fine.  \  pint  milk ; 
when  it  boils  stir  in  2  tablespoons  flour,  1  tablespoon  butter, 
that  have  been  rubbed  together.  Let  it  boil  up,  then  add 
the  egg  mixture,  boil  1  minute,  mixing  thoroughly.  Set  it 
away  to  cool. 

When  cold,  shape  into  cutlet  shaped  croquettes,  dip  in 
beaten  eggs,  then  in  bread  crumbs,  fry  in  hot  fat,  as  any 
other  croquettes.  Serve  on  a  hot  platter,  with  a  cream  sauce 
and  peas. 

Garnish  with  parsley,  if  convenient. 

—Mrs.  M.  L.  Countryman. 

Egg  Drops 

1  quart  cornmeal  1  tablespoon  of  lard 

3  eggs  Salt  to  taste 

Pour  enough  boiling  water  over  the  cornmeal  to  make  a 
thick  batter.  Add  the  lard,  salt  and  eggs.  Stir  well  and 
drop  on  a  griddle  which  has  been  heated  and  greased.  Let 
them  cook  brown  on  both  sides. 

— Miss  Belknap,  Keokuk,  Iowa. 

To  Use  Yolks  of  Eggs 

Drop  whole  yolks  in  boiling  water,  cook  until  hard,  place 
on  platter  and  serve  with  following  dressing. 

Slightly  brown  \  cup  of  minced  ham  or  chipped  beef  in  a 
little  butter,  season  and  add  2  cups  milk  and  enough  flour  to 
thicken  a  little.  — Mrs.  Newcomb. 


50 


OUR  CHEF'S  BEST  RECEIPTS. 


Vermicelli  Eggs 

8  hard  boiled  eggs  2  tablespoons  butter 

1  pint  (small)  sweet  milk  1  tablespoon  cornstarch 

Separate  the  whites  from  the  yolks  of  eggs.  Chop  the 
whites.  Put  the  milk  in  a  double  boiler,  and  thicken  with 
corn  starch  and  butter,  add  the  chopped  whites.  Make  two 
slices  of  toast.  Serve  on  a  platter,  with  the  sauce  poured 
over  and  the  yolks  put  through  a  fruit  sieve  on  the  top. 

—Miss  E.  M.  W. 

Escalloped  Potatoes 

1  quart  sliced  cold  boiled  pota-    1^  pints  of  water,  or  milk 

toes  3  tablespoons  of  butter 

2  tablespoons  of  flour  1  teaspoon  of  minced  onion 
Salt  and  pepper 

Put  butter  and  onion  in  frying  pan,  and  cook  until  a  light 
brown.  Then  add  flour,  stir  until  smooth  and  frothy, 
gradually  add  milk  or  water,  and  stir  till  it  boils.  Let  boil  5 
or  10  minutes,  season  to  taste.  Have  ready  a  baking  dish 
that  will  hold  about  3  pints,  put  in  first  a  layer  of  sauce, 
then  one  of  potatoes,  another  layer  of  sauce  and  a  second  one 
of  potatoes.  Cover  with  the  remainder  of  the  sauce. 
Sprinkle  bread  crumbs  over  the  top  and  bits  of  butter. 
Bake  for  \  or  f  of  an  hour. 

— Miss  Alice  Gilbert,  Ypsilanti,  Mich. 

Meat  Balls 

Chop  cold  meat  very  fine  (chicken  is  best),  add  a  little 
salt  and  to  1  pint  of  meat  add  the  whites  of  3  or  4  eggs,  un- 
beaten. 

Mix  well,  and  make  into  balls  the  size  of  a  large  marble. 
Drop  into  boiling  water,  and  when  they  come  to  the  top  they 
are  done.    Serve  with  a  cream  sauce.  — Mrs.  Harper. 


OUR  CHEF'S  BEST  RECEIPTS 


51 


Mock  Terrapin 

Cut  veal  in  inch  pieces,  cover  these  with  a  brown  gravy  by 
browning  1  tablespoon  of  butter  with  1-J  tablespoons  of  flour. 

After  browning,  take  away  from  the  fire  long  enough  to 
cool,  and  then  put  1  pint  of  stock.  Put  a  few  mushrooms  in 
and  turn  all  on  a  platter  and  cover  with  the  grated  yolks  of 
two  eggs. 

Potato  Puff 

Two  cups  cold  mashed  potatoes ;  stir  into  them  2  table- 
spoons melted  butter,  beat  to  a  white  cream,  add  2  eggs  beaten 
very  light,  1  teacup  milk.    Salt  to  taste. 

Beat  all  together  in  a  deep  dish  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven 
until  nicely  browned.  — Mrs.  Whitehead. 


Something  Good 

Boil  2  pork  chops  (loin).  When  done,  chop  fine,  add 
enough  water  to  the  liquor  they  were  boiled  in  to  make  1 
quart.  Salt  and  add  chopped  meat,  a  little  sage.  Stir  in 
enough  corn  meal  to  make  stiff  like  mush.  Mold  and  when 
cold  slice  and  fry.  — Mrs.  D.  B.  N. 

Sweet  Potatoes 

Boil  potatoes  till  well  done,  remove  skins,  lay  them  in  a 
broad  earthen  dish,  sprinkle  with  1  tablespoon  of  sugar  and 
pour  over  them  1  teacupful  of  cream  or  milk  with  1^  ounces 
of  butter. 

Put  in  a  hot  oven  and  bake  brown.    They  are  delicious. 

— Mrs.  Waldo  F.  Brown. 


The  Cream  Sauce 

1  tablespoon  flour  \  teaspoon  of  salt  and  a  dash 

1  tablespoon  butter  of  pepper 

1  cup  boiling  water  — Miss  Whitney. 


52 


OUR  CHEFS  BEST  RECEIPTS. 


PASTRY 

CHAPTER  YIO 

"The  daintiest  last,  to  make  the  end  most  sweet." 

—Richard  III. 

"And  she's  wise  as  she  is  winsome. 
And  as  good  as  she  is  wise; 
And  beside  her  other  graces. 
She  is  good  at  baking  pies. 

Aunt  Maria's  Apple  Pie 

1  cup  sour  cream  1  small  teaspoon  soda 

Enough  flour  to  roll 

Line  a  deep  pie  tin  with  crust,  fill  with  apples.  2  table- 
spoonfuls  of  water,  coTer  with  upper  crust  and  bake.  When 
done  lift  the  upper  crust  and  season  with  sugar,  butter  and 
cinnamon.    Serve  hot,  with  cream. 

Banbury  Tarts 

1  lemon  1  cup  sugar 

1  egg  1  cup  chopped  raisins 

Juice  and  grated  rind  of  a  lemon  2  soda  crackers 

Roll  the  crackers  and  mix  all  well  together.  Make  a  rich 
crust,  cut  round  the  size  of  an  after-dinner  saucer,  wet  edges, 
put  a  spoonful  of  mixture  in  each,  and  fold  together.  Prick 
with  fork  and  bake.  — Mrs.  Gibson. 

Butter  Pie 

1  cup  of  butter  2  eggs 

2  teaspoons  of  flour  Sugar  to  suit  taste 
1  pint  of  water 

Rub  butter  and  flour  together.    Bake  with  an  under  crust. 

— M.  S.  G. 


OUR  CHEF'S  BEST  RECEIPTS. 


53 


Cheese  Straws 

\  cup  lard  2  cups  flour 

\  cup  butter  \  teaspoon  salt 

Mix  well,  add  2  cups  grated  cheese,  wet  with  ice  water,  as 
for  pie  crust.  Eoll  thin,  cut  in  strips  \  inch  wide  and  5 
inches  long,  sprinkle  with  cheese  and  bake. 

— Miss  Sauvinet. 

Cream  Pie 

(Two  pies.) 

\  teaspoon  baking  powder 
2  eggs 

Cover  two  pie  plates.  Prick  and  bake. 
Cream  Puffs 

Pour  over  \  cup  of  butter  1  cup  boiling  water.  Bring  to 
a  boil.  Then  stir  in  1  cup  flour  and  pinch  of  soda.  Let 
cool,  and  add  3  unbeaten  eggs,  one  at  a  time.  Drop  on  pan 
3  inches  apart,  and  bake.  — Mrs.  Oliver  Crosby. 

Cream  for  Puffs 
1  pint  milk  f  cup  sugar 

1  egg  4  teaspoonfuls  flour 

1  teaspoonful  vanilla 

Cream  Twists 

Weigh  3  eggs  and  take  their  weight  in  flour  and  sugar. 
Beat  all  together  15  minutes.  Spread  in  strips  2  inches  wide 
by  6  inches  long,  on  a  baking  sheet,  and  bake  in  quick  oven. 
While  hot  roll  over  handle  of  wooden  spoon.  Fill  when  cold 
with  whipped  cream.  — Miss  Sauvinet. 


\\  cups  of  flour 
\  cup  of  butter 
2  tablespoons  sugar 

Mix  and  roll  thin. 


54 


OUR  CHEF'S  BEST  RECEIPTS. 


Cream  Pie 

1  cup  cream  \  cup  sugar 

Whites  of  3  eggs  Flavor  to  taste 

Beat  the  eggs  stiff,  add  sugar  and  cream,  and  enough  milk 
to  fill  a  pie  tin.    Bake  with  one  crust. 

—Mrs.  H.  B.  De  Lano. 
Egg  Tarts 
\\  lbs.  of  brown  sugar  6  eggs 

\  lb.  of  butter 

Stir  over  the  fire  until  partly  cooked,  then  stir  in  a  little 
vinegar.  Prepare  your  pastry  in  little  patties,  fill  with  the 
custard,  and  bake. 

Filling 

1  pint  of  cream  or  milk  2  tablespoons  flour 

6  eggs,  the  yolks  1  teaspoon  of  vanilla 

f  cirp  of  sugar 

Cook  in  a  double-boiler.  Fill  the  pie  crust,  and  cover 
with  a  meringue. 

White  of  6  eggs,  6  tablespoons  of  sugar,  and  brown  in  the 
oven.  — Miss  Gilbert,  Detroit, 

(From  Miss  Collins'  Cooking  School). 

Japan  Lemon  Pie 

1  lemon,  large,  or  two  small      1  cup  of  sugar 

Grate  the  peeling.  Heat  lemon  juice  and  sugar,  beat  yolks 
of  4  eggs,  and  stir  in.  Then  add  the  whites,  beaten,  and  the 
grated  peeling.    Bake  with  an  under  crust. 

—Mrs.  C.  C.  C. 

Lemon  Cheese 
(A  filling  for  cake  or  pies.) 
1  lb.  brown  sugar  4  lemons 

\  lb.  butter  8  eggs,  well  beaten 

Grate  the  rind  and  squeeze  the  juice  into  the  sugar.  Mix 
all  together,  and  boil  until  thick.  Stir  all  the  time.  Put 
into  small  jars.    This  will  keep  a  long  time. 

Nice  filling  for  tarts,  cakes,  etc.       — Mrs.  Whitehead. 


OUR  CHEF'S  BEST  RECEIPTS. 


55 


Lemon  Pie 

1  lemon,  grated  rind  and  juice    Handful  chopped  raisins 

2  eggs  1  cup  sugar 

Bake  with  top  crust.  Mrs.  S.  C.  Canfield. 

Lemon  Pie 

1  cup  of  water  1  tablespoon  cornstarch 

1^  cups  sugar  3  eggs 

Boil  the  cornstarch  in  the  water,  add  juice  and  rind  of  1 
large  lemon;  sugar  and  eggs,  the  yolks  of  3,  white  of  1; 
whites  of  2  eggs  for  the  meringue. 

— Miss  E.  Lamb,  Ypsilanti. 

Lemon  Cream  for  Pie 

1  large  lemon,  juice  and  a    1  cup  sugar 

little  of  the  rind  \  cup  water 

A  dust  of  cinnamon  after  it  is    A  little  flour  and  butter 

in  the  pie  dish  3  eggs,  the  yolks 

Meringue 

Whites  of  3  eggs  1  cup  of  sugar 

This  is  for  1  pie.  — Mrs.  F.  I.  Whitney. 

Marlborough  Pie 

3  eggs  H  lbs.  grated  apple 

1  lb.  sugar  %  pint  thick  sweet  cream 

\  lb.  butter  1  nutmeg- 

Beat  the  eggs.  Melt  but  not  heat  the  butter,  add  the 
grated  rind  and  juice  of  one  lemon.  Mix  with  the  apple. 
Bake  in  deep  dish  with  one  crust.  — Mrs.  Gibson. 

Mock  Mince  Pie 

6  crackers,  rolled  fine  1  cup  of  boiled  cider 

1  pint  of  boiling  water  1  cnp  of  sugar 

1  cup  of  chopped  raisins  ^  cup  of  butter 

1  cup  of  molasses  Spices  to  taste 

— Mrs.  Dick  Hoi  den,  Ann  Arbor. 


50 


OUR  CHEF'S  BEST  RECEIPTS. 


Mince  Meat 

1  beef  tongue  1  quart  sherry 
Double  its  weight  of  apple  1  quart  brandy 
4  lbs.  raisins  1  pint  molasses 

2  lbs.  currants  8  teaspoons  cinnamon 
1  lb.  citron  6  nutmegs 

3  lbs.  brown  sugar  1  tablespoon  salt 

1  quart  suet  Grated  rind  of  4  oranges 

Grated  rind  of  4  lemons  Juice  of  2 

Juice  of  2  — Florence  Bradley  Davenport. 

Mince  Meat 

3  pints  of  chopped  meat  1  pint  brandy 

7  pints  apple  3  teaspoons  cinnamon 

3  pints  raisins  3  teaspoons  allspice 

1  pint  currants  3  teaspoons  cloves 
14-  pints  sugar                        1  whole  nutmeg 

2  quarts  cider 

Cook  4  lbs.  of  neck  of  beef  with  J  lb.  of  suet  until  tender. 
Chop.  — Mrs.  Oliver  Crosby. 

Mock  Cherry  Pie 

1  cup  cranberries  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

\  cup  raisins  \  cup  water 

1  cup  sugar  1  teaspoon  butter 

1  tablespoon  flour 

Chop  together  the  cranberries  and  raisins,  add  the  other 
things,  and  bake  with  two  crusts.      — Mrs.  Oliver  Crosby. 

Pumpkin  Pies 

4  teacups  boiled  pumpkin         \  cup  molasses 

1  teacup  sugar  1  tablespoon  ginger 

3  teacups  milk  A  little  salt 

3  eggs  — Mrs.  F.  B.  Jerrard,  Superior. 


OUR  CHEF'S  BEST  RECEIPTS. 


57 


Orange  Pie 

Peel  the  oranges  and  slice  them  thin  with  a  very  sharp 
knife,  removing' the  seeds.  Pare  some  apples,  cover  them, 
and  slice  very  thin.  Cover  a  pie  plate  with  rich  pastry,  and 
put  in  a  layer  of  the  oranges,  covering  them  with  white  sugar. 
Alternate  with  layers  of  sliced  apples,  until  the  pie  plate  is 
filled,  always  adding  sugar  to  each  layer  of  fruit.  Cover  the 
pie  with  pastry,  bake  it  for  half  an  hour  in  a  hot  oven,  and 
sift  white  sugar  over  the  crust  when  baked. 

—Mrs.  G.  W.  Fairbrother. 

Pineapple  Pie 

1  can  grated  pineapple  5  eggs 

\  cup  butter  1  cup  sweet  cream 

1  cup  sugar 

Cream  butter,  sugar  and  yolks  of  eggs  together,  add  cream 
and  pineapple.  Bake  with  under  crust.  Beat  whites  of  eggs, 
add  4  tablespoons  sugar,  spread  on  top  and  brown.  Makes 
three  pies.  — Mrs.  Michand. 

Pineapple  Pie 

1  large  pineapple  2£  cups  of  sugar 

2  cups  water 

Chop  the  pineapple  fine,  add  sugar  and  water.  Line 
three  large  pie  plates  with  crust  and  fill.  Sprinkle  over  a 
little  flour  and  butter,  and  add  an  upper  crust.  A  little 
fresh  lemon  juice  improves  it.  — Mrs.  C.  C.  0. 

Potato  Pie 

1  teacup  grated  raw  potato        3  eggs 

1  quart  of  milk  Sugar  and  nutmeg  to  taste 

Boil  the  milk  and  stir  in  the  potatoes.    When  cool  add 
the  eggs,  sugar  and  nutmeg.    Bake  without  upper  crust. 
6 


58 


OUR  CHEF'S  BEST  RECEIPTS. 


Prepared  Lemon  for  Tarts 

One-fourth  lb.  of  butter,  1  lb.  of  loaf  sugar,  6  eggs,  leav- 
ing out  the  whites  of  2;  the  rind  of  2  lemons,  and  juice  of  3. 
Whip  eggs  light,  put  all  into  a  pan,  and  simmer  over 
moderate  fire  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved  and  all  becomes  the 
consistency  of  honey.  Put  in  Mason  jars,  and  keep  in  a  cool, 
dry  place. 

This  quantity  doubled  just  fills  a  quart  and  pint  jar. 

—Mrs.  G.  R.  FernaJd,  Detroit. 

Raisin  Pie 

1  sliced  lemon 

1  tablespoonful  of  cornstarch 

cooked,  then  bake  with  two  crusts. 

— M.  S.  G. 

Rhubarb  Pie 

1  cup  chopped  pieplant  1  egg,  well  beaten 

1  cup  sugar 

1  teaspoon  butter,  a  little  salt,  and  a  shake  of  flour  the  last 
thing. 

Beat  the  egg,  add  the  sugar,  then  the  salt  and  chopped 
pieplant.  Pour  into  a  plate  lined  with  paste,  add  the  butter 
broken  in  small  pieces,  and  lastly  a  dust  of  flour. 

Cover  top  of  pie  with  narrow  strips  of  pastry,  and  bake. 

—Mrs.  J.  S.  Whitacre. 

Squash  Pie 

1  heaping  cup  prepared  squash  2  eggs,  beaten  light 
^  teaspoon  cinnamon  §  cup  sugar 

£  teaspoon  nutmeg  2  cups  milk 

^  teaspoon  ginger 

— Mrs.  Oliver  Crosby. 


1  cup  of  sugar 
1  cup  of  water 
1  cup  of  raisins 

Boil  all  until 


4 


OUR  CHEF'S  BEST  RECEIPTS. 


59 


Squash  Pie 

1  cup  of  squash  J  teaspoon  ginger 

1  cup  sugar  1  teaspoon  lemon  extract 

1  cup  milk,  scalded  2  eggs 

Butter,  size  of  walnut 

Mix  squash,  butter,  sugar,  yolks  of  eggs.  Add  lemon 
extract,  ginger  and  milk.  Bake  with  one  crust,  using  whites 
with  3  tablespoons  of  sugar  for  the  top.     — Miss  Sauvinet. 


60 


OUR  CHEF'S  BEST  RECEIPTS. 


DESSERT 

CHAPTER  IX 

"We  sit  to  chat  as  well  as  eat." 

— Taming  of  the  Shrew. 

Annie's  Snowballs 

i  box  of  gelatine  (Knox)  \  pint  boiling  water 

\  pint  cold  water  2  cups  sugar 

Flavor  with  lemon  or  vanilla.  When  cool  add  the  well- 
beaten  whites  of  4  eggs.  Beat  hard  until  it  is  as  thick  as 
whipped  cream.  Put  into  sherbet  cups  to  mould.  When  cold 
turn  out  in  a  large  dish  and  pour  custard  around  them. 
Very  nice. 

Apple  Scallop 

Pare  and  core  4  good-sized  tart  apples.    Put  a  layer  of 

bread  crumbs  in  pudding  dish,  a  layer  of  sliced  apples,  theu 

a  layer  of  English  walnuts,  then  a  sprinkling  of  sugar,  then 

crumbs,  and  so  continue  until  dish  is  full,  having  last  layer 

of  crumbs.    Pour  over  \  cup  water  and  bake  \  hour.  Serve 

hot.  — Mrs.  Rorer. 

Apple  Snow 

1  large  sour  apple,  grated ;  f  cup  powdered  sugar  on  the 
apple  as  you  grate,  and  beat  all  together  till  very,  very  light 
— an  hour.  Serve  with  whipped  cream  or  custard.  Very 
nice  frozen  a  very  little.  — M.  S.  Gilbert. 

Banana  Cream 

Take  5  large  bananas,  skin  and  mash  them  to  a  pulp, 
with  5  ounces  of  sugar.  Whip  \  pint  cream,  add  bananas,  \ 
wine  glass  of  brandy  and  the  juice  of  2  lemons,  grated  rind 
of  1.  Add  \  ounce  of  gelatine  (that  has  soaked  for  1  hour  in 
cold  water),  dissolved  in  a  little  hot  water.  Beat  all  together 
thoroughly,  nil  a  mould  and  set  in  ice  4  or  5  hours. 


OUR  CHEF'S  BEST  RECEIPTS. 


61 


Baked  Indian  Pudding 

1  qt.  sweet  milk  \  cup  sugar,  brown 

1  cup  meal  Butter  size  of  a  nut 

\  cup  molasses  \  teaspoon  of  salt 

3  eggs 

Boil  the  milk  and  stir  the  meal  into  the  boiling  milk. 
After  this  cools  acid  the  well-beaten  eggs,  molasses,  sugar,  and 
butter  and  salt.    Bake  one  hour.  — E.  E.  W. 


Baked  Plum  Pudding 

1  loaf  baker's  bread  (large)        1  teaspoon  allspice 

2  quarts  milk  1  small  nutmeg 
8  eggs  1  pint  raisins 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon  1  lemon  (rind  grated) 

1  teaspoon  cloves 

Soak  the  bread  in  the  milk,  add  the  well-beaten  eggs,  and 
sweeten  to  taste,  and  a  large  piece  of  butter.  More  fruit  if 
wished.  Bake  4  or  5  hours  in  a  moderate  oven,  stirring 
occasionally  until  it  begins  to  bake,  to  keep  fruit  from  set- 
tling.   Serve  with  hard  sauce.         — Mrs.  H.  M.  Temple. 


Batter  Pudding 

Fill  a  deep  dish  with  apples,  cut  in  slices  (or  any  other 
fruit  can  be  used).  Sprinkle  them  with  sugar  and  bits  of 
butter,  nutmeg  or  cinnamon.    Pour  over  the  fruit  a 

Batter 

2  cups  of  flour  3  teaspoons  baking  powder 

1  cup  of  milk  1  tablespoon  melted  butter 

Stir  well,  and  pour  over  the  fruit  and  bake. 

To  be  eaten  with  a  stirred  sauce  or  cream  and  sugar. 

— M.  L.  W. 


62 


OUR  CHEF'S  BEST  RECEIPTS. 


Batter  Pudding  and  Strawberry  Sauce 

1  cup  sweet  milk  2  tablespoons  of  butter 

2  eggs  2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder 

Thicken  with  flour,  like  fritters.    Steam  half  an  hour. 

Sauce 

10  tablespoons  of  pulverized    2  tablespoons  of  butter 
sugar 

Beat  very  light,  and  cut  strawberries  in  half  and  stir  in  the 
sauce  till  red  and  rich  with  berries. 

— Mrs.  G.  Van  Cleve,  Ypsilanti. 

Black  Raspberry  Pudding 

Spread  slices  of  bread  with  butter.  Put  a  layer  of  bread 
and  butter  in  a  dish,  then  a  layer  of  black  raspberries,  either 
fresh  or  canned,  until  the  dish  is  full.  Then  heat  the  syrup 
and  pour  over  it.  If  fresh  berries  are  used  make  a  syrup  of 
berries  and  sugar.  Put  a  plate  over  the  pudding,  and  an 
iron  for  a  weight.  Serve  cold,  with  cream.  A  very  nice 
summer  pudding. 

Bread  Pudding 

2  cups  milk  Kind  of  1  lemon 

4  tablespoons  sugar  Little  squares  of  bread,  but- 

Yolks  of  4  eggs  tered 

White  of  1 

Bake,  and  when  done  beat  remaining  whites  with  little 
sugar  and  the  juice  of  lemon.    Serve  hot  or  cold. 

— Mrs.  Brand. 
Bread  and  Butter  Pudding- 
Out  as  many  slices  of  bread  as  will  cover  a  pudding  dish, 
spread  with  butter,  sprinkle  a  few  well-washed  currants  over 
the  bread.    Beat  up  three  eggs  to  a  pint  of  milk,  sweeten 
to  taste,  add  a  little  nutmeg  or  cinnamon,  and  bake. 

— M.  L.  W. 


OUR  CHEF'S  BEST  RECEIPTS. 


68 


Baked  Apples 


Pare,  core  and  cut  in  thin  slices  the  apples,  sprinkle  sugar 
between  each  layer,  and  bake.  They  will  be  candied  and 
excellent. 


Pat  crumbs  into  milk,  sugar  and  chocolate.  Let  boil  and 
add  yolks  of  eggs.  When  thick  like  custard  pour  in  a  pud- 
ding dish,  cover  with  the  whites,  beaten  stiff  with  sugar,  and 
brown  in  oven.    Eat  either  hot  or  cold. 

Chocolate  Custard  to  Use  up  the  Yolks  of  Eggs 
1  quart  milk  6  eggs,  yolks  well  beaten 

1  cup  sugar  Pinch  of  salt 

4  squares  of  chocolate,  grated     1  teaspoon  of  vanilla 

Boil  the  milk  before  using  if  you  wish  your  custard  per- 
fectly smooth.  Mix  all  well  together,  and  bake  half  an  hour 
or  until  firm.  Be  sure  the  oven  is  not  too  hot.  Very  nice 
with  whipped  cream. 


Chocolate  Bread  Pudding 


10  tablespoons  bread  crumbs     1  pint  milk 
6  tablespoons  grated  chocolate   4  eggs 
1  cup  sugar  1  teaspoonful  vanilla 


Chocolate  Pudding 


1  quart  milk 

1  cake  sweet  chocolate 

\  cup  cornstarch 


1  cup  sugar 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 

4  eggs,  the  yolks 


Cook  in  a  double  boiler 


Sauce 


1  pint  cream,  whipped 
1  teaspoon  vanilla 


4  eggs,  whites 

3  tablespoons  of  sugar 


Clara's  Graham  Pudding 


1  cup  molasses 
1  cup  buttermilk 
\  teaspoon  salt 


1  teaspoon  soda 

2  cups  graham  flour 

1  cup  stewed  prunelles 


Steam  2  hours. 


64 


OUR  CHEF'S  BEST  RECEIPTS. 


Christmas  Plum  Pudding  (Excellent) 

1  cup  of  finely  chopped  beef    2  cups  fine  bread  crumbs 

suet  1  heaping  cup  of  sugar 

1  cup  seeded  raisins  1  cup  well  washed  currants 

1  cup  chopped  blanched  al-    ^  cup  of  citron,  sliced  thin 

monds  1  teaspoonful  of  salt 

1  teaspoonful  of  cloves  2  teaspoonfuls  of  cinnamon 

i  nutmeg,  grated  4  eggs,  well  beaten 

Dissolve  a  level  teaspoonful  of  soda  in  1  tablespoonful  of 
warm  water. 

Flour  the  fruit  thoroughly  from  a  pint  of  flour,  then  mix 
the  remainder  as  follows :  In  a  large  bowl  put  the  well -beaten 
eggs,  sugar,  spices  and  salt.  In  1  cup  of  milk  stir  in  the 
fruit,  chopped  nuts,  bread  crumbs,  and  suet,  one  after 
another,  until  all  are  used,  putting  in  the  dissolved  soda  last, 
and  adding  enough  flour  to  make  the  fruit  stick  together, 
which  will  take  all  the  pint  of  flour.  Boil  or  steam  four 
hours.    Serve  with  wine  or  brandy. 

— Mrs.  T.  J.  Campbell,  Merriam  Park. 


Christmas  Pudding" 

1  lb.  raisins 
1  lb.  suet 


1  lb.  currants 
1  lb.  sugar 

1  lb.  English  sultanas 
1  lb.  bread  crumbs 
\  lb.  Jordan  almonds 
6  nutmegs 
12  eggs 
1  lemon,  juice  and  rind 

Chop  separately  suet,  raisins,  sultanas,  almonds,  peel  of 
lemon,  and  candied  peel,  add  flour  and  bread  crumbs,  spices 
last.  Put  in  buttered  moulds,  and  steam  6  hours.  Enough 
for  three  puddings.  — Mrs.  H.  Twyford. 


1  lb.  flour 

^  lb.  mixed  candied  peel 

1  teaspoon  each  of  allspice  and 

cinnamon 
1  cup  molasses 


OUR  CHEF'S  BEST  RECEIPTS. 


65 


Cranberry  Cream 

2    tablespoons    of    gelatine,    1  pint  cranberries 
cover  with  4  tablespoons    1  cup  sugar 
of  cold  water 

Put  the  cranberries  into  a  saucepan,  add  enough  water  to 
keep  from  burning,  and  cover  tight,  as  soon  as  they  pop  press 
through  the  colander,  add  the  sugar,  then  the  gelatine,  stand 
in  a  pan  of  ice  water  till  it  begins  to  thicken,  and  then  stir  in 
a  pint  of  whipped  cream,  and  pour  into  a  mold. 

Miss  M.  E.  W. 

Cream  Batter  Pudding 

i  pint  sour  cream  \  pint  sweet  milk 

\  pint  flour  3  eggs 

1  teaspoon  soda 

Beat  the  whites  and  the  yolks  of  eggs  separately,  and  add 
the  whites  last.  Bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven.  This  is  the 
queen  of  batter  puddings. 

Sauce 

\  cup  butter  1  cup  sugar 

Stir  to  a  cream  and  flavor  with  a  teaspoonful  of  vanilla  or 
a  tablespoon  of  brandy.  — Mrs.  F.  I.  Whitney. 

Diplonot  Pudding 

2  eggs,  yolks  1  wine  glass  maraschino  sauce 
\  cup  sugar                            1  pint  whipped  cream 

i  cup  milk 

Beat  the  eggs  very  light,  and  add  the  sugar  and  milk. 
Pour  in  a  double  boiler,  place  on  the  stove  and  beat  con- 
stantly until  the  custard  begins  to  thicken,  then  add  the 
maraschino  sauce  and  remove  from  the  fire  and  beat  until 
cold.  Add  the  whipped  cream,  put  in  a  freezer,  and  when 
half  frozen  add  maraschino  cherries,  cut  fine,  and  freeze  3 
hours.  It  can  be  packed  in  a  mould  if  one  chooses.  Flavor 
with  sherry  wine.  — Mr.  H.  M.  Temple. 


66 


OUR  CHEF'S  BEST  RECEIPTS. 


Danish  Pudding 

1  pint  cream  8  eggs,  beaten  together 

1  pint  milk  -J-  cup  sugar 

Flavor  with  vanilla.  Boil  until  it  thickens.  Stir  in  two 
cups  brown  sugar  which  has  been  scorched.  Pour  into 
baking  dish,  set  in  pan  of  hot  water,  and  bake  until  firm — 
about  ^  hour.    Serve  with  whipped  cream. 

—Mrs.  B.  H.  Ogden. 

English  Plum  Pudding 

1  cup  seeded  raisins  1  cup  suet,  chopped  fine 

1  cup  cm-rants  1  heaping  cup  of  flour 

2  eggs  Citron  size  of  an  egg 

1  cup  sugar  Cinnamon,  cloves,  nutmeg 

A  little  brandy,  to  keep  moist,  with  enough  water  to  wet 

up. 

Boil  4  or  5  hours.    Serve  with  liquid  or  hard  sauce. 

—Mrs.  N.  B.  Taylor. 

Estelle  Pudding 

3  eggs,  well  beaten  2-J-  tablespoons  sugar 

2  tablespoons  butter  f  cup  sweet  milk 

1  cup  chopped  raisins  1  tablespoon  baking  powder 

Flour  to  make  it  the  consistency  of  cake  batter. 
Steam  35  minutes,  and  serve  with  sauce. 

Half  Hour  Pudding 

1  cup  powdered  sugar  4  tablespoons  butter 

3  eggs  1  cup  corn  meal 

Hub  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream,  add  the  yolks  of  the 
eggs.  Then  the  corn  meal  and  whites  of  eggs,  beaten  stiff. 
Bake  in  a  pudding  dish,  well  buttered.  Serve  with  hard 
sauce. 


OUR  CHEF'S  BEST  RECEIPTS 


67 


Ginger  Cream 

\  box  gelatine  4  eggs,  the  yolks 

•J  cup  cold  water  \  cup  sugar 

1  pint  milk  1  teaspoon  salt 

Soak  the  gelatine  in  the  cold  water  for  20  minutes.  Boil 
the  milk  and  add  the  well-beaten  yolks,  sugar  and  salt.  Cook 
until  it  thickens  like  custard.  Add  the  gelatine,  strain  into 
a  pan,  and  set  on  ice.  Add 

1  tablespoon  wine  \  or  \  cup  ginger,  cut  in 

1  tablespoon  brandy  small  pieces 

\  cup  ginger  syrup 

When  thick  add  1  pint  cream,  whipped.  Pour  into  a 
mould.  — Mrs.  Whitehead. 


John's 

2  cups  of  chopped  bread 
\  cup  of  molasses 
1  cup  of  raisins 
\  teaspoon  of  cloves 
1  teaspoon  of  cinnamon 

Boil  2  hours  in  a  tin  puddi 
sauce. 


Delight 

1  cup  s  weet  milk 
1  egg 

\  teaspoon  of  soda 
A  little  salt 
A  little  mace 

ig  boiler.  Serve  with  foaming 
— Mrs.  Wm.  Peck,  Detroit. 


Maids  of  Honor 

\  lb.  butter  \  lemon 

\  lb  fine  sugar  \  ounce  fine  sago 

4  eggs 

Wash  salt  out  of  butter,  heat  sugar  and  butter  until  luke- 
warm. Add  4  eggs,  one  at  a  time,  and  juice  of  half  lemon. 
Heat  over  fire  until  quite  warm,  but  not  hot.  Take  from 
stove,  add  sago,  let  stand  3  days.  Fill  tartlet  pans  with  puff 
paste,  and  bake.  — M.  Vanderslues. 


68 


OUR  CHEF'S  BEST  RECEIPTS. 


Manchester  Pudding 

1  quart  boiling  milk  f  lb.  bread  crumbs 

6  tablespoons  of  sugar  1  tablespoon  of  butter 

3  eggs  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

2  cups  of  fruit 

Put  tbe  fruit  (fresh  or  canned)  into  a  pudding  dish,  and 
pour  the  batter  over  it.  Steam  2  hours.  Serve  with  hard 
sauce.  — Miss  Alice  Gilbert,  Ypsilanti. 

Orange  Cream 
1  pint  of  cream  A  little  of  the  grated  orange 

Yolks  of  3  eggs  rind 
Juice  of  3  oranges  1  cup  sugar 

1  ounce  of  gelatine 

Soak  gelatine  in  \  cup  cold  water.  Grate  rind  and 
squeeze  the  juice  out  of  the  oranges.  Put  half  of  the  cream 
in  a  double  boiler.  Add  the  beaten  eggs  and  sugar.  When 
it  begins  to  thicken  add  the  gelatine.  When  cool  add  the 
orange  juice  and  rind,  beat  the  remaining  cream  and  add. 
Put  in  moulds  and  serve  with  whipped  cream. 

Orange  Puffs 

1  cupful  milk 

2  cupfuls  flour 
2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Sauce 

Juice  and  rind  of  2  oranges 
Serve  while  puffs  are  hot 

Prune  Whip 

\  lb.  prunes 


Yolks  of  3  eggs 
1  cupful  sugar 
\  cupful  butter 

Whites  of  3  eggs 
1  cupful  of  sugar 


Whites  of  10  eggs 
1  cup  sugar 

Cook  prunes  slowly  and  not  too  soft — just  swell  them. 
Remove,  crack  and  blanch  pits  and  chop  both  prunes  and 
meats.  Stir  all  together  and  brown  in  oven.  Serve  with  ice 
cream  or  whipped  cream. 

— Mrs.  J.  C.  Seyster,  Oregon,  HI. 


OUR  CHEF'S  BEST  RECEIPTS. 


69 


Orange  Pudding 

4  large  oranges  1  cup  of  sugar 

Out  the  oranges  into  small  pieces,  add  the  sugar  and  let 
stand. 

1  quart  milk  2  large  tablespoons  cornstarch 

After  it  boils  add  the  yolks  of  3  well -beaten  eggs.  Let 
this  cool,  then  pour  it  over  the  oranges.  Spread  over  it  a 
frosting  made  of  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  and  3  tablespoons  of 
granulated  sugar.    Set  into  the  oven  a  few  moments  to  brown. 

— M.  S.  Gilbert. 

Pineapple  Cream 

One-half  box  of  gelatine,  soaked  10  minutes  in  \  cup  cold 
water,  and  dissolve  in  \  cup  boiling  water;  1  can  grated 
pineapple  (add  sugar  if  necessary) ;  1  lemon. 

Put  the  mixture  in  a  dish  and  set  it  on  the  ice.  Stir 
constantly  until  it  thickens,  then  add  1  pint  whipped  cream. 
Pour  into  a  mould  and  set  away  to  harden.  Serve  with 
whipped  cream,  colored  a  light  pink. 

—Mrs.  J.  S.  Whitacre. 

Pineapple  Sponge 

\  box  gelatine  1  cup  sugar 

1  can  grated  pineapple 

Cook  sugar  and  pineapple  in  double  boiler  until  tender. 
Dissolve  gelatine  in  1  cup  warm  water,  and  beat  into  pine- 
apple and  whip  until  very  light  color,  and  thoroughly  cool. 
Stir  in  a  pint  of  whipped  cream  and  put  in  a  mould. 

—J.  B.  D. 

Plum  Pudding 

1  egg  1  teaspoon  soda 

1  cup  sugar  1  teaspoon  nutmeg 

1  cup  molasses  2  teaspoons  cinnamon 

1  cup  chopped  raisins  3  or  3^  cups  flour 

1  cup  currants  Pinch  of  salt 

1  cup  sour  milk 

Steam  3  hours.  — Mrs.  Gibson. 

7 


TO 


OUR  CHEF'S  BEST  RECEIPTS. 


Plum  Pudding 


1  cup  molasses 
1  cup  sweet  milk 
1-^  cups  graham  flour 
1  cup  seeded  raisins 


1  teasjooon  soda 
1  egg 
Cinnamon 
I-  teaspoon  salt 


1  tablespoon  butter 

Steam  2  hours  (I  always  steam  it  4  hours).    Keeps  well. 

— Mrs.  M.  L.  Countryman. 

Raisin  Puffs 

1  heaping  tablespoon  butter       2  heaping  tablespoons  sugar 

2  eggs  1  cup  water 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder         1  cup  raisins,  chopped  fine 

Beat  sugar  and  butter  to  a  cream,  add  the  eggs,  beaten 
light,  add  water  and  flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff  batter, 
reserving  enough  to  flour  raisins  well.  Steam  1  hour  in  cups, 
and  serve  hot  with  wine  sauce.        — Mrs.  H.  M.  Temple. 

Sponge  Pudding 

(Very  fine.) 

2  large  tablespoons  of  sugar  2  large  tablespoons  of  butter 
6  eggs  4  very  large  spoons  of  sifted 

2  teacups  of  sweet  milk  winter -wheat  flour 

Scald  the  milk  or  cook  to  a  scald,  while  hot  add  butter, 
then  sugar,  and  flour  mixed  with  a  little  cold  water  or  milk. 
Stir  well  until  it  boils,  remove  it  from  the  fire  and  add  yolks 
of  the  eggs  beaten  stiff,  last  the  whites.  Pour  into  a  buttered 
pudding  dish,  and  set  in  a  pan  of  hot  water.  Bake  one  hour 
in  a  moderate  oven. 


cream 

Add  gradually  \  cup  boiling  water.  Set  in  a  pan  of  hot 
water  to  dissolve,  then  add  the  well -beaten  white  of  1  egg 


1  cup  sugar 


Sauce 

-§  cup  butter,   stirred  to  a 


and  vanilla. 


— Mrs.  Folsom. 


OUR  CHEF'S  BEST  RECEIPTS. 


71 


Ruby  Cream 

J  pint  tapioca  4  ounces  sugar 

Rind  and  juice  of  1  lemon  pint  currant  jelly 

\\  pints  water 

Soak  tapioca  in  -J-  pint  cold  water  over  night.  Simmer  the 
tapioca  and  lemon  rind  in  1  pint  water  until  clear.  Skim 
out  pieces  of  rind  and  stir  in  sugar  jelly  and  lemon  juice. 
Cook  a  few  minutes  and  pour  in  dish  for  serving.  Just 
before  serving  put  whipped  cream  over  top,  or  a  meringue 
made  of  the  whites  of  4  eggs  and  powdered  sugar. 


Sponge  Cake  Pudding 

1  cup  flour  4  tablespoons  milk 

1  cup  granulated  sugar  1  teaspoon  cream  tartar 

3  eggs  \  teaspoon  soda 

Sift  flour  before  measuring,  mix  cream  of  tartar  with  it, 
and  sift  once  again.  Beat  eggs  very  light,  add  pinch  of  salt 
to  them,  add  sugar,  beating  again  as  in  sponge  cake,  add 
flour,  then  milk,  beating  constantly  till  perfectly  smooth. 
Just  before  putting  in  oven  add  soda,  which  has  been  put  in 
just  enough  boiling  water  to  dissolve  it.  Bake  in  moderate 
oven.  When  cold  cover  with  raspberry  jam,  and  eat  with 
cream,  not  whipped.  — Mrs.  Geo.  H.  Starhle. 


Sponge  Whips 

2  eggs,  beaten  separately  \  cup  milk 

H  cups  flour 
1  cup  sugar 

1  teaspoonful  cream  of  tartar 
Flavor.    Bak^e  in  gem  tins. 


\  teaspoon  soda 
3  dessertspoonfuls  butter 
\  teaspoonful  salt 

Take  off  the  center  of  top  of 


each,  dig  out  some  of  the  cake,  fill  with  a  spoonful  whipped 
cream,  put  top  on  again  and  frost  them. 


72 


OUR  CHEF'S  BEST  RECEIPTS. 


Steamed  Graham  Pudding 

2  cups  graham  flour  1  egg 

1  cup  molasses  cup  sugar 

1  cup  sour  milk  1    (large)   cup   raisins  and 

2  small  teaspoons  soda  currants 

Steam  3  hours  and  serve  with  a  rich  pudding  sauce. 

— Miss  Shandrew. 


Steamed  Chocolate  Pudding 

1  egg  -J  cup  sugar 

1  cup  flour  \  cup  milk 

\\  squares  chocolate  1  small  teaspoon  butter 

1  teaspoon  baking  powder  Steam  constantly  one  hour 

Sauce. 

3  eggs,  beaten  separately  1  cup  sugar 

Steam  yolks  and  sugar  one -half  hour,  and  add  beaten 
whites.   When  ready  to  serve  flavor  to  taste. 

— Mrs.  T.  J.  Campbell,  Merriam  Park. 


Steam  Pudding-  with  Gooseberries 

f  cup  milk  1  egg 

f  cup  sugar  3.  teaspoons  of  baking  powder 

Flour  to  make  a  batter  thin  as  cake  batter.  Steam  from 
20  to  30  minutes.  Take  pint  can  of  gooseberries,  drain  off 
most  of  the  syrup  and  put  in  pudding  dish,  pouring  the  batter 
over  before  steaming.    Eat  with  a  rich  sauce. 

Patsy's  Sugar  Sauce 
1  tablespoon  cornstarch  2  cups  white  sugar 

1  tablespoon  flour  1  cup  butter,  small  cup 

Stir  all  together  till  very  light,  and  pour  hot  water  on. 

—Mrs.  F.  I.  W. 


OUR  CHEF'S  BEST  RECEIPTS. 


73 


Tutti  Frutti 

One-gallon  glass  candy  jar,  with  glass  stopper.  Put  in  it 
1  pint  of  best  alcohol,  weigh  fruits  and  add  to  them  an  equal 
amount  of  sugar.  Let  stand  for  awhile  before  putting  in  the 
jar.  You  can  add  fruits  as  the  season  advances  until  jar  is 
full.  Strawberries,  black  cherries  and  pineapple  make  the  best 
flavor  and  color,  but  other  solid  fruits  may  be  added.  This 
will  keep  without  sealing  for  any  length  of  time. 

— Mrs.  Newcomb. 


Whortleberry  Pudding 

\  pint  of  molasses  2  quarts  of  berries 

1  cup  of  milk  1  teaspoon  of  saleratus  in  the 

1  quart  of  flour  molasses 
Steam  2  hours.    Eat  with  a  hard  sauce. 

— Mrs.  Hurd. 


PUDDING  SAUCES 


1  box  of  gelatine 
1  lemon 
1  cup  sherry 
Strawberries 

Soak  gelatine  10  minutes  in  cold  water,  add  boiling  water, 
sugar  and  juice  of  lemon.  When  cool  add  sherry.  Add  the 
well-beaten  whites,  a  spoonful  at  a  time,  beating  until  a  light 
sponge.  Wet  a  bowl-shaped  mould  with  cold  water  and  line 
with  the  berries,  filling  in  the  center  with  the  jelly.  Eoll 
each  berry  in  powdered  sugar.  Set  on  ice  until  perfectly  cold. 
Loosen  the  edges  and  turn  out  on  a  cold  dish.  Serve  with 
powdered  sugar  and  cream,  or  whipped  cream. 

— Mrs.  Gibson. 


A  Delicious  Dessert 

2  cups  of  sugar 
2  cups  boiling  water 
Whites  of  6  eggs 


74 


OUR  CHEF'S  BEST  RECEIPTS. 


Almond  Wafers 

J  cup  butter  1  cup  powdered  sugar 

\  cup  milk  2  cups  floui* 

J  teaspoou  vauilla 

Spread  very  thin  on  a  baking  pan,  mark  in  squares, 
sprinkle  with  blanched  almonds  chopped  fine,  and  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  about  5  minutes.  As  soon  as  baked  set  pan  on 
back  of  stove  and  roll  each  square  cornerwise. 

— Mrs.  Keysor,  Omaha. 

Boiled  Indian  Pudding' 

One-fourth  pound  suet.  Chop  very  fine  and  mix  with  1 
quart  of  Indian  meal,  1  quart  milk,  boiled  with  a  little  cinna- 
mon. Strain  it  into  the  meal  while  hot,  add  \  pint  of 
molasses.  Let  this  cool,  then  mix  6  well-beaten  eggs  into  it, 
and  boil  4  hours.  Leave  room  in  pudding  bag  for  the  pud- 
ding to  swell.    Eat  with  syrup  and  butter. 

—Mrs.  Geo.  W.  Gilbert. 

Creamy  Sauce 

\  cup  butter  1  teaspoon  of  vanilla  (if  ex- 

1  cap  powdered  sugar  tract  is  used  add  4  more 

\  cup  cream  or  milk  tablesjroons  of  cream) 

4  tablespoons  of  wine,  or 

Beat  the  butter  to  a  cream,  add  the  sugar  gradually,  beat- 
ing all  the  while.  When  light  and  creamy,  gradually  add  the 
wine  and  then  the  cream,  a  little  at  a  time.  When  all  is 
beaten  smooth  place  the  bowl  in  hot  water  and  stir  till  the 
sauce  is  smooth  and  creamy  (no  longer,  it  will  take  only  a 
few  moments). 

This  is  a  delicious  sauce  and  will  be  white  and  foamy,  if 
well  beaten  and  not  kept  in  hot  water  long  enough  to  melt 
the  sugar.  — Mrs.  F.  I.  Whitney. 


OUR  CHEF'S  BEST  RECEIPTS. 


75 


Caramel  Custard  in  Cups 

3  eggs  3  tablespoons  sugar 

1^  cups  cream  1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Melt  4  tablespoons  of  sugar  till  a  light  brown,  pour  into  6 
custard  cups,  and  shake  quickly  so  as  to  cover  sides  and 
bottom.  Pour  in  the  custard  and  stand  them  in  a  pan  of  hot 
water,  and  bake  10  or  15  minutes,  or  until  they  are  set  in  the 
center.  Serve  in  the  cups  cold,  or  turn  out  while  hot  on 
individual  dishes  and  serve  very  cold.         — Mrs.  French. 

Foam  Sauce 

(A  rich  sauce  for  plum  pudding.) 

^  cup  butter  2  tablespoons  brandy 

1%  cups  sugar  1\  cups  boiling  water 

2  eggs 

Beat  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream,  add  well-beaten  eggs. 
Just  before  sending  it  to  the  table  pour  on  the  boiling  water. 

— Mrs.  M.  L.  Countryman. 

Hard  Sauce  (Fine) 

\  cup  butter  1  cup  powdered  sugar,  sifted 

i  cup  cream  or  milk 

Cream  butter,  add  slowly  the  sugar,  then  the  milk  very 
slowly,  1  teaspoon  of  flavoring.  When  hard  mould  and  put  in 
a  cool  place.  — Mrs.  Chad  wick,  Detroit,  Mich. 


Heavenly  Hash 

7  lbs.  ripe  currants  6  lbs.  sugar 

4  large  oranges  1^  lbs.  of  seeded  raisins 

Chop  the  orange,  peel  and  pulp,  and  the  raisins.  Add 
currants  and  sugar.    Boil  like  jam. 

— Miss  A.  Gilbert,  Ypsilanti,  Mich. 


76 


OUR  CHEF'S  BEST  RECEIPTS. 


Ice  Cream  Sauce 

1  cup  of  butter  Yolk  of  1  egg 

2  cups  powdered  sugar  2  tablespoonfuls  sherry 

Beat  butter  to  a  cream,  add  gradually  the  powdered  sugar 
and  the  yolk  of  egg,  with  the  sherry  last.  Serve  on  a  glass 
dish  and  cover  with  the  following : 

Whites  of  2  eggs  \  teaspoonful  lemon  extract 

Sugar  to  thicken  1  teaspoonful  vanilla 

Whip  whites  stiff,  add  the  sugar  and  flavoring.  Cover  the 
first  part  and  set  in  a  cool  place  to  thicken. 

Jersey  Lilies 

\  cup  butter  1  cup  powdered  sugar 

\  cup  milk  2  cups  flour 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  milk  and  flour.  Spread  very 
thin  on  a  baking  pan,  mark  in  squares,  and  bake  about  5 
minutes.  Put  on  back  of  stove  and  roll  each  square  into  a 
cornucopia,  one  end  very  tight,  the  other  with  the  corner 
turned  over  like  a  lily,  filling  it  with  whipped  cream. 

— Mrs.  Keysor,  Omaha. 

Lemon  Jelly 

\  box  gelatine  Grated  rind  of  3  lemons 

1  pt.  of  boiling  water  \  cup  lemon  juice 

1  large  cup  sugar 

Soak  gelatine  in  a  little  cold  water.  Steep  lemon  rind  in 
the  water  10  minutes,  add  sugar,  juice  and  gelatine.  Strain 
until  clear.  — Mrs.  Oliver  Crosby. 

Lemon  Sauce 

1  cup  of  sugar  \  cup  of  butter 

1  lemon,  juice  and  grated  rind    1  egg 

3  tablespoons  boiling  water 

Cook  in  double  boiler  until  thick. 


OUR  CHEF'S  BEST  RECEIPTS. 


77 


Maine  Pudding  Sauce 

1  cup  sugar  1  egg 

1  cup  butter  1  tablespoon  flour 

Beat  egg  separately,  cream  butter,  sugar  and  yolk  together. 
Stir  flour  in  the  dry  sugar.  Beat  all  together  and  just  at 
serving  time  pour  on  one  cup  boiling  water,  flavor,  and  beat 
hard. 

Orange  Omelet 

4  eggs  A  little  salt 

5  tablespoons  of  sugar  2  oranges 

2  tablespoons  of  butter 

Grate  rind  of  1  orange  on  1  tablespoon  of  sugar.  Pare 
and  cut  oranges  in  thin  slices,  and  sprinkle  with  2  tablespoons 
of  sugar.  Beat  whites  of  eggs  stiff,  add  sugar,  orange  rind, 
salt,  beaten  yolks,  and  2  tablespoons  of  orange  juice.  Put 
butter  in  hot  omelet  pan,  pour  in  mixture.  When  it  begins 
to  thicken  well  spread  o^ver  it  the  slices  of  orange  (no  juice). 
Fold  omelet  from  side  of  pan  over  the  oranges,  and  serve  on  a 
hot  dish.  —Miss  A.  H.  G. 

Pudding"  Sauce 

6  heaping  tablespoons    fine    3  even  tablespoons  butter 

sugar  2  eggs 

Beat  sugar  and  butter  to  a  cream,  add  the  well-beaten 
yolk,  and  beat  till  very  light,  then  add  the  well-beaten  whites 
of  eggs,  and  flavor.  ¥  — Mrs.  French. 

Strawberry  Shortcake 

Make  a  rich  baking-powder  dough  as  for  biscuit,  bake  in  a 
dripping  pan.  When  done  cut  it  open  and  butter  well, 
sweeten  berries,  and  let  stand  3  or  4  hours  before  wanted. 
Put  berries  on  lower  crust,  pour  over  juice,  put  on  top  layer, 
and  cover  with  berries  and  juice.  Serve  with  sugar  and 
cream.  —Mrs.  G.  W.  Fairbrother. 


78 


OUB  CHEF'S  BESf  RECEIPTS. 


Washin 

6  eggs 

1^  cups  flour 

Flavor  with  lemon. 


_ton  Pie 

2  cups  sugar 

1  tablespoon  baking  powder 
Bake  in  jelly  pans. 
Filling 

1  cup  sugar 

3  eggs,  yolks 


1  pt.  milk 
\  cup  flour 
Butter  size  of  an  egg 

Flavor  with  vanilla.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  add  3 
tablespoons  of  powdered  sugar,  for  a  meringue.  Spread 
smoothly  over  the  top  and  brown  in  the  oven. 

—Mrs.  G.  W.  Fail-brother. 


Wine 

\  box  gelatine 

1  pint  boiling  water 

1  cup  sugar 


Jelly 

|  cup  cold  water 
Juice  of  1  lemon 
1  cup  wine 

— Mrs.  Oliver  Crosby. 


OUR  CHEF'S  BEST  RECEIPTS. 


79 


FROZEN  DAINTIES 

CHAPTEE  X 
"Kefresh  my  heart  and  cool  ray  throat." 
A  Delicious  Fruit  Punch 

Put  1  pint  of  water,  1  pound  of  sugar  and  the  grated 
yellow  rind  of  1  lemon.  Boil  5  minutes,  strain,  and  while 
hot  slice  into  it  2  bananas;  add  1  grated  pineapple,  and  ^ 
pound  of  stoned  cherries.  When  ready  to  serve  add  the  juice 
of  6  lemons.  Put  in  the  center  of  your  punch  bowl  a  square 
block  of  ice;  pour  over  it  2  quarts  of  apollinaris,  add  the 
fruit  mixture,  and  at  the  last  moment  1  dozen  strawberries, 
and  mix  all  together.  — Mrs.  L.  P.  McCloud. 

Cafe  Mousse 
Yolks  of  5  eggs  i  cup  strong  coffee 

1  cup  sugar  1  pint  whipped  cream 

Pack  in  freezer  and  let  stand  4  or  5  hours. 

— Alice  Dawson. 

Cafe  Parfait 

1  pt.  whipping  cream  2  tablespoons  black  coffee 

Sugar  to  taste 

Whip  until  stiff.  Pat  into  a  colander  to  drain.  Pack  in 
ice  for  3  hours.  — Mrs.  Forster. 

Caramel  Ice  Cream 

1  pint  milk  1  quart  cream 

2  eggs  1  cup  sugar 
\  cup  flour  (scant) 

Beat  eggs,  sugar  and  flour  together,  add  to  the  milk.  Boil 
20  minutes.  Put  cup  sugar  in  iron  spider  and  brown  by 
stirring  briskly.  When  quite  brown  add  to  the  boiling- 
cream.    Let  cool,  add  1  quart  cream,  and  freeze. 

— Kate  D.  Williams 

8 


80 


OUR  CHEF'S  BEST  RECEIPTS. 


Chocolate  Ice  Cream 

1  quart  cream  5  tablespoons  chocolate, 

1  pint  new  milk  rubbed  smooth   in  a 

2  beaten  eggs  little  milk 

Heat  the  milk  almost  to  boiling  and  pour  slowly  iuto  eggs 
and  sugar.  Add  chocolate,  beat  well,  and  return  to  double 
boiler.  Heat  until  it  thickens,  stirring  constantly.  When 
cold  add  the  cream  and  2  teaspoons  vanilla. 

—Mrs.  J.  E.  Kicketts. 

Claret  Ice 

1  quart  claret  4  lemons 

4  oranges 

Sweeten  to  taste,  and  freeze. 

Coffee  Ice  Cream 

3  pints  cream  2  cups  sugar 

1  cup  black  coffee,  very  strong    2  tablespoonfuls  arrowroot 
and  clear  wet  up  with  cold  milk 

Heat  half  the  cream  nearly  to  boiling.  Stir  in  the  sugar. 
When  1  his  is  melted,  the  coffee,  then  the  arrowroot.  Boil  all 
together  5  minutes,  stirring  constantly.  When  cool  beat 
very  light,  whipping  in  the  rest  of  the  cream  by  degrees. 
Then  freeze. 

Cranberry  Sherbet 

1  qt.  cranberries  1  qt.  water 

1  lemon,  juice  2-J-  cups  sugar 

Boil  all  together,  strain  and  freeze.  Will  serve  ten  for 
meat  course,  or  particularly  nice  with  turkey. 

—Mrs.  Caldwell. 

Ginger  Sherbet 

To  1  pint  lemon  ice  add  3  ounces  of  preserved  ginger,  cut 
into  small  pieces,  and  a  little  of  the  ginger  syrup.  Stir  into 
the  frozen  ice  and  pack  for  1  hour. 


OUR  CHEF'S  BEST  RECEIPTS. 


81 


Frozen  Pudding 

1  generous  pint  of  milk  2  tablespoons  of  gelatine 

2  cups  sugar  1  quart  of  cream 

%  cup  flour  4  tablespoons  of  wine 

2  eggs  \  lb.  macaroons 

Beat  flour,  eggs  and  teacup  sugar  together,  add  to  milk 
and  boil  in  double  boiler  20  minutes.  Add  gelatine  which 
has  been  soaked  1  hour  in  water  enough  to  cover.  Set  aside 
to  cool.  When  cool,  add  wine,  the  remaining  cup  of  sugar 
and  the  cream.  Freeze  10  minutes  and  add  rolled  macaroons, 
and  finish  freezing.    May  add  any  kind  of  fruit,  if  desired. 

— Miss  Shandrew. 

Frozen  Rum  Punch 

1  pint  Jamaica  rum  3  lemons,  juice 

4  oranges  \  lb.  powdered  sugar 

1  teaspoonful  green  tea  1  tablespoon  Keystone  silver 

white  gelatine 

Boil  rum  and  sugar  5  minutes.  Add  lemon  and  orange 
juice  to  a  boil.  Dissolve  gelatine  in  this.  Steep  tea,  1  cup 
boiling  water,  strain  and  add  to  mixture.    When  cool,  freeze. 

—Mrs.  Kipp. 

Ice  Cream 

2  cups  of  whipping  cream         \  teaspoon  vanilla 

\  cup  powdered  sugar  1  tablespoon  of  gelatine 

■ — Mrs.  Kipp. 

Ice  Cream 

1  quart  cream  \  lb.  sugar 

2  teaspoons  vanilla 

Put  half  cream  and  sugar  on  to  boil  in  double  boiler.  Stir 
constantly  for  10  minutes.  When  cold  add  remainder  of 
cream  and  vanilla,  and  freeze.  — Mrs.  F.  N.  Lowell. 


82 


OUR  CHEF'S  BEST  RECEIPTS. 


Kinsley's  New  York  Ice  Cream 

1  quart  milk  2  tablespoons  cornstarch 

4  eggs,  yolks  1\  cups  sugar 

Boil,  then  take  from  stove  and  pour  3  pints  of  cream  into 
it  and  2  teaspoons  of  vanilla.    Let  cool  and  freeze. 

— Chicago. 

Lemon  Ice 

1  quart  fresh  milk  Whites  of  two  eggs,  beaten 

1  pint  of  sugar  stiff 

4  lemons  Candied  cherries 

Add  the  juice  of  the  lemons  and  cherries  when  nearly 
frozen.  — Anna  E.  Williams. 

Lemon  Ice 

1  quart  of  water  1  pint  sugar 

Boil  35  minutes.    When  cool  add  5  lemons,  and  freeze. 

— Mrs.  F.  I.  W. 

Orange  Ice 

1  cup  of  orange  juice  1  cup  of  sugar 

H  cups  of  water  1£  cups  of  water 

Add  the  1^  cups  of  water  to  the  orange  juice.  Melt  the 
sugar  in  the  cups  of  water.  One  lemon,  the  juice,-  strain 
when  mixed,  and  freeze.  Turn  the  freezer  slow  at  first, 
then  very  quickly  for  15  or  20  minutes. 

— Mrs.  I.  Kipp. 

Orange  Sherbet 

1  qt.  sweet  milk  1  coffee  cup  sugar 

Juice  of  4  oranges  and  1  lemon 

Freeze  milk  and  sugar  partly  before  adding  fruit. 

—Mrs.  T.  J.  C. 


il 


OUR  CHEF'S  BEST  RECEIPTS. 


S8 


Punch 

(Enough  for  seventy -five  people.) 

1  doz.  bottles  of  hock  2  doz.  lemons 

2  doz.  oranges  1  pint  of  Santa  Cruz  rum 

3  cans  of  pineapple 

To  every  bowlful  of  punch  add  1  bottle  of  champagne,  if 
wanted  extra  fine.    Good  without  champagne. 

Roman  Punch 

1  quart  lemon  ice  1  gill  sherry 

\  pint  Jamaica  rum  Whites  4  eggs 

\  pint  brandy 

Have  ice  frozen  hard.  Just  before  wanted  stir  in  the 
liquors  and  beat  hard.  Add  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  last. 
One-half  pint  of  champagne  is  an  improvement.  This  must 
be  frothy  and  not  frozen  hard — should  almost  pour. 

Sauce  for  Frozen  Pudding 

1  tablespoon  Knox's  Gelatine     1  pint  cream  or  milk 
Yolk  of  3  eggs  \  cup  of  sugar 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Cover  the  gelatine  with  a  little  cold  water  for  10  minutes. 
Boil  the  milk  or  cream  in  a  double  boiler.  Beat  the  yolks  of 
eggs  and  sugar  together  until  light,  add  to  boiling  cream  and 
stir  until  it  thickens.  In  this  dissolve  gelatine,  take  from  the 
fire,  add  the  vanilla  or  two  tablespoonfuls  of  brandy  or  sherry. 
Stand  in  a  cold  place  until  wanted. 

Three-of-a-Kind  Ice 

/  3  oranges  3  lemons 

3  cups  sugar  3  eggs,  the  whites 

Freeze.    This  will  serve  twenty. 

— Mrs.  ColviJle,  Cambridge,  Mass. 


84 


OUR  CHEF'S  BEST  RECEIPTS. 


CAKE 

CHAPTER  XI 

"Surprising!  that  woman  can  dish  us  so  many  rare  sweets  up 
together." 

We'll  mix  and  bake 

The  dainty  cake, 

And  beat  the  frosting  light. 

The  sweetest  plan 

To  please  a  man 

Is  through  his  appetite. 

Angel  Food 

Whites  of  11  eggs  1\  tumblers  granulated  sugar 

1  tumbler  flour  1  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar 

Sift  sugar  and  flour  together  four  times.  Break  eggs  over 
cream  of  tartar.  Beat  until  very  light.  Pour  eggs  on  flour 
and  sugar,  add  1  teaspoon  bitter  almond  flavoring,  and  stir 
with  silver  knife  as  little  as  possible.  Bake  45  minutes  in 
ungreased  pan.  — Alice  Dawson. 

Birkley  Sponge  Cake 
6  eggs  4  cups  sifted  flour 

3  cups  sugar  2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder 

1  cup  cold  water  Vanilla 

Beat  the  yolks,  sugar  and  half  the  water,  then  add 
remainder  of  water  and  beat  again.  Beat  the  whites  stiff, 
and  add  them  with  the  flour  gradually,  being  careful  not  to 
stir  more  than  enough  to  mix  thoroughly  and  quickly.  Put 
flavoring  and  a  pinch  of  salt  before  the  whites  and  flour. 

—Miss  Gilbert,  Detroit. 
Blueberry  Cake 
1\  cups  of  sugar  1  cup  sweet  milk 

\  cup  of  butter  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

2-J-  cups  of  flour  \\  cups  of  blueberries 

2  eggs 

Serve  hot  with  butter  — Miss  Doty,  Detroit. 


OUR  CHEF'S  BEST  RECEIPTS. 


85 


Birthday  Cake 

4  cups  flour,  sifted  2  cups  brown  sugar 

1  cup  butter  4  eggs 

1  cup  molasses  1  cup  sour  milk 
\  wine  glass  of  brandy  1  teaspoon  soda 

2  tablespoons  of  cinnamon  1  tablespoon  of  cloves 

2  lbs.  of  raisins  \  cup  flour,  to  sprinkle  over 

\  lb.  of  currants  the  fruit  before  putting 

f  lb.  of  citron  into  the  mixture. 

Bake  3  hours  in  a  moderate  oven,  in  a  6-quart  pan. 

— Mrs.  Lamson- 

Bread  Cake 

2  cups  of  bread  sponge  1  cup  butter 

2  eggs  1^  cups  sugar 

1  small  teaspoon  soda  \  cup  milk 

2  cups  stoned  and   chopped  2  cups  flour 

raisins  1  lb.  currants 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon  \  teaspoon  cloves 

Dissolve  the  soda  in  the  milk.    Add  milk  and  fruit  last. 

—Miss  E.  Whitney. 

Chocolate  Marble  Cake 

2  tablespoons  chocolate  1  tablespoon  butter 

Set  in  kettle  of  boiling  water  to  melt. 
\  cup  butter  1  cup  sugar 

\  cup  sweet  milk  6  eggs,  whites 

cups  flour  1  teaspoon  baking  powder 

Cream  the  sugar  and  butter,  add  slowly  the  milk,  whites 
of  eggs,  flour  and  baking  powder,  which  should  be  sifted 
into  the  flour.  Take  \  of  this  mixture  and  beat  into  it  the 
melted  butter  and  chocolate.  Drop  into  a  pan  alternately  1 
spoonful  of  white,  then  1  of  the  dark.    Bake  slowly. 

Mrs.  T.  J.  Campbell,  Merriam  Park. 


86 


OUR  CHEF'S  BEST  RECEIPTS. 


Chocolate  Cake 

1^  cups  sugar 
3  cups  sifted  flour 
1  teaspoon  baking  powder 
^  lb.  grated  chocolate 
Icing 

Stir  pulverized  sugar  into  a  little  cream  to  make  a  thick 
paste.  — Mrs.  Butcher. 

Christmas  Cake 


f  cup  butter 
1  cup  milk 
Whites  of  6  eggs 
1  teaspoon  vanilla 


5  eggs 
1  lb.  butter 
1  lb.  flour 
f  lb.  butter 
1  lb.  raisins 


1%  cups  butter 
4^  cups  flour 
1  tablespoon  cloves 
1  lb.  seeded  raisins 


1  lb.  dates,  chopped 
\  cup  sugar 
\  cup  cracker  crumbs 

Fine  to  pass  with  punch  or 


1  gill  wine 
1  gill  brandy 
1  gill  cream 
1  nutmeg 

— Mrs.  French. 

Clove  Cake 

3  cups  sugar 

1  cup  sweet  milk 

1  teaspoon  baking  powder 

1  tablespoon  cinnamon 

— S.  S.  Welch. 

Date  Cake 

\  lb.  almonds  or  English  wal- 
nuts, chopped 
6  eggs,  beaten  separately 
wine.  — Mrs.  Scholey. 


Delicate  Cake 
1  cup  cornstarch  2  cups  flour 

1  cup  butter  Whites  of  7  eggs 

2  cups  sugar  \  teaspoon  soda 

1  cup  sweet  milk  1  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar 

Rub  butter  and  sugar  together,  add  milk  and  soda,  then 
flour  and  cream  of  tartar  and  cornstarch,  then  whites  of  eggs. 

—Mrs.  C.  L.  Caldwell. 


OUR  CHEF' 8  BEST  RECEIPTS.  87 

Delicate  Cake 
Bake  in  square  tin,  cover  with  icing. 
1  lb.  sugar  Whites  of  14  eggs 

§  lb.  flour  \  teaspoon  soda 

6  ounces  butter  1  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar 

— S.  S.  Welch. 

Devil's  Cake 
1  cup  brown  sugar  \  cup  milk 

1  cup  granulated  chocolate 

Boil  in  double  boiler  until  dissolved.  Let  cool  and  add  to 
the  following  cake : 

1  cup  brown  sugar  \  cup  milk 

Yolks  of  3  eggs  \  cup  butter  (small) 

1  teaspoonful  soda  sifted  with    2  cups  flour 
the  flour 

Flavor  with  vanilla.  Bake  in  layers.  Frost  with  white 
icing. 

Filbert  Cake 

1  lb.  filberts,  unshelled  \  teaspoon  baking  powder 

\  lb.  almonds  3  tablespoons  grated  bread 

8  eggs  2-j-  cups  powdered  sugar 

1  lemon 

Beat  sugar,  yolks  of  eggs  very  light.  Add  grated 
almonds,  lemon  juice,  bread  crumbs,  grated  filberts,  and 
beaten  whites  last.  Frost  with  boiled  icing,  with  whole 
filberts  on  top.  — Mrs.  Michand. 

Four-Egg  White  Cake 

2  cups  sugar  4  eggs,  whites 

\  cup  butter  1  teaspoon  cream  tartar 

1  cup  sweet  milk  1  teaspoon  soda 

3  cups  flour 

Cream  of  tartar  in  the  flour  and  the  soda  in  the  milk. 
This  can  be  made  in  layers  or  a  loaf.  For  a  loaf  add  1  cup 
sliced  citron.  — Miss  M.  S.  Gilbert,  Detroit. 


88 


OUR  CHEF'S  BEST  RECEIPTS. 


Fried  Cakes 

1  cup  of  sugar  1  cup  milk 

2  eggs  2  teaspoons  baking  powder 
2  tablespoons  of  melted  short-  Nutmeg 

ening  Cinnamon 


Salt 


1  lb.  butter 
3^-  lbs.  currants 
\  lb.  citron 
\  cap  molasses 
1  teaspoon  cinnamon 
1  teaspoon  nutmeg 
Bake  %\  hours. 


2  lbs.  raisins 
1  lb.  citron,  shredded 
10  eggs 
1  lb.  flour 
\  cup  milk 
1  cup  brandy 
1  tablespoon  cloves 
\  tablespoon  allspice 

Bake  3  to  4  hours  in  slow  oven 


— Mrs.  Beach,  Ypsilanti,  Mich. 

Fruit  Cake 

1  lb.  sugar 
2-J-  lbs.  raisins 
10  eggs 

1    level    teaspoon    soda  in 
molasses 

1  teaspoon  cloves 

—Mrs.  R.  H.  Walker. 
Fruit  Cake 

2  lbs.  currants 
1  lb.  blanched  almonds 

1  lb.  butter 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder 
1  cup  molasses 
1  nutmeg 

1  tablespoon  cinnamon 


Makes  3  loaves. 

— Mrs.  Poore. 
Fruit  Salad  for  Cake  Filling 

4  tablespoons  of  finely  chopped   4  tablespoons  of  finely  chopped 

citron  raisins 
\  cup  almonds,  finely  chopped    \  lb.  of  figs,  finely  chopped 
3  eggs,  whites 

Beat  the  whites  stiff,  add  \  cup  of  sugar,  then  the  fruit, 
and  put  between  layers  of  cake  when  the  cake  is  hot. 

—Mrs.  Peek,  Detroit,  Mich. 


OUR  CHEF'S  BEST  RECEIPTS. 


89 


|  cup  of  sugar 
\  cup  of  molasses 
\  cup  of  butter 
\  cup  sour  milk 
2  eggs 
1  teaspoon  cinnamon 

Put  eggs  (well  beaten)  in  last.  Bake  in  a  small  dripping- 
pan,  to  make  a  loaf  about  \\  inches  thick.  Cover  with 
boiled  icing  and  put  away  in  a  tight  cake  box  with  an  apple 
for  2  days  before  cutting.  — Mrs.  M.  L.  Countryman. 


1  teaspoon  ginger 

1  teaspoon  lemon  extract 

1  cup  seeded  raisins 

2  cups  flour 

1  teaspoon  soda 


Ginger 

\  cup  brown  sugar 

1  cup  molasses 
A  pinch  of  salt 

2  small   teaspoons  soda  dis- 

solved in  1  cup  boiling 
water 
1  small  cup  raisins 

Line  pan  with  buttered  paper. 


Bread 

^  cup  butter 

1  teaspoon  each  ginger,  all- 
spice, cinnamon 

%\  cups  flour 

2  well-beaten   eggs   the  last 
thing 


Bake  \  hour. 

— Mrs.  McLaughlin. 


A  PPL 


IT  AS  TME 
PESTo 


o  o  o  o 


MANUFACTURED  BY 

The  Win,  Lindeke  Roller  Mills 


♦ 

90  OUR  CHEF'S  BEST  RECEIPTS. 


Ginger  Bread 

\  pint  molasses  1  tablespoon  ginger 

§  cnp  butter  2  teaspoons  soda  in  a  gill  of 

^  cnp  sour  milk  water 
Flour  to  make  batter  2  eggs 

1  dessertspoon  vinegar  — Mrs.  Brand. 

GiDger  Cake 

3  cups  light  brown  sugar  1  teaspoon  soda 

1  cup  butter  and  lard  mixed      2  teaspoons  ginger 

2  eggs  \  nutmeg 

4  tablespoons  sour  cream  5  cups  flour 

Bake  in  sheets  about  \  inch  thick.  Mark  with  fork. 
When  done  cut  in  squares.  .     — M.  L.  Perkins. 

Ginger  Cake 
\  cup  sugar  \  teaspoon  cloves 

1  cup  molasses  2  teasi^oons  soda,  in 

\  cup  butter  1  cup  boiling  water 

1  teaspoon  ginger  2  large  cups  flour 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon  2  well-beaten  eggs,  added  last 

Can  be  baked  in  gem  tins  and  eaten  hot  with  butter. 

—Mrs.  R.  H.  Walker. 
Hnldak's  White  Cake 

1  cup  sugar  -J-  cup  butter 
\  cup  sweet  milk                     l-§-  cups  flour 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder        Whites  of  3  eggs 
\  cup  currants 

Lemon  Loaf  Cake 
1  cup  butter  1  cup  sweet  milk 

3  cups  sugar  1  teaspoon  soda 
1  lemon  5  eggs 

4  cups  sifted  flour 

Cream  together  the  butter  and  sugar.  Add  slowly  the 
milk,  in  which  is  stirred  the  soda.  Grate  the  lemon  and 
squeeze  the  juice.    Stir  in  the  flour  last. 

— Mrs.  Shipman,  Washington,  D.  C. 


OUR  CHEF'S  BEST  RECEIPTS. 


91 


Marshmallow  Cake 

2  cups  sugar  \  cup  butter 

2f  cups  sifted  Hour  1  cup  sweet  milk 

3  small  teaspoons  baking  pow-    6  eggs,  whites 

der  40  marshmallows 

Eeserve  10  marshmallows  for  the  top.  To  the  30  add  1 
teaspoonful  of  hot  water,  set  over  the  teakettle,  and  stir  until 
they  are  melted.  When  cool  put  between  the  three  layers  of 
cake.  Frost  the  top  with  chocolate  frosting.  Cut  the  10 
marshmallows  in  half  and  place  over  the  top.     — M.  S.  G. 

Marshmallow  Paste  for  Cake 
f  cup  sugar  \  cup  milk 

\  lb.  marshmallows  2  tablespoons  hot  water 

Vanilla 

Boil  6  minutes,  beat  thoroughly  until  stiff  enough  to 
spread  between  the  layers.  — Miss  M.  S.  Y.,  Detroit. 

Marshmallow  Cake 
\  cup  butter  2^  cups  flour 

\\  cups  sugar  2    level    teaspoons  baking 

1  teaspoon  vanilla  powder 
\  cup  milk  5  eggs,  whites 

Filling 

Boil  f  cup  sugar  and  J  cup  milk  6  minutes.  Melt  by 
steaming  \  pound  marshmallows.  Add  2  tablespoons  hot 
water.  Put  the  two  together,  with  \  teaspoon  vanilla.  Beat 
well  and  spread  between  layers.  — Mrs.  F.  N.  Lowell. 

Marshmallow  Cake 
1  cup  butter  3  cups  flour 

7  eggs,  whites  2  cups  granulated  sugar 

1  heaping    teaspoon    baking    1  cup  milk 
powder 

Flavor  to  taste.  Eub  flour  and  butter  together.  Beat 
whites,  add  sugar  and  rest  of  ingredients,  and  bake  in  2 
layers.  Put  together  with  whipped  cream,  with  marshmal- 
lows that  have  been  heated.  — Mrs.  Michand. 


92 


OUR  CHEF'S  BEST  RECEIPTS. 


TOWLE'S  LOG  CABIN  MAPLE  SYRUP 

THE  STANDARD  FROM  OCEAN  TO  OCEAN. 


Absolutely  Pure 

The  Only  Syrup 
For  Cakes 
And  Waffles. 

For  richness  of  flavor  no  other 
brand  of  maple  syrup  equals 
it.  It  is  ABSOLUTELY  PURE 
AND  FULL  MEASURE,  and  is 
used  by  the  leading  families, 
hotels,  and  clubs  in  the  United 
States  

TRY  IT  ON 
YOUR  CAKES  AND  WAFFLES 
A  NO  BE  CONVINCED 

The  Towle  

Maple  Syrup  Co. 

BURLINGTON,  VT.    ST.  PAUL,  MINN. 


"Maude  S."  Cake 

l-1  cups  coffee  sugar  \  cup  of  milk 

\  (scant)  cup  of  butter  \  cup  of  flour 
3  eggs,  beaten  separately 

Rub  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream,  add  milk  and  flour, 
and  then  eggs.  Into  this  stir  the  chocolate  custard,  made  as 
follows : 

8  tablespoonfuls   of    Baker's    5  tablespoonfuls  sugar 
chocolate,  grated  \  cup  of  milk 

Cook  until  it  thickens  a  little,  and  beat  until  cool.  Stir 
into  the  cake  and  add : 

cups  flour  \\  teaspoonfuls  vanilla 

2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder 

Bake  in  moderate  oven  in  3  layers,  and  put  together  with 
boiled  icing. 


OUR  CHEF'S  BEST  RECEIPTS. 


93 


Mrs.  Miller's  Chocolate  Cake 

f  cup  of  sugar  £  cup  of  butter 

^  cup  of  sour  milk  1  teaspoon  of  soda 

1  egg  1  large  cup  of  flour 

Vanilla  2  squares  of  Baker's  chocolate 
Pour  over  it  \  cup  of  boiling  water,  and  let  stand  till  cool. 
Stir  in  the  last  thing. 

Mrs,  Perkins'  Ginger  Cake 

2  eggs  2  teaspoonfnls  soda 
1  cup  butter  and  lard  1  teaspoonful  ginger 
1  cup  sour  cream  1  teaspoon  cinnamon 
1  cup  sugar                            1  teaspoon  cloves 

1  cup  molasses  1  teaspoon  salt 

3|-  cups  flour 

Mrs.  Van  Dusen's  Improved  Sunshine  Cake 

7  eggs,  whites,  yolks  of  5  ^  teaspoon  cream  tartar 

1  cup  granulated  sugar  A  pinch  of  salt 

f  cup  flour 

Sift,  measure  and  set  aside  flour  and  sugar  as  for  angel 
cake.  Beat  yolks  of  eggs  thoroughly,  then  beat  the  whites 
about  half,  add  .  cream  tartar  and  beat  until  very,  very 
stiff.  Stir  in  sugar  lightly,  then  beaten  yolks  thoroughly, 
then  add  flour ;  put  in  a  tube  pan  in  the  oven  at  once.  Will 
bake  in  35  to  50  minutes.  Use  pastry  flour,  which  means  a 
pure  winter  wheat  flour. 

Mrs.  W.'s  Wedding  Cake 

1  lb.  granulated  sugar  f  lb.  butter 

1  lb.  flour  16  eggs,  whites 

Pound  Cake 

1  lb.  sugar  9  eggs 

1  lb.  flour  1  tablespoonful  brandy 

f  lb.  butter  — Mrs.  Benton. 


9 


94 


OUR  CHEF'S  BEST  JRECEIPTS. 


Neapolitan  Cake 

White  Part 

f  cup  of  cornstarch  1^  cups  of  pulverized  sugar 

2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder     §  cup  of  sweet  milk 

6  eggs,  whites  1%  cups  of  sifted  flour 

i  cup  of  butter  Dark  Part 

f  cup  brown  sugar  ^  cup  butter 

^  cup  strong  coffee  J  cup  molasses 

6  eggs,  the  yolks  1^  cups  sifted  flour 

J  teaspoon  cinnamon  f  of  a  teas}30on  of  soda 

Other  spices  to  taste  ^  lb.  of  raisins 

Citron  to  taste  -J-  lb.  of  currants 

This  makes  a  thick  layer  of  the  dark  to  be  put  between 
two  layers  of  the  white,  and  iced  between  and  on  the  top. 

Frosting 

1  egg,  white  Juice  of  2  lemons 

As  much  water  as  egg  A  little  of  the  grated  rind 

Stir  in  enough  confectionery  sugar  to  thicken.  A  very 
fine  recipe  if  followed  exactly.  — M.  S.  Gilbert. 

Nougat  Cake 

^  cup  of  Baker's  chocolate.    Melt  in  a  double  boiler.  Add 
\  cup  sweet  milk  1  cup  granulated  sugar 

1  egg,  thoroughly  beaten 

Cook  until  it  thickens,  then  cool. 

For  Cake 

1  cup  sugar,  granulated  1  scant  cup  of  butter 

2  eggs  1  cup  sweet  milk 

2-J-  cups  flour  2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder 

Stir  thoroughly  into  the  caramel,  a  portion  of  which 
reserve  for  the  icing.  Line  the  tins  with  paper,  which  must 
be  cut  large  enough  to  lift  the  cake  out,  as  it  is  too  tender 
to  take  out  the  usual  way.  Bake  carefully,  so  as  not  to 
burn  or  have  the  cake  hard.  — Mrs.'L.  0.  McCloud. 


OUR  CHEF'S  BEST  RECEIPTS 


95 


Nut  and  Almond  Cake 
1  cnp  milk 


3  full  cnps  flour  after  sifting 
1  teaspoon  almond 
1  lb.  English  walnuts 


2  cups  sugar 
\  cup  butter 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder 
5  eggs,  whites 
\  lb.  almonds,  blanched 

Save  enough  nuts  to  cover  the  top.  Chop  the  rest  fine  for 
the  dressing.  Dressing 

1  pint  milk  f  cup  sugar 

2  eggs  3  tablespoons  of  cornstarch 

Add  the  chopped  walnuts  and  almonds,  and  boil. 

— Mrs.  Mo  wry,  Detroit,  Mich. 


Cake 

2  teaspoons  soda 
1  teaspoon  cloves 

1  teaspoon  nutmeg 

2  teaspoons  cinnamon 
Flour  to  mix  stiff 


Pork 

f  lb.  salt  pork 
2  cups  brown  sugar 
1  cup  molasses 
1  lb.  seeded  raisins 
1  lb.  currants 
i  lb.  citron 

Dissolve  soda  in  molasses,  chop  pork  and  pour  over  it  1 
pint  boiling  water.  — Mrs.  F.  B.  Jerrard,  Superior. 

Prince  of  Wales'  Cake 

White  Part 

\  cup  cornstarch 
\  cup  butter 

1  large    teaspoonful  baking 
Black  Part  powder 

1  cup  brown  sugar 


1  cup  flour 
\  cup  sweet  milk 

1  cup  sugar 
Whites  of  3  eggs 
\  cup  butter 

2  cups  flour 

1  teaspoon  soda,  dissolved  in 

a  little  warm  water 
1  tablespoon  each  of  cinnamon 
and  nutmeg 
Bake  in  4  large  layers. 


\  cup  sour  milk 
1  cup  chopped  raisins 
1  tablespoon  molasses 
Yolks  of  3  eggs 
\  tablespoon  cloves 

— Miss  Sauvinet. 


96 


OUR   CHEF'S  BE^T  RECEIPTS. 


Spanish  Buns 

1  pint  brown  sugar  -i  eggs 

1  cup  butter  2  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder 

1  eup  milk  Cinnamon,  cloves  and  nutmeg 

1  pint  flour 

Nice  if  baked  in  sheet.    Frost  with  white  icing. 

—Mrs.  H.  M.  Temple. 

Spice  Layer  Cake 

\  cup  butter  1  cup  raisins,  chopped 

\  cup  sugar  \  teaspoon  cloves 

\  cup  sour  milk  1  teaspoon  soda 

\  cup  molasses  X\  to  2  cups  flour 

3  eggs  A  little  salt 

Dissolve  half  the  soda  in  the  milk  and  half  in  the 
molasses.  Save  out  one  or  two  of  the  whites  for  frosting.  If 
one.  use  the  1-J  cups  of  flour;  if  two.  use  the  %  cups  of  flour. 

— Mrs.  French. 


Sponge  Cake 
5  eggs  1  cup  flour 

1  cup  sugar 

Beat  yolks  and  sugar  together.  Add  beaten  whites,  lastly 
the  flour,  stirred  in  very  lightly.  For  flavoring  add  the 
grated  rind  of  a  lemon  and  1  tablespoonful  of  the  juice. 

—Mrs.  Whitehead. 


Tilden  Cake 

1  cup  butter  \  cup  cornstarch 

%  cups  pulverized  sugar  4  eggs 

1  cup  milk  '2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

3  cups  flour 

Flavor  with  lemon.  — L.  Gr.  K. 


OUR  CHEF'S  BEST  RECEIPTS. 


97 


White  I 

Whites  of  8  eggs 
2  cups  of  sugar 
1  cup  of  cocoanut 

1  lb.  citron  or  candied  pine- 

apple or  apricots 

2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder 


ait  Cake 

1  cup  of  butter 
3  cups  of  flour 
\  tumbler  of  wine 
\  lb.     chopped  almonds, 
blanched 

— Mrs.  Gibson. 


CAKE  FILLING 
Almond  Filling 

1  cup  of  milk  3  teaspoonfuls  cornstarch 

1  egg  \  cup  sugar 

\  cup  almonds,  blanched  and    1  teaspoonful  vanilla 
chopped 

Heat  milk  to  boiling,  thicken  with  the  cornstarch,  pour 
upon  the  whipped  yolk  of  egg  and  sugar,  and  cook  all  together 
for  ten  minutes.  When  cool  add  flavoring  and  almonds. 
Spread  thickly  between  the  layers  of  cake  and  frost  top  with 
plain  icing,  made  from  the  remaining  whites. 

Chocolate  Cream  for  Filling 

5  tablespoons  grated  chocolate    1  cup  sugar 
Enough  milk  to  wet  it  1  egg 

1  teaspoon  vanilla 

Stir  the  ingredients  over  a  fire  until  it  thickens,  having 
beaten  the  egg  before  adding. 

Chocolate  Filling 

2  cups  granulated  sugar  1  cup  milk 

Boil  until  it  ropes.  Beat  hard  and  add  \  cake  of  choco- 
late, melted,  1  teaspoon  vanilla.  — Mrs.  Gifford. 

Fig  Filling 
1  lb.  figs,  chopped  1  teacup  water 

\  cup  sugar 

Cook  until  a  smooth  paste. 


98 


OTTR  CHEF'S  BEST  RECEIPTS. 


Fig  Filling 

3  figs  1%  dozen  seeded  raisins 

4  slices  lemon 

Chop  this  all  very  fine  and  mix  with  the  white  of  one  egg 
beaten  stiff  with  sugar.  — Mrs.  Scholey. 

Fig"  Paste  or  Filling 

8  figs  \  cnP  granulated  sugar 

\  cup  of  water  A  little  brandy 

Let  boil  till  the  right  consistency.  — Mrs.  French. 

Marslimallow  Filling 

\  box  of  gelatine,  dissolved  in    1  lb.  confectioner's  sugar 
1  cup  warm  water 
Beat  20  minutes,  flavor  with  vanilla,  spread  on  the  cake 
before  it  gets- cold,  thick  as  the  cake.         — Mrs.  Scholey. 

Orange  Cake  Filling 
Peel  2  large  oranges  and  chop  fine.    Add  \  a  peeled  lemon, 
1  cup  sugar,  well  beaten  white  of  an  egg. 


COOKIES 

Aunt  Emily's  Cookies 

2  cups  brown  sugar  1  cup  sour  milk 

1  cup  butter  1  teaspoon  of  cinnamon 

1  teaspoon  of  saleratus 

Mix  them  very  soft  with  flour,  like  a  thick  batter.  Put 
plenty  of  flour  on  the  bread-board,  and  roll  thick. 


1  cup  sugar,  white 

2  eggs 

\  teaspoon  soda,  scant 
Flour  enough  to  roll 


Cookies 

\  cap  butter 
2  tablespoons  sweet  milk 
1  teaspoon  cieam  of  tartar 
—Mrs.  S.  P.  Crosby. 


OUR  CHEF'S  BEST  RECEIPTS. 


90 


Cookies 

1  heaping  teacup  sugar  f  cup  butter 

\  cup  sweet  milk  1  teaspoon  soda,  dissolved  in 

2  scant  teaspoons  cream  tartar"  hot  water 

2  eggs 

Flour  to  roll  out,  sprinkle  with  sugar.  Bake  in  a  quick 
oven.  — Mrs.  Scholey. 

Cookies 

1  cup  butter  4  eggs 

1^  cups  sugar  4  cups  flour 

1  teaspoon  soda 

Flavor  with  lemon.  Rub  flour,  butter  and  soda  together. 
Beat  eggs  separately,  cream  yolks  of  eggs  and  sugar,  add 
whites,  and  put  all  together.  — Mrs.  Newcomb. 

Crullers 

6  tablespoons  of  melted  butter    6  tablespoons  of  sugar 
6  eggs  Flour  enough  to  roll 

Fry  in  hot  lard  and  sprinkle  with  sugar. 

— Aunt  Sophia. 

Crullers 

3  eggs  3  tablespoons  melted  lard  or 
3  tablespoons  sugar  butter 

Mix  very  hard  with  flour.  Roll  thin  like  pie  crust.  Cut 
in  squares  3  inches  long  and  2  inches  wide.  Cut  several  slits 
lengthwise  to  within  \  inch  of  end.    Fry  in  hot  lard. 

Drop  Cookies 

1  egg  1  cup  raisins,  chopped 

1  cup  butter  Flavor 

2  cups  sugar  Flour  enough  to  drop  from 
1  cup  sour  milk  spoon 

1  teaspoon  soda  — Mrs.  French. 


100 


OUR  CHEF'S  BEST  RECEIPTS. 


Doughnuts 

2  eggs,  beaten  separately  1  cup  of  sugar 

1  cup  buttermilk  or  sour  milk    1  teaspoonful  soda 
A  little  salt 

Season  with  nutmeg.    Add  flour  enough  to  roll  very  soft. 

Elizabeth  Election  Cookies 

1  scant  cup  of  butter  2  cups  of  sugar 

^  cup  of  molasses  3  eggs 

3  tablespoons  sour   milk  or    1  teaspoon  each  of  cinnamon, 

buttermilk  cloves  and  allspice 

1  cup  of  raisins  1  cup  of  nut  meats 
5  cups  of  flour 

Chop  the  raisins  and  nut  meats  and  flour  them.  Eoll 

sugar  on  lop.  — Mrs.  Scholey. 

Fruit  Cookies 

1|-  cups  sugar  1  cup  butter 

3  eggs  \  cup  molasses 

1  teaspoon  soda  1  cup  chopped  raisins 

1  cup  currants  1  teaspoon  all  kinds  spices 

Flour  to  roll  — Mrs.  A.  E.  Greaza. 

Ginger  Balls 

3  tablespoons  of  butter  1  cup  sugar 

f  cup  molasses  1  egg 

J  cup  milk  \  teaspoon  soda 

Salt  and  ginger  to  taste 

Mix  stiff  with  flour  and  roll  into  balls  size  of  a  marble. 
Roll  in  sugar  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

— Mrs.  Lams  on. 

Ginger  Snaps 

1  cup  sugar  1  cup  molasses 

1  cup  butter  and  lard  mixed     1  heaping  teaspoon  cinnamon 
1  heaping  teaspoon  ginger         1  teaspoon  soda  in  \  cup  boil- 
Flour  to  roll  ing  water. 
Cook   sugar,    molasses  and 

shortening.  — Mrs.  Stella  Conrad,  Stillwater. 


OUR  CHEF'S  BEST  RECEIPTS. 


101 


Hermit  Cookies 


3  eggs 

1  cup  cooking  syrup 
1  cup  of  raisins 
Small  piece  of  citron 
3  tablespoons  sour  milk 
Enough  flour  to  roll  rather  thin 


1-^  cups  brown  sugar 

1  cup  of  butter 

1  cup  of  hickory  nuts 

1  teaspoon  each  of  cinnamon, 

cloves  and  soda 
— M.  L.  Perkins,  Polo,  111. 


Mother's  Jumbles 

2  eggs  1  cup  sugar 

\  cup  butter  \  cup  sour  milk 

\  teaspoon  soda  1  teaspoon  baking  powder 

Season  and  put  in  enough  flour  to  roll  very  soft. 

—Mrs.  D.  B.  H". 

Mrs.  Williams'  Doughnuts 

1  cup  milk 


3  eggs  beaten  separately 
flour  to  roll  very  soft,  and  a 


1  cup  sugar 

3  tablespoons  melted  lard 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder 

Flavor  to  taste.  Enough 
pinch  of  salt. 

Oatmeal  Cookies 

2  cups  flour  \  cup  sour  milk 

2  cups  oatmeal  1  teaspoonful  soda 

f-  cup  sugar  \  cup  butter  or  lard 

Pinch  of  salt  — Mrs.  A.  E.  Greaza. 


\\  cups  sugar 
2  caps  raisins,  chopped 
2  lbs.  of   English  walnuts, 

chopped 
1  teaspoon  cinnamon 


Rock  Cakes 

1  cup  butter 

3  eggs,  beaten  separately 
1  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  1 
cup  sour  milk 


2f  cups  of  flour 


Drop  from  teaspoon  on  buttered  tins.  Bake  in  a  moderate 
oven.  — Mrs.  Calwell,  Cambridge,  Mass. 


102 


OUR  CHEF'S  BEST  RECEIPTS. 


Rock  Cakes 

3  cups  of  sugar  2  cups  butter 

2  cups  chopped  raisins  2  cups  walnuts 

6  eggs  2  teaspoons  of  cinnamon 

2  small  teaspoons  soda,  dis-    6  cups  flour,  or  7  if  the  eggs 

solved  in  hot  water  are  large 

A  pinch  of  salt 

Drop  from  teaspoon  on  a  buttered  paper  in  a  pan. 

— Mrs.  McLaughlin. 

Trifles 

1  egg  and  1  tablespoon  of  sugar,  with  enough  flour  to  roll^N 
Roll  out  thin,  cut  in  rounds  or  squares.    Fry  in  hot  lard  and 
dust  with  powdered  sugar 


OUR  CHEF'S  BEST  RECEIPTS. 


103 


PICKLES 

CHAPTEE  XII 

"Thou  shalt  be    *   *   *   stewed  in  brine,  smarting  in  lingering 
pickle. ' '  — Cleopatra. 

Bon  Ton  Pickles 
100  cucumbers,  4  or  5  inches    2  small  onions 

long,-  but  slender  \  lb.  yellow  mustard 

4  tablespoons  olive  oil  \  lb.  black  mustard 

2  ounces  celery  seed  Vinegar 
1  cup  salt 

Slice  cucumbers  and  onions  in  a  colander  with  the  salt. 
Let  stand  24  hours.  Mix  oil  with  the  seed,  scatter  between 
cucumbers,  and  cover  with  cold  vinegar. 

— Mrs.  Newcomb. 
Brown  Chile  Sauce— Fine 
7  dozen  large  ripe  tomatoes         1  dozen  large  onions 

1  dozen  green  peppers  12  teacups  cider  vinegar 

6  tablespoons  salt  12  tablespoons  brown  sugar 

6  teaspoons  ginger  6  teaspoons  cinnamon 

Chop  fine  the  onions  and  peppers,  mix,  and  boil  3  hours. 

—Mrs.  0.  L.  Winsor. 
Chopped  Pickle  * 
\  peck  green  tomatoes  1  dozen  large  green  cucumbers 

2  heads  cabbage  2  large  onions 

10  cents'  worth  white  mustard    2  ounces  celery  seed 

seed  ^  pint  salt 

10  cents'  worth  black  mustard    1  coffee   cup    grated  horse- 
seed  radish 
Mix  tomatoes,  cabbage  and  salt.    Let  stand  4  hours,  drain 
in  colander.    Let  1-^-  gallons  vinegar  and  2  pounds  sugar  rise 
to  boil,  and  pour  over  all. 

—Mrs.  J.  W.  Jones,  Sioux  Falls,  S.  D. 

10 


104 


OUR  CHEF'S  BEST  RECEIPTS. 


Chow-ChoAv 

1  quart  of  tiny  encumbers         1  quart  green  tomatoes 
1  quart  large  cucumbers  1  cauliflower 

1  quart  of  button  onions  4  green  peppers 

Cut  large  cucumbers  in   small  cubes,  slice  tomatoes. 
Separate  cauliflower,  cut  coarse  peppers.    Put  in  brine  for  24 
hours  (cupful  salt  to  gallon  water),  scald  in  the  same,  and 
drain.  paste 
6  tablespoons  ground  mustard    1  tablespoon  tumeric 

1  cup  flour  1  cup  sugar 

2  quarts  vinegar 

Mix  and  scald.  Stir  until  smooth,  and  pour  over  pickles 
Excellent.  —J.  B.  D. 

Cold  Tomato  Catsup— Good 

2  red  peppers  2  small  onions 

y  cup  salt  1  cup  sugar 

f  cup  white  mustard  seed         1  cup  grated  horseradish 

2  tablespoons  pepper  1  quart  cider  vinegar 

Enough  ripe  tomatoes  to  make  4  quarts  after  they  are 
sliced  and  the  green  ends  off,  but  not  peeled.  Put  into  a 
colander  and  drain  all  night.  Chop  onions,  peppers  and 
tomatoes  very  fine,  and  mix  well.  Put  into  a  stone  jar  and 
stir  once  in  a  while.  — Mrs.  J.  Wortley,  Ypsilanti. 

Cold  Tomato  Sauce 

\  peck  ripe  tomatoes  1  cup  sugar 

1  cup  salt  1  small  cup  mustard  seed 

1  gill  nasturtium  seed  2  stalks  celery 

1  good-sized  horseradish  root     1  teaspoon  allspice 

2  tablespoons  ground  pepper     1  quart  vinegar 

Peel  and  chop  fine  tomatoes,  put  in  colander  to  drain  over 
night.  Add  the  other  ingredients,  first  chopping  celery, 
horseradish  and  nasturtiums.  Cover  with  vinegar,  stir  well 
and  seal  tight.  — Mrs.  T.  E.  Eellows,  White  Bear. 


OUR  CHEF'S  BEST  RECEIPTS. 


105 


Crab-Apple  Pickle 

1  peck  fruit,  selected  7  lbs.  brown  sugar 

2  large  cups  vinegar 

Put  1  clove  into  each  apple  and  stick  cinnamon  into  the 
syrup.  Boil  fruit,  slowly,  one  layer  at  a  time,  until  clear, 
and  leave  in  syrup  to  cool.   *  — Mrs.  C.  L.  Winsor. 

Currant  Catsup 

4  lbs.  ripe  currants  1  tablespoon  cinnamon 

1^  lbs.  sugar  1  tablespoon  salt 

1  pint  of  vinegar  1  teaspoon  of  cloves 

1  teaspoon  of  pepper 

Stew  the  currants  and  sugar  until  quite  thick ;  add  the 
other  ingredients,  and  boil  all  together  a  few  moments. 
Strain  and  bottle.  —Mrs.  M.  E.  Canfield. 

Gooseberry  Jam 

3  quarts  gooseberries  1  quart  currants,  the  juice 

4  cups  sugar  1  cup  vinegar 

1  tablespoon  cinnamon  1  tablespoon  cloves 

A  little  ginger  — Mrs.  C.  L.  Winsor. 

Governor's  Sauce 
1  peck  green  tomatoes  3  large  red  peppers 

1  cupful  brown  sugar  Salt 

Slice  the  tomatoes  into  a  jar,  sprinkle  with  salt  between 
each  layer.  Let  stand  24  hours.  Drain  them  free  from 
their  liquor,  put  them  into  a  kettle,  with  a  teaspoonful  each 
of  ground  ginger,  cloves,  mace,  cinnamon,  scraped  horse- 
radish, the  peppers  chopped  fine,  and  the  sugar,  and  boil 
slowly  for  two  hours.  — Mrs.  W.  L.  Agnew. 

Pickled  Cherries 

Cover  cherries  with  vinegar,  and  let  stand  24  hours.  Pour 
vinegar  off  (which  is  not  used).  Measure  1  pint  of  sugar  for 
each  pint  of  juice  that  drains  from  the  cherries.  Bottle  in 
gem  jars.  — L.  P.  McCloud. 


106 


OUR  CHEF'S  BEST  RECEIPTS. 


Pickles 

Put  the  pickles  in  salt  brine  for  two  days,  then  take  out 
and  put  in  cold  water  containing  a  small  piece  of  alum,  and 
let  them  scald,  not  boil,  or  they  will  get  soft.  Skim  them  out 
and  wipe  dry  and  put  into  jars  or  bottles. 

Prepare  as  much  white  wine  vinegar  as  you  think  you 
will  need  to  cover  them.  Use  ready-mixed  spices;  also  5 
cents'  worth  of  white  mustard  seed  and  a  few  green  peppers. 
To  each  100  pickles  use  2  pounds  granulated  sugar.  Boil  the 
vinegar,  spices  and  sugar  together,  and  pour  over  the  pickles. 
If  you  have  not  boiled  enough  vinegar  to  cover  the  pickles, 
add  a  little  cold  vinegar.  You  may  think  they  are  too  sweet, 
but  it  will  disappear  when  they  have  stood  for  a  month. 

— Mrs.  McLaughlin. 

Small  Cucumber  Pickles 

Put  300  to  500  (according  to  size)  cucumbers  in  strong 
brine  for  24  hour^,  then  remove,  wash  and  wipe  dry.  Place 
in  stone  jar.    Pour  over  them  the  following  mixture: 
1  gallon  cider  vinegar  ^  cup  allspice,  whole 

\  scant  cup  whole  cloves  1  ounce  stick  cinnamon 

1  ounce  whole  mace  2  ounces  celery  seed 

\  cup  whole  black  pepper         \  lb.  white  mustard  seed 

2  cups  brown  sugar  Alum  size  of  hickory  nut 

Steep  this  together  for  1  hour  and  pour  over  cucumbers 
and  six  large  green  peppers  split  in  the  side. 

— Florence  Bodley,  Davenport. 

Tomato  Catsup 

\  bushel  tomatoes  \\  cups  salt 

1  tablespoon  black  pepper         \  cup  mustard 

\  cup  cinnamon  A  little  cloves  and  allspice 

1  pint  vinegar  1  small  cup  sugar 

1  dessertspoon  red  pepper 

Slice  and  boil  the  tomatoes  2  hours.    Put  through  sieve. 

—Mrs.  W.  B.  Taylor. 


OUR  CHEF'S  BEST  RECEIPTS. 


107 


Plum  Catsup 

6  lbs.  plums  £lbs.  sugar 

1  pint  vinegar  1-  tablespoon  cinnamon 

^  tablespoon  cloves  \  tablespoon  pepper 

Pinch  of  salt 

Boil  the  plums  20  minutes  in  not  quite  a  pint  of  water. 

Kub  through  a  sieve.  Put  the  ingredients  together  and  boil 
\  hour.  — S.  S.  Welch. 

Ripe  Tomato  Soy 

1  peck  ripe  tomatoes,  sliced      8  onions,  sliced  thin 
1  cup  salt 

Let  them  stand  24  hours,  then  drain  off  the  water  and  add: 

1  tablespoon  each  of  ground    2  qts.  of  vinegar 

mustard,  ginger,  cloves    \  tablespoon  cayenne  pepper 
and  allspice 

fetew  slowly  2  or  3  hours.  When  done  stir  into  the 
mixture : 

2  lbs.  of  granulated  sugar         \  lb.  mustard  seed 

— Mrs.  Balkam,  Boston. 

Spiced  Plums 

1  peck  of  plums  \  lb.  of  brown  sugar  to  every 

1  pint  of  vinegar  pound  of  fruit 

Spice  to  taste.  Put  all  in  a  kettle,  and  simmer  about  8 
hours.  — Mother.  * 

Spiced  Currants 

5  lbs.  currants  4  lbs.  sugar 

1  pint  vinegar  2  tablespoons  cinnamon 

2  tablespoons  cloves 

Boil  until  quite  thick.  — Mrs.  C.  L.  Winsor. 

Syrup  for  One  Gallon  Sweet  Pickles 

6  cups  sugar  4  cups  vinegar 

Boil.  — Mrs.  Newcomb. 


108 


OUR  CHEF'S  BEST  RECEIPTS. 


CONFECTIONERY 


CHAPTER  XIII 

Alfred  Whitney's  Fudge 

White  Part 
3  cups  of  granulated  sugar        1  cup  of  milk 
Butter  size  of  an  egg 

Flavor  and  fill  with  nuts. 

Dark  Part 

3  cups  granulated  sugar  \  lb.  chocolate 

1  cup  milk  Small  piece  of  butter 

Boil  each  until  it  forms  into  a  soft  ball  when  dropped  in 
ice  water.    Then  beat  until  creamy.    Pour  into  pans  to  cool. 

A  Sweet  Disposition 

3  grains  common  sense  1  large  heart 

1  good  liver  Plenty  of  fresh  air  and  sun- 

1  bushel  of  contentment  light 

1  good  husband 

Do  not  bring  to  a  boil. 

Chocolate  Caramels 

2  pints  brown  sugar  \\  squares  Baker's  chocolate 

1  cup  new  milk  Butter  size  of  an  egg 

Flavor  with  vanilla.  Boil  quickly,  stirring  all  the  time. 
Just  before  taking  from  the  fire,  add  the  vanilla.  When 
brittle  pour  on  buttered  tins  to  cool.  When  nearly  cold  mark 
in  squares. 

Chocolate  Candy 

2  lbs.  soft  brown  sugar  \  cup  milk 

4  squares  of  chocolate  1  tablespoon  of  butter 

Boil  until  it  hardens  in  water.  Pour  quickly  into  buttered 
plates.    This  must  be  done  very  quickly,  or  it  will  harden. 

—Mrs.  Gr.  F. 


OUR  CHEF'S  BEST  RECEIPTS. 


109 


Fig  Candy 

Boil  1  cupful  of  sugar  and  ^  cupful  of  water  until  it  is 
slightly  colored.  Do  not  stir  while  boiling.  Just  before  tak- 
ing from  the  stove  add  1  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar.  Dip 
the  figs  in  this  syrup,  and  lay  on  buttered  plates  to  dry. 

Fondant,  the  Foundation  for  French  Candies 

Boil  1  pound  of  sugar  and  1  cup  of  water  until  it  hairs 
from  a  fork.  Do  not  stir  while  it  is  boiling.  When  just 
cool  enough  to  dip  in  your  finger,  commence  to  beat.  When 
you  can  beat  no  longer,  work  with  the  hands  like  dough. 
When  perfectly  smooth  lay  away  until  ready  for  use.  When 
ready  to  make  your  candy,  melt  some  in  a  teacup,  set  in 
boiling  water,  stir  constantly  until  like  cream,  remove  from 
water,  and  dip  in  it  nuts  or  fruit  and  lay  on  waxed  paper 
until  perfectly  dry. 

Lemon  Drops 

Pour  enough  lemon  juice  over  2  cups  of  powdered  sugar  to 
dissolve  it,  put  it  in  a  pan  and  boil  to  a  thick  syrup.  When 
it  is  brittle  drop  in  drops  on  buttered  plates. 

Molasses  Taffy 

2  cups  brown  sugar  1  tablespoonful  vinegar 

1  cup  molasses  \  cup  water 

Flavor  to  taste.  Boil  until  it  makes  a  crisp  ball  in  cold 
water.  Stir  in  \  teaspoonful  soda.  Pour  on  buttered  plates 
to  cool,  then  pull. 

Peanut  Brittle 

Melt  1  pound  of  sugar  in  an  iron  kettle  until  slightly 
brown.  Add  enough  finely -chopped  peanuts  to  make  a  stiff 
mass.    Roll  thin  on  a  marble  slab. 

—Edith  Fox,  Detroit. 


110 


OUR  CHEF'S  BEST  RECEIPTS. 


Panochi 

4  cups  light  brown  sugar  1  cup  cream 

1  lb.  English  walnuts,  broken    1  teaspoon  vanilla 

up 

Boil  sugar,  cream  and  butter  20  minutes,  until,  when  it  is 
dropped  in  cold  water,  it  will  roll  into  a  soft  ball.  Then 
remove  it  and  put  the  kettle  of  candy  into  a  pan  of  cold 
water  and  stir  until  it  begins  to  grain.  Stir  in  the  nuts  and 
pour  quickly  into  buttered  pans.  Out  into  squares  when 
cold.    Do  not  stir  the  candy  at  first. 

— Mrs.  Wm,  Sargent. 

Pralanns 

2  cups  brown  sugar  ^  cup  cream 

Boil  until  it  strings,  add  1  small  tablespoon  of  vinegar  or 
lemon  juice.    Add  nuts  if  desired,  and  stir  well,  like  fudge. 

— Miss  Collins. 

Pulled  Sugar  Candy 

4  cups  sugar  \  cup  water 

\  cup  vinegar  3  tablespoonf  tils  cream 

Boil  without  stirring  over  a  quick  fire.  When  it  begins 
to  rope  from  the  spoon  drop  a  little  into  cold  water.  If  it 
hardens  pour  upon  buttered  plates.  Flavor  with  vanilla.  As 
soon  as  it  can  be  handled  begin  to  pull. 

Roley  Poley  Candy 

Four  cupfuls  of  coffee  sugar  with  just  enough  vinegar  to 
moisten  it,  and  butter  the  si2e  of  a  walnut.  Boil  until  it 
hardens,  but  not  brittle.  Eemove  from  the  fire,  and  beat 
with  a  spoon  8  or  10  times.  Then  stir  in  1  cup  chopped 
citron,  1  cup  stoned  raisins,  1  cup  blanched  almonds,  1  cup 
chopped  figs,  1  cup  hulled  peanuts. 

Pour  into  a  wet  cloth  and  roll  it  up  like  jelly  cake. 
Twist  the  ends  of  cloth  well,  so  it  will  form  a  mould.  When 
ready  for  use  and  cold,  slice  it  up  as  wanted. 


OUR  CHEF'S  BEST  RECEIPTS. 


Ill 


Stuffed  Dates 

White  of  1  egg,  the  same  quantity  of  water,  flavor  with 
vanilla,  and  add  enough  confectioner's  sugar  until  thick 
enough  to  knead.  Knead  until  smooth.  Remove  stones 
from  dates,  fill  with  the  cream  candy,  and  roll  in  sugar. 

Sugared  Walnuts 

Boil  a  syrup  till  it  begins  to  hair,  then  put  in  the  walnuts, 
boil  a  little  bit,  then  dip  out  on  paper  covered  with  powdered 
sugar.    When  covered  with  the  sugar  dry  in  the  sun. 

— Mrs.  Moses  Folsom. 

To  Prevent  Candy  from  Burning- 
Put  a  few  white  stone  marbles  in  the  kettle.    Their  roll- 
ing will  prevent  burning,  and  does  away  with  so  much 
stirring. 

p 

To  Prevent  Candy  from  Running  Over 

Rub  some  butter  inside  the  kettle,  about  2  inches  from  the 
top. 

Turkish  Delight 

\  box  of  gelatine  dissolved  in    Juice  of  1  lemon 

\  cup  cold  water  Juice  and  grated  rind  of  1 

1  lb.  of  confectionery  sugar  orange 

Boil  j  hour.  Wet  a  pan  and  pour  the  mixture  in,  and  as 
it  cools  cut  in  squares  and  roll  in  pulverized  sugar. 

White  Sugar  Candy 

2  cups  granulated  sugar  ^  cup  of  water 
^  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar 

Boil  sugar  and  water  until  it  hairs.  Add  the  cream  of 
tartar  and  flavor.  Do  not  stir  while  boiling.  Pull  and  let 
stand  24  hours  to  cream.  — Alfred  Whitney. 


112 


OVB  CHEF  S  BEST  BECEIPTS. 


MISCELLANEOUS 


'The  amassed  thought  and  experience  of  innumerable  minds. * 

— Emerson. 

Cheese  Fondu 

(Good.) 

1  teacupful  of  bread  crnnibs      1  teacupful  of  grated  cheese 

Add  a  bit  of  onion,  chopped  fine,  pour  over  this  1  pint  of 
boiling  milk;  add  1  egg,  2  tablespoons  melted  butter,  a 
little  pepper  and  salt.  Mix  well  and  bake  for  half  an  hour. 
Serve  immediately. 

— Mrs.  T.  J.  Campbell,  Memam  Park. 

Cleaning  for  Wall  Paper 

1  lb.  wheat  flour  f  lb.  of  pumice  stone 

1  lb.  of  rye  flour 

Mix  all  together  with  a  little  water,  stiff  as  you  can  niase, 
and  knead  thoroughly,  as  you  would  bread.  Use  little  pieces 
of  it,  and  rub  the  dirt  from  the  paper.    This  is  excellent. 

—Mrs.  F.  I.  W. 

Hints  for  Housekeepers 

Common  cooking  molasses  will  remove  grass  stain  from 
garments. 

A  little  butter  rubbed  on  the  tip  edge  of  cream  pitchers 
prevents  the  cream  dropping. 

To  Use  up  Stale  Clieese 

Cut  cheese  into  small  pieces,  put  into  a  flat  tin  with 
butter  size  of  walnut,  cut  into  pieces,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste. 
Cover  with  milk,  cook  in  hot  oven  10  minutes.  Serve  at 
once  on  hot  buttered  toast.  — Mrs.  H.  Twyford. 


OUR  CHEF'S  BEST  RECEIPTS. 


113 


To  Wash  Point  Lace 

Mix  1  teaspoonful  of  powdered  borax  in  a  basin  of  strong 
white  castile  soap-suds .  Baste  the  lace  to  be  washed  carefully 
with  fine  white  thread  upon  two  thicknesses  of  mnslin  or  cheese 
cloth.  Soak  the  lace  so  arranged  in  the  soap-suds  mixture  for 
24  hours,  or  longer  if  very  much  soiled,  changing  the  suds 
two  or  three  times,  then  put  it  in  clean  water  for  two  or 
three  hours  to  rinse.  Squeeze  out  gently,  but  do  not  wring ; 
and  when  partially  dry  place  the  muslin  with  the  lace  down- 
ward on  two  thicknesses  of  flannel,  laid  on  a  table,  and  smooth 
with  an  iron,  not  too  hot. 

During  the  whole  process  the  lace  must  remain  basted  on 
the  muslin,  and  when  it  is  pressed  must  lie  sandwiched 
between  a  dry  and  a  wet  flannel,  and  pressed  upon  the  latter. 
Do  not  remove  the  lace  from  muslin  till  perfectly  dry. 

—Mrs.  F.  I.  Whitney. 


BREAKFAST,  LUNCHEON  AND  TEAS 

Cheese  Crackers 

1  tablespoon  of  cheese  1  tablespoon  of  butter 

A  very  little  cayenne 

Beat  to  a  cream  and  spread  on  crackers.  Put  in  the  oven 
until  they  are  a  light  brown.  — Mrs.  Peek,  Detroit. 

Eggs  with  Cheese 

Cover  the  bottom  of  pie  plate  with  thin  slices  of  cream 
cheese,  break  over  it  the  number  of  eggs  desired.  Season 
with  pepper  and  salt  and  small  pieces  of  butter.  Pour  over 
each  egg  a  tablespoon  of  cream  and  a  little  grated  cheese. 
Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  eggs  set.    Serve  very  hot. 

— M.  Van ders lues. 

li 


114 


OUU  CHEF'S  BEST  RECEIPTS. 


Macaroni 

Break  the  macaroni  into  2 -inch  pieces.  Throw  into  boil- 
ing water  and  cook  20  minutes,  drain,  and  cover  with  cold 
water  15  minutes.  Put  a  layer  in  baking  dish,  then  a  layer 
of  grated  cheese,  until  dish  is  full.  Mix  1  tablespoonful  of 
butter  and  1  of  flour  in  a  saucepan,  add  1  cup  of  milk,  let 
come  to  a  boil,  and  pour  over  the  macaroni  and  cheese. 
Cover  with  bread  crumbs  and  bake  20  minutes. 

— Mrs.  Forster. 

Marguerites 

3  tablespoons  sugar  f  cup  chopped  walnuts 

1  unbeaten  egg  ^  teaspoon  lemon  juice 

Use  ^  granulated  and  ^  confectionery  sugar.  Mix  well 
and  spread  1  dozen  Long  Branch  crackers,  and  bake  10  min- 
utes or  till  brown.  — Mrs.  James  M.  Sawyer. 


Orange  Marmalade 

9  oranges  6  lemons 

8  lbs.  sugar  16  cups  water 

Slice  the  fruit  very  thin,  cover  with  the  water,  and  let 
stand  over  night.  Boil  slowly  for  2  hours,  then  add  sugar 
and  boil  1  hour  longer.  When  slightly  cool  pour  in  jelly 
glasses  or  jars,  and  let  stand  a  few  days  before  usiDg.  A 
delicious  sweetmeat  for  breakfast.      — Mrs.  W.  L.  Agnew. 


Orange  Marmalade 

6  oranges  1  large  grape  fruit,  or  2  lemons 

Quarter  and  slice  very  thin.  Weigh,  and  to  every  pound 
of  fruit  add  3  pints  of  water.  Let  stand  over  night.  In 
morning  cook  until  tender,  and  let  stand  over  night  again. 
Add  sugar  pound  for  pound,  and  cook  slowly  several  hours. 
Put  in  jelly  glasses.  — Mrs.  Keysor,  Omaha. 


OUR  CHEF'S  BEST  RECEIPTS. 


115 


Onion  Souffle 

1  cup  white  sauce  \  cup  bread  crumbs 

1  cup  finely   chopped    cold    §  cup  milk 

cooked  onions  \  teaspoon  pepper 

\  teaspoon  salt  3  eggs 

Soak  crumbs  in  the  milk,  add  the  white  sauce,  onions, 
pepper  and  salt,  yolks  of  the  eggs  well  beaten.  Add  whites  of 
eggs  last.  Turn  into  buttered  pudding  dish,  and  bake  slowly 
45  minutes. 

— Mrs.  Forster. 

Stuffed  Peppers 

/  \  dozen  green  peppers  1  cup  chopped  tomatoes 

2  tablespoons  butter  1  teaspoon  salt 
1  cup  of  bread  crumbs 

Cut  off  the  tops  and  take  out  the  seeds  of  \  dozen  green 
peppers.  Chop  1  pepper  with  the  seeds,  mix  with  1  small 
onion.  Mix  all  together.  Stuff  the  peppers,  replace  the 
tops,  and  bake  \  hour. 

If  the  peppers  are  rather  hot,  don't  use  the  seeds. 

Tomatoes  are  stuffed  in  the  same  way. 

—Mrs.  M.  E.  Canfield. 


Table  Mustard 

1  lb.  ground  mustard  1  quart  vinegar 

2  tablespoons  sugar  1  teaspoon  salt 
1  teaspoon  cinnamon               \  teaspoon  cloves 

Mix  and  boil  5  or  10  minutes.  If  too  thick  add  more 
vinegar.    It  is  better  after  standing  a  week. 

—Mrs.  G.  W.  F. 


116 


OUR  CHEF'S  BEST  RECEIPTS. 


Poached  Eggs  with  Sauce. 

For  poached  eggs  with  sauce,  use  a  deep  frying-pan  three-  - 
fourths  full  of  boiling  water,  to  which  has  been  added  a 
tablespoonful  of  vinegar  and  one-half  teaspoonful  of  salt  to 
each  quart.  Let  the  eggs  simmer  for  three  minutes,  and 
drop  each  one  on  to  a  slice  of  freshly-made  and  buttered  , 
toast.  For  the  sauce,  melt  a  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  flour 
till  well  blended ;  pour  on  half  a  pint  of  hot  milk,  a  little  at 
a  time,  stirring  constantly.  Add  a  spoonful  of  finely-chopped 
parsley  (dried  will  answer),  a  little  salt,  and  a  dash  of  celery 
salt.  Boil  up  once  and  pour  over  the  toast,  which  has  been 
laid  on  a  dish.  Garnish  the  edge  with  parsley  leaves.  Try 
this ;  you  will  be  sure  to  like  it.  — N.  N. 

Bread-crumh  Omelet. 

For  bread-crumb  omelet,  one  pint  of  fine  bread  crumbs,  a 
large  spoonful  of  dried  parsley  or  celery,  one  small  onion 
chopped  fine.  The  last  may  be  omitted,  if  desired.  Beat 
two  eggs  light  and  mix  with  a  half -pint  of  milk,  a  grate  of 
nutmeg,  pepper  and  salt,  and  a  large  spoonful  of  melted 
butter.  Pour  into  a  buttered  pie  dish ;  bake  to  a  light  brown 
and  serve  at  once.    Very  nice  as  an  entree. 


ITsTDEX. 


CHAPTER  I. 


SOUPS. 

PAGE 


Amber  Soup   6 

Bean  Soup   ,  7 

Bouillon    5 

Bouillon,  fine   6 

Celery  Soup   7 

Corn  Soup   7 

Cream  of  Spinach   8 

Cream  of  Tomato  Soup   10 


Mock  Chicken  Soup   9 

Mock  Turtle  Soup   8 

Onion  Soup   9 

Soup   10 

Tomato  Soup   9 

Tomato  Soup   9 

Tomato  Soup   10 


CHAPTER  II. 


Baked  Whitefish  

Codfish  Balls  No.  1  

Codfish  Balls  No.  2  

Creamed  Oysters  for  chafing 

dish  

Escalloped  Oysters  

Escalloped  Salmon  

Finnan  Haddie  

Fish  Turbot  

Fried  Oysters  

Fried  Oysters  


FISH. 

11     Lobster  Newburg   14 

11  Mackerel  Balls   15 

12  Oyster  Croquettes   20 

Oysters  Fried  in  Batter   20 

18     Oyster  Loaf   19 

18  Oyster  Salad   20 

12  Salmon  Loaf  No.  1   15 

13  Salmon  Loaf  No.  2   16 

13     Shrimp  Croquettes   17 

19  Walled  Salmon   16 

19 


CHAPTER  III. 


Baked  Pork  Tenderloin  

Beef  Croquettes  

Beef  Loaf  

Beefsteak  Pudding  

Boiled  Chicken  and  Macaroni 

Boiled  Turkey  

Breaded  Chicken.  

Chicken  Balls  

Chicken  Croquettes  

Chicken  Loaf  

Frizzled  Dried  Beef  


MEATS. 

21  Leg  of  Lamb   23 

21  Meat  Jelly   24 

21  Pork  Tenderloin  with  Sweet 

21  Potatoes   24 

22  Stewed  Beef's  Heart    24 

22  Sweetbreads   25 

22  Sweetbreads  and  Bacon    25 

22  Veal  Collops   26 

22  Veal  Croquettes   25 

23  Wine  Sauce   26 

23  Yorkshire  Pudding   26 

(117) 


118 


INDEX. 


CHAPTER  IV. 

SALADS  AND  SALAD  DRESSING. 

PAGE  PAGE 


Cold  Slaw   27 

Cream  Dressing  for  Cold  Slaw  27 

Egg  Salad   27 

Fruit  Salad  Dressing   28 

Macedoine  Salad   28 

Mrs.  Clarkson's  Salad  Dressing  28 

Nut  Salad   28 

Nut  Salad   29 

Pea  Salad   29 

Potato  Salad   29 

Salad  Dressing  No.  1   30 


A  Bishop's  Corn  Bread. 
Baking  Powder  Biscuit 
Blueberry  Tea  Biscuits 

Brown  Bread  

Brown  Bread  

Corn  Bread  

Cream  Waffles  

English  Buns  

Fritters  No.  1  

Fritters  No.  2  

Graham  Gems  

Mina's  Waffles  

Mother's  Sally  Lunn  


Anchovy  Sandwiches   43 

Baked  Bean  Sandwiches   43 

Cheese  Sandwiches   43 

Chicken  and  Nut  Sandwiches  43 

Cottage  Cheese  Sandwiches...  44 

Cream  Celery  Sandwiches   44 


Salad  Dressing  No.  2   30 

Salad  Dressing  No.  3   30 

Salad  Dressing  No.  4   30 

Salmon  Salad   31 

Sidney  Smith's  Salad   33 

Sour  Cream  Dressing   32 

Sweetbread  Salad   32 

Tomato  Salad   32 

Veal  Salad  and  Nuts   33 

Waldorf  Salad   33 


40 
40 
40 
40 
40 
41 
41 
41 
41 
42 
42 
42 


Egg  Sandwiches   45 

Oyster  Sandwiches   45 

Peanut  Sandwiches   45 

Roast  Beef  Sandwiches   45 

Salmon  Sandwiches   45 

Sardine  Sandwiches   45 


CHAPTER  V. 

BREAD,  ROEL.S,  ETC. 


34     Muffins  No.  1  

36     Muffins  No.  2  

36  Muffins  No.  3.... 

36     Pocket  Books  

36  Pop  Overs  

37  Puffet  

37  Rice  Waffles  

38  Rolls,  good.  ..... 

37  Royal  Crumpets. 

38  Scotch  Scones  

38  Steamed  Bread... 

38     Two  Waffles  


39 


CHAPTER  VI. 

SANDWICHES. 


INDEX.  119 


CHAPTER  VII. 

BREAKFAST,  LUNCHEON,  AND  TEAS. 

PAGE  PAGE 


Baked  Beans  ".   46 

Baked  Hash   46 

Bean  Croquettes   46 

Breaded  Veal   47 

Calves'  Brains   47 

Candied  Sweet  Potatoes   48 

Cecils   47 

Corn  Oysters   47 

Creamed  Eggs   48 

Egg  Cutlets   49 

Egg  Drops   49 


Eggs  a  la  Caractis   48 

Escalloped  Potatoes   50 

Esoalloped  Sweet  Potatoes   48 

Meat  Balls   50 

Mock  Terrapin   51 

Potato  Puff   51 

Something  Good   51 

Sweet  Potatoes   51 

To  Use  the  Yolks  of  Eggs   49 

Vermicelli  Eggs   50 


CHAPTER  VIII. 


Aunt  Maria's  Apple  Pie   52 

Banbury  Tarts   52 

Butter  Pie   52 

Cheese  Straws   53 

Cream  Pie   53 

Cream  Pie   54 

Cream  Puffs   53 

Cream  Twists   53 

Egg  Tarts   54 

Filling   54 

Japan  Lemon  Pie   54 

Lemon  Cheese   54 

Lemon  Cream,  for  Pie   55 

Lemon  Pie   55 

Lemon  Pie   55 


Marlborough  Pie   55 

Mince  Meat   56 

Mince  Meat   56 

Mock  Cherry  Pie   56 

Mock  Mince  Pie   55 

Orange  Pie   57 

Pineapple  Pie  No.  1   57 

Pineapple  Pie  No.  2   57 

Potato  Pie   57 

Prepared  Lemon  for  Tarts   58 

Pumpkin  Pie   56 

Raisin  Pie   58 

Rhubarb  Pie   58 

Squash  Pie  No.  1   58 

Squash  Pie  No.  2   59 


CHAPTER  IX. 

DESSERT. 


Almond  Wafers    74 

Annie's  Snowballs   60 

Apple  Scallop   60 

Apple  Snow   60 

Baked  Indian  Pudding   61 

Baked  Plum  Pudding   61 

Baked  Apples   63 

Banana  Cream   60 

Batter  Pudding,  with  Apples..  61 
Batter  Pudding,  with  Straw- 
berry Sauce   62 


Bread  and  Butter  Pudding   62 

Black  Raspberry  Pudding   62 

Boiled  Indian  Pudding   74 

Bread  Pudding   62 

Caramel  Custard   75 

Chocolate  Bread  Pudding   63 

Chocolate  Custard  (to  use  up 

the  yolks  of  eggs)   63 

Chocolate  Pudding   63 

Christmas  Plum  Pudding   64 

Christmas  Pudding   64 


120 


INDEX. 


DESSERT- 
page 

Clara's  Graham  Pudding   63 

Cranberry  Cream     65 

Cream  Batter  Pudding   65 

Creamy  Sauce   74 

Danish  Pudding   66 

Delicious  Dessert   73 

Diplonot  Pudding   65 

English  Plum  Pudding   66 

Estelle  Pudding   66 

Foam  Sauce   75 

Ginger  Cream..   67 

Half-hour  Pudding   66 

Hard  Sauce   75 

Heavenly  Hash   75 

Ice  Cream  Sauce    76 

Jersey  Lilies   76 

John's  Delight   67 

Lemon  Jelly   76 

Lemon  Sauce   76 

Maids  of  Honor    67 

Maine  Pudding  Sauce   77 

Manchester  Pudding..   68 

Orange  Cream   68 


Concluded. 

PAGE 

Orange  Omelet   77 

Orange  Pudding    69 

Orange  Puffs   68 

Pineapple  Cream   69 

Pineapple  Sponge   69 

Plum  Pudding   69 

Plum  Pudding   70 

Prune  Whip   68 

Pudding  Sauce   77 

Raisin  Puffs   70 

Ruby  Cream   71 

Sponge  Cake  Pudding   71 

Sponge  Pudding   70 

Sponge  Whip   71 

Steamed  Chocolate  Pudding...  72 

Steam  Graham  Pudding   72 

Steam  Pudding,  with  Goose- 
berries   72 

Strawberry  Shortcake   77 

Tutti  Frutti   73 

Washington  Pie   78 

Whortleberry  Pudding   73 

Wine  Jelly   78 


CHAPTER  X. 

FROZEN  DAINTIES. 


Cafe  Mousse   79 

Cafe  Parfait   79 

Caramel  Ice  Cream   79 

Chocolate  Ice  Cream   80 

Claret  Ice   80 

Coffee  Ice  Cream   80 

Cranberry  Sherbet   80 

Frozen  Pudding   81 

Frozen  Rum  Punch    81 

Fruit  Punch   79 

Ginger  Sherbet   80 

Ice  Cream   81 


Ice  Cream   81 

Kinsley's    New    York  Ice 

Cream   ..  82 

Lemon  Ice   82 

Lemon  Ice   82 

Orange  Ice    82 

Orange  Sherbet   82 

Punch   83 

Roman  Punch   83 

Sauce  for  Frozen  Pudding   83 

Three-of-a-Kind  Ice   83 


CHAPTER  XI. 

CAKES,  CAKE  FILLINGS,  AND  COOKIES. 


Almond  Filling   97 

Angel  Food   84 

Aunt  Emily's  Cookies   98 

Aunt  Sophia's  Crullers   99 

Birkley  Sponge  Cake   84 


Birthday  Cake   85 

Blueberry  Cake   84 

Bread  Cake   85 

Chocolate  Cake   86 

Chocolate  Cream  Filling   97 


INDEX. 


121 


CAKES,  CAKE  FILLINGS, 

PAGE 

Chocolate  Filling   97 

Chocolate  Marble  Cake   85 

Christmas  Cake   86 

Clove  Cake                        ....  86 

Cookies   98 

Cookies   99 

Cookies   99 

Crullers   99 

Date  Cake   86 

Delicate  Cake  No.  1   86 

Delicate  Cake  No.  2   87 

Devil's  Cake   87 

Doughnuts   100 

Drop  Cookies   99 

Elizabeth  Election  Cookies   100 

Fig  Filling   97 

Fig  Filling   98 

Fig  Paste  or  Filling   98 

Filbert  Cake   87 

Four-Egg  White  Cake   87 

Fried  Cakes   88 

Frosted  Ginger  Bread   89 

Fruit  Cake  No.  1   88 

Fruit  Cake  No.  2   88 

Fruit  Cookies   100 

Fruit  Salad  for  Cake  Filling...  88 

Ginger  Balls   100 

Ginger  Bread  No.  1   89 

Ginger  Bread  No.  2   90 

Ginger  Cake     90 

Ginger  Cake   90 

Ginger  Snaps   100 


AND  COOKIES-Concluded. 

PAGE 

Hermit  Cookies   101 

Huldah's  White  Cake   90 

Lemon  Loaf  Cake   90 

Marshm allow  Cake  No.  1   91 

Marshmallow  Cake  No.  2   91 

Marshmallow  Cake  No.  3   91 

Marshmallow  Paste  for  Cake..  91 

Marshmallow  Filling   98 

Maude  S.  Cake   92 

Mother's  Jumbles   101 

Mrs.  Miller's  Chocolate  Cake...  93 

Mrs.  Perkins'  Ginger  Cake   93 

Mrs.   Van  Dusen's  Sunshine 

Cake   93 

Mrs.  Williams'  Doughnuts   101 

Mrs.  W.'s  Wedding  Cake   93 

Neapolitan  Cake   94 

Nougat  Cake   94 

Nut  and  Almond  Cake   95 

Oatmeal  Cookies   101 

Orange  Cake  Filling   98 

Pork  Cake   95 

Pound  Cake   93 

Prince  of  Wales'  Cake   95 

Rock  Cakes  No.  1   101 

Rock  Cakes  No.  2   102 

Spanish  Buns..   96 

Spice  Layer  Cake   96 

Sponge  Cake   96 

Tilden  Cake   96 

Trifles   102 

White  Fruit  Cake   97 


PIC 


Bon-Ton  Pickles   103 

Brown  Chile  Sauce   103 

Chopped  Pickles   103 

Chow-Chow   104 

Cold  Tomato  Catsup   104 

Cold  Tomato  Sauce   104 

Crab-apple  Pickles   105 

Currant  Catsup     105 

Gooseberry  Jam   105 

Governor's  Sauce   105 


CR  XII. 

LES. 


Pickled  Cherries   105 

Pickles   106 

Plum  Catsup   107 

Ripe  Tomato  Soy   107 

Small  Cucumber  Pickles   106 

Spiced  Currants   107 

Spiced  Plums   107 

Syrup  for  One  Gallon  Sweet 

Pickles   107 

Tomato  Catsup   106- 


122 


INDEX. 


CHAPTER  XIII. 


CONFECTIONERY. 


Alfred  Whitney's  Fudge   108 

A  Sweet  Disposition   108 

Chocolate  Candy   108 

Chocolate  Caramels   108 

Fig  Candy   109 

Fondant   109 

Lemon  Drops   109 

Molasses  Taffy   109 

Panochi    110 

Peanut  Brittle   109 

Pralanns   110 


Pulled  Sugar  Candy   110 

Roley  Poley  Candy   110 

Stuffed  Dates   Ill 

Sugared  Walnuts   Ill 

To  Prevent  Candy  from  Boil 

ing  Over   Ill 

To  Prevent  Candy  from  Burn- 
ing  Ill 

Turkish  Delight   Ill 

White  Sugar  Candy   Ill 


MISCELLANEOUS. 


Bread-crumb  Omelet   116 

Cheese  Crackers   113 

Cheese  Fondu   112 

Cleaning  for  Wall  Paper   112 

Eggs  with  Cheese   113 

Hints  for  Housekeepers   112 

Macaroni   114 

Marguerites   114 


Onion  Souffle   115 

Orange  Marmalade..    114 

Orange  Marmalade   114 

Poached  Eggs  with  Sauce   116 

Stuffed  Peppers   115 

Table  Mustard   115 

To  Use  Up  Stale  Cheese   112 

To  Wash  Point  Lace   113 


r 

X 

v  ■( 

T 

r 

I 

-X 

I 

Do  not  H 

Metal  Frame 

Office,  N.  W.  Manufacf 

FACTORY: 

26  &  28  E.  CHIC  AC 

ST.  RAUL,  MINI\ 


.  ...Telephone  1228 


A  GOOD  HOUSE  DESERVES  A 
OF  SCREENS 


*  4 


Compliments  of 

NORTHERN 
STEAMSHIP 
COMPANY 


JON  881899 


©  FLIES  -  -  - 

!N  A  HOUSE  WITH  OUR 

jyjETAL  .. 

FRAME  SCREENS 

Do  not  Warp,  Swell,  or  get  out  of  Shape  as  do  wooden  ones. 

Metal  Frame  Window  Screen  Co. 

Office,  N.  W.  Manufacturers'  Association  Market  House. 
factory:  a — f^~^^T 
26  &  28  E.  CHICAGO  AVE.    )  Jtk2^S£ 

ST.  PAUL,  MINN. 


....Telephone  1223.... 


A  GOOD  HOUSE  DESERVES  A  GOOD  SET 
OF  SCREENS. 


Piano. 


DEALERS  IN 


Musical  Instruments 

....AND.... 

Sheet  Music 

WEST  SUPERIOR  STREET, 

.  DULUTH,  MINNESOTA. 


ONE  OF  THE  MOST  SUCCESSFUL  REMEDIES 


OF  THE  AGE 


Phipps  Catarrhal  Cream 


This  Remedy  is  Sure 
and  Gives 
Relief  Instantly 

It  is  applied  into  the  nostrils 
with  the  little  finger  or  the  tube  ! 
accompanying  each  50  cent  tube,    j  \ 

IT  IS  NOT  LIKE 
ANY  OTHER 

It  reaches  the  sore  spot. 

It  purifies  the  breath. 

It  cleanses  and  heals  the  ulcer. 

It  cures  HAY  FEVER 

relief  in  a  few  moments 
so  you  can  breathe  easily. 

Send  for  a  Tube  or  get  from 
your  druggist. 

Price  60  Cents 

PRUSSIAN  REMEDY  CO., 

St.  Paul,  Minn. 


YOU'LL  l-KI  THE  PEOPLE  YOU-  ^ 


LIBRARY  OF  CONGRESS 


0  014  488  782  7  • 

-    Big  »  HS-O  MIBI- 


Fopalaritjris  always  a  test  of  excellence,, 
'  i    .   These  are  very  good  reasons  why  the  most 
-.  powii'ar  train  in  the  Northwest  is  the 


Speed,  Luxury,  Safety,  .. 

Close  i"<inccdonsv 

High-class  .Travel, 

TRY  fT  AND^BE^CONVINCED. 

EVERY  MORNING  from  ST.  FAUL,- MINNEAPOLIS/  DULUTH, 
WEST  "  SUPERIOR,  to  air  .Northwestern  arid  Pacific 
'   ;  •  Coast" points.    Direct  route  to  Republic  Camp  - 
and  the  KLootenai.  Country . 


Illustrated  isforifeatios  from  all  Great  Northern  ticket  agents  or  by  writing. 


'@@m?at.  Passenger  Agent.  Great  Northern  Railway*  ,^ 
•  ;  \         .  <3 I".  PAUL,*  Mmffl*  }  |j£ 


'*THE  ROAD  THAT  si*0£  Tr-£  ^aRT:^¥EIT  M*?0Ul/r" 


