LIBRARY  OF  CONGRESS. 


Shelf 


UNITED  STATES  OF  AMERICA. 


li 


^  ^^m 


w 


iji\i 


^M 


OUK  DAILY  BREAD. 


HOW  TO  PREPARE  IT. 


A  COMMON  SENSE 

_5)    (5 


Price,  Twenty-Five  Cents, 


» 


m)M 


'^m!r^t^'''^f^^'^'\     Wm.  A.  Scripps,  Printer,  46  Larned  St.  West,  Detroi 


^i^^ 


OUR 


BREAD, 


AS    PREPARED    FOR    US    AT 


DR.  FAIRCHILD'S 


HYGIENE  HOME, 


QUINCY,  ILLINOIS. 


cohvc^'IIjEid  ^i<rjD  j!L.:R:Rj^i<rGr:E:jD  B-y 


J.    ANNIE    SCRIPPS. 


jWoJASLOJC,, 

\Cy^         1880.  :-^     ''.^ 


1879. 

WM.  A.  SCRIPPS,  PRINTER,  DETROIT,  MICH. 


^i 


Entered  according  to  Act  of  Congress,  in  the  year  1879,  by 

J.  ANNIE  SCRIPPS, 
In  the  Office  of  the  Librarian  of  Congress,  at  Wasbinglon. 


PREFACE, 


We  may  live  without  poetry,  music  and  art; 
We  may  live  without  conscience,  and  live  without  heart; 
We  may  live  without  friends,  we  may  live  without  books  ; 
But  civilized  man  cannot  live  without  cooks." 

People  who  know  nothing  of  our  ways  say  we  starve.  We  say,  know- 
ingly, that  we  are  the  only  people  who  do  not  starve.  Because  we  use 
such  food  as  can  be  appropriated  by  the  vital  system,  and  hence  the  body 
is  nourished  and  strengthened,  for  vital  force  is  expended  in  tising^  not  in 
resisting  or  expelling  food  material. 

The  true  office  of  cooking  is  to  render  food  better,  not  worse.  Keep- 
ing this  in  mind,  we  readily  decide  what  good  cooking  really  means.  It 
is  combining  articles  of  food  in  such  a  way  and  subjecting  them  to  such 
processes  as  will  not  detract  from,  but  will  rather  add  to  their  health  and 
life  sustaining  qualities. 

There  is  in  hygienic  cooking  a  call  for  more  skill,  more  nicety  in 
adaptation  of  means,  more  thoughtful  painstaking,  than  in  the  ordinary 
methods  of  preparing  food,  because,  using  little  or  nothing  in  the  way  of 
condiments,  the  flavor  of  food  is  dependent  on  the  material  itself,  and  the 
natural  sweetness  and  flavor  must  be  developed  by  proper  cooking,  not 
made  by  the  additions  of  foreign  ingredients. 

Hygienic  food  must  not  deprive  us  of  esthetic  any  more  than  gusta- 
tory pleasure,  in  fact  those  delights  can  be,  and  are,  not  only  secured  but 
enhanced  by  rendering  fo^d  simple  and  wholesome. 

But  I  have  seen  this  mistake  made  by  good  honest,  earnest,  self  sacri- 
ficing people,  who  were  laboring  most  ineffectually  to  induce  in  others  a 
liking  for  great,  coarse,  ugly  looking,  insipid  food.  Bread  made  in  huge 
gem  pans,  or  cut  in  crooked  thick  slices  from  the  loaf,  or  shaped  in  clumsy 


OUR    DAILY    BREAD. 


biscuits  or  thick  door  mats  of  pancakes — vegetables  cooked  too  much  or  too 
little  and  served  floating  in  their  "  watery  grave," — fruits  only  half  cooked, 
pies  with  thick,  tough,  unshapely  looking  crusts — puddings  badly  com- 
bined and  worse  served, — all  very  good  material  in  the  first  place,  but 
because  of  omitting  to  observe  some  simple  common  sense  measures,  all  is 
spoiled  and  hygienic  cooking  is  not  acceptable,  and  no  wonder. 

Bread,  of  whatever  kind,  to  be  good,  must  be  well  baked.  Pancakes 
should  be  thin,  small  and  light.  Gems  baked  in  small  moulds — they  are 
thus  crisp  and  delicate.  The  biscuit  cutter  should  be  not  over  an  inch  and 
a  half  or  two  inches  in  diameter.  Pies  must  be  made  with  thin  crust  neatly 
trimmed  and  delicate  at  the  edges.  Puddings  should  be  served  in  small 
dishes  ;  mushes,  also,  etc-,,  etc.,  etc. 

Our  daily  bread  is  not  so  radical  as  we  would  have  it,  perhaps, 
but  the  dietetic  world  must  be  won  rather  than  forced  to  natural  states. 

Science  and  reason  are  consulted,  it  seems,  not  until  grim  dyspepsia 
takes  hold  and  will  not  let  go  his  clutch. 

And  so,  I  believe  this  an  opportune  moment  for  hygienic  cook  books, 
and  hygienic  ways  generally.  For  all  sorts  of  chronic  diseases  prevail  and 
persistently  refuse  to  depart  at  the  command  of  oi-dinary  eating  and  drug 
taking,  and  at  last  we  may  hope  that  people  will  listen  to  "  common 
sense,"  and  be  guided  out  of  this  quagmire  of  disease  and  death. 


INDEX. 


Soups — p  9. 

Page. 

Asparagus  Soup 9 

Bean  Soup 9 

Corn  Soup 9 

Pea  Soup 10 

Potato  Soup 10 

Turnip  Soup  (Lottie  Dubach's)..  lo 

Chicken  or  Beef  Soup 10 

Vegetable  Soup 10 

Green  Corn  Soup ii 

Rack-a-bone  Soup ii 

Tomato  Soup Ii 

Pea  Soup  (Lottie  Dubach's Ii 

Fish — p.  12. 

Baked  Fish 12 

Boiled  Fish 12 

Escalloped  Fish 13 

Fried  Fish 13 

Stewed  Codfish, 13 

Codfish  and  Potato.... 13 

Codfish  Balls 14 

Fish  Chowder 14 

Meats — p.  15. 

Buying  and   Cooking 15 

Broiled  Beef  Steak .-...  15 

Fried  Beef  Steak 15 

Baked  Beef  Steak 15 


Page. 

Stewed  Beef  Steak 16 

Pot  Roast 16 

Meat  Pie 16 

Meat  Stew..., 16 

Lamb  and  Pea  Stew 17 

Mutton  Chops 17 

Irish  Stew 17 

Baked   Meat 17 

Meat  and  Potato  Pie 17 

Baked  Mutton  Chops 18 

Friccaseed  Chicken 18 

Pressed  Chicken 18 

Pressed  Beef 18 

Baked  Turkey 19 

Escalloped  Turkey 19 

Old  Fashion  Chicken  Pot  Pie 20 

Fried  Chicken 20 

Vegetables — p.  21. 

Asparagus 21 

Another  Way 21 

Beets 21 

Young  Beets 21 

Stewed  Beets 22 

Baked  Beets 22 

Green  Lima  Beans 22 

Dry  Lima  Beans 22 

String  Beans 22 


OUR   DAILY   BREAD. 


Page. 

Boiled  White  Beans 22 

Baked  Beans,  No.  i 23 

Baked  Beans,  No.  2 23 

Boiled  Cabbage 23 

Cauliflower 23 

Green  Corn 23 

Stewed  Corn 24 

Baked  Corn 24 

Green  Corn  Omelet 24 

Corn  Oysters 24 

Corn  and  Tomatoes 24 

Succotaah 25 

Greens 25 

Boiled  Onions 25 

Onion  Tbast 25 

Stewed  Onions 26 

Parsnips , 26 

Green  Peas 26 

Dry  Peas 26 

New  Potatoes 26 

Potato  Stew 27 

Baked  Tomatoes 27 

Fried  Tomatoes 27 

Escalloped  Tomatoes 27 

Stewed  Tomatoes 27 

Turnips 28 

Vegetable  Oysters 28 

Carrots 28 

Potatoes 28 

Mashed  Potatoes 29 

Forked  Potatoes 29 

Baked  Sweet  Potatoes 29 

Another  Way 29 

Bread — p.  30. 

Hot  Water  Bread 30 

Beet  Biscuit 30 

Graham  Gems 30 


Page. 

Dr.  Fairchild's  Light  Bread 30 

Salt  Rising  Bread 31 

Graham  Soda  Biscuit 31 

Rye  Biscuit 31 

Rye  Light  Bread 31 

Soda  Gems 32 

Corn  and  Giaham  Gems 32 

Corn  Meal  Gems 32 

Batter  Bread 32 

Corn  Light  Bread 32 

Corn  and  Graham  Biscuit t^t^ 

Hominy  Mufifins 33 

Kentucky  Corn  Bread 33 

Squash     or     Pumpkin     Johnny 

Cake 2>Z 

Snow  Bread 34 

Potato  Biscuit... 34 

White  Gems 34 

Half  and-half  Gems 34 

Bread  Omelet 34 

Jug  Yeast 35 

Dry  Yeast 35 

Light  Bread 35 

Puddings— p.  36. 

Apple  Custard 36 

Apple  Dumplings 36 

Apple  Charlotte 36 

Boiled  Fruit  Pudding 36 

Bread  Pudding 37 

Bread  and  Apple  Pudding 37 

Cottage  Pudding 37 

Corn  Meal  Pudding 37 

Baked  Indian  Pudding 37 

Graham  Pudding 38 

Baked  Apple  Pudding 2i^ 

Hominy  Pudding 38 

Oat  Meal  Pudding 38 


HOW   TO    PREPARE   IT. 


Page. 
Toast  Pudding 38 

Tapioca  and  Fruit  Pudding 39 

To  Boil  Rice  Savannah  Fashion.  39 

Baked  Rice  Pudding 39 

Rice  and  Strawberry  Pudding...  39 

Blanc  Mange.. 40 

FruitBlanc  Mange 40 

Oat  Meal  Blanc  Mange 40 

Flummery 40 

The  Most  Delicate  Blanc  Mange  41 

Cold  Lemon  Sauce 41 

Plain  Cake  and  Fruit  Dessert...  41 

Rhubarb  Blanc  Mange 41 

Ice  Cream 4» 

Lemon  Ice 42 

Lemon  Tapioca 42 

Been  Jelly 42 

Giraffe  Strawberry  Dessert 42 

Strawberry  Short  Cake 43 

Baked  Custard 44 

Apple  Pudding 44 

Floating  Island 44 

Sauces  for  Puddings — p.  45. 

Lemon  Sauce 45 

Orange  Sauce 45 

Fruit  Sauce 45 

Patent  Cream 46 

Jelly  Sauce 46 

Milk  Gravy 46 

Pudding  Sauce 46 

Pies — p.  46. 

Prepared  Suet 47 

Pie  Crust 47 

Another  Way 47 

Still  Another  47 

Custard  Pies 48 


Page. 
Fruit  Cobbler 48 

Another  Cobbler 48 

Squash  Pie 49 

Tar^s 49 

Rice  Pie 49 

Apple  Pie 49 

Cream  Pie 49 

Lemon  Pie 50 

Cake— p.  50. 

Hygienic  Cake 50 

Ginger  Bread 50 

Graham  Cookies 51 

Graham  Cookies,  No.  2 51 

Yeast  Cake 51 

Soft  Ginger  Bread 51 

Fruit  Cake 51 

Sponge  Cake 51 

Plain  Cake 52 

White  Cake 52 

Delfcate  Cake 52 

Lemon  Jelly  for  Layer  Cake 52 

Cream  Filling  for  Cake 52 

Fruits— How  to  Cook — p.  53. 

Baked  Apple  Sauce 53 

Pie  Plant 53 

Gooseberries 54 

Cherries,  Currants,  Berries,  etc..  54 

Dried  Fruits 54 

Cranberries 55 

Canned  Fruit 55 

Orange  and  Lemon  Extracts 55 

Toast— p.  55. 

Milk  Toast 55 

Codfish  Toast 56 

Egg  Toast 56 

Minced  Meat  Toast .., 56 


OUR    DAILY    BREAD. 


Page. 

Corn  Bread  Toast 56 

Tomato  Toast 56 

Cream  Toast 56 

Mushes— p.  57. 

Corn  Meal  Mush 57 

Graham  Mush 57 

Oat  Meal  Porridge 57 

Oat  Meal  Mush 58 

Cracked  Wheat 58 

Hominy 58 

Fried  Corn  Meal  Mush 58 

To  warm  over  Hominy 59 

Griddle  Cakes — p.  59. 

Bread  Griddle  Cakes 59 

Bran  Griddle  Cakes 59 

Hominy  Griddle  Cakes 59 

Earl's  Pannie  Cakes 59 


Page. 
Yeast  Griddle  Cakes 60 

Corn  Mush  Patties 60 

Corn  Meal  Griddle  Cakes 60 

Waffles 60 

Gruel  — p.  60. 

Corn  Meal  Gruel 61 

Rice  Gruel 61 

Miscellaneous — p.  61. 

Ponhaus,  or    Winter    Mush    for 

Frying 61 

Cottage  Cheese 62 

Cream  Curd 62 

Butter  Milk  Cheese 62 

Baking  Powder 63 

Jellies —  63 

Lemonade 63 


SOUPS. 

Soup  can  be  made  in  such  variety  that  but  few  general 
directions  need  be  here  given.  We  sometimes  use  "  stock  " 
made  from  boiling  good  fresh  beef  or  mutton  several  hours, 
allowing  the  liquor  to  cool  and  skimming  the  fat  from  it.  Again, 
vegetable  soup  may  be  very  nice  made  without  meat.  Other 
soups  also. 

ASPARAGUS   SOUP. 

1.  Boil  fifteen  or  twenty  stalks  of  asparagus  in  a  little  more 
than  enough  water  to  cover  it;  when  done,  take  up  with  a  skim- 
mer, and  serve  on  toast,  or  cut  up  in  small  pieces  and  leave  in 
the  soup,  to  which  add  half  a  cup  of  sweet  milk  and  thicken 
with  flour  or  corn  starch  to  the  consistency  of  cream.  Add  salt 
to  taste. 

BEAN  SOUP. 

2.  Soak  the  beans  over  night,  boil  them  till  soft,  then  run 
them  through  a  colander.  Put  the  liquor  back  in  the  pot  and 
add  half  a  pint  of  milk  in  which  have  been  stirred  two  or  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  white  flour ;  add  salt  to  taste.  Have  ready  in 
your  soup  tureen  two  or  three  slices  of  toast  cut  into  small 
squares ;  pour  the  soup  over  these  and  send  to  the  table  hot. 

CORN  SOUP. 

3.  Take  of  corn,  cut  from  the  cob,  one  quart ;  boil  in  one 
quart  of  water  for  fifteen  minutes,  then  add  a  pint  of  milk  ;  salt 
to  taste.  Thicken  with  flour  or  corn  starch  to  the  desired  con- 
sistency. 


lO  OUR    DAILY    BREAD. 


PEA  SOUP. 

4.  Pea  soup  may  be  made  in  the  same  way  as  asparagus 
soup. 

POTATO    SOUP. 

5.  Peel  and  cut  into  slices  one  quart  of  potatoes ;  boil  in 
two  quarts  of  water  ;  when  done  mash  fine  ;  add  salt  and  two 
table  spoonfuls  of  white  flour,  stirred  in  half  a  pint  of  rich  milk. 
Pour  over  toast ;  serve  hot. 

MISS  LOTTIE  DUBACH'S  TURNIP  SOUP. 

6.  Take  three  medium  sized  turnips,  slice  into  small  narrow 
strips,  put  on  in  a  pot  of  two  quarts  of  cold  water,  boil  till  ten- 
der ;  then  stir  in  a  desert  spoonful  of  flour  with  a  little  milk,  and 
butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  add  one  pint  of  milk  and  salt  to  suit 
the  taste;  let  it  come  to  a  boil,  put  in  a  cup  full  of  crushed 
crackers  just  as  you  take  it  off,  and  you  have  a  good  mock  oys- 
ter soup. 

Adding  half  a  teacupful  of  picked  up  codfish  to  the  above 
soup  decides  the  flavor  as  oyster. 

CHICKEN  OR  BEEF   SOUP. 

7.  Take  the  broth  in  which  you  have  boiled  a  chicken  or  a 
piece  of  fresh  beef,  add  salt  to  taste,  and  half  a  teacupful  of 
rice,  or  noodles.  These  are  made  by  beating  an  egg,  then 
working  in  flour  till  you  have  a  very  stiff  dough;  roll  very 
thin,  flour  well,  roll  up  and  cut  off  in  as  narrow  strips  as  you 
can,  throwing  the  strips  into  flour  to  dry;  let  them  boil  in  the 
soup  for  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes. 

VEGETABLE  SOUP. 

8.  One  parsnip,  one  carrot,  one  turnip,  one-eighth  of  a 
head  of  cabbage ;  chop  fine,  put  into  three  quarts  of  water,  sim- 
mer for  an  hour  and  a    half;  then    add  three  potatoes  chopped 


HOW    TO    PREPARE    IT. 


fine,  one  pint  of  tomatoes,  two  large  onions  which  must  be  first 
chopped  fine  and  fried  in  a  little  butter  for  five  or  ten  minutes. 
Frying  the  onions  greatly  improves  the  soup.  Let  the  soup  boil 
for  half  an  hour  longer,  and  five  minutes  before  taking  up  add 
salt  and  a  few  sprigs  of  chopped  parsley.  You  can  leave  out 
any  vegetable  you  do  not  like  or  do  not  happen  to  have  at  hand. 

GREEN  CORN  SOUP 

9.  Grate  or  scrape  from  the  cob  a  pint  of  corn,  to  this  add 
one  pint  of  milk  and  one  pint  of  water,  a  little  salt  and  butter, 
boil  gently  for  ten  or  fifteen  minutes.  If  you  like  it  better  add 
one  tablespoonful  of  fine  flour;  it  gives  more  body  to  the  soup. 

RACKABONE  SOUP. 

10.  Put  all  the  bones,  scraps  of  meat,  and  the  dressing  of  a 
cold  roast  turkey  or  chicken  into  a  kettle  with  enough  water  to 
cover  them;  let  them  boil  for  one  or  two  hours,  then  skim  out 
the  bones  and  meat,  chop  the  meat  fine,  return  to  the  soup,  add- 
ing a  little  salt ;  let  it  boil  up  well  together  and  serve.  Or,  if 
you  like,  strain  all  the  meat  and  bones  out,  and  serve  clear,  or 
with  a  little  rice  or  barley  boiled  in  it. 

TOMATO  SOUP. 

11.  To  six  good  sized  tomatoes  add  water  to  cover,  boil 
one  hour,  then  strain  through  a  coarse  sieve.  Put  back  in  the 
kettle  and  bring  to  a  boil ;  stir  in  one  tablespoonful  of  fine  flour 
mixed  to  a  smooth  batter  with  cold  water,  let  it  boil  five  min- 
utes.    Season  to  suit  the  taste. 

MISS  LOTTIE  DUBACH'S  PEA  SOUP. 

12.  Take  about  two  pounds  of  beef,  put  on  a  slow  fire  in 
cold  water  and  skim  before  it  boils  ;  wash  a  pint  of  dried  peas,  put 
on  the  fire  in  cold  water  in  a  separate  vessel.     After  they  boil  a 


OUR    DAILY    BREAD. 


few  minutes  skim  out  and  put  into  the  boiling  soup.  Steep  till 
soft,  one  half  pint  of  barley  in  cold  water  and  pour  into  the  soup; 
add  one  onion  peeled  and  sliced  fine,  also  one  turnip  or  carrot, 
with  salt  to  flavor.  Boil  the  whole  on  a  slow  steady  fire  for 
three  hours  or  more,  being  careful  not  to  let  it  burn. 


FISH. 


We  have  been  taught  that  fish  is  the  lowest  form  of  animal 

food,  but  as  it  is   a    favorite   dish   with  many  we   will  give  the 

simplest  methods  of  preparing  it  for  the  table — methods  that  we 

have  tried  and  proved  to  our  own  satisfaction  as  well  as  that 

^         of  all  who  partook  thereof. 

BAKED   FISH. 

1.  After  scaling,  cleaning  and  washing,  salt  the  fish,  roll  in 
corn  meal,  put  in  a  baking  pan  with  a  little  water  and  bake  half 
or  three  quarters  of  an  hour  in  a  hot  oven,  basting  as  you  would 
a  fowl.  You  will  be  surprised  that  it  can  taste  so  nice  with  so 
simple  cooking.     Good  either  hot  or  cold. 

BOILED   FISH. 

2.  Wrap  your  fish  in  a  cloth,  which  you  may  either  sew  or 
pin  on,  and  put  into  boiling  water,  which  must  be  salted ;  sim- 
mer gently  an  hour,  more  or  less,  according  to  the  size  of  the  fish, 
or  until  the  fish  will  leave  the  bone  easily  ;  have  ready  a  dressing 
made  of  milk,  with' salt  to  taste,  a  little  parsley  chopped  fine, 
and  thickened  with  white  flour  to  the  consistency  of  drawn  but- 
ter sauce.     Take  the  fish  from  the  cloth,  remove  the  skin,  put  it 


HOW    TO    PREPARE    IT. 


whole  on  a  platter  and  pour  the  dressing  over.  Serve  hot.  If 
any  should  be  left  over,  either  of  this  or  baked  fish,  you  will 
find  it  nice  to  use  in  n:iaking  a  dish  which  we  call 

ESCALLOPED    FISH. 

3.  Carefully  remove  all  the  bones  from  the  cold  fish ;  have 
about  the  same  quantity  of  bread  crumbs  as  fish  ;  chop  fine  one 
or  two  onions  and  some  parsley,  mix  these  with  the  bread  crumbs 
with  salt  to  taste ;  then  in  a  pudding  dish  put  a  layer  of  bread 
crumbs,  then  a  layer  of  fish,  until  the  dish  is  full,  letting  a  layer 
of  bread  crumbs  come  last.  Take  butter  the  size  of  a  hickory 
nut,  cut  in  small  pieces  and  put  over  the  top,  pour  over  the 
whole  milk,  or  half  milk  and  half  water,  till  it  rises  to  the  top. 
It  is  better  to  let  it  stand  an  hour  or  two  before  baking.  Bake 
in  a  quick  oven  for  half  an  hour,  or  until  nicely  browned. 

FRIED  FISH. 

4.  Cut  your  fish  into  pieces  the  size  of  your  hand,  salt  each 
piece  and  roll  in  corn  meal,  have  just  enough  grease  on 
the  griddle  to  prevent  stickirrg,  and  when  the  fish  is  brown  on 
one  side  turn  it,  and  keep  turning  till  thoroughly  done.  Serve 
hot. 

STEWED  CODFISH. 

5  Cut  off  a  piece  of  codfish  the  size  you  wish  to  cook, 
soak  over  night ;  in  the  morning  turn  off  the  water,  add  more 
cold  water  and  bring  to  a  boil,  then  turn  off  the  water  again. 
Mash  or  pick  apart  the  fish,  taking  out  the  bones;  add  milk  and 
thicken  with  white  flour.  This  makes  a  nice  breakfast  dish 
with  hot  corn  meal  mush  or  baked  potatoes. 

CODFISH  AND  POTATOES. 

6.  Peel  and  boil  a  .  dozen  good  sized  potatoes ;  soak  in 
warm  water  a  piece  of  codfish  as  large  as  your  two  hands,    for 


OUR    DAILY    BREAD. 


three  or  four  hours,  letting  it  come  to  a  boil  at  the  last;  then  take 
out  of  the  water,  remove  the  bones,  and  chop  up  or  mash  fine. 
When  the  potatoes  are  done  pour  off  the  water,  mash,  add  the 
codfish,  a  small  piece  of  butter  and  half  a  pint  of  sweet  milk  ; 
stir  all  well  together,  put  on  a  plate  or  dish,  make  the  top 
smooth,  put  in  the  oven  and  brown.     Serve  hot. 

CODFISH   BALLS. 

7.  Prepare  the  same  as  for  codfish  and  potatoes  ;  when  cool 
enough  mould  with  the  hand  into  round  cakes  half  an  inch 
thick  ;  fry  a  delicate  brown  on  both  sides  on  slightly  buttered 
griddles. 

FISH  CHOWDER. 

8.  Take  good  fresh  fish,  such  kind  as  has  few  bones ;  cut, 
after  it  is  nicely  cleaned,  into  pieces  an  inch  or  two  square ;  put 
in  the  bottom  of  a  dinner  pot  some  pieces  of  fat  beef;  let  this 
fry  a  few  moments,  when  put  in  a  layer  of  thinly  sliced  potatoes, 
a  layer  of  fish  and  a  layer  of  bread  grumbs  ;  repeat  these  layers 
until  you  have  as  much  chowder  as  you  wish  to  make.  Season 
with  salt  and  sliced  onions.  Pour  over  this  a  pint  or  more  of 
hot  water  and  as  much  rich  milk  as  will  cover  the  whole;  a 
small  piece  of  butter  may  be  added.  We  usually  fry  the  onions 
first  with  the  fat  beef.  Cover  the  pot  tight  and  let  the  chowder 
cook  slow  half  an  hour  or  more,  till  well  done.     Serve  hot. 


HOW   TO    PREPARE    IT.  1 5 


MEAT. 

BUYING  AND  COOKING. 

Beef  and  mutton  are  considered  the  best  animal  food. 
Never  buy  meat  of  any  kind  when  the  fat  looks  yellow.  It  is 
a  sure  sign  of  a  diseased  liver,  hence  is  unwholesome.  The 
lean  part  of  an  ox  beef  is  bright  red ;  cow  beef,  pale  red ;  bull 
beef,  dark  red. 

In  regard  to  the  practice  of  pounding  steak  :  Tender  beef 
steak  will  not  need  pounding  before  broiling  or  frying.  If  it  is 
tough,  stew  it,  for  in  no  other  way  will  it  be  palatable. 

Skinning  mutton  takes  from  it  its  strong  taste. 

BROILED  BEEF  STEAK. 

1.  The  best  way  to  cook  steak  is  to  broil  it.  Wash  and 
dry  on  a  clean  cloth  your  steak,  then,  having  your  broiler  hot, 
put  on  the  steak,  turn  it  two  or  three  times  a  minute  to  keep  the 
juice  from  wasting;  when  done  remove  to  a  platter,  add  a  little 
salt  and  butter.     Serve  immediately. 

FRIED     STEAK. 

2.  Have  your  skillet  hot;  put  your  steak  in  whole,  or  cut 
in  pieces  the  size  of  the  palm  of  your  hand  ;  sprinkle  on  a  little 
salt.  When  done  brown  on  one  side,  turn  and  let  it  brown  on 
the  other  side;  then  take  it  up  on  a  platter,  pour  a  cup  of  boiling 
water  into  the  skillet,  add  a  little  salt  and  butter,  thicken  the 
gravy  and  turn  over  the  meat ;  if  not  ready  to  have  it  served  at 
once,  keep  in  a  warm  place. 

BAKED    STEAK. 

3.  Take  a  round  stea.k ;  make  a  stuffing  of  Graham  bread 
crumbs,  with  an  onion  chopped  fine,  a  little  salt  and  sage ;  wet 


1 6  OUR    DAILY    BREAD. 


up  with  milk,  spread  on  the  steak,  then  roll  up  Hke  a  roll  jelly- 
cake;  skewer  or  sew  it  together,  put  in  a  baking  pan  with  a 
little  water,  sprinkle  the  steak  with  salt,  bake  an  hour,  basting 
as  you  would  a  fowl.     This  is  very  nice  sliced  up  cold. 

STEWED  BEEF  STEAK. 

4.  Cut  in  small  pieces,  put  in  a  stew  pan  with  just  water 
enough  to  cover;  add  salt  to  taste  ;  when  cooked  tender  make 
a  crust  of  biscuit  dough  and  put  over  the  top  of  the  meat;  cover 
tight  and  let  it  cook  for  twenty  minutes  longer,  then  turn  all 
out  on  a  platter.  This  is  an  excellent  way  to  cook  a  tough 
steak. 

POT  ROAST. 

5.  Take  any  nice  roast,  put  it  in  your  pot  with  a  little  boil- 
ing water,  when  nearly  done  add  salt ;  boil  the  water  all  down 
so  that  the  juices  of  the  meat  may  all  be  re-absorbed;  let  it  brown 
a  little  but  not  burn.      Good  either  hot  or  for  cold  sliced  meat. 

MEAT  PIE. 

6.  Take  any  scraps  of  cold  meat  and  boil  till  tender  ;  take 
out  of  the  liquor  and  chop  fine,  then  put  back  again  with  half  a 
dozen  potatoes  and  three  or  four  sliced  onions ;  cook  till  all  are 
done,  having  a  good  deal  of  liquor  ;  salt  to  taste.  Have  ready 
a  deep  dish  lined  on  the  sides  with  a  good  biscuit  dough  crust  • 
pour  into  this  your  mixture,  cover  with  a  top  crust  half  an  inch 
thick,  bake  till  the  crust  is  done.     Easily  made  and  very  nice. 

MEAT  STEW. 

7.  Same  as  the  above,  only  instead  of  putting  it  in  a  pie 
put  dumplings  of  biscuit  dough  in  the  pot  and  boil  till  done, 
turning  all  out  on  a  platter. 


HOW    TO    PREPARE    IT.  1 7 


LAMB  OR  MUTTON  AND  PEASE  STEW. 

8.  Cut  your  meat  in  smair  pieces,  boil  till  almost  done, 
then  add  your  peas  and  boil  half  an  hour  longer ;  add  a  little 
parsley  if  you  like  it,  and  thicken  with  white  flour  stirred  up  in 
a  little  milk.     Salt  to  taste. 

MUTTON  CHOPS. 

9.  Mutton  takes  a  long  time  to  cook,  say  two  or  three  hours. 
Put  your  chops  in  a  skillet  with  water  to  cover  ;  when  the  water 
has  all  evaporated  and  the  chops  are  tender,  let  them  brown  on 
both  sides,  then  turn  on  a  pint  of  boiling  water.  Let  all  boil  up, 
thicken  and  salt  the  gravy,  and  turn  all  together  on  a  plate. 

IRISH  STEW. 

10.  Take  lean  mutton,  potatoes  and  onions;  first  put  in  a 
deep  kettle  a  layer  of  potatoes  cut  in  slices,  then  a  layer  of 
onions,  then  mutton;  then  another  layer  of  potatoes,  onions  and 
mutton,  and  finish  with  a  layer  of  potatoes  on  top.  Between 
each  layer  sprinkle  salt  and  a  little  flour ;  then  put  in  enough 
water  to  prevent  burning  and  cook  slowly  for  four  hours  without 
•stirring.  Cooked  on  the  top  of  the  stove  with  a  hot  fire  it  will 
not  burn. 

BAKED  MEAT. 

11.  In  a  pudding  dish  put  a  thick  layer  of  stale  bread 
crumbs,  on  this  a  layer  of  cold  boiled  beef  chopped  fine  and 
seasoned  with  salt,  a  little  sage  or  parsley  ;  then  another  layer 
of  bread  crumbs  ;  moisten  the  whole  with  beef  broth  or  water, 
and  bake  half  an  hour  in  a  moderate  oven. 

MEAT  AND  POTATO  PIE. 

12.  Line  a  shallow  buttered  pudding  dish  with  finely 
mashed  potato,  seasoned  to  the  taste  ;  fill  to  within  an  inch  of 


l8  *  OUR    DAILY    BREAD. 


the  top  with  finely  chopped  cold  beef,  seasoned  with  salt  and  a 
little  chopped  onion  moistened  with  beef  gravy  ;  cover  with  the 
mashed  potato  and  bake  half  an  hour. 

BAKED  MUTTON  CHOPS. 

13.  Place  your  chops  in  a  baking  pan  and  sprinkle  salt 
over ;  add  a  little  water,  cover  with  another  pan  and  bake 
slowly  for  two  hours,  or  until  done ;  take  up  the  chops,  make  a 
gravy  by  adding  a  litde  water,  and  thicken  with  a  spoonful  of 
flour  mixed  with  milk,  and  pour  over  the  chops. 

FRICASSEED    CHICKEN. 

14.  An  old  hen  will  answer  very  well  for  this.  Cut  up  and 
soak  over  night  in  slightly  salted  water :  in  the  morning  put  on 
cooking  as  early  as  possible  in  cold  water ;  watch  it  and  when  it 
comes  to  a  boil  skim  it  and  let  it  simmer  all  the  morning  ;  you 
can  hardly  cook  it  too  much ;  do  not  salt  till  nearly  done.  When 
done,  take  up  the  chicken  on  a  platter,,  add  a  pint  of  milk  to 
the  broth,  and  thicken  with  white  flour  stirred  up  with  milk  ; 
pour  the  gravy  over  the  chicken  and  garnish  the  dish  with 
parsley. 

PRESSED  CHICKEN. 

15.  Cut  up  a  chicken  and  boil  it  until  the  flesh  leaves  the 
bones ;  remove  all  the  bones,  picking  the  meat  well  apart,  and 
boil  down  the  broth  to  a  consistency  that  will  form  jelly  when 
cold,  or  if  you  like  it  not  so  rich  boil  less  and  use  a  little  corn 
starch  to  thicken.  Then  add  the  meat  and  season  with  salt ; 
boil  up  once,  pour  into  a  mould  and  put  a  weight  on  it.  When 
cold  cut  off  in  slices. 

PRESSED  BEEF. 

16.  Take  a  shank  bone  and  boil  till  you  can  remove  the 
bones ;    chop    the    meat   pretty  fine  and   put  back  in  the  liquor 


HOW    TO    PREPARE    IT.  1 9 


with  salt  and  a  little  sage  ;    boil  till  it  will  become  jellied   when 
cold  and  then  mould.     Cut  in  slices  when  cold. 


BAKED    TURKEY. 

17.  We  will  suppose  you  buy  your  turkey  ready^dressed. 
Examine  it  carefully  to  be  sure  everything  is  removed  that  should 
be ;  wash  well  with  salt  and  water  and  then  prepare  your  dress- 
ing by  taking  one  or  two  quarts  of  brown  bread  crumbs  seasoned 
to  taste  with  salt  and  powdered  sage  and  moisten  with  boiling 
milk  just  enough  to  hold  together  well ;  then  cut  lengthwise  a 
slit  in  the  craw  of  the  turkey,  fill  with  dressing  and  sew  up  with 
long  stitches ;  put  the  rest  of  the  dressing  inside,  no  matter  if  it 
is  not  full,  and  then  sew  up  the  cavity ;  next  cut  the  neck  off 
short  and  draw  the  skin  over  it  and  tie  with  a  cord  ;  tie  the 
wings  and  legs  firmly  in  place,  and  it  is  then  ready  for  the  oven. 
Put  it  in  a  large  dripping  pan,  rub  it  over  with  salt  and  put  a 
cup  of  water  in  the  pan.  Bake  from  two  to  three  hours,  accord- 
ing to  age  or  size,  allowing  lo  or  15  minutes  for  each  pound, 
basting  every  ten  or  fifteen  minutes.  When  done  take  up  on  a 
platter,  cut  off  the  strings  and  pull  out  the  stitches.  For  gravy, 
pour  off  the  grease  from  the  pan  and  add  a  pint  or  more  of  boil- 
ing water,  a  little  butter,  and  thicken  with  white  flour  mixed 
with  cold  water. 

ESCALLOPED  TURKEY. 

18.  Take  all  the  cold  bits  and  dressing  left  from  a  baked  tur- 
key and  chop  fine ;  take  twice  the  quantity  of  bread  crumbs,  add 
to  these  salt  and  chopped  parsley,  and  onions,  if  you  like  them ; 
mix  well ;  then  in  a  baking  dish  put  first  a  layer  of  the  crumbs, 
then  a  layer  of  turkey,  and  so  on  till  your  dish  is  full.  Add  any 
gravy  left  over  and  pour  cold  water  over  the  whole,  and  let  it 
stand  half  an  hour,  then"  bake  till  nicely  browned. 


20  OUR    DAILY    BREAD. 


OLD-FASHIONED  CHICKEN  POT  PIE. 

19.  Make  a  crust  of  light  bread  dough, shortened  with  butter^ 
as  for  raised  biscuits.  A  good  fat  tender  hen  is  the  choice  for 
a  pot  pie.  Cut  it  in  pieces  as  for  fricasseed  chicken  and  stew- 
in  water  enough  to  cover  it  until  nearly  done  ;  a  few  sliced  po- 
tatoes nij^y  be  added.  Then  line  the  sides  of  a  smooth  round- 
bottomed  kettle  with  the  light  crust,  first  buttering  the  sides  of 
the  kettle  ;  just  at  the  bottom  put  no  crust ;  pour  into  this  the 
stewed  chicken,  seasoned  with  salt  and  a  small  piece  of  butter ; 
have  an  abundance  of  gravy  ;  cut  small  inch  square  pieces  of  the 
dough  and  drop  in  the  stew,  then  cover  with  crust  rolled  about 
as  thick  as  for  biscuit ;  cover  tight  and  on  top  of  this  lay  a  dry 
clean  cotton  cloth  several  folds  in  thickness  and  then  put  on 
your  lid.  It  will  take  from  half  to  three  quarters  of  an  hour  for 
this  to  cook  over  a  gentle  fire.  Serve  immediately  after  remov- 
ing the  cover  and  your  pot  pie  will  be  a  success — light  and 
toothsome. 

FRIED  CHICKEN. 

20.  Prepare  tender  young  chickens  as  for  stew  or  fricassee. 
Put  them  in  a  skillet  and  cover  with  water ;  season  with  salt  and 
very  little  butter.  Let  the  skillet  be  covered  tight  and  stand 
on  the  back  of  the  stove,  or  where  the  chicken  will  simmer,  not 
cook  rapidly,  for  an  hour  or  so,  or  until  it  is  tender.  Just  before 
it  is  time  to  remove,  take  off  the  lid,  place  the  skillet  over  the 
fire  and  let  the  water  simmer  down  entirely;  then  sprinkle  from 
the  dredging  box  a  little  flour  over  the  chicken  and  let  it  be 
turned  and  browned  on  both  sides  of  each  piece.  It  is  much 
better  cooked  thus  than  when  fried  in  lard  or  any  consid- 
erable amount  of  grease. 


HOW    TO    PREPARE    IT. 


VEGETABLES. 


A  few  p;eneral  rules  apply  to  the  cooking  of  vegetables. 
Unless  the  water  in  which  they  are  cooked  is  to  be  used  as  part 
of  the  dressing,  it  should  be  wholly  evaporated,  not  allowed  to 
be  poured  off,  thus  losing  to  the  vegetable  a  great  portion  of  its 
sweetness  and  richness.  Thus  cooked,  there  is  no  demand  for 
for  rich  seasoning. 

ASPARAGUS. 

1.  Put  into, boiling  water  and  boil  till  tender  ;  have  ready 
in  a  dish  or  small  platter  some  slices  ot  dry  toast  and  lay  the 
asparagus  on  the  toast ;  add  a  little  butter  to  the  water  in  which 
it  was  boiled  and  then  pour  over  the  toast. 

ANOTHER  WAY. 

2.  Cut  the  asparagus  into  small  pieces  and  boil  till  tender  ; 
then  stir  in  a  batter  made  of  one  tablespoonful  of  flour  and  half 
a  cup  of  milk  ;  pour  over  toast  or  not,  as  you  like. 

BEETS. 

3.  Boil  three  or  four  large  beets  until  tender ;  put  into  cold 
water  that  the  skin  may  be  rubbed  off;  slice  up  in  a  dish,  add  a 
little  salt  and  butter,  and  serve  hot. 

YOUNG  BEETS. 

4.  Young  beets  with  the  tops  cooked  until  tender,  an  hour 
or  more,  make  a  nice  dish  eaten  with  a  little  vinegar  or  lemon 
juice. 


22  OUR    DAILY    BREAD. 


BEET    STEW. 

5.  Cut  in  thick  slices  nice  red  beets  and  boil  till  nearly 
done,  then  add  about  the  same  quantity  of  sliced  potatoes  ; 
when  done  season  with  a  little  salt  and  milk  after  the  water  is 
nearly  or  quite  evaporated.     Serve  hot. 

BAKED  BEETS. 

6.  Place  nicely  washed  beets  in  a  deep  dish  or  porcelain 
pan,  cover  with  water,  and  place  in  the  oven  to  bake  till  tender. 
They  are  unusually  sweet  cooked  in  this  way. 

GREEN  LIMA  BEANS. 

7.  Boil  in  just  enough  water  to  cover  them,  and  a  few  min- 
utes before  taking  up  add  a  little  salt  and  a  tablespoonful  of  flour 
stirred  up  with  milk  enough  to  make  a  thin  batter. 

DRY  LIMA  BEANS. 

8.  These  may  be  prepared  the  same  way,  only  that  it  takes 
them  longer  to  cook. 

STRING  BEANS. 

9.  Break  or  cut  the  pods  in  small  pieces,  first  removing  the 
strings  ;  then  put  in  cold  water  enough  to  more  than  cover  them 
and  boil  three  or  four  hours.  A  little  salt  may  be  added  and  a 
small  piece  of  butter,  or  a  little  cream,  just  before  serving. 

BOILED  WHITE  BEANS. 

10.  Wash  and  rinse  in  two  warm  waters  and  then  cover 
with  cold  water  three  or  four  times  their  quantity,  and  boil 
slowly  till  done.  Do  not  stir  them,  but  be  careful  to  serve  well 
done,  but  unbroken.  If  more  water  is  needed  while  cooking, 
add  it  boiling  hot ;  never  pour  cold  water  on  them  after  they 
begin  to  boil.     Salt  very  lightly. 


HOW    TO    PREPARE    IT.  23 


BAKED  BEANS,  NO.  i. 

11.  To  one  pint  of  beans  prepared  as  above,  add  three 
pints  of  cold  water,  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar  and  half  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  salt.  Bake  in  a  stone  jar  or  very  deep  dish,  in  a  moder- 
ate oven,  all  day,  and  let  them  remain  in  the  oven  until  after 
breakfast  next  morning.  If  while  baking  more  water  is  required, 
add  it  hot. 

BAKED  BEANS,  NO.  2. 

12.  Prepare  the  beans  as  for  boiling  and  cook  until  partly 
done,  then  put  into  an  earthen  or  porcelain  dish,  add  a  little 
salt  and  sugar,  and,  if  you  prefer,  a  piece  of  beefsteak  the  size  of 
your  hand  ,  bake  to  a  nice  brown.  We  prefer  this  dish  without 
the  meat. 

BOILED  CABBAGE 

13.  Cut  a  cabbage  into  quarters  and  put  into  boiling  water 
enough  to  cover  it;  let  it  cook  for  two  or  more  hours,  letting 
the  water  all  evaporate,  so  as  to  retain  the  juices;  add  a  little 
salt  at  table  or  pour  over  it  a  milk  dressing. 

CAULIFLOWER. 

14.  Remove  all  the  green  leaves,  cut  in  half  or  cook  whole 
the  same  as  cabbage,  until  tender,  then  take  up  in  a  dish  and 
pour  over  it  a  dressing  of  milk  thickened  with  flour  and  slightly 
salted. 

GREEN  CORN. 

15.  Have  your  water  boiling  and  drop  your  ears  of  corn  in; 
boil  from  ten  to  fifteen  minutes;  too  much  boiling  injures  it. 
Eat  without  salt  or  butter  if  you  would  simplify  your  taste  and 
get  the  full  delicious  flavor  of  the  corn. 


24  OUR    DAILY    BREAD. 


STEWED     CORN. 

1 6.  In  cutting  corn  from  the  cob,  split  the  kernels  length- 
wise with  a  sharp  knife  and  then  scrape  the  cob  ;  this  is  even 
better  than  grating  the  corn,  as  the  fineness  of  the  inside  kernel 
is  thus  obtained  with  less  of  the  outside  coating.  Or,  with  a 
sharp  knife  cut  the  very  outside  of  the  grains  and  then  scrape. 
Stewed  corn  may  be  cooked  in  just  enough  water  to  cover  it; 
cook  ten  minutes,  add  a  very  little  salt  and  butter  as  seasoning, 
or  a  little  milk  in  which  is  stirred  smoothly  a  spoonful  of  white 
flour  as  thickening. 

BAKED   CORN. 

17.  Put  the  cut  or  scraped  corn  in  a  pudding  dish  and 
cover  it  with  sweet  milk;  salt  to  taste  and  bake  half  an  hour. 

GREEN  CORN  OMELET. 

18.  Grate  or  scrape  the  corn  from  the  cob  and  to  one  quart 
of  corn  add  two  eggs,  a  half  pint  of  sweet  milk,  two  heaping 
tablespoonfuls  of  flour ;  salt  to  taste  and  bake  till  browned  over. 
Some  add  sugar  to  this  and  use  as  a  dessert. 

CORN   OSYTERS. 

19.  Two  cups  of  corn  pulp,  one  egg,  a  little  salt,  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  sweet  milk,  about  one  spoonful  of  white  flour  or 
enough  to  make  a  stiff  batter ;  drop  on  a  hot,  well  greased  grid- 
dle and  fry  a  delicate  brown. 

CORN  AND    TOMATOES. 

20  A  layer  of  sliced  tomatoes,  one  of  green  corn  pulp,  and 
then  a  layer  of  bread  crumbs  ;  pour  over  it  half  a  teacupful  of 
hot  water,  and  a  little  salt ;  have  as  many  layers  as  you  like  ; 
bake  till  well  done. 


HOW    TO    PREPARE    IT.  25 


SUCCOTASH. 

21.  Boil  one  quart  of  lima  beans  till  tender  and  then  add 
one  quart  of  sweet  corn  cut  from  the  cob,  and  boil  ten  or  fifteen 
minutes  longer;  salt  slightly.  Some  like  more  corn,  some  less. 
Proportion  it  to  suit  yourself. 

GREENS. 

22.  Pick  carefully  and  wash  in  three  waters;  use  a  large  pan 
to  wash  them  in ;  shake  well,  a  handful  at  a  time,  in  the  water 
and  place  them  in  another  large  pan  ;  then  pour  a  quantity  of 
fresh  water  over  the  greens  and  shake  and  rinse  as  before,  always 
lifting  them  from  the  water,  as  they  are  left  gritty  by  pouring 
the  water  off.  Have  your  pot  boiling  and  pack  the  greens  in  it, 
(as  they  fill  a  large  space  before  wilted),  and  boil  until  done. 
The  length  of  time  required  depends  on  the  kind  of  greens ; 
some  will  become  tender  in  an  hour,  others  need  two  hours  or 
more  boiling.  When  done,  drain  them  in  a  colander,  pressing 
the  water  well  out.  Put  on  a  large  v/hite  platter,  cut  in  neat 
blocks,  and  dress,  for  esthetic  rather  than  gustatory  effect,  with 
dehcate  slices  of  hard  boiled  eggs — about  two  eggs  to  a  large 
platter  of  greens.  A  little  butter  may  be  spread  over  the  greens 
previous  to  putting  on  the  eggs.  Good  cider  vinegar  or  lemon 
juice  may  also  be  used.     Salt  to  taste. 

BOILED  ONIONS. 

23.  Peel  half  a  dozen  large  onions  and  put  them  in  boiling 
water  with  salt  to  taste ;  boil  till  tender  and  then  simmer  down 
so  as  to  retain  all  the  juices;  they  need  no  other  seasoning, 
but  are  delicious. 

ONION  TOAST. 

24..  Boil  some  small  onions  till  tender  with  a  Httle  salt  in 
the  water.     Have  ready  some  slices  of  toast  in  a  dish  and  when 


26  OUR    DAILY    BREAD. 


the  onions  are  done  take  them  up  with  a  skimmer  and  put  them 
on  the  toast ;  thicken  the  water,  which  should  be  boiled  away 
to  about  a  pint,  with  a  little  corn  starch  or  fine  flour  and  pour 
over  the  onions  and  toast. 

STEWED  ONIONS. 

25.  Cut  half  a  dozen  onions  into  slices  and  cook  in  just 
enough  water  to  cover  them  for  half  or  three  quarters  of  an  hour ; 
when  done  add  a  little  salt  and  two  or  three  spoonfuls  of  sweet 
cream  ;  thicken  a  little  if  you  like. 

PARSNIPS. 

26.  Wash  and  scrape  as  many  parsnips  as  you  wish  to  cook. 
Put  them  in  boiling  water  and  boil  for  two  or  three  hours  or 
until  tender ;  add  a  little  salt  when  they  are  nearly  done,  and 
let  them  boil  down  in  the  water  they  are  cooked  in,  and  brown 
a  little  ;  serve  in  this  way  or  with  a  dressing  of  milk  thickened 
with  flour  poured  over  them. 

GREEN  PEAS. 

27.  Shell  your  peas  just  before  cooking  and  put  into  boiling 
water  just  enough  to  cover  them  ;  add  salt  when  nearly  done  and 
let  the  water  boil  away,  don't  turn  any  off";  cook  from  fifteen 
minutes  to  half  an  hour,  according  to  their  age.  Some  prefer  to 
add  a  little  cream  or  milk  thickening. 

DRY  PEAS. 

28.  Cook  as  you  do  boiled  dry  beans. 

NEW  POTATOES. 

29.  New  potatoes  and  green  peas  boiled  together  make  a 
nice  dish. 


HOW    TO    PREPARE    IT.  27 


POTATO  STEW. 


30.  After  paring  and  slicing  the  potatoes  boil  them  till 
partly  dissolved  in  the  water  ;  have  just  enough  water  to  cover 
them ;  salt  and  add  dumplings,  if  you  like,  made  of  sour  milk 
and  soda,  stirred  quite  stiff  with  Graham  flour. 


BAKED  TOMATOES. 

31.   Slice  up  tomatoes  in  a  pudding  dish  until  the  dish  is  full, 
sprinkling  salt  on  each  layer,  and  bake  an  hour. 

FRIED  TOMATOES 

32.  Cut  off  the  ends  of  the  tomato,  then  cut  each  tomato 
into,  say,  three  slices.  Fry  in  as  little  butter  as  possible,  just 
to  prevent  sticking,  and  turn  like  pancakes  ;  sprinkle  on  a  little 
salt  while  cooking  and  serve  smoking  hot.  If  you  like  it  better 
you  can  pour  over  the  tomatoes,  while  still  on  the  griddle,  milk 
with  a  little  fine  flour  stired  in,  and  let  it  boil  up  ;  this  forms  a 
gravy  which  is  nice  with  corn  mush  or  pancakes. 

ESCALLOPED  TOMATOES. 

33.  Take  one  quart  of  canned  tomatoes,  one  quart  or  a 
little  more  of  Graham  bread  crumbs  ;  chop  fine  two  or  three 
onions  and  mix  with  the  bread  crumbs  ;  then  put  in  a  baking 
dish  a  layer  of  tomatoes  and  a  layer  of  bread  crumbs  alternately, 
sprinkling  a  little  salt  on  each  layer ;  pour  over  the  whole  water 
enough  to  moisten  and  bake  half  an  hour  in  a  quick  oven. 

STEWED    TOMATOES. 

34.  Boil  and  season  your  tomatoes  and  then  add  a  little 
milk  thickened  with  white  flour.  Or,  use  bread  crumbs  instead 
of  the  milk  and  flour ;  or  better  still,  cook  them  for  a  long  time 
and  use  no  thickening  at  all. 


28  OUR    DAILY    BREAD. 


TURNIPS. 

35.  Boil  them  down  in  the  water  in  which  they  are  cooked  ; 
then  mash  fine  and  add  a  little  salt  and  a  spoonful  or  two  of 
sweet  cream. 

VEGETABLE  OYSTERS. 

36.  Pare  and  cut  in  transverse  slices  and  boil  in  a  small 
quantity  of  water.  When  tender,  add  a  little  thickening  made 
of  milk  or  cream  and  flour.  It  may  be  poured  over  toasted 
bread. 

CARROTS. 

37.  Scrape,  slice  and  boil  till  tender,  boiling  them  down 
till  all  the  water  evaporates,  then  add  a  little  butter  and  let  them 
brown  slightly ;  then  pour  over  them  half  a  pint  of  sweet  milk 
with  a  tablespoonful  of  white  flour  stirred  in,  and  let  it  boil  for 
a  minute ;  serve  hot.  Some  like  parsnips  cooked  with  the  car- 
rots in  this  same  style,  only  the  carrots  require  longer  cooking 
than  the  parsnips. 

POTATOES. 

38.  The  very  best  way  to  cook  potatoes  is  this  :  Wash 
them  thoroughly,  having  them  of  even  size  if  possible,  and  drop 
in  boiling  water,  not  allowing  the  pot  to  stop  boiling  fast  till  a 
fork  will  pierce  the  potato  with  but  slight  resistance.  Then 
pour  ofl"  the  water  and  set  the  pot  on  the  fire,  removing  the 
cover,  allowing  the  steam  to  escape.  Send  to  the  table  hot  and 
without  removing  the  skins.  In  boiling  potatoes,  a  wire  basket 
is  an  important  adjunct ;  place  it  and  the  potatoes  right  in  the 
boiling  water,  and  they  can  be  as  quickly  removed  from  the 
kettle  when  done. 

Potatoes  are  liked  simply  pared  and  and  boiled,  and  served 
as  above.     The  parings  should  be  very  thin,  as  the   choice  part 


HOW    TO    PREPARE    IT.  2g 


of  the  tuber  is  that  nearest  the  outer  integument ;  it  is  the  richest 
in  starch  gravies. 

After  placing  the  nicely  boiled  potatoes  in  the  vegetable 
dish,  a  dressing  of  milk  in  which  has  been  stirred  a  thin  batter, 
making  the  whole  of  the  consistency  of  cream,  may  be  poured 
over  them  hot. 

MASHED     POTATOES. 

39.  Boil  as  above,  nicely  pared  potatoes  ;  when  done  pour 
off  what  water  is  left  in  the  pot  (there  should  be  very  lit- 
tle), empty  them  from  the  basket  into  the  pot,  and  place  them 
on  the  fire,  mashing  them  rapidly  laMe  hot\  then  stir  with  an 
iron  spoon,  mash  again,  and  continue  to  do  this  until  the  whole 
mass  is  even  and  creamy.     Add  a  little  salt. 

FORKED     POTATOES. 

40.  Pare  and  boil  mealy  potatoes  in  slightly  salted  water 
and  when  done  turn  off  the  water  and  let  them  dry  out  well ; 
then,  still  keeping  them  in  the  kettle  on  the  stove,  beat  with  a 
fork  as  you  would  eggs,  till  they  are  light  and  foamy.  Serve  at 
once,  and  all  who  partake  will  declare  it  the  best  way  to  serve 
potatoes. 

BAKED   SWEET   POTATOES. 

41.  Select  potatoes  as  near  the  same  size  as  possible;  put  in 
a  baking  pan  and  fill  the  pan  half  full,  or  rather  half  cover  the 
potatoes  with  water,  and  bake  till  done  in  a  hot  oven,  when  the 
water  will  have  cooked  down  to  a  rich  syrup. 

ANOTHER    WAY. 

42.  Boil  till  half  done,  then  take  out,  put  in  a  baking  pan 
dry,  and  finish  cooking  in  the  oven. 

3 


30  OUR    DAILY    BREAD. 


BREAD. 


HOT  WATER    BREAD. 

1.  Pour  boiling  water  over  Graham  flour,  making  a  stiff 
dough  ;  roll  out  rather  thin,  cut  into  small  biscuits  ;  don't  let  them 
touch  each  other  in  the  pan,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  for  twenty 
minutes  or  half  an  hour. 

BEAT    BISCUITS. 

2.  Mix  Graham  flour  with  cold  water  into  a  stiff  dough  and 
then  beat  with  a  hammer,  if  you  can  get  one,  for  fifteen  minutes 
to  half  an  hour ;  cut  into  squares,  prick  on  top,  and  bake  in  a 
hot  oven.     All  unleavened  bread  requires  a  very  hot  oven. 

GRAHAM  GEMS 

3.  First  be  sure  you  have  good  brown  flour,  otherwise  you 
need  not  expect  to  have  good  gems.  Take  one  and  a  half  cups 
of  cold  water,  half  a  cup  of  sweet  milk  and  enough  Graham 
flour  to  make  a  batter  stiff  enough  to  smooth  off  well  when  you 
drop  it  into  your  gem  pans,  which  have  standing  on  the  stove 
hot  and  greased  enough  to  prevent  sticking  ;  beat  your  batter 
well  while  mixing,  and  after  putting  in  the  hot  pans  let  them 
stand  on  the  stove  from  two  to  five  minutes,  and  then  put 
in  a  hot  oven  and  bake  half  an  hour.  The  only  object  in 
using  the  sweet  milk  is  that  it  helps  to  brown  them. 

DR.  FAIRCHILD'S  LIGHT    BREAD. 

4.  Set  your  yeast  over  night.  Take  one  part  brOwn  and 
two  parts  of  white  flour;  in  the  morning  scald  the  brown  flour 
you  are  going  to  use  with  thin  hot  cornmeal  mush  or  hot  water, 


HOW    TO    PREPARE    IT. 


31 


(the  mush  makes  it  moist  and  scalding  the  flour  makes  the 
bread  sweeter)  ;  when  cool  enough  add  the  yeast,  making  a 
rather  soft  dough  ;  let  it  rise  once,  as  rapidly  as  possible,  knead, 
into  pans,  and  when  light,  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

SALT-RISING    BREAD. 

5.  To  one  quart  of  warm  water  add  a  quarter  of  a  teaspoonful 
of  salt ;  thicken  to  a  stiff  batter  with  half  white  and  half  Graham 
flour;  set  the  vessel  containing  this  batter  into  another  contain- 
ing quite  warm,  but  not  hot  water.  Do  this  as  soon  as  you  can 
in  the  morning,  keeping  the  water  in  the  outer  vessel  warm,  and 
by  one  o'clock  the  yeast  ought  to  be  light  enough  to  mix  your 
bread,  which  do  by  adding  enough  warm  water  to  make  as 
much  bread  as  you  require.  Mould  at  once  into  pans,  let  it  rise, 
say  an  hour,  then  bake,  and  if  you  do  not  have  sweet  light  bread, 
it  won't  be  the  fault  of  the  directions. 

GRAHAM    SODA     BISCUITS. 

6.  Take  as  much  Graham  flour  as  you  think  you  will  need  for 
the  quantity  of  biscuits;  use  a  little  beef  drippings  or  butter  for 
shortening,  ve?y  little.  For  the  moistening  take  half  butter- milk 
and  half  cold  water  (milk  alone  toughens  the  biscuits;)  use 
half  a  teaspoonful  of  soda  to  a  pint  of  milk  and  water,  knead 
quite  stiff  and  thoroughly ;  roll  rather  thin  and  bake  quickly. 

RYE    BISCUITS. 

7.  We  make  the  same  as  Graham  soda  biscuits,  except  to 
use  the  unbolted  rye  flour ;  be  sure  that  it  is  unbolted. 

RYE  LIGHT    BREAD. 

8.  Two-thirds  unbolted  rye  flour,  one-third  cold  corn  meal 
mush;  mix  with  warm  water,  and  as  much  yeast  as  you  think  nee- 


32  OUR    DAILY    BREAD. 


essary.  We  usually  make  it  at  the  same  time  we  make  Graham 
light  bread  and  use  part  of  the  yeast  made  for  that.  Let  it  rise 
once,  mould,  and  when  light  bake. 

SODA   GEMS. 

9.  One  teacupful  of  buttermilk,  one  of  cold  water,  one 
half  teaspoon  ful  of  soda,  and  Graham  flour  to  make  a  batter; 
bake  in  greased  gem  pans,  or  drop  them  by  the  spoonful  in  a 
large  baking  pan,  so  that  they  will  not  touch  each  other. 

CORN  AND  GRAHAM  GEMS. 

10.  Soak  cold  corn  bread  over  night,  or  for  several  hours 
in  sour  milk,  mash  up  fine,  add  a  little  soda,  and  thicken  with 
Graham  flour  to  a  rather  stiff  batter.     Bake  in  gem  pans. 

CORN  MEAL  GEMS. 

11.  Take  two-thirds  of  the  quantity  of  corn  meal  that  you 
wish  to  use,  pour  over  it  boiling  water  enough  to  make  a  stiff 
batter,  thin  with  cold  sweet  milk  ;  then  add  the  cold  corn  meal 
till  of  the  right  consistency  to  drop  into  hot  greased  gem  pans,  let 
them  stand  on  the  stove  a  few  minutes,  and  then  bake  half  or 
three-quarters  of  an  hour. 

BATTER   BREAD. 

12.  Take  cold  corn  meal  mush,  thin  with  a  little  cold  sweet 
milk,  then  add  Graham  flour  and  cold  corn  meal  till  as  thick  as 
you  think  best,  which  must  be  very  thick ;  pour  into  a  baking 
pan  and  bake  half  an  hour. 

CORN    LIGHT  BREAD. 

13.  Take  two  quarts  of  corn  meal  and  scald  with  boiling 
water  to  the  consistency  of  mush  ;  when  cool  add  a  pint,  or  a 
little  more  of  Graham  flour,  a  pinch  of  salt  ;  if  you  have  yeast 


HOW    TO    PREPARE    IT.  33 

add  half  a  teacupful,  it  will  rise  quicker,  but  it  will  rise  without 
if  allowed  time  ;  let  it  stand  till  it  cracks  open  on  top,  then 
bake  for  two  hours.     Eat  hot  or  cold. 

CORN  AND   GRAHAM  BISCUITS. 

14.  Knead  Graham  flour  into  cold  corn  meal  mush  until  stiff 
enough  to  mold.     Roll,  cut  out,  and  bake  like  biscuits. 

HOMINY    MUFFINS. 

15.  Mash  fine  one  quart  cold-boiled  hominey,  add  one  egg, 
half  a  teacupful  of  sweet  milk,  and  thicken  with  white  flour. 
Bake  in  gem  pans  or  muflin  rings. 

KENTUCKY  CORN  BREAD. 

16.  Take  one  pint,  or  more  if  you  wish,  of  corn  meal;  stir 
in  cold  water  enough  to  make  a  pretty  stiff  batter;  have  your 
iron  griddle  on  the  stove,  hot  and  well  greased;  put  on  your 
batter,  spreading  it  smoothly,  covering  all  the  surface  ;  when 
browned  on  the  under  side,  cooking  slowly,  turn  it  it  over,  or  if 
you  like  remove  the  griddle  from  the  top  of  the  stove  to  a  quick 
oven  and  bake  half  or  three  quarters  of  an  hour.  If  made  rightly 
this  is  the  best  and  most  wholesome  corn  bread  made.  Some 
use  boiling  water  instead  of  cold,  in  mixing  the  meal  ;  either 
way  is  good. 

SQUASH    OR    PUMPKIN   JOHNNY  CAKE. 

17.  Pare  and  stew  your  squash  or  pumpkin  till  well  done  ; 
mash  fine,  then  stir  in  while  boiling,  corn  meal  enough  to  make 
a  stiff  batter,  add  enough  white  flour  to  keep  the  batter  from 
sticking  to  the  griddle,  and  bake  on  a  griddle  or  in  the  oven  in 
bread  pans. 


34  OUR    DAILY    BREAD. 


SNOW    BREAD. 

1 8.  Take  equal  parts  of  corn  meal  or  Graham  flour  and 
dry  light  snow,  stir  well  together  quickly,  fill  your  pans  full 
and  bake  immediately  in  a  hot  oven.  Eaten  warm  this  is  de- 
licious. 

POTATO  BISCUITS. 

19.  When  you  have  mashed  potato  left  from  dinner,  take 
it  before  getting  too  cold  an4  add  an  equal  amount  of  flour, 
rub  thoroughly  together,  roll  out  and  cut  as  for  biscuit — not 
too  thick — and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  till  a  light  brown. 

WHITE    GEMS. 

20.  One  cup  of  sweet  milk,  one  cup  of  water;  thicken  with 
white  flour  till  it  will  drop  easily  from  the  spoon  ;  beat  thorough- 
ly, have  your  gem  pans  hot  before  filling.  These  do  not  require 
so  hot  an  oven  as  the  Graham  gems. 

HALF-AND-HALF    GEMS. 

21.  One  cup  of  sweet  milk,  one  cup  of  cold  water,  one  cup 
of  corn  meal,  and  a  cup  and  a  half  of  Graham  flour ;  beat  rap- 
idly for  four  or  five  minutes,  drop  into  hot  gem  pans,  and  bake 
twenty  minutes  in  a  hot  oven. 

BREAD  OMELET. 

,  2  2.  Put  into  a  pan  a  teacupful  of  bread  crumbs,  pour  over 
this  a  teacupful  of  milk  ;  salt  slightly,  and  then  add  two  well 
beaten  eggs ;  fry  in  as  little  butter  as  possible,  roll  up  and  serve 
hot. 

JUG  YEAST. 

23.  Pare  and  boil  in  half  a  gallon  of  water  six  potatoes;  tie 
a  handful  of  hops  in  a  small  cloth  and  boil  with  them ;  with  the 


HOW   TO    PREPARE    IT.  35 


liquor  scald  one  teacupful  of  flour,  mash  the  potatoes  and  add 
them ;  when  cool  enough  add  one  teacupful  of  yeast.  When 
light  put  into  a  jug  and  keep  in  a  cool  place. 

DRY  YEAST. 

2  4..  Take  three  quarts  of  water,  three  handfuls  of  hops  and 
boil  the  hops  twenty  minutes;  take  one  quart  of  flour,  one  hand- 
ful of  salt  and  scald  the  flour  with  the  hop  water;  when  cooled 
till  milk  warm  add  one  teacupful  of  good  sweet  yeast,  previously 
soaked  ;  let  it  stand  twelve  hours,  stirring  down  twice  while  in 
process  of  fermentation,  then  thicken  with  corn  meal  stiff"  enough 
to  make  into  cakes  and  let  it  stand  twelve  hours  longer,  then 
make  in  cakes  and  put  in  the  shade  to  dry  where  it  will  not 
freeze — turn  frequently. 

LIGHT    BREAD. 

25.  Over  one  quart  of  Graham  flour  pour  one  and  a  half 
pints  of  boiling  corn  meal  mush  (the  mush  should  be  very  thin), 
and  when  cool  enough  add  half  a  teacupful  of  jug  yeast  or  one 
cake  of  dry  and  let  it  stand  over  night  in  a  warm  place ;  in  the 
morning  it  should  be  light ;  then  work  in  what  flour  you  need 
for  the  quantity  of  bread  you  wish,  adding  water  if  necessary; 
stir  up  as  stiff  as  you  can  with  a  spoon  (some  think  it  better  to 
knead  it  well  with  the  hands),  and  be  sure  and  have  it  a  very 
soft  dough  ;  let  it  rise,  then  mould  or  dip  with  a  spoon  into 
pans,  (add  no  flour  this  time),  fill  your  pans  half  full  and  let  it 
rise  to  the  top.     Bake  in  a  hot  oven  one  hour. 


36  OUR    DAILY    BREAD. 


PUDDINGS. 


APPLE  CUSTARD. 

1.  One  pint  of  smooth  apple  sauce  (either  green  or  dried), 
one  pint  of  milk,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  or  two  eggs,  and  flavor 
with  lemon  or  cinnamon.  Bake  half  an  hour.  This  amount 
will  make  the  filling  for  two  pies. 

APPLE  DUMPLINGS. 

2.  Make  a  crust  of  biscuit  dough,  the  same  as  for  hot  water 
bread,  of  either  white  or  Graham  flour;  pare,  quarter  and  core 
as  many  nice  tart  apples  as  you  wish  dumplings  (or  use  the 
apple  whole,  extracting  the  core) ;  cut  off  a  piece  of  the  crust, 
roll  out  about  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  and  put  in  your  apple ; 
add  sugar  and  a  little  allspice,  pinch  your  dough  well  together, 
put  your  dumplings  in  a  baking  pan  as  you  would  biscuit;  have 
enough  to  fill  your  pan  and  then  pour  over  them  boihng  water 
enough  to  half  fill  the  pan.  Bake  half  an  hour  in  a  quick  oven. 
Eat  hot  with  fruit  sauce  or  sugar  and  milk. 

APPLE  CHARLOTTE. 

3.  Thin  slices  of  bread  in  layers  with  apples  sliced  and 
sugar  sprinkled  over  them  (between) ;  pour  water  over,  cover 
with  a  plate  and  bake  a  long  time  in  a  slow  oven.  Eat  with 
cream  or  fruit  sauce. 

BOILED    PUDDING. 

4.  Make  a  rather  stiff  batter  of  one  pint  of  buttermilk,  one 
pint  of  cold  water,  an  even  teaspoonful  of  soda  and  a  little  salt; 


HOW    TO    PREPARE    IT.  37 


then  stir  in  any  kind  of  fresh  or  canned  fruit,  such  as  berries, 
cherries,  currants,  etc.  Scald  and  flour  a  pudding  cloth,  put 
your  batter  in,  leaving  room  for  swelling,  and  boil  for  two 
hours. 

BREAD     PUDDING. 

5.  Take  a  quart  of  bread  crumbs  and  pour  over  them  a 
quart  of  boiling  sweet  milk  ;  when  cool  add  two  eggs,  a  cup  of 
sugar,  and  flavoring  to  suit  the  taste.  Bake  till  the  custard  is 
set. 

BREAD  AND  APPLE  PUDDING. 

6.  One  quart  of  bread  crumbs,  one  quart  of  dried  apple 
sauce;  alternate  layers  of  crumbs  and  sauce  ;  sweeten  and  flavor 
the  sauce  to  taste.  Have  a  layer  of  crumbs  on  top  and  pour 
over  a  little  water,  enough  to  moisten  the  bread.  Bake  half  an 
hour. 

COTTAGE   PUDDING. 

7.  One  pint  of  buttermilk,  one  teacupful  of  sugar  and 
enough  soda  to  correct  the  acidity  of  the  milk ;  stir  in  Graham 
flour  to  make  a  stiff"  cake  ;  bake  quickly  and  eat  hot  with  fruit 
or  lemon  sauce. 

CORN   MEAL  PUDDING. 

8.  To  five  spoonfuls  of  corn  meal  scalded  with  boiHng 
water  add  a  quart  of  sweet  milk,  a  cup  of  sugar,  a  little  cinna- 
mon, a  pinch  of  salt  and  a  cup  of  raisins  or  currants  ;  stir  it  once 
or  twice  when  it  first  begins  to  bake.     Bake  two  hours. 

BAKED  INDIAN   PUDDING. 

9.  Eight  tablepoonfuls  of  Indian  meal,  stirred  into  three 
pints  of  scalding  milk.     Be   careful  to    scald    the  meal  without 


38  OUR   DAILY    BREAD. 


letting  it  boil.  Add  one  pint  cold  milk,  and  a  little  wheat  flour 
or  not  as  one  pleases,  one  small  teacup  of  molasses,  and,  if  liked, 
two  teacups  of  chopped  sweet  apples.  Stir  well  together  and 
bake  three  hours  Some  mix  all  together,  and  set  in  the  oven 
without  scalding  the  meal,  stirring  it  there  when  it  begins  to  bake 
and  it  is  less  trouble  and  nearly  or  quite  as  good. 

GRAHAM    PUDDING. 

10.  Take  sour  milk,  soda,  Graham  flour  (according  to  the 
size  you  want),  and  make  a  stiff  batter.  Put  a  layer  of  fruit, 
then  a  layer  of  the  batter  alternately,  and  bake  half  an  hour.  Eat 
with  any  kind  of  sauce  you  like. 

BAKED  APPLE  PUDDING, 

11.  Peel  and  slice  about  three  quarts  good  cooking  apples; 
mix  these  with  one  pint  Graham  flour  and  one  pint  corn  meal, 
one  teacupful  of  sugar,  and  water  enough  to  moisten  the  whole. 
Sprinkle  a  deep  pudding  dish  with  corn  meal  and  put  in  the 
fruit  dough  ;  make  a  batter  of  one  teacupful  each  of  corn  meal 
and  wheat  meal,  a  tablespoon ful  of  sugar  and  water  or  milk 
and  spread  over  the  top.      Bake  three  hours. 

HOMINY  PUDDING. 

12.  Two  cups  of  boiled  hominy,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup 
of  currants  or  raisins,  one  quart  of  milk,  and  bake  an  hour. 

OAT    MEAL  PUDDING. 

13.  Cold  oat  meal  mush  in  layers  with  any  nice  fruit  be- 
tween.    Bake  half  an  hour  in  a  quick  oven. 

TOAST  PUDDING. 

14.  Toast  slices  of  bread,  dip  in  milk  and  put  in  layers  in  a 
pudding  dish  with  layers  of  cooked  gooseberries  between.  Bake 
half  an  hour.     Fruit  sauce  or  none  at  all. 


HOW   TO   PREPARE   IT.  39 


TAPIOCA  AND  FRUIT  PUDDINGS. 

15.  Pour  boiling  water  over  a  teacupful  of  tapioca  and  let 
it  stand  on  the  back  of  the  stove  till  transparent ;  have  your 
fruit,  peaches,  berries  or  tart  apples  in  a  baking  dish,  sweetened 
to  taste ;  pour  the  tapioca  over  and  bake  till  the  fruit  is  cooked. 
Or  stir  canned  fruit  in  with  the  tapioca,  boil  altogether,  and 
mold  and  eat  cold. 

TO  BOIL  RICE    SAVANNAH  FASHION. 

16.  Take  one  pound  of  rice  and  pick  it  thoroughly  over.  Put 
on  the  fire  in  a  porcelain  or  tin-lined  pot,  three  quarts  of  water. 
Wash  the  rice  in  three  waters  to  get  rid  of  the  pulverized  rice- 
flour  which  adheres  to  the  grain.  This  is  a  necessity ;  otherwise 
the  rice  never  will  be  dry.  Throw  the  rice  in  the  water  when 
it  is  at  the  full  boil.  Let  it  boil  rapidly  for  twenty  minutes. 
Put  the  cover  on  and  drain  the  water  entirely  off.  Cover  the 
pot,  shake  well,  and  put  on  the  back  of  the  stove,  where  it  is  not 
too  hot,  for  fifteen  minutes.  This  evaporates  all  remaining 
moisture.  Shake  the  rice  into  the  dish  you  wish  to  serve  it  in. 
Never   use  a  spoon.     Rice   should    never  be  glutinous. 

BAKED  RICE  PUDDING. 

17.  One  teacupful  of  well  washed  rice,  one  cupful  of  sugar, 
one  cupful  of  raisins  or  currants,  and  two  quarts  of  sweet  milk. 
Put  the  rice  and  raisins  in  a  pudding  dish  on  the  top  of  the  stove 
and  pour  over  them  a  pint  of  boiling  water;  let  it  stand  till  the 
rice  swells  enough  to  absorb  all  the  water,  then  add  the  sugar 
and  milk,  a  little  salt,  and  a  very  little,  if  any,  of  cinnamon. 
Bake  in  a  slow  oven  two  hours.  If  the  milk  drys  out  too  much 
add  more.  Stir  occasionally  to  prevent  the  top  from  burning 
and  the  fruit  from  settling  at  the  bottom. 


40  OUR    DAILY    BREAD. 


RICE  AND  STRAWBERRY  PUDDING. 

1 8.  Boil  one  cup  of  rice  till  done;  have  ready,  sugared,  a 
pint  or  more  of  strawberries,  stir  these  into  the  rice,  turn  out 
in  a  glass  fruit  dish  and  serve  warm,  or  mould  and  serve  cold 
with  milk  or  cream. 

BLANC-MANGE. 

ig.  To  one  quart  of  sweet  milk  allow  six  tablespoonFuls  of 
corn  starch  ;  bring  the  milk  to  a  boil  and  then  stir  in  the  corn 
starch,  dissolved  in  cold  milk.     Mould  and  eat  cold. 

FRUIT  BLANC-MANGE. 

20.  Take  one  quart  of  any  of  the  rich  dark  colored  fruit, 
such  as  cherries,  currants,  or  berries  ;  after  they  are  prepared  as 
for  the  table  as  sauce,  add  four  tablespoonfuls  of  corn  starch 
and  let  it  cook  two  or  three  minutes ;  then  mould  as  blanc- 
mange. It  is  nice  to  put  this  into  the  mould  in  alternate  layers 
with  the  white  blanc-mange,  or  with  Graham  or  rye  mush.  Eat 
cold  with  cream  or  fruit  sauce. 

OATMEAL    BLANC-MANGE. 

2  1.  Take  one  quart  of  boiling  milk,  slightly  salted,  or  boil- 
ing water  will  do,  and  two  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  oat  flour, 
mixed  in  a  little  cold  water  to  form  a  paste,  and  stir  into  the 
boiling  milk,  and  continue  to  stir  it  twenty  minutes.  Turn  it 
into  a  mould.  May  be  eaten  either  cold  or  warm,  with  sugar 
and  cream. 

FLUMMERY. 

2  2.  With  one  half  teacupful  of  corn  starch  mix  cold  milk 
till  quite  thin ;  add  to  this  two  quarts  of  boiling  milk,  stirring  as 
you  pour  it,  and  let  it  boil  one  minute ;  then  add  three  well 
beaten  eggs,  a  cup  of  sugar  dissolved  in  cold  milk,  a  little  salt* 


HOW  .TO    PREPARE    IT.  4 1 


and  flavor  with  lemon  extract ;  let  it  boil  a  minute  longer  and 
serve  warm  or  cold.  It  makes  a  nice  sauce  for  cracked  wheat, 
puddings,  etc. 

THE  MOST  DELICATE  BLANC-MANGE. 

23.  Two  parts  of  milk  and  one  part  of  water;  when  it  boils 
thicken  with  equal  parts  of  white  flour  and  corn  starch.  Mould 
and  eat  cold  with  the  following  sauce  : 

COLD  LEMON  SAUCE. 

24.  Into  a  pint  of  boiling  water  stir  enough  white  flour  wet 
with  cold  water  to  make  it  the  consistency  of  thin  cream ; 
sweeten  to  taste  and  add  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  one  lemon  ; 
let  it  stand  till  cold  and  then  use  with  the  above  or  any  of  the 
cold  blanc-mange  or  puddings  in  this  book. 

PLAIN  CAKE  AND  FRUIT  DESERT. 

25.  Cut  in  slices  any  plain  cake  ;  put  one  slice  in  a  saucer 
and  pour  over  it  half  a  teacupful  or  more  of  any  juicy  acid 
stewed  fruit,  such  as  cherries  or  currants,  etc. 

RHUBARB  BLANC-MANGE. 

26.  Prepare  your  rhubarb  as  for  sauce,  then,  while  boiling, 
stir  in  bolted  rye  or  sifted  Graham  flour  till  stiff  enough  to  mould. 
To  be  eaten  cold  with  rhubarb  or  lemon  sauce.     Delicious. 

ICE  CREAM. 

27.  Into  one  quart  of  rich  milk  brought  to  a  boil,  stir 
enough  white  flour  mixed  in  a  thin  batter  with  cold  milk  to 
make  of  tlie  consistency  of  cream  ;  let  it  boil  a  minute  or  two, 
then  run  through  a  seive ;  sweeten  and  flavor  to  taste,  adding  a 
small  pinch  of  salt ;  set  aside  till  cold  and  then  freeze.  Now^ 
don't  be  disgusted  with  its  plainness,  but  try  it,  and  it  will  afford 
you  as  much  satisfaction  as  the  richest  custards  and  creams, 
without  their  bad  effects. 


42  OUR    DAILY    BRifAD. 


LEMON  ICE. 

28.  Make  near  a  gallon  of  rather  thick  corn  starch  and  to 
this  amount  add  the  juice  of  five  or  six  lemons,  and  sugar  to 
suit  your  taste  (the  less  the  better  for  you),  one  teaspoonful  of 
lemon  extract  or  a  little  of  the  grated  rind  of  the  lemon,  and  a 
scant  half  teaspoonful  of  salt ;  freeze  as  you  would  ice  cream. 

LEMON  TAPIOCA. 

29.  One  teacupful  of  tapioca  soaked  over  night  in  one 
quart  of  water  ;  in  the  morning  let  it  simmer  slowly  till  trans- 
parent, then  add  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  one  lemon,  one 
cup  of  sugar,  one  tablespoonful  of  corn  starch  and  pour  into 
moulds.     Serve  cold  with  or  without  sauce. 

BRAN   JELLY. 

30.  Into  three  quarts  of  boiling  water  stir  bran  enough  to 
make  it  the  consistency  of  gruel ;  let  it  boil  half  or  three-quar- 
ters of  an  hour  and  then  strain  through  a  fine  seive.  Put  the 
liquor  back  in  the  pot  and  let  it  come  to  a  boil ;  stir  in  enough 
sifted  Graham  flour,  wet  in  cold  water  to  a  smooth  batter  so  it 
will  not  lump,  to  make  it  as  stiff  as  blanc-mange ;  mould  and 
eat  cold  with  cream  or  any  of  the  sauces.  Allways  wet  your 
mould  in  cold  water  before  filling,  to  prevent  sticking.  This 
jelly  is  more  nutritious  than  beef  tea  and  an  excellent  substitute 
for  it. 

GIRAFFE  STRAWBERRY  DESSERT. 

31.  I  thus  denominate  this  dessert,  as  it  was  the  result  of 
one  of  our  experiments,  and  nameless.  After  eating  it  we  all 
wished  that  the  gustatory  pleasure  might  be  prolonged,  and 
could  see  no  harmless  way  to  reach  the  desideratum  unless  it 
would  be  to  have  necks  like  a  giraffe,  so  the  good  taste  might  be 
longer  continued.  Make  a  batter  of  two  cups  very  sour  milk, 
one  heaping  cup  sugar,  one  heaping  tablespoonful  butter;  mix  the 


HOW   TO   PREPARE   IT.  43 

sugar  and  butter  well  together ;  add  lemon  flavoring  ;  then  pour 
in  the  sour  milk  and  stir  in  part  of  the  flour — good  Graham 
flour;  dissolve  one  teaspoonful  of  soda  with  a  spoonful  of  hot 
water,  and  add  this  and  enough  more  flour  to  make  a  moderate- 
ly stiff"  batter — not  too  stiff".  Have  your  jelly  cake  pans  butter- 
ed, and  bake  this  in  delicate  layers  as  for  jelly  cake.  Now 
make  a  frosting,  using  the  whites  of  two  eggs  and  fine  sugar 
enough  to  thicken  so  it  can  be  spread  on  each  layer.  On  taking 
the  pans  from  the  oven,  cut  with  a  large  sized  biscuit  cutter 
a  hole  directly  in  the  centre  of  each  layer.  Place  a 
layer  on  a  large  white  plate,  spread  on  some  frosting,  and  so 
on  to  the  last,  then  frost  the  sides  and  top  ;  this  leaves  a  ''well" 
in  the  middle  of  the  cake.  Just  as  you  sit  down  to  dinner  fill 
this  "  well "  with  mashed  and  sweetened  strawberries  ;  place  a 
row  of  large  fine  berries  around  the  top,  and  a  wreath  of  myrtle 
around  the  bottom  of  the  cake ;  intersperse  this  with  the  red 
berries.  To  serve,  cut  this  as  you  would  jelly  cake,  putting 
with  each  piece  a  portion  of  the  jam.  It  calls  for  no  other 
trimmings. 

Stewed  and  thickened  strawberries  are  also  nice  for  this. 
The  same  may  be  varied  by  filling  the  "  well"  with  soft  peaches, 
canned  peaches,  any  kind  of  berries,  or  even  ice  cream  or  lemon 
ice. 

Nice  tart  apples,  stewed  and  run  through  a  hair-seive; 
then  the  white  of  an  egg  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth  and  stirred  with 
this,  adding  sugar  and  a  little  nutmeg,  makes  nice  filling.  This 
is  also  nice  for  tarts,  or  to  be  eaten  with   plain  cake  as  dessert. 

STRAWBERRY  SHORT  CAKE 

32.  Make  nice  biscuit  dough;  roll  quite  thin,  though  not 
as  thin  as  for  pie  crust ;  bake  in  large  sheets  in  a  dripping  pan  ; 
then  cut  in  pieces  to  fit  "a  large  platter.  Have  ready  a  quantity 
of  mashed  and  sweetened  strawberries,   and  spread  this  thickly 


44  OUR    DAILY    BREAD. 


over  the  first  crust ;  then  put  on  another  layer,  and  spread  more 
of  the  jam,  and  so  on  for  as  many  layers  as  you  like.  Around 
the  edge  of  the  dish  place  a  row  of  very  nice  large  whole  ber- 
ries, and  if  you  like,  make  a  pyramid  of  berries  on  the  top,  and 
sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar.  This  does  not  need  cream  and 
sugar,  or  even  butter,  to  be  eaten  with  it.  Stewed  strawberries, 
the  juice  thickened  to  a  jelly  with  corn  starch  and  sweetened, 
is  very  nice  to  use  in  this  way.  Any  kind  of  berries  may  be 
substituted  for  strawberries,  and  its  name  changed  accordingly. 

BAKED    CUSTARD. 

^^.  To  one  quart  of  mock  cream,  made  the  same  as  for  ice 
cream,  take  one  egg  beaten  with  half  a  cupful  of  sugar,  or  more 
sugar  if  preferred.  Mix  the  egg  and  sugar  with  the  cream,  when 
the  cream  has  cooled  so  as  not  to  allow  the  egg  to  coagulate. 
"Add  salt  and  vanilla  or  lemon  flavoring.  Bake  until  the  custard  is. 
■just  turned.  This  makes  nice  filling  for  crust,  thus  calling  it 
custard  pie. 

APPLE  PUDDING. 

34.  Peel  and  stew  nice  tart  apples  until  well  done ;  then 
stir  slowly  in  this  sauce  dry  corn  meal  until  you  have  a  delicate 
mush.  Cook  half  an  hour  or  more.  Serve  hot  as  dessert^ 
Cream  and  sugar,  or  mock  cream  sauce,  or  nice  syrup,  may  be 
eaten  with  this. 

FLOATING  ISLAND. 

35.  To  one  quart  of  mock  cream,  use  two  eggs.  First 
bring  the  milk  to  a  boil;  have  the  whites  of  the  eggs  beaten  to 
a  stiff  froth;  dip  a  spoonful  at  a  time  of  this  into  the  scalding 
milk ;  turn  it  over  and  let  it  remain  a  moment,  just  long  enough 
to  "set"  the  egg.  Put  this  in  a  dish;  have  some  thin  white 
fiour  batter,  with  which  thicken  the  milk,  till  of  the  consistency 


HOW    TO    PREPARE    IT.  45 


of  thick  cream.  Run  it  through  a  seive,  and  while  hot  add  the 
yolks  of  the  eggs,  beaten  with  sugar,  and  some  cold  milk,  so  the 
yolks  will  not  curdle;  stir  briskly  and  set  to  cool;  flavor  with 
lemon  and  put  in  a  pinch  of  salt.  This  may  be  brought  to  the 
table  in  a  large  glass  dish  or  in  individual  glasses.  The  whites 
of  the  eggs  will  be  placed  on  top  of  the  dish.  Some  like  colored 
sugar  sprinkled  over  the  top.  It  is  prettier  in  its  pure  white- 
ness. 


SAUCES  FOR  PUDDINGS. 

LEMON  SAUGE. 

1.  Four  tablespoonfuls  of  white  flour  or  common  starch  ; 
mix  smoothly,  so  that  there  shall  be  no  lumps,  with  half  a  tea- 
cupful  of  cold  water ;  pour  over  this  a  pint  of  boiling  water, 
stirring  all  the  time.  Put  on  the  stove ;  add  a  teacupful  of 
sugar,  the  grated  rind  and  juice  of  one  lemon  and  a  small  pinch 
of  salt.  If  stiffer  than  you  like  add  more  hot  water.  Let  it 
cook  for  ten  minutes. 

ORANGE  SAUCE. 

2.  Orange  sauce  we  make  the  same  as  the  above,  substi- 
tuting for  the  lemon  the  juice  of  two  oranges,  though  none  of 
the  rind. 

FRUIT  SAUCE. 

3.  Take  a  quart  of  the  juice  of  any  fruit;  if  too  rich  make 
it  half  water ;  sweeten  to  taste,  and  while  hot  add  a  tablespoon- 
ful  of  corn  starch.  This  is  nice  for  fruit  blanc-mange  or  any  of 
the  flour  blanc-manges. 


46  OUR    DAILY    BREAD. 


PATENT  CREAM. 

4.  One  quart  of  sweet  milk  brought  to  a  boil,  into  which 
stir  a  tablespoonful  of  corn  starch.  Cook  one  minute,  not 
more. 

JELLY  SAUCE. 

5.  This  is  made  the  same  as  lemon  sauce,  only  instead  of 
the  lemon  use  any  fruit  jelly  or  jam  for  flavoring. 

MILK  GRAVY. 

6.  To  a  quart  of  good  sweet  milk  as  it  comes  to  the  boiling 
point  add  a  heaping  tablespoonful  of  superfine  flour,  mixed  to  a 
batter  with  milk  or  cream,  adding  a  beaten  egg.  As  soon  as 
the  mixture  boils  it  is  ready  for  the  table.  If  allowed  to  boil 
over  half  a  minute  it  is  nearly  spoiled,  the  creaminess  which 
nice  care  in  cooking  gives  it  being  lost. 

PUDDING  SAUCE. 

7.  The  same  gravy  made  thinner,  without  the  egg,  and 
sweetened,  and,  perhaps,  with  a  little  more  cream  added,  makes 
a  very  nice  sauce  for  puddings  and  dumplings. 


PIES. 

Fruit  pies  should  be  made  generally  with  cooked  fruit, 
when  very  rich  crust  is  not  used,  because  the  time  required  for 
cooking  the  raw  fruit  when  inside  the  pie  is  so  disproportioned 
to  that  which  the  crust  requires,  as  to  bring  the  crust  overdone 
or  the  fruit  underdone.  In  making  apple  pie  I  prefer  to  have 
the  fruit  stewed  and  seasoned  before  putting  into  tht  crust. 


HOW  TO   PREPARE   IT.  47 


Berries,  grapes,  plums,  etc.,  require  a  little  thickening  of 
corn  starch  or  white  flour.  Add  this  in  the  form  of  a  smooth, 
thin  batter  to  the  boiling  fruit  as  it  is  about  to  be  removed  from 
the  stove.  The  right  consistency  of  the  juice  thus  prepared 
should  be  that  of  a  light  jelly. 

Tomato  pie  is  very  nice  made  like  any  fruit  pie — stewing 
the  tomatoes,  sweetening  and  adding  some  flavoring — lemon  is 
mostly  preferred. 

PREPARED  SUET  OR  SHORTENING. 

1.  To  one  pound  of  nice  white  beef  suet,  cut  fine,  put  one 
quart  of  cold  water  ;  boil  this  until  the  water  is  wholly  evapor- 
ated, then  simmer  a  few  moments  and  strain.  Salt  may  be 
added  if  preferred.  This,  if  well  prepared,  makes  the  most  de- 
sirable material  for  shortening.  For  most  uses  I  prefer  it  tO' 
butter  in  point  of  wholesomeness.  It  has  no  flavor  of  *'  tallow," 
which  is  always  present  when  suet  is  merely  "  tried  out,"  with- 
out first  being  subjected  to  the  boiling  process. 

PIE  GRUST. 

2.  One  cup  of  prepared  suet  to  two  cups  cold  water, 
and  a  small  pinch  of  soda — less  than  one-fourth  of  a  teaspoon- 
ful.  Have  the  suet  somewhat  softened  by  being  placed  near 
the  fire  ;  rub  this  into  a  small  quantity  of  flour  until  well  mixed; 
add  the  soda  first,  then  the  water.  Make  a  stifl"  dough,  work  it 
well  and  roll  very  thin.  Graham  flour  requires  less  shortening 
than  white  flour.     We  use  Graham  flour  for  pie  crust. 

ANOTHER  WAY 

3.  Take  equal  quantities  of  mashed  potatoes  and  flour, 
adding  a  little  cream  if  liked.  Roll  this  kind  of  crust  a  little 
thicker. 


48  OUR    DAILY    BREAD. 


STILL    ANOTHER. 

4.  An  easier  crust  to  make  is  to  wet  up  the  flour  with  milk 
or  cream — the  more  cream  the  richer.  Even  sour  cream  needs 
no  soda,  or  but  little,  and  shortens  better  than  sweet  cream. 

CUSTARD  PIES. 

5.  Two  pints  of  milk,  two  eggs,  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
white  flour,  one  cup  of  sugar.  Bring  half  the  milk  to  a  boil ; 
stir  in  the  flour  dissolved  in  half  a  cup  of  cold  water  ;  let 
it  boil  a  minute;  then  take  off  and  add  the  cold  milk,  sugar  and 
last  the  eggs,  well  beaten.  Flavor  with  lemon.  This  makes 
two  pies. 

FRUIT  COBBLER. 

6.  Make  a  biscuit  crust;  line  with  it  the  bottom  and  sides 
of  a  baking  pan  ;  have  your  fruit  ready  cooked  and  sweetened 
to  taste  ;  put  it  in  your  pan,  and  cover  with  an  upper  crust. 
Bake  till  the  crust  is  done.  Remove  it  from  the  oven,  take  off 
the  top  crust,  lay  it  on  a  platter,  spread  over  it  a  thick  layer  of 
the  fruit ;  then  cut  the  side  crusts  loose  and  lay  on  the  top  of 
the  fruit,  then  more  fruit,  then  the  bottom  crust,  and  if  there  is 
still  more  fruit  pour  it  over  the  top.  Good  either  hot  or  cold, 
with  or  without  sauce.  If  you  make  it  of  apples  or  peaches  it  is 
not  necessary  to  thicken  the  juice,  but  if  of  berries  or  cherries, 
stir  in  a  little  white  flour  when  cooking  before  putting  into  the 
pie. 

ANOTHER  COBBLER. 

7.  Another  cobbler,  more  easily  made,  is  to  bake  a  cake  of 
biscuit  dough  rolled  out  half  an  inch  thick.  When  done  split  it 
in  two  with  a  sharp  knife,  lay  on  a  platter,  and  pour  your  pre- 
pared fruit  over  it,  having  plenty  of  juice. 


HOW    TO    PREPARE    IT.  49 


I 


SQUASH  PIE. 

8.  Stew  squash  thoroughly,  allowing  it  to  stew  down  quite 
dry ;  rub  it  through  a  collander.  To  one  pint  of  squash  add 
one  spoonful  of  white  flour,  mix  well,  and  pour  over  this  a  scant 
pint  of  boiling  milk ;  a  pinch  of  salt ;  flavor  and  sweeten  to 
taste.     Pumpkin  may  be  treated  similarly. 

TARTS. 

9.  Make  a  crust  of  Graham  flour  and  sweet  cream  ;  roll 
thin ;  cut  out  with  a  biscuit  cutter,  and  line  gem  pans  with  it, 
or  turn  up  the  edge  of  each  and  pinch  it  in  place ;  prick  with  a 
fork  to  prevent  blistering.  Bake  quickly.  Take  out  of  the  pans 
and  put  on  plates  to  cool.  Fill  with  any  nice  fruit  sauce  or  with 
filling  for  cream  pie. 

RICE  PIE. 

10.  Take  one  pint  of  cold  boiled  rice,  one  pint  of  sweet 
milk,  one  egg,  and  two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  sugar  ;  stir  all  well  to- 
gether. This  amount  will  make  two  pies.  Add  more  milk  if 
you  wish  it  thinner.     Bake  with  an  under  crust,  as  custard  pie. 

APPLE  PIE. 

11.  Bake  with  lower  and  upper  crust.  Cut  tart  apples  into 
quarters ;  fill  the  pie  plate  heaping  full ;  sweeten,  add  a  little 
water,  and  put  on  the  top  crust.  Bake  slowly  till  the  apples  are 
cooked,  which  should  be  about  half  an  hour. 

CREAM   PIE. 

12.  Bake  your  crust  first,  and  lift  it  out  on  a  plate.  For 
filling  take  half  a  pint  sweet  milk  and  half  a  pint  of  water ; 
bring  to  a  boil ;  then  stir  in  two  heaping  tablespoonfuls  of  white 
flour  made  into  a  smooth  batter  with  a  little  cold  milk.  Then 
add  the  yolk  of  one  egg,  half  a   teacupful  ol   sugar,  a  pinch  of 


50  OUR    DAILY    BREAD. 


-salt,  and  flavor  with  lemon  or  vanilla,  and  pour  into  the  crust. 
Beat  the  white  of  the  egg  to  a  froth  with  one  or  two  tablespoon- 
fuls  of  sugar,  and  spread  over  the  pie.  Put  it  in  the  oven  and 
let  it  brown.     To  be  eaten  cold. 

LEMON   PIE. 

13.  Into  one  pint  of  boiling  water  stir  three  tablespoonfuls 
of  corn  starch  and  one  cup  of  sugar  and  a  little  salt ;  let  it  stand 
till  cool;  then  add  the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  one  lemon  and 
the  yolk  of  an  egg.  Bake  till  done ;  then  spread  over  the  top 
the  white  of  the  egg  beaten  stiff,  to  which  add  one  spoonful  of 
sugar.     Return  to  the  oven  and  brown. 


CAKE. 

HYGIENE  CAKE. 

1.  One  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  sour  cream  (or  half  cup  of 
sour  milk  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  butter),  one  scant  teaspoon- 
ful  of  soda  and  two  eggs ;  flavor  with  lemon  extract ;  thicken 
with  Graham  flour,  not  quite  so  stiff  as  if  you  were  using  white 
flour.     Bake  as  a  loaf  cake,  or  in  layers  with  jelly  between. 

You  can  make  a  jelly  at  any  time  for  this  by  taking  any 
acid  fruit  juice — pie  plant,  cherry,  etc. — sweetening  to  suit  the 
taste,  and  thickening  to  a  jelly  with  corn  starch.  Spread  it  on 
the  cakes  while  warm. 

GINGER  BREAD. 

2.  One  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  molasses,  one  tablespoon- 
ful  of  melted  butter,  one  teacupful  of  sour  milk,  one  teaspoonful 
soda,  one  of  ginger,  and  one  of  cinnamon.  Thicken  with  Gra- 
ham flour  and  bake  twenty  minutes. 


HOW   TO    PREPARE    IT.  5I 


I 


GRAHAM   COOKIES. 

3.  Two  cups  of  sugar,  two  cups  of  hot  water,  one  cup  of 
butter,  one  half  teaspoonful  of  soda;  flavor  with  a  little  cinna- 
mon or  lemon.  Mould  soft  with  Graham  flour  and  bake  in  a 
quick  oven. 

GRAHAM  COOKIES  NO.  2. 

4.  One  cup  of  sour  cream,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  half  tea- 
spoonful  of  soda.     Flavor  to  taste.     Mould  very  soft. 

YEAST  CAKE. 

5.  To  two  cups  of  light  bread  dough  add  one  cup  of  sugar, 
one  heaping  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one  half  cup  of  sweet  milk, 
one  teaspoonful  of  either  cinnamon  or  ginger.  Drop  from  a 
spoon  into  gem  pans,  and  let  them  stand  till  light ;  then  bake. 

SOFT  GINGER  BREAD. 

6.  One  cup  of  molasses,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  hot 
water,  one  tablespoonful  of  butter,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda ; 
mix  not  very  stiff  with  Graham  flour;  flavor  with  ginger  or  cin- 
namon or  both  to  taste.     Bake  quickly. 

FRUIT  CAKE. 

7.  One  cup  of  butter,  two  cups  sour  milk,  three  cups  sugar, 
two  teaspoonfuls  soda,  one  teaspoonful  cinnamon,  one  of  cloves, 
and  one  of  ginger;  of  currants  and  chopped  raisins  more  or  less 
as  desired.  Brown  half  of  the  flour  used,  and  make  not  very 
stiff.  Bake  four  hours  in  a  slow  oven.  This  improves  with 
age. 

SPONGE  CAKE. 

8.  Two  cups  of  sugar,  four  eggs,  two  cups  of  sifted  Graham 
flour,  one  cup  boiling  water,    two   teaspoonfuls   of  baking  pow- 


52  OUR    DAILY    BREAD. 


der;  flavor  with  lemon  or  vanilla.  Beat  the  eggs  and  sugar 
together  for  twenty  minutes,  add  the  flour  and  baking  powder 
and  flavoring,  and  last  the  boiling  water.  Bake  immediately, 
in  not  too  hot  an  oven.  May  be  baked  in  layers,  with  jelly  or 
cocoanut  between. 

PLAIN  CAKE. 

9.  One  cup  sugar,  one  cup  sour  milk,  one  teaspoonful 
soda ;  rather  thin  batter  with  Graham  flour ;  lemon  flavoring. 
Eat  warm. 

WHITE  CAKE. 

10.  Whites  of  two  eggs  beaten  till  very  light,  one  table- 
spoonful  of  butter,  one  and  a  half  cups  of  sugar  beaten  to  a 
cream,  half  a  cup  of  sweet  milk,  one  teaspoonful  of  baking 
powder,  one  and  a  half  or  two  cups  of  flour  3  flavor  to  taste. 

DELICATE  CAKE. 

II.  Whites  of  four  eggs,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  half  a  cup  of 
butter,  two  cups  of  sugar,  two  and  a  half  cups  of  flour,  and  two 
teaspoonfuls  of  baking  powder. 

LEMON  JELLY  FOR  LAYER  CAKE. 

12.  One  cup  of  sugar,  one  egg,  one  tablespoonful  butter, 
the  gratedf  ind  and  juice  of  one  lemon  ;  boil  till  thick. 

CREAM  FILLING    FOR  CAKE. 

13.  One  half  cup  of  sweet  milk,  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
sugar,  one  tablespoonful  of  fine  flour:  boil  till  thick;  flavor 
with  vanilla. 


HOW   TO   PREPARE   IT.  53 


FRUITS. 


Cooked  fruit  should  never  be  sweetened  until  just  as  it  is 
taken  from  the  fire.  Jellies  made  similarly  are  better,  allowing 
the  juice  to  boil  well  before  adding  the  sugar,  and  one  fourth 
sugar  is  better  than  one  half. 

BAKED  APPLE  SAUCE. 

1.  Quarter  and  core,  but  do  not  pare,  your  apples;  put 
them  in  a  deep  baking  dish,  earthen  ware  is  best,  and  add 
enough  water  to  nearly  fill  the  dish ;  bake  in  a  slow  oven  for 
two,  three  or  more  hours  ;  do  not  let  them  burn.  It  is  a  good 
plan  to  cover  them  with  a  plate  while  baking.  If  the  water  all 
evaporates  add  more,  so  that  the  apples  will  be  juicy  when  done- 
Persons  whose  stomachs  are  so  weak  that  they  can  eat  apples 
cooked  in  no  other  way,  can  eat  this  sauce.  The  long  cooking 
does  away  with  the  need  of  sugar.  We  make  our  boiled  apple 
sauce  in  the  same  way,  cooking  slowly  for  two  or  three  hours,  but 
the  baked  is  nicer. 

PIE  PLANT. 

2.  Wash  the  stalks,  cut  off  the  leaves,  cut  the  stalks  into 
inch  pieces  and  fill  a  pudding  or  other  baking  dish  full;  add 
water  till  near  the  top,  but  not  so  that  it  will  run  over  when  it 
begins  to  cook.  Bake  for  two  hours  slowly,  so  that  the  pieces 
will  not  break  ;  about  fifteen  minutes  before  taking  out  pour 
over  it  the  sugar  and  a  tablespoonful  of  corn  starch  to  a  quart  of 
the  fruit,  dissolved  in  water.  Let  it  boil  up  well  together,  then 
take  up  and  let  it  cool  in  the  dish  it  is  baked  in.  Nothing  could 
be  nicer. 


54  OUR   DAILY   BREAD. 


GOOSEBERRIES. 


3.  Put  your  berries  in  an  earthen  or  porcelain  kettle  or  pan 
and  pour  over  them  enough  boiling  water  to  almost  cover 
them;  when  cooked  add  sugar  to  taste  and  enough  corn  starch 
so  that  the  juice  will  be  about  as  thick  as  thin  cream. 


CHERRIES,  CURRANTS,  BERRIES,  ETC. 

4.  These  may  all  be  cooked  in  the  same  way  as  the  goose- 
berries, adding  corn  starch,  if  preferred,  or  if  the  fruit  is  very 
juicy.  As  we  do  not  approve  of  drinking  at  meals,  we  like  to 
have  our  fruit  as  juicy  as  possible.  In  all  the  sauces  we  wse  as 
little  sugar  as  we  can  and  yet  have  the  fruit  palatable. 


DRIED  FRUITS. 

5.  Dried  apples  and  peaches  we  wash  in  two  or  three  waters. 
Apples  will  cook  in  three  hours  but  peaches  take  longer.  Peaches 
are  better  if  mashed  up  when  almost  done.  We  sometimes  cook 
the  two  together,  mashing  them  up  when  done.  We  also  add 
raisins  or  currants,  as  this  gives  us  a  variety  in  sauces.  We  use 
no  sugar  with  these.  Prunes  we  cook  in  a  good  deal  of  water, 
adding  a  little  sugar ;  the  prunes  absorb  so  much  water  that 
to  have  any  juice  at  all  when  cold  we  have  to  cook  them  in  a 
large  quantity  of  water  and  sugar  to  give  a  little  more  body  to 
to  the  juice. 

Many  pleasant  combinations  can  be  made  by  mixing  the 
different  fruits ;  as  peaches  with  apples,  raspberries  with  apples, 
raspberries  with  blackberries,  etc.  This  to  many  is  an  improve- 
ment. Thus,  peaches  alone  are  too  rich,  but  mixed  in  small 
proportions  with  apples  add  very  much  to  their  excellence, 
either  for  pies  or  sauce. 


HOW    TO    PREPARE    IT.  55 


CRANBERRIES. 

6.  We  use  two  parts  cranberries  and  one  part  raisins, 
cooked  together,  and  think  it  a  great  improvement,  as  then  the 
cranberries  do  not  require  as  much  sugar.  A  little  corn  starch 
added  to  this  sauce  is  also  ,an  improvement. 

CANNED   FRUITS. 

7.  We  always  open  twelve  hours  before  using,  that  the  car- 
bonic acid  gas  may  escape ;  or  else  bring  it  to  a  boil,  which  has 
the  same  effect.     Peaches,  especially,  should  be  so  treated. 

ORANGE  AND  LEMON  EXTRACTS. 

8.  Pare  the  orange  or  lemon  before  extracting  the  juice  ; 
lay  the  peeling  by  to  dry  until  you  have  as  much  as  you  wish, 
then  put  into  a  tightly  corked  bottle  and  cover  with  alcohol ;  let 
it  stand  four  or  five  days  and  then  pour  off  and  bottle  for  use. 
This  is  far  superior  to  any  extract  you  can  buy. 


TOAST. 


MILK    TOAST. 


I.  Cut  bread  in  even  slices  ;  cover  the  bottom  of  a  large 
dripping  pan  with  them  and  put  in  a  hot  oven ;  if  it  browns  on 
the  top  first  turn  the  slices  over ;  this  is  the  nicest  way  to 
make  toast  as  then  it  is  toasted  through  and  only  requires 
enough  attention  to  keep  it  from  burning.  While  this  is  toast- 
ing prepare  your  mock  cream  by  adding  to  one  quart  of  boiling 
milk  one  heaping  tablespoonful  of  fine  flour  mixed  in  a  smooth 
batter  with  cold  milk  ;  salt  slightly  and  boil  one  minute,  not 
longer.     Have  ready  a  pan  of  boiling  water  into  which  dip  each 


56  OUR    DAILY    BREAD. 


slice  of  toast ;  lay  in  a   dish   and    when    full   pour  over  all  the 
dressing. 

Brown  bread  is  used  in  all  these  toasts.  It  is  realy  much 
nicer  than  the  white. 

CODFISH  TOAST. 

2.  Prepare  the  toast  as  for  milk  toast,  only  dip  each  slice  in 
boiling  milk  instead  of  water ;  put  a  layer  of  slices  in  a  dish  and 
spread  over  this  a  layer  of  codfish  (which  is  prepared  by  being 
soaked  for  an  hour  or  two  in  hot  water,  well  picked  to  pieces  ; 
put  over  the  fire,  with  a  little  cream  or  milk  and  batter  added, 
and  brought  to  a  boil),  then  another  layer  of  toast,  alternating 
till  the  dish  is  full ;  over  this  pour  the  mock  cream. 

EGG  TOAST. 

3.  Dip  each  slice  of  toast  in  boiling  milk,  lay  on  a  platter, 
and  then  on  each  slice  put  a  poached  egg.     Serve  hot. 

MINCE  BEEF  TOAST. 

4.  Take  round  steak  or  cold  rare  steak,  chop  fine  and  put 
in  a  skillet  with  a  little  water,  butter  and  salt;  let  it  simmer  for 
half  a  minute  or  so.'  Have  your  toast  prepared  as  for  egg 
toast,  spread  some  of  the  meat  over  each  slice  and  send  to  the 
table  smoking  hot. 

CORN  BREAD  TOAST. 

5.  Cut  cold  corn  bread  into  slices,  toast  in  the  oven,  dip  in 
water  and  pour  over  it  the  milk  dressing.  It  is  very  nice  to  use 
some  corn  and  some  Graham  bread  together  for  milk  toast. 

TOMATO    TOAST. 

6.  Pour  over  nicely  browned  toast  stewed  ripe  or  green 
tomatoes,  or  if  preferred  fry  the  tomatoes,  either  ripe  or  green, 
season,  lay  on  slices  of  toast  dipped  in  boiling  milk. 

CREAM  TOAST. 

7.  Dip  slices  of  toast  in  boiling  water,  then  pour  on  each 
slice  two  or  three  tablespoonfuls  of  cream. 


HOW    TO    PREPARE    IT.  57 


MUSHES. 


CORN  MEAL  MUSH. 

1.  If  you  can  get  it  use  the  unbolted  corn  meal  and  sift  it. 
To  three  quarts  of  boiling  water  add  one  pint  of  corn  meal  mixed 
smoothly  in  one  pint  of  cold  water;  stir  briskly  while  pouring 
in  this  batter.  The  mixture  will  look  more  like  gruel  than 
mush,  but  by  the  time  it  has  boiled  two  hours  (it  is  not  fit  to  eat 
with  less  cooking)  it  will  be  thick  enough,  and  you  will  say  it  is 
the  best  mush  you  ever  ate.  Some  add  a  teaspoonful  of  salt  to 
the  above  quantity.  Let  your  mush  boil  for  fifteen  or  twenty 
minutes,  stirring  all  the  time,  and  then  set  on  the  back  of  the 
stove  and  stir  occasionally. 

In  the  winter  you  can  make  a  large  quantity  of  mush  and 
either  fry  or  bake  for  breakfast  the  next  morning.  To  bake  it 
put  as  much  as  you  wish  in  a  baking  pan  and  put  in  a  hot  oven 
for  half  an  hour  or  more.  You  can  not  cook  corn  meal  too 
much. 

GRAHAM  MUSH. 

2.  Graham  and  rye  mush  we  make  in  the  same  way  as  corn 
meal  mush,  only  that  it  takes  twice  as  much  flour  to  the  quan- 
tity of  water  and  does  not  need  to  cook  more  than  half  an  hour. 
These  mushes  we  often  mould  and  eat  cold  with  any  of  the 
pudding  sauces  or  sugar  and  cream.  Dates  stirred  in  with  the 
Graham  mush  and  then  eaten  cold  with  milk  or  cream  is  de- 
licious. 

OAT  MEAL  PORRIDGE. 
5.   Into  one  quart    of  boiling    water    stir   one  teacupful  of 
granulated  oats,  and  let  it  boil  actively  two  hours.     Boil  it  in  a 
double  boiler,  and  do  not  take  off  the  lid   or  stir  it  until  done,, 
when  it  may  be  stirred  thoroughly  and  poured  into  a  mould. 


58  OUR    DAILY    BREAD. 


OAT  MEAL    MUSH. 

4.  Oat  meal  mush  we  seldom  make  as  it  is  too  strong  food 
for  a  week  stomach,  but  strong  healthy  people  can  digest  it. 
Make  it  as  Graham  mush,  only  do  not  stir  it  more  than  necessa- 
ry to  keep  it  from  burning  and  let  it  cook  for  an  hour.  .  Most 
people  make  their  mushes  too  stiff;  they  are  not  nearly  so  deli- 
cate. You  do  not  want  it  stiff  enough  to  cut  with  a  knife,  but 
so  it  will  almost  run  from  the  spoon — especially  if  you  wish  to 
mould  it;. 

CRACKED  WHEAT. 

5.  Is  best  cooked  in  a  double  boiler,  so  that  it  needs  no 
stirring;  cook  two  or  three  hours.  Longer  does  not  hurt  it.  If 
you  like  cook  raisins  with  it  and  add  sugar  and  a  little  cream 
or  milk  half  an  hour  before  taking  up.  This  makes  a  nice  des- 
sert. 

HOMINY. 

6  Wash  in  two  or  three  waters,  a  quart  of  hominy ;  have 
a  kettle  half  full  of  boiling  water  (be  sure  it  is  boiling),  then  put 
your  hominy  in  and  let  it  cook  fully  half  a  day.  All  day  will 
be  better.  Stir  it  often  enough  to  keep  from  burning  ;  if  more 
water  is  needed  add  it  boiling  hot.  When  ready  for  use  add  a 
little  salt,  cream  or  milk,  and  serve  hot.  It  is  just  as  good  (or 
better)  every  time  it  is  warmed  over ;  only  season  as  much  at  a 
time  as  you  wish  to  use.  In  winter  you  can  cook  enough  at 
one  time  to  last  a  week.  It  is  nice  cut  in  slices,  rolled  in  flour, 
and  fried  in  a  little  butter  or  suet. 

FRIED   CORN   MEAL  MUSH. 

7.  Cut  in  slices  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  roll  in  white  flour 
and  fry  a  delicate  brown  in  as  little  butter  or  suet  as  you  can  use. 
Don't  burn  it  on  one  side  and  leave  it  white  on  the  other. 
Oat  meal  or  Graham  mush  is  nice  prepared  in  the  same  ^ay. 


HOW    TO    PREPARE    IT.  59 


TO  WARM  OVER  HOMINY. 

8.  Put  into  the  vessel  as  much  hominy  as  you  want  to  use, 
then  mash  it  well  with  the  potato  masher ;  add  a  little  milk  and 
salt,  and  stir  constantly  while  over  the  fire.  Don't  use  to  much 
milk;  half  a  pint  to  a  quart  of  hominy  will  be  enough. 


GRIDDLE    CAKES. 


BREAD  GRIDDLE  CAKES. 

1.  Soak  dry  bread,  either  Graham  or  corn  meal,  over  night 
in  sour  milk.  In  the  morning  beat  it  up  well,  add  enough  soda 
to  correct  the  acidity  of  the  milk,  and  enough  graham  flour  to 
make  it  a  thin  batter.  Fry  on  griddles  just  greased  enough  to 
prevent  sticking.  These  cakes  are  light,  and  eaten  with  a  little 
sugar  or  syrup  are  delicious. 

BRAN  CAKES. 

2.  Take  one  pint  of  bran,  pour  boiling  water  over  it  and 
let  it  stand  over  night ;  in  the  morning  add  one  egg,  a  pint  of 
sour  milk,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda  and  thicken  with  corn  meal. 
Fry  as  griddle  cakes. 

HOMINY  GRIDDLE  CAKES. 

3.  Mash  well  one  pint  of  cold  boiled  hominy,  add  one 
pint  of  sour  milk  and  one  teaspoonful  of  soda  or  sweet  milk  and 
one  egg;  thicken  with  white  or  Graham  flour. 

EARL'S  PANNIE  CAKES. 

4.  One  quart  of  sour  milk,  as  little  soda  as  possible,  thick- 
ened with  equal  quantities  of  Graham  flour,  white  flour  and  corn 
meal. 


6o  OUR   DAILY    BREAD. 


YEAST  GRIDDLE  CAKES. 

5.  Take  two  quarts  of  warm  water,  make  a  thin  batter  with 
either  Graham,  rye  or  buckwheat  flour,  add  half  a  teacupful  of 
yeast.  Let  it  set  in  a  warm  place  over  night.  In  the  morning, 
if  the  batter  is  too  thick  (as  the  flour  swells),  add  water  to  make 
it  of  the  right  consistency.  These  cakes,  we  think  more  whole- 
some than  those  made  of  sour  milk  and  soda. 

CORN  MUSH  PATTIES. 

6.  One  pint  and  a  half  of  cold  corn  mush  and  to  this  add 
half  a  teacupful  of  sweet  milk  ;  mix  well  together  and  then  stir 
in  three  tablespoonfuls  of  corn  meal  and  one  of  white  flour,  and 
drop  from  the  end  of  a  spoon  on  to  hot  greased  griddles,  putting 
some  eight  or  nine  on  at  once.  They  are  more  delicate  cooked 
in  small  cakes ;  (this  is  true  of  all  griddle  cakes.  When  well 
browned  on  one  side,  turn  as  other  cakes,  and  serve  hot. 

CORN  MEAL  GRIDDLE  CAKES. 

7.  Take  one  quart  of  sweet  milk  and  a  pint  and  a  half  of 
corn  meal,  bring  half  the  milk  to  a  boil,  and  with  it  scald  half 
the  meal,  then  add  the  cold  milk,  the  rest  of  the  meal,  and  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  white  flour,  or  an  eg5  if  you  prefer.  Bake  in 
small  thin  cakes  and  they  will  be  light  and  tender. 

WAFFLES. 

8.  To  one  pint  of  sweet  milk  add  one  pint  of  boiling  water 
and  while  warm  stir  in  Graham  flour  enough  to  make  a  thin  bat- 
ter, then  add  half  a  teacupful  of  jug  yeast  or  a  small  yeast  cake, 
and  let  it  stand  in  a  warm  place  all  night.  In  the  morning 
warm  and  grease  with  suet  your  waffle  irons,  pour  in  the  batter 
and  bake  each  side  about  two  minutes. 


HOW    TO    PREPARE    IT.  6l 


GRUELS. 


CORN  MEAL  GRUEL. 

1.  Have  the  water  boiling;  make  a  thin  batter  of  corn 
meal  and  cold  water  and  put  one  tablespoonful  of  this  batter  in 
the  boiling  water  ;  let  this  boil  up,  then  add  the  rest,  a  table- 
spoonful  at  a  time,  or  at  first,  and  let  it  boil  an  hour  or  more. 

Other  gruels  are  made  in  the  same  way,  except  rice  gruel. 

RICE  GRUEL. 

2.  Boil  a  teacupful  of  rice  in  two  quarts  of  water,  or  so 
much  water  that  a  pint  of  gruel  will  be  left  when  the  rice  is 
done.  The  thin  gruel  may  be  obtained  by  pouring  the  well 
boiled  rice  in  a  seive,  thus  straining  it.  In  some  cases  a  little, 
a  tablespoonful  or  so,  of  meat  broth  may  be  added,  and  very 
little  salt — the  less  the  better. 


MISCELLANEOUS. 


PONHAUS  OR  WINTER  MUSH  FOR  FRYING. 

I.  This  dish  should  be  used  only  in  cold  weather,  hence  we 
designate  it  as  above.  To  two  pounds  of  rough  pieces  of  lean 
beef,  or  of  scraps  you  may  have  on  hand,  put  one  gallon  of 
water  and  boil  till  the  meat  is  very  tender.  Take  it  from  the 
pot  and  chop  or  mash  find.  Strain  the  liquor  and  replace  it  in 
the  pot,  adding  the  chopped  meat,  and  seasoning  with  salt,  sage 


St  OUR    DAILY    BREAD. 

or  summer  savory,  and  garlic";  or  onions  to  taste.  Stir  in  this 
boiling  mass  enough  corn  meal  to  make  a  moderately  stiff  mush. 
Put  it  when  well  cooked  into  a  pan  to  get  cold.  Slice  neatly, 
roll  in  white  flour,  and  fry  a  delicate  brown  on  a  well  greased 
griddle. 

COTTAGE  CHEESE.  ^ 

2.  Bring  skim  milk  to  a  scald,  almost  but  not  quite  boiling,' 
Now  pour  into  this  enough  buttermilk  to  turn  the  whole  mass  to 
curds  and  whey.  (It  is  not  possible  to  give  the  exact  propor- 
tions, as  the  acid  of  the  buttermilk  varies  in  quantity  proportion- 
ate to  the  age  of  the  milk,  etc).  Now  skim  out  the  curd  and 
put  it  in  a  bag  of  thin  tough  muslin  made  for  this  purpose,  and 
let  it  drain  till  quite  dry,  then  turn  out  into  a  pan  and  with  the 
hands  Mtork  it  into  a  smooth  mass,  putting  in  a  small  piece  :of; 
butter  and  a  little  salt.  Make  into  small  balls.  This,  if  made 
just  right,  is  the  most  delicious  cottage  cheese  ever  invented. 

CREAM  CURD. 

3.  Take  "  klaughbered"  milk  and  place  it  on  a  warm,  not 
hot,  stove  until  the  curds  and  whey  separate,  then  pour  into  a 
collander  and  let  it  drain  thoroughly.  Put  this  in  a  dish  and 
pour  over  it  salted  cream,  or  cream  without  the  salt — enough  to 
cover  well  the  curd. 


BUTTER  MILK  CHEESE. 

'.4.  Put  new  buttermilk  over  a  slow  fire,  there  to  remain  un-j 
til  almost  scalding  hot,  when  the  curd  will  separate.  Pour  the; 
whole  in  a  cheese  bag  and  hang  up  to  drip.  This  should  be:wel\.. 
worked  with  the  hand,  a  little  butter  or  cream,  and  salt  ^dded.^ 
Make  into  Httle  balls  and  keep  in  a  cool  place.  ': 


HOW    TO    PREPARE    IT.  6^ 

BAKING  POWDER. 

5.  Six  ounces  of  pure  tartaric  acid,  eight  ounces  of  the  best 
baking  soda  and  one  quart  of  flour,  sift  five  or  six  times  through 
a  fine  sieve,  so  as  to  thoroughly  mix  the  ingredients.  Always 
procure  the  best  material.  Keep  tightly  corked  and  use  as  any 
other  baking  powder. 

JELLIES. 

6.  After  preparing  the  juice  take  a  pint  and  a  half  of  it  and 
boil  rapidly  for  fifteen  minutes ;  have  in  the  oven  heating  half 
a  pint  of  best  white  sugar,  add  this  to  the  boiling  juice  and  boil 
five  minutes  longer,  or  until  it  will  leave  the  spoon  ;  boiling  it 
one  minute  too  long  will  make  syrup  of  it.  If  you  like  your  jelly 
sweeter  add  a  little  more  sugar,  but  the  quantity  given  is  better, 
while  some  prefer  the  mixture  in  the  preportion  of  three  or  four 
parts  of  juice  to  one  of  sugar. 

LEMONADE. 

7.  Lemonade  must  always  be  made  from  from  peeled  lem- 
ons. To  one  lemon  take  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  mash  the 
lemon  and  sugar  well  together,  then  add  a  glass  of  water,  and, 
if  desirable,  a  piece  of  ice. 

Hot  lemonade  may  be  made  in  the  same  way,  using  boiling 
water.  Less  sugar  may  be  used  or  none  at  all,  in  making  either 
hot  or  cold  lemonade. 


_  y  t 


^         DR.    FAIRCHILD'S 

HYGEIAN  HOME 

AND  MOVEMENT  CURE. 

Corner  Broadway  and  Sixth  Street,  QUINCY,  ILL 


In    every   respect  a    First-Class    Medical    Institution,   de- 
voted to  the  treatment  and  care  of  Invalid  Women. 


ITS  FACILITIES  ARE  UNEQUALLED. 


Only  tlie  Most  Scientific,  Rational  and  Speedy  Methods  are  employed. 


1.  I  have  Steam  Propelled  Mechanical  Apparatus  in  great  variety,  for  apply- 
ing numerous  forms  of  remedial  or  medicinal  motioix,  which  cannot  be  effected  by  any 
other  means  Curative  operations  by  the  hand,  and  special  movements  also  comprise 
the  treatment  by  JNIotion, 

2.  Baths.  One  side  of  the  principal  bath-room  is  of  glass.  I  have  Full  Baths, 
Electrical,  Electro-Vapor,  Electro-Thermal,  Hot  .Air,  Vapor,  Spray,  etc.,  etc.,  besides 
every  other  essential  lor  ireatment. 

3.  During  the  twenty  years  of  my  medical  practice  I  have,  by  experience  and  ob- 
servation, become  confirmed  in  the  OfMnion  hf-ld  by  many  eminent  physicians,  both  in 
this  country  and  Europe,  that  the  best  medical  results  are  secured  where  no  large  num- 
ber of  invalids  are  congregated  at  any  one  time  in  one  infirmary  or  Cure.  Acting  upon 
this,  I  purchased  an  elegant  private  residence,  peculiarly  adapted  to  my  purpose.  It  is 
a  restful,  cheerful,  home,  for  the  small  number,  only  about  twenty  of  invalid  women 
who  can  be  received  at  any  one  time.  The  house  is  a  sub.'^.tantially  built  brick,  with  high 
ceilings,  ample  southern  piazzas,  large,  higli,  southward  sloping  grounds,  and  situated 
in  one  of  the  most  desirable  residence  portions  of  this  "  most  beautiful  city  of  the  West  " 
Opposite  is  a  grand  elm-shaded  park,  in  the  centre  of  which  stands  the  magnificent  Court 
House,  thus  affording  a  fine  architectural  as  well  as  rural  front.  Street  cars  within  one 
block.     Churches  and  places  of  amusement  in  close  proximity. 

4.  My  table  is  abundantly  supplied  with  most  carefully  prepared  and  excellent  food. 

Invalid  Women  everywhere  are  invited  to  send  for  my  illustrated  and  descriptive 
Circular.         Address, 

M.  AUGUSTA  FAIECHILD,  M.D., 

Physician  and  I*ropriet07\ 


