5^"r- 


'i~r"/,;-. 


75th  Anniversary  Edition 


*^m  i  &g§^^-,...  .  ..  >%m 


Methodist  Episcopal  Church,  Zebulon,  N.C.,  1908 


^Fhntfty 


75th  Anniversary  Edition 

1907-1982 

Zebulon  United  Methodist  Church 


CREDITS 

The  United  Methodist  Women  of  the  Zebulon  United  Methodist 
Church  acknowledge  the  many  hours  of  labor  which  have  been  given 
so  that  this  75th  anniversary  edition  of  The  Pantry  Shelf  might  be 
published.  Grateful  appreciation  is  extended  to: 

Sandra  Ward  for  setting  type; 

Fern  Grantham  for  typing  and  handling  correspondence; 

Patti  Morgan  for  designing  cover  art; 

Lori  Aills  for  providing  additional  art; 

Sarah  Eaton  for  suggesting  "kitchen  tested"  recipes  from 

the  two  earlier  editions; 
Eloise  Potter  for  proofreading  and  serving  as 

co-editor/compiler; 
Ann  Davis  for  writing  the  history  and  serving  as 

co-editor/compiler; 
MaryAnn  Powell  for  typing,  proofreading,  layout,  and  serving 

as  co-editor/compiler; 
the  hardworking  officers  of  the  UMW  for  providing  invaluable 

advice  and  assistance  in  securing  recipes; 
the  members  and  friends  of  the  UMW  for  sharing  their 

favorite  recipes  with  us. 


OFFICERS 

Zebulon  United  Methodist  Women 

1981-82 

President    Grace  Belcher 

Vice  President Emma  Bocdck 

Secretary    Mary  Lib  Privette 

Treasurer    Becky  Spivey 


CbHl-'S 


HISTORY  OF  THE  METHODIST  WOMEN 

The  influence  of  women  on  the  Zebulon  United  Methodist  Church  has  been  felt 
since  its  organization  in  1907.  The  original  100  by  200  foot  lot  at  the  corner  of  Gannon 
Avenue  and  Church  Street  was  donated  to  the  chartering  group  by  Mrs.  Martha  L. 
Horton,  widow  of  John  Wesley  Horton.  Although  the  Horton  family  had  been  Baptist  by 
tradition,  her  son,  Thomas  J.  Horton  was  the  first  member  of  the  new  congregation,  and 
had  become  a  member  of  the  Methodist  fellowship  because  of  his  Methodist  wife. 

The  Reverend  Armour  David  Wilcox  was  the  organizing  minister  of  the  new  church 
in  the  new  town  of  Zebulon  (which  was  also  chartered  in  1907)  while  serving  his  first 
ministerial  appointment  in  the  North  Carolina  Conference.  His  wife  is  remembered  as  a 
very  intelligent  and  talented  lady,  albeit  also  very  high  spirited.  She  wrote  to  a  local 
student  during  the  1960's  . . .  "When  my  husband  was  out  on  the  Circuit  I  used  to  hold 
prayer  meetings,  open  up  the  church,  build  the  fire  and  sweep  and  dust  the  church  for 
we  had  no  janitor.  I  also  sang  in  the  choirand  played  the  old  reed  organ  when  necessary. 
I  organized  our  first  missionary  society  there  at  Zebulon." 

This  original  organization  of  the  women  is  remembered  by  Mrs.  EthaColtraneasthe 
"Ladies  Aide  Society"  which  was  conducted  in  much  the  same  way  as  a  present  day 
circle.  The  members  were  responsible  for  furnishing  the  first  parsonage,  redecorating 
the  original  frame  church  sanctuary,  and  raising  funds  to  help  pay  foradditional  Sunday 
School  rooms,  which  were  built  to  the  rear  of  the  church. 

Mrs.  George  W.  Fisher,  wife  of  the  pastor  who  served  the  Zebulon  Church  from  1917 
through  1921,  officially  organized  the  Women's  Missionary  Society  in  1918.  This 
organization  was  named  the  Ida  Love  Fisher  Missionary  Society  in  her  honor  in  1923. 
Mrs.  Fisher  was  the  mother  of  eight  children,  one  of  whom,  Alma,  married  Waylon  D. 
Finch  and  made  her  home  in  Zebulon.  "Miss  Alma"  is  still  a  member  of  the  Zebulon 
United  Methodist  Church,  although  she  is  presently  living  with  her  daughter  in 
Charlotte,  N.  C. 

The  women  in  rural  Methodist  Churches  in  the  South  during  the  early  years  were 
organized  in  flexible  groups  that  could  meet  the  needs  of  their  respective  communities. 
The  Methodist  Episcopal  Church  South  had  a  Woman's  Foreign  Missionary  Society 
organized  in  1879  and  the  Woman's  Home  Missionary  Society  organized  in  1886.  These 
two  groups  were  combined  in  1911  as  the  Woman's  Missionary  Council,  which  continued 
until  1940  when  the  three  branches  of  Methodism  were  unified  and  the  women's 
organization  was  renamed  the  Woman's  Society  of  Christian  Service. 

A  book  has  been  found  depicting  Charter  Members,  which  we  believe  to  be  the  list 
of  members  who  participated  in  the  chartering  ceremony  of  the  Women's  Society  of 
Christian  Service  by  individually  signing  this  book  in  1940:  Mrs.  G.S.  Barbee,  Mrs. 
Frederick  A.  Woodcock,  Mrs.  A.R.  House,  Mrs.  B.F.  Boone  (whose  husband  was  the 
minister  from  1938-1942),  Mrs.  Foster  D.  Finch,  Mrs.  J.F.  Coltrane,  Mrs.  J. A.  Clark,  Pattie 
Clark,  Mrs.  J.H.  Ihrie,  Jr.,  Mrs.  Dewey  Massey,  Mrs.  Guy  C.  Massey,  Mrs.  R.H.  Bridgers, 
Mrs.  G.D.  Winstead,  Mrs.  J.L.  Stell,  Mrs.  A.A.  Pippin,  Miss  Oza  Blackley,  Mrs.  R.  Brantly, 
Mrs.  Mollie  Batte,  Mrs.  Chas.  E.  Flowers,  Mary  Elizabeth  Campen,  Mrs.  L.W.  Alexander, 
Mrs.  J.M.  Whitley,  Mrs.  S.G.  Flowers,  Mrs.  W.D.  Finch,  Sarah  Eaton,  Mrs.  James  Pulley, 
Mrs.  Sarah  Eaton,  Mrs.  Mary  Horner,  Mrs.  Wesley  Saunders,  Mrs.  Lucy  Mae  Curtis,  Mrs. 
W.C.  Campen,  Mrs.  M.J.  Sexton,  Mrs.  Percy  White,  Mrs.  CO.  Armstrong,  Ena  Dell 
Anderson,  Mrs.  J.E.  Carter,  Jocelyn  House,  Mrs.  Frederick  L.  Page,  Jr.,  Mrs.  Leon 
Thompson,  Mrs.  Cloid  Wade,  Mrs.  C.F.  Allen,  Mrs.  J.D.  Finch,  Mrs.  R.D.  Massey,  and 
Mrs.  F.H.  McGuire. 

The  first  edition  of  The  Pantry  Shelf  was  printed  in  1940-41  and  was  "Lovingly 
Dedicated  to  Our  Mothers  Who  First  Taught  Us  to  Cook."  The  committee  who  worked  on 
that  book  are  listed  as:  Mrs.  Ben  F.  Boone,  Mrs.  Waylon  D.  Finch,  and  Mrs.  Fred  L.  Page. 
Many  of  the  recipes  from  that  issue  are  included  in  this  current  edition.  The  second 
edition  was  published  in  1966,  edited  by  Scotte  Brown,  Mrs.  Jean  Wall,  and  Mrs.  Martha 
Brown. 

When  the  original  white  frame  structure  was  replaced  during  1948-49  with  the 
present  brick  ediface,  the  women  were  very  active  and  faithful  in  their  fund  raising  efforts 

O- 

0(7  3 

■v. 

<0 
Kj 


to  see  that  the  debt  was  retired  and  the  building  dedicated  in  1 951 .  Mr.  H.  Cloid  Wade  states 
very  emphatically  that  the  women  were  invaluable  in  obtaining  this  structure.  Records 
indicate  women  raised  $6,693.58  from  June  1949  to  May  1951  for  the  building  program. 
Many  members  remember  the  women  feeding  the  Rotary  and  Lions  Clubs  every  week  to 
raise  money.  Committees  were  organized  to  take  turns  with  the  cooking  and  serving.  Etha 
Coltrane  remembers  that  si  nee  her  turn  didn't  come  too  often  she  was  able  to  use  thesame 
menu  to  feed  the  Rotarians.  She  also  remembers  when  the  Methodist  women  from 
Zebulon  operated  a  hot  dog  booth  at  the  North  Carolina  State  Fair  in  Raleigh  to  raise 
money  for  various  projects. 

Holding  bazarrsand  luncheons  in  the  fall  have  been  an  almost  annual  project  for  the 
women.  In  the  1960's  several  members  carried  examples  of  the  bazaar  items  to  the 
Peggy  Mann  Show  on  W.T.V.D.  and  to  the  Bette  Elliott  Show  on  W.R.A.L-T.V.  The  1966 
bazaar  is  especially  remembered  for  two  reasons:  it  was  the  first  one  held  in  two  or 
three  years  and  $1 ,500  was  earned  to  help  make  final  payment  on  the  new  parsonage  on 
Glenn  Street. 

For  many  years  there  was  only  one  Circle  for  the  women  of  the  church.  A  second 
Circle  was  organized  in  1 951  and  named  the  Mercer-Sexton  Circle  for  its  founders  Mrs. 
S.E.  Mercer,  whose  husband  was  the  minister  from  1949  until  1954,  and  Mrs.  M.J. 
Sexton.  A  third  Circle  was  organized  in  the  late  1950's  and  named  the  Pearl  J.  Massey 
Circle.  These  three  Circles  continued  to  meet  for  over  a  decade  until  the  early  to  mid 
1960's  when  a  reorganization  took  place. 

Circle  One  voted  to  meet  at  three  o'clock  in  the  afternoon.  CircleTwo  was  organized 
in  1 965  and  named  the  Silver  Anniversary  Circle  because  it  was  the  25th  anniversary  of 
the  W.S.C.S.  and  would  offer  the  women  an  option  of  meeting  at  ten  o'clock  in  the 
morning.  In  the  early  1970s  Circle  Four  was  organized  by  the  young  women  of  the 
church.  These  four  Circles  constitute  the  organization  of  the  United  Methodist  Women 
on  the  75th  anniversary  of  the  church's  founding.  The  four  Circles  presently  have  a  total 
membership  of  sixty-four. 

The  year  1968  saw  the  Methodist  Church  unite  with  the  Evangelical  United 
Bretheran  Church  and  the  merger  of  our  Woman's  Society  of  Christian  Service  with  their 
Women's  Society  of  World  Service  into  the  Women's  Society  of  Christian  Service  and 
Wesleyan  Service  Guild.  In  1972  General  Conference,  at  the  request  of  local  church 
women,  changed  these  two  organizations  into  the  one  United  Methodist  Women. 

Some  of  the  women  who  have  served  as  president  of  our  various  women's 
organizations  over  the  years  are:  Mrs.  G.W.  Fisher,  Mrs.  Guy  Saunders,  Mrs.  A.A.  Pippin, 
Mrs.  G.S.  Barbee,  Mrs.  C.E.  Flowers,  Mrs.  Waylon  Finch,  Mrs.  R.E.  Kitchings,  Mrs.  M.J. 
Sexton,  Mrs.  G.L.  Richardson,  Mrs.  Albert  Pulley,  Mrs.  Frank  Wall,  Mrs.  PatO.  Farmer,  Mrs. 
U.R.  Johnson,  Mrs.  Wayne  Davis,  Miss  Mary  Saunders,  Mrs.  Douglas  Finch,  Mrs.  Robert 
Grissom,  Mrs.  Coy  Pate,  Mrs.  Reginald  Pearce,  Mrs.  G.  Christian  Jennings,  and  our 
current  president,  Mrs.  Jack  Belcher. 

Some  women  who  have  been  honored  with  Life  Memberships  in  the  Methodist 
Women's  organizations  are:  Alma  Fisher  Finch,  Laura  D.  Sexton,  Rebecca  L.  Jenkins, 
Marie  Flowers,  Maybelle  Richardson,  Etha  Coltrane,  Atherton  Kitchings,  Mary  House, 
Carolyn  Chamblee,  Bertha  P.  Alford,  Urtrice  Carter,  Alice  M.  Farmer,  Jean  F.  Wall, 
Rebecca  C.  Spivey,  Melba  P.  Andrews,  Sarah  Eaton,  Merle  Sue  Pulley,  Mary  Saunders, 
Marie  W.  Finch,  Myrtle  F.  Moser,  Eva  H.  Page,  Estelle  C.  Terry,  Margaret  H.  Finch,  Ann  V. 
Davis,  Rachael  Privette,  Kaye  Grissom,  Aldona  Pate,  Ruth  T.  Joyner,  Betsy  B.  Green, 
Eleanor  Massey,  Mable  Ihrie,  Lois  Clark,  Lillie  Alford,  Minnie  Finch,  Lalla  Pulley,  Hattie 
Pulley,  Andrea  C.  Pearce,  Undine  Wheless,  Emma  Bocock,  Jane  Jennings  and  in  1981 
our  minister  Rev.  Lovell  R.  Aills. 

Other  faithful  members  who  are  no  longer  with  us  but  are  remembered  for  their 
support:  Mrs.  George  O.  Pitts,  Mrs.  Pattie  Fuller,  Mrs.  S.W.  Harris,  Mrs.  R.  Vance  Brown, 
Mrs.  Seymour  Chamblee,  Mrs.  Cammie  Wade,  Mrs.  Paul  V.  Brantley,  Mrs.  Milton 
Strickland,  Mrs.  Nita  Wade,  Mrs.  Effie  Privette,  Mrs.  DeElla  Flowers,  Mrs.  Grace  Moser 
and  Mrs.  Lalla  Wilson. 


TABLE  OF  CONTENTS 

Appetizers  &  Condiments    7 

Beverages 19 

Breads  25 

Salads    37 

Soups  &  Stews    49 

Beef  &  Pork  Main  Dishes 55 

Poultry,  Cheese  &  Egg  Main  Dishes 67 

Seafood 79 

Vegetables    87 

Cakes 99 

Pies    117 

Desserts    1 29 

Cookies  1 37 

Candy    149 


God  bless  my  little  kitchen, 

I  love  its  every  nook; 

And  bless  me  as  I  do  my  work, 

Wash  pots  and  pans  and  cook; 

And  may  the  meals  that  I  prepare 

Be  seasoned  from  above 

With  Thy  great  blessings  and  Thy  grace, 

But  most  of  all,  Thy  love! 

— Unknown 


S  Condiments 


APPETIZERS  &  CONDIMENTS 
Index 

Fruit  Cheese  Ball  9 

Almond  Cheese  Log  9 

Cheese  Roll  or  Cheese  Ball    9 

Cheese  Rings    10 

Cheese  Salad  Biscuits    10 

Sausage  Balls  10 

Cheese  Wrapped  Mushroom  Crowns    10 

Double  Deviled  Eggs    11 

Ham  It  Up    11 

Party  Meat  Balls  11 

Sweet  and  Sour  Meatballs 11 

Chestnut  Meatballs   12 

Hot  Sweet-N-Sour  Franks  12 

Herb  Butter   12 

Dill  Dip   13 

Spicy  Curry  Dip  13 

Clam  Dip    13 

Devil  Dip 13 

Dip  for  Raw  Vegetables   13 

Shrimp  Dip    14 

West  Indies  Apple  Chutney    14 

Cranberry  Chutney   14 

Cranberry  Relish    14 

Pepper  Relish   15 

Artichoke  Pickle  15 

Kosher  Dill  Pickles    15 

Pickled  Okra   16 

Speedy  Pickled  Peaches   16 

Watermelon  Rind  Pickle 16 

Roquefort  Olives    17 

Apple  Butter    17 

Beer  Batter    17 


FRUIT  CHEESE  BALL 

(Fern  Grantham) 

1  8-ounce  package  cream  cheese,  softened 

1  4-ounce  package  Liederkranz  cheese,  softened 

3  ounces  Gruyere  cheese,  shredded 

Vz  tsp.  nutmeg 

1  cup  apples,  finely  chopped 

1  cup  dried  fruits,  finely  chopped 
(raisins,  dates,  apricots) 

2  Tbsp.  ReaLemon  juice 

1/3  cup  walnuts,  finely  chopped 
2  Tbsp.  parsley,  finely  chopped 
Melba  rounds 

Beat  cream  cheese  with  Liederkranz.  Stir  in  Gruyere  and  nutmeg.  Toss  fruits 
with  ReaLemon.  Stir  into  cheeses.  Chill.  Shape  into  ball.  Roll  in  walnuts  and 
parsley.  Store  in  refrigerator.  Allow  to  soften  to  room  temperature  before 
serving  with  Melba  rounds. 

ALMOND  CHEESE  LOG 

(Fern  Grantham) 

1  3-ounce  package  cream  cheese  1  tsp.  Worcestershire  sauce 

Vi  pound  natural  Cheddar  cheese  1  tsp.  grated  onion 

1  cup  almonds,  shelled  Dash  cayenne  pepper 

1  pimento  Paprika 

1  Tbsp.  lemon  juice  Finely  chopped  almonds 

Viz  tsp.  salt 

Put  first  4  ingredients  through  fine  bladeof  food  chopper.  Add  lemon  juice  and 
next  4  ingredients.  Mix  well.  Shape  into  2  rolls  each  about  7-inches  long.  Roll  one 
in  paprika,  the  other  in  almonds.  Wrap  in  waxed  paper.  Chill.  Serve  cut  in  thin 
slices.  Place  on  crisp  crackers. 


CHEESE  ROLL  OR  CHEESE  BALL 

(Mrs.  A.  S.  Hinton,  from  second  edition) 

Vz  lb.  sharp  Cheddar  cheese  1  Tbsp.  Worcestershire  sauce 

Vz  lb.  mild  Cheddar  cheese  1  Tbsp.  Tabasco  sauce 

3  3-oz.  pkgs.  cream  cheese  1  tsp.  powdered  garlic 

Grate  cheese  fine,  and  cream  in  rest.  Shape  into  a  roll  about  the  diameter  of  a 
Ritz  cracker,  or  shape  into  a  ball.  Roll  in  a  mixture  of  paprika  and  chili  powder. 
(Also  may  roll  in  Vz  cup  chopped  pecans.)  Chill.  Slice  and  serve  on  crackers. 


CHEESE  RINGS 

(Carol  Weeks) 

12  ounces  sharp  cheese  %  tsp.  red  pepper 

2  sticks  margarine  IV2  tsp.  salt 

3  cups  flour,  unsifted 

Cream  all  ingredients.  Press  into  rings.  Preheat  oven  to  425°  F.  Bake  on  cookie 
sheet  about  12  minutes  Makes  100  cheese  rings. 


CHEESE  SALAD  BISCUITS 

(Mrs.  E.  H.  Moser,  from  first  edition) 

1  lb.  grated  cheese  1  tsp.  salt 

V2  lb.  butter  Red  pepper  to  suit 

2  heaping  cups  plain  flour  Salted  peanuts 

Mix  all  ingredients  except  peanuts.  Form  into  rolls  about  1  inch  in  diameter. 
Wrap  in  wax  paper  and  chill  in  refrigerator  at  least  12  hours  before  using.  When 
ready  to  cook,  slice  and  press  V2  peanut  into  each  biscuit.  Watch  carefully  when 
cooking  as  the  cheese  burns  easily. 


SAUSAGE  BALLS 

(Carol  Weeks) 

1  pound  sharp  cheese 
1  pound  mild  sausage 
3  cups  Bisquick 

Mix  all  together  and  form  into  marble  size  balls.  Bake  at  325°  F  for  15  minutes. 
Can  be  frozen  and  used  later. 


CHEESE  WRAPPED  MUSHROOM  CROWNS 

(Fern  Grantham) 

1  can  (6  ounce)  mushroom  crowns  V2  cup  Cheddar  cheese,  grated 
4  Tbsp.  mushroom  broth  y2  tsp.  oregano 

2  pie  crust  sticks 

Drain  broth  from  mushrooms  and  heat.  Blot  excess  moisture  from  mushrooms 
with  paper  towels.  Mix  crumbled  pie  crust  sticks,  cheese  and  oregano  with 
fork.  Add  hot  broth.  Mix  well  until  dough  holdstogether.  Flatten  1  Tbsp.  pastry 
in  hand  and  wrap  around  mushroom,  sealing  well.  Repeat.  Dip  fingers  in  flour 
if  necessary.  Place  on  cookie  sheet  and  refrigerate  30  minutes.  Bake  in  450°  F. 
oven  for  15  minutes.  Serve  warm.  Makes  30  to  40  snacks. 


10 


DOUBLE  DEVILED  EGGS 

(Fern  Grantham) 

6  hard-cooked  eggs,  shelled  and  chilled      Va  tsp.  salt 

2  Tbsp.  canned  deviled  ham  V*  tsp.  pepper 

1/2  tsp.  chives,  snipped  1A  tsp.  lemon  rind,  grated 

2  Tbsp.  mayonnaise 

Cut  eggs  in  half  lengthwise.  Remove  yolks.  Sieve  yolks  into  a  bowl.  Stir  in 
remaining  ingredients.  Blend  well.  Mound  yolk  mixture  into  white  halves. 
Chill. 


HAM  IT  UP 

(Fern  Grantham) 

1  cup  crushed  pineapple  1A  tsp.  lemon  juice 

8  thin  slices  cooked  ham  1  cup  celery,  finely  diced 

6  ounces  cream  cheese 

Mix  cheese,  salt,  lemon  juice  and  celery.  Spread  on  ham  slices.  Heap  1  Tbsp. 
crushed  pineapple  across  the  narrow  end  of  each  ham  slice.  Roll  and  chill. 


PARTY  MEAT  BALLS 

(Judi  Corke) 

Vh  pounds  ground  meat  1A  tsp.  red  pepper 

1  can  tomato  soup  V*  tsp.  black  pepper 

1  16-ounce  can  tomato  sauce  V*  tsp.  garlic  powder 

3  Tbsp.  granulated  sugar  1A  tsp.  salt 

Va  tsp.  chili  powder 

Mix  all  ingredients  except  meat.  Bring  mixture  to  a  boil,  then  put  in  small 

meatballs  made  from  ground  meat.  Cover  and  simmer  for  V/i  hours.  Makes 

about  50.  (Can  also  use  cut  up  hot  dogs.) 


SWEET  AND  SOUR  MEATBALLS 

(Ruth  T.  Joyner) 

1  pound  lean  ground  beef  1  pint  Heinz  chili  sauce 

1  pint  grape  jelly 

Shape  1  pound  lean  ground  beef  into  very  small  balls,  no  larger  than  an  inch  in 
diameter.  Brown  in  small  amount  of  oil  in  skillet.  Mix  together  in  saucepan: 
1  pint  of  grape  jelly  and  1  pint  of  Heinz  chili  sauce.  Bring  to  a  boil  and  add  meat- 
balls. Cover  and  simmer  15  minutes.  This  can  be  served  from  a  fondue  pot  or 
from  a  crock  pot. 


li 


CHESTNUT  MEATBALLS 

(Eloise  Potter) 

2  cups  soft  bread  crumbs  1A  tsp.  onion  powder 

(21/2  slices  bread)  Va  lb.  ground  beef 

V2  cup  milk  V2  lb.  bulk  pork  sausage 

1  Tbsp.  soy  sauce  1  5  or  6-oz.  can  water  chestnuts, 
V2  tsp.  garlic  salt  drained  and  finely  chopped 

Combine  bread  crumbs,  milk,  soy  sauce,  garlic  salt,  and  onion  powder.  Add 
ground  beef,  pork  sausage  and  water  chestnuts;  mix  well.  Form  meat  mixture 
into  1-inch  balls;  place  on  151/2x101/2x1-inch  baking  pan.  Bake  in  350°  F  oven  for 
18  to  20  minutes  or  till  done.  Makes  about  5  dozen  tiny  meatballs.  Good  dipped  in 
a  tomato  sauce  or  hot-and-sweet  mustard. 


HOT  SWEET-N-SOUR  FRANKS 

(Betsy  Green) 

1  10-ounce  jar  currant  jelly  1  or  2  pounds  wieners 

1  6-ounce  jar  prepared  mustard 

Heat  jelly  and  mustard  slowly  until  dissolved.  Slice  wieners  into  %-inch  lengths. 
Add  them  to  the  sauce.  Cook  slowly  for  15  minutes.  Can  be  used  in  fondue  pot. 
Also  can  be  made  ahead  of  time,  put  in  the  refrigerator  and  used  the  next  day. 


HERB  BUTTER 

(Gladys  Baker) 

2  tsp.  parsley,  chopped  very  fine  4  tsp.  thyme,  chopped  very  fine 

4  tsp.  chives,  chopped  very  fine  1  tsp.  oregano,  chopped  very  fine 

Blend  thoroughly  with: 
Sprinkle  of  garlic  salt 
Va  lemon  (juice  and  grated  rind) 
Va  lb.  butter  or  margarine 

Measurements  are  approximate  and  may  be  varied  to  taste.  Other  herbs  may  be 
substituted  or  added.  I  like  to  add  2  tsp.  dill  and/or  2  tsp.  basil  when  available.  If 
dried  herbs  are  used,  about  half  the  amounts  given  here  should  be  enough.  Herb 
butter  should  be  stored  in  a  covered  container  in  the  refrigerator  2  or  3  days  for 
mellowing  and  blending  of  flavors.  Will  keep  (refrigerated)  for  4  to  6  months.  To 
serve,  spread  on  crisp  crackers. 


12 


DILL  DIP 

(Donna  Branoff) 


1  cup  mayonnaise 

1  cup  sour  cream 

1  package  green  onion  dip  mix 

1  Tbsp.  parsley 

Mix  well. 


1  tsp.  Worcestershire  sauce 
Vi  tsp.  Laureys  seasoned  salt 
Va  tsp.  Accent 
1  heaping  Tbsp.  dill 


SPICY  CURRY  DIP 

(Sarah  Eaton) 


2  cups  mayonnaise 

3  Tbsp.  chili  sauce 
1  Tbsp.  Worcestershire  sauce 
3  Tbsp.  curry  powder 

Combine  all  ingredients.  Chill  2  or  3  hours.  Very  good  with  raw  vegetables. 


V2  tsp.  garlic  powder 
1  small  onion,  grated 
Dash  pepper 


8  ounces  cream  cheese 
Va  cup  sour  cream 
Va  cup  mayonnaise 

Mix  well. 


CLAM  DIP 

(Donna  Branoff) 

1  clove  garlic,  crushed 
1  small  onion,  chopped 
7  ounces  clam  meat 


DEVIL  DIP 

(Judi  Corke) 

1  cup  mayonnaise 

1  cup  sour  cream 

1  can  Underwood  deviled  ham 

1  packet  dry  Good  Seasons  Italian  dressing  mix 

Blend  all  ingredients  and  serve  with  raw  vegetables  (broccoli,  carrots,  mush- 
rooms, green  peppers,  cauliflower,  celery,  etc.) 


DIP  FOR  RAW  VEGETABLES 

(Celia  Hales) 


1  cup  mayonnaise 
1  tsp.  ginger 
1  tsp.  vinegar 


3  tsp.  soy  sauce 

2  Tbsp.  milk 

2  Tbsp.  minced  dried  onion 


Mix  all  ingredients  together  24  hours  ahead  of  time.  Good  with  raw  broccoli, 
cauliflower,  squash,  celery,  carrots,  etc. 


13 


SHRIMP  DIP 

(Rom  Moser) 

1  8-oz.  pkg.  cream  cheese  1  lb.  peeled,  cooked,  deveined  and 
%  cup  mayonnaise  or  chopped  shrimp 

salad  dressing  Salt  to  taste 

3  Tbsp.  catsup  1  stalk  of  celery,  chopped  fine 

Juice  of  1  lemon  1  medium  onion,  chopped  fine 

Combine  cream  cheese,  mayonnaise,  catsup  and  lemon  juice;  mix  until  creamy. 
Stir  in  remaining  ingredients  and  refrigerate  overnight.  Yields  4  cups. 

WEST  INDIES  APPLE  CHUTNEY 

(Crystal  Horsley) 

1  can  (20  oz.)  sliced  apples  Va  tsp.  salt 

V2  cup  raisins  1  tsp.  dry  mustard 

%  cup  molasses  1  Tbsp.  curry  powder 
Va  cup  vinegar 

Mix  all  ingredients  in  saucepan.  Bring  to  boil,  stirring.  Simmer,  uncovered,  15 
minutes.  Store  tightly  covered  in  refrigerator.  Makes  3  cups. 


CRANBERRY  CHUTNEY 

(Margaret  Finch) 

1  16-oz.  pkg.  cranberries  1  cup  chopped  celery 

1  cup  boiling  water  1  medium  apple,  chopped 

2  cups  sugar  1  Tbsp.  orange  peel 
1  cup  orange  juice  1  tsp.  ground  ginger 
1  cup  white  raisins 

Put  cranberries  and  sugar  in  water.  Bring  to  a  boil.  Reduce  heat  and  simmer  15 
minutes.  Stir.  Remove  from  heat  and  add  remaining  ingredients.  Cover  and 
refrigerate. 

CRANBERRY  RELISH 

(Carol  Weeks) 

1  pound  raw  cranberries 

2  oranges,  seeds  removed  and  peeled 
2  cups  sugar  (more  if  desired) 

2  cups  pecans,  coarsely  chopped 

Grind  cranberries  and  oranges  together.  Add  sugar  and  nuts.  Mix  well.  Store 
covered  in  refrigerator.  Good  with  meats. 


14 


PEPPER  RELISH 

(Etha  Coltrane) 

2  dozen  green  sweet  peppers  3  medium  onions 

(or  1  gallon)  2  cups  sugar 

2  red  peppers  (hot)  1  quart  vinegar 

Chop  vegetables  and  add  remaining  ingredients.  Boil  for  V/2  hours. 


ARTICHOKE  PICKLE 

(Margaret  Finch) 

1  peck  artichokes  1  box  dry  mustard  (small  box) 

5  lbs.  sugar  1  Tbsp.  tumeric 

3  lbs.  sliced  onions  2  pods  red  pepper 
1  gallon  vinegar 

Boil  vinegar  and  seasonings  together  for  ten  minutes.  Remove  from  heat  and 
add  tumeric.  Pack  artichokes  and  onions  in  jars  in  alternate  layers.  Pour  in  liquid 
and  seal. 


KOSHER  DILL  PICKLES 

(Georgie  Carmichael) 

Cucumbers  1  tsp.  dill  seed  per  jar 

2  cups  Mrs.  Lee's  pickling  lime  1  tsp.  dill  weed  per  jar 

2  gallons  water  2  or  3  slices  fresh  garlic  per  jar 
Ice  water  1  or  2  pieces  hot  red  pepper 

3  pints  distilled  vinegar  (or  1A  tsp.  crushed  red  pepper)  per  jar 
IV2  cups  salt  (plain  free-running  salt)  1  grape  leaf  per  jar 

4V2  quarts  water 

Wash  desired  amount  of  cucumbers  and  drain.  Mix  2  cups  pickling  lime  to  2 
gal.  water.  Follow  soaking  method  directions  on  package.  Be  sure  to  cover 
pickles  while  soaking.  Stir  occasionally.  Let  stand  24  hours.  Drain.  Rinse  2  or  3 
times.  Soak  in  ice  water  for  3  or  4  hours.  Bring  to  boil  vinegar,  salt,  and  41/2  quarts 
water.  Pack  pickles  in  jars  and  pour  vinegar  mixture  over.  Add  dill  seed,  dill 
weed,  garlic  and  hot  pepper.  Put  grape  leaf  on  top  (optional).  Seal  jars  and 
process  in  hot  water  bath  for  10  minutes.  Let  stand  2  or  3  weeks.  Store  in  cool, 
dark  place. 


15 


PICKLED  OKRA 

(Margaret  Finch) 

4  cups  vinegar  V2  cup  salt 

1  cup  water  V2  cup  to  1  cup  sugar 

Bring  the  above  ingredients  to  a  boil.  Pack  okra  that  has  been  washed  and  stems 
clipped  a  little  in  pint  jars  (packing  them  lengthwise).  Add  two  cloves  of  garlic,  1 
or  2  small  hot  peppers(green)and  1  tsp.  dill  seed.  Pour  hot  liquid  over  okra  and 
seal.  Do  not  eat  pickle  for  4  to  5  weeks  and  chill  before  eating. 


SPEEDY  PICKLED  PEACHES 

(Jean  Wall) 

1  29-ounce  can  peach  halves  1  short  cinnamon  stick 

V2  cup  sugar  Whole  cloves 

V2  cup  vinegar 

Drain  peach  halves,  reserving  1  cup  syrup.  In  medium  saucepan  combine 
reserved  syrup,  sugar,  vinegar  and  cinnamon  stick.  Stud  each  peach  half  with 
3  or  4  cloves.  Add  to  mixture.  Over  medium  heat,  bring  to  boil.  Reduce  heat  to 
low  and  simmer  3  or  4  minutes.  Cover  and  refrigerate. 


WATERMELON  RIND  PICKLE 

(Mrs.  C.  L.  Read,  from  first  edition) 

10  pounds  water  melon  rind  V2  box  whole  cloves 

8V2  pounds  sugar  V2  box  allspice 

3V2  pints  vinegar  Lime  water 

Mix  1  cup  lime  in  one  gallon  water.  Pour  over  rinds  in  large  enameled  or  plastic 
pan.  Add  enough  water  to  cover.  Soak  overnight.  Next  morning  rinse  toroughly 
through  4  waters.  Boil  20  minutes  in  strong  salt  water  (2  Tbsp.  salt/1  quart 
water).  Rinse  thoroughly  in  cold  water  3  times.  Boil  20  minutes  in  clear  water. 
Drain  water  off.  Make  syrup  of  sugar  and  vinegar  with  spices  tied  in  cheese  cloth 
and  bring  to  boil.  Add  rinds.  Cook  at  a  slow  boil  for  1  to  Vh  hours,  or  until  rind 
looks  clear.  Pack  in  hot  jars.  Pour  hot  syrup  in  jars  and  seal  immediately.  The 
State  Extension  Service  recommends  that  you  put  jars  in  a  hot  water  bath  for  5 
minutes  after  sealing. 

NOTE:  Instructions  updated  from  first  edition  for  clarity. 

16 


ROQUEFORT  OLIVES 

(Fern  Grantham) 

20  large  stuffed  olives 

1  5-ounce  jar  blue-cheese  spread 

1  cup  walnuts,  chopped 

V*  tsp.  salt 

Drain  olives  and  dry  on  paper  towels.  Turn  cheese  into  bowl  and  roll  olives 
around  in  cheese  using  a  knife  to  get  them  well  coated.  Drop  olives  into 
chopped  walnuts  mixed  with  salt.  Coat  all  sides  well.  Lift  out.  Shape  into  round 
balls.  Chill. 


APPLE  BUTTER 

(Shirley  Frye) 

12  lbs.  apples  1  tsp.  cloves 

6  lbs.  sugar  1  cup  vinegar 

4  tsp.  cinnamon 

Cook  apples  with  enough  water  until  soft.  Add  spices  and  cook  until  thick. 
(NOTE:  2  cups  =  1  pound) 


BEER  BATTER 

(Donna  Branoff) 

V*  cup  flour  2  egg  yolks 

V*  cup  cornstarch  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

V«  cup  warm  beer  2  egg  whites,  beaten  lightly  with  fork 

1  tsp.  cooking  oil 

Blend  flour  and  cornstarch.  Add  beer,  oil,  egg  yolks  and  salt  and  pepper,  mixing 
well.  Just  before  you  use  batter  add  the  2  egg  whites  which  have  been  beaten 
lightly.  Dip  selected  food  in  batter  and  deep  fry.  May  be  used  for  deep  frying  all 
vegetables,  onion  rings,  fish,  etc. 


17 


"God  is  a  God  of  laughter, 

as  well  as  of  prayer . . . 

If  your  God  does  not  enter  your  kitchen 

there  is  something  the  matter  with  your  kitchen. 
If  you  can't  take  God  into  your  recreation 

there  is  something  wrong  with  the  way  you  play. 
If  God,  for  you,  does  not  smile, 

there  is  something  wrong  with  your  idea  of  God." 

—From  a  sermon  by  Peter  Marshall 


18 


^Bei/e/tages 


19 


BEVERAGES 
Index 

Boiled  Custard   21 

Boiled  Custard  (Egg  Nog) 21 

Cocoa   21 

Mulled  Cider   21 

Hot  Cranberry  Punch  22 

Cranberry  Punch   22 

Fruit  Punch    22 

Lime-Pineapple  Punch  22 

Spiced  Iced  Tea  23 

Tea  Punch    23 

Russian  Tea 23 

Russian  Tea  (Instant)    23 

Banana  Punch    24 

Mint  Ice  Cubes  24 


20 


BOILED  CUSTARD 

(Jean  Wall) 

1  quart  milk  2  Tbsp.  flour,  plain 

3  eggs  1  tsp.  vanilla 

1  cup  sugar  Pinch  of  salt 

Scald  milk.  Beat  eggs.  Add  sugar  which  has  been  mixed  with  flour  to  the  eggs. 
Add  salt.  Pour  milk  gradually,  stirring  constantly,  into  egg  mixture.  Place  in  top 
of  double  boiler  and  cook  until  mixture  coats  a  spoon.  Cool.  Add  vanilla. 
Refrigerate. 

BOILED  CUSTARD  (EGG  NOG) 

(Mrs.  Nolle  Whitley) 

1  Tbsp.  plain  flour  1  qt.  (4  cups)  milk 

%  cup  sugar  4  eggs  separated,  whites  well  beaten 

Mix  flour  and  sugar  in  saucepan  until  all  lumps  of  flour  disappear.  Add  milk. 
Cook  over  low  to  medium  heat  until  slightly  thickened.  Add  some  hot  milk 
mixture  to  beaten  egg  yolks.  Return  all  of  egg  yolks  to  milk  mixture.  Cook  until 
thickened.  Add  beaten  egg  whites,  slowly  folding  into  milk  mixture.  Refrigerate 
until  serving.  Sprinkle  with  nutmeg  in  glasses. 

Note:  Stir  while  cooking  milk  mixture.  DO  NOT  BOIL  MILK  MIXTURE! 


COCOA 

(Eva  Harris  Page,  from  first  edition) 

1Va  Tbsp.  cocoa  3  cups  milk 

2  Tbsp.  sugar  Few  grains  salt 

1  cup  boiling  water 

Mix  cocoa  and  sugar  thoroughly.  Add  boiling  water  and  allow  to  boil  until  dark 
and  shiny.  Add  milk,  stir  until  well  mixed.  Bring  quickly  to  the  boiling  point. 
Beat  with  Dover  egg  beater  to  prevent  formation  of  scum. 


MULLED  CIDER 

(Susie  Roberson) 

Va  cup  brown  sugar  1  tsp.  whole  cloves 

V*  tsp.  salt  3-inch  stick  cinnamon 

2  quarts  cider  Dash  nutmeg 
1  tsp.  whole  allspice 

Combine  sugar,  salt  and  cider.  Tie  spices  in  cheese-cloth  and  add  to  cider. 
Slowly  bring  to  boil,  cover  and  simmer  20  minutes.  Remove  spices. 


21 


HOT  CRANBERRY  PUNCH 

(Fern  Grantham) 

4  cans  jellied  cranberry  sauce  1  tsp.  cinnamon 

6  cups  cold  water  1  tsp.  ground  cloves 

IV2  cups  brown  sugar  1  quart  cider 

2  cups  water  1  package  red  hots 
V2  tsp.  allspice 

Beat  first  two  ingredients  together.  Let  next  five  ingredients  come  to  a  boil. 
Add  the  cranberry  mixture  to  the  sugar  mixture,  then  the  cider,  finally  the  red 
hots. 


CRANBERRY  PUNCH 

(Mrs.  A.  S.  Hinton,  from  second  edition) 

4  cups  cranberry  juice  1  Tbsp.  almond  extract 

IV2  cups  sugar  2  quarts  gingerale 

4  cups  pineapple  juice 

Combine  first  4  ingredients.  When  ready  to  serve,  add  gingerale.  About  30 
servings. 


FRUIT  PUNCH 

(Ivey  Wood) 

3  cups  sugar  1  quart  grape  juice 

3  quarts  water  1  small  can  crushed  pineapple 

1  cup  strong  tea  2  quarts  gingerale 

12  lemons  Ice 

12  oranges 

Boil  sugar  and  water  together  for  8  minutes.  Add  tea,  chill.  Add  fruit  juices  and 
pineapple.  Mellow  in  refrigerator  2  hours.  Add  2  quarts  of  gingerale  and  ice  just 
before  serving.  Serves  50. 


LIME-PINEAPPLE  PUNCH 

(Andrea  Pearce) 

4V2  cups  sugar 

4V2  quarts  water 

3  packages  lime  Koolaide 

1  can  pineapple  juice 

1  quart  punch  to  1  bottle  gingerale. 


22 


SPICED  ICED  TEA 

(Barbara  Ail  Is) 

4  cups  boiling  water  8  cloves 

4  teabags  5  Tbsp.  sugar 

Vz  tsp.  nutmeg  V*  cup  lemon  juice 

2  sticks  cinnamon  3  Tbsp.  orange  juice 

1  orange  slice 

Pour  boiling  water  over  teabags,  nutmeg,  stick  cinnamon,  1  orange  slice  stuck 
with  8  cloves  and  sugar.  Cover,  cool  and  strain.  Chill.  Stir  in  lemon  juice  and 
orange  juice.  Serve  over  ice  cubes,  garnish  with  cinnamon  sticks  and  orange 
slices  stuck  with  cloves.  Makes  1  quart. 

TEA  PUNCH 

(Cat hey  Terry) 

3  quarts  water  1  quart  7-Up  or  gingerale 

2  family-size  tea  bags  1  12-ounce  can  frozen  lemonade 
Vi  cup  sugar 

Boil  water,  add  tea  bags.  Let  cool  (very  important).  Steep  to  medium  strength. 
Add  sugar,  7-Up  and  undiluted  lemonade  concentrate.  Stir  and  serve  over  ice 
like  regular  iced  tea.  Garnish  with  mint  leaves. 


RUSSIAN  TEA 

(Mrs.  R.  H.  Herring,  from  first  edition) 

Make  2  gallons  tea  in  the  usual  way.  Sweeten  to  taste.  Add  the  strained  juice  of 
1  dozen  oranges  and  1  dozen  lemons.  Tie  1  tablespoon  cinnamon  bark  in  athin 
cloth.  Boil  all  together  5  minutes.  Serve  hot,  putting  two  cloves  in  each  cup. 


RUSSIAN  TEA  (INSTANT) 

(Grace  Belcher) 

3  cups  sugar 

2  cups  orange-flavored  instant  breakfast  drink  (Tang) 

1  cup  instant  tea 

1  tsp.  cloves 

1  tsp.  cinnamon 

In  medium  bowl  combine  all  ingredients;  mix  well.  Place  2  rounded  table- 
spoons of  mix  in  each  cup.  Fill  with  boiling  water  and  stir  well.  Dry  mix  can  be 
kept  covered  in  storage  container.  Makes  32  servings.  (I  usually  use  2  heaping 
teaspoons  per  cup.  It  depends  on  how  strong  you  like  your  tea.) 


23 


BANANA  PUNCH 

(Jane  Fowler) 

5  lbs.  sugar  15  bananas,  grated  then 

10  cups  water  mixed  In  mixer 

2  cans  frozen  Minute  Maid  2  large  cans  pineapple  juice  or 

unsweetened  lemon  juice  OR  pineapple  grapefruit  Juice 

4  oz.  bottle  Rea  Lemon  Food  coloring  If  desired 
2  qt.  fresh  orange  Juice  OR  2  large 
cans  frozen  orange  Juice 

Boil  sugar  and  water  together,  then  cool.  Add  remaining  ingredients  and  freeze. 
Then  mix  with  equal  parts  of  ginger  ale.  Makes  9  to  10  quarts. 


MINT  ICE  CUBES 

IV2  cups  picked  mint  leaves 
2  cups  water 

Bruise  mint  leaves  and  place  in  medium  pan.  Cover  with  water  and  bring  to 
boil.  Remove  from  heat  and  let  stand  15  minutes.  Strain  and  pour  into  ice  cube 
trays  and  freeze.  Great  with  iced  tea. 


24 


^6/teacfe 


25 


BREADS 
Index 

Old  Fashioned  Brown  Bread    27 

Beer  Bread 27 

Beer  Bread  (Sweet)  27 

Super  Yeast  Bread  27 

Cheese  Caraway  Bread    28 

Lettuce  Nut  Bread   28 

Maple  Apple  Bread    28 

Pumpkin  Nut  Bread 29 

Pumpkin  Bread  29 

Zucchini  Bread  29 

Swedish  Limpa  Rye  Bread    30 

Long-Lasting  Bran  Muffins   30 

Southern  Spoon  Bread    30 

Old  Fashioned  Corn  Bread  31 

Quick  and  Easy  Hush  Puppies    31 

Quick  and  Easy  Hush  Puppies    31 

Hush  Puppies    31 

Angel  Flake  Biscuits   31 

Drop  Biscuits    32 

Biscuit  Mix  32 

Quick  Rolls    32 

Refrigerator  Rolls 32 

Whole  Wheat  Rolls    33 

Kolatchen  33 

Hot  Cross  Buns    33 

Stollen— German  Christmas  Bread  34 

Potato  Donuts 34 

Herman:  Starter  and  Coffeecake  35 


26 


OLD  FASHIONED  BROWN  BREAD 

(Donna  Branoff) 

2  cups  graham  or  whole  wheat  flour         2  cups  buttermilk 
Vi  cup  all  purpose  flour  V2  cup  molasses 

2  tsp.  baking  soda  1  cup  raisins 

1  tsp.  salt 

Combine  all  ingredients,  mix  well.  Spoon  into  two  well  greased  1  pound  coffee 
cans.  Let  stand  Vi  hour.  Bake  at  350° F.  for  45  to  50  minutes. 

BEER  BREAD 

(Donna  Branoff) 

3  cups  self-rising  flour 

2  Tbsp.  sugar 

1  12-ounce  can  beer 

Mix  together  and  put  in  greased  loaf  pan  and  bake  50  minutes  at  350° F. 

BEER  BREAD  (SWEET) 

(Debbie  Beavers) 

1  can  beer 

3  cups  self-rising  flour 
Va  to  %  cup  sugar 

Mix  ingredients  together.  Pour  in  greased  or  Pam'd  loaf  pan.  Bake  at  350°  F  for 
30  minutes  or  until  brown  and  crusty  on  top.  Rub  butter  on  top  when  you 
remove  from  oven. 


SUPER  YEAST  BREAD 

(Mrs.  T.  T.  Brown) 

2V2  cups  warm  water  (almost  hot)  2  packages  dry  yeast 

1  Tbsp.  salt  %  cup  dry  milk  (powdered) 

3  Tbsp.  sugar  (or  more)  6V2  cups  plain  flour 

\U  cup  shortening 

Mix  first  5  ingredients.  Cover  tightly  and  set  aside.  Measuretogetherflourand 
powdered  milk.  Add  to  yeast  mixture.  Mix  until  blended.  Turn  on  floured  board 
and  knead  5  to  10  minutes.  Place  in  greased  warm  bowl.  Cover  with  cloth.  Put 
in  warm  place  and  let  rise  until  double  in  size.  Punch  down  and  let  rise  again  for 
about  15  minutes.  Turn  out  on  floured  board  and  knead.  Divide  into  2  loaves 
and  place  in  greased  loaf  pans.  Let  rise  in  warm  place  until  double  in  bulk. 
Bake  in  375° F  oven  about  25-30  minutes. 


27 


CHEESE  CARAWAY  BREAD 

(Grace  Shields) 

1  cup  hot  water  1  tsp.  sugar 

V*  cup  sugar  1  egg,  well  beaten 

V/2  tsp.  salt  2  cups  sharp  cheese,  shredded 

2  packages  dry  yeast  2  Tbsp.  caraway  seeds 
Va  cup  warm  water  3V2  to  4  cups  flour 

Combine  1  cup  hot  water  with  sugar  and  salt.  Cool  to  lukewarm.  Soften  yeast 
in  1/4  cup  warm  water.  Stir  in  1  tsp.  sugar.  Combine  hot  water  mixture  and 
yeast.  Add  egg,  cheese,  caraway  seeds  and  flour.  Mix  in  flour  and  knead  about 
5  minutes.  Put  in  greased  bowl  and  let  rise  VA  to  V/2  hours.  Punch  down.  Divide 
dough  in  half.  Put  on  floured  surface  and  let  rest  10  minutes.  Put  in  2  greased 
loaf  pans  and  let  rise  45  minutes.  Bake  in  pre-heated  350° F  oven  for  40-45 
minutes. 

(After  about  20  minutes  if  bread  appears  to  be  getting  too  dark  on  top,  put  foil 
loosely  over  bread  while  baking.) 


LETTUCE  NUT  BREAD 

(Fern  Grantham) 

1  cup  sugar  2  tsp.  baking  powder 

V2  cup  corn  oil  V2  tsp.  baking  soda 

IV2  tsp.  lemon  rind,  grated  %  tsp.  salt 

IV2  cup  flour  Ve  tsp.  ground  mace 

1  cup  lettuce,  finely  chopped  Vs  tsp.  ginger 

2  eggs  V2  cup  chopped  almonds 

Grease  loaf  pan.  Combine  sugar,  oil  and  rind.  Mix  in  sifted  dry  ingredients  and 
lettuce.  Add  eggs  one  at  a  time,  beating  well.  Stir  in  nuts.  Spread  batter  in  pan 
and  bake  at  350°  F  for  55-60  minutes.  Slice  and  spread  with  cream  cheese. 


MAPLE  APPLE  BREAD 

(Fern  Grantham) 

2  packages  crescent  rolls  1  tsp.  cinnamon 

Vi  cup  apples,  finely  chopped  3  Tbsp.  maple  syrup 

%  cup  chopped  nuts  1  egg  white,  stiffly  beaten 

Grease  loaf  pan.  Combine  apples,  nuts,  syrup  and  cinnamon.  Fold  in  egg 
white.  Unroll  crescent  rolls  and  separate  into  8  triangles.  Spread  with  mixture 
and  roll  up  starting  with  narrow  end.  Place  lengthwise  in  pan  making  2  layers. 
Bake  at  375°  F  for  15  minutes.  Cover  with  foil  and  bake  20  minutes  longer.  Cool 
in  pan  5  minutes.  Glaze  and  garnish  with  candied  fruit. 


28 


PUMPKIN  NUT  BREAD 

(Grace  Belcher) 

3V2  cups  all-purpose  flour,  unsifted  2  2/3  cups  sugar 

2  tsp.  baking  soda  1  cup  oil 
1  tsp.  cinnamon                                         4  eggs 

1  tsp.  salt  V2  cup  water 

V2  tsp.  double  acting  baking  powder         1  can  (16  oz.)  pumpkin 

72  tsp.  allspice  V2  cup  pecans  or  walnuts,  chopped 

Preheat  oven  to  350° F.  Grease  two  9  x  5-inch  loaf  pans.  Set  aside.  Combine 
flour  and  next  5  ingredients.  Set  aside.  In  a  large  mixing  bowl  beat  sugar  and 
oil.  Add  eggs,  water  and  pumpkin.  Beat  well.  Gradually  add  dry  ingredients 
and  stir  until  blended.  Stir  in  nuts.  Pour  into  greased  pans.  Bake  for  55  to  60 
minutes  or  until  toothpick  comes  out  clean.  Remove  from  oven  to  wire  rack. 
Cool  10  minutes.  Makes  2  loaves  or  36  half-inch  slices,  about  180  calories 
each.  Freezes  well. 

PUMPKIN  BREAD 

(Jim  Powell) 

3  cups  sugar  %  tsp.  nutmeg 

4  eggs  V2  tsp.  allspice 
1  cup  salad  oil                                          2  tsp.  soda 

1  Tbsp.  butter  2/3  cup  water 

2  cups  pumpkin  1  Tbsp.  orange  rind 
3V2  cups  flour  1  cup  nuts 

IV2  tsp.  salt  (walnuts  or  pecans) 

Preheat  oven  to  350°  F.  Blend  together  sugar  and  eggs.  Add  oil  and  butter  and 
pumpkin.  Sift  together  dry  ingredients.  Add  alternately  with  water.  Add  orange 
rind  and  nuts.  Butter  and  flour  2  bread  loaf  pans.  Bake  for  45-60  minutes. 

ZUCCHINI  BREAD 

(Fern  Grantham) 

3  eggs  1  tsp.  baking  soda 

1  cup  oil  3  tsp.  cinnamon 

2  cups  sugar  V*  tsp.  baking  powder 

3  tsp.  vanilla  V2  cup  nuts,  chopped 

3  cups  flour  2  cups  zucchini,  grated 

1  tsp.  salt 

Beat  together  eggs,  oil,  sugar,  vanilla.  Sift  together  flour,  salt,  baking  soda, 
cinnamon,  baking  powder.  Add  flour  mixture  to  egg  mixture.  Fold  in  nuts  and 
zucchini.  Bake  1  hour  at  325°  F  in  2  greased  loaf  pans.  If  using  6small  pans,  bake 
for  45  minutes. 


29 


SWEDISH  LIMPA  RYE  BREAD 

(Emma  Bocock) 

IV2  cups  warm  water  (not  hot)  1  tsp.  salt 

2  packages  active  dry  yeast  2  Tbsp.  soft  shortening 

1A  cup  molasses  2V2  cups  rye  flour 

1/3  cup  sugar  2V2  to  3  cups  white  flour 

Dissolve  yeast  in  water.  Add  molasses,  half  the  flours,  sugar,  salt  and 
shortening.  Beat  with  spoon  until  smooth.  Using  your  hand,  mix  in  enough 
remaining  flour  until  dough  leaves  the  bowl.  Cover  and  let  rise  10  to  15 
minutes.  Knead  again  and  grease  bowl  and  let  rise  in  warm  place  (85°  F)  until 
double,  about  1  hour.  Punch  down.  Let  rise  again  about  30  minutes.  Shape  into 
2  round  loaves  or  put  in  baking  pans  that  have  been  greased.  Let  rise  until  light. 
Bake  in  375°  F  oven  for  30-35  minutes. 

Finely  grated  rind  of  1  to  2  oranges  may  be  added  if  you  like  the  flavor. 


LONG-LASTING  BRAN  MUFFINS 

(Mary  Lib  Privette) 

1  cup  Crisco  IV2  tsp.  salt 

2Va  cups  sugar  1  quart  buttermilk 

4  eggs  4  cups  All  Bran 

5  cups  all-purpose  flour  2  cups  100%  Bran 
5  tsp.  soda 

Cream  Crisco  and  sugar.  Add  eggs  and  mix  well.  Add  flour,  soda-and  salt  and 
mix  well.  Add  buttermilk  and  All  Bran.  Fold  in  100%  Bran.  Store  in  refrigerator 
in  air-tight  container.  Fill  greased  muffin  tins  2/3  full.  Bake  at  375°  F  for  10-15 
minutes.  Will  keep  for  weeks  in  refrigerator. 


SOUTHERN  SPOON  BREAD 

(Mrs.  Waylon  D.  Finch,  from  first  edition) 

2V2  cups  boiling  water  1  Tbsp.  lard,  melted 

2  cups  meal  1  tsp.  soda 

2  cups  sour  milk  2  eggs 

Add  meal  to  boiling  water  and  stir.  Let  cool.  Add  beaten  egg  yolks.  Add  milk, 
soda,  lard.  Beat  and  add  beaten  egg  whites.  Bake  in  greased  pan  about  40 
minutes. 


30 


OLD  FASHIONED  CORN  BREAD 

(Ann  Davis) 

1  cup  cornmeal  1  Tbsp.  sugar 

Vi  tsp.  soda  1  cup  buttermilk 

%  tsp.  salt  1  egg 

1  tsp.  baking  powder  1  Tbsp.  melted  fat 

Preheat  oven  to  425°to  450°  F.  Place  greased  iron  skillet  in  hot  oven.  Mix  dry 
ingredients;  add  buttermilk  and  egg.  Add  fat;  pour  into  heated  skillet.  Bake  for 
about  20  minutes.  May  be  baked  in  iron  muffin  pans.  Yield:  5-6  servings  of  two 
sticks. 


QUICK  AND  EASY  HUSH  PUPPIES 

(Wilma  Strickland) 

Mix  equal  parts  of  self-rising  corn  meal  and  self-rising  flour  until  well  blended. 
Add  enough  water  to  have  batter  that  will  drop  in  mounds  into  hot  deep  fat  or  oil. 
When  browned  on  both  sides  remove  from  grease.  These  are  very  light  and 
fluffy. 


HUSH  PUPPIES 

(Anna  Sutton,  Becky  Spivey) 

1  cup  corn  meal  1  egg 

1  Tbsp.  (heaping)  flour  1  tsp.  baking  powder 

1  tsp.  sugar  Onion  (optional) 

1  tsp.  salt  Milk 

Mix  above.  Don't  make  too  stiff.  Allow  to  roll  off  spoon  without  having  to  shake. 
Fry  in  deep  fat  until  golden  brown. 


ANGEL  FLAKE  BISCUITS 

(Andrea  Pearce) 

5  cups  self-rising  flour  .  1  package  yeast 

Va  cup  sugar  2  Tbsp.  warm  water 

%  cup  shortening  2  cups  buttermilk 

Mix  flour  and  sugar.  Cut  in  shortening.  Dissolve  yeast  in  warm  water  and  add 
to  buttermilk.  Then  add  to  flour  mixture.  Knead.  Make  into  biscuits.  Bake  for  15 
minutes  at  400° -425° F.  Store  dough  in  refrigerator. 


31 


DROP  BISCUITS 

(Eloise  Potter) 

2  cups  self-rising  flour  2/3  -  3/4  cup  buttermilk 

Vz  cup  lard  (shortening) 

Sift  flour  into  bowl;  cut  in  shortening;  stir  in  buttermilk.  Drop  by  heaping  table- 
spoonfuls  on  ungreased  baking  sheet.  Bake  10-12  minutes  at  450° F.  Makes  12 
large  biscuits. 

BISCUIT  MIX 

(Pat  C.  Davis) 

8  cups  self-rising  flour  1  cup  solid  shortening 

1  1/3  cup  dry  milk 

Mix  with  hands.  Keep  at  room  temperature.  When  biscuits  are  needed,  mix  with 
water  to  desired  consistency.  Shape  into  biscuits  and  bake  at  450° F  for  8-10 
minutes  or  until  done. 


QUICK  ROLLS 

(Rochelle  Strowd) 

V2  cup  Crisco  Va  cup  water,  boiling 

Vi  cup  sugar 

Mix  ingredients  and  let  cool.  When  cooled,  add  Va  cup  lukewarm  water  mixed 
with  1  package  of  yeast.  Add  1  egg,  31/2cups  plain  flour  sifted  with  1/2tsp.  salt.  Mix 
and  store  in  refrigerator  covered  with  cloth  until  ready  to  use.  Knead  and  roll  or 
shape.  Let  rise  1  hour  in  warm  place.  Bake  in  425°  F  oven  until  done. 

REFRIGERATOR  ROLLS 

(Ruth  Harrell,  Gladys  Hinton) 

2  packages  yeast  2  cups  mashed  potatoes 
1  cup  lukewarm  water  2  cups  potato  water 

1  1/3  cup  Crisco  3  eggs 

IV2  cups  sugar  4  pounds  (or  more)  plain  flour 

3  tsp.  salt 

Dissolve  yeast  in  lukewarm  water.  Put  Crisco,  sugar,  salt  and  mashed  potatoes 
into  hot  potato  water.  When  cold,  add  yeast  and  beaten  eggs.  Sift  in  enough 
flour  to  make  a  stiff  dough.  Turn  out  on  floured  board  and  knead  well.  Put  in 
greased  bowl  and  grease  top  lightly.  Cover  and  let  rise  once  or  twice.  Place  in 
refrigerator  until  ready  to  use.  Form  in  desired  shape  3  hours  before  baking. 
Bake  at  375°  for  20  minutes.  Keeps  a  week  or  more. 


32 


WHOLE  WHEAT  ROLLS 

(Mrs.  Waylon  D.  Finch,  from  first  edition) 

1  cake  yeast  6  cups  graham  flour,  sifted 

1  Tbsp.  salt  3  Tbsp.  lard,  rounded 

2  Tbsp.  sugar  3  cups  sweet  milk 

6  cups  white  flour,  sifted  1  cup  white  potatoes,  mashed 

Have  milk  lukewarm.  Add  potatoes  and  push  through  a  sieve.  Add  salt,  sugar 
and  yeast  which  has  been  dissolved  in  V6  cup  warm  milk  or  V2  cup  warm  water. 
Work  the  lard  into  the  mixture  of  flour,  then  pour  in  liquid  and  work  to  a  smooth 
dough.  Knead  until  smooth  and  will  not  stick  to  board.  Put  into  a  greased  bowl 
and  let  rise  until  double  in  bulk.  Roll  and  cut  as  Parker  House  rolls.  Let  rise 
again  and  bake  in  hot  oven. 

KOLATCHEN 

(Ruth  MacDonald) 

1  cup  hot  milk  1  egg,  well  beaten 

1/3  cup  butter  or  other  fat  2%  cups  flour,  sifted 

1/»  cup  sugar  Prunes  (or  jelly) 

V2  tsp.  salt 

%  yeast  cake  dissolved  in 
1A  cup  lukewarm  milk 

Add  butter,  sugar  and  salt  to  milk;  when  lukewarm,  add  dissolved  yeast  cake, 
egg,  flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter.  Cover  and  let  rise.  Roll  1  inch  thick  on  afloured 
board.  Cut  with  biscuit  cutter  and  place  close  together  in  a  buttered  biscuit 
pan.  Let  rise  until  very  light.  Dip  fingers  in  flour  and  make  a  cavity  in  center  of 
each  biscuit  and  fill  with  prunes  or  jelly  as  desired.  Bake  15  to  20  minutes  in 
400° F  oven. 

HOT  CROSS  BUNS 

(Ruth  MacDonald) 

1  cup  milk,  scalded  1  cake  yeast,  dissolved  in 
1/3  cup  butter  or  shortening  1A  cup  lukewarm  milk 

Va  cup  sugar  3  cups  flour,  sifted 

V2  tsp.  salt  %  tsp.  cinnamon 

1  egg  y4  cup  raisins  or  currants 

Add  butter,  sugar  and  salt  to  milk.  When  lukewarm,  add  dissolved  yeast  cake 
and  beaten  egg.  Add  flour  and  cinnamon  and  beat  well.  Add  raisins  (or 
currants)  which  have  been  floured  with  a  portion  of  the  flour  called  for  in 
recipe.  Cover  and  let  rise  until  light.  Shape  in  form  of  large  biscuits.  Place  in 
biscuit  pan  1  in.  apart.  Let  rise.  Brush  over  with  beaten  egg  and  bake  20 
minutes  at  400°  F.  Cool  and  with  confectioners  frosting,  make  a  cross  on  top 
of  each  bun. 


33 


STOLLEN  —  GERMAN  CHRISTMAS  BREAD 

(Eloise  Potter) 

1  pkg.  active  dry  yeast  or  1  egg 

1  cake  compressed  yeast  1  cup  seedless  raisins 

V*  cup  water  V*  cup  chopped  mixed  candied  fruits 

Vi  cup  butter  or  margarine  %  cup  currants  (optional) 

1  cup  milk,  scalded  2  Tbsp.  grated  orange  peel 

V«  cup  sugar  1  Tbsp.  grated  lemon  peel 

1  tsp.  salt  V*  cup  coarsely  ground  or  chopped 
1A  tsp.  ground  cardamom  blanched  almonds 

43A  to  5  cups  sifted  enriched  flour 

Soften  active  dry  yeast  in  V*  cup  warm  water  or  compressed  yeast  in  Va  cup 
lukewarm  water.  Melt  butter  in  hot  milk;  add  sugar,  salt,  and  cardamom;  cool  to 
lukewarm.  Stir  in  2  cups  of  the  flour.  Add  egg  and  beat  well.  Stir  in  softened 
yeast,  fruits,  peels,  and  nuts.  Add  remaining  flour  to  make  soft  dough.  Turn  out 
on  lightly  floured  surface.  Cover  and  let  rest  10  minutes.  Knead  5  to  8  minutes  or 
till  smooth  and  satiny.  Place  in  lightly  greased  bowl,  burning  once  to  grease 
surface.  Cover;  let  rise  in  warm  place  till  double,  about  VA  hours.  Punch  down; 
turn  out  on  lightly  floured  surface  and  divide  in  3  equal  parts.  Cover;  let  rest  10 
minutes.  Roll  each  part  into  a  12  x  7-inch  rectangle.  Without  stretching  dough, 
fold  long  side  over  to  within  1  inch  of  opposite  side  to  make  typical  stollen 
crescent  shape;  seal  edges.  Place  on  greased  baking  sheets.  Cover,  and  let  rise 
till  almost  double,  about  30  to  45  minutes.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  (375°  F)  20  to 
25  minutes,  or  till  golden  brown.  While  warm,  brush  with  GLAZE:  To  2  cups 
sifted  confectioners  sugar,  add  Vi  cup  hot  water  and  1  tsp.  butter.  (Or  bursh  with 
butter;  sift  confectioners'  sugar  over.)  Makes  3  loaves. 

POTATO  DONUTS 

(Ruth  MacDonald) 

3  Tbsp.  butter  1A  cup  milk 

Vs  cup  sugar  2Vi  cups  flour,  sifted 

3  egg  yolks,  well  beaten  3  tsp.  baking  powder 

1  egg  white,  well  beaten  Va  tsp.  salt 

1  cup  potatoes,  freshly  mashed  Vi  tsp.  cinnamon,  mace  or  nutmeg 

Sift  dry  ingredients  together.  Cream  the  butter,  beat  in  the  sugar  and  eggs.  Stir 
in  potatoes,  milk  and  dry  ingredients.  Additional  flour  can  be  added  if  mixture 
is  too  soft  to  handle.  Roll  on  floured  board  to  Va  in.  thickness.  Cut  out  and  drop 
into  hot  fat  in  French  fryer.  (The  fat  should  be  hot  enough  to  brown  a  cube  of 
bread  in  one  minute,  or  370°  F  by  a  fat  thermometer.)  Turn  the  doughnuts  as 
soon  as  they  come  to  the  top  of  the  fat  and  continue  turning  until  uniformly 
brown.  Drain  them  in  the  wire  basket  about  1  minute  before  removing  from 
the  pan.  Place  on  crushed  paper  or  wire  rack  to  cool.  Coat  with  powdered 
sugar  or  icing  if  desired. 


34 


HERMAN 

(Grace  Belcher) 

Starter 
2  cups  plain  flour  2  cups  warm  water 

1A  cup  sugar  1  envelope  yeast 

Mix  in  a  plastic  or  glass  container,  cover  and  let  stand  in  a  warm  place 
overnight.  (Cover  must  not  be  tight)  —  he  grows!  Next  day  stir  and  refrigerate, 
covered.  Stir  each  day.  On  the  5th  day  (count  the  day  you  start)  you  must  feed 
him.  Measure  out  1  cup  of  Herman.  (You  can  give  the  rest  to  a  friend  or  make  a 
double  batch.)  Feed  your  cup  full  of  Herman  with  1  cup  flour,  1  cup  milk  and  Vi 
cup  sugar.  After  feeding,  put  Herman  back  in  the  refrigerator,  cover  and  stir 
daily.  Feed  him  with  this  mixture  again  on  the  9th  day  since  you  started.  On  day 
13  Herman  is  ready  to  use. 

Herman  is  man-size  now,  so  you'll  have  enough  on  hand  to  bake  a  Herman 
Coffeecake,  be  generous  with  a  neighbor  by  giving  her  a  cup,  and  have  a  cup 
full  for  another  batch  of  Herman. 

HERMAN  COFFEECAKE 

2  cups  Herman  1  cup  sugar 

2  cups  flour  2  eggs 

Vi  tsp.   cinnamon  2/3  cup  cooking  oil 

Vi  tsp.  baking  soda  1  cup  chopped  nuts 

2  tsp.  baking  powder  1  cup  raisins 

Blend  well  all  ingredients  at  medium  speed.  Stir  in  nuts  and  raisins.  Pour  into 
greased  and  floured  9x13  inch  pan. 

Before  Baking  Topping 
1  Tbsp.  plain  flour  1  tsp.  cinnamon 

1  cup  brown  sugar  1  cup  butter,  melted 

Mix  and  sprinkle  over  cake  swirling  the  topping  through  the  batter  with  a 
spoon.  Bake  at  350° F  for  35  to  40  minutes. 

After  Baking  Glaze 
1  stick  butter  or  margarine  1A  cup  milk 

1  cup  brown  sugar 

Boil  for  5  minutes.  Pour  over  cake  when  it  comes  from  oven. 


35 


On  Breaking  Bread 

Back  of  the  loaf  is  the  snowy  flour, 

And  back  of  the  flour,  the  mill; 

And  back  of  the  mill  is  the  wheat  and  the  shower, 

And  the  sun  and  the  Father's  will. 

O  dear  God,  love  this  home  of  mine, 
And  all  who  dwell  therein; 
Care  for  our  bodies,  bless  our  hearts, 
And  keep  our  lives  from  sin. 

Enter  into  our  hearts,  Lord  Jesus, 
And  hear  our  grateful  prayer 
For  family,  friends,  and  daily  bread  — 
And  our  Maker's  loving  care. 


36 


Qafocfe 


37 


SALADS 
Index 

Blueberry  Salad    39 

Cherries  Jubilee  Fruit  Salad  39 

Cherry  Salad  39 

Cranberry  Salad  40 

Cranberry  Salad  40 

Frozen  Cranberry  Salad  40 

Frozen  Cranberry  Salad  40 

Lime  Salad  41 

Lime  Salad  41 

Salad   41 

Party  Salad    41 

Congealed  Salad   42 

Molded  Combination  Salad    42 

Easy  Orange  Salad    42 

Paradise  Salad    42 

Low  Calorie  Orange  Salad    43 

Tomato  Aspic  Salad    43 

Waldorf  Salad   43 

Six  Cup  Salad  43 

Green  Pea  Salad    44 

Marinated  Salad   44 

Three  Bean  Salad    44 

Vegetable  Salad   45 

Vegetable  Relish    45 

Layered  Salad  45 

Blender  Sour  Cream  45 

Layered  24-Hour  Salad    46 

Cool  Cucumber  Salad    46 

Marinated  Slaw 46 

Dill  Salad  Dressing    46 

Freezer  Slaw    47 

Thousand  Island  Dressing    47 

Fresh  Strawberry  Dressing   47 


38 


BLUEBERRY  SALAD 

(Grace  Belcher) 

2  3-ounce  packages  concord  1  can  (20  ounce)  crushed  pineapple, 

grape  Jello  not  drained 

2  cups  boiling  water  1  can  blueberry  pie  filling 

Dissolve  Jello  in  hot  water.  Add  can  of  pineapple  and  pie  filling.  Mix  well  and 
congeal. 

Topping 
V2  cup  sour  cream  V2  cup  sugar 

1  8-ounce  package  cream  cheese,  1  tsp.  vanilla 

softened  V2  cup  nuts,  chopped 

With  mixer  cream  together  sour  cream,  cheese,  sugar  and  vanilla.  Spread  on 
top  of  salad.  Top  with  chopped  nuts. 


CHERRIES  JUBILEE  FRUIT  SALAD 

(Joy  Reed) 

1  16-ounce  can  pitted  dark  sweet  1  3-ounce  package  cream  cheese, 

cherries,  halved  cubed 

1  3-ounce  package  cherry  gelatin  1A  cup  pecans,  chopped 

1  16-ounce  can  pear  halves, 

drained  and  cubed 

Drain  cherries,  reserving  syrup.  Add  water  to  syrup  to  make  Vh  cups  liquid.  In 
medium  sauce  pan  combine  liquid  and  gelatin.  Heat  and  stir  until  gelatin 
dissolves.  Remove  and  chill  until  partially  set.  Add  pears,  cherries,  cheese  and 
pecans.  Turn  into  41/2  cup  mold  and  chill  until  firm. 


CHERRY  SALAD 

(Carolyn  Bunn) 

1  can  pie  cherries,  pitted  2  3-oz.  pkg.  cherry  Jello 

%  cup  sugar  1  large  can  crushed  pineapple 

V2  cup  cold  water  1  small  bottle  Coca-Cola 

Combine  pie  cherries,  sugar  and  water;  boil  for  2  minutes.  Then  add  remaining 
ingredients.  Put  in  a  mold  and  refrigerate  till  set.  Then  unmold  and  serve. 


39 


CRANBERRY  SALAD 

(Annie  Lee  Reeves) 

1  package  cherry  Jello  1  envelope  Dream  Whip 

%  cup  crushed  pineapple,  drained  (or  Cool  Whip) 

1/3  cup  pecans  1  can  cranberry  sauce,  jellied  type 

Add  %  cup  boiling  water  to  Jello;  then  add  Va  cup  cold  water,  put  in  refrigerator 
until  it  thickens.  Mix  Dream  Whip  according  to  directions  on  package.  Add  whip 
cream  (or  Cool  Whip)  to  Jello.  Add  cranberry  sauce,  pineapple  and  nuts,  celery 
also  if  desired.  Chill  2  or  3  hours. 


CRANBERRY  SALAD 

(Pauline  Stallings) 

2  packages  cherry  Jello  2  oranges 

2  cups  hot  water  2  apples 

IV2  cups  sugar  1  cup  nuts 
1  pint  raw  cranberries 

Grind  apples,  cranberries,  orange  and  rind.  Mix  in  Jello.  Add  nuts.  (If  using 
blender,  cut  down  on  water  in  Jello.)  Serves  16. 


FROZEN  CRANBERRY  SALAD 

(Ruth  T.  Joyner) 

1  can  whole  berry  cranberry  sauce         2  Tbsp.  powdered  sugar 

1  #2  can  crushed  pineapple  2  Tbsp.  mayonnaise 

1  cup  sour  cream  1  cup  chopped  pecans  (optional) 

Mix  all  ingredients  together  and  freeze  in  paper  baking  cups.  Thaw  only  slightly 
before  serving  on  lettuce  leaf.  (May  also  be  used  for  dessert.) 


FROZEN  CRANBERRY  SALAD 

(Becky  Spivey) 

1  can  whole  cranberry  sauce  1  20-ounce  can  crushed  pineapple, 

1  large  Cool  Whip  drained 

2  mashed  bananas  1  cup  chopped  nuts 

Mix  well  and  freeze  in  a  rectangular  Pyrex  dish.  Cut  in  squares.  Store  in 
freezer. 


40 


LIME  SALAD 

(Maggie  White) 


1  6-ounce  package  of  lime  Jello 
Vi  cup  pecans,  chopped 
1  cup  celery,  chopped 


1  3-ounce  package  cream  cheese 

1  #2  can  fruit  cocktail 

1  #2  can  crushed  pineapple 


Dissolve  Jello  in  Vk.  cups  boiling  water.  Dissolve  cream  cheese  with  additional  Vi 
cup  boiling  water.  Add  2  cups  cold  water  to  Jello.  Let  both  mixtures  cool.  Mix  all 
ingredients  together  and  congeal.  Serve  on  lettuce  leaf  with  mayonnaise 
topping. 


LIME  SALAD 

(Lib  Pearce) 


1  large  pkg.  lime  Jello 

IV2  cup  boiling  water 

V2  to  1  dozen  marshmallows 

(or  1  cup  miniature) 
1  8-oz.  pkg.  cream  cheese 


1  small  can  crushed  pineapple 
V2  cup  nuts 

3  Tbsp.  mayonnaise  (optional) 
1  small  container  (or  more) 
Cool  Whip 


Dissolve  Jello,  water  and  marshmallows  together  and  cool  to  room  temperature. 
Mix  the  cream  cheese  and  pineapple  with  a  mixer.  Fold  into  Jello  mixture.  Fold 
nuts,  mayonnaise  and  Cool  Whip  into  Jello  mixture.  Chill. 


SALAD 

(Alice  Farmer) 


1  pkg.  lime  Jello 

1  cup  boiling  water 

1A  lb.  chopped  marshmallows 

1  Tbsp.  lemon  juice 


1  No.  2  can  crushed  pineapple 
1  cup  salad  dressing  or  mayonnaise 
1  cup  cottage  cheese 
Add  nuts  if  desired 


Dissolve  Jello  in  boiling  water.  Cool.  Add  remaining  ingredients.  Put  in  refrigera- 
tor until  congealed.  Cut  in  squares  to  serve.  Or  use  your  favorite  mold. 


PARTY  SALAD 

(Pauline  Stallings) 


1  package  lime  gelatin 

1  package  lemon  gelatin 

2  cups  boiling  water 
2  cups  mayonnaise 

2  cups  grated  cheese 


2  cups  chopped  celery 
1  small  can  crushed  pineapple 
1  small  can  evaporated  milk 
1  cup  finely  chopped  pecans 


Dissolve  gelatins  in  boiling  water.  Mix  in  mayonnaise  with  egg  beater.  Add 
remaining  ingredients  and  chill  until  firm.  10-12  servings. 


41 


CONGEALED  SALAD 

(Eunice  Wall) 

1  large  Cool  Whip 

1  cottage  cheese 

1  can  diet  pineapple,  crushed 

1  cup  nuts,  chopped 

1  Jello  (any  flavor) 

Heat  pineapple  and  Jello  in  sauce  pan.  Let  cool.  When  cool,  whip  in  other 
ingredients  and  add  nuts.  Chill  for  several  hours  before  serving. 

MOLDED  COMBINATION  SALAD 

1  package  lemon  Jello  1  cup  carrot,  grated 

1  cup  boiling  water  Va  cup  cabbage,  shredded 

1  cup  cold  water  1  cup  apple,  peeled  and  chopped 

V2  cup  marshmallows,  cut  finely  1A  cup  nut  meats,  chopped 

Mix  Jello  with  hot  water,  cool.  Add  cold  water.  Chill  until  it  begins  to  thicken. 
Add  other  ingredients.  Pour  into  mold  and  refrigerate  until  firm.  Serve  on 
lettuce  with  favorite  dressing. 

EASY  ORANGE  SALAD 

(Ruth  MacDonald) 

1  package  orange  flavored  Jello 

1  small  can  crushed  pineapple,  drained 

1  cup  cottage  cheese 

1  envelope  Dream  Whip 

Mix  all  together.  Chill  and  serve  on  lettuce  leaves. 


PARADISE  SALAD 

(Emma  Bocock) 
1  3-oz.  pkg.  lemon  Jello  1  lb.  cottage  cheese 

11/a  cup  hot  water  16  marshmallows,  diced 

1  #2  can  crushed  pineapple  Vi  cup  mayonnaise 

(well  drained)  1  cup  cream,  whipped 

Dissolve  gelatin  in  hot  water  and  cool.  Then  add  pineapple,  marshmallows, 
cottage  cheese,  mayonnaise  and  whipped  cream.  Sprinkle  with  a  few  pieces 
finely  chopped  maraschino  cherries.  Place  in  9x13  pan  and  put  in  refrigerator. 
Cut  into  squares  and  serve  on  lettuce  leaf. 


42 


LOW  CALORIE  ORANGE  SALAD 

(Mary  Lib  Privette) 

1  package  orange  Jello  1  container  cottage  cheese 

1  9-ounce  container  Cool  Whip  1  cup  chopped  nuts 

1  can  mandarin  oranges,  drained 

1  large  can  crushed  pineapple,  drained 

Mix  Jello  and  Cool  Whip  together.  Add  balance  of  ingredients.  Refrigerate. 


TOMATO  ASPIC  SALAD 

(Gladys  Hinton) 

2  packages  lemon  Jello  1  Tbsp.  Worcestershire  sauce 

2  cups  hot  V-8  juice  1  Tbsp.  grated  onion 

1  tsp.  salt  Dash  of  cayenne 

2  cups  cold  V-8  juice 

Dissolve  Jello  in  hot  V-8  juice.  Add  salt.  Then  add  cold  V-8  juice, 
Worcestershire  sauce,  onion  and  cayenne.  Pour  into  large  or  individual  molds. 
Refrigerate  until  set. 


WALDORF  SALAD 

(Ruth  Oliver) 

2  cups  diced  apples  V2  tsp.  lemon  juice 

1  cup  sliced  celery  1  Tbsp.  sugar 

Vi  cup  broken  walnuts  Dash  salt 

V*  cup  mayonnaise  or  salad  dressing  1  cup  Cool  Whip 

Toss  all  ingredients  together.  Store  in  refrigerator. 


SIX  CUP  SALAD 

(Grace  Kilkelly) 

2  cans  mandarin  oranges  1  cup  marshmallows 

1  can  pineapple  chunks  1  cup  canned  coconut 

1  cup  seedless  grapes  1  container  (8-oz.)  sour  cream 

Mix  all  ingredients  and  chill. 

Note:  Fresh  orange  sections  sliced  into  bite  size  pieces  may  be  substituted  for 
the  mandarin  oranges. 


43 


GREEN  PEA  SALAD 

(Grace  Kilkelly) 

2  pkg.  frozen  green  peas  2  cups  chopped  celery 

(Dulaney  baby  peas)  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

1  cup  onions  (can  be  spring  green,  1A  tsp.  basil 

include  some  green)  1  cup  chopped  cashew  nuts,  toasted 

8  oz.  sour  cream  6  or  8  bacon  slices,  crisp 

Cook  the  peas  for  2  minutes;  drain.  Mix  all  ingredients  except  the  bacon  and 
nuts.  At  the  last  minute,  toss  the  bacon  and  nuts  into  the  salad. 


MARINATED  SALAD 

(Ruth  Oliver) 

1  large  can  sauerkraut  %  cup  diced  green  pepper 

1  medium  (#2)  can  bean  sprouts  1  can  water  chestnuts,  thinly  sliced 

1  cup  chopped  onions  1  jar  pimento 

1  cup  chopped  celery 

Drain  all  vegetables  and  combine.  Then  pour  marinade  over  vegetables  and 
leave  in  refrigerator  overnight. 

Marinade 
1/2  cup  water  1  cup  sugar 

1  cup  vinegar 

Combine  all  ingredients  and  boil.  Let  cool.  Then  pour  over  vegetables.  Will  keep 
for  2  weeks  in  the  refrigerator. 


THREE  BEAN  SALAD 

(Rochelle  Pulley) 

72  cup  sugar 

Vi  cup  salad  oil 

Vi  cup  cider  vinegar 

1  tsp.  salt 

1  16-ounce  can  cut  green  beans,  drained 

1  16-ounce  can  cut  wax  beans,  drained 

1  16-ounce  can  red  kidney  beans,  drained 

V2  cup  chopped  onion 

Up  to  3  days  ahead,  in  large  bowl  stir  first  4  ingredients.  Add  beans  and  onion; 
mix  well.  Cover  and  refrigerate  at  least  6  hours  to  blend  flavors.  Makes  8 
accompaniment  servings. 


44 


VEGETABLE  SALAD 

(Peggy  Patton) 

1  can  Mexicorn  Small  jar  sliced  pimentos 

1  #2  can  cut  green  beans  4  stalks  celery,  chopped 

1  can  garden  peas  1  large  onion,  diced  or  in  rings 

Drain  vegetables,  mix  with  other  ingredients  and  marinate  24  hours  in  the 
following: 

%  cup  oil  1  cup  sugar 

Vi  cup  vinegar  1  Tbsp.  salt 

Toss  occasionally.  Will  keep  for  days  in  refrigerator. 


VEGETABLE  RELISH 

(Christ  Church,  Raleigh,  N.C.,  from  second  edition) 

1  can  small  peas  1  diced  green  pepper 

1  can  shoe  peg  corn  1  cup  diced  red  onions 

1  can  small  green  beans  1  cup  finely  chopped  celery 
1  diced  red  pimento 

Drain  all  vegetables.  Mix  above  ingredients  and  marinate  in  mixture  of:  1/3  cup 
sugar,  1/2  cup  oil,  1  tsp.  salt,  1  tsp.  pepper,  Va  cup  vinegar. 


LAYERED  SALAD 

(Kay  Pulley) 

Vi  head  lettuce  Vk  cup  mayonnaise 

1  cup  celery  Vk  tsp.  sugar 

1  cup  green  pepper  Parmesan  cheese 

1  cup  onion,  purple  (optional)  4  slices  bacon,  crumbled 

1  17-ounce  small  garden  peas,  canned 

Layer  vegetables  in  2-qt.  bowl  with  tight  lid.  Spread  mayonnaise,  then  sprinkle 
with  sugar,  cheese  and  bacon.  Chill  8  hours. 


BLENDER  SOUR  CREAM 

8  oz.  cottage  cheese  1  Tbsp.  lemon  juice  (or  vinegar) 

Vz  cup  milk 

Combine  in  blender  briefly. 


45 


LAYERED  24-HOUR  SALAD 

(Martha  Plautz) 

1  medium  head  lettuce,  sliced  fine  %  cup  mayonnaise  mixed  with 

Va  cup  green  pepper,  chopped  1A  cup  sour  cream,  spread  over  peas 

Va  cup  celery,  chopped  6  ounces  Cheddar  cheese,  grated 

Va  cup  spring  onions,  chopped  %  cup  Bacos  (imitation  bacon  bits) 
1  package  frozen  peas,  uncooked 

Layer  each  ingredient.  DO  NOT  STIR.  Cover  and  refrigerate  at  least  overnight 
(and  up  to  24  hours).  Toss  and  serve. 

COOL  CUCUMBER  SALAD 

(Louise  Gaddy) 

Peel  and  thinly  slice  12  cucumbers,  5  or  6  medium  sweet  onions,  1  green  bell 
pepper  and  1  red  bell  pepper.  Add  2  tablespoons  salt.  Mix  all  above  ingredients 
together  and  store  in  tupperware  container  in  refrigerator  overnight. 

Drain  off  juice  and  spread  vegetables  on  paper  towels  in  order  to  completely 
get  rid  of  all  juice. 

In  sauce  pan  mix  "IVicups  sugar  and  VA  cups  vinegar;  heat  until  sugar  melts. 
Cool,  add  to  cukes,  onions  &  peppers.  Mix  well  and  put  into  covered  container 
overnight.  Delicious  with  vegetables. 

MARINATED  SLAW 

(Ruth  T.  Joyner) 

1  large  cabbage,  shredded  %  cup  sugar 

1  large  green  pepper,  diced  1  Tbsp.  salt 

1  small  onion,  chopped  finely 

Combine  the  above  and  refrigerate  for  one  hour.  Drain  off  water. 

Add 
Va  cup  vinegar  1  tsp.  celery  seed 

Va  cup  oil  1  small  can  pimento  (optional) 

1  tsp.  dry  mustard 

Refrigerate  at  least  another  hour  before  serving.  Will  keep  in  refrigerator  at  least 
two  weeks. 

DILL  SALAD  DRESSING 

(Georgie  Carmichael) 

4  Tbsp.  kosher  dill  pickle  juice 
1  cup  mayonnaise 

Combine. 


46 


FREEZER  SLAW 

(Emma  Bocock) 

1  medium  cabbage,  shredded  2  cups  sugar 

1  carrot,  grated  1  cup  vinegar 

1  green  pepper,  chopped  1A  cup  water 

1  tsp.  salt  1  tsp.  whole  mustard  seed 

1  tsp.  celery  seed 

Mix  salt  and  cabbage  and  let  stand  1  hour.  Squeeze  excess  moisture  out.  Add 
carrot  and  green  pepper.  Mix  together  other  ingredients  in  pan  and  boil  one 
minute.  Cool  to  lukewarm  and  pour  over  cabbage  mixture.  Mix  well.  This  can 
be  served  or  frozen. 


THOUSAND  ISLAND  DRESSING 

(Donna  Branoff) 

1  cup  mayonnaise  or  salad  dressing 
Vi  cup  chili  sauce 
Vi  cup  mustard  relish 

Mix  together  and  chill. 


FRESH  STRAWBERRY  DRESSING 

(Grace  Belcher) 

%  cup  sliced  ripe  strawberries,  mashed 

2  Tbsp.  Karo  light  syrup 

Vi  cup  Hellman's  mayonnaise 

Mix  ingredients  and  chill  about  an  hour. 


47 


"Lord,  where  we  are  wrong,  make  us  willing  to  change, 
and  where  we  are  right,  make  us  easy  to  live  with  . . ." 


—From  a  prayer  by  Peter  Marshall 


48 


S)UpS  S  QfelA/S 


49 


SOUPS  &  STEWS 
Index 

Oyster  Stew  51 

Potato  Stew  51 

Diet  Soup  51 

Fish  and  Corn  Chowder 51 

Brunswick  Stew    52 

Brunswick  Stew    52 

Chicken/Turkey  Soup    52 

Ratatouille  (Vegetable  Stew)    53 


50 


OYSTER  STEW 

(Mrs.  J.  F.  Coltrane,  from  first  edition) 

1  pint  oysters  2  Tbsp.  butter 

1  pint  milk  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

Drain  liquid  from  oysters,  then  scald  the  liquid  in  a  sauce  pan.  Next  skim  the 
liquid  and  add  oysters.  Cook  until  edges  of  oysters  begin  to  curl  and  add  butter 
and  seasonings.  Then  heat  milk  to  boiling  point  and  add  it  to  oysters.  Serve 
piping  hot. 

POTATO  SOUP 

(Sarah  Tant) 

4  cups  potatoes  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

3  cups  milk  Butter  to  taste 

2  cups  ham,  diced 

Cook  potatoes  until  done  and  drain.  Add  milk,  ham;  then  add  seasonings  and 
butter  to  taste. 

DIET  SOUP 

(Estelle  Terry) 

xk  cabbage  1  can  tomatoes 

2  or  3  carrots  1  bouillon  cube 

1  onion  About  1  cup  water 

2  stalks  celery 

Cook  carrots,  onion,  and  celery  until  done  in  water  with  bouillon  cube.  Add 
tomatoes  and  cabbage;  cover,  simmer  until  done. 


FISH  AND  CORN  CHOWDER 

(Fern  Grantham) 

5  or  6  potatoes,  pared  and  diced  1  haddock  fish  filet, 

1  large  onion,  chopped  cut  in  bite-size  pieces 

Salt  2  cups  milk 

Pepper  1  Tbsp.  butter 
1  can  creamed  corn 

Cook  onions  and  potatoes  together  in  small  amount  of  water.  Add  next  5 
ingredients  and  simmer  until  fish  is  cooked  and  flaky.  Drop  in  butter  in  chunk 
and  allow  to  melt.  Serve  with  oyster  crackers.  (Do  not  let  the  fire  get  too  hot  as 
you  can  burn  it  easily.) 


51 


BRUNSWICK  STEW 

(Margaret  Finch) 

1  large  hen  (cooked  until  very  tender)  3  medium  size  onions 

1  qt.  chicken  stock  (at  least)  Salt 

3  cans  tomatoes  (cut  in  small  pieces)  Black  pepper 
1  can  shoe  peg  corn,  drained  Red  pepper 

1  can  midget  peas,  drained  Worcestershire  sauce 

1  can  midget  lima  beans,  drained  2  stalks  celery 

(Use  the  liquid  from  these 

vegetables  only  if  needed.) 

Put  all  above  ingredients  in  pot  except  chicken.  Cook  until  tender  and  thick.  Add 
chicken  that  has  been  cut  in  small  pieces.  Add  potatoes  that  have  been  cooked 
and  mashed.  Add  enough  of  these  to  make  desired  thickness.  Don't  prepare 
potatoes  until  ready  to  use  or  they  will  become  lumpy  when  added  to  stew.  Use 
spices  to  taste. 

BRUNSWICK  STEW 

(Ann  Davis,  from  second  edition) 

1  6  or  7-lb.  hen  2  lb.  onions 

IV2  lb.  pork  4  small  cans  tomatoes 

IV2  lb.  beef  1  bottle  catsup 

IV2  lb.  dry  butter  beans  1  bottle  Worcestershire  sauce 

1  can  green  butter  beans  Frank's  Hot  Sauce  to  taste 

1  can  corn  Red  pepper  pod 

10  lb.  potatoes  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 

Precook  all  meat  and  bone.  Cook  potatoes,  onions  and  beans.  Add  all  other 
ingredients  and  cook  until  stew  is  thickened,  approximately  2-3  hours. 

CHICKEN/TURKEY  SOUP 

(Edna  Jockers) 

2-3  quarts  broth  2-3  onions,  chopped 

2-3  chicken  bouillon  cubes  1  cup  sliced  carrots  (or  to  taste) 

1-2  cups  chopped  chicken/turkey  Pinch  sage,  parsley,  salt  and  pepper 

(or  left  overs)  for  seasoning 

3-4  stalks  celery,  chopped  1  cup  rice 

(or  to  taste) 

Use  left  over  broth  and  fowl,  adding  water  as  needed  for  proportions.  Add 
bouillon  cubes  and  sage  to  broth.  Boil  celery,  onions  and  carrots  in  broth  until 
tender.  Add  chopped  chicken/turkey  and  rice.  Continue  to  cook  until  rice  is 
done.  If  soup  is  too  thick,  add  water  for  correct  consistency.  Serve  hot.  Will  serve 

4  to  6  persons. 


52 


RATATOUILLE  (Vegetable  Stew) 

(Wayne  Davis) 

1  large  onion,  sliced  in  thin  wedges  1  bay  leaf 

2  cloves  garlic,  minced  1  cup  diced  celery 

V«  cup  olive  or  cooking  oil  1  medium  unpeeled  eggplant 

1  16-oz.  can  tomatoes,  cut  up  2  medium  zucchini,  cut  in  strips 

Vh  tsp.  dried  thyme,  crushed  2  green  peppers,  seeded  and 

1  tsp.  salt  cut  in  strips 
'A  tsp.  pepper 

In  Dutch  oven  cook  onion  and  garlic  in  oil  till  tender.  Add  the  undrained 
tomatoes  and  seasonings.  Cover  and  simmer  10  minutes.  Discard  bay  leaf. 
Remove  and  set  aside  2  cups  sauce  mixture.  Slice  the  eggplant  in  half  length- 
wise, then  crosswose  into  Vfc-inch  slices.  Arrange  half  of  eggplant,  zucchini,  and 
pepper  over  sauce  in  pan.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper.  Cover  with  1  cup 
reserved  sauce.  Arrange  remaining  vegetables  atop;  sprinkle  with  more  salt  and 
pepper.  Pour  over  remaining  sauce.  Cover;  simmer  20  minutes.  Uncover; 
simmer  15  minutes.  Serves  8  to  10. 


53 


54 


55 


BEEF  &  PORK  MAIN  DISHES 
Index 

Swiss  Steak  57 

London  Broil  57 

Flank  Steak  with  Rice  57 

Beef  Stroganoff    58 

Marinated  Roast  Beef  58 

Pepper  Steak 58 

Teriyaki  Steak   59 

Baked  Beef,  Chinese  Style   59 

Hamburger  Goulash   59 

Sauerbraten  Hamburgers    60 

Spaghetti  Sauce  60 

Lasagna    60 

Easy  Lasagne   61 

Impossible  Lasagna  Pie  61 

Beef  Patties  Parmigiano 61 

Ann  Lander's  Meat  Loaf  Recipe    62 

Everyday  Meat  Loaf    62 

Hamburger  Supper   62 

Hamburger  Pie   63 

Savory  Corn-Meat  Pie    63 

Chili   63 

Spareribs  Swedish  Style    64 

Glazed  Pork  Chops  64 

Pork  Chops  on  Rice    64 

Pork  Chop  and  Potato  Scallop    65 

Pork-Rice  Dish   65 

Sauce  Franks    65 


56 


SWISS  STEAK 

(Mrs.  W.  C.  Campen,  from  first  edition) 

2  pounds  round  steak  (2  or  3-inch  thick) 

V*  cup  flour 

1  medium-sized  onion,  chopped 

Salt  steak  and  beat  flour  well  into  it.  Brown  quickly  on  both  sides  in  hot  fat.  Add 
water,  cover  tightly  and  steam  until  very  tender.  More  water  may  be  added  if 
necessary.  When  half  done,  add  chopped  onion.  Tomato  may  be  substituted 
or  both  used. 

LONDON  BROIL 

(Grace  Belcher) 

1  cup  water  1A  tsp.  pepper 

1A  cup  red  wine  vinegar  1  bay  leaf 

1  Tbsp.  tomato  paste  V/2  to  2  pounds  steak 

Va  to  1  tsp.  garlic  salt  for  London  broil,  scored 

V2  tsp.  salt  2  Tbsp.  melted  oleo 

In  shallow  dish  prepare  marinade  by  blending  together  water,  vinegar,  tomato 
paste,  garlic  salt,  salt  and  pepper;  add  bay  leaf.  Place  scored  steak  in 
marinade,  cover  and  refrigerate  overnight.  Remove  steak  from  marinade  to 
broiler  pan.  Transfer  marinade  to  small  pan.  Add  oleo.  Broil  meat  3to  4  inches 
from  heat,  for  5  to  7  minutes,  occasionally  spooning  marinade  over  top.  Turn 
and  broil  an  additional  5  to  7  minutes  or  until  desired  degree  of  doneness. 

If  you  want,  you  can  use  the  following  topping: 

2  cups  shredded  Cheddar  cheese  (8  ounce) 
Vt  cup  butter  or  oleo 

Allow  cheese  to  come  to  room  temperature.  In  a  small  mixing  bowl  beat 
cheese  and  butter  until  smooth.  Spread  top  of  steak  with  the  cheese  topping. 
Slice  steak  in  thin  diagonal  slices  across  grain. 


FLANK  STEAK  WITH  RICE 

(Eloise  Potter) 

V2  to  %  pound  flank  steak  1  package  dry  onion-soup  mix 

1  tsp.  sugar  IV2  cups  instant  rice 

3  cups  water 

Cut  flank  steak  across  grain  into  Ve-inch  thick  slivers.  Brown  sugar  in  skillet;  add 
meat  and  cook  until  meat  loses  its  redness.  Add  water  and  simmer  15  minutes. 
Stir  in  rice,  cover,  remove  from  heat,  and  let  stand  about  5  minutes.  Makes  3  to  4 
servings. 


57 


BEEF  STROGANOFF 

(Patti  Morgan) 

Vi  to  %  pound  flank  steak  2  Tbsp.  flour 

1  medium  onion,  finely  diced  1  cup  beef  stock 

V2  green  pepper,  finely  diced  Paprika 

3  Tbsp.  butter  or  margarine  Salt  and  pepper 

Va  pound  mushrooms,  sliced  1A  cup  sour  cream 

Cut  flank  steak  across  grain  into  1/4-inch  slivers  about  1  inch  long  and  Vfc  wide. 
(For  ease  in  cutting,  have  meat  partly  frozen.)  Brown  meat,  onion,  and  green 
pepper  in  butter  or  margarine  about  10  minutes.  Add  mushrooms;  cook  10 
minutes  longer.  Add  flour;  brown  3  minutes.  Add  stock,  Vz  teaspoon  paprika,  salt 
and  pepper.  When  thickened,  add  sour  cream  that  has  been  allowed  to  reach 
room  temperature.  Heat  through  gently.  Sprinkle  with  additional  paprika.  Serve 
over  cooked  rice  or  noodles.  Makes  2  or  3  servings. 

MARINATED  ROAST  BEEF 

(Gladys  Jones) 

3  or  4  lb.  beef  roast  (eye  of  round,  sirloin  tip,  rump) 

Rub  roast  all  over  with  cooking  oil.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and  garlic  salt. 

Crush  in  blender  or  peppermill: 
1A  cup  whole  pepper  corns 
1  Tbsp.  rosemary 

Press  pepper  and  rosemary  into  roast  on  all  sides.  Wrap  tightly  in  Saran 
and  marinate  for  2  hours  at  room  temperature  or  in  refrigerator.  Place  on  rack  in 
roaster  or  shallow  baking  dish.  Bake  at  350°  F  for  1  hour  or  for  20  minutes  per 
pound  (to  135°Fon  a  roasting  thermometer— rare).  Cool;  wrap  tightly  in  Saran 
and  store  in  refrigerator.  (Can  also  be  served  hot.)  Scrape  herbs  from  meat  just 
before  slicing  for  serving.  Leave  herbs  or  unused  portion  and  return  to  refrig- 
ator.  Can  be  frozen,  but  marinated  roast  keeps  a  long  time  in  refrigerator.  Best  if 
sliced  very  thin  across  grain  of  meat. 

PEPPER  STEAK 

(Debra  Whitley) 

1  lb.  round  steak,  cut  in  strips  2  medium  onions,  chopped 

2  Tbsp.  shortening  2  bell  peppers,  chopped 
1A  cup  soy  sauce  2  Tbsp.  cornstarch 

IV2  cup  water 

Brown  meat  in  shortening  about  10  minutes  or  until  tender.  Add  soy  sauce  and 
water  and  onions.  Simmer  for  15  minutes.  Add  peppers;  cook  until  tender. 
Thicken  with  cornstarch.  Add  mushrooms  or  bean  sprouts.  Serve  over  rice  or 
mashed  potatoes. 


58 


TERIYAKI  STEAK 

(Jane  Driver) 

4  Tbsp.  sesame  seed  oil  or  Wesson  Oil 
Vs  tsp.  black  pepper 

V2  tsp.  red  pepper 

5  ounces  soy  sauce  —  Kikkoman 

4  or  5  green  onions,  chopped  tops  and  all 
4  cloves  of  garlic,  squeezed 
2  Tbsp.  sugar 

1  Tbsp.  honey 

V2  tsp.  monosodium  glutamate 

2  pounds  top  round  steak,  cut  1A-inch  thick 
(allow  1A  pound  of  meat  per  person) 

Mix  ingredients.  Pound  steak  with  mallet  on  both  sides.  Allow  meat  to  marinate 
in  mixture  at  least  12  hours.  Cook  meat  on  grill  until  done,  brushing 
occasionally  with  extra  marinade.  Serves  8. 


BAKED  BEEF,  CHINESE  STYLE 

(Grace  Shields) 

1  pound  ground  beef 

1  cup  chopped  celery 

2  small  onions,  chopped 

V2  cup  rice,  uncooked  and  not  the  instant  kind 

1  can  cream  of  chicken  soup 

1  can  cream  of  mushroom  soup 

1  can  bean  sprouts,  undrained 

1A  cup  soy  sauce 

1  can  chow  mein  noodles 

Brown  meat  and  pour  off  excess  fat.  Add  remaining  ingredients  except  the 
noodles.  Turn  into  T/2  to  2  quart  ungreased  casserole  and  bake  covered  in 
350°F  oven  for  1  hour.  Top  with  noodles  and  bake  10  minutes  longer. 


HAMBURGER  GOULASH 

(Jane  Jennings) 

1  lb.  ground  beef  1  can  cream  of  mushroom  soup 

1  lb.  macaroni  1  can  onion  soup 

Brown  ground  beef  in  pan.  Cook  macaroni  as  directed  on  box.  Drain.  Add  to 
ground  beef.  Add  soups;  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Heat  until  hot  and  serve. 
Serves  6. 


59 


SAUERBRATEN  HAMBURGERS 

(Eloise  Potter) 


IV2  pounds  lean  ground  beef 
1  medium  onion,  minced 
1  egg 
1  tsp.  salt 

1A  cup  dry  bread  crumbs 
or  packaged  stuffing  mix 


1/3  cup  milk 

IV2  cups  water 

Va  cup  vinegar 

10  whole  cloves 

1  bay  leaf 

8  large  ginger  snaps,  crumbled 


Mix  first  6  ingredients  lightly.  Shape  into  4  large  patties.  Brown  on  both  sides  in 
hot  greased  skillet.  Add  remaining  ingredients.  Bring  to  a  boil,  cover,  reduce 
heat,  and  simmer  about  1  hour.  Makes  4  servings.  (Use  2  pounds  ground  beef 
and  an  extra  Va  cup  bread  crumbs  to  serve  6.) 


SPAGHETTI  SAUCE 

(Bobbie  Quick) 


1  lb.  ground  beef 

1  large  onion 

1  small  green  pepper 

1  #2  can  tomatoes 

2  cans  tomato  paste 

1  medium  can  mushrooms 

3  cloves  garlic 
3  Bay  leaves 


V2  tsp.  oregano 
V2  tsp.  rubbed  sage 

2  tsp.  chili  powder 

1  Tbsp.  Worcestershire  sauce 
Salt  to  taste 
1/3  cup  vinegar 

3  Tbsp.  sugar 


Brown  hamburger  and  onion  and  green  pepper.  Add  other  ingredients  and 
simmer  until  thick  enough  to  serve.  Serve  over  hot  noodles. 


LASAGNA 

(Ruth  T.  Joyner) 


1  pound  ground  beef 

1  tsp.  garlic  powder  or  salt 

1  can  tomato  paste  (6  ounce) 

1  pint  canned  tomatoes 

1  tsp.  salt 

%  tsp.  pepper 


V2  tsp.  oregano 

6  lasagna  noodles 

8  ounces  mozzarella  cheese 

%  cup  grated  Parmesan  cheese 

1  carton  cottage  cheese 


Brown  beef.  Add  garlic,  tomato  paste,  tomatoes,  salt,  pepper  and  oregano. 
Simmer  while  noodles  cook.  Use  8x12x2  inch  baking  dish.  Place  3  cooked 
noodles  in  bottom  of  dish.  Layer  with  V2  of  the  sauce,  Va  of  the  mozzarella  cheese 
and  all  of  the  cottage  cheese.  Add  remaining  3  noodles,  mozzarella  cheese,  and 
sauce.  Sprinkle  with  Parmesan  cheese.  Bake  at  350°  F  for  30  minutes.  (May  be 
refrigerated  or  frozen  and  baked  later.) 


60 


EASY  LASAGNE 

(Ruth  Oliver) 

1  pound  ground  beef  %  tsp.  pepper 

Garlic  salt  to  taste  Vz  tsp.  oregano 

1  6-ounce  can  tomato  paste  1  8-ounce  package  lasagne  noodles 

1  1 -pound  can  tomatoes  8  ounces  mozzarella  cheese 

1  tsp.  salt  1  12-ounce  carton  cottage  cheese 

Brown  ground  beef  and  garlic.  Add  tomato  paste,  tomatoes  and  spices.  Cover 
and  simmer  20  minutes,  stirring  occasionally.  Cook  noodles  as  package  directs. 
Preheat  oven  to  350°  F.  Remove  meat-tomato  sauce  from  heat  and  add  cottage 
cheese.  Grease  large  casserole  dish.  Alternate  layers  of  meat  sauce,  noodles 
and  cheese,  beginning  and  ending  with  meat  sauce.  Bake  20  to  30  minutes. 

IMPOSSIBLE  LASAGNA  PIE 

(Grace  Belcher) 

Vz  cup  small  curd  creamed  1  can  (6-ounce)  tomato  paste 

cottage  cheese  1  cup  shredded  mozzarella  cheese 

Va  cup  grated  Parmesan  cheese  1  cup  milk 

1  pound  ground  beef,  2/3  cup  Bisquick  baking  mix 

cooked  and  drained  2  eggs 

1  tsp.  dried  oregano  leaves  1  tsp.  salt 

Vz  tsp.  dried  basil  leaves  V*  tsp.  pepper 

Heat  oven  to  400°  F.  Lightly  grease  1 0-inch  pie  plate.  Layer  cottage  cheese  and 
Parmesan  in  plate.  Mix  beef,  oregano,  basil  and  tomato  paste.  Spoon  half  the 
mozzarella  cheese  evenly  over  top.  Beat  milk,  baking  mix,  eggs,  salt,  and 
pepper  until  smooth  (15  seconds  in  blender  on  high  speed  or  1  minute  with 
hand  beater).  Pour  into  plate.  Bake  until  golden  brown  and  knife  inserted 
halfway  between  center  and  edge  comes  out  clean  (30-35  minutes).  Sprinkle 
with  remaining  cheese.  Let  stand  5  minutes  before  cutting.  6  to  8  servings. 


BEEF  PATTIES  PARMIGIANO 

(Eloise  Potter) 

Vh  to  2  pounds  of  ground  beef  Fine  dry  bread  crumbs 

1  tsp.  salt  3  Tbsp.  margarine 

Vi  tsp.  pepper  1  can  (8  ounces)  tomato  sauce 

1  egg,  beaten  4  to  6  slices  mozzarella  cheese 

2  Tbsp.  milk  Grated  Parmesan  cheese  (optional) 

Mix  meat,  salt,  and  pepper.  Form  in  4  to  6  patties.  Mix  egg  and  milk.  Dip  patties  in 
mixture,  then  in  crumbs.  Brown  patties  on  both  sides  in  margarine  in  skillet  over 
medium  heat.  Pour  over  tomato  sauce  and  simmer  to  desired  degree  of 


61 


doneness.  Top  each  patty  with  a  slice  of  mozzarella  and  a  sprinkling  of 
Parmesan.  Cook  covered  until  cheese  melts.  Serves  4  to  6.  Fresh  or  canned 
mushrooms  may  be  added  with  tomato  sauce. 


ANN  LANDER'S  MEAT  LOAF  RECIPE 

(Carol  Weeks,  Estelle  Terry) 

2  pounds  ground  round  steak  1  tsp.  Accent 

2  eggs  V2  cup  warm  water 

IV2  cups  bread  crumbs  1  package  Lipton  onion  soup  mix 

%  cup  ketchup 

Beat  thoroughly.  Put  in  loaf  pan.  Cover  with  3  strips  bacon  if  you  like  that 
flavor.  Pour  over  all  one  8-ounce  Hunts  Tomato  Sauce.  Bake  one  hour  at  350°  F. 
Serves  six. 


EVERYDAY  MEAT  LOAF 

(Sarah  Eaton) 

V/2  pounds  ground  beef  2  Tbsp.  grated  onion 

2  eggs,  beaten  1  tsp.  salt 

3A  cup  milk  Va  tsp.  ground  sage  (optional) 

2/3  cup  dry  bread  crumbs  Dash  black  pepper 

Combine  eggs,  milk,  bread  crumbs,  onion,  salt,  sage  and  pepper.  Add  beef  and 
mix  well  with  hands.  Pat  mixture  into  8V2  x  41/2  x  21/2  inch  loaf  dish.  Bake  at  350°  F 
for  1  hour.  Spread  catsup  sauce  over  meat  loaf.  Bake  15  minutes  longer.  Makes 
6  generous  servings. 

Catsup  Sauce 
V2  cup  catsup  1  tsp.  dry  mustard 

2  Tbsp.  brown  sugar  1A  tsp.  ground  nutmeg 


HAMBURGER  SUPPER 

(Becky  Spivey) 

IV2  pounds  hamburger,  browned  2  cups  water 

1  cup  tomato  sauce  1  cup  macaroni,  cooked 

1  package  onion  soup  mix  Grated  cheese 

Add  tomato  sauce,  soup  mix  and  water  to  browned  hamburger.  Simmer  5 
minutes.  Add  macaroni  and  grate  cheese  on  top.  Bake  at  450°F  for  15  minutes. 


62 


HAMBURGER  PIE 

(Ruth  Harrell) 

1  pound  ground  chuck  1  can  green  beans  (1  lb.  4  ounce) 

1  small  onion  1  can  tomato  soup  (IOV2  ounce) 

V2  tsp.  salt  2  cup  mashed  potatoes  (instant) 
V*  tsp.  pepper 

Cook  onion  and  beef  in  skillet  until  brown.  Add  seasoning.  Drain  beans  and 
add  soup.  Pour  into  Vh  quart  baking  dish.  Spoon  mashed  potatoes  over 
mixture  and  bake  for  20  minutes  at  350° F.  Serves  4-6. 


SAVORY  CORN-MEAT  PIE 

(Eloise  Potter) 

1  cup  bread  crumbs  1  tsp.  salt 

V2  cup  milk  1  Tbsp.  Worcestershire  sauce 

%  to  1  pound  lean  ground  beef  3  Tbsp.  catsup 

1  egg,  beaten  1  12-ounce  can  Niblet  corn,  drained, 

2  Tbsp.  onion,  grated  seasoned  and  heated 

Soften  bread  crumbs  in  milk.  Add  meat,  egg,  onion  and  seasonings.  Mix  well. 
Line  a  10-inch  pie  pan  with  meat  mixture.  Bake  at  350°  F  for  40  minutes.  Fill 
meat  crust  with  hot  corn.  Return  to  oven  for  5  minutes.  Garnish  with  parsley. 
Serves  4  to  6.  A  larger  size  pan  is  needed  if  a  full  pound  of  meat  is  used. 


CHILI 

(Judi  Corke) 

1  pound  ground  beef 

1  cup  chopped  onion 

2  15-16-ounce  cans  whole  peeled  tomatoes 
1  8-ounce  can  tomato  sauce 

1  16-ounce  can  kidney  beans,  drained 
1  tsp.  salt 
1A  tsp.  pepper 

1  Tbsp.  chili  powder  (or  more  if  desired) 

2  tsp.  sugar 

Brown  beef  and  onion,  drain  fat.  Add  rest  of  ingredients  and  simmer  for  30-60 
minutes.  Serve  with  oyster  crackers.  Makes  approximately  7  cups. 


63 


SPARERIBS  SWEDISH  STYLE 

(Fern  Grantham) 

2  racks  spareribs  (about  2  pounds)  1  Tbsp.  crushed  whole  allspice 

1A  tsp.  pepper  1A  cup  butter 

1  tsp.  granulated  sugar  1  Tbsp.  meat  extract  or  bouillon  cube 

1  Tbsp.  salt  1  cup  hot  water 

Cut  spareribs  into  2  or  3  rib  portions.  Sprinkle  with  pepper,  sugar,  salt  and 
allspice  which  have  been  combined.  Saute  a  few  at  a  time  in  hot  butter  until 
browned  on  both  sides.  (Don't  let  butter  burn.)  Add  extract  or  cube  dissolved 
in  water.  Cook  covered  until  tender  (about  45  minutes).  For  smorgasboard 
serve  cold  or  at  room  temperature.  For  main  dish  serve  hot  with  mashed 
potatoes  and  cream  gravy.  Makes  8  smorgasbord  servings  or  4  main-dish 
servings. 

GLAZED  PORK  CHOPS 

(Fern  Grantham) 

4  1-inch  thick  pork  chops  V»  tsp.  cinnamon 

1  Tbsp.  butter  10  whole  cloves 

2  Tbsp.  water  2  tsp.  orange  rind 
Salt,  pepper  and  paprika  Vz  cup  orange  juice 

5  Tbsp.  sugar  2  tsp.  brandy  flavoring 
IV2  tsp.  cornstarch  4  to  6  thin  orange  slices 
V«  tsp.  salt  2  bunches  white  grapes 

Season  chops  with  salt,  pepper  and  paprika  and  brown  well  in  butter.  Turn 
heat  very  low  and  add  water.  Cover  and  cook  until  tender.  Cook  sugar,  corn- 
starch, salt,  cinnamon,  cloves,  orange  rind,  orange  juice  together  until 
thickened.  Add  flavoring.  Arrange  chops  on  platter,  garnish  with  orange  slices 
and  grapes  and  pour  over  glaze. 


PORK  CHOPS  ON  RICE 

(Cat hey  Terry) 

6  pork  chops  (%-inch  thick) 

1  1/3  cup  packaged  pre-cooked  rice,  uncooked 

1  cup  orange  juice 

1  101/2-ounce  can  condensed  chicken  and  rice  soup 

In  skillet  brown  pork  chops  on  both  sides.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Place 
rice  in  1 2  x  7V2  x  2-inch  baking  dish.  Pour  orange  juice  over  rice.  Arrange  pork 
chops  on  rice.  Pour  chicken  soup  over  all.  Cover  and  bake  at  350° F  for  45 
minutes.  Uncover,  bake  10  minutes.  Serves  6. 


64 


PORK  CHOP  AND  POTATO  SCALLOP 

(Carol  Weeks) 

4  pork  chops  (about  1  pound)  2  Tbsp.  parsley,  chopped 

1  can  (IOV2  ounces)  condensed  4  cup  potatoes,  thinly  sliced 

cream  of  mushroom  soup  Salt 

Va  cup  sour  cream  Pepper 
Va  cup  water 

Brown  chops.  Blend  soup,  sour  cream,  water  and  parsley.  In  2-quart  casserole 
alternate  layers  of  potatoes  sprinkled  with  salt  and  pepper  and  sauce.  Top  with 
chops.  Cover;  bake  in  375°  F  oven  VA  hours.  Serves  3  to  4. 


PORK-RICE  DISH 

1  cup  uncooked  regular  rice  1  can  tomato  soup 

4  or  5  pork  chops  1  cup  water 

1A  cup  chopped  onion 

Sprinkle  rice  in  13  x  9  x  2-inch  pan.  Arrange  chops  over  rice.  Sprinkle  with 
onion.  Combine  soup  and  water  and  pour  on,  lifting  chops  so  liquid  settles  to 
bottom.  Bake  at  375° F  for  1  hour. 


SAUCY  FRANKS 

(Jane  Jennings) 

1  lb.  hotdogs  1A  cup  brown  sugar 

1  small  onion,  chopped  2  Tbsp.  vinegar 

2  Tbsp.  margarine  1  lb.  can  tomato  sauce 
1  Tbsp.  Worcestershire  sauce 

Melt  butter.  Score  hotdogs  and  brown  with  onion  in  skillet.  Add  rest  of  ingredi- 
ents. Simmer  for  30  minutes.  Serve  on  bread. 


65 


66 


67 


POULTRY,  CHEESE  &  EGG  MAIN  DISHES 
Index 

Almond  Chicken    69 

Chicken  Tetrazini  69 

Chicken  and  Vegetables    69 

Barbecue  Chicken   70 

Barbecued  Chicken 70 

Dumplings  for  Chicken  Pastry  70 

Chicken  with  Rice 71 

Chicken  Strata    71 

Broccoli-Chicken  Casserole  71 

Chicken  Crunch  72 

Chicken  and  Rice    72 

Chicken  Casseole  No.  1     72 

Chicken  Casserole  No.  2  72 

Boned  Chicken  in  Sour  Cream    73 

Chicken  in  Garlic  Sauce    73 

Cornish  Hens    73 

Chickenor  Turkey  Chow  Mein  74 

Chicken  Supreme    74 

Pressed  Chicken    74 

Molded  Chicken  Salad   75 

Spicy  Sausage  Stuffing    75 

Cheese  Souffle  75 

Parlsey  Rice    76 

Macaroni  and  Cheese 76 

Baked  Grits  with  Cheese  76 

Cheese  and  Spinach  Quiche    77 

Egg  Foo  Yong  77 

New  Jersey  Eggs   77 

Ten  Minute  Omelet    78 

Eggs  Rustica  78 

Eggs  with  Cream  Dressing   78 


68 


ALMOND  CHICKEN 

(Becky  Spivey) 

1  cup  chicken,  boned  and  uncooked       2  cups  chicken  stock,  heated 

2  Tbsp.  cooking  oil  V2  tsp.  monosodium  glutamate 
Va  tsp.  salt                                                  2  tsp.  soy  sauce 

V2  cup  water  chestnuts,  diced  2  Tbsp.  cornstarch  mixed 
V2  cup  bamboo  shoots,  diced  with  1A  cup  cold  water 

1  cup  celery,  diced  Va  cup  whole  toasted  almonds 
V2  to  1  cup  mushrooms,  diced 

Dice  chicken  into  pieces  approximately  1-inch  square.  Saute  lightly  in  salted 
oil  in  hot  large  frying  pan  about  5  minutes.  Reduce  to  medium  heat  and  add 
vegetables.  Increase  heat  and  toss  and  turn  until  ingredients  are  blended, 
about  3  minutes.  Add  stock,  soy  sauce  and  monosodium  glutemate.  Cover  and 
cook  5  minutes  or  until  vegetables  are  crispy  done.  Gradually  add  cornstarch 
paste  to  thicken  to  medium  consistency.  Add  toasted  almonds  and  serve  at 
once  with  hot  steamed  rice.  Serves  4. 

CHICKEN  TETRAZINI 

(Cookie  Long) 

1  hen  (4  or  5  lbs.)  1  small  can  mushrooms  and  juice 

V2  bell  pepper,  cut  up  fine  and  1  can  mushroom  soup 

boiled  in  salt  water  %  lb.  Italian  spaghetti  (long) 

Va  can  pimentos  cut  fine  V*  lb.  blanched  almonds,  sliced 

Boil  chicken  in  3  or  4  cups  water  until  tender.  Remove  from  broth,  take  off  bones 
and  cut  up  (not  too  fine).  Cook  spaghetti  in  broth  10  minutes  or  until  tender.  Mix 
all  ingredients  and  save  half  of  almonds  to  sprinkle  on  top.  Arrange  in  Pyrex  or 
casserole  dish,  put  in  slow  oven  (350°  F)  for  30  or  40  minutes  before  serving. This 
will  freeze  well  before  baking. 

CHICKEN  AND  VEGETABLES 

(Jean  Wall) 

1  chicken  2  bell  peppers 
4  carrots  V2  cup  rice 

2  onions  Va  cup  shortening  or  oil 
2  stalks  celery  Salt 

V2  cup  catsup  Pepper 

Boil  chicken  until  done.  Save  broth.  Slice  carrots,  onions,  celery  and  bell 
pepper  and  stir-fry  in  oil  in  large  frying  pan  until  almost  tender.  Add  rice, 
catsup  and  enough  broth  to  cover.  When  rice  is  just  done,  add  chicken  which 
has  been  cut  off  bone.  Add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Do  not  overcook. 


69 


BARBECUE  CHICKEN 

(Margaret  Finch,  from  first  and  second  editions) 

1  pint  vinegar  1  stick  butter 

1  pint  water  red  pepper  to  taste 
V/a  Tbsp.  prepared  mustard  (I  use  black  pepper) 
3  Tbsp.  sugar  Salt  to  taste 

2  Tbsp.  Worcestershire  sauce  Paprika 

Mix  together  water,  vinegar,  mustard,  sugar  and  Worcestershire  sauce,  pour  in 
roaster.  Then  put  salted  chickens  in  roaster.  Pour  melted  butter  over  chickens, 
then  sprinkle  red  pepper  on  top  of  that.  Place  uncovered  roaster  in  oven  at  350°  F 
and  let  cook  for  V2  hour.  After  that  baste  every  10  to  15  minutes  with  pastry  brush 
until  tender  and  brown.  Sprinkle  with  paprika  a  few  minutes  before  removing 
from  oven.  You  may  thicken  gravy  if  you  wish.  (This  is  for  2  chickens.) 


BARBEQUED  CHICKEN 

(Carol  Weeks) 

1  frying  size  chicken  V2  stick  margarine 

V2  cup  vinegar  1  Tbsp.  tomato  ketchup 

Va  cup  water  Salt 

1  tsp.  red  pepper 

Cut  up  chicken.  Salt.  Put  in  pressure  cooker  with  other  ingredients  and 
pressure  cook  20  minutes. 

DUMPLINGS  FOR  CHICKEN  PASTRY 

(Mrs.  Joe  Tippett,  from  second  edition) 

1  cup  plain  flour,  unsifted 

1  lump  shortening,  (size  of  walnut) 
preferably  lard 

V2  cup  boiling  water 

2  eggs 

Nest  shortening  in  flour.  Pour  boiling  water  over  shortening.  When  shortening 
dissolved,  break  in  eggs  and  work  all  ingredients  together  into  pie  dough 
consistency.  Roll  out  dough  until  paper  thin.  Let  dry.  Cut  into  strips. 

Season  broth  in  which  hen  has  been  tendered  with  Vi  tsp.  black  pepper,  V6  tsp. 
sage,  and  salt  to  taste.  Bring  broth  to  rolling  boil  and  drop  in  pastry,  piece  by 
piece.  Be  sure  each  piece  of  pastry  is  submerged  before  adding  another  or  it 
will  stick  together. 

Cover  pot  and  let  simmer  slowly  15  minutes.  Pastry  will  float  when  done. 


70 


CHICKEN  AND  RICE 

(Carol  Weeks) 

1  chicken,  cut  up  1  envelope  onion  soup  mix 

1  i01/2-ounce  can  cream  of  1  cup  uncooked  rice 

mushroom  soup  2  soup  cans  of  water 

Combine  all  ingredients  except  chicken.  Put  in  13x  9x  1-inch  baking  dish.  Mix 
well.  Arrange  chicken  over  rice  mixture.  Brush  chicken  with  melted  butter. 
Cover  with  foil.  Bake  at  425°  F  for  30  minutes.  Remove  foil  and  bake  30  minutes 
longer  or  until  chicken  is  done. 


CHICKEN  STRATA 

(Grace  Belcher) 

2  slices  white  bread,  cubed  Va  cup  mayonnaise 

6  slices  white  bread,  whole  with  %  tsp.  salt 

crusts  removed  Dash  pepper 

2  cups  diced  cooked  chicken  2  beaten  eggs 

Va  cup  chopped  onion  1Va  cups  milk 

V2  cup  chopped  celery  1  can  cream  of  mushroom 
Va  cup  chopped  green  pepper  soup  undiluted 

Place  layer  of  cubed  white  bread  in  bottom  of  pan.  Combine  chicken,  onion, 
celery,  green  pepper,  mayonnaise,  salt  and  pepper  and  spread  over  cubes. 
Arrange  bread  slices  atop  chicken  mixture.  Beat  eggs  and  combine  with  milk. 
Pour  over  all.  Cover  and  chill  1  hour  or  overnight.  Stir  mushroom  soup  and 
spoon  over  top.  Bake  in  325° F  oven  about  1  hour  or  until  set. 


BROCCOLI-CHICKEN  CASSEROLE 

(Susie  Roberson) 

2  10-ounce  packages  frozen  broccoli  1  tsp.  lemon  juice 

2  cups  sliced  chicken,  cooked  V2  tsp.  curry  powder 

2  cans  cream  of  chicken  or  mushroom  %  cup  Pepperidge  Farm  dressing 

soup  1/2  cup  grated  Cheddar  cheese 
1  cup  mayonnaise 

Cook  broccoli  3-5  minutes.  Drain.  Put  on  bottom  of  9  x  12-inch  casserole. 
Layer  chicken  evenly  over  broccoli.  Mix  soups,  mayonnaise,  lemon  juice  and 
curry  powder.  Pour  over  all.  Sprinkle  with  dressing.  Cook  25-30  minutes  at 
350°  F.  During  last  10  minutes  sprinkle  with  cheese. 


71 


CHICKEN  CRUNCH 

(Eloise  Potter) 

1  can  cream  of  mushroom  soup 

%  cup  milk 

1  Tbsp.  onion,  finely  chopped 

1  Tbsp.  parsley,  chopped  (or  dried  flakes) 

2  pounds  chicken  parts 

1  cup  herb-seasoned  stuffing,  finely  crushed 

2  Tbsp.  butter,  melted 

Mix  1/3  cup  soup,  Va  cup  milk,  onion  and  parsley.  Dip  chicken  parts  in  mixture. 
Roll  in  stuffing.  Place  in  shallow  baking  dish  (12x  8x  2-inch).  Drizzle  butter  on 
chicken.  Bake  at  400°F  for  1  hour.  Combine  remaining  ingredients  (soup  and 
milk)  and  heat,  stirring  now  and  then.  Serve  over  chicken  if  desired.  4  to  6 
servings. 

CHICKEN  AND  RICE 

(Jane  Jennings) 

1  chicken  cut  in  serving  pieces  1  can  cream  of  mushroom  soup 

2  cups  rice  1  can  onion  soup 

Put  rice  in  bottom  of  9x12  pan.  Place  chicken  on  top  of  rice.  Mix  soups  with  1  can 
of  water.  Pour  over  chicken.  Bake  in  oven  at  350°  F.  for  1  hour. 

CHICKEN  CASSEROLE  NO.  1 

(Rochelle  Pulley) 

3  pounds  chicken  1  can  undiluted  cream  of  celery  soup 

1  cup  rice  1  can  undiluted  cream  of  chicken  soup 

1  package  dry  onion  soup  mix 

Boil  chicken  and  take  meat  off  bones.  Cook  rice  in  broth.  Put  cooked  rice  in 
bottom  of  baking  dish  and  pour  celery  soup  over  it.  Arrange  chicken  on  top  of 
this  and  pour  chicken  soup  over  it.  Add  a  little  broth  if  dry.  On  top  sprinkle  dry 
onion  soup  mix.  Bake  30  to  45  minutes  at  375° F  until  brown. 

CHICKEN  CASSEROLE  NO.  2 

(Mrs.  C.  S.  Foshee,  from  second  edition) 

4  cups  chicken,  cooked  and  diced  2  cup  Pepperidge  Farm  dressing 
1  can  cream  chicken  soup  2  Tbsp.  onion,  grated 

1  small  can  pimento 

Add  soup,  pimento  and  onion  to  chicken.  Any  amount  of  seasoning  you  desire 
may  be  used.  Put  a  layer  of  crumbs  in  baking  dish  and  alternate  with  chicken 
mixture.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  until  well-blended. 


72 


BONED  CHICKEN  IN  SOUR  CREAM 

(Jane  Driver) 

6  chicken  breasts  4  tsp.  salt 

1  pint  sour  cream  Vi  tsp.  pepper 

1  tsp.  celery  salt  Va  stick  butter  or  margarine 

2  tsp.  paprika  1  large  box  Pepperidge  Farm 
4  cloves  garlic  stuffing    mix 

Skin  chicken  and  debone.  Cut  breasts  in  half.  Combine  sour  cream,  lemon 
juice  and  all  spices.  Turn  chicken  to  coat  well.  Refrigerate  overnight.  Preheat 
oven  to  350°F.  Roll  coated  chicken  in  stuffing  mix.  Arrange  in  single  layer  in 
baking  dish.  Melt  butter  and  spoon  over  chicken.  Bake  uncovered  for  45 
minutes.  Spoon  rest  of  butter  over  chicken  and  bake  15  to  20  minutes  longer 
until  brown.  Makes  12  servings. 

CHICKEN  IN  GARLIC  SAUCE 

(Fern  Grantham) 

3-pound  fryer,  cut  in  pieces  %  cup  milk 

1  clove  garlic,  chopped  fine  1  Tbsp.  coarse  salt 
Va  cup  butter  Pepper 

2  Tbsp.  vegetable  oil  V%  tsp.  cayenne 
VU  cups  water 

Melt  butter  and  oil  together.  Add  chicken  and  brown.  Remove  chicken  and  add 
garlic  and  saute  until  golden  brown.  Add  water,  milk,  salt,  pepper  and 
cayenne.  Stir  to  loosen  brown  bits.  Bring  to  a  boil.  Return  chicken  to  pan. 
Cover  and  cook  on  low  heat  45  minutes  to  1  hour.  Remove  chicken  and  keep 
warm. 

Sauce 

3  egg  yolks 

1  cup  heavy  cream 

Beat  egg  yolks  into  cream.  Stir  into  pan  drippings.  Cook  on  low  heat  until 
thickened.  Do  not  allow  to  boil.  Strain,  spoon  some  over  chicken  and  serve  rest 
in  bowl  to  be  poured  over  cooked  rice. 

CORNISH  HENS 

(Sandra  Ward) 

2  cornish  hens  1  can  cream  of  chicken  soup 
1  cup  uncooked  rice  1  pkg.  Good  Seasons  Italian 
2V2  cups  water  Salad  Dressing  mix 

Mix  all  ingredients  and  pour  over  and  around  hens.  Cover  and  bake  at  350°  F  for 
1  hour.  Uncover  and  bake  3  minutes.  Serves  6. 


73 


CHICKEN  or  TURKEY  CHOW  MEIN 

(Carol  Weeks) 

1  stick  margarine 

1  cup  onion,  chopped 

2  cups  celery,  chopped 

1  tsp.  salt 

4  cups  cooked  chicken  or  turkey,  chopped 

2  cans  mixed  Chinese  vegetables,  drained 
2V2  cups  chicken  broth  or  hot  water 

Thickening 
1A  cup  cold  water  1  Tbsp.  soy  sauce 

4  Tbsp.  cornstarch  or  flour  1  tsp.  sugar 

Melt  butter,  add  celery  and  onion  and  cook  until  tender.  Add  broth  and  meat. 
Cook  and  add  drained  vegetables.  Add  thickening  and  turn  off  heat.  Do  not 
cook  too  much.  Serve  over  rice  or  Chow  Mein  noodles.  Add  moresoy  sauce,  if 
you  like  the  flavor. 


CHICKEN  SUPREME 

(Pauline  Stallings) 

4  to  6  chicken  breasts,  halved  1  can  mushroom  soup 

8  to  12  strips  bacon  1/4  pound  chipped  beef 

V2  pint  Sealtest  sour  cream 

Wrap  1  strip  of  bacon  around  each  half  of  chicken  breast.  Put  side  by  side  in 
baking  pan  which  has  been  covered  with  a  layer  of  chipped  beef.  Mix  sour 
cream  and  soup  and  pour  over  chicken.  Do  NOT  salt  since  bacon  and  chipped 
beef  supply  plenty.  Cook  uncovered  at  300° F  for  2  hours.  The  sauce  will  be 
almost  absorbed  and  the  chicken  nicely  browned  outside  and  succulent 
inside.  This  is  an  ideal  company  dish.  If  dinner  is  delayed,  this  dish  may  remain 
in  the  oven  as  much  as  another  hour  without  harm. 


PRESSED  CHICKEN 

(Mrs.  Donald  Stallings,  from  first  edition) 

1  hen,  cooked  and  diced  1  cup  chicken  broth 

1  cup  English  peas  (canned)  4  eggs,  boiled  and  diced 

2  cups  celery,  diced  5  tsp.  tomato  catsup 

1  cup  almonds,  chopped  1  package  Knox  gelatine 

1  cup  mayonnaise 

Dissolve  gelatine  in  Vz  cup  broth.  Mix  dry  ingredients.  Add  mayonnaise,  then 
add  gelatine.  Put  into  molds  and  serve  on  lettuce  ice  cold. 


74 


MOLDED  CHICKEN  SALAD 

(Fern  Grantham) 

1  envelope  unflavored  gelatin  1/3  cup  mayonnaise 

2  Tbsp.  lemon  juice  1  cup  diced,  cooked  chicken 
2  chicken-bouillon  cubes                         %  cup  diced  apples 

V2  tsp,  salt  Salad  greens 

1%  cups  hot  water 

Soften  gelatin  in  lemon  juice.  Dissolve  bouillon  cubes  and  salt  in  hot  water; 
add  to  gelatin.  Cool  until  consistency  of  unbeaten  egg  white.  Fold  in 
mayonnaise,  chicken  and  apples.  Pour  into  6  small  molds  or  into  loaf  pan. 
Refrigerate  until  firm.  Unmold  and  serve  on  crisp  salad  greens.  Makes  6 
servings. 


SPICY  SAUSAGE  STUFFING 

(Fern  Grantham) 

1  pound  hot  pork  sausage  1  can  cream  of  mushroom  soup 

Vz  cup  onion,  chopped  4  more  cups  bread  stuffing  cubes 

1  cup  celery,  chopped  1  Tbsp.  parsley,  chopped 

3  cups  bread  stuffing  cubes  V2  tsp.  salt 

V2  cup  milk  1  tsp.  poultry  seasoning 

Crumble  sausage  and  brown  in  frying  pan.  Add  onion  and  celery  and  cook 
until  tender.  Add  3  cups  stuffing  cubes  and  cook  until  light  brown.  Heat  milk 
and  soup  together,  stirring  until  smooth.  Add  to  4  more  cups  stuffing  cubes. 
Combine  with  sausage  mixture.  Add  parsley,  salt  and  poultry  seasoning.  Bake 
in  buttered  casserole,  covered,  20  minutes  at  350° F.  Uncover  and  bake 
another  5  minutes  for  a  crisp  topping.  Yield  10  to  12  servings. 


CHEESE  SOUFFLE 

(Joy  Reed) 

9  slices  bread,  cubed  Va  tsp.  salt 

1  stick  margarine  or  butter  3  egg  yolks,  beaten 

%  pound  sharp  Cheddar  cheese,  grated  3  egg  whites,  stiffly  beaten 

V2  tsp.  red  pepper  2  cups  milk 

V2  tsp.  dry  mustard 

Melt  margarine  and  pour  over  bread  cubes.  Combine  remaining  ingredients, 
except  egg  whites.  Pour  over  bread  mixture.  Fold  in  egg  whites.  Put  in  11  x 
7-inch  baking  dish.  Refrigerate  overnight.  Sprinkle  with  paprika  and  bake  at 
350° F  for  30-45  minutes  until  firm. 


75 


PARSLEY  RICE 

(Mrs.  William  K.  Quick,  from  second  edition) 

1  cup  rice  (cook  as  directed)  1  tsp.  parsley 

1  can  cream  of  chicken  soup  1  cup  grated  cheese 

Va  can  water  1  Tbsp.  grated  onion 

After  rice  is  well  done,  combine  with  other  ingredients,  reserving  enough  cheese 
to  garnish  top  of  the  casserole.  Bake  in  medium  oven  until  thoroughly  hot  and 
the  cheese  is  melted. 


MACARONI  AND  CHEESE 

(Linda  Chamblee) 

21/2  cup  uncooked  elbow  macaroni  V2  tsp.  dry  mustard 

IV2  Tbsp.  salt  Dash  pepper 

21A  cup  milk 

Sauce:  2  cups  grated  sharp  Cheddar  cheese 

V*  cup  butter  or  maragarine  3  Tbsp.  butter  or  margarine,  melted 

Va  cup  unsifted  all-purpose  flour  Va  cup  packaged  dry  bread  crumbs 
1  tsp.  salt 

Preheat  oven  to  375° F.  In  large  kettle,  bring  4  quarts  water  to  boiling.  Add 
macaroni  and  salt;  boil  rapidly,  uncovered  and  stirring  occasionally,  10  minutes, 
or  until  tender.  Drain.  Meanwhile,  make  sauce:  Melt  butter  in  2-qt.  saucepan; 
remove  from  heat.  Stir  in  flour,  salt,  mustard,  and  pepper  until  smooth.  Gradually 
add  milk;  cook,  over  medium  heat,  stirring  constantly,  until  mixture  begins  to 
boil.  In  2-qt.  casserole,  layer  half  macaroni  with  %  cup  cheese;  repeat.  Pour 
sauce  over  top  and  sprinkle  with  rest  of  cheese.  Toss  butter  with  bread  crumbs; 
sprinkle  over  top.  Bake,  uncovered,  for  30  minutes  or  until  cheese  is  golden. 


BAKED  GRITS  WITH  CHEESE 

(Kaye  Grissom) 

1  cup  grits  Vs  tsp.  red  pepper 
Va  pound  grated  cheese  Paprika 

2  eggs 

Cook  grits  as  usual.  Add  cheese,  saving  some  for  topping.  Add  eggs.  Season 
with  pepper.  Pour  into  IV2  quart  casserole.  Top  with  cheese.  Sprinkle  with 
paprika.  Bake  20  minutes  at  375°  F.  Serve  hot. 


76 


CHEESE  AND  SPINACH  QUICHE 

(Emma  Bocock) 

1  9"  unbaked  pie  shell  3  eggs,  beaten 

2  slices  Swiss  cheese  (7"x4")  1  cup  half  and  half 
V2  cup  chopped  spinach                             2  tsp.  flour 

Va  cup  sliced  mushrooms  Va  tsp.  salt 

1  can  tender  chunk  ham  or  chicken  1A  cup  shredded  Cheddar  cheese 

(flake  with  fork) 

Place  Swiss  cheese  on  bottom  of  crust;  sprinkle  with  spinach,  mushrooms  and 
meat.  Mix  well  next  4  ingredients.  Pour  into  pie  shell.  Sprinkle  with  Cheddar 
cheese.  Bake  at  350°  F  for  40  to  45  minutes.  Makes  4  to  6  servings. 


EGG  FOO  YONG 

(Cat hey  Terry) 

6  eggs 

IV2  cups  (16-ounce  can)  bean  sprouts,  drained 

1A  cup  instant  minced  onion  or 

1  cup  chopped  onion 
2  Tbsp.  chopped  green  pepper 
Va  tsp.  salt 
Dash  pepper 

In  large  mixing  bowl,  beat  eggs  well.  Add  remaining  ingredients  and  mix  well. 
In  large  fry  pan  heat  about  2  Tbsp.  oil.  Drop  egg  mixture  by  tablespoonful  and 
fry  until  golden.  Turn  and  brown  other  side.  Drain  on  paper  towel.  Serve  hot 
with  soy  sauce.  Sliced  water  chestnuts,  diced  cooked  pork  or  shrimp  can  be 
added  for  variety. 


NEW  JERSEY  EGGS 

(Mary Ann  Powell) 

1  large  onion  6  eggs 

1  clove  garlic  1  tomato,  sliced 

1  green  pepper  Va  cup  Cheddar  cheese,  grated 

Va  lb.  mushrooms,  sliced 

Saute  onion,  green  pepper,  garlic  and  sliced  mushrooms  in  butter  or  bacon 
drippings  in  a  cast-iron  skillet.  When  they  are  almost  done,  break  whole  eggs 
over  top,  arranging  so  that  yolks  are  evenly  distributed  throughout  pan.  Watch 
eggs  very  closely  and  when  almost  set,  place  sliced  tomatoes  in  an  even  layer  on 
top  of  eggs  and  top  with  cheese.  Then  transfer  the  skillet  to  the  oven  and  cook 
under  the  broiler  until  eggs  are  done  and  cheese  is  melted. 


77 


TEN  MINUTE  OMELET 

(Emma  Bocock) 


4  eggs,  separated 
Va  tsp.  salt 
Vs  tsp.  pepper 


1  Tbsp.  flour 

2  Tbsp.  softened  butter  or  margarine 
1  Tbsp.  water 


Beat  egg  whites  with  salt  until  stiff  but  not  dry.  In  separate  bowl  beat  egg  yolks 
with  salt,  pepper,  flour,  1  Tbsp.  butter  and  water  until  fluffy.  Fold  beaten  yolks 
into  whites.  Heat  remaining  butter  in  9"  skillet  until  hot.  Pour  in  eggs.  Cover 
tightly,  reduce  heat  to  low  and  cook  8  to  10  minutes  until  eggs  feel  dry.  Fold  in 
half  and  serve. 


EGGS  RUSTICA 

(Mary Ann  Powell) 


%  lb.  bacon 

3/<  lb.  mushrooms 

2/3  cup  sliced  green  onions 

12  eggs 


IV2  cup  heavy  cream  or  half-and-half 
V2  tsp.  salt 
Vs  tsp.  pepper 
2  cups  cheese 


Fry  bacon,  drain  and  crumble.  Fry  mushrooms  and  onions  in  reserved  bacon 
drippings.  Mix  eggs  and  cream  together.  Add  salt  and  pepper.  Place  bacon  and 
mushroom  mixture  in  a  buttered  oven  dish.  Pour  egg  mixture  over  that  and 
sprinkle  cheese  over  all.  Bake  for  35  minutes  at  325°  F.  This  recipe  can  be  easily 
cut  in  half. 


EGGS  WITH  CREAM  DRESSING 

(Ruth  MacDonald) 


1  tsp.  salt 

Pinch  pepper 

3  eggs,  hard-boiled 


2  Tbsp.  butter 

3  Tbsp.  flour 
IV2  cup  milk 

Cream  butter  and  flour.  Place  on  stove  and  stir  until  butter  is  melted.  Add  milk, 
stirring  all  the  time  until  mixture  is  thick.  Add  salt  and  pepper.  Separate  the 
whites  of  eggs  from  yolks.  Chop  the  whites  fine  and  add  to  the  dressing. 
Arrange  slices  of  toast  on  a  hot  platter.  Pour  the  dressing  over  the  toast.  Force 
the  yolks  through  a  ricer  onto  the  toast  and  dressing.  Serve  hot. 


78 


Qeofaod 


79 


SEAFOOD 
Index 

Fish  Stew   81 

Mock  Lobster    81 

Baked  Fish 81 

Baked  Fish  Fillets    82 

Salmon  Southern  Corn  Bread  82 

Salmon  Cassoulet 82 

Tuna  Cream    83 

Tuna  Casserole    83 

Shrimp-Egg  Casserole 83 

Jambalaya   84 

Shrimp  and  Macaroni  Salad 84 

Lobster  Cantonese   85 

Irish  Pigs  in  Blanket   85 

Hot  Hatteras  Oysters  Casino  85 

Escalloped  Oysters  86 


80 


FISH  STEW 

(Barbara  Ail  Is) 


1  can  tomato  juice 

1  pint  water 

3A  cup  Wesson  oil 
4  eggs 

2  tsp.  salt 


2  lbs.  rock  fish 

2  lbs.  Irish  potatoes 

2  lbs.  onions 

2  cans  tomato  sauce 

1A  cup  A-1  sauce 

Vz  tsp.  red  pepper 

Make  in  thick  pot.  Sprinkle  salt  over  bottom  of  pot,  add  Wesson  oil.  Heat  to 
medium  heat,  sear  fish  on  all  sides  but  do  not  brown,  turn  often  for  afew  minutes. 
This  will  keep  the  fish  in  chunks.  Add  water,  let  come  to  a  boil,  add  potatoes  cut 
as  you  like,  add  pepper,  A-1  sauce,  tomato  sauce,  and  juice.  Add  onions  20 
minutes  before  you  serve.  Boil  eggs,  peel  and  cut.  Add  to  stew  just  before  serv- 
ing. Cook  slow  about  2  hours.  Serves  8. 


MOCK  LOBSTER 

(Grace  Belcher) 


3  cups  cold  water 
3  Tbsp.  vinegar 


1  box  frozen  haddock 

(1  lb.),  partially  salted 
V»  pound  butter  (not  oleo) 

Simmer  haddock  in  water  and  vinegar  with  lid  on  15  minutes.  Melt  butter  in 
separate  pan.  Place  fish  gently  on  broiler  pan  and  pour  1/3  melted  butter  on 
top  and  put  under  broiler  for  7  to  10  minutes.  Serve  in  hunks  with  additional 
melted  butter.  Serves  4. 


1  cup  lemon  juice 
V2  to  3A  cup  grated  onion 
3  Tbsp.  prepared  mustard 
V»  cup  melted  margarine 


BAKED  FISH 

(Ruth  T.  Joyner) 


2  Tbsp.  Worcestershire  Sauce 
1  Tbsp.  black  pepper 
Salt  (approx.  V*  tsp.  per  pound 
of  fish) 


Place  fish  on  greased  aluminum  foil  in  large  baking  pan.  Cut  the  fish  several 
times  across  the  back.  Place  several  slices  of  bacon  across  top  of  fish.  Pour 
sauce  over,  and  seal  the  edges  of  aluminum  foil  around  the  fish.  Bake  at  350°F  to 
400°  F  for  1  to  Vh  hours. 


81 


BAKED  FISH  FILLETS 

(Celia  Wade) 

Desired  amount  of  fish  fillets 
Salt  and  pepper  to  taste 
Italian  Salad  Dressing 

Place  fish  in  baking  dish  and  season  to  taste.  Pour  salad  dressing  mixture  over 
the  fish  and  bake  in  350°  F  for  30  minutes.  After  the  first  1 5  minutes,  turn  the  fish 
and  baste  with  the  sauce. 


SALMON  SOUTHERN  CORN  BREAD 

(Florence  Grimm) 

1  7%-ounce  can  salmon  Vi  tsp.  salt 

1  cup  sifted  flour  1  egg,  beaten 

1  cup  cornmeal  1  cup  salmon  liquid  and  milk  combined 

4  tsp.  baking  powder  1A  cup  margarine,  melted 

Vt  cup  sugar 

Drain  salmon,  reserving  liquid.  Flake  salmon.  Sift  together  flour,  cornmeal, 
baking  powder,  sugar  and  salt.  Combine  egg,  salmon  liquid  and  milk  and 
margarine.  Add  to  dry  ingredients  and  mix  just  enough  to  moisten.  Stir  in 
salmon.  Place  in  a  well-greased  baking  dish,  8  x  8  x  2-inch.  Bake  in  hot  oven 
(425° F)  for  25  to  30  minutes.  Makes  6  servings. 


SALMON  CASSOULET 

(Florence  Grimm) 

1  1-pound  can  salmon  2  tsp.  powdered  mustard 

1  cup  uncooked  elbow  macaroni  %  tsp.  pepper 

1  Tbsp.  chopped  green  pepper  2  cups  salmon  liquid  and  milk  combined 

1  clove  garlic,  finely  chopped  1  cup  grated  cheese 

1/3  cup  margarine,  melted  1  cup  cooked  lima  beans. 

1/3  cup  flour 

Drain  salmon,  reserving  liquid.  Flake  salmon.  Cook  macaroni  as  directed  on 
package.  Drain.  Cook  green  pepper  and  garlic  in  margarine  until  tender.  Blend 
in  flour  and  seasonings.  Add  salmon  liquid  and  milk  gradually  and  cook  until 
thick,  stirring  constantly.  Add  cheese  and  continue  cooking  until  cheese 
melts,  stirring  constantly.  Arrange  half  of  the  macaroni,  lima  beans,  salmon 
and  sauce  in  layers  in  a  well-greased  2-qt.  casserole.  Repeat  layers.  Bake  in 
moderate  oven  (350°  F)  for  25  to  30  minutes.  Makes  6  servings. 


82 


TUNA  CREAM 

(Jane  Jennings) 

3  hard  boiled  eggs  (chopped)  4  cups  milk 

8  Tbsp.  margarine  1  lb.  can  peas  (drained) 

8  Tbsp.  flour  6V2  oz.  can  tuna  fish 

Melt  margarine.  Smooth  in  flour.  Slowly  add  milk,  stirring  constantly.  Bring  to 
boil.  Boil  1  minute.  Add  chopped  eggs,  tuna  and  peas.  Heat  to  serve.  Serve  on 
bread  or  toast.  Serves  6. 


TUNA  CASSEROLE 

(Carol  Weeks) 

1  can  (101/2-ounce)  condensed  cream  of  celery  soup 
V2  cup  milk 

2  cups  noodles,  cooked 

1  can  (7-ounce)  tuna,  drained  and  flaked 

2  Tbsp.  pimentos,  diced 
2  Tbsp.  parlsey,  chopped 

2  Tbsp.  buttered  bread  crumbs 

Blendsoup  and  milk.  Add  noodles, tuna,  pimento  and  parsley.  Pour  into  1 1/2  qt. 
casserole.  Top  with  crumbs.  Bake  at  350° F  for  30  minutes  or  until  hot  and 
bubbly.  3  to  4  servings.  Cooked  chicken  may  be  substituted  for  tuna. 


SHRIMP-EGG  CASSEROLE 

(Fern  Grantham) 

IV2  pounds  raw  shrimp 
1  stick  butter 

1  tsp.  seafood  seasoning 
8  hard-boiled  eggs 

2  cans  cream  of  mushroom  soup 
1  small  can  condensed  milk 

1  small  jar  pimentos 

2  cans  sliced  mushrooms 
Parmesan  cheese 

Simmer  shrimp  in  butter  mixed  with  seafood  seasoning  25  minutes.  Drain. 
Make  a  layer  of  shrimp,  layer  of  eggs  and  a  layer  of  mushrooms.  Repeat.  Mix 
soup,  pimentos  and  milk.  Pour  over  top.  Sprinkle  well  with  cheese.  Bake  at 
350°  F  for  30  minutes.  Serve  with  yellow  rice  or  very  thin  noodles. 


83 


JAMBALAYA 

(Eloise  Potter) 

6  slices  bacon,  fried  and  crumbled 
1  1/3  cups  celery,  diced 
1  cup  onion,  chopped 

1  cup  green  pepper,  diced 

2  cans  condensed  tomato  soup,  undiluted 
2  Tbsp.  ketchup  (or  bottled  chili  sauce) 

2  Tbsp.  Worcestershire  sauce 
1  cup  water 

1  or  2  bay  leaves  (optional) 

Canned  or  fresh  mushrooms  to  taste  (optional) 

2  cups  boiled  shrimp,  deveined 
and  cut  in  half  lengthwise 

Salt 
Pepper 
Rice,  steamed 

Saute  vegetables  in  bacon  drippings.  Add  soup,  ketchup,  Worcestershire 
sauce,  water  and  crumbled  bacon,  bay  leaves  and  mushrooms.  Simmer  at 
least  10  minutes.  Add  shrimp.  Simmer  at  least  20  minutes.  Season  with  salt  and 
pepper  and  serve  with  steamed  rice.  Serves  6. 


SHRIMP  AND  MACARONI  SALAD 

(Fern  Grantham) 

IV2  pounds  elbow  macaroni 

2  pounds  shrimp,  cooked 

1  stalk  celery,  chopped 

1  onion,  chopped 

1  green  pepper,  chopped 

1  Tbsp.  Tabasco 

V2  bottle  catsup 

1  cup  mayonnaise 

1  lemon  (juice  only) 

Salt 

Pepper 

Cook  macaroni  and  mix  in  vegetables.  Mix  Tabasco,  catsup,  mayonnaise, 
lemon  juice,  salt  and  pepper.  Pour  over  macaroni-vegetable  mixture  and  mix 
well.  Refrigerate.  Makes  a  large  bowl  full. 


84 


LOBSTER  CANTONESE 

(Fern  Grantham) 

4  frozen  lobster  tails  1A  tsp.  salt 

Vz  pound  lean  pork  Dash  pepper 

1  Tbsp.  oil  4  Tbsp.  cornstarch 

6  scallions,  chopped  2  Tbsp.  soy  sauce 

1  carrot,  chopped  1A  cup  water 

1  stalk  celery,  chopped  1  can  bean  sprouts 

2  cups  chicken  stock 

Cook  lobster,  cool  and  remove  meat  and  cut  into  chunks.  Brown  cubes  of  pork 
in  oil  and  add  vegetables.  Cook  until  limp  but  not  brown.  Pour  in  stock  and  add 
salt  and  pepper.  Cover  and  cook  slowly  10  minutes.  Make  paste  of  cornstarch, 
soy  sauce  and  water.  Add  pork  mixture  and  cook  until  thickened.  Add  lobster 
and  drained  bean  sprouts.  Transfer  to  casserole  and  bake  20  minutes  at  350°  F. 

IRISH  PIGS  IN  BLANKET 

(Ruth  MacDonald) 


Large  oysters 

Pepper 

Thin  slices  breakfast  bacon 

Toothpicks 

Lemon 

Celery 

Melted  butter 

Toast 

Wash  and  dry  the  oysters.  Have  as  many  strips  of  bacon  as  oysters.  Place  a 
strip  of  bacon  lengthwiseon  your  left  hand,  lay  an  oyster  across  the  upper  end. 
Begin  to  roll  toward  the  tips  of  your  fingers.  When  theoyster  is  enclosed  in  the 
bacon,  skewer  the  latter  with  a  small  toothpick.  Sprinkle  with  pepper.  Dip  in 
melted  butter  and  broil.  Serve  on  hot  toast  with  celery,  and  garnish  the  platter 
with  lemon  and  the  white  leaves  of  the  celery. 

HOT  HATTERAS  OYSTERS  CASINO 

(Patti  Morgan) 

2  pints  fresh  shucked  oysters  1  tsp.  salt 

6  slices  bacon,  chopped  1  tsp.  Worcestershire  sauce 

V2  cup  chopped  onion  4  drops  Tabasco 

Va  cup  chopped  celery  Dash  pepper 

V»  cup  chopped  green  pepper  Buttered  toast  points 

2  tsp.  lemon  juice 

Drain  oysters.  Fry  bacon  until  partially  cooked.  Add  onion,  celery,  and  green 
pepper  and  cook  until  tender.  Add  lemon  juice  and  seasonings.  Arrange  oysters 
in  a  well-greased  shallow  baking  dish.  Spread  bacon  mixture  over  oysters.  Bake 
in  hot  oven  400°  F,  for  10  to  12  minutes  or  until  edges  of  oysters  begin  to  curl  and 
topping  is  brown.  Serve  with  toast  points.  Serves  6. 


85 


ESCALLOPED  OYSTERS 

(Cathey  Terry) 

1  cup  oysters 

Va  cup  butter  (or  salad  oil) 

2  Tbsp.  flour 
V«  tsp.  paprika 

Sprinkle  of  salt,  pepper  and  cayenne 

1  small  (or  medium)  onion,  chopped 

1A  cup  green  pepper 

1A  clove  garlic 

1  tsp.  lemon  juice 

1  tsp.  Worcestershire  sauce 

1A  cup  cracker  crumbs 

Heat  fat  until  hot,  then  take  from  burner  and  mix  in  flour,  stirring  until  smooth. 
Return  to  fire  and  cook  slowly  5  minutes  until  light  brown,  stirring  constantly. 
Add  paprika,  salt,  pepper  and  cayenne.  Take  pan  from  fire  and  add  onions, 
green  pepper,  garlic.  Cook  slowly  5  minutes  stirring.  Take  pan  from  fire  again; 
add  lemon  juice,  Worcestershire,  oysters  and  their  liquid. Stir  well.  Pour  into 
baking  dish,  sprinkle  with  crumbs  and  bake  in  400°  F  oven  30  minutes.  Serves  2 
(or  3). 


86 


^fegetabfes 


87 


VEGETABLES 

Index 

Asparagus  Casserole   89 

Crunchy  Asparagus  with  Dipping  Sauce   89 

Broccoli  Casserole    89 

Broccoli  Au  Gratin    90 

Broccoli  Casserole    90 

Dutch  Cabbage    90 

Cabbage  Pie  90 

Corn  Pudding  91 

Corn  Pudding  (Variation)    91 

Corn  for  Freezer    91 

Copper  Pennies  91 

Sweet  Potato  Pudding   92 

Sweet  Potato  Souffle    92 

Boston  Baked  Beans    92 

Baked  Beans 93 

Polish  Potato  Pancakes  93 

Rice  Dish  93 

Five  Can  Casserole 93 

Dutch  Green  Beans    94 

String  Bean  Casserole  94 

Katie's  Vegetable  Pie    95 

Italian  Eggplant  Casserole    95 

Stuffed  Onions  95 

Squash  Casserole   96 

Squash  Casserole   96 

Zucchini  Casserole  96 

Mushroom  Business  97 


88 


ASPARAGUS  CASSEROLE 

(Ruth  Oliver) 

2  small  cans  asparagus,  drained  4  hard  boiled  eggs,  sliced 

1  can  cream  of  mushroom  soup  1  cup  cracker  crumbs 

1  cup  grated  cheese 

Layer  ingredients  in  medium  casserole  in  the  following  order:  1  can  asparagus,  2 
sliced  eggs,  Vi  cup  cheese,  Vi  can  soup  (can  be  diluted  with  milk),  layer  of  Vz 
cracker  crumbs.  Repeat.  Bake  at  350° F  until  bubbly. 


CRUNCHY  ASPARAGUS  WITH  DIPPING  SAUCE 

(Gladys  Baker) 

V/i  lb.  fresh  asparagus  Vh  cup  water 

Water  for  cooking  1  Tbsp.  cornstarch 

4  Tbsp.  Worcestershire  sauce  1  Tbsp.  butter  or  margarine 

Wash  the  asparagus  under  cold  running  water.  Snap  off  the  tough  reedy 
bottoms  (it  is  not  necessary  to  peel  asparagus).  Stand  the  asparagus  heads  up 
in  a  tall  coffee  pot  and  add  two  inches  of  water ...  or  lay  the  asparagus  on  a  cake 
rack  in  a  large  skillet  that's  equipped  with  a  cover.  Add  water  to  the  bottom  of  the 
skillet,  but  not  touching  the  asparagus.  Steam  the  asparagus,  covered,  two  to  six 
minutes,  depending  on  thickness  of  stalk.  Don't  overcook.  Meanwhile,  prepare 
this  sauce: 

Mix  the  Worcestershire,  water  and  cornstarch  in  a  small  saucepan  over 
moderate  flame.  Cook  and  stir  until  mixture  simmers  and  thickens  slightly.  Add 
butter  and  stir  until  melted.  Pour  sauce  into  individual  dipping  bowls.  Serve  with 
hot  asparagus.  Serves  four. 


BROCCOLI  CASSEROLE 

(Grace  Kilkelly) 

Va  cup  onion,  chopped  2  Tbsp.  flour 

Va  cup  water  2  pkg.  frozen  chopped  broccoli 

1  8-oz.  Cheez-Whiz  2  eggs 

6  Tbsp.  margarine 

Saute  onion  in  butter  until  limp.  Remove  from  heat.  Stir  in  flour.  Make  paste.  Thin 
with  water.  Add  Cheez-Whiz  and  stir  until  melted  and  mixed  well  (thick  sauce). 
Add  eggs  to  raw  broccoli.  Mix  well.  Add  sauce  and  mix.  Bake  in  covered 
casserole  at  350° F.  for  1  hour  (until  set).  Last  few  minutes,  remove  cover. 
Sprinkle  with  bread  crumbs  and  brown. 


89 


BROCCOLI  AU  GRATIN 

(Rochelle  Strowd) 

1  10-ounce  package  frozen  broccoli  1A  cup  cheese,  grated 

1  10-ounce  can  cream  of  chicken  soup  1A  cup  bread  crumbs,  toasted 

Grease  1  quart  size  casserole.  Cook  broccoli  and  put  in  casserole.  Heat  soup 
and  spread  over  broccoli.  Spread  cheese  over  mixture,  also  bread  crumbs. 
Bake  until  cheese  has  melted  and  bread  crumbs  have  browned. 


BROCCOLI  CASSEROLE 

(Celia  Wade) 

2  packages  frozen  chopped  broccoli       1  cup  grated  sharp  cheddar  cheese 

1  can  mushroom  soup  Vi  cup  mayonnaise 

2  eggs,  beaten  2  Tbsp.  minced  onion 

Cook  broccoli  as  package  directs.  Mix  with  remaining  ingredients  and  place  in 
covered  baking  dish.  Cover  with  crushed  cheese  crackers.  Cover  baking  dish 
and  bake  in  350°  F  oven  for  one  hour  and  15  minutes. 


DUTCH  CABBAGE 

(Ruth  MacDonald) 

2  pounds  red  cabbage  1  tsp.  salt 

2  pounds  red  apples  V«  tsp.  white  pepper 

%  cup  water  2  Tbsp.  red  currant  jelly 

1A  cup  butter  1A  cup  vinegar 

Shred  the  cabbage  and  mix  with  the  apples  that  have  been  cored  but  not  pared 
and  cut  first  in  quarters,  then  across  into  thin  slices.  Cook  with  water  in  Dutch 
oven  over  low  heat  until  the  cabbage  is  quite  tender.  Add  butter,  salt,  pepper 
and  jelly  dissolved  in  the  vinegar.  Serve  hot. 


CABBAGE  PIE 

(Aldona  Pate) 

7  cups  shredded  cabbage  2  tsp.  salt 

16  saltines  %  tsp.  pepper 

2  cups  milk  1/3  tsp.  celery  seed 
V*  cup  margarine 

In  a  casserole  dish  layer  the  cabbage  and  crackers.  Heat  milk  with  margarine. 
Mix  seasonings  and  sprinkle  over  cabbage.  Pour  milk  mixture  over  top  of  the 
other  ingredients.  Bake  at  350°  F  for  30  minutes.  Serves  4-6  people. 


90 


CORN  PUDDING 

(Mrs.  S.  W.  Harris,  from  first  edition) 

1  cup  milk  2  Tbsp.  melted  butter 

2  Tbsp.  flour  1  tsp.  salt 

2  to  3  Tbsp.  sugar  (depends  on  taste)        2  cups  corn  (or  1  can) 
2  eggs 

Blend  sugar,  flour,  salt  and  butter.  Add  milk,  well-beaten  eggs  and  corn.  Pour 
into  well  greased  baking  dish.  Bake  until  firm  in  350°F  oven. 


CORN  PUDDING  (Variation) 

(Estelle  Terry) 

1  cup  milk  2  Tbsp.  butter,  melted 

2  Tbsp.  flour  or  corn  meal  1  tsp.  salt 

2  Tbsp.  sugar  1  can  cream  corn 

2  eggs  1  tsp.  vanilla  (optional) 

Blend  sugar,  flour,  salt  and  butter.  Add  milk.  Add  well-beaten  eggs  and  corn. 
Place  in  greased  baking  dish.  Preheat  oven  to  350°  F  and  cook  until  firm  and 
slightly  brown. 


CORN  FOR  FREEZER 

(Emma  Bocock) 

12  cups  corn  (cut  off  cob)  IV2  tsp.  non-iodized  salt 

1  stick  oleo  or  butter  IV2  cups  water 

3  tsp.  sugar 

Put  all  ingredients  in  heavy  weight  pan.  Let  come  to  a  boil.  Watch  carefully  to 
prevent  sticking  to  bottom  of  pan.  Cool  and  put  in  containers  and  freeze. 


COPPER  PENNIES 

(Rhonda  Swindell) 

2  pounds  cooked,  sliced  carrots  1/3  cup  oil 

(canned  carrots  work  fine)  1  Tbsp.  Worcestershire  sauce 

1  onion,  sliced  thinly  in  rings  V2  tsp.  salt 

1  bell  pepper,  thinly  sliced  1  tsp.  prepared  mustard 

2/3  cup  vinegar  1A  cup  sugar 
1  can  tomato  soup 

Mix  all  ingredients  and  refrigerate  overnight.  This  may  be  kept  in  refrigerator 
for  several  weeks.  Add  extra  carrots  as  needed. 


91 


SWEET  POTATO  PUDDING 

(Mrs.  W.  J.  Edwards,  from  first  edition) 

4  eggs  1A  cup  butter 

1  tsp.  nutmeg  1  cup  sugar 

1  tsp.  cinnamon  2  cups  milk 

1  quart  raw  sweet  potato,  grated  1A  tsp.  salt 

Beat  eggs  well  and  add  milk.  Mix  spices  and  sugar  with  grated  sweet  potato. 
Add  melted  butter  and  stir  in  milk  and  egg  mixture.  Pour  into  a  pudding  pan 
that  has  sides  and  bottom  well  greased.  Bake  one  hour  in  a  moderate  oven.  Stir 
occasionally  as  the  potato  browns  on  sides  and  top.  The  browned  potato 
throughout  the  pudding  gives  a  rich  nutty  flavor  and  texture.  Grated  lemon 
rind  may  be  used  for  flavoring.  Serve  the  pudding  plain,  with  a  sauce  or  with 
whipped  cream. 


SWEET  POTATO  SOUFFLE 

(Mary  Lib  Privette) 

3  cups  sweet  potatoes,  mashed  2  eggs 

1  cup  white  sugar  V2  cup  milk 

Va  tsp.  salt  1  tsp.  vanilla 
Vi  stick  margarine,  melted 

Mix  together  and  pour  into  buttered  baking  dish. 


Topping 

1/3  stick  margarine,  melted 
1  cup  coconut,  grated 


1  cup  brown  sugar 

1/3  cup  flour 

1  cup  pecans,  chopped 

Mix  together  and  sprinkle  over  souffle.  Bake  at  350°F  for  25  minutes. 


BOSTON  BAKED  BEANS 

(Linda  Chamblee) 


1  large  can  pork  and  beans 

(3  lb.,  4  oz.) 
3  Tbsp.  brown  sugar 
5  Tbsp.  molasses 
Va  tsp.  salt 
1A  tsp.  red  pepper 


1A  tsp.  black  pepper 

1  Tbsp.  minced  onion 

V2  tsp.  Worcestershire  sauce 

Va  tsp.  Durkees  dressing 

Several  shakes  of  Texas  Pete 

2/3  cup  catsup 


Mix  together  in  casserole  dish.  Top  with  hot  dogs,  bacon,  or  Vienna  sausage. 
Bake  1  hour  at  350° F.  Serve  hot. 


92 


BAKED  BEANS 

(Eunice  Wall) 

1  can  pork  and  beans  1  Tbsp.  vinegar 

1  Tbsp.  ketchup  1A  Tbsp.  mustard 

1  medium  onion,  sliced 

Mix  ingredients  together  with  strips  of  bacon  on  top.  Bake  in  350°F  oven  for  1 
hour. 

POLISH  POTATO  PANCAKES 

(Grace  Belcher) 

6  large  potatoes  1V«  tsp.  salt 

1/3  cup  flour  Vs  tsp.  pepper 

1  tsp.  baking  powder  1  Tbsp.  grated  onion 

2  eggs  1/3  cup  shortening 

Peel  potatoes  and  cover  with  water.  Sift  flour  and  baking  powder.  Beat  eggs 
slightly  with  fork;  add  salt,  pepper,  onion  and  flour.  Drain  potatoes  and  quickly 
grate  them  and  pack  into  measuring  cup.  Press  off  excess  liquid.  You  should 
come  out  with  21/2  cups  of  drained,  grated  potatoes.  Stir  potatoes  into  egg 
mixture  and  blend  thoroughly. 

Heat  shortening  in  skillet  until  medium  hot.  Put  heaping  tablespoonsful  of 
potato  mixture  into  hot  shortening.  Fry  3  or  4  cakes  at  a  time  to  a  crusty  brown, 
turning  to  brown  other  side.  Drain  on  paper  towel.  May  be  served  with  sour 
cream  or  apple  sauce.  Serves  4. 

RICE  DISH 

(Pauline  S tailings) 

%  stick  margarine  1  can  onion  soup 

1  1/3  cups  regular  rice,  uncooked  1  small  can  mushrooms,  drained 

1  can  beef  consomme 

Melt  margarine  in  baking  dish.  Add  other  ingredients,  stir,  cover.  Bake  at 
375°  F  for  45  minutes. 

FIVE  CAN  CASSEROLE 

(Mrs.  Edgar  B.  Fisher,  from  second  edition) 

1  can  French-style  string  beans  1  can  French  fried  onion  rings 

1  can  bean  sprouts  1  can  condensed  mushroom  soup 

1  can  water  chestnuts,  sliced 

Drain  beans,  sprouts  and  chestnuts  well.  Add  to  mushroom  soup.  Pour 
mixture  into  baking  dish  and  dot  with  butter.  Bake  at  350° F  about  Vi  hour. 
Spread  onion  rings  on  top  and  bake  another  10  minutes. 


93 


DUTCH  GREEN  BEANS 

(Ann  Dent) 

3  strips  bacon,  cooked  and  crumbled  1A  tsp.  salt 

1  small  onion,  sliced  1A  tsp.  dry  mustard 

1  can  water  chestnuts,  drained  1  Tbsp.  brown  sugar 

1  lb.  can  green  beans  1  Tbsp.  vinegar 

2  tsp.  corn  starch 

Brown  onion  and  chestnuts  in  bacon  grease.  Drain  beans  and  save  Vfecup  liquid. 
Mix  liquid  with  starch,  salt,  mustard,  sugar  and  vinegar  in  skillet.  Cook  until 
mixture  boils.  Add  green  beans  and  heat  through.  Put  crumbled  bacon  on  top 
and  serve. 

STRING  BEAN  CASSEROLE 

(Estelle  Terry) 

1  can  mushroom  or  celery  soup 

Va  cup  sweet  milk 

1  can  French  fried  onion  rings 

3  cups  string  beans,  cooked  and  drained 
Dash  of  salt  and  pepper 

Alternate  layers  of  string  beans  and  half  the  onions.  Mix  milk,  soup,  salt  and 
pepper  until  smooth  and  pour  over  ingredients.  Bake  at  350°  F  for  about  20 
minutes  or  until  bubbling.  Top  with  the  other  half  can  of  onion  rings.  Bake  5 
minutes  more. 


KATIES  VEGETABLE  CASSEROLE 

(Joy  Reed) 

2  1-pound  cans  French-style  green  beans 

1  1-pound  can  green  peas 

1  1-pound  can  midget  lima  beans 

1  can  water  chestnuts,  drained 

and  thinly  sliced 
Ritz  crackers,  crushed 
SAUCE: 

Vk  cups  mayonnaise 
1  tsp.  mustard 
1  tsp.  Worcestershire  sauce 
Vk  tsp.  lemon  juice 
1  onion,  grated 

Drain  all  vegetables  and  layer  in  21/2  quart  casserole  dish.  Add  sauce.  Top  with 
crushed  Ritz  crackers.  Cook  at  350° F  until  bubbly. 


94 


IMPOSSIBLE  VEGETABLE  PIE 

(Aldona  Pate) 

2  cups  chopped  fresh  broccoli  or  V/2  cup  milk 

cauliflower  (or  1  pkg.  frozen)  3A  cup  Bisquick 

V2  cup  chopped  onions  3  eggs 

V2  cup  chopped  green  peppers  1  tsp.  salt 

1  cup  shredded  Cheddar  cheese  1A  tsp.  pepper 

Heat  oven  to  400°  F.  Lightly  grease  a  10"  pie  plate.  Bring  1  cup  water  to  boil,  add 
V2  tsp.  salt  and  add  broccoli.  Cook  until  almost  tender,  about  5  min.  Drain.  Mix 
broccoli,  onion,  green  pepper  and  cheese  in  pie  plate.  Beat  remaining 
ingredients  until  smooth.  Pour  into  pie  plate  and  bake  until  golden  brown,  about 
35-40  min.  A  knife  will  come  out  clean.  Let  stand  for  5  minutes  before  serving. 


ITALIAN  EGGPLANT  CASSEROLE 

(Becky  Spivey) 

1  medium  eggplant 

1  8-ounce  can  tomato  sauce 

Parsley  flakes  to  taste 

Pepper  to  taste 

1  tsp.  oregano 

1  tsp.  garlic  salt 

1  onion,  minced 

8  ounces  mozzarella  cheese,  shredded 

72  cup  Parmesan  cheese,  grated 

Peel  eggplant  and  cut  into  half  in  slices.  Place  third  of  eggplant  slices  in  a 
greased  2  quart  casserole.  Pour  third  of  tomato  sauce  over  eggplant;  add 
parsley  flakes  and  pepper.  Sprinklewiththirdof  oregano,  garlicsalt,  onion  and 
mozzarella  cheese.  Repeat  layers,  ending  with  cheese.  Sprinkle  with  Parmesan 
cheese.  Bake  at  400° F  for  20  to  25  minutes.  Makes  6  servings. 

STUFFED  ONIONS 

(Mrs.  Edgar  B.  Fisher,  from  first  edition) 

6  onions  Salt 

1  cup  soft  bread  crumbs  Pepper 

Va  cup  nuts,  chopped  Butter 
Va  cup  cheese,  grated 

Boil  onions  until  nearly  tender  in  salted  water  and  drain.  Scoop  out  center. 
Chop  center  up  and  brown  in  butterto  a  light  brown.  Add  this  to  bread  crumbs, 
nuts  and  cheese  and  season  well  with  salt  and  pepper.  Fill  theonionswiththis 
mixture  and  dot  with  butter  and  bake  in  hot  oven  until  brown. 


95 


SQUASH  CASSEROLE 

(Anna  Corbett) 

2  pounds  squash,  sliced  1  can  chicken  soup,  undiluted 

1  small  onion,  chopped  1  cup  sour  cream 

Salt  and  pepper  to  taste  2  Tbsp.  pimento,  chopped  (optional) 

1  Tbsp.  butter,  melted  1A>  package  seasoned  stuffing  mix 
V2  cup  melted  butter 

Cook  squash  and  onion  in  small  amount  of  water.  Drain.  Season  with  salt, 
pepper  and  1  Tbsp.  butter.  Stir  in  soup,  sour  cream  and  pimento.  Combine  Vz 
cup  butter  and  stuffing  mix,  stirring  until  well  blended.  Combine  half  of 
stuffing  mixture  and  all  of  squash  mixture.  Put  into  a  2  quart  buttered 
casserole.  Put  remaining  stuffing  mix  on  top  and  bake  at  375°  F  for  30  minutes. 


SQUASH  CASSEROLE 

(Ellen  Thrift) 

4  cups  squash  1  tsp.  salt 

V«  cup  chopped  onion  Vs  tsp.  pepper 

3  Tbsp.  butter  1  egg 

1  cup  grated  mild  cheese  1  Tbsp.  Parmesan  cheese 

%  cup  milk  1  Tbsp.  cornflake  or  bread  crumbs 

Saute  onion  in  butter,  add  squash.  Cook  until  tender  and  nearly  dry,  add  cheese, 
milk,  and  slightly  beaten  egg,  salt  and  pepper.  Pour  into  buttered  Vh  quart 
casserole  dish,  sprinkle  with  Parmesan  cheese  and  cornflake  crumbs.  Bake  in 
preheated  oven  for  30  minutes  at  350°  F.  Serves  8. 


ZUCCHINI  CASSEROLE 

(Grace  Belcher) 

6  Tbsp.  butter 

4  small  or  3  medium  zucchini 

V2  cup  onion,  chopped 

%  cup  carrots,  shredded 

1  can  cream  of  chicken  soup 

1  can  evaporated  milk 

V2  cup  sour  cream 

IV2  cup  Pepperidge  Farm  herb  stuffing 

Quarter  and  slice  zucchini.  Shred  carrots  and  chop  onions.  Saute  carrots  and 
onions  in  butter.  Add  zucchini.  Saute  for  15  minutes.  Add  soup,  milk,  sour  cream 
and  stuffing.  Bake  1/2  hour  at  350°  F. 


96 


MUSHROOM  BUSINESS 

(Becky  Spivey) 

1  pound  fresh  mushrooms,  coarsely  sliced 
Butter 

V2  cup  celery,  chopped 

Va  cup  onion,  chopped 

Salt 

Pepper 

8  slices  white  bread 

2  eggs,  slightly  beaten  with 
IV2  cups  milk 

1  can  mushroom  soup,  undiluted 
Grated  cheese 

Saute  mushrooms  in  butter  with  celery,  onion  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 
Butter  3  slices  of  bread  and  cut  in  1  inch  squares.  Put  in  large  casserole  dish. 
Put  mushroom  mixture  on  squares.  Now  butter  3  more  slices  and  cut  into 
cubes  1  inch  size  and  place  on  top.  Pour  over  eggs  and  milk.  Refrigerate  at 
least  one  hour.  Just  before  baking,  spoon  on  mushroom  soup  and  add  2  more 
slices  of  buttered  bread  cut  in  somewhat  smaller  cubes.  Bake  at  300°  for  60-70 
minutes  or  at  325°F  for  50-60  minutes.  About  10  minutes  before  cooking  time 
is  up,  sprinkle  with  grated  cheese. 


97 


98 


Cakes 


99 


CAKES 

Index 

Apple-Nut  Cake    1 01 

Fresh  Apple  Cake    101 

Eva  Page's  Fresh  Apple  Cake    101 

Applesauce  Cake  1 02 

Jewish  Apple  Cake   1 02 

Apple  Coffee  Cake    102 

Hasty  Coffee  Cake    102 

Bible  Cake  103 

Caramel  Layer  Chocolate  Squares  103 

Winning  Cheesecake    104 

Cheese  Cake 1 04 

Little  Cheesecakes    105 

Chocolate  Cake   105 

Peter  Paul  Mound  Cake  105 

Wet  Chocolate    106 

Collector's  Cake  with  Mocha  Frosting  106 

Mississippi  Mud  Cake 107 

Coca-Cola  Cake 107 

Giny's  Carrot  Cake   1 08 

Fresh  Coconut  Cake 1 08 

Patsy's  Coconut  Cake    1 08 

Do  Nothing  Cake  109 

Hummingbird  Cake  109 

Apple  Pound  Cake    110 

Mrs.  House  &  Giny's  Pound  Cake    110 

Kentucky  Pound  Cake   110 

Pound  Cake 111 

Buttermilk  Pound  Cake    111 

State  Fair  Winner  Pound  Cake    112 

One-Step  Pound  Cake  112 

Mrs.  Hubert  Eddins'  Chocolate  Pound  Cake  112 

Brown  Sugar  Pound  Cake    113 

Brown  Sugar  Pound  Cake    113 

Toasted  Butter  Pecan  Cake    113 

Rum  Cake    114 

Vanilla  Wafer  Cake    114 

Cloud  Cake   114 

Yule  Log 115 

Pig  Pickin'  Cake  115 


100 


APPLE-NUT  CAKE 

(Lalla  Wilson) 

3  cups  plain  flour  3  eggs 

1  tsp.  baking  soda  1  tsp.  vanilla 

V«  tsp.  salt  V2  tsp.  almond  flavoring 

Vh  cup  oil  3  cups  apples,  chopped  fine 

2  cups  sugar  1  cup  chopped  nuts 

Sift  together  flour,  baking  soda  and  salt.  Mix  oil  with  sugar  and  eggs.  Beat  2to 

3  minutes.  Add  flour  mixture.  Add  apples  and  nuts.  Bake  at  350° F 
approximately  1  hour. 

Topping 
1  stick  margarine  1A  cup  evaporated  milk 

1  cup  brown  sugar  1  tsp.  vanilla 

Mix  ingredients  and  cook  over  low  heat,  stirring.  Boil  2  minutes.  Cool  slightly. 
Beat  3  to  4  minutes.  Spread  on  cake. 

FRESH  APPLE  CAKE 

(Grace  Moser) 

2  cups  white  sugar  1  tsp.  soda 
2  sticks  butter  or  margarine  1  tsp.  salt 

2  eggs  2  tsp.  cinnamon 

1  tsp.  vanilla  2  cups  peeled,  diced  apples 

2  cups  all  purpose  flour  1  cup  chopped  nuts 

Cream  together  the  sugar  and  butter.  Add  eggs  and  vanilla.  Sift  dry  ingredients 
and  stir  in.  Then  stir  in  the  apples  and  nuts.  Pour  into  greased  91/2x13  inch  pan. 
Bake  at  350°  F  for  40-50  minutes  or  until  done.  Cut  in  squares  to  serve. 


EVA  PAGES  FRESH  APPLE  CAKE 

(Margaret  Finch) 

2  cups  sugar  1  cup  nuts 

Vh  cup  Wesson  or  Mazola  oil  3  cups  plain  flour 

3  eggs  1  tsp.  soda 
3  cups  diced  apples  (peeled)  1  tsp.  salt 

winesap  or  Mcintosh  1  tsp.  vanilla 

Combine  sugar,  oil,  eggs,  vanilla;  then  add  nuts  and  apples.  Sift  dry  ingredients 
and  add  to  mixture.  Mix  well.  Pour  into  greased  and  floured  tube  pan.  Cook  at 
325°  F  about  1  hour,  5  minutes  or  until  straw  comes  out  clean.  (You  may  add 
coconut,  spices,  raisins  or  most  anything  you  wish  but  I  personally  like  the  cake 
with  just  apples  and  nuts.— E. P.  3/16/73) 


101 


APPLESAUCE  CAKE 

(Pattie  Veazey) 

IV2  cups  thick  unsweetened  1  tsp.  cinnamon 

applesauce  1  tsp.  nutmeg 

V2  cup  shortening  V2  tsp.  salt 

1  cup  sugar  2  cups  plain  flour 

1  cup  raisins  2  tsp.  soda 

V2  tsp.  cloves  V2  cup  nut  meats 

Put  shortening,  sugar  and  raisins  into  hot  applesauce.  When  cool,  add  dry 
ingredients  that  have  been  sifted  together.  Mix  well,  then  add  nut  meats.  Bake  at 
350°  F  about  2  hours.  (Dates  or  other  fruit  may  be  added  if  desired.) 

Note:  This  recipe  may  be  doubled  for  large  cake  with  success. 


JEWISH  APPLE  CAKE 

(Grace  Belcher) 

4  or  5  apples  (good  sized  ones),  sliced  1  cup  oil 

4  tsp.  sugar  3  cups  flour 

2  tsp.  cinnamon  3  tsp.  baking  powder 

2  cups  sugar  V2  cup  orange  juice 

4  eggs  %  tsp.  vanilla 

Sprinkle  apples  with  4  tsp.  sugar  and  2  tsp.  cinnamon  and  set  aside.  Beat  eggs. 
Gradually  beat  in  sugar,  then  oil.  Sift  flour  with  baking  powder,  add  salt.  Add  to 
mixture  in  small  amounts  alternating  with  orange  juice.  Beat  in  vanilla.  Pour  in 
greased  and  floured  tube  pan,  alternating  batter  with  apple  mixture,  ending 
with  batter.  Bake  at  350° F  for  60  minutes  or  until  done. 


APPLE  COFFEE  CAKE 

(Donna  Branoff) 

6  apples,  peeled  and  quartered  V2  tsp.  nutmeg 

2  cups  sugar  1  tsp.  cinnamon 

1  cup  Mazola  oil  1  tsp.  vanilla 

3  eggs  1  cup  raisins 

2  cups  flour  1  cup  walnuts 
1  tsp.  baking  soda 

Slice  apple  quarters  into  three  parts.  Cover  apples  with  sugar  and  let  stand  10 
minutes.  Mix  in  oil  and  eggs.  Add  flour,  soda  and  spices,  mixing  well.  Add 
raisins  and  nuts.  Pour  in  lightly  greased  9x13  inch  baking  pan  and  bake  at  350°  F 
for  55  minutes. 


102 


HASTY  COFFEE  CAKE 

(Barbara  Ail  Is) 

Ve  lb.  or  Va  stick  butter  1  beaten  egg 

%  cup  sugar  %  cup  milk 

1Va  cup  flour  1  tsp.  vanilla 
3  tsp.  baking  powder 

Mix  well  all  ingredients  and  spread  in  a  buttered  pan.  Melt  additional  V*  stick 
butter,  put  on  top.  Sprinkle  with  Vz  cup  sugar  and  1  tsp.  cinnamon.  Bake  at  325°  F 
for  15  to  20  minutes  or  until  done. 


BIBLE  CAKE 

(Grace  Belcher) 

Cream  together:  %  cup  Judges  5:25  (butter)  and  1  cup  Jeremiah  6:20  (sugar) 
Add:  2  Jeremiah  17:11  (eggs)  and  2  Tbsp.  I  Samuel  14:25  (honey) 
Sift  together:  21/4  cup  I  Kings  4:22  (flour),  1  tsp.  Leviticus  2:13  (salt) 

2  tsp.  II  Chronicles  9:9  (spices)*,  and  1  tsp.  Amos  4:5  (baking  powder) 
Add  alternately  with:  Vi  cup  Judges  4:10  (milk),  1  cup  I  Samuel  30:12  (raisins), 
1  cup  Nahum  3:12  (figs),  and  Vz  cup  Numbers  17:8  (almonds) 

Follow  Solomon's  prescription  for  making  a  good  boy,  Proverbs  23:14,  and 
you  will  have  a  good  cake.  Bake  in  large  angel  food  pan  in  slow  to  moderate 
oven  until  done. 

*V2  tsp.  cloves,  V2  tsp.  cinnamon,  1  tsp.  nutmeg 


CARAMEL  LAYER  CHOCOLATE  SQUARES 

(Martha  Plautz) 

1  14-ounce  package  light  caramels 

1/3  cup  evaporated  milk 

1  package  German  chocolate  cake  mix 

%  cup  margarine,  melted 

1/3  cup  evaporated  milk 

1  cup  chopped  nuts 

1  6-ounce  package  chocolate  chips 

Place  caramels  and  1/3  cup  milk  in  top  of  double  boiler.  Melt,  set  aside  and 
keep  warm.  Grease  9x13  in.  pan.  In  a  large  mixing  bowl  combine  cake  mix, 
margarine,  1/3  cup  milk  and  nuts.  Stir.  Put  half  mixture  in  pan.  Bake  at  350°F 
for  6  minutes.  Take  out  of  oven  and  sprinkle  with  chocolate  chips.  Spread  hot 
caramel  mixture  over  chips.  Crumble  remaining  cake  mixture  on  top.  Bake  20 
to  25  minutes.  Cool  to  set  caramel  layer.  Cut  into  squares. 


103 


WINNING  CHEESECAKE 

(Linda  Chamblee) 

Crust:  Filling: 

1  pkg.  Pepperidge  Farm  Bordeaux  4  8-oz.  pkg.  cream  cheese,  at 
cookies,  finely  crushed  room  temperature 

2  Tbsp.  melted  butter  2  cups  sugar 

6  eggs,  beaten 

2  tsp.  vanilla 

1  16-oz.  container  sour  cream 

To  make  crust:  Generously  grease  bottom  of  a  9"  round  springform  pan,  3 
inches  tall,  with  butter.  Leave  sides  ungreased.  Combine  cookie  crumbs  with 
melted  butter  and  pat  into  bottom  of  pan  only. 

To  make  filling:  Beat  cream  cheese  in  a  large  bowl  with  an  electric  mixer  on 
low  speed  or  with  a  wooden  spoon  until  soft  and  creamy.  Gradually  beat  in  sugar 
until  light  and  fluffy.  Add  beaten  eggs  one  at  a  time,  beating  well  after  each 
addition.  Add  vanilla  and  fold  in  sour  cream  until  well  blended.  Pour  into 
prepared  pan.  Bake  in  a  375°  F  oven  for  45  minutes;  turn  off  oven  and  let  cake 
cool  in  oven  for  one  hour.  Remove  from  oven  and  cool  to  room  temperature. 
Remove  form.  Refrigerate  at  least  eight  hours  before  serving.  Store  cake  in 
refrigerator. 

CHEESE  CAKE 

(Judi  Corke) 

Crust 
24-26  graham  crackers,  crushed  %  cup  butter,  melted 

Vi  cup  sugar 

Mix  ingredients  and  press  into  a  large  oblong  cake  pan.  Do  NOT  bake. 

Cake 
24  ounce  cream  cheese  V»  tsp.  salt 

1  cup  sugar  Vk  tsp.  vanilla 

5  eggs 

Add  sugar  to  cheese  and  cream  thoroughly.  Add  eggs  one  at  a  time,  beating 
well  after  each  addition.  Add  salt  and  vanilla.  Mix  well.  Pour  mixture  into 
prepared  pan  and  bake  1  hour  in  350° F  oven. 

Topping 
1  pint  sour  cream  1  tsp.  vanilla 

V2  cup  sugar 

Beat  ingredients  together.  Pour  over  baked  cake.  Return  to  350° F  oven  for  5 
minutes.  Cool  and  serve.  Excellent  served  plain.  Even  more  delicious  served 
with  fresh  or  frozen  strawberries  or  cherry  pie  filling  on  top. 


104 


LITTLE  CHEESECAKES 

(Polly  Dark) 

%  cup  sugar  1  tsp.  vanilla 

1  pound  cream  cheese,  soft  Vanilla  wafers 

1  Tbsp.  lemon  juice  Maraschino  cherries 

2  eggs 

Combine  first  5  ingredients  and  beat  at  high  speed  for  5  minutes.  Line  small 
(1 V2  in.)  cupcake  pans  with  paper  liners.  Put  one  vanilla  wafer  in  bottom  of  each 
liner  and  pour  about  1  Tbsp.  mixture  into  each  cup.  Bake  in  350°F  oven  for  15 
minutes  or  until  cracks  appear  on  top  of  each  cake.  Remove,  cool  and  top  with 
small  pieces  of  maraschino  cherries.  Yields  36. 


CHOCOLATE  CAKE 

(Grace  Belcher) 

1  box  brown  sugar  Vh  tsp.  baking  soda 

%  cup  cocoa  3  cups  flour 

%  cup  boiling  water  Vi  tsp.  salt 

%  cup  shortening  1  tsp.  vanilla 

Vk  cup  sour  milk 

Mix  sugar,  cocoa,  shortening  and  boiling  water.  Add  soda  to  milk.  Alternately 

add  flour  and  milk  to  sugar-cocoa  mixture.  Bake  in  12  x  9  or  13  x  9  in.  pan  at 

350° F  for  about  35  minutes.  Do  NOT  make  into  layer  cake.  Frost  with  favorite 

frosting. 


PETER  PAUL  MOUND  CAKE 

(Rhonda  Swindell) 

1  box  Duncan  Hines  devils  food  cake  mix 

1  cup  milk 

1  cup  sugar 

12  large  marshmallows 

1  pinch  salt 

1  pound  coconut 

Prepare  cake  as  directed  on  box  and  cool.  Filling:  Combine  milk,  sugar, 
marshmallows  and  salt.  Cook  5  minutes  until  completely  dissolved.  Add 
coconut  and  continue  cooking,  stirring  constantly  for  3  minutes.  Stack  cake 
putting  equal  amounts  of  filling  in  between  layers  and  on  top. 


105 


WET  CHOCOLATE 

(Janet  Eaton) 

2  cups  plain  flour  4  Tbsp.  cocoa 

2  cups  sugar  2  eggs 

1  cup  oil  1  tsp.  soda 

1  cup  water  Vi  cup  buttermilk 

1  stick  margarine 

Sift  flour  and  sugar  together  on  stove  into  heavy  pot.  Mix  oil,  water  and 

margarine  with  cocoa.  Boil  1  minute.  Add  to  sugar  and  flour  mixture.  Mix  well. 

Add  buttermilk,  eggs  and  soda.  Mix  well.  Pour  into  sheet  cake  pan.  Bake  40 

minutes  at  350° F. 

Icing 
4  Tbsp.  cocoa  1  tsp.  vanilla 

1  stick  margarine  1  box  confectioners  sugar 

4  to  6  Tbsp.  milk  (or  more  if  needed) 

Mix  all  ingredients  except  sugar.  Bring  to  boil  1  minute.  Add  sugar  and  pour 
over  warm  cake. 


COLLECTORS  CAKE  WITH  MOCHA  FROSTING 

(Mary Ann  Powell) 

%  cup  butter  or  margarine  %  cup  unsweetened  cocoa 

1%  cup  sugar  VU  tsp.  baking  soda 

2  eggs  V2  tsp.  salt 

1  tsp.  vanilla  1  1/3  cup  water 

2  cups  unsifted  all-purpose  flour 

Preheat  oven  to  350° F.  Grease  and  flour  two  8-  or  9-inch  layer  pans,  then  line 
with  greased  wax  paper.  Cream  butter  and  sugar  in  large  mixing  bowl.  Add  eggs 
and  vanilla;  beat  with  electric  mixer  for  1  min.  at  medium  speed.  Combine  flour, 
cocoa,  baking  soda  and  salt;  add  alternately  with  water  to  butter  mixture.  Pour 
batter  into  pans.  Bake  for  35-40  min.  Cool  10  min.;  invert  on  racks,  peel  off  wax 
paper.  Turn  right  side  up  and  frost. 

Frosting 
2/3  cup  sweet  butter  or  unsalted  3  cups  confectioners  sugar 

margarine  5-6  Tbsp.  strong  black  coffee,  cold 

1/3  cup  unsweetened  cocoa 

In  mixing  bowl,  cream  butter  with  cocoa  until  light  and  fluffy.  Alternately  add 
sugar  and  coffee;  beat  well.  Makes  enough  for  one  layer  cake. 


106 


MISSISSIPPI  MUD  CAKE 

(Debra  Whitley) 

2  cups  self-rising  flour  2  cups  sugar 

1  stick  butter  %  cup  oil 

2  heaping  Tbsp.  cocoa  1  cup  water 

Vi  cup  buttermilk  1  tsp.  baking  soda 

2  eggs  1  tsp.  vanilla 

Combine  sugar  and  flour  in  bowl.  In  another  saucepan  mix  butter,  oil,  cocoa  and 
water.  Bring  to  a  boil,  stirring  constantly.  Pour  over  flour  mixture  slowly. 
Combine  soda  and  buttermilk.  Add  this  and  other  ingredients  to  batter,  mix  well. 
Pour  into  greased  cake  pan.  Bake  at  400°  F  for  30  minutes. 

Icing 
1  stick  butter  1  cup  flaked  coconut 

6  Tbsp.  milk  1  cup  chopped  nuts 

1  tsp.  vanilla  3  Tbsp.  cocoa 

1  box  powdered  sugar 

In  pan  combine  butter,  cocoa  and  milk.  Bring  to  a  boil  stirring  constantly. 
Remove  from  heat  and  add  rest  of  ingredients.  Pour  over  hot  cake  and  chill. 


COCA-COLA  CAKE 

(Kay  Pulley,  Undine  Wheless) 

2  cup  flour  Vi  cup  buttermilk 

2  cups  sugar  2  beaten  eggs 

2  sticks  oleo  1  tsp.  soda 

3  Tbsp.  cocoa  1  tsp.  vanilla 

1  cup  Coca-Cola  Vk  cups  miniature  marshmallows 

Combine  sugar  and  flour  in  mixing  bowl.  Heat  oleo,  cocoa  and  Coca-Cola  to 
boiling  and  pour  over  flour-sugar  mixture,  mixing  thoroughly.  Add  buttermilk, 
eggs,  soda,  vanilla  and  marshmallows  and  mix  well.  This  will  be  a  thin  batter 
with  marshmallows  floating  on  top.  Bake  in  flat  pan  at  350° F  for  30  to  35 
minutes.  Ice  while  hot. 

Icing 
V2  cup  oleo  3  Tbsp.  cocoa 

6  Tbsp.  Coca-Cola  1  box  10-X  sugar 

1  cup  pecans  1  tsp.  vanilla 

Combine  oleo,  cocoa,  and  Coca-Cola  and  heat  to  boiling.  Pour  over  sugar. 
After  beating,  add  chopped  pecans  and  vanilla.  Spread  over  hot  cake. 


107 


GINY'S  CARROT  CAKE 

(Margaret  Finch) 

2  cups  raw  carrots,  shredded  or  1  tsp.  nutmeg 
put  in  blender  2  tsp.  cinnamon 

3  cups  flour  1  cup  chopped  nuts 
2  cups  sugar                                               4  eggs 

2  tsp.  baking  powder  IV2  cup  Wesson  Oil 

1  tsp.  soda  1  tsp.  vanilla 

1  tsp.  salt 

Mix  dry  ingredients,  add  eggs.  Then  add  Wesson  Oil  and  vanilla.  Bake  in  Angel 
Food  pan.  Bake  1  hour  at  325°  F  or  until  done. 


FRESH  COCONUT  CAKE 

(Bertha  Alford,  from  second  edition) 

2  sticks  oleo  %  cup  sweet  milk 

1%  cups  sugar  2V2  cups  self-rising  flour 

4  eggs  1  tsp.  vanilla 

Cream  oleo  and  sugar.  Add  eggs  one  at  a  time  and  beat  well.  Add  milk  and 
vanilla  and  flour  alternately,  beating  well.  Pour  in  greased  9-in.  cake  pans  and 
cook  at  375°  F  for  about  30  minutes.  Makes  3-layer  cake. 

Icing 
1  coconut,  grated  2  cups  sugar 

or  1  lb.  frozen  coconut  2V2  cups  sweet  milk 

Bring  sugar  and  milk  to  boil.  Add  coconut.  Let  this  mixture  come  to  a  good 
boil.  Cool  slightly.  Ice  cake. 


PATSY'S  COCONUT  CAKE 

(Celia  Wade) 

1  package  white  Duncan  Hines  2  cups  sugar 

cake  mix  1  cup  milk 

1  tsp.  vanilla  2  6-ounce  packages  frozen  coconut 

1A  cup  sugar  1  9-ounce  container  whipped 
11/3  cups  water  topping 

Mix  cake  mix,  vanilla,  V*  cup  sugar  and  water.  Pour  in  9  x  13  inch  baking  pan  and 
bake  for  40  minutes  at  350° F.  After  removing  completely  cooked  cake  from 
oven,  poke  holes  with  tines  of  fork  thoroughly  across  top.  Mix  2  cups  sugar,  1 
cup  milk  and  1  package  coconut  and  simmer  together  for  30  seconds.  Pour  hot 
mixture  over  top  of  punctured  cake.  Let  cool.  Spread  one  9  ounce  whipped 


108 


topping  on  top  of  cake.  Sprinkle  with  additional  6-ounce  package  of  frozen 
coconut  which  has  been  thawed.  You  can  store  in  refrigerator  for  one  week.  Can 
be  frozen  well. 


DO  NOTHING  CAKE 

(Dorothy  Morgan) 

2  cups  plain  flour  V2  tsp.  salt 

2  cups  sugar  1  tsp.  vanilla 

2  eggs,  beaten  1  large  can  crushed  pineapple 

1  tsp.  baking  soda 

Do  not  drain  pineapple.  Mix  all  ingredients  together  well  by  hand.  Pour  into  a 
13  x  9-inch  pan.  Bake  at  350°  for  25  or  40  minutes. 

Topping 
1  stick  margarine  1  cup  pecans,  chopped 

IV2  cups  sugar  1  cup  coconut 

2/3  cup  evaporated  milk 

Mix  above  ingredients  and  bring  to  a  boil  in  saucepan.  Boil  slowly  for  5 
minutes.  Add  chopped  pecans  and  coconut.  Pourtoppingovercakewhilehot. 
Cut  in  squares. 


HUMMINGBIRD  CAKE 

(Vicki  Rhodes) 

3  cups  all  purpose  flour  T/2  cup  Crisco  oil 

2  cups  sugar  IV2  tsp.  vanilla 

1  tsp.  salt  1  8-ounce  can  crushed 

1  tsp.  soda  pineapple  (undrained) 

1  tsp.  cinnamon  2  cups  chopped  pecans 

3  eggs,  beaten  2  cups  mashed  bananas 

Mix  all  dry  ingredients  well.  Add  eggs,  oil,  pineapple  and  bananas  and  mix 
well.  Bake  in  three  9  in.  pans  at  350° F  for  30  minutes. 

Icing 

2  8-ounce  packages  cream  cheese  2  boxes  confectioners  sugar 
1  cup  margarine  2  tsp.  vanilla 

Mix  margarine  and  cream  cheese  until  well  blended.  Add  sifted  sugar  and 
vanilla  and  beat  well.  Frost  cake  when  completely  cool. 


109 


APPLE  POUND  CAKE 

(Undine  Wheless) 

3  cups  flour,  unsifted  IV2  cup  Mazola  oil 

1  tsp.  salt  3  eggs 

2  cups  granulated  sugar  2  cups  apples,  finely  chopped 
2  tsp.  vanilla  1  cup  pecans,  chopped 

1  tsp.  soda 

Grease  and  flour  a  10  inch  Bundt  pan.  Thoroughly  stir  together  flour,  baking 
soda  and  salt.  In  large  bowl  at  medium  speed  beat  together  oil,  sugar,  eggs  and 
vanilla  until  combined.  Gradually  beat  in  flour  mixture  until  smooth.  Fold  in 
apples  and  pecans.  Bake  in  preheated  325°  F  oven  until  straw  inserted  in 
thickest  part  of  cake  comes  out  clean.  Place  in  pan  on  wire  rack  to  cool  for  20 
minutes.  About  5  minutes  before  cake  has  finished  cooling,  in  a  small  sauce 
pan  bring  to  boil  stirring  constantly: 
V2  cup  firmly  packed  light  brown  sugar 
V2  cup  butter 

2  tsp.  milk 

Boil  2  minutes.  Loosen  cake  edges  and  turn  out.  At  once  spoon  the  hot  glaze 
mixture  over  the  still  warm  cake,  allowing  it  to  run  down  the  sides.  Cool 
completely. 


MRS.  HOUSE  &  GINY'S  POUND  CAKE 

(Margaret  Finch) 

1  cup  butter  (2  sticks)  5  eggs 

1  2/3  cup  sugar  2  cups  plain  flour 

Cream  butter  and  sugar.  Add  eggs  one  at  a  time.  Add  flour  a  cup  at  a  time. 
Grease  pan  and  flour.  Put  waxed  paper  in  bottom  of  pan.  Bake  1  hour  and  30 
minutes  at  275° F.  Leave  in  pan  for  30  minutes  while  cooling. 


KENTUCKY  POUND  CAKE 

(Rhonda  Swindell) 

2V2  cups  self-rising  flour 
2  cups  sugar 
IV2  cup  Wesson  oil 
4  egg  yolks 

Mix  well  and  add  1  cup  crushed  pineapple  and  juice,  2  Tbsp.  hot  water,  2Tbsp. 
cinnamon  and  1  cup  chopped  nuts.  Fold  in  egg  whites  that  have  been  beaten 
stiff.  Bake  in  tube  or  Bundt  pan  at  350° F  for  1  hour. 


110 


POUND  CAKE 

(Frances  Massey) 

1  pound  creamery  butter  (4  sticks)  10  eggs 

31/2  cups  sugar  4  cups  Swans  Down  Cake  Flour 

Cream  together  butter  and  sugar  until  very  light  andf  fluffy.  (Cream  until  like 
whipped  cream,  about  20  to  30  minutes  on  high  speed  of  mixer.)  Then  turn  mixer 
to  low  speed  and  gradually  add  the  eggs  and  flour  alternately.  Add  2  Tbsp.  lemon 
juice  OR  1  tsp.  vanilla  last.  Grease  tube  pan  with  Mazola.  Bake  at  325°  for  1  hour. 
This  recipe  will  make  1  very  large  cake  or  2  small  ones.  If  baking  1  large  cake,  it 
may  take  longer  than  1  hour  to  cook. 

Variation:  May  use  almond  flavoring  in  place  of  lemon  or  vanilla. 

Note:  You  may  substitute  1  cup  of  Crisco  shortening  for  Vfe  pound  of  the  butter, 
using  half  butter  and  half  Crisco. 


BUTTERMILK  POUND  CAKE 

(Rochelle  Pulley) 

2  sticks  butter  Vs.  cup  Crisco 

3  cups  sugar  5  large  eggs 

%  cup  buttermilk  3  cups  plain  flour 

1  tsp.  baking  powder  1  tsp.  vanilla 

1  tsp.  lemon  extract 

Cream  butter  and  Crisco.  Add  sugaralittleatatimealongwith  eggs.  Alternate 
buttermilk  with  flour  sifted  with  baking  powder.  Add  vanilla  and  lemon  (or  any 
other  flavoring).  Grease  and  flour  tube  pan.  Put  in  cold  oven.  Bake  about  1 
hour  15  minutes  at  325-350°  F  until  done.  Wrap  in  tinfoil  while  real  warm.  Cut 
next  day  ...  if  you  can  wait. 


MODERN  POUND  CAKE 

(Rochelle  Strowd) 

Vi  pound  butter  or  margarine  3  cups  plain  flour,  unsifted 

Vi  cup  Crisco  %  tsp.  baking  powder 

3  cups  sugar  1  cup  milk 
5  eggs,  slightly  beaten 

Cream  butter  and  Crisco.  Add  sugar  slowly,  beating  well.  Add  eggs.  Add  sifted 
flour  and  baking  powder  alternately  with  milk  (make  3  or  4  additions).  Add  1 
tsp.  vanilla  and  Vz  tsp.  lemon  juice  or  flavor  to  suit  yourself.  Line  tube  pan  with 
greased  waxed  paper.  Put  in  cold  oven  at  300°  F.  Cook  until  done. 


in 


STATE  FAIR  WINNER  POUND  CAKE 

(Mrs.  M.  J.  Sexton) 

3  cups  plain  flour  sifted  3  times  1  Tbsp.  Crisco 

2V2  cups  sugar,  sifted  8  eggs 

3  sticks  butter  1  tsp.  vanilla 

Cream  butter,  Crisco,  and  sugar  well.  Add  one  egg  at  a  time,  beating  well 
after  each  addition.  Add  flour,  small  amount  at  a  time,  beating  well  after  each 
addition.  Add  vanilla.  Bake  in  pound  cake  pan  starting  at  225°  F  for  20  minutes, 
then  turn  to  300°  F  to  finish  the  hour.  Let  set  in  pan  until  cool.  Turn  out  on  rack. 


ONE-STEP  POUND  CAKE 

(Anna  Corbett) 

2Va  cups  all-purpose  flour 

2  cups  sugar 
V2  tsp.  soda 
%  tsp.  salt 

1  tsp.  lemon  peel 

1  tsp.  vanilla 

1  cup  butter  or  margarine,  softened 

1  cup  pineapple  yogurt  or  sour  cream 

3  eggs 

In  large  mixer  bowl  combine  all  ingredients.  Blend  at  low  speed.  Beat  3 
minutes  at  medium  speed  scraping  bowl  occasionally.  Pour  batter  into 
greased  and  floured  tube  pan.  Bake  at  325° F  for  60-65  minutes  until  top 
springs  back  when  touched  lightly  in  center.  Cool  15  minutes.  Remove  from 
pan.  Cool  completely.  Drizzle  with  glaze  made  of  1  cup  powdered  sugar  and  2 
Tbsp.  lemon  juice  beaten  until  smooth. 


MRS.  HUBERT  EDDINS'  CHOCOLATE  POUND  CAKE 

(Margaret  Finch) 

1  cup  butter  (2  sticks)  5  eggs 

%  cup  Crisco  1  cup  sweet  milk 

3  cups  sugar  1  tsp.  baking  powder 

4  Tbsp.  cocoa  (rounded)  1  tsp.  vanilla 
3  cups  plain  flour  1A  tsp.  salt 

Cream  butter  and  Crisco.  Add  sugar  gradually.  Add  one  egg  at  a  time  and  beat 
well.  Mix  cocoa,  flour  and  baking  powder.  Sift  three  times  and  add  to  first  mixture 
alternately  with  milk.  Cook  at  325°  F  for  about  one  hour. 


112 


BROWN  SUGAR  POUND  CAKE 

(Mary  Kay  Grogan) 

1  pound  box  light  brown  sugar  3  cups  cake  flour 

1  cup  white  granulated  sugar  Vi  tsp.  salt 

Vk  cups  shortening  (or  2  sticks  1  Tbsp.  vanilla 

margarine  &  %  cup  Crlsco)  1  cup  sweet  milk 

5  eggs  1  cup  black  walnuts 

Cream  sugars  and  shortening.  Add  eggs  one  at  a  time.  Add  flour,  salt,  vanilla  and 
milk.  When  well  mixed  add  walnuts.  Bake  in  tube  pan  one  hour  and  15  minutes  at 
350°  F. 

BROWN  SUGAR  POUND  CAKE 

(Patricia  Griswold) 

1  pound  light  or  dark  brown  sugar  Vz  tsp.  baking  powder 

2  sticks  margarine  V*  tsp.  salt 
V2  cup  shortening  1  cup  milk 

5  eggs,  beaten  1  tsp.  vanilla 

3  cups  plain  flour  1  cup  pecans  (optional) 

Cream  sugar,  margarine  and  shortening.  Add  eggs.  Add  dry  ingredients  alter- 
nately with  milk  to  which  vanilla  has  been  added.  Add  pecans.  Bake  at  325°  F  for 
"IV2  hours  in  a  tube  pan. 

TOASTED  BUTTER  PECAN  CAKE 

(Vicki  Rhodes) 

3  Tbsp.  margarine  2  eggs 

1  1/3  cups  pecans,  chopped  2  cups  all  purpose  flour,  sifted 

3A  cup  margarine  2  tsp.  baking  powder 

1  1/3  cups  sugar  V*  tsp.  salt 

IV2  tsp.  vanilla  2/3  cup  milk 

Dot  3  Tbsp.  margarine  over  pecans  in  shallow  pan.  Toast  in  350°F  oven  for  15 
minutes,  stirring  occasionally.  Cream  %  cup  margarine;  add  sugar  gradually, 
creaming  until  light.  Add  vanilla.  Add  eggs  one  at  a  time,  beating  well  after 
each  addition.  Sift  together  dry  ingredients  and  add  to  creamed  mixture  alter- 
nately with  milk,  beating  well  after  each  addition.  Fold  in  1  cup  of  toasted 
pecans.  Bake  in  2  greased  and  lightly  floured  9  in.  cake  pans  at  350°  F  for  30-35 
minutes.  Cool  completely.  Frost  with  butter  pecan  icing. 

Icing 

4  Tbsp.  margarine,  softened  3  Tbsp.  milk 
3  cups  confectioners  sugar,  sifted  1  tsp.  vanilla 

Mix  until  smooth.  Stir  in  remaining  pecans.  Mix  well.  Frost  tops  and  sides. 


113 


RUM  CAKE 

(Mary Ann  Powell) 

1  cup  chopped  pecans  or  walnuts  4  eggs 

1  I8V2-0Z.  pkg.  yellow  cake  mix  V2  cup  cold  water 

1  33A-oz.  pkg.  instant  V2  cup  Wesson  Oil 

vanilla  pudding  mix  V2  cup  Bacardi  dark  rum 

Preheat  oven  to  325° F.  Grease  and  flour  a  10-in.  tube  or  12-cup  Bundt  pan. 
Sprinkle  nuts  over  the  bottom  of  pan.  Mix  all  cake  ingredients  together.  Pour 
batter  over  nuts  in  pan.  Bake  one  hour.  Set  on  rack  to  cool. Invert  on  serving 
plate.  Prick  top.  Drizzle  and  brush  glaze  evenly  over  top  and  sides. 

Glaze 
V*  lb.  butter  1  cup  granulated  sugar 

V»  cup  water  V2  cup  Bacardi  dark  rum 

Melt  butter  in  saucepan.  Stir  in  water  and  sugar.  Boil  5  min.,  stirring  constantly. 
Stir  in  rum.  Remove  from  heat.  (NOTE:  This  glaze  recipe  can  be  cut  in  half.) 


VANILLA  WAFER  CAKE 

(Mary  Lib  Privette) 

1  box  (12  oz.)  vanilla  wafer  crumbs 

2  cups  sugar 

6  eggs 

2  sticks  (1  cup)  butter  or  margarine,  softened 
1  cup  nuts,  chopped 

7  ounce  flaked  coconut 
1  tsp.  vanilla 

V2  cup  milk 

V2  tsp.  baking  powder 

Cream  butter  and  sugar.  Add  eggs  one  at  a  time.  Fold  in  crumbs,  nuts  and 
coconut.  Pour  into  well-greased  10  in.  tube  pan.  Bake  at  350° F  for  1  hour. 


CLOUD  CAKE 

(Celia  Wade) 

1  Angel  Food  cake  1  large  can  crushed  pineapple 

1  large  package  of  instant  1  large  container  whipped  topping 

vanilla  pudding 

Crumble  or  cut  cake  into  bite  size  bits.  Mix  pudding  as  package  directs.  Layer 
bits  of  cake,  pudding  and  pineapple  in  tube  pan.  Refrigerate  until  set.  Unmold 
and  ice  with  whipped  topping.  Keep  in  refrigerator. 


114 


YULE  LOG 

(Fern  Grantham) 

5  eggs,  separated  4  Tbsp.  cocoa 

1  cup  powdered  sugar  1  small  carton  whipped  topping 

Grease  9  x  13  in.  pan.  Line  with  wax  paper,  then  grease  and  flour  paper.  Beat 
egg  whites  until  stiff.  Beat  yolks  till  light  and  thick.  Sift  cocoa  with  sugar  and 
beat  into  yolks.  Gently  fold  in  egg  whites.  Pour  into  pan  and  bake  at  350° F 
about  20  minutes.  Dust  a  tea  towel  heavily  with  powdered  sugar.  Remove  cake 
from  oven  and  invert  on  sugared  towel.  Tear  off  paper  gently.  Roll  cake 
lengthwise  in  towel.  When  cool,  unroll  and  spread  with  whipped  topping.  Roll 
back  up.  Frost  outside  and  draw  tines  of  fork  to  make  bark.  (There  is  no  flour  in 
this  cake  although  3  to  4  Tbsp.  can  be  added). 

Icing 
1A  cup  margarine  Sprinkle  of  cinnamon 

2  cups  powdered  sugar  2  to  3  Tbsp.  milk 

3  Tbsp.  cocoa  Vz  tsp.  vanilla 

Cream  margarine,  sugar,  cocoa  and  cinnamon  together.  Add  milk  and  vanilla. 
Beat  until  creamy. 


PIG  PICKIN'  CAKE 

(Rita  Bocock) 

1  box  Duncan  Hines  Butter  4  eggs 

Recipe  Golden  Cake  Mix  1  11 -oz.  can  mandarin  oranges  and 

V2  cup  oil  juice,  chopped 

Mix  all  ingredients  and  bake  at  325° F  for  20  to  25  minutes.  Don't  overcook. 
Makes  3  layers. 

Icing 
1  3-oz.  pkg.  instant  vanilla  pudding  1  large  can  crushed  pineapple 

9  oz.  Cool  Whip 

Mix  pudding  and  pineapple  and  blend  in  Cool  Whip.  Keep  in  refrigerator. 


115 


116 


9i 


tes 


117 


PIES 
Index 

Apple  Pie    119 

Apple  Pie   119 

Best  Ever  Pie  Crust  119 

Sour  Cream  Apple  Pie  Crust    119 

Sour  Cream  Apple  Pie  120 

Transparant  Pie    1 20 

Individual  Chess  Pie  120 

Chess  Pie  1 20 

Chocolate  Chess  Pie    121 

Chocolate  Chess  Pie    121 

Chocolate  Chess  Pie    1 21 

Myrna's  Chocolate  Chess  Pie    1 21 

Chocolate  Pie  121 

Chocolate  Pecan  Pie    122 

Pecan  Pie  1 22 

Pecan  Pie  122 

Pecan  Pie  122 

Pecan  Pie  123 

Pecan  Tarts   1 23 

Buttermilk  Pie   123 

Lemon  Meringue  Pie 1 24 

Pumpkin  Pie    124 

Sweet  Potato  Pie  with  Spices 125 

Sweet  Potato  Pie   125 

Sweet  Potato  Pie   1 25 

Easy  Custard  Pie  126 

Coconut  Pie    1 26 

Impossible  Pie    126 

Coconut  Pineapple  Pie    126 

Japanese  Fruit  Pie 126 

Japanese  Fruit  Pie 127 

Hawaiian  Fruit  Pies   1 27 

Silly  Pie    127 

Strawberry  Cream  Pie    1 28 

Orange  Pie 128 


118 


APPLE  PIE 

(Mrs.  E.  G.  Cothran,  from  first  edition) 

2  Tbsp.  butter  1  tsp.  cinnamon 

3  Tbsp.  flour  V*  tsp.  nutmeg 

Va  tsp.  salt  6  or  8  tart  apples 

%  cup  sugar 

Pare,  core  and  slice  apples.  Line  a  pie  plate  with  pastry,  allowing  pastry  to 
extend  Vi  in.  over  the  plate.  Fill  with  sliced  apples,  then  sprinkle  over  them  the 
dry  ingredients  which  have  been  mixed  together.  Dot  with  butter.  Fold 
extended  half  inch  of  crust  inward  forming  a  pocket  to  hold  in  juices.  Place  on 
upper  crust  and  press  edges  firmly.  Slash  top  crust  to  allow  escape  of  steam. 
Brush  pie  with  a  little  milk  or  cream.  Bake  in  450°F  oven  for  10-15  minutes, 
until  edge  begins  to  brown.  Reduce  temperature  and  bake  45  minutes  longer. 


APPLE  PIE 

(Emma  Bocock) 

%  cup  sugar  1  beaten  egg 

2  Tbsp.  flour  y2  tsp.  vanilla 

1  cup  sour  cream  Vs  tsp.  salt 

2  cups  chopped  apples 

Combine  and  put  in  pie  shell.  Bake  at  425°  F  for  15  minutes.  Add  topping  and 
bake  at  350°  for  30-35  minutes. 

Topping 

3  Tbsp.  brown  sugar  V»  cup  butter 

3  Tbsp.  white  sugar  1  tsp.  cinnamon 

1/3  cup  flour 

Mix  well. 


BEST  EVER  PIE  CRUST 

(Emma  Bocock) 

41/2  cups  flour 

2  cups  lard  or  1%  cups  shortening 

1  tsp.  baking  powder 

1  egg  beaten  with 

1  Tbsp.  vinegar 

Add  enough  water  to  make  one  cup 

Mix  in  order  given.  This  recipe  makes  3  double  crusts  or  6  single. 


119 


SOUR  CREAM  APPLE  PIE 

(Ruth  MacDonald) 

1  cup  sour  cream  1  tsp.  cinnamon 

1  cup  granulated  sugar  Cooking  apples 

Line  an  unbaked  crust  with  sliced  apples.  Mix  sour  cream,  sugar  and  spice  and 
pour  over  apples.  Bake  at  425° F  until  the  apples  are  soft. 


TRANSPARENT  PIE 

(Mrs.  Charles  E.  Flowers,  from  first  edition) 

V*  pound  butter  V%  Tbsp.  cream 

4  eggs  Vi  Tbsp.  vinegar 

2  cups  sugar  1A  tsp.  vanilla 
Vz  Tbsp.  flour 

Cream  sugar  and  butter  with  flour  thoroughly.  Add  2  whole  eggs  at  a  time  and 
beat  well.  Add  cream,  vanilla  and  vinegar  last.  Pour  in  uncooked  pie  crust.  Cook 
with  slow  heat.  This  amount  will  make  two  large  pies  or  16  small  party  size. 


INDIVIDUAL  CHESS  PIES 

(Mrs.  Ben  F.  Boone,  from  first  edition) 

%  cup  butter  4  eggs 

2  cups  sugar  1  tsp.  vanilla 

1  Tbsp.  meal 

Cream  butter,  sugar  and  meal.  Add  eggs  and  vanilla.  Bake  in  individual  crusts. 


CHESS  PIE 

(Patricia  Griswold) 

Vi  cup  butter  1  Tbsp.  vanilla 

Vk  cup  sugar  1  Tbsp.  corn  meal 

3  eggs  1  unbaked  pie  crust 
Vk  tsp.  vinegar 

Cream  butter  and  sugar.  Beat  corn  meal  into  mixture.  Beat  eggs  in  one  at  a  time. 
Beat  thoroughly.  Bake  in  unbaked  pie  crust  at  300°  F  for  30  minutes  or  until  pie  is 
set  in  the  center. 


120 


CHOCOLATE  CHESS  PIE 

(Grace  Moser) 

2  eggs  VU  cup  sugar 

2  squares  bitter  chocolates  V*  cup  warm  milk 

1  stick  butter  1  tsp.  vanilla 

Melt  chocolate  and  butter.  Add  other  ingredients.  Mix  well  and  pour  in  unbaked 
pie  shell.  Bake  at  350°  F  for  40  minutes. 


CHOCOLATE  CHESS  PIE 

(Linda  Chamblee) 

1  square  unsweetened  chocolate  2  eggs 

Va  cup  butter  Dash  salt 

1  cup  sugar  1  tsp.  vanilla 

Melt  chocolate  and  butter.  Add  sugar  and  egg,  salt  and  vanilla.  Pour  into  an 
unbaked  pie  shell.  Bake  at  350° F  for  25-30  minutes  or  until  done. 


CHOCOLATE  CHESS  PIE 

(Vicki  Rhodes) 

IV2  cups  sugar  3  Tbsp.  cocoa 

1  can  milk  (small)  2  eggs,  beaten 

V2  stick  margarine,  melted  1  tsp.  vanilla 

Mix  sugar  with  cocoa.  Add  milk,  eggs  and  margarine.  Beat  well.  Add  vanilla. 
Pour  into  pie  shell.  Bake  45  minutes  at  350° F. 


MYRNA'S  CHOCOLATE  CHESS  PIE 

(Susie  Roberson) 

72  cup  butter  2  eggs 

IV2  squares  unsweetened  chocolate  1  Tbsp.  milk 

1  cup  brown  sugar  1  Tbsp.  flour 

V2  cup  granulated  sugar  1  tsp.  vanilla 

Melt  butter  and  chocolate  over  low  heat.  Mix  all  other  ingredients  well.  Slowly 
add  chocolate  mix.  Pour  into  unbaked  piecrust.  Bake  40-45  minutes  at  325°  F. 


121 


CHOCOLATE  PIE 

(Sarah  Tant) 


%  cup  sugar 

1A  cup  flour  or  corn  starch 


IV2  Tbsp.  cocoa 
Ve  tsp.  salt 


Mix  above  ingredients  well.  Add  3  egg  yolks  and  2  cups  milk.  Cook  until  thick, 
stirring  constantly.  Add  1  tsp.  vanilla,  2  Tbsp.  butter.  Pour  into  baked  9  inch  pie 
shell.  Cover  with  meringue.  Place  in  oven  at  325° F  until  brown. 

Meringue 

Beat  3  egg  whites  until  foamy.  Add  Vi  cup  sugar  and  V2  tsp.  cream  of  tartar.  Beat 
until  stiff. 


CHOCOLATE  PECAN  PIE 

(Vicki  Rhodes) 

3  cups  sugar  4  eggs 

72  cup  cocoa  Pinch  of  salt 

1  tsp.  vanilla  1  cup  coconut 

2  cups  pecans  1  can  milk  (tall) 
1  stick  margarine  2  pie  shells 

Mix  first  9  ingredients  well.  Bake  in  pie  shell  1  hour  at  350°  F.  Makes  2  pies. 


PECAN  PIE 

(Betsy  Green) 


3  eggs,  slightly  beaten 

1  cup  sugar 

V*  cup  margarine,  melted 


Va  cup  corn  syrup 
1  cup  pecans 


Add  all  ingredients  to  beaten  eggs.  Pour  into  slightly  baked  pie  shell.  Bake  for 
35-40  minutes  at  375°  F. 


PECAN  PIE 

(Mrs.  Donald  Stallings,  from  first  edition) 


2/3  cup  pecans 

1  cup  sugar 

1  cup  Karo  syrup  (white) 


3  eggs,  beaten 
1  lump  butter 
Vanilla 


Mix  together  and  cook  in  unbaked  pie  shell. 


122 


PECAN  PIE 

(Louise  Gaddy) 

Vi  cup  butter  1  cup  pecans,  chopped 

3  eggs,  slightly  beaten  1  cup  sugar 

1A  tsp.  salt  %  cup  Karo  syrup  (light  or  dark) 

1  tsp.  vanilla  1  Tbsp.  flour  (optional) 

Cream  butter,  add  sugar  gradually  and  continue  creaming  until  light  and  fluffy. 
Add  remaining  ingredients  and  blend  well.  Pour  into  unbaked  9  inch  pie  shell 
and  bake  at  375°  40  to  45  minutes,  until  silver  knife  pierced  in  it  comes  out 
clean. 


PECAN  TARTS 

(Ruth  Oliver) 

3-ounce  package  cream  cheese  1  cup  flour 

V2  cup  margarine 

Mix  cheese  and  margarine.  Stir  in  flour.  Chill  for  one  hour.  Shape  into  24 1-inch 
balls.  Place  in  tiny  muffin  tins  and  press  against  sides. 

Filling 
1  egg  1  tsp.  vanilla 

%  cup  brown  sugar  Dash  salt 

1  Tbsp.  butter  (not  margarine)  2/3  cup  chopped  pecans 

Beat  egg,  butter,  sugar,  vanilla  and  salt.  (Divide  nuts  in  half.)  Sprinkle  Vi  nuts  on 
crusts.  Pour  egg  mixture  into  crusts.  Top  with  remaining  nuts.  Bake  at  325°  F  for 
25  minutes. 


BUTTERMILK  PIE 

(Ruth  MacDonald) 

1  cup  sugar  2  cup  fresh  buttermilk 

4  Tbsp.  flour  1  Tbsp.  butter 

1  egg  1  Tbsp.  lemon  extract 
3  egg  yolks 

Sift  together  sugar  and  flour.  Add  whole  egg  beaten  well  with  egg  yolks.  Add 
buttermilk.  Stir  and  cook  in  sauce  pan  until  thick  and  creamy.  Remove  from 
fire;  add  butter  and  lemon  extract.  Cool  slightly  and  pour  into  baked  pie  shell. 
Cover  with  meringue. 

Meringue:  Use  1/3  cup  sugar  for  the  3  egg  whites.  Beat  until  very  stiff.  Spread 
evenly  over  pie  and  brown  in  hot  oven. 


123 


LEMON  MERINGUE  PIE 

(Gladys  Hinton) 

V2  cup  cornstarch 
IV2  cups  sugar 
V«  tsp.  salt 
1%  cups  hot  water 
3  egg  yolks,  beaten 

2  Tbsp.  butter 

1/3  cup  lemon  juice 
1  tsp.  lemon  rind 

3  egg  whites 

V*  tsp.  Cream  of  Tartar 
6  Tbsp.  sugar 
1  baked  pie  shell 

Blend  cornstarch,  sugar  and  salt  in  top  of  double  boiler.  Stir  in  water  gradually. 
Cook  over  medium  heat,  stirring  constantly  until  mixture  boils.  Stir  half  of 
mixture  into  eggs.  Add  to  mixture  in  saucepan.  Cook  over  hot  water  until  thick, 
3  to  5  minutes.  Add  butter,  lemon  juice  and  rind.  Beat  egg  whites  until  thick 
with  cream  of  tartar.  Add  sugar  1  Tbsp.  at  a  time  until  thick  and  not  sugary. 
Pour  filling  into  baked  pie  shell,  cover  with  meringue  and  bake  at  350°F  15-20 
minutes.  Cool. 


PUMPKIN  PIE 

(Becky  Spivey) 

1  pie  shell,  unbaked 

IV2  cups  hot  pumpkin 

V2  stick  butter 

%  cup  sugar 

Dash  salt 

%  cup  miniature  marshmallows 

Vi  tsp.  vanilla 

1  tsp.  rum  flavoring 
Ve  tsp.  nutmeg 

Vs  tsp.  cinnamon 

2  eggs,  well  beaten 

Mix  pumpkin,  butter,  sugar  and  salt  with  marshmallows.  Add  flavorings  and 
spices.  Mix  well  and  add  eggs.  Pour  into  pie  shell  and  bake  on  middle  rack  of 
oven  at  350° F  for  50-60  minutes. 


124 


SWEET  POTATO  PIE  WITH  SPICES 

(Georgie  Carmichael) 

2  cups  cooked  and  mashed  sweet  potatoes 
%  cup  sugar 

V2  tsp.  salt 
1  tsp.  cinnamon 
V2  to  1  tsp.  ginger 
V*  to  V2  tsp.  nutmeg 
V»  to  V2  tsp.  cloves 

3  slightly  beaten  eggs 
IV2  cups  milk 

1  deep  dish  9-inch  pie  shell,  unbaked 

Combine  potatoes,  sugar  and  other  spices  along  with  milk  and  eggs  well.  Pour 
into  pie  shell  and  bake  at  400°  F  for  40  to  50  minutes.  When  crust  is  deep  warm 
brown  and  knife  inserted  halfway  to  middle  of  pie  comes  out  clean,  pie  is  done. 


SWEET  POTATO  PIE 

(Sarah  Eaton,  Mrs.  M.  J.  Sexton) 

1  cup  granulated  sugar 

1  stick  margarine  (melted) 

2  Tbsp.  sweet  milk 
2  eggs 

1  cup  potatoes  (mashed  very  fine) 
1  tsp.  vanilla 

Cream  sugar  and  potatoes  until  light  and  fluffy.  Add  eggs  and  whip  by  hand. 
Add  sweet  milk  and  vanilla  and  then  margarine.  Whip  thoroughly.  Pour  in  9- 
inch  pie  crust  and  bake  at  350° F  for  1  hour. 


SWEET  POTATO  PIE 

(Linda  Chamblee) 

3  medium  sweet  potatoes  V*  tsp.  salt 

1  cup  brown  sugar  V*  cup  butter 

V2  tsp.  nutmeg  3  eggs,  beaten 

V2  tsp.  cinnamon  2/3  cup  milk 

V2  tsp.  ginger  V2  tsp.  vanilla 

Boil  sweet  potatoes.  Cool  and  peel  them.  Blend  all  ingredients  together  with 
electric  mixer  until  smooth.  (Check  beaters  for  strings).  Pile  up  batter  in 
unbaked  pie  shell  (will  shrink).  Bake  at  350°  for  1  hour. 


125 


EASY  CUSTARD  PIE 

(Estelle  Terry) 

2  eggs  Nutmeg 

Va  cup  sugar  Cinnamon 

1A  tsp.  salt  Pastry  pie  shell 

IV2  cups  milk 

Beat  eggs  slightly.  Add  sugar,  salt  and  milk.  Use  deep-pie  pan.  Brush  shell  with 
melted  shortening.  Pour  in  custard  filling.  Sprinkle  with  nutmeg  and 
cinnamon.  Bake  at  350° F  for  30-35  minutes  or  until  done. 


COCONUT  PIE 

(Carol  Weeks) 

IV2  cups  sugar  IV2  tsp.  vanilla 

1  can  Angel  Flake  coconut  (large  size)        1  tsp.  vinegar 
3  large  eggs  1  stick  butter,  melted 

Blend  eggs  and  sugar  with  fork.  Add  remaining  ingredients.  Bake  at  350°  F  for 
1  hour. 


IMPOSSIBLE  PIE 

(Dorothy  Morgan) 

4  eggs  V2  stick  margarine  (melted) 

1%  cups  sugar  1  tsp.  vanilla 

V2  cup  flour  1  7-oz.  can  Baker's  coconut 
2  cups  milk 

Beat  eggs  and  sugar  well;  add  remaining  ingredients  and  mix  well.  Pour 

mixture  into  3  tin  pie  plates  that  have  been  greased  with  margarine.  Bake  in 
350°  F  oven  for  30  minutes. 


COCONUT  PINEAPPLE  PIE 

(Susie  Roberson) 

4  eggs  V*  tsp.  salt 

IV2  cups  sugar  1  small  can  (31/2  oz.)  Angel  Flake 

1  small  can  crushed  pineapple  coconut 

1  stick  margarine  2  9-inch  unbaked  pie  shells 

Beat  eggs.  Add  sugar,  salt  and  margarine.  Beat  well.   Fold  in  pineapple  and 
coconut.  Pour  into  pie  shells  and  bake  at  350° F  for  35  to  45  minutes. 


126 


JAPANESE  FRUIT  PIE 

(Louise  Gaddy) 

Vi  cup  coconut  1  cup  sugar 

V2  cup  raisins  2  eggs 

V2  cup  pecans,  chopped  1  tsp.  vanilla 

1  stick  margarine  or  butter  1  tsp.  vinegar 

Cream  margarine  and  sugar,  add  eggs.  Beat  well.  Add  remaining  ingredients. 
Pour  into  9-inch  unbaked  shell.  Bake  at  325° F  for  40  minutes. 


HAWAIIAN  FRUIT  PIES 

(Lib  Pearce) 

1  #2  can  crushed  pineapple  1  cup  chopped  nuts 

1  cup  sugar  1  small  can  Angel  Flake  coconut 

5  Tbsp.  flour  Whipped  cream 

Bananas 

Bake  2  pie  shells.  Slice  the  bananas  and  line  the  bottom  of  the  pie  shells  with 
banana.  Sprinkle  the  nuts  over  bananas.  Cook  the  pineapple,  sugar  and  flour 
together  until  thickened.  Pour  this  mixture  over  the  bananas  and  nuts.  Sprinkle 
the  coconut  over  the  mixture  in  the  pie  shells.  Let  sit  overnight.  Top  with 
whipped  cream. 


SILLY  PIE 

(Ruth  Harrell) 

Mix  together: 

1  tsp.  baking  powder 

12  saltines  (crumbled  up) 

1  cup  nuts  (chopped) 

1  tsp.  vanilla 

Add  to: 

3  egg  whites,  beaten  real  stiff 

Add: 

1  cup  sugar 

Beat  more.  Bake  in  greased  9-inch  pie  pan  at  325° F  for  30  minutes. 

Topping 

Drain  1  cup  crushed  pineapple  and  stir  in  4-ounce  container  of  Cool  Whip. 
Spread  on  pie.  Keep  in  refrigerator. 


127 


STRAWBERRY  CREAM  PIE 

(Donna  Branoff) 

1  3  oz.  pkg  cream  cheese,  softened  1  can  Eagle  Brand  condensed  milk 

3  egg  yolks  1  cup  frozen  or  fresh  strawberries 

V»  cup  lemon  juice 

Mix  well  and  pour  into  cold  baked  pie  shell.  Yield  1  pie. 

Meringue  Topping 

Beat  3  egg  whites  until  stiff.  Add  4  Tbsp.  sugar.  Spread  meringue  on  pie  and  bake 
in  350° F  oven  until  lightly  browned. 


ORANGE  PIE 

(Dorothy  Morgan) 

2  eggs  separated 
1/a  cup  sugar 
Vh  cups  milk 
Va  cup  orange  juice 

1  package  vanilla  pie  filling 

2  Tbsp.  sugar 

1  baked  pie  shell 

Blend  orange  juice,  milk,  sugar,  egg  yolks  and  pie  filling  together  and°cook 
slowly  until  thickened.  Let  stand  10  minutes.  Pour  into  pie  shell.  Beat  egg 
whites  untilstiff  adding  2Tbsp.  sugar  gradually.  Spread  meringueoverpieand 
bake  in  400° F  oven  until  golden  brown. 


128 


129 


DESSERTS 
Index 

Baked  Apple  Dumplings    131 

Apple  Crisp    131 

Cranapple  Casserole    1 31 

Curried  Fruit  Bake 132 

Fruit  Cobbler 132 

Chocolate  Yum  Yum   132 

Cherry  Yum  Yum    133 

Cherries  in  the  Snow    133 

Blueberry  Dessert    1 33 

Lemon  Fruit  Freeze  134 

Gallon  Ice  Cream  for  Ice  Cream  Freezer    134 

Hot  Fudge  Sauce  1 34 

Pineapple  Souffle  Proffitt    135 

Strawberry  Ice  Box  Dessert    1 35 

Igloos    135 

Fruit  Delight    136 

Bread  Pudding    136 

Steamed  Carrot  Pudding  136 


130 


BAKED  APPLE  DUMPLINGS 

(Ruth  MacDonald) 

4  cups  flour  1  Tbsp.  baking  powder 

2/3  cup  butter  Apples 

IV2  cups  milk  Nutmeg 

Pare,  core  and  quarter  apples.  Sift  flour  and  baking  powder  together  twice.  Mix 
in  the  butter  and  add  sufficient  milk  to  make  quite  a  stiff  paste  (this  may  require 
slightly  more  than  Vk  cups).  Roll  out  about  Vi  in.  thick.  Cut  in  large  round 
pieces.  Put  several  pieces  of  apple  in  each  and  fold  into  a  ball  and  bake  in  the 
following  syrup. 

Syrup 
4  cups  water  1  tsp.  butter  (heaping) 

1  cup  sugar 

Put  all  together  in  a  baking  tin  and  set  on  stove  and  let  come  to  a  boil.  Then 
drop  in  the  dumplings  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven.  Serve  warm  with  sugar  and 
cream. 

APPLE  CRISP 

(Barbara  Ail  Is) 

4  cups  sliced  cooking  apples  V2  cup  brown  sugar 

1  Tbsp.  lemon  juice  1  tsp.  cinnamon 

1/3  cup  flour  1/3  cup  melted  butter 
1  cup  oats 

Place  apples  in  baking  dish.  Combine  dry  ingredients  until  crumbly.  Sprinkle  on 
top.  Bake  at  375°  F  for  30  minutes  or  until  done.  Makes  6  servings. 


CRANAPPLE  CASSEROLE 

(Ann  Dent) 

3  cups  chopped  unpeeled  apples  IV2  cup  sugar 

2  cups  cranberries 

Mix  the  above  ingredients  and  put  in  deep  dish.  Then  mix  the  following  and  put 
over  fruit: 

1  cup  instant  oatmeal  1/3  cup  flour 

72  cup  brown  sugar  V2  cup  chopped  pecans 

Then  cut  one  stick  of  butter  into  small  pieces  and  put  on  top  of  this.  Cover  and 
bake  for  50  minutes  at  350°  F.  Uncover  and  bake  for  10  minutes  more. 


131 


CURRIED  FRUIT  BAKE 

(Sarah  Eaton) 

1  #1  can  pear  halves  Maraschino  cherries 

1  #1  can  peach  halves  1/3  cup  butter 

1  #2  can  pineapple  chunks  %  cup  brown  sugar 

1  #1  can  apricot  halves  2  to  4  tsp.  curry  powder 

Drain  fruit  well  and  place  in  Vh  qt.  casserole  dish;  melt  butter,  add  sugar  and 
curry  powder  and  add  to  fruit.  Bake  1  hour  at  325°  F.  (Does  not  freeze  well  as 
spice  of  curry  changes.)  Serve  warm. 


FRUIT  COBBLER 

(Betsy  Green) 

1  cup  sugar  1  stick  margarine 

1  cup  flour  1  quart  fruit 

1  cup  milk 

Preheat  oven  to  350°  F.  Melt  butter  in  deep  baking  dish.  Mix  batter  of  sugar,  flour 
and  milk.  Pour  into  baking  dish.  Pour  fruit  on  top  of  batter.  Bake  for  25  minutes. 
May  use  cherries,  peaches,  apples,  blueberries,  etc. 


CHOCOLATE  YUM  YUM 

(Sarah  Tant) 

Crust:  IV2  sticks  margarine,  melted 

T/2  cups  plain  flour  V2  cup  pecans,  chopped 

Mix  the  above  ingredients  and  spread  in  ungreased  2-qt.  oblong  baking  dish. 
Cook  25  minutes  at  350°  F.  Cool.  Then  mix  the  following  ingredients  well  and 
spread  over  the  crust: 

1  cup  powdered  sugar  V2  of  1  large  container  Cool  Whip 

1  8-oz.  pkg.  cream  cheese,  softened 

Topping 

2  small  pkg.  instant  choc,  pudding 
V*  cup  chopped  nuts 

Then  mix  2  small  pkgs.  instant  chocolate  pudding.  Spread  over  cream  cheese 
mixture.  Top  with  remaining  Cool  Whip.  Sprinkle  with  nuts.  Store  tightly  covered 
in  the  refrigerator. 


132 


CHERRY  YUM  YUM 

(Eunice  Wall) 

2  cups  graham  cracker  crumbs 
IV2  sticks  melted  margarine 
1/3  cup  sugar 

Mix  for  crust  and  put  half  in  bottom  of  dish  reserving  half. 

2  small  boxes  Dream  Whip 
1  package  cream  cheese 
1  cup  milk 
1/3  cup  sugar 

Beat  together  until  stiff,  about  5  minutes.  Pour  half  of  cream  mixture  on  top  of 
crumbs.  Add  2  cans  cherry  pie  filling,  then  the  rest  of  the  cream  mixture, 
sprinkling  on  top  remainder  of  crumbs.  Chill  for  24  hours  before  serving.  Use 
Pyrex  dish  12  x  7  x  2  in.  or  near  this  size. 


CHERRIES  IN  THE  SNOW 

(Vicki  Rhodes) 

1  angel  food  cake  1  tsp.  vanilla 

broken  into  small  pieces  2  packages  Dream  Whip 

1  8-ounce  package  cream  cheese  1  can  cherry  pie  filling 
V2  cup  sugar 

Cream  cheese,  sugar  and  vanilla  together.  Whip  Dream  Whip  and  mix  with  the 
cheese  mixture.  Pour  over  the  cake.  Pour  a  can  of  cherry  pie  filling  over  the 
cake  mixture  and  chill  in  the  refrigerator  overnight. 


BLUEBERRY  DESSERT 

(Barbara  A  ills) 

Crust:  1/2  cup  sugar 

20  crushed  graham  crackers  1  stick  margarine 

Mix  above  ingredients  and  press  in  9"x13"  pan.  Cover  with  filling: 

8  oz.  pkg.  cream  cheese,  at  room  1  tsp.  vanilla 

temperature  1  cup  sugar 

2  eggs 

Cream  above  ingredients  with  electric  mixer  and  spread  over  crust.  Bake  for  20 
minutes  at  375° F.  Cool.  After  cooled,  spread  with  a  can  of  blueberry  pie  filling 
and  chill.  May  be  made  a  day  ahead. 


133 


LEMON  FRUIT  FREEZE 

(Martha  Plautz) 

2/3  cup  margarine  V2  cup  Rea Lemon 

1/3  cup  sugar  1  21-ounce  can  lemon  pie  filling 

7  cup  Rice  or  Corn  Chex  cereal,  1  17-ounce  can  fruit  cocktail, 

crushed  to  3  cups  well  drained 

1  14-ounce  can  Eagle  Brand  2  cups  whipped  topping 

sweetened  condensed  milk 

In  medium  saucepan,  melt  margarine,  stir  in  sugar,  then  crumbs,  reserving  1/3 
cup  for  garnish.  Pat  crumbs  firmly  in  bottom  of  13  x  9  in.  baking  pan.  Bake  at 
300° F  for  12  minutes.  Cool.  In  large  bowl,  mix  milk  and  ReaLemon.  Stir  in  pie 
filling  and  fruit  cocktail;  pour  over  crust.  Top  with  whipped  topping  and 
crumbs.  Freeze  4  hours.  Remove  from  freezer  20  minutes  before  cutting.  If 
desired,  garnish  with  lemon  slices. 


GALLON  ICE  CREAM  FOR  ICE  CREAM  FREEZER 

(Ann  Davis) 

2  cups  sugar  2  cans  evaporated  milk,  large 

4  eggs  1  tsp.  vanilla  flavoring 

Mix  the  above  ingredients  well  and  put  in  ice  cream  freezer.  Finish  filling 
container  with  whole  milk.  Freeze  in  the  usual  manner  in  hand  crank  or  electric 
freezer.  This  makes  vanilla  ice  cream. 

Note:  Add  fresh/frozen  strawberries,  bananas,  peaches,  etc.  to  the  milk  mixture 
for  variations. 

Topping  suggestion:  Sprinkle  vanilla  ice  cream  with  broken  pecan  meats  and 
drizzle  with  maple  syrup. 


HOT  FUDGE  SAUCE 

(Marie  Finch) 

3  squares  unsweetened  chocolate  1  14-oz.  can  evaporated  milk 

1  stick  margarine  VU  tsp.  vanilla 

3  cup  unsifted  10X  sugar 

Melt  chocolate  and  margarine  and  remove  from  heat.  Mix  in  the  sugar  and  milk 
alternately.  Bring  to  a  boil,  stirring  constantly.  Cook  and  stir  about  8  min.  until 
thick  and  creamy.  Remove  from  heat  and  stir  in  vanilla.  Serve  warm.  Makes 
about  3  cups. 


134 


PINEAPPLE  SOUFFLE  PROFFITT 

(Cat hey  Terry) 

3  eggs,  beaten 

1  Tbsp.  flour 
%  tsp.  salt 

72  cup  sugar 

2  tsp.  lemon  juice 

1  stick  butter  or  margarine,  softened 
1  #2  can  crushed  pineapple,  juice  and  all 
Buttered  bread,  crusts  removed, 
cut  into  9  cubes  each 

Mix  all  ingredients  except  bread  and  half  stick  butter.  Put  in  well  greased 
casserole.  Trim  crust  off  bread.  Butter  both  sides  generously  with  reserved 
butter.  Cut  into  cubes.  Place  cubes  close  together  to  form  crust.  Bake  at  375°  F 
for  35-45  minutes.  Excellent  with  ham  or  even  as  a  hot  dessert  with  ice  cream 
on  side. 

STRAWBERRY  ICE  BOX  DESSERT 

(Nellie  Alford) 

V2  lb.  butter  V?  tsp.  rum  flavoring 

1  cup  sugar  3  egg  whites,  beaten 

2  qts.  strawberries  4  cups  crushed  vanilla  wafers 
Vi  cup  chopped  nuts 

Wash  and  stem  strawberries  and  slice  into  halves.  Cream  butter  until  soft, 
gradually  add  sugar  and  beat  until  fluffy.  Combine  strawberries,  nuts  and 
flavoring  with  creamed  mixture.  Fold  in  beaten  egg  whites.  Oil  a  9x13  inch  pan. 
Line  pan  with  crumbs  until  all  are  used.  Chill  overnight.  Cut  into  squares  and 
serve  with  whipped  cream  and  additional  berries.  Serves  12. 

IGLOOS 

(Carol  Weeks) 

1  cup  granulated  sugar  1  pint  whipping  cream,  whipped 

1  stick  margarine  (or  Cool  Whip) 

1  cup  pecans,  chopped  1  box  butter  cookies 

%  cup  dates,  chopped  1  small  can  Angel  Flake  coconut 

1  #2  can  crushed  pineapple,  drained 

Melt  butter  or  margarine.  Pour  over  sugar  and  add  nuts,  dates,  pineapple.  Stir 
well.  Stack  3  cookies.  Put  about  a  Tbsp.  of  this  mixture  between  the  first  2 
layers  of  cookies.  Leave  the  top  of  the  third  cookie  plain.  Let  set  overnight  in 
refrigerator.  Cover  the  sides  and  top  with  whipped  cream  or  Cool  Whip. 
Sprinkle  with  Angle  Flake  coconut.  Serves  14. 


135 


FRUIT  DELIGHT 

(Jane  Jennings) 

1  lb.  can  fruit  cocktail  1  8V2  oz.  Cool  Whip 

1  pkg.  miniature  marshmallows  1  pkg.  trench  vanilla  Instant  pudding 

Mix  dry  pudding  with  fruit  cocktail.  Add  marshmallows  and  Cool  Whip.  Chill  and 
serve. 

BREAD  PUDDING 

(Grace  Belcher) 

1  quart  milk  Dash  salt 

3  eggs  Nutmeg 

1/3  cup  sugar  3  slices  dry  bread 

Beat  liquid  very  well.  Add  3  slices  dry  bread,  cut  up.  Stir.  Also  can  add  raisins 
(golden  preferred  with  the  bread).  Bake  350° F  for  45  minutes. 


STEAMED  CARROT  PUDDING 

(Fern  Grantham) 

1%  cups  flour  %  tsp.  cloves 

IV2  cups  sugar  IV2  cups  grated  carrot 

IV2  tsp.  baking  soda  IV2  cups  grated  raw  potato 

IV2  tsp.  salt  %  cup  melted  butter 

1  tsp.  cinnamon  1  cup  chopped  nuts 

%  tsp.  nutmeg  1  cup  candied  fruit 

Creamy  Sauce 
1  cup  sugar  V2  cup  butter 

1  cup  whipping  cream  1  tsp.  rum  or  vanilla  flavoring 

Sift  flour  with  sugar,  soda,  salt  and  spices.  Add  carrot,  potato  and  melted 
butter.  Mix  until  all  of  flour  is  moistened.  Stir  in  nuts  and  candied  fruits.  Turn 
into  well-greased  and  lightly  floured  mold  (2  qt.  capacity)  and  cover.  Set  on 
trivet  in  deep  kettle  with  boiling  water  to  half  depth  of  mold.  Cover  kettle  and 
steam  in  constantly  boiling  water  for  2  hours  (until  pick  inserted  in  pudding 
comes  out  clean).  Remove  mold  from  water  and  let  stand  for  15  minutes  then 
invert  onto  plate.  Serve  warm  with  sauce.  For  sauce  combine  sugar  with 
whipping  cream  and  butter  in  sauce  pan.  Cook  stirring  until  sugar  dissolves, 
then  simmer  about  5  minutes  until  thickened.  Remove  from  heat  and  add 
flavoring. 


136 


Cookies 


137 


COOKIES 
Index 

Oatmeal  Cookies    1 39 

Oatmeal  Chocolate  Cookies 139 

Refrigerator  Oatmeal  Cookies    139 

Ranger  Cookies    139 

Peanut  Butter  Cookies  140 

Canadian  Ginger  Snaps 140 

Carrot  Cookies   140 

Spicy  Pumpkin  Cookies 141 

Scotch  Shortbread    141 

Old-Fashioned  Tea  Cakes  141 

Tea  Cakes    141 

Tea  Cakes    142 

Thumb  Prints    142 

Filled  Dutch  Cookies    142 

Filled  Cookies  143 

Forget-Me-Not  Cookies    143 

Night  Cookies  143 

Cheese  Cake  Cookies    144 

Crumpets   144 

Raisin  Cookies    144 

Sorry  Cookies  145 

Mexican  Wedding  Cakes   145 

Date  Finger  Balls   145 

Chocolate  Chip  Blonde  Brownies 145 

Toll  House  Pan  Cookies    146 

Peanute  Butter  Brownies 1 46 

Orange  Bon  Bons    146 

Pumpkin  Bars   147 

Fudgie  Scotch  Squares    147 

Simply  Terrifies    147 

Fruit  Cake  Cookies    148 


138 


OATMEAL  COOKIES 

(Mrs.  J.  L.  Stell,  from  first  edition) 

Vi  cup  butter  1  tsp.  cinnamon 

Vi  cup  sugar  1  cup  oatmeal 

1  cup  flour  1  egg 

1  tsp.  soda  3  Tbsp.  milk 

Cream  butter,  add  sugar.  Sift  together  flour,  soda,  cinnamon.  Add  oatmeal. 
Beat  egg  and  add  to  sugar  and  butter.  Combine  the  two  mixtures.  Add  milk. 
Drop  from  spoon  on  baking  sheet  and  bake  slowly. 

OATMEAL  CHOCOLATE  COOKIES 

(Andrea  Pearce) 

2  cups  sugar  V2  cup  peanut  butter 

4  Tbsp.  cocoa  3  cups  quick-cook  oatmeal 

1  stick  margarine  1  tsp.  vanilla 

V2  cup  milk  V2  cup  nuts  (if  desired) 

Bring  sugar,  cocoa,  margarine  and  milk  to  a  boil.  Remove  from  heat.  Add 
peanut  butter,  oatmeal  and  vanilla  and  nuts  (if  used).  Drop  cookies  from  spoon 
on  a  sheet  of  waxed  paper  and  let  stand  15  minutes. 

REFRIGERATOR  OATMEAL  COOKIES 

(Marie  Finch) 

IV2  cups  plain  flour  1  cup  packed  brown  sugar 

1  tsp.  soda  1  cup  granulated  sugar 

1  tsp.  salt  2  eggs 

3  cups  oatmeal  1  tsp.  vanilla 
%  cup  margarine 

Sift  together  the  flour,  soda  and  salt.  Stir  in  oats.  Mix  remaining  ingredients.  Add 
flour  mixture.  Chill.  Roll  into  rolls  (2-inch  diameter)  and  refrigerate.  Cut  in  slices; 
place  on  ungreased  cookie  sheet.  Bake  at  350°  F  for  10  min.  or  until  done. 

RANGER  COOKIES 

(Rebecca  Jenkins) 

1  cup  shortening  2  cups  flour 

1  cup  brown  sugar  1  cup  coconut 

1  cup  white  sugar  1  tsp.  vanilla 

2  cups  corn  flakes  2  tsp.  soda 
2  cups  oatmeal  Dash  of  salt 

2  eggs  1  tsp.  baking  powder 

Cream  shortening  and  sugars.  Add  eggs.  Sift  dry  ingredients.  Add  flour,  cereals, 
and  coconut.  Drop  by  rounded  teaspoonfuls  onto  an  ungreased  cookie  sheet. 
Bake  at  300°  F. 


139 


PEANUT  BUTTER  COOKIES 

(Barbara  Ail  Is) 


3  cups  flour 

1  tsp.  baking  powder 

V2  tsp.  soda 

V2  tsp.  salt 


8  Tbsp.  shortening 

V2  cup  peanut  butter 

V2  cup  brown  sugar 

Va  cup  white  granulated  sugar 

2  eggs 

Cream  shortening  and  peanut  butter.  Add  sugar,  eggs;  sift  flour,  baking  powder, 
soda  and  salt  together  and  add  to  other  ingredients.  Roll  into  balls  (walnut  size) 
and  mash  out  with  a  fork  (make  a  criss-cross).  Bake  15  minutes  at  350°  F.  or  until 
done. 


CANADIAN  GINGER  SNAPS 

(Ruth  MacDonald) 


1  cup  molasses 

1  cup  shortening 

3  cups  plain  flour 

1  tsp.  soda  sifted  with  flour 

1  tsp.  salt 


2  tsp.  ginger 
V2  tsp.  cinnamon 
1A  tsp.  cloves 
Va  tsp.  nutmeg 


Mix  and  shape  into  roll  and  freeze  very  hard.  Slice  as  thin  as  possible  and  bake 
in  325° F  oven,  5  minutes  or  until  done.  They  are  very  thin  and  crispy. 


CARROT  COOKIES 

(Ruth  MacDonald) 


1  cup  raw  carrots,  grated 

Va  tsp.  soda  mixed  in  1  cup  honey 
Va  cup  butter,  slightly  melted 

2  eggs 

1  cup  raisins,  chopped 
1  cup  nut  meats,  chopped 


2  cups  quick-cooking  oatmeal 

2  cups  flour,  sifted 

2  tsp.  baking  powder 

Va  tsp.  salt 

Va  tsp.  cinnamon 

Vi  tsp.  nutmeg 


Add  honey  and  soda  to  grated  carrots.  Mix  well.  Add  slightly  melted  butter, 
eggs,  raisins,  nut  meats.  Beat  in  oatmeal.  Add  remaining  dry  ingredients  sifted 
together  with  flour.  Mix  thoroughly.  Drop  by  teaspoonfuls  on  cookie  sheet. 
Flatten  with  fork  or  spoon.  Bake  20-25  minutes  at  350° F  until  golden  brown. 
Makes  7  doz.  cookies. 


140 


SPICY  PUMPKIN  COOKIES 

(Barbara  Ail  Is) 

V*  cup  shortening  IV2  tsp.  cinnamon 

V2  cup  sugar  Vs  tsp.  ginger 

1  egg  V2  tsp.  nutmeg 

1  cup  sifted  flour  V2  cup  cooked  pumpkin 

2  tsp.  baking  powder  Vz  cup  nuts  or  raisins 
Va  tsp.  salt 

Cream  shortening,  sugar;  add  egg.  Sift  dry  ingredients  into  mixture  alternately 
with  pumpkin.  Add  nuts.  Drop  on  greased  cookie  sheet.  Bake  at  375°  F  for  about 
12  minutes  or  until  done. 

SCOTCH  SHORTBREAD 

(Donna  Branoff) 

1  pound  butter  at  room  temperature  4  cups  flour 

1  cup  sugar 

On  medium  speed  of  mixer  cream  butter  until  fluffy.  Add  sugar  and  beat 
again  until  fluffy.  Gradually  add  flour  until  dough  is  soft  and  smooth.  Pat 
dough  in  jelly  roll  pan  or  10  x  15  in.  baking  pan.  Bake  in  preheated  300° F  oven 
for  1  hour  or  until  golden.  Remove  from  oven  and  cut  into  squares  or  use 
cookie  cutters.  Sprinkle  with  granulated  sugar  if  desired.  Let  cool  in  pan  and 
store  in  airtight  container.  Makes  about  36.  THE  SECRET  IS  IN  THE  BUTTER. 

OLD-FASHION  TEA  CAKES 

(Mrs.  R.  C.  Horner,  from  first  edition) 

5  eggs  2  Tbsp.  desired  flavoring 

V2  pound  butter  Flour,  sifted 

2  cups  sugar 

Mix  eggs,  sugar,  butter  and  flavoring  and  add  flour  to  mixture  until  a  stiff 
dough  is  formed.  Roll  out  very  thin  and  cut  to  desired  size  and  place  on 
greased  baking  sheet.  Bake  quickly  in  a  moderate  oven. 


TEA  CAKES 

(Mary  Lib  Privette) 

2  eggs  2V2  cups  self-rising  flour 

1  cup  Crisco  2  tsp.  vanilla 

1  cup  +  2  Tbsp.  sugar  Dab  of  salt 

Mix  well  and  refrigerate.  When  dough  is  thoroughly  chilled,  roll  into  balls  and 
press  out  on  greased  cookie  sheet.  Cook  at  350°  F  until  golden  brown. 


141 


TEA  CAKES 

(Barbara  A  ills) 

1  cup  white  sugar  1  tsp.  soda 

1  cup  brown  sugar  1  tsp.  salt 

2  cups  Crisco  1  cup  nuts 

5  cups  flour  2  tsp.  vanilla 

5  eggs 

Cream  Crisco  with  sugar,  vanilla  and  eggs.  Sift  flour,  soda  and  salt.  Add  flour  a 
little  at  a  time.  Add  nuts  before  the  last  addition  of  flour.  Roll  and  chill  in  ice  box 
overnight.  Slice  and  bake  on  a  greased  cookie  sheet  at  375°  F  until  done. 

THUMB  PRINTS 

(Polly  Dark) 

1  cup  plain  flour  1A  cup  brown  sugar 

V*  tsp.  salt  Va  cup  butter 

Va  tsp.  vanilla  1  egg  yolk 
1  cup  nuts,  chopped 

Cream  sugar,  butter,  salt,  vanilla  and  egg  yolks.  Blend  in  flour.  Roll  into  tiny 
balls  and  dip  into  egg  whites.  Roll  in  chopped  nuts.  Bake  at  350°  F  for  7  minutes 
on  ungreased  cookie  sheet.  Pull  out  and  push  thumb  in  center  and  fill  with  Vi 
tsp.  grape  jelly  or  whatever.  Put  back  in  oven  for  3  minutes.  Should  be  slightly 
brown. 

FILLED  DUTCH  COOKIES 

(Ruth  MacDonald) 

Vi  cup  butter  or  substitute  1  tsp.  vanilla 

1  cup  brown  sugar  2  cups  flour,  sifted 

1  egg       '  1  tsp.  baking  powder 

2  Tbsp.  milk  Vs  tsp.  salt 

Cream  shortening;  add  sugar  and  cream  well.  Add  egg,  milk,  vanilla  and  the 
rest  of  the  ingredients  mixed  and  sifted.  Roll  out  very  thin.  Cutout  circles.  On 
half  the  circles  place  the  Dutch  filling  and  cover  with  another  circle.  Press  the 
two  cookies  together  at  edges.  Place  on  cookie  sheet  and  bake  in  350°  F  oven 
15  minutes. 

Dutch  Filling 

3  level  Tbsp.  butter  Vs  tsp.  salt 

1  Tbsp.  hot  milk  VU  cups  powdered  sugar,  sifted 

1  tsp.  vanilla  y4  cup  nutmeats,  chopped 

3  Tbsp.  cocoa 

Mix  the  butter,  milk,  and  vanilla.  Add  the  rest  of  the  ingredients  and  beat  until 
stiff  enough  to  spread. 


142 


FILLED  COOKIES 

(Florence  Dickie) 

1  egg  V?  tsp.  soda 

1  cup  sugar  2  tsp.  baking  powder 

V2  cup  shortening  3Vz  cups  flour 

Vz  cup  milk  Vz  tsp.  salt 

1  tsp.  vanilla 

Cream  shortening,  sugar,  egg  and  beat  well.  Add  vanilla,  then  milk  alternately 
with  flour  which  has  been  sifted  with  soda,  salt  and  baking  powder.  Mix  well  and 
turn  on  floured  rolling  surface.  Dough  should  be  soft.  Roll  thin  and  cut  with 
cookie  cutter.  Grease  cookie  sheet.  Spread  Vz  cookies  with  filling  and  top  with 
the  remaining  half  of  cookies.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  (350°-375°F). 

Filling 
1  cup  chopped  raisins  Vi  cup  water 

1  Tbsp.  flour  V2  cup  chopped  walnut  meats 
V2  cup  sugar 

Mix  sugar  and  flour  in  sauce  pan.  Add  raisins,  nuts  and  water.  Stir  and  cook  until 
thick.  Cool  before  using.  Will  need  about  1  tsp.  of  filling  per  cookie.  You  do  not 
need  to  seal  the  two  cookie  parts  together.  Dough  is  soft  and  will  seal  itself  as  it 
cooks. 

FORGET-ME-NOT  COOKIES 

(Debbie  Beavers) 

2  egg  whites  at  room  temperature  1  cup  semi-sweet  chocolate  morsels 
Va  tsp.  salt  1  cup  pecans,  chopped 

2/3  cup  sugar 

Pre-heat  oven  to  350°  F.  Beat  eggs  until  foamy  and  white.  Add  salt.  Continue  to 
beat,  gradually  adding  sugar  until  a  stiff  peak  forms.  Fold  in  morsels  and 
pecans.  Place  on  ungreased  cookie  sheet  by  the  spoonful.  Place  in  oven  and 
turn  oven  OFF.  Do  not  open  door  until  the  next  morning.  Yields  40-60  cookies. 

NIGHT  COOKIES 

(Julia  Miller) 

1  cup  brown  sugar,  packed  1  cup  nuts 

1  cup  granulated  sugar  4V2  cups  plain  flour 

IV2  cups  butter,  margarine  or  shortening  2  tsp.  soda 

3  eggs,  beaten  V*  tsp.  salt 

1  cup  raisins,  chopped  2  tsp.  vanilla  (or  to  taste) 

Mix  into  dough.  Make  into  roll  at  night.  Refrigerate.  Slice  Va  in.  thick  next 

morning.  Bake  at  350°  F  for  15  minutes. 


143 


CHEESE  CAKE  COOKIES 

(Donna  Branoff) 


1/3  cup  butter  or  margarine 

1/3  cup  brown  sugar 

1  cup  flour 

Vi  cup  nuts,  finely  chopped 

1A  cup  sugar 


8  ounces  cream  cheese,  softened 

1  egg 

2  Tbsp.  milk 

1  Tbsp.  lemon  juice 
Va  tsp.  vanilla 


Cream  butter  and  brown  sugar.  Add  flour  and  nuts.  Put  all  but  one  cup  of  the 
mixture  into  an  8  in.  pan.  Bake  at  350° F  for  12-15  minutes.  Blend  until  smooth 
sugar  and  cream  cheese.  Add  egg,  milk,  lemon  juice  and  vanilla.  Spread  over 
baked  crust.  Sprinkle  reserved  cup  of  crust  mixture  over  top  and  bake  at  350°  F 
for  25  minutes.  Cool  completely  and  cut  into  squares. 


CRUMPETS 

(Ruth  MacDonald) 


1  cup  brown  sugar 
1  cup  raisins,  chopped 
Va  cup  butter 
1  egg 


Va  tsp.  soda 

2  Tbsp.  sour  milk 

1Va  cup  flour 

%  tsp.  various  spices 


Mix  sugar,  butter  and  egg  together;  then  the  flour,  raisins  and  spices.  Add  to 
the  above  with  the  soda  dissolved  in  sour  milk.  Make  a  rather  stiff  dough.  Drop 
with  a  teaspoon  on  a  buttered  tin  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven. 


RAISIN  COOKIES 

(Mrs.  Paul  V.  Brantley) 


2  cups  raisins 
1  cup  water 

1  tsp.  baking  soda 

2  cups  sugar 
1  cup  butter 

3  eggs 
1  tsp.  vanilla 

Boil  raisins  in  soda  and  water  for  5  minutes.  Mix  other  ingredients  and  pour  raisin 
mixture  into  it.  When  mixed,  drop  from  teaspoon  onto  ungreased  cookie  sheet. 
Bake  at  350°  F  until  brown. 


4  cups  self-rising  flour 

Va  tsp.  salt 

V*  tsp.  nutmeg 

1  tsp.  cinnamon 

1  cup  nuts 

1  tsp.  baking  powder 


144 


SORRY  COOKIES 

(Mary  Kay  Grogan) 

1  pound  box  light  brown  sugar  1  cup  chopped  nuts 

3  eggs  1  31/2  ounce  can  flaked/ 

2  cups  biscuit  mix  grated  coconut 

Cream  together  sugar  and  eggs.  Add  other  ingredients  and  mix  well.  Spread 
mixture  in  a  greased  12  x  14  inch  pan.  Bake  in  preheated  oven  at  325°  F  for  30 
minutes.  Let  cool  in  pan;  then  cut  in  squares.  Yield  about  30  squares. 

MEXICAN  WEDDING  CAKES 

(Barbara  A  ills) 

1  cup  butter  or  oleo  2  tsp.  vanilla 

V*  cup  sugar  1  cup  nuts  (pecans) 

21/2  cups  sifted  flour 

Beat  butter  until  fluffy.  Add  remaining  ingredients.  Shape  into  walnut  sized  balls. 
Place  on  ungreased  cookie  sheet.  Bake  at  325°  F  for  18  to  20  minutes.  Remove 
from  oven  and  roll  in  confectioners  sugar. 

DATE  FINGER  BALLS 

(Becky  Spivey) 

1  cup  sugar  V2  pound  dates,  cut 

1  egg  2  cups  Rice  Krispies 

1  stick  butter  1  cup  pecans,  chopped 

1  tsp.  vanilla  Angel  Flake  coconut 

Combine  sugar,  egg,  butter,  vanilla  and  dates.  Cook  over  medium  heat  10 
minutes.  Pour  over  Rice  Krispies  and  pecans.  Stir  until  cool  enough  to  handle. 
Make  balls  and  roll  in  coconut. 


CHOCOLATE  CHIP  BLONDE  BROWNIES 

(Patti  Morgan) 

Sift  together:  Vs  tsp.  soda 

1  cup  sifted  flour  V2  tsp.  salt 

V2  tsp.  baking  powder 

Add  V2  cup  chopped  nuts  to  flour  mixture  and  mix  well.  Heat  1/3  cup  oleo  and 
cool;  add  1  cup  dark  brown  sugar,  1  egg  (slightly  beaten),  and  1  tsp.  vanilla. 
Combine  the  flour  and  oleo  mixtures.  Turn  into  buttered  9x9x2  inch  pan; 
sprinkle  with  1/2  pkg.  chocolate  chips.  Bake  20  to  25  minutes  at  350°  F.  Yield:  24 
bars. 


145 


TOLL  HOUSE  PAN  COOKIES 

(Emma  Bocock) 

2V»  cup  unsifted  flour  1  tsp.  vanilla  extract 

1  tsp.  baking  soda  2  eggs 

1  tsp.  salt  1  12-oz.  pkg,  (2  cups)  Nestle  Semi- 

1  cup  butter,  softened  Sweet  Real  Chocolate  Morsels 

%  cup  sugar  1  cup  chopped  nuts 

%  cup  firmly  packed  brown  sugar 

Preheat  oven  to  375°  F.  In  small  bowl,  combine  flour,  baking  soda  and  salt;  set 
aside.  In  large  bowl,  combine  butter,  sugar,  brown  sugar  and  vanilla  extract;  beat 
until  creamy.  Beat  in  eggs.  Gradually  add  flour  mixture;  mix  well.  Stir  in  Nestle 
Semi-Sweet  Real  Chocolate  Morsels  and  nuts.  Spread  into  greased  15x10x1 
inch  baking  pan.  (For  one  6-oz.  pkg.  recipe  may  be  divided  in  half.  Spread  into 
greased  13x9x2  inch  baking  pan.  Bake  for  12-15  minutes.)  Bake  at  375°  F  for  20 
minutes  for  full  recipe.  Cool;  cut  into  2"  squares.  Makes  35  squares. 


PEANUT  BUTTER  BROWNIES 

(Kaye  Grissom) 

Vi  cup  peanut  butter  1  6-ounce  package  chocolate  chips 

1/3  cup  margarine  1  cup  plain  flour 

1  cup  sugar  1  tsp.  baking  powder 
Va  cup  brown  sugar  1A  tsp.  salt 

2  eggs  Vi  tsp.  vanilla 

Beat  margarine  and  peanut  butter  until  blended.  Gradually  add  sugar,  beat 
until  fluffy.  Add  eggs  one  at  a  time  and  beat  after  each  addition.  Add  dry 
ingredients,  mix  well.  Stir  in  chips  and  vanilla.  Spread  in  buttered  pan.  Bake  at 
350° F  for  25-30  minutes.  Cool  and  cut  into  bars. 


ORANGE  BON  BONS 

(Ruth  Oliver) 

2  31/2-ounce  cans  flaked  coconut  7  cups  confectioners  sugar 

Yellow/red  food  color  1  Tbsp.  grated  orange  rind 

1  8-ounce  softened  cream  cheese 

Empty  coconut  in  large  jar  with  tight  cover.  Mix  2  drops  yellow  and  1  drop  red 
food  coloring  with  1  tsp.  water  in  jar.  Shake  until  coconut  is  evenly  tinted. 
Spread  on  wax  paper.  Beat  cream  cheese  until  fluffy.  Beat  in  sugar,  1  cup  at  a 
time,  just  until  well  blended  and  stiff  enough  to  handle.  Add  orange  rind,  mix 
well.  Pinch  off  mixture  1  tsp.  at  a  time  and  roll  in  balls.  Roll  in  coconut  to  coat 
generously.  Cover  tightly  and  store  in  refrigerator.  Makes  about  6  dozen. 


146 


PUMPKIN  BARS 

(Rita  Bocock) 

4  eggs,  beaten  1  tsp.  cinnamon 

1  2/3  cup  sugar  1  tsp.  baking  powder 

1  cup  oil  1  tsp.  soda 

2  cups  flour  1  small  can  pumpkin 
1  tsp.  salt 

Mix  all  ingredients  together  well.  Bake  on  cookie  sheet  about  50  minutes  at 
250°  F.  When  cool  frost  with: 

1  stick  oleo  1  box  powdered  sugar 

1  3-oz.  pkg.  cream  cheese  Vh  tsp.  vanilla 

Mix  well  and  add  a  little  milk  as  needed. 


FUDGIE  SCOTCH  SQUARES 

(Margaret  Finch) 

Vk  cup  graham  cracker  crumbs  1  pkg.  (1  cup)  Nestle's  Butterscotch 

1  can  Borden  Eagle  Brand  Sweetened         Morsels 

Condensed  Milk  1  cup  coarsely  chopped  walnuts 

1  pkg.  (1  cup)  Nestle's  Semi-Sweet 

Chocolate  Morsels 

Preheat  oven  to  350°  F.  Blend  all  ingredients  together  well  and  press  mixture  into 
a  very  well-greased  9"  square  pan.  Bake  at  350° F  for  30  to  35  minutes.  Cool  for 
45  minutes  and  cut  into  11/2"  squares  (makes  36). 


SIMPLY  TERRIFICS 

(Fern  Grantham) 

1  package  walnut  fudge  frosting  mix 

2  cups  graham  cracker  crumbs 
1A  cup  powdered  sugar 

Vi  cup  melted  butter 

1  can  sweetened  condensed  milk 

2  cups  flaked  coconut 

6  ounces  milk  or  semi-sweet  chocolate 

Combine  1/3  cup  frosting  mix,  sugar,  crumbs  and  butter  and  press  into  a  13x9- 
in.  pan.  Combine  in  bowl  remaining  frosting  mix,  milk  and  coconut.  Spread 
overtop  of  crust.  Bake  at  350°  F  no  more  than  15  minutes.  Remove  from  oven 
and  place  chocolate  on  top  until  melted,  then  spread  evenly.  Cool  completely 
and  cut  into  bars. 


147 


FRUIT  CAKE  COOKIES 

(Sarah  Mowery) 

1  lb.  butter  or  margarine  12  slices  candied  pineapple 

1  lb.  dark  brown  sugar  1  lb.  candied  cherries 

3  eggs  1  tsp.  vanilla 

4V2  cups  self-rising  flour  1  pint  jar  pineapple  preserves 

3  tsp.  soda  2  lb.  dates 

3  Tbsp.  milk  3  qts.  pecans 

Cream  shortening,  sugar  and  eggs.  Add  flour  and  milk.  Gradually  add  remaining 
ingredients.  Batter  will  be  stiff.  Drop  by  small  teaspoonfuls  onto  greased  cookie 
sheet.  Bake  at  300°  F  for  12  minutes  or  until  done.  Makes  about  500  small 
cookies. 


148 


Cfthdy 


149 


CANDY 
Index 

Sour  Cream  Chocolate  Fudge  151 

Fool  Proof  Fudge 151 

Smith  College  Fudge    151 

Cold  Fudge    152 

Mexican  White  Fudge 152 

Divinity  Fudge    152 

Reese  Cup  Balls 152 

Mrs.  Thompson's  Butter  Mints  1 53 

Mints    153 

Fondant  for  Easter  Eggs    153 

No  Bake  Date  Nut  Roll 153 

Hay  Stack     154 

Chocolate  Crunches  154 

Maple  Puffs    154 

Yam  Candy    1 54 

Molasses  Candy  154 


150 


SOUR  CREAM  CHOCOLATE  FUDGE 

(Carolyn  Bunn) 

2  cups  sugar  V*  tsp.  salt 

1  cup  confectioners  sugar  1  Tbsp.  butter 

1  cup  sour  cream  1  tsp.  vanilla 

3  squares  unsweetened  chocolate  1  cup  chopped  nuts 

Mix  first  5  ingredients  in  heavy  saucepan;  bring  to  boil,  stirring  occasionally. 
Reduce  heat  and  cook  without  stirring  until  small  amount  of  mixture  forms  a  soft 
ball  or  234°  F.  Remove  from  heat.  Add  butter  and  vanilla  and  cool  until  lukewarm. 
Add  nuts.  Beat  until  mixture  is  thick  and  looses  its  gloss.  Pour  into  buttered  pan. 
Cut  into  squares  when  cooled.  Makes  about  1%  lbs.  It  has  a  tendency  to  stick  so 
use  caution. 


FOOL  PROOF  FUDGE 

(Alice  Farmer) 

1  large  bag  marshmallows  (24  or  32)  1  stick  margarine 

1A  cup  water  1  small  can  Carnation  milk 

3  cups  sugar  2  pkgs.  semi-sweet  chocolate  bits 

Va  tsp.  vinegar  1  cup  chopped  nuts 

Melt  marshmallows  with  water  in  top  of  double  boiler.  In  separate  pan  mix  and 
bring  to  a  boil  the  sugar,  vinegar,  margarine,  milk.  When  starts  a  hard  boil  stir  and 
boil  8  minutes.  Pour  over  the  melted  marshmallows.  Add  2  pkgs.  of  chocolate 
bits.  Beat  chocolate  into  mixture  until  melted.  Add  chopped  nuts.  Pour  into 
greased  pan  or  bowl. 


SMITH  COLLEGE  FUDGE 

(Ruth  MacDonald) 

1  cup  brown  sugar 
1A  cup  butter 
Vi  cup  cream 

1  cup  granulated  sugar 
1A  cup  molasses 

2  squares  Baker's  chocolate 
V2  tsp.  vanilla 

Mix  sugar,  butter,  cream,  molasses  and  chocolate  together  and  cook  until  it 
forms  a  heavy  thread.  Take  from  fire.  Add  vanilla.  Stir  constantly  until  the  mass 
thickens.  Pour  into  buttered  pan. 


151 


COLD  FUDGE 

(Grace  Belcher) 

1  pound  10-X  sugar  4  Tbsp.  cocoa 

1  egg  V*  pound  oleo,  melted 

Mix  sugar  and  cocoa  together.  Add  beaten  egg.  Add  oleo.  A  little  milk  may  be 
added  if  thick.  Spread  in  greased  9  x  9  in.  pan.  Refrigerate  before  cutting. 


MEXICAN  WHITE  FUDGE 

(Carolyn  Bunn) 

4  cups  sugar  Pinch  of  salt 

1  13-oz.  can  Carnation  evaporated  milk    1  tsp.  vanilla 

V2  lb.  butter  1  cup  chopped  nuts 

2  Tbsp.  white  Karo  syrup 

Mix  and  boil  until  234°  F  or  soft  ball  stage,  stirring  constantly.  Cool  slightly  and 
add  vanilla,  1  cup  chopped  nuts.  Pour  into  buttered  pans.  Cut  into  squares  when 
cool. 


DIVINITY  FUDGE 

(Mrs.  S.  G.  Flowers,  from  first  edition) 

21/2  cups  sugar  1  cup  chopped  nuts 

V2  cup  syrup  1  tsp.  vanilla 

2  egg  whites 

Cook  sugar  and  syrup  together  until  a  soft  ball  is  formed.  Pour  mixture  over 
stiffly  beaten  egg  whites  and  continue  to  beat  until  cool.  Add  nuts  and  vanilla. 
Drop  on  a  platter  and  let  harden. 


REESE  CUP  BALLS 

(Sandra  Ward) 

1  lb.  margarine  3  Tbsp.  vanilla 

2  cups  peanut  butter  1  6-oz.  pkg.  semi-sweet  chocolate 
2V2  to  3  lbs.  confectioners  sugar  chips 

Vs  to  1A  lb.  paraffin 

Cream  margarine  and  peanut  butter.  Add  sugar  until  consistency  to  form  balls 
the  size  of  marbles.  Add  vanilla.  Mix  thoroughly.  Melt  chocolate  and  paraffin  in 
small  double  boiler.  Dip  balls  in  chocolate  with  toothpick.  Place  on  waxed  paper 
to  cool. 


152 


MRS.  THOMPSON'S  BUTTER  MINTS 

(Barbara  Ail  Is) 

2  cups,  heaping  full  (about  21A  cups)         1  cup  cold  water 
white  sugar  1/3  stick  oleo 

In  heavy  pan,  over  high  heat,  boil  all  ingredients  until  candy  thermometer  reads 
270°  F.  Pour  on  marble  slab,  add  color  and  mint  flavor.  Pull  as  soon  as  you  can 
handle.  Cut  with  scissors. 


MINTS 

(Grace  Belcher,  Debbie  Beavers) 

1  pound  10-X  sugar  Vi  tsp.  oil  of  peppermint 

Vs  pound  oleo,  melted  Food  coloring 

3  Tbsp.  boiling  water 

Put  in  food  coloring  before  you  mix.  Put  sugar  in  bowl,  make  a  hole  and  put  all 
ingredients  into  it.  Knead  like  dough.  Make  into  small  balls  and  press  down 
with  press  or  glass.  Could  be  made  into  rolls  and  sliced. 


FONDANT  FOR  EASTER  EGGS 

(Fern  Grantham) 

V2  pound  butter  1  tsp.  vanilla  (or  other  flavoring) 

Va  cup  hot  mashed  potatoes  Food  coloring 

2V2  pounds  powdered  sugar  1  package  chocolate  chips 

Mix  potatoes  and  butter  until  smooth.  Let  cool.  Add  sugar,  vanilla  and  food 
coloring.  Shape  into  eggs.  Chill  1  hour.  Dip  in  chocolate  coating  made  by 
melting  chocolate  chips  over  hot  water.  Let  cool. 


NO  BAKE  DATE  NUT  ROLL 

(Alice  Farmer) 

1  lb.  pecans  1  lb.  marshmallows 

1  lb.  English  walnuts  1  cup  canned  milk 

1  cup  black  walnuts  1  lb.  box  dates 

1  lb.  box  graham  crackers  1  lb.  box  raisins 

Melt  marshmallows  with  milk  and  pour  over  broken  nuts,  chopped  dates,  raisins 
and  finely  crushed  crackers.  Mix  with  hands.  Pack  in  quart  milk  cartons.  Makes 
about  21/2  cartons. 


153 


HAY  STACK 

(Alice  Farmer) 

1  6-oz.  pkg.  butterscotch  morsels  2  cups  miniature  marshmallows 

2  Tbsp.  cooking  oil  1  large  can  chow  mein  noodles 

Melt  butterscotch  morsels  over  hot  water  in  double  boiler.  Add  oil, 
marshmallows,  and  noodles.  Drop  by  spoonfuls  on  cookie  sheet  or  wax  paper. 

CHOCOLATE  CRUNCHES 

(Grace  Kilkelly) 

1  12-oz.  pkg.  semi-sweet  Vz  cup  peanuts 

chocolate  bits  1  5-oz.  can  chow  mein  noodles 

Melt  the  chocolate  bits  in  top  of  a  double  boiler  over  water.  Add  peanuts  and 
chow  mein  noodles.  Toss  gently  until  mixture  is  thoroughly  and  evenly  coated. 
Drop  from  teaspoons  onto  waxed  paper.  Chill  to  harden.  Makes  24  clusters. 

MAPLE  PUFFS 

(Ruth  MacDonald) 

V2  pound  maple  sugar  V2  cup  chopped  figs 

V2  pound  brown  sugar  Va  cup  chopped  citron 

2  egg  whites  %  cup  raisins 
1  cup  English  walnuts                               %  cup  water 

Boil  sugars  and  water  until  they  spin  a  heavy  thread.  Beat  whites  of  eggs  very 
stiff.  Gradually  add  the  hot  syrup  to  egg  whites,  beating  all  the  time.  When 
mixture  begins  to  stiffen,  add  the  other  ingredients.  Beat  until  it  will  hold  its 
shape.  Place  by  tablespoonsful  on  greased  paper  and  let  stand  until  stiff. 

YAM  CANDY 

(Fern  Grantham) 

IV2  cups  yams,  mashed  1A  cup  orange  juice 

1  cup  sugar 

Cook  juice  and  sugar  until  sugar  dissolves  and  is  boiling.  Stir  in  yams  and  cook 
until  thick  (15  to  20  minutes.)  Spread  on  buttered  plate  to  cool.  Roll  into  balls 
and  then  in  granulated  sugar. 

MOLASSES  CANDY 

(Ruth  MacDonald) 

1  cup  molasses  V2  cup  water 

3  cups  sugar  1  tsp.  cream  of  tartar 

Mix  sugar  and  cream  of  tartar  together.  Add  molasses  and  water  and  stir  until 
sugar  is  dissolved.  Boil  without  stirring  until  it  hardens  in  cold  water.  Turn  into 
buttered  pan.  When  cool,  work  and  cut  in  sticks. 


154 


For  Children  Saying  Grace 


God  is  great,  God  is  good, 
Let  us  thank  Him  for  our  food. 


Bless  this  food,  dear  Lord,  we  pray, 
Keep  us  safe  from  day  to  day. 
Grant  us  grace  and  will  to  show 
Jesus'  love  where'er  we  go. 

Come,  Lord  Jesus,  our  guest  to  be 
And  bless  this  food,  bestowed  by  Thee. 


All  the  little  children  praise  Thee 

For  Thy  care  and  tender  love, 
For  our  food  and  for  our  houses, 

For  the  sun  that  shines  above.  AMEN 

Bless  us,  Jesus,  in  our  home; 

Bless  all  those  across  the  sea. 
Please  send  needed  food  and  drink 

Every  day  for  them  and  me.  AMEN 

Father  of  all  little  children, 
I  would  bring  my  thanks  to  Thee. 

When  Thou  blessest  little  children, 

Place  Thy  hands,  dear  Lord,  on  me.  AMEN 

Dear  Lord,  You  know  I  need  my  food 
To  keep  me  strong  and  sweet  and  good, 

And  I  shall  try  my  thanks  to  say 
By  loving  Thee  all  through  the  day.  AMEN 


155 


To  Thee  who  fills  the  hungry  with  good  things  and  satisfies  the  desires  of  every 
living  thing,  we  return  ourthanks,  through  Jesus  Christ.  AMEN 

Our  gracious  Father,  we  thank  Thee  for  the  tree  which  brings  forth  fruit  in 
season,  for  ripening  grain,  for  meat  that  strengthens  the  heart  of  man.  May  we 
not  be  unmindful  of  the  love  which  planned  all  things  well  for  Thy  children. 
AMEN 

Break  Thou  the  bread  of  life  to  us,  O  Lord,  we  pray.  AMEN 

Our  Father,  may  the  praise  of  Thy  children  know  no  season,  but  be  as  constant  as 
Thy  love  to  us.  AMEN 

Heaven  and  earth  praise  Thee,  O  Lord.  The  sea  and  all  things  therein  glorify 
Thee.  We,  the  children  of  men,  come  before  Thee,  bringing  thanksgiving  as  our 
offering.  AMEN 

Thy  loaves  of  mercy,  Lord,  increase  according  to  our  need.  May  we  neverdoubt 
Thy  love,  nor  fail  in  thanks  for  Thy  faithfulness.  AMEN 

Put  a  new  song  into  our  mouths,  our  Father,  the  song  of  praise  for  all  Thy 
benefits.  Through  Christ,  we  pray.  AMEN 

Lord  of  heaven  and  earth  and  Fatherof  usall,  hearusas  weofferthanksforThy 
gift  of  bread.  AMEN 

Accept  the  praise  of  thankful  hearts,  our  Father,  weask  through  ChristourLord. 
AMEN 

Abide  with  us  now,  O  Lord,  for  the  day  is  far  spent.  Be  Thou  our  guest  as  the 
evening  shadows  fall.  AMEN 

We  thank  Thee,  Our  Heavenly  Father, 
for  this  food,  sanctified  for  the 
nourishment  of  our  bodies  and  for 
the  nourishment  of  Christ's  sake.  Amen. 

—C.C.  Rackley 

Family  Grace  Honoring  A  Visitor 

Dear  Heavenly  Father,  we  join  hands  and  bow  our  heads  in  grateful  acceptance 
of  Thy  bounteous  goodness.  We  ask  Thy  blessing  upon  our  family  and  upon 
(name  of  guest),  with  whom  we  are  privileged  to  share  this  meal.  Bless  the  food 
we  are  about  to  partake,  that  we  may  be  nourished  in  body  and  spirit  to  the 
service  and  glory  of  Thy  Son,  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

156 


-/Alfe 


hosi/Kfp&ftf 


157 


THE  LIBRARY  OF  THE 

UNIVERSITY  OF 

NORTH  CAROLINA 

AT  CHAPEL  HILL 


THE  COLLECTION  OF 
NORTH  CAROLINIANA 

ENDOWED  BY 

JOHN  SPRUNT  HILL 
CLASS  OF  1889 


C641.5 

Z41p 


158 


REORDER  SHEET 

To  Zebulon  United  Methodist  Women,  PO  Box  415,  Zebulon,  NC  27597 

Send copies  of  THE  PANTRY  SHELF  @  $6.00  each  postpaid. 

Enclosed  is  my  check  or  money  order  for  $ (Make  check 

payable  to  Zebulon  United  Methodist  Women.) 

Name 

Street  or  Box  # 

City    


State 


Zip 


RE 


To  Zebulon  United  Methodist 


I        " 

THE  T> 


Send 


copies  of  J[ 


Enclosed  is  my  check  or  me 
payable  to  Zebulon  United  l\i 


Name 


Street  or  Box  # 
City    


REC 

To  Zebulon  United  Methodis 


copies  of  Th 


Send 

Enclosed  is  my  check  or  mo 
payable  to  Zebulon  United  IV 

Name 

Street  or  Box  # 
City   


UNIVERSITY  OF  N.C.  AT  CHAPEL  HILL 


00040651393 


FOR  USE  ONLY  IN 
HE  NORTH  CAROLINA  COLLECTION 


ORDER  FORM  FOR  GIFT  COPY 

Send  gift  copy  of  THE  PANTRY  SHELF  to: 

Name 

Street  or  Box  #  


City   State Zip 

with  suitable  gift  card  enclosure. 

My  check  for  $6.00  made  payable  to  Zebulon  United  Methodist  Women 
is  enclosed. 

Name  of  Purchaser  

Address    


ORDER  FORM  FOR  GIFT  COPY 

Send  gift  copy  of  THE  PANTRY  SHELF  to: 

Name 

Street  or  Box  # 


City State Zip 

with  suitable  gift  card  enclosure. 

My  check  for  $6.00  made  payable  to  Zebulon  United  Methodist  Women 
is  enclosed. 

Name  of  Purchaser  

Address    


ORDER  FORM  FOR  GIFT  COPY 

Send  gift  copy  of  THE  PANTRY  SHELF  to: 

Name 


Street  or  Box  # 


City   State Zip 

with  suitable  gift  card  enclosure. 

My  check  for  $6.00  made  payable  to  Zebulon  United  Methodist  Women 
is  enclosed. 

Name  of  Purchaser  

Address    


Zebulon  United  Methodist  Church,  1982 


