—9 


LIBRARY 


UNIVERSITY  OF  CALIFORNIA. 


GIFT    OF 


Class 


rou  Get  That  New  Onee-a-Monfh 
Maqazinc  FREE  Next  Sunday 


The  following  merchants  mnd  dealers  carry 
the  genuine 

Union  Cookery  Bags 

Each  package  of  Union  Cookery  Bags, 

*  which  you    can  purchase  at  your  nearest 

'  dealer,  contains  an  original  Soyer's  "Paper 

Bag  Cookery  Book'*,   giving  many    choice 

recipes — "How  to  Use  Union  Cookery  Bags" 

and    time   table    for   Union    Cookery  Bag 

cooking* 


JTKJW  YORK 

WANAMAKE..R,    iOtB    St.    and 

Broadway, 
CARTER  *  SCffiZNSOOT.  Orirata*  Are. 

and  73d  Bt, 
TOWEE  MFG.  OCX..  £8 
E.  H.  MAOi.  &  'OO.,  84tfc  6k 

way. 
HEGEMAIf  &  <X>..  IS&tfa,  fit 

Ave. 
GREE'NHOT-SIEGEiL  OOOFEUEb  CO.,  «th 

Are.  and  ISth  fit, 
B.  MURPHY,  3449  Broadway, 
DUFFY-CARNE1  CO.,  2121  Broadway. 
UNIVERSAL     NOVELTY     CC,.      1183 

Broadway* 
a    L.    LOPE    PKABM1A0I,    Broadway 

and  112th  St 

CHA8.  JONES,  920  Broadway. 
SCHAAF  BROS.,  2151  8th,  Av* 
ROHDB  &  HA8KINS,  16  Cortlandt  fit. 
R.  B.  BOBBINS,  539  I«nox  Are. 
D.  WEINBEHG,  996  Columbua  Avc. 
JAS.    BERGMAN.    Columbus  Ave.   and 

92d  St. 

GIMJBEL  BROS.,  33d  St.  and,  6th  Are. 
NATHAN    SNYDER.    1308    Amsterdam 

Ave. 
JTJTSPGMANN  PHARMAOT,   428   Colua> 

bus  Ave. 
KLIK&MAN 

Ave. 
LOUIS  KLEIN  PHARMACY,   103d   St. 

and  Amsterdam  Are, 
H.  C.  F.  KOCH  &  CO.,  "West  125th  St. 
BLOOMlNGOAiLBS',    59th   St.   and  3d 


'.  1423  Btexfcc 
St. 

STANDARD    DROQ    CO.,    Button    and 
Church  St3L 

APPIiL,  1036  Amsterdam  Aye. 


PHARMACT.    2631     8th 


14TH  ST.  STORE,  fofc  ATO,  tad  14th 
tit. 

A.  F.  BEOKMANN  &  CO.,  3510  Broad- 
way, near  143d  st,;  3660  Broadway, 
near  151st  st. :  89  Amsterdam  ave., 
near  63d  st. ;  428  Amsterdam  are., 
near  81st  st.;  641  Amsterdam  ave., 
cor.  91st  st.:  826  Amsterdam  ave.. 
near  101st  at.;  1437  Amsterdam  are., 
cor.  131st  si.;  2*362  8th  ave.,  near 
•112th  st.;  2771  8th  ave.,  cor.  147th 
st.;  225  9th  are.,  cor.  24th  3t.;  840 
6th  ave.,  cor.  55th  st.:  718  Cohunbua 
ave.,  cor.  95th  st, ;  473  Lottos  ave., 
near  134th  st. ;  553  J>euox  ave.,  cor. 
St.;  1288  Lexington  ave.,  cor. 
st.;  M44  Lexington  ave.,  cor. 
94th  St.;  1810  2d  ave..  oor.  69th  st.  ; 
1576  2d  ave.,  cor.  S2d  at.;  1697  1st 
ave.,  cor.  88th  st.:  232  Willis  ave., 
near  138th  st.:  496  Brook  ave.,  cor. 
147th  st.;  291  Burnside  A*e.e  cor. 
Ryer  ave.  Suburban  Branches — 
254  Main  st..  New  Roobelle,  N.  Y.; 
118  Washington  st.,  South  Norwalk, 
Conn.;  Palisade  Market,  Palisade,  N.  J. 

HA.RR1  A.  FLAGGE,  307  Columbus 
ave. 

S.    BROWN,   2318   B'way,    cor.    84th   st. 

J.  W.  HUGHES  &  CO.,  1031  0th  ave. 

ANDREW  KAHT.  B'way,  cor.  88th  st, 

LOUIS  J.  LANG,  207  Columbus  ave., 
near  69th  st. 

J.  L.  RIBEGAN,  386  Amsterdam  ave., 
near  7Sth  st. 

D-ENIS  RYAJN,  214  West  End  aye.,  cor, 
70th  st. 

C.  STEFFENS.  58th  st.  and  0tfc  ave. 

H.  D.  G.  WERNKE,  3060  B'way,  cor. 
121st  at. 


JOHN  &OHAFTT,  67  5th  are.,  BMyn. 
(Continued  on  Inside  Back  Cover.) 


The  Paper  Bag  Cook  Book 

Complete  Information  About  This  New 
and  Desirable  Method  of  Cooking, 
With  an  Introduction  by  Emile  Bailly, 
Chef  of  the  Hotel  St.  Regis,  and  Page 
After  Page  of  Delicious  Recipes, 
Including  Many  of  Mr.  Bailly's  Own. 

(Copyright,    1'Jll,   by  American-Journal- Examiner.) 

COOKING  in  paper  bags  appeals  to  many  housewives  as  a 
unique,  economical,  labor-saving  method  of  preparing  a  meal. 
Indeed,  when  attended  with  the  expected  results,  food  thus 
cooked  retains  a  delicious  flavor  and  zest  which  are  hardly  obtain- 
able through  the  old  way. 

The  sealed  bag  prevents  loss  of  the  rich  juices  or  shrinkage  of 
the  food,  and  the  heat  is  in  most  cases  more  thoroughly  distributed. 
This  confinement  of  the  heat,  of  course,  greatly  reduces  the  time 
required  for  cooking  and  makes  a  material  reduction  in  the  fuel 
bill.  As  the  bag  is  always  placed  upon  a  gridiron  in  the  oven,  pots 
and  pans  are  not  needed,  and  the  malodorous  fumes  peculiar  to  many 
dishes  are  unknown. 

Like  all  such  innovations,  however,  the  new  paper  bag 
cookery  has  its  restrictions.  Nowhere  is  success  more  dependent 
upon  repeated  experience,  and  the  average  person  will  seldom  be 
proud  of  her  first  attempt  with  the  bags. 

It  should  be  understood  at  the  outset  that  the  scheme  is  not 
practicable  for  a  coal  range.  Gas  or  electricity  is  everywhere  pref- 
erable, because  of  the  steady  heat  which  can  be  kept.  Neither  is 
bag  cooking  on  a  large  scale  to  be  advised.  Hotels  and  boarding 
houses  with  their  accustomed  ranges  cannot  afford  to  experiment 
with  great  quantities,  especially  since  they  rarely  use  gas  for  the 
more  important' dishes.  Certain  technicalities  of  seasoning  and  stir- 
ring the  cooking  food,  only  too  well  known  to  the  cook  and  the 
chef,  are  precluded  by  the  closed  bag,  and  while  such  minor  matters 
are  negligible  in  the  private  residence  they  loom  up  significantly  in 
the  hotel  kitchen. 

But  at  the  house,  or  at  the  apartment,  the  paper  bag  may  well  be 
employed  to  great  advantage  and  satisfaction.  The  up-to-date  hostess 
will  entertain  a  party  of  friends  at  a  "paper  bag  dinner,"  and  as  the 
toothsome  viands  are  brought  upon  the  table  concealed  in  those 


THE    SU.MDAY    AMERICAN'S 


queer-looking  browned  sacks  naught  but  exclamations  of  delight  can 
escape  her  guests  when  the  novel  puffed  pouch«s  are  slit  open  and 
give  forth  volumes  of  savory,  piquant  odors.  Again,  if  the  busy, 
thrifty  woman  be  delayed  by  a  long  afternoon  shopping,  and  reaches 
home  only  to  find  time  enough  to  prepare  a  "hurry-up''  dinner  for 
her  family,  the  paper  bag  readily  lends  itself  to  hasty  cooking.  Fish, 
roasts  and  some  of  the  vegetables  can  be  easily  prepared  and  made 
ready  to  serve  in  a  surprisingly  s/hort  period. 

Until  the  cook  is  accustomed  to  the  various  times  required  for 
different  dishes,  she  will  probably  be  harassed  by  doubts  as  to  when 
the  dish  is  done.  She  cannot  see  inside  of  the  bag,  and  to  rip  it  open 
would  destroy  the  benefits  that  are  to  be  obtained  only  by  the  closed 
bag,  but  if  she  wishes  to  see  whether  the  dish  is  properly  cooked  it  is 
easy  to  press  gently  on  the  bag  and  feel  whether  the  meat  or  fish  is 
thoroughly  tender. 

The  cooking  of  our  food  in  a  paper  bag  is  not  new.  The 
present  idea,  without  doubt,  grew  out  of  the  old  and  familiar  method 
of  cooking  en  papillote.  But  the  difference  between  these  dishes  en 
papillote  and  the  latest  idea  of  cooking  in  bags  is  that,  as  a  rule, 
most  of  the  old  dishes  were  prepared  and  sometimes  half  cooked 
before  they  were  put  into  the  paper.  Of  course,  this  was  therefore 
a  matter  for  the  chef  and  many  assistants,  who  desired  to  attain  a 
certain  flavor,  rather  than  a  device  to  save  labor.  In  olden  times 
our  forefathers  used  to  cook  their  game  and  fruits  wrapped  in  leaves 
and  parchment,  and  we  ourselves,  when  camping,  frequently  wrap  a 
bird  in  a  piece  of  old  linen,  then  in  coarse  brown  paper,  and  roast 
it  on  the  ashes  of  the  camp  fire.  Now  the  idea  is  brought  into  the 
home  and  made  practical.  All  that  is  necessary  is  an  oven,  a  grid 
and  a  paper  bag. 

The  bag,  firmly  fastened  at  the  bottom  and  up  the  sides,  keeps  in 
all  the  smell  of  cookery,  all  the  albumen  of  the  food,  and  prevents 
loss  of  weight  in  cooking.  In  either  roasting  or  baking,  beef  loses 
25  per  cent  of  its  weight  when  cooked  by  the  ordinary  methods.  In 
the  paper  bag,  however,  it  loses  none  of  its  weight  and  no  particle 
of  its  essence. 

When  the  food  is  taken  from  the  bag  a  small  quantity  of  con- 
centrated gravy  first  rolls  out,  and  it  is  the  purest  and  best  broth 
that  can  be  imagined.  The  time  that  the  gas  oven  has  been  in  use 
for  preparing  the  meal  is  reduced  by  at  least  one-third.  There  is  not 
the  faintest  trace  of  odors  from  the  kitchen,  not  even  in  the  case  of 
vegetables,  which  sometimes  smell  rather  strongly,  as  cauliflower,  for 
instance. 

The  paper  bag  system  notably  allows  freedom  from  grease.  Many 
dishes  which  are  too  rich  for  the  digestion  when  cooked  in  the  usual 
way  may  be  put  into  a  paper  bag  with  no  more  butter  than  is  neces- 
sary to  grease  the  bag,  and  will  be  found  to  have  gained  in  savor 
and  delicacy  of  taste,  while  so  completely  free  from  grease  that  they 
will  not  disagree  with  the  most  delicate  digestion.  Furthermore, 
there  is  no  scrubbing  out  of  a  greasy  oven,  with  dripping  clinging  to 
its  sides;  no  washing  out  of  the  dripping  pan  or  baking  dish.  A 


PAPER   BAG    COOK   BOOK  3 

spotlessly  clean  oven  is  left,  and  when  the  bags  have  been  burned 
up  and  the  dishes  washed  the  cook's  labors  with  the  finished  meal 
are  over. 

Many  housekeepers  have  discovered  how  to  freshen  and  reheat 
bread  by  wrapping  it  in  a  paper  bag.  Biscuit  that  have  been  cooked 
for  twenty-four  hours,  while  having  lost  only  one  per  cent  or  one- 
half  per  cent  of  moisture  by  evaporation,  are  nevertheless  dry.  Their 
crusts  are  brittle,  though  the  heart  will  be  moist.  If  the  moisture 
can  be  redistributed  the  biscuit  will  become  almost  as  good  as  when 
first  baked.  Nothing  will  accomplish  this  redistribution  as  well  as 
paper  wrapping. 

Soups  cannot  be  cooked  in  bags,  as  the  expansion  caused  by 
evaporation  bursts  the  paper.  Vegetables  and  desserts  give  varying 
success,  some  turning  out  to  perfection  and  others  proving  less  pala- 
table than  when  cooked  in  the  pan.  But  eggs  in  every  style,  fish, 
entrees  and  roasts  are  always  delicious,  and  it  is  here  that  the 
epicurean  though  frugal  housekeeper  will  reap  the  many  profits  of 
paper  bag  cookery. 

EMILE  BAILLY. 

St.  Regis  Hotel,  October  14,  1911. 


General  Directions 

PAPER  bag  cookery  is  done  in  the  oven.  Gas  fires,  electric  stoves 
or  oil  stoves  are  all  equally  efficacious,  but  the  time  varies  and 
must  be  learned  by  experience.  A  wire  grid  must  always 
be  used  in  the  oven  under  the  bag,  in  order  that  the  heat  may  circu- 
late. Each  bag  must  be  well  inspected  before  using,  to  make  sure 
that  there  are  no  holes.  Use  a  light  brush  to  paint  the  interior  of 
the  bag  with  drawn  butter  before  placing  the  food  inside.  Dripping 
or  good  olive  oil  may  also  be  used. 

The  heat  of  the  oven  should  at  first  be  about  300  degrees  Fahren- 
heit. If  there  is  not  an  oven  thermometer  attached  use  the  ordinary 
white  paper  test,  and  if  it  turns  brown  at  once  the  oven  is  right. 
With  a  gas  fire  take  out  the  grid  shelf  and  turn  the  gas  on  full  for 
eight  minutes  before  using  the  oven.  Leave  it  three  parts  on  for  five 
minutes  after  putting  the  dish  in  the  oven,  then  turn  the  gas  half 
down  during  the  rest  of  the  cooking.  This  will  reduce  the  heat  to 
about  200  degrees,  which  is  the  proper  temperature  for  paper  bag 
cookery,  on  the  average. 

Several  dishes  can  be  cooked  at  the  same  time  in  separate  bags. 
The  bags  retain  everything,  and  there  is  no  possibility  of  flavors 
intermingling.  Bags  cannot  be  used  twice,  for,  after  being  in  the 
oven  they  crumple  and  tear  very  easily.  In  cases  where  a 
brown  surface  is  required,  such  as  for  chicken,  duck  and  similar 
game,  break  open  the  top  of  the  paper  bag  or  prick  it  with  a  wooden 
skewer  about  ten  or  fifteen  minutes  before  taking  it  out  of  the  oven. 


THE   SUNDAY    AMERICAN'S 


It  is  also  advisable  when  cooking  pastry  to  prick  the  top  of  the  bag. 
This  will  help  to  give  the  food  a  delicate,  golden  brown. 

Always  slide  the  bag  and  its  contents  on  to  a  hot  dish;  then  slit 
the  bag  with  a  pair  of  clean  scissors,  kept  specially  for  the  purpose, 
and  draw  away  the  paper  carefully.  To  avoid  any  possible  leakage, 
close  the  bag  by  folding  down  the  top  (the  open  end),  fold  over 
three  times,  fasten  with  a  clip,  and  turn  up  the  bottom  corners  of 
the  bag.  Keep  the  bags  well  away  from  the  gas  jet;  otherwise  they 
are  apt  to  scorch  and  burn. 

Although  the  bags  are  waterproof,  they  will  hold  only  a  small 
quantity  of  liquid  safely. 

In  order  to  prevent  any  possibility  of  the  paper  bag  breaking  or 
bursting,  either  before  or  after  being  placed  in  the  oven,  the  follow- 
ing hints  should  be  observed: 

Select  the  size  bag  that  will  conveniently  hold  the  food  intended 
to  be  cooked  in  it.  Examine  carefully  to  see  if  there  is  the  slightest 
rent  or  break.  If  so,  paste  over  with  white  of  egg  or  a  paste  made 
with  flour  and  water.  The  least  hole  m  the  bag  is  certain  to  in- 
crease in  size  when  placed  m  a  heated  atmosphere,  thus  causing  loss 
of  gravy  or  juice  from  food. 

Cut,  saw  or  trim  off  all  projecting  sharp  bones,  fins  or  pro- 
truding edges  from  food  that  are  likely  to  tear  the  paper  before 
placing  it  in  the  bags.  Without  this  precaution  meat  or  poultry  is 
likely  to  cause  incisions  in  the  bag  perhaps  unknown  to  the  cook. 

After  greasing  the  bag,  and  when  the  food  necessary  for  the 
dish  has  been  inserted,  fold  the  open  end  several  times  and  fasten 
with  one  or  more  paper  wire-clips,  or  with  small,  thin  wooden 
skewers,  so  as  to  seal  hermetically  the  bag.  It  is  a  good  plan  to 
fold  in  also  the  corners  at  the  bottom  of  the  bag  to  insure  against 
leakage. 

The  paper  bag,  when  filled  with  the  food  and  ready  for  cooking, 
must  be  placed  in  the  oven  on  a  so-called  grid  shelf,  such  as  is 
usually  provided  in  gas  cooking  stoves. 

After  the  first  15  or  20  minutes — that  is,  when  the  cooking  has 
sufficiently  advanced — the  heat  of  the  oven  must  be  slightly  reduced 
until  the  food  is  quite  cooked  and  tender. 

For  flat  fish  allow  from  10  to  15  minutes  to  the  pound  for  it  to 
be  tender  and  fit  to  serve.  Small  fillets  need  only  8  to  10 
minutes,  while  practically  all  roast  meats  require  20  to  25  minutes  to 
the  pound.  Stews  will  take  45  to  60  minutes;  chicken  and  duck,  35 
to  40  minutes,  but  small  birds  should  cook  only  15  to  20  minutes. 
Sausages,  ham,  liver  and  bacon  and  kidney  need  but  8  to  10  minutes. 

Vegetable  stews  and  vegetables  must  be  cooked  25  to  30  minutes. 
Finally,  all  sweets,  including  pastry,  rissoles  and  patties  require  from 
15  to  20  minutes.  When  cooking  milk  puddings  in  paper  bags  the 
p'-  "  rnz  — ust  be  made  in  the  ordinary  way  in  a  shallow  pie  dish. 
This  is  then  slipped  in,  and  the  bag  is  folded  and  fastened  as  usual. 

if  the  bags  are  put  on  a  hot  baking  sheet  the  cooking  will  be  a 
failure,  because  it  is  necessary  for  the  hot  air  to'  circulate  and  com- 
pletely surround  the  food,  or  the  bags  will  burst  as  soon  as  they  are 


PAPER    BAG   COOK   BOOK 


laid  on  a  hot,  solid  surface.  In  a  gas  oven  it  must  be  remembered 
that  the  lower  grid  must  not  be  put  in  the  lowest  groove,  or  the 
bags  will  catch  fire  from  being  too  near  the  flame.  The  top  grid 
should  be  put  in  the  groove  nearest  the  top  of  the  oven,  if  that 
will  allow  the  bags  to  lie  conveniently  on  it,  and  the  second  grid  as 
near  the  first  as  may  be  convenient.  Sometimes,  when  people  are 
living  in  apartments,  there  is  a  supply  of  gas,  but  no  cooker.  In 
such  a  case  it  would  be  easy  to  buy  a  gas  ring  and  tubing  and  attach 
it  to  a  gas  jet.  Over  the  ring  a  tin  oven  should  be  placed,  and  it 
will  be  found  that  a  paper  bag  dinner  can  then  be  prepared  most 
successfully. 

At  the  end  of  the  specified  time  a  peep  into  the  oven  will  reve-i 
the  array  of  paper  bags  probably  well  browned,  but  not  burned.  If 
there  has  been  the  slightest  smell  of  burning  paper  it  should  at  once 
be  investigated  and  the  gas  reduced.  After  removing  the  food  from 
the  oven  a  pair  of  scissors  should  be  at  hand  to  slit  open  the  bag, 
which  must  then  be  destroyed,  leaving  the  nicely  browned,  perfectly 
cooked  viand  on  the  dish.  There  will  be  very  little  gravy,  as  that, 
of  course,  is  the  juice  of  the  meat,  and  the  claim  of  the  paper  bag 
cookery  is  that  it  seals  up  the  juices  WITHIN  the  meat.  On  no 
account  add  water  to  the  few  spoonfuls  of  rich,  strong  gravy  in  the 
dish,  for  that  would  completely  spoil  the  delicious  flavor.  In  families 
where  much  gravy  is  desired  it  must  be  made  separately  with  a  little 
stock,  browned  and  thickened.  The  potatoes  can  then  be  turned  out 
of  their  paper  bag  into  a  hot  dish,  and  the  same  process  can  be 
followed  with  the  other  vegetables.  Cauliflower  requires  gentler 
handling.  Its  bag  should  be  slit,  and  it  should  be  slid  carefully  into 
a  dish  filled  with  white,  hot  sauce  ready  prepared.  The  pudding 
may  be  left  in  the  oven,  the  gas  turned  very  low,  so  that  it  may 
keep  hot,  but  not  cook  any  longer,  until  it  is  required.  Thus  an 
entire  meal,  with  the  exception  of  the  soup,  is  cooked  and  ready  to 
serve  through  the  paper  bag  system. 

The  most  distinctive  of  American  culinary  processes,  the  clam- 
bake or  fishbake,  has  long  utilized  the  paper  bag  in  the  production 
of  some  of  its  most  delectable  courses.  It  may  be  a  fish  or  a  meat 
course.  "Weakfish  are  cleaned  and  salted  and  then  carefully  wrapped 
in  thick  manila  paper,  or  Frankfort  sausages  may  be  treated  in  the 
same  way.  Dozens  of  these  rolls  are  placed  on  the  hot  rock  where 
the  bake  fire  has  been  started  and  then  covered  with  seaweed.  At 
the  right  moment  they  are  carried  to  the  table  and  each  diner  is 
served  with  a  delicious,  steaming  hot  fish  or  sausage,  dropped  onto 
his  plate  from  the  paper.  By  this  process  none  of  the  flavor  is  lost 
from  the  fish  or  sausage.  The  paper  becomes  oiled  with  the  fish  and 
its  pores  practically  filled,  so  that  no  steam  escapes  through  them. 
The  flesh  is  thus  peculiarly  tender  and  tasty. 

In  general,  it  may  be  stated  that  there  are  less  dangers  to  be 
avoided  in  paper  bag  cookery  than  in  any  other  method.  Here  it 
is  not  necessary  to  open  the  oven  door  every  once  in  a  while  to 
baste  the  food  or  to  see  how  the  cooking  is  progressing.  The  oven 
can  be  relied  upon  to  do  its  work  thoroughly,  as  the  whole  force  of 


6  THE   SUNDAY  AMERICAN'S 

the  heat  surrounds  the  bag  and  cooks  the  food  to  a  turn.  But  the 
oven  must  always  be  opened  cautiously,  as  a  draught  from  a  door  or 
window  may  easily  ignite  a  bag  from  the  gas  burner  and  thus  destroy 
the  food  if  not  removed  immediately  and  placed  in  a  new  bag.  In 
removing  the  bag  from  the  oven  a  plate  should  be  placed  gently 
underneath  and  the  bag  withdrawn  to  the  plate  with  the  fingers,  cut 
open  and  thrown  away  at  once. 


Remember  These  "Don'ts" 

1. — DON'T  forget  to  examine  each  bag  carefully  before  using,  and 
if  any  possible  rent,  tear  or  tendency  to  become  unfastened  is 
discovered  to  repair  the  defect  with  white  of  egg  or  a  little 
paste  made  with  flour  and  water. 

2. — DON'T  omit  to  brush  over  the  inside  of  each  bag  thoroughly 
with  clarified  butter,  clarified  dripping,  lard,  or  good  olive  oil. 

3. — DON'T  fail  to  cut,  saw  or  trim  off  all  projecting  sharp  bones, 
fins  or  pointed  skewers,  such  as  are  likely  to  pierce  the  paper 
bag. 

4. — DON'T  forget,  when  once  the  food  has  been  placed  in  the  proper 
sized  bag,  to  fold  over  at  least  twice  the  opening  of  the  bag,  and 
fasten  with  wire  clips;  to  turn  down  both  corners,  and  secure 
also  with  a  wire  clip. 

5. — DON'T  put  the  loaded  bag  on  a  hot  grid,  trivet  or  shelf  in  the 
oven;  place  it  on  a  cold  grid  on  the  hot  oven  shelf. 

6. — DON'T  forget  to  remove  the  top  portion  of  the  paper  bag  a  few 
minutes  before  the  meat  is  done  when  a  joint  or  bird  is  required 
to  be  nicely  browned. 

7. — DON'T  forget  to  ascertain  the  correct  heat  of  the  oven  before 
putting  in  the  food. 

8. — DON'T  place  the  paper  bag  in  too  hot  an  oven,  or,  in  the  case 
of  a  gas  oven,  too  near  the  gas  jets,  so  as  to  cause  the  paper  to 
scorch  or  burn. 

9. — DON'T  attempt  to  economize  when  once  a  bag  is  scorched;  re- 
move it  at  once  and  put  the  food  in  a  fresh  bag. 

10. — DON'T  forget  to  use  a  wire  trivet  or  grid  to  support  the  bag  in 
every  case,  whether  the  oven  shelf  be  of  the  "solid"  or  "open- 
bar"  variety,  whether  the  cooking  be  done  by  gas,  coal,,  oil  or 
electricity. 

11. — DON'T  omit  when  baking  pastry  to  punch  or  pierce  a  few  small 
holes  here  and  there  in  the  end  of  the  bag  with  a  skewer  or  the 
prongs  of  a  fork;  this  will  insure  the  pastry  acquiring  a  golden 
brown. 

12. — DON'T  spill  or  otherwise  waste  any  liquor  or  gravy  retained  in 
the  bag  in  which  certain  kinds  of  food  is  cooked;  it  is  valu- 
able and  should  be  made  good  use  of. 

13.^_DON'T  forget  to  dish  up  all  foods  neatly;  put  the  whole  bag  as 
it  leaves  the  oven  on  a  large  dish,  cut  or  break  the  paper  and 
place  the  food  carefully  on  a  dish. 


PAPER    BAG    COOK    BOOK 


Fish  Recipes. 


COD,    salmon,    halibut    or    any    other    kind    of   fish    suitable    for 
boiling  can  be  cooked  successfully  in  a  paper  bag.    After  clean- 
ing,   trimming    and    wiping    the    fish    thoroughly,    butter    the 
inside   ot   a    paper   bag   of    suitable    size;   then   put   in  the   fish,   with 
one    or   two    slices   of    onion    and    carrot,    a    little    vinegar    or    lemon 
juice  and  enough  salted  water  to  moisten  the  fish  well.     Allow  abou 
a  pint  of  water  to  two  pounds  of  fish.     Fold  in  the  end  of  the  ba^ 
with   two    folds,    then    fasten    with    several    wire    clips    and    place    it 
carefully  onto  a  cold  wire  tray  or  grid  and  put  it  in  the   oven  to 
cook. 

The  oven  should  register  about  225  degrees  when  the  fish  is  put 
on.  The  time  required  for  cooking  depends  greatly  on  the  shape 
and  thickness  of  the  fish.  Two  pounds  of  cod  will  take  about  25  to 
30  minutes. 

To  serve  take  out  the  bag  carefully  with  the  grid;  slit  the  paper 
and  lift  out  the  fish  with  a  fish  slice  or  small  skimmer  and  place  it 
on  a  hot  dish.  Garnish  with  sprigs  of  parsley  and  serve. 

BAKED  HERRINGS. 

Remove  the  heads  from  three  or  four  fresh  herrings.  Split  them 
open  and  take  out  the  backbones.  Season  the  inside  with  salt  and 
pepper  and  dip  them  in  a  little  milk  and  dredge  with  Scotch  oatmeal. 
Melt  some  fat  and  with  it  brush  over  'the  prepared  herrings.  Then 
place  them  side  by  side  in  a  paper  bag,  fasten  the  end  and  cook  on  a 
wire  grid  or  perforated  shelf  in  a  hot  oven  for  about  10  minutes. 
Dish  up  and  serve. 

BAKED   MACKEREL. 

Procure  a  good-sized  mackerel,  wipe  it  with  a  damp  cloth,  split 
it  open  and  remove  the  bones,  also  the  head  and  fins.  Prepare  a 
stuffing  composed  of  two  ounces  of  chopped  beef  suet,  two  to  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  bread  crumbs,  one  teaspoonful  of  savory  herbs 
and  some  chopped  parsley.  Spread  the  inside  of  the  mackerel  with 
this,  fold  over  and  put  the  fish  in  a  greased  paper  bag,  pour  a  little 
oiled  butter  over  the  fish  and  fasten  the  bag  securely.  Bake  on  a 
wire  grid  in  a  moderate  oven  for  about  25  minutes.  Dish  up  and 
serve  plain  or  with  anchovy  sauce. 

FILETS  OF  MACKEREL. 

Procure  two  good-sized  mackerel,  wipe  them  and  carefully 
remove  the  fish  from  the  bones.  Place  the  filets  thus  obtained  in  a 
deep  dish,  season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  a  little  lemon  juice,  then 
pour  over  a  tablespoonful  of  vinegar  and  add  a  few  thinly  cut  slices 
of  carrot  and  onion  and  one  bay  leaf.  Cover  the  dish  and  allow  to 
stand  for  about  half  an  hour.  Take  up  the  fish  and  drain  on  a 
cloth.  Put  the  cut  vegetables  in  a  well-buttered  grease-proof  paper 
bag,  and  upon  them  place  the  filets  of  fish,  skin  downwards,  then. 


8  THE    SUNDAY   AMERICAN'S 

brush  over  with  a  little  oil  or  butter.  Fold  over  the  end  of  the  b^g, 
fasten  with  clips  and  cook  in  a  quick  oven  on  a  grid  or  trivet  from 
8  to  10  minutes.  Take  out  the  bag,  remove  the  fish  on  to  a  hot  dish, 
put  a  little  neatly  shaped  parsley  butter  on  top  of  each.  Garnish 
with  thin  slices  of  lemon  and  sprigs  of  parsley  and  serve. 

PARSLEY   BUTTER. 

Mix  one  ounce  of  fresh  butter  with  a  teaspoonful  of  chopped 
parsley,  a  saltspoonful  of  chopped  mixed  tarragon  and  chervil,  a 
teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice  and  a  pinch  of  salt  and  pepper.  Spread 
on  a  plate,  put  on  the  ice  and  shape  into  pats  when  quite  firm. 

COD  STEAKS  WITH  HAM. 

Procure  two  slices  of  cod,  each  weighing  from  half  to  three- 
quarters  of  a  pound.  Wipe  it  and  place  on  a  buttered  dish.  Prepare 
a  mixture  of  bread  crumbs,  savory  herbs  and  parsley  and  bind  it 
with  a  little  beaten  egg.  Place  this  upon  each  slice  of  fish  and  season 
with  salt  and  pepper.  Put  a  slice  of  raw  ham  or  lean  bacon  on  top 
of  «ach,  then  place  the  fish  in  a  well-greased  paper  bag,  fold  the 
end  and  fasten  with  clips.  Put  the  bag  on  a  grid  shelf  in  a  fairly  hot 
oven.  Bake  for  about  20  minutes.  Dish  up  and,  if  liked,  pour  round 
some  anchovy  sauce,  and  serve. 

FILETS  OF  FLOUNDER. 

Remove  the  filets  from  a  medium-sized  flounder,  tut  eac.  filet 
in  two,  season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  sprinkle  over  a  little  lemon 
juice;  fold  each  filet  in  two  or  roll  up  (skin  inwards).  Put  a  small 
piece  of  butter  on  top  of  each  and  place  carefully  in  a  buttered 
paper  bag,  fasten  the  ends  with  clips,  and  cook  for  about  10  minutes 
on  a  wire  grid  in  a  hot  oven.  Cut  open  the  bag  and  lift  out  .the 
fish  carefully  on  to  a  hot  dish.  Garnish  with  sprigs  of  parsley  and 
serve. 

STUFFED  HADDOCK. 

Wash,  scale  and  wipe  a  good-sized  fresh  haddock;  remove  the 
eyes.  Prepare  a  stuffing  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  chopped  suet, 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  bread  crumbs,  half  teaspoonful  of  herbs,  one 
teaspoonful  of  chopped  parsley  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Moisten  the  stuffing  with  half  an  egg.  Stuff  the  body  of  the  fish 
and  sew  up  the  opening  or  simply  fold  in  ends.  Brush  it  over  with 
beaten  egg  and  sprinkle  over  some  browned  bread  crumbs  and  place 
a  few  very  small  pieces  of  dripping,  wrap  carefully  in  greased  paper 
bag,  fold  the  end  and  fasten  with  wire  clips  and  place  on  a  wire  grid 
Jin  the  oven.  Bake  in  a  fairly  hot  oven  from  25  to  30  minutes,  accord- 
ing to  size  of  fish.  Dish  up,  remove  the  string  and  serve. 

FILETS   OF  HADDOCK. 

Cut  the  filets  neatly  from  a  good-sized  fresh  haddock,  cut  each 
filet  in  two,  season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  sprinkle  over  a  little 
lemon  juice.  Put  a  small  piece  of  butter  on  top  of  each  filet  and 
place  carefully  in  a  well-buttered  pap«r  bag,  fold  in  twice,  fasten 
the  ends  with  clips  and  cook  for  about  10  minutes  on  a  wire  grid  in 
a  hot  oven. 


PAPER    BAG    COOK  BOOK  9 

FILETS  OF  HADDOCK  WITH  ANCHOVY  BUTTER. 

Procure  a  large  haddock,  remove  the  filet  s  and  skin  carefully. 
Wipe  them  with  a  cloth,  squeeze  over  a  little  lemon  juice,  then 
dredge  both  sides  with  seasoned  flour  (flour  mixed  with  salt  and 
pepper).  Sprinkle  over  with  clarified  butter  and  place  the  filets  in  a 
well-buttered  paper  bag,  fold  in  the  ends  and  fasten  with  clips,  then 
cook  on  a  grid  shelf  in  a  hot  oven  from  10  to  12  minutes.  Take  up 
the  fish,  range  on  a  hot  dish,  put  a  small  pat  of  anchovy  butter  on 
top  of  each  filet,  garnish  with  sprigs  of  parsley  and  serve. 

FRIED  FILETS  OF  SOLE. 

Remove  the  skin  and  fins  from  two  soles,  cut  off  the  head  por- 
tion, dip  the  fish  fillets  in  milk  and  then  in  flour.  Put  them  in  a 
well-buttered  paper  bag  with  about  two  ounces  of  clarified  butter, 
fold  in  the  end  of  the  bag  and  fasten  with  clips,  place  on  a  wire 
grid  and  cook  in  a  very  hot  oven  for  about  twenty  minutes.  Turn 
the  bag  twice  during  the  cooking  process.  Take  up  the  fish,  drain 
and  dish  up.  Garnish  with  quarters  of  lemon  and  sprigs  of  parsley 
and  serve. 

SOUCHET  OF  FISH. 

This  can  be  made  of  flounder  or  sole,  or  any  other  kind  of  white 
fish.  If  soles  are  used  they  must  be  skinned  on  both  sides.  Trim 
the  fish  and  wipe  it  thorbughly.  Peel  one  small  onion,  half  a  small 
turnip,  a  small  carrot,  and  cut  each  into  thin  slices,  then  into  fine 
julienne  strips.  Put  the  fish  with  the  vegetables  in  a  well-buttered 
paper  bag.  The  fish  should  be  put  between  the  vegetables.  Add  as 
much  salted  water  as  may  be  required  to  well  moisten  the  fish  (half 
to  three-quarters,  of  a  pint).  Fold  in  the  bag  and  fasten  with  clips, 
turn  up  the  corners  and  put  it  carefully  on  a  grid  shelf  into  a 
moderate  oven.  It  will  take  about  half  an  hour  to  40  minutes  to  cook 
the  fish  and  vegetables.  Take  out  the  fish,  put  it  on  a  hot  dish  and 
sprinkle  over  the  vegetables  and  a  little  stock.  Sprinkle  over  some 
chopped  parsley  and  garnish  with  slices  of  lemon. 

FISH  CAKES. 

Take  half  a  pound  of  cold  fish,  freed  from  skin  and  bones,  half 
pound  of  cooked  potatoes,  one  ounce  of  butter  or  dripping,  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  milk,  salt  and  pepper,  one  egg  and  bread  crumbs. 
Chop  the  fish  finely.  Mash  the  potatoes  and  mix  them  with  the  fish, 
season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Melt  the  butter  or  dripping,  add  the 
fish,  etc.,  to  it,  then  mix  all  together  with  the  milk.  Shape  the  mix- 
ture into  small  flat  cakes  of  even  size.  Beat  up  the  egg  on  a  plate, 
then  egg  and  bread-crumb  the  cakes  and  again  shape.  Now  put  them 
into  a  well-buttered  paper  bag,  close  up  the  end  and  fasten  with 
wire  clips.  Put  into  a  very  hot  oven  on  a  grid  shelf  and  cook  for 
about  20  minutes.  Turn  the  bag  twice  during  the  cooking  process. 
Cut  open  the  bag  with  scissors  and  place  the  fish  cakes  on  to  a  hot 
dish.  Garnish  with  sprigs  of  parsley  and  serve. 

FISH  PIE. 

Mash  about  a  pound  of  potatoes  while  hot  and  mix  with  two 
ounces  of  butter  and  about  two  tablespoonfuls  of  milk,  season  with 


10  THE  SUNDAY  AMERICAN'S 

salt  and  pepper  and  a  grate  of  nutmeg  and  mix  well.  Free  about  a 
pound  of  cold  cooked  fish  from  skin  and  bone,  flake  it  finely  and  put 
it  into  a  greased  shallow  pie  dish  previously  lined  with  mashed 
potatoes;  season  the  fish  with  salt  and  pepper.  Pour  in  half  a  gill 
of  fish  stock,  or,  if  there  is  any  fish  sauce  left  over,  it  may  be  used 
instead  of  stock.  Cover  the  dish  neatly  with  mashed  potatoes, 
smooth  the  surface  with  a  fork  and  make  a  fancy  pattern,  brush  over 
lightly  with  some  beaten  egg.  Slip  the  dish  into  a. paper  bag,  fold  in 
the  end  of  the  bag  and  fasten  with  clips  and  bake  on  a  grid  shelf  in 
a  moderately  heated  oven  from  25  to  30  minutes. 

Note. — Almost  any  kind  of  fish  may  be  used  for  this  dish.  In 
place  of  stock  milk  may  be  used. 

TWICE   LAID. 

This  is  the  name  of  a  dish  in  which  cold  fish  and  potatoes  are 
used. 

Mash  about  a  pound  of  cold  potatoes  with  a  fork,  remove  the 
skin  and  bones  from  half  a  pound  of  cold  fish  and  break  it  up  into 
flakes.  Mix  with  the  potatoes  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Melt 
an  ounce  of  dripping;  when  hot  mix  it  with  the  fish  and  potatoes 
and  shape  into  a  flat  cake.  Place  this  is  a  well-greased  paper  bag, 
fold  the  end  and  fasten  with  clips.  Put  it  on  a  wire  grid  and  bake 
in  a  fairly  hot  oven  for  about  20  minutes. 

CREAMED  OYSTERS. 

Remove  *ihe  beards  from  a  dozen  large  oysters.  Stir  the  liquor 
into  a  basin  containing  a  yolk  of  egg  and  a  dessertspoonful  of 
flour.  To  this  add  a  little  lemon  juice  and  half  a  gill  of  cream  or 
milk.  Season  with  salt,  pepper  and  nutmeg.  Cut  each  oyster  in  two 
and  put  them  with  six  sliced  mushrooms  in  a  well-buttered  paprr 
bag;  pour  in  also  the  prepared  liquid.  Close  up  the  bag  securely 
with  ".lips,  put  it  on  a  wire  grid  in  a  moderately  heated  oven  and 
cook  for  .bout  12  minutes.  Dish  up  the  oysters,  pour  over  the 
sauce,  sprinkle  some  chopped  parsley  on  top  and  garnish  with  slices 
of  lemon  and  pieces  of  toasted  bread.  Serve  hot. 

BREADED   OYSTERS. 

Remove  the  beards  from  twelve  large  oysters,  drain  them  on  a 
cloth  and  egg  them  carefully,  then  roll  in  fresh  bread  crumbs.  Put 
them  in  a  thickly  buttered  paper  bag  with  about  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  oiled  butter.  Close  up  the  bag  securely  and  cook  on  a  grid  shell 
in  a  hot  oven  for  about  eight  minutes. 

OYSTER  CAKES. 

Take  a  dozen  large  sauce  oysters,  remove  their  beards,  and  put 
these  with  the  oyster  liquid  into  a  basin  and1  mix  up  with  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  rich  white  sauce.  Add  a  little  cream  and  stir  in 
one  or  two  yolks  of  eggs  and  a  cupful  of  bread  crumbs  or  finely 
crushed  cracknels  or  milk  biscuits.  Divide  the  oysters  into  quarters 
and  mix  with  the  above,  season  to  taste  with  salt,  pepper  and  a 
pinch  of  cayenne.  Whisk  the  whites  of  two  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth  and 
incorporate  with  the  above,  Put  the  mixture  into  one  or  two  small. 


PAPER  BAG   COOK  BOOK  11 

well-buttered  paper  bags,  duly  fastened  at  end,  and  bake  on  a  wire 
grid  in  a  fairly  hot  oven  for  about  20  minutes.     Slit  open  the  bags  • 
and  take  out  the  cakes,  put  them  on  a  hot  dish,  garnish  with  parsley 
and  slices  of  lemon  and  serve. 

'FISH  SAUCES. 

The  liquor  or  stock  from  the  fish  should  be  utilized  for  making 
a  tasty  sauce.  Strain  the  required  quantity  of  liquor  into  a  hot 
basin  and  stir  in  enough  cream  to  thicken.  If  liked  richer,  one  or 
two  yolks  of  eggs  should  be  stirred  into  the  cream  before  mixing  it 
with  the  fish  liquor.  This  would  be  called  cream  sauce.  By  adding 
a  little  anchovy  essence,  anchovy  sauce  is  produced,  while^  by  add- 
ing some  chopped  parsley  maitre  d'hotel  or  parsley  sauce  is  pro- 
duced. Salt  and  pepper  should  be  added  to  taste. 

SALMON  WITH  RED  WINE. 

Take  one  large  fresh  salmon  and  cut  into  slices  an  inch  thick.     Add 
a  pinch  of  salt  and  of  pepper,  and  roll  in  flour.     Put  the  slices  into  a 
bag,  and  cover  with  half  a  Bordeaux  glass  of  red  wine,  foui  mushrooms 
cut  into  small  pieces,  a  piece  of  butter  size  of  an  egg  and  two  table-v, 
spoonfuls  of  fish  stock.     Close  the  bag  and  cook  for  35  minutes. 

FILET  OF  FLOUNDER  WITH  WHITE  WINE. 

Cut  from  a  good-sized  flounder  half  a  pound  of  the  best  filet.  Add  a 
pinch  of  salt  and  Of  pepper.  Put  into  a  bag  with  half  a  glass  of  white 
wine«and  two  teaspoons  of  fish  stock.  Cook  20  minutes. 

FILET  OF  BLUEFISH. 

Salt  and  pepper  and  roll  in  flour  one  large  bluefish,  cut  into  slices 
two  inches  thick.  Mince  very  fine  one  small  onion,  and  sprinkle  over 
each  piece.  Add  half  a  pint  of  fish  stock,  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  and 
a  piece  of  butter  size  of  an  egg.  Close  the  bag^and  cook  40  minutes. 

HADDOCK  IN  CREAM. 

Take  half  a  pound  of  haddock,  roll  in  flour,  and  add  a  pinch  of 
pepper.  Stir  in  half  a  pint  of  thick  cream,  with  a  piece  of  butter  size 
of  an  egg.  Place  in  a  bag  and  cook  for  35  minutes. 

SMELTS  SUR  LE  PLAT, 

Clean  and  wash  carefully  six  smelts,  add  a  pinch  of  salt  and. of  pep- 
per, and  roll  in  flour.  Add.  one  small  onion,  chopped  fine,  three  table- 
spoons offish  stock,  a  dash  of  lemon  juice  and  a  piece  of  butter  size  of  an 
egg.  Place  in  a  bag. and  cook  for  15  minutes. 

FRESH  SPANISH  MACKEREL  IN  BUTTER. 

Cut  half  a  pound  of  choice  filet  of  mackerel,  and  add  pinches  of  salt 
and  pepper.  Put  into  the*  bag,  cover  with  fresh  bread  crumbs,  and 
pour  drawn  butter  over  the  whole.  Seal  the  bag.  and  let  cook  for  20 
minutes, 

CRAB  MEAT  AU  GRATIN. 

Put  half  a  pound  of  crab  meat  into  a  saucepan.  Add  a  piece  of 
butter  3ize  of  an  egg  and  three  tablespoons  of  thick  cream.  Sprinkle 
salt  and  pepper  to, taste.  Place  in  a  bag  and  cover  the  meat  thickly 


12  THE   SUNDAY   AMERICAN'S 

all  over  with  equal  parts  of  cheese  gratings  and  bread  crumbs.     Cook 
for  20  minutes. 

WHITEFISH  DUGLERE. 

Salt  and  pepper  and  roll  in  flour  one  large  whitefish,  add  one  small 
onion  chopped  fine,  two  or  three  sprigs  of  parsley,  and  two  tomatoes 
skinned,  seeded  and  chopped.  Put  into  bag,and$cook  25  minutes. 

MATELOTE  OF  EEL 

Skin  two  or  three  medium-sized  eels  and  cut  into  pieceathree  inches 
lone;.  Salt  and  pojpper  and  roll  in  flour.  Add  12  whole  mushrooms 
and  i  2  very  small  onions.  Cut  into  cubes  18  small  potatoes?  and  add  to 
the  whole  a  glass  of  red  or  white  wine,  half  a  glass  of  fish  stock,  two  or 
three  sprigs  of  parsley,  a  small  bunch  of  thyme  and  half  a  bay  leaf. 
Tie  the  herbs  together  in  a  bunch.  Put  into  a  bag  and  cook  for  50 
minutes. 

SPANISH  MACKEREL  WITH  TOMATOES. 

Put  into  a  saucepan  a  piece  of  butter  size  of  an  egg;  add  one  medium- 
sized  onion  chopped,  then  three  tomatoes,  skinned,  seeded  and  chopped. 
Salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Cook  for  five  minutes.  Then  put  a  large 
mackerel  into  the  bag,  cover  with  the  above  ragout,  and  let  cook  35 
minutes. 

K'IN'GFISH  WITH  EGG  PLANT. 

Brown  in  the  pan  one  small  onion  in  butter.     Add  the  egg  plant 
rcut  into  half-inch  cubes,  with  two  tablespoons  of^  ketchup.     Cook  10 
to  15  minutes,  then  salt  and  pepper.     Put  the  fish  into  the  bag,  add  the 
above  ragout,  and  cook  25  minutes. 

FILET  OF  STRIPED  BASS  MEUNIERE. 

Cut  a  choice  filet  weighing  about  a  pound;  salt,  pepper  and  dust  in 
flour.  Pour  over  drawn  butter,  and  before  sealing  the  bag  add  more 
butter,  size  of  an  egg.  Cook  for  1 5  minutes. 

SEA  BASS  DIABLE. 

Salt,  pepper,  and  roll  in  flour  a  pound  of  fresh  sea  bass.  Sprinkle 
with  mustard,  flour  and  the  juice  of  two  slices  of  lemon.  Pour  over 
drawn  butter,  put  into  the  bag  and  cook  from  15  to  20  minutes. 

B'LUEFISH  FILET  WITH  OYSTERS. 

Take  a  pound  of  the  filet,  and  salt,  pepper,  and  roll  in  flour.  With 
a  dozen  or  15  oysters  do  the  same.  With  the  oysters,  however,  use  less 
salt  and  more  pepper.  Put  the  fish  into  the  bag  and  carefully  lay  the 
oysters  around  it.  Pour  over  the  whole  half  a  glass  of  white  wine  and 
half  a  glass  of  fish  stock.  Cook  for  20  minutes. 

WHITEFISH  NORMAIMDE. 

Make  a  ragout  of  8  whole  mushrooms,  10  very  small  onions,  8 
medium-sized  oysters,  half  a  glass  of  sweet  cider,  one  tablespoon  of 
brandy,  half  a  glass  of  fish  stock,  and  some  fine  herbs  tied  in  a  bunch. 
Salt,  pepper,  and  roll  in  flour  a  pound  of  choice  whitefish  filet.  Over 
this  spread  evenly  the  above  ragout,  and  cook  in  the  bag  for  30  minutes. 


PAPER   BAG   COOK  BOOK  13 

CODFISH  FINES  HERBES. 

Weigh  out  a  pound  of  codfish  steak,  and  having  salted  and  peppered 

/  to  taste,  dust  it  thoroughly  in  flour  and  put  into  the  cooking  bag.     Add 

|  a  dessertspoon  of  chopped  fine  herbs,  a  piece  of  butter  size  of  an  egg, 

I  half  a  glass  of  white  wine,  and  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon.     Close  the  bag 

and  let  cook  for  a  half  hour. 

FILET  OF  KINGFISH  DUGLERE. 

The  filet  must  be  well  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  then  roll 
in  flour.  To  a  pound  and  a  half  then  add  three  tomatoes,  cut  into 
quarters,  two  chopped  onions,  and  two  or  three  sprigs  of  parsley,  with 
a  piece  of  butter  size  of  an  egg.  Put  into  the  bag  and  pour  over  the 
whole  half  a  glass  of  white  wine.  Cook  for  20  minutes. 

LOBSTER  AU  FOUR. 

Take  a  two-pound  live  lobster  and  cut  it  in  half.  Break  the  large 
pincers,  salt  and  pepper,  and  add  two  or  three  chopped,  small  onions, 
a  small  bunch  of  fine  herbs,  and  a  piece  of  butter  size  of  an  egg.  Put 
into  the  bag  and  cook  for  30  minutes. 


Meat  Recipes. 


TRIM  the  meat,  if  necessary,  and  cut  off  any  projecting  bones,  as 
these  often  cause  the  paper  bags  to  burst.  Wipe  it  with  a 
cloth,  then  weigh  the  joint.  Allow  from  20  to  25  minutes  to 
each  pound  of  meat.  Veal  and  pork  require  a  little  more  time  than 
beef  or  mutton,  as  the  former  should  always  be  well  done.  Dredge 
the  cut  side  of  the  joint  with  flour  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper. 
Have  ready  the  correct  size  of  a  paper  bag.  Select  it  rather  too 
large  than  too  small,  so  that  there  is  no  possible  chance  of  its  break- 
ing when  the  joint  is  put  in.  After  spreading  a  little  dripping  or 
butter  over  the  meat  put  it  in  a  well-greased  paper  bag.  Fasten  the 
end  after  folding  it  with  several  wire  clips.  Next  place  it  on  a 
grid  shelf  in  a  hot  oven  and  cook  till  tender.  When  done  open  the 
bag  and  dish  up  the  meat.  Serve  with  gravy. 

The  time  required  for  cooking  depends  upon  the  size  and  weight 
of  the  joint.  It  is  safe  to  allow  about  20  minutes  to  every  pound. 
For  other  information  on  this  point  the  time  table  found  at  the 
beginning  of  this  book  should  be  consulted. 

GRAVY  'FOR  ROAST  MEATS. 

Pour  any  fat  found  in  the  bag  while  warm  into  a  basin,  which 
keep  for  future  use.  Pour  a  little  hot  water  or  stock  into  a  basin 
containing  the  liquor  from  the  roast  meat,  stand  it  in  the  hot  oven 
and  add  a  little  gravy  salt.  This  will  color  the  gravy.  Season  with 
pepper  and  salt  and  strain  over  the  meat  on  the  dish.  When  the 
joint  is  cut  some  of  its  juice  will  run  out  and  will  improve  the 
gravy  already  in  the  dish. 

BOILED   BEEF. 

Procure  about  two  pounds  of  salt  beef  and  soak  it  for  several 
hours  in  cold  water.  Peel  and  scrape  two  small  turnips  and  two 


14  THE   SUNDAY  AMERICAN'S 

carrots,  cut  them  into  quarters  and  put  them  with  the  meat  in  a  well- 
greased  bag  of  the  required  size.  Add  as  much  water  as  the  bag 
with  its  contents  will  conveniently  hold  and  fold  in  the  end,  fasten 
with  wire  clips  and  place  it  on  a  cold  wire  grid  into  a  moderately 
heated  oven.  Cook  thus  for  about  50  or  60  minutes.  When  done 
take  up  the  meat,  put  it  on  a  hot  dish,  garnish  with  the  cooked 
vegetables  and  pour  over  a  little  of  the  liquor.  Serve  with  boiled 
suet  dumplings. 

SUET  DUMPLINGS. 

Mix  six  ounces  of  sifted  flour  with  three  ounces  of  finely  chopped 
beef  suet  and  a  pinch  of  salt,  also  half  a  teaspoonful  of  baking 
powder.  Moisten  with  enough  cold  water  to  produce  a  fairly  stiff 
paste.  Make  this  up  into  small  balls  and  put  them  in  a  well-greased 
paper  bag  with  about  half  a  pint  of  water.  Fold  in  the  end  of  the 
bag  and  fasten  with  wire  clips,  place  it  on  a  wire  grid  in  a  hot  oven 
and  cook  for  about  35  to  40  minutes. 

CHOPS  AND  STEAKS. 

These  can  be  successfully  cooked  in  paper  bags.  Wipe  the  meat 
and  trim  off  some  of  the  fat,  if  found  necessary.  Chops  should  be 
skewered  to  keep  them  in  shape.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper  and 
brush  over  the  chops  or  steaks  with  oiled  butter.  Put  them  in  a 
well-greased  paper  bag,  place  them  on  a  grid  shelf  in  a  hot  oven  and 
cook  for  about  15  or  18  minutes,  according  to  the  thickness  of  the 
m'eat.  A  little  parsley  butter,  that  is,  gutter  mixed  with  salt  and 
pepper,  lemon  juice  and  chopped  parsley,  should  be  put  on  the  meat 
when  dished  up.  There  is  usually  a  little  gravy  in  the  bag  in  which 
chops  or  steaks  are  cooked.  This  should  be  poured  over  the  meat. 

PORK  SAUSAGES. 

Divide  a  pound  of  sausages  and  prick  them  with  the  prongs  of  a 
fork,  then  put  them  side  by  side  into  a  well-greased  paper  bag.  Close 
it  up  and  fasten  with  clips.  Place  on  a  wire  grid  and  cook  in  a 
fairly  hot  oven  for  about  15  minutes. 

MUTTON   CUTLETS. 

Cut  the  best  end  of  a  neck  of  mutton  into  neat  cutlets,  flatten 
each  and  trim  neatly.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  place  in  a 
well-buttered  paper  bag,  fold  in  the  ends,  fasten  with  clips  and  cook 
in  a  fairly  hot  oven  on  a  grid  shelf  from  12  to  15  minutes. 

MUTTON  CUTLETS  WITH  TOMATOES. 

Flatten  slightly  and  trim  neatly  six  or  more  mutton  cutlets,  sea- 
son each  side  with  salt  and  pepper  and  place  a  slice  of  tomato  upon 
each.  Sprinkle  over  with  chopped  parsley  and  chives,  then  put  the 
cutlets  carefully  into  one  or  more  buttered  paper  bags,  place  in  a 
very  hot  oven  on  a  grid  or  trivet  and  cook  from  12  to  15  minutes. 
To  serve,  cut  open  the  paper  bag  and  take  out  the  cutlets  carefully, 
arrange  them  on  a  hot  dish,  garnish  with  sprigs  of  parsley  and  send 
to  table. 

VEAL  CUTLETS, 

Procure  about  four  or  five  veal  cutlets  from  the  best  end  of  the 
neck  of  veal.  Flatten  with  a  cutlet  bat,  then  trim  the  sides  neatly 


PAPER   BAG   COOK  BOOK  15 

and  scrape  the  bones  clean,  season  each  with  salt  and  pepper.  Melt 
about  half  an  ounce  of  butter  and  add  to  it  about  a  teaspoonful  of 
finely  chopped  parsley,  one  small  peeled  and  finely  chopped  shallot 
and  a  little  lemon  juice.  Brush  over  each  side  of  the  cutlets  with 
this,  then  place  them  side  by  side  into  a  thickly  buttered  paper  bag, 
fold  in  and  fasten  the  ends,  then  put  the  bag  on  a  grid  shelf  or 
trivet  and  cook  in  a  hot  oven  from  18  to  20  minutes.  Slit  open  the 
bag  and  arrange  the  cutlets  neatly  on  a  hot  dish,  garnish  with 
parsley  and  quarters  of  lemon  and  serve  with  a  sharp  tomato  or 
piquante  sauce. 

Note. — If  liked,  a  few  finely  cut  slices  of  streaky  bacon  can  be 
cooked  at  the  same  time  as  the  cutlets.  These  can  be  placed  on  top 
of  the  cutlets  or  may  be  cooked  in  a  separate  bag. 

STEAMED  CHOP. 

Procure  two  or  three  mutton  or  lamb  chops  and  trim  each 
neatly,  cutting  off  the  superfluous  fat,  fold  in  the  ends  and  fasten 
with  a  skewer,  then  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  spread  over 
each  side  with  butter.  Place  the  chops  in  a  well-buttered  paper  bag 
with  a  few  slices  of  onion  and  carrot  and,  i£  liked,  a  few  pieces  ot 
celery  and  also  three  tablespoonfuls  of  water.  Close  up  the  ends  of 
the  bag  and  fasten  with  clips.  Then  cook  on  a  grid  or  trivet  in  a 
hot  oven  for  about  25  minutes.  Slit  open  the  bag,  take  out  the  chops 
and  remove  the  skewers,  arrange  the  chops  on  a  dish,  pour  over  any 
liquor  found  in  the  bag,  sprinkle  over  a  little  chopped  parsley  and 
serve  hot. 

A  dish  of  mashed  or  fried  potatoes  should  accompany  this  dish. 

FILET  OF  VEAL  (DUTCH  STYLE). 

Cut  a  few  filets  of  veal  into  individual  portions,  season  each  with 
salt  and  pepper,  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice.  Brush  lightly  with  melted 
butter  and  turn  in  sifted  bread  crumbs.  Put  in  a  buttered  bag  with  a 
teaspoonful  of  bouillon  or  stock,  fold  and  fasten  bag,  and  cook  in  mod- 
erately hot  oven  20  minutes. 

ROAST  BEEF  WITH  SWEET  POTATOES. 

Salt  and  pepper  to  taste  four  pounds  of  beef.  Slice  in  half  six  sweet 
potatoes,  and  put  all  into  the  bag.  Add  an  eighth  of  a  pound  of  butter, 
close  the  bag  and  cook  for  one  hour. 

ROAST  LEG  O'F  LAMB. 

Salt  and  pepper  the  roast  and  put  it  into  the  bag.  Add  a  quarter 
pound  of  butter,  close  the  bag,  and  let  cook  for  three-quarters  of  an  hour. 

BEEFSTEAK  PUDDING. 

Take  about  one  pound  of  beeksteak,  half  a  pound  of  Hour  and 
four  ounces  of  suet;  cut  the  meat  into  thin  slices  and  dip  into  a 
little  seasoned  flour,  previously  mixed  with  salt  and  pepper,  on  a 
plate.  Roll  up  each  with  a  small  piece  of  fat  inside.  Chop  the  suet 
finely,  mix  with  the  flour  and  a  pinch  of  salt;  make  into  a  stiff  paste 
with  about  a  gill  of  cold  water,  roll  put  and  line  with  it  a  greased, 
shallow  pudding  basin,  keeping  back  one-third  for  the  coyer;  lay  .in 
pieces  of  meat  and  season.  Pour  in  a  little  water,  moisten  the  edges 


Success  With  Paper- 
Absolutely  Upon  the 

Ordinary  paper  bags  will  not  do.  They  are  sure  tc 
make  the  rood  taste  of  paper.  The  special  papei 
bags  required  are  the  Union  Cookery  Bags—  the 
only  bags  made  in. America  especially  for  the  Soyer 

method  of  cooking.     Do  nof 

attempt    to    use    any    other! 

Inexpensive  and  marvelous^ 

simple. 


Food  prepared  for  cooking  10 
placed  in  bag. 


Fold  end  over  twice  and  fasten 
with  several  pins  or  paper  clips 


Place,  bag  on  gridjn  oven. 


UN 
CooKe 


Prepare  food  as  usual  and  put  into  a 
bag  of  proper  size.  Close  the  end 
tight  and  slip  bag  into  oven.  Needs 
no  further  care  until  the  necessary 
time  for  cooking  has  elapsed,  then  slip 
a  plate  under  bag  to  remove  it  from 
the  oven,  slit  open  the  top  of  the  bag 
with  a  knife,  and  the  food  will  be 
found  more  deliciously  cooked  than  i£ 
possible  in  any  other  way. 

Ask  Your  Grocer  to  Supply  Y< 
He  Buys  Ordi 

Be  Sure  You  Have  the  G* 
Bearing  Th 

THE  UNION  BAG  &  PAPER  CO. 


Cookery  Depends 
e  of  the  Proper  Bag* 


new  Soyer  method  of  cooking  in  fresh  germ- 
proof  Union  Cookery  Bags  gives  to  food  a  new  de- 
liciousness,  prevents  shrinkage  and  loss  of  flavors, 
saves  a  vast  amount  of  time,  labor  and  expense. 
Things  cook  in  less  time  and 
Bok  perfectly  —  no  greasy 
^ans  to  wash,  no  smell  of 
cooking  in  the  house. 


[ON 


To  remove.slip  plate  under  bag 


Bags 


• 

Everything  except  soups  and  beverages 
may  be  cooked  in  Union  Cookery  Bags. 
They  are  made  of  guaranteed  pure 
materials,  odorless  and  tasteless, 
moisture-proof,  germ-proof,  not  in- 
jured by  heat."  Airtight,  they  retain 
all  the  richness,  flavor  and  aroma  of 
the  food.  Self-basting,  self-browning. 
Made  in  all  needed  sizes.  Sold  in 
sealed,  sanitary  packages,  25  cents. 
Liberal  quantity  in  each  package. 

-He  Can  Get  Them  Wherever 
y  Paper  Bags. 

line  Union  Cookery  Bags 

$900  Whitehall  Mdg.,  New  York 


To  remove  food,   rip  open  bag. 


18  THE    SUNDAY    AMERICAN'S 

and  cover  the  top  with  paste;  tie  over  with  buttered  paper,  then 
place  it.  in  a  good-sized  bag  and  cook  m  hot  oven  for  about  an 
hour  and  three-quarters.  Remove  the  paper,  unmould  the  pudding 
and  dish  up,  or  serve  the  pudding  in  a  basin. 

BOILED   HAM. 

One  can  hardly  expect  to  get  a  large  ham  successsfully  cooked 
in  a  paper  bag,  but  a  portion,  say  about  half  a  ham,  or  a  small 
gammon,  can  be  cooked  to  perfection.  After  soaking  the  ham  or 
gammon  in  water  for  several  hours  wash  it  thoroughly  and  enclose 
it  in  a  well-greased  paper  bag  with  a  sufficiency  of  water.  Close  it 
up  securely  and  cook  on  a  grid  shelf  in  a  moderate  oven.  It  will 
take  from  an  hour  and  three-quarters  to  two  hours  and  a  quarter 
for,  say,  four  to  six  pounds  of  ham  to  cook,  as  the  process  must  be 
necessarily  a  slow  one. 

CURRIED  VEAL. 

Cut  about  a  pound  of  lean  veal,  filet  or  leg  part,  into  small,  thin 
slices,  free  from  skin  and  sinews.  Mix  on  a  plate  a  tablespoonful  of 
flour  with  a  dessert  spoontul  of  curry  powder  and  a  dessert 
spoonful  of  desiccated  cocoanue.  Season  the  meat  with 
salt  and  pepper,  add  to  it  half  a  cour  apple  peeled  and 
chopped,  then  mix  with  the  curried  flour,  etc.  Have  ready  a  well- 
buttered  paper  bag  of  the  desired  size,  put  in  it  the  prepared  meat, 
also  about  half  a  pint  of  cold  water  or  stock.  Close  up  the  end  of 
the  bag  and  fasten  carefully  with  wire  clips.  Turn  in  the  four 
corners  of  the  bag  and  place  it  on  a  grid  shelf  in  a  moderately 
heated  oven  and  cook  slowly  for  about  35  or  40  minutes.  When 
done  take  out  the  bag,  slit  it  open  and  put  its  contents  on  to  a  hot 
dish.  Sprinkle  over  a  little  lemon  juice  and  serve  with  plainly  cooked 
rice. 

Note. — If  white  curry  is  desired  use  half  milk  and  half  water  or 
white  stock. 

MINCED  MEAT. 

This  is  made  from  the  remains  of  cold  meat,  beef,  mutton,  veal 
or  pork.  Trim  off  the  superfluous  fat  and  cut  about  a  pound  of  the 
meat  into  slices  and  then  into  small  discs.  Season  it  with  salt  and 
pepper  and  sprinkle  over  a  tablespoonful  of  flour.  Mix  in  a  small 
basin  half  a  pint  of  stock  or  water,  a  teaspoonful  of  Tarragon  vine- 
gar, the  same  of  a  good  sauce  or  mushroom  ketchup  and  a  few 
slices  of  finely  chopped  onion.  Stir  this  and  mix  with  the  minced 
meat.  Then  put  all  in  a  well-greased  paper  bag,  fasten  it  securely, 
place  it  on  a  grid  shelf  in  a  fairly  heated  oven  and  cook  for  about 
20  minutes. 

SWEETBREAD. 

The  following  ingredients  are  required  for  this  dish:  One 
sweetbread,  two  ounces  butter,  three  slices  of  bacon,  braising  vege- 
tables, the  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  seasoning  and  parsley  for  garnish- 
ing. 

Blanch  the  sweetbread,  trim  it  and  put  it  between  two  plates  to 
Vress.  When  cold  season  to  taste  with  salt  and  pepper,  then  put  it 


PAPER    BAG    COOK    BOOK  19 

with  the  butter,  bacon  and  some  sliced  carrot,  onion,  bay  leaf*  and 
the  lemon  juice  into  a  well-buttered  paper  bag.  Place  this,  when 
properly  sealed  up  and  fastened  with  wire  clips,  on  a  grid  shelf  and 
cook  in  a  hot  oven  for  about  20  minutes.  When  cooked,  take  up 
the  sweetbread,  dish  up,  pour  over  the  liquid  found  in  the  bag,  gar- 
nish with  parsley  and  serve  hot. 

SWEETBREADS  IN  CREAM  WITH  MUSHROOMS. 

Salt  and  pepper  one  pair  of  medium -sized  sweetbreads.  Cut  in 
slices  12  large  mushrooms,  distribute  the  pieces  over  the  sweetbreads 
and  put  into  the  bag.  Then  over  the  whole  pour  half  a  pint  of  thick 
cream.  Seal  the  bag  and  cook  for  45  minutes. 

ESCALLOPED  SWEETBREADS  IN  BUTTER. 

Cut  a  pair  of  sweetbreads  in  half,  lengthwise.  Salt  and  pepper  and 
roll  in  flour.  Pour  over  one  egg,  well  beaten,  and  add  a  piece  of  butter 
size  of  a  walnut.  Roll  the  pieces  in  fresh  bread  crumbs.  Put  into  the 
bag,  and  cook  35  minutes. 

RAGOUT  OF  SWEETBREADS. 

Take  two  pieces  of  medium-sized  sweetbreads  and  cut  into  inch 
and  a  half  cubes.  Add  8  whole  mushrooms,  one  large  truffle  sliced  and 
6  olives  cut  into  small  pieces.  Salt  and  pepper  arrd  mix  well,  then  add 
a  teaspoon  of  flour,  a  tablespoon  of  Madeira  and  half  a  glass  of  thick 
gravy.  Put  into  the  bag  and  cook  for  40  minutes. 

(Note:  The  regular  gravy  which  is  used  in  many  entrees,  is  obtained 
by  browning  together  in  the  pan  2  ounces  of  butter  and  3  tablespoons  of 
flour.  Add  to  this  a  pint  and  a  half  of  juice  from  a  roast  and  cook  for 
one  hour.  Then  stir  in  half  a  glass  of  tomato  sauce  and  the  gravy  is 
ready  for  use  at  any  time.) 

LAMB  CHOPS  WITH  GREEN  PEAS. 

Boil  half  a  pint  of  peas  for  15  minutes.  Salt  and  pepper  four  lamb 
chops,  put  them  in  the  bag  and  cover  with  the  peas.  Let  cook  for  5 
minutes, 

VEAL  CHOPS  WITH  TOMATOES. 

Take  two  large  ripe  tomatoes  and  skin,  seed,  and  cut  them  into 
quarters.  Add  a  little  parsley  and  half  a  chopped  onion.  Put  two 
chops  into  the  bag,  salt  and  pepper  them,  and  cover  with  the  above 
preparation.  Mix  well  and  cook  for  40  minutes. 

RACK  OF  LAM'B  BOULANGERE. 

To  a  rack  of  spring  lamb  containing  six  or  eight  chops,  add  salt  and 
pepper,  2  small  onions  sliced,  3  potatoes  cut  into  one-inch  cubes,  a 
piece  of  butter  size  of  an  egg  and  a  tablespoon  of  water.  Put  the  whole 
into  the  bag  and  cook  for  45  minutes. 

VEAL  CUTLET  MILANAISE. 

Season  with  pinches  of  salt  and  pepper  2  cutlets,  roll  in  flour,  and 
add  one  egg  well  beaten.  Then  roll  in  4  tablespoons  of  fresh  bread 
crumbs  and  2  tablespoons  of  grated  cheese.  Add  a  piece  of  butter  size 
of  an  egg,  put  into  the  bag,  and  cook  for  35  minutes. 

PORK  CHOPS  CHAMPWELLON. 

Take  four  large  chops,  salt  and  pepper  well,  and  pass  iruflour.  Add 
2  onions  and  4  potatoes  sliced  thin.  Then  add  two  or  three  sprigs  of 


20  THE  SUNDAY  AMERICAN'S 

parsley  and  a  tablespoon  of  water.     Put  into  the  bag  and  cook  foi  45 
minutes. 

KIDNEY  (LAMB  OR  VEAL)  'MADEIRA. 

Cut  the  kidney  diagonally  in  slices  an  inch  thick.  Slice  in  small 
pieces  6  mushrooms  and  distribute  evenly.  Add  half  a  small  glass  of 
Madeira  and  two  tablespoons  of  thick  gravy.  Put  the  whole  into  the 
bag  and  cook  8  to  10  minutes. 

BEEF  STEW. 

Take  two  pounds  of  tender  beef  and  cut  into  2-inch  cubes.  Salt 
and  pepper  and  add  12  mushrooms,  10  small  onions  and  12  pieces  of 
bacon,  sliced  thin.  Mix  well  and  add  half  a  glass  of  claret  and  one  glass 
of  thick  gravy.  Put  into  the  bag  and  cook  one  hour. 

IRISH  STEW. 

Take  three  pounds  of  breast  or  shoulder  of  mutton  and  cut  into 
small  cubes.  Add  2  white  onions,  3  potatoes  of  medium  size,  sliced 
thin,  a  teaspoon  of  chopped  parsley,  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Put 
the  whole  into  the  bag,  then  pour  over  one  glass  of  water,  or  preferably, 
consomme,  if  on  hand.  Close  bag  and  cook  for  an  hour  and  a  quarter. 

BEEF  PAPRIKA. 

Salt  thoroughly  2  Ibs.  of  beef,  and  add  a  teaspoon  of  paprika.  Chop 
fine  a  large  white  onion,  and  mix  together  with  the  meat.  Add  one 
glassof  thick  gravy,  put  the  whole  into  the  bag,  and  cook  one  hour. 

BEEF  WITH  CURRY. 

J  or  2  Ibs.  of  beef  take  two  slices  of  ham,  one  small  apple,  one  onion, 
one  tomato,  and  2  teaspoons  of  curry  powder.  Mix  well  together,  then 
add  one  glass  of  thick  gravy,  and  two  tablespoons  of  thick  cream.  Put 
all  into  the  bag  and  let  cook  for  one  hour. 

SLICE  OF  SPRING  LAMB  IN  BUTTER. 

Salt  and  pepper  half  a  pound  of  leg  or  lamb.  Add  a  piece  of  butter 
size  of  an  egg,  put  into  the  bag  and  cook  for  8  minutes. 

TRIPE  CREOLE. 

Weigh  out  a  pound  of  tripe  and  slice  in  half-inch  pieces,  tjhop  on«* 
large  onion,  slice  thick  one  small  green  pepper,  add  six  mushrooms  and 
two  tomatoes,  skinned,  seeded  and  chopped.  Salt  and  pepper  the 
whole,  and  mix  with  the  tripe.  Then  add  half  a  glass  of  thick  gravy 
and  cook  for  45  minutes. 

MUTTON  CHOPS  PLAIN. 

To  two  large  mutton  chops  add  a  piece  of  butter  size  of  an  egg.  Add 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  put  into  the  bag,  and  cook  for  eight  minutes. 

SAUSAGE  WITH  TOMATOES. 

Put  into  the  bag  8  links  of  Deerfoot  sausage.  Chop  fine  together 
two  tomatoes  and  one  large  onion,  and  put  evenly  over  the  sausage. 
Cook  for  20  minutes. 

CALF'S  BRAIN  WITH  BROWN  BUTTER. 

Clean  and  wash  thoroughly  the  brain,  and  salt  and  pepper  well. 
Add  a  tablespoon  of  capers,  together  with  two  or  three  sprigs  of  parsley. 
Brown  in  the  pan  a  piece  of  butter  size  of  an  egg,  and  pour  over  the 
whole  mixture.  Put  into  the  bag  and  cook  for  25  minutes. 


PAPER    BAG    COOK   BOOK  21 

, *_* — • 

FILET  OF  VEAL  (DUTCH  STYLE). 

Cut  a  few  filets  of  veal,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  a  few  drops  of 
lemon  juice,  cover  with  oily  butter,  and  pass  through  crisp  bread 
crumbs.  Place  in  a  buttered  paper  bag,  with  a  teaspoonful  of  meat 
extract;  fold  and  cook  for  20lminutes. 

MUTTON  CHOPS  A  LA  MAGNY. 

Trim  each  chop,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  ftrush  both  sides 
with  melted  butter,  place  one  slice  of  tomato,  and  one  mushroom  on 
top,  add  a  teaspoonful  of  consomme  or  stock  and  a  little  coarsely 
chopped  parsley.  Put  in  a  buttered  bag,  fold  and  fasten  it,  and  cook 
in  a  hot  oven  15  or  16  minutes. 

CALF'S  HEART  WITH  ONIONS. 

Remove  blood  vessels  and  fibrous  parts  from  a  calf's  heart  and  wash 
thoroughly.  Dry  and  fill  with  veal  or  fish  stuffing.  Cover  the  opening 
with  slices  of  bacon  tied  or  skewered  into  place,  cover  carefully  with 
sifted  flour  highly  seasoned  with  pepper  and  salt.  Clean  and  slice  one 
large  Spanish  onion  and  place  both  heart  and  onion  in  a  thickly  buttered 
bag.  Fold  and  fasten  the  bag  and  cook  in  a  moderate  oven  for  1  hour. 

BEEF  LEAF. 

Cut  six  slices  of  raw  beefsteak  very  thin;  flatten  and  season  with 
salt  and  pepper.  Make  a  dressing  by  chopping  one  ounce  of  bacon, 
one  shallot  (or  Y±  onion),  a  little  parsley,  one  ounce  ham  and  a  few  beef 
trimmings.  Mix  together  with  a  little  spice  such  as  powdered  thyme, 
marjoram  and  sage,  a  few  bread  crumbs  and  bind  all  together  with  an 
egg.  Arrange  alternate  layers  of  steak  and  dressing,  then  roll  up  and 
truss  firmly  with  a  string.  Place  in  a  buttered  bag  with  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  butter  and  a  teaspoonful  of  caramel.  Fold  and  fasten  bag 
and  cook  for  35  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 

MUTTON  STEW. 

Cut  four  pounds  of  neck  of  mutton  in  inch  cubes,  trimming  off  all  the 
fat.  Add  two  finely  chopped  onions,  two  or 'three  diced  potatoes,  two 
or  three  sliced  tomatoes,  and  a  few  peas.  Season  with  pepper  and  salt 
and  dredge  over  the  top  one  tablespoonful  of  flour  and  a  teaspoonful  of 
poultry  seasoning.  Put  in  a  buttered  bag,  add  one  half  to  three-quar- 
ters of  a  cup  of  cold  water.  Fold  bag  and  fasten,  and  cook  in  a  moder- 
ate oven  35  or  40  minutes.  It  will  then  be  ready  to  serve.  Carrots 
and  mushrooms  may  vary  the  seasoning. 

STEWED   KIDNEYS. 

Prepare  lambs'  kidneys  as  usual.  For  a  pair  of  kidneys,  cut  up  in 
small  pieces,  add  a  sliced  tomato,  a  few  mushrooms,  pepper  and  salt 
to  taste  and  a  tablespoonful  of  water.  Put  in  well-buttered  bag.  Fold 
and  fasten  bag  and  cook  for  5  to  10  minutes  in  a  hot  oven. 

BANANAS  WITH  BACON. 

Split  in  half,  lengthwise,  six  bananas  (not  over  ripe),  sprinkle  with 
pepper  and  salt  and  on  each  place  a  strip  of  thinly  sliced  bacon,  half 
and  half  meat  and  fat.  Place  carefully  in  a  buttered  bag,  fold  and 
fasten  and  balr*  in  a  hot  oven  10  ro  12  minutes. 


22  THE  SUNDAY   AMERICAN'S 


Poultry  and  Game. 

ROAST  CHICKEN. 

Cut  the  legs,  close  to  thigh,  of  a  chicken,  well  trussed  for  roast- 
ing. Spread  over  the  breast  part  a  layer  of  butter  or  dripping, 
then  put  it  in  a  buttered  paper  bag,  fold  in  the  end  and  fasten  with 
clips.  Cook  it  on  a  grid  shelf  in  a  fairly  hot  oven  for  about  40 
rrinutes;  this  is  the  time  a  moderate  sized  fowl  v/ill  take.  Take  up 
the  bird,  remove  the  skewer  and  string  and  put  it  on  a  hot  dish. 
Prepare  some  gravy  as  directed  for  roast  meat.  Garnish  with  water- 
cress and  serve  with  bread  sauce. 

BOILED  CHICKEN. 

Careful  cooks  have  always  boiled  fowls  and  chickens  by  pre- 
viously wrapping  them  up  in  buttered  paper,  but  boiling  them  in 
paper  bags  is  more  convenient  and  certainly  cleaner.  Procure  the 
bird  to  bex boiled  ready  trussed  for  boiling;  rub  the  outside  with  a 
cut  lemon,  then  put  it  in  a  well-buttered  paper  bag  with  a  sliced 
onion,  a  piece  of  celery,  a  small  peeled  onion  stuck  with  a  clove  and 
a  small  bunch  of  herbs,  parsley,  etc.;  add  also  about  a  pint  of  salted 
water;  fold  in  the  bag  and  fasten  well  with  wire  clips,  or,  if  pre- 
ferred, tie  up  the  end  with  string.  Put  it  on  a  grid  shelf  in  a 
moderately  heated  oven  for  about  an  hour,  or  less,  according  to  the 
size  of  the  bird.  Serve  the  chicken  on  a  hot  dish  with  its  gravy  or 
liquor. 

CHICKEN  FRICASSEE,  WITH  MUSHROOMS. 

Cut  a  tender  chicken  into  the  usual  joints,  trim  each  neatly,  and 
cut  off  any  projecting  bones.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper  and 
sprinkle  over  with  very  little  flour,  then  dip  each  piece  of  chicken 
into  clarified  butter  and  slip  into  a  well-oiled  paper  bag,  together 
with  a  handful  of  finely  sliced  preserved  mushrooms,  also  a  small 
onion  stuck  with  a  clove,  half  a  carrot  and  a  bouquet  of  parsley; 
pour  over  about  a  gill  of  stock.  Close  up  the  end  of  the  bag,  fold 
over  and  fasten  with  clips,  then  place  on  a  wire  grid  and  cook  in  a 
'moderate  oven  from  35  to  40  minutes,  according  to  quantity  cooked. 
Stir  a  yolk  of  egg  in  a  small  basin  with  three  tablespoonfuls  of 
cream.  To  this  add  the  strained  juice  of  half  a  lemon.  Take  the 
pieces  of  chicken  out  of  the  bag  and  dress  them  on  a  hot  dish  with 
the  mushrooms.  Remove  the  onion,  carrot  and  parsley  and  strain 
the  liquor  remaining  in  the  bag  into  the  yoke  of  egg,  etc.  Mix 
thoroughly  and  pour  over  the  chicken.  Sprinkle  with  a  little  finely 
chopped  parsley  and  garnish  with  fleurons  (half  moons  or  puff 
pastroy),  and  also,  if  liked,  with  thin  slices  of  lemon. 

CHICKEN  SAUTE. 

,  Take  the  legs  and  wings  of  a  medium-sized  chicken  and  salt  and 
pepper  well.  Add  two  or  three  sprigs  of  parsley  broken  into  small 
pieces,  and  one  small  onion  chopped  fine.  Mix  together  with  af  piece 
of  butter  size  of  an  egg,  put  into  the  bag,  and  cook  for  25  minutes. 


PAPllR    BAG    COOK  BOOK 


23 


The  Sauce  That 
Makes  Things  Better 

EVERY      recipe    in    this     book    is 
good  or  it  would  not  be  published. 
Yet   every   meat  recipe,    every   stew, 
every  soup,  every  fish 

Can  Be   Made  Better,  and 
You  Ought  to  Know  How — 

Just  add  a  dash  of 


The  Improvement  Will  Surprise  You 

This  is  the  Sauce  that  adds  zest 
to  the  meal,  and  tempts  you 
to  "pass  your  plate  for  more." 

Regular  Size,  lOc  the  Bottle 
Extra  Large  Size,  18c  the  Bottle 

Get  It  at 

Your  Grocer's 

or  Delicatessen  Store. 

E.    Pritchard,    Maker,   331   Spring  St.,    New   York. 


24  THE   SUNDAY   AMERICAN'S 

RHODE  ISLAND  TURKEY  PLAIN. 

Clean,  wash  and  singe  the  turkey  thoroughly.  Add  salt  to  taste 
together  with  a  quarter  pound  of  butter  in  the  bag.  Let  cook  for  an 
hour  and  a  half.  , 

STUFFED  TURKEY  WITH  CHESTNUTS. 

Salt  the  turkey  well.  Then  chop  together  one  onion,  one  pound 
of  sausage  meat,  one  apple  and  three  sprigs  of  parsley.  Mix  in  with 
this  one  quart  of  fresh  breadcrumbs  and  one  pound  of  chestnuts.  Stuff 
the  turkey  and  put  into  the  bag,  with  a  quarter  pound  of  butter.  Cook 
for  two  and  one-half  hours. 

ROAST  QUAIL  WITH  GRAPES. 

Clean  the  quail  thoroughly,  and  cover  with  pieces  of  bacon  sliced 
thin.  Salt,  and  put  into  the  bag  with  a  little  butter.  Cook  for  8 
minutes.  Before  closing  the  bag,  add  one-half  pound  of  fresh  Malaga 
grapes. 

ROAST  PLOVER. 

Clean  the  bird  carefully,  salt,  and  cover  the  breast  with  thin  slices 
of  bacon.  Put  into  the  bag  and  cook  for  8  minutes. 


Vegetable  Recipes. 

ONLY  lately  has  any  attempt  been  made  to  cook  vegetables  in 
paper  bags.  While  it  is  not  advisable  to  adopt  this  method 
for  every  kind  of  vegetable,  the  experiments  made  have  proved 
that  quite  a  number  can  be  successfully  cooked  by  the  paper 
bag  process,  notably  so  the  following:  Artichokes,  broad  beans, 
Brussels  sprouts,  beans,  carrots,  cauliflower,  celeriac,  celery,  cucum- 
ber, endive,  chicory,  seakale,  mushrooms,  parsnips,  peas,  potatoes, 
salsify  and  tomatoes.  These  must  in  each  case  be  washed,  trimmed 
and  prepared  the  same  as  for  an  ordinary  cooking  process,  duly 
seasoned  and  placed  with  a  little  water,  and,  in  some  cases,  butter 
as  well,  in  a  grease-proof  paper  bag  (sealed  up),  and  put  in  a  mod- 
erately heated  oven  on  an  iron  grid,  not  a  solid  shelf,  as  is  usually 
found  in  coal  ovens.  The  heat  will  thus  reach  the  contents  of  the 
bag  from  all  sides  and  top  and  bottom.  From  15  to  35  minutes 
should  be  allowed  to  cook  any  kind  of  vegetable;  some  will  take 
even  less  time. 

Dried  peas,  lentils  and  haricot  beans  are  excellent  cooked  in 
paper  bags,  but  they  must  be  allowed  to  soak  for  rather  longer  than 
usual  before  cooking  them. 

It  is  well  to  remember  that  all  vegetables  must  undergo  some 
kind  of  preparation,  washing,  draining,  scraping,  peeling,  etc.,  before 


PAPER   BAG   COOK   BOOK  25 

they  can  be  cooked  in  the  correct  sense,  and  unless  this  is  done  well 
the  success  of  a  dish  is  often  spoiled,  so  that  the  paper  bag  cannot 
be  of  much  help  unless  this  is  done. 

Always  cook  the  vegetables  on  the  same  day  on  which  they  are 
prepared  and  wanted  for  table. 

Vegetables  of  strong  flavor,  which  include  almost  every  kind  of 
green  vegetable,  are  not  recommended  to  be  cooked  in  a  paper  bag. 
They  should  be  cooked  in  a  large  quantity  of  water,  sufficient  to  well 
cover  the  articles  to  be  cooked. 

The  water  in  which  they  are  cooked  must  be  well  seasoned  with 
salt.  About  a  teaspoonful  to  every  quart  of  water  is  the  average 
proportion  used. 

As  a  much  smaller  quantity  of  water  is  used  by  the  paper  bag 
system  than  by  the  ordinary  way,  the  liquor  in  which  vegetables 
have  been  cooked  is  valuable  and  should  be  made  use  of. 

BROAD  BEANS. 

This  is  an  excellent  way  of  cooking  young  broad  beans:  Shell 
them  and  put  the  beans  with  salted  water  in  a  buttered  paper1  bag, 
seal  it  up  and  cook  on  a  grid  shelf  for  20  minutes  in  a  moderate 
oven.  Mix  a  little  of  the  stock  or  liquor  of  the  beans  and  a  table- 
spoonful  of  cream  with  the  yoke  of  an  egg,  and  add  a  little  chopped 
parsley  and  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice.  Dish  up  the  beans  and  pour 
over  the  prepared  sauce. 

CARROTS  A  LA  VICHY. 

Wash  and  scrape  four  or  eight  carrots  and  cut  them  into  very 
thin  slices,  season  with. salt  and  pepper  and  mix  with  an  ounce  of 
clarified  butter  and  a  gill  of  stock.  Put  all  into  a  well-buttered 
paper  bag,  close  it  up  and  fasten  with  wire  clips;  place  it  on  a  wire 
grid  in  a  moderately  heated  oven  and'  cook  from  25  to  30  minutes. 
Slit  the  bag  open  and  put  the  carrots  with  the  liquor  on  to  a  hot 
dish,  sprinkle  over  some  finely  chopped  parsley  and  serve  hot. 

BAKED  POTATOES. 

Wash  and  scrape,  or  peel  thinly,  one  to  one  and  a  half  pounds 
of  new  potatoes;  parboil  them  for  a  few  minutes  in  salted  water; 
then  drain,  sprinkle  over  with  butter  and  put  them  into  a  but- 
tered grease-proof  paper  bag.  Fasten  the  bag  securely  and  place  on 
a  grid  or  trivet  in  a  hot  oven  and  bake  for  25  or  30  minutes. 

POTATO  CHIPS. 

Wash  and  peel  thinly  four  or  five  potatoes  and  cut  them  into 
very  thin  slices.  Put  them  on  a  cloth  and  drain  thoroughly  so  as 
.to  absorb  all  the  moisture.  Have  ready  a  well-buttered  paper  bag, 
put  in  the  prepared  potato  chips  and  close  up  the  bag.  Fasten  the 
end  with  clips  and  place  on  a  grid  shelf  in  a  hot  oven.  Cook  thus 
for  about  15  minutes,  turning  the  bag  once  or  twice  during  this 
period.  The  potato  chips  will  be  found  quite  cr,isp  by  this  time. 
Open  the  bag,  season  the  chips  with  fine  salt  and  dish  them  up. 


26  THE   SUNDAY    AMERICAN'S. 

SAUTE  POTATOES. 

This  is  an  excellent  way  of  reheating  cold  potatoes.  If  the 
potatoes  are  not  peeled,. peel  them  and  slice  them  thinly,  season  with 
salt  and  pepper.  Have  ready  a  paper  bag  of  the  desired  size;  pour 
over  the  sliced  potatoes  a  liberal  quantity  of  melted  butter  and  put 
them  in  a  well-buttered  paper  bag,  fasten  the  end,  place  it  on  a  grid 
shelf  and  cook  in  a  fairly  hot  oven  about  18  to  20  minutes.  Turn 
the  bag  several  times. 

POTATOES  AU  MAITRE  D'HOTEL. 

Cut  some  cold  potatoes  into  slices,  not  too  thin;  season  them  with 
salt  and  pepper  and  a  little  nutmeg.  Sprinkle  over  half  a  tablespoon- 
ful  of  flour  to  each  pound  of  potatoes,  also  a  tablespoonful  of  oil  or 
butter,  then  put  them  in  a  buttered  paper  bag  with  a  gill  and  a  half 
of  milk.  Close  up  the  bag  securely  and  place  it  on  a  wire  grid  in  a 
moderately  heated  oven  for  about  20  minutes.  Slit  open  the  bag  and 
put  the  potatoes  with  the  sauce  on  a  hot  dish.  Sprinkle  over  some 
finely  chopped  parsley  and  serve. 

TOMATOES  WITH  BACON. 

Remove  the  stems  from  six  or  eight  ripe  but  firm  tomatoes,  wipe 
them  and  dip  each  in  hot  water  for  a  few  minutes,  then  skin  care- 
fully. Cut  half  a  pound  of  bacon  into  thin  slices,  pat  out  each  slice 
and  roll  up  half  a  tomato  in  each,  after  having  seasoned  them  with 
salt  and  pepper  and  sprinkled  over  a  little  chopped  parsley.  Place 
carefully  in  a  greased  paper  bag,  fold  over  the  end  of  the  bag  and 
fasten  with  clips  or  large  pins,  then  put  it  on  a  grid  shelf  in  a  hot 
oven  and  cook  for  about  15  minutes.  Break  or  slit  the  bag,  put  the 
contents  carefully  on  a  hot  dish  and  serve. 

BAKED  TOMATOES. 

Cut  six  tomatoes  into  halves,  season  them  with  pepper  and  salt 
and  sprinkle  bread  crumbs  over  them;  put  small  pieces  of  butter 
here  and  there  on  them.  Place  them  in  a  buttered  paper  bag,  close  it 
up  securely,  put  it  on  a  wire  grid  and  bake  in  a  fairly  hot  oven  for 
about  20  minutes.  Dish  up  the  tomatoes  and  serve  hot. 

BOILED  RICE. 

Rice  can  be  satisfactorily  cooked  in  a  paper  bag.  After  picking 
it  over  and  washing  it  in  several  waters  it  should  be  soaked  for 
several  hours.  It  is  then  put  in  a  well-greased  paper  bag  with  water, 
proportion  being  half  a  pint  of  water  to  4  ounces  of  rice;  fold  in 
and  fasten  the  end  of  the  bag,  put  it  on  a  gri<J  shelf  and  cook  in  a 
moderate  oven  for  about  25  minutes. 

GREEN  PEAS. 

Shell  one  pint  of  green  peas,  put  into  a  quart-sized  paper  bag, 
previously  buttered,  add  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  sprig  of  green 
mint,  and  about  a  gill  of  water;  fold  the  ends  of  the  bag  carefully 
and  clip  tightly,  place  it  on  a  grid  shelf  in  a  moderate  oven  and 
cook  for  about  35  minutes.  To  serve,  slit  open  the  paper  bag  and 
pour  the  peas  on  to  a  hot  dish. 


PAPER    BAG    COOK    BOOK  27 

GREEN  PEAS  A  LA  FRANCAISE. 

Shell  iy2  pints  to  a  quart  of  green  peas,  put  them  into  a  thor- 
oughly buttered  paper  bag,  together  with  4  small,  peeled  onions  and 
2  ounces  of  finely  shredded  streaky  bacon  (shreds  cut  crossways), 
season  with  salt  and  pepper,  also  some  powdered  sugar;  add  from 
1  to  iyz  gills  of  water.  Close  up  the  end  of  the  bag  and  fasten 
with  clips,  then  place  it  carefully  on  a  wire  grid  and  cook  in  a 
moderate  oven,  allowing  from  30  to  35  minutes.  When  cooked  take 
up  the  peas  and  put  them  in  a  hot  dish,  sprinkle  over  with  finely 
chopped  parsley,  and  serve. 

SAVOURY  CABBAGE. 

Wash  and  trim  a  young  cabbage,  remove  the  stalk  portion,  and 
cut  the  remainder  into  shreds.  Take  three  slices  of  streaky  bacon 
and  cut  them  crossways  into  strips;  mix  these  with  the  cabbage, 
season  with  salt,  and  put  all  in  a  buttered  paper  bag,  with  about 
three-quarters  of  a  pint  of  water  and  a  teaspoonful  of  bicarbonate  of 
soda.  Close  up  the  bag  securely,  place  it  on  a  wire  grid,  and  cook 
in  a  moderately  heated  oven  for  about  40  minutes;  dish  up  the 
cabbage,  and  serve  hot. 

STUFFED  TOMATOES. 

Cut  the  tops  off  from  six  large  ripe  tomatoes,  and  seed  and  skin 
them.  Chop  separately  one  small  onion,  two  hard-boiled  eggs,  two 
tomatoes  and  several  springs  of  parsley.  Then  mix  all  together,  and 
salt  and  pepper  thoroughly.  Then  mix  together  3  tablespoons  of  fresh 
bread  crumbs  and  one  raw  egg,  and  stir  this  into  the  whole.  Stuff  the 
tomatoes,  put  the  tops  on,  and  put  into  the  bag  with  butter  size  of  an 
egg.  Let  cook  from  15  to  20  minutes. 

TOMATOES  AU  GRATIN. 

Cut  in  two  and  seed  six  tomatoes  and  put  in  the  same  ingredients 
as  above,  but  add  2  tablespoons  of  grated  cheese.  Stuff,  and  add  a 
pinch  of  fresh  bread  crumbs  on  top  of  each  tomato.  Put  into  the  bag 
with  a  small  piece  of  butter,  and  cook  for  15  minutes  in  hot  oven. 

TOMATOES  IN  BUTTER. 

Cut  six, large  tomatoes  in  half,  skin,  seed,  and  salt  and  pepper  well. 
Add  parsley  in  small  quantities.  Butter  each  one  thoroughly  outside  and 
in,  put  into  the  bag  and  let  cook  1 2  minutes. 

MUSHROOMS  IN  BUTTER. 

Take  18  large  mushrooms  and  skin  them  carefully,  without  cutting 
in  too  deep.  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  put  into  the  bag,  and  add  a 
piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg.  Cook  for  8  minutes. 

'MUSHROOMS  ON  TOAST. 

Toast  lightly  and  butter  2  slices  of  bread.  Place  8  mushrooms  on 
each  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Put  into  the  bag  and  cook  for  8 
minutes. 

MUSHROOMS  IN  CREAM. 

Clean  and  skin  18  mushrooms,  and  salt  and  pepper  well.  Add  half 
.a  pint  of  thick  cream,  together  with  butter  size  of  an  egg.  Put  into 
the  bag  and  cook  15  minutes. 


28  THE    SVND4Y   AMERICAN'S 


SUMMER  SQUASH  IN  BUTTER. 

Cut  a  medium-sized  squash  into  narrow  strips,  about  half  an  inch  in 
width,  salt  and  pepper  each  carefully,  and  put  into  the  bag.  Add  a 
piece  of  butter  size  of  an  egg  and  cook  for  30  minutes. 

GREEN  CORN  PLAIN. 

Let  the  inside  husk  remain  on  two  full  ears  of  corn.  Add  a  pinch 
of  salt  to  each,  and  one  glass  of  water  in  «-he  bag.  Cook  for  40  minutes. 

CORN  WITH  GREEN  PEPPERS. 

Take  one  can  of  com  and  mix  well  with  one  green  pepper  sliced  tHi. 
Add  salt  to  taste  and  half  a  pint  of  thick  cream.  Put  into  the  bag  and 
cook  for  20  minutes. 

CORN  IN  BUTTER. 

To  a  can  of  corn  add  salt  and  pepper,  with  butter  size  of  an  egg. 
Cook  the  whole  in  the  bag  for  15  minutes. 

GREEN  PEAS  PLAIN. 

Take  one  pint  of  peas,  add  one  glass  of  water  and  salt  well.  Put 
into  the  bag  and  cook  one  hour. 

(String  beans  may  be  cooked  in  the  same  manner.) 

SPINACH. 

Clean  and  dry  thoroughly  two  quarts  of  spinach      Sprinkle  with 
salt,  add  a  pinch  of  sugar,  and  put  into  the  bag.     Cook  for  40  minutes. 
then  take  the  bag  from  the  oven  and  place  a  piece  of  butter  size  of  an 
egg  in  a  hole  in  the  center  of  the  spinach.     It  :s  then  ready  to  serve. 

POTATOES   MAITRE   D'HOTEL 

Slice  4  boiled  potatoes,  add  half  a  pint  of  cream,  salt,  2  or  3  springs 
of  parsley,  put  into  the  bag  and  cook  for  15  minutes. 

HASHED  POTATOES  IN  CREAM. 

Peel  and  hash  3  boiled  potatoes,  salt  well,  add  half  a  pint  of  thick 
cream,  put  the  whole  into  the  bag  and  let  cook  for  10  minutes. 

EGGS  AND  SPINACH. 

Take  a  pint  of  dry  spinach,  chopped  fine,  and  put  in  a  small  sauce- 
pan. Add  a  piece  of  butter,  size  of  an  egg,  and  two  or  three  tablespoons 
of  thick  cream,  according  to  the  consistency  of  the  spinach.  Cook  tor 
five  minutes.  Then  take  four  tablespoons  of  the  chopped  spinach  in 
cream,  add  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  put  into  the  bag.  Break  two  eggs  over 
the  preparation,  close  the  bag,  and  cook  for  two  minutes. 

EGGS  WITH  ASPARAGUS  TIPS. 

Melt  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg  in  a  saucepan,  add  a  can 
of  asparagus  tips,  together  with  one  tablespoonful  of  thick  cream.  Stir 
well  ror  five  minutes,  and  put  into  the  bag.  Break  two  eggs  over  the 
asparagus,  close  the  bag  and  cook  for  two  minutes. 

EGGS  PORTUGUESE. 

Peel  two  large  ripe  tomatoes.  Cut  in  half  and  seed  well.  Chopin 
small  pieces,  and  add  a  pinch  of  salt  and  of  pepper,  together  with  a 
piece  of  butter  size  of  an  egg.  Cook  in  a  saucepan  for  ten  minutes. 
Put  the  preparation  into  a  bag,  break  two  eggs  over,  and  cook  for  two 
minutes. 


PAPER   BAG    COOK   BO'OK 


Dessert  Recipes. 

TAPIOCA  PUDDINC. 

Take  three-quarters  of  a  pi  of  milk,  1  ounce  of  crushed  or 
.  flaked  tapioca,  1  ounce  of  castor  sugar,  1  egg,  flavoring  essence. 
[  Put  the  tapioca  to  soak  in  hot  milk  for  20  minutes,  then  add  the 

sugar   and   the   beaten   egg,    also    a   few   drops    of    flavoring    essence. 

Butter    a   shallow  pie  dish,   pour   in   the   mixture,   then,  put   it   in   a 

paper  bag,  fold   the  end   to   close  up  securely,  and  bake  for  about 

20  minutes. 

HOMINY  PUDDING. 

Put  2  ounces  of  hominy  into  a  basin  and  pour  over  three-quarters 
of  a  pint  of  boiling  milk  and  let  it  soak  for  half  an  hour.  Beat  in 
1  egg,  then  add  half  an  ounce  of  shredded  beef  suet  and  1  ounce 
of  castor  sugar,  also  a  few  drops  of  flavoring  essence.  Pour  the 
mixture  into  a  greased  shallow  pie  dish,  then  place  it  in  a  paper  bag, 
fold  in  the  end  to  close  up  securely  with  clips,  place  on  a  grid  she'u 
in  a  fairly  fast  oven  and  bake  for  15  minutes. 

COCOANUT  PUDDING. 

Take  4  ounces  of  grated  fresh  cocoanut,  with  2  ounces  of  castor 
sugar,  creamed  up  with  2  ounces  of  butter,  stir  well,  and  add  2 
ounces  of  cake  crumbs,  also  the  whisked  whites  of  3  eggs,  half  a 
wineglassful  of  sherry  or  brandy,  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  orange 
water.  Line  the  edges  of  a  shallow  pie  dish  with  puff  paste,  pour 
in  the  mixture,  sprinkle  over  with  castor  sugar,  then  place  the  dish 
in  a  paper  bag,  seal  it  up  well,  and  put  it  on  a  wire  grid  shelf  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  about  35  minutes. 

BAKED  APPLE  DUMPLINGS. 

Get  ready  the  following  ingredients:  Half  a  pound  of  flour, 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder, 
6  small  cooking  apples,  brown  sugar,  and  2  ounces  of  currents. 
Sift  the  flour  with  the  baking  powder  into  a  basin,  add  a  pinch 
of  salt,  and  rub  in  the  butter  lightly;  moisten  with  enough  water 
to  make  a  stiff,  smooth  paste.  Peel  and  core  the  apples,  roll  out  the 
'paste  about  a  sixth  of  an  inch  thick,  cut  out  twelve  rounds,  each 
•large  enough  to  wrap  up  half  an  apple;  put  a  teaspoenful  of  moist 
sugar  and  a  few  currants  in  the  cavity  of  each  apple,  wet  the  edges 
of  the  paste,  and  wrap  the  apples  in  the  paste,  using  two  rounds 
for  each.  Care  must  be  taken,  so  that  the  edges  are  well  joined, 
brush  over  with  water,  sprinkle  with  castor  sugar,  place  the  pre- 
pared dumplings  in  a  well-greased  paper  bag  on  a  wire  grid,  prick 
'the  paper  here  and  there  with  a  fork,  and  bake  in  a  fairly  hot  oven 
for  about  30  minutes. 


30  THE   SUNDAY   AMERICAN'S 

BAKED  APPLES. 

Peel  four  or  five  ripe  apples  and  slice  lengthwise,  or  divide  each 
with  a  cutter,  and  fill  the  cavities  with  currants  and  powdered 
sugar,  pour  a  little  melted  butter  over  each  apple,  and  place  them  in 
a  buttered  paper  bag,  close  it  up  securely,  put  it  on  a  wire  grid,  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  20  minutes. 

BAKED  ROLY  PUDDING. 

Rub  3  ounces  of  beef  dripping  into  half  a  pound  of  flour  and 
mix  with  milk  or  water  to  a  fairly  stiff  paste.  Roll  it  out  on  a 
floured  board  and  spread  thinly  with  jam.  Roll  it  up  carefully,  put 
in  in  a  well-buttered  paper  bag,  and  bake  on  a  grid  shelf  for  about 
three-quarters  of  an  hour  in  a  moderate  oven. 

FRIED  BANANAS. 

Peel  four  or  five  ripe  bananas  and  slice  lengthwise  or  divide  each 
into  two.  Brush  them  slightly  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg  mixed  with  a 
little  milk,  dredge  with  flour,  and  dip  each  slice  in  melted  butter. 
Butter  the  inside  of  a  large-sized  paper  bag,  put  in  the  bananas,  fold 
in  the  end  of  the  bag  and  fasten  it  with  wire  clips.  Now  place  the 
bag  on  a  wire  grid  in  a  fairly  hot  oven  and  cook  for  about  10 
minutes.  Take  out  the  fruit  and  dish  up  gently,  sprinkle  over  some 
castor  sugar  and  serve  hot,  plain  or  with  whipped  cream. 

Note. — Bananas  prepared  and  fried  as  above  directed  are  also 
very  nice  served  as  a  breakfast  dish,  omitting  the  sugar  and  serving 
fried  slices  of  bacon,  thinly  cut;  these  are  also  cooked  in  a  paper  bag. 

BANANA  SOUFFLE. 

Take  four  bananas,  not  overripe,  peel  them,  put  them  in  a  pie 
dish,  and  pour  over  a  little  lemon  juice.  Have  ready  a  buttered 
souffle  dish.  Separate  the  yolks  from  2  eggs,  adding  2  ounces  of 
castor  sugar,  and  beat  up  to  a  cream.  Next  cream  up  in  a  basin 
2  ounces  of  fresh  butter,  add  slowly  2  ounces  of  sifted  flour,  then 
stir  in  the  yolk  of  eggs.  When  well  mixed  add  the  bananas,  previ- 
ously passed  through  a  sieve.  Beat  all  together,  lastly  add  the 
stiffly  beaten  whites  of  eggs.  Put  the  souffle  quickly  in  a  paper 
bag,  fold  and  fasten  the  end  of  the  bag  with  clips.  Bake  in  a  hot 
oven  for  about  20  minutes.  Send  the  souffle  to  table  quickly. 

Bananas  served  in  this  way  can  be  easily  digested  by  the  most 
delicate  person,  and  are  always  received  with  delight. 

ORANGE  CAKE. 

Take  2  eggs,  their  weight  in  butter,  powdered  sugar  and  ordinary 
flour,  the  grated  rind  of  two  oranges  and  1  tablespoonful  of  milk. 

Beat  up  the  eggs,  cream  together  the  butter  and  the  sugar;  mix 
the  flour  with  the  baking  powder;  add  the  flour  and  the  eggs  alter- 
nately to  the  creamed  butter,  mix  well,  then  stir  in  the  orange  rind. 
Pour  in  a  buttered  and  floured  paper  bag,  close  up  the  end  and  fasten 
with  clips  and  bake  on  a  wire  tray  in  a  moderately  heated  oven  foi 
about  18  minutes. 


PAPER   BAG    COOK  'BOOK:-  :;  31 


PUFF  PASTE. 

Sift  half  a  pound  of  flour  onto  a  pastry  board,  make  a  well  in 
the  centre,  add  a  pinch  of  salt,  one  teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice  and 
about  a  gill  of  cold  water.  Knead  the  paste  tho*  hly  and  doll 
out  into  an  oblong  strip.  Next  put  6  ounces  of  h  mtter  into  a 

cloth,  knead  a  little  so  as  to  squeeze  out  any  moisture,  and  shape  it 
into  a  flat  cake.  Place  the  butter  in  the  centre  of  the  prepared  paste, 
wet  the  edges  with  a  brush  dipped  in  cold  water  and  fold  over  so  as 

•  to  completely  inclose  the  butter.     Now  roll  it  out  very  carefully,  fold 
'  it  into  three  and  roll  out  into  an  oblong  shape  again;  continue  this 

about  four  or  five  times,  setting  the  paste  aside  in  a  cool  place  for 
about  15  minutes  between  each  turn.  Before  using  it  should  be 
allowed  to  stand  for  at  least  half  an  hour. 

ROUGh  PUFF  PASTE. 

This  is  not  quite  so  rich  as  puff  paste,  but  the  results  are  equally 
good.  Add  a  pinch  of  salt  to  12  ounces  of  flour  (sifted),  cut  8  ounces 
of  butter  into  small  pieces  and  mix  with  the  flour;  add  just  enough 
writer  to  make  a  firm  but  smooth  paste,  roll  it  out  one-third  of  an 
inch  thick,  fold  in  three  and  let  it  rest  for  10  minutes  in  a  cool 
r  place.  Roll  out  again  and  fold  in  three.  In  about  15  minutes  roll 

•  out  a  third  time,  again  fold  in  three,  and  use  as  directed.     This  paste 
is    eminently    suitable    for    meat    pies,    sausage    rolls,    fruit   tarts,   pas- 
tries, etc. 

RASPBERRY  AND  CURRANT  TARTLETS. 

Roll  out,  not  too  thinly,  half  a  pound  or  more  of  puff  paste,  and 
line  with  it  the  required  number  of  small  pastry  hoops  or  tartlet 

„  moulds.     Fill  these  with  rice  or  dried  peas  and  slip  into  a  paper  bag; 

.  prick  the  top  of  the  bag  with  a  skewer,  and  bake  on  a  grid  in  a 
moderate  oven  for  about  12  minutes,  or  until  the  paste  has  acquired 
a  golden  color.  Take  out  the  rice  or  peas  and  fill  the  tartlet  crusts 
with  prepared  raspberries  and  currants;  pour  over  a  little  prepared 
syrup  and  place  in  the  oven  again  for  a  few  minutes  to  get  hot. 
Sprinkle  over  with  powdered  sugar  and  serve. 

FRENCH  CHERRY  TARTS. 

Roll  out  thinly  some  puff  paste,  and  line  with  it  a  large  pastry 
hoop  or  flat  cake  tin.  Fill  this  with  stoned  cherries  and  sprinkle 
over  with  castor  sugar  mixed  with  a  little  ground  cinnamon.  Slip 
this  into  a  paper  bag,  fold  in  the  ends  and  fasten  with  clips,  and  bake 
for  about  15  to  20  minutes.  When  baked,  take  out  of  the  bag,  pour 
over  some  well-reduced  syrup,  and  serve. 

SWEET  BANANA  PASTIES. 

x         Roll  out  some  rough  puff  paste  and  cut  it  into  oblong  pieces  or 

squares  of  even  size.     Spread  the  centre  of  each  piece  of  paste  with  a 

-little  apricot  marmalade,  upon  this  put  half  a  banana  not  too  ripe,. 

n  and  sprinkle   over  with   powdered   sugar   mixed   with    ground   cinna- 

rrnon.    Wet  the  edges  of  the  paste,  fold  over  and  press  the  ends.    Now 

brush  over  with  a  little  milk  and  sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar.    Then 


32  .THE  SUNDAY  AMERICAN'S 


place   the   prepared   pasties   in   a   buttered   paper  bag   and   bake   on   a 
grid  shelf  in  a  fairly  hot  oven  for  from  10  to  12  minutes. 

CURRANT  CAKE. 

Get  ready  the  following  ingredients:  Half  a  pound  of  flour,  one 
large  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder,  a  pinch  of  salt,  3  ounces  of 
butter,  2  eggs,  4  ounces  of  sugar,  4  ounces  of  currants  and  about 
half  a  teacup  of  milk. 

Mix  the  flour,  salt  and  baking  powder,  rub  in  the  butter,  add 
the  sugar  and  cleaned  currants.  Make  into  a  fairly  stiff  paste,  with 
the  eggs  and  milk  previously  beaten  up.  Bake  for  about  25  minutes 
in  a  well-buttered  paper  bag,  placed  on  a  wire  grid  in  a  fairly  hot 
oven. 

APPLES  IN  'BUTTER. 

Take  two  green  apples,  core  them,  and  put  a  teaspoon  of  sugar  in 
each  core.  Put  them  into  the  bag,  add  a  little  butter,  and  two  table- 
spoons of  water.  Cook  20  to  30  minutes. 

APPLE  DUM'PLINGS. 

For  the  dumplings,  take  one  pound  of  flour,  2  quarts  of  water,  one- 
third  pound  of  lard,  two- thirds  pound  of  butter,  one  tablespoon  of 
sugar,  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Mix  these  together,  then  beat  together  the 
yolk  of  one  egg  and  half  a  pint  of  milk.  With  the  latter  paint  the 
dumplings  with  a  light  brush,  and  pepper  each  to  taste.  Peel  two  larpe 
green  apples,  core  and  sugar  them  Add  a  small  piece  of  butter,  and 
put  them  into  the  dumplings.  Put  into  the  bag,  with  two  tablespoons 
of  water,  and  cook  30  to  35  minutes. 

BREAD  PUDDING. 

To  one  quart  of  hot  milk,  stir  in  3  or  4  ounces  of  sugar.  Then  add  3 
eggs  well  beaten  and  a  few  drops  of  vanilla.  Put  into  the  bag  one 
quart  of  white  bread  cut  into  one-inch  cubes,  together  with  2  ounces  of 
raisins,  and  pour  the  above  over  all.  Cook  for  8  minutes. 

FARINA  PUDDING. 

To  one  and  one-half  pints  of  hot  milk,  add  one-quarter  pound  of 
farina  and  two  ounces  of  sugar.  Mix  the  milk  and  sugar  first.  Cook  for 
8  minutes.  Then  add  four  eggs,  well  beaten,  and  mix  the  whole  to- 
gether. Put  into  the  bag  and  cook  for  10  minutes. 

TAPIOCA  PUDDING. 

Dissolve  three  ounces  of  sugar  in  a  pint  of  hot  milk,  and  add  a  pinch 
of  salt.  Then  put  in  a  quarter  pound  of  tapioca  and  one  egg  well 
beaten.  Put  the  whole  into  the  bag  and  cook  for  30  minutes. 

LEMON  DUMiPLINGS. 

Four  ounces  of  bread  crumbs,  same  of  chopped  suet;  add  powdered 
sugar,  one  lemon  and  the  rind  grated,  mix  with  one  egg,  make  into 
dumplings.  Put  into  a  buttered  paper  bag,  and  cook  for  10  min- 
utes. Serve  with  maple  syrup  and  honey. 


Where  You  Cai  Boy 
the  Genuine  "Union 
Cookery  Bags" 

(Continued    from    Inside    Front    Cover.) 


I*  OtPPENHEIME'R,  340  Lenox  ave.; 
3441  Broadway;  734  Westcheater  ave.; 
1804  Intervale  -re. 

WASHINGTON  COURT  DELICATES- 
SEN, 3504  Broadway,  near  134th  St. 

BEN  AOKERMAN,  1834  Amsterdam 
Ave.,  near  150Ui  St. 

W.  BLUMQ,  2020  Amsterdam  Ave.,  »or. 
160th  St. 

EMPIRE  DAIRi,  373  Lenox  Av&,  meat 
129th  St. 

LINDEWTJRTH  BROTHER®,  755  Am- 
sterdam Ave.,  cor.  97th  St. 

18.  &  D.  I»tt*,N,  258S  Broad-way,  near 
97th  St. 

LEWIS'S  I>57LIC'ATM3SB''N!  1782  Am- 
sterdam Ave.,  cor.  148th  St. 

MTJRKEN  BROTHERS,  1S95  Amsterdam 
Ave.,  cor.  154th  St. 

MArvftATTAN  BUTTER  MARKm, 
(1974  Amsterdam  Ave..  near  158th  St. 

O.  A.  WURM  &  SON,  2957  Broadway 
2879  Broadway. 

A.   HEYER,  270  Lenox  Ave. 

EDWARD  RATTER,  421  Tremont  Ave.. 
bet.  Park  and  Webster  Aves.:  2690 
Third  Ave.,  near  143d  St.;  2189  Third 
Ave.,  near  119th  St.  Suburban 
Branches-  64.  Main  St.,  Madison, 
N.  J.;  2  Dock  St.  Yonkera,  N.  Y.; 
Cor.  219th  St.,  White  Plains  Road, 
Williamsbridse 

GRISTEDE  BROTHERS,  1439  St.  Nich- 
olas Ave.,  cor.  182d,  3t. ;  3796  Broad- 
way, cor.  158th  St.;  990  Amsterdam 
Ave.,  cor.  109th  St.;  1306  Amsterdam 
Ave.,  near  125th  St.;  841  Columbus 
Ave.,  cor.  101st  SU;  2112  Eighth  Ave., 
near  114th  St.;  2185  Eighth  Ave.,  near 
118th  St.;  2361  Seventh  Ave.,  cor. 
138th  St.:  137  Lenox  Ave.,  near  117th 
St.;  929  Prospect  Ave.,  cof.  163d  St.; 
1382  Boston  Road,  bet.  Prospect  and 
Union  Avea. 

BROOKLYN. 

ABRAHAM  &  STRAUS,  Fulton  St. 

FREDERICK  LOESEH  &  CO.,  Fulton 
6ft. 

A.  D.  MATTHEWS  SONS,   Fulton  St. 

J.   B.   VJSNTSiES,  Livingstone  St. 


H,  G.  BOHACK  CO..  1291  Broadway, 
Brooklyn,  op.  Lexington  Ave.;  941 
Broadway,  Brooklyn,  near  Myrtle  Ave. ; 
1S03  Broadway,  Brooklyn,  cor.  Granite 
St.;  1643  Broadway,  Brooklyn,  co* 
Covert  St. ;  1459  Broadway,  Brooklyn, 
cor.  Putnam  Ave.;  475  Rogers  Ave. 
Brooklyn,  cor.  Maple  St.;  3005  Fultoi 
St..  Brooklyn,  cor.  Limvood  St.;  1Q1S 
Flatbusli  Ave.,  cor.  Regent  PL;  130* 
Fulton  St.,  Brooklyn,  near  Nostratwl 
Ave.;  1569  Fulton  St.,  Brooklyn,  cor. 
Albany  Ave.;  300  Reid  Ave.,  Brooklyn, 
cor.  McDonough  St.;  318  Lafayette 
Ave.,  Brooklyn,  cor.  Grand  Ave.;  1124 
Bedford  Ave.,  Brooklyn,  near  Gates 
Ave.;  4123  Fort  Hamilton  Are.,  Brook- 
lyn, cor.  42d  St.  Suburban 
Branches:  271  Central  Ave.,  Far 
Rockaway  L.  I.;  1209  Jamaica  Ave., 
Richmond  Hill,  L.  I.;  3119  Jamaica 
Ave..  Richmond  IE11,  L.  I.;  399  Ful- 
ton. St.,  Jamaica,  L*  I.,  oor.  Harden- 
brook  Vve. 

NEWARK,   N.   J. 

«.  SCHEUER  &  SONS,  49  Ferry  St.; 
1094  Clinton  St.,  Irvington;  504  Clin- 
ton Ave..  cor  Chad  wick;  241  Clinton 
Ave..  cor.  Aborn;  1  Bowery  and  Mar- 
ket; 105  Harrison  Ave..  Harrison:  108 
Washington  Ave..  Belleville;  412 
Spring-field  Ave.,  Littleton;  252  Spring- 
iaeld  Ave..  Hayes;  251  Bank  St.,  New- 
ark; 373  South  Orange  Ave.,  529  Cen- 
tral Ave.  Suburban  Branches: 
PJainfieH,  N.  J. ,  Westfield,  N.  J.; 
Somerville,  N.  J. 

!L.  BAMBERGEJR  &  00.,  602  Centre  St. 

JERSE1    CITY,   N.  J. 

AMERICA!1  BUTTER.  CHEESE  AND 
EGG  CO.,  156  Newark  Ave. 

WEEHAWKEN,    N.    J. 

F.   BTJSCTFMANN,   140  Bullsferry  Road. 

HOBOKEN,    N.    J. 
S.  C.  TBUESE.N.   1026  Washington  St. 
GEIS'MAR  MEYER,  224  Washington  St. 
UNION    HILL,    N.    J. 

CORDT'S  TEA  STORi     146   Bergenlina 

Ave. 
SCHNEIDER      HARDWARE     CO.       5 

Btrgenline  Ave. 


Insist  on  the  Genuine  "Ueicn  Cookery  Bags 


99 


Anoth 

Next  Sunday  you 
of  that  splendid  ne 


UNIVERSITY   OF    CALIFORNIA 
LIBRARY 

Due  two  weeks  after  date, 

/'     19K-! 
WV  13 


THE 

SUNDA\ 

MAC 

Which  is  now  a 
of  the  great  SUND. 
FIRST  SUNDAY 

The  28  pag( 
periodical  ai 
nating  things 
including  anc 
stallment  of  . 
love  serial  ") 


Tell    you] 
early  that 


30m-7,'12 


236773 


