p.  E.  O. 


>* 


OK 


1      ,    -s/ 


\ 


'■■   (; 


UNlVERS\TYOF 
LIBRARY  FACIUTY 


* 


The  p.  E.O.Cook  Book 


CHAPTER  Z 


Harrisburg,  Illinois,  Nineteen  Hundred  Twenty-two 


ILLINOIS    PRINTING   CO.,      (WHW      DANVILLE.   ILL 


COCKTAILS 

p.  E.  O.  COCKTAILS 

i  Pound  marshmallows,  2|  pounds  white  grapes,  i  dozen 
oranges,  ^  dozen  lemons,  2  cans  pineapple,  i  pound  sugar, 
I  of  a  honeydew  melon.  Slightly  flatten  the  marshmallows, 
cut  in  strips  with  scissors  and  spread  on  a  platter  to  dry. 
Dice  the  melon,  pineapple,  6  oranges  and  2  lemons.  Add 
the  sugar  to  the  juice  of  4  lemons  and  6  oranges  and  mix  all 
together  and  place  on  ice.  When  ready  to  serve,  fill  cock- 
tail glasses,  arrange  marshmallow  petals  in  the  form  of 
marguerites  with  a  cube  of  orange  for  the  center,  on  top  of 
the  cocktails.     Serves  2^  people. 

Mrs.  Fannie  Gaskins. 

OYSTER  COCKTAILS 

Have  oysters  very  cold  and  free  from  bits  of  shell.  Put 
not  more  than  5  or  6  in  a  glass,  and  just  before  serving  cover 
with  the  following  dressing: 

Mix  together  i  tablespoon  lemon  juice,  5  drops  tahasco 
sauce,  I  tablespoon  tomato  catsup,  i  teaspoon  grated  horse- 
radish, I  teaspoon  Worcestershire  sauce,  and  salt  to  taste. 
This  quantity  makes  3  cocktails.  Serve  with  celery  and 
thin  slices  of  brown  bread. 

Mrs.  D.  a.  Lehman. 

OYSTER  COCKTAILS 

I  Small  bottle  catsup,  i  stalk  celery,  3  sour  pickles,  i 
small  bottle  capers,  red  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Put  over 
oysters  in  cocktail  glasses.  Mrs.  Fred  Baumer. 

FRUIT  COCKTAILS 

Cut  in  small  pieces  oranges,  pineapple,  nuts  and  figs; 
add  whole  Marischino  cherries,  some  of  the  cherry  liqiK)r 
and  lemon  juice.  Sweeten  to  taste,  serve  very  cold  with 
marshmallows  on  top.  Mrs.  D.  A.  Lehman. 


p.  E.  0.  COOK  BOOK 


WATERMELON  COCKTAILS 

Cut  chilled  cantaloupe  in  halves,  remove  seeds  and  fill 
with  balls  or  cubes  of  chilled  watermelon,  sprinkle  with 
powdered  sugar.  Serve  as  first  course  to  luncheon  or  din- 
ner. Mrs.  E.  C.  Clark. 


SOUPS 


ASPARAGUS  SOUP 

I  Can  of  asparagus  or  |  bunch  of  fresh  asparagus, 
reserving  the  tips  for  table  use;  J  pint  of  boiling  water; 
i  teaspoon  of  salt;  i  pint  of  sweet  milk;  i  tablespoon  flour; 
red  or  black  pepper. 

Cook  asparagus  until  tender  in  the  boiling  water,  make 
a  white  sauce  by  melting  butter  and  stirring  the  flour  in 
butter,  being  careful  not  to  let  it  brown.  Add  the  milk, 
stirring  constantly  to  prevent  lumps.  Add  seasoning. 
Mash  asparagus,  add  it  and  water  in  which  it  has  been 
cooked  to  sauce.  Mrs.  John  J.  Parish. 

BEAN  SOUP 

I  Pint  of  beans;  i  quart  of  rich  milk;  4  tablespoons 
butter;    i  teaspoon  salt;    |  teaspoon  pepper. 

Soak  the  beans  over  night.  Then  boil  in  clear  water 
until  they  will  mash,  rub  through  a  colander.  Add  milk, 
stirring  until  soup  is  smooth.     Add  butter,  pepper  and  salt. 

Mrs.  Chas.  Sloan. 

BREAD  SOUP 

Break  3  slices  of  stale  bread  into  small  pieces.  Put  into 
a  pan  with  2  tablespoons  of  fat,  add  a  minced  onion  and 
cook  3  minutes.  Add  3  cups  of  boiling  water,  salt  a'nd 
pepper.  Cover  and  cook  20  minutes  and  strain.  Add  i 
cupful  of  hot  milk,  chopped  parsley  and  seasonings  to  taste. 
Reheat  and  serve.  Mrs.  C.  D.  Stilwell. 

BEEF  TEA 

Cut  all  fat  from  round  steak,  cut  meat  into  small  pieces, 
put  into  a  glass  jar.  Cover  tightly.  Put  jar  into  boiling 
water  and  cook  8  hours.  Mrs.  John  J.  Parish. 


p.  E.  0.  COOK  BOOK 


BOUILLON 

Take  2  pounds  of  soup  meat  and  a  bone  containing  mar- 
row extra.  Soak  for  2  hours  in  2  quarts  of  cold  water,  to 
draw  out  the  Juices.  Add  a  sHced  carrot,  an  onion,  i  clove 
of  garlic  with  center  removed,  few  celery  stalks,  i  bay  leaf, 
a  few  sprigs  of  parsley  and  boil  slowly  until  the  meat  has 
fallen  from  the  bone.  Strain  through  a  cloth,  add  salt  and 
pepper  to  the  liquor  and  set  away  to  get  cold,  then  skim  off 
the  fat.  Heat  and  serve  with  small  crackers.  A  slice  of 
lemon  and  a  sprig  of  parsley  may  be  added  to  each  portion. 

Mrs.  C.  D.  Stilwell. 

CELERY  SOUP 

Follow  directions  for  making  asparagus  soup,  substitut- 
ing celery  for  asparagus.  Mrs.  John  J.  Parish. 

CHEESE  SOUP 

^  Onion;  2  tablespoons  butter;  2  tablespoons  flour;  i 
quart  milk;  2  egg  yolks;  J  cup  grated  cheese;  i  teaspoon 
salt;   pepper  to  taste. 

Slice  the  onion  and  cook  in  the  fat  until  tender.  Remove 
it  and  stir  in  the  flour,  then  add  the  milk,  saving  out  a  part 
of  a  cup.  Cook  until  smooth  and  pour  over  the  eggs,  which 
have  been  beaten  with  the  cold  milk,  and  serve  immediately. 

*Mrs.  C.  D.  Stilwell. 

CHICKEN  SOUP 

I  Cupof  ground  chicken;  i  pint  of  strong  chicken  broth; 
I  cup  of  sweet  cream;  ^  cup  cracker  crumbs;  3  egg  yolks; 
^  teaspoon  pepper;    i  teaspoon  salt. 

Soak  crumbs  in  a  little  cream.  Bring  broth  to  a  boiling 
point  and  add  chicken.  Boil  eggs  hard  and  mash  yolks  and 
add  to  soup  with  cream,  salt  and  pepper. 

Mrs.  Chas.  Sloan. 

CHICKEN  SOUP 

Cover  whole  dressed  chicken  with  cold  water  and  bring 
slowly  to  a  boiling  point;  let  boil  until  tender,  remove 
chicken,  add  2  cups  of  uncooked  rice  and  salt  and  cook  until 


SOUPS  9 

rice  is  tender.  Beat  whites  and  yolks  of  3  eggs  separately, 
then  mix  together.  Add  juice  of  2  lemons  to  soup.  Pour 
part  of  soup  over  eggs,  beating  the  eggs  until  thick.  Pour 
this  into  soup  and  serve  at  once.  This  makes  a  large 
amount  of  soup.  Mrs.  James  Gray. 

CHICKEN  BOUILLON 

Cut  the  nails  from  the  feet  and  eyes  from  the  head  of 
chicken.  Drop  the  feet  and  head  into  a  pan  of  boiling  water 
and  scald,  then  take  off  the  skin.  Put  into  the  kettle  with 
the  heart,  liver,  gizzard,  a  carrot  and  an  onion.  Cover  with 
water  and  cook  rapidly  two  hours.  Season  and  serve  hot 
or  cold.  Mrs.  C.  D.  Stilwell. 

CHICKEN  BROTH 

Cut  the  chicken  into  very  small  pieces  and  put  into  ajar 
filled  with  water,  add  a  little  salt,  cover  tight  and  simmer  all 
day  on  stove.     Strain  and  season  to  taste. 

Mrs.  Fred  Baumer. 

CONSOMME 

2  Pounds  lean  beef;  i  small  knuckle  veal;  2  tablespoons 
of  butter;  i  small  onion;  i  stalk  of  celery;  i  carrot;  i  bay 
leaf;    2  quarts  cold  water. 

Cut  beet  and  veal  into  small  pieces  and  brown  them  in 
butter  over  a  hot  fire.  Add  the  cold  water,  onion,  celery, 
carrot  and  bay  leaf  and  simmer  slowly  for  4  or  5  hours  in  a 
covered  kettle.  Take  from  the  fire  and  let  cool,  remove  the 
tat,  strain,  reheat  and  serve.  Bess  S.  Parish. 

CORN  SOUP 

I  can  corn;  i  cup  boiling  water;  i  quart  milk;  i  tea- 
spoon salt;   I  teaspoon  pepper;   4  tablespoons  butter. 

Pour  boiling  water  on  the  corn  and  cook  for  half  hour, 
then  ruL  through  a  sieve.  Heat  milk,  add  butter,  pepper, 
salt  and  strained  corn.  Mrs.  Chas.  Sloan. 

CORN  CHOWDER 

I  Can  ot  corn;   4  cups  of  potato  cubes;    i^  inch   cube  of 

(2) 


lo  p.  E.  0.  COOK  BOOK 

salt  pork;    3   tablespoons  butter;     i   sliced  onion;    4  cups 
scalded  milk;   salt  and  pepper. 

Cut  pork  into  small  pieces  and  fry  with  the  onion.  Strain 
fat  into  stewpan;  parboil  potatoes  five  minutes.  Drain 
and  add  the  fat.  Add  two  cups  boiling  water  and  cook 
until  potatoes  are  soft.  Add  corn  and  milk  and  heat  to 
boiling  point.     Add  salt,  pepper  and  butter. 

Mrs.  G.  T.  Gaskins. 

CREAM  OF  ONION 

Cut  2  medium  sized  onions  into  small  pieces  and  scald. 
Melt  2  tablespoons  of  butter  and  blend  with  2  tablespoons 
of  flour;  when  smooth  add  one  quart  of  sweet  milk  gradual- 
ly, season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  serve. 

Mrs.  C.  D.  Stilwell. 

CREAM  OF  RICE  AND  CHICKEN 

Cover  bones  with  3  pints  of  cold  water,  let  come  to  a  boil 
once  and  simmer  until  there  is  pint  of  stock,  add  i  teaspoon 
butter,  ^  teaspoon  nutmeg  and  cayenne.  Add  to  stock 
gradually  and  let  boil  up,  then  add  ^  cup  thick  rice,  J  cup 
cream,  grated  yolk  of  egg.  Mrs.  G.  T.  Gaskins. 

CREAM  OF  TOMATOES 

Add  to  2  quarts  of  milk,  butter,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste, 
and  a  little  rolled  crackers  and  let  come  to  a  boil.  Press  2 
quarts  of  tomatoes  through  a  sieve  to  remove  seeds.  Heat 
and  add  i  teaspoon  soda,  allow  to  eff^ervesce  and  stir 
into  boiling  milk.       Mrs.  J.  H.  Lane,  McLeansboro,  111. 

HAM  BONE  SOUP 

Place  in  saucepan  i  can  of  peas,  3I  pints  of  water,  i  ham 
bone  and  almost  any  kind  of  vegetable  that  will  give  flavor, 
as  carrots,  onion  or  turnip,  i  bay  leaf  and  parsley.  Eet  the 
whole  come  to  a  boil  and  cook  slowly  for  3  hours;  strain  the 
soup  and  run  the  vegetables  through  a  sieve,  return  to  the 
pan  and  let  boil  up;    add  salt  and  pepper. 

Mrs.  Ella  Marsh. 


SOUPS  II 

ICED  BOUILLON 

Make  a  regular  bouillon  but  season  a  little  higher, 
especially  salt  and  pepper.  After  the  fat  is  removed  keep 
on  ice  and  serve  ice  cold  with  toasted  bread  cubes  or 
sticks.  Mrs.  C.  D.  Stilwell. 

JELLIED  SOUP 

For  a  foundation  use  any  of  the  canned  soups,  consomme 
or  clear  soups.  To  each  can  of  soup  add  twice  its  quantity 
of  water.  Place  over  the  fire  with  ^  teaspoon  salt,  |  tea- 
spoon pepper  and  i  slice  of  onion  and  bring  slowly  to  the 
boiling  point.  In  the  meanwhile  have  i  tablespoon  granu- 
lated gelatine  in  2  tablespoons  of  cold  water.  When  the 
soup  is  boiling  remove  from  the  fire,  remove  onion  and  add 
softened  gelatine.  Set  aside  to  cool,  then  in  a  cold  place  to 
stifi^en.  It  the  soup  contains  vegetables  it  must  be  stirred 
several  times  while  cooling  to  distribute  them  thoroughly. 
If  the  thicker  soups  are  used  a  larger  amount  of  seasonings 
should  be  used  and  dilute  i  small  can  soup  to  make  a  quart. 

Mrs.  C.  D.  Stilwell. 

MARROW  BALLS 

Dig  the  marrow  out  of  bone  before  cooking  and  melt, 
beat  I  egg  light,  add  2  tablespoons  marrow,  minced  parsley 
and  enough  cracker  crumbs  to  form  into  small  balls,  drop 
into  soup  and  let  heat  through. 

Mrs.  Marie  Oehm. 

NOODLE  SOUP 

Beat  I  egg  very  light,  add  |  shell  vinegar  and  enough 
flour  to  make  like  pie  dough,  roll  out  very  thin  and  let  dry 
enough  to  roll.  Cut  very  fine  and  drop  into  soup  stock, 
cook  lo  minutes.  Noodles  will  keep  a  week  or  ten  days  in 
a  cool  place.  Mrs.  Marie  Oehm. 

NOODLE  SOUP 

Make  a  good  beef  soup,  when  almost  done  take  2  eggs 
and  beat  well,   then  work  in  as  much  flour  as   they  will 


12  P.  E.  0.  COOK  BOOK 

absorb,  then  roll  as  t'hin  as  a  wafer,  partly  dry  it  and  dust 
with  flour,  make  a  roll,  cut  into  strips,  shake  out.  A  tea- 
spoon of  salt  should  be  added  to  flour.  Boil  in  soup  lo 
minutes.  Mrs.  Fred  Baumer. 

OYSTER  STEW 
Make  a  paste  of  i  tablespoon  butter  and  2  of  flour,  r 
teaspoon  salt  and  a  pinch  of  pepper,  put  in  a  stewpan  on 
the  Are  i  pint  of  sweet  milk  and  i  pint  of  water;  when  this 
comes  to  a  boil  put  in  2  quarts  of  oysters  and  stir  in  the 
paste.  As  soon  as  it  comes  to  a  boil  remove  from  the  fire. 
Serve  at  once  with  crackers.  Mrs.  Fred  Baumer. 

PLAIN  WHITE  SOUP 

I  Knuckle  of  veal,  covered  with  cold  water  and  boiled 
gently  until  the  meat  tails  from  the  bones,  remove  the  bones, 
season  with  white  pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  add  i  quart  of 
sweet  milk,  a  little  butter  and  some  cooked  rice.  This 
makes  4  quarts  of  soup.  Mrs.  Fred  Baumer. 

PEANUT  SOUP 

In  the  top  of  the  double  boiler  place  i  quart  of  milk,  i 
bay  leaf,  §  teaspoon  onion  juice,  2  teaspoons  salt,  ^  teaspoon 
paprika.  When  the  milk  begins  to  heat  beat  in  i  cup  of 
peanut  butter,  using  an  egg  beater.  Cream  2  tablespoons 
of  flour  and  f  cup  of  milk,  add  to  soup  and  cook  15  minutes, 
then  strain  and  serve.  Mrs.  C.  D.  Stilwell. 

PIMENTO  BISQUE 

I  Cup  rice;  f  cup  of  cream;  3  cups  chicken  stock;  3 
pimentos;  ^  teaspoon  salt;  \  teaspoon  tabasco  sauce;  i  egg 
volk. 

Wash  the  rice,  cook  with  the  stock  until  tender,  add 
pimentos  and  press  through  a  sieve,  add  the  seasonings, 
bring  to  a  boil  and  add  the  egg  yolk  beaten  with  the  cre?m. 

Bess  S.  Parish. 
POTATO  SOUP 

Cook  3  medium  sized  potatoes  in  boiling  water  until 
tender  and  put  through  a  sieve.  Scald  a  quart  of  milk|to 
which  has  been  added  ^  onion  chopped  fine,  strain  the  milk 


SOUPS  13 

and  pour  over  the  potatoes.  Melt  i  tablespoon  butter  or  2 
if  skimmed  milk  has  been  used,  add  2  tablespoons  flour,  i 
teaspoon  salt  and  when  well  blended  add  a  little  cold  milk 
and  pour  into  the  mixture,  then  add  i  tablespoon  of  chopped 
parsley,  let  boil  and  serve  hot  with  toasted  crackers. 

Mrs.  C.  D.  Stilwell. 

SOUP  POWDER 

2  Ounces  each  of  parsley,  summer  savory,  sweet  marjo- 
ram anci  thyme,  i  ounce  each  of  lemon  peel  and  sweet  basil. 
Dry  and  pound,  sift  and  keep  in  a  tightly  corked  bottle. 

Mrs.  Fred  Baumer. 

SOUP  STOCK 

1  25c  Soup  bone,  if  gallons  of  water,  i  bay  leaf,  i  onion, 
I  garlic  button,  i  large  potato,  2  or  3  cloves,  i  turnip,  i  slice 
of  toast.  Cook  slowly  3  or  4  hours  and  drain  ofl^  the  liquid 
and  use  as  needed.  If  desired  celery  and  parsley  may  be 
used.  Mrs.  Marie  Oehm. 

SPANISH  SOUP 

i  Can  of  corn;  f  can  of  tomatoes;  i  Bermuda  onion;  i 
teaspoon  salt;  i  teaspoon  pepper;  i  pound  of  ground 
round  steak.  Cook  30  minutes.  Add  water  if  it  has.  not 
enough  liquor.  Mrs.  W.  V.  Rathbone. 

RIVVLE  SOUP 

Put  I  pint  of  flour  into  a  bowl,  make  a  hole  in  the  center 

^j:T«.^'*pak  an  egg  into  this.     Stir  egg  into  the  flour  with  a 

until  crulrndxv  enough   to  rub   between   the  palms.     Rub 

minutes.     Rivvte^^^yjikle  into  the  sOup  stock  and  cook  10 

place.     Cook  longer  afterTTtT-^.\^eek  or  ten  days  in* cool 

TOMATO  SOUP  TO  CAN  

:.  I  Peck  of  tomatoes;  i  bunch  celery  chopped;  6  onions^. 
Cook  all  and  put  through  sieve,  put  on  stove  again,  add  i 
cup  sugar,  \  cup  salt.  When  boiling  add  f  cup  flour  mois- 
tened with  cold  water.     Cook  and  seal  hot. 

Mrs.  D.  B.  Harvey. 


14  P.  E.  0.  COOK  BOOK 

FISH 

PIGS  IN  BLANKETS 

I  Dozen  large  oysters,  i  dozen  thin  slices  bacon,  season- 
ing. Pick  over  oysters  carefully.  Roll  each  in  a  slice  of 
bacon  and  fasten  ends  with  skewer.  Put  in  a  hot  pan  and 
cook  until  bacon  is  crisp.     Serve  very  hot. 

Mrs.  D.  a.  Lehman. 

OYSTERS  A  LA  DEWEY 

Allow  6  oysters  to  each  person.  Wash  and  drain  50 
good  sized  oysters,  throw  them  into  a  hot  saucepan  and 
shake  over  a  hot  fire  until  the  gills  curl.  Drain  and  save 
the  liquor.  Put  2  tablespoons  of  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add 
a  tablespoon  of  green  and  red  peppers  chopped,  shake  until 
the  pepper  is  thoroughly  cooked  but  not  browned,  add  2 
level  tablespoons  of  flour  and  mix.  Fill  a  measuring  cup 
half  full  of  the  liquor,  and  fill  it  up  with  cream  or  rich  milk; 
add  this  to  the  butter  and  flour,  stir  until  boiling  and  add 
the  oysters.  Add  a  level  teaspoon  of  salt,  take  from  the 
fire,  and  if  you  use  it,  add  2  tablespoons  of  sherry.  Turn 
at  once  into  the  serving  dish.     Serve  hot. 

Mrs.  G.  T.  Gaskins. 

OYSTER  SHORTCAKE 

I  Pint  flour,  ij  tablespoons  butter,  J  cup  sweet  milk,  i 
egg,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder.  Mix  as  biscuit  dough,.^'{fce 
bake  in  pie  pan.  While  hot  split  and  buttf^r  flour  and  i 
melt  3  tablespoons  butter,  add  'J^W  their  own  liquor  and 
pint-hot  milk.  Heat  i  r^'^^i  che  creamed  oysters  between 
add  to  sauce-  ^  ^  the  rest  with  cake  when  cut  and  served 
^^-  '-'^  "^  Mrs.  D.  B.  Harvey. 

SOMERSET  HALIBUT 
Arrange  6  slices  of  salt  pork  in  a  dripping  pan,  cover  with 
I  small  onion  thn.ly  sliced,  and  if  at  hand,%%m'all  piece  of 
bay  leaf.     Wipe  2  pounds  of  halibut  and  place  on  the  pork 
and  onions,  cover  withf  cup  of  buttered  cracker  crumbs  and 


FISH  15 

arrange  thin  strips  of  pork  over  the  crumbs.  Cover  with 
buttered  paper  and  bake  50  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 
Serve  with  lemon  and  parsley.  Mrs.  Fred  Baumer. 

BROILED  HALIBUT     ' 

Have  the  required  number  of  pieces  of  halibut  sliced 
about  I  inch  thick,  season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  lay 
them  in  melted  butter  \  hour,  allowing  3  tablespoons  butter 
to  each  pound  of  fish.  Roll  in  flour  and  broil  20  minutes. 
Do  not  turn  often  as  in  steak,  but  finish  first  side  before 
turning.  If  your  stove  has  no  broiler  the  fish  can  be  sauted 
in  butter  in  a  skillet.  Serve  very  hot  with  Tartar  sauce  or 
any  preferred  sauce. 

TARTAR  SAUCE 

J  Cup  butter,  i  teaspoon  lemon  juice,  i  tablespoon 
vinegar,  \  tablespoon  salt,  i  tablespoon  Worcestershire 
sauce.  Mix  the  other  ingredients  in  a  bowl,  set  in  hot 
water  and  add  the  butter. 

Mrs.  M.  S.  Coleman. 

FRESH  MACKEREL  COOKED  MOST  DELICIOUSLY 

Instead  of  frying  mackerel  in  a  spider,  place  it  in  a 
baking  pan  on  a  piece  of  old  cotton  cloth  or  thick  brown 
paper.  Sprinkle  over  a  little  salt  and  add  several  pieces  of 
salt  pork  or  butter  if  preferred.     Bake  in  a  hot  oven. 

Mrs.  Marsh. 

^       ,  FISH  CROQUETTES 

2  Cups  breuvi  _  ^ 

I  cup  cold  potatoes  cm^^l^cupjleft  over)  fish,  chopped  fine, 
fine  I  egg  well  beaten,  i  tablespv,  i  small  onion,  chopped 
salt!  pepper  and  sage,  mix  well  together  aim--  Season  with 
and  fry  a  nice  brown.  Mrs.  Fred  bAu.,^Vp, 

SAVORY  SMOKED  HADDOCK 

I  Smoked  haddock,  4  tablespoons  butter,  2  tablespoons 
milk,  juice  of  \  lemon,  4  teaspoons  flour,  2  teaspoons  parsley, 
pepper  to  taste.     Wash  the  fish  and  lay  m  a  bakmg  pan, 


1 6  P.  E.  0.  COOK  BOOK 

pour  in  boiling  water  to  merely  cover  it  and  bake  8  minutes. 
Then  carefully  remove  skin  and  bones  and  lift  the  fish  away 
in  neat,  large  unbroken  pieces,  of  a  convenient  size  for 
serving.  This«can  be  done  the  night  before  wanted.  Have 
milk  and  butter  hot  in  a  fire-proof  baking-dish,  lay  in  the 
fillets  of  fish  after  dipping  each  thickly  in  the  flour.  Baste 
well  with  the  milk  and  butter,  and  bake  lo  minutes.  Then 
strain  in  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice,  add  pepper  to  taste, 
and  the  parsley,  baste  again  and  serve  in  the  dish  in  which 
it  was  cooked. 

BAKED  WHITE  FISH 
Buffalo  or  cat  will  do.  Take  medium  sized  fish,  whole; 
stuff  with  cracker  crumbs  seasoned,  and  a  little  chopped 
celery  if  convenient.  Put  lumps  of  butter  over  top  of  fish. 
Bake  in  a  ordinary  baking  pan,  keeping  water  enough  in  to 
make  a  sauce.  Remove  skin  before  serving.  Serve  on  a 
platter  with  2  hard  boiled  eggs  chopped  finely  and  garnish 
with  parsley  and  lemon  sliced.  A  3  or  4  pound  fish  will 
bake  in  ij  hours. 

STUFFED  BAKED  FISH  WITH  WHITE  SAUCE 

Prepare  fish  for  cooking  and  wash  in  cold  water.  Make  a 
dressing  of  bread  crumbs,  salt,  pepper,  melted  butter  and 
I  egg.  Stuff  the  fish  and  sew  together,  leaving  room  for  the 
dressing  to  raise  while  cooking.  Have  hot  water  and  melted 
butter  in  the  roasting  pan  with  which  baste  fish  every  10  or 
15  minutes.  In  one  corner  of  the  pan  place  a  large ^jj^^^^J.^ 
onion  which  will  absorb  all  the  undesirable  sf^'Bake  at  least 
The  fish,  however,  will  not  taste  o/thver  with  white  sauce 
one  hour.     Place  on  hr^-     '  Mrs.  M.  S.  Coleman. 

garnish  an^     WHITE  SAUCE  FOR  FISH 

I   tablespoon  butter,   i   tablespoon  flour,  i  clip  boiling 
water,  ^  teaspoon  salt,  i  salt  spoon  pepper,  i  tablespoon 
lemon  juice.     Rub  butter  and  flour  together,  add  slowly 
stirnng  constantly,  the  boiling  water.     Stir  until  it  reaches 
boiling  point  and  add  salt,  pepper  and  lemon  juice. 

Mrs.  M.  S.'  Coleman. 


FISH  17 

CRAB  MEAT  WITH  MACARONI 

Boil  macaroni  in  2  quarts  salted  boiling  water  30  min- 
utes. Drain  and  pour  cold  water  over  it  to  blanch.  Place 
in  the  bottom  of  a  greased  baking  dish,  a  layer  of  macaroni, 
then  a  layer  of  butter  and  grated  cheese,  next  a  layer  of 
crab  meat  (canned  or  fresh)  and  repeat  in  layers  until  mate- 
rial is  all  used,  having  top  layer  butter  and  cheese.  Place  in 
oven  and  brown.  Mrs.  Fred  Baumer. 

CREOLE  SHRIMP 

Cook  together  rather  low  i  cup  tomatoes,  i  green  pep- 
per, a  little  chopped  onion,  salt  and  pepper.  Add  i  cup 
veined  shrimp  and  heat  thoroughly  about  10  minutes. 
Serve  with  rice.  Reba  Gaskins. 

TUNA  FISH  SALAD 

Line  a  dish  with  2  cups  of  shredded  lettuce;  place  con- 
tents of  I  can  of  tuna  fish  in  center;  pour  over  French  dress- 
ing to  which  onion  juice  has  been  added  and  cover  the  top 
of  the  fish  with  celery,  put  mayonnaise  ^"  ^op-  Sprinkle 
with  chopped  parsley. 

CREAMFi>  BAKED  TUNA  FISH 

Make  a  ^-tyular  cream  sauce  of  i  lump  of  butter,  i  table- 
_  ^..  nour,  I  pmt  milk.  Cream  i  can  tuna  fish  in  this 
sauce,  stir  in  about  i  cup  bread  crumbs,  previously  fried  in 
Wesson  oil,  and  spread  another  J  cup  over  the  top.  Bake 
in  hot  oven  i  hour.  Mrs.  R.  F.  Brown. 

SHRIMPS  A  LA  NEW^BURG 

Cut  into  small  pieces  2  cups  of  shrimps;  melt  \  cup  of 
fat  and  add  2  tablespoons  of  flour,  cook  3  minutes,  add  i^ 
cups  of  cream  and  when  the  mixture  has  thickened,  pour  in 
the  yolks  of  2  eggs,  slightly  beaten,  then  put  in  the  shrimps. 
Stir  constantly  until  the  shrimps  are  heated  through  and 
the  yolks  are  cooked.     Serve  on  toast. 

LOBSTER  A  LA  NEWBURG 

Follow  above  recipe,  substituting  lobster  for  shrimp. 


p.  E.  0.  COOK  BOOK 


P.  E.  O.  LOAF 

I  Can  salmon,  4  eggs,  i  tablespoon  melted  butter,  f  cup 
rolled  crackers.  Remove  skin  and  bone  from  salmon,  mix 
with  butter,  melted  but  not  hot,  until  smooth.  Beat  the 
eggs  and  add  them  to  the  cracker  crumbs.  Season  all  with 
salt  and  pepper  and  mix.  Mold  into  loaf  and  steam  i  hour. 
Serve  with  the  following  sauce:  i  cup  hot  milk,  i  table- 
spoon cornstarch  or  flour,  i  tablespoon  butter,  i  raw  egg, 
dash  of  red  pepper  and  liquor  from  the  salmon.  Melt  the 
butter,  add  the  flour,  then  the  milk,  stir  until  thickened, 
then  add  liquor.  Beat  the  egg  slightly  and  add  to  sauce 
as  it  is  taken  from  the  stove,  beating  well. 

Mrs.  D.  B.  Harvey. 

SALMON  CHOWDER 

I  Pound  can  salmon,  i  large  potato,  i  small  onion,  \ 
pound  salt  pork,  i  cup  milk  or  cream,  a  few  crackers,  salt 
and  pepper  to  taste.  Break  the  fish  into  small  pieces,  slice 
potato  and  onion  and  cut  the  pork  into  ^  inch  dice.  Fry 
pork  and  onion  togcvUer  until  lightly  browned  and  parboil 
potato.  Place  alternate  layci^.  potato,  fish,  pork  and  onion 
in  a  large  saucepan,  dust  with  sa\v  ^^^  pepper.  Barely 
cover  with  boiling  water  and  let  simmer  -jlk^  ^ninutes.  Scald 
the  milk  or  cream  and  add  \  tablespoon  butu,..  Arrange 
the  fish  mixture  in  tureen  and  pour  over  it  the  scalded  mn... 
Serve  very  hot  with  crackers.  G.  D. 

SALMON  EN  CASSEROLE 
Cook  I  cup  of  rice;  when  cold  line  baking  dish.  Take  i 
can  of  salmon  and  flake,  beat  2  eggs,^  cup  of  milk  i  table- 
spoon of  butter,  pinch  of  salt  and  a  dash  of  paprika.  Stir 
into  the  salmon,  cover  lightly  with  rice.  Steam  i  hour  and 
serve  with  white  sauce. 

SALMON  PIE 

Line  a  pudding  dish  with  hot  mashed  potatoes  about  i 
inch  or  i|  inches  thick,  then  fill  in  the  center  with  creamed 
salmon  (seasoned  with  onion  if  desired),  cover  with  mashed 


FISH  19 

potatoes,  brush  the  top  with  melted  butter  or  milk,  and 
bake  until  a  delicate  brown  and  serve  at  once. 

Mrs.  G.  T.  Gaskins. 

BAKED  SALMON  IN  PEPPER  CASES 

Remove  the  skin  and  bones  from  i  can  of  salmon  and 
season  with  salt,  pepper  and  onion  juice.  Mix  with  an 
equal  quantity  of  cracker  crumbs  moistened  with  butter. 
The  mixture  should  be  quite  moist;  a  little  milk  may  be 
added.  Cut  lengthwise  eight  sweet  green  peppers,  remove 
the  seeds,  parboil  5  minutes  and  fill  with  fish.  Put  in 
baking  pan,  surround  pan  with  hot  water  and  cook  until 
cases  are  soft  but  not  broken. 

BAKED  SALMON  WIGGLE 

I  can  of  salmon,  |  can  of  peas,  butter  size  of  egg,  salt  and 
pepper,  milk  sauce.     Bake  about  ^  hour. 

WHITE  SAUCE 

I  Pint  milk,  small  piece  butter,  salt,  thlcJ^en  with  heap- 
ing teaspoon  flour.  Mrs.  Marsh. 

SALMON  T><^  r-OTATO  BORDER 

While  Do^u.t■oes  are  boiling,  prepare  the  salmon  as  fol- 
W-  ^o  I  can  of  salmon  add  2  tablespoons  of  butter  i 
teaspoon  of  salt,  2  cups  of  milk  and  i  cup  of  bread  crumbs 
Boil  together  m  a  saucepan  and  rub  until  smooth;  keep  in  a 
warm  place  while  potatoes  are  being  mashed  and  arranged 
in  a  border  on  a  platter.     Heap  the  hot  salmon  in  the  center- 

u  a/FZ^^^"^  ^^^^^^  "^^'^^  ^^"^^-  ^"^^  extra  touch  may 
be  added  by  pouring  a  cup  of  white  sauce  over  the  salmon 
and  garnishing  with  slices  of  hard  boiled  eggs. 

POTATO  SURPRISES 

Makes  an  excellent  breakfast  or  luncheon  dish      Bake 
some  large  potatoes,  cut  a  slice  from  the  top,  and  with  a 
small  spoon  scoop  out  the  contents.     Place  half  the  amount  • 
aside  for  further  use— croquettes,  minced  potatoes  or  potato 
flummery.     Mash  the  remainder,  and  add  its  bulk  in  cooked 


20  P.  E.  0.  COOK  BOOK 

fish  chopped  line.  To  every  pint  of  fish  and  potatoes  add  a 
cup  of  cream,  i  teaspoon  of  chopped  parsley,  i  teaspoon 
salt,  a  dash  of  pepper,  and  the  yolks  of  2  raw  eggs.  Beat 
well  together,  then  add  the  whites  of  eggs  whisked  to  a  stiff" 
snow.  Stuff  the  skins,  replace  the  lid,  fastening  it  with  a 
wooden  toothpick.  Rub  the  skins  over  with  melted  butter, 
place  in  a  hot  oven  for  fifteen  minutes,  then  serve  at  once. 

Mrs.  Marsh. 

BAKED  FISH 

10  Pounds  fish,  place  in  pan  and  sprinkle  over  i  table- 
spoon of  salt,  I  teaspoon  black  pepper,  i  tablespoon  pepper 
sauce,  j;^2  tablespoons  tomato  catsup,  i  small  onion  chopped 
fine  and  sprinkle  in  side  of  fish,  then  sprinkle  i  cup  of  fiour 
over  fish,  and  three  tablespoons  of  grease  fried  out  of  good 
bacon,  then  pour  over  fish  i  quart  of  hot  water  and  let  bake 
1^  hours  in  moderate  oven.  Mrs.  J.  B.  Blackman. 

A  GOOD  STUFFING  FOR  FISH 

2  Cupci  of  bread  crumbs,  J  cup  melted  butter,  i  lemon 
(juice),  I  teaspcoi.  '%f  salt  and  a  little  pepper,  2  teaspoons  of 
chopped  parsley,  i  cup  iiv..  ^^ter. 

SCALLOPED  Oic^ri^Rs 

Crush  and  roll  several  handfuls  of  Bon^,,^  ^^^.  ^^j^^j. 
crackers.  Put  a  layer  in  the  bottom  of  a  buttereci  .,.,  • 
dish  Wet  this  with  a  mixture  of  the  oyster  liquor  and  mih<, 
siicrhtlv  warmed.  Next,  have  a  layer  of  oysters,  sprinkle 
with  salt  and  pepper,  and  lay  small  bits  of  butter  upon  them. 
Then  another  layer  of  moistened  crumbs,  thicker  than  the 
rest,  and  beat  i  eajg  into  the  milk  you  pour  over  them. 
Stick  bits  of  butter  thicklv  over  it.  Cover  the  dish,  set  it 
in  the  oven,  bake  h  hour,  if  the  dish  is  large,  remove  the 
cover  and  brown  by  setting  it  upon  the  upper  grate  of  oven. 

Mrs.  y.  B.  B  lac  km  ax. 


ENTREES 

RED  DEVIL 

Grate  i  pound  yellow  cheese,  add  i  can  tomato  soup  and 
I  can  Underwood's  deviled  ham.  Salt  and  pepper,  cook  as 
for  Welsh  rarebit  and  serve  on  crackers. 

Reba  Gaskins. 

POTATO  PUFFS 

I  Cup  cold  mashed  potatoes,  2  eggs,  ^  cup  flour,  J  tea- 
spoon salt,  I  teaspoon  baking  powder.  Beat  eggs  light,  add 
potatoes  and  flour,  salt  and  baking  powder,  sifted  together. 
Drop  by  small  spoonsful  into  hot  fat  and  cook  to  a  golden 
brown.  Mrs.  M.  S.  Coleman. 

RICE  CROQUETTES 

I  Cup  cold  boiled  rice,  i  pint  flour,  i  cup  milk,  i  tea- 
spoon salt,  2  eggs,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder.  Beat  eggs 
light  and  add  after  other  ingredients  are  well  mixed,  making 
a  stiff  batter.     Fry  in  deep  fat.         Mrs.  D.  B.  Harvey. 

CORN  FRITTERS 

I  Can  corn,  i  cup  flour,  i  teaspoon  baking  powder,  2  tea- 
spoons salt,  2  eggs.  Chop  corn  and  add  dry  ingredients 
mixed  and  sifted,  then  add  yolks  of  eggs  beaten  until  thick 
and  fold  in  whites  of  eggs  beaten  dry.  Fry  by  small  spoons- 
ful in  hot  fat.  Mrs.  M.  S.  Coleman. 


22  P.  E.  0.  COOK  BOOK 


BREAD 

Bread  will  keep  fresh  and  soft  longer  if  it  isn't  worked 
too  stiff  with  flour. 

BREAD  IN  FOUR  HOURS 

4  Cups  boiling  water,  i^  tablespoons  sugar,  i|  table- 
spoons salt,  4  tablespoons  lard  or  substitute,  i  cake  com- 
pressed yeast,  j  cup  luke  warm  water,  3  quarts  sifted  flour. 
Pour  boiling  water  over  lard  or  substitute  and  salt.  When 
luke  warm  add  dissolved  yeast  and  2  quarts  flour,  beat  2  or 
3  minutes.  Cover,  keep  in  warm  place  until  double  in  bulk. 
Add  2  cups  flour  and  knead  until  mixture  is  smooth.  Place 
in  floured  bowl  and  let  rise  again.  Knead  lightly,  shape 
and  place  in  buttered  pans.  When  double  in  bulk  bake  in 
hot  oven.  Mrs.  W.  V.  Rathbone. 

HOT  ROLLS  AND  BREAD 

I  Cake  Yeast  Foam  dissolved  in  f  cup  water,  3  medium 
sized  potatoes  boiled  in  i  pint  water,  2  heaping  kitchen 
spoons  flour,  i  teaspoon  salt,  i  tablespoon  sugar.  Mix  at 
noon.  Mash  potatoes  fine.  Pour  scalding  potato  water 
over  flour,  potatoes,  sugar  and  salt.  When  cool  add  ^  cup 
water  with  yeast.  Put  in  warm  place  until  next  morning, 
then  take  i  sifter  flour,  make  hole  in  center,  put  in  i  table- 
spoon sugar,  2  teaspoons  salt,  i  tablespoon  lard  or  butter, 
I  cup  yeast,  i  cup  water.  Beat  into  flour  and  then  knead. 
Let  rise  until  double  in  bulk.  Pinch  off  rolls  and  mold 
into  loaves.  Let  rise  until  double  in  bulk.  Bake  rolls  15 
minutes  and  bread  i  hour.  Mrs.  W.  V.  Rathbone. 

ROLLS 

Mix  I  large  potato,  i  cake  spoon  of  flour  heaping,  i 
tablespoon  sugar,  i  teaspoon  salt,  i  pint  of  potato  water, 
not  boiling.  When  cool  add  i  cake  Yeast  Foam.  Let  fer- 
ment h  day  and  then  keep  on  ice.  Take  about  i  quart 
flour,  make  hole  in  middle,  add  i  tablespoon  sugar,  ^  tea- 
spoon salt,  I  large  tablespoon  laud,  f  cup  warm  water,  |  cup 


BREAD  23 

liquid  yeast.     Beat  20  minutes,  gradually  pulling  in   the 
flour,  make  into  rolls,  let  rise  and  bake. 

Mrs-.  Etta  Karraker. 

PARKER  HOUSE  ROLLS 

Dissolve  i\  cakes  of  Fleischmann's  yeast  and  4  table- 
spoons sugar  in  i  pint  sweet  milk  previously  scalded  and 
allowed  to  become  lukewarm.  To  this  add  5  tablespoons 
lard  and  2  pints  of  Woolcott's  Cream  of  Patent  flour.  Beat 
until  smooth  and  put  in  a  warm  place  until  light,  about  i 
hour.  Then  add  i  teaspoon  salt  and  flour  enough  to  make 
a  soft  dough,  knead  very  little.  Put  in  greased  bowl  and 
grease  top,  set  in  warm  place  and  allow  to  double  in  bulk, 
about  1 1  hours.  Roll  out  |  inch  thick  on  a  floured  board, 
cut  out  with  a  large  sized  biscuit  cutter,  brush  top  with 
melted  lard  and  fold  over;  place  in  greased  pan  h  inch  apart, 
allow  to  double  in  size  (about  |:  of  an  hour)  and  bake  in  a 
hot  oven  10  to  12  minutes.  If  they  rise  too  soon  for  baking 
time  hold  back  by  putting  pan  in- refrigerator  or  basement. 

Mrs.  Eva  Clark. 

PARKER  HOUSE  ROLLS 

I  Cake  Fleischmann's  yeast,  i  pint  scalded  milk,  2  table- 
spoons sugar,  4  tablespoons  melted  butter  or  lard,  3  pints 
sifted  flour,  2  teaspoons  salt.  Scald  and  cool  milk;  when 
luke  warm  add  yeast  and  sugar,  dissolve  and  add  to  i^  pints 
flour,  to  which  lard  or  butter  has  been  added.  Beat  until 
smooth,  cover  and  let  rise  in  a  warm  place  about  i  hour. 
Add  salt  and  rest  of  flour,  knead  well  until  dough  won't 
stick  to  fingers.  Cover  and  put  in  a  warm  place  to  rise  for 
about  2  hours  or  until  double  in  bulk.  Roll  out  \  inch  thick, 
grease,  cut  out  with  2  inch  cutter.  Crease  through  center 
with  dull  edge  of  knife,  fold  over  and  place  in  well  greased 
shallow  pans  i  inch  apart.  Bake  in  hot  over  15  or  20 
minutes.  Mrs.  W.  V.  Rathbone. 

DENVER  ROLLS 

I  Cake  of  Fleischmann's  yeast  soaked  in  i  cup  warm 
water.     Melt  i  cup  lard  in  i  f^fuart  sweet  milk,  i  cup  mashed 


24  p.  E.  0.  COOK  BOOK 

potatoes,  f  cup  sugar.  Mix  and  add  about  2  quarts  flour, 
let  rise  in  warm  place  over  night.  Next  morning  add  i  tea- 
spoon soda,  I  heaping  teaspoon  baking  powder,  i  teaspoon 
salt,  add  more  flour  and  mix  well  with  spoon.  Knead 
lightly  and  let  rise.  Pinch  ofl^  dough  as  needed  and  roll  out 
I  inch  thick  and  cut  with  biscuit  cutter.  Dough  will  keep 
a  week  or  longer.  Mrs.  W.  V.  Rath  bone. 

ROLLS 

i\t  noon  dissolve  J  cake  Yeast  Foam  in  |  pint  water, 
then  add  handful  sugar  and  enough  flour  to  make  stiff  batter 
or  as  stiff  as  biscuit  dough,  set  in  warm  place  till  night,  then 
take  I  pint  of  milk  or  water  with  ^  cup  lard  and  h  cup  sugar 
and  let  come  to  a  boil,  then  set  aside  to  cool.  When  cool 
add  to  the  yeast  that  you  prepared  at  noon  and  add  hand- 
ful salt  and  enough  flour  to  make  stiff  dough  and  place  in 
vessel  and  set  in  warm  place  till  morning,  when  it  is  ready 
to  make  into  rolls  or  bread.  Be  sure  to  grease  pans  well, 
let  rise  from  2  to  3  hours  and  bake  in  moderate  oven. 
Dough  will  keep  until  next  day,  when  more  rolls  will  be 
desired.  Mrs.  J.  B.  Hetherington. 

BUTTERMILK  ROLLS 

Heat  I  pint  fresh  buttermilk  to  boiling  point  and  stir 
frequently  to  prevent  curdling,  add  J  tablespoon  sugar,  set 
aside  until  luke  warm  and  mix  in  gradually  i  pint  of  graham 
and  white  flour  mixed.  Cover  closely  and  let  stand  over 
night.  In  the  morning  add  to  the  sponge  2  tablespoons 
molasses,  |:  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  a  tablespoon  hot 
water,  i  teaspoon  salt,  2  tablespoons  shortening.  Beat  the 
batter  well,  gradually  add  sufficient  white  flour  to  make  a 
dough  that  can  be  handled.  Knead  until  very  smooth, 
form  into  small  rolls  and  bake  at  once  in  moderate  oven. 

Mrs.  Fred  Baumer. 

COLONIAL  BREAD 

3  Cups  flour,  J  cup  sugar,  J  cup  raisins,  J  cup  chopped 
nuts,  2  cups  sweet  milk,  i  teaspoon  salt,  3  heaping  teaspoons 
baking  powder  sifted  3  times.     Bake  in  slow  oven  about  i 
*hour.  '    Mrs.  W.  V.  Rathbone. 


BREAD  •  25 

NUT  BREAD 

i\  Cups  flour,  i\  level  teaspoons  baking  powder,  \  cup 
sugar,  \  teaspoon  salt,  J  cup  chopped  nuts,  i  egg  beaten 
light,  I  cup  sweet  milk.  Sift  flour,  baking  powder,  sugar 
and  salt  3  or  4  times,  add  nuts  and  milk  to  the  egg,  then  stir 
in  the  ingredients.     Bake  30  minutes  in  buttered  pan. 

Mrs.  W.  V.  Rathbone. 

NUT  BREAD 

I  Egg,  \  cup  sugar,  i  cup  milk,  i\  cups  flour,  i  teaspoon 
baking  powder,  pinch  salt,  i  cup  nuts.  Bake  slowly  about 
\  hour.  Mrs.  Roy  L.  Seright. 

NUT  BREAD 

4  Cups  white  flour,  1  cups  sweet  milk,  i  cup  chopped 
nuts,  \  cup  sugar,  2  eggs,  4  teaspoons  baking  powder,  i  tea- 
spoon salt.  Let  stand  in  baking  pan  20  minutes  and  bake 
45  minutes.  Mrs.  C.  E.  Combe. 

NUT  BREAD 

I  Egg,  I  cup  sweet  milk,  i  cup  sugar,  4  cups  flour,  2 
heaping  teaspoons  baking  powder,  i  teaspoon  salt,  i  cup 
nut  meats.  Mix  as  a  cake,  put  in  a  bread  pan  and  let  rise 
20  minutes.     Bake  45  or  50  minutes  in  rather  slow  oven. 

Mrs.  Clarence  Bonnell. 

NUT  BREAD 

I  Egg,  I  cup  milk,  i  cup  sugar,  pinch  of  salt,  3  cups 
flour,  3  heaping  teaspoons  baking  powder,  i  cup  nut  meats. 
This  makes  2  loaves.     Bake  in  moderate  oven  't^q>  minutes. 

Mrs.  D.  B.  Harvey. 

BROWN  BREAD 

I  Cup  molasses  (New  Orleans  or  sorghum),  i  cup  sweet 
milk,  I  cup  sour  milk,  2  cups  graham  flour,  i  cup  corn  meal, 
2  teaspoons  soda,  i  teaspoon  baking  powder,  salt  to  taste. 
Place  in  round  cans,  set  in  pot  boiling  water  and  let  boil  3 
hours  without  removing  covers  trom  cans. 

Mrs.  J.  B.  Hetherington. 

(3) 


26  p.  E.  0,  COOK  BOOK 


SOUTHERN  SPOON  BREAD 

Boil  I  pint  sweet  milk,  stir  in  i  scant  cup  corn  meal; 
when  cool  add  i  teaspoon  baking  powder,  \  teaspoon  salt, 
I  tablespoon  sugar,  i  tablespoon  butter,  the  beaten  yolks 
of  4  eggs  and  last  the  stiffly  beaten  whites.  Bake  J  hour  in 
baking  dish  and  serve  hot  with  plenty  of  butter. 

Mrs.  C.  E.  Combe. 

SOUTHERN  SPOON  BREAD 

ij  Cups  corn  meal,  3  cups  buttermilk,  J  teaspoon  soda, 
I  teaspoon  salt,  2  eggs  well  beaten.     Bake  30  minutes. 

Mrs.  W.  V.  Rathbone. 

SCOTCH  SCONES 

Sift  2  cups  flour,  add  i  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  i  pint 
sour  milk,  mix  to  a  soft  dough,  roll  out  i  inch  thick  on  floured 
board.  Cut  in  biscuit  shape  and  bake  on  a  hot  greased 
griddle  until  brown  on  both  sides.     Serve  with  butter. 

Mrs.  Fred  Baumer. 

12  SCONES 

I  Pint  sifted  flour,  i  egg,  i  heaping  tablespoon  lard, 
pinch  of  salt,  i  heaping  teaspoon  baking  powder,  enough 
milk  for  a  soft  dough,  add  beaten  egg  with  milk.  Roll  thin, 
spread  with  butter,  cut  in  squares  and  fold.     Bake. 

Mrs.  C.  E.  Combe. 

STOCKBRIDGE  BREAD 

I  Cup  sifted  white  corn  meal,  i  cup  boiling  water,  i 
tablespoon  butter,  \  cup  sweet  milk,  ^  teaspoon  salt,  i  egg. 
Pour  meal  into  water  and  stir,  cook  briskly  until  smooth 
(about  5  minutes),  take  from  fire  and  add  butter  and  salt, 
stir  in  well,  add  milk  and  well  beaten  egg,  beat  all  hard,  put 
in  buttered  dish,  cook  in  moderate  oven  until  raised  and 
brown.  Mrs.  D.  A.  Lehman. 

GRAHAM  LOAF 

I  Egg  beaten,  J  teaspoon  salt,  2  tablespoons  sugar,  i  cup 
sour  milk,   ^   teaspoon   soda,   mix   all    together   well,    add 


BREAD  27 

enough  graham  flour  to  make  a  little  thicker  than  cake 
dough,  bake  20  minutes  in  slow  oven. 

Mrs.  D.  a.  Lehman. 

BISCUIT  DOUGH  SCHNECKEN 

To  a  regular  baking  powder  biscuit  dough  add  an  egg. 
Roll  out  the  dough  lightly  on  a  floured  board,  fill  the  dough 
with  grated  almonds,  minced  citron,  chopped  raisins,  dabs 
of  jelly  and  plenty  of  butter.  Bake  in  greased  deep  skillet 
and  put  bits  of  butter  and  sugar  over  the  top  of  the  rolled, 
filled,  snail  like  schnecken.  These  are  especially  nice  for 
afternoon  coflPee.  Mrs.  Fred  Baumer. 

BRAN  BREAD 

2  Cups  clear  bran,  i  cup  flour,  |  cup  molasses  with  i  tea- 
spoon soda  dissolved  in  it,  i  cup  buttermilk.  Flavor  if 
preferred.  Make  into  loaf  and  bake  in  slow  oven  i  hour. 
Highly  recommended  by  doctors. 

RAISIN  PUFFS 

2  Eggs,  4  to  6  tablespoons  melted  butter,  2  cups  flour,  i 
cup  sweet  milk,  2  tablespoons  sugar,  2  teaspoons  baking 
powder  or  instead  of  i  teaspoon  baking  soda  and  2  teaspoons 
cream  tartar,  i  cup  seeded  raisins  chopped  fine,  steam  |  hour 
in  tea  cups.  This  seems  to  make  the  puffs  better  flavored. 
Have  either  hard  or  soft  sauce  to  pour  over  them. 

Mrs.  Fannie  Gaskins. 

DATE  MUFFINS 

i  Cup  butter,  \  cup  sugar,  \  teaspoon  salt,  i  egg,  %  cup 
milk,  2  cups  flour,  4  teaspoons  baking  powder,  |  pound 
dates  cut  fine.  Sift  dry  ingredients  and  cut  dates  into  it. 
Cream  butter  and  sugar  and  add  milk  and  other  ingredients. 
Bake  in  muffin  pans  25  minutes.  These  muffins  are  good 
without  the  dates  or  other  fruit  may  be  used. 

Mrs.  C.  E.  Combe. 

POTATO  FLOUR  MUFFINS 

4  Eggs,  pinch  salt,  |  cup  potato  flour,  i  teaspoon  baking 
powder,  i  teaspoon  melted  butter,  2  tablespoons  ice  water. 


28  p.  E.  0.  COOK  BOOK 

Beat  whites  of  eggs  very  stiff  and  dry,  add  salt  and  butter  to 
beaten  yolks  and  fold  into  whites,  sift  flour  and  baking 
powder  twice  and  thoroughly  beat  into  egg  mixture.  Bake 
in  moderate  oven  15  or  20  minutes.  Not  good  if  they  stand 
over  5  minutes.  Mrs.  Fannie  Gaskins. 

PLAIN  WHITE  MUFFINS 

2  Cups  flour,  I  cup  sweet  milk,  J  cup  melted  butter,  i 
teaspoon  soda,  2  teaspoons  cream  tartar,  2  tablespoons 
sugar,  I  egg  well  beaten.     Bake  in  gem  pans  J  hour. 

Mrs.  W.  V.  Rathbone. 

GRAHAM  GEMS 

1  Cup  sweet  milk,  i  cup  graham  flour,  2  teaspoons  sugar, 
I  egg  well  beaten,  i  teaspoon  baking  powder,  \  teaspoon 
salt.     Bake  in  gem  pans  in  hot  oven  15  minutes. 

Mrs.  W.  V.  Rathbone. 

GRAHAM  GEMS 

2  Cups  sour  milk,  i  teaspoon  soda,"  i  egg,  butter  size  of 
walnut,  I  teaspoon  salt,  i  tablespoon  sugar,  i  cup  white 
flour  and  enough  graham  flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter.  Bake 
in  gem  pans.  Mrs.  M.  S.  Coleman. 

WAFFLES 

2  Eggs,  I  cup  sour  milk,  if  cups  flour,  i  tablespoon 
melted  butter,  J  teaspoon  salt,  i  tablespoon  sugar,  \  tea- 
spoon soda,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder.  Beat  egg  yolks 
light,  add,  alternately,  beating  well,  the  milk  and  flour. 
When  mixed  well  add  butter,  baking  powder,  salt  and 
whipped  whites  of  eggs.     All  measurements  are  level. 

Mrs.  Grace  Baker. 

WAFFLES 

I  Egg  well  beaten,  i  pint  buttermilk,  i  teaspoon  soda, 
I  heaping  teaspoon  baking  powder,  i  teaspoon  salt,  f  pint 
flour  (winter  wheat),  |  pint  meal,  2  tablespoons  melted  fat. 
It  will  take  less  spring  wheat  flour. 

Mrs.  C.  D.  Stilwell. 


BREAD  29 

WAFFLES 

2  Eggs,  1  tablespoons  sugar,  2  heaping  tablespoons  but- 
ter, I  pint  milk,  i  pint  flour,  2  heaping  tablespoons  baking 
powder,  i  teaspoon  salt.  Beat  yolks  of  eggs,  add  sugar, 
milk,  salt  and  flour;  next  add  melted  butter.  Just  before 
ready  to  bake  add  baking  powder  and  beaten  whites  of  eggs. 
Cook  in  hot  waflle  irons.  Eat  on  empty  stomach.  Use 
plenty  of  butter  and  maple  syrup. 

Mrs.  Warren  G.  Harding. 

WAFFLES 

2  Cups  flour  (level  cups  after  sifted),  2  cups  sweet  milk, 
2  tablespoons  melted  Crisco  or  butter,  i  egg  beaten  separate- 
ly, 2  heaping  teaspoons  baking  powder  added  to  the  flour, 
pinch  of  salt.      Mrs.  Pauline  WallexN,  McLeansboro,  111. 

PANCAKES 

Sift  together  2  cups  flour,  ^  teaspoon  salt,  i  teaspoon 
soda,  I  teaspoon  baking  powder,  add  2  cups  thick  butter- 
milk and  beat  well;  add  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  well  beaten,  and 
mix  thoroughly.  Lastly  fold  in  the  whites  of  2  eggs  beaten 
stiff".  Slowly  heat  griddle  just  short  of  heat  to  burn,  grease 
well,  pour  on  batter  and  soon  as  bubbles  form  turn  cake  over 
lightly,  brown  other  side  and  serve  at  once.  Should  cakes 
fall  add  a  very  little  more  flour. 

Mrs.  Fannie  Gaskins. 

CREAM  TOAST 

I  Tablespoon  butter,  2  tablespoons  flour,  h  teaspoon 
salt,  rub  together  while  cooking  slowly,  add  i  pint  warm 
milk  stirring  constantly  until  thick.  Have  bread  toasted, 
heaped  in  dish  and  cover  with  the  sauce.  Creamed  beef 
may  be  prepared  the  same  way  only  omit  the  salt. 

Mrs.  D.  a.  Lehman. 

DROP  BISCUITS 

3  Cups  flour,  3  teaspoons  baking  powder,  2  tablespoons 
butter  or  lard,  \  teaspoon  salt,  i^  cups  milk,  sift  baking 
powder,  salt  and  flour,  rub  in  butter,  add  milk  and  beat  to 


30  P.  E.  O.  COOK  BOOK 

a  soft  dough.     Drop  by  tablespoon  on  pan  an  inch  apart 
and  bake  in  hot  oven.  Mrs.  D.  A.  Lehman. 

BRAN  MUFFINS 

2  Cups  bran,  i  cup  flour,  i  teaspoon  salt,  i  tablespoons 
sugar,  I  egg,  J  teaspoon  soda,  J  cup  molasses,  ij  cups  milk, 
J  cup  raisins  or  dates,  cut  fine.  Makes  one  dozen  muflins. 
Bake  ^  hour.     Sugar  may  be  omitted. 

Mrs.  D.  B.  Harvey. 

BRAN  BREAD 

I  Pint  flour,  i  quart  bran,  i  cup  molasses,  i  teaspoon 
soda,  I  teaspoon  salt,  i  egg,  i  pint  sour  milk,  i  cup  raisins 
or  dates.     Bake  50  or  60  minutes,  in  buttered  bread  pans. 

Mrs.  D.  B.  Harvey. 

OATMEAL  BREAD 

I  Cup  oatmeal,  2  cups  boiling  water,  J  cup  molasses,  i 
tablespoon  butter,  J  tablespoon  salt,  i  cake  yeast.  Scald 
the  oatmeal  with  hot  water  and  let  stand  until  luke  warm. 
Add  molasses,  butter,  salt  and  yeast.  Add  flour  to  make  a 
soft  dough.  Put  in  buttered  bread  pans  to  rise.  When  it 
has  almost  doubled  in  bulk,  bake  as  other  bread. 

Mrs.  D.  B.  Harvey. 

POPOVERS 

§  Cup  milk,  2  eggs,  \  teaspoon  salt,  i  cup  flour.  Beat 
eggs  very  light,  stir  in  the  milk,  add  the  sifted  flour  and  salt, 
mixing  as  little  as  possible.  Butter  gem  pans  and  set  them 
in  the  oven  to  heat.  When  hot  fill  each  pan  about  one-third 
full  of  batter.    Return  to  oven  and  bake  about  45  minutes. 

Mrs.  D.  B.  Harvey. 

ICE  BOX  ROLLS 

Dissolve  one  cake  of  Yeast  Foam ;  i  tablespoon  of  sugar ; 
I  pint  of  warm  water;  i  teaspoon  of  salt;  enough  flour  to 
make  a  stiffs  batter.  Let  stand  until  morning.  In  the  morn- 
ing let  one  pint  of  sweet  milk  come  to  a  boil.  Melt  i  cup 
of  lard,  and  i  cup  of  sugar  in  the  boiling  milk.     When  cool 


BREAD  31 

enough,  mix  this  in  the  batter.  Beat  1  eggs  until  very  light 
and  mix  into  the  batter  also.  Add  flour  needed  and  knead 
15  minutes,  then  set  to  rise.  Let  stand  about  an  hour, 
then  make  the  quantity  of  rolls  you  need,  about  three  hours 
before  time  to  cook  them.  Then  cook  in  moderate  oven 
about  twenty  minutes.  Put  rest  of  dough  away  in  a  cool 
place,  well  covered.  Mrs.  D.  A.  Lehman. 

BREAD 

2  Medium  or  one  large  potato  boiled  and  mashed,  i  pint 
of  potato  water  put  over  potato,  i  teaspoon  of  salt,  1  table- 
spoons of  sugar,  enough  flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter.  Soak 
a  cake  of  Yeast  Foam  in  warm  water  30  minutes.  Mix  all 
together  and  let  rise  in  warm  place  over  night.  In  morning 
put  sifted  flour  in  pan.  Put  in  sponge  ^  pint  of  warm  water, 
2  tablespoons  of  sugar,  i  teaspoon  of  salt,  3  tablespoons  of 
lard.  Work  in  enough  flour  to  keep  hands  from  sticking. 
Then  knead  20  minutes  and  let  rise  until  twice  the  size 
(about  2  hours).  Then  work  down,  and  then  let  rise  again 
about  I  hour.  Put  in  pans,  then  when  twice  its  size  bake 
in  slow  oven.  Mrs.  M.  D.  Eddleman. 


32  p.  E.  0.  COOK  BOOK 


MEATS 

In  selecting  beef  see  that  the  lean  is  a  clear,  bright  red, 
the  fat  firm  and  a  creamy  white,  never  yellow;  then  you 
may  be  reasonably  sure  that  meat  is  fresh  and  from  a  young 
animal.  In  selecting  poultry  the  eyes  should  be  bright,  the 
comb  red,  the  nostrils  clean  and  dry,  the  feet  and  legs 
smooth  and  free  from  scales,  the  breast  plump  and  the  tip 
end  of  the  breastbone  soft  and  yielding  to  pressure.  A  fowl 
that  has  these  requirements  is  young,  healthy  and  at  least 
moderately  fat. 

The  best  meat  can  be  ruined  by  poor  cooking,  and  the 
poorest  cut  can  be  made  palatable  and  nutritious  by  proper 
preparation.  A  roast  or  steak  should  be  quickly  seared  on 
the  outside  to  harden  the  albumen  and  retain  the  juices, 
and  then  the  heat  reduced  to  finish  cooking  to  make  the 
inside  tender  and  juicy,  otherwise  your  roast,  or  steak,  will 
be  dry  and  hard;  for  the  same  reason  never  salt  your  meat 
until  it  is  almost  done.  Never  beat  a  steak  as  it  crushes  the 
fibers,  allowing  the  juices  to  escape.  If  the  steak  is  tough, 
and  you  have  time,  put  three  or  four  tablespoons  of  oil,  or 
melted  butter,  mixed  with  an  equal  amount  of  vinegar,  on 
a  platter  and  place  your  steak  in  that  for  two  hours,  turning 
every  20  minutes,  then  cook  in  the  usual  manner,  or  if  in 
a  hurry  take  a  very  sharp  knife,  and  score  the  meat  about 
one-half  inch  apart  each  way  on  both  sides.  "The  chief 
reason  for  the  bad  opinion  in  which  fried  food  is  held  by 
many  is  that  it  always  means  eating  burned  fat.  When  fat 
is  heated  too  high  it  splits  up  into  fatty  acids  and  glycerin, 
and  from  the  glycerin  is  formed  a  substance  (Acrolein) 
which  is  very  irritating  to  the  mucous  membrane.  All  will 
recall  that  the  fumes  of  scorched  fat  makes  the  eyes  water. 
It  is  not  surprising  that  such  a  substance,  if  taken  into  the 
stomach,  should  cause  digestive  disturbance.  Fat  in  itself 
is  a  very  valuable  food,  and  the  objection  to  fried  foods 
because  they  may  be  fat  seems  illogical." — U.  S.  Depart- 
ment of  Agriculture^  Farmers'  Bulletin  391. 

In  boiling  or  roasting  15  minutes  to  the  pound  and  15 


MEATS.  23 

minutes  longer  is  the  rule  for  beef  and  mutton,  and  20  min- 
utes to  the  pound  and  20  minutes  longer  for  pork,  poultry, 
veal  and  lamb.  Allow  one-third  to  one-half  pound  of  raw 
meat  for  each  person  to  be  served,  of  roast  or  steak,  and  one- 
quarter  pound  if  to  be  used  in  a  pie,  or  with  vegetables  or 
dressing.  Salt  meat  should  be  put  on  in  cold  water  so  that 
it  may  freshen  in  cooking.  This  applies  to  boiling  a  ham 
and  to  ham  sliced  for  frying,  if  it  is  too  salty.  Put  the  slices 
in  a  skillet  and  cover  with  cold  water,  heat  almost  to  boiling, 
remove  ham  and  fry  in  the  usual  way  and  it  will  be  sweet  and 
tender.  Salt  meat  requires  almost  half  as  long  again  for 
boiling  or  roasting  as  fresh  meat,  due  to  the  effect  of  salt  on 
the  tissues.  Meat  in  boiling  loses  about  one-third,  in 
roasting  the  loss  is  about  one-fourth. 

By  keeping  a  supply  of  dried  celery  leaves,  parsley,  bay 
leaf  (to  be  used  sparingly),  thyme,  peppers,  whole  cloves, 
onions,  carrots,  horseradish,  catsup  and  Worcestershire 
sauce,  any  cook  need  have  no  trouble  in  giving  variety  to 
the  flavor  of  her  meat  dishes,  either  by  frying  in  the  fat 
before  searing  the  meat,  or  by  adding  to  the  sauce  to  serve 
with  it. 

In  making  sauces  or  gravies  of  the  fat,  about  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  fat  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  flour  to  one  cup 
of  milk  or  other  liquid,  is  melted,  then  the  flour  added  and 
browned  and  then  the  milk  added  slowly  and  stirred  con- 
stantly until  of  the  right  consistency  the  product  will  be 
smooth. 

Some  of  the  more  common  accompaniments  to  different 
meats  are: 

Boiled  Beef — Horseradish,  good  if  mixed  with  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  prepared  mustard  and  a  little  whipped  cream. 

Roast  Chicken  or  Turkey — Cranberry  sauce. 

Roast  Goose  or  Pork — Apple  sauce. 

Roast  Lamb — Mint  sauce. 

Boiled  Mutton — Caper  sauce. 

Broiled  Steak — Mushroom  sauce. 

Breaded  Veal  Cutlets — Tomato  sauce. 

A   Kitchen   Bouquet,  referred   to   in  many  recipes  for 


34  P-  E.  0.  COOK  BOOK 

soup,  may  be  made  as  follows:  A  sprig  of  parsley,  savory 
and  thyme,  one  leaf  of  sage  and  one  bay  leaf.  This  will 
flavor  one  gallon  of  soup  if  cooked  in  it  one  hour,  and  should 
not  remain  in  it  longer. 

BROILED  STEAK 
Have  steak  cut  at  least  ij  inches  thick.  Wipe  clean  with 
damp  cloth  and  trim  off  excess  fat.  Grease  broiler  so  steak 
will  not  stick.  Broil  over  live  coals  turning  each  half 
minute  for  3  minutes,  after  which  the  steak  may  be  finished 
at  a  lower  temperature,  turning  every  minute  or  two  until 
it  is  done.  Time  required  varies  from  8  to  20  minutes, 
according  to  thickness  of  steak  and  degree  of  cooking 
desired.  Sprinkle  a  little  salt,  evenly  over  a  hot  platter, 
and  place  steak  on  it.  Salt  and  pepper  top  to  taste,  dot  with 
bits  of  butter  and  serve;  or  you  may  use  any  sauce  you  like, 
but  avoid  masking  the  flavor  of  the  meat  with  one  that  is 
stronger.  Mabel  Eberhard. 

PAN  BROILING 
Heat  a  heavy  iron  frying  pan  smoking  hot  without  add- 
ing any  fat.     Sear  the  meat  on  both  sides.     Decrease  the 
heat  and  cook  slowly  until  done,  turning  every  10  seconds. 

Mabel  Eberhard. 

ROUND  STEAK 

2  Pounds  round  steak  cut  thick,  ij  inches.  Season  with 
salt  and  pepper  on  both  sides.  Rub  into  the  meat  2  table- 
spoons of  lard  or  drippings,  roll  in  flour,  place  in  pan  and 
half  cover  with  water.  Cook  ij  hours,  in  slow  oven. 
Keep  pan  covered.     Add  more  water  if  necessary. 

Mrs.  D.  B.  Harvey. 

FRIED  STEAK 
Have  steak  trimmed  and  ready  to  fry.  Put  fat  enough 
in  heavy  iron  pan  to  come  to  top  of  steak,  but  not  to  cover. 
Heat  smoking  hot.  Dip  steak  quickly  into  water,  then  into 
pan  of  flour  and  turn,  forming  a  thick  coating  on  each  side. 
Place  in  hot  fat  and  let  fry  to  a  golden  brown.  Before  turn- 
ing sprinkle  lightly  with  salt  and  pepper.     Turn  and  fry 


MEATS  3S 

other  side  the  same  way,  keeping  fat  quite  hot  all  the  time. 
Cook  uncovered.  Your  steak  will  be  tender  and  juicy  with 
crisp,  golden  crust. 

Mrs.  W.  M.  Cordier,  Clearwater,  Fla. 

SWISS  STEAK 
3  Pounds  round  steak,  ij  or  2  inches  thick,  |  cup  of 
flour,  2  tablespoons  of  butter,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 
Pound  the  steak  until  tissue  is  thoroughly  broken,  adding 
the  flour  while  pounding.  Melt  butter  in  frying  pan. 
Put  in  meat  and  sear  on  both  sides.  Add  boiling  water 
and  let  simmer  2  or  3  hours,  or  bake  in  moderate  oven  same 
length  of  time.  Mrs.  J.  J.  Morris. 

HAMBURGER  STEAK 

I  Pound  lean  beef  (round),  |  teaspoon  of  salt,-g-  teaspoon 
of  pepper,  i  teaspoon  chopped  celery,  i  teaspoon  onion 
juice.  Run  meat  through  grinder,  season,  shape  into  small 
flat  cakes  and  pan  broil,  just  rubbing  pan  with  a  little  fat. 

Mrs.  J.  J.  Morris. 

BAKED  STEAK 

Buy  thick  steak.  Broil  first,  leaving  steak  rare.  Place 
in  pan  and  pour  over  steak  i  small  bottle  of  catsup,  same 
amount  of  water,  i  onion  minced,  i  green  pepper  cut  fine, 
I  tablespoon  of  Worcestershire  sauce,  salt,  pepper,  butter, 
tabasco  sauce  to  taste.  Use  any  vegetable,  mushroom, 
asparagus  or  cauliflower.  If  the  latter  cook  first  in  salt 
water.     Bake  30  minutes  in  hot  oven.     Do  not  turn. 

Bess  S.  Parish. 

PLANKED  STEAK 

Use  sirloin  steak,  cut  2J  inches  thick,  remove  the  flank 
end,  also  the  tenderloin  and  take  out  bones.  The  plank 
upon  which  the  steak  is  cooked  should  be  of  oak,  and  soaked 
in  cold  water  for  at  least  an  hour.  Heat  the  broiler  and 
place  the  plank  in  the  oven.  Cook  the  steak  in  the  broiler 
and  then  remove  to  the  hot  plank.  Around  the  edge  of 
the  plank  place  mashed  potatoes  that  have  been  forced  out 
of  a  pastry  bag;   onions  and  green  peppers  may  be  placed 


J 


6  P.  E.  0.  COOK  BOOK 


on  top  of  steak,  which  is  then  placed  in  the  oven  for  ten 
minutes.  The  tenderloin  makes  nice  small  steaks  and  the 
flank  may  be  used  for  hamburg  steak.  G.  D. 

BREADED  BEEF  OR  PORK  TENDERLOIN. 
Have  tenderloin   cut   i   inch   thick  and  flattened  with 
meat  cleaver.     Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  dip  in  beaten 
egg,  then  in  cracker  crumbs  and  fry  until  brown  in  hot  fat. 

Miss  Ruby  Rice. 

BREADED  VEAL  CUTLETS  WITH  TOMATO  SAUCE 

Divide  the  cutlet  into  as  many  pieces  as  there  are  persons 
to  serve.  Roll  each  piece  in  flour,  dip  into  beaten  egg  then 
into  bread  or  cracker  crumbs,  patting. down  with  tbe  flat 
side  of  a  knife  or  spatula.  Fry  in  bacon  drippings  or  lard 
until  the  cutlet  is  a  golden  brown;  let  stand  in  the  oven  for 
awhile,  that  it  may  cook  through.  Serve  with  tomato 
sauce. 

TOMATO  SAUCE  FOR  VEAL  CUTLETS 

Rub  through  a  sieve  i  cup  of  cooked  tomatoes,  adding 
i^  cups  of  cold  water,  2  or  3  small  onions  minced  fine,  i 
carrot  cut  fine  and  a  soup  bunch;  cook  20  minutes  and  then 
add  3  tablespoons  of  cornstarch  dissolved  in  cold  water,  i 
tablespoon  of  sugar,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  and  if  you  like 
the  flavor,  a  pinch  of  mustard;  after  it  has  been  brought 
to  a  boil,  let  cool  for  10  minutes,  run  through  a  fine  sieve  and 
serve  with  the  cutlets. 

FLANK  STEAK  AND  DRESSING 

I  Cup  soft  crumbs,  2  tablespoons  parsley,  2  tablespoons 
celery,  2  tablespoons  onion,  J  teaspoon  salt,  |  teaspoon 
paprika,  melted  butter  and  enough  hot  water  to  moisten. 
Square  steak  and  lay  two  strips  of  bacon  on  meat,  then  roll 
in  dressing  and  tie.  Put  diced  onions  and  carrots  in  pan. 
Bake  i|  hours  in  slow  oven.  Mrs.  D.  A.  Lehman. 

POT  ROAST 

Use  a  cut  from  the  rump  or  shoulder  for  a  pot  roast. 
Season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  dredge  well  with  flour. 


MEATS  37 

Try  out  a  piece  of  suet  in  a  Dutch  oven,  or  iron  kettle,  and 
add  lard  to  make  enough  fat  to  brown  the  roast  well.  When 
brown  on  both  sides  add  water  enough  to  barely  cover 
roast,  and  cook  slowly,  adding  more  water  as  needed  while 
cooking.  Slices  of  onion,  may  be  browned  in  the  fat  before 
searing  the  meat.  Potatoes  may  be  added  to  the  roast  30 
minutes  before  serving.  Ruby  Rice. 

INEXPENSIVE  POT  ROAST 

Take  3  or  4  pounds  of  beef  from  the  shoulder.  Put  a 
spoonful  of  lard  or  suet  in  a  Dutch  oven  and  heat  smoking' 
hot,  put  in  the  meat  and  brown  well  on  both  sides,  then  salt 
and  add  a  small  onion  cut  fine  and  i  bay  leaf.  Cook  slowly 
I  to  3  hours  or  until  meat  is  tender.  Remove  meat  and 
make  gravy  by  adding  i  tablespoonful  of  flour  and  i  cup  of 
hot  water.     Cook  until  thick  enough  and  serve. 

Mrs.  Georgia  Farley,  St.  Louis,  Mo. 

POT  ROAST 

Brown  an  onion  finely  sliced,  in  a  frying-pan  with  hot 
bacon  fat.  Sear  a  3-pound  chuck  roast  on  both  sides.  Place 
the  meat  in  a  roaster  or  heavy  pot  roasting  pan.  To  the 
mixture  in  the  frying  pan  add  2  cups  of  tomatoes,  2  small 
onions  sliced  and  ^  cup  of  raw  carrots  ground  in  food  chop- 
per. Heat  well  and  pour  over  the  meat.  Cover  the  pan 
and  cook  the  meat  slowly,  on  top  of  the  stove  for  2  hours, 
basting  frequently  with  the  liquid.  Season  to  taste  after 
first  hour  of  cooking. 

Mrs.  Val  B.  Campbell,  Mcleansboro,  111. 

POT  ROAST  WITH  POTATOES 

Take  a  3-pound  rump  roast.  Dredge  well  with  flour. 
Have  a  Dutch  oven  or  iron  kettle  with  enough  lard  and  suet, 
equal  parts,  to  brown  the  roast  well  on  all  sides;  just  be:'T)re 
the  last  side  is  brown  add  a  tablespoon  of  flour  to  the  fat 
and  let  brown.  Salt  and  pepper  the  roast  and  add  i  tea- 
spoon dried  powdered  parsley,  i  teaspoon  powdered  celery 
and  I  bay  leaf.  Add  i  pint  boiling  water,  cover  and  cook 
slowly  until  meat  is  tender,  adding  water  as  needed.     30 


38  P.  E.  0.  COOK  BOOK 

Minutes  before  serving  place  medium  sized  potatoes  around 
the  roast,  adding  water  enough  to  come  half  way  up  on  the 
potatoes.  Sprinkle  the  top  of  each  potato  slightly  with 
salt.  Cook  15  minutes,  turn  each  potato  in  the  gravy  and 
finish  cooking.  Your  gravy  should  be  quite  brown  and  at 
least  a  pint  to  serve  with  the  potatoes.  Garnish  roast  with 
fresh  parsley.  Mrs.  G.  T.  Gaskins. 

SWISS  ROAST 

Take  a  round  steak  2  or  2J  inches  thick  and  pound  into 
it  as  much  flour  as  it  will  take,  using  the  edge  of  a  heavy 
plate  for  the  pounding.  Flour  both  sides,  put  meat  into  a 
skillet  with  some  lard  and  brown  on  each  side.  Cover  with 
cold  water,  adding^:  medium  sized  onion  sliced,  i  large 
tomato  sliced,  or  equal  amount  of  canned  tomato,  cover 
tightly  and  cook  2  hours,  adding  more  water  if  necessary. 
Before  meat  is  done  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Thicken 
gravy  in  pan  with  a  tablespoon  of  flour  and  serve  in  gravy 
boat.  Mrs.  Orval  Ferrell. 

VEAL  STEW 

Use  a  cheap  cut  of  meat  for  this  stew.  Neck  brisket  or 
plate  are  good.  Cut  meat  into  ij  inch  pieces;  salt,  pepper 
and  dredge  well  with  flour.  Brown  well  in  hot  fat  and  cook 
slowly,  for  2|  or  3  hours.  Potatoes,  onions  and  carrots 
may  be  added.  *       Ruby  Rice. 

STEW  IN  OVEN 

I  Can  either  pressed  ham,  tongue,  deviled  ham  or  sal- 
mon. Measure  meat  minced.  Take  3  times  as  much  Irish 
potato  peeled  and  run  through  meat  chopper,  j  teaspoon 
chili  pepper,  pinch  of  thyme,  salt  to  taste,  i  onion  minced, 
I  tomato,  J  teaspoon  mustard.  Place  all  in  bean  pot,  cover 
with  water  and  bake  or  stew  i  hour.  Just  before  removing 
from  oven  add  J  cup  of  rich  cream. 

Mrs.  J.  C.  B.  Heaton,  New  Burnside,  111. 

SHOULDER  OF  VEAL 

Buy  5  pounds  of  shoulder  of  veal  and  have  the  bone 


MEATS  39 

removed.  Fill  the  cavity  with  dressing  and  sew  or  tie  in 
place.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  place  strips  of  salt 
pork  on  top.  Bake  and  baste  occasionally.  Dressing: 
Stale  bread,  moistened  with  cold  water.  Add  salt,  pepper, 
sage,  I  tablespoon  of  minced  onion,  i  teaspoon  minced 
parsley,  i  tablespoonful  melted  butter,  i  egg.  Serve  with 
brown  sauce  made  from  liquor.         Mrs.  D.  B.  Harvey. 

MEAT  STEW  WITH  DUMPLINGS 

5  Pounds  beef,  4  cups  potatoes  cut  in  cubes,  f  cup  each 
of  turnips  and  carrots  cut  in  \  inch  cubes,  \  onion  chopped, 
\  cup  of  flour,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Put  meat  on  in 
boiling  water,  let  boil  5  minutes,  then  simmer  for  2  hours 
or  more.  Add  vegetables  ^  hour  before  meat  is  done;  then 
the  dumplings  are  put  on  top  of  stew  10  minutes  before 
serving. 

Dumplings  I:  2  cups  flour,  4  teaspoons  baking  powder, 
^  teaspoon  salt,  2  teaspoons  butter,  f  cup  broth,  or  enough 
to  make  dough  to  roll. 

Dumplings  II:  2  cups  of  flour,  2  teaspoons  baking  pow- 
der, I  teaspoon  salt  and  enough  milk  to  make  a  stiff  drop 
batter. 

STEAMED  DUMPLINGS 

I  Pint  of  flour,  2  heaping  teaspoons  baking  powder,  | 
teaspoon  salt,  all  sifted  together  four  times.  Mix  with  i 
cup  of  sweet  milk,  and  drop  by  spoonsful  on  stew.  Let 
steam  10  minutes  without  removing  cover,  when  they 
should  be  done.  Mrs.  D.  A.  Lehman. 

GOLD  ROAST  STEW 

Cut  any  cold  roast  in  small  pieces.  Add  any  gravy  or 
stock,  or  enough  water  to  cook  onions,  carrots,  green  sweet 
peppers,  salt,  pepper  and  potatoes,  if  desired,  in  proportion 
to  amount  of  meat.  Cook  all  together  until  vegetables  are 
done.  Pour  into  a  casserole.  Make  biscuits  as  usual  and 
cut  in  small  size.  Cover  the  top  of  stew  with  the  biscuit. 
Bake  in  hot  oven  and  serve  at  once. 

Mrs.  J.  H.  Crawford. 


40  P.  E.  0.  COOK  BOOK 

DIGESTIBLE  DUMPLINGS 

To  I  egg  well  beaten  add  ^  saltspoon  of  salt,  J  saltspoon 
of  sugar,  I  dessert  spoon  of  soft  butter,  i  small  cup  of  milk, 
and  2  large  teaspoons  of  baking  powder  sifted  with  a  pint  of 
flour.  Add  enough  flour  to  make  a  stiff"  batter.  Do  not 
touch  with  fingers,  but  drop  by  small  tablespoons  into  the 
boiling  meat  liquor  8  minutes  before  serving.  Do  not  allow 
steam  to  escape  while  cooking. 

Mrs.  Roy  L.  Seright. 

MEAT  PIE 

Have  meat  cut  up  as  for  stew.  Boil  until,  tender  and 
thicken  with  a  little  flour.  Put  in  baking  pan  with  plenty 
of  liquor.  Make  biscuit  dough  and  roll  thin,  cut  out  with 
biscuit  cutter  and  cover  top  of  meat  and  bake.  Serve  in 
pan  in  which  the  pie  is  cooked.  The  cheaper  cuts  of  meat 
can  be  used.  Mrs.  C.  A.  Taylor. 

VEAL  PIE 

Boil  I  pound  of  veal  until  tender.  Make  a  crust  as  you 
would  for  any  meat  pie.  Have  plenty  of  the  broth  with  salt, 
pepper  and  butter.  Put  the  crust  in  the  pan,  then  the  veal, 
break  four  eggs  into  this;  a  few  oysters  added  is  good  but 
not  necessary.  Put  top  crust  on  and  bake.  Serves  four 
people.  Mrs.  T.  D.  Gregg. 

MEAT  PIE 

Veal  or  beef  should  be  cut  into  small  pieces  and  stewed 
until  tender  with  some  onion.  Add  potatoes  diced  ^  hour 
before  meat  is  done.  Place  this  in  baking  dish,  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste.  Cover  with  strips  of  baking  powder 
biscuit  dough  and  brown  in  the  oven.  Ruby  Rice. 

COTTAGE  PIE 

Alternate  layers  of  mashed  potato  and  highly  seasoned 
minced  beef,  baking  whole  in  a  pie  crust  in  baking  dish. 

PATTIES 

To  I  cup  of  chopped  cold  meat  of  any  kind,  add  i  to  i| 
cups  of  boiled  rice,  J  cup  of  chopped  onion,  i  egg,  salt  and 


MEATS  41 

>  — 

pepper  to  taste.     Mix  well  and  form  into  patties;    roll  in 
toast  or  bread  crumbs,  and  fry  in  plenty  of  fat. 

Miss  Lena  May  Sherman,  Chicago,  111. 

BEEF  LOAF 

To  i\  pounds  of  round  steak,  chopped,  add  |  cup 
minced  onion,  salt  and  plenty  of  black  pepper,  i  egg  well 
beaten,  brown  2  cups  of  bread  crumbs  in  butter,  stirring 
constantly,  add  to  the  other  ingredients  and  mix  well,  if 
not  moist  enough  add  a  little  cream,  milk  or  water  and 
form  into  a  loaf.  Place  in  a  well  greased  pan  or  bits  of 
suet  may  be  placed  under  loaf,  cook  30  minutes,  pour  to- 
mato sauce  in  pan  and  bake  f  to  i  hour  longer. 

Tomato  Sauce  for  Beef  Loaf:  3  cups  tomatoes,  §  cup 
chopped  onion,  salt  and  i  red  pepper  pod,  with  seeds  re- 
moved, take  pepper  out  when  same  has  enough  of  the  pep- 
per flavor.         Miss  Lena  May  Sherman,  Chicago,  111. 

MEAT  LOAF 

3  Pounds  beef  ground,  \  pound  bacon  ground,  3  eggs,  3 
tablespoons  of  milk,  i  teaspoon  black  pepper,  i  teaspoon 
salt,  large,  i  level  teaspoon  sage,  4  pounded  crackers  or  \ 
cup  of  bread  crumbs.  Mix  the  meat,  salt,  pepper,  sage  and 
milk.  Beat  eggs  and  add  crumbs.  Mix  all  in  a  loaf,  mince 
I  green  pepper  and  sprinkle  over  top.  Bake  2J  hours. 
Baste  with  butter  and  water  while  baking. 

Mrs.  D.  B.  Harvey. 

MEAT  LOAF 

To  1 1  pounds  of  round  steak  of  beef  or  veal,  add  i  pound 
of  the  lean  of  pork  shoulder  and  grind  all  together,  including 
fat  of  pork,  i^  Cups  cracker  crumbs,  i  large  or  two  small 
eggs,  I  cup  sweet  milk,  i  teaspoon  sage,  if  liked,  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste.  Mix  well,  mould  into  loaf,  sprinkle  top 
with  cracker  crumbs,  dot  with  butter,  put  in  casserole  and 
pour  I  pint  boiling  water  around  it,  cover  and  bake  in  oven 
I A  to  2  hours.  When  mixed  always  broil  a  small  bit  to  see 
if  it  has  enough  seasoning.  Some  families  prefer  2  table- 
spoons of  minced  onion,  or  2  or  3  cloves  of  garlic,  to  the  sage, 
for  flavor.  Mrs.  G.  T.  Gaskins. 

(4) 


42  p.  E.  0.  COOK  BOOK 

CASSEROLE  OF  BEEF 

Cut  lean  meat  of  cold  roast  beef,  or  veal,  into  cubes, 
removing  fat  and  gristle.  Boil  J  pound  macaroni  in  salted 
water  until  tender  and  drain.  Add  left  over  gravy  to 
stewed  tomatoes.  Put  into  casserole  alternate  layers  of 
meat  and  macaroni,  pouring  gravy  and  tomatoes  over  each, 
meat  layer,  cover  top  with  fine  buttered  bread  crumbs  and 
bake  over  medium  flame  until  brown.  Allow  two  cups  of 
gravy  and  tomatoes  to  each  cupful  of  meat. 

Mrs.  Fred  Baumer. 

MEAT  SOUFLE 

2  Cups  chopped  meat,  i  pint  milk,  2  eggs,  i  teaspoon 
butter,  2  tablespoons  flour,  chopped  onion  to  taste.  Heat 
milk,  mix  flour  and  butter  and  stir  into  milk,  beat  yolks  of 
eggs  and  add  to  milk,  add  to  meat  and  onion,  mix  well  and 
lastly  add  the  whites  beaten  until  stiff.  Mix,  put  in  pan 
and  bake  until  done.  Mrs.  Fred  Baumer. 

BEEF  OLIVES 

Cut  thin  slices  of  steak  into  2  by  3  inches.  Grate  J  slice 
bread  into  crumbs.  Mix  with  this  a  little  salt,  pepper  and 
very  finely  minced  suet.  Add  just  enough  cold  water  to 
hold  together,  a  very  little  is  necessary,  and  spread  a  layer 
of  this  mixture  on  each  piece  of  meat,  roll  and  tie  with  white 
thread  to  hold  in  form  of  roll  or  fasten  with  meat  skewers. 
Flour  well  and  fry  in  hot  fat.  Remove  olives  and  make 
gravy  by  adding  flour  and  water.  Return  the  meat  rolls 
and  cook  slowly  by  side  of  the  fire  2  to  3  hours. 

Mrs.  Ed.  Heister. 

VEAL  BIRDS 

Take  strips  of  veal  steak  3x5  inches.  Place  spoonful  of 
bread  dressing,  made  with  onion,  on  each  strip,  roll  and 
fasten  with  toothpicks.  Roll  in  flour  and  brown  in  plenty 
of  fat,  then  add  hot  water  enough  to  almost  cover  meat 
and  steam  slowly  ij  to  2  houfs  in  moderate  oven. 

Mrs.  E.  C.  Jones,  Chicago,  111. 


MEATS  43 

VEAL  BIRDS 

Cut  thin  slices  of  veal  in  pieces  2x4  inches.  Season  and 
spread  with  bread  dressing,  roll  and  fasten  with  toothpicks. 
Roll  in  flour  and  brown  in  hot  fat,  turning  often.  When 
nearly  done  cover  with  boiling  water  or  tomato  sauce,  and 
let  simmer  until  tender.     Serve  with  the  sauce. 

Ruby  Rice. 
VEAL  BIRDS 

Take  thin  slices  of  veal  cut  from  leg  and  remove  bone, 
skin  and  fat.  Pound  until  \  inch  thick  and  cut  into  pieces 
2^  inches  long  by  i^  inches  wide.  Each  piece  making  a 
bird.  Make  a  dressing  of  the  trimmings  of  the  meat,  a 
piece  of  thick  salt  pork,  i  by  i  J  inches,  chop  fine,  add  to  this 
J  their  measure  of  fine  cracker  crumbs.  Season  highly  with 
salt,  pepper,  cayenne,  lemon  and  onion  juice.  Spread  each 
piece  of  veal  with  thin  layer  of  this  mixture.  Avoid  getting 
too  close  to  the  edge.  Roll  and  fasten  with  toothpicks. 
Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  dredge  with  flour  and  fry  a 
golden  brown  in  hot  butter.  Put  in  stew  pan  and  half  cover 
with  cream,  cook  slowly  until  tender,  about  20  minutes,  and 
serve  on  small  pieces  of  toast.  Mrs.  D.  A.  Lehman.     • 

PIGS  IN  BLANKETS 

I  Cup  raw  hamburg  steak,  i  cup  cooked  rice,  i  green 
pepper  chopped  fine,  tiny  bits  of  onion.  Pour  boiling  water 
over  cabbage  leaves,  let  come  to  a  simmer,  take  out  and  fill 
with  ingredients,  fasten  with  toothpicks,  put  thin  slice  of 
bacon  on  each  and  bake.  Mrs,  Fred  Baumer. 

PIGS  IN  BLANKETS 
Have  ready  a  dozen  large  oysters  and  a  dozen  thin  slices 
of  bacon.  Roll  each  oyster  in  a  slice  of  bacon  and  fasten 
ends  with  toothpicks.  Put  in  a  hot  skillet  or  chafing  dish 
and  cook  until  the  bacon  is  crisp.  Season  with  salt  and 
pepper  and  serve  very  hot  on  small  pieces  of  toast. 

DRIED  BEEF  WITH  RICE 

J  Pound  dried  beef,  2  tablespoons  of  flour,  ij  cups  of 
milk,   2  tablespoons  grated  cheese,  \   teaspoon  pepper,   2 


44  P'  E.  0.  COOK  BOOK 

hard  boiled  eggs,  i  cup  boiled  rice.  Melt  butter  in  frying 
pan,  add  dried  beef  pulled  into  small  pieces.  Cook  until 
edges  frizzle  up.  Sift  flour  over  meat  and  mix  thoroughly 
with  melted  butter.  Add  milk  slowly,  stirring  constantly. 
Add  grated  cheese,  then  the  chopped  whites  of  the  eggs  and 
pour  the  whole  thing  over  the  hot  boiled  rice  arranged  on  a 
platter.  Sprinkle  the  yolks  run  through  a  ricer  over  the 
top  and  serve.  Mrs.  Fred  Baumer. 

MEAT  AND  MACARONI 

Chop  an  onion  very  fine  and  brown  in  pan  in  a  little  fat. 
Sear  and  brown  2  cups  of  chopped  meat  in  the  hot  fat, 
seasoning  with  salt  and  pepper.  Line  a  greased  dish  with 
macaroni  and  fill  the  center  with  meat.  Pour  ov^er  the 
meat  2  cups  of  stewed  tomatoes  and  bake  i  hour  in  moderate 
oven.     Cooked  meat  may  be  used  instead  of  fresh  if  desired. 

Mrs.  Fred  Baumer. 

MEAT  WITH  MACARONI 

To  J  gallon  boiling  salted  water,  add  ^  package  of 
macaroni  broken  into  small  pieces  and  boil  until  tender. 
Drain  through  colander  and  pour  cold  water  over  to  blanch. 
To  I  pint  cooked  tomatoes  add  5  spice  cloves,  2  or  3  cloves 
of  garlic,  and  cook  together  about  10  minutes  and  run 
through  sieve.  Take  f  pound  of  steak,  chop  fine  and  fry  in 
suet.  Add  the  meat  and  fat  in  which  it  was  fried  and  the 
tomatoes  to  the  macaroni  and  simmer  all  together  10  min- 
utes. Put  on  platter,  grate  cheese  over  the  top,  set  in  oven 
until  cheese  melts  and  just  before  serving  cover  top  with 
buttered  croutons.  Mrs.  G.  B.  Rice. 

HUNGARIAN  GOULASH 

2  Pounds  of  veal,  or  i  pound  veal  and  i  pound  lean  pork, 
2  large  white  onions,  ^  cup  of  cream  or  rich  milk,  i  table- 
spoon of  salt,  2  tablespoons  of  paprika  (also  known  as 
Hungarian  sweet  pepper).  Take  2  tablespoons  of  lard  in  a 
kettle,  let  heat,  add  the  minced  onions  and  simmer  to  a  light 
brown,  add  meat  cut  in  2-inch  pieces  and  salt,  cook  slowly 


MEATS  45 

I  hour,  add  pepper  and  cook  |  hour.     Just  before  serving 
remove  from  fire,  add  cream  and  cook  five  minutes. 

Mrs.  Georgia  Farley,  St.  Louis,  Mo. 

HUNGARIAN  GOULASH 

Cut  round  steak  in  small  pieces,  season  and  fry  in  hot 
grease,  add  i  pint  of  boiling  water  and  cook  slowly  i  hour. 
Add  I  cup  of  tomato  catsup  and  cook  \  hour. 

Mrs.  C.  a.  Taylor. 

PRESSED  BEEF 

Boil  together  3  pounds  of  beef  neck,  3  small  onions,  salt 
and  pepper  to  season,  until  meat  is  tender.  Run  through 
meat  chopper.  Add  enough  broth  to  moisten  well.  Place 
a  layer  of  meat  then  one  of  pimento  in  granite  or  earthen- 
ware pan  or  jar  and  press  24  hours. 

Mrs.  D.  a.  Lehman. 

BROWNED  HASH 

Use  any  left-over  beef  you  may  have  and  mashed  baked 
or  boiled  potatoes.     Put  both  meat  and  potatoes  through- 
food  chopper,  with  a  small  amount  of  onion.     Cut  bacon  in 
small  pieces  and  fry,  then  add  meat  and  potatoes  and  brown 
on  both  sides.  Ruby  Rice. 

TWENTIETH  CENTURY  HASH 

-  Six  baked  potatoes.  Remove  potato  from  top,  leaving 
rest  of  skin  unbroken.  Season  with  i  tablespoon  cream,  i 
teaspoon  salt,  |  teaspoon  pepper  and  beat  up  with  fork. 
Add  I  cup  any  kind  of  well  seasoned  chopped  beef  moistened 
with  gravy,  stock  or  Worcestershire  sauce.  Fill  skins  with 
mixture,  place  piece  of  butter  on  top  and  reheat  in  oven. 
Cheese  may  be  substituted  for  meat. 

CHILI 

Put  lard  the  size  of  an  egg  in  pot  or  deep  skillet.  Melt 
and  fry  i  large  onion  sliced,  until  brown.  Add  i  pound  of 
ground  round  steak  and  stir  until  seared.  Add  salt,  black 
pepper  and  chili  pepper  to  taste,  i  Pint  of  boiling  water, 
I  pint  of  tomatoes,  2  medium  sized  potatoes  diced  or  a  cup 


46  P.  E.  0.  COOK  BOOK 

of  chili  beans  soaked  until  tender.     Cook  slowly  45  minutes 
and  thicken  with  flour.  Mrs.  C.  E.  Combe; 

MEXICAN  CHILI 

I  Cup  macaroni  cooked  in  |  gallon  of  boiling  salted 
water.  Cook  uncovered.  Slice  i  medium  sized  onion  into 
1  tablespoons  of  meat  drippings  and  fry  to  a  light  yellow. 
Add  I  cup  ground  beef  and  sear,  then  add  2  cups  cooked 
tomatoes,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste  and  cook  5  minutes,  add 
boiled  macaroni,  cook  5  minutes  longer  and  serve  hot. 

Mrs.  Fred  Baumer. 

CHOP  SUEY 

Cut  I  pound  of  veal  and  \  pound  of  lean  pork  into  small 
squares,  add  salt  and  pepper  and  cook  slowly  J  hour.  Do 
not  add  any  water.  Put  in  i  large  onion  sliced,  some  celery 
diced,  and  i  dessert  spoon  of  molasses.  Cook  30  minutes, 
stirring  constantly,  then  dust  a  little  flour  over  the  mixture 
and  add  little  boiling  water.  Add  more  salt  and  pepper  if 
needed,  and  serve  with  boiled  rice. 

Mrs.  Ed.  Heister. 

CHOP  SUEY 

I  Pound  of  steak  chopped  fine  and  browned  in  hot  drip- 
pings; add  2  cups  of  tomatoes,  3  onions  and  i  bunch  of 
celery  chopped  and  cook  20  minutes,  x^dd  i  pint  kidney 
beans  and  cook  15  minutes.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper 
and  serve  at  once.  Mrs.  Orval  Ferrell. 

CHOP  SUEY  AS  THE  CHINESE  MAKE  IT 

I  Pound  of  lean  cooked  pork  and  i  stalk  of  celery  cut  in 
dice  shape;  i  cup  of  Chinese  dried  mushrooms  cut  in  small 
pieces  after  being  soaked  in  water;  2  large  onions  cut  in 
strips,  Chinese  sauce.  Take  an  iron  pot,  Dutch  oven  pre- 
ferred, have  a  hot  fire,  and  put  into  it  i  tablespoon  of  lard, 
then  add  pork  and  steam  15  minutes,  add  the  celery  and 
onions  and  steam  4  or  5  minutes,  then  put  enough  water  to 
cover  and  let  steam  well;  add  the  mushrooms,  white  pepper 
and  salt,  and  2  tablespoons  of  Chinese  sauce  and  stir  well; 


MEATS 47 

keep  the  lid  on  and  steam  lo  minutes  longer.  (Chinese 
sauce  may  be  bought  at  Chinese  stores.)  Serve  the  chop 
suey  with  rice  cooked  as  follows;  Put  i  cup  of  whole  rice 
into  I J  gallons  of  boiling  salted  water  and  boil  20  minutes. 
Pour  into  colander  and  drain.     Dry  in  oven  for  10  minutes. 

G.  D. 
SCRAPPLE 
I  Pork  shank  and  i  beef  soup  bone.  Cover  with  cold 
water  and  cook  until  meat  falls  from  bones.  Remove  bones 
and  meat,  strain  liquid  and  measure.  To  2  quarts  of  liquid 
add  I  tablespoon  of  salt  and  i  rounding  quart  of  meal  and 
cook  same  as  mush.  If  meal  is  first  moistened  with  cold 
water  it  will  not  lump  when  put  into  the  hot  liquid.  When 
done  turn  into  molds.  When  cold  slice,  roll  in  flour  and 
fry.     This  mush  is  delicious  cooked  in  the  fireless  cooker. 

Mrs.  C.  D.  Stilwell. 

PONHOSS 

Cook  a  leg  soup  bone  weighing  3  pounds  in  2  quarts  of 
water,  simmering  until  done.  Remove  meat  from  bone  and 
grind  fine.  Add  the  ground  meat,  2  teaspoons  of  salt,  and 
I  teaspoon  of  pepper  to  the  broth;  bring  to  boil  and  stir  in 
cornmeal  slowly  until  thick  as  mush,  or  cornmeal  and  buck- 
wheat may  be  used  in  the  proportion  of  two  cups  cornmeal 
to  one  of  buckwheat.  Stir  until  well  cooked.  Pour  into 
molds  and  when  cold  slice  thin  and  fry  until  nicely  browned. 
A  splendid  breakfast  dish.        Mrs.  Clarence  Bonnell. 

OATMEAL  SCRAPPLE 

I  Pound  of  flank  steak,  salted  and  cooked  until  tender. 
Cool  and  grind.  Cook  one  cup  of  oatmeal  in  broth;  add 
the  ground  steak  and  put  in  pan  to  mold.  When  cold  slice, 
flour  and  fry  a  light  brown.     Delicious. 

Mrs.  O.  M.  Karraker. 

SOPPINS 

Cook  I  large  hen  until  tender.  Remove  meat  from  bone 
and  add  to  broth;  then  add  a  can  of  tomatoes,  i  of  corn,  i 
of  peas,  I  of  butter  beans,  i  pint  of  diced  potatoes,  \  pack- 


48  P.  E.  0.  COOK  BOOK 

age  of  spaghetti,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  a  little  onion  cut 
fine,  and  a  little  red  pepper.  Cook  until  rather  thick. 
Nice  for  moonlight  picnics  served  with  rye  bread  and  butter 
sandwiches,  pickles  and  coffee. 

Mrs.  Leslie  Pickering. 

MUTTON  CHOPS  WITH  PEAS 

Broil  chops  as  usual.  Have  peas  boiled  and  seasoned. 
Heap  the  peas  in  the  center  of  round  chop  plate.  Decorate 
the  chops  with  paper  ruffles  and  arrange  them  symmetrically 
around  the  peas.  Mrs.  LeRoy  Bartlett. 

HARICOT  OF  LAMB 

2  Tablespoons  of  chopped  onion,  2  tablespoons  of  butter 
or  drippings,  salt  and  pepper,  2  cups  of  water,  i^  pounds  of 
mutton  or  lamb,  cooked  lima  beans." '"-Select  lean  meat  and 
cut  it  into  two-inch  pieces.  Fry  the  onions  in  the  butter, 
add  the  mf^n,  season  and  brown.  Cover  with  water,  cook 
imtil  tender  and  serve  in  border  of  lima  beans,  well  cooked 
and  seasoned  with  salt,  butter  and  chopped  parsley. 

Mrs.  LeRoy  Bartlett. 

ROAST  SPRING  LAMB  AND  MINT  SAUCE 

Rub  the  leg  of  lamb  with  salt  water,  and  while  roasting 
baste  frequently  with  the  gravy  and  salted  water.  Cook  15 
minutes  to  the  pound. 

Mint  Sauce:  To  3  tablespoons  of  finely  chopped  young 
mint  leaves,  mixed  with  2  tablespoons  of  powdered  sugar, 
add  6  tablespoons  of  white  vinegar  or  cider,  pouring  it 
slowly  over  the  mint.  In  order  to  extract  the  full  flavor 
of  the  mint  the  sauce  should  be  made  in  advance  of  the 
dinner  hour.  Mrs.  LeRoy  Bartlett. 

ROAST  MUTTON  OR  LAMB 

Place  leg  of  lamb  in  covered  roaster  and  place  in  very  hot 
oven  for  20  minutes.  Reduce  the  heat  and  season  meat  well 
with  salt  and  pepper.  Pour  J  cup  of  vinegar  over  the  meat 
and  add  i  cup  of  water.  Baste  frequently.  Cook  until 
tender  and  a  golden  brown.     Use  liquor  for  gravy,  removing 


MEATS  49 

excess  tat  and  add  a  lump  of  brown  sugar  the  size  of  a  hick- 
ory nut,  Mrs.  Grace  Lane  Raymond,  Sidney,  111. 

ESCALLOPED  MUTTON  OR  PORK 

2  Cups  of  mutton  or  pork,  i  tablespoon  of  minced  onion, 
2  hard  boiled  eggs,  i  cup  of  white  sauce,  buttered  crumbs  to 
cover.  Mix  meat,  white  sauce  and  onion;  cut  up  eggs  and 
add  to  other  ingredients.  Put  in  baking  dish,  cover  with 
crumbs  and  brown  in  oven.  Mrs.  G.  G.  Mugge. 

STUFFED  PORK  TENDERLOIN 

Split  tenderloin  lengthwise  and  fill  with  good  dressing, 
fasten  together  with  toothpicks  and  place  in  a  pan  in  the 
oven,  without  water,  until  very  brown.  Then  add  a  small 
amount  oi  water  and  cook  slowly  until  tender.  Sweet 
potatoes  may  be  used  instead  of  dressing. 

Mrs.  G.  O.  Proffitt,  St.  Louis,  Mo. 

POT  ROAST  OF  PORK  FOR  FOUR 

i^  Pounds  of  compact  meat  is  sufficient  for  four  people  if 
rightly  managed.  Choose  a  roasting  piece,  or  better  still 
chops,  but  do  not  have  separated  into  chops.  First  heat  the 
kettle  slowly  and  try  out  the  fat  from  i  or  2  slices  of  salt 
pork.  Rub  the  meat  all  over  with  flour  seasoned  with  salt 
and  a  bit  of  pepper  and  sear  all  sides  in  the  hot  fat  in  the 
kettle,  allowing  2  minutes  per  side.  Remove  the  seared 
meat  to  a  plate,  and  put  a  chopped  onion  into  the  kettle 
and  fry  it  gently.  Then  add  6  hearts  of  celery,  2  carrots 
sliced  and  a  little  chopped  sweet  pepper.  Put  in  the  meat, 
rinsing  off  the  plate  with  a  tablespoon  of  water.  Baste  the 
meat  often  and  cook  gently  for  i^  hours.  A  little  chopped 
garlic  with  the  onion  is  worth  while. 

Mrs.  Sam  Whoolery,  Bedford,  Ind. 

PORK  CHOP  STEW 

Stew  6  pork  chops  with  i  diced  potato,  i  onion,  i  table- 
spoon of  butter,  a  pinch  of  red  pepper  pod  and  salt  to  taste. 
When  chops  are  tender,  take  i  cup  of  the  broth  and  mix 
with  flour  to  a  soft  dough.     Roll  very  thin,  cut  in  small 


50  P.  E.  0.  COOK  BOOK 

squares,  add  to  the  stew  and  cook  lo  minutes.     Almost  as 
good  as  chicken  stew.  Mrs.  Taylor  Ferguson. 

BAKED  HAM  IN  MILK 

Use  a  slice  of  ham  about  2  inches  thick.  Put  in  a  frying 
pan  and  cover  with  sweet  milk.  Bake  slowly  ij  hours;  30 
minutes  before  ham  is  done,  add  potatoes  cut  in  thin  slices. 

Ruby  Rice. 


HAM  AU  GRATIN 

f  Pound  of  ground  boiled  ham,  2  eggs,  i  J  cups  of  bread 
crumbs,  2  cups  of  milk,  ^  teaspoon  of  white  pepper,  i  table- 
spoon of  butter.  Place  ham  and  crumbs  in  alternate  layers 
in  a  baking  dish,  adding  pepper  in  mixing.  Beat  eggs  light 
and  add  to  the  milk.  Pour  liquid  over  the  ham  and  crumbs. 
Place  butter  in  dots  over  the  top  and  bake  30  minutes  in  a 
quick  oven.  Mrs.  Sam  Whoolery,  Bedford,  Ind. 

BAKED  HAM 

Wash  and  clean  a  medium  sized  ham,  about  18  pounds, 
and  place  in  a  kettle  with  enough  water  to  cover,  add  a 
small  pod  of  pepper,  2  tablespoons  of  sugar  and  parboil  i 
hour.  Remove  from  fire  and  leave  the  ham  in  the  liquid 
over  night.  Next  morning  place  the  ham  in  a  roaster,  skin 
side  down  and  bake  2  hours  or  until  tender,  in  a  moderate 
oven,  basting  often  with  a  gravy  made  by  mixing  flour  and 
a  little  sugar  with  some  of  the  water  in  which  the  ham  was 
boiled.  Mrs.  Taylor  Ferguson. 

FRIED  CHICKEN 
Dress  chicken  12  or  15  hours  before  cooking.  Salt  i 
hour  before  cooking.  Have  fat  piping  hot.  Dry  each  piece 
with  a  cloth,  roll  in  beaten  egg  then  in  flour  and  fry  quickly 
until  browned  on  each  side,  then  slowly  15  minutes,  or  until 
tender.  Mrs.  J.  H.  Berry,  Cottage  Grove,  111. 

ROAST  CHICKEN  FOR  TWO 

Place  i  cup  of  rice  in  pan  with  2  tablespoons  of  butter 
or  oil,  stir  constantly  until  browned,  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste,  add  i  onion  and  i  tomato  minced,  a  pinch  of  chili 


MEATS  51 

pepper,  a  pinch  of  thyme,  a  pinch  of  mace,  J  cup  of  bread 
crumbs.  Bake  with  J  of  spring  chicken.  Baste  with 
butter  in  hot  water. 

Mrs.  J.  C.  B.  Heaton,  New  Burnside,  111. 

ROAST  CHICKEN 

Dress,  clean,  stuff  and  truss  chicken.  Place  on  its  back 
on  a  rack  in  a  dripping  pan.  Rub  entire  surface  with  salt, 
and  spread  breast  and  legs  with  a  little  fat,  or  fat  and  flour 
rubbed  together.  Dredge  bottom  of  pan  with  flour. 
Place  in  hot  oven  and  when  flour  is  browned  reduce  heat, 
then  baste.  Bas4:e  frequently  during  baking.  If  necessary 
add  a  little  boiling  water.  Turn  chicken  that  it  may 
brown  evenly  on  all  sides.  When  breast  meat  is  tender, 
bird  is  sufficiently  cooked. 

CHICKEN  GRAVY 

Pour  off  liquid  in  pan  in  which  chicken  has  been  roasting. 
From  liquid  skim  off  4  tablespoons  of  fat,  return  fat  to  pan 
and  brown  with  4  tablespoons  of  flour,  add  2  cups  of  stock 
in  which  giblets  and  neck  have  been  cooked.  Cook  5 
minutes,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  then  strain.  For 
giblet  gravy  add  the  heart,  gizzard  and  liver,  chopped  fine, 
to  the  above. 

JELLIED  CHICKEN 

Cut  up  a  4  pound  chicken.  Put  in  vessel  with  sliced 
onion  and  steam  slowly  until  meat  falls  from  the  bones. 
When  half  cooked  add  ^  tablespoon  of  salt.  W^hen  done, 
stock  should  measure  2  cups,  allow  to  stand  a  few  minutes 
and  skim  off  fat.  Decorate  mold  (glass  bread  pans  are  fine 
for  this  purpose)  on  bottom  and  sides  with  parsley  and  sliced 
hard  boiled  eggs;  pack  in  meat,  freed  from  skin  and  bones 
and  sh*-edded  fine,  sprinkling  with  salt  and  pepper.  Pour 
on  stock  to  which  has  been  added  i  full  tablespoon  of  gran- 
ulated gelatine,  dissolved  in  a  little  of  the  stock.  Prepare 
the  day  before  using.  Mrs.  A.  C.  Clark. 

JELLIED  CHICKEN 

Boil  a  fowl  until  tender.     Put  it  on  in  cold  water  and 


52  p.  E.  0.  COOK  BOOK 

bring  slowly  to  a  simmer.  Let  cool  in  liquor  and  cut  meat 
from  bones.  Return  skin  and  bones  to  liquor  with  i  onion, 
I  carrot,  i  potato  and  i  bunch  of  celery  and  cook  i  hour. 
Strain  out  vegetables  and  measure  out  3  cups  of  the  broth. 
Season  to  taste  with  salt  and  pepper.  Heat  to  boiling  point 
and  stir  in  ij  ounce  of  gelatine,  that  has  been  soaked  in  cold 
water,  and  stir  until  it  is  dissolved  and  strain.  When  jelly 
begins  to  form,  arrange  chicken  in  mold  and  pour  over  jelly. 
By  adding  hard  boiled  eggs,  stoned  olives  and  nuts  before 
molding  you  have  a  nice  salad.  Bess  Parish. 

PRESSED  CHICKEN* 

Stew  a  large  fowl  in  a  small  amount  of  water  until  the 
meat  falls  from  the  bone.  When  the  cooking  begins,  drop 
in  one  small  slice  of  onion,  a  pinch  of  parsley  and  also  celery 
leaves,  either  green  or  dry,  and  a  small  piece  of  red  pepper, 
tied  in  a  small  bag.  Later  add  salt.  When  meat  has  fallen 
from  bones,  take  it  out.  Then  take  bones  and  break  the 
larger  ones.  Put  them  back  in  the  liquor  and  stew  down 
slowly  to  abovit  \  cup.  Let  stand  until  next  day  when  the 
liquor  will  have  jellied.  Melt  and  strain  off.  Mix  with  the 
meat,  which  has  been  shredded,  and  add  more  salt.  Put  in 
pan  and  place  under  press  until  cold.  If  made  in  this  way 
prepared  gelatine  is  not  needed  and  the  product  is  richer. 

Mrs.  C.  D.  Stilwell. 

CHICKEN  PIE  (Delicious) 

Cook  a  chicken  until  meat  drops  from  the  bones.  Cook 
3  heaping  tablespoons  of  butter  and  3  tablespoons  of  flour 
together  and  add  3  cups  of  stock  and  i  cup  of  milk,  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste  and  pour  over  chicken  in  baking  pan. 
Crust:  Sift  together  2\  cups  of  flour,  2  teaspoons  of  baking 
powder,  i  teaspoon  of  salt.  Into  this  rub  lightly  \  cup  of 
butter,  or  2  tablespoons  of  lard,  and  add  i  egg  beaten  and 
I  cup  of  sweet  milk.  Pour  this  batter  over  chicken  and 
bake  a  rich  golden  brown. 

Mrs.  George  Bowyer,  Carbondale,  111. 


MEA  TS  ^2 

CHICKEN  AND  RICE 

1  Large  chicken  cut  as  for  stew.  Salt  to  taste  and  cook 
slowly  2  hours,  or  until  tender.  Make  a  rich  gravy  of  milk 
and  flour  beaten  to  a  creamy  consistency,  and  added  to 
chicken  broth,  and  cooked  a  few  minutes.  Cook  i|  cups  of 
rice  in  i  quart  of  boiling  salted  water,  in  a  double  boiler,  until 
the  grains  separate  and  are  quite  dry  and  tender.  Place 
chicken  in  center  of  deep  platter,  make  border  of  the  rice, 
pour  gravy  over  it,  garnish  with  parsley  and  serve  at  once. 

Mrs.  Georgia  Farley,  St.  Louis,  Mo. 

CHICKEN  HOLLANDAISE 

2  Cups  of  cold  chicken,  cut  fine,  J  cup  of  butter,  2  table- 
spoons of  lemon  juice,  \  teaspoon  of  paprika  and  salt  to 
taste.  When  thoroughly  blended,  add  \  cup  of  sweet  milk 
and  the  beaten  yolks  of  2  eggs.  Stir  until  it  thickens  and 
serve  with  toast.  Mrs.  W.  V.  Rathbone. 

ESCALLOPED  CHICKEN 

Alternate  layers  of  cold  sliced  chicken  and  rice  or 
macaroni.  Add  white,  brown  or  tomato  sauce,  cover  with 
cracker  crumbs  dotted  with  butter  and  bake.  • 

CHICKEN  SOUFFLE 

I  Cup  of  white  sauce  seasoned  with  parsley,  thyme  and 
onion,  i  Cup  chopped  chicken.  Beat  yolks  of  2  eggs  and 
add  to  mixture  while  hot.  When  cold  fold  in  the  whites  of 
the  2  eggs  beaten  very  stiff,  put  in  buttered  baking  dish  and 
bake  until  brown  in  hot  oven. 

ROAST  TURKEY 

Prepare  the  turkey  the  day  before  roasting.  Your 
dressing  will  be  better  if  you  steam  the  turkey  30  minutes 
and  use  the  water  in  the  dressing,  reserving  at  least  i  quart 
for  gravy.  Fill  crop  and  vent  with  dressing  to  retain  juices 
and  place  in  oven  to  roast,  allowing  20  minutes  to  the  pound, 
longer  if  an  old  bird.  Bake  dressing,  made  as  follows,  in 
separate  pan :  To  3  quarts  of  biscuit,  broken  in  small  pieces, 
add  the  liquor  drained  from  i  quart  of  oysters  and  enough 


54  P-  E.  0.  COOK  BOOK 

of  the  broth  from  the  turkey  to  moisten  well;  3  eggs,  |  cup 
of  butter  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste  (no  sage).  Be  sure 
and  have  dressing  quite  soft.  Cook  i  quart  of  oysters  in  i 
pint  of  milk  seasoned  to  taste  with  salt,  pepper  and  butter. 
Do  not  overcook  oysters.  When  ready  to  serve,  place  a 
layer  of  dressing  and  one  of  oysters  until  dish  is  full,  having 
oysters  on  top,  and  serve  with  gravy  made  from  broth  thick- 
ened with  milk  and  flour  and  cooked  to  consistency  of  cream. 
Chop  giblets  fine  and  add  to  gravy  if  liked. 

Mrs.  W.  G.  Sloan. 

HASENPFEFFER 

Cut  a  rabbit  into  about  7  pieces.  Put  into  a  bowl  and 
cover  with  vinegar.  If  the  vinegar  is  too  strong  add  a  little 
water.  Add  a  rather  large  onion,  sliced,  a  few  bay  leaves 
and  a  few  whole  cloves.  Cover  and  let  stand  24  hours. 
Next  day  take  the  rabbit  out  of  the  vinegar  and  fry  15 
minutes  in  a  little  hot  fat  in  a  granite  kettle.  Then  pour 
the  vinegar  with  the  cloves  and  onion  over  it,  season  with 
salt  and  pepper  and  let  cook  ij  hours.  When  ready  to 
serve  add  8  gingersnaps  which  have  been  dissolved  in  a  little 
water,  eook  a  few  minutes  and  serve. 

Mrs.  Henry  Heister. 

BAKED  RABBIT 

Leave  the  rabbit  whole,  wash  thoroughly,  salt  and  let 
stand  over  night  in  a  cold  place.  When  ready  to  cook  place 
on  back  in  a  roaster,  after  dredging  with  flour  and  pepper. 
Mince  an  onion  the  size  of  an  egg^  very  fine  and  place  over 
rabbit,  a  teaspoon  of  powdered  sage  sprinkled  over  and  J 
cup  of  vinegar  dropped  by  spoonfuls  to  moisten  all  the 
rabbit.  Have  oven  hot,  put  i  pint  of  boiling  water  in  bot- 
tom of  pan  and  cook  uncovered,  basting  every  5  minutes 
with  water  in  the  pan.  When  brown  on  top  turn  the  back 
of  the  rabbit  over  so  it  will  brown  also  and  continue  basting. 
When  brown  and  tender,  disjoint  and  serve  at  once. 

Mrs.  G.  T.  Gaskins. 

In  frying  a  grown  rabbit,  or  squirrel,  you  can  destroy 
some  of  the  ''wild"  flavor  by  cooking  10  or  15  minutes  in 


MEATS  ^s 

boiling  water.     Then  roll  in  flour  and  fry  as  usual  in  plenty 
of  hot  fat. 

STUFFED  HEART 

Wash  the  heart  thoroughly  inside  and  out,  stuff  with  the 
following  mixture  and  sew  up  the  opening:  i  cup  broken 
bread  dipped  in  fat  and  browned  in  the  oven,  i  chopped 
onion,  and  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Cover  the  heart  with 
water  and  simmer  until  tender  or  boil  lo  minutes  and  set  in 
the  fireless  cooker  for  6  or  8  hours.  Remove  from  the  water 
about  I  hour  before  serving.  Dredge  with  flour,  pepper 
and  salt,  or  sprinkle  with  crumbs  and  bake  until  brown. — 
U.  S.  Department  of  Agriculture — Farmers'  Bulletin  391. 

BOILED  TONGUE 

Clean  and  salt  tongue.  Boil  until  tender,  take  out,  drop 
in  cold  water  and  peel.  Serve  cold  sliced  or  cut  in  cubes, 
mix  with  peppers,  celery,  pickles  and  mayonnaise  for  salad. 
The  flavor  may  be  varied  by  adding  i  bay  leaf,  i  onion,  i 
stalk  of  celery,  i  clove  and  i  carrot  to  the  water  in  which 
tong^ue  is  cooked.  Mrs  G.  T.  Gaskins 


56  P.  E.  0.  COOK  BOOK 


VEGETABLES 

TIME  TABLE  FOR  COOKING  VEGETABLES 
IN  WATER 

Potatoes '^S-3'^  ^-  Spinach    30-45  ^'^^ 

Carrots 35-45  i^i-  Celery. 20-30  m. 

Turnips    45  rn-  Parsnips 3^-45  ni. 

Beets  (young). . .  .45  m.  Green  Peas    .  .30-45  m. 

Beets  (old) 3-4  hrs.  Lima  Beans. .  .  i  hr.  or  more 

String  Beans 1-3  hrs.  Green  corn.. .  .  12-20  m. 

Cabbage 30-60  m.  Rice    20-4^  m. 

Cauliflower    20-30  m.  Macaroni 20-45  ^'^^ 

Asparagus 20-30  m.  Onions 45-60  m. 

GENERAL  RULES 

Wash  thoroughly,  pare  and  scrape,  if  skins  must  be  re- 
moved. Stand  in  cold  water  until  cooked,  to  keep  them 
fresh  and  to  prevent  them  being  discolored.  Cook  in  boil- 
ing water;  the  water  must  be  kept  at  the  boiling  point. 
Use  I  teaspoon  salt  with  i  quart  water;  the  salt  may  be  put 
into  the  water  when  vegetables  are  partially  cooked.  The 
water  in  which  vegetables  are  cooked  is  called  vegetable 
stock. 

Fresh  green  vegetables  require  less  water  than  others. 

Cabbage,  cauliflower,  onions  and  turnips  should  be 
cooked  uncovered  in  a  large  amount  of  water. 

All  vegetables  must  be  drained  as  soon  as  tender.  Season 
with  salt  and  pepper  and  serve  with  butter  or  sauce. 

Cold  vegetables  may  be  used  for  soup,  salads,  or  may  be 
placed  in  a  baking  dish  with  ^  the  quantity  of  sauce  (2  cups 
vegetables  and  i  cup  sauce)  covered  with  buttered  crumbs 
and  browned  in  a  hot  oven. 

Canned  Vegetables:  Wash  the  can.  Empty  the  con- 
tents from  the  can  as  soon  as  opened,  and  let  the  vegetable 
stand  some  time,  that  it  may  become  reoxygenated.  Beans, 
peas,  asparagus,  etc.,  should  be  drained  and  rinsed  in  cold 
water. 


VEGETABLES  si 

Dried  Vegetables:  Wash  and  soak  in  cold  water 
several  hours  before  cooking. 

—From  Columbia  University^  New  York  City. 
By  Miss  Emma  Wright,  Home  Adviser. 

SAUCES  FOR  VEGETABLES 

WHITE  SAUCE  I. 

2  Tablespoons  butter,  i  tablespoon  flour,  i  cup  milk, 
\  teaspoon  salt,  few  grains  pepper.  Put  butter  in  saucepan, 
stir  until  melted  and  bubbling;  add  flour  mixed  with  season- 
ings and  stir  until  thoroughly  blended,  then  pour  on  grad- 
ually while  stirring  constantly,  the  milk.  Bring  to  the  boil- 
ing point  and  let  boil  2  minutes. 

WHITE  SAUCE  II. 

2  Tablespoons  butter,  2  tablespoons  flour,  i  cup  milk,  J 
teaspoon  salt,  few  grains  pepper.     Mix  as  White  Sauce  I. 

WHITE  SAUCE  III. 

2  Tablespoons  butter,  3  tablespoons  flour,  \  teaspoon 
salt,  I  cup  milk,  few  grains  pepper.  Mix  as  White  Sauce  I. 
This  sauce  is  used  for  cutlets,  croquets  and  as  a  binding 
agent. 

DRAWN  BUTTER  SAUCE 

\  Cup  butter,  3  tablespoons  flour,  ij  cups  hot  water,  | 
teaspoon  salt,  \  teaspoon  pepper.  Melt  \  the  butter,  add 
flour  with  seasonings,  and  pour  on  gradually  the  hot  water. 
Boil  5  minutes  and  add  remaining  butter  in  small  pieces. 

BECHAMEL  SAUCE 

i|  Cups  white  stock,  i  slice  onion,  i  slice  carrot,  bit  of 
bay  leaf,  sprig  of  parsley,  6  peppercorns,  \  cup  butter,  \ 
cup  flour,  I  cup  scalded  milk,  ^  teaspoon  salt,  \  teaspoon  of 
pepper.  Cook  stock  20  minutes  with  onion,  carrot,  bay 
leaf,  parsley  and  peppercorns,  then  strain;  there  should  be 
one  cupful.  Melt  the  butter,  add  flour  and  gradually  hot 
stock  and  milk.     Season  with  salt  and  pepper. 

(5)  f 


p.  E.  0.  COOK  BOOK 


TOMATO  SAUCE  I. 

I  Can  tomatoes  or  if  cups  fresh  stewed  tomatoes,  i  slice 
onion,  3  tablespoons  butter,  3  tablespoons  flour,  J  teaspoon 
salt,  §  teaspoon  pepper.  Cook  onions  with  tomatoes  15 
minutes,  rub  through  a  strainer  and  add  to  the  butter  and 
flour,  cooked  together.  If  tomatoes  are  very  acid  add  a 
few  grains  of  soda.  If  tomatoes  are  to  retain  their  red  color 
it  is  necessary  to  brown  butter  and  flour  together  before 
adding  tomatoes. 

TOMATO  SAUCE  II. 

J  Can  tomatoes,  i  teaspoon  sugar,  8  peppercorns,  bit  of 
bay  leaf,  J  teaspoon  salt,  4  tablespoons  butter,  4  tablespoons 
flour,  I  cup  brown  stock.  Cook  the  tomatoes  20  minutes 
with  sugar,  peppercorns,  bay  leaf  and  salt;  rub  through  a 
strainer  and  add  stock.  Brown  the  butter,  add  flour  and 
when  well  browned,  gradually  add  the  hot  lic^uid. 

FRIED  APPLES 

Slice  unpared  apples  about  J  inch  thick.  Fry  slowly  in 
butter  or  good  drippings.  When  done  sprinkle  with  sugar 
and  serve  very  hot.     Nice  served  with  pork. 

BOILED  ASPARAGUS 

Wash  well  one  bunch  of  asparagus.  Cut  off^  lower  parts 
of  stalks  as  far  down  as  they  will  snap,  retie  in  small  bunches 
and  place  in  saucepan  with  cut  ends  down.  Cook  in  boiling 
salted  water  fifteen  minutes  or  until  done,  leaving  tips  out 
of  water.  Drain,  remove  string  and  spread  with  soft  butter, 
allowing  ij  tablespoons  butter  to  each  bunch  of  asparagus. 
Save  water  in  which  asparagus  is  cooked  for  vegetable  soup. 

ASPARAGUS  IN  WHITE  SAUCE 

Boil  asparagus  cut  in  one-inch  pieces,  drain  and  add  to 
White  Sauce  II,  allowing  i  cup  sauce  to  each  bunch  aspar- 
agus. 

WAYS  TO  SERVE  ASPARAGUS 
I.     Asparagus  on  Toast:    Serve  boiled  asparagus  on 
buttered  or  milk  toast,  or  dip  buttered  toast  lightly  and 


VEGETABLES  59 

quickly  in  the  water  in  which  asparagus  has  been  cooked, 
then  add  asparagus  and  serve  quickly. 

2.  Asparagus  in  Crusts:  Remove  centers  from  small 
rolls  after  tops  have  been  cut  off.  Fry  in  deep  fat,  drain 
and  fill  with  Asparagus  in  White  Sauce. 

3.  Asparagus  in  Crustades  of  Bread:  Cut  stale 
bread  in  two-inch  slices,  and  slices  in  diamonds,  squares  or 
circles.  Remove  centers,  leaving  cases.  Brush  over  with 
melted  butter,  and  brown  in  oven.  Fill  with  Aspiaragus  in 
White  Sauce. 

4.  Asparagus  in  Patties:  Make  the  shells  of  rich 
puff  paste  and  fill  with  Asparagus  in  White  Sauce. 

Mrs.  D.  B.  Harvey. 

ASPARAGUS  WITH  HOLLANDAISE  SAUCE  I. 

If  fresh  asparagus  is  used,  wash,  cut  off  tough  ends,  tie 
in  bunches  so  that  it  will  stand  erect  when  placed  in  boiling 
water.  Keep  the  tips  out  of  the  water  as  it  boils,  for  they 
will  cook  more  quickly  than  the  stems  and  become  too  soft 
to  look  well.  When  tender  remove  -from  water  and  drain 
and  keep  hot  until  served.  If  canned  asparagus  is  used, 
drain  and  cover  with  boiling  water,  drain  and  while  hot 
serve  with  the  following  sauce: 

HoLLANDAiSE  Sauce:  §  Cup  buttcr  (soft),  yolks  of  2 
eggs,  I  tablespoon  vinegar  or  i  tablespoon  lemon  juice,  J 
teaspoon  salt  and  cayenne  to  taste.  Put  about  half  the 
butter,  the  lemon  juice  and  eggs  in  a  saucepan  which  is  in  a 
larger  pan  containing  hot  water.  Stir  constantly  and  as  it 
thickens  add  gradually  the  rest  of  the  butter.  If  it  gets  too 
hot  it  separates,  so  the  water  in  the  under  pan  must  be  kept 
hot  but  under  the  boiling  point.  When  thick  remove  from 
fire,  add  salt  and  cayenne  and  serve  immediately. 

Mrs.  C.  E.  Combe. 

ASPARAGUS  WITH  HOLLANDAISE  SAUCE  II. 

Arrange  hot  asparagus  tips  on  plates  covered  with  several 
leaves  of  lettuce  and  serve  with  this  sauce: 

HoLLANDAiSE  Sauce:  Beat  yolks  of  2  eggs,  add  2  table- 
spoons lemon  juice  or  vinegar  and  \  cup  boiling  water. 


6o  P.  E.  0.  COOK  BOOK 

Stir  over  slow  heat  until  thickened.  Add  i  teaspoon  salt, 
J  teaspoon  paprika  and  |  cup  butter  creamed.  Serve  im- 
mediately. Mrs.  M.  S;  Coleman. 

ASPARAGUS  SHORTCAKE 

2  Cups  flour,  i^  tablespoons  butter,  ^  cup  milk,  i  egg 
1 1  teaspoons  baking  powder,  J  teaspoon  salt.  Mix  as  bis- 
cuit dough,  bake  and  while  warm  split  cake  and  spread  with 
butter  and  pour  over  the  cakes  and  between  them  creamed 
asparagus  made  in  the  following  manner:  3  Cups  milk,  3 
tablespoons  butter,  3  tablespoons  flour,  ij  teaspoons  salt. 
Mix  as  White  Sauce.  Cut  asparagus  in  inch  lengths,  cook 
in  boiling  salted  water  till  tender  and  drain.  Mix  with 
sauce,  pour  over  shortcake  and  serve.  Peas  and  other 
vegetables  may  be  used  in  a  similar  way. 

Mrs.  D.  B.  Harvey. 

DRIED  BEANS 

All  dried  beans  require  the  same  preliminary  treatment, 
no  matter  how  they  are  'to  be  finally  cooked  and  served. 
Look  them  over  carefully,  then  wash  clean.  Soak  them 
over  night  in  plenty  of  cold  water.  In  the  morning  pour 
ojff  the  water  and  put  them  in  a  stewpan  with  cold  water 
enough  to  cover  them  generously.  Let  them  come  to  the 
boiling  point  in  this  water,  then  drain.  Dried  lima  beans, 
kidney  beans,  navy  beans,  etc.,  should  be  treated  in  this 
manner,  then  they  are  ready  to  be  finished  in  any  way 
desired.  Maria  Parloa,  U.  S.  Dept.  of  x'\griculture. 

BAKED  BEANS. 

3  Cups  navy  beans,  i  pound  fresh  pork,  J  cup  molassesj 
2  tablespoons  catsup,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Soak,  scald 
and  drain  the  beans  as  directed  above.  Put  the  beans  in  a 
baking  pan,  add  the  molasses,  catsup,  salt  and  pepper. 
Score  the  pork  on  top  and  bury  in  the  beans.  Add  water 
enough  to  come  to  the  top  of  the  beans  but  not  cover  them. 
Bake  from  six  to  eight  hours,  adding  water  a  little  at  a  time 
if  necessary.     Salt  pork  may  be  used  or  the  catsup  left  out. 


VEGETABLES  6i 


BOSTON  BAKED  BEANS 


The  small  white  pea  bean  is  the  best  for  ''Boston  Baked 
Beans."  Wash  well  one  pound  of  beans  and  soak  over 
night.  In  the  morning  drain  and  put  on  to  cook  well 
covered  with  cold  water.  Let  come  to  a  boil  and  cook  < 
minutes.  Drain  and  put  in  baking  pot.  Add  i  tablespoon 
salt,  small  onion  cut  very  fine,  i  teaspoon  mustard,  j  cup 
good  molasses,  ot-  i  tablespoons  of  brown  sugar,  i  cup 
tomatoes  mashed  fine,  pepper  and  parpika.  Cover  \  pound 
of  salt  pork  with  beans  and  pour  in  boiling  water  to  nearly 
cover  beans.  Do  not  cover  tightly  and  during  the  last  half 
hour  of  cooking  remove  cover  entirely  to  let  beans  brown. 
Bake  eight  hours.  Mrs.  D.  B.  Harvey. 

BEANS  WITH  PORK 

Boil  a  medium  sized  and  rather  lean  pork  roast  with  i 
pint  of  navy  beans  until  tender,  season  with  salt.  Place 
roast  and  beans  in  baking  pan  and  bake  i  hour;  do  not  stir 
while  cooking.     They  will  be  brown  and  crisp. 

DRIED  LIMA  BEANS  SAUTE 

Wash,  soak,  scald  and  drain  as  for  dried  beans.  Cook 
until  beans  are  tender  but  not  broken.  Drain  off  the  water 
and  save  it  for  soup.  For  i  quart  of  beans  put  3  tablespoons 
of  savory  drippings  or  butter  in  a  large  bottomed  saucepan. 
When  the  fat  is  hot  pour  in  the  drained  beans  seasoned  with 
i^  teaspoons  salt  and  \  teaspoon  of  pepper.  Cook  over  a 
hot  fire  for  10  or  15  minutes,  frequently  turning  the  beans 
over  with  a  fork.  Cover  and  let  cook  for  half  an  hour  where 
they  will  not  burn.  If  the  beans  are  liked  moist  add  a  cup 
of  meat  broth,  milk,  or  water  before  putting  them  to  cook 
the  last  half  hour.  Instead  of  the  fat,  lima  beans  may  be 
seasoned  with  White  Sauce  II,  allowing  i  cup  of  sauce  to  i 
quart  of  beans.  Mrs.  D.  B.  Harvey. 

KIDNEY  BEANS 

Kidney  or  other  dried  beans  may  be  cooked  and  seasoned 
as  Lima  Beans,  or  seasoned  with  salt  pork  as  Baked  Beans. 


62  p.  E.  0.  COOK  BOOK 

GREEN  BEANS 

^  Gallon  green  beans  when  prepared,  f  pods  and  J  shelled 
beans,  3  tablespoons  fat,  i  tablespoon  salt,  |  tablespoon 
sugar.  Put  fat  in  aluminum  vessel  with  tight  fitting  lid. 
When  hot  enough  to  fry,  add  beans,  cover  tightly  and  shake 
occasionally.  When  juice  is  cooked  out  of  the  beans,  add 
water  to  cover,  the  salt  and  sugar,  and  cook  briskly.  If 
needed  add  a  little  hot  water  at  a  time  while  cooking. 
Beans  should  cook  down  until  only  a  small  amount  of  gravy 
is  left,  when  they  are  done.  Mrs.  J.  H.  Berry. 

GREEN  BEANS 

String  and  break  up  beans,  shelling  those  that  are  large 
enough.  Cover  with  water,  season  with  salt  and  fat  bacon 
or  fried  meat  grease.  Cook  slowly  3  hours.  The  water 
should  all  be  cooked  out  when  done.  The  proportion  is 
about  I  pound  of  medium  bacon  to  a  gallon  of  beans. 

Mrs.  C.  a.  Taylor. 

WHITE  WAX  BEANS 

The  white  wax  bean  has  a  light  yellow  pod  and  is  milder 
in  flavor  than  the  green  string  bean.  Wash,  break  in  i-inch 
pieces  and  cook  in  boiling  salted  water  until  tender,  allowing 
2  teaspoons  of  salt  to  i  quart  of  water.  Drain  and  serve 
with  White  Sauce  II  or  with  the  following  sauce: 

Sauce:  2  Tablespoons  bacon  drippings,  2  tablespoons 
flour,  2  tablespoons  scraped  onion,  2  teaspoons  salt,  i  cup 
milk,  dash  of  white  pepper.  Heat  drippings,  add  flour  and 
onion  and  mix  well.  Add  milk  slowly,  stirring  constantly, 
add  salt  and  pepper  and  cook  3  minutes. 

Mrs.  D.  B.  Harvey. 

STRING  BEANS 

Put  3  or  4  tablespoons  of  bacon  fryings  and  a  sliced 
medium  sized  onion  in  bottom  of  kettle  and  fry  until  about 
half  done.  Put  in  beans  and  water  enough  to  cover.  Boil 
until  tender,  using  i  quart  of  green  beans. 

BUTTER  BEANS 

It  is  best  to  buy  butter  beans  in  the  pod  and  shell  them 


VEGETABLES  63 

just  before  using,  as  they  deteriorate  very  quickly.  Rinse 
in  cold  water,  put  in  saucepan,  cover  with  boiling  water  and 
boil  until  tender,  from  26  to  30  minutes.  When  tender 
there  should  be  little  water  left.  Add  i  teaspoon  salt  to 
each  quart  of  beans,  a  pinch  of  pepper,  and  i  tablespoon  of 
butter;  shake  the  saucepan  (do  not  stir,  as  that  breaks  the 
bean)  and  pour  into  tureen. 

Butter  beans  may  be  served  with  White  Sauce  II  and  i 
tablespoon  finely  cut  parsley  or  celery  tops. 

Mrs.  D.  B.  Harvey. 

BEANS  AND  TOMATOES 

Boil  green  beans  with  bacon  and  season  with  salt.  Cook 
beans  very  low.  Have  ready  tomatoes  prepared  in  this 
manner:  Cook  chopped  onion  in  bacon  drippings  or  oil  until 
light  brown,  add  i  can  tomatoes,  season  with  salt,  pepper, 
paprika,  W^orcestershire  sauce,  pinch  soda,  sugar  and  i 
tablespoon  vinegar.  Cook  until  done,  add  to  beans  and 
cook  low.  Bess  S.  Parish. 

BEETS 

Wash  beets,  beinp  careful  not  to  break  the  skins.  Cover 
generously  with  boilmg  water  and  cook  till  tender.  Young 
beets  will  cook  in  i  hour,  older  ones  from  2  to  4  hours.  When 
tender  drop  into  cold  water  and  rub  off  the  skins.  Slice 
beets  and  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  butter.  Serve  at 
once. 

SUGARED  BEETS 

4  Good-sized  beets,  3  tablespoons  butter,  ij  tablespoons 
sugar,  I  teaspoon  salt.  Boil  beets  tender  and  slice.  Add 
butter,  sugar  and  salt.     Reheat  and  serve. 

Mrs.  D.  B.  Harvey. 

BEETS,  SOUR  SAUCE 

W^ash  12  small  beets,  cook  in  boiling  salted  water  until 
soft,  remove  skins  and  cut  beets  in  slices,  cubes,  or  fancy 
shapes.     Serve  with  either  of  the  following  sauces: 

Sauce:  2  Tablespoons  butter,  add  2  tablespoons  flour, 
I  cup  hot  water,  stirring  constantly  until  thick.     Add  J  cup 


64  P.  E.  O.  COOK  BOOK 

each  of  vinegar  and  cream,  i   teaspoon  sugar,  ^  teaspoon 
salt,  and  a  few  grains  pepper. 

Sauce:  2  Tablespoons  butter,  ^  cup  sugar,  ^  tablespoon 
cornstarch,  |  cup  vinegar,  let  boil  5  minutes.  Pour  over 
beets  and  let  stand  on  back  of  range  ^  hour. 

BEET  GREENS 

Beets  are  usually  thickly  sowed,  and  as  the  young  plants 
begin  to  grow  they  must  be  thinned  out.  These  plants 
make  delicious  greens,  and  even  the  tops  of  ordinary  market 
beets  are  good  if  properly  prepared.  Examine  the  leaves 
carefully  to  be  sure  there  are  no  insects  on  them,  wash 
thoroughly  in  several  waters  and  put  over  the  fire  in  a  large 
kettle  ot  boiling  water.  Add  a  teaspoon  of  salt  for  every 
two  quarts  of  greens;  boil  rapidly  about  30  minutes  or  until 
tender,  drain  off  the  water,  chop  well  and  season  with  butter 
and  salt.  These  may  also  be  seasoned  with  bacon  drippings 
or  salt  pork. 

BRUSSELS  SPROUTS 

Blanch  brussels  sprouts  in  the  following  manner:  Re- 
move the  wilted  or  yellow  leaves  from  the  little  heads,  cut 
the  stalk  close  to  the  head  and  soak  in  cold  salted  water  for 
an  hour  or  more.  Drain  well  and  put  into  boiling  salted 
water,  allowing  i  teaspoon  of  salt  to  2  quarts  of  water.  Boil 
rapidly  for  15  minutes,  depending  on  the  size  of  the  sprouts. 
Drain  in  colander  and  pour  cold  water  over  the  heads. 
They  are  now  ready  to  season.  They  may  be  served  with 
Bechamel,  Hollandaise,  or  White  Sauce  II,  using  i  cup  of 
sauce  to  i  pint  of  sprouts.  * 

BRUSSELS  SPROUTS  SAUTE 

I  quart  Brussels  sprouts,  3  tablespoons  butter,  J  tea- 
spoon salt,  J  teaspoon  pepper.  Blanch  the  sprouts  and 
drain  well.  Put  them  in  a  broad  bottomed  saucepan  with 
the  butter  and  other  seasonings.  Place  over  the  fire  and 
shake  frequently.     Cook  five  minutes  and  serve  hot. 

ESCALLOPED  BRUSSELS  SPROUTS 

1 1  cups  celery  cut  in  pieces,  3  tablespoons  butter,  3 
tablespoons  flour,  i  J  cups  scalded  milk.    Blanch  the  sprouts, 


VEGETABLES  6  s 


cook  soft  and  drain.  Melt  the  butter,  add  the  celery,  cook 
2  minutes,  add  the  flour,  and  pour  on  gradually  the  scalded 
milk,  stirring  constantly  until  thick.  Add  sprouts  and  turn 
the  mixture  into  a  baking  dish,  cover  with  buttered  crumbs 
and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  until  brown. 

Mrs.  D.  B.  Harvey. 

CABBAGE 

Cabbage  is  one  of  our  most  useful  vegetables,  being 
available  during  the  late  fall,  winter  and  spring  months 
when  other  green  vegetables  are  dif^cult  to  procure.  Be- 
cause of  a  relatively  large  amount  of  sulphur  which  cabbage 
contains,  it  is  apt  to  be  indigestible  and  cause  flatulence 
when  it  is  improperly  cooked.  The  quickest  and  simplest 
methods  of  cooking  cabbage  are  the  best.  The  essentials 
for  the  proper  cooking  of  this  vegetable  are  plenty  of  boiling 
water,  a  hot  fire  to  keep  the  water  boiling  all  the  time,  and 
thorough  ventilation,  that  the  strong-smelling  gases,  liber- 
ated by  the  high  temperature  may  be  carried  off  in  the 
steam. 

Young  cabbage  will  cook  in  25  or  30  minutes;  late  in  the 
winter  it  may  require  45  minutes.  The  vegetable  when 
done  should  be  crisp  and  tender,  any  green  portion  should 
retain  the  color,  and  the  white  portion  should  be  white  and 
not  yellow  or  brown.  Overcooked  cabbage  or  cauliflower 
is  more  or  less  yellow,  has  a  strong  flavor,  and  is  very  inferior 
to  the  same  dish  properly  cooked.  In  addition,  overcooking 
is  a  cause  of  digestive  disturbances,  as  well  as  making  a  very 
unpalatable  dish. — U.  S.  Dept.  of  Agriculture,  Maria 
Parola. 

TO  BOIL  CABBAGE 

Cut  a  small  head  of  cabbage  into  four  parts,  cutting  down 
through  the  stock.  Soak  for  half  an  hour  in  a  pan  of  cold 
water  to  which  has  been  added  a  tablespoon  of  salt;  this  is 
to  draw  out  any  insects  that  may  be  hidden  in  the  leaves. 
Take  from  the  water  and  cut  into  slices.  Have  a  large  stew- 
pan,  half  full  of  boiling  water;  put  in  the  cabbage,  pushing 
it  under  the  water  with  a  spoon.     Boil  ten  minutes,  drain. 


66  P.  E.  0.  COOK  BOOK 

put  on  to  co^xK  again  in  boiling  water.  Add  one  tablespoon 
of  salt  and  cook  from  fifteen  to  thirty-five  minutes,  depend- 
ing upon  the  age  of  the  cabbage.  Turn  into  a  colander  and 
drain  for  about  2  minutes.  Put  into  a  chopping  bowl  and 
mince.  Season  with  butter,  pepper  and  more  salt  if  it 
requires  it.  Allow  a  tablespoon  of  butter  to  a  generous 
pint  of  the  cooked  vegetable.  Cabbage  cooked  in  this 
manner  will  be  of  delicate  flavor  and  may  be  generally  eaten 
without  distress.  Have  the  kitchen  windows  open  at  the 
top  while  the  cabbage  is  boiling  and  there  will  be  little,  if 
any,  odor  of  cabbage  in  the  house. 

CREAMED  CABBAGE 

I  Pint  cabbage  cooked  as  directed  above  chopped 
rather  fine.  Season  with  salt  if  necessary,  pepper  and  i 
cup  of  White  Sauce  II.  Mix  all  together  and  simmer  5 
minutes. 

CABBAGE  COOKED  WITH  PORK 

For  a  small  head  of  cabbage  use  about  \  pound  of  mixed 
salt  pork.  Boil  the  pork  gently  for  three  or  four  hours. 
Prepare  the  cabbage  as  for  plain  boiled  cabbage.  Drain 
well  and  put  on  to  boil  with  the  pork.  Boil  rapidly  for  25 
to  45  minutes.  Serve  the  pork  with  the  cabbage.  Ham  or 
corned  beef  may  be  substituted  for  the  pork. 

CABBAGE  WITH  SAUSAGE 

6  Sausages,  i  quart  boiled  minced  cabbage,  J  teaspoon 
pepper,  salt  if  necessary.  Fry  the  sausages  crisp  and  brown. 
Take  from  the  frying  pan  and  pour  off  all  but  3  tablespoons 
of  the  fat.  Put  the  minced  cabbage  in  the  frying  pan  and 
cook  6  minutes.  Arrange  in  a  hot  dish  and  garnish  with 
the  sausages.     Serve  mashed  potatoes  with  this  dish. 

PUREE  OF  CABBAGE  AND  POTATOES 

I  Pint  boiled  finely-minced  cabbage,  6  medium  sized 
potatoes,  2  tablespoons  butter  or  savory  drippings,  2  tea- 
spoons salt,  I  teaspoon  pepper,  J  pint  hot  milk.  Peel  po- 
tatoes   and    put    them   in    a  stewpan   with  boiling  water 


VEGETABLES  61 


enough  to  cover  them.  Cook  just  30  minutes.  Pour  off 
water  and  mash  fine  and  light.  Beat  .  in  the  hot  milk, 
seasoning  and  cabbage.     Cook  about  5  minutes  longer. 

ESCALLOPED  CABBAGE 

Cut  ^  boiled  cabbage  in  pieces;  put  one  layer  in  buttered 
baking  dish,  sprinkle  with  salt,  pepper  and  bits  of  butter, 
then  cracker  crumbs.  Add  another  layer  with  cracker 
crumbs  and  butter  on  top.  Moisten  with  milk,  put  in  the 
oven  until  brown  on  top. 

GERMAN  SOUR  CABBAGE 

Soak  cabbage  in  cold  water.  Slice  and  put  in  stewpan 
of  boiling  water.  Boil  briskly  10  minutes  and  then  drain. 
Put  back  in  pan  with  2  tablespoons  butter,  ^  teaspoon  salt,  , 
I  tablespoon  finely  chopped  onion,  few  gratings  of  nutmeg, 
and  few  grains  cayenne;  add  i  cup  boiling  water  and  cook 
until  tender,  then  add  2  tablespoons  vinegar  and  J  table- 
spoon sugar,  letting  it  cook  low. 

COLD  SLAW 

Select  a  small  heavy  cabbage,  take  off  outside  leaves,  and 
cut  in  half.  With  a  sharp  knife  slice  very  thinly.  Soak  in 
cold  water  until  crisp,  drain  and  dry  between  towels,  and 
mix  with  sour  cream  dressing. 

Sour  Cream  Dressing:  ^  pint  sour  cream,  2  table- 
spoons lemon  juice,  2  tablespoons  vinegar,  i  tablespoon 
sugar,  I  teaspoon  salt,  |  teaspoon  pepper,  i  teaspoon  mixed 
mustard.  Beat  the  cream  with  egg  beater  until  smooth, 
thick  and  light.  Mix  the  other  ingredients  together  and 
gradually  add  to  the  cream,  beating  all  the  while. 

Mrs.  D.  B.  Harvey. 

CABBAGE  IN  SALAD 
Cabbage  should  be  served  often  in  salads  uncooked.     It 
is  excellent  either  alone  or  combined  with  other  vegetables. 

HOT  SLAW 

Slice  cabbage  as  for  cold  slaw,  using  J  cabbage.  Heat  in 
a  dressing  made  of  yolks  of  two  eggs  slightly  beaten,  j  cup 


68  P.  E.  0.  COOK  BOOK 

cold  water,  i  tablespoon  butter,  \  cup  hot  vinegar,  and  J 
teaspoon  salt,  stirred  over  hot  water  until  thickened. 

CABBAGE  AU  GRATIN 

Cook  cabbage  as  for  plain  boiled  cabbage.  Arrange  in  a 
buttered  baking  dish.  Pour  over  the  following  sauce, 
sprinkle  with  cracker  crumbs  and  bake  until  crumbs  are 
brown. 

Sauce:  Melt  2  tablespoons  butter,  add  2  tablespoons 
flour,  ^  teaspoon  salt,  pepper  to  taste.  Stir  until  frothy, 
then  add  i  cup  milk,  stirring  constantly  until  thick,  then 
add  I  cup  grated  cheese.     Cook  until  cheese  is  melted. 

Mrs.  D.  a.  Lehman. 

VIRGINIA  CABBAGE 

Use  a  pointed  head  of  cabbage.  Pull  leaves  apart  but 
do  not  cut  from  stalk  at  the  end.  Remove  stalk  from  the 
center.  Mix  ground  ham  or  other  cold  meats  with  raw 
eggs,  season  with  salt,  pepper,  paprika,  and  Worcestershire 
sauce.  Place  the  mixture  in  the  center  of  the  cabbage,  put 
the  leaves  back  in  place.  Put  in  muslin  bag  and  boil  for  i 
hour.     Serve  with  White  Sauce.  Bess  S.  Parish. 

BAKED  CABBAGE  WITH  TOMATOES 

Prepare  as  for  Boiled  Cabbage  and  cook  with  the  cabbage 
I  large  green  pepper  cut  rather  fine.  Boil  i^o  minutes  and 
drain.  Place  cabbage  and  pepper  in  buttered  baking  dish. 
Season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  cover  well- with  Tomato 
Sauce.  Lift  cabbage  with  a  fork  to  be  sure  that  the  sauce 
is  well  mixed  with  the  cabbage.  Cover  top  with  buttered 
bread  crumbs  and  brown  in  oven.     Mrs.  D.  B.  Harvey. 

STUFFED  CABBAGE 

I  Cabbage,  2  ounces  fat  salt  pork  and  2.  ounces  tender 
beef,  chopped  fine,  2  tablespoons  butter,  2  egg  yolks,  i  tea- 
spoon salt,  I  teaspoon  parsley,  i  teaspoon  minced  onion,  few 
grains  cayenne,  i  French  roll.  Soak  cabbage  i  hour  in  cold 
salted  water.  Cook  in  boiling  water  until  thoroughly 
wilted,  about  15  minutes.     Drain  and  cool;   unfold  leaf  by 


VEGETABLES  69 

leaf,  until  the  heart  is  reached.  Remove  the  center  and 
chop  the  tender  leaves  removed.  Soak  the  roll  in  milk  and 
•press  dry.  Beat  the  egg  and  bread  together,  add  the 
creamed  butter  and  mix  with  the  meat,  chopped  cabbage 
and  seasoning.  Form  into  a  ball  and  place  in  the  cabbage 
head.  Refold  the  leaves  and  bake  three  to  four  hours, 
basting  with  butter  and  water.  Serve  on  a  round  hot 
platter  with  the  gravy  from  the  pan. 

CABBAGE  ROLLS 

Cabbage  leaves  may  be  stuffed  with  boiled  rice  or  meat 
mixture,  roll  and  tie.  Boil  until  tender  and  serve  with 
Tomato  Sauce. 

SAUER  KRAUT 

The  outside  leaves  of  cabbage  should  be  removed,  the 
core  cut  crosswise  several  times  and  shredded  very  finely 
with  the  rest  of  the  cabbage.  Either  summer  grown  or  fall 
cabbage  may  be  used.  Immediately  pack  into  a  barrel, 
keg  or  tub,  which  is  perfectly  clean,  or  into  an  earthenware 
crock  holding  four  or  five  gallons.  The  smaller  containers 
are  recommended  for  household  use.  If  a  wooden  container 
is  used  line  bottom  and  sides  with  large  outer  leaves  of 
cabbage  as  it  is  being  filled.  While  packing  distribute  salt 
as  uniformly  as  possible,  using  i  pound  of  salt  to  40  pounds 
of  cabbage.  Sprinkle  a  little  salt  in  the  container  and  put 
in  a  layer  of  three  or  four  inches  of  shredded  cabbage  and 
pack  down  gently  with  a  wooden  potato  "masher.  Repeat 
with  salt,  cabbage  and  packing  until  the  container  is  full  or 
the  shredded  cabbage  is  all  used.  Press  the  cabbage  down 
as  tightly  as  possible  and  apply  a  cloth  and  then  a  glazed 
plate  or  a  board  which  will  go  inside  the  container.  If 
using  a  wooden  cover  select  wood  free  from  pitch,  such  as 
basswood.  On  top  of  this  cover  place  stones  or  other 
weights  (using  flint  or  granite  and  avoiding  the  use  of  lime- 
stone or  sandstone.)  These  weights  serve  to  force  the  brine 
about  the  cover. 

Allow  fermentation  to  proceed  for  10  days  or  2  weeks, 
if  in  a  warm  room.     In  the  cellar  or  other  cool  place  3  to  5 


70  P.  E.  0.  COOK  BOOK 

weeks  may  be  required.  Skim  off  the  film  which  forms 
when  fermentation  starts,  and  repeat  this  daily  if  necessary 
to  keep  this  film  from  becoming  scum.  When  gas  bubbles 
cease  to  arise,  if  the  container  is  tapped,  the  fermentation 
is  complete.  If  there  is  a  scum  it  should  be  removed.  As  a 
final  step  pour  melted  paraffine  over  the  brine  until  it  forms 
a  layer  from  i  to  ^  inch  thick  to  prevent  the  formation  of  the 
scum  which  occurs  if  the  weather  is  warm  or  the  storage  place 
is  not  well  cooled.  This  is  not  necessary  unless  the  kraut  is 
to  be  kept  a  long  time.  The  kraut  may  be  used  as  soon  as 
the  bubbles  cease  to  arise.  If  scum  forms  and  remains  the 
kraut  will  spoil.  If  desired  kraut  may  be  canned  as  soon  as 
bubbles  cease  to  rise. — U.  S.  Dept.  of  Agriculture. 

CAULIFLOWER 

This  is  a  most  delicious  vegetable  when  properly  cooked, 
and  vile  when  improperly  cooked,  which  generally  means 
over-cooked.  Remove  all  the  large  green  leaves  and  cut  off 
the  stalk.  Soak  (head  down)  in  a  pan  of  cold  water  to 
which  has  been  added  i  teaspoon  of  salt  to  each  quart  of 
water  and  a  teaspoon  of  vinegar.  Let  soak  an  hour  or  more 
in  order  to  draw  out  the  insects  hidden  in  the  vegetable. 
Rinse,  drain  and  put  on  to  cook  in  a  large  stewpan,  stem 
end  down,  and  cover  well  with  boiling  water.  Cook  gently 
with  the  cover  off  the  pan.  A  large  head  will  require  a  full 
half  hour,  small  heads  from  20  to  25  minutes.  The  cauli- 
flower begins  to  deteriorate  the  minute  it  begins  to  be  over- 
cooked. When  tender  drain,  separate  the  flowerets.  This 
is  ready  for  seasoning. 

CREAMED  CAULIFLOWER 

Prepare  cauliflower  as  above  and  mix  with  White  Sauce 
II,  allowing  i  cup  of  sauce  to  i  pint  of  cauliflower. 

CAULIFLOWER  WITH  HOLLANDAISE 

Prepare  as  for  Creamed  Cauliflower,  using  Hollandaise 
Sauce  instead  of  White  Sauce. 


VEGETABLES ji_ 

CAULIFLOWER  SERVED  WHOLE 

Soak,  wash  and  drain.  Tie  in  thin  cloth  and  cook  whole 
in  salted  water.  Drain  and  serve  whole  with  White  Sauce 
poured  over  it.  Mrs.  Fred  Baumer. 

I  CAULIFLOWER  A  LA  HUNTINGTON 

Prepare  cauliflower  as  for  boiled  cauliflower,  and  cook 
until  soft.  Separate  in  pieces  and  pour  over  the  following 
sauce: 

HuxTiNGTON  Sauce:  Mix  ij  teaspoons  mustard,  li 
teaspoons  salt,  i  teaspoon  powdered  sugar,  and  \  teaspoon 
paprika.  /\dd  yolks  of  3  eggs  slightly  beaten,  \  cup  olive 
oil,  and  ^  cup  vinegar  in  which  \  teaspoonful  finely  chopped 
shallot  has  been  infused  5  minutes.  Cook  over  hot  water 
until  mixture  thickens.  Remove  from  range  and  add  | 
tablespoon  curry  powder,  2  tablespoons  melted  butter,  and 
I  teaspoon  finely  chopped  parsley. — Boston  Cooking  School 
Cook  Book. 

CAULIFLOWER  AU  GRATIN 

Soak  cauliflower  in  salted  water  i  hour.  Drain  and 
cook  whole  in  salted  water  until  tender,  about  25  or  30 
minutes.  Drain  and  separate  and  arrange  in  a  baking  dish. 
Pour  over  the  following  sauce,  sprinkle  with  cracker  crumbs 
and  bake  until  crumbs  are  brown. 

Sauce:  Melt  2  tablespoons  butter,  add  2  tablespoons 
flour,  ^  teaspoon  salt,  pepper  to  taste.  Stir  until  frothy, 
then  add  i  cup  milk,  stirring  constantly  until  boiling,  then 
add  \  cup  grated  cheese.     Cook  until  cheese  is  melted. 

Mrs.  D.  a.  Lehman. 

HOT  CAULIFLOWER  SALAD 

Cook  until  tender  i  head  of  cauliflower.  Drain  from  the 
salted  water,  break  in  pieces  and  marinate  in  the  following 
dressing: 

Dressing:  4  Tablespoons  olive  oil  or  Mazola,  4  table- 
spoons vinegar,  i  teaspoon  sugar,  i  teaspoon  salt,  \  tea- 
spoon paprika.     Set  on  back  of  stove  5  minutes. 

Mrs.  M.  S.  Coleman. 


p.  E.  0.  COOK  BOOK 


'       COOKED  CELERY 

Remove  all  leaves  from  the  stalks,  scrape  off  all  rusted 
spots,  cut  into  inch  pieces  and  put  into  cold  water.  Drain 
and  put  on  to  cook  in  boiling  water.  Boil  rapidly  for  15 
minutes,  having  the  cover  partly  off.  Drain;  put  back  on 
the  stove  with  i  tablespoon  of  butter  and  i  teaspoon  of  salt 
for  each  quart  of  celery.  Cover  and  cook  slowly  for  15 
minutes.  Shake  the  pan  frequently  while  celery  is  cooking. 
Serve  hot. 

CREAMED  CELERY 

Prepare  celery  as  above  and  cook  25  or  30  minutes. 
Drain  and  season  with  White  Sauce  II,  allowing  i  cup  of 
sauce  to  i  pint  of  celery. 

CREAMED  CARROTS 

Wash,  scrape  and  cut  young  carrots  into  ^  inch  cubes. 
Cover  with  boiling  water  and  let  stand  5  minutes.  Drain 
and  cook  in  boiling  salted  water,  to  which  has  been  added  ^ 
tablespoon  butter,  until  soft.  Drain  and  add  i  cup  White 
Sauce  II  to  each  pint  of  cooked  carrots.  Simmer  5  minutes 
and  serve.  Mrs.  D.  B.  Harvev. 

CARROTS,  POULETTE  SAUCE 

Prepare  and  cook  carrots  as  above  and  dress  with  the 
following  sauce: 

Sauce:  3  Tablespoons  butter,  3  tablespoons  flour,  i  cup 
chicken  broth,  and  ^  cup  cream.  Season  to  taste  with  salt 
and  pepper,  and  just  before  serving  add  yolks  of  2  eggs  and 
^  tablespoon  of  lemon  juice.  Mrs.  D.  B.  Harvey. 

GREEN  CORN 

This  most  delicious  of  summer  vegetables  is  frequently 
spoiled  by  over-cooking.  If  the  corn  is  fresh  and  tender, 
as  it  should  be,  15  minutes  is  enough.  If  only  a  few  ears 
are  cooked  so  that  the  water  does  not  stop  boiling,  10  min- 
utes is  sufficient.  Wrap  at  once  in  a  thick  napkin  and  send 
to  the  table  covered,  as  the  skin  toughens  if  allowed  to  dry 
while  hot. 


VEGETABLES  73 

GREEN  CORN  OFF  THE  COB 

Cut  corn  from  the  cob,  being  careful  not  to  cut  too 
deeply.  Scrape  with  the  back  of  knife  to  press  all  the  corn 
from  the  hulls.  Put- in  saucepan  with  salt,  pepper  and  but- 
ter. Add  enough  milk  to  moisten  well  and  cook  from  lo  to 
20  minutes. 

CORN  BALLS 

I  Cup  corn,  2  eggs,  \  cup  milk,  \  cup  flour,  \  teaspoon 
baking  powder,  salt  to  taste.  Butter  the  poacher  cups  and 
fill  f  full  of  the  mixture;  steam  30  minutes.  Serve  with 
roast  beef  or  fried  ham.  Mrs.  D.  B.  Harvey. 

CORN  CUSTARD 

6  Ears  corn,  ij  cups  hot  milk,  \  teaspoon  salt,  ^  teaspoon 
sugar,  I  tablespoon  butter,  \  tablespoon  flour,  2  eggs. 
Melt  the  butter,  mix  well  with  the  flour;  add  the  milk 
gradually,  then  the  seasoning  and  corn,  and  last  of  all  the 
beaten  eggs.  Pour  into  a  buttered  baking  dish  and  bake 
in  a  moderate  oven  for  half  an  hour. 

Mrs.  D.  B.  Harvey. 

CORN  AND  CHEESE  SOUFFLE 

I  Tablespoon  butter,  i  tablespoon  chopped  green  pep- 
per, \  cup  flour,  2  cups  milk,  i  cup  grated  cheese,  i  cup 
corn,  3  eggs,  ^  teaspoon  salt.  Melt  the  butter  and  cook  the 
pepper  thoroughly  in  it;  make  a  sauce  by  adding  the  flour, 
milk  and  cheese;  add  the  corn,  yolks  of  eggs  and  seasoning; 
fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten  whites;  turn  into  a  buttered  baking 
dish  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  30  minutes. 

Mrs.  D.  B.  Harvey. 

ESCALLOPED  CORN 

Corn,  salt,  pepper,  butter  and  cracker  or  bread  crumbs. 
Arrange  in  a  buttered  baking  dish  in  layers  of  corn,  crumbs 
and  seasoning,  having  the  last  layer  of  crumbs.  Bake  until 
brown  on  top. 

CORN  OYSTERS 

I  Pint  oysters,  i  can  corn,  salt,  pepper,  butter,  milk, 
cracker  crumbs.     Butter  a  baking;  dish.     Put  in  a  layer  of 

(6)  ^  ^ 


74  P'  E,  0.  COOK  BOOK 

corn  than  a  layer  of  oysters,  salt,  pepper  and  butter.  Repeat 
until  all  I'ngredients  are  used.  Put  a  layer  of  crumbs  on  top, 
sprinkle  with  bits  of  butter,  and  add  milk  until  nearly 
covered.     Bake  in  a  fairly  hot  oven.     . 

Mrs.  G.  T.  Gaskins. 

SUCCOTASH 

5  Ears  of  corn,  i  pint  green  Lima  beans,  i  tablespoon 
butter,  J  teaspoon  salt,  dash  of  pepper,  i  cup  cream.  Cut 
corn  from  the  cob,  add  to  the  beans  the  last  15  minutes  of 
cooking.  The  mixture  should  be  cooked  nearly  dry.  Add 
butter,  seasoning  and  cream,  and  simmer  10  minutes. 

STUFFED  CUCUMBER 

Cut  cucumbers  in  half  lengthwise,  scoop  out  the  seeds 
and  fill  the  hollow  with  a  mixture  of  cold  chopped  meat, 
about  f  of  a  cup,  J  cup  fine  stale  bread  crumbs,  J  cup  milk, 
2  tablespoons  butter,  white  i  egg,  salt,  few  grains  cayenne,  a 
little  nutmeg.  Lay  in  a  pan  with  enough  butter  to  keep 
from  sticking.  Simmer  till  the  juice  flows  freely,  then  add 
a  little  good  broth,  and  boil  gently  till  very  tender.  Lift  the 
slices  carefully.  Reduce  the  juice  to  just  enough  to  cover, 
and  pour  over  the  cooked  cucumber. 

STUFFED  EGG  PLANT 

I  Egg  plant,  I  cup  fine  bread  crumbs,  2  tablespoons 
chopped  onion,  i  tablespoon  melted  butter,  i  egg  beaten,  i 
saltspoon  salt,  i  saltspoon  pepper,  i  large  can  Underwood 
Deviled  Ham.  Cut  the  egg  plant  into  halves  lengthwise 
without  peeling.  Cook  about  fifteen  minutes.  Remove 
the  pulp.  Chop  and  mix  with  bread  crumbs,  tongue  and 
onion,  melted  butter,  egg  and  seasoning.  Fill  the  halves  of 
the  egg  plant  with  this  mixture,  cover  with  buttered  crumbs 
and  bake  about  25  minutes.  Can  be  baked  in  casserole 
instead  of  halves.  Mrs.  G.  T.  Gaskins. 

BAKED  EGG  PLANT 

Pare,  slice  and  put  inside  of  egg  plant  in  salt  water  and 
boil  till  tender.    Drain  and  mash.     Add  yolk  of  i  egg,  salt. 


VEGETABLES  75 

butter,  I  cup  of  bread  crumbs,  a  little  milk  and  beaten  white 
of  two  eggs.     Bake  45  minutes.  Mrs.  Fred  Baumer. 

FRIED  EGG  PLANT 

Cut  the  vegetable  in  slices  half  an  inch  thick  and  pare. 
Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pile  them  upon  one  another;  put  a 
plate  with  a  weight  on  top.  Let  them  rest  an  hour,  then 
remove  weight  and  plate.  Add  i  tablespoon  water,  ^  table- 
spoon salt,  and  ^  teaspoon  pepper  to  an  egg.  Beat  well. 
Dip  the  slices  of  egg  plant  in  the  egg,  then  in  dried  bread 
crumbs.     Fry  in  deep  fat. 

ESCALLOPED  EGG  PLANT 
Pare  an  egg  plant  and  cut  in  f-inch  cubes.  Cook  in  a 
small  quantity  of  boiling  water  until  soft,  then  drain.  Cook 
two  tablespoons  butter  with  J  onion,  finely  chopped,  until 
yellow,  add  f  tablespoon  finely  chopped  parsley  and  egg 
plant.  Turn  into  a  buttered  baking  dish.  Cover  with 
buttered  crumbs  and  bake  until  crumbs  are  brown. 

ENDIVE  I 

Cut  fine.  Boil  i  potato  and  mash;  mix  while  hot  with 
endiv^e,  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Heat  2  tablespoons 
of  bacon  fryings,  add  2  tablespoons  vinegar  and  pour  over 
the  potato  and  endive. 

Mrs.  Fred  Baumer. 

ENDIVE  II 

Cut  endive  fine.  Slice  i  onion  fine  and  brown  in  2  table- 
spoons bacon  fryings;  add  i  tablespoon  of  flour  but  do  not 
brown.  Add  i  cup  milk  and  cook  until  thick,  stirring  con- 
stantly, then  add  2  tablespoons  vinegar.  Mix  i  hot 
mashed  potato,  and  i  chopped  hard  boiled  egg,  and  the  cut 
endive.     Pour  the  hot  sauce  over  it  and  serve. 

Mrs.  Fred  Baumer. 

GREENS  FOR  IRON 

The  green  leaves  of  spinach  contain  iron  and  vitamines. 
Their  importance  cannot  be  over-emphasized  in  the  diet, 
by  those  who  value  health.     So  kindly  do  most  stomachs 


76  P.  E.  0.  COOK  BOOK 

take  to  them  that  greens  are  among  the  foods  for  invaHds 
and  strained  spinach  water  is  the  first  food  besides  milk 
given  to  tiny  babies. 

Take  care  in  the  cooking.  Unless  your  family  is  trained, 
choose  the  mild-flavored  greens,  such  as  Swiss  Chard. 
Always  cook  the  greens  in  steam  if  you  appreciate  their  food 
value,  or  boil  them  down  until  no  water  need  be  discarded. 
They  should  be  watched  carefully  and  when  tender  should 
be  seasoned  and  eaten  at  once.  The  cook  is  often  the  cause 
for  her  family's  dislike  for  greens.  If  they  cook  on,  they 
develop  a  strong,  disagreeable  flavor  instead  of  the  delicate 
one  they  should  have. 

Don't  fail  to  teach  the  children  to  relish  the  green  leaf 
vegetables,  so  valuable  for  their  health-giving  elements. 

Miss  Wright,  Home  Adviser. 

GREENS 

The  most  common  greens,  both  cultivated  and  wild,  are 
as  follows:  Swiss  chard,  kale,  Chinese  cabbage  leaves,  water 
cress,  endive,  turnip  tops,  spinach,  beet  tops,  dandelion, 
mustard,  pepper  cress,  lamb's  quarter,  sour  dock,  smart 
weed,  purslane,  pokeweed  sprouts,  milkweed. 

SPINACH 

Spinach  should  be  cut  when  young  and  tender.  Care- 
fully pick  over  and  wash  in  several  waters  to  be  sure  that  it 
is  free  from  all  sand.  Put  into  kettle  with  \  cup  boiling 
water,  cover  and  let  steam  for  25  minutes.  Remove  cover 
and  let  cook  down,  turning  often.  Chop  fine  and  reheat 
with  salt,  pepper  and  butter.  Mound  on  a  serving  dish 
and  garnish  with  hard  boiled  eggs. 

SPINACH 

Wash  well,  boil  in  salted  water  until  tender,  drain  and 
chop  fine.  Brown  flour  in  meat  fryings,  add  spinach  and  a 
little  water.     Season  with  salt,  pepper  and  nutmeg. 

Mrs.  Fred  Baumer. 


VEGETABLES  77 

SPINACH  WITH  CREAM 

2  Cups  cooked  spinach,  2  tablespoons  butter,  i  table- 
spoon flour,  I  teaspoon  salt,  ^  teaspoon  pepper,  i  cup 
scalded  cream.  Mince  the  spinach.  Put  the  butter  in  a 
pan  on  the  fire;  when  hot,  add  the  flour  and  stir  until 
smooth,  then  add  the  minced  spinach  and  salt  and  pepper. 
Cook  5  minutes;   then  add  cream,  and  cook  3  minutes  more. 

Mrs.  D.  B.  Harvey. 

SPINACH  WITH  EGGS 

Wash  the  spinach  and  steam  until  tender.  Chop  fine, 
put  over  fire  with  a  large  tablespoon  of  butter,  a  little  sugar, 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Turn  into  a  deep  dish,  cover  with 
dressing  made  with  yolks  of  4  hard  boiled  eggs  rubbed'to  a 
paste  with  a  teaspoon  of  melted  butter,  one  of  cream  and 
lastly  I  tablespoon  of  lemon  juice.  Spread  the  dressing 
over  the  spinach,  garnish  with  the  whites  of  the  eggs. 

SPINACH  LOAF 

Mix  i^  cups  of  cooked  and  chopped  spinach,  i  cup  bread 
crumbs,  i  well  beaten  egg,  ^  cup  grated  cheese,  i  tablespoon 
lemon  juice,  i  teaspoon  salt,  and  |  teaspoon  pepper.  Pour 
into  a  greased  baking  dish  and  steam  over  boiling  water,  or 
bake  in  oven  25  minutes.     Serve  with  Tomato  Sauce  I. 

SWISS  CHARD 

When  tender,  chard  may  be  cooked  like  spinach.  If  the 
midribs  are  large,  strip  the  green  leaves  off  and  cook  like 
spinach,  but  cook  the  ribs  as  asparagus. 

DANDELIONS 

Gather  only  the  freshly  grown  plants;  best  when  the  dew 
is  on  them.  The  whole  plant,  after  thorough  washing,  may 
be  cooked  till  tender,  drained,  chopped  fine,  seasoned  with 
salt,  vinegar  and  a  liberal  amount  of  butter.  Those  who 
think  it  bitter  may  use  half  spinach  or  beet,  or  sorrel,  in 
which  case  the  dandelion  should  be  partly  cooked  before  the 
more  succulent  plant  is  added. 


78  P.  E.  0.  COOK  BOOK 

KALE 

Kale  may  be  cooked  as  spinach,  or  as  cabbage,  or  as 
Cabbage  with  Pork. 

KOHL-RABI 

Kohl-rabi  should  be  used  when  it  has  a  diameter  of  2  or 
3  inches.  As  it  becomes  large  it  becomes  tough  and  fibrous. 
Wash  and  pare  the  vegetable  and  cut  in  ^  inch  cubes.  Put 
into  boiling  salted  water  and  boil,  with  the  cover  partly  off 
the  pan,  until  tender.  This  will  take  about  30  minutes. 
Pour  off  the  water  and  season  with  butter,  salt,  and  pepper. 

Kohl-rabi  may  also  be  served  with  White  Sauce  II. 

KOHL-RABI  AU  GRATIN 

Kohl-rabi  is  delicious  cooked  in  this  way:  Pare,  cut  in 
|-inch  dice  and  cook  till  tender.  Pour  into  a  buttered  bak- 
ing dish,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  pour  over  it  a 
cream  sauce  made  in  the  following  manner:  Melt  2  table- 
spoons of  butter,  add  2  tablespoons  flour,  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste.  Add  i  cup  of  milk  and  cook  until  thick,  stirring  all 
the  time.  Add  j  cup  grated  cheese,  stir  until  melted  and 
pour  sauce  over  kohl-rabi  in  baking  dish.  Melt  i  table- 
spoon butter  in  small  pan,  add  ^  cup  toasted  bread  crumbs, 
stir  until  thoroughly  mixed,  then  place  on  top  of  other 
ingredients,  put  in  the  oven  and  brown. 

Mrs.  D.  B.  Harvey. 

DUTCH  LETTUCE 

W^ash  carefully  2  heads  of  lettuce,  separate  the  leaves  and 
tear  each  leaf  into  about  three  pieces.  Cut  a  quarter  of  a 
pound  of  ham  or  bacon  into  dice  and  fry  until  brown;  while 
hot  add  2  tablespoons  of  vinegar;  beat  one  egg  till  light,  add 
2  tablespoons  of  sour  cream  and  stir  into  the  ham.  Stir 
this  over  the  fire  until  it  thickens  and  pour  it  while  hot  over 
the  lettuce.  Mix  carefully  with  a  fork  and  serve  immediate- 
ly. Mrs.  D.  B.  Harvey. 

TO  KEEP  LETTUCE  FRESH 

Lettuce  is  useid  principally  uncooked,  either  by  itself  or 
in  combination  with  other  food  as  salads.     To  be  palatable 


VEGETABLES  79 

It  must  be  crisp  and  fresh.  The  best  way  to  keep  it  fresh 
is  to  have  a  small  pail  with  a  tight  lid.  Put  lettuce  in  the 
pail,  sprinkle  W'.^^h  cold  water,  put  the  lid  on  tight  and  set 
in  icebox.     It  may  also  be  wrapped  in  paper. 

BOILED  ONIONS 

Put  onions  in  cold  water  and  remove  skins  while  under 
water.  Put  on  to  cook  in  boiling  water;  boil  5  minutes, 
drain  and  again  cover  with  boiling  water  which  has  been 
salted.  If  the  onions  are  very  strong  change  the  water 
twice  while  cooking,  cook  from  45  to  60  minutes.  When 
tender,  drain,  add  a  little  milk,  simmer  5  minutes,  season 
with  salt,  pepper  and  butter. 

CREAMED  ONIONS 

Cook  as  Boiled  Onions,  drain  and  add  White  Sauce  II 
until  covered.     Simmer  5  minutes  and  serve. 

ESCALLOPED  ONIONS 

Cut  Boiled  Onions  in  quarters.  Put  in  a  buttered  bak- 
ing dish,  cover  with  White  Sauce  II,  sprinkle  with  buttered 
crumbs,  and  brown  in  oven.  J  Cup  of  cheese  may  be  added 
to  the  White  Sauce  if  desired.  Mrs.  D.  B.  Harvey. 

STUFFED  ONIONS 

Boil  onions  in  salted  water  whole,  drain  and  make  an 
opening  in  center  with  fork  and  fill  with  little  dices  of  bread 
which  have  been  fried  in  butter  to  a  golden  brown.  Pour 
some  of  the  fried  butter  over  them  and  sprinkle  minced 
parsley  over  top. 

Miss  Lena  May  Sherman,  Chicago,  III. 

FRIED  ONIONS 

Remove  skins  from  onions,  put  on  in  boiling  salted  water, 
cook  for  15  minutes  and  drain.  Put  ij  tablespoons  butter 
in  hot  frying  pan,  add  the  onions  and  fry  until  well  browned, 
stirring  often  to  prevent  sticking.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and 
pepper  i  minute  before  taking  from  the  fire. 


8o  P.  E.  0.  COOK  BOOK 

FRENCH  FRIED  ONIONS 

Peel  onions,  cut  in  j  inch  slices  and  separate  into  rings. 
Dip  in  milk,  then  in  flour  and  fry  in  deep  fat.  Drain  on 
brown  paper  and  sprinkle  with  salt.     Nice  for  garnishing. 

STUFFED  ONIONS 

Parboil  onions  whole  lo  minutes.  Turn  upside  down  to 
cool.  Take  out  part  of  the  center.  Fill  with  equal  parts 
finely  chopped  cooked  meat,  stale  bread  crumbs,  and  the 
finely  chopped  onion  which  was  removed,  seasoned  with 
salt,  pepper,  and  enough  cream  or  melted  butter  mix  well. 
Place  in  buttered  pan,  sprinkle  with  buttered  crumbs  and 
bake  in  moderate  oven  till  onions  are  soft. 

Mrs.  D.  B.  Harvey. 

GREEN  PEPPERS  IN  MEXICAN  STYLE 

Put  your  green  peppers  on  an  iron  plate  and  set  over  the 
fire,  being  careful  not  to  burn;  but  they  must  be  scorched; 
let  them  stand  in  cold  water  for  an  hour  after  the  scorching 
and  the  outer  skin  will  then  peel  off  readily;  split  peppers 
up  the  side  and  remove  the  seeds.  Make  a  batter  of  2  eggs, 
a  teaspoon  of  salt,  a  tablespoon  of  sweet  cream,  and  flour 
enough  to  make  a  batter;  dip  each  pepper  in  the  batter  and 
fry  in  boiling  fat;  they  will  fry  a  nice  golden  brown  and 
should  be  eaten  immediately.  Mrs.  G.  T.  Gaskins. 

STUFFED  GREEN  PEPPERS  WITH  BROWN  SAUCE 

Cut  a  slice  from  the  stem  end  of  each  pepper,  remove  the 
seeds  and  parboil  15  minutes.  Cook  an  onion,  finely  chop- 
ped, in  butter  until  slightly  brown  and  add  4  tablespoons 
chopped  mushrooms  and  the  same  amount  of  lean  ham, 
finely  chopped;  cook  for  i  minute,  then  add  J  cup  of  brown 
sauce  and  3  tablespoons  of  bread  crumbs.  Let  the  mixture 
cool,  sprinkle  the  peppers  with  salt,  and  fill  with  the  mixture; 
cover  with  buttered  bread  crumbs  and  bake  10  minutes. 

Mrs.  G.  T.  Gaskins. 

STUFFED  GREEN  PEPPERS 

Cut  a  slice  from  the  stem  end  of  each  pepper,  remove  the 
seeds  and  parboil   10  minutes.     Place  peppers  upright  in 


VEGETABLES  8i 

baking  pan.  Into  medium  sized  peppers  put  2  teaspoons  of 
uncooked  rice,  salt  and  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  hickory 
nut.  Fill  the  pepper  with  tomatoes  which  have  been  peeled 
and  mashed.  Take  the  slice  from  the  top  of  pepper,  cut  out 
the  stem  and  put  pieces  in  the  pan  around  the  upright 
peppers;  add  some  of  the  mashed  tomato  and  water  enough 
to  come  half  way  up  on  the  peppers.  Bake  45  minutes  in  a 
moderate  oven.  Mrs.  D.  B.  Harvey. 

OTHER  FILLINGS  FOR  PEPPERS 

1.  Soak  in  water  bread  crumbs  sufficient  to  make  i 
pint  when  the  water  is  pressed  out;  mix  with  i  teaspoon 
salt,  pepper  to  taste,  |  teaspoon  finely  pulverized  sage,  | 
teaspoon  minced  parsley,  \  teaspoon  minced  onion,  2  table- 
spoons melted  butter,  i  egg;  Fill  peppers  and  pour  over 
them  I  cup  White  Sauce  II,  thinned  with  i  cup  white  stock. 
Bake  45  to  50  minutes. 

2.  I  Cup  cooked  rice,  2  tablespoons  finely  cut  bacon,  i 
tablespoon  finely  cut  onion,  i  hard-boiled  egg,  i  raw  egg, 

1  teaspoon  salt,  ^teaspoon  paprika.  Put  bacon  in  frying 
pan,  add  onion  and  brown,  add  rice,  the  hard-boiled  egg, 
chopped  fine,  and  heat  through.  Remove  from  the  fire  and 
add  the  well-beaten  raw  egg,  salt  and  paprika.  Mix  well, 
fill  peppers,  dust  top  with  bread  crumbs,  place  in  deep  dish, 
and  bake  in  hot  oven  30  minutes.  Macaroni  may  be  used 
instead  of  rice. 

3.  Tomatoes  stewed  till  tender,  thickened  with  fine 
cracker  crum.bs  and  nicely  seasoned  with  salt,  pepper  and  a 
dash  ot  lemon  juice  make  a  good  filling. 

4.  Peppers  may  be  filled  with  well  seasoned  chopped 
meat,  with  or  without  the  addition  of  bread  crumbs  or 
boiled  rice. 

PIMENTO  ROAST 

3  Canned  pimentos,  \  pound  cream  or  cottage  cheese, 

2  cups  cooked  lima  beans,  bread  crumbs,  butter  and  water. 
Chop  the  first  3  ingredients;  mix  thoroughly  and  add  bread 
crumbs  until   the  mixture  is  stiff  enough   to   form   a  roll. 


82  p.  E.  0.  COOK  BOOK 

Brown  in  the  oven,  basting  occasionally  with  butter  and 
water.  Mrs.  D.  B.  Harvey. 

FRIED  PARSNIPS 

Scrape  and  slice  lengthwise;,  boil  till  tender,  drain  and 
season  with  salt  and  pepper;  dip  first  in  melted  butter,  then 
in  flour  and  dust  with  sugar.  Put  i  tablespoons  of  drippings 
into  a  frying  pan;  when  hot  put  in  the  parsnips  and  fry 
brown.     Serve  with  pork. 

STEWED  PARSNIPS 

Scrape  and  slice  crosswise  about  §  inch  thick;  have  a 
saucepan  ready  with  a  half  pint  of  hot'water  and  a  table- 
spoon of  butter;  add  the  parsnips,  season  with  salt  and 
pepper,  cover  closely,  and  stew  until  the  water  is  cooked 
away,  stirring  occasionally  to  prevent  burning.  When  done 
the  parsnips  will  be  of  a  creamy,  light  brown  color. 

BOILED  PEAS  WITH  BUTTER 

Put  peas  on  to  cook  in  boiling  water.  When  water 
comes  to  a  boil  again,  draw  peas  back  where  the  water  will 
bubble  gently.  Peas  should  always  be  boiled  slowly,  and 
with  the  cover  partially  off  the  pan.  It  is  impossible  to 
give  the  ex:act  time  of  cooking  this  vegetable,  since  so  much 
depends  on  the  maturity  of  the  peas,  the  length  of  time 
they  have  been  picked,  etc.  Young,  tender  peas  will 
generally  cook  in  20  or  30  minutes,  and  the  seasoning  should 
be  added  while  they  are  still  firm  and  crisp.  If  the  peas  are 
cooked  until  the  green  color  is  destroyed  they  are  overdone 
and  their  delicate  flavor  is  spoiled.  Add  i  teaspoon  of  salt 
the  last  15  minutes  of  cooking.  There  should  be  very  little 
water  left.  Add  2  tablespoons  of  butter,  and  if  the  peas 
are  not  the  sweet  kind,  add  i  teaspoon  of  sugar.  Let  sim- 
mer a  little  longer  and  serve. 

CREAMED  PEAS 

Cook  as  for  Boiled  Peas  and  serve  with  White  Sauce  II, 
allowing  i  cup  of  sauce  to  i  pint  of  peas. 


VEGETABLES  83 

GREEN  PEA  SOUFFLE 

I J  Tablespoons  bi?,tter,  ij  tablespoons  flour,  \  teaspoon 
salt,  I  cup  milk,  |  teaspoon  pepper,  3  egg  yolks,  \  teaspoon 
grated  onion  or  i  teaspoon  chopped  mint,  3  egg  whites 
stiflly  beaten,  i  pint  cooked  green  peas  or  i  can.  Make  a 
white  sauce  of  the  first  four  ingredients.  Mash  the  peas 
and  add  with  the  yolks  and  seasoning  to  the  sauce.  Fold  in 
the  egg  whites  and  pour  into  a  greased  baking  dish.  Set  in 
a  pan  of  warm  water  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven  till  firm.  Do 
not  allow  water  in  pan  to  boil.  Mrs.  D.  B.  Harvey. 

PEAS  AND  CARROTS 

Cook  peas  until  tender  in  boiling  salted  water  and  drain. 
Cook  diced  carrots  till  tender,  drain  and  save  water  in  which 
they  are  cooked.  Make  a  sauce  with  2  tablespoons  butter, 
2  tablespoons  flour,  i  cup  of  liquor  in  which  carrots  were 
cooked,  I  tablespoon  vinegar,  i  tablespoon  sugar.  Cook 
until  thick  and  pour  over  carrots  and  peas  mixed. 

Bess  S.  Parish. 

PEAS  IN  TURNIP  SHELLS 

Select  turnips  of  even  size,  peel  and  scoop  out  centers. 
Drop  in  boiling  salted  water  and  cook  until  tender.  Lift 
out  carefully,  drain,  and  fill  with  French  peas.  Pour  over 
peas  a  rich  white  sauce,  garnish  and  serve. 

Mrs.  G.  O.  Proffitt,  St.  Louis,  Mo. 

PEA  TIMBALES 
Drain  and  rinse  one  can  of  peas,  and  rub  through  a  sieve. 
To  I  cup  mashed  peas  add  2  well  beaten  eggs,  2  tablespoons 
melted  butter,  |  teaspoon  salt,  J  teaspoon  pepper,  a  few 
grains  cayenne  and  a  few  drops  onion  juice.  Turn  into 
buttered  moulds,  set  in  pan  of  hot  water,  cover  with  oiled 
paper,  and  bake  until  firm.  Serve  with  i  cup  White  Sauc^ 
to  which  is  added  \  cup  canned  peas  drained  and  rinsed. 

POTAT9ES  AU  GRATIN 

Boil  potatoes,  peel  either  before  or  after  boiling.  Left- 
over potatoes  may  be  used.  Dice  them.  Grease  a  pan, 
put  in  a  layer  of  potatoes,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper. 


84  P-  E.  0.  COOK  BOOK 

moisten  with  White  Sauce,  add  a  layer  of  freshly  diced 
American  cheese,  then  tiny  bits  of  butter.  Add  another 
layer  of  potatoes,  seasoning,  sauce,  cheese,  and  bits  of 
butter.  Sprinkle  cracker  crumbs  over  top  layer,  add  a  few 
more  bits  of  butter  and  place  in  the  oven  until  top  is  brown- 
ed.    These  may  be  baked  in  ramekins. 

Mrs.  Fred  Baumer. 

BAKED  POTATOES  WITH  PIMENTOS 
Bake  the  potatoes  and  when  done  scoop  out  the  contents. 
Mash  thoroughly,  season  with  salt,  pepper,  paprika,  butter 
and  a  little  hot  milk,  then  add  chopped  pimentos.  Put 
back  into  shells,  sprinkle  with  crumbs  and  cheese,  and 
brown  in  oven.  Bess  S.  Parish. 

BAKED  STUFFED  POTATOES 
Bake   medium   sized   potatoes   until   done.     Cut  open, 
take  the  inside  out,  put  in  butter,  salt,  pepper,  hot  milk,  and 
I  cup  of  grated  cheese.     Put  back  in  shells  and  sprinkle  top 
with  cheese.     Brown  in  oven.  Mrs.  D.  A.  Lehman. 

POTATO  BALLS 

Mash  potatoes  and  season  the  same  as  for  mashed 
potatoes.  Make  into  balls  a  little  larger  than  a  walnut,  roll 
in  egg,  then  in  cracker  crumbs  and  fry  in  deep  fat  until 
brown.  Mrs.  G.  O.  Proffitt. 

HOT  POTATO  SALAD 

Boil  potatoes  with  jackets  on.  Peel  while  warm.  Dice, 
add  salt,  pepper,  chopped  celery  and  a  little  minced  onion. 
Dice  bacon  and  fry  brown,  add  ^  cup  vinegar  (diluted  if 
necessary).  Pour  hot  over  potato  mixture.  Add  hard 
cooked  eggs  if  you  like.     Serve  hot. 

Mrs.  Fred  Baumer. 

CREAMED  POTATOES 

Peel  potatoes  and  cut  in  J-inch  dice.  Put  on  to  cook  in 
boiling  salted  water.  Boil  15  minutes  and  drain.  Put 
back  in  pan  with  i  cup  White  Sauce  II  to  2  cups  potatoes, 
add  pepper  and  more  salt  if  necessary.     Simmer  10  minutes. 

Mrs.  D.  B.  Harvey. 


VEGETABLES 85 

CHEESE  AND  POTATO  CROQUETTES 

I  Cup  cottage  cheese,  2  tablespoons  chopped  parsley,  i 
tablespoon  chopped  green  pepper,  \  teaspoon  soda,  |  tea- 
spoon salt,  dash  of  cayenne,  dash  of  paprika.  Mix  these 
ingredients  very  thoroughly  and  form  into  small  rolls. 
Then  imbed  the  rolls  in  mashed  potatoes  which  have  been 
seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper,  forming  a  larger  roll  of  each. 
Roll  the  finished  croquettes  in  egg  and  bread  crumbs  and 
fry  in  deep  fat.  Mrs.  D.  B.  Harvey. 

MASHED  POTATOES  IN  CASSEROLE 

To  a  quart  of  mashed  potatoes  add  i  egg,  |  cup  cream 
or  milk,  a  little  butter,  salt,  pepper.  Beat  all  together  and 
place  in  a  well  buttered  casserole.  Chop  or  cut  very  fine  i 
medium  sized  onion  and  sprinkle  over  top  of  potatoes.  On 
top  of  that  place  small  pieces  of  butter  and  bake  for  \  hour. 
When  ready  to  serve  sprinkle  minced  parsley  over  the  top. 
Miss  Lena  May  Sherman,  Chicago,  111.  . 

SURPRISE  POTATOES 

4  Cups  mashed  potatoes,  \  cup  cold  meat,  J  teaspoon 
salt,  \  teaspoon  nutmeg,  dash  of  pepper,  dash  of  paprika, 
I  tablespoon  onion  juice,  2  tablespoons  chopped  parsley, 
I  egg,  breadcrumbs.  Add  salt,  pepper,  paprika,  onion  juice 
and  half  the  parsley  to  the  mashed  potatoes;  mix  well  and 
if  too  dry  add  a  little  cold  milk.  The  meat  is  put  through 
the  food  chopper;  add  the  rest  of  the  parsley,  a  little  salt 
and  pepper;  mix  well.  Take  a  spoonful  of  potatoes,  flatten 
out,  then  lay  a  teaspoon  of  meat  in  the  center.  Put  the 
potatoes  around  the  meat,  then  form  into  roll  about  3  inches 
long,  being  sure  that  the  meat  is  all  covered.  Roll  in  crumbs 
then  in  beaten  egg,  then  in  crumbs  again.     Fry  in  deep  fat. 

POTATO  CAKES 

Grate  4  large  raw  potatoes,  add  a  little  salt,  3  eggs,  i 
tablespoon  flour,  \  teaspoon  baking  powder.  Make  into 
cakes  and  fry  in  deep  fat. .  Mrs.  Carrie  Morris. 


86  P.  E.  0.  COOK  BOOK 

POTATO  OYSTER  PATS 

Peel  and  boil  potatoes  and  mash  line,  salt  to  taste,  add 
piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  and  4  tablespoons  sweet 
cream.  Beat  lightly;  when  cold  work  into  pats,  putting  2 
oysters  into  each.  Dip  in  beaten  eggs,  roll  in  cracker 
crumbs;  put  butter  on  the  top  of  each  and  bake  a  light 
brown  in  a  quick  oven.  Mrs.  D.  B.  Harvey. 

POTATO  RISSOLES 

Boil  and  mash  a  few  potatoes,  add  a  little  finely  chopped 
ham,  season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  roll  into  small  balls. 
Dip  into  beaten  egg,  then  in  bread  crumbs  and  fry  in  deep 
fat  until  brown. 

ESCALLOPED  POTATOES,  RAW 

Peel  potatoes,  cut  in  ^-inch  dice;  place  a  layer  in  bottom 
of  buttered  casserole,  season  with  salt,  pepper,  bits  of  butter, 
and  a  sprinkle  of  flour.  Repeat  layers  until  casserole  is  full, 
using  plenty  of  butter.  Place  bits  of  butter  on  top.  Pour 
milk  over  potatoes  until  they  are  almost  covered.  Bake  ^o 
minutes,  or  until  tender.  Mrs.  D.  B.  Harvey. 

POTATO  DUMPLINGS  FOR  SOUP 

6  Medium  sized  potatoes  boiled  and  mashed  fine  with  i 
large  tablespoon  of  butter;  4  eggs  broken  into  potatoes  and 
all  beaten  together  until  very  light;  about  i  tablespoon 
flour,  just  enough  to  keep  batter  together.  Drop  from  side 
of  spoon  in  pear  shape  into  boiling  soup  and  cook  3  minutes. 
Should  be  as  light  as  feathers. 

LOBSCOTT 

Pare  and  cut  onions  in  thin  slices.  Pare  and  cut 
potatoes  in  J-inch  dice.  There  should  be  i  pint  of  each. 
Put  onions  on  to  cook  in  boiling  water,  and  cook  1 5  minutes ; 
drain,  put  back  on  stove,  add  the  potatoes,  cover  with  boil- 
ing water  and  cook  15  minutes  longer,  adding  i  teaspoon  of 
salt.     Drain  and  add  2  cups  White  Sauce  II. 

Mrs.  Odelphia  Harvey,  Galesburg,  111. 


VEGEfABLES  87 

COTTAGE  PIE 

1  Pound  beef,  i  medium  sized  carrot,  i  medium  turnip, 
I  tablespoon  chopped  onion,  |  teaspoon  salt,  \  teaspoon 
pepper,  i  tablespoon  butter,  2  tablespoons  flour,  ^  cup  meat 
stock,  I  cup  milk  or  vegetable  stock,  i  egg.  Simmer  meat 
until  tender.  Cut  carrot  and  turnip  in  cubes,  cook  until 
tender  in  little  water.  Save  water.  Melt  fat,  add  flour  and 
onion  and  cook  until  slightly  browned.  Add  stock  and  milk, 
cook  until  thick,  remove  from  fire  and  stir  in  egg  yolk.  Add 
to  meat;  cook  and  mash  potatoes,  add  salt,  pepper  and 
beaten  egg  white.  Line  baking  dish  with  thick  layer  of 
potato,  pour  in  meat  mixture,  cover  with  mashed  potato. 
Bake  until  brown. 

POTATOES  FOR  GARNISHING  (Duchess  Potatoes) 

2  Cups  hot  potato,  3  tablespoons  butter,  J  teaspoon  salt, 
yolks  of  3  eggs.  Press  the  potatoes  through  a  potato  ricer, 
add  the  butter,  the  salt,  and  the  yolks  of  eggs  slightly 
beaten.  Put  the  mixture  into  a  pastry  bag  and  press  out 
in  the  desired  shape  on  a  buttered  pan.  Brown  in  the  oven. 
Remove  with  a  spatula  or  broad-bladed  knife  and  use  as  a 
garnish  for  meat  or  fish.  Miss  Emma  Wright. 

POTATO  MARBLES 

Wash  and  peel  potatoes.  Cut  into  balls,  using  a  French 
vegetable  cutter.  Soak  15  minutes  in  cold  water;  take  from 
water  and  dry  between  towels.  Fry  in  deep  fat,  drain  and 
sprinkle  with  salt.     Use  for  garnishing. 

POTATO  RIBBONS 

Wash  and  pare  large,  long  potatoes.  Cut  round  and 
round  as  if  paring  an  apple.  Soak  in  salt  water  for  an  hour, 
drain,  dry  between  towels,  and  fry  in  deep  fat;  drain  and 
sprinkle  with  salt.     Use  for  garnishing. 

Mrs.  D.  B.  Harvey. 

HOW  TO  USE  SMALL  POTATOES 

Wash  small  potatoes  and  cook  with  the  jackets  on. 
Pare,  brown  in  butter,  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper. 


88  P.  E.  0.  COOK  BOOK 

SWEET  POTATO  CROQUETTES 

^  Cup  hot  milk,  2  tablespoons  butter,  \  cup  sugar,  more 
or  less  as  the  potato  requires,  beaten  into  i  pint  smoothly 
mashed  sweet  potato.  Beat  i  egg  very  light  and  beat  into 
the  mixture;  add  i  teaspoon  salt,  and  enough  cracker 
crumbs  to  make  it  stiff  enough  to  form  into  croquettes. 
Roll  in  beaten  egg,  then  in  cracker  crumbs  and  fry. 

Bess  S.  Parish. 

SWEET  POTATO  CROQUETTES 

Boil,  peel  and  mash  about  6  good  sized  sweet  potatoes. 
Add  salt,  pepper  and  \  cup  milk  or  cream.  Mold  into  small 
cones,  place  in  a  pan,  pour  melted  butter  over  them  and 
bake  brown  in  the  oven.  Mrs.  D.  B.  H'arvev. 

CANDIED  SWEET  POTATOES 

Boil,  pare  and  slice  sweet  potatoes  lengthwise.  Place 
in  a  buttered  baking  dish;  butter  each  slice  and  sprinkle 
well  with  sugar.  Add  \  cup  water  and  cook  until  syrup  is 
candied  and  the  potatoes  are  brown. 

Mrs.  D.  a.  Lehman. 

SWEET  POTATOES  WITH  MARSHMALLOW^S 

Sweet  potatoes  may  be  prepared  as  above  and  when 
almost  ready  to  serve  place  marshmallows  on  each  slice; 
put  back  into  oven  until  marshmallows  are  soft  and  brown- 
ed.    Not  quite  so  much  sugar  is  needed. 

Or,  cook  and  mash  sweet  potatoes,  and  season  with  salt, 
pepper  and  butter.  Add  a  little  milk  and  beat  until  light. 
Put  into  a  buttered  casserole,  place  marshmallows  on  top 
and  brown  in  the  oven. 

SALSIFY  OR  VEGETABLE  OYSTER 

Scrape,  slice  crosswise  in  ^-inch  slices,  and  drop  into  cold 
water  at  once  so  salsify  will  not  turn  dark.  Drain;  cover 
with  boiling  water,  boil  slowly  45  minutes,  drain  and  cover 
with  I  cup  White  Sauce  II.     Simmer  5  minutes  and  serve. 

The  creamed  salsify  may  be  turned  into  a  baking  dish 
covered  with  buttered  crumbs  and  browned  in  the  oven. 


VEGETABLES  89 

SALSIFY  CROQUETTES 

I  Quart  boiled  and  mashed  salsify,  2  eggs,  i  tablespoon 
melted  butter,  i  teaspoon  salt,  a  little  pepper,  i  cup  flour, 
I  teaspoon  baking  powder.  Add  the  well  beaten  eggs  to 
the  mashed  salsify,  add  salt,  pepper  and  melted  butter  and 
flour  sifted  with  baking  powder.  Mix  all  well  together  and 
drop  a  tablespoon  at  a  time  in  deep  fat. 

OTHER  WAYS  OF  USING  SALSIFY 

Salsify  makes  good  mock  oyster  soup.  It  may  also  be 
escalloped  as  oysters  with  cracker  crumbs,  salt,  pepper  and 
butter. 

SQUASH 

Cut  squash  in  halves  and  take  out  seeds.  Put  in  a  drip- 
ping pan  with  the  skin  side  down  and  cook  in  the  oven  until 
tender.  In  this  way  all  the  hard  work  of  cutting  up  the 
squash  is  avoided.  When  tender  scrape  the  pulp  out  of  the 
shell.  No  water  is  used  in  cooking  this  way,  so  there  is  no 
need  of  cooking  it  down,  which  is  such  a  slow  process. 

FRIED  SUMMER  SQUASH 

Cut  a  tender  squash  into  slices  a  little  less  than  ^  inch 
thick  and  dip  into  well  beaten  egg  which  has  been  salted  and 
peppered,  then  into  cracker  crumbs  which  have  had  salt  and 
pepper  added.  Fry  in  plenty  of  fat  very  slowly.  Serve 
with  fresh  stewed  or  ripe  fried  tomatoes. 

Miss  Lena  May  Sherman,  Chicago,  111. 

ENGLISH  RICE 

i  Cup  rice,  \  cup  pecans,  J  cup  cooked  tomatoes,  i  salt- 
spoon  salt,  dash  of  pepper.  Wash,  boil  and  drain  rice; 
strain  the  tomatoes  and  add  to  them  the  seasoning.  Put  a 
layer  of  rice  in  the  bottom  of  a  baking  dish,  then  a  layer  of 
nuts,  then  rice,  then  nuts  again  until  the  entire  quantity  is 
used,  making  the  last  layer  of  rice.  Pour  the  tomatoes 
over  this  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  30  minutes. 

Mrs.  b.  B.  Harvey. 

(7) 


90  P.  E.  0.  COOK  BOOK 

PORTO  RICAN  RICE 

Cut  about  an  inch  and  a  half  cube  of  salt  pork  into  small 
cubes  and  fry  out.  Into  this  fat  put  ^  cup  of  dry  washed 
rice  and  stir  until  thoroughly  mixed  with  grease  and  hot 
through,  then  cut  up  a  medium  sized  tomato  and  small 
onion  into  this.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Cover  with 
hot  water  and  cook  until  almost  dry. 

Mrs.  C.  D.  Stilwell. 

RICE  AND  PINEAPPLE 

I  Cup  rice,  2  cups  boiling  water,  i  teaspoon  salt,  i  can 
pineapple.  Wash  rice,  drain,  and  add  to  boiling  water  "and 
salt  and  steam  |  hour.  Add  juice  from  pineapple  and  steam 
15  minutes  longer.  Remove  from  fire,  add  pineapple  cut  in 
small  pieces.     Serve  hot  or  cold,  with  or  without  cream. 

RICE  FAN-TAN 

Cook  J  cup  of  well  washed  rice  in  i  pint  of  milk  until 
very  soft.  Stir  in  a  heaping  tablespoon  of  sugar  and  i  well- 
beaten  egg  and  remove  at  once  from  the  fire.  Mix  in  ^  cup 
of  assorted  candied  fruits — cherries,  apricots,  and  pine- 
apples— and  turn  into  a  shallow,  well-buttered  pan  to  cool. 
When  firm  cut  into  strips  about  i|  inches  wide  and  3  inches 
long;  dip  in  egg  and  bread  crumbs  and  brown  delicately  .on 
both  sides  in  butter.  Drain,  dust  with  powdered  sugar  and 
serve  hot. 

BAKED  STUFFED  TOMATOES 

Take  medium  sized  tomatoes,  wash  and  wipe  dry,  scoop 
out  inside  and  add  cracker  crumbs,  lots  of  butter,  salt  and 
pepper.  Refill  shells  with  mixture  and  put  tops  on  with 
toothpicks.     Bake  in  hot  oven  10  minutes. 

Mrs.  W.  V.  Rath  bone. 

BAKED  RIPE  TOMATOES 

Scald  and  peel  the  number  of  tomatoes  needed,  scooping 
out  a  small  tablespoon  of  the  center  to  make  room  for  the 
filling.  Butter  a  casserole,  placing  tomatoes  in  and  scatter 
pieces  taken  out  of  centers  around  the  tomatoes  to  help 
form  a  liquid.     For  each  tomato  use   i   level  teaspoon  of 


VEGETABLES  91 

sugar  (for  medium  sized  tomatoes),  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste.  Fill  the  rest  of  space  heaping  with  cracker  or  toast 
crumbs  and  place  a  piece  of  butter  on  the  top  of  each.  Add 
a  little  hot  water  in  pan  and  bake  in  rather  hot  oven  J  hour. 
Miss  Lena  May  Sherman,  Chicago,  111. 

TOMATO  CROQUETTES 

1  Quart  can  of  tomatoes,  i  medium  sized  onion,  8  spice 
cloves;  boil  together  20  minutes  and  strain  through  colan- 
der. Add  1 1  tea'-poons  salt,  \  teaspoon  pepper,  i  table- 
spoon sugar.  Melt  4  tablespoons  of  butter  and  add  |  cup 
of  cornstarch,  and  blend  to  a  paste.  Add  the  tomato 
gradually,  cook  until  it  is  very  stiff,  stirring  constantly. 
Cool  and  add  i  egg  well  beaten;  pour  into  pan  and  let  set 
until  cold.  Cut  in  squares,  roll  in  beaten  egg  and  cracker 
crumbs  and  fry  brown  in  skillet  of  fairly  deep  fat. 

Mrs.  G.  T.  Gaskins. 

FRIED  GREEN  TOMATOES 

Slice  green  tomatoes,  soak  in  salt  water  2  hours,  then  dip 
in  batter  made  of  flour,  egg  and  water.     Fry  in  fat". 

Mrs.  p.  S.  Parish. 

SPAGHETTI  AND  TOMATOES 

2  Onions,  2  green  peppers,  2  tablespoons  butter,  2  table- 
spoons flour,  i\  cups  strained  tomatoes,  i  cup  spaghetti 
cooked  tender  in  2  quarts  of  boiling  salted  water.  Chop 
onions  and  'peppers,  brown  in  butter,  then  add  flour,  then 
tomatoes,  stirring  constantly.  Add  spaghetti  and  simmer 
10  minutes  and  serve.  Mrs.  D.  B.  Harvey. 

SPAGHETTI  ITALIAN  STYLE 

Put  a  package  of  spaghetti  in  boiling  water  and  boil  till 
tender  and  drain,  f  Pound  American  cheese  (cream) 
grated,  i  can  Campbell's  tomato  soup.  Melt  2  tablespoons 
butter  and  fry  i  medium  sized  onion  till  brown.  Into  a 
greased  baking  dish  put  a  layer  of  spaghetti,  cover  with  the 
tomato  soup,  cheese,  onion,  salt,  pepper  and  dash  of  cayenne. 
Continue  in   layers  until   all  ingredients  have  been  used. 


92  p.  E.  0.  COO  A"  BOOK 

Pour  In  whole  milk  until  it  comes  to  the  top  when  pressed 
down  with  a  fork.     Bake  slowly  i  hour  or  longer. 

Mrs.  C.  E.  Combe. 

SPAGHETTI  ITALIAN  STYLE 

Cook  spaghetti  in  salt  water  until  tender,  pour  in  colan- 
der, drain  well,  and  let  cold  water  run  over  it  well.  Cook  a 
pot  roast.  To  the  liquor  add  i  can  of  tomato  paste,  green 
peppers  and  onions  chopped  fine;  cook  several  hours  or 
until  tender.  Pour  this  tomato  sauce  over  spaghetti  and 
grate  \  pound  of  Italian  cheese  and  sprinkle  over  all. 

Mrs.  G.  O.  Proffitt,  St.  Louis,  Mo. 

'  CREAMED  TOMATOES— FRIED 

Pare  medium  sized  tomatoes,  cut  in  half,  roll  in  flour,  fry 
in  hot  butter  till  nice  brown.  Lift  into  a  dish  and  sprinkle 
with  salt  and  pepper.  Thicken  butter  in  frying  pan  with  i 
tablespoon  flour,  add  teacup  of  rich  sweet  milk,  boil  till 
thick  and  pour  over  tomatoes.  Mrs.  D.  B.  Harvey. 

TOMATO  RAREBIT 

2  Tablespoons  butter,  2  tablespoons  flour,  f  cup  milk, 
f  cup  tomatoes,  strained,  \  teaspoon  soda,  i  pound  cheese, 
2  eggs  beaten,  salt,  mustard  and  pepper.  Cook  the  butter 
and  flour  together,  add  the  milk,  and  as  soon  as  the  mixture 
thickens  add  the  tomatoes  and  soda;  then  add  the  cheese, 
eggs  and  seasoning.     Serve  hot  on  toast  or  crapkers. 

STUFFED  TOMATOES 

Cut  a  thin  slice  from  the  stem  end  of  8  tomatoes,  and 
with  a  spoon  scoop  out  the  juice  and  pulp.  Put  a  table- 
spoon of  butter  in  a  frying  pan  over  the  fire,  and  when 
melted  add  a  scant  tablespoon  of  flour.  Stir  quickly,  add 
I  cup  of  stock,  and  as  soon  as  it  boils  up  add  \  cup  of  finely 
chopped  veal,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  ^  cup  of  dried  bread 
crumbs  and  a  teaspoon  of  grated  onion.  Remove  from  the 
fire  immediately,  and  add  the  pulp  and  juice  of  the  tomatoes. 
Fill  the  tomatoeis  with  this  mixture  and  bake  slowly  tor  20 


VEGETABLES  93 


or  30  minutes.     Decorate  the  dish  with  parsley  and  serve 
hot.  Mrs.  D.  B.  Harvey. 

BAKED  MACARONI  WITH  CHEESE 

I  Cup  broken  macaroni,  2  quarts  boihng  salted  water,  i 
pint  White  Sauce  II,  i  cup  grated  cheese,  i  cup  buttered 
bread  crumbs.  Cook  the  macaroni  in  the  water  for  20  to 
30  minutes;  drain  and  blanch  with  cold  water.  Put  the 
macaroni  in  a  casserole  in  layers,  covering  each  with  cream 
sauce  and  grated  cheese  and  making  the  top, layer  of  bread 
crumbs.  '  If  rnacaroni  is  not  salted  enough  add  a  little  to 
each  layer  and  also  a  little  cayenne.  Bake  in  the  oven  until 
crumbs  are  brown.  Mrs.  D.  B.  Harvey. 

TURNIPS 

This  vegetable  is  generally  spoiled  by  overcooking.  The 
flat,  white  summer  turnip,  when  sliced,  will  cook  in  30 
minutes.  If  the  cooking  is  prolonged  beyond  this  time,  the 
vegetable  grows  dark  in  color  and  strong  irT  flavor.  The 
winter  turnips  require  from  45  to  60  minutes. 

'When  tender,  drain  well,  put  back  on  the  stove  and  sea- 
son with  salt,  pepper  and  butter.  They  may  be  mashed  and 
seasoned  with  salt,  pepper,  butter  and  beaten  light  with  a 
little  cream.  Another  way  to  dress  turnips  is  with  cream 
sauce,  allowing  i  cup  of  sauce  to  i  pint  of  turnips. 

SOUTHERN  FRIED  APPLES 

Put  a  rounding  tablespoontul  of  butter  or  pork  drippings 
in  a  hot  skillet.  Then  fill  the  skillet  with  sliced  firm  apples, 
not  peeled,  and  pour  over  them  i  cup  of  sugar  and  2  table- 
spoons oi  water.  Cover  and  cook  until  heated  through  and 
beginning  to  soften,  then  remove  the  cover  and  turn  the 
apples  gently,  occasionally,  until  done.  They  should  be 
slightlv  brown  and  have  a  waxv  syrup. 

Mrs.  D.  B.  McGehee. 


94  P'  E.  0.  COOK  BOOK 

SALADS 

CUCUMBER  AND  PINEAPPLE  ASPIC 

Juice  of  4  lemons,  juice  from  i  small  can  pineapple,  l\ 
teaspoons  hot  water,  i  cup  sugar.  Heat  all  together  and 
add  2^  teaspoons  gelatine  which  has  been  dissolved  in  |  cup 
cold  water;  4  slices  pineapple,  2  medium  size  cucumbers, 
all  cut  fine,  add  few  drops  green  coloring.  Mix  all  together 
and  put  in  molds.     Serve  with  mayonnaise. 

Mrs.  Schoeman,  St.  Louis,  Mo. 

FRUIT  SALAD 

For  each  cup  of  diced  pineapple  use  \  cup  nut  meats, 
^  cup  marshmallows  cut  in  pieces,  and  |  cup  chopped  dates. 
Use  a  boiled  salad  dressing,  substituting  pineapple  and 
lemon  juice  for  the  liquid  in  making.  Ruby  Rice. 

PINEAPPLE  SALAD 

Drain  juice  from  small  can  pineapple;  add  hot  water  to 
make  2  cups;  add  i  cup  sugar  and  let  come  to  a  boil.  Dis- 
solve I  tablespoon  gelatine  in  ^  cup  cold  water  and  add  to 
juices;  cool  and  pour  over  sliced  pineapple;  add  4  small 
sweet  pickles  chopped  and  i  cup  nuts,  allow  to  harden  and 
serve  with  dressing.  Mrs.  R.  F.  Brown. 

MARSHMALLOW  SALAD 

I  Pound  marshmallows  quartered  with  scissors,  i  pound 
white  grapes  seeded  and  halved,  i  pound  English  walnuts, 
I  can  pineapple  cut  in  cubes.  Mix  with  following  dressing 
half  hour  before  serving:  Yolks  of  4  eggs,  ^  cup  sweet  milk, 
juice  I  lemon.  Cook  until  thick.  When  cool  mix  with  i 
pint  whipped  cream.  Mrs.  Jennie  Rogers. 

APPLE  AND  DATE  SALAD 

Cut  3  ripe  Jonathan  apples  in  straws  to  amount  of  3 
cups,  sprinkle  with  lemon  juice;  clean  \  pound  dates  and 
cut  in  strips.  Mix  apples  and  dates  and  marinate  with 
French  dressing.  Allow  to  stand  i  hour  then  add  |  cup 
blanched  almonds  cut  in  strips.  Serve  on  lettuce  leaves 
with  a  mild  mayonnaise. 


SALADS  95 

FROZEN  SALAD 

I  Cup  candied  cherries  cut  in  samll  pieces,  i  tablespoon 
lemon  juice,  J  cup  orange  pulp,  \  cup  crushed  pineapple. 
Dressing:  i  Tablespoon  butter,  2  egg  yolks  slightly  beaten, 
3^  tablespoons  flour,  and  3^  tablespoons  sugar  mixed;  i 
teaspoon  salt,  \  teaspoon  paprika,  cayenne  to  taste,  f  cup 
milk,  f  cup  vinegar.  Cook  in  double  boiler  until  thick; 
remove  from  fire  and  beat  2  minutes.  Combine  fruit  and 
dressing  and  add  ^  cup  cream  measured  before  whipping, 
and  2  tablespoons  pineapple  juice.  Pack  in  molds  until 
overflowing,  then  pack  in  equal  parts  ice  and  salt  for  2 
hours.  Mrs.  C.  E.  Combe. 

EASTER  "APPLE"  SALAD 

Cover  required  number  eggs  with  boiling  water  in  double 
boiler,  set  in  lower  vessel  and  allow  water  in  lower  vessel 
to  boil  gently  for  2S  minutes.  Remove  eggs,  peel  and  while 
hot  press  in  the  ends  and  shape  like  apples;  press  a  twig  and 
2  green  leaves  in  one  end.  Color  the  entire  surface  delicate- 
ly with  green  coloring,  then  tint  each  side  lightly  with  red; 
chill  and  when  ready  to  serve  put  i  tablespoon  mayonnaise 
around  "apple." 

TOMATO  JELLY  WITH  BAKED  BEANS 
Make  tomato  jelly  and  pour  into  ring  mold;   fill  center 
with  baked  beans  to  which  has  been  added  finely  chopped 
onion  and  French  dressing. 

Mrs.  C.  a.  Ledman,  Boston. 

POTATO  SALAD 

Cut  cooked  potatoes  in  cubes,  add  onion,  green  peppers, 
pickles  and  parsley,  all  chopped  fine;  toss  together  lightly, 
add  thin  mayonnaise  and  fill  cups  made  from  medium  sized 
onions  or  tomatoes. 

POTATO  SALAD 

Boil  8  large  potatoes,  mash  and  add  i  small  onion,  i  red 
mango,  2  pickles  and  some  parsley  all  finely  cut;  i  teaspoon 
each  of  celery  seed  and  sugar,  and  salt  to  taste;    moisten 


96  P.  E.  0.  COOK  BOOK 

with  mayonnaise  dressing  but  leave  stiff;  butter  a  glass 
bread  pan  (a  deep  pan  is  best)  and  on  the  bottom  and  sides 
place  slices  of  hard  boiled  eggs;  pack  potatoes  in  solidly; 
make  this  the  day  before  using.  Turn  out  from  mold  and 
slice,  placing  a  tablespoon  mild  mayonnaise  on  each  slice. 

Mrs.  a.  C.  Clark. 

WHITE  PERFECTION  SALAD 

I  Quart  cabbage  shredded  fine  and  crisped  in  cold  water 
2  hours,  I  pint  marshmallows  cut  in  pieces,  i  can  pineapple 
cut  in  pieces,  and  i  cup  blanched  almonds  cut  in  strips. 

Dressing;  Juice  of  2  lemons,  i  tablespoons  vinegar,  \ 
cup  sugar,  i  tablespoon  flour,  whites  of  2  eggs.  Cook  until 
thick.  When  cool  mix  with  i  pint  whipped  cream  and  com- 
bine with  salad  not  longer  than  half  an  hour  before  serving. 

Serve  on  lettuce  leaf  and  garnish  with  marischino 
cherries.  Mrs.  G.  T.  Gaskins. 

CABBAGE  SALAD 

1  Small  head  cabbage  shredded  fine  and  crisped  in  cold 
water,  i  small  onion  cut  fine;  put  together,  add  salt,  pepper 
and  I  tablespoon  sugar;  open  can  pimentos,  use  \  contents, 
chop  fine  and  add  to  cabbage;  use  all  the  liquor  from  the 
can  of  peppers  and  dilute  \  cup  vinegar  (more  or  less,  accord- 
ing to  strength)  with  it  and  pour  over  cabbage;  add  \  cup 
ground  roasted  peanuts.     Mix  and  serve. 

Mrs.  a.  C.  Clark. 

CORN  SALAD 

2  Dozen  ears  corn  cut  from  cob,  2  large  heads  cabbage 
chopped  fine,  8  large  onions  chopped,  6  mangoes  chopped, 
4  cups  sugar,  i  tablespoon  pepper,  \  cup  salt,  \  cup  ground 
mustard  and  3  pints  vinegar.  Color  with  turmeric  if 
desired.     Mix  and  boil  12  minutes,  can  and  seal. 

Mrs.  Andy  Gates. 

GELATINE  SALAD 

Soak  I  package  gelatine  in  2  tablespoons  cold  water, 
pour  on  this  i  cup  boiling  water,  add  i  cup  walnut  meats,  5 
hard  boiled  eggs  minced,  i  can  pimentos,  2  sweet  pickles,  ^ 


*  SALADS  97 

cup  onion,  all  chopped  fine,  \  cup  vinegar  and  salt  and  pep- 
per to  taste;  let  stand  until  cold,  then  stir  in  i  cup  stiff 
mayonnaise  and  chill  in  individual  molds.  Serve  on  lettuce 
with  teaspoon  mayonnaise  on  top. 

COMBINATION  SALAD 

Shred  fine  i  small  head  of  cabbage  and  crisp  in  cold 
water;  to  this  add  small  can  of  pineapple  diced,  i  table- 
spoon sugar,  I  cup  marshmallows  cut  in  halves,  3  small 
tomatoes  sliced,  4  radishes  and  2  cucumbers  sliced,  salt  and 
pepper.  Serve  on  shredded  lettuce  with  mayonnaise  on 
top.     Decorate  with  mango  rings.        Mrs.  A.  C.  Clark. 

A  JELLO  SALAD 

Dissolve  I  package  lemon  Jello  in  i  pint  boiling  water 
when  beginning  to  set  add  |  can  pimentos,  \  cup  chopped 
celery,  ^  cup  nut  meats,  \  cup  chopped  onion,  \  cup  chopped 
pickle  and  parsley  mixed;  add  2  tablespoons  vinegar. 
Mold  in  cups  and  serve  with  mayonnaise. 

GRAPE  NUTS  SALAD 

2  Packages  lemon  Jello,' i  orange  cut  in  small  pieces,  i 
cup  nuts  cvit  fine,  i  cup  Grape  Nuts  and  i  package  dates  cut 
fine.  Prepare  Jello  as  directed  on  package  and  when  partly 
set  add  above  ingredients.  Mrs.  R.  B.  Nyberg. 

CHEESE  SALAD 

Cut  I  can  pineapple  in  cubes,  i  pound  cheese  grated,  2 
cups  English  walnuts.     Mix  with  mayonnaise. 

Mrs.  Jennie  Rodgers. 

COTTAGE  CHEESE  SALAD     • 

To  each  cup  of  cottage  cheese  add  \  cup  each  of  nut 
meats  and  chopped  pimentos;  form  in  balls  or  pile  on  a 
lettuce  leaf  and  serve  with  niciyonnaise. 

Mis^  RiiRY  Rice. 

COTTAGE  CHEESE  SALAD 

I  Pound  cottage  cheese,  3  hard  boiled  eggs  minced,  3 
crackers  broken  fine,  3  pickles  and  ^  bunch  celery  cut  fine,  i 


98  P.  E.  0.  COOK  BOOK 

pimento    chopped,     i     tablespoon    sugar.     Moisten    with 
mayonnaise.  Mrs.  Minnie  Berry. 

CARROT  SALAD 

2  Cups  chopped  cabbage,  i  cup  ground  raw  carrots,  i 
cup  ground  nuts,  3  cucumber  pickles  chopped.  Mix  with 
rich  mayonnaise.  Mrs.  J.  J.  Parish. 

EGG  SALAD 

8  Hard  boiled  eggs  chopped,  i  bunch  celery  cut  in  short 
pieces,  1  pickles  and  i  dozen  olives  chopped.  Moisten  with 
mayonnaise.  Add  ^  cup  grated  cheese  to  make  a  good 
cheese  and  egg  salad. 

TONGUE  SALAD 

Chop  fine  a  good  sized  boiled  tongue,  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste;  add  i  cup  seeded  raisins,  i  cup  English  walnuts,  2 
cups  celery  cut  in  pieces,  i  tart  apple  chopped  and  2  hard 
boiled  eggs  minced.  Mask  with  mayonnaise.  Also  excel- 
lent to  substitute  chicken  for  the  tongue. 

STRING  BEAN  SALAD 

One  quart  cooked  beans,  J  teaspoon  salt,  3  hard  boiled 
eggs,  \  cup  lemon  juice,- ^  cup  minced  onion,  i  cup  chopped 
celery,  i  cup  broken  nut  meats.  Rub  egg  yolks  to  a  paste 
with  3  tablespoons  olive  oil,  add  salt  and  lemon  juice,  stir 
through  beans  and  let  stand  30  minutes.  Just  before  serving 
add  other  ingredients.     Will  serve  12  guests. 

Mrs.  D.  a.  Lehman. 

STUFFED  TOMATO 

<i 

Remove,  skins  from  uniform  sized  tomatoes;  remove  a 
part  of  seeds  and  pulp,  sprinkle  inside  with  salt,  invert  and 
let  stand  half  hour.  Fill  with  chicken  chopped  fine  and 
mixed  with  chopped  celerv,  nuts  and  mayonnaise. 

Mrs.  L.  N.  Finley. 

COCOANUT  SALAD 

One-half  cocoanut  grated,  2  chopped  apples,  i  cup 
chopped  celery,  2  tablespoons  chopped  onion,  i  tablespoon 


SALADS  99 

minced  parsley,  3  chili  peppers  (or  any  sweet  peppers). 
Mix,  marinate  with  French  dressing  and  chill.  Serve  on 
lettuce  leaf.  Mrs.  G.  T.  Gaskins. 

ASPIC  JELLY  SALAD 

Into  I  quart  stock  (beef,  veal  or  chicken)  put  2  table- 
spoons each  of  chopped  celery,  onion,  carrot  and  green  pep- 
pers, add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  juice  of  i  lemon,  3  table- 
spoons gelatine  which  has  been  dissolved  in  i  cup  cold  water, 
add  slightly  beaten  whites  and  shells  of  3  eggs;  bring  slowly 
to  boiling  point,  stirring  constantly.  When  it  boils  allow 
to  boil  3  minutes  without  stirring,  then  let  it  stand  where  it 
will  not  boil  for  10  minutes,  strain  and  mold.  Meat, 
vegetables  or  fish  may  be  added.     Serve  with  mayonnaise. 

Mrs.  D.  a.  Lehmaist. 

CHEESE  AND  OLIVE  SALAD 

Mash  a  cream  cheese,  moisten  with  cream,  season  with 
salt  and  pepper;  add  6  olives  chopped,  lettuce  finely  cut 
and  ^  can  pimentos  cut  in  strips.  Press  in  loaf  and  let 
stand  2  hours,  cut  in  blocks  and  serve  on  lettuce  with 
mayonnaise.  Mrs.  D.  A.  Lehman. 

FROZEN  PINEAPPLE  SALAD 

Remove  paper  from  No.  2  can  grated  pineapple,  pack 
unopened  in  ice  and  salt  for  3  hours  or  longer. 

To  I  package  of  Neufchatel  cheese  (or  cottage)  add  i 
chopped  pimento  and  enough  mayonnaise  to  moisten,  form 
into  balls.  Take  can  of  pineapple  from  ice,  cut  offend,  dip 
in  hot  water  for  a  second  and  turn  out  on  bed  of  lettuce  or 
slice  to  serve  individually,  garnish  with  cheese  balls  and  a 
spoonful  of  mayonnaise. 

FROZEN  HAM  SALAD 

Two  cups  cream,  2  cups  ground  boiled  ham,  i  teaspoon- 
ful  of  horseradish,  6  stuffed  olives,  3  tablespoons  mayon- 
naise and  a  bit  of  cayenne;  3  tablespoons  gelatine  softened 
in  3  tablespoons  cold  water,  then  dissolved  in  J  cup  boiling 
water;    when  cool  combine  with  boiled  ham  and  the  other 


loo  p.  E.  0.  COOK  BOOK 

ingredients.  Fold  this  mixture  into  the  stiffly  beaten 
cream,  turn  into  a  loaf  mold,  pack  in  ice  and  salt  for  3  hours, 
turn  out  and  cut  in  slices,  garnish  with  sliced  stuffed  olives 
and  serve  with  mayonnaise  on  top. 

Mrs.  a.  C.  Clark. 

THANKSGIVING  SALAD     * 

Parboil  turnips  in  slightly  salted  water  after  peeling; 
cool  and  carefully  hollow  centers  with  a  teaspoon  to  form 
cups,  sprinkle  each  cup  with  pepper  and  brush  with  butter. 
Mix  together  cooked  peas  and  carrots,  season  well  and  mix 
with  mayonnaise.     Fill  turnip  cups  and  serve  on  lettuce. 

HALLOWEEN  SALAD 

I  Cup  tart  apples,  ,1  cup  nuts,  i  cup  celery.  Cut  apples 
in  cubes  and  sprinkle  with  lemon  juice,  add  chopped  celery 
and  nuts;  mask  with  mayonnaise.  Serve  in  apple  cups 
made  by  taking  a  slice  from  stem  end  and  carefully  taking 
out  core  and  pulp.  Paste  on  the  sides,  eyes,  nose  and  mouth 
made  from  paper. 

CHRISTMAS  VEGETABLE  SALAD 

Place  lettuce  leaves  on  individual  plates,  on  each  place 
a  beet  cup  made  by  scooping  out  some  of  the  center  from  a 
whole  pickled  beet  with  a  teaspoon.  To  i  cup  seasoned 
peas  add  \  cup  chopped  celery  and  mix  with  mayonnaise. 
Fill  cups  with  vegetable  mixture.  Put  teaspoon  mayon- 
naise on  top  and  place  a  tiny  star  cut  out  of  a  slice  of  beet 
on  top  of  mayonnaise. 

CHICKEN  SALAD 

Mix  ij  cups  cold  chicken  cut  in  dice,  t  cup  celery  cut  in 
pieces  and  i  cup  white  cherries  stoned  and  halved.  Marin- 
ate with  4  tablespoons  olive  oil  mixed  with  2  tablespoons 
vinegar  and  i  teaspoon  salt.  Chill.  Just  before  serving 
mix  lightly  with  \  cup  mayonnaise.  Excellent  to  substitute 
cooked  veal  for  chicken. 


SALADS  loi 

CHEESE  AND  GELATINE  SALAD 

I  Tablespoon  gelatine  softened  in  |  cup  cold  water  then 
dissolved  in  i  cup  boiling  water,  adding  ^  teaspoon  salt,  set 
aside  to  solidify.  When  set  beat  until  fluffy;  then  fold  in 
^  pound  grated  cheese,  ^  can  pimentos  chopped,  and  i  cup 
whipped  cream.  Let  stand  until  set,  heap  lightly  on  head 
lettuce.  Place  half  an  apricot  on  one  side  and  a  spoonfu!  ot 
mayonnyse  on  top.  Mrs.  R.  B.  Reed,  Chicago. 

MOLDED  CHEESE  SALAD 

Soften  2  tablespoons  gelatine  in  j  cup  cold  water.  Add 
I  cup  boiling  water.  Stir  and  cool.  When  beginjiing  to 
set  add  3  drops  tabasco  sauce,  ^  teaspoon  mustard,  |  tea- 
spoon salt,  ^  cup  grated  cheese,  ^  cup  chopped  pimento  and 

1  cup  finely  chopped  nuts.  Beat  |  cup  cream  stiff,  fold  in 
the  gelatine  mixture  carefully  and  pour  all  into  a  can  to 
mold  (wet  c*an  with  cold  water  first).  When  stiff  turn  out 
and  serve  in  slices  with  any  preferred  dressing. 

BEAN  SALAD 

1  Can  kidney  beans,  4  eggs  cooked  hard  and  sliced,  loc 
worth  sweet  pickles,  i  green  pepper,  i  red  pepper  (or  canned 
pimento),  i  tablespoon  each  of  parsley  and  onion  minced. 
Mix  with  cooked  Salad  Dressing  No.  i. 

Mrs.  D.  B.  Harvey. 

POTATO  SALAD 

2  Quarts  potatoes  cooked  and  diced,  3  hard  boiled  eggs, 

2  green  and  2  red  peppers  and  i  onion,  all  out  fine,  i  teaspoon 
minced  parsley,  2  teaspoons  nasturtium  leaves,  i  cup  celery 
and  ^  cup  lettuce,  both  cut  fine.  W^hen  ready  to  serve  mix 
with  Salad  Dressing  No.  i,  which  has  been  thinned  to  con- 
sistency of  heavy  cream.  Mrs.  D.  B.  Harvey. 

TWENTY-FOUR  HOUR  SALAD 

4  Egg  yolks,  juice  of  i  lemon  and  j  cup  cream.  Put 
these  ingredients  in  double  boiler  and  cook  until  thickened; 
when  cold  add  ^  pint  whipped  cream,  i  pound  seeded  white 
grapes  (or  white  cherries),  i  cup  shredded  almonds,  2  cups 


I02  P.  E.  0.  COOK  BOOK 

marshmallows  cut  in  pieces,  i  cup  pineapple  cut  fine.  Let 
stand  on  ice  24  hours  after  mixing.  This  will  serve  16 
people  and  may  be  used  as  salad  or  a  sweet. 

Mrs.  M.  S.  Coleman. 

TOMATOES  WITH  ASPARAGUS 

Peel  and  scoop  out  medium  size  tomatoes.  Take  aspar- 
agus tips  and  cut  an  inch  off  the  length.  Mix  lightly  with 
mayonnaise  and  stand  in  opening  of  tomato  cups.  Chill 
and  serve  on  lettuce. 

MOCK  CHICKEN  SALAD 

\  Pint  pecan  nuts,  \  pound  shelled  almonds,  \  pint 
English  walnuts,  i  pint  bread  crumbs,  2  eggs,  i  onion,  2 
teaspoons  salt,  i  cup  boiled  rice,  i  tablespoon  chopped 
parsley,  pepper  to  taste. 

Put  all  nuts  through  meat  grinder  and  mix  with  bread 
crumbs,  seasoning  and  rice;  break  in  the  eggs  and  mix 
thoroughly,  pack  this  tightly  into  a  loaf  mold,  stand  mold 
in  boiling  water  and  cook  a  half  hour,  turn  out  and  when 
cool  cut  in  small  dice  and  mix  dice  with  an  equal  quantity 
of  cut  celery.     Just  before  serving  mix  with  mayonnaise. 

FROZEN  TONGUE  SALAD 

Add  to  I  quart  can  tomatoes  |  box  of  gelatine,  i  sliced 
onion,  i  teaspoon  salt,  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon  and  ^  tea- 
spoon paprika;  stand  aside  a  half  hour,  then  boil  and  strain; 
when  perfectly  cold  put  in  freezer  and  freeze  as  you  would 
sherbet;  make  a  French  dressing  and  chill  thoroughly  on 
the  ice.  Serve  on  crisp  lettuce  leaves  with  a  teaspoonful  of 
the  French  dressing  over  it. 

TUNA  FISH  SALAD 
\  Package  Knox  gelatine  softened  in  \  cup  cold  water, 
I  cup  hot  chicken  broth  poured  over  gelatine  and  dissolved; 
I  large  can  tuna  fish  minced,  mix  with  gelatine,  pour  into 
mold  previously  decorated  with  parsley  and  pimento. 
Slice  and  serve  with  mayonnaise. 

Mrs.  D.  B.  Harvey. 


SALADS  103 

MELON  SALAD 

Cut  small  cantaloupe  in  halves,  remove  seeds  and  flesh, 
cut  melon  flesh  in  cubes,  mixing  with  canned  pears  and 
bananas  cut  into  small  pieces.  Place  in  the  melon  shells 
and  pour  over  this  a  thick  syrup  dressing  made  of  orange 
and  lemon  juice.  Garnish  with  white  or  red  cherries. 
Makes  a  nice  fruit  course  for  a  luncheon. 

PEAR  SALAD 

Pack  I  can  Bartlett  pears  in  ice  and  rock  salt.  Let  stand 
5  hours,  serve  the  frozen  pears  on  head  lettuce  with  a  sweet 
salad  dressing  and  whipped  cream  and  garnish  with  red 
cherries.  Minnie  Spurlock  Rice,  Chicago. 

CHEESE  SALAD 

Soak  \  envelope  Knox  gelatine  in  \  cup  cold  water  and 
dissolve  over  hot  water.  Moisten  2  cream  cheese  with  a 
little  sweet  cream  and  work  until  smooth.  Add  |  cup 
American  cheese  grated,  i  cup  whipped  cream  and  the  dis- 
solved gelatine.  Season  with  salt  and  paprika  and  a  little 
chopped  parsley;  turn  into  molds.  Allow  to  harden  and 
cut  in  strips.  Mrs.  Elsie  Schoeman,  Chicago. 

PINEAPPLE-ALMOND  SALAD 

One  envelope  Knox  softened  in  i  cup  cold  water  5 
minutes.  Dissolve  in  2  cups  boiling  pineapple  juice,  add  f 
cup  sugar,  stir  until  cool,  add  |  cup  lemon  juice  and  strain 
through  cheesecloth;  when  commencing  to  congeal  pour 
over  I  cup  blanched  almonds  and  i  can  diced  pineapple. 
Serve  with  mayonnaise.  Mrs.  W.  T.  Skaggs. 

PEAR  SALAD 

Work  Philadelphia  cream  cheese  smooth  with  a  bit  of 
sweet  cream,  fill  cavities  of  Bartlett  pears,  serving  2  halves 
to  each  person.  On  the  cheese  place  a  tablespoon  mayon- 
naise and  sprinkle  top  with  nuts. 

Mrs.  Margaret  Hixon. 


I04  P.  E.  0.  COOK  BOOK 

CALCUTTA  SALAD 

2  Neufchatel  cheese,  \  cup  American  cheese  grated,  i  cup 
whipped  cream,  f  tablespoon  gelatine,  salt  and  paprika. 
Soak  gelatine  in  i  tablespoon  cold  water,  add  i  tablespoon 
boiling  water  and  heat  over  hot  water  until  dissolved; 
soften  Neufchatel  cheese  with  plain  cream,  add  American 
cheese,  gelatine,  salt  and  paprika,  the  whipped  cream  last; 
turn  into  mold  and  chill.  Serve  with  curry  or  mayonnaise 
dressing.  Mrs.  Val  B.  Campbell. 

PINEAPPLE-CHERRY  SALAD 

Soak  I  envelope  gelatine  in  \  cup  cold  water  6  minutes, 
dissolve  in  following  liquid:  Juice  i  large  can  pineapple, 
juice  from  i8  ounce  can  Marischino  cherries,  juice  of  3  large 
lemons  and  water  to  make  liquid  measure  3  cups,  sugar  to 
taste;  cool  and  just  before  it  sets  add  pineapple  and  cherries 
cut  fine;  serve  with  oil  mayonnaise  which  has  been  sweet- 
ened; either  green  or  red  cherries  make  an  attractive  salad. 

Mrs.  C.  E.  Combe. 

FRUIT  SALAD  AND  DRESSING 

I  Quart  can  pineapple  cut  in  cubes  and  drained,  ^  pound 
white  grapes  skinned,  ^  pound  marshmallows,  \  pound 
pecans,  |  pint  double  cream. 

Dressing:  4  Egg  yolks,  J  teaspoon  mustard,  juice  and 
grated  rind  of  lemon,  J  cup  milk.  Mix  and  cook  in  double 
boiler  until  thick  but  do  not  boil. 

3  Hours  before  serving  pour  dressing  over  fruit  but  do 
not  add  marshmallows  and  nuts  until  ready  to  serve.  Re- 
serve half  the. cream,  whipped,  to  garnish  top. 

Mrs.  O.  Arensman. 

BANANA  SALAD 

Slice  bananas  lengthwise  in  halves,  lay  on  crisp  lettuce 
leaves,  put  salad  dressing  on  top  and  sprinkle  with  nuts. 

Mrs.  Fred  Baumer. 

GRAPEFRUIT  AND  CHERRY  SALAD 

Prepare  and  sweeten  grapefruit  as  tor  cocktail;  pit 
-white  cherries  and  stuff  with  softened  cream  cheese.     Place 


SALADS  105 

grapefruit  and  cherries  on  crisp  head  lettuce;  grate  a  little 
cheese  over  salad  and  use  a  French  dressing  made  of  oil  and 
the  juice  of  the  grapefruit.     Garnish  with  green  cherries. 

Miss  Bess  Parish. 

CHICKEN  SALAD 

1  Cold  boiled  chicken  cut  in  J  inch  cubes,  equal  quantity 
celery,  washed,  scraped,  cut  in  small  pieces,  chilled  in  cold 
water,  drained  and  dried  in  a  towel.  Just  before  serving 
mix  with  dressing  and  serve  on  lettuce  leaves,  garnish  with 
with  yolks  of  three  hard  boiled  eggs  forced  through  a  potato 
ricer  and  a  few  capers.  Dressing:  |  Cup  rich  chicken 
stock,  \  cup  vinegar,  yolks  of  5  eggs,  2  tablespoons  mixed 
mustard,  i  teaspoon  salt,  dash  cayenne  pepper,^  cup  thick 
cream.  Reduce  stock  in  which  chicken  has  been  cooked  to 
h  cupful,  add  vinegar  and  boil  in  double  boiler.  To  this  adci 
the  dry  ingredients  mixed  to  a  paste  in  cold  water.  Add 
yolks  of  eggs  beaten  until  light,  chill.  When  ready  to  serve 
fold  in  the  cream  which  has  been  whipped.  (When  eggs 
are  expensive  substitute  i  level  tablespoon  flour  for  an  egg 
yolk.)  Mrs.  Chas.  E.  Combe. 

OLIVE  OIL  MAYONNAISE 

\  Teaspoon  mustard,  i  teaspoon  salt,  i  teaspoon  sugar, 
paprika,  2  egg  yolks,  i  cup  olive  oil,  3  tablespoons  vinegar  or 
lemon  juice.  Mix  dry  ingredients  with  egg  yolks  until  well 
blended,  then  add  oil  drop  by  drop,  beating  constantly. 
When  it  begins  to  thicken  commence  adding  the  acid, 
alternating  the  oil  and  acid  until  all  are  used. 

FRENCH  DRESSING 

2  Tablespoons  lemon  juice,  4  tablespoons  olive  oil,  \  tea- 
spoon salt  and  paprika.  Mix  salt,  paprika  and  oil,  add  acid 
slowly  and  beat  until  thick. 

MAYONNAISE  WITH  MAZOLA 

2  Egg  yolks,  I  pint  Mazola,  i  teaspoon  dry  mustard, 
dash  of  cayenne  or  white  pepper,  i  teaspoon  salt,  2  teaspoons 
each  of  lemon  juice  and  vinegar.  Have  all  ingredients  and 
utensils  cold;    mix  drv  ingredients,  add  beaten  yolks  and 

(8) 


io6  P.  E.  O.  COOK  BOOK 

when  well  mixed  add  i|  teaspoons  acid,  add  oil  drop  by  drop 
until  mixture  begins  to  thicken,  add  acid  a  little  at  a  time 
and  beat  in  oil  gradually  until  all  is  used.  Should  be  thick 
enough  to  hold  its  shape.  Put  in  Mason  jar,  keep  in  cool 
place  and  do  not  stir  and  will  keep  for  weeks. 

Mrs.  D.  B.  McGehee. 

GOLDEN  DRESSING 

J  Cup  each  of  pineapple,  orange  and  lemon  juice,  heat  in 
double  boiler,  beat  2  eggs,  add  ^  cup  sugar,  pour  over  the 
hot  juice  and  cook  until  smooth.  Good  for  any  fruit 
salad.  Mrs.  Carrie  Skaggs. 

MAYONNAISE  FOR  FRUIT  SALADS 

I  Cup  vinegar,  i  cup  sugar,  ^  cup  butter.  Let  come  to  a 
boil,  add  3  well  beaten  eggs  (or  yolks  of  5),  i  cup  cream 
(sweet  or  sour),  i  teaspoon  salt,  i  teaspoon  mustard,  ^  tea- 
spoon pepper.     Cook  until  thick.      Mrs.  W.  M.  Gregg. 

FRUIT  SALAD  DRESSING 

1  Cup  sugar  and  ^  cup  butter  creamed,  yolks  of  4  eggs, 
beat  all  together,  add  i  heaping  tablespoon  flour,  pour  in  i 
pint  boiling  water  and  cook  until  thickened.  When  half 
cooked  add  juice  of  i  lemon  and  i  tablespoon  vinegar. 

Mrs.  G.  C.  Stephens. 

COOKED  SALAD  DRESSING  NO.  i 

2  Eggs,  I  teaspoon  mustard,  i  tablespoon  flour,  4  round- 
ing tablespoons  sugar,  i  teaspoon  butter,  ^  teaspoon  salt, 
I  cup  vinegar  (if  strong  dilute).  Beat  eggs  well,  add  dry 
ingredients,  beat  again,  then  add  vinegar,  cook,  stirring 
constantly.     When  using  thin  with  cream  if  too  thick. 

Mrs.  D.  B.  Harvey. 

NUT  SALAD  DRESSING 
I  Glass  of  peanut  butter  thinned  with  J  cup  water,  add  3 
eggs  beaten,  juice  of  3  big  lemons,  ^  teaspoon  salt  and  dash 
of  cayenne.  Stand  bowl  in  a  saucepan  of  hot  water  and 
beat  until  the  dressing  is  thick.  Good  with  vegetable  or  any 
ereen  salad. 


SALAD  107 

CHEESE  DRESSING 

To  any  mayonnaise  add  chopped  olives,  celery  and 
grated  cheese;   excellent  on  head  lettuce. 

RUSSIAN  DRESSING 

I  Pimento,  i  green  pepper,  i  hard  boiled  egg,  i  small 
onion,  all  chopped  fine.  Mix  together  with  3  tablespoons 
oil  mayonnaise,  one  of  chili  sauce  and  i  of  K)mato  catsup. 

Mrs.  D.  a.  Lehman. 

THOUSAND  ISLAND  DRESSING 

I  Cup  mayonnaise,  i  cup  whipped  cream,  i  cup  chili 
sauce,  3  hard  boiled  eggs  and  ^  dozen  small  sweet  pickles 
chopped  very  fine.  Mrs.  Roy  L.  Seright. 

CURRY  DRESSING 

I  Teaspoon  pepper,  f  teaspoon  salt,  I  teaspoon  curry 
powder,  3  tablespoons  vinegar,  5  tablespoons  olive  oil. 

Mrs.  Val  B.  Campbell. 

HONEY  DRESSING 
Heat  I  cup  strained  honey  very  hot,  add  beaten  yolks  of 

3  eggs,  take  to  cold  air  and  beat  until  light,  thick  and  cold, 
then  add  2  tablespoons  French  dressing  and  j  teaspoon  salt. 
Thin  with  whipped  cream  before  using. 

Mrs.  D.  a.  Lehman. 

OIL  THOUSAND  ISLAND 

Put  into  a  pint  jar  ^  cup  olive  oil,  ^  cup  lemon  juice, 
juice  of  ^  orange,  i  teaspoon  finely  minced  onion,  |  teaspoon 
salt,  I  teaspoon  paprika,  i  teaspoon  Worcestershire  sauce, 
^  teaspoon  prepared  mustard,  4  tablespoons  grated  cheese 
and  3  sprigs  of  parsley  cut  fine.  Place  rubber  and  cover  on 
jar  and  shake  until  well  blended.  Excellent  on  head 
lettuce.  Mrs.  A.  C.  Clark. 

TARTAR  SAUCE 

To  2  cups  mayonnaise  add  |  tablespoon  Spanish  onion, 

4  tablespoons  each  capers,  gherkins  and  olives  and  i  table- 
spoon parsley,  all  cut  fine. 


io8  P.  E.  0.  COOK  BOOK 

ASPIC  MAYONNAISE 

To  I  cup  mayonnaise  add  slowly  5  tablespoons  liquid 
aspic,  beating  constantly;   chill. 

TA  TA  SALAD  DRESSING 

Six  small  sour  pickles  chopped,  2  small  onions  chopped 
and  I  cup  minced  parsley;  add  mayonnaise  and  whipped 
cream.  Mrs.  W.  V.  Rath  bone. 

EXCELLENT  DRESSING 

To  ^  pint  heavy  cream,  measured  then  whipped,  add  2 
teaspoons  prepared  mustard-horseradish  dressing  and  i 
teaspoon  sugar.  Mrs.  Taylor  Ferguson. 

DRESSING  FOR  FRUIT  SALAD 
Beat  yolks  of  3  eggs  light,  add  3  tablespoons  of  sugar  and 
3  tablespoons  butter.  Cook  together  in  a  double  boiler 
until  thick.  Add  grated  rind  and  juice  of  i  lemon.  Wliip 
I  pint  of  cream  very  stiff,  mix  with  dressing  just  before 
serving.  Mrs.  J.  H.  Crawford. 


PICKLES 

RELISH 

I  Quart  cooked  beets,  i  quart  raw  cabbage,  \  cup  horse- 
radish, cover  with  vinegar,  salt  to  taste. 

»  Mrs.  W.  V.  Rath  bone. 

HOME  MADE  PICKLES 

To  every  gallon  vinegar,  i  cup  sugar,  i  cup  salt,  i  cup 
ground  mustard.  Pick  small  cucumbers  and  put  into  soak 
whole.  Mrs.  D.  A.  Lehman. 

SPANISH  PICKLE 

I I  Dozen  large  cucumbers.  Peel,  cut  lengthwise  and 
seed.  2  Large  heads  of  cabbage,  3  dozen  small  onions  or  i 
dozen  medium  size,  4  green  sWeet  peppers,  4  red  sweet  pep- 
pers. Chop  fine  and  mix  well.  Salt  and  let  stand  2  hours. 
Press  dry  and  put  in  kettle  in  alternate  layers  with  the  fol- 
lowing spices:  2  ounces  white  mustard  seed,  i  ounce 
tumerick,  i  ounce  celery  seed,  f  pound  dry  mustard,  2 
pounds  sugar.  Cover  with  apple  vinegar,  boil  until  it 
begins  to  thicken  and  seal  while  hot.      Fannie  Gaskins. 

CUCUMBER  PICKLE 

Select  small,  fresh  picked  cucumbers,  wash  and  pack  in 
sterilized  cans.  Fill  cans  to  overflowing  with  liquid  made 
of  I  pint  of  salt  dissolved  thoroughly  in  i  gallon  apple 
vinegar.  You  can  put  up  any  amount  by  using  the  same 
proportion— I  of  salt  to  8  of  vinegar. 

Mrs.  E.  E.  Baker. 

DIXIE  RELISH 

Make  a  brine  in  proportion  of  i  cup  salt  to  i  gallon 
water.  Soak  in  this  brine  for  a  few  hours  the  following: 
Mix  I  pint  sliced  onions,  i  quart  sliced  cabbage,  i  pint  of 
green  mango  peppers,  i  pint  of  red  mango  peppers,  2  table- 
spoons salt,  4  tablespoons  of  mustard  seed,  2  tablespoons  of 
celery  seed.     Drain,  pack  loosely  in  hot  sterilized  jars  and 


no  p.  E.O.  COOK  BOOK 

cover  with  i  quart  vinegar  in  which  has  been  dissolved  | 
cup  sugar.  Process  lo  minutes.  Used  with  a  dressing 
makes  a  nice  salad.  Mrs.  Ida  Stilwell. 

BEET  RELISH 

I  Quart  chopped  cooked  beets,  i  quart  of  chopped  raw 
cabbage,  i  cup  grated  horseradish,  2  bunches  of  chopped 
celery.  Mix  all  together,  add  1  cups  sugar,  i  tablespoon 
each  salt  and  white  mustard  seed,  i  teaspoon  celery  seed, 
little  ground  red  pepper,  enough  vinegar  to  cover.  Place 
over  fire,  let  come  to  good  boil,  seal  hot. 

Bess  S.  Parish. 

SOUR  PEPPER  PICKLES. 

Same  amount  of  sweet  green  peppers  and  tomatoes,  \  as 
many  large  onions,  red  peppers  to  suit  taste.  Grind  all 
together  medium  fine,  put  in  colander  to  drain.  Season 
with  salt  and  moisten  with  good  vinegar  and  put  in  air- 
tight jars.  Mrs.  Lehman. 

CORN  SALAD 

Cut  off  2  dozen  ears  corn,  chop  fine  i  large  head  of  cab- 
bage, 4  green  peppers,  i  sweet  red  pepper,  4  large  onions,  2 
teaspoons  celery  seed.  Mix  all  in  i  quart  cider  vinegar  and 
put  on  fire.  While  heating  mix  f  cup  f^our  (scant),  3  ounces 
mustard,  \  cup  salt  (scant),  3  cups  sugar,  i  quart  vinegar. 
Add  all  this  to  other  mixture  and  boil  45  minutes,  stirring 
constantly.     Seal  in  jars.  Mrs.  M.  S.  Coleman. 

CORN  RELISH,  OR  SALAD 

12  Ears  or  10  cups  corn,  10  cups  chopped  cabbage,^5 
sweet  mango  peppers,  2  onions,  4  cups  vinegar,  3  cups  sugar, 
2  tablespoons  salt,  2  tablespoons  celery  seed,  2  tablespoons 
mustard  seed.     Cook  J  hour  and  seal.         May  Bonnell. 

GOOSEBERRY  CATSUP 

9  pounds  of  gooseberries,  6  pounds  sugar,  i  ounce  each 
of  nutmeg,  cloves,  allspice  and  cinnamon  in  bags,  i  quart 
vinegar.  Put  in  kettle  and  cook  about  3  hours.  Put 
through  sieve  and  seal.  May  Bonnell. 


PICKLES  III 


MISS  MOFFETT'S  GREEN  TOMATO  PICKLES 

Slice  green  tomatoes  and  sweet  mango  pepper  shells  in  a 
crock  with  salt  sprinkled  through.  Put  a  weight  on  and  let 
stand  over  night.  In  the  morning  drain  and  pack  in  stone 
jar  with  layers  of  sliced  onions.  Pour  over  all  a  slightly 
sweet  spiced  vinegar  syrup.  Cover  with  plate  and 
weight  down  and  tie  cloth  over  jar.  Good  to  eat  in  three 
days.  Since  this  is  uncooked  it  must  not  be  put  up  till 
very  late  in  fall  if  wanted  for  winter  use,  and  then  kept  in  a 
cool  place.  May  Bonnell. 

CUCUMBER  PICKLE 

Slice  I  gallon  of  cucumbers,  sprinkle  sparingly  with  salt, 
and  let  stand  over  night.  Drain  well  and  cook  in  the  fol- 
lowing sauce:  3  Cups  sugar,  f  cup  flour,  small  handful  of 
white  mustard  seed,  i  teaspoon  mustard,  i  teaspoon  tur- 
meric, 3  teaspoons  celery  seed;  5  cups  vinegar  diluted  to 
taste.  Mrs.  G.  G.  Mugge. 

MUSTARD  PICKLES 

Chop  fine  i  quart  of  cucumbers,  i  quart  green  tomatoes, 
I  quart  pickling  onions,  6  green  peppers,  1  heads  cauliflower, 
1  bunches  celery.  Mix  well  with  salt  and  let  stand  over 
night.  Drain,  cover  with  fresh  boiling  water.  Let  stand 
10  minutes,  then  drain.  Make  dressing  of  i  quart  vinegar, 
if  cups  sugar,  4  tablespoons  mustard,  i  tablespoon  tur- 
meric powder,  i^  cups  flour  mixed  with  vinegar.  Add  to 
vegetables,  cook  10  minutes  and  seal  hot. 

Bess  S.  Parish. 

CHILI  SAUCE 

I  Peck  ripe  tomatoes,  8  sweet  green  peppers,  5  onions, 
i\  tablespoons  of  salt,  ^  cup  brown  sugar,  i  tablespoon 
ground  cloves,  \  tablespoon  ground  cinnamon,  i  tablespoon 
celery  seed,  1  cups  of  vinegar.  Chop  tomatoes  after  skin- 
ning, chop  onions  and  peppers.  Mix  all  ingredients.  Cook 
slowly  for  i|  hours  or  until  thick.  Put  in  jars  and  seal. 
Mrs.  Ed.  Heister  and  Miss  Bess  Parish. 


112  P.  E.G.  COOK  BOOK 


MIXED  PICKLES 

2  Quarts  sweet  corn  cut  from  cob — do  not  scrape,  2 
quarts  tiny  white  onions,  2  quarts  each  of  lima  and  green 
string  beans,  i  head  cauliflower  broken  into  pieces,  2  quarts 
tiny  cucumber  pickles,  2  quarts  each  of  green  tomatoes  and 
cabbage,  2  bunches  celery,  i  dozen  sweet  peppers.  The 
beans  and  cauliflower  should  be  boiled  in  salted  water  until 
almost  tender  and  last  4  vegetables  should  be  run  through 
food  chopper.  If  part  of  peppers  are  red  and  yellow  makes 
pickles  more  attractive.  Mix  well  before  heating.  Put  in 
granite  kettle,  add  i  pound  granulated  sugar,  \  pound 
white  mustard  seed,  |  pound  celery  seed,  3  tablespoons  of 
salt  and  enough  good  cider  vinegar  to  cover  ingredients. 
Boil  fbr  \  hour  and  seal  hot.  Mrs.  J.  J.  Parish. 

CUCUMBER  PICKLE 

3  Quarts  sliced  cucumbers,  i  quart  sliced  onix)ns,  \  pint 
salt.  Let  these  stand  i  hour.  3  Pints  vinegar,  \  teaspoon 
cayenne,  i  tablespoon  mustard,  i  tablespoon  pepper,  f 
pints  sugar,  i  teaspoon  each  of  ginger,  celery  salt  and  tur- 
meric. Mix  and  boil  5  minutes.     Can.         Mrs.  Lehman. 

CUCUMBER  PICKLES 

Cut  cucumbers  into  halves  or  quarters  or  use  whole 
small  ones.  Leave  in  cold  water  over  night.  In  the  morn- 
ing pack  in  glass  jars  and  put  into  each  jar  a  piece  of  celery, 
small  red  pepper  and  slice  of  onion.  To  every  quart  of 
vinegar  add  |  cup  salt  and  i  cup  sugar,  boil  2  minutes,  pour 
while  hot  over  pickles.  Mrs.  Fred  Baumer.  . 

CORN  SALAD  OR  RELISH 

I  Dozen  ekrs  of  corn,  i  medium  sized  head  of  cabbage,  4 
peppers,  2  red  and  2  green,  2  level  tablespoons  of  salt,  2  of 
ground  mustard,  i^  x:ups  sugar,  i  quart  of  vinegar.  Cut 
corn  off  of  cobs,  chop  cabbage  and  pepper  as  fine  as  corn. 
Mix  all  together,  boil  |  hour  and  bottle  while  hot.  If  corn 
is  large,  add  more  vinegar.  Mrs.  Fred  Baumer. 


PICKLES  ■  113 

RIPE  CUCUMBER  PICKLES 

Take  large  ripe  cucumbers  before,  they  become  soft;  cut 
in  rings,  pare,  divide  in  smaller  pieces  and  remove  the  seeds; 
cook  the  pieces  very  slightly  in  water  salted  just  enough  to 
flavor  well.  Drain  and  put  in  a  stone  jar.  Prepare  a 
vinegar  as  follows :  2  Pounds  of  sugar  to  2  quarts  of  vinegar, 
a  few  slices  of  onion,  some  cayenne  pepper,  whole  allspice, 
whole  cloves,  cinnamon,  according  to  one's  taste.  Much 
cooking  injures  the  pickle  very  much.  The  pieces  should  be 
firm  and  admit  a  silver  fork  with  difficulty  when  taken 
from  the  fire,  Mrs.  Fred  Baumer. 

CUCUMBER  PICKLES 

I  Gallon  cucumbers,  soak  over  night  in  salted  water;  i 
quart  vinegar,  i  pint  water,  f  cup  sugar,  i  green  pepper, 
s'mall  root  horseradish.  Let  reach  boiling  point,  add  pickles, 
let  all  get  hot  through,  but  not  boil.     Seal. 

Mrs.  Minnie  Berry. 

JULIENNE  PICKLES 

Scrape  6  medium  size  carrots,  cut  in  lengthwise  slices  and 
into  small  strips.  Boil  until  tender  in  salt  water.  Drain 
and  let  cool.  Cut  up  3  large  white  onions  and  6  green 
tomatoes,  one  large  red  pepper  and  3  sour  apples.  Put 
tomatoes,  onions,  pepper  and  apples  into  bowl,  sprinkle 
with  salt  and  let  stand  over  night.  Drain,  add  i  cup  sugar, 
2  tablespoons  celery  seed  tied  up  in  muslin  cloth,  add  suffi- 
cient vinegar  to  cover  and  boil  2  minutes.  Then  mix  i 
tablespoon  Coleman's  mustard  with  little  vinegar  and  stir 
into  the  rest.     Seal  in  jars.  Mrs.  J.  J.  Parish. 

GREEN  TOMATO  PICKLE 

Slice  I  peck  green  tomatoes,  salt  and  drain  over  night; 

1  dozen  medium  sized  onions,  sliced  and  salted  over  night, 

2  dozen,  more  if  liked,  cucumbers,  sliced.  Dilute  enough 
vinegar  to  cover  all  ingredients.  Sweeten  and  spice  to 
taste  with  mixed  spices.  Bring  to  a  boil  and  add  tomatoes, 
let  get  hot  and  add  onions,  let  get  hot  and  add  cucumbers. 


114  P-  E.  0.  COOK  BOOK 

bring  to  a  boil  and  seal.  These  are  improved  by  adding  a 
few  green  nasturtium  seed  and  a  few  red  sweet  peppers  cut 
in  rings.  Amanda  Sherertz,  Marion,  111. 

CUCUMBER  PICKLES 

3  Quarts  of  sliced  cucumbers,  i  quart  of  sliced  onions, 
I  pint  of  salt.  Let  these  three  stand  i  hour.  3  Pints  of 
vinegar,  J  teaspoon  of  cayenne,  i  tablespoon  of  mustard,  i 
tablespoon  of  black  pepper,  |  of  a  pint  of  sugar,  i  teaspoon 
of  ginger,  i  teaspoon  of  celery  salt,  i  teaspoon  of  tumeric. 
Mix  and  boil  5  minutes,  then  can. 

Mrs.  Leila  Maxey. 

CHERRY  PICKLES 

Let  cherries  stand  in  vinegar  over  night.  Then  take  as 
much  sugar  as  cherries,  let  stand  till  dissolved,  then  seal. 

Mrs.  Lane,  McLeansboro,  111. 

SPICED  APPLES 

I  Peck  apples,  2  quarts  vinegar,  4  pounds  sugar,  2  table- 
spoons whole  cloves, '2  tablespoons  allspice,  4  tablespoons 
stick  cinnamon  (broken),  j  teaspoon  salt.  Select  ripe, 
hard,  sweet  apples,  peel,  quarter  and  core.  Heat  the  vine- 
gar and  spices,  then  add  apples  and  cook  slowly  until  apples 
can  be  pierced  with  fork.  Put  apples  in  cans,  let  vinegar 
boil  down  and  pour  over  the  apples;   seal. 

Clara  M.  Harvey. 

SWEET  PICKLED  PEACHES 

I  Peck  peaches,  ij  quarts  vinegar,  3  pounds  sugar,  2 
ounces  stick  cinnamon,  cloves.  Boil  sugar,  vinegar  and 
cinnamon  for  10  minutes.  Scald  and  skin  peaches.  Stick 
each  peach  with  4  cloves.  Cook  half  the  peaches  at  a  time 
in  boiling  syrup  until  soft.  Clara  M.  Harvey. 

SWEET  PICKLED  PEARS 

Follow  recipe  for  Sweet  Pickled  Peaches,  using  pears 
instead  of  peaches.  Clara  M.  Harvey. 


PICKLES  lis 

RIPE  TOMATO  PICKLE 

3  Pints  tomatoes  peeled  and  chopped,  i  cup  chopped 
celery,  4  tablespoons  of  chopped  red  pepper,  4  tablespoons 
chopped  onions,  4  tablespoons  salt,  6  tablespoons  sugar,  6 
tablespoons  mustard  seed,  |  teaspoon  cloves,  \  teaspoon  ^ 
cinnamon,  i  teaspoon  grated  nutmeg,  2  cups  vinegar.  Mix 
ingredients  in  order  given.  Put  in  stone  jar  and  cover. 
This  mixture  must  stand  a  week  before  using,  but  may  be 
kept  a  year.  Fannie  Merritt  Farmer. 

— The  Boston  Cooking  School  Cook  Book. 

RIPE  CUCUMBER  PICKLE 
» 

Cut  cucumber  in  halves  lengthwise.  Cover  with  alum 
water,  allowing  two  teaspoons  powdered  alum  to  each  quart 
of  water.  Heat  gradually  to  the  boiling  point,  then  let 
stand  on  back  of  range  2  hours.  Remove  from  alum  water 
and  chill  in  ice  water.  Make  a  syrup  by  boiling  5  minutes 
2  poufiSs  of  sugar,  i  pint  vinegar  with  2  tablespoons  each 
of  whole  cloves  and  stick  cinnamon  tied  in  a  piece  of  muslin. 
Add  cucumbers  and  cook  10  minutes.  Remove  cucumbers 
to  stone  jar,  and  pour  over  syrup.  Scald  syrup  3  successive 
mornings  and  return  to  cucumbers. 

Fannie  Merritt  Farmer. 
— Boston  Cooking  School  Cook  Book, 

PEPPER  RELISH  #^^^ 

2  Large  heads  cabbage,  10  onions,  medium  size,  i  dozen 
red  peppers,  i  dozen  green  peppers,  i  dozen  yellow  peppers, 
I  ounce  white  mustard  seed,  3  quarts  vinegar,  3  pints  sugar. 
Chop  cabbage,  onions  and  peppers  very  fine,  add  salt  and 
let  stand  over  night.  Pour  boiling  water  over  mustard  seed 
and  let  stand  5  minutes.  Bring  vinegar  and  sugar  to  a  boil 
and  pour  over  mixture.     Do  not  cook.     Seal. 

Mrs.  C  a.  Taylor. 

CHILI  SAUCE 

12  Medium-sized  ripe  tomatoes,  i  pepper  finely  chopped, 
I  onion  finely  chopped,  2  cups  vinegar,  3  tablespoons  sugar, 
I  tablespoon  salt,  2  teaspoons  cloves,  2  teaspoons  cinnamon. 


ii6  P.  E.  0.  COOK  BOOK 

2  teaspoons  allspice,  2  teaspoons  grated  nutmeg.  Peel  and 
slice  tomatoes.  Add  onion  and  pepper,  the  dry  ingredients 
blended;  add  vinegar,  heat  slowly  to  the  boiling  point  and 
cook  2^  hours  over  a  slow  fire.  Clara  M.  Harvey. 

SPICED  BEETS 

Boil  medium-sized  beets,  remove  skins,  pack  in  fruit  jars 
when  sliced.  Have  ready  boiled  a  quart  of  vinegar,  i  tea- 
spoon whole  cloves,  i  teaspoon  cinnamon  bark,  sugar  to 
taste.     Pour  this  over  beets  while  they  are  warm. 

Clara  M.  Harvey. 

CUCUMBER  PICKLES 

Soak  small  cucumbers  in  salt  water,  about  i  cup  salt  to 
gallon  of  water,  over  night.  In  the  morning  dry  each  one 
with  a  cloth,  put  in  jars  and  cover  with  following  mixture: 
For  lo  quarts  of  pickles  it  requires  i  gallon  of  white  wine 
vinegar,  though  pure  cider  vinegar  will  do  but  spoils  the 
color  of  pickles,  i  cup  salt,  i  cup  dry  mustard,  2  teaspoons 
of  saccharine  for  sweetening.  If  unable  to  get  saccharine, 
boil  4  cups  of  sugar  with  i  quart  of  vinegar  and  allow  to 
cool.     Then  mix  all  together  and  pour  over  cucumbers  cold. 

Mrs.  M.  S.  Coleman. 

CUCUMBER  PICKLES 

I  Gallon  vinegar,  i  cup  sugar,  i  cup  ground  mustard, 
I  cup  salt,  mix  all  with  wooden  spoon.  Wash  cucumbers 
and  wipe  dry  and  drop  in.  You  can  add  from  time  to  time. 
This  makes  5  gallons.  Mrs.  W.  V.  Rathbone. 

SPANISH  PICKLES 

^  Gallon  chopped  green  tomatoes,  ^  gallon  chopped  cab- 
bage, h  gallon  chopped  onions,  j  dozen  cucumber  pickles, 
i|  tablespoons  salt,  bunch  of  celery,  5  cents  each  of  yellow 
mustard  seed  and  tumeric,  i  cup  sugar,  i  tablespoon  flour 
stirred  in  thin  enough  to  pour,  ^  gallon  vinegar.  Put  salt 
on  tomatoes  and  let  drain  24  hours.  Mix  well  and  heat  to 
boiling  point  and  seal.  Mrs.  W.  V.  Rathbone. 


PICKLES  117 

FRENCH  PICKLES 

I  Large  head  of  cabbage,  \  peck  green  tomatoes,  2  heads 
cauliflower,  6  bunches  of  celery,  2  quarts  of  pickling  onions, 
6  green  peppers.  Chop  cabbage  and  onions  together,  chop 
tomatoes  and  salt  over  night.  Next  morning  make  a  dress- 
ing of  I  gallon  vinegar,  i  cup  cornstarch,  i  cup  white  mus- 
tard seed,  3  dessert  spoons  ground  mustard,  4  cups  sugar, 
I  teaspoon  tumeric.  Boil  this  then  add  chopped  stuff,  cut 
celery  and  cauliflower.  Heat  through  and  seal.  This 
makes  10  quarts.     More  sugar  may  be  added  if  desired. 

Mrs.  R.  F.  Brown. 

MUSTARD  PICKLES 

I  Quart  cucumbers  cut  in  small  pieces,  i  pint  onions,  2 
green  peppers  cut  small  and  i  quart  green  tomatoes.  Soak 
in  salt  water  over  night.  Drain,  put  in  jars  and  pour 
sufficient  vinegar  over  to  cover  and  let  stand  three  days. 
Then  take  \  cup  ground  mustard,  §  cup  sugar,  J  cup  flour 
and  I  quart  of  vinegar.  Mix  together,  cook  and  pour  boil- 
ing hot  over  pickles.     When  cold  cover  closely. 

Bessie  Parish. 

GERMAN  MUSTARD  PICKLES 
Pare  large  white  cucumbers  thinly.  Cut  in  quarters  and 
with  spoon  scrape  out  all  seeds,  leaving  only  solid  meat. 
Salt  liberally  and  stand  over  night,  using  no  water.  Prepare 
vinegar  by  diluting  with  water,  adding  a  little  sugar  and  5 
cents  worth  white  mustard  seed.  Wipe  separately  each 
piece  of  cucumber  and  drop  in  boiling  vinegar,  together 
with  red  and  green  peppers.  Let  cook  ten  or  fifteen  minutes 
or  until  just  before  turning  transparent,  and  can.  The 
success  of  these  pickles  depends  in  great  measure  in  not 
overcooking.  Eva  Clark. 

DILL  PICKLES 
Take  nice  large  straight  cucumbers.  Long,  green  and 
white  spine  are  good  varieties  to  select  for  this  purpose. 
Gather  them  when  they  have  reached  good  size,  but  before 
the  seeds  begin  to  swell.  Soak  them  over  night  in  cold 
water,  wash  them  thoroughly  the  next  day,  giving  them  a 


ii8  P.  E.  0.  COOK  BOOK 

scrubbing  with  a  coarse  brush,  and  pack  them  into  a  keg 
with  alternate  layers  of  fresh  grape  leaves  and  a  few  stalks 
of  dill.  Then  pour  a  brine  over  them,  made  by  dissolving 
I  cup  salt  in  one  bucket  water.  Hold  the  pickles  under  the 
brine  by  weighting  with  a  loose  cover  and  stone.  In  warm 
weather  the  pickles  will  be  good  to  use  in  2  weeks  time.  No 
vinegar  is  needed,  as  the  pickles  will  develop  acidity  enough 
to  be  palatable.  Simply  peel  and  cut  them  in  slices  length- 
wise and  eat  with  potatoes,  meat  or  even  bread  and  butter. 
The  dill  is  not  absolutely  necessary,  but  imparts  some 
characteristic  flavor  to  the  pickles.  Every  seedman  offers 
dill  seed.     A  5c  packet  is  all  you  will  want. 

TOMATO  CATSUP 

3  Gallons  of  tomatoes  cooked  and  rubbed  through  a  sieve, 

1  teaspoon  cloves,  4  teaspoons  each  of  spice  and  cinnamon, 

2  tablespoons  pepper,  J  teacup  salt,  3  teacups  sugar  and  a 
little  over  i  quart  of  vinegar.      Boil  until  thick  and  seal. 

Mrs.  C.  a.  Taylor. 

TOMATO  CATSUP 

Slice  I  bushel  of  ripe  sound  tomatoes  and  chop  10  large 
onions.  Mix,  cook  until  well  done,  cool  and  run  through  a 
sieve  or  berry  colander.  Add  i  gallon  of  apple  vinegar,  | 
pints  of  salt,  3  pounds  of  brown  sugar,  2  ounces  each  of 
black  pepper,  white  mustard  seed  and  allspice,  J  ounce  of 
cloves  and  a  handful  of  bay  leaves.  Green  and  red  pepper 
to  taste.  Use  whole  spices  and  put  them  into  a  cheesecloth 
bag  with  the  bay  leaves.  Make  a  small  slit  in  side  of  whole 
peppers,  let  cook  until  hot  enough  and  remove.  Cook 
catsup  4  hours,  or  until  thick  enough,  and  seal. 

Fannie  Gaskins. 

CANNED  PEPPERS 

Cut  tops  off  red  mango  peppers,  take  out  seed  and  slice 
lengthwise  in  narrow  strips.  Let  drain  and  pack  in  glass 
jars.  Make  hot  i  quart  vinegar,  2  ounces  white  mustard 
seed,  2  cups  sugar,  2  level  tablespoons  of  salt.  Boil  until 
ingredients  are  dissolved  and  pour  hot  over  peppers  in  jars 
and  seal.  Mrs.  D.  B.  Harvey. 


PRESERVES 

DELICIOUS  PRESERVES 

Cook  I  pint  of  shredded  pineapple  in  2  cupfuls  of  water 
for  20  minutes,  add  5  pounds  of  granulated  sugar,  and  when 
the  mixture  boils  again,  add  3  quarts  of  hulled  strawberries. 
Simmer  for  20  minutes  longer,  skim  well  and  seal. 

Mrs.  Fred  Baumer. 

PRESERVED  PINEAPPLE 

I  Pineapple,  |  weight  in  sugar,  i  cup  water.  Peel  pine- 
apple and  put  it  through  the  meat  chopper,  add  sugar  and 
water.  Bring  slowly  to  a  boil  and  simmer  for  about  30 
minutes  or  until  thick  as  desired.  Mrs.  P.  S.  Parish. 

SUN  DRIED  PRESERVES  (Strawberries  or  Cherries) 

1  Pound  fruit,  i  pound  sugar.  Stir  and  set  on  back  of 
stove  until  sugar  dissolves  and  let  boil  14  to  18  minutes. 
Pour  on  shallow  platters  and  set  in  sun.  Stir  each  day  and 
when  syrup  thickens  can  cold.  Cover  with  paraffin.  The 
preserves  are  usually  ready  to  can  on  third  day.  Do  not 
cook  more  than  two  pounds  of  fruit  at  once. 

Bess  Parish. 

STRAWBERRIES  IN  SUN 

2  Pounds  berries,  2  pounds  sugar,  f  cup  water.  Cook 
sugar  and  water  until  it  begins  to  thicken.  x'\dd  berries  and 
cook  for  ten  minutes.  Pour  them  out  in  shallow  dishes  or 
meat  platters.  Cover  with  sheets  of  glass,  allowing  a  little 
air  to  pass  under.     This  will  take  two  days  or  more. 

Mrs.  p.  S.  Parish. 

YELLOW  TOMATO  PRESERVES 

4  Pounds  small  yellow  tomatoes,  3  pounds  sugar,  ^  cup 
boiling  water,  juice  and  rind  of  one  lemon.  Prick  each 
tomato  several  times.  Stir  sugar  in  water  until  dissolved, 
add  tomatoes  and  cook  until  clear.  When  half  done  add 
the  lemon  juice  and  rind  sliced  verv  thin.     When  fruit  is 


I20  P.  E.  0.  COOK  BOOK 

done  put  into  small  jars,  filling  them  f  full.     Let  syrup  cook 
lo  minutes  longer,  then  finish  filling  cans. 

Mrs.  p.  S.  Parish. 

GRAPEFRUIT  RIND  PRESERVE 

Trim  the  yellow  from  the  rind,  then  cut  the  rind  in 
strips.  Soak  24  hours  in  salt  water,  then  24  hours  in  soda 
water,  then  24  hours  in  clear  water,  changing  the  water 
frequently,  then  put  on  to  cook  in  clear,  cold  water.  Bring 
to  a  boil,  pour  off  the  water  and  repeat  the  process.  Put 
on  a  third  time  in  clear,  cold  water,  bring  to  a  boil  and  cook 
until  tender,  then  drop  in  hot  syrup  and  cook  until  thick. 
If  the  syrup  is  quite  thick  the  rinds  candy  and  are  very  fine. 
Jam  can  be  made  if,  when  the  rinds  are  ready  to  be  put  on 
to  cook  they  are  first  ground,  then  cooked  according  to 
above  directions.     These  are  all  worth  the  trouble. 

Mrs.  C.  D.  Stilwell. 

APRICOT,  PINEAPPLE  AND  LEMON  MARMALADE 

To  5  pounds  of  apricots  allow  equal  parts  of  sugar,  i 
large  can  grated  pineapple,  i  dozen  apricot  kernels  blanched 
and  cut  in  strips,  3  lemons.  Peel  lemons  and  cut  the  thin 
yellow  rind  of  2  into  small  pieces  and  slice  pulp  thinly. 
Boil  together  until  thick,  about  45  minutes.  Pour  into 
glasses  and.  treat  like  jelly  when  cold. 

Mrs.  D.  a.  Lehman. 

ORANGE  MARMALADE 

I  Pound  of  fruit  and  i  pound  of  sugar.  Pare  J  of  the 
oranges,  cut  rinds  into  shreds,  boil  in  three  waters  until 
tender,  then  set  aside.  Grate  the  rinds  of  remaining 
oranges,  take  off  and  throw  away  thick  white  inner  skin. 
Chop  or  cut  oranges  into  small  pieces,  drain  all  the  juice 
that  will  come  away  without  pressing  over  the  sugar.  Heat 
until  sugar  is  dissolved.  Add  no  water  unless  oranges  are 
not  juicy.  Boil  and  skim  for  5  minutes.  Put  in  shreds  and 
cook  10  minutes.  Then  the  chopped  fruit  and  grated  peel 
and  boil  20  minutes  longer.     Pour  into  jelly  glasses. 

Bess  Parish. 


PRESERVES  121 


WATERMELON  MARMALADE 

7  Pounds  red  part  of  watermelon,  i  large  can  pineapple, 
2  oranges,  2  lemons.  Cut  oranges  and  lemons  very  fine. 
To  each  pound  of  fruit  add  i  quart  of  water  and  let  stand 
over  night.  In  the  morning  boil  until  tender.  To  i  pound 
of  this  mixture  add  i\  pounds  of  sugar.  Cut  watermelon 
very  fine  and  cook  down  one-half.  Add  pineapple,  cut  fine. 
To  2  cups  of  this  mixture  add  i  cup  of  sugar.  Add  the  first 
mixture  and  cook  until  thick.  If  unsweetened  pineapple 
is  used  add  more  sugar.  Mrs.  D.  B.  Harvey. 

GRAPE  MARMALADE 

5  Pounds  grapes,  4  pounds  sugar,  i  pound  raisins 
(seeded),  i  pound  nuts,  3  oranges.  Cook  orange  peel  cut 
up  in  small  pieces  until  tender.  Seed  grapes  by  slipping  oflF 
skins  and  cooking  pulp  just  enough  to  get  seeds  out.  Cut 
orange  pulp  in  small  pieces.  Mix  all  together  and  cook 
until  thick.  Mrs.  D.  B.  Harvey. 

QUINCE  HONEY 

6  Apples,  6  quinces,  ground,  6  pints  of  sugar  moistened 
with  water  and  cook  to  thick  syrup.  Then  add  ground 
apples  and  quinces  and  cook  gently  until  thick. 

Mrs.  W.  V.  Rath  bone. 

STRAWBERRY  JAM 

J  Gallon  berries,  i  quart  granulated  sugar,  2  level  table- 
spoons cornstarch.  Mash  berries  and  heat  them  well.  Mix 
sugar  and  cornstarch  and  add  to  the  heated  berries.  Boil 
10  minutes  and  seal.  Mrs.  D.  B.  Harvey. 

RHUBARB  JAM 

Cut  rhubarb  into  |-inch  pieces.  Put  in  earthen  crock 
with  equal  amount  of  sugar,  let  stand  over  night.  For 
every  4  pounds  add  i  orange  and  i  lemon  sliced  thin.  Let 
boil  I  hour  after  reaching  boiling  point  and  let  simmer 
gently  another  half  hour.  If  desired  add  i  pound  raisins 
and  I  ounce  blanched  almonds.     Pour  in  glass  jars  and  seal. 

Bess  Parish. 

(9) 


122  P.  E.  O.  COOK  BOOK 

GREEN  TOMATO  JAM 

I  Peck  green  tomatoes,  6  lemons,  6  pounds  sugar.  Slice 
tomatoes,  which  must  be  green,  put  into  kettle  with  sugar, 
being  careful  to  stir  until  sugar  is  dissolved.  Slice  4  lemons 
thin,  removing  the  seeds,  use  juice  only  of  other  two.  Add 
to  the  above  mixture  and  boil  to  the  thickness  of  jam. 

Mrs.  D.  B.  Harvey. 

CRANBERRY  JELLY  WITH  PINEAPPLE 

To  I  pint  berries  add  i  cup  sugar,  i  cup  water.  Boil 
berries  until  soft  enough  to  press  through  sieve,  add  sugar 
and  cook  10  minutes.  Cut  a  small  can  pineapple  in  cubes 
and  place  in  bottom  of  flat  pan,  pour  the  jelly  over  this  and 
let  harden.  Mrs.  D.  A.  Lehman. 

CANNED  STRAWBERRIES 

8  Ounces  sugar  and  2  tablespoons  water  to  each  quart 
berries.  Boil  slowly  for  15  minutes  in  covered  kettle.  Let 
cool  and  remain  over  night  in  covered  kettle.  Put  in  glass 
jars,  put  cap  and  rubber  in  position.  Process  10  minutes 
in  hot  water  or  6  minutes  under  5-pound  steam  pressure. 
Berries  canned  in  this  way  will  not  lose  color  nor  rise  to  top 
of  cans.— Government  Bulletin. 

ORANGE  AND  LEMON  JELLIES 

Genuine  orange  and  lemon  jellies  can  be  made  by  careful 
extraction  of  pectin,  which  is  done  by  peeling  the  outer 
yellow  skin  off  then  taking  the  white  inner  skin,  running  it 
through  meat  grinder,  then  soak  in  sufficient  water  to  cover 
for  several  hours  and  then  cook  several  hours.  Add  to  juice 
and  make  as  any  other  jelly.  This  pectin  can  be  used  in 
making  rhubarb,  cherry  or  strawberry  jelly. 

N.  E.  GoLDTHWAiTE,  University  of  Illinois. 

CHERRY  CONSERVE 

3i  Pounds  cherries,  2J  pounds  sugar,  }  pound  seeded 
raisins,  3  oranges.  Cut  up  orange  peel  and  cook  until 
tender.  Select  large  red  cherries,  stone  them  and  cook  for 
15  minutes',  add  sugar  which  has  been  heated  in  the  oven, 


PRESERVES  123 

also  the  raisins,  the  juice,  pulp  and  peel  of  the  orange.  Cook 
until  thick  as  marmalade.  Mrs.  D.  B.  Harvey. 

PEAR  CONSERVE 

To  I  gallon  of  pears  chopped  fine  or  diced  add  2  lemons 
and  the  pulp,  less  all  membrane,  of  4  oranges  and  the  thin 
yellow  peel  of  one,  i  cup  of  pineapple  diced.  To  each  pound 
of  fruit  allow  j  pound  of  sugar.  Into  a  granite  preserving 
kettle  place  a  layer  of  pears  and  one  of  sugar  until  all  is 
used.  Let  stand  over  night  and  in  the  morning  pour  off  the 
juice.  Bring  to  a  boil,  add  pears  and  cook  slowly  i  hour. 
Then  add  the  other  fruit.     Cook  down  and  seal. 

Mrs.  Jennie  Rodgers. 

RHUBARB  CONSERVE 

8  Cups  of  raw  rhubarb,  8  cups  of  sugar.  Put  sugar  over 
rhubarb  and  let  stand  over  night.  3  Big  oranges.  Grate 
the  peeling  of  2  oranges  and  cook  until  tender  in  a  tiny  bit 
of  water.  Cut  oranges  up  or  run  through  the  meat  chopper. 
Mix  and  cook  until  thick,  then  add  3  or  4  cups  of  English 
walnuts  cut  fine.  Mrs.  W.  V.  Rathbone. 

BLUE  PLUM  CONSERVE 

5  Pounds  large  blue  plums,  5  oranges,  i  package  raisins, 
I  pound  English  walnuts,  3  pounds  sugar.  Stone  and 
quarter  plums,  wash  oranges,  quarter  and  remove  seeds, 
grind  together.  Chop  raisins,  mix  together  with  sugar  and 
let  stand  over  night.  Cook  slowly  until  plum  skins  are 
soft,  then  add  chopped  nuts  and  put  into  jars. 

Mrs.  D.  a.  Lehman. 

GRAPE  CONSERVE 

6  Pounds  Concord  grapes,  3  pounds  seeded  raisins,  3 
pounds  English  walnuts,  4  pounds  granulated  sugar.  Pre- 
pare grapes,  cook  and  rub  out  seeds.  Place  pulp,  skins, 
raisins  and  sugar  on  stove  and  cook  10  minutes.  Add  nuts, 
cook  10  minutes  longer.  Mrs.  D.  A.  Lehman. 

GRAPE  CONSERVE 

5  Pounds  grapes,  8  cups  sugar,  3  oranges  (grind  the  peel 


124 p.  E.  0.  COOK  BOOK 

in  a  food  chopper),  i  pound  raisins,  ^  pound  of  nuts  (nuts 
may  be  omitted)  chopped  fine.     Cook  until  it  jells. 

Mrs.  C.  a.  Taylor. 

JELLY 

Fruit  Juices  Which  Can  Be  Made  into  Jelly. 
Jelly  can  be  made  easily  from  the  following  fruit  juices, 

since  they  contain  pectin  and  acid  in  the  correct  proportion: 
Currant  Gooseberry  Blueberry 

Grape  Cranberry  Plum 

Sour  apple  Red  raspberry  Quince 

Crab  apple  Black  raspberry         Blackberry 

Jelly  can  be  made  from  the  following  fruit  juices  only  by 

the  addition  of  an  acid: 

Pear  Peach  Sweet  apple 

Jelly  can  be  made  from  the  following  fruit  juices  only  by 

the  addition  of  pectin: 

Rhubarb  Pineapple  Apricot 

Six  Things  to  Remember  When  Making  Jelly. 

1.  Fruit  juice  must  contain  both  pectin  and  acid,  and 
contain  them  in  the  correct  proportion. 

A.  Fruit  juice  which  is  lacking  in  pectin  may  have 
the  pectin  supplied  in  the  form  of  home-made 
or  commercial  pectin.  This  should  be  added  in 
proportion  of  one  to  one. 

B.  Fruit  juice  which  is  lacking  in  acid  may  have  the 
acid  supplied  in  the  form  of  acid  fruit  juice. 

2.  Fruit  juice  must  be  boiled  down  or  concentrated  to 
four-fifths  its  original  volume  before  the  sugar  is  added. 

3.  An  overdose  of  sugar  is  a  fi-equent  cause  of  jelly 
failure.  Use  less  sugar  by  measure  than  fruit  juice — not 
more  than  f  cup  to  i  cup  of  juice. 

4.  Sugar  should  be  added  hot  after  the  fruit  juice  has 
been  concentrated. 

5.  Jelly  should  be  cooked  rapidly,  not  simmered. 

6.  The  best  results  in  jelly  making  are  obtained  when 
only  two  or  three  cups  are  boiled  at  a  time. 

Nina  B.  Crigler,  Urbana,  111. 


PASTRY 

A  FEW  RULES 

It  is  better  to  have  everything' you  use  about  pastry  cold 
or  chilled. 

To  keep  lower  crust  from  being  soggy  when  making  juicy 
pies,  brush  over  with  white  of  egg. 

To  get  a  rich  brown,  brush  top  crust  with  sweet  milk. 

PIE  CRUST 

I  Level  cup  sifted  flour,  i  teaspoon  salt,  i  level  teaspoon 
baking  powder,  2  tablespoons  lard,  3  tablespoons  ice  water. 

Mrs.  W.  V.  Rathbone. 

PIE  CRUST 

I  Cup  flour,  2  tablespoons  lard,  3  tablespoons  ice  water, 
I  teaspoon  salt.  Mrs.  G.  T.  Gaskins. 

LEMON  PIE 

Juice  of  I  large  lemon,  i  cup  sugar,  yolks  of  3  eggs,  small 
piece  butter,  3  tablespoons  of  milk,  2  teaspoons  cornstarch. 
Beat  all  together,  bake  in  a  rich  crust.  Beat  whites  of  eggs 
with  3  tablespoons  of  sugar,  put  on  top  of  pie  and  brown. 

Mrs.  J.  H.  Lake. 

LEMON  PIE 

I  Cup  boiling  water,  J  cup  sugar,  3  .ablespoons  corn- 
starch. Mix  sugar  and  cornstarch  dry  and  stir  into  water, 
cook  5  minutes  or  until  clear.  To  that  add  b  '  -^  yolks  of 
3  eggs,  grated  rind  and  juice  of  i  lemon,  i  talr.^.^i^^oX'  melted 
butter.  Put  in  rich  crust  already  baked.  For  2d;  use  5 
eggs  and  double  other  ingredients.  I 

Mrs.  Harry  P.  Smith,  Grand  Junction,  "Colo. 

LEMON  PIE 

5  Eggs  beaten  separately,  add  to  the  yolks  2  scant  cups 
sugar,  2  tablespoons  water,  juice  and  grated  rind  of  2 
lemons,  then  beat  whites  and  stir  into  other  ingredients. 


126  p.  E.  0.  COOK  BOOK 


Line  pie  tin  with  rich  crust,  pour  in  mixture  and  bake  in 
moderate  oven  until  set.  Mrs.  Loren  Felts. 

CHESS  PIE 
Beat  \  cup  butter  to  a  cream,  add  yolks  of  3  eggs  and  f 
cup  of  sugar.     Stir  all  together  rapidly,  flavor  with  lemon 
or  orange.     Bake  in    i    crust.     When  done  cover  with  a 
meringue  of  the  whites.  Mrs.  Etta  Taylor. 

CREAM  PIE 

f  Cup  sugar,  2  eggs,  i  rounding  tablespoon  flour.  Beat 
together  until  creamy.  Melt  a  lump  of  butter  the  size  of 
an  egg,  add  and  beat  again.  Add  f  pin*-  of  rich  milk,  flavor 
with  lemon  or  vanilla.  Bake  with  i  crust  in  a  moderate 
oven.  Mrs.  D.  A.  Lehman. 

CREAM  PIE 

Yolks  of  2  eggs  well  beaten,  J  cup  sugar  creamed  with 
eggs,  2  tablespoons  cornstarch,  i^  cups  rich  milk.  Cook  in 
double  boiler  until  thick.  Flavor  to  taste.  Put  into  crust 
already  baked,  using  the  whites  of  eggs  beaten  with  3  table- 
spoons sugar  for  top.  Mrs.  R.  E.  Wilbaxks. 

SOUR  CREAM  PIE 

I  Cup  sour  cream,  i  cup  sugar,  i  cup  raisins,  2  eggs, 
spices  to  taste.     Bake  between  2  crusts. 

Mrs.  Mary  Willoughby,  Atlanta,  Ga. 

BUTTERSCOTCH  PIE 

I  Cup  brown  sugar,  3  tablespoons  water,  butter  size  of 
an  egg,  yolks  of  2  eggs,  3  tablespoons  flour,  i  cup  milk, 
vanilla  flavoring.  Cook  all  together  until  it  thickens,  being 
careful  not  to  burn.  Beat  the  whites  of  eggs,  sweeten  and 
spread  on  pie  lightly.  Mrs.  D.  A.  Lehman. 

AMBER  PIE 

i\  Cups  sugar,  i  tablespoon  vinegar,  i  cup  sour  milk,  i 
teaspoon  each  of  cinnamon  and  cloves,  i  tablespoon  flour, 
I  cup  raisins,  yolks  of  4  eggs,  2  tablespoons  butter.     Bake  in 


PASTRY  ii-j 

moderate  oven  in  pastry  lined  tins.  When  pies  are  done 
cover  tops  with  whites  of  eggs  beaten  with  a  little  sugar,  put 
back  in  oven  and  brown  lightly.     Makes  2  pies. 

Mrs.  M.  S.  Coleman. 

CHOCOLATE  PIE 

}  Cup  sugar  and  i  tablespoons  flour  or  cornstarch  mixed 
together,  i  cup  milk,  i  squares  Baker's  chocolate  dissolved 
in  hot  water,  i  tablespoon  melted  butter.  Cook  in  double 
boiler  until  thick.  Have  crust  already  baked,  pour  in 
mixture,  cover  with  whites  of  2  eggs  beaten  with  3  table- 
spoons sugar.     Place  in  oven  until  light  brown. 

Mrs.  Loren  Felts. 

CHOCOLATE  PIE 

I  Cup  sugar,  i  cup  milk,  i  teaspoon  melted  butter,  2 
tablespoons  grated  chocolate  or  cocoa.  Stir,  heat  in  double 
boiler,  add  beaten  yolks  of  2  eggs  and  i  J  tablespoons  corn- 
starch dissolved  in  a  little  cold  milk.  When  mixture  is 
thick  pour  into  crust  already  baked.  Flavor  with  vanilla. 
Use  whites  beaten  stiff,  with  a  little  sugar  added  for  top. 
Makes  i  pie.  Mrs.  Lee  McGujre. 

PINEAPPLE  PIE 

I  Cup  powdered  sugar,  ^  cup  butter,  2  eggs,  i  small  can 
grated  pineapple.  Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  beaten 
yolks  and  pineapple.  When  well  mixed  add  well-beaten 
whites,  mix  lightly  and  bake  with  under  crust  only. 

Mrs.  D.  a.  Lehman. 

PINEAPPLE  PIE 

I  Can  grated  pineapple,  yolks  of  5  eggs,  whites  of  2,  i  cup 
sugar,  juice  of  i  lemon.  Cook  in  double  boiler  until  thick. 
Have  rich  crust  already  baked,  pour  in  mixture.  Use  whites 
of  3  eggs  for  meringue,  spread  on  top,  put  into  oven  and 
brown  slightly.     Makes  2  pies.  Mrs.  Loren  Felts. 

PEACH  CREAM  PIE 

Line  a  piepan  with  rich  crust  and  bake,  cover  with  a 
layer  of  peaches  and  pour  over  the  following  cream  filling: 


12} 


P.  E.  0.  COOK  Bodt 


Scald  2  cups  milk,  add  i  well-beaten  eggs,  ^  cup  sugar,  | 
teaspoon  salt,  \  cup  flour  and  cook  15  minutes  in  double 
boiler,  stirring  often.     Top  with  sweetened  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  D.  a.  Lehman. 

CRANBERRY  PIE 

I  Heaping  cup  cranberries,  i  cup  sugar,  i  tablespoon 
flour,  ^  cup  water.     Mix  well  and  bake,  with  2  crusts. 

•Mrs.  D.  a.  Lehman. 

BANANA  PIE 

i|  Cups  sweet  milk,  J  cup  sugar,  yolks  of  3  eggs,  2  table- 
spoons flour,  a  pinch  of  salt.  Cook  in  double  boiler  until 
thick.  Cool  and  add  i  teaspoon  vanilla.  Have  rich  crust 
baked  and  cool.  Slice  3  bananas  very  thin  in  bottom  of 
crust  and  pour  over  the  cream  filling.  Spread  meringue  on 
top  and  brown  lightly.  Mrs.  D.  A.  Lehman. 

RHUBARB  PIE 

Bake  crust  first;  stew  rhubarb  with  sugar  and  i  table- 
spoon flour,  put  in  crust.  Make  custard  of  yolks  of  2  eggs, 
2  tablespoons  sugar,  i  tablespoon  flour,  i  cup  milk  and  a 
little  bit  of  nutmeg.  Put  in  pan  with  rhubarb  and  bake. 
Beat  whites  stifi^,  put  on  pie  and  brown. 

Mrs.  Fred  Baumer. 
CARROT  PIE 
I  Cup  cooked  carrots,  mash  fine,  ^  cup  sugar,  2  eggs,  i 
pint  milk,   2   tablespoons   molasses,   \   teaspoon   ginger,   ^ 
teaspoon  cinnamon.     Bake  in  one  crust. 

Mrs.  Fred  Baumer. 

GRAPE  CUSTARD  PIE 

I  Cup  freshly  seeded  grapes,  i  cup  sugar,  \  cup  butter,  2 
tablespoons  cornstarch,  yolks  of  2  eggs.  Bake  in  i  crust. 
Put  whites  of  eggs,  beaten  stiffs  with  a  little  sugar,  on  top 
and  brown.  Mrs.  Fred  Baumer. 

GRAPE  CUSTARD  PIE 

I  Cup  sugar,  I  cup  seeded  grapes,  lump  of  butter,  i  table- 
spoon flour  mixed  with  2  tablespoons  water,   i   egg  yolk. 


PASTRY  v39 

Beat  egg,  add  other  ingredients  and  b.r.ke  in  i  crust.     Beat 
white  of  egg,'  with  a  little  sugar  and  use  for  top. 

Mrs.  a.  E.  Somers. 

WASHINGTON  COCOANUT  PIE 

h  Cup  butter,  ^  cup  milk,  i  cup  powdered  sugar,  2  cups 
flour,  2  eggs,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  i  teaspoon  vanilla. 
Cream  sugar  and  butter,  add  eggs  well  beaten,  milk  and 
vanilla,  then  the  flour  and  baking  powder  sifted  together. 
Beat  well  and  bake  tn  a  deep  pie  tin  1 5  minutes  in  a  moderate 
oven.  Split  and  put  the  following  cream  between  layers: 
2  Egg  yolks,  I  cup  cocoanut  soaked  in  a  cup  o\  boiling  milk, 
I  teaspoon  flour,  3  tablespoons  sugar.  •  Cook  in  double 
boiler  until  thick.  Put  between  layers  and  dust  with  pow- 
dered sugar.  Mrs.  G.  G.  Mugge. 

RHUBARB  AND  RAISIN  PIE 

I  Cup  each  raisins,  fresh  rhubarb  and  sugar,  juice  of  i 
lemon,  i  egg,  i  tablespoon  butter.  Chop  raisins  and  rhu- 
barb fine,  add  sugar,  lemon  juice,  egg  and  butter.  Bake 
between  two  crusts  in  a  moderate  oven  45  minutes. 

Mrs.  Portia  Parish. 

DELICIOUS  APPLE  PIE— ONE  CRUST 

Put  unbaked  crust  into  piepan.  Into  this  crust  slice 
apples  very  thin,  shaving  the  slices  off  thin  like  potato  chips. 
Mix  sugar  and  a  little  cinnamon  or  nutmeg  all  the  way 
through  the  layers  of  apples.  Fill  the  crust  very  full  with 
sugar  on  the  top,  pour  2  tablespoons  water  over  pie  to  start 
sugar  to  melting.  Bake  very  slowly  so  that  sugar  will 
permeate  apples.     Pie  is  done  when  apples  look  clear. 

Mrs.  Clarence  Bonnell. 

APPLE  ROLL 

Make  a  rich  biscuit  dough,  adding  i  rounding  tablespoon 
sugar  to  each  cup  ot  flour.  Roll  about  \  inch  thick,  sprinkle 
generously  with  finely  chopped  apples,  sugar  and  cinnamon 
or  nutmeg.  Roll  and  cut  across  in  inch  lengths,  stand  up- 
right in  a  baking  dish  with  boiling  hot  corn  syrup  about  an 
inch  in  depth,  and  bake.  Mrs.  M.  S.  Coleman. 


I30  P.  E.  0.  COOK  BOOK 

PUMPKIN  PIE 

ij  Pints  pumpkin,  4  eggs,  i  pint  sweet  milk,  butter  the 
size  of  a  walnut,  sugar  to  taste,  pinch  of  salt,  i  tablespoon 
cinnamon,  i  teaspoon  ginger.  Mrs.  Oval  Ferrell. 

PUMPKIN  PIE 

I  Quart  milk,  3  scant  cups  pumpkin,  ij  cups  brown 
sugar,  I  cup  sorghum,  3  eggs  beaten  separately,  pinch  of  salt, 
I  level  tablespoon  each  of  cinnamon  and  ginger.  Mix  all 
together  and  bake  in  undercrusts.     Makes  3  pies. 

Mrs.  M.  S.  Coleman. 

PUMPKIN  PIE 

1  Pint  pumpkin,  2  tablespoons  cream,  J  cup  brown 
sugar,  3  tablespoons  molasses,  2  tablespoons  flour,  2  eggs, 
^  teaspoon  salt,  i  teaspoon  ginger,  pinch  of  cloves,  3  cups 
milk.  Mix  sugar,  flour  and  spices,  add  pumpkin,  molasses, 
cream,  milk  and  beaten  eggs.     Makes  2  pies. 

Grace  Lane  Raymond,  Sidney,  111. 

PUMPKIN  PIE 

2  Eggs,  pinch  of  salt,  i  scant  cup  pumpkin,  i  tablespoon 
melted  butter,  J  cup  sugar,  ij  cups  whole  or  rich  milk,  ^ 
teaspoon  each  of  ginger,  spice  and  nutmeg,  J  teaspoon 
vanilla.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  until  custard  is  set,  then 
it  is  better  to  have  slower  heat  until  nicely  browned.  Pump- 
kin pies  require  longer  cooking.  Mrs.  Loren  Felts. 

PUMPKIN  PIE 

Bake  crust  first.  Make  a  thick  white  sauce,  using  i 
heaping  tablespoon  flour,  i  tablespoon  butter  and  i  cup 
sweet  milk.  Cook  until  thick  and  add  ^  cup  sugar,  i  egg 
yolk,  2  kitchen  spoons  cooked  pumpkin  and  spices  to  flavor. 
Let  cook  a  few  minutes,  then  remove  from  fire  and  cool 
slightly.  Add  the  stiffly  beaten  white  of  egg.  Pour  into 
crust  and  place  in  oven  till  it  glazes  over  top. 

Mrs.  Ethel  Kane. 


PASTRY  131 

DATE  PIE 

2  Cups  milk,  I  pound  chopped  dates,  2  eggs,  \  teaspoon 
salt,  1  tablespoons  flour,  a  few  gratings  of  nutmeg.  Cook 
dates  with  milk  20  minutes  in  double  boiler,  add  salt,  yolks 
of  eggs  and  flour.  Put  in  crust  already  baked,  using  the 
whites  of  eggs  beaten  with  a  little  sugar  for  top. 

Mrs.  C.  E.  Combe. 

SLICED  SWEET  POTATO  PIE    • 

Boil  2  medium  sweet  potatoes,  slice  thin;  i  cup  sugar, 
^  cup  butter,  ^  cup  sweet  cream  or  whole  milk.  Line  deep 
pie  tin  with  rich  crust,  place  in  bottom  a  layer  of  potatoes, 
pour  over  it  half  of  the  sugar,  sprinkle  with  nutmeg,  then 
another  layer  of  potatoes,  remainder  of  sugar  and  nutmeg 
as  before.  Put  the  butter  in  bits  on  top,  then  criss-cross 
with  thin  strips  of  crust  and  bake  to  a  nice  brown.  When 
done  pour  in  the  cream,  put  back  in  oven  a  few  minutes 
until  heated  through.  A  few  drops  of  lemon  extract  adds 
to  the  flavor.  Mrs.  Mary  J.  Duncan. 


132  p.  E.  0.  COOK  BOOK 

DESSERTS 

BLACK  PUDDING 

I  Cup  sugar,  |  cup  butter,  i  cup  flour,  i  cup  jam  run 
through  colander,  3  eggs,  3  tablespoons  sour  milk,  i  tea- 
spoon soda,  I  teaspoon  nutmeg,  i  teaspoon  spice.  Bake 
slowly.  Myrtle  C.  Combe. 

BREAD  PUDDING 

(  er  2  slices  of  bread  with  boiling  water.  Let  stand  a 
few  minutes  then  drain.  xAdd  \  cup  sugar,  2  eggs  and  beat 
all  thoroughly.  Then  add  as  much  milk  as  pudding  desired, 
flavor  and  bake  slowly. 

Mrs.  J.  H.  Lane,  McLeansboro,  111. 

FRUIT  BREAD  PUDDING 

Crumble  into  a  baking  dish,  buttered,  2  cups  bread 
crumbs  and  pour  over  i  pint  raspberries  (or  any  kind  of 
fruit)  that  have  been  stewed  with  |  cup  sugar.  Let  stand 
until  cold,  then  fold  in  the  stifliiy  whipped  whites  2  eggs  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  well  risen  and  browned. 
Serve  immediately  with  sweetened  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  C.  D.  Stilwell. 

CHOCOLATE  PUDDING 

3  Cups  milk,  I  cup  sugar,  \  cup  cornstarch,  2  ounces 
chocolate,  2  eggs,  i  teaspoon  vanilla.  Mix  sugar  and  corn- 
starch, add  the  scalded  milk.  Add  this  to  the  chocolate 
grated,  put  in  double  boiler  and  stir  constantly  until  thick. 
Add  vanilla.  Caretully  pour  over  eggs,  beating  constantly; 
pour  into  cold  wet  molds.  Serve  with  whipped  cream. 
Mrs.  Geo.  Bowver,  Carbondale,  111. 

STEAMED  CHOCOLATE  PUDDING 

I  Egg,  \  cup  sugar  beaten  together;  i  ounce  chocolate 
grated  and  melted  with  2  tablespoons  butter  and  added  to 
first  mixture;  i\  cups  flour  sifted  with  i  teaspoon  baking 
powder  and  h  teaspoon  cinnamon  and  a  pinch  salt,  i  cup 
milk  and  i  teaspoon  vanilla.     Steam  in    buttered   mold    i\ 


DESSERTS  J  33 


hours.     Serve  hot  with  sauce  made  by  mixing  f  cup  sugar, 

1  teaspoon  cornstarch,  |  teaspoon  cinnamon  together.     Add 

2  tablespoons  butter  and   i   cup  boihng  water.     A  beaten 
egg  white  may  be  added  if  desired.     Myrtle  C.  Combe. 

CHERRY  PUDDING 

Put  a  thick  layer  of  fruit  in  bottom  of  pudding  dish, 
sweeten  to  taste  and  cover  with  a  batter  made  of  i  egg,  i 
tablespoon  butter,  4  tablespoons  sugar,  i  cup  milk,  i  cup 
flour,  I  rounding  teaspoon  baking  powder  and  a  pii  '■  salt. 
Bake  and  serve  with  sauce  made  of  the  thickened  ^  e  of 
the  fruit  or  cream.  Mrs.  M.  S.  Coleman. 

CARAMEL  PUDDING 

f  Cup  sugar,  i  pint  sweet  milk,  4  level  tablespoons  corn- 
starch, I  level  tablespoon  butter,  j  teaspoon  salt,  i  egg,  | 
teaspoon  vanilla.  Melt  sugar  in  a  frying  pan,  stirring  con- 
stantly to  prevent  scorching.  Heat  sweet  milk  and  mix 
thoroughly  with  melted  sugar  and  cornstarch  mixed  with  a 
little  cold  milk.  Cook  directly  over  fire  until  it  thickens 
then  ^n  a  double  boiler  for  20  minutes.  Add  butter,  salt 
and  beaten  egg,  stirring  constantly.  Take  from  fire  and 
add  vanilla.  Place  in  wet  mold  and  put  on  ice.  When 
ready  to  serve  turn  out  on  dish  and  put  sliced  peaches  or 
strawberries  on  top  and  around  pudding.  Cov^r  with 
whipped  cream  and  serve. 

Mrs.  Nina  Gaskins  McHenry,  Chicago,  111. 

CUP  PUDDING 

I  Cup  cream,  i  cup  sugar,  i  teaspoon  salt,  2  teaspoons 
baking  powder,  flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff  batter.  Have 
cups  greased,  with  a  teaspoon  canned  cherries  in  each.  Put 
batter  on  top  of  fruit.  Steam  i  hour.  Serve  with  whipped 
cream.     This  will  serve  7  or  8  cups. 

Mrs.  Clara  M.  Harvey. 

DATE  PUDDING 

I  Pound  dates,  i  cup  nut  meats,  i  cup  brown  sugar,  4 


134  P'  F..  0.  COOK  BOOK 

tablespoons  flour,  i  teaspoon  baking  powder,  2  eggs.     Bake 
40  minutes  in  a  slow  oven  and  serve  with  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  a.  E.  Somers. 

DATE  PUDDING 

I  Pound  dates  (stoned),  i  quart  sweet  milk.  Simmer 
the  dates  in  the  milk  until  the  consistency  of  pudding. 
Place  in  a  cool  place  until  set,  then  serve  with  whipped 
cream,  nuts,  cherries  or  plain.       Mrs.  W.  V.  Rathbone. 

STEAMED  DATE  PUDDING 

Mix  I  tablespoon  flour,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder  and 
J  cup  sugar.  Into  this  cut  i  cup  dates  and  i  cup  nuts. 
Mix  all  well  and  add  to  3  eggs  beaten.  Steam  i  hour  or 
bake  20  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven.  Serve  with  whipped 
cream.  Myrtle  C.  Combe. 

DATE  TORT 

I J  Cups  nuts,  I J  cups  steamed  dates,  measured  before 
chopping;  cream  i  cup  sugar  with  4  whole  eggs,  add  6  table- 
spoons flour,  I  teaspoon  baking  powder,  i  teaspoon  cinna- 
mon, I  teaspoon  cloves.  Bake  in  slow  oven  i  hour  and 
serve  with  whipped  cream.  Bess  S.  Parish. 

DAMSON  PLUM  PUDDING 

Into  a  baking  dish  put  3  eggs,  i  "cup  sugar,  |  cup  butter, 
I  cup  Damson  jam  or  preserves,  i  cup  flour,  i  teaspoon  soda 
dissolved  in  3  tablespoons  sour  milk,  spice  to  taste.  '  Mix 
all  well  together  and  bake  in  dish  it  is  mixed  in,  slowly. 
Sauce:  i  Cup  sugar,  ^  cup  butter,  i  egg,  i  tablespoon 
vinegar  or  lemon  juice.     Boil  until  thickened  slightly. 

Mrs.  M.  S.  Coleman. 

FIG  PUDDING 

I  Pound  figs,  I  pint  bread  crumbs,  5  tablespoons  sugar, 
3  tablespoons  butter  or  i  gill  suet,  2  eggs,  i  cup  sweet  milk. 
Steam  2  hours.  Mrs.  George  Bowyer. 

JERUSALEM  PUDDING 

Chop  fine  ^  pound  dates  and  cover  with  orange  juice. 
Whip  I  pint  cream.     Cover  |  box  gelatine  with  cold  water 


DESSERTS  135 


and  soak  for  ^  hour.  Have  ready  4  tablespoons  rice,  pre- 
viously cooked,  and  sprinkle  over  it  a  cupful  powdered 
sugar  and  a  teaspoon  vanilla,  then  add  dates  and  orange 
juice  and  nuts  or  any  other  kind  of  fruit  as  raisins,  candied 
cherries,  etc.,  as  desired.  Stand  gelatine  over  hot  water 
until  dissolved,  then  cool  until  it  will  just  stir,  then  add  to 
whipped  cream  and  mix  the  whole  and  stir  until  slightly 
thickened.     Turn  into  a  mold  and  let  set  2  or  3  hours. 

Mrs.  Ida  E.  Stilwell. 

MOLASSES  PUDDING 

3  Cups  flour,  I  cup  cold  water,  J  cup  melted  butter,  i  cup 
molasses,  i  teaspoon  soda.  Mix  well  and  steam  3  hours. 
Serve  with  any  kind  of  fruit  sauce  or  a  plain  sauce  or  whip- 
ped cream.  Mrs.  Clarence  Bonnell. 

MADAM  SHERRY 

I  Cup  sugar,  2  eggs  well  beaten,  i  teaspoon  baking  pow- 
der, 3  tablespoons  flour,  i  cup  chopped  dates,  i  cup  chopped 
nuts.  Mix  well  and  bake  in  2  well-greased  layer  cake  pans. 
When  done  it  is  crisp  outside  but  rather  soft  like  macaroons 
on  the  inside.  Break  up  when  cool  and  serve  with  whipped 
cream.  Mrs.  R.  F.  Brown. 

NIGGER  BABY  PUDDING 

Take  quantity  of  bread  that  you  want  pudding,  use 
enough  milk  to  moisten  well,  then  add  2  eggs  well  beaten, 
I  pound  raisins,  |  pound  currants,  i  heaping  tablespoon  cin- 
namon, 2  tablespoons  cloves,  same  of  allspice,  ^  tablespoon 
nutmeg,  j  cup  maple  syrup,  pinch  soda.  -Bake  in  moderate 
oven  and  serve  with  hard  sauce. 

Mrs.  J.  H.  Lane,  McLeansboro,  111. 

P.  E.  O.  PUDDING 

Cut  3  large  oranges  into  bits  in  a  baking  dish,  sprinkle 
with  sugar.  Make  a  custard  of  the  yolks  of  3  eggs,  f  cup 
sugar,  2  tablespoons  flour,  i  pint  milk.  Cook  until  creamy, 
then  pour  over  oranges.     Beat  whites  of  eggs  until  stiffs  and 


136  p.  E.  0.  COOK  BOOK 

add  3   tablespoons  sugar  and  spread  on   top  of  pudding. 
Place  in  oven  until  slightly  brown. 

Mrs.  D.  a.  Lehman. 

PLUM  PUDDING 

I  Cup  finely  chopped  suet,  i  cup  molasses,  i  cup  milk, 
either  sweet  or  sour,  i  cup  raisins,  3  cups  flour,  i  teaspoon 
salt,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder  if  sweet  milk,  i  teaspoon 
soda  if  sour  milk  is  used,  i  teaspoon  each  cinnamon,  cloves, 
allspice,  ginger,  nutmeg.     Steam  4  hours. 

Mrs.  Clara  M.  Harvey; 

PUMPKIN  PUDDING 

I  Cup  pumpkin,  2  eggs,  2  cups  milk,  i  scant  cup  sugar, 
I  teaspoon  cinnamon,  |  teaspoon  ginger,  i|  cups  cooked 
rice.     Bake.  Myrtle  C.  Combe. 

PRUNE  PUDDING 

^  Pound  prunes,  2  cups  cold  water,  i  cup  sugar,  ^  tea- 
spoon cinnamon,  ij  cups  boiling  water,  ^  cup  cornstarch, 
I  cup  nuts  added  to  this  pudding  improves  it,  2  tablespoons 
lemon  juice,  x^fter  soaking  prunes  in  thecoldwater  cook  until 
done,  stone  and  add  sugar,  cinnamon  and  cornstarch.  Mix 
well,  add  boiling  water,  cook  until  thick,  then  add  lemon. 
Serve  with  whipped  cream  on  top.  Mary  Ego. 

PRUNE  PUDDING 

Roll  5  or  6  crackers  fine,  seed  cooked  prunes  until  you 
have  I  cup,  add  lump  of  butter,  J  cup  black  walnuts,  ^  cup 
sugar,  J  cup  cream  or  sweet  milk,  f  teaspoon  baking  pow- 
der. Mix  all  together  well,  and  bake  in  a  greased  piepan 
in  quick  oven  about  20  minutes.  Sauce  :  Melt  lump  butter, 
add  I  tablespoon  flour,  i  tablespoon  sugar,  and  i  cup  hot 
water.  Cook  until  it  thickens  and  flavor  with  vanilla, 
grape  juice,  wine  or  whatever  desired. 

Mrs.  D.  a.  Lehman. 

PRUNE  WHIP 

After  cooking  ^  pound  of  prunes,  remove  stones  and  add 
J  cup  sugar  and  cook  5  minutes.     Put  through  colander  and 


DESSERTS 


J/ 


cool.  Just  before  serving  beat  whites  of  6  eggs  very  stiff, 
add  prunes  and  ^  teaspoon  lemon  juice.  Bake  in  moderate 
oven  until  brown  and  serve  at  once  with  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  D.  a.  Lehman. 

PINEAPPLE  TAPIOCA 

I J  Pints  sweet  milk,  2  eggs  well  beaten,  ^  cup  sugar,  | 
of  a  pint  can  grated  pineapple,  |  cup  "One  Minute"  tapioca. 
Soak  tapioca  in  milk,  add  eggs,  pineapple  and  bake,  stirring 
3  times  while  baking.  Place  pan  in  another  pan  filled  with 
water  while  baking.  Mrs.  W.  V.  Rathbone. 

SUET  PUDDING 

ij  Cups  suet  chopped  fine,  2  cups  flour,  i  cup  sv/eet 
milk,  I  cup  sugar,  ^  cup  molasses,  i^  cups  raisins,  ^  teaspoon 
soda  in  a  little  water.  Steam  3  hours.  Sauce:  i  Pint 
water,  lump  butter  size  of  an  egg,  scant  cup  sugar.  Thicken 
with  a  little  flour  wet  with  water  and  flavor  with  vanilla. 

Mrs.  C.  a.  Taylor. 

SUET  PUDDING 

2  Cups  bread  crumbs,  |  cup  suet,  ^  cup  milk,  J  cup  corn 
syrup,  I  cup  raisins,  i  egg,  ^  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in 
milk,  I  teaspoon  cinnamon,  |  teaspoon  nutmeg.  Mix  and 
steam  in  baking  powder  tin.  Sauce:  i  Tablespoon  butter 
creamed  with  i  teaspoon  flour,  i  cup  sugar,  i|  cups  water. 
Boil  and  flavor  with  vanilla.  Mrs.  Grace  Ledford. 

SUET  PUDDING 

I  Cup  each  stoned  raisins,  currants  and  sviet,  |  teaspoon 
each  cinnamon  and  nutmeg,  i  egg,  pinch  salt,  i  cup  sorg- 
hum, I  cup  sweet  milk,  i  teaspoon  soda  in  little  of  the  milk, 
3  cups  flour.  Put  in  2  baking  powder  cans  and  steam  2 
hours.     The  oftener  steamed  the  better. 

Mrs.  D.  a.  Lehman. 

VEGETABLE  PUDDING 

I  Cup  ground  carrots,  i  cup  ground  potato,  i  pound 
raisins,  i  tablespoon  shortening,  i  cup  flour,  2  teaspoons 
spices,  I  cup  sugar,  i  tablespoon  soda  in  J  cup  hot  water. 

(10) 


ijS  p.  E.  O.  COOK  BOOK 

Steam  2  or  more  hours.  Sauce:  i  Tablespoon  butter,  i 
egg,  \  cup  sugar,  pinch  salt.  Mix  these  and  pour  on  i  cup 
boiling  water,  stirring  constantly.     Flavor.  * 

Mrs.  J.  E.  Holmes,  Galesburg,  111. 

VICTORY  PUDDING 

Dissolve  I  package  lemon  Jello  in  2  cups  boiling  water 
and  pour  over  i  cup  Grape  Nuts,  i  cup  raisins,  i  scant  cup 
sugar,  I  cup  cooked  prunes  cut  fine,  i  teaspoon  each  cinna- 
mon and  allspice,  pinch  salt.  Mold  and  serve  with  whipped 
cream.  Mrs.  G.  O.  Proffitt,  Webster  Grove,  Mo. 

BAKED  APPLE  DUMPLINGS 

Make  a  sour  milk  and  soda  biscuit  dough  only  use  more 
shortening  and  add  2  tablespoons  sugar.  Roll  out  in  pieces 
large  enough  for  i  dumpling,  but  not  too  thin.  Have  apples 
peeled,  cut  in  \  pieces,  slightly  cooked  and  drained.  Wrap 
several  pieces  of  apple  in  each  piece  of  dough,  adding  sugar 
and  cinnamon.  Put  in  greased  pan,  pour  a  little  water  in 
pan  and  set  in  oven  to  bake.  Make  a  sugar  sauce  and  serve 
each  dumpling  with  this  sauce  and  cream. 

Mrs.  Clarence  Bonnell. 

CUSTARD  SOUFFLE 

I  Tablespoon  butter,  2  tablespoons  flour,  cream  together 
on  stove  and  add  i  cup.  milk,  |  cup  sugar  and  cook  until 
thick,  then  cool.  Beat  4  eggs  separately,  add  yolks  first 
then  fold  in  whites.  Flavor  with  vanilla.  Bake  in  a  slow 
oven  15  minutes  and  serve  with  plain  cream. 

Mrs.  D.  a.  Lehman. 

FOOD  FOR  THE  GODS 

I  Pound  English  walnuts  broken,  |  pound  dates  cut  fine, 
2  cups  granulated  sugar,  6  eggs  beaten  separately,  9  table- 
spoons rolled  cracker  crumbs,  bake  in  slow  oven  about,  i 
hour.  Serve  with  whipped  cream.  This  amount  will  serve 
12  or  15  persons.  Mrs.  Clara  M.  Harvey. 

FOOD  FOR  THE  GODS 

3  Tablespoons  sugar,  ^  cup  corn  syrup,  3  eggs,  yolks  and 


DESSERTS  139 


whites  beaten  separately,  7  heaping  tablespoons  crumbs,  i 
level  teaspoon  baking  powder,  i  package  dates,  i  cup  nuts. 
Bake  40  minutes  in  a  slow  oven  and  serve  with  whipped 
cream.  Mrs.  Ida  E.  Stilwell. 

STRAWBERRY  SHORTCAKE 

I  Quart  flour,  3  tablespoons  butter,  i  cup  milk,  i  egg,  i 
tablespoon  sugar,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder.  When  baked 
and  while  warm  open  the  cake  and  spread  with  butter. 
Have  berries  crushed  and  covered  with  sugar,  spread 
between  cake  and  on  top.     Serve  with  cream. 

Mrs.  Clara  M.  Harvey. 

ICE  BOX  CAKE 

Line  dish  with  Lady  Fingers  or  strips  of  Ward  Sponge 
cake.  I  Pint  cream  whipped  very  stiff,  whites  2  eggs  beaten 
very  stiff,  2  tablespoons  Knox  gelatine  dissolved  in  J  cup 
sweet  milk,  use  double  boiler.  Drop  hot  gelatine  into  eggs 
as  for  frosting  and  when  cool  enough  not  to  melt  cream,  mix 
with  cream.  (Do  not  let  eggs  and  milk  get  cold  or  mixture 
will  be  lumpy.)  Add  ^  cup  powdered  sugar  and  a  little 
vanilla.  Any  dry  fruit  such  as  strawberries  or  fresh  peaches 
cut  fine  may  be  added.  Pour  into  dish  lined  with  Lady 
Fingers  and  garnish  top  with  same.  Set  in  ice  box  and  when 
cold  turn  on  chop  plate  and  serve  like  slices  of  cake  with 
coffee.  Mrs.  G.  T.  Gaskins. 


ORANGE  TAPIOCA  FLUFF 

I  Cup  Minute  tapioca,  i  cup  sugar,  2  cups  water,  3 
oranges,  2  eggs.  Cook  tapioca,  sugar,  water  in  a  double 
boiler  until  clear;  add  the  orange  juice  about  3  minutes 
before  taking  off  the  stove.  When  cool,  fold  into  it  the 
well-beaten  whites  of  the  eggs.  Serve  with  a  soft  custard 
made  with  the  yolks  of  th^  eggs,  2  cups  milk  and  i  cup 
sugar.  Mrs.  Nelia  Gregg. 

SOUR  CREAM  CUSTARD 

I  Cup  sugar,  i  cup  sour  cream,  i  rounded  tablespoon 
flour,  I   tablespoon  vinegar,  ^  cup  dates,  2  eggs.     Mix  all 


I40  P.  E.  0.  COOK  BOOK 

together  except  whites  of  eggs.  When  custard  is  cooked, 
beat  white  of  eggs  stiff,  add  a  little  sugar,  spread  on  custard 
and  brown  in  oven.  Miss  Emma  Wright. 

FLOATING  ISLAND 

I  Quart  milk,  4  eggs,  4  tablespoons  sugar.  Put  milk  in 
double  boiler  and  when  hot  pour  over  beaten  yolks.  Put 
back  on  fire  and  stir  constantly  until  it  thickens.  Remove 
from  fire,  stir  in  beaten  whites,  reserving  i  for  the  "Island" 
on  top,  when  cold  flavor  with  vanilla. 

Mrs.  D.  a.  Lehman. 
KISSES 

W^hites  of  6  eggs  with  a  pinch  salt  beaten  stiff.  Add  2 
cups  granulated  sugar.  Beat  all  together  hard  and  add  h 
teaspoon  vinegar,  J  teaspoon  vanilla,  and  put  in  piles  on 
greased  pans  and  bake  slowly  40  minutes.  This  makes 
from  8  to  10  kisses. 

Garnish  for  Kisses:  i  Cup  cream  whipped,  j  cup  can- 
died cherries  cut  fine,  J  cup  candied  pineapple  cut  very  fine, 
J  cup  blanched  almonds  cut  very  fine.  Fold  fruit  and  nuts 
into  the  whipped  cream,  taking  care  not  to  break  down  the 
cream.     Cover  the  top  of  the  kisses  with  this  mixture. 

Mrs.  C.  E.  Combe. 

KISSES 

White  of  I  egg  beaten  very  stiff,  j  cup  sugar.  Grease 
paper  and  drop  meringvie  on  paper  with  a  tablespoon.  Bake 
slowly  until  brown.  When  cool  cut  tops  off,  fill  with  fruit 
or  cream,  put  tops  on  and  serve.       Mrs.  D.  A.  Lehman. 

SCALLOPED  APPLES 

4  Cups  sliced  apples,  j  cup  melted  butter,  2  cups  bread 
crumbs,  |  cup  sugar,  rind  and  juice  i  lemon,  |  teaspoon 
cinnamon  or  nutmeg.  Mix  crumbs,  butter,  spice,  sugar  and 
lemon  together  and  spread  f  of  the  mixture  in  bottom  of 
baking  dish,  then  a  layer  of  apple  and  another  layer  of 
crumbs,  having  a  layer  of  crumbs  on  top.  Serve  with 
cream.  Mrs.  G.  T.  Gaskins. 


DESSERTS  141 


SMOTHERED  BANANAS 

Peel  and  cut  4  large  bananas  in  half  lengthwise,  then  cut 
in  halves  crosswise.  Melt  2  tablespoons  butter,  add  2  table- 
spoons sugar  and  |  cup  orange  juice.  When  hot  add  the 
prepared  bananas  and  cook  until  soft.  Remove  bananas  to 
hot  serving  plates  and  pour  over  orange  s^uce  made  as  fol- 
lows: Mix  2  teaspoons  cornstarch  and  i  cup  sugar.  Add  2 
cups  boiling  water  and  cook  slowly  for  20  minutes,  stirring 
constantly  first  5  minutes.  Add  grated  rind  and  juice  2 
small  oranges,  i  tablespoon  lemon  juice  and  |  tablespoon 
butter.  Serve  hot.  May  be  used  as  light  dessert  or  with 
a  meat  course.  Mrs.  G.  G.  Mugge. 

BAVARIAN  CREAM 

I  Package  Knox  gelatine  soaked  in  i  cup  cold  water  for  2 
hours,  I  can  shredded  pineapple  boiled  slowly  with  i  cup 
sugar  for  .20  minutes.  Just  before  removing  from  the  fire 
add  the  gelatine.  When  cold  beat  in  i  pint  whipped  cream. 
Put  into  molds.  Make  the  day  before  and  keep  on  ice. 
Serve  with  whipped  cream.  Mrs.  W.  V.  Rathbone. 

ANGELS'  DELIGHT 

I  Cup  pineapple  cut  in  pieces,  |  package  marshmallows 
cut  in  quarters,  i  cup  chopped  almonds.  Whip  ^  pint 
cream  and  let  marshmallows  stand  in  cream  for  2  hours. 
Just  before  serving  add  other  ingredients. 

Mrs.  D.  a.  Lehmax. 

MACAROON  PUDDING 

Cream  until  very  light  the  yolks  of  8  eggs.  Add  4  table- 
spoons of  dry  gelatin  and  2  cups  of  sugar  to  the  yolks  and 
beat  very  light.  Let  i  pint  of  milk  get  very  hot  in  a  double 
boiler,  then  add  yolks.  Cook  until  done  but  not  too  long 
or  it  will  curdle.  Let  cool,  then  fold  into  the  custard  the 
stifiiy  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs.  Pour  this  over  broken 
macaroons  and  chopped  almonds — or  other  nuts.  Pour 
into  a  mold  and  let  cool.  Use  2^  dozen  large  macaroons 
and  I  lb.  nuts.     This  makes  about  i  gallon. 

Mrs.  Geo.  Stephens. 


142  p.  E.  0.  COOK  BOOK 

PINEAPPLE  CAKE 

Cream  in  warm  skillet  i  cup  brown  sugar  and  ^  cup  but- 
ter. Drain  i  small  can  of  pineapple  and  place  it  over  the 
sugar  in  skillet.  Mix  any  good  sponge  cake  batter  and 
spread  it  over  the  pineapple  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven.  Serve 
plain  or  with  whipped  cream  or  any  good  pudding  sauce. 

Mrs.  D.  B.  McGehee. 

SUET  PUDDING  SAUCE 

Cream  2  cups  sugar,  i  cup  butter  and  yolks  of  5  eggs 
together  well,  then  add  2  tablespoons  vinegar  and  put  in 
double  boiler  and  cook  slowly  45  minutes  or  i  hour,  then  add 
the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs  and  2  teaspoons  of  lemon 
extract. 

One  cup  milk  may  be  added  if  desired. 

Mrs.  J.  B.  Blackman. 


FROZEN  DESSERTS 

APRICOT  SHERBET 

Run  through  sieve:  i  Can  apricots,  3  or  4  lemons  and  3 
or  4  oranges;  boil  i  quart  sugar  in  i  quart  water.  Add 
beaten  whites  of  2  eggs  and  when  partly  frozen  add  i  pint 
of  cream.     This  makes  i  gallon.         Mrs.  H.  P.  Barnes. 

CRANBERRY  ICE 

2  Quarts  of  cranberries  cooked  and  put  through  the 
colander.  Juice  2  lemons  and  4  oranges.  Enough  water 
to  make  3  quarts,  add  sugar  to  taste,  whites  2  eggs  beaten 
stiff  and  put  in  when  nearly  frozen.    Mrs.  R.  F.  Brown. 

FIVE  FROZEN  THREES 

Juice  of  3  oranges,  3  lemons,  3  bananas,  3  cups  sugar 
and  3  cups  water.  Make  syrup  of  sugar  and  water  and  let 
cool.     Put  bananas  through  sieve.     Use  the  grated  rind  of 

1  orange.     Add  enough  water  to  make  i  gallon. 

Mrs.  D.  B.  Harvey. 

GRAPE  SHERBET 
Make  a  syrup  of  J  pint  sugar  and  i  pint  water.     When 
cool  add  I  pint  grape  juice,  i  tablespoon  each  orange  and 
lemon  juice.     When  partly  frozen  add  the  beaten  whites  of 

2  eggs.  Mrs.  D.  A.  Lehman. 

ICE  CREAM 

5  £ggs,  I  pint  sugar,  ij  pints  milk.  Make  into  a  thick 
custard  in  double  boiler,  strain  through  coarse  cloth,  add  i 
quart  cream,  whipped,  flavor  to  taste. 

Mrs.  Grace  M.  Baker. 

MILK  SHERBET 

I  Quart  sweet  milk,  2  cups  sugar,  juice  2  lemons  and  2 
oranges.  Dissolve  sugar  in  milk  and  half  freeze,  add  juices 
and  finish.  Pack  well  and  let  stand  2  hours.  Makes  | 
gallon.  Mrs.  G.  B.  Rice. 


144  P'  E.  0.  COOK  BOOK 

MAPLE  NUT  ICE  CREAM 
I  Cup  maple  syrup,  ^  cup  sugar,  2^  cups  milk,  3  eggs 
well  beaten,  i  cup  nuts  (chopped  fine),  i^  cups  heavy  cream. 
Mix  thoroughly  and  freeze  in  3  parts  ice  to  i  of  salt. 

Mrs.  C.  E.  Combe. 

ORANGE  SHERBET 

3  Oranges,  i  lemon,  grated  rind  and  juice  of  each.  Dis- 
solve 2^  cups  sugar  in  the  juice.  Beat  i  egg  and  i  pint 
cream,  add  i  quart  milk,  mix  and  freeze. 

Mrs.  M.  S.  Coleman. 

PINEAPPLE  SHERBET 

I  gallon  water,  3  cups  sugar,  7  tablespoons  flour,  juice 
4  or  5  lemons,  i  large  can  sliced  pineapple.  Mix  flour  and 
sugar  thoroughly,  add  to  water  and  boil  until  done.  Cool 
and  add  pineapple  cut  very  fine,  mixed  with  lemon  and  pine- 
apple juices.     Freeze  and  pack.        Mrs.  Will  Ferrell. 

FRUIT  MOUSSE 

Sprinkle  any  fruit  with  sugar  and  let  stand  until  sugar  is 
dissolved  and  i  pint  of  juice  is  drawn  off^.  Mash  and  strain. 
Soak  I  box  gelatine  in  |  cup  cold  water  20  minutes.  Pack 
mold  in  ice  and  salt,  whip  i  pint  cream.  Dissolve  gelatine 
in  I  cup  boiling  water  and  strain  into  juice.  Set  all  in  a 
pan  of  ice,  stir  constantly  and  as  it  begins  to  thicken  stir  in 
whipped  cream.  When  well  mixed  pour  into  molds,  cover 
and  let  stand  3  hours.  Mrs.  D.  A.  Lehman. 

MAPLE  MOUSSE 

Beat  yolks  4  eggs  and  pour  over  them  ^  cup  hot  maple 
syrup.  Let  cook  a  little  and  after  cooling  beat  with  an  egg 
beater  until  double  in  bulk.  In  the  meantime  whip  i  pint 
cream  and  fold  into  the  other  mixture  and  pack  in  freezer. 

Mrs.  M.  S.  Coleman. 

STRAWBERRY  MOUSSE 

I  Cup  well  mashed  strawberries,  i  cup  granulated  sugar, 
white  I  egg.     Beat  all  together  until  it  stands,  then  chill. 

Mrs.  Fred  Baumer. 


FROZEN  DESSERTS  145 

HOT  CHOCOLATE  FOR  ICE  CREAM 

Let  2^  cups  sugar  and  3^  cups  water  boil  5  minutes, 
moisten  2  tablespoons  cornstarch  and  stir  into  boiling  syrup 
and  cook  2  or  3  minutes.  Melt  5  squares  Baker's  chocolate, 
grated,  by  pouring  into  the  hot  syrup  and  put  on  the  back 
of  the  stove,  where  it  will  keep  hot  but  not  cook.  Pour 
over  cream  just  before  serving.  Mrs.  D.  B.  Harvev. 

MAPLENUT  BLANC-MANGE 

I  quart  sweet  milk  (cream  taken  off). 
I  egg  well  beaten. 
Caramelize  f  cup  white  sugar. 

\  cup  white  sugar. 

J  cup  cornstarch. 

\  teaspoon  salt. 
Mix  dry  ingredients  and  dissolve  in  little  milk.  Put  all 
together  in  double  boiler  and  stir  constantly  till  begins  to 
thicken,  cook  45  minutes.  Add  i  cup  black  walnut  meats 
when  you  take  from  fire.  Chill  and  serve  with  whipped 
cream. 


146  p.  E.  0.  COOK  BOOK 

CAKES 

CAKE  HINTS 

Rich  cakes  need  plenty  of  beating  to  fill  the  batter  with 
air  and  make  it  light,  but  cakes  that  are  mostly  of  beaten 
eggs,  angel  food  and  sponge,  must  be  treated  very  lightly  or 
the  air  held  by  the  eggs  will  be  liberated  and  the  cake  made 
tough. 

Cakes  are  guaranteed  not  to  stick  in  tins  that  have  had 
flour  sprinkled  over  them  after  greasing  thoroughly.  This 
also  improves  the  lower  crust. 

Skimp  the  milk  measure  a  little,  beat  a  little  hot  water 
in  just  before  making  and  notice  improvement. 

Too  many  eggs  harm,  rather  than  help  many  cakes,  by 
making  them  seem  solid. 

Cake  must  be  baked  till  done,  determine  by  testing  with 
clean  broom  splint;  but  to  leave  it  in  the  oven  longer  is  to 
shrink  and  toughen  it. 

ANGEL  FOOD 

I  Cup  egg  whites  (9  to  11),  i  level  teaspoon  cream  of 
tartar  mixed  with  i  cup  Swans  Down  flour,  i^cups  fine  gran- 
ulated sugar  (flour  and  sugar  sifted  5  times  before  measur- 
ing), \  teaspoon  salt,  i  teaspoon  vanilla,  J  teaspoon  almopd 
flavoring.  Beat  eggs  until  stiff  but  not  too  dry,  acid  salt, 
fold  in  sugar  i  tablespoon  at  a  time,  add  flavoring  and  fold 
in  flour  same  as  sugar.  Put  in  ungreased  pan  and  bake  50 
to  60  minutes.  Mrs.  D.  A.  Lehman. 

ANGEL  FOOD 

I  Cup  egg  whites,  i\  cups  sugar,  i  level  cup  flour  sifted  3 
times,  I  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar,  i  teaspoon  flavoring,  a 
pinch  salt.  Beat  eggs  and  salt  until  eggs  are  foamy,  add 
cream  of  tartar  and  beat  until  stiff.  Add  sugar,  flavoring 
and  flour,  fold  in  gently  with  mixing  spoon.  Bake  20  to  25 
minutes. 

For  larger  cake  ij  cups  egg  whites,  i^  cups  sugar  and  a 


CAKES  147 

rounded  cup  flour,  same  amount  of  salt,  cream  of  tartar  and 
flavoring.     Mix  as  in  first  and  bake  30  minutes. 

Mrs.  Warner  Bramlet. 

ANGEL  FOOD 

I  Cup  Swans  Down  flour  sifted  7  times,  i|  cups  sugar 
sifted  7  times,  whites  1 1  eggs  beaten  stiffs,  i  teaspoon  cream 
of  tartar,  a  pinch  salt  and  i  teaspoon  vanilla.  Beat  the 
whites  very  stiff,  adding  cream  of  tartar  as  soon  as  eggs 
begin  to  froth,  then  add  the  sugar  gradually,  then  the  salt, 
then  fold  in  the  flour  and  add  the  vanilla.  Bake  i  hour  in 
slow  oven.  Mrs.  C.  F.  Elder. 

ANGEL  FOOD 

Whites  of  8  large  or  9  medium  eggs,  i\  cups  granulated 
sugar,  I  cup  Swans  Down  cake  flour,  ^  teaspoon  cream  of 
tartar,  a  pint  salt  added  to  eggs  before  beating,  flavor  to 
taste.  Sift,  measure  and  set  aside  sugar  and  flour,  whip 
eggs  to  foam,  add  cream  of  tartar  and  whip  until  very  stiff, 
then  fold  in  sugar,  flavor  and  add  flour  and  fold  in  lightly 
through.  Put  in  a  moderate  oven  at  once.  Will  bake  in 
about  25  minutes.  Should  not  take  longer,  as  baking  too 
long  dries  out  moisture  and  makes  cake  tough  and  dry. 
When  it  is  done  it  begins  to  shrink;  let  shrink  back  to  level 
of  pan,  take  out  and  invert  immediately,  rest  on  center  tube 
and  let  hang  until  perfectly  cold,  then  cut  cake  loose  from 
around  sides  and  center  tube.         Mrs.  W^  J.  Blackard. 

ANGEL  FOOD 
Beat  to  a  stiff  froth  with  a  pinch  of  salt  the  whites  of  1 1 
eggs,  mix  in  gradually  a  cup  and  a  half  powdered  sugar, 
then  add  a  cup  of  flour  sifted  twice  with  a  teaspoon  of  cream 
of  tartar.  Mix  smooth  and  add  the  strained  juice  of  half  a 
lemon.  Put  into  a  smooth  ungreased  pan.  Bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  for  J  hour.  Take  up  and  turn  the  pan  upside 
down  on  a  cloth  and  let  it  stand  until  the  cake  falls  out. 

Mabel  Dale. 
ANGEL  FOOD 
1 1  Cups  sugar,  sifted  7  times,  i  scant  cup  Swans  Down 


148  p.  E.  0.  COOK  BOOK 

flour  sifted  7  times.  After  the  third  time  measure  again. 
The  whites  of  11  or  12  eggs,  beaten  stiff  but  not  dry,  mix  | 
teaspoon  (level)  cream  of  tartar  with  eggs  after  they  have 
been  beaten  to  a  froth,  then  fold  in  sugar,  add  i  teaspoon 
flavoring  and  lastly  fold  in  flour.  Bake  in  a  very  slow  oven 
tor  I  hour.  Do  not  open  oven  for  first  15  minutes.  Have 
oven  real  cool  at  first  then  increase  heat  the  last  half  hour 
very  slowly.  Mrs.  J.  B.  Hetherington,  Jr. 

ANGEL  FOOD 

I  Tumbler  of  flour  (scant),  i  tumbler  sugar  (heaping), 
whites  12  eggs,  pinch  salt  in  eggs,  f  teaspoon  cream  of  tar- 
tar. Sift  flour  and  sugar  separately  7  times.  When  eggs 
are  half  beaten  add  cream  of  tartar.  Fold  in  sugar  then  fold 
in  flour,  i  tea^|^)(ir^3jjq^^^^voring. 

Mrs.  Margaret  Hixson. 


ANGEI    ORANGE  CAKE 


1  Cup  egg  whites,  i|  cups  sugar,  i  cup  Swans  Down  four, 
I  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar,  flavoring.  Sift  flour  before 
measuring,  then  sift  three  times.  Beat  egg  whites  until 
frothy  and  add  cream  of  tartar  and  beat  until  they  will  stand 
of  their  own  weight.  Fold  in  sugar  quickly,  flavor,  fold  in 
flour  and  bake  in  an  ungreased  pan.  -When  cold  spread  the 
following  orange  filling: 

Orange  Filling:  i  Cup  sugar,  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  ^ 
cup  of  flour,  2  tablespoons  butter,  3  egg  yolks,  |  teaspoon 
salt  and  i  cup  orange  juice.  Mix  sugar,  flour,  salt  and  fruit 
juice  and  cook  in  double  boiler,  stirring  until  thick.  Add 
buLter  and  egg  yolks  well  beaten  and  cook  2  minutes  longer. 
Chopped  almonds  improve  this  filling.  Ruby  Rice. 

WHITE  CAKE 

2  Cups  sugar,  ^  cup  butter,  5  egg  whites,  3  cups  flour,  i 
cup  sweet  milk,  3  teaspoons  baking  powder,  i  teaspoon 
vanilla.     Mix,  beat  well  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Mrs.  W.  T.  Skaggs. 


CAKES  149 

WHITE  CAKE 

Whites  of  5  eggs,  i^  cups  sugar,  3  cups  flour  measured 
before  sifting,  i  cup  milk,  f  cup  butter  (scant),  i  teaspoon 
soda  and  2  teaspoons  cream  of  tartar.     Makes  3  large  layers. 

Mrs.  Art  "*^r  Clark. 

WHITE  LAYER  CAKE 

2  Cups  sugar,  i  cup  butter,  4  to  8  whites  of  eggs,  3  cups 
flour,  I  heaping  teaspoon  baking  powder,  i  cup  sweet  milk, 
I  teaspoon  flavoring.     Makes  3  good  layers. 

Mrs.  J.  B.  Hetherinton,  Jr. 

WHITE  CAKE 

i^  Cups  sugar,  i^  cups  flour,  ^  cup  cornstarch,  |  cup 
milk,  I  cup  butter,  whites  6  eggs,  i  teaspoon  baking  powder, 
flavor.     Mix  in  niC^'  ^''-         ■        Mrs.  Roy  L.  Seright. 

'^^'<-  Wltli  \ 

FEATHE 

f  Cup  butter,  2  cups  sugar,  i  cup  ^Aveeu  milk,  3  cups 
sifted  flour,  sifted  with  3  teaspoons  baking  powder,  whites  8 
eggs,  \  teaspoon  almond  extract  and  \  teaspoon  vanilla. 
Cream  butter  and  sugar,  and  add  i  at  a  time  the  unbeaten 
egg  whites  and  beat  mixture  vigorously  after  each  white  is 
added.  Add  the  flour  and  milk  alternately  and  give  a 
thorough  beating  when  all  has  been  added.  Bake  in  layers 
in  a  moderate  oven.  Mrs.  C.  E.  Combe. 

WHITE  CAKE 

I  Cup  butter,  2  cups  sugar,  i  cup  sweet  milk,  3  cups 
flour,  whites  5  eggs,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder.  Cream 
butter  and  sugar  until  very  flufl^y,  pour  milk  in,  stirring 
while  it  is  being  poured,  add  baking  powder  to  flour  and  sift 
5  times.     Beat  whites  of  eggs  to  stiffs  froth  and  add  last. 

Filling:  2  Cups  sugar  and  i  cup  water,  cook  until  it 
threads.  Remove  from  stove  and  pour  over  the  beaten 
whites  of  2  eggs  and  flavor.  Mrs.  Harry  Barter. 

WHITE  LAYER  CAKE 

\  Cup  butter,  i  cup  sugar,  \  cup  milk,  2  scant  cups  flour, 
i^  teaspoons  Calumet  baking  powder,  whites  4  eggs,  \  tea- 


I50  P.  E.  0.  COOK  BOOK 

spoon  of  vanilla.  These  measures  are  level,  do  not  heap. 
Mix  flour  and  baking  powder,  cream  butter  and  sugar,  add 
milk  and  flour  alternately,  then  vanilla  and  beaten  whites. 
Bake  in  2  laye-  s  in  hot  oven.     Use  any  desired  filling. 

^"1^  Mrs.  Grace  Baker. 

-     GOLD  AND  WHITE  CAKE 
White  part:    i  Cup  sugar,  J  cup  shortening  (Crisco),  2 
cups  flour,  pinch  salt,  3  teaspoons  baking  powder,  3  egg 
whites,  f  cup  milk,  or  water  (water  preferred,  more  tender), 
flavoring. 

Yellow  part:  Use  the  same  ingredients  as  above,  only 
use  a  little  less  shortening  (rake  off  a  little)  and  add  the 
yolks  of  3  eggs.  Mix  as  any  other  cake.  Bake  i  yellow 
layer  and  i  white  one.  Use  choc'^^^i^'cin*^  as  follows:  i 
Cup  sugar,  J  cup  mi]k.2^;;§s|^.^^  vablespoons  cocoa,  2  table- 
spoons butter  and  2  teaspoons  vanilla. 

Mrs.  Otto  Baker. 

WHITE  LATER  CAKE 

.  .  2  Cups  sugar,  i  scant  cup  butter,  i  cup  swee^  milk,  3 
cups  Aour,  3  level  teaspoons  baking  powder,  i  teaspoon 
vanilla  and  whites  8  eggs.  Mix,  bake  and  put  together 
with  any  preferred  filling.  Mrs.  T.  O.  Elliot. 

P.  E.  O.  CAKE 

I  Scant  cup  sugar,  ^  cup  butter.  Put  whites  2  eggs  in  a 
cup  and  fill  the  cup  with  sweet  milk,  add  to  creamed  butter 
and  sugar  2  teaspoons  baking  powder  sifted  with  2  cups 
flour,  I  teaspoon  vanilla.  Bake  in  layers.  Filling:  Take 
the  yolks  of  2  eggs,  add  to  i  cup  powdered  sugar,  i  teaspoon 
vanilla.     Beat  well  and  put  between  layers. 

Mrs.  Fred  Baumer. 

W«ITE  CAKE 

I  I  Cup  butter,  2  cups  sugar,  i  cup  sweet  milk,  whites  4 
eggs,  3  cups  flour,  i|  teaspoons  baking  powder,  flavoring. 
Cream  butter  and  sugar  and  add  milk  and  white  of  i  egg; 
beat  2  or  3  minutes,  then  add  i  cup  flour  and  i  egg  white 
and  beat  as  be  '       •    continue  adding  flour  and  egg  until  3 


CAKES  151 

cups  of  flour  and  4  eggs  have  been  used.  Do  not  beat  eggs 
first.  x-\dd  baking  powder  in  the  last  cup  of  flour.  Bake  in 
2  layers  and  put  together  with  icing. 

Mrs.  O.  ^'  \RRAKE.R. 

DREAM  CAKE 

^  Cup  butter,  if  cups  sugar,  i  cup  sweet  milk,  if  cups 
flour,  whites  5  eggs,  3  teaspoons  baking  powder.  Cream  the 
butter,  adding  the  sugar  a  little  at  a  time  until  the  whole  is 
light  and  flufl^y.  Sift  the  flour  3  times,  then  measure  and 
sift  with  the  baking  powder,  adding  this  to  the  sugar  and 
butter,  alternating  with  the  milk,  then  add  the  stifiiy  beaten 
whites  of  the  eggs.  Beat  until  smooth  and  bake  in  3  layers. 
The  2  lower  layers  are  frosted  with  confectioner's  sugar  and 
the  white  of  an  egg;  the  frosting  for  the  bottom  layer  is 
flavored  with  lemon,  the  next  with  vanilla  and  the  top  layer 
is  thickly  covered  wrth  cocoanu-t  and  is  flavored  delicately 
with  a  few  drops  of  rose  water.  Mrs.  Ella  Marsh. 

^        LADY  BALTIMORE  CAKE 

I  Cup  butter,  2  cups  powdered  sugar,  i  cup  milk,  juicc^i 
lemon,  whites  6  eggs,  4  cups  flour,  2  teaspoons  baking  pow- 
der. Rub  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream  and  add  the 
milk;  when  well  mixed,  stir  in  the  juice  of  a  lemon  and  whip 
very  light;  stir  in  alternately  the  stiff'ened  whites  of  eggs 
and  flour  sifted  with  the  baking  powder. 

Filling:  Boil  3  cups  granulated  sugar  with  ^  cup  water 
until  it  spins  a  thread.  Pour  over  the  beaten  whites  of  3 
eggs  and  whip  until  you  have  a  thick  cream,  then  stir  in 
gradually  a  cup  of  minced  raisins  and  chopped  pecans,  with 
5  figs  that  have  been  soaked  soft  in  lukewarm  water,  then 
dried  and  minced.  Spread  between  layers  and  frost  on 
top. — Curtis  Cook  Book. 

WHITE  WASHINGTON  CAKE 

f  Cup  butter,  2  level  cups  sugar,  6  egg  whites,  3  cups 
of  flour,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  i  cup  milk,  \  tea- 
spoon salt  and  flavoring.  Cream  butter  and  sugar,  beat 
whites  of  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  them  to  butter  and  sugar 


152  p.  E.O.  COOK  BOOK 

and  beat  well,  then  sift  In  flour,  salt  and  baking  powder. 
Add  milk  and  ^  teaspoon  vanilla  and  |  teaspoon  lemon. 
Divide  into  2  or  3  buttered  and  floured  cake  tins  and  bake 
in  a  moderate  oven  20  to  25  minutes. 

Filling:  Put  i|  cups  milk  into  a  saucepan,  with  ^  cup 
sugar  and  2  tablespoons  butter,  and  bring  to  a  boiling  point. 
Blend  a  tablespoon  flour  with  ^  cup  milk,  add  3  egg  yolks 
and  stir  until  thickened,  then  add  i  teaspoon  vanilla,  i  cup 
nut  meats,  ^  cup  raisins  and  put  between  layers.  If  only  2 
layers,  half  of  recipe  will  be  plenty.  Cover  top  with  boiled 
frosting.  Mrs.  M.  S.  Coleman. 

WHITE  CAKE 

2  Scant  cups  sugar,  ^  cup  butter  or  Crisco  (if  Crisco  is 
used  add  a  pinch  of  salt),  i  cup  sweet  milk,  3  cups  flour,  2 
teaspoons  baking  powder,  whites  5  eggs,  ^  teaspoon  lemon 
flavoring.  Minnie  Welch. 

DELICATE  CAKE 

J  Cup  butter,  i  cup  sugar,  J  cup  cold  water,  pinch  salt,  2 
cups  flour,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  whites  4  eggs. 
Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  water  slowly  with  2  table- 
spoons of  flour.  Add  remainder  of  flour  sifted  with  the 
baking  powder.     Fold  in  whites  of  eggs,  flavor. 

Ruby  Rice. 
SILVER  CAKE 
Th^  whites  of  8  eggs,  2  cups  sugar,  i  cup  butter,  f  cup 
milk',  j'  cups  flour,  i  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar  and  i  of  soda. 
Flavor  with  rose  or  vanilla.     Mix  and  bake. 

Mrs.  W^oodrow  Wilson. 

WHITE  CAKE 

i^  Cups  white  sugar,  |  cup  butter,  i  cup  milk,  3  cups 
sifted  flour,  3  teaspoons  baking  powder,  i  teaspoon  flavor- 
ing, whites  3  eggs.  Cream  butter  and  sugar  thoroughly, 
sift  baking  powder  with  flour  twice,  add  milk  and  flour 
alternately  to  butter  and  sugar,  beat  thoroughly,  then  add 
flavoring  and  stifly  beaten  whites.     Bake  in  moderate  oven. 

Mrs.  J.  H.  Eisenhower. 


CAKES  153 

SNOWFLAKE  CAKE 

Whites  of  4  eggs,  ^  cup  butter,  i|  cups  sugar,  |  cup  milk, 
1  cups  pastry  flour  sifted  4  times  with  2^  level  teaspoons  of 
baking  powder,  i  scant  teaspoon  lemon  extract.  Cream 
butter,  add  sugar  and  beat;  add  a  little  of  the  flour,  then 
milk  and  flour  alternately  until  all  is  used.  Beat  5  minutes 
with  an  upward  stroke  and  always  in  one  direction.  Add 
flavoring  and  stifliy  beaten  whites,  cutting  them  in  lightly. 
Bake  in  moderate  oven.  Mrs.  Clarence  Bonnell. 

WHITE  CAKE 

2  Cups  sugar,  J  cup  butter,  i  cup  milk,  3  cups  flour,  3 
teaspoons  baking  powder,  4  egg  whites,  i  teaspoon  flavoring. 
Cream  butter  and  sugar,  adding  1  tablespoons  of  the  milk 
to  make  creaming  easy,  sift  flour  and  baking  powder  several 
times,  adding  this  with  the  milk  to  butter  and  sugar,  alter- 
nating.    Beat  well.     Flavor  and  fold  in  egg  whites. 

Ruby  Rice. 

ARCHANGEL  CAKE 

«  Beat  the  whites  of  8  eggs  to  a  stiff"  fi-oth,  sift  2  cups  of 
pulverized  sugar  and  beat  with  i  cup  of  butter  until  it  is 
light  and  creamy;  to  this  add  2  cups  of  flour  that  has  been 
sifted  with  a  teaspoon  of  baking  powder,  \  teaspoon  of  salt, 
continuing  to  beat  as  the  flour  is  added.  .Add  a  teaspoon 
of  lemon  extract  and  last  of  all  add  the  stiffly  beaten  wnites. 
Beat  all  together  very  thoroughly  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Kate  Harris. 

WHITE  LOAF  CAKE 

i\  Cups  sugar,  ^  cup  butter,  i  cup  sweet  milk,  3  cups 
flour,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  |  teaspoon  vanilla  ahd  5 
egg  whites.  Mrs.  Julian  B^ashears. 

SNOW  CAKE 

Cream  ^  cup  butter  and  i  cup  sugar,  add  alternately  2 

cups  flour  and  \  cup  sweet  milk.     Sift  2  teaspoons  baking 

powder  in  flour  and  add  the  stifliy  beaten  whites  of  4  eggs. 

Bake  in  i  loaf.  Mrs.  A.  A.  Lehman. 

(11) 


154  P-  E.  0.  COOK  BOOK 

WHITE  LOAF  CAKE 

I  Cup  butter,  2  cups  sugar,  i  cup  sweet  milk,  3  cups 
flour,  3  lev^l  teaspoons  baking  powder,  i  teaspoon  vanilla 
and  whites  of  8  eggs.  Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  add  the 
milk,  then  the  flour  and  baking  powder  sifted  together,  then 
vanilla  and  lastly  the  egg  whites  beaten  stiffs.  Bake  in  a 
loaf.  Mrs.  A.  E.  Somers. 

DOLLY  VARDEN  CAKE 

Whites  of  3  eggs,  i|  cups  powdered  sugar,  \  cup  butter, 
2  cups  flour  with  ij  teaspoons  baking  powder.  Cream 
butter  and  sugar,  add  stiflly  beaten  whites  of  eggs,  mix  flour 
and  baking  powder  and  lastly  the  milk  and  flavoring.  Is 
especially  good  with  fresh  fruits.     Mrs.  M.  S.  Coleman. 

WHITE  LOAF  CAKE 

White  of  8  eggs,  2J  cups  of  pastry  flour,  f  cup  butter, 
^  cup  water,  i\  cups  granulated  sugar,  2  heaping  teaspoons 
baking  powder.  Cream  butter  and  sugar  (warm  sugar  very 
slightly  if  butter  is  cold;  never  warm  butter),  pour  water  on 
top  of  butter  and  sugar,  pour  slightly  whipped  whites  on 
top  of  water  (do  not  stir  water  in  butter  and  sugar),  then 
add  pastry  flour  and  baking  powder  that  has  been  sifted 
together  3  times;  add  extract,  beat  hard  until  fine  as  velvet. 
Pour  into  ungreased  pan,  put  in  slow  oven,  let  it  raise  to  top 
of  pan,  then  increase  Jieat  and  finish  baking  as  rapidly  as 
possible  without  burning.  W^atch  oven  as  for  Angel  Cake, 
cool  oven  in  same  manner;  when  cake  is  done  it  will  feel  firm 
under  finger  tip  touch;  do  not  bake  too  dry  It  should  stay 
in  pan  same  as  Angel  Cake.     Cut  out  of  pan  when  cold. 

Igleheart. 

MARBLE  CAKE 

White  Part:  Mix  together  2  cups  flour,  i  cup  sugar  and 
if  teaspoons  baking  powder,  add  h  cup  sweet  milk  and  \  cup 
soft  butter  and  whites  2  eggs.     Beat  hard  for  3  minutes. 

Dark  Part:  Same  as  white  except  mix  J  teaspoon  nut- 
meg, I  teaspoon  cinnamon  and  \  teaspoon  cloves  with  the 


CAKES  155 

dry  ingredients  and  use  the  egg  yolks  instead  of  the  whites. 
Bake  in  loaf,  alternating  light  and  dark. 

Mrs.  Harry  Woolcott. 

WHITE  OR  CHOCOLATE  CAKE  (Never  Fails) 
^  Cup  butter,  i  cup  sugar,  2  cups  cake  flour,  3  teaspoons 
baking  powder,  3  egg  whites,  ^  cup  milk,  \  teaspoon  flavor- 
ing. Double  recipe  for  larger  cake.  For  Marble  Cake 
divide  the  dough  and  to  one-half  add  2  squares  of  chocolate, 
\  teaspoon  soda,  scant  teaspoon  cinnamon  and  \  teaspoon 
cloves.     Bake  in  loaf,  alternating  light  and  dark. 

Mrs.  G.  G.  Mugge. 

SOUR  MILK  CAKE 

I  Heaping  cup  sugar,  |  cup  butter  and  lard  mixed,  i  egg, 
I  cup  sour  milk,  ^  teaspoon  soda,  a  teaspoon  lemon  and  a 
teaspoon  vanilla,  flour  to  make  a  stifle  batter,  add  \  cup 
chopped  nuts  to  flour  before  mixing.     Bake  in  loaf. 

Mrs.  Fred  Baumer. 

CUP  CAKE 

Put  2  egg  whites  in  a  cup  and  half  fill  with  butter  which 
has  been  creamed.  Finish  filling  with  milk,  add  i  cup 
sugar.  Sift  together  2^  cups  flour  and  2  heaping  teaspoons 
baking  powder,  add  to  the  above;  flavor,  i  Whole  egg 
may  be  used  in  place  of  the  2  whites.     Beat  5  minutes. 

Ruby  Rice. 
GOOD  CAKE 
I  Tablespoon  butcci,  i  cup  sugar  (heaping),  i  cup  cold 
water,  2  cups  flour,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  2  egg  whites 
beaten  stiff  (or  i  whole  egg).     Beat  and  bake  40  minutes  in 
lukewarm  oven,  in  greased,  floured  pan. 

Mrs.  W^  V.  Rath  bone. 

VINEGAR  CAKE 

4  Eggs,  I  cup  sugar,  i  cup  flour,  i  tablespoon  vinegar, 
flavoring.  Beat  egg  yolks  un  '  very  light,  then  add  vine- 
gar. Beat  whites  and  add  sugar  to  them,  mix  yolks  and 
whites  together,  add  flour,  flavoring  and  bake. 

■    Mrs.  a.  a.  Lehman. 


156  P.  E.  0.  COOK  BOOK 

GOLDEN  CREAM  CAKE 

I  Cup  sugar,  ^  cup  butter,  whites  3  eggs,  f  cup  milk,  | 
teaspoon  baking  powder,  i^  cups  flour.  Flavor  with  van- 
illa. Cream  butter  and  sugar  thoroughly,  then  add  milk, 
flour  and  eggs  beaten  well. 

Ice  Cream  Filling:  2  Cups  sugar,  f  cup  water;  let  boil 
until  it  threads,  beat  this  into  the  whites  of  1  well-beaten 
eggs.     Flavor  with  vanilla.  Mrs.  W.  V.  McAdoo. 

GOLD  CAKE 

Yolks  of  8  eggs,  i  cup  sugar,  |  cup  butter,  ^  cup  sweet 
milk,  and  i^  cups  flour,  i  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar,  \  tea- 
spoon soda.     Flavor  with  lemon. 

Mrs.  Woodrow  Wilson. 

HONEY  CAKE 

i^  Cups  honey,  |  cup  butter,  3  eggs,  5  cups  flour,  2  tea- 
spoons cinnamon,  ^  teaspoon  salt,  i\  teaspoons  soda,  2 
tablespoons  orange  juice.  Add  nuts  and  raisins  it  desired. 
Bake  in  a  loaf  in  a  slow  oven.  Mrs.  C.  E.  Combe. 

SUNSHINE  CAKE 

Whites  of  7  eggs  and  yolks  of  5,  i  cup  sugar,  f  cup  flour, 
I  level  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar,  i  teaspoon  vanilla  and  a 
pinch  of  salt.  Sift  sugar  and  flovir  twice  before  measuring. 
Beat  yolks  and  whites  separately,  yolks  first,  then  whites  in 
the  mixing  bowl.  Put  a  pinch  of  salt  in  whites  when  beat- 
ing is  begun,  when  half  beaten  add  cream  of  tartar,  when 
whites  are  stiff,  add  sugar  slowly,  then  beaten  yolks,  then 
flour  and  flavoring.     Bake  i  hour  in  slow  oven. 

Mrs.  D.  B.  Harvey. 

POUND  CAKE 

Cream  ^  cup  butter  (scant)  and  i^  cups  pastry  flour 
(sifted  once).  Beat  the  yolks  of  5  eggs  until  thick  and  lemon 
colored  and  add  i^  cups  powdered  sugar  gradually  while 
beating  constantly.  Combine  the  mixtures  and  add  the 
whites  of  5  eggs  beaten  until  stiff,  and  i  teaspoon  vanilla. 
Sift  over  i  teaspoon  baking  powder  and  beat  thoroughly. 


CAKES  157 

Turn  into  a  buttered  and  floured  shallow  square  pan  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  Remove  from  pan  and  cut  in 
squares.  Cover  with  frosting  and  garnish  with  nut  meats, 
shredded  cocoanut,  glaced  cherries,  candied  violets,  or 
candied  rose  leaves.  Mrs.  Ella  Marsh. 

LOAF  CAKE 

2  Cups  sugar,  8  egg  whites  or  4  whole  eggs,  i  cup  butter, 
I  cup  milk,  i\  cups  flour  and  \  cup  cornstarch  or  3  cups 
pastry  flour,  3  teaspoons  baking  powder.     Flavor  to  taste. 

Mrs.  C.  E.  Combe. 

WHITE  FRUIT  CAKE 

I  Cup  butter,  2  cups  sugar,  i  cup  sweet  milk,  2^  cups 
flour,  whites  of  7  eggs,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder.  Mix 
and  add  i  pound  each  of  seeded  raisins,  figs,  blanched  al- 
monds, \  pound  citron,  all  chopped  fine;  i  cup  cocoanut. 
Mix  batter  well  before  adding  fruit.  Sift  a  little  flour  over 
fruit  berdre  adding.     Bake  slowly  2  hours. 

Mrs.  George  Morris. 

WHITE  FRUIT  CAKE 

Work  I  of  a  cup  of  butter  until  creamy,  add  gradually  2 
scant  cups  pastry  flour,  mixed  and  sifted  with  \  teaspoon  of 
soda;  then  add  |  teaspoon  lemon  juice.  Beat  the  whites  of 
6  eggs  until  stiff;  then  add  gradually  while  beating  con- 
stantly i\  cups  of  powdered  sugar;  combine  mixtures  and 
when  thoroughly  blended  add  |  cup  of  candied  cherries,  1 
cup  each  sliced  citron  and  blanched  almonds  shredded,  add 
I  teaspoon  almond  extract.  Turn  into  a  pan  and  bake  in 
a  moderate  oven  i  hour.  Kate  Harris. 

COFFEE  CAKE 

Sift  together  twice  i  cup  flour,  \  cup  sugar,  3  teaspoons 
baking  powder,  ^  teaspoon  salt,  |  teaspoon  cinnamon.  Mix 
to  soft  dough  with  4  tablespoons  melted  butter,  a  well- 
beaten  egg,  separate,  and  |  cup  sweet  milk.  Bake  a  in 
shallow  pan,  sprinkle  sugar  and  cinnamon  on  top. 

Mrs.  D.  a.  Lehman. 


158  P.  E.  0.  COOK  BOOK 

BOSTON  CREAM  PIE 

-3  cup  butter,  i  cup  sugar,  2  eggs,  J  cup  milk,  i^  cups 
flour  and  3  teaspoons  baking  powder.  Cream  butter  and 
sugar  and  add  well-beaten  eggs,  then  alternately  milk  and 
dry  ingredients  well  sifted.  Bake  in  2  layers  and  put 
together  with  the  following  English  Cream  Filling,  with 
whipped  cream  on  top. 

English  Cream  Filling:  i  Cup  sugar,  ^  cup  flour,  ^ 
teaspoon  salt,  2  eggs,  2  cups  milk  and  i  teaspoon  vanilla. 
Mix  dry  ingredients  and  milk  and  yolks  well  beaten,  cook 
in  double  boiler,  stirring  constantly  until  thick.  Remove 
from  fire  and  cool  and  fold  in  whites  and  flavor. 

Ruby  Rice. 

BERWICK  SPONGE  CAKE 

3  Eggs,  I J  cups  sugar,  J  cup  water,  2  cups  flour,  i  tea- 
spoon cream  of  tartar,  ^  teaspoon  soda,  flavor  with  lemon. 
Beat  eggs  separately,  add  sugar,  water  and  lemon  extract 
to  yolks  of  eggs,  then  flour  sifted  with  soda  and  cream  of 
tartar  and  whipped  whites.     Bake  in  a  loaf. 

Mrs.  G.  G.  Mi  gge. 

WHITE  SPONGE  CAKE 

Whites  of  5  eggs,  i  cup  flour,  i  cup  sugar,  i  teaspoon 
baking  powder^  i  teaspoon  lemon  extract. 

Kate  Harris. 
SPONGE  CAKE 

4  Eggs,  I  cup  flour,  I  cup  sugar,  ^  tablespoon  lemon 
juice,  a  pinch  salt.  Beat  egg  whites  until  stiff,  add  sugar, 
flour,  lemon  juice  and  salt  and  well-beaten  yolks.  Bake  in 
an  ungreased  pan.  Ruby  Rice. 

SPONGE  CAKE 
4  to  6  Eggs,  I  cup  sugar,  ^  teaspoon  salt,  i  tablespoon 
lemon  juice,  grated  rind  of  half  a  lemon,  and  i  cup  pastry 
flour.     Beat  well  and  bake.        Mary  Margaret  Clark. 

SMALL  CHOCOLATE  CAKE 

I  Cup  shortening,  i  cup  sugar,  i  egg  yolk,  2  squares 
chocolate,  §  cup  hot  water,  J  teaspoon  salt,  if  cups  pastry 


CAKES  159 

flour,  I J  teaspoons  baking  powder,  ^  teaspoon  soda,  another 
§  cup  hot  water.  Cook  and  stir  chocolate  and  ^  cup  hot 
water  about  3  minutes  until  thick  and  glossy.  Remove 
from  fire,  add  egg  yolk,  shortening,  sugar  and  salt.  Stir  in 
dry  ingredients,  sifted  together  and  second  ^  cup  boiling 
water  and  beat  until  smooth.  Use  white  of  egg  for  boiled 
icing.     Easy  to  make  and  extra  good. 

Grace  Lane  Raymond,  Sidney,  111. 

ALMA  GLUCK'S  CHOCOLATE  CAKE 

i^  Cups  sugar,  i  cup  butter,  5  eggs,  i^  cups  flour  sifted 
twice,  teaspoons  baking  powder,  2  ounces  grated  bitter 
chocolate,  \  teaspoon  pulverized  cofi^ee,  \  teaspoon  vanilla, 
J  cup  milk.  Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  add  the  egg  yolks 
and  cream  until  very  light;  then  add  the  chocolate,  melted, 
the  cofi^ee  and  vanilla  and  alternately  the  flour  mixed  with 
the  baking  powder,  and  the  milk  and  egg  whites  beaten  stiff. 
Bake  in  3  layers  in  a  moderate  oven.  Put  together  with 
whipped  cream  or  any  desired  filling. 

CHOCOLATE  CAKE 

I  Tablespoon  cocoa  (rounding),  i  tablespoon  lard,  i 
heaping  cup  sugar,  i  cup  sour  milk  or  cream  or  both,  i  level 
teaspoon  soda,  yolks  2  eggs,  i^  cups  flour  and  pinch  salt. 
Bake  in  loaf.  Mrs.  Roy  L.  Seright. 

MAHOGANY  CAKE 

I  Cup  butter  creamed  with  i^  cups  sugar,  i  cup  sweet 
milk,  with  full  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  it,  3  eggs,  2  scant 
cups  flour,  I  teaspoon  vanilla,  \  cup  cocoa  sifted  with  the 
flour.  Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  egg  yolks  and  crea.rn 
again,  add  milk  a  little  at  a  time,  then  add  flour  and  vanilla, 
then  whites  of  eggs  beaten  very  stiff".  Bake  in  3  layers  and 
put  together  with  Mocha  Icing. 

Mocha  Icing:  2  Cups  powdered  sugar  J  cup  cocoa,  i 
tablespoon  vanilla,  4  tablespoons  strong  coffee,  \  cup  butter. 
Cream  sugar  and  butter,  add  cocoa  and  cream  again,  then 
liquids  and  beat  until  perfectly  smooth. 

Mrs.  W.  V.  Rath  bone. 


i6o P.  E.  0.  \0K  BOOK 

BROWNSTONE  F^ONT  CAKE 

2  Cups  sugar,  f  cup  butter,  f  ci^chocolate,  the  yolks  of 
6  eggs,  I  cup  buttermilk,  i  level  teas|)Oon  soda,  i  teaspoon 
baking  powder  and  2^  cups  flour.  Melt  the  chocolate  with 
just  enough  water  to  soften.  Mrs.  G.  T.  Gaskins. 

DEVIL'S  FOOD 

2  Cups  sugar,  J  cup  butter,  ^  cup  grated  chocolate,  i  cup 
buttermilk,  i  teaspoon  soda,  2^  cups  flour,  i  teaspooii  bak- 
ing powder,  3  eggs  and  a  pinch  of  salt.     Flavor  with  vam^la. 

Mrs.  Julian  Brashears. 

DEVIL'S  FOOD 

Cream  |  cup  butter,  add  gradually  2  cups  sugar,  then  3 
eggs,  beating  well.  Melt  J  cup  grated  chocolate  in  f  cup 
boiling  water.  Dissolve  i  teaspoon  soda  in  f  cup  sour 
cream.  Add  3  cups  of  flour  alternately  with  the  liquids, 
beating  the  batter  thoroughly.  Bake  in  layers  or  large 
sheet.  Miss  Emma  Wright,  Home  Advisor. 

DEVIL'S  FOOD 

Cook  together  2  tablespoons  cocoa,  ^  cup  sweet  milk,  | 
cup  sugar,  2  egg  yolks,  let  cool  and  add  vanilla. 

Part  2:  i  Cup  butter,  i  cup  sugar,  2  egg  whites  and  i 
whole  egg  beaten  together,  i  teaspoon  soda  in  i  cup  cold 
coffee,  2^  cups  flour.     Add  custard  and  bake. 

Mrs.  Roy  L.  Seright. 

'     COCOA  FUDGE  CAKE 

1  Cup  sugar,  i  cup  butter,  J  cup  sweet  milk,  i|  cups 
flourj  2  eggs  and  i|  teaspoons  baking  powder.  Add  2 
squares  chocolate  or  i  tablespoon  cocoa,  |  teaspoon  vanilla, 
^  cup  nut  meats  and  ^  cup  raisins.  Use  with  caramel 
icing.  Mrs.  D.  A.  Lehman. 

DEVIL'S  FOOD 

2  Cups  brown  sugar,  |  cup  butter,  ,  cup  sour  milk,  i  tea- 
spoon soda,  3  cups  flour,  2  eggs,  J  cup  chocolate,  ^  cup  boil- 
ing water  and  ^  teaspoon  vanilla.  Cream  butter  and  sugar 
and  add  well  beaten  egg  yolks,  melt  chocolate  in  hot  water. 


CAKES  i6i 

sitt  flour  and  soda  together  and  add  this  alternately  with 
the  milk  to  the  above.     Fold  in  egg  whites. 

Ruby  Rice. 
QUALITY  CAKE 

•  Part  i  :  4I  Ounces  bitter  chocolate,  melted,  i  cup  brown 
sugar,  \  cup  milk. 

Part  2:  7  Tablespoons  butter,  i  cup  brown  sugar,  3  egg 
yolks,  2  cups  flour,  i  teaspoon  soda,  \  cup  sweet  milk. 

Combine  the  ingredients  of  part  i,  stirring  them  until 
smooth.  While  the  mixture  cools  prepare  part  2.  Cream 
the  butter  and  sugar,  beat  in.  the  egg  yolks  and  add  alter- 
nately the  milk  with  the  flour  and  soda  sifted  together.  Stir 
in  part  i  and  bake  in  2  layers  in  a  moderate  oven  for  3c 
minutes.     Put  together  with  white  frosting. 

Kate  Harris. 

MARBLE  FRONT  CAKE 

I  Cup  brown  sugar,  \  cup  butter,  ^  cup  milk,  3  eggs, 
yolks  of  all  and  whites  of  i  (reserve  other  2  whites  for  icing), 
2  cups  flour,  I  teaspoon  soda,  and  i  teaspoon  baking  powder. 

Part  2;  i  Cup  brown  sugar  and  \  cup  sweet  milk,  \  cup 
cocoa,  all  cooked  together  and  cooled,  then  add  to  part  i. 

Mocha  Filling:  Rub  into  2  tablespoons  melted  butter 
I  cup  powdered  sugar,  a  little  at  a  time,^2  tablespoons  warm 
coff'ee,  2  teaspoons  cocoa.     Spread. 

Mrs.  D.  A.*Lehman. 

BURNT  SUGAR  CAKE 

Brown  \  cup  sugar,  cream  i\  cups  sugar,  \  cup  buttei) 
add  I  cup  cold  water,  2^  cups  sifted  flour,  2  whole  eggs,  2 
teaspoons  baking  powder  and  \  cup  burnt  sugar.  Bake  in 
layers  and  put  together  with  burnt  sugar  filling. 

BuRXT  Sugar  Filling:   2  Cups  sugar,  \  cup  water,  2 
tablespoons  milk;  \  cup  burnt  sugar,  cook  until  thick. 

Bess  S.  Parish. 

BURNT  SUGAR  CAKE 

\  Cup  sugar  burned  and  melted,  add  i  cup  boiling  water, 
i\  cups  sugar,  J  cup  butter,  i  cup  milk,  3  cups  flour,  3  epgs, 


1 62  p.  E.O.  COOK  BOOK 


1 1  teaspoons  baking  powder  and  5  tablespoons  of  the  burnt 
sugar,  I  teaspoon  vanilla.  Use  the  rest  of  the  burnt  sugar 
in  the  filling.  Mrs.  Sam  Cape. 

CRUMB  CAKE 

3  Cups  flour,  3  teaspoons  baking  powder,  i  teflspoon  nut- 
meg, I J  cups  sugar,  f  cup  butter  and  3  eggs.  Milk  to  make 
a  stiff  batter.  Put  flour,  baking  powder,  butter,  nutmeg, 
and  sugar  together  (take  out  about  a  tablespoon  of  mixture 
for  the  top  of  the  cake),  add  eggs  to  mixture,  then  the  milk. 
Bake  in  a  loaf.  Put  the  tablespoon  of  mixture  on  cake 
before  baking.  Mrs.  Ferd  Baumer. 

APPLE  SAUCE  CAKE 

2  Cups  apple  sauce,  i  scant  cup  sugar  or  molasses  (if 
molasses  is  used  a  little  more  flour  is  needed),  3  cups  flour, 
3  scant  teaspoons  soda,  |  cup  shortening,  i  cup  nuts  and  i 
cup  raisins.  Mrs.  D.  B.  Harvey. 

APPLE  SAUCE  CAKE 

i^  Cups  sugar,  i  cup  butter,  2  eggs,  i|  cups  hot  apple 
sauce,  2  cups  flour,  i  teaspoon  cinnamon,  i  of  allspice  and  i 
of  soda,  I  cup  of  nuts  or  raisins  or  both.  Cream  butter  and 
sugar,  add  spices  and  cream,  add  beaten  eggs,  then  apple 
sauce  and  flour  with  soda.  Bake  in  large  pan  in  moderate 
oven.  Mrs.  W.  V.  Rathboxe. 

APPLE  CAKE 

3  Cups  flour,  I  scant  cup  sugar,  ^  cup  butter  and  lard 
mixed,  i  cup  sweet  milk,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder  and  a 
pinch  of  salt.  Put  in  a  shallow  pan,  peel  and  slice  apples, 
lay  on  top  of  mixture,  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  cinnamon  and 
tiny  bits  of  butter  and  bake.  Mrs.  Fred  Baumer. 

SPICE  CAKE 

2  Cups  brown  sugar,  2  cups  flour,  i  cup  sour  cream,  J  cup 
of  butter,  5  eggs,  i  teaspoon  each  soda,  cloves,  allspice, 
cinnamon,  f  teaspoon  nutmeg,  ^  teaspoon  baking  powder. 
Leave  out  the  whites  of  2  eggs  for  the  icing.  Use  boiled 
icing.  Mrs.  C.  E.  Combe. 


CAKES  163 

SPICE  CAKE 

I  Cup  butter,  3  cups  brown  sugar,  4  eggs,  i  cup  sour  milk, 
3  cups  flour,  I  teaspoon  each  soda,  cloves  and  spice,  2  tea- 
spoons cinnamon,  i  cup  raisins,  i  cup  nuts.  Cream  butter 
and  sugar  and  add  well-beaten  yolks.  Sift  soda  and  flour 
and  spices  together  and  add  alternately  with  the  milk  and 
floured  raisins  and  nuts,  add  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of 
eggs  and  bake  in  a  well  buttered  pan.  Ruby  Rice. 

SMALL  SPICE  CAKE 

I  Cup  sugar,  \  cup  butter,  2  cups  flour,  i  egg,  i  cup  sour 
milk,  I  level  teaspoon  soda,  i  teaspoon  baking  powder  with 
the  flour,  i  teaspoon  each  cloves,  cinnamon,  allspice  and 
grated  nutmeg.  Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  egg  and  beat 
well,  then  add  milk  in  which  soda  has  been  dissolved.  Mix 
spices  with  flour  and  add  alternately  with  milk.  Bake  45 
minutes.  Mrs.  D.  B.  Harvey. 

SPICE  CAKE 

ij  Cups  sugar,  \  cup  butter  (scant),  i  cup  sour  milk,  i 
teaspoon  soda  in  the  milk,  the  yolks  of  3  eggs  and  white  of 
I,  2  cups  flour,  I  teaspoon  each  cinnamon  and  spice,  \  tea- 
spoon nutmeg.  Bake  in  2  layers  and  put  together  with 
white  icing.  Mrs.  Harry  Clark^ 

ECONOMICAL  CAKE 

I  Cup  brown  sugar,  i^  cups  water,  \  cup  lard,  i  teaspoon 
cinnamon,^  teaspoon  cloves,  J  teaspoon  allspice.  Boil  all 
these  together  for  5  minutes,  when  cool  add  this  to  2  cups 
of  flour  to  which  have  been  added  i  teaspoon  soda  and  1 
teaspoon  baking  powder.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  20  or 
30  minutes.  Gertrude  Gifford,  Chicago. 

EGOLESS,  MILKLESS,  BUTTERLESS  C^ >KE 
I  Cup  brown  sugar,  \\  cups  water,  i  cup  seedea  raisins, 
2  ounces  citron,  cut  fine  (may  be  omitted),  \  cup  shortening, 

1  teaspoon  nutmeg,  i  teaspoon  cinnamon,  ^  teaspoon  salt, 

2  cups  flour  and  5  teaspoons  baking  powder.     Boil  sugar, 
water,  fruit,  shortening,  salt  and  spices  together  3  minutes. 


164  p.  E.  0.  COOK  BOOK 

When  cool  add  flour  and  baking  powder  which  have  been 
sifted  together.  Mix  well  and  bake  in  a  loaf  for  about  45 
minutes.  w  Mrs.  D.  A.  Lehman. 

DATE  CAKE 

1  Cup  sugar,  J  cup  butter,  ^  teaspoon  salt,  i^  cups  sweet- 
ened apple  sauce,  ij  cups  flour,  i  cup  chopped  dates,  2  tea- 
spoons soda,  3  eggs,  i  teaspoon  of  cinnamon,  i  of  allspice 
and  I  of  cloves  and  i  cup  nuts.  Cream  butter  and  sugar, 
add  well-beaten  egg  yolks,  then  apple  sau^e.  Sift  dry  ingre- 
dients several  times  and  add  to  above  mixture.  Add  dates 
and  nuts  and  last  fold  in  egg  whites.  Ruby  Rice. 

BLACKBERRY  CAKE 

2  Cups  sugar  (light  brown  or  white),  |  cup  butter,  3 
whole  eggs,  3^  cups  flour,  i  tablespoon  Royal  baking  pow- 
der, 2  teaspoons  soda  dissolved  in  cold  water,  i  cup  butter- 
milk, 2  cups  jam  or  2  small  glasses  jelly,  ^  teaspoon  each 
cinnamon,  allspice  and  nutmeg.  Bake  in  layers  and  put 
together  with  caramel. 

Caramel  Filling:  2  Cups  sugar,  i  cup  milk  or  cream, 
f  cup'  butter.  Flavor  with  vanilla.  Cook  together  and 
beat  until  smooth. 

Original  Recipe  of  Mrs.  J.  J.  Parish. 

BLACKBERRY  JAM  CAKE 

6  Eggs,  3  cups  flour,  2  cups  sugar,  ^  cup  butter,  i|  cups 
blackberry  jam,  6  tablespoons  sour  milk,  2  teaspoons  soda, 
2  teaspoons  cinnamon  and  ^  nutmeg.  Bake  in  layers  and 
use  any  icing.  Mrs.  W.  V.  Rathbone. 

STRAWBERRY  JAM  CA^CE 

2  Cups  brown  sugar,  i  cup  butter,  i  cup  strawberry  jam, 
I  cup  buttermilk,  2  teaspoons  soda,  4  eggs  and  i  teaspoon 
each  of  cinnamon,  cloves,  allspice  and  nutmeg.  Add  2^ 
cups  flour.     Bake  in  layers  and  put  together  with  icing. 

Mrs.  Maud  Gramlich. 

FRUIT  CAKE 

4  Cups  sifted  flour,  1  teaspoon  soda,  3  cups  sugar,  2 
pounds  chopped  seedless  raisins,  2  cups  butter,  2  pounds 


CAKES  165 

currants,  ^  pound  citron,  i  nutmeg  grated,  ^  teaspoon  cin- 
namon, \  teaspoon  cloves,  8  eggs  beaten  separately. 

N.  B.  Prepare  cake  for  oven  then  put  in  refrigerator  for 
24  hours.     The  fruit  will  swell  and  cake  be  lighter. 

Mrs.  L.  p..  Batjman,  Cri^itz,  Wis. 

BLACK  FRUIT  CAKE 

1  Pound  sugar,  i  pound  butter,  i  pound  flour  and  10 
eggs,  I  teaspoon  cinnamon,  i  teaspoon  nutmeg,  \  teaspoon 
cloves,  1  pounds  raisins,  2  pounds  currants,  i  pound  figs, 
I  pound  citron,  i  prund.  English  walnuts,  \  pound  pecans. 
Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  add  the  eggs  and  a  part  of  the 
flour,  reserving  a  part  of  the  flour  for  the  fruit.  Add  the 
spices,  then  the  fruit  and  nuts,  well  mixed  and  floured. •;>t-Mix 
well  and  last  of  all  add  i  cup  cold  water  in  which  i  teaspoon 
of  soda  hr,s  been  dissolved.     Very  fine. 

Mrs.  Sam  Whoolery. 

FRUIT  CAKE 

2  Cups  dark  brown  sugar,  i\  cups  butter,  i  cup  molasses, 
6  eggs  beaten  separately,  i  pound  raisins,  \  pound  candied 
pineapple,  \  pound  candied  cherries,  |  pound  candied  orange 
peel  or  citron,  or  half  and  half,  ^  cup  figs,  |  cup  grape  juice, 
f  teaspoon  cloves,  |  grated  nutmeg,  i  teaspoon  allspice,  2 
teaspoons  cinnamon,  2  teaspoons  soda  dissolved  in  i  cup 
buttermilk,  i  teaspoon  baking  powder  and  i  cup  nuts.  Add 
8  cups  flour  reserving  i|  cups  to  flour,  fruit  and  nuts.  Chop 
fruit  fine  and  flour  well.  Add  grape  juice  and  fruit  last. 
Steam  3  hours  and  bake  i  hour  in  a  slow  oven. 

Mrs.  Faxxie  Gaskixs. 

FRUIT  CAKE 

Cream  i  pound  of  sugar  and  i  pound  of  butter  until 
light,  add  10  eggs  beaten  separately,  i  pound  flour,  reserving 
part  for  fruit,  then  add  i  teaspoon  each  of  cinnamon,  cloves 
and  allspice,  2  pounds  raisins,  1  pound  currants,  i  pound 
citron,  orange  peel  and  lemon  mixed,  i  pound  nut  kernels, 
I  pound  dried  figs,  i  pound  canned  cherries,  pineapple  and 
watermelon  preserves.  Makes  2  large  cakes.  iHf  -^S^^^^^-r^' 
'U.r^   M^^r-    -  Bess  S.  Parish. 


> 


1 66  P.  E.  0.  COOK  BOOK 

GINGERBREAD 

J  Cup  lard  or  butter,  2  cups  sugar,  i  egg,  J  cup  molasses, 
I  teaspoon  soda,  \  cup  sweet  or  sour  milk,  2  cups  flour,  i 
teaspoon  each  ginger  and  cinnamon,  a  pinch  of  salt.  First 
sift  flour,  then  measure  2,  cups.  Add  soda,  spices  and  salt 
to  flour  and  sift  twice.  Cream  fat  and  sugar  and  add  well- 
beaten  egg.  Beat  thoroughly.  Mix  molasses  and  milk 
and  add  alternately  with  the  flour.  Bake  in  moderate 
oven.  Ruby  Rice. 

FEATHER  GINGERBREAD 

Sift  together  the  following  ingredients:  i  Cup  flour,  i 
teaspoon  each  soda,  ginger  and  cinnamon.  Blend  \  cup 
each  sugar,  molasses,  melted  lard,  sweet  milk  and  sour  milk. 
Beat  I  egg  and  combine  all  the  ingredients,  stirring  w'ell. 
Add  \  teaspoon  of  salt.     Bake  20  minutes  in  slow  oven. 

Mrs.  C.  D.  Stilwell. 

SOFT  GINGERBREAD 

I  Cup  molasses,  f  cup  lard,  §  cup  sugar,  place  all  in  a  pan, 
let  barely  boil  and  cool.  Add  2  beaten  eggs,  i  teaspoon 
cinnamon,  i  teaspoon  ginger  and  i  level  teaspoon  soda  in  j 
cup  water,  3  cups  flour.     Bake  in  moderate  oven  ^  hour. 

Mrs.  D.  a.  Lehman. 

MUFFINS  OR  SMALL  CAKES 

f  Cup  sugar,  2  tablespoons  butter,  \  cup  sweet  milk,  i\ 
cups  flour,  I  egg  beaten  and  i  teaspoon  baking  powder. 
Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  egg,  milk  and  flour  with  baking 
powder.  Mrs.  W.  V.  Rath  bone. 

PAINS  DE  ALMONDS 

I  Cup  white  sugar,  i  cup  brown  sugar,  i  pound  melted 
butter,  3  eggs  well  beaten,  i  tablespoon  cinnamon,  i  tea- 
spoon soda,  I  cup  blanched  almonds  chopped,  and  4  cups 
flour.  Roll  in  2  balls,  let  stand  over  night,  cut  in  slices  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  Mrs.  G.  T.  Gaskins. 

TEA  CAKES 

I  Small  cup  sugar,  i  large  tablespoon  butter,  \  cup  sweet 


CAKES  167 

milk,  I  egg  and  flour  enough  to  make  batter,  about  i  cup,  i 
teaspoon  baking  powder.  Flavor  with  lemon  or  vanilla. 
Bake  in  mufiin  pans.     Will  make  i  dozen. 

Mrs.  D.  B.  Harvey. 

NUT  CAKES 
I  Gup  sugar,  J  cup  butter,  mix  well,  2  eggs,  i  at  a  time 
and  beat,  i  Teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  water,  i  teaspoon 
each  cinnamon,  vanilla  and  lemon  extract,  i  cup  chopped 
nuts,  I  cup  cooked  raisins  with  \  cup  water  in  which  they 
were  cooked,  \  cup  buttermilk.  Stir  in  2  cups  flour  and 
bake  in  muflin  tins.  Mrs.  O.  M.  Karraker. 

TEA  CAKES 

h  Cup  sweet  milk,  i^  cups  sifted  flour,  i  cup  sugar,  ^  cup 
butter,  I  teaspoon  baking  powder,  4  eggs,  whites  beaten 
stiff".  Cream  sugar  and  butter,  add  other  ingredients  and 
lastly  the  whites  of  eggs.  Flavor  with  vanilla.  Bake  in 
gem  pans  25  minutes  in  moderate  oven. 

Mrs.  W.  V.  Rathbone. 

DATE  BARS 

I  Cup  dates,  i  cup  nuts,  i  cup  sugar  and  2  eggs  well 
beaten.  Add  i  cup  flour  and  spread  thinly  in  a  square  pan. 
Bake,  cut  in  bars  while  warm,  roll  in  powdered  sugar. 

Mrs.  Frank  Riegel. 

MUFFINS 

I I  Cups  sugar,  i  cup  sour  milk,  2  eggs,  ^  cup  butter  and 
2  cups  flour,  I  teaspoon  each  soda,  cinnamon  and  cloves,  2 
teaspoons  vanilla,  i  cup  raisins,  i  cup  nuts.  Bake  in  muffin 
pans.  Mrs.  Ural  Tuttle. 


1 68  P.  E.  0.  COOK  BOOK 

CAKE  FILLINGS 

CAKE  FILLING 

Yolks  of  3  eggs,  well  beaten,  i  cup  sweet  milk  and  i  table- 
spoon butter,  2  tablespoons  chocolate  or  cocoa  mixed  with 
2  cups  sugar.     Mix  all  together  and  cook. 

Miss  Minnie  Welch. 

•ICING  FOR  CAKE 

1  Large  cup  sugar,  \  cup  hot  water.  Cook  rapidly  until 
it  spins  its  first  long  thread  when  dropped  from  the  spoon. 
Have  ready  2  egg  whites  beaten  very  stiffly.  Pour  hot 
syrup  over  eggs  and  beat  until  it  begins  to  cream,  spread 
over  cake.  Etta  Karraker. 

marshmallow  filling 

Add  to  the  above  icing  20  marshmallows,  let  melt  and 
beat.  Ella  Marsh. 

SEVEN  MINUTE  ICING 

Measure  i  cup  sugar  and  take  out  2  tablespoons,  put  in 
double  boiler  and  add  3  tablespoons  hot  water  and  i  egg 
white  unbeaten.  Place  over  boiling  water  and  beat  with  a 
Dover  egg  beater  7  minutes.  If  recipe  is  doubled,  cook  14 
minutes.     Spread  on  cake  immediately. 

ORANGE  FILLING 

J  Cup  sugar,  2  tablespoons  flour,  J  cup  orange  juice,  i 
teaspoon  lemon  juice,  i  teaspoon  butter  and  i  egg  slightly 
beaten.  Mix  in  order  given,  beat  well,  cook  in  double 
boiler,  stirring  constantly. 

BROWN  SUGAR  CARAMEL  ICING 

2^  Cups  brown  sugar,  f  cup  milk,  i  tablespoon  butter. 
Boil  until  soft  ball  is  formed  when  dropped  into  cold  water. 
Remove  from  fire  and  beat  until  thick  enough  to  spread. 

CARAMEL  FROSTING 

2  Cups  sugar,  \  cup  milk,  \  teaspoon  butter  and  h  tea- 
spoon vanilla.     Melt  |  cup  sugar  to  caramel.     Boil  remain- 


CAKE  FILLINGS  169 


ing  sugar  with  milk,  add  caramel  and  butter  and  boil  to 
soft  ball  stage.     Beat  until  creamy,  add  vanilla. 

CHOCOLATE  ICING 

2  Cups  confectioner's  sugar,  \  cup  butter,  2  teaspoons 
boiled  coffee,  i  j  square  unsweetened  chocolate.  Cream  but- 
ter and  sugar  and  add  melted  chocolate  and  coffee.  If  not 
of  the  right  consistency  add  more  sugar  or  coffee. 

Ruby  Rice,  Domestic  Science. 

CARAMEL  FILLING 

i^  cups  sugar,  whites  2  eggs,  3  teaspoons  caramel,  ^  cup 
boiling  water  and  i  teaspoon  vanilla.  Boil  sugar  and  water 
together  until  it  spins  a  thread  and  pour  slowly  on  beaten 
whites  oi  eggs.  Beat  until  cold  and  add  caramel  and 
vanilla.  Mrs.  W.  T.  Skaggs. 

PEACH  BUTTER  FILLING 

For  a  plain  cake,  instead  of  icing,  try  spreading  the  top 
with  this  mixture  and  serve  with  or  without  cream:  Stir  f 
cup  nuts  into  i  cup  apple  or  peach  butter.  Sweeten  slightly 
and  spread  on  cake.  Mrs.  Fred  Baumer. 

RED  RASPBERRY  FILLING 

\  Cup  red  raspberries,  white  of  i  egg,  \  cup  powdered 
sugar,  I  cup  thick  cream.  Whip  the  cream  to  a  stiff  froth, 
also  the  white  of  egg.  Put  the  two  together  and  with  a  fork 
stir  the  sugar  in,  blending  it  perfectly.  At  the  last  stir  in 
the"  raspberries  thoroughly  mashed.  Strawberries  may  be 
used  in  the  same  way  or  the  pulp  of  apricots. — Curtis  Cook 
Book. 

TUTTI-FRUTTI  FILLING 

I  Cup  whipped  cream,  \  cup  powdered  sugar,  i  cup  com- 
bination chopped  walnuts,  almonds,  dates,  raisins,  and 
shaved  citron.  Whip  the  cream  very  stiff,  beat  in  the  sugar, 
then  add  the  nuts  and  fruit,  blending  it  thoroughly  with  a 
fork. 

(12) 


170  P.  E.  O.  COOK  BOOK 

COFFEE  FROSTING 

Use  the  recipe  given  for  Plain  Icing,  only  substitute  \  cup 
strong  coffee  for  boiling  water,  and  leave  out  flavoring. 

MAPLE  SUGAR  FROSTING 

4  Tablespoons  boiling  water,  \  pound  maple  sugar,  white 
of  I  egg.  Boil  the  sugar  and  water  together  until  it  spins  a 
thread.  Pour  over  the  white  of  egg  beaten  till  stiff,  and 
whip  until  thick  enough  to  spread. — Curtis  Cook  Book. 


COOKIES 

OATMEAL  COOKIES 

2  Eggs,  I  cup  sour  milk,  i  teaspoon  soda,  3  cups  oatmeal, 
2  cups  flour,  I  cup  brown  sugar,  i  cup  shortening,  i  cup 
currants,  i  cup  nuts,  i  teaspoon  cinnamon.  Mix  all  dry 
ingredients,  then  add  eggs  and  milk.  Drop  on  greased  pan 
and  bake  in  hot  oven.  Mrs.  D.  B.  Harvey. 

OATMEAL  COOKIES 

2  Eggs,  I  cup  butter,  4  tablespoons  sweet  milk,  J  cup 
sugar,  I  cup  syrup,  2  cups  flour,  ij  cups  oatmeal  ground  fine, 
^  cup  raisins,  i  cup  nuts,  scant  teaspoon  soda,  2  scant  tea- 
spoons cream  of  tartar.  Mrs.  Joe  Morris. 

OATMEAL  COOKIES 

1  Cup  sugar,  I  cup  lard,  2  eggs,  i^  cups  oatmeal,  i  tea- 
spoon soda,  I  teaspoon  cinnamon,  i  cup  stewed  raisins,  5 
tablespoons  water  that  the  raisins  were  cooked  in,  2  cups 
flour,  I  cup  chopped  nuts.  Drop  on  buttered  pan  and  bake 
in  moderate  oven.  Mrs.  Jennie  K.  Rodgers. 

OATMEAL  COOKIES 

2  Eggs,  I  cup  sugar,  2''cups  flour,  2  cups  oats,  i  cup  lard 
and  butter,  i  cup  raisins  and  nuts,  scant  teaspoon  soda  dis- 
solved in  I  tablespoon  warm  water,  4  tablespoons  sweet 
milk.  Mrs.  A.  E.  Somers. 

QUAKER  SWEETBITS 

1  Cup  sugar,  i  tablespoon  butter,  2  eggs,  2^  cups  Quaker 
Oats,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  i  teaspoon  vanilla.  Cream 
butter  and  siigar,  add  yolks  of  eggs,  add  Quaker  Oats  to 
which  baking  powder  has  been  added,  add  vanilla.  Beat 
whites  of  eggs  stifle  and  add  last.  Drop  on  buttered  tins 
with  teaspoon  but  very  few  on  each  tin  as  they  spread. 
Bake  in  slow  oven.  Mrs.  C.  E.  Combe. 

DATE  CRACKERS 

1  Pound  stoned  dates,  2^  cups  rolled  oats,  2^  cups  flour. 


172  p.  E.  0.  COOK  BOOK 

I  cup  brown  sugar,  i  cup  butter  or  other  shortening,  i  tea- 
spoon baking  soda,  \  cup  cold  water,  |  cup  warm  water,  i 
cup  granulated  sugar.  Put  dates  and  granulated  sugar  and 
cold  water  into  a  saucepan  and  boil  until  dates  are  soft. 
Allow  this  to  cool.  Cream  brown  sugar  and  butter  together 
then  add  rolled  oats  and  flour  and  mix  well  with  hand,  add 
hot  water  and  soda  mixed,  then  divide  into  two  equal  parts. 
Roll  out  thin  and  spread  the  date  filling  on  one  layer,  place 
second  layer  on  the  top  of  the  filling  and  cut  into  squares 
and  bake.  Emily  Combe,  East  St.  Louis. 

DATE  BARS 

1  Cup  dates,  i  cup  nuts,  i  cup  flour,  i  cup  sugar,  2  tea- 
spoons baking  powder,  pinch  of  salt,  3  eggs.  Mix  flour, 
sugar,  salt  and  baking  powder.  Put  in  dates  cut  fine  and 
nuts.  Add  eggs  slightly  beaten.  Spread  in  greased  pans 
about  \  inch  thick  and  bake.  Mrs.  Homer  Collier. 

DATE  HERMITS 

Cream  i  cup  butter  and  ij  cups  sugar.  Add  3  eggs 
beaten  until  thick  and  lemon  tinted.  Add  i  pound  dates 
stoned  and  cut  in  four  pieces  and  2  cups  walnut  meats. 
Sift  2|  cups  flour  and  \  teaspoon  salt,  i  teaspoon  cinnamon, 
I  teaspoon  allspice.  Add  to  first  mixture  i  teaspoon  soda 
dissolved  in  2  tablespoons  hot  water.  Mix  well.  Drop 
from  tip  of  teaspoon  on  buttered  tins  i|  inches  apart.  Bake 
in  a  moderate  oven  12  to  15  minutes. 

Mrs.  C.  E.  Combe. 

HERMITS 

2  Cups  sugar,  i  cup  butter,  2  eggs,  nearly  ^  cup  water,  i 
rounded  teaspoon  baking  powder,  i  teaspoon  cinnamon,  | 
teaspoon  cloves,  i  nutmeg,  i  cup  currants,  flour  enough  to 
roll  thin.     Sprinkle  with- sugar  and  bake. 

Mrs.  D.  B.  Parkinson,  Carbondale,  111. 

LEMON  SUGAR  COOKIES 

6  Eggs,  I  cup  butter,  3  cups  sugar,  i  teaspoon  lemon 
extract,  6  level  teaspoons  baking  powder,  i  teaspoon  salt, 
about  8  cups  flour.     Use  enough  flour  to  make  batter  stiff 


COOKIES  173 


enough  to  handle.  Beat  eggs  separately.  Cream  sugar 
and  butter  and  salt.  Add  yolks,  add  flour  aiid  baking  pow- 
der sifted  together  and  last  add  the  beaten  whites.  Roll 
very  thin  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Emily  Combe,  St.  Louis. 

SWEETHEARTS 

Cream  i\  cups  brown  sugar  and  i  cup  butter  and  lard 
mixed,  3  eggs,  \  cup  water,  i  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in 
water,  pinch  salt,  2f  cups  flour,  i  cup  chopped  nuts,  i  cup 
chopped  raisins  mixed  with  the  flour,  2  teaspoons  cinnamon, 
vanilla.     Drop  on  greased  tins  and  bake. 

Mrs.  Fred  Baumer. 

MARGUERITES 

Whites  of  2  eggs  beaten  stifle,  i  cup  sugar,  i  cup  chopped 
nuts,  \  teaspoon  vanilla.  Add  sugar  to  stiff  egg  whites,  mix 
nuts  in  and  spread  on  long  crisp  crackers.  Brown  slightly 
in  oven.  Mrs.  W\  V.  Rathbone. 

VANILLA  DROP  COOKIES 

2  Cups  sugar,  i  cup  butter  and  lard  mixed,  \  cup  butter- 
milk, 4  cups  flour,  I  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  buttermilk, 
T  teaspoon  baking  powder,  3  eggs  beaten  together,  ^  box 
raisins.  Cream  sugar  and  butter,  add  eggs,  then  buttermilk 
and  soda,  add  flour,  baking  powder  and  raisins.  Drop  on 
greased  pan  far  apart  and  bake  in  moderate  oven. 

Mrs.  a.  W.  Lewis. 

CHRISTMAS  FRUIT  COOKIES 

1  Pound  butter,  3  cups  sugar,  7  eggs,  \  teaspoon  each 
ginger,  cloves,  nutmeg  and  cinnamon,  a  sprinkling  of  salt 
and  pepper,  i  package  each  raisins,  dates  and  figs  cut  in 
pieces,  i  full  pint  black  walnuts,  i  rounding  teaspoon  soda 
dissolved  in  i  cup  sour  milk.  Mix  batter  very  stiff  and  drop 
off  spoon  onto  buttered  pan.  Batter  should  be  stiff  enough 
that  cakes  will  not  flatten  out.     W^ill  keep  for  weeks. 

Mrs.  Eva  Clark,  Mrs.  George  Morris. 


174  P'  E.  0.  COOK  BOOK 

FRUIT  COOKIES 

I  Cup  brown  sugar,  ^  cup  butter,  ^  cup  whole  milk  or 
cream,  2  eggs  well  beaten,  2  cups  flour,  |  cup  currants,  i  cup 
raisins,  i  teaspoon  cinnamon,  i  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar,  | 
teaspoon  soda.     Drop  on  buttered  tins  and  bake. 

Mrs.  G.  G.  Mugge. 

DROP  FRUIT  AND  NUT  COOKIES 

I J  cups  brown  sugar,  i  cup  butter  creamed  and  add  3 
eggs  (whole),  i  teaspoon  soda,  i  teaspoon  cinnamon,  salt, 
i^  cups  chopped  raisins,  2^  cups  chopped  nut  meats,  i^  cups 
flour.     Drop  on  tins  and  bake.  Mrs.  Combe. 

FRUIT  BARS 

1  Cup  nuts,  I  cup  dates,  i  cup  figs,  3  eggs,  i^  cups  flour, 
I  cup  sugar,  ^  cup  milk  or  water,  i|  teaspoons  baking  pow- 
der. Bake  in  tins  |  hour,  cut  in  bars,  roll  in  powdered 
sugar.  Mrs.  Joe  Walker,  Herrin,  111. 

MRS.  DILLMAN'S  COOKIES 

3  Cups  sugar,  2  cups  butter,  6  eggs  beaten  separately,  6 
cups  flour,  2  pounds  dates  or  i  pound  dates  and  i  pound 
raisins,  6  tablespoons  water,  i  tablespoon  soda,  2  tablespoons 
baking  powder,  i  cup  nuts,  cinnamon,  cloves  and  vanilla. 
Add  whites  of  eggs  last.  Mrs.  R.  L.  Seright. 

BARBEE-DILLMAN  COOKIES 

2  Cups  light  brown  sugar,  i  cup  Crisco  or  butter,  5  table- 
spoons water,  i  teaspoon  soda  in  water,  2  eggs,  i  lemon,  add 
flour..  Mrs.  R.  L.  SeRight. 

MOLASSES  DROP  COOKIES 

^  Cup  molasses,  ^  cup  sugar,  J  cup  sour  milk,  J  cup  lard 
or  any  other  shortening,  i  egg,  i  teaspoon  soda,  ^  teaspoon 
ginger,  ^  teaspoon  cinnamon,  2^  cups  flour.  Must  be  stifle. 
Drop  by  small  spoonfuls  on  a  greased  baking  tin.  J  Cup 
chopped  raisins  and  I  cup  nuts  may  be  added. 

Mrs.  Nelia  Gregg. 


COOKIES  1/5 

COOKIES 

2  Cups  sugar,  i  cup  butter,  2  large  or  3  small  eggs  beaten 
separately,  i  teaspoon  soda,  i  teaspoon  Royal  baking  pow- 
der, I  cup  buttermilk,  nutmeg  or  other  flavoring  to  taste. 
Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  eggs  and  flavoring,  add  soda 
dissolved  in  milk  and  baking  powder  sifted  into  enough  flour 
to  make  a  rather  stiff  dough,  otherwise  they  will  fall,  they 
are  so  rich.    Mrs.  George  Berry,  Mrs.  G.  T.  Gaskins. 

CHOCOLATE  COOKIES 

\  Cup  butter,  i  cup  sugar,  i  egg,  \  teaspoon  salt,  2 
ounces  Baker's  chocolate,  2|  cups  flour  (scant),  2  teaspoons 
baking  powder,  |  cup  milk.  Cream  butter,  add  sugar  grad- 
ually, egg  beaten  well,  salt  and  chocolate  melted.  Beat 
well,  add  flour  mixed  and  sifted  with  baking  powder,  alter- 
nately with  milk.  Chill,  roll  very  thin,  then  shape  with 
small  cutter,  first  dipped  in  flour.     Bake  in  moderate  oven. 

Mrs.  C.  E.  Combe. 

BROWNIES 

\  Cup  flour,  I  cup  sugar,  ^  cup  butter,  2  eggs,  2  squares 
chocolate  (melted),  i  cup  chopped  nuts,  i  tablespoon 
vanilla.     Bake  in  a  rather  slow  oven.     Cut  in  squares. 

Mrs.  Albert  Montague,  Carbondale,  111. 

DROP  SPICE  COOKIES 

^  Cup  butter,  i  cup  sugar,  i  egg,  i  cup  sour  milk,  1  tea- 
spoon soda,  2  cups  flour,  i  teaspoon  cinnamon,  i  teaspoon 
cloves,  I  teaspoon  of  baking  powder.  Drop  on  greased  pan 
and  bake.  Mrs.  D.  B.  Harvey. 

LEBKUCHEN 

2  Cups  brown  sugar,  2  cups  molasses,  |  pound  citron,  \ 
pound  almonds,  a  pinch  of  orange  peel,  5  eggs,  leaving 
whites  for  icing,  cloves,  cinnamon  and  allspice  to  taste,  \ 
ounce  powdered  hartshorn.  How  to  Thicken:  Stand  over 
night,  roll  out  next  day  and  bake  in  cooky  shapes. 

Bess  Parish. 


176  P.  E.  O.  COOK  BOOK 

ORANGE  SNAPS 
Beat  together  i  cup  sugar,  f  cup  butter,  adding  2  eggs, 
I  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  4  tablespoons  hot  water,  and  6 
tablespoons  orange  juice  with  grated  rind  of  2  oranges. 
Add  sufficient  flour  to  roll  soft  and  thin  and  bake  in  quick 
oven.  Mrs.  C.  E.  Com.be. 

GINGER  CREAiMS 

I  Cup  sugar,  i  cup  butter,  i  cup  molasses,  |  cup  butter- 
milk, yolks  2  eggs,  i  teaspoon  each  cinnamon,  ginger,  cloves 
and  nutmeg,  2  teaspoons  soda  dissolved  in  i  tablespoon 
good  vinegar.  Mix  soft  and  roll  -^  inch  thick.  Bake  in  hot 
oven  and  cover  with  boiled  fi-osting.  Mrs.  C.  A.  Taylor. 

GINGER  SNAPS 

I  Cup  sugar,  i  cup  molasses,  i  cup  butter,  i  level  tea- 
spoon soda,  2  tablespoons  warm  water,  flour  to  stiffen  just 
enough  to  roll.  Mrs.  D.  B.  Harvey. 

INDIAN  COOKIES 

^  Cup  butter,  2  squares  uncooked  chocolate  melted  with 
butter,  2  eggs,  i  cup  sugar,  pinch  salt,  ^  cup  flour  unsifted, 
vanilla  flavoring,  i  cup  nuts.  Spread  out,  bake  20  minutes 
in  moderate  oven,  cut  while  warm  into  squares  or  desired 
shapes.  Bess  Parish. 

JUMBLES 

Into  6  cups  flour  put  3  heaping  teaspoons  baking  powder. 
Cream  2  cups  sugar,  2  cups  butter,  3  eggs  beaten,  3  table- 
spoons sweet  milk.  After  creaming  put  all  in  the  flour  and 
stir  with  spoon  until  all  the  flour  is  taken  up.  Roll  very 
thin  and  sprinkle  with  sugar.  Mrs.  D.  A.  Lehman. 

SCOTTISH  FANCIES 

I  Egg,  I  cup  sugar,  |  tablespoon  melted  butter,  ^  tea- 
spoon salt,  I  teaspoon  vanilla,  i  cup  rolled  oats.  Beat  eggs 
until  light,  then  add  oats  gradually  and  let  stand  several 
hours.  Just  before  baking  add  other  ingredients  gradually. 
Drop  by  teaspoon  on  greased  pan  an  inch  apart  and  cook 
slowly.  Mrs.  Leila  Maxe\,  McLeansboro,  111. 


COOKIES  177 

CRISP  COOKIES 

I  Cup  butter,  2  cups  sugar,  3  cups  flour,  4  eggs,  i  heaping 
teaspoon  baking  powder.  After  mixing  these  stir  in  more 
flour  until  rather  stiffs.     Roll  very  thin. 

Mrs.  a.  a.  Lehman. 

GRANDMOTHER'S  COOKIES 

i^  Cups  sugar  or  can  use  half  molasses  and  half  sugar,  i 
egg,  I  cup  butter,  i  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  i  tablespoon 
water,  i  cup  sour  milk,  i  teaspoon  flavoring,  pinch  of  salt, 
4^  cups  flour,  I  teaspoon  baking  powder,  \  teaspoon  ginger 
and  a  little  nutmeg.  Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  beaten 
egg,  then  milk  with  dissolved  soda  stirred  in  it,  flavoring  and 
dry  ingredients.  Sift  another  |  cup  flour  on  board,  take  ^ 
the  dough  and  knead  in  enough  of  the  flour  so  you  can  just 
handle  it  without  sticking.  The  softer  you  can  have  the 
dough  the  better  the  cookies.  Roll  out  \  inch  thick,  sprinkle 
with  sugar  and  cut  out  with  animal  cooky  cutters.  Use 
remaining  dough  in  same  way. 

Mrs.  Clarence  Bonnell. 

DROP  COOKIES 

Cream  |  cup  butter  or  butter  and  lard  and  i  cup  sugar, 
add  4  well  beaten  eggs,  i  cup  flour,  2  level  teaspoons  baking 
powder  and  i  cup  chopped  nut  meats.  Drop  by  teaspoon- 
fuls  on  unbuttered  tins  and  bake  slowly. 

Mrs.  C.  D.  Stilwell. 

RAISIN  GEMS 

3  Eggs,  \  cup  butter,  i  cup  sugar,  \  cup  sweet  milk,  2 
cups  flour,  \  teaspoon  salt,  i|  teaspoons  baking  powder,  i 
cup  raisins,  i  tablespoon  mixed  spices.  Cream  butter  and 
sugar,  add  beaten  yolks  and  flour  and  milk,  add  beaten 
whites  and  raisins  and  beat  hard.     Bake  in  gem  pans. 

Mrs.  R.  F.  Brown. 

CARTHAGE  COOKIES 

Cream  i  cup  butter  and  i^  cups  sugar,  3  eggs  beaten 
separately,  i  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  2  tablespoons  hot 
water,  4  teaspoons  cinnamon,  i  teaspoon  ground  cloves,  i 


178  P.  E.  0.  COOK  BOOK 

teaspoon  ground  allspice,  2  cups  flour,  ij  cups  nuts,  i^  cups 
or  I  package  raisins  mixed  with  i|  cups  sifted  flour  besides 
the  2  cups  of  flour.  After  creaming  the  sugar  and  butter 
add  the  other  ingredients,  leaving  the  soda  and  stiflly-beaten 
whites  of  eggs  till  last.  You  absolutely  cannot  mix  this 
with  a  spoon,  you  simply  have  to  use  your  hands.  Drop 
small  hunks  on  greased  pan  an  inch  apart  and  bake  in  a  very 
moderate  oven.  Be  careful  in  baking  them,  for  if  your  fij-e 
is  hot  the  nuts  and  raisins  will  burn  and  be  bitter.  Makes 
about  75  cookies.  Be  sure  to  use  lots  of  flour  or  they  will 
spread  out  thin,  the  mixture  is  very  stiflF  and  hard  to  work. 
Use  no  milk  or  other  moisture  except  the  eggs  and  hot  water. 

Mrs.  W.  V.  Rathbone. 

ROCKS 

I  Cup  butter,  ij  cups  brown  sugar,  3  eggs,  3  cups  flour, 
^  teaspoon  cinnamon,  ^  teaspoon  allspice,  i  teaspoon  soda 
dissolved  in  i  tablespoon  warm  water,  i  cup  buttermilk,  i 
pound  each  English  walnuts  and  dates.  Wash  and  remove 
stones  from  dates  and  chop  with  nuts  and  mix  with  one  of 
the  cups  of  flour.  Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  eggs  well 
beaten  and  remaining  flour.  Drop  by  spoonfuls  on  shallow 
greased  pan  and  bake  in  moderately  hot  oven. 

Mrs.  D.  a.  Lehman^. 

ROCKS 

i^  Cups  sugar,  3  whole  eggs,  |  cup  butter,  f  cup  sour 
milk,  I  level  teaspoon  soda,  i  cup  raisins,  1  cup  nut  meats 
chopped,  3  cups  flour.  Drop  from  dessert  spoon  on  buttered 
pan.     Bake  in  moderate  oven.  Mrs.  D.  B.  Harvey. 

COCOANUT  COOKIES 

I  Box  Dromedary  cocoanut,  |  cup  Borden's  sweetened 
milk,  I  beaten  egg  white.  Mix  well.  Drop  with  spoon 
and  bake  light  brown.  Mrs.  C.  A.  Taylor. 

KISSES 

I  Cup  brown  sugar,  i  cup  nuts,  white  of  i  egg.  Beat 
well  and  drop  on  buttered  paper  and  brown.     (Good). 

Mrs.  C.  a.  Taylor. 


COOKIES  179 

LOGANSPORT  SUGARLESS  COOKIES 

1  Can  Eagle  Brand  milk,  i  box  cocoanut,  3  squares 
chocolate.  Melt  the  chocolate  and  mix  with  other  ingre- 
dients. Drop  from  spoon  on  greased  pan  and  bake  in  slow 
oven,  as  they  are  easy  to  burn.  Mrs.  Roy  Seright. 

GINGER  COOKIES 

2  Eggs,  I  cup  sugar,  i  cup  New  Orleans  molasses,  i  cup 
lard,  I  tablespoon  each  soda,  ginger,  cinnamon  and  vinegar, 
and  2  tablespoons  hot  water.  Mix  lard  and  flour  as  for  pie 
crust.  Beat  the  eggs  and  sugar  together,  add  molasses, 
spices  and  vinegar,  and  last  the  soda  dissolved  in  the  hot 
water.  Beat  until  it  foams  well,  pour  into  flour  and  lard, 
mix,  roll  thin,  cut  out  and  bake  quickly.  Mix  dough 
rather  stiff"  or  will  spread  too  much. 

Mrs.  May  Collier. 

DOUGHNUTS 

3  tablespoons  fat,  f  cup  sugar,  i  egg,  f  cup  milk,  i  tea- 
spoon nutmeg,  i  teaspoon  salt,  3  cups  flour,  4  level  teaspoons 
baking  powder.  Cream  the  fat,  add  the  sugar  and  well 
beaten  egg,  stir  in  milk,  add  dry  ingredients  sifted  together, 
add  flour  for  stiff  dough.  Roll  \  inch  thick  and  cut  and  fry 
in  hot  fat.  Mrs.  C.  D.  Stilwell. 

DOUGHNUTS 

I  Cup  sugar,  i  cup  milk  (sour),  i  teaspoon  baking  pow- 
der, I  egg,  I  scant  teaspoon  soda,  and  flour  enough  to  stiffen 
like  cookies,  flavoring.  Roll  out  J  inch  thick  and  cut.  Have 
grease  very  hot  and  fry  quickly.     Roll  in  sugar  while  hot. 

Mrs.  Clarence  Bonnell. 

DOUGHNUTS 

I  Egg,  I  cup  sugar,  i  cup  sour  milk,  ^  teaspoon  soda  in  \ 
cup  warm  water,  i  tablespoon  lard,  pinch  of  salt,  i  teaspoon 
baking  powder,  ^  teaspoon  cinnamon,  ^  teaspoon  nutmeg, 
flour  enough  to  roll  out.     Fry  in  deep  fat. 

Mrs.  D.  B.  Harvey. 


i8o  P.  E.  0.  COOK  BOOK 

DOUGHNUTS 

I  Cup  sugar,  2^  tablespoons  butter,  3  eggs,  i  cup  milk,  4 
teaspoons  baking  powder,  I  teaspoon  cinnamon,  |  teaspoon 
grated  nutmeg,  i|  teaspoons  salt,  flour  to  roll.  Cream  but- 
ter and  add  one-half  sugar.  Beat  egg  until  light  and  add 
remaining  sugar  and  combine  «iixtures.  Add  3I  cups  flour, 
mixed  and  sifted  with  baking  powder,  salt  and  spices, 
then  enough  more  flour  to  make  dough  stiff  enough  to  roll. 

Mrs.  C.  E.  Combe. 

DOUGHNUTS 

I  Pint  sour  milk,  i  cup  sugar,  2  eggs,  i  teaspoon  socia,  2 
tablespoons  melted  lard,  i  teaspoon  baking  powder,  flour  to 
mix  stiff  dough.  Mrs.  R.  L.  Sertght. 


CANDIES 

238°  Soft  ball. 

240°  Medium  ball. 

248°  Hard  ball. 

290°  Small  crack. 

310°  Crack. 

350°  Caramel. 

To  test  for  soft  ball,  lift  pan  from  fire,  dip  a  spoon  in  cold 
water,  then  into  the  syrup,  then  into  the  cold  water  again. 
If  it  comes  off  in  a  soft  ball,  it  is  at  the  right  stage. 

At  soft  ball  stage,  the  ball  will  just  keep  in  shape. 

To  prevent  crystallization,  cook  in  covered  pan  until 
syrup  is  boiling.  Crystals  on  the  sides  steam  off.  With 
milk  mixtures,  watch  carefully  and  remove  lid  in  time  to 
prevent  boiling  over. 

In  fondant  making,  do  not  scrape  pan.  The  temperature 
of  last  few  drops  may  be  different  enough  to  cause  trouble. 

Smoother  fudge  may  be  obtained  by  pouring  into  another 
pan  after  taking  from  the  fire.  Do  not  scrape  pan.  Wait 
until  a  crust  has  formed  before  beating. 

Dipped  candies  keep  well. 

Results  are  better  if  candy  is  made  in  clear,  cold  weather. 

FONDANT 

2  Cups  granulated  sugar,  f  cup  water,  |  teaspoon  cream 
of  tartar.  Stir  until  all  is  dissolved.  W^ipe  grains  from 
sides  of  pan,  cover  and  let  boil  without  stirring.  Try  in  cold 
water.  When  it  has  reached  the  right  degree  it  can  be 
gathered  up  between  the  fingers  into  a  ball  and  will  retain 
any  shape  pressed  into,  but  must  not  be  crisp.  Pour  very 
carefully  on  a  deep,  ungreased  platter  and  let  stand  until 
cool.  Stir  constantly  with  large  spoon  or  wooden  paddle 
until  it  is  too  thick  to  stir,  then  gather  quickly  into  the  hands 
and  knead  as  you  would  bread.  It  will  become  white  and 
creamy-looking  but  must  not  be  grainy.  If  you  are  making 
Christmas  candies  this  can  be  made  a  week  ahead  and  will  be 
better  for  standing.     Fondant  is  the  foundation  of  all  French 


1 82  p.  E.  0.  COOK  BOOK 

candies  and  is  not  hard  to  make,  but  requires  great  care  in 
handling.  Put  away  in  bowl  and  cover  with  oiled  paper  or 
small  white  cloth.  Mrs.  D.  B.  Harvey. 

QUICK  FONDANT 

White  of  I  egg,  confectioner's  sugar,  flavoring.  Beat 
white  of  egg  stiff,  stir  in  as  much  confectioner's  sugar  as  the 
egg  will  hold,  add  flavoring  and  mold  into  balls.  Apply 
nuts,  raisins,  dates,  cocoanut  or  dip  in  melted  chocolate. 

Mrs.  D.  B.  Harvey. 

CREAM  MINTS 

Melt  fondant  over  hot  water,  flavor  with  a  few  drops  of 
oil  of  peppermint,  wintergreen,  clove,  cinnamon  or  orange 
and  color  if  desired.     Drop  from   tip  of  spoon  on  oiled 
paper.  Mrs.  D.  B.  Harvey. 

POTATO  FONDANT 

Peel  and  boil  a  medium  sized  potato,  mash  and  add  pul- 
verized sugar  until  it  can  be  molded.  Flavor  with  different 
extracts  and  color  with  vegetable  colorings.  Put  nuts  on 
top  or  stufl^  dates  with  it.  Mrs.  Thos.  D.  Gregg. 

INSIDE  FONDANT 

2  Cups  sugar,  \  cup  boiling  water  and  2  tablespoons  corn 
syrup.  Put  on  to  boil  in  covered  saucepan.  After  it  boils 
well  remove  lid  and  cook  to  soft  ball  stage.  Pour  in  pyrex 
pie  plate  or  shallow  dish  and  set  aside  to  cool.  When  sur- 
face is  hard  enough  to  retain  a  dent,  beat  hard  until  creamy. 
Use  this  for  the  inside  of  bonbons  and  chocolates.  Mold 
the  same  day  made.  The  corn  syrup  causes  the  inside  to 
mellow  and  become  soft.  Mrs.  T.  L.  Ozment,  Jr. 

FONDANT 

2  Cups  sugar,  \  cup  boiling  water,  J  teaspoon  cream  of 
tartar.  Cook  and  beat  the  same  as  for  inside  fondant. 
This  fondant  will  keep  if  put  in  air-tight  container. 

Mrs.  T.  L.  Ozmont,  Jr. 


CANDIES  183 


SUGAR  PLUMS 

Take  filbert  meats  and  cover  them  with  fondant  and  roll 
in  granulated  sugar.     Other  nut  meats  may  be  used. 

Mrs.  T.  L.  Ozmont,  Jr. 

CHERRY  CREAMS 

Mold  fondant  in  small  oval  shapes  and  decorate  each 
with  candied  cherry.  Whole  nut  kernels,  pineapple  and 
other  candied  fruits  are  very  attractive  and  delicious  for 
decorations.  Mrs.  Chas.  E.  Combe. 

BONBONS 

The  centers  are  made  of  inside  fondant  shaped  in  small 
balls  and  flavored  as  desired.  Nuts  or  cocoanut  may  be 
added. 

To  Dip  Bonbon:  Put  fondant  (made  with  cream  of 
tartar)  in  top  of  double  boiler  and  melt  over  hot  water;  color 
and  flavor  as  desired.  During  dipping,  keep  fondant  over 
hot  water  that  it  may  be  kept  of  right  consistency.  For 
dipping,  use  a  two-tined  fork,  an  old-fashioned  button  hook 
with  a  loop  end  or  something  like  it  made  with  wire.  Drain 
on  oiled  paper  and  stir  fondant  between  dippings  to  prevent 
a  crust  forming.  Mrs.  T.  L.  Ozment,  Jr. 

TUTTI-FRUTTI 

Flavor  fondant  maple  and  mix  with  nuts  for  first  layer. 
Second  layer  colored  pink,  flavored  with  rose  and  mixed  with 
chopped  candied  cherries.  Third  layer  white  flavored  with 
vanilla  and  mixed  with  chopped  blanched  almonds  and 
candied  pineapple.  Mold  and  cover  with  oiled  paper  and 
slice  when  used.  Mrs.  Chas.  E.  Combe. 

CHOCOLATE  CREAMS 

Make  centers  as  for  bonbons.  Melt  a  cake  of  chocolate 
in  a  double  boiler,  but  do  not  let  it  boil.  When  melted,  add 
a  lump  of  parafiine  the  size  of  a  small  walnut.  Then  allow- 
to  cool,  to  about  82  degrees  and  keep  at  this  temperature 
during  dipping.  Mrs.  Chas.  E.  Combe. 


1 84  P.  E.  0.  COOK  BOOK 

CHERRY  COCKTAILS       * 

Drain  marischino  cherries  and  cover  each  with  a  coat  of 
inside  fondant  and  dip  as  for  chocolate  creams.  Drain  on 
oiled  paper  and  wrap  in  paper.     Let  mellow  for  several  days. 

Mrs.  Chas^.  E.  Combe. 

FUDGE 

2  Cups  sugar,  i  cup  milk,  4  tablespoons  cocoa  (or  2 
ounces  bitter  chocolate),  2  tablespoons  butter,  i  teaspoon 
vanilla.  Mix  cocoa  and  sugar  and  add  milk.  Boil  until  it 
reaches  soft  ball  stage.  Remove  from  fire  and  add  butter 
and  flavoring.  Beat  until  creamy  and  thickened.  Pour 
quickly  into  greased  tin.     When  firm  cut  in  squares. 

Mrs.  T.  L.  Ozmont,  Jr. 

PINOCHE 

2  Cups  light  brown  sugar,  f  cup  milk,  2  tablespoons 
butter,  I  teaspoon  vanilla,  i  cup  chopped  nuts.  Boil  sugar 
and  milk  to  soft  ball  stage.  Remove  from  fire.  Add  but- 
ter, flavoring  and  nuts.  Beat  until  creamy  and  thickened. 
Pour  in  a  greased  tin  and  when  firm  cut  in  squares. 

Mrs.  T.  L.  Ozment,  Jr. 

FOAMY  PEANUT  BRITTLE 

2  Cups  granulated  sugar,  2  cups  peanuts,  2  tablespoons 
butter,  \  teaspoon  soda.  Caramelize  sugar,  add  butter  and 
then  soda.     Stir  into  nuts  quickly  and  turn  out  at  once. 

Mrs.  Roy  L.  Seright, 

PEANUT  BRITTLE 

2  Cups  granulated  sugar  melted  in  an  iron  skillet.  Stir 
constantly.  Pound  1  cup  peanuts.  Grease  board  with 
butter.  Add  pinch  of  salt  to  nuts.  Stir  into  melted  sugar. 
Roll  with  rolling  pin  until  thin.  Mrs.  J.  W.  Shultz. 

NUT  BRITTLE 

For  each  cup  of  sugar  use  a  cup  ot  nuts.  Cover  the  bot- 
tom of  a  shallow  pan  with  nuts.  Put  sugar  on  to  melt  in  an 
iron    skillet  and  stir  constantly  until   melted   to  a*  syrup, 


CANDIES  185 

taking  care  to  keep  sugar  from  the  sides  ot  the  pan.  Pour 
over  the  nuts  as  soon  as  sugar  is  melted.  Salted  peanuts 
may  be  used.  Mrs.  Chas.  E.  Combe. 

CHOCOLATE  FUDGE 

2  Cups  sugar,  2  tablespoons  butter,  2  squares  chocolate 
shaved  fine,  f  cup  milk,  i  teaspoon  vanilla.  Boil  chocolate 
and  milk  until  mixture  thickens.  Then  add  sugar,  stirring 
if  necessary.  Cook  until  a  soft  ball  is  formed  when  dropped 
in  cold  water.  Set  aside  without  stirring  until  cool  enough 
to  hold  your  hand  on  the  pan.  Add  vanilla  and  butter  and 
beat.  Miss  Emma  Wright. 

PEANUT  BUTTER  FUDGE 

2  Cups  powdered  sugar,  \  cup  milk,  2  tablespoons  pea- 
nut butter.     Boil  until  creamy  and  beat  until  hard. 

Mrs.  J.  E.  Cornett. 

MOCK  MAPLE  CANDY 

1  Cvip  brown  sugar,  i  cup  white  sugar,  |  cup  cream,  \ 
cup  butter,  \  cup  sorghum  molasses.  Cook  all  together,  stir- 
ring all  the  time.  Let  boil  three  minutes.  Beat  until 
creamy.     Flavor  with  vanilla.  Mrs.  D.  A.  Lehman. 

HONEY  AND  COCOA  SQUARES 

2  Cups  strained  honey,  \  pound  cocoa,  i  teaspoon  van- 
illa, I  pound  pecan  meats  chopped  fine.  Cook  honey  and 
cocoa  to  soft  ball  stage.     Add  nuts.  Bess  S.  Parish. 

FRENCH  OPERA  CREAMS 

Beat  well  i  egg  and  add  to  2|  cups  of  brown  sugar  and  i 
cup  rich  milk.  Boil  until  it  reaches  the  soft  ball  stage,  stir- 
ring to  keep  from  sticking.  This  candy  looks  thick  before 
it  is  done  and  must  be  cooked  until  it  forms  a  soft  ball  in 
cold  water.  Add  lump  of  butter  size  of  walnut.  Remove 
from  fire  and  beat  until  creamy.  Flavoring  and  nuts  may 
be  added  as  desired.  It  is  nice  to  cvit  irt  squares  and  garnish 
with  half  nut  meats.  Mrs.  J.  W.  Coker. 

(13) 


1 86  P.  E.  0.  COOK  BOOK 

CLEVELAND  RECIPE  FUDGE 

3  Cups  sugar,  i  cup  rich  milk.  Bring  to  a  boil,  then  add 
I  tablespoon  butter  and  4  tablespoons  cocoa  and  boil  rapidly 
5  minutes,  stirring  constantly.  Takeoff  and  add  i  teaspoon 
vanilla.     Beat  until  creamy.     Mark  in  squares. 

Mrs.  Fred  Baumer. 

PECAN  PRALINES 

2  Cups  powdered  sugar,  i  cup  maple  syrup,  J  cup  cream 
or  condensed  milk,  2  cups  pecan  halves.  Boil  first  three 
ingredients  until,  when  tried  in  cold  water,  a  soft  ball  may 
be  formed.  Remove  from  fire,  beat  until  creamy,  add  nuts 
and  drop  fi'om  tip  of  spoon  in  small  piles  on  buttered  paper. 

Mrs.  Chas.  E.  Combe. 

CREOLE  PRALINES 

3  Cups  dark  brown  sugar,  i  cup  rich  cream,  2  cups 
hickory  nuts  or  pecans.  Boil  sugar  and  cream  to  soft  ball 
stage,  remove  from  fire,  beat  until  creamy,  add  nuts,  drop 
from  tip  of  spoon  on  buttered  paper. 

Mrs.  Chas.  E.  Combe. 

CARAMEL  FUDGE 

3  Cups  sugar,  i  cup  condensed  milk.  Boil  together  2 
cups  sugar  and  the  milk.  Caramelize  the  other  cup  of  sugar 
and  pour  into  the  first  mixture,  which  should  be  boiling. 
Cook  to  the  soft  ball  stage.  Remove  from  fire  and  set  aside 
to  cool.  When  a  crust  has  formed  on  top,  beat  vigorously 
until  creamy.  Mrs.  Chas.  E.  Combe. 

FRESH  COCOANUT  CANDY 

Grate  or  grind  a  cocoanut.  Boil  ^  cup  water,  3  cups 
sugar,  ^  cup  corn  syrup  and  pinch  of  salt  until  brittle  when 
dropped  in  cold  water.  Then  add  |  of  the  grated  cocoanut 
and  boil  slowly  until  nearly  brittle  again.  Pour  into  but- 
tered platter  to  cool.  Boil  until  brittle  i  cup  sugar  and  milk 
of  the  cocoanut.  Add  the  rest  of  the  grated  cocoanut  an'd 
cook  to  soft  ball  stage.  Beat  until  creamy  and  spread  on 
top  of  first  part.     Cut  in  squares.         Mrs.  A.  C.  Lewis. 


CANDIES  187 


CHOCOLATE  CHIPS 

I  Cup  brown  sugar,  i  cup  molasses,  i  tablespoon  butter, 
pinch  soda.  Boil  together  until  it  forms  a  hard  ball  when 
tested  in  cold  water.  Pour  on  buttered  plates  and  when 
cool  pull  to  a  light  brown.  Cut  into  small  squares  and  while 
they  are  warm,  roll  with  a  buttered  rolling-pin  into  very 
thin  strips.  When  quite  cold  dip  each  strip  into  melted 
sweet  chocolate  and  place  on  waxed  paper  to  harden, 

Mrs.  D.  B.  Harvey. 

CHOCOLATE  SAUSAGE 

1  Cup  bitter  chocolate,  i  cup  sugar,  3  teaspoons  vanilla, 
\  pound  almonds,  |  cup  powdered  sugar,  whites  of  3  eggs. 
Blanch  and  cut  almonds  into  small  pieces.  Roll  the  pow- 
dered sugar  to  remove  lumps.  Grate  chocolate.  Beat  the 
egg  whites  in  a  saucepan,  then  heat  over  the  fire  and  stir 
with  spoon  until  warm.  Add  chocolate,  sugar  and  almonds 
and  stir  until  mixture  is  hot.  Remove  from  fire  and  add 
vanilla.  Pour  the  hot  mixture  onto  the  powdered  sugar  and 
knead  on  a  board.  Form  into  a  large  sausage  or  several 
small  ones.     Let  it  dry  for  12  hours,  then  cut  into  slices. 

Emily  Combe. 
COCOANUT  BAR 

2  Cups  sugar,  \  cup  water,  \  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar,  2 
ounces  cocoanut.  Stir  the  sugar,  water  and  cream  of  tartar 
together  until  sugar  is  dissolved.  As  soon  as  bubbles  are 
seen,  cook  without  stirring  until  it  threads.  Remove  from 
fire,  cool  and  beat  until  it  begins  to  thicken.  Add  cocoanut 
and  spread  on  buttered  pan  to  cool.     Cut  in  bars. 

Mrs.  T.  L.  Ozmont. 

MOLASSES  CANDY 

2  Cups  molasses,  i  cup  sugar,  i  tablespoon  vinegar,  i 
tablespoon  butter.  Boil  until  it  is  brittle  when  tried  in  cold 
water.  Pour  in  a  buttered  tin.  When  cool  pull  until  light 
color.  Mrs.  T.  L.  Ozment,  Jr. 

WHITE  TAFFY 

2  Cups  sugar,  i  cup  water,  i  level  tablespoon  butter,  \ 


p.  E.  0.  COOK  BOOK 


teaspoon  cream  of  tartar.  Boil  until  it  hardens  in  cold 
water,  don't  stir.  Pour  in  buttered  pans  and  flavor  while 
pulling.  Pull  tafi^y  with  the  ends  of  the  fingers  and  it  will 
be  light  and  good.  Mrs.  John  Jackson. 

BUTTERSCOTCH 

I  Cup  sugar,  \  cup  molasses,  i  tablespoon  vinegar,  2 
tablespoons  boiling  water,  ^  cup  butter.  Boil  ingredients 
together  until,  when  tried  in  cold  water,  mixture  will  become 
brittle.  Turn  into  a  well-buttered  pan;  when  slightly  cool, 
mark  with  a  sharp-pointed  knife  into  squares.  Flavor  if 
desired.  Mrs.  Chas.  E.  Combe. 

MARSHMALLOWS 

^  box  (or  2  tablespoons)  Knox's  Sparkling  gelatine,  \  cup 
cold  water,  2  cups  sugar,  \  cup  hot  water,  a  few  grains  salt 
and  flavoring  to  taste.  Dissolve  the  gelatine  in  the  cold 
water.  Boil  the  sugar  and  hot  water  until  it  forms  a  ball 
when  dropped  in  cold  water.  Remove  from  fire  and  stir  in 
gelatine  until  it  is  dissolved.  Let  stand  until  partially 
cooled,  then  add  salt  and  flavoring  and  beat  with  egg  whip 
until  too  stiff.  Then  beat  with  a  large  spoon  until  only  soft 
enough  to  settle  into  sheet.  Pour  into  pans  well  dusted 
with  powdered  sugar.  Chill  thoroughly,  cut  in  cubes  and 
roll  in  powdered  sugar.  Mrs.  C.  E.  Joyner. 

TURKISH  DELIGHT 

Soak  I  ounce  of  sheet  gelatine  in  \  cup  of  cold  water  for  2 
hours.  Put  2  cups  white  sugar  on  the  stove  with  \  cup  of 
water  and  when  it  comes  to  a  boil,  add  the  dissolved  gelatine. 
Let  it  boil  20  minutes,  then  add  the  juice  and  grated  rind 
of  a  lemon  or  an  orange,  and  also  red  confectionery  coloring 
matter,  if  desired.  Bring  again  to  boil,  pour  into  a  small 
square  pan  that  has  been  buttered.  Set  to  cool  over  night, 
cut  in  squares,  roll  in  confectioner's  sugar. 

Mrs.  Homer  Collier. 

NOUGAT 

i\  Cups  sugar,  \  cup  crystal  white  syrup,  ^  cup  hot 
water.     Cook  to  soft  ball  stage.     Beat  ^  cup  into  the  stifl^y 


CANDIES  189 


beaten  whites  of  2  eggs.  Cook  remainder  until  it  threads. 
Beat  into  first  mixture.  Add  nuts  if  desired.  Drop  by 
spoonfuls  onto  buttered  paper.  Mrs.  J.  E.  Cornett. 

SEA  FOAM  FUDGE 

3  Cups  light  brown  sugar,  i  cup  cold  water,  i  tablespoon 
vinegar.  Bring  to  a  boil  gradually  and  boil  steadily  until  it 
hardens  when  dropped  into  cold  water.  Beat  the  whites  of 
2  eggs  stiff,  take  syrup  from  the  stove  and  when  it  has 
stopped  bubbling,  pour  it  over  the  whites  of  the  eggs  and 
beat  well.     Add  i  teaspoon  vanilla  and  i  cup  of  nut  meats. 

Mrs.  J.  H.  Eisenhower. 

PARISIAN  SWEETS 

1  Pound  each  of  dates,  figs  and  English  walnuts  ground 
together  and  mixed  thoroughly.  Form  in  balls  or  cubes 
and  roll  in  powdered  sugar.  May  be  packed  in  tin  box  with 
oiled  paper  between  layers.  If  desired,  mould  in  a  loaf, 
keep  in  air-tight  container  and  slice  as  needed. 

Mrs.  J.  W.  CoKER. 

FRUIT  CAKE  CANDY 

2  Pounds  brown  sugar,  i  pound  nut  meats,  i  pound 
raisins,  i  pound  citron  shredded,  |  cup  minced  orange  and 
lemon  peel  dried,  \  pound  figs  cut  fine,  1  teacup  cream, 
butter  size  of  an  egg.  Mix  sugar  with  a  little  water,  as  if 
making  starch,  add  butter  and  cream  with  a  little  vanilla, 
boil  until  it  begins  to  thicken,  put  in  fruit  and  stir  until  it  is 
creamy  and  smooth.  Pour  on  a  damp  napkin,  shape  like  a 
cake,  roll  up  in  the  napkin  and  put  away  fromi  the  air. 
After  a  few  days,  slice  as  you  would  a  cake. 

Mrs.  a.  C.  Clark. 

ALMOND  COOKIES 

i^  Cup  sugar  and  \  cup  water  boiled  until  it  threads. 
Beat  yolks  of  4  eggs  and  stir  syrup  into  them.  Let  cool  | 
hour,  then  add  |  pound  chopped  almonds.  Set  aside  for 
another  half  hour.  Drop  on  tins  and  bake  in  rather  hot 
oven.  Mrs.  L.  P.  Bauman,  Marinette,  Wis. 


I90  P.  E.  0.  COOK  BOOK 

CRYSTALIZED  GRAPE  FRUIT  PEELING 

Wash,  cut  in  strips,  soak  in  strong  salt  water  over  night. 
In  morning  put  on  in  cold  water  and  boil  hard  20  minutes. 
Draw  off  water.  Put  on  in  cold  water  again  and  boil  20 
minutes.  Drain  this  off,  weigh  peeling  and  put  in  same 
amount  of  sugar.  Add  enough  water  to  boil  and  cook  dry. 
Roll  in  granulated  sugar. 

Mrs.  a.  a.  Lasater,  McLeansboro,  111. 

CANDIED  ORANGE  PEEL 

Select  oranges  with  clear-colored  rind  and  cut  in  halves 
and  remove  the  pulp.  If  not  used  immediately  cover  with 
cold  water.  Put  on  to  boil  and  cook  slowly  20  minutes. 
Drain  off  water.  Cover  with  cold  water  and  boil  20  min- 
utes. Drain  carefully,  scpop  out  white  portion  with  a  spoon, 
being  careful  not  to  break  rind.  Cut  in  rings  |  inch  wide. 
Make  a  thick  syrup  and  when  it  reaches  soft  ball  stage,  put 
in  several  rings  and  simmer  gently  until  syrup  is  very  thick. 
Do  not  scorch,  but  the  longer  it  is  cooked  the  more  candy  is 
on  the  peel.  Remove  from  syrup  and  dip  in  granulated 
sugar.  More  water  may  be  added  to  syrup  andTings-of 
peel  treated  as  above.  Better  results  are  obtained  it  small 
quantities  are  cooked  in  the  syrup  at  one  time. 

Mrs.  Chas.  E.  Combe. 

RICH  CHOCOLATE  CARAMELS 

2  Tablespoons  butter,  ^  cup  milk,  ^  cup  sugar,  i  cup 
molasses,  4  squares  chocolate,  i  cup  chopped  walnuts,  2  tea- 
spoons vanilla.  Put  butter  in  saucepan  and  when  melted 
add  milk,  sugar  and  molasses.  When  boiling  point  is 
reached,  add  chocolate  and  cook  until  brittle  when  tried  in 
cold  water,  stirring  occasionally  to  prevent  mixture  from 
adhering  to  pan.  Remove  from  fire,  beat  3  minutes,  add 
nut  meats  and  vanilla,  and  turn  into  a  buttered  pan.  When 
cold  cut  in  squares  and  wrap  in  paraffine  paper. — Boston 
Cooking  School  Book. 

MASTER  CANDY  FORMULA 

2  Cups  sugar,  ^  cup  liquid  or  a  little  more  in  the  case  of 


CANDIES  191 


certain  variations,  |  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar  or  its  equiva- 
lent in  glucose  or  corn  syrup,  up  to  ^  cup  may  be  used 
instead,  either  of  which  prevents  crystallization. 

Jane  Eddington,  Chicago  Tribune. 

AFTER-DINNER  MINTS 

Candy  cooked  to  the  light  crack  or  brittle  stage,  265°,  is 
pulled  and  then  kept  in  powdered  sugar  in  a  warm  place  to 
make  it  tender  and  sugary.  Flavor  with  oil  of  peppermint, 
wintergreen  or  cloves. 

Jane  Eddington,  Chicago  Tribune. 

CHRISTMAS  LOLLYPOP  STARS 

4  Cups  granulated  sugar,  i  cup  water,  \  teaspoon  cream 
of  tartar.  Cook  in  a  covered  vessel  until  it  reaches  a  boil. 
Do  not  stir.  Cook  to  330°  or  until  a  small  amount  dropped 
into  cold  water  is  very  hard  and  brittle.  Tint  red.  When 
slightly  cooled,  pour  all  but  ^  cup  onto  an  oiled  marble, 
returning  what  remains  in  paji  to  a  warm  place.  When 
edges  are  firm,  mark  in  stars  firmly  and  quickly  with  star 
cooky  cutter  and  break  apart  when  the  candy  is  cold.  After 
the  stars  have  been  separated,  reheat  the  candy  in  the  pan, 
dip  wooden  skewers  into  this  mixture  and  place  a  skewer  on 
each  star.  The  hot  candy  on  the  skewer  will  slightly  melt 
the  star  and  cause  skewer  to  adhere  firmly. 

Mrs.  W.  V.  Rathbone. 

POPCORN  BALLS 

A  medium-sized  dish  pan  half  full  of  popped  corn,  salted 
a  little  and  kept  warm  while  syrup  cooks,  i  Cup  of  molas- 
ses and  I  cup  of  sugar  or  2  cups  of  sugar,  i  heaping  table- 
spoon of  butter,  i  tablespoon  of  vinegar.  Cook  to  soft  ball 
stage.     Pour  over  corn  and  form  into  balls. 

Mrs.  Ural  Tuttle. 

GLACE  NUTS  AND  FRUITS 

2  Cups  sugar,  i  cup  boiling  water,  \  teaspoon  cream  of 
tartar.  Boil  without  stirring  until  syrup  begins  to  discolor, 
which  is  about  310°.  Remove  saucepan  from  fire  and  place 
in  a  large  pan  of  cold  water  to  stop  boiling.     Remove  from 


T92  P.  E.  0.  COOK  BOOK 

cold  water  and  place  in  a  saucepan  of  hot  water  during  dip- 
ping. Take  nuts  and  fruits  separately  on  a  long  pin,  dip  in 
syrup  to  cover,  remove  from  syrup  and  place  on  oiled  paper. 

Mrs.  Chas.  E.  Combe. 


BEVERAGES 

COFFEE— PERCOLATED 

Scald  percolator.  Use  i  large  tablespoon  of  pulverized 
coffee  for  each  cup  of  boiling  water.     Boil  5  to  7  minutes. 

Mrs.  M.  S.  Coleman. 

BOILED  COFFEE 

To  4  heaping  tablespoons  of  ground  coffee  add  i  quart  of 
boiling  water.  Mix  the  white  of  i  egg  with  cold  water  and 
put  into  coffee.  Boil  5  minutes,  then  remove  to  back  of 
stove  and  let  simmer  for  15  minutes.  Ella  Marsh. 

TEA 

Water  for  tea  should  be  used  when  it  has  just  reached  the 
boiling  point.  A  safe  rule  is  i  teaspoon  of  dry  tea  to  ^  pint 
of  boiling  water.  Scald  the  pot,  put  in  dry  tea  and  cover  i 
minute.  Add  boiling  water  and  cover  closely.  Let  stand 
3  to  6  minutes  and  strain  off  into  another  hot  pot.  A 
wadded  cozy  keeps  the  tea  hot  for  a  long  time. — Curtis 
Cook  Book. 

FIVE  O'CLOCK  COCOA 

3  Tablespoons  cocoa,  \  cup  sugar,  f  cup  boiling  water,  a 
few  grains  salt,  4  cups  sweet  milk,  \  teaspoon  vanilla  and  \ 
teaspoon  cinnamon.  Scald  milk,  mix  cocoa,  sugar  and  salt, 
adding  enough  boiling  water  to  make  a  smooth  paste;  add 
remaining  water  and  boil  i  minute;  pour  into  scalded  milk 
and  add  cinnamon  and  vanilla;  beat  briskly  2  minutes  and 
serve  with  whipped  cream.  Mrs.  M.  S.  Coleman. 

COCOA 

In  a  tablespoon  of  boiling  water  dissolve  a  small  teaspoon 
of  cocoa,  then  add  a  cup  of  boiling  milk,  and  boil  together 
for  5  minutes,  stirring  constantly.  When  served  sweeten  to 
taste.  This  is  for  i  cup;  for  larger  quantities  follow  the 
same  proportions.  Use  only  earthen  or  porcelain  vessels, 
as  tin  spoils  the  flavor  of  cocoa.  Curtis. 


194  P-  E.  0.  COOK  BOOK 

HOT  CHOCOLATE 

4  Tablespoons  of  unsweetened  chocolate,  4  tablespoons 
sugar,  I  cup  boiling  water,  a  few  grains  of  salt  and  3  cups 
milk.  Melt  chocolate  in  pan  over  hot  water,  gradually  add 
sugar,  then  boiling  water  and  salt.  Place  on  stove  and  boil 
5  minutes.  Add  milk,  which  has  been  previously  scalded. 
Serve  with  whipped  cream.  Mrs.  D.  B.  Harvey. 

AFTERNOON  CHOCOLATE 

I  Quart  milk,  3  squares  chocolate,  3  tablespoons  boiling 
water,  and  2  tablespoons  sugar.  Put  the  chocolate  in  a 
double  boiler  and  when  it  melts  add  the  sugar  and  stir 
thoroughly  until  both  are  dissolved.  Add  the  boiling  water 
and  beat  it  smooth,  then  pour  over  it  the  scalded  milk. 
Whip  the  beverage  with  an  egg  beater  till  it  foams,  keeping 
it  over  the  fire.  Sweeten  to  taste  and  serve  with  a  table- 
spoon of  whipped  cream  in  each  cupful. — Curtis  Cook  Book. 

ICED  CHOCOLATE 

Grate  2  squares  of  chocolate  and  mix  with  a  cup  of  sugar 
and  a  cup  of  water.  Put  into  a  double  boiler  and  cook  until 
a  thick  syrup  is  formed.  Remove  from  fire,  add  a  tea- 
spoon of  vanilla  and  set  away  to  cool.  When  ready  to  serve, 
arrange  glasses  half  full  of  cracked  ice.  Put  2  tablespoons 
of  syrup  in  each  glass,  fill  with  milk  and  shake  well.  Serve 
with  a  topping  of  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  J.  Harry  Eisenhower. 

LEMONADE 

5  Tablespoons  lemon  juice,  i  cup  sugar,  i  pint  water. 
Make  a  syrup  of  the  water  and  sugar  by  boiling  10  minutes, 
add  lemon  juice,  cool  and  dilute  to  suit  the  taste.  This  may 
be  made  and  kept  on  ice  to  be  used  at  any  time. 

Mrs.  D.  B.  Harvey. 

GRAPE  JUICE 

I  Quart  pure  grape  juice,  juice  2  lemons,  3  cups  water 
and  sugar  to  taste.  Mrs.  G.  T.  Gaskins. 


BEVERAGES  195 

FRUIT  PUNCH 

I  Pint  grated  pineapple,  2  pounds  sugar,  2  cups  boiling 
water,  i  pint  hot  tea,  i  pint  strawberry  juice,  8  lemons,  6 
oranges,  7  quarts  water.  Cook  pineapple,  sugar  and  boiling 
water  together  15  minutes,  add  tea  and  strain,  and  when 
cool  add  fruit  juice  and  cold  water,  adding  ice  a  short  time 
before  serving.  Marischino  cherries  may  be  added.  This 
recipe  makes  about  10  quarts.  Kathleen-Taylor. 

FRUIT  PUNCH 

I  Can  pineapple,  \  dozen  oranges  and  i  dozen  lemons. 
Boil  4  cups  sugar  in  2  quarts  water  for  10  minutes.  Cool 
and  add  to  it  i  gallon  cold  water.  Then  grate  the  pineapple, 
press  the  juice  from  the  oranges  and  lemons,  strain  through 
a  coarse  cloth,  add  all  together  and  serve  with  cracked  ice. 

Mrs.  Fred  Baumer. 

FRUIT  PUNCH 

Juice  I  dozen  oranges,  i  dozen  lemons,  i  quart  strong 
tea,  sugar  to  taste  and  i  gallon  water. 

Mrs.  W.  V.  Rathbone. 

MINT  CORDIAL 

21  Finely  chopped  mint  leaves,  grated  rind  of  i  lemon, 
juice  of  2  lemons  and  i  large  orange.  Put  mint  into  lemon 
and  orange  juice  and  let  stand  30  minutes  or  more.  Boil 
i^  cups  of  sugar  in  i  pint  of  water  and  pour  over  juice  and 
chill.  Mrs.  Lee  McGuire. 

ICED  PUNCH 

Make  a  rich  sherbet  and  grate  a  piece  of  sugar  on  a  lemon 
or  citron  for  flavor.  Then  beat  the  whites  of  5  or  6  eggs  to  a 
froth  and  by  degrees  stir  it  into  the  sherbet.  Add  ice  and 
serve  in  glasses.  Mrs.  Fred  Baumer. 

PINEAPPLE  FRAPPE 

3  Oranges,  i  quart  cherry  juice,  i  can  grated  pineapple, 
juice  of  6  lemons  and  water  to  make  i  gallon.  Sweeten  to 
taste.     A  few  whole  cherries  may  be  added. 

Mrs.  D.  B.  Harvey. 


196  p.  E.  O.  COOK  BOOK 

FRUIT  PUNCH 

9  Oranges,  6  lemons,  i  cup  grated  pineapple,  2  cups 
raspberry  syrup,  i^  cups  tea,  infusion,  i|  cups  sugar,  i  cup 
hot  water  and  i  quart  apollinaris.  Mix  juice  of  oranges 
and  lemons  with  raspberry  syrup  and  tea,  then  add  syrup 
made  by  boiling  sugar  and  water  15  minutes.  Chill  thor- 
oughly, and  just  before  serving  add  apollinaris. 

Mrs.  D.  a.  Lehman. 

CURRANT  SHRUB 

Boil  currant  juice  in  sugar  in  proportion  of  1  pound  of 
sugar  to  I  pint  of  juice,  5  minutes.  Stir  constantly  while 
cooking  and  when  cold  bottle.  Use  i  spoonful  to  a  tumbler 
of  water.  Mrs.  Fred  Baumer. 

ORIENTAL  PUNCH 

Mix  together  i  cup  sugar,  i  cup  water,  6  cloves,  small 
stick  cinnamon  and  a  piece  of  ginger  the  size  of  a  walnut. 
Allow  the  mixture  to  boil  6  minutes  and  when  cool  add  the 
juice  of  3  oranges  and  2  lemons,  strain  and  add  drop  of 
peppermint  oil.  Put  in  enough  green  coloring,  made  by 
pressing  the  juice  from  boiled  spinach  leaves,  to  give  the 
liquid  a  decided  color.  Mrs.  J.  H.  Eisenhower. 

CREAM  NECTAR 

3  Pounds  sugar,  3  pints  water,  white  of  1  egg  and  3  ounces 
tartaric  acid.  Dissolve  sugar  in  the  water,  add  beaten 
whites  of  egg  and  let  it  come  to  a  boil.  When  cold  add  tar- 
taric acid  and  flavor  to  taste.  Mrs.  Fred  Baumer. 

BLACKBERRY  JULEP 

Cook  together  2  quarts  fresh  blackberries,  2  cups  sugar 
and  2  quarts  water  for  20  minutes,  then  strain.  Add  i  cup 
orange  juice,  the  juice  of  i  lemon,  i  pint  cold  water,  and 
cracked  ice.  Just  before  serving  add  i  pint  of  red  raspber- 
ries and  a  sprig  of  crushed  mint.  Mrs.  Ella  Marsh. 

NECTAR  CREAM 

To  I  pint  good  rich  cream  add  i  cup  pulverized  sugar,  3 
eggs,  the  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately,  a  pinch  of  salt. 


BEVERAGES  197 


I  cup  of  any  preferred  fruit  syrup,  i  quart  cold  water  and  i 
cup  cracked  ice.  Shake  thoroughly  or  beat  with  an  egg 
beater  and  serve  ice  cold.  Kate  Harris. 

MULLED  CIDER 

I   Quart  cider,    i    teaspoon  whole  allspice,  J   teaspoon 
cassia  buds,  3  eggs.     Put  the  cider  with  the  spices  in  it  in  a 
saucepan  and  boil  3  minutes.     Pour  it  carefully  over  the 
well-beaten  eggs  and  serve  hot. — Curtis  Cook  Book. 


198  P.  E.  0.  COOK  BOOK 

LENTEN  DISHES 

CHEESE  SOUFFLE 

Grate  ^  pound  of  cheese  and  add  |  small  bottle  of  cream 
or  a  cup  of  boiling  milk  and  season  with  a  pinch  of  cayenne 
pepper,  salt  to  taste,  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut 
and  a  teaspoon  of  flour.  When  the  cheese  is  melted  take 
from  the  fire  and  add  a  pinch  of  nutmeg  and  the  well-beaten 
yolks  of  3  eggs,  with  the  whites  of  2  of  them  whipped  to  a 
froth.  Place  in  a  baking  dish  with  a  piece  of  butter  on  top 
and  let  remain  in  oven  until  it  begins  to  take  form.  Then 
remove  and  place  on  top  the  white  of  the  other  egg,  beaten  to 
a  stiff  froth.  Let  it  brown  slightly  in  the  oven  and  serve 
immediately.  Mrs.  Fannie  Gaskins. 

CHEESE  SOUFFLE 

Make  a  cream  sauce  of  2  tablespoons  butter,  3  table- 
spoons flour  and  ^  cup  milk.  Stir  into  this  |  cup  of  cheese, 
either  grated  or  sliced  very  thin.  Keep  hot  until  the  cheese 
is  all  melted,  but  do  not  let  it  boil  after  the  cheese  is  added. 
When  the  cheese  is  all  melted  and  thoroughly  mixed  in  the 
cream  sauce,  add  the  well-beaten  yolks  of  3  eggs.  When  it 
has  cooled  a  little,  fold  in  very  carefully  the  stifily  beaten 
whites  of  the  eggs.  Put  into  a  well-greased  pan  and  set  in 
another  pan  of  hot  water  and  put  all  into  a  very  moderate 
oven  and  bake  about  J  hour.     Serve  promptly. 

Mrs.  Stilwell. 

CHEESE  SOUFFLE 

Soak  I  cup  bread  crumbs  in  i  cup  hot  milk.  Add  ^  cup 
butter,  I  cup  grated  cheese,  3  eggs  beaten  separately,  i  tea- 
spoon prepared  mvistard,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.     Bake. 

Mrs.  Fred  Baumer. 

EGGS  A  LA  SUISSE 

Break  what  eggs  you  need  into  a  buttered  pan,  grate 
over  it  a  sprinkling  of  cheese  and  season  with  salt  and  bits  of 
butter;  pour  a  little  milk  over  top  and  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  I  hour.  Mrs.  D.  A.  Lehman. 


LENTEN  DISHES  199 

EGGS  A  LA  SUISSE 

Spread  the  bottom  of  a  dish  with  2  ounces  of  tresh  butter, 
cover  this  with  grated  cheese,  break  8  whole  eggs  upon  the 
cheese  without  breaking  the  yolks.  Season  with  red  pep- 
per and  salt  if  necessary,  pour  a  little  cream  on  the  surface, 
strew  about  2  ounces  of  grated  cheese  on  the  top  and  set  in  a 
moderate  oven  for  about  15  minutes.     Brown  on  top. 

Mrs.  Fred  Baumer. 

TWO  WAYS  OF  PREPARING  EGGS  FOR  THE  SICK 

Put  I  egg  in  a  cup  and  beat  very  light,  add  a  pinch  of 
salt,  then  fill  the  cup  with  milk.  Or  nutmeg  or  sugar  may 
be  used  instead  of  salt;  also  unfermented  grape  juice  may 
be  used  instead  of  milk. 

Put  the  juice  of  i  orange  or  lemon  into  a  glass  and  sweet- 
en to  taste;  put  in  cracked  ice  and  water;  beat  the  white 
of  an  egg  to  a  stiff  froth  and  add  to  the  mixture  and  beat  all 
well  together.  Mrs.  D.  A.  Lehman. 

BAKED  OMELET 

6  Eggs  beaten  stiff,  separately,  6  tablespoons  sweet  milk, 
\  teaspoon  salt.  Mix  and  bake  20  minutes  in  a  well-greased 
pan;   fold  and  add  chopped  fHed  ham,  bacon  or  jelly. 

Mrs.  W.  V.  Rathbone. 

NUT  LOAF 

I  Cup  finely-chopped  nuts,  i  cup  grated  bread  crumbs, 
I  teaspoon  salt,  ^  teaspoon  pepper,  i  small  teaspoon  sage,  i 
tablespoon  melted  butter,  i  egg.  Mix  well  and  moisten 
with  I  cup  sweet  milk.  Bake  in  a  well-buttered  pan  20 
minutes.  Mrs.  W^  V.  Rathbone. 

NUT  AND  CHEESE  LOAF 

I  Cup  grated  cheese,  i  cup  English  walnuts,  i  cup  bread 
crumbs,  i  egg,  i  tablespoon  butter,  i  tablespoon  chopped 
parsley,  i  tablespoon  chopped  onion,  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste.  Moisten  with  tomato  sauce  and  bake.  Serve  with 
tomato  sauce.  Mrs.  Elsie  Gregg. 


200  P.  E.  0.  COOK  BOOK 

LENTEN  SALAD 

2  Neufchatel  cheeses,  |  cup  nuts,  ^  cup  celery,  |  table- 
spoon salt,  J  teaspoon  paprika  and  ^  cup  whipped  cream. 
Mix  all  thoroughly  and  add  3  tablespoons  salad  dressing. 
Mold  in  egg-shaped  balls  and  serve  on  lettuce,  very  -cold. 

Mrs.  D.  a.  Lehman. 

PEPPERS  FILLED  WITH  CHEESE 

To  stuff  6  peppers  take  ij  cups  cheese,  6  eggs,  J  teaspoon 
salt,  J  teaspoon  onion  juice.  Beat  eggs  very  light,  add  grated 
cheese  and  seasoning,  thicken  with  rolled  cracker  crumbs 
and  fill  peppers.  Bake  a  light  brown  in  a  moderate  oven. 
May  be  served  plain  or  with  tomato  sauce. 

Mrs.  D.  a.  Lehman. 

MAPLE  CHEESE  TOAST 

Slice  bread  and  toast  a  golden  brown,  butter,  then  spread 
with  soft  maple  sugar  and  lay  on  it  a  thin  slice  of  cream 
cheese.  Put  into  the  oven  long  enough  to  melt  the  sugar 
slightly,  "then  serve.  Cottage  cheese  may  be  substituted 
for  the  cream  cheese.  Mrs.  Fannie  Gaskins. 

CHEESE  ROULETTES 

Whip  the  whites  of  3  eggs  until  stiff  and  mix  with  them  i 
cup  of  grated  cheese  which  has  been  seasoned  with  salt  and  a 
pinch  of  cayenne  pepper.  Flour  the  hands  and  mold  into 
balls  the  size  of  a  walnut.  Drop  into  hot  lard  and  fry  5 
minutes  or  until  light  brown.  Mrs.  M.  S.  Coleman. 

OMELETTE 

6  Eggs  beaten  separately.  To  the  beaten  yolks  add'  i 
tablespoon  flour  and  i  heaping  teaspoon  sugar,  i  cup  milk, 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Fold  in  the  beaten  whites,  place 
all  in  a  hot  greased  skillet  and  put  in  a  hot  oven  for  5  min- 
utes. Mrs.  Ida  E.  Stilwell. 

NUT  LOAF 
Put  through  a  food  chopper  i  cup  English  walnuts  and 
i^  cups  Brazil  nuts.     Mix  with  2  well-beaten  eggs,  2  cups 


LENTEN  DISHES  201 

boiled  rice  and  i  cup  milk.     Season  with  salt,  pack  firmly 
and  bake  in  a  well-buttered  pan  in  a  hot  oven. 

Mrs.  D.  a.  Lehman. 

ESCALLOPED  CHEESE 

In  a  baking  dish  put  a  layer  of  grated  cheese,  sprinkle 
with  salt  then  put  a  layer  of  hard  boiled  eggs  that  have  been 
put  through  a  ricer,  season,  then  another  layer  of  cheese; 
over  all  pour  enough  white  sauce  to  moisten. 

Mrs.  D.  a.  Lehman. 

CREAMED  EGGS 

6  Hard-boiled  eggs,  i|  cups  milk,  i^  tablespoons  flour,  | 
teaspoon  salt,  i|  tablespoons  butter,  6  slices  Boston  brown 
bread,  a  few  grains  of  pepper.  Melt  butter,  stir  in  the  flour 
and  seasonings  and  gradually  the  milk.  Let  come  to  boil, 
add  the  eggs  chopped  fine  and  pour  the  mixture  over  the 
toast.  Mrs.  Ella  Marsh. 

Yolks  of  eggs  may  be  hard-boiled  by  dropping  them  into 
hot  water  and  cooking  slowly  for  15  minutes,  then  putting 
them  through  a  sieve  and  placing  them  over  milk  toast. 

Mrs.  Fannie  Gaskins. 

EGG  VERMICELLI 

1  Tablespoons  butter,  i|  tablespoons  flour,  i  cup  milk, 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  4  hard-boiled  eggs.  Rub  butter 
and  flour  together,  add  milk  and  boil.  When  done  add 
chopped  whites,  pour  over  toast  and  sprinkle  with  grated 
yolks.     Serve  hot.  Mrs.  D.  A.  Lehman. 

ESCALLOPED  EGGS 

I  Dozen  hard-boiled  eggs,  i  pint  cream,  a  heaping  cup 
bread  crumbs,  a  tablespoon  flour  (large),  butter  the  size  of 
an  egg,  salt,  pepper  and  extract  of  celery  to  taste.  Slice  the 
eggs  and  arrange  the  layers  in  a  baking  dish,  sprinkling 
lightly  with  bread  crumbs  and  bits  of  butter.  Make  a 
sauce  of  the  cream,  thickened  with  the  flour  and  seasoned 
with  salt,  pepper  and  celery.  Pour  this  over  the  last  layer 
of  eggs;  strew  the  remaining  bread  crumbs  on  top  and  bake 
until  brown.  Mrs.  Ella  Marsh. 

(14) 


202  P.  E.  0.  COOK  BOOK 

BAKED  EGGS  IN  POTATO  CASES 
Cook  sufficient  potatoes  and  mash  the  evening  before 
needed.  Season  nicely  as  for  the  table,  flour  the  molding 
board,  pat  the  potato  out  into  a  thick  cake  (3  cups  of  pota- 
toes will  make  5  or  6  cases),  cut  with  a  cake  butter  and  lay- 
on  a  buttered  tin;  with  your  fingers  press  a  hollow  in  each 
cake.  This  can  be  done  while  the  potato  is  warm  at  night. 
In  the  morning  brush  the  cases  with  milk  and  place  in  the 
oven  to  brown;  when  hot  and  nearly  brown  enough  remove 
from  the  oven  and  drop  an  egg  into  each  case,  with  a  dash  of 
pepper  and  a  bit  of  butter  on  each  egg.  Bake  till  the  egg  is 
set;  lift  with  a  cake-turner  and  place  on  a  hot  platter. 
Garnish  with  parsley  or  celery  tips.  This  is  much  more 
simple  than  the  directions  would  indicate. 

Mrs.  Fannie  Gaskins. 

OMELET  IN  A  SKILLET 

5  Eggs,  10  tablespoons  milk,  J  teaspoon  salt.  Separate 
the  yolks  from  the  whites;  beat  whites  very  dry;  beat  yolks 
slightly,  add  milk  and  salt  to  yolks  and  stir,  then  fold  in  the 
whites.  Heat  skillet  with  i  tablespoon  of  butter,  turn 
omelet  in  and  cook  on  top  of  stove  until  beginning  to  set, 
then  place  in  oven  to  brown.  Serve  hot.  Cheese  or  ham 
may  be  added  just  before  putting  into  the  skillet.  Have 
stove  medium  hot.  Mrs.  M.  S.  Coleman. 

CHEESE  TASTIES 

Make  6  thin  sliced  of  toast;  spread  with  mustard  and 
place  on  this  thick  slices  of  cheese  and  season  with  paprika. 
Allow  to  stand  in  a  hot  oven  until  cheese  melts.  Serve 
piping  hot.  Mrs.  Fred  Baumer. 

VERMICFXLl  WITH  EGGS  AND  CHEESE 

Break  half  a  package  of  vermicelli  in  ^-inch  lengths  and 
boil  until  very  tender;  drain  and  spread  out  in  a  shallow 
baking  dish,  grate  over  it  4  tablespoons  dry  cheese  and  dot 
with  3  tablespoons  of  butter.  Beat  up  3  eggs,  add  i  pint 
sweet  milk  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper  and  pour  over  the 
vermicelli.     Sprinkle  the  top  thinly  with  buttered  cracker 


LENTEN  DISHES  203 

crumbs  and  bake  in  a  moderately  hot  oven  until  custard  is 
set  and  slightly  browned  on  top  Mrs.  A.  C.  Clark. 

CHEESE  DREAMS 

Grate  the  amount  of  cheese  needed  for  the  number  of 
sandwiches  you  wish  to  make.  Add  cream,  a  little  at  a  time, 
using  a  silver  fork  to  m-ash  the  cheese,-Working  it  to  a  creamy 
consistency,  then  add  ^  teaspoon  mustard  to  each  cup  of 
mixture.  Salt  slightly  and  spread  generously  between 
thinly  sliced  white  bread.  They  may  be  either  toasted  or 
fried  on  a  lightly  buttered  griddle. 

Mrs.  M.  S.  Coleman. 

CHEESE  DREAMS 

Cut  white  bread  as  for  sandwiches,  place  a  layer  of  plain 
cheese  between  and  put  in  hot  oven  and  toast.  Or  these 
may  be  fried  in  hot  butter. 

ESCALLOPED  EGGS 

6  Eggs  hard  boiled,  j  pound  of  cheese,  grated.  Season 
with  salt  and  pepper.  Make  a  white  sauce  and  pour  over 
cheese  and  eggs  after  you  put  them  in  a  baking  dish.  Cook 
15  or  20  minutes. 

Mrs.  Leila  Maxey,  McLeansboro,  111. 


204  p.  E.  0.  COOK  BOOK 

SANDWICHES 

GINGER  SANDWICHES 

Chop  I  cup  of  preserved  ginger  fine  and  blend  with  it 
enough  thick  cream  to  spread,  spread  between  thin  sHces  of 
buttered  brown  or  white  bread. 

DATE  SANDWICHES 

Stone  and  chop  i  cup  of  dates,  add  J  cup  chopped  nuts, 
work  into  a  paste  with  a  little  thick  cream,  flavor  with 
vanilla.     Spread  between  thin  slices  of  white  bread. 

PRUNE-CHEESE  SANDWICHES 

Wash  prunes,  cover  with  water  and  soak  over  night,  add 
^  cup  sugar  in  the  morning  and  simmer  until  tender  and  the 
juice  is  absorbed.  To  i  cup  of  the  prune  pulp  add  |  cup  of 
grated  cheese  and  a  little  cream  if  needed.  Use  as  a  filler 
between  brown  or  graham  bread.  Eva  Clark. 

CUCUMBER  SANDWICHES 

Chop  young  cucumbers  fine,  squeezing  out  as  much 
moisture  as  possible.  Chop  Spanish  onion  fine  and  add  to 
the  cucumber,  mix  with  mayonnaise  dressing  and  spread 
between  slices  of  buttered  bread.  Eva  Clark 

OLIVE  AND  CHEESE  SANDWICHES 

Chop  stuffed  olives,  blend  with  grated  cheese  and  mix 
with  mayonnaise,  spread  between  buttered  bread. 

NASTURTIUM  SANDWICHES 

Chop  hard  boiled  eggs  fine,  to  each  egg  allow  i  nastur- 
tium leaf  cut  fine,  mix  with  mayonnaise,  spread  between 
buttered  bread  and  garnish  with  a  nasturtium  flower. 

BEET  AND  EGG  SANDWICHES 

Chop  hard-boiled  eggs  fine  and  season  to  taste  with  salt 
and  pepper  and  a  little  melted  butter.  Take  half  the  quan- 
tity of  beets  chopped  fine,  spread  on  thin  slices  oi  buttered 
bread.  Eva  Clark. 


SANDWICHES  205 


CUPID'S  DARTS 

3  Tablespoons  grated  cheese,  3  tablespoons  flour,  i  table- 
spoon lemon  juice,  i  egg  yolk,  salt  and  cayenne  pepper. 
Mix  all  together,  roll  them,  and  cut  in  the  shape  of  darts. 
Bake  15  minutes. 

HEART  SANDWICHES  . 

Remove  crust  from  bread,  cut  in  the  form  of  hearts  and 
spread  between  1  of  them  a  mixture  composed  of  finely 
minced  nut  meats,  chicken  and  pimentos,  mixed  into  a  paste 
with  mayonnaise.  Press  closely  and  tie  each  with  narrow 
ribbon. 

NUT  SANDWICHES 

Thin  slices  of  whole  wheat  bread  cut  circular  and  butter- 
ed. Make  a  filling  of  chopped,  roasted  and  salted  peanuts, 
mixed  with  sufficient  mayonnaise  to  spread  easily. 

OLIVE  SANDWICHES 

Thin  slices  of  bread  evenly  buttered,  spread  with  cheese 
mixed  to  a  paste  with  equal  quantities  of  cream  and  salad 
dressing,  and  covered  thickly  with  chopped  olives. 

Mrs.  G.  T.  Gaskjns. 

BOSTON  BROWN  BREAD  SANDWICHES 

Cut  bread  in  thin  slices,  butter  lightly. and  spread  with 
thick  mayonnasie  and  put  together  with  thinly  sliced,  well 
drained  cucumbers.  Mrs.  D.  A.  Lehman. 

Mix  any  finely  chopped  cooked  meat  with  well  seasoned 
boiled  dressing.  Butter  white  bread  lightly,  spread  on  the 
meat  and  put  together  with  thinly  sliced  ripe  tomatoes. 

Mrs.  D.  A.  Lehman. 

OPEN  SANDWICHES 

Spread  a  layer  of  cream  cheese  that  has  been  moistened 
with  cream  or  mayonnaise,  on  a  slice  of  brown  bread,  over 
this  sprinkle  ground  nuts,  or  green  and  red  mangoes. 

Mrs.  D.  a.  Lehman. 

EGG  AND  CHEESE  SANDWICHES 

Grate  cheese  and  add  hard-boiled  eggs  that  have  been 


2o6  p.  E.  0.  COOK  BOOK 

put  through  the  ricer.  Add  i  small  bottle  of  stuffed  olives 
and  enough  juice  off  the  olives  to  flavor.  Mix  all  together 
with  mayonnaise,  and  spread  on  thinly  sliced  bread. 

Mrs.  D.  a.  Lehman. 

TOASTED  HAM  AND  CHEESE  SANDWICHES 

Grind  boiled  ham  and  mix  with  salad  dressing.  Spread 
between  thin  slices  of  bread  and  cover  with  grated  cheese. 
Put  in  oven  and  toast  on  both  sides.  Ruby  Rice. 

EGG  AND  BACON  SANDWICHES 

Mix  hard-cooked  eggs  and  crisp  bacon  which  have  been 
run  through  the  food  chopper.  Mix  with  salad  dressing 
and  make  into  sandwiches,  with  a  lettuce  leaf  between. 
They  may  be  toasted.  ~  Ruby  Rice. 

GOOD  SANDWICHES 

Slice  bread  very  thin  and  put  in  the  following  mixture: 
1  Pimentos,  i  green  peppers,  ground,  i  teaspoon  prepared 
mustard,  i  can  deviled  ham,  salt  and  Worcestershire  sauce 
to  taste.  Mrs.  G.  .O.  Proffitt,  St.  Louis. 

APRICOT  SANDWICHES 

Brown  bread  spread  with  cottage  or  cream  cheese  to 
which  enough  pulp  from  canned  apricots  has  been  added  to 
make  it  spread  easily. 

NUT  SANDWICHES 

I  Pound  nuts  chopped,  3  hard-boiled  eggs  chopped. 
Mix  with  salad  dressing,  serve  on  lettuce  leaf  between 
bread. 

PIMENTO  AND  CHEESE  SANDWICHES 

I  Cup  cheese,  i  cup  pimentos,  \  cup  olives,  all  chopped 
fine.     Mix  and  put  between  buttered  bread. 

CHERRY  SANDWICHES 

Cherries  stoned  and  chopped,  added  to  peanut  butter  for 
sandwiches. 


SANDWICHES  207 


CHERRY  SANDWICHES 

Cherries  stoned  and  chopped,  add  to  cream  cheese  and 
chopped  nuts  make  a  dehcious  sandwich. 

ASPARAGUS  SANDWICHES 

Asparagus   pressed    through    the   strainer,   mixed   with 
horseradish  and  mayonnaise,  makes  a  good  sandwich. 

Mrs.  Fred  Baumer. 


2o8  p.  E.  0.  COOK  BOOK 

HOUSEHOLD  HINTS 

QUANTITIES  FOR  SERVING  FIFTY  PEOPLE 

Ten  quarts  of  bouillon. 

Creamed  chicken — Six  4-pound  chickens,  or  three  chick- 
ens and  the  same  amount  of  veal. 

For  Cream  Sauce — Three  pints  each  of  cream  and  milk. 

Chicken  Croquettes — Five  4-pound  chickens,  two  quarts 
of  milk,  six  eggs  and  six  cans  of  peas  to  serve  with  them. 

Ham  or  Tongue  to  serve  cold — Eight  pounds. 

Ice  Cream — Two  gallons. 

Cakes — Four  or  six  dozen  individual  ones. 

If  strawberries  are  to  be  served  with  ice  cream,  provide 
seven  quarts. 

Sandwiches — An  ordinary  loaf  makes  twenty  large  sand- 
wiches.    These  may  be  cut  again,  making  forty. 

Biscuits  or  Rolls — One  hundred  and  fifty. 

Butter  for  Sandwiches,  White  Sauce,  etc. — Five  pounds. 

Fish  Timbales — Six  pounds  of  cooked  fish. 

Timbale  Cases — Sixty  to  allow  for  breakage. 

Fruit  Salad — Six  quarts  of  fruit,  six  cups  of  mayonnaise 
and  one  pint  of  whipping  cream. 

Sweetbread  Salad — Five  pounds  of  sweetbreads,  three 
cans  of  peas,  or  four  cucumbers;  six  quarts  will  be  sufficient. 

Jelly — Four  glasses. 

Candy — Two  pounds. 

Salted  Nuts — Three  pounds. 

Olives — Two  quarts. 

Punch — Two  gallons,  four  pints  of  carbonated  water  and 
two  large  pieces  of  ice. 

For  seasoning  and  garnishing-^ wo  bunches  of  parsley, 
six  lemons,  salt,  pepper  and  paprika. 


VARNISH  REMOVER— Three  tablespoonsful  of  bak- 
ing soda  in/rquart  of  water,  applied  with  a  rough  cloth,  will 
remove  old  var1^<?h  very  easily  when  you  wish  to  revarnish 
furniture. 


HOUSEHOLD  HINTS  209 

TO  REMOVE  SHINE— Sponge  the  serge  with  hot 
vinegar  and  then  press  on  the  wrong  side  of  the  material. 

SUNSHINE  A  CLEANSER— Sunshine  is  the  best  pos- 
sible disinfectant.  The  rays  of  the  sun  penetrate  and  dis- 
integrate all  organic  substances.  Let  it  flood  the  rooms 
which  are  occupied  whenever  it  is  possible.  Lay  the  bed- 
ding in  its  direct  rays  for  an  hour  every  bright  morning. 
Dark  corners  that  have  a  stufi^y  smell  are  dangerous  to  the 
health  of  the  household. 

SLICING  LEMONS — Lemon  slices  should  be  separated 
when  cut  and  not  have  a  bit  of  skin  that  is  uncut  to  hold 
them  together.     Seeds  should  be  removed  from  the  slices. 

FOR^ PANTRY  SHELVES— Do  away  with  papers  on 
your  pantry  shelves  by  substituting  for  them  two  or  three 
coatings  of  white  enamel.  The  effect  will  appeal  to  house- 
keepers on  account  of  its  inviting  and  cleanly  appearance 
aside  from  its  sanitary  qualities. 

TO  DRIVE  AWAY  ANTS— For  ants,  put  one  table- 
spoonful  of  water  and  one  tablespoonful  of  paregoric  in  a 
small  saucer  on  the  cupboard  shelves  or  any  place  infested 
by  them.  They  will  all  leave.  Strips  of  blotting  paper 
saturated  with  the  paregoric  placed  on  the  refrigerator 
shelves  will  exterminate  the  little  red  ants. 

SERVING  SARDINES— When  a  box  of  sardines  is 
opened  it  should  be  drained  of  all  oil  possible  and  then  the 
little  fish  turned  out  and  sprinkled  with  lemon  juice.  They 
should  be  drained  again  before  serving.  The  lemon  will  cut 
the  remaining  oil  and  make  the  sardines  more  palatable. 

A  raw  egg  taken  immediately  will  carry  down  a  fish  bone 
that  cannot  be  gotten  up  from  the  throat. 

A  mustard  plaster  made  with  the  white  of  an  egg  will  not 
leave  a  blister. 

The  white  of  an  egg  beaten  with  loaf  sugar  and  lemon 
relieves  hoarseness.     Take  one  teaspoonful  each  hour. 

TO  WASH  A  WHITE  SWEATER— Make  a  warm  suds 
with  any  good  laundry  soap,  and  add  to  this  a  lump  of  sal 
soda  or  a  teaspoonful  of  ammonia;    either  will  tend  to  cut 


210  P.  E.  0.  COOK  BOOK 

the  grease  in  the  wool,  the  presence  of  which  makes  the  first 
washing  of  the  heavy  sweater  so  difficult. 

Do  not  rub  garment  on  board,  but  wash  by  hand  or  in  a 
washing  machine  until  it  is  perfectly  clean.  Fold  carefully, 
pass  through  wringer  twice,  and  rinse  thoroughly  in  clear 
water  of  same  temperature  as  suds.  Do  not  use  bluing,  for 
it  will  turn  the  natural  creamy  tint  of  the  wool  to  a  dingy 
gray.  Again  fold  and  pass  through  wringer  twice,  then 
spread  out  on  a  large  bath  towel.  When  towel  becomes 
damp  take  a  dry  one  and  repeat  the  process  until  garment  is 
dry.  If  the  sweater  is  a  new  and  heavy  one,  this  may  take 
two  days.  This  method  of  drying  gives  the  lustrous  flat 
finish  that  the  garment  has  when  new,  and  while  this  may 
seem  like  considerable  trouble,  results  are  in  proportion  to 
the  labor  entailed. 

An  egg  added  to  a  morning  cup  of  coffee  makes  a  good 
tonic. 

CURE  FOR  CORNS — Dip  a  soft  linen  rag  in  turpentine 
and  wrap  it  around  the  toe  on  which  the  corn  is;  change 
this  night  and  morning  for  a  few  days.  The  relief  is  instan- 
taneous and  the  corn  will  disappear. 

FOR  THE  PIANO— Place  a  small  bag  of  unslacked  lime 
inside  the  piano;  it  will  keep  the  springs  and  metal  from 
rusting. 

TO  CURE  BEE  STINGS— A  physician  advises  that  the 
best  remedy  for  bee  stings  is  to  apply  oil  of  cinnamon  with  a 
small  brush.  It  will  slightly  blister,  but  immediately  draw 
out  the  poison. 

REMOVING  GREASE— Eucalyptus  oil  will  remove 
grease  or  oil  from  any  fabric,  no  matter  how  delicate,  and 
best  results  are  obtained  by  gently  sponging  the  soiled  parts. 

CLEANING  WALL  PAPER— To  remove  grease  spots 
from  wall  paper,  dip  a  piece  of  flannel  in  spirits  of  wine  and 
rub  the  spot  very  gently. 

FOR  SEASICKNESS— Eating  bread  and  butter  which 
has  been  thickly  sprinkled  with  cayenne  pepper  is  recom- 


HOUSEHOLD  HINTS  211 

mended  by  many  physicians  as  an  effective  means  of  pre- 
venting seasickness. 

NEW  USE  FOR  PARSLEY— If  when  making  soups  or 
stews  you  find  the  flavor  of  some  one  vegetable  too  strong, 
you  can  neutraHze  it  by  adding  a  sprig  or  two  of  parsley. 

TO  MAKE  GLUE  MOIST— Dried  up  glue  can  be  made 
moist'and  fit  for  use  by  the  addition  of  a  little  vinegar. 

A  VALUABLE  CLEANSER— The  juice  of  raw  potatoes 
is  excellent  for  removing  stains  from  the  hands  and  from 
woolen  fabrics. 

TO  MAKE  CLOTHES  WHITE— Placing  a  slice  of 
lemon  rind  in  the  boiler  when  boiling  clothes  will  help  make 
them  white. 

CURE  FOR  HICCOUGHS— A  teaspoonful  of  sugar 
moistened  with  vinegar  and  eaten  slowly  will  often  stop 
hiccoughs. 

TO  PREVENT  SPATTERS  OF  FAT— To  prevent  lard 
or  butter  from  spattering  when  eggs  or  potatoes  are  dropped 
in  to  fry,  sift  a  little  flour  in  the  fat  just  before  putting  it  on 
the  stove. 

FOR  IVY  POISONING— One  of  the  best  remedies  for 
ivy  poisoning  is  to  rub  the  afllicted  parts  with  slices  of  raw 
onion. 

USES  OF  POTATO 

To  Clean  A  Vinegar  Cruet — Fill  the  cruet  with  finely 
chopped  potato  skin;  cork  tightly  and  let  stand  in  a  warm 
place  three  days.  Then  turn  the  skins  out  and  rinse  the 
cruet  with  warm  water  and  borax. 

To  Cleanse  Rusty  Knives — Use  a  raw  potato  dipped 
in  brick  dust. 

To  Kindle  Fires — Potato  parings,  dried  in  the  oven, 
are  good  to  kindle  fires,  as  they  light  easily. 

To  Clean  Carpets — Grate  a  raw  potato  and  rub  over 
the  surface  of  the  carpet  and  finish  off  with  a  clean  cloth, 
wrung  out  with  warm  water. 

To  Clean  Dresses — Grate  two  raw  potatoes  into  a  pint 
of  cold  water;    strain  through  a  sieve;    add  another  pint  of 


212  P.  E.  0.  COOK  BOOK 

water  and  let  it  settle;  then  pour  the  clean  part  into  a 
bottle.  Dip  a  sponge  into  the  water  and  rub  the  soiled 
garment  carefully,  afterward  rinsing  with  clear  water. 

To  Clarify  Drippings — Slice  a  raw  potato  into  the  fat 
while  rendering.     It  will  absorb  all  impurities. 

To  Make  Light  Bread — Mash  a  boiled  potato  and  add 
to  the  flour. 

For  Corned  Beef  Hash — Chop  a  raw  potato  and  add  to 
the  meat. 

To  Cleanse  Silk  from  Mud  Spots — After  washing 
thoroughly,  rub  soiled  places  with  a  raw  potato. 

When  a  Fern  Turns  Yellow — Slice  a  raw  potato  and 
put  it  on  top  of  the  soil.     This  will  draw  out  the  worms. 

To  Remove  Paint  from  Windows — Use  sal  soda  the 
same  as  you  would  Bon-Ami  for  cleaning  them. 

1  ABLE  OF  MEASURES 

Sixty  drops  make  a  tablespoon. 
Three  teaspoons  equal  one  table  spoon. 
Eight  rounded   tablespoons  of  dry  material  equal  one 
cupful. 

Sixteen  tablespoons  of  liquid  equal  one  cupful. 

One  cup  of  liquid  is  one-half  pint. 

One  heaping  tablespoon  is  one  ovince. 

One  heaping  tablespoon  of  butter  is  two  ounces. 

One  cup  of  butter  or  sugar  is  half  pound. 

Two  cups  of  flour  is  a  pound. 

One  cup  of  rice  is  one-half  pound. 

One  cup  of  bread  crumbs  is  two  ounces. 

One  pint  of  ordinary  liquid  is  one  pound. 


INDEX 

Beverages 193-197 

Bread 22-31 

Cakes 146-167 

Cake  Fillings 168-170 

Candies 181-192 

Cocktails     . i^-6 

Cookies 171-180 

Desserts 132-142 

Frozen  Desserts 143-14  i; 

Fish  and  Entrees 14-21 

Household  Hints ".     .  208-212 

Lenten  Dishes 198-203 

^^""'^ 32-55 

Pastry 1 25-131 

Pickles 109-118 

Preserves  and  Jellies 1 19-124 

Salads 94-108 

Sandwiches 204-207 

Soups 7-13 

Vegetables .  56-93 


e    '■ 


,41-? 


^.     0^    ^" 


/f  /I    ^^ — ^ —    <i 


n 


'^  ^'-'  <-^,i:'_.^l^^    >^    <f!:^^->^^ 


p:^!^^^-^-^ 


UNIVERSITY  OF  ILLINOIS-URBANA 


3  01 


2  083354719 


^*  i    i"^'' 


vW, 


