THE 

?EOK\A        wq  meat's 

CooK 
BooK 


641.509773 
P39 


THE 

PEORIA  WOMEN'S 

COOK 
BOOK 


( 


UNIVERSITY  OF 

ILLINOIS  LIBRARY 

AT  URBANA  CHAMPAIGN 

OAK  STREET 

LIBRARY  FACILITY 


WOODRUFF 


EC 


COMPANY 


Office  1420  N.  Adams  St.  Both  Phones  Main  397 


CORNER  BOOK  SHOP 


"Wisdom  selects  it;  our  name  protects  it" 

Sleyman  Art  Shop 

Phone  Main  4503  508  Main  Street 


ORIENTAL  RUGS 

And  things  out  of  the  ordinary  in 

ART  CRAFT 

Cleaning  and  repairing  of  Oriental  and  Domestic  Rugs 
executed  by  experts. 

Shredded  Wheat  Dishes 

A  dainty,  wholesome,  appetizing  meal  can  be  prepared  with 
Shredded  Wheat  Biscuit  "in  a  jiffy."  It  is  ready-cooked  and  ready- 
to-serve.  You  can  do  things  with  it  that  are  not  possible  with  any 
other  "breakfast  food."  It  is  the  only  cereal  food  made  in  Biscuit 
form.  It  is  delicious  when  combined  with  berries,  sliced  bananas, 
baked  apples,  stewed  prunes  or  other  fresh  or  preserved  fruits. 

For  breakfast  heat  the  Bis- 
cuit in  the  oven  to  restore 
crispness.  Pour  over  it  hot 
milk,  adding  a  little  cream  and 
a  dash  of  salt.  Triscuit,  the 
Shredded  Wheat  Wafer,  is 
^i  p>  eaten  as  a  toast  for  luncheon 

or  any  other  meal  with  butter, 
cheese  or  marmalades.  Our 
new  book,  "Shredded  Wheat 
Dishes,"  is  sent  free  for  the 
asking. 

SEE  SHREDDED  WHEAT  RECIPES  IN  THIS  BOOK 


FIRST  METHODIST  EPISCOPAL  CHURCH 

Corner  Perry  Avenue  and  Hamilton  Boulevard 
PEORIA.  ILLINOIS 


PEORIA   WOMEN'S 

COOK  BOOK 


Compiled  by  the 

Members  of  the  Young  Women's  League 

of  the 

First  Methodist  Episcopal  Church 

Peoria,  Illinois 


M 


Good  Cooks  are  born,  not  made,  they  say. 

The  saying  is  not  true; 
Hard  trying  and  these  tried  recipes 

Will  make  good  cooks  of  you. 

—T.  G.  Lowry 


1915 


J.   W.    FRANKS    &   SONS 

PRINTERS 

PEORIA,  ILLINOIS 


PREFACE 

The  Peoria  Women's  Cook  Book  has  been  compiled  and  published 
by  the  young  women  of  this  society  in  order  to  raise  funds  for  our  pledge 
to  the  new  Church  enterprise. 

An  attempt  has  been  made  to  secure  recipes  from  as  many  as  possible 
of  Peoria's  representative  women.  It  is  a  matter  of  regret  that  many  choice 
recipes  have  been  unavoidably  ommitted  for  lack  of  space  and  others  on 
account  of  similarity  to  those  already  received. 

Among  the  recipes  are  a  number  of  originals  which  have  not  hereto- 
fore been  published.  All  have  been  tested  and  recommended  by  those 
whose  names  are  signed. 

The  compilers  express  their  appreciation  to  those  who  have  contributed 
material;  to  all  others  who  have  given  of  their  time  to  help  make  the  book 
possible. 

We  recommend  for  patronage  the  professional  men,  manufacturers  and 
business  men  whose  advertisements  appear  and  suggest  that  in  dealing  with 
them  this  book  be  mentioned. 

THE  YOUNG  WOMEN'S  LEAGUE 
of  the  FIRST  M.  E.  CHURCH, 

Peoria,  Illinois. 


SOUPS 

Muse,  sing  the  man  who  did  to  Paris  go, 

That  he  might  taste  their  soups  and  mushrooms  know. —  W.  King. 


SOUP  STOCK. 

To  each  quart  of  cold  water  allow  one  pound  of  meat  and  bone 
in  about  equal  proportions;  one  pint  of  cleaned  vegetables,  such  as  carrot, 
onion,  celery,  etc.,  cut  in  pieces;  one  bunch  of  soup  herbs,  being  a  sprig 
of  parsley,  two  bay  leaves,  and  any  dry  herbs  of  which  the  flavor  is  desired; 
seasoning  of  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  together  with  a  little  celery  seed  if 
fresh  celery  is  not  in  season. 

Wipe  the  meat,  and  cut  into  small  pieces,  chop  the  bones,  and  add, 
together  with  the  vegetables  and  soup  herbs.  Pour  the  water,  which  must 
be  cold,  over  them,  and  bring  very  slowly  to  the  boiling  point ;  skim  if  neces- 
sary, and  cook  slowly  for  six  hours,  keeping  the  stock-pot  closely  covered. 
Then  strain  the  stock  and  leave  uncovered  in  a  cool  place  till  cold.  Then 
remove  the  fat.     Do  not  allow  it  to  stand  in  the  stock-pot. 


CONSOMME. 
1    lb.  knuckle  of  veal.  1    lb.  knuckle  of  beef. 

5   or  6  cups  water. 

Wash  and  wipe  meat.  Cut  all  meat  into  small  dice,  break  the  bones, 
add  the  water,  and  let  stand  1  hour.  Put  on  fire  and  let  simmer  3  hours, 
or  put  in  fireless  cooker  over  night.  Remove  from  fire,  strain,  let  stand  until 
fat  hardens,  remove  fat,  season,  clear,  reheat,  and  serve.  Clear  by  allow- 
ing a  white  and  shell  of  one  egg  to  each  quart  of  stock.  Beat  egg  slightly, 
break  shell  in  small  pieces  and  add  to  stock.  Place  on  fire  and  stir  con- 
stantly until  boiling.  Boil  2  minutes.  Set  back  where  it  can  simmer  5 
minutes.  Remove  scum  and  strain  thru  two  thickness  of  cheesecloth  placed 
over  a  small  strainer. — Mrs.  Moorehead. 


BOUILLON. 
3  lbs.  beef.  Salt  and  pepper. 

2   quarts  water. 

Cut  the  meat  in  small  pieces;  add  the  cold  water;  heat  slowly  and 
simmer  5  hours,  then  strain  through  a  fine  sieve;  season  to  taste  and  when 
cold  remove  the  fat  that  has  formed.  Should  there  be  more  than  1 0  cups, 
reduce  to  that  quantity.     To  be  served  hot. — Mrs.  O.  B.  Edmonson. 


M  NATIONAL  OATS 


you  can  taste  the  difference 


THREE  BIG  MILLS 
East  St.  Louis  Peoria  Cedar  Rapids 


(-  Per  Package 
C  At  Your  Dealer 


i  FLIES,  COCKROACHES,  MOTHS,  BED  BUGS 

Fleas,  Animal  and  Plant  Lice,  Mosquitoes,  Ants,  and  all  insect  life.    It  is  a  vegetable 

"Powder.   Absolutely  harmless  to  children,  adults  or  domestic  animals.    The  only  insecticide 

packed  in  the  patented  bellows  box,  always  ready  and  easy  to  use.  Get  a  box  today  and  rid  the 

house  of  all  insects.    10c  package  at  your  dealer  or  two  packages  postpaid  for  25c  from  us. 

ALLAIRE,  WOODWARD  &C0.,       Main  St.,  Peoria,  I1L  DEALERS:  All  Drug  Jobbers  Sell  El  Vampir© 


Gauss  Undertaking  Co. 


Both  Phones  514 
708  MAIN  STREET 


Dr.  E.  W.  Oliver PHYSICIANS  IN  CHARGE Dr.  0.  B.  Edmonson 

THE  PEORIA  MUD  BATHS 

Treating    Rheumatism 
and  Similar  Complaints 

Einstein,  vot  is  already  causing  your  rheumatiz? 

Ach,  Louie,  Mein  Frau  she  is  trying  dot  Methodist  Cook  Book. 


PEORIA  WOMEN'S  COOK  BOOK 


CANNED  VEGETABLES  FOR  SOUP. 
1    pk.  of  tomatoes,  2  heads  of  white  cabbage, 

1    doz.  carrots,  1    bunch  of  parsley, 

1    doz.  onions,  3   stalks  of  celery, 

I  Yl  doz.  ears  °f  corn, 

Chop  vegetables  not  too  fine,  add  small  handful  of  salt  to  every  gal. 
Boil  until  carrots  are  soft,  and  can  hot.  Add  this  to  beef  stock  in  winter. 
It  makes  fine  soup.     This  makes  about  1 6  or  18  pts. 

Mrs.  George  Washburn,  Columbus,  Ohio. 


SOUP  CROUTONS. 
Cut  stale  bread,  without  crust,  into  half-inch  cubes  and  fry  golden 
brown  in  hot  fat.     Or  cut  slices  of  buttered  bread  into  cubes  and  crisp  m  a 
hot  oven,     either  drop  into  the  soup  just  before  serving,  or  hand  with  it. 


RICE  TOMATO  SOUP.      (Original.) 
Prepare  two  quarts  of  good  stock.      I  prefer  a  shank  bone  and  a 

ham  bone  for  the  stock.     Cook  together  slowly  for  Yl  nour  tne  following: 

1    quart  tomatoes,  1    stalk  celery, 

1    small  red  pepper,  Yl  teaspoon  cinnamon, 

Good  pinch  nutmeg,  Yl  teaspoon  sage 

Small  bay  leaf,  5  or  6  cloves. 

Strain  and  add  to  the  soup  stock  which  has  been  strained  also.    Cook 

Ya   cup  °f  rice  an(^  add  to   the  above  mixture.      Thicken  slightly  with 

cornstarch  or  arrow-root.     Let  it  boil  up  thoroughly,  salt  to  taste  and  serve 

with  croutons. — Mrs.  John  E.  Keene. 


GROUND  MEAT  SOUP. 

1  Yl   lbs-  ground  steak  with  fat  and  celery. 
Yl   head  cabbage,  2  large  onions, 

2  carrots,  put  through  grinder. 

Place  in  soup  kettle,  boil  gently  one  hour,  then  add  2  big  potatoes 
ground. 

Yl  cup  rice  which  has  been  soaked. 

Cook  20  minutes,   then  add  small  can  tomatoes,  can  peas,   parsley 
cut  small. 

Let  simmer  Yl  hour,  season  well  and  serve. — Mrs.  C.  E.  Beckwith. 


10  PEORIA  WOMEN'S  COOK  BOOK 

POTATO  SOUP. 
Three  medium  sized  potatoes,  washed,  pared  and  cooked  in  salt  water. 
Drain,  rub  through  strainer.  Make  a  thin  white  sauce  in  double  boiler  of 
one  pint  milk,  1  tablespoon  flour,  2  tablespoons  butter,  1  tablespoon  minced 
onion,  1  teaspoon  salt,  few  grains  of  pepper,  cook  1  0  minutes,  add  one-half 
teaspoon  celery  salt.     Mix  this  with  strained  potatoes. 

Mrs.  E.  F.  Washburn. 


CREAM  OF  TOMATO  SOUP  FOR  FOUR. 
Tomato  Puree,  1  cup,  1   teaspoon  butter,  size  of  walnut. 

Milk,  3  cups,  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

Flour 

Cream  the  flour  until  smooth  and  stir  into  milk.  Boil  milk  and  tomato 
in  separate  pans  and  when  both  are  boiling  hot,  pour  the  milk  into  the 
tomato.  Add  butter,  salt  and  pepper.  One  or  two  cubes  of  Boullion 
improves  the  flavor  of  this  soup. — Mrs.  W.  B.  Short. 


CREAM  CORN  SOUP. 
1    can  of  corn,  1    very  small  onion, 

1    quart  of  milk,  celery  tops. 

Cook  all  together  in  a  double  boiler  for  Yl  hour.  Press  through 
sieve  to  get  all  the  pulp  possible. 

Rub  together  1  tablespoon  butter  and  a  tablespoon  of  flour.  Add 
this  to  milk  and  reheat.  When  ready  to  serve  add  salt  and  white  pepper  to 
taste.  Put  one  or  two  shredded  blanched  almonds  in  bottom  of  soup  dish, 
and  on  top  of  soup  some  whipped  cream.  A  small  piece  of  pimento  on 
top  of  the  cream  adds  to  the  attractiveness  of  the  dish. 

Mrs.  Wilson  Oakford. 


CREAM  OF  SALSIFY  SOUR 
Cook  two  cups  of  cleaned  diced  salsify  root,  a  medium  sized  onion 
sliced,  a  stalk  of  celery  and  a  ■  sprig  of  parsley  in  a  quart  of  water  until 
tender.  Drain  and  press  through  sieve.  Prepare  one  pint  of  white  sauce 
for  every  cup  of  the  puree.  Make  the  white  sauce  from  two  tablespoons 
each  of  butter  and  flour,  half  a  teaspoon  of  salt  and  a  salt  spoon  of  pepper 
and  one  pint  of  milk;  add  the  puree,  one  cup  of  milk  and  one  cup  of  liquid 
drained  from  the  salsify,  and  season  to  taste.  This  is  a  fine  soup  to  serve 
with  a  turkey  dinner.  Its  flavor  is  more  delicate  than  that  of  the  real 
oyster. — Mrs.  M.  L.  Fuller. 


PEORIA  WOMEN'S  COOK  BOOK  11 

CELERY  SOUP. 

1  cup  diced  celery, 

2  cups  water. 

Boil  until  tender.     Make  a  white  sauce  of  1   cup  milk,  1   tablespoon 
flour,  I  tablespoon  butter.     Add  celery.     Serve  hot. — Mrs.  Moorehead. 


CREAM  OF  PEA  SOUP. 
I    can  of  peas,  1    qt.  of  milk, 

1  pt.  boiling  water,  1   teaspoon  of  butter, 

2  heaping   teaspoons   of  cornstarch,      Ya  teaspoon  of  beef  extract. 

Salt,  pepper,  onion  juice  or  a  little  grated  onion.  Mash  half  the  peas, 
heat  all  with  the  liquor.  Put  other  ingredients  in  double  boiler,  mix  in  corn- 
starch with  a  little  cold  milk.  Cook  a  few  minutes,  then  add  peas.  Serve 
at  once. — Mrs.  Ruth  Beach  Howes. 


CREAM  OF  ASPARAGUS  SOUP. 
For  making  two  quarts  of  soup,  use  two  bundles  of  fresh  asparagus 
cut  the  tops  from  one  of  the  bunches  and  cook  them  twenty  minutes  in 
salted  water,  enough  to  cover  them.  Cook  the  remainder  of  the  asparagus 
about  twenty  minutes  in  a  quart  of  stock  or  water.  Cut  one  onion  into  thin 
slices  and  fry  in  three  tablespoons  of  butter  ten  minutes,  being  careful  not 
to  scorch  it.  Then  add  the  asparagus  that  has  been  boiled  in  the  stock, 
cook  this  five  minutes,  stirring  constantly;  then  add  one  tablespoon  of  dis- 
solved flour  and  cook  five  minutes  longer.  Turn  this  mixture  into  the 
boiling  stock  and  boil  twenty  minutes.  Rub  through  a  sieve,  add  the  cream 
and  milk  and  the  asparagus  heads.  If  water  is  used  in  place  of  stock, 
use  all  cream. — Mrs.  I.  J.  Stanley. 


CREAM  OF  VEGETABLE  SOUP. 
For  our  soup  we  have  quite  a  few  leftovers.  A  spoonful  of  potatoes,  a 
half  cup  of  the  different  soups,  a  little  cabbage,  some  gravy,  put  them  all 
into  a  small  saucepan.  Any  little  left  over  meat  can  be  used.  Add  two 
cups  of  hot  water,  a  little  onion  juice  and  heat  through;  rub  one  teaspoon 
of  butter  with  one  teaspoon  of  flour  until  smooth  and  add  to  the  soup.  You 
can  strain  and  mash  through  strainer  and  serve  in  cups,  or  leave  all  the 
vegetables  in  and  add  one  teaspoon  of  chopped  parsley  and  serve  in  plates. 


Quality  Foods 

The  value  of  a  good  recipe  is  greatly  enhanced 
by  the  use  of  superior  materials. 

For  more  than  fifty  years  we  have  endeavored  to 
excell  in  the  quality  of  our  food  products. 

Richelieu 
Ferndell  and  Batavia 

Brands  of 

Food  Products 

are  prepared  from  the  finest  materials  obtainable  in 
the  markets  of  the  world. 

Under  these  brands  can  be  secured  practically 
all  the  ingredients  mentioned  in  this  book  and  each 
and  every  article  of  the  highest  quality. 

For  purity,  quality,  delicacy,  natural  flavor  and 
greatest  food  value  these  brands  of  pure  foods  will 
fully  meet  the  demands  of  the  most  discriminating 
consumers. 

Sprague,  Warner  &  Company 

Chicago 


PEORIA  WOMEN'S  COOK  BOOK  13 

CREAM  OF  CARROT  SOUP. 

Four  carrots  or  two  cups  cut  carrots,  two  teaspoons  salt,  two  cups  of 
milk,  one  tablespoon  butter,  one  tablespoon  of  finely  cut  onion,  one  table- 
spoon of  flour,  one  tablespoon  chopped  parsley,  one-fourth  teaspoon  of 
pepper. 

Wash  and  scrape  carrots,  cut  into  pieces,  put  on  in  boiling  water 
enough  to  cover,  add  one  teaspoon  of  salt.  Boil  thirty  or  forty  minutes, 
or  until  tender.  Drain  and  mash  through  fine  strainer.  Have  the  milk  in 
the  top  of  double  boiler  and  as  soon  as  it  boils  add  the  carrot.  Put  the 
butter  and  onion  into  a  frying  pan,  add  the  flour,  stir  until  smooth,  then  add 
two  cups  of  water  in  which  the  carrots  were  cooked;  stir  until  smooth  and 
creamy  and  add  to  the  milk  and  carrot.  Strain  and  add  the  balance  of 
the  salt,  pepper  and  parsley.     Cook  three  minutes. 

Mrs.  Laura  Leist,  Paris,  111. 


PHILIP  HOERR 

GROCERIES  AND  MEATS 

324  BRADLEY  AVE. 

Call  Main  103  and  Main  104  for  Quality  and  Service. 
PRICE  ALWAYS  RIGHT. 

Wm.  C.  Houser 

FOR  THINGS  GOOD  TO  EAT 

FRESH  AND  CURED  MEATS,  POULTRY 
FINE  CORNED  BEEF  A  SPECIALTY 

Bell  Phone  180  1716  KNOXVILLE  AVE.  Int.  Phone  180 

CHAS.  SEHMER  &  SON 

THE  GODEL  MARKET 

Wholesalers  and  Retailers  of 

FRESH,  SALTED  and  SMOKED  MEATS 
SAUSAGES  and  LARD 

U.  S.  INSPECTED  MEATS  ONLY 

Telephone  85,  both  phones     219  N.  Adams  St.,  Peoria,  111. 
TO  BE  SURE  OF  SUCCESS   YOU  MUST  USE 

Palace  Brand 
Butter 

BUTTER  PALACE  531  MAIN  STREET 


FISH  AND  OYSTERS 

Lest  Men  suspect  your  tale  untrue, 
Keep  probability  in  view.— John  Gay. 


TO  BAKE  FISH. 
Have  the  fish  well  washed,  and  if  it  is  haddock,  small  cod  or  any  small 
whole  fish,  the  black  skin  on  the  inside  can  be  removed  by  rubbing  briskly 
with  a  cloth  or  small  brush  dipped  in  salt.  Dry  and  lay  either  flat  or  fasten- 
ed with  thread  or  skewers  in  the  form  of  the  letter  "S",  in  a  well-greased 
taking  pan,  preferably  one  kept  for  the  purpose;  dredge  with  flour  and  put 
a  little  dripping  or  brown  fat  over  the  top.  If  the  oven  is  very  hot,  cover 
the  fish  with  a  greased  paper  during  the  first  part  of  the  baking  to  prevent  its 
becoming  too  brown.  Baste  frequently  with  the  fat  that  is  in  the  pan, 
adding  more  if  needed.  Unless  the  fish  is  well  basted  it  is  likely  to  be  dry. 
Serve  with  a  sauce  or  gravy. — Mrs.  J.  H.  Stephenson,  Danvers,  III. 


FINNAN  HADDIE. 

Break  1  Yl  lbs.  °f  nsn  m  large  pieces  and  braze.     If  very  salty  soak 
in  cold  water  for  2  hours. 

After  brazing,  break  into  small  pieces.     Make  a  cream  sauce  and  add 
the  following: 

Yolk  of  1    egg,  A  little  grated  cheese, 

1  hard  boiled  egg,  A  little  papricka. 

Chopped  parsley.      Cover  the  top   with   bread  crumbs  and   cheese. 
Bake. — Mrs.  Harry  S.  Haskins. 


HOLLANDAISE  SAUCE  FOR  BAKED  FISH. 
1/2  cup  of  butter,  Yolks  of  2  eggs, 

Juice  of  lemon,  7  saltspoons  of  cayenne  pepper. 

Yl  cup  of  boiling  water, 

Rub  the  butter  to  a  cream  with  a  spoon  add  the  yolks  one  at  a  time 
and  beat  well,  then  add  lemon  juice,  salt  and  pepper.  Place  in  a  bowl  in 
a  pan  of  boiling  water  and  stir  rapidly  until  it  thickens  like  boiled  custard. 
Pour  the  sauce  around  fish. — Genieve  Kullmer. 


16  PEORIA  WOMEN'S  COOK  BOOK 

BAKED  TUNA  FISH. 
1  lb.  can  tuna  fish,  3  eggs, 

1/2  cup  soft  bread  crumbs,  2  teaspoon  lemon  juice, 

1    tablespoon  melted  butter,  Yl  teaspoon  salt. 

Y&  teaspoon  pepper, 

Chop  fish  fine,  all  egg  yolks  and  seasoning,  fold  in  egg  whites  beaten 
stiff.     Bake  in  buttered  tin  for  35  minutes.— Mrs.  Albert  Van  Home. 


BAKED  SALMON, 
can  salmon,  1    tablespoon   butter, 

pint  milk,  1    cup  bread  crumbs, 

tablespoon  flour.  Salt  and  pepper. 

Bake  fifteen  minutes. — Mrs.  Emilie  Timken  Murdock,  Omaha,  Neb. 


TARTARRE  SAUCE  FOR  FISH, 
cup  French  dressing  (without  2  hard  boiled  eggs, 

cream)  1    sour  pickle, 

tablespoons  parsley  (finely  1    small  white  onion, 

chopped)  Capers  may  be  added. 


Mrs.  C.  E.  Beckwith. 


SALMON  OR  TUNA  FISH  OMELET.  (Original.) 
A  delicious  breakfast  course  or  meat  course  for  a  hurried  luncheon. 
To  one-half  pint  can  of  salmon  or  tuna  fish  crushed  to  a  smooth  paste, 
add  two  well  beaten  eggs,  stir  to  a  consistency  of  smooth  batter,  season  with 
salt  and  pepper  and  fry  like  an  egg  omelet.  When  browned,  roll  simulating 
a  baked  fish,  place  on  a  platter  and  garnish  with  butter  sauce  and  slices  of 
lemon. — Mrs.  W.  A.  Hinckle. 


SHATTUCK  HALIBUT. 
1 1/2  lbs.  sliced  chicken  halibut.  Wipe  with  cold  cloth  and  put  in 
buttered  baking  pan,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper.  Arrange  on  top  Ya 
inch  slices  cut  from  peeled  medium  sized  tomatoes;  then  sprinkle  with  one- 
third  cup  of  thin  strips  of  green  pepper  cut  lengthwise,  from  which  seeds 
have  been  removed.  Bake  in  hot  oven  25  minutes,  basting  4  times  during 
the  baking,  using  for  the  first  basting  one-third  cup  melted  butter  and 
afterwards  the  liquid  in  the  pan.     Garnish  and  serve. — Mrs.  M.  J.  Grieves. 


PEORIA  WOMEN'S  COOK  BOOK ]_7 

A  NEW  DISH  ORIGINATED  BY  MILO  PROCHAZKA. 

DEVILLED  CRAB. 
Take  one  pound  of  fresh  crab  meat,  or  one  pound  can  of  Japanese 
crab  meat  (at  any  grocers).  Pull  apart  and  take  out  the  string.  Chop 
medium,  three  hard  boiled  eggs,  one-half  small  onion,  one  small  green  pep- 
per, two  pimentoes.  Put  three-fourths  cup  of  butter  in  a  pan.  Add  green 
peppers  and  onion  and  two  tablespoons  of  flour;  cook  five  minutes;  then 
add  crab  meat,  eggs  and  pimentoes,  and  a  dash  or  two  of  tabasco  sauce, 
salt  and  paprica.  Cook  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes.  Stir  while  cooking. 
You  can  serve  in  natural  shells  or  on  toast.  Sprinkle  top  with  cracker  meal 
and  butter  and  put  in  hot  oven  to  warm  through. 


CURRIED  CRAB. 
Cut  the  crab  meat  into  small  pieces.  Take  butter  the  size  of  an  egg, 
add  a  teaspoonful  of  chopped  onion  or  shallot.  Fry  to  a  golden  brown. 
Add  a  heaping  teaspoonful  of  flour  and  a  small  teaspoonful  of  curry  powder, 
stirring  into  the  butter  and  onion  until  thoroughly  mixed.  Add  the  crab 
meat  and  simmer  slowly  for  about  five  minutes.     Serve  with  boiled  rice. 

Mrs.  L.  E.  Sutherland. 


OYSTER  LOAF. 
Take  a  five  cent  loaf  of  bread.  Cut  the  top  off  like  a  slice  of  bread. 
With  a  sharp  knife  work  loose  the  center,  taking  care  to  remove  it  whole. 
Now  butter  the  inside  of  the  loaf  also  the  piece  taken  out  and  place  in  oven 
to  toast  a  nice  brown.  Have  ready  1  dozen  oysters,  rolled  in  egg  and 
cracker  crumbs  and  fried  in  butter.  Take  the  bread  from  the  oven,  put  in  a 
layer  of  oysters,  a  layer  of  thinly  sliced  dill  pickles,  and  the  hearts  of  celery, 
cut  in  small  pieces.  Make  alternate  layers  until  you  have  filled  the  loaf, 
being  sure  to  have  oysters  on  top.  Place  top  on  loaf  and  it  is  ready  to 
serve.  Place  on  hot  platter  and  serve  the  center  of  the  bread  as  toast  with 
the  loaf.     Cut  as  you  would  slice  bread. — Sadie  McBride. 


ESCALLOPED  OYSTERS. 

Twenty-five  oysters,  two  tablespoonfuls  butter,  two  cups  of  bread 
crumbs,  one  cup  milk,  one-half  teaspoonful  salt,  a  dash  of  pepper. 

Butter  four  individual  baking  dishes,  cover  the  bottom  with  bread 
crumbs,  lay  in  six  oysters,  dust  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  place  a  small 
piece  of  butter  on  each;  cover  with  bread  crumbs  and  one  tablespoonful 
milk.     Bake  ten  minutes  in  very  hot  oven. 

2 


18  PEORIA  WOMEN'S  COOK  BOOK 

ESCALLOPED  OYSTERS. 
2  cups  of  cracker  crumbs,  1    cup  of  bread  crumbs, 

1    qt.  of  oysters,  2   tablespoons  liquor  or  milk, 

1    cup  butter, 

Mix  butter  and  crumbs  together,  butter  pan,  put  a  layer  of  crumbs, 
then  a  layer  of  oysters,  pepper  and  salt,  continue  with  alternate  layers  of  each, 
having  not  more  than  2  or  3  layers  in  pan,  and  having  the  buttered  crumbs 
on  top,  bake  one  hour. — Mrs.  F.  Kullmer. 


CREAMED  OYSTERS. 

Prepare  1  cup  thick  cream  sauce.  Pan  1  pint  cleaned  oysters;  drain 
and  add  to  sauce.  Season  with  salt,  pepper,  pinch  of  mace,  and  few  drops 
lemon  juice. 

WHITE  SAUCE. 

Blend  two  level  tablespoons  each  of  flour  and  butter,  cook  for  a  few 
minutes  in  a  saucepan ;  gradually  add  one  cup  of  milk.  Cook  for  at  least  ten 
minutes,  stirring  constantly.  Add  seasoning  of  salt  and  paprika.  If  too 
thick  use  more  milk.  If  sauce  becomes  lumpy  when  adding  milk,  remove 
from  fire  and  beat  vigorously. — Mrs.  W.  E.  Shaw. 


OYSTERS  CODDLED  IN  RAMEQUINS. 
From  slices  of  bread  half  an  inch  thick,  stamp  out  pieces  of  bread 
the  size  of  the  ramequins;  toast  and  butter  them  and  set  one  in  each  rame- 
quin,  above  these  dispose  a  layer  of  oysters,  carefully  washed  and  freed  from 
bits  of  shell;  sprinkle  the  oysters  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  pour  over  them 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  cream  sauce  (see  creamed  oysters)  made  with  milk 
or  cream.  Sprinkle  the  contents  of  each  dish  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
cracker  crumbs,  mixed  with  butter.  Cook  in  the  oven  (not  in  a  dish  of 
hot  water),  about  eight  minutes,  or  until  the  crumbs  are  well  browned,  and 
send  at  once  to  the  table. 


LOBSTER  MEXICIANE. 
Boil  three  lobsters,  take  out  meat  from  tail  and  cut  into  pieces  half  an 
inch  thick.     Saute  in  pan  of  butter,  add  tomatoes,  rice,  red  peppers  and 
simmer  about  ten  minutes.     Serve  in  chafing  dish  after  seasoning  to  taste. 
A  quantity  sufficient  for  three  persons. 


PEORIA  WOMEN'S  COOK  BOOK  19 

OYSTER  FRICASSEE. 
1   pint  oysters,  Y*  teaspoon  salt. 

Milk  or  cream,  Paprika, 

1  Yl  tablespoons  butter,  1   teaspoon  chopped  parsley, 

1  Yl  tablespoons  flour,  1  egg  yolk. 

Prepare  oysters  as  for  stew.  Remove  oysters  and  to  the  liquid  in 
which  they  were  cooked,  add  enough  milk  or  cream  to  make  one  cup  of 
liquid.  From  this  liquid  make  a  white  sauce,  adding  to  it  the  egg,  season- 
ing and  oysters.     Serve  on  toast. — Mrs.  J.  J.  Goodrich. 


OYSTER  COCKTAIL. 
In  each  individual  glass  mix  thoroughly  the  following: 
Yl  teaspoon  of  lemon  juice,  A  pinch  of  salt,  black  and  cayenne 

3  drops  of  tobasco  sauce,  pepper,  also  a  little  of  the  oyster 

2  teaspoons  of  good  tomato  catsup,  liquor. 

Half  an  hour  before  serving  place  5  or  6  fresh  oysters,  Standard  or 
Blue  points,  in  each  glass,  mix  and  keep  in  a  cool  place  until  served.  An 
addition  of  Yl  teaspoon  of  horse  radish  in  each  glass  improves  it  very  much. 

Mrs.  F.  Kullmer. 


OYSTER  COCKTAIL. 
Juice  of  3  lemons,  Yl  glass  horse  radish, 

Yl  bottle  catsup,  1  teaspoon  salt. 

Pinch  of  pepper, 

An  hour  or  so  before  serving  wash  and  drain   1   qt.  oysters,  put  in 
and  set  away  in  cool  place.     This  can  be  varied  to  suit  individual  tastes. 

Mrs.  Walter  Wyatt. 


SHREDDED  WHEAT  OYSTER,  MEAT  OR  VEGETABLE 

PATTIES. 
Cut  oblong  cavity  in  top  of  biscuit,  remove  top  carefully  and  all  in- 
side shreds,  forming  a  shell.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  put  small  pieces 
of  butter  in  bottom,  and  fill  the  shell  with  drained,  picked  and  washed 
oysters.  Season  with  additional  salt  and  pepper.  Replace  top  of  biscuit 
over  oysters,  then  bits  of  butter  on  top.  Place  in  a  covered  pan  and  bake 
in  a  moderate  oven.  Pour  oyster  liquor  or  cream  sauce  over  it.  Shell  fish, 
vegetables,  or  meats  may  also  be  used. 


GOOD    RESULTS 

are  what  we  are  looking  for,  be  it  Church  work,  National  or 
City  Government,  Business  or  even  baking  bread  and  pastry. 
For  best  results  in  bread  baking  use  LARABEE'S  BEST 
FLOUR  and  self-rising  BISFLO  prepared  flour  for  biscuits 
and  pastry. 

NELSON    <&    FINCH,   Distributors 


James  Huxtable 

THE  TAILOR 

IMPORTED   AND   DOMESTIC 

WOOLENS 


Telephone  1076 
101  South  Madison  PEORIA,  ILL. 

QUALITY 

Our  Stock  contains  a  full  assortment  of  such  articles  as  appeal 
to  the  best  taste. 

Quality,  Prompt  Service  and  Courteous  Treatment 

Exclusive  Agents  for  Chase  and  Sandborn's  Coffees  and  Teas 

C.  P.  RAYMOND,       1718  Knoxville  Ave. 


PEORIA  WOMEN'S  COOK  BOOK 


21 


CRAB  COCKTAIL. 

Very  appetizing  first  course. 

1  lb.  can  crab  meat,  half  as  much  celery  hearts,  cut  small,  2  table- 
spoons boiled  mayonnaise.  Juice  of  one  lemon  and  enough  cocktail  ketchup 
of  any  good  brand  to  color  a  good  pink  and  give  a  spicy  taste.  Serve  in  tall 
stemmed  glasses,  with  spring  parsley  and  warm  wafers. 

Mrs.  C.  E.  Beckwith. 


OYSTER  COCKTAIL  SAUCE. 
1    tablespoon  horseradish,  1    tablespoon   Worcestershire   sauce, 

1    tablespoon  tomato  catsup,  2  tablespoons  lemon  juice, 

Yl  teaspoon  tobasco  sauce,  ]/i  teaspoon  salt. 

Mrs.  W.  F.  Baker. 


For  selected  high  grade 

MEATS  and  POULTRY 

of  all  kinds,  also  the  best 

HOME  MADE  VEAL  LOAF, 

PRESSED  CORNED  BEEF, 

PORK  SAUSAGE 

and 

MINCE  MEAT, 

'  BUTTER,  EGGS, 

and 

ALL  KINDS  OF  BOTTLED  AND  CANNED  GOODS 
of  the  very  best  selected  varieties, 

call  on 

C.  J.  HOERR 

THE  SANITARY  MARKET 

Both  Phones  1199  707  N.  Monroe  St. 

Prompt  Delivery  and  Satisfaction  Guaranteed. 


MEATS 


This  dish  of  meat  is  too  good  for  any  but  anglers  or  very  honest  men. 
-Issac  Walton. 


BEEF  STEAK  EN  CASSEROLE. 
Select  a  sirloin  or  tender-loin  steak  at  least  an  inch  thick;  have  ready 
cooked  in  browned  stock  until  tender  balls  cut  from  carrots  and  turnips 
(half  a  dozen  of  each  for  each  service),  also  two  small  onions  for  each 
service;  for  a  steak  weighing  about  two  pounds,  melt  and  brown  three 
tablespoons  butter;  stir  in  it  five  tablespoons  flour  until  the  flour  is  well 
browned;  then  add  a  half  teaspoon  salt  and  one  cup  and  a  half  of  rich 
dark  brown  broth ;  stir  the  sauce  constantly  until  it  boils ;  then  add  the  cooked 
vegetables  and  about  a  dozen  canned  mushrooms;  let  the  whole  stand  over 
hot  water  while  the  steak  is  being  cooked ;  also  let  a  low  uncovered  casserole 
become  thoroughly  heated.  Rub  over  the  surface  of  a  hot  iron  frying  pan 
with  a  bit  of  suet,  then  lay  in  the  steak;  turn  it  every  ten  minutes  at  first, 
keeping  the  pan  very  hot;  then  let  cook  more  slowly;  put  the  steak  in  hot 
casserole,  turn  the  vegetables  and  sauce  over  it  and  set  the  dish  into  a  hot 
oven  to  stand  about  four  minutes;  sprinkle  steak  with  a  teaspoon  or  more 
of  finely  chopped  parsley ;  serve  at  once. 

Mrs.  George  Muselman,  Marshall,  111. 


STEAK  A  LA  CREOLE. 
1    lb.  round  steak,  1    onion  minced  fine, 

1    tablespoon  butter,  2  medium  sized  green  peppers 

1      cup  tomatoes,  chopped. 

Brown  steak  in  butter.  Add  tomatoes,  onion  and  green  pepper.  Sim- 
mer 2  hours  or  until  done,  either  in  the  oven  or  on  top  of  stove.  Garnish 
with  parsley. — Mrs.  Moorehead. 


STEAK  SMOTHERED  IN  ONIONS. 
Slice  onions  thin  and  drop  in  cold  water.  Put  steak  in  pan  with  a 
little  suet.  Skim  out  the  onion  and  add  to  steak.  Season  with  pepper  and 
salt.  When  the  juice  of  the  onion  has  dried  up  and  meat  browned  on  one 
side,  remove  onion,  turn  steak,  replace  onion  and  fry  until  done,  being  care- 
ful not  to  burn. — Mrs.  R.  M.  Wrigley. 


24  PEORIA  WOMEN"S  COOK  BOOK 

BRAISED  BEEF. 
Get  round  steak  about  an  inch  and  a  half  thick.  Beat  flour  into  it 
thoroughly,  place  in  a  greased  frying  pan  and  sear  on  both  sides.  Put  into 
roaster  surrounded  with  enough  water  to  cover,  Yl  CUP  each  of  diced  celery, 
potatoes,  carrots  and  onion  to  suit  your  taste.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper 
and  bake  in  a  slow  oven  for  from  2  to  3  hours,  according  to  length  of 
time  it  takes  meat  to  become  tender. — Mrs.  G.  W.  Wray. 


CANNELON  OF  BEEF. 
One  lb.  round  steak,  ground,  1  egg,  1  teaspoon  chopped  parsley,  1 
teaspoon  lemon  juice,  2  tablespoons  bread  crumbs,  1  tablespoon  butter,  salt, 
pepper,  and  celery  salt.  Roll  into  an  oblong  in  oiled  paper.  Bake  24  of  an 
hour.  Serve  with  brown  sauce.  Sauce:  Brown  a  little  onion  in  butter, 
thicken  with  flour,  add  beef  stock,  made  from  extract  or  juice  in  pan ;  season, 
add  tomato  juice  if  desired. — Mrs.  Ruth  Beach  Howes. 


SPANISH  STEAK. 
Get  a  round  steak  cut  thick,  season  with  salt  and  peper.  Dredge  with 
flour  and  pound  flour  in.  Put  small  amount  of  fat  in  skillet  and  in  it  slice 
up  an  onion.  Cook  slightly  and  put  into  this  pieces  of  steak  cut  as  for  serv- 
ing. Brown  on  both  sides.  Put  into  baking  pan;  pour  on  fat  in  skillet; 
cover  with  tomatoes;  season  tomatoes.  Bake  24  of  an  hour,  cover  during 
first  part  of  cooking. — Mabel  V.  Harper. 


STUFFED  STEAK. 
1    large  flank  steak,  2  cups  stock, 

1    pint  bread  stuffing,  1    cup  strained  tomatoes, 

1    small  onion,  Salt  and  pepper. 

Flour, 

Pound  and  score  the  steak,  cover  with  the  stuffing  and  roll,  tie  securely 
and  place  in  a  braising  pan.  Place  in  a  hot  oven,  uncovered,  and  brown. 
Add  the  stock  and  cook  until  tender,  basting  often.  When  tender,  add  the 
strained  tomatoes  and  the  onion,  chopped  fine.  Cook  ten  minutes  longer. 
Remove  from  pan  to  a  hot  platter,  thicken  the  sauce,  if  necessary,  with 
flour.     Strain  over  the  steak  and  serve  with  boiled  rice. 

Mrs.  Arthur  Traeger. 


PEORIA  WOMEN'S  COOK  BOOK  25 

ROUND  STEAK. 
Pound  one  cup  of  flour  thoroughly  into  steak.      Drop  in  pan  with 
tablespoon  of  hot  lard,  fry  on  both  sides,  adding  a  little  water  from  time  to 
lime  until  steak  has  cooked  one  hour. — Clara  McBroom. 


TENDERLOIN  WITH  OYSTERS. 
Cut  open  the  tenderloin  and  place  row  of  oysters,  in  as  dressing,  salt 
and  pepper.     Pin  up  with  toothpicks.     Boil  or  bake.     Excellent. 

Mrs.  Jessie  Burroughs. 


HUNGARIAN  GOULASH. 
Cut  one  pound  of  steak  into  cubes  and  add  an  equal  quantity  of  thinly 
sliced  onions.  Put  Yl  CUP  oi  butter  into  large  sauce  pan  and  when  it  bub- 
bles put  in  meat  and  onions.  Let  brown  slightly,  then  stew  slowly  until 
meat  is  tender.  Add  water  if  needed.  One-half  hour  before  it  is  done  add 
salt,  paprika  and  a  little  stewed  tomato. — Mrs.  R.  M.  Wrigley. 


SWISS  STEAK. 
Get  round  steak  1    to   1  Yl  inches  thick,  pound  cup  of  flour  into  it, 
then  sear  both  sides,  add  one  can  of  tomatoes  and  2  large  onions,  1   bay  leaf, 
simmer  for  two  or  three  hours. — Mrs.  O.  C.  Parsons. 


HAMBURGER. 
1    heaping  teaspoonful  butter,  1    cupful  water, 

1    tablespoonful  flour,  1    lb.  hamburg  steak. 

Brown  flour  in  butter,  add  water;  after  this  has  come  to  a  boil,  add 
meat,  and  season  with  salt,  pepper,  parsley,  and  a  few  herbs.  Cook  slowly 
half  an  hour;  when  done,  place  some  nicely  browned  bread  croutons  on 
top. — Mrs.  Emilie  Timken  Murdock,  Omaha,  Neb. 


BEEF  LOAF. 

Grind  3  pounds  of  beef,  Ya  pound  of  salt  pork, 
2  eggs,  1    cup  of  cracker  crumbs, 

J    cup  of  cold  water,  A  pinch  of  salt,  pepper  and  sage. 

Bake  2Yi  hours  in  a  slow  oven. — Mrs.  L.  W.  Foster. 


26  PEORIA  WOMEN'S  COOK  BOOK 

CREAMED  HAMBURG  STEAK. 
Put  one  pound  hamburg  steak  in  a  frying  pan  with  one  medium  sized 
onion  cut  very  fine;  cover  with  one-half  cup  water;  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste,  and  let  cook  until  water  is  boiled  away;  add  one  tablespoon  butter, 
and  brown;  sprinkle  one  tablespoon  flour  over  this,  add  one  cup  milk  and 
stir  until  smooth;  if  served  on  toasted  bread  will  make  a  nice  breakfast  dish. 

Mrs.  W.  C.  Tibbett. 


BEEF  LOAF. 
2Yi  pounds  chopped  beef,  1  egg, 

Ya  pound  of  chipped  salt  pork,  Salt  and  pepper, 

1  Yl  CUPS  bread  crumbs,  Juice  of  1   lemon. 

Add  chopped  onion  or  tomato  if  liked.     Shape  in  loaf,  cover  with 
buttered  crumbs  and  bake  in  pan  with  a  very  little  water. 

Mrs.  W.  C.  Tobias. 


MEAT  LOAF  WITH  RICE,  PEAS  AND  TOMATO  SAUCE. 
2  pounds  veal  from  the  shoulder,  ground, 
14  pound  fresh  pork,  ground,   * 

Yl  teaspoonful  celery  salt  or  2  tablespoonfuls  finely  cut  fresh  celery, 
1    cup  bread  crumbs, 
1   small  onion  cut  very  fine, 
1    teaspoonful  salt,  pepper  to  suit  taste. 

Press  into  bread  pan  or  any  pan  that  will  make  nice  looking  mold. 
Bake  in  medium  oven  for  one  hour.  Cook  one  cup  rice.  When  ready  to 
serve,  mold  rice  over  loaf  until  it  is  "iced"  with  rice  as  a  cake  with  frosting. 
Arrange  peas,  heated  and  seasoned  in  border  around  loaf.  Serve  with  rich, 
well  seasoned  tomato  sauce. 

A  very  pretty  dish  as  well  as  good.  Very  nice  served  cold  the  next 
day. — Mrs.  S.  M.  Miller. 


LINDEN  STEW. 
2|/2  pounds  round  steak,  one  inch  thick.  Lay  meat  on  steak  board, 
sift  flour  over  it  on  both  sides,  pounding  it  in  until  it  will  absorb  no  more 
flour.  Brown  in  butter  on  both  sides  in  pan,  cover  with  boiling  water  and 
cook  slowly  2  hours.  Add  6  potatoes,  half  tablespoon  salt,  half  teaspoon 
pepper  when  meat  has  cooked  one  hour.     Add  more  water  if  necessary. 

Mrs.  W.  E.  Shaw. 


PEORIA  WOMEN'S  COOK  BOOK  27 

SWISS  STEW. 
Round  steak,  2Yi  or  3  inches  thick,  salt,  pepper,  and  flour  it  on  both 
sides.     Chop  well  and  rub  in  more  flour.     Place  meat  in  skillet  of  hot  lard, 
sear  it  on  both  side,  then  cover  with  boiling  water  and  boil  until  tender. 

Mrs.  W.  D.  Starnes. 


BAKED  BEEF. 
Select  a  medium  sized  round  steak  about  two  inches  thick.     Pound  it 
well  and  season,  covering  well  with  flour,  and  pound  again.     Place  in  baker 
with  a  little  butter  and  brown  on  both  sides.     Add  a  pint  of  water;  cover 
and  bake  for  two  hours. — Mrs.  C.  R.  Brewer. 


POT  ROAST. 

Place  2  tablespoons  of  butter  and  2  of  meat  fryings  or  lard  in  round 
bottomed  iron  kettle,  and  set  over  fire.  Let  it  get  hot  and  put  roast,  which 
has  been  nicely  washed,  into  it.  Allow  the  meat  to  brown  all  over,  turning 
it  frequently.  When  browned  sufficiently  cover  with  boiling  water,  and  as 
the  water  boils  downs  add  more.  Keep  covered  and  cook  slowly  until  meat 
is  done.     Salt  when  meat  begins  to  get  tender. — Mrs.  J.  H.  Riggs. 


CHIP  BEEF  WITH  CREAM  DRESSING. 
2  cups  chip  beef,  2  cups  milk,  1  tablespoon  flour,1  2  tablespoons  butter. 
Mix  flour  in  the  milk.  When  the  meat  and  butter  is  thoroughly  hot  add 
milk.  When  this  is  boiling  add  as  many  eggs  as  you  have  persons  to  serve, 
being  careful  not  to  break  the  yolks  of  eggs.  Add  salt  and  pepper,  and  be 
very  generous  in  measuring  your  butter. 


VEAL  LOAF. 

2  lbs.  of  veal,  Pepper, 
1    small  tablespoon  of  salt,  2  eggs, 

3  tablespoons  of  cream  or  milk,  or      '/£  lb.  of  fresh  pork, 

enough  to   make  loaf  as  soft  as     6  small  tablespoons  of  crackers, 
can  be  handled,  Butter  the  size  of  an  egg, 

Sage. 
Mix  well  together  and  form  into  a  loaf.     Bake  1  Yl  hours,  basting  with 
butter  and  water  while  baking. — Mrs.  J.  H.  Riggs. 


28  PEORIA  WOMEN'S  COOK  BOOK 


MEXICAN  CHILLI. 

1  can  tomatoes,  Garlic,  2  whole  ones, 

3  good  size  onions,  Hamburg  and  suet,    1 5  cents, 

2  good  size  slices  bacon,  1   can  kidney  beans. 
Spice  to  suit  taste, 

Mrs.  Wilson. 


SWEET  BREADS  WITH  MUSHROOMS. 
Cut  8  sweet  breads  into  pieces  about  ]/l  mcn  square,  stew  until  tender. 
One  can  of  mushrooms,  sliced  and  stewed  in  the  liquor  about  one  hour. 
Then  add  to  the  sweet  breads   1    cup  sweet  cream,  season  with  salt  and 
pepper  and  1  tablespoon  butter.  Serve  hot. 

Mrs.  R.  L.  Sleeth,  Pittsburg,  Pa. 


VEAL  OYSTERS. 
Cut    1  j/2   lbs.   veal  cutlets  into  pieces  the  size  of  an  oyster,  season 
with  1   tablespoon  salt,  dust  with  flour,  dip  into  beaten  egg,  roll  in  bread 
crumbs  and  fry  light  brown  on  both  sides.     Serve  with  lemon  quarters. 

Mrs.  E.  A.  Garrett. 


VEAL  CUTLETS. 
Have  the  butcher  French  the  cutlets.     Salt,  pepper  and  flour  the  same 
and  brown  well  in  fryings,  then  place  them  in  a  roasting  pan  and  dot  over 
with  butter  each  piece;  add  very  little  water,  cover  tightly  and  allow  to 
steam  in  a  slow  oven  until  tender. — Mrs.  Arthur  Traeger. 


ROLLED  VEAL  CHOP. 

Buy  the  small  rolled  veal  chops.     Salt  and  dip  each  in  beaten  egg 

which  has  been  seasoned  with  salt   and  pepper;  then  roll  in  fine  bread 

crumbs.     Melt  lard  in  iron  frying  pan  and  place  rolls  in  this.     Let  cook 

very  slowly  for  one-half  hour  or  more. — Miss  June  Daniels,  Champaign,  111. 


VEAL  BIRDS. 
Cut  round  veal  in  3  inch  pieces.     Pound  flat  and  roll  up,  stuffing  with 
bread  dressing.     Roll  in  egg  and  cracker  crumbs.     Bake,  basting  often  to 
keep  meat  tender. — Mrs.  R.  M.  Wrigley. 


PEORIA  WOMEN'S  COOK  BOOK  29 

STUFFED  VEAL  (Spanish  Style.) 
Take  a  piece  of  very  lean,  solid  veal.  With  a  sharp  knife  make 
several  large  cuts  in  it,  and  in  the  cuts  stuff  thin  pieces  of  raw  ham.  Put  in 
a  kettle,  together  with  an  onion,  bay  leaf,  a  pepper,  several  cloves  and  salt. 
Cover  with  water  and  let  boil  until  tender.  To  be  eaten  hot,  or  sliced 
cold. — Mrs.  Arthur  Traeger. 


VEAL  CHOPS  BAVARIAN. 
Wipe  six  loin  chops  and  put  in  a  stew  pan  with  one-half  onion,  eight 
slices  carrot,  two  stalks  celery,  one-half  teaspoon  pepperonis,  4  cloves  and  2 
tablespoons  butter.  Cover  with  boiling  water  and  cook  slowly  until  tender. 
Drain,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  dip  in  flour,  egg  and  crumbs,  fry  in  deep 
fat  and  drain  on  brown  paper.     Arrange  on  hot  serving  dish. 

Mrs.  J*  J.  Goodrich. 


JELLIED  VEAL. 
Take  3  or  4  lbs.  of  knuckle  and  shank  of  veal,  simmer  until  it  will 
drop  from  bone  in  enough  water  to  cover  nicely.  When  done  take  meat 
from  kettle  and  pick  the  meat  from  the  bones  and  in  to  small  pieces.  Strain 
the  water  and  return  to  kettle  add  the  meat,  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper 
to  taste,  a  little  celery  salt  or  other  seasoning  may  be  added  as  desired. 
Turn  into  moulds  and  let  get  cold,  when  it  should  slice  nicely.  In  warm 
weather  a  little  gelatine  may  be  added  if  necessary. 

Mrs.  Jessie  Burroughs. 


SAUSAGE  AND  HOMINY  DRESSING. 
For  medium  sized  turkey  cut  two  loaves  of  bread  in  slices  and  toast; 
put  in  pan  which  will  hold  all  the  dressing  and  moisten  with  cold  water. 
Fry  1  j/2  pounds  of  bulk  sausage  until  brown  and  crisp,  take  up  in  chopping 
bowl.  Turn  1  quart  can  of  hominy  which  has  been  drained  in  the  pan 
where  sausage  was  fried;  cover  closely  and  brown,  stirring  occasionally;  a 
pan  cake  turner  is  excellent  for  this  purpose,  as  it  will  stick  to  the  pan. 
Chop  sausage  medium  fine,  put  in  pan  with  toast.  Take  up  hominy  and 
treat  in  same  manner.  Season  with  a  little  chopped  onion,  if  desired,  sage 
salt  and  pepper.  No  butter  is  required  with  this  dressing  as  the  gravy  front 
the  sausage  is  sufficient,  unless  one  likes  a  very  rich  dressing. 

Mrs.  W.  K.  James. 


JOHN  HALLMAN 

Groceries 


Phone  Main  1251 


807  Fifth  Ave. 


Telephones 
Office  Main  983.    Residence  Bluff  2386. 


FRED  M.  F.  WERNER,  Ph,  C,  M. D. 

MEDICINE  AND 
SURGERY 


Office: 
Suite  609  Jefferson  Bldg. 


Residence  Phones 
Bluffs-23.    New.  23 

DR.  E.  E.  BARBOUR 

OFFICE: 
427  JEFFERSON  BUILDING 

Office  Phones 
Main-2145,    New.  2145 


tJ^McoM 


MILLINERY 


429  Main  Street 


F.  E.  KERNS 

Groceries 


Phones  Main  3808 
Main  3810 


2120  Main  St. 


E.  A.  FURRY 

COAL  and  FEED 

TELEPHONE  1673 

825  South  Adams  Street 

MORGAN'S 

CLEANING 

AND 

PRESSING 


Phone  Main  870 


2106  Main  Street 


Office  Phone  1733  Residence  Phone  842 

Robt.  A.  Kerr,  M.  D. 

PHYSICIAN  AND 
SURGEON 

623  Jefferson  Building 


PEORIA  WOMEN'S  COOK  BOOK  31 

VEAL  POCKET. 
Get  a  roast  of  veal,  have  butcher  prepare  for  filling,  wash  and  wipe 
the  meat,  season  inside  and  outside  with  1  tablespoon  of  salt,  and  Yl  table- 
spoon of  pepper.  Make  a  dressing  as  for  chicken,  stuff  the  breast  and  sew 
it  up.  Lay  in  roasting  pan  with  slices  of  pork  under  it,  spread  over  with 
butter  and  a  few  slices  of  pork  on  top. — Mrs.  E.  W.  Oliver. 


ROAST  TURKEY  AND  GRAVY. 
Wash  and  wipe  dry.  Do  not  salt.  Fill  with  dressing.  Put  without 
water  in  double  roaster.  Do  not  baste.  Keep  fire  enough  to  hear  a  gentle 
sizzle.  Bake  twenty  minutes  for  each  pound.  About  one  and  one-half 
hours  before  it  is  done  pour  over  a  gravy  made  of  three  large  cups  of  boiling 
water,  three  tablespoons  of  flour,  first  mixed  with  small  quantity  of  water 
and  one-half  cup  of  butter  and  salt  to  taste.  This  gives  moisture  to  the 
turkey  and  delicious  gravy  rich  and  brown.  Chicken  is  excellent  baked  in 
this  way. — Mrs.  H.  M.  Brown. 


DUTCH  DRESSING. 
1 0  cents  worth  of  hamberger  with  a  little  pork,  4  times  as  much  dry 
bread.     4  big  onions  fried  in  meat  fat,  then  mix  well,  add  1   well  beaten 
egg,  then  pepper  and  salt  and  a  little  poultry  dressing. 

Mrs.  J.  B.  Wolfenbarger. 


CHICKEN  CROQUETS. 
2  cups  cooked  chicken,  '/£   teaspoon  nutmeg, 

Cook:  1    tablespoon  butter, 

1  cup  cream  or  milk,  I    tablespoon  finely  chopped  parsley, 

2  tablespoons  flour,  1    teaspoon  salt, 
1    teaspoon  onion  juice,                          A  little  pepper. 

Mix  chicken  to  the  thickening,  form  into  shape,  dip  into  cracker  or 
bread  crumbs  then  egg,  then  crumbs,  cook  in  deep  fat. — Annie  B.  Story. 


FRIED  CHICKEN. 
Wash  thoroughly  in  soda  and  water,  cut  in  pieces  and  put  on  fire  in 
kettle  of  cold  water.  Let  boil  slowly  till  nearly  ready  to  separate  from  the 
bones,  have  salted  to  taste.  Have  skillet  ready  with  plenty  of  hot  butter 
and  lard.  Roll  each  piece  of  chicken  in  flour  and  fry  to  a  nice  brown. 
You  can  add  flour  and  milk  to  the  broth  or  add  them  to  the  fryings  and 
have  a  fried  gravy. — Mrs.  W.  N.  McLaughlin. 


32  PEORIA  WOMEN'S  COOK  BOOK 

CHICKEN  PIE. 
Boil  1  chicken  and  pick  from  bones,  place  in  baking  dish,  pour  over  it 
the  following  mixture:  3  tablespoons  melted  butter,  to  which  add  3  table- 
spoons flour,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  3  cups  of  stock  from  chicken,  1  cup 
of  sweet  milk  or  cream,  cook  in  double  boiler  until  smooth;  reserve  some  of 
this  mixture  for  the  gravy  boat.  Keep  chicken  warm  while  the  following  is 
prepared :  2  cups  of  flour,  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder, 
2  tablespoons  of  butter,  mix  with  flour,  1  egg  beaten  light,  to  which  add 
one  cup  of  sweet  milk,  mix  with  flour  to  make  a  stiff  batter,  and  spread 
over  the  chicken.     Bake  to  a  light  brown. — Mrs.  Wm,  Faber. 


PRESSED  CHICKEN. 
Cook  two  chickens  in  boiling  water  until  tender;  remove  skin  and 
bones,  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Put  a  layer  of  the  meat  in  a  mold,  then 
a  layer  of  boiled  eggs,  then  another  layer  of  meat  and  so  on.  To  one 
quart  of  the  liquid,  add  one  small  onion,  chopped  fine,  and  one  tablespoon 
of  dissolved  gelatine.  When  cold,  strain  over  the  chicken  and  set  in  a  cool 
place  to  harden. — Mrs.  W.  C.  Tibbetts. 


FRICASSEE  CHICKEN. 
Cut  up  the  chicken,  put  in  sauce  pan,  cover  with  boiling  water,  add 
a  bay  leaf,  or  sprig  of  parsley  and  a  slice  of  onion.  Let  come  to  a  decided 
boil,  boil  5  minutes  then  let  simmer  until  tender,  make  a  sauce  of  2  tablespoons 
flour,  2  of  butter,  2  cups  milk,  1  teaspoon  salt,  a  little  pepper,  1  tablespoon 
parsley. — Annie  B.  Story. 


CHICKEN  EN  CASSEROLE. 
Cook  one  large  chicken,  boiling  down  the  broth  until  only  about  half 
a  pint  remains.  Bone  the  chicken  and  place  in  casserole  with  a  can  of 
mushrooms,  a  can  of  peas,  very  small  onion  and  two  small  or  one  large 
carrot  (previously  cooked).  Over  this  pour  white  sauce  made  by  slightly 
browning  butter  and  some  of  the  fat  from  chicken  (about  3  or  4  tablespoons) 
When  brown  add  2  heaping  tablespoons  flour  and  the  broth  of  the  chicken 
and  milk  enough  to  make  smooth  thick  sauce.  Season  well,  pour  over  chicken 
and  bake.  When  nearly  ready  to  serve,  brown  bread  crumbs  in  butter, 
cover  top  of  casserole  and  return  to  oven  for  a  few  minutes. 

Mrs.  John  Bossard,  Peru,  Ind. 


PEORIA  WOMEN'S  COOK  BOOK  33 

CHICKEN  A  LA  KING. 
Cook  about  a  four  pound  chicken  until  tender;  remove  meat  from 
bones  and  cut  into  small  pieces.  Soak  one-half  pound  sweet  breads  in  cold 
water  for  one  hour ;  put  them  in  fresh  salt  water  and  let  cook  twenty  minutes ; 
drain  and  put  under  cold  water;  when  cold  remove  bits  of  tissue,  and  cut 
into  small  pieces;  add  sweet  breads  with  the  chicken,  and  also  one  can  peas, 
one  can  mushrooms,  one  can  pimento,  and  one  green  sweet  pepper  cut  into 
small  pieces;  add  a  big  piece  of  butter  to  the  chicken  broth  and  thicken; 
mix  with  the  above  and  serve  on  strips  of  toast;  this  will  serve  twelve  people. 

Mrs.  M.  J.  Grieves. 


LAMB  CHOPS  WITH  ONION  AND  SOUR  CREAM. 
Put  chops  in  hot  greased  pan  that  can  be  covered  closely.     Season 
chops  and  cover  them  with  sliced  onion.     Over  seasoned  onions  put  one 
tablespoon  of  sour  cream  for  each  chop.     Bake  in  oven  J/2  to  24  hour. 

Mrs.  W.  E.  Shaw. 


LAMB  SCALLOP. 
1    cupful  of  cold  lamp  chopped  fine. 
1    cupful  of  stewed  tomatoes. 
1    cupful  of  fine  bread  crumbs. 

Arrange  all  in  layers  in  a  buttered  dish,  having  the  crumbs  at  top  and 
bottom,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  put  bits  of  butter  on  top  and  bake. 

Mrs.  George  Fitch. 


EGG  AND  BACON  PIE. 

Line  a  baking  dish  with  a  biscuit  crust  made  as  follows: 
1    cup  of  flour,  2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder, 

Yl  teaspoon  of  salt,  4  level  teaspoons  of  butter. 

M'lk  to  make  a  soft  dough. 

Mix  and  sift  dry  ingredients,  rub  in  butter  until  mixture  looks  like 
meal,  add  milk  gradually.     Roll  to  about  \/%  inch  thickness,  and  line  dish. 

Filling:  Take  thin  slices  of  breakfast  bacon  or  cured  ham,  remove 
rind  and  outer  edge,  roll  up  and  cover  the  bottom  of  crust  with  this.  Beat 
two  eggs  and  add  2  cups  of  milk,  salt  and  pepper,  bake. 

Taken  from  Grandmother's  recipes  of  1819. 

Mrs.  M.  W.  Whittington. 


34  PEORIA  WOMEN'S  COOK  BOOK 

MINT  JELL-O. 
Dissolve  one  package  of  lemon  Jell-O  in  1   pt.  boiling  water.    When 
it  begins  to  thicken  stir  carefully  into  it  a  heaping  teaspoonful  of  fresh  mint 
leaves,  picked  into  tiny  bits.     Set  away  to  harden.     Serve  with  lamb. 

Mrs.  W.  S.  Keyser,  Bellaire,  O. 


SHUNKEN  FLENKEN.  (Ham  Flakes.) 
Take  the  contents  of  an  eight  ounce  package  of  Egg  Schnitzels 
"Those  Good  Noodles",  drop  them  in  two  quarts  of  boiling  water,  which 
is  seasoned  with  one  heaping  teaspoonful  of  salt.  Boil  in  open  kettle  from 
1  0  to  15  minutes ;  drain  in  colander,  shaking  the  water  out  thoroughly, 
then  place  them  in  a  deep  baking  dish  in  alternate  layers  by  first  making  a 
layer  of  Egg  Schnitzels;  then  a  layer  of  boiled  ham  chopped  fine  and  season- 
ed with  onions  and  browned  in  butter,  then  make  another  layer  of  Egg 
Schnitzels  and  so  on,  having  the  top  layer  of  Egg  Schnitzels;  beat  one 
egg  in  one-half  cup  of  milk  and  pour  over  this  and  then  bake  for  one- 
half  hour. — Mrs.  B.  C.  Koch,  Tremont,  111. 


HAM  WITH  MUSHROOM  SAUCE. 
Thick  slice  from  the  center  of  a  ham. 
Three  cloves, 
1    tablespoon  sugar. 

Cover  with  cold  water  and  cook  one  hour.  Pour  off  all  broth  except 
one  cup  full;  roast  the  ham  in  the  oven;  pour  over  it  a  sauce  made  from 
the"  gravy  in  the  pan  and  milk  thickened  with  flour  and  one  can  of  mush- 
rooms with  enough  of  the  original  broth  to  salt  it  sufficiently. 

•    Mrs.  W.  A.  Wittick. 


BAKED  HAM  WITH  APPLES. 
Roast  fresh  ham  in  the  usual  way.  Bake  apples  that  have  been  cored 
and  seasoned  with  sugar,  butter  and  cinnamon.  When  done  drop  a  big 
spoonful  of  meringue  on  each  apple  and  put  in  a  hot  oven  for  a  few 
minutes  to  brown.  Arrange  these  as  a  garnish  on  the  platter  around  the 
nicely  browned  roast.  Browned  sweet  potatoes  may  also  be  arranged  just 
inside  the  apples.     Very  simple,  but  so  attractive. — Mrs.  B.  F.  Houston. 


PEORIA  WOMEN'S  COOK  BOOK  35 

BAKED  HAM. 
Wash  and  dry.  Then  make  a  thick  paste  of  flour  and  water  and 
spread  all  over  the  cut  part  of  ham.  Place  in  roasting  pan  with  boiling 
water  in  hot  oven.  Let  cook  one  hour,  then  decrease  heat  and  cook  until 
tender.  If  the  bone  is  first  removed  it  is  easier  to  cut  in  nice  slices.  Some 
like  cloves  stuck  in  ham. — Mrs.  W.  N.  McLaughlin. 


BAKED  HAM  WITH  POTATOES. 
Place  a  cut  of  smoked  ham  about  2Yi  inches  thick  in  frying  pan. 
brown  slightly,  then  place  in  baking  dish.  Peel  and  slice  six  or  seven  Irish 
potatoes,  and  lay  them  on  top  of  ham,  salt  and  pepper,  then  cover  with 
milk,  cover  tightly  with  lid  and  bake  in  slow  oven  one  hour  or  more.  Add 
more  milk  if  it  becomes  dry.     Serve  with  sprigs  of  parsley. 

Mrs.  J.  M.  Smithson. 


BAKED  PEORIA  HAM  CREVE  COEUR  STYLE 

One  of  Milo   Prochazka's   Favorite  dishes.      (Original). 

(By  Peoria  Ham  is  meant  a  Wilson  Premium  Ham.) 

Boil  a  regular  raw  smoked  ham,  weighing  from   1 4  to   16  pounds. 

When  nearly  done,  cut  off  shank,  pull  off  the  skin.      Rub  a  cupful  of 

granulated  sugar  into  the  fat;  put  into  the  hot  oven  and  bake  a  half  hour. 


HAM  TIMBALES. 
One  cup  milk.  One  cup  bread  crumbs.  Stir  over  fire  till  a  smooth 
paste.  Add  1  cup  chopped  ham.  3  teaspoons  butter,  salt,  pepper  and 
beaten  whites  of  2  eggs.  Fill  buttered  molds,  cover  with  buttered  paper, 
put  in  pan  half  covered  with  water.  Bake  till  firm.  Garnish  with  parsley 
and  hard  boiled  eggs. — Mrs.  Will  Rose,  Warren,  O. 


HAM  LOAF. 

1  Yi  lbs.  veal,  chopped,  J4  cup  melted  butter, 
J4  ham,  chopped,  1  teaspoonful  salt, 
Less  than  Yl  CUP  cracker  crumbs,          Plenty  of  pepper, 

2  eggs  well  beaten,  Bake  1  Yl  hours. 
4  tablespoonsful  cream, 


Mrs.  Chas.  Huff,  Wabash,  Ind. 


36  PEORIA  WOMEN'S  COOK  BOOK 

DUMPLINGS  FOR  STEAK. 
1   cup  of  flour,  Water  to  mix  stiff. 

1    level  teaspoon  of  baking  powder, 

Fry  steak  until  brown,  add  water  to  cover  and  put  in  dumplings 
Cook  until  done. — Mrs.  R.  E.  Stowell. 


LITTLE  ITALY  (Left  Overs.) 
Grind  pieces  of  any  cooked  meats,  line  bottom  of  baking  dish  with 
layer  of  cooked  rice,   tomato,   and  meat,   alternately,   until  dish  is  filled, 
season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  butter,  and  moisten  with  milk  and  bake 
Yi  hour. — Mrs.  G.  S.  Muchmore. 


MEAT  PIE. 
Cut  two  pounds  of  veal,  fresh  pork  or  beef  into  two  inch  squares. 
Brown  in  kettle  with  butter  or  any  cooking  fat.  Add  water  enough  to 
cover  and  cook  until  tender.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  thicken 
gravy  with  one  tablespoon  flour  which  has  been  blended  with  cold  milk 
or  water.  If  water  has  cooked  away  add  enough  so  the  meat  is  covered. 
Pour  all  into  a  baking  dish  and  cover  with  crust  made  by  mixing  two  level 
cups  flour,  two  teaspoons  baking  powder,  Ya  cup  lard,  Yl  teaspoon  salt 
and  enough  milk  to  make  soft  dough.  Roll  a  little  more  than  Ya  mcn  thick. 
Cut  hole  in  center  for  escape  of  steam.     Bake  about  20  minutes. 

Mrs.  W.  C.  Tobias. 


JELLIED  MEAT. 
2  lbs.  lean  meat,  Ten  cent  piece  lean  pork, 

1    soup  bone,  Salt  and  pepper  well. 

Cook  all  together  until  very  tender.  Take  from  bone,  grind  coarsely. 
Let  liquor  cool  and  remove  all  grease.  Repeat  and  pour  over  meat.  Hard 
boiled  eggs  can  be  added. — Miss  Oma  Flora,  Wabash,  Indiana. 


MEAT  TIMBALS. 

Equal  quantities  of  left  over  ground  meat  and  bread  crumbs.  Mix 
well  together.     Toss  in  greased  muffin  or  timbal  cups. 

Blend  one  beaten  egg  with  1  cup  of  milk.  Pour  over  meat  just  to 
cover.  Bake  in  cups  in  pan  of  hot  water  until  custard  sets.  Serve  with 
meat  sauce. — Mrs.  R.  M.  Wrigley. 


PEORIA  WOMEN'S  COOK  BOOK  37 

MEAT  DIVINITY. 
Make  a  white  sauce  by  melting  one  tablespoon  of  butter  and  mixing 
with  it  a  teaspoon  of  flour,  add  a  cup  of  sweet  milk,  then  the  well  beaten 
yolk  of  one  egg.  To  this  add  1  cup  of  bits  of  cold  beef  roast,  season  with 
salt  and  pepper  and  just  before  putting  in  a  baking  dish,  stir  in  white  of 
one  egg  beaten  till  stiff.     Bake  untill  brown. — Mrs.  L.  F.  Myers. 


BAKED  HASH. 
Put  meat  through  chopper.     Mix  with  equal  parts  of  potato,  add  salt, 
pepper  and  enough  milk  to  moisten  well,  not  too  stiff,  put  into  baking  dish, 
pour  over  the  top  3  tablespoonfuls  of  tomato  catsup,  cover  top  with  bread 
crumbs  and  bake  in  oven. — Mrs.  George  Fitch. 


DUMPLINGS. 
1    cup  flour,    1    teaspoonful  baking  powder,   1    teaspoonful  butter  cut 
up  fine,  Yl  cup  sweet  milk.     Roll  out  and  cut  in  strips. 

Mrs.  J.  C.  Poffenbarger. 


NOODLES. 
Beat  1  egg,  add  pinch  of  salt.     Put  Yl  teaspoon  baking  powder  in  a 
little  flour.     Sift  in  and  then  add  more  flour  until  dough  is  very  stiff.     Roll 
thin,  cut  and  dry. — Mrs.  R.  E.  Stowell. 


Mrs.  Koch's  Delicious 

EGG  SCHNITZELS 

-HERE  MADAM! 

N   is  a  food  just   as  you  yourself  would  make  it. 

Absolute  purity  is  the  keynote  to  Mrs.  Koch's  product. 
Our  immense  output  permits  selling  you  "THOSE  GOOD 
NOODLES"  at  less  cost  than  you  could  produce  SCHNITZELS 
made  of  pure  yolks  of  eggs  and  pure  flour. 

Order  a  25c  carton  of  MRS.  KOCH'S  DELICIOUS  EGG 
SCHNITZELS  today.  Try  them  in  a  dozen  different  ways- 
see  for  yourself  that  this  is  not  only  the  most  wholesome  and 
nutritious  food,  but,  also  the  most  economical  food  the 
market  affords. 

YOUR  GROCER  AWAITS  YOUR  ORDER. 

"Those    Good    Noodles" 


One  of  the  most  essential  elements  of  good  Cooking 
or  Baking  is  Lard 

Godel's  Pure  Kettle  Rendered 

Leaf  Lard 


No   Finer   Lard   Sold 

Put  up  in  pails;  3s,  5s  and  10s 
ASK   YOUR   GROCER   OR  BUTCHER 

E.  GODEL  &  SON  Peoria,  111. 


EGGS 


The  warmest  hearted  hen  cannot  lay  a  boiled  egg.  — The  Foolish 
Almanack. 


HARD  AND  SOFT  BOILED  EGGS. 

To  cook  eggs  so  that  they  will  be  firm  all  the  way  through  and  yet 
not  tough  or  indigestible,  put  them  in  a  saucepan  of  boiling  water,  cover 
closely  and  place  on  a  part  of  the  stove  where  the  water  will  remain  very 
hot  but  not  boil,  and  let  stand  for  twenty  minutes. 

To  cook  eggs  so  that  they  will  be  soft,  follow  the  above  directions,  but 
let  the  eggs  remain  only  ten  minutes. 


BAKED  EGGS. 
Butter  muffin  tins  and  dust  with  bread  crumbs.     Break  an  egg  in  each, 
salt  and  pepper  and  sprinkle  with  crumbs  which  have  been  mixed  with 
melted  butter.     Bake  in  hot  oven  until  crumbs  are  brown. 

Mrs.  M.  J.  Grieves. 


CREAMED  EGGS. 
Make  white  sauce,  using  2  level  tablespoons  flour,  an  equal  quantity 
of  butter  and  1  cup  milk.  Have  ready  about  6  hard  cooked  eggs.  Into  a 
buttered  bake  dish  alternate  layers  of  sliced  egg,  (with  salt  and  pepper) 
and  cream  sauce.  Cover  with  buttered  bread  crumbs  and  set  in  oven  to 
brown. — Mrs.  H.  B.  Huey,  Gibson  City,  111. 


EGG  CUTLETS. 

8  hard  boiled  eggs,  minced, 

1    heaping  tablespoon  minced  parsley, 

1    heaping  teaspoon  onion,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

Make  a  thick  sauce  of  3  tablespoons  of  butter,  3  of  flour  and  enough 
milk  to  make  thick.  Mix  all  with  eggs,  etc.,  and  spread  on  platter  to  cool. 
When  cool  cut  in  squares,  roll  in  egg  and  cracker  crumbs  and  fry  in  deep 
fat.      (Will  serve   14). — Jenny  Rough. 


40  PEORIA  WOMEN'S  COOK  BOOK 

EGGS  A  LA  CREOLE. 
*  Boil  hard  as  many  eggs  as  there  are  persons  to  serve,  when  hard,  shell 
and  leaving  them  whole,  roll  in  seasoned  cracker  crumbs,  and  fry  golden 
brown  in  deep  fat.  Serve  hot  (individually)  with  a  sauce  made  of  a  pint 
of  tomatoes,  1  green  pepper,  and  any  scraps  of  pimentoes,  chicken,  bacon, 
mushrooms,  and  peas,  and  season  to  taste.  This  can  be  served  as  an  entree 
or  a  luncheon  dish. — Mrs.  M.  G.  Newman. 


SCRAMBLED  EGGS. 
Cut  about  a  cupful  of  bread  in  small  dice  fry  it  in  chafing  dish  in 
butter  until  brown,  not  too  brown.     Add  six  fresh  eggs  and  scramble  them 
soft  or  hard  as  you  desire.     Season  with  salt  and  pepper.     Also  small  dice 
of  ham  or  bacon  can  be  fried  with  the  bread. — Mrs.  L.  E.  Sutherland. 


JAPANESE  EGGS. 
Boil  6  eggs  until  hard.  Boil  1  cup  rice  until  tender;  drain  and  dry, 
then  turn  into  mound  in  center  of  platter.  Remove  shells  from  eggs,  cut 
into  halves  and  press  whites  down  into  rice.  (This  leaves  yolks  showing 
on  white  rice.)  Pour  over  white  sauce,  to  which  has  been  added  1  tea- 
spoon onion  juice  and  1  teaspoon  Worcestershire  sauce. 

Mrs.  Will  Rose,  Warren,  Ohio. 


EGG  TIMBLES. 
Beat  6  eggs  thoroughly  and  add  8  teaspoons  salt,  Yl  teaspoon  pepper, 
then  stir  1  Yl  CUPS  m^  mto  tne  eggs.  Do  not  beat,  but  stir  well.  Place 
in  buttered  ramekins  and  place  in  pan  boiling  water,  the  water  should  come 
about  half  way  up  on  the  cups.  Bake  in  medium  oven  for  25  minutes. 
These  served  with  crisp  bacon  and  cream  sauce  make  an  appetizing  dish 
for  luncheon. — Mrs.  M.  J.  Grieves. 


CHEESE  OMELET. 
6  eggs,  2  heaping   tablespoons   flour, 

2  heaping  tablespoons  butter,  2  cups  milk, 

2  heaping  tablespoons  grated  cheese,      1    teaspoon  salt. 

Melt  the  butter,  stir  in  flour  and  add  milk  slowly,  stir  until  smooth 
and  let  come  to  a  boil.  Pour  this  over  the  beaten  yolks  of  eggs  and  add 
cheese.  Add  whites  of  eggs,  beaten  very  stiff.  Mix  well  and  pour  in  a 
buttered  omelet  pan.     Bake  12  minutes. — Mrs.  W.  M.  Cooley. 


PEORIA  WOMEN'S  COOK  BOOK  41 

BAKED  OMELET. 
6  eggs,  1    tablespoon  corn  starch, 

I    cup  holt  milk,  1    tablespoon  butter, 

3   tablespoons  cold  milk,  1    teaspoon  salt. 

Beat  yolks  of  eggs  and  salt.  Boil  milk  and  slowly  stir  in  corn  starch 
which  has  been  mixed  with  the  cold  milk.  Add  butter  and  beat.  Stir 
this  into  the  yolks  and  lightly  fold  in  whites  of  eggs  beaten  stiff.  Pour  into 
a  buttered  pan  and  bake  in  slow  oven  25  minutes. — Mrs.  W.  B.  Reed. 


BREAD 

Here  is  bread,  which  strengthens  man's  heart. — Matthew  Henry. 


YEAST  BREAD. 
At  night  put  1  cake  of  yeast  in  Yl  CUP  or"  luke  warm  water,  let  soak 
for  Yl  hour.  In  a  gallon  crock  put  5  cups  of  flour,  2  teaspoons  of  salt, 
Ya  cup  of  sugar,  1  quart  luke  warm  water,  add  the  dissolved  yeast.  Beat 
until  smooth.  In  the  morning  take  5  cups  of  flour,  put  1  tablespoon  of  lard 
in  sponge  and  pour  on  flour  and  knead.  If  not  stiff  enough  add  enough 
flour  so  dough  won't  stick  to  hands.  Let  raise  about  3  hours.  Make  into 
loaves,  let  raise  until  twice  their  size  and  bake  in  a  very  moderate  oven. 

Mrs.  Hugh  Gibbs. 


LIGHT  BREAD  WITHOUT  POTATOES. 
At  noon  the -day  before  baking  put  Ya  cake  of  dry  yeast  to  soak  in 
one  pint  of  warm  water.  In  the  evening  mix  with  flour  to  medium  stiff 
dough.  Let  set  over  night  in  a  warm  place.  Early  next  morning  add  one 
pint  of  warm  water,  two  tablespoons  each  of  sugar  and  lard,  and  two 
teaspoons  of  salt.  Mix  in  all  the  flour  possible  with  spoon  and  let  rise. 
Mix  stiff  and  knead.  Let  rise  again  and  make  into  loaves,  let  loaves  rise 
and  bake.  If  desired  work  down  and  let  rise  again  before  making  into 
loaves.     Less  yeast  may  be  used  in  hot  weather  with  excellent  results. 

Mrs.  J.  R.  Pfander. 


LIGHT  BREAD  WITH  POTATOES. 

Make  starter  two  days  before  baking  as  follows: 
1    pt.  of  potato  water,  luke  warm,  Ya   cuP  °f  sugar, 

1    medium  sized  potato,  mashed,  1    cake  of  dry  yeast. 

1    scant  tablespoon  of  salt, 

Mix  and  put  away  in  a  cool  place.  When  ready  to  bake  add  a  qt. 
of  warm  water  and  all  the  above  ingredients  except  the  yeast.  Let  stand 
over  night.  Next  morning  take  out  one  pint  of  this  mixture  and  put  away 
for  next  baking.  Mix  the  remainder  to  a  stiff  dough,  and  knead.  Let 
rise,  work  down,  let  rise  and  make  into  loaves.  Let  loaves  rise  to  twice 
their  size  and  bake.  Add  Yl  yeast  cake  to  starter  every  fourth  baking. 
Will  make  five   1   pound  loaves. — Mrs.  A.  E.  Giles. 


44  PEORIA  WOMEN'S  COOK  BOOK 

SALT  RISING  BREAD. 
Yl  cup  corn  meal,  6  tablespoons  sweet  milk,  scald  milk  and  pour  over 
meal,  stir  well  and  keep  warm  over  night.  In  morning  prepare  batter  of 
1  pt.  warm  water,  Yl  teaspoon  salt,  Ya  teaspoon  soda,  thicken  with  flour. 
Into  this  pour  meal  and  milk  mixture  and  put  in  warm  place  to  rise.  Pre- 
pare 4  good  sized  potatoes.  Cook  soft  and  press  through  colander  into  1 
pint  new  sweet  milk.  Prepare  the  pan  of  flour,  stir  in  milk  and  potato. 
Have  this  ready  about  the  time  sponge  is  light.  Stir  in  the  rising.  Let  stand 
until  light,  then  knead  into  loaves. — Sadie  R.  McBride. 


FRENCH  ROLLS. 
2  cups  milk   (scalded),  1    teaspoon  salt, 

J/4  cup  butter,  1  cake  compressed  yeast, 

J/4  cup  sugar,  3  cups  flour. 

When  light  add  one  egg  or  yolks  of  two  thoroughly  beaten,  and 
sufficient  flour  to  knead.  Let  rise  again  and  double  its  bulk  and  shape  into 
Parker  rolls.  Let  rise  before  baking.  Place  in  a  hot  oven  and  bake  20 
minutes. — Clara  Hamer. 


CINNAMON  ROLL. 
4  cups  yeast,  J/£  teaspoon  nutmeg, 

Yl  cup  butter,  1  package  raisins, 

Cinnamon,  Flour  to  make  soft  dough. 

I    cup  sugar, 

Mix  yeast,  nutmeg,  flour  and  pinch  of  salt.  Let  rise  to  twice  its  bulk. 
Work  down  and  roll  out  %  inch  thick.  Spread  on  butter,  then  sugar  and 
sprinkle  with  cinnamon.  Cover  with  raisins.  Roll  up  and  let  rise  to  twice 
its  bulk.     Bake  45  minues. — Grace  Straesser. 


ROLLS. 

1    pt.  of  scalded  milk, 

1  tablespoon  of  sugar,  1    heaping  teaspoon  of  salt, 

7  cups  of  flour,  1    cake  of  compressed  yeast,  dis- 

2  tablespoons  of  butter,  solved  in  Yl  cup  of  warm  water- 

Add  butter,  sugar,  salt  to  milk,  let  cool,  add  flour  and  yeast  and  mix 
with  spoon,  let  rise  twice,  and  work  down  each  time,  last  time  make  into- 
balls  and  bake  in  gem  pans. — Mrs.  R.  B.  Francis. 


PEORIA  WOMEN'S  COOK  BOOK  45 

SWEET  ROLLS. 
Two  eggs,  2'/2  cups  sugar,  1  tablespoon  lard,  1  tablespoon  butter,  1 
<jt.  sweet  milk,  '/2  nutmeg,  1  cup  yeast  or  1  yeast  cake  dissolved,  flour 
enough  to  make  stiff  batter.  Set  to  rise.  When  light  knead  moderately 
stiff  and  let  rise  again.  After  it  is  light  mold  into  small  rolls,  put  in  baking 
pan  and  let  stand  again  until  light.     Then  bake  half  an  hour. 

Mrs.  James  Huxtable. 


POTATO  ROLLS. 

Boil  and  mash  three  medium  sized  potatoes,  add: 
1    cup  hot  scalded  milk,  1    tablespoon  lard, 

1    teaspoon  butter,  1    teaspoon  salt. 

1    tablespoon  sugar, 

When  cool  enough  add  J/2  cake  compressed  yeast,  dissolved,  2  well 
beaten  eggs,  flour  enough  for  batter.  If  needed  for  six  o'clock  dinner  set 
at  1 0  A.  M.  Let  stand  until  noon,  add  flour  to  make  a  good  dough,  knead 
well  and  set  to  rise.  About  4  o'clock  roll  out  the  dough,  cut  with  small 
biscuit  cutter,  dip  in  melted  butter,  let  rise  until  very  light,  bake  quickly, 
ten  minutes  in  oven. — Mrs.  J.  W.  Byrne. 


PENNY  .ROLLS. 

2   cups  warm  water,  1    cup  sugar, 

2  large  tablespoons  lard,  2  eggs  beaten  separately, 

1    yeast  cake,  1    teaspoon   salt. 

Enough  flour  to  make  dough  as  stiff  as  light  bread.  Can  keep  for 
several  days  until  one  is  ready  to  make  into  rolls.  Let  get  very  light  before 
baking. — Mrs.  J.  M.  Elliott. 


RICH  CORN  BREAD. 
1    cup  yellow  corn  meal,  2  cups  sour  milk, 

1  teaspoon  molasses,  1    teaspoon  baking  soda  stirred  in 

2  eggs,  well  beaten,  milk. 

Grease  pan  on  bottom  and  sides  with  heaping  spoonful  of  lard.  Set 
pan  in  oven  until  lard  is  melted  and  hot,  then  mix  with  dough.  Bake  in 
moderate  oven  45  minutes. — Mrs.  Harry  C.  Shane. 


Grimm's  Bakery  Co 


732-4-6  Howett  Street 


Both  Phones  5055 


,   111! 


eona,    Illinois 


INVITATION 

You  are  especially  invited  to  visit  our  bakery  from 

1:30  to  4  P.  M.  any  day  except  Saturday  and   if  you  pay 

us  a  visit    and    see   how  HOLSUM    BREAD    is    really 

made  and  baked,  we  will  have  a  nice  treat  in  store  for 

you.       So  try  and  arrange  to  visit    us.       We    especially 

invite  Clubs  or  any  member.     Get  up  a  party  and  come 

and  visit  us. 

GRIMM'S  BAKERY  CO., 

732-4-6  Howett  Street, 

£  block  from   Manual   High  School 


PEORIA  WOMEN'S  COOK  BOOK  47 

CORN  BREAD. 

1  cup  of  flour,  Yl  CUP  °f  corn  meal, 

2  tablespoons  sugar  ,  4  teaspoons  baking  powder, 
Yl  teaspoon  of  salt,  1    cup  of  sweet  milk, 

1    egg,  1    tablespoon  of  melted  lard. 

Mrs.  E.  W.  Bodine. 


CORN  MEAL  GEMS. 

1  cup  flour,  j/4  cup  corn  meal, 
J4  cup  sugar,  Ya  sweet  milk, 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  1   egg, 
Pinch  of  salt, 

Two  tablespoons  melted  butter  the  last  thing  before  baking.     Bake  in 
a  slow  oven. — Mrs.  J.  M.  Elliott. 


OATMEAL  GEMS. 

1  cup  of  sugar,  2/3  cup  of  butter, 

2  eggs,  •  Yl   CUP  °f  sour  milk, 
2   cups  of  oatmeal,  1   teaspoon  soda, 

1    cup  of  raisins,  Bake  in  gem  pans. 

Mrs.  A.  C.  Parr. 


OATMEAL  BREAD. 

1  Yl   CUPS  sour  milk,  1  Yl  CUPS  oatmeal, 

1  cup  white  flour,  2  teaspoons  sugar, 

Yl  teaspoon  soda,  Yl  teaspoon  salt, 

Bake  in  quick  oven.  To  be  eaten  hot. — Mrs.  Frank  Caldwell. 


DIXIE  BISCUITS. 
Put  2  pints  milk  on  stove  in  doube  boiler,  add  2  teaspoonsful  of  lard, 
4  of  butter  and  4  of  sugar,  scald  milk  and  when  cool  add  the  rest.  Mix 
1  cake  yeast  with  a  small  portion  of  this,  sift  5  cups  flour  with  ingredients, 
mix  smoothly,  then  add  2  eggs,  unbeaten,  and  beat  all  together  for  5 
minutes.  Set  the  sponge  5  hours.  When  light,  put  on  board  with  as  little 
flour  as  possible,  cut  out  as  biscuit  about  Yl  mch  thick,  brush  top  with 
melted  butter.  Cut  another  out  and  put  on  top  and  brush  with  butter. 
Bake  20  minutes.     This  makes  40  biscuits. — Mrs.  Harry  C  Shane. 


48  PEORIA  WOMEN'S  COOK  BOOK 

BAKING  POWDER  BISCUIT. 
2  cups  flour,  4  teaspoons  baking  powder, 

%  teaspoon  salt,  1    scant  cup  of  milk. 

4  tablespoons  fat, 

Work  fat  with  dry  ingredients  with  tip  of  fingers,  cut  the  liquid  in 
with  knife  working  it  into  a  ball.  Work  in  enough  liquid  to  make  a  soft 
dough.  Flour  baking  board  lightly,  roll  dough  over  it.  Make  into  Yl 
inch  sheets  with  rolling  pin.     Cut  in  rounds.     Bake  30  minutes. 

Mrs.  E.  F.  Washburn. 


DREAM  BISCUIT. 
2  cups  of  flour,  Yl  teaspoon  of  salt, 

4  teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  2  tablespoons  butter  or  lard, 

%  cup  of  milk, 

Mix  dry  ingredients,  add  gradually  the  liquid. — Mrs.  A.  E.  Severe. 


GRAHAM  MUFFINS. 
1  cup  of  graham  flour,  1    cup  of  flour, 

Ya  cup  of  sugar,  1    teaspoon  of  salt, 

1  cup  of  milk,  1    egg, 

1    tablespoon  of  melted  butter,  4  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Mix  and  sift  dry  ingredients,  add  milk  gradually,  egg  well  beaten,  and 
melted  butter.     Bake  in  hot  oven  25  minutes. — Stella  Hunter,  Peru,  Ind. 


BRAN  MUFFINS. 
Two  cupfuls  bran,  2  cups  entire  wheat  flour,  2  cups  milk,   1  Yl  tea- 
spoon salt,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,   1   egg  beaten  with  %  C"P  sugar 
and   1   tablespoon  butter.     Fill  enough  gem  tins  to  serve  hot  at  one  meal. 
Bake  remainder  in  one  loaf  to  serve  cold. — Mrs.  F.  H.  Putman. 


DATE  MUFFINS. 
One-third  cup  butter  and  Ya  cuP  sugar  creamed  together. 
2  cups  flour,  Yl  teaspoon  salt. 

1  egg,  Yl  lb-  dates  seeded  and  cut  in  small 
Ya,  cup  milk,  pieces, 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder  (rounded), 

Bake  in  muffin  tins  in  moderate  oven  for  25  minutes. 

Mrs.  Harry  S.  Haskins. 


PEORIA  WOMEN'S  COOK  BOOK  49 

CORN  MEAL  MUFFINS. 
Sift  together  3  times,  1  cup  flour,  1   cup  corn  meal,  2  teaspoons  bak- 
ing powder,  1  teaspoon  salt,  2  tablespoons  sugar.     Melt  1  tablespoon  butter 
with  1  tablespoon  lard,  and  add  with  1  beaten  egg  and  a  cup  of  water  to 
other  ingredients.     Beat  very  hard,  put  in  gem  pans  and  bake. 

Mrs.  C.  W.  Johnson. 


MUFFINS. 

Cream  2  tablespoons  of  sugar  with  2  of  butter.     Add  yolks  of  2 

eggs  and  1   cup  of  milk,  then  2  teaspoons  baking  powder  sifted  with  a  scant 

qt.  of  flour  and  Yl  teaspoon  salt.     Fold  in  the  two  stiffly  beaten  whites  of 

eggs  last.     Batter  must  be  very  stiff,  and  pans  hot. — Mrs.  Alonzo  Wookey. 


NUT  BREAD. 

Three  cups  flour  in  which  3  teaspoons  baking  powder  have  been  mixed 
Yl  cup  sugar  (granulated)  1    scant  teaspoon  salt, 

1    egg,  1    cup  chopped  nuts, 

1    cup  sweet  milk, 

Shape  in  two  loaves  and  let  stand  20  minutes  before  baking.     (Very 
good.)— Mrs.  C.  A.  Dille. 


NUT  BREAD. 
(2  loaves) 
4  cups  flour,  1    cup  English  walnuts, 

4  teaspoons  baking  powder,  1    egg  well  beaten, 

A  pinch  of  salt,  1  Ya  cups  milk. 

%  cup  of  sugar, 

Bake  in  a  slow  oven.     If  desired,  add  1  cup  of  raisins. 

Mrs.  Winslow  Evans. 


NUT  BREAD. 
Beat  1   egg  very  light,  add  Yl  CUP  sugar  and  beat,  then  add  Yl  tea- 
spoon of  salt,  1   teacup  milk,  4  scant  cups  of  flour  and  4  scant  teaspoons  of 
baking  powder,  1    cup  of  nut  meats,  raise  20  minutes  in  pan  in  which  you 
bake.     Bake  1  hour  in  slow  oven. — Mary  S.  Tolson. 


Mother  Hubbard  Flour 


Absolutely  guaranteed  to  make 
the  very  highest  quality  of 
bread,  biscuits,  pastry,  etc.,  and 
a  greater  quantity  than  from 
any  other   flour. 

Have  your  grocer  put  Mother 
Hubbard  in  your  cupboard. 

OAKFORD  & 
FAHNESTOCK 

Distributers. 


DON  MEYER,  GARDNER  CO. 
MILLERS 

High  Grade  Spring  and  Winter  Wheat  Flour 


All  kinds  of  Mill  Feed. 


BRANCH 
CLEVELAND.  OHIO 


PEORIA,  ILL. 


For  Bread  and  Rolls 

Pride  of  Peoria  Flour 


Beats  them  All, 

Made  in  Peoria. 


PEORIA  WOMEN'S  COOK  BOOK  51 

NUT  BREAD. 
One  cup  brown  sugar,  2  eggs,   1   cup  chopped  nuts,  4  cups  flour,  2 
cups  sweet  milk,  4  teaspoons  baking  powder,   Yl  teaspoon  salt.      Let  rise 
Yl  hour.     Bake  24  hour. — Mrs.  F.  C.  Stewart. 


BRAN  BREAD. 

1  Yl   Cl»ps  sour  milk,  Yl  CUP  molasses, 

2  cups  bran  flour,  1    cup  white  flour, 
Yl  teaspoon  soda,                                      1    level  teaspoon  salt, 

Bake  slowly  1  Yl  hours.     This  makes  one  loaf. — Mrs.  Frank  Caldwell. 


BRAN  BREAD. 

2   cups  bran  flour,  1    teaspoon  soda, 

I    cup  white  flour,  1    teaspoon  salt, 

1  Yl  CUPS  milk,  1    cup  chopped  raisins. 

Yl  CUP  molasses, 

Bake  in  a  loaf  or  in  gem  pans. — Dr.  Babcock  Meloy. 


BELGIUM  BREAD. 
Stir  together,  I    oz.  citron, 

1  lb.  powdered  sugar,  1    lb.  flour  with  a  pinch  of  soda, 
5   eggs,                                                         Yi  teaspoon  cloves, 

Add,  I    oz.  candied  orange  peel, 

2  tablespoons  cinnamon,  Yl  H>«  sliced  almonds, 
Yl  teaspoon  nutmeg,  (do  not  blanch). 

Roll  out  '/4  inch,  cut  in  oblong  squares,  let  stand  over  night,  beat  up 
egg  and  spread  on  before  putting  in  oven. — Clara  Rose. 


DATE  BREAD. 

One-half  cup  of  sugar  creamed  with  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  1  egg 
beaten  separately,  1  Yl  CUPS  of  sour  milk,  1  level  teaspoon  soda,  2  cups  of 
graham  flour,  2  cups  of  white  flour,  1  teaspoon  of  baking  powder,  2  table- 
spoons New  Orleans  molasses,  1  cup  of  chopped  dates,  1  cup  of  chopped 
English  walnuts.     Bake  in  drip  pan  in  a  slow  oven  for  about  one  hour. 

Mrs.  Wilson  Oakford. 


TREFZGER'S  PURE  GOODS  BAKERY 

=THE  HOME  OF  SPECIAL  BREADS 

DIABETIC  FOOD  BRAN  BREAD 

The  Best  of  Everything  in  the  Bakery  Line 

PHONES    }Be111"3  537    MAINST' 

PHONES.  j  Interstate  54  PEORIA,  ILLINOIS 

C.  FIESELMANN 

Dealer  in  all  kinds  of  High  Grade 

Fresh,  Salted  and  Smoked  Meats 
and  Groceries 

Both  Phones  497  119  North  Washington  St. 

Our  Work  is  Superior.  We  call  for  and  deliver  work.  A  trial  convinces. 

MEYERS   BROTHERS 

CLEANERS  and  PRESSERS 

Cleaning,  Dyeing,  Pressing  and  Repairing  of  Men  and 
Women's  Garments. 

BOTH   PHONES    MAIN    1926 

Cor.  Hamilton  and  Monroe  Sts.  -  .      -._.  y  TKTrn-Q 

Main  Store  and  Works  ±^JtLUKlA,  IJ^LriJNUlO 


PEORIA. 

The  Best  Place  for  Pretty  Hats 


PEORIA  WOMEN'S  COOK  BOOK  53 

RAISIN  BREAD. 
I    cake  of  compressed  yeast,  1    cup  of  Iuke  warm  water, 

1    cup  of  milk  scalded  and  cooled,      1    teaspoon  salt, 
24  cup  sugar,  6  cups  of  sifted  flour, 

4  tablespoons  lard  or  butter,  I    cup  of  raisins. 

(Half  of  each), 

Dissolve  yeast  and  tablespoon  of  sugar  in  the  water.  Add  the  sugar, 
salt  and  lard  in  warm  milk;  when  dissolved  add  enough  the  flour  to  make  a 
sponge.  When  well  risen  (about  2  hours)  add  raisins  and  rest  of  flour, 
knead  well,  raise  2  hours  more.     Bake  40  minutes. — Mrs.  C.  E.  Angier. 


BROWN  BREAD. 
2  cups  sour  milk,  1    cup  white  flour, 

1    cup  molasses,  2   cups  graham  flour, 

1  teaspoon  salt,  1    cup  raisins. 

2  teaspoons  soda, 

Bake  Ya,  hour  in  baking  powder  cans. — Mrs.  E.  J.  Shafer. 


BOSTON  BROWN  BREAD. 
One  cup  New  Orleans  molasses,   1   cup  sour  milk,   1   cup  corn  meal, 
1  Yl  cup  graham  flour,  1  Yl  CUP  white  flour,  1  cup  raisins,  2  level  teaspoons 
soda,  2  level  teaspoons  salt,  sweet  milk  to  make  stiff  batter.     Steam  in  three 
well  buttered  baking  powder  tins  for  1  Yl  hours. — Mrs.  A.  Lines. 


BROWN  BREAD. 
Yl  cup  of  molasses,  Yl  cup  of  sugar, 

1    cup  of  sweet  milk,  1    cup  of  sour  milk, 

1    teaspoonful  soda,  1    teaspoonful  baking  powder, 

1    cup  raisins,  4  cups  graham  flour, 

Pinch  of  salt, 

Steam  three  hours  then  bake  1  0  minutes. — Mrs.  Alice  Hancock. 


GRAHAM  GEMS. 
1    egg,  1    cup  sour  milk, 

Yl  teaspoon  soda,  Yl  teaspoon  salt, 

Graham  flour  enough  to  make  a  soft  dough,  this  will  make  eight  gems. 
Do  not  have  too  stiff  or  they  will  crack. — Mrs.  G.  E.  Wilde. 


54  PEORIA  WOMEN'S  COOK  BOOK 

GRAHAM   BREAD. 
2  cups  graham  flour,  1    teaspoon  salt, 

1    tablespoon  sugar,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder, 

1    cup  wheat  flour,  1    well  beaten  egg. 

Mix  with  sweet  milk  until  it  forms  a  soft  batter,  beat  it  well.     Bake 
in  hot  oven  15  or  20  minutes. — Mrs.  Van  Patten. 


FEDERAL  BREAD. 
(An  old  Ohio  Recipe) 
1    quart  of  flour.  Butter  the  size  of  an  egg, 

3  eggs,  Yl  cup  of  sugar, 

3  teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder,        Milk  to  make  a  cake  batter. 

This  makes  two  good  sized  loaves,  enough  for  six  people.     It  should 
be  served  hot. — Mrs.  George  Fitch. 


JOHNNY  CAKE. 
Yl  cup  of  sugar,  2  cups  of  flour  and  1  of  corn  meal, 

1  tablespoon  butter  and   1    of  lard,      3  teaspoonsful  of  baking  powder, 

2  eggs,  A  pinch  of  salt. 
2  cups  of  milk, 

Mrs.  H.  L.  Stuntz. 


POP-OVERS.  (For  Breakfast.) 
2  eggs,  well  beaten,  1    cup  flour, 

1    cup  milk,  Salt  to  taste. 

Beat  together, 

Put  Yl  teaspoon  of  butter  in  baking  cups  and  melt.     Then  add  one 
large  spoonful  of  mixture  and  bake  until  they  pop  over,  about  20  minutes. 

Mrs.  T.  E.  Hughes,  Los  Angeles,  Calif. 


PAN  CAKES. 
Yolks  of  2  eggs,  1    teaspoon  of  sugar. 

Ya  teaspoon  salt, 

Beat  the  above  well  and  add  nearly  a  pt.  of  milk.  2  heaping  tea- 
spoons of  baking  powder  in  enough  flour  to  make  a  medium  batter.  Butter 
size  of  a  walnut,  melted,  pour  this  into  batter  and  mold  in  whites  of  eggs 
well  beaten.  This  batter  thinned  with  milk  for  waffles,  thickened  with  flour 
for  muffins. — Mrs.  C.  H.  Tanton. 


PEORIA  WOMEN'S  COOK  BOOK  55 

BRAN  PANCAKES. 
Beat  1  egg  with  a  heaping  tablespoon  sugar  and  a  level  teaspoon  salt, 
add  1  cup  sour  milk  into  which  has  been  stirred  one  level  teaspoon  soda,  one 
rounded  tablespoon  butter,  which  has  been  softened  so  as  to  blend  well. 
Mix  2  cups  bran  with  one  of  flour.  Add  sufficient  amount  to  make  rather 
a  stiff  batter.  Bake  on  an  alluminum  griddle  without  greasing  and  turn  with 
spatula.  To  test  heat  of  griddle,  drop  some  batter  on  it,  if  it  makes  a  gentle 
hissing  sound  it  is  hot  enough  and  the  heat  should  be  instantly  turned  at  least 
two-thirds  off.  Serve  with  syrup  made  of  1  cup  sugar  C.  and  one  cup  of 
granulated  sugar. — Mrs.  Chas.  E.  Hull. 


WAFFLES. 
Yolks  of  3  eggs,  A  little  salt, 

I    cup  of  milk,  2  cups  of  flour, 

3  tablespoons  of  melted  butter,  2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder, 

Beaten  whites  of  3  eggs, 

If  this  dough  is  too  thick  add  a  little  more  milk,  the  dough  should  be 
like  pancake  dough. — Isabel  Kullmer. 


WAFFLES. 
1    qt.  flour,  3  tablespoonsful  melted  butter, 

1  teaspoonful  salt,  1    qt.  sour  milk, 

2  eggs,    (whites  beaten  separately)      1    teaspoonful  soda. 

Mrs.  J.  C.  Poffenbarger. 


WAFFLES. 
I    qt.  of  flour,  3  heaping  teaspoons  baking  powder, 

1    level  teaspoon  salt,  1    tablespoon  of  sugar, 

Stir  and  sift  together,  5   eggs  well  beaten. 

Then  add  1   pt.  of  sweet  milk  to  eggs  and  mix  gradually  into  flour. 
Add  more  milk  if  batter  is  too  thick. — Mrs.  L.  W.  Finch. 


HASTY  COFFEE  CAKE. 
One  scant  cup  sugar,   1   egg,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  pinch  salt, 
Yl  cup  sweet  milk  and  same  of  water,  Yl  tablespoon  butter,  Yl  tablespoon 
lard  and  flour  enough  to  make  like  cake  dough.     Sprinkle  cinnamon  and 
sugar  on  top. — Mrs.  C.  W.  Johnson. 


QUALITY  QUALITY 

Hirt's  Bakery 

For 

Pure 

Wholesome 

Tasty 

Bakery  Products 

Telephone  Main  1601  222  First  St. 

QUALITY  QUALITY 

Chas.  C.  Sauer  &  Bros. 

Dealers  in 

STAPLE    AND     FANCY 

GROCERIES 

823  North  Monroe  St.,  Peoria,  111. 
Both  Phones  998 


PEORIA  WOMEN'S  COOK  BOOK  57 

COFFEE  CAKE  WITH  BAKING  POWDER. 
2'/2  cups  flour,  1    cup  sugar, 

1    cup  milk,  1    tablespoon  lard  and  butter, 

3  teaspoons  baking  powder,  1    egg. 

Sprinkle  with  sugar  and  cinnamon  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven. 

Mrs.  L.  Foster. 


SALLY  LUNN. 
One  qt.  sifted  flour,   1   cup  sweet  milk,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder, 
Yl  teaspoon  salt,   1   tablespoon  sugar,   1    tablespoon  butter,  2  eggs  beaten 
separately.     Bake  in  square  pan  for  Yl  hour.     Cut  in  squares  with  sharp 
knife,  break  open  and  butter,  serve  hot  on  folded  napkin.. 

Misses  S.  and  E.  Benton. 


COFFEE  CAKE. 
1    cup  molasses,  1    lb.  seeded  raisins, 

1    cup  granulated  sugar,  1    tablespoon  cinnamon,  • 

1    cup  coffee,  1    teaspoon  cloves, 

Yl  cup  butter,  3  even  cups  flour, 

1    egg,  1    teaspoon  soda  in  flour. 

Mix  thick  batter,  bake  in  two  pie  tins,  slow  oven.  To  be  used  as 
cake  at  lunch  or  reheated  by  steaming  for  dinner  for  desert,  with  following 
sauce.  Sauce :  1  Yl  cups  boiling  water  thickened  with  flour,  1  cup  sugar, 
Yi  cup  butter,  creamed  together.  Seasoned  with  plenty  of  nutmeg.  Pour 
thickened  water  into  creamed  butter  and  sugar  stirring  rapidly.  Both  cake 
and  sauce  will  keep  for  days.  Most  useful  recipe  I  have. — Mrs.  A.  R.  Mills. 


CINNAMON  BUNS. 
Yl  cup  butter,  1  cup  sugar, 

2  eggs,  Yl  CUP  sweet  milk, 

2   cups    flour,  1    teaspoon  cinnamon, 

Yl  teaspoon  baking  powder,  %  cup  currants. 

Cream  butter  and  suger,  add  beaten  yolks  and  Yl  °f  the  milk;  beat 
thoroughly;  add  remainder  of  milk  and  flour,  and  beat  again.  Add  bak- 
ing powder,  cinnamon,  fold  in  beaten  white,  and  stir  currants  in  lightly. 
Bake  in  gem  pans  in  moderate  oven.  Spread  with  butter  while  hot;  sift 
over  with  powdered  sugar  and  cinnamon. — Mrs.  G.  M.  Flenner. 


Peoria  Creamery  Company,  (Inc.) 
CASH  BUYERS  OF  CREAM 

Churners  of 
Pure  Wholesome   Pasteurized   Cream   Butter 

3k, 

BOTH  'PHONES  120 

A  ■•   . 

Branch   Houses: 
Bloomington,  111.  Jacksonville,  111.  Lincoln,  111. 


USE 

DR.  PRICE'S 

True 
Vanilla 

infyour  Cakes,  Ice  Creams, 
Puddings,  Etc. 


CANNOT  BE  EXCELLED. 

Oakford  &  Fahnestock 


VEGETABLES 

To  every  thing  there  is  a  season. — Old  Testament. 


POTATO  POUFFERS. 
1    pint  of  cold  mashed  potato,  1    egg, 

]    cup  of  flour,  1    teaspoonful  of  baking  powder. 

Mold  in  small  potato  shaped  croquettes  and  fry  in  deep  fat. 

Mrs.  C.  U.  Collins. 


POTATO  DUMPLINGS. 
Cook  ten  medium  sized  potatoes,  not  qiiite  donet  peel  while  warm, 
the  day  before  wanted.  Then  grate,  stir  in  yolks  of  six  eggs,  beaten,  add 
four  heaping  spoonsful  of  flour,  salt  to  taste,  and  add  the  white  of  six  eggs 
beaten  stiff.  If  the  potatoes  are  dry  and  mealy  add  a  little  milk.  Slice 
white  bread  thin,  cut  in  small  squares,  brown  (light)  with  lard  or  butter  in 
the  oven,  make  a  heaping  plateful,  cool  and  add  to  dough,  shape  into  balls, 
using  a  little  flour.  Have  water  boiling  and  salt,  cook  a  small  one  to  see 
if  it  will  hold  up,  if  not  add  an  egg.     Cook  fifteen  minutes. 

Mrs.  N.  J.  Busch. 


ESCALLOPED  POTATOES. 
Pare  and  slice  very  thin  raw  potatoes,  put  in  a  pudding  dish,  a  layer 
of  cracker  crumbs  and  a  layer  of  potatoes  alternately,  cracker  crumbs  on 
top.     Put  salt,  pepper  and  butter  in  each  layer  to  season,  and  cover  with 
milk.     Bake  in  a  hot  oven  1  hour. — Blanche  Grady. 


DELMONICO  POTATOES. 
5   cold  potatoes,  1    tablespoon  butter, 

1    tablespoon  flour,  1    cupful  milk, 

*/l  teaspoon  salt,  Dust  of  pepper. 

1/2  cupful  grated  cheese, 

Cut  potatoes  into  fine  dice.  Make  a  white  sauce  from  the  butter,  flour, 
milk  and  seasonings,  boil  until  thickens.  Pour  over  potatoes,  sprinkle  with 
grated  cheese.     Bake  until  light  brown. — Mrs.  Joseph  Ogle. 


60  PEORIA  WOMEN'S  COOK  BOOK 

BAKED  POTATOES. 

The  Idaho  Special  baking  potato  is  best  to  use,  but  any  fine  mealy 
potato  will  do.  After  scrubbing  with  brush  and  rinsing,  roll  in  salt  and 
bake  in  slow  oven  until  tender. 

The  flavor  is  much  improved  and  the  potato  is  frosted  white  as  snow, 
no  extra  salting  at  table  will  be  necessary. — Mrs.  C.  E.  Beckwith. 


POTATOES  IN  HALF  SHELL. 
Bake  medium  sized  potatoes  in  rather  a  slow  oven,  when  done  cut  in 
halves  (the  long  way),  remove  the  inside  carefully,  so  as  not  to  tear  the 
shells.  Add  to  the  potatoes  salt  and  butter;  mash  well  and  add  milk,  beat 
until  light.  Refill  shells,  cover  with  grated  cheese  and  put  in  the  oven  to 
brown. — Mrs.  M.  J.  Grieves. 


POTATOES  AND  BACON. 
Make  tunnel  through  potato  with  vegetable  knife.     Roll  strip  of  bacon, 
rolling  lean  inside.     Insert  in  potato.     Put  in  pan  without  water.    Bake  J/2 
to  %  hours.     Baste  with  fat  in  bottom. 


POTATO  PUFF. 
Press  boiled  potatoes  through  vegetable  press.  For  each  cupful  add 
1  tablespoon  of  butter,  }/a  cuP  °f  m^^  or  cream,  1  egg,  yolk  and  white 
beaten  separately.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Mix  thoroughly,  fold  in 
beaten  whites  last.  Bake  in  1  dish,  or  individual  dishes,  long  enough  to 
cook  the  egg,  and  serve  at  once. — Mrs.  Will  Link. 


SWEET  POTATO  CROQUETTES. 
2  cups  hot  mashed  potatoes,  1    egg, 

2  tablespoons  butter,  Hot  milk, 

Yl  teaspoon  salt,  Pepper. 

Add  butter  and  seasoning  to  potatoes,  mix  well,  then  add  beaten  egg. 
If  mixture  is  too  dry,  add  hot  milk  to  moisten.  Shape  into  croquettes,  dip 
in  crumbs,  egg  and  crumbs  again.     Fry  in  deep  fat  and  drain. 

Mrs.  J.  J.  Goodrich. 


PEORIA  WOMEN'S  COOK  BOOK  61 

SWEET  POTATOES  AU  GRATIN. 
Cut  5  medium  sized  boiled  sweet  potatoes  into  one-third  inch  slices. 
Put  a  layer  in  a  buttered  baking  dish.     Sprinkle  with  salt,  pepper,  and  3 
tablespoons  brown  sugar.      Dot  over  with   1    tablespoon  butter.      Repeat. 
Cover  with  buttered  crumbs  and  bake  until  brown. — Mrs.  Moorehead. 


CANDIED  SWEET  POTATOES. 

Peel  and  slice  sweet  potatoes  as  for  frying.     Put  in  a  baking  dish  and 

half  cover  with  water.      Cook  on  top  of  stove  five  minutes,   then  cover 

potatoes  with  brown  sugar  and  pieces  of  butter.     Continue  cooking  on  top 

of  stove  until  almost  done,  then  put  in  oven  to  finish. — Mabel  V.  Harper. 


SWEET  POTATOES  AND  BACON. 
Boil  potatoes  until  done.     Remove  skins  and  cut  in  half.     Over  each 
lay  a  thin  slice  of  bacon.     Put  in  oven  until  bacon  is  browned.     Serve  at 
once. — Mrs.  R.  M.  Wrigley. 


CAULIFLOWER  WITH  CHEESE. 
Boil  the  cauliflower  in  salt  water  until  tender.     When  cool  cut  into 
small  pieces.     Place  a  layer  in  baking  pan,  sprinkle  with  grated  cheese  and 
another  layer  of  cauliflower  and  cover  with  cheese.     Add  a  little  milk  and 
bake  in  oven. — Mrs.  W.  B.  Short. 


CREAMED  CAULIFLOWER. 

Take  off  outside  leaves  and  cut  into  small  pieces;  stew  in  salted  water 
for  twenty  minutes,  to  which  has  been  added  a  dash  of  pepper  and  a  table- 
spoonful  of  butter.  Have  ready  a  tablespoon  of  flour  mixed  with  one  cup 
of  milk;  pour  over  the  cauliflower  and  let  come  to  a  boil.  If  cauliflower  is 
not  quite  fresh,  soak  a  while  in  cold  water  before  cooking. 

Mrs.  W.  C.  Tibbetts. 


CREAM  CABBAGE. 
Beat  together  2   egg  yolks,   Yl   CUP  sugar,    Yl   CUP  vinegar,   butter 
size  of  an  egg,  salt  and  pepper.     Put  the  mixture  in  a  saucepan  and  stir 
until  it  boils.     Pour  over  cabbage.     Pound  cabbage  while  hot. 

Mrs.  W.  B.  Elston. 


0 
62  PEORIA  WOMEN'S  COOK  BOOK 

ESCALLOPED  CABBAGE. 
1/2  medium  head  cabbage,  1    pint  sweet  milk, 

2   level  tablespoons  flour,  Yi  teaspoon  salt, 

2   tablespoons  butter,  Pepper. 

Cut  cabbage,  not  very  fine,  and  boil  in  salted  water  for  twenty  minutes 
and  then  drain.  Melt  butter  in  pan;  add  flour,  stir;  add  milk  gradually; 
salt,  pepper  and  cook  until  smooth.  Put  cabbage  in  buttered  baking  dish, 
mix  sauce  with  it,  cover  with  layer  of  buttered  crumbs  and  bake  fifteen 
minutes.  For  extra  good,  add  four  hard  boiled  eggs,  chopped,  to  the 
sauce. — Mrs.  Arthur  Traeger. 


BAKED  BERMUDA  ONION. 
A  favorite  dish  originated  by  Milo  Prochazka,  Mngr.  of  Creve  Coeur  Club. 
Slice  a  large  Bermuda  onion  into  three  or  four  slices  one-half  inch 
thick;  *!,,c*  with  flour  seasoned  with  salt  and  paprica;  put  into  pan  well 
butte  bake  in  hot  oven  to  a  golden  brown.     Baste  with  butter. 


ONION  SOUFFLE. 
Melt  1  tablespoon  butter  in  saucepan.  Add  1  teaspoon  of  flour,  14 
teaspoon  salt,  a  dash  of  paprika.  When  smoothly  mixed  add  one  cup  milk. 
Stir  constantly  until  sauce  boils,  then  add  Yl  cup  stale  bread  crumbs  from 
center  of  loaf.  1  teaspoon  of  chopped  parsley,  1  cup  cold  boiled  onions, 
chopped  fine,  yolk  of  1  egg,  well  beaten.  Beat  white  of  2  eggs  very  stiff 
and  fold  into  onion  mixture.  Bake  in  a  buttered  baking  dish  in  moderate 
oven  1  5  minutes.  Use  meat  sauce. — Mrs.  T.  E.  Hughes,  Los  Angeles,  Cal. 




- 

STUFFING  FOR  TOMATOES. 

Melt  a  tablespoon  of  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  four  sound  pealed  and 

finely  chopped  shaliots  and  while  cooking  mix  well  rather  briskly  for  one 

minute.     Add  the  scouped  out  tomato  meat,  3  good  sized  finely  chopped 

mushrooms,   the  meat  of  two  raw  sausages,   half  a  bean  of  garlic  finely 

chopped,  one  teaspoon  chopped  parsley  and  a  teaspoon  chopped  chives. 

Season  with  half  teaspoon  salt,  half  salt  spoon  white  pepper  and  two  salt 

spoons  of  sugar.     Mix  all  well  while  cooking  for  three  minutes,  then  add 

three  tablespoons  of  bread  crumbs  and  one  raw  egg  yolk.     Mix  thoroughly 

for  two  minutes,  then  place  in  a  bowl  to  cool  off.      Stuff  the  tomatoes 

evenly  with  it. — Mrs.  L.  E.  Sutherland. 


PEORIA  WOMEN'S  COOK  BOOK  63 

STUFFED  TOMATOES. 
Wash  and  dry  well  six  fine  sound  good  sized  tomatoes.  Cut  through 
the  top  of  each  without  detaching  so  that  it  will  serve  as  a  cover.  Scoup 
out  the  inside  of  each  tomato  with  a  vegetable  scoup  being  careful  not  to 
cut  the  skin,  then  lay  them  on  the  plates.  Season  the  interior  with  a  half 
teaspoon  salt  and  two  salt  spoons  white  pepper  equally  divided.  Then  fill 
each  tomato  with  the  tomato  stuffing  and  close  down  the  covers.  Lightly 
butter  a  tin  plate  and  lay  them  on  it.  Spread  half  teaspoonful  melted  butter 
on  the  top  of  each.  Arrange  them  on  a  roasting  tin  and  place  them  in  a 
moderate  oven  to  bake  for  1 6  minutes.  * 


SCALLOPED  TOMATOES. 
Place  in  a  baking  dish  a  layer  of  sliced  tomatoes,  a  layer  of  bread 
crumbs,  and  a  little  pepper  and  salt.     Continue  until  dish  is  full  and  bake 
in  moderate  oven. — Miss  Lillie  Harris,  Henderson,  Ky. 


TOMATO  AND  RICE. 
Boil  two-thirds  cup  of  rice  in  plenty  of  salted  water  until  tender,  drain, 
add  just  enough  strained   tomato,   seasoned  with   salt,   pepper  and  sugar, 
so  as  not  to  be  stiff,  stuff  peppers  and  bake.     If  you  have  not  peppers,  put 
in  baking  dish  and  cover  with  buttered  bread  crumbs,  bake  until  brown. 

Mrs.  C.  H.  Tanton. 


CREAMED  CARROTS. 
Cube  carrots,  parboil  in  soda,  then  return  to  fire  with  enough  water  to 
cover  well,  cook  until  tender  and  water  is  reduced  with  bits  of  onion,  or 
boiled  ham  left  over,  make  white  sauce,  season  with  salt,  pepper,  sugar, 
paprika,  lump  butter,  boil  up  once  and  serve.     Delicious. 

Mrs.  C.  E.  Beckwith. 


SPANISH  RICE. 
Boil  rice.     (Boil  one  quart  of  water,  add  1   heaping  cup  of  rice  and 
boil  20  minutes.)      Fry  bacon  and  cut  in  small  pieces  while  frying.     Add 
one  green  pepper  cut  fine.      Fry  until  pepper  becomes  dark.     Add   1    can 
tomato  soup  and  cook  a  few  minutes.     Add  rice. — Elizabeth  Rider. 


64  PEORIA  WOMEN'S  COOK  BOOK 

BAKED  RICE. 
Boil  rice  until  tender,  not  too  soft,  place  in  baking  dish  and  pour 
over  the  juice  of  a  can  of  tomatoes,  salt  and  pepper,  then  on  top  lay  slices  of 
bacon,  as  many  as  it  takes  to  cover  dish,  put  in  oven  and  bake  until  bacon 
is  brown.     Serve  as  a  vegetable. — Mrs.  Blanche  Ottenheimer. 


BEANS,  BOSTON  BAKED,  REHEATED  WITH  BACON. 
Have  ready  as  many  rounds  of  toast  as  individuals  to  serve.  The 
toast  may  Be  made  of  any  kind  of  bread  preferred,  with  all  crust  removed. 
Put  the  beans  in  a  guernsey  covered  bean  pot,  two  or  three  tablespoonsful 
of  boiling  water,  cover  the  dish  closely  and  set  into  the  oven  to  become 
very  hot.  In  the  meantime  roll  strips  of  thin  bacon  (one  for  each  service) 
into  a  compact  shape,  pass  a  wooden  toothpick  through  each  to  hold  it  in 
shape,  put  all  in  a  frying  basket,  and  let  cook  in  deep  fat  about  two  minutes, 
or  until  crisp;  drain  carefully.  Dip  the  edges  of  the  slices  of  toast  in  boil- 
ing water,  salted,  and  dispose  on  a  hot  dish;  spread  each  slice  with  butter, 
dispose  the  beans  on  the  slices,  and  a  roll  of  bacon  on  each. 


BAKED  BEAN  LOAF. 
Cook  to  paste,  1  cup  bread  crumbs,  Yl  CUP  tomatoes.  Mix  with  2 
cups  baked  beans,  3  chopped  pimentos.  Season  with  pepper,  1  teaspoon 
salt,  lemon  rind  (grated),  and  onion  juice.  Beat  yolks  of  2  eggs  well, 
add  to  mixture  and  fold  in  beaten  whites.  Put  in  buttered  tin,  after  mold- 
ing, cook  until  firm.  Serve  with  tomato  sauce. — Mrs.  Will  Rose,  Warren,  O. 


KIDNEY  BEAN  CHILLI. 
One  can  beans,  1  pint  canned  tomatoes,  1  pimento,  1  large  onion 
(ground),  2  tablespoons  butter.  Melt  butter,  put  in  onion  and  brown, 
then  add  tomato,  pimento,  salt  and  2  tablespoons  sugar.  Mix  1  tablespoon 
flour  with  a  little  water  and  put  into  the  above,  then  add  beans  after  having 
rinsed  them  thoroughly.     Cook  gently  about  %  of  an  hour. 

Mrs.  C.  W.  Johnson. 


EGG  PLANT  (Delicious.) 
Cook  egg  plant,  drain  and  mash,  one  egg  beaten  light,   1   tablespoon 
of  flour,  a  little  salt,  mix,  and  fry  by  spoonsful  in  hot  grease. 

Mrs.  R.  B.  Francis. 


PEORIA  WOMEN'S  COOK  BOOK  65 

CORN  PUDDING. 
Yolks  of  2  eggs  well  beaten,  1    teaspoon  salt, 

1    tablespoon  melted  butter,  1    tablespoon  sugar, 

1    can  corn,  2  tablespoons   flour- 

Thin  with  milk,  add  beaten  whites  of  eggs  and  bake  half  hour  in 
moderate  oven. — Mrs.  I.  J.  Stanley. 


ESCALLOPED  CORN. 

1  can  corn  or  1    dozen  ears,  1    teaspoon  salt, 

2  eggs,  Pepper. 
1    cup  milk, 

Separate  eggs,  beat  yolks  and  add  to  corn,  add  salt,  pepper  and  milk, 
then  fold  in  whites  of  eggs,  beaten  stiff.  Pour  into  greased  baking  dish, 
sprinkle  with  buttered  bread  crumbs  and  bake  1  hour  for  fresh  corn  and  only 
thirty  minutes  for  canned  corn. — Mrs.  Arthur  Traeger. 


CORN  CROQUETTES. 

1  can  corn,  Butter  the  size  of  a  walnut, 

2  eggs,  Salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

Mix  with  cracker  crumbs,  make  into  small  balls,  roll  in  cracker  crumbs, 
and  fry  in  hot  grease. — Mrs.  W.  C.  Tibbetts. 


CORN  IN  HUSKS. 
Remove  the  husks,  pull  down  remaining  husks  and  take  out  silk.     Tie 
husks  around  corn,  put  in  cold  water  and  heat  until  bubbles  begin  to  rise. 
Cook  four  minutes.     Drain  and  serve  in  husks.     Salt  water  if  desired. 

Mrs.  R.  M.  Wrigley 


BAKED  CELERY  WITH  CHEESE. 

3  stalks  celery,  Vz  cup  grated  cheese, 

4  tablespoons  butter,  Va,  teaspoon  pepper, 
4  tablespoons  flour,                                  Bread  crumbs, 

Yl  leaspoon  salt, 

Cut  celery  in  one-inch  pieces  and  cook  in  boiling  salt  water  until 
tender;  drain  and  reserve  this  stock;  with  it  make  a  sauce  using  the  butter 
and  flour;  add  celery,  cheese  and  seasoning;  pour  into  buttered  baking  dish; 
cover  with  bread  crumbs  and  bake  until  delicately  browned. 

Mrs.  W.  B.  Reed. 


66  PEORIA  WOMEN'S  COOK  BOOK 


BAKED  BANANAS. 

Mix  together  the  following:  Stir  into  this: 

Yl   cup  sugar,  1    cup  boiling  water. 

Yi   teaspoon  corn  starch,  Add  Yl  lemon  cut  into  slices  or  the 

Ya   teaspoon  salt,  juice  of  Yl  lemon. 

Butter  baking  dish,  remove  skins  from  5  or  6  bananas.  Cut  in  halves 
lengthwise,  cut  each  half  in  two.  Put  layer  in  baking  dish.  Pour  over  a 
little  sauce.  Alternate  layers  and  cover  with  buttered  cracker  crumbs. 
Bake  25  or  30  minutes  until  crumbs  are  brown.  Serve  with  roast  mutton 
or  lamb  as  a  vegetable. — Mrs.  R.  M.  Wrigley. 


STUFFED  PEPPERS. 

Remove  seeds  from  as  many  sweet  peppers  as  are  desired.     Make  a 

filling  of  chopped  cold  meat,  bread  crumbs,  tomatoes,  and  one  small  onion, 

moisten  with  warm  water;  season  with  salt  and  butter.     Fill  the  peppers 

and  place  in  a  shallow  pan  with  a  little  water.     Bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Mrs.  C.  R.  Brewer. 


TURNIP  CUPS  WITH  PEAS. 
Pare  turnips  the  size  you  want  for  cups,  hollow  out  the  inside,  being 
careful  not  to  make  the  wall  of  cup  too  thin.     Put  on  to  cook  in  cold  water, 
season  with  salt  and  sugar.     When  tender  (not  too  tender)  drain  off  water. 
Cream  the  peas  and  serve  while  hot  in  the  cups. — Mrs.  M.  J.  Grieves. 


PHILADELPHIA  PEPPER  POT. 
(Adapted  from  my  Great  Great  Grandmother's  Cook  Book.) 
Melt  a  tablespoon  of  butter  in  a  sauce  pan;  add  two  green  peppers 
chopped  fine,  two  onions  sliced  thin,  and  two  medium  sized  turnips  cut  in 
small  cubes  and  stir  until  the  butter  is  absorbed;  add  a  pound  of  tripe  cut 
into  small  cubes,  and  one-fourth  cup  of  rice.  Blanch  the  rice  before  adding 
to  the  other  ingredients.  Add  two  quarts  of  cold  water,  and  a  three  pound 
chicken  which  has  been  cleaned  and  jointed.  Let  simmer  at  least  three  hours 
until  the  chicken  is  tender.  Season  with  salt  and  a  dash  of  celery  salt.  Add 
one  cup  of  tomato  puree  about  fifteen  minutes  before  serving  and  let  simmer 
gently.  A  three  pound  piece  of  veal  may  be  substituted  for  the  chicken. 
This  is  a  fine  dish  for  the  fireless  cooker,  and  makes  nearly  a  meal  of  itself. 

Mrs.  M.  L.  Fuller. 


PEORIA  WOMEN'S  COOK  BOOK  67 

PARSNIP  FRITTERS. 
Wash  parsnips  and  cook  until  tender  in  boiling  water.     Drain,  plunge 
into  cold  water  and  the  skins  will  come  off  easily.     Mash  well,  season  with 
salt,  pepper,  and  butter.     Shape  in  small  round  cakes,  saute  in  butter  after 
rolling  in  flour. — Mrs.  Morehead. 


"THOSE  When  you  want  to  serve  a  dish    that   is 

rOOn  particularly    delectable,    wholesome    and 

nutritious — one  that  is  as  pure  as  a  food 
NOODLES  can  be  made,  then  order 

MRS.  KOCH'S 
DELICIOUS 

EGG  SCHNITZELS 

Schnitzels  are  made  in  Tremont,  Illinois,  in  a  community  where 
it  is  possible  to  obtain  the  freshest  of  eggs  and  the  best  of 
flour.  Here  our  factory  is  located,  which  is  the  most  sanitary 
establishment  of  its  kind  in  the  world. 

You    can't    imagine    the    rare    taste    of  "THOSE    GOOD 
NOODLES"  until  you  have  personally  tried  this  delicious  food. 

Your  Grocer  sells  MRS.  KOCH'S   EGG   SCHNITZELS— 
order  a  25c  carton  TO-DAY. 

CRAWLEY  ELECTRIC  CO. 

228  S.  Jefferson  Avenue 
DISTRIBUTERS 

Frantz  Premier  Electric  Cleaner 

Voss  Electric  Washing  Machines 

Westinghouse  Toaster    Stoves 

Irons,  Heating  Pads,  Vibrators,  Medical  Coils,  Etc. 
Electrical  Supplies  and  Repairs  of  every  Description. 

HERRING,  HALL  &  MARVIN 

FIRE  AND  BURGLAR  PROOF 


HAVE  BEEN  PROVEN  THE  BEST  BY  TEST, 

JOHN      C     SlREIBICH        South0 Washington  St. 


ENTREES 

It  is  the  entrees  that  cooks  usually  invest  with  their  greatest  cunning. 


BANANA  COMPOTE. 
Boil  together  1   cup  sugar  and  two-thirds  cup  water  for  ten  minutes. 
Add  the  grated  rind  and  juice  of  half  a  lemon.     When  cold  pour  over 
sliced  bananas.     Sprinkle  with  finely  chopped  nuts  and  serve  with  whipped 
cream. — Mrs.  Gloyd  W.  Wray. 


TOAST  WITH  OLIVE  OIL  AND  CHEESE. 

Dip  some  toast  in  olive  oil  and  arrange  on  a  dish.  Strew  over  some 
grated  Parmesan  cheese,  pepper  and  lemon  juice.  Put  them  for  a  few 
minutes  in  an  oven.  Give  just  enough  time  for  the  cheese  to  melt,  and 
serve  as  soon  as  they  leave  the  oven. — Mrs.  L.  E.  Sutherland. 


FRUIT  COCKTAIL. 

Cut  into  small  pieces  and  chill  on  ice: 
2  oranges,  Y4  lb.  candied  cherries, 

6  slices   canned   pineapple,  2  bananas, 

J/2  cup  each  figs  and  dates, 

Sugar  and  lemon  to  taste.     Serve  with  wafers. — Mrs.  Carrie  F.  La's 


ESCALLOPED  MUSHROOMS  AND  PEANUTS. 
1    cup  stale  bread  crumbs,  J/2  cup  melted  butter, 

1    cup  chopped  peanuts,  1    cup  mushrooms, 

J/2  teaspoon  salt,  '/2  teaspoon  pepper. 

Drain  and  cut  one  cup  of  mushrooms  into  Yl  mcn  pieces.  Make  a 
rich  cream  sauce  and  pour  over  mushrooms.  Take  a  baking  dish,  put  in  a 
layer  of  crumbs  and  peanuts,  then  the  mushrooms,  and  so  on  until  dish  is 
filled,  with  crumbs  and  nuts  on  top;  pour  over  the  remainder  of  the  sauce, 
and  bake  in  hot  oven  until  brown.  Can  be  baked  in  individual  dishes,  too. 
Must  be  served  hot.  Fresh  mushrooms  should  be  parboiled  very  quickly  in 
salted  water. — Mrs.  Arthur  Traeger. 


70  PEORIA  WOMEN'S  COOK  BOOK 

EGG  SCHNITZELS  AND  CHEESE. 
Take  the  contents  of  an  eight  ounce  package  of  Egg  Schnitzels  "Those 
Good  Noodles,"  drop  tbem  in  two  quarts  of  boiling  water,  which  is  season- 
ed with  one  heaping  teaspoonful  of  salt ;  boil  in  open  kettle  from  1  0  to  1  5 
minutes;  drain  in  colander  shaking  the  water  out  thoroughly.  Put  them  in 
a  buttered  baking  dish,  grate  over  this  two  ounces  of  cream  cheese,  add  a 
lump  of  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut,  pour  over  this  a  cup  of  milk  and  spread 
bread  crumbs  over  same  and  then  bake  for  20  minutes. 

Mrs.  B.  C.  Koch,  Tremont,  111. 


DRESSING. 
2  tablespoons  butter,  I    teaspoon  tomato  catsup, 

2  tablespoons  flour,  1  J/4   cups  milk. 

1    tablespoon  chopped  sour  cucum-       Boil  until  thick, 
ber  pickle, 


Mrs.  O.  B.  Edmonson. 


BAKED  APPLES. 

1 Yl  cup  sugar,  A  little  over  1   cup  water. 

30  red  cinnamon  drops, 

Cook  to  a  thick  syrup.  Then  pour  over  apples  that  have  been  cored 
and  peeled,  then  cook  on  top  of  stove  in  a  shallow  pan.  This  is  enough 
for  10  apples.     "Fine." — Mrs.  J.  B.  Wolfenbarger. 


BAKED  APPLES  WITH  OLD  FASHIONED 
CINNAMON  DROPS. 

Take  the  Northern  Spies,  enough  to  fill  dripping  pan.  Pare  and  core, 
filling  with  butter  and  sugar,  Yl  cupful  cinnamon  drops,  1  cupful  sugar  and 
water  to  make  a  syrup.  The  drops  will  dissolve,  then  pour  mixture  over 
apples  in  pan  and  bake  in  slow  oven  until  candied.  These  are  nice,  also 
as  a  salad,  serve  on  lettuce  leaves  with  oil  dressing  mixed  with  whipped 
cream. — Mrs.  C.  E.  Beckwith. 


CRANBERRY  SAUCE  WITH  NUTS. 

Cook  1   qt.  of  cranberries  in  about  Yl  Pl-  °f  water,  when  done  put 

through  sieve,  add  1  Yl  Pl-  °f  sugar,  cook  until  jelled.     Have  one  cup  of 

English  walnuts  in  mold,  pour  cranberries  over  and  set  in  cool  place  until 

firm,  cut  in  cubes  and  serve  on  lettuce  leaf. — Emma  E.  Liston,  Bradston,  111. 


PEORIA  WOMEN'S  COOK  BOOK  71 

CORN  MEAL  BALLS. 
One  pt.  white  corn  meal,  Yl  teaspoon  of  salt.     Set  meal  in  oven  until 
hot,  then  pour  on  enough  boiling  water  until  you  have  a  batter  as  soft  as 
can  be  handled.     Stir  in  1   egg.     Take  a  spoonful  and  roll  into  a  round 
ball.     Drop  in  hot  lard  and  fry  a  light  brown — Mrs.  J.  H.  Riggs. 


MACARONI  WITH  OYSTERS. 
Break  macaroni  in  inch  pieces.  Cook  in  boiling  salt  water  twenty 
minutes,  then  drain.  Butter  the  bottom  of  a  baking  dish,  put  in  a  layer  of 
oysters,  salt,  pepper  and  butter,  then  a  layer  of  macaroni.  Continue  with 
alternate  layers  until  the  dish  is  filled.  Pour  over  all  a  white  sauce  made 
from  one  tablespoon  flour  mixed  with  one  cup  milk.  Bake  in  a  hot  oven 
about  thirty  minutes. — Mrs.  Wm.  Heyl. 


BAKED  MACARONI  (Original  Recipe.) 
Boil  desired  amount  of  macaroni  in  salt  water  until  tender,  then  place 
a  layer  in  baking  dish,  then  a  layer  of  stewed  tomatoes,  then  a  layer  of 
fried  hamburger  with  onions.      Place  in  oven  and  bake  about   15  or  20 
minutes. — Mrs.  Herbert  G.  Knopp.. 


SPAGHETTI  WITH  HAM  AND  CHEESE  (Original.) 
Boil  desired  amount  of  spaghetti  in  salted  water.     Place  a  layer  in 
baking  dish,  then  a  very  thin  layer  of  grated  cheese  and  ground  boiled  ham 
mixed.     Alternate  until  dish  is  full,  having  cheese  and  ham  on  top.    Make 
thin  white  sauce  and  pour  over  and  bake. — Mrs.  J.  R.  Pfander. 


SPAGHETTI  FOR  LUNCHEON. 
Put  a  package  of  spaghetti  in  a  gallon  of  boiling  water  with  a  handful 
of  salt.  Cook  about  eighteen  to  twenty  minutes,  according  to  the  brand. 
Place  a  small  pot  on  the  range  with  a  spoonful  of  clarified  butter.  Drop 
in  a  clove  of  chopped  garlic,  half  an  onion  and  a  piece  of  ham  trimming. 
When  brown  put  in  one  quart  of  tomatoes,  salt  and  pepper  and  a  bay  leaf. 
Reduce  to  one-half.  Drain  the  spaghetti  and  strain  the  tomato  sauce  over, 
and  add  a  piece  of  table  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut  and  a  pinch  of  nutmeg. 
Serve  hot  in  the  chafing  dish  with  grated  Parmesan  cheese  on  the  side.  An 
addition  of  shredded  smoked  tongue,  button  mushrooms  and  rings  of  stoned 
olives,  make  a  variety  good  for  a  change. 


There's  Pleasure  and  Profit  in  Buying  Shoes  Here 


Ice  Cream 


Lunch 


Candy 


ADDINGTON 


Milk 


Butter 


Eggs 


Hopkins  Bros. 

GROCERY 

Phones  Main  1414  and  1415 
430  FULTON  ST. 

CHURCHES 
CREAMERY 

Both  Phones  3765 
112  South  Madison  Ave. 


Henry  Oesterley 

GROCER 

801  Third  Ave. 
Phone  Main  5343 


=  CALL    3  5  7=-- 


60G  S.  ADAMS  ST. 


PEORIA  WOMEN'S  COOK  BOOK  .73 

TO  COOK  APPLES. 
1  Yl  CUP  sugar,  5   cents  cinnamon  drops. 

1  Yl  CUP  water, 

Let  boil  slowly  while  paring  and  coring  ten  apples.  Place  apples  on 
end  in  liquor  and  let  boil  for  1 5  minutes.  Carefully  turn  and  boil  1 5 
minutes.     Fill  cavity  with  nuts  and  serve  with  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  R.  W.  Patty. 


BOILED  APPLES. 

Wash  the  desired  number  of  apples  and  cut  off  stems,  but  do  not  core 
nor  peel.  Put  them  in  kettle  with  plenty  of  boiling  water  and  when  partly 
done  add  sugar.  Boil  moderately  until  done.  The  apples  will  remain 
whole. — Ella  Elizabeth  Clark. 


CHEESE  STRAWS. 
One  cup  flour  in  bread  bowl,  a  little  salt,  a  dash  of  cayenne  pepper, 
2  tablespoons  of  butter  mixed  in  flour.  Put  on  bread  board  and  roll,  toss 
together  and  roll  again.  Now  add  one-third  pound  of  grated  cheese,  mix 
through  the  flour,  add  3  tablespoons  of  cold  water,  roll  out  and  cut  in 
narrow  strips  and  bake.     Use  pastry  wheel  to  cut  with. 

Miss  Laura  Thompson. 


DUTCH  CREAM  CHEESE. 
Two  brick  blue  label  cream  cheese,   Yl    »»•   butter,    1    teaspoon  of 
capers,  chopped,  paprika  to  taste,  juice  one  onion,  a  little  pimento. 

Mrs.  J.  J.  Maister. 


CHEESE  SOUFFLE. 
2   tablespoons  butter,  Whites  of  3  eggs, 

Yl  cup  milk,  2  tablespoons  flour, 

Ya  cuP  grated  cheese  (American)         Yl  teaspoon  of  salt, 
Little  cayenne  pepper,  Yolks  of  3  eggs. 

Make  a  sauce  of  the  butter,  flour  and  milk,  adding  salt,  cayenne  and 
cheese.  Remove  from  fire  and  add  the  yolks  which  have  been  beaten.  Let 
mixture  cool  before  folding  in  the  whites  beaten  stiff.  Pour  into  buttered 
baking  dish.  Bake  twenty  minutes  in  a  slow  oven.  This  makes  a  nice 
luncheon  dish  or  can  be  served  as  a  course  for  dinner  if  baked  in  ramequins. 

Mrs.  Clark  Vance. 


74  PEORIA  WOMEN'S  COOK  BOOK 

CHEESE  BALLS. 
Beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs.      Add  pepper  and  salt.  .  Add  grated 
cheese  to  form  into  balls.     Drop  in  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs,  then  in  bread 
crumbs.     Fry  in  deep  fat.     3  eggs  serve  ten. — Mrs.  W.  B.  Reed. 


AMBROSIA. 

Six  bananas,   3  oranges,  peel  and  slice  thin.      1    small  pineapple,    1 

package  shredded  cocoanut,  1  cup  sugar.     Arrange  in  a  deep  dish  in  layers, 

bananas,  oranges,  sugar,  pineapple,  and  cocoanut  until  all  is  used.      Have 

pineapple  on  top.     Keep  in  ice  box  until  ready  to  serve. — Sadie  McBride. 


FONDUE  SAVARIN. 
Fondue  is  a  mixture  of  cheese,  eggs,  cream  made  into  a  light,  creamy 
consistency  as  follows:  place  the  yolks  of  eight  eggs  in  a  pan  with  half  a 
pound  of  butter  broken  into  bits  and  eight  ounces  of  grated  cheese;  season 
with  cayenne,  salt  and  a  little  black  pepper.  Put  on  the  fire  in  a  double 
boiler,  wisking  with  a  wire  spoon  until  it  thickens.     Serve  on  toasted  bread. 

One  of  the  World's  Famous  Chefs. 


CHERRY  SOUP. 
One  qt.  of  sour  cherries,  simmer  slowly  in  1  qt.  of  water  until  tender, 
then  rub  through  a  sieve  and  return  to  the  fire.  Sweeten  with  Yl  CUP  of 
sugar  and  when  boiling  thicken  slightly  with  an  even  tablespoonful  of  com 
starch  rubbed  to  a  paste  with  a  little  cold  water.  As  soon  as  the  soup  looks 
clear  take  from  the  fire,  add  1  teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice,  and  put  aside  to 
cool.  Serve  in  glasses  or  cups  with  cracked  ice  added  just  before  it  goes  to 
the  table. — Mrs.  George  Fitch. 


PINEAPPLE  FRITTERS. 
Make  batter  with  one  egg  beaten  very  light,  Yl  cup  milk,  I  teaspoon 
melted  butter,  1  cup  flour  through  which  has  been  sifted  1  teaspoon  baking 
powder  and  1  teaspoon  salt.  Peel  a  small  ripe  pineapple,  slice,  and  sprinkle 
with  sugar.  Let  stand  an  hour  before  ready  to  make  fritters.  Drain  the 
pineapple,  dip  each  in  batter,  and  fry  in  very  hot  lard.  Sprinkle  with 
powdered  sugar  and  serve  with  piece  of  the  pineapple. 

Mrs.  C.  N.  Newlin. 


SALADS 


Oh,  herbaceous  treat!     'Twould  tempt  the  dying  anchorite  to  eat. 
Sydney  Smith. 


POTATO  SALAD. 
Boil  potatoes  in  skins.  Do  not  peel  until  cold.  Cut  in  dice.  To 
every  pint  of  potato  add  Yl  tablespoon  chopped  onion  and  Yl  teaspoon 
salt.  Cover  and  allow  to  stand  several  hours.  Make  a  dressing  of  2  well 
beaten  eggs,  1  teaspoon  sugar,  2  teaspoons  salt,  2  tablespoons  flour,  2 
teaspoons  mixed  mustard,  Yl  CUP  milk,  Yl  cup  vinegar.  Mix  dry  ingred- 
ients, add  egg  slowly  then  milk  and  vinegar.  Put  in  double  boiler,  when 
slightly  heated  add  2  tablespoons  olive  oil.  Cook  until  it  thickens.  When 
cold  add  to  your  potato  mixture  and  mix  thoroughly.  A  little  chopped  green 
pepper,  tomato,  celery,  pickle  or  a  little  grated  cheese  improves  it. 

Mrs.  Gloyd  W.  Wray. 


SALMON  SALAD. 
1    can  salmon,  2   boiled  eggs, 

5   pickles  sliced,  2   tablespoons  cream. 

Mix  above  and  over  mixture  pour  dressing  made  as  follows: 
Heat  1   tablespoon  vinegar,  1    tablespoon  sugar, 

1    tablespoon  prepared  mustard,  1    tablespoon   butter, 


Mrs.  A.  R.  McLaughlin. 


SALMON  AND  RICE  SALAD. 

1  can  salmon,  2   cups  of  boiled  rice, 

2  boiled  eggs,  Dash  of  cayenne  pepper, 
2   tablespoons  melted  butter,  1    teaspoon  parsley, 
Salt  and  pepper,                                        Add  eggs  last. 

Dressing  for  above: 
I    teaspoon  salt,  1    teaspoon  of  sugar, 

1    teaspoon  flour,  1    teaspoon  mustard, 

I    egg,  Cook  in  double  boiler, 

Butter,  size  of  a  walnut,  Thin  with  cream. 

Mrs.  Reese  Williams,  Twin  Falls,  Idaho. 


76  PEORIA  WOMEN'S  COOK  BOOK 

VEAL  SALAD. 
1    cup  chopped  veal,  4  hard  cooked  eggs,  chopped, 

1    cup  chopped  celery, 
Dressing  for  above: 
1    cup  vinegar,  Ya   CUP  butter, 

4  egg  yolks,  well  beaten,  Y*   teaspoon  salt, 

1    teaspoon  mustard,  3  tablespoons  sugar. 

1    tablespoon  flour, 

Mix  and  cook  until  thick;  add  whipped  cream  if  desired. 

Mrs.  H.  B.  Huey,  Gibson  City,  111. 


CHICKEN  SALAD. 
Cut  cold  boiled  fowl  in   Yl   incn  dice.      For  two  cups  of  chicken, 
add  1  Yl  CUPS  chopped  celery  and  moisten  with  cream  dressing  or  mayon- 
naise dressing.     Mound  on  a  lettuce  leaf,  cover  with  dressing  and  garnish 
with  thin  slices  of  pickles — Eva  L.  Straesser. 


TUNA  FISH  SALAD. 

In  taste,  delicious,  in  appearance,  artistic,  for  buffet  luncheon. 

To  one  pint  of  Tuna  fish,  add  one-half  head  of  finely  chopped  cabbage, 
two  bunches  of  shredded  celery,  three  red  pimentos,  torn  to  bits  and  the 
small  leaves  of  one  head  lettuce.  Mix  with  mayonnaise  dressing  made 
billowy  with  whipped  cream.  Garnish  with  crisp  lettuce  leaves  on  which 
heap  the  salad,  adding  mounds  of  the  whipped  cream  dressing  sprinkled  with 
paprica. — Mrs.  W.  A.  Hinckle. 


VEGETABLE  SALAD. 
1    teaspoon  gelatine,  A  few  nuts, 

1  tablespoon  sugar,  6  tablespoons   boiling  water, 

2  olives,  Ya  cup  celery,  cut  in  small  cubes, 
2  tablespoons  cold  water,                       Pimento.        • 

1    tablespoon  lemon  juice, 

Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water,  add  sugar,  lemon  juice  and  boiling  water. 
When  it  begins  to  thicken  add  olives,  sliced  thin,  celery,  nuts  and  pimento, 
cut  small.  Mold  in  cups  which  have  been  chilled.  Serve  with  salad 
dressing. — Miss  Mary  Mclntyre. 


PEORIA  WOMEN'S  COOK  BOOK  77 

CUCUMBER  SALAD. 
Place  in  a  bowl  a  small  piece  of  ice,  over  this  pour  1   tablespoon  of 
Worchester  sauce.     Stir  into  this  a  tablespoon  olive  oil  and  a  teaspoon  lemon 
juice.     Stir  until  thick.     Take  out  ice  and  serve  over  cold  sliced  cucumbers. 

Mrs.  E.  A.  Jonas,  Henderson,  Ky. 


SWEET  BREAD  AND  CUCUMBER  SALAD. 
Parboil  a  sweet  bread,  adding  to  water  a  bit  of  bay  leaf,  a  slice  of 
onion  and  a  blade  of  mace.  Cook  and  cut  in  small  cubes.  There  should  be 
%  cup.  Add  an  equal  amount  of  cucumber  cubes  or  celery.  Beat  Yl 
cup  thick  cream  until  stiff,  add,  Ya  tablespoon  granulated  gelatine  soaked 
in  Yl  tablespoon  cold  water  and  dissolved  in  1  Yl  teaspoon  boiling  water. 
Then  add  1  Yl  tablespoon  vinegar.  Add  your  sweet  bread  and  cucumber, 
mix  carefully,  mold  and  chill.  Arrange  on  lettuce  and  serve  with  mayon- 
naise.— Mrs.  Gloyd  W.  Wray. 


BEET  AND  CABBAGE  SALAD. 
Yl  head  raw  cabbage,  Pepper  and  salt. 

6  cold  beets, 

Shread  cabbage,  soak  an  hour  in  ice  water,  drain.  Mix  with  beets 
cut  in  cubes.  Sprinkle  with  salt,  pepper  and  minced  onion.  Serve  with 
French  dressing. — Mrs.  E.  A.  Garrett. 


CABBAGE  SLAW. 
One-half  cup  each  of  sugar,  vinegar,  and  sweet  milk.      Pour  over 
finely  chopped  cabbage,  previously  seasoned  with  salt. — Mrs.  J.  F.    Faber. 


LETTUCE  SALAD. 
Arrange  head  lettuce  leaves  on  salad  plate.     On  these  scatter  cream 
cheese  and  celery  which  has  been  cut  in  small  pieces,  also  small  cubes  of 
banana  and  a  few  seedless  grapes.     Over  this  serve  a  good  salad  dressing. 

Mrs.  M.  J.  Grieves. 


MEAT  RELISH. 
Use  canned  pears.     Roll  the  pears  in  finely  chopped  nuts.     Place  on 
lettuce  leaves  and  cover  with  mayonnaise  dressing. — Sadie  R.  McBride. 


78  PEORIA  WOMEN'S  COOK  BOOK 

SALAD 
Yl  package  Gelatine  No.  1 ,  1    teaspoon  salt, 

Yl  cup  cold  water,  1    green  pepper   (sweet), 

1  pint  boiling  water,  1    red  pepper   (sweet), 
Juice  of  one  lemon,                                  1    boiled  carrot, 
Vinegar,   (to  taste),  1    can  French  peas, 

Yl  cup  sugar,  Ya  lb-  blanched  almonds. 

2  cups  celery, 

Soak  Gelatine  in  cold  water  two  minutes.  Add  vinegar,  lemon  juice, 
boiling  water,  sugar  and  salt.  Strain,  and  when  beginning  to  set  add  re- 
maining ingredients  which  have  been  diced.  Turn  into  molds  and  chill. 
Serve  with  boiled  dressing. — Mrs.  Wm.  W.  Meeker. 


EGG  AND  TOMATO  JELLY  SALAD. 
Cook  one  pint  of  tomatoes,  a  bay  leaf  and  onion  chopped  fine,  and  a 
stalk  of  celery  for  fifteen  minutes;  add  one-fourth  package  gelatine  previously 
soaked;  strain  and  season  highly,  with  salt,  pepper,  sugar,  etc.,  chill  four 
cups;  press  half  a  hard  boiled  egg  dipped  in  liquid  gelatine  against  the  side 
of  each  cup;  when  set  fill  the  cup  with  jelly;  unmold  on  shredded  lettuce 
and  serve  with  mayonnaise. — Mrs.  W.  C.  Tibbetts. 


MOCK  TOMATO  SALAD. 
Peel  and  core  apples  of  uniform  size.     Put  them  in  boiling  water,  to 
which  has  been  added  one  cup  of  red  peppermint  drops.     By  the  time  the 
apples  are  tender,  they  will  be  the  color  of  ripe  tomatoes.     Garnish  with 
mayonnaise  dressing,  and  serve  on  a  bed  of  endive  or  watercress. 

Mrs.  J.  W.  Bryne. 


BEAN  SALAD. 
1    can  kidney  beans,  1    cup  chopped  celery, 

Yl  cup  pickles  chopped,  1    medium  sized  onion. 

Serve  with  mayonnaise  dressing. — Mrs.  W.  D.  Starnes. 


GREEN  BEAN  SALAD. 
1    pt.  cooked  green  stringless  beans,      1    cup  celery,  cut. 
I    cup  onion  chopped  fine, 

Mix  all  together  well  with  mayonnaise  dressing.      Serve  on   lettuce 
leaves. — Mrs.  J.  C.  Wynd. 


PEORIA  WOMEN'S  COOK  BOOK  79 

ASPARAGUS  TIP  SALAD. 
Chop  parsley,  olives  and  green  peppers  and  put  over  asparagus  tips. 
Serve  with  mayonnaise. — Mrs.  H.  L.  Clark. 


FRUIT  SALAD. 
Slice  2  bananas,  1  orange,  enough  pineapple  to  make  half  a  cup,  and 
J/2  cup  pitted  cherries.     Mix,  lay  on  lettuce,  and  pour  over  French  dress- 
ing.    Just  before  serving  sprinkle  with  grated  cocoanut.     Serve  cold. 

Lilah  Stowers,  Owensboro,  Ky. 


SALAD. 
Place  three  lettuce  leaves  in  a  plate  and  on  them  lay  a  slice  of  canned 
pineapple,   a  half  of  a  peach,   and  scatter  nut  meats  over  a  mayonnaise 
dressing  on  the  top.     Add  a  spoonful  of  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  Winslow  Evans. 


MARSHMALLOW  SALAD. 
One-half  pound  white  grapes  seeded  and  cut.     One-half  pound  marsh- 
mallows  cut  into  quarters.     One  cup  of  nuts.     One-half  cup  celery  cut  fine. 
Whipped  cream  with  enough  mayonnaise  to  make  it  tasty. 

Mrs.  A.  E.  Giles. 


ORANGE  SALAD. 
Peel  one  orange  and  cut  in  strips,  removing  tissue.     Place  one-half 
orange  on  plate  of  garnish,  scatter  over  this  a  few  nuts  cut  in  small  pieces, 
then  second  layer  of  orange,  a  few  more  nuts  and  over  all  a  good  salad 
dressing. — Mrs.  A.  A.  Harding. 


PINEAPPLE  SALAD. 
I    can  of  sliced  pineapple,  1    lb.  of  New  York  cheese, 

J/2   can  pimento    (small  size), 

Grind  cheese  and  pimentoes  together,  mix  and  form  in  balls,  place 
one  cheese  ball  in  center  of  each  slice  of  pineapple,  drop  around  the  pine- 
apple a  spoonful  of  whipped  cream  to  which  salad  dressing  has  been 
added,   serve  on   lettuce  leaves.      This  will  serve  9   plates. 

Mrs.   G.  S.   Muchmore. 


80  PEORIA  WOMEN'S  COOK  BOOK 

PEAR  SALAD. 
Drain  canned  pears,  place  Yl  °f  a  Pear  on  chilled  lettuce  with  the 
hollow  part  of  pear  turned  up.     Fill  the  hollow  with  pecan  meats.     Drop 
a  teaspoon  of  mayonnaise  dressing.     Cover  all  with  whipped  cream,  place  a 
cherry  on  top. — Mrs.  W.  B.  Reed. 


GRAPE  FRUIT  SALAD. 
Two  grape  fruit  broken  in  small  pieces,  1  cup  celery,  Yl  CUP  English 
walnuts,  mix  with  cream  boiled  dressing.  After  arranging  on  lettuce  leaves, 
cover  top  with  almonds,  blanched  and  ground.  Cream  boiled  dressing: 
Put  2  slightly  beaten  egg  yolks  in  double  boiler,  add  slowly  4  tablespoons 
hot  vinegar,  beating  until  thick,  add  2  tablespoons  butter,  1  teaspoon  salt, 
1  teaspoon  sugar,  Yl  teaspoon  mustard,  a  little  paprika.  When  ready  to 
serve  add  %  cup  whipped  cream. — Mrs.  J.  W.  Byrne. 


PRUNE  AND  PECAN  SALAD. 
Mix  Yl  pound  cooked  prunes,  cut  lengthwise  and  J/£  pound  pecans, 
seasoned  with  a  dash  of  paprika  and  salt.  Add  1  cup  of  whipped  cream, 
Yl  teaspoon  paprika,  Ya  teaspoon  salt,  2  tablespoons  lemon  juice.  Beat 
until  firm.  Mix  with  prunes  and  pecans,  saving  a  few  for  top.  Put  a 
spoonful  on  lettuce  leaves. — Mrs.  H.  L.  Clark. 


LEMON  JELLY  SALAD. 
1    package  Gelatine,  A  little  salt, 

Yl  cup  nuts,  2  cups  or  1   pt.  boiling  water, 

1  cup  cold  water,  Yl  CUP  lemon  juice, 

Y$  cup  sugar,  2  slices  pineapple  cut  in  cubes, 

2  oranges,  1    banana. 
Coloring, 

Add  fruit  when  the  jelly  is  setting.      Mold  in  small  ramekins  and 
serve  on  a  lettuce  leaf  with  salad  dressing.     Excellent. 

Mrs.  Wellington  Housworth. 


COTTAGE  CHEESE  AND  PIMENTO  SALAD. 
Take  2  cups  of  cottage  cheese,  a  small  can  of  pimentoes,  cut  in  small 
pieces  and  mix  thoroughly.      Then  add    mayonnaise    dressing    and    mix 
thoroughly.     Serve  on  lettuce  leaf. — Mrs.  C.  L.  Venard. 


PEORIA  WOMEN'S  COOK  BOOK  81 

PIMENTO  CHEESE  SALAD. 
Measure  and  have  all  ingredients  ready  for  mixture  before  you  start 
putting  these  together  as  you  need  to  work  fast.  Yl  CUP  whipping  cream,  1 
tablespoon  gelatine  dissolved  in  2  tablespoons  boiling  water,  1  tablespoon 
lemon  juice,  two-thirds  cup  grated  cheese,  one-third  cup  chopped  pimentoes, 
Yl  cup  blanched  almonds.  Stir  cheese,  pimento,  and  lemon  juice.  Add 
dissolved  gelatine,  fold  in  whipped  cream.  Stuff  green  peppers  with  the 
mixture.  In  serving  place  a  large  slice  of  pineapple  on  lettuce  hearts.  Slice 
peppers  with  very  sharp  knife  and  lay  about  pineapple.  Serve  with  mayon- 
naise or  whipped  cream. — Mrs.  F.   H.   Putnam. 


PERFECTION  SALAD. 
1    envelope  of  gelatine,  Yl  CUP  Pure  fruit  acid, 

Yl  cup  of  cold  water,  1    cup  finely  shredded  cabbage, 

1    teaspoon  salt,  Yl  CUP  °f  sugar, 

1    pint  boiling  water,  2  cups  celery  cut  in  small  pieces, 

1    cup  of  vinegar,  Y*  can  sweet  red  pepper. 

Soak  the  gelatine  in  cold  water,  add  vinegar,  pure  fruit  acid,  dis- 
solved in  boiling  water,  sugar  and  salt.     Add  celery,  cabbage  and  peppers. 

Mrs.  Winslow  Evans. 


ALMOND  SALAD. 
Chop  and  stone  ten  olives,  add  one-half  cup  blanched  almonds  chopped, 
also  one-half  cup  tender  celery  cut  fine ;  mix  with  salad  dressing  and  serve  on 
lettuce  leaf.— Mrs.  W.  C.  Tibbetts. 


KITCHEN 
EQUIPMENT 


Doesn't  that  suggest 
something  you  will 
need    in    Hardware  ? 

Try  our  quick  deliv- 
ery with  your  next 
order. 


BECKER'S  HARDWARE 

1506  Main  St.        «w(fflg 


FOR  THRIFTY  PEOPLE 

State 
Trust  and  Savings  Bank 

Cor.  Jefferson  and  Liberty  Sts. 

Cutter-Wrigley 
Coal  and  Feed  Co. 

BOTH  PHONES  1183 
1610    S.   WASHINGTON    ST. 


E.  J.  WRIGHT  &  CO. 

HOME 

PACKED 

FRUITS 

Come  in  and  see  our  display. 


230  South  Jefferson  Street 

Opposite  Herald-Transcript 


Fine  Candies 


Light  Luncheons 


313  MAIN  Sl- 


ice Cream 


Bakery 


DR.  M.  J.  GRIEVES 

Osteopathic  Physician 

Phone  Main  3442 

525  Woolner  Building 


SALAD  DRESSINGS 


MAYONNAISE  DRESSING.    (Boiled.) 

2   eggs,  1    heaping  tablespoonful  flour, 

1    tablespoonful  sugar,  Butter,  size  of  egg, 

1    small  teaspoonful  salt,  1    tablespoonful  mustard    (ground). 

Yl  cup  vinegar, 

Mix  flour,  sugar,  salt  and  mustard  in  bowl.  Add  vinegar  and  eggs 
well  beaten.  Put  butter  and  two-thirds  cup  boiling  water  in  sauce  pan. 
Pour  above  mixture  in  gradually  and  boil  about  six  minutes.  Stir  con- 
stantly.— Mrs.  T.  G.  Lowry. 


MAYONNAISE  DRESSING. 

3  whole  eggs,  beaten  light,  3  heaping  teaspoons  sugar, 

1    rounded  tablespoon  dry  mustard,      Two-thirds  cup  vinegar, 
1    level  tablespoon  salt,  I    cup  sour  cream. 

One-third  cup  water. 

Mix  all  together  with  a  dover  beater  and  cook  in  a  double  boiler  until 
thick.     This  makes  almost  a  quart  and  will  keep  indefinitely. — Mrs.  Mayer. 


MOCK  MAYONNAISE  SALAD  DRESSING. 
Mix  thoroughly  1  teaspoon  of  salt,  Yl  tablespoon  of  mustard,  3  table- 
spoons of  sugar,  2  teaspoons  flour,  and  add  4  egg  yolks  (2  whole  eggs) 
well  beaten.  Heat  5  tablespoons  butter  and  24  CUP  of  cream,  and  add  to 
the  egg  mixture  slowly.  Cook  over  hot  water  until  thick,  stirring  constantly. 
Add  J/4  cup  of  vinegar,  slowly.     Strain  and  chill,  thin  with  cream. 

Mrs.  Tressa  O'Hern. 


FRENCH  DRESSING  FOR  FRUIT  SALAD. 
Yolks  two  egg  beaten  in  bowl  (real  cold.)     Slowly  beat  in  good  fresh 
olive  oil  until  very  stiff,  then  gradually  add  salt  to  taste,  dash  of  cayenne 
pepper,  and  juice  of  half  lemon.     Four  tablespoons  whipped  cream  makes 
it  mild  and  delicate. — Mrs.  C.  E.  Beckwith. 


84  PEORIA  WOMEN'S  COOK  BOOK 

FRENCH  DRESSING. 
Salt,  paprika,  sugar,  and  dash  of  cayenne,  3  tablespoons  of  olive  oil 
to  one  tablespoon  vinegar. — Sadie  McBride. 


SALAD  DRESSING  FROM  SOUR  CREAM. 
1    cup  of  sour  cream,  4  eggs, 

4   tablespoons  of  sugar,  2   level  teaspoons  ground  mustard, 

1 0  tablespoons    vinegar,  Salt  to  taste. 

Stir  mustard  into  sugar,  add  the  eggs  well  beaten  and  the  sour  cream, 
then  the  vinegar  slowly,  cook  in  double  boiler  until  it  thickens.  Take  from 
fire,  add  salt  and  strain.     Keeps  well. — Mrs.  Jennie  Adair  Johnston. 


SALAD  DRESSING. 
2  teaspoons  of  mustard,  12  teaspoons  sugar, 

4   teaspoons  flour  or  corn  starch,  2  teaspoons  of  salt. 

j/2  teaspoon  red  pepper, 

Make  paste  with  j/2  cup  of  water,  add  5  eggs  beaten  well,  1  cup 
vinegar.  Cook  until  thick.  When  needed  add  either  sweet  or  sour  milk 
or  whipped  cream. — Mrs.  Harry  C.  Shane. 


SALAD  DRESSING. 
Four  eggs,  beaten,  pour  in  slowly,  cup  vinegar,  two-thirds  cup  sugar, 
add  1    tablespoon  flour,   1    teaspoon  salt,  pinch  of  red  pepper,   1    teaspoon 
mustard,  all  mixed  in  sugar,  add  to  eggs  and  vinegar,  cook  till  thickens, 
add  butter  size  of  walnut  and  cream  to  thin. — Mrs.  Walter  Wyatt. 


BOILED  SALAD  DRESSING. 
I    teaspoon  mustard,  4  tablespoons  butter, 

1  teaspoon  salt  or  of  celery  salt,  1    cup  milk, 
Sprinkle  of  cayenne,                                 Vi  cup  vinegar, 

2  tablespoons  flour,  2   egg  yolks. 
2  tablespoons  sugar, 

Cream  the  dry  ingredients  and  the  butter,  add  egg  yolks  and  milk, 
and  cook  until  thick,  stirring  constantly.     Add  vinegar.     Will  keep  well. 

Flora  C.  Moore. 


PEORIA  WOMEN'S  COOK  BOOK  85 

CREAM  DRESSING  FOR  SLAW. 
2   tablespoons  whipped  sweet  cream,      4   tablespoons  vinegar. 
2  tablespoons  sugar, 

Beat  well,  pour  over  cabbage  previously  cut  fine  and  seasoned  with 
salt.— Mrs.  W.  C.  Tibbetts. 


BELGIUM  DRESSING. 
An  original  Dressing  by  Milo  Prochazka. 

1  tablespoon  English  mustard,  Ya  teaspoon  paprika, 

2  tablespoons  of  sugar,  1  Yl  cup  of  20%  cream, 
1  Yl  tablespoons  of  flour,                         3  eggs  well  beaten, 

5   tablespoons  of  melted  butter,  Ya  cup  Malt  vinegar, 

I    teaspoon  of  salt, 

Put  all  ingredients  except  the  vinegar  into  a  double  boiler.  After 
cooking  starts  add  vinegar.  Stir  while  cooking.  When  ready  to  use,  thin 
with  cream  to  suit. 


CHIFFONADE  DRESSING. 

One  hard  boiled  egg,  yolk  and  white  minced  separately,  Yl  cooked 

beet,  Yl  tablespoon  olives  chopped  fine,  2  tablespoons  mayonnaise.     Thin 

with  tarragon  vinegar,  add  salt,  little  sugar  and  a  dash  of  cayenne.     This 

is  fine  on  head  lettuce,  with  a  few  white  cherries  scattered  over  the  lettuce. 

Sadie  McBride. 


BOHEMIAN  CHEESE  DRESSING. 
An  original  dish  by  Milso  Prochazka. 
Yl  pound  Roquefort  cheese,  Yl  cup  malt  vinegar, 

Yl  cup  water,  Juice  of  one  lemon, 

1   cup  of  good  olive  oil,  Season  with  salt  and  paprika. 

Put  all  through  a  sieve,  then  pour  into  a  bowl  that  has  been  rubbed 
with  garlic.  Good  cream,  substituted  for  the  olive  oil,  will  make  a  good 
dressing. 


THOUSAND  ISLAND  DRESSING. 
Two   tablespoons   mayonnaise,    2    tablespoons   chille   sauce,    Yl    red 
pimento,  Yl  green  pepper,  Yl  tablespoon  olives.     All  chopped  fine.     Mix 
well  and  dress  with  a  good  French  dressing. — Sadie  McBride. 


HAUSAM  BROS. 
MARKET 

Fancy  Groceries,  Meats 

and  a  full  line  of 

our  own  make 

Bakery 

Goods 

221-23  Main  St. 


Charles  E.  Gerber 

Dealer  in 

FRESH  AND  SALTED 

MEATS 

Sausages  of  All  Kinds 

Home  Made  Veal  Loaf 

and  Corn  Beef 

Poultry,  Sauer  Kraut  and 
Pickles 

910  SPENCER  ST. 

Both  Phones   790 


YOU  CAN  BUY  OF 

F.  MEYER  BRO. 
<&  CO. 

An  ACORN  RANGE,  the  best 
baker  on  earth. 

And  the  handsomest  PARLOR 
STOVE  on  the  market. 

And  a  WEIR  FURNACE  that 
keeps  every  room  in  the  house 
warm. 

And  HARDWAREandTOOLS 
of  every  description. 


s.  B.  Dooly 
Res.  Phone 
Main  5158 


Jacob  Brumnga 
Res.  Phone  5898 


DOOLY  QL 

BRUNINGA 

PLUMBERS 

SEWER  CONTRACTORS 

Steam  and  Hot  Water 
Heating 

JOBBING  A  SPECIALTY 
334  S.  Jefferson 

Both  Phones  Main  3840 


CAKES 

Whatsoever  thy  hand  findeth  to  do,  do  it  with  thy  might.  —Bible. 


"WHITE  CAKE." 
Yl   cup   butter,    (scant),  2  teaspoons  baking  powder, 

1  J/2  cups  sugar,  (sifted),  Whites  of  four  eggs, 

1    cup  cold  water,  Flavor. 

3  cups  flour, 

Mrs.  L.  E.  Graham. 


WHITE  CAKE. 
Put  the  whites  of  two  eggs  into  a  cup,  add  enough  soft  butter  to  make 
the  cup  half  full,  and  fill  with  sweet  milk.  Turn  this  into  mixing  bowl, 
where  you  have  already  placed  one  cupful  of  sugar,  2  cupsful  of  flour,  1  Yl 
teaspoons  baking  powder  and  1  Yl  teaspoons  lemon  extract.  Stir  and  beat 
for  five  minutes.  Add  enough  milk  to  make  proper  consistency.  Bake  in 
quick  oven. — Blanche  Grady. 


ANGEL  FOOD  CAKE. 
Whites  of  1 0  eggs,  1    teaspoon  cream  tartar, 

1  Yl  CUPS  sugar,  sifted  6  or  8  times,      1    teaspoon  vanilla, 
1    cup  flour,  sifted  6  or  8  times,  Candied  cherries. 

Beat  whites  of  eggs  to  a  foam,  add  cream  of  tartar  and  beat  to  a  stiff 
froth.  Fold  in  gradually  the  sugar  and  flour,  lastly  the  vanilla  and  candied 
cherries  cut  in  small  pieces  and  dredged  lightly  with  flour.  Bake  about 
45  minutes  in  unbuttered  pan  in  a  moderately  slow  oven.  If  cake  browns 
on  top  of  pan,  throw  open  the  oven  door  for  a  few  seconds.  When  baked 
remove  from  oven,  invert  pan  and  let  hang  for  half  an  hour. 

FROSTING. 

Boil  2  cups  of  sugar  and  Yl  CUP  °f  water  until  it  will  form  a  soft  ball 
when  tried  in  cold  water.  Have  the  whites  of  2  eggs,  beaten  in  a  bowl 
and  add  gradually  the  syrup,  beating  constantly  until  of  the  right  consistency 
to  spread.  When  icing  is  cool,  spread  a  thin  layer  of  bitter  chocolate, 
which  has  been  melted,  over  the  entire  cake. — Ethel  G.  Hatfield. 


88  PEORIA  WOMEN'S  COOK  BOOK 

ANGEL  FOOD. 
Whites  of  8  large  or  9  small  eggs,  1  cup  of  flour,  1 Ya  cup  of  granu- 
lated sugar,  scant  Yl  teaspoon  cream  tartar,  pinch  of  salt  in  eggs  before 
whipping,  flavor  to  taste.  Sift  sugar  twice,  sift  flour  4  or  5  times.  Whip 
eggs  to  a  foam,  add  cream  tartar,  whip  until  very  stiff,  add  sugar  and  beat 
in  (always  using  a  spoon  to  mix  cake  with)  then  the  flavor,  beat  in,  then 
flour,  fold  it  lightly  through.  Bake  at  once  in  a  moderate  oven  from  20 
to  40  minutes. — Mrs.  Joseph  Ogle. 


ANGEL  FOOD  CAKE. 
1    large  cup  sugar,  1    large  cup  flour, 

Whites   1  3  eggs,  Y*  teaspoonful  cream  of  tartar. 

Pinch  salt, 

Beat  whites  of  eggs  and  when  frothy  add  cream  of  tartar.  Beat  very 
stiff.  Sift  flour  and  sugar  several  times.  Add  sugar  gradually  to  eggs  and 
fold  flour  in  lightly. — Mrs.  C.  V.  Engstrom. 


MOCK  ANGEL  FOOD. 
1    cup  boiled  milk,  3  teaspoons  baking  powder, 

1    cup  flour,  Pinch  salt. 

1    cup  sugar, 

Sift  flour,  sugar,  baking  powder  and  salt  together  three  times,  then 
add  the  boiled  milk,  and  the  beaten  whites  of  two  eggs;  use  no  flavoring. 
Bake  in  a  loaf  or  in  layer  tins. — Mrs.  Wm.  B.  Murray. 


SUNSHINE  CAKE.  (Very  Fine.) 
Boil  1  Ya,  cups  granulated  sugar  and  Yl  CUP  water  until  it  threads. 
While  hot  add  slowly  to  the  beaten  whites  of  6  eggs  into  which  1  level 
teaspoon  of  cream  of  tartar  has  been  added.  Then  add  beaten  yolks  of  6 
eggs,  1  teaspoon  vanilla,  lastly  fold  in  1  cup  sifted  flour.  Put  in  angle  food 
pan  and  bake  1  hour.  Test,  if  done,  invert  pan  and  allow  to  cool  before 
removing  from  pan. — Mrs.  J.  A.  Plumer,  Trivoli,  111. 


CREAM  SPONGE  CAKE. 
Break  2  eggs  into  a  cup,  fill  the  cup  with  sour  cream,  add  1  cup  sugar, 
1  teaspoon  cream  tartar,  1  cup  flour,  Yl  teaspoon  soda.     Salt  and  flavor. 

Mrs.  J.  A.  Munson,  Morris,  111. 


AsK  Your 
GROCER 

Those  who  buy  SWANS 
DOWN  CAKE  FLOUR 
once  always  come  back  for 
more.  :-:  There's  such  a 
difference  between  cakes 
made  of  Swans  Down  and 
cakes  made  of  ordinary 
flour. 


Grand  Trize  World's  Fair,  St.  Louis,  1904 


IGLEHEART'S 


SWANS  DOWN 

Prepared  (Not  Self-Rising) 

CAKE  FLOUR 


Not  like  heavy,  glutenous 
bread  flour  sold  in  sacks  and 
barrels. 

Swans  Down  Cake  Flour 

is  a  smooth,  creamy,  light  flour  , 
made  especially  for  fine  cakes 
and  pastry. 


S*^S    D°*«    G/^ 


TRY  IT= 


I6LEHEART  BROTHERS 

Established  1856 
EVANSVILLE,        ::         ::         INDIANA 


Recommended  &  Sold  By, 
All  Good  Grocers ♦ 


HOW  TO  IMPROVE  YOUR  CAKE 


IT  IS  INTERESTING- 
READ  IT! 


The  excellence  of  a  cake  depends  upon  its  lightness,  texture,  color  and 
taste. 

Cake  is  made  light  by  the  enlargement  of  the  cells  in  the  cake  batter  and 
this  is  accomplished  in  two  ways.  First,  by  the  expansion  of  air  when  heated  jj 
during  baking.  The  cool  air  in  the  batter  is  enclosed  by  the  beating  of  the 
batter,  or  the  eggs.  The  expanding  of  the  enclosed  air  bubbles  puffs  up  and 
expands  the  batter:  the  heat  also  bakes  the  cake,  making  the  walls  of  the 
cells  rigid,  so  that  they  retain  the  structure  of  a  sponge. 

The  other  method  of  enlarging  the  cells  of  the  cake  batter  is  by  the  evolution      || 
of  carbon  dioxide,  a  harmless  gas  which  fills  the  cells  and  expands  when  heated 
during  the  baking  of  the  cake.     Carbon  dioxide  is  the  gas  in  the  bubbles  given 
off  by  baking  powder  when  it  is  wet  and  heated.     The  action  of  cream  of  tartar 
on  soda  also  gives  off  carbon  dioxide. 

This  lightness  of  a  cake  is  greatly  affected  by  the  kind  of  flour  used.  Flour 
not  made  expressly  for  use  in  cake  baking  is  rich  in  gluten,  an  excellent  quality 
for  bread,  but  detrimental  for  cake  baking.  Gluten  is  a  tough,  rubbery  substance 
that  makes  difficult  the  expansion  of  the  cake  batter,  because  the  heated  air, 
or  evolved  gas  bubbles,  are  not  active  enough  to  overcome  this  strong  rubbery 
gluten.  This  prevents  the  cake  having  a  fine  grained  texture,  that  is  fluffy  and  light. 

Flour  with  a  yellowish  or  grayish  color  does  not  give  that  beautiful  and 
creamy  white  color  that  goes  far  towards  making  a  cake  more  palatable.  Bread 
flours  have  this  fault. 

The  delicacy  of  taste  and  flavor  is  an  extremely  important  factor,  for  the 
dainty  quality  of  a  cake  must  not  be  dominated  by  the  use  of  a  strong  and 
coarse  flour. 

Swans  Down  Cake  Flour  is  a  special  preparation  of  those  elements  taken 
from  selected  wheat  that  go  to  make  a  flour  which  gives  the  best  of  results 
in  cake  and  pastry  baking. 

The  proportion  of  gluten  in  Swans  Down  Cake  Flour  is  small  and  it  is  of 
extremely  fine  and  tender  quality.  The  eggs  and  butter  and  sugar  used  in 
a  cake  more  than  make  up  for  the  low  gluten  content,  so  far  as  the  nutriment 
value  is  concerned. 

It  is  best  to  have  a  special  flour  for  cake  baking.  Swans  Down  Cake  Flour 
is  the  best  we  can  make  and  we  have  made  the  best  of  flour  for  over  a  half 
century. 


COPYRIGHTED    1914.        IGLEHEART   BROTHERS 


PEORIA  WOMEN'S  COOK  BOOK  89 

SUNSHINE  CAKE. 
1    cup  granulated  sugar,  Pinch  of  salt, 

Whites  of  7  eggs,  1  cup  cake  flour, 

Yolks  of  5  eggs,  14  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar. 

Sift  sugar  and  flour  each  5  times.  Beat  the  whites  of  eggs  partly  stiff 
and  add  cream  of  tartar.  Beat  them  until  stiff.  Add  sugar  slowly,  then 
the  beaten  yolks.  Beat  this  all  well  and  then  add  flour  and  flavoring.  Bake 
35  or  40  minutes  in  a  very  slow  oven.     Do  not  grease  pan. 

Mrs.  R.  A.  Hanna. 


KENTUCKY  SPONGE  CAKE  ROLL. 
4  eggs,  1    teacup  sugar, 

1    teacup  flour,  1    teaspoon  cream  tartar,  mixed  in 

Yl  teaspoon  soda,  mixed  in  little  .  flour, 

water, 

Bake  quickly  in  pan,  turn  out  on  wet  towel,  put  on  any  dressing  and 
roll  up.     Serve  with  cream  or  sauce. — Mrs.  Harry  C.  Shane. 


SPONGE  CAKE. 
One  cup  sugar,  4  eggs,  3  tablespoons  cold  water,  1  Yl  tablespoon 
corn  starch,  1  Yl  teaspoon  baking  powder.  Put  baking  powder  and  corn 
starch  in  cup,  fill  with  flour,  sift  3  times  together.  Take  sugar,  yolks  of 
eggs  and  cream  well.  Add  water  and  flour,  mixing  thoroughly.  Last  put 
in  whites  of  eggs  beaten  lightly.     Bake  in  slow  oven. — Mrs.  W.  B.  Elston. 


CREAM  SPONGE  CAKE. 
Two  eggs  beaten  together  in  a  tea  cup,  fill  it  with  thick  sweet  cream. 
1  cup  white  sugar,  1  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar,  Yl  teaspoon  soda,  1  cup  of 
flour.     Flavor  to  taste  and  bake  in  long  tin. — Lucie  W.  Armstrong. 


WHITE  CAKE. 

1  Yl  CUPS  sugar,  Yl  CUP  butter, 

1  cup  milk,  sweet,  2  cups  flour  sifted  twice  with, 

2  teaspoons   baking   powder,   whites  of   4   eggs   beaten,   and   added   last 
flavoring. — Mrs.  Frank  Caldwell. 


90  PEORIA  WOMEN'S  COOK  BOOK 

GOLD  CAKE. 

1    scant  cup  of  butter,  1    cup  milk, 

4  cups   flour,  3  teaspoons  baking  powder, 

1    teaspoon  vanilla,  2Yi  cups  flour, 

Yolks  of  8  eggs,  White  of   1    egg. 

Cream  sugar  and  butter,  then  add  1  cup  of  flour,  then  alternately  add 
1  Yl  CUPS  °f  fl°ur  an<^  Tcnlk.  Then  the  beaten  yolks,  last  half  cup  of  flour 
with  baking  powder,  and  last  fold  in  the  beaten  whites.  Bake  45  minutes 
in  a  moderate  oven. — Mrs.  P.  R.  McComas. 


CHOCOLATE  NUT  CAKE. 
1    cup  powdered  sugar,  2  eggs, 

1    teaspoon  vanilla,  24  CUP  pastry  flour. 

1    cup  English  walnuts, 

Melt  Yl  cup  butter  and  2  squares  chocolate  together  and  mix  with 
other  ingredients.  Bake  Yl  nour  m  shallow  pan.  While  warm  cut  in  squares 
with  a  sharp  knife. — Mrs.  C.  E.  Nixon. 


CHOCOLATE  CAKE. 

2  Yl  CUPS  sugar,  1    cup  butter, 

1    cup  sour  milk,  4  eggs, 

1    teaspoon  soda,  3  teaspoons  vanilla. 

One-third  box  of  cocoa. 

Melt  cocoa  by  adding  a  little  water,  over  the  fire.  2Yi  cups  flour. 
Mix  yolks  of  eggs,  butter  and  sugar,  beat  thoroughly.  Then  add  milk, 
flour  and  cocoa  and  last,  beaten  whites  of  eggs  and  vanilla.  Make  2  layers 
and  put  together  with  vanilla  icing.     Excellent. 

Mrs.  Wellington  Housworth. 


DEVIL'S  FOOD  CAKE. 

1  cup  of  sugar,  Yl  CUP  of  butter, 

2  eggs,  1    cup  of  milk, 

Yl   teaspoon  baking  soda,  Yl  CUP  of  grated  chocolate, 

2  cups  of  flour,  1    teaspoon  of  baking  powder. 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  beaten  yolks  of  eggs,  add  soda  dissolved 
in  milk,  melt  chocolate  with  hot  water,  add  flour  with  baking  powder,  beat 
well,  lastly  adding  whites  of  eggs  well  beaten. — Mrs.  John  Hausam. 


PEORIA  WOMEN'S  COOK  BOOK  91 

DEVIL'S  FOOD  CAKE. 
Three-fourths  cup  grated  chocolate,  yolk  1  egg,  Yl  cup  sweet  milk. 
Mix  these  together  and  set  in  basin  of  hot  water  to  boil.  Let  boil  but  not 
get  too  stiff.  When  cool  add  Yl  cup  sweet  milk,  1  cup  sugar,  1  flat  tea- 
spoon soda,  1  rounding  cup  flour,  and  a  teaspoon  vanilla.  Beat  and  bake 
slowly. 


ICING. 
One  cup  sugar,   J/4   cup  water.      Let  boil  until  it  threads  and  add 
white  of  egg,  beaten  stiff.     Beat  until  creamy.     A  little  vinegar  or  tartaric 
acid  keeps  it  from  hardening. — Mrs.  Chas.  Todhunter. 


DEVIL'S  FOOD  CAKE. 
Part  one:  Yl  CUP  sweet  milk,  yolk  of  one  egg,  2  squares  bitter  cho- 
colate. Cook  while  hot,  add  tablespoon  butter.  Part  two:  1  cup  sugar, 
Yl  cup  sour  milk,  teaspoonful  baking  soda  scant,  1  egg,  1  Yl  CUPS  flour, 
1  teaspoon  baking  powder,  add  dark  part  and  beat  well.  Filling: — 1  cup 
of  seeded  raisins,  chopped  line,  1  cup  water,  two-thirds  cup  sugar,  add  the 
yolk  of  1  egg,  beaten,  boil  until  thickens  and  flavor  with  lemon. 

Mrs.   Chas.   Gerber. 


BLACK  CHOCOLATE  CAKE. 
J    cup  of  sweet  milk,  1    cup  of  granulated  sugar, 

1    cup  of  grated  chocolate,  Yolk  of  two  eggs. 

Boil  together,  stirring  all  the  time  until  thick,  set  aside  to  cool.  Cream 
1  cup  of  butter,  1  cup  of  granulated  sugar,  yolks  of  two  eggs,  1  cup  of 
sweet  milk,  3  cups  flour,  beat  well,  add  beaten  whites  of  2  eggs,  I  teaspoon 
soda  dissolved  in  boiling  water,  flavor  with  vanilla  and  put  together  with 
white  icing. — Mrs.  W.  D.  Starnes. 


COCOA  CAKE. 
Yl  cup  of  butter,  1    cup  of  sugar, 

3  eggs,  Yl  cup  of  water, 

1  Yl  cups  of  flour,  Ya  cup  of  cocoa, 

3  teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  1    teaspoon  of  cinnamon. 

1    teaspoon  of  vanilla, 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  beat  eggs  separately,  add  to  butter  and  sugar, 
put  flour,  baking  powder,  cocoa  and  spice  through  sieve,  add  all  other  in- 
gredients, beat  to  a  smooth  paste. — Mrs.  Win.  Ashford. 


92  PEORIA  WOMEN'S  COOK  BOOK 


SPICE  CAKE. 

24  cup  butter, 

1    teaspoon  cloves, 

1    cup  sugar, 

Yl  teaspoon  allspice, 

2  eggs, 

Yl  teaspoon  nutmeg, 

I    cup  sour  milk, 

1    cup  dredged  rasins, 

1    teaspoon  soda, 

1  J/2  to  2  cups  flour. 

1    teaspoon  cinnamon, 

Bake  in  a  loaf.— 

-Mrs. 

J. 

S. 

Miller. 

SPICE  CAKE. 
Two  cups  of  brown  sugar  and  Yl  CUP  of  butter  creamed,  1  cup  of 
sour  milk  and  Yl  teaspoon  of  soda,  yolks  of  2  eggs  and  white  of  one  egg, 
1  teaspoon  of  cinnamon,  1  teaspoon  of  cloves,  Yl  teaspoon  of  grated  nut- 
meg, 2  and  two-thirds  cups  flour,  Yl  teaspoon  of  baking  powder.  Use 
extra  white  for  frosting. — Mrs.  Vallie  Hall. 


APPLE  SAUCE  CAKE. 
Make  2  cups  of  apple  sauce,  mix  1  Yl  CUPS  of  sugar  with  1  cup 
shortening  (one-half  butter  and  one-half  lard).  Pour  into  this  mixture  the 
hot  apple  sauce,  add  3  Yl  level  teaspoons  soda,  and  stir  thoroughly.  3 
cups  of  flour,  sifted,  1  teaspoon  of  mapeline,  1  teaspoon  cinnamon,  pinch  of 
salt,  mix  thoroughly  then  add  1  cup  of  raisins  and  currants  that  have  been 
sprinkled  with  flour.     Bake  from  P/4  to  1  Yl  hours  in  a  slow  oven. 

Mrs.  Harriet  Houston. 


APPLE  SAUCE  CAKE. 

2  cups  brown  sugar,  3  teaspoons  soda  in  hot  apple  sauce. 

Two-thirds  cup  butter,  1    teaspoon  cloves, 

1  cup  raisins,  1    teaspoon  ginger,  cinnamon,    « 
4   cups  flour,  allspice. 

2  Yl  CUPS  apple  sauce, 

Bake  in  moderate  oven  30  minutes. — Mrs.  J.  R.  Schnebly. 


BLACKBERRY  JAM  CAKE. 
1    cup  of  brown  sugar,  1    cup  of  blackberry  jam, 

3  eggs,  1    teaspoon  each  of  cinnamon  and 

1    cup  sour  cream,  clove, 

24  cup  of  butter,  2  Yl  CUPS  of  flour. 

Mrs.  J.  R.  Pfander. 


PEORIA  WOMEN'S  COOK  BOOK  93 

JAM  CAKE. 

1    cup  sugar,  2   cups  flour, 

Ya,  cup  butter,  creamed,  1    teaspoon  soda, 

1    cup  jam,  Yl   teaspoon  cloves, 

3  eggs  well  beaten,  Yl   teaspoon  cinnamon, 

24  cup  sour  milk,  Yl   teaspoon  nutmeg. 

Bake  in  layers  and  ice  with  boiled  icing.  Icing: — 1  cup  sugar,  Ya 
cup  hot  water,  boil  together  until  mixture  threads  and  pour  into  the  beaten 
whites  of  an  egg;  add  one-half  teaspoon  vanilla. — Mrs.  C.  T.  Law. 


CUP  CAKES. 
1    cup  of  sugar,  1    cup  of  butter   (cream), 

1  cup  of  milk,  2  eggs, 

2  cups  of  flour,  1    teaspoon  of  vanilla  or  lemon 
2   teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  essence. 

Put  into  moderate  oven  and  add  heat  as  they  rise.     Use  muffin  tins, 
serve  hot  or  cold. — Mrs.  L.  C.  Hinckle. 


CUP  CAKES. 
Two-thirds  cup  butter,  3j/4  cups  flour, 

2   cups  sugar,  4   teaspoons  baking  powder, 

4  eggs,  '/4  teaspoon  mace. 

1    cup   milk, 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  add  eggs  well  beaten.     Mix  and  sift  dry 
ingredients,  add  to  sugar,  eggs  and  butter,  flour  and  milk  alternately. 

Mrs.  S.  J.  Creviston. 


PRUNE  CAKE. 

1    cup  sugar,  1    cup  well  cooked  unseasoned 

1  cup  sour  or  butter  milk,  prunes, 

2  teaspoons  soda,  1    whole  egg  or  a  yolk  of  1 , 
1    teaspoon  cloves,  1    teaspoon   cinnamon, 

A  little  nutmeg,  2  cups  of  flour. 
Yl  CUP  butter, 

Bake  in  two  layers  or  a  loaf.  Use  either  white  or  chocolate  icing. 
Bake  slowly. — Mrs.  Jno.  Dailey. 


JOHNP.WICHMANN 

COLE  BROS. 

Dairyman 

ALT  A  ROAD  R.    R.   NO.   3 
PHONE  BLUFFS  265  R.  2 

Florists 

Bo*  Phones  589 

431  Main  St 

DOOLEY  BROS. 

FOR  COAL 
THATS  ALL 

PHONES  674 

ANTON  RETTBURO 

PHARMACIST 

PHONES 
Old,  Main  1716      New,  M  3370 

801   First  Ave. 

Res.  Phone  Bluffs  1895 

DR.  C.  N.  NEWLIN 
DENTIST 

Office  Phone  Main  472 
511  Jefferton  Bldg. 

WINZELER 
UNDERTAKING  CO. 

PEORIA 

Kuril's 
Flower  Shop 

PHONES  517 
511  MAIN  STREET 

Sengenberger  &  Co. 

LEADING 
GROCERS 

PHONE    MAIN    3351 

318-325  Fulton  Street 

PEORIA  WOMEN'S  COOK  BOOK  95 

DATE  LOAF. 

1  Yl  lbs.  dates,  Yl  lb.  English  walnuts, 

4   whites  eggs,  2   cups  sugar. 

4  tablespoons  cracker  crumbs,  Yl  B*.  candied  peaches  or  pineapple. 

One  tablespoon  vanilla,  a  little  lemon  and  almond  extract.  Bake 
slowly  in  a  greased  pan  with  oiled  paper  1  Yl  hours,  or  steam  for  three 
hours. — Mrs.  Jno.  Dailey,  Jr. 


DATE  CAKE. 
3  eggs,  One-third  cup  flour, 

1    cup  sugar,  1    teaspoon  of  baking  powder, 

I    cup  chopped  dates,  Pinch  of  salt. 

1    cup  chopped  English  walnuts, 

Bake  in  slow  oven  twenty  or  thirty  minutes.     Can  be  cut  into  squares 
and  served  with  cream. — Mrs.  Wm.  Heyl. 


SCRIPTURE  CAKE. 

One  cup  butter Judges  5 :25 

Three  and  one-half  cups  flour I  King,  4 :22 

Two  cups  sugar    Jeremiah,  6:20 

Two  cups  raisins    I  Samuel,   30 : 1 2 

Two  cups  figs I  Samuel,  30 : 1 2 

One  cup  water Genesis,  24 : 1  7 

One  cup  almonds Genesis,  43 :1  1 

Six  eggs Isaiah,  10:14 

Little  salt Leviticus,  2:13 

One  large  tablespoon  honey Exodus,   16:31 

Sweet  spices  to  taste I  King,  1  0 :2 

Follow  Solomon's  advice  for  making  good  boys  (Proverbs  3:14)  and 
you  will  have  a  good  cake. — Mrs.  Milton  L.  Ducker. 


NUT  CAKE. 
Yl   cup  butter,  Cup  sweet  milk, 

Yl   cup  sugar,  1    teaspoon   flavoring, 

2   cups  flour,  Whites  of  4  eggs, 

2   teaspoons  baking  powder,  1    cup  chopped  nuts. 

Mix  in  order  given,  bake  and  when  cool,  ice  and  decorate  with  nuts 
broken  in  halves.  Icing: — Beat  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  until  very  light, 
whip  in  a  pound  or  more  of  powdered  sugar,  add  the  juice  of  one  lemon; 
beat  ten  minutes  more  and  spread  on  cake. — Mrs.  W.  B.  Burt. 


96  PEORIA  WOMEN'S  COOK  BOOK 

DATE  AND  NUT  CAKE. 
(Very  inexpensive  and  good.) 
Two  eggs,  24  CUP  °f  sugar«  beaten  together,  1  cup  of  dates,  1  cup 
of  nuts  cut  in  small  pieces.  To  the  beaten  eggs  and  sugar,  add  1  heaping 
tablespoon  of  flour,  sifted  with  1  teaspoon  of  baking  powder,  beat  in 
thoroughly,  then  add  dates  and  nuts,  spread  out  very  thin  in  buttered  and 
floured  tins.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  about  20  or  25  minutes,  test 
with  straw,  serve  with  whipped  cream.     This  recipe  should  serve  9  people. 

Mrs.  Blanche  Ottenheimer. 


NUT  LOAF  CAKE. 
Yl  cup  butter,  1  Yl  teaspoons  baking  powder, 

1  Yi  cups  sugar,  Yl  CUP  milk, 

3  eggs,  1   cup  nuts. 

2Yi  cups  flour, 

Rub  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  light  cream.  Add  the  eggs,  which 
have  been  beaten,  then  the  flour,  sifted  with  the  baking  powder.  Add  the 
milk  and  nuts,  making  a  rather  firm  batter.  Bake  in  a  paper  lined  cake 
pan  in  a  steady  oven  thirty-five  minutes. — Mrs.  W.  C.  Tibbetts. 


BURNT  LEATHER  CAKE. 
1  Yl  cups  sugar,  Yl  cup  butter, 

4  eggs,  beaten  separately,  2 '/2  cups  flour, 

1    cup  cold  water,  1    teaspoonful  vanilla. 

1    teaspoonful  baking  powder, 

Take  one  cup  of  sugar  and  heat  in  porcelain  pan,  brown  and  stir 
until  intense  smoke  arises.  Pour  Yl  cup  boiling  water  into  the  mixture  and 
boil  one  minute.  Add  three  tablespoonsful  of  this  mixture  to  the  cake  and 
one  to  the  icing.  Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  beaten  eggs,  (saving  out 
whites  of  2  for  frosting).  Beat  thoroughly.  Add  2  cups  flour,  part  of 
water  and  beat  until  smooth.  Add  remaining  flour  with  baking  powder  in 
it,  then  burnt  mixture  and  vanilla.  Beat  and  bake.  Will  make  two  large 
layers. — Mrs.  W.  B.  Dimmick. 


BLITZ  KUCHEN. 
%  cup  of  sugar,  Yl  cup  of  butter, 

1    cup  of  sweet  milk,  2   cups  of  flour, 

3  eggs  beaten  in  1  at  a  time,  3  level  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Bake  in  a  shallow  pan,  sprinkle  powdered  sugar,  cinnamon  and  a  few 
chopped  nuts  on  top. — Mrs.  J.  F.  Faber. 


PEORIA  WOMEN'S  COOK  BOOK  97 

JELLY  ROLL. 
1    cup  of  sugar,  I    cup  of  flour, 

3  eggs,  I    teaspoon  of  baking  powder. 

Stir  well  and  spread  thin  on  baking  tin,  bake  quickly  and  turn  out  on 
cloth,  spread  well  with  jelly  and  roll. — Mrs.  W.  D.  Starnes. 


ALMOND  TORTE  CAKE. 
6  eggs,  beaten  separately,  1    lb.  ground  almonds, 

Yl  lb.  granulated  sugar,  Few  drops  lemon  extract. 

5   tablespoons  cracker  crumbs, 

Grind  almonds  and  cracker  crumbs  in  food  chopper.  Beat  eggs  Yl 
hour,  add  Yl  teaspoonful  of  cream  of  tartar  to  beaten  whites  of  eggs.  Add 
to  beaten  yolks  of  eggs  the  sugar  gradually,  then  the  ground  almonds,  then 
cracker  crumbs  and  lastly  the  whites  of  eggs  folded  in. — Grace  Straesser. 


AN  OLD  GERMAN  ALMOND  CAKE. 
1    lb.  butter  rubbed  to  a  cream,  Rind  and  little  juice  of  lemon, 

1  lb.  sifted  sugar,  1    lb.  flour, 

3  whole  eggs,  1    scant  teaspoon  powdered  carda- 

5   yolks  of  eggs,  mon, 

Ya  lb-  almonds,  grated,  1    teaspoon  cinnamon, 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  Whites  5  eggs,  beaten  stiff. 

Sift  flour  and  baking  powder  together  and  mix  in  order  given.  Baka 
in  two  deep  pans.  Put  together  with  any  preferred  filling,  or  a  plain  frost- 
ing.— Mrs.  Arthur  Traeger. 


STRAWBERRY  CARAMEL  CAKE. 
Yl  cup  brown  sugar,  24  cup  butter, 

Yl  cup  preserved  strawberries,  3  eggs, 

Yl  cup  milk,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Enough  flour  to  give  usual  cake  thickness.  Cream  butter  and  sugar 
together,  then  add  yolks  of  eggs,  strawberries  and  vanilla.  Stir  well,  add 
milk  and  the  whites  of  eggs  beaten  stiff,  the  flour  and  baking  powder,  beat 
5  minutes.  Bake.  Filling:  Boil  2Yl  cups  brown  sugar,  butter  size  of  an 
egg.  Vl  cup  water,  for  3  minutes,  then  add  Yl  cup  cream,  Yl  teaspoon 
vanilla,  stir  well.  Boil  slowly  until  it  forms  a  soft  ball,  when  dropped  into 
cold  water.  Pour  slowly  into  a  vessel  and  beat  until  thick.  If  it  fails  to 
thicken  boil  a  little  longer  or  if  too  hard  add  a  little  more  cream. 
-  Mrs.  J.  H.  Primm,  Chicago,  III. 


98  PEORIA  WOMEN'S  COOK  BOOK 

SOUR  MILK  CAKE. 

1  Yl  CUPS  sugar,  Yl  CUP  butter  or  drippings, 

3  eggs,  I   cup  sour  milk, 

Yl  scant  teaspoon  soda,  2 J/2  cups  flour   (with   1   teaspoon 

Grated  rind  of  1   lemon,  baking  powder). 

Cream  butter  and  sugar  and  beat  eggs  separately,  then  mix  sour  milk 
with  soda,  sift  flour  with  baking  powder  3  times,  then  stir  batter  briskly,  put 
in  slow  oven  at  first,  for  1  5  or  20  minutes,  then  increase  heat  until  brown. 

Mrs.  John  Kelly. 


FRUIT  CAKE. 
This  cake  weighs  over  1  6  pounds  and  when  baked  in  one  cake  will 
half  fill  a  medium  sized  dish  pan,  which  has  been  fitted  with  a  large  baking 
powder  can  inverted,  for  a  stem.  Grease  the  pan  heavily,  fit  with  paper 
which  has  also  been  well  greased  and  floured.  This  will  keep  cake  from 
forming  hard  crust  or  burning.  Never  bake  fruit  in  granite  as  it  makes  the 
crust  too  hard.  If  baked  in  several  pans,  steam  cakes  two  hours,  place 
in  hot  oven  and  bake  very  slowly  until  done. 

INGREDIENTS. 
One  lb.  butter,  2  lbs.  brown  sugar,  6  eggs,  1  pt.  New  Orleans  mo- 
lasses, 10  cups  flour.  Into  8  cups  of  the  flour  put  the  following  all  cut 
coarsely,  1  teaspoon  cloves,  2  teaspoon  cinnamon,  1  teaspoon  soda,  (put 
into  molasses)  3  teaspoons  baking  powder,  2  lbs.  raisins,  2  lbs.  currants, 
Yl  lb.  citron,  Yl  lb.  almonds  (blanched  and  split  lengthwise)  1  lb.  figs, 
Ya  lb-  candied  lemon  peel,  Ya  lb.  candied  orange  peel,  Yl  lb.  candied 
cherries,  Yl  lb.  candied  pineapple,  1  lb.  dates,  1  lb.  English  walnuts,  1  cup 
pecan  meats,  1  wine  glass  water.  Bake  5  hours  very  slowly.  Keep  pan 
of  water  in  oven  all  the  while. — Mrs.  F.  H.  Putnam. 


FRUIT  CAKE. 
1    lb.  of  fine  granulated  sugar,  2  lbs.  seeded  raisins, 

1    lb.  of  eggs,   1 0  large  ones,  Yl  07-  mace, 

1    lb.  of  English  currants,  1  0  cts.  citron,  chopped  fine, 

1    nutmeg,  1    teaspoon  each  of  cinnamon,  all- 

1    cup  of  sorghum  molasses,  spice  and  cream  of  tartar. 

1    lb.  of  butter, 

One-half  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  a  little  water.  Enough  flour  to 
make  dough  a  little  stiffer  than  common  cake,  before  adding  fruit.  Bake 
slowly  two  hours,  or  until  it  doesn't  stick  to  a  straw.  This  makes  two 
cakes. — Emeline  Bacon. 


PEORIA  WOMEN'S  COOK  BOOK  99 

LEMON  CAKE. 

2  cups  sugar,  2   teaspoons  baking  powder, 

3  cups  sifted  flour,  1     cup  milk, 
Yl  cup  butter,                                           White  4  eggs. 

Mix  ingredients  as  in  all  cakes.     Icing:     Whites  of  two  eggs,  2  cups 
powdered  sugar,  juice  of  two  lemons. — Sarah  E.  McFall. 


ORANGE  CAKE. 
Two  cups  sugar,  Yl  cup  butter,  juice  of  one  large  orange  and  enough 
water  to  make  a  cupful,  2  eggs,   3  egg  yolks,   3  cups  flour,  2  teaspoons 
baking  powder.     Grate  the  rind  of  the  orange  into  boiled  icing. 

Mrs.  W.  B.  Elston. 


1-2-3-4  CAKE. 

1  cup  butter,  1    heaping  teaspoon  baking  powder, 

2  cups  sugar,  24  CUP  milk, 

3  cups  flour,  Vanilla. 

4  eggs, 

Mrs.  John  Bossard,  Peru,  Ind. 


EGGLESS,  BUTTERLESS,  FRUITLESS  CAKE. 
1    cup  brown  sugar,  Yl  CUP  lar<^  or  drippings, 

I  Yl  CUP  seeded  raisins,  1    cup  water, 

Yl  cup  nut  meats,  Ya  nutmeg, 

1    teaspoon  cloves,  also  cinnamon,  Little  salt. 

Put  all  this  in  sauce  pan  and  boil  3  minutes,  stir  in  1  teaspoon  soda 
dissolved  in  a  little  warm  water  and  stir  in  while  warm  2  cups  of  flour  and 
1  teaspoon  baking  powder.     Bake  1  hour  in  moderate  oven. 

Lucie  W.  Armstrong. 


MACAROON  CAKE. 
3   eggs,  1    cup  sugar, 

2   tablespoons  butter,  1    cup  flour, 

1    teaspoon  cream  tartar,  .  Yl  teaspoon  soda. 

Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  yolks  of  eggs,  sift  cream  of  tartar  and 
soda  in  flour  and  add  whites  of  eggs  well  beaten.  Bake  in  two  layers. 
Custard  Filling.  Beat  1  egg  in  Yl  CUP  m'lk,  add  1  tablespoon  flour  stirred 
in  Yl  cup  sugar  and  add  to  milk.     Cook  in  double  boiler  till  thick.     Flavor. 

Miss  Blanche  Gealey,  Chicago,  111. 


100  PEORIA  WOMEN'S  COOK  BOOK 

SPANISH  BUN  CAKE. 
2  cups  sugar,  1    cup  raisins  (chopped), 

Two-thirds  cup  butter,  4  eggs, 

1  cup  sour  milk,  2  teaspoons  cinnamon, 

1  Yl  teaspoon  baking  powder,  J/2  teaspoon  cloves, 

J/2  teaspoon  soda,  2  cups  of  flour. 

Mrs.  A.  M.  Bishop. 


SURPRISE  CAKE. 
1    cup  of  sugar,  J/2  cup  of  butter, 

1    egg,  1    cup  of  sweet  milk, 

1    teaspoon  of  soda,  1    teaspoon  of  cream  of  tartar. 

Flavor  with  lemon,  enough  flour  to  make  right. — Mrs.  Vallie  Hall. 


GROOMS  CAKE. 
J/2  cup  butter  creamed  with  1  cup  nuts, 

1   cup  of  granulated  sugar,  Yl  CUP  candied  pineapple  cut  fine, 

%  cup  of  milk,  2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder, 

1  24  CUPS  of  flour,  2  teaspoons  of  flavoring, 

J/2  cup  candied  cherries  cut  in  half,      Whites  of  5  eggs  beaten  stiff. 
Dredge  fruit  with  flour,  bake  in  loaf. — Sue  Roberts,  California. 


CHESS  CAKE. 
Yl  lb.  butter,  6  eggs, 

J/2  lb.  sugar,  2  tablespoons  water. 

Grated  rind  and  juice  of  three  lemons.  Beat  eggs  well,  then  add 
sugar.  Melt  butter  and  let  stand  until  settled,  then  add  the  clear  part  to 
the  eggs  and  sugar.  Lastly  add  the  lemon  juice,  rind,  and  water.  Cook  in 
double  boiler,  stirring  constantly  until  the  mixture  has  the  consistency  of 
jelly.     Remove  from  fire  and  when  cold  it  is  ready  to  serve. 

Mrs.  Merrill  I.  Schnebly. 


SNOW  CAKE.     (Loaf.) 
1    cup  sugar,  J/2  cup  butter, 

Yi  cup  sweet  milk,  4  eggs,  whites, 

1  Yl  CUPS  flour,  1    teaspoon  baking  powder. 

Mrs.  J.  O.  Leighty. 


PEORIA  WOMEN'S  COOK  BOOK  101 

LAYER  CAKE. 

1  cup  sugar,  1   teaspoon  vanilla, 
Yl  CUP  sweet  milk,                                     3  eggs  beaten, 

Yl  cup  butter,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder   (heap- 

2  cups  flour,  ing 

Mrs.  Will  Nash. 


CRUMB  CAKE. 

1  Yl  CUPS  sugar,  Yl   CUP  shortening, 

2  cups  flour,  1   teaspoon  cinnamon, 
Yl  teaspoon  salt,                                        Little  nutmeg, 

Take  out  Ya  cuP  oi  above  mixture  and  sprinkle  on  top  of  cake  when 
ready  for  oven.  Add  to  mixture:  1  egg,  1  level  teaspoon  soda,  1  cup  sour 
milk. — E.  Virginia  Snider. 


LADY  BALTIMORE  CAKE. 

1  cup  butter,  2  level  teaspoons  baking  powder, 

2  cups  sugar,  I    teaspoon  rose  water, 

3  J/2  cups  flour,  1    cup  sweet  milk. 
Whites  of  6  eggs, 

FILLING  AND  ICING. 
Three  cups  of  granulated  sugar,  1  cup  of  boiling  water,  cook  until  it 
threads,  then  pour  over  the  beaten  whites  of  three  eggs  and  add   1    cup 
chopped  raisins,   1   cup  chopped  pecans  and  5  figs  cut  in  strips.     Ice  both 
top  and  sides. — Mrs.   Otto  Hervig. 


INDEPENDENCE  CAKE. 
Five  eggs,  3  cups  brown  sugar,  2  cups  butter,  1  cup  milk,  5  cups  flour, 
grated  nutmeg,  1  teaspoon  soda,  1  cup  raisins  (cover  well  with  flour.) 

Misses  S.  and  E.  Benton. 


APRICOT  CAKE. 

J/2  cup  of  butter, 

1    teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  Yl  CUP 

3   eggs, 

sour  milk, 

2  cups  flour, 

1    cup  raisins, 

1    cup  stewed  apricots, 

1    teaspoon  each  of  cinnamon, 

1    cup  sugar, 

cloves,  and  allspice. 

Miss  Bert  Miller. 

102  PEORIA  WOMEN'S  COOK  BOOK 

SPANISH  CAKE. 

Yl  cup  butter,  1  24  CUPS  flour, 

1    cup  sugar,  3    teaspoonsful   baking   powder, 

Yolks  of  2  eggs,  1    teaspoonful   cinnamon, 

Yl  cup  milk,  Whites  of  2  eggs. 

Mix  ingredients  in  order  given.  Bake  in  shallow  tins  and  spread 
between  and  on  top  caramel  frosting. 

CARAMEL  FROSTING. 

1  Yl  CUPS  brown  sugar,  24  cup  thin  cream,  Yl  tablespoon  butter.  Boil 
ingredients  together  in  a  smooth  granite  saucepan  until  a  ball  can  be  formed 
when  mixture  is  tried  in  cold  water.  Beat  until  of  right  consistency  to 
spread. — Mrs.  Merrill  Schnebly. 


FAVORITE  SNOW  CAKE. 
Beat  1  cup  of  butter  to  a  cream,  add  1  Yl  CUPS  flour  and  stir  very 
thoroughly  together.  Then  add  one  cup  of  corn  starch  and  one  cup  of 
sweet  milk  in  which  3  teaspoons  of  baking  powder  has  been  dissolved. 
Last  add  whites  of  eight  eggs  and  two  cups  of  sugar  well  beaten  together. 
Flavor  to  taste  and  bake  in  layers,  put  together  with  icing. 

Mrs.  David  Cowan. 


POTATO  CAKE. 
Two  cups  sugar,  1  cup  butter,  Yl  CUP  sweet  milk,  Yl  CUP  melted 
chocolate,  1  cup  mashed  potatoes,  seasoned  as  for  the  table,  1  cup  chopped 
English  walnuts,  4  eggs,  beaten,  2  heaping  cups  flour  sifted  with  2  heaping 
teaspoons  baking  powder,  1  teaspoon  each  of  nutmeg,  allspice,  cloves,  cin- 
namon, vanilla  and  lemon  extract.     Bake  in  two  layers. 

Mrs.  C.  W.  Johnson. 


ICINGS 


MARSHMALLOW  ICING. 
2  cups  sugar,  Whites  of  2  eggs, 

1    level  teaspoon  vinegar,  '/^  lb.  marshmallows. 

1    cup  water, 

Boil  sugar  with  vinegar  and  water  until  it  hairs  when  run  off  the  end 
of  fork.  Stir  in  beaten  egg  whites  and  marshmallows,  which  have  been 
quartered. — Mrs.  Walter  Mizer. 


UNCOOKED  CHOCOLATE  ICING. 
1    cup  of  powdered  sugar,  2  teaspoons  of  cocoa, 

1    tablespoon  butter,  2   tablespoons  strong  coffee, 

I    teaspoon  vanilla,  Mix  sugar  and  butter, 

Mrs.  J.  L.  Brawford. 


POWDERED  SUGAR  ICING. 
Two  cups  of  powdered  sugar,    1    tablespoon  of  butter.     Thin  with 
cream  to  spread,  flavor. — Mrs.  H.  W.  Kelly. 


CHOCOLATE  FROSTING. 
One-third  cup  of  cream,  1  Yl  squares  bitter  chocolate, 

1    egg,  Yl  teaspoon  of  butter, 

Yl  teaspoon  of  vanilla,  Confectioner's  sugar. 

Put  the  chocolate  in  a  bowl  to  melt  over  hot  water,  scald  the  cream 
and  pour  over  it,  add  the  beaten  yolk  of  egg  and  butter,  beat,  sift  in  enough 
confectioner's  sugar  to  make  it  of  the  proper  consistency,  then  add  well 
beaten  white,  then  add  vanilla. — Mrs.  Joseph  Ogle. 


Those  Groceries   from 
Ward's  Were  so  Good! 


This  is  what  thousands  of  women  are  saying  every  day.  Are  you  one  of  themt  If 
you  ever  bought  groceries  from  us  you  know  how  nice  and  fresh  they  were.  And  such 
a  good  grade.  Better  than  you  expected,  weren't  theyf  And  when  you  stopped  to 
figure  up  the  cost — didn't  it  surprise  you  when  you  found  what  a  big  saving  you 
had  madef 

Our  grocery  list  is  full  of  these  pleasant  surprises.  Do  you  receive  a  copy  regu- 
larly? If  not  send  us  your  name  and  address  and  we  will  see  to  it  that  you  get  a 
copy  of  this  money  saving  book  regularly  every  two  months. 

Ask  for  Our  Latest  Grocery  List  83  G. 


Index  Brand  Cocoa 

e  so  many  appetizing,  tasteful 
sing  cocoa  that  It  should  be 
In   stock"    on    your    pantry 

Purity  is  a  first  consideration,  and  It  Is 
folly  to  buy  any  but  the  best,  especially 
when  a  high  quality  cocoa  like  our 
"Index  Brand"  is  sold  at  such  "economy" 


In  this  cook  book,  showing 

ways  of  using  It   In    miking  tempting 

tweets,  Inviting  sherbets,  frosilngs.  etc* 


Pure  Spices 

Takes  Only  a  Little,  But— Oh  Myt 

It  don't  take  a  lot,  but  It  certainly  does 
a  lot.  A  little  goes  a  Ions  way,  especially 
If  spices  are  pure  and  come  to  you  with 
all  their  original  strength  and  flavor. 
Good  cooks  take  supreme  delight  In 
putting  In  the  spice— It's  the  one  last 
touch  that  puts  the  "edge"  on  the 
meal.  Here's  a  suggestion  worth 
while— try  some  of  the  new  spices 
that  haven't  been  In  your  pantry 
before.  The  changed  flavor  you  «j 
can  give  to  some  of  the  everyday  ■ 
dishes  will  surprise  you. 


S.  Good  Tea  and  Coffee 

It  isn't  an  easy  matter  to  secure  the 
right  teas  or  coffees  to  make  a  good  cup 
for   the  table.     Therefore  we  employ  a 
tea  and  coffee  expert  who  does  nothing 
but  superintend  the  selecting,  blending, 
roasting  and  tasting  of  these  goods. 
That  he  knows   his  business   thor- 
oughly is  proven  by  the  ever  growing 
popularity  of  our  different  brands  of 
teas  and  coffees. 


Sunset  Brand  Hour 

We  sold  three  times  as  much  flour  during 
January  and  February  of  this  year  as  we  did 
during  the  whole  year  of  1914.     Low   price  ( 
alone  would  not  have  caused  such  won- 
derful sales.  You  know  that  you  wouldn't 
buy  another  sack  of  flour 
that  didn't  give  good  re- 
sults no  matter  now  low 
the   price.       Nothing   Is 
quite  so  satisfying  as  to 
turn  out  a  batch  of  white, 
light   bread.       Sunset 
Brand  flour  will  do  it. 


Our  Own  Pure  Food 
Kitchen 

The  wonder  spot  of  our  big  pure 

food   store  Is   the  wide,   spotlessly 

sanitary  kitchen   in    which 

■«  so  ma.iy  of  our  food  product*, 
high  standard  for.everyt.hl 


It  doesn't  pass  < 


i  that  standard 


why    continue 


With 

..  lp- 
kltcbena  fur 
these      foods. 


all    the   scientific    equlp- 


iummmmiiHiuwiinimii 


much  of  it  yourself  f 


Dried  Fruits 

Whether  In  mid-season,  whether  early 
or  late,  you  will  find  evaporated  fruits  a 
mlRhty  good  thing  to  eat.    Really_ fresh 
fruits  are  good  and  have  a  place  in  the 
diet,  but  dried  fruits  should  be  eaten 
freely,  especially  in  the  Spring  of  the 
year.    As  a  sauce  they  are  unexcelled, 
while  for  pies  there  is  nothing  better. 
It  Isn't  always  our  luck  to  he  able  to 
get  such  unusually  fine  crops'as  last  . 
year's.      The  big  California  prunes  j 
are  especially  fine. 


Montgomery  Ward  &  Co. 

NEW  YORK  CHICAGO  KANSAS  CRY  FORT  WORTH  PORTLAND 

Chicago  Avenue  Bridge,  Chicago 


COOKIES,  DOUGHNUTS,  ETC. 

"O  weary  Mothers  mixing  dough, 
Don't  you  wish  that  food  ivould  grow? 
Your  lips  would  smile,  I  know,  to  see 
A  cookie  bush  or  doughnut  tree." 


FILLED  COOKIES. 
Yl  cup  butter,  Raisin  Filling. 

1    cup  sugar,  1    cup  chopped  raisins, 

1    egg,  Yi  cup  sugar, 

Yl   cup  sweet  milk,  Yl  cup  water, 

3  J/2  cups  flour,  1    tablespoon  flour, 

1  teaspoon  soda,  Cook  till  thick. 

2  teaspoons  cream  of  tartar. 

Cut  out  cookies,  put  spoonful  filling  on  top,  then  another  cookie  on 
that  and  bake.     Can  use  smaller  cookie  cutter  on  top. — Mrs.  R.  P.  Booth. 


OAT  MEAL  COOKIES. 
3   cups  rolled  oats,  1    salt  spoonful  salt, 

Yl   cup  lard,  2  cups  flour, 

1    teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  Yl  Yl  cup  butter, 

cup  boiling  water, 

Mix  together  and  add  Yl   lb-  raisins,  figs  or  dates.     Sprinkle  with 
sugar  when  ready  to  bake. — Mrs.  C.  W.  Colby. 


HERMITS. 
3  eggs,  1    teaspoon  cinnamon, 

1  Yl  cups  sugar,  Yl   teaspoon  nutmeg, 

1    cup  butter,  1    teaspoon  soda, 

1    cup  chopped  raisins,  Yl  cup  sour  cream,  or  sour  milk  can 

1    cup  currants,  be  used. 

1    cup  chopped  nuts, 

Enough  flour  to  make  as  stiff  as  cake,   (3'/4  cups).    Drop  spoonful 
into  a  greased  pan.     Bake  in  a  quick  oven. — Mrs.  A.  M.  Bishop. 


106  PEORIA  WOMEN'S  COOK  BOOK 

OAT  MEAL  COOKIES. 
1    cup  granulated  sugar,  2   cups  sifted  flour, 

%  cup  butter  creamed  together,  Yl  teaspoon  cinnamon. 

Mix  2'/2  cups  oatmeal, 

Put  in  sugar  and  butter,  then  add  small  teaspoon  soda  in  Yl  CUP  oi 
sour  cream  or  milk,  2  eggs  well  beaten,  1  cup  chopped  raisins,  drop  from  a 
spoon  on  pans  quite  a  distance  apart. — Mrs.  Homer  Blair. 


OAT   MEAL  MACAROONS. 

1  tablespoon  of  butter,  1    cup  of  sugar, 

2  well  beaten  eggs,  2   cups  rolled  oats, 
2   level  teaspoons  baking  powder,  Yl  teaspoon  salt. 

1    teaspoon  vanilla, 

Drop  on  greased  pan.     Bake  in  slow  oven. — Mrs.  Kate  Wex. 


ROCKS. 
I  Yl   CUPS  granulated  sugar,  1    cup  butter, 

3  eggs,  21/2   cups  flour, 

1   teaspoon  soda,  24    lb-    dates, 

1  Yl  lbs.  English  walnuts,  1    teaspoon  cinnamon. 

A  little  nutmeg,  cloves  and  allspice, 


Mrs.  Eva  W.  Prochazka. 


ROCKS. 
Cream   Ya   cuP  melted  butter  and    1    cup  sugar.      Beat  2  eggs  very 
light  and  beat  into  creamed  mixture  with  egg  beater.     Yl  CUP  flour,  24  cup 
nut   meats,    1    teaspoon  vanilla,    2   squares   melted   chocolate.      Bake   very 
slowly  35  to  45  minutes  in  1    layer  tins. — Mrs.  F.  H.  Putnam. 


GINGER  SNAPS. 
1    cup  butter  and  lard,  1    cup  brown  sugar, 

6   tablespoons  vinegar,  1    cup  New  Orleans  molasses, 

1    tablespoon  ginger,  1    teaspoon  salt, 

Flour  to  roll,  ,  1    tablespoon  soda, 

Mrs.  W.  B.  Ebaugh. 


PEORIA  WOMEN'S  COOK  BOOK  107 

FRUIT  COOKIES. 

2  cups  sugar,  1    cup  butter, 
1    cup  sour  milk,                                     2  eggs, 

3  J/2  cups  flour,  I    teaspoon  soda, 

1    cup  raisins,  Yl  teaspoon  baking  powder, 

Nutmeg,  1    pinch  salt, 

Drop  in  pan,  one  teaspoon  to  the  drop. — Mrs.  Thos.  A.  Greer. 


SHAUM  TART. 

Beat  the  whites  of  three  eggs  until  very  dry  and  stiff,  add  one  teaspoon 
vinegar,  one  teaspoon  vanilla,  and  one  scant  cup  sugar,  beat  again  until 
very  dry  and  drop  into  buttered  gem  pans;  bake  until  quite  crisp;  serve 
with  grated  pineapple,  whipped  cream,  chopped  nuts,  and  a  candied  cher- 
ry.— Mrs.  C.  R.  Brewer. 


PRUNE  TARTLETS. 
Line  small  tin  with  pastry  and  in  each  place  a  tablespoon  of  prune 
pulp,  prepared  by  rubbing  cooked  prunes  with  their  juice  through  a  sieve, 
add  two  tablespoons  of  fine  bread  crumbs  to  each  cup  of  fruit.  Cover 
with  the  following  mixture :  2  tablespoons  butter,  2  tablespoons"  sugar, 
beaten  to  a  cream,  2  eggs,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder,  two-thirds  cup  of 
bread  crumbs,  almond  extract. — Mrs.  Chas.  Gerber. 


GINGER  COOKIES. 
24  cup  of  molasses,  1    cup  of  lard, 

1    cup  of  sugar,  Two-thirds  cup  of  sour  milk, 

1  tablespoon  of  ginger,  3   level  teaspoons  of  soda, 

2  eggs,  Flour  for  soft  dough. 


A  pinch  of  salt, 


Mrs.   H.   E.   Metzger. 


CHEAP  GINGER  COOKIES. 
1    cup  sugar,  2   teaspoons  baking  powder, 

1    cup  molasses,  Salt  to  taste, 

1    cup  lard,  2   tablespoons  ginger. 

Enough  flour  to  stir.     Roll  very  thin  and  bake  quickly. 

Mrs.  T.  O.  Tanton. 


108  PEORIA  WOMEN'S  COOK  BOOK 

SOFT  SUGAR  COOKIES. 

1  cup  butter,  1    cup  sour  milk, 

2  cups  sugar,  2   teaspoons  soda, 
Yolks  of  4  eggs,  1    teaspoon  nutmeg. 

Sprinkle  sugar  over  them  before  putting  in  oven. — Mrs.  A.  M.  Bishop. 


CHOCOLATE  COOKIES. 
Yl  cup  butter,  melted,  Yl    teaspoon  soda   dissolved  in  hot 

1  cup  light  brown  sugar,  water, 

2  cups  flour,  2  eggs, 

Yl  cup  chopped  nuts,  2Yi  squares  chocolate. 

Yl  cup  sweet  milk, 

Drop  and  bake  in  buttered  tins. — Mrs.  O.  B.  Edmonson. 


CREAM  COOKIES. 
2  cups  light  brown  sugar,  Two-thirds  cup  butter  or  lard, 

1    cup  sweet  cream,  2  eggs, 

1    heaping  teaspoon  baking  powder,      1    teaspoon  lemon  extract. 

Enough  flour  to  make  a  soft  dough,  sift  white  sugar  over  when  rolled 
for  cutting. — Mrs.  A.  S.  Hagerty. 


DROPPED  FRIED  CAKES. 

1  cup  sugar,  1    cup  milk, 
1Yl  cups  flour,                                          3   eggs, 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  Nutmeg. 

Fry  slowly,  dropping  in  one  teaspoonful  at  a  time.      Powder  with 
sugar. — Mrs.  Jno.  Kelly. 


SORGHUM  COOKIES. 
Heaping  cup  C.  sugar,  1    cup  sorghum, 

1    cup  lard,  2  eggs, 

1    cup  sour  milk,  1    teaspoon  soda, 

1    teaspoon  vinegar,  1    teaspoon  ginger. 

1    teaspoon  nutmeg, 

Roll  out  as  moist  as  possible  and  cover  with  powdered  sugar  frosting. 

Mrs.  P.  R.  McComas. 


PEORIA  WOMENCS  COOK  BOOK  109 

DREAMS. 
2  cups  of  flour,  4  level  teaspoons  baking  powder, 

1    level  teaspoon  of  salt,  2  tablespoons  butter  or  lard, 

1    cup  sweet  milk, 

Stir  and  drop  in  buttered  pans  about  4  inches  apart  and  bake  in  quick 
oven.— Mrs.  H.  W.  Kelly. 


SAND  TARTS. 

1  lb.  butter — 2  cups,  1    teaspoonful  vanilla, 

2  lbs.  sugar — 4  cups,  6   eggs, 

2  lbs.  flour — 8  cups,  Yl  lb.  almonds. 

Mix  butter  and  sugar  to  cream,  then  add  beaten  yolks.  Then  the 
flour  and  beaten  whites  alternately.  If  not  stiff  enough  to  roll  out,  add  a 
little  more  flour,  but  just  enough  to  roll  very  thin.  Cut  out  in  fancy  shapes. 
After  you  have  put  them  in  the  pan  run  over  each  one  with  white  of  egg, 
place  2  or  3  pieces  of  blanched  almonds  on  top  and  sprinkle  over  all  with 
mixture  of  three-fourths  granulated  sugar  and  one-fourth  cinnamon.  Half 
the  receipe  is  sufficient  quantity  for  small  family.  Delicious  served  with 
coffee  or  afternoon  tea. — Mrs.  S.  M.  Miller. 


BROWNIES. 

1  cup  of  sugar,  I    teaspoon  of  vanilla, 
Yl  cup  of  flour,                                        Yl  cup  of  butter, 

2  eggs,  2  squares  chocolate. 
Nuts  of  any  kind, 

Stir  up  like  cake,  pour  into  greased  pan  and  bake  from  20  to  30 
minutes.     Cut  in  squares. — Geneive  Kullmer. 


COCOANUT  CREAM  BARS. 
2  teaspoons  butter,  Yl  cup  sweet  milk. 

1  Yl  cups  white  sugar, 

Heat  slowly  to  the  boiling  point.  Boil  1 2  minutes.  Add  one-third 
cup  cocoanut  and  Yl  teaspoon  vanilla.  Beat  until  creamy  and  pour  into 
buttered  tins. — Mrs.  R.  M.  Wrigley. 


DROP  CAKES. 

One  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  1  cup  butter,  1  Yl  cups  chopped  raisins, 

3  eggs,  2>Yi  cups  flour,  pinch  of  salt,  a  little  nutmeg,  I  teaspoon  cinnamon, 

1   teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  a  little  hot  water,  2  teaspoons  sweet  milk,   1 

lb.  shelled  walnuts,  chopped.     Drop  in  dripping  pans. — Mrs.  J.  M.  Baillie. 


110  PEORIA  WOMEN'S  COOK  BOOK 

MOLASSES  COOKIES. 
1  Yl  CUP  01  sugar,  1    cup  of  molasses, 

1  cup  of  lard,  Two-thirds  cup  of  hot  coffee, 

2  eggs,  3   teaspoons  of  soda, 
Yl  teaspoon  of  salt,                                   2   teaspoons  of  vinegar, 
5   teaspoons  of  cinnamon,  1    teaspoon  of  cloves, 

2   teaspoons  of  ginger,  1    teaspoon  of  nutmeg, 

%  teaspoon  of  allspice,  Flour  for  soft  dough, 

This  make  3  dozen  cookies. — Mrs.  L.  W.  Foster. 


SCOTCH  COOKIES. 
1  Yl  Pt-  brown  sugar,   (heaping) ,         3  eggs, 

%  pt.  lard,  1   heaping  tablespoon  of  soda. 

4  pts.  flour,    (rounding),  Flavor  to  taste. 

Yl  pt.  molasses, 

Beat  an  egg  and  brush  on  top  before  baking. — Oma  Flora. 


MARGUERITES. 
1    cup  sugar,  2  tablespoons  shredded  cocoanut, 

Yl  cup  water,  Ya  teaspoon  vanilla, 

5  marshmallows,  1  cup  English  walnuts  (chopped) 

Whites  of  2  eggs,  Saltines. 

Boil  sugar  and  water  until  syrup  will  thread.  Remove  from  fire, 
and  add  marshmallows  cut  in  pieces.  Pour  onto  the  whites  of  eggs;  then 
add  cocoanut,  vanilla,  and  nut  meats.  Spread  saltines  with  mixture,  and 
bake  until  delicately  browned. — Mrs.  Wm.  Stoltzman. 


VANITIES. 
One  egg,  pinch  of  salt,  beat  well,  add  enough  flour  to  make  paste 
thick  enough  to  roll.      Roll  very  thin.      Cut  in  strips  with  slit  in  center. 
Bake  in  hot  grease  as  doughnuts  till  brown.     Roll  in  powdered  sugar  and 
cinnamon  mixed. — Mrs.  Josephine  Bush. 


COCOANUT  PUFFS. 

1  cup  granulated  sugar,  2  tablespoonsful  flour. 

2  cups  cocoanuts, 

Stiffly  beaten  whites  of  3  eggs,  mix  well  and  drop  in  small  cakes  in  a 
well  buttered  pan.      Bake  in  quick  oven. — Mrs.  Henry  DeMoure. 


PEORIA  WOMEN'S  COOK  BOOK  111 

CREAM  PUFFS. 

Yl  cup  butter,  4  eggs, 

I    cup  boiling  water,  1    cup  flour. 

Put  butter  in  water,  bring  to  boiling  point,  add  quickly  flour  and  salt, 
stir  well,  remove  from  fire  and  allow  mixture  to  become  cool,  but  not  cold, 
add  eggs  one  at  a  time  and  beat  thoroughly.  Bake  from  thirty  to  forty 
minutes.  When  cool,  split  open  side  and  fill  with  whipped  cream,  sweet- 
ened to  taste  or  with  filling  made  as  follows:  Yl  CUP  scalded  milk,  two- 
thirds  cup  sugar,  4  tablespoons  flour,  2  eggs,  '/*  teaspoon  salt,  1  teaspoon 
vanilla,  2  teaspoons  butter. — Mrs.  L.  E.  Graham. 


DROP  DOUGHNUTS. 
1   gill  milk,   (a  gill  is  J/4  pt.)  1    heaping  teaspoon  baking  powder, 

1    gill  sugar,  1    egg, 

3   gills  flour,  One-third  teaspoon  salt, 

3   grated  nutmegs,  Grated  rind  of  1    lemon. 

Beat  the  egg  white  stiff,  beat  the  yolk  and  sugar  with  it,  add  season- 
ing, then  the  milk  and  flour,  beat  well,  drop  a  teaspoon  of  this  mixture  into 
deep  fat  and  fry  until  done,  about  4  minutes,  do  not  stick  fork  into  them, 
this  amount  of  flour  is  seldom  enough,  add  until  the  batter  is  stiff  enough  to 
drop  off  in  "chunks."  This  makes  about  20  balls.  Roll  in  sugar  if  so 
desired. — Lucie  W.  Armstrong. 


DOUGHNUTS. 
Beat  2  eggs,  add :     1  cup  sugar,  little  salt,  2  tablespoons  melted  butter, 
1  cup  sour  milk,  with  Yl  teaspoon  soda,  dissolved,  1  teaspoon  nutmeg,  1  Yl 
teaspoon  baking  powder.     Flour  to  roll. — Mrs.  A.  S.  Plummer. 


GERMAN  DOUGHNUTS. 
One  pt.   of  buttermilk  in  which  put    1    teaspoon  of  soda,    1  j/£   cups 
sugar,  1    large  teaspoon  lard,  2  eggs,   1    teaspoon  of  salt,  and  teaspoon  of 
nutmeg.      Mix  stiff  and  fry. — Mrs.  H.  Carl  Conklin. 


GINGER  BREAD. 

One  cup  molasses,  Yl  CUP  sugar»  Yl  CUP  water,  1  tablespoon  butter, 
put  these  in  a  pan  and  warm.  When  the  shortening  is  melted,  cool  a  little 
and  stir  in  1  beaten  egg.  Sift  2  cups  flour  with  Yl  teaspoon  soda.  Add 
ginger  and  spice  to  the  mixture  and  then  stir  in  the  flour. 

Mrs.  F.  E.  Gardner. 


\ 


112  PEORIA  WOMEN'S  COOK  BOOK 

SOFT  GINGER  BREAD.     (Excellent.) 
Yl  cup  of  brown  sugar,  2Yi  cups  of  flour, 

1  cup  New  Orleans  molasses,  Yl  CUP  of  butter  and  lard  mixed, 
Yi  teaspoon  cinnamon,  1   small  teaspoon  ginger, 

2  small  teaspoons  soda  in  one  cup        Yl  teaspoon  cloves, 
of  boiling  water, 

Add  two  well  beaten  eggs  last  thing  before  baking. 

Mrs.  Susie  Belford. 


SHREWSBURY  CAKES. 
I    lb.  flour,  Yl  lb.  butter, 

Yl  lb.  powdered  sugar,  2  eggs  well  beaten. 

A  little  cinnamon  or  any  prepared  flavoring.  Soften  butter  a  little, 
mix  all  ingredients  together  into  a  smooth  paste,  roll  out  less  than  one-eighth 
inch.    Bake  in  hot  oven  on  floured  tins. — Mrs.  Wm.  Moynan,  Columbus,  O. 


FROSTED  GINGER  CREAMS. 
I    cup  C.  sugar,  2  eggs, 

1    cup  molasses,  3  cups  flour, 

Ya  cup  lard,  1    cup  sour  milk. 

One  teaspoon  each  cinnamon  and  ginger  and  soda.     Save  white  of 
one  egg  for  frosting. — Mrs.  N.  R.  Moore. 


DATE  BARS. 
1    cup  dates  chopped  fine,  2  eggs, 

1    cup  nuts  chopped  fine,  2  cups  flour, 

1    cup  sugar,  1    teaspoon  baking  powder. 

Spread  in  shallow  pan.  Bake  in  slow  oven  thirty  minutes.  When 
done,  turn  on  board,  and  cut  in  narrow  bars  while  hot  and  roll  in  confec- 
tioner's sugar. — Carrie  E.  Turnbull,  Carlinville,  111. 


CORN  CAKES. 

2  eggs,  24  CUP  raisms  and  nuts  chopped, 

1    tablespoon  butter,  heaping,  Pinch  of  salt. 
1    cup  sugar, 

Mix  with  milk  or  water.  Mix   the  same  as   cake.      Use   the  self 

rising  pan  cake  flour. — Mrs.  N.  Paradise. 


DESSERT 


All  human  history  attests,  that  happiness  for  man— the  hungry  sin- 
ner—since Eve  ate  apples,  much  depends  on  dinner.  —Byron. 


MERINGUE  DESSERT. 
Whites  of  3  large  eggs,  1  Yk  cuPs  sugar,  Yl  teaspoon  vanilla.  Beat 
eggs  very  light  and  beat  in  the  sugar  and  last  the  vanilla.  Have  greased 
heavy  paper,  drop  a  little  more  than  a  level  "large  baking  spoon,"  of  the 
mixture  with  the  round  side  up  on  the  oiled  paper  until  all  is  used,  then 
light  your  oven  and  turn  very  low.  Let  bake  40  minutes,  then  turn  out  fire 
in  oven  and  let  cool  in  the  oven.  Do  not  light  oven  until  ready  to  put 
them  in.     Serve  with  whipped  cream. — Mrs.  Wellington  Housworth. 


QUINCE  JELLY  DESSERT. 
Add  one  cup  boiling  water  to  one  glass  of  firm  quince  jelly,  stir  until 
jelly  is  milted.  Then  add  two  tablespoonsful  corn  starch  mixed  with  a 
pinch  of  salt  and  enough  water  to  make  a  thin  paste.  Cook  slowly  about 
ten  minutes.  When  cold  beat  •  with  an  egg  beater  several  minutes  then 
add  beaten  whites  of  two  eggs  and  beat  again  until  very  light.  Add  a 
cupful  of  pecan  or  English  walnut  meats.  A  few  drops  of  red  fruit  color- 
ing makes  it  a  prettier  color. — Mrs.  C.  W.  Colby. 


ENGLISH  PLUM  PUDDING. 

Adopted  from  my  great  great  grandmother's  Recipe.  The  original 
receipe  is  nearly  300  years  old. 

Recipe:  1  lb.  beef  suet  chopped  fine,  I  lb.  each  raisins  and  cleaned 
currants,  Yl  lb.  citron  shaved  thin,  1  scant  cup  brown  sugar,  3  cups  grated 
bread,  1  tablespoon  each  of  ground  nutmeg,  cinnamon  and  mace,  4  table- 
spoons of  cream,  6  eggs.  Zest  and  juice  of  5  oranges  and  2  lemons  (juice 
should  equal  1  cup.)  1  cup  flour  and  Yl  a  teaspoon  salt.  Sift  flour,  salt  and 
spires  together,  add  suet  and  fruit,  mix  thoroughly.  Now  beat  the  egg 
yolks  and  add  the  cream,  then  stir  into  them  the  other  ingredients,  adding 
last  the  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites.  Steam  six  hours  without  letting  the  water 
stop  boiling.  Replenish  when  needed  with  boiling  water.  These  puddings 
may  be  made  a  month  before  Christmas.     Store  the  same  as  fruit  cake. 

Mrs.  M.  L.  Fuller. 


Blue  Ribbon  Canned  Goods 


For  over  twenty  years 
the  name  BLUE  RIBBON 
on  canned  fruits  and 
vegetables  has  been  a 
definite  assurance  of  fine 
quality  to  the  women  of 
Peoria. 

"QUALITY    FIRST" 

is  our  watchword 

Oakford  &  Fahnestock 

WHOLESALE 
GROCERS 


Phone  M-521 

J.  R.  SCHNEBLY 

HOUSE   RENTING,   REAL   ESTATE 
Fire  and  Tornado  Insurance 

1201-2  Jefferson  Building 

ACME  TYPEWRITER  EXCHANGE 

All  Makes  of  Machines  Bought,  Sold,  Rented  and  Repaired 
1201-2  Jefferson  Builline  Phone  M-521 

ALBERT   E.   GILES 

MANUFACTURER   OF  AND    DEALER   IN 

BRICKS 


Yards  2400  N.  Elizabeth  St 


Phone  Bluffs  106 


PEORIA  WOMEN'S  COOK  BOOK  115 

ENGLISH  PLUM  PUDDING. 

2   lbs.  raisins,  1    lb.  currants, 

1    teacupful  suet,  1    pint  flour, 

Yl  pint  bread  crumbs,  I    cup  sweet  milk, 

5  eggs,  1    cup  brown  sugar,  « 

One  dozen  cooked  prunes  with  juice,  a  little  candied  lemon  peel, 
a  little  citron,  one  teaspoonful  baking  powder,  spice  to  taste.  Mix  all  to- 
gether and  steam  3  hours.     This  recipe  will  serve  twenty  people. 

Mrs.  J.  Straesser. 


PLUM  ROLL. 
Two  cups  flour  in  mixing  bowl,  a  little  salt,  2  teaspoons  of  baking 
powder,  2  tablespoons  of  butter  mixed  in  flour,  1  well  beaten  egg  to  which 
you  add  Yl  CUP  of  sweet  milk,  add  this  to  flour,  making  a  soft  dough,  roll 
1  Yl  inches  thick. 


FILLING. 
One  cup  chopped  raisins,  add  1  cup  sugar,  grated  rind  and  juice  of  1 
lemon.     Add  last   1    well  beaten  egg,  mix  well,  place  on  the  dough,  roll 
quickly,  put  in  a  steamer  lined  with  greased  paper  or  damp  cloth,  steam  2 
hours. 


SAUCE. 
Two  tablespoons  of  butter,  melt  and  add  1   tablespoon  of  flour,  two- 
thirds  cup  sugar,  mix  well,  add  the  yolk  of  1   egg;  add  slowly  2  cups  warm 
water,  cook  to  a  smooth  sauce  in  double  boiler,  add   1    teaspoon  lemon; 
stir  in  when  at  boiling  point  the  well  beaten  whites  of  two  eggs. 

Miss  Emma  Thompson. 


PUDDING. 
1   cup  raw  grated  carrot,  1    teaspoon  cinnamon, 

1  cup  raw  grated  potato,  Yz  teaspoon  cloves, 

Yl   cup  currants,  Yl  teaspoon  soda  stirred  into  potato, 

Yl  CUP  raisins,  2  tablespoons  butter, 

5   tablespoons  brown  sugar,  Yl  teaspoon  nutmeg. 

5   tablespoons  flour. 

Steam  2  hours  in  buttered  pan.     Sauce:     2  cups  powdered  sugar, 

2  eggs,  butter  size  of  an  egg.     Flavoring. — Bemice  Oliver. 


1 16  PEORIA  WOMEN'S  COOK  BOOK 


SUET  PUDDING. 
1    cup  chopped  suet,  3  cups  flour, 

1    cup   molasses,  1    cup  sweet  milk, 

1    cup  raisins,  1    teaspoon  soda. 

A  little  salt  and  cinnamon.      Steam   in  pound   baking  powder  tins, 
tightly  covered  2  Yl  hours.     Serve  with  a  hard  sauce. 

Mrs.  Joseph  Richer,  Peru,  Ind. 


SUET  PUDDING. 

1  cup  of  suet, 

1    cup  of  sour  milk,  1  teaspoon  of  soda  in  milk, 

1    cup  of  bread  crumbs,  1  cup  of  currants, 

1    cup  of  raisins,  2  cups  of  flour, 

1    teaspoon  of  baking  powder,  1  teaspoon  each  of  cinnamon,  all- 

1    cup  of  sugar,  spice  and  nutmeg. 

Mrs.  H.  E.  Metzger. 


SUET  PUDDING. 

1  cup  suet,  1    teaspoon  soda, 

3  eggs,  1    teaspoon  cinnamon, 

2  cups  dry  bread  crumbs,  Vz  teaspoon  cloves, 
Yl  cup  molasses,                                      Steam  3  hours, 

1    cup  sugar,  Use  hard  sauce. 

1    cup  seeded  raisins, 

Hard  Sauce:     1   cup  powdered  sugar,  4  tablespoons  butter,   (level), 
white  one  egg  beaten  stiff. — Mrs.  Henry  DeMoure. 


SNOW  PUDDING. 
Yolks  3  eggs,  1    teaspoon  of  corn  starch, 

1    pt.  of  milk,  2   tablespoons  sugar, 

Pinch  of  salt,  Vanilla. 

Boil  this  until  it  is  a  thin  custard.  ]/l  package  of  gelatine  ( 1  level 
tablespoon).  Soak  in  '/4  cup  of  cold  water,  when  thoroughly  dissolved,  add 
1  cup  of  boiling  water,  1  cup  sugar,  juice  of  1  lemon,  strain  and  cool. 
When  cool  but  not  quite  stiff,  pour  over  the  well  beaten  whites  of  3  eggs, 
and  beat  thoroughly.  Keep  separate  until  serving,  then  put  some  of  the 
gelatine  in  each  dish,  covering  with  the  custard. — Mrs.  W.  E.  Martin. 


PEORIA  WOMEN'S  COOK  BOOK  117 

STEAMED  CHOCOLATE  PUDDING. 
One  egg,  Yl  cup  sugar,  Yl  cup  milk,  1   teaspoon  butter,  1    teaspoon 
baking  powder,  1  and  one-third  cups  flour.     Steam  one  hour.     Sauce:     3 
eggs  beaten  separately,    1    cup  sugar,  vanilla.     Steam  yolks  and  sugar  in 
double  boiler  Yl  hour.     Add  beaten  whites. — Mrs.  S.  C.  Rosenberg. 


STEAMED  CHOCOLATE  PUDDING. 

2  cups  flour,  Ya,  cup  sugar, 

3  teaspoons  baking  powder,  2  tablespoons  butter, 
2  eggs,  2  squares  chocolate. 
1    cup  milk 

Sift  the  flour  and  baking  powder,  add  sugar,  then  two  beaten  eggs 
and  milk,  lastly  the  butter  and  chocolate,  both  melted.  Beat  well,  pour 
into  greased  mold  and  steam  two  hours. — Mrs.  R.  O.  Becker. 


BREAD  AND  BUTTER  PUDDING.     (Original.) 
Into  one  pint  milk  put  2  beaten  eggs,  half  cup  of  sugar  and  flavor. 
Drop  into  this  bits  of  bread  buttered  on  both  sides.     Bake  twenty  minutes 
in  moderate  oven.     Serve  with  cream. — Mrs.  Frances  M.  Schnebly. 


ENGLISH  WALNUT  PUDDING. 
1    cup  molasses,  3  Yl  cups  flour, 

Yl  cup  butter,  1   teaspoon  cinnamon, 

1    egg,  Yl  CUP  cloves, 

1    teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  1   cup      Yl  cup  walnuts, 
of  boiling  water,  1  cup  raisins. 

Steam  2-Yl  hours.     Serve  with  any  kind  of  sauce  desired. 

Mrs.  A.  G.  Zj 


DATE  PUDDING. 
Put  24  cup  of  dates  and  the  same  of  nuts  through  the  chopper  (mix 
nuts  and  dates  first) .  Then  add  24  cup  of  sugar,  1  Yl  tablespoonful  of 
flour,  yolks  of  two  eggs,  and  one  teaspoonful  of  baking  powder.  Mix  well 
together,  then  fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs.  Put  in  a  square 
pan  and  bake  30  minutes.     Serve  with  cream,  whipped  or  otherwise. 

Mrs.  Emilie  Murdock,  Omaha,  Neb. 


H.  D.  MARTENS 
Designer  and  Decorator 

Painting,  Graining  and  Paper-Hanging 
Phone  2382-L  213  Hurlburt  Street 

Kinsey&  Rutherford  CoalCo. 
"THAT  GOOD  COAL" 

Phone  Main  768  204  N.  Jefferson 

C.  LOVERIDGE,  FLORIST 

Floral  Designs  a  Specialty 

STORE  GREENHOUSE 

127  S.  Jefferson  Avenue  1013   Wisconsin  Avenue 

Phone  Main  209  Phone  Main  1204 

Eyes  Tested  Broken  Lenses 

Glasses  Fitted  Duplicated 

Telephone  Main  2714 

WYATT-DeMOURE  <&  CO. 

Opticians  and  Optometrists 

Where  Peoria  gets  her  glasses 
Central  National  Bank  Bldg.  103  S.  Adams  Street 


PEORIA  WOMEN'S  COOK  BOOK  119 

COTTAGE  PUDDING. 

1  cup  sugar,  1    cup  sweet  milk, 

2  eggs,  1    pt.    flour, 

4  tablespoons  butter,  2  teaspoons  cream  tartar. 

1    teaspoon  soda, 

Bake  and  serve  with  sauce.  Sauce:  Ya  cup  butter,  Yl  teaspoon 
vanilla,  1  cup  powdered  sugar,  Ya  cuP  heavy  cream.  Cream  butter  and 
sugar,  add  vanilla  and  lastly  the  cream,  whipped. 

Mrs.  J.  A.  Munson,  Morris,  111. 


APPLE  DUMPLINGS. 
5   apples,  Yl  teaspoonful  salt, 

4  tablespoonsful  lard,  24  cupful  milk, 

2   cupsful  flour,  Sugar, 

2  teaspoonsful  baking  powder,  Cinnamon. 

Sift  flour,  baking  powder,  and  salt  together.  Work  in  lard  with 
finger  tips;  add  gradually  milk,  mixing  with  knife  to  a  nice  dough.  Roll 
Yl  mcn  thick,  cut  into  squares  and  lay  in  center  of  each  an  apple,  pared 
and  cored.  Fill  up  centers  with  sugar  and  cinnamon  and  pinch  the  dough 
together.  Place  in  buttered  baking  pan,  dot  over  with  sugar  and  butter  and 
bake  till  nicely  browned.     Serve  with  milk. — Mrs.  Merrill  I.  Schnebly. 


FIG  PUDDING. 
1    pint  chopped  figs,  1   pint  flour, 

1    teaspoonful  soda,  One-third  pint  hot  butter. 

One-third  pint  hot  water, 

Pour  into  buttered  pudding  pan  and  steam  2 Yl  hours.  Sauce:  1 
tablespoonful  flour  mixed  in  a  little  cold  water,  add  two-thirds  cup  sugar,  a 
little  butter  and  nutmeg,  one  tablespoonful  vinegar  and  one  pint  hot  water. 
Cook  until  thick. — Mrs.  W.  J.  Leach. 


LOUISIANA  FRUIT  PUDDING. 
Put  in  a  sauce  pan  the  juice  of  one  can  of  pineapple,  juice  of  1  lemon, 
Yl  cup  sugar,  Yl  b°x  °f  gelatine  that  has  been  dissolved,  Yl  CUP  oi  cold 
water.  Let  come  to  a  scald,  then  pour  over  the  well  beaten  whites  of  four 
eggs.  Cut  the  pineapple  in  small  pieces  and  add  Yl  pound  of  grapes  halved 
and  seeded.  Arrange  the  fruit  in  molds,  pour  the  liquid  gelatine  over  it  and 
let  congeal.  Serve  with  a  custard  made  by  cooking  1  pt.  of  milk,  yolks 
of  4  eggs,  sugar  and  vanilla  to  taste.     Also  serve  with  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  Otto  Hervig. 


120  PEORIA  WOMEN'S  COOK  BOOK 

PINEAPPLE  PUDDING. 

Yl   box  of  gelatine,  Yl  cup  of  water, 

1   can  of  grated  pineapple,  1    cup  of  sugar. 

Juice  of  one  lemon, 

Cook  until  smooth,  remove  from  fire,  stir  constantly  until  beginning 
to  congeal,  add  one  pint  of  whipped  cream,  stir  thoroughly.  Put  in  molds 
and  serve  cold  with  whipped  cream  and  candied  cherries.  This  will 
serve  twelve. — Mrs.  E.  Hassons. 


PRUNE  PUDDING. 
Thirteen  prunes,  cooked  down  dry  and  chopped  fine,  1  cup  pulverized 
sugar,   Yl  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar,  pinch  of  salt.      Mix  these  ingredients 
together.     Fold  in  the  beaten  whites  of  5  eggs.     Put  in  buttered  dish,  set 
in  pan  of  hot  water,  cover  and  bake  22  minutes. — Mrs.  F.  E.  Gardner. 


STRAWBERRY  PUDDING. 

1   pint  flour,  Yl  CUP  sugar, 

1    heaping  teaspoon  baking  powder,       1    cup  sweet  milk, 

Yl  teaspoon  salt,  2   tablespoons  melted   butter. 

1  egg  well  beaten, 

Steam  one  hour.     Sauce:  one  cup  butter,  three  cups  sugar  creamed, 
one  or  more  quarts  strawberries  crushed,  cook  in  a  double  boiler. 

Mrs.  Earl  Naylor. 


BANANA  PUDDING. 
Six  bananas  sliced  and  juice  of  small  lemon  over  them.     Sauce:     Boil 
14  pint  milk,  beat  yolk  of  one  egg  and  a  level  teaspoon  of  flour,  with  sugar 
enough  to  make  it  very  sweet.     When  milk  boils  stir  in  the  above  mixture 
and  let  cool.     Flavor  to  taste. — Mrs.  L.  W.  Finch. 


CHERRY  PUDDING. 
2  tablespoons  of  butter,  2   cups  of  flour  sifted  with  1  tea- 

1    small  cup  of  sweet  milk,  spoon  of  baking  powder. 

1    small  cup  of  sugar, 

Whites  of  two  eggs  beaten  stiff,  1  cup  of  cherries  from  which  juice  has 
been  drained.  Sauce:  Yolks  of  2  eggs,  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  1  table- 
spoon of  flour,  1  small  cup  of  sugar,  mix  thoroughly,  add  1  cup  of  boiling 
water  and  1  cup  of  cherry  juice.     Stir  until  it  thickens. — Mrs.  Roy  Kellar. 


PEORIA  WOMEN'S  COOK  BOOK  121 

LEMON  RICE  PUDDING. 

One-half  cup  of  rice,  boiled  tender,  Yl  CUP  °f  sugar,  1  Yl  CUPS  °f 
sweet  milk,  beat  yolks  of  2  eggs  and  sugar  together  and  stir  into  the  milk, 
with  grated  rind  of  1  lemon.  Cook  until  it  thickens,  stir  in  rice  which  should 
be  salted  a  little,  cover  with  frosting  made  from  beaten  whites,  and  juice  of 
1  lemon  and  1  cup  sugar,  bake  to  a  light  brown — Mrs.  W.  I.  Slemmons. 


RICE  PUDDING. 

3   pints  milk,  Yl  CUP  raisins, 

6   level  tablespoons  rice,  Pinch  of  salt. 

Yl   cup  sugar, 

Put  into  a  hot  oven  and  bring  to  a  boiling  point  as  soon  as  possible. 
Let  it  remain  just  at,  or  just  below,  the  boiling  point  until  it  is  one  homo- 
geneous mass.  Stir  often  during  the  first  part  of  the  baking  and  then  let  it 
brown  on  top.  This  should  bake  at  least  four  or  six  hours  in  a  very  slow 
oven. — Mrs.   A.   S.   Oakford. 


NESSLERODE  PUDDING. 
One-half  box  gelatine,  1  pt.  milk,  Yl  P*-  co^  water,  two-thirds  cup 
of  raisins,  Ya  lb-  or  maccaroons,  3  tablespoonsful  of  almonds,  1  teaspoonful 
of  vanilla.  Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water.  Let  milk  come  to  a  boil  and  stir 
in  yolks  of  3  eggs  well  beaten;  cook  a  moment.  Dissolve  gelatine  in  it, 
add  raisins,  chopped  fine,  maccaroons,  rolled  fine,  almonds  chopped  fine, 
and  whites  of  eggs,  beaten  stiff.  Stir  until  it  begins  to  thicken  so  fruit  will 
not  settle.  Add  vanilla.  Place  in  mold  on  ice.  Serve  with  whipped 
cream. — Flora  C.  Standlee. 


MARBLE  PUDDING. 
2   cups  of  flour,  2   teaspoons  of  baking  powder, 

Yl  teaspoon  cinnamon,  Ya  teaspoon  of  salt, 

Yolks  2  eggs,   beaten  light,  Two-thirds  cups  of  sugar. 

4  tablespoons  of  melted  butter,  Yl  CUP  °f  c°Id  water,  whites  of  2  eggs 
beaten  dry,  1  Yl  ounces  melted  chocolate.  Sift  together  the  flour,  baking 
powder  and  cinnamon,  and  salt,  to  the  yolks  add  sugar,  butter  and  water, 
stir  into  the  dry  ingredients,  add  whites  of  eggs,  divide  mixture  into  two 
parts,  add  chocolate  to  one  part,  place  two  parts  in  buttered  pan  to  give 
marbled  appearance.  Steam  45-  minutes.  Serve  with  vanilla  sauce.  Sauce: 
Boil  two  cups  of  sugar  and  a  cup  of  water  six  minutes,  add  2  tablespoons 
of  butter  and  a  teaspoon  of  vanilla  extract. — Mrs.  W.  B.  Burt. 


122  PEORIA  WOMEN'S  COOK  BOOK 

ORANGE  PUDDING. 
Pare  and  s^ice  two  or  three  small  oranges.     Sweeten  with  one-half 
cup  sugar.     Custard:     Two-thirds  cup  sugar,  yolks  of  2  eggs,  1  pint  milk, 
1  tablespoon  corn  starch.     When  cold  pour  over  oranges.     Beat  the  whites 
of  eggs  and  pour  over  for  the  frosting.     Bake  a  delicate  brown. 

Mrs.  W.  C.  Tibbetts. 


MACCAROON  PUDDING. 
One  pt.  milk,  1  cup  sugar,  2  tablespoons  vanilla.  Let  boil  and  re- 
move from  fire.  Pour  very  slowly,  stirring  over  yolks  of  5  eggs.  While 
hot  beat  in  one-third  box  of  minute  gelatine,  stir  until  cool.  When  cool 
add  J/4  lb.  maccaroons,  rolled  fine,  24  cup  raisins,  28  almonds,  cut  fine, 
and  beaten  whites  of  5  eggs.     Serve  with  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  James  Huxtable. 


POOR  MAN'S  PUDDING. 

1    cup  of  chopped  raisins,  1  cup  of  molasses, 

1    cup  of  milk,  1  cup  of  chopped  suet, 

3  cups  of  flour,  1  teaspoon  of  salt, 

1    teaspoon  of  cinnamon,  1  teaspoon  of  cloves, 

1    teaspoon  of  allspice,  1  teaspoon  nutmeg, 

More  fruit  improves.  Steam  three  hours. — Mrs.  W.  F.  Baker. 


CORN  MEAL  PUDDING. 
2  eggs,  Salt  to  taste, 

Yl  cup  sugar,  1    teaspoon  saleratus, 

1    cup  sweet  milk,  1  Yl  CUP  Indian  meal, 

1   cup  sour  milk,  Yl  CUP  flour. 

Pour  mixture  into  spider  or  flat  sauce  pan  containing  2  spoonsful 
melted  butter  and  pour  into  the  middle  without  stirring  1  cup  sweet  milk. 
Bake  in  hot  oven  Yl  hour. — Mrs.  Charles  C.  Craig. 


BUTTER  SCOTCH  PUDDING. 

Two  cups  light  brown  sugar,  2  cups  boiling  water,  2  teaspoons  corn 

starch,  Yl  CUP  walnut  meats.  Bring  sugar  and  water  to  boil.     Thicken  with 

corn  starch  which  has  been  dissolved  in  a  little  cold  water.      Cook  until 

thick,  remove  from  fire  and  add  nuts.     Chill  and  serve  with  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  W.  B.  Elston. 


PEORIA  WOMEN'S  COOK  BOOK  123 

CRACKER  PUDDING. 

One  pt.  milk,  2  eggs  yolks  well  beaten,  scant  Yl  CUP  cracker  crumbs 
rolled  fine,  2  tablespoonsful  cocoanut.  Bake  Yl  nour  an°l  men  spread  over 
it  a  frosting  from  the  whites  of  the  2  eggs  and  a  scant  Yl  cupful  sugar. 
Bake  in  the  oven. — Misses  S.  and  E.  Benton. 


ROCKEFELLER  PUDDING. 
One  lb.    dates,   washed,   pitted  and   quartered,   2   teaspoons   baking 
powder,  2  eggs,  1  Yl  1DS»  English  walnuts,   1   cup  brown  sugar,  3  heaping 
tablespoons  flour.     Bake  20  minutes.     Serve  with  whipped  cream  or  sweet 
sauce  and  jelly. — Mrs.  A.  R.  McLaughlin. 


FOOD  FOR  THE  GODS. 
One-half  lb.  dates  cut  fine,  7  large  tablespoons  of  cracker  crumbs,  6 
eggs  beaten  separately,  1  lb.  English  walnuts  cut  fine,  2  cups  of  granulated, 
sugar,   2   teaspoons  of  baking  powder.      Bake  large  loaf   30  minutes  in 
moderate  oven.      Less  amount   1 5   minutes.      Serve  with  whipped  cream. 
Will  serve  1 8  people. — Mrs.  E.  E.  Barbour. 


FOOD  FOR  THE  GODS. 
Two  cups  sugar,   6  eggs,    1    white  and  yolks  beaten  separately,   7 
tablespoons  cracker  crumbs,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  1   lb.  dates,  1    lb. 
English  walnuts.     If  crackers  are  not  salt,  add  a  little.     Grease  pan,  place 
oiled  paper  in  pan.     Bake  slowly  1  hour.     Serve  with  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  John  Dailey,  Jr. 


MARSHMALLOW  LOAF. 
Beat  the  whites  of  4  eggs  stiff,  into  them  stir  a  tablespoon  of  gelatine 
dissolved  in  Yl  CUP  hot  water.  Add  Yl  CUP  oi  cold  water  and  one  cup 
of  granulated  sugar.  Beat  well  and  divide  into  three  parts.  Flavor  each 
part  differently  or  with  the  same  flavoring  if  preferred.  Color  one  part 
with  melted  chocolate,  one  with  the  beaten  yellow  of  two  eggs  or  leave  it 
white,  and  one  with  pink  coloring.  Let  it  stand  until  you  are  sure  the 
colors  will  not  run  into  each  other,  beating  each  now  and  then.  Dust  a 
bread  pan  with  powdered  sugar,  put  in  one  part  and  sprinkle  with  chopped 
English  walnuts,  and  add  the  next  white  and  more  nuts,  lastly  the  pink. 
After  standing  for  a  few  hours  the  brick  will  turn  out  like  ice  cream.  Serve 
in  slices  with  whipped  cream. — Mrs.  C.  L.  Venard. 


The  mighty  motor  of  the^  Buick  is  still  the 
powerful  Valve-in-head  motor  that  has  made  the 
Buick  famous. 

In  twelve  seasons  of  successful  use  the  Buick 
valve-in-head  motor  has  demonstrated  its  superior- 
ity beyond  all  shadow  of  doubt.  This  motor,  first 
of  all,  is  correct  in  principles;  it  is  standard  in 
parctically  all  European  cars. 

We  would  like  to  have  you  call  in  and  see  our 
new  line.     Prices  range  from  $900.00  to  $1650.00. 

Peoria  Buick  Sales  Co. 

1808-10  MAIN  ST. 


PURE  MILK  and  CREAM 

W.    POPLETT 

972  W.  Virginia  Ave. 

If  You  Want  Good  Milk  and  Good  Service  Try 

H.  PRINGLE'S 

Guaranteed  Pure  Milk  and  Cream 
Fresh  Country  Eggs 

R.  F.  D.  No.  3  Bluffs  247  R  4 


PEORIA  WOMEN'S  COOK  BOOK  125 

PEAR,  MERINGUE,  CUSTARD  SAUCE. 
Select  6  pears  of  uniform  size.  Wipe  and  remove  a  thin  paring, 
leaving  stems  on.  Put  in  casserole  and  add  Yl  CUP  sugar  and  a  few  thin 
shavings  from  the  lemon  rind.  Then  pour  over  one-third  cup  of  water, 
cover  and  bake  until  pears  are  soft.  Remove  pears  from  syrup  and  let 
stand  in  cold  place  until  thoroughly  chilled.  Beat  whites  of  two  eggs  until 
stiff,  then  add  2  tablespoons  powdered  sugar  gradually,  stirring  constantly. 
Spread  each  pear  with  meringue.  Sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar  and  bake 
until  delicate  brown.  Pour  around  sauce.  Custard  sauce :  Mix  1  Yl 
tablespoon  corn  starch,  Y&  teaspoon  salt,  Ya  cuP  sugar.  Pour  two  cups 
scalded  milk  gradually  on  mixture,  return  to  double  boiler  and  cook  ten 
minutes,  stirring  constantly  until  mixture  thickens,  and  afterwards  occasionally. 
Beat  yolks  of  2  eggs  and  dilute  with  small  quantity  of  mixture,  then  add 
remaining  mixture  and  cook  two  minutes,  chill  and  flavor. — Jenny  Rough. 


APPLE  TAPIOCA. 

Soak  24  CUP  pearl  tapioca  for  1  hour  in  enough  cold  water  to  cover ; 
drain,  add  2Yi  cups  boiling  water  and  Yl  teaspoon  salt.  Cook  in  double 
boiler  until  transparent.  Core  and  peel  7  sour  apples,  arrange  in  buttered 
pudding  dish  and  fill  cavities  in  them  with  Yl  CUP  sugar.  Pour  tapioca  over 
them  and  bake  in  moderate  oven  until  apples  are  soft.  Serve  with  sugar  and 
cream  or  with  hard  sauce. — Mrs.  W.  E.  Shaw. 


DATE  TAPIOCA. 

1  quart  milk,  1    cup  chopped  dates, 

2  large  tablespoons  minute  tapioca,      3  eggs. 
Yl  CUP  sugar, 

Stir  frequently  for  fifteen  minutes  in  a  double  boiler  the  boiling  milk 
and  tapioca  and  sugar.  Add  the  yolks  of  eggs  which  have  been  slightly 
cooked  about  three  minutes  before  removing  from  fire.  When  partially 
cool,  stir  in  the  date;  cover  with  the  well  beaten  whites  of  eggs,  with  one 
tablespoonful  of  sugar  added,  and  brown  quickly  in  oven. 

Mrs.   Merrill  Schnebly. 


APPLE  DUMPLINGS. 
Pare  and  dice  apples.  Boil  in  small  amount  of  water  until  tender. 
Sweeten  to  taste  and  flavor  with  either  cinnamon  or  nutmeg.  Add  a  little 
dissolved  flour  and  juice.  Place  in  pastry  that  has  been  spread  with  butter 
and  roll  up  so  as  to  hold  in  the  juice.  Bake  until  light  brown  and  serve  hot 
with  drawn  butter  sauce. — Mrs.  Gloyd  W.  Wray. 


FASHION  and  FUR  FACTS 

WHEN  YOU  THINK  ABOUT  YOUR  FURS REMEMBER 

PROFITLICH'S  FURS 

are  made  by  expert  mechanics  in  our  own  workrooms.  They  are  of 
the  latest  styles,  the  highest  quality  used  in  same  and  guaranteed. 
The  utmost  caution  is  taken  to  make  every  Coat,  Scarf  or  Muff 
distinctive  and  so  they  give  the  best  wearing  service. 


PHONE  M-2369         P  ^<  ^J  F  I  ^^  H         6°8    MA,N    ST" 

FURRIERS  SINCE   1868 

Duanes'  Tea  and  Coffee  House 

DISTRIBUTORS    FOR 

Chase  and  Sanborns  Tea  and  Coffees. 

Geo.  Washington,  White  House  and  the  leading 

brands  of  advertised  coffee. 

The  Best  Always. 

432  Main  Street  Telephone  504 

"Only  the  Finest  Work" 

PLANCK  BROTHERS 

phone  291   LAUNDRY  CO.  82°ma,nst 

BOURKE    &    KENNEDY,  PROPS. 

PEORIA,  ILL. 

J.  B.  WILTON,  BRO.  &  CO. 

UNDERTAKERS 

AND 

EMBALMERS 

PHONES  169 

1304  S.  Adams  St.  PEORIA,  ILL. 


PEORIA  WOMEN'S  COOK  BOOK  127 

RHUBARB  DUMPLINGS. 

1  Yl  cups  flour,  Ya  cup  shortening, 

3   teaspoonsful  baking  powder,  Yl  teaspoonful  salt, 

Yl  cup  milk,  2  tablespoonsful  sugar. 

Fill  muffin  pans  half  or  ^4  full  of  rhubarb,  and  drop  the  above  mixture 
from  spoon  on  top  of  rhubarb. — Eva  Straesser. 


PINEAPPLE  FLUFF. 
One  cup  shredded  pineapple,  Yl  cup  English  walnuts,  Yl  &.  marsh- 
mallows  cut  into  4  or  5  pieces,  1  teacup  whipped  cream.     Mix  all  together 
and  serve  cold.     Can  be  made  several  hours  before  serving. 

Miss  Eva  Dailey. 


MARSHMALLOW  FLUFF. 
One  can  pineapple  cut  in  small  pieces,  1  cup  English  walnuts,  1  lb. 
white  grapes  seeded  and  cut  in  halves,  1  lb.  marshmallows  cut  in  quarters. 
Dressing:  Cook  yolks  of  4  eggs  with  Ya  cup  of  sweet  cream  and  juice  of 
one  lemon.  When  cool,  add  Yl  pint  cream  whipped  and  mix  with  the  fruit. 
Let  stand  24  hours. — Mrs.  J.  E.  Goodrich. 


RAISIN  PUFFS. 
Yl  cup  sugar,  1   cup  raisins, 

Yl  cup  butter,  2  cups  flour, 

1  cup  sweet  milk,  3  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

2  eggs, 

Put  in  jelly  glasses,  fill  glasses  half  full.  Steam  1  hour.  This  will 
make  eight  puffs.  Sauce  for  same:  1  cup  sugar,  Yl  cup  butter,  yolks  of 
2  eggs,  2  tablespoons  flour,  1  pint  of  boiling  water.  Cook  for  a  few 
minutes  then  remove  from  stove  and  add  juice  of  one  lemon. 

Mrs.  G.  E.  Wilde. 


PRUNE  WHIP. 
Wash  and  stew  till  tender,  1  lb.  of  California  prunes;  set  aside  to 
cool.  Remove  seeds  and  skins,  beat  hard,  add  2  cups  of  sugar,  stir  in  the 
whites  of  5  eggs,  whipped  stiff,  beat  again;  pour  into  a  pudding  dish  and 
bake  over  a  pan  of  hot  water  until  it  puffs  and  is  of  a  golden  brown  color. 
Oven  should  be  medium  hot.     Serve  hot  with  whipped  cream. 

Mrs.  O.   P.  Westervelt. 


128  PEORIA  WOMEN'S  COOK  BOOK 


MARSHMALLOW  PUDDING. 

Dissolve  1  tablespoon  of  gelatine  in  Ya  cup  cold  water.  Dissolve  Yl 
of  pink  tablet  in  tablespoonful  cold  water.  Beat  to  a  stiff  froth  the  whites  of 
4  eggs.  Add  boiling  water  to  gelatine  to  fill  cup  and  beat  into  the  whites 
of  eggs.  Add  1  cup  of  white  sugar  (granulated)  and  beat  all  together  for 
20  minutes  or  until  it  gets  stiff.  Take  one-third  of  mixture  and  beat  in 
dissolved  pink  tablet.  Flavor  the  white  as  desired.  Have  mold  ready, 
rinsed  with  cold  water  (a  square  granite  pan  preferred).  Put  into  mold 
Yl  of  white  mixture,  then  add  the  pink  and  last  balance  of  white.  Smooth 
each  layer  with  knife.  Let  stand  several  hours  before  using.  Serve  with 
plain  or  whipped  cream.  Will  serve  8  or  1 0  portions.  Vary  by  using 
chocolate  with  the  pink  and  shredded  pineapple  in  white  layer.  It  will 
keep  several  days. — Flora  C.  Standlee. 


CARAMEL  CUSTARD. 
One  egg  to  each  individual,  1   cup  milk  to  each  egg.     Boil  and  cool. 
Cook  Yl  CUP  sugar  and  4  teaspoons  water  in  a  pudding  dish  until  caramel 
color.     Beat  eggs,  milk,  salt,  vanilla  and  a  little  sugar  and  pour  over  the 
caramel.     Place  pan  in  another  filled  with  hot  water  and  bake  Yl  hour. 

Mrs.  W.  B.  Reed. 


CARAMEL  CUSTARD. 
Three  eggs  beaten  all  together,   1  Yl  CUPS  sweet  milk  and  cream,  3 
teaspoons  sugar,  Yl  teaspoon  vanilla.     Melt  until  brown,  (not  too  brown), 
4  tablespoons  granulated  sugar  in  pudding  pan.     Pour  custard  in.     Bake 
in  pan  of  water  in  moderate  oven. — Mrs.  John  Bossard,  Peru,  Ind. 


CUSTARD. 
One  pt  of  fresh  milk,  yolks  of  4  eggs.     Beat  eggs,  add  sugar  and  beat. 
Pour  this  into  hot  milk  which  is  in  boiling  water.      Flavor  with  vanilla. 
Serve  with  some  of  custard  and  whipped  cream  on  each  slice  of  pudding. 

Mrs.  S.   H.   Banchouer. 


DATE  WHIP. 
1   lb.  chopped  dates,  1   large  cup  ground  nuts,  (English, 

Yl  cup  sugar,  walnuts  and  almonds.) 

Whites  of  5  eggs  stiffly  whipped.     Combine  and  bake  in  very  slow 
oven  for  thirty  minutes.     Serve  with  whipped  cream  or  custard  sauce. 

Mrs.  C.  B.  Baymiller. 


PEORIA  WOMEN'S  COOK  BOOK  129 

PINEAPPLE  WHIP. 
Soak  one  envelope  of  gelatine  in  Yl  Pmt  of  cold  water  five  minutes. 
Add  1  pint  boiling  water,  %  cup  of  sugar,  1  small  can  grated  pineapple. 
Cool  until  slightly  jelled.  Beat,  and  beat  in  Yl  Pmt:  of  cream  (whipped). 
Let  stand  in  a  cool  place  about  one  hour  and  beat  again  just  before  serving. 
Will  serve  8  or  10  sherbet  cups.     Put  marachino  cherry  on  each  one. 

Grace   M.   Upton. 

MARSHMALLOW  CREAM. 

Cut  up  about  one-half  pound  of  marshmallows   (use  scissors  which 

have  been  dipped  in  cold  water.)      Whip  one  cup  of  thick  sweet  cream, 

chop  one  cup  of  English  walnuts  and  mix  all  together,  set  on  ice.     This  is 

much  better  if  made  twenty  hours  before  serving,  and  is  a  delicious  dessert. 

Mrs.  W.  C.  Tibbets. 


CHERRY  AND  NUT  CREAM.     (Original.) 
One  cup  of  cherry  juice,   1   cup  of  water.     Heat  in  a  double  boiler. 
Add  three  tablespoons  of  corn  starch  dissolved  in  Yl  cup  of  water.     Cook 
ten  minutes,  add  %  cup  of  sugar  and  beaten  whites  of  three  eggs.    Nuts  and 
a  little  of  fruit  improves  the  cream. — Mrs.  L.  O.  Eagleton. 


BAVARIAN  CREAM. 
First  part.  1  Yl  envelopes  gelatine,  1  cup  cold  water.  Let  this  stand 
while  preparing  second  part.  Second  part.  3  whole  eggs,  slightly  beaten, 
4  cups  milk,  1  cup  sugar.  Cook  over  steam.  Add  first  part  and  let  stand 
until  jelly-like.  Beat  in  1  cup  cream,  whipped,  1  cup  blanched  almonds,  1 
teaspoon  vanilla,  Ya  cup  candied  cherries,  Yl  cup  pineapple.  Put  into  tin 
to  mold.     Cut  in  squares  and  serve  with  whipped  cream. 

Nell  Pearce,  Gibson  City,  Illinois. 


FRENCH  CHARLOTTE. 
1    tablespoon    gelatine    (minute),  Two-thirds  cup  sugar. 

Two-thirds  cup  hot  water,  1   egg. 

1  cup  milk, 

Dissolve  gelatine  in  hot  water.  Heat  milk  and  sugar.  Add  beaten 
eggs.  Now  add  dissolved  gelatine.  Cool.  When  mixture  thickens  add  Yl 
pint  whipped  cream.  Serve  in  glasses  with  chopped  nuts  and  cherry  on  top. 
9  Jane.  B.  Clemson. 


130  PEORIA  WOMEN'S  COOK  BOOK 

ANGEL  PARFAIT. 

2  tablespoon  gelatine, 
Whites  of  2  eggs  (beaten  dry)  5ct  bottle  maraschino  cherries, 

1  Yl  CUPS  cream   (beaten  light) ,  1   can  shredded  pineapple, 
3  tablespoons  of  syrup  from  mara-         1    lb.  English  walnuts, 

schino  cherries,  1/2  cup  sugar, 

2  tablespoons  cold  water,  Yl  CUP  water. 

Soak  gelatine  in  the  2  tablespoons  water  for  5  minutes.  Boil  water 
and  sugar  to  a  soft  ball  degree.  Pour  on  whites  of  beaten  eggs.  Beat  well. 
Add  gelatine.  When  mixture  begins  to  set  fold  in  cream,  fruit,  syrup  and 
nuts.. 


STRAWBERRY  SHORTCAKE. 
Mix  and  sift  twice  two  cups  of  flour,  four  teaspoons  baking  powder, 
and  one-half  teaspoon  salt.  Work  in  one-fourth  cup  butter,  using  the  tips 
of  fingers.  Add  gradually  three-fourths  cup  milk.  Toss  on  a  floured  board 
and  divide  into  two  parts.  Pat,  roll  out,  and  bake  twelve  minutes  in  a  hot 
oven.  Split  and  spread,  cut  surfaces  with  butter.  Sprinkle  washed  straw- 
berries with  sugar,  warm,  and  crush  slightly,  and  spread  them  between  and 
on  top  of  cake.  Cover  with  whipped  cream,  sweetened  and  flavored  with 
vanilla.     Garnish  with  a  few  choice  strawberries. — Mrs.  M.  J.  Grieves. 


SHREDDED  WHEAT  BISCUIT  WITH  STRAWBERRIES. 
Prepare  berries  as  for  ordinary  serving.  Warm  biscuit  in  oven  before 
using.  Cut  or  crush  obling  cavity  in  top  of  biscuit  to  form  basket.  Fill 
the  cavity  with  berries  and  serve  with  cream  or  milk.  Sweeten  to  taste. 
Peaches,  blackberries,  raspberries,  blueberries,  pineapple,  bananas,  and 
other  fruit,  fresh  or  preserved,  can  be  served  with  Shredded  Wheat  Biscuit 
in  the  same  way. 


DATE  TORT. 
1    cup  granulated  sugar,  3  eggs, 

3  tablespoons  flour,  Salt, 

1   cup  nuts,  Beat  eggs,  add  sugar, 
1    cup  dates,  1   tablespoon  flour  to  nuts, 

Teaspoon  baking  powder,  1   tablespoon  flour  to  dates, 

Flavoring,  1  tablespoon  flour  to  baking  powder. 

Bake  very  slowly.     Serve  with  whipped  cream. — Mrs.  I.  J.  Stanley. 


PEORIA  WOMEN'S  COOK  BOOK  131 

SHORT  CAKE. 
Two  cups  of  flour,  1  heaping  teaspoon  of  baking  powder,  1   tablespoon 
of  butter  and  2  tablespoons  of  lard  rubbed  into  above.      Beat  yolk  of   1 
egg  and  mix  with  a  little  milk,  just  enough  to  make  the  mixture  hold  together. 
Do  not  roll,  simply  spread  on  tins. — Mrs.  T.  E.  Newland. 


BROWN  BETTY. 
Peel,  core  and  quarter  6  apples  in  Yl  CUP  water,  cook  until  tender. 
Put  in  baking  dish  with  alternate  layers  of  soft  bread  crumbs  and  stewed 
apples.     Season  each  layer  with  bits  of  butter,  sugar  and  cinnamon.    Make 
last  layer  of  bread  crumbs.     Bake.     Serve  with  cream  and  sugar. 

Mrs.  E.  F.  Washburn. 


LEMON  SAUCE. 

Mix  1  level  tablespoon  flour  with  1  cup  sugar,  add  Yl  cup  cold  water. 

Mix  to  paste  and  stir  one  and  one-half  cups  boiling  water,  cook  until  creamy. 

Then  add  1    level  tablespoon  butter,  grated  rind  of  half  a  lemon  and  juice 

of  one.     Cook  slowly  until  clear. — Mrs.  M.  J.  Grieves.  » 


CHOCOLATE  SAUCE  FOR  ICE  CREAM  OR  PUDDINGS. 
Mix  1  cup  sugar,  6  tablespoons  chocolate,  grated,  1   tablespoon  flour. 
Add  to  1  pint  boiling  water  and  cook  until  thick.     Add  1  teaspoon  butter 
and  Yl  teaspoon  vanilla. — Mrs.  W.  C.  Tobias. 


HARD  SAUCE. 
1   cup  of  powdered  sugar,  One-third  cup  of  butter, 

Yl  cup  of  cream,  2  tablespoons  boiling  water. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  add  boiling  water  and  beat.     Then  add 
the  cream  and  beat  until  foamy,  add  a  teaspoon  of  vanilla. 

Mrs.  David  Cowan. 


CHRISTMAS  PUDDING  SAUCE. 
Boil  toegther  2  cups  sugar  and  1  Yl  CUPS  °f  water,  eight  minutes, 
mix  smoothly  together  three  slightly  rounding  teaspoons  of  arrowroot  and  a 
little  cold  water,  stir  into  the  syrup  and  let  simmer  gently  five  or  six  minutes. 
Just  before  serving,  add  half  a  cup  of  candied  cherries  cut  in  halves,  and 
one-fourth  cup  of  blanched  pistachio  nuts  cut  in  quarters.     Flavor  to  taste. 

Mrs.   M.  L.  Fuller. 


132  PEORIA  WOMEN'S  COOK  BOOK 

BANANA  SHORTCAKE. 
2  cups  flour,  Ya  cuP  sugar, 

Yi  teaspoon  salt,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder, 

Ya  cuP  butter,  Yl  teaspoon  salt. 

Sift  together  salt,  sugar,  baking  powder,  work  in  the  butter,  beat  the 
yolks,  add  the  milk  and  mix.  Roll  out  and  place  in  tin  cake  pans,  bake 
about  1  5  minutes.     Put  together  with  sliced  bananas  and  serve  with  cream. 

Miss  Eva  Dailey. 


ICE  CREAMS  AND  ICES 

Life's  a  mockery  and  cheat, 

So  much  you  like  and  dassent  eat.  — Old  Song. 


LEMON  CREAM. 

1  quart  milk,  Juice  of  3  lemons. 

2  cups  sugar, 

Freeze  the  milk  slightly,   then  add  the  sugar  and   lemon  juice  and 
freeze  hard. — Mrs.  Wm.  Heyl. 


CARAMAL  ICE  CREAM. 
3  pints  milk,  2  eggs, 

Yi  CUP  corn  starch,  Yl  cup  chopped  maple  sugar. 

I  Y*,  cups  granulated  sugar, 

Make  a  custard  of  milk,   corn  starch,   granulated  sugar,   and  eggs, 
Melt  the  maple  sugar  in  a  skillet  and  add  to  the  custard  while  hot. 

Mrs.  A.  S.  Oakford. 


ORANGE  SHERBET. 
Make  a  syrup  of  6  cups  of  sugar.     To  this  add  the  juice  of  5  lemons, 
the  juice  of  1 2  good  sized  oranges  and  enough  water  to  fill  a  gallon  freezer. 
Before  it  become  solid  add  the  beaten  whites  of  four  eggs. 

Mrs.  P.  R.  McComas. 


MILK  SHERBET. 
Four  cups  milk,   1  Yl  CUPS  sugar,  9  tablespoons  lemon  juice.     When 
the  milk  is  partly  frozen  add  the  mixed  sugar  and  lemon  juice. 

Misses  S.  and  E.  Benton. 


PINEAPPLE  SHERBET. 
Two  cans  of  grated  pineapple,  juice  of  3  lemons,  1   qt.  sugar  and  1 
pt.  water  boiled  to  a  thick  syrup,  add  Ya   °°x  °f  gelatine  and  2  pts.  of 
water,  when  partly  frozen  add  whites  of  4  eggs  beaten  stiff. 

Edna  Westervelt,  Fairbury,  111. 


HupmobllQ  HupmobllQ 

Cor-  of   tFTS  Arr»«t-lcor*  Frtenr>ll»'      Om-  of   TffV*  American  PGmtP 


RELIANCE  MOTOR  CO. 


DISTRIBUTERS 


116  South  Madison    Street 


PEORIA  WOMEN'S  COOK  BOOK  135 

STRAWBERRY  ICE. 
Pick  over,  wash,  drain  and  hull  1  qt.  strawberries.  Sprinkle  with  1 
cup  sugar,  cover  and  let  stand  2  hours.  Wash,  squeeze  through  cheese 
cloth,  add  1  cup  water  and  lemon  juice  to  taste.  Freeze,  using  3  parts 
finely  crushed  ice  to  one  part  rock  salt.  Ice  prepared  in  this  way  retains 
color  of  fruit. — Mrs.  M.  J.  Grieves. 


APRICOT  ICE. 
1   can  apricots,  1   tablespoon  gelatine, 

I   qt.  water,  2  large  cups  sugar. 

Juice  of  2  lemons, 

Put  apricots  thru  sieve.     Dissolve  gelatine  in  a  little  hot  water.     Mix 
all  together  and  freeze. — Mrs.  Moorehead. 


MAPLE  MOUSSE. 
Two  eggs,  y$  cup  of  maple  syrup,  1  pint  whipped  cream.     Stir  maple 
syrup  with  beaten  eggs  and  heat,  then  cool  and  add  cream.     Save  a  little 
of  the  whipped  cream  for  the  top  when  serving.     Chill  thoroughly. 

Mrs.  A.  E.  Giles. 


FROZEN  PLUM  PUDDING. 
1  pint  milk,  1   cup  nuts, 

1   cup  sugar,  2  teaspoons  cinnamon, 

6  eggs,  2  teaspoons  cloves, 

1    cup  citron,  5c  marshmallows. 

1  cup  each  raisins,  dates,  figs, 

Make  custard  of  milk,  sugar  and  eggs.  When  cool  add  cream.  Fruit, 
spices,  marshmallows  and  chocolate  coloring.  Pack  in  ice  and  let  stand 
about  three  hours.     Serve  with  Whipped  cream. — Mrs.  I.  J.  Stanley. 


BISCUIT  GLACE. 

Yolks  of  8  eggs,   1    cup  or  J/2  lb.  pulverized  sugar.      Beat  these  to- 
gether until  very  light.      1    quart  cream  whipped  until  firm,  then  beat  in 
the  yolks  and  sugar.     Flavor  with  vanilla.     Pack  in  freezer  and  let  stand 
4or  5  hours  without  stirring. — Marie  Huff,  Wabash,  Ind. 


136  PEORIA  WOMEN'S  COOK  BOOK 

MAPLE  PARFAIT. 
Yolks  of  4  eggs  beaten,  1  cup  maple  syrup.     Cook  until  thick.     When 
cold,  add  one  pint  of  whipped  cream  and  freeze. 

Marie  Huff,  Wabash,  Ind. 


FROZEN  DATE  PUDDING. 
1    quart  milk   (scalded),  Pinch  of  salt, 

1  cup  sugar,  24  cup  dates  or  figs, 

3  eggs,  '/4  cup  English  walnuts. 

Beat  eggs  slightly,  add  sugar  and  salt,  stir  constantly  while  adding 
gradually  the  milk.  Cook  in  double  boiler,  continue  stirring  until  mixture 
thickens  and  a  coating  is  formed  on  the  spoon.  Flavor  to  taste.  When 
custard  is  cool,  add  dates  or  figs  and  nuts  chopped  fine.  Turn  mixture  into 
mold  or  freezer,  pack  in  ice  and  salt  and  let  stand  several  hours. 

Mrs.  Thomas  Lowry. 


CONES. 
5  eggs,  2  qts.  flour, 

2  J/2  cups  sugar,  2  teaspoons  vanilla. 

Beat  eggs  and  sugar  together  until  light,  add  flour  and  enough  water 
to  make  smooth  batter,  then  thin  out  until  it  runs  easy;  lastly  add  vanilla. 
Have  your  cone  griddles  hot  and  bake.     This  recipe  makes  50  cones. 

Mrs.  N.  Paradise. 


PASTRY  AND  PIE 

A  good  pastry  maker  is  as  rare  as  a  good  orator. 

—I' Almanack  des  Gourmands. 


PIE  CRUST. 

Two  and  one-half  tablespoonsful  lard,  %  cup  flour,  ]/s  teaspoon 
baking  powder.  Sift  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt.  Have  lard  very  cold 
and  mix  thoroughly  with  a  silver  fork.  Add  enough  ice  cold  water  to 
make  it  stick  together.     Mix  a  little  at  a  time  till  all  is  mixed. 

Mrs.  H.  R.  Shofe. 


PIE  CRUST. 
1    cup  of  flour,  2  tablespoons  of  lard, 

3  tablespoons  water,  Yl  teaspoon  salt  and  baking  powder. 

Enough  for  one  pie. — Mrs.  R.  E.  Stowell. 


FROSTING  FOR  PIE. 
The  white  of  1   egg  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  2  tablespoons  of  sugar,  1 
apple,  tart,  grated  fine,  J4  teaspoon  of  flavoring  extract. 

Mrs.  Winslow  Evans. 


MINCEMEAT.    (Original.) 
1  lb.  suet  cut  fine,  5  cups  soup  meat  well  cooked  and 

4  cups  seeded  raisins,  chopped  fine, 
3  cups  brown  sugar,                                4  cups  currants, 

10  cups  chopped  apples,  2  cups  granulated  sugar, 

5  teaspoons  salt,  3  cups  meat  liquor, 

1   teaspoon  ground  mace,  8  teaspoons  ground  cinnamon, 

Juice  and  grated  rind  of  2  lemons,  1  teaspoon  ground  cloves, 

Yl  lb.  citron  cut  fine,  '/4  lb.  orange  peel  cut  fine, 

Yl  gallon  cider,  1  quart  raspberry  vinegar. 

Mrs.  John  E.  Keene. 


311    MAIN 


Specialist  in 

Crown    and    Bridge   Work 

Graduate  of  the  oldest  dental  college  in  the 
world — Baltimore  College  of  Dental  Surgery. 
Awarded  highest  honors  in  crown  and  bridge 
work  by  B.  C.  D.  S.,'05. 

We  use  only  the  highest  grade  materials. 

PAINLESS  METHODS 

HAVE  COME  TO  STAY 

We  have  extracted,  filled  and  crowned 
thousands  of  bad  teeth  painlessly  for  hundreds 
of  pleased  patients.  You  will  be  surprised 
how  easily  we  can  do  your  work.  Lady 
attendant.  Examinations  free.  Phone  5594. 
Beet  Crown  and  Bridge  work,  per 

tooth $5.00 

All  work  guaranteed. 

Hours  8  to  6  p.  m.    Evenings  by  appointment. 

■tlio  Dentist 

Apollo  Building 


PIE-CRUST 

To  obtain  that  nice,  flaky  pie-crust,  use: 

1  Cup  Flour. 

2  Tablespoonfuls  Wilson's  Premier  Lard. 

3  Tablespoonfuls  Water. 


WILSON  PROVISION  CO. 


"PREMIER"  Hams,  Bacon  and  Lard. 


PEORIA  WOMEN'S  COOK  BOOK  139 

MINCE  MEAT. 
3  J/2  lbs.  meat  before  cooked,  1  Yl  teaspoons  cinnamon, 

Yi  lb.  suet,  2  lbs.  C.  sugar, 

Yl  peck  apples,  1    lb.  candied  orange  peel, 

2  lbs.   raisins,  1    small  can  grated  pineapple, 

1    lb.  currants,  Yl  gallon  cider, 

Yl  lb.  citron,  Yl  Pmt  water, 

Ya  lb.  candied  cherries,  1    teaspoon  cloves. 

Salt  meat  while  cooking,  do  not  have  more  than  1  Yl  CUP  °f  liquid 
when  done,  add  to  the  meat,  etc.,  water,  then  cider  boiling  hot,  then  liquid 
boiling  hot. — Mrs.  Harry  Miller. 


MINCE  MEAT. 
(My  Great  Great  Grandmother's  Recipe  Modernized.) 
Two  quarts  finely  chopped  cold  boiled  beef,  4  quarts  chopped  apples, 
1  lb.  chopped  suet,  3  lbs.  each  raisins  and  cleaned  currants,  I  lb.  citron 
sliced  thin,  2  lbs.  light  brown  sugar,  1  qt.  syrup  from  sweet  pickeled  peaches, 
(when  pickling  peaches  or  melon  put  up  a  quart  of  syrup  for  this  purpose), 
1  qt.  grape  juice  (grape  juice  put  up  when  grapes  are  partly  green),  1  pt. 
boiled  cider,  zest  and  juice  of  six  lemons  (before  cutting  soften  the  rind  by 
boiling  in  a  little  sugar  and  water  and  then  measure  your  cup  full),  1  table- 
spoon each  of  ground  nutmeg,  cinnamon,  and  mace  and  two  tablespoons  of 
salt.  Mix  thoroughly  and  let  simmer  fifteen  minutes.  Seal  in  fruit  jars. 
This  material  will  keep  indefinitely  without  spoiling  and  is  of  delicious  flavor. 
This  quantity  will  fill  nine  to  ten  quart  jars. — Mrs.  M.  L.  Fuller. 


LEMON  PIE. 
Grated  rind  and  juice  of  one  lemon,  1  scant  cup  sugar,  1  tablespoon 
flour,  2  egg  yolks,  1  cup  hot  water,  butter  size  of  walnut.  Mix  lemon, 
sugar,  egg,  water,  flour  should  be  worked  into  melted  butter,  then  added 
to  mixture.  Cook  in  double  boiler.  Pour  into  crust  and  bake.  Beat  whites 
of  eggs  for  top. — Clara  McBroom. 


LEMON  PIE. 

Grate  very  lightly  rind  of  a  lemon  and  add  to  juice  of  the  lemon,  also 
add  one  cup  sugar,  3  egg  yolks,  small  piece  of  butter,  6  tablespoons  sweet 
milk,  3  heaping  teaspoons  corn  starch.  Beat  all  together  and  bake  in  a 
crust.  Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  with  3  tablespoons  sugar.  Put  on  pie 
when  done  and  brown  in  oven. — Mrs.  Chas.  E.  Hull. 


140  PEORIA  WOMEN'S  COOK  BOOK 

NUT  MINCE  PIE. 

1  cup  walnuts,  1   teaspoon  cinnamon, 

2  cups  apples,  pared  and  cut,  1  teaspoon  allspice, 
Yl  cup  vinegar,  Yl  teaspoon  cloves, 
Yl  cup  fruit  juice  or  water,                     Yl  teaspoon  salt, 

1  Yl  cups  sugar,  1    cup  raisins. 

Cut  nuts  with  meat  chopper.     Thoroughly  mix  all  the  ingredients  to- 
gether.    Enough  for  two  pies. — Mrs.  Arthur  Traeger. 


BUTTER  PIE. 
1    egg,  2  cups  flour, 

1   cup  sugar,  1   cup  milk, 

3  tablespoons  melted  butter,  Nutmeg. 

Put  mixture  in  pie,  melted  butter  on  top. — Marie  Huff,  Wabash,  Ind. 


BUTTERSCOTCH  PIE. 
One  cup  brown  sugar,   Ya   cup  butter,  cook  with  little  water  until 
thick.     Yolks  2  eggs,   1   tablespoon  flour,  and  1   cup  milk  mixed  together. 
Let  all  cook  until  thick,  then  pour  into  baked  crust  and  put  the  beaten  whites 
of  the  eggs  on  top.     Brown  in  oven. — Mrs.  W.  D.  Hopkins. 


CHOCOLATE  PIE. 
Yl  cup  sugar,  1   teaspoon  vanilla, 

Yl  cup  grated  chocolate,  2  eggs, 

2'/2  tablespoons  corn  starch,  2  tablespoons  butter. 

I   cup  boiling  water, 

Mix  sugar,  corn  starch  and  chocolate.  Pour  on  boiling  water  grad- 
ually and  cook  five  minutes.  Stir  constantly.  Add  the  beaten  yolks  and 
cook  two  minutes  at  low  temperature.  Add  butter  and  vanilla.  Pour  into 
baked  shell.  Cover  with  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  eggs  to  which  add 
two  tablespoons  of  powdered  sugar  and  a  few  drops  of  vanilla.  Place  in 
oven  and  bake  until  light  brown. — Clara  Hamer. 


COCOANUT  PIE. 
One  box  of  cocoanut,  3  eggs,  1  cup  sugar,  2  cups  sweet  milk,  I  table- 
spoon butter,  3  tablespoons  flour.     This  makes  2  pies. 

Mrs.  Otto  Hervig. 


PEORIA  WOMEN'S  COOK  BOOK  141 

CARAMEL  PIE. 

1  cup  light  brown  sugar,  2  yolks  of  eggs, 

1  cup  milk,  1  teaspoon  vanilla, 

2  tablespoons  butter,  Pinch  salt. 
2  tablespoons  corn  starch, 

Mix  corn  starch,  salt  and  sugar.  Pour  over  it  scalding  milk  and  cook 
a  few  minutes.  Then  add  the  beaten  yolks,  first  taking  the  sauce  pan  from 
the  fire.  Return  to  the  fire,  using  an  asbestos  mat  and  stirring  constantly 
until  it  thickens.  Just  before  taking  from  the  fire  add  butter  and  vanilla. 
Bake  pie  crust  and  pour  in  custard.  Cover  with  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of 
two  eggs  and  brown. — Mrs.  Arthur  Wilson. 


CUSTARD  PIE. 
Three  eggs,  save  whites  of  2  for  the  top,  3  tablespoons  sugar,  2Yl 
cups  whole  milk.     Nutmeg  or  any  desired  flavoring.     Beat  eggs,  add  milk 
and  sugar  last.     Stir  thoroughly  and  pour  in  a  raw  crust.      Bake  slowly 
until  it  quivers  if  shaken  lightly. — Mrs.  John  E.  Keene. 


CHERRY  PIE. 
Line  a  pie  pan  with  some  rich  pie  crust,  do  not  roll  too  thin,  fill  with 
sweetened  canned  or  ripe  fresh  cherries,  cover  this  with  cake  dough.     Bake 
in  moderate  oven,  when  done  cover  with  boiled  iceing. 

Mrs.  A.  N.  Hughes. 


AMBER  PIE. 
Filling:  1  cup  sugar,  1  teaspoon  flour,  Yl  teaspoon  cinnamon,  Yl 
teaspoon  cloves.  Mix  well  and  add  1  tablespoon  vinegar,  1  cup  sour  milk, 
1  cup  raisins,  2  yolks  eggs,  and  1  tablespoon  butter.  Carefully  cook  all 
until  thick,  stirring  constantly.  Put  in  baked  crust  and  spread  the  beaten 
whites  of  two  eggs  on  top  and  brown. — Mrs.  C.  R.  Brewer. 


FRENCH  PIE. 
Fill  buttered  baking  dish  with  fruit  and  pour  over  top  following  batter: 
1  teaspoon  butter,  1  egg,  1  cup  flour,  Yl  CUP  sugar,  Yl  CUP  sweet  milk, 
\  teaspoon  baking  powder.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  and  serve  with  cream, 
or  liquid  sauce.  (Apples  or  peaches  may  be  used. )  Sauce  for  pie:  1  cup 
sugar,  1  teaspoon  com  starch,  Yl  CUP  water,  Yl  CUP  milk.  Cook  together 
until  it  thickens,  then  fold  into  it  white  of  1   egg  beaten. 

Mrs.  Will  Rose.  Warren,  Ohio. 


142  PEORIA  WOMEN'S  COOK  BOOK 

CREAM  PIE. 
Scald  one  quart  milk,  yolks  of  3  eggs,  well  beaten,  Yl  CUP  °f  sugar, 
small  lump  of  butter,    1  Yl  tablespoons  of  corn  starch  dissolved  in  a  little 
cold  milk.     Stir  into  the  boiling  milk  and  flavor  to  suit  taste.     Whites  for  top 
sweetened  to  suit  taste  and  beaten  stiff. — Mrs.  Winslow  Evans. 


BOSTON  CREAM  PIE.     (Cake.) 

1  cup  of  granulated  sugar,  Yl  CUP  °f  butter, 
Yl  cup  of  sweet  milk,                              Whites  of  3  eggs, 

2  cups  of  flour,  2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder. 

Bake  in  round  tins.      Make  custard  of  corn  starch,  using  egg  yolks 
spread  between  the  layers. — Mrs.  Oscar  Schaefer. 


SOUR  CREAM  PIE. 
1   cup  of  sour  cream,  Yl  CUP  °f  seeded  raisins, 

1   teaspoon  of  cinnamon,  1    cup  of  sugar, 

Ya  teaspoon  of  cloves,  3  eggs. 

Use  white  of  one  egg  only,  other  two  for  frosting,  put  in  crust  and 
brown  in  oven. — Mrs.  R.  U.  Tyson. 


MARTHA  WASHINGTON  PIE. 
Line  a  three  inch  granite  pie  pan  with  pie  dough,  made  in  the  usual 
way.  Cover  bottom  with  3  tablespoons  sugar.  Place  a  layer  of  cooked 
apples  or  peaches  one  inch  deep;  sweeten  according  to  fruit;  cover  with 
pie  crust.  Place  a  layer  of  cherries,  previously  sweetened,  one  inch  deep, 
cover  with  crust,  making  a  shell  about  one  inch  deep.  Place  in  oven  and 
bake  slowly  until  done.  Remove  from  oven  and  fill  with  a  lemon  custard 
as  for  lemon  pie,  (previously  cooked  and  chilled.)  Cover  the  whole  with  a 
meringue  made  with  the  whites  of  three  eggs.  Brown  slightly  in  oven  and 
when  thoroughly  chilled,  serve.      Delicious  for  luncheon. 

Mrs.  Milton  L.  Ducker. 


RAISIN  PIE. 
Chop  1  cup  raisins,  add  1  cup  hot  water  and  boil  three  minutes.   Then 
add  1  cup  of  sugar  which  has  been  mixed  with  1  tablespoon  of  corn  starch. 
After  taking  from  fire,  add   1    egg,  juice  of  1   lemon  and  a  pinch  of  salt. 
Bake  between  2  crusts. — Mrs.  W.  C.  Tobias. 


PEORIA  WOMEN'S  COOK  BOOK  143 

DATE  PIE. 
One  lb.  dates,  3  eggs,  2  cups  milk,  1  cup  sugar,  1  teaspoon  cinnamon. 
Soak  dates  in  warm  water  over  night,   then  stew   and  put  through   wire 
strainer.     Into  the  pulp  stir  beaten  eggs,  cinnamon,  milk  and  sugar.     Bake 
in  one  crust. — Mrs.  G.  F.  Atkinson. 


BANANA  PIE. 
24  cup  sugar,  2  teaspoons  butter, 

2  teaspoons  flour,  1    cup  boiling  water. 

Salt, 

Mix  flour,  sugar  and  salt.  Add  boiling  water,  cook  until  thickens,  add 
butter.  Bake  crust.  Slice  bananas  in  crust  and  when  cool,  pour  mixture 
over  bananas.     Make  meringue  from  white  of  1   egg  and  powdered  sugar. 

Mrs.  J.  S.  Miller. 


A  NEW  APPLE  PIE. 
Make  an  open  apple  pie,  when  cool  and  ready  to  serve  cover  with 
stiff  whipped  cream.      Then  put  2  Neuchatel  cheeses  through  the  potato 
ricer  and  sprinkle  over  the  cream.      This  is  delicious  and  pretty. 

Mrs.  Blanch  Ottenheimer. 


PUMPKIN  PIE. 

1  cup  sifted  flour,  1   tablespoon  cinnamon, 
3   generous  tablespoons  water,  1    tablespoon  flour, 

2  generous  tablespoons  lard.  1   tablespoon  New  Orleans  molasses, 
Roll  out  and  line  pie  pans.                     Yl  cup  sugar, 

Filling:  2  cups  milk, 

2  cups  stewed  pumpkin,  1    tablespoon  ginger, 

3  eggs,  1    tablespoon  melted  butter. 

A  hint  of  nutmeg,  allspice  and  cloves.  Mix  sugar,  spices,  flour,  then 
add  the  beaten  yolks  with  the  milk.  Beat  white  stiff  and  fold  in  last.  This 
makes  two  large  pies. — Clara  Rose. 


PUMPKIN  PIE. 

To  one  cup  of  custard  pumpkin,  (canned  pumpkin)  add  one  cup  of 
dark  brown  sugar,  1  tablespoon  butter,  Yl  teaspoonful  each  of  ginger  and 
cinnamon,  Yl  teaspoonful  nutmeg,  salt  and  cook  five  minutes.  Remove 
from  fire  and  add  two  eggs  slightly  beaten  and  mixed  with  two-thirds  cup  of 
milk.     Strain  the  mixture  and  pour  into  crust. — Mrs.  H.  R.  Shofe. 


FAV  O 


Rl  TE 


TUWi* 


The  Household  Delight  makes 
things  clean  and  bright. 
Always  serves  you  right,  drives 
the  dirt  from  the  clothes,  makes 
the  hardest  water  soft  as  velvet. 
The  most  effective  cleaner  with- 
out injury  to  the  finest  fabric  or 
effecting  the  tenderest  skin. 

SOLD  BY  ALL  GROCERS 

Gruensfelder  Bros.  Product  Co. 

PEORIA,  ILLINOIS 


PICKLES,  PRESERVES  AND 
CANNED  GOODS 

A  exquisite  and  poignant  sauce  for  which  I'll  say  unto   my    cook, 
"There's  gold,  go  forth  and  be  a  knight!"— Ben  Johnson. 


CANNING. 

To  can  fruit,  one-fourth  to  one-third  is  the  most  common  quantity  of 
sugar  used.  In  jelly  making  three-fourths  to  equal  parts  may  be  required, 
according  to  the  acidity  of  the  fruit. 

To  keep  juice  from  spoiling,  use  new  rubbers,  sterilize  all  jars,  covers, 
rubbers,  spoons,  etc.,  and  cover  all  jars  while  contents  are  still  boiling  hot. 

Canned  fruits  are  richer  if  cooked  in  a  syrup  instead  of  in  water, 
to  which  sugar  is  added  to  form  a  syrup  after  the  fruit  is  cooked. 


TO  CAN  PINEAPPLE. 
Make  thin  syrup  of  1   quart  water  to  1  Yl  pounds  granulated  sugar. 
Cook  6  pounds  of  fruit  to  this  amount  until  fruit  is  tender.  Can  while  hot. 

Marie  Huff,  Wabash,  Indiana. 


CANNED  CORN. 
Eleven  cups  corn,  1  cup  salt,  1  cup  granulated  sugar;  mix  thoroughly 
and  heat  gradually.  Boil  20  minutes,  pack  in  jars  and  seal  while  hot.  To 
cook  cover  with  cold  water,  boil  a  few  minutes,  pour  off  water  and  cover 
well  again  with  water  and  boil  30  minutes.  Drain  and  season  to  taste 
with  butter  and  cream. — Mrs.  A.  E.  Giles. 


BLACKBERRY  JELLY. 
Wash,  put  berries  in  a  kettle,  mash,  add  just  a  little  water,  boil  up 
thoroughly  and  strain.      Measure  and  boil  hard  one-half  hour,  skim  well, 
then  add  equal  measure  of  heated  sugar.     Boil  up  (do  not  stir)  ;  pour  into 
glasses. — Mrs.  O.  P.  Westervelt. 

10 


146  PEORIA  WOMEN'S  COOK  BOOK 

CURRANT  JAM. 

Four  qts.  ripe  currants,  1  lb.  seeded  raisins,  rind  of  I  Yl  oranges, 
with  juice  of  3.  Put  through  meat  grinder,  add  4  qts.  sugar,  and  cook 
about  twenty  minutes. — Mrs.   Alonzo  Wookey. 


HEAVENLY  JAM. 
Five  lbs.  grapes,   3  large  oranges,  cut  in  small  pieces,    1    lb.  whole 
raisins,   1  Ya  c"ps  walnut  meats,  chopped,  4  lbs.  sugar.     Skin  grapes,  cook 
pulp  until  soft,  put  through  strainer,  add  skins  and  other  ingredients.     Boil 
20  to  25  minutes.     Pour  into  jars.     When  cool  cover  with  parafin. 

Mrs.  W.  E.  Shaw. 


STRAWBERRY  JAM. 
Wash,   drain,  and  mash  strawberries,   take  equal  measure  of  sugar, 
bring  to  a  boil,  boil  five  minutes,  no  longer,  seal  in  jars  or  in  jelly  glasses. 
This  has  the  color  and  taste  of  Sunshine  preserves,   and  much  easier  to 
make. — Mrs.  J.  R.  Pfander. 


APRICOT  MARMALADE. 
Soak  one  pound  dried  apricots  in  one  quart  of  water  over  night,  then 
cook  until  soft.     Put  through  colander  and  add  one-half  can  (No.  2)  pine- 
apple and  one  cup  of  nut  meats. — Mrs.  C.  W.  Colby. 


ORANGE  MARMALADE. 

6  large  naval  oranges,  2  lemons. 

1    grape  fruit, 

Peal  fruit  carefully,  being  very  careful  to  remove  all  white  part  from 
orange  rinds  only.  Cut  all  the  rinds  in  narrow  strips  with  scissors.  Cut  the 
pulp  fine  and  add  cut  rinds  to  six  quarts  cold  water;  cover  and  let  stand  over 
night,  in  the  morning  put  on  stove  and  cook  down  to  one-half  the  quantity, 
then  add  three  scant  quarts  granulated  sugar,  cook  until  juice  like  jelly. 

Mrs.  Wm.  Hawley  Smith. 


PEORIA  WOMEN'S  COOK  BOOK  147 

GRAPE  MARMALADE. 
Pick  over,  wash,  drain  and  remove  stems  from  grapes,  separate  pulp 
from  skins.  Put  pulp  in  preserving  kettle.  Heat  to  boiling  point,  and  cook 
slowly  until  seeds  separate  from  the  pulp,  then  rub  through  a  hair  sieve. 
Return  to  kettle  with  skins,  add  an  equal  measure  of  sugar,  and  cook  slowly 
thirty  minutes,  stirring  ocassionally  to  prevent  burning.  Put  in  stone  jars 
or  tumblers.  This  is  excellent,  if  cooked  only  the  length  of  time  men- 
tioned.— Mrs.  J.   R.   Pfander. 


PEAR  HONEY. 
Use  hard  pears.     Pare  and  grate  to  the  core.     To  3  large  pears  or 
4  medium  sized,  use   1    pint  cold  water,  2  lb  granulated  sugar.     Boil  all 
together  for   1  j/4   hours  or  until  it  will  drop  from  the  spoon  like  honey. 
Skim  occasionally  while  boiling.     It  is  delicious  with  hot  cakes. 

Mrs.  J.  H.  Lamand,  Danvers,  111. 


QUINCE  HONEY. 

5   large  quinces,  I   pt.  of  water. 

5  lbs.  of  sugar, 

Grind  quinces   (peeling  also)   in  meat  grinder,  add  sugar  and  water 
and  cook  one-half  hour. — Mrs.  C.  U.  Collins. 


FIG  CONSERVE. 

3  lbs.  figs,  2  cups  sugar, 

1   orange,  1    grape  fruit, 

V4  lemon,  '/2  cup  raisins,  (cut). 

Yl  cup  ground  walnuts, 

Peel  and  cut  figs  in  halves.  Peel  and  cut  grape  fruit,  lemon  and 
orange  into  small  pieces.  Add  sugar.  Cook  for  30  minutes.  Then  add 
raisins  and  nuts  and  cook  about  ten  minutes  longer. 

Mrs.  T.  E.  Hughes,  Los  Angeles,  Calif. 


148  PEORIA  WOMEN'S  COOK  BOOK 

CURRANT  CONSERVE. 
Juice  of  5  lbs.  of  currants,  1   lb.  seeded  raisins, 

1   qt.  red  raspberries,  2  oranges  chopped  moderately  fine. 

5  lbs.  granulated  sugar, 

Do  not  boil  more  than  hour,  and  put  away  as  jam. 

Mrs.  Franklin  S.  Davis. 


PLUM  CONSERVE. 
Three  quarts  California  blue  plums,    Ya   B>>   pecans,    Yl   lb-   seeded 
raisins,  juice  of  3  oranges,  rind  of  2,   1   pint  water.     Continue  boiling  20 
minutes  after  it  begins  to  boil. — Mrs.  O.  P.  Westervelt. 


PEACH  PRESERVES. 
Use  yellow  peaches,  fine  and  large.  Cut  the  fruit  up  into  small 
pieces  and  use  pint  for  pint  of  granulated  sugar.  Pour  the  sugar  over  the 
fruit  and  allow  it  to  stand  until  the  juices  form  and  it  can  be  stirred 
thoroughly.  Then  cook  until  it  thickens.  Usually  25  minutes  cooking  is 
sufficient. — Mrs.  O.   P.   Westervelt. 


SPICED  GRAPES. 
5  lbs.  seeded  grapes,  Yl  teaspoon  cloves, 

3  lbs.  sugar,  Yl  CUP  vinegar. 

1   teaspoon  cinnamon, 

Boil  grapes  and  sugar  until  juice  jells.     Add  cinnamon,  cloves  and 
vinegar.     Let  boil  a  few  minutes.     Seal  as  for  preserves. 

Mrs.  A.  R.  McLaughlin. 


LEMON  BUTTER. 
Grate  rind  and  juice  of  1   lemon,  1   cup  sugar,  3  eggs,  butter  size  of 
walnut.     Beat  eggs,  sugar  and  butter,  add  lemon,  cook  until  thick,  stirring 
constantly. — Mrs.  Annie  E.  Pearce,  Gibson  City,  111. 


PEORIA  WOMEN'S  COOK  BOOK  149 

CHOW  CHOW. 
One  qt.  or  more  of  small  onions  soaked  in  strong  salt  water  over  night, 
1  qt.  or  more  of  green  tomatoes  put  in  weakened  vinegar,  add  enough  salt 
to  season  through  and  a  little  sugar,  put  on  stove  and  heat  through,  set 
off,  let  stand  over  night,  next  day  drain.  Cook  2  heads  of  cauliflower  until 
tender  (not  soft),  (use  part  of  cabbage,  if  can't  get  cauliflower),  add  2 
qts.  small  cucumber  pickles  and  2  green  pepper  pods,  add  all  above  together, 
strain  vinegar  off  of  cucumber  pickles  and  use  water  off  of  cauliflower,  heat 
through,  drain  in  colander.  Over  this  pour  dressing  which  has  been  cooked, 
then  seal.  Dressing:  2  cups  flour,  2  tablespoons  ground  mustard,  1  level 
teaspoon  tumerick,  2  cups  sugar.  Stir  together  so  flour  won't  lump.  Put  in 
8  cups  of  vinegar,  let  come  to  a  boil,  stir  in  mixture,  cook  until  thick. 

Mrs.  Chas.  Lincoln,  Bushnell,  111. 


GREEN  TOMATO  AND  ONION  PICKLE. 
1    pk.  green  tomatoes,  1  qt.  scant  of  little  onions, 

4  red  peppers,  4  green  peppers. 

Chop  tomatoes  and  onions  and  stand  in  salt  24  hours,  drain,  cover 
with  vinegar,  add  chopped  peppers,  cook. — Mrs.  L.  C.  Hinckle. 


OLIVE  OIL  CUCUMBER  PICKLES. 
1 8  cucumbers,  1   oz.  black  mustard  seed,  } 

Yl  cup  salt,  1    tablespoon  celery  seed, 

3  medium  sized  white  onions,  1   cup  olive  oil. 

1  oz.  white  mustard  seed, 

Slice  the  cucumbers  thin,  and  sprinkel  with  the  salt,  let  stand  three 
hours,  mix  other  ingredients  and  pour  over  pickles  and  onions  chopped  fine- 
cover  with  cold  vinegar. — Isabella  C.  Ayres. 


CHILLI  SAUCE. 

1  gallon  ripe  tomatoes  chopped  fine,  6  green  peppers,  chopped, 
6  good  size  onions,  1  tablespoon  black  pepper, 
3  tablespoons  salt,                                    1   tablespoon  cloves, 

2  tablespoons  cinnamon,  1  Yl   CUP  brown  sugar, 
1    tablespoon  allspice,                               1  pint  vinegar. 

Mix  well  and  cook  slowly  3  hours  or  until  thickened. 

Mrs.  S.  N.  Skeen. 


150  PEORIA  WOMEN'S  COOK  BOOK 

GREEN  TOMATO  PICKLE. 
1   lb.  brown  sugar,  1    oz.  celery  seed, 

1  pk.   green  tomatoes,  Yl  oz-  black  pepper, 

2  oz.  white  mustard  seed,  6  or  8  green  peppers,  chopped, 
Yl  oz.  ground  cloves,                               6  or  8  onions. 

Yl   oz.  allspice, 

Slice  tomatoes  very  thin,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  let  stand  for  twenty- 
four  hours.  Drain  off  the  juice  and  add  other  ingredients.  Put  in  kettle 
and  cover  with  vinegar  and  cook  until  tender.  Seal  while  hot.  A  little 
chopped  red  pepper  makes  it  more  attractive. — Miss  Katherine  Bailey. 


TOMATO  CATSUP. 

Yl  bu.  tomatoes,  2  onions, 

2  quarts  vinegar,  2  tablespoons  ground  cloves, 

1   scant  cup  salt,  2  tablespoons  ground  mace, 

1    tablespoon  black  pepper,  3  cups  sugar. 

J/2  teaspoon  red  pepper, 

Skin  tomatoes  and  boil  until  soft.  Skin  onions  and  chop  fine.     Boil 
all  together  about  three  hours. — Katherine  Bailey. 


TOMATO  CATSUP. 
1  pk.  tomatoes,  salt  to  taste,  2  oz.  allspice, 

J4  oz.  red  pepper,  J/2  lb.   brown  sugar, 

J/2  oz.  cloves.  Large  stalk  celery, 

4  large  onions.  Handful  peach  leaves, 

1  pt.  vinegar,  1    teaspoon  almond  extract, 

2  oz.  black  pepper,  1    tablespoon  horseradish. 

Put  spices  in  bag,  cook  onions,  tomatoes,  celery,  peach  leaves  together 
until  soft.     Put  through  sieve,  then  add  spices.     Cook  2  hours. 

Mrs.  Owen  M.  Jones. 


CORN  SALAD. 

1  8  large  ears  of  sweet  corn,  1    head  cabbage, 

2  green  peppers,  3  red  peppers, 

4  large  onions,  1 J4  lbs.  brown  sugar, 

J4  lb.  ground  mustard,  2  teaspoons  mixed  spice,  in  a  bag, 

Salt  to  taste,  2  qts.  vinegar. 

Boil  30  minutes. — Mrs.  Meister. 


PEORIA  WOMEN'S  COOK  BOOK  151 

MUSTARD  PICKLES. 

1    qt.  small  cucumbers,  whole,  broken, 

1  qt.  green  tomatoes,  sliced,  1    qt.  large  cucumbers,  chopped, 

I   qt.  large  onions,  sliced,  1    qt.  small  onions,  whole,  or, 

1  large  cauliflower,  chopped  or  1    large  cabbage,  chopped. 

Make  a  brine  of  4  qts.  water  and  1  of  salt.  Pour  it  over  the  mixture 
and  let  stand  24  hours,  drain,  and  cook  till  tender  but  not  soft,  in  fresh 
water,  drain  again.  Mix  1  cup  flour,  6  tablespoonsful  ground  mustard,  1 
tablespoonful  tumeric  with  enough  cold  vinegar  to  make  a  soft  paste  and 
add  one  and  one-half  cups  sugar.  Put  it  into  2  qts.  of  hot  vinegar,  like 
making  milk  gravy,  then  mix  well  with  the  vegetables.  The  tumeric  gives 
it  a  clear  yellow  color,  otherwise  it  would  look  dark  and  muddy. 

Mrs.  T.  G.  Lowry. 


SPANISH  PICKLES. 
Two  dozen  large  green  cucumbers,  slice  Yi  in.  thick  and  let  stand  24 
hours  in  salt  water,  2  large  heads  cabbage,  chop  and  let  stand  2  hours  in 
salt  water.  2  dozen  chopped  onions,  2  dozen  chopped  green  peppers,  2  oz. 
white  mustard  seed,  1  oz.  celery  seed,  1  oz.  tumeric,  4  oz.  powdered 
English  mustard,  2  lbs.  light  brown  sugar,  1  gal  cider  vinegar.  Boil  until 
thick. — Mrs.  E.  T.  Zagelmeyer. 


WATERMELON  PICKLE. 
Pare  and  cut  in  pieces,  about  2  by  3  inches,  watermelon  rinds; 
cover  with  weak  alum  water,  poured  over  hot;  add  a  small  handful  of  salt; 
let  stand  24  hours,  then  soak  in  rain  water.  Put  in  kettle,  cover  with 
water  and  boil  until  tender,  then  drain  off  water.  Make  syrup  of  equal 
parts  of  sugar  and  vinegar,  add  cinnamon  and  cloves,  put  in  fruit  and  boil 
until  clear. — Mrs.  A.  E.  Giles. 


PICKLES. 
One  dozen  large  sour  cucumber  pickles  cut  in  meduim  slices  or  cubes 
1  teaspoon  celery  seed,  cover  with  2  cups  granulated  sugar.     Let  stand  24 
hours  and  serve. — Mrs.  M.  L.  Ducker. 


152  PEORIA  WOMEN'S  COOK  BOOK 

CELERY  RELISH. 
15  large  ripe  tomatoes,  5  white  onions, 

2  red  peppers,  sweet,  6  stalks  of  celery, 

3'/2  cups  of  vinegar,  2  tablespoons  of  salt. 

6  tablespoons  of  sugar, 

Chop  all  quite  fine,  tomatoes  separate,  boil  1  Yl  hours. 

Mrs.  W.  I.  Slemmons. 


PEPPER  HASH. 
36  green  peppers,  1 5  medium  sized  onions, 

12  red  peppers. 
Put  above  thru  food  chopper,  cover  with  boiling  water.     Allow  to 
stand  five  minutes  then  drain.     Then  cover  again  with  boiling  water  and 
drain.     Then  add  1  Yl  pints  of  vinegar,   1  Yl  CUPS  °f  sugar,  3  tablespoons 
salt.     Cook  all  together  1  5  minutes  and  seal  while  hot. 

Mrs.  P.  R.  McComas. 


TOMATO  PRESERVES. 
Scald  ripe  tomatoes.     Peel  and  remove  seeds.     Add  an  equal  amount 
of  sugar,  let  stand  over  night  with  a  weight  on  cover.      In  the  morning 
run  through  a  colander.     Boil  juice  until  right  thickness  for  preserves,  drop 
in  tomatoes  and  cook  until  they  are  done.     Place  in  glasses  or  jars. 

Mrs.  James  Ellis. 


TOMATO  SAUCE. 
Peel  thoroughly  ripe  tomatoes,  and  take  out  the  seeds.     Put  to  boil 
with  a  little  oil  or  butter,  onions,  salt,  pepper  and  spices.     Cook  thoroughly 
over  slow  fire  and  strain.     Will  keep. — Mrs.  C.  P.  Bourland. 


CHOPPED  PICKLES. 
1   peck  green  tomatoes,  2  quarts  ripe  tomatoes, 

3  heads  cabbage,  1  dozen  onions, 

6  green  peppers,  6  ripe  peppers. 

Chop  all  together,  salt  in  1  pint  salt  over  night.  Drain  well  in  the 
morning.  Add  1  teacup  grated  horseradish,  2  lbs.  sugar,  1  tablespoon 
each  white  mustard  seed,  cloves,  pepper,  celery  seed.  Cover  well  with 
vinegar  and  boil  1  hour. — Mrs.  J.  H.  Lamond,  Danvers,  111. 


PEORIA  WOMEN'S  COOK  BOOK 


153 


1  pk.  green  tomatoes, 
12  sour  cucumber  pickles,  small, 
3  bunches  of  celery, 
3  green  and  3  ripe  peppers, 
6  pts.  sugar, 

2  tablespoons  mustard, 
2  tablespoons  tumeric, 

Mix  and  cook  down. — Mrs 


DUTCH  PICKLE.     (Excellent.) 

2  large  heads  of  cabbage, 

2  large  heads  of  cauliflower, 

2  qts.  small  onions, 

1  gal.  vinegar, 

1  cup  of  salt, 

1  pt.  flour. 


John  Smith,  Midland  City,  111. 


FRANKLIN  STEAD,   DIRECTOR 


H.    G.    GAMBER,   BUSINESS   MANAGER 


Peoria  Musical  College 


(INCORPORATED) 


DEPARTMENTS 

Piano,  Organ,  Voice,  Violin,  Violoncello,  Public  School    Music, 
Theory  of  Music  in  all  its  branches,  Normal  Training,  Chil- 
dren's  Department  (Faelten    System),   Expression 
and  Dramatic  Art,  Modern  Languages. 

Thorough   and   Systematic    Instruction   in    All   Branches   from 
beginning  to  completion  of  Courses. 

The  College  Solicits  Your  Investigation.  Catalog  Sent  on  Request. 

For  full  particulars  concerning  faculty,  courses,  rates  of  tuition,  address 

PEORIA  MUSICAL  COLLEGE 

Corner  Madison  Ave.  and  Fayette  St. 

Telephone  Main  4604  PEORIA,  ILLINOIS 


CANDIES 


PLAIN  FONDANT. 
Beat  the  white  of  an  egg  very  stiff.     Put  in  this  Yl  teaspoon  vanilla. 
Add  enough  powdered  sugar  to  make  a  stiff  dough.     This  may  be  used 
many  different  ways. — Frances  K.  Stowell. 


FUDGE. 
3  cups  sugar,  1   tablespoonful  butter, 

1   cup  milk,  4  tablespoonsful  cocoa. 

Mix  sugar  and  cocoa  together,  add  milk  and  butter  and  boil  fifteen 
minutes.  Take  from  fire,  add  1  teaspoonful  vanilla,  stir  until  creamy,  pour 
on  buttered  plates,  and  cut  into  squares. — Mrs.  Merrill  I.  Schnebly. 


CHOCOLATE  FUDGE. 
Four  cups  light  brown  sugar,  1  cup  nuts,  1  Yl  squares  Baker's  choco- 
late, butter  size  of  an  egg,  cream  enough  to  melt.     Cook  to  soft  ball  stage, 
beat  thoroughly.     Add  nuts  just  before  ready  to  pour  out. 

Mrs.  G.  W.  Wray. 


COCOANUT  FUDGE. 
2  cups  brown  sugar,  Yl  CUP  milk, 

1    heaping  tablespoon  butter,  Yl  teaspoon  of  vanilla. 

1  cup  of  shredded  cocoanut, 

Put  sugar  and  milk  over  fire  until  boiling  point  is  reached,  add  butter 
and  cook  until  it  nearly  strings.  Take  from  fire,  add  flavoring  and  cocoanut 
and  stir  it  until  it  thickens.  Pour  into  buttered  tins,  cool  and  cut  in 
squares. — Mrs.  Hugh  Gibbs. 


TAFFY. 
Four  cups  sugar,  1  Yl  CUPS  h°t  water.     When  boiling  add  just  a  pinch 
of  cream  of  tartar  dissolved  in  cold  water.     Do  not  stir  or  shake  more  than 
necessary.      Boil   until   it   gets   brittle  in   cold   water.      Flavor  with   rose. 
Pour  into  a  buttered  pan  to  cool,  then  pull  until  white. 

Frances  K.  Stowell. 


156  PEORIA  WOMEN'S  COOK  BOOK 

DIVINITY  CANDY. 
2  cups  granulated  sugar,  Yl  cup  water. 

24  cup  corn  syrup, 

Boil  until  it  makes  a  hard  ball  in  cold  water.  Stir  in  the  beaten  whites 
of  two  eggs.  Beat  until  stiff.  Vanilla  and  a  big  cup  of  nuts  and  candied 
fruit. — Mrs.  I.  J.  Stanley. 


PENOCHE. 
4  cups  of  sugar,  ,        1   cup  nuts, 

1  Yl  cups  cream,  1   teaspoon  vanilla. 

Boil  sugar  and  cream,  stirring  constantly  until  the  bottom  of  the  pan 
can  be  plainly  seen  when  stirred  quickly.  When  done  add  nuts  and  vanilla. 
Beat  until  it  turns  creamy,  then  pour  in  tins  to  cool. — Frances  K.  Stowell. 


CRACKER-JACK. 
2  cups  sugar,  1    teaspoon  salt, 

1   cup  New  Orleans  molasses,  1    tablespoon  butter. 

Yl  cup  glucose, 

Boil  until  brittle  when  dropped  into  cold  water,  pour  one  heaping 
gallon  popped  pop  corn  into  the  mixture  and  spread  on  board. 

Mrs.  W.  C.  Tibbetts. 


CRYSTALIZED  POPCORN. 
1    cup  sugar,  Yl  cup  butter,   (scant). 

Yi  cup  boiling  water,  1    teaspoon  salt. 

Boil  until  it  hardens.     Pour  over  popcorn  and  stir  rapidly  until  each 
grain  separates. — Frances  Stowell. 


DOLLY'S  DELIGHT. 
2  cups  white  sugar,  Whites  of  two  eggs, 

Yl  cup  table  syrup,  Yl  cup  of  dates  and  nuts. 

Yl  cup  water, 

Mix  sugar,  water  and  syrup  thoroughly  and  cook  slowly  until  it  hardens 
in  water.  While  hot  pour  over  the  eggs  slowly  and  stir  until  thick.  Add  nuts 
and  dates  and  beat  until  it  begins  to  set.  Pour  into  a  buttered  pan  and 
cut  in  squares  when  cool. — Frances  Stowell. 


PEORIA  WOMEN'S  COOK  BOOK  157 

CARAMAL  NOUGAT. 
Four  cups  brown  sugar,  1  pt.  cream,  1  cup  nuts.     Stin  well. 

Mrs.  F.  C.  Stewart. 


BAKED  PEANUT  CANDY. 
Shell  and  remove  skins  from  one  quart  roasted  peanuts.  Put  through 
meat  grinder,  beat  white  of  one  egg  stiff,  and  add  gradually  one  cup  of 
sifted  brown  sugar.  One-fourth  teaspoon  salt,  one-half  teaspoon  vanilla 
and  nut  meats.  Spread  on  well  buttered  shallow  pans.  Bake  in  moderate 
oven  fifteen  minutes. — Laura  Holland. 


NOUGAT  SQUARES. 
Two  heaping  tablespoon  chopped  lemon  peel,  2  heaping  tablespoons 
chopped  orange  peel,   2  heaping  tablespoons  chopped  preserved  cherries, 

2  heaping  tablespoons  chopped  sultana  raisins,  2  heaping  tablespoons  chop- 
ped dates,  1  egg  white,  1  teaspoon  flavoring,  1  tablespoon  cold  water, 
and  enough  confectioner's  sugar  for  smooth  paste.     Add  fruits,  let  stand 

3  hours,  brush  over  with  melted  chocolate,  cut  in  squares. 

Mrs.  F.  H.  Putnam. 


VANILLA  CREAM  CANDY. 

4  cups  granulated  sugar,  Butter  size  of  an  egg, 

Two-thirds  cup  water,  1    tablespoonful  glycerine, 

One-third  cup  vinegar,  2  tablespoonsful  vanilla. 

Boil  without  stirring  twenty  minutes,  or  until  crisp  when  tried  in  cold 
water.  Pour  into  buttered  dish  and  add  vanilla.  When  cool,  pull  until 
white  and  cut  with  shears. — Mrs.  Merrill  Schnebly. 


DAKOTA  CARAMALS. 
2  cups  brown  sugar,  One-third  cup   butter, 

1   cup  New  Orleans  molasses,  1    cup  milk, 

%  cup  grated  chocolate,  I  cup  shelled  pecan  meats. 

Put  all  ingredients,  except  the  nuts,  into  a  large  sauce  pan,  cook  20 
minutes  over  a  gentle  heat  and  then  test;  if  it  forms  a  hard  ball  by  dropping 
a  little  of  the  mixture  into  cold  water,  remove  from  the  fire,  add  chopped 
nuts  and  pour  into  a  greased  tin.  Cut  into  squares  when  nearly  cold.  If 
cooked  until  real  thick  the  caramels  can  be  cracked  like  taffy. 

Mrs.  O.  P.  Westervelt. 


Rumf  ord 
THE  WHOLESOME 

BAKING  POWDER 


It  Is  essential  in  the  making  of 
raised  foods  that  you  choose  a 
leavener  that  not  only  raises  the 
cake,  biscuit'or  roll  just  right,  but 
also  adds  to  their  nutritive  value. 
Rumford  accomplishes  this  by  re- 
storing to  the  flour,  in  part,  the 
nutritious  phosphates  of  which 
fine  white  flour  has  been  deprived. 
It  will  make  your  cake  of  that 
even  texture,  flavor  and  appetiz- 
ing appearance  sought  for  by  all 
good  cooks.     Its  use  insures 

Successful  Home  Baking 


Home 

Savings  &  State 

Bank 

JEFFERSON  BLDG. 

would  appreciate  a  share  of 

YOUR 
ACCOUNT 

Jfc 

3%  Interest  on  Deposits. 
6%  Farm  Mortgages  for  sale. 
Safety  Deposit  Boxes  for  rent. 


The  Venard  Studio 

in  the  JOBST  BUILDING 
115  SOUTH  JEFFERSON  AVENUE 


Portraits  by  Photography 
and  in  Oil 


Telephone  Main 
5605 


OLD   PHONE  3914  AND    1551-1 


C.  S.  DILLON 

DEALER  IN 

Staple  and  Fancy  Groceries 

21  14  MAIN  STREET 

RESIDENCE  PHONE   1551-2  TRUNKS   HAULED 


PEORIA  WOMEN'S  COOK  BOOK  159 

FRENCH  NOUGAT. 
3  cups  sugar,  j/2  cup  water, 

Yl  cup  syrup,  Whites  2  eggs  beaten  stiff. 

Cook  sugar,  syrup  and  water  until  it  makes  a  soft  ball  in  water,  then 
pour  one-half  cup  this  mixture  into  beaten  whites  and  stir  rapidly;  cook 
the  rest  of  the  syrup  until  it  makes  a  hard  ball  when  dropped  in  water; 
pour  over  the  other  mixture,  stirring  constantly;  add  one  cup  nuts,  one  cup 
candied  cherries  cut  fine,  and  beat  until  spongy;  pour  in  buttered  deep  pan 
and  cut  in  slices  when  cool. — Mrs.  W.  C.  Tibbetts. 


NUT  BRITTLE. 
Melt   1    cup  granulated  sugar  in  a  thick  pan  without  water,  stirring 
all  the  time.      As  soon  as  all  is  melted,  pour  over  two-thirds  cup  of  any 
kind  of  nut  meats  in  a  shallow  pan.     When  cold,  break  tinto  pieces. 

Mrs.  W.  C.  Tobias. 


BUTTER  SCOTCH. 
Boil  together  one  cup  sugar,  J/4  cup  molasses,  2  tablespoons  boiling 
water,  1  teaspoon  vinegar,  Yl  CUP  butter  until  it  turns  brittle  when  tried 
in  cold  water.  Turn  into  a  well  buttered  pan  and  when  slightly  cool  mark 
with  a  sharp  pointed  knife  into  squares.  A  little  vanilla  may  be  added  if 
desired. — Frances  Stowell. 


SALTED  ALMONDS. 
To  blanch  almonds  cover  almonds  with  boiling  water,  let  stand  two 
minutes,  rub  off  skin,  dry  between  cheese  clothes.     Take  half  cup  of  olive  oil 
in  sauce  pan,  when  hot  add  almonds.     Fry  until  delicately  browned,  stirring 
constantly.     Remove  carefuly.     Drain  on  paper.     Sprinkle  with  salt. 

Laura   Holland. 


MARSHMALLOWS. 
One  cup  water,  2  cups  granulated  sugar,  2  tablespoons  granulated 
gelatine  dissolved  in  6  tablespoons  water,  1  teaspoon  flavoring.  Boil  sugar 
and  water  until  it  forms  a  stiff  ball  when  dropped  in  water.  Remove  from 
fire,  stir  in  gelatine,  and  beat  20  minutes.  Add  flavoring.  Pour  mixture 
in  a  buttered  pan  which  has  been  dredged  with  corn  starch.  When  hard, 
cut  in  squares  and  roll  in  powdered  sugar. — Mrs.  L.  C.  Moorehead. 


160  PEORIA  WOMEN'S  COOK  BOOK 

SALT  PEANUTS. 
Twenty-five  cents  raw  peanuts.     Blanch  and  put  in  pan.     Salt  gener- 
ously and  put  the  unbeaten  white  of  one  egg  over  them.     Put  in  oven  and 
stir  often  until  each  nut  is  nicely  browned. — Mrs.  J.  M.  Elliott. 


COCOANUT  CANDY. 
One  cocoanut,  2  cups  of  brown  sugar  and  1  cup  of  white  sugar,  Ya 
cup  of  milk.     Cut  up  fine  two-thirds  of  cocoanut,  grate  the  rest,  bring  milk 
and  sugar  to  a  boil,  add  cocoanut.     Boil  until  it  will  harden  when  dropped 
on  a  wet  board. — Mrs.  H.  S.  Stuntz. 


FIG  PASTE. 
1    lb.  raisins,  1    lb.  English  walnuts, 

1   lb.  figs,  Juice  of  lemon  or  orange. 

1   lb.  dates, 

Cut  fruit  and  nuts  into  small  pieces,  add  juice  and  mix  well  with 
powdered  sugar.     Roll  and  cut  in  squares. — Mrs.  Merrill  Schnebly. 


PARISIAN  SWEETS. 
One  pound  English  walnuts  in  shell  or  Yl  CUP  nut  rneats,  1  pound 
figs,  1  pound  dates,  (stoned),  juice  of  one  lemon.  Grind  nuts,  figs  and 
dates  through  chopper.  Add  lemon  juice.  Mix  thoroughly.  On  a  bak- 
ing board  sprinkle  powdered  sugar,  then  turn  out  mixture.  Sprinkle  with 
sugar  to  prevent  sticking.  Roll  to  Yl  'ncn  or  less  thickness.  Cut  in  squares 
Roll  squares  in  powdered  sugar. — Mrs.  R.  M.  Wrigley. 


SEA  FOAM. 
3  cups  light  brown  sugar,  1  tablespoon  vinegar. 

1   cup  water, 

Boil  unitl  it  forms  a  hard  ball  in  cold  water,  remove  from  fire,  and 
when  it  stops  bubbling  pour  into  the  beaten  whites  of  two  eggs;  beat  con- 
stantly until  it  holds  shape;  add  flavoring  and  one  cup  chopped  nut  meats. 

Mrs.  Charles  Todhunter. 


BEVERAGES 

Drink  you  to  her  that  each  loves  best.— Thomas  Campbell. 


FRUIT  BEVERAGE. 
1 2  lemons,  1   qt.  ripe  raspberries, 

2  Yl  lbs-  sugar,  1  pineapple. 

Peel  the  lemons  very  thin,  squeeze  the  juice  over  the  peel  and  let  stand 
two  hours,  then  add  one  pound  of  sugar;  mash  the  raspberries  with  one-half 
pound  of  sugar,  strain  the  lemon  juice  and  mash  the  raspberries  through  a 
coarse  sieve,  then  the  pineapple,  and  mix  all  together,  adding  three  quarts 
of  cold  water.  Stir  until  the  sugar  is  dissolved,  strain  and  serve  with  a 
little  of  the  fruit  in  each  glass. — Mrs.  I.  J.  Stanley. 


THE  PERFECTION  OF  LEMONADE. 
For  a  quart  take  the  juice  of  3  lemons  and  the  rind  of  one.  Peel 
the  rind  very  thin,  using  only  the  yellow  outside  cut  in  small  pieces  and  put 
with  the  juice  and  powdered  sugar,  of  which  use  2  oz.  to  the  qt.  in  a  jar 
with  cover.  When  the  water  is  at  boiling  point  pour  it  over  the  lemon  and 
sugar,  cover  and  let  get  cold. — Misses  S.  and  E.  Benton. 


COCOA. 

To  one  cup  of  milk  allow  1  teaspoon  of  cocoa,  and  three  of  sugar. 
Let  the  milk  almost  come  to  a  boil,  add  the  cocoa  and  sugar  which  has  been 
melted  into  a  cream  by  dipping  in  two  or  three  teaspoons  of  hot  milk.  Let 
come  to  a  boil.  A  small  lump  of  butter  and  a  little  vanilla  adds  to  the 
taste.  A  small  piece  of  marshmallow  is  good  served  on  the  top  of  each 
cup  of  cocoa  instead  of  whipped  cream. — Mrs.  M.  J.  Grieves. 


EXTRA  FINE  FRAPPE. 
Bring  to  the  boiling  point,  20  teacups  sugar,  Yl  gallon  water.     Ex- 
tract the  juice  of  5  dozen  lemons.     Cut  in  small  pieces  2  cans  pineapple. 
Add  five  gallons  water  and  any  fancy  fruit   desired.      This  recipe  will 
serve  100  people. — Mrs.  John  E.  Keene. 


162  PEORIA  WOMEN'S  COOK  BOOK 

COFFEE  FOR  SIX  PERSONS. 
Take  1  full  cup  ground  coffee,  1  egg,  a  little  cold  water,  stir  together, 
add  1  pint  boiling  water,  boil  up;  then  add  another  pint  boiling  water,  and 
set  back  to  settle  before  serving. 


TEA. 
Use  two  teaspoons  of  tea  to  a  pint  of  water.  Have  the  water  freshly 
boiling,  scald  the  teapot,  put  in  the  tea,  and  pour  on  boiling  water  in  the 
proportion  given.  Cover,  and  keep  in  a  warm  place,  but  where  the  tea  will 
not  boil,  for  three  to  five  minutes  to  draw.  If  it  cannot  be  used  at  once,  pour 
off  the  tea  and  discard  the  leaves.     An  earthen  teapot  is  preferable. 


ICED  TEA. 

Iced  tea  is  made  the  same  as  the  hot  beverage  and  may  be  prepared 
some  hours  before  using,  the  infusion  being  poured  off  the  leaves  as  soon 
as  the  strength  is  extracted,  then  cooled  and  placed  near  the  ice  until  required 
for  use;  or  the  tea  may  be  made  at  the  time  of  serving  and  chilled  by  the 
plentiful  addition  of  cracked  ice.  The  former  is  the  most  economical  method. 
Iced  tea  should  be  taken  clear  and  weaker  than  when  served  hot,  and  slices 
of  lemon  should  be  passed  with  it. 


CHOCOLATE. 
2  squares  chocolate,  Whipped  cream, 

2  teaspoons  sugar,  4  tablespoons  cold  water, 

3  cups  milk,  1  teaspoon  vanilla  if  desired. 

Put  chocolate  into  a  sauce  pan  or  the  inner  part  of  a  double  boiler 
with  the  water  and  sugar;  cook  over  a  gentle  heat  until  the  chocolate  is 
melted,  add  the  milk  gradually  and  bring  to  the  boiling  point.  Beat  until 
foamy,  flavor  with  vanilla  if  liked  and  serve  with  a  spoonful  of  whipped 
cream  on  top  of  each  cup. — Mrs.  O.  P.  Westervelt. 


DELICIOUS  FRUIT  PUNCH. 
Sweeten  juice  of  eight  lemons  and  put  in  orange  to  taste.  Just  before 
serving,  place  a  square  of  ice  in  a  punch  bowl  and  pour  over  it  sweetened 
juice,  then  add  two  quarts  Apollinaris  water  or  White  Rock  and  garnish 
with  a  bunch  of  grapes  laid  on  the  ice.  A  gill  of  raspberry  or  blackberry 
juice  left  over  from  canned  fruit  adds  a  beautiful  color  to  the  punch  as 
well  as  a  fine  flavor. — Mrs.  V.  P.  Westervelt. 


MISCELLANEOUS 

Cookery  is  become  an  art.     A  noble  science.  —Robert  Burton. 


SHREDDED  WHEAT  BISCUIT  FOR  BREAKFAST. 
Warm  the  biscuit  in  the  oven  to  restore  crispness,  don't  burn,  pour  hot 
milk  over  it,  dipping  the  milk  over  it  until  the  shreds  are  swollen;  then 
pour  a  little  cream  over  the  top  of  the  biscuit.     Or,  serve  with  cold  milk  or 
cream,  according  to  individual  taste. 


ANIMAL  CRACKERS  STANDING. 
A  favorite  luncheon  for  small  children  is  made  from  a  box  of  animal 
crackers,  one  of  saltines,  and  a  cup  of  pure  maple  syrup.  Boil  the  syrup 
until  it  forms  a  soft  ball  when  dropped  in  ice  water,  put  a  little  on  each 
saltine,  and  press  an  animal  into  this  in  a  standing  posture.  May  be  served 
with  milk.— Mrs.  W.  B.  Reed. 


DREAM  SANDWICHES. 
Cut  slices  of  brick  cheese  about  j/^   in  thick.      Put  slices  of  cheese 
between  two  slices  of  bread  and  season  the  cheese  with  salt  and  a  little 
cayenne,  then  place  sandwich  in  gas  range  and  let  remain  there  until  bread 
is  toasted  and  the  cheese  melted. — Mrs.  O.  P.  Westervelt. 


SANDWICH  FILLERS. 
Pork  chops  cooked  and  ground  and  mixed  with  ground  nuts  and  then 
add  mayonnaise.      Chopped  dates  seasoned  with  grated  lemon  peel  and 
cloves  or  cinnamon.     Sardines  made  to  a  paste  with  lemon  juice.     Cottage 
cheese  mixed  with  cut  olives. — Mrs.  H.  L.  Clark. 


SALAD  SANDWICHES. 
To  one  small  can  of  potted  ham  add  1    hard  boiled  egg,  three  sweet 
pickles  and  pimento,  which  have  been  minced  fine.     Mix  with  ham  and 
enough   salad   dressing   to   make   it  spread  easily.      Place  lettuce   leaf  just 
before  placing  the  top  piece  of  bread. — Mrs.  M.  J.  Grieves. 


164  PEORIA  WOMEN'S  COOK  BOOK 

EGG  SCHNITZELS,  PLAIN. 
Take  the  contents  of  an  eight  oz.  package  of  Egg  Schnitzels  "Those 
Good  Noodles;"  drop  them  in  two  quarts  of  boiling  water,  which  is 
seasoned  with  one  heaping  teaspoonful  of  salt;  boil  in  open  kettle  from 
1 0  to  15  minutes,  drain  in  colander,  shaking  the  water  out  thoroughly ; 
put  in  serving  dish  with  bread  crumbs  browned  in  butter  spread  over  them. 
(If  preferred,  onions  fried  in  butter  may  be  used  instead  of  bread  crumbs.) 

Mrs.  B.  C.  Koch,  Tremont,  111. 


RASPBERRY  SANDWICHES. 
Split  fresh  lady  fingers  and  spread  with  stiff  raspberry  jam.  Add 
powdered  sugar  to  whipped  cream,  beaten  stiff  and  run  over  top  of  each 
one  with  pastry  tube.  If  cream  is  not  sufficiently  stiff,  make  mixture  of 
whipped  cream  and  gelatine,  sweetened  and  flavored  slightly  with  vanilla. 
Allow  this  to  become  cold  and  use  in  pastry  tube.  For  afternoon  tea  or 
coffee. — Mrs.  S.  M.  Miller. 


DREAM  SANDWICHES. 
One-half  cup  pecans  chopped  fine,  one-half  cup  raisins  chopped  fine, 
1   large  apple  chopped  fine.     Add  juice  of  one-half  lemon  and  one  spoon- 
ful of  sugar.     Mix  thoroughly  and  spread  thinly  between  slices  of  buttered 
bread. — Flora  C.  Standlee. 


TEA  SANDWICH. 

Cut  brown  bread  in  fancy  shapes,  stars,  diamonds,  etc.  Spread  with 
a  layer  of  Philadelphia  cream  cheese  and  over  this  sprinkle  a  layer  of  finely 
chopped  peanuts.  Place  on  top  of  each  sandwich  a  cube  of  some  bright 
jelly. — Mrs.  J.  H.  Stephenson,  Danvers,  111. 


TOMATO  RAREBIT. 
Yl  cup  of  milk,  1  cup  of  strained  tomatoes, 

1  tablespoon  of  flour,  1   tablespoon  of  butter, 

1  teaspoon  of  mustard,  1  egg. 

1   cup  of  cheese,  grated, 

Make  a  sauce  of  the  flour  and  milk,  to  this  add  the  tomato  with  a 
little  soda,  then  the  cheese,  then  the  egg  beaten  slightly,  and  mustard,  salt 
and  pepper  to  taste,  and  sprinkle  with  paprika. — Mrs.  Roy  Kellar. 


PEORIA  WOMEN'S  COOK  BOOK  165 

WELSH  RAREBIT. 

I    tablespoon  butter,  Ya  teaspoon  salt, 

I   teaspoon  corn  starch,  Ya  teaspoon  mustard, 

Yl  cup  thin  cream,  Few  grains  cayenne, 

Yi  lb.  cream  cheese,  Toast  or  zephyrettes. 

Melt  butter,  add  corn  starch,  stir  until  well  mixed,  then  add  cream 
gradually  and  cook  two  minutes.  Add  cheese  and  stir  until  cheese  is  melted. 
Season  and  serve  on  zephyrettes  or  bread  toasted  on  one  side,  rarebit  being 
poured  over  untoasted  side. — Mrs.  Wm.  Stoltzman. 


PIGS  IN  THE  BLANKET. 
Salt  and  pepper  large  sized  oysters,  roll  each  one  in  a  slice  of  break- 
fast bacon  and  pin  with  tooth  picks.     Fryin  chafing  dish  until  brown. 

Mrs.  M.  J.  Grieves. 


SWEETBREADS  A  LA  BILL  EN  CHAFING  DISH. 
Four  veal  sweetbread  diced,  eight  good  sized  fresh  mushrooms,  three 
fresh  tomatoes  peeled.      Cut  in  small  squares  one  cup  chicken  broth,  let 
simmer  for  fifteen  minutes;  add  salt  and  pepper.     Serve  on  toast. 

One  of  the  World's  Famous  Chef?. 


POLISH  FOR  SILVERWARE. 
Put  half  of  a  small  cake  of  Ivory  soap,  shaved  fine,  and  a  quarter 
pound  of  whiting  into  one  quart  of  water.     Boil  until  dissolved.     Use  this 
paste  as  whiting  is  used,  then  polish  with  a  fine  cheese  cloth.     (Very  good.) 

Mrs.  Merrill  Schnebly. 


EXCELLENT  SOAP. 
Five  pounds  melted  grease,  1  can  of  Lewis  lye  poured  into  1  qt.  of 
water.  When  both  are  quite  cool,  pour  slowly  into  the  grease,  having 
previously  added  two-thirds  lbs.  of  borax  and  two-thirds  cup  of  ammonia, 
to  the  lye,  stir  well  ten  or  fifteen  minutes,  or  until  it  thickens  well,  pour  into 
mold  and  when  set  cut  into  squares. — Mrs.  C.  H.  Tanton. 


BAKING  POWDER. 
One   pound   cream    of   tartar,    5    cent   package    soda,    Yl    package 
corn  starch.     Sift  20  or  more  times.      Put  in  Mason  jars  or  eight  cans 
to  ripen  3  weeks. — Mrs.  Fred  H.  Putman. 


ESTABLISHED    1882  ESTABLISHED  1882 

W.  A.  HUSTON 

WHOLESALE   AND   RETAIL    DEALER    IN 

FRESH   FISH 


OF   ALL    KINDS 
Special  Attention  to  Advance  Orders  CITY  MARKET.     Both  Phones  Main  822 

Residence:  304  S.  Bourland  Ave.  PEORIA,  ILL. 

The  Merchants  National  Bank 
*  of  Peoria 

CAPITAL  AND  SURPLUS   $400,000,001 

Small  Accounts  Welcome 

3%  Interest  on  Certificates  of  Deposit  and  Savings  Accounts 


ijiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiltiiiiiiiiiniiniiuiiiiliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiniiiiiiM!iiu iiiimiimiimiimi 

=  *JIIHIIII  Hill  11111111111  llllllllllll II  llllllll  IIIUNIIIHIIKHI IIIIIIIHHM  llHllllllMINMIIIimi!  IK   = 

I  Don't  Swelter  | 
I  In.Your  Kitchen  | 

No  fatigue  nor  headaches 
while  cooking,  if  your  kitchen 
is  properly  ventilated. 
We  make  the  only  effective 
hood  for  carrying  away  the 
heat  and  fumes  from  your 
gas  range. 

Prices  on   application 

|  Becker's  Hardware  I 

Sheet  Metal  Work 
and  Furnaces 


I  1506  Main  St. 


Main   1807 
New   1868 


Pure  Fresh  Bottled 

Milk,  Skim  Milk 

and  Cream 


From  our  own  cows, 
delivered  to  your  house 
every  day.  Good  for 
the  baby.  What  is  good 
for  the  baby  is  good 
for  you. 

Jersey  Farm  Dairy 

C.  JOOS 

Phone  Bluffs  164,  R  2 


PEORIA  WOMEN'S  COOK  BOOK  167 

SPLENDID  HAND  LOTION. 
1    pint  soft  water,  I  Oc  worth  of  bay  rum, 

10c  worth  of  glycerine,  5c  worth  of  gum  tragacanth. 

Put  water  on  gum.     Let  stand  24  hours.     Add  bay  rum  and  glycer- 
ine.    Mix  well  and  put  in  bottles  or  cold  cream  jars. 

Mrs.  A.  R.   McLaughlin. 


In  making  meringue  add  J/2  teaspoon  baking  powder  to  2  whites  of 
eggs.  Add  before  beating.  Fewer  eggs  are  necessary,  and  it  will  hold 
up  the  meringue  so  much  longer. — Mrs.  Harriet  Houston. 


MARSHMALLOW  CREAM.  (Hand  Lotion). 
4  oz.  glycerine,  4  oz.  rose  water. 

4  oz.  alcohol, 

Dissolve  Ya  oz.  gum  tragacanth  in  1  quart  soft  water.     (Takes  about 
24  hours).     When  thoroughly  dissolved  add  other  ingredients. 

Mrs.  H.  B.  Huey,  Gibson  City,  Illinois. 


AN  EXCELLENT  WAY  TO  KEEP  LETTUCE. 
Wash   each   leaf  in   cold   water,   shake   water  off  and  place  in   an 
earthen  dish,  cover  and  keep  in  a  cool  place.     If  you  do  this  the  lettuce  is 
ready  for  any  meal  and  will  keep  several  days. — Mrs.  M.  J.  Grieves. 


TO  PEEL  TOMATOES  WITHOUT  SCALDING. 
With  the  back  of  a  paring  knife  rub  the  tomato  carefully  but  firmly, 
being  sure  to  cover  entire  surface.     Puncture  and  remove  the  thin  peeling. 

Mrs.  M.  J.  Grieves. 


WASHING  FLUID  OR  BLEACH. 
5c  salts  of  tartar,  Lewis  lye,  one  can, 

5  c  rock  of  ammonia,  1  gal.  of  boiling  soft  water. 

Use  two-thirds  of  a  cup  to  a  boiler  of  water  and  add  soap  as  usual. 
To  mix:  put  all  but  water  in  a  3  gal.  earthen  or  granite  jar  or  pail  and 
pour  hot  water  over  it.  Do  this  out  doors,  when  cool  put  in  mason  jars 
and  lay  lid  on  top,  no  rubbers. — Mrs.  Joseph  Ogle,  Lawson,  Neb. 


168  PEORIA  WOMEN'S  COOK  BOOK 

LIBRARY  PASTE. 
8  oz.  flour,  1   dram  oil  of  wintergreen  , 

Y*  oz.  powdered  alum,  1  Yl    pints  water. 

1  Yl  oz'  glycerine, 

Mix  water,  flour  and  alum  to  smooth  paste  and  boil  until  it  thickens. 
Do  not  let  it  burn  nor  cook  too  much.  Take  from  fire,  add  oil  and  glycer- 
ine. Mix  thoroughly.  Will  keep  a  year  if  kept  air  tight  in  a  self  sealing 
jar  when  not  in  use. — Mrs.  W.  C.  Tobias. 


PRESERVING  EGGS. 
Sterilize  a  big  stone  jar  and  make  a  solution  of  1 2  parts  boiled  water 
to   1    of  powdered  water  glass.     Select  only  fresh  clean  eggs.      Put  eggs 
in  solution,  cover  with  wooden  board  or  stone  jar  cover.     Keep  in  cool  dry 
place.     Eggs  may  be  added  at  any  time. 


In  grinding  bread  or  cracker  crumbs  put  a  paper  bag  on  the  grinder 
and  the  crumbs  are  not  scattered  about. 

To  heat  rolls,  place  in  paper  bag  and  put  in  oven.     They  will  be  as 
fresh  as  if  yftsX  baked. 


TIME  TABLE  FOR  COOKS 


Beef,  loin  or  ribs,  rare,  per  lb 8 

Same,  well  done,  per  lb 12 

Beef  ribs  rolled,  rare 12 

Same,  well  done 15 

Beef,   fillet,  rare    20 

Same,  well  done 60 

Mutton  leg,   rare,  per  pound 10 

Same,  well  done 14 

Lamb,  well  done,  per  pound t 15 

Veal,  well  done,  per  pound 18 

Pork,  well  done,  per  pound 20 

Chicken,  per  pound 15 

Turkey,  nine  pounds    3 

Goose,  nine  pounds    2Yl 

Duck,  domestic 1 

Duck,    wild    20 

Grouse 25 

Ham    4 

Fish,  3  or  4  pounds 45 

Small  fish  and  fillets    20 

Beans  with  pork 6 

Bread,  white  loaf 45 

Bread,  Graham  loaf 35 

Baking  powder  biscuit 12 

Gems 25 

Quick  doughs 8 

Cookies 8 

Gingerbread    20 

Sponge  cake 45 

Cake,    layer    20 

Cake,   loaf    40 

Fruit  cake 2 

Cake,  wedding 3 

Cakes,  small 15 

Batter  Puddings    35 

Pies    30 

Tarts    15 


to 

10 

minutes 

to 

16 

minutes 

to 

15 

minutes 

to 

18 

minutes 

to 

30 

mmutes 
minutes 
minutes 
minutes 

to 

20 

minutes 

to 

22 

minutes 
minutes 

to 

20 

minutes 

hours 

hours 

to 

1!4 

hours 

to 

30 

mmutes 

to 

30 

minutes 

to 

6 

minutes 

to 

60 

minutes 
minutes 

to 

8 

hours 

to 

60 

minutes 

to 

45 

minutes 

to 

15 

minutes 

to 

30 

Minutes 

to 

15 

minutes 

to 

10 

minutes 

to 

30 

mmutes 

to 

60 

minutes 

to 

30 

minutes 

to 

60 

minutes 

to 

3 

hours 

to 

5 

hours 

to 

25 

minutes 

to 

45 

mmutes 

to 

50 

minutes 

to 

20 

minutes 

170 


PEORIA  WOMEN'S  COOK  BOOK 


Patties    15 

Muffins    20 

Rice  or  tapioca  pudding 1 

Scalloped  dishes    15 

Custard 35 

Potatoes,   boiled    20 

Potatoes,   baked    30 

Sweet  potatoes,  boiled 25 

Sweet  potatoes,  baked 35 

Squash,  boiled    25 

Squash,  baked    45 

Tomatoes,    (fresh)     20 

Tomatoes,    (canned)    20 

Cauliflower    20 


to 

20 

minutes 

to 

25 

mmutes 
hour 

to 

20 

minutes 

to 

45 

minutes 

to 

30 

minutes 

to 

45 

minutes 

to 

35 

minutes 

to 

50 

minutes 
minutes 
minutes 

to 

35 

minutes 

to 

30 

minutes 

to 

35 

mmutes 

TABLE  OF  CONTENTS 


Soups 7 

Fish 15 

Meats    23 

Eggs 37 

Breads    43 

Vegetables 59 

Entrees    69 

Salads 75 

Salads  Dressing    83 

Cakes 87 

Icings 1 03 

Cookies    1  05 

Desserts    113 

Ices  and  Ice  Creams 1  33 

Pastries    137 

Pickles    145 

Candies 155 

Beverages    161 

Miscellaneous 163 

Time  Table  for  Cooks 1 69 


Hinners  Organ  Co. 

Pekln,  111.    Est.  1879 
Pipe  Organ  Builders 

Organs  of  any  required  capacity  or 
style  built  to  order,  according  to  the 
most   approved  methods  of  construc- 
tion.     Our  excellent    facilities    and 
other  ad  vantages  we  have  at  our  com- 
mand, enable  us  to  furnish  Pipe  Organs 
of  highest  quality  at  very  favorable 
prices. 
( Builders  of  organ  for  Illinois 
Building   at    Panama- Pad  fie 
International  Exposition.) 

Opinions  of  Eminent 
Organists 
J.  Warren  Andrews,  Concert 
Organist,  New  York  City:— "It  gives 
me  pleasure  to  speak  only  in 
terms  of  praise  concerning  your 
work." 

Clarence  Eddy,  Concert  Organ- 
ist:— "Imposing  in  architectural 
design  and  first-class  in  its  musical  qualities. ' ' 
.Dr.  Louis  Falk,  Concert  Organist,  Chicago: — "A  really  fine  instrument." 
Wilhelm  Middelschulte,  Organist  Orchestra  Hall,  Chicago:— "After  playing  your  excellent 
organ  I  do  not  hesitate  to  recommend  your  work." 

I.  V.  Flagler.  Organist  and  Composer: — "A  fine  Quality  of  tone,  and  action  of  excellent  con- 
struction." 

Catalogues  and  information  cheerfully  submitted. 

HINNERS  ORGAN  COMPANY,  Pekin,  Illinois 

Bornholdt  Electric  Company 

602  Main  Street 


Agents  for  the  famous 

"American  Beauty" 

Heating  Appliances 


Eden  Washing  Machines 


Eclipse  Vacuum  Cleaners 


Phone  Main  1418 


Packard  Mazda  Lamps 
We  Rent  Sweepers 


p 


FORD 
AUTOMOBILES 

SUPPLIES  WHOLESALE 
AND  RETAIL 

PINKERTON  MOTOR  CO. 

BOTH  PHONES  4305    817-819  MAIN  ST. 


Harry  E.  Cumerford 

203  North  Perry  Avenue 


UNIVERSITY  OF  ILLINOIS-URBANA 


3  0112  044105473 


3  0112  044105473 


