SENT  POSTPAID  ON  RECEIPT  OF  25  CENTS. 


<0^<^K  $0<$^ 


A   HELP  TO 


YOUNG  HOUSEKEEPERS. 


BY    A    PRACTICAL    COOK. 


addrp:ss  publisher  of  pet  cook  book, 

BOX  50,  MELROSE,  MASS. 


THE 


/ 


ET 


C0<O^   ^(OO^* 


A  HELP  TO 


YOUNG  HOUSEKEEPERS. 


BY   A   PRACTICAL   COOK. 


ADDRESS  PUBLISHER  OF  PET  COOK  BOOK, 
BOX  50,  MELROSE,  MASS. 


COPYRIGHT: 

By  W.   H.  CHANDLER, 

1S78. 


^ 


TO    OUR   PATRONS 


In  adding  this  little  hrochure  to  the  world  of  literature  we  aim  to 
supply  what  we  believe  to  be  a  real  want ;  that  is,  a  simple,  economical, 
labor-saving  method  of  cookery,  at  a  price  suited  to  the  hard  times.  It 
contains  over  one  hundred  original  receipts,  all  of  which  we  can  confi- 
dently recommend,  having  used  them  with  good  results  for  many  years. 
As  this  effort  is  intended  chiefly  for  the  use  of  young  house-keepers  and 
small  families  generally,  the  receipts  are  given  in  small  quantities  for 
better  convenience.  The  directions  for  preparing  and  cooking  the  differ- 
ent dishes  are  given  as  clearly  and  concisely  as  possible,  and  we  have 
endeavored  as  far  as  can  be,  to  combine  economy  with  luxury.  That 
the  use  of  the  "  Pet  "  may  warrant  its  title  and  provp  a  help  in  time 
of  need  to  all  into  whose  hands  it  may  chance  to  fall,  is  the  sincere 
desire  of  The  Author. 


BUE^D 


Family  Bread. 

As  bread  is  an  indispensable  article  of  food  it  is  desirable  to  have  it 
uniformly  light  and  sweet.  The  first  thing  to  be  done  is  to  purchase  the 
best  flour.  There  is  no  economy  in  buying  an  inferior  article  at  less 
price,  for  the  difference  in  price  will  be  more  than  balanced  by  waste. 
For  an  ordinary  sized  loaf  of  family  bread,  it  will  require  about  four 
cups  of  flour.  Melt  a  piece  of  butter  or  lard  about  the  size  of  a  walnut 
in  a  cup  of  warm  water,  pour  it  into  your  dough  pan,  add  a  tea-spoonful 
of  salt,  a  third  of  a  cup  of  liquid  yeast,  or  half  a  cake  of  Gaff  &  Fleisch- 
mann's  Compressed  yeast,  which  we  recommend  as  the  best  yeast  we  have 
ever  known,  and  first  stir  in  a  little  flour  and  beat  it  a  minute  or  two  as 
you  would  beat  an  egg.  Then  add  the  remainder  of  the  flour  and  mix 
with  warm  water  (always  using  water  that  has  been  boiled)  sutRcient  to 
make  a  stiff  dough. 

One  cup  of  water  to  two  of  flour  is  about  the  quantity,  but  the  rule 
cannot  be  given  exact.  It  should  not  be  so  dry  as  to  make  it  difficult  to 
knead,  but  as  stiff  as  it  can  well  be  stirred  with  a  spoon.  This  small 
quantity  may  be  mixed  with  a  sharp  edged  spoon  without  putting  the 
hands  into  it  if  preferred.  Lay  a  plate,  face  down  on  the  dough  and 
cover  the  dish  with  a  folded  cloth.  Set  it  in  a  warm  place  (a  closet  near 
a  chimney  where  a  fire  is  kept  during  the  day  is  usually  of  the  right 
temperature  in  cold  weather)  and  let  it  rise  over  night.  When  it  is  risen 
take  it  out  on  to  the  kneading-board  and  knead  it  ten  minutes,  using  as  little 
flour  as  possible.  Make  it  into  a  smooth  roll  and  place  it  in  a  buttered  pan 
and  set  it  again  in  a  warm  j)lace,  over  the  stove  if  convenient,  but  not  where 
it  will  get  hot,  and  let  it  rise  to  nearly  double  the  size  before  baking. 
The  oven  should  be  hot  enough  to  brown  the  top  slightly  within  fifteen 
minutes.  If  it  browns  too  fast  at  first  the  heat  must  be  subdued  a  little 
by  leaving  one  of  the  oven  doors  ajar,  or  by  some  other  arrangement,  as 
the  loaf  should  remain  in  the  oven  nearly  or  quite  an  hour.  It  usually 
bakes  best  on  the  bottom  of  the  oven.     If  the  yeast  is  not  perfectly 

5 


b  THE    PET    COOK    BOOK. 

sweet,  and  the  dough  should  taste  sour  after  rising,  dissolve  from  a  half 
to  a  tea-spoonful  of  soda  in  a  very  little  water  and  knead  it  well  in.  A 
baking  pan  six  inches  by  ten  is  a  proper  size  for  this  loaf,  and  it  should 
be  of  sheet  iron  or  tin  that  has  been  used.  New,  bright  tin  is  not  as 
good  for  baking  purposes.  Some  practice  and  a  good  deal  of  care  is 
needed  in  order  to  insure  perfect  success.  If  the  dough  rises  too  long 
the  second  time  it  will  be  too  spongy,  if  not  long  enough  it  will  not  be 
light.  It  should  rise  one-half  after  it  is  put  in  the  oven  to  be  just  right. 
We  will  add  in  this  connection  that  for  all  the  receipts  given  in  this 
book  a  coffee  cup  that  holds  half  a  pint  is  used  for  a  measure. 

Cream  of  Tartar  Biscuit. 

To  two  cups  of  flour  add  half  a  tea-spoonful  of  salt,  and  mix  well  into 
the  flour  a  tea-spoonful  of  Cream  of  Tartar.  Dissolve  half  a  tea-spoon- 
ful of  Soda  in  a  cup  of  milk,  and  mix  quickly,  stirring  with  a  spoon.  If 
the  cup  of  milk  is  not  sufficient  add  a  little  more  gradually  until  you  have 
a  dough  a  little  softer  than  for  family  bread.  Dredge  your  board  with 
flour,  turn  out  your  dough  and  roll  to  the  thickness  of  three-fourths  of 
an  inch,  cut  with  a  biscuit  cutter,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  fifteen  min- 
utes. We  give  here  as  a  universal  rule  that  whenever  Cream  of  Tartar 
is  used  in  anything,  it  should  be  mixed  in  the  flour,  and  the  Soda  dissolved 
in  the  milk  or  water.  Soda  and  salasratus  are  alike.  Common  baking 
powder,  which  is  composed  of  the  same  ingredients,  may  be  used  instead 
if  preferred,  always  mixed  in  the  dry  flour. 

Breakfast  Rolls. 

To  two  cups  of  flour  rub  in  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  ^gg.  Add 
half  a  tea-spoonful  of  salt,  one-quarter  of  a  cup  of  yeast,  or  a  quarter  of 
a  cake  of  compressed  yeast  dissolved  in  a  little  water,  and  mix  with  luke- 
warm water  a  little  softer  than  for  family  bread.  Cover  and  rise  it  over 
night  as  previously  directed.  After  it  is  risen  do  not  knead  it  at  all,  but 
roll  and  cut  same  as  /or  Cream  of  Tartar  biscuit.  Then  dip  the  end  of 
a  knife  or  spoon  in  a  little  melted  butter,  pass  it  over  each  biscuit,  and 
fold  it  over  double.  Place  them  a  little  distance  apart  in  the  pan,  lay  a 
cloth  over  the  whole,  and  stand  it  where  it  is  quite  warm  for  ten  or  fifteen 
minutes,  and  bake  the  same  as  biscuit.  The  addition  of  a  little  sugar  in 
bread  is  thought  by  some  to  be  an  improvement.  The  quantity,  about  a 
table-spoonful  to  four  cups  of  flour. 


BREAD.  7 

Graham  Biscuit, 

Take  one-half  Graham  and  one-half  white  flour,  and  mix  it  well  to- 
gether. To  each  cup  of  flour  add  a  table-spoonful  of  brown  sugar,  a 
little  salt,  and  mix  with  milk.  Soda,  and  Cream  of  Tartar,  same  as  for 
Cream  of  Tartar  biscuit.  It  may  be  made  in  loaves  the  same  way,  or 
raised  with  yeast  like  family  bread. 

Corn  Bread. 

Half  a  cup  of  bolted  Indian  meal  and  a  cup  of  flour  mixed.  Beat  one 
egg  with  three  table-spoonsful  of  sugar,  mix  one  tea-spoonful  of  Cream 
of  Tartar  into  the  meal,  and  dissolve  half  a  tea-spoonful  of  Soda  in  a 
cup  of  milk.  Add  half  a  tea-spoonful  of  salt,  mix  all  together  and  pour 
into  a  shallow  pan  and  bake  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes,  or  until  it  is  a 
rich  brown.  It  may  be  made  without  sugar  if  preferred,  or  with  sour 
milk,  omitting  the  Cream  of  Tartar,  and  using  a  tea-spoonful  of  Soda  to 
each  cup  of  sour  milk. 

Short  Cake. 

Take  two  cups  of  flour,  rub  into  one-half  of  it  one-third  of  a  cup  of 
butter,  and  in  the  other  half  mix  a  tea-spoonful  of  Cream  of  Tartar  and 
half  a  tea-spoonful  of  salt.  Stir  the  whole  together,  then  dissolve  half  a 
tea-spoonful  of  soda  in  a  cup  of  milk,  mix  and  roll  into  a  sheet  about  an 
inch  thick,  and  bake  twenty  minutes  to  half  an  hour.  This  is  very  nice 
for  plain  bread.  For  strawberry  or  blackberry  short  cake,  slice  it  through 
the  centre  while  it  is  hot,  spread  on  butter,  and  put  in  layers  of  berries 
and  sugar. 

Brown  Bread. 

Two  cups  Indian  meal,  two  of  rye,  one-half  a  cup  of  molasses,  one-half 
a  cup  or  one-half  a  cake  of  yeast,  stir  in  warm  water  to  make  a  soft 
dough,  rise  one  hour,  and  bake  or  steam  three  hours. 

Muffins. 

Make  the  same  as  breakfast  rolls  except  use  more  water  and  make  the 
dough  quite  soft.  Rise  over  night  and  in  the  morning  do  not  stir  or  knead 
it  at  all.  Bake  in  a  French  Roll  pan,  or  rings,  and  drop  a  spoonful  in  each. 
Let  it  stand  ten  or  fifteen  minutes  before  baking  and  bake  ten  minutes. 


8  THE   PET    COOK   BOOK. 

Buckwheat  Cakes. 

A  cup  and  a  half  of  Buckwheat  to  two  cups  warm  water,  a  table- 
spoonful  of  molasses,  half  a  tea-spoonful  salt,  quarter  of  a  cake  of  com- 
pressed yeast.  Rise  over  night  and  fry  with  lard.  The  most  successful 
way  is  to  reserve  a  little  of  the  dough  to  rise  from  each  day  and  add  a 
little  soda  in  the  morning  instead  of  using  yeast  every  time. 

Milk  Toast. 

To  one  quart  of  boiling  milk  add  two  table-spoonfuls  of  flour  wet  in  a 
little  cold  milk.  Let  it  boil  five  minutes.  Take  it  from  the  fire  and  stir 
in  half  a  cup  of  butter,  and  salt  to  taste.  Have  your  bread  cut  thin  and 
toasted  brown,  dip  each  slice  in  the  milk  and  lay  it  on  the  dish,  then  pour 
the  remainder  over  the  whole.  Do  not  boil  it  after  the  butter  is  added. 
A  smooth  iron  pan  is  best  to  make  it  in,  as  the  milk  is  not  so  liable  to 
burn  as  in  tin  or  other  ware. 

Batter  Cakes. 

Three  well  beaten  eggs  to  one  pint  of  milk,  and  one  cup  of  flour.  Add 
salt,  soda  and  Cream  of  Tartar  in  the  usual  way,  and  fry  on  the  griddle 
with  butter.  Serve  with  butter  and  sugar.  This  receipt  with  one-quarter 
rye  meal  and  three-quarters  flour  and  a  tabl^spoonful  of  sugar  makes 
nice  griddle  cakes  for  variety. 

Flannel  Cakes. 

Take  a  pint  of  warm  water,  a  tea-spoonful  of  salt,  and  a  quarter  of  a 
cake  of  compressed  yeast,  and  add  sifted  flour  to  make  a  batter  of  the 
same  consistency  as  for  batter  cakes.  Rise  over  night  and  fry  on  the 
griddle  in  butter.     Serve  with  butter  and  sugar,  or  syrup. 


MEATS. 


ME  A.TS. 


Roast  Beef. 


Five  or  six  pounds  of  beef  is  as  small  a  piece  as  will  make  a  good 
roast,  and,  to  be  rare^  should  not  be  cooked  more  than  an  hour  and  a 
half.  Dredge  it  lightly  with  flour  and  place  it  on  a  wire  grate  in  the 
centre  of  your  dripping  pan,  and  have  the  oven  hotter  than  is  required 
for  bread  or  pastry,  and  baste  often.  Make  a  gravy  of  two  table-spoon- 
fuls of  browned  flour  and  a  pint  of  hot  water,  and  pour  into  the  pan. 
Use  that  to  baste  with,  and  as  it  boils  away  add  more  hot  water.  No 
salt  should  be  used  at  first,  but  when  it  is  nearly  done  scatter  a  table- 
spoonful  over  it,  on  all  sides,  and  continue  to  baste  often.  There  should 
be  just  enough  salt  used  to  make  the  gravy  palatable,  and  water  enough 
to  make  it  of  the  right  consistency  when  ready  to  serve.  It  is  convenient 
to  have  a  quantity  of  browned  flour  on  hand.  The  best  way  to  make  it 
is  to  take  a  small  sieve  and  scatter  the  flour  evenly  over  a  shallow  pan 
to  the  depth  of  a  quarter  of  an  inch,  and  place  it  in  the  oven,  watching 
it  closely  so  that  no  part  of  it  will  get  burnt.  A  rich  tan  brown  is  the 
proper  color.  The  meat  should  be  turned  two  or  three  times  while  roast- 
ing. Serve  with  cranberry  sauce  or  currant  jelly,  mashed  potatoes,  tur- 
nips, squash,  onions,  celery,  cold  slaw,  or  the  vegetables  of  the  season. 
In  preparing  meat  to  cook,  if  it  is  necessary,  it  may  be  rinsed  or  wiped 
with  a  wet  cloth ;  but  sliced  meat  should  never  be  washed. 

Broiled  Beef  Steak. 

Cut  the  steak  about  an  inch  in  thickness  if  you  'like  it  rare,  and  broil 
it  over  a  quick  fire  until  it  is  browned  on  both  sides.  It  should  be  turned 
often  while  broiling  to  prevent  burning  and  save  the  juice.  Use  a  wire 
grating.  Grooved  gridirons,  recommended  to  save  the  gravy,  should  never 
be  used ;  for  the  gravy  or  juice  of  the  meat  should  not  be  allowed  to 
escape  the  meat  until  after  it  is  dished.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper 
after  it  is  done,  and  lay  your  butter  cold  on  the  steak,  set  it  in  the  oven 
a  minute  or  two  until  it  is  melted.  Butter  for  a^sauce  or  gravy  should 
never  be  let  to  boil  or  simmer. 


10  THE    PET    COOK    BOOK. 

Mutton  Chops,  Veal,  Pork, 

and  other  meats  requiring  to  be  broiled,  may  be  done  the  same  as  beef 
steak,  but  not  cut  quite  as  thick. 

Koast  Turkey. 

When  dressed  and  ready  to  prepare  for  the  oven,  singe  off  the  hairs 
with  a  blazing  paper.  Turn  the  wings  and  neck  back  and  fasten  them 
together  with  a  skewer  or  string.  Tie  the  legs  and  fasten  them  close  to 
the  body,  stuff  the  crop,  rub  salt  all  over,  dredge  with  flour,  have  a  grate 
in  the  oven  pan  to  keep  the  turkey  about  an  inch  above  the  gravy,  and 
roast  from  two  to  three  hours,  according  to  the  size.  Make  a  gravy  of 
browned  flour  and  turn  and  baste  often.  For  a  dressing,  soak  half  a 
dozen  soft  crackers,  or  the  same  quantity  of  bread,  squeeze  all  the  water 
out,  add  one  egg,  a  small  piece  of  butter,  a  table-spoonful  of  sweet  mar- 
joram, and  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Boil  the  giblets  one  and  a  half 
hours,  chop  and  add  to  the  gravy. 

Koast  Chicken. 

Prepare  the  same  as  for  roast  turkey  except  that  most  of  the  dressing 
must  be  put  in  the  body,  as  the  crop  will  hold  but  a  little.  Roast  one 
hour  and  a  half.  For  fowls  that  are  a  year  old  or  more,  a  surer  way  to 
have  them  tender  is  to  prepare  them  for  the  oven,  then  steam  them  one 
hour  before  roasting.  One  hour  will  be  sufficient  time  to  roast.  Boil 
the  giblets  one  hour,  chop  and  add  them  to  the  gravy. 

Koast  Veal. 

The  upper  part  of  the  thigh  makes  the  best  veal  roast.  Take  the  bone 
out  of  the  centre  and  fill  its  place  with  dressing,  and  roast  the  same  as 
beef,  except  that  it  needs  to  be  cooked  an  hQur  longer. 

Corned  Beef. 

Five  pounds  of  beef  will  require  three  hours  boiling.  Put  it  in  boiling 
water  and  keep  it  boiling  steadily.  The  cabbage  is  best  boiled  with  the 
meat.  Cut  it  in  halves  and  tie  it  up  in  a  bag  or  net.  It  will  boil  in  an 
hour  and  a  half  if  it  is  not  extra  large.  Other  vegetables  may  be  boiled 
with  the  meat  or  separately,  except  turnips.  Those  should  always  be 
boiled  in  fresh  water. 


MEATS.  11 

Fricasseed  Chicken. 

Boil  the  chicken  whole  until  tender.  Then  take  all  the  meat  from  the 
bones,  slice  and  place  it  in  the  frying  pan  with  a  little  butter,  dredge  on 
a  little  flour  and  brown  it  on  both  sides.  Then  take  it  from  the  pan, 
make  a  gravy  of  browned  flour  and  milk,  boil  it  for  five  minutes,  season 
with  salt  and  pepper,  and  pour  it  over  the  chicken  and  serve  immediately. 

Boiled  Tongue. 

Have  the  water  boiling  hot  when  it  is  put  in,  boil  three  or  four  hours, 
according  to  size,  or  until  you  can  run  a  fork  through  it  easily.  Peel  off 
the  skin  while  it  is  hot. 

Beef  smotliered  in  Onions. 

Slice  and  fry  half  a  dozen  onions  with  a  few  slices  of  salt  pork,  put  a 
layer  of  onions  and  a  layer  of  beef  steak,  then  another  layer  of  onions 
on  top.  Dredge  a  little  flour  over  each  layer,  add  salt  and  pepper,  and 
a  cup  of  water.  Stew  slowly  half  an  hour  and  add  water  enough  for  a 
gravy  if  it  dries  away. 

Pigs'  Feet. 

The  nicest  way  to  cook  pigs'  feet  is  to  dredge  with  flour  and  brown 
them  in  butter.  If  you  wish  a  gravy  make  it  the  same  as  for  fricasseed 
chicken. 

Tripe. 

The  same  as  pigs'  feet,  or  in  crumbs,  or  batter. 

Fried  Sausages. 

To  fry  sausages  no  fat  is  required  as  they  contain  enough  to  cook 
them.  Turn  them  often  and  cook  slowly  till  they  are  brown  on  all  sides. 
If  cooked  too  quick  they  will  burst  open. 

Liver. 

Liver  should  be  cut  about  half  an  inch  in  thickness  and  cooked  more 
thoroughly  than  any  other  meat.  The  best  way  is  to  broil  it  on  a  grid- 
iron and  dress  the  same  as  beef  steak. 


12  THE   PET    COOK   BOOK. 

Ham  and  Eggs. 

To  fry  ham,  have  the  pan  very  hot,  brown  the  ham  on  both  sides  and 
take  it  out  of  the  fat.  It  should  not  be  cooked  so  long  as  to  make  it  dry 
and  hard.  Drain  off  the  fat,  pour  a  spoonful  or  two  of  hot  water  into 
the  pan  and  stir  up  the  salt  from  the  bottom  and  turn  it  on  to  your  dish 
for  a  gravy  if  you  choose.  Then  turn  back  the  fat  and  add  more  if 
necessary  to  fry  the  eggs  in.  Break  in  each  egg  separately,  and  turn 
when  half  done,  or  throw  the  boiling  fat  over  while  cooking  and  not 
disturb  them  till  they  are  done. 

Lyonese  Potatoes. 

Slice  three  onions  and  fry  them  with  a  slice  or  two  of  salt  pork  until 
they  are  tender.  Slice  three  or  four  boiled  potatoes  and  fry  all  together 
until  the  potatoes  are  brown,  then  drain  off  all  the  fat  and  serve  hot. 

Boiled  Eggs. 

Drop  eggg  into  boiling  water  and  boil  two  and  a  half  minutes,  if  you 
wish  them  to  be  soft.     If  middling  hard,  boil  three  minutes. 

Dropped  Eggs. 

Break  the  shells,  drop  the  eggs  in  boiling  water  and  boil  two  minutes. 
Serve  with  buttered  toast. 

Omelet. 

Break  not  more  than  two  eggs  at  a  time,  and  stir  a  little,  but  not  beat 
them.  Add  a  little  salt  and  pepper,  put  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a 
walnut  into  a  heated  pan  and  pour  the  eggs  in  and  spread  them  all  over 
the  pan.  Then  with  a  spoon  throw  them  over  and  over  quickly,  roll  up 
and  turn  out  on  to  a  warm  dish.  One  minute  is  long  enough  for  them 
to  cook.  Kepeat  the  process  if  you  wish  to  use  more  eggs,  cooking  but 
two  at  a  time. 

Poached  Eggs. 

The.  same,  as  for  omelet,  except  that  the  eggs  are  beaten  before  cooking 
and  broken  up  in  the  pan.  Any  number  may  be  used  at  a  time  in  this 
way.    _Add..a  spo,o.nful  of  milk  to  each  egg. 


MEATS.  13 

Baked  Beans. 

Take  two  cups  of  pea  beans  for  a  three  quart  bean  pot,  half  a  pound 
of  salt  pork,  scalded  and  scored,  a  table-spoonful  of  molasses,  and  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  salt  if  the  pork  is  part  lean,  if  not,  more  salt  will  be  required. 
Fill  the  pot  with  water  if  they  are  to  be  baked  over  night,  but  if  they 
are  baked  during  the  day  it  is  better  to  put  in  less  water  at  first  and  add 
as  it  is  necessary.  Many  persons  boil  the  beans  and  change  the  water 
before  baking,  by  which  means  much  of  the  flavor  is  lost.  By  our 
method  they  will  need  to  be  baked  longer,  but  the  flavor  will  be  richer. 

Salt  Fish. 

Cut  salt  fish  in  square  pieces  and  boil  half  an  hour,  then  take  it  out, 
peel  off  the  skin  and  take  out  the  bones.  Put  it  on  to  boil  again  in 
fresh  water,  enough  to  cover  it,  and  let  it  boil  an  hour  longer.  Boil 
potatoes  at  the  same  time,  and  beets  if  you  choose.  Serve  with  butter 
sauce.  If  any  is  left  it  may  be  made  into  fish  balls  for  breakfast  the 
next  morning. 

Fish  Balls. 

Take  boiled  salt  fish  and  boiled  potatoes,  chop  fine,  and  mix  equal 
parts  of  each,  and  moisten  it  with  butter  sauce,  and  mold  it  into  cakes 
or  balls  with  flour,  and  brown  them  in  lard  or  pork  fat.  If  you  have  no 
butter  sauce  use  the  same  ingredients  that  it  is  made  of.  Dredge  a  little 
flour  over  the  mixture,  stir  in  a  little  melted  butter  and  add  cream  or 
milk  enough  to  make  it  hold  together.     Use  flour  for  molding. 

Fried  Fish. 

Fresh  Halibut,  Cod,  Blue  Fish,  or  other  fish  of  the  kind,  may  be  fried 
in  salt  pork  fat  or  lard,  using  Indian  meal  for  dredging,  or  broiled  and 
dressed  the  same  as  steak.     Smelts  and  Trout  are  best  fried  in  butter. 

Fish  Chowder. 

Take  three  pounds  of  fresh  Cod,  take  off  the  skin,  fry  three  onions  in 
a  slice  of  pork  cut  in  small  pieces,  pare  and  slice  three  potatoes,  put  m  a 
layer  of  each,  pour  over  two  quarts  of  boiling  water,  and  boil  half  an 
hour.  Split  four  water  crackers  and  cover  them  with  cold  water  for  ten 
minutes.  Drain  the  water  off  and  put  them  into  the  chowder  when  it  is 
nearly  done.  When  quite  done  pour  in  half  a  pint  of  milk,  a^d  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste  and  serve  hot. 


14  THE    PET    COOK    BOOK. 

Boiled  Fresh  Salmon. 

Boil  half  an  hour,  put  a  little  salt  in  the  water.     Serve  with  caper  sauce. 

Boiled  Clams. 

Get  clams  in  the  shell  if  possible.  Rinse  each  one  separately,  or  wipe 
the  shells  with  a  wet  cloth.  Shell  fish  should  never  be  put  into  water  as 
it  will  freshen  them.  The  salt  which  they  contain  is  indispensable  to 
their  flavor.  Fill  your  pot  with  clams  and  pour  over  them  half  a  pint  of 
water,  hot  or  cold,  cover  tight,  and  boil  until  the  shells  open,  which  will 
be  in  from  ten  to  twenty  minutes.  Then  take  them  out  with  a  skimmer. 
Drain  off  the  water  for  use  and  keep  it  hot.  The  sand  will  all  settle  at 
the  bottom.  Take  the  clams  from  the  shells,  cut  off  the  black  snouts, 
take  a  portion  of  the  liquor  and  rinse  each  one  separately,  holding  on  to 
the  snout  and  washing  the  sand  from  the  under  side  of  it.  Then  add 
enough  of  the  liquor  which  you  have  hot  to  cover  them  and  season  with 
butter  and  pepper. 

Clam  Chowder. 

Boil  the  clams  as  by  previous  direction.  Use  all  the  liquor  for  the 
chowder  and  make  it  the  same  as  fish  chowder,  only  not  put  in  the  clams 
until  the  chowder  is  done,  as  they  will  need  no  more  boiling.  Some 
prefer  it  without  the  milk. 

Lobster  Salad. 

Have  equal  parts  of  chopped  lobst  and  lettuce.  Serve  with  salad 
dressing. 

Chicken  Salad. 

Equal  parts  of  boiled  chicken  and  celery  chopped.  Use  the  same 
dressing  as  for  lobster  salad  with  the  addition  of  a  spoonful  of  olive  oil 
and  the  yolk  of  an  egg. 

Stewed  Chicken. 

Cut  the  joints  apart,  divide  the  carcase,  and  put  it  on  to  stew  with  just 
water  enough  to  cover  it.  Add  a  couple  of  slices  of  salt  pork,  cut  in 
small  squares,  a  little  salt  and  pepper,  and  let  it  cook  slowly  until  the 
chicken  is  quite  tender.  It  will  take  from  an  hour  and  a  half  to  two 
hours,  according  to  the  age  of  the  fowl.  Then  pare  jjotatoes  and  lay 
them,  whole,  around  the  edge  of  the  kettle,  cover  light,  and  cook  until 


MEATS.  15 

they  are  nearly  done,  adding  water  if  necessary,  so  as  to  have  just  enough 
for  gravy  when  it  is  done,  then  make  dumplings  same  as  for  Cream  of 
Tartar  biscuit,  cut  the  size  of  a  walnut,  lay  them  on  or  around  the  pota- 
toes, coveTr  tight,  and  steam  fifteen  minutes.  Thicken  the  gravy  with 
browned  flour,  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Beef,  veal,  or  birds, 
make  a  nice  dish  cooked  in  the  same  way. 

Vegetable  Soup. 

Take  five  or  six  pounds  of  meat  and  bone  from  the  shank  of  beef  and 
boil  it  in  four  quarts  of  water  four  or  five  hours,  then  add  half  a  cabbage, 
one  French  turnip,  two  carrots,  chopped,  and  *boil  one  hour  longer. 
Lastly,  add  two  or  three  sliced  potatoes  and  dumplings,  made  same  as 
for  chicken  stew  and  cut  about  the  size  of  a  walnut.  Drop  them  in  while 
the  soup  is  boiling,  and  boil  fifteen  minutes.     Add  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

Bone  Soup. 

A  light  soup  may  be  made  of  the  carcase  of  a  roast  turkey  or  chicken, 
or  the  bones  of  roast  beef.  Boil  the  bones  in  two  quarts  of  water  two 
hours,  then  take  them  out,  cut  all  the  meat  from  them  and  return  it  to 
the  soup,  and  add  one  sliced  potato,  a  table-spoonful  of  rice,  and  one 
onion.     Boil  half  an  hour  longer  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper. 

Butter  Sauce. 

Boil  a  pint  of  milk  and  stir  into  it  a  table-spoonful  of  flour  wet  with 
a  little  cold  milk,  and  let  it  boil  five  minutes.  Add  half  a  cup  of  butter 
and  salt  to  taste.     It  should  not  boil  after  the  butter  is  put  in. 

Caper  Sauce. 

The  same  as  butter  sauce,  with  the  addition  of  a  few  spoonfuls  of  capers. 

Egg  Sauce. 

The  same  as  butter  sauce,  with  the  addition  of  two  hard  boiled  eggs 
chopped  fine. 

Boiled  Turkey. 

Dress  a  turkey  same  as  for  roast,  boil  three  hours  and  serve  with  oyster 
sauce.  Put  the  oysters  on  in  the  liquor,  let  them  simmer  until  they  are 
shrunken,  then  thicken  the  liquor  with  flour  or  pounded  crackers.  Add 
butter,  pepper  and  salt. 


16  THE    PET    COOK    BOOK. 

Stewed  Oysters. 

Put  no  water  with  the  oysters  unless  they  are  too  salt.  Boil  five 
minutes,  add  a  cup  of  milk  to  a  quart  of  oysters,  let  it  come  to  a  boiling 
heat,  then  take  it  from  the  fire  and  add  butter,  pepper  and  salt. 

Scalloped  Oysters. 

Put  layers  of  oysters  and  pounded  crackers  with  butter  and  seasoning 
in  a  baking  dish,  and  bake  until  they  are  brown  on  the  top.  An  easier 
way  is  to  scald  your  oysters  until  they  are  separated  from  the  liquor, 
then  add  six  pounded  crackers,  and  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg 
to  each  quart,  season  to  taste,  boil  and  stir  three  minutes,  and  serve. 

Oysters  fried  in  batter. 

Make  a  batter  same  as  for  griddle  cakes,  scald  your  oysters  until  they 
are  separated  from  the  water,  drain  them,  and  stir  them  into  the  batter. 
Drop  a  spoonful  at  a  time  on  to  a  buttered  griddle  and  serve  hot. 

Mashed  Potatoes. 

Boil  six  or  eight  good  sized  potatoes  half  an  hour,  or  until  you  can 
run  a  fork  through  them  easily.  Peal  and  mash  fine  with  a  pestle  or 
spoon,  add  a  tea-spoonful  of  salt,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  two  or  three 
spoonfuls  of  cream,  and  stir  until  it  is  white  and  smooth.  Set  it  in  the 
oven  to  brown  on  top  or  not  as  you  please. 

String  Beans. 

If  they  are  young  and  tender  they  will  boil  in  two  hours.  They  should 
not  be  boiled  with  salt  beef,  but  a  small  piece  of  pork  gives  them  a  nice 
relish.     Add  salt  and  butter  after  they  are  dished. 

Asparagus. 

Boil  twenty  minutes  in  just  water  enough  to  cover  it.  Add  salt  and 
butter  when  dished.     Green  Peas  the  same. 

Green  Corn. 
Drop  the  ears  into  boiling  water  and  boil  twenty  minutes.     No  salt. 

Squash. 

Summer  squash  requires  about  an  hour  to  boil.  The  marrow  squash 
a  little  less  time.     Season  both  with  salt,  butter,  and  pepper. 


riKS.  ■   17 

Turnips. 

The  small  round  turnip  should  boil  in  less  than  an  hour,  the  white 
French  turnip  in  one  and  a  half  hours,  and  the  yellow  in  two  hours. 
Season  the  same  as  squash. 

Green  Peas. 

Boil  twenty  minutes,  and  season  with  butter  and  salt. 

Raw  Potatoes  Pried. 

Pare  and  slice  them  as  thin  as  a  knife  blade,  drop  them  singly  into 
boiling  fat.     Fry  till  brown,  skim  them  out,  sprinkle  on  salt. 


PIES 


Pastry. 

For  each  pie  allow  a  cup  of  flour  and  a  quarter  of  a  cup  of  butter,  or 
lard,  or  equal  quantities  of  each.  Rub  the  butter  or  lard  well  into  the 
flour  and  mix  with  cold  water.  Make  the  dough  quite  stiff.  If  it  is  too 
soft  it  will  be  tough.  Take  half  the  dough  for  under  crust,  roll  to  the 
thickness  of  one  eighth  of  an  inch  and  cover  your  plates,  having  them 
well  buttered.  Then  take  the  remainder  of  the  dough,  roll  it  out  all  at 
once  to  the  same  thickness  and  spread  over  it  half  a  cup  of  hard  butter. 
Fold  it  several  times  over,  and,  if  the  weather  is  warm,  lay  it  on  the  ice 
for  an  hour  or  tw6.  In  cold  weather  it  may  be  rolled  immediately.  Do 
not  fill  your  pies  until  you  are  ready  to  bake  them,  then  roll  same  as  the 
under  crust  and  cover  them.  To  prevent  the  juice  from  escaping  in  the 
oven,  before  laying  on  the  cover,  dip  the  tips  of  the  fingers  in  cold  water 
and  moisten  the  edge  of  the  under  crust,  then  lay  on  the  cover  and 
press  hard  all  round  with  the  ends  of  the  fingers,  before  trimming  the 
edge  off.  Finish  by  laying  a  strip  of  pastry  around  the  edge.  Pies 
should  be  baked  on  the  bottom  of  the  oven  from  a  half  to  three-quarters 
of  an  hour. 


18    *  THE    PET    COOK    BOOK. 

Mince  Pies. 

Take  four  pounds  of  fresh  beef,  having  about  one-quarter  of  it  fat. 
Boil  until  tender,  and  chop  fine.  Add  an  equal  quantity  of  chopped  sour 
apples,  one  pound  of  chopped  raisins,  a  table-spoonful  of  allspice,  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  clove,  same  of  cinnamon,  half  a  nutmeg,  a  cup  and  a  half  of 
molasses,  same  of  cider  vinegar,  same  of  sugar,  two  tea-spoonfuls  salt, 
and  as  much  of  the  liquor  that  the  meat  was  boiled  in  (using  all  the  fat 
from  the  top)  as  is  required  for  the  mixture.  It  should  be  wet  enough 
so  that  when  you  make  a  hole  in  the  centre  the  liquor  will  stand  in  it, 
and  if  there  should  not  be  fat  enough  on  the  meat  make  up  the  deficiency 
in  melted  butter.  If  you  do  not  wish  to  bake  it  all  at  a  time,  the  mince 
will  keep  in  a  cool  i:)lace  three  or  four  days.  Heat  it  scalding  hot  and 
it  will  keep  two  weeks. 

Sliced  Apple  Pies. 

Slice  your  apples  quite  thin,  pour  water  over  them  and  drain  it  off 
immediately.  Fill  your  plates  about  an  inch  deep  while  they  are  wet, 
scatter  over  three  table-spoonfuls  sugar,  and  flavor  with  cinnamon,  nut- 
meg, or  lemon.  Bake  half  an  hour.  Pies  should  always  be  baked  on 
the  bottom  of  the  oven. 

Squash  Pies. 

Boil  your  squash  the  same  as  for  the  table.  When  cool  run  it  through 
a  colander  or  sieve.  If  you  use  a  deep  plate  for  baking,  allow  one  and 
a  half  cups  of  sifted  squash,  two  eggs,  and  one  cup  of  milk  to  a  pie. 
Add  sugar  and  spice  to  taste.  A  little  ginger,  with  no  other  spice,  makes 
a  nice  flavor  for  squash.     Bake  until  it  is  firm  in  the  centre. 

Berry  Pies. 

For  blueberry,  raspberry,  cherry,  or  other  berry .  pies,  line  a  deep 
plate,  fill  it  with  berries,  scatter  over  two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  sugar,  cover 
and  bake  half  an  hour.     Use  no  spice  in  berry  pies. 

Rhubarb  Pies. 

Peal  the  skins  from  the  stalks  and  cut  them  in  small  pieces.  Allow  a 
quart  for  a  deep  plate,  and  before  using,  dissolve  a  tea-spoonful  of  soda 
in  a  quart  of  water,  pour  it  over  the  rhubarb,  and  let  it  stand  a  few 
minutes.  Then  drain  off,  rinse  in  cold  water,  and  fill  your  pies  as  with 
other  fruit.     Add  one  cup  of  sugar,  cover,  and  bake  half  an  hour. 


PIES.  19 

Custard  Pie. 

Four  eggs,  one  pint  of  new  milk,  sugar  and  spice  to  taste.  Beat  the 
eggs  but  a  very  little,  and  take  it  out  of  the  oven  the  moment  it  is  firm 
in  the  center.     Flavor  with  nutmeg.     Many  prefer  custard  without  spice. 

Washington  Pie. 

For  one  pie,  use  one-half  a  cup  of  sugar,  on^quarter  cup  of  butter, 
one-third  of  a  cup  of  milk,  three-fourths  of  a  cup  of  flour,  and  one  egg. 
Bake  in  two  tin  pie  plates,  ten  minutes,  and  when  cool,  put  between  them 
a  layer  of  raspberry  or  strawberry  jam. 

Lemon  Pie. 

F(5r  one  pie,  take  as  njuch  flour  as  you  can  heap  on  a  table-spoon,  wet 
it  with  a  little  cold  water,  and  pour  and  stir  into  it  a  cup  of  boiling  water. 
Beat  the  yolks  of  three  eggs  and  the  white  of  one  with  a  cup  of  sugar, 
add  the  juice  of  two  lemons,  line  your  plate  with  paste,  and  bake  half  an 
hour.  Beat  the  two  whites  to  a  froth  and  stir  in  half  a  cup  of  fine  sugar. 
When  the  pie  is  cool  spread  the  frosting  on  with  a  knife  and  place  it  in 
the  oven  a  few  minutes  until  it  is  brown.  Corn  starch  or  pounded 
crackers  may  be  used  instead  of  flour  if  preferred. 

Soft  Boiled  Custard. 

Allow  three  eggs  to  one  quart  of  milk,  place  it  in  a  kettle  of  boiling 
water  in  some  smaller  vessel,  keep  the  water  boiling,  and  when  the  custard 
is  warm,  commence  stirring  it  and  continue  until  it  begins  to  thicken. 
Then  it  is  done.     Add  the  flavoring,  and  pour  it  in  cups. 


20  THE    PET    COOK   BOOK. 


CA.KE. 


Wedding  Cake. 

Two  cups  of  butter,  four  of  sugar,  ten  eggs,  six  cups  of  flour,  juice  of 
two  lemons,  half  a  pint  of  wine  or  brandy,  one  pound  of  chopped  raisins, 
same  of  currants,  same  of  citron,  a  tea-spoonful  of  cloves,  same  of  mace, 
same  of  cinnamon  and  allspice.     Bake  slowly  three  to  four  hours. 

Sponge  Cake. 

Four  eggs,  one  cup  of  sugar,  and  one  cup  of-  flour.  Dissolve  half  a 
tea-spoonful  of  soda  in  three  table-spoonfuls  of  water,  and  mix  with  the 
eggs  and  sugar.  Mix  one  tea-spoonful  of  Cream  of  Tartar  with  the 
flour.  Mix  the  flour  in  all  at  once,  stir  no  more  than  is  necessary,  and 
bake  twenty  minutes,  or  until  it  is  brown  and  firm. 

Pound  Cake. 

One  cup  of  butter,  two  of  sugar,  three  of  flour,  and  four  eggs.  Have 
the  butter  soft,  but  not  melted,  and  beat  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a  froth. 
Dissolve  half  a  tea-spoonful  of  soda  in  three  table-spoonfuls  of  water, 
and  stir  a  tea-spoonful  of  Cream  of  Tartar  into  the  flour.  Flavor  with 
nutmeg  or  lemon.  If  baked  in  a  sheet,  butter  your  pan,  cut  a  piece  of 
white  paper  the  size  of  the  pan,  lay  it  in  and  butter  the  paper.  Pour 
in  the  dough  and  spread  it  with  a  knife.  When  done,  turn  it  out  on  to 
a  sieve  to  cool  and  peel  off  the  paper. 

Citron  Cake. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  one-half  a  cup  of  butter,  two  eggs,  one  cup  and  a 
half  of  flour,  one-third  of  a  tea-spoonful  of  soda  in  four  table-spoonfuls  of 
cold  water,  and  two-thirds  of  a  tea-spoonful  of  Cream  of  Tartar.  Cut 
one-half  a  pound  of  citron  in  thin  slices,  mix  and  bake  half  an  hour. 

Ginger  Snaps. 

One  cup  of  molasses,  one-half  a  cup  of  sugar,  same  of  butter,  one 
tea-spoonful  of  soda  in  two  table-spoonfuls  of  water,  a  table-spoonful  of 
ginger  and  flour  to  make  a  stiff  dough.     Roll  very  thin  and  bake  till  brown. 


CAKE.  21 

Marble  Cake. 

For  the  white  part  use  one-half  a  cup  of  butter,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one 
half  a  cup  of  milk,  two  and  a  half  cups  of  flour,  the  whites  of  four  eggs, 
flavor  with  mace  or  nutmeg,  add  the  usual  quantity  of  Cream  of  Tartar 
and  soda,  and  follow  the  general  directions  given  for  Pound  Cake.  The 
exact  time  for  baking  cannot  be  given.  It  should  remain  in  the  oven 
and  not  be  moved  until  it  is  firm  in  the  centre.  For  the  dark  part  use 
the  same  quantities  of  butter,  sugar,  flour,  milk,  soda  and  eggs  (using 
the  yolks)  as  for  the  white  part.  Add  half  a  cup  of  molasses,  and  half 
a  tea-spoonful  each  of  clove,  allspice,  cinnamon  and  imtmeg,  and  omit 
the  Cream  of  Tartar.  Mix  with  the  white  part  in  layers  or  lumps  and 
bake  in  a  sheet  or  loaf. 

Seed  Cakes. 

One  cup  of  sugar,  one-half  of  butter,  one-quarter  of  milk,  two  eggs, 
half  a  tea-spoonful  of  soda,  two  table-spoonfuls  of  caraway  seed,  and 
flour  to  make  a  stiff  dough.     Roll  thin,  cut,  and  bake  on  buttered  pans. 

Soft  Molasses  Gingerbread. 

One  cup  of  molasses,  lialf  a  cup  of  butter,  a  tea-spoonful  of  soda  in  a 
spoonful  of  water,  a  tea-spoonful  of  ginger,  and  flour  to  make  a  soft 
dougfi.     Bake  until  brown,  in  a  sheet  or  loaf. 

Raised  Doughnuts. 

Make  the  dough  same  as  for  family  bread  and  rise  over  night.  In  the 
morning,  add  to  each  cupful  of  the  dough  two  table-spoonfuls  of  sugar 
and  half  a  tea-spoonful  of  cinnamon.  Stir  it  well  in  and  let  it  rise  again 
until  it  is  spongy.  Then  roll,  cut,  and  fry  in  hot  lard.  Pull  the  dough 
out  as  thin  as  you  can  when  you  put  it  into  the  fat.  Fry  until  they  are 
brown. 

Doughnuts. 

One  cup  of  milk,  one  of  sugar,  a  little  mace  or  nutmeg,  a  little  salt, 
the  usual  quantity  of  soda  and  Cream  of  Tartar,  and  flour  to  make  a 
soft  dough.     Roll  and  cut  in  lady's  fingers.     Fry  in  hot  lard. 

Cream  Cakes. 

Mix  one  cup  of  butter  with  two  of  flour  and  pour  on  one  pint  of 
boiling  water.  When  cool  stir  in  five  well  beaten  eggs,  and  drop  on  tins 
to  bake.     Filling  the  same  as  for  Cream  Pies. 


22  THE    PET    COOK    BOOK. 

Koley  Poley. 

Take  equal  quantities  of  sugar  and  grated  chocolate.  To  a  cup  of 
each  add  two  table-spoonfuls  of  corn  starch  or  flour,  and  stir  the  whole 
into  a  pint  of  boiling  milk.  Boil  it  five  minutes.  When  cool,  spread  it 
in  layers  between  thin  slices  of  plain  cake,  or  on  a  thin  sheet  of  sponge 
cake,  and  roll  it  up. 

Filing^  for  Cream  Pies. 

Two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  milk,  one  egg,  three  table-spoonfuls  of  sugar, 
two  of  corn  starch.  Moisten  the  starch  with  a  little  of  the  milk,  boil  the 
rest,  and  stir  the  starch  into  it.  Beat  the  eggs  and  sugar,  and  boil  all 
together  five  minutes.  Stir  while  boiling.  When  cool  add  one  tea-spoon- 
ful of  vanilla  or  lemon.     Make  the  cake  part  same  as  Washington  Pie. 

Plain  Cake. 

One  half  a  cup  of  butter,  one  of  sugar,  one  and  one-half  of  flour,  two 
eggs,  half  a  cup  of  milk,  soda  and  Cream  of  Tartar  as  usual.  Fine 
granulated  sugar  is  best  for  all  light  cake. 

Cake  Frosting^. 

To  the  white  of  one  egg  beaten  to  a  froth,  add  one  cup  of  powdered 
sugar,  one  table-spoonful  of  corn  starch,  and  flavor  with  lemon.  Harden 
in  a  warm  oven. 


PUDDINGS.  23 


PUDDiisras 


Plum  Pudding. 

Three  cups  of  flour,  one  (juart  of  milk,  six  eggs  beaten  with  one  cup 
of  sugar,  one  cup  of  suet  chopped  fine,  one  cup  of  raisins,  one  of  currants, 
one-quarter  of  a  pound  of  citron,  one  tea-spoonful  each  of  clove  and 
allspice,  and  a  quarter  of  a  nutmeg.  Bake,  boil,  or  steam  three  hours, 
and  serve  with  hot  sauce. 

Baked  Cracker  Pudding. 

Split  half  a  dozen  soft  crackers,  and  soak  them  in  one  pint  of  warm 
milk.  Beat  four  eggs  and  half  a  cup  of  sugar,  butter  a  deep  baking  pan, 
add  a  pnit  of  milk  to^the  eggs  and  sugar,  put  a  layer  of  crackers  in  the 
bottom  of  the  pan,  then  a  layer  of  raisins,  and  pour  in  a  third  of  the 
mixture,  repeat  the  layers  until  all  is  used.  Bake  one  hour  and  a  half. 
Serve  with  hot  sauce. 

Bread  Pudding. 

Take  stale  bread  sufficient  to  make  a  pound  loaf  and  soak  it  over  night 
in  water.  In  the  morning  squeeze  all  the  water  out  of  it  and  add  three 
eggs,  one  half  pound  of  chopped  suet,  one  pound  of  raisins,  one  cup  of 
molasses,  one  cup  of  milk,  half  a  tea-spoonful  each  of  cinnamon,  allspice, 
cloves,  and  nutmeg.     Bake  two  hours. 

Batter  Pudding. 

One  quart  of  milk,  one  and  a  half  cups  sifted  flour,  six  well  beaten 
eggs,  a  little  salt,  a  tea-spoonful  of  Cream  of  Tartar,  and  half  the  quantity 
of  soda.     Boil  or  bake  one  hour. 

Blueberry  Pudding. 

Make  a  batter  same  as  for  Batter  Pudding  and  add  one  pint  of  berries, 
and  boil  in  a  tin  pudding  boiler  one  hour. 

Pop  Corn  Pudding. 

One  quart  of  milk,  two  eggs,  half  a  cup  of  sugar,  a  little  salt,  one  quart 
of  corn.     Bake  half  an  hour. 


^  24  THE    PET    COOK    BOOK. 

Baked  Indian  Pudding. 

Boil  a  quart  of  milk,  stir  in  Indian  meal  to  make  it  about  as  stiff  as 
mush,  add  a  cup  of  molasses,  half  a  cup  of  suet  chopped  fine,  a  little  salt, 
half  a  pint  of  cold  milk,  and  bake  three  hours. 

Apple  Fritters. 

Make  a  batter  same  as  for  Batter  Pudding,  stir  in  apples,  cut  in  small 
slices,  and  fry  the  same  as  doughnuts.  Serve  with  butter  and  powdered 
sugar. 

Boiled  Rice. 

To  one  cup  of  rice  add  three  of  water  and  salt  to  taste.  Boil  till  the 
water  is  absorbed,  then  cover  tight  and  set  it  over  a  vessel  of  boiling 
water  and  keep  it  boiling  for  half  an  hour. 

Cracked  Wheat  and  Oats. 

To  one  cup  add  two  and  a  half  of  water,  salt  to  taste,  and  boil  the 
same  as  rice. 

Boiled  Tapioca. 

Same  as  rice,  but  use  milk  instead  of  water.  Serve  with  cream  and 
sugar. 

Baked  Rice. 

One  quart  of  milk,  one  cup  of  rice.  Bake  half  an  hour,  then  stir  in 
four  eggs  beaten  with  one  cup  of  sugar,  a  little  salt,  and  a  piece  of 
butter.     Bake  half  an  hour  longer. 

Minute  Pudding. 

To  one  pint  of  boiling  water  add  a  little  salt,  and  stir  in  Buckwheat 
flour  to  make  a  stiff  dough.     Serve  immediately  with  butter  and  syrup. 

Apple  Dumplings. 

Two  cups  of  flour,  and  one  of  milk.  Make  dough  same  as  for  Cream 
of  Tartar  biscuit.  Cut  in  four  pieces,  roll  to  the  thickness  of  half  an 
inch,  *and  lay  on  each  a  half  a  cup  of  chopped  or  sliced  apples.  Close 
up  and  turn  them  smooth  side  up  on  to  a  plate,  set  the  plate  into  your 
steamer,  cover  tight,  and  keep  boiling  forty  minutes. 


PUDDINGS.  25 

Mush. 

Stir  Indian  meal  into  boiling  water  to  make  a  soft  mush.  Add  a  little 
salt  and  boil  slowly  half  an  hour.     Serve  with  milk  or  syrup. 

Blanc  Mange. 

One  cup  of  Irish  Moss  or  one  box  of  gelatine  to  three  quarts  of  milk. 
Add  salt  and  sugar  to  taste,  boil,  and  strain  into  moulds. 

Charlotte  Riisse. 

Line  your  moulds  with  thin  slices  of  sponge  or  plain  cake.  Beat  a 
pint  of  cream  to  a  froth  in  an  egg-beater,  add  two-thirds  of  a  cup  of 
powdered  sugar,  one  tea-spoonful  of  vanilla  or  lemon,  half  a  box  of 
gelatine  dissolved  in  half  a  cup  of  water.  Have  your  cream  very  cold 
when  you  commence  to  beat  it,  place  a  dish  in  a  pan  of  ice  or  snow  and 
turn  the  cream  into  it  when  beaten  to  a  froth.  Have  the  gelatine  cool, 
but  not  cold  enough  to  become  a  jelly,  stir  all  together  briskly  with  a  spoon 
until  it  is  stiff,  then  fill  your  moulds.  A  tin  egg-beater  after  the  model 
of  the  churn  and  dasher  is  best  for  this  purpose. 

Italian  Cream. 

Same  as  Charlotte  Russe,  without  the  cake,  adding  a  cup  of  wine  and 
two  well-beaten  eggs.  Dissolve  the  gelatine  in  the  wine  and  add  the 
juice  of  one  lemon,  turn  it  into  a  mould  and  keep  it  in  a  cool  place. 


26  THE    PET    COOK   BOOK. 


DUIZSTKS 


Tea. 

Put  half  a  cup  of  tea  to  a  pint  of  cold  water,  let  it  steep  slowly  until 
ready  for  use  then  boil  it  two  minutes.  To  avoid  the  clogging  of  the 
spout  with  tea  leaves  it  is  well  to  use  a  little  bag  of  muslin. 

Coffee. 

Mix  one  cup  of  coffee  with  half  an  egg,  if  you  use  a  common  tin 
coffee  pot  put  the  coffee  in  a  muslin  bag,  add  a  quart  of  boiling  water 
and  boil  twenty  minutes.     It  will  need  no  settling. 

Cocoa. 

Directions  for  making  cocoa,  chocolate,  and  broma,  usually  come  with 
each  package ;  but  the  general  rule  is  to  allow  four  tea-spoonfuls  to  a 
pint  of  boiling  water  and  a  pint  of  milk.  Boil  two  minutes  and  sweeten 
to  taste. 

Beef  Tea. 

Get  fresh  juicy  beef,  cut  it  in  small  pieces,  put  it  any  kind  of  a  vessel, 
place  it  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water  and  keep  it  boiling  one  hour.  This 
will  extract  all  the  juice  from  the  meat,  a  table-spoonful  of  which  is 
sufficient  for  a  cup  of  water.     Salt  and  season  to  taste. 

Indian  Meal  Gruel. 

Stir  half  a  cup  of  Indial  meal  into  a  quart  of  boiling  water  and  let  it 
boil  half  an  hour.     Add  half  a  pint  of  milk  and  salt  to  taste. 

Oat  Meal  Gruel. 

Make  the  same  as  Indian  gruel,  adding  sugar  and  raisins  if  you  choose. 

Lemonade. 

Allow  the  juice  of  two  lemons  to  one  quart  of  water,  and  sweeten 
to  taste. 


MISCELLANEOUS    RECEIPTS.  27 

Mead. 

One-quarter  of  a  pound  of  Tartaric  Acid,  four  pounds  of  sugar,  one 
ounce  each  of  essence  of  checkerberry  and  sassafras,  half  a  pint  of 
molasses,  and  three  quarts  of  water.  Boil  the  water,  molasses  and  sugar 
together  five  minutes  and  when  cool  add  the  essence  and  acid,  first  wetting 
the  latter  in  a  little  cold  water.  Keep  it  in  bottles  in  a  cool  place. 
They  will  not  need  to  be  sealed.  When  preparing  it  for  use,  allow  three 
table-spoonfuls  of  the  syrup  to  two-thirds  of  a  goblet  of  water,  stir  in  a 
quarter  of  a  tea-spoonful  of  soda,  and  drink  during  the  effervescence. 
This  makes  a  delicious  and  healthful  beverage  for  su-^mer  or  winter. 


MISCELLANEOUS  RECEIPTS. 


Maccaroni. 

Boil  a  pint  of  Maccaroni  in  water  until  it  is  soft.  Drain  off  the  water 
and  cover  with  milk,  and  boil  slowly  a  few  minutes.  Butter  a  baking 
dish,  put  in  half  the  Maccaroni  and  grate  over  a  layer  of  old  cheese, 
add  a  little  salt  and  butter,  lay  on  the  remainder  of  the  Maccaroni, 
another  layer  of  cheese,  salt,  and  butter,  and  place  it  in  the  oven  until 
it  is  browned  on  top. 

Ice  Cream. 

To  one  quart  of  cream  add  a  cup  of  sugar  and  two  tea-spoonfuls  of 
vanilla,  or  one  of  lemon  or  pine-apple,  or  half  a  cup  of  grated  chocolated 
Take  twenty-five  pounds  of  ice,  break  it  in  pieces  about  the  size  of  an 
egg,  and  pack  your  freezer  with  layers  of  ice  and  coarse  salt,  having 
about  one-fifth  salt.  Freeze  thirty  minutes.  Keep  it  in  motion  nearly 
all  the  time. 

Coddled  Apples. 

Take  sweet  apples  whole  with  the  skins  on,  place  as  many  as  you  can 
in  a  porcelain  kettle,  nearly  cover  them  with  water,  and  add  a  cup  of 
sugar  to  six  apples,  cover  tight  and  boil  until  soft. 


28  THE    PET    COOK    BOOK. 

Apple  sauce  with  Lemon. 

Pare  off  the  yellow  skin  of  the  lemon  and  throw  it  agide.  Pare  and 
slice  your  apples  and  slice  the  lemons.  Allow  six  apples  to  one  lemon 
and  a  cup  of  sugar,  cover  with  water  and  stew  until  soft. 

Pudding  Sauce. 

Take  one  cup  of  sugar  and  stir  into  it  a  heaping  tea-spoonful  of  floi.l 
Pour  over  it  two  cups  of  boiling  water  and  let  it  boil  five  minutes.  P  . 
a  third  of  a  cup  of  butter  in  the  sauce  tureen,  a  tea-spoonful  of  vinega  ^ 
same  of  vanilla,  and  a  little  nutmeg.  Pour  over  the  liquid  while  he  | 
and  add  salt  or  other  spices  to  taste. 

Dressings  for  Salads,  Chopped  Cabbage,  and  Celery 

Take  two  table-spoonfuls  sugar,  half  a  tea-spoonful  of  dry  mustan 
same  of  salt,  mix  well  with  a  little  cream,  then  add  one  cup  of  vinegf 
and  stir  in  gradually  half  a  cup  of  cream  or  milk. 

Omelet  Souffle. 

Beat  four  yolks  and  two  table-spoonfuls  of  sugar,  beat  the  whites  t 
a  froth,  mix,  flavor  with  almond  or  anything  you  prefer,  and  bake  te 
minutes.     Serve  immediately.  , 

Preserved  Quinces.  ^» 

Pare  and  quarter  your  fruit  and  take  out  the  core.     Use  white  sugai  ■ 
and  fill  your  preserve  kettle  nearly  half  full  of  syrup,  allowing  a  quai  -^ 
of  sugar  to  a  quart  of  water,  and  as  much  fruit  as  the  syrup  will  covei  ^ 
Boil  until  the  fruit  is  soft  and  the  scum  rises,  then  skim  and  can  immed' 
ately.     If  glass  jars   are  used,  to  prevent  their  breaking,  wrap  a  we 
cloth  around  the  bottom  and  lower  part  of  the  jar  and  pour  the  syru-  ' 
in  slowly  to  the  depth  of  an  inch,  then  fill  up  and  seal  at  once.     Put  th 
jar  two-thirds  full  of  the  fruit,  then  fill  to  the  brim  with  syrup.     It  i  i 
better  to  cook  not  more  than  a  peck  at  a  time,  or  some  will  get  over-don  \ 
while  you  are  canning. 

Peaches. 

Choose  ripe  peaches,  but  have  them  quite  hard.  Pare  them  but  not 
take  the  stones  out.  Preserve  the  same  as  Quinces  except  put  them 
into  hot  syrup. 


MISCELLANEOUS    RECEIPTS.  29 

Tomato  Ketchup. 

Cut  up  the  tomatoes  and  boil  them  until  soft.  Cool  and  strain  through 
-  wire  sieve.     Rub  through  all  that  will  go.     Boil  it  away  one-half,  and 

0  each  quart  after  it  is  boiled  down  to  the  right  thickness,  add  half  a 
p  of  sugar,  same  of  vinegar,  one  tea-spoonful  of  salt,  half  a  tea-spoonful 

,  ^  cloves,  same  of  allspice,  same  of  mustard,  and  a  little  cayenne  pepper, 
bil  all  together  a  few  minutes  and  seal  up  in  bottles  while  hot. 

Barberry  Sauce. 

Strip  the  berries  from  the  stems,  and  boil  in  water  until  they  are 
,irunkcn.  Strain  and  throw  the  water  away.  Allow  a  quart  of  sugar 
]  a  quart  of  the  fruit  after  it  is  strained,  and  boil  twenty  minutes. 

Cranberry  Sauce. 

Cover  with  water  and  stew  until  all  the  berries  burst.  Add  a  cup 
i  sugar  to  a  quart  of  berries.     Stew  three  minutes  more. 

Currant  Jelly. 

Mash  the  fruit  with  the  stems,  stew  five  minutes,  cool  and  strain.  Add 
quart  of  sugar  to  a  quart  of  the  juice  and  boil  twenty  minutes.     Put 

1  tumblers,  and  when  cool  wet  a  piece  of  white  paper  in  spirits  and  lay 
n  the  jelly,  and  cover  the  top  with  strong  paper  and  seal  the  edge 
ith  gum. 

Wine  Jelly. 

i  ,Wet  half  a  box  of  gelatine  Vith  a  little  cold  water  and  pour  on  it  one 
pd  a  half  pints  of  boiling  water,  and  stir  until  it  is  all  dissolved.  Sweeten 
)  taste,  and  flavor  with  wine  and  the  juice  of  a  lemon.  Set  it  in  a  cool 
lace  to  harden. 

Piccalilli. 

i 

Chop  a  dozen  green  tomatoes,  same  quantity  of  cabbage,  six  small 
>nions,  and  six  peppers.  Add  a  cup  of  vinegar,  a  cup  of  mustard  seed, 
I  tea-spoonful  each  of  cloves  and  allspice,  and  a  tea-spoonful  of  salt. 
>tew  slowly  one  hour. 


30  THE    PET    COOK   BOOK. 

Pickled  Cucumbers. 

Select  small  cucumbers,  soak  them  in  cold  water  one  night,  drain  and 
pour  over  hot  brine  (made  by  boiling  one-half  pint  of  salt  in  one  gallon 
of  water),  let  them  stand  twenty-four  hours,  drain  and  rinse  in  cold 
water,  drain  dry  and  pour  over  scalding  vinegar.  For  half  a  peck  of 
cucumbers  add  to  the  vinegar  while  heating  two  ounces  of  alum  and  one 
ounce  each  of  whole  cloves,  allspice,  and  mustard. 

Canned  Tomatoes. 

Pour  boiling  water  over  ripe  tomatoes,  peel  the  skins  off,  cut  them  up, 
and  put  them  over  a  hot  fire  to  cook.  As  soon  as  they  get  to  boiling 
they  will  be  done  enough  to  can.  If  you  wish  to  use  them  within  a  few 
weeks  they  may  be  put  in  self-sealing  jars ;  but  if  for  winter  use  they 
must  be  hermetically  sealed  in  tin  cans. 

Hop  Yeast. 

Pare  and  boil  half  a  dozen  potatoes  in  a  quart  of  water.  Throw  aside 
the  potatoes  and  use  the  water  for  the  yeast.  Steep  a  few  hops  and  add 
half  a  cup  of  the  liquid,  a  table-spoonful  of  sugar,  and  a  tea-spoonful  of 
salt.     Cool,  and  add  half  a  cup  of  fresh  yeast.     Bottle  tight. 

Dutch  Cheese. 

Take  sour  milk  before  it  becomes  stale,  pour  into  it  boiling  water 
enough  to  make  it  warm  but  not  hot.  Let  it  stand  a  few  minutes,  then 
strain  and  squeeze  all  the  water  out  through  a  cloth.  Salt  the  curd  to 
taste  and  press  it  under  a  weight  several  hours. 

To  keep  Eggs  for  winter  use. 

To  one  pint  of  salt  and  one  pint  of  lime  add  four  gallons  of  boiling 
water.  When  cold  put  it  in  stone  jars  or  something  that  will  not  absorb 
the  liquid.  Vessels  of  wood  or  brown  earthen  ware  will  not  do.  Drop 
the  eggs  in  whenever  you  have  them  fresh,  (they  should  not  be  over  two 
or  three  days  old),  keep  them  covered,  in  a  cool  place,  and  they  will  keep 
fresh  for  a  year. 


•        MISCELLANEOUS    RECEIPTS.  31 

To  keep  Cranberries. 

Cover  them  with  cold  water,  adding  a  cup  of  fine  salt  to  a  pail  full  of 

water. 

To  keep  Butter. 

Cover  it  with  brine  as  salt  as  it  can  be  made.  Boil  the  salt  and  water, 
use  coarse  salt,  and  put  in  more  than  will  dissolve,  so  that  some  will  be 
left  in  the  bottom  of  the  vessel.  Cool  and  strain  through  a  cloth.  Put 
a  weight  on  the  butter  and  keep  it  covered  with  the  brine,  and  it  will  be 
as  sweet  at  the  end  of  a  year  as  when  it  is  put  down. 

To  make  Sealing  Wax  for  bottles. 

Take  half  a  pound  of  rosin,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  beeswax,  and  a 
stick  of  red  sealing  wax.     Melt  all  together. 

To  clean  Kid  Gloves. 

Put  the  gloves  on  the  hands,  saturate  a  piece  of  white  flannel  with 
Naptha,  and  wet  them  all  over,  rubbing  the  soiled  parts  until  they  are 
clean.  Expose  them  to  the  air  twenty-four  hours  and  they  will  look  as 
good  as  new. 

Wash  for  Canker  in  the  Mouth. 

Compound  tincture  of  Peruvian  Bark,  three  ounces ;  Tincture  of  Myrrh, 
four  ounces  ;  Chloride  of  Soda,  one  ounce ;  Rose  water,  one  ounce ;  one 
pint  of  soft  water. 

To  keep  the  hands  smooth  in  cold  weather. 

Keep  at  hand  a  small  vessel  of  equal  parts  of  vinegar  and  milk,  and 
after  having  the  hands  in  soap  suds,  wash  them  in  a  little  of  the  mixture. 
Rub  it  well  into  the  skin,  then  rinse  in  cold  water.  It  counteracts  the 
bad  effects  of  soap. 

Salve  for  cold  sores  and  burns. 

Take  equal  parts  of  rosin,  beeswax  and  lard,  and  simmer  them  to- 
gether. If  when  cool  it  is  too  hard,  melt  it  again  and  add  sufficient 
lard  to  make  it  as  soft  as  you  desire. 


32  THE    PET    COOK    BOOK.  • 

Cold  Cream. 

Take  half  a  pound  of  beef  marrow,  two  table-spoonfuls  of  fresh  lard, 
simmer  together,   strain  and  cool.     Then  add  a  tea-spoonful  each  of 
Oil  of  Bergamot  and  Rose  and  beat  it  to  a  froth.     This  is  very  useful 
for  chapped  hands,  cold  sores,  etc. 

To  remove  spots  in  Carpets. 

To  remove  grease  spots,  make  a  thick  paste  of  starch  and  water  and 
G'>read  it  on  the  spot.  Let  it  remain  until  it  is  perfectly  dry  then  brush 
it  off.  If  the  grease  is  not  all  removed  the  first  time  repeat  the  process. 
To  remove  ink  spots,  before  the  ink  has  become  dry  wash  with  vinegar, 
using  fresh  cloths  and  fresh  vinegar  repeatedly  until  the  ink  is  all  out, 
then  rinse  in  clear  water. 

To  sweep  Carpets. 

Wet  several  sheets  of  coarse  brown  paper,  tear  in  pieces  and  strew  it 
over  the  carpet,  then  use  a  wet  broom,  rinsing  it  as  often  as  it  becomes 
soiled,  but  be  careful  and  shake  all  the  water  out  of  it  each  time.  By 
this  method  you  will  avoid  raising  the  dust. 

To  wash  Blankets. 

To  two  pails  of  water  add  half  a  pound  of  hard  soap  cut  in  thin  slices, 
and  boil  it  until  it  is  all  dissolved.  Wash  the  blankets  in  the  suds  after 
it  is  cool  enough  and  use  no  more  soap.  Rinse  in  two  waters  and  hang 
in  the  sun  to  dry. 

General  rules  for  Washing. 

Put  the  clothes  on  to  boil  in  cold  water,  let  them  heat  graaually  and 
boil  fifteen  minutes,  using  soap  enough  to  make  a  strong  suds.  Rinse 
them  in  two  waters,  clear  water  first  and  blue  water  last.  Colored  flan- 
nels should  not  be  scalded,  and  they  will  retain  their  color  longer  if  dried 
in  the  house. 

To  restore  Velvet. 

Moisten  the  under  side  of  the  velvet  with  a  sponge,  secure  a  hot  flat 
iron  with  the  face,  uppermost,  and  draw  the  velvet  back  and  forth  across 
it  with  the. under  side  next  to  the  iron  until  the  imperfections  disappear. 


UBRARY  OF  CONGRESS 


1  TRRftRY  OF  CONGRESS 

HHI 


