CooYi    BooYv 


"Thtt     Pilar/Kn-  (LooV\.  Bco\A. 

Si 

~r>K    kad'its'  Aid    SoucKj 

_  » 


* 


641.50977311 
P643p 


4 


UNIVERSiTYO^ 

ILLINOIS  LIBRAkY 

AT  URBANA  CHAI^PAIGN 

OAK  STREET 


THE  PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK 


PUBLISHED  BY 


The  Ladies'  Aid  Society 


OF 


Pilgrim  Ev.  Lutheran  Church     | 

Cuyler  Avenue  and  N.  Lincoln  Street  M 

CHICAGO,  ILL.  1 


I  Uri  f ifi  tiri  Hfifc 

I     192  1     I 
If  ill  mi  mi  mi  w 


Containiog  nearly  700  carefully  tested  recipes 


This  Book  may  be  obtained  from 

MRS.  H.  C.  STEINHOFF, 
1840  Cuyler  Avenue,  Chicago,  111. 


=      Price:  75  Cents 


Postage:  5  to  12  Cents,  according  to  Zone      = 


Good  cooks  are  born,  not  made,  they  say. 

The  saying's  most  untrue. 

Hard  trying  and  prime  recipes 

Will  make  good  cooks  of  you. 

Vl^fif  INDEX.  SWj2_> 

SOUPS : 5 

FISH 8 

MEATS   12 

"ONE  PIECE"  LUNCHEONS 26 

VEGETABLES  33 

SALADS   40 

PUDDINGS  and  DESERTS 53 

GELATINE  DESSERTS  63 

PIES  .'. 66 

CHEESE  and  EGGS 71 

DUMPLINGS  and  NOODLES 75 

FRITTERS,  DOUGHNUTS,  PANCAKES 77 

BAKING  POWDER  BREADS  and  COFFEE-CAKES     81 

YEAST  BREADS 86 

COOKIES    90 

SMALL  CAKES  ". 98 

ICINGS  and  FILLINGS  100 

CAKES 103 

TORTEN 123 

ICE  CREAM  and  BEVERAGES 128 

JAMS   130 

CANNED  FRUITS  and  VEGETABLES 133 

CATSUPS,  PICKLES,  ETC 135 

CANDIES  142 

MISCELLANEOUS 146 


Pilgrim  Ev.  Luth.  Church 

Cuyler  Ave.  and  N.   Lincoln  St. 
H.  C.  STEINHOFF,  Pastor.  RESIDENCE— 1840  Cuyler  Ave. 

TELEPHONE  GRACELAND  8963. 


8EK VICES — Sunday,  10:45  a.  m.,  7:45  p.  m. 

SUNDAY    SCHOOL — 9:30  a.   m. 

CHRISTIAN    DAY    SCHOOL — 9    a.    m. 

HOLY    COMMUNION— First    Sunday    in   tlie    month. 

CONGREGATIONAL  MEETINGS — First   Tuesday,  8  p.  m. 

COUNCIL— Last   Tuesday,  8   p.  m. 

LADIES*  AID  SOCIETY — Second  and  Fourth  Wednesdays,  2  p.  m. 

RUTH   GUILD — First   and   Third   Mondays,  8  p.   m. 

SUNDAY  SCHOOL  TEACHERS— Bi-weekly  on  Thursdays,  8  p.  m. 

MEN'S  CLUB— Bi-weekly  on   Thursday. 

YOUNG  MEN'S  CLUB— Second  and  fourth  Mondays. 


PILGRIM    COOK    BOOK 


He  that  feasts  his  body  with  banquets  and 
delicate  fare,  and  starves  his  soul  for  want  of 
spiritual  food,  is  like  him  that  feasts  his  slave 
and  starves  his  wife. 


Soups 

Cream  of  Green  Bean  Soup. 

Cook  cut  beans  and  2  good-sized  potatoes  till  tender ;  strain, 
saving  water.  Take  out  potatoes  and  mash  them.  Brown  1 
tablespoon  butter  and  1  tablespoon  lard,  add  a  little  flour,  the 
water  in  which  beans  were  cooked,  potatoes,  beans  and  1  cup 
cream. — Mrs.  A.  Piepho. 

Beef  Soup. 

Take  about  H  pounds  lean  chuck  and  1  pound  smoked 
butt,  cover  with  water  and  boil  about  two  hours.  Then  add 
2  large  carrots  diced,  1  large  German  celery  root  or  celeriac,  1 
large  German  parsley  root,  1  large  stalk  leek,  and  boil  1  hour 
more;  salt  to  taste.  Boil  dried  peas  separately,  flavor  with 
sweet  marjoram  and  add  to  soup  just  before  serving.  Navy 
beans  may  be  used  if  preferred,  or  dumplings  are  also  very 
good. — Mrs.  W.  H.  Jacobs. 

Beer  Soup. 

Pour  1  pint  water  in  a  kettle  and  set  over  fire.  When  hot 
add  I  pint  beer,  a  little  salt,  ^  cup  sugar,  1  quart  milk,  a 
little  flour  to  thicken  and  3  to  4  egg  yolks.  Serve  with  toasted 
bread  squares,  and  on  top  put  the  beaten  egg  whites  to  which 
has  been  added  a  little  sugar  and  vanilla. — Mrs.  H.  G.  Tischer. 

Cherry  Soup. 

One  pint  canned  cherries,  1  quart  water,  little  stick  cinna- 
mon, 1  tablespoon  farina.  Put  in  some  dumplings.  Sweeten 
to  taste. — ]\Irs.  A.  Steging. 


PILGRIM   COOK   BOOK 


Cherry  Soup. 

One  quart  fresh  cherries,  1  quart  water,  J  cup  sugar,  1 
broken  stick  cinnamon,  ^  lemon  sliced  fine,  2  tablespoons 
tapioca,  1  Qgg  yolk.  Cook  tapioca  in  1  cup  of  boiling  water 
until  clear,  add  more  water  as  it  evaporates.  Put  in  the  first 
six  ingredients  and  let  boil  15  minutes.  Take  from  fire,  add 
carefully  the  well  beaten  yolk  mixed  with  a  little  water. 
Froth  beaten  dry  with  a  little  sugar  on  top. — Mrs.  O.  Klep- 
pisch. 

Cream  of  Clam  Soup. 

Wash  the  clams,  put  them  into  a  pan,  pour  boiling  water 
over  them  and  cover  them  tight.  Let  stand  for  about  ten  or 
fifteen  minutes.  Then  take  them  out  and  remove  black  heads, 
flour  them  and  season  with  a  little  nutmeg,  mace,  pepper  and 
salt.  Take  three  quarts  of  the  liquid  and  put  it  into  a  sauce- 
pan to  boil.  To  I  pound  of  butter  rub  well  3  tablespoons  of 
flour  and  stir  it  into  the  liquid.  Put  in  the  clams  and  let  them 
boil  fifteen  minutes.  If  you  wish,  add  1  pint  of  cream  or  milk. 
—Mrs.  R.  Albrecht. 

Corn  Chowder. 

One  can  corn,  1  large  onion,  4  cups  potatoes,  4  cups  scalded 
milk,  IJ  inch  cube  salt  pork,  8  crackers,  1  or  2  stalks  celery, 
a  part  of  a  red  or  green  pepper,  salt  and  a  dash  of  paprika  or 
cayenne  pepper,  4  cups  boiling  water.  Cut  the  pork  into 
small  pieces,  add  onion  and  cook  till  light  yellow,  then  add 
corn,  4  cups  boiling  water,  onion  and  pork,  and  cook  sloA^ly 
20  minutes  with  celery  and  pepper.  Add  potatoes  cut  in  cubes 
and  w  hen  done,  add  milk. — Mrs.  D.  Wagner. 

Corn  Soup. 

Take  i  can  corn  and  stew  it  with  a  slice  of  onion.  Add 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and  1  quart  of  slightly  thickened  milk. 
Simmer  for  a  minute,  strain  and  serve.  A  few  kernels  of  large 
popped  corn  are  pretty  floating  on  top  of  this  soup. — x\licia  K. 
Steinhoff. 


PILGRIM    COOK   BOOK 


Milk  Soup. 

Boil  barley  or  rice  in  water  until  done,  add  a  pinch  of  salt, 
sugar  to  taste,  1  or  2  pieces  of  stick  cinnamon,  a  little  butter 
and  milk. — Mrs.  Semmlow. 

Fresh  Mushroom  Soup. 

In  6  cups  of  water  boil  1  large  onion,  tops  of  some  celery, 
I  green  pepper  for  J  hour.  Let  stand  J  hour  then  strain.  In 
2|  tablespoons  butter  simmer  20  cents*  worth  of  fresh  mush- 
rooms for  10  minutes,  add  2|  tablespoons  flour  and  stock ; 
simmer  15  minutes.  When  of  right  consistency  add  f  cup 
cream.  Add  1  tablespoon  whipped  cream  when  serving;  add 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste. — Ada  Wilson  Bohnsack. 

Green  Pea  Soup 

Take  1  can  peas,  add  6  to  8  cups  water,  J  cup  carrots,  diced, 
a  little  celery,  1  teaspoon  salt,  1  scant  tablespoon  sugar,  a 
little  white  pepper,  2  large  tablespoons  chopped  onions.  Let 
this  simmer  until  carrots  are  done,  then  cream  2  tablespoons 
butter  with   1   large   tablespoon  flour  and  add   to   the   soup. 

Dumplings  for  soup:  1  tablespoon  butter,  creamed,  J  tea- 
spoon salt,  1  Qgg  yolk,  |  cup  milk,  the  beaten  white  of  1  egg 
and  enough  flour  to  thicken.  Drop  by  spoonful  into  soup  and 
boil  about  15  minutes. — Mrs.  H.  G.  Tischer. 

Potato  Soup 

Four  large  potatoes,  1  small  onion  in  which  6  cloves  have 
been  stuck,  piece  of  celery  or  celery  salt ;  cook  till  potatoes  fall 
to  pieces ;  take  out  onion  and  celery  and  mash  the  potatoes 
fine,  pour  in  boiling  milk  until  consistency  of  thick  cream ; 
beat  one  Qgg  and  take  tablespoonful  of  butter  and  some  canned 
corn  into  this.     Season  with  salt. — Mrs.  A.  Steging. 

Cream  of  Potato  Soup. 
Three  potatoes,  1  quart  milk,  1  teaspoon  chopped  parsley, 
3  teaspoons  butter,  1  teaspoon  salt,  J  teaspoon  pepper,  2  slices 
onion,  2  teaspoons  flour.  Cook  potatoes  until  tender,  drain 
and  rub  through  sieve.  Scald  milk  and  onion  (simmer  onion), 
add  the  butter  and  flour  which  have  been  blended  together; 
add  potatoes  and  cook  10  minutes. — Mrs.  Sodeman. 


8  PILGRIM   COOK   BOOK 

Cream  of  Tomato  Soup. 
Press  enough  cooked  tomatoes  through  a  fine  sieve  to  make 
1^  cups;  let  puree  become  very  hot.  Melt  |  cup  butter,  cook 
in  it  i  cup  flour,  dash  of  pepper,  and  1  scant  teaspoon  salt. 
When  the  mixture  is  frothy  gradually  stir  in  1^  cups  cream 
diluted  with  ^  cup  water.  Stir  and  cook  until  the  sauce  boils 
vigorously,  then  add  the  hot  tomato  puree  and  remove  from 
fire  at  once. — Olga  T.   Bohnsack. 

Turnip  Soup. 

Wash,  pare  and  cut  into  small  pieces  ^  dozen  medium 
sized  white  turnips.  Boil  them  in  unsalted  water  until  tender, 
then  rub  through  a  fine  sieve.  Chop  fine  1  small  onion,  put  in 
a  stew  pan  with  1  tablespoon  butter,  and  cook  slowly  without 
browning  for  five  minutes ;  then  add  1  tablespoon  flour  and 
when  blended,  1  quart  of  milk.  Stir  until  boiling  hot,  add  the 
turnip  pulp  and  season  well  with  salt  and  pepper.  Cook  slow- 
ly for  5  minutes ;  serve  at  once  and  pass  grated  cheese  with  it. 
— Mrs.  Albrecht. 

Wine  Soup. 

Boil  i  cup  fine  pearl  tapioca  in  about  1  quart  water  till 
clear;  then  add  a  small  piece  of  stick  cinnamon,  a  little  salt,  1 
large  glass  wine  (white  or  red),  and  finally  2  to  3  egg  yolks 
and  2  to  3  tablespoons  sugar.  Serve  also  with  toasted  white 
bread  squares  and  drop  the  beaten  tgg  whites  in  little  mounds 
on  top. — Mrs.  H.  G.  Tischer. 


Fish 

Oyster  Cocktail. 

Open  i  dozen  or  more  small  oysters  into  a  cup  or  glass  that 
has  been  generously  buried  in  ice,  taking  care  to  save  the 
liquor.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  add  1  tablespoon  of 
tomato  catsup,  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice,  a  drop  of  Tobasco 
sauce  and  a  dash  of  Worcestershire  sauce. — Johanna  Kret- 
schmer. 


PILGRIM    COOK   BOOK 


Angels  on  Horseback. 

Select  large  plump  oysters  and  a  corresponding  number  of 
very  thin  slices  of  boneless  bacon.  Pick  over,  wash  and  dry 
the  oysters,  and  season  them  with  black  pepper.  Wrap  each 
in  a  sHce  of  bacon  and  pin  with  a  wooden  toothpick ;  the  round 
orange  wood  variety  is  best  for  this  purpose.  Place  a  frying 
pan  over  the  fire,  and  when  hot  drop  in  sufficient  prepared 
oysters  to  cover  the  bottom  of  the  pan.  Turn  them  quickly 
several  times  until  the  bacon  is  lightly  browned,  then  serve 
at  once  on  a  hot  platter. — Mrs.  R.  Albrecht. 

Oysters  in  Grape  Fruit  Shells. 
Take  all  the  pulp  from  halves  of  graps  fruit  and  fill  the 
shell  with  chipped  ice.  Make  five  depressions  in  the  ice  and 
lay  an  oyster  in  each  with  a  lemon  quarter  in  the  center.  Pass 
horseradish  or  cocktail  dressing  and  thin  strips  of  buttered 
brown  bread  ;  use  grape  fruit  pulp  for  salad  or  for  fruit  cup. — 
Alicia  K.  Steinhoff. 

Escalloped  Oysters. 

Examine  oysters  carefully  and  remove  all  pieces  of  shells. 
Then  to  1  quart  oysters  and  to  1  quart  cracker  crumbs  add 
1|  pints  milk,  salt  and  pepper,  and  a  little  melted  butter. 
Stir  all  together  and  bake  1  hour. — Mrs.  M.  Brockman. 

Creole  Crabs. 

One  can  crab  meat,  2  tablespoons  butter,  2  tablespoons 
chopped  onion,  2  tablespoons  flour,  2  cups  tomato,  J  teaspoon 
salt,  I  teaspoon  pepper,  few  grains  red  pepper.  Melt  butter, 
add  onion  and  cook  slowly  until  yellow^ ;  add  flour ;  when 
smooth,  add  tomatoes.  Cook  10  minutes,  then  add  seasonings 
and  crab  meat.  Serve  on  slices  of  hot  buttered  toast  and  gar- 
nish with  strips  of  pimientoes. — Alicia  K.  Steinhofif. 

Creamed  Shrimps  and  Peas. 
One-half  pint  milk,  piece  of  butter  size  of  an  Qgg.     Heat 
in   frying  pan,   salt   to   taste   and   thicken   with   corn    starch. 
Remove  from  fire,  add  1  can  shrimps  and  |  can  peas.     This 
is  a  nice  dish  for  supper. — Mrs.  O.  A.  Skibbe. 


10  PILGRIM    COOK   BOOK 

Codfish  Balls. 

Soak  codfish  (cut  in  pieces)  about  1  hour  in  lukewarm 
water;  remove  skin  and  bones,  shred,  and  put  on  stove  in  cold 
water.  As  soon  as  water  begins  to  boil,  pour  it  off,  add  fresh 
cold  water  and  bring  to  a  boil  again.  Have  ready  potatoes 
boiled  tender,  mashed  and  seasoned  with  butter.  Take  twice 
as  much  potato  as  codfish  and  while  both  are  still  warm  form 
into  balls.  Fry  in  deep,  hot  lard,  or  drippings,  like  doughnuts. 
An  egg  makes  them  lighter.  If  cold  potatoes  are  used  reheat 
them  with  a  little  cream  and  butter. — Mrs.  H.  G.  Tischer. 

Baked  Fish  with  Tomatoes. 

Clean  well,  sprinkle  with  salt  1  hour  before  cooking,  rub 
flour  over  it  and  baste  with  butter  and  put  in  baking  pan ;  pour 
a  can  of  tomatoes  over  fish  and  season  well  with  salt  and 
pepper  and  bake. — Mrs.   Albrecht. 

Baked  Fish. 

Clean  thoroughly,  sprinkle  with  salt  an  hour  before  cook- 
ing, fill  with  dressing  and  sew  securely,  sprinkle  flour  over  it, 
baste  with  butter  and  place  in  dripping  pan  in  moderate  oven  ; 
allow  1 J  hours  for  a  good  sized  fish ;  serve  with  drawn  butter 
sauce  and  garnish  with   sliced   lemon. — Mrs.   Albrecht. 

Baked  Cream  Fish. 

You  may  use  salmon,  finnan  haddie,  lobster,  or  any  left- 
over cooked  fish.  Make  a  white  sauce  of  2  tablespoons  butter, 
2  tablespoons  flour,  and  1  cup  milk.  Mix  fish  with  sauce 
adding  salt,  pepper,  paprika,  chopped  green  pepper,  strips  of 
pimiento,  and  a  little  chopped  onion,  as  desired.  Place  in  a 
buttered  baking  dish  or  in  ramekins,  spread  bread  crumbs  over 
top  and  bake  until  brown. — Alicia  K.  Steinhoff. 

Fried  Fish  with  Stuffing. 

Any  small  fish  may  be  used.  Scale,  clean  and  open  the 
fish  down  the  belly.  Have  ready  an  onion  cut  in  slender 
strips,  some  tiny  red  peppers  with  the   seeds  removed,   and 


PILGRIM   COOK   BOOK  11 

some  fresh  mint  leaves.  Place  in  each  fish  a  strip  of  onion, 
a  pepper,  and  a  mint  leaf.  Skewer  the  fish  closely  together 
with  a  wooden  toothpick,  roll  in  flour,  season  with  salt  and  a 
very  little  cayenne,  and  fry  in  hot  lard  or  butter.  Fry  until 
a  crisp  brown  and  serve  with  a  garnish  of  mint  leaves. — Mrs. 
R.  Albrecht. 

Halibut  with  Sauce. 

Brush  a  slice  of  halibut  with  melted  butter,  sprinkle  with 
salt  and  pepper,  cover  with  a  paper  and  bake  15  minutes. 
Serve  with  Hollandaise  sauce  made  with  J  cup  butter,  2  Qgg 
yolks,  and  |  tablespoon  vinegar. — Mrs.  G.  C.  Hass. 

Boiled  Fish  with  Green  Sauce. 

Enough  water  to  cover  fish,  3  or  4  bay  leaves,  18  pepper 
corns,  1  onion,  salt  and  J  cup  vinegar.  Bring  all  to  a  boil, 
then  put  in  the  fish  and  cook  slowly  until  tender,  about  15  to 
20  minutes.     Place  fish  on  a  warm  platter  and  pour  over  it  a 

Green  Sauce. — Melt  2  tablespoons  butter  in  a  pan,  add  1 
tablespoon  flour  and  cook  until  a  light  brown  color;  then 
add  enough  of  the  water  in  which  the  fish  was  boiled  to  make 
a  creamy  sauce.  Remove  from  fire  and  add  the  juice  of  ^ 
lemon,  1  cup  of  finely  chopped  parsley  and  1  or  2  egg  yolks. 
— Alicia  K.  SteinhoflF. 

Salmon  Balls. 

One  can  of  salmon,  12  rolled  soda  crackers,  1  cup  milk,  salt, 
2  eggs.  Form  into  balls  and  fry  a  light  brown. — Mrs.  Sode- 
man. 

Boiled  Salmon. 

Take  2  or  4  pounds  of  salmon,  scrape  the  skin,  wipe,  tie  in 
cheese-cloth  and  immerse  in  gently  boiling  water.  Cover 
and  cook  from  20  to  40  minutes  or  until  the  flsh  will  leave 
the  bone  easily.  Drain  and  remove  the  skin.  Arrange  on 
platter  and  pour  egg  or  white  sauce  over  and  around.  Garnish 
with  hard  boiled  eggs  and  lemon  points  and  serve  with  cucum- 
bers and  potato  balls. — Mrs.  E.  S.  Berndt. 


12  PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK 

Salmon  Loaf. 

One  can  salmon,  1  cup  milk,  |  cup  ground  bread  or 
crackers,  1  egg,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Bake  1  hour.  May- 
be served  with  tomato  sauce. — Mrs.  H.  England. 

Baked  Trout. 

Scale  trout  and  remove  head.  Season  and  stuff  with  a 
dressing  made  of  bread  crumbs  and  onions  to  which  has 
been  added  a  pinch  of  salt,  1  tgg  and  a  lump  of  butter.  Place 
in  oblong  baking  dish  and  cover  with  canned  tomatoes. 
Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  ^  hour.  Just  before  removing  from 
oven,  add  a  little  flour  and  water  or  milk  to  make  a  cream 
gravy  with  the  tomato  sauce.  Dot  fish  with  small  pieces  of 
butter  before  placing  in  oven. — Clara  L.  Kemnitz. 

Boiled  Trout  with  Cream  Sauce. 

Boil  a  3-pound  trout ;  skin  and  pick  out  all  bones.  Put  on 
a  hot  platter  and  pour  over  it  a  cream  sauce  made  of  1  pint 
milk,  2  tablespoons  butter,  1  tablespoon  flour,  2  eggs,  a  pinch 
of  salt  and  parsley  cut  up  fine. — Mrs.  Sodeman. 

Baked  White  Fish. 

Clean,  open,  and  straighten  the  fish  out.  Take  backbone 
out,  beginning  at  the  head  and  remove  carefully.  All  the  other 
bones  will  come  out  with  it.  Salt  and  allow  to  stand  some 
time.  Dredge  the  fish  well  with  cracker  crumbs  and  lay  in  a 
pan,  skin  side  down.  Lay  bits  of  drippings  over  the  top  and  it 
will  brown  fine.  Ordinary  fish  will  bake  in  15  to  20  minutes. 
— Mrs.  H.  Stiede. 


Meats 

Filling  for  Turkey  or  Goose. 

Soak  2  loaves  of  stale  bread,  2  teaspoons  salt,  i  teaspoon 
pepper,  2  teaspoons  minced  parsley,  2  teaspoons  or  more  of 
sage,  1  Qgg.'  Boil  heart,  liver  and  gizzard  until  tender  and 
put  through  food  chopper  with  2  medium  sized  onions  and 


PILGRIN    COOK    BOOK  13 

brown  mixture  in  butter.  Mix  all  well — fill  fowl  and  sew  up. 
One-half  pound  of  chopped  meat  may  be  added  if  more  meat 
is  desired — Elise  Rauschert. 

Peanut  Dressing. 
Three-quarters  cup  cracker  crumbs,  ^  cup  shelled  peanuts, 
finely  chopped,  i  cup  heavy  cream,  2  tablespoons  melted  but- 
ter, a  few  drops  onion  juice,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Mix 
in  order  given.  Very  good  with  roast  duck. — Mrs.  Wm. 
Fredericks. 

Cranberry  Sauce  Variation. 

One  quart  cranberries,  2  tart  apples.  Cover  with  cold 
water  and  boil  together  until  soft.  While  hot  rub  through  a 
sieve  and  return  to  fire,  adding  1  cup  granulated  sugar  to  2 
cups  sauce.  Boil  up  and  remove  from  fire.  Serve  cold. — 
Mrs.  C.  B.  Moellering. 

Spiced  Cranberry  Sauce. 
Three  cups  cranberries,  1  cup  water,  2  cups  sugar,  2  tea- 
spoons vinegar,  1  teaspoon  each  of  cloves  and  cinnamon. 
Place  cranberries  with  the  w^ater  in  a  granite  pan  and  cook 
slowly  until  soft.  Add  the  sugar,  vinegar  and  spices  to  the 
cranberries  and  let  boil  another  ten  minutes.  Pour  into  dish 
to  cool. 

Horseradish  Sauce. 
Have  1  cup  of  thick  cream,  thoroughly  chilled,  and  whip 
it  with  an  egg-beater  till  very  stiff.  It  should  keep  its  shape. 
Add  i  teaspoon  salt,  ^  salt-spoon  pepper,  3  tablespoons 
grated  horseradish.  The  radish  should  be  fresh,  if  possible, 
add  2  tablespoons  vinegar  and  1  teaspoon  sugar,  put  in  ice-box 
until  ready  to  use,  as  it  should  be  very  thick  when  served. 
Good  with  veal  chops. — Mrs.  H.  G.  Tischer. 

Savoury  Pudding. 

To  be  eaten  with  hot  meats.  Take  4  tablespoons  of  flour, 
1  or  2  eggs ;  beat  well,  add  milk  until  about  as  thick  as  a 
pancake  batter,  then  add  1  small  chopped  onion,  2  tablespoons 


14  PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK 

oatmeal,  a  little  sage,  pepper,  salt,  and  about  1^  tablespoons 
chopped  suet,  or  butter.  Pour  into  pan  containing  very  hot 
fat  and  bake  about  30  minutes  in  a  rather  hot  oven.  Very- 
savoury  just  served  with  gravy. — Mrs.  F.  Ingham. 

Creamed  Chicken. 

Boil  chicken  until  tender  as  for  soup,  with  celery  and 
parsley.  When  tender  dice  the  breast  of  chicken.  Parboil  1 
pair  sweetbreads  and  dice  also.  Pour  hot  water  over  small 
can  of  mushrooms  and  let  drain  in  colander,  quarter  mush- 
rooms and  add  to  chicken  and  sweetbreads. 

Sauce.- — 1  cup  chicken  broth  thickened  with  1  tablespoon 
flour  and  1  tablespoon  butter  creamed  together;  add  a  little 
pepper.  Put  chicken,  sweetbreads  and  mushrooms  into 
sauce,  lastly  add  i  cup  stiffly  whipped  cream.  Put  in  rame- 
kins and  grate  a  very  few  crumbs  over  top.  Stand  ramekins  in 
pan  contaniing  warm  water  and  brown  under  broiler  or 
oven. — ^Johanna  Kretchmer. 

Creamed  Chicken  on  Toast. 

One  large  chicken,  2  cans  mushrooms,  2  large  green  pep- 
pers, 4  medium  stalks  celery.  Cook  the  chicken  until  tender, 
remove  bones  and  cut  in  small  pieces.  Add  celery,  peppers, 
mushrooms,  and  4  cups  of  stock.  Thicken  with  flour  and  add 
2  bottles  of  cream.  Season  to  taste.  Serve  on  toasted  white 
bread. — Mrs.  H.  Trippler. 

Chicken  Loaf. 

Cut  up  chicken  and  boil  until  tender,  remove  bones  and  put 
meat  through  the  chopper.  Add  1  cup  of  ground  stale  bread 
crumbs,  1  egg,  salt  and  pepper ;  mix  well,  form  into  a  loaf  and 
bake  |  of  an  hour.  Chop  giblets,  add  to  chicken  broth  and 
thicken  a  little.  When  loaf  is  ready  to  serve,  pour  gravy  over 
and  around  it. 

This  loaf  sliced  cold  with  the  addition  of  thinly  sliced 
onions  makes  an  excellent  filling  for  sandwiches  of  either 
white  or  brown  bread. — Mrs.  E.  S.  Berndt. 


PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK  15 


Boston  Baked  Chicken. 
Cut  a  chicken  into  small  pieces  as  for  stewing,  wash  and 
wipe  dry;  sprinkle  with  salt  and  dip  each  piece  in  melted 
butter,  then  coat  with  flour.  Put  into  a  bean  pot,  laying  the 
larger  pieces  in  the  bottom  of  pot  and  putting  any  pieces  of 
chicken  fat  on  top.  Pour  over  the  chicken  IJ  cups  boiling 
water  and  cover  tightly  with  the  lid.  If  the  chicken  is  a  young 
one  bake  1^  hours.  The  juices,  fat  and  flour  will  make  an 
excellent  gravy.  Take  out  chicken  when  done  and  arrange 
with  the  gravy  on  a  dish  or  serve  direct  from  the  bean  pot, 
first  seasoning  to  taste. — Josephine  O'Rourke. 

Chicken  Smothered  in  Sauerkraut. 

Procure  a  young  chicken,  dress,  draw  and  singe ;  rub  well 
with  a  flour  and  water  paste ;  wipe  quite  dry  inside,  dust  with 
salt  and  pepper.  Rinse  and  drain  1  quart  sauerkraut,  fill 
chicken  with  hot  mashed  potatoes  well  seasoned,  lay  it  in  the 
roaster  and  place  on  it  two  slices  of  bacon  (place  two  slices 
in  bottom  of  roaster  also),  then  cover  the  chicken  completely 
with  sauerkraut,  add  a  saltspoon  of  salt  and  half  that  quantity 
of  pepper.  Pour  over  a  cup  of  cold  water.  Close  down  the 
lid  tight  and  roast  in  the  oven  3  hours ;  have  a  moderate  fire. 
Do  not  allow  to  cook  dry ;  add  boiling  water  as  required  to 
keep  bottom  of  roaster  quite  moist.  When  done  lift  chicken 
on  to  a  large  platter,  pile  the  kraut  around  it  and  garnish  with 
slices  of  lemon.  To  the  sauce  in  roaster  add  a  large  tablespoon 
of  browned  flour  and  a  cup  of  stock ;  boil  up,  add  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste.  Strain  and  serve  in  sauce  tureen. — Mrs. 
E.  S.  Berndt. 

Turkish  Dish. 

One  chicken  weighing  about  4  pounds,  2  cups  rice,  3  cups 
broth,  1  bunch  soup  greens.  Cut  chicken  in  pieces,  put  on  to 
boil  in  salted  water  with  soup  greens.  When  nearly  tender 
take  out  and  place  a  layer  of  chicken  in  a  pan,  then  a  layer  of 
rice  and  continue  till  all  is  used.  Add  3  cups  broth  to  each 
cup  of  rice,  put  on  back  of  stove,  cover  tight  and  do  not  open 
till  w^anted. — Mrs.  Roth. 


16  PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK 


Meat  or  Chicken  Pie. 

Make  a  dough  as  for  baking  powder  biscuits.  Have 
meat  or  chicken  boiled  tender.  Line  bake  pan  with  dough  to 
within  an  inch  from  the  bottom,  lay  meats  or  chicken  in,  add 
some  gravy,  butter,  salt  and  pepper.  Cover  with  crust  of 
dough,  and  bake  about  30  minutes. — Mrs.  Edw.  J.  Keuer. 

Chicken  Shortcake. 

Make  a  good  shortcake,  when  baked  split  it  open  and  spread 
it  with  a  liberal  layer  of  hot  fricasseed  chicken  from  which 
the  bones  have  been  removed.  Place  the  other  half  of  the 
shortcake  on  top  and  pour  over  it  a  liberal  amount  of  the 
chicken  gravy.  Serve  upon  a  deep  platter  or  in  a  big  vege- 
table dish.  The  shortcake  should  be  well  moistened  with  the 
gravy. — Mrs.   E.   S.    Berndt. 

Chicken  a  La  King. 

Heat  2  tablespoons  butter,  add  1  green  pepper  chopped 
fine ;  cook  slowly  3  minutes,  add  1  tablespoon  flour,  rich  cream 
enough  to  make  sauce  and  2  cups  chopped  chicken.  Heat 
thoroughly. — Helen  Lindau. 

Duck  and  Rice. 

Select  a  fat  duck,  cut  it  in  neat  pieces  and  put  to  boil  w4th 
2  quarts  water,  1  onion  sliced  thin,  3  sliced  tomatoes,  a  bit  of 
garlic,  1  yellow  pepper  chopped  fine,  and  salt  to  taste.  When 
about  half  done  add  1  tea  cup  rice  and  let  boil  as  nearly  dry 
as  possible.     Very  good. — Mrs.  Albrecht. 

Ducklings,  Indian  Style. 

Chop  very  fine  2  onions  and  1  clove  of  garlic  and  fry  slowly 
in  2  tablespoons  of  butter  until  brown ;  add  1  desertspoon  of 
curry  powder  and  2  minutes  later  1  pound  of  raw  lean  beef 
chopped  fine.  Draw  to  one  side  of  fire  and  cook  slowly  for  15 
minutes,  stirring  well.  Let  cool  and  stuff  2  ducks  which  have 
been  cleaned  and  wiped.  Fasten  into  shape,  for  roasting  brush 
them  over  with  chutney  sauce  and  put  in  a  hot  oven.     In  15 


PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK  17 

minutes  begin  to  baste,  repeating  the  basting  every  10  minutes. 
Roast  for  |  of  an  hour  and  serve  w^ith  gravy,  garnishing  w^ith 
v^ater  cress  and  slices  of  lemon. — Mrs.  R.  Albrecht. 

Roast  Rabbit. 

Skin,  clean,  and  let  rabbit  lie  in  cold  vv^ater  for  about  3 
hours ;  then  take  out  and  dry.  Put  rabbit  in  baking  pan,  pour 
over  it  J  pound  butter,  which  has  been  melted  and  brow^ned, 
and  roast  in  a  real  hot  oven  for  15  minutes.  Then  add  1  cup 
sour  cream  and  roast  for  20  minutes.  Take  out,  thicken 
gravy  and  serve. — Mrs.  A.  Piepho. 

Steamed  Rabbit. 

Brown  1  onion  in  butter,  add  the  rabbit  cut  in  pieces  and 
cook  till  brown.  Then  add  a  few  slices  of  bacon,  salt  and 
pepper,  a  little  cayenne,  parsley  and  celery  seed.  Thicken 
with  flour  and  add  1  cup  cream.  Very  good. — Mrs.  H.  G. 
Tischer. 

Hasenpfeffer. 

After  cleaning  and  washing  rabbits  well,  cut  in  pieces  and 
cover  with  vinegar  to  which  add  2  bay  leaves,  12  whole  cloves, 
allspice,  24  whole  peppers.  Let  stand  for  2  hours,  then  take 
out  meat  and  dry,  turn  in  flour  and  fry  brown  in  ^  pound 
butter  and  bacon.  Salt  it,  then  put  back  into  vinegar  and  sim- 
mer for  1^  hours,  adding  water  occasionally  as  needed.  Just 
before  meat  is  done  add  about  6  ginger  snaps ;  this  flavors 
the  gravy  nicely. — Mrs.  A.  Streger. 

Hasenpfeffer. 

Skin  the  rabbit,  then  cut  into  small  pieces  and  put  into  weak 
vinegar  or  buttermilk  with  whole  onions,  whole  black  pepper, 
bay  leaves,  cloves,  allspice  and  sliced  lemons.  Let  stand  for 
24  hours  and  then  strain  off.  Place  the  rabbit  in  a  pan  with 
butter  and  chopped  onions  and  roast  it  slowly  in  the  oven. 
Before  it  is  done  add  browned  butter  and  flour.  Bake  until 
tender  and  season  with  the  strained'  off  vinegar. — Mrs.  Chas. 
Hemler. 


18  PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK 

French  Chopped  Beef. 
Take   one   pound   chopped   round   steak,   little   pork,   add 
pepper  and  salt,  1  egg,  little  bread  which  has  been  softened  in 
water,  fry  in  butter;  stir  frequently  so  it  will  not  get  hard. — 
Mrs,  Louise  M.  Lafrentz. 

Beef  Loaf. 

Three  pounds  beef  J  pound  raw  ham,  3  eggs  well  beaten, 
3  soda  crackers  rolled  fine,  1  teaspoon  salt,  1  teaspoon  pepper, 
3  tablespoons  cream,  6  hard  boiled  eggs.  Chop  the  beef  and 
ham  very  fine  and  then  add  the  salt  and  pepper,  the  cracker 
crumbs,  the  well  beaten  eggs  and  the  cream.  Mix  all  these 
together  perfectly,  grease  a  breadpan  thoroughly  and  press 
half  the  mixture  into  it  firmly.  Trim  each  end  of  your  hard 
boiled  eggs  so  as  to  make  a  flat  surface,  then  put  them  on  top 
of  the  mixture  in  the  breadpan,  placing  them  in  a  row,  end  to 
end.  Now  pack  on  top  the  balance  of  the  meat,  pressing  it 
down  firmly.  Cover  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  1  hour. 
Uncover  and  bake  half  an  hour  longer.  Serve  either  hot  or 
cold  in  slices. — Mrs.  Lachmann. 

Beef  Tenderloin. 

Wipe  clean,  but  do  not  wash  the  tenderloin ;  season  with 
salt  and  pepper.  Place  in  roasting  pan,  adding  a  little  water, 
1  large  onion,  1  carrot ;  roast  in  lower  oven  of  gas  range  till 
brown  and  crisp.  •  Place  in  upper  oven,  add  the  mushrooms, 
which  have  been  prepared,  and  roast  i  hour  longer.  Roast 
meat  J  hour  to  the  pound. 

Mushroom  Sauce.^Boil  dry  mushrooms  in  salt  water  1 
hour.  Prepare  a  sauce  of  1  tablespoon  butter,  1  small  onion 
cut  in  very  small  pieces  and  1  tablespoon  flour.  Add  this  to 
mushrooms,  do  not  drain  water,  pour  this  over  roast. — Miss  L. 
Gansz. 

Flank  Steak. 

Brown  on  both  sides  in  butter,  to  keep  juice  in  steak,  salt 
and  pepper,  then  turn  over  a  can  of  tomatoes  with  sauce  and 
bake  IJ  hours  in  self-basting  pan. — Mrs.  O.  Kleppisch. 


PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK  19 

Pot  Roast  with  Carrots. 

Make  a  pot  roast  as  usual.  In  a  separate  kettle  put  2 
bunches  of  carrots  scraped  and  cut  in  small  pieces,  1  tablespoon 
butter,  2  tablespoons  sugar,  pinch  of  salt;  cover  with  water 
and  simmer  until  water  has  boiled  off,  then  add  gravy  from 
the  pot  roast  a  little  at  a  time,  using  just  enough  to  keep  car- 
rots from  burning.  Stir  often.  When  done  there  should  not 
be  much  gravy  on  the  carrots,  but  just  nice  and  moist.  Will 
take  about  3  hours. — Mrs.  A.  Piepho. 

German  Sauer  Braten. 

Put  3  or  4  pounds  of  beef  shoulder  clod  in  vinegar  for  2  or  3 
days ;  add  an  onion,  bay  leaf  and  whole  pepper  seeds.  When 
ready  to  use  put  lard  in  kettle  and  brown  meat  a  nice  browm, 
then  add  a  little  water  and  some  of  the  vinegar;  it  must  not  be 
too  sour.  Let  simmer  till  tender  then  add  a  few  ginger  snaps 
and  browned  flour  to  thicken. — Mrs.  C.  Sommer. 

Swiss  Steak. 

Take  a  thick  round  steak  from  2  to  2^  inches  in  thickness 
and  pound  into  it  as  much  flour  as  it  will  take,  using  the  edge 
of  a  plate.  When  the  flour  has  been  pounded  into  both  sides 
take  the  meat  and  brown  it  on  both  sides ;  remove  to  a  sauce- 
pan. Heat  i  can  tomatoes,  1  large  onion  cut  fine,  1  sweet  pep- 
per, and  pour  over  meat.  Cover  tightly  and  cook  slowly  for 
2  to  3  hours.  Just  before  meat  is  done  season  to  taste.  Deli- 
cious when  served  hot,  also  nice  cold. — Josephine  O'Rourke. 

Baked  Swiss  Steak. 

Take  about  IJ  pounds  of  round  steak  and  pound  in  as 
much  flour  as  it  will  hold.  Heat  lard  and  bacon  drippings  in  a 
frying  pan,  add  steak,  salt  and  pepper  and  a  little  onion,  if 
liked.  Brown  meat  on  both  sides,  then  add  enough  water  to 
nearly  fill  the  pan,  and  place  pan  and  all  in  the  oven.  Bake 
slowly  1  hour,  or  until  tender. — Mrs.  C.   Feig. 


20  PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK 

Swiss  Steak  with  Peas. 

Get  a  round  steak  about  1  inch  thick.  Knead  in  as  much 
flour  as  it  will  hold,  fry  in  butter,  add  sliced  onion  and  season 
to  taste.  Then  pour  over  it  1  can  of  peas  and  let  simmer 
about  10  minutes. — Olga  T.  Bohnsack. 

Sour  Beef  Tongue. 

Boil  tongue  the  day  before  wishing  to  serve.  When  done, 
skin,  then  put  back  into  liquid  until  ready  to  make  the  fol- 
lowing gravy :  2  cups  of  the  liquid,  2  tablespoons  butter,  1 
tablespoon  flour,  8  ginger  snaps,  lemon  or  vinegar  to  taste,  i 
cup  claret  wine,  sugar  to  taste,  ^  package  raisins,  1  bay  leaf. 
Slice  tongue,  pour  gravy  over  it  and  serve. — Mrs.  W.  C.  Pfis- 
ter. 

Beef  Tongue  with  Vegetables. 

Boil  a  salted  beef  tongue  until  almost  tender.  Remove 
skin  and  all  fat,  and  allow  to  stand  in  liquid.  In  2  good  sized 
tablespoons  butter,  brown  2  carrots,  1  onion,  1  large  potato, 
1  turnip,  all  cut  into  pieces ;  add  a  bay  leaf,  a  few  sprigs  of 
parsley.  Brown  until  tender,  then  add  a  quart  of  the  stock, 
put  the  tongue  in  it,  place  in  oven  in  a  covered  pan,  and  allow 
to  roast  2  hours,  turning  the  tongue  once.  After  2  hours, 
rub  the  vegetables  through  a  colander,  add  a  tablespoon  flour, 
rubbed  smooth  with  a  cup  of  tomato  juice,  salt  and  pepper 
to  taste,  a  little  Worcestershire  sauce.  Allow  all  to  boil  up 
and  serve  on  tongue,  which  has  been  cut  into  slices. — ^Johan- 
na Kretchmer. 

Head  Cheese. 

Two  pounds  pork  shoulder,  2  pork  shanks,  2  pounds  veal ; 
boil  pork  and  veal  separately  until  well  done,  then  take  out 
and  when  partly  cool,  cut  into  small  pieces ;  strain  the  water  in 
which  both  the  veal  and  pork  was  boiled,  add  it  to  the  meat ; 
flavor  with  onion,  pepper  and  salt,  and  if  it  is  liked  sour,  add 
vinegar  to  suit  taste ;  let  it  come  to  a  good  boil ;  set  away  to 
cool. — Mrs.  H.  W.  Bruedigam. 


PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK  21 

Sulze. 

Place  in  kettle  1  veal  bone  with  meat,  1  small  tongue,  1 
small  pork  shank  or  pig's  feet,  1^  cups  vinegar,  2  large  onions, 
8  cloves,  handful  salt,  a  little  pepper,  and  3  bay  leaves.  Cover 
with  water  and  cook  for  2^  hours.  Then  take  out  meat,  cut 
it  off  the  bones  and  dice  it.  Put  equal  parts  of  meat  and  stock 
(liquid  in  which  meat  was  boiled)  in  deep  bowls  and  set  in  a 
cool  place  till  jellied. — Mrs.  A.  Piepho. 

Boiled  Shoulder  of  Mutton  with  Oysters.  ; 

Trim  and  wipe  a  thick  shoulder  of  mutton,  bone  it  and  dust 
lightly  with  pepper  and  mace.  Over  the  inside  of  the  meat 
spread  two  dozen  good  sized  oysters,  roll  and  tie  tightly.  Put 
in  a  saucepan  with  1  onion,  J  teaspoon  salt,  and  1  small  red 
pepper;  cover  with  boiling  water  and  simmer  15  minutes  to 
the  pound.  Melt  together  1  tablespoon  butter  and  2  scant 
tablespoons  flour,  add  1  pint  of  the  meat  liquor,  stir  until 
smooth  and  thick,  seasoning  with  salt  and  pepper.  Then  add 
1  teaspoon  lemon  juice,  1  teaspoon  finely  chopped  parsley,  12 
oysters,  and  simmer  until  the  edges  of  the  oysters  curl.  Serve 
in  gravy  boat  with  the  meat. — Mrs.  R.  Albrecht. 

Grits. 

Cover  1  pound  steel  cut  oats  with  hot  water  and  boil  slowly 
for  1  hour  or  more,  stirring  often  and  adding  water  if  needed. 
When  oats  are  well  cooked  but  not  watery,  add  1  large  table- 
spoon of  salt  or  more,  |  teaspoon  ground  pepper,  ^  teaspoon 
ground  allspice,  1  tablespoon  of  sage,  sweet  marjoram  and 
thyme  mixed  and  mashed  very  fine,  1  small  onion  cut  fine, 
the  cracklings  from  one  dollar's  w^orth  of  leaf  lard,  and  stir 
all  well  together,  then  put  in  a  large  bowl  to  cool.  Cut  in  slices 
about  J  inch  thick  and  fry  a  nice  brown.  This  is  very  good 
for  breakfast  in  the  winter. — Mrs.  W.  H.  Jacobs. 

Country  Sausage  Meat. 
One  large  onion,  |  pound  steel  cut  oats,  whole  oats  or  barley 
may  be  used,  |  pound  pork  from  the  shoulder,  salt  to  flavor, 
4  tablespoons  or  more  of  thyme   to  taste.     Boil   meat   until 


22  PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK 


done,  then  put  it  through  meat  chopper.  Boil  oatmeal  in  the 
water  of  the  meat,  add  the  chopped  meat  and  thyme.  Set 
in  cool  place,  fry  when  served. — Mrs.  Semmlow. 

Meat  Loaf. 

Two  pounds  round  steak,  1  pound  lean  fresh  pork  ground 
fine,  1  cup  cooked  tomatoes,  2  eggs,  1  cup  cracker  crumbs, 
salt  to  taste.  Form  into  loaf,  press  hard  into  a  paper-lined 
pan.  Place  several  strips  of  bacon  on  top.  Bake  slowly  for 
i  hour  and  rapidly  for  15  minutes.  Make  gravy  from  liquid 
which  exudes. — Mrs.  Theo.  Doering. 

Meat  Balls  in  Tomato  Sauce. 

One  pound  chopped  pork  IJ  pounds  chopped  round  steak, 
add  -J  loaf  stale  bread  soaked  in  water,  then  press  out  water. 
Mix  well  and  season  with  salt,  pepper,  a  little  chopped  onion, 
if  liked,  and  1  egg.  Form  into  balls  and  drop  into  tomato 
sauce  made  as  follows :  Rub  1  quart  can  tomatoes  through 
colander,  put  back  in  sauce  pan,  add  1  bay  leaf  and  small 
onion.  When  it  boils  drop  in  the  meat  balls  and  cook  20  or 
30  minutes.     If  gravy  is  too  thin  thicken  it. — Mrs.  E.  S.  Berndt. 

Meat  Balls. 

Mix  together  equal  quantities  of  cooked  and  chopped  veal 
and  raw  chopped  beef.  Add  ^  as  much  soaked  bread  crumbs 
as  you  have  meat.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  stir  in 
a  raw  egg,  beaten.  Form  with  the  hands  into  balls,  set 
in  the  icebox  to  stiffen,  roll  in  eggs  and  cracker  crumbs,  leave 
in  the  ice  box  for  a  half  hour  longer,  then  fry  in  deep  fat. — 
Mrs.  A.  Steging. 

Sauerkraut. 

Place  sauerkraut  in  an  earthen  or  stone  crock,  with  some 
of  its  juice  and  a  good  sized  piece  of  fresh  pork  or  sausage, 
adding  a  little  water  if  dry.  Place  a  granite  pie  plate  over  H 
and  set  in  the  oven.  Bake  slowly  for  2J  hours,  removing  the 
lid  only  to  stir  a  few  times. — Mrs.  E.  S.  Berndt. 


PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK  23 

Sweetbread  Princess. 

Soak  sweetbreads  in  warm  water  for  20  minutes  and  lift 
out  in  cold  water  for  15  minutes;  drain  and  remove  the  gristle 
and  skin.  Parboil  for  a  few  minutes  then  cool.  Salt,  pepper 
and  dredge  with  flour.  Put  a  liberal  quantity  of  butter  in  a 
frying  pan,  heat  and  put  sweetbreads  in  this  for  15  minutes 
and  brown.     Serve  on  arthichoke  bottoms. — Mrs.  E.  S.  Berndt. 

Baked  Spiced  Ham. 

Soak  the  ham  over  night  in  cold  water.  Next  morning 
wash  and  scrape  it  well,  then  put  in  a  large  kettle,  cover  with 
cold  water  and  bring  slowly  to  a  boil.  Add  1  teaspoon  each 
of  whole  cloves  and  peppercorns  tied  in  thin  muslin  and,  unless 
the  ham  is  a  very  small  one,  simmer  slowly  for  2  hours.  Take 
from  the  water  and  pull  off  the  skin.  Put  in  a  pan  in  a  moder- 
ate oven  and  bake  for  2  hours,  basting  frequently ;  use  a  cup 
of  sherry,  a  little  at  a  time  until  it  is  all  used,  then  baste  with 
the  drippings  in  the  pan.  Fifteen  minutes  before  taking  from 
the  oven  sprinkle  thickly  with  brown  sugar  and  let  brown. 
Serve  hot  or  cold. — Mrs.  R.  Albrecht. 

Escalloped  Ham  and  Eggs. 

One  pint  white  sauce,  6  hard-boiled  eggs  chopped,  J  pound 
boiled  ham  chopped,  salt  and  pepper.  To  make  the  white 
sauce  melt  2  tablespoons  butter,  add  2  tablespoons  flour, 
and  then  a  pint  of  milk ;  boil  for  a  few  minutes.  In  a  buttered 
baking  dish  or  casserole  place  a  layer  of  ham,  then  a  layer  of 
eggs,  than  a  layer  of  white  sauce.  Continue  until  dish  is 
filled.  Sprinkle  top  with  bread  crumbs  and  bits  of  butter. 
Bake  in  oven  until  top  is  browned. — Alicia  K.  Steinhoff. 

Boiled  Pork  with  Cabbage. 
To  a  piece  of  lean  pork  shoulder  or  butt  add  water  so  it  is 
nearly  covered.  Cut  a  cabbage  into  quarters  and  put  with  the 
meat.  Add  salt  and  pepper,  a  pinch  of  caraway  seed  and  a 
pinch  of  sugar,  if  liked.  Boil  about  1^  to  2  hours. — Mrs. 
W.  H.  Jacobs. 


24  PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK 


Breaded  Pork  Chops. 

Trim  the  chops  neatly  and  wipe  with  a  damp  cloth.  Dip  in 
beaten  egg,  then  in  cracker  meal  and  fry  in  deep  fat.  They 
are  improved  by  the  addition  of  tomato  sauce. — Mrs.  E.  S. 
Berndt. 

Pork  and  Navy  Beans. 

Any  kind  of  pork  will  do  spareribs  are  nice  and  as  many 
beans  as  wanted.  Clean  beans,  cook  for  about  J  hour,  then 
add  1  teaspoon  baking  soda ;  let  boil  a  few  minutes  and  pour  off 
water.  Brown  meat  on  all  sides  in  frying  pan,  add  1  onion, 
beans  and  as  much  water  as  needed.  Season.  Boil  till  tender, 
adding  water  as  needed.  Beans  do  not  have  to  be  soaked  if 
put  oh  with  cold  water. — Mrs.  G.  Lemar. 

Pork  Tenderloin  Larded. 

Make  a  deep  pocket  lengthwise  in  each  tenderloin  and  fill 
with  a  dressing  made  of  1  cup  cracker  crumbs,  2  tablespoons 
butter,  melted,  seasoning  and  water  enough  to  moisten,  sew 
up  pockets  closely  and  cover  tenderloin  with  strips  of  fat  pork. 
Bake  in  a  brisk  oven  45  minutes,  basting  constantly  with  a 
brown  sauce — 2  tablespoons  butter,  2  tablespoons  flour,  ^  tea- 
spoon salt  J  teaspoon  pepper,  1  small  onion,  1^  cups  boil- 
ing water,  ^  bay  leaf.  Cook  onion  in  the  butter  until  well 
browned,  then  remove  it,  add  flour,  seasonings  and  boiling 
water.  Keep  hot  and  baste  tenderloins  frequently. — Mrs.  G. 
C.  Hass. 

Mock  Turkey. 

Two  cups  whole  wheat  bread  crumbs,  2  cups  ground  wal- 
nuts, 2  eggs  well  beaten,  1  pint  milk,  3  tablespoons  butter,  1 
tablespoon  mazola  oil,,  pinch  salt.  Put  together  in  the  order 
given.  Form  into  a  loaf  and  bake  30  minutes ;  baste  with 
butter  and  a  little  water. — Mrs.  O.  Braun. 

Mock  Turkey. 

Take  2  fitting  sparerib  pieces,  and  fill  with  prunes  (soaked 
in  water),  small  pieces  of  apples,  a  handful  of  bread  crumbs, 
sugar  and  a  little  cinnamon,  and  a  small  piece  of  butter.     Salt 


PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK  25 

the  meat,  place  filling  between  the  meat  and  sew  together. 
Put  into  a  pan  with  water  and  bake  2  hours  in  self-basting 
pan. — Mrs.  O.  Kleppisch. 

Filled  Spareribs. 

Buy  2  large  sides  of  spareribs.  Make  a  stuffing  of  diced 
apples,  I  package  raisins,  2  eggs,  bread  crumbs,  pepper,  salt, 
cinnamon  and  a  little  sugar.  Put  stuffing  between  the  ribs 
and  bake  in  oven.  Herbs  may  also  be  added  to  filling.  This  is 
a  good  substitute  for  turkey. — Mrs.  W.  H.  Jacobs. 

Veal  Croquettes. 

One  cup  cooked  veal  chopped  fine,  1  tablespoon  butter  and 
1  tablespoon  flour  mixed  cold,  a  little  salt,  pepper,  parsley, 
onion  chopped ;  then  pour  ^  cup  hot  milk  over  all,  stir  smooth, 
add  veal,  stir  and  let  cool.  Roll  balls  in  cracker  crumbs  and 
tgg  and  fry  in  hot  lard. — Mrs.  H.  G.  Tischer. 

Veal  Loaf. 

Two  eggs,  1^  pounds  chopped  veal  and  pork  a  little  celery 
or  celery  seed,  ^  cup  cracker  crumbs,  salt,  pepper,  and  milk 
enough  to  moisten.  Form  in  a  loaf,  bake,  basting  with  tomato 
juice  or  sour  cream. — Miss  L.  Gansz. 

Breast  of  Veal. 

Get  a  veal  breast  and  have  a  pocket  cut  in.  Take  a  stale 
white  bread  soak  in  water,  drain  water  off.  Beat  2  eggs  light, 
add  a  little  browned  butter,  a  little  parsley,  some  grated  nut- 
meg and  salt  to  taste.  Stir  all  together  and  fill  into  pocket ; 
sew  up  the  end  of  pocket.  Baste  with  butter  and  put  in  oven. 
— Mrs.  C.  Sommer. 

Veal  Cutlets  with  Tomato  Sauce. 

Bread  cutlets,  and  fry  brown.  Tomato  sauce :  Fry,  but  do 
not  brown,  tablespoon  fat,  1  tablespoon  flour,  1  finely  chopped 
onion,  add  1  cup  of  tomato  pulp,  which  has  been  carefully 
strained,  cup  water,  1  stalk  finely  chopped  celery.  Let  boil  a 
few  minutes  then  season  to  taste. — Mrs.  Mandel  Z. 


26  PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK 

Veal  Sandwich. 

One  slice  raw  ham,  2  large  slices  of  veal  from  the  leg,  1 
onion,  1  bay  leaf,  about  1  cup  sour  milk.  Make  a  sandwich  by 
placing  the  ham  between  the  veal  slices.  Place  in  a  small 
roaster,  adding  the  onion,  bay  leaf,  and  about  1  cup  hot 
water.  Bake  in  a  medium  oven  until  tender,  then  add  the 
sour  milk ;  bake  about  10  minutes  longer. 

This  is  also  very  good  when  prepared  with  tomatoes, 
omitting  the  sour  milk.  Place  meat  in  pan,  add  onion,  bay- 
leaf,  i  cup  hot  water  and  1  can  tomatoes.  Bake  until  tender. 
— Alicia  K.  Steinhoff. 

Veal  Collops. 

Take  neat  pieces  of  cold  veal  cut  thin,  dust  them  with  a 
seasoning  of  nutmeg,  mace,  salt  and  cayenne,  and  sprinkle 
with  a  little  lemon  juice.  Melt  butter  in  a  pan  and  fry  veal 
slightly.  Arrange  on  a  hot  dish.  To  the  butter  left  in  pan 
add  1  teaspoon  Worcestershire  sauce  or  ketchup,  |  teaspoon 
anchovy  essence.  Stir  until  thoroughly  hot.  Pour  over  veal, 
and  serve  with  little  rolls  or  fried  bacon,  fried  bread  and 
slices  of  lemon. — Mrs.  F.  Ingham. 


6i 


One  Piece"  Luncheons. 


Boston  Baked  Beans. 

Soak  1  quart  navy  beans  in  cold  water  over  night ;  boil  in 
fresh  water  next  morning.  When  they  begin  to  soften,  drain 
the  water  off  and  put  beans  in  a  bean  pot  or  a  gallon  stone 
jar.  Add  1  pound  lean  salt  pork  cut  in  pieces.  1  teaspoon  dry 
mustard  mixed  with  ^  cup  good  molasses,  1  small  can  toma- 
toes strained,  and  enough  boiling  water  to  cover  beans.  Add 
salt,  if  necessary,  and  more  water  also.  Bake  from  4  to  5  hours 
in  slow  oven. — Mrs.  Klipp. 


PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK  27 

Baked  Beans  with  Ketchup. 

After  soaking  1  quart  of  beans  for  a  while  put  on  to  boil 
with  1  pound  bacon  cut  in  small  pieces.  Boil  until  hull  begins 
to  split,  then  pour  into  baking  dish  with  all  the  liquor.  Add 
2  to  3  tablespoons  sugar  and  4  teaspoons  mustard.  Bake  about 
2  hours  or  until  well  done.  Last  of  all  add  a  25-cent  bottle  of 
Heinz  ketchup. — Mrs.  Albrecht. 

Creamed  Chipped  Beef  with  Noodles. 

Two  cups  boiled  noodles,  2  cups  milk,  1  cup  chipped  beef,  1 
tablespoon  butter,  2  tablespoons  flour.  Mix  flour  and  butter 
together,  add  milk,  cook  until  creamy,  then  add  the  beef  and 
lastly  the  noodles. — Mrs.  H.  A.  Zorn. 

Chili  Con  Carne. 

One-half  pound  round  steak  cut  into  cubes,  J  pound  pork 
cut  in  cubes,  1  carrot  diced,  1  onion  diced,  2  potatoes  diced, 
1  green  pepper,  1  pinch  red  pepper.  Simmer  till  tender;  then 
add  1  can  red  kidney  beans  drained,  1  can  tomato  soup,  1  stalk 
celery.  If  liked,  3  slices  of  bacon,  cut  in  cubes  and  fried  brown, 
may  be  added  with  the  bacon  fat. — Miss  A.  H.  Rehm. 

Chili  Con  Came. 

Three-quarter  pound  beef,  either  shoulder  or  end  of  the 
round,  5  cent  soup  bone,  a  No.  2  can  of  tomatoes,  IJ  cups  of 
chili  beans,  or  kidney  beans.  Place  soup  bone  in  pot  and 
cover  with  water;  cook  slowly  like  soup.  Cut  beef  into  very 
small  pieces,  fry  until  brown,  add  water  and  stew  about  an 
hour.  Remove  bone  from  soup,  cut  off  meat  if  any  and  put 
back  in  the  pot,  add  the  stewed  beef  with  the  gravy,  small 
piece  of  onion,  salt,  pepper,  and  the  heated  tomatoes.  Put 
the  beans  on  to  cook  in  a  separate  pot  at  the  same  time  you 
cook  the  soup  bone.  Allow  the  beans  to  boil  up,  pour  water 
off  and  add  fresh  water ;  cook  till  half  done.  Then  stir  beans 
into  meat  and  tomatoe  mixture,  add  red  pepper  to  taste,  and 
cook  till  beans  are  done. — Mrs.  Arthur  Emde. 


28  PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK 

Chop  Suey. 

Cut  into  small  pieces  1  pound  each  of  steak,  veal  shoulder, 
and  pork  shoulder.  Brown  a  cup  of  onion  in  butter  and  add 
meat.  When  hrown  add  2  stalks  celery,  1  can  mushrooms,  1 
tablespoon  molasses,  a  little  salt  and  1  cup  water.  Let  it  stew 
over  a  slow  fire  IJ  hours,  adding  water  as  needed. — Mrs.  H.  A. 
Zorn. 

Chop  Suey. 

Cut  into  small  pieces  1  pound  pork  from  the  shoulder  and 

1  pound  veal  from  the  leg.  Mix  and  fry  slowly  for  ^  hour. 
Then  add  2  tablespoons  molasses  and  small  teaspoon  salt. 
Fry  10  minutes  more  then  add  2  cups  onions  cut  into  eighths, 

2  cups  celery  cut  into  small  pieces  and  fry  all  for  20  minutes. 
Sprinkle  with  flour  several  times  during  process.  Add  a  little 
water,  bring  to  a  boil  and  serve  with  steamed  rice. — Mrs.  P. 
Metzger. 

Potato  Loaf  with  Bacon  and  Peas. 

Rub  a  bread  tin  thoroughly  with  bacon  drippings,  then 
thickly  as  possible  with  dried  bread  crumbs.  Pack  in  gently 
1  quart  of  mashed  potatoes  and  bake  J  hour  in  quick  oven. 
Unmold  on  platter,  serve  with  a  garnish  on  top  of  fried  or 
broiled  bacon  and  radish  roses.  Surround  with  peas. — Mrs.  A. 
J.  Koehneke. 

Sunday  Evening  Supper. 

Raw  cabbage  cut  fine  mixed  with  mayonnaise  dressing. 
Form  mountain  on  a  large  chop  plate,  place  frankfurters 
around  standing  upward  and  sweet  potato  balls  around  the 
edge. — Mrs.  O.  Kleppisch. 

Stuffed  Cabbage. 

Grind  together  1  pound  round  steak  and  1  cup  bread 
crumbs  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Cut  out  the  inside 
of  a  small  head  of  cabbage  and  fill  with  the  meat  and  bread 
crumbs,  then  tie  it  up  in  a  napkin  and  boil  for  2  hours.  Take 
4  potatoes,  1  onion,  1  carrot  and  cut  in  cubes ;  place  these  in 
the  kettle  with  cabbage  and  meat,  and  boil  until  tender.     Re- 


PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK  ,  -        29 

move  napkin  and  cut  cabbage  and  meat  in  slices.  Arrange 
vegetables  around  the  meat  and  make  a  gravy  of  1  cup  milk, 
1  cup  stock  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper  and  parsley  cut  fine. 
Thicken  w^ith  1  tablespoon  flour  and  pour  over  meat. — Mrs. 
Chas.  Hemler. 

Filled  Cabbage  Leaves. 

One  medium  head  of  cabbage,  1  cup  rice,  1  small  onion,  1^ 
pounds  chopped  meat.  Soak  rice  for  several  hours  in  warm 
water.  Season  meat  as  for  meat  balls,  and  add  rice.  Separate 
cabbage  and  scald  the  leaves  until  they  are  soft.  Place  on 
each  loaf  some  of  the  meat  and  rice  mixture,  then  roll  up  leaf 
and  pin  together  with  toothpicks.  Brown  some  flour  in  a 
pan,  add  water  enough  to  make  a  nice  gravy,  season ;  then 
add  the  onion,  the  cabbage  rolls,  rest  of  the  cabbage  cut  up 
fine,  a  few  caraway  seeds  and  cook  slowly  until  done. — Mrs. 
H.  Eichelkraut. 

Scalloped  Ham. 

Cut  raw  ham  into  small  pieces  and  place  in  baking  dish. 
On  top  of  ham,  place  small  round  potatoes.  Season  with 
pepper,  pour  in  enough  milk  to  cover  potatoes  and  bake  slowly 
about  1  hour. — Alicia  K.  Steinhoff. 

Scalloped  Ham  with  Vegetables. 

Two  slices  ham,  large  potatoes  sliced,  2  carrots  sliced,  1 
onion  sliced,  1  bunch  parsley,  1  pint  milk,  salt  and  pepper. 
Put  layer  of  vegetables  in  buttered  baking  dish,  then  a  layer 
of  ham,  rest  of  vegetables  and  cover  with  ham.  Pour  milk 
over  all  and  bake  in  slow  oven. — Helen  Lindau. 

One  Pan  Pork  Chop  Dinner. 

Six  or  more  lean  pork  chops,  6  medium  sized  peeled  sweet 
or  Irish  potatoes,  6  onions  if  liked,  6  peeled,  cored  and  halved 
apples,  1^  cups  stock  or  boiling  water.  Put  pork  chops  in 
roasting  pan,  arrange  potatoes,  onions  and  apples  around  and 
over  them,  add  stock  or  water,  season  with  salt  and  pepper 
and  bake  in  moderate  oven  for  fully  1^  hours.  Turn  vege- 
tables and  baste  often. — Mrs.  E.  S.  Berndt. 


30  PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK 

Cauliflower  with  Sausages. 
Wash  well  and  separate  a  cauliflower.  Boil  till  tender, 
being  careful  to  keep  each  flowerlet  whole.  Then  stir  gently 
in  a  cream  sauce  till  each  peace  is  well  coated.  Put  on  round 
chop  plate  and  surround  with  tiny  sausages  which  have  been 
baked  or  fried  brown. — AHcia  K.  Steinhoff. 

Veal  Goulash. 

Fry  1  tablespoon  of  chopped  onion  golden  brown  in  1 
tablespoon  of  butter,  add  1  pound  of  lean  veal  cut  into  inch 
pieces,  i  teaspoon  salt,  1  teaspoon  paprika,  1  tablespoon  flour, 
and  stir  until  slightly  browned.  Then  add  1  cup  of  stock  or 
water,  cover  and  simmer  for  1  hour.  Add  1  cup  of  diced  raw 
potatoes,  cook  15  minutes  longer  and  serve. — Mrs.  R.  Albrecht. 

Stewed  Pork  with  Vegetables. 

Boil  2  pounds  of  lean  pork  about  Jhour,  then  add  1  quart 
of  more  of  carrots  diced  and  boil  about  |  hour  more.  Then 
add  1  quart  of  more  potatoes  diced,  1  small  onion  cut  fine, 
salt  and  pepper,  and  boil  ^  hour  more  till  tender.  Thicken 
with  a  little  cornstarch  dissolved  in  milk  or  water,  or  serve 
without  thickening. — Mrs.  W.  H.  Jacobs. 

,  Baked  Hash. 

Butter  a  baking  dish  or  casserole,  put  in  a  layer  of  sliced 
potatoes,  then  a  layer  of  chopped  meat  left-overs  and  a  few 
slices  of  onion ;  repeat  alternately  until  all  is  used.  Pour  over 
all  2  well  beaten  eggs  and  enough  milk  to  cover.  Bake  about 
30  to  45  minutes. — Olga  T.  Bohnsack. 

Spanish  Spaghetti. 

One  package  of  spaghetti,  1  can  of  tomatoes,  2  large 
onions  cut  into  small  dice,  1  large  green  pepper  cut  into  dice, 
4  sHces  of  bacon  cut  in  squares,  1  pound  of  ground  beef.  Boil 
spaghetti  in  boiling  salt  water  till  tender;  drain  and  blanch  in 
cold  water.  Fry  bacon  in  spider.  Salt  and  pepper  beef  and 
shape  into  small  balls,  about  size  of  walnut.     Fry  them  in 


PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK  31 

bacon  grease ;  when  meat  is  browned,  add  onions  and  peppers 
and  fry  about  15  minutes.  Then  pour  with  tomatoes  over 
spaghetti  which  has  been  put  in  sauce  pan;  let  simmer  15  to 
20  minutes.  When  serving  sprinkle  with  grated  cheese. — 
Mrs.  W.  H.  Mampe. 

Sausage  in  Potato  Boxes. 

Parboil  the  sausages  2  minutes,  pricking  them  in  a  few 
places  with  a  large  darning  needle.  Arrange  in  a  tin  pan  in 
a  close  row  and  set  in  the  oven  to  finish  cooking  and  brown. 
Press  hot  boiled  potatoes  through  a  ricer  on  to  a  heated  platter 
and  mold  quickly  with  2  spoons  into  a  square  shape,  hollow- 
ing the  center  and  making  the  sides  straight.  Drain  the  sau- 
sages and  put  in  boxes,  arranging  in  a  row ;  serve  hot.  Garnish 
with  fried  tomatoes  and  a  few  sprigs  of  parsley. — Mrs.  E.  S. 
Berndt. 

Irish  Stew. 

Take  1 J  pounds  each  of  beef  and  lamb,  cut  in  cubes ;  put 
on  to  boil  with  enough  water  to  cover  and  season  to  taste. 
Prepare  8  small  sized  onions,  6  small  carrots,  12  potatoes,  cut 
in  cubes.  When  meat  is  partly  done,  skim  carefully  and  add 
vegetables.  Let  stew  until  tender.  Thicken  gravy  if  desired. 
— Mrs.  Mandel  Z. 

Casey's  Delight. 

Six  carrots,  6  potatoes,  6  onions ;  cover  with  water  and 
boil  until  done.  Form  1  pound  chopped  round  steak  in  balls 
size  of  an  egg,  season  and  drop  in  stew ;  bqil  10  minutes.  Add 
1  tablespoon  flour,  blend  with  1  tablespoon  butter. — Helen 
Lindau. 

Luncheon  Corn  Dish. 

One  can  corn,  J  pound  chopped  (not  ground)  boiled  ham, 
i  cup  chopped  celery,  1  tablespoon  chopped  green  pepper,  salt 
and  pepper.  Mix  all  together  with  a  thick  white  sauce,  place 
in  casserole  and  bake  in  oven.  Garnish  with  sliced  hard-boiled 
eggs. — Lucia  Koke  Knowlton. 


32  PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK 

Hot  Sweetbreads. 

Boil  piece  of  green  pepper,  tops  of  some  celery  with  1  pound 
sweetbreads ;  let  partly  cool  in  water,  then  pick  sweetbreads 
in  small  pieces,  remove  skin,  and  strain  stock.  Chop  a  cup  of 
oysters  fine ;  blend  2  tablespoons  butter  with  flour  and  the 
strained  stock,  add  J  cup  cream ;  just  boil  up  and  fill  in 
toasted  bread  squares  made  by  hollowing  out  slices  of  bread 
of  2-inch  thickness.  Remove  crust,  leave  ^-inch  bottom  and 
fill  with  sweetbreads.  Serve  with  noodles  and  French  peas, 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste ;  add  a  little  onion  salt. — Ada  Wilson 
Bohnsack. 

Sauted  Kidney. 

Skin  and  core  kidneys  and  cut  them  in  slices.  Melt  1  ounce 
butter  in  a  pan  and  fry  in  this  1  onion  minced.  Put  in  the 
kidneys  and  fry  for  about  5  minutes,  tossing  them  occasionally. 
Sprinkle  in  rather  less  than  1  ounce  of  flour,  stir  it  all  for  3 
or  4  minutes  longer;  add  1  gill  brown  stock,  ^  cup  vinegar, 
and  stir  until  it  boils,  then  simmer  gently  for  10  minutes.  Serve 
on  a  wall  of  mashed  potatoes  with  sauce  around.  Beef  kid- 
neys will  answer  for  this  dish,  only  requiring  to  simmer  longer 
in  the  gravy. — Mrs.  E.  S.  Berndt. 

Stuffed  Peppers  a  La  Josephine. 

Mix  well  together  1  pound  chopped  beef,  8  cents  salt-pork 
cut  in  cubes,  J  teaspoon  cloves,  ^  teaspoon  white  pepper,  1 
teaspoon  salt,  and  ^  cup  raw  rice.  Cut  the  tops  off  6  green 
peppers,  remove  seeds,  and  stuff  with  the  mixture.  Make  meat 
balls  out  of  the  filling  that  is  left.  Into  an  iron  pot  put  1 
tablespoon  butter,  1  tablespoon  flour,  an  onion,  and  let  brown. 
Then  add  1  cup  water ;  when  smooth  add  1  can  strained  toma- 
toes. Put  the  peppers  and  meat  balls  in  the  gravy  and  let 
simmer  for  1  hour. — Mrs.  O'Rourke. 


PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK  33 


Vegetables 


Asparagus  Pudding. 

Twenty-five  heads  of  asparagus,  3  eggs,  8  tablespoons  flour, 
2  large  tablespoons  butter,  2  large  tablespoons  minced  ham,  3 
tablespoons  milk,  salt  and  pepper.  Break  off  the  green  heads 
as  far  as  it  is  tender  in  ^  inch  pieces,  add  the  beaten  eggs, 
sift  in  the  flour,  add  ham,  mix  in  the  butter  which  must  be 
melted  but  not  hot,  a  little  at  a  time,  add  milk  and  seasoning. 
Pour  into  well  buttered  mould,  tie  up  carefully  and  plunge 
into  boiling  water.  Boil  2  hours.  Water  must  be  kept  boil- 
ing constantly.  Will  serve  4  or  5  persons.  Excellent  with 
roast  meat. — Mrs.  F.  Ingham. 

Creamed  Asparagus. 

Three  tablespoons  butter,  when  melted  add  2i  tablespoons 
flour,  J  teaspoon  salt  and  a  few  grains  cayenne.  When  smooth 
add  1  cup  milk  slowly,  stirring  until  sauce  is  boiled.  Then  add 
1  can  asparagus  tips  cut  in  pieces  and  the  liquor  from  the 
can,  4  hard  boiled  eggs,  cut  lengthwise  and  1  pimento  cut  in 
squares. — Olga  T.  Bohnsack. 

Steamed  Fried  Cabbage. 

Fifteen  minute  dish.  Chop  cabbage  fine,  fry  some  good 
bacon,  remove  the  slices,  then  put  the  cabbage  in  the  bacon 
grease.  Cook,  stirring  often.  When  done,  add  i  cup  of 
cream.     Serve  hot. — Mrs.  Anna  A.  Jaekel. 

Princess  Cabbage. 

Boil  a  cabbage  15  minutes  in  boiling  water,  drain,  add  fresh 
water  and  boil  until  tender.  Then  chop  fine,  add  3  tablespoons 
milk,  or  cream,  1  tablespoon  butter,  2  beaten  eggs,  salt  and 
pepper.     Mix  well  and  bake  brown. — Helen  Lindau. 

Red  Cabbage. 

Cut  1  head  cabbage  fine,  add  3  good  sized  sour  apples, 
which  have  been  peeled  and  chopped  fine,  enough  water  to 


34  PILGRIM  GOOK  BOOK 

cover,  ^  pound  lean  bac©n,  |  cup  vinegar,  ]  cup  sugar,  and 
let  simmer  from  2}  to  3  hours.  Eat  with  pork  roast. — Mrs. 
A.   Piepho. 

Red  Cabbage  (French  Style). 

Choose  a  medium  sized,  very  firm  head  of  cabbage  and 
shave  it  up  as  for  cold  slaw^.  In  a  large  sauce  pan  put  2  table- 
spoons butter,  one  scant  tablespoon  sugar,  ^  of  a  cup  of  vine- 
gar, i  dozen  cloves  (tied  in  a  piece  of  muslin),  1  teaspoon  salt, 
and  I  teaspoon  pepper.  When  steaming  add  the  cabbage, 
cover  closely  and  cook  until  tender,  about  1  hour. — Mrs. 
Albrecht. 

Stuffed  Cabbage. 

After  cutting  out  the  root  and  heart  from  a  good  sized 
cabbage  head,  pick  off  several  of  the  outer  leaves  and  boil  the 
remainder  in  salted  water  for  10  to  12  minutes ;  then  remove 
it  from  the  fire,  open  the  leaves  carefully,  so  as  not  to  break 
them ;  then  season  the  cabbage  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  fill 
the  insides  of  the  leaves  with  a  nice  stuffing  or  sausage  force- 
meat. Close  them  up,  and  tie  the  cabbage  so  that  none  of 
the  stufifing  escapes ;  then  lay  it  in  a  pan ;  add  1  cup  of  car- 
rots, 1  cup  of  onions,  a  piece  of  pork,  and  1  cupful  of  white 
broth.  Cover  with  a  little  fat  from  the  soup  stock ;  lay  a  but- 
tered paper  on  top  and  let  cook  for  1  hour  in  Oven,  basting  it 
occasionally. — Mrs.  R.  Albrecht. 

Austrian  Carrots. 

Scrape  1  quart  carrots  and  cut  into  match  sticks ;  then 
boil  in  salted  water  till  tender.  Drain  off  the  water,  add  i 
cup  vinegar,  f  cup  sugar  and  1  large  tablespoon  butter.  Cook 
the  carrots  till  they  have  a  clear,  transparent  appearance ; 
then  serve. — Alicia  K.  Steinhoff. 

Sweet  Corn  Pudding. 

One  can  sweet  corn,  3  eggs  beaten  light,  3  tablespoons 
melted  butter,  |  cup  milk,  2  tablespoons  flour,  salt  and  pepper. 
Pour  mixture  in  buttered  baking  dish  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven 
I  of  an  hour. — Mrs.  R.  J.  Frank. 


PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK  35 

Fried  Corn. 

Cut  the  corn  from  the  cob  and  fry  in  a  little  butter,  stir 
often,  add  salt  and  pepper  and  when  nicely  browned  add  a 
little  cream.     Do  not  boil  after  the  cream  is  added. 

Corn  Fritters. 
One  can  corn,  1  cup  flour,  2  eggs,  1  teaspoon  baking  pow- 
der, 1  teaspoon  salt.  Sift  flour,  salt  and  baking  powder  to- 
gether, beat  the  eggs  and  add  them  to  corn,  add  flour  and  drop 
by  spoonfuls  in  hot  fat.  Fry  until  brown  and  serve  hot. — Miss 
Clara  Wollerman. 

Eggplant. 

One  medium  sized  eggplant,  1  large  onion,  1  tomato,  1  or 
2  white  tender  sprays  of  celery,  ^  cup  of  rice,  lump  of  butter 
the  size  of  an  tgg.  Cut  the  eggplant  into  small  pieces  and 
boil  10  minutes,  drain  thoroughly,  then  add  the  onion,  celery 
and  tomato,  chopped  as  fine  as  possible ;  then  add  the  rice  and 
about  a  quart  of  water  boiling  hot.  Cook  about  1^  hours, 
then  add  the  butter  and  a  little  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  then 
let  it  simmer  for  20  minutes. — Mrs.  D.  Wagner. 

Egg  Plant  Pudding. 
Take  1^  pounds  of  beef,  pork  or  veal  chopped  and  2  egg 
plants.  Cut  egg  plants  in  slices,  salt,  dredge  in  flour,  and  fry 
them.  Put  a  layer  of  egg  plant  in  a  pan,  then  a  layer  of  meat 
and  continue  till  it  is  all  used.  Add  either  fresh  or  canned 
tomatoes,  strained,  salt  and  pepper  and  roast  in  oven. — Mrs. 
Roth. 

Stuffed  Egg  Plant. 

Cut  a  good  sized  egg  plant  into  halves  and  scoop  out  the 
center,  leaving  a  wall  ^  inch  in  thickness.  To  the  portion 
taken  out  add  3  peeled  tomatoes  and  chop  together.  Season 
w^ith  1  teaspoon  finely  chopped  onion  1  teaspoon  salt,  J  tea- 
spoon pepper,  a  pinch  of  nutmeg  and  2  tablespoons  of  fine 
bread  crumbs.  Fill  the  shells  with  the  mixture,  pour  over 
each  half  1  tablespoon  melted  butter,  sprinkle  with  bread 
crumbs  and  bake  |  hour  in  a  moderate  oven. — Mrs.  R. 
Albrecht. 


36  PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK 

Creamed  Macaroni. 
Put  li  cups  broken  macaroni  in  boiling,  salted  water  and 
boil  20  minutes.  Remove  from  fire,  add  1  tablespoon  grated 
cheese,  a  little  pepper,  butter  size  of  an  Qgg,  and  1  cup  boiling 
milk.  Bake  in  hot  oven  for  30  minutes  and  serve  in  vegtable 
dishes.  Cut  2  hard  boiled  eggs  in  two,  place  a  half  on  each 
dish  in  center  of  macaroni  and  sprinkle  cut  parsley  around 
egg.     This  will  serve  4  persons. — Mrs.  M.  Eckhart. 

Potato  Puff. 

Two  cups  cold  mashed  potatoes.  Beat  to  a  white  cream 
with  2  tablespoons  melted  butter.  Add  2  eggs  whipped  very 
light  and  a  scant  2  cups  of  cream  or  milk,  salting  to  taste. 
Beat  all  well,  pour  into  dish  and  bake  in  hot  oven  till  nicely 
browned.  Should  come  out  light,  puffy  and  delectable. — Mrs. 
E.  H.  Pierce. 

Potato  Balls. 

For  this  you  will  need  a  vegetable  cutter.  Select  large 
potatoes,  pare  them  and  press  the  vegtable  cutter  in  one  end 
of  the  potato.  When  all  are  cut,  soak  them  in  cold  water  a 
few  minutes ;  drain,  drop  them  into  gently  boiling  water  and 
cook  12  minutes.  Drain  off  the  water,  add  1  tablespoon  butter, 
a  little  salt  and  pepper  and  toss  the  potatoes  over  the  fire 
until  covered  with  the  melted  butter.  Sprinkle  with  minced 
parsley  and  serve  very  hot. — Mrs.   E.   S.   Berndt. 

A  Toothsome  Potato  Dish. 
Slice  a  large  white  onion  into  a  vegetable  dish ;  lay  on  the 
slices  of  onion  hot  boiled  potatoes  sliced ;  put  on  the  potatoes  a 
layer  of  bacon  fried  crisp.  Pour  over  all  4  tablespoons  hot 
bacon  grease,  set  in  the  oven  for  only  a  few  minutes,  then 
serve. — Mrs.  E,  S.  Berndt. 

Quick  Potatoes. 
Peel  potatoes,  slice  very  thin  and  drop  into  boiling  water. 
Let  boil  10  minutes;  drain,  add  salt,  pepper,  a  little  butter  and 
J  or  i  cup  hot  cream  according  to  quantity  of  potatoes. 
Chopped  parsley  may  also  be  added.  Serve  at  once. — Alicia  K. 
Steinhoff. 


PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK  Zl 

Sweet  Potatoes  with  Cream. 
Wash  and  scrub  4  large  sweet  potatoes  and  boil  them. 
When  done  scrape  off  the  skin,  cut  into  quarters  or  eighths 
and  put  them  in  a  saucepan  with  1  heaping  tablespoon  butter, 
\  teaspoon  salt,  \  teaspoon  pepper,  1  tablespoon  sugar  and 
I  cup  of  rich  cream.  Cover  closely  and  stand  at  the  side  of 
the  fire  for  15  minutes,  shaking  frequently. — Mrs.  R.  Albrecht. 

Candied  Sweet  Potatoes. 
Wash,  scrub  and  parboil  the  potatoes.  Scrape  off  the  skin 
and  cut  them  into  -J-inch  slices.  Arrange  in  layers  in  a 
greased  baking  dish,  putting  over  each  layer  bits  of  butter,  a 
pinch  of  salt,  a  little  granulated  sugar  and  a  few  drops  of 
water.  For  a  good  dishful  about  |  of  a  cup  of  sugar,  2  table- 
spoons butter  and  2  tablespoons  w^ater  will  be  needed.  Bake 
slowly  in  a  moderate  oven  until  they  are  browned  on  top  and 
candied  all  through ;  this  will  take  about  an  hour. — Mrs.  R. 
Albrecht. 

Stuffed  Peppers. 

Choose  red  or  green  peppers  of  even  size  and  of  round 
rather  than  long  shape.  Cut  off  the  tops,  remove  seeds  and 
veins,  cover  with  boiling  water  and  parboil  for  5  minutes. 
Drain,  fill  with  the  stuffing,  arrange  in  a  baking  dish,  pour  in 
any  good  stock  \  inch  deep  and  bake  30  minutes  in  a  hot 
oven. 

Stuffing. — Chop  very  fine  sufficient  cold  roast  chicken  to 
make  |  cupful.  Add  \\  cups  soaked  bread  crumbs,  1  large 
tomato  skinned  and  cut  fine  or  \  cup  canned  tomato,  \ 
medium  sized  onion  chopped  fine,  1  heaping  tablespoon  butter 
melted,  1  tablespoon  chopped  parsley,  1  raw  ^ZZ^  ^^<^  3.  scant 
i  teaspoon  salt. — Mrs.  R.  Albrecht. 

Stuffed  Green  Peppers. 

Six  large  green  peppers,  1  pound  chopped  beef,  \  pound 
chopped  pork.  Cut  tops  off  peppers,  remove  seeds  and  white 
pulp.  Put  them  in  dish,  scald  with  hot  water  and  let  stand 
10  minutes.     Add  a  little  soaked  white  bread  to  keep  meat 


38  PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK 

together  and  stuff  peppers  with  the  mixture.  Cook  1  hour  in 
following  sauce :  Melt,  but  do  not  brown,  1  tablespoon  but- 
ter, add  1  heaping  cooking  spoon  flour,  1  can  tomatoes,  2  table- 
spoons sugar  and  salt  to  taste.  Put  peppers  in  sauce  and  add 
enough  water  to  float  peppers  in  pot. — Mrs.  R.  Liss. 

Green  Peas  with  Bacon. 

Two  quarts  shelled  green  peas,  2  onions,  1  handful  parsley, 
2  pounds  bacon,  2  tablespoons  flour,  two  glasses  water,  salt 
and  pepper  to  taste.  Cut  the  bacon  in  dices  and  brown  in  a 
sauce  pan ;  sprinkle  with  flour ;  then  add  the  water,  peas, 
onions  (whole),  parsley  (tied),  and  cook  for  50  minutes. 
When  done  take  out  onions  and  parsley  and  serve. 

Turnip  Cups  with  Peas. 
Steam  or  boil  medium  sized  turnips  till  tender;  scoop  out 
center  till  only  a  shell  remains.  Have  ready  green  peas  cooked 
tender  or  use  canned  peas,  to  which  have  been  added  butter, 
salt  and  pepper.  Fill  the  turnip  cups  with  peas  and  pour 
over  all  a  white  sauce.  Carrots  may  be  used  instead  of  tur- 
nips. Use  the  scooped  out  portion  in  soup  or  vegetable  salad. 
— Alicia  K.  Steinhoff. 

Rice  and  Cheese. 
One-half  cup  rice,  J  pound  American  cheese,  |  cup  strained 
tomatoes,  a  few  bread  crumbs.  Cook  rice  in  salt  water. 
When  tender  place  a  layer  in  pan,  then  a  layer  of  cheese 
cubes,  another  layer  of  rice,  tomatoes,  dot  top  w^th  butter, 
sprinkle  with  bread  crumbs  and  bake  20  minutes  in  a  rather 
hot  oven.     Serve  hot. — Mrs.  W.  Schilke. 

Swiss  Chard. 

Wash  I  peck  swiss  chard  till  clean  and  let  stand  in  cold 
water  for  3  to  4  hours.  Then  boil  for  25  minutes,  drain  and 
chop  fine.  Cut  salt  pork  or  bacon  in  cubes  and  fry  brown. 
Pour  drippings  and  cubes  over  swiss  chard  and  serve.  Spin- 
ach can  also  be  prepared  in  this  way. — Josephine  O'Rourke. 


PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK  39 


Baked  Tomatoes. 
Wash  6  tomatoes,  cut  a  thin  sUce  from  the  stem  end  and 
scoop  out  all  the  pulp.  Sprinkle  the  inside  of  tomatoes  with 
salt.  Mix  the  pulp  with  6  crackers  rolled  fine,  salt  and  pepper 
to  taste  and  onions  chopped  fine,  if  liked.  Fill  the  tomatoes 
with  this  mixture,  place  |  teaspoon  butter  on  top  of  each  and 
bake  from  15  to  20  minutes.  Garnish  with  boiled  rice  and  the 
melted  butter  left  from  baked  tomatoes. — Mrs.  F.  Kasang. 

Stuffed  Tomatoes. 

Use  firm  ripe  tomatoes.  Wash  and  wipe  them  dry,  and  cut 
a  small  hole  in  the  blossom  end  and  remove  the  inside,  being 
careful  not  to  break  the  sides.  Mince  finely  some  boiled  or 
roasted  chicken  or  veal,  add  the  tomato  pulp,  chopped  nuts, 
a  little  celery  and  onion,  and  season  with  salt,  cayenne,  lemon 
juice  and  parsley;  and  add  sufficient  bread  crumbs  to  make 
a  rather  stiff  mixture.  Stuff  the  tomatoes  with  the  mixture, 
place  in  well  buttered  pan,  and  bake  until  tender,  basting  with 
melted  butter.  Dish  carefully  and  garnish  with  parsley. — 
Mrs.  Hunt. 

Filled  Tomatoes. 

Twelve  ripe,  firm  tomatoes,  1  pound  chopped  meat  (pork 
and  beef),  1  tablespoon  raw  rice,  1  onion,  a  little  parsley  cut 
fine,  1  or  2  eggs,  salt  and  pepper.  Wash  tomatoes,  cut  top 
open,  but  not  off,  leaving  a  lid,  scoop  out  insides ;  put  pulp 
taken  out  in  pan  and  stew.  Mix  meat,  onion,  rice,  eggs  and 
seasoning  together  and  fill  the  tomatoes,  but  not  too  full. 
Push  down  lid  and  set  all  in  a  large  kettle  with  a  wide  bot- 
tom. Brown  2  tablespoons  butter,  2  heaping  tablespoons  flour 
with  a  little  onion ;  add  the  tomatoes  that  have  been  stewing 
and  stir  until  smooth.  Strain  and  pour  over  the  filled  toma- 
toes ;  simmer  very  slowly  until  done.  Add  a  little  more  water 
if  needed  and  seasoning.  Do  not  stir  but  give  the  kettle  a  few 
turns  so  it  will  not  burn. — Mrs.  G.  Lemar. 

Meatless  Loaf. 

One  cup  chopped  carrots,  1  cup  bread  crumbs,  1  cup 
chopped  nuts,  1  cup  chopped  tomatoes.  Season  to  taste,  put 
in  bread  pan  and  bake  f  hour. — Mrs.  O.  T.  Bohnsack. 


40  PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK 

* 

Salads 

Thousand  Island  Dressing. 

One  t^^  yolk,  pinch  of  salt,  cup  of  oil,  3  tablespoons  chili 
sauce,  1  green  pepper.  Beat  ^gg  thoroughly,  add  oil  slowly 
and  continue  beating  constantly  in  one  direction.  Thin  with 
cream  and  add  chili  sauce  and  peppers  chopped  fine. — Mrs. 
H.  Trippler. 

Thousand  Island  Dressing. 

Two  teaspoons  Worcestershire  sauce,  2  teaspoons  catsup, 
2  teaspoons  sugar,  2  teaspoons  of  vinegar,  a  pinch  of  salt. 
Shake  in  paprika,  \  cup  of  olive  oil,  small  piece  of  ice. — 
Johanna  Kretchmer. 

Mayonnaise  Dressing. 

To  the  yolks  of  4  eggs  add  slowly  4  tablespoons  oil,  then  4 
tablespoons  vinegar.  Stir  over  the  fire  till  it  thickens ;  when 
cooled  add  4  tablespoons  oil,  1  teaspoon  salt,  2  teaspoons  sugar, 
mustard  to  taste  and  lastly  1  cup  whipped  cream.  Butter  may 
be  used  instead  of  oil.  This  makes  quite  a  little. — Mrs.  H.  G. 
Tischer. 

French  Dressing. 

Rub  the  bowl  with  a  bruised  clove  of  garlic ;  add  |  teaspoon 
salt,  ^  teaspoon  pepper,  J  teaspoon  paprika,  and  6  tablespoons 
olive  oil.  Beat  thoroughly,  then  add  2  to  3  tablespoons  vine- 
gar slowly  and  continue  beating  until  thickened.  A  piece  of 
ice  put  into  the  bowl  while  stirring  will  aid  in  chilling  the 
mixture. — Alicia  K.   Steinhoflf. 

Spanish  Dressing. 

To  a  French  Dressing  add  1  mild  green  pepper  finely 
chopped,  and  2  tablespoons  finely  chopped  Spanish  onion. — 
Alicia  K.  Steinhoff. 

Russian  Salad  Dressing. 

To  a  French  Dressing  add  the  yolks  of  2  hard  boiled  eggs 
chopped,  1  green  pepper  chopped,  and  1  tablespoon  catsup. 
Just  before  serving  beat  hard  for  a  few  minutes. — Alicia  K. 
Steinhoff. 


PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK  41 


Fruit  Salad  Dressing. 

Beat  4  egg  yolks  with  J  cup  honey  and  the  grated  rind  and 
juice  of  1  lemon  until  light.  Put  in  double  boiler  and  boil 
until  thick;  when  nearly  cold  add  12  marshmallows  cut  in 
pieces.  Let  stand  until  cold.  When  ready  to  serve  add  ^ 
pint  whipping  cream  which  has  been  whipped  stiff. — Mrs.  W. 
Mampe. 

Fruit  Salad  Dressing. 

One  egg,  2  level  tablespoons  sugar,  2  level  tablespoons 
lemon  juice,  and  2  level  tablespoons  pineapple  or  orange  juice. 
Beat  the  egg,  add  sugar  and  fruit  juices  and  cook  in  a  double 
boiler,  stirring  constantly  until  thickened.  Cool  and  combine 
with  salad.  Excellent  with  any  combination  of  fruits. — Mrs. 
H.  A.  Zorn. 

Fruit  Salad  Dressing. 

The  juice  of  3  lemons,  juice  of  2  oranges,  3  eggs,  J  cup 
sugar.  Boil  slowly  till  clear  and  add  1  cup  whipped  cream. 
Delicious. — Mrs.  Chas.  North. 

Salad  Dressing. 

One-half  teaspoon  paprika,  J  teaspoon  salt,  J  teaspoon  black 
pepper,  2  teaspoons  powdered  sugar,  2  tablespoons  olive  oil, 
3  tablespoons  vinegar.  Mix  together  and  chill  with  ice  be- 
fore adding  vinegar. — Mrs.  F.  Neyendorf. 

Cream  Dressing. 

Mix  1  teaspoonful  of  salt,  1  teaspoonful  of  flour,  1  tea- 
spoonful  mustard,  1  tablespoonful  of  sugar  and  2  tablespoonful 
of  butter.  Then  add  the  beaten  yolks  of  2  eggs,  |  cup  cream 
and  lastly  J  cup  vinegar ;  cook  over  hot  water  until  it  thickens. 
Chill  before  using. — Mrs.  Anna  A.  Jaekel. 

Nonpareil  Salad  Dressing. 

Yolks  of  8  eggs  well  beaten,  1  cupful  of  white  sugar,  ^ 
cup  of  rich  cream,  1  tablespoon  of  mustard,  1  tablespoon  salt, 
1  tablespoon  pepper.  Mix  thoroughly,  then  put  over  fire  1^ 
pints  vinegar  and  J  cupful  butter.     If  vinegar  is  too  strong 


42  PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK 

dilute  with  water.  Let  boil,  then  pour  over  the  other  in- 
gredients, stirring  all  the  time.  Put  back  over  the  fire  and 
let  boil  for  15  minutes. Mrs.  Hunt. 

Salad  Dressing. 

Yolks  of  4  eggs  beaten  light,  1  tablespoon  sugar,  scant 
tablespoon  salt,  scant  tablespoon  mustard,  pinch  of  red  pepper. 
Mix  with  J  cup  weak  vinegar,  stir  with  the  eggs.  Cook  in 
double  boiler;  while  hot,  add  butter  size  of  a  walnut.  When 
cold  add  i  cup  cream. — Mrs.  R.  Baur. 

Boiled  Salad  Dressing. 
One  tablespoon  butter,  1  tablespoon  flour,  1  tablespoon 
sugar,  1  teaspoon  salt,  1  teaspoon  mustard,  J  cup  vinegar,  1 
cup  milk,  3  eggs.  Melt  the  butter  and  add  the  flour,  stir  until 
it  is  smooth,  add  the  milk,  let  it  come  to  a  boil,  stirring  con- 
stantly. Add  the  seasoning  to  the  eggs  and  beat  them,  add 
the  vinegar  a  little  at  a  time.  Add  this  to  the  other  ingre- 
dients and  cook  in  a  double  boiler  until  it  thickens.  Use  it 
cold. — Clara  Rauschert. 

Boiled  Salad  Dressing. 
Two  eggs,  i  cup  vinegar,  ^cup  water,  ^  cup  sugar,  1 
heaping  teaspoon  dry  mustard  and  1  heaping  teaspoon  corn- 
starch. Boil  until  thick.  After  removing  from  fire  add  a  good 
sized  piece  of  butter.  Thin  with  cream  as  used. — Mrs.  H.  A. 
Zorn. 

Salad  Dressing. 

Two  well  beaten  eggs,  2  tablespoons  of  sugar,  ^  cup  of 
vinegar,  J  cup  of  water  mixed  with  1  tablespoon  melted  butter. 
Beat  hard,  boil  until  thick. — Mrs.  G.  Massman. 

Boiled  Salad  Dressing. 
One  cup  vinegar,  add  a  little  water,  1  teaspoon  mustard,  2 
tablespoons  flour  scant,  2  eggs,  separate ;  butter  size  of  an  egg, 
sugar  to  taste  and  a  little  salt.  Mix  the  mustard,  flour,  salt 
and  sugar,  add  the  beaten  yolks  of  eggs,  then  add  vinegar 
and  boil  in  double  boiler  until  thick.  After  it  is  off  the  fire, 
add  beaten  whites  of  eggs. — Mrs.  E.  Koretke. 


PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK  43 


Adirondack  Salad. 

One  can  peas,  J  pound  cheese,  any  kind,  2  large  onions, 
I  dozen  large  pickles,  sour  or  dill.  Strain  peas,  dice  cheese, 
onions  and  pickles  (sugar  pickles,  if  sour),  and  mix  with 
mayonnaise  dressing. — Mrs.  C.  F.  Teuchert. 

Alsatian  Salad. 

Cook  3  frankfurter  sausages  for  a  few  minutes  in  boiling 
water.  Chill  these  and  cut  into  very  thin  slices.  Slice  4 
medium  size  cold  potatoes  and  1  small  white  onion,  half  a 
dozen  firm  pickles  and  stir  this  mixture  lightly  with  4  table- 
spoons of  French  dressing. — Mrs.  A.  Steging. 

Ruby  Apple  Salad. 

Make  a  syrup  of  3  cups  sugar  and  3  cups  water,  to  which 
add  enough  red  stick  candy  or  red  cinnamon  drops  to  give  a 
rich  red  color.  When  candy  is  dissolved  add  8  to  10  sweet 
apples,  peeled  and  cored,  and  simmer  slowly  until  apples  are 
tender  and  ruby  colored.  Drain  and  cool ;  fill  center  with 
chopped  nuts  and  celery,  place  on  lettuce  leaves,  and  pour  a 
fruit  salad  dressing  over  them.  Pears  may  also  be  used  this 
way. — Mrs.  W.  C.   Hinrichs. 

Asparagus  and  Tomato  Salad. 

Chill  as  many  tomatoes  as  needed ;  skin  and  scoop  out  cen- 
ter. Chill  on  ice  till  very  firm.  Have  ready  asparagus  tips 
about  3  inches  long.  Dust  the  inside  of  tomatoes  with  salt 
and  pepper,  then  stand  4  or  5  tips  in  each  tomato.  Place  on 
lettuce  and  pour  over  each  a  mayonnaise  or  boiled  dressing. — 
Alicia  K.  Steinhoff. 

Banana  Salad. 

Peel  bananas  and  cut  each  into  4  parts,  lengthwise.  Roll 
each  part  in  lemon  juice,  then  in  finely  chopped  nuts.  Pile  log- 
cabin  fashion  on  lettuce  leaves  and  pour  over  it  a  mayonnaise 
or  boiled  dressing. — Alicia  K.  Steinhoff. 


44  PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK 

Bean  Celery  Salad. 

One  pint  of  pork  and  beans,  4  tablespoons  celery  cut  in 
small  pieces,  2  tablespoons  finely  chopped  onion,  ^  cup  salad 
dressing  mixed  with  J  cup  whipped  cream.  Serve  on  lettuce 
and  garnish  with  olives. — Mrs.  R.   Baur. 

Beet  Salad. 

Take  4  or  5  good  sized  pickled  beets  and  chop  or  cut  up 
in  small  pieces,  some  English  celery  cut  up  in  small  pieces  and 
mix  with  pepper  and  salt,  place  in  a  salad  bowl.  Now  take 
4  hard  boiled  eggs,  chop  the  whites  up  and  place  in  circle 
around  the  edge  of  the  bowl.  Take  the  yellow  and  mash  with 
fork  and  place  in  center.     Garnish  with  celery  leaves. 

Dressing. — 2  eggs  beaten,  1  tablespoon  olive  oil,  salt  and 
pepper,  1  tablespoon  vinegar.  Beat  together  and  pour  on 
salad. — Mrs.  R.  Albrecht. 

Cabbage  and  Beet  Salad. 

Chop  a  medium  sized  head  of  cabbage  fine  and  add  to  it 
half  as  many  chopped  beets,  boiled  and  allowed  to  cool.  To 
2  quarts  of  this  mixture  add  a  small  cupful  of  horseradish  or 
a  5c  bottle.  Put  in  white  sugar  and  salt  to  taste.  Cover  all 
with  vinegar  and  allow  it  to  stand  for  24  hours  before  serv- 
ing.— Mrs.  A.  Steging. 

Cold  Slaw  Salad. 

Wash  a  cabbage  and  lay  in  iced  water,  slightly  salted  for 
an  hour  or  two.  Then  drain,  cut  into  shreds,  adding  a  stalk 
of  celery,  and  3  apples  (also  cut  into  bits).  Then  cover  all 
with  a  cream  dressing. — Mrs.  Anna  A.  Jaekel. 

Celery  Salad. 

Mash  a  cream  cheese,  add  chopped  nuts,  salt,  and  moisten 
with  boiled  dressing,  stuff  the  mixture  into  the  hollow  part 
of  crisp  celery.  Serve  as  usual  or  cut  up  in  inch  pieces  and 
serve  on  lettuce  with  boiled  dressing. — Alicia  K.  Steinhoff. 


PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK  45 


Celery  Salad. 

Cut  celery  into  small  pieces,  add  walnuts  and  mix  with 
cream  salad  dressing.  Add  dressing  just  before  serving  else 
it  will  get  watery. — Mrs.  W.  H.  Jacobs. 

Cassaba  Melon. 

Cut  Cassaba  melon  in  shape  of  banana  or  in  heart  shapes ; 
put  finely  chopped  white  grapes  (can  be  bought,  seeded, 
in  cans  for  salad)  around  edge,  in  center  put  pomegranate 
seeds.     Serve  with  French  dressing. — Ada  Wilson  Bohnsack. 

Chicken  Salad. 

Boil  a  chicken  tender ;  skin  and  cut  all  meat  into  small 
pieces.  Cut  up  2  large  stalks  celery,  1  can  peas,  1  sweet  red 
pepper  cut  fine ;  mix  and  add  mayonnaise  dressing.  Serve  on 
lettuce  leaves. — Mrs.  Sodemann. 

Chicken  Salad. 

Cut  cold  chicken  in  dice,  add  i  as  much  celery  and  serve 
with  a  boiled  dressing. — Mrs.  Mandel  Z. 

Chicken  Salad. 

One  fine  large  chicken  boiled  tender  and  chopped,  12  eggs 
boiled  hard,  6  stuffed  pickled  peppers  chopped,  1  cup  melted 
butter  or  salad  oil ;  3  cups  chopped  celery,  1  teaspoon  ground 
pepper,  2  tablespoons  black  mustard  ground,  1  cup  vinegar. 
Rub  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  with  the  butter  or  salad  oil.  If  the 
chicken  is  fat,  the  oil  taken  from  the  water  in  which  it  is 
boiled  is  better  than  the  salad  oil.  Chop  the  whites  of  the 
eggs.  Put  all  the  ingredients  together,  and  work  it  until  it  is 
thoroughly  mixed.  If  you  cannot  get  the  celery  use  white  cab- 
bage, and  put  celery  seed  in  the  cup  of  vinegar  that  you  are 
going  to  use  and  let  it  stand  over  night.  Other  pickles  can  be 
used  with  some  pepper  sauce  instead  of  the  stuffed  peppers. 
This  recipe  will  make  nearly  a  gallon  of  salad  and  will  keep 
for  days  in  a  cool  place. — Mrs.  R.  Albrecht. 


46  -  PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK 


Mock  Chicken  Salad. 

Two  pounds  veal  from  the  leg,  boil  in  one  piece  until  done, 
let  cool.  Cut  in  dice.  Measure  meat  and  add  an  equal  amount 
of  celery,  cut  in  dice.  Dressing. — §  cup  vinegar,  ^  cup 
water,  |  cup  sugar,  1  teaspoon  salt,  1  teaspoon  mustard,  1 
tablespoon  flour,  2  eggs.  Mix  thoroughly  and  cook  in  double 
boiler  until  thick.  When  cool  stir  in  a  cup  of  cream  and  add 
to  the  salad.     Serve  on  lettuce  leaves. — Miss  Clara  Mertz. 

Combination  Salad. 

Four  ripe  tomatoes,  1  can  w^hite  asparagus,  2  stalks  celery, 
small,  1  green  pepper.  Cut  tomatoes  in  slices,  dice  celery  and 
peppers.  Serve  on  lettuce  leaf  and  cover  with  boiled  or  may- 
onnaise dressing. — Mrs.  H.  Trippler. 

Combination  Salad. 

One  can  peas,  2  stalks  celery  cut  fine,  1  sweet  red  pepper 
cut  fine,  6  hard  boiled  eggs  cut  in  pieces.  Mix  with  mayon- 
naise.— Mrs.  Sodemann. 

Crabmeat  a  La  Cardinal. 

Shred  crabmeat,  add  cut  up  celery,  a  little  onion,  minced 
green  pepper,  and  seasoning  to  taste.  Cut  white  bread  in 
circles,  place  one  round  of  bread  on  a  lettuce  leaf,  place  a 
hollowed  out  tomato,  or  a  thick  slice  of  tomato,  on  bread ; 
fill  tomato  with  the  crab  mixture  and  pour  over  all  a  mayon- 
naise dressing. — Alicia  K.  Steinhoflf. 

Date  Salad. 

To  2  apples  take  1  banana  and  i  cup  dates ;  cut  all  in 
small  pieces.  Add  a  little  lemon  and  orange  juice  and  mix 
with  dressing  to  which  whipped  cream  has  been  added. — Miss 
L.  Gansz. 

Egg  Salad. 

Shred  crisp  lettuce  leaves,  place  on  salad  plates,  then  lay 
slices  of  hard  boiled  egg  on  the  lettuce  and  grate  cheese  over 
all.  Dust  with  paprika  and  serve  with  French  dressing. — Mrs. 
H.  F.  Rente. 


PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK  47 

Egg  Salad. 

One   dozen  boiled  eggs,   1   can  pimentoes,   1   large  bottle 
stuffed  olives,  5  cents  worth  of  sweet  pickles,  1  small  onion.       ^ 
Chop   each   ingredient   separately,   then   mix   and   serve   with 
white  sauce. 

White  Sauce. — To  2  tablespoons  butter,  melted,  add  2  table- 
spoons flour,  I  teaspoon  salt,  a  little  pepper,  and  1  cup  milk. 
Let  cook  till  thick. — Mrs.  Mandel  Z. 

Egg  Salad  with  Salmon  Mayonnaise. 

Hard  boil  6  or  8  eggs,  remove  shells  and  chill  on  ice.  Rub 
i  cup  of  canned  salmon  to  a  paste,  add  to  1  cup  of  mayonnaise 
or  boiled  dressing  into  which  has  been  beaten  J  cup  cream. 
Arrange  crisp  lettuce  hearts  in  a  nest  on  a  shallow  serving 
dish.  Cut  eggs  in  eighths,  pile  them  in  center,  sprinkle  with 
salt  and  pepper  and  pour  over  the  prepared  mayonnaise. 
Sprinkle  with  finely  chopped  chives  or  paprika. — Alicia  K. 
Steinhoff. 

Golden  Salad. 

Cut  4  hard  boiled  eggs  in  halves  lengthwise,  and  to  the 
mashed  yolks  add  1  teaspoon  melted  butter,  2  teaspoons  may- 
onnaise dressing,  1  tablespoon  ham  ground  fine,  and  salt. 
Form  into  balls  and  fill  space  in  each  white.  Arrange  on  let- 
tuce.— Mrs.  O.  A.  Skibbe. 

Fish  Salad. 

Boil  white  fish,  let  cool,  bone ;  mix  with  celery  and  cucum- 
bers and  serve  with  dressing  on  lettuce  leaves. — Mrs.  R. 
Meyer. 

Fruit  Salad. 

One  pound  grapes  seeded  and  peeled,  ^  pound  walnuts,  add 
a  little  celery  cut  in  small  pieces,  add  apples  cut  fine  to  taste. 
Mix  with  mayonnaise  dressing. — Mrs.  F.  Nyendorf. 

Fruit  Salad. 

One  can  sliced  pineapples,  1  can  pears,  1  pound  white 
grapes,  3  oranges,  and  2  boxes  marshmallows.     Mix  with  fruit 


:5P' 


48  PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK 


salad  dressing  to  which  whipped  cream  has  been  added. — Mrs. 
H.  Trippler. 

Whipped  Cream  Fruit  Salad. 

Two  cups  seeded  white  grapes,  2  cups  chopped  apples,  1 
cup  celery,  1  cup  chopped  walnuts,  1  cup  marshmallows,  cut 
in  pieces,  1|  cup  candied  cherries.  Whip  1  quart  of  cream, 
sweetened  slightly,  add  the  juice  of  1  lemon.  Add  dressing 
just  before  serving. — Mrs.  A.  L.  Dunfrund. 

Fruit  Salad. 
Twenty-four  marshmallows,  1  can  pineapple,  2  juicy  apples, 
6  oranges,  lettuce  leaves,  1  can  white  cherries  may  be  added. 
Cut  fruit  and  marshmallows  into  small  pieces,  then  mix  and 
chill.  For  dressing  use  1  tablespoon  butter,  pinch  of  salt,  2 
tablespoons  sugar,  2  tablespoons  vinegar,  2  eggs,  ^  pint  of 
whipped  cream.  Beat  up  eggs  in  double  boiler  add  vinegar, 
sugar  and  salt  and  butter,  then  cook  until  thick.  Cool  and 
add  whipped  cream.  Mix  with  fruit  and  serve  on  lettuce 
leaves. — Mrs.  R.  Baur. 

Hanoverian  Salad. 

Three  medium  sized  beets,  2  cooked  potatoes,  J  pound 
cooked  ham,  1  small  onion,  several  stalks  celery.  Chop  ingre- 
dients fine,  mix  with  cream  dressing.  Serve  on  bed  of  lettuce 
and  garnish  with  hard  boiled  eggs. — Mrs.  Wm.  Bohnsack. 

Herring  Salad  Appetizer. 
Lay  5  to  6  salt  herring  in  fresh  water  over  night.  The 
next  morning  clean  them  and  cut  in  small  pieces.  Cut  up  3 
pounds  cooked  veal,  3  to  4  hard  boiled  eggs,  4  cooked  beets,  2 
large  apples,  pepper,  a  good  i  cup  vinegar  (if  strong  mix  with 
a  little  water),  a  little  dry  mustard  and  one  tablespoon  sugar. 
No  salt.  Stir  well  together  then  put  it  in  a  covered  jar  for  a 
day. — Mrs.  O.  Kleppisch. 

Herring  Salad.    , 
Clean  and  remove  bones  from  2  salt  herring ;  cut  fine.     Cut 
in  small  jpieces  1  little  onion,  a  bunch  of  celery,  3  hard  boiled 


PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK  49 


eggs,  4  boiled  potatoes,  1  cucumber,  and  add  1  cup  peas.  Mix 
all  together  and  add  3  tablespoons  vinegar.  Line  a  bowl  with 
lettuce  and  fill  with  the  salad. — Mrs.  W.  Brockschmidt. 

Herring  Salad. 

This  is  a  very  palatable  and  also  economical  salad  recipe, 
as  it  can  be  prepared  from  all  kinds  of  left-overs.  Take  4  salted 
herring  that  have  been  soaked  for  several  hours  before  using, 
skin  and  bone  them ;  1^  pounds  cold  boiled  meat  (soup  meat 
preferred),  about  J  this  amount  of  cold  boiled  potatoes,  1 
boiled  celery  root,  1  onion,  2  good  sized  pickles,  2  apples,  and 
run  all  through  the  food  chopper.  Add  any  kind  of  meat  gravy 
or  extract,  about  ^  glass  of  any  kind  of  jelly,  2  teaspoons  pre- 
pared mustard,  scant  ^  teaspoon  pepper.  Mix  all  this  thor- 
oughly, put  into  a  large  salad  dish,  and  garnish  top  with  four 
hard  boiled  eggs  (yolks  and  whites  chopped  separately  for 
the  center).  Use  enough  chopped  pickled  beets  and  pickles  to 
go  around  the  edge. — Mrs.  A.  Streger. 

Italian  Salad. 

Lax  ham,  boiled  ham,  veal  tongue,  martadella,  servelat 
sausage  or  any  kind  of  sausage,  also  beets  and  celery.  Mix 
with  mayonnaise. — Mrs.  H.  G.  Tischer. 

Kidney  Bean  Salad. 

One  onion  size  of  an  Qgg,  3  sour  pickles,  5  cents  worth  of 
walnuts,  1  can  kidney  beans,  mayonnaise  dressing. — Mrs. 
Emil  C.  Weihe. 

Kidney  Bean  Salad. 
One  can  shrimps,  1  can  kidney  beans,  and  celery  to  suit 
taste.     Mix  with  mayonnaise  dressing. — Mrs.  W.  C.  Pfister. 

Lettuce  Salad. 

Take  as  many  heads  of  lettuce  as  needed.  Cut  lettuce  fine, 
then  cut  in  slices  2  bunches  radishes,  10  small  onions,  and  1 
cucumber ;  salt  a  little.  Put  in  layers  in  a  dish  and  dress 
with  oil  and  vinegar  or  with  mayonnaise. — Mrs.  O'Rourke. 


50  PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK 

Lettuce  Salad  with  Cream  Dressing. 
1  cup  of  thick,  sweet  cream,  add  §  tablespoon  vinegar  and 
^  cup  sugar.     Mix  thoroughly  with  lettuce.     Head-lettuce  is 
best. — Marie  Doederlein. 

Lobster  Salad. 
Two  cans  lobster,   1  green  pepper,  3  stalks  celery,  J  can 
pimentoes.     Mix  all  together  and  serve  on  lettuce  leaf  with 
dressing.     Salmon  and  shrimp  may  also  be  used  in  the  same 
way. — Mrs.  H.  Trippler. 

Peach  Salad. 

Arrange  halves  of  fine  large  peaches,  hollow  side  up  on 
salad  plates  covered  with  lettuce  or  endive,  chop  hearts  of 
celery  and  almonds ;  moisten  with  mayonnaise  and  fill  in 
cavity  of  peach.  Cover  with  another  half  peach  to  resemble 
a  whole  peach,  cover  with  mayonnaise,  and  over  this  a 
rather  soft  cranberry  jelly.  Sprinkle  with  parsley. — Mrs.  O. 
Kleppisch. 

Pepper  Salad. 

Roast  sweet  peppers,  then  peel,  and  salt.  Let  stand  a  few 
minutes,  then  add  oil  and  vinegar. — Mrs.  Roth. 

Perfection  Salad. 

Two  tablespoons  Knox's  gelatine,  ^  cup  water,  ^  cup 
vinegar,  juice  of  1  lemon,  1  pint  boiling  water,  ^  cup  sugar, 
1  teaspoon  salt,  1  can  peas,  6  sweet-sour  pickles,  1  cup  chopped 
celery,  J  cup  pimentoes.  Soften  gelatine  in  cold  water ;  mix 
vinegar,  lemon  juice,  sugar,  salt  and  boiling  water.  Bring 
all  to  boiling  point  and  add  softened  gelatine.  Let  cool  when 
mixture  begins  to  thicken  add  peas,  celery,  pimentoes  and 
pickles.  Turn  into  large  or  individual  moulds.  Chill  and 
serve  with  mayonnaise  dressing. — Olga  T.  Bohnsack. 

Perfection  Salad. 

One  envelope  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine,  |  cup  cold  water, 
I  cup  mild  vinegar,  2  tablespoons  lemon  juice,  2  cups  boiling 
water,  ^  cup  sugar,  1  teaspoon  salt,  1  cup  finely  shredded  cab- 


PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK  51 

bage,  2  cups  celery  cut  in  small  pieces,  2  pimentoes.  Soak 
gelatine  in  cold  water  5  minutes;  add  vinegar,  lemon  juice, 
boiling  water,  sugar  and  salt.  Strain  and  when  mixture  begins 
to  thicken,  add  remaining  ingredients.  iTurn  into  mould,  first 
dipped  in  cold  water  and  chill.  Remove  to  a  bed  of  lettuce 
or  endive  and  garnish  with  mayonnaise  or  boiled  dressing;  or 
cut  mixture  into  cubes  and  serve  in  cases  m(ade  of  red  or 
green  peppers. — Ella  Baerwald. 

Pineapple  Salad. 

Place  a  thin  slice  of  pineapple  on  a  lettuce  leaf;  spread 
cream  cheese  on  the  pineapple ;  place  star  shaped  pieces  or 
strips  of  pimento  on  top,  and  serve  with  boiled  dressing. — 
Alicia  K.  Steinhoff. 

Prune  Salad. 

Soak  prunes  over  night ;  next  day  cook  them,  but  not  too 
much.  Take  out  stones  and  fill  with  walnut  or  pecan  meats. 
Put  lettuce  leaves  on  salad  plates,  add  3  prunes  and  dressing  on 
the  side. 

Dressing. — Boil  together,  stirring  constantly,  a  small  piece 
of  butter  size  of  a  walnut,  1  Ggg  well  beaten,  |  teaspoon  salt, 
1  tablespoon  sugar,  1  scant  teaspoon  mustard,  3  tablespoons 
vinegar.  When  smooth  let  cool  and  then  add  i  cup  milk. — 
Mrs.  F.  Kasang. 

Salmon  Salad. 
One  can  salmon  cut  in  small  pieces,   12  small  cucumber 
pickles  chopped,  1  very  small  head  cabbage  chopped  fine,  2 
eggs  boiled  hard  and  chopped.     Mix  all  together  thoroughly. 

Salmon  Salad. 

One  can  salmon,  the  skins  and  bones  removed ;  1  cup 
chopped  celery,  1  grated  onion,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

Dressing. — One  e:gg  well  beaten  with  |  teaspoon  mustard, 
salt  and  1  tablespoon  sugar;  boil  with  ^  cup  vinegar  until  it 
thickens,  and  add  a  lump  of  butter.  Pour  dressing,  when  cool, 
over  the  salmon,  mixing  it  thoroughly.  Line  a  dish  with  let- 
tuce, pour  the  mixture  on  it.     Chop  a  boiled  beet  fine,  sprinkle 


52  PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK 

on  top,  and  edge  with,  sliced  egg,  hard  boiled.  This  dish  can 
be  made  in  the  morning  and  served  any  time  during  the  day. 
— Mrs.  A.  Steging. 

Tongue  Salad. 

Boil,  skin,  trim  and  slice,  then  cut  in  dice  1  fresh  beef 
tongue.  Add  the  whites  of  6  hard  boiled  eggs,  and  3  stalks  of 
celery  cut  in  small  pieces,  mix  thoroughly  with  cream  dress- 
ing and  serve. 

Cream  Dressing.-^Beat  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  and  work 
smooth  with  1  tablespoon  sugar,  1  teaspoon  mustard,  8  table- 
spoons olive  oil,  3  tablespoons  vinegar,  1  teaspoon  salt,  a  dash 
of  cayenne  pepper,  and  lastly  1  cup  well  whipped  cream. — 
Mrs.  A.  Piepho. 

Stuffed  Tomato  Salad. 

After  skinning  tomatoes,  scoop  out  insides  and  chop  with 
chicken  livers  or  chicken  meat,  black  walnuts,  celery,  onions, 
mayonnaise,  pepper  and  salt.  Stuff  the  tomatoes  and  garnish 
with  stiff  mayonnaise. — Alicia  K.  Steinholf. 

Waldorf  Salad. 

One  quart  chopped  apples,  1  quart  chopped  celery,  and  1 
cup  walnuts.  Mix  with  this  dressing :  yolks  of  4  eggs,  butter 
size  of  an  egg,  1  teaspoon  salt,  1  teaspoon  mustard  flour,  a  little 
cayenne,  i  cup  vinegar,  1  tablespoon  sugar.  Stir  all  well, 
put  on  stove  to  thicken,  but  don't  let  boil.  When  thick  add  1 
cup  whipped  cream,  and  mix  with  salad. — Mrs.  Mandel  Z. 

Waldorf  Salad. 

One  cup  diced  apples,  1  cup  celery  cut  fine,  1  cup  grape- 
nuts.  Mix  apples  and  celery  with  fruit  salad  dressing  at  once 
to  prevent  discoloration.  Add  grape-nuts  and  place  on  ice 
until  serving  time. — Mrs.  H.  A.  Zorn. 

Sunday  Night  Salad. 

Cut  cold  roast  veal  in  ^-inch  cubes,  there  should  be  2  cups ; 
wash  and  scrape  celery  and  cut  in  thin  slices,  there  should  be 


PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK  53 

. . J — 

1^  cups ;  chili  until  crisp  in  cold  water,  drain  and  dry.  Remove 
stones  from  4  olives  and  finely  chop  them.  Parboil  J  red 
pepper  10  minutes,  remove  seeds  and  cut  i  the  pepper  in 
strips,  the  remainder  in  fancy  shapes.  Mix  veal,  celery,  olives, 
pepper  strips,  and  marinate  with  French  dressing.  Moisten 
with  cream  salad  dressing,  mound  in  a  bowl  and  mask  with 
dressing.  Garnish  with  celery  tips  and  peppers  cut  in  fancy 
shapes  and  cucumber  pickles  cut  in  strips. — Mrs.  O.  A.  Skibbe. 


Puddings  and  Desserts 

Cream  Sauce. 
One   egg,  J  cup   sugar,    1    tablespoon   cornstarch.     Whip 
this  to  a  foarr^,  then  add  1  pint  boiling  milk ;  boil  until  thick, 
lastly  add  1  teaspoon  vanilla. — Miss  L.  Gansz. 

Hard  Sauce. 

One  cup  powdered  sugar,  ^  cup  butter,  1  tablespoon  cream, 
f  teaspoon  vanilla,  i  teaspoon  lemon  extract.  Cream  butter, 
add  cream,  sugar  and  flavoring. 

Hard  Sauce. 

Stir  together  1  cup  white  sugar,  ^  cup  butter  until  creamy 
and  light;  add  vanilla  to  taste  or  flavor  with  raspberry  or 
strawberry  juice.     The  froth  of  an  G:gg  beaten  stiff. 

Vanilla  Sauce. 

Mix  thoroughly  ^  cup  sugar,  1  tablespoon  flour.  Stir  it 
into  1  cup  boiling  water.  Let  boil ;  when  clear  add  2  table- 
spoons butter  and  1  teaspoon  vanilla.  Beat  until  butter  is 
melted. — Alicia  K.  Steinhoff. 

Wine  Sauce. 
Stir  a  heaping  teaspoon  of  cornstarch  into  a  little  cold 
water  to  a  smooth  paste;  add  a  cup  of  boiling  water  with  one 
cup  of  sugar,  a  piece  of  butter  size  of  an  egg,  boil  together  10 
minutes,  remove  from  the  fire,  and  when  cool  stir  into  it  ^ 
cup  of  wine. — Mrs.  O.  Kleppisch. 


54  PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK 


Angel  Food  Pudding. 

One  small  cup  sugar,  2  eggs  well  beaten,  1  apple  diced, 
^  cup  seedless  raisins  dredged  in  2  tablespoons  of  flour,  1 
teaspoon  baking  powder,  almond  flavor  to  taste.  Bake  slowly 
J  hour  and  serve  with  whipped  cream.  This  will  serve  5  or  6 
persons,  as  it  is  a  very  rich  desert. — Mrs.  Streger. 

Baked  Apple  Dumplings. 

Pare  and  core  the  apples.  Make  a  baking  powder  biscuit 
dough,  a  trifle  stiffer  than  for  biscuits.  Roll  on  floured  board 
and  cut  in  numbers  of  parts  desired.  Shape  around  apples 
after  sprinkling  each  with  sugar  and  cinnamon.  Bake  a 
golden  brown  and  serve  with  any  desired  sauce  such  as  a 
jelly  sauce  or  whipped  cream. — Clara  L.  Kemnitz. 

Apple  Custard. 
Heat  1  cup  water  and  J  cup  sugar,  to  boiling  point.  Drop 
into  it  3  medium;  sized  apples  peeled  and  sliced,  cook  slowly 
until  apples  are  tender,  then  lift  the  pieces  out  and  put  in 
serving  dish.  Boil  syrup  down  one  half  an  pour  over 
apples.  Mix  1  tablespoon  cornstarch,  J  cup  sugar,  1  Qgg, 
beaten  well,  1  large  cup  milk ;  cook  slowly  until  thick  and  pour 
around  apples.  Drop  a  little  currant  jelly  in  center. — Mrs.  H. 
England. 

Russian  Apples. 
Wipe  oft',  core  and  pare  large  sour  apples.     Put  close  to- 
gether in  a  baking  dish  and  fill  each  cavity  with  mince  meat 
prepared  as  for  pies,  but  without  apples.     Bake  in  a  slow  oven 
until  apples  are  tender,  and  serve  cold. — Mrs.  R.  Albrecht. 

Baked  Apples. 

Cream  |  cup  sugar  with  1  tablespoon  butter.  Stir  into  1 
tablespoon  flour  the  grated  rind  of  1  lemon ;  mix  with  sugar 
and  butter.  Pour  this  mixture  in  the  spaces  left  by  coring  6 
apples.  Place  in  a  moderate  oven  and  bake  till  soft. — Mrs. 
F.  C.  Kramer. 


PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK  55 


Baked  Apples  and  Prunes. 

Core  apples  and  fill  with  prunes  chopped  fine,  using  sugar 
to  taste.  Serve  with  whipped  cream,  if  desired, — Mrs.  F. 
Schoenwolf. 

Baked  Apples. 

Core  apples  without  peeling  and  place  in  a  shallow  pan. 
Fill  center  of  apples  with  light  broAvn  sugar.  Sprinkle  a  little 
cornstarch  on  bottom  of  pan,  between  apples,  and  pour  on 
water  to  come  up  about  a  quarter  of  an  inch  around  apples. 
Bake  and  serve  with  sauce  that  will  be  in  the  pan  from  the 

cornstarch,  sugar  and  water. — Mrs.  Theo.  Doering. 

*> 

Apple  Snow. 
Boil  about  5  apples  to  a  pulp,  sweetening  to  taste.  When 
cool  place  in  a  large  bowl,  together  with  the  white  of  1  egg, 
juice  of  1  lemon,  and  1  cup  of  sugar.  Beat  the  mixture  about 
30  minutes  with  a  wire  egg  beater.  The  result  is  three  times 
the  amount  you  started  with,  enough  to  serve  10  people. — 
Mrs.  Albrecht. 

Apricot  Whip.  * 

Boil  1  pound  dried  apricots  till  tender  and  sweeten  to 
taste.  When  cool  whip  very  smooth,  add  the  stiffly  beaten 
w^hites  of  3  eggs  and  beat  all  well  together.  Serve  with 
whipped  cream  or  with  a  custard  made  of  the  egg  yolks  and 
thickened  wdth  cornstarch. — Mrs.  Mandel  Z. 

Apricot  Prune  Desert. 

Cook  clear  1  cup  tapioca  in  2  quarts  of  boiling  water,  add 
4  pound  of  prunes  and  J  pound  apricots.  Sweeten  to  taste, 
about  i  cup  sugar.  Stir  occasionally.  When  cold  serve  with 
cream. — Mrs.  O.  Kleppisch. 

Fruit  Desert. 

Wash  and  soak  dried  apricots,  then  simmer  until  soft.  Add 
enough  sugar  to  sweeten  and  put  through  a  coarse  strainer. 
Let  stand  until  cold,  then  add  bananas,  cut  fine,  and  serve  with 
whipped  cream. — Mrs,  W.  Brockschmidt. 


56  PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK 

Bread  Pudding. 
Grate  about  |  loaf  of  bread,  cutting  off  the  crust;  pour 
over  it  about  a  quart  of  scalded  milk ;  a  piece  of  butter  the  size 
of  an  egg;  when  cool  add  a  teaspoon  cinnamon,  J  cup  sugar, 
J  cup  raisins  ,  and  J  teaspoon  baking  soda  dissolved  in  a 
little  hot  water.  Beat  2  or  3  eggs  very  light  and  add  last. 
Turn  all  in  well  greased  pudding  dish  and  bake  |  of  an  hour. 
Serve  with  hard  sauce.  This  recipe  may  be  steamed  or  boiled. 
— Mrs.  O.  Kleppisch. 

Chocolate  Bread  Pudding. 

Two  cups  stale  bread  crumbs,  enough  milk  to  cover,  2  eggs, 
f  cup  sugar,  2  small  squares  chocolate.  Mix  well  and  bake 
J  hour;  to  be  eaten  with  any  kind  of  sauce. — Mrs.  Albrecht. 

Carrot  Pudding. 

One  cup  flour,  |  cup  sugar,  salt;  put  through  chopper  1 
cup  raw  potatoes,  1  cup  carrots,  1  cup  suet,  |  teaspoon  cloves, 
i  teaspoon  cinnamon,  ^  teaspoon  allspice,  1  cup  raisins,  i 
cup  currants,  |  teaspoon  baking  soda.  Steam  2  hours.  Serve 
with  lemon  sauce. 

Lemon  Sauce. — Yolk  of  2  eggs,  1  cup  sugar,  ^  cup  butter, 
1  tablespoon  cornstarch,  juice  of  1  lemJon.  Stir  this  into  1^ 
cups  boiling  water  and  cook  a  few  minutes. — Mrs.  Sodemann. 

Caramel  Cup  Custard. 
One-half  cup  sugar,  ^  cup  boiling  water,  2  eggs,  salt,  2 
cups  scalded  milk,  vanilla.  Melt  sugar  slowly  over  fire,  then 
add  water  and  let  boil  until  clear.  Pour  J  into  each  of  4  cups. 
Scald  milk.  Beat  eggs  slightly.  Add  to  milk.  Add  vanilla. 
Pour  into  cups  containing  syrup.  Place  in  pan  of  hat  water 
and  bake  until  set. — Mary  Sternberg. 

Cocoanut  Pudding. 
One-half  cup  sugar,  2  egg  yolks,  1  cup  milk,  1  teaspoon 
lemon  extract,  4  cup  bread  crumbs,  2  tablespoons  or  more  of 
cocoanut.  Bake  about  ^  hour.  Make  frosting  of  the  whites 
of  eggs  and  i  cup  of  sugar.  Brown  slightly  in  oven. — Mrs. 
O.  Kleppisch. 


PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK  57 

J . . 

Com  Starch  Pudding. 

One  pint  milk,  2  tablespoons  corn  starch,  3  tablespoons 
sugar  and  a  little  salt,  whites  of  3  eggs  beaten.  When  milk 
is  boiling  add  sugar,  then  add  starch  dissolved  in  cold  milk, 
and  then  eggs  whipped  to  a  stiff  froth.  Cook  a  few  minutes 
then  add  some  cocoanut  and  set  in  a  cool  place. 

Sauce. — 1  pint  boiled  milk,  3  tablespoons  sugar,  yolks  of 
3  eggs  mixed  with  sugar.  Then  add  to  boiling  milk.  Flavor 
with  vanilla. — Mrs.  J.  Semmlow. 

Chocolate  Corn  Starch  Pudding. 

One  pint  milk,  4  tablespoons  chocolate,  2  tablespoons  corn 
starch,  J  cup  sugar,  J  teaspoon  salt.  Melt  chocolate,  heat 
the  milk  to  boiling.  Add  sugar,  salt  and  chocolate.  Mix  the 
corn  starch  with  2  tablespoons  of  water,  add  to  the  boiling 
milk.  Boil  for  2  minutes.  Cook  in  double  boiler  for  20 
minutes.  Wet  the  mould  with  cold  water,  turn  the  pudding 
into  it,  chill  and  serve  with  sugar  and  cream. — Clara  Rausch- 
ert. 

Chocolate  Pudding. 

One  pint  milk,  10  tablespoons  grated  bread,  5  tablespoons 
grated  chocolate,  4  eggs,  butter  size  of  an  Ggg,  1  small  cup 
sugar.  Mix  crumbs  and  chocolate  with  a  little  of  the  milk, 
add  yolks  of  eggs  and  sugar,  put  rest  of  the  milk  on  fire,  let 
come  to  a  boil  and  stir  in  the  mixture,  add  butter  and  cook 
till  thick  like  cream,  stirring  constantly,  then  put  in  buttered 
pudding  dish.  Beat  the  whites  of  eggs  to  froth,  add  3  table- 
spoons powdered  sugar,  ^  teaspoon  cornstarch,  pour  over 
pudding  and  brown  in  hot  oven. — Mrs.  Wm.  Fredericks. 

Fig  Pudding. 

Three  eggs,  §  cup  granulated  sugar,  ^  cup  butter,  1  solid 
cup  bread  crumbs,  J  cup  chopped  figs  or  dates.  Mix  together 
butter,  sugar,  beaten  yolks  of  eggs,  figs,  crumbs,  and  lastly 
froth  of  eggs.  Turn  into  a  well  greased  pan  and  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  for  35  minutes,  or  until  firm  to  the  touch.     If 


58  PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK 

steaming  is  preferred,  turn  into  a  covered  mould  and  steam  24 
hours.  Serve  with  wine  sauce  or  any  pudding  sauce. — Mrs. 
O.  Kleppisch. 

Five  Minute  Pudding. 
One  tablespoon  sugar,  IJ  tablespoon  flour,  2  eggs,  1  teas- 
poon baking  powder,   flavoring.     Beat  well.     Bake   in   quick 
oven  5  minutes ;  spread  with  jam,  roll  up,  and  pour  a  custard 
over. — Mrs.  F.  Ingham. 

Lemon  Pudding. 

Stir  into  yolks  of  6  eggs  1  cup  sugar,  ^  cup  water  and  the 
grated  rind  and  juice  of  1  lemon.  Soften  6  crackers  or  some 
slices  of  cake  in  warm  water,  lay  in  bottom  of  baking  dish, 
pour  custard  over  them  and  bake  till  firm.  Beat  whites  till 
frothy,  add  6  tablespoons  sugar ;  beat  well.  Pour  over  custard 
and  brown.     Eat  warm  or  cold. — Mrs.  H.  G.  Tischer. 

5 

Lemon  Cream. 

Three  eggs,  2  tablespoons  corn  starch,  1  cup  sugar,  H  cups 
boiling  water,  1  lemon.  Have  water  boiling,  add  corn  starch 
dissolved  in  a  little  cold  water,  sugar,  juice  and  rind  of  lemon, 
beaten  egg  yolks,  boil  5  minutes.  Then  stir  in  lightly  the 
beaten  egg  white.  Pour  in  glasses,  put  whipped  cream  on 
top. — Mrs.  J.  W.  Lane. 

Lemon  Pudding. 

Three  cups  milk,  1  cup  sugar,  3  eggs,  2  tablespoons  com 
starch,  1^  lemon  (juice  and  rind),  pinch  nutmeg,  pinch  salt. 
Cook  starch  in  milk,  when  thick  add  beaten  tgg  yolks,  sugar, 
salt,  nutmeg  and  lemon.  Pour  into  a  baking  dish.  Beat  the 
whites  with  a  little  powdered  sugar,  put  on  top  and  bake  a 
light  brown.     Can  be  served  hot  or  cold. — Mrs.  J.  W.  Lane. 

"Mother's  Surprise." 

Cover  the  bottom  of  a  deep  baking  dish  with  thinly  sliced 
buttered  bread,  spread  with  layer  of  strawberry  preserves, 
another   layer  of   buttered   bread   and   preserves,   and   so   on 


PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK  59 

until  desired  amount  is  used.  The  last  layer  should  be  plain 
bread ;  add  1  cup  milk  and  bake  in  hot  oven  30  minutes. 
Uncover  and  brown.     Serve  with  cream. — Mrs.  E.  Ferch. 

Orange   Pudding. 

One-half  cup  sugar,  1  pint  milk,  1  heaping  tablespoon  corn- 
tarch,  2  eggs.  Let  sugar  and  milk  come  to  a  boil,  add  corn- 
tarch,  which  has  been  dissolved  in  some  of  the  milk.  When 
done  add  eggs  and  5  sliced  oranges. — Mrs.  Louise  M.  Lafrentz. 

Orange  Pudding. 

Slice  and  sweeten  6  oranges,  and  J  pound  nuts.  Place  in 
layers  alternately  and  put  ^  pint  of  w^hipped  cream  flavored 
with  maraschino  on  top. — Mrs.  Mandel  Z. 

Peaches  Melba. 

Cut  rounds  of  sponge  cake  or  angel  food  and  soften  with 
a  little  sherry  or  fruit  juice.  Put  a  half  peach  on  each  round 
and  fill  with  ice  cream  or  whipped  cream.  Grate  macaroons 
over  all. — Alicia  K.  Steinhoff. 

Pineapple  Whip. 

One-half  pint  whipping  cream,  5  cents  worth  of  marsh- 
mallows,  1  tablespoon  sugar,  10  maraschino  cherries,  5  slices 
of  pineapple.  Whip  cream  until  stiflF,  add  marshmallows,  cut 
in  small  pieces,  and  let  stand  1  hour.  Just  before  serving 
add  the  fruit  and  sprinkle  with  chopped  nuts  when  ready  to 
serve. — Mrs.  G.  C.  Hass. 

*  Pineapple  Float. 

Mix  1  can  shredded  pineapple  with  ^  pint  whipped  cream, 
add  sugar  to  taste  and  cut  into  it  several  marshmallows. — Mrs. 
W.  H.  Jacobs. 

Pineapple  Dessert. 

Cut  bread  into  rounds  the  size  of  a  pineapple  slice,  dip  into 
beaten  egg  and  fry  crisp  in  butter.  Spread  with  orange  mar- 
malade, lay  slice  of  pineapple  on  this  and  top  with  whipped 
cream. — Ella  Baerwald. 


60  PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK 

Prune  Pudding. 
One-half  pound  prunes,  2  cups  cold  water,  1  cup  sugar,  IJ 
cups  boiling  water,  J  cup  corn  starch,  1  saltspoon  salt,  1  piece 
stick  cinnamon.  Wash  and  soak  prunes,  cook  them  in  the  2 
cups  of  water  until  soft.  Cut  in  pieces,  crack  the  stones  and 
take  out  kernels  and  add  to  prunes.  Add  the  boiling  water 
and  cinnamon,  boil  5  minutes,  take  out  the  cinnamon,  mix  corn 
starch  with  sugar  and  salt  and  add  to  prunes ;  boil  until  clear. 
Turn  into  a  bowl  that  has  been  wet  with  cold  water,  chill  and 
serve  with  cream. — Miss  Clara  Wollerman. 

Prune  Whip. 
Stew  i  pound  prunes  with  a  little  sugar  and  water  until 
done,  put  through  collender.     Beat  the  whites  of  2  eggs  to  a 
froth,   mix   with   prunes,   bake   a   few   minutes.     Serve   with 
whipped  cream. — Mrs  J.  H.  Kalte. 

English  Plum  Pudding. 

One  pound  chopped  beef  suet,  1  pound  currants,  1  pound 
large  seedless  raisins,  1  pound  small  raisins,  1  pound  mixed 
lemon,  orange  and  citron  peel,  J  dozen  eggs,  1|  pounds 
brown  sugar,  1  teaspoon  ground  cloves,  1  teaspoon  ground 
allspice,  1  teaspoon  ground  cinnamon,  1  teaspoon  ground  nut- 
rneg,  i  cup  molasses,  |  cup  tea  mixed  with  rriolasses,  1  tea- 
spoon salt,  flour  enough  to  mix  all  into  a  stiff  batter,  ^  cup 
whisky,  2  teacups  milk,  into  which  you  have  put  i  teaspoon 
soda.     Boil  for  6  hours. — Mrs.  W.  R.  Ahrens. 

My  Own  Plum  Pudding. 
One  pound  chopped  suet,  1  pound  each  of  brown  sugar, 
currants,  raisins,  and  breadcrumbs,  1  cup  flour,  2  ounces  mixed 
peel,  pinch  of  salt,  mixed  spice  to  taste,  a  few  chopped  almonds 
and  figs,  8  eggs,  about  i  pint  milk.  Boil  3  hours.  Makes  3 
small  puddings.^ — Mrs.  F.  Ingham. 

Thanksgiving  Plum  Pudding. 

Six  crackers,  3  pints  milk,  J  cup  butter,  i  teaspoon  salt, 
1  teaspoon  mixed  spices,  6  eggs,  1  pound  seeded  raisins.     Soak 


PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK  61 


crackers  in  milk.  Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  salt,  spices  and 
eggs  well  beaten.  Stir  mixture  into  the  milk,  add  raisins. 
Bake  in  a  deep  pudding  dish  vjjell  buttered  for  3  or  4  hours. 
Stir  several  times  during  the  first  hour  to  keep  raisins  from 
settling.  Serve  with  or  without  hard  sauce  or  whipped  cream. 
— Mrs.  M.  Eckhart. 

Delicate  Rice  Pudding. 

Boil  i  cup  rice  in  IJ  cups  boiling  water.  When  nearly- 
done  add  2  cups  boiling  milk  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Cook  until 
soft,  then  add  i  cup  sugar  and  the  well  beaten  yolks  of  4 
eggs.  Beat  in  lightly  the  well  beaten  whites  of  2  eggs  and  J 
teaspoon  vanilla.  Use  the  remaining  whites  for  frosting.  Put 
in  oven  and  brown  slightly. — Mrs.  M.  Eckhart. 

Raisin  Pudding. 

Wash  and  dry  1  pound  Sultana  raisins,  grease  pudding 
dish.  Put  in  a  layer  of  boiled  rice,  over  it  a  layer  of  raisins 
and  continue  until  dish  is  nearly  filled,  having  rice  on  top. 
Beat  2  eggs,  add  2  teaspoons  of  sugar,  pinch  of  salt,  2  table- 
spoons melted  butter  or  butter  substitute,  and  2  cups  sweet 
milk.  Pour  over  pudding  and  bake  ^  hour.  Serve  with 
liquid  sauce. — Mrs.  W.  J.  Keuer. 

Snow  Puff. 

To  two  cups  of  boiled  rice  add  1  cup  of  shredded  pine- 
apple and  i  pint  whipped  cream.  Mix  well  and  set  in  cool 
place  until  ready  to  serve.     Sweeten  to  taste. 

The  success  of  this  rule  depends  upon  the  cooking  of  the 
rice.  Care  should  be  taken  that  the  rice  is  done  and  that 
the  grains  separate. — H.  E.  Weisgerber. 

Snow  Pudding. 

Two  cups  water,  1  cup  sugar,  juice  of  1  lemon,  2  egg 
whites,  2  heaping  tablespoons  corn  starch.  Boil  sugar  and 
water,  thicken  with  corn  starch  dissolved  in  a  little  cold  water ; 
boil  4  minutes,  then  add  lemon  juice.     Take  from  fire,  beat 


62  PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK 


into  the  siffly  beaten  egg  whites  and  continue  beating  for  10 
minutes.  Serve  with  custard  or  any  preferred  sauce,  or  with 
shredded  pineapple  and  whipped  cream. — Alicia  K.  Steinhoff. 

Strawberry  Pudding. 

Take  a  quart  of  ripe  berries  and  mash  in  a  deep  dish ;  sugar 
well.  Scald  1  quart  milk,  add  a  pinch  of  grated  lemon  rind 
and  thicken  with  cornstarch  and  the  yolks  of  2  eggs.  Set  aside 
to  cool.  Beat  the  2  egg  whites  to  stiff  froth.  Pour  the  custard 
over  the  berries,  then  the  egg  whites  on  top.  Put  in  hot  oven 
for  few  minutes  to  brown  the  egg  whites  slightly.  Serve  very 
cold. — Flora  Hemler. 

Strawberry  Pudding. 

One  quart  bread  crumbs,  1  quart  milk,  4  egg  yolks,  ^  cup 
sugar,  J  teaspoon  salt,  and  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  wal- 
nut. Mix  all  together  and  bake.  Spread  with  3  pints  sugared 
berries.  Beat  the  egg  whites  with  a  little  sugar,  spread  on  the 
berries,  and  put  in  oven  to  brown. — Mrs.  Mandel  Z. 

Strawberry  and  Rhubarb  Sauce. 
One  quart  strawberries,  3  to  4  pounds  rhubarb,  sugar  to 
taste.  Procure  crisp  young  rhubarb.  Clean  well  with  vege- 
table brush,  trim  off  ends  and  cut  into  ^  inch  lengths.  Boil 
almost  tender  in  a  little  water.  Add  the  strawberries  which 
have  previously  been  cleaned  and  mashed,  and  sugar  to  taste. 
Boil  until  tender.  Raspberries  may  be  used  in  place  of  straw- 
berries— Johanna  Kretchmer. 

Suet  Pudding. 
,One  cup  molasses,  1  cup  milk,  1  cup  chopped  suet,  a  little 
salt,  3  cups  flour,  2  cups  raisins,  2  teaspoons  soda,  1  teaspoon 
cinnamon,  ^  teaspoon  cloves.     Steam  3  hours. — Flora  Hemler. 

Tapioca  Custard. 
Put  a  pint  of  rich  milk  and  2  tablespoons  of  tapioca  in  a 
double   boiler  and   cook   slowly   until   transparent.     Add   the 
yolks  of  2  eggs  well  beaten  and  mixed  with  a  pinch  of  salt  and 


PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK  63 


3  tablespoons  sugar.  Stir  and  let  cook  slowly  till  thickened. 
When  the  custard  is  done  add  the  stififly  beaten  egg  whites, 
take  from  fire  and  beat  until  cool ;  then  add  |  teaspoon  vanilla 
extract.  If  lump  or  pearl  tapioca  is  used  it  should  be  soaked 
for  several  hours.  If  the  top  of  this  pudding  is  dotted  with 
crabapple  jelly  it  adds  much  to  the  appearance  and  flavor. — 
Mrs.  Mandel  Z. 

•  Mock  Whipped  Cream. 

A  little  powdered  sugar  added  to  the  juice  of  1  orange 
then  to  the  stififly  beaten  froth  of  1  egg  makes  a  good  invalid 
dessert,  also  a  good  substitute  for  whipped  cream. — Mrs.  O. 
Kleppisch. 


Gelatine  Desserts 

Chocolate  Bavarian  Cream. 
Soak  I  box  gelatine  in  1  cup  cold  water  |  hour.  Whip  1 
pint  of  cream  and  set  on  ice.  Boil  1  pint  of  milk  and  add  2 
ounces  grated  chocolate  and  the  gelatine.  When  mixed 
take  from  stove  and  add  ^  cup  of  sugar  and  vanilla  to  flavor. 
When  cold  add  cream  stirring  carefully.  Pour  in  mold  and 
set  on  ice  to  harden. — Mrs.  R.  Baur. 

Maple  Bavarian  Cream. 

One  cup  maple  syrup,  ^  package  gelatine,  1  cup  chopped 
walnuts,  1|  cups  heavy  cream,  3  eggs  (separate  yolks  from 
whites)  and  J  cup  cold  water.  Boil  syrup  and  pour  it  gradu- 
ally on  the  beaten  eggs.  Beat  thoroughly  and  cook  over  hot 
water  until  thick.  Add  gelatine  dissolved  in  cold  water.  Add 
nut  meats.  Set  on  ice  until  mixture  begins  to  harden.  Beat 
until  frothy,  fold  in  the  whipped  cream  and  whites  of  eggs  and 
set  away  to  harden. — Mrs.  R.  Albrecht. 

Cream  Sponge. 

Soak  2  teaspoons  of  gelatine  in  cold  water.  Take  juice  of 
1  orange  and  i  lemon.  Beat  2  eggs  with  ^  cup  sugar,  add  this 
to  the  juice  then  the  gelatine  to  which  has  been  added  less 


64  PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK 


than  i  cup  of  boiling  water;  when  just  beginning  to  harden, 
add  i  pint  of  whipped  cream.  Add  nuts  and  fruit  and  place 
some  on  top  when  cold. — Mrs.  R.  Baur. 

Grape-nuts  Fruit  Pudding. 

One  package  lemon  gelatine  dissolved  in  1  pint  boiling 
water,  1  cup  grape-nuts,  i  pound  raisins  or  dates,  as  many 
walnuts  as  desired.  Mix  thoroughly  and  pour  into  a  dish  or 
mould  to  cool  and  harden.  Serve  with  whipped  cream. — Mrs. 
H.  A.  Zom. 

Gelatine  Pudding. 

Two  envelopes  Knox  Sparkling  Gelatine,  7  eggs,  1  table- 
spoon vanilla,  1  quart  milk,  1  cup  sugar,  1  cup  seedless  raisins. 
Soak  gelatine  in  1  pint  cold  water ;  add  milk,  sugar  and  raisins ; 
heat,  stirring  until  it  comes  to  boiling  point.  Have  yolks  of 
eggs  well  beaten,  add  the  hot  milk,  a  little  at  a  time  so  it  will 
not  curdle,  but  do  not  let  it  boil,  then  beat  in  the  well  beaten 
egg  whites.  Beat  briskly  until  thoroughly  mixed.  Flavor  and 
turn  into  mold.  When  ready  to  serve  turn  out  on  large  flat 
dish  and  cover  with  whipped  cream. — Mrs.  E.  S.  Berndt. 

Lenion  Sponge. 

Take  the  juice  of  4  lemons,  4  eggs,  1  cupful  of  sugar,  ^ 
package  of  gelatine,  and  1  pint  of  water.  Strain  the  lemon 
juice  on  the  sugar,  beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  and  mix  with 
the  remainder  of  the  water,  having  used  half  a  cup  of  the  pint 
in  which  to  soak  the  gelatine,  add  the  sugar  and  lem'on  to  this 
and  boil  for  about  1  minute,  then  remove  from  the  fire  ancj  add 
the  gelatine.  Stir  until  the  gelatine  is  dissolved,  then  strain 
into  a  dish  and  set  in  a  cold  place.  When  it  begins  to  thicken, 
beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  stiff  and  then  pour  the  thickening 
gelatine  gradually  over  the  whites,  beating  continually  until 
it  is  thoroughly  mixed.  Serve  with  whipped  cream. — Mrs. 
W.  R.  Ahrens. 

Mock  Ice  Cream. 

Three  tablespoons  rice  boiled  in  1  pint  milk,  pinch  salt,  1 
tablespoon  gelatine  soaked  in  cold  water.  Whip  J  pint  cream 
and  add  to  first  mixture. — Mrs.  C.  B.  Moellering. 


PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK  65 


Marchionesse  Pudding. 

One  pint  whipping  cream,  1  cup  powdered  sugar,  ^  box  of 
Knox  gelatine.  Soak  gelatine  in  cold  water,  then  add  hot 
water  to  dissolve,  J  cup.  Whip  cream,  add  sugar,  few  drops 
vanilla,  whites  of  2  eggs,  beaten  stiff.  When  gelatine  is  cold, 
beat  it  into  pudding  and  whatever  fruit  you  want.  Beat  until 
it  begins  to  thicken,  then  place  in  mould.  If  you  wish  it  pink, 
use  ^  of  coloring  which  comes  with  the  gelatine.  This  serves 
ten  people.     Slice  like  ice  cream  and  serve. — Mrs.  R.  Shotts. 

Pineapple  Pudding. 

One  15  cent  can  grated  pineapple,  f  cup  sugar,  2  heaping 
teaspoons  Knox  gelatine,  1  cup  boiling  water,  1  cup  whipped 
cream,  juice  of  1  lemon.  Mix  pineapple  and  sugar  and  boil 
till  thick.  Dissolve  gelatine  in  boiling  water  and  pour  over 
pineapple.  When  cooled  stir  in  the  whipped  cream  and  then 
add  the  lemon  juice. — Mrs.  H.  Trippler. 

Pineapple  Pudding. 

Put  1  can  of  grated  pineapple  in  saucepan,  add  1  cup  of 
sugar  and  1  pint  of  water;  boil  till  sugar  is  dissolved.  Take 
1  envelope  of  gelatine,  dissolve  in  ^  cup  of  warm  water  and 
add  pineapple.  Let  boil  3  minutes,  pour  in  mould  to  cool. 
Serve  with  whipped  cream. — Mrs.  W.  H.  Mampe. 

Pineapple  Snow  Pudding. 

Four  eggs  whites,  beaten  to  a  froth,  1  cup  powdered  sugar, 
^  package  gelatine,  1  cup  lukewarm  water,  ^  can  shredded 
pineapple.  Gradually  sift  sugar  into  beaten  whites.  Dis- 
solve gelatine  in  lukewarm  water,  and  when  dissolved  add 
to  whites.  Then  add  pineapple.  Beat  about  10  minutes  and 
set  aside  to  stift'en. 

Sauce. — Four  egg  yolks,  1  pint  milk.  Beat  yolks  to  a 
froth.  Put  on  milk  to  boil,  then  gradually  add  milk  to  yolks 
and  a  little  sugar  and  vanilla  to  taste.  Put  on  fire  and  just 
let  come  to  boil.  When  ready  to  serve,  pour  over  pudding. — 
Johanna  Kretchmer. 


66  PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK 


Mock  Plum  Pudding. 
Into  1  package  hot  jello  (any  flavor)  stir  f  cup  raisins,  | 
cup  currants,  f  cup  stewed  prunes,  J  cup  chopped  nuts,  f 
cup  grape-nuts,  1  teaspoon  cinnamon,  and  |  teaspoon  ground 
cloves.  Slice,  when  chilled,  and  serve  with  whipped  cream. — 
Mrs.  E.  H.  Pierce. 

Raspberry  Delight. 

Press  1  banana  through  a  sieve  add  juice  of  i  lemon,  J  cup 
of  sugar,  1  egg  well  beaten.  Beat  all  together  until  very  light 
and  set  in  a  cold  place.  Dissolve  1  package  of  raspberry 
jello  in  1  pint  boiling  water  and  turn  into  a  mould  to  harden. 
When  ready  to  serve,  pour  the  banana  mixture  over. — ^Mrs. 
Edw.  J.  Keuer. 

Rice  Cream  Pudding. 

Soak  1  tablespoon  gelatine  30  minutes,  then  add  J  cup 
boiling  water.  Boil  5  tablespoons  rice  30  niinutes  in  plenty 
of  water,  then  drain ;  when  cold,  add  gelatine  and  1  pint 
whipping  cream,  whipped  stif¥,  to  which  has  been  added  J 
cup  powdered  sugar,  1  teaspoon  vanilla  and  a  pinch  of  salt, 
place  dn  ice. — Mrs.  G.  Leuthesser. 

Spanish  Cream. 
Beat  the  yolks  of  4  eggs  and  4  tablespoons  sugar  together 
till  creamy.  Cover  half  a  box  of  gelatine  with  a  little  milk  to 
dissolve  it.  Heat  1  quart  milk  to  boiling  point  and  add  the 
dissolved  gelatine,  eggs  and  sugar  and  let  it  thicken  but  do 
not  let  it  boil.  Remove  from  fire,  beat  occasionally  until  per- 
fectly cold,  then  add  the  stiflfly  beaten  egg  whites ;  flavor  with 
vanilla  and  cool  on  ice. — Mrs.  Mandel  Z. 


Pies 

Pie  Crust. 

One  cup  flour,  2  tablespoons  lard,  2  tablespoons  water.  Cut 
and  mix  lard  with  flour,  add  water  and  roll. — Mrs.  H.  Trip- 
ler. 


PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK  67 

Banana  Cream  Pie. 
Bake  a  very  rich  crust  in  deep  pie  tins,  when  done  fill  with 

2  good  size  sliced  bananas.  Filling:  |  cup  sugar,  2  tablespoons 
flour,  stir  together.  Butter  size  of  an  Ggg,  pinch  of  salt,  yolks 
of  3  eggs,  1  pint  of  rich  milk.  Stir  all  together  and  cook  in 
double  boiler  until  thick.  Remove  from  fire,  flavor  with  1 
small  teaspoon  vanilla  and  pour  over  bananas.     Beat  whites  of 

3  eggs  to  a  very  stiff  froth,  add  I  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar, 
fold  in  3  tablespoons  of  sugar,  pile  on  top  of  cream  and  set  in 
bottom  oven  to  brown.  This  filling  is  enough  for  2  pies. — 
Mrs.  Arthur  Emde. 

Butterscotch  Pie. 
Boil  1  cup  brown  sugar,  2  tablespoons  of  flour,  1  cup  water, 

1  tablespoon  butter,  yolks  of  2  eggs.  Pour  into  a  baked 
crust,  put  a  meringue  on  top  of  pie  and  brown  in  a  moderate 
oven. — Mrs.  H.  W.  Bruedigam. 

Brown  Sugar  Pie. 

Cook  until  smooth  f  cup  brown  sugar,  |  tablespoon  but- 
ter, 2  tablespoons  milk.     Mix  together  the  yolks  of  2  eggs, 

2  heaping  tablespoons  flour  and  2  cups  milk.  Add  this  to  first 
mixture  and  boil  till  thick.  Bake  crust  first  and  put  a  meringue 
on  top  of  pie. — Mrs.  \V.  Brockschmidt. 

Chocolate  Pie. 
One  cup  sugar,  |  cup  grated  chocolate,  2  tablespoons  corn- 
starch or  flour,  2  cups  boiling  water,  2  eggs,  2  tablespoons  but- 
ter, and  1  teaspoon  vanilla.  Blend  together  the  sugar,  choco- 
late and  flour,  add  water  and  cook  until  thick.  Then  add  the 
beaten  yolks  and  let  simmer  for  5  minutes.  Add  the  butter 
and  vanilla  and  pour  into  a  baked  crust.  Beat  the  whites  stiff, 
add  3  tablespoons  powdered  sugar,  place  lightly  over  the  top 
and  brown. — Mrs.  Sodeman. 

Cottage  Cheese  Pie. 

One  cup  fresh  cottage  cheese  mashed  fine,  2  well  beaten 
eggs,  I  cup  sugar  and  enough  rich  milk  or  cream  to  make  the 


68  PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK 

whole  of  the  consistency  of  thin  batter.  Add  a  handful  of  cur- 
rants and  flavor  with  nutmeg  or  cinnamon.  Pour  over  single 
crust  as  for  custard  pie  and  bake  in  moderate  oven. — Mrs.  H. 
W.  Bruedigam. 

Cranberry  Pie. 

One  cup  of  cranberries,  J  cup  raisins,  1  cup  sugar,  ^  cup 
hot  water,  1  tablespoon  vanilla,  1  tablespoon  butter,  1  teaspoon 
flour  mixed  in  with  sugar.  Mix  all  these  ingredients  together 
in  a  bowl.  Line  pie  plate  with  crust,  pour  in  the  mixture,  place 
top  crust  on  and  bake  20  minutes.  This  is  delicious,  and 
tastes  like  cherry  pie. — Mrs.  R.  Albrecht. 

Cream  Pie. 

Two  cups  milk  heated  to  scalding,  J  cup  sugar  mixed  with 
2  tablespoons  flour,  then  add  1  tablespoon  butter  and  well 
beaten  yolks  of  2  eggs,  any  desired  flavoring.  Bake  crust  al- 
most done,  add  custard.  Beat  whites  of  eggs,  put  on  top  and 
brown. — Mrs.  A.  L.  Dunfrund. 

Custard  Pie. 
Beat  well  the  yolks  of  3  eggs.  Stir  thoroughly  a  tablespoon 
of  sifted  flour  into  3  tablespoons  of  sugar;  this  separates  the 
particles  of  flour  so  there  will  be  no  lumps.  Add  it  to  the 
yolks,  put  in  a  pinch  of  salt,  a  teaspoon  full  of  vanilla  and  a 
little  grated  nutmeg ;  now  add  the  beaten  whites  and  lastly  a 
pint  of  scalded,  not  boiled  milk,  which  has  been  cooled.  Mix 
this  in  by  degrees  and  turn  all  into  a  deep  pie  tin  lined  with 
crust  and  bake  25  to  30  minutes. — Mrs.  Hunt. 

Corn  Custard  Pie. 
One  cup  grated  corn,  J  cup  of  milk,  salt  and  cayenne  to 
taste,  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut,  1  rounded  tablespoon  corn 
starch,  yolks  of  2  eggs.  Bake  with  an  under  crust  only,  and 
when  done  cover  with  a  meringue  made  from  the  whites  of  2 
eggs,  to  which  add  a  pinch  of  salt  and  a  pinch  of  cream  of  tar- 
tar, but  no  sugar.     Brown  delicately. — Mrs.  Albrecht. 


PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK  69 

Lemon  Cream  Pie. 

Line  a  deep  tin  with  a  crust  a  little  thicker  than  for  fruit 
pies. 

Filling. — Four  tablespoons  lemon  juice,  grated  rind  of  1 
lemon,  IJ  cups  water,  1  cup  sugar,  J  cup  cornstarch,  3  egg 
yolks.  Dissolve  cornstarch  in  4  tablespoons  of  water,  put 
remainder  of  water,  lemon  juice  and  J  the  sugar  into  double 
boiler  and  let  come  to  boiling  point,  then  stir  in  the  dissolved 
starch.  Stir  constantly  until  well  thickened,  then  remove 
from  direct  heat,  beat  remaining  sugar,  lemon  rind  and  yolks 
until  creamy  and  stir  into  hot  mixture.  Pour  into  lined  pie 
plate  and  bake  in  steady  oven  until  well  set.  When  done  let 
cool  before  putting  on  meringue  or  it  will  draw  moisture. 

Meringue. — Beat  3  egg  whites  with  pinch  of  salt  until  they 
froth,  add  J  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar  and  beat  until  stiff;  add 
3  tablespoons  powdered  sugar  and  5  drops  lemon  extract.  Pile 
on  pie  and  brown  in  moderate  oven.  Let  cool  in  warm  place. 
— Mrs.  G.  C.  Hass. 

Mapleine  Pie. 
One  cup  milk,  3  level  tablespoons  corn  starch,  J  teaspoon 
salt,  2  tablespoons  butter,  J  cup  light  brown  sugar,  1  teaspoon 
Mapleine.  Heat  milk  in  double  boiler.  Mix  corn  starch  and 
salt  perfectly  smooth  in  J  cup  cold  milk.  Add  to  hot  milk 
and  cook  until  smooth  and  thick.  Cook  the  butter  and  sugar 
till  smooth  and  soft,  and  add  to  cornstarch  mixture.  Then 
add  Mapleine  and  the  two  egg  yolks  beaten  light  and  diluted 
with  a  little  of  the  hot  mixture.  Cool  slightly,  fill  baked  pie 
shell,  cover  with  meringue  of  remaining  egg  whites  and  brown 
slightly. — Mrs.  P.  Weissbrodt. 

Fruit  Mincemeat. 

Two  pounds  of  apples  pared  and  cored,  1  pound  raisins,  1 
pound  sultanas,  1  pound  currants,  |  pound  beef  suet,  ^  pound 
stoned  prunes,  ^  pound  figs,  4  ounces  shelled  almonds,  juice 
and  grated  rind  of  1  orange  and  2  lemons,  f  ounce  of  mixed 
ground  spices,  i  pint  cider.  Mix  thoroughly  and  put  away 
in  glass  jars. — Mrs.  Albrecht. 


70  PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK  ^ 

1 

Mince  Meat.  | 

Three  pounds  of  beef,   J  peck  apples,  1   pound  raisins,  ll 
pound  currants,  |  pound  suet,  i  pound  citron,  ^  gallon  cider, 
2  pounds  brown  sugar,  2  nutrriegs  grated,  cinnamon  and  cloves 
to  taste. — Josephine  O'Rourke. 

Mince  Meat. 
Four  pounds  beef,  2  pounds  suet,  8  pounds  apples,  (pared 
and  cored)  2  pounds  currants,  2  pounds  raisins,  1  pound 
citron,  (may  be  omitted)  2  lemons,  2  oranges,  4  pounds  brown 
sugar,  J  tablespoon  mace,  1  tablespoon  cinnamon,  1  tablespoon 
alspice,  2  tablespoons  cloves,  2  tablespoons  salt.  Boil  meat 
until  tender,  remove  bones  and  put  through  food  chopper. 
Chop  suet  and  apples  in  small  pieces,  add  oranges  and  lemons 
cut  fine,  and  remaining  ingredients.  Mix  with  enough  cider 
to  scarcely  cover.  Cook  1  hour,  and  put  in  jars. — Clare  L. 
Kemnitz. 

Pumpkin  Pie. 

One  cup  strained  pumpkin  or  squash,  1  cup  cream  or  milk, 
1  cup  sugar,  3  eggs  slightly  beaten,  |  cup  cognac,  |  teaspoon 
nutmeg,   1   teaspoon   ginger,    1    teaspoon   cinnamon   and   salt. 

Process. — Line  a  deep  pan  with  rich  paste.  Wet  the 
edges  and  lay  a  rim  of  pastry  around  1  inch  wide ;  flute  with 
the  fingers  and  build  rim  up  well.  Wash  over  with  the  slightly 
beaten  white  of  egg.  Mix  sugar  and  spices,  add  to  squash  or 
purrfpkin,  add  eggs  and  cream  slowly  while  beating  briskly. 
Add  brandy,  fill  crust  and  bake  35  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 
— Mrs.  Hunt. 

Pumpkin  Pie. 

Mix  together  IJ  cups  cooked  and  sifted  pumpkin,  1  cup 
milk,  i  cup  sugar,  J  teaspoon  mace  and  1  beaten  egg.  Bake 
about  40  minutes  in  a  deep  plate  lined  with  pastry. — Olga  T. 
Bohnsack. 

Mock  Pumpkin  Pie. 
One  medium  sized  potato  boiled  and  mashed,   1   heaping 
teaspoon  butter,  same  of  flour,  1  egg,  |  cup  molasses,  |  cup 


PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK  71 

sugar,  and  1  cup  of  hot  milk.     Flavor  with  cinnamon,  nutmeg 
and  vanilla,  and  bake  in  one  crust. — Mrs.  Anna  Steging. 

Sweet  Potato  Pie. 

One  pound  of  steamed  or  boiled  sweet  potaoes  finely 
mashed,  2  cups  sugar,  1  cup  cream,  J  cup  butter,  3  well  beaten 
eggs.  Flavor  with  lemon  or  nutmeg  and  bake  with  an  under 
crust. — Alicia  K.  Steinhofif. 

Squash  Pie. 

Two  cups  boiled  squash,  |  cup  brown  sugar,  3  eggs,  2 
tablespoons  molasses,  1  tablespoon  melted  butter,  1  tablespoon 
ginger,  1  teaspoon  cinnamon,  2  cups  sw^eet  milk,  pinch  of  salt. 
— Mrs.  Jacobs. 

Raisin  Pie. 

One  egg  1  lemon,  1  cup  sugar,  1  tablespoon  flour,  1  tea- 
spoon cornstarch,  ^  cup  raisins.  Cover  raisins  with  1  cup 
water  and  soak  them  for  2  hours.  Beat  the  Ggg  light  with  the 
sugar,  add  the  strained  lemon  and  the  cornstarch ;  then  add  the 
raisins  and  water,  in  which  they  were  soaked.  Cook  until 
the  mixture  thickens.  Cool  and  bake  in  2  crusts. — Mrs.  R.  J. 
Frank. 

Rhubarb  Pie. 

Pour  boiling  water  over  2  cups  chopped  rhubarb.  Drain 
off  the  water  after  4  or  5  minutes  and  mix  rhubarb  with  1  cup 
sugar,  2  Qgg  yolks,  a  piece  of  butter,  1  tablespoon  flour,  and 
moisten  with  3  tablespoons^  water.  Bake  with  lower  crust 
only.  Make  a  meringue  of  the  whites  of  eggs,  and  4  table- 
spoons sugar;  spread  over  top  of  pie  and  return  to  oven  to 
brown. — Mrs.  M.  Brockman. 


Cheese  and  E^gs 

Cheese  Balls. 

Put  American  cheese  and  stufifed  olives  through  a  meat 
grinder.  Roll  into  balls  and  serve  with  crackers. — Mrs.  H.  A. 
Zorn. 


12  PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK 


Cheese  Fluff. 

Place  cream  cheese  or  a  mild  neufchatel  in  a  bowl  and  pour 
on  it  thick  sweet  cream.  With  a  fork  whip  to  a  fluffy  mixture. 
Place  cheese  on  lettuce  hollow  out  a  space  in  the  center  and 
fill  with  bar  le  due  or  currant  jelly. — Alicia  K.  Steinhoff. 

Baked  Crackers  with  Cheese. 

Butter  soda  crackers,  put  on  them  as  much  grated  cheese 
with  a  small  speck  of  salt  and  pepper  as  each  cracker  will  hold. 
Cook  in  hot  oven  till  the  cheese  is  melted,  about  2  minutes. 
Serve  at  once. — Alicia  K.  Steinhoff. 

Cheese  Souffle. 

Put  2  tablespoons  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  2  tablespoons 
flour ;  when  smooth  add  \  cup  milk,  salt,  and  a  few  grains  cay- 
enne. Cook  2  minutes ;  add  yolks  of  2  eggs  well  beaten 
and  \  cup  grated  cheese.  Let  cool ;  when  cold  add  the  whites 
beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Turn  into  a  buttered  dish  and  bake 
25  to  30  minutes.     Serve  at  once. — Alicia  K.  Steinhoff. 

Welsh  Rarebit. 

One  cup  milk,  1  saltspoon  cornstarch,  1  teaspoon  butter, 
salt,  cayenne,  mustard.  Stir  until  it  thickens,  add  \  pound 
American  cheese  when  smooth.  Serve  on  toast. — Mrs.  H.  G. 
Tischer. 

Cheese  Sandwiches. 

Take  20  cents  worth  of  American  cheese,  3  small  cans 
pimentoes,  \  pound  boiled  ham  or  \  pound  bacon  fried,  and 
put  all  through  the  food  chopper.  Mix  with  mayonnaise.  This 
quantity  is  sufficient  for  about  50  sandwiches. — Mrs.  O'Rourke. 

Cheese  Sandwiches. 

One-half  pound  American  cheese,  2  green  peppers  (  charp), 
2  onions,  12  sweet  pickles.  Chop  very  fine  and  add  mayon- 
naise dressing.     Spread  on  buttered  bread. — Mrs.  Graser. 


PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK  7Z 


Sandwich  Filling. 

After  removing  the  seeds  of  a  sweet  green  pepper,  chop 
fine  and  add  to  two  cakes  of  Blue  Label  cheese.  Thin  all 
with  mayonnaise  dressing  so  it  can  be  spread  easily. — Mrs. 
E.  A.  Bierdemann. 

Cheese  Straws. 

Roll  plain  pastry  J  inch  thick,  sprinkle  J  with  grated 
cheese  (American)  to  which  has  been  added  a  few  grains  of 
salt  and  cayenne.  Fold,  press  edges  firmly  together,  fold 
again,  and  roll  out  J  inch  thick.  Sprinkle  with  cheese  and 
proceed  as  before.  Repeat  again.  Cut  in  strips  6  inches  long 
and  J  inch  wide.  Bake  8  minutes  in  hot  oven.  Pile  log  cabin 
fashion  and  serve  with  salad. — Mrs.  F.  Nyendorf. 

Bird's  Nest  Toast. 

Toast  bread  a  light  brown.  Beat  the  white  of  1  &gg,  put 
on  top  of  a  piece  of  toast  and  put  yolk  in  center;  put  in  oven 
to  brown. — Mrs.  Sodeman. 

Egg  Cutlets. 
Blend  1  tablespoon  flour  with  1  tablespoon  butter.     Add  ^ 
cup  hot  milk  and  cook  thick.     Add  3  or  4  hard  boiled  eggs, 
chopped  fine,  salt,  pepper,  a  pinch  of  onion  and  parsley.     Make 
into  balls  and  fry  in  hot  lard. — Mrs.  PI.  G.  Tischer. 

Escalloped  Eggs. 
Place  6  eggs  in  boiling  water  and  keep  the  eggs  simmering 
for  30  minutes.  Then  lay  eggs  in  cold  water  for  5  minutes. 
Remove  shells,  cut  whites  in  thin  slices,  place  in  a  baking  dish 
and  crumble  the  yolks  over  them.  Make  a  white  sauce  of 
2  tablespoons  butter,  2  tablespoons  flour,  and  1  pint  milk; 
season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Pour  over  the  prepared  eggs 
and  spread  1  cup  of  buttered  crumbs  on  top.  Bake  about  15 
minutes  in  a  hot  oven. — Alicia  K.  Steinhoff. 

Deviled  Eggs. 

Peel  and  cut  in  half  12  hard  boiled  eggs.  Take  out  the 
yolks  and  mash  smooth  while  warm.     Mix  1  heaping  teaspoon 


74  PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK 


butter,  1  level  teaspoon  mustard,  2  tablespoons  vinegar,  and  1 
heaping  teaspoon  sugar.  Mix  with  yolks  and  put  back  in  the 
whites.  Put  a  thin  slice  of  sweet  green  or  red  pepper  on  top. 
Very  good. — Mrs.  Sodemann. 

Stuffed  Eggs. 

Cut  hard  boiled  eggs  into  halves.  Rub  yolks  to  a  cream 
with  melted  butter;  add  minced  ham,  salt,  pepper  and  a  little 
mustard.  Fill  the  whites  with  this  mixture  :  Tongue,  minced 
olives,  minced  mushrooms  or  capers  may  be  used  instead  of 
ham. — Mrs.  H.  A.  Zorn. 

Omelet  with  Chicken  Livers. 
Scald  3  chicken  livers,  drain  cover  w^ith  fresh  boiling  water 
and  simmer  for  20  minutes.  Drain  and  cut  in  tiny  cubes.  -  Put 
in  a  frying  pan  with  1  heaping  teaspoon  butter,  10  drops  onion 
juice,  and  1  tablespoon  finely  chopped  mushrooms.  Shake 
and  turn  until  well  colored.  Beat  6  eggs  slightly,  add  3  table- 
spoons water,  J  teaspoon  salt  and  a  dash  of  pepper.  Melt 
1  teaspoon  butter  in  a  frying  pan,  and  when  hot,  turn  in  the 
beaten  eggs.  When  set,  spread  the  prepared  livers  in  the  cen- 
ter of  the  omelet,  fold,  turn  out  on  a  hot  platter  and  serve  at 
once. — Mrs.  R.  Albrecht. 

Omelet  with  Fried  Tomatoes. 

Wipe  and  peel  2  tomatoes ;  cut  in  two  slices ;  three  if  large. 
Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper  and  dredge  with  flour.  Fry 
1  teaspoon  onion  in  1  tablespoon  butter,  till  yellow ;  draw  it 
to  one  side  and  quickly  fry  the  tomatoes,  adding  more  butter 
if  needed.  Place  on  a  hot  platter  and  then  make  a  plain  omelet 
with  2  to  4  eggs,  according  to  size  desired.  Beat  the  eggs 
slightly  with  a  fork,  add  a  dash  of  pepper  and  1  tablespoon 
hot  water  to  each  egg.  Turn  into  hot  buttered  frying  pan, 
and  as  it  thickens  draw  the  cooked  part  to  the  center;  when 
nearly  all  thick  shake  on  a  little  salt.  Let  it  color  slightly, 
turn  out  on  platter  having  the  tomatoes  arranged  around  it. — 
Mrs.  H.  G.  Tischer. 


PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK  75 

Scrambled  Eggs  with  Tom,ato. 
Melt  2  tablespoons  butter,  add  1  tablespoon  each  of  chopped 
green  pepper  and  onion,  1  cup  cooked  tomato,  J  teaspoon  salt. 
When   hot,   add   4  eggs   slightly  beaten ;   stir   carefully,   and 
when  scrambled  serve  on  toast.     — ^Alicia  K.  Steinhoff. 


Dumplings  and  Noodles 

Never  Fail  Dumplings. 
One  and  one-half  cups  flour,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder, 
pinch  salt.  Mix,  add  1  egg  and  f  cup  sweet  milk.  Stir  and 
drop  by  the  spoonful  into  boiling  chicken,  veal,  or  lamb  broth. 
Keep  covered  for  5  minutes,  then  uncover  anxl  boil  a  few^ 
minutes  longer.     Serve  at  once. — Mrs.  A.  J.  Koehneke. 

Steamed  Dumplings. 

Two  cups  flour,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  2  eggs,  ^  tea- 
spoon salt,  7  tablespoons  milk.  Mix  well  and  drop  in  steamer 
with  tablespoon.     Nice  with  stewed  chicken. — Mrs.  Sodemann. 

Corn  Dumplings. 

Make  a  nice  light  biscuit  dough  and  form  it  into  small,  thin 
rounds,  just  large  enough  to  hold  1  heaping  tablespoon  corn, 
seasoned  to  taste.  Add  a  lump  of  butter  and  form  into  round 
dumplings.  Steam  for  about  30  minutes  and  serve  as  a  garnish 
for  stewed  chicken. — Mrs.  Albrecht. 

Cracker  Dumplings. 

One  heaping  tablespoon  butter,  3  eggs,  10  crackers,  nutmeg 
and  lemon  rind  to  taste.  Stir  butter  to  cream,  add  yolks  of 
eggs,  nutmeg  and  lemon  rind ;  add  whites  of  eggs,  beaten  stiff, 
and  lastly  crackers,  rolled  fine.  Form  little  balls,  drop  in  boil- 
ing soup  and  let  boil  for  a  few  minutes. — Mrs.  John  C.  Koebel. 

Farina  Dumplings. 

Boil  J  cup  farina  in  1  cup  soup,  then  remove  from  stove 
add  1  egg  and  nutmeg  to  taste.     Drop  into  soup  from  a  table- 


n  PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK 


spoon  and  boil  5  minutes  before  serving. — Mrs.  Wm.  Bohn- 
sack. 

Liver  Dumplings. 

One  pound  calf's  liver,  2  eggs,  3  slices  w^hite  bread,  \\  cups 
flour.  Chop  liver  fine,  add  beaten  eggs  and  bread.  Allow  to 
stand  until  bread  is  soft,  then  add  flour,  pepper  and  salt. 
Drop  into  boiling  broth  and  boil  about  20  minutes. — Mrs.  Wm. 
Hinrichs. 

Meat  Dumplings  (for  Soup). 

One-half  pound  chopped  beef  and  pork,  2  slices  stale  v^hite 
bread  (soaked  in  cold  w^ater  and  pressed  dry),  1  ^^z,  1  good 
sized  grated  onion,  parsley,  pepper,  salt,  nutmeg  to  taste.  Mix 
all  together,  form  in  small  balls.  Boil  in  soup  10  minutes 
without  a  cover. — Mrs.  C.  B.  Moellering. 

Potato  Dumplings. 

Grate  6  boiled  potatoes  and  add  4  or  5  rolled  crackers,  then 
add  2  eggs  beaten  with  1  spoon  milk.  Mix,  add  1  teaspoon 
salt,  pinch  of  baking  powder  and  enuogh  flour  to  handle.  Form 
into  balls  and  drop  into  boiling  water;  cook  30  minutes. — Mrs. 
Mandel  Z. 

Potato  Dumplings. 

Boil  and  mash  about  10  medium  sized  potatoes,  or  use  left 
over  potatoes  and  grate  them.  Then  grate  about  20  raw  pota- 
toes and  squeeze  dry  in  cheese  cloth.  Mix  all  together  and  add 
about  3  slices  white  bread  cut  into  cubes,  shape  into  balls,  put 
into  boiling  water  and  boil  \  hour.  Serve  with  pork  roast  or 
sauer  braten. — Mrs.  Wm.  C.  Hinricks. 

Filled  Noodles. 

This  recipe  will  make  enough  for  4  or  5  persons.  Cook 
\  peck  spinach  well,  drain  and  chop  real  fine.  Fry  1^  pounds 
pork  shoulder  and  when  done  put  through  meat  chopper  so 
it  will  be  real  fine ;  season  with  pepper,  salt,  a  little  nutmeg 
and  2  eggs.  Mix  with  the  gravy  from  the  fried  pork.  Make 
noodle  dough  and  roll  out;  they  should  not  be  too  dry,  cut 
them  in  triangles  or  3-inch  three  cornered  pieces.     Put  about  1 


PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK  11 


tablespoon  filling  on  each  and  roll  up.  Wet  edge  and  close  all 
around.  Cook  them  in  salt  water,  drain  in  colander ;  when 
cold  fry  in  butter. — Mrs.  E.  S.  Berndt. 

Filled  Noodles. 

Make  a  regular  noodle  dough  with  4  eggs ;  do  not  roll  too 
thin,  and  do  not  allow  them  to  dry.  Cut  into  7-inch  squares, 
and  put  on  each  one  a  large  tablespoon  of  the  following  mix- 
ture :  1  pound  chopped  beef,  veal  or  pork,  together  or  sepa- 
rately (leftovers  are  good  for  this),  add  \  pound  of  bread  or 
crackers  soaked  in  water  and  squeezed  out,  4  eggs,  salt  and 
pepper,  finely  chopped  onion.  Mix  all  ingredients  well,  fill  the 
squares  and  then  fold  over  the  ends  to  the  center  like  an 
envelope  and  pat  them  about  f  inch  thick.  Put  in  boil- 
ing salt  water  and  boil  20  minutes.  Strain  and  serve  with 
butter  and  gravy,  or  use  in  soup. — Mrs.  Mandel  Z. 

Potato  Noodles. 

Boil  8  potatoes  and  put  through  ricer  on  bread  board,  make 
hollow  in  center  and  add  2  cups  flour,  3  beaten  eggs,  1  teaspoon 
salt;  knead  it,  cut  in  strips,  roll  with  hands  and  cut  into  little 
pieces.  Roll  each  into  inch  length  and  thickness  of  a  pencil ; 
boil  about  5  minutes  in  4  quarts  boiling  water  and  1  table- 
spoon salt.  Strain  and  pour  over  some  melted  butter.  Serve 
with  browned  bread  or  cracker  crumbs. — Ada  Burhop  Bohn- 
sack. 


Fritters,  Doughnuts, 
Pan-cakes 

Apple  Fritters. 
Two  cups  flour,  2  tablespoons  sugar,  \  teaspoon  salt,  1 
cup  milk,  1  ^^z,  4  teaspoons  baking  powder.  Mix  and  sift  dry 
ingredients,  add  beaten  ^ZZ^  to  milk  add  tablespoon  melted 
lard.  Pare  the  apples  cut  in  small  pieces,  and  mix  in  batter, 
drop  by  spoonful  into  hot  lard  and  fry  until  brown. — Mrs.  F. 
Nyendorf. 


78  PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK 


Apple  Fritters. 

Pass  through  a  sieve,  1  cup  flour,  1  level  teaspoonful  bak- 
ing powder,  1  level  tablespoonful  powdered  sugar,  and  J  tea- 
spoonful  salt.  Beat  1  egg  until  very  light ;  add  J  cup  of  milk, 
and  stir  it  in  to  the  dry  ingredients.  Then  stir  in  two  apples, 
pared,  cored  and  cut  in  smlall  bits.  Have  ready  a  kettle  of 
hot  fat ;  drop  the  batter  into  the  fat  by  spoonfuls  and  let  fry 
until  delicately  browned.  Drain  on  soft  paper,  serve  with 
powdered  sugar  or  a  jelly  sauce.  Bananas,  peaches,  (fresh 
fruits  or  canned)  may  be  used, — Mrs.  Anna  A.  Jaekel. 

Banana  Fritters. 

Mix  1  Clip  flour,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder,  2  tablespoons 
sugar,  I  saltspoon  of  salt.  Beat  1  egg  light  with  ^  cup  of 
milk,  then  add  to  dry  ingredients.  Then  add  3  fine  mashed 
bananas,  and  1  tablespoon  of  lemon  juice.  Drop  by  the  spoon- 
ful in  deep  fat  and  fry.  Drain  on  paper  and  sprinkle  with  pow- 
dered sugar. — Mrs.  W.  C.  Henrichs. 

Doughnuts. 
One  cup  sugar,  1 J  cups  milk,  IJ  pints  flour,  1  tablespoon 
butter  or  lard,  1  egg,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  ^  teaspoon 
salt,  a  little  nutmeg.  Mix  into  a  soft  dough.  Flour  board 
well ;  roll  out  dough  to  the  thickness  of  one-half  inch,  cut  and 
fry  a  light  brown  in  plenty  of  hot  lard.  Sift  powdered  sugar 
over. — Mrs.  Carrie  Smith. 

Snow  Ball  Doughnuts. 

One  cup  sugar,  creamed  with  4  level  teaspoons  of  melted 
butter.  Add  2  well  beaten  eggs,  1  cup  sweet  milk,  1  teaspoon 
grated  nutmeg,  flour  to  admit  handling,  and  2  rounded  tea- 
spoons baking  powder,  sifted  well  with  flour.  Roll  to  1  inch 
thick,  fry  in  lard  a  gold  brown.  Makes  3  dozen. — Mrs.  G. 
Massman. 

Buttermilk  Doughnuts. 

One  cup  sugar  (heaping)  ^  teaspoon  salt,  1  tablespoon 
melted  butter,  3  eggs,  nutmeg  (enough  to  flavor),  1  teaspoon- 
ful of  baking  soda  dissolved  in  1  cup  butter  milk.     Add  enough 


PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK  79 


flour  to  be  able  to  roll.  (Do  not  get  it  too  stiff.)  Roll  about 
i  inch  thick,  cut  and  fry  in  deep  hot  fat.  Dust  with  powdered 
sugar. — Clara  L.  Kemnitz. 

Potato  Doughnuts. 

One  cup  mashed  potatoes,  1  cup  sugar,  3  eggs,  1  scant  table- 
spoon butter,  1  teaspoon  vanilla,  1  teaspoon  lemon  extract,  ^ 
teaspoon  salt,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  1  cup  milk,  and 
flour  to  make  a  soft  dough. — Mrs.  R.  J.  Frank. 

Bread  Crumb  Pancakes. 

One  pint  sour  milk,  1  cup  bread  crumbs,  2  eggs  beaten, 
1  tablespoon  sugar,  little  salt,  and  flour  enough  to  make  the 
dough  not  too  stiff.  Just  before  baking  add  a  scant  teaspoon 
soda  dissolved  in  a  little  hot  water. — Marie  Doederlein. 

Cornmeal  Pancakes. 
Two  beaten  eggs  and  beat  into  them  a  little  sugar  and  a 
pinch  of  salt,  add  2  cups  milk,  IJ  cups  flour  and  IJ  cups  corn- 
meal  and  3  teaspoons  baking  powder.  Sift  the  dry  ingredients 
well  together.  These  are  light  and  spongy. — Mrs.  H.  W. 
Bruedigam. 

Egg  Pancake. 

Four  eggs  well  beaten,  1^  cups  flour,  1  pint  milk,  dessert 
spoon  salt.  Butter  must  be  perfectly  smooth  like  a  heavy 
cream.  Just  before  turning  place  a  tiny  bit  of  fat  in  center 
of  pancake.  Makes  about  6  large  pancakes. — Mrs.  J.  Semm- 
low. 

Potato  Pancakes. 

Peel  and  grate  soniic  raw  potatoes,  put  in  a  coarse  cloth 
and  squeeze  out  as  much  of  the  water  as  possible.  To  one 
pint  of  the  dry  potatoes  add  4  eggs,  well  beaten,  4  tablespoons 
of  thick,  sour  cream'  ^  teaspoon  salt,  and  2  tablespoons  flour. 
Have  half  an  inch  of  fat  in  frying  pan  and  when  smoking 
hot  drop  a  spoonful  of  the  mixture.  When  brown  on  one 
side  turn  and  brown  quickly  on  the  other,  and  serve  at  once. — 
Mrs.  R.  Albrecht. 


80  PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK 

Potato  Pancakes. 

Grate  10  good  sized  potatoes  into  a  pan  with  cold  water. 
When  all  are  grated  drain  in  a  fine  sieve  or  lay  a  piece  of 
cheesecloth  on  a  colander  and  press  out  all  the  water.  To  the 
pulp  add  4  eggs  and  1  teaspoon  salt.  Have  the  griddle  very 
hot  and  well  greased.  Put  in  2  tablespoons  of  batter  and 
spread  out  into  a  flat  cake.  Bake  to  a  crisp  brown  on  both 
sides.  Do  not  use  the  least  bit  of  flour  or  they  will  be  spoiled. 
—Mrs.  O.  A.  Skibbe. 

Strawberry  Pancakes. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  2  eggs  and  add  a  batter  made  of  1  cup 
flour,  into  which  has  been  stirred  1  teaspoon  baking  powder,  a 
large  pinch  salt,  1  cup  milk  and  1  teaspoon  butter,  melted. 
Beat  all  together,  add  1  cup  strawberries  cut  in  halves  and 
dredged  with  flour.  Just  before  beginning  to  bake  cakes  fold 
in  the  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites.  Bake  on  a  well  greased  grid- 
dle and  serv^e  with  butter  and  powdered  sugar. — Mrs.  F. 
Schoenwolf. 

Waffles. 

Beat  3  eggs  well ;  mix  thoroughly  1  quart  flour  with  3  tea- 
spoons baking  powder,  add  |  cup  butter  to  this ;  add  the  eggs 
and  enough  milk  to  make  a  thin  batter  which  w^ill  pour  easily. 
— Miss  L.  Gansz. 

Waffles. 

One  pint  of  sour  milk  3  tablespoons  melted  butter,  3  eggs 
beaten  separately,  1  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  a  little  warm 
water;  add  a  little  salt  and  stir  in  enough  flour  to  make  a  stiff 
batter.     Bake  upon  waft'le  irons. — Mrs.  Albrecht. 


PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK  '  81 

Baking  Pow^der  Breads  and 
Goffee-cakes 

Baking  Powder  Biscuits. 

Four  cups  flour,  1  teaspoon  salt,  4  teaspoons  baking  pow- 
der, 1  tablespoon  each  of  butter  and  lard,  2  cups  milk.  Sift  the 
dry  ingredients ;  cut  and  rub  the  butter  and  lard  into  the 
mixture ;  add  milk  gradually.  Turn  on  well  floured  board,  roll 
lightly  to  1  inch  thick,  cut  with  biscuit  cutter  and  bake  in  a 
hot  oven  from  15  to  20  minutes. — Mrs.  Graser. 

Bran  Bread. 
Two  cups  bran,  1  cup  white  flour,  IJ  cups  buttermilk,  |  cup 
sugar,  1  teaspoon  salt,  1  heaping  teaspoon  soda,  1  heaping  tea- 
spoon baking  powder.  Mix  bran,  flour,  sugar,  salt  and  baking 
powder  together  well.  Add  soda  to  buttermilk  and  then  to 
mixture.  Place  in  greased  pans.  Let  rise  ^  hour  and  bake 
1  hour.     This  makes  2  loaves. — Mrs.  R.  Shotts. 

Brown  Bread. 

Two  and  one-half  cups  of  sour  milk,  f  cups  of  molasses,  1 
teaspoon  salt,  2  teaspoons  soda  in  1  cup  white  flour,  2  cups 
bran,  2  cups  graham  flour.  If  you  haven't  both,  4  cups  of 
either  kind  of  flour  will  do  and  1  cup  raisins.  Bake  about  an 
hour  in  covered  tins.  I  use  baking  powder  cans  and  only  fill 
them  half  full.     They  raise  so  much. — Mrs.  G.  H.  Rausch. 

Brown  Bread. 

One  cup  brown  sugar  1  teaspoon  butter,  1  Qgg,  1  teaspoon 
salt,  1  teaspoon  soda,  1  quart  graham  flour,  enough  sour  milk 
to  make  a  rather  stiff  batter.  Bake  slowly  from  |  to  1  hour. 
— Mrs.  H.  Tischer. 

Boston  Brown  Bread. 

One  cup  yellow  meal,  |  cup  rye  meal,  |  cup  graham  flour, 
^  cup  wheat  flour,  1  cup  milk,  ^  cup  molasses,  J  teaspoon 
salt.     Mix  well  together,  pour  into  greased  brown  bread  mould. 


82  '  PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK 

Steam  3  hours;  dry  off  10  minutes  in  oven.  If  sour  milk  is 
used,  use  1  teaspoon  soda  in  milk.  If  sweet  milk  is  used  add 
IJ  teaspoons  baking  powder. — Mrs.  H.  Kaeppel. 

Cinnamon  Rolls. 

Two  cups  flour,  4  teaspoons  baking  powder,  4  tablespoons 
butterine,  |  cup  milk,  pinch  of  salt,  |  cup  sugar.  Cut  butter- 
ine  into  the  dry  ingredients  and  add  milk,  a  little  at  a  time. 
Roll  the  dough  out  to  about  ^  inch  and  spread  2  tablespoons 
melted  butter  over.  Sprinkle  2  tablespoons  sugar  and  1  tea- 
spoon, cinnamon  with  ^  cup  of  raisins  over  top.  Roll  up  in 
jelly  roll  fashion  and  cut  into  1  inch  pieces.  Place  close  to- 
gether in  greased  tin  and  bake  15  to  20  minutes  in  moderate 
oven. — Mrs.  E.  J.  Keuer. 

Apple  Coffee  Cake. 
One  large  cup  flour,  or  IJ  cups,  2  teaspoons  baking  pow- 
der, J  teaspoon  salt,  i  cup  sugar,  3  tablespoons  shortening, 
lard  and  butter.  Put  1  tgg  in  cup,  beat,  and  fill  with  milk. 
Mix  all  well  together.  Flour  hands  and  spread  in  baking  pan ; 
cover  top  with  apples  and  sugar  and  little  cinnamon ;  put  bits 
of  butter  on  if  you  like.  Bake  about  20  minutes.  This  is 
very  good. — Mrs.  Klipp. 

Coffee  Cake. 
One-half  cup  butter,  1  cup  sugar,  1  cup  milk,  2  eggs,  2  cups 
flour,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  put  in  coffee  cake  tins,  then 
strew  over  the  top,  well  mixed,  i  cup  grated  bread-crumbs, 
i  cup  sugar,  1  teaspoon  cinnamon,  over  this  put  }  cup 
melted  butter. — Mrs.  W.  H.  Bruedigam. 

O*  Ma  Kuehl's  Tea  Cake. 
Twelve  eggs  beaten,  2  cups  flour,  4  cups  milk,  1  teaspoon 
sugar,  i  teaspoon  salt.     Grease  bread  tins,  fill  IJ  inch.     Bake 
in  quick  oven,  will  raise  to  top  of  pan,  when  done  spread  butter 
and  sugar  on  top  and  serve  at  once. — Mrs.  Semmlow. 


PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK  83 


Crumb  Cake. 
Two  cups  flour,  1^  cups  sugar,  |  cup  butter,  2  teaspoons 
baking  powder.  Mix  with  the  hands  until  flakey  then  set 
aside  ^  cup  of  this  mixture.  Yolks  of  2  eggs  well  beaten, 
mix  with  f  cups  milk ;  add  this  to  the  first  mixture,  then  add 
the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  eggs,  1  teaspoon  vanilla.  Mix  well 
and  put  in  tins ;  add  1  teaspoon  cinnamon  to  the  |  cup  crumbs ; 
spread  on  top  of  cake.  Bake  in  slow  oven  about  30  minutes. — 
Mrs.  H.  Schoenw^olf. 

Delicious  Corn  Bread. 

Two  cups  cornmeal,  1  quart  milk,  4  eggs,  1  tablespoon 
melted  butter,  1  teaspoon  salt,  1  teaspoon  sugar.  Beat  the 
eggs  thoroughly,  add  the  meal,  butter,  salt  and  sugar  and 
when  well  mixed,  the  milk  which  has  been  put  over  the  fire 
to  scald.  Pour  into  a  buttered  pan  and  put  at  once  -into  the 
oven.  The  batter  is  very  thin  but  needs  no  more  meal  as  the 
eggs  will  stiffen  sufficiently. — Mrs.  Albrecht. 

Cream  Cornmeal  Puffs. 

Mix  well  together  H  cups  cornmeal,  IJ  cups  flour,  2  table- 
spoons sugar  and  1  teaspoon  salt.  Beat  the  yolks  of  2  eggs, 
add  H  cups  cream  and  ^  cup  milk  and  stir  into  the  dry 
mixture.  Beat  well,  stir  in  the  stiftly  whipped  whites  of  the 
eggs  and  2  teaspoons  baking  powder  and  bake  in  well  greased 
gem  pans  in  a  hot  oven. — Mrs.  Albrecht. 

Cornmeal  Muffins. 
One-half  cup  butter,  |  cup  sugar,  1  cup  milk,  2  eggs,  pinch 
of  salt,  1  cup  of  cornmeal  (w^hite),  1  cup  flour.  Add  little  more 
flour  to  batter,  not  too  stiff,  like  cake  batter.  One  and  one- 
half  heaping  teaspoons  baking  pow^der.  Bake  in  buttered  gem 
pans  in  moderate  oven. — Mrs.  H.  G.  Thoms. 

Gingerbread. 

One  cup  molasses,  |  cup  sugar,  1  cup  sour  cream  (sour 
milk  will  do),  1  tgg,  2^  cups  flour,  1  teaspoon  ginger,  ^  tea- 
spoon nutmeg,  1  rounding  teaspoon  soda. — Josephine  O'- 
Rourkc. 


84  PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK 

Gingerbread. 
One  cup  sour  milk,  1  cup  shortening,  1  cup  molasses,  2 
eggs,  li  cups  sugar,  4  cups  flour,  2  teaspoons  soda,  2  tea- 
spoons cinnamon,  ^  teaspoon  cloves,  1  tablespoon  ginger. 
Bake  slowly  in  dripping  pan  at  least  40  minutes.  Add  no  more 
flour. — Mrs.  Edw.  H.  Pierce. 

Graham  Bread. 

Two  cups  sour  milk,  2  eggs,  |  cup  molasses,  2  level  tea- 
spoons soda,  pinch  salt,  1  cup  white  flour  and  enough  graham 
to  make  a  stiflf  batter.  Small  teaspoon  baking  powder  in  the 
white  flour.     Bake  1  hour. — Mrs.  E.  Pierce. 

Graham  Nut  Bread. 

Two  cups  white  flour  2  cups  graham  flour,  4  teaspoons 
baking  powder,  1  teaspoon  salt,  1  cup  sugar.  Sift  together 
and  add  2  eggs,  2  cups  milk,  1  cup  walnuts  (cut  not  too  fine, 
rather  medium).  Beat  well  and  put  in  buttered  pans.  Let 
raise  20  minutes  and  bake  in  moderate  oven. — Mrs.  H.  Berger. 

Kugelhupf. 
Three  eggs,  1  scant  cup  sugar,  1  large  tablespoon  butter, 
1  scant  cup  currants  (floured),  3  cups  of  flour,  1  teaspoon 
salt,  1^  cups  of  milk,  2  heaping  teaspoon  of  baking  powder. 
Put  into  form  pan.  Bake  f  hour,  in  moderate  oven. — Mrs.  R. 
Baur. 

Tea  Muffins. 
Work  butter  size  of  an  egg  into  2  cups  flour,  add  J  teaspoon 
salt,  2  tablespoon  sugar,  2  even  teaspoons  baking  powder  and 
stir  together  thoroughly.  Beat  1  tgg,  add  to  it  1  cup  of  milk, 
mix  it  with  the  flour  quickly,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven. — Mrs. 
R.  Baur. 

Twin  Mountain  Muffins. 

Cream  ^  cup  butter,  add  gradually  J  cup  sugar  and  I 
teaspoon  salt;  add  1  egg  beaten  light,  f  cup  milk,  2  cups 
sifted  flour  and  4  level  teaspoons  baking  powder.  Bake  in  hot 
buttered  gem  pans  about  20  minutes. — ^larie  Doederlein. 


PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK  85 


Nut  Bread. 

One  cup  brown  sugar,  2  cups  sweet  milk,  1  cup  chopped 
nuts,  4  cups  flour,  1  teaspoon  salt,  4  teaspoons  baking  powder, 
2  eggs.  Mix  and  let  stand  in  pans  20  minutes,  then  bake  1 
hour  in  slow  oven. — Mrs.  Wm.  Fredericks. 

Nut  Bread. 

One  cup  chopped  walnuts  or  hickory  nuts,  4  cups  flour 
mixed  with  4  teaspoons  baking  powder,  1  tablespoon  salt,  2 
tablespoons  sugar,  2  cups  milk,  1  egg  beaten  light.  Let  rise  1 
hour.     Bake  in  1  loaf  for  1  hour. — Mrs.  O.  Kleppisch. 

Whole  Wheat  Nut  Bread. 
One  egg,  J  cup  sugar,  ^  teaspoon  salt,  IJ  cups  sweet 
milk,  1  cup  chopped  walnuts,  2  cups  whole  wheat  flour,  IJ 
cups  white  flour,  and  3  teaspoons  baking  powder.  Mix  and 
allow  to  rise  20  minutes,  then  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  45 
minutes. — Mrs.  A.  J.  Koehneke. 

Pop-Overs. 

Two  eggs,  1  cup  flour,  1  cup  milk,  1  level  teaspoc«i  salt. 
Beat  hard,  and  bake  35  minutes  in  moderate  oven. — Helen 
Lindau. 

Chinese  Cook's  Recipe  for  Pop-Overs. 

You  takee  him  1  egg,  1  lit  cup  milk,  you  fixee  him  1  cup 
flou'  on  sieve,  take  pinch  salt ;  you  not  put  him  in  lump.  You 
move  him  egg  lit  bit  slow,  you  put  him  milk  in,  all  time  move ; 
you  makee  him  flou'  go  in,  not  move  fast  so  have  no  spots. 
Make  but'led  pan  all  same  wa'm  not  too  hot.  Put  lee  him  in 
oven.  Now  you  mind  you  business.  No  likee  woman  run  look 
at  him,  all  time.     Him  done  all  sanie  time  biscuit. — Sing  Lee. 

Blueberry  Shortcake. 

Make  a  baking  powder  coffee  cake  dough.  Place  in  a  long 
pan  bringing  dough  up  on  sides  of  pan.  Mix  1  egg  beaten 
light,  ^  cup  milk,  sugar  to  taste  with  1  quart  of  blue  or  huckle- 
berries. Pour  mixture  on  dough.  Quick  oven. — Mrs.  J.  Semm- 
low. 


86  PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK 

Sauce  for  Orange  Shortcake. 

Peel  oranges,  remove  white  skin  and  sHce  as  thin  as  pos- 
sible. Putsible.  Put  1  cup  sugar,  J  cup  water  and  orange 
juice  in  a  saucepan  and  let  boil  a  little.  Pour  this  syrup  over 
a  well  beaten  egg ;  beat  as  for  cake  frosting.  Cover  cake  with 
sliced  oranges  and  pour  sauce  over. — Mrs.  Semmlow. 


Yeast  Breads 

Graham  Bread. 

Four  cups  graham  flour,  3^  cups  flour,  2  tablespoons 
molasses,  3  cups  lukewarm  milk,  1  cake  yeast,  1  heaping  tea- 
spoon salt,  2  tablespoons  brown  sugar,  |  teaspoon  soda,  2 
tablespoons  butter,  ^  cup  lukewarm  water.  Sift  together  the 
graham  flour,  wheat  flour,  brown  sugar  and  salt,  then  rub  in 
the  butter.  Add  the  molasses  with  the  soda  dissolved  in  it. 
Next  add  the  lukewarm  milk  and  lastly  the  yeast  dissolved  in 
the  lukewarm  water.  Knead  the  dough  well  for  20  minutes 
and  set  it  to  rise  covered  up.  After  rising  form  it  into  two 
loaves,  put  them  into  pans  and  let  them  rise  again.  Graham 
bread  requires  longer  to  rise  than  white  flour  bread.  Bake  in 
a  moderately  hot  oven  for  an  hour  and  a  quarter.  If  graham 
bread  is  baked  too  quickly  it  is  apt  to  become  doughy  in  the 
center.  The  above  makes  two  loaves  of  bread. — Mrs.  Ehlen- 
feld. 

Quaker  Oats  Bread. 

Two  cups  quaker  oats,  5  cups  flour,  2  cups  boiling  water, 
1  cake  yeast,  ^  cup  molasses,  i  tablespoon  butter,  small  hand- 
ful salt.  Add  boiling  water  to  oats  and  allow  to  stand  one 
hour.  Add  molasses,  salt,  butter,  dissolved  yeast  and  flour ; 
let  rise  until  double  in  bulk,  beat  thoroughly,  turn  into  but- 
tered pans,  let  rise  again.  Bake  one  hour  in  two  loaves. — Mrs. 
O.  Kleppisch. 

Swedish  Rye  Bread. 
Heat  1  pint  milk  and  1  pint  water  to  boiling  point,  add  1 
tablespoon  lard,   1   tablespoon  butter,  |  cup  brown  sugar,  ^ 


PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK  87 

cup  corn  syrup,  1  tablespoon  salt,  1  tablespoon  caraway  seed, 

1  tablespoon  anise  seed.  Beat  in  2  quarts  rye  flour  (beat 
hard).  Dissolve  1|  cake  yeast  in  a  little  warm  water  and  add 
to  above  when  luke  warm,  add  enough  white  flour  so  you  can 
knead,  about  20  minutes.  Let  rise  and  knead  again.  Shape 
into  loaves  and  brush  top  with  egg  white  or  butter.  Bake 
in  hot  oven  for  15  minutes,  then  decrease  heat  and  bake  until 
done. — Mrs.  P.  Weissbrodt. 

White  Bread. 
Put  1  quart  lukewarm  milk  or  water  in  bread  miixer,  add  2 
teaspoons  salt,  2  tablespoons  sugar,  2  tablespoons  shortening, 

2  cents  worth  of  yeast  which  has  been  dissolved  in  J  cup  luke- 
warm water,  and  3  quarts  flour.  Turn  bread  mixer  about  5 
minutes,  let  rise  over  night  and  form  in  loaves  in  the  morning, 
when  raised  again  bake  45  minutes.  Have  oven  hot  for  10 
minutes,  then  turn  gas  down  to  medium. — Olga  T.  Bohnsack. 

Nut  Bread. 

One-half  cup  water,  1^  cups  milk,  1  yeast  cake  softened  in 
I  cup  water,  4  tablespoons  molasses,  1  teaspoon  salt,  i  pound 
filbert  meats,  4  cups  entire  wheat  flour,  2  cups  sifted  white 
flour.  Add  the  softened  yeast  cake  to  lukewarm  milk  and 
water,  molasses,  salt  and  nuts,  and  stir  in  the  flour.  A  little 
more  flour  may  be  required.  Knead  the  dough  until  elastic, 
then  set  to  rise.  When  light,  shape  in  loaves  and  when  again 
light  bake  about  1  hour. — Olga  T.  Bohnsack. 

French  Rolls. 

Scald  1  pint  of  rmilk,  dissolve  in  it  1  tablespoon  butter,  1 
teaspoon  sugar  and  ^  teaspoon  salt ;  when  lukewarm  add  i 
of  a  yeast  cake  dissolved  in  2  tablespoons  of  warm  water  and 
sufficient  sifted  bread  flour  to  make  a  batter.  Beat  until 
smooth  and  set  aside,  covered  in  a  warm  place  until  light.  Add 
more  flour  to  make  a  soft  dough,  turn  out  on  the  board  and 
knead  until  smooth  and  springy  to  the  touch.  Return  to  the 
bowl,  cover  and  set  away  again  until  light.  Take  out  portions 
of  the  dough  about  the  size  of  a  large  egg  and  roll  each  out 


88  PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK 


until  as  thick  as  the  middle  finger,  then  form  into  crescents 
or  other,  desired  shapes ;  or  all  the  dough  may  be  turned  out 
carefully  on  the  board  and  rolled  out  an  inch  thick,  then  cut 
with  cutters  of  various  shapes.  Lay  an  inch  apart  on  greased 
pans,  brush  the  top  of  each  roll  with  milk  and  when  light  bake 
in  a  very  hot  oven. — Mrs.  Albrecht. 

Parker  House  Rolls. 

Two  cups  scalded  milk,  i  cup  lukewarm  water,  1  cake 
yeast,  J  cup  melted  butter,  1  teaspoon  salt,  2  tablespoons 
sugar.  Mix  yeast  with  water;  when  milk  is  lukewarm  add 
the  yeast ;  to  it  add  enough  flour  to  make  a  thin  batter ;  let  rise 
until  light ;  add  sugar,  salt,  melted  butter,  flour  enough  to  make 
a  soft  dough ;  knead  for  20  minutes ;  let  rise  until  doubled  in 
bulk.  Roll  out  I  inch  thick,  cut  with  a  biscuit  cutter;  press 
the  handle  of  a  wooden  spoon  across  the  center  of  each,  mak- 
ing a  crease,  butter  i  slightly;  fold  the  other  half  over  on  it; 
set  in  a  pan  some  distance  apart ;  let  rise  until  light  and  bake 
from  18  to  20  minutes. — Miss  Clara  Wollerman. 

Tea  Biscuits. 

One  cup  scalded  milk,  1  tablespoon  sugar,  2  tablespoons 
shortening,  ^  teaspoon  salt,  1  yeast  cake  dissolved  in  ^  cup 
water,  4  cups  flour.  ,Put  the  sugar,  salt,  and  shortening  in  a 
mixing  bowl ;  add  scalded  milk,  when  lukewarm ;  add  yeast 
cake  and  3  cups  flour  slowly.  Beat  to  a  light  batter.  Let 
rise  to  double  its  bulk,  then  add  1  cup  flour;  let  rise  again. 
Shape  in  biscuits  form ;  let  rise  till  light  and  bake  in  quick 
oven  25  minutes. — Mrs.   Sodemann. 

Cinnamon  Buns. 

Scald  1  pint  of  milk,  dissolve  in  it  1  scant  teaspoon  salt,  1 
tablespoon  butter  and  2  tablespoons  sugar.  When  cool  add 
J  of  a  cake  of  yeast,  dissolved  in  a  little  warm  water,  and  suf- 
ficient flour  to  make  a  drop  batter.  Cover  and  set  aside  until 
light,  add  flour  to  make  a  soft  dough  and  knead  for  5  min- 
utes. Return  to  the  bowl,  cover  and  set  aside  as  before. 
When  light  turn  out  carefully  on  the  well  floured  board  and 


PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK  89 


roll  out  i  of  an  inch  thick.  Spread  with  softened  butter, 
sprinkle  with  granulated  sugar,  cleaned  currants  and  a  little 
powdered  cinnamon.  Roll  up  tightly  and  cut  in  2-inch  slices. 
Put  close  together  in  well  greased  pans  and  when  light  bake 
in  a  moderate  oven  from  40  to  50  minutes.  Turn  out  as 
soon  as  taken  from  the  oven  or  they  will  stick.  The  ex- 
cellence of  these  buns  depends  upon  the  amount  of  butter 
and  sugar  used  when  spread,  the  more  the  better. — Mrs. 
Albrecht. 

Coffee  Cake. 

One  quart  flour,  1  pint  milk,  ^  cup  butter  and  lard,  J  cup 
sugar,  2  eggs,  1  cent  yeast,  salt.  Add  little  salt  to  flour,  dis- 
solve yeast  in  a  little  of  the  milk  slightly  warmed,  heat  re- 
mainder of  milk  slightly,  adding  butter  and  lard.  Mix  milk, 
butter,  lard  with  flour ;  add  eggs  and  sugar  and  beat.  Let  rise 
until  light.  Put  in  pans,  spread  with  melted  butter,  sugar  and 
cinnamon.     Let  rise  again  and  bake. — Mrs.  L.  C.  Koebel. 

Form  Cake  or  Kugelhupf. 

Three  cups  flour,  1  cup  milk,  §  cup  sugar,  ^  pound  butter, 
7  eggs,  2  cents  yeast,  ^  teaspoon  salt,  J  lemon  peel  (grated) 
Stir  ^  of  the  flour  with  the  yeast  and  milk.  Cream  the 
butter  and  add  alternately  eggs  and  flour.  Also  sugar,  lemon 
and  salt.  Then  stir  the  first  part  to  it  thoroughly,  place  in  a 
buttered  form  and  allow  to  rise.  Bake  1  hour  in  a  moderate 
oven. — Mrs.  C.  B.  Moellering. 

German  Napfkuchen. 

Three  and  one-half  cups  flour  (sifted),  2  cents  yeast,  1  cup 
warm  milk,  |  cup  granulated  sugar,  ^  pound  butter,  5  eggs 
(w^hen  eggs  are  cheaper  take  7  and  use  less  milk),  1  cup 
blanched  and  finely  ground  almonds,  1  cup  seedless  raisins,  1 
pinch  mace,  |  lemon  rind  (grated),  J  juice  of  lemon.  Set 
sponge  with  the  milk,  yeast  and  IJ  cups  flour.  When  light, 
cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  add  the  well  beaten  eggs  with 
yolks  and  mix  gradually  with  the  risen  sponge,  which  has  been 
beaten  until  bubbles  appear  (about  20  minutes).     Pour  in  a 


90  PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK 


well  greased  spring  tube  form  and  set  to  rise  till  about  one 
inch  from  top  of  for^ii.  Bake  in  mioderate  oven  about  1  hour. 
—Mrs.  H.  G.  Thorns. 

Stollen. 

Heat  1  quart  of  milk,  IJ  cup  sugar  and  IJ  cup  butter. 
When  this  is  cool,  add  3  quarts  flour,  1  teaspoon  salt.  2  cakes 
yeast,  3  beaten  eggs,  10  cents  worth  of  citron (  cut  fine),  1 
pound  light  seedless  raisins,  1  pound  grated  almonds,  juice  of 
i  lemon  and  the  rind  of  1  lemon.  Let  this  rise  as  you  would 
bread,  put  in  4  bread  pans,  making  in  loaf  forms,  and  when 
in  pans  let  it  rise  again.  Bake  J  hour.  Frost  as  you  would 
angel  cake. — Mrs.  Albrecht. 

Stollen  or  Raisin  Bread. 

Four  pounds  flour,  1  quart  milk,  4  eggs,  2^  ounces  yeast, 
IJ  pounds  butter,  1  pound  Sultana  raisins,  IJ  pounds  sugar, 
^  pound  chopped  almonds,  6  ounces  citron  (chopped).  In 
the  morning  make  a  sponge  from  part  of  the  flour,  add  the 
lukewarm  milk,  beaten  eggs,  yeast  and  salt.  Set  in  warm  place 
to  rise.  It  will  rise  very  quickly.  Then  add  softened  butter, 
raisins,  sugar,  almonds,  citron  (flour  the  almonds,  raisins  and 
citron),  and  the  balance  of  flour.  Grate  a  little  lemon  rind  into 
dough.  Now  let  rise  again,  then  mould  into  loaves  and  raise 
once  more,  when  they  are  ready  for  the  oven.  Spread  melted 
butter  before  putting  in  oven,  and  bake  slowly  for  1  hour  or 
longer.  Have  every  ingredient  warm  before  you  begin  mixing. 
— Marie  Doederlein. 


Cookies 

Anise  Seed  Cookies. 
Rub  to  a  cream  |  cup  butter  and  1  cup  powdered  sugar. 
When  light,  stir  in  the  well  beaten  yolks  of  3  eggs  then  add  the 
stiffened  whites  alternately  with  a  pound  of  flour  or  enough 
to  make  a  stiff  dough,  first  stirring  into  the  flour  1  teaspoonful 
of  anise  seed.  Roll  thin,  cut  into  rounds  and  bake. — Mrs. 
Chas.  Hemler. 


PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK  91 

Bread  Crumb  Cookies. 

One  cup  granulated  sugar,  ^  cup  shortening  butter  or  lard, 

1  tgg,  1  level  teaspoon  baking  soda  mixed  in  ^  cup  sour  milk 
or  I  cup  hot  water,  H  cup  bread  crumbs,  1^  cup  flour,  ^  tea- 
spoon salt,  2  teaspoon  cinnamon,  ^  teaspoon  baking  powder. 
Drop  cookies  in  pan  and  bake  brown. — Mrs.  F.  C.  Kraemer. 

Brown  Cookies. 

One  cup  white  sugar,  1  cup  lard  or  butter,  1  egg,  a  half 
teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  a  little  black  coffee,  I  teaspoon 
cloves,  J  teaspoon  allspice,  1  teaspoon  cinnamon,  a  teaspoon 
full  of  ginger  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Mix  in  flour  to  handle  well, 
shape  in  the  hand  and  put  a  nut  in  the  top  of  each  cake. — Mrs. 
F.  C.  Kramer. 

Chinese  Cookies. 

Two  cups  pastry  flour,  J  cup  butter,  J  cup  lard,  2  cups 
brown  sugar,  |  teaspoon  soda,  1  teaspoon  vanilla  and  2  tea- 
spoons cold  water.  Mix  well  and  form  into  little  balls  about 
the  size  of  a  nutmeg.  Place  about  4  inches  apart  in  an  unbut- 
tered  pan  and  bake  about  20  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 
When  done  let  stand  in  a  pan  about  5  minutes,  then  remove 
carefully. — Mrs.  Albrecht. 

Filled  Cookies. 

One  cup  brown  sugar  1  cup  white  sugar,  1^  cups  shorten- 
ing (part  lard  and  part  butter)  3  eggs  beaten,  1  teaspoon 
soda  dissolved  in  scant  J  cup  hot  water,  2  cups  flour,  6  cups 
oatmeal.     Put  oatmeal  through  food  chopper. 

Filling. — One  package  raisins,  1  package  dates,  put  through 
food  chopper,  add  1  cup  sugar,  enough  hot  water  to  make  soft, 
add  1^  teaspoons  vanilla;  roll  the  cookies,  cut  and  place  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  the  filling  on  cookie  then  place  another  cake  on 
top.  Press  the  edges  well  together  and  bake. — Mrs.  H.  W. 
Bruedigam. 

Filled  Fig  Cookies. 

One  cup  sugar,  |  cup  lard,  i  cup  milk,  2  cups  flour,  1  egg, 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 


92  PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK 

Filling. — Boil  until  thick  2J  cups  chopped  figs  or  raisins,  2 
cups  sugar,  1^  cups  boiling  water,  3  tablespoons  flour.  Roll 
out  dough  as  thin  as  possible,  then  place  a  layer  of  dough 
in  a  greased  pan,  spread  filling  on  dough  and  cover  with 
another  layer  of  dough.  When  baked  cut  into  squares. — Mrs. 
O.  Braun. 

Honey  Drop  Cookies.  , 

One-half  cup  butter  J  cup   sugar,   1   cup  honey,  2  eggs, 

1  lemon  (rind  and  juic^"),  3  cups  flower,  1  teaspoon  soda.  Drop 
dough  by  teaspoons  'uttered  tins  and  bake  in  moderate 
oven. — Mrs.  W.  C.  B  ir     hs. 

Cookies. 

Two  cups  sugar,  f  cup  butter,  2  eggs,  IJ  teaspoons  nut- 
meg, 1  teaspoon  lemon  extract,  ^  cup  rich  milk,  3  heaping 
cups  flour  with  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  mixed.  Mix  all 
well  together  with  spoon,  adding  a  little  more  flour,  if  needed, 
when  rolling  out.  Roll  out  thin.  This  makes  about  6  to  7 
dozen.     Bake  in  hot  oven. — Mrs.  Klipp. 

Plain  Cookies. 
Three   eggs,   3   cups   flour,   1^   cups   sugar,   1    cup   butter, 

2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  6  tablespoons  milk,  nutmeg.  Roll 
thin.     Bake  quickly. — Mrs.  John  C.  Koebel. 

-5 

Sugar  Cookies. 

One  and  one-half  cups  sugar  mixed  with  1  rounding  cup 

(hard)  lard,  2  eggs,  1  cup  buttermilk,  1  level  teaspoon  soda 

"stirred   in   the  buttermilk,   1   level  teaspoon   baking  powder. 

Flavor  with  nutmeg.     Enough  flour  to  make  a  soft  dough. 

Bake  in  a  hot  oven. — Mrs.  Rausch. 

Sugar  Cookies. 

One  pound  flour,  |  pound  butter,  |  pound  sugar,  3  eggs. 
Work  flour  and  butter  together  thoroughly  in  mixing  bowl, 
flavor  with  a  little  cinnamon  or  the  rind  of  a  lemon,  add  sugar 
and  eggs ;  mix  well,  and  knead  into  the  shape  of  pretzels. — 
Mrs.  D.  Wagner. 


PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK  93 


White  Cookies. 

Two  cups  sugar,  1  cup  butter,  1  cup  sour  cream,  2  eggs, 
pinch  salt,  1  teaspoon  saleratus ;  mix  with  cream ;  flavor  to 
taste.  Use  enough  flour  to  make  soft  dough,  roll,  and  cut 
into  cookies. — Mrs.  Albrecht. 

Wine  Cookies. 

One-half  pound  butter,  1  pound  sugar,  3  eggs,  rind  of  1 
lemon,  3  teaspoons  of  rose  water,  1  glass  ""yine,  2  teaspoons 
baking  powder  and  flour  enough  to  roll.-  "'   rs.  H.  W.  Bruedi- 

gam. 

Jill 

Nut  Cookies 

Almond  Cookies. 

One  pound  shortening  (lard  or  butter),  IJ  pounds  sugar, 
3  eggs  beaten,  juice  of  ^  lemon,  ^  pound  almonds  chopped 
fine,  i  cup  milk  (large),  2  pounds  flour,  2  teaspoons  baking 
powder.  Mix  to  a  stiff  dough  and  let  stand  over  night,  but  do 
not  allow  it  to  get  too  cold.  In  the  morning  roll  out  thin  and 
bake.     Mrs.  W.  C.  Westphal. 

Small  Almond  Cookies. 
Two  large  eggs,  ^  pound  white  flour,  ^  pound  granulated 
sugar,  I  pound  chopped  almonds,  2  ounces  butter,  grated  rind 
of  1  lemon.  Cream  the  sugar  and  butter,  then  add  the  eggs, 
a  little  cinnamon  and  almonds,  stir  J  hour,  then  add  flour,  roll 
in  small  balls  and  bake  in  slow  oven, — Mrs.  Tischer. 

Cookies  (Kisselsteine). 

Two  eggs,  -J  pound  butter,  J  pound  sugar,  -J  teaspoon 
potassium  chlorate,  (powdered  chlorate  of  potash)  vanilla,  J 
pound  almonds,  citron,  currants,  1  wineglass  brandy,  flour  to 
roll  in  little  balls ;  roll  in  sugar  and  bake. — Mrs.  H.  Tischer. 

Butter  Cookies. 

One  pound  butter,  1^  pound  sugar,  ^  pint  cream,  3  eggs, 
pinch  of  salt,  ^  pound  almonds  chopped,  ^  teaspoon  baking 
powder,  vanilla,  flour  enough  to  roll  thin. — Mrs.  F.  Nyendorf. 


94  PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK 


Filbert  Cookies. 

Two  pounds  filberts,  grated  (weighed  with  shells),  1  pound 
powdered  sugar,  whites  of  4  eggs ;  stir  sugar  and  eggs  for  20 
minutes,  then  add  nuts,  roll  in  hand  into  small  balls.  Bake 
in  a  slow  oven ;  make  a  frosting  of  powdered  sugar  and  milk 
and  spread  a  little  on  top  when  baked. — Mrs.  Piepho. 

Nut  Drops. 
Four  cups  sugar,  4  eggs,  4  cup  nuts,  2  cups  flour,  drop 
them  with  a  spoon  and  bake  in  slow  oven. — Miss  L.  Gansz. 

Nut  Wafers. 
Cream  'well  together  ^  cup  butter  and  J  cup  powdered 
sugar;  add  1  egg  well  beaten,  J  cup  flour  and  1  cup  finely 
chopped  nuts,  walnuts  or  hickorynuts  preferred.  Drop  small 
spoonfulls  on  buttered  tins  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. — Mrs. 
R.  Albrecht. 

Peanut  Cookies. 

Shell,  remove  skins  and  chop  1  quart  of  peanuts ;  there 
should  be  one  cupful.  Mix  and  sift  2  cups  flour,  ^  teaspoon 
salt  and  J  teaspoon  soda,  and  add  1  cup  brown  sugar,  then 
add  I  cup  melted  shortening,  1  egg  well  beaten,  ^  cup  sour 
milk,  1  teaspoon  vanilla  and  f  of  the  nut  meats.  Drop  from 
tip  of  spoon  on  a  well  buttered  sheet  and  sprinkle  with  re- 
maining nut  meats.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven. — Mrs.  O.  A. 
Skibbe. 

Lizzie's  Hermits. 

One  up  butter,  3  cups  brown  sugar,  4  tablespoons  sweet 
milk,  4  eggs,  2  teaspoons  soda,  2  cups  currants,  1  cup  dates  cut 
fine,  1  cup  nuts,  1  teaspoon  grated  nutmeg,  1  teaspoon  cinna- 
mon, 1  little  grated  orange  peel,  6  cups  flour.  This  makes  a 
large  batch  and  keeps  a  long  time.  Drop  in  buttered  tins  some 
distance  apart. — Mrs.  W.  C.  Hinrichs. 

Rock  Cookies. 

One  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar,   1   cup  butter,  3  eggs,   1 
jg^      pound  of  walnuts  chopped  fine,  |  pound  dates  or  raisins,  cut 


PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK  95 

fine,  1  teaspoon  of  soda  dissolved  in  1  tablespoon  of  warm 
water,  1  teaspoon  cinnamon,  1  teaspoon  cloves,  1  teaspoon 
allspice,  about  2  cups  flour.  Mix  all  together  and  drop  on 
tins. — Mrs.  E.  Koretke. 

Russian  Rock  Cookies. 

One  cup  butter,  1  cup  granulated  sugar,  |  cup  brown  sugar, 
1  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  |  cup  warm  water,  3  eggs,  broken 
in,  one  at  a  time,  1  teaspoon  cinnamon,  1  teaspoon  allspice,  3 
cups  flour,  1  package  dates,  f  pound  shelled  walnuts,  1  pound 
peanuts  and  1  package  raisins  chopped.  Drop  from  teaspoon. 
— Mrs.  F.  Nyendorf. 

Oatmeal  Cookies. 

Melt  J  cup  butter,  work  in  1  cup  sugar,  2  eggs  beaten  light, 
4  tablespoons  milk,  1  level  teaspoon  baking  soda,  a  pinch  of 
salt,  2  cups  flour,  2  cups  oatmeal,  1  cup  raisins  dredged  with 
flour.     Drop  on  greased  tins  and  bake. — Mrs.  William  Schilke. 

Oatmeal  Cookies. 

One  level  cup  brown  sugar,  1  level  cup  shortening,  2  eggs, 
J  cup  milk,  2  level  cups  flour,  ^  level  teaspoon  salt,  2  level 
teaspoons  baking  powder,  1  cup  raisins,  2  cups  raw  rolled  oats. 
Cream  sugar  and  shortening,  add  eggs  (well  beaten),  and  milk. 
Measure  flour  after  sifting,  then  sift  again  with  salt  and  bak- 
ing powder.  Beat  into  ^gg  and  sugar,  add  raisins  (chopped 
fine),  then  the  rolled  oats.  Drop  by  spoonfuls  on  a  cooky 
sheet.     Bake  in  a  hot  oven. — Mrs.  Ehlenfeld. 

Fruit  Cookies. 
Mix  together  1  cup  butter,  2  cups  sugar,  2  cups  currants 
and  chopped  raisins,  2  eggs,  2  tablespoons  cinnamon,  1  tea- 
spoon nutmeg,  1  scant  teaspoon  cloves,  1  teaspoon  baking  soda 
dissolved  in  2  tablespoons  sour  milk,  flour  enough  to  roll  out 
and  cut. 

Christmas  Cookies. 
One-half  pound  butter,  J  pound  lard,  1  pound  brown  sugar, 
1  cup  white  sugar,  ^  pound  citron,  chopped  real  fine,  1  quart 


96  PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK 

molasses,  2  eggs,  1  teaspoon  soda,  i  pound  almonds,  chopped 
fine.     Flour  enough  to  roll. — Mrs.  E.  J.  Keuer. 

Christmas  Cookies  (Leb-Kuchen). 

One  cup  butter,  1  cup  lard,  2  cups  hot  water,  1  pound  brown 
sugar,  1  quart  molasses,  |  pound  citron  (cut  small),  ^  pound 
almonds  (chopped  fine),  2  teaspoons  baking  soda,  1  nutmeg, 
2  teaspoons  cinnamon,  1  teaspoon  ginger,  |  teaspoon  cloves, 
I  teaspoon  allspice,  3|-  sieves  full  of  flour.  Let  this  stand 
from  three  days  to  a  week,  then  roll  and  cut  in  diamond  shape 
with  one-half  almond  in  center. — Mrs.  William  Schilke. 

Pepper  Nuts. 

One  cup  sugar,  2  cups  molasses,  1  cup  buttermilk,  1  cup 
shortening,  1  level  teaspoon  soda,  1  level  teaspoon  ginger,  ^ 
teaspoon  allspice,  ^  scant  teaspoon  black  pepper,  1  level  tea- 
spoon cinnamon,  J  teaspoon  salt,  2  eggs.  Enough  flour  to 
handle. — Mrs.  Rausch. 

Pepper  Nuts. 

Two  pounds  white  sugar,  8  eggs,  1  tablespoon  ground  cin- 
namon, 1  tablespoon  allspice,  1  tablespoon  cloves  (ground), 
nutmeg,  1  ounce  of  citron  cut  fine,  and  ^  pound  almonds 
blanched  and  chopped,  a  pinch  of  soda  dissolved  in  a  little 
hot  water  and  flour  enough  to  make  a  good  stiff  dough.  Roll 
out  and  cut  with  a  small  round  cutter.  This  dough  must  be 
prepared  the  night  before.  Bake  in  a  medium  oven. — Mrs. 
F.  C.  Kramer. 

Pepper  Nuts. 

One-half  pound  butter,  i  pound  lard,  f  pound  brown 
sugar,  f  pound  granulated  sugar,  1  pint  syrup,  J  pound 
almonds,  J  pound  each  of  candied  lemon,  orange  and  citron,  1 
egg,  -J  lemon,  ^  grated  nutmeg,  1  teaspoon  each  of  anise  seed, 
mace,  allspice,  cloves  and  cinnamon,  10  cents  worth  of  carda- 
mon,  1  teaspoon  baking  soda  dissolved  in  2  teaspoons  brandy, 
J  pint  water,  flour  enough  to  roll. — Mrs.  Bertha  Hass. 


PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK  97 


Pepper  Nuts  or  Christmas  Cookies. 

Four  eggs,  2  pounds  light  brown  sugar,  2  cans  Karo  corn 
syrup,  i  cup  molasses,  1  cup  suet,  IJ  cups  lard,  5  cents 
worth  cardamon  seed,  about  the  same  amount  of  anise  seed, 
crushed  salt  to  taste.  Melt  the  lard  and  suet  and  allow  to 
cool  till  it  begins  to  harden ;  do  not  heat  syrup,  mix  all  cold 
as  possible.  Three  teaspoons  baking  powder  and  3  teaspoons 
baking  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water;  add  enough  flour  and 
knead  until  it  does  not  stick  to  the  hands.  Let  stand  over 
night,  roll  out  and  cut;  bake  in  a  hot  oven. — Mrs.  W.  Jacobs. 

Springerlies. 

One  pound  flour,  1  pound  powdered  sugar,  4  eggs;  butter 
size  of  an  Qgg,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder.  Roll  out  thin, 
cut  out  and  let  lay  over  night.  Spread  anise  seed  in  pans 
before  putting  in  cookies  and  bake  very  slowly. — Mrs.  H. 
England. 

Cinnamon  Stars. 

Whites  of  6  eggs,  1  pound  pulverized  sugar,  grated  rind  of 
i  lemon,  ^  teaspoon  ground  cinnamon,  1  pound  almonds 
(grated  with  the  peel  or  put  through  meat  chopper)  ;  beat  the 
w^hites  of  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  the  sugar  and  the  lemon 
rind  and  beat  again  constantly  for  15  minutes.  To  this  mix- 
ture add  the  ground  cinnamon  and  put  aside  -J  of  this 
amount  (to  be  used  later  for  coating).  To  the  quantity  remain- 
ing add  the  grated  almonds.  Roll  out  and  cut  with  cookie  cut- 
ter in  star  shapes.  Place  in  baking  tin  and  spread  each  star 
lightly  with  a  little  of  the  mixture  that  was  put  aside  before. 
The  whole  secret  of  making  a  success  of  these  delicious  cakes 
lies  in  the  baking.  Have  the  oven  quite  cool  in  the  beginning. 
Turn  the  pan  several  times  and  when  the  cookies  appear  a  pale 
white  then  close  the  oven  door  and  turn  on  the  gas  to  permit 
the  cookies  to  bake  to  a  tan  shade. — Marie  Doederlein. 


98  PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK 


Small  Cakes 


Almond  Squares. 

One  cup  sugar,  3  Qgg  yolks,  J  cup  tepid  water,  1  heaping 
cup  flour,  1  scant  teaspoon  baking  powder,  lastly  the  beaten 
whites  of  3  eggs.     When  cool  cut  into  squares. 

Frosting:  Cream  1  cup  butter,  adding  gradually  as  much 
confectionery  sugar  as  it  will  take,  1  tablespoon  cream,  1 
dessert  spoon  vanilla.  Ice  squares  on  all  sides  and  roll  in 
almonds  which  have  been  blanched,  browned  and  grated. — 
Elizabeth  Hass. 

"Brownies." 

Two  eggs,  i  cup  butter,  1  cup  sugar,  2  squares  bitter  choco- 
late (melted),  1  cup  chopped  nuts,  1  cup  flour,  1  teaspoon 
vanilla.  Mix  ingredients  together  and  then  spread  in  buttered 
pans  about  -J  inch  thick.  Bake  about  30  minutes;  (this  will 
fall).     Cut  in  squares. — Mrs.  E.  Perch. 

Cocoanut  Cakes. 

Two  teaspoons  shredded  cocoanut,  2  eggs,  J  cup  butter, 
J  cup  sugar,  1  cup  flour,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder,  and  1 
teaspoon  vanilla  extract.  Beat  the  butter  and  sugar  to  a 
cream ;  add  the  eggs,  well  beaten ;  sift  in  the  flour  and  baking 
powder  and  add  the  cocoanut  and  extract.  Bake  in  muffin 
pans  in  a  moderate  oven  about  15  minutes.  Frost  the  top. — 
Mrs.  Albrecht. 

Cocoanut  Drops. 

One  cup  sugar,  ^  cup  water.  Boil  to  a  thread;  stir  into  2 
Qgg  whites.  Thicken  with  cocoanut.  Flavor.  Put  in  oven 
few  minutes  to  brown. — Mrs.  O.  A.  Skibbe. 

Cocoanut  Macaroons. 

Two  eggs  beaten  separately,  1  cup  sugar,  2  cups  oatmeal,  1 
cup  cocoanut,  i  teaspoon  salt,  1  tablespoon  of  melted  butter, 
flavor  with  vanilla  or  almond.  Bake  like  drop  cakes.^ — Mrs. 
J.  Semmbow. 


PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK  99 

Cup  Cakes. 

Eight  tablespoons  butter  or  lard,  1  cup  sugar,  2  eggs,  1  cup 
sour  milk,  2  cups  flour,  2|  teaspoons  salt,  1  teaspoon  vanilla, 

1  teaspoon  soda,  cream  sugar  and  butter,  add  beaten  egg 
yolks,  then  milk  and  flour.  Fold  in  stiffly  beaten  egg  whites. 
— Mrs.  F.  Nyendorf. 

Date  Bars. 

One  cup  sugar,  3  eggs,  1  cup  flour,  few  grains  of  salt,  1 
heaping  teaspoon  baking  powder,  1  cup  walnuts  cut,  1  pound 
dates  cut.  Beat  egg  yolks  with  sugar  until  creamy ;  mix  flour, 
baking  powder  and  salt,  add  nuts  and  dates.  Beat  egg  whites 
stiff  and  stir  in.  Bake  in  a  shallow  pan  for  30  minutes. 
When  cool,  cut  in  bars  and  roll  in  powdered  sugar. — Mrs.  W. 
J.  Keuer. 

Date  Tarts. 

One-half  pound  sugar,  ^  pound  dates  (after  stones  are 
removed),  |  pound  almonds  (not  blanched),  3  eggs,  bread 
crumbs.  Beat  sugar  and  yolks  to  a  cream,  add  dates  and 
almonds,  which  have  been  mixed  thoroughly,  then  the  beaten 
whites,  little  vanilla.  Roll  with  hands  in  bread  crumbs,  bake 
in  moderate  oven,  let  in  pans  till  cold. — Mrs.  Louise  M.  La- 
frentz. 

Kisses. 

To  the  whites  of  2  eggs  add  J  cup  granulated  sugar  and 
beat  J  hour,  then  cut  up  some  dates  and  stir  in,  and  bake  in  a 
very  slow  oven.  Drop  on  tins,  but  do  not  grease  the  tins. 
If  you  should  want  more,  take  4  eggs  and  1  cup  of  sugar  and 
beat  1  hour.^Mrs.  Piepho. 

"Kisses." 

One  cup  corn  flakes,  1  cup  powdered  sugar,  1  cup  cocoanut, 

2  eggs  (whites).  Mix  corn  flakes,  powdered  sugar  and  cocoa- 
nut  together  with  beaten  whites  of  eggs.  Bake  until  light 
brown. — Mrs.  E.  Ferch. 


100  PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK 


Small  Spice  Cakes. 

To  1  cup  of  molasses  add  1  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  a 
cup  of  boiling  water,  2  tablespoons  melted  butter,  1  teaspoon 
powdered  cinnamon,  J  teaspoon  cloves,  J  teaspoon  mace,  J 
teaspoon  salt  and  3  cups  flour.  Beat  until  smooth  and  bake 
in  gem  pans  in  a  moderate  oven. — Mrs.  Albrecht. 

Cream  Puffs. 

One-half  cup  butter,  1  cup  boiling  water,  1  cup  flour,  4  eggs. 
Place  butter  and  water  in  saucepan,  on  range,  as  soon  as  it 
boils,  add  flour  all  at  once  until  well  mixed.  Stir  until  it 
forms  a  ball  and  leaves  the  sides  of  pan.  Set  off  to  cool  (not 
cold)  add  1  egg,  beat  5  minutes,  another  egg  and  beat  5  min- 
utes and  so  on  until  eggs  are  all  used  up  in  batter.  Drop 
mixture  on  oiled  shallow  pan,  bake  in  moderate  oven  40  or  50 
minutes.  When  cool  make  incision  and  fill  with  whipped 
cream  or  cream  filling.  (This  should  make  15  puffs.) — Mrs. 
A.  Emde. 


Cake  Icings  and  Fillings 

Boiled  Icing  for  Cake. 

Boil  together  1  cup  granulated  sugar  and  J  cup  water 
without  stirring  until  it  threads  quickly  when  lifted  with  a 
spoon ;  turn  this  hot  mixture  slowly  into  the  white  of  1  egg 
which  has  been  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  beat  while  turning  on 
the  hot  liquid ;  continue  to  beat  until  stiff  enough  to  spread ; 
add  i  teaspoon  any  preferred  extract.  If  the  sugar  has  cooked 
too  much  it  will  grain ;  then  it  may  be  made  smooth  by  beating 
in  a  little  boiling  water;  a  teaspoonful  at  a  time. — Mrs.  A.  J. 
Koehneke. 

Butter  Cream  Icing  and  Filling. 

One  pound  powdered  sugar,  ^  cup  butter,  1  teaspoon  van- 
illa, cream.  Mix  sugar  and  butter  and  beat  thoroughly,  then 
the  cream  until  it  spreads. — Mrs.  Graser. 


PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK  101 

Butter  Cream  Filling  and  Frosting. 

Beat  together  2  heaping  tablespoons  butter,  6  heaping 
tablespoons  powdered  sugar,  and  1  tablespoon  cream  or  milk. 
Beat  until  light  then  add  ^  teaspoon  baking  powder  and 
vanilla. — Mrs.   O.   Braun. 

Chocolate  Frosting. 
One  cup  confectioner's  sugar,  2  tablespoons  butter,  ^  tea- 
spoon vanilla,  2  teaspoons  cocoa,  2  tablespoons  cold  black  cof- 
fee.— Mrs.  O.  T.  Lachmann. 

Maple  Icing. 

One  and  one-half  cups  powdered  sugar,  ^  teaspoon  maple- 
ine  flavor,  J  teaspoon  butter,  2  tablespoons  hot  milk. — Mrs.  H. 
England. 

Strawberry  Whip. 

Take  1  pint  strawberries,  1  cup  sugar,  and  the  white  of  1 
egg.  Beat  all  together  until  stiff.  Serve  on  jello  or  cake. 
— Mrs.  Chas.  Hemler. 

Apple  Filling. 

Peel  and  grate  4  good  cooking  apples,  add  J  cup  sugar,  1 
egg  yolk,  juice  of  I  lemon.  Beat  together  and  cook  about  10 
minutes.  If  not  thick  enough  add  1  scant  teaspoon  cornstarch 
dissolved  in  water. — Mrs.  Klipp. 

Boston  Filling. 
Boil  1  cup  sugar  with  1  cup  water  till  it  threads,  then  beat 
in  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  2  eggs.     Chop  6  figs,  6  mara- 
schino cherries  or  more,  2  tablespoons  walnuts,  and  stir  into 
the  mixture  and  spread. — Flora  Hemler. 

Caramel  Filling. 

Two  cups  brown  sugar,  1  teaspoon  flour  (rub  well  in 
sugar),  butter  size  of  walnut,  J  cup  cream.  Boil  altogether 
until  waxy.     Flavor  with  vanilla. — Mrs.  Hunt. 


102  PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK 

Cocoa  Filling. 
One  cup  confectionery  sugar,   1   teaspoon  vanilla,   1   tea- 
spoon cocoa,  1  tablespoon  boiled  milk.     Stir  all  well  together ; 
double  the  amount  if  not  quite  enough. — Mrs.  Klipp. 

Cocoanut  Filling. 

One  cup  boiling  milk,  3  rolled  crackers,  the  yolks  of  2  eggs, 
4  tablespoons  sugar,  a  pinch  of  salt;  cook  a  few  minutes  until 
thick,  remove  from  fire,  add  1  cup  cocoanut  and  a  few  drops 
of  almond  oil. 

Lemon  Filling. 

1  cup  sugar,  2  tablespoons  flour,  1  egg,  1  lemon  (juice  and 
grated  rind),  1  piece  butter,  1  cup  water.  Add  flour  to  sugar 
and  mix,  then  add  in  egg,  lemon,  butter  and  water,  and  boil 
until  thick. — Mrs.  W.  J.  Keuer. 

Mocha  Filling. 

Two  cups  powdered  sugar,  1  cup  sweet  butter,  2  table- 
spoons cocoa,  4  tablespoons  hot  coffee,  1  teaspoon  vanilla. — 
Flora  Hemler. 

Nut  Filling. 

One  cup  milk,  J  cup  granulated  sugar,  small  piece  butter, 
yolk  of  1  egg,  cup  chopped  walnuts,  cornstarch,  vanilla.  Let 
the  milk,  sugar,  butter  and  egg  come  to  a  boil,  thicken  with 
cornstarch,  add  the  walnuts,  flavor  with  vanilla.  Spread  be- 
tween the  layers.  If  a  plain  custard  filling  is  desired,  omit 
nuts. — Mrs.  Theo.  Doering. 

Pineapple  Filling. 

About  IJ  cups  to  i  cup  pineapples,  shredded  and  the 
juice,  add  ^  cup  sugar  and  1  teaspoon  pineapple  extract.  Boil 
and  thicken  with  a  little  cornstarch  dissolved  in  water;  boil 
about  10  minutes. — Mrs.  Klipp. 

Tutti  Frutti  Filling. 

Make  a  boiled  frosting  and  when  cool  add  -J  pound  al- 
monds and  a  scant  i  cup  raisins  (chopped  fine)  ;  add  a  little 
citron  sliced  thin.     Spread  at  once. — Mrs.  H.  A.  Zorn. 


PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK  103 


Cakes 


Almond  Cake. 

One  cup  sugar,  scant  i  cup  butter  creamed  together,  add 
yolks  of  3  eggs  well  beaten,  1  cup  flour  with  J  teaspoon  bak- 
ing powder  and  lastly  beaten  whites  of  eggs.  Spread  about  1 
inch  of  dough  in  square  tin,  then  put  on  a  layer  of  split  al- 
monds, brown  side  up.  Sift  pulverized  sugar  over  top  as 
soon  as  taken  out  of  oven. — Mrs.  F.  Nyendorf. 

Bitter  Almond  Cake. 

One  pound  sugar,  IJ  pounds  flour,  f  pounds  butter,  whites 
of  8  eggs,  1  cup  milk,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  1  teaspoon 
almond  extract.  Bake  in  loaf  tins  about  an  hour,  moderate 
oven. — Mrs.  Schwoerer. 

Apple  Fruit  Cake. 

Two  cups  dried  apples  soaked  over  night  and  boil  down  in 
2  cups  of  molasses.  Add  1  cup  of  shortening,  -J  cup  of  coffee, 
2  eggs,  1  cup  sugar,  J  cup  sour  cream,  level  tablespoon  of 
soda,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  4  cups  flour,  spices  to  suit 
taste,  a  little  salt. — Mrs.  G.  Rausch. 

*  Apple  Sauce  Cake. 

One  and  one-half  cups  brown  sugar,  ^  cup  butter,  2  eggs, 
1  cup  apple  sauce  (not  sweetened),  1  teaspoon  soda,  J  tea- 
spoon cinnamon,  ^  teaspoon  cloves,  1  cup  raisins,  2  cups 
flour,  J  cup  nuts  may  be  added.  Bake  in  loaf  tin  about  1  hour 
in  slow  oven. 

Frosting:  One  cup  brown  sugar,  3  tablespoons  milk,  1 
tablespoon  butter;  cook  until  it  forms  a  ball  in  cold  water. — 
Mrs.   Piepho. 

Angel  Cake. 

Whites  of  8  large  or  9  medium  eggs,  IJ  cups  granulated 
sugar,  1  cup  Swansdown  cake  flour,  ^  teaspoon  cream  of 
tartar,  a  pinch  of  salt  added  to  eggs  before  whipping,  flavor 
to  taste.     Sift,  measure  and  set  aside  sugar  and  flour;  whip 


104  PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK 


eggs  to  foam,  add  cream  of  tartar,  and  whip  until  very  stiff; 
add  sugar  and  fold  in  (always  using  a  spoon  to  mix  cakes 
with)  then  flavor  and  fold  in,  then  flour  and  fold  in  lightly 
through.  Put  in  a  moderate  oven  at  once.  Will  bake  in  about 
25  minutes.  It  should  not  take  longer,  as  baking  too  long 
dries  out  moisture  and  makes  them  tough  and  dry.  Put  in 
oven  too  hot  for  butter  cakes  and  not  hot  enough  for  bis- 
cuits. If  the  cake  is  properly  mixed,  it  will  rise  above  pan. 
When  it  is  done  it  begins  to  shrink ;  let  it  shrink  back  to  level 
of  pan.  Watch  this  stage  carefully  and  when  it  shrinks  back 
to  level  of  pan,  take  out  of  oven  and  invert  immediately,  rest 
on  center  tube,  let  hang  until  perfectly  cold,  then  cut  cake 
loose  from  around  sides  and  center  tube.  Knock  back  slide, 
insert  knife  and  cut  loose  from  the  bottom ;  turn  out.  This 
must  be  put  in  pan  that  has  never  been  greased. — Mrs.  Al- 
brecht. 

Blitz-Kuchen. 

One  cup  sugar,  J  cup  butter,  3  eggs  beaten  separately,  J 
cup  milk,  2  cups  flour,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  1  teaspoon 
vanilla.  Put  almonds,  sugar  and  cinnamon  on  top.  Bake  in 
3  long  pans  and  cut  while  hot. — Mrs.  F.  W.  Seeglitz. 

Bride's  Cake. 

One  scant  cup  butter,  3  cups  sugar,  1  cup  milk,  12  egg 
whites,  1  cup  cornstarch,  3  cups  sifted  flour,  3  tablespoons  bak- 
ing powder,  flavoring  to  taste.  Cream  butter,  add  sugar  and 
cream  again,  alternate  with  milk  and  flour;  add  baking  pow- 
der mixed  with  cornstarch,  lastly  the  stiffly  beaten  whites. 
Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  2  hours,  the  exact  time  will  depend 
on  the  thickness  of  the  loaf. — Mrs.  Albrecht. 

Burnt  Caramel  Cake. 
Cream  |  cup  butter,  add  1^  cups  granulated  sugar  gradu- 
ally, the  yolks  of  2  eggs  well  beaten;  add  slowly  1  cup  cold 
water,  then  IJ  cups  flour;  beat  well.  After  this  add  3  table- 
spoons of  the  burnt  sugar,  1  teaspoon  vanilla,  another  cup  of 
flour;  beat  again,  then  add  2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder, 


PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK  105 

lastly  the  well  beaten  whites  of  2  eggs.  Bake  in  3  layers  and 
put  together  with  boiled  icing  flavored  with  3  tablespoons  of 
the  burnt  caramel  and  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

To  burn  the  sugar:  -J  cup  granulated  sugar  in  skillet, 
stirred  constantly  over  the  fire.  It  will  soften,  then  melt  and 
finally  become  liquid,  until  it  throws  off  an  intense  smoke. 
Have  ready  i  cup  boiling  water ;  remove  sugar  from  fire,  pour 
water  into  it,  stir  quickly,  and  set  back  on  the  fire  to  boil  till 
about  as  thick  as  molasses. — Mrs.  Koehneke. 

"Cherry  Cake.'* 

One  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  J  cup  butter,  1  cup  milk,  J  cup 
nuts,  J  cup  marachino  cherries,  1  pinch  salt,  1 J  cups  flour  sifted 
three  times,  ^  cup  flour  with  two  teaspoons  baking  powder, 
flavor  with  vanilla,  4  whites  of  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth, 
fold  in  with  other  ingredients. — Mrs.  E.  Ferch. 

Citron  Cake. 
Two  cups  sugar,  6  eggs,  ^  pound  butter,  2  cups  flour,  1  cup 
ground  nuts  (walnuts  preferred),  1  cup  citron  and  orange  peel 
ground,  |  cup  milk,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder. — Mrs.  H.  G. 
Thoms. 

Cocoanut  Sandwich. 

One  cup  flour,  |  cup  sugar,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder,  1 
tgg,  butter  size  of  an  tgg.  Cream  butter,  add  sugar,  and  egg 
well  beaten,  then  add  flour  and  baking  powder  sifted  together. 
Beat  well,  bake  in  a  layer.  When  done  split  open  and  put 
lemon  cream  between.  Icing  and  cocoanut  on  top. — Mrs.  O. 
Braun. 

Vanilla  Cocoanut  Loaf. 

One  cup  sugar,  J  cup  butter,  ^  cup  milk,  beat  3  eggs  seper- 
ately,  add  another  J  cup  milk,  1  teaspoon  vanilla,  J  of  a  small 
package  of  cocoanut,  IJ  cups  flour,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder, 
^  teaspoon  soda.     Medium  oven. — Elsie  Rauschert. 

Coffee  Cake. 

Two  cups  light  brown  sugar,  1  cup  butter,  1  cup  syrup, 
1  cup  strong  coffee,  4  eggs,  1  teaspoon  saleratus  (baking  soda). 


106  PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK 

2  teaspoons  cinnamon,  2  teaspoons  cloves,  1  teaspoon  grated 
nutmeg,  1  pound  raisins,  1  pound  currants  and  4  cups  flour. — 
Mrs.  Albrecht. 

Cornstarch  Cake. 

One  cup  sugar,  J  cup  butter,  J  cup  sweet  milk,  -J  cup 
cornstarch,  1  cup  flour,  whites  of  6  eggs,  a  little  vanilla,  2 
teaspoons  baking  powder.  Cream  butter  and  sugar  together, 
then  add  milk,  then  cornstarch  and  then  flour  with  baking 
powder.     Lastly  the  6  beaten  whites. — Mrs.  Albrecht. 

French  Cream  Cake. 

One  cup  sugar,  3  eggs  beaten  well,  1^  cups  flour,  2  tea- 
spoons baking  powder,  3  tablespoons  cold  water.  Bake  in  two 
tins.  Split  cake  with  knife  and  fill  with  following  cream : 
1  pint  milk,  1  egg  yolk,  2  tablespoons  cornstarch ;  boil  until 
stiff.     Mrs.  M.  Brockman. 

Sweet  Cream  Cake. 
Ten  cent  bottle  cream,  3  eggs,  1  cup  sugar,  pinch  of  salt,  1^ 
cups  flour,  1  heaping  teaspoon  baking  powder,  1  teaspoon  van- 
illa.    Mix  well  and  bake  in  a  form  tin  in  a  slow  oven. 

Date  Cake. 

Two  eggs,  f  cup  sugar,  ^  cup  flour,  ^  teaspoon  baking  pow- 
der, 1  cup  chopped  walnuts,  1  cup  dates,  cut  lengthwise.  Do 
not  grease  pan.  Bake  J  hour  slowly.  Serve  with  whipped 
cream. — Mrs.  J.  H.  Kalte. 

Date  Cake. 

One  and  one-half  cups  butter,  IJ  cups  sugar,  2  large  or  3 
small  eggs,  1  cup  sour  milk,  1  teaspoon  baking  soda,  1  package 
dates  cut  in  small  pieces,  1  cup  walnuts  chopped  fine,  2  large 
cups  flour,  1  teaspoon  vanilla  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Mix  butter 
and  sugar,  add  eggs,  nuts,  dates  and  vanilla  Add  sour  milk 
in  which  soda  has  been  dissolved,  then  flour  and  salt.  Bake 
in  long  narrow  tins,  about  45  minutes  in  moderate  oven. — 
Mrs.  W.  H.  Mampe. 


PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK  107 

French  Date  Cake. 

Beat  the  yolks  of  6  eggs  with  2  cups  sugar,  then  add  the 
beaten  whites  of  eggs.  Beat  well ;  add  2  cups  flour,  2  tea- 
spoons baking  powder,  J  pound  nuts,  1  pound  dates.  Cut 
dates  and  nuts.  Flour  both  well,  then  add  to  batter.  Bake 
J  hour  in  coffee  cake  tins.  This  makes  two  cakes. — Mrs.  W. 
C.  Hinrichs. 

Daisy  Cake. 

Beat  together  1  cup  sugar  and  4  Qgg  yolks  until  very  light, 
stir  in  J  pound  butter  which  has  been  creamed,  and  then  add  1 
gill  of  water  mixed  with  3  teaspoons  cream,  1  teaspoon  vanil- 
la, about  li  cups  flour  sifted  with  2  level  teaspoons  baking 
powder.  The  dough  should  not  be  too  stiff.  Bake  in  2  lay- 
ers. These  form  the  yellow  part.  For  the  white  part  cream 
together  -J  cup  butter  and  IJ  cups  sugar,  add  1  cup  luke  warm 
water  and  2J  cups  flour  sifted  with  2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 
Beat  hard,  then  add  the  juice  and  rind  of  1  lemon  and  the 
stiffly  beaten  whites  of  4  eggs.  Bake  in  layers.  Put  to- 
gether with  a  boiled  icing  filling,  alternating  yellow  and  white 
layers.  Use  the  same  icing  on  top  covering  it  with  grated 
orange  peel — when  this  icing  is  cold,  form  a  daisy  on  it  of 
white  boiled  icing  using  a  pastry  tube. — Mrs.  A.  Weith. 

Economy  Cake. 

One  cup  water,  1  cup  sugar,  1  cup  raisins,  1  teaspoon  lard, 
^  teaspoon  cloves,  1  teaspoon  cinnamon.  Mix  and  boil  4 
minutes,  let  cool  4  minutes.  Add  2  cups  flour,  1  teaspoon  soda 
dissolved  in  J  cup  warm  water,  a  pinch  of  salt,  nuts  if  de- 
sired.    Bake  in  loaf. — Elsie  Rauschert. 

Feather  Cake. 

One  and  one-quarter  cups  sugar,  J  cup  butter,  ^  cup 
water,  4  eggs,  2^  cups  flour,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder. 
Flavor  to  taste.  Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  beaten  yolks, 
water,  and  beaten  whites  of  eggs,  then  add  flour  and  flavoring 
and  stir  hard.  Bake  in  slow  oven,  either  in  loaf  or  layers. 
— Mrs.  G.  C.  Hass. 


108  PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK 

Fruit  Cake. 

One  cup  seedless  raisins,  1  cup  dates  stoned,  each  chopped 
fine,  i  cup  butter,  1  cup  water.  Let  boil  5  minutes,  cool,  and 
add  1  cup  sugar,  1  teaspoon  cinnamon,  1  teaspoon  cloves,  ^ 
teaspoon  salt,  1  level  teaspoon  baking  powder,  1  teaspoon 
lemon  extract,  2  cups  flour.  Bake  in  loaf  cake  pan  in  a  slow 
oven  for  45  minutes. — Mrs.  Wm.  Fredericks. 

My  Christmas  Fruit  Cake. 
One  pound  brown  sugar,  1  pound  butter,  8  eggs,  1  pound 
large  dark  raisins,  1  pound  sultana  raisins,  1  pound  currants, 
1  pound  cirton,  ^  pound  figs,  4  apples,  1  tablespoon  molasses, 
1  cup  sour  milk,  1  teaspoon  soda,  1  teaspoon  each  of  spices,  1 
cup  good  brandy,  1^  pounds  Swansdown  cake  flour,  2  tea- 
spoons baking  powder.  Bake  about  2  hours. — Mrs.  O.  A. 
Skibbe. 

Fruit  Cake. 

Two  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  |  cup  butter,  4  eggs,  2^ 
cups  milk,  1  teaspoon  vanilla,  a  little  salt,  1  cup  citron,  2  cups 
seedless  raisins,  2  cups  seeded  raisins,  1  cup  almonds  (chopped 
fine),  J  teaspoon  nutmeg,  1  teaspoon  each  of  ginger  and 
cloves,  1  wineglass  each  of  wine  and  brandy,  4  teaspoons  bak- 
ing powder,  5^  to  6  cups  flour.  Bake  IJ  to  2  hours.  Test 
with  straw. — Mrs.   Graser. 

Fruit  Cake. 

One  pound  flour,  1  pound  sugar,  |  pound  butter,  2  pounds 
seeded  raisins,  2  pounds  currants,  1  pound  citron,  i  cup 
brandy,  8  or  10  eggs,  1  teaspoon  mace,  2  teaspoons  cinnamon, 
allspice  and  nutmeg,  1  teaspoon  cloves,  1  tablespoon  soda  dis- 
solved in  J  cup  cold  coffee,  salt  to  taste.  Stir  the  butter  and 
sugar  to  a  cream,  then  the  whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately, 
the  flour  gradually,  brandy,  spices,  lastly  the  fruit,  which 
should  be  mixed  with  part  flour. — Hattie  Guelzow. 

Fruit  Cake. 
One  cup  sugar,  2  cups  flour,  J  teaspoon   nutmeg,  ^  tea- 
spoon cloves,  i  teaspoon  allspice,  1  teaspoon  vanilla,  1  table- 


PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK  109 


spoon  cinnamon.  Mix  dry  ingredients  together,  then  add  1 
wineglass  wine,  IJ  cups  sponge,  J  cup  melted  butter,  ^  cup 
milk  (warm),  1  teaspoon  baking  soda.  Mix  and  add  1  pound 
raisins,  1  pound  currants,  ^  cup  chopped  nuts,  a  few  chopped 
cherries  (candied),  a  little  citron,  lemon  peel  and  orange  peel 
chopped  in  small  pieces.  Add  3  eggs,  beating  the  whites  to  a 
stiff  froth.  Let  it  rise  1  hour  and  bake  1  hour. — Mrs.  P. 
Weissbrodt. 

White  Fruit  Cake. 

One  cup  butter,  2  cups  sugar,  1  cup  milk,  2^  cups  flour,  7 
egg  w^hites,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  1  pound  seedless  rai- 
sins bleached,  1  pound  figs,  J  pound  walnuts,  ^  pound  citron, 
1  pound  cocoanut.     Bake  2  hours. — Mrs.  M.  Brockman. 

Ginger  Cake. 

One  cup  New  Orleans  molasses,  i  cup  lard,  i  cup  sour 
milk  or  buttermilk,  1  egg,  salt  to  taste,  2  level  teaspoons  soda, 

1  teaspoon  cinnamon,  J  teaspoon  .ginger,  2  cups  sifted  flour. 
Bake  in  2  layers  and  use  white  frosting. — Mrs.  Chas.  Hemler. 

Gold  Cake. 

Yolks  of  8  large  or  9  small  eggs,  IJ  cups  granulated  sugar, 
f  cup  butter,  f  cup  water,  2^  cups  Swansdown  cake  flour, 

2  heaping  teaspoons  baking  powder,  flavoring.  Sift  flour  once, 
then  measure,  add  baking  powder  and  sift  three  times;  cream 
butter  and  sugar  thoroughly ;  add  flavor,  water,  then  flour,  then 
stir  very  hard.     Put  in  a  slow  oven  at  once. — Mrs.  Albrecht. 

Graham  Cracker  Cake. 

One  cup  sugar,  ^  cup  butter,  2  eggs  (well  beaten  sepa- 
rately), 1  cup  milk,  1  cup  graham  crackers  rolled  fine,  1  cup 
flour,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder  and  1  teaspoon  vanilla. 

Filling:  One-third  of  a  cup  sugar,  1  cup  milk,  yolk  of  1 
egg,  1  teaspoon  cornstarch,  juice  of  |  lemon  and  1  cup  walnut 
meats,  added  last.     Boil  in  double  boiler  until  thick. 

Frosting :  White  of  1  egg,  1  cup  confectioners'  sugar,  but- 
ter size  of  a  walnut.  Do  not  beat  white  of  egg  separately,  but 
beat  all  together  until  nice  and  creamy. — Mrs.  Wm.  Ehlenfeld. 


no  PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK 

Graham  Cracker  Cake. 

Two  tablespoons  butter,  1  cup  sugar,  4  eggs  (or  less) 
separated,  ^  cup  shredded  cocoanut  or  nut  meats,  1  cup  milk, 

2  cups  rolled  graham  crackers,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder, 
vanilla.  Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  yolks  of  eggs  and  milk. 
Mix  cocoanut,  baking  powder  and  graham  crackers  rolled  fine, 
and  stir  into  butter  mixture.  Lastly,  fold  in  beaten  whites  of 
eggs.  Bake  in  2  layers  in  a  moderate  oven.  Cover  with  but- 
ter frosting,  using  lemon  flavor,  and  sprinkle  with  fresh  or 
desicated  cocoanut,  put  through  food  grinder. — Clare  L. 
Kemnitz. 

Ice  Cream  Cake. 

Beat  the  whites  of  10  eggs  very  stiff,  add  gradually  IJ 
cups  powdered  sugar  and  1  cup  flour  and  a  heaping  teaspoon 
of  cream  of  tartar  mixed  thoroughly  into  the  flour  before  sift- 
ing it.  Bake  in  jelly  pans  or  layers.  Be  careful  not  to  let  mix- 
ture warm  before  putting  into  pans. 

Filling:  One-half  pint  sweet  cream  brought  to  boiling 
point,  1  teaspoon  cornstarch  dissolved  in  a  little  milk,  yolks  of 

3  eggs  beaten  and  1  tablespoon  powdered  sugar.  While  still 
warm  add  i  pound  chopped  almonds  and  fill  layers  with  the 
warm  mixture.  Insert  halved  almonds  on  top  of  cake.  Does 
not  necessarily  have  to  be  frosted.  This  is  a  delicious  cake. — 
M.  Doederlein. 

Jam  Cake. 

One  cup  sugar,  J  cup  butter,  f  cup  strawberry  jam,  ^ 
cup  sour  milk,  1  teaspoon  baking  soda,  3  eggs,  2  cups  flour, 
1  teaspoon  cinnamon,  J  teaspoon  nutmeg.  Cream  butter  and 
sugar,  add  beaten  yolks,  jam,  sour  milk  mixed  with  the  soda 
flour  and  spices,  then  the  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs. — Mrs. 
G.  C.  Hass. 

Delicious  Jelly  Roll. 

Take  3  eggs,  1  cup  flour,  1  teaspoonful  baking  powder,  1 
cup  sugar,  1  teaspoonful  vanilla.  Bake  in  good  size  square 
pan.  When  done,  place  on  wet  towel,  spread  with  jelly  or 
jam  and  roll  carefully. — Mrs.  Anna  A.  Jaekel. 


PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK  111 


Layer  Cake. 

One-half  cup  butter,  1  cup  sugar,  2  eggs,  2  level  cups  flour, 
2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  §  cup  cold  water.  Flavor  to  taste. 
— Mrs.  J.  Rausch. 

Sour  Milk  Layer  Cake. 

Cream  If  cups  of  sugar  with  ^  cup  of  butter,  add  3  eggs 
and  beat  the  batter  hard.  Stir  in  a  cup  of  sour  milk  into  which 
a  generous  pinch  of  baking  soda  has  been  beaten.  Last  of  all, 
whip  in  lightly  3  level  cups  of  flour  that  has  been  sifted  with 
2  teaspoons  of  baking  powder.  Bake  in  three  layers  and  put 
together  with  any  kind  of  icing  or  filling. — Mrs.  J.  Rausch. 

Loaf  Cake. 

Three  eggs,  whites — yolks  beaten  separately,  whites  added 
last,  1  cup  sugar,  J  cup  butter,  §  cup  milk,  2  cups  flour,  1  tea- 
spoon baking  powder. — Mrs.  Semmlow. 

Fairy  Loaf  Cake. 

Four  eggs  beaten  separately,  IJ  cups  sugar,  |  cup  butter, 
i  cup  sweet  milk,  2^  cups  flour,  1  teaspoon  cream  tartar,  scant 
J  teaspoon  baking  soda,  and  flavor  to  taste.  Sift  flour  once, 
then  measure,  add  soda,  and  sift  three  times.  Cream  butter 
and  sugar  thoroughly,  beat  yolks  to  a  very  stiff  froth  and  stir 
in,  add  milk,  whip  whites  to  foam,  add  cream  of  tartar  and 
whip  until  very  stiff,  and  add  to  first  mixture.  Then  add 
flavor,  then  flour  and  stir  very  hard.  Put  in  a  slow  oven  at 
once.     Will  bake  in  30  to  50  minutes. — Mrs.  F.  Feig. 

Grapenuts  Loaf  Cake. 

One  cup  grapenuts,  2J  cups  flour,  3  eggs,  1  cup  milk,  -J 
cup  butter,  1^  cups  sugar,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  1  tea- 
spoon vanilla.  Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  Ggg  yolks  well 
beaten,  then  milk  and  grapenuts ;  beat  well,  fold  in  alternately 
the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  eggs  and  flour  sifted  with  baking 
powder.  Bake  35  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. — Mrs.  H.  A. 
Zorn. 


112  PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK 

Imported  Loaf  Cake. 

Beat  f  pound  butter  and  7  ounces  sugar  25  minutes.  Add 
a  pinch  of  salt,  7  tablespoons  lukewarm  milk,  5  eggs  beaten 
separately,  3  level  teaspoons  baking  powder,  14  ounces  flour. 
Bake  1  hour. — Mrs.  Sodeman. 

Marble  Cake. 
Boil  until  dissolved,  1  tablespoon  sugar,  1  tablespoon  milk, 

1  square  chocolate  (grated),  set  to  cool.  Mix  1  cup  sugar,  ^ 
cup  butter,  1  egg,  1  cup  milk,  2  cups  pastry  flour  (sifted  twice), 

2  level  teaspoons  baking  powder,  flavor  with  vanilla.  Add  the 
chocolate  to  one  half  of  the  dough,  drop  one  large  spoonful  of 
the  chocolate  mixture  then  one  of  the  other  mixture  and  so  on. 
For  second  layer  drop  the  dark  on  the  light  and  the  light  on 
the  dark  mixture.  Bake  in  well  buttered  pan  in  a  moderate 
oven.  This  makes  a  loaf  or  small  layer  cake. — Mrs.  Mamie 
Gruhn. 

Inexpensive  Marble  Cake. 
Cream  -J  cup  shortening  with  1  cup  sugar ;  add  a  pinch  of 
salt,  the  well  beaten  white  of  2  eggs,  1  cup  milk,  and  2  cups 
flour  sifted  twice  with  2  tablespoons  baking  powder.  When 
the  dough  is  well  mixed,  put  half  of  it  in  another  bowl  for 
the  white  part  of  the  cake.  Then  add  to  what  is  left,  2  scant 
teaspoons  each  of  cinnamon,  cloves  and  allspice,  this  making 
the  dark  part  of  the  batter.  Drop  the  dark  and  light  mix- 
tures alternately  by  the  spoonful  into  a  well  greased  floured 
cake  tin. — Mrs.  Anna  A.  Jaekel. 

"Nut  Cake." 

Two  cups  sugar,  1  cup  milk,  §  cup  butter,  3  cups  sifted 
flour,  3  eggs,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  1  cup  nuts.  Cream 
butter  and  sugar,  add  yolks  of  eggs,  milk,  then  baking  powder 
and  flour,  and  chopped  nuts.  Lastly  add  whites  of  eggs 
beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Bake  about  45  minutes  in  a  medium 
oven. — Mrs.  E.  Ferch. 


PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK  113 

Hickory  Nut  Cake. 

One-half  cup  butter,  1  cup  sugar,  whites  of  3  eggs,  J  cup 
milk,  IJ  cups  flour,  |  cup  chopped  hickory,  walnut  or  pecan 
meats,  1  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar,  J  teaspoon  soda  dissolved 
in  1  teaspoon  milk.  Cream  the  butter  well  with  sugar,  stir 
in  the  whites  beaten  stiff  and  beat  until  light  and  smooth ; 
add  milk  and  flour,  alternately  and  continue  stirring;  add  nuts, 
stir,  then  sprinkle  the  cream  of  tartar  over  the  mixture  and 
lastly  stir  in  the  soda  dissoved  in  1  teaspoon  milk.  Beat  again 
and  then  place  in  well  buttered  and  slightly  floured  loaf  pan 
and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. — Mrs.  O.  A.  Kleppish. 

Maple-nut  Cake. 
One-third  cup  shortening,  1  cup  brown  sugar,  J  cup  milk,  1^ 
cups  flour,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  2  eggs,  1  teaspoon  vanil- 
la, 1  cup  chopped  nuts,  J  teaspoon  salt.  Cream  shortening  and 
sugar,  add  yolks  of  eggs  and  milk.  Beat  well,  then  add  flour, 
salt  and  baking  powder.  Fold  in  beaten  whites  of  eggs  last. 
Bake  in  loaf  about  35  to  45  minutes. — Mrs.  H.  England. 

Whipped  Cream  Nut  Cake. 

Cream  1  cup  sugar  with  2  tablespoons  of  lard,  or  butter 
substitute,  add  yolks  of  2  eggs,  1  teaspoon  vanilla,  f  cup  sweet 
milk,  2  cups  flour  sifted  with  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  a 
pinch  of  salt,  ^  cup  finely  chopped  nuts  and  the  beaten  whites 
of  2  eggs. 

Filling:  One  bottle  cream  whipped,  1  tablespoon  confec- 
tioners' sugar,  J  cup  chopped  nuts. — Elsie  Rauschert. 

Orange  Cake. 

One-half  cup  butter,  2  cups  sugar,  4  egg  yolks,  the  juice 
and  grated  peel  of  1  large  orange  and  a  cup  of  cold  water  and 
3  cups  flour,  the  whites  of  the  2  eggs  beaten  stiff,  2  heaping 
teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Frosting:  Into  the  whites  of  eggs  beat  2  cups  powdered 
sugar  and  when  smooth  and  white  flavor  with  orange  juice  and 
a  few  drops  of  lemon  and  grated  peel  of  orange.  Spread  on 
cake. — Mrs.  Piepho. 


114  PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK 

Plain  Cake. 
One-half  cup  butter,  1  cup  sugar,  2  eggs,  1  cup  sour  milk, 
1  teaspoon  soda,  1  cup  raisins,  2J  cups  flour,  1  teaspoon  cin- 
namon, ^  teaspoon  cloves.  Cream  butter  and  sugar ;  add  well 
beaten  eggs.  Dissolve  soda  in  2  teaspoons  cold  water,  and 
beat  it  into  the  sour  milk.  Combine  the  mixtures,  add  spices 
and  flour  gradually.  Cut  raisins  and  add.  Bake  45  minutes 
in  a  slow  oven.    This  mixture  makes  1  loaf. — Mrs.  Ehlenfeld. 

Plain  One  Egg  Cake. 

Cream  good  1  cup  of  sugar,  1  tablespoon  of  butter,  then 
add  the  yolk  of  1  egg.  Sift  2  cups  of  flour  and  2  level  tea- 
spoons of  baking  powder  several  times.  Take  1  cup  of  milk 
and  gradually  add  the  milk  and  flour  to  the  above  mixture. 
Add  any  flavoring.  Fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten  white  of  an  Qgg. 
Have  oven  real  hot  when  you  put  the  cake  in,  then  turn  low. 
Bake  about  20  minutes.  This  can  be  baked  as  loaf,  layer  or 
cup  cake  and  varied  by  adding  either  currants,  raisins,  figs, 
dates,  nuts,  cocoanut  or  chocolate. — Mrs.  A.  J.  Lottes. 

Pork  Cake. 

One  pound  fat  salt  pork  chopped  fine  dissolved  in  1  pint 
boiling  water,  3  cups  brown  sugar,  1^  cups  molasses  and 
syrup  mixed,  1  pound  raisins  (light  seedless),  1  pound  raisins 
(dark  seedless),  2  tablespoons  cinnamon,  -J  teaspoon  cloves, 
1  teaspoon  baking  soda,  2  teaspoons  cream  of  tartar,  1  nutmeg, 
7  cups  flour,  5  cents  citron,  15  cents  shelled  walnuts,  10  cents 
figs,  10  cents  dates ;  citron,  nuts,  figs,  dates  chopped  fine.  Mix 
all  together  and  bake  2J  hours  in  moderate  oven.  This  makes 
three  cakes.  If  desired,  ^  cup  brandy  may  be  added. — Mrs.  E. 
Koretke. 

Pork  Cake. 

One  pound  of  fresh  salt  pork,  chopped,  |  pint  of  boiling 
water,  1  cup  molasses,  2  cups  brown  sugar,  3  eggs,  1  teaspoon 
soda  mixed  with  flour,  1  teaspoon  cinnamon,  1  teaspoon  cloves, 
1  teaspoon  nutmeg,  1  pound  raisins,  1  pound  currants,  1 
pound  nuts,  1  pound  dates,  citron,  2^  cups  flour.  Bake  in  slow 
oven  1^  hours. — Mrs.  R.  Baur. 


PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK  115 

Half-Pound  Cake. 

One  cup  butter,  H  cups  powdered  sugar,  ^  cup  milk,  2  cups 
flour,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  4  eggs.  Cream  butter  and 
sugar,  add  well  beaten  yolks,  then  milk  and  flour,  and  finally 
the  stiffly  beaten  whites  and  baking  powder.  Bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  until  light  brown. — Mrs.  A.  Braun. 

Pound  Cake. 
Cream  1  cup  of  butter  and  1  cup  of  sugar,  add  4  eggs  beaten 
separately,  then  1  cup  milk,  2  cups  flour,  2  teaspoons  baking 
powder.     The  longer  the  butter  and  sugar  are  beaten  the  better 
the  cake. — ^Mrs.  M.  C.  Kretchmer. 

Pound  Cake  or  Almond  Loaf. 

Three-fourths  of  a  pound  of  butter  (scant),  f  pound  sugar, 
4  eggs  (yolks  and  whites  beaten  separately),  J  pound  flour, 
sifted  well  with  J  pound  cornstarch,  J  pound  almonds  (chopped 
fine).  Flavor  to  suit.  Frost  the  cake  and  use  some  of  the 
almonds  whole  to  ornament  the  top.  Cream,  butter  and  sugar, 
add  yolks  that  have  been  beaten  well,  next  flour  and  corn- 
starch and  almonds,  lastly  the  beaten  whites.  Beat  the  cake 
for  about  J  hour,  until  light.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  for  1 
hour. — Mrs.  A.  Streger. 

Pound  Cake. 

Wash  and  drain  ^  pound  butter.  Beat  it  with  the  hand 
until  it  is  quite  creamy,  then  add  i  pound  sugar.  Beat  it  until 
it  is  like  the  lightest  and  whitest  hard  sauce ;  then  add  1  egg, 
beat  it  until  it  is  quite  incorporated,  then  add  another  and  beat 
again,  and  so  on  until  5  eggs  are  used.  Take  great  care  that 
each  Qgg  is  incorporated  before  the  next  is  added.  This  re- 
quires from  three  to  five  minutes  beating  between  each  egg, 
according  to  how  vigorous  or  slow  your  strokes  are.  The 
success  of  the  cake  depends  on  sufficient  beating.  When  eggs, 
sugar  and  butter  look  like  thick,  yellow  cream,  add  gradually  a 
small  sherry  glass  of  wine  or  brandy  and  ^  wine  glass  of  rose 
water.  Mix  well  together,  then  sift  into  the  ingredients  | 
pound  of  the  finest  flour  well  dried  and  very  slightly  warmed, 


116  PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK 

to  which  J  saltspoon  of  salt  has  been  added.  Line  a  round 
cake  pan  (with  upright  sides)  with  buttered  paper  neatly 
fitted,  and  pour  the  batter  into  it  and  sift  powdered  sugar  over 
the  surface.  Bake  this  cake  1^  hours  in  a  very  slow  oven. 
Lay  a  cardboard  over  the  top  for  the  first  hour,  which  may  then 
be  removed  and  the  cake  allowed  to  brown  slowly.  In  turning, 
be  very  careful  not  to  shake  or  jar  it. — Mrs.  Albrecht. 

Prince  Albert  Cake. 
One  cup  sugar,  |  cup  butter,  1  egg,  1  cup  milk,  1  teaspoon 
soda,  scant  2  cups  flour,   1   teaspoon  cinnamon,   J   teaspoon 
cloves,  i  cup  chopped  raisins. — M.  Hemler. 

Prune  Cake. 

One  cup  sugar,  ^  cup  butter,  2  cups  flour,  1  cup  sour  milk, 
3  eggs,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder,  1  teaspoon  baking  soda,  1 
cup  prunes  (chopped  fine),  10  cents  worth  of  walnuts  (chopped 
fine). — Mrs.  William  Blanchard. 

Southern  Cake. 

Three-quarter  cup  raisins,  }  cup  dates,  j  cup  nuts,  1  tea- 
spoon baking  soda  dissolved  in  1  cup  boiling  water,  pour  on 
fruit  and  let  cool,  i  cup  butter,  1^  cup  sugar,  1  teaspoon  vanilla, 
2  eggs  well  beaten  with  butter  and  sugar,  add  fruit  and  2  cups 
flour. — Mrs.  L.  Langfeld. 

Delicate  Spice  Cake. 

Two-thirds  cup  butter,  §  cup  sugar,  2^  cups  flour,  1  tgg, 
1  cup  molasses,  1  cup  milk,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder,  1  table- 
spoon mixed  ground  spice,  pinch  salt,  1  cup  raisins.  Beat  egg, 
add  sugar.  Add  mixed  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt,  spices, 
molasses  and  raisins.  Bake  in  quick  oven. — Mrs.  C.  H.  Mas- 
sow. 

Eggless  Spice  Cake. 

One  cup  sugar,  ^  cup  butter,  1  cup  sour  milk,  2  cups  flour, 
i  teaspoon  salt,  1  teaspoon  cinnamon,  J  teaspoon  cloves,  J 
teaspoon  nutmeg,  1  cup  chopped  nuts  or  raisins. — Mrs.  Semm- 
low. 


PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK  117 

Sponge  Cake. 

Yolks  of  3  eggs  well  beaten,  add  1  cup  sugar  and  beat  very- 
hard,  add  4  tablespoons  cold  water,  1  cup  flour  sifted  with  1 
teaspoon  baking  powder,  ^  teaspoon  vanilla  and  ^  teaspoon 
lemon,  beat  2  minutes,  then  add  beaten  whites  of  3  eggs. 
Bake  in  slow  oven  about  30  minutes. — Mrs.  G.  C.  Hass. 

Sponge  Cake. 

Beat  yolks  of  2  eggs  light,  beat  whites  of  2  eggs  light. 
Add  i  cup  flour  and  1  teaspoon  baking  powder  and  a  pinch 
of  salt.  Do  not  grease  tins.  Bake  in  moderate  oven ;  flavor 
to  suit. — Mrs.  G.  H.  Rausch. 

Hot  Water  Sponge  Cake. 

Beat  yolks  of  4  eggs  until  light  and  thick,  add  gradually  | 
cup  sugar  and  continue  beating.  Then  add  4  tablespoons  hot 
water,  i  teaspoon  almond  extract.  Beat  whites  stiff  with 
pinch  of  salt,  add  |  cup  sugar,  1  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar  and 
beat  again.  Add  to  the  first  mixture,  beating  all  of  the  time, 
then  fold  in  1  cup  flour  with  1  teaspoon  baking  powder.  Sift 
flour  and  sugar  5  times.  Bake  in  ungreased  pan  J  hour. — 
Mrs.  F.  Nyendorf. 

Prize  Hot  Water  Sponge  Cake. 

Yolks  of  5  eggs  beaten  light,  1  cup  granulated  sugar,  4 
tablespoons  hot  water,  1  cup  of  flour,  1  teaspoon  baking  pow- 
der, 1  teaspoon  vanilla,  whites  of  eggs  beaten  stiff,  sift  sugar 
and  flour  5  times.  Bake  from  45  minutes  to  1  hour  in  a  slow 
oven. — ^^Mrs.  R.  Baur. 

Loaf  Sponge  Cake. 

Four  eggs,  2  cups  sugar,  1  cup  boiling  water,  2f  cups 
flour,  IJ  teaspoons  baking  powder,  ^  teaspoon  lemon  extract. 
Beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  very  light,  beat  in  gradually  the 
sugar.  Add  the  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs  and  boiling  water. 
Beat  in  very  lightly  the  flour  and  baking  powder  well  sifted 
together.  Flavor.  Bake  in  a  loaf  pan  in  moderate  oven. — 
Mrs.  C.  H.  Massow. 


118  PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK 

Cornstarch  Sponge  Cake. 
Four  eggs,  IJ  cups  sugar,  J  cups  boiling  water,  2  cups 
flour,  3  teaspoons  baking  powder,  1  teaspoon  cornstarch.  Beat 
eggs  and  sugar  20  minutes,  then  add  boiHng  water,  flour,  bak- 
ing powder,  and  cornstarch.  Bake  in  layers  or  loaf. — Miss 
Helen  Wollerman. 

Potato  Flour  Sponge  Cake. 
Six  eggs  beaten  separately,  1  cup  sugar  (J  the  sugar  beaten 
with  the  yolks  and  ^  with  the  whites),  f  cup  potato  flour,  1 
teaspoon  baking  powder. — Mrs.  M.  Brockman. 

Olinda's  Sunshine  Cake. 
One  good  cup  flour,  6  eggs,  1  good  cup  sugar  sifted  3  or  4 
times.  Beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs  to  a  cream.  Beat  whites 
very  stiff,  and  add  1  level  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar,  before  quite 
finished  beating.  Add  the  sugar,  then  the  yolks  of  eggs,  1 
teaspoon  vanilla,  then  fold  in  flour.  Bake  in  very  slow  oven 
30  to  45  minutes. — Mrs.  C.  Feig.  ^ 

"Raisin  Cake." 

One  cup  brown  sugar,  ^  cup  butter,  1  cup  raisins  (ground), 
1  cup  boiling  water,  1^  cup  nuts,  1^  cup  flour,  1  egg  (not  sepa- 
rated), 1  teaspoon  baking  soda.  Mix  together  and  bake  in  a 
loaf  about  30  to  45  minutes  in  a  medium  oven. — Mrs.  E.  Ferch, 

Scripture  Cake. 

Judges  5,25 1  cup 

1  Kings  4,  22  3J  cups 

Jeremiah  6,  20 2  cups 

1  Samuel  30,  12  2  cups 

Matthew  10,  42  1  cup 

1  Samuel  25,  18  1  cup 

Genesis  43,  11  1  cup 

Isaiah  10,  14 6 

Leviticus  23,  17  2  teaspoons 

2  Chronicles  9,  9 

Psalms  19,  10 1     teaspoon 

Judges  9,  13  1     glass 

Season  to  taste.     Directions  in  Numbers  11,  18. — Mrs.  H.  A. 
Zorn. 


PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK  119 

Washington  Cake. 
One  cup  butter,  3  cups  brown  sugar,  1  cup  milk,  4  eggs,  1 
cup  raisins,  1  teaspoon  each  of  cinnamon,  allspice  and  cloves, 
3  cups  flour,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder. — Miss  G.  Jacobs. 

Watermelon  Cake. 

One  cup  sugar,  -J  cup  butter,  whites  of  3  eggs  stiffly  beaten 
added  last,  J  cup  sweet  milk,  2  cups  flour,  1  teaspoon  vanilla, 
1  teaspoon  baking  powder.  Pour  one-third  of  this  batter  into 
another  dish  and  add  1  teaspoon  of  liquid  cochineal  or  enough 
red  sugar  to  color,  and  a  handful  of  seeded  raisins.  Bake  in 
a  round  loaf  with  the  pink  in  the  center.  Ice  with  green  frost- 
ing.— Flora  Hemler. 


Chocolate  Cakes 

Chocolate  Cake. 

Cream  |  cup  butter  and  1^  cups  sugar,  add  4  yolks  of 
eggs  beaten.  Two  squares  chocolate  dissolved  in  5  table- 
spoons boiling  water,  ^  cup  milk.  If  cups  flour,  1  heap- 
ing teaspoon  baking  powder.  Lastly  add  beaten  whites  of 
eggs.     Bake  in  three  layers.     Use  butter  cream  filling. 

Chocolate  Frosting :  Two  squares  chocolate,  4  tablespoons 
hot  water  2  tablespoons  butter,  ^  cup  sugar,  -J  cup  milk,  which 
should  be  added  after  the  above  ingredients  have  been  dis- 
solved over  hot  water.  Cook  until  consistency  of  thick  cream. 
Remove  from  stove  and  beat  until  thick  enough  to  spread. — 
Mrs.  M.  E.  Guelzow. 

Chocolate  Cake. 

One-third  cup  butter,  1  cup  sugar,  J  teaspoon  salt,  J  cup 
grated  chocolate,  3  eggs,  ^  cup  milk,  3  teaspoons  baking  pow- 
der, 1  teaspoon  vanilla,  -J  cup  nuts,  ^  cup  raisins,  1 J  tablespoons 
fruit  juice,  2^  cups  flour.  Add  whites  of  eggs  last.  Bake  in 
loaf  about  45  minutes  in  moderate  oven. — Mrs.  W.  C.  Hinrichs. 


120  PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK 

Black  Chocolate  Cake. 

Put  in  double  boiler  1  egg  yolk,  J  cup  cold  water,  J  cup 
sugar,  J  cake  chocolate ;  when  thickened  add  2  teaspoons 
vanilla,  and  set  aside.  Beat  together  1  cup  sugar,  |  cup  but- 
ter, and  2  eggs,  add  |  cup  sour  milk,  1  teaspoon  soda,  2  cups 
flour.  Stir  the  two  mixtures  together  and  bake  in  layers  or 
loaf. — Miss  Helen  WoUerman. 

Eggless  Chocolate  Cake. 

One  and  one-third  cups  brown  sugar,  4  tablespoons  butter, 
1  cup  sour  milk,  1  teaspoon  soda,  J  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar, 
i  cup  cocoa.  If  cups  flour,  1  teaspoon  vanilla.  Cream  the 
butter,  add  th^  sugar  and  mix  thoroughly.  Mix  and  sift 
the  dry  ingredients.  Add  the  dry  ingredients  and  the  liquid 
alternately  to  the  butter  mixture.  Flavor  with  vanilla.  Bake 
in  a  moderate  oven  about  20  minutes. — Mrs.  A.  J.  Koehneke. 

Devil  Cake. 

One  cup  brown  sugar,  1  bar  German  sweet  chocolate 
(grated),  1  teaspoon  vanilla,  ^  cup  water;  cook  this  to  a  syrup. 
Add  1  cup  brown  sugar,  J  cup  butter,  3  eggs,  ^  cup  milk,  2 
cups  flour,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder.  Bake  in  layers  and 
use  cream  or  butter  filling. — Mrs.  Sodeman. 

Devil's  Food  Cake. 

Half  a  cup  of  grated  chocolate,  i  cup  sweet  milk  |  cup 
brown  sugar.  Boil  together  until  as  thick  as  cream,  then  let 
it  cool ;  mix  a  cup  of  brown  sugar  with  a  half  a  cup  of  butter. 
Add  2  beaten  eggs,  §  of  a  cup  of  milk  and  vanilla  flavoring. 
Mix  well,  beat  in  the  boiled  mixture  and  add  2  cups  of  flour 
sifted  well  with  2  teaspoons  baking  powder.  Bake  in  layers. 
Put  together  with  a  boiled  icing. — Mrs.  Ehlenfeld. 

Fudge  Cake. 
One  cup  sugar,  f  cup  butter,  3  eggs,  1  cup  milk,  2^  cups 
flour,  1  heaping  teaspoon  baking  powder,  J  cup  chocolate,  i 
cup  walnuts  (broken  up  coarsley)  ;  cream  the  butter  and  sugar 


PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK  121 


together,  add  the  cup  of  milk  and  then  stir  in  Ughtly  the  flour, 
in  which  the  heaping  spoon  of  baking  powder  has  been  sifted. 
Then  stir  in  the  chocolate  which  has  been  dissolved  by  plac- 
ing in  a  cup  and  setting  in  hot  water.  Add  the  nuts  and  lastly 
the  eggs,  which  should  be  beaten,  whites  and  yolks  separately. 
Fudge  Frosting:  One  and  one-half  tablespoons  butter,  J 
cup  unsweetened  powdered  cocoa,  IJ  cups  confectioners'  sugar, 
a  few  grains  salt,  J  cup  milk,  little  vanilla.  Melt  butter,  add 
cocoa,  sugar,  salt  and  milk.  Heat  to  boiling  point  and  boil 
about  8  minutes.  Remove  from  fire  and  beat  until  creamy. 
Add  vanilla  and  pour  over  cake  to  depth  of  J  inch. — Mrs. 
Albrecht. 

Ice  Cream  Cake. 

Cream  ^  cup  butter  and  1  cup  sugar,  then  the  well  beaten 
yolks  of  2  eggs ;  1  cup  milk  sift  1^  cups  flour  with  2  leyel 
teaspoons  baking  powder  and  2  teaspoons  cocoa.  Add  the  stiff 
whites  of  2  eggs.     Use  butter  cream  filling. — Clara  Steging. 

Mahogany  Cake. 

Part  1 :  One-half  cup  of  sw^eet  milk,  ^  cup  of  bitter  choco- 
late ;  boil^  together  until  thick,  then  set  aside.  Part  2 :  One 
and  one-half  cups  sugar,  ^  cup  butter,  ^  cup  milk  3  eggs, 
2  cups  flour,  1  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  a  little  hot  water. 
Mix  Part  2  thoroughly,  then  stir  in  Part  1.  Turn  in  tins. 
Bake  slowly.     Use  butter  cream  filling. — Mrs.  Piepho. 

French  Pastry  Cake. 

Two  cups  sugar,  ^  cup  butter,  3  yolks  of  eggs,  J  teaspoon 
baking  soda  dissolved  in  J  cup  sour  milk  or  cream,  J  cup 
cocoa  dissolved  in  J  cup  boiling  coffee  or  water,  let  it  cool ; 
2  cups  of  flour,  3  beaten  whites  of  eggs,  flavor,  if  desired. 

Filling :  Three  cups  powdered  sugar,  6  tablespoons  cocoa, 
6  tablespoons  butter,  6  tablespoons  coffee  or  water  boiling. — 
Miss  J.  Villna. 

Potato  Cake. 


Two  cups  sugar,  f  cup  butter,  J  cup  chocolate  melted, 


cup  milk,  2J  cups  flour,  1  cup  mashed  potatoes,  2  eggs,  2  tea- 


122  PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK 

spoons  baking  powder.  Cream  butter  and  sugar,  beat  in  eggs, 
add  chocolate,  milk,  potatoes,  then  the  flour  sifted  3  times, 
and  baking  powder.     Beat  until  light. — Mrs.  O.  Braun. 

Potato  Cake. 

One  cup  butter,  2  cups  sugar,  4  eggs,  1  cup  hot  mashed  po- 
tatoes, i  cup  sweet  milk,  5  cents  walnuts  chopped  fine,  1  table- 
spoon vanilla,  1  teaspoon  cinnamon,  1  teaspoon  nutmeg,  i  tea- 
spoon cloves,  4  tablsepoons  melted  bitter  chocolate,  2  cups 
flour,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Bake  in 
layers. — Mrs.  E.  Koretke. 

Potato  Cake. 

Two  cups  sugar,  1  cup  butter  4  eggs,  ^  cup  chopped  al- 
monds, 2  tablespoons  grated  chocolate,  1  cup  grated  raw  po- 
tato 2J  cups  flour,  1  lemon  peel,  2  teaspoons  baking  powder, 
■J  teaspoon  allspice,  ^  teaspoon  cinnamon.  Bake  in  a  slow  oven 
for  about  f  of  an  hour. — Mrs.  W.  R.  Ahrens. 

Spanish  Bun  Cake. 

One  and  one-fourth  cups  brown  sugar,  J  cup  butter,  J  cup 
sour  ceam,  IJ  cups  flour,  J  cup  raisins,  2  eggs,  1  teaspoon  soda, 
1  teaspoon  vanilla,  nutmeg  to  taste.  Use  butter  cream  filling. — 
Mrs.  Willian  Schilke. 

Tutti  Frutti 

One  cup  sugar,  -J  cup  butter,  1  tgg,  i  cup  chopped  walnuts, 
■J  cup  chopped  dates,  2  small  squares  bitter  chocolate  (melted), 
IJ  cups  flour,  1  cup  sour  milk,  1  teaspoon  baking  soda  dis- 
solved in  1  tablespoon  vinegar. — Mrs,  E.  Moeller. 

Pastry  Flour. 

Five  pounds  fiour,  2  pounds  cornstarch  sifted  5  times. — 
Mrs.  Semmlow. 


PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK  123 


Torten 


Almond  Torte. 

Nine  eggs,  f  pound  sugar,  1  teaspoon  vanilla,  ^  cup  flour, 
1  small  teaspoon  baking  powder,  f  poung  grated  almonds. 
Beat  the  yolks  of  eggs  with  the  sugar  until  light  and  creamy, 
add  vanilla,  flour,  baking  powder  sifted  with  flour.  Then 
beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs  until  stiff  and  add  grated  almonds. 
Bake  from  40  to  50  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. — Mrs  M.  C. 
Kretchmer. 

Apple  Sauce  Torte. 
A  delicious  cake  that  requires  no  baking. 

Stew  6  large  apples,  as  for  apple  sauce,  using  very  little 
water,  the  sauce  should  be  thick,  brown  6  cups  of  crumbs  from 
toast  or  zwieback  nicely  in  butter  or  lard.  Press  a  layer  of 
crumbs  in  a  cake  tin,  add  a  layer  of  apple  sauce,  then  another 
layer  of  crumbs ;  continue  until  crumbs  and  sauce  are  used. 
Allow  cake  to  stand  several  hours,  then  cut  and  serve  with 
whipped  cream. — Mrs.  Eichelkraut. 

"Blaetter  Torte." 

One  cup  butter,  3  tablespoons  sugar,  2  yolks  of  eggs,  2 
cups  flour,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder.  Cream  butter,  sugar, 
flour  and  baking  powder,  then  add  the  yolks  of  two  ^ggs. 
Line  Spring  Form  Pan  with  the  above  mixture.  Take  a 
large  can  of  shredded  pineapple,  boil  and  thicken  juice  with 
cornstarch  and  add  a  little  sugar.  Put  in  pan  and  bake  20 
minutes. 

Beat  whites  of  five  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  add  J  pound 
powdered  sugar  and  ^  pound  of  chopped  almonds;  mix  and 
spread  on  top.  Then  bake  20  twenty  more  minutes — Mrs. 
Ferch. 

Blitz  Torte. 

One-half  cup  butter,  ^  cup  sugar,  1  cup  flour,  4  tgg  yolks, 
3  to  5  tablespoons  milk,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder.  Spread  in 
two  deep  layer  tins.  Beat  whites  of  4  eggs,  add  1  cup  pow- 
dered or  granulated  sugar,  a  little  baking  powder,  and  spread 


124  PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK 

this  over  dough,  then  sprinkle  with  J  pound  chopped  almonds. 
Bake  in  a  medium  oven  20  to  25  minutes :  test  with  a  straw. 
Fill  with  a  custard  made  of  1  Qgg,  1  cup  milk,  1  tablespoon 
sugar  and  cornstarch  to  thicken. — Mrs.  Chas.  Storbcck, 

Bread  Torte. 

To  9  eggs,  beaten  well  and  separately,  add  IJ  cups  sugar; 
to  I  pound  ground  sweet  almonds  add  2  cups  bread  crumbs, 
1  teaspoon  cinnamon,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder.  Add  this  to 
the  eggs  and  sugar.  Bake  in  three  layers  from  15  to  20  min- 
utes, fill  with  a  cream  filling.  Let  one  cup  of  milk  come  to  a 
boil  then  add  yolks  of  2  eggs,  beaten  with  |  cups  sugar,  add 
3  scant  teaspoons  cornstarch  mixed  with  a  little  milk.  Cook 
until  it  thickens,  stirring  all  the  time.  When  cool  add  van- 
illa.— Mrs.  Jacobs. 

Rye  Bread  Torte. 

Six  eggs,  1  cup  sugar,  1  cup  grated  and  sifted  rye  bread, 
J  teaspoon  cinnamon  J  cup  chopped  walnuts,  a  little  grated 
lemon  peel,  -J  wine  glass  wine.  Beat  the  yolks  and  sugar 
20  minutes,  then  add  the  cinnamon,  grated  lemon  peel,  wine, 
the  grated  and  sifted  rye  bread  and  last  the  egg  whites.  Bake 
45  minutes. — Helen  WoUerman. 

Cinnamon  Torte. 

Four  tablespoons  melted  butter,  6  tablespoons  sugar,*  4 
tablespoons  milk,  1  cup  flour,  4  yolks  of  eggs,  1  teaspoon 
baking  powder.     Bake  in  spring  form. 

Custard :  Two  yolks  of  eggs,  1  cup  milk,  2  tablespoons 
sugar,  2  level  teaspoons  cornstarch,  1  teaspoon  vanilla.  Boil 
until  thick  and  let  cool,  then  put  on  cake.  On  top  of  custard 
put  stiff  beaten  whites  of  6  eggs,  to  which  add  9  level  table- 
spoons sugar,  i  teaspoon  cinnamon,  1  teaspoon  vanilla,  J  pound 
chopped  almonds.  Bake  20  minutes  more  in  slow  oven. — 
Mrs.  H.  G.  Tischer. 

Cherry  Torte. 
Make  a  dough  of  ^  pound  lard,  J  pound  butter,  4  table- 
spoons sugar,  2  teaspoons  cinnamon,  2  egg  yolks,  J  pound 


PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK  125 

flour,  J  teaspoon  baking  powder.  Work  like  a  pie  crust  and 
place  in  a  form  with  straight  sides,  bringing  dough  well  up 
on  sides  of  form.  Fill  with  following  custard :  4  eggs,  f  cup 
sugar,  I  cup  milk,  1  quart  cherries  drained  of  juice.  Bake  f 
to  1  hour  and  serve  with  whipped  cream. — Mrs.  A.  Piepho. 

Date  Torte. 

Two  eggs  beaten  light,  add  1  cup  sugar,  beat  well,  1  cup 
walnuts,  1  cup  dates  chopped,  3  tablespoons  flour,  1  teaspoon 
baking  powder.  Bake  in  square  tin  Cover  with  white  icing. 
— Mrs.  F.  Nyendorf. 

Farina  Torte. 

Five  or  6  yolks  of  eggs,  1  good  cup  sugar,  |  cup  toast 
rolled  fine,  whites  of  eggs  (stiff),  J  cup  of  Farina  with  2  tea- 
spoons baking  powder,  J  pound  chopped  walnuts.  Bake  in 
2  layers  in  hot  oven  for  10  minutes.  Whipped  cream  frost- 
ing and  filling. — Mrs.  Albrecht. 

French  Torte. 
Mix  ^  cup  butter,  3  heaping  tablespoons  sugar,  2  cups 
flour,  1  whole  egg  and  2  egg  yolks  and  1  teaspoon  baking  pow- 
der into  a  dough  and  spread  in  a  spring  form.  Spread  straw- 
berry jam  on  top  of  dough'  and  put  the  following  on  top :  -J 
pound  almonds  peeled  and  chopped,  J  pound  powdered  sugar, 
6  egg  whites  well  beaten,  and  1  grated  lemon  rind.  Bake 
slowly  1  hour. — Mrs.  H.  G.  Tischer. 

Graham  Torte. 

Cream  1  tablespoon  butter  with  IJ  cups  sugar,  2  eggs  well 
beaten,  1  cup  sour  milk  in  which  has  been  dissolved  1  tea- 
spoon soda,  34  graham  crackers,  which  have  been  rolled  or 
ground  to  crumbs,  1  teaspoon  vanilla. — Mrs.   Edw.  J.  Keuer. 

Hazelnut  Torte. 

Eight  eggs,  2  cups  hazelnuts,  ground  fine  (measure  before 
grinding),  1  pint  powdered  sugar,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder, 
grated  rind  of  1  lemon.  Beat  yolks  of  eggs  until  thick,  add 
sugar  after  grating  rind   of   lemon   on   same,   then   add   nuts 


126  •  PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK 

with  baking  powder  mixed  through  them,  and  last  whites  of 
eggs  beaten  stiff.  Bake  40  minutes  in  moderate  oven.  Served 
with  whipped  cream  or  fruit  it  is  very  good. — Hrs.  H.  W. 
Bruedigam. 

Himmel's  Torte. 
One-half  pound  butter,  J  pound  sugar,  3  egg  yolks,  ^ 
pound  flour,  1  teaspoon  baking  powder.  Bake  in  three  layers. 
When  cold  spread  layers  with  currant  jelly,  then  with  the  fol- 
lowing cream :  ^  pint  sour  cream,  2  tablespoons  sugar,  juice 
of  1  lemon,  vanilla,  2  tablespoons  flour,  2  egg  yolks.  Boil  till 
this  is  thick.  Ice  cake  with  3  beaten  egg  whites,  powdered 
sugar,  J  pound  chopped  almonds  and  a  little  cinnamon.  Beat 
well  and  spread  on  top. — Mrs.  H.  G.  Tischer. 

Hot  Lemonade  Torte. 

Yolks  of  6  eggs,  1^  cups  sugar,  1  grated  lemon  rind,  1^ 
cups  bread  crumbs  or  2  cups  cracker  meal,  J  teaspoon  baking 
powder,  j^  teaspoon  cinnamon,  ^  pound  almonds  (chopped), 
and  the  well  beaten  whites  of  6  eggs  folded  in  last.  Bake  1 
hour  and  when  done  pour  ^  cup  hot  lemonade  over  cake  with 
a  teaspoon. — Mrs.  E.  A.  Bierdemann. 

Krumble  Torte. 

Six  eggs  beaten  separately,  2  cups  sugar,  J  pound  walnut 
meats  cut,  ^  pound  dates  cut,  1  cup  bread  crumbs,  1  teaspoon 
baking  powder.  Bake  in  2  tins.  After  baked,  break  in  small 
pieces  and  pour  over  it  whipped  cream,  which  has  been  sweet- 
ened.    Bake  from  35  to  45  minutes. Mrs.  E.  J.  Keuer. 

Poppy  Seed  Torte. 

Eight  eggs  (whites  added  last),  J  pound  powdered  sugar, 
i  pound  raisins  (seedless),  J  pound  currants,  J  pound  walnuts 
(chopped),  I  pound  poppy  seed,  1  teaspoon  cinnamon,  J  tea- 
spoon cloves,  a  little  baking  powder,  grated  rind  of  1  lemon. 
Put  raisins  and  currants  through  chopper,  bake  1  hour  or 
more  if  necessary.  Must  stand  1  day  before  cutting.  Very 
good. — Clara  A.  Spangenberg. 


PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK  127 

Potato  Torte. 

Six  eggs,  i  cup  potatoes,  grated,  |  cup  rye  bread,  grated,  1 
cup  sugar,  J  wine  glass  wine  or  brandy,  a  little  citron,  allspice 
and  almonds  chopped,  a  little  baking  powder.  Bake  |  hour. — 
Clara  A.  Spangenberg. 

Prune  Torte. 
Line  the  sides  and  bottom  of  a  deep  baking  dish  with 
pastry  and  fill  the  bottom  with  soaked,  pitted  and  stewed 
prunes ;  sprinkle  over  them  sugar  to  sweeten,  mixed  with  a 
tablespoon  flour  and  bake.  When  thickened  slightly,  pour 
over  the  prunes  the  yolks  of  3  eggs  beaten  with  -J  cup  milk  and 
i  cup  each  of  cake  crumbs  and  sugar.  Bake  until  custard  is 
set ;  spread  with  whites  of  eggs  beaten  stiff  with  3  tablespoons 
sugar,  flavor,  and  brown. — Mrs.  H.  Berger. 

Sand  Torte. 

Stir  i  pound  butter  until  smooth,  then  add  the  yolks  of  6 
eggs ;  then  add  -J  pound  sugar,  J  pound  cornstarch  and  rind 
of  lemon.  Stir  15  to  20  minutes.  Mix  a  little  cornstarch  with 
1  teaspoon  baking  powder,  beat  the  whites  and  add. — Mrs. 
Jacobs. 

Sand  Torte. 

One  pound  unsalted  butter,  1  pound  powdered  sugar,  9 
large  eggs,  2  cups  sour  cream,  1  lemon,  rind  and  juice,  1  pound 
rice  flour,  2  cups  flour,  2  small  teaspoons  baking  powder. 
Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  eggs  then  alternately  the  rice 
flour,  cream,  juice  and  rind  of  1  lemon  and  finally  the  flour 
with  baking  powder.  Stir  ^  hour,  place  into  a  spring  form, 
bake  in  moderate  oven. — Johanna  Kretchmer. 

Schaum  Torte. 

Whites  of  6  or  7  eggs,  2  cups  sugar  (granulated,  sifted),  1 
tablespoon  vinegar,  1  tablespoon  vanilla.  Beat  whites  of  eggs 
to  a  stiff  froth,  add  sugar,  vinegar  and  vanilla.  Beat  this  -J 
hour.  Bake  in  a  spring  form  IJ  hours,  slow  oven.  When 
done  turn  oft'  gas  and  leave  cake  in  the  oven  a  quarter  of  an 
hour  longer.     Bake   day  before   using;   leave  in  tin.     When 


128  PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK 

ready  to  serve  take  out  of  tin  and  put  fresh  or  canned  fruit 
on  top  and  whipped  cream  over  fruit.  Grease  pan  with  but- 
ter.— Mrs.  M.  C.  Kretchmer. 


Ice  Cream  and  Beverages 

Ice  Cream. 
One  quart  milk,  1  quart  cream,  4  eggs,  whites  beaten  stiff, 
2  cups  sugar  and  vanilla  to  taste.     Pack  and  freeze. — Olga  T. 
Bohnsack. 

Vanilla  Ice  Cream. 
One  quart  whipping  cream,  1  cup  sugar,  2  eggs  well  beaten, 
flavor  with  vanilla.     Freeze. — Mrs.  F.  Nyendorf. 

Angel  Parfait. 

One  pint  cream,  ^  cup  water,  ^  cup  sugar,  3  tgg  whites, 
1  cup  English  walnuts  or  1  cup  candied  cherries.  Boil  sugar 
and  water  until  it  threads,  then  remove  from  fire  and  stir  it 
into  the  beaten  Qgg  whites ;  beat  well  and  flavor.  When  cold 
gently  stir  in  the  cream  which  has  been  beaten  stiff,  add 
chopped  nuts  or  cherries.  Pack  in  ice  and  salt  4  hours ;  do 
not  turn  the  freezer.  One-half  cherries  and  one-half  walnuts 
makes  a  delicious  substitute  for  1  whole  cup  of  either.  Fine. 
— Mrs.  William  Bohnsack. 

Lemon  Ice. 

Four  cups  hot  water,  J  cup  cold  water,  2  cups  sugar,  ^  cup 
lemon  juice,  i  tablespoon  gelatine,  1  tablespoon  yellow  rind. 
Dissolve  gelatine  in  cold  water  for  10  minutes.  Boil  sugar  and 
hot  water;  after  it  begins  to  boil  add  the  gelatine  and  lemon 
rind.  Pour  into  mixing  bowl  and  set  in  pan  of  ice  water ;  when 
cold  add  the  lemon  juice,  strain  and  freeze. — Elsa  Rauschert. 

Lemon  Sherbert. 
One   quart  milk,   1    pint   sugar,  juice  of  4  large   lemons. 
Flavor  with  lemon  extract,  pineapple  or  any  other  fruit  may 
be  used.     Freeze. — Mrs.  F.  Nyendorf. 


PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK  129 


Pineapple  Ice. 

One  can  Pineapple  (grated),  2  cups  sugar,  juice  of  4 
lemons,  1  pint  of  water,  whites  of  1,  2  or  4  eggs,  mix  and 
freeze. — Mrs.  R.  Baur. 

Pineapple  Milk  Sherbert. 

Four  cups  milk,  1|  cups  sugar,  2  cups  grated  pineapple,  ^ 
cup  lemon  juice.  Mix  the  pineapple,  lemon  juice  and  sugar. 
Add  the  milk.     Then  freeze. — Mrs.  F.  Nyendorf. 

Strawberry  Ice. 

One  quart  mashed  strawberries,  1^  pints  of  water,  enough 
sugar  to  sweeten,  about  1  cup,  juice  of  2  lemons.  Freeze. — 
Mrs.  R.  Baur. 

Grape  Nectar. 

One  pint  grape  juice,  juice  of  1  orange,  2  lemons,  J  cup 
sugar,  1  pint  water.  Mix  and  serve  ice  cold,  garnishing  with 
sliced  lemon. — Mrs.  Chas.  Hemler. 

Punch. 

Two  cups  sugar,  2  cups  water,  thin  yellow  rind  (lemon  and 
orange).  Cook  together  for  5  minutes  and  strain.  One  box 
strawberries,  wash,  mash  and  strain  through  coarse  sieve. 
Add  i  cup  sugar,  1  pineapple  grated,  6  lemons,  1  or  2  oranges, 
I  cup  strong  tea,  4  cups  water,  cracked  ice  for  serving.  This 
serve  25  people  or  25  sherbert  cups. — Lydia  H.  Bohnsack. 

Gluehwein. 

One  pint  good  red  wine,  1  cup  sugar,  1  cinnamon  stick,  6 
cloves  and  the  thinly  peeled  rind  of  1  lemon.  Let  this  come 
to  a  boil.     Serve  while  hot. — Marie  Doederlein. 

Flaxseed  Lemonade. 

Into  1  quart  boiling  water,  stir  ^  cup  whole  flaxseed,  add 
the  juice  of  2  lemons  and  sweeten  to  taste.  Let  this  come  to  a 
boil.  Put  in  tightl}^  covered  receptacle  jar  for  two  hours, 
when  it  is  ready  to  drink  either  hot  or  cold.  This  is  excellent 
for  colds. 


130  PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK 

Good  Cough  Syrup. 
Five  cent  cherry  wood  bark  ground  and  soaked  in  1  pint 
of  water  over  night.  In  the  morning  strain  and  add  5  cents 
rock  candy  5  cent  stick  licorice  chopped  fine,  and  boil  until 
thick  like  syrup.  Dose — 1  teaspoon  every  hour. — Mrs.  H. 
England. 

Jams 

Apricot  Jam. 

One  basket  apricots,  5  cups  sugar,  ^  pint  pineapple  or  1  cup. 
Wash  and  cut  apricots  and  pour  on  sugar  and  let  stand  over 
night.  Then  add  cut  pineapple  and  cook  until  thick. — Mrs. 
F.  Nyendorf. 

Blackberry  Jam. 

Boil  4  cups  of  rhubarb  until  tender;  add  8  pints  of  black- 
berries, boil  10  minutes  longer,  add  6  pints  of  sugar.  Boil  20 
minutes  and  when  cool  seal  in  glass  jars. — Mrs.  Kramer. 

Carrot  Jam. 

Three  pounds  carrots,  3  oranges,  1  lemon,  5  peaches  and  a 
little  ginger  root.  Run  carrots  and  peaches  through  a  shred- 
der. Grate  the  rind  of  a  lemon  and  of  one  of  the  oranges. 
Add  juice  of  lemon  with  the  oranges  and  peaches.  Weigh  and 
add  as  much  sugar  as  you  have  fruit.  Boil  over  a  slow  fire 
for  1  hour. — Mrs.  A.  Steging. 

Carrot  Marmalade. 

Four  cupfuls  of  grated  raw  carrots,  2  cupfuls  of  sugar,  4 
tablespoonfuls  of  lemon  juice  and  a  scant  teaspoonful  of  salt. 
Wash  and  scrape  the  carrots,  grate  or  put  through  a  food 
chopper.  Put  in  a  preserving  kettle  with  2  cupfuls  of  water 
and  boil  slowly  for  J  hour,  by  which  length  of  time  the  water 
will  have  boiled  away.  Add  the  sugar  and  boil  or  simmer 
slowly  for  1  hour;  add  lemon  juice  and  salt.  Stir  often.  Pour 
into  sterilized  glasses  and  cover  with  paraffin. — Mrs.  A.  Steg- 
ing. 


PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK  131 

Heavenly  Jam. 

One  basket  of  blue  grapes,  3  oranges,  1  lemon,  3  pounds 
sugar,  1  pound  seeded  raisins ;  slip  the  skins  off  the  grapes, 
put  the  pulp  in  kettle,  keep  from  burning,  a  few  minutes  sim- 
mering will  make  the  seed  come  out,  .put  through  colander 
to  remove  seeds,  then  add  skins.  Squeeze  juice  from  oranges 
and  put  through  meat  grinder  with  peel,  add  raisins  and 
sugar.  Mix  all  together  and  cook  20  minutes. — Mrs.  A. 
Piepho. 

Orange  Marmalade. 
Select  1  orange  and  1  lemon  with  a  thin  skin.  Cut  in  slices 
and  then  in  cubes.  To  this  add  6  cups  of  water.  Let  stand 
over  night.  Next  morning  boil  20  minutes ;  measure  liquid 
and  to  1  cup  of  mixture  add  1  cup  of  sugar.  Boil  evenly  for 
i  hour,  or  until  it  jells.  This  will  make  8  medium  sized  glasses. 
— Mrs.  Albrecht. 

Pear  Conserve. 

Five  pounds  pears,  1  quart  cranberries,  rind  of  1  orange, 
par  boiled  twice,  juice  of  2  oranges.  Put  all  through  food 
grinder  add  4  pounds  of  sugar  and  let  stand  over  night.  Next 
morning  boil  45  minutes  to  1  hour,  and  put  in  tumblers  or 
jars.  When  cold  cover  with  parafine  and  put  away  to  keep. 
— Clare  L.  Kemnitz. 

Pineapple  and  Strawberry  Jam. 

One  pineapple  cut  up  fine,  3  boxes  of  strawberries ;  boil  to- 
gether 15  minutes,  add  3  pounds  sugar  and  boil  20  minutes 
longer.  Put  in  glasses  and  when  cold  seal. — Mrs.  F.  C. 
Kramer. 

Plum  Conserve. 

One  basket  California  blue  plums,  seeded  and  put  through 
the  meat  mill,  4  pounds  sugar,  1  pound  nut  meats  (pecans), 
juice  of  3  lemons  and  4  oranges  and  the  rind;  2  oranges  put 
through  the  meat  mill.  Boil  40  minutes,  stirring  to  keep  from 
burning. — Mrs.  C.  B.  Moellering. 


132  PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK 

Raspberry  Jam. 

Four  boxes  red  raspberries  2  quarts  rhubarb,  cut  fine.  Cook 
rhubarb  to  a  pulp  without  water.  Mash  berries  and  add  to  the 
rhubarb  then  cook  ^  hour.  Now  add  2^  quarts  sugar  and 
cook  5  minutes. — Mrs.  Ed.  Pierce. 

Rhubarb  Conserve. 

Five  pounds  rhubarb,  5  cups  sugar,  1  pound  figs,  1  pound 
raisins,  1  pound  nuts,  juice  of  2  lemons.  Boil  15  minutes. — 
Mrs.  R.  J.  Frank. 

Rhubarb  Marmalade. 

Three  pounds  of  rhubarb,  3  oranges,  3  pounds  of  sugar ;  cut 
rhubarb  fine,  add  i  of  sugar,  let  stand  over  night ;  in  the  morn- 
ing cook  20  minutes,  then  add  the  chopped  oranges  and  the 
peel  of  1  orange.  Mix  all  together  and  cook  ^  hour. — Mrs.  A. 
Piepho. 

Strav^^berry  Jam. 

Take  2  quarts  berries  at  a  time,  pick  and  wash  ;  use  an 
equal  amount  of  sugar  and  berries  (judging  by  looks).  Boil 
20  minutes. — Mrs.  John  C.  Koebel. 

Strawberry  Preserve. 
Four  cups  of  strawberries,  3  cups  of  sugar,  1  cup  of  water. 
Cook  berries   and   water   19   minutes,   add   sugar  and   boil   3 
minutes  or  a  little  longer.     Seal  in  sterilized  jars.     Use  pint 
jars,  and  be  careful  to  have  good  rubbers. — Mrs.  C.  Feig. 

Elderberry  and  Grape  Jelly. 
Use  i  of  ripe  grapes  and  f  of  ripe  elderberries,  have  all  the 
stems  out,  put  them  in  a  sauce  pan,  and  place  over  the  fire 
and  let  them  cook  slowly  until  tender  enough  to  yield  all  their 
juice  freely,  then  put  it  into  a  jelly  bag  and  let  drain  until  all 
the  juice  is  out.  Then  for  each  pint  of  juice  add  1  pint  of 
granulated  sugar.  Boil  the  sugar  and  juice  together  and  stir 
until  the  sugar  is  dissolved.  Continue  the  boiling  until  a  little 
of  the  jelly  (cooled)  stiffens  on  a  saucer  and  when  it  is  partly 
cool  pour  it  into  the  jelly  moulds  and  when  cold  cover  with 
brandied  paper  to  keep  out  the  air. — Mrs.  Albrecht. 


PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK  133 

Grape  Juice. 
One  basket  grapes ;  cook  until  cooked  apart,  strain  through 
bag  then  add  1  cup  sugar,  put  back  on  stove  to  come  to  a  boil, 
then  bottle,  and  keep  in  a  cool,  dark  place.  When  serving  put 
about  J  grape  juice  in  a  glass,  then  fill  with  water. — Mrs.  A. 
Piepho. 

Paradise  Jelly. 

Two  quarts  cranberries,  15  quinces,  15  apples.  Cut  the 
apples  and  quinces  without  paring,  add  cranberries,  and  cover 
with  water.  Cook  until  soft,  then  drain  through  a  jelly  bag. 
Let  juice  boil  15  minutes,  add  sugar  and  boil  5  minutes  longer. 
Allow  1  cup  sugar  to  1  cup  juice. — Mrs.  F.  W.  Seeglitz. 


Canned  Fruits  and  Vegetables 

Canned  Corn. 

Cut  the  corn  off  the  cob  and  put  only  enough  water  with 
it  to  make  it  juicy.  Cook  ^  hour,  then  put  in  2  tablespoons 
salt  to  each  quart  of  corn,  boil  ^  hour  longer  and  seal  tight. 
When  ready  to  use,  freshen  in  a  little  water  and  let  simmer 
about  20  minutes.  Pour  off  the  water  and  put  on  milk.| — Mrs. 
G.  H.  Rausch. 

Canned  Corn. 

Six  cups  of  corn  cut  from  the  cob,  1  cup  water,  1  tablespoon 
salt,  1  cup  sugar.  Boil  20  minutes  and  put  in  jars;  seal  while 
hot. — Mrs.  F.  C.  Kramer. 

Canned  Rhubarb. 

Wash  and  peel  rhubarb ;  cut  in  about  inch  lengths.  Put  in 
double  boiler  with  very  little  water.  Let  cook  thoroughly  and 
can  while  hot.  Do  not  add  sugar  until  ready  to  use. — Mrs. 
Theo.  Doering. 

Spiced  Rhubarb. 

To  2J  pounds  rhubarb,  washed  and  cut  into  inch  pieces, 
add  1  cup  vinegar,  2  pounds  sugar,  and  1  tablespoon  each  of 


134  ^  PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK 

cinnamon  and  cloves.  Put  all  into  a  preserving  kettle  and  boil 
steadly  for  |  hour.  Put  in  jelly  glasses,  covering  the  tops  with 
paraffin. 

Canned  Tomato  Soup. 

One  peck  ripe  tomatoes,  2  medium  onions,  3  large  stalks  of 
celery;  cook  until  very  soft  and  strain  through  a  fine  sieve. 
Put  back  to  boil,  add  i  cup  butter,  J  cup  sugar,  ^  cup  flour 
(good  measure),  2  tablespoons  salt,  ^  teaspoon,  or  pinch  of 
red  pepper.  Mix  and  cook  until  thick.  Seal  hot  and  put  in 
jars.  When  ready  to  use,  put  on  to  boil,  add  a  pinch  of  bak- 
ing soda  and  1  quart  of  milk,  serve. — Mrs.  Marie  Saul. 

Pickled  Cherries. 

Pit  the  cherries  and  cover  with  cold  white  vinegar ;  let 
stand  48  hours.  Then  drain  and  put  in  layers  into  jars  or  large 
bowl,  alternating  each  layer  with  a  covering  of  sugar.  Allow 
1  cup  sugar  to  1  cup  cherries.  Let  stand  1  week  and  stir 
twice  daily  with  a  wooden  spoon.  Then  put  in  jars  and  seal. 
— Mrs.  C.  B.  Moellering. 

Pickled  Peaches. 

Two  quarts  vinegar  2  pounds  sugar,  1  tablespoon  whole^ 
cloves,  tied  in  a  bag,  when  boiling  add  peaches ;  put  1  clove  in 
each  peach.  Do  not  boil  peaches  too  soft ;  seal  air  tight. — Mrs. 
J.  Semmlow. 

Sour  Kraut. 

Twenty  large  heads  of  cabbage  make  5  gallons,  cut  out 
core  and  cut  fine,  mix  with  1  cup  of  salt,  put  several  handfuls 
in  jar  and  press  good ;  keep  adding  and  pressing,  cover  with  a 
cloth  and  press  down  so  the  scum  will  be  over  the  cloth.  It 
can  be  easily  removed,  put  in  a  plate  and  heavy  weight.  When 
you  take  out  sauerkraut  rinse  cloth  and  add  a  little  water  if 
necessary. — IMrs.  J.  Semmlow. 

The  Proper  Time  to  Can  Fruits  and  Vegetables  as  They  Come 

In  Their  Season. 

Apricots  and  Plums — August  10th  to  September  10th. 
Apples  (Pippin  are  the  best) — October  20th  to  November 
20th. 


PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK  135 

Asparagus — May  15th  to  July  1st. 

Beans — September  20th  to  October  20th. 

Lima  Beans — August  20th  to  October  15th. 

Blueberries — July  1st  to  August  5th. 

Blackberries — July  15th  to  August  25th. 

Cauliflower — September  15th  to  October  25th. 

Cherries — June  15th  to  July  1st. 

Currants — June  10th  to  July  1st, 

Corn — August  15th  to  October  15th. 

Pineapples  (Sugar  loaf  are  the  best;  over  ripe  will  not 
do)— May  10th  to  July  1st. 

Peaches  (the  late  Crawford  are  the  best) — August  20th  to 
October  5th. 

Pears — August  20th  to  October  15th. 

Peas— May  25th  to  July  1st. 

Raspberries — July  1st  to  July  25th. 

Rhubarb— May  15th  to  July  1st. 

Strawberries — June  1  to  June  25. 

Tomatoes — August  15th  October  1st. 

Fruits  and  vegetables  must  never  be  canned  when  speckled 
or  frost  bitten  and  should  always  be  kept  in  the  dark  and  at  a 
temperature  of  from  45  to  65  degrees.  Tomatoes,  strawberries 
and  vegetables  should  be  wrapped  in  brown  paper. 


Catsup,  Pickles,  Etc. 

Tomato  Catsup. 

To  1  peck  tomatoes  add  2  large  onions  and  1  handful  salt. 
Let  boil  until  soft,  then  strain  through  fine  sieve.  Put  on  to 
boil  with  2  tablespoons  white  pepper  and  1  grated  nutmeg  and 
1  pint  vinegar.  Let  boil  until  thick  about  3  hours. — Mrs  A. 
Piepho. 

Tomato  Catsup. 

Boil  1  peck  of  sliced,  unpeeled  tomatoes  with  6  white  onions 
and  cook  until  so  soft  that  they  can  be  rubbed  through  a  col- 
lander ;  strain  through  a  sieve  and  return  to  the  fire  with  3  bay 


136  PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK 

leaves,  a  tablespoon  each  of  powdered  mace,  white  pepper, 
cloves,  sugar,  salt  and  i  tablespoon  celery  seed  tied  in  a  small 
cheesecloth  bag.  Boil  for  nearly  6  hours  and  stir  frequently. 
Remove  the  bag  of  celery  seed  and  pour  in  a  pint  of  vinegar. 
Bring  again  to  a  boil  and  remove  from  fire ;  when  cold,  bottle 
and  seal. — Mrs.  Albrecht. 

My  Own  Tomato  Catsup. 

One  peck  of  good  ripe  tomatoes  cut  or,  mash,  J  pound 
mixed  spices,  tied  in  a  thin  cloth,  boil  about  1  hour,  then 
strain  and  boil  2  hours  with  same  spices.  Add  1  tablespoon 
salt,  4  tablespoons  ground  mustard,  ^  teaspoon  red  pepper,  1 
teaspoon  paprika,  ^  teaspoon  ground  cloves,  1^  cups  sugar,  2 
cups  of  vinegar.  Keep  on  stove  until  the  last  bottle  is  filled, 
be  sure  and  have  bottle  air  tight. — Mrs.  J.  Semmlow. 

Chili  Sauce. 

Six  onions,  24  ripe  tomatoes,  4  green  peppers,  3  small 
tablespoons  salt,  9  small  tablespoons  sugar.  Boil  gently  3 
hours. — Mrs.  R.  J.  Frank. 

Chili  Sauce. 

One  peck  or  ^  box  tomatoes  (red  ripe),  2  cups  onions, 
4  green  peppers  and  1  small  red  pepper  (seeds  removed). 
Grind  the  above  in  coarse  food  chopper.  One  quart  vinegar, 
i  cup  salt,  4  cups  granulated  sugar,  J  scant  teaspoon  red 
pepper  (ground)  ;  put  in  the  above.  Put  the  following  spices 
in  a  bag :  Three  teaspoons  ground  cloves,  3  teaspoons  ground 
cinnamon,  1  small  ground  nutmeg,  i  teaspoon  ground  all- 
spice, 3  teaspoons  celery  seed.  Boil  3  hours.  Put  in  glasses 
or  bottles  and  seal  at  once. — Mrs.  H.  G.  Thoms. 

Chili  Sauce  with  Celery. 

Put  through  food  chopper,  15  large  ripe  tomatoes,  4  large 
stalks  celery,  5  large  onions,  1  red  pepper,  add  8  tablespoons 
brown  sugar,  2  tablespoons  salt,  3  cups  vinegar.  Boil  about 
2  hours. — Mrs.  F.  Nyendorf. 


PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK  137 

Chili  Sauce. 

Skin  2  dozen  large  ripe  tomatoes,  add  2  green  and  1  small 
red  pepper,  2  large  onions ;  chip  fine  and  boil  until  thick.  Add 
2  cups  vinegar,  1  tablespoon  salt,  2  cups  sugar,  1  teaspoon 
ginger,  1  teaspoon  cloves,  1  teaspoon  allspice.  Boil  15  min- 
utes or  longer.  Bottle  and  seal.  Very  good. — ^Mrs.  Marie 
Saul. 

Ripe  Cucumbers. 

Leave  cucumbers  in  salt  4  hours,  after  peeling  and  cutting, 
scoop  center  with  silver  spoon,  drain  in  colander.  Boil  up  in 
J  vinegar  and  i  water,  drain  in  colander  again.  Take  2 
quarts  water,  2  quarts  vinegar,  2  quarts  sugar,  mustard  seed. 
Boil  all  well.  Add  cucumbers ;  boil  them  up.  Can  while  hot. 
In  one  or  two  days  pour  off  juice  and  boil  up  again,  pour  over 
cucumbers  again.  This  is  for  18  cucumbers. — Mrs.  Louise 
M.  Lafrentz. 

Senf  Gherkins. 

Peel  1  dozen  ripe  cucumbers,  slice  and  quarter,  removing 
all  seeds  and  pulp.  Cover  with  well  salted  water  and  let 
stand  over  night.  Rinse  well,  drain  until  dry.  To  1  quart  of 
vinegar  add  2  cups  of  sugar,  1  tablespoon  whole  mixed  spices 
in  a  cheesecloth  bag.  When  boiling  add  cucumbers,  a  few  at  a 
time.  Let  come  to  a  boil,  then  remove  to  jars;  sprinkle  with 
mustard  seed,  cover  with  liquid  and  seal.  Mrs.  Wm.  Ehlen- 
feld. 

Cucumber  Chowchow. 

One  peck  large  green  cucumbers,  4  large  onions :  chop 
fine;  salt  and  let  drain  over  night.  Squeeze  dry,  then  add  1 
pound  brown  sugar,  1  quart  cider  vinegar,  2  tablespoons  celery 
seed,  2  tablespoons  white  mustard  seed,  a  pinch  of  red  pepper. 
Let  come  to  boil  and  seal  hot. — Mrs.  Wm.   Blanchard. 

Corn  Relish. 

One  dozen  large  ears  of  corn,  12  large  white  onions,  6  red 
peppers,  medium  size  head  of  cabbage,  2  stalks  celery,  2  cups 
sugar,  I  cup  salt,  3  quarts  vinegar,  ^  pound  mustard.  Boil 
J  hour.     Can  while  hot. — Ella  Baerwald. 


138  PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK 

Corn  Relish. 

One  dozen  ears  of  corn,  cut  from  cob,  8  sweet  green 
peppers,  2  red  peppers,  1  quart  onions,  1  quart  yellow  cu- 
cumbers, 2  quarts  ripe  tomatoes,  put  this  through  food  chop- 
per, except  corn.  Small  J  cup  salt,  1  quart  sugar,  scant,  1 
quart  cider  vinegar,  1  ounce  celery  seed,  1  ounce  mustard 
seed,  2  level  tablespoons  tumeric.  Boil  40  minutes  and  seal 
in  airtight  jars.  Note :  3  yellow  cucumbers  equal  1  quart. — 
Mrs.  F.  C.  Kraemer. 

Corn  Relish. 

Twelve  large  ears  of  corn,  1  large  head  of  cabbage,  8  large 
onions,  3  small  red  peppers,  10  sweet  green  peppers.  Remove 
seeds.  Cut  corn  from  cob,  cabbage,  onions  and  peppers  fine. 
Add  3  pints  of  vinegar,  IJ  cups  sugar,  J  cup  salt.  Boil  about 
15  minutes,  then  add  corn,  mix  3  teaspoonful  mustard  with  1 
tablespoon  flour,  dissolve  in  vinegar.  Boil  about  15  minutes 
more.  Seal  while  hot.  You  may  also  add  J  teaspoon  tumeric 
if  you  have  any. — Mrs.  Semmlow. 

Dill  Pickles. 

Wash  and  scrub  medium  sized  green  pickles,  and  lay 
them  in  fresh  water  over  night.  In  the  morning  wipe  dry, 
place  in  half  gallon  jars,  alternately  with  layers  of  fresh  dill, 
which  has  been  cut  in  2  inch  pieces.  Into  each  half  gallon 
jar  place  2  small  red  peppers,  or  J  inch  ring  of  large  red  pepper, 

1  large  teaspoon  of  whole  black  pepper,  2medium  bay  leaves, 

2  slices  of  horseradish  size  of  a  quarter.  For  18  quarts  of 
pickles,  cook  6  quarts  water,  1  pound  salt,  1  level  teaspoonful 
powdered  alum.  Let  come  to  a  boil,  add  4  cups  or  1  quart 
cider  or  white  vinegar.  Fill  jars  of  pickles  with  this  boiling 
fluid  put  fresh  rubber  on  jar  and  seal  tight.  Note:  the  pickles 
will  go  through  a  fermenting  process  and  if  you  see  bubbles 
in  cans,  rest  assured  pickles  are  not  spoiled.  Will  keep  2 
years  or  more. — Mrs.  Arthur  Emde. 


PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK  139 

Mustard  Pickles. 

Two  quarts  small  pickles,  2  quarts  small  onions,  1  large 
head  cauliflower ;  soak  in  salt  water  over  night.  Put  3  quarts 
white  vinegar  on  to  boil,  to  this  add  spice  bag,  1  dessert  spoon 
paprika,  |  pound  dry  mustard,  wet  with  a  little  vinegar,  ^ 
cup  flour,  1  ounce  celery  seed,  i  ounce  mustard  seed ;  then 
add  onion,  pickles  and  cauliflower.  Boil  until  it  thickens  and 
when  nearly  done  add  1  pound  browm  sugar,  3  green  peppers, 
3  red  peppers,  cut  up  small.     Very  good. — Mrs.  W.  A.  Sass. 

Mustard  Pickles. 
One  quart  small  cucumbers,  1  quart  small  white  onions,  1 
quart  sliced  green  tomatoes,  1  quart  cauliflower  cut  in  pieces,  4 
green  peppers  cut  up,  1  pint  celery  cut  in  pieces,  1  pint  green 
or  wax  beans  cut  fine.  Make  a  brine  of  4  quarts  water  and  1 
pint  salt,  pour  over  vegetables  and  let  stand  24  hours.  Be- 
fore you  add  the  celery  and  beans  heat  them  enough  to  scald 
and  then  drain.  Mix  1  cup  flour,  4  tablespoons  ground  mus- 
tard, 1  tablespoon  turmeric  mixed  with  enough  vinegar  to 
make  smooth,  1  cup  sugar.  Add  enough  cold  vinegar  to  make 
2  quarts  in  all.  Boil  until  it  thickens,  stirring  all  the  time, 
add  vegetables  and  let  come  to  a  good  boil.  Seal  in  glass 
jars. — Mrs.  Chas.  Hemler. 

Sweet  Mustard  Pickles. 

Select  small  pickles,  soak  in  salt  water  over  night.  Dry 
each  pickle  and  pack  in  jars.  Make  a  paste  of  2  teaspoons 
mustard,  1  teaspoon  salt,  1^  teaspoons  sugar,  and  cider  vine- 
gar to  each  quart  of  pickles.  Add  this  paste  to  enough  cider 
vinegar  to  cover  the  amount  of  jars  of  pickles.  Seal  and  put 
away. — Clare  L.  Kemnitz. 

Olive  Oil  Pickles. 

Three  dozen  small  pickles,  8  onions,  J  cup  white  mustard, 
i  cup  black  mustard  seed,  1  tablespoon  celery  seed,  ^  teaspoon 
red  pepper,  ^  cup  olive  oil,  1  large  cup  sugar.  Cover  with 
white  vinegar.     Slice  onions  and  pickles  fine,  sprinkle  with 


140  PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK 

salt  and  let  stand  over  night,  then  drain  and  mix  with  other 
ingredients.  Let  stand  two  days,  stir  often  and  seal  without 
heating. — Mrs.  F.  C.  Kramer. 

Saratoga  Pickles. 
Ten  onions,  25  pickles ;  slice  and  sprinkle  salt  on  same  and 
let  stand  3  hours  or  over  night,  then  drain.  Bring  to  a  boil 
1  quart  vinegar,  1  pound  sugar,  1  tablespoon  celery  seed,  1 
tablespoon  ground  mustard,  1  tablespoon  ginger,  1  teaspoon 
turmeric.  Add  pickles  and  boil  for  5  minutes.  Put  in  jars 
and  seal. — Olga  T.  Bohnsack. 

Sliced  Pickles. 

One  peck  small  cucumbers,  30  small  onions,  4  green  pep- 
pers, 2  red  peppers.  Slice  and  soak  cucumbers  over  night  in 
strong  salt  water,  rinse  good  and  drain  in  morning,  chop  pep- 
pers. One  and  one-quarter  gallons  vinegar,  6  cups  sugar,  5 
cents  turmeric,  1  tablespoon  celery,  small  lump  :alum,  10  cents 
yellow  mustard  seed.  Boil  hard  for  5  minutes  then  add  sliced  cu- 
cumbers and  sliced  onion  and  let  come  to  a  boil. — Mrs.  Frank. 

Picalilli. 
One-half  peck  green  tomatoes,  J  peck  onions,  6  stalks  cel- 
ery, 1   large  cabbage   (all  chopped  fine)  ;  4  tablespoons  salt. 
Let  stand  24  hours,  then  drain.     Add  vinegar,  sugar,  mixed 
spices.     Boil,  but  not  long. — Mrs.  Louise  M.  Lafrentz. 

Picalilli. 
One  peck  green   tomatoes,  6  large  onions,   1   large   head 
celery,  3  cups  sugar,  1  teaspoon  each  cinnamon,  allspice,  mus- 
tard, pepper  (all  ground)  ;  3  pints  vinegar,  2  tablespoons  salt. 
Chop  or  grind  and  boil  2  huors. — Mrs.  O'Rourke. 

Pepper  Relish. 

Two  dozen  green  peppers,  2  dozen  red  peppers,  30  onions 
(medium  size),  2  quarts  vinegar,  3  cups  sugar,  6  tablespoons 
salt.  Put  through  food  chopper;  scald  in  hot  water  5  min- 
utes. Take  vinegar,  sugar,  salt ;  let  it  come  to  a  boil,  add  the 
above  and  boil  5  minutes. — Mrs.  Sodemann. 


PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK  141 

Pepper  Relish. 

One  dozen  large,  green  tomatoes,  3  or  4  green  peppers,  2 
onions  chopped  fine,  1  tablespoon  white  mustard  seed,  2  cups 
vinegar,  J  cup  brown  sugar.  Cook  all  together  until  soft. 
Salt  to  taste. — Mrs.  C.  H.  Massow. 

Relish. 

One  peck  green  tomatoes,  1  dozen  large  onions,  1  solid  head 
of  cabbage,  1  large  bunch  of  celery,  1  dozen  green  peppers, 
5  cents  celery  seed,  2  10  cent  cans  Coleman's  mustard,  1 
gallon  cider  vinegar,  1  pound  flour,  IJ  pounds  brown  sugar. 
Chop  coarse ;  make  paste  of  sugar,  mustard,  flour  and  add  to 
boiling  vinegar.  Drop  all  ingredients  into  vinegar  paste  and 
boil  a  short  time.     Use  turmeric  coloring. — Mrs.  Graser. 

Tomato  Relish. 

Four  medium  size  apples,  24  ripe  tomatoes,  8  medium  size 
onions,  6  green  peppers,  3  stalks  celery,  2^  tablespoons  salt, 

1  cup  vinegar,  1  cup  brown  sugar.  This  makes  6  pints.  Boil 
about  2  hours. — Flora  Hemler. 

Cold  Tomato  Relish. 

Scald  and  skin  1  peck  of  ripe  tomatoes.  Dice  them  or  put 
them  through  the  meat  grinder.  Add  1  cup  salt,  and  let  them 
stand  all  night.  Drain  thoroughly.  Add  2  cups  of  chopped 
onions,  6  red  peppers   (chopped  fine),  -J  cup  mustard   seed, 

2  cups  brown  sugar,  1  level  teaspoon  cinnamon,  1  level  tea- 
spoon cloves,  1  quart  of  vinegar.  Mix  well  and  seal  in  jars. — 
Mrs.  G.  Rausch. 

Green  Tomato  Pickles — Sweet. 

One  peck  green  tomatoes  sliced,  sprinkle  with  salt  sparingly 
and  let  stand  over  night,  1  dozen  good  sized  onions  sliced 
rather  coarse,  6  red  peppers  chopped  coarse,  1  cup  sugar,  1 
tablespoon  ground  allspice,  1  tablespoon  cinnamon,  1  table- 
spoon mustard,  1  teaspoon  cloves,  3  pints  good  vinegar  or 
enough  to  cover.     Boil  until  tender. — Mrs.  G.  H.  Rausch. 


142  PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK 

Green  Tomato  Pickle. 
Four  quarts  green  tomatoes,  8  large  onions,  1  quart  vine- 
gar, 2  cups  granulated  sugar,  1  tablespoon  salt,  1  tablespoon 
pepper,  1  tablespoon  ground  mustard,  2  teaspoons  whole  all- 
spice, 2  teaspoons  whole  cloves,  1  teaspoon  mace.  Peel  and 
slice  onions,  and  slice  but  do  not  peel  the  tomatoes.  Dissolve 
the  sugar  in  the  vinegar  and  pour  the  syrup  over  the  toma- 
toes, onions  and  spices.  Heat  gradually  and  simmer  until  the 
vegetables  are  tender,  stirring  every  now  and  then  to  prevent 
scorching. — Mrs.  Albrecht. 

Chopped  Green  Tomato  Pickle. 

One-half  peck  green  tomatoes  (chopped  coarse),  5  or  10 
cents  onions,  4  green  peppers  and  1  red  pepper  (seeds  re- 
moved). Then  put  1  cup  salt  over  all  and  let  stand  over  night. 
In  the  morning  squeeze  through  cloth.  Put  on  to  heat.  Throw 
in  3  pints  water  and  vinegar,  half  and  half.  Then  squeeze 
through  cloth  again.  Then  put  3  pints  more  vinegar  on  to 
boil  with  some  whole  cloves  and  cinnamon  in  a  bag,  and  IJ 
pounds  brown  sugar  and  3  cents  mustard  seed.  When  this 
begins  to  boil  add  chopped  pickles  and  8  German  celery  roots 
peeled  and  chopped.  Heat  all  through  and  put  in  jars.  Celery 
root  must  be  boiled  in  a  little  water  after  being  peeled,  then 
chopped.  Also  add  water  in  which  celery  was  boiled. — Mrs. 
H.  G.  Thoms. 


Candies 


Butter  Scotch  Candy. 
Five  tablespoons  molasses,  4  tablespoons  sugar,  4  table- 
spoons water,  2  tablespoons  butter ;  let  boil  until  (when  drop- 
ping a  little  in  cold  water  it  will  be  brittle).  Put  in  a  pinch 
of  soda  before  taking  off  the  stove,  pour  on  buttered  plates 
and  when  cool  enough  mark  in  squares. 

Chocolate  Caramels. 
One  cup  grated  chocolate,  1  cup  milk,  1  cup  sugar,  1  cup 
molasses,  piece  of  butter  size  of  an  egg.     Boil  until  it  drops 


PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK  143 


hard ;  pour  in  buttered  dish  and  before  it  cools  mark  off  in 
square  blocks. 

Maple  Caramels. 

One  pound  of  maple  sugar  melted  in  a  cup  of  sweet  milk, 
add  1  tablespoon  butter;  boil  until  when  a  little  is  dropped  in 
cold  water  it  will  be  almost  brittle.  Turn  out  on  buttered 
plates,  and  when  cool  enough  mark  in  squares.^Hannah  Al- 
brecht. 

Cream  Candy. 

Two  cups  white  sugar,  1  cup  light  brown  sugar,  ^  cup 
vinegar,  -J  cup  water;  boil  as  you  would  molasses  candy.  A 
few  minutes  before  taking  it  off  the  stove  add  1  tablespoon 
baking  powder.  Flavor  with  vanilla.  Cool  and  pull. — Han- 
nah Albrecht. 

French  Cream  Candy. 

Take  2  pounds  of  confectioners'  sugar,  whites  of  3  eggs 
well  beaten,  2  tablespoons  milk.  Mix  all  together  with  hands. 
Make  small  balls  ;  roll  with  hands.  When  still  soft  add  a  pecan, 
or  walnut,  candied  cherry,  stuff  dates  with  same,  roll  an 
almond  in  same,  let  the  rest  lay  an  hour  or  more  on  paraffin 
paper,  then  dip  in  melted  bitter  chocolate. — Mrs.  Louise  M. 
Lafrentz. 

Dream  Candy. 

Two  cups  granulated  sugar,  |  cup  Karo  syrup,  ^  cup  boiling 
water,  1  cup  English  walnuts,  whites  of  2  eggs,  beaten  stiff, 
vanilla.  Boil  sugar,  syrup  and  water  until  a  little  hardens  in 
cold  water.  Add  this  slowly  to  the  beaten  whites,  then  add 
vanilla  and  nut  meats  and  pour  on  a  buttered  dish.  Cut  in  • 
squares. — Johanna  Kretchmer. 

Fig  Candy. 

Boil  until  it  colors  J  cup  water,  1  cup  sugar.  Do  not  stir 
while  boiling  but  just  before  taking  from  the  stove  stir  in 
I  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar.  Dip  the  figs  in  this  syrup  and  lay 
on  buttered  plates  to  dry. — Hannah  Albrecht. 


144  PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK 

Fudge. 
Two  cups  sugar,  1  cup  milk,  2  tablespoons  cocoa.  Boil 
until  it  reaches  the  "soft  ball"  stage,  then  take  from  fire  and 
add  vanilla  and  a  heaping  tablespoon  of  butter.  Set  pan  into 
a  pan  of  cold  water  and  beat  until  it  begins  to  snap.  Pour  into 
buttered  tins  and  cut  into  squares. — Mrs.  H.  A.  Zorn. 

Divinity  Fudge. 
Two  cups  sugar,  J  cup  water,  2  egg  whites,  1  teaspoon 
vanilla,  i  pound  dates  cut  fine.  Boil  sugar  and  water  until 
it  begins  to  spin  a  thread.  Pour  slowly  over  the  beaten  whites 
of  eggs,  whipping  until  the  mixture  begins  to  harden.  Add 
vanilla  and  dates.  Spread  on  buttered  tins  and  cut  into 
squares  when  cold. — Mrs.  H.  A.  Zorn. 

Marshmallow  Fudge. 

One  cup  cream,  2  cups  sugar,  2  squares  bitter  chocolate, 
pinch  of  salt.  Boil  until  a  little  dropped  in  cold  water  forms 
a  soft  ball.  Then  set  aside  for  3  minutes  on  back  of  stove. 
Butter  a  platter  and  cut  about  a  dozen  marshmallows  in  small 
pieces  to  cover  the  bottom  of  the  platter.  Take  fudge  from 
stove,  beat  for  several  minutes  and  pour  over  marshmallows. 
When  cool,  cut  into  squares. — Johanna  Kretchmer. 

Marshmallow  Candy. 
Soak  J  pound  granulated  gum  arable  in  ^  pint  water  until 
dissolved ;  this  is  best  done  by  standing  the  covered  bowl  in 
a  pan  of  hot  water  on  the  coolest  part  of  the  stove  and  stirring 
occasionally.  Strain  and  put  in  a  saucepan  with  ^  pound 
powdered  sugar,  set  over  hot  water  and  stir  over  the  fire  until 
the  mixture  becomes  thick  and  white;  test  by  dropping  a  liitle 
into  cold  water;  when  it  forms  a  firm  ball  take  from  iire 
and  stir  it  into  the  whites  of  3  stiffly  beaten  eggs.  Bea"  for 
three  minutes ;  flavor  with  vanilla  or  orange  flower  water  and 
pour  it  into  a  pan  which  has  been  thickly  dusted  with  corn- 
tarch  and  of  such  size  that  the  paste  will  be  in  a  layer  one 
inch  thicck.     Stand  in  a  cool,  dry  place  over  night,  then  turn 


PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK  145 

out.     Cut  into  squares,  dust  with  confestioners'  sugar  or  corn- 
starch.— Hannah  xA.lbrecht. 

Molasses  Candy. 

Two  cups  molasses,  1  cup  sugar,  1  tablespoon  vinegar,  a 
piece  butter  size  of  a  walnut.  Boil  constantly  for  20  minutes, 
stirring  all  the  time.  When  cool  enough,  pull  it  quickly  till  it 
is  white. — Hannah  Albrecht. 

Peanut  Candy. 

Two  small  bags  of  peanuts,  ^about  10  cents  worth,  fresh 
roasted.  Shell  and  chop  fine  in  wooden  bowl.  Measure,  then 
take  exactly  the  same  amount  of  granulated  sugar.  Melt  with- 
out water  and  soon  as  it  becomes  liquid  (not  allowing  it  to 
cook),  turn  in  the  nuts.  Stir  a  moment,  then  put  on  a  dripping 
wet  bread  board,  and  roll  with  a  wet  rolling  pin  very  thin. — 
Mrs.  R.  Albrecht. 

Taffy. 

Melt  in  a  new  pan  3  ounces  butter,  1  pound  moist  sugar. 
Stir  well  over  a  slow  fire;  boil  15  minutes.  Pour  out  on  a 
buttered  dish  and  mark  in  squares. — Hannah  Albrecht. 

Sea  Foam. 

Three  cups  light  brown  sugar,  1  cup  water,  1  tablespoon 
vinegar.  Let  come  to  boil  slowly,  stir  only  till  sugar  is  dis- 
solved ;  boil  to  the  soft  ball  stage.  Take  ofif,  and  when  it  stops 
bubbling  beat  in  2  stiffly  beaten  e:gg  whites  and  1  teaspoon 
vanilla.  Beat  till  it  will  hold  its  shape,  then  stir  in  quickly  1 
cup  finely  chopped  nuts.  Drop  in  small  pieces  on  oiled  paper 
or  pour  into  pan  and  cut  in  squares. — Miss  M.  Schneider. 

Sauerkraut  Candy. 

Boil  2  cups  brown  sugar,  f  cup  sweet  milk,  butter  size  of 
walnut,  till  it  forms  a  soft  ball  in  water.  Remove  from  fire, 
beat  to  a  soft  cream  and  add  i  pound  cocoanut.  Mix  well. 
Drop  by  spoonfuls  on  buttered  paper. — Alicia  K.  Steinhoif. 


146  PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK 


Miscellaneous 


Worth  Knowing. 

Stewed  chicken  without  mashed  potatoes,  and  pork  without 
apple  sauce  lose  half  their  zest. 

Fried  onions  fairly  cry  aloud  for  a  juicy  beefsteak,  and 
roast  beef  without  potatoes,  browned  under  the  meat,  never 
taste  quite  the  same. 

Potatoes  are  an  accommodating  sort  of  vegetable.  They 
are  good  with  all  meats. 

With  roast  meats,  sweet  potatoes  are  appropriate,  as  are 
squash,  tomatoes,  asparagus  and  stewed  onions. 

Baked  macaroni  is  a  fitting  accompaniment  to  a  roast,  so 
are  brussels  sprouts  and  scalloped  or  creamed  cauliflower. 

Celery  should  never  be  omitted  when  serving  poultry. 

Turnips,  carrots,  parsnips  and  cabbage  are  generally  eaten 
with  boiled  meats.  White  peas,  beets,  beans,  corn  and  toma- 
toes are  good  with  either  boiled  or  roasted  meats. 

Squabs  and  all  game  have  lettuce  with  French  dressing 
served  with  them  and  lettuce  must  be  eaten  with  Virginia 
ham. 

Measuring  Without  Scales. 

The  following  table  will  be  found  convenient  when  you  are 
without  scales : 

One  fluid  ounce  contains  two  tablespoonfuls. 

One  dram,  or  sixty  drops  make  a  teaspoonful. 

One  rounded  tablespoonful  of  granulated  sugar  or  two 
of  flour  or  powdered  sugar,  weigh  one  ounce. 

One  liquid  gill  equals  four  fluid  ounces. 

One  fluid  ounce   (one-quarter  gill)   equals  eight  drams. 

A  piece  of  butter  as  large  as  a  small  egg  weighs  two  ounces. 

Nine  large  or  twelve  small  eggs  weigh  one  pound  without 
shells. 

One  level  teacup  of  butter  or  granulated  sugar  weighs  half 
a  pound. 

One  quart  sifted  flour  (well  heaped)  weighs  one  pound. 


PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK  147 


A  common  sized  tumbler  holds  about  one-half  pint. 
Four  cups  liquid  equals  one  quart. 

— C.  M.  R. 

Table  of  Measures. 

16  saltspoons — 1  teaspoon. 

3  teaspoons — 1  tablespoon, 
16  tablespoons — 1  cup. 

2  cups — 1  pint. 
2  pints — 1  quart. 

4  quarts — 1  gallon. 

— Lydia  Bohnsack. 

Cake  Hints. 

A  good  pinch  of  salt  improves  any  cake. 

Half  water  instead  of  all  milk  makes  a  lighter  cake. 

If  your  cake  rises  in  a  mountain  in  the  middle  the  reason 
is  your  dough  was  too  thick. 

If  it  goes  down  in  the  middle  your  dough  was  too  rich,  too 
much  sugar. 

The  cause  of  large  holes  in  cake  is  too  much  baking  powder. 

A  pan  of  water  in  the  bottom  of  the  oven  keeps  the  bottom 
of  cake  from  burning. 

Uses  of  Vinegar. 

One-half  teaspoonful  of  vinegar  added  to  the  cold  water 
used  to  mix  the  dough  of  pie  crust  or  (lemon  juice  if  preferred) 
makes  flaky  pies. 

A  teaspoonful  of  vinegar  added  to  the  water  in  which  beef 
is  either  boiled  or  roasted  means  more  tender  meat. 

A  teaspoon  vinegar  added  to  the  water  when  cooking  string 
beans  makes  them  tender  more  rapidly. 

Stains  Removed. 

Iron  rust,  remove  by  applying  salt  and  lemon  juice  to  the 
dampened  spots,  place  in  the  sun  or  near  the  fire  ten  minutes. 
Rinse  thoroughly. 


148  PILGRIM  COOK  BOOK 

Mildew. 

Common  soap  application  followed  by  one  of  starch  rubbed 
in  thoroughly.     Lay  in  sun  for  several  hours  then  wash. 

Paint  Stains. 

Turpentine  takes  out  paint  stains. 

Ink  Spots. 

An  application  of  equal  parts  of  citric  acid  (lemon)  and 
cream  of  tartar  melted,  mix  and  rub  gently  over  stains.  Then 
wash. 

Grass  Stains. 

Rub  alcohol  on  spots  before  washing.  For  tar  or  grease, 
rub  on  butter  or  lard,  then  wash  in  cold  soap  suds. 

To  Clean  Black  Leather,  Furniture  or  Automobile  Seats. 

Five  cents  benzine ;  five  cents  boiled  linseed  oil ;  three 
tablespoonsfull  of  lamp  black.  Mix  thoroughly  and  rub  in 
well. 

Mrs.  O.  A.  Kleppisch. 


Ji^OJ^    'Vcr-=«^ 


*  '_^^^^ 


/yy~-^unyy^^^  '^YV-'OiAJiy^   .X2^<rL> 


TTOv^ 


^tSixuU^ 


Y^;UUiJ=^ 


i 


UNIVERSITY  OF  ILLINOIS-URBANA 


3  0112  044105242 


It 


NORTHWESTERN      RUBUISMINQ     MOUSE.     PRINT,     MIUWAUKee 


«• 


3  0112  044105242 


^ 


