THREE  MEALS-ADAT  SERIES 


POTATOES 

FOR 

BREAKFAST, 
DINNER.  SUPPER 


S'”  j ; fflglK ' 

BESSIE  R.  MURPHY 


The  MARTIN  ROWAN  CHAFFIN 
Collection  of  Public  School 
Text-Books 

PRESENTED  TO 

Du\e  University  Library 


By  his  grandchildren  in  honor  of  M. 
R.  Chaffin,  who  taught  public  school 
in  Davie  and  Yadkin  counties  for  a 
number  of  years  beginning  in  1850,  and 
in  honor  of  his  father,  William  Owen 
Chaffin,  who  first  taught  a North 
Carolina  public  school  in  1843,  in 
Yadkin  county. 

For  the  especial  use  of  the  Department  of  Education 
and  of  the  Durham  county  and  city  teachers. 

DATE  Q Aw  t V 


THREE-MEALS-A-DAY  SERIES 


POTATOES 


BREAKFAST,  DINNER,  SUPPER 


Compiled  and  Edited  By 

BESSIE  R.  MURPHY 

Southern  Food  Expert  and  Lecturer 


sT  > ...  . 

f/USl 


RAND  M ELY  AND  COMPANY 
CHICAGO  NEW  YORK 


Copyright,  1020,  by 
Rand  McNally  & Company 


A-20 


■JUN  2 8 1924 

& 


{ A 1 rf 
IP  * \ ^ 

h/i  a n ? C 

i V i i / fv  V" 


Dedicated  to 

SOMEBODY  SOMEWHERE 
To  be  used  by 

EVERYBODY  EVERYWHERE 


p /nsi 


Cookery  ....  means  the  econ- 
omy of  your  great-grandmothers,  and 
the  science  of  modern  chemists;  it 
means  much  tasting  and  no  wasting; 
it  means  English  thoroughness,  and 
French  art,  and  Arabian  hospitality ; 
and  it  means,  in  fine,  that  you  are 
to  be  perfectly  and  always  “ ladies ” 
— I oaf -givers. 


Ruskin 


THE  INTRODUCTION 

This  little  series  of  books  is  a collection  of  tested  and 
economical  recipes  for  everyday  foods  that  are  obtainable 
everywhere  and  suitable  for  any  of  the  three  meals  of  the 
day.  These  recipes  are  written  in  plain,  everyday  terms. 
They  are  not  all  original  — the  authors  of  many  of  them 
are  unknown.  They  form  just  a little  series  of  everyday 
books  for  everybody  from  everywhere. 

The  World  War  gave  every  homemaker  an  opportunity 
to  realize  the  difference  between  use  and  abuse  of  foods. 
For  years  we  have  wasted  much  of  the  bountiful  supply  of 
food  produced  by  our  country.  Let  us  then  not  go  back- 
ward, but  let  us  go  forward,  bending  every  energy  to  make 
lasting  the  benefit  in  health  and  economy  gained  from  a 
diet  that  not  only  eliminates  extravagance  and  waste  in 
buying  and  serving,  but  also  affords  greater  variety. 

The  recipes  in  this  series  call  for  flour,  sugar,  and  butter. 
To  conserve  these  three  foods  just  as  long  as  our  country 
and  the  peoples  of  Europe  need  them  is  the  loyal  and 
patriotic  duty  of  — not  the  other  fellow  — but  you. 

Measurements 

All  measurements  should  be  accurate  to  insure  success. 

A standard  measuring  cup  is  equal  to  % pint. 

All  measures  are  leveled. 

For  F2  spoon  divide  with  knife  lengthwise. 

For  X spoon  divide  with  knife  crosswise. 

For  y&  spoon  divide  with  knife  crosswise. 


VI 


THE  INTRODUCTION 


Substitutes 

The  same  substitutes  are  not  obtainable  in  every  state, 
and  for  this  reason  the  following  tables  are  given.  You  may 
use  the  ones  to  be  obtained  in  your  community. 

FLOUR 

For  i cup  of  wheat  flour,  substitute : 
cups  barley 
yi  cup  buckwheat 
i “ com  flour 

i “ “ meal 

i “ “ starch 

i “ peanut  flour 
y “ potato  flour 
yi  “ rice  flour 

i y2  cups  rolled  oats 
T/%  cup  soy-bean  flour 
i cups  sweet-potato  flour 

SUGAR 

For  i cup  of  sugar,  use: 

i yi  cups  com  simp 
“ honey 

1^2  “ maple  simp 

“ molasses 

BUTTER 

In  place  of  one  cup  of  butter,  use : 
i cup  oleomargarine 
24  cup  chicken  fat 
yi  cup  clarified  drippings 
yi  cup  solid  vegetable  fat,  such  as  Crisco 
yi  cup  cottonseed  oil 
34"  cup  peanut  oil 
Yt  cup  com  oil 


POTATOES 


To  many  people  the  term  potato  means  only  the  Irish 
potato,  and  to  them  it  may  be  somewhat  surprising  to  learn 
that  the  Irish  potato  is  usurping  the  family  name. 

The  sweet  potato  was  introduced  into  Europe  much 
earlier  than  the  white  potato,  and  was  so  commonly  grown 
and  used  as  food  that  when  the  white  potato  appeared  it 
received  its  name  from  a corruption  of  the  native  name  of 
the  sweet  potato  — batata. 

This  little  book  will  use  the  term  potato  in  a general 
way,  and  the  Irish  potato  will  be  given  its  proper  place 
in  the  family,  as  the  youngest  member. 

IRISH  POTATOES 

ORIGIN  AND  USE 

Origin.  The  white  potato,  generally  known  as  the  Irish 
or  English  potato,  was  first  used  as  a food  by  the  Indians  of 
South  America  and  was  not  known  elsewhere  until  after 
the  discovery  of  America  by  Columbus.  The  potato  was 
introduced  into  Europe  by  the  Spaniards,  who  took  it  to 
England.  Later  it  was  brought  to  Virginia,  and  from 
Virginia,  Sir  John  Hawkins  took  it  back  to  Ireland.  Sir 
Walter  Raleigh  introduced  the  potato  into  England  a second 
time,  advocating  its  use  as  a food. 

But,  in  spite  of  its  easy  cultivation,  rich  yield,  and 
delightful  flavor,  the  potato  failed  to  receive  a very  warm 
welcome.  It  was  cultivated  only  as  a garden  curiosity, 
and  was  thought  by  many  to  be  poisonous. 


2 


THREE-MEALS-A-DAY  SERIES 


As  a food  the  potato  was  first  used  only  for  cattle. 
Later,  during  a great  grain  famine  in  Ireland,  it  was  used 
so  extensively  as  a food  for  the  poor  that  it  was  given  the 
name  “Irish  potato”  in  order  to  distinguish  it  from  the  sweet 
potato  then  in  general  use  in  England. 

Food  value.  Among  the  carbohydrate  foods  producing 
heat  and  energy  Irish  potatoes  rank  next  to  cereals.  One 
medium-sized  potato  contains  as  much  starch  as  two  slices 
of  bread.  Irish  potatoes  also  contain  potash  and  other 
important  mineral  salts  which  are  valuable  as  food.  They 
are,  however,  deficient  in  both  protein  and  fat  and  should, 
therefore,  be  eaten  with  milk,  eggs,  meat,  or  some  form  of  fat. 

How  to  buy  Irish  potatoes.  It  is  not  always  easy  to 
judge  a potato  from  its  appearance,  yet  there  are  a few 
certain  characteristics  that  will  aid  in  making  a choice. 

Never  buy  extra  large  potatoes;  they  are  hard  to  cook 
and  vary  in  texture.  Buy  medium-sized  ones. 

Potatoes  with  few  eyes  are  much  more  economical  than 
irregular  ones,  because  they  can  be  peeled  without  waste. 

Watery  potatoes  are  undesirable.  If  large  and  soft, 
they  will  be  soggy  when  cooked.  A good  meaty  potato 
should  feel  firm  when  pressed  in  the  hand. 

Special  care  should  be  taken  in  storing  a supply  of  pota- 
toes. They  should  not  be  permitted  to  sprout,  and  they 
should  not  be  exposed  to  the  sun  or  strong  light,  because  a 
poisonous  substance  called  solanin  will  develop  in  or  near 
the  skin  when  they  are  thus  exposed. 

How  to  cook  Irish  potatoes.  No  other  food  is  served  that 
can  be  so  unattractive  and  unappetizing  as  wet,  soggy, 
lumpy,  Irish  potatoes ; but  if  property  cooked  and  seasoned, 
they  are  most  appetizing.  As  in  many  other  vegetables, 
the  valuable  mineral  salts  lie  very  close  to  the  skin ; therefore 


POTATOES 


3 


much  of  this  mineral  content  is  lost  when  the  potato  is 
peeled.  Hence  the  Irish  potato  should  be  cooked  with  the 
skin  on  in  order  that  the  greatest  benefit  may  be  obtained. 

Potatoes  cooked  in  dry  heat,  such  as  when  baked,  roasted, 
or  steamed  with  the  skins  on,  have  a more  pronounced 
flavor  and  are  more  savory  than  if  cooked  in  water,  but 
they  must  be  served  as  soon  as  cooked  or  they  become  soggy 
and  poor  in  flavor.  If,  after  they  are  cooked,  potatoes  are 
kept  in  a closely  covered  vessel,  or  with  the  skins  unbroken, 
they  will  also  become  soggy  and  have  a rank  flavor;  but  if 
the  skins  are  broken  and  the  vessel  ventilated,  the  potatoes 
may  be  kept  warm  a long  time  without  their  flavor  being 
injured, 

IRISH  POTATOES  FOR  BREAKFAST 
Irish  Potato  Yeast 

i cake  compressed  yeast  i pint  sliced  potatoes 
>2  pint  flour 

Boil  the  potatoes  in  i quart  of  water;  when  they  are 
done  save  i pint  of  the  water  and  pour  it  over  the  flour 
and  mashed  potatoes  boiling  hot.  Stir  until  smooth,  add 
i pint  of  cold  water,  lastly  the  yeast,  which  has  been 
soaking  in  lukewarm  water  while  potatoes  were  cooking. 
Let  mixture  stand  in  a warm  place  until  foam  rises  on 
the  top.  Pour  into  glass  jars,  cover  closely,  and  place  in 
refrigerator.  The  yeast  will  keep  for  io  days. 

Irish  Potato  Bread 

6 quarts  flour  i tablespoon  each  of 

i quart  hot  water  lard,  salt,  and  sugar 

i pint  yeast 

To  make  3 loaves  of  bread,  mix  the  above  ingredients, 
let  them  rise  twice,  then  make  into  loaves  and  let  them 


4 


THREE-MEALS-A-DAY  SERIES 


rise  again.  Take  out  i quart  of  the  flour  with  which  to 
work  the  bread.  When  loaves  are  removed  from  the  oven, 
take  them  out  of  the  pan  and  tilt  them  on  edge  in  order 
to  secure  a free  circulation  of  air.  It  is  better  not  to  cover 
bread  while  it  is  warm. 


Irish  Potato  Corn  Meal  Muffins 
i egg  i cup  sweet  milk 

i cup  hot  mashed  potatoes  i cup  com  meal 
2 teaspoons  baking  powder 

Mix  ingredients  in  the  order  given.  Pour  batter  into 
well-greased  muffin  pans  and  bake  in  moderate  oven. 


Irish  Potato  Rolls 


cups  mashed  potatoes 
y cup  rolled  oats 
y tablespoon  sugar 
tablespoons  fat 
3 cups  flour 


3 teaspoons  salt 
iRj  cups  liquid 
(y  cup  milk  and 
y cup  water) 
i yeast  cake 


Bring  liquid  to  scalding  point.  Add  fat,  salt,  sugar,  and 
oatmeal  (which  has  been  ground).  Let  mixture  stand 
until  it  is  lukewarm.  Add  yeast  cake  softened  in  a little 
cold  water,  mashed  potatoes,  and  enough  flour  to  make 
a stiff  dough.  Knead,  let  dough  rise,  shape,  let  dough  rise 
again,  and  bake  in  greased  muffin  tins. 


Irish  Potato  Biscuit 
i cup  mashed  potatoes  i tablespoon  butter 

i cup  flour  i tablespoon  lard 

4 teaspoons  baking  powder  y cup  milk  (scant) 
y teaspoon  salt 

Sift  the  dry  ingredients.  Add  these  to  the  potatoes, 


POTATOES 


5 


mixing  well.  Work  in  lightly  the  butter  and  lard.  Add 
gradually  enough  milk  to  make  a soft  dough.  Put  it  on 
floured  board,  roll  lightly  to  about  inch  thickness,  cut  in 
biscuit  shape,  place  in  greased  pan,  and  bake  in  hot  oven. 


Irish  Potato  Raisin  Bread 


i yeast  cake 

cup  warm  water 
i yi  cups  milk 
i tablespoon  sugar 
i teaspoon  salt 


lyi  cups  mashed 
potatoes 
4 cups  flour 
4 tablespoons  fat 
yi  cup  raisins 


Dissolve  yeast  and  sugar  in  lukewarm  water,  add  i 
cup  flour,  milk,  potatoes,  and  fat.  Beat  until  smooth. 
Cover  and  let  dough  rise  until  it  is  light.  When  it  is  light, 
add  raisins  that  have  been  floured,  the  rest  of  the  flour, 
and  the  salt.  Knead  lightly.  Let  dough  rise  again. 
Mold  into  loaves  (two).  Half  fill  well-greased  bread  pans, 
cover  them,  and  let  dough  rise  again  until  it  is  light.  Put 
it  into  moderate  oven  and  bake  45  minutes. 


Irish  Potato  Waffles 
t.%  cups  flour  2 eggs 

yi  cup  mashed  potatoes  1 tablespoon  melted 

yi  teaspoon  salt  butter 

1 cup  sweet  milk 

Mix  and  sift  the  dry  ingredients,  add  milk,  well-beaten 
yolks  of  eggs,  butter,  and  lastly  the  stiffly  beaten  whites 
of  eggs.  Cook  on  a well-greased  waffle  iron. 

French  Fried  Potatoes 

Slice  the  potatoes  lengthwise  about  % of  an  inch  thick 
and  let  them  remain  in  cold  water  1 hour  or  longer.  Dry 


6 


THREE-MEALS-A-DAY  SERIES 


them  in  a cloth  and  fry  in  hot  fat.  If  you  wish  them  to 
puff  up,  remove  them  before  they  are  quite  done,  drain, 
and  return  them  again  to  the  hot  fat.  Continue  frying 
until  they  are  done.  Sprinkle  with  salt  and  serve  hot. 

Dixie  Fried  Potatoes 

Slice  uncooked  potatoes  as  for  French  fried.  Dip  them 
in  egg,  then  in  bread  crumbs,  and  fry  until  brown. 

Broiled  Potatoes 

Slice  cold  boiled  potatoes  lengthwise.  Lay  slices  between 
the  wires  of  a broiler  and  cook  them  over  very  hot  fire  until 
they  are  brown  on  both  sides.  While  they  are  hot  sprinkle 
them  with  pepper  and  salt  and  a little  melted  butter. 
Serve  hot. 

Lyonnaise  Potatoes 

3 potatoes  i tablespoon  chopped 

3 tablespoons  butter  onion 

teaspoon  salt  Pepper 

Melt  the  butter  in  a hot  frying  pan,  add  the  onion,  and 
cook  until  it  is  brown.  Cut  the  potatoes  into  cubes  or 
slices,  sprinkle  with  the  salt  and  pepper,  put  into  the  frying 
pan  with  the  onion,  and  cook  until  a golden  brown. 

Irish  Potato  Omelet 

i cup  potatoes  (mashed)  3 teaspoons  milk 

3 eggs  y teaspoon  pepper 

1 teaspoon  salt 

Break  the  eggs  and  separate  the  yolks  and  the  whites. 
Beat  the  yolks  and  add  them  to  the  potatoes,  beating 


POTATOES 


7 


until  mixture  is  light  and  there  are  no  lumps.  Add  season- 
ing. Beat  the  whites  until  they  are  stiff  and  carefully  fold 
them  into  the  mixture.  Put  the  omelet  into  a well-greased 
frying  pan  and  bake  it  in  the  oven  until  it  is  brown.  Turn 
the  omelet  out  on  a hot  platter  and  serve  it  at  once. 


IRISH  POTATOES  FOR  DINNER 


Irish  Potato  Soup 


2 cups  mashed  potatoes 

1 quart  milk 

2 sliced  onions 

3 tablespoons  butter 


2 tablespoons  flour 
1^2  teaspoons  salt 
1^2  teaspoons  pepper 
i teaspoon  parsley 


Scald  the  milk  with  the  onion.  Remove  the  onion  and 
add  the  milk  slowly  to  the  potatoes.  Melt  the  butter, 
add  to  it  the  flour,  salt,  pepper,  and  parsley,  and  stir  until 
mixture  is  well  blended.  Add  this  to  the  potato-and-milk 
mixture,  then  put  the  soup  over  the  fire  and  cook  until  it 
is  thick. 


Boiled  Irish  Potatoes 

Select  potatoes  of  uniform  size,  wash  them  well,  and  put 
them  into  boiling  salted  water  (i  teaspoon  salt  to  i quart 
water).  Cook  with  the  cover  of  the  kettle  ajar  until 
potatoes  are  tender,  20  or  30  minutes,  drain  off  all  the 
water,  remove  the  skins,  and  serve  with  a little  melted 
butter  if  desired. 

If  the  potatoes  are  to  stand  any  length  of  time  before 
serving,  cover  them  with  a thin  cloth,  not  with  the  lid, 
in  order  that  the  steam  as  it  condenses  may  be  absorbed 
by  the  cloth.  If  the  steam  is  allowed  to  return  to  the 


8 


THREE-MEALS-A-DAY  SERIES 


potatoes,  the  result  is  soggy  potatoes.  For  this  same 
reason  always  serve  potatoes  in  an  uncovered  dish. 


Creamed  Irish  Potatoes 

Prepare  potatoes  as  for  boiling.  When  they  are  done, 
remove  the  skins,  and  thoroughly  mash  potatoes.  Add 
to  each  pint  of  potatoes  4 tablespoons  hot  milk  or  water, 
1 tablespoon  butter,  and  a little  salt  and  pepper.  Beat 
the  mixture  with  a fork  until  it  is  very  light.  Put  into  hot 
serving  dish  and  serve  at  once. 

Baked  Irish  Potatoes 

Select  medium-sized  potatoes,  scrub  them  well,  and  dry 
them  with  a cloth.  Grease  each  potato  with  lard.  Bake 
in  hot  oven  until  soft,  about  45  minutes.  When  potatoes 
are  soft,  press  them  between  the  fingers  to  break  the  skin 
and  allow  the  steam  to  escape.  Into  small  slits  cut  length- 
wise and  crosswise,  place  a small  piece  of  butter.  Sprinkle 
with  salt,  pepper,  and  paprika.  Serve  while  hot. 


French  Mashed  Irish  Potatoes 
6 potatoes  iY  teaspoons  salt 

Y cup  butter  1 teaspoon  paprika 

1 cup  water  2 eggs 

1 cup  milk  1 teaspoon  chopped  parsley 

Wash,  pare,  and  cut  the  potatoes  in  thin  slices.  Melt 
the  butter  and  add  it  and  the  parsley  to  the  potatoes  and 
water.  Boil  until  the  potatoes  are  soft.  Mash,  add  milk 
and  well-beaten  eggs,  and  cook  6 minutes.  Serve  in  a 
hot  dish. 


Stuffed  Irish  Potatoes 

Bake  potatoes  as  previously  directed.  Cut  them  in  half 
and  remove  the  inside.  Mash  well,  moisten  with  a little 


POTATOES 


9 


hot  milk  or  water,  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  To 
every  6 potatoes  after  they  are  mashed  and  seasoned,  add 
i well-beaten  egg.  Refill  the  potato  cases,  brush  with 
melted  butter,  sprinkle  the  top  with  grated  cheese,  and 
put  into  oven  io  or  15  minutes.  Serve  hot. 

Baked  Irish  Potato  Puff 
Take  freshly  boiled  potatoes  and  put  them  through  a 
vegetable  press.  To  every  cupful  of  the  potatoes  add  % 
cup  of  milk,  1 tablespoon  butter,  1 well-beaten  yolk  of 
an  egg,  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper.  After  mixing 
thoroughly  fold  in  the  well-beaten  white  of  the  egg.  Put 
into  well-greased  baking  dish  and  cook  in  hot  oven  until 
egg  is  cooked.  Serve  at  once. 

Irish  Potatoes  au  Gratin 
Put  layer  of  diced  boiled  potatoes  in  a baking  dish. 
Sprinkle  with  grated  cheese  and  thin  slices  of  pimentos. 
Cover  with  white  sauce.  Repeat  this  layer  until  the  dish 
is  full.  Cover  with  bread  crumbs  and  bake  in  oven  until 
brown. 

Peas  in  Irish  Potato  Nests 

POTATO  NESTS 

6 medium-sized  potatoes  1 teaspoon  salt 

3 tablespoons  butter  yi  cup  milk 

Pepper 

Wash,  peel,  and  cook  potatoes  in  boiling  salt  water 
until  they  are  tender.  Drain  well,  uncover,  and  return 
them  to  fire  to  dry  off.  Mash  well.  Add  the  butter, 
salt,  pepper,  and  hot  milk.  Beat  until  creamy. 


IO 


THREE-MEALS-A-DAY  SERIES 


PEAS  IN  POTATO  NESTS 

i can  peas  i teaspoon  salt 

3 tablespoons  butter  Pepper 

Heat  the  peas  and  remove  a portion  of  the  liquid.  Add 
the  seasoning.  Make  round  mounds  of  the  mashed  potatoes 
and  place  on  a platter.  In  the  center  of  each  mound  make 
a deep  indentation  and  fill  with  the  hot  peas. 


Shepherd’s  Pie 

Grease  a baking  dish  and  cover  the  bottom  with  creamed 
mashed  potatoes.  Add  a layer  of  cooked  minced  meat, 
fish,  or  hash,  seasoned  well  and  moistened  with  gravy  or 
meat  stock.  Cover  with  mashed  potatoes.  Bake  long 
enough  to  heat  through. 


Irish  Potato  Cottage  Pie 


i ]/2  pounds  brisket  beef 
6 medium-sized  potatoes 
i carrot 

i medium-sized  turnip 
x tablespoon  chopped 


onion 


2 eggs 

2 tablespoons  butter 
2 tablespoons  flour 
y cup  stock 
y cup  milk 
Pepper 


v2  teaspoon  salt 


Cover  the  meat  with  boiling  salted  water  and  cook 
slowly  until  it  is  tender.  Cut  it  into  small  pieces.  Wash 
carrot  and  turnip,  cut  into  cubes,  and  cook  until  vegetables 
are  tender,  then  drain.  Mix  flour  in  water  to  dilute,  add 
stock,  milk,  and  onion,  and  cook  until  mixture  is  thick. 
Then  add  beaten  yolk  of  egg  and  mix  well  and  combine  with 
the  meat  and  vegetables.  Cook  and  mash  the  potatoes, 
add  the  seasoning,  butter,  and  beaten  whites  of  eggs. 
Line  a baking  dish  with  a thick  layer  of  potatoes,  put  in 


POTATOES 


ii 


the  meat  and  vegetable  mixture,  and  cover  with  a layer 
of  the  potatoes.  Bake  until  brown. 

Carrot  Irish  Potato  Mold  with  Tomato  Sauce 

3 potatoes  | medium  2 tablespoons  butter 

3 carrots  ) size  y&  teaspoon  pepper 

1 cup  milk  yi  teaspoon  salt 

Boil  the  carrots  and  the  potatoes  and  mash  them  well. 
Put  them  through  a sieve  and  add  warmed  milk  and  butter. 
Cream  well.  Put  into  greased  mold  or  pan  and  bake  in 
hot  oven  for  20  minutes.  Remove  and  turn  out  on  platter 
and  return  to  oven  until  brown.  Serve  with  tomato  sauce. 

TOMATO  SAUCE 

1 quart  canned  tomatoes  2 tablespoons  flour 

2 tablespoons  butter  8 cloves 

Small  slice  of  onion 

Cook  the  tomatoes,  onion,  and  cloves  10  minutes.  Heat 
the  butter  in  a small  frying  pan  and  add  the  flour.  Stir 
until  mixture  is  smooth  and  brown,  then  stir  in  the  toma- 
toes. Cook  2 minutes,  season  to  taste  with  salt  and  pepper, 
and  run  through  a strainer  to  remove  the  seed. 

Baked  Irish  Potato  and  Cheese 

2 cups  cooked  potatoes  2 tablespoons  butter 

4 tablespoons  grated  X cup  mdk 

cheese  1 teaspoon  salt 

Run  the  potatoes  through  a sieve,  melt  the  butter  in 
a saucepan,  add  the  potatoes,  and  mix  well.  Then  add 
the  milk,  half  the  cheese,  and  the  seasoning.  Put  into 
well-greased  baking  dish,  sprinkle  the  rest  of  the  cheese 
on  the  top,  and  bake  in  hot  oven  about  10  minutes. 


12 


THREE-MEALS-A-DAY  SERIES 


Irish  Potatoes  and  Egg  Sauce 
2 cups  mashed  potatoes  i cup  egg  sauce 

Mix  the  mashed  potatoes  with  the  egg  sauce  and  season 
with  salt  and  pepper.  Put  into  baking  dish  and  bake  in 
hot  oven  until  brown. 


EGG  SAUCE 

i cup  milk  Salt 

A tablespoon  cornstarch  Pepper 

i tablespoon  butter  i hard-boiled  egg 

Make  a cream  sauce  by  mixing  the  cornstarch  or  flour 
with  the  melted  butter,  add  the  milk,  and  cook  until 
mixture  is  thick.  Add  the  finely  chopped  egg. 


Irish  Potatoes  with  Green  Pepper  and  Cheese 


1 green  pepper  cooked 
and  chopped 

A cup  grated  cheese 

2 cups  cooked  potatoes 
(diced) 

A cup  1 


i tablespoon  butter 
A cup  milk 
i teaspoon  salt 
A teaspoon  pepper 
i tablespoon  flour 
crumbs 


Make  a cream  sauce  of  the  flour,  butter,  and  milk,  add 
the  seasoning,  then  stir  in  the  cheese,  mixing  well.  Add 
the  potatoes  and  the  peppers.  Put  into  a baking  dish, 
cover  with  bread  crumbs,  and  leave  in  the  oven  until  brown. 


Potato  Stuffing  for  Poultry 


2 aups  mashed  cooked 
potatoes 
i egg 

i small  onion  finely 
minced 


x tablespoon  butter  or  fat 
i stalk  of  finely  minced 
celery  or  A teaspoon  celery 
seed 
Pepper 


Mix  ingredients  and  use  them  in  place  of  bread  stuffing. 


POTATOES 


13 


POTATO  SALADS 
Plain  Potato  Salad 

Wash  the  potatoes  and  boil  them  in  the  skins  until  soft. 
Drain  well,  and  when  they  are  cool,  skin  and  cut  them 
into  jE^-inch  cubes.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper  and  a 
little  onion  juice.  Serve  either  with  French  or  boiled 
dressing. 

FRENCH  DRESSING 

1 tablespoon  table  oil  yi  teaspoon  salt 

1 tablespoon  vinegar  y&  teaspoon  pepper 

or  lemon  juice  Paprika  to  taste 

Put  salt  and  pepper  in  bowl,  add  a little  oil,  and  stir 
well.  Then  add  remaining  oil  and  vinegar,  stirring  all  the 
while. 


BOILED  DRESSING 

i beat  en  egg  1 teaspoon  sugar 

1 tablespoon  butter  Salt 

}4  teaspoon  dry  mustard  Pepper 

Yz  cup  vinegar 

Put  the  butter,  sugar,  eggs,  mustard,  salt,  and  pepper 
into  the  upper  part  of  a double  boiler  and  cook  over  the 
hot  water  until  mixture  is  thick.  Add  the  vinegar  and 
continue  cooking  3 minutes.  Take  dressing  off  the  fire 
and  beat  well. 

Dixie  Potato  Salad 


6 cold  boiled  potatoes 
4 tablespoons  salad  oil 
2 tablespoons  vinegar 
Few  drops  onion  juice 


teaspoon  salt 
Pepper 

2 tablespoons  chopped 
parsley 


Cut  the  potatoes  into  small  cubes.  Make  a dressing 
by  mixing  thoroughly  the  oil,  vinegar,  salt,  and  other 


14 


THREE-MEALS-A-DAY  SERIES 


seasonings.  Pour  it  over  the  potatoes  and  allow  it  to 
remain  about  2c  minutes.  Garnish  with  parsley  and  serve 
with  cream  dressing  or  mayonnaise. 


Potato  and  Egg  Salad 

Cut  very  fine  3 hard-boiled  eggs.  Boil  4 potatoes  and 
cut  them  while  hot  in  small  cubes.  Mix  with  the  eggs 
and  add  French  dressing.  Let  salad  stand  until  cold. 
Serve  on  lettuce  leaves  with  more  French  dressing. 


IRISH  POTATO  DESSERTS 


Irish  Potato  Custard 
2 cups  riced  freshly  4 eggs  (well  beaten) 

boiled  potatoes  1 % cups  milk 

1  cup  sugar  3 tablespoons  butter 

Vanilla  flavoring 

Cream  the  sugar  and  butter.  Add  the  riced  potatoes 
and  the  well-beaten  eggs  and  the  milk.  Pour  into  well- 
greased  cups  and  bake  until  firm. 

Irish  Potato  Torte 


1 cup  butter 
i*/i  cups  sugar 
3 eggs 

2 cups  flour 

3 teaspoons  baking  powder 


1 cup  riced  boiled 
potatoes 

1 cup  grated  sweet 
chocolate 

1 cup  chopped  nuts 


Grated  rind  lemon 


Cream  the  butter  and  sugar,  add  the  beaten  yolks  of  the 
eggs,  the  riced  potatoes,  chocolate,  nuts,  grated  lemon  rind, 
and  the  flour  sifted  with  the  baking  powder.  Fold  in  the 
well-beaten  whites  of  the  eggs,  and  bake  in  3 layer-cake 
pans  in  a moderate  oven  about  20  minutes.  Put  the 
layers  together  with  any  cake  filling  desired. 


POTATOES 


IS 


Irish  Potato  Pie 
i cup  mashed  potatoes  Nutmeg 

1 pint  milk  Grated  lemon  rind 

2 eggs  Sugar 

Mix  the  mashed  potatoes,  add  the  hot  milk  and  the 
beaten  eggs.  Sweeten  to  taste  and  add  a little  nutmeg  and 
lemon  rind.  Bake  in  a deep  pie  pan  in  a moderate  oven. 


Irish  Potato  Doughnuts 


i % cups  sugar 
3 tablespoons  butter 

3 eggs 

i cup  milk 

4 teaspoons  baking 
powder 


t/2  teaspoon  each  nutmeg 
and  cinnamon 
i teaspoon  salt 
i cup  mashed  potatoes 
Flour  to  roll 


Cream  one-half  of  the  sugar  with  the  butter.  Add  the 
remaining  sugar  and  the  milk  to  the  well-beaten  eggs.  Com- 
bine the  two  mixtures.  To  the  cooled  potatoes  add  the  dry- 
ingredients  sifted  together.  Mix  thoroughly,  put  on  a well- 
floured  board,  and  roll  out  and  cut.  Fry  a few  doughnuts 
at  a time  in  deep  hot  fat. 


Irish  Potato  Cake 

*4  teaspoon  salt 


Chocolate 

yi  cup  butter 

1 cup  sugar 

cups  riced  potatoes 

2 eggs 

*4  cup  milk  x ]4  cups  flour 

Cream  the  butter,  sugar,  and  the  well-beaten  eggs.  Add 
the  potatoes  and  beat  well.  Sift  the  flour,  baking  powder, 
and  salt,  add  to  the  first  mixture,  with  enough  milk  to 
make  a cake  dough.  Pour  into  cake  pan  and  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  about  35  minutes. 


2 squares  chocolate 
6 teaspoons  baking 
powder 
1] 


i6 


THREE-MEALS-A-DAY  SERIES 


IRISH  POTATOES  FOR  SUPPER 
Irish  Potato  Puffs 

2 eggs  y^  teaspoon  salt 

1 cup  mashed  potatoes  i teaspoon  baking 

K cup  flour  powder 

Beat  the  yolks  of  the  eggs,  add  the  potatoes  and  the 
flour  sifted  with  the  salt  and  the  baking  powder.  Beat 
the  whites  of  the  eggs  very  stiff,  fold  them  into  the  mix- 
ture, and  drop  mixture  from  a teaspoon  into  deep  fat  and 
fry  a delicate  brown. 

Baked  Hashed  Irish  Potatoes 

2 cups  chopped  boiled  y$  cup  milk 

potatoes  y^  teaspoon  salt 

l/^  cup  grated  onion  Pepper 

y. i teaspoon  butter 

Wash  and  boil  potatoes  with  the  skins  on.  When  the 
potatoes  are  tender,  pare  and  chop  them  very  fine.  Put  the 
butter  and  onion  into  a baking  pan  and  heat.  Add  the 
potatoes,  salt,  and  pepper,  mixing  well.  Smooth  the  top 
and  pour  the  milk  over  it.  Bake  in  a hot  oven  until  light 
brown,  about  30  minutes.  Serve  hot. 

Cheese  Irish  Potato  Balls 

4 mashed  potatoes  1 cup  grated  cheese 

1 egg  x teaspoon  salt 

Pepper 

Wash,  boil,  and  mash  the  potatoes.  Add  the  well-beaten 
egg,  half  the  cheese,  and  the  seasoning.  Shape  into  balls 
and  drop  into  boiling  water.  When  they  come  to  the  top, 
remove  and  arrange  with  the  remaining  cheese  in  alternate 
layers  in  a baking  pan.  Bake  in  a hot  oven  until  a brown 


POTATOES 


17 


crust  is  formed.  Left-over  gravy  may  be  substituted  for 
the  cheese. 

Irish  Potato  Croquettes 
2 cups  mashed  potatoes  1 egg 

1 tablespoon  butter  Salt 

Y teaspoon  onion  juice  Pepper 

2 teaspoons  chopped  parsley  (may  be  omitted) 

Wash  and  boil  the  potatoes  and  run  them  through  a 
sieve.  Add  the  butter,  seasoning,  parsley,  and  onion  juice, 
mixing  well.  Stir  in  the  well-beaten  egg.  Form  into 
croquettes,  dip  into  beaten  egg  and  bread  crumbs,  and  cook 
in  deep  hot  fat  until  a golden  brown. 

Irish  Potatoes  and  Creamed  Codfish 

1 cup  white  sauce  Salt 

2 eggs  Riced  potatoes 

Y cup  cooked  codfish 

Add  the  beaten  yolks  of  the  eggs  to  the  white  sauce, 
then  add  the  codfish.  Rice  or  run  through  a sieve  the 
hot  boiled  potatoes.  Mash  around  small  bowls  or  muffin 
tins.  Remove  and  fill  the  cavity  with  the  creamed  cod- 
fish. Beat  the  whites  of  the  eggs,  season  with  salt,  and 
pile  lightly  on  top  of  the  codfish.  Put  into  a hot  oven  and 
brown  lightly. 

Escalloped  Irish  Potatoes 
Use  raw,  thinly  sliced  potatoes  and  place  them  in  layers 
in  a baking  dish,  each  layer  to  be  sprinkled  with  flour, 
butter,  salt,  and  pepper.  Pour  in  enough  milk  to  cover, 
and  bake  about  1 hour.  This  may  be  varied  by  substitut- 
ing grated  cheese  or  hard-boiled  eggs. 


i8 


THREE-MEALS-A-DAY  SERIES 


Irish  Potato  Surprises 


2 cups  mashed  potatoes 
X cup  cold  cooked  meat 
X teaspoon  salt 


i egg 

Bread  crumbs 
Dash  of  paprika 
i tablespoon  parsley 


yi  teaspoon  onion  juice 


To  the  mashed  potatoes,  add  the  salt,  pepper,  onion 
juice,  and  half  the  parsley.  Mix  well.  Add  the  rest  of 
the  parsley  to  the  chopped  meat  and  season  well.  Flatten 
out  a teaspoonful  of  the  potato  mixture  and  place  a tea- 
spoonful of  the  meat  mixture  in  the  center.  Fold  the 
potatoes  around  the  meat,  then  shape  into  a roll,  being 
sure  that  the  meat  is  well  covered.  Roll  balls  in  bread 
crumbs,  then  in  the  well-beaten  egg,  again  in  bread  crumbs, 
and  fry  in  hot  fat  until  a golden  brown. 


1.  Left-over  Irish  potatoes  must  not  be  piled  together, 
as  they  sour  very  quickly.  Spread  out  on  a large  dish 
until  ready  to  be  used. 

2.  To  reheat  Irish  potatoes  successfully,  several  things 
must  be  kept  in  mind:  (a)  They  must  be  heated  to  as  high 
a temperature  as  possible  without  danger  of  burning. 
( b ) They  must  be  served  hot.  (c)  They  must  be  well 
seasoned  to  make  them  savory. 

3.  Left-over  boiled  or  baked  potatoes  can  always  be 
fried  or  creamed. 

4.  Left-over  creamed  potatoes  can  be  used  by  reheating 
with  grated  cheese  in  a baking  dish. 

5.  Left-over  mashed  potatoes  can  be  used  instead  of 
dough  to  cover  meat  pies  made  from  left-over  meat. 

6.  Potato  balls  can  be  made  from  left-over  mashed 
potatoes.  Shaping  them  into  small  cakes,  roll  them  in 
flour,  and  brown  in  a frying  pan  with  bacon  drippings. 


LEFT-OVER  IRISH  POTATOES 


POTATOES 


19 


DRIED  IRISH  POTATOES 

In  many  parts  of  the  country,  owing  to  weather 
conditions  and  improper  storage,  hundreds  of  bushels  of 
potatoes  spoil  by  rotting.  To  prevent  this  waste  the 
potatoes  can  be  dried.  Blanch  the  potatoes  about  3 
minutes  in  boiling  water,  remove,  peel,  and  slice  or  cut 
into  cubes.  Dry  in  the  sun,  in  oven  of  the  stove,  or  in  a 
homemade  dryer.  When  they  are  dry,  run  them  into  a 
hot  oven  until  heated  through.  This  will  prevent  bugs  and 
weevils.  Put  into  jars  or  cans.  Soak  the  potatoes  yi  hour 
before  using  them. 

IRISH  POTATOES  IN  FIRELESS  COOKER 
Baked  Potatoes 

Wash  thoroughly  sound,  smooth  potatoes.  To  insure 
uniform  baking,  potatoes  should  be  of  uniform  size.  Use 
two  radiators.  For  medium-sized  potatoes  allow  50  min- 
utes; for  very  large  ones  allow  60  minutes. 

Boiled  Potatoes 

Wash,  pare,  and  cut  potatoes  into  pieces  of  uniform 
size.  Cover  with  boiling  salted  water  and  boil  for  5 minutes. 
Use  one  radiator  and  allow  1 hour  for  cooking.  Remove, 
drain,  and  season. 


Potato  Stew 

Cut  1 2 medium-sized  raw  potatoes  in  small  cubes.  Heat 
2 tablespoons  butter  and  mix  with  potatoes.  Season  with 
salt,  pepper,  teaspoon  paprika,  and  1 large  finely  cut 
onion.  Cover  this  with  stock  or  any  left-over  gravy  and 
place  in  cooker  for  1 hour.  Use  one  radiator. 


SWEET  POTATOES 


THE  USE  OF  SWEET  POTATOES 

Food  value.  The  sweet  potato  contains  about  9 per  cent 
less  water  and  9 per  cent  more  carbohydrates  than  the 
white  potato.  The  full  food  value  is  52  per  cent  water, 
3 per  cent  protein,  2 per  cent  fat,  36  per  cent  starch,  6 per 
cent  sugar,  the  remainder  being  mineral  matter.  These  pro- 
portions show  that  the  sweet  potato  when  well  cooked  will 
nourish  the  body  by  producing  both  heat  and  energy. 

How  to  buy  sweet  potatoes.  Select  firm,  fresh-looking 
sweet  potatoes,  not  the  old  and  shriveled  roots.  Do  not 
select  very  large  ones,  but  those  that  are  medium  sized  and 
smooth.  Frequently  when  potatoes  are  cut  the  flesh  will 
turn  dark  green.  This  is  due  to  the  fact  that  the  potato 
was  unripe  when  marketed. 

How  to  cook  sweet  potatoes.  It  is  generalfy  believed  that 
anyone  can  cook  sweet  potatoes,  all  that  is  necessary  being 
to  wash  them,  put  them  into  the  oven  — usually  while  some- 
thing else  is  cooking  — and  let  them  cook  from  10  minutes 
to  half  a day,  or  as  long  as  the  fire  lasts.  This  is  a great 
mistake.  If  the  sweet  potato  is  not  properly  cooked,  the 
delicate  flavor  is  lost  and  it  is  a very  unsatisfactory  food. 
Baking  preserves  the  flavor  better  than  steaming,  and 
steaming  is  better  than  boiling.  In  baking  sweet  potatoes 
do  not  cook  too  quickly.  To  preserve  the  flavor  they 
should  be  cooked  in  an  even  oven  for  1 hour. 


20 


POTATOES 


21 


SWEET  POTATOES  FOR  BREAKFAST 
Fried  Sweet  Potatoes 

Wash,  peel,  and  cut  sweet  potatoes  into  slices  lengthwise. 
Put  them  into  hot  bacon  drippings  and  fry  slices  on  both 
sides  until  brown.  Serve  hot. 


Browned  Sweet  Potatoes  and  Bacon 
Boil  medium-sized  sweet  potatoes  45  minutes.  Peel  them 
and  cut  in  half  lengthwise.  Put  them  into  baking  pan  and 
baste  with  bacon  drippings.  Season  with  salt,  and  put  into 
hot  oven  for  20  minutes.  Remove,  put  on  platter,  and 
place  on  each  piece  a slice  of  cooked,  crisp  bacon. 


Sweet  Potato  Biscuit 


1 cup  boiled  mashed 
sweet  potatoes 

2 well-beaten  eggs 
2 teaspoons  baking 

powder 


2 teaspoons  melted  fat 
2 cups  milk 
2 cups  flour 
1 teaspoon  salt 


Mix  together  all  the  dry  ingredients  and  stir  them  into 
the  milk,  egg,  and  potato.  If  mixture  is  too  soft,  add  flour. 
Roll  out,  cut  with  biscuit-cutter,  and  bake  in  quick  oven. 


SWEET  POTATOES  FOR  DINNER 
Baked  Sweet  Potatoes 

Scrub  potatoes  with  a brush  and  rinse  them  with  water 
until  they  are  thoroughly  clean.  Prick  the  skin  with  a 
fork  before  putting  them  in  the  oven.  Bake  about  1 hour, 
or  until  they  are  tender  in  the  center.  To  prevent  a 
potato  from  becoming  soggy,  as  soon  as  it  is  taken  from 
the  oven  break  the  potato  so  as  to  allow  the  steam  to  escape. 


22 


THREE-MEALS-A-DAY  SERIES 


Into  slits  cut  lengthwise  and  crosswise,  place  a piece  of 
butter.  Serve  hot. 

Mashed  Sweet  Potatoes 

To  2 cups  riced  sweet  potatoes  add  3 tablespoons  of 
butter,  ^2  teaspoon  salt,  and  hot  milk  to  moisten.  Beat 
until  light  and  serve. 

Glazed  Sweet  Potatoes 
4 sweet  potatoes  cup  sugar 

% cup  butter  % cup  hot  water 

Cook  potatoes  or  use  cold  ones  already  boiled.  Cut  in 
half  lengthwise  and  lay  them  in  baking  pan.  Add  the  hot 
water,  sprinkle  on  the  sugar,  and  pour  on  the  melted  butter. 
Bake  20  minutes,  basting  frequently  with  the  sirup  in  the 
pan.  Serve  hot. 

Stuffed  Sweet  Potatoes 

Wash  well  and  boil  until  tender  good  firm  sweet  potatoes. 
When  they  are  tender,  cut  them  in  half  lengthwise  and 
take  out  the  pulp.  Mash  the  pulp  well,  season  with  salt, 
butter,  a little  milk,  sugar,  and  cinnamon.  Fill  the  skins 
with  the  mixture  and  put  them  into  oven  to  browm. 


Sweet  Potato  Pone 


1 quart  raw  potato 
(grated) 

3 pints  milk 

2 eggs 


1 cup  butter 
1 tablespoon  nutmeg 
]/2  teaspoon  salt 
2^4  cups  sugar 


Mix  all  the  ingredients  together  and  beat  until  smooth. 
Grease  and  flour  a baking  pan.  Pour  in  the  pone  and 
bake  1 hour  in  a slow  oven.  Serve  hot  or  cold  with  cream 
as  a dessert  if  desired. 


POTATOES 


23 


Escalloped  Sweet  Potatoes 
Wash,  peel,  and  boil  the  sweet  potatoes.  Slice  them 
very  thin,  put  them  into  a baking  dish  in  layers,  and  season 
each  layer  with  salt,  butter,  sugar,  a dash  of  spice,  nutmeg, 
and  ginger.  Cover  with  milk  and  bake  in  a moderate 
oven.  Serve  hot. 

Sweet  Potato  Compote 

Wash,  boil,  and  slice  sweet  potatoes.  Place  a layer  in 
a baking  dish,  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  butter.  On  this 
put  a layer  of  thin  sliced  apples,  also  sugar  and  butter. 
Alternate  these  layers  until  dish  is  three-quarters  full. 
Pour  a cup  of  hot  water  over  it  and  bake  in  moderate  oven 
until  the  apples  are  soft  and  a thick  sirup  has  formed. 
Serve  hot. 

Elizabeth  Ann  Sweet  Potatoes 
Wash  and  boil  the  sweet  potatoes.  When  they  are 
tender,  remove  them  from  fire  and  mash  well.  To  every 
3 cups  of  the  hot  mashed  potatoes  add  1 cup  of  milk. 
Cream  well.  Put  mixture  into  a baking  dish  and  sprinkle 
the  top  well  with  sugar,  butter,  and  cinnamon.  Put  into 
hot  oven  and  brown.  Serve  hot. 


SWEET  POTATOES  FOR  DESSERT 


Individual  Sweet  Potato  Pie 


2 cups  mashed  potatoes 
14  cup  sugar 
i}i  teaspoons  salt 
2 eggs 


2 cups  milk 
1%  teaspoons  nutmeg 
1 teaspoon  cinnamon 
Juice  and  rind  of  1 lemon 


Mix  ingredients  well  and  beat  until  creamy  and  smooth. 
Cook  until  the  mixture  thickens.  Use  muffin  pans  lined 
with  crust  and  fill  crust  with  mixture. 


24 


THREE-MEALS-A-DAY  SERIES 


Sweet  Potatoes  with  Raisins  and  Marshmallows 
3 cups  mashed  potatoes  % cup  raisins 

i  cup  milk  Marshmallows 

Cream  potatoes  and  milk  well.  Add  raisins.  Put  them 
into  a baking  dish  and  sprinkle  with  sugar,  butter,  and 
cinnamon.  Put  into  oven  until  brown.  Remove  and  place 
a layer  of  marshmallows  on  top.  Put  into  hot  oven  until 
marshmallows  have  melted.  Serve  hot. 

Sweet  Potato  Pudding 
3 cups  mashed  potatoes  K cup  sugar 

i cup  buttermilk  i teaspoon  each  of 

% teaspoon  soda  nutmeg,  cinna- 

3 well-beaten  eggs  mon,  and  cloves 

Mix  ingredients  well,  put  into  well-greased  pan,  and  bake 
in  slow  oven. 


SWEET  POTATOES  FOR  SUPPER 


Sweet  Potato  Croquettes 

2 cups  hot  riced  potatoes  i egg 

3 tablespoons  butter  Pepper 

y2  teaspoon  salt 

Mix  well,  shape  into  oblongs,  roll  in  bread  crumbs  or 
flour,  fry  in  deep  fat,  and  drain.  If  potatoes  are  very7  dry, 
add  a little  milk  to  moisten. 


Sweet  Potato  Puffers 


2 eggs 

2 cups  cold  mashed 
potatoes 


i cup  flour 
i teaspoon  baking 
powder 


Whip  the  eggs  very  light,  add  potatoes,  then  the  flour 


POTATOES 


25 


and  baking  powder.  Roll  lightly,  cut  like  doughnuts,  and 
fry  in  deep  fat. 

CANNED  SWEET  POTATOES 
Late  in  the  season  the  sweet  potato  becomes  disagree- 
able in  taste  and  very  watery.  Often  the  entire  supply 
becomes  infected  with  dry  rot,  making  the  potato  unfit 
for  food.  In  order  that  this  loss  may  be  avoided,  sweet 
potatoes  should  be  canned  as  follows:  Cook  the  potato 
three-fourths  done.  Peel.  Pack  in  tin  cans  dry.  For  No. 
3 cans  exhaust  1 5 minutes,  then  process  3 hours. 


Date  Due 


The' 
more  t 
we  knf 
home-g 
ends. 

Rice : 

In  tl_ 
its  poss 
and  in\ 
an  adm 

Peam 

Whol- 
in  its  cc 
for  pou- 
rations 
the  imp 


Com  i 

In  th 
of  meat 
gestion 

as  to  h( 

the  app 

Potatt 

Anyo 

or  swee __ 

changes  l.  B-  Cat-  No_  II3? 

as  a v< 

doughnuts,  caues,  pies. 


lething 
: foods 
use  of 
althful 


mly  in 
essert, 
and  as 


sented 
•essing 
prepa- 
ore  us 


uettes 
a sug- 
uction 
tempt 


Irish 

isome 

reads, 

alads, 


Legumes : Dried  Beans,  Peas,  and  Lentils. 

Under  Legumes,  the  student  comes  to  know  the  unusual  food  value 
of  beans,  peas,  and  lentils,  as  compared  with  other  vegetables  and 
their  cost,  also  that  there  are  innumerable  ways  of  preparing  “the 
poor  man’s  beef”  in  savory  baked  and  stewed  dishes,  and  soups. 

Bound  in  paper,  price,  each,  $0.25 


RAND  McNALLY  & COMPANY 


CHICAGO 


NEW  YORK 


S, 

641.  5" 


PI9651 


