THE 


spy  l 

f^^m 

gpj 

fuM 

^L^y 

1  :^pTc£' 

,  m  iii  ji  "'''iiiii 

K 


<si 


\  1 1 


*M 


1! 


INYP0PULARPUB.CO.07BQNDSrNEWy0RK 


/  THE 

PRACTICAL  HOME 

COOK-BOOK. 

WITH  USEFUL  INSTRUCTIONS  ON    MARKETING   AND   THB   CHOICE 
OF  ARTICLES   OF  FOOD. 


IT  CONTAINS  THE  FOLLOWING: 
HOW  TO  MAKE  SOUPS,   BROTHS,   STEWS,  HASHES, 
AND  SAVORY  DISHES;  HOW  TO  DRESS  VEGETA- 
BLES, ROASTING,  BOILING,  FRYING,  BROIL- 
ING AND  SAUCES,  POULTRY  AND  GAME; 
FISH,  PIES,  PUDDINGS;  PASTRY;  CON- 
FECTIONERY; BREAD;  ETC.; 
HOW  TO  PICKLE;  HOW 
TO  PRESERVE  AND 
BOTTLE  FRUIT, 
ETC.,  ETC 


1CXAMINK  THE  CONTENTS. 


Nevt  York. 

New  York  Popular  Publishing  Co. 

Main  Office,  37  Bond  St. 

Coloring,  Printing  and  Engraving  Dep'ts,  18  Ro#«  St. 

t    J.  DShEr,  f Proprwtont 


V 


ftrtered  according  tc  Act  !>f  Congress  In  t*w  year  M98*  b7 

Dick  &  Stecher, 

U  fee  office  of  the  librarian  of  Oongreee  at  Washington.  D  CM 


3 

CONTENTS. 

{Each    Recipe  is   Numbered.) 


MARKETING ;  AND  ON"  THE  CHOICE  OF  ARTICLES  OF  FOOD. 

SOUPS  AND  BROTHS. 
General   Remarks.— 1,  To  Make  Stock.    2,  Mock  Turtle  Soup.    3,  Egg 
Balls.    4,  Force  Meat  Balls.    5,  Ox-tail  Soup.    6,  Vegetable  Soup.    7, 
Mutton  Broth.    8.  Beef  Tea.    9,  Beef  Broth.     10,  Pea  Soup. 

STEWS,  HASHES,  AND  SAVORY  DISHES. 
General  Remarks.— 11,  Browning  for  Gravy.  12,  Brown  Gravy.  13, 
Gravy  for  a  Hash.  14,  Curry.  15,  Curry  Powder.  16,  To  Hash  Cold 
Meat.  17,  To  Mince  Veal.  18,  Alamode  Beef.  19,  Stewed  Brisket  of 
Beef.  20,  Savory  Stewed  Steak.  21,  Stewed  Knuckle  of  Veal.  22,  Ra- 
gout of  Rabbit.  23,  Stewed  Rabbits.  24,  Irish  Stew.  25,  Lamb's 
Head  and  Pluck.  26,  Haricot  Mutton.  27,  Bubble  and  Squeak.  28, 
Sausage  Meat.    29,  Beefsteak  Pudding. 

TO  DRESS  VEGETABLES. 
General  Directions.— 30,   Potatoes.    31,  Green  Peas.    32,  Broad  Beans. 

83,  Haricot    Beans.    34,  French  or    Scarlet  Beans.    35,  Turnips.  36, 

Carrots.    37,  Cabbages.    38,  Cauliflowers.     39,    Brocoli   Sprouts.  40, 

Spinach.    41,  AsDaragus.    42,  Beets.     43.  Onions.    44,  Tomatoes.  45, 

Vegetable  Marrows.    46,  Mushrooms.     47,  Rice.     48,  Artichokes.  49, 
Jerusalem  Artichokes.    50,  A  Salad. 

ROASTING. 
General  Remarks.— 51,  Beef.    52.  Mutton.    53,  Venison.    54,  Lamb.    55, 
Veal.    56,  Pork.    57,  Sucking  Pig.    58,  Ox  Heart. 

BOILING. 
General  Directions.— 59,  Round  of  Beef.     60,  Aitch-bone.    61,  Brisket  of 

Beef.    62,  Leg  of  Mutton.    63,  Neck  or  Breast.    64,  Leg  of  Lamb.    65, 
■?  Leg  of  Veal.    66,  Knuckle  of  Veal.    67,   A  Chump  of  Veal.    68,  Calf's 

Head.    69,  Sheep's  Head.    70,  Pickled  Pork.     71.  Bacon  and  Beans. 

72,  A  Ham.    73,  A  Tongue.    74,  Tripe.     75,  Cow  Heel. 

FRYING. 
General    Directions.— 76,  Sausages.     77,    Liver   and  Bacon.    78,    Beef- 
steaks and  Onions.    79,  Veal  Cutlets.     80,  Pork  Chops.    81.  Bacon  and 
Eggs.    82,  Tripe.    83,  Parsley. 

BROILING. 
General  Directions.— 84,  Beefsteaks.    85,  Mutton  Chops.    86,  Ham.    87, 
Pork  Chops.    88,  Kidneys.    89,  To  Boil  Eggs.    90,  To  Poach  Eggs.    91, 
To  Make  an  Omelet.    92,  Eggs  and  Spinach. 

SAUCES. 
General  Remarks.— 93,  Melted  Butter.  94,  Onion  Sauce.  95,  E?rg  Sauce. 
96,  Bread  Sauce.  97,  Mushroom  Sauce.  98,  Mint  Sauce.  99,  Oyster 
Sauce.  100,  Anchovy  Sauce.  101,  Lobster  Sauce.  102,  Shrimp  Sauce. 
103,  Fish  Sauce.  104,  Sweet  Sauce.  105,  Caudle  Sauce.  106,  Apple 
Sauce.  107,  Celery  Sauce.  108,  Parsley  and  Butter.  109,  Wine  Sauce. 
110,  Mushroom  Sauce.    Ill,  Caper  Sauce. 


CONTENTS.— COXJIXUED. 

POULTRY  AND, GAME. 

.112,  To  Roast  Fowls.  113.  To  Roast  a  Turkey.  114,  To  Roast  a  Goose. 
115,  To  Dress  Giblets.  116,  To  Roast  Ducks.  117,  Pigeons.  118,  Pheas- 
sants.  119,  Partridges.  196,  Grouse  and  Blackcocks.  121,  Snipes  and 
Woodcocks.  122,  Hare.  123.  Rabbit.  124,  Batter  for  Roast  Hare. 
125  To  Jug  a  Hare.  120,  To  Boil  a  Turkey.  127,  To  Boil  a  Fowl. 
128,  To  Boil  Rabbits.  129,  To  Boil  Pigeons. 
FISH. 

General  Remarks.  -130,  Turbot.  131,  Salmon.  132,  Cod.  133,  Head  and 
Shoulders.  134,  To  Stew  Cod.  133.  To  Boil  Shell-fish.  136,  To  Fry 
Haddocks.  137,  To  Broil  Haddocks.  138,  To  Cook  Dried  Haddock. 
139,  Baked  Fish.  140,  To  Broil  Mackerel.  141,  To  Dress  Flat-fish.  142, 
To  Broil  Herrings.  143,  To  Fry  Herrings.  144,  To  Stew  Eels.  145,  To 
Broil  Eels.  146,  To  Boil  Soles.  147,  To  Fry  Soles.  148,  To  Stew  Mus- 
sels.   149,  To  Scollop  Oysters.    150,  To  Dress  Salt  Fish. 

PIES  AND  PUDDINGS. 
General  Rules.— 151.  Puff  Paste.  152,  Crust  for  Raised  Pies.  153,  Rhu- 
barb, Gooseberry,  and  Currant  Pies.  154,  Apple  Pie.  155,  Open  Tarts. 
156,  Mince  Pie?.  157,  Christmas  Pudding.  158,  Pigeon  Pie.  159, 
Meat  and  Potato  Pie.  160,  Gihlet  Pie.  161,  Eel  Pie.  162,  To  Clean 
Currants  and  other  Fruit.  163,  Cherry,  Gooseberry,  or  Currant  and 
Raspberry  Pudding.  164.  Boiled  Apple  Pudding.  165,  Rich 
Baked  Apple  Pudding,  166,  Apple  Dumplings.  167,  Plain  Suet 
Pudding.  IfiS.  Currant  Dumplings.  169,  Yorkshire  Pudding. 
170,  Currant  Bolster  Pudding.  171,  Plum  Pudding.  172,  Bread 
Pudding.  178,  Bread  and  Butter  Pudding.  174,  Hard  Dump- 
lings. 175,  Custard  Pudding.  176,  Boiled  Rice  Pudding.  177,  Baked 
Rice  Pudding.  178,  Rich  Rice  Pudding.  179,  Tapioca  Pudding.  180, 
Yeast  Dumplings.  181,  Lemon  Pudding.  182,  Snow-balls.  183,  Bat- 
ter Pudding.  184,  Ditto,  without  eggs.  185,  Peas  Pudding.  186,  Nor- 
folk Dumplings.  187,  Curate  or  Sponge  Pudding.  188,  Cabinet  Pud- 
ding. 189,  Pancakes.  190,  Fruit  Fritters.  191,  Apple  Fritters.  192, 
Hasty  Pudding. 

PASTRY,  CONFECTIONERY,  BREAD,  ETC. 
193,  To  Make  Bread.  194,  French  Bread  and  Rolls.  195,  Fine  Rolls.  196. 
Tea  Cakes.  197,  Yorkshire  Cakes.  198,  A  Plum  Cake.  199,  Pound 
Cake.  200,  Seed  cake.  201,  Ginger  Nuts.  202,  Gingerbread.  203,  Ar- 
rowroot Blancmange.  204,  Gooseberry  Fool.  205,  Gooseberry  Jam, 
206,  Blackberry  Jam.  207,  Raspberry  Jam.  208,  Strawberry  Jam. 
209.  Calf's-foot  Jelly.  210,  Red  Currant  Jellv.  211,  Black  Currant 
Jelly.  212,  Apple  Jelly.  213,  Rhubarb  Jam.  214,  Orange  Marmalade. 
Home-made  Wines  and  Cooling  Beverages,  215 — 228. 


PICKLING  AND  PRESERVING. 


CONTENTS. 

Page. 

How  to  Pickle 49 

Red  Cabbage 50 

Onions •  •  •   50 

French  "Beans  or  Gherkins 50 

Cucumbers 51 

Cauliflowers  or  Brocoli 51 

Walnuts 51 

Another  Way . .  .    52 

Another  Way.  , 52 

Celery ■ 52 

Beet-root 52 

Nasturtiums 52 

Red  Capsicums 53 

Tomatoes .      . 53 

Another  Way .    . .      S3 

Radish  Pods 53 

Cheap  and  Wholesome  Pickles 53 

American   Pickle 54 

Piccalilli       .     .     .  ■  •   .    5* 

Mixed  Pickle  and  India  Pickle 54 

How  to  Preserve . .    .    .  •  •      •    55 

General  Rules  and   Directions . . 55 

Jams  and  Preserves. .    .      .-*.. ....      ....    56 

Raspberry  Jam 56 

Another  Way 57 

Strawberry  Jam .     5? 

Black  Currant  Jam •  •  • 5? 


6 

CONTENTS— COJS  TIN  UED 


White  or  Red  Currant  Jam  _._. . .    .   .   57 

©rape  Jam   -  57 

Cherry  Jam — '  ■    57 

Gooseberry  Jam 57 

Blackberry  Jam 57 

Pineapple  Jam ....      58 

Pineapples , .    .  .       .  ,  .58 

Rhubarb .        59 

Strawberries  or  Raspberries,  for  Creams  or   lees, 

without  boiling 58 

Strawberries. 59 

Raspberries,  whole . 59 

Damsons — . , ......   59 

Greengages  in  Syrup .....   59 

Gooseberries .    . .       ...     60 

Peaches,  whole  (an  economical  way)         ...  60 

Peaches 60 

Brandy  Peaches ....    ~ ..   61 

Quinces.  . .    .     ......  ',.-'.  61 

Green  Ginger .         61 

A  pples,  whola 61 

Orab  Apples ...     61 

Pears 62 

Pumpkins 62 

Lemon •  •  •     62 

Oranges  and  Lemons,  whole, 62 

Siberian   Crabs ....  62 

Summer  Fruits ..fi63 

Bottled   Fruit ..   63 

For  Tarts,  without  Sugar 63 

Cherries,   &c 6  * 

Green  Gooseberries  and  Currants,     64 

Damsons.. —  •••     ....  64 


DOMESTIC   COOKERY. 


ON  THE  CHOICE  OF  ARTICLES  OF  DIET. 

To  Choose  Beef. — Good  ox  beef  has  an  open  grain,  and  yields 
easily  to  the  pressure  of  the  finger;  it  is  smooth  and  juicy,  of  a 
rich  carnation-color  in  the  lean,  and  the  fat  is  of  a  fine  cream- 
color  ;  rich  without  being  oily,  firm  without  being  hard.  It  is 
small  in  the  bone,  and  full  in  the  flesh. 

Mutton. — In  choosing  mutton  select  that  which  is  of  a  rich  red 
color,  close  in  the  grain  and  of  a  silky  texture,  juicy  and  lively  in 
appearance,  and  whitish  in  the  fat,  but  not  shiny  and  tallowy. 
The  flesh  should  pinch  tender,  and  rise  again  when  dented. 

Lamb. — Observe  the  neck  vein  in  the  fore-quarter,  which  should 
be  of  an  azure-blue  to  denote  quality  and  sweetness.  The  flesh 
should  be  light-colored  and  juic}',  the  fat  white  and  rich,  the  bones 
thin  and  small.  Lamb  should  be  dressed  while  perfectly  fresh,  or 
the  flavor  will  be  destroyed.     It  is  in  season  from  April  till  August. 

Venison. — Pass  a  knife  along  the  bones  of  the  haunches  and 
shoulders;  if  it  smells  sweet,  the  meat  is  new  and  good;  if  tainted, 
the  fleshy  parts  of  the  sides  will  look  discolored,  and  the  darker 
in  pi-oportion  to  its  staleness.  The  clefts  of  the  hoofs  of  young 
venison  are  close  and  smooth.  The  buck  venison  is  in  full  season 
from  May  till  Allhallo ws ;  the  doe,  from  Michaelmas  to  December 
or  January. 

Veal. — The  lean  of  good,  well-fed  veal  is  white,  smooth,  and 
juicy ;  the  fat  is  white,  firm,  and  abundant.  The  flesh  of  a  bull- 
calf  is  firmer  and  of  a  deeper  color  than  that  of  a  cow-calf,  and 
the  fat  is  harder;  they  are  equally  good  for  eating,  if  young  and 
well-fed.  It  is  easy  to  tell  whether  veal  be  newly  killed,  or  stale, 
by  its  general  appearance,  as  the  color  changes  quickly,  particu- 
larly under  the  kidney  and  the  flaps  of  the  breast.  The  flesh  of 
stale- killed  veal  feels  moist  and  clammy,  the  joints  flabby  and 
pliable,  and  it  has  a  faint,  musty  smell. 

Pork. — If  young  and  well-fed,  the  lean  is  easily  broken  between 
the  fingers,  and  the  skin  indented  if  nipped  with  the  nail ;  the  fat 
is  white  and  waxy,  and  the  rind  thin  and  clean.  Stale-killed  pork 
is  easily  detected  by  the  skin  looking  dark  on  the  top,  and  clammy 
between  the  creases  of  the  legs  and  shoulders,  and  by  its  strong, 
tainted  smell.     Pork  is  in  season  from  August  till  March. 

Ham,  and  Bacon. — Run  a  knife  along  the  bone  of  a  ham;  if  it 
come  out  clean,  and  have  a  savory  flavor,  the  ham  is  good ;  if 
smeared  and  dulled,  it  is  spoiled  either  by  taint  or  is  reasty. 
Hocks  and  gammons  of  bacon  may  be  proved  in  the  same  way, 


8 

DOMESTIC    COOKERY. 


Good  bacon  is  red  in  the  lean,  and  the  fat  is  white,  firm,  and 
pulpy ;  the  rind  is  fine  and  thin.  If  it  be  sheathed  with  yellow,  it 
is  reasty  and  unfit  for  use. 

Poultry. — In  selecting  poultry  choose  those  that  are  full-grown, 
but  not  old.  When  young  and  fresh-killed  the  eyes  are  full  and 
bright,  the  joints  neither  stiff  nor  flabby ;  the  skin  thin  and  ten- 
der, so  that'it  may  be  easily  torn  with  a  pin ;  the  breast-bone  is 
pliable,  yielding  easily  to  pressure.  Fowls,  if  young,  have  a  hard, 
close  vent,  and  the  legs  and  comb  are  smooth.  A  goose,  if  young, 
has  but  few  hail's,  a  yellow  bill,  and  is  limber-footed.  Ducks, 
when  fat,  are  hard  and  thick  on  the  belly;  if  young  and  good 
they  are  limber-footed. 

Eggs.— Put  your  tongue  to  the  larger  end;  if  it  feel  warm,  the 
egg  is  fresh;  or  put  the  egg  into  a  pan  of  cold  water;  if  perfectly 
fresh  it  will  sink  immediately,  and  so  in  proportion  to  its  fresh- 
ness;   a  rotten  egg  will  float  en  the  top  of  the  water. 

Butter. — The  only  way  to  try  butter  is  by  the  smell  and  taste; 
never  trust  to  its  external  appearance.  Do  not  buy  that  which  is 
speckled  with  pinky  spots,  nor  that  which  has  a  milky  appear- 
ance; such  butter  has  not  been  well  washed  from  the  butter-milk, 
and  will  quickly  turn  sour  or  lose  its  flavor. 

Fish. — The  best  are  thick  and  firm.  When  fresh  they  have  stiff 
fins,  bright  scales,  red  gills,  and  eyes  full  and  bright.  Freshness 
is.best  indicated  by  the  smell.  In  proportion  to  the  time  they 
have  been  out  of  the  water  they  are  soft  and  flabby,  the  fins  pliable, 
the  scales  dim,  the  gills  dark,  and  the  eyes  sunken.  Cod,  turbot, 
&c,  should  be  firm,  white,  clear,  and  transparent.  Salmoiij  mack- 
erel, herrings,  &c. ,  are  chosen  by  their  brightness  and  brilliancy 
of  color.  Shell-fish,  such  as  lobsters  and  crabs,  can  only  be  chosen 
by  the  smell,  and  by  opening  them  at  the  joint  to  discover 
whether  or  not  they  are  well-filled,  for  they  sometimes  feel  heavy- 
through  being  charged  with  water.  If  a  lobster  be  fresh,  the  tail 
will  be  stiff,  and  spring  back  sharply  if  pulled  up.  A  cock  lob- 
ster may  be  known  by  the  narrowness  of  the  back  part  of  his  tail 
and  the  stiffness  of  the  two  uppermost  fins  within  it,  while  tnose-of 
a  hen  are  soft,  and  the  back  of  her  tail  is  broader. 


SOUPS  AND  BROTHS. 

General  Remarks.— The  chief  art  in  making  good  soup  lies  in 
the  judicious  blending  of  the  different  flavors,  so  that  nothing 
shall  predominate. 

The  scum  should  be  taken  off  before  the  soup  boils,  or  it  will  not 
be  clear.  All  the  fat  is  to  be  taken  off.  Simmer  very  softly.  If 
soup  be  suffered  to  boil  quickly,  the  goodness  of  the  meat  can 
never  be  extracted. 

Put  the  meat  into  cold  water;  let  it  be  long  on  the  fire  Jbefore*  it 
comes  to  a  boil;  allow  about  two  tablespoonfuls  of  salt  to  a  gallon 
of  soup,  if  it  have  many  vegetables ;  less  if  the  vegetables  be  few. 
From  a  pint  and  a  half  to  a  quart  of  water  to  every  pound  of 
meat  will  make  good  soup.  If  the  water  waste,  and  more  is  to  be 
added,  use  boiling  water.     Cold  or  lukewarm  water  will  spoil  the 


DOMESTIC    COOKERY. 


soup.  Keep  the  saucepan  in  which  your  soup  is  boiling  closely 
covered,  or  the  strength  will  fly  off  with  the  steam. 

Soup  will  be  as  good  the  second  day  as  the  first,  if  heated  to  the 
boiling-point.  It  should  never  be  left  in  the  saucepan  but  should 
be  turned  into  a  dish  or  shallow  pan,  and  set  aside  to  get  cold. 
Never  cover  it  up,  as  that  will  cause  it  to  turn  sour  very  quickly. 

Before  heating  a  second  time,  remove  all  the  fat  from  the  top.  If 
this  be  melted  in,  the  flavor  of  the  soup  will  certainly  be  spoiled. 

Thickened  soups  require  nearly  double  the  seasoning  used  for 
thin  soup  or  broth. 

Brown  soup  is  made  chiefly  of  beef;  white  soup  of  veal. 

1.  To  Make  Stock.— Bone  a  leg  or  shin  of  beef  of  ten  pounds' 
weight,  saw  the  bone  in  three,  and  take  out  the  marrow.  Put  the 
bone  into  a  saucepan  with  six  quarts  of  water,  and  set  it  on  to 
boil.  Put  the  marrow  into  another  saucepan  with  the  meat,  cut 
up  small,  and  a  pound  of  lean  ham  or  bacon ;  turn  it  well  about 
till  it  is  fried  a  nice  brown,  then  add  the  liquor  from  the  bones, 
cover  up  the  pot  and  simmer  for  four  or  five  hours.  Strain  it 
through  a  hair-sieve,  and  set  it  by  till  cold;  the  fat  may  then  be 
taken  off,  and  it  will  be  ready  for  any  soup  that  may  be  required. 
This  forms  the  foundation  of  gravy,  ox-tail,  vegetable,  and  other 
soups. 

2.  Mock  Turtle.  Soup. — Take  a  calf's  head,  the  skin  having  been 
scalded  and  the  hair  scraped  off  clean,  wash  it  thoroughly;  take 
out  the  brains  and  boil  them  separately  till  done  enough.  Put  the 
head  into  a  pot  with  more  water  than  will  cover  it.  Skim  it  fre- 
quently till  it  boils,  and  let  it  boil  for  an  hour,  but  very  gently. 
Take  it  out,  and  when  cool,  cut  the  meat  into  pieces  of  about  an 
inch  square.  Scrape  and  cut  the  tongue  in  the  same  manner. 
Lay  all  these  pieces  aside,  then  put  into  the  water  in  which  the 
head  was  boiled,  about  three  or  four  pounds  of  leg  of  beef  and  a 
knuckle  of  veal — the  meat  cut  small  and  the  bones  broken.  Add 
four  or  five  onions,  a  carrot  and  turnip,  sliced,  a  small  bunch  of 
sweet  herbs,  and  some  whole  black  and  Jamaica  pepper.  Boil  all 
together  slowly,  for  four  or  five  hours,  then  strain  it  and  let  it 
cool,  when  take  off  the  fat.  Now  melt  a  lump  of  butter  in  a  stew- 
pan,  put  to  it  two  handfuls  of  flour,  and  let  it  brown,  stirring  it 
all  the  time.  Add  a  little  of  the  soup,  a  sprig  or  two  of  sweet 
basil,  and  a  few  sprigs  of  parsley.  Boil  this  for  a  quarter  of  an 
hour,  strain  it  through  a  sieve,  put  it  with  the  pieces  of  meat,  into 
the  soup,  with  the  brains  pounded,  and  boil  all  together  for  an 
hour.  Add  half  a  teacupful  of  catsup,  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  cay- 
enne pepper,  and  salt,  to  taste,  also  four  glasses  of  sherry,  and 
when  dished  in  a  tureen,  put  in^  two  dozen  of  force  meat  balls,  and 
the  same  quantity  of  egg -balls;  which  are  made  as  follows: 

3.  Egg  Balls. — Boil  four  or  five  eggs  till  they  are  quite  hard.  Take 
out  the  yolks  and  beat  them  in  a  mortar,  with  salt  and  cayenne 
pepper.  Make  this  into  a  paste  with  the  white  of  egg.  Roll 
the  paste  into  balls  the  size  of  small  marbles.  Roll  them  in  a  little 
flour  and  fry  them  in  butter,  taking  care  they  do  not  break. 

4.  Force-meat  Balls. — Cut  half  a  pound  of  veal  and  half  a  pound 
of  suet  fine,  and  beat  them  in  a  mortar.  Have  a  few  sweet  herbs 
shred  fine;  dried  mace  beaten  fine;  a  small  nutmeg  grated;  a  little 


10 

DOMESTIC    COOKERY 


lemon-peel  cut  very  fine ;  a  little  pepper  and  salt,  and  the  yolks  of 
two  eggs ;  mix  all  these  well  together,  then  roll  them  in  little  round 
balls ;  roll  them  in  flour  and  fry  them  brown.  If  for  white  sauce, 
put  them  in  a  little  boiling  water,  and  boil  them  for  a  few  minutes, 
tut  do  not  fry  them. 

5.  Ox^tail  Soup. — Make  a  quantity  of  brown  soup  with  shin 
of  beef;  take  two  or  three  tails  and  cut  them  in  pieces  at  the 
joints ;  put  them  into  the  soup  and  stew  them  till  tender,  but  not 
till  the  meat  leaves  the  bones.  Add  a  little  catsup,  and  serve  it 
with  the  pieces  of  tail  in  the  soup. 

6.  Vegetable  Soup. — Take  the  liquor  in  which  any  meat  has  been 
boiled ;  cut  into  it  two  onions,  two  turnips,  a  large  carrot,  a  head 
of  celery,  and  a  little  parsley ;  add  also  a  bunch  of  sweet  herbs ; 
boil  all  together  for  a  couple  of  hours ;  then  take  out  the  sweet 
herbs  and  rub  the  vegetables  through  a  sieve ;  have  ready  some 
chopped  parsley,  and  boil  all  up  again.  Season  with  pepper  and 
salt.  Thicken,  if  required,  with  barley,  rice,  or  sago.  This  soup 
may  be  made  better  by  cutting  into  it  a  pound  or  two  of  lean 
beef. 

7.  Mutton  Broth. — This  is  an  excellent  broth  for  invalids,  being 
of  a  very  mild  nature,  and  particularly  efficacious  to  those  whose 
stomachs  have  been  rendered  tender  by  much  medicine.  The  best 
parts  of  mutton  for  making  broth  are  either  the  scrag  end  of  the 
neck  or  the  chump  end  of  the  loin,  which  should  be  put  into  a 
clean  saucepan  with  cold  water  in  the  proportion  of  a  quart  of 
water  to  every  pound  of  meat.  Throw  in  a  little  salt  and  skim  it 
well  as  it  comes  to  a  boil;  then  set  it  aside  that  it  may  simmer 
very  gently ;  slice  in  an  onion  and  two  turnips;  let  it  stew  for 
two  hours,  and,  just  before  you  take  it  up,  chop  up  a  few  sprigs 
of  parsley  very  fine,  and  put  into  the  broth,  first  taking  out  the 
mutton.  Toast  some  bread  in  thin  slices,  and  cut  it  in  small 
squares  into  a  basin;  pour  the  broth  over  it,  and  serve  the  meat 
in  a  dish.  The  turnips  may  be  strained  dry  and  served  plain,  or 
mashed  up  with  a  little  butter,  pepper,  and  salt.  Some  prefer  to 
thicken  the  broth  with  pearl  barley.  If  for  a  sick  person,  omit 
the  herbs  and  vegetables. 

8.  Beef  Tea. — Take  a  pound  of  lean  beef,  cut  it  small,  and  put  it 
with  a  quart  of  cold  water,  into  a  saucepan ;  add  a  little  salt  and 
two  or  three  allspice.  Put  it  on  a  slow  fire  and  skim  it  carefully 
as  it  comes  to  a  boil.  Let  it  simmer  gently  for  an  hour,  then 
strain  it  through  a  hair  sieve.  Some  persons  cut  in  a  small  onion, 
but  that  is  scarcely  fit  for  invalids. 

9.  Beef  Broth. — Take  a  leg  of  beef,  cut  it  in  pieces;  put  it  into  a 
gallon  of  water;  skim  it;  put  in  two  or  three  blades  of  mace,  some 
parsley,  and  a  crust  of  bread;  boil  it  till  the  beef  and  sinews  are 
tender.  Toast  bread  and  cut  into  dice;  put  it  in  a  dish;  lay  in 
the  beef,  and  pour  on  tne  broth. 

10.  Pea  Soup. — This  soup  should  be  made  with  liquor  in  which 
any  kind  of  meat  has  been  boiled,  but  the  liquor  of  salt  pork  gives 
it  a  more  savory  flavor.  It  can  be  made  with  water  alone,  if  you 
have  no  pot-liquor;  but  in  that  case  it  is  better  to  get  a  few  bones, 
as  they  will  add  greatly  to  the  flavor  and  nourishing  qualities  of 
the  soup.    Wash  one  quart  of  peas  perfectly  clean,  put  them  into 


11 

DOMESTIC    COOKERY. 


a  not  with  the  bones  and  three  carrots  sliced  thin,  and  simmer 
trentlv  for  about  an  hour;  then  add  four  onions  cut  m  thin  slices, 
a  head  of  celery,  a  few  sweet  herbs,  and  a  few  sprigs  of  parsley 
chopped  very  fine,  and  let  the  whole  stew  gently  for  three  hours 
loneer  taking  care  to  stir  it  now  and  then,  as  the  peas  are  apt  to 
burn  '  Press  the  whole  through  a  colander  with  a  spoon,  season  it 
with'pepper  and  salt  to  your  palate  put  it  over  the  fire  agT„2 
have  it  quite  hot,  and  serve  it  up  with  some  thin  toasted  bread  and 
some  dried  mint  rubbed  fine.  . 

It  should  be  observed,  that  split  peas  will  not  soften  m  salt 
liquor;  therefore,  if  you  make  your  soup  of  salt  pork  or  salt  beet 
liquor,  it  will  be  necessary  to  boil  the  peas  by  themselves  in  a 
small  quantity  of  soft  water  until  they  a*  melted;  the  vegetables 
meantime  will  be  cooking  in  the  liquor,  and  the  peas,  when  suffi- 
ciently done,  must  be  added.  Green  peas  make  an  excellent  soup 
in  summer.  The  peas  are  boiled  to  a  pulp  and  then  rubbed 
through  a  sieve,  afterwards  flavored  with  pepper  and  salt. 

STEWS,  HASHES,  AND  SAVORY  DISHES. 
General  Remarks.— Hashing  meat  is  a  method  of  re-cooking 
dressed  meat.  The  meat  ought  never  to  be  suffered  to  boil,  or  it 
will  become  hard  and  tasteless.  The  gravy  should  be  made  first^ 
the  flour  and  all  the  ingredients  added  to  flavor  it,  should  be- 
properly  cooked;  the  meat  should  then  be  put  in,  and  just  heated 

thStews'are  made  of  uncooked  meat,  and  require  very  little  water, 
delicate  and  savory  seasoning,  and  thorough,  though  slow  cook- 
ing so  as  to  render  the  meat  soft  and  tender.  The  butter  which 
is  added  to  make  a  stew  rich  should  be  melted  not  oiled  nor  m 
too  great  quantity;  all  the  fat  of  the  meat  should  be  skimmed 
clean  off,  and  the  flour  for  thickening  should  be  added  gradually, 
in  order  to  avoid  lumps,  which,  when  once  formed,  can  only  be 
dissolved  by  rubbing  through  a  hair  sieve. 

The  seasoning  depends  on  the  judgment  and  taste  of  the  cook. 
All  the  flavors  should  be  made  to  blend  m  harmony;  neither  the 
pepper,  salt,  spice,  herbs,  nor  any  of  the  vegetables,  should  be 
suffered  to  predominate.  ,  . 

Stews  may  be  thickened  with  flour,  rice,  arrowroot,  or  barley. 

11  For  Browning  and  Thickening  Gravy  or  Soiip.—Take  a 
lump  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  put  it  into  a  stewpan  with  a 
tablespoonful  of  sugar,  and  stir  them  together  ti  11  they  become  ot 
a  dark  brown,  then  dredge  in  sufficient  flour  to  thicken  it. 

12  To  Make  Brown  Gravy.—  Cut  the  meat  into  pieces,  season  it 
with  pepper  and  salt,  and  put  it  into  a  saucepan  with  a  lump  of 
butter;  fry  it  quite  brown,  taking  care  that  it  does  not  stick  to 
the  pot;  pour  boiling  water  to  it,  a  pint  to  each  pound;  let  it  sim- 
mer three  hours,  skimming  it  clean,  then  let  it  stand  and  settle, 
strain  and  set  it  aside  for  use.    Thicken  it  as ;  required 

13  To  Make  Gravy  for  a  Hash  of  Cold  Meat-Cut  a  small 
onion  into  quarters  or  slices  and  fry  it  in  a  saucepan  with  alump 
of  butter;  add  a  sufficient  quantity  of  water,  pepper,  and  salt. 


12 

DOMESTIC    COOKERY. 


and  a  spoonful  of  catsup;  let  it  boil  till  the  onion  is  tender,  strain 
the  gravy  and  thicken  it  with  flour;  let  it  boil  a  little  longer,  then 
add  the  meat,  which  is  to  be  heated  quite  through,  but  not  to  be 
Buffered  to  boil. 

14.  Curries  and  Curry  Powder. — Chickens,  rabbits,  and  veal 
are  most  suitable  for  curry.  Boil  the  meat  till  tender,  then  sep- 
arate the  joints,  put  the  meat  into  a  stew-pan  with  a  lump  of  but- 
ter and  a  little  of  the  liquor  in  which  it  was  boiled,  and  stew  it 
for  twenty  minutes  longer ;  then  to  four  pounds  of  meat  take  a 
tablespoonf ul  of  curry  powder,  a  teacupful  of  boiled  rice,  a  table- 
spoonful  of  flour  and  ope  of  melted  butter,  a  teacupful  of  the 
liquor  and  half  a  teasp%onful  of  salt;  mix  them,  and  stew  the 
meat  in  the  liquor  for  ten  minutes,  when  it  will  be  ready  to  serve. 
Boiled  rice  is  served  as  an  accompaniment. 

15.  Curry  Powder. — Coriander  seed  and  tumeric,  of  each  three 
ounces;  ginger,  pepper,  and  mustard,  of  each  one  ounce;  half  an 
ounce  of  cardamons;  cayenne  pepper,  cinnamon,  and  cumin-seed, 
of  each  a  quarter  of  an  ounce.  Pound  them  fine,  sift,  and  bottle 
the  mixture,  then  cork  tight. 

16.  To  Hash  Cold  Meat— Cut  the  meat  in  thin  slices  off  the 
bones,  and  lay  it  on  a  dish;  sprinkle  on  some  pepper  and  salt;  put 
the  bones  into  a  pot  with  a  little  water;  slice  in  a  small  onion,  and 
let  them  stew  to  make  gravy;  take  out  the  bones,  and  thicken  the 
gravy  with  a  little  flour;  add  also  a  spoonful  of  catsup,  boil  it 
tip,  and  then  lay  in  your  meat ;  shake  it  all  up,  and  let  it  get  hot 
through.    Pour  it  into  a  dish  on  some  thin  snippets  of  bread. 

17.  Minced  Veal. — Cut  the  meat  from  the  bones,  and,  having 
minced  it  very  fine  with  a  small  piece  of  lemon-peel  and  a  sprig 
or  two  of  parsley,  grate  over  it  a  little  nutmeg,  and  sprinkle  on 
some  pepper  and  salt ;  now  put  the  bones  into  the  saucepan  with 
Si  small  onion  split  in  four,  a  sprig  of  savory,  and  one  of  mar- 
joram ;  stew  them  to  make  gravy.  When  done,  strain  it  off,  and 
thicken  it  with  a  little  flour  and  butter,  give  it  a  boil  up,  then  turn 
in  your  mince,  shake  all  well  together,  and  let  it  get  thoroughly 
hot,  but  do  not  to  suffer  it  to  boil ;  pour  it  over  some  thin  toasted 
bread.     Fry  thin  rashers  of  bacon,  and  lay  them  round  the  dish. 

18.  Alamode  Beef. — Take  a  piece  of  clod  or  sticking  of  beef  and 
cut  it  in  small  pieces,  then  put  a  lump  of  dripping  into  your  pot 
with  a  good-sized  onion  cut  thin;  when  quite  hot  roll  the  pieces 
of  beef  in  flour  and  lay  them  in,  stirring  it  well  about ;  when 
nicely  browned  all  over,  add  boiliDg  water,  in  the  proportion  of  a 
quart  to  every  pound  of  meat*  this  must  be  added  by  degrees, 
and  the  whole  kept  stirring  well  together  all  the  time;  then  put 
in  a  few  allspice,  two  bay-leaves,  some  black  pepper,  and  a  little 
salt;  cover  it  up  close,  and  set  it  by  the  side  of  the  fire,  so  that  it 
may  stew  very  gently  till  the  meat  becomes  quite  tender,  which 
it  will  in  about  three  hours,  when  it  will  be  ready  to  serve  up. 

19.  Stewed  B7nsket  of  Beef . — Put  a  piece  of  brisket  of  beef,  say 
of  four  pounds'  weight,  into  a  saucepan  with  a  good  lump  of  drip- 
ping or  butter;  brown  it  well  all  over,  then  pour  in  as  much 
water  as  will  nearly  cover  the  meat,  and,  closing  the  lid  tight, 
j?tew  it  gently  for  three  hours,  taking  care  that  the  meat  does 
not  burn  to  the  pot,  which  may  be  prevented  by  putting  a  small 


13 

DOMESTIC    COOKERY. 


plate  beneath  it.  Boil  a  carrot,  two  turnips,  and  a  few  very 
small  onions  in  another  saucepan,  just  before  you  intend  to  serve 
np  the  dinner ;  take  a  cupful  of  the  liquor  and  mix  in  it  two  good 
tablespoonfuls  of  flour,  some  pepper  and  salt,  and  a  little  catsup; 
turn  this,  with  the  onions  and  the  carrot,  and  the  turnips  cut  in 
small  squares,  into  the  pot  with  the  meat,  and,  shaking  it  well  up, 
boil  all  together  for  a  few  minutes,  when  it  will  be  ready. 
Should  the  beef  be  fat,  the  gravy  will  require  skimming,  which. 
must  be  done  before  you  add  the  thickening. 

20.  Savory  Stewed  Steak. — Take  some  slices  of  beef,  pepper  and 
salt  them  well,  slice  up  a  couple  of  onions  thin,  and  lay  a  piece  or 
two  of  the  fat  of  the  steak  at  the  bottom  of  a  clean  saucepan, 
then  some  of  the  onion,  and  on  that  some  more  steak,  and  so  on 
alternately  till  you  have  put  all  in;  shake  and  turn  it  about 
frequently  to  keep  it  from  burning ;  it  will  presently  be  nice  and 
brown;  let  it  ste\v  in  its  own  gravy  till  the  meat  becomes  tender, 
then  take  off  all  the  fat  from  the  top,  mix  some  flour  in  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  water,  witl  a  little  catsup  or  pickled  walnut 
liquor,  and  pour  it  gradually  into  the  stew ;  stir  it  about  well, 
and  just  give  it  a  boil  up,  serve  it  quite  hot. 

21.  Steioed  Knuckle  of  Veal. — Let  the  saucepan  be  perfectly 
clean;  wash  the  knuckle  well;  place  four  wooden  skewers  at  the 
bottom  of  the  pot,  to  prevent  the  meat  burning;  lay  in  your  veal 
with  two  or  three  blades  of  mace,  an  onion,  a  little  whole  pepper, 
a  sprig  of  thyme  and  some  salt,  with  two  quarts  of  water;  cover 
it  close,  and  let  it  simmer  gently  for  two  hours;  when  done 
enough,  lay  in  it  a  dish,  and  strain  the  broth  over  it.  The  shoulder 
is  very  good  stuffed  and  stewed. 

22.  Ragout  of  Rabbit,— Wash  and  clean  a  good  rabbit;  boil  the 
liver  and  heart,  which  chop  fine,  and  mix  with  some  good  veal 
stuffing;  fill  the  rabbit,  and  sew  it  up.  Put  two  pounds  of  fat 
beef,  and  the  same  weight  of  pickled  pork,  into  a  saucepan  with  a 
quart  of  water  and  a  good-sized  onion  sliced.  Let  them  simmer 
slowly  for  an  hour,  then  put  in  your  rabbit,  and  boil  all  together 
for  another  hour.  Skim  off  all  the  fat  about  ten  minutes  before 
serving,  and  thicken  the  gravy  with  flour  and  butter.  Season 
with  pepper  and  salt,  and  add  a  bunch  of  parsley  boiled  soft,  and 
green  and  finely  chopped.  Lay  the  rabbit  and  the  meat  in  a  hot 
dish,  and  pour  the  sauce  over. 

23.  Stetced  Rabbits. — Clean  the  rabbits  thoroughly,  cut  them  up, 
and  scald  them  for  a  short  time;  put  some  sliced  onions  and  a  bit 
of  dripping  into  your  pot,  and  fry  the  rabbits  with  them  till  slight- 
ly browned,  dredge  in  a  little  flour,  then  add  hot  water  sufficient 
to  make  gravy,  pepper  and  salt,  and  a  little  catsup.  Stew  them 
very  gently  for  an  hour. 

24.  Irish  Stew. — Put  two  pounds  of  breast  of  mutton  into  a  pot, 
with  a  pint  and  a  half  of  water  and  a  pinch  of  salt ;  let  it  stew 
gently  for  an  hour ;  then  take  off  all  the  fat ;  take  out  the  meat 
and  cut  it  into  small  pieces;  have  ready  four  pounds  of  potatoes, 
pared  and  cut  in  halves;  three  or  four  good-sized  onions,  peeled 
and  sliced;  and  pepper  and  salt,  mixed  in  a  cup.  When  you  have 
taken  the  fat  off  the  broth  as  closely  as  possible,  put  in  a  layer  of 
potatoes;  then  sprinkle  two  or  three  pieces  of  meat  with  the  pep- 


14 

DOMESTIC    COOKERY. 


per  and  salt,  and  lay  them  on  the  potatoes,  then  a  layer  of  the 
sliced  onions,  then  another  layer  of  potatoes,  one  of  mutton,  then 
one  of  onions,  and  so  on  till  the  whole  is  in.  Cover  close,  and  let 
it  stew  very  gently  for  another  hour,  shaking  it  frequently,  that 
it  may  not  burn. 

85.  To  Dress  Lamb's  Head  and  Pluck.— Wash  the  head  thorough- 
ly clean,  and  remove  the  brains;  put  the  head,  with  the  heart  and 
part  of  the  liver,  into  a  saucepan,  and  cover  it  with  water.  Put 
in  also  a  small  onion,  peeled,  and  a  little  salt;  skim  it  often  as  it 
comes  to  the  boil,  and  let  it  boil  very  gently  for  an  hour  and  a 
quarter;  take  them  out,  and  lay  the  head  flat  on  the  dish;  put  it 
before  the  fire  to  brown;  put  the  brains,  which  have  been  thor- 
oughly washed  and  picked,  into  the  liquor,  to  boil,  while  you 
mmce,  very  small,  the  heart  and  liver;  then  take  out  the  brains 
and  mmce  them  also;  dredge  over  them  a  tablespoonful  of  flour, 
and  add  a  little  chopped  parsley,  pepper  and  salt;  put  this  back 
into  the  saucepan  with  as  much  of  the  broth  as  will  make  it  a 
good  thick  sauce ;  boil  it  up  two  or  three  times,  and  pour  it  over 
the  head.  A  few  thin  slices  of  bacon,  fried  and  laid  round  the 
dish,  is  a  great  improvement. 

26.  Haricot  Mutton.— Make  a  good  gravy  bv  boiling  the  rough 
bits  and  trimmings,  seasoning  it  with  pepper  and  salt  and  a  little 
catsup.  Strain,  and  add  carrots,  parsnips,  onions,  and  celery 
previously  boiled  tender;  slice  them  in;  then  pepper  and  salt 
your  mutton;  broil  it  brown;  put  it  into  the  gravy  along  with 
the  vegetables;  and  stew  all  together  for  about  ten  minutes  or  a 
quarter  of  an  hour.     Garnish  with  small  pickles. 

27.  Bubble  and  Squeak.  —  Cut  cold  boiled  beef  in  slices  about  a 
third  of  an  inch  thick.  Fry  them  till  heated  through,  and  of  a 
light  brown;  keep  them  hot  before  the  fire.  Have  ready  chopped 
some  cold  boiled  cabbage;  fry  this  in  the  pan,  stirring  it  well 
about,  and  season  it  with  peppr  and  a  very  little  salt.  Put  the 
cabbage  into  a  dish,  and  l&y  the  meat  around  it. 

28.  To  Prepare  Sausage  Meat— Take  one-third  fat,  and  two- 
thirds  lean,  of  either  pork  or  beef,  chop  it  very  fine,  and  to  every 
twelve  pounds  of  meat  add  twelve  spoonfuls  of  pounded  salt  six 
of  ground  pepper,  and,  if  agreeable,  nine  spoonfuls  of  sifted  sage, 
with  a  little  dried  winter  savory  rub  tied  to  a  powder.  Mix  welh 
and  put  the  meat  into  skins,  or  make  it  into  flat  balls  and  fry  them 
in  hot  fat.  ' 

Bologna  sausages  are  made  of  veal,  pork,  and  ham,  in  equal 
quantities,  chopped  fine  and  seasoned  with  sweet  herbs  and  pep- 
per, then  put  into  skins,  boiled  till  tender,  and  dried. 

29.  Beefsteak  Pudding— Rub  half  a  pound,  of  dripping  or  lard, 
or  suet,  into  a  pound  and  a  half  of  flour,  with  a  pinch  of  salt,  and 
make  it  into  a  stiff  paste  with  as  little  water  as  possible;  then 
having  greased  the  inside  of  your  basin,  lay  a  thin  crust  over  the 
same,  except  just  the  bottom,  as  it  will  else  absorb  all  the  gravy 
now  have  ready  some  pieces  of  steak  or  beef -skirt,  well  seasoned 
with  pepper  and  salt,  put  a  piece  of  fat  at  the  bottom,  then  lay 
an  all  your  meat;  after  which  pour  in  about  a  teacupful  of  broth 
or  water,  then  moisten  the  edges  of  the  crust  round  the  basin  and 
Jay  on  a  cover  of  the  remainder  of  the  paste,  pinching  the  two 


16 

DOMESTIC    COOKERY 


edges  together;  dip  your  cloth  into  hot  water,  flour  it  well,  and 
tie  it  tightly  over  the  pudding.  Put  it  into  a  saucepan  of  boiling 
water,  make  it  boil  up  quickly,  and  keep  it  boiling  from  three  to 
four  hours. 

TO  DRESS  VEGETABLES. 

General  Directions.— Pick  and  wash  greens  thoroughly;  pick 
them  close,  for  an  outside  leaf  will  deteriorate  a  dishful:  split  the 
stems  of  cabbages  across  twice.  They  should  be  washed  in  a  pan 
as  particles  of  sand  or  dust  hang  round  wooden  vessels;  do  not 
pour  or  pump  the  water  on  them,  but  plunge  them  m  thiow  into 
fee  water  a  good  handful  of  salt,  as  that  will  draw  out  worms  or 
other  insects  which  you  cannot  see  without  pulling  the  vegetables 
to  pieces.  All  greens  should  be  boiled  by  themselves,  in  plenty  of 
water,  with  a  good  lump  of  salt:  the  water  should  boil  when  they 
are  put  in,  and  be  kept  boiling;  they  should  be  well  done  or  they 
are  unwholesome;  a  very  little  bit  of  soda  put  into  the  water 
mellows  the  greens  and  preserves  their  color. 

No  directions  can  be  given  as  to  the  time  vegetables  take  foi 
boiling;  much  depends  on  size  and  age.  lo  ascertain  when  they 
are  done,  pass  a  fork  through  the  stem;  if  soft  they  are  done; 
they  begin  to  sink  when  nearly  boiled  enough.  Greens  should  do 
perfectlv  strained  immediately  they  are  done. 

30  To  Dress  Potatoes.— In  general  it  will  be  found  best  to  pare 
them  before  boiling;  thev  should  also  be  as  nearly  of  a  size  as  pos- 
sible, or  the  small  ones  will  break  before  the  large  ones  are  done; 
they  should  be  put  into  cold  water  scarcely  enough  to  cover  them, 
with  a  good  lump  of  salt;  they  should  boil  slowly,  and  when  they 
begin  to  crack  the  water  should  be  poured  off;  then  set  the  sauce- 
pan over  the  fire  with  the  lid  off,  till  they  are  quite  dry  and 
mealv.     On  serving,  cover  them  with  a  clean  napkin. 

31  To  Boil  Green  Peas.—  Peas  should  be  boiled  as  soon  as 
shelled.  Put  them  into  boiling  water  with  a  little  salt;  no  soda, 
as  that  will  break  them.  The  time  they  will  take  depends  on 
their  age;  in  general  about  twenty  minutes  is  enough.  When 
done,  strain  them  through  a  sieve  and  pour  them  into  a  vegetable 
dish  over  a  good  lump  of  butter.  A  few  sprigs  of  green  mint 
should  be  boiled  and  served  up  with  the  peas.  ■ 

32  To  Boil  Beans.— After  shelling,  put  them  into  boiling  water 
with  a  handful  of  salt;  they  will  be  cooked  in  about  half  an  hour •, 
when  the  skins  feel  tender  they  are  done  enough;  strain  them, 
and  serve  them  with  parsley  and  butter. 

33.  Haricot  Beans.— These  are  a  very  agreeable  vegetable,  an£ 
will  be  found  a  good  substitute  for  potatoes  when  the  latter  are 
scarce  and  dear.  They  may  be  dressed  in  several  ways.  As  they 
are  the  dried  seeds  of  the  French  bean,  they  require  soaking  for 
several  hours  before  they  are  fit  to  cook.  Put  them  into  cold 
water  with  salt  in  it,  and  let  them  simmer  for  three  or  tour  hours. 
As  soon  as  they  begin  to  crack,  pour  off  the  water  and  stand  them 
on  the  hob  to  dry.  They  are  eaten  with  the  gravy  of  the  meat 
like  potatoes,  unless  preferred  with  melted  butter. 


18 

DOMESTIC    COOKERY. 


34.  French  or  Scarlet  Beans. — Cut  off  the  two  ends  and  striae 
them,  then  split  and  cut  them  in  two,  throw  them  into  a  pan  of 
clean  water,  and  put  them  into  plenty  of  boiling  water  with  some 
salt  and  a  little  bit  of  soda.  When  they  are  soft,  which  will  be 
in  about  a  quarter  of  an  hour  or  twenty  minutes,  strain 
them  through  a  sieve,  and  serve  them  with  melted  butter  in  a 
boat. 

85.  To  Boil  Turnips. — Pare  your  turnips  pretty  thick,  split 
them  and  boil  them  in  plenty  of  water,  with  salt  in  it,  for  about 
half  an  hour;  try  them  with  a  fork;  if  tender,  they  are  done; 
strain  and  serve  them  with  a  little  melted  butter  in  a  boat,  or 
mash  them  up  with  a  little  butter,  pepper,  and  salt.  They  should 
be  boiled  by  themselves. 

36.  To  Boil  Carrots.— Scrape  and  wash  them,  then  split  them  in 
two,  if  very  large,  into  four,  and  cut  them  across ;  they  require 
long  boiling  to  make  them  soft.  Parsnips  are  dressed  in  the 
same  manner.  When  cold  they  are  very  nice  cut  in  slices  and 
fried. 

87.  To  Boil  Cabbages.— Cut  off  the  stalk,  and  strip  off  the  outer 
leaves,  quarter,  and  wash  them  in  plenty  of  water,  and  leave  them 
to  soak,  top  downwards,  with  a  little  salt  in  the  water,  for  an 
hour  or  two.  Put  them  into  plenty  of  boiling  water,  with  a  good 
handful  of  salt  and  a  bit  of  soda,  and  boil  them  till  the  stalk  feels 
tender.  Cabbages  require  boiling  from  twenty  to  forty  minutes, 
according  to  their  age  and  size.  Drain  them  through  a  colander. 
Greens  may  be  pressed  between  two  plates. 

88.  To  Dress  Cauliflowers. — Having  picked  it  into  small  pieces, 
which  is  absolutely  necessary  in  order  to  remove  the  slugs  with 
which  this  vegetable  abounds,  wash  it  thoroughly  in  several 
waters,  and  let  it  lay  to  soak  for  full  an  hour  before  you  dress  it. 
Put  it  into  a  saucepan  of  boiling  water  with  a  lump  of  salt,  and 
when  tender  it  will  be  done;  let  it  drain  in  a  colander,  and  serve 
it  up  with  melted  butter.  Some  persons  may  prefer  to  see  them 
brought  to  table  whole;  but  they  must  then  take  the  chance  of 
being  helped,  along  with  tho  cauliflower,  to  some  unsightly  insect, 
which  would  be  sufficient  to  disgust  the  least  delicate  stomach; 
besides,  if  properly  boiled,  and  laid  carefully  in  the  dish,  the 
pretty  appearance  of  the  vegetable  is  by  nq  means  destroyed  by  it 
having  been  divided. 

39.  Broccoli  Sprouts. — Pick  and  wash  them  well,  and  boil  them 
in  plenty  of  water,  with  salt  in  it;  when  they  are  tender  strain 
and  let  them  cool ;  when  cold,  to  heat  them  again,  dredge  them 
with  flour,  and  fry  them  in  butter,  sprinkle  them  with  a  little 
salt,  and  serve  them  up. 

40.  To  Dtvss  Spinach. — It  must  be  carefully  picked,  the  yellow 
leaves  removed,  and  the  ends  of  the  stalks  cut  off.  It  requires  to 
be  washed  in  four  or  five  waters,  as  it  is  apt  to  be  gritty.  When 
quite  clean  lay  it  in  a  colander  to  drain.  Put  it  into  a  saucepan 
of  boiling  water,  with  a  large  tablespoonf  ul  of  salt.  When  it  has 
boiled  a  few  minutes  strain  the  water  off,  and  fill  up  again  with 
boiling  water,  adding  salt  as  above.  Keep  it  boiling  till  quite 
tender,  pressing  it  down  frequently,  that  it  may  be  done  all  alike. 
It  will  be  done  enough  in  about  ten  minutes  or  a  quarter  of  an 


17 

DOMESTIC    COOKERY. 


hour.    When  done,  squeeze  it  between  two  plates  till  thoroughly 
dry,  lay  it  on  a  dish,  and  cut  it  quite  through  in  small  squares. 

41.  Asparagus. — Cut  the  heads  about  four  or  five  inches  long; 
scrape  them  and  throw  them  into  cold  water;  tie  them  in  bundles; 
put  them  into  boiling  water  with  plenty  of  salt  in  it;  let  theni 
come  quickly  to  a  boil— they  will  take  from  a  quarter  of  an  hour 
to  twenty  minutes.  When  tender  take  them  up  with  a  slice; 
drain  them  well ;  remove  the  string,  and  lay  the  asparagus  in  a 
dish,  heads  inwards,  on  slices  of  toast  previously  dipped  in  the 
liquor.  Serve  with  melted  butter.  Seakale  is  dressed  in  the  same 
manner. 

42.  Beets. — They  must  not  be  scraped  or  cut,  as  they  would  then 
lose  their  color  and  sweetness.  Salt  the  water,  and  boil  them  for 
an  hour,  in  summer,  and  in  the  winter  for  three  hours.  It  makes 
a  fine  pickle  if  cut  into  slices  when  cold,  and  put  into  vinegar. 

43.  Onions. — Select  the  white  kind,  peel  them,  and  put  them 
into  boiling  milk,  with  a  little  salt,  and  let  them  boil  from  half  an 
hour  to  three-quarters.  Drain  them  through  a  colander  and  serve 
theni  with  melted  butter. 

44.  Tomatoes. — Pour  scalding  water  over  them  to  loosen  the 
skins*,  thus  let  them  remain  for  five  minutes;  then  peel  and  put 
them  into  a  stewpan,  with  a  little  salt  and  butter;  stew  them  for 
half  an  hour ;  then  pour  them  on  buttered  toast.  Tomatoes  are 
best  cooked  slowly. 

45.  Vegetable  Marrow. — If  large,  cut  them  into  quarters:  other- 
wise they  will  not  need  it.  Boil  them  till  soft,  then  peel  them — 
and  some  take  out  the  seeds;  lay  them  on  buttered  toast,  and  pour 
melted  butter  over  them.  They  may  be  served  in  slices  on  toast, 
like  asparagus,  or  mashed,  like  turnips,  with  butter,  pepper  and 
salt,  and  a  little  lemon  peel. 

46.  To  Dress  Mushrooms.—  Cut  off  the  lower  part  of  the  stem, 
peel,  and  put  them  into  a  saucepan,  with  just  enough  water  to 
keep  them  from  burning:  put  in  a  little  salt,  and  shake  them 
occasionally.  When  tender  flavor  them  with  butter,  pepper  and 
salt;  add  wine  and  spice  if  agreeable.    Serve  on  buttered  toast. 

47.  To  Coon  Bice. — Pick,  and  wash  it  in  cold  water.  To  a  pint 
of  rice  put  three  quarts  of  boiling  water  and  a  teaspoon  ful  of  salt. 
Let  it  boil  just  seventeen  minutes  from  the  time  it  fairly  comes  to 
a  boil;  then  pour  off  all  the  water  ?  and  set  it  over  a  moderate  fire 
with  the  saucepan  uncovered ;  let  it  steam  fifteen  minutes.  Accu- 
racy with  regard  to  time  is  very  important. 

48.  Artichokes. — Boil  them  till  tender,  let  them  drain,  and  serve 
them  with  melted  butter.  They  must  be  well  washed  and  soaked 
before  cooking. 

49.  Jerusalem  ArticJwkes. — Scrape  and  wash  them  clean,  and 
put  them  into  boiling  water  with  salt  in  it;  large  ones  will  require 
boiling  for  two  hours.     When  done  take  them  up  and  butter  them. 

50.  A  Dressed  Salad. — Take  small  salad,  lettuce,  endive,  celery, 
radishes,  and  young  onions:  pick  and  wash  them  quite  clean,  cut 
them  up  in  small  pieces,  put  them  into  a  salad-bowl  or  deep  dish, 
and  pour  over  them  the  following  dressing: — Bruise  the  yolk  of  a 
cold,  hard-boiled  egg  with  the  back  of  a  spoon  on  a  plate,  then 
pour  on  it  about  a  teaspoonful  of  cold  water  and  the  same  meas- 


Is 

DOMESTIC    COOKERY. 


ureof  salt;  rub  all  together  till  it  becomes  smooth  like  a  thick 
paste;  add  a  teaspoonful  of  made  mustard,  and  when  this  is  well 
■mixed  also  add  and  mix  a  tablespoon! ul  of  salad-oil  or  cold  melted 
butter;  after  this  add  and  mix  two  tablespoon fuls  of  vinegar. 
Ornament  the  top  of  the  salad  with  small  bite  of  the  white  of  the 
egg  and  pickled  beet-root  alternately. 


ROASTING  MEAT. 

General  Remarks. — In  roasting  meat  it  is  necessary  to  have 
a  good  clear  fire,  in  size  according  to  your  joint,  to  keep  the  joint 
constantly  in  motion,  so  that  it  may  not  scorch,  but  be  cooked 
equally  in  every  part,  and  to  baste  infrequently  with  its  own  drip- 
ping. When  two-thirds  done  sprinkle  it  with  salt.  A  screen 
should  be  placed  round  the  fire  to  keep  in  the  heat. 

51.  To  Roast  Beef. — Do  not  wash  meat  before  putting  it  down  to 
roast,  as  that  will  prevent  its  browning.  Wipe  it  clean  with  a 
clean  cloth,  and  hang  it  before  the  fire,  which  must  act  on  all 
parts  as  uniformly  as  possible.  The  fire  should  be  clear,  free  from 
all  smoky  coals  in  front,  and  of  a  strength  according  to  what  you 
have  to  roast.  Do  not  place  the  meat  too  near  at  first,  or  you  will 
have  it  browned  on  the  outside  before  it  is  warm  within.  It  is 
usual  to  allow  a  quarter  of  an  hour  to  every  pound  of  meat ;  but 
much  of  course  will  depend  on  the  strength  of  the  fire,  and  some- 
thing also  on  the  staleness  or  freshness  of  the  meat.  Fresh  meat 
require  more  time  to  cook  than  that  which  is  stale.  When  about 
half  done  sprinkle  it  with  salt.  A  well-roasted  joint  should  have  a 
nice,  rich  brown  tinge  all  over;  and,  in  order  to  obtain  this,  atten- 
tion to  the  fire,  and  careful,  frequent  basting,  is  indispensable, 
as  well  as  judgment  to  remove  it  when  it  is  sufficiently  cooked. 
As  it  approaches  the  proper  time  the  steam  will  be  drawn  towards 
the  fire.  When  your  joint  is  done  lay  it  in  a  clean  hot  dish,  pour 
off  all  the  fat,  and  pour  the  nice  brown  gravy  at  the  bottom  of  the 
dripping-pan  over  the  meat,  but  no  hot  water,  or  you  will  infalli- 
bly spoil  the  flavor  of  both  gravy  and  meat.  Good  meat  will  fur- 
nish sufficient  gravy  when  cut.     Garnish  with  scraped  horseradish. 

52.  To  Roast  Mutton. — Mutton  requires  more  cooking  than  beef  , 
the  latter  being  by  many  preferred  somewhat  underdone.  A 
shoulder  of  mutton  particularly,  if  it  be  not  sufficiently  roasted, 
has  a  strong  woolly  flavor ;  the  fat  tastes  rancid,  and  is  apt  to 
spoil  the  appetite  of  a  delicate  stomach ;  if,  on  the  contrary,  it  be 
nicely  roasted  brown,  without  being  burned,  and  well  basted,  it  is 
a  delicious  dish.  Like  beef,  it  must  not  be  placed  too  near  the  fire 
at  first,  but  must  be  suffered  to  become  gradually  hot  through, 
and  kept  constantly  turned.  When  you  think  it  is  about  half 
done  sprinkle  a  good  bit  of  salt  all  over  it,  which  is  the  general  rule 
for  all  roasted  meat.  When  it  is  done  pour  away  the  whole  of  the 
fat,  and  what  little  gravy  remains  at  the  bottom  of  the  dish  may 
be  served  up  with  the  mutton.  If  it  be  good  meat,  the  gravy  will 
follow  the  knife  as  it  is  cut.     Serve  it  up  with  onion-sauce. 

A  leg  of  mutton  is  roasted  in  the  same  manner,  except  that,  be- 
ing a  much  leaner  joint,  and  the  fat  of  a  milder  nature,  it  does  not 


19 

DOMESTIC    COOKERY. 


require  so  much  cooking.  The  same  may  be  said  of  the  loin  and 
the  best  end  of  the  neck,  care  being  taken  to  cut  off  the  fat  suffi- 
cientljT  close  before  roasting. 

53.  To  Roast  Venison. — Venison  is  roasted  in  the  same  way  as 
mutton,  only  it  requires  more  time.  Cover  it  with  buttered  paper 
and  paste  before  you  set  it  down  to  roast ;  otherwise,  it  being  such 
a  dry  sort  of  meat,  and  the  little  fat  there  is  being  so  easily  melted, 
the  fire  will  draw  out  all  the  juices,  and  it  will  prove  dry  and 
tasteless.  Baste  it  constantly,  and  serve  it  with  a  good  gravy  and 
currant  jelly. 

54.  To  Roast  Lamb. — Lamb  requires  to  be  well  roasted,  as  if  not 
sufficiently  done,  it  will  fail  to  acquire  that  delicate  taste  so  pe- 
culiar to  it.  It  is  commonly  dressed  in  quarters.  Lamb  should 
be  well  jointed,  or  chopped  by  the  butcher,  as  it  is  such  a  delicate 
sort  of  meat  that  it  becomes  altogether  disfigured  if  the  carver  is 
compelled  to  hack  and  pull  it  in  pieces.  In  roasting,  baste  with 
its  own  dripping,  and,  after  pouring  off  all  the  fat,  serve  it  up  in 
a  hot  dish  with  the  gravy  that  remains  after  the  fat  is  poured  off. 
In  serving  up  a  fore-quarter,  the  cook  should  divide  the  shoulder 
neatly  from  the  ribs,  and,  after  squeezing  the  juice  of  half  a 
lemon  on  the  ribs  cover  the  shoulder  closely  over  again.  It  is 
usual  to  send  up  with  lamb  mint-sauce  in  a  tureen. 

55.  To  Roast  Veal. — All  parts  of  veal  are  good  roasted,  except- 
ing the  scrag  end  of  the  neck,  which  is  commonly  used  for  stew- 
ing or  making  pies.  Roast  veal  is  much  improved  by  a  stuffing 
composed  of  chopped  suet  and  parsley,  lemon-peel,  a  little  thyme, 
savory,  marjoram,  a  little  grated  nutmeg  and  bread-crumbs, 
seasoned  with  pepper  and  salt,  all  mixed  together  with  an  egg. 
The  bones  should  be  carefully  taken  out,  and  the  stuffing  put  in. 
their  place ;  then  cover  your  veal  with  buttered  paper  to  prevent 
it  burning,  and  set  it  down  before  a  strong,  clear  fire,  not  too  close 
at  first,  as  it  requires  more  di^essing  than  beef  or  mutton,  it  being 
extremely  unwholesome  if  underdone.  When  nearly  enough 
roasted,  take  off  the  paper  and  let  it  brown;  sprinkle  it  with  salt, 
and  baste  it  well  either  with  its  own  dripping,  or,  if  there  be  not 
enough,  with  lamb  dripping  or  butter.  Pour  melted  butter  over 
it  before  sending  it  to  table.  Garnish  with  lemon  cut  in  quarters 
or  sliced. 

56.  To  Roast  Pork.— Pork  should  at  all  times  be  perfectly  well 
done,  and  therefore  requires  a  longer  time  to  roast  than  any  other 
meat.  Pork  is  much  more  savoiy  when  stuffed  with  chopped 
sage  and  onions  and  bread-crumbs,  seasoned  with  pepper  and  salt. 
The  outer  rind  should  be  neatly  scored,  to  enable  the  carver  to 
cut  slices  more  easily.  Before  setting  it  down  to  roast,  rub  the 
skin  with  salad-oil  to  prevent  its  blistering,  and  baste  it  frequent- 
ly.  Serve  it  with  apple  sauce  in  a  tureen  or  boat.  The  onions 
should  be  boiled  a  little  before  being  chopped  for  the  stuffing. 

57.  To  Roast  Sucking  Pig. — When  the  pig  is  properly  prepared 
and  cleaned  by  the  butcher,  cut  off  the  feet,  and  making  a  stuffing 
of  chopped  sage,  crumbs  of  bread,  butter,  pepper,  and  salt,  ac- 
cording to  your  taste  and  judgment,  but  let  the  bread  be  the 
principal  ingredient ;  fill  the  inside  of  the  pig  with  the  stuffing, 
and  sew  up  the  slit.     Baste  with  butter.     It  will  require  from  twe 


20 

DOMESTIC    COOKERY. 


to  three  hours'  roasting,  according  to  the  size.  The  skin  should 
be  nicely  browned  and  crisp.  Before  sending  it  to  table,  split  it 
down  the  back  from  head  to  tail,  and  lay  it,  with  the  skin  side 
uppermost,  flat  in  the  dish.  The  head  is  cut  off  and  a  half  laid 
at  each  end.  Take  out  the  brains,  and  having  previously  boiled 
the  liver,  chop  it  up  with  the  brains,  and  mix  them  together  with 
veal  or  beef  gravy  in  a  small  tureen.     Apple-sauce  as  for  pork. 

58.  To  Roast  Ox  Heart.— Having  emptied  out  all  the  blood, 
wash  it  well  and  dry  it  with  a  clean  cloth,  cut  off  the  deaf -ears, 
which  lay  to  soak  in  a  little  lukewarm  water.  Fill  all  the  open- 
ings  of  the  heart  with  a  good  veal  stuffing,  and  cover  the  top  with 
a  sheet  of  writing-paper  to  prevent  scorching;  suspend  it  with 
the  pointed  end  downwards,  and  keep  it  well  basted.  It  will  re- 
quire about  two  hours  to  roast,  as  it  should  be  well  done.  When 
nearly  roasted  or  done  enough,  take  off  the  paper  and  let  it 
brown.  While  the  heart  is  roasting,  put  the  deaf  ears  into  a 
clean  saucepan,  with  a  little  water,  some  salt,  an  onion,  and 
a  few  allspice ;  let  it  stew  gently,  and  keep  it  well  skimmed. 
About  a  quarter  of  an  hour  before  you  serve  up  the  heart,  put  a 
crust  of  bread  nicely  browned  into  your  gravy,  with  a  lump  of 
butter  rolled  in  flour;  let  it  mix  and  boil  up,  then  strain  it  through 
a  sieve,  and  after  skimming  off  all  the  fat  from  the  dripping-pan. 
put  the  gravy  that  remains  at  the  bottom,  along  with  that 
which  you  have  made,  back  into  the  gravy  saucepan,  and  boil  all 
together.  Lay  the  heart  in  a  very  hot  dish  set  over  another  filled 
with  boiling  water,  pour  a  little  of  the  gi'avy  over  it,  and  send 
up  the  remainder  in  a  hot  tureen.  This  is  a  very  nice  savory 
dish,  but  it  chills  so  soon  that  the  plates  and  dishes  must  be  very 
hot;  indeed,  hot- water  plates  are  always  used  by  those  who  have 
them.  Some  persons  boil  the  heart  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour  be- 
fore putting  it  down  to  roast,  in  order  to  prevent  its  chilling  too 
soon. 

What  remains  cold  will  be  found  extremely  nice  made  into  a 
hash  the  next  day.  It  should  be  cut  in  thin  slices  with  what  stuff- 
ing there  may  be  left,  and  warmed  up  with  the  gravy;  a  spoonful 
of  catsup  will  be  found  a  great  improvement.  Shake  it  well  to- 
gether, and  pour  it  into  a  deep  dish  over  thin  snippets  of  toasted 
bread. 


BOILING   MEAT. 

General  Dirhctions. — Meat  should  be  boiled  in  a  vessel  large 
enough  to  contain  it  easity,  so  that  it  may  have  perfect  freedom 
and  sufficient  water,  otherwise  it  will  be  hard  and  discolored;  but 
too  large  a  pot  will  leave  unnecessary  space,  which  ought  to  be 
avoided. 

Before  putting  your  joint  into  the  pot,  put  in  a  plate  turned  up- 
side-down, so  that  the  water  may  get  to  every  part,  and  the  meat 
may  not  stick  to  the  bottom.  All  kinds  of  meat  should  be  put 
into  cold  soft  water;  and  with  fresh  meat  throw  in  a  little  salt  to 
raise  the  scum.  The  water  should  not  be  suffered  to  come  to  a 
boil  too  quickly,  and  just  before  it  boils  the  scum  should  be  re- 
moved, and  for  a  few  minutes  afterwards:  for  if  the  scum  be  suf- 


21 

DOMESTIC    COOKERY. 


fered  to  boil  down,  it  will  render  the  meat  black.  When  it  is 
skimmed,  quite  clean,  cover  the  pot  and  set  it  aside,  so  that  it  may 
only  simmer,  taking  great  care,  however,  that  it  never  ceases  to  do 
so.  Should  the  water  waste  in  the  boiling,  it  will  be  necessary  to 
add  more,  so  as  to  keep  the  meat  covered;  in  this  case  boiling 
water  must  be  used.  If  the  meat  be  boiled  in  a  cloth  it  will  be 
whiter,  but  the  liquor  will  be  spoiled.  It  is  usual  to  allow  a 
quarter  of  an  hour  to  every  pound  of  meat,  reckoning  from  the 
time  the  water  begins  to  boil ;  but  this  is  by  no  means  an  infalli- 
ble rule,  as  some  parts  of  meat  require  much  more  cooking  than 
others.  A  piece  of  brisket  of  beef,  for  instance,  requires  much 
more  time  for  cooking  than  a  piece  of  the  round  of  the  same 
weight ;  and  you  would  surely  spoil  the  best  end  of  the  neck  of 
mutton  by  boiling  it  the  same  length  of  time  as  the  breast.  The 
cook  must  use  her  own  judgment  on  these  matters.  When  meat 
is  perfectly  fresh  it  requires  more  time  for  cooking  than  when 
stale  or  long  killed.  Good  meat  invariably  swells  in  boiling. 

If  corned  meat  be  too  salt,  you  may  pour  off  the  water  after 
it  has  boiled  a  few  minutes,  and  replace  it  with  fresh. 

59.  To  Boil  a  Salted  Round  of  Beef  .—  Rinse  it  in  a  pan  of  cold 
water,  cut  out  the  bone,  roll  it  round  firmly,  and  bind  it  fast  with 
a  broad  tape ;  put  it  into  the  pot  and  cover  the  lid  close ;  keep  it 
gently  simmering,  taking  care  to  skim  before  it  comes  to  a  boil ; 
allow  a  quarter  of  an  hour  to  each  pound  of  beef.  The  vegetables 
served  with  salt  beef  are  carrots  and  greens,  and  sometimes  tur- 
nips are  added.  When  you  dish  it  up,  pour  over  the  meat  a  very 
little  of  the  liquor  in  which  it  has  been  boiled.  Do  not,  if  30U 
can  avoid  it,  boil  any  vegetables  with  the  meat. 

60.  To  Boil  an  Aitch-bone  of  Beef. — Follow  the  directions  given 
for  the  round,  only  that  a  large  one  will  take  less  time  in  propor- 
tion; for  instance,  one  weighing  twenty  pounds  will  be  done  in 
rather  less  than  four  hours. 

61.  To  Boil  a  Piece  of  BHsket  of  Beef  or  Thin  Flank.— These  are 
boiled  in  the  same  way  as  the  round,  only  that  they  require  much 
longer  boiling,  being  of  so  close  a  texture,  and  the  fat  of  such  a 
peculiar  nature,  that,  if  not  sufficiently  cooked,  the  meat  will  be 
hard  and  spongy,  and  will  taste  extremely  disagreeable ;  so  much 
so  that  persons  who  have  once  partaken  of  those  parts  under- 
boiled  wall  feel  very  unwilling  to  eat  of  them  again.  A  piece  of 
brisket  or  thin  flank  of  beef,  weighing  eight  pounds,  will  take  four 
hours'  boiling.  To  know  if  it  be  boiled  enough,  you  may  insert  a 
fork  through  the  meat  a  little  way,  and  if  it  feel  soft,  then  it  is 
done.  Peas-pudding  is  good  with  boiled  beef.  Brisket  of  beef 
if  to  be  eaten  cold,  should  be  laid  on  a  board,  and  a  heavy  weight 
should  be  set  on  it,  to  press  out  all  the  loose  fat;  it  then  cuts 
smooth  and  solid. 

*  63.  To  Boil  a  Leg  of  Mutton. — If  your  pot  be  not  long  enough 
to  let  the  leg  lie  straight,  you  may  cut  the  tendon  at  the  joint  and 
bend  round  the  shank.  Do  not  put  in  too  much  water,  as  the 
liquor  will  make  good  broth.  Throw  a  little  salt  into  the  water 
when  you  put  in  the  mutton,  as  that  will  make  the  scum  rise, 
which  must  be  taken  off  clean.  Let  it  boil  slowly  and  equally.  A 
good-sized  leg  of  mutton,  say  of  eight  pounds,  will  be  done  suffi- 


22 

DOMESTIC    COOKERY. 


ciently  in  two  hours.  Do  not  boil  turnips  or  any  other  vegetable 
with  the  meat,  as  they  will  flavor  it,  and  prevent  its  keeping  so 
well  when  cold.  Dish  it  with  a  very  little  of  the  liquor,  as  if  the 
meat  be  good,  and  not  too  much  boiled,  it  will  yield  sufficient 
gravy  when  cut.  Mashed  turnips  form  the  appropriate  vegetable 
to  this  dish,  with  caper  sauce. 

63.  Neck  of  Mutton  is  dressed  the  same  as  the  leg.  The  breast 
requires  more  boiling  and  will  take  half  an  hour  to  the  pound. 
Serve  with  parsley  and  butter. 

64.  To  Boil  a  Leg  of  Lamb. — A  leg  of  lamb  is  a  delicate  dish 
when  nicely  boiled.  If  whiteness  is  desirable,  wrap  it  in  a  clean 
cloth;  only  the  liquor  will  then  be  spoiled  for  broth.  Boil  one  of 
five  pounds  gently  for  about  an  hour  and  a  half.  When  you  dish 
it  cut  the  loin  into  chops,  fry  them,  and  lay  round  it.  Sauce  plain 
melted  butter,  or  parsley  and  butter. 

65.  To  Boil  a  Leg  of  Veal.— Take  out  the  bone,  and  fill  the  space 
with  a  stuffing  made  of  bread  crumbs,  minced  salt  pork,  suet 
chopped  fine,  parsley,  sweet  herbs,  pepper,  salt;  sew  up  the  opening, 
or  draw  the  flap  over  it,  and  skewer  it  down.  Put  it  into  a  long- 
pot,  and  cover  it  with  cold  water  with  a  tablespoonful  of  salt; 
skim  it  well,  and  let  it  simmer  slowly  till  done  enough,  which  may 
be  ascertained  by  passing  a  fork  into  it.  Serve  with  parsley  and 
butter,  or  oyster-sauce.  The  liquor  will  make  excellent  soup  or 
broth  with  the  addition  of  vegetables. 

66.  To  Boil  a  Knuckle  of  Veal. — Break,  or  rather  saw  the 
knuckle  into  pieces;  wash,  and  put  it  into  plenty  of  water,  with  a 
little  salt;  let  it  boil  gently  for  two  or  three  hours,  accord- 
ing to  the  size ;  it  requires  to  be  well  boiled,  in  order  to  soften  the 
sinews,  which,  when  sufficiently  done,  are  most  delicious;  you 
must  keep  it  well  skimmed,  as  the  liquor  is  excellent  for  broth  or 
soup.  It  is  eaten  with  boiled  ham,  bacon,  or  pickled  pork.  When 
dished,  pour  over  it  some  good  parsley  and  butter. 

67.  To  Boil  a  Chump  of  Veal.— Wrap  the  joint  in  a  cloth  in 
order  to  have  it  white  arid  delicate;  put  it  into  a  pot  with  a  little 
salt  and  cover  it  with  water;  let  it  simmer  gently  for  about  an 
hour  and  a  half  after  it  comes  to  a  boii.  When  done,  fry  some 
thin  rashers  of  ham  or  bacon,  lay  them  round  it  on  the  dish,  and 
serve  it  up  with  oyster-sauce. 

68.  To  Boil  a  Calfs  Head.— Wash  and  cleanse  the  head  thorough- 
ly;  take  out  the  brains  and  soak  them  in  cold  water,  and  pick 
them  quite  clean.  Boil  the  head  slowly  for  an  hour  and  a  half ; 
then  put  the  brains  into  a  small  saucepan,  and  boil  them  in  half  a 
pint  of  the  liquor  for  halt  an  hour.  Then  take  up  the  head  in  a 
dish,  mash  the  brains  and  season  them  with  pepper  and  salt: 
turn  them  back  into  the  little  saucepan,  add  a  few  bread-crumbs,  a 
lump  of  butter  rolled  in  flour,  and  a  glass  of  wine;  shake  all  well 
together,  just  give  it  a  boil,  and  serve  it  for  sauce,  either  poured 
over  the  head,  or  separately  in  a  boat.  The  liquor  will  make  ex* 
cellent  soup  the  next  day. 

69.  To  Boil  a  Sheep's  Head. — Soak  and  wash  the  head  well  in  cold 
water,  taking  care  to  remove  all  the  splinters  of  the  bones,  and  to 
clean  the  brains  thoroughly  of  all  the  skin  and  blood.  Put  it  into 
a  saucepan,  cover  it  with  lukewarm  water  and  a  good  spoonful  of 


23 

DOMESTIC    COOKERY. 


salt;  let  it  boil  very  gently,  skimming  it  well  from  time  to  time. 
When  it  has  boiled  about  an  hour,  take  off  all  the  fat;  and  having 
cut  up  a  good-sized  onion,  two  turnips,  a  carrot,  a  small  head  of  cel- 
ery, and  a  sprig  or  two  of  parsley,  put  them  into  the  broth  with  a 
little  thyme  and  a  crust  of  bread  toasted  brown;  cover  up  the 
saucepan,  and  let  the  broth  simmer  gently  for  an  hour  and  a  half, 
when  the  head  will  be  done.  Serve  it  up  with  the  brains  chop- 
ped up  in  melted  butter,  poured  over  it,  and  turnips  in  another 
dish.     Serve  the  broth,  which  will  be  excellent,  in  a  tureen. 

70.  To  Boil  Pickled  Pork. — Having  washed  and  scraped  it,  put 
it  into  boiling  water  with  the  skin  side  uppermost.  If  it  be  thin,  a 
piece  of  four  pounds  will  be  done  in  less  than  an  hour;  a  leg  of  eight 
pounds  will  take  three  hours.  Pork  should  be  done  enough ;  but 
if  boiled  too  fast  or  too  long,  it  will  become  jelly.  Keep  the  pot 
well  skimmed,  and  send  it  to  table  with  peas-pudding  and 
greens. 

71.  To  Boil  Bacon  and  Beayis. — These  must  be  boiled  sepa- 
rately, otherwise  the  bacon  will  spoil  the  color  of  the  beans.  Soak 
the  bacon  for  an  hour  or  two  in  cold  water,  trim  and  scrape  it  as 
clean  as  possible,  and  put  it  into  enough  cold  water  to  cover  it ; 
set  it  over  a  slow  fire,  so  that  it  will  be  half  an  hour  before  it  comes 
to  a  boil ;  then  skim  it  and  let  it  boil  gently  till  done.  Two  or  three 
pounds  wall  require  an  hour  and  a  half  after  it  boils ;  the  hock 
or  gammon,  being  thick,  will  require  more  time.  When  done 
enough,  strip  off  the  rind ;  and  your  beans  in  the  meantime  having 
been  boiled  and  strained,  put  them  into  a  deep  dish,  lay  the  bacon 
upon  them,  and  send  them  to  table,  with  parsley  and  butter  in  a 
boat. 

73.  To  Boil  a  Ham. — If  the  ham  has  been  long  cured,  soak  it  in 
cold  water  for  from  twelve  to  twenty  hours.  Scrape  it  and  put 
it  into  a  large  vessel  to  boil  with  plenty  of  cold  water,  and  let  it 
simmer  gently  from  three  to  four  or  five  hours,  according  to  the 
size.  A  ham  of  twenty  pounds  will  require  four  hours  and  a  half. 
Skim  the  pot  frequently,  to  remove  the  grease  as  it  rises.  When 
done,  strip  off  the  rind,  and  stew  bread  raspings  over  the  top  side ; 
then  set  it  before  the  fire,  or  in  the  oven,  to  dry  and  brown. 
Some  persons  prefer  to  bake  a  ham ;  it  is  then  necessary,  after 
soaking  and  scraping,  to  inclose  it  in  a  paste  of  flour  and  water 
before  sending  it  to  the  oven. 

73.  To  Boil  a  Tongue. — Soak  it  all  night  before  using,  and  be 
careful  to  wash  out  the  salt,  which  is  put  into  various  crevices  to 
preserve  it.  Boil  it  in  plenty  of  water  from  two  hours  and  a  half 
to  three  hours.  Remove  the  skin  before  sending  it  to  table,  and 
garnish  with  parsley. 

74.  To  Boil  Tripe. — Wash  it  clean  and  put  it  on  to  boil  in  plenty 
of  water  with  four  or  six  moderately  sized  onions.  When  the 
onions  are  quite  soft  the  tripe  will  be  boiled  enough.  Serve  it 
with  the  onions  in  a  hash-dish  with  a  little  of  the  liquor  in  which 
it  has  been  boiled,  and  plain  melted  butter  on  a  boat. 

75.  To  Boil  Cow  Heel.— Cow  heel  should  be  boiled  till  the  bones 
will  slip  out,  with  an  onion  and  some  salt  in  the  water.  Serve  with 
parsley  and  butter. 


DOMESTIC    COOKERY. 


FRYING. 

General  Remarks.— In  frying  much  depends  on  the  pan  be- 
ing in  good  condition  and  perfectly  clean.  If  it  be  thin,  it  soon 
becomes  so  hot  that  it  either  scorches  the  meat  or  sets  the  fat 
alight;  and  if  it  be  not  clean  to  a  nicety,  it  discolors  the  meat  and 
gives  it  a  bad  flavor.  It  should  never  be  cleansed  with  anything 
but  fat ;  washing  it  with  water  makes  it  rusty.  After  frying  fish, 
turn  the  pan  over  the  fire  for  a  minute  or  two ;  this  will  destroy 
the  smell  and  taste  of  the  fish.  The  fire  should  be  clear  and  brisk, 
not  blazing,  but  strong. 

Lard  or  dripping  is  best  to  use  for  frying  in.  To  know  if  the 
fat  be  the  right  heat,  throw  in  a  bit  of  bread,  which  should  fry  a 
light  brown.  Shake  the  pan  constantly  while  frying,  to  prevent 
the  meat  sticking  or  burning.  Drain  the  fat  off  your  fish  or  meat 
by  laying  them  on  a  wire  sieve. 

76.  To  Fry  Sausages. — Sausages  require  to  be  dressed  very 
slowly.  Before  you  put  them  into  the  pan  prick  them  in  several 
places  with  a  fine  fork,  to  prevent  them  bursting;  put  a  lump  of 
dripping  into  a  clean  frying-pan,  and  as  soon  as  it  is  melted,  but 
before  it  becomes  hot,  put  in  the  sausages ;  shake  the  pan  fre- 
quently, so  that  they  may  not  stick;  let  them  get  hot  very  gradual- 
ly, and  brown  them  nicely  all  over.  When  done  lay  them  on  a 
hot  dish  before  the  fire. 

77.  To  Fry  Liver  and  Bacon. — Wash  the  liver,  but  do  not  soak 
it;  dry  it,  and  cut  it  in  slices  rather  thin;  then  scrape  your  bacon, 
cut  off  the  rind,  and  slice  it  very  thin ;  make  your  pan  hot,  and 
fry  the  bacon  quickly,  and  not  too  much ;  it  will  yield  sufficient 
fat  in  which  to  fry  the  liver;  lay  the  bacon  in  a  hot  dish  before 
the  fire,  and  fry  the  liver,  which  also  should  not  be  too  much 
done,  or  it  will  be  dry.  When  the  liver  is  done  enough  lay  it  over 
the  bacon,  and  pour  mto  the  pan  half  a  cupful  of  flour  and  water 
with  a  little  pepper,  but  no  salt;  stir  it  well  about,  and  strain 
whatever  fat  or  gravy  may  be  in  the  dish,  under  the  liver  and 
bacon,  into  the  pan,  let  it  boil  up,  then  pour  it  over  the  meat,  or 
garnish  with  sliced  lemon. 

78.  To  Fry  Beefsteaks  and  Onions. — Cut  the  steaks  about 
three-quarters  of  an  inch  thick;  put  a  good  lump  of  dripping  or 
lard  mto  your  pan,  and  when  it  is  hot  lay  in  the  steaks;  turn  them 
frequently,  so  that  they  may  not  burn ;  let  them  be  nicely  browned 
all  over,  and,  when  cooked,  lay  them  in  a  hot  dish  before  the  fire; 
meantime,  have  in  readiness  a  plateful  of  onions,  sliced  very  thin, 
and  sprinkled  with  pepper  and  salt ;  put  them  into  the  pan,  and 
lay  a  dish  over  them  to  keep  in  the  steam ;  turn  them  about,  and 
let  them  be  cooked  thoroughly.  They  will  require  a  long  time; 
they  should  be  soft  and  brown ;  when  done  pour  them  over  the 
steaks  and  serve  up  hot. 

79.  To  Fry  Veal  Cutlets.— Veal  cutlets  should  be  fried  either  in 
veal  dripping  or  butter.  Cut  them  half  an  inch  thick,  beat  up  an 
egg,  and  with  a  whisk  lay  it  over  the  cutlet  on  eache  side ;  after 
which  dip  it  in  bread-crumbs  and  lay  it  in  the  pan.  Dress  cutlets 
slowly  and  thoroughly,  of  a  light  brown.  For  gravy,  take  half  a 
cupful  of  water  thickened  with  flour,  a  lump  of  butter,  a  little 
pepper  and  salt,  a  pinch  of  sweet  herbs  rubbed  fine,  and  a  little 


25 

DOMESTIC    COOKERY. 


lemon- juice;  mix  all  together  and  put  into  the  pan;  boil  it  up  and 
pour  it  over  the  cutlets.  It  is  usual  to  fry  bacon  or  ham  with  veal 
cutlets,  and  to  serve  them  in  a  separate  dish.  Lamb  chops  are 
fried  in  the  same  way. 

80.  To  Fry  Pork  Chops. — Cut  them  rather  thin,  and  cook  them 
thoroughly.  They  are  more  savory  if  dipped  in  yolk  of  egg  and 
strewed  over  with  sage  and  onion  finely  chopped  and  mixed  with 
bread-crumbs  previous  to  frying. 

81.  To  Fry  Bacon  and  Eggs. — Cut  the  bacon  in  thin  rashers 
and  fry  it  as  before  directed;  when  done  lay  it  in  a  hot  dish  before 
the  fire.  Break  the  eggs  in  separate  cups  and  place  them  gently  in 
the  pan;  keep  them  in  a  round  flat  shape.  When  the  white  is  set 
take  them  out  of  the  pan  with  a  slice,  and  place  an  egg  on  each 
rasher. 

82.  To  Fry  Tripe. — Wash  the  tripe,  and  dry  it  well  in  a  cloth. 
Cut  it  in  long  pieces  about  three  inches  wide.  Make  a  thick  batter 
of  egg,  flour,  milk,  a  little  minced  onion,  and  a  little  salt.  Dip  the 
tripe"into  the  batter  and  fry  it  in  lard  or  good  dripping,  of 
winch  there  must  be  sufficient  in  the  pan  almost  to  cover  the  tripe. 
Fry  it  of  a  light  brown,  and  garnish  with  fried  parsley. 

83.  To  Fry  Parsley. — Fried  Parsley  is  used  only  for  garnishing. 
It  must  be  well  dried  first,  and  then  fried  in  hot  butter  or  drip- 
ping. Lay  it  on  a  sieve  before  the  fire  to  drain  the  fat  from  it. 
In  garnishing,  place  it  round  the  edge  of  the  dish. 


BROILING. 

General  Directions. — For  broiling,  the  fire  should  be  brisk 
and  perfectly  clear;  a  good  strong  cinder  fire  is  best.  Set  the 
gridiron  over  for  a  minute  or  two  to  get  hot,  then  wipe  it  quite 
clean  with  a  clean  damp  cloth — do  not  use  paper:  then  rub  a  bit 
of  hard  dripping  or  suet  over  the  bars,  to  prevent  the  meat  stick- 
ing to  them.  Put  the  lean  of  the  meat  on  the  back  part  of  the 
gridiron,  and  the  fat  in  the  front;  pepper  your  meat  before  you 
lay  it  on,  but  do  not  salt  it,  as  that  draws  out  the  gravy.  Turn 
the  meat  once  or  twice,  but  do  not  insert  a  fork  for  that  purpose. 
Do  not  beat  the  meat  before  broiling;  it  will  not  make  tough  meat 
tender,  and  it  expels  the  juices. 

Broiled  meat  should  be  cooked  quickly,  and  served  quite  hot; 
on  taking  it  off  the  gridiron,  lay  it  on  a  hot  dish,  sprinkle  it  with 
salt,  and  lay  a  good  lump  of  butter  over  it.  Some  persons  like 
catsup  or  walnut-liquor  with  broiled  meat ;  others  like  the  dish 
rubbed  with  a  shallot. 

84.  To  Broil  Beefsteaks.— Beefsteaks,  when  properly  broiled, 
form  a  dish  which  is  generally  liked.  The  gridiron  should  be 
thoroughly  clean,  not  only  on  the  tops  of  the  bars,  but  on  the  sides 
also.  Cut  the  steaks  about  three-quarters  of  an  inch  thick;  dust 
them  with  pepper  before  laying  them  on  the  gridiron ;  they  ought 
not  to  be  turned  too  frequently ;  indeed,  some  persons  turn  them 
only  once;  this,  however,  depends  greatly  on  the  taste  of  those 
who  are  to  partake  of  them ;  because,  while  some  persons  prefer 
them  in  a  half-raw  state,  others  like  them  well  done.    Rub  a  hot 


26 

DOMESTIC    COOKERY. 


dish  with  a  shallot,  place  the  steaks  when  cooked  in  the  dish,  and 
rub  them  over  with  a  lump  of  butter,  sprinkle  them  with  salt, 
and  serve  them  up  hot.  They  should  be  eaten  immediately; 
every  moment  they  stand  they  become  deteriorated  in  proportion. 
Either  oyster-sauce  or  niushroom-sauco  may  be  used  when  any  is 
required. 

85.  To  Broil  Mutton  Chops. — Mutton  chops  should  not  be  broil- 
ed on  too  fierce  a  fire,  otherwise  the  fat  will  cause  the  fire  to  flare, 
and  the  chops  will  be  smoked  and  blackened.  Pepper  them  the 
same  as  beefsteaks;  but,  unlike  those,  mutton  chops  require  con- 
stant turning.  They  should  not  be  overdone.  "When  done  enough, 
lay  them  in  a  hot  dish  and  sprinkle  with  salt;  they  require  no 
butter,  the  chops  being  sufficiently  fat. 

86.  To  Broil  Ham,—  Cut  the  ham  about  the  third  of  an  inch 
thick,  and  broil  it  very  quickly  over  a  brisk  fire;  lay  it  on  a  hob 
dish,  pepper  it,  and  put  on  it  a  good  lump  of  butter. 

87.  To  Broil,  i\)rk  Chops.— These  should  not  be  cut  quite  so  thick 
as  mutton  chops,  and  require  more  dressing:  turn  them  frequent- 
ly, and  make  them  a  nice  light  brown.  When  dished,  sprinkle 
upon  them  a  little  sage  powdered  very  fine. 

88.  To  Broil  Kidneys.—  Split  them  through  lengthways,  and  run 
an  iron  skewer  through  them  to  keep  them  flat;  pepper  them,  and 
broil  them  over  a  clear  fire.  They  should  be  lightly  done.  Serve 
them  in  a  very  hot  dish,  sprinkle  them  with  salt,  and  put  a  bit  of 
butter  on  each. 

89.  To  Boil  Eggs. — The  best  way  is  to  put  them  into  cold  water; 
and  when  they  have  boiled  up  once  or  twice,  if  fresh,  they  will  be 
done.  Some  persons  prefer  putting  them  into  boiling  water;  they 
should  then  boil  three  minutes  after  they  come  to  a  boil. 

90.  To  Poach  Eggs. — Have  a  saucepan  of  water  boiling,  crack 
your  eggs  into  separate  cups,  and  put  them,  one  at  the  time,  into 
the  water,  taking  a  little  into  the  cup  before  you  turn  the  egg  in; 
when  the  white  has  hardened  round  the  yolk,  which  it  will  in  a 
minute  or  two,  take  them  out  with  a  slice.  They  are  delicious  laid 
on  rashers  of  fried  bacon  or  ham. 

91.  A  very  delicate  Omelette. — Beat  six  eggs,  the  yolks  and 
whites  separately ;  melt  a  bit  of  butter  in  a  teacupful  of  warm 
milk,  to  which  add  gradually  a  teaspoonful  of  flour,  a  tablespoon- 
ful  of  salt,  and  a  little  pepper;  then  mix  in  the  yolks  of  the  eggs, 
and  lastly  the  whites,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Bake  immediately 
in  a  flat  pan.  Some  ham  cut  fine  and  added  is  a  great  improve- 
ment; some  persons  like  sweet  herbs;  others  prefer  some  finely 
shred  onion. 

92.  Eggs  and  Spinach.— This  forms  a  pretty  dish  for  supper. 
Having  boiled  and  prepared  some  spinach  (see  Vegetables),  poach 
some  eggs,  trim,  and  lay  them  on  the  spinach. 


SAUCES. 

As  sauces  spoil  by  standing  long  after  they  are  made,  they 
should  be  prepared  last,  and  served  hot. 
93.  Melted  Butter.— Put  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  into  a  clean 


27 

DOMESTIC   COOKERY. 


saucepan,  mix  it  carefully  with  a  little  water  at  a  time,  till  you 
have  about  a  cupful ;  now  cut  into  it,  in  small  pieces  four  ounces 
of  butter,  shake  it  rapidly  round  till  well  mixed,  then  place  it  on 
the  fire,  watch  it  constantly,  and  keep  shaking  and  turning  it 
round  until  it  boils;  it  is  then  ready.  Be  careful  to  turn  it  always 
one-way j  or  the  butter  will  oil.  Should  this  happen,  you  may  re- 
cover it  in  some  measure  by  putting  into  it  a  little  cold  water  and 
pouring  it  backwards  and  forwards  several  times.  For  fish,  some 
salt  should  be  added,  and  a  little  pepper. 

94.  Onion  Sauce. — Peel  the  onions  and  boil  them  in  plenty  of 
water  till  they  are  perfectly  soft;  then  strain  them  from  the 
water  and  chop  them  very  fine,  season  them  with  pepper  and  salt, 
and  stir  them  into  melted  butter.  Some  persons  add  a  little  milk, 
which  makes  the  sauce  both  rich  and  white. 

95.  Egg  Sauce.— Boil  the  eggs  till  they  are  quite  hard.  Peel 
and  chop  them  fine,  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  stir  them 
into  melted  butter. 

96.  Bread  Sauce.—  Crumble  some  stale  bread  very  fine,  set  it  on 
the  fire  in  a  saucepan,  with  as  much  sweet  milk  as  will  make  it 
thick,  put  in  a  slice  of  onion,  and  stir  it  till  the  bread  is  soaked 
and  the  sauce  is  quite  smooth.     Season  with  pepper  and  salt. 

97.  Mushroom  Sauce. — Pick  out  the  stems,  skin  them,  and  the 
mushrooms  also.  Cut  them  up  small,  and  wash  them;  put  them 
into  a  saucepan,  cover  them  with  water,  and  let  them  stew  gently 
till  they  are  soft,  when  they  will  yield  a  fine  rich  gravy ;  then  stir 
in  a  lump  of  butter  kneaded  into  some  flour  to  thicken  it,  and 
season  with  pepper  and  salt. 

98.  Mint  Sauce. — Pick  off  the  leaves  of  fresh  green  mint;  wash 
them,  then  chop  very  fine,  mix  up  some  vinegar  and  sugar,  and 
stir  in  the  mint. 

99.  Oyster  Sauce. — Simmer  the  oysters  in  their  own  liquor  till 
they  are  plump ;  strain  off  the  liquor  through  a  sieve,  wash  the 
oysters  clean,  and  beard  them;  put  them  into  a  saucepan,  and 
pour  the  liquor  over  them,  taking  care  you  do  not  pour  in  any  of 
the  sediment;  add  a  blade  of  mace,  a  quarter  of  a  lemon,  a  spoon- 
ful of  anchovy-liquor,  and  a  bit  of  horseradish ;  boil  it  up  gently, 
then  take  out  the  horseradish,  the  mace,  and  the  lemon,  the  juice 
of  which  must  be  squeezed  into  the  sauce.  Now  add  some  thick 
melted  butter,  toss  it  together,  and  boil  it  up. 

100.  Anchovy  Sauce,  for  FisJi. — Take  a  little  good  gravy,  and 
anchovy,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter  rolled  in  flour,  and  stir  all 
together  till  it  boils.  You  may  add  a  little  lemon  juice,  catsup, 
red  wine,  or  walnut-liquor,  according  to  your  taste.  Some  add 
cream. 

101.  Lobster  Sauce. — Take  a  fine  hen  lobster;  when  boiled,  take 
out  all  the  spawn  and  bruise  it  in  a  mortar  very  fine,  with  a  little 
butter;  take  all  the  meat  out  of  the  tail  and  claws,  cut  it  in  small 
square  pieces,  and  put  it  aside.  Put  into  a  saucepan  a  spoonful  of 
anchovy-liquor,  a  spoonful  of  catsup,  a  blade  of  mace,  a  bit  of 
horseradish,  half  a  lemon,  a  gill  of  gravy,  a  little  butter  rolled  in 
flour,  just  enough  to  thicken  it,  and  half  a  pound  of  butter  nicely 
melted.  Boil  it  gently  up  for  six  or  seven  minutes ;  then  take  out 
the  horseradish,  mace,  and  lemon,  squeezing  the  juice  of  the  latter 


28 

DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 


into  the  sauce ;  just  simmer  it  up;  then  put  in  your  lobster  and 
spawn,  and  allow  it  to  get  hot  through. 

102.  Shrimp  Sauce. — Take  a  half  a  pint  of  shrimps,  pick  and  lay 
them  aside;  put  the  pickings  into  a  little  water,  stew  it  a  short 
time,  then  strain  off  the  liquor,  with  which  make  your  melted 
butter ;  put  in  your  shrimps,  add  a  spoonful  of  anchovy-liquor  and  a 
little  lemon-juice,  and  let  it  simmer  altogether  for  a  few  minutes. 

103.  A  good  Common  Sauce  for  Fish. — Plain  butter  melted 
thick,  with  a  spoonful  of  walnut-pickle  or  mushroom- catsup. 

104.  Siveet  Sauce.— Plain  melted  butter,  sweetened  with  sugar 
to  your  taste. 

105.  Caudle  Sauce  /or  Plum  Pudding. — Make  melted  butter, 
and  stir  it  into  a  glass  of  sherry,  half  a  glass  of  brandy  or  rum,  a 
little  sugar,  grated  lemon-peel  and  nutmeg.  Shake  the  saucepan 
round,  but  do  not  let  it  boil  after  you  have  added  the  spirits. 

106.  Apple  Sauce. — Pare  your  apples,  cut  them  in  quarters  and 
core  them,  put  them  into  a  saucepan  with  a  very  little  water,  let 
them  boil  till  perfectly  soft,  then  strain  the  liquor  off,  and  mash 
the  apples  with  a  spoon ;  add  two  or  three  cloves,  or  a  little  bit  of 
cinnamon,  a  bit  of  butter,  a  little  grated  lemon-pell,  and  sugar  to 
your  taste;  mix  all  together,  and  set  the  saucepan  on  the  hob  for 
a  few  minutes. 

107.  Celery  Sauce  for  Fowls  and  Game. — Take  a  large  bunch  of 
celery,  wash  and  pare  it  clean,  cut  it  in  small  thin  pieces,  and  boil 
it  gently  in  a  little  water  till  tender ;  then  add  some  beaten  mace, 
nutmeg,  pepper,  and  salt,  thicken  with  a  piece  of  butter  rolled 
in  flour,  then  boil  it  up,  and  pour  it  into  a  dish. 

You  may  make  it  with  cream,  thus:  boil  celery  as  before  direct- 
ed, and  add  m?ce,  nutmeg,  a  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  a  walnut, 
rolled  in  flour,  and  half  a  pint  of  cream ;  boil  all  together. 

108.  Parsley  and  Butter. — Pick  and  wash  a  handful  of  parsley, 
tie  it  up,  and  throw  it  into  boiling  water  for  a  minute  or  two;  then 
cut  away  the  stalks  and  chop  the  parsley  very  small ;  make  melted 
butter,  and  stir  in  the  parsley. 

109.  Wine  Sauce  for  Mutton  or  Venison. — Take  a  sufficient 
quantity  of  the  liquor  in  which  the  meat  was  boiled,  put  in  pep- 
per, salt,  currant- jelly,  and  wine  to  your  taste;  boil  all  up,  and 
thicken  it  with  scorched  flour  mixed  with  a  little  water. 

110.  Mushroom  Sauce  for  Boiled  Fowls. — Stir  half  a  pint  of 
cream  and  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter  together  one  way, 
till  it  becomes  thick ;  then  add  a  spoonful  of  mushroom  pickle, 
pickled  mushrooms,  or  fresh.     Garnish  with  lemon. 

111.  Caper  Sauce. — Chop  capers,  and  stir  them  into  melted  but- 
ter, adding  some  of  the  vinegar. 


TO  DRESS  POULTRY  AND  GAME. 

113.  To  Roast  Fowls. — Pick  and  draw  them;  be  careful  not  to 
break  the  gall-bag  in  drawing,  as,  if  the  gall  be  spilled,  it  will 
render  any  part  which  it  touches  bitter ;  a  fowl  should  be  so  clean- 
ly drawn  as  to  require  no  washing,  but  merely  to  be  wiped  out 
with  a  clean  dry  cloth.     Singe  them;  then  press  down  the  breast- 


29 

DOMESTIC  COOKER  Y 


boue.  Break  the  legs  by  the  middle  of  the  first  joint,  draw  out 
the  sinews,  and  cut  off  the  parts  at  the  break.  Put  the  gizzard  in 
one  pinion  and  the  liver  in  the  other,  and  turn  the  points  on  the 
back :  put  a  skewer  in  the  first  joint  of  the  pinion  and  bring  the 
middle  of  the  leg  close  to  it;  put  the  skewer  through  the  middle 
of  the  leg^  and  through  the  body,  and  the  same  on  the  other  side; 
put  nnother  skewer  through  the  small  of  the  leg  and  the  sides- 
man, and  another  through  the  other  side.  Cut  the  head  off  close 
to  the  body,  leaving  sufficient  skin  to  tie  on  the  back.  Suspend 
it  neck  downwardsr  Baste  with  butter  for  some  time  after  put- 
ting to  the  fire.  They  will  require  from  half  an  hour  to  an  hour 
according  to  the  size.  When  fowls  are  large  they  are  very  good 
stuffed  like  turkey. 

Serve  roast  fowls  with  melted  butter  or  gravy-sauce.  Before 
you  send  them  to  the  table,  remove  all  skewers  and  strings  which 
may  have  been  used  in  trussing.  Fowls  and  all  other  feathered 
animals  are  served  with  the  breast  upwards. 

113.  To  Boast  a  Turkey. — Having  picked,  drawn,  and  singed 
the  turkey,  truss  it  according  to  previous  directions  for  trussing 
fowls.  Stuff  the  breast  with  rich  veal  stuffing,  adding  a  little 
sausage-meat;  sew  up  the  neck.  Cover  the  breast  with  buttered 
paper,  to  preserve  it  from  scorching,  and  roast  it  to  a  fine  brown. 
Baste  it  well  with  butter,  and  a  little  while  before  it  is  done  re- 
move the  paper  and  allow  the  breast  to  brown.  A  good-sized 
turkey  will  require  roasting  from  an  hour  and  a  half  to  two 
hours.  You  must  have  plenty  of  good  gravy  in  the  dish,  and 
garnish  with  lemon.     Serve  with  bread-sauce. 

114.  To  Roast  a  Goose. — Having  picked,  drawn,  and  singed  the 
goose,  cut  off  the  bead  and  neck,  leaving  sufficient  skin  to  tie  oyer 
the  neck-bone.  Take  off  the  legs  and  wings  at  the  first  joint. 
Stuff  with  chopped  sage  and  onion,  and  a  few  bread-crumbs  sea- 
soned with  pepper  and  salt.  Cut  off  the  end  of  the  veni,  and 
make  a  slit  sufficiently  large  to  admit  the  rump  through,  in  order 
to  keep  the  stuffing  in.  Tie  the  skin  of  the  neck  securely,  to  pre- 
vent the  gravy  from  running  out,  and  tie  a  string  round  the 
goose  over  the  wings,  and  another  over  tbe  legs.  Paper  the 
breast  for  a  short  time.  Rub  a  few  pieces  of  butter  in  the  shoul- 
ders and  back,  to  baste  with :  but,  as  it  is  naturally  greasy,  it  will 
soon  yield  sufficient  fat  for  that  purpose.  It  will  require  full  two 
hours'  roasting.  It  should  be  well  done.  Serve  it  with  plenty  of 
gravy  and  apple-sauce.  The  liver,  gizzard,  head,  neck,  feet  and 
pinions  of  the  goose  form  what  is  termed  the  giblets,  and  make  an 
excellent  pie,  or  a  savory  stew,  thus: 

115.  Stewed  Giblets.— Having  scalded  and  picked  them,  cut  them 
in  pieces,  wash  them  clean,  and  put  them  into  a  saucepan  with  a 
piece  of  scrag  of  veal,  cover  them  with  water,  and  let  them  boil 
up,  then  take  off  the  scum  quite  clean,  and  add  three  onions,  two 
turnips,  one  carrot,  and  a  little  thyme  and  parsley.  Stew  them 
till  they  are  tender,  and  strain  them  through  a  sieve ;  wash  the 
giblets  clean  from  the  herbs,  etc.  Now  take  a  piece  of  butter 
the  size  of  a  walnut,  put  it  into  a  saucepan  with  a  large  spoonful 
of  flour,  and  stir  it  about  till  it  is  well  mixed  and  smooth ;  then 
put  in  the  broth  and  giblets,  stew  them  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour. 


30 

DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 


season  with  salt  and  a  little  pepper,  and  just  before  you  serv& 
them  up,  chop  a  handful  of  green  parsley,  and  put  it  in.  Give  it 
a  boil  up,  and  serve  them  in  a  tureen. 

116.  To  Roast  Ducks.—  Pick,  draw,  and  singe  them.  Cut  off 
the  head ;  dip  the  feet  in  boiling  water  to  remove  the  yellow  skin ; 
truss  them  plump,  turning  the  feet  flat  upon  the  back.  Stuff  the 
same  as  goose,  and  serve  with  gravy  and  apple-sauce.  An  hour 
will  roast  a  duck.     Green  peas  usually  accompany  roast  duck. 

117.  To  Roast  Pigeons. — Pick,  draw,  and  truss  them,  keeping 
on  the  feet.  Chop  the  liver  with  some  parsley,  add  crumbs  of 
bread,  pepper,  salt,  and  a  little  butter;  put  this  stuffing  inside. 
Slit  one  of  the  legs,  and  slip  the  other  through  it;  skewer  and 
roast  them  for  half  an  hour;  baste  them  well  with  butter.  Serve 
with  brown  gravy  in  a  boat,  and  bread-sauce. 

118.  To  Roast  Pheasants. — Pick,  singe,  and  draw  them,  the  same 
as  fowls.  Truss  them  by  twisting  the  head  round  one  of  the  wings, 
and  turning  both  wings  on  the  back.  Fix  the  legs  down  straight, 
the  same  as  a  roast  fowl;  the  feet  are  to  be  left  on.  Paper  them 
all  over  the  breast,  and  roast  them  to  a  fine  brown.  Just  before 
they  are  done,  remove  the  paper  and  brown  the  breast;  flour  and 
baste  them  with  a  little  butter,  and  let  them  have  a  fine  white 
froth.  They  will  be  done  in  three-quarters  of  an  hour.  Take 
them  up  and  pour  good  gravy  into  the  dish.  Serve  with  bread- 
sauce. 

119.  To  Roast  Partridges.  — Pick,  draw,  singe,  and  clean  them 
the  same  as  fowls.  Make  a  slit  in  the  neck  and  draw  out  the 
craw;  twist  the  neck  round  the  wing,  and  bring  the  head  round 
to  the  side  of  the  breast.  The  legs  and  wings  are  trussed  the 
same  as  fowls,  only  the  feet  are  left  on  and  crossed  over  one  an- 
other. Put  them  down  to  a  clear  fire,  and  baste  well  with  butter. 
When  about  half  done,  dust  a  little  flour  over  them ;  let  them  be 
nicely  browned.  They  will  require  to  roast  from  twenty  minutes 
to  half  an  hour  each.  Serve  on  toasted  bread  dipped  in  the  gravy, 
with  gravy  and  bread-sauce. 

120.  Grouse  and  Blackcock  should  be  dressed  and  served  in  the 
same  manner,  only  the  head  should  be  trussed  under  the  wing. 

121.  To  Roast  Snipes  or  Woodcocks. — These  are  not  drawn. 
Spit  them  on  a  small  bird-spit,  flour  and  baste  them  with  a 
piece  of  butter,  lay  a  slice  of  bread  toasted  brown  in  the  dish,  and 
set  it  under  the  snipes  for  the  trail  to  drop  on.  When  they  are 
done  enough  take  them  up  and  lay  them  on  a  toast.  Have  ready, 
for  two  snipes,  a  quarter  of  a  pint  of  good  gravy  and  butter;  pour 
it  into  a  dish,  and  set  it  over  a  chafing-dish  for  a  few  minutes. 
Garnish  with  lemon. 

122.  To  Roast  a  Hare.— Cut  off  the  feet  and  draw  off  the  skin, 
commencing  at  the  hind  legs,  and  proceeding  along  the  body  to 
the  head,  taking  care  not  to  tear  the  ears  in  skinning  them.  Soak 
it  well  and  wash  it  in  several  waters;  then  wipe  it  quite  dry; 
make  a  stuffing  with  crumbs  of  bread,  parsley,  and  beef  suet 
chopped  fine,  a  little  grated  lemon-peel  and  nutmeg,  a  piece  of  the 
liver  boiled  and  chopped  fine,  and  pepper  and  salt;  moisten  the 
whole  with  an  egg,  a  little  milk,  and  a  spoonful  of  catsup.  Put 
this  pudding  into  the  belly,  and  sew  up  the  skin.     Commence 


81 

DOMESTIC    COOKERY. 


trussing  by  placing  the  hind  and  fore  legs  flat  against  the  sides. 
The  under-sinews  must  be  cut  to  make  the  hind  legs  lie  flat.  The 
head  must  be  fixed  between  the  shoulders  on  the  back  by  running- 
a  skewer  through  it  into  the  body.  Suspend  it  head  downwards. 
Baste  it  with  butter,  flouring  it  lightly.  It  will  require  from  an 
hour  and  a  half  to  two  hours.  The  hare  is  served  lying  on  its 
belly,  with  rich  beef  gravy  and  a  dish  of  currant -jelly. 

133.  To  Roast  a  Rabbit—  Having  drawn  and  skinned  it,  wash 
it  in  warrn  water,  dry  it,  truss  it,  and  stuff  it  as  follows:  Beef 
suet  chopped  fine;  a  few  bread-crumbs;  a  little  thyme,  marjoram, 
and  savory;  a  little  grated  lemon-peel,  pepper,  and  salt,  mixed 
together  with  an  egg;  put  it  into  the  belly  of  the  rabbit  and  sew  it 
up.  Suspend  it  before  a  good  fire,  and  do  not  put  it  too  close  at 
first;  baste  it  well  with  butter  or  veal  dripping,  and  dredge  it  two 
or  three  times  with  flour.  When  it  is  sufficiently  roasted  place 
the  rabbit  in  a  hot  dish;  put  a  little  water  into  a  saucepan,  a  lump 
of  butter  rolled  in  flour,  and  pour  the  gravy  in  from  the  dripping- 
pan;  give  it  aboil  up,  and  pour  it  over  the  rabbit. 

124.  A  Batter  for  Roast  Hare. — Make  a  batter  as  for  pancakes, 
but  not  quite  so  thick,  with  two  spoonfuls  of  flour  and  two  of 
salad-oil ;  add  three  yolks  and  one  white  of  egg ;  mix  all  together 
with  new  milk  and  a  little  salt ;  baste  the  hare  with  it  when  half 
roasted. 

135.  To  Jug  a  Hare. — Skin,  draw,  and  wash  the  hare;  cut  it 
into  pieces  and  put  them  into  a  jar  with  an  onion,  a  bunch  of 
sweet  herbs,  and  a  little  water.  Cover  the  top  of  the  jar  close,  so 
that  very  little  of  the  steam  can  escape ;  place  the  jar  in  a  saucepan 
of  water  not  sufficiently  high  to  cover  the  top;  keep  the  water 
constantly  boiling  between  three  and  four  hours.  When  done, 
skim  off  the  fat,  thicken  the  sauce  with  flour  and  butter;  season 
with  pepper  and  salt,  and  serve  it  all  together  in  a  hash-dish. 

136.  To  Boil  a  Turkey.— A  boiled  turkey  is  a  most  delicate  and 
excellent  dish,  and  requires  to  be  dressed  with  extreme  care.  Clean 
the  turkey  from  feathers  and  stumps,  and  singe  off  the  hairs, 
taking  care  not  to  blacken  the  skin.  Draw  and  wipe  it  inside 
with  a  clean  dry  cloth ;  cut  off  the  legs  at  the  first  joint :  draw  out 
the  sinews;  then  pull  down  the  skin  and  push  the  legs  inside;  cut 
the  head  off  close  to  the  body,  leaving  the  skin  long,  and  draw  out 
the  craw.  Make  a  good  veal  stuffing  and  put  it  into  the  breast^ 
leaving  sufficient  room  for  the  stuffing  to  swell ;  then  draw  the 
skin  of  the  breast  over  the  opening  and  sew  it  neatly  across  the 
back,  so  that  when  the  turkey  is  brought  to  table  no  sewing  will 
appear.  Place  the  gizzard  in  one  wing  and  the  liver  in  the  other, 
turn  the  wings  on  the  back  and  fix  them  to  the  sides  with  a 
skewer ;  wrap  it  in  a  cloth  dredged  with  flour,  and  put  it  into  a 
pot  of  warm  water,  in  sufficient  quantity  to  keep  the  turkey  al- 
ways covered.  Skim  it  while  boiling.  A  small,  young  turkey 
will  not  take  more  than  an  hour  and  a  half  to  boil  it;  a  large  one 
about  two  hours  and  a  half.  When  done  place  it  in  a  hot  dish,  and 
pour  a  little  sauce  over  the  breast.  Send  up  oyster-sauce,  or  pars- 
ley and  butter,  in  a  tureen.  Some  cooks  make  the  stuffing  of 
chopped  bread  and  butter,  oysters,  cream,  and  the  yolks  of  eggs. 

127.  2b  Boil  a  Fowl. — A  fowl  is  prepared  for  boiling  just  the 


32 

DOMESTIC    COOKERY 


same  as  a  turkey,  onl y  omit  the  stuffing.  It  may  be  boiled  with- 
out a  cloth;  the  liquor  will  then  be  good.  A  small  fowl  will  re- 
quire from  half  an  hour  to  three-quarters,  a  large  one  from  an 
hour  to  an  hour  and  a  half.     Sauce,  parsley  and  butter. 

128.  To  Boil  Rabbits. — Wash  them  well  in  warm  water;  truss 
them  like  roast  hare,  and  boil  them  for  an  hour ;  pour  over  them 
a  sauce  made  of  boiled  onions  chopped  in  melted  butter,  seasoned 
with  pepper  and  salt,  adding  a  little  milk  or  cream. 

129.  To  Boil  Pigeons. — Boil  them  by  themselves  for  a  quarter  of 
an  hour;  then  boil  a  handsome  square  piece  of  bacon,  and  lay  it 
in  the  middle  of  the  dish ;  stew  spinach  to  lay  round,  and  put  the 
pigeons  on  the  spinach.  Garnish  with  slices  of  bacon,  and  send 
up  melted  butter  in  a  boat. 


TO   DRESS    FISH. 

General  Remarks. — Fish  must  be  put  into  cold  or  boiling 
water  according  to  its  firmness  of  flesh:  for  instance,  turbot  sal-, 
mon,  mackerel,  &c,  should  be  put  into  cold  water;  while  plaice, 
whitings,  haddocks,  and  such  soft-fleshed  as  well  as  crimped  fish, 
should  be  put  into  boiling  water.  The  reason  is  obvious :  by  put- 
ting flaccid  and  watery  fish  into  the  water  cold,  it  is  rendered 
still  more  soft  and  watery-  but  the  boiling  water  sets  it  and 
renders  it  firmer;  on  the  other  hand,  the  cold  water  penetrates 
and  softens  the  fish  that  is  of  a  firmer  texture,  and  makes  it 
eat  more  tender  and  delicate.  Keep  the  water  skimmed  while 
the  fish  is  boiling. 

Fish  is  cooked  enough  when  it  leaves  the  bone  easily.  Be 
sure  to  wash  and  clean  your  fish  well,  never  trusting  to  the 
fishmonger. 

In  frying  fish,  having  washed  it,  dry  it  thoroughly  in  a  clean 
cloth,  then  flour  it  well,  or  whisk  it  over  with  egg,  and  dip*  it 
into  bread-crumbs  before  frying  it.  Be  sure  your  pan  is  very 
clean,  and  that  your  fat  (of  which  there  should  be  enough  to 
cover  the  fish)  boils  before  you  put  the  fish  in.  Fry  fish  quickly 
of  a  fine  light  brown.  Some  like  fish  fried  in  batter — as  good  a 
batter  as  any  is  a  little  ale  and  flour  beaten  up  just  as  you  are 
ready  for  it — then  dip  the  fish  in  before  frying  it.  Put  plenty  of 
salt  in  the  water  in  which  you  boil  fish,  and  a  stick  of  horseradish 
excepting  mackerel,  with  which  you  boil  salt,  mint,  parsley,  and 
fennel. 

130.  To  Boil  Turbot. — Lay  it  in  plenty  of  salt  and  water  for  an 
hour.  In  the  meantime  set  on  a  nsh-kettle  with  spring  water  and 
salt,  and  a  piece  of  horseradish.  Lay  the  turbot  on  a  fish-plate, 
with  the  belly  upwards,  and  put  it  in  the  kettle;  let  it  be 
well  boiled  through,  but  not  overdone;  it  will  require  from 
half  an  hour  to  three-quarters  after  it  boils;  according  to  the 
thickness.  It  should  boil  slowly.  When  it  is  done  enough,  take 
off  the  fish-kettle ;  set  it  before  the  fire,  then  carefully  lift  up  the 
fish-plate,  and  set  it  across  the  kettle  to  drain;  during  which,  melt 
a  great  deal  of  fresh  butter,  and  bruise  in  the  spawn  of  one  or  two 
lobsters,  and  the  meat  cut  small,  with  a  spoonful  of  anchovy- 


33 

DOMESTIC    COOKERY. 


liquor,  then  give  it  a  boil  and  pour  it  into  boats.  Now  lay  the 
turbot  in  the  dish,  and  garnish  with  scraped  horseradish  and 
lemon. 

181.  To  Boil  Salmon. — Clean  out  and  scale  the  fish,  and  rinse  it 
in  water.  Then  put  on  a  good  room}'  fish-kettle  with  plenty  of 
water  and  a  good  handful  of  salt;  put  in  your  fish,  let  it 
boil  very  gently,  keeping  it  skimmed.  The  time  it  will  take  de- 
pends greatly  ou  the  thickness  of  the  fish.  It  is  usual  to  reckon 
ten  minutes  to  the  pound.  To  ascertain  if  it  be  boiled  enough, 
raise  one  end  from  the  water,  and  if  a  knife  pass  easily  betwixt 
the  fish  and  the  bone,  it  is  sufficiently  done.  When  it  is  ready, 
lift  the  drainer  out  of  the  water  and  set  it  across  the  kettle, 
that  the  water  may  drip  from  the  fish.  Serve  it  on  a  dish  with  a 
fish-plate ;  lay  a  napkin  under  the  fish.  Garnish  with  green  par- 
sley and  lobster  or  shrimp  sauce. 

133.  To  Boil  Cod. — wash  and  clean  it  well,  boil  it  the  same  as 
directed  for  turbot.  Serve  it  on  a  napkin.  Garnish  with  parsley 
and  horseradish  scraped.     Oyster-sauce. 

183.  To  Dress  a  Cod's  Head  and  Shoulders. — Clean  a  cod's  head 
and  shoulders  in  one  piece,  and  lay  it  in  salt  all  night.  Before  you 
dress  it,  bind  it  firmly  together  with  tape.  Put  it  into  a  fish- 
kettle  with  plenty  of  cold  water,  a  handful  of  salt,  and  a  stick  of 
horseradish.  Let  it  boil  slowly  for  about  three-quarters  of  an  hour, 
then  let  the  water  drain  from  it  across  the  top  of  the  kettle. 
Place  it  on  a  hot  dish,  back  upwards,  and  draw  away  the  tapes 
very  carefully.  Brush  it  over  with  beaten  egg  and  stew  over  it 
bread-crumbs,  pepper  and  salt ;  then  stick  pieces  of  butter  thickly 
over  the  top.  Set  it  before  the  fire,  which  should  be  clear  and 
brisk,  to  brown.  Make  a  rich  oyster-sauce  with  gravy  well  sea- 
soned with  cayenne  pepper,  salt,  and  catsup,  and  pour  it  into  the 
dish,  around  but  not  over  the  fish. 

134.  To  Stetv  Cod. — Cut  it  in  slices  an  inch  thick,  lay  them  in  a 
large  stewpan,  season  with  nutmeg  beaten,  pepper,  and  salt,  a  bun- 
dle of  sweet  herbs,  an  onion,  half  a  pint  of  wine,  and  a  quarter  of  a 
pint  of  water ;  cover  close,  and  let  it  simmer  softly  for  five  or  six 
minutes;  then  squeeze  in  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  put  in  a  few  oysters, 
and  the  liquor  strained,  with  a  blade  or  two  of  mace ;  cover  it  close 
and  let  it  stew  softly,  shaking  the  pan  often.  When  it  is  done 
enough  take  out  the  sweet  herbs  and  onion,  and  dish  it  up;  pour  the 
sauce  over  it,  and  garnish  with  lemon. 

135.  To  Boil  Shell-Fish. — Lobsters  and  craw-fish  must  be  put 
alive  in  boiling  water.  When  the  joints  come  off  easily  they  are 
done  enough. 

Crabs  must  be  first  killed,  and  then  put  into  lwiling  water. 

136.  To  Fry  Haddocks.— These  are  most  excellent  fish  when 
properly  dressed.  Take  good- sized  haddocks;  wash  and  clean 
them  well:  let  them  lie  all  night  in  salt.  When  you  are  going  to 
dress  them,  wash  and  wipe  them  dry ;  cut  off  the  head,  tail,  and 
fins;  skin  them  carefully,  so  as  not  to  tear  the  flesh,  which  is  ex- 
tremely tender ;  cut  the  flesh  from  the  bone  and  divide  each  side 
in  two  pieces;  dredge  them  with  flour,  dip  them  in  egg  and 
bread-crumbs,  and  fry  them  in  hot  lard  or  dripping  sufficient  to 
cover  them,    Do  not  suffer  the  fat  to  scorch  the  fish.    Brown  both. 


3i 

DOMESTIC    COOKERY. 


sides;  and  when  done,  place  them  for  a  few  minutes  on  a  drainer, 
before  the  fire.  Garnish  with  parsley.  Send  up  oyster-sauce,  or 
plain  melted  butter,  in  a  boat. 

137.  To  Broil  Haddocks. — Scale,  gut,  and  wash  them  clean.  Do 
not  rip  open  the  bellies,  but  take  out  the  guts  with  the  gills;  dry 
them  in  a  clean  cloth;  and  if  there  be  any  roe  or  liver,  take  it  out, 
wash  and  dry  it,  and  put  it  in  again;  flour  them  well,  and  have  a 
clear,  brisk  fire.  Clean  your  gridiron  and  let  it  get  hot ;  then  lay 
on  your  fish;  turn  them  two  or  three  times  at  first  to  keep  them 
from  sticking;  then  let  one  side  be  done  enough,  and  turn  it  on 
the  other.  When  done,  lay  them  in  a  dish,  and  serve  them  with 
plain  melted  butter  or  anchovy-sauce.  They  are  nice  eating  if 
salted  a  day  or  two  before  you  dress  them,  and  hung  up  to  dry, 
or  plain-boiled  with  egg-sauce. 

138.  To  Cook  Dried  Haddock. — Take  a  frying  pan  or  sauce-pan, 
and  fill  it  with  sufficient  water  to  cover  the  haddock,  and  directly 
the  water  boils,  place  the  fish  in  it  for  two  or  three  minutes,  ac- 
cording to  its  size.  The  haddock  should  then  be  skinned,  buttered, 
and  placed  before  the  fire  for  a  few  minutes,  when  it  is  ready  to 
serve. 

139.  Baked  Fish. — Cod,  gurnet,  and  shad  are  good  for  baking. 
Stuff  them  with  a  seasoning  made  of  bread-crumbs,  butter,  salt, 
pepper,  and  (if  agreeable)  parsley  and  spices.  Put  the  fish  in  a 
baking-dish,  with  a  cupful  of  water  and  a  lump  of  butter.  Bake 
from  three  quarters  of  an  hour  to  an  hour. 

140.  To  Broil  Mackerel. — Cut  off  the  heads,  but  do  not  rip  them 
open;  gut,  and  wash  them  clean,  and  dry  them;  pull  out  the  roe 
at  the  neck  end,  boil  it,  then  bruise  it  with  a  spoon;  beat  up  the 
yolk  of  an  egg  with  a  little  nutmeg,  a  little  dropped  lemon-peel,  a 
little  thyme,  some  boiled  parsley  chopped  fine,  a  little  pepper  and 
salt,  and  a  few  bread-crumbs;  mix  these  together  with  the  mashed 
roe,  and  fill  the  mackerel;  flour  it,  and  broil  it  nicely.  Send  it  rp 
with  a  little  catsup  or  walnut-pickle,  in  plain  melted  butter. 
Mackerel,  if  boiled,  should  be  put  into  cold  water  with  plenty  of 
salt.     When  cold  they  are  nice  soused  in  vinegar. 

141.  To  Dress  Flat-fish. — In  dressing  all  sorts  of  flat-fish  take 
great  care,  if  you  boil  them,  to  have  them  done  enough,  but  do 
not  let  them  break.  Put  plenty  of  salt  in  the  water,  also  horse- 
radish; let  the  fish  be  well  drained,  and  cut  off  the  fins  when 
cleaning  them.  When  to  be  fried,  let  them  be  well  dried  in  a 
cloth;  egg  and  bread-crumb  them,  and  fry  them  of  a  light  brown; 
use  plenty  of  fat;  and,  when  done,  drain  the  fish  on  a  clean  coarse 
cloth.  If  to  be  fried  without  egg  and  bread-crumbs,  proceed  as 
for  sausages. 

142.  To  Broil  Herrings.— Scale  and  gut  them;  cut  off  the  heads; 
wash  them  clean,  and  dry  them  in  a  cloth;  flour  and  broil  them; 
mash  the  heads;  boil  them  in  small  beer  or  ale,  with  a  little  whole 
pepper  and  an  onion ;  let  it  boil  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour ;  strain 
it ;  then  thicken  it  with  butter  and  flour  and  a  good  deal  of  mus- 
tard. Lay  the  herrings  on  a  dish  and  pour  the  sauce  into  a 
boat. 

143.  To  Fry  Herrings. — Gut  and  wash  them  clean,  and  dry 
them  in  a  cloth;  fry  tbem  brown;  have  ready  some  onions  sliced 


35 

DOMESTIC    COOKERY. 


thin;  fry  them  of  a  light  brown,  with  the  herrings;  lay  the  her- 
rings in  a  dish,  and  the  onions  round,  with  butter  and  mustard  in 
a  cup.    Dress  them  on  a  quick  fire. 

144.  To  Stew  Eels.— Clean  them  thoroughly,  which  will  take 
plenty  of  water,  time,  and  trouble ;  cut  them  in  pieces  of  about 
three  inches  in  length :  put  them  into  a  saucepan  with  barely  suf- 
ficient water  to  cover  them,  a  blade  or  two  of  mace,  and  a  crust 
of  bread ;  let  them  stew  gently  till  the  flesh  will  strip  easily  from 
the  bone;  then  put  in  a  lump  of  butter  rolled  in  flour,  some  pars- 
ley chopped  fine,  and  a  little  pepper  and  salt ;  let  it  boil  up  once 
or  twice,  and  serve  them  hot  in  a  tureen  with  toasted  snippets. 

145.  To  Broil  Eels. — Take  a  large  eel ;  skin  and  make  it  clean: 
then  open  the  belly,  and  cut  it  into  four  pieces.  Then  take  the 
tail-end,  strip  off  the  flesh,  and  beat  it  in  a  mortar;  season  with  a 
little  beaten  mace,  grated  nutmeg,  pepper  and  salt,  chopped  pars- 
ley, thyme,  lemon  peel,  and  bread-crumbs;  roll  it  in  a  piece  of 
butter;  then  mix  it  again  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg ;  roll  it  up,  and 
fill  the  pieces  of  belly  with  it ;  now  cut  the  skin  of  the  eel,  wrap  it 
round  the  pieces,  and  sew  them  up;  broil  them  well;  have  butter 
and  an  anchovy  for  sauce,  with  the  juice  of  a  lemon. 

146.  To  Boil  Soles.— Take  three  quarts  of '  spring- water  and  a 
handful  of  salt.  When  it  boils  put  in  the  soles,  and  let  them 
boil  gently  for  ten  minutes.  Dish  them  up  in  a  clean  napkin, 
with  anchovy  or  shrimp  sauce. 

147.  To  Fry  Soles. — Scrape,  but  do  not  skin  them;  wash  them 
and  wipe  them  dry;  dip  them  in  beaten  egg,  and  then  strew  them 
over  with  bread-crumbs ;  have  a  pan  of  fat,  and  be  sure  it  boils 
before  you  put  in  the  soles.  Fry  them  of  a  light  brown  and  turn 
them  but  once.  Lay  them  on  a  napkin  for  the  fat  to  drain  off, 
and  serve  them  on  a  fish-plate,  with  plain  melted  butter  in  a 
boat. 

148.  To  Stew  3Iiissels. — Wash  them  very  clean  from  the  sand,  in 
two  or  three  waters,  put  them  into  a  saucepan,  cover  them  close, 
and  let  them  stew  till  all  the  shells  open;  then  take  them  out,  pick 
them  out  of  the  shells,  and  pick  out  the  bit  of  weed  which  is  usually 
sticking  under  the  tongue.  When  }rou  have  picked  them  all  clean 
put  them  into  a  clean  saucepan,  and  to  a  quart  of  mussels  strain 
half  a  pint  of  the  liquor  through  a  sieve;  then  put  in  a  blade  or 
two  of  mace,  and  a  piece  of  butter,  the  size  of  a  walnut,  rolled  in 
flour.  Let  them  stew;  then  toast  some  bread,  cut  it  in  three- 
cornered  pieces/and  lay  it  round  the  dish.  Pour  in  the  mussels, 
and  send  them  to  table  hot. 

149.  To  Scollop  Ousters. — Rub  some  bread-crumbs  in  a  clean 
cloth;  fill  your  scollop-shells  with  oysters  and  the  bread-crumbs 
alternately.  Set  them  before  a  good  fire  to  brown,  add  a  little 
popper  and  salt,  baste  them  well  with  butter,  and  keep  turning 
them,  that  they  may  be  brown  all  over  alike. 

150.  To  Dress  Salt  Fish. — Soak  it  for  some  hours,  to  take  out 
the  salt,  changing  the  water  frequently.  Put  it  into  cold  water. 
It  will  take  from  ten  to  twenty  minutes  after  it  boils,  according 
to  the  thickness  of  the  fish.  Serve  it  with  boiled  parsnips,  and 
egg-sauce  in  a  boat. 


6 

DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 


PIES  AND  PUDDINGS. 

General  Rules.— In  boiling  puddings  mind  that  the  cloth  be 
perfectly  clean.  Dip  it  in  hot  water,  and  dredge  it  well  with 
flour.  If  a  bread  pudding,  tie  it  loose;  if  a  batter-pudding,  tie  it 
nearly  close ;  apple  and  gooseberry  puddings,  &c,  should  be  tied 
quite  close.  When  you  make  a  batter  pudding  first  mix  the  flour 
well  with  milk,  and  stir  in  the  other  ingredients  by  degrees;  you 
will  then  have  it  smooth,  without  lumps.  The  best  way,  how- 
ever, for  a  plain  batter-pudding,  is  to  strain  it  through  a  coarse 
hair-sieve,  that  it  may  have  neither  lumps  nor  the  treadings  of 
the  eggs ;  and  for  all  other  puddings  strain  the  eggs  when  they  aro 
beaten  up.  Be  sure  the  water  boils  when  you  put  your  pudding 
in,  and  that  it  keeps  boiling  all  the  time,  and  that  you  keep  it 
always  covered  with  water ;  you  should  also  move  it  about  two  or 
three  times  at  first,  or  it  may  stick  to  the  pot;  dip  the  pudding  into 
cold  water  immediately  you  take  it  out,  which  prevents  it  stick- 
ing. If  you  boil  your  pudding  in  a  dish  or  basin,  butter  the  inside 
before  putting  the  pudding  in ;  the  same  should  be  done  to  the  dish 
for  a  baked  pudding  or  pie. 

The  quality  of  pie  crust  depends  much  on  the  baking.  If  the 
oven  be  too  hot,  the  paste,  besides  being  burned,  will  fall ;  if  too 
slack,  it  will  be  soddened,  and  consequently  heavy. 

Paste  should  be  made  on  a  cold,  smooth  substance,  such  as 
marble  or  slate,  with  a  light,  cool  hand.  It  should  be  made  quick- 
ly ;  much  handling  makes  it  heavy.  Great  nicety  is  required  in 
wetting  the  paste;  too  little  moisture  rendering  it  dry  and 
crumbly,  while  too  much  makes  it  tough  and  heavy;  and  in  either 
case  the  paste  cannot  be  easily  worked.  Practice  alone  can  pro- 
duce perfection  in  this  art. 

Before  commencing  to  make  paste  for  pies  or  puddings  it  is 
necessary  to  place  near  at  hand  everything  likely  to  be  wanted, 
to  inspect  all  the  utensils,  to  prepare  all  the  ingredients,  and, 
though  last,  not  least,  to  wash  the  hands  and  nails  perfectly  clean: 
for  the  hands  are  the  best  tools  to  make  paste  with. 

Always  use  good  sweet  butter,  dripping,  or  lard  for  pie  or  pud- 
ding crust.  Some  persons  entertain  the  mistaken  notion  that 
butter  which  cannot  be  eaten  on  bread  will  do  very  well  for  paste; 
on  the  contrary,  the  baking  or  boiling  of  rancid  fat  increases  the 
bad  flavor.  It  is  a  good  plan  to  wash  the  butter  in  clean  spring- 
water  before  using  it.  Make  two  or  three  holes  with  a  fork  in  the 
cover  of  your  pies,  that  the  steam  may  escape. 

151.  Puff-paste.—  Rub  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter- into  half 
a  quartern  of  flour  very  fine ;  make  it  up  into  a  light  paste,  using 
as  little  cold  water  as  you  can  work  it  up  with;  then  roll  it  out 
about  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  put  a  layer  of  butter  all  over, 
sprinkle  on  a  little  flour,  double  it  up  and  roll  it  out  again;  double 
and  roll  it  out  thus  four  or  five  times,  using  another  half-pound  of 
butter ;  then  it  will  be  fit  for  any  pies  or  tarts  that  require  puff- 
paste. 

152.  Crust  for  Raised  Pies. — Boil  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  lard 
in  half  a  pint  of  water.  This  will  bind  two  pounds  of  flour,  on 
which  it  must  be  poured  boiling.  When  well  mixed,  knead  it  on 
the  paste-board  with  your  hands  till  it  becomes  stiff  like  dough. 


37 


DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 


Cut  off  a  piece  first  to  form  the  cover,  and  model  the  rest  like  a 
dish  or  basin  to  hold  the  meat.  When  you  put  on  the  cover,  wet 
the  edges  and  press  them  tightly  together. 

153.  Rhubarb,  Gooseberry,  Plum,  and  Currant  Pie. — Make  a 
good  crust ;  lay  a  little  round  the  sides  of  the  dish ;  throw  some 
sugar  on  the  bottom,  and  put  in  a  little  cup  to  suck  in  the  juice; 
lay  in  the  fruit,  and  put  some  more  sugar  at  top;  then  put  in  a 
very  little  water ;  wet  the  top  of  the  crust  that  goes  round  inside 
the  dish ;  put  on  the  cover,  and  pinch  the  edges  together.  Cut  the 
rhubarb  into  lengths  of  two  inches,  but  do  not  skin  it;  only  trim 
it  at  top  and  bottom. 

154.  Apple  Pic. — Make  a  puff- paste  crust;  lay  some  round  the 
sides  of  the  dish ;  pare  and  quarter  the  apples,  and  take  out  the 
cores;  lay  a  row  of  apples  thick  at  the  bottom  of  the  dish,  with 
half  the  sugar  you  intend  for  the  pie,  a  little  minced  lemon- peel,  a 
little  of  the  juice,  and  two  or  three  cloves,  or  a  little  cinnamon ; 
then  the  rest  of  the  apples  and  sugar;  squeeze  in  a  little  more 
lemon-juice,  and  have  ready  the  peels  and  cores  of  the  apples 
boiled  with  some  sugar  in  very  little  water  and  strained;  pour  the 
liquor  into  the  pie,  and  put  on  the  upper  crust.  It  should  be  baked 
very  pale.  Put  no  cup  in  the  dish  when  you  make  apple-pie.  The 
flavor  of  a  quince  will  greatly  improve  it. 

155. — Open  Tarts. — Line  your  dishes  with  thin,  light  paste,  fill 
in  with  preserved  fruits  or  jam,  and  lay  strips  of  paste  across  in 
squares  or  diamonds.     A  short  time  will  bake  them. 

156.  Mince  Pies. — Take  equal  weights  of  tender  roast  beef,  suet, 
currants,  raisins,  and  apples  which  have  been  previously  pared1 
and  cored,  with  half  their  weight  of  soft  sugar,  one  ounce  of 
powdered  cinnamon,  an  equal  quantity  of  candied  orange  and 
lemon  peel  and  citron,  a  little  salt,  and  twelve  bitter  almonds- 
blanched  and  grated.  Chop  the  meat  and  the  suet  separately; 
wash  and  pick  the  currants,  stone  the  raisins  and  chop  them  withe 
thepeel;  and  having  minced  all  the  ingredients  very  fine,  mix 
them  together,  adding  a  nutmeg  grated  and  the  juice  of  a  lemon. 
A  glass  or  two  of  wine  or  spirit  greatly  improves  it.  Line  your 
dish  or  patty -pans  with  puff-paste;  fill  with  the  mince,  cover  and 
pinch  the  edges  together,  iiake  half  an  hour.  Many  persons 
make  the  mince  without  meat. 

157.  Christmas  Pudding. — Cover  the  bottom  of  a  baking-dish 
with  very  thin  slices  of  stale  bread-and-butter,  with  the  crust  cut 
off;  strew  it  over  thickly  with  mincemeat,  then  put  another  layer 
of  bread-and-butter,  cover  this  again  with  mincemeat,  and  so  -on 
till  your  dish  is  full ;  pour  a  good  thick  custard  over  all,  and  bake 
it  for  an  hour,  or  an  hour  and  a  half,  according  to  the  size. 

158.  Pigeon  Pie. — Make  a  puff- paste  crust;  cover  the  dish;  let 
the  pigeons  be  very  nicely  picked  and  cleaned ;  season  them  with 
pepper  and  salt,  and  put  a  good  piece  of  fresh  butter  with  pepper 
and  salt  in  their  bellies;  lay  them  in  the  dish,  the  necks,  gizzards, 
livers,  pinions  and  hearts,  place  between,  with  the  yolk  of  a  hard- 
boiled  egg  and  a  beefsteak  in  the  middle ;  put  in  as  much  water  as 
will  almost  fill  the  dish,  lay  on  the  top  crust  and  bake  it  well.  It 
is  a  great  improvement  to  stuff  the  pigeons  with  forcemeat,  very 
highly  seasoned,  and  to  lay  forcemeat-balls  round  inside  the  dish. 


38 


domestic  cook:: i!  Y 


159.  Meat  and  Potato  Pie. — Mash  some  potatoes  with  pepper 
and  salt  and  milk,  and  line  a  baking-dish  with  the  same:  lay  on 
slices  of  cold  meat  of  any  kind,  with  salt,  pepper,  butter,  and  cat- 
sup; lay  on  more  potatoes,  then  more  meat,  then  another  layer  of 
potatoes  on  the  top.     Bake  it  till  it  is  quite  hot  through. 

160.  Giblet  Pie. — Take  two  sets  of  giblets  nicely  cleaned,  put  all 
but  the  livers  into  a  saucepan,  with  two  quarts  of  water,  twenty 
corns  of  whole  pepper,  three  blades  of  mace,  a  large  onion  and  a 
bunch  of  sweet  herbs;  cover  close,  and  stew  them  till  they  are 
tender;  then  have  a  good  crust  read y,  cover  the  dish,  lay  a  fine 
lumpsteak  at  the  bottom,  seasoned  with  pepper  and  salt;  lay  in 
the  giblets  with  the  livers,  and  strain  the  liquor  in  which  they 
were  stewed ;  season  it  with  pepper  and  salt  and  pour  it  into  the 
pie ;  put  on  the  top  crust,  and  bake  it  an  hour  and  a  half. 

161.  Eel  Pie. — Make  a  good' crust;  clean,  gut  and  wash  the  eels 
well,  cut  them  in  pieces  as  for  stewing;  season  them  with  pepper 
and  salt  and  a  little  beaten  mace,  according  to  jTour  taste.  Line 
the  sides  of  your  dish  with  crust,  fill  in  the  eels,  and  put  as  much 
water  as  the  dish  will  hold,  with  a  tablespoonful  of  catsup;  put 
on  the  cover  and  bake  it  well. 

162.  Directions  for  Cleansing  Dried  Currants  and  other  Fruit. — 
Put  them  into  warm,  not  hot  water;  rub  them  thoroughly,  take 
them  out  of  the  water  into  a  sieve,  leaving  the  sediment  behind 
in  the  pan.  Set  the  sieve  in  a  pan  of  water,  rub  the  currants 
well  about  in  the  sieve,  changing  the  water  till  all  the  dirt  is  re- 
moved; let  them  drain,  then  dry  them  in  a  clean  cloth  and  pick 
out  all  the  refuse  and  stones,  after  which  spread  them  on  a  large 
dish,  and  let  them  stand  in  the  sun,  or  at  a  good  distance  from  the 
fire,  to  dry  and  swell.     Pack  them  in  a  jar  for  use. 

Red  and  black  currants  should  be  held  by  the  stalks,  and  dipped 
into  a  basin  of  water  to  remove  the  dust,  then  stripped  into  a  dish. 
Cherries  should  be  stalked  and  wiped,  gooseberries  should  be 
picked  and  washed;  strawberries,  raspberries,  etc.,  do  not  require 
to  be  washed,  but  merely  to  have  the  stalks  taken  off,  raisins 
should  be  stoned  and  chopped;  apples  require  to  be  cored  and  sliced. 

163.  Cherry,  Gooseberry,  or  Currant  and  Rasp)berii~y  Pudding. — 
Make  a  good  crust,  and  line  a  pudding-basin,  previously  buttered, 
with  it;  pick  j^our  fruit  and  fill  the  basin;  put  in  a  very  little 
water  and  some  sugar,  wet  the  edge  of  the  paste  all  round,  then 
cover  tbe  top  with  a  crust  and  pinch  the  edges  together;  tie  a 
cloth  tightly  over,  and  boil  the  pudding  for  an  hour  and  a  half, 
or  two  hours,  according  to  its  size.  When  you  take  it  out  of  the 
pot  dip  the  basin  into  cold  water,  then  turn  the  pudding  out  on  to 
a  dish. 

164.  Boiled  Apple  Pudding. — Make  a  good  paste,  roll  it  out 
half  an  inch  thick,  but  quite  thin  round  the  edge;  pare  and  core 
apples  sufficient  to  fill  the  crust*  close  it  up,  tie  it  up  tight  in  a 
cloth,  and  boil  it  from  two  to  three  hours,  according  to  the  size. 
When  it  is  done,  turn  it  into  a  dish,  cut  a  piece  of  crust  out  of  the 
top,  put  in  a  good  lump  of  butter,  and  as  much  sugar  as  will 
sweeten  it  to  your  taste,  a  little  grated  lemon-peel,  and  one  drop 
of  oil  of  cinnamon;  stir  it  well  in  the  pudding,  lay  on  the  crust, 
and  send  it  to  table  hot. 


DOMESTIC    COOKERY. 


165.  Rich  Baked  Apple  Pudding.— Pave  twelve  large  apples, 
rake  out  the  cores,  and  put  them  into  a  saucepan  with  four  or  five 
spoonfuls  of  water;  boil  them  till  they  are  soft  and  thick;  beat 
them  well,  and  stir  in  a  pound  of  loaf-sugar,  the  juice  of  three 
lemons,  the  peel  of  two  lemons  cut  thin  and  beat  fine  in  a  mortar, 
two  drops  of  oil  of  cinnamon,  and  the  yolks  of  eight  eggs  beaten 
up ;  mix  all  together ;  put  it  in  a  puff  paste,  to  bake  it.  When  it 
is  nearly  done  throw  over  it  a  little  grated  loaf-sugar. 

166.  Apple  Dumplings. — Make  a  good  paste,  pare  some  large 
apples,  cut  them  in  quarters,  take  out  the  cores,  and  in  place  of 
them  put  in  a  clove  and  a  piece  of  lemon-peel  cut  very  thin; 
take  a  piece  of  crust  enough  for  one  apple,  roll  it  round,  put  the 
quarters  together,  and  roll  the  crust  round  it  with  a  little  flour 
in  your  hand.  Have  a  pot  of  water  boiling,  take  a  clean  cloth, 
dip  it  into  the  water,  shake  flour  over  it,  and  tie  each  dumpling 
by  itself,  put  them  in,  and  keep  the  water  boiling  all  the  time;  if 
the  apples  be  not  large,  half  an  hour  will  boil  them.  When  they 
are  done  enough  take  them  up,  lay  them  on  a  dish,  throw  fine 
sugar  over  them,  and  send  them  to  table  with  fresh  melted  butter 
in  a  boat  and  fiae-beaten  sugar  in  a  saucer. 

167.  Plain  Suet  Pudding.— Chop  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  suet 
very  fine,  and  mix  it  with  half  a  pound  of  flour,  a  few  bread- 
crumbs, and  a  little  salt;  when  mixed  together  make  it  into  a 
paste  with  a  little  water,  not  too  stiff,  dip  your  cloth  into  hot 
water,  flour  it,  and  tie  up  the  pudding  tight;  put  it  into  a  sauce- 
pan of  boiling  water,  and  let  it  boil  for  an  hour  and  a  half.  This 
is  made  richer  by  adding  a  couple  of  eggs,  and  using  milk  instead  of 
water. 

168.  Currant  Dumplings.— Pick  and  wash  a  pound  of  currants, 
dry  them,  and  lay  them  on  a  plate  before  the  fire.  Chop  a  pound 
of  suet  very  small,  and  put  it  into  eight  spoonfuls  of  flour,  with 
two  teaspoon fuls  of  salt,  and  three  of  ginger;  now  add  the  cur- 
rants, and  mix  all  well  together ;  then  beat  up  four  eggs  with  a  pint 
of  milk;  add  this  by  degrees  to  the  other  ingredients,  and  make  it 
into  a  light  paste ;  roll  it  up  into  balls  as  large  as  a  turkey's  egg, 
with  a  little  flour;  flatten  them  a  little  and  put  them  into  boiling 
water;  move  them  gently,  that  they  may  not  stick  together.  Half 
an  hour  will  boil  them. 

169.  Yorkshire  Pudding.— Mix  up  a  quart  of  milk,  four  eggs, 
ami  a  little  salt,  into  a  thick  batter  with  flour,  as  for  pancakes. 
Have  a  good  piece  of  meat  roasting  at  the  fire;  put  a  lump  of 
dripping  into  a  stewpan,  and  set  it  on  the  fire;  when  the  fat  boils  ^ 
pour  in  the  pudding;  let  it  bake  till  nearly  done,  then  take  away 
the  dripping-pan  and  set  the  stewpan  under  the  meat,  that  the 
gravy  and  dripping  may  drop  on  the  pudding,  and  the  heat  of  the 
fire  may  reach  it  and  make  it  brown.  When  the  meat  is  done, 
drain  the  fat  from  the  pudding,  slide  it  as  dry  as  possible  into  a 
dish,  and  serve  it  up  with  the  meat. 

170.  Currant  Bolster  Pudding. — Make  a  good  paste,  and  roll  it 
out  very  thin;  have  ready  some  currants  well  picked  and  washed, 
which  strew  pretty  thickly  all  over  the  paste,  roll  it  up,  scald  and 
four  your  cloth,  and  roll  the  pudding  in  it;  after  which  tie  the 
cloth  tightly  at  each  end,  put  it  into  boiling  water,  and  let  it  boil 


40 

DOMESTIC    COOKER  Y 


for  an  hour  and  a  half  or  two  hours.  Jelly,  jam,  or  mincemeat 
is  Very  good,  spread  over  the  paste,  instead  of  currants. 

171/  Plum,  Pudding. — Take  half  a  pound  of  flour,  a  pound  of 
•stale  bread-crumbs,  a  pound  of  beef  chopped  fine,  a  pound  of 
currants  well  picked,  washed,  and  dried,  a  pound  of  raisins  stoned 
and  chopped,  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of  soft  sugar,  a  quarter 
of  a  pound  of  candied  orange  and  lemon  peel,  an  ounce  of  pow- 
dere  1  cinnamon,  half  an  ounce  of  ground  ginger,  a  nutmeg  grated, 
twelve  bitter  almonds  blanched  and  grated;  and  a  little  salt;  mix 
these  well  together;  then  beat  up  seven  eggs,  strain  them  through 
a  sieve,  and  add  a  little  sweet  milk  if  required.  Stir  this  well 
into  the  other  ingredients;  make  it  thick,  but  not  too  stiff.  Just 
bef  ore  you  are  going  to  boil  it  stir  into  it  a  glass  of  rum  or  brandy, 
scald  a  cloth,  flour  it,  and  lay  it  in  a  basin;  pour  in  your  pudding; 
then  have  ready  another  cloth,  also  scalded  and  floured,  which 
lay  over  the  top,  tie  it  round  tightly,  and  put  it  in  boiling  water, 
of  which  there  should  be  abundance,  as  well  as  plenty  of  room. 
Keep  it  boiling  for  six  or  seven  hours.  When  it  is  done  take  it 
out  of  the  pot,  let  it  stand  a  few  minutes  to  cool,  or  dip  it  into 
cold  water;  then  turn  it  out  into  a  dish,  and  serve  it  with  caudle- 
sauce.  A  plain  pudding  may  be  made  by  using  less  fruit  and 
spices. 

172.  Bread  Pudding. — Crumble  down  stale  bread  in  a  dish; 
boil  sufficient  milk,  which  pour  on  the  bread.  Cover  it  up  for  a 
quarter  of  an  hour,  that  the  bread  may  swell;  then  beat  it  up  to  a 
fine  pulp,  stirring  in  a  lump  of  butter.  Now  beat  up  three  or  four 
eggs,  ground  cinnamon,  gingev,  grated  lemon-peel,  and  sugar  to 
taste;  half  a  pound  of  raisins  stoned  and  chopped;  half  a  pound 
of  currants  picked  and  washed;  with  a  little  salt.  Mix  this 
among  the  bread;  make  it  of  the  consistence  of  thick  batter. 
Butter  the  dish,  pour  it  in,  and  bake  it  for  half  an  hour. 

173.  Bread  and  Butter  Pudding. — Cut  some  slices  of  thin  bread 
and  butter,  and  have  ready  some  currants  picked  and  washed. 
Butter  a  dish,  and  lay  slices  of  the  bread  and  butter  on  the  bot- 
tom of  it;  then  stew  some  currants  over  them,  then  lay  another 
row  of  bread  and  butter,  then  some  more  currants,  until  the  dish 
be  full.  Then  beat  up  four  eggs,  add  a  pint  of  new  milk,  a  little 
ground  cinnamon,  nutmeg,  grated  lemon-peel,  four  or  five  bitter 
almonds  blanched  and  crushed,  and  sugar  to  your  taste ;  also  a 
very  little  salt.  Mix  all  these  together,  and  pour  them  over  the 
bread  and  butter.     Bake  it  half  an  hour. 

174.  Hard  Dumplings. — Make  a  stiff  paste  of  flour  and  water 
with  a  little  salt.     Boil  them  with  salt  beef  or  pickled  pork. 

175.  Custard  Pudding. — Beat  up  six  eggs,  add  a  quart  of  new 
milk,  a  little  lomompeel  shred  fine,  five  or  six  bitter  almonds 
blanched  and  grated  or  crushed,  with  sugar  to  your  taste;  mix  all 
together;  then  have  ready  your  dish  covered 'with  a  good  puff- 
paste,  into  which  pour  the  custard;  grate  over  it  half  a  nutmeg, 
and  bake  it;  or  put  it  into  a  basin  without  paste,  tie  a  cloth  over 
it,  and  boil  it.     If  boiled,  serve  it  with  melted  butter. 

..•  170.  Boiled  Bice  Pudding. — Pick  and  wash  your  rice,  put  it  into 
a  clean  saucepan  with  plenty  of  water,  but  without  a  cloth;  let  it 
boil  till  the  grains  are  swelled  and  soft,  which  they  will  be  in 


il 

DOMESTIC    COOKERY. 


about  twenty  minutes  after  it  boils :  then  strain  off  the  water,  and 
set  the  saucepan  on  the  hob,  that  the  rice  may  be  perfectly  dry; 
put  it  into  a  buttered  mould  or  basin  to  set ;  then  turn  it  out,  and 
pour  sweet  sauce  over  it. 

177.  Baked  Rice  Pudding. — Boil  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  rice  in 
a  quart  of  new  milk,  and  stir  it  that  it  may  not  burn ;  when  it  be- 
gins to  thicken  take  it  off,  let  it  stand  till  cool,  then  stir  in  a  lump 
of  butter,  sugar  to  your  palate,  and  some  grated  nutmeg;  butter 
the  dish,  pour  it  in,  and  bake  it.  Raisins,  currants,  or  sliced 
apples  may  be  stirred  in  if  liked. 

178.  Rich  Rice  Pudding.— Tick  and  wash  a  quarter  of  a  pound 
of  rice;  put  it  on  in  cold  water,  and  let  it  boil  for  five  minutes, 
then  strain  the  water  off  and  put  the  rice  on  again  in  as  much  new 
milk  as  it  will  require  to  boil  it  quite  soft,  with  a  good  pinch  of 
salt;  stir  it  frequently  to  prevent  it  burning;  when  done,  put  it  in 
a  large  basin  to  cool.  Beat  up  six  eggs,  a  pint  of  milk,  and  sugar 
to  your  taste;  it  should  be  rather  too  sweet  when  you  make  it,  as 
the  sweetness  goes  off  in  the  baking;  add  also  five  or  six  bitter 
almonds  blanched  and  crushed,  with  plenty  of  lemon-peel  chopped 
very  fine ;  mix  all  well  together,  then  stir  it  into  the  rice,  taking- 
care  to  mix  it  thoroughly,  so  that  there  be  no  lumps.  Butter  your 
dish,  and  pour  in  the  mixture;  and  then  shred  about  two  ounces 
of  beef  suet  as  finely  as  possible  all  over  the  top*  grate  over  that 
half  a  nutmeg,  and  bake  it  half  an  hour  in  a  moderate  oven. 

179.  Tapioca  Pudding.— Take  six  tablespoon fuls  of  tapioca,  and 
soak  it  in  milk  for  some  hours  before  you  intend  to  use  it ;  when 
you  are  going  to  make  your  pudding,  put  the  tapioca  into  a  quart 
of  milk,  place  it  on  the  fire,  and,  as  soon  as  it  boils,  sweeten  it  to 
your  taste,  and  let  it  simmer  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour;  be  very- 
careful  that  it  does  not  burn  to  the  pot.  Pour  it  into  a  basin,  and 
stir  into  it  a  little  fresh  butter  and  three  eggs  beaten;  butter  your 
dish,  pour  it  in,  and  bake  it  for  an  hour.  If  you  wish  it  boiled, 
you  must  add  another  egg  and  boil  it  for  an  hour  and  a  half. 
Sago-pudding  may  be  made  the  same  way. 

180.  Yeast  Dumplings. — Make  a  light  dough,  as  for  bread,  with 
flour,  water,  salt,  and  yeast;  cover  it  with  a  cloth,  and  set  it  be- 
fore the  fire  for  half  an  hour;  then  have  a  saucepan  of  boiling 
water,  make  the  dough  into  round  balls,  the  size  of  a  hen's  egg, 
and  put  them  in.  Ten  minutes  will  boil  them ;  be  sure  to  keep  the 
water  boiling  all  the  time,  or  thejr  will  sink  and  be  heavy.  When 
they  are  done  enough,  which  they  will  be  in  rather  less  than  ten 
minutes,  take  them  out  with  a  slice,  put  them  into  a  hot  dish,  and 
send  up  melted  butter  and  sugar  in  a  boat. 

181.  Lemon  Pudding.— Take  the  yolks  of  six  eggs  well  beaten, 
with  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  sugar ;  take  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
butter  melted  in  as  little  water  as  possible;  be  careful  not  to  oil 
it;  keep  stirring  it  till  cold;  then  mix  all  together  with  the  juice 
of  two  lemons,  and  the  peel  grated  in.  Cover  your  dish  with  a 
thin  puff-pasteppour  in  the  mixture,  and  bake  it  for  half  an  hour. 

182.  Snow-balls. — Swell  rice  in  milk;  strain  it,  and  lay  it  round 
some  apples,  previously  pared  and  cored;  put  a  bit  of  cinnamon. 
lemon-peel,  and  a  clove  in  each,  then  tie  them  in  a  cloth  and  boil 
them  well;  they  are  eaten  with  melted  butter  and  sugar. 


42 

DOMESTIC    COOKERY. 


183.  Batter  Pudding. — Beat  up  six  eggs,  take  a  quart  of  milk, 
.six  spoonfuls  of  flour,  eight  bitter  almonds  blanched  and  grated, 
a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  one  of  ground  ginger;  mix  all  together, 
butter  your  basin,  and  pour  it  in ;  tie  a  cloth  over  it  and  boil  it  an 
hour  and  a  quarter.  When  it  is  done,  turn  it  into  a  dish  and  pour 
melted  butter  and  sugar  over  it. 

184.  Batter  Pudding  without  Eggs. — Use  a  quart  of  milk,  mix 
six  spoonfuls  of  flour  with  a  little  of  the  milk  first,  add  the  rest  by 
degrees,  with  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  two  of  beaten  ginger,  and  two 
of  the  tincture  of  saffron;  mix  all  together  quite  smooth,  and  boil 
it  for  an  hour  either  in  a  buttered  cloth  or  basin. 

185.  Pleas  Pudding. — Pick  and  well  wash  the  best  split  peas,  tie 
them  loosely  in  a  cloth,  and  let  them  boil  for  two  or  three  hours, 
untie  the  cloth,  and  mash  the  peas  with  a  wooden  spoon  till  quiter 
smooth ;  put  in  a  good  lump  of  butter,  and  pepper  and  salt,  tie  up 
the  pudding  again,  and  boil  it  for  another  half  hour.  It  is  then 
ready. 

186.  Norfolk  Dumplings. — Take  half  a  pint  of  milk,  two  eggs, 
and  a  little  salt;  make  it  into  a  batter  with  flour.  Have  ready  a 
clean  saucepan  of  boiling  water,  into  which  drop  the  batter.  Let 
the  water  boil  fast,  and  two  or  three  minutes  will  boil  them 
enough ;  then  throw  them  into  a  sieve  to  drain  the  water  from 
them,  turn  them  into  a  dish,  and  stir  a  lump  of  butter  among 
them.     Eat  them  hot. 

187.  Curate,  or  Sponge-Puddiyig. — Beat  up  two  eggs  with  their 
weight  in  flour,  in  good  fresh  butter  and  in  pounded  sugar;  add 
two  drops  of  essence  of  lemon;  when  well  mixed  pour  it  into  four 
tea-cups,  previously  well  buttered,  and  bake  in  a  moderatel}'-  quick 
oven.  To  be  served  with  wine-sauce  in  a  boat,  not  poured  over  the 
puddings.  This  dish  is  fit  for  any  table;  it  is  quickly  and  easily 
made,  and  if  not  eaten  as  pudding*  with  sauce,  is  exceedingly  good 
as  cake  when  cold. 

188.  Cabinet  Pudding. — Over  six  sponge-cakes  pour  sufficient 
sherry  to  soak  them  thoroughly;  meanwhile  beat  up  six  new-laid 
eggs  with  a  quart  of  new  milk,  sweetening  with  pounded  loaf 
sugar.  Put  your  cakes  into  the  custard  without  beating  them  to- 
gether, and  turn  the  whole  into  a  mould  or  basin,  previously  well 
buttered;  tie  a  paper  over  the  top,  and  steam  the  pudding  for  an 
hour.  For  sauce,  beat  up  the  yolks  of  eggs  and  sherry ;  heat  them 
over  the  fire,  not  allowing  them  to  boil,  but  keep  whisking  them 
all  the  time.     Pour  this  over  the  pudding. 

189.  Pancakes. — Beat  up  three  eggs  and  a  quart  of  milk;  make  it 
up  into  a  batter  with  flour,  a  little  salt,  a  spoonful  of  ground 
ginger,  and  a  little  grated  lemon-peel;  let  it  be  of  a  fine  thickness 
and  perfectly  smooth.  Clean  your  frying  pan  thoroughly,  and  put 
into  it  a  good  lump  of  dripping  or  butter;  when  it  is  hot  pour  in 
a  cupful  of  batter,  and  let  it  run  all  over  of  an  equal  thickness; 
shake  the  pan  frequently,  that  the  batter  may  not  stick,  and  when 
you  think  it  is  done  on  one  side  toss  it  over ;  if  you  cannot,  turn 
it  with  a  slice ;  and  when  both  sides  are  of  a  nice  light  brown,  lay 
it  on  a  dish  before  the  fire ;  strew  sugar  over  it,  and  so  do  the  rest. 
They  should  be  eaten  directly,  or  they  will  become  heavy. 

190.  Fruit  Fritters. — Make  a  batter  of  flour,  milk,  and  eggs,  of 


43 


DOMES*  ;C   COOKERY. 


whatever  richness  you  desire;  stir  into  it  either  raspberries,  cur- 
rants, or  any  other  fruit.     Fry  in  hot  lard,  the  same  as  pancakes. 

191.  Apple  Fritters.—  Make  "batter  as  above,  only  thicker;  pare 
apples;  cut  them  in  quarters,  and  core  them;  then  take  up  a  quar- 
ter of  apple,  with  some  batter,  and  fry  then  on  both  sides,  in  hot 
fat,  the  same  as  pancakes. 

192.  Hasty  Pudding.—  Boil  a  quart  of  milk  with  four  bay-leaves; 
beat  up  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  and  a  little  salt;  stir  in  the  milk; 
then  take  out  the  bay  leaves,  and  with  a  wooden  spoon  in  one 
hand  with  the  other  sprinkle  in  flour,  and  keep  stirring  it  till  it  is 
of  a  good  thickness.  Let  it  boil,  and  keep  it  stirring ;  then  pour 
it  into  the  dish,  and  stick  pieces  of  butter  here  and  there. 


PASTRY,  CONFECTIONERY,  BREAD,  &c. 

193.  Bread.— Put  a  peck  of  good  flour  into  a  pan  or  trough,  and 
mix  with  it  three  pints  of  warm  water  and  half  a  pint  of  good 
yeast ;  stir  it  well  with  the  hands  till  it  becomes  tough ;  leave  it  to 
rise;  then  add  another  two  quarts  of  warm  water  and  a  quarter 
of  a  pound  of  salt ;  knead  it  well,  and  cover  a  cloth  over  it ;  then 
begin  to  heat  the  oven ;  by  the  time  it  is  hot  enough  the  dough 
will  be  ready  to  put  in.  Make  up  the  dough  into  loaves  of  three 
pounds  each;  clean  out  the  oven,  and  set  in  the  bread;  close  the 
oven-door,  and  keep  it  shut  till  the  bread  is  done,  which  will  be  in 
about  two  hours.  Some  persons  mix  boiled  potatoes  mashed  with 
the  flour ;  they  make  the  bread  lighter. 

194.  French  Bread  and  French  Bolls. — Mix  the  yolks  of  twelve 
eggs  and  the  whites  of  eight,  beaten  and  strained,  a  peck  of  fine 
flour,  and  a  quart  of  good  yeast  (but  not  bitter),  with  as  much 
warm  milk  as  will  make  the  whole  into  a  thin,  light  dough ;  stir  it 
well,  but  do  not  knead  it.  Put  the  dough  into  dishes,  and  set  it 
to  rise;  then  turn  it  into  a  quick  oven;  when  done  rasp  the 
loaves. 

French  rolls  are  made  by  rubbing  into  every  pound  of  flour  an 
ounce  of  butter,  one  egg  beaten,  a  little  yeast,  and  sufficient  milk 
to  make  a  dough  moderately  stiff;  beat  it  up,  but  do  not  knead 
it.  Let  it  rise,  and  bake  in  rolls  on  tins;  when  baked,  rasp 
them. 

195.  Fine  Rolls. — Warm  a  bit  of  butter  in  half  a  pint  of  milk; 
add  to  it  two  spoonfuls  of  small-beer  yeast  and  some  salt;  with 
these  ingredients  mix  two  pounds  of  flour;  let  it  rise  an  hour,  and 
knead  it  well ;  form  the  rolls,  and  bake  them  in  a  quick  oven  for 
twenty  minutes. 

196.  Tea  Cakes.—  These  are  prepared  the  same  as  bread,  substi- 
tuting for  the  water  warm  milk,  with  a  little  butter  melted  in  it,. 
and  sugar ;  let  it  rise ;  knead  it  into  thin  cakes,  which  bake  on  an 
iron  plate  over  the  fire. 

197.  Yorkshire  Cakes. — Beat  three  pounds  of  flour,  a  pint  and  a 
half  of  warm  milk,  four  spoonfuls  of  yeast,  and  four  eggs,  well 
together ;  then  let  them  rise  in  the  tins  before  you  bake.  Put  them 
in  a  slow  oven. 

198.  To  Make  a  Plum  Cake.— Take  half  a  quartern  of  dough, 


44 
domestic:  COOKERY. 


put  it  into  a  pan,  and  mix  well  into  it  half  a  pound  of  butter,  half 
a  pound  of  sugar,  one  pound  of  currants,  a  little  mixed  spice,  a 
few  carraway-seeds,  some  candied  orange  and  lemon  peel  shred 
fine,  a  few  bitter  almonds  blanched  and  crushed,  and  two  eggs; 
knead  these  ingredients  well  together;  butter  your  tin;  pour  in 
the  cake  and  bake  it. 

199.  Pound  Cake.—  Take  of  flour,  butter,  and  powdered  sugar, 
of  each  one  pound,  eight  yolks  and  four  whites  of  eggs,  and  a  few 
carraway  seeds ;  first  beat  up  the  butter  to  a  cream — keep  beating  it 
one  way — then  gradually  beat  in  the  eggs,  sugar,  and  flour.  Bake 
it  in  a  warm  oven  for  an  hour  and  a  quarter.  Cover  the  sides  and 
bottom  of  the  tin  with  buttered  paper. 

200.  Seed  Cake.. — To  half  a  quartern  of  dough  put  about  six 
ounces  of  good  dripping,  the  same  quautity  of  sugar,  a  few  car- 
ra way-seeds,  and  one  egg.  Mix  all  together,  put  it  in  a  tin,  or  deep 
dish,  and  bake  it. 

301.  Ginger  Nuts. — Six  pounds  of  flour,  a  pound  and  a  quarter 
of  butter  rubbed  into  a  pound  and  throe-quarters  of  sugar;  a  quart 
of  treacle,  four  ounces  of  ginger,  a  nutmeg,  and  a  little  cinnamon. 
Make  the  dough  stiff,  and  then  knead  it  hard  for  some  time.  Cut 
them  into  cakes,  and  bake.  They  will  keep  good  a  long  while  in  a 
closely -covered  stone  jar. 

202.  Gingerbread. — Use  three  pounds  of  treacle,  four  beaten 
eggs,  a  pound  of  brown  sugar,  two  ounces  of  finely  powdered 
ginger ;  and  of  cloves,  mace,  and  nutmeg,  a  quarter  of  an  ounce 
each;  of  fine  coriander  and  carraway -seeds,  one  ounce  each;  and 
four  pounds  of  butter  melted.  Mix  the  whole  together,  and 
add  as  much  flour  as  will  knead  it  into  a  very  stiff  paste;  roll  it 
out,  cut  it  into  what  form  you  choose,  and  bake  it  in  a  moderate 
oven. 

203.  Arrotvroot  Blancmange. — Take  a  quart  of  sweet  milk,  put 
about  three  parts  of  it  into  a  saucepan,  sweeten  it  with  white 
sugar,  and  set  it  on  the  fire.  Mix  three  tablespoonf ids  of  arrowroot 
with  the  rest  of  the  milk,  using  a  little  at  a  time,  so  as  to  have  it 
completely  smooth  and  well-mixed.  When  the  milk  in  the  sauce- 
pan boils  pour  in  the  arrowroot,  stirring  it  quickly,  to  prevent  it 
being  lumpy;  it  will  thicken  immediately.  Let  it  boil  for  two  or 
three  minutes.  Wet  a  mould  with  cold  milk,  and  pour  in  the 
arrowroot,  after  stirring  in  two  or  three  drops  of  oil  of  lemons. 
Let  it  stand  till  cold,  then  turn  it  out  on  a  glass  or  china  dish. 

204.  Gooseberry  Fool. — Pick  a  quart  of  full-grown  unripe  goose- 
berries, and  put  them  into  a  saucepan  with  a  little  water.  Cover 
them  up  and  let  them  simmer  veiy  softly.  When  they  are  tender, 
but  not  so  much  done  as  to  burst,  take  them  off,  strain  the  water 
from  them,  and  turn  them  into  a  dish.  Now  bruise  them  to  a  fine 
pulp,  and  sweeten  them  with  sugar  to  your  taste.  Let  them  stand 
till  cool,  and  then  add  new  milk  or  cream. 

205.  Goosebewy  Jam. —  To  every  pound  of  red  rough  goose- 
berries add  a  pound  of  sugar;  bruise  the  gooseberries  in  a  mortar, 
and  boil  them  well.     When  cold  put  the  jam  in  pots. 

206.  Blackben-y  Jam. — Allow  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of 
brown  sugar  to  a  pound  of  fruit.  Boil  the  fruit  half  an  hour; 
then  add  the  sugar,  and  boil  all  together  for  ten  minutes. 


45 

DOMESTIC  COOKERY 


207.  Raspberry  Jam. — Allow  a  pound  of  sugar  to  each  pound  of 
fruit :  press  them  with  a  spoon  in  an  earthen  dish,  add  the  sugar, 
and  boil  all  together  for  fifteen  minutes. 

208.  Strawberry  Jam  is  made  in  the  same  way. 

309.  CcUfs-Foot  Jelly.— Boil  two  calf's-feet  in  half  a  gallon  of 
water  till  it  is  reduced  to  a  quart;  strain  it,  let  it  stand  till  cold, 
skim  off  the  fat,  and  take  the  jelly  up  clean;  whatever  sediment 
remains  at  the  bottom,  leave  it.  Put  the  jelly  into  a  saucepan 
with  a  pint  of  mountain  wine,  half  a  pound  of  loaf  sugar,  and  the 
juice  of  four  lemons;  then  beat  up  six  whites  of  eggs  with  a  whisk, 
put  them  into  a  saucepan,  and  stir  all  together  till  it  boils.  When 
it  has  boiled  a  few  minutes  have  ready  a  large  flannel-bag  and 
pour  it  in.  It  will  run  through  quickly,  therefore  pour  it  in  re- 
peatedly till  it  runs  clear;  then  have  ready  a  large  basin,  with  the 
lemon-peels  cut  into  it  as  thin  as  possible ;  let  the  jelly  run  into  it, 
and  the  peels  will  impart  to  it  both  a  rich  amber  color  and  a  fine 
flavor.     Fill  the  glasses  with  a  clean  silver  spoon. 

210.  Red  Currant  Jelly.— Pick  the  currants  from  the  stalks  and 
put  them  into  stone  jars;  set  them  in  a  cool  oven  till  they  are  soft; 
then  strain  them  off,  and  to  every  pint  of  juice  add  one  pound  of 
loaf  sugar  pounded.  Boil  the  syrup  about  twenty  minutes,  skim- 
ming it  all  the  time;  pour  it  into  the  pots  boiling  hot,  as  it  will  set 
the  sooner.     Lay  brandied  paper  on  the  top. 

211.  Black  Currant  Jelly  may  be  made  in  the  same  way ;  only 
common  brown  sugar  may  be  used. 

212.  Apple  Jelly. — Take  two  dozen  of  large  golden  pippins  or 
golden  russets,  pare  them,  and  put  in  as  much  water  as  will  cover 
them;  let  them  boil  as  fast  as  possible  till  the  apples  are  reduced 
to  a  pulp;  strain  them  through  a  jelly-bag,  and  to  every  pint  of 
jelly  put  one  pound  of  fine  sugar ;  boil  it  over  a  quick  fire  for  a 
quarter  of  an  hour,  add  lemon- juice  to  your  taste,  keep  it  boiling, 
and  skim  it.  Try  a  little  on  a  plate ;  when  it  jellies,  or  sets,  it  is 
boiled  enough. 

213.  Rhubarb  Jam. — Peel  the  stalks,  and  cut  them  up  about  an 
inch  long;  put  them  into  a  broad  tin  or  copper  pan  with  sufficient 
water  to  let  them  float.  Let  it  boil  till  reduced  to  a  pulp,  keeping 
it  well  stirred  from  the  bottom.  Pass  the  pulp  through  a  co- 
lander or  coarse  sieve,  and  to  each  pint  add  from  three-quarters  of 
a  pound  to  a  pound  of  sugar,  either  loaf  or  moist;  put  it  back  into 
the  pan  and  boil  it  for  another  half  hour,  still  keeping  it  stirred. 
Try  now,  by  dropping  a  little  on  a  plate,  if  it  is  done  enough ;  it 
should  be  of  the  consistence  of  jelly ;  if  it  spread,  boil  it  a  little 
longer,  till  stiff  beneath  the  finger.  Pour  it  into  pots  or  jars,  and 
when  cold,  cover  and  tie  it  down  like  other  preserves. 

214.  Orange  Marmalade. — Cut  and  squeeze  Seville  oranges  ac- 
cording to  the  quantity  you  desire  to  make ;  then  take  out  the 
pulp,  leaving  the  rind  very  thin,  which  shred  quite  fine,  and  boil 
till  tender.  Then  boil  the  pulp  quite  soft  and  rub  it  through  a 
hair-sieve;  now  mix  the  juice,  pulp,  and  chips  together,  and  to 
every  pound  add  one  pint  of  clarified  sugar.  Boil  the  sugar  till  it 
snaps,  then  add  the  other  ingredients.  Let  them  boil  ten  minutes 
and  put  them  into  pots. 


46 

DOMESTIC  COOKERY. 


HOME-MADE  WINES  AND  COOLING  BEVERAGES. 

215.  Gooseberry. — Gather  when  half  ripe,  in  dry  weather.  Pick- 
clean,  put  a  peck  into  a  vessel ;  bruise  wi*h  a  piece  of  wood,  being 
careful  to  keep  the  seeds  whole.  Put  the  pulp  into  a  canvas  bag, 
press  out  the  juice;  to  1  gallon  of  which  add  about  2  pounds  of 
fine  loaf  sugar;  mix  the  whole  by  stirring  with  a  stick,  and  when 
the  sugar  is  dissolved,  pour  into  a  cask  which  will  exactly  contain 
it.  If  the  quantity  be  9  gallons,  stand  for  a  fortnight;  if  20,  40 
days;  and  so  in  proportion,  taking  care  to  keep  it  cool.  After 
standing  the  proper  time,  draw  off  from  the  lees,  and  put  into 
another  clean  vessel  of  equal  size,  or  the  same,  after  pouring* 
away  the  lees,  and  making  it  clean.  Let  a  cask  of  ten  or  twelve 
gallons  stand  about  three  months,  and  20  gallons  5  months,  after 
which  bottle  it  off. 

216.  Elder. — Pick  berries  when  ripe,  put  into  a  stone  jar,  set 
them  in  a  kettle  of  boiling  water  or  an  oven  till  the  jar  is  hot 
through,  then  take  them  out,  strain  through  a  coarse  sieve ;  squeeze 
the  berries,  and  put  the  juice  into  a  clean  vessel.  To  1  quart  of 
juice  put  one  pound  of  sugar;  boil,  and  skim  clean.  When  clear, 
pour  into  a  cask.  Close  up,  let  it  stand  6  months,  then  bottle, 
fining  it  by  adding  to  every  10  gallons  1  oz.  of  isinglass  dissolved 
in  cider,  a  quart  of  brandy  and  6  eggs. 

217.  Ginger. — To  7  gallons  of  water  put  19  pounds  of  sugar,  boil 
for  half  an  hour,  removing   scum  as  it  rises;  then  take  a  small 

Quantity  of  the  liquor,  add  it  to  9  ozs.  of  the  best  ginger  bruised, 
'ut  all  together,  when  nearly  cold,  chop  9  pounds  of  raisins  very 
small,  and  put  them  into  a  9  gallon  cask.  Slice  4  lemons  into  the 
cask  after  taking  seeds,  pour  the  liquor  over  them,  with  half  a 
pint  of  fresh  yeast.  Leave  it  unstopped  for  3  weeks,  keeping  it 
filled  up,  and  in  6  or  9  months  will  be  fit  for  bottling. 

218.  Red  Currant. — Gather  currants  in  dry  weather;  put  into  a 
pan  and  bruise  with  a  wooden  pestle ;  let  them  stand  about  20  hours, 
after  which  strain  through  a  sieve ;  add  3  pounds  of  finely  pow- 
dered sugar  to  every  gallon  of  the  liquor,  and,  after  shaking  well, 
fill  the  vessel.  If  it  does  not  prove  clear  in  2  or  3  months,  draw 
off  into  another  vessel,  and  let  it  stand  a  few  days  previous  to  bot- 
tling. 

219.  Raspberry. — Gather  them  ripe;  husk  and  bruise;  strain 
through  a  bag  into  jars  or  other  vessels.  To  1  gallon  of  juice  al- 
low 1 1-2  lb.  of  loaf  sugar.  When  dissolved,  decant  liquor  into  a 
cask.  When  fermented,  add  1  pint  of  white  wine,  or  1-2  a  pint  of 
proof  spirits  to  every  gallon  contained  in  the  cask,  and  hang  a 
bag  in  it  containing  1  oz.  of  bruised  mace.  In  three  months,  if 
kept  cool,  will  be  fit  for  use. 

220.  Mulberry. — Gather  on  a  dry  day,  when  just  changed  from 
redness  to  a  shining  black;  spread  thinly  on  a.  fine  cloth,  or  a 
clean  floor  or  table,  24  hours,  then  press  them.  Boil  1  gallon  of 
water  for  1  gallon  of  juice,  putting  1  oz.  of  cinnamon-bark,  and 
6  ozs.  of  sugar-candy  finely  powdered,  to  each  gallon  of  water. 
When  the  water  is  taken  off  and  settled,  skim  and  strain,  and  put 
it  to  the  mulberry- juice.  Add  to  1  gallon  of  the  mixture  a  pint  of 
white  or  Rhenish  wine.  Let  stand  in  a  cask  to  ferment  for  5  or  6 
days.     When  settled,  draw  off  into  bottles.     Keep  cool. 


47 

DOMESTIC    COOKERY 


221.  Damson. — Take  a  good  quantity  of  damsons  and  common 
plums,  which  should  be  tolerably  ripe,  slit  in  halves,  so  that  the 
stones  will  come  out,  then  wash  gently,  and  add  a  little  water  and 
honey.  To  every  gallon  of  the  pulp,  put  a  gallon  of  spring  water, 
with  a  few  cloves  and  bay -leaves;  boil  the  mixture,  and  add  as 
much  sugar  as  will  well  sweeten  it;  skim  off  froth,  and  let  it  cool. 
Now  press  the  fruit,  squeezing  out  the  liquor;  strain  through  a 
fine  strainer,  and  put  the  water  and  juice  together  into  a  cask. 
Let  it  stand  and  ferment  for  3  or  4  days:  fine  with  whites  of  eggs; 
draw  off  into  bottles  and  cork  well.     In  12  days  it  will  be  ripe. 

222.  Raisin. — Wash  well,  pick  them  from  the  stalks:  to  1  pound 
thus  prepared  and  chopped,  add  1  quart  of  water  which  has  been 
boiled  and  become  cold;  add  to  every  10  gallons  6  pounds  of  fine 
sugar.  Let  the  whole  stand  for  a  month,  stirring  it  frequently. 
Then  take  the  raisins  from  the  cask,  and  stop  the  liquor  closely  in 
the  vessel.  In  the  course  of  a  month,  let  it  be  racked  into  another 
vessel,  leaving  all  the  sediment  behind.  This  must  be  repeated  till 
it  becomes  fine;  then  add  1  dozen  Seville  oranges,  the  rinds  being 
pared  very  thin,  and  infused  in  2  quarts  of  brandy,  which  add  to 
the  liquor  at  its  last  racking.  Let  it  stand  in  the  cask  3  months, 
when  it  will  be  fit  for  bottling.  Should  remain  in  bottle  12  months. 

223.  Grape.  —Put  1  gallon  of  soft  water  to  1  gallon  of  ripe  grapes, 
bruise  and  let  stand  a  week,  stirring  occasionally;  then  draw 
the  liquor  off  fine.  To  one  gallon  of  wine  put  two  pounds  of  loaf 
sugar;  put  into  a  vessel,  buu  do  not  stop  it  till  it  has  done  hissing; 
then  stop  close,  and  in  6  months  will  be  fit  to  bottle. 

224.  Orange. — Take  200  oranges,  peel  very  thin,  put  peels  into 
18  gallons  of  water,  let  them  boil  for  10  or  12  hours,  till  color  and 
taste  are  all  extracted.  Squeeze  into  it  the  juice  of  the  oranges 
through  a  sieve,  add  1-2  cwt.  of  sugar,  and  stir  till  all  is  dissolved. 
Let  it  stand  for  3  or  4  days,  then  barrel  it,  and  put  in  6  pounds  of 
raisins  and  a  gallon  of  brandy.  Work  it  with  a  little  yeast  on 
toast,  keep  the  cask  filled,  and  when  done  working,  bung  up  for 
12  months ;  then  bottle  off,  and  it  will  keep  for  twenty  years. 

225.  Effervescing  Draught.  — Beat  in  a  mortar  1  oz.  tartaric  acid ; 
divide  into  24  parts,  put  each  part  into  a  blue  paper;  pound  1  oz. 
of  bi-carbonic  of  soda,  dividing  into  24  parts,  putting  each  part 
into  white  paper.  These  are  then  ready  for  use.  When  a  draught 
is  required,  put  the  soda  into  a  tumbler  1-2  filled  with  water; 
when  dissolved,  add  acid.     Drink  while  effervescing. 

226.  Effervescing  Fruit  Drinks.— Put  strawberries,  raspberries, 
or  blackberries  into  good  vinegar,  then  strain  it  off,  adding  fresh 
fruit  till  the  flavor  is  sufficiently  strong.  Bottle,  and  when  about 
to  use,  dissolve  a  very  small  teaspoonful  of  soda  in  a  little  water; 
when  the  lumps  are  melted,  fill  up  the  tumbler  two-thirds,  add  the 
fruit-vinegar.     Should  be  drank  immediately  after  it  is  mixed. 

227.  Ginger  Beer. — Put  into  6  quarts  of  water  1  large  spoonful  of 
ginger,  1  also  of  cream  of  tarter,  1  pint  of  treacle,  and  1-4  of  a 
pint  of  home-brewed  yeast.     When  it  begins  to  ferment,  bottle  it. 

228.  Lemonade. — Shave  the  rind  of  2  lemons  very  thin  into  a 
jug,  remove  the  pith,  and  cut  the  fruit  in  thin  slices  on  the  peel; 
add  1-4  lb.  of  loaf  sugar,  and  pour  over  all  a  quart  of  boiling 
water.    An  agreeable  beverage  either  hot  or  cold. 


48 


HOW 


PICKLE 


PRESERVE. 


49 


HOW  TO  PICKLE. 


The  strongest  and  best  vinegar  should  be  vised  for  pickling.  It 
must  not  be  boiled,  or  the  strength  of  the  vinegar  and  spices  will  be 
evaporated.  By  parboiling  the  pickles  in  brine,  they  will  be  ready 
in  much  less  time  than  they  are  when  done  in  the  usual 
manner  of  soaking  them  in  cold  salt  and  water  for  six  or  eight 
days.  When  taken  out  of  the  hot  brine,  let  them  get  cold  and 
quite  dry  before  you  put  them  into  the  pickle. 

To  assist  the  preservation  of  pickles  a  portion  of  salt  is  added, 
and  for  the  same  purpose,  and  to  give  flavor,  long  pepper,  black 
pepper,  allspice,  ginger,  cloves,  mace,  garlic,  eschalots,  mustard, 
horseradish,* and  capsicum. 

The  following  is  the  best  method  of  preparing  the  pickle;  it  is 
as  cheap  as  any,  requires  less  care  than  any  other  way: — Bruise  in 
a  mortar  four  ounces  of  the  above  spices,  put  them  into  a  stone 
jar  with  a  quart  of  the  strongest  vinegar,  stop  the  jar  closely  with 
a  bung,  cover  that  with  a  bladder  soaked  with  pickle,  and  set  it  on  a 
trivet  by  the  side  of  the  fire  for  three  days,  well  shaking  it  up 
three  or  four  times  in  the  day.  The  jar  being  well  closed,  and  the 
infusion  being  made  with  a  mild  heat,  there  is  no  loss  by  evapora- 
tion. 

To  enable  the  articles  pickled  more  easily  and  speedily  to  im- 
bibe the  flavor  of  the  pickle  they  are  immersed  in,  previously  to 
pouring  it  on  them,  run  a  larding  pin  through  them  in  several 
places,  or  prick  them  with  a  fork. 

Pickles  should  be  kept  in  a  dry  place,  in  unglazed  earthenware, 
or  glass  jars,  which  ai*e  preferable,  as  you  can,  without  opening* 
them,  observe  whether  they  want  filling  up ;  they  must  be  very 
carefully  stopped  with  well-fitted  bungs,  and  tied  over  as  closely 
as  possible  with  a  bladder  wetted  with  the  pickle. 

When  the  pickles  are  all  used,  boil  up  the  liquor  with  a  little 
fresh  spice. 

To  walnut  liquor  may  be  added  a  few  anchovies  and  eschalots; 
let  it  stand  till  it  is  quite  clear,  and  bottle  it ;  thus  you  may  fur- 
nish your  table  with  an  excellent  savory  keeping  sauce  for  hashes, 
made  dishes,  fish,  &c,  at  very  small  cost. 

Jars  should  not  be  more  than  three  parts  filled  with  the  articles 
pickled,  which  should  be  covered  with  pickle  at  least  two  inches 
above  their  surface;  the  liquor  wastes,  and  all  of  the  articles 
pickled  that  are  not  covered  are  soon  spoiled. 

When  they  have  been  done  about  a  week  open  the  jars  and  fill 
them  up  with  pickle.  If  you  discern  in  them  any  symptoms  of 
not  keeping  well  do  them  over  again  in  fresh  vinegar  and  spice. 

Tie  a  wooden  spoon,  full  of  holes,  *or  a  wooden  fork,  round  each 


60 

HOW  TO  PICKLE  AND  PRESERVE. 


jar,  to  take  them  out  with;  and  if  you  take  out  more  pickles  than 
you  require  to  use,  do  not  put  what  is  left  back  into  the  jar. 

If  you  wish  to  have  your  pickles  of  a  nice,  but  perfectly  harm- 
less green,  nothing  succeeds  better  than  boiling  the  vegetables 
in  water  made  slightly  alkaline,  sometimes  either  with  a  small 
quantity  of  bicarbonate  of  of  soda,  sometimes  with  lime-water, 
and  sometimes  with  saccharate  of  lime,  or  with  water  containing 
a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  liquid  ammonia  to  the  quart. 

If  you  wish  cauliflowers,  onions,  etc. ,  to  be  white,  use  distilled 
vinegar  for  them. 

Last  of  all,  do  not  use  brass  or  copper  kettles  for  pickling;  as 
the  verdigris  produced  in  them  by  the  vinegar  is  of  a  most  pois- 
onous nature  when  the  vinegar  is  allowed  to  cool  in  them.  Glazed 
kettles  are  the  best,  but  if  you  cannot  procure  them,  block  tin 
may  be  substituted.  Iron  is  apt  to  discolor  any  acid  that  is  boiled 
in  it. 

RED  CABBAGE. 

Red  cabbage  should  be  pickled  in  September.  Having  taken  off 
the  large  outside  leaves,  cut  the  cabbage  into  quarters,  taking  out 
the  stalk.  Then  shred  the  whole  into  a  colander,  and  sprinkle 
with  salt,  in  which  let  them  remain  for  about  twenty-four  hours, 
when  they  must  be  drained  and  put  into  a  jar,  and  have  the  fol- 
lowing pickle  poured  over  them  cold:  To  each  quart  of  vinegar 
put  an  ounce  of  ground  black  pepper,  half  an  ounce  of  pounded 
ginger,  some  salt,  and  horseradish  cut  in  slices,  and  a  few  capsi- 
cums or  cayenne,  according  to  taste.  Put  all  these  into  a  jar  stop- 
ped close,  and  let  them  steep  three  days  on  a  trivet  by  the  side  of 
the  fire,  and  when  cold  strain  the  liquor  through  a  cloth,  and  pour 
it  on  the  cabbage. 

ONIONS. 

Choose  small  button  onions,  as  near  of  a  size  as  possible ;  throw 
them  into  warm  water,  which  will  prevent  their  affecting  the 
eyes  so  much  while  peeling  them.  As  they  are  peeled,  throw 
them  into  a  strong  brine  of  salt  and  water ;  let  them  remain  in 
this  till  the  next  day ;  then  put  them  on  the  fire,  and  boil  them  in 
it  for  a  minute.  Or,  as  they  are  peeled,  throw  them  into  milk 
and  water.  Drain  them  from  this  when  they  are  all  done ;  put 
them  into  a  jar,  and  pour  the  brine  on  them  boiling  hot.  Cover 
them  close,  and  set  them  aside  till  the  next  day.  Drain,  and  dry 
them  in  a  cloth ;  put  them  into  cold  distilled  vinegar,  with  a  few 
blades  of  bruised  ginger,  some  whole  pepper,  and,  if  approved, 
a  little  mace  and  sliced  horseradish.  Keep  them  always  well 
covered  with  vinegar.  Cork  the  jar  close,  and  put  it  in  a  cool, 
dry  place. 

FRENCH  BEANS  OR  GHERKINS. 

Put  the  beans  or  gherkins  into  a  brine  of  salt  and  water  made 
strong  enough  to  float  an  egg ;  let  them  remain  in  this  for  four  or 
five  days,  or  a  week ;  take  them  from  the  brine,  and  put  them 
into  a  saucepan  with  equal  quantities  of  vinegar  and  water  suffi- 
cient for  them  to  float  in ;  heat  them  in  this  until  it  is  scalding  hot 
or  almost  boiling,  but  it  must  not  boil.    Keep  them  at  this  heat 


61 


HOW  TO  PICKLE  AND  PRESERVE. 


for  an  hour  or  two,  and  put  them  into  a  jar  or  pan  to  cool,  in  the 
liquor  they  were  scalded  in.  if  they  are  not  sufficiently  green, 
heat  them  again,  and  let  them  cool  as  before.  That  is  the  proper 
way  to  preserve  the  green  color.  When  cold,  drain  the  vinegar 
and  water  from  them,  and  put  them  into  cold  vinegar  with  bruis- 
ed ginger,  whole  allspice,  mace,  and  pepper.  Cork  the  jars  close, 
tie  them  over  with  leather  or  pieces  of  bladder,  and  keep  them  in 
a  cool,  dry  place. 

Gherkins  for  pickling  should  be  about  the  size  of  a  finger, 
smaller  than  this  they  have  not  attained  their  flavor;  French 
beans,  quite  young,  or  before  they  are  half  grown. 

CUCUMBERS. 

Cucumbers  may  be  preserved  in  the  same  manner  as  the  French 
beans  and  gherkins,  or  the  skin  may  be  thinly  pared  off,  and  each 
cut  in  two,  the  seeds  taken  out,  and  preserved  ilike  the  preceding, 
or  as  follows:— Cut  a  piece  from  the  end  of  each,  leaving  it  hang- 
ing to  a  bit  of  the  skin,  scoop  out  the  seeds,  and  put  them  into  a 
strong  brine.  Take  them  out  at  the  expiration  of  a  week;  fill  the 
insides  with  equal  parts  of  mustard-seed,  ground  ginger,  and  pep- 
per, mixed  with  some  small  onions  peeled,  or  a  few  heads  of  garlic 
and  some  whole  allspice.  Sew  or  tie  on  the  top  again,  green,  and 
finish  them  as  gherkins. 

Melons  and  mangoes  are  prepared  in  the  same  way. 

Cucumbers  for  pickling  should  be  full  grown,  but  not  over- 
grown; melons,  half  grown. 

CAULIFLOWERS  OR  BROCOLI. 

The  whitest  and  firmest  cauliflowers  that  can  be  obtained  should 
be  chosen  for  this  purpose.  Cut  or  break  the  flowers  into  small 
branches,  and  put  them  into  salt  and  water  for  a  week  or  ten 
days.  The  brine,  or  pickle,  should  be  made  strong  enough  with  salt 
for  an  egg  to  float  on  the  surface.  Take  them  from  the  brine,  and 
put  them  into  a  saucepan  of  clean  water.  Let  them  boil  for  about 
ten  minutes  or  a  quarter  of  an  hour,  or  until  they  begin  to  get 
tender;  but  they  must  not  be  done,  or  they  will  lose  their  crisp- 
ness.  Drain  them  from  the  water,  and  spread  them  on  a  coarse 
cloth,  or  on  sieves,  and  put  them  to  dry  in  the  sun  until  all  the 
moisture  is  evaporated;  then  put  them  into  a  jar,  and  cover  them 
with  distilled  or  white  wine  vinegar.  Mace,  long  pepper,  white 
peppercorns,  and  a  few  grains  of  allspice,  may  be  added  to  the 
vinegar,  which  should  be  kept  warm  for  some  time  by  the  side  of 
the  fire  to  extract  the  flavor  of  the  spice,  but  must  not  be  allowed 
to  boil.  Pour  the  vinegar  over  the  cauliflower  when  it  is  cold. 
Cork  the  jar  close,  and  put  it  aside  for  use.  Fill  the  jar  occasion- 
ally with  vinegar,  as  the  flowers  absorb  it. 

WALNUTS. 

Take  large,  full-grown  walnuts,  but  they  must  be  tender,  so 
that  they  can  be  easily  pierced  with  a  needle.  Lay  them  in  salt 
and  water  for  two  days,  then  shift  them  into  another  weak  brine; 
in  a  couple  of  days  put  them  into  fresh  water  for  two  days  longer, 
after  which  take  them  out  and  lay  them  on  a  board,  so  that  they 
may  not  touch  each  other;  let  them  stay  in  the  sun  for  a  day  or 


d2 


HOW  TO  PICKLE  AND  PRESERVE. 


two  till  they  are  perfectly  dry,  and  turn  black.  Then  put  them 
into  a  clean,  dry  stone  jar,  and  for  every  hundred  walnuts  allow 
half  a  pint  of  mustard-seed,  half  an  ounce  of  black  pepper,  half 
an  ounce  of  allspice,  a  quarter  of  an  ounce  of  mace,  six  bay- 
leaves,  and  a  stick  of  horseradish  sliced;  mix  these  ingredients 
with  the  walnuts,  which  should  fill  the  jar,  and  fill  up  with  boil- 
ing vinegar.  Put  a  plate  on  the  top,  and,  when  cold,  tie  them 
down  closely  with  bladder  and  leather.  They  will  be  ready  for 
use  in  two  or  three  months;  meanwhile  they' must  bo  examined 
occasionally,  and  kept  covered  with  vinegar.  Some  persons  put 
in  an  onion  stuck  with  cloves,  and  some  sliced  ginger. 

Another  Way. — Take  a  hundred  walnuts,  wipe  them,  prick  them 
with  a  larga  needle,  and  put  them  into  a  jar,  sprinkling,  as  you 
lay  them  in,  the  following  spices  mixed:  Cloves,  allspice,  nut- 
meg, whole  pepper,  and  sliced  ginger,  of  each  an  ounce;  half  a 
pint  of  mustard-seed,  four  cloves  of  garlic,  and  a  stick  of  horse- 
radish; then  add  two  tablespoon fuls  of  salt,  and  sufficient  boiling 
vinegar  to  cover  the  whole.  Cover  the  jar  as  above,  and  when 
cold  tie  down  closely. 

The  liquor  makes  excellent  catsup  for  flavoring  steaks,  chops, 
sauces,  and  stews. 

Another  Way. — Put  green  walnut  shells  into  a  brine  of  salt  and 
water  strong  enough  to  float  an  egg\  let  them  lie  covered  in  this 
ten  or  twelve  days;  take  them  out,  and  lay  them  in  the  sun  for  a 
week ;  put  them  Into  a  jar,  and  pour  boiling  vinegar  on  them ;  in 
about  a  week  or  ten  days  pour  off  the  vinegar,  make  it  boiling 
hot,  and  pour  o^er  them  again.  In  a  month  it  will  be  fit  for  use, 
and  will  be  found  excellent  to  eat  with  cold  meat,  and  particular- 
ly useful  in  making  many  sauces. 

♦  CELERY. 

Separate  the  stalks  from  the  heads;  cleanse  them  thoroughly, 
and  put  them  into  salt  and  water  strong  enough  to  bear  an  egg. 
Let  them  remain  in  this  for  a  week  or  ten  days,  or  until  wanted 
to  pickle;  then  take  them  out,  wash  them  well  in  clean  water, 
drain  dry,  place  in  a  jar  and  pour  boiling  vinegar  over,  to  which 
any  approved  spices  may  have  been  added,  as  is  usual  for  pickling. 
Keep  it  well  covered  with  vinegar.  If  the  celery  be  allowed  to 
remain  a  long  time  in  salt  and  water,  it  will  be  necessary  to  soak 
it  in  clean  water  for  a  day  or  two,  changing  the  water  occasion- 
ally. 

BEETROOT. 

Beetroots  should  be  pickled  in  September.  To  pickle  beetroots, 
boil  them  till  three-parts  done:  then,  when  cold,  peel  them  and 
cut  them  into  thin  slices ;  put  the  cut  slices  into  a  jar,  and  pour  on 
them  hot  spiced  vinegar,  sufficient  to  cover  the  whole.  After 
they  have  stood  a  month  they  will  be  fit  for  use,  and  will  be  found 
an  excellent  and  wholesome  pickle. 

NASTURTIUMS. 
There  are  two  varieties  of  nasturtium — the  major  and  minor; 
both  yield  seeds  fit  for  pickling,  which  are  an  excellent  substitute 
for  capers.     The  young  shoots  are  equally  as  good  as  the  seeds  for 


53 

HOW  TO  PICKLE  AND  PRESERVE. 


pickling,  and  their  flavor  improves  an  ordinary  salad  when  not 
used  in  excess.  The  method  of  pickling  nasturtium  is  as  follows: 
Fill  any  jar  with  the  nasturtium  seeds  or  shoots,  then  pour  on 
them  boiling  vinegar,  to  which  add  a  good  seasoning  of  salt.  Boil 
up  the  vinegar  every  three  days  till  the  pickle  is  of  a  good  color; 
then  add  a  little  ginger  and  whole  pepper.  Another  way  is  to 
cover  the  seeds  or  shoots  with  strong  brine,  set  the  jar  on  the 
trivet,  and  keep  them  hot  for  three  days ;  then  pour  off  the  brine, 
and  pour  on  scalding  vinegar,  and  keep  them  hot  for  a  week  or 
ten  days  till  they  are  of  good  color;  then  add  spice,  such  as  ginger 
and  pepper:  or,  better  still,  pour  off  the  last  vinegar,  and  add  in 
its  place  spiced  vinegar.  The  nasturtiums  should  be  full  grown, 
but  not  old;  they  are  ready  for  pickling  in  September. 

RED  CAPSICUMS. 

Red  capsicums  are  pickled  by  simply  putting  them  into  cold 
vinegar,  with  a  little  whole  allspice  and  mace.  Lay  green  capsi- 
oums  for  three  days  in  strong  brine ;  drain  them  from  this,  and 
put  them  into  cold  distilled  vinegar,  with  a  little  mace  and  whole 
allspice.    Nasturtium-buds  may  also  be  done  as  these. 

TOMATOES. 

Peel  them  without  putting  them  into  water  as  before  di- 
rected, slice  them  into  a  jar,  add  pepper  and  salt,  and  cover 
them  with  a  good  vinegar.  Excellent  with  cold  meat,  or  as  a 
salad  with  a  little  oil. 

Another  Way. — Take  any  quantity  of  green  tomatoes,  and  peel 
them.  To  two  quarts  of  tomatoes  add  three  or  four  small  green 
capsicums,  one  pint  of  small  onions,  scalded  in  salt  and  water  and 
peeled,  half  a  pound  of  salt,  and  one  pint  of  mustard-seed.  Chop 
the  whole  fine,  so  as  to  make  a  mince.  Strew  over  the  bottom  of 
a  jar  about  two  inches  thick  with  the  mince,  then  salt  and  mustard- 
seed,  and  again  mince,  until  the  whole  is  disposed  of;  set  it  away 
for  a  few  days  for  the  salt  to  dissolve,  and  cover  with  the  best 
vinegar. 

RADISH-PODS. 

Boil  some  vinegar  with  salt  and  spice,  and  when  cold  put  in  the 
radish-pods;  or  they  may  be  put  into  old  vinegar,  from  which 
green  pickles  or  onions  have  been  taken — only  boil  it  up  afresh. 
Radish-pods  make  an  excellent  pickle,  and",  like  nasturtiums, 
serve  as  a  good  substitute  for  capers. 

CHEAP  AND  WHOLESOME  PICKLES. 

Take  a  jar  with  a  close  lid  or  bung,  and  half  fill  it  with  the  best 
vinegar ;  then,  as  spare  vegetables  of  any  description  come  to  hand, 
such  as  small  beans,  cauliflowers,  radish-pods,  young  cucumbers, 
onions,  &c,  throw  them  in,  taking  care,  as  the  jar  fills,  that  there 
is  sufficient  vinegar  to. cover  the  vegetables.  When  nearly  full, 
add  mustard-seeds,  bruised  ginger,  eschalots,  whole  pepper,  &c, 
to  taste.  Tie  down  tightly  and  place  the  jar  in  a  vessel  of  water 
over  the  fire,  or  in  a  slow  oven  until  the  articles  are  sufficiently 
soft  to  suit  the  palate.  In  this  manner  good,  wholesome  pickles 
can  be  made  at  only  the  expense  of  the  vinegar  and  spice,  and 
with  the   least  possible  amount  of  trouble.     Of   course,    if   thy 


45 

HOW  TO  PICKLE  AND  PRESERVE. 


various  kinds  of  vegetables  are  wished  to  be  kept  distinct,  such 
may  be  done. 

AMERICAN  PICKLE. 

To  eight  quarts  of  cold  spring  water  add  seven  pounds  of  salt, 
ten  ounces  of  saltpetre,  and  one  pound  of  treacle;  mix  well  to- 
gether, and  let  it  stand  till  the  next  day;  it  will  then  be  ready  to 
receive  pork,  beef,  or  tongues.  This  pickle  possesses  many  ad- 
vantages; the  principal  one  is,  that  meat  preserved  in  it  never  gets 
hard,  or  too  salt ;  it  will  keep  good  from  three  to  five  months,  ac- 
cording to  the  quantity  of  provisions  cured  in  it. 

w  PICCALILLI. 

This  is  a  mixture  of  all  kinds  of  pickles.  Select  from  the  salt 
brine,  of  a  uniform  size  and  of  various  colors,  small  cucumbers, 
button  onions,  small  bunches  of  cauliflowers,  carrots  cut  in  fanci- 
ful shape,  turnips  sliced,  radishes,  radish-pots,  French  beans,  cay- 
enne-pods, mace,  ginger,  long  spice,  strips  of  horseradish,  &c.  Ar- 
range your  selection  tastefully  in  glass  jars,  and  pour  over  them  a 
liquor  prepared  in  the  following  manner: — To  one  gallon  of  whits 
wine  vinegar  add  eight  tablespoon fuls  of  salt,  eight  of  mustard- 
flour,  four  of  ground  ginger,  two  of  pepper,  two  of  allspice,  two 
of  turmeric,  and  boil  all  together  one  minute;  the  mustard  and 
turmeric  must  be  mixed  together  with  vinegar  before  they  are 
put  into  the  liquor ;  when  the  liquor  has  boiled  pour  it  into  a  pan, 
cover  it  closely,  and  when  it  is  cold  pour  it  into  the  jars  contain- 
ing the  pickles;  cover  the  jars  with  cork,  tie  them  down  with  blad 
der,  and  let  them  stand  six  months,  when  they  will  contain  good 
pickles.  Piccalilli  is  an  excellent  accompaniment  to  many  highly 
seasoned  dishes;  if  well  put  up,  it  will  keep  for  years.  If  you  like 
oil  in  the  piccalilli,  it  should  be  well  incorporated  with  the  vine- 
gar, and  added  with  the  other  ingredients  to  the  boiling  liquor. 

MIXED  PICKLE  AND  INDIA  PICKLE. 

Fill  a  large  jar  half  full  ot  brine  made  strong  enough  to  float  an 
egg.  Into  this  put,  as  convenient,  various  sort  of  vegetables  that 
are  usually  pickled,  such  as  small  onions,  radish-pods,  scalded 
branches  of  cauliflowers,  French  beans,  gherkins,  and  cucumbers 
sliced,  also  rock  samphire,  white  cabbage  sliced,  celery,  &c.  These 
may  lie  in  the  salt  and  water  until  the  whole  is  collected,  without 
being  injured,  observing  that  the  last  article  should  be  allowed  to 
remain  in  the  brine  for  ten  or  twelve  days;  then  take  them  out 
and  lay  them  on  sieves,  or  spread  out  on  cloths  to  drain  and  dry. 
When  dry,  pack  them  in  a  jar;  cover  them  with  cold  vinegar,  and 
let  them  remain  for  ten  days  or  a  fortnight  (a  month  or  two  will 
make  no  difference),  observing,  if  mixed  pickle  be  required,  to 
pour  off  the  vinegar,  boil  it  up,  and  pour  over  the  pickles  twice  or 
three  times ;  but  for  India  pickle,  prepare  a  gallon  of  vinegar, 
more  or  less  according  to  the  quantity  of  pickles  to  be  done,  in  the 
following  manner: — Mix  gradually  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  the 
best  flour  of  mustard,  and  two  ounces  of  powdered  turmeric,  with 
some  of  the  cold  vinegar  at  first,  to  ensure  its  being  properly  mix- 
ed ;  then  add  the  rest,  with  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  white  mustard- 
seed.     Bruise  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  ginger,  two  ounces  of  white 


55 

HOW  TO  PICKLE  AND  PRESERVE. 


£ 


epper,  and  one  ounce  of  chilies,  and  tie  them  in  a  muslin  bag. 

►oil  the  whole  gently  for  twenty  minutes  or  half  an  hour,  and 
pour  it,  whilst  boiling,  on  the  pickles,  having  previously  drained 
off  the  vinegar  they  were  first  put  in.  In  ten  or  twelve  days  re- 
peat the  boiling,  pour  it  over  the  pickles  whilst  boiling  hot,  and 
they  will  be  ready  for  use  when  cold. 


HOW   TO    PRESERVE. 


GENERAL  RULES  AND  DIRECTIONS. 

Let  everything  used  for  the  purpose  of  preserving  be  perfectly 
clean  and  dry ;  bottles  especially  so. 

Never  place  a  preserving-pan  flat  upon  the  fire,  as  this  wilt 
render  the  preserve  liable  to  burn ;  but  let  it  rest  on  a  trivet,  or 
on  the  lowered  bar  of  the  kitchen  range. 

After  having  added  the  sugar,  stir  the  preserves  gently,  gradual- 
ly increasing  the  motion,  not  ceasing  until  they  are  done ;  this 
precaution  will  always  prevent  the  chance  of  their  being 
spoiled. 

Clear  the  scum  off  the  top  of  the  jam  with  a  spoon  as  it  rises. 

Fruit  which  is  to  be  preserved  in  syrup  must  first  be  blanched 
or  boiled  gently,  until  it  becomes  soft  enough  to  absorb  the  sugar ; 
and  a  thin  syrup  must  be  poured  on  it  at  first,  or  it  will  shrivel 
instead  of  remaining  plump  and  becoming  clear.  Thus,  if  its 
weight  of  sugar  is  to  be  allowed,  and  boiled  to  a  syrup  with  a 
pint  of  water  to  the  pound,  only  half  the  weight  must  be  taken 
at  first,  and  this  must  not  be  boiled  with  the  water  more  than 
fifteen  or  twenty  minutes  at  the  commencement  of  the  process ;  a 
part  of  the  remaining  sugar  must  be  added  every  time  the  syrup 
is  reboiled,  unless  it  should  be  otherwise  directed  in  the  receipt. 

To  preserve  both  the  true  flavor  and  the  color  of  fruit  in  jams 
and  jellies,  boil  them  rapidly  until  they  are  well  reduced,  before 
the  sugar  is  added,  and  quickly  afterwards;  but  do  not  allow  them 
to  become  so  much  thickened  that  the  sugar  will  not  dissolve  in 
them  easily  and  throw  up  its  scum.  In  some  seasons  the  juice  is 
so  much  richer  than  in  others,  that  this  effect  takes  place  almost 
before  one  is  aware  of  it ;  but  the  drop  which  adheres  to  the  skim- 
mer, when  it  is  held  up,  will  show  the  state  it  has  reached. 

Never  use  tin,  iron,  or  pewter  spoons  or  skimmers  for  pre- 
serves, as  they  will  convert  the  color  of  red  fruit  into  a  dingy 
purple,  and  impart,  besides,  a  very  unpleasant  flavor. 

When  cheap  jams  or  jellies  are  required,  make  them  at  once 
with  loaf  sugar,  but  use  that  which  is  well  refined  always,  for 
preserves  in  general ;  it  is  a  false  economy  to  purchase  an  in- 
ferior kind,  as  there  is  great  waste  from  it  in  the  quantity  of 
-scum  which  it  throws  up. 

Pans  of  copper  or  bell-metal  are  the  proper  utensils  for  pre- 
serving fruit:  when  used,  they  must  be  scoured  bright  with  sand. 
Tinned  pans  turn  and  destroy  the  color  of  the  fruit  that  is  put 
into  them.  Stew-pans  are  also  made  of  iron,  glazed  inside,  which 
is  very  nice  for  preserving. 


56 

HOW  TO  PICKLE  AXD  PRESERVE. 


In  clarifying  sugar  take  the  finest  kind,  break  it  into  large 
lumps,  and  put  it  into  a  preserving-pan.  If  for  syrup,  add  a  pint 
of  cold  water  to  each  pound;  jf  for  candying,  a  couple  of  wine- 
glassfuls  to  the  pound  will  be  sufficient.  Beat  the  white  of  an 
egg,  add  it  to  the  water,  mix  it  well,  and  pour  it  over  the  sugar; 
one  egg  is  enough  for  twelve  pounds  of  sugar  if  it  is  fine,  or  two 
if  it  is  coarse.  When  the  sugar  is  nearly  melted,  stir  it  well,  and 
put  it  over  a  gentle  fire ;  do  not  stir  it  after  the  scum  begins  to 
rise ;  let  it  boil  five  minutes,  then  take  it  off  the  fire,  let  it  stand  a 
minute  or  two,  then  take  the  scum  carefully  off;  put  the  pan 
again  on  the  fire,  and  when  the  syrup  begins  to  boil  throw  in  a 
little  cold  water,  which  should  be  kept  back  for  the  purpose;  boil 
till  the  scum  rises,  draw  it  off  from  the  fire,  and  skim  it  as  before ; 
repeat  this  till  quite  clear;  it  is  then  fit  for  use.  It  is  by  long 
boiling  that  the  differ  ent  degrees  are  acquired,  which  the  confec- 
tioner requires. 

A  simple  method  of  candying  fruit  is  to  lay  some  fruits  from 
syrup  into  a  clean  sieve;  to  dip  it  quickly  into  hot  water,  and 
then  put  the  fruit  into  a  fine  cloth  to  drain;  sift  over  it  refined 
sugar,  and  dry  on  sieves  in  a  moderate  oven. 

A  little  powdered  alum  dissolved  in  water,  and  put  into  the 
syrup  of  preserves,  with  a  full  quantity  of  sugar,  will  sometimes 
prevent  their  candying. 

The  only  secret  of  storing  preserves  is  to  exclude  the  air  from 
them,  and  to  set  them  in  a  drj'  place,  not  placing  the  pots  on  each 
other. 

If  preserves  seem  slightly  damp,  and  unlikely  to  keep  well,  to 
save  the  waste  of  second  boiling,  remove  the  papers,  and  put  the 
jars  in  a  cool  oven  (after  a  batch  of  bread  is  drawn  is  as  good  a 
time  as  any),  and  let  them  remain  until  the  preserves  get  thorough- 
ly heated.  When  cold,  cover  them  as  before.  Writing-paper, 
saturated  with  good  olive  oil,  is  better  than  steeping  it  in  brandy 
to  cover  the  tops  of  the  preserves.  Tie  pieces  of  bladder  or  paper 
over  this. 

Fruit  jellies  may  be  preserved  from  mouldiness  by  covering  the 
surface  one-fourth  of  an  inch  deep  with  finely  pulverized  loaf 
sugar.  Thus  protected,  they  will  keep  in  good  condition  for 
years. 

All  fruits  for  preserving  should  be  gathered  in  dry  weather ;  but, 
as  this  is  not  alwajrs  practicable,  much  inconvenience  may  be 
obviated  by  boiling  the  fruits  for  jellies  and  jams  long  before  the 
sugar  is  added.  By  so  doing,  the  watery  particles  will  evaporate, 
and  the  preserve  will  be  better  flavored  by  the  sugar  not  being  too 
long  on  the  fire. 

JAMS  AND  PRESERVES. 

RASPBERRY  JAM. 

Take  equal  weights  of  fruit  and  moist  sugar:  put  them  on  the 
tire  together;  keep  stirring  and  breaking  the  fruit  till  the  sugar 
melts,  then  boil  till  it  will  jelly  on  a  plate. 

Though  simple,  this  will  be  found  a  very  good  receipt. 


57 

HOW  TO  PICKLE  AND  PRESERVE. 


Another  Way. — Take  equal  weights  of  fruit  and  roughly- 
pounded  loaf  sugar;  bruise  the  fruit  with  the  back  of  a  spoon,  and 
boil  them  together  for  half  an  hour;  if  a  little  more  juice  is 
wanted,  add  the  juice  of  currants  drawn  as  for  jelly. 

STRAWBERRY  JAM. 

Allow  equal  weights  of  pounded  loaf  sugar  and  of  strawberries ; 
mash  them  in  the  preserving-pan,  and  mix  the  sugar  well  with  it ; 
stir,  scum,  and  boil  it  for  twenty  minutes. 

BLACK    CURRANT  JAM. 

Allow  equal  weights  of  clipped  currants  and  of  pounded  loaf 
sugar;  bruise  and  mash  the  fruit  in  a  preserving-pan  over  the 
fire;  add  the  sugar;  stir  it  frequently;  when  it  boils,  skim,  and 
let  it  boil  for  ten  minutes. 

WHITE  OR  RED  CURRANT  JAM. 

Pick  the  fruit  very  nicely,  and  allow  an  equal  quantity  of  fine- 
ly-pounded loaf  sugar;  put  a  layer  of  each  alternately  into  a  pre- 
serving-pan, and  boil  for  ten  minutes;  or  they  may  be  boiled  the 
same  length  of  time  in  sugar  previously  clarified  and  boiled  candy 
high. 

GRAPE    JAM. 

The  grapes  ought  not  to  be  very  ripe.  They  should  be  carefully 
picked,  and  all  that  are  at  all  injured  should  be  rejected.     To  one 

Eound  of  grapes  add  a  half  pound  of  sugar ;  no  water  but  what 
angs  about  them  after  they  have  been  washed.  Put  the  grapes 
into  a  cooking-pan,  then  a  layer  of  sugar,  then  a  layer  of  grapes. 
Boil  on  a  moderate  fire,  stirring  it  all  the  time,  to  prevent  its 
burning. 

CHERRY  JAM. 

Stone  four  pounds  of  cherries,  and  put  them  in  a  preserving-pan 
with  two  pounds  of  fine  white  sugar  and  a  pint  of  red  currant 
juice.  Boil  the  whole  together  rather  fast,  until  it  stiffens,  and 
then  put  it  into  pots  for  use. 

GOOSEBERRY   JAM. 

Stalk  and  crop  six  pounds  of  the  small,  red,  rough  gooseberry, 

Eut  them  into  a  preserving-pan,  and,  as  they  warm,  stir  and 
ruise  them  to  brmg  out  the  juice.  Let  them  boil  for  ten  min- 
utes, then  add  four  pounds  of  sugar,  and  place  it  on  the  fire 
again:  let  it  boil,  and  continue  boiling  for  two  hours  longer,  stir- 
ring it  all  the  time  to  prevent  its  burning.  When  it  thickens,  and 
will  jelly  upon  a  plate,  it  is  clone  enough.  Put  it  into  pots,  and 
allow  it  to  remain  a  day  before  it  is  covered. 

BLACKBERRY  JAM. 

In  families  where  there  are  many  children  there  is  no  prepara- 
tion of  fruit  so  wholesome,  so  cheap,  and  so  much  admired,  as 
this  homely  conserve.  The  fruit  should  be  clean  picked  in  dry 
weather,  and  to  every  pound  of  berries  put  a  half  pound  of  coarse 
brewn  sugar;  boil  the  whole  together  for  three-quarters  of  an 
hour  or  an  hour,  stirring  it  well  the  whole  time.     Put  it  in  pots 


53 

HOW  TO  PICKLE  AM)  PRESERVE. 


like  any  other  preserve,  and  it  will  be  found  most  useful  in  fami- 
lies: it  is  medicinal  for  children. 

PINE-APPLE  JAM. 

Pare*and  weigh  the  pine-apples,  and  grate  them  down  on  a  large 
grater.  To  one  pound  of  fruit  put  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of 
powdered  sugar ;  put  it  over  the  fire,  and  Avhen  it  comes  to  a  boil 
ttir  till  done.  Boil  it  half  an  hour  or  more  till  clear;  put  it  in 
jars,  and  cover  it  carefully. 

PINE-APPLES. 

Take  off  the  top  and  bottom  of  the  pine,  and  pare  the  outside ; 
put  a  pint  of  water,  two  pounds  of  loaf-sugar,  one  lemon  (cut  in 
slices),  and  the  peeling  of  the  pine,  together,  into  a  well-tinned 
saucepan ;  then  boil  them  for  about  five  minutes.  Now  strain  the 
syrup,  then  cut  up  the  pine-apple  into  thin  slices,  and  put  them 
with  the  strained  syrup  into  the  saucepan.  The  pine  is  now  to  be 
boiled  till  it  is  easily  pricked  with  a  sharp  wooden  skewer.  The 
preserve  is  then  fit  for  keeping  in  jars  "as  long  as  one  can."  The 
number  of  pines  to  a  pint  of  syrup  depends,  of  course,  on  their 


Cut  the  rhubarb  as  for  tarts,  and  to  every  quart  give  one  pound 
of  good  moist  sugar.  Put  the  sugar  over  the  rhubarb,  and  leave 
it  twenty -four  hours  to  draw  out  the  juice.  The  sugar  sinks,  but 
is  not  dissolved.  Boil  the  juice  and  sugar  together  for  twenty 
minutes  after  it  begins  to  boil  just  at  the  edge  of  the  pan;  then 
add  the  rhubarb,  and  boil  slowly  twenty  minutes  longer.  There 
is  no  need  to  stir  the  syrup  or  preserve,  if  slowly  boiled.  The 
rhubarb  and  sugar  do  not  require  a  warm  place  to  draw  out  the 
juice.  By  this  method  the  pieces  of  rhubarb  remain  separate  from 
each  other  when  the  preserve  is  done.  It  keeps  good  a  year,  if 
kept  in  jars  well  dried,  and  in  a  dry  place. 

Or,  procure  six  oranges,  peel  them,  and  take  away  the  white 
rind  and  the  kernels ;  then  slice  the  pulp  into  the  stewpan,  along 
with  the  peel  cut  very  small ;  add  thereto  one  quart  of  rhubarb 
cut  fine,  and  from  one  pound  to  one  pound  and  a  half  of  loaf 
sugar.  Boil  the  whole  down  in  the  usual  way,  as  for  other  pre- 
serves. Made  in  this  manner  it  will  be  found  almost  equal  to 
Scotch  marmalade. 

STRAWBERRIES  OR  RASPBERRIES,   FOR  CREAMS  OR  ICES,   WITHOUT 
BOILING. 

Let  the  fruit  be  gathered  in  the  middle  of  a  warm  day,  in  very 
dry  weather ;  strip  it  from  the  stalks  directly,  weigh  it,  turn  it 
into  a  bowl  or  deep  pan,  and  bruise  it  gently ;  mix  with  an  equal 
weight  of  fine,  dry,  sifted  sugar,  and  put  it  immediately  into 
small,  wide-necked  bottles;  cork  these  firmly  without  delay,  and 
tie  a  bladder  over  the  tops.  Keep  them  in  a  cool  place,  or  the  fruit 
will  ferment.  The  mixture  should  be  stirred  softly,  and  only  just 
sufficiently  to  blend  the  sugar  and  the  fruit.  The  bottles  must  be 
perfectly  dry,  and  the  bladders,  after  having  been  cleaned  in  the 


59 

HOW  TO  PICKLE  AND  PRESERVE. 


usual  way,  and  allowed  to  become  nearly  so,  should  be  moistened 
with  a  little  spirit  on  the  side  which  is  to  be  next  to  the  cork. 

STRAWBERRIES. 

To  two  pounds  of  fine  large  strawberries  add  two  pounds  of 

gowdered  sugar,  and  put  them  in  a  preserving-kettle,  over  a  slow 
re,  till  the  sugar  is  melted ;  then  boil  them  precisely  twenty  min- 
utes, as  fast  as  possible;  have  ready  a  number  of  small  jars,  and 
put  the  fruit  in  boiling  hot.  Cork  and  seal  the  jars  immediately, 
and  keep  them  through  the  summer  in  a  cold,  dry  cellar.  The 
jars  must  be  heated  before  the  hot  fruit  is  poured"  in,  otherwise 
they  will  break. 

RASPBERRIES,    WHOLE. 

Take  five  quarts  of  raspberries,  and  cull  from  them  about  three 
pints  of  the  largest  and  firmest,  and  set  them  aside ;  put  the  re- 
mainder in  the  preserving  pan,  and  put  them  on  the  fire  to  extract 
the  juice.  When  they  are  boiled  enough  let  them  cool,  and  then 
strain  them  through  a  cloth.  While  thejT  are  cooling  boil  up  the 
sugar  in  the  proportion  of  one  pound  to  one  quart  of  the  fruit; 
and  A-hen  you  have  removed  the  scum,  and  it  is  a  good  syrup, 
throw  in  your  whole  raspberries;  let  them  boil  rapidly  a  few  min- 
utes, but  be  careful  they  do  not  fall  to  pieces  or  become  ragged. 
Take  them  out  with  a  skimmer  f  idl  of  holes,  and  spread  them  over 
a  large  dish  to  cool;  then  throw  into  the  syrup  the  juice  of  those 
you  have  previously  boiled,  and  let  it  boil  till  it  is  nearly  a  jelly; 
throw  in  again  the  whole  fruit,  and  give  it  a  smart  boil;  then  put 
it  in  your  jars  hot,  and  do  not  cover  them  till  cold. 

DAMSONS. 

To  every  pound  of  damsons  allow  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of 
powdered  sugar;  put  into  jars  of  well-gmzed  earthen  pots,  alter- 
nately a  layer  of  damsons  and  one  of  sugar;  tie  strong  paper  or 
cloth  over  the  pots,  and  set  them  in  the  oven  after  the  bread  is 
drawn,  and  let  them  stand  till  the  oven  is  cold.  The  next  day 
strain  off  the  syrup,  and  boil  it  till  thick ;  when  it  is  cold,  put  the 
damsons  into  small  jars  or  glasses,  pour  over  the  syrup,  which 
should  cover  them,  and  tie  a  wet  bladder  or  strong  cloth  over 
them. 

GREENGAGES  IN  SYRUP. 

Those  should  be  chosen  which  are  not  quite  ripe.  Let  them  be 
sound,  and  as  fresh-gathered  as  possible.  Prick  them  several 
times  to  the  stone  with  a  fork  or  needle,  and  throw  them  into  a 
pan  of  cold  water  as  they  are  done.  Put  them  into  a  preserving- 
pan,  and  let  them  heat  gradually  until  the  water  is  scalding  hot; 
keep  them  at  this  heat  for  an  hour  or  two;  then  take  them  off, 
and  cover  them  with  vine  or  cabbage  leaves,  and  let  them  get 
cold  in  the  vvater  they  were  scalded  in.  Heat  them  again  in 
the  same  water  as  before;  when  they  are  of  a  nice  green,  let 
them  have  one  or  two  boils,  take  them  out,  and  put  them  into 
cold  water;  drain  them  from  this,  and  pour  a  thin  syrup, 
made  with  a  pound  and  a  half  of  sugar  to  a  pint  of  water, 
over  them,  boiling  hot.  Have  sufficient  to  cover  them,  and 
let  them  remain  iix  it  for   two  or  three  days.    Drain  off   the 


60 

HOW  TO  PICKLE  AND  PRESERVE. 


syrup  into  a  preserving-pan;  add  half  a  pound  more  sugar  to 
each  pint  of  water  that  was  used ;  boil,  scum,  and  pour  it  boiling 
hot  over  the  fruit.  After  three  or  four  days,  or  a  week,  pour  off 
the  syrup,  and  boil  it  again,  adding  a  little  more  sugar  to  make  it 
of  a  consistence  to  draw  into  rather  a  strong  thread  between  the 
finger  and  thumb,  which  will  be  when  nearly  three  pounds  of 
sugar  have  been  used  to  the  pint.  Pour  this  over  them  boiling 
hot;  cover  them  over  when  cold,  and  put  them  away  for  use. 
Keep  in  a  cool,  dry  place.  They  may  be  greened  by  allowing 
them  to  remain  covered  with  leaves  in  the  water  they  were  first 
scalded  in  for  three  or  four  days,  or  until  it  is  quite  sour;  then 
taken  out,  drained  dry,  f-nd  heated  in  the  first  syrup. 

Magnum  bonum,  mussel,  and  other  plums,  when  green,  should 
be  preserved  as  these. 

GOOSEBERRIES. 

Take  the  rough-skinned  fruit  when  quite  dry,  with  rather  more 
than  their  weight  of  sugar  pounded  fine;  lay  a  layer  of  fruit  and 
a  layer  of  sugar,  till  all  are  in  the  pan ;  add  a  teaspoonf ul  of 
water,  and  boil  the  fruit  quickly  until  it  is  clear ;  take  it  out,  and 
put  it  into  jars;  boil  up  the  syrup  until  it  is  thick,  then  pour  it 
over  the  fruit.    When  cold,  cover  it  closely. 

PEACHES,   WHOLE    (AN  ECONOMICAL  WAY). 

To  fifteen  pounds  of  cling-stone  peaches  take  seven  and  a  half 
pounds  of  loaf  sugar;  put  two  or  three  quarts  of  water  in  the  ket- 
tle with  one  teaspoonful  of  pear  lash,  to  destroy  the  skins  of  the 
fruit.  When  the  water  is  hot,  throw  in  a  few  peaches,  and  let 
them  remain  a  few  minutes ;  take  them  out,  and  wipe  off  the  skins 
with  a  coarse  towel,  and  thet?  throw  them  into  cold  water.  Take 
half  the  sugar,  with  as  little  water  as  possible  to  dissolve  it;  then 
put  in  a  layer  of  peaches,  and  let  them  boil  from  twenty  to  thirty 
minutes.  Take  them  out  on  a  flat  dish  to  cool.  After  two  or  three 
layers  have  been  boiled  in  this  way  the  syrup  will  increase ;  by 
degrees  add  the  rest  of  the  sugar.  When  all  are  done,  boil  the 
syrup  until  it  becomes  a  little  thick;  then  add,  while  in  the  kettle, 
half  a  pint  of  alcohol,  which  will  cool  and  thicken  it  sufficiently 
to  put  on  the  peaches,  which  should  be  ready  in  your  jars;  do  not 
cover  them  until  the  next  day.  They  will  not  have  the  least  taste 
of  the  alcohol,  and  are  a  very  fine  preserve. 

PEACHES. 

The  clear-stone  yellow  peaches,  white  at  the  stone,  are  the  best. 
Weigh  the  fruit  after  it  is  pared.  To  each  pound  of  fruit  allow  a 
pound  of  loaf  sugar.  Put  a  layer  of  sugar  at  the  bottom  of  the 
preserving-kettle,  and  then  a  layer  of  fruit;  and  so  on,  un- 
til the  fruit  is  all  in;  stand  it  over  hot  ashes  until  the  sugar 
is  entirely  dissolved;  then  boil  them  until  they  are  clear; 
take  them  out  piece  by  piece,  and  spread  them  on  a  dish  free  from 
syrup.  Boil  the  syrup  in  the  pan  until  it  jellies.  When  the 
peaches  are  cold  fill  the  jars  half  full  with  them,  and  fill  up  with 
the  boiling  syrup.  Let  them  stand  a  short  time  covered  with  a 
thin  cloth ;  then  put  on  brandy-paper,  and  cover  them  close  with 


HOW  TO  FICKLE  AND  PRESERVE. 


corks,  skin,  or  paper.     From  twenty  to  thirty  minutes  will  gen- 
erally be  sufficient  to  preserve  them. 

BRANDY   PEACHES. 

To  six  pounds  of  the   fruit,   peeled,   put  three  pounds  of  loaf 
sugar  and  three  pints  of  white  French  brandy.     Put  them  in  a  jar 
tightly  corked,  and  boil  till  soft  in  a  kettle  of  hot  water.     The 
water  should  reach  to  the  top,  but  not  over  the  top  of  the  jar. 
QUINCES. 

Peel  the  quinces,  and  clear  the  cores  out  well,  saving  all  the 
seeds.  Wash  the  peelings  well,  and  put  them  on  to  boil ;  let  them 
boil  until  the  water  partakes  strongly  of  the  flavor  of  the  quinces; 
put  the  seeds  in  a  linen  bag,  and  boil  them  with  the  parings.  Put 
the  quinces  in  a  separate  pan,  and  let  them  boil  until  almost  ten- 
der. Strain  all  the  quince  water;  put  one  pint  of  the  water  to 
each  pound  of  fruit  and  sugar;  boil  the  quinces  until  they  are 
quite  clear;  then  put  them  on  dishes  cleared  from  the  syrup.'  Boil 
the  syrup  till  it  jellies  with  the  bag  of  seeds,  from  which  the  sub- 
stance should  be  pressed  in  the  jelly. 

It  is  well  to  add  two  or  three  pints  of  quince  water,  and  two  or 
three  pounds  of  sugar  more  than  is  required  for  the  fruit,  for 
floating  islands,  etc. 

GREEN  GINGER. 

For  two  weeks  put  the  ginger  every  night  and  morning  in  fresh 
boiling  water.  Take  off  the  outside  skin  with  a  sharp  knife;  boil 
it  in  water  till  it  is  quite  tender,  and  slice  it  thin;  prepares  syrup 
of  one  pound  of  sugar  to  half  a  pint  of  water,  clarify  it,  and  then, 
put  the  ginger  into  it.     Boil  it  until  it  is  clear. 

APPLES,    WHOLE. 

Make  a  syrup  of  loaf  sugar,  allowing  a  pound  of  pleasant  sour 
apples  to  a  pound  of  sugar.  Be  very  particular  in  skimming  it 
until  it  is  quite  clear.  The  apjjles  should  be  pared  very  nicely, 
and  their  cores  extracted,  with  an  instrument  made  for  the  pur- 
pose, before  they  are  weighed.  Boil  the  apples  in  as  much  water 
as  will  cover  them  until  they  become  soft;  but  take  care  that 
they  do  not  commence  to  break.  Those  that  cook  first  should  be 
removed  on  a  strainer  until  they  are  all  tender.  Squeeze  the  juice 
of  one  large  lemon  for  every  pound  of  loaf  sugar.  Pare  off  the 
lemon-peel,  if  possible,  without  breaking  it;  boil  the  juice  and  the 
peel  in  the  same  water  that  has  boiled  the  apples;  pour  in  the 
syrup  as  soon  as  the  lemon-peel  is  tender,  and  boil  it  ten  minutes, 
or  till  it  is  a  strong  syrup.  The  apples  which  have  been  cooling 
on  a  dish  should  then  be  gently  put  in  jars,  and  the  hot  syrup 
poured  on  them.  Tie  up  the  jars,  and  do  not  open  them  for  a 
fortnight. 

CRAB  APPLES. 

IVfa'ce  a  syrup,  allowing  the  same  weight  of  sugar  as  apples. 
Let  it  cool,  then  put  in  the  apples,  a  few  at  once,  so  that  they  will 
not  crowd  and  break  to  pieces.  Boil  them  till  they  begin  to  break; 
then  take  them  out  of  the  kettle.  Boil  the  syrup  in  the  course  of 
ikree  or  four  days,  and  turn  it  while  hot  on  "to  the  apples.     This 


JIOW  TO  PICKLE  AND  PRESERVE. 

continue  to  do  at  intervals  of  two  or  three  days,  till  the  apples 
appear  to  be  thoroughly  preserved. 

PEARS. 

Pare  them  very  thin,  and  simmer  in  a  thin  syrup;  let  them  lie 
a  day  or  two.  Make  the  syrup  richer,  and  simmer  again,  and  re- 
peat this  till  they  are  clear;  then  drain,  and  dry  them  in  the  sun 
or  a  cool  oven  a  very  little  time.  They  may  be  kept  in  syrup,  and 
dried  as  wanted,  which  makes  them  more  moist  and  rich. 

PUMPKINS. 

Choose  a  thick  yellow  pumpkin  which  is  sweet;  pare,  take  out 
the  seeds,  and  cut  the  thick  part  into  any  form  you  choose — round, 
square,  egg-shaped,  stars,  wheels,  &c. ;  weigh  it;  put  it  into  a 
stone  jar  or  deep  dish,  and  pk,ce  it  in  a  pot  of  water  to  boil,  till 
the  pumpkin  is  so  soft  that  you  can  pass  a  fork  through  it.  The 
pot  may  be  kept  uncovered;  and  be  sure  that  no  water  boils  into 
the  jar.  Take  the  weight  of  the  pumpkin  in  good  loaf  sugar, 
clarify  it,  and  boil  the  syrup  witli  the  juice  of  one  lemon  to  every 
pound  of  sugar,  and  the  peel  cut  in  little  squares.  When  the 
pumpkin  is  soft,  put  it  into  the  syrup,  and  let  it  simmer  gently 
about  an  hour,  or  till  the  liquor  is  thick  and  rich;  then  let  it 
cool,  and  put  it  in  glass  jars,  well  secured  from  the  air.  It  makes 
a  very  rich  sweetmeat. 

LEMON. 

An  excellent  substitute  for  jam  may  be  made  as  follows: — 
One  pound  of  powdered  loaf  sugar,  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of 
fresh  butter,  six  eggs,  leaving  out  the  whites  of  two  of  them; 
the  juice  and  rind  of  three  fine  lemons.  Put  the  ingredients 
into  a  saucepan,  and  stir  the  whole  gently  over  a  slow  fire 
until  it  becomes  as  thick  as  honey.  Put  it  into  small  jars,  and 
keep  it  in  a  cool,  dry  place. 

ORANGES  AND  LEMONS  WHOLE. 

Make  a  syrup  of  three  pounds  of  sugar-candy  in  one  quart  of 
water;  put  good  and  sound  oi'anges  in  this,  and  then  boil  very 
slowly  till  the  liquid  is  reduced  to  one-half.  Lemons  may  be 
treated  in  the  same  way.  When  fold  and  put  away  in  jars,  stir 
in  a  wineglassful  of  rum  for  every  pint  made.  N.  B. — They  will 
not  "  keep  "  long,  unless  under  lock  and  key. 

SIBERIAN   CRABS. 

Prick  each  apple  two  or  three  times  with  a  fork,  and  throw 
them  into  a  pan  of  water.  Simmer  them  either  in  water  or  a  very 
weak  syrup  made  with  a  pound  of  sugar  to  a  pint  and  a  half  of 
water.  When  the  skins  begin  to  crack,  take  them  from  the  fire, 
strain  the  s>rrup  or  water  from  them,  and  put  them  into  jars. 
Cover  them  with  a  weak  syrup  whilst  boiling  hot,  made  with  a 
pound  and  a  half  of  sugar,  with  a  pint  of  water.  In  three  or  four 
days  pour  off  the  syrup,  boil  it  again  with  six  or  eight  ounces 
more  sugar  to  each  pint  of  water  usedv  and  pour  over  whilst  boil- 
ing. Repeat  this  three  times,  and  put  them  aside  for  use.  Ex- 
amine them  in  about  three  or  four  weeks,  and  if  there  is  the  least 
indication  of  fermentation  pour  off  the  syrup;  boil  it  as  before 


HOW  TO  PICKLE  AND  PRESERVE. 


with  more  sugar ;  take  off  any  scum ;  give  the  apples  a  boil  in  the 
syrup ;  fill  the  jars,  and  tie  them  over  with  paper  or  bladder  when 
cold. 

SUMMER  FRUITS. 

Such  fruits  as  strawberries,  raspberries,  blackberries,  and  the 
like,  may  be  preserved  in  the  following  manner  cheaply,  and 
their  flavor  be  retained :— Put  sugar  over  the  fire,  at  the  rate  of 
half  a  pound  to  a  pound  of  berries,  add  a  little  water,  and  when 
hot  take  up  the  fruit  in  a  skimmer  and  dip  it  into  the  sugar,  hold- 
ing it  there  for  half  a  minute  perhaps ;  then  take  it  out  and  spread 
it  on  the  tins.  Go  through  the  whole  lot  in  this  manner.  Then 
boil  down  the  sugar  to  a  thick  syrup,  and  pour  it  over  the  fruit. 
Set  the  tins  either  in  the  sun  or  in  a  warm  oven  till  the  berries 
are  dried  through  in  thin  gelatinous  cakes.  When  thoroughly 
dry  put  the  cakes  in  a  bag  and  hang  it  out  of  the  way.  The  cakes 
will  keep  as  long  as  wanted,  and  may  be  used  in  a  few  minutes  by 
the  addition  of  a  little  hot  water— more  sugar  being  added  if  nee 
essary.  The  beauty  of  this  mode  is  that  the  flavor  of  the  fruit  is 
retained,  while  there  is  no  danger  of  its  spoiling  by  fermentation. 
Fruits,  when  preserved  in  the  usual  way— pound  for  pound— are 
made  too  sweet,  and  lose  their  distinctive  flavor  so  much  that  it 
differs  little  whether  it  is  preserved  peach  or  potato.  Besides, 
without  care,  preserves  are  apt  to  ferment  and  spoil. 


BOTTLED  FRUIT. 

FOR  TARTS,  WITHOUT  SUGAR. 

Take  wide-mouthed  glass,  or,  if  possible,  stone  bottles;  fill  them, 
by  shaking,  or  even,  if  you  like,  by  pressing  them  with  a  round 
stick  like  a  ruler.  Then  cork  them  tight  with  the  best  corks  (for 
good  corking  is  more  than  half  the  battle),  using  good  deep  chives 
as  they  are  called;  wire  down  the  cork  strongly,  and  insert  a 
small  slip  of  wood  between  the  wire  and  cork.  Place  the  bottles 
upright  in  a  boiler  filled  with  cold  water,  up  to  their  neck;  heat 
the  water  until  it  boils;  keep  it  boiling  ten  minutes,  and  then 
withdraw  the  fire,  or  move  the  boiler  off  it.  When  the  water 
is  cool,  take  out  the  bottles,  and  they  will  keep  for  years.  They 
may  be  rosined;  but  with  good  corks  it  is  needless,  and  is  after- 
wards troublesome. 

CHERRIES,  ETC. 

Take  the  common  red  cherries,  and  remove  the  stones.  Put 
them  in  wide-mouthed,  light  glass  bottles.  Then  set  the  bottles 
in  a  boiler  of  cold  water,  within  an  inch  or  so  of  the  neck. 
Let  them  boil  from  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes.  Put  the  corks 
in  the  bottles  as  tightly  as  possible  while  the  water  is  boiling. 
Then  take  out  the  bottles,  tighten  the  corks,  and  seal  them 
with  a  wax  made  of  equal  quantities  of  rosin  and  beeswax. 
This  method  has  proved  quite  satisfactory.  The  rationale  of 
the  process  will  be  readily  perceived.  The  heat  coagulates  the 
albumen  of  the  fruit,  and  arrests  all  change  which  may  have 
taken  place  by  the  absorption  of  oxygen,  and  at  the  same  time 


HOW  TO  PICKLE  AND  PRESERVE. 


expels  the  air  from  the  bottles.  The  corks,  being  put  in  while 
the  bottles  are  filled  with  steam,  and  quickly  tightened  and 
sealed,  effectually  exclude  the  air,  and  with  it  all  exciting 
cause  of  fermentation.  The  reason  why  the  bottles  are  placed  in 
cold  water  is  to  prevent  them  from  breaking.  If  tin  cans  are 
used  there  will  be  no  need  of  this  precaution.  Sometimes,  too, 
the  bottles  break  after  being  taken  out  of  the  water,  and  it  is 
advisable  to  wrap  a  cloth  round  them  for  a  few  minutes. 

GREEN  GOOSEBERRIES  AND  CURRANTS. 

Green  gooseberries  and  currants  may  be  preserved  in  the  same 
way,  except  that  they  do  not  need  so  much  boiling.  If  the  bot- 
tles are  heated  sufficiently  to  drive  out  most  of  the  air  by  expan- 
sion, and  carefully  corked  and  sealed  while  hot,  nothing  more 
will  be  required.  In  fact,  they  are  sometimes  kept  b}'  simply 
putting  them  in  tightly-sealed  bottles  without  any  boiling.  In 
this  case  the  gooseberries,  not  being  ripe,  absorb  the  ox3rgen 
from  the  small  quantity  of  air  in  the  bottles,  without  injury. 
If  the  bottles,  after  being  sealed,  are  placed  in  hot  water  for' a 
few  minutes,  this  absorption  of  oxygen  takes  place  much  more 
rapidly  with  the  formation  of  carbonic  acid.  Unless  the  fruit 
is  quite  green  the  former  method  is  undoubtedly  the  best. 

Green  gooseberries  are  frequently  preserved  by  placing  them, 
when  dry,  in  a  stone  ;jar  or  other  vessel,  and  burying  it  in  the 
soil,  below  the  reach  of  frost. 

DAMSONS. 

For   tills  purpose  they  should    be    gathered    before    they  are 

Suite  ripe,  on  a  dry  day,"    and  after  the  dew    is  dried  off  them, 
lottle  them  as  soon  as'  possible  after  they  are  gathered,  and  let 
the  bottles  in  which  they  are  to  be  put  be  perfectly  dry. 

All  bruised  or  damaged  fruit  should  be  carefully  picked  out 
as  the  bottles  are  being  filled.  When  quite  full,  cork  them 
with  good  sound  corks,  such  as  are  made  for  the  purpose 
(not  bungs),  rather  slightly,  and  place  them  in  a  boiler  or  deep 
saucepan,  with  cold  water  to  reach  half  way  up  the  necks  of  the 
bottles.  Heat  the  water  gradually  to  the  boiling  point,  and  after 
being  kept  at  this  heat  for  two  or  three  minutes,  withdraw  the 
fire  and  let  them  cool  in  the  water.  When  quite  cold,  cork  close- 
ly, and  place  them  in  a  cool  dry  place  for  use.  When  preserved 
in  this  way  they  will  be  found  equal  to  fresh  fruit  for  pies,  pud- 
dings, tarts,  or  any  other  purpose  for  which  fresh  fruit  is  re- 
quired, and  will  keep  good  for  two  or  three  years.  Filling  the  bot- 
tles with  water  is  a  bad  practice,  as  it  deprives  the  fruit  of  much 
of  its  flavor,  and  does  not  contribute  anything  to  their  preser- 
vation. 


THE   FAVORITE   DIME   SONG  BOOkT 

Penn.  Tramn.  Kk  » :„,^  ..  .- ^ *»WJV, 


1  Downey's  Penn.  Tramp. 

2  .Miners  New  Theater. 

3  Harrigan  &  H.  Mul.  G'd  Pic. 
*  soanlan  A  C.  McCormick  the 

Copper. 

5  Frank  Bush's  Oh,  Moses! 

6  Murphy  &  Morton  Mary  Ann 
_   McLaughlin 

7  Derere's  Elevated  Railroad. 
?  &ar11.owBro  'I'lldesun  will  rise 
a  Williams  4  Sullivan's  Lack 

I, «  »    awanna  Spooners. 
10  Johnson  &  B.  tom-blg-bee-bav 
*     tz's  Cel'd  Minstrel 


TnKUoo  Shnutfir" 

LIBRARY  OF  CONGRESS 


ar's  Get  Thee  Gone, 


11  >'ne.  R 
|12  D^cksta 

13  Dailyriirps.'-K.  H.  K.-South 
,.  _.  Carolina  Cloe. 

14  Ch.  -j  Konollman's  Bound  for 

C^rmany. 
5  Be:  amid  £  M.  Kathleen  and 
Jileen 


0  014  480  169  6 


16  Kerneir.s'O'Quirk's  Sinecure 
'•.  Dutchyin  a  Fix 


17  Watson  &  E.  _ 

}«  H,'  Wo2dsors  Ooodfby'e  Lize. 

19  Clara  Moore's  Nancy  lee. 

20  hagan  4  Fenton's  Am.  Style 
oi  t  |ongand  Dance  Book. 

21  J.  B.  Kadcliffe's  Plantation. 
.?,  «rarrJgf  "»*  H'  MuL  °'d  Ba" 
il  ^  °£rd  £  £,  kiDp  music  rak'w 
24  H.  M.  S.  Pinafore. 

jio  Downey's  Peter  Napoleon 
L.  Campana.  -Old  Sport." 
26  J.  Roach's  That  kid  of  mine. 
ol  n°^y  pastor's  Electric  Light 
■28  Dodge's  Pretty  little  Tommy 
I     „   with  a  Squeak.  J 

29  Gross  4  F.  Huckleb'ry  picnic 

30  c.  P.  Hyland's  I  wish  they'd 
I  do  it  now. 

31  N.  Barry's  Here  she  goes  and 
'o.  rr  There  she  goes. 
«£e,,y„*  R  "ibernian  Ballet. 
.33  Tim  Rogers' The  Villian  Still 
'o.  „  Pur*ued  her. 

34  Murphy  &  Morton's  Klty  Ann 
I  O'Brien. 

35  Foley  &  Sheffer's  Oh.  Oh.  I'll 
I  meet  You. 

7  J*  *?•  Gibbon's  Remember  that 
L.    the  Boy  today. etc. 
SS  «am  Pevere's  Oh.  Marial 
^  Harrigan  4  H.  Little  Green 
Leaf  in  Our  Bible 


6tJ  Hawkin'sA 
Ditcher ; 

57  Oh!  Dem  ( 

58  J.  Roach's 
„„     Chicago. 

59  Mulvey  4  I 

60  Harrigan  , 
m       Christm 

61  Watson  &  1 
-  Splendk 

62  Campbell , 
M.   Working 

63  Barry's  gr 

64  Ireland's  h 

Landlord  must  go. 

65  ^J1??*?  £rom  my  Angel 

_  Mother's  Grave. 

66  Jubilee  Camp-Meeting, 

67  Dockstader's  T.Shovel 

68  Flora  Moore's  from  Ireland. 

69  Sheehan  *  j,  Mrs.  Driscoll's 

Party. 

70  L.  Grant's  tired  of  single  life 

71  Harrigan  4  H.  pitch'r  of  beer 

72  Bushs  pesockthepawnbr'k'r 

73  Arnold's  Billy's  Request. 

™  »Tb?a,rnu~m's  Grea*  Clown.  14n  ooup's  Monster  olown 
7$ c'rSftl female  Celebrities  uY SrSfio's  Rapid  T?S' 
If.  GreatAm.  song*  dance  book  142  Nash's  Barney  the  Guide 
SSfenaitMrflSf.Frep,?Ch/latr   JS  Weston  Bros"  Conundrum 

BJJJ.  Sands'  Irish  Jig,  Clog  and 
Dance  Book. 


Silver  Wedding. 

129  Diamond's  milanese  mi 

130  Pastor's  Are  you  going 

131  Bennett  4  G.  Funnv  cap 

132  F.  Bush's  Moses  in  irelar 
33  Rush's  trip  to  Coney  Islai 
«£°puJar  °Pera  Songster. 

135  Woodson  4  Allen's  carry  r 
io*nrback  to  old  Virginia. 
'^•Metropolitan  Favorites.! 
\il  y  ohnny  isyour  father w'rt 
138Cronin  4  S  ~ 


83  Amer.  Four  Phoebe  Walker. 

84  Richmonds  little  10  day  bum 

85  Remington's  Delia  Clancy. 
8b  Hiiies  4  B  Dinah's  Seren'de 

87  Johnson  4  C.  Sunset  in  the 

South. 

88  Dayton's  Old  Age  vs.  Youth. 

o£  $!}KB&rryS  Suc,get  of  Fun 
90  The  Emerald  Four. 
21,  Sh^ff?r  *  S- Kick  me  Again 
U  Kaiicl™sEle,ctric  »'ver  pad 

93  J   W.  Gibbons' The  Tramp. 

94  Burgess'  In  the  morning  bi 

the*   Ki>i/Thf  11*. I..  J 


Vi  ?C,-.te€;mbl.e,ms  of  Ireland 
I  "o  Swim  g  l  lear,1'd 
iff  ^ymer's  Grotesque  Clown. 

43  £  Rooney  my  daughter  Julia. 

44  Kearney  A  Power  Versatile 
|  Comedian. 

45  Bush's  Patent  Jew  from  New 

Jeruslum. 
46Ackland  von  Boyles  Pig-tail'd 

Chinaman. 
1  !!ar,^'an  *  H  Mul.  G'd  Ch'd 

48  Delehanty  &  H.  Sally  Mckn'y 

49  Haverley's  Genuine  Colored 
*nir   ^"fKia  Minstrels. 
50Konol lmon's  German  Fun  at 

Union  Hill.  w  "* 

SoVfur'8  5un,,y  °ld  Couple. 
m  01,dJVooden  docker. 

Ha°  hn'S  d°n,t  f0rget  me 
^  ,M,'M1ch!st'r  4*  J'nni'gs  Ecc'ntric 
53LUUe  Rosebud's  I'm  little  but 

you  bet  that  I  can  Dance 


_  the  bright  light. 
95  Roach's  When  McGuinness 


gets  a  job. 


96  Hi  Henry's  premium  mil 

97  Hengler*snew Merry  mil 


nst'l 

'  imllSl'l 

98  Barlow,  Wilson,  Primrose  & 
__  West  New  Minstrel's. 

imSMP8£"i,,,iIriah  Tourists 

100  Fields  4  H  Music  Conquer^ 

101  Harrnran  Hart's  Mul.  Guard 
Picnic      Vol.  6. 

102  Rentz-Santley  Noveltv 

103  Charles  Davis'  Alvin  Joslin 

104  scotch  Lassie  Jean. 

105  Eldridg's  trunk  tullof  p'rod's 

106  Murpny  4  M.  Jonet.'  Wood. 

107  P.  Roonej  >s  when  I  take  the 
President's  Chair. 

108  Ferguson  4  M.  self-made  men 

109  La  well  4  Drew's  Muldoon's 
,,«  „  Boaruinc-House. 

110  C.  Konollman's  Lardvdar. 

111  Lester  4  Allen's  Ledger  of 
Oiignalities. 

112  Cradle's  enipiy.  baby'sgone. 

113  Patterson's  There  never  was 
a  coward,  4c. 

\}i  li*,",111'8  de  i?olden  wedding 
1  5  Field  in  g's  Tea  Party.  S 
116  Harrigan  4  H.  Mul.  Q'dNom 


iSrt£nium  and  London  Circu 
,:$  2rh.  Fred  tell  them  t0  sto 

W-Jge*  Serio-comic  Queei 

148  Pat  Rooney's Muldoon's ne\i 

Lister  Coat. 

149  Johnson  4  S.  we're  not  crazi 

but  insane. 

150  Mc  Avoy  4  R.  lore  in  a  lette 


151  psborn's  sit  Long  Branch. 
Al  ne°riard  *  J  telegraph  Lad 
!&Sr.-Hea,y»H«oernianiniiiV 

^t  ?^{ni,,et?8  ,atest  and  greates. 

55  Allen's  house  von  de  Rhine 

156  Campbell's  Strike  while  the 
Iron's  hot. 

157  Murphy  4  Mack  McCarthy 

Party.  * 

!^  gar,rigan  4  Hart's  the  major 
£9i  g^e  4  B  Muldoon's  Picnic 
}^  S,«rrif,,fe^od 'sOrousmyers 

161  O'Neil's  Gilhooly  your  coat 

is  half-mast. 

162  Roberts'  my  only  daughter 

Jane. 

163  American  Four  Hi  Jenny  Ho 

Jenny  Johnson. 

164  Jack  Conrov's  Tit-a-Ta 

165  Lewis'  A  Tribute  of  Grief  foi 

our  Nation's  Chief. 

166  Dutch  Me ndels' Bewildered 

Dutchmen. 
!6J2.tll?8\New  Orleans  minst'I. 
,M  Em'rs'n  4  Clark  not  thiseve 

ning,  Some  other  Evening 
—  Four  Eccentric. 

170  Fagan  4  Fox  Derby  Jockey. 

171  Hey  woods  Prima  Donna. 

172  Olympic  Quartette. 

173  flavin's  Baby's  got  a  cramp. 

174  Hengler's  Quite  to  utterly 
Litter. 


