rF 


M 


Zm^K 


Bn 


^ 


3" 


PRACTICAL  GASTRONOMY 


Cornet  of  Nougat,  with  Fruit, 


Toc^.  /S 


PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

ANti    CULINARY   DICTION ABY 

■WITH   WHICH  IS  rNCORPORATED 

'RECHERCHE    COOKERY" 

CONTAINIKa 

UP-TO-DATE  DESCRIPTIONS  OF  the  FOLLOWING  BRANCHES— HORS-D'CEUVRES 

SOUPS    DRESSED   FISH,  ENTREES,    REMOVES,   SAUCES.  ROASTS,  SECOND 

COURSE  DISHES,  VEGETABLES,  SALADS,  SWEETS,  AND  SAVOURIES 

Sftctcbes  anl)  Quotations  of  Culinary  Xitcrature 

A     COMPLETE     MENU     COMPILER     AND     REGISTER     OF     MOST 
KNOWN     DISHES     IN     ENGLISH     AND     FRENCH 

WITH   PRACTICAL  OBSERVATIONS  ON  THE  SAME 

THIRD     EDITION,     REVISED    AND     ENLARGED 

CHAKLES-  HERMAN    SENN 

ISS1T,CTIKG   AND  CONSULTING   CAUPDE    CUISlNE.   NAIIONAL  TRAINDCG   SCHOOL   OF    COOKERY 

DISTINGUlSaED,    ,W^TH    THE    GRAND    DECORATION    OF  "  LE    CORDON    ROUGE" 

GOLD  liEDALLiST  a.i:D  VEMBEH  Oj?  y^S  ACiDZJMFIlE  CUTSINE,  PARIS 

SPOTTISWOODE   &    CO.,   NEW-STREET   SQUARE,   LONDON 


/3 


'vu^ 


.  '   *•   •  • 

c  <-       •     •  •  • 

«   •   «  «  •    •  • 


PEEFACE 


Having  devoted  a  large  portion  of  my  life  to  the  study 
and  practice  of  the  various  branches  of  the  art  of 
Cookery — which  period  includes  several  years  of  practical 
experience  in  some  of  the  first  culinary  establishments, 
both  in  England  and  on  the  Continent — I  am  led  by 
the  experience  thus  gained,  to  the  conclusion  that  many 
things,  both  new  and  useful,  remain  to  be  added  to  the 
numerous  manuals  of  the  Culinary  Art  already  in 
existence. 

I  therefore  venture  to  offer  the  following  pages  to 
the  public,  in  the  hope  that  they  may  prove  interesting 
and  valuable  to  all,  especially  to  those  who  are  engaged 
in  the  business  of  catering. 

Of  the  numerous  books  on  Cookery  which  have  been 
recently  given  to  the  public — many  excellent  in  their 
way — the  majority  lack  one  very  essential  point,  viz.  : 
an  explanation  of  the  langue  cle  cuisine,  including  the 
numerous  French  phrases  and  technical  terms  now  in 
constant  use,  but  which  are  seldom  properly  understood. 

It  is  chiefly  to  enable  those  engaged  in  the  practice 
or  superintendence  of  high-class  Cookery  to  compose  a 
menu,  and  to  give  each  dish  its  correct  name — whether 
in  Enghsh  or  French — that  this  book  has  been  written. 

I  have  always  held  the  opinion,  that  in  cases  where 

B 


4  PRACTICAL    GASTEONOMY 

it  is  thought  necessary  to  give  French  names  to  the 
dishes,  this  should  be  done  as  concisely  as  possible,  by 
the  use  of  that  peculiar  French  which  is  tlie  language 
of  cookery.  I  have  therefore  given  the  names  of  the 
various  _pZft^s  in  the  "Menu  Compiler  and  Register  oi 
Dishes,"  to  which  I  have  appended  comprehensive 
descriptions. 

The  headings  to  each  list  of  the  various  kinds  oi 
comestibles  have  been  given  in  French  and  English. 
This  has  been  done  in  order  to  assist  the  inexperienced 
to  compile  a  bill  of  fare  correctly,  and  to  enable  them  tc 
supersede  the  French  names  (often  ridiculously  spelt), 
by  intelhgible  English  ones. 

The  Vocabulary  of  Terms  used  in  Cookery  contains 
nearly  a  thousand  words  and  phrases  used  in  the  art. 
These  are  translated  and  explained ;  and  details  of  the 
origin  and  history  of  the  more  interesting  are  also  given 

With  a  view  to  rendering  this  work  as  complete  at 
possible,  a  series  of  two  hundred  Specimen  Menus  haj 
been  inserted — in  English,  French,  and  other  languages 
These  mclude  examples  of  fixed-price  luncheons,  dinners 
&c.,  such  as  are  served  in  London  clubs,  hotels,  anc 
restaurants.  A  few  Classical  Menus  will  interesi 
students  of  history.  A  list  of  quotations  from  the  workf 
of  standard  authors  is  also  given,  which  will,  it  is  hoped 
Idc  found  useful  in  the  compilation  of  menus  for  specia 
occasions. 

The  object  of  this  book  is  to  present  to  the  readei 
an  Oracle  of  Gastronomy ;  a  culinary  guide  for  every- 
day reference ;  a  vocabulary  of  English  and  foreigr 
terms  used  in  cookery  ;  as  well  as  a  collection  o: 
epigrams  and  quotations  bearing  on  the  art ;  and  a  fe"w 
historical  sketches  relating  to  it.  I  therefore  trust  thai 
it  will  prove  a  help  to  advocates  of  the  School  of  Frencl 


PREFACE  D 

Cookery,  a  gastronomic  treat  to  the  gourmet^  a  valuable 
book  of  reference  for  hotel  proprietors,  managers,  and 
chefs,  as  well  as  for  ladies  who  manage  their  own  esta- 
blishments ;  and  that  it  may  be  found  useful  and  accept- 
able to  all  householders. 

I  have  spared  no  pains  to  render  this  work  as  com- 
plete and  accurate,  and  *'  up  to  date,"  as  possible  ;  but, 
as  new  dishes  and  new  ideas  in  regard  to  culinary 
preparations  are  coming  to  light  almost  daily,  I  cannot 
claim  for  my  book  that  it  is  a  complete  and  exhaustive 
treatise,  although  I  have  endeavoured  as  far  as  possible 
to  make  it  one. 

THE  AUTHOR. 

Chateau,  Yevky: 

February  1892. 


ADVERTISEMENT  TO  THE  SECOND  EDITION. 


In  issuing  the  Second  Edition  of  this  book  I  desire  to 
express  my  best  thanks  for  the  manner  in  which  it  has 
been  received  by  the  Catering  Fraternity,  as  well  as 
others  interested  in  the  Art  of  Cookery. 

With  the  view  of  increasing  its  general  utility  the 
work  has  undergone  careful  revision. 

I  wish  also  to  assure  my  readers  that  I  will  not 
relax  my  endeavours  to  improve  the  work,  by  including 
any  novelties  and  improvements  in  the  Art  which  may 
come  under  my  notice. 

C.  H.  S. 

London : 

March  5,  1 894. 


6 
PEEFACE    TO   THE    THIRD   EDITION. 


I  BEG  to  return  my  thanks  for  the  patronage  accorded 
to  former  editions  of  my  book,  ''  Practical  Gastronomy 
and  Culinary  Dictionary."  The  success  with  which 
this  work  has  been  received,  both  by  the  profession  and 
the  general  pubhc,  has  encouraged  me  to  hope  for  a 
continuance  of  their  generous  approbation  and  support. 

At  the  suggestion  of  some  of  the  leading  members 
of  the  profession,  and  several  ladies  and  gentlemen 
interested  in  cookery  and  gastronomy,  I  have  increased 
the  work  by  adding  eight  hundred  recipes  of  useful  and 
up-to-date  cookery,  most  of  which  have  been  practically 
worked  out  and  tested.  This  addition  has  been  made 
with  the  hope  of  increasing  the  usefulness  of  the  book 
to  cooks,  managers,  and  others  to  whom  the  manage- 
ment of  the  kitchen  is  entrusted. 

A  great  part  of  the  work  has  been  rewritten,  and 
the  whole  of  it  carefully  revised  and  brought  up  to  the 
present  requirements  of  the  art.  The  vocabulary  of 
technical  terms  used  in  cookery  has  been  enlarged,  and 
bills  of  fare  (menus)  for  every  month  in  the  year  have 
been  added.  No  trouble  or  expense  has  been  spared  to 
bring  the  work  up  to  date,  and  make  it  a  reliable  text 
book  of  the  culinary  art,  useful  to  the  cook,  helpful  to 
those  desirous  of  a  more  exact  knowledge  of  the  art.  and 
acceptable  to  the  public  generally. 

I  take  this  opportunity  of  thanking  all  those  who 
have  shown  their  kind  appreciation  of  my  efforts,  and 
the  friendly  notices  of  the  press. 


— — — '^.    -^ 

London  :  November  1895. 


CONTENTS. 


(^FoT  AljyTiabetical  Index  see  end  of  the  BooTt.^ 


Peeface 


PAGE 

.       3 


PART  I. 
THE  ART  OF  COOKERY,  ANCIENT  AND  MODERN. 

Introductory 11 

Feasts  and  Epicures  of  Olden  Times     .        .        .        .27 
The  Tongue  and  the  Sense  of  Taste      .        .        .        .32 

PART  II. 

THE    COOK   AND   THE   KITCHEN. 

Introductory 35 

The  Early  Use  of  the  Word  Kitchen    .        .        .        .47 

The  Cook  in  Proverb 50 

The  Ten  Cardinal  Virtues  for  the  professional 

Cook 51 

Gastronomy  in  the  form  of  an  Aphorism      .        .        .52 
Brillat-Savarin's  Maxims  put  into  Ehyme   .  .    54 

Maxims  for  the  Kitchen 57 

Eating  and  Drinking  op  the  Turks        .        .        .        .58 

Chinese  Diet  and  Custom 60 

Culinary  Telephone 68 


HIGH-CLASS 


PART  III. 
AND    DOMESTIC 


THE   PRESENT 


COOKERY 
TIME. 


Introductory 
Notes  on  Boiling 
Notes  on  Boasting 
Notes  on  Stewing 
Notes  on  Frying 
Notes  on  Braising 


OF 

65 
71 

74 
76 
77 
79 


8  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 


PAGK 

Notes  on  Broiling  and  Grilling 81 

Notes  on  Salads  and  Salad  Dressing    .        .        ,        .82 


PART  IV. 

MENU-COMPILER  AND  REGISTER  OF  DISHES. 

Hors-d'ceuvre  froids— cold  side-dishes  .        .        .        .89 

PoTAGES— Soups 95 

Poissons— Fish .  109 

Releves — Removes 126 

Entrees  Legeres — Light  Entrees 135 

Entrees  Froides — Cold  Entrees 144 

Entrees  de  Veau — Entrees  of  Yeal  ....  148 
Entrees  de  Bceuf — Entrees  of  Beef  ....  169 
Entrees  d'Agneau — Entrees  of  Lamb  ....  183 
Entrees  de  Mouton— Entrees  op  Mutton  .  .  .  194 
Entrees  de  Porc — Entrees  of  Pork  ....  206 
Entrees  de  Volaille — Entrees  of  Poultry  .  .  .  212 
Entrees  de  Gibier — Entrees  of  Game    ....  237 

Rotis — Roasts 250 

Legumes — Vegetables 255 

Salades— Salads 284 

Legumes  Con  fits  au  Vinaigbe,  kc. — Pickled  Vege- 
tables, &c 289 

Sauces — Sauces 290 

Entremets  de  Douceur — Sweet  Dishes  ....  305 

PouDiNGs — Puddings 305 

Souffles  et  Omelettes — Souffles  and  Omelets      .  308 

Gateaux— Cakes 309 

Patisserie,  &c. — Pastry,  &c 310 

Charlottes — Charlottes 312 

Beignets,  &c. — Fritters,  &c. 313 

Fruits  au  Riz,  Croutes,   &c. — Fruits  with  Rice, 

Crusts,  &c 314 

Blancmangers  et  Cremes — Blancmanges  and  Cream    3 1 6 
Compotes  DE  Frltets — Stewed  Fruits  .        .        .        .316 

Gelees,  &c. — Jellies,  &;c 

Cremes  Fouettees — Whipped  Creams         .        .        .31^ 
Glaces— Ices 319^ 


CONTENTS 


9 


Entremets  Savoukbux,  &c. — Savoury  Dishes,  &c. 
Dessert  : — Fruits  and  Biscuits 
Fromages — Cheeses 


PAGB 

.  322 
,  335 
.  338 


PART  V. 
RECHERCHE  COOKERY. 


CHAPTER 


Specimen  Menus  for  each  Month 
I.  Elementary  Methods  and  Eules 
II.  HoRS  d'CEuvre  (Cold)     .... 

III.  Soups  (Potages) 

IV.  Sauces  and  Forcemeats 
V.  Garnitures  and  Decorations 

VI.  Dressed  Fish  and  Fish  Entrees  . 
VII.  Cold  Entrees  and  Second  Course  Dishes 

VIII.  Entrees  (Hot) 

IX.  Eemoves  and  Boasts      .... 
X.  Dressed  Vegetables  and  Salads 

XI.  Hot  Sweets 

XII.  Cold  Sweets  and  Ices  .... 

XIII.  Savouries  and  Breakfast  Dishes 

XIV,  Pastries,  Cakes,  Biscuits,  &c. 

PART  VI. 

MENUS  AND   THEIR   COMPUTATION. 

Introductory 

Specimen  Dinner  Menus    .... 
Lenten  Dinner  Menus       .... 

Ball  Supper  Menus 

Typical  American  Menus  .... 
Selection  of  Menus  op  Luncheons,  Dinners, 

AND  Suppers 

Menus  in  Various  Languages  . 

Humorous  Menus 

Ancient  Menus 

Notes  on  laying  a  Table  .... 

Notes  on-  Carving 

Wines  (order  op  the  serving  op  wines) 
Notes  on  Wines  for  the  Table 
List  of  various  Wines       ... 


341 
354 
375 
389 
420 
444 
455 
479 
502 
560 
579 
600 
621 
646 
675 


705 
711 
737 

740 

752 

766 
801 
806 
817 
834 
835 
837 
838 
839 


10^ 


CONTENTS 


PART  VII. 

CLASSICAL  BILL  OF   FARE   QUOTATIONS    843 


PART  VIII. 
FAMOUS   CHEFS   AND  EPICURES    . 

PART  IX. 

CULINARY  DICTIONARY. 
Vocabulary  of  Terms  used  in  Cookery 


.  849 


872 


ILLUSTRATIONS. 

A  DESIGN  Illustrating  the  Art  of  Cookery 

AND  Dining 
Brillat-Savarin 
Dr.  William  Kitchiner  . 
Antontn  Careme 
Louis  Eustache  Ude 
Alexis  Soyer    . 
Charles  E.  Francatelli 
Alfred  Suzanne 
Eugene  Pouard       .        .  . 
Antoine  a.  Parmentier  . 
Menus  for  each  Month 
A  Model  French  Kitchen 
Veal  (Joints,  &c.)  . 
Beef         „  „     . 

IjAMB  ,,  ,,       . 

Mutton     „         „     . 

POBK  „  „       . 

Neck  of  Veal. 

Shoulder  of  Mutton 

Leg  of  Mutton 

Turkey 

Calf's  Head     . 

Kitchen  Fitted  with  Gas  Apparatus 

Poultry    . 

Artistic  Dishes 


Frontispiece 

.  facinq 

56 

849 

851 

855 

858 

862 

865 

866 

868 

342 

-352 
358 
502 
516 
523 
527 
532 
572 
573 
574 
574 

513, 

575 

578 

559,  57G, 

577 

c 

134,  764, 

872 

PART     I 


THE    AET    OF    COOKEEY 


Ancient  and  Modern. 


Although  the  traditions  of  classic  cookery  are  almost 
effaced,  there  still  remains  sufficient  record  to  afford 
some  grounds  for  comparison,  and  he  must  be  prejudiced 
who  hesitates  for  a  moment  in  awarding  the  laurels  to 
the  moderns. 

Cookery  is  eminently  experimental,  and  our  knowledge 
is  increased  through  our  daily  experience  and  practice  in 
the  art. 

Jean  Clerc,  speaking  once  of  a  celebrated  cookery 
book,  observes  that  the  work  contains  receipts  for  "  some 
most  extraordinary  dishes  and  strange  stews  and  ragouts, 
which  would  ruin  one's  stomach  and  burn  up  the  blood." 
The  Komans  in  their  days  excelled  in  tne  culinary  art, 
and  we  have  been  enabled  to  inherit  from  them  and 
profit  by  the  benefit  of  their  experience,  which  means 
that    we   have    surpassed   them    in   the  knowledge   of 

1 


12  PEACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

classical  cookery  without  their  extravagances.  The 
characteristic  of  ancient  cookery  was  profusion;  the 
characteristic  of  modern  cookery  is  delicacy  and 
refinement. 

The  only  ancient  sauce  which  seems  to  remain  on 
record  is,  so  far  as  we  know,  the  one  known  to  the 
Romans  under  the  name  of  "  Garum" ;  it  is  made  from 
the  brine  of  anchovy-fish.  This  sauce  is  still  used  in 
Turkey  as  a  sort  of  flavouring  for  their  national  dish 
called  "Pilau."  All  traces  of  Roman  cookery  as  an  art 
seem  to  have  been  lost  about  the  fifth  century  ;  but  the 
monks  soon  revived  the  ancient  art.  They  made 
cookery  a  study,  wrote  their  experiences,  and  their 
records  have  been  handed  down  to  us. 

The  name  of  Coelius  Apician,  well  connected  with 
Roman  cookery,  is  associated  with  the  most  ancient 
European  work  on  cookery. 

Warner  in  his  "  Antiquitates  Culinariae,"  1791,  gives 
some  specimens  of  Roman  cookery  recipes  :  two  of  these 
show  how  the  Roman  cook  of  the  Apician  epoch  used  to 
dress  a  hog's  paunch,  and  how  to  manufacture  "sauce 
for  a  boiled  chicken."  Another  name  known  as  that  of 
a  famous  Roman  epicure  is  "Trojan,"  who,  it  is  said,  was 
the  true  godfather  of  the  culinary  manual.  M.  W. 
Carew  Hazlitt,  in  his  work  on  "  Old  Cookery  Books  and 
Ancient  Cuisine,"  gives  that  full  credit  to  the  ancient 
Roman  Cathohc  clergy,  which  has  not  always  been 
accorded  to  them,  of  being  largely  instrumental  in 
modifying  the  early  barbarism  of  the  table  and  of 
encouraging  the  study  of  gastronomy.     Their  secluded 


THE    ART    OP    COOKERY  13 

life,  he  thinks,  led  them  "  to  seek  some  compensation 
for  the  loss  of  the  other  wordly  pleasures  in  those  of  the 
table." 

In  the  early  days  the  choice  of  animal  food  was 
somewhat  coarse  as  well  as  exclusive,  as  at  that  time  the 
whale  was  in  considerable  requisition  for  gastronomic 
purposes.  It  was  found  on  the  royal  table  as  well  as 
on  that  of  the  Lord  Mayor  of  London,  who  had  then 
evidently,  as  now,  a  weakness  for  culinary  delicacies. 
The  "piece  de  resistance,"  I  read,  at  a  banquet  which 
Wolsey  gave  some  of  his  official  acquaintances  in  1509 
was  a  young  porpoise,  and  it  was  customary  for  such  to 
be  taken  to  the  banqueting  hall  whole,  and  carved  by  the 
officer  in  attendance. 

In  the  fifteenth  century  the  list  of  dishes  in  vogue 
was  augmented,  and  amongst  others  in  regular  use  were 
fish  soup,  wine  soup,  and  ale  soup. 

The  cannibals  of  the  ancient  world  (Anthropophagi) 
greedily  devoured  the  carcasses  of  their  fellow  creatures  ; 
while  the  inoffensive  "  Cabri  "  (a  Scythian  tribe)  found 
both  food  and  drink  in  the  agreeable  nut  of  the  Pontic 
tree;  the  "Lotophagi"  lived  entirely  on  the  fruit  of 
the  lotus  tree  ;  the  savage  "  Troglodyte  "  esteemed  a 
living  serpent  the  most  delicate  of  all  morsels  while  the 
capricious  palate  of  the  "  Ziguntini  "  preferred  the  ape 
to  everything. 

The  Eomans  usually  began  their  feasts  with  eggs, 
and  ended  them  with  fruits  ;  hence  Ab  ovo  usque  ad 
mala.     During   the  luxurious   period  of   their  empire, 


14  PRACTICAL   GASTRONOMY 

they  took  five  meals  a  day ;  which  consisted  of  the 
following :  a  breakfast  (ye?itocwZ^im) ;  a  dinner  (^:)raw{?mm), 
which  was  a  light  meal  without  any  formal  preparation ; 
between  dinner  and  supper  they  had  a  kind  of  tea  as  we 
would  call  it  [merenda) ;  a  supper  {cospa  or  coRua) ; 
this  formed  their  great  meal,  and  generally  consisted  of 
two  courses,  the  first  of  meats,  the  second  of  a  sort 
of  dessert  ;  another  meal  was  served  after  supper : 
this  was  called  comissatio,  something  delicious  or 
revelling. 

The  dishes  which  the  Eomans  held  in  the  highest 
estimation  were  :  pheasants*  (_2j/iasza?iz^,  "ex  Phaside 
Colchido  fluvio "),  nightingales  {hiscinics),  thrushes 
(turdi),  ducks,  geese,  sausages,  and  puddings. 

The  meat  of  the  Porpoise,  a  marine  animal,  was 
dressed  in  various  ways,  salted,  roasted,  and  stewed. 
The  flesh  of  it  was  hard  and  rancid,  and,  although  now 
quite  unknown,  it  is  said  that  it  was  sold  in  the  markets 
of  most  Portuguese  towns  in  the  last  century.  The 
swan  was  also  a  most  favourite  dish  in  the  time  of  our 
ancestors.  At  a  dinner  given  by  the  Earl  of  Northumber- 
land in  the  year  1512  it  is  said  that  the  number,  con- 
sumed amounted  to  twenty. 

Table-cloths  were  used  at  Norman  feasts,  and  the 
long  ends  were  used  as  napkins  ;  hence  their  condition 
would  scarcely  allow  of  a  second  use.  Later  on  these 
were  discarded.  Forks  were  not  known  at  that  time, 
but  bills  of  fare  showed  some  variety  and  taste  as  well  as 

*  From  phasiamis,  a  biid  coming  from  the  river  Phasis, 
in  Colchid,  south  of  Caucasus. 


THE    ABT    OF    COOKERY  15 

a  great  deal  of  costliness.  Their  cookery  was  such  an 
improvement  on  that  of  their  predecessors  in  the  island 
that  the  French  and  Norman  dishes  drove  the  Saxon 
tongue  and  table  into  an  almost  vulgar  position.  The 
art  was  so  much  esteemed  that  monarchs  even  granted 
estates  on  condition  that  the  holder  thereof  should,  through 
his  cook,  prepare  a  certain  dish  at  stated  periods,  and  set 
it  before  the  king. 

The  Norman  conqueror  William  bestowed  several 
portions  of  land  on  these  highly  favoured  domestics 
"the  cooks."  This  shows  us  how  sensible  our  fore- 
fathers were,  as  at  that  time  the  talent  of  knowing  how 
to  cook  was  so  rare  that  it  was  considered  a  high  dis- 
tinction, so  much  so  that  the  king's  first  and  second 
cooks  were  titled  *'  Esquires  "  by  their  office. 

Under  the  Normans  the  celebrated  boar's  head  be- 
came a  royal  dish,  and  its  progress  from  the  kitchen 
to  the  banqueting  hall  was  under  the  escort  of  a 
guard,  and  heralded  by  trumpeters.  There  is  no  doubt 
that  our  forefathers  had  firm  faith  in  good  cooking, 
that  is,  of  course,  as  good  as  it  could  be  at  the  time.  It 
would,  however,  be  unjust  to  draw  any  comparison  be- 
tween the  cooking  of  the  days  of  yore  and  to-day.  But 
it  was  the  best  they  could  get,  and  that  perhaps 
might  compare  favourably  with  sojne  of  the  cookery 
with  which  many  of  us  moderns  are  familiar.  The 
saying,  "God  sent  meat,  and  the  devil  sent  cooks,"  is 
a  maxim  which  up  to  the  present  has  not  been  success- 
fully disputed ;  and  if,  at  occasional  exceptions,  this 
may  have  been  true,  there  is,  owing  to  the  intelligence 


16  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

of  the  present  age,  no  longer  any  need  for  the  old  sneer 
of  this  dyspeptic  cynic. 

The  ancient  Britons  have  more  than  once  been  com- 
pared with  the  New  Zealanders.  They  were,  perhaps, 
more  unci\ilised  and  quite  as  ignorant,  and  their  absti- 
nence from  the  flesh  of  hares  and  poultry  and,  in  the 
northern  parts  of  the  island,  from  fish,  bespeaks  a  race 
which  lacked  at  once  industry  and  knowledge.  Indeed, 
it  is  by  no  means  certain  that  we  do  not  wrong  the 
New  Zealanders  by  suggesting  their  possible  inferiority 
to  the  Britons,  seeing  that  the  latter  are  strongly 
suspected  of  being  guilty  of  the  most  revolting  canni- 
balism. 

They  were  clever  enough  to  brew  mead  and  ale,  but 
T\dne  and  civilisation  were  brought  to  them  by  their 
enemies,  the  Roman  invaders,  who,  for  some  reasons, 
they  might  have  welcomed  as  "  our  friends  the  enemy." 
Their  seats  were  skins  or  bundles  of  hay  flung  on  the 
ground,  their  table  was  a  low  stool,  around  which 
British  chiefs  sat. 

They  ate  but  twice  a  day,  their  last  meal  being  the 
more  important  one.  They  used  to  tear  their  food  with 
teeth  and  nails,  or  hacked  at  it  with  a  wretched  knife, 
as  bad  as  anything  of  the  sort  now  in  common  use 
in  gaol. 

The  Anglo-Saxons  introduced  four  meals  a  day : 
they  ate  good  solid  joints  of  flesh  meat,  boiled,  baked, 
or  broiled. 

It  would  seem  that  in  those  days  cooks  were  not  of 
such  an  illustrious  guild  as  that  which  they  subse- 


THE    ART    OF    COOKERY  17 

quently  formed.  A  cook  among  the  Anglo-  Saxons  was 
valued  very  little  higher  than  the  calf  he  cut  up  into 
scallops.  He  was  a  slave,  and  was  as  unceremoniously 
bequeathed  in  his  owner's  will  as  any  goods  or  chattels. 
At  the  Anglo-Saxon  feasts  men  and  women  sat  together 
as  they  do  now,  which  is  a  mark  of  civihsation,  and 
pronounced  to  be  very  refining.  Turkey  is  the  only 
European  nation  that  does  not  follow  this  capital 
example. 

When  the  Normans  came  to  England,  they  brought 
with  them  greater  comfort  in  regard  to  cooking  as 
well  as  eating. 

Much  of  the  exquisite  cuisine  of  the  eighteenth 
century  is  due  to  that  famous  epicure  "Regent  Or- 
leans." The  "  pain  a  la  d'Orleans  "  was  the  invention 
of  the  Regent  himself  ;  the  "  filets  de  lapereau  k  la 
Berri"  were  invented  by  his  abandoned  daughter, 
the  Duchess  de  Berri,  whose  suppers  were  the  best 
and  most  profligate  m  Paris.  The  "  filets  de  volaille  k 
la  Bellevue  "  were  invented  by  the  Marquise  de  Pom- 
padour in  the  Chateau  of  Bellevue  for  the  little  sup- 
pers of  the  King.  The  "petites  bouchees  a  la  Reine  " 
owe  their  origin  to  Marie,  the  wife  of  Louis  XV., 
and  nearly  all  the  entrees  bearing  the  name  of 
Bayonnaises  "  were  invented  by  the  Marechal  Due  de 
Richelieu. 

The  French  Revolution  made  a  mournful  gap  in  the 
annals  of  cooking.  The  stoic's  fare,  the  radish  and  the 
egg  of  the  severe  Spartan,  and  the  black  bread  of 
the  Germans  of  the  Middle  Ages  were  then  in  vogue, 


18  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

and  for  three  years  this  Spartan  regime  continued. 
Happily  for  mankind  and  gourmands,  the  traditions 
of  the  French  kitchen  were  preserved,  even  during 
this  depressing  period,  and  under  Napoleon  the  art 
revived  again. 

This  was  signalised  by  the  publication  of  the  first 
number  of  the  "  Almanach  des  Gourmands,"  which 
the  late  Duke  of  York  called  the  most  delightful 
book  ever  printed.  The  author  and  editor  of  it  was 
*'  Grimod  de  la  Reyniere,"  a  quaint  humourist  as  well 
as  an  able  chef. 

This  is  what  he  says,  amongst  other  things,  con- 
cerning cooks  and  cookery :  "  The  finger  of  a  good 
cook  should  alternate  perpetually  between  the  stew- 
pan  and  his  mouth,  and  it  is  thus  in  tasting  every 
moment,  his  Eagouts,  that  he  can  hit  upon  the  ]Drecise 
medium  so  as  to  make  him  a  competent  judge  of  his 
dainty  dishes." 

It  seems,  however,  that  some  did  not  appreciate 
these  high- class  French  dishes  as  did  others,  for  I  note 
in  the  work  entitled  "  Antiquitates  Culinarias,"  which 
was  published  in  1791,  that  French  cookery  was  called 
"the  art  of  spoiling  good  meat"  and  "the  art  of 
making  bad  meat  eatable." 

The  Scotch  at  this  time  were,  according  to  a  writer, 
very  conservative  in  their  cookery  and  plain  in  their 
living.  It  is  said  that  only  their  fish,  oatmeal,  and 
whiskey  kept  them  alive. 


THE    ART    OF    COOKERY  19 

At  about  this  time,  too,  we  are  informed  that  the 
""  kitchen  staff  of  a  noble  establishment  "  consisted  of — 

A  yeoman  and  groom  for  the  cellar. 

A  yeoman  and  groom  for  the  pantry. 

A  yeoman  and  groom  for  the  buttery. 

A  yeoman  for  the  ewry. 

A  yeoman  purveyor. 

A  master  cook,  under-cooks,  and  pastry-man. 

A  yeoman  and  groom  for  the  scullery,  one  to  be  in 
the  larder  and  slaughterhouse. 

An  achator,  or  buyer. 

Three  errand  boys  and  three  kitchen  boys. 

The  most  interesting  cookery  book  of  ancient  publi- 
cation is  one  written  by  Monsieur  Marin  in  the  year 
1738.  It  was  called  "  Les  Dons  de  Comus."  M. 
Marin  was  cook  to  the  Duchesse  de  Chaulnes.  The 
author,  in  treating  of  the  science  of  cookery,  says : 
**  The  science  consists  in  decomposing  and  in  render- 
ing easy  of  digestion  the  viands,  in  extracting  from 
them  light  and  nourishing  juices,  and  in  so  mixing  them 
together  that  no  one  flavour  shall  predominate,  but  that 
all  shall  be  harmonised  and  blended." 

The  first  cookery  book  in  a  modern  language  was 
published  in  Madrid  in  1521.  Spain  has  therefore  the 
honour  of  being  the  pioneer  in  this  direction,  and 
claims  to  the  merit  of  having  improved  and  extended 
the  science  which  recognises  the  palate,  stomach,  and 
digestion.  It  is,  however,  supposed  that  an  English- 
man, a  Mr.  Alexander  Neckham,  wrote  a  book  on 
practical  cookery  in  the  twelfth  century,  and  no  doubt 
several  quaint  volumes  followed  during  the  succeeding 


20  PEACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

centuries.  Italy  comes  next  to  Spain  for  developing  the 
culinary  art ;  but  France,  although  now  the  nurse  of  all 
modern  cooks,  then  was  in  a  state  of  comparative  dark- 
ness with  regard  to  cookery. 

In  1569  such  articles  as  '*  simnels,  buns,  cakes, 
biscuits,  comfits,  caraways,  and  cracknels  "  were  on 
sale  in  the  bakers'  and  confectioners'  shops  in  Great 
Britain. 

Li  1580  the  delicacies  of  the  Italian  table  were  in- 
troduced into  Paris,  and  from  that  time  the  French 
made  rapid  progress  in  the  culinary  art,  and  thus  soon 
surpassed  their  Italian  masters.  The  first  practical 
cookery  book  of  France  was  published  at  Rouen  in 
1692.  Many  of  its  recipes  are  curious,  but  nevertheless 
useful.  The  frequency  with  which  capers  are  introduced 
is  extraordinary,  the  more  so  as  they  rarely  make  their 
appearance  in  modern  French  cookery  books,  except 
occasionally  in  entrees  or  ragouts.  The  taste  for 
foreign  dishes  and  higher  dishes  in  cookery  (French) 
made  its  appearance  in  England  in  the  seventeenth 
century,  and  the  cookery  books  of  that  period  reflected 
this  by  publishing  recipes  under  such  titles  as  "To 
make  Portugal  dishes,"  "  To  make  Lady  Abergavenny's 
cheese  "  and  "  The  Countess  of  Rutland's  receipt  for 
making  the  rare  Banbury  cake,"  which  was  as  much 
praised  as  her  daughter's  pudding. 

The  hog  barbecued  was  roasted  whole,  stuffed  with 
spice,  and  basted  with  Madeira  wine. 

The  bill  of  fare  at  this  time  consisted  m  the  month 
of  April  of  the  following  : — 


THE    ABT    OF    COOKERY  21 

Green  Geese,  or  Veal  and  Bacon. 
Haunch  of  Venison,  roasted. 
A  Lumber  Pie. 
Rabbits  and  Tarts. 

Second  Course : 

Cold  Lamb. 
Neat's  Tongue  Pie. 
Cold  Salmon. 
Lobsters  and  Prawns. 
Asparagus. 

The    following  bill  of  fare  was  served  in  a   noble- 
man's family  in  the  month  of  April  1782  : — 

Spring  Soup,  removed  with  Mackerel. 

Lamb's  ears  au  Befhem,  Tanfey  Pudding. 

Pigeon  Comport,  Fennel  Sauce. 

Greens,  Broccoli,  Oyster  Sauce. 

Leg  of  boiled  Lamb,  Loin  fried. 

Chickens  boiled.  Tongue. 

Rabbits  fricassee  Brown. 

Rocom-bole  Spinach. 

Savory  Sauce,  Plain  Butter. 

Soup  Vermicelli,  removed  with. 

Crimped  Cod  fish. 

Cotelettes  a  la  Maintenon. 

Lemon  Pudding. 

Jelly,  Cheese  Cakes. 

The  first  really  practical  and  useful  work  on  Enghsh 
cookery,  published  in  1662,  was  called  the  "Queen's 


22  PEACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

Closet  Opened."  Some  ten  years  after,  another  work 
was  published,  called  the  "Ladies'  Companion,"  which 
contained  some  very  cmious  instructions  as  to  a  lady's 
conduct  at  the  dinner-table. 

The  following  are  a  few  examples  : — 

"  Do  not  lean  your  elbows  on  the  table." 

"  Discover  not  by  any  ravenous  gesture  your  angry 

appetite  nor  fix  your  eyes  too  greedily  on   the  meat 

before   you,   as  if  you  would  devour  more  than  your 

throat  can  swallow." 

"  Do  not  eat  spoon-meat  so  hot  that  the  tears  stand 

in  your  eyes,  or  that  thereby  you  betray  your  intolerable 

greediness." 

"  Fill  not  your  mouth  so  full  that  your  cheeks  shall 

swell  Hke  a  pair  of  Scotch  bagpipes." 

"It  is  uncivil  to  rub  your  teeth  in  company,  or  pick 

them  after  meals  with  your  knife  or  otherwise." 

The  following  advice  is  given  to  children  : — 

**  Avoid  smacking  your  lips  in  eating." 

"  Forbear  putting  both  hands  to  your  mouth  at  once, 
nor  gnaw  your  meat,  but  cut  it  handsomely,  and  eat 
sparingly." 

"Let  your  nose  and  hands  be  always  clean." 

"  When  you  have  dined  or  supped,  rise  from  the 
table  and  carry  your  trencher  or  plate  with  you,  doing 
your  obeisance  to  the  company." 

The  following  works  give  some  insight  into  English 


THE    ART    OF    COOKEEY  23 

cookery  at  their  respective  periods,  and  they  reflect  great 
credit  upon  their  authors  : — 

Sir  Kenehn  Digby's  Cookery,  published  in  1669. 

Hartman's  Cookery,  and  Description  of  an  Engine 
to  cook  without  wood,  candles,  coals  or  oil,  published 
in  1682. 

Marnitte's  Perfect  English  Cook,  published  in  1686. 

The  compleat  Cook's  Guide,  published  in  1701. 

The  Queen's  Cookery,  published  in  1709. 

Incomparable  Secrets  in  Cookery,  published  in  1710. 

Carter's  System  of  Cookery,  published  in  1730. 

Dr.  King's  Art  of  Cookery  in  Verses,  published  in 
1740. 

The  French  are  justly  famed  for  their  skill  and  taste 
in  culinary  matters ;  they  know  how  to  prepare  a 
nourishing  and  palatable  dish  so  that  but  little  alcoholic 
stimulants  are  required.  This  probably  accounts  for 
the  saying,  "  As  many  Frenchmen  as  many  cooks." 
Yet  surrounded  as  they  are  by  the  most  delicious 
wines  and  liqueurs,  offering  every  temptation  to  render 
drunkenness  attractive,  it  is  perhaps  true,  as  the  saying 
goes,  that  a  tippling  Frenchman  is  a  rara  avis, 

England,  although  now  greatly  advanced  in  the 
art  of  cookery,  was,  according  to  early  traditions,  at 
one  time  very  much  behind.  From  the  reign  of  Queen 
Elizabeth  up  to  the  time  of  the  Revolution,  the  style 
was  undoubtedly  substantial,  and  cookery  in  general 
was  coarse  and  heavy.  In  Queen  Anne's  time,  how- 
ever, the  art  of  cookery  was  much  improved. 

During  the  reign  of  Queen  Ehzabeth  the  larder's 


^4  PEACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

best  provision  used  to  consist  principally  of  chines  of 
beef  and  pork,  which  were  sent  to  the  dinner-tables 
smoked  and  cold.  Remains  of  such  joints  were  sent 
up  the  next  day  and  washed  down  with  foaming 
tankards  of  ale. 

The  pages  of  Pope  throw  an  important  light  on  the 
cookery  of  his  time,  as  well  as  on  the  social  charac- 
teristics of  the  epoch. 

"Preach  as  I  please,  I  doubt  our  curious  men 
Will  choose  a  pheasant  still  before  a  hen. 
Yet  hens  of  Guinea  feed  as  good,  I  hold, 
Except  you  eat  the  feathers  green  and  gold 
Of  carps  and  mullets,  why  prefer  the  great. 
Though  cut  in  pieces  as  my  lord  can  eat  ? 
Yet  for  small  turbots  such  esteem  profess. 
Because  God  made  these  large,  the  others  less. 
Oldfield,  with  more  than  harpy  throat  endued, 
Cries,  'Send  me,  gods  !  a  whole  hog  barbecued.'  " 

"  The  Connoisseur,"  published  in  1754,  gives 
reference  to  the  quality  of  cooking  at  the  Star  and 
Garter.  "  They  drove  to  the '  Star  and  Garter '  to  regale 
on  Macaroni,  or  toyed  with  ortolans  at  White's  or 
Pontac's.  At  Dolly's  and  Horsman's  beefsteaks  were 
eaten  with  gill  ale." 

"  The  art  of  Cookery,"  by  a  lady,  published  in  1765, 
contains  several  useful  recipes.  The  "  Cook's  Oracle," 
by  Dr.  Kitchener,  published  in  1817,  was  also  a  very 
popular  work.  The  best  of  cookery  books  which  were 
published    at    that    time    was   undoubtedly   that    by 


THE    ART    OF    COOKERY  25 

M.  Ude.  Louis  Eustache  Ude  was  an  eminent  French 
cook :  he  superintended  the  kitchens  of  Louis  XVI. 
and  the  Earl  of  Sefton. 

The  cookery  of  England  is  not,  generally  speaking, 
a  thing  of  luxury  and  art,  but  for  a  plain  and  at  the 
same  time  substantial  meal  there  can  be  nothing  more 
agreeable  than  a  well-cooked  ''English  dimier."  The 
patriotic  Briton  has  a  right  to  be  proud  of  Thackeray's 
lines,  which  run  as  follow  : — 

"  Dear  Lucy,  you  know  what  my  wish  is. 
I  hate  all  your  Frenchified  fuss  ; 
Your  silly  Entrees  and  made  dishes 
Were  never  intended  for  us. 
But  a  plain  leg  of  mutton,  my  Lucy, 
I  pray  thee  get  ready  at  three. 
Have  it  smoking  and  tender  and  juicy. 
And  what  better  meat  can  there  be  ?  " 

There  are,  however,  not  two  men  who  will  agree  as 
to  what  constitutes  a  good  dinner. 

The  father  of  the  late  Earl  of  Dudley,  one  of  the 
most  noted  gourmands  of  his  time,  used  to  say,  "  A 
good  soup,  a  small  turbot,  a  neck  of  venison,  duck- 
lings with  green  peas,  or  chicken  with  asparagus, 
and  an  apricot  tart  is  a  dinner  for  an  emperor." 

I  certainly  agree  with  him,  but  should  think  that 
many  would  be  quite  contented  with  less,  and  if  we  never 
dined  off  anything  worse  than  Lucy's  leg  of  mutton, 
"  smoking  and  tender  and  juicy,"  we  ought  not  to 
complain. 


26  PKACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

Who  shall  say  what  stupendous  issues  in  the  world's 
history  have  not  turned  upon  good  or  bad  cookery  ?  It 
has  always  been  a  reproach  to  the  English  that  they  are 
behind  the  rest  of  the  civilised  world  in  respect  of  cookery. 
A  witty  Frenchman  once  spoke  of  the  English  as  "  a 
nation  with  fifty  religions  and  one  sauce."  I  do  not 
think  they  are  as  bad  as  that,  and  if  there  is  still  some 
reproach  clinging  to  their  nation  in  this  respect,  it  is 
proved  and  admitted  by  competent  judges  that  a  first- 
rate  dinner  in  England  is,  beyond  all  comparison,  better 
than  a  dinner  of  the  same  class  in  any  other  country 
for  the  following  simple  reason,  that  English  gold  can 
buy  the  best  cooks,  just  as  it  can  purchase  the  best 
singers.  The  greatest  cuisinier  of  his  day,  L.  E.  Ude, 
wrote  as  follows  :  "  I  will  venture  to  affirm  that  cooking 
in  England,  when  well  done,  is  superior  to  that  of  any 
other  country  of  the  world." 

There  is  certainly  nothing  in  the  French  cookery  to 
equal  an  English  baron  of  beef,  the  noble  sirloins^ 
nor  haunches,  legs,  saddles  and  loins  of  Southdown 
mutton.  The  principal  articles  of  food,  in  the  quality  of 
which  the  French  surpass  the  English,  are  poultry  and 
veal ;  but  such  are  the  skill  and  science  of  their  cooks  that, 
with  worse  mutton,  worse  beef,  and  worse  lamb  than  the 
Enghsh,  they  produce  better  made  dishes  of  every  kind. 


THE    ART    OF    COOKERY  27 


Feasts  and  Epicures  of  Olden  Times. 


An  old  cook  gives  the  following  as  the  ordinary- 
bill  of  fare  for  a  gentleman's  table  about  Candlemas. 
The  first  course  consisted  of  cock-a-leekie,  a  Chatham 
pudding,  a  fricassee  of  chicken,  a  leg  of  mutton,  all 
garnished  with  barberries  ;  the  second,  the  more  sub- 
stantial, included  a  chine  of  mutton,  a  chine  of  veal,  a 
lark  pie,  a  pullet  larded,  a  pullet  plain,  all  garnished 
with  slices  of  orange  ;  the  third,  woodcocks,  a  couple  of 
rabbits,  asparagus,  a  Westphalia  gammon  ;  the  fourth, 
two  orange  tarts,  a  bacon  tart,  an  apple  tart,  a  tart  of 
Bon  Chretien  pears,  a  dish  of  pippins,  and  a  dish  of 
pearmains.  Still  earlier  (1470),  at  a  tremendous  banquet 
given  by  the  Earl  of  Warwick  to  George  Neville,  his 
brother,  upon  his  being  raised  to  the  dignity  of  Arch- 
bishop of  York,  the  provisions  are  on  a  truly  Gargantuan 
scale.  This  is  the  authentic  list  of  material  used  on  the 
occasion : — 

300  quarters  of  wheat  400  hernsies 

300  tuns  of  ale  200  pheasants 

104  tuns  of  wine  500  partridges 

1  tun  of  spic'd  ale  4,000  woodcocks 
10  fat  oxen  400  plovers 

6  wild  bulls  100  curlews 

300  pigs  100  quails 

1,004  wethers  1,000  eggets 


28  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

300  hogs  200  rees 

300  calves  4,000  bucks,  does,  and  roebucks 

3,000  geese  155  hot  venison  pasties 

3,000  capons  1,000  dishes  of  jellies 

100  peacocks  4,000  cold  venison  pasties 

200  cranes  2,000  hot  custards 

200  kids  4,000  cold  custards 

2,000  chickens  400  tarts 

4,000  pigeons  300  pikes 

4,000  rabbits  300  breams 

204  bitterns  8  seals 

4,000  ducks  4  porpoises 

It  is  not  surprising  to  learn  that  such  a  vast  pantry 
required  for  its  working  1,000  cooks,  62  kitcheners,  and 
515  scullions.  Massinger,  in  "  The  City  Madam,"  gives 
us  incidentally  a  glimpse  of  the  extravagance  of  material 
of  which  our  forefathers  were  guilty.  The  old  steward 
grumbles  — 

* '  Men  may  talk  of  country  Christmases  and  Court  gluttony, 
Their  thirty  pound  buttered    eggs,  their  pies  of  carps' 

tongues, 
Their  pheasants  dressed  with  ambergris,  the  carcasses 
Of  three  fat  wethers  bruised  for  gravy,  to 
Make  sauce  for  a  single  peacock." 

Yet  all  that,  he  says,  is  nothing — merely  "  fasts  " — 
compared  with  the  City  feasts.  It  is  enough  to  make 
one  pause  and  to  provoke  to  an  invective  anent  the 
decadence  of  all  that  is  virtuous  to  read  that  in  the 
thirteenth  century  a  rabbit  and  a  lamb  each  cost  the 
same,  fourpence  to  wit ;  that  a  turbot  was  to  be 
obtained  for  sixpence,  a  salmon  for  three  shillings,  a 


THE    ART   OF    COOKERY  29 

fat  hog  for  three  shillings  and  f ourpence,  and  a  fat  sheep 
for  one  shilling  and  twopence.  In  those  halcyon  days 
twenty  eggs  could  be  bought  for  a  penny,  you  could 
indulge  in  a  swan  for  fourpence,  and  wash  the  banquet 
down  with  ale  at  three  halfpence  the  gallon ! 

Amongst  the  dishes   of    the  middle  ages   we  find 
mention,  in  a  catalogue  of  extras  suitable  for  a  grand 
and  formal  repast,   of   *' an  umble   pie."      This  dish, 
provided  for  those  "  below  the   salt,"   was   composed 
of  the  "  umbles,"  or  entrails,  of   the  deer,  and    anti- 
quaries claim  to  have  found  in  it  the  origin  of   the 
colloquial   phrase  of    to-day — "to    eat    humble   pie." 
But  it  is  among  the  ancients  that  we  must  look  for 
the  really  heroic  days  of  feasting  and  eating.     In  quite 
early  time  the   appetite   seems   to  have   been   simply 
voracious,  unstimulated  as  it  was  by  the  refinements 
of  luxury  to  which  the  Romans  attained.     Theogenes 
and  Milo  are  both  credited  with  having  devoured  an 
ox  at  a  single  sitting ;  Astydamas  of  Miletus  ate  for 
supper  portions  quite  as  large ;  Canubis,  of  Lydia,  is 
not  the  only  potentate  believed  to  have  been  guilty  of 
cannibalism.      To  come  to  later  times,  Fuller  relates 
the  case  of  one  Nicholas  Wood  who,  in  providing  for 
a  feast,  was  considered  a  culinary  artist,  and  rose  in 
importance.      To  be  indifferent  to  the    description  of 
food  served  up  was  to  wound  this  personage    in  his 
tenderest  feelings.     The  Duke  of  Wellington  lost  the 
services  of  a  good  chef  for  no  other  reason  than  that 
he  was    careless  regarding   the  quality  of   his  meals. 
"  I  cannot  stay  with   him,"   said  the  wounded  artist. 


80  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

"  I  cook  him  a  dinner  fit  for  the  king,  he  say  nothing  ! 
I  go  out,  and  leave  the  dinner  to  ze  stupid  cookmaid 
— again  he  say  nothing."  A  more  pomted  rebuke  was 
administered  to  the  Duke  by  the  celebrated  epicure 
Cambaceres,  who  invited  him  to  a  banquet,  and,  piqued 
at  his  not  praising  the  excellence  of  the  cuisine,  asked 
his  opinion  of  some  particular  dish.  "  It  is  very  good," 
was  the  reply,  "  but,  to  tell  the  truth,  I  hardly  know 
what  I  eat."  The  disgusted  epicure  cried,  "then  why 
did  you  come  to  dine  with  me  ?  " 

Besides  the  indifferent  and  the  abnormal,  some 
persons  possess  what  may  be  called  a  diseased  appetite. 
Tastes  differ  widely  regarding  food.  Many  persons 
would  not  object  to  partake  of  the  meal  Kmg  James 
said  he  would  provide  "  for  the  devil  if  he  asked  him  t© 
dinner  " — pork  and  "a  pipe  for  digestion."  I  will  not 
dwell  on  cannibal  banquets,  nor  on  the  peculiar  method 
of  the  interment  of  a  husband's  ashes  practised  by  the 
Queen  of  Mausolus.  The  old  "  fire-eaters,"  so  common 
at  country  fairs  a  generation  ago,  professed  to  find  a 
supportmg  diet  in  fuel  and  flames.  Among  the  many 
attacks  made  upon  Dr.  Johnson  after  his  acceptance  of 
a  pension  from  the  Government  was  one  purporting  to 
be  written  by  a  famous '*  fire-eater  "  at  Bartholomew 
Fair.  He  complains  that  Dr.  Johnson  has  been 
rewarded  for  **  writing  well,"  and  Sheridan  for  "  speak- 
ing well,"  but  that  he  himself  has  received  nothing  for 
"  eating  well."  This  unappreciated  genius  declares  that 
his  favourite  mess  is  "brimstone  and  fire,"  and  that  if 


THE   ART   OF    COOKERY  31 

he  came  into  a  kitchen  where  a  sirloin  was  roasting 
he  would  "  eat  up  the  fire  and  leave  the  beef."  This 
taste  was  even  stranger  than  that  of  the  "  stone-eater" 
mentioned  at  Avignon.  His  keepers  professed  to  have 
discovered  him  on  a  desert  island,  where  he  was 
subsisting  wholly  upon  "  large  flints  and  such  marbles 
and  stones  as  he  could  make  into  a  paste,  which  was 
to  him  a  most  surporting  and  wholesome  food."  When 
brought  to  France  he  was  induced  to  eat  sparingly  of 
raw  meat,  but  refused  bread  and  vegetables.  Possessors 
of  appetites  like  these  might  at  least  rely  on  being 
able  to  feed  themselves  cheaply,  the  stone-eater 
boarding  himself  more  economically  than  the  votary 
of  tobacco — 

"  Who  hath  his  roast-meat  in  a  box, 
And  on  a  pipe  can  dine." 

As  a  rule,  an  appetite  and  the  means  of  gratifying  it 
are  too  often  separated.  An  old  Scotch  nurse  was  wont 
to  repeat  the  following  lines  as  grace  before  meat : — 

"  Some  have  meat, 
But  cannot  eat ; 
And  some  can  eat, 
But  have  no  meat ; 
But  we  have  meat, 
And  we  can  eat. 
And  so  the  Lord  be  thankit." 

Many  prescriptions  have  been  given  for  accommo- 
dating appetite    and   supply  from  Franklin's  famous 


32  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

mess  of  gruel,  with  bread  crumbled  in  it  (which  pro- 
fessed to  be,  like  Sam  Weller's  crumpets,  so  "  filling  at 
the  price  "),  down  to  the  "  cheap  living  "  recipe  of  an 
American,  who  advised  his  readers  to  "  first  eat  two 
cents'  worth  of  dried  apples ;  afterwards  drink  a  quart 
of  water  to  swell  the  apples." 


The  Tongue  and  the  Sense  of  Taste. 


The  tongue  is  not  the  only  organ  used  in  the  enjoy- 
ment of  the  sense  of  taste,  and  alone  it  is  scarcely 
capable  of  appreciating  delicate  flavours. 

The  difference  between  salt  and  sugar  when  placed 
on  the  tongue  is  hardly  perceptible,  provided  the  tongue 
is  not  allowed  to  touch  the  roof  of  the  mouth  and  the 
lips.  Indeed,  the  act  of  the  getting  the  full  enjoyment 
of  a  flavour,  commonly  called  smacking  the  lips,  consists 
in  bringing  the  tongue  into  contact  with  the  roof  of  the 
mouth  and  the  lips.  By  this  act  the  substance  to  be 
tasted  is  spread  over  the  surfaces  of  these  parts,  par- 
ticularly of  the  tongue,  and  mixed  with  the  saUva. 

How  this  act  produces  taste  is  not  exactly  known  ; 
but  we  do  know  that  the  tongue  is  covered  with  two 


THE    ART    OF    COOKERY  33 

layers  of  skin — the  lower  one  thick  and  filled  with  nerves, 
and  the  upper  one  thin  and  porous.  The  nerves  in  the 
lower  skin  are  the  nerves  of  taste,  and  probably  are  set 
into  vibration  by  the  substance  tasted,  very  much  as  the 
exquisitely  sensitive  nerves  of  the  ear  by  sound.  At  all 
events  the  sense  is  conveyed  to  the  brain,  where  we 
involuntarily  distinguish  between  pleasant  and  disagree- 
able tastes. 

The  nerves,  moreover,  of  the  tongue  are  not  all 
alike.  In  the  tip  of  the  tongue  they  are  clustered  to- 
gether more  closely  than  at  the  back,  and  transfer  to 
the  brain  a  different  sensation.  For  instance,  a  little 
powdered  alum  placed  on  the  back  of  the  tongue  tastes 
sweet,  whereas  on  the  tip  it  tastes  acid. 

The  sense  of  taste  is  an  almost  certain  guide  to  the 
wholesomeness  of  foods,  and  a  monitor  which  warns  us 
when  we  are  in  danger  of  swallowing  any  injurious  or 
poisonous  substance. 

Poisons,  as  a  rule,  are  extremely  disagreeable  to  the 
taste,  and  it  requires  an  effort  to  overcome  the  natural 
repugnance  to  them.  Hence  it  is  that  accidental 
poisoning  so  rarely  occurs. 

In  the  case  of  foods  we  soon  tire  of  a  thing  as  a 
regular  diet,  and  the  taste  craves  a  change.  Here  the 
whole  system  rebels  against  the  monotony  of  diet  be- 
cause no  one  food  is  likely  to  contain  all  the  elements  of 
nutrition  required  by  the  body  for  the  exercise  of  its 
functions,  and  soon  the  elements  which  are  in  excess 
cloy  upon  the  taste,  because  the  system  is  already  sup- 


34 


PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 


plied  with  them  while  we  crave  the  foods  containing 
substances  which  the  system  lacks.  A  change  is  then 
demanded  by  Nature,  and  made  manifest  by  the  sense  of 
taste. 

If  the  change  cannot  be  made,  Nature  shows  her  dis- 
approval by  causing  a  loss  of  appetite,  or  a  repugnance 
to  the  condemned  article  of  diet. 

Again,  in  the  case  of  foods  which  are  much  concen- 
trated, or  have  a  strong  flavour,  like  preserved  fruits  or 
syrups,  the  taste  soon  becomes  dulled  to  the  pleasure  of 
their  sweetness,  because  the  dehcate  nerves  which  con- 
vey the  impression  of  sweetness  to  the  brain  become 
fatigued,  and  fail  to  respond  to  the  exciting  cause. 


36 


PART     II. 


THE    COOK    AND    THE    KITCHEN 


The  word  "cook"  is  derived  from  the  Anglo-Saxon, 
coc.  Danish,  Kok ;  German,  Koch  ;  French,  cuisinier ; 
Italian,  cuoco  ;  and  Latin,  cocus,  coquus,  from  coquere, 
to  cook.  The  word  '*  cock"  has  also  the  same  deriva- 
tion in  Great  Britain,  coc  ;  and  in  France  also,  coq. 

In  Roman -Latin  the  Frenchman  ^  was  Gallus,  a 
Gaul,  and,  from  some  arrangement  peculiar  to  the 
Romans,  gallus  is  the  Latin  for  **  cock." 

The  cook  in  Plautus  is  called  "  Hominum  Serva- 
tor,"  the  server  of  mankind  ;  and  by  Mercier  "  un 
medecinqui  guerit  radicalement  deux  maladies  mortelles, 
la  faim  et  la  soif  "  (a  doctor  who  radically  cures  two 
mortal  complaints,  viz.  hunger  and  thirst). 

In  William  the  Norman  Conqueror's  time  the  cook 
was  styled  "  Magnus  Coquus."  In  1248  the  brother 
of  Cardinal  Otto,  the  Pope's  legate,  officiated  as  cook, 
and  was  then  called"  Magister  Coquinus." 

In  the  times  of  our  forefathers,  cooks  were  thought 


36  PKACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

a  great  deal  more  of  than  they  are  now ;  the  rarity  of 
their  talents  was  so  well  understood  that,  besides  receiv- 
ing a  very  considerable  compensation,  they  were  titled 
"  Esquire  "  by  their  office. 

Their  important  posts  were  always  held  as  situations 
of  high  trust  and  confidence  ;  so  that  "  magni  coqui  " 
(master  kitcheners)  have  filled  positions  of  consider- 
able dignity,  in  their  time,  in  the  palaces  of  kings 
and  princes. 

William  the  Conqueror  bestowed  several  portions  of 
land  upon  these  highly  favoured  domestics,  the  Co- 
quorum  Praepositus  and  Coquus  Eegius.  Robert 
Argillon,  a  cook,  had  a  manor  bestowed  on  him  for  the 
services  he  rendered.  Domesday's  Book  refers  to  this 
honour  as  follows  : — 

**  Robert  Argillon  holdeth  one  carucate  of  land  in 
Addington  in  the  county  of  Surrey  by  the  service  of 
making  one  mess  in  an  earthen  pot  in  the  kitchen  of 
our  lord  the  King  on  the  day  of  his  coronation,  called 
'  de  la  groute,'  i.e.  a  kind  of  plum-porridge  or  water- 
gruel  with  plums  in  it.  This  dish  is  still  served  up  at 
the  royal  table  at  coronations  by  the  lord  of  the  said 
manor  of  Addington." 

At  the  coronation  of  King  George  IV.,  Court  of 
Claims,  July  12,  1820,  the  petition  of  the  Arch- 
bishop of  Canterbm'y,  which  was  presented  by  Sir  G. 
Nayler,  claiming  to  perform  the  service  of  presenting 
a  dish  of  ''de  la  groute  "  to  the  King  at  the  banquet, 
was  considered  by  the  Court,  and  decided  to  be  allowed. 


THE    COOK   AND    THE    KITCHEN  37 

One  of  the  great  triumphs  of  the  ancient  cooks  was 
to  serve  up  a  whole  pig,  boiled  on  one  side  and  roasted 
on  the  other.  The  guests  tried  m  vain  to  detect  the 
place  where  the  knife  had  separated  the  animal,  or  how 
it  was  contrived  to  stuff  it  with  an  olio  composed  of 
thrushes  and  other  birds,  slices  of  sow,  hens,  and  highly 
spiced  minced  meat,  the  whole  flavoured  with  a  rich 
juice  or  sauce. 

These  old  cooks  could  with  a  vegetable  counterfeit 
the  taste  of  fish  or  flesh. 

It  is  reported  that  in  an  expedition  against  the 
Scythians  in  the  winter,  and  at  a  great  distance  from 
the  sea,  the  King  of  Bithynia  had  a  violent  longing  for 
a  pilchard.  His  cook  cut  a  turnip  in  exact  imitation  of 
its  shape,  then  fried  it  in  oil,  salted  and  well  powdered 
it  with  the  grains  of  a  dozen  black  poppies,  and  his 
Majesty's  taste  was  so  exquisitely  deceived  that  he 
praised  the  root  to  his  guests  as  an  excellent  fish. 

This  seeming  transmutation  of  vegetables  into  fish 
is  a  great  art,  but  in  these  days  it  appears  to  have  gone 
out  of  practice ;  it  might  with  advantage  be  revived, 
especially  in  countries  where  much  cheap  and  wholesome 
food  is  lost  or  wasted,  because  an  adequate  knowledge 
of  cookery  is  wanting. 

The  ancient  cooks  sent  almost  to  the  ends  of  the 
earth  for  choice  viands  which  were  not  obtainable  at 
home.  Those  of  Athens,  for  instance,  procured  from 
England  their  oysters,  of  which  the  finest  came  from 
the   neighbourhood    of    Sandwich.      Juvenal     records 


38  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

that  the  epicure  Montaniis  could  tell  by  his  first  bite  at 
an  oyster  whether  it  was  English  or  not. 

"  Man  is  a  cooking  animal."  Such  was  the  defini- 
tion of  the  human  species  which  Boswell  on  a  certain 
occasion  gave  to  Edwin  Burke. 

'*  The  beasts,"  continued  Boswell,  "■  have  memory, 
judgment,  and  all  the  faculties  and  passions  of  our 
own  mind  in  a  certain  degree,  but  no  beast  is  a  cook." 

Would  that  we  could  supplement  that  dictum  of  old 
Dr.  Johnson's  trumpeter  by  saying  that  the  reverse 
holds  true.  But  what  man  is  there  who  can  lay  his 
hand  on  his  heart  and  solemnly  declare  that  something 
in  the  above  is  not  true  ?  What  one  of  us  is  there  who 
has  not  had  cause  to  anathematise  his  cook,  and  in  a 
moment  of  righteous  wrath  felt  a  fiendish  desire  to 
inflict  upon  that  functionary  the  doom  of  Richard  Rose, 
the  Bishop  of  Rochester's  murderous  cook,  who  was 
"  boiled  "  to  death  at  Smithfield  ? 

Who  shall  say  what  stupendous  issues  in  the  world's 
history  have  not  turned  upon  good  or  bad  cookery? 
Most  of  us  have  heard  of  the  famous  black  broth  of 
Sparta,  but  few  know,  or  are  familiar  with,  its  origin. 
"  I  am  not  astonished,"  exclaimed  a  native  of  Sybaris 
(the  Pares  of  the  Greek  gourmand),  after  tasting  it, 
"  that  you  Spartans  are  so  fearless  of  death  on  the 
battle-field,  since  anyone  in  his  senses  would  rather 
die  than  be  compelled  to  live  on  such  execrable  food." 
Bad  cooking,  then,  may  have  been  responsible  for  the 
Spartan  courage. 


THE    COOK   AND    THE    KITCHEN  39 

Look,  again,  at  Napoleon  the  Great.  When  he 
fought  the  disastrous  battle  of  Leipsic  he  was  suf- 
fering frightfully  from  indigestion  caused  by  eating 
underdone  meat  (veal  cutlets).  Had  those  cutlets 
been  properly  cooked,  who  knows  but  the  issue  of 
that  three  days'  fight  might  have  been  different  ? 

This  surely  gives  us  sufficient  reason  for  saying 
that  bad  cooking  has  had  something  to  do  in 
bringmg  about  the  collapse  of  the  terrible  bogey 
of  Europe  at  that  time.  It  is  a  most  serious  thing 
to  reflect  upon  this,  for  good  and  evil  lie  in  the  hands 
of  a  cook ! 

There  are,  I  fear,  but  few  so  conscientious  as  poor 
Vatel,  the  chef  of  the  Prince  de  Conde,  who  ran  him- 
self through  the  heart  with  his  sword  because  the  fish 
had  not  arrived  in  time  for  a  great  banquet,  at  which 
Louis  XIV.,  le  Grand  Monarque  himself,  was  to  be 
present. 

On  the  "Manuel  des  Amphitryons  "  Grimod  de  la 
Reyni^re  observes  compassionately  that  we  enjoy  the 
result  of  the  works  of  our  cooks,  without  considering 
the  cost  of  the  ineffable  enjoyment  they  procure  for  us, 
and  without  reflecting  that  they  only  derive,  from  their 
incessant  exertions,  impaired  health  and  means  of  sub- 
sistence that  are  often  precarious  and  often  moderate. 
"They  spend  their  best  days  in  heat  and  obscurity, 
and  their  last  in  poverty  too  often  bordering  on 
destitution." 

"  A  good  meal  is  one  of  the  greatest  enjoyments  of 


40  PEACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

human  life,"  and  greater  regard  for  those  who  prepare 
them  ought,  in  many  cases,  to  be  shown ;  as  the  practice 
of  cooking  is  attended  with  so  many  difficulties,  so 
many  disagreeable  circumstances,  and  even  dangers,  it 
is  but  right  that  we  should  endeavour  to  render  the 
situation  of  the  cook  as  comfortable  and  agreeable  as 
possible. 

The  chef,  to  whom  the  management  of  the  kitchen 
is  confided,  is  a  great  power  in  the  house,  for  no  one 
can  be  more  instrumental  to  make  the  reputation  of  a 
house  than  the  chef.  He  should  be  the  ideal  of  per- 
fection to  the  other  servants,  who,  after  the  manner  of 
other  employees,  are  more  steadily  praised  into  good 
conduct  and  discipline  than  scolded  at.  The  chef 
should  always  commend  his  staff  when  they  do  well. 
Judicious  approval  will  often  convert  an  ordinary 
servant  into  a  good  one. 

How  much  force  there  is  in  the  old  couplet — 

"Be  to  their  faults  a  little  blmd, 
And  to  their  virtues  very  kind." 

It  is  always  wisest  for  a  cook,  man  or  woman,  to  be 
on  pleasant  terms  with  the  servants  of  an  establish- 
ment, especially  with  those  who  wait  at  table,  as  this 
will  often  help  to  please  the  diner,  as  he  will  know 
what  dishes  are  liked,  and  whether  the  work  has  pleased 
in  the  dining-room.  There  are  many  who  have  the 
supervision  of  waiting  who  frequently  have  it  in  their 
power,  not  only  to  contribute  much  towards  the  satis- 
faction of  the  guests,  but  also  to  contribute  to  the 
cook's  ideas,  who  is  often  at  a  loss  as  to  how  he  can 


THE    COOK   AND    THE    KITCHEN  41 

please  them.     No  cook  should  ever  think  any  part  of 
his  business  too  trifling  to  be  well  done. 

Although  no  one  has  ever  succeeded  in  pleasing  all 
palates,  because  the  tastes  are  almost  as  different  as 
faces,  yet  palates  must  be  studied  by  the  cook,  and  if 
he  be  industrious  and  energetic  he  will  with  tact  soon 
acquire  a  knowledge  of  the  particular  tastes  of  his 
patrons. 

The  palate  of  a  cook  must  be  in  the  highest  state 
of  perfection,  so  that  the  least  fault  in  cooking  may  be 
perceived  in  a  moment. 

To  succeed  as  some  of  our  great  chefs  have  suc- 
ceeded, a  cook  must  not  only  be  a  cook,  he  must  be  a 
draughtsman,  a  sculptor,  and  a  colourist ;  and  the  time 
and  taste  which  a  cook  spends  on  the  arts  of  design 
to  prepare  food  for  the  eye  are  so  much  time  and 
taste  diverted  from  the  more  important  business  of 
preparing  food  for  the  mouth. 

The  most  experienced  artists  in  cookery  cannot  be 
certain  of  their  work  without  "  tasting."  The  spoon  of 
a  good  cook  is  continually  passing  from  the  stewpan  to 
his  tongue,  and  only  frequent  tasting  the  sauces  &c. 
can  discover  to  him  what  progress  he  makes,  or  enable 
him  to  season  a  soup  or  ragout  with  certainty  of 
success. 

The  constant  fumes  and  heat  of  the  stove  neces- 
sitate frequent  drinking  to  moisten  the  parched-up 
throat ;  and  this  is  done  in  most  cases  with  the  aid  of 
alcoholic  drinks,  which  often  cause  a  man  to  lose  his 
head,   and,  alas  !  his  taste,   the   organs  of   which  are 


42  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

thus  quickly  vitiated,  and  the  palate  becomes  blunt. 
It  cannot  be  too  strongly  advised  to  every  cook  to 
abstain  while  he  is  at  work  from  drinks  which  are 
excitable ;  there  are  so  many  harmless  drinks,  such  as 
lemonade,  gingerbeer,  soda  and  milk,  cold  tea,  coffee 
TN-ith  milk,  syrups  with  water,  &c.,  which  will  quench 
the  thirst  in  a  hot  kitchen,  so  that  one  need  not  avail 
himself  of  intoxicants.  Common  beer  quenches  the 
thirst  only  momentarily,  and  will  soon  give  rise  to  a 
craving  for  more.  Claret,  although  an  intoxicant,  is 
considered  the  best  drink  of  any  to  allay  thirst,  but  it 
must  be  mixed  with  plenty  of  water,  when  it  is 
practically  unintoxicating. 

Honesty,  cleanliness,  and  economy  should  be  the 
first  items  of  a  cook's  study.  It  is  of  the  utmost  im- 
portance in  a  cook  to  be  honest  ;  and  to  obtain  and 
preserve,  in  spite  of  the  many  temptations  to  which 
he  is  exposed,  a  character  for  firmness  and  spotless 
integrity,  for  this  will  help  towards  obtaining  inde- 
pendence. "  Cleanliness  is  next  to  godUness "  is  a 
very  old  saying,  and  cannot  be  more  appropriately 
apphed  than  here.  Cleanliness  and  proper  ventilation, 
to  carry  off  smoke,  smell,  and  steam,  are  the  first  con- 
siderations in  a  kitchen.  The  stove,  which  is,  so  to 
speak,  the  grand  scene  of  action,  should  be  so  placed  as 
to  be  accessible  to  light  and  ventilation.  There  are, 
however,  many  kitchens  where  such  is  not  the  case,  and 
the  poor  cook  is  continually  bathed  with  his,  or  her, 
perspiration.  No  place  has  a  greater  need  for  cleanUness 
than  the  kitchen  :  it  is  here  that  dirt  and  untidiness 


THE    COOK   AND    THE    KITCHEN  43 

are  much  more  conspicuous  than  in  any  other  part  of 
an  estabhshment.  Cleanliness  is  the  most  essential 
ingredient  in  the  art  of  cooking,  and  at  any  sacrifice 
should  be  maintained  in  the  kitchen. 

All  connected  with  cookery  should  make  it  the  rule 
to  be  economical,  to  endeavour  to  make  the  most  of 
everything.  There  is  perhaps  no  country  where  the 
study  of  economy  in  the  kitchen  is  more  needed  than 
in  England.  Here  we  must  take  the  French  for  our 
example.  A  French  housewife  will,  say,  with  40  francs 
be  able  to  supply  the  table  for  a  week  with  every 
comfort  and  luxury,  and  in  addition  save  something  out 
of  the  40  francs,  whilst  the  English  housewife  will 
hardly  meet  the  wants  with  40  shillings  a  week  for 
meals  of  the  plainest  kind.  The  better  a  cook  the 
more  economy  he  will  practise  :  this  is  one  reason  why 
there  is  more  waste  among  the  poor  and  middle  classes, 
where  the  cooking  is  done  by  so-called  plain  cooks,  who 
are  ignorant  of  the  art  of  cookery.  These  will  throw 
away  what  an  educated  cook  will  turn  into  a  seasonable 
dish.  Time,  however,  will  mend  these  wants,  for 
already  the  schools  have  taken  up  the  education  of 
cookery,  so  that  ere  long  children  will  learn  as  a  part  of 
their  elementary  education  how  to  cook  with  economy. 
A  little  forethought  in  these  matters  will  soon  show  the 
real  meaning  of  economy.  Scraps  of  meat  or  fish,  fag- 
ends  of  bacon,  so  often  wasted,  with  a  little  judicious 
management  make,  when  re-dressed  in  a  different  form 
to  what  they  were  first  served,  tasty  little  dishes,  which 
improve  the  appearance  of  the  table  with  very  little 
extra  cost.  3 


44  PRACTICAL    GASTEONOMY 

Every  cook  has  his  own  style  of  preparing  and 
dressing  a  dinner.  Some  will  study  the  elegance  of 
dishing  up,  to  the  detriment  of  the  modes  of  prepara- 
tion ;  whilst  others,  on  the  contrary,  will  aim  at  refining 
the  preparation,  and  thhik  little  of  the  elegance.  Both 
are  wrong.  A  good  dish  must  be  presented  in  an 
attractive  form ;  but  there  is  excess  in  everything, 
and  too  much  art  m  cooking  may  be  as  fatal  as  too 
little. 

An  ingenious  cook  may  form  varieties  as  endless  as 
a  musician  with  his  instrument  or  as  a  painter  with  his 

colours. 

The  study  of  cookery  books,  their  rules  and  recipes, 
are  of  little  use  unless  the  practising  party  has  the 
natural  gift  for  perfect  cookery.  To  arrive  at  perfection 
in  culinary  art  means  to  be  able  to  make  a  perfect 
sauce,  and  a  cook  who  is  proficient  in  sauce-making 
must  possess  the  most  delicate  skill  for  roasting.  To 
merely  make  up  a  dish  from  a  recipe  is  in  comparison 
like  dispensing  from  a  prescription.  The  chemist,  like 
the  cook,  will  weigh  or  measure  every  ingredient  em- 
ployed, with  the  exception  that  the  former  rarely  or 
never  tastes  his  preparations,  whilst  the  latter  must 
taste,  and  possess  that  power  of  judging  of,  say,  a  sauce 
which  requires  reducing  where  the  flavour  increases  as 
the  sauce  simmers  away. 

It  would  be  blind  work  indeed  for  a  cook  to  do 
without  tasting  ;  the  very  best  soups  would  be  quite 
flavourless  if  the  seasonings  were  omitted.  Seasoning 
in   cookery  is   what   chords   are   in   music ;    the   best 


THE    COOK   AND    THE    KITCHEN  45 

instruments  in  the  hands  of  the  best  professors  without 
their  being  in  tune  would  be  insipid. 

A  good  cook,  besides  being  versed  in  the  technique 
of  the  kitchen,  should  also  be  a  good  judge  of  the 
kinds,  qualities,  and  uses  of  every  dietary  article.  The 
old  Greek  comic  poet  Dionysius  says  : — 

"To  roast  some  beef,  to  carve  with  neatness, 
To  boil  up  sauces,  and  to  blow  the  fire, 
Is  anybody's  task  ;  he  who  does  this 
Is  but  a  seasoner  and  a  broth-maker. 
A  cook  is  quite  another  thing.     His  mind 
Must  comprehend  all  facts  and  circumstances, 
Where  is  the  place,  and  what  the  time  of  supper  ; 
Who  are  the  guests,  and  who  the  entertainer  ; 
What  fish  he  ought  to  buy,  and  where  he  ought  to 
buy  it,"  etc. 

"A  cook  can  be  made,  whilst  a  roaster  is  born." 
These  were  the  words  of  Brillat-Savarin.  There  is 
much  reason  in  this  argument,  for  it  is  an  art  indeed  to 
possess  the  qualification  of  an  artist  in  cookery.  It  is 
easier  to  compose  an  operatic  piece  than  to  invent  a  new 
dish,  and  even  man  who  has  the  natural  endowments 
would  find  it  more  easy  to  qualify  himself  to  compete 
with  the  Royal  Academicians  than  with  the  chief 
operators  in  cookery. 

In  confirming  these  facts  we  cannot  do  better  than 
follow  the  quotations  of  the  Marquis  de  Cussy,  who  re- 
modelled the  aphorism  of  Brillat-Savarin,  thus  : — 

"  On  devient  cuisinier  ; 
On  devient  rotisseur 
On  nait  saucier." 


46  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

On  following  closely  these  words  we  come  to  the 
conclusion,  and  not  without  reasons,  "that  one  can 
learn  to  cook  and  be  taught  to  roast ;  but  to  become  a 
saucier  needs  the  gift  of  a  genius." 

The  cook  is  our  best  friend  during  his  active  life, 
but  how  soon  is  he  forgotten  when  he  can  no  longer 
cater  for  our  gastronomic  pleasures  !  But  a  different 
era  to  that  is  coming  soon ;  cooks  will  then  no  longer 
be  ranked  as  "  mere  cooks  "  amongst  their  entrees  and 
souffles,  for  cooking  has  been  raised  to  the  degree  of  a 
fine  art,  and  if  not  now,  yet  soon  it  will  be  seen  that 
cooks  in  England  as  well  as  other  countries  will  be 
recognised  as  somethmg  infinitely  superior  to  an  upper 
servant.  There  are  already  many  names  which  crop  up 
for  us  in  spiritual  array  of  their  aristocracy  of  cooking 
who  have  made  and  are  making  at  present  their  infiuence 
felt  to  the  exaltation  of  the  art,  fo^  by  that  very  force 
and  power  of  making  itself  felt  that  the  real  art  has 
possessed,  even  amongst  those  who  pretend  to  know,  but 
do  not,  the  art  of  cooking  will  take  a  higher  standard  so 
rapidly  as  its  pupils  are  raised  with  it. 

Careme,  Soyer,  Ude,  Vatel,  Urbain  Dubois,  Emile 
Bernard,  Francatelli,  Gouffe,  Vassant,  Tavenet,  and 
others  have  all  spoken  out ;  but  most  of  what  they 
have  said  on  this  subject  has  been  disregarded  because 
their  fellows  in  the  art  of  cookery  regarded  them  as 
premature  when  they  were  merely  learned  members  of 
the  profession. 

The  cooks  of  the  present  day  have  a  glorious  task 


THE    COOK   AND    THE    KITCHEN  47 

before  them ;  it  is  to  make  their  art  and  profession  felt, 
respected,  and  ennobled  by  the  power  of  skill  and  care 
they  will  devote  to  its  development.  Colleges  of  cookery 
have  of  late  been  established  in  France  and  Switzerland, 
and  such  institutions  are  sure  to  follow  in  England, 
America,  and  other  countries ;  it  is  therefore  no  idle 
dream  to  believe  that  the  time  is  not  far  distant  when 
the  cook  shall  be  personally  as  highly  appreciated  and 
valued  as  the  dishes  he  prepares. 


The  Eariy  Use  of  the  Word  '*  Kitchen." 

The  etymology  of  "kitchen"  is  rather  mixed: 
in  French  it  is  cuisine ;  Italian,  cucina ;  in  Latin, 
coquina ;  and  in  German  Kilche.  We  find  that  in 
Saxon  it  is  cycane ;  in  Welsh,  cequin ;  in  Danish, 
Kicekhen;  and  in  Scotch,  kyshen.  Hence  the  names 
in  German,  Saxon,  Danish,  and  Scotch  resemble 
more  the  homely  English  word  of  "kitchen."  The 
word  itself  seems  to  be  in  English  an  adaptation 
of  the  Latin  coqtdna  :  it  denotes  the  place  where  food 
is  cooked.  Some  of  our  ancient  authors  refer  to  the 
word  "  kitchen  "  at  very  early  dates.     Thus  Aristotle, 


48  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

in  B.C.  329,  writes  :  "  It  is  less  a  rebuke  for  a  man  to 
be  busy  to  know  what  is  done  in  his  kitchen  than 
for  a  woman  to  know  what  is  done  without  her  house." 
Then,  again,  in  1590,  Spencer  says  : — 

* 'They  both  attone. 
Did  outie  to  their  lady  as  became, 
Who  passing  byforth  led  her  guests  anone 
Unto  the  kitchen  roome,  ne  spared  for  nicenesse  none." 

In  the  poem  of  "  Piers  the  Ploughman  "  there  is  the 
following  passage :  "  Ich  be  cook  in  here  kitchen." 
Geoffrey  Chaucer,  who  lived  in  the  14th  century,  writing 
in  "  The  Wyf  of  Bathe's  Tale,"  speaks  of  "  blessing 
halles,  chambers,  kitchens  and  boures,  cities  and  burghs, 
castels  hihe  and  toures." 

Shakespeare  writes  is  his  "  Comedy  of  Errors  "  : — 

*'  There  is  a  fat  frind  at  your  master's  house  that 
kitchen'd  me  for  you  to-day  at  dinner,  "j 

Some  of  the  culinary  affairs  of  yore  disclose  most 
en^dous  facts  in  connection  with  cooks  and  kitchens ;  for 
instance,  there  is  a  book  mth  the  kitchens  of  the  olden 
time,  strange  tricks  and  fancies,  called  "  Porta's  Natural 
Magicke."  It  gives  directions  as  to  the  ways  of  roasting 
and  boiling  a  fowl  at  the  same  time,  so  that  one  half 
shall  be  roasted  and  the  other  boiled,  and  concludes 
that,  should  you  have  a  lack  of  cooks,  there  is  a  way 
of  persuading  a  goose — how  to  roast  himself. 


THE    EARLY   USE   OF    THE    WORD    "KITCHEN 


49 


Here  is  a  recipe  to  make  a  *•  Sauce  for  a  Goose," 
A.D.  1381  :  "  Take  a  faire  panne,  and  set  him  under  the 
goose  whill  she  rostes :  and  kepeclane  the  grese  that 
droppes  thereof,  and  put  therto  a  godele  [good  deal]  of 
Wyn,  and  a  litel  \dnegur,  and  verjus,  and  onyons 
mynced  or  garleek,  then  take  the  gottes  of  the  goose 
and  slitt  horn,  and  scrape  horn  alone  in  water  and  salt, 
and  so  wash  horn,  and  hack  horn  small,  then  do  all 
this  to  gadur  in  a  piffenet  and  do  thereto  raisinges  and 
corance,  pouder  of  pepur  and  of  ginger  and  of  canell, 
and  hole  clowes  and  maces,  and  let  hit  boyle  and  serve 
hit  forthe." 


50  PEACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

The  Cook  in  Proverb. 

1.  The  cook  is  worth  as  much  as  the  waiter. 

2.  A  strange  cook  makes  good  soups. 

3.  Even  the  best  cook's  soups  may  burn  sometimes. 

4.  It  is  a  sad  sign  of  the  cook  who  first  seeks  his  spoon 

when  the  pot  is  boiling  over. 

5.  The  cleverest  cook  cannot  make  a  good  soup  from 

water  alone. 

6.  The  cook  is  the  best  doctor. 

7.  The  cook  must  know  everybody's  tastes. 

8.  A  good  cook  has,  as  a  rule,  more  fat  on  his  hands 

than  hi  his  stomach. 

9.  The  cook  is  badly  off  who  cannot  lick  his  fingers. 

10.  A  good  cook  in  a  kitchen  is  worth  as  much  as  a  good 

jockey  on  his  horse. 

11.  A  good  cook  does  not  boil  chickens  immediately  after 

they  are  picked. 

12.  Not  all  who  have  a  large  spoon  in  their  hands  are 

cooks. 

13.  The  more  cooks,  the  worse  the  broth. 

14.  Few  cooks  will  praise  the  other  high. 

15.  Cook  and  waiter  make  good  godfathers. 

16.  When  cooks  are  quarrelling,  the  soups  and  roast  are 

generally  failm-es. 

17.  When  a  cook  revenges  himself  on  his  master,  the 

cooking  is  sure  to  suffer. 

18.  As  the  cook,  so  is  the  kitchen. 


51 


'^m 


THE  TEN  CARDINAL  VIRTUES 

For  the  Professional  Cooh. 

1.  ^n  mtelltgeitt  linotoUtige  of  x^z  art  antr 

science  of  cookrg. 

2.  ^  correct  f utigment  in  tfie  materials  requiretr 

for  coolking. 

3.  Untiring  intiustrg. 

4.  Scrupulous  cleanliness  antJ  exactitutie. 
6.  OTise  economy. 

6.  ^cuteness  of  perception  of  palatableness. 

7.  ^  jubicious  appropriation  of  commotiities. 

8.  Sobrietp. 

9.  I^onestp* 

10.  Jnbariable  stutig  of  tbe  master's  interest. 


)tv- 


52  PEACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 


Gastronomy  in  the  Form  of  an  Aphorism.* 

"  The  world  is  nothing  without  the  life,  and  all  that 
lives  requires  nourishment." 

**  Animals  devour,  the  man  eats  ;  the  educated  man 
alone  eats  with  consciousness." 

"  The  fate  of  the  nations  depends  upon  their  food." 

'^  Tell  me  what  you  eat,  and  I  will  tell  you  who  you 
are." 

"  The  Creator  has  imposed  the  obUgation  of  eating 
to  human  beings  to  enable  them  to  Uve  ;  thus  are  we 
invited  through  the  appetite  and  rewarded  by  the 
enjoyment  of  taste." 

"  To  be  a  gourmet  or  epicure  means  to  intimate 
the  faculty  of  judging  in  eating,  by  which  pleasant- 
tasting  dishes  obtain  the  preference  to  others  which  do 
not  possess  that  peculiar  qualification." 

"  The  delight  of  the  dining-table  appertains  to  all 
ages,  positions,  all  nations,  and  all  the  days  of  the 
year,  and  will  remain  thus  until  the  end,  in  order  to 
comfort  and  console  us  for  the  loss  of  the  less  needful 
pleasures." 

*Translation  from  Brillat-Savarin'   Physiologie  du  Go'&t. 


GASTRONOMY   IN   THE   FORM   OF   AN   APHORISM     63 

"  The  dinner-table  is  the  only  place  where  one  does 
not  feel  weary  during  the  first  hour." 

"  May  we  be  satisfied  with  the  happiness  we  have  if 
we  cannot  obtain  the  pleasure  we  want." 

"The  discovery  of  a  new  dish  is  far  more  important 
to  humanity  than  the  discovery  of  a  new  star." 

"  The  glutton  and  drunkard  do  not  know  the  mean- 
ing of  eating  and  drinking." 

"  The  classification  of  eating  goes  from  heaviness  to 
lightness." 

"  The  order  of  drinking  goes  from  the  light  to 
heavy." 

"  It  is  heresy  to  assert  that  it  is  wrong  to  change 
wines  ;  the  tongue  is  satisfied  with  the  third  glass,  but 
after  the  third  glass  the  taste  for  wine  is  blunted." 

"A  dessert  without  cheese  is  like  a  girl  without 
eyes." 

"  Punctuality  is  an  indispensable  quality  of  a  cook, 
and  should  be  sacred  to  the  guests." 

"  To  wait  long  for  a  delayed  guest  is  an  o£fence  to 
those  who  arrived  in  good  time." 

"  To  wait  long  for  a  late  coming  guest  means  rude- 
ness to  the  others  who  wait  for  his  sake." 

"Those  who  receive  friends  without  having  pre- 
viously provided  for  their  meal  do  not  deserve  to  have 
friends." 


54  PBACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

"  A  housewife  should  be  proud  of  her  cookery,  or,  if 
she  feels  that  her  skill  is  not  sufficiently  perfect  to 
justify  pride,  she  should  make  it  her  duty  to  study  and 
make  it  so." 

"  The  meaning  of  inviting  anyone  is  to  look  and 
care  for  their  happiness  and  welfare  whilst  they  remain 
under  your  roof." 


Brillat-Savarin's  Maxims. 

SEASONABLE     SUGGESTIONS     IN     "THE     DECALOGUE     OP 
GASTRONOMY  "    PUT    INTO   RHYME. 

I. 

Were  there  no  life,  the  universe  were  naught ; 
Life  to  sustain,  apt  food  must  still  be  sought. 

II. 

Beasts  feed,  man  eats  ;  the  man  of  cultured  sense 
Alone  gives  eating  its  due  eminence  ! 

III. 

The  fate  of  nations  on  their  food  depends  ! 

IV. 

Say  what  you  eat — I'll  know  your  tastes  and  friends 


brillat-savakin's  maxims  55 

V. 

Nature  compels  us  all  to  take  a  bite, 

But  softens  with  the  bait  of  appetite 

Her  iron  rule  ;  obedience  she  rewards 

With  pleasures  only  known  at  dainty  boards  ! 

VI. 

Good  livers  show  their  judgment  in  their  food. 
Why  not  prefer  that  which  our  taste  finds  good  ? 

VII. 

All  ages,  ranks,  and  climes  enjoy  good  cheer — 
A  recompense  for  other  goods  not  here  ! 

VIII. 

The  first  long  hour  is  doubly  drear,  except 
At  tables  where  a  knowing  chef  is  kept ! 

IX. 

Who  finds  a  planet  out,  his  race  may  wish 

To  serve.     He  serves  them  who  finds  out  a  dish. 

X. 

A  drunkard  knows  not  how  to  drink  ;  'tis  meet 
To  say  a  glutton  knows  not  how  to  eat ! 

XI. 

First  solid  foods — then  the  more  delicate ! 


56  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

XII. 

Mild  wines  the  first ;  the  heady  should  come  late  ! 

XIII. 

To  the  cloy'd  palate's  taste  no  liquor's  fine  ; 
So,  after  several  glasses,  change  your  wine  ! 

XIV. 

Without  the  cheese,  the  dinner's  final  course  J 
Is  like  a  one-eyed  beauty,  if  not  worse  ! 

XV. 

Cooking's  an  art,  but  genius  rules  the  roast. 

XVI. 

Promptitude  cooks  and  guests  alike  should  boast 

XVII. 

Because  one  guest  is  late,  'tis  rude  to  make 
The  others  wait  their  dinners  for  his  sake  ! 

XVIII. 

To  an  ungarnished  board  who  bids  his  guest 
His  friendship  puts  to  an  inhuman  test ! 

XIX. 

Post-prandial  coffee  tests  the  hostess'  skill — 
The  pousse-caf e  the  host's  good  taste  and  will ! 

XX. 

Once  in  the  threshold,  every  guest  should  boast 
A  buffer  'gainst  all  evils  in  his    -  host ! 


3' 


BI^ILLAT-SA\^\r^lN      ^^)v 
•1755-1826- .  ^ 


57 


Maxims  for  the  Kitchen. 


A  good  cook  is  a  jewel  of  priceless  value. 

A  good  cook  is  known  by  her  boiled  potatoes. 

Abolish  the  frying  pan  for  cooking  meat. 

Don't  fly  at  too  high  game. 

Better  one  good  dish  than  several  badly  cooked 
ones. 

In  cooking  a  joint  remember  the  main  thing  is  to 
keep  the  juices  as  much  as  possible  in  the  meat. 

Try  to  please  the  eye  as  well  as  the  taste. 

The  purpose  of  good  cooking  is  not  so  much  to  gratify 
the  palate  as  to  aid  the  digestion. 

Badly  cooked  meals  are  the  source  of  many  dis- 
eases. 

A  well-cooked  dinner  will  save  many  a  matrimonial 
jar. 

To  know  only  a  "  little  "  of  cookery  is  a  dangerous 
thing. 

There  are  scientific  principles  underlying  the  art  of 
cookery  which  must  be  mastered  before  a  cook  really 
knows  his  business. 

When  the  first  principles  of  cookery  are  once 
mastered,  the  cook  will  be  able  to  evolve  his  own 
conclusions. 


58  PBACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

"  A  maxim,  too,  that  must  not  be  forgot : 
Whatever  be  your  dinner,  '  serve  it  hot.* 
Your  fine  ragouts,  like  epigrams,  require 
A  little  salt,  but  to  be  full  of  fire  !  " 

{The  Banquet.) 

"  Three  dishes  well  dressed,  and  welcome  with  all. 
Both  pleaseth  thy  friend,  and  becometh  thine  hall." 

{Thojiias  Tusser,  1557.) 


Eating  and  Drinking  among  the  Turks 

The  Turkish  cuisine  must  be  tasted  to  be  appreciated. 
The  basis  of  all  culinary  operations  in  Stamboul  is  a 
certain  kind  of  tallow  extracted  from  the  broad  and 
thick  extremity  of  the  Caraman  sheep.  This  tallow  has 
an  odour  so  potent  that  we  would  not  use  it  even  for 
candles.  The  Turks  are  essentially  vegetarians.  They 
eat  beef  very  rarely,  and  never  pork  or  veal.  They  in- 
dulge in  ducks,  lean  fowls,  and  fiUany  sheep,  the  flesh 
of  which  they  cut  off  in  small  pieces.  These  pieces  are 
strung  upon  long  spits,  which  are  held  and  turned  for 
some  minutes  over  hot  coals,  where  they  are  slowly 
roasted,  retaining  all  their  juices.  This  is  what  is  called 
kebab y  a  healthful  and  nutritious  food  which  Europeans 


EATING    AND    DEINKING    AMONG    THE    TURKS        59 

find  delicious.  Turkish  pastry  is  quite  varied,  and 
would  not  be  disagreeable  if  honey  and  sugar  were  not 
used  so  abundantly,  and  if  the  taste  of  tallow  could  be 
excluded.  Bahalava  and  ehmek  kataif  (thick  cakes  in 
honey,  perfumed  with  rose-water  and  covered  with 
caimak,  a  kind  of  cream),  in  particular,  recall  very 
savoury  memories.  Pachas  and  rich  Turks  always 
have  at  their  repasts  a  great  number  of  dishes,  which 
the  servants  bring  in  on  brass  platters,  and  place  on  the 
mat  on  the  floor,  or  sometimes  on  small  low  tables 
around  which  the  guests  squat.  They  eat  in  a  grave 
manner,  and  help  themselves  generally  with  their 
fingers  as  well  as  with  forks,  and  with  their  teeth  as 
well  as  with  their  knives.  Nevertheless,  they  deign  to 
use  a  spoon  to  convey  to  their  mouths  food  that  is  not 
very  solid,  like  stewed  rice,  malehy  (a  kind  of  cooked 
cream),  and  iaourt  (thick  and  bitterish  milk),  all  of  which 
they  are  very  fond  of.  Their  drink  consists  of  clear 
water,  but  this  does  not  prevent  them  from  imbibing 
before  their  repast  a  white  liquor,  raki,  which  is  made 
of  the  gum  of  the  mastic-tree  mixed  with  alcohol.  It 
is  an  agreeable  drink,  but  it  is  used  like  absinthe,  the 
taste  and  properties  of  which  it  possesses.  Its  use,  and 
even  its  abuse,  does  not  bring  remorse  to  the  conscience 
of  the  Turks,  for  Mohammed  has  forbidden  them  to  use 
wine,  but  he  forgot,  prophet  though  he  was,  to  foresee 
the  manufacture  of  raki,  an  invention  more  modern  than 
his  own. 


60  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 


Chinese  Diet  and  Custom. 

If  a  visitor  is  invited  to  dinner  in  China,  custom 
orders  that  when  the  invitation  is  given  he  shall  receive 
from  the  host  certain  advice  as  to  conduct,  such  as — 
**  Do  not  eat  with  noise  ;  do  not  crunch  the  bones  with 
your  teeth,  nor  drink  down  the  sauces  at  a  gulp."  This 
is  said  seriously,  and  seriously  received. 

If  the  master  of  the  house  is  a  person  of  importance, 
and  offers  to  his  guest  fruit  with  stones  or  pips,  such  as 
peaches  or  oranges,  the  guest  must  put  the  pips  in  his 
pocket,  in  order  not  to  appear  to  refuse  anything  the 
host  is  good  enough  to  offer.  If  a  melon  is  served,  the 
manner  of  cutting  it  depends  upon  the  caste  to  which 
the  cutter  belongs. 

Sentiments  are  regulated  by  custom  as  well  as 
expression.  Thus,  if  in  the  course  of  a  visit  refresh- 
ments are  offered  to  the  guest,  he  must  drink  the  first 
cup  "  with  an  air  of  profound  thought,"  the  second 
"  with  a  satisfied  expression." 

A  member  of  a  Bremen  trading  house  lately  had  the 
honour  of  taking  dinner  with  a  Chinese  magnate  in 
Pekin,  and  has  given  the  following  appetising  descrip- 
tion of  the  feast.  The  table  was  set  with  twenty-two 
dishes,  and  was  lit  with  ten  large  lanterns,  the  light  of 
which  shone  clear  through  brightly  coloured  shades  and 


CHINESE  DIET  AND  CUSTOM  61 

ornaments.  Instead  of  being  served  in  courses,  the 
dishes  were  brought  in  one  at  a  time  and  passed  to  the 
guests  severally,  beginning  with  the  most  distinguished. 
His  comments  are  as  follows  : — 

1.  Doves  with  mushrooms  and  split  bamboo  sprouts. 
Delicious. 

2.  Fat  pork  fritters  or  something  like  fritters. 
Splendid. 

3.  Pigeons'  eggs  in  meat  broth,  the  whites  hard  but 
transparent.    Very  good. 

4.  Chinese  birds'  nests,  with  ham  chips  and  bam- 
boo sprouts  (a  mucilaginous  dish).     Excellent. 

5.  Poultry,  different  kinds,  cooked  with  mushrooms 
and  bamboo  sprouts.     Very  agreeable. 

6.  Duck,  with  bamboo  and  lotus  fruits,  the  fruits 
tasting  and  looking  like  an  acorn  without  its  cup.  Toler- 
ably good. 

7.  Hog's  liver  fried  in  castor  oil.     Bad. 

8.  A  Japanese  dish  of  mussels,  with  malodorous 
codfish  and  bacon.     Horrible. 

9.  Sea-crabs'  tails  cooked  in  castor  oil,  with  bits  of 
bamboo  and  ham.  Would  have  been  palatable  but  for 
the  wretched  oil. 

10.  A  star  made  of  pieces  of  fowl,  bacon,  and  dove, 
covered  with  white  of  egg.     Very  juicy. 


62  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

11.  Slices  of  sera-fish  and  sharks'  fins,  with  bamboo 
and  mushrooms.  It  was  hard  to  tell  what  kind  of  a 
dish  it  was,  but  it  was  rather  bad  than  good. 

12.  Giblets  of  poultry  with  morels.  The  morels 
helped  the  giblets  down. 

13.  Ham  and  cabbage.    Not  very  good. 

14.  Ham  of  sucking  pigs,  cooked  in  their  own  juice. 

A  pause  now  ensued,  during  which  pipes  and  tobacco 
were  brought  in.  The  pipes  held  about  a  thimbleful  of 
tobacco — enough  for  two  or  three  pufi's — and  we  were 
kept  busy  filling  and  lighting  them. 

15.  Land- turtles,  -vvdth  their  eggs,  in  castor  oil. 

16.  Ends  of  ham.     Good. 

17.  Breast  of  fowl,  with  sour  cabbage.    No  delicacy. 

18.  Stale  eggs  (these  eggs  had  been  kept  one  month 
in  salt  and  two  months  in  moist  earth).  The  whites 
looked  like  burned  sugar,  and  were  transparent.  The 
yolks  had  a  greenish  colour,  and  the  embryos  appeared 
dark,  rolled  together,  and  perfectly  recognisable. 

Dessert :  Conserve  of  sitzon,  a  red  fruit  that  looks 
like  a  shadberry,  and  tastes  like  a  currant.     Good. 

The  only  drink  was  tea,  very  weak  and  without 
sugar,  and  Jamion,  a  rice  wine,  which  is  drunk  hot  like 
tea,  and  is  wretched  stuff. 


63 


Culinary  Telephone. 


"  Do  everything  at  the  proper  time." 

"  Keep  everything  in  its  proper  place." 

"  Use  everything  for  its  proper  purpose." 

'*  Always  study  your  master's  interest,  place  yourself 
in  his  situation,  and  then  consider  what  you  would  expect 
from  him  if  he  were  in  yours." 

"  Strive  to  embrace  every  opportunity  of  learning 
anything  which  may  be  useful  to  yourself,  or  which  may 
be  beneficial  to  others." 

"  Never  think  any  Little  part  of  your  business  too 
trifling  to  be  well  done." 

"  Study  all  ways  of  economy,  and  endeavour  to  make 
the  most  of  everything." 

"  In  cooking  meat  do  not  throw  away  the  water,  as 
it  will  come  in  useful  for  stock,  for  soups  and  sauces." 

"  Remember  that  plated  dishes  and  coffee-pots  are 
injured  if  left  on  the  stove." 

"  Do  not  use  table-napkins  and  table-cloths  for  dish- 
cloths." 

"  Never  use  silver  spoons  for  scraping  kettles." 

"  See  that  the  kitchen  utensils  are  always  properly 
cleansed  and  dried." 

"  Do  not  allow  cream  to  mould  and  spoil." 


64  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

"  When  not  using  the  fire  do  not  forget  to  arrange 
dampers  so  as  not  to  burn  more  fuel  than  needed." 

"  Do  not  leave  the  lights  burning  when  not 
wanted." 

"  Do  not  let  fruit  decay  for  the  want  of  '  sorting 
over.'  " 

"  Save  the  bones  of  meat  and  the  carcasses  of  poultry, 
as  they  can  be  used  in  making  good  soups." 

"  Take  care  of  the  gravy  which  is  left ;  it  will  save 
many  pounds  of  meat  in  making  sauces  for  hashes,  and 
many  other  little  dishes." 

",Save  all  the  meat,  &c.,  which  is  left  from  table,  as 
many  things  may  be  re-dressed,  in  a  different  form,  from 
that  in  which  they  were  first  served,  and  often  improve 
the  appearance  of  the  table  without  increasing  the 
expense  of  same." 

"  Never  allow  soups  or  sauces  to  be  left  standing  in 
tin  or  copper  overnight." 

"  Do  not  leave  cold  vegetable  to  get  sour  and  spoil." 

"  No  artists  have  greater  need  to  make  hay  while  the 
sun  shines  than  cooks  have." 


65 


PART     III 

HIGH-CLASS   AND   DOMESTIC   COOKERY 
Of  the  Present  Time. 


All  that  appertains  to  the  delicate  and  valuable  science 
of  cookery,  in  its  highest  and  most  artistic  form,  is  the 
result  and  study  of  the  masters  of  that  craft,  who,  we 
are  bound  to  admit,  have  of  late  produced  marvellous 
improvements  by  providing  what  "  is  pleasant  to  the  eye 
and  good  for  food."  The  modern  high-class  cooks  are 
at  once  artists,  architects,  and  physicians  :  they  appeal 
to  our  senses  of  colour,  of  fragrance,  of  form,  and  of  taste, 
and,  recognising  that  truth,  the  condition  of  our  souls 
is  largely  dependent  on  the  state  of  our  stomachs.  Their 
inventive  genius  is  displayed  in  multitudinous  methods 
for  what  we  may  call  the  artistic  presentation  of  nutri- 
ment. They  can  build  castles  and  cathedrals  out  of 
cooked  meats,  flour,  rice,  and  sugar ;  they  can  fashion 
all  the  flowers  that  bloom  in  the  sprmg  out  of  deftly 
moulded  stearine  crystals  or  carved  vegetable  roots ;  they 


66  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

can  form  all  the  delicate  pieces  of  a  table  decoration,  and 
the  judicious  composition  of  a  well-balanced  bill  of  fare  ; 
they  work  like  dramatists  and  think  like  doctors,  for, 
after  all,  the  "  secret  "  of  a  dinner  means  good  dialogue 
on  the  part  of  the  company,  hence  the  culinary  artist  is 
the  real  physician  of  modern  life.  So  much  for  the 
artists  and  the  "haute  cuisine  "  ;  but  it  is  also  most 
necessary  that  the  importance  of  good  cooking  be  like- 
wise recognised  in  "  every-day  life."  It  is  here  that 
cookery  in  many  cases  is  still  shamefully  mismanaged, 
and  the  extravagance  and  discomfort  resulting  from  bad 
cooking  are  beyond  restraint. 

It  is  often  said  that  a  French  cook  can  serve  up  a 
most  savoury  dish  of  a  few  crusts  of  bread  and  scraps 
of  meat  and  a  little  spice.  I  do  not  know  how  true 
this  may  be,  but  I  am  quite  sure  that  the  English  cook, 
with  a  little  more  judicious  management  and  proper  use 
of  the  material,  ought  to  be  just  as  capable  of  serving  up 
as  palatable,  nutritious,  and  economical  dishes  as  the 
French.  Eleven  women  out  of  twelve  have  daily  some- 
thing to  do  with  preparing  food  for  the  table,  and  if 
more  regard  were  shown  for  such  an  important  matter 
as  the  art  of  cooking,  not  nearly  so  much  food  which  is 
entrusted  to  them  would  be  spoiled. 

It  sounds  very  fine,  no  doubt,  to  place  one's  self 
above  these  lower  considerations  of  material  existence, 
to  profess  indifference  as  to  the  tenderness  of  a  joint, 
or  the  savouriness  of  hashes  and  stews,  and  to  declare 
that,  so  long  as  one  has  enough  to  stop  the  animal 


HIGH-CLASS   AND    DOMESTIC    COOKERY  67 

craving  for  nourislament,  it  is  of  little  importance  whether 
the  food  be  dressed  in  an  appetising  manner  or  not. 
Cooking,  in  the  vocabulary  of  six  women  out  of  eight, 
means  waste,  inefficiency,  and  discomfort ;  many  may 
think  this  exaggeration,  but  such  is  not  the  case,  as  we 
shall  see  when  we  consider  how  much  is  spent  on  food, 
how  much  is  wasted  by  inefficient  management,  and  how 
much  of  that  might  be  saved  by  proper  management. 
Among  the  many  important  reasons  for  and  advantages 
of  good  cooking  there  are  three  essential  ones :  first,  it 
prevents  waste  ;  second,  it  is  necessary  for  health  ;  last, 
but  by  no  means  of  the  least  importance,  it  has  much 
effect  upon  the  temper  and  actions  of  weak  mortals. 

Proper  knowledge  of  the  functions  of  food  and  their 
respective  preparations  of  cooking  would  save  many 
pounds  a  year  ;  it  would  provide  better  comfort,  better 
houses,  and  higher  education.  It  is  distressing  to  note 
in  the  homes  of  the  poor,  and  even  in  some  of  the 
houses  of  the  middle  classes,  how  excessive  are  the 
ignorance  and  the  wastefulness  in  cooking. 

Luxury  is  common  among  all  classes,  and  very 
often  more  so  than  is  needed.  But  it  is  not  luxury  I 
wish  to  advocate  ;  indeed,  most  of  those  who  can  afford 
to  keep  up  an  expensive  table  generally  secure  the 
service  of  first-rate  cooks  who  are  well  acquainted  with 
the  rudiments  and  true  secrets  of  cookery ;  there  should, 
however,  be  a  method  for  the  cooking  of  every-day  life 
between  the  luxurious  display  of  delicacies  daintily 
prepared  by  skilful  man-cooks,  and  the  badly  cooked 


68  PBACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

and  unpalatable  dishes  with    which    the    lower  and 
middle  classes  have  to  be  content. 

It  is  but  a  right  and  reasonable  ambition  for  any 
young  woman  to  desire  to  make  herself  a  mistress  of 
the  art  of  cooking.  It  is  not  essential  that,  because  she 
is  proficient  in  it,  she  is  to  devote  her  time  to  cooking 
meals.  It  is  far  more  conducive,  indeed,  to  domestic 
comfort  for  the  mistress  to  take  no  practical  part  in 
making  the  dishes,  yet  she  ought  to  know  how  they  are 
prepared,  if  she  is  to  direct.  A  word  or  two  of  criticism 
to  the  cook,  a  hint  as  to  some  improvement,  will  show 
the  cook  that  her  mistress  is  efficient  in  the  art,  and  she 
cannot  afford  to  ignore  her  remarks ;  such  will  be  the 
results  when  a  practical  and  thorough  knowledge  in  the 
management  has  been  obtained.  Those  who  understand 
the  necessity  of  good  cooking  recognise  one  of  the 
natural  but  at  the  same  time  most  important  require- 
ments of  home  comfort.  It  should  not  be  for  their  own 
sake  that  they  make  it  a  point  of  study,  for  often  women 
care  little  about  the  pleasures  of  the  table.  It  is  for  the 
sake  of  their  husbands,  sons,  or  brothers,  whose  comfort 
depends  upon  her  good  management.  Sensible  women 
will  not  think  it  prudent  to  look  with  disdain  on  the 
masculine  inclination  for  good  fare ;  for  such  weakness 
they  will  readily  overcome.  Who  knows  better  than  a 
sensible  woman  that  a  man's  physical  welfare  affects 
his  mental  and  moral  condition,  and  understands  the 
connection  between  an  appetising  dinner  and  an 
amiable  frame  of  mind  ?  Good  cooking,  too,  is  necessary 


HIGH-CLASS   AND    DOMESTIC    COOKERY  69' 

for  the  preservation  of  health.  However  plain  the  food 
may  be,  it  must  be  treated  properly,  or  it  will  fail  to 
nourish,  and  be  productive  of  that  dread  enemy,  in- 
digestion. There  are  rules  and  reason  for  everything 
done  in  cooking  as  much  as  in  any  other  art,  and  upon 
the  observance  of  these  rules  depends  success. 

Sameness  is  one  of  the  least  serious  charges  to  be 
brought  against  the  cooking  of  an  ordinary  middle - 
class  family,  though  greater  variety  would  be  more 
agreeable  ;  there  are  generally  worse  evils — bad  cook- 
ing and  serving  up  indigestible  and  wasteful  dishes. 
The  greater  efficiency  of  man-cooks  has  been  attributed, 
and  certamly  not  without  reason,  to  the  better  know- 
ledge of  the  method :  much  more  than  women  they 
work  by  rule ;  they  rely  on  the  clock,  the  scales,  and 
carefully  tested  recipes.  It  is  not  always  profound 
knowledge  that  is  necessary  ;  great  care,  more  delibera- 
tion, and  better  method  would,  in  many  households, 
effect  a  marvellous  transformation.  A  good  cook 
does  not  entirely  depend  on  book  and  rule ;  a  cer- 
tain natural  aptitude  is  necessary,  though  knowledge 
acquired  from  teachers  and  books  on  cookery  is  most 
m  valuable. 

It  would  be  useless  to  expect  to  educate  every  woman 
to  be  a  skilful  cook  ;  nor  is  it  necessary  that  all  women 
should  be  first-rate  cooks ;  but  every  woman  should 
and  could,  if  disposed,  be  able  to  prepare  the  plainer 
articles  of  food  so  that  they  are  palatable,  nutritious, 
and  digestible.     Whether  the  trouble  to  get  this  know- 


70  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

ledge  be  great  or  small,  it  ouglit  to  be  faced.  No  intelli- 
gent and  competent  housekeeper,  whether  mistress  or 
servant,  should,  however,  be  contented  by  merely  acquir- 
ing the  rudiments  of  cooking ;  she  should  be  able  to 
compound  cheap  and  palatable  dishes,  the  recipes  for 
which  she  had  herself  put  together. 

Anythmg  which  is  a  person's  duty  to  do  should  be  done 
well,  and  by  doing  so  one  ought  to  find  pleasure  and  pride 
in  it.  Cooking  being  such  an  important  part  of  the  daily 
work  of  millions  of  mistresses  and  servants,  it  is  one  of 
those  things  in  which  they  should  excel.  They  should 
not  begrudge  the  time  and  study  required  to  enable 
them  to  become  skilful  and  economical  cooks. 

It  is  no  trifling  matter  to  serve  day  after  day  half- 
boiled  potatoes  and  badly  cooked  vegetables,  unpalatable 
stews,  and  underdone  meat ;  the  human  stomach  not 
only  fails  to  get  its  proper  nourishment  as  it  should 
from  these  viands,  but  it  experiences  also  inconvenience, 
contracts  disease,  and  suffers  the  consequent  penalty. 
What  can  be  more  unpalatable  than  food  served  up 
before  it  is  properly  cooked,  and  what  less  satisfying  to 
the  appetite  ?  Any  food  which  the  stomach  loathes, 
whether  from  toughness,  richness,  bad  flavour,  or  un- 
palatableness,  is  not  a  pleasure,  and  cannot  possibly 
be  wholesome  or  economical,  and  must  consequently 
be  injurious  to  human  health.  Wise  people  can 
check  gluttony,  if  good  cookery  should  encourage 
over-eating ;  but  this  I  should  hardly  think  would  be 
the  case. 


HIGH-CLASS   AND    DOMESTIC    COOKEKY  71 

If  meat  is  hard,  tough,  and  unpalatable,  it  is  plain 
that  some  rule  of  good  cooking  has  been  neglected,  and 
the  result  is  not  that  it  is  merely  uninviting,  but  that 
it  is,  as  before  said,  unwholesome.  Custards  turn,  cakes 
do  not  rise,  pastry  is  heav}"  and  uneatable,  soups  and 
fish,  &c.,  go  wi'ong  simply  for  the  want  of  science  on 
the  part  of  the  cook.  A  gifted  cook  can  flavour  better 
"to  taste "  than  by  following  any  scientific  mode  of 
due  proportions  of  seasoning ;  but  a  gifted  cook  is  a 
rare  person,  and  ordinary  mortals  must  be  con- 
tented to  follow  the  definite  rules  which  are  set  before 
them. 

On  the  whole,  it  cannot  be  doubted  that  cooking  as 
an  art  has  much  progressed  of  late  years,  and  will  be 
more  perfected  if  still  more  intelligent  knowledge  is 
directed  to  it. 


Notes  on  Boilingf. 

Well-boiled  meat  is  not  so  common  as  it  should  be, 
and  one  of  the  reasons  is  the  persistence  with  which 
the  old-fashioned  notion  of  putting  the  joint  into  cold 
water  is  still  clung  to  by  many  writers  on  this  subject. 


72  PRACTICAL   GASTRONOMY 

Mrs.  Glasse  is  often  referred  to  as  the  most  old- 
fashioned  and  unscientific  of  cooks,  but  she,  at  any 
rate,  steered  clear  of  this  blunder ;  whereas,  Murray 
says :  **  All  meat  for  boiling  should  be  first  entirely 
covered  with  cold  water."  One  of  the  best  authorities 
says  :  "If  the  flesh  be  introduced  into  the  boiler  when 
the  water  is  in  a  state  of  brisk  ebullition,  and  if  the 
boiling  be  kept  up  for  a  few  minutes,  and  the  pot 
then  placed  in  a  warm  place,  so  that  the  temperature 
of  the  water  is  kept  at  158  deg.  to  165  deg.,  we  have 
the  united  conditions  for  giving  to  the  flesh  the 
qualities  which  fit  it  for  being  eaten.  If  you  wish 
to  rob  meat  of  its  most  nourishing  and  wholesome 
properties,  put  it  in  cold  water,  which  receives  them, 
leaving  the  meat  quite  unfit  for  eating,  even  if  it  does 
make  the  water  a  foundation  for  soup  —that  is,  stock  ! 
But  if  you  want  '  stock,'  it  can  be  made  with 
cheaper  material  than  joints  of  meat  intended  for  the 
table." 

When  meat  is  to  be  eaten,  the  albumen  should  be 
retained  in  it,  for  not  only  does  it  preserve  the  fibrin 
from  becoming  hard,  but  it  gives  to  it  softness  and 
delicacy.  The  influence  of  boiling  water  upon  albumen 
is  well  known.  The  best  method  of  boiling  meat 
intended  for  food  is  to  introduce  it  into  boiling  water  ; 
if  the  boiling  be  kept  up  for  five  minutes,  and  then  so 
much  cold  water  be  added  as  to  reduce  the  temperature 
to  165  deg.,  and  the  whole  retained  at  this  temperature 
long  enough,  all  the  conditions  are  united  which  give 
to   the   flesh   the   quahty   best  adapted  for  its  use  as 


NOTES    ON    BOILING  73 

food.  When  it  is  introduced  into  the  boiling  water, 
the  albumen  immediately  coagulates  from  the  surface 
inwards,  and  in  this  state  forms  a  crust,  which  no 
longer  permits  the  external  water  to  penetrate  into 
the  interior  of  the  mass  of  flesh.  But  the  temperature 
is  gradually  transmitted  to  the  interior,  and  there 
effects  the  conversion  of  the  raw  flesh  into  the 
state  of  boiled.  The  flesh  retains  its  juiciness,  and 
is  quite  as  agreeable  to  the  taste  as  it  can  be  made 
by  roasting.  When  the  temperature  of  the  interior 
of  a  piece  of  meat  has  not  reached  144  deg.  it  presents 
a  blood-coloured  or  underdone  appearance.  The 
principle  of  both  boiling  and  roasting  is  the  same — 
to  endeavour  as  quickly  as  possible  to  surround  the 
joint  with  a  hard  film  of  meat,  in  order  to  keep 
the  flavour  in,  not  to  dissolve  it  out  with  a  cold-water 
bath.  Cold  water  extracts  from  the  meat  two  most 
important  elements  of  the  gastric  juice — lactic  and 
phosphoric  acids. 

In  boiling  meat,  however,  a  certain  proportion  of  the 
nutritious  qualities  are  sure  to  escape  into  the  water  and 
steam,  for  which  reason  the  quantity  of  water  should 
not  be  more  than  suffices  to  cover  the  meat,  nor  the 
saucepan  an  inch  larger  than  it  must  needs  be  to  hold  it. 
Boiled  too  long  or  too  fast,  meat  becomes  indigestible 
and  hard.  Hard  water  is  better  than  soft  water  for 
boiling  meat  in,  more  of  its  tenderness  and  richness 
being  retained  in  the  former  than  in  the  latter.  Too 
rapid  boiling  tends  to  overdo  the  exterior  portion  of  the 
meat,  while  the  interior  remains  underdone.     For  this 


74  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

reason  after  the  meat  has  been  in  water  kept  at  the 
boiling-point  about  five  minutes  the  temperature  should 
be  reduced,  and  the  rest  of  the  process  be  more 
slowly  conducted.  Salted  meat,  in  particular,  should 
be  very  slowly  cooked,  kept  simmering  and  allowed  to 
grow  cool  in  the  pot.  The  scum  which  rises  to  the 
surface  of  the  water  should  be  carefully  removed 
while  the  water  is  near  the  boiling-point,  as  other- 
wise it  sinks,  and  looks  very  unsightly  attached  to  the 
meat. 


Notes  on  Roasting. 


Roasting  is  a  process  which,  if  well  done,  requires 
great  care,  attention,  and  thoughtfulness  on  the  part  of 
the  cook,  the  method  being  a  difficult  and  important  one, 
and  by  no  means  a  thing  of  rule  which  can  be  mechani- 
cally performed.  In  the  first  place,  the  fire  must  be  in 
the  right  condition — clear,  bright  and  giving  out  uniform 
but  not  too  strong  heat — and  its  breadth  and  depth 
should  be  regulated  to  the  size  of  the  joint.  The  weight 
of  the  joint  to  be  roasted,  the  condition  and  form  of  the 
meat,  and  its  proportions  of  fat  and  lean  should  also  be 
considered.  Meat  of  newly  killed  beasts  requires  longer 
cooking.     In  warm  weather  joints  require  slightly  less 


NOTES   ON    ROASTING     *  75 

roasting  than  in  cold.  Thick  joints — say  sirloins  of  beef 
or  legs  of  mutton — will  not  be  well  cooked  if  roasted  as 
long  as  you  would  roast  thinner  ones,  such  as  ribs  of 
beef  or  shoulders.  Boned  or  stuffed  meat  will  require 
longer  cooking  than  the  same  joints  would  unstuffed,  or 
with  the  bone  in.  The  meat  of  young  animals  and  of 
older  ones  requires  different  treatment  (as  a  rule,  young 
flesh,  containing  less  fibrin  requires  most  cooking)  ; 
some  kinds  of  meat  are  best  roasted  before  a  brisk  fire 
(pork,  veal,  and  lamb,  for  instance)  ;  others  should  be 
more  slowly  cooked.  [Some  flesh  requires  very  little 
cooking,  some  much  longer — the  flesh  of  old  and  full- 
grown  animals,  poultry  excepted,  requiring  the  shorter 
time.]  The  cook's  aim  should  be  to  preserve  the  reai 
flavour  and  nourishing  qualities  of  the  meat,  and  to 
prevent  the  juices  from  being  dried  out  during  the  roast- 
ing process.  Attaining  this  aim  depends  chiefly  upon 
the  roasting  being  neither  too  quick  nor  too  slow,  and 
upon  the  care  given  to  the  basting,  which  should  always 
be  thoroughly  done.  Avoid  thrusting  forks  into  roasting 
meat.  It  is  a  good  plan  to  begin  with  the  meat  rather 
close  to  the  fire  and  then  a  little  farther  from  the  fire, 
increasing  the  distance  between  the  grate  and  the  joint 
until  (the  exterior  being  hardened)  the  flesh  is  heated 
nearly  uniformly  all  through,  and  then  bringing  it  and 
keeping  it  near  the  fire,  lest  remaining  too  far  from  it 
should  destroy  its  crisp  firmness,  and  make  it  un- 
pleasantly soft  and  soddened.  If  too  little  cooked  or 
underdone,  meat  is  indigestible.     If  too  much  cooked  or 


76  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

dried  up,  it  is  not  less  so.  Overcooking  expels  the  fluids 
and  contracts  the  fibres.  It  is  sometimes  absurdly 
urged  that  underdone  indigestible  meat  is  to  be  preferred 
because  it  is  in  itself  more  nutritious  than  the  digestible 
or  better-cooked  flesh.  But  this  is  not  dealing  with 
flesh  as  food  ;  for  if  it  were,  cooking  would  be  altogether 
dispensed  with,  because  raw  meat  contains  more  of  the 
nutritious  elements  than  underdone  meat.  It  is  the 
cook's  business  not  only  to  send  food  to  table  as  full  of 
nourishing  qualities  as  it  can  be,  but  to  see  that  such 
qualities  are  in  a  fit  condition  to  do  their  beneficent 
work  of  repairing  and  restoring  most  effectually. 


Notes  on  Stewing. 


The  stewpan  is  one  of  the  most  efficient  utensils 
in  the  hands  of  a  good  cook.  Stewing  has  this  advan- 
tage over  boiling,  the  more  nourishing  and  soluble 
elements  are  not  separted  from,  but  served  up  with,  the 
meat,  the  full  flavour  of  which  is  also  thereby  preserved. 
It  is  sometimes  described  as  a  gradual  process  of  sim- 
mering. The  meat  selected  for  stewing  should  be  lean, 
and,  as  a  rule,  the  better  the  meat,  the  better  it  will  be  for 


NOTES    ON    STEWING  77 

eating ;  but  it  must  be  remembered  that  by  stewing,  the 
coarser  and  cheaper  parts  of  meat,  such  as  bones,  cheeks, 
feet,  tails,  shanks,  knuckles,  trimmings,  &c.,  may  be 
rendered  highly  palatable  and  nutritious.  Every  pound 
of  meat  stewed  will  require  about  a  quart  of  water  (if  it 
is  found  too  little,  warm  water  can  be  afterwards  added). 
The  heating  should  be  slow  and  gradual,  the  skum  taken 
off  as  it  rises,  and  the  stewing  continued  until  the  flavour 
of  the  meat  is  entirely  extracted.  For  stewing,  the 
closed  range  or  stove  is  preferable  to  the  open  grate, 
and  if  the  latter  is  in  use  contact  between  the  stewpan 
and  the  fire  should  be  prevented. 


Notes  on  Frying. 

Frying  is  a  process  frequently  condemned  by  scien- 
tific authorities  mainly,  perhaps,  because  it  is  in  high 
favour  with  bad  cooks.  Contrast  for  one  moment  the 
discoloured  dish,  too  often  met  with  in  private  houses, 
in  which,  say,  a  little  bit  of  fish  is  sent  up,  and  presents 
what  may  be  called  a  parti-coloured  appearance.  Some 
part  is  burned  black  as  a  cinder,  another  part  looks  the 
colour  of  underdone  pie-crust,  and  again  other  parts 
present  bald  patches,  as  if  the  cook  had  accidentally 


78  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

spilled  some  boiling  w?*;ter  on  ?.  cat's  back.  Contrast 
this  with  the  beautifully  rich  golden-coloured  dish  that 
will  make  its  appearance  at  the  table  where  the  master 
mind  of  one  like  Francatelli  has  presided,  or  with  a  dish 
that  one  would  meet  with  in  a  Parisian  cafe,  the  bright 
silver  dish  contrasting  temptingly  with  the  gold-coloured 
food  and  the  crisp  dark  green  parsley  piled  in  the  centre 
— a  work  of  art  which  pleases  both  eye  and  palate, 
senses  nigher  akin  in  their  respective  offices  than  thought- 
less cooks  can  imagine  them  to  be.  The  condition  of 
the  fire  is  of  importance  ;  you  cannot  fry  properly  over 
a  bad  one  ;  continous  care  is  another  necessary  condition. 
Successful  frying,  in  short,  demands  both  skill  and 
knowledge,  and  in  proportion  to  their  exercise  and  degree 
will  be  the  reputation  of  both  frying  and  the  fried. 
"  The  art  of  frying,"  says  Sir  Henry  Thompson,  "  is 
little  understood,  and  the  omelet  is  ahnost  entirely 
neglected  by  our  countrymen.  The  products  of  our 
frying-pan  are  often  greasy,  and  therefore  for  many 
persons  indigestible,  the  shallow  form  of  the  pan  being 
unsuited  for  the  process  of  boiling  in  oil,  that  is,  at  the 
heat  of  nearly  500  deg.  Fahr.  (that  of  boiling  water 
being  212  deg.).  This  high  temperature  produces  results 
which  are  equivalent  indeed  to  quick  roasting  (when  the 
article  is  cooked  in  boiling  fat) ;  but  frying  as  generally 
conducted  is  rather  a  combination  of  boiling  and  toast- 
ing (or  scorching) ;  and  the  use  of  the  deep  pan  of 
boiling  oil  or  dripping  which  is  essential  to  the  right 
performance  of  the  process,  and  especially  as  preventing 


NOTES    ON    FRYING  79 

greasiness,  is  a  rare  exception  and  not  the  rule  in  ordi- 
nary kitchens.  The  principle  on  which  success  depends 
is  that  at  the  moment  of  contact  with  the  almost  boiling 
fat  a  thin  film  over  every  part  of  the  surface  of  the  fish 
or  other  obj  ect  to  be  fried  is  coagulated,  so  that  the 
juices  with  their  flavours  &c.  are  at  once  locked  up 
within,  and  no  quality  can  escape.  The  frying  fat  should, 
therefore,  be  in  sufficient  quantity,  and  also  hot  enough, 
to  efiect  this  result  in  an  instant,  after  which,  and  dur- 
ing the  few  minutes  required  to  cook  the  interior,  the 
heat  may  be  slightly  lowered  with  advantage." 


Notes  on  Braising. 

Braising  is  a  kind  of  improved  stewing  process, 
which  the  before -mentioned  authority  thinks  we  very 
unwisely  neglect.  "  In  braising,"  he  says,  "the  meat  is 
just  covered  with  a  strong  liquor  of  vegetable  and 
animal  juices  (braise  or  mirepoix)  in  a  closely 
covered  vessel,  from  which  as  little  evaporation  as 
possible  is  permitted,  and  is  exposed  for  a  considerable 
time  to  a  surrounding  heat  just  short  of  boiling."  By 
this  treatment  tough,  fibrous  flesh,  whether  of  poultry 


80  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

or  of  cattle,  or  meat  unduly  fresh,  such  as  can  alone  be 
procured  during  the  summer  season  in  towns,  is  made 
tender,  and  is  furthermore  impregnated  with  the  odours 
and  flavour  of  fresh  vegetables  and  sweet  herbs,  while 
the  liquor  itself,  slowly  reduced  in  the  process,  furnishes 
the  most  appropriate,  fragrant,  and  delicious  sauce  with 
which  to  surround  the  portion  when  served  at  table. 
Thus,  also,  meats  which  are  dry  and  of  little  flavour, 
such  as  veal,  become  saturated  with  juices,  which  render 
the  food  succulent  and  delicious.  Spices  and  wine  are 
sometimes  used  to  impart  their  flavours.  The  process 
of  cooking  a  braise  is  thus  spoken  of  by  Jules  Gouffe  in 
his  "Livre  de  Cuisine."  The  chief  operation  is  one  of 
slow  simmering,  for,  he  says,  if  the  meat  be  exposed  to 
sudden  heat  the  gravy  is  insipid,  colourless,  and  weak, 
as  it  too  often  is  in  such  preparations  by  careless  or 
ignorant  cooks.  The  gravy  should  be  highly  nutritious, 
of  a  rich  high  colour  and  flavour,  and  of  gelatinous  con- 
sistency. "I  advise,"  he  says,  "that  for  braising  the 
quantity  of  meat  should  be  large  rather  than  small,  as  a 
long  process  of  cooking  s  most  effective,  and  you  at 
once  obtain  two  admirable  dishes  instead  of  one,  for 
when  the  braise  is  cold  it  is  equally  good,  and  affords  a 
pleasant  change." 


81 


Notes  on  Broiling  and  Grilling. 


This  is  a  process  in  general  favour  with  both  cooks 
and  physicians,  as  it  retains  in  the  meat  the  more 
nutritious  qualities  and  flavour,  their  evaporation  and 
exhalation  being  prevented  by  the  sudden  closing  to- 
gether of  the  fibres,  or,  in  other  words,  the  hardening 
and  bro^vning  of  the  surface.  The  gridiron,  kept  always 
in  a  perfectly  clean  condition,  should  be  made  hot  and 
previously  rubbed  with  a  piece  of  clean  fat  to  prevent 
scorching,  and  thereby  disfiguring  the  appearance  of  the 
food  ;  and  the  fire,  where  coal  or  coke  is  used,  should  be 
clear  and  bright.  The  great  art  lies  in  suiting  the  time  of 
cooking  and  the  number  of  turns  to  the  size,  thickness, 
and  general  character  of  the  meat  you  have  to  broil — 
a  beefsteak,  for  instance,  requiring  more  frequent  turning 
than  a  mutton  chop,  and  a  pork  chop  requiring  a  longer 
time  for  its  broiling  than  a  steak.  Special  care  must  be 
exercised  to  keep  the  fat  from  falling  into  the  fire,  as  the 
sudden  blaze  conveys  a  smoky  flavour  to  the  meat.  But, 
above  everything,  take  care  not  to  pinch  the  meat  in 
turning,  or  the  juices  will  run  out,  and  much  of  the 
flavour  be  lost.  At  the  first  cut  from  a  well- cooked 
steak  or  chop,  especially  a  steak,  the  gravy  should 
burst  forth.  The  value  of  the  gridiron  is,  perhaps 
nowhere  better  known  than  in  England,  especially  in 


82  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

relation  to  chops,  steaks,  kidneys,  the  blade-bone,  or 
even  a  small  shoulder  of  mutton,  all  of  which  may  be 
sent  to  table  in  the  highest  perfection  from  a  clear  fire 
managed  by  careful  and  competent  hands ;  although 
it  is  still  not  so  widely  appreciated  as  it  deserves  to  be  in 
the  preparation  of  many  a  small  dish  of  fish,  fowl,  and 
meat  or  bone,  to  say  nothing  of  a  grilled  mushroom^ 
either  alone  or  as  an  accompaniment  to  any  of  them. 


Notes  on  Salads  and  Salad  Dressing. 

Salads  are  now,  as  they  ^v^ere  a  couple  of  hundred 
years  ago,  composed  of  certain  pot-herbs,  to  which  are 
added  various  aromatic  odoriferous  herbs  or  fournituresy 
as  the  French  call  them,  which  greatly  add  to  the  zest 
of  the  mixture.  There  are  about  twelve  of  these  herhes 
de  fourniture,  namely,  garden-cress,  watercress,  chervil, 
chives,  scalhons  or  green  onions,  tarragon,  pimpernel  or 
burnet,  parsley,  hartshorn,  sweet  basil,  purslane,  fennel, 
and  young  balsam.  Cresses  are  wholesome  and  anti- 
scorbutic, chervil  is  a  purifier,  chives  a  stimulant,  tar- 
ragon stomachic  and  corroborant,  while  parsley  is 
carminative,  and  the  remaining  herbs  are  all  pronounced 
by  Lemery  in  his  "  Traite  des  Aliments"  to  have 
medicinal  virtues. 


NOTES    ON    SALADS    AND    SALAD    DRESSING  8B 

Salads,  of  course,  vary  with  the  season.  Chicory  or 
endive  is  in  season  at  the  end  of  autumn,  and  it  is  not 
usual  to  add  any  herhe  de  fourniture  to  that  salad. 
Some  in  France  place  at  the  bottom  of  the  salad-basin 
containing  an  endive  salad  a  small  crust  of  stale  bread 
rubbed  over  with  garlic,  which  gives  a  slight  flavour 
to  the  dish.  Later  in  the  season  another  species  of 
chicory  called  scarole  is  had  recourse  to.  It  is  not  so 
tender  as  chicory  proper,  but  has  as  much  flavour,  and 
is  quite  as  wholesome.  Chicory,  according  to  Lemaire, 
is  of  a  cooling  nature,  and  creates  an  appetite.  Winter 
salads  are  generally  composed  of  mdche  or  corn  salad, 
rampions  and  chopped  celery.  Sometimes  also  in 
winter  a  salad  is  made  exclusively  of  chopped  celery,, 
seasoned  with  oil  and  mustard. 

Garden  or  water-cress  is  also  a  winter  salad.  It  is 
good  to  mix  it  with  slices  of  beetroot ;  and  in  France, 
more  especially  in  Provence,  ohves  are  often  added. 
Towards  February  the  salad  most  in  vogue  is  an 
endive  called  barbe  de  Ca^ucin,  or  Capucin's  beard.  It 
is  seasoned  like  the  white  succory. 

The  lettuce  generally  appears  about  the  commence- 
ment of  Lent,  but  the  better  sort  of  lettuce  does  not 
make  its  appearance  before  Easter.  It  is  the  most 
popular  of  all  salads.  Herbes  de  fourniture  are  added 
to  it,  in  which  anchovies  and  chopped  chives  are  mixed.. 
Sometimes,  as  a  variety,  prawns  and  shrimps  are 
added. 

Next   comes   the   Roman  lettuce,  less  watery,  and 


84  PEACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

with  much  fuller  and  finer  flavour  than  the  preceding, 
especially  when  the  leaves  are  streaked.  The  Roman 
lettuce  is  sometimes  served  with  odoriferous  herbs, 
hard  eggs  are  often  added  to  the  seasoning.  The 
Roman  lettuce  is  in  season  from  May  to  the  end  of 
autumn. 

Besides  these  there  are  hotch-potch  salads  made 
en  ynacedoine  in  a  variety  of  roots  and  vegetables, 
such  as  French  beans,  haricots  blancs,  lentils,  small 
onions,  beetroot,  saxifrage,  or  goat's  beard,  potatoes, 
carrots,  artichoke  bottoms,  asparagus  tops,  gherkins, 
sliced  anchovies,  soused  tunny,  olives,  &c. 

There  are  salads  also  of  meat,  fish,  and  game.  A 
salade  a  Vitalienne  is  composed  of  cold  fowl  cut  up 
in  pieces  and  served  with  anchovies  and  dressed 
salad.  True  connoisseurs  of  the  vegetable  luxury  wipe 
the  separated  leaves  of  the  lettuce  one  by  one  with 
care.  They  break  the  foliage  for  the  salad-bowl,  never 
cutting  it,  and  debate  and  commingle  the  component 
parts  of  the  dressing  with  anxiety  and  scrupulous  care. 
A  good  salad  can  be  concocted,  of  course,  out  of  fifty 
ingredients,  from  nettle-tops  and  dandelion  leaves 
through  cold  potato  and  beetroot  to  the  lettuce  and 
the  endive,  which  are  salad  plants  par  excellence.  It 
is  in  dressing,  however,  that  genius  is  most  exhibited. 
The  broad  rule  has  been  well  laid  down  in  the  familiar 
formula,  that  to  compound  a  proper  garnish  for  a  bowl 
of  salad  demands  "  a  sage  for  the  salt,  a  miser  for  the 
vinegar,  a  prodigal  for  the  oil,  and  a  maniac  for  the 
Other  and  difficult  problems  must  of  course 


NOTES    ON    SALADS   AND    SALAD    DRESSING  85 

arise ;  but,  from  whatever  side  we  examine  the  question  of 
this  seasonable  dish,  everything  depends  upon  oil — good, 
pure,  pellucid,  nut-flavoured  oil.  That  of  the  olive  is 
to  be  preferred,  of  course,  and  for  choice  the  Provence 
oil,  as  distinguished  from  the  so-called  *'  Lucca."  Home- 
made salad  dressing,  it  goes  without  saying,  is  better 
than  that  bought  ready-made.  A  few  not  generally 
known  items  on  the  subject  may  be  acceptable.  First, 
you  can  boil  your  dressing,  and  so  keep  it,  tightly 
bottled,  for  some  time.  Take  three  eggs,  one  tablespoon- 
ful  each  of  sugar,  oil,  and  salt,  a  small  tablespoonful  of 
mustard,  a  cupful  of  milk,  and  one,  or  less,  of  vinegar. 
Stir  the  oil,  salt,  mustard,  and  sugar  in  a  bowl  until 
perfectly  smooth,  add  the  yolk  of  the  eggs,  well  beaten, 
then  the  vinegar,  and  lastly  the  milk.  Place  the  bowl 
in  a  basin  of  boiling  water,  and  stir  the  contents  till  of 
the  consistency  of  custard.  For  aspic  mayonnaise 
dressing  melt  a  cupful  of  savoury  jelly,  then  put  it  in  a 
bowl,  which  place  in  a  basin  of  ice  water,  mix  with  a 
quarter  cup  of  vinegar,  one  tablespoonful  of  sugar,  one 
scant  of  mustard,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  a  pinch 
of  cayenne.  Beat  the  jelly  with  a  whisk,  and  when  it 
thickens  add  the  oil  and  vinegar  little  by  little,  lastly  a 
little  lemon -juice,  beating  it  all  the  time.  This  dressing 
ought  to  be  very  white,  and  will  serve  as  an  excellent 
salad  dressing. 


We  may  live  without  poetry,  music,  and  art ; 

We  may  live  without  conscience,  and  live  without  heart ; 

We  may  live  without  friends  ;  we  may  live  without  books  ; 

But  civilised  man  cannot  live  without  cooks. 

We  may  live  without  books — what  is  knowledge  but  grieving : 

We  may  live  without  hope — what  is  hope  but  deceiving  ? 

We  may  live  without  love — what  is  passion  but  pining 

But  where  is  the  man  that  can  live  without  dining  ? 

Owen  Meredith 


PAET    IV 


COMPLETE 


MENU-COMPILER 


AND   REGISTEK   OF 


MOST    KNOWN     DISHES 


IN 

FRENCH  AND  ENGLISH 


WITH 


Practical   Observations  on  Same 


"  La  Gastronomie  marche  en  souveraine  a 
la  tete  de  la  civilisation,  mais  elle  vegete  dans 
le  temps  de  revolution." 

Bbillat-Savaein. 


89 


HORS-D'CEUVRE     FROIDS 

Hors-d'oeuvre  simples— Plain  Side  Dishes 
Served  on  small  Glass  or  China  Dishes. 

N.B. — Pats  of  fresh  Butter  should  be  served  with  all 
side  dishes. 


French. 
Anchois  a  I'huile. 
Anchois  aux  capres. 
Anguilles  fumees. 
Anguilles  marinees. 
Sardines  a  I'huile. 
Sardines  fumees. 
Sardines  sans  aretes. 
Sardines  a  la  tomate. 
Royans  a  I'huile. 
Sardines  Russe. 
Harengs  marines. 
Melesses  fumees. 
Saumon  fume. 
Carrelets  fumes. 
Langouste. 
Crevettes. 
Ecrevisses. 
Lamproies  a  I'huile. 


English. 

Anchovies  in  oil. 
Anchovies  ivith  Capers. 
Smoked  Eel. 
Pickled  Eel. 
Sardines  in  oil. 
Smoked  Sardines. 
Boneless  Sardines. 
Sardines  in  Tomato  sauce. 
Eoyans  in  oil. 
Bussian  Sardines  pickled. 
Pickled  Herrings. 
Smoked  Sprats. 
Smoked  Salmon. 
Smoked  Flounders. 
Spiny  Lobster. 
Praiv7is. 
Crayfish. 
Lampreys  in  oil 


90 


PKACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 


Maquereaux  a  rhuile. 
Then  marine. 
(Eufs  de  Plmiers. 
(Eufs  de  Moiiettes. 
(Eufs  de  Vanneaux. 


Mackerel  in  oil. 

Pickled  Tunny  Fish. 

Plover's  eggs. 

Meio  eggs  (Gull  eggs). 

Lapwing  eggs  {Puvet  eggs). 


Smoked  Provisions  suitable  for  Hors-d'oRuvre,  cut  in 
thin  slices,  and  served  in  Hors-d'oeuvre  dishes. 


Jambon  de  Strasbourg. 
Langue  fouree. 
Jambon  Westphalie. 
Jambon  d'Espagne. 
Langue  de  Eenne  fumee. 
Saucisson  de  Brunswick. 
Saucisson  de  Milan. 


Strashurg  Ham. 
Smoked  Ox  Tongue. 
Westphalian  Ham. 
Spanish  Ham. 
Beindeer  Tongues. 
Brunswick  Sausage. 
Salami  Sausage. 


Saucisson  de  Foie  de  Strasbourg. 

Strashurg  Liver  Sausage, 


Saucisson  de  Foie  gras. 
Saucissons  de  Jambon. 
Saucisson  de  Lyon. 
Saucisson  de  Mordadelle. 
Saucisson  noir. 
Saucisson  blanc. 
Saucisson  de  Perigueux. 
Saucisson  de  Bologne. 
Poitrine  d'oie  fumee. 
Cornicbons  a  la  moutarde. 
Cornichons. 
Olives  d'Espagne. 


Goose-Liver  Sausage. 
Ha77i  Sausage. 
Lyon  Saiisage. 
Mordedella  Sausage. 
Black  Sausage. 
White  Sausage. 
Liver  and  Truffle  Sausage. 
Bologna  Sausage, 
Smoked  breast  of  goose. 
Gherkins  in  mustard  sauce. 
Gherkins. 
Spanish  Olives. 


HORS-D  (EUVRE 


91 


Olives  farcies. 
Melon  brode. 
Radis  rose  et  blanc. 
Celeri. 

Betterave  marinee. 
Cresson  alenois. 
Tomates  crues. 
Anguille  marinee. 
Clames  Am^ricains. 
Crevettes  dressees. 
Ecrevisse  dressee. 
Escargots  farcis. 
Grenouilles  marinees. 
Harengs  saurets. 


Stuffed  Olives. 

Pickled  Melon. 

Badishes,  pink  and  white. 

Celery. 

Pickled  Beetroot. 

Garden  Cress. 

Fresh  Tomatoes. 

Soused  Eel. 

America7i  Clams. 

Dressed  Shrimps  (Prawns). 

Dressed  Crawfish. 

Stuffed  Snails. 

Pickled  Frogs. 

Smoked  Herrings. 

Soused  Herrings. 


Harengs  marines. 
Harengs  a  la  Remoulade. 

Pickled  Herrings  in  Mustard  Sauce. 

Huitres.  Oysters. 

Sandwich  au  Jambon.  Hayji  Sandtuich. 

Sandwich  aux  Anchois.  Anchovy  Sajidwich. 

Sandwich  au  Caviar.  Caviare  Sandtuich. 
Sandwich  panache. 

Sandwich  with  various  kinds  of  meat. 

Sandwich  de  Homard.  Lobster  Sandivich. 

Sandwich  aux  Sardines.  Sardine  Sandwich. 

Sandwich  au  fromage.  Cheese  Sandwich. 

Sandwich  de  Foie  gras.  Goose-Liver  Sandwich. 


92  PRACTICAL    GASTBONOMY 


Hors-d'oeuvre  froids  et  mets  divers. 
Prepared  Side  Dishes  (Cold). 


Anchois  sur  canapes.  Anchovy  Canapees. 

Anchois  en  salade.  Anchovy  Salad. 

Anchois  et  queues  d'ecrevisses  au  capisantis. 

Anchovies  and  Crayfish  tails  in  shells. 
Bonnes-Bouches  de  Sardines  k  la  Royale. 

Sardine  patties,  Boyal  style. 
Sardines  sur  canapes.  Sardine  Canapees. 

Bonnes-Bouches  de  Foie  gras.     Goose-Liver  Patties. 
Darioles  de  Foie  gras.  Goose-Liver  Darioles. 

Bonnes-Bouches  a  la  Cardinal. 

Lobster  and  Anchovy  Bonnes-Bouches. 
Crabe  garnie.  Dressed  Crab. 

Darioles  d'Huitres  a  la  Carlton. 

Oyster  Darioles,  Carlton  style, 
Ballotines  de  Homard  a  la  Reforme. 

Ballotines  of  Lobster,  Beform  style. 
Darioles  de  Homard  a  la  Tomate. 

Lobster  Darioles  with  To^natoes. 
Homard  k  la  Careme.  Lobster  dressed  Careme  style. 
Canapes  de  Homard  a  la  Eeine. 

Lobster  Canapees,  Queen  style. 
Canapes  de  Saumon  fum6.   Smoked  Salmon  Canapees. 


hobs-d'(euvkb  93 

Pate  d'Ecrevisses  sur  canapes. 

Crayfish  paste  on  canapees. 
Thon  marine  sur  canapes. 

Pickled  Timny  Fish  on  canapees. 
Laitance  de  Cabillaud  fume  sur  canapes. 

Smoked  Cod's  Boe  canapees. 
Caviar  sur  Canape  a  la  remoulade. 

Caviare  Canapees,  rdmoulade  style. 
Brisolettes  de  Caviar  a  la  Moscovite. 

Caviare  dainties ^  Moscow  style. 
Dariole  de  Caviar.  Caviare  Darioles. 

Escargots  aux  fines  herbes.    Snails  with  fine  herb  butter. 
Boeuf  fume  k  la  Hambourgeoise. 

Smoked  Beef,  Hamburg  style. 
Boeuf  hache  a  I'aspic.  Minced  Beef  tuith  savoury  jelly, 
Jambon  sur  canapes.  Ham  canapees. 

Langue  de  Boeuf  sur  canapes. 

Ox-Tongue  canapees. 
Darioles  de  Tomate  a  la  creme. 

Tomato  Darioles  with  cream. 
(Eufs  farcis  a  la  Russe.  Stuffed  Eggs,  Bussian  style. 
Petites  Bouchees  de  Jambon  k  la  creme. 

Small  Ham  patties  with  cream. 
Appetissants  espagnols.        Spanish  Appetisers. 
Appetissants  a  la  Maximilien. 

Appetisers,  Maximilian  style. 

A  book  on  "  Side  Dishes,"  comprising  Hors-d'oeuvre, 
Savouries,  and  Salads,  by  the  Author  of  this  work,  is  pub- 
lished by  John  Haddon  and  Co.,  Bouverie  House,  Salisbury 
Court.     Price  3s.  Qd. 


94  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 


Etiquette  for  serving  Hors-d'oeuvre,  &c. 

There  are  a  number  of  Hors-d'oeuvre,  as  well  as 
other  eatables,  that  may  be  taken  at  the  dinner  table 
without  the  aid  of  either  knife,  fork,  or  spoon — for 
instance : 

Olives,  to  which  a  fork  should  never  be  applied. 

Sandiviches.     They  should  never  be  cut  too  large. 

Asparagus,  whether  hot  or  cold. 

Lettuce,  which  should  be  dipped  in  the  dressing  or 
a  little  salt. 

Celery,  which  may  be  placed  on  the  table  beside  the 
plate. 

Bread,  Toast,  Tarts,  Small  Cakes,  <&c. 

Fruits  of  all  kinds  except  preserves,  which  are 
eaten  with  a  spoon ;  melons  and  pines  are  eaten  with 
fruit  knives,  and  often  apples  and  pears. 

Cheese  is  in  some  cases  eaten  with  the  fingers,  even 
by  the  most  particular  gourmets. 

Either  the  leg  or  other  sriiall  pieces  of  a  bird  may  be 
picked  with  the  fingers. 

Ladies  at  most  of  the  fashionable  tables  pick  small 
pieces  of  chicken,  without  using  knife  or  fork. 


95 


POTAGES— SOUPS 

A.  Consommes.— Clear  Soups. 

Consomme  Brunoise.  Brunoise  gravy  soup. 

A  vegetable  gravy  soup  with  carrots,  turnips,  leeks, 
and  onions  cut  into  very  fine  discs. 

Consomme  Celestin.  Celestine  gravy  soup. 

A  clear  gravy  soup  with  thin  pancakes  cut  into 
julienne  shapes. 

Consomme  Christophe  Colomb. 

Christophe  Colomb  chicken  broth. 
Clear  chicken  broth  with  small  diamonds  of  poached 
^gg  mixture,  made  from  whites  and  yolks  of  eggs  and 
milk. 

Consomme  Fleury.  Fleury  gravy  soup. 

A  clear  soup  with  rice  and  a  few  vegetables  cut  into 
discs.     (Macedoine.) 

Consomme  d  la  Colbert.       Colbert  gravy  soup. 
A  clear  soup  with  poached  eggs  and  green  peas. 

Consomme  aux  chouxfarcis. 

Gravy  soup  with  stuffed  sprouts. 
A  clear  soup  with  small  stuffed  sprouts. 


96  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

Consomme  d  Vestragon.        Tarragon  gravy  soup. 

A  clear  soup  flavoured  with  tarragon  leaves. 

Consomme  clair.  Clear  gravy  soup  (plain). 

Consomme  d  la  fermiere.    Gravy  soup,  farm-house  style. 

A  clear  soup  with  carrots,  cabbage,  leeks,  potatoes, 
and  turnips,  cut  into  thin  triangle-shaped  slices. 

Consomme  d  la  Grisonne.    Grisonne  gravy  soup. 

A  clear  soup  with  small  dumplings  (quenelles)  pro- 
duced with  batter  paste,  passed  mto  the  soup  when 
boiling  through  a  coarse  colander. 

Consommd  Cock-a-Leekie.    Cock-a-Leekie  soup. 

Chicken  broth,  clear,  with  leeks  cut  into  thick  julienne 
shape,  pearl  barley,  and  small  discs  of  boiled  chicken 
breast. 

Consmnme  aux  lasagnes.      Lasagne  gravy  soup. 

A  clear  soup  with  nouilles  (a  kind  of  macaroni  paste^ 
only  flat  instead  of  round). 

Cmisomme  Mulligatawny.    Clear  mulligatawny  soup. 

Consomm6  Julie^ine.  Julienne  gravy  soup. 

A  clear  soup,  with  carrots,  turnips,  onions,  leeks, 
cabbage,  and  lettuces  cut  into  very  thin  strips,  about  an 
inch  long,  called  Julienne. 

Consomm&  Salferino.  Salferino  gravy  soup. 

A  clear  soup  with  carrots,  turnips,  potatoes,  cut  out 
with  a   small   round  spoon,   termed  in  French  d  la 

cuill^e. 


POTAGES — SOUPS  97 

Consomme  maigre.  Fish  broth. 

A  clear  soup  (Lent  soup),  made  with  fish  stock  and 
vegetables. 

Consomme  a  la  moelle  de  bceuf. 

Beef  marrow  gravy  soup. 

A  clear  soup  with  small  marrow,  fat  dumplings. 

Co7isomme  au  macaroni.       Macaroni  gravy  soup. 

Consomm6  a  la  Monaco.      Gravy  soup,  Monaco  style. 
A  clear  soup  with  stuffed  fried  bread  dumplings. 

Consomme  a  la  ^aysanne.    Peasant  gravy  soup. 

A  clear  gravy  soup  with  carrots,  cabbages,  leeks, 
turnips,  lettuces,  cut  into  large  discs. 

Consomme  d  la  printaniere.  Spring  gravy  soup. 
A  clear  gravy  soup  with  spring  vegetables. 

Consomme  au  pain  de  foie.  Gravy  soup  with  liver. 
A  clear  soup  with  small  liver  dumplings. 

Consomme  aux  pates  d' Italic. 

Gravy  soup  with  Italian  paste. 

A  clear  soup  with  Italian  paste. 
Consomme  a  la  Baviere.      Gv&vy  soup.  Bavarian  style. 

A  clear  soup  with  semolina  dumplings. 
Consomme  croMe  au  pot.     Gravy  soup  with  toast. 

A  clear  soup,  with   stock-pot  vegetables  and  thin 
pieces  of  toast  cut  into  discs. 


98  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

Consomme  pot  aufeu.  French  gravy  soup. 

A  clear  soup  with  onions,  carrots,  turnips,  and  celery 
to  flavour  the  stock,  which  should  be  made  of  beef, 
mutton,  and  veal.  Small  rounds  of  toasted  bread  are 
placed  in  the  tureen  before  serving  the  soup,  which  is 
strained  over  when  ready. 

Consomme  a  la  Florentine.  Florentine  gra"s^  soup. 
A  clear  soup  with  small  parmesan  cheese  dumplings. 

Consomme  Deslignac.  Deslignac  gravy  soup. 

A  clear  soup  with  discs  of  poached  eggs  prepared  as 
for  the  Consomme  Christophe  Colomb  ;  the  eggs  are  left 
whole  and  are  beaten  with  milk,  and  mixed  with 
chopped  parsley,  celery,  and  truffles  before  poaching. 

Consommd  a  V Ecossaise.      Scotch  broth. 

Consomme  au  riz.  Gravy  soup  with  rice. 

A  clear  soup  with  boiled  rice. 

Consomme  Bavioli.  Ravioli  gravy  soup. 

A  clear  soup  made  of  chicken  and  veal  stock  with 
little  paste  dumplings  stuffed  with  force-meat. 

Consomme  Pierre  le  Grand. 

Gravy  soup,  Peter  the  Great  style. 

A  clear  soup  with  lettuce,  turnips,  celery,  and 
preserved  mushrooms  cut  into  Julienne- shaped  strips. 

Consomme  d  la  Sevigne.       Clear  soup,  Sevigne  style. 
A  clear  soup  with  small  chicken  dumplings. 


POTAGES — SOUPS  99 

Consomm&  d  la  chasseur.      Gravy  soup,  sportsman  style. 
A   clear   soup   with   small  dumplings   stuffed  with 
potted  game. 

Consomme  d  la  Princesse.    Gravy  soup,  Princess  style. 
A  clear  chicken  broth  with  small  asparagus  points, 
carrots,  turnips,  and  green  peas,  the  carrots  and  turnips 
to  be  cut  in  the  same  shape  as  the  peas. 

Consomme  au  sagou.  Sago  soup. 

A  clear  soup  with  sago. 

Consomme  au  tajnoca.         Tapioca  soup. 
A  clear  soup  with  tapioca. 

Consommi  d  la  jardiniere.    Jardiniere  gravy  soup. 

A  clear  soup  with  carrots,  turnips,  and  celery  scooped 
out  into  the  form  of  olives. 

Consomme  chijfonnade.        Chiffonnade  gravy  soup. 

A  clear  consomme  with  a  garniture  of  spring  onion 
heads,  green  peas,  and  lettuce,  leaves  stamped  out 
round,  seasoned  with  green  mint  and  tarragon  leaves. 

Consomme  d' abatis  de  gibier.  Giblet  soup,  clear. 

Consomme  de  gibier.  Clear  game  soup. 

Consomme  aux  quenelles  de  volaille. 

Chicken  quenelle  gravy  soup. 
A  clear  soup  with  chicken  force-meat  dumplings. 

Consomme  aux  queues  de  bceuf. 

Clear  Ox-tail  soup. 

Consomme  d  la  tortue.         Clear  Turtle  soup. 


100  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

Consomme  a  lafausse  torttie. 

Clear  Mock  Turtle  soup. 

Bouillon  aux  cRufs,  Gravy  soup  with  eggs. 

Consomme  a  la  Busse.  Russian  gravy  soup. 

A  clear  soup  with  finely  cut  slices  of  carrots,  celery, 
and  leeks. 

Bouillon  de  volaille.  Chicken  broth. 

Bouillon  de  boeuf.  Beef  broth. 

Bouillon  de  tnouton.  Mutton  broth. 

Consomme  de  volaille.  Chicken  gravy  soup. 

Consomme  aux  pointes  d'asperges. 

Asparagus  gravy  soup. 
A  clear  soup  with  asparagus  points. 

Consomme  aux  vermicelles.  Clear  soup  with  vermicelli. 

Bouillon  de  veau.  Veal  broth. 

Tchy  de  soldat.  Russian  chicken  broth. 

A  clear  soup  made  with  chicken  and  veal  stock  and 
vegetables  cut  into  small  strips. 


B. 

Purees  et  potages  lies. — Purees  and  Thick  Soups. 

Bisque  de  crevettes.  Shrimp  soup  (pink). 

A  thick  soup  made  of  fish  stock  and  shrimps. 
Bisque  d'ecrevisses.  Crayfish  soup. 


PUREES    ET   POTAGES   LIES  101 

Bisque  de  volaille  aux  ecrevisses. 

Chicken  and  crayfish  soup. 
A  thick  chicken  broth  with  crayfish. 

Bisque  de  homards.  Lobster  soup  (red). 

Bisque  de  langoustes.  Langouste  soup  (pink). 

A  thick  soup,  puree  of  sea  crayfish  or  large  lobsters^ 

Potage  de  grenouille.  Filtered  frog  soup  (white). 

Potage  d'anguilles  d  VAllemande. 

German  eel  soup  (white). 

Potage  hodge-podge  a  VEcossaise.     Hodge-podge. 

National  Scotch  soup,  consisting  of  mutton  broth,, 
finely  cut  carrots,  turnips,  leeks,  parsley,  cauliflowers, 
and  peas. 

Potage  puree  d  la  Castelaine. 

Castelaine  soup  (brown). 
A  thick  soup,  made  with  beef. 

Potage  aux  huitres.  Oyster  soup  (white). 

Potage  d  la  Prince  de  Galles. 

Prince  of  Wales  soup  (brown)» 
A  thick  mock-turtle,  with  small  veal  dumplings. 

Potage  a  la  Windsor.  Windsor  soup  (brown). 

A  thick  soup  made  with  mutton,  beef,  and  rice. 

Potage  d  la  chasseur.  Hunter's  soup  (brown). 

A  thick  game  soup  with  minced  mushrooms  and 
game  fillets. 


102  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

Potage  d  la  Capri.  Capri  game  soup  (brown). 

A  thick  soup  with  minced  quail  fillets  and  cocks- 
combs. 

Puree  de  gibier.  Game  soup  (brown). 

Potage  d  la  Beine.  Queen  soup  (white). 

A  thick  chicken  soup,  with  small  chicken  dumplings 
and  rice. 

Potage  de  lievre  d  VAnglaise. 

Enghsh  hare  soup  (brown). 

Potage  d  la  gentilhomme.     Gentleman's  soup  (brown). 

Puree    of    rabbit,    pork,   and   ham,    with    minced 
sausages  and  mushrooms. 

Potage  a  la  tortue.  Real  turtle  soup  (brown). 

Potage  dla  tortue  fausse.     Mock  turtle  soup  (brown). 

Potage  d  la  teraphie,  Eiver  turtle  soup  (brownj. 

A  kind  of  thick  turtle  soup,   made  with  terrapin 
turtle. 

Potage  a  la  Montglas.  Montglas  soup  (white). 

A  thick  soup  made  of  capon,  with  minced  truffles  and 
mushrooms. 

Potage  lie  aux  queues  de  ho&ufs. 

Thick  ox-tail  soup  (brown). 

Potage  aux  queues  de  veaux  d  VIndienne. 

Indian  calf's  tail  soup. 
A  thick  calf's  tail  soup  with  curried  rice. 

Potage  de  cailles.  Quail  soup  (brown). 


PUREES    ET    POTAGES    LIES  103 

Potage  de  pluviers.  Plover  soup  (brown). 

Potage  de  faisans.  Pheasant  soup  (light  brown).. 

Puree  de  gibier  d  la  Conde.  Conde  soup  (light  brown). 
A  thick  venison  soup  with  lentils. 

Potage  imree  de  veau.  Veal  soup  (white). 

A  thick  soup  made  of  veal. 

Potage  puree  de  hoeuf.  Beef  soup  (brown). 

A  thick  soup  made  of  beef. 

Potage  Mulligatawny.  Thick  Mulligatawny  soup, 

Potage  a  VOrleans.  Orleans  soup  (white). 

A  puree  of  fowls  with  tapioca. 

Potage  de  la  Begence.  Regent  soup  (white). 

A  puree  of  fowls  with  vegetables. 

Potage  a  la  duchesse.  Duchesse  soup  (white). 

A  puree  of  fowls,  with  minced  chicken  or  game  fillets. 

Potage  a  la  Polonaise.         Polish  soup  (light  brown). 
A  puree  of  beef  and  pork  with  sauerkraut. 

Puree  de  pigeons  sauvages.  Wild  pigeon  soup  (brown). 

Potage  depieds  de  veau.       Calf's  feet  soup  (white). 

Picree  de  mufle  de  hoeuf.       Ox-cheek  soup  (brown). 

Potage  puree  degelinotte.     Grouse  soup  (brown). 

Piir&e  de  gibier  d  VAnglaise.  Game  giblet  soup. 


104  PRACTICAL   GASTRONOMY 

Potage  de  ris  de  veau  d  la  Beine. 

Sweetbread  soup,  Queen  style. 

Potage  d'asperges  a  la  Princesse. 

Asparagus  soup,  Princesse  style  (white). 

Asparagus  puree  served  with  points  of  asparagus 
and  rice. 

Potage  de  lentilles  a  la  Bnmoise. 

Lentil  soup,  Brunoise  style  (light  brown). 

Filtered  lentil  soup  with  fine- cut  vegetables. 

Potage  a  la  creme  de  riz. 

Filtered  rice  cream  soup  (white). 

Potage  d'asperges  aux  quenelles. 

Asparagus  soup  with  quenelles. 
A  puree  of  asparagus  with  small  force-meat  dump- 
lings. 

Potage  defonds  d'artichatUs. 

Artichoke  bottom  soup  (white). 
Potage  lie  aio  semoule. 

Semolina  soup  with  cream  (white). 

Potage  puree  de  pois . 

Filtered  pea  soup  with  croutons. 

Potage  aux  epinards.  Spinach  soup  (green). 

Potage  a  la  puree  de  choux-fleurs.     Cauliflower  soup. 

Puree  of  cauliflowers  with  croutons. 
Potage  d  Voseille.  Sorrel  soup  (light  green). 

A  puree  of  sorrel. 


PUREES    ET    POTAGBS    LIES  105 

Potage  de  marrons.  Puree  of  chestnuts. 

Potage  de  carottes.  Puree  of  carrots  (pink). 

Potage  puree  de  celeri  d  la  creme. 

Puree  of  celery  with  cream. 

Potage  puree  de  poireaux.    Puree  of  leeks  with  croutons. 

Potage  a  la  Victoria.  Victoria  soup. 

A  puree  of  potatoes  with  cauliflowers. 

Potage  aux  tomates.  Tomato  soup  (red). 

Potage  a  la  piiree  de  concombre.      Cucumber  soup. 

Potage  aux  oignons.  Onion  soup,  thick. 

Potage  de  sagou  au  lait.       Sago  soup  with  milk  (white). 

Potage  de  vermicelle  au  lait. 

Vermicelli  soup  with  milk  (white). 

Potage  de  tapioca  au  lait.    Tapioca  soup  with  milk. 

Potage  au  pauvre  homme.    Poor  man's  soup  (brown). 

A  kind  of  flour  soup,  the  flour  being  roasted  with 
butter  or  dripping  to  a  light  brown  colour. 

Soupe  d  la  Here.  French  beer  soup  (brown). 

Soupe  d  Voignon.  French  onion  soup  (brown). 

Potage  d  la  Tyrolienne.        Tyrolian  soup. 
Barley  cream  soup  with  onions  and  carrots. 

Puree  de  pois  verts.  Green  pea  soup. 

Potage  d  V Argenteuil.  Argenteuil  soup. 

Filtered  rice  and  cream  soup  with  asparagus  points. 


106  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

Potage  d  la  Chartreuse.        Chartreuse  soup. 
A  white  cauliflower  puree  with  tapioca. 

Potage  d  VEspagnole.  Spanish  soup. 

A  brown  soup  with  mashed  onions. 

Potage  d'esturgeon.  Sturgeon  soup  (white). 

Potage  d  la  Sever  in.  Severin  soup  (grey). 

A  Russian  fish  soup. 

Potage  aux  laitues.  Lettuce  soup  (green). 

Potage, imree  de  chamingnons. 

Mushroom  soup  (light  brown). 

Potage  de  macaroni  an  lait. 

Macaroni  soup  with  milk  (white). 

Potage  d  la  St.-Germain.     St.  Germain  soup  (green). 
A  puree  of  green  peas  with  croutons. 

Potage  a  la  Gonde.  Conde  soup  (yellow). 

A  thick  soup  made  with  dried  haricot  beans. 

Potage  d  la  Bo7naine.  Roman  soup  (white). 

A  white  thick  soup  with  small  rice  dumplings. 

Potage  d  la  pluche.  Pluche  soup  (pink). 

Potato  soup  with  minced  carrots. 

Potage  d  la  bonne  femvie.     Good  woman  soup  (green). 
Sorrel  soup  with  chicken  forcemeat  dumplings. 

Potage  d  la  Crecy,  Cressy  soup  (pink). 

Puree  of  young  carrots  with  rice  or  barley. 


PUREES    ET    POTAGES   LIES  107 

Potage  a  V Americaine.        American  soup  (red). 
Tomato  soup  with  rice. 

Potage  a  la  fermidre.  Farmhouse  soup  (pink). 

Potato  soup  with  minced  carrots  and  turnips. 

Potage  a  la  Parmentier.       Parmentier  soup  (cream). 
Potato  soup  with  croutons. 

Potage  de  santd.  Health  soup  (green). 

Sorrel  soup,  with  cabbage,  lettuce,  and  herbs. 

Potage  a  la  Palestine.  Palestine  soup  (cream). 

Jerusalem  artichoke  with  croutons. 

Potage  puree  a  la  Bretonne.  Breton  soup  (cream). 
A  puree  of  white  haricot  beans  with  croutons. 

Potage  a  la  crdme  d'orge. 

Pearl  barley  soup  with  cream  (white). 

Potage  a  la  Marie-Louise.   Marie  Louise  soup  (cream). 

Pearl  barley   soup   with   cream  and  small  chicken 
forcemeat  dumplings. 

Potage  au  velours.  Velvet  soup. 

Carrot  soup  with  rice  and  tapioca. 

Potage  au  vin  de  Bourgogne. 

Burgundy  wine  soup  (brown). 

Potage  a  V Orlea7is,maigre.  Orleans  Lent  soup  (white). 
White  bread  soup  with  milk.    . 

7 


108  PRACTICAL   GASTRONOMY 

Potage  au  pain  bis  d  la  Busse. 

Russian  brown  bread  soup. 

Brown  bread  soup  with  poached  eggs. 

Potage  d  la  marecliale.         Marshal  soup  (light  brown). 
Bread  soup  with  small  crawfish  dumplings. 

Potage  a  la  cr^me  d'avoine. 

Oatmeal  soup  with  cream  (white). 

Potage  d  la  crdme  de  hie  vert  aux  c&ufs. 

Green  corn  soup  with  eggs  (green). 

Potage  GarhuredVItalienne.    Garbure  soup  (brown). 
An  Italian  soup  made  of  cabbage  and  bread. 

Potage  dla  bouille-d-baisse.  Bouille-a-baisse  soup  (brown). 
Fish  soup  with  onions,  tomatoes,  &c. 

Potage  ;purde  de  canard  a  V Atiglaise, 

Duck  giblet  soup  (brown). 

Potage  purde  d' aubergine. 

Vegetable  marrow  soup  (white). 

Potage  aux  bicasses.  Woodcock  soup  (brown). 

Puree  a  la  Chantilly.  Chantilly  soup  (cream). 

Lentil  soup,  thickened  with  cream  and  egg  yolks. 

Potage  d  la  Flamande.        Flemish  soup. 
A  white  root  soup. 


PUREES    ET    POTAGBS    LIES  109 

Potage  d  la  Bagratioji.        Bagration  soup  (white). 
Veal  broth  with  small  chicken  forcemeat  balls. 

Potage  d  VIrlandaise.  Irish  soup  (brown). 

A  thick  mutton  broth. 

Purde  de  poisson  d  la  Bagration.      Bagration  fish  soup. 
Fish  puree  with  quenelles  and  white  wine. 


POISSONS— FISH 
Aigrefin  (merluche). — Fresh  Haddock. 

Aigrefin  grille.  Broiled  haddock. 

Aigrefin  d  la  maitre  d'hotel. 

Steamed  haddock  with  parsley  butter. 
Aigrefin  Mouffe.  Steamed  haddock. 

Filets  d'aigrefins  frits,  sauce  Tartare. 

Fillets  of  fresh  haddock  fried ;  Tartare  sauce. 


Able  sautd  d  la  diable.         Devilled  bleak  in  butter. 
Alose  au  gratin.  Baked  shad,  gratin  style. 


Anguille. — Eel. 

Anguille  d  VAnglaise.  Stewed  eel,  English  style. 

Anguille  d  la  Tartare.  Eel,  Tartare  style. 

Parboiled  eel,  cut  in  pieces,  drained,  dipped  in 
batter,  fried,  dished  up  en  couronne  with  Tartare  sauce 
in  centre. 


110  PKACTICAL    GASTE0:N0MY 

Blanquette  d'angvAlle.  Stewed  eel,  white. 

Aiiguille  d  Vltalienne.  Eel  stewed,  Italian  style. 

Consists  of  stewed  eels,  with  small  rice  timbales. 
AnguUle  en  caisses.  Eel  in  paper  cases. 

Anguille  d  la  matelotte.       Eel,  seaman's  way. 

Stewed  eel  with  claret  and  mushrooms. 
Anguille  d  la  broclie.       Grilled  eel  with  parsley  butter. 
Anguille  glacee.  Glazed  eel. 

Rolled  fillets  of  eel,  broiled  and  glazed  with  a  rich 
sauce. 

Anguille  d  la  poulette.         Fricasseed  eel. 
Anguille  d  la  Provengale.     Fried  eel,  Tartare  sauce. 
Friture  d" anguille.  Eel  spitchcocked. 

Skinned  and  boned  pieces   of  eel,  seasoned,  egged, 
crumbed,  fried,  and  served  with  piquante  sauce. 


Brochet.— Pike. 


Brocket  frit.  Fried  pike. 

Brochet  grille.  Broiled  pike. 

Filets  de  brochet  piqu6  d  la  Colbert. 

Fillets  of  pike,  Colbert  style. 

Filleted  pike,   larded,  steamed  in   the  oven,   with 
white  wine  sauce. 
Filets  de  brochet  d  la  Lyonnaise. 

Fillets  of  pike,  Lyonese  style. 

Fillets  of  pike  stewed  in  white  wine,  and  garnished 
with  small  marble- shaped  potatoes  cooked  in  fish  stock. 


POISSONS — FISH  111 

Brocket  d  la  Castelaine.       Pike,  Castelaine  style. 

Pike,  inside  filled  with  sliced  truffles,  tongue,  and  lard, 
braised,  served   with  white  sauce  and  a  garniture  of 
lobster  meat,  truffles,  and  oysters. 
Brocket  d  Vancienne.  Pike,  ancient  style. 

Stewed  pike,  served  with  white  sauce,  garnished  with 
truffles,  gherkins,  mushrooms,  and  capers. 
Brocket  d  la  remoulade.       Pike,  remoulade  style. 

Boiled  pike  served  cold  with  a  thick  Tartare  and 
mustard  sauce. 
Brocket  farci  et  gratind. 

Stuffed  pike,  baked  in  gratin  style. 
Brocket  d  la  Cavour.  Pike,  Cavour  style. 

Broiled  pike  garnished  with  nouilles,  grated  horse- 
radish, and  carrots,  served  with  rich  veloute  sauce. 


Barbue. — Brill. 

Barbue  hoidlUe.  Boiled  brill. 

Barhue  au  gratin.  Baked  brill,  gratin  style. 

Filets  de  barbue  frite.  Fried  fillets  of  brill. 

Blanckailles  au  naturel.  Plain  fried  whitebait. 

Blanckailles  d  la  diable.  Whitebait  devilled. 

Bouille-d-baisse.  French  fish  stew. 

Fish  stew  made  from  various  kinds  of  fish  and 
lobster  flavoured  with  garlic,  savoury  herbs,  and  white 
wine. 

Beignets  de  dames.  Clam  fritters. 

Beignets  d'huitres.  Oyster  fritters. 

Beignets  de  grenouilles.  Frogs'  legs  fritters. 


112  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

Beignets  d'ecrevisses.  Crayfish  fritters. 

Beignets  d^escargots.  Snail  fritters. 

Buissons  de  homard.  Bush  of  lobsters. 

Lobster  dressed  in  a  pyramidal  form. 
Goquilles  de  monies.  Scolloped  mussels. 

Coquilles  de  homards.  Coquilles  of  lobster. 

Stewed  lobster  served  in  shells.  Scolloped  lobster. 
Coquilles  de  poissons.  Coquilles  of  fish. 

Stewed  fish  served  in  shells.     Scolloped  fish. 
Coquilles  de  crevettes.  Coquilles  of  shrimps. 

Coquilles  aux  huitres.  Coquilles  of  oyster. 

Coquilles  aux  queues  d'ecrevisses. 

Coquilles  of  crayfish  tails. 
Pitoncles  gratines.  Scolloped  coUops. 


Cabillaud. — Codfish. 

Cabillaud  bouilli.  Boiled  cod. 

Cabillaud,  saux)e  aux  huitres. 

Boiled  cod,  oyster  sauce. 
Cabillaud  a  VAnglaise. 

Boiled  cod  with  melted  butter. 
Cabillaud  au  gratin.  Baked  cod,  gratin  style. 

Cabillaud  bouilli  aux  cdpres. 

Boiled  cod,  with  caper  sauce. 
Cabillaud  e7i  coquilles.        Cod  fish  in  shells. 
Cabillaud  a  la  Diejpjjoise.     Cod,  Dieppe  style. 

Slices  of  cod,  dipped  in  milk  and  flour,  fried,  drained, 
and  served  with  white  matelotte  sauce. 


POISSONS — FISH  113 

Cabillaud  d  la  Portugaise.  Cod,  Portuguese  style. 

Slices  of  cod  fried,  served  with  a  sauce  composed  of 
tomato  sauce,  essence  of  anchovy,  and  mussels. 
Cabillaud  grilU  a  la  Colbert.     Grilled  cod,  Colbert  style. 

Slices  of  cod  dipped  in  dissolved  butter  and  well 
floured,  grilled,  and  served  with  maitre  d'hotel  butter. 
Cabillaud  a  VIndienne.      Grilled  cod  with  curry  sauce. 
Cabillaud  frit  J  sauce  anchois. 

Fried  cod  and  anchovy  sauce. 
Cabillaud  aux  crevettes.    Boiled  cod  and  shrimp  sauce. 

Crabe  farcie.  Dressed  and  stuffed  crab. 


Carpe. — Carp. 

Carpe  au  bleu.  Boiled  carp. 

Carjpe  gratin^e.  Baked  carp. 

Carpe  farcie.  Stuffed  carp. 

Carpe  frite.  Fried  carp. 

Carrelet. — Flounder. 

Souchet  de  carrelet.  Souchet  of  flounder. 

Boiled  flounder  with  finely  cut  strips  of  carrots  and 
turnips. 

Carrelet  frit^  sauce  persil. 

Fried  flounder,  parsley  sauce. 


Eperlans. — Smelt. 
Eperlans  gratines.  Baked  smelts. 

Eperlans  frits.  Fried  smelts. 

Eperlans  a  la  diable.  Fried  smelts  devilled. 


114  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

Ecrevisses  farcies.  Stuffed  crawfish. 

Escargots  d  I'Anglaise.        Stewed  snails. 


Esturgeon. — Sturgeon. 

E sturgeon  hraisd.  Braised  sturgeon. 

Esturgeon  a  Vanchois. 

Boiled  sturgeon  with  anchovy  sauce. 

Esturgeon  a  la  cardinal.      Sturgeon,  cardinal  style. 

Boiled  sturgeon  garnished  with  quenelles  of  whiting 
and  crayfish,  and  served  with  cardinal  sauce. 
Papillotes  d' esturgeon.     Stewed  sturgeon  in  paper  cases. 
Dame  d' esturgeon  a  la  Milanaise. 

Sturgeon  steak,  Milanese  style. 

Middle  piece  or  steak  of  sturgeon  stewed,  garnished 
with  eel-pout  hvers  and  crayfish  tails. 


Goujon.  A  kind  of  whitebait. 

Grenouilles  f rites.  Fried  frogs. 

Ealibute  au  gratin.  Baked  haUbut. 

Halihute  grillee,  sauce  crevettes. 

Grilled  halibut,  shrimp  sauce. 


Hareng. — Herring. 

Hareng  frais  grille.  Fresh  herring  grilled. 

Hareng  au  beurre.  Broiled  herring  in  butter* 

Hareng  a  la  motUarde. 

Grilled  herring  with  mustard  sauce. 
Hareng  a  la  maitre  d'hotel. 

Grilled  herring  with  parsley  butter. 


POISSONS — FISH  115 

Homard. — Lobster. 

Homard  d  VAm^ricaine.      Lobster,  American  style. 

Lobster  stewed  in  the  shell  with  tomato  sauce,  red 
wine,  and  fine  herbs  seasoning. 
Homard  a  la  Bechamel.    Baked  lobster,  Bechamel  style. 

Shells  of  lobster  stuffed  with  a  mixture  of  minced 
lobster  meat,  Bechamel  sauce,  and  seasoning,  and  baked. 
Homard  a  la  Suedoise.         Lobster,  Swedish  fashion. 

Border  of   lobster  meat  and  forcemeat,  poached  in 
a  fancy  border  mould  and  sauced  with  anchovy  sauce. 
Homard  a  la  Gloucester.     Lobster,  Gloucester  style. 

Stewed  lobster,  the  meat  only  being  dished  up,  and 
served  with  a  sauce  composed   of   pulverised    lobster 
shell,  butter,  egg  yolks,  and  meat  extract. 
Homard  farci.  Stuffed  lobster. 

Homard  en  mayonnaise.      Lobster  mayonnaise. 
Homard  en  salade.  Lobster  salad. 

Homard  a  VIndienne.  Curried  lobster. 

Gotelettes  de  homard  a  la  tomate. 

Lobster  cutlets  with  tomato  sauce. 
Homard  au  gratiii.  Baked  lobster,  gratin  style. 


Huitres. — Oysters. 

Huitres  grilUes.  Grilled  oysters. 

Huitres  a  la  poulette.  Fricasseed  oysters. 

Huitres  frites.  Fried  oysters. 

Huitres  en  coquilles.  Scolloped  oysters. 

Huitres  a  la  Duxelles.  Oyster  stew  baked  in  shells. 


116  PRACTICAL   GASTRONOMY 

Lamproie. — Lamprey. 

Lamj^roie  sauUe  a  la  Frangaise. 

Stewed  lamprey,  French  style. 
Lamproie  en  fricassee.         Fricasseed  lamprey. 


Limande. — Burt. 

Limande  aux  ^perlans.      Boiled  burt  with  fried  smelts. 


Maquereaux. — Mackerel. 

Maquereau  a  la  7naUre  d'hotel. 

Broiled  mackerel  with  parsley  butter. 
Maquereau  a  la  Flamande. 

Broiled  mackerel  with  Flemish  sauce. 
Filets  de  maquereau  a  VIndienne. 

Fillets  of  mackerel,  Indian  style. 
Braised  fillets   of   mackerel,    served  with   a  curry 
sauce  diluted  with  white  wine. 

Filets  de  maquereau  au  vin  blanc. 

Broiled  mackerel  with  white  wine  sauce. 

Filet  de  maquereau  au  gratin. 

Baked  fillets  of  mackerel,  gratin  style. 
Maquereau  a  Veau  de  sel.    Boiled  mackerel. 

Maquereau  au  persil. 

Boiled  mackerel  and  parsley  sauce. 
Maquereau  a  la  Boulonnaise.  Mackerel,  Boulonese  style. 
Boiled  mackerel,  garnished  with  mussels  and  oysters, 
served  with  white  fish  sauce. 
Maquereau  bouilliy  sauce  cdpres. 

Boiled  mackerel  and  caper  sauce. 


POISSONS — FISH  117 

Merlan. — Whiting. 

Merlan  bouilli  d  VAnglaise. 

Boiled  whiting  with  parsley  sauce. 
Merlans  grilles.  Boiled  whiting. 

Merlans  an  gratin.  Baked  whiting,  gratin  style. 

Filets  de  merlans  a  la  maitre  d'hotel. 

Fillets  of  whiting,  hotel-keeper's  style. 

Broiled  fillets  of  whiting  done  in  parsley  butter. 
Filets  de  merlans  d  la  comtesse. 

Fillets  of  whiting,  countess  style. 

Baked  fillets  of  whiting,  dressed  in  paper  cases  with 
a  garnish  of  crayfish  tails  and  liver  forcemeat  balls. 
Filets  de  merlans  frits  d  la  tomate. 

Fried  fillets  of  whiting  and  tomato  sauce. 
Merlan  frit  d  la  Frangaise.  Fried  whiting,  French  style. 

The  fish  is  wiped,  and  scored  along  the  sides,  but  not 
skinned,  dipped  in  milk,  well  floured,  and  fried  in  fat 
until  crisp,  served  with  anchovy  or  shrimp  sauce. 
Filets  de  merlans  d  VOrly.  Fillets  of  whiting,  Orly  style. 

Filleted  whiting,  seasoned,  dipped  in  white  of  ^gg 
and  flour,  fried  crisp,  and  served  with  tomato  sauce. 
Merlan  d  Vltalienne.  Whiting,  Italian  style. 

Steamed  whiting  with  brown  mushroom  sauce. 
Merlans  d  la  bonne  femme. 

Stewed  whiting  with  Bordelaise  sauce. 
Blanquette  de  merlans.        Filleted  whiting  fricasseed. 

Merluche  ou  Aigrefin. — Haddock. 

Merluche  etouff&e.  Steamed  haddock. 

Merluche  cuite  au  four.        Haddock  baked  in  the  oven. 


118  PRACTICAL  GASTRONOMY 

Morue. — Salt  Cod. 

Monte  a  la  ca;pucine.        Boiled  salt  cod  with  egg  sauce. 

Tete  de  morue  aux  huitres. 

Cod's  head  with  oyster  sauce. 
Monte  aux  fines  herbes. 

Broiled  salt  cod,  with  fine  herb  butter. 


Moules. — Mussels. 

Monies  a  la  mariniere. 

Stewed  mussels  with  onion  and  parsley  sauce. 

Moules  a  la  Bourguignonne. 

Stewed  mussels  in  red  wine. 
Moules  en  coquilles.  Scolloped  mussels. 

Moules  a  la  poulette.       Stewed  mussels  in  white  sauce. 
Moules  a  la  Californie.        Mussels,  California  style. 

Stewed  mussels  with  slightly  fried  sliced  tomatoes, 
chopped  onions,  parsley,  and  veloute  sauce. 


Ombre. — Grayling. 
Ombre  au  bleu.  Boiled  grayUng. 

Ombre  d  la  maitre  d'hotel. 

Broiled  grayling  with  parsley  butter. 


Pile.— Plaice. 

Pliefrite.  Fried  plaice. 

Filets  de  jplie  au  vin  blanc. 

Fillets  of  plaice  with  white  wine  sauce. 


POISSONS — FISH  119 

Filets  de  plie  frite  d  la  Tartare. 

Fried  fillets  of  plaice,  Tartare  sauce. 
Filets  de  plie,  sauce  persil. 

Broiled  fillets  of  plaice,  parsley  sauce. 
Filets  de  plie  frite,  satice  anchois. 

Fried  fillets  of  plaice,  anchovy  sauce, 

Raie. — Skate. 

Baie  a  la  poulette.        Boiled  skate  with  parsley  sauce, 
Baie  au  heurre  iwir.     Boiled  skate  with  brown  butter. 


Rougets. — Red  Mullet. 

Bougets  a  Vltalienne. 

Broiled  red  mullet  with  Italian  sauce. 
Bougets  au  gratin.  Baked  red  mullet,  gratin  style. 

Bougets  aux  fines  herbes. 

Stewed  red  mullet,  with  fine  herbs  sauce. 
Bougets  grilles,  sauce  ravigote. 

Grilled  mullets  and  ravigote  sauce. 
Bougets  au  heurre  fondu. 

Broiled  mullets  with  melted  butter. 
Bougets  en  papillotes.  Bed  mullets  in  papers. 

The  fish  after  being  prepared  for  cooking  are 
wrapped  separately  in  oiled  paper,  the  ends  are  twisted, 
they  are  then  broiled,  dished  up,  and  served  with  fine 
herbs  sauce. 


Benke  a  la  broche.        Grilled  renk. 


120  PRACTICAL   GASTRONOMY 

Samnon. — Salmon. 

Saumon  bouillii  sauce  liollandaise. 

Boiled  salmon,  Dutch  sauce. 
Saumon  grilU  au  beurre  d'anchois. 

Grilled  salmon  with  anchovy  butter. 

Saumon  grilU  au  persil. 

Grilled  salmon  with  parsley  butter. 

SauTfion  a  la  Michat  Pacha. 

Boiled  salmon  with  date  sauce. 
Saum/^n  a  la  Godard.     Salmon,  Godard  style. 

Braised  salmon  with  a  collection  of  stewed  vegeta- 
bles, dressed  round  the  dish. 

Saumon  a  la  Victoria.     Salmon,  Victoria  style. 

Broiled  salmon,  with  stewed  oysters,  crawfish  dump- 
lings, and  Madeira  sauce. 

Saumon  a  la  Piemontaise.     Salmon,  Piedmontese  style. 
Fried    fillets    of   salmon,   garnished  with  timbale- 
shaped  rice  dumplings  and  tomato  sauce. 

Saumx)n  d  la  Hollandaise. 

Boiled  salmon  with  Dutch  sauce. 
Saumon  a  la  Bothschild.       Salmon,  Rothschild  style. 

Also  called  Saumon  a  la  Perigueux. 

Broiled  salmon  trout  stuffed  with  truffles,  and  ser- 
ved with  truffle  sauce. 

Saumon  en  tranches  a  la  meuniere. 

Slices  of  salmon,  meuniere  style. 
Slices  of   salmon   braised   and   served  with  a  rich 
brown  sauce  flavoured  with  savoury  herbs. 


POISSONS — FISH  121 

Filets  de  saumon  sautes  d  la  Perigueiix. 

Braised  fillets  of  salmon  with  truffle  sauce. 
Hure  de  saumon  aux  truffes. 

Braised  salmon's  head  with  truffles. 
Escalopes  de  saumon  a  Vhidienne. 

Salmon  cutlets  fried  with  curry  sauce  and  rice. 
Paupiettes  de  saumon  aux  huitres. 

Paupiettes  of  salmon  with  oysters. 
KoUed  fillets  of  salmon  with  stewed  oysters  braised 
and  served  with  a  rich  brown  sauce. 
Mayonnaise  de  saumon.        Salmon  mayonnaise. 
Queue  de  saumon  aux  huitres. 

Braised  tail-piece  of  salmon  with  stewed  oysters. 
Dames  de  saumon  aux  fines  herbes. 

Grilled  salmon  steak  with  parsley  sauce. 
Paupiettes  de  saumon  a  la  rigence. 

Salmon  paupiettes,  Eegent  style. 
Rolled  fillet   of   salmon,   stuffed   and   served  with 
Regent  sauce. 

Saumon  d  la  Bichelieu.        Salmon,  Richelieu  style. 
Grilled  pickled  salmon  with  tomato  sauce. 
Escalope  de  saumon  d  la  Nantaise. 
CoUops  of  salmon,  cut  from  the  tail  piece,  seasoned 
and  broiled  in  butter,  dished  up  alternately  with  thin 
coUops   of    lobster,   dressed  with   stewed    oysters  and 
lobster  sauce. 

Dame  de  saumon  d  Vamiral, 
Boiled   middle-cut   of   salmon   skinned,  dished  up, 
sauced  with  a  lightly  buttered  brown  fish  sauce,  and 
garnished  with  fried  oysters  and  lobster  coUops. 


122  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

Dame  de  saumon  a  la  Chamhord. 
Boiled  middle-cut   of  salmon,  skinned,  dished  up, 
garnished   with   fish   quenelles,   heads   of   mushrooms, 
cooked   oysters,    slices   of  truffles    and    a   few  cooked 
cra}^sh,  sauced  with  a  rich  brown  fish  sauce. 

Grenadins  de  saumon  a  la  Venitienne. 

Fillets  of  salmon,  larded,  seasoned  and  braised, 
dressed  in  a  circle  alternately  with  heart-shaped 
bread  croutons,  sauced  with  a  well-buttered  parsley 
sauce. 

Hure  de  saumon  d  la  Camhac&r^s. 

Braised  head-piece  of  salmon,  garnished  with 
small  truffles,  mushrooms,  and  stoned  olives,  sauced 
with  a  rich  brown  fish  sauce  seasoned  with  cayenne 
and  lemon  juice. 

Hure  de  saumon  d  la  ProveJicale. 
Braised     head-piece    of     salmon,    garnished    with 
stoned    parboiled    ohves,    served    with   a   brown    fish 
sauce,  flavoured  with  chopped  shallots,  parsley,  garlic, 
and  lemon  juice. 

Sole.— Sole. 

Sole  grilUe  d  la  maitre  d'hotel. 

Grilled  sole  with  parsley  butter. 

Sole  au  gratin.  Baked  sole,  gratin  style. 

Solefrite  d  VAnglaise. 

Fried  sole,  with  anchovy  sauce  or  melted  butter. 

Sole  frite  d  la  Colbert.  Sole,  Colbert  style. 

Fried  sole,  stuffed  with  fine  herb  butter. 


POISSONS — FISH  123 

Sole  au  vm  blanc. 

Braised  sole,  with  white  wine  sauce. 

Sole  f rite  a  la  gastronome. 

Stuffed  fried  sole  with  shrimp  sauce. 

Filets  de  sole  d  VOrly,  Fillets  of  sole,  Orly  style. 

Fried  fillets   of  sole  with  tomato   sauce  and  fried 
parsley. 
Filets  de  sole  a  la  Joinville. 

Fillets  of  sole,  Joinville  style. 

Rolled  fillets  of  sole,  dressed  with  truffles,  prawns, 
crawfish,  smelts,  and  small  fish  quenelles. 
Mayonnaise  de  sole.  Mayonnaise  of  soles. 

Soles  en  souchet.  Souchet  of  soles. 

Boiled  soles  with   finely-cut   strips   of   carrot  and 
turnips  and  chopped  parsley. 
Escalo;pes  de  soles  a  la  Version. 

Scallops  of  soles,  Vernon  style. 

Braised  fillets  of  soles  dressed  on  rice,  garnished 
with  stewed  oysters  and  mussels. 

Filets  de  sole  a  la  Dauphine. 

Sole  fillets  spread  over  with  a  mixture  of  force- 
meat, chopped  shallots,  parsley,  and  mushrooms, 
folded,  braised,  pressed,  pared  when  cold,  egged, 
crumbed,  fried,  dished  up,  and  served  with  lobster 
sauce.     Lobster  claws  are  inserted  in  the  small  end  of 

each  fillet. 

Filets  de  sole  a  la  Trouville. 

Folded  fillets,  seasoned,  broiled  in  saute  pan  with 
white  wine  and  mushroom  juice,  dressed  with  mush- 
rooms, oysters,  fresh  bread  crumbs,  and  white  sauce. 
Surface  coloured  in  oven  and  served. 

8 


124  PRACTICAL  gastrono:my 

Filets  cle  sole  a  la  Marecliale. 
Stewed  fillets  of  sole  in  white  sauce  well  reduced, 
set  to  cool,  after  which  they  are  shaped,  crumbed,  egged, 
and  crumbed  again,  fried  in  clarified  butter,  dressed  in 
a  circular  form  on  a  folded  napkin.  Bechamel  sauce  is 
served  with  them  in  a  sauce-boat. 

Filets  de  sole  a  la  Venitienne. 

Folded  fillets,  done  in  the  saute  pan,  with  seasoning, 
white  wine,  butter,  and  parsley,  dressed  en  couronne, 
garnished  with  mushroom  heads,  sauced  with  a  rich 
hollandaise  sauce. 

Hdtelets  de  sole  d  la  Villeroi. 

Rolled  sole  fillets  stuffed  with  forcemeat,  placed 
on  silver  skewers,  seasoned,  crumbed,  and  baked  in 
the  saute  pan.  A  slightly  buttered  tomato  sauce  is 
served  with  them.        

Sterlet.— Sterlet. 

Sterlet  a  la  Busse.  Sterlet,  Russian  style. 

Broiled  sterlet  with  braised  button  onions,  small  ball- 
shaped  fried  potatoes,  and  ancho\7  sauce. 
Sterlet  aii  hleu.  Boiled  sterlet. 


Tanche. — Tenche. 

Tanclie  au  hleu.  Boiled  tench. 

Tanche  a  la  maitre  d'hotel. 

Broiled  tench  with  parsley  butter. 

Tanche  grillee  au  beurre  d'ancJiois. 

Grilled  tench  with  anchovy  butter. 


POISSONS — FISH  126 

Truite.— Trout. 

Truite  au  bleu.  Trout  boiled  in  water  and  white 

wine  flavoured  with  herbs. 
Truite  d  la  meuniere.  Trout,  meuniere  style. 

Braised    trout    served    with    burnt    butter,    bread 
crumbs,  and  chopped  parsley. 
Truite  frite.  Fried  trout. 

Truite  a  la  maitre  d'hotel. 

Broiled  trout  with  parsley  butter. 
Truite  au  beurre  d'anchois. 

Broiled  trout  with  anchovy  butter. 
Filets  de  truite  d  la  tomate. 

Fried  fillets  of  trout  with  tomato  sauce. 
Truite  saumonee  bouUlie.     Boiled  salmon  trout. 
Filets  de  truite  au  vin  blanc. 

Broiled  fillets  of  trout  with  white  wine  sauce. 
Truite  marinee.  Soused  or  pickled  trout. 

Truite  d  la  vinaigrette.         Trout,  vinaigrette  style. 

Cold    boiled    trout    served   with   vinegar    and    oil 
dressing,  chopped  gherkins,  capers,  and  parsley. 
Truite  aux  petits  pois.      Broiled  trout  with  green  peas. 


Turbot.— Turbot. 

Turbot  bouilli.  Boiled  turbot. 

Filets  de  turbot  frits.  Fried  fillets  of  turbot. 

Turbot,  sauce  aux  hidtres. 

Boiled  turbot  and  oyster  sauce. 


126  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

Turhot,  sauce  auxcrevettes. 

Boiled  turbot  and  shrimp  sauce. 

Turhot,  sauce  homard. 

Boiled  turbot  and  lobster  sauce. 

Filets  de  ttirhot  au  vin  hlanc. 

Broiled  fillets  of  turbot  with  white  wine  sauce. 

Filets  de  turhot  d  la  maitre  d' hotel. 

Broiled  fillets  of  turbot  with  parsley  butter. 

Turhot,  sauce  aux  ORufs.        Boiled  turbot  and  egg  sauce. 

Tttrhot,  sauce  aux  anchois. 

Boiled  turbot  and  anchovy  sauce. 

Turhot  a  la  Beyniere.  Turbot,  Reyniere  style. 

Stewed  turbot  served  in  shells,  dressed  with  shrimp 
sauce. 


RELEVES   ET   GROSSES  PIECES. 

REMOVES. 

Dishes  served  after  hors-d'oeuvre  or  after  fish,  as  top  and 
bottom  dishes  (as  they  are  designated  in  England). 

Aloyati  de  hceuf  hraise.        Braised  sirloin  of  beef. 

Aloyau  de  hczuf  hraise  a  XFs'^agnole. 

Braised  sirloin  of  beef  with  button  onions. 

Aloyau  de  hc&uf  hraise  a  la  Nivernaise. 

Braised  sirloin  of  beef  with  small 
round  French  carrots. 


RELEVES REMOVES  127 

Aloyau  de  hoeuf  a  la  Flamande. 

Braised  sirloin  of  beef  with  various  kinds  of 

vegetables  dressed  round  the  dish. 

Bc&uf  braise  d  la  mode.       Braised  beef  with  vegetables. 

BcBuf  bouilli  a  VAnglaise. 

Salt  boiled  beef  with  carrots,  turnips,  and 

suet  dumplings. 
Boduf  houilli  a  la  Frangaise. 

Boiled  beef  with  carrots  and  turnips. 
BoRuf  bouilli  a  la  Btisse. 

Boiled  beef  with  cucumber  salad. 

Bo^2if  bouilli  a  la  jardiniere. 
Parboiled  and  braised  beef  with  small  spring  vege- 
tables. 

Boe.uf  bouilli  aux  cdpres.     Boiled  beef  with  caper  sauce. 

Beefsteak  pie  a  VAnglaise.   English  steak  pie. 

Cote  de  bceuf  braise.  Braised  boned  ribs  of  beef. 

Cote  de  bceuf  braise  a  la  Flama^ide. 
Braised  boned  ribs  of  beef  with  turnips  and  small 
stuffed  spring  cabbages. 

Chdteaubriant  a  la  jardiniere. 
Double  fillet  steak  with  braised  spring  vegetables. 

Cote  de  bceuf  braisd  a  la  Normande. 
Braised  ribs  of  beef  with  mashed  potatoes  and  young 
French  carrots  glazed. 

Chdteaubriant  aux  truffes. 

Double  fillet  steak  with  truffle  sauce. 


128  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

Cote  de  bceuf  braise  d  la  Saint  Hubert. 
Braised  ribs  of  beef  with  stuffed  cabbages,  lettuces 
and  braised  button  onions. 

Culotte  de  bceuf  braise  a  VEsimgnole. 
Braised  round  of  beef  with  braised  button  onions. 

Culotte  de  bceuf  d  VAnglaise. 
Boiled  round  of  beef,  with  vegetables  and  dumplings. 

Piece  de  bceuf  fumee  d  la  Piemontaise. 
Smoked  and  braised  beef,  with  macaroni  and  to- 
matoes. 

Entrecote  d  Vltalienne. 

Grilled  rump-steak  with  spinach,  braised  tomatoes, 
and  mashed  potatoes. 

Entrecote  d  VAllemande. 
Grilled  rump -steak  with  mashed  potatoes  and  grated 
horse  radish. 

Entrecote  d  la  Saint- Cloud. 
Grilled  rump-steak  with   small   patties   filled  with 
mashed  green  peas,  beans,  and  young  round  carrots. 


Entrecote  a  la  Franqaise. 
Grilled  steak  with  stuffed  tomatoes  and  fried  potatoes, 
dumplings. 

Entrecote  a  la  Bordelaise. 

Grilled  steak  with  slices  of  beef  marrow  and  Bor- 
delaise sauce. 

N.B.— All  steaks  for  Entrecotes  should  be  cut  oflf  from  ribs 
of  beef. 


RELEVES — REMOVES  129 

Filet  de  hceuf  a  la  Bichelieii. 
Braised  and  larded  fillet   of  beef,   garnished  with 
stuffed  tomatoes,  truffles,  and  mushrooms. 

Filet  de  hceuf  a  la  paysanne. 
Braised  fillet  of  beef  garnished  with  celery,  turnips, 
carrots,  and  young  kidney  potatoes. 

Filet  de  hceuf  a  la  Palestine. 
Roast  larded  fillet  of  beef  garnished  with  braised 
artichokes,  parsnips,  and  button  onions. 

Filet  de  hceuf  a  la  Louis  XV. 
Braised  larded  fillet  of  beef  garnished  with  stuffed 
fried  potatoes. 

Filet  de  hoeuf  a  la  Parisienne. 
Roast   larded  fillet   of  beef    garnished   with  small 
marble-shaped  braised  potatoes. 

Filet  de  hceuf  a  la  Strashourgeoise. 
Roast    fillet    of    beef   garnished    with    sauerkraut 
(pickled  cabbages),  rolled  braised  ham,  Frankfort  sausage, 
and  mashed  potatoes. 

Filet  de  hoe>if  a  Vancienne. 
Braised  fillet  of  beef,  garnished  with  slices  of  hard- 
boiled  eggs,  crumbed  and  fried,  braised  haricot  beans, 
and  braised  lettuces. 

Beefsteak  d'aloyau.  Porterhouse  steak. 

Filet  de  hceuf  piqua7it. 
Pickled  fillet  of  beef,  braised  and  served  with  piquant 
sauce  (see  Sauces). 

La7igue  de  hceuf  hraisee.    Braised  smoked  ox-tongue. 


130  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

Boast  beef  a  la  C destine. 
Roast  boned  sirloin  of  beef,  with  baked  oval- shaped 
potatoes  and  rolled  stuffed  pancakes,  cut  into  one-inch 
pieces,  which  are  egged,  crumbed,  and  fried  in  clarified 
butter,  and  served  with  the  potatoes. 

Boast  beef  a  la  Piemontaise. 
Roast  boned  ribs   of  beef   served  with  cooked  rice 
boiled  in  meat  gra\7,  spiced  with  saffron,  and  garnished 
with  fried  potatoes. 

B(Buf  braise  d  la  Bernoise. 
Braised  beef  with  stewed  nouilles  and  potatoes. 

Boast  beef  a  la  Lorraine. 
Roast  sirloin  of  beef  garnished  with  braised  button 
onions,  potatoes,  and  braised  spring  cabbages. 

Boast  beef  a  la  Palermo. 
Roast  sirloin  of  beef  (boned),  garnished  with  braised 
potatoes  and  small  stuffed  vegetable  marrows. 

Filet  de  bceuf  a  la  Clairemo7it. 
Roast  fillet  of  beef,  larded,  garnished  with  braised 
potatoes  and  glazed  chestnuts. 

Filet  de  bo^uf  a  la  Toscane. 
Roast  fillet  of  beef,  larded,  garnished  with  artichoke 
bottoms  stuffed,  tomatoes,  and  small  braised  Brussels 
sprouts. 

Quartier  d'agneau  a  la  Flamande. 
Roast  quarter  of  lamb  garnished  with  braised  turnips 
and  small  stuffed  spring  cabbages. 


RELEVES^ — REMOVES  131 

Poitrme  d'agneau  a  la  Soubise. 
Stuffed  breast  of  lamb  with  onion  puree. 

Selle  d'agneau  a  la  Bretonne. 
Eoast  saddle  of   lamb    with  mashed  white  haricot 
beans. 

Selle  d'agneau  a  la  Milanaise. 
Eoast  saddle   of  lamb   with  macaroni  and  tomato 
puree. 

Selle  d'agneau  rotie  a  la  Parisienne. 
Roast  saddle   of   lamb  with   small  marble- shaped 
fried  potatoes. 

Crigot  de  mouton  braise  a  la  Soubise, 
Braised  leg  of  mutton  with  onion  puree. 

Gigot  de  mouton  braise  en  clievreuiL 
Pickled  leg  of  mutton  braised. 

Gigot  de  mouton  a  VAnglaise. 
Boiled  leg  of  mutton,  with  carrots,  turnips,  and  caper 
sauce. 

Gigot  de  mouton  braise  a  la  Turgiie. 
Braised  leg  of  mutton  with  stuffed  cucumbers. 

Selle  de  mouton  a  la  jardiniere. 
Roast  saddle  of  mutton  garnished  with  a  mixture  of 
spring  vegetables. 

Selle  de  mouton  a  la  principal. 
Roast  saddle  of  mutton  garnished  with  veal  dump- 
lings, coarsely-chopped  truffles,  fried  Parisian  potatoes, 
rice,  and  Madeira  sauce. 


132  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

Gigot  de  moutoii  a  la  providence. 
Roast  leg  of  mutton  served  with  stewed  chestnuts 
(whole),  sliced  mushrooms,  and  truffles. 

Gigot  de  mouton  houilli  a  VAnglaise. 
Boiled  leg  of  mutton  garnished  with  boiled  young 
carrots,  turnips,  cauliflower,  French  beans,  and  Brussels 
sprouts,  served  with  caper  sauce. 

Gigot  de  mouton  braise,  sauce  j^ioivrade. 
Pickled  leg  of  mutton  braised  and  served  with  pepper 
sauce. 

Cochon  de  lait  braise.  Braised  sucking  pig. 

Cochon  de  lait  d  la  brocJie.  Roast  sucking  pig. 
Cochon  de  lait  farci.  Roast  stujffed  sucking  pig. 

Selle  de  pore  a  VAlsacieyine. 
Roast  saddle  of  pork  with  sauerkraut,  dumplings,  and 
Strasbourg  sausages. 

Carre  de  pore  braise.  Braised  neck  of  pork. 

Gigot  de  pore  frais,  satice  Bobert. 
Roast  leg  of  pork  with  brown  onion  sauce. 

Gigot  de  pore  bouilli  d  VAnglaise. 
Boiled  leg  of  salt  pork  with  carrots,  turnips,  parsnips, 
and  pease  pudding. 

Jambon  au  Madere.       Boiled  ham  with  Madeira  sauce. 

Jambon  de  Westphalie  braise.  Westphalian  ham  braised. 

Jambon  a  la  Boederer. 
Braised  ham  with  champagne  sauce. 

Longe  de  pore  farcie.     Braised  and  stuffed  loin  of  pork. 


KELEVES REMOVES  133 

Carre  de  veau  garni. 
Eoast  neck  of  veal,  garnished  with  braised  vege- 
tables. 

Longe  de  veau  a  la  Francaise. 
Roast  loin  of  veal  garnished  with  stuffed  tomatoes 
and  potato  croquettes. 

Longe  de  veau  a  la  Genevoise. 
Braised  loin   of    veal    with    stewed    nouilles   (flat 
macaronis),  mushrooms,  and  truffles. 

Longe  de  veau  a  Vltalie^me. 
Braised  loin  of  veal  garnished  with  rice  dumplings 
and  tomato  sauce. 

Longe  de  veau  rotie  a  la  Mo7itpensier. 
Roast  loin  of  veal  with  stewed  truffles. 

Noix  de  veau  piquee.        Braised  cushion  of  veal  larded. 

Noix  de  veau  a  la  chasseur. 
Roast  cushion  of  veal  stuffed  with  minced  game  and 
mushrooms. 

Noix  de  veau  piquee  d  la  chicoree. 
Roast  cushion  of  veal  larded  with  puree  of  endives. 

Noix  de  veau  a  VAllemande. 

*  Braised  cushion  of  veal  larded,  garnished  with  new 
potatoes  (baked)  and  green  peas. 

Foitrine  de  veau  farcie  d  VAnglaise. 
Roast  stuffed  breast  of  veal  (Enghsh  style). 

•  Poitrine  de  veau  a  la  Mila^iaise. 

Eoast  stuffed  breast    of    veal    with  macaroni  and 
iomato  stew. 


134  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

Selle  de  veau  aux  tomates  farcies. 
Roast  saddle  of  veal  with  stuffed  tomatoes. 
Selle  de  veau  aux  champigno7is  frais, 
Eoast  saddle  of  veal  mth  stewed  fresh  mushrooms. 
Bond  de  veau  farci.  Rolled  loin  of  veal  stuffed. 

Chapo7i  houilli  a  VAnglaise, 
Boiled  capon  and  bath  chap. 

Chapon  braise  a  la  Pirigord. 
Braised  capon  and  truffle  sauce. 

Dinde  bouillie  aux  huitres 
Boiled  turkey  with  stewed  oysters. 

Cimier  de  serf,  sauce  ])iquante. 
Pickled  saddle  of  deer  braised  with  piquante  sauce. 

Cimier  de  chevreuil  aux  toniates. 
Braised  pickled    saddle    of   venison    with    stewed 
tomatoes. 

Gigot  de  chevreuil  braise.    Braised  leg  of  venison. 

Fricandeau  de  chamois.     Braised  chamois  fillet  larded, 

Fricandeau  de  chevreuil  a  la  broche. 

Roast  fillet  of  venison  larded* 

Gigot  de  chevreuil  d  la  crevie  aigre. 

Roast  leg  of  venison  with  sour  cream  sauce. 

Cuissot  de  sanglier  a  la  Bonrgogne. 

Roast  leg  of  wild  boar  with  Burgundy  wine  sauce. 

Beins  de  sanglier  a  la  Madere. 

Roast  loin  of  wild  boar  with  Madeira  wine  sauce. 


RELEVES — REMOVES  135 

Marcassin  farci  aux  truffes. 

Roast   young  wild  boar   stuffed  with   truffles   and 
forcemeat. 

Marcassin  a  la  broche.  Roast  young  wild  boar. 

Jambon  de  renne.  Smoked  leg  of  reindeer. 

Gigot  marine  de  renne.         Pickled  leg  of  reindeer. 

Tete  de  veau  farcie  aux  truffes. 
Braised  calf's  head  stuffed  with  veal  forcemeat  and 
truffles. 


ENTREES     LEGERES     ET    HORS- 
D'CEUVRE    CHAUDS. 

LIGHT    ENTREES    AND    HOT 

SIDE    DISHES. 

Boudins,  &c. 

Andouillettes.  Forcemeat  balls. 

Bauveses  aux  truffes.  Truffled  calf's  brain  on  toast. 

Beignets  de  claines.  Clam  fritters. 

Beignets  d'liuitres.  Oyster  fritters. 

Beignets  de  cervelle  deveau.  Calf's  brain  fritters. 

Boudin  de  volaille  d  la  reine. 

Chicken  sausage,  Queen  style. 
Small  baked  sausages  filled  with  finely  cut  chicken 
stew. 


136  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

Boudin  de  gibier  a  la  Montglas. 

Game  and  truffle  sausages,  Montglas  style. 

Boudin  de  volaille  hlanc.      White  fowl  pudding. 

Boudin  de  lievre  d  la  Blchelieu. 

Hare  pudding,  Richelieu  style. 
These  consist  of  richly  prepared  and  finely  minced 
hare  meat,  baked  and  served  with  a  rich  truffle  sauce. 

Boudin  c^s  sanglier.  Wild  boar  pudding. 

Boudinade  de  veau.  Veal  sausage  pudding. 

Croustades. 

Croustades  are  shapes  of  baked  paste  crusts,  or  of 
fried  bread  crusts,  on  which  minced  meat  or  game  is 
served. 

Croustades  de  macaroni.      Macaroni  croustades. 

Prepared  with  cooked  macaroni,  cheese,  and  tomato 
sauce. 

Croustades  de  volailles  d  la  Perigueux. 

Chicken  croustades,  Perigord  style. 
Stewed   fillets  of   chicken   with   truffles   baked    in 
crusted  cases. 

Croustades  de  venaison.        Venison  croustades. 
Stewed  fillets  of  venison  baked  in  crusted  cases. 

Croustades  de  gibier  d  la  Vatel. 

Game  croustades,  Vatel  style. 
Stewed  fillets  of  game,  richly  flavoured  with  chopped 
truffles  and  mushrooms,  served  in  fried  bread  crusts. 


LIGHT    ENTREES    AND    HOT    SIDE    DISHES  137 

Croutons  au  salmis  cle  perdreaux. 

Partridge  stew  on  toast. 
Salmis    of   very  small   boned    pieces   of  partridge 
served  on  small  oval- shaped  pieces  of  fried  or  toasted 
bread. 

Bouchees. 

(See  also  Petites  bouchees.) 
Bouchees  are  small  puff  paste  patties,  filled  with 
certain  preparations  of  minced  fish,  meat,  or  game. 
Bouchees  de  volatile  a  la  reine. 

Chicken  patties,  Queen  style. 
Bouchees  d  la  Montglas. 

Chicken  and  sweetbread  patties,  Montglas  style. 

Crepinettes. 

Crepinettes  are  small  square-shaped  meat   sausages, 
wrapped  in  pig's  caul,  egged,  crumbed,  and  fried  in  clari- 
fied butter  or  dripping. 
Crepinettes  de  volaille  truffee. 

Chicken  crepinettes  truffled. 
Crepinettes  de  faisan.  Pheasant  crepinettes. 

Crepinettes  de  pluvier.         Plover  crepinettes. 
Crepinettes  de  lievre.  Hare  crepinettes. 

Crepinettes  de  levraut.         Wild  rabbit  crepinettes. 
Crepinettes  de  grives  truffees. 

Fieldfare  crepinettes  truffled. 

Coquilles. 

Coquilles  are  shells  filled  with  coarsely  minced  meats, 
&c.,  baked  in  the  oven. 
Coquilles  de  volaille  truffee.    Truffled  chicken  coquilles. 


138  PRACTICAL    GASTR0NO]MY 

Coquilles  de  champignons.    Mushroom  coquilles. 
Coquilles  de  cervelle  de  veau.     Calf's  brain  coquilles. 
Coquilles  de  fraise  de  veau  truffee. 

Coquilles  of  truffled  calf's  ruffle. 
Coquilles  de  truffes.  Truffle  coquilles. 

Coquilles  de  perdreaux.        Partridge  coquilles 
Coquilles  de  poulet  d  la  cardinal. 

Minced  chicken  and  crayfish  tails  m  shells. 


Coquilles  de  ris  de  veau.       Sweetbread  m  shells. 

Couscoussous  de  chevreuil. 

Fried  venison  meat  dumplings. 
Capisantis  d  la  Milanaise.  Milanese  capisantis. 

Richly  prepared  minced  Italian  sausage  with  rice  and 
parmesan  cheese,  baked  and  served  in  shells. 

Cannelons. 

Cannelons  are  puff-paste  rolls  filled  with  finely  minced 
meats,  &c.  They  are  either  egged  and  baked  in  the 
oven  or  egged  and  crumbed  and  fried  in  clarified  butter 
or  dripping. 

Cannelons  auSfkaucisses.      Sausage  meat  cannelons. 
Cannelons  d  la  puree  de  volaille. 

Chicken  paste  cannelons. 
Cannelons  d  la  puree  de  truffes. 

Truffle  puree  cannelons. 
Cannelons  a  la  puree  de  gibier.    Game  paste  cannelons. 

Cannelons  a  la  puree  de  champignons. 

Mushroom  puree  cannelons. 


LIGHT    ENTREES   AND    HOT    SIDE    DISHES         139 

Croquettes. 

Croquettes  are  certain  prepared  minced  meats,  &c., 

made  into  various   shapes,  egged,   crumbed,  and  fried 

in  clarified  butter  or  dripping. 

Croquettes  de  volaille.  Chicken  croquettes. 

Croquettes  de  riz  au  salpicon. 

Rice  and  chicken  meat  croquettes. 

Croquettes  de  veau.  Veal  croquettes. 

Croquettes  de  foie  gras.        Goose  liver  croquettes. 

Croquettes  de  rognons  de  veau.  Calf's  kidney  croquettes. 

Croquettes  de  gibier  aux  truffes. 

Game  croquettes  truffled. 

Croquettes  de  'perdreaux.      Partridge  croquettes. 

Cromesquis. 

Cromesquis  or  Kromeskis  are  small  rolls  of  certain 
prepared  minced  meats,  rolled  in  thin  slices  of  bacon, 
dipped  in  batter,  fried  in  hot  lard  or  fat,  and  served  with 
fried  parsley. 

Cromesquis  de  volaille.        Chicken  kromeskis. 
Cromesquis  de  gibier.  Game  kromeskis. 

Cromesquis  aux  huitres.       Oyster  kromeskis. 
Cromesquis  a  la  Busse.         Russian  kromeskis. 

These  consist  of  minced  chicken,  ham,  tongue, 
truffles,  and  mushrooms. 

Cromesquis  de  pied  de  pore.  Pig's  feet  kromeskis. 
Cromesquis  de  pluvier.         Plover  kromeskis. 
Cromesquis  de  homard.        Lobster  kromeskis. 
Cromesquis  d'ecrevisses.       Crayfish  kromeskis. 

9 


140  PRACTICAL   GASTRONOMY 

Crakovies. — Crakovies. 
A  kind  of  fritters  made  with  tongue  and  truffles. 

Darioles. 

Small  tartlets  filled  with  certain  minced  meats,  &c., 
baked  in  the  oven. 
Darioles  defoie  gras  aux  truffes. 

Truffled  goose-liver  darioles. 

Dariole  d  la  Pirigueux.       Fowl  and  truffle  darioles. 

Friandines. — Friandines. 

These  are  made  of  puff  paste.  When  the  latter  is 
rolled  out  thin  it  is  cut  with  a  2-inch  fancy  round 
cutter,  and  a  portion  of  the  prepared  mince  of 
either  meat  or  game,  &c.,  is  placed  in  the  centre  of 
each  round,  when  it  is  covered  with  another  round 
of  paste,  egged,  dipped  in  crushed  vermicelli,  and  fried 
in  clarified  butter,  lard,  or  fat. 
Friandines  de  volaille.  Chicken  friandines. 

Friandines  de  gibier.  Game  friandines. 

Friandines  de  foie  g'>^as.       Goose-Uver  friandines. 
Friandines  de  ris  de  veau.    Sweetbread  friandines. 
Friandines  de  poisson.         Fish  friandines. 
Friandines  aux  hultres.        Oyster  friandines. 
Friandines  de  homard.         Lobster  friandines. 


Friture  d'huitres.  Fried  oysters. 

Barboiled  oysters,  dried,  dipped  in  batter,  fried  in 
boiling  fat  or  lard,  and  served  with  fried  parsley. 


LIGHT   ENTREES   AND    HOT    SIDE    DISHES         141 

Petites  bouchees. — Small  Puff  Paste  Patties. 

Petites  houchees  a  la  Toulouse. 

Small  puff  paste  patties,  Toulouse  style. 

These  are  filled  with  stewed  fillets  of  fowl,  cooks' 
combs,  truffles,  mushrooms,  &c. 
Petites  houchees  a  la  princesse.  Princesse  patties. 

These  are  filled  with  coarsely  minced  ortolan  fillets 
and  truffles. 

Petites  boucMes  a  V Astrachan.  Astrachan  caviare  patties. 
Petites  bouchees  aux  homards.  Lobster  patties. 
Petites  bouchees  de  volaille.  Chicken  patties. 
Petites  boucMes  de  gibier.    Game  patties. 
Petites  boucMes  a  la  Beine.  Queen  patties. 

These  are  filled  with  coarsely  minced  white  chicken 
stew,  mushrooms,  and  truffles. 

Petites  caisses. 

These  caisses  are  small  round  or  oval-shaped  paper 
cases. 
Petites  caisses  de  ris  de  veau. 

Sweetbread  in  small  cases. 
Petites  caisses  defoie  gras  aux  truffes. 

Goose  liver  truffled  in  cases. 
Petites  caisses  de  champignons  farcis. 

Stuffed  mushrooms  in  cases. 
Petites  caisses  de  moelle.      Braised  marrow  fat  in  cases. 


Petits  pates  atix  hultres.       Small  oyster  patties. 
Petits  pdtis  aux  cailles.       Small  quail  patties. 


142  PRACTICAL   GASTRONOMY 

Petits  pdUs  aux  alouettes.    Small  lark  patties. 

Petits  pdUs  a  la  Joinville. 

Small  chicken  and  truffle  patties. 

Petits  pains. 

Pains  are  made  with  certain  kinds  of  prepared  force- 
meat ;  they  are  filled  in  small  buttered  moulds,  poached 
in  the  oven,  and  served  with  rich  white  or  brown  sauces. 

Petits  pai7is  de  cailles. 

Small  quail  force-meat  puddings. 

Petits  pains  de  foie  gras.      Small  goose  liver  puddings. 


Petits  souffles  de  poisson  en  caisses. 

Small  fish  souffles  in  paper  cases. 

Petits  souffles  de  volaille  d  la  creme. 

Chicken  souffles  with  cream  hi  paper  cases. 

Pilau  a  rindienne. — Indian  Pillaw. 

A  stew  of  boned  fowl,  cut  in  small  pieces,  minced 
onions,  shred  mangoes,  dressed  on  small  rice  shapes. 

Pilau  a  la  Turque,  Turkish  pillaw. 

Minced  chicken  and  ham  with  rice  spiced,  seasoned 
with  savoury  herbs  and  sherry  wine. 

Rissoles. — Rissoles. 

These  are  small  half -moon-shaped  puff  paste  patties, 
filled  with  certain  prepared  minced  fish,  meat,  or  game, 
egged,  crumbed,  and  fried  in  clarified  butter,  fat,  or  lard  ; 
they  are  served  with  fresh  or  fried  parsley  garnishing. 


LIGHT    ENTEEES   AND   HOT    SIDE   DISHES         143 

Bissoles  d  la  Busse.  Russian  rissoles. 

Filling  :  Salpicon  of  minced  chicken,  tongue,  ham, 
and  mushrooms. 

Bissoles  a  la  moelle  de  bosuf.  Rissoles  of  beef  marrow. 
Bissoles  de  ris  de  veau.        Sweetbread  rissoles. 
Bissoles  de  volaille  d  VIndienne.  Curried  fowl  rissoles. 
Bissoles  de  gihier.  Game  rissoles. 

Bissoles  d  la  chasseur.         Venison  rissoles. 
Bissoles  de  becasse  aux  truffes.     Snipe  rissoles  truffled. 
Bissoles  defoie  gras.  Goose  liver  rissoles. 

Bissoles  de  homard.  Lobster  rissoles. 

Bissoles  aux  huitres.  Oyster  rissoles. 

Bissoles  d  la  Hollandaise.    Oyster  and  truffle  rissoles. 

Ravioles. 

Bavioles  d  la  Napolitai^ie.     Neapolitan  ravioles. 

These  are  small  round  patties  made  of  a  certain 
paste  called  Ravioli  paste ;  they  are  filled  with  a  mix- 
ture of  grated  parmesan  cheese,  yolks  of  eggs,  and 
cayenne,  baked  in  the  oven  and  served  with  tomato 
sauce. 

Timbales. — Timbales. 

The  word  means  a  cup,  bowl,  or  beaker  in  cookery  ; 
they  are   certain   kinds   of  meat    or    game  puddings, 
cooked  in  cup-shaped  moulds,  either  baked  or  poached. 
Timbale  de  cailles.  Quail  timbale. 

Timbale  de  perdreaux.  Partridge  timbale. 

Timbale  de  gibier.  Game  timbale. 

Timbale  d  la  Talleyra^id. 

Force-meat  and  ox-tongue  timbale. 


144  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 


ENTREES     FROIDES 
COLD     ENTREES 

These  consist  of  cold  fricassees^  salmis^  cutlets ;  Jiam^ 
tongue^  fillets  of  gam*- .  poultry  and  fish,  aspics,  salads  of 
poultry,  fish  or  shell-fish,  hoar's  head,  potted  meats,  dec. 
They  are  appropriate  for  hall  suppers,  hanquets,  and  on 
occasions  where  cold  collations  are  co^iveniently  served. 

Aspic  d'aiiguilles.  Eels  dressed  in  savoury  jelly. 

Aspic  d'ecrevisses.  Crayfish  in  savoury  jelly. 

Aspic  de  saumon.  Salmon  salad  in  savoury  jelly. 

Aspic  de  homard.  Lobster  salad  in  savoury  jelly. 

Aspic  auxc&ufs  depluvier. 

Plover's  eggs  in   savoury  jelly  (with  macedoine  of 
vegetables,  green  peas,  and  truffles). 
Aspic  de  ris  de  veau.  Sweetbread  in  savoury  jelly. 

Cervelle  de  veau  en  aspic.   Calf's  brain  in  savoury  jelly. 
Filets  de  soles  en  aspic.    Fillets  of  soles  in  savoury  jelly. 
Cotelettes  de  mouton  en  belle  vue. 

Mutton  cutlets  masked  with  sauce,  dressed  cold  in 
savoury  jelly    with   macedoine   of   vegetables,  lettuce, 
endive,  and  truffles. 
Cotelettes  de  foie  gras  en  aspic. 

Goose  liver  cutlets  in  savoury  jelly. 


ENTREES    FROIDES COLD    ENTREES  145 

Cuisses  de  volaille  en  belle  vue. 
Legs  of  chicken,  masked  with  cold  sauce,  dressed 
in    savoury    jelly   with  macedoine   of  vegetables  and 
truffles. 

Salade  de  poulets.  Chicken  salad. 

Mayonnaise  de  volaille.        Chicken  mayonnaise. 
Chaud-froid  de  poulets. 

Masked  chicken  fillets  dressed  in  savoury  jelly. 
Galantine  de  poulets. 

Chicken  galantine  with  savoury  jelly. 
Cdtelettes  de  volaille  a  la  Busse. 

Cold  chicken  cutlets,  truffled  and  larded,  dressed  in 
savoury  jelly  and  mayonnaise  sauce. 

Pain  de  volaille  aux  truffes  a  Vaspic. 
Small  chicken  forcemeat  puddings,  truffled,  served 
with  savoury  jelly. 
Galantine  de  divide  aux  truffes. 

Turkey  galantine  with  truffles. 
Chaud-froid  de  perdreaux. 

Masked  partridge  fillets  dressed  in  savoury  jelly. 
Chaud-froid  de  becasses. 

Masked  woodcock  fillets  dressed  in  savoury  jelly. 
Chaud-froid  de  cailles. 

Masked  boned  quails  dressed  in  savoury  jelly. 
Chaud-froid  de  coq  de  bruyere. 

Masked  heath  cock  or  grouse  fillets  dressed  in  sa- 
voury jelly. 
Chaud-froid  de  gelinottes. 

Masked  hazel-hen  fillets  dressed  in  savoury  jelly. 


146  PEACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

Pains  de  gibier  d  la  geUe. 

Small  game  forcemeat  puddings. 
Fains  de  foie  gras  a  la  Perigord. 

Small  goose  liver  puddings  with  truffles. 
Cotelettes  de  sanglier  en  mayonnaise. 

Wild  boar  cutlets  dressed  with  mayonnaise  sauce  and 
savoury  jelly. 
Cdtelettes  de  chevreuil  en  gelee. 

Venison  cutlets  dressed  with  savoury  jelly. 
Cdtelettes  de  veau  en  belle  vue. 
Veal  cutlets  truffled,  dressed  in   savoury  jelly  with 
mac^doine  of  vegetables. 

Galantine  de  veau  en  aspic. 

Veal  galantine  in  savoury  jelly. 
Galantine  d'ortolans  en  chaud-froid. 
Stuffed  ortolan  galantine  truffled  and  masked,  gar- 
nished   with    truffles    and    macedoine    of   vegetables, 
dressed  in  savoury  jelly. 

Coq  de  bois  en  gelee. 

Cold  black  grouse  in  savoury  jelly. 
Pate  de  cailles  froid.  Cold  quail  raised  pie. 

Pate  de  pintade.  Cold  guinea  fowl  pie. 

Pdti  de  pigeons  froid.  Cold  pigeon  pie. 

Pate  froid  de  veau  a  VAnglaise. 

Cold  veal  and  ham  pie. 
Pate  froid  de  saumon.  Cold  salmon  pie. 

Mayo7inaise  de  poissons.       Fish  mayonnaise. 

Chaud-froid  de  faisan. 

Masked  pheasant  fillets  dressed  in  savoury  jelly. 


ENTREES    FROIDES — COLD    ENTREES  147 

PdU  de  bdcasses  aux  truffes.     Snipe  pie  with  truffles. 

Langue  de  bo^uf  rouUe  a  Vaspic, 

Rolled  ox- tongue  with  savoury  jelly. 

Salade  d  la  Busse.  Russian  salad. 

Coarsely  minced  ham,  tongue,  salmis,  sausage, 
truffles,  and  mushrooms  mixed  with  mayonnaise  sauce 
and  jelly,  dressed  in  a  cylinder- shaped  mould,  garnished 
with  a  border  of  macedoine  of  vegetables  and  savoury 
jelly. 

Salade  a  Vltalienne.  Italian  salad. 

Coarsely  minced  ham,  tongue,  Italian  sausage, 
truffles,  and  preserved  mushrooms ;  young  carrots, 
French  beans,  and  green  peas  mixed  with  mayonnaise 
sauce  and  savoury  meat  jelly,  filled  into  a  mould,  and 
when  served  garnished  with  savoury  jelly. 

Salade  de  cervelle  de  veau. 
Calf's  brain  salad  with  mayonnaise  sauce  and  savoury 
jelly. 

Salade  d'ecrevisses  aux  pointes  d'asperges. 

Crayfish  and  asparagus  point  salad. 
Mixed  with  mayonnaise  sauce  and  savoury  jelly. 

Tartelettes  d'ecrevisses  et  de  homard. 

Crayfish  and  lobster  tartlets. 

Tartlet  paste  crusts,  filled  with  minced  crayfish  tails 

and  lobster  meat,  mixed  with  mayonnaise  sauce  and 

savoury  jelly,  garnished  with  crayfish  tails,  truffles,  and 

sHced  gherkins. 


148  PRACTICAL   GASTRONOMY 


ENTREES 
VEAU— VEAL 


Ballotine  de  veaufarcie.     Stuffed  rolled  breast  of  veal. 

Blanquette  de  veau  a  VAllemande. 
Stewed  veal  with  preserved  mushrooms  in  white 
sauce. 

Blanquette  de  veau  a  la  poulette. 
Stewed  veal  with  sliced  mushrooms  in  white  sauce 
with  finely  chopped  parsley. 

Blanqtiette  de  veau  aux  truffes. 
Stewed  veal  in  white  sauce  with  truffles. 

Blanquette  de  veau  a  VIndienne, 
Stewed  veal  in  white  sauce  with  curry  and  rice. 

Blanquette  de  veau  aux  concombres. 
Stewed  veal  in  white  sauce  with  braised  cucumbers. 

Carre  de  veau  pique  aux  petits  pois. 
Larded  neck  of  veal  braised,  with  green  peas. 

Carre  de  veau  piqud  d  la  creme  aigre. 
Roast  larded  neck  of  veal  with  sour  cream  sauce. 

Carre  de  veau  d  la  puree  de  tomate. 
Braised  neck  of  veal  with  tomato  puree. 


ENTREES  :     VEAU — VEAL  149 

Cotelettes  de  veau  d  la  reine. 
Egged  and  crumbed  veal  cutlets  broiled  in  fresh 
butter,  served  with  demi-glace,  truffles,  and  preserved 
mushrooms. 

Gdtelettes  de  veau  au  naturel. 

Plain  broiled  veal  cutlets. 
Gdtelettes  de  veaugrillees.     Plain  grilled  veal  cutlets. 

Cotelettes  de  veau  a  la  Bordelaise. 
Broiled  veal  cutlets,   dished    up    with  fried  bread 
croiitons  and  preserved  cepes.    Sauce  :  Bordelaise. 

Cotelettes  de  veaii  d  la  Par  jar  ski. 
Cutlet  shapes  of  minced  veal,  egged,  crumbed,  and 
fried.     Sauce :  Demi-glace  and  tomate. 

Cotelettes  de  veau  d  Vecarlate. 
Plain  broiled  veal  cutlets  dressed  alternately  with 
heart-shaped  slices  of  ox-tongue.     Sauce  :  Tomate. 

Cotelettes  d  la  maitre  d' hotel. 
Plain  broiled  veal  cutlets  served  with  maitre  d'hotel 
sauce. 

Cotelettes  de  veau  d  VAllemande. 
Crumbed  veal   cutlets  fried,  dressed  round   potato 
puree.     Sauce :  Demi-glace. 

Cotelettes  de  veau  d  Vltalienne. 
Plain  broiled  veal  cutlets  with  Italian  sauce. 

Cotelettes  de  veau  d  la  chicoree. 

Broiled  veal  cutlets  with  mashed  chicory, 
Gdtelettes  de  veau  aux  epinards. 

Broiled  veal  cutlets  with  mashed  spinach. 


160  PBACTICAL    GASTEONOMY 

Cotelettes  de  veaud  la  Zingara. 
Fried  veal  cutlets  dished  up  alternately  with  cutlet- 
shaped  slices  of  broiled  ham.     Sauce  :  Madera. 

Cdtelettes  de  veau  sautees. 

Broiled  veal  cutlets  with  gravy  sauce. 

Cdtelettes  de  veau  en  crepmettes. 
Veal  cutlets  wrapped  in  pig's  net,  egged,  crumbed, 
and  fried. 

Cdtelettes  de  veau  en  papillotes. 

Stuffed  veal  cutlets  braised,  served  in  paper  cases. 

Cdtelettes  de  veau  d  la  Parma. 
Veal  cutlets  egged  and  crumbed  in  grated  parmesan 
cheese  and  fried. 

Cdtelettes  de  veau  d  la  Milanaise. 
Veal  cutlets  with  small  macaronis,  stewed  in  tomato 
sauce  and  parmesan  cheese. 

Cdtelettes  de  veau  d  la  SingaraU 
Veal  cutlets  larded  with  small  strips  of  smoked  ox- 
tongue and  braised. 

Cdtelettes  de  veau  d  la  Dauphine. 
Veal  cutlets  stuffed  with  chopped  tongue  and  truffles, 
braised,  and  served  with  sauce  Perigueux. 

Cdtelettes  de  veau  d  la  Soubise, 
Egged,  crumbed,  and  fried  veal  cutlets  with  onion 
pur^e. 

Cdtelettes  de  veau  d  la  Moreland, 

Broiled  veal  cutlets  with  mashed  fresh  mushrooms. 


ENTKEES :     VEAU — VEAL  151 

Cdtelettes  de  veau  a  la  demi-glace. 

Veal  cutlets  with  brown  sauce. 

Cdtelettes  de  veau  a  la  Saint-Cloud. 
Veal  cutlets  larded  with  strips  of  truffles,  broiled  in 
fresh  butter,  and  garnished  with  forcemeat  quenelles. 
Sauce:  AUemande. 

Cdtelettes  de  veau  a  la  Prusse. 
Veal  cutlets  stuffed  with  truffles  and  finely  chopped 
shallots. 

Cdtelettes  de  veau  a  la  marecJial. 
Egged  and  cheese-crumbed  veal  cutlets  fried,  served 
with  orange  sauce. 

Cdtelettes  de  veau  d  la  Dreicx. 
Broiled    veal   cutlets  larded  with  tongue,   streaky 
bacon,  and  pickled  gherkins,  served  with  a  garniture  of 
sliced  mushrooms  and  sweetbread.     Sauce  :  Tomate. 

Cdtelettes  de  veau  a  la  lorgnette. 
Egged,  crumbed,  and  fried  veal  cutlets  served  with 
rings  of  onions  dipped  in  milk  and  flour  and  fried  in 
clarified  butter. 

Cdtelettes  de  veau  d  la  Cracovie. 
Broiled  veal  cutlets  larded  with  strips  of  anchovy 
fillets.     Sauce :  Madere. 

Cdtelettes  de  veau  panees. 

Breaded  and  fried  veal  cutlets. 

Beignets  de  cervelle  de  veau.     Calf's  brain  fritters. 

Cervelle  de  veau  au  beurre  noir. 

Broiled  calf's  bram  with  brown  butter. 


152  PEACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

Cervelle  de  veau  a  la  ravigote. 

Fried  calf's  brain  with  savoury  herb  sauce. 

Friture  de  cervelle  de  veau.    Fried  calf's  brain. 

Cervelle  de  veau  au  gratin. 
Calf's  brain  prepared  with  white  sauce,  baked  in 
the  gratin  style. 

Cervelle  de  veau  aux  huitres. 
Broiled  calf's  brain  with  stewed  oysters  and  chopped 
parsley. 

Cervelle  de  veau  d  la  Tar  tare. 

Fried  calf's  brain  with  Tartare  sauce. 

Souffle  de  cervelle  de  veau. 

Calf's  brain  souffles  in  paper  cases  or  shells. 

Cervelle  de  veau  a  la  financiere. 
Boiled  calf's  brain  with  a  rich  financiere  sauce  and 
garniture. 

Cervelle  de  veau  a  la  demi-glace. 

Boiled  calf's  brain  with  brown  sauce. 

Cervelle  de  veau  a  la  Milanaise. 
Fried  calf's  brain  served  with  macaronis  and  tomato 
sauce,  garnished  with  ham,  tongue,  preserved   mush- 
rooms, and  truffles  finely  shred. 

Escalopes  de  veau  aux  petits  pois. 

Veal  collops  with  green  peas. 

Escalopes  de  veau  a  la  tomate. 
Veal  collops  egged,  crumbed,  and  broiled  in  butter, 
serv^ed  with  tomato  puree. 


ENTEEES  :     VEAU — VEAL  163 

Escalopes  de  veau  d  la  Viennoise. 
Veal  coUops  egged,  crumbed,  and  fried,  served  with 
brown  sauce,  garnished  with  gherkins,  olives,  capers, 
fillets  of  anchovies,  and  hard-boiled  eggs. 

Escalopes  de  veau  a  la  Holstem. 
Veal   collops,   prepared  as   above,   garnished  with 
hard-boiled  eggs,  anchovies,  gherkins,  and  capers. 

Escalopes  de  veau  aux  asperges. 
Broiled  veal  collops  with  stewed  asparagus  points. 

Escalopes  de  veau  farcies.    Broiled  stuffed  veal  collops. 

Escalopes  de  veau  d  la  Perigord. 
Broiled  veal  collops  larded  with  truffles  and  bacon, 
served  with  Madere  sauce. 

Escalopes  de  veau  aux  epinards. 

Fried  veal  collops,  with  spinach. 

Escalopes  de  veau  d  la  Savoisienne. 
Broiled  veal   collops,  dressed   in  the  centre  of  a 
border  of  small  rice  timbales.     Sauce :  Demi-glace  and 
tomate. 

Escalopes  de  veau  au  jamhon. 

Fried  veal  collops  with  broiled  ham. 

Foie  de  veau  saiite  d  VAnglaise.  Calf  s  liver  with  bacon. 

Foie  de  veau  saute  d  V Allemande. 

Sliced  calf's  Hver  with  savoury  sauce. 

Foie  de  veau  grilU.  Grilled  calf's  liver. 

Foie  de  veau  frit  d  la  tomate. 

Fried  calf's  liver  with  tomato  sauce. 


154  PRACTICAL   GASTRONOaiY 

Foie  de  veau  piqud.  Larded  calf's  liver,  broiled. 

Pains  de  foie  de  veau.  Small  calf's  liver  puddings. 

Foie  de  veau  roti.  Roast  calf's  liver. 

Quenelles  de  foie  de  veau.  Calf's  liver  dumplings. 

Foie  de  veau  saute,  sauce  piquante. 

Stewed  calf's  liver  with  piquante  sauce. 

Foie  de  veau  pane.  Breaded  calf's  liver  fried. 

Foie  de  veau  braise  d  Vltalienne. 
Braised   calf's  liver  with   Italienne   sauce  (brown 
sauce  with  tomato  puree,  chopped  shallots,  and  mush- 
rooms). 

Foie  de  veau  a  la  hourgeoise. 
Sliced   calf's   liver    fried,   garnished   with    braised 
carrots  and  button  onions.     Sauce  :  Demi-glace. 

Fricandeau  de  veau  a  la  macedoine. 
Larded  and  braised  segment  piece  of  veal,  garnished 
with  finely  cut  vegetables,  termed  jnacedoine  de  legumes. 

Fricandeau  de  veau  aux  champignons. 

Larded   and   braised   segment  piece   of   veal   with 
stewed  mushrooms. 

Fricandeau  de  veau  d  la  tomate. 
Larded   and  braised   segment  piece   of   veal   with 
stewed  tomatoes. 

Fricandeau  de  veau  au  naturel. 
Larded  and  braised  segment  piece  of  veal  served 
with  plain  gravy. 


ENTBEES  :     VEAU VEAL  155 

Fricmideau  cle  veau  a  la  Begence. 
Larded  cushion  of  veal,  braised  and    glazed   with 
its  gravy  reduced,  dished  up  with  a  garniture  of  veal 
quenelles,  slices  of  sweetbread,  mushrooms,  and  truffles. 
Sauce  :  Madere. 

Fricandelles  de  veau,  sauce  tomate. 
Veal  dumplings,  first  boiled,  then  egged,  crumbed 
and  fried,  served  with  tomato  sauce. 

Fricandelles  de  veau  au  gratin. 
Veal  dumpUngs   boiled,  placed  in  a  buttered  dish 
covered  with  bread  crumbs  and  white  sauce  and  baked 
in  the  gratm  style. 

Filets  de  veau  a  la  Bechamel. 
Stuffed  fillets  of  veal  with  Bechamel  sauce. 

Filets  de  veau  d  VAllemande. 
Boiled  fillets  of  veal  with  white  sauce  and   sliced 
preserved  mushrooms. 

Filets  de  veau  a  la  Frangaise. 
Braised  fillets  of  veal,  served  with   a  brown  sauce, 
mixed  with  a  little  tomato  puree. 

Filets  de  veau  farci  a  la  Frangaise. 
Stuffed  and  larded  fillet  of  veal,  braised,  served  with 
brown  sauce  and  marble-shaped  fried  potatoes. 

Filet  de  veau  roti  aux  joommes  pailles. 
Roast  fillet  of  veal  larded,  garnished  with  very  fine 
strips  of  fried  potatoes. 

Filets  viignons  de  veau  a  Voseille. 
Small  broiled  veal  fillets  with  sorrel  puree. 

10 


166  PKACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

Filets  mignons  de  veau  a  la  ptcrSe  de  gibier. 
Small  broiled  veal  fillets  with  game  pur6e. 

Filets  de  veau  a  la  Milanaise. 
Fried  fillets  of  veal,  garnished  with  stewed  macaroni 
mixed  with  white  sauce,  parmesan  cheese,  and  finely 
shred  ox-tongue.     Sauce  :  Tomate. 

Filets  de  veau  a  la  purde  de  concomhres. 
Broiled  fillets  of  veal  with  mashed  cucumbers. 

Filets  de  veau  aux  haricots  verts. 
Broiled  fillets  of  veal  with  French  beans. 

Fricassee  de  veau  a  VAnglaise. 
Stewed  veal  in  white  sauce  with  sliced  preserved 
mushrooms,  served  with  fine  rashers  of  bacon  round  the 
dish. 

Fricassee  de  veau  a  VAllemande. 
Stewed  pieces  of  breast  of  veal  in  white  sauce,  gar- 
nished with  crayfish  dumplings,  crayfish  tails,  asparagus, 
and  sprigs  of  cauliflower. 

Fricassee  de  /raise  de  veau. 
Stewed  calf's  ruffle  in  white  sauce. 

Gateau  de  veau  aux  truffes. 
A  kind  of  veal  pudding  baked  and  served  with  truffle 
sauce. 

Gdteau  de  veau  au  hain-marie. 

Veal  pudding  poached  and  served  with  white  sauce. 

Goulache  de  veau  d  la  Hongroise. 
Finely  cut  broiled  veal  with  pepper  sauce. 


ENTREES  :     VEAU — VEAL  167 

Grenadins  de  veaio.  Larded  veal  collops  broiled. 

Grenadins  de  veau  aux  petits  pois. 
Broiled  larded  veal  collops  with  green  peas. 

Grenadins  de  veau  a  la  fermiere. 
Larded  veal  collops,  braised,  garnished  with  groups 
of  cooked  carrots,  lettuce,  cauliflower,  and  small  round 
fried  potatoes.     Sauce  :  Demi-glace. 

Grenadins  de  veau  a  la  tomate. 
Larded  veal  collops  with  tomato  sauce. 

Grenadins  de  veau  aux  Spinards. 
Larded  veal  collops  with  spinach. 

Timbales  de  godiveau. 
A  kind  of  small  puddings  made  of  veal  force-meat, 
served  with  white  sauce. 

Haricot  de  veau  a  VAnglaise. 
Stewed  pieces  of  neck  of  veal,  with  braised  button 
onions,  green  peas,  carrots,  and  turnips. 
Hachis  de  veau.  Minced  veal  with  white  sauce. 

Hachis  de  mous  de  veau  au  riz. 
Hashed  calf's  lungs  with  rice. 

Langue  de  veau  d  Vltalienne, 
Boiled  pickled  calf's  tongue  with  Italian  sauce. 

Langue  de  veau  au  gratin. 
Calf's  tongue  baked,  gratin  style. 

Langue  de  veau  aux  petits  pois. 
Braised  calf's  tongue  with  green  peas. 

Langue  de  veau  a  la  poivrade. 
Braised  calf's  tongue  with  brown  pepper  sauce. 


158  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

Langue  de  veau  aux  pomtes  d'asperges. 
Broiled  calf's  tongue  with  asparagus  points. 

Langue  de  veau  aux  epinards. 
Braised  calf's  tongue  with  spinach. 

Langue  de  veau  en  papillotes. 
Braised  calf's  tongue  in  paper  cases. 

La7igue  de  veau,  sauce  tomate. 
Calf's  tongue  with  tomato  sauce. 

Longe  de  veau  a  VAnglaise, 
Braised  loin   of   veal   stuffed  with  force-meat  and 
savoury  herbs.     Broiled  rashers   of  bacon  are  served 
with  this  dish. 

Longe  de  veau  a  la  Frangaise. 
Braised  loin  of  veal,  served  with  stuffed  tomatoes 
and  fried  potato  croquettes. 

Longe  de  veau  farci  a  VA  llemande. 
Braised  boned  loin  of  veal  stuffed  with  veal  force- 
meat and  bacon. 

Longe  de  veau  a  la  Montglas. 
Braised  loin  of   veal   garnished    with    finely- shred 
tongue,  truffles,  cooked  chicken  meat,  and  mushrooms. 
Sauce  :  Demi-glace. 

Longe  de  veau  d  la  Provengale. 
Roast  loin  of  veal,  stuffed  with  onions  and  force- 
meat, dished  up  with  stuffed  tomatoes.     Sauce  :  Pro- 
ven9ale. 

Mous  de  veau  a  Vhidienne. 
Calf's  lungs  stewed,  served  with  Indian  pickle  sauce 
and  curried  rice. 


ENTREES  :     VEAU VEAL  159 

Noix  de  veau  piquee  a  la  Montpensier. 
Braised  cushion  of  veal  larded  with  truffles  and  bacon. 

Noix  de  veau  a  la  bourgeoise. 
Stewed  cushion  of  veal  with  braised  button  onions. 

Noix  de  veau  a  la  Napolitaine. 
Stewed  cushion  of  veal  with  macaroni. 
Noix  de  veau  a  la  Westphalie. 
Braised  cushion   of  veal,  served  with  Westphalian 
ham. 

Noix  de  veau  a  la  financier e. 
Stewed  cushion  of  veal  with   cocks'  combs,  cocks' 
kernels,     sliced    mushrooms,    and     truffles.      Sauce : 

Demi-glace. 

Noix  de  veau  a  la  jardiniere. 
Braised    cushion    of   veal    larded,  garnished  with 
stewed  spring  vegetables  cut  small. 

Noix  de  veau  d  la  Bechamel. 
Larded  cushion  of  veal  braised,  served  with  Becha- 
mel sauce. 

Noix  de  veau  a  la  gendarme. 
Larded    cushion    of   veal    roasted,    served   with  a 
highly  spiced  brown  sauce  reduced   with  chilly  vine- 
gar and  tomato  puree. 

Noix  de  veau  d  la  Nivernaise. 
Braised    cushion    of  veal,   garnished  with   glazed 
turnips.     Sauce  :  Espagnole,  reduced  with  white  wine. 
Noix  de  veau  a  la  Lyonnaise. 
Braised   cushion  of   veal,    garnished  with   stuffed 
braised  onions,   glazed  chestnuts,  and  small  pieces  of 
fried  sausages. 


160  PEACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

Noix  de  veau  d  la  Trianon. 
Larded  cushion  of  veal  braised,  served  with  a  puree 
of  chestnuts  and  demi-glace  sauce. 

Noix  de  veau  a  la  Sarde. 
Larded    cushion   of  veal   braised,   garnished  with 
baked   ravioli    paste  quenelles,  which   are    previously 
boiled   and    are    filled    with    spinach    and    parmesan 

cheese. 

Paupiettes  de  veau  aux  champignons. 
Rolled  fillets   of   veal,  larded  and   braised,  served 
with  sliced  mushrooms  and  brown  sauce. 

Paupiettes  de  veau  aux  tomates  farcies. 
Rolled  fillets  of  veal  larded,  served  with  braised 
stuffed  tomatoes. 

Paupiettes  de  veau,  sauce  Maddre, 
Rolled  braised  fillets   of  veal   larded,  served  with 
Madeira  wine  sauce. 

Pieds  de  veau  frits  a  la  Tyrolienne. 
Fried  calf's  feet  with  tomato  sauce. 

Pieds  de  veau  d  la  poulette. 
Boiled  calf's   feet  with  white  sauce,  sUced  mush- 
rooms, and  chopped  parsley. 

Pieds  de  veau  en  fricassee. 
Stewed  calf's  feet  in  white  sauce,  with  sliced  mush- 
rooms. 

Oreilles  de  veau,  sauce  tomate. 
Calf's  ears  fried  with  tomato  sauce. 

Oreilles  de  vea^i  farcies,  sauce  tomate. 
Stuffed  calf's  ears,  baked,  with  tomato  sauce. 


ENTREES  :     VEAU VEAL  161 

Oreilles  de  veau  d  la  Lyonnaise. 
Boiled  calf's  ears,  cut  into  fine  shreds,  stewed  in 
brown  sauce,  and  served  with  toasted  bread  croutons. 

Queues  de  veau  saute  d  la  Lyonnaise. 
Stewed  calf's  tails  with  fried  onions. 

Queues  de  veau  d  I'AUemande. 
Calf's  tails,  stewed  in  white  sauce. 

Queues  de  veau  d  Vlndienne. 
Curried  calf's  tails,  with  rice. 

Ragout  de  veau. 
Stewed  veal  with  sliced  mushrooms,  carrots,  turnips 
and  button  onions. 

BagoM  de  fressure  de  veati.    Veal  pluck  stew. 

(Calf's  heart,  liver,  and  lights  is  called  veal  pluck.) 

Ris  de  veau  d  la  Saint-Cloud. 
Braised  sweetbread  larded,  served  with  tomato  sauce 
and  trufSes. 

Bis  de  veau  d  la  jardiniere. 
Braised  larded  sweetbread,  with  finely  cut   spring 
vegetables,  served  with  demi-glace  sauce. 

Escalopes  de  ris  de  veau  aux  huitres. 
Fried  sweetbread  collops  with  stewed  oysters. 

Hdtelettes  de  ris  de  veau. 
Larded  sweetbread  roasted  on  silver  skewers. 

Bis  de  veau  aux  epinards. 
Braised  sweetbread  with  spinach. 

Bis  de  veau  aux  petits  pois. 
Braised  sweetbread  with  green  peas. 


162  PRACTICAL   GASTRONOMY 

Bis  de  veau  a  la  toviate. 
Braised  sweetbread  with  tomatoes. 

Bis  de  veau  aux  pointes  d'asperges. 
Braised  sweetbread  with  asparagus  points. 
Bis  de  veau  d  Voseille.    Braised  sweetbread  with  sorrel. 
Bis  de  veau  a  la  chicoree. 
Braised  sweetbread  with  mashed  chicory  or  endives. 

Bis  de  veau  a  VEspagnole. 
Braised  sweetbread,  dressed  on  a  fried  bread  crous- 
tade.     Served  with  Espagnole  sauce. 

Bis  de  veau  a  Vltalienne. 
Braised  sweetbread  (masked  with  white  sauce  and 
breaded),  served  with  Itahenne  sauce. 

Bis  de  veau  frit,  sauce  tomate. 
Fried  sweetbread  with  tomato  sauce. 

Bis  de  veau  a  la  Toulouse. 
Braised   larded   sweetbread,   served  with   sHces   of 
sweetbread,  truffles,  chicken  quenelles,  cocks'   combs, 
prepared  in  Allemande   sauce,  garnished    with    fancy 
shapes  of  fried  bread  croutons. 

Bis  de  veau  a  la  financier e. 
Braised  larded  sweetbread,  served  with  a  garnishing 
of  sliced  truffles,  cocks'  combs,  chicken  quenelles,  and 
mushrooms,  prepared  in  Madeira  wine  sauce. 

Bis  de  veau  a  la  Montpensier. 
Larded  sweetbreads,  braised,  sers'ed  in  a  border  of 
rice  with  truffles. 


ENTBEES  :     VEAU — VEAL  163 

Bis  de  veau  d  la  Bothschild. 
Braised  sweetbread,  larded  with  truffles  and  bacon. 

Bis  de  veau  a  la  Turque. 
Boiled  sweetbreads,  cut  into  pieces,  egged,  crumbed, 
and  fried. 

Bis  de  veau  a  la  demi-deuil. 
Braised  sweetbreads,  larded  with  black  truffles  only. 

Bis  de  veau  a  la  Dauphine. 
Larded  braised  sweetbread  with  mashed  sorrel. 

Bis  de  veau  a  la  chasseur. 
Stewed  sweetbread  served  m  a  border  of  puree  of 
game. 

Beignets  de  ris  de  veau.  Sweetbread  fritters. 

Bis  de  veau  en  jpapillotes. 
Sweetbread  served  in  paper  cases. 

Bis  de  veau  a  la  creme  sur  bordure  de  ris. 
White  sweetbread  stew,  served  in  a  border  of  rice. 

Coquilles  de  ris  de  veau. 
Sweetbread  stew  baked  in  shells. 

Bis  de  veau  au  vol-au-vent. 
White  sweetbread  stew  in  a  light  puff  paste  crust. 

Bis  de  veau  a  la  Villeroi. 
Braised  sweetbread,   egged,  crumbed,   and  fried  in 
clarified    butter,    garnished    with    fried   parsley,    and 
served  with  tomato  sauce. 

Bis  de  veau  a  la  Colbert. 
Slices  of  cooked   sweetbread,   immersed   in  melted 
butter,  sprinkled  with  fresh  bread  crumbs,  and  broiled. 
Served  with  Colbert  sauce. 


164  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

Bis  de  veau  a  la  Matignon, 
Parboiled  sweetbreads,   slightly  marinated  in  white 
wine  and  savoury  herbs  seasoning,  braised,  and  served 
with  demi-glace  sauce. 

Bis  de  veau  a  la  Milanaise. 

Larded  sweetbreads,  braised  and  glazed,  served 
with  stewed  macaroni,  flavoured  with  parmesan 
cheese,  and  mingled  with  finely  shred  ox-tongue, 
mushrooms,  and  truffles,  served  with  demi-glace 
sauce. 

Bis  de  veau  a  la  Duxelles. 

Fried  sweetbreads  breaded,  served  with  velout6 
sauce,  mixed  with  chopped  parsley,  cooked  ox-tongue, 
and  mushrooms,  reduced  with  white  wine. 

Bis  de  veaii  piqud  aux  champignons. 
Larded   sweetbreads,   braised,   served  with    mush- 
room heads  or  slices  and  demi-glace  sauce. 

Papillotes  de  veau  a  la  Maintenon. 
Boned  veal  cutlets,  fried  in  butter,  stuffed  with  force- 
meat and  savoury  herbs,  placed  in  paper  cases,  baked, 
and  served  with  fried  parsley. 

Kognons  de  veau  sautes. 
Stewed  veal  kidneys,  thinly  sliced. 

Bognons  a  la  maitre  d'hotel. 
Stewed  veal  kidneys    with   sliced  mushrooms  and 
chopped  parsley. 

Bognons  de  veau  en  demi-glace. 
Veal  kidneys,  barded,  braised,  and  served  with  demi- 
glace  sauce. 


ENTREES  :     VEAU VEAL  165 

Bognons  de  veau  grilles. 
Grilled  veal  kidneys,  cut  in  halves. 

Bognons  de  vemi  sautes  au  vin  blanc. 
Sliced  veal  kidneys  stewed  with  white  wine  sauce. 

Bognons  de  veau  sautes  au  vm  rouge. 
Sliced  veal  kidneys  stewed  in  red  wine  sauce. 

Bogno7is  de  veau  a  la  Demidoff. 
Sliced  veal  kidneys,  fried,  mixed  with  sliced  mush- 
rooms, chopped    parsley,  and  sauce  Madere,  dressed 
in  a  border  of  stewed  rice. 

Roulade  de  veau  au  Madere. 
Rolled  fillet  of  veal  stuffed  and  braised,  served  with 
Madeira  wine  sauce. 

Olives  de  veau  a  VAnglaise. 
Small  olive -shaped  rolls   of  thin  slices  of   fillet  of 
veal  stuffed   with    veal   forcemeat  and  bacon,  egged, 
crumbed   and   fried,    served    with   brown    sauce    and 
fried  rashers  of  bacon. 

Saute  de  veau  a  la  Marengo. 
Slices  of  cushion  of  veal,  fried,  and  stewed  with 
sliced  mushrooms,  chopped  shallots,  tomato  and 
Espagnol  sauce,  flavoured  with  sherry  wine,  dished 
up  in  pyramid  form,  garnished  with  eggs  fried  whole 
in  very  hot  sweet  oil. 

Tendrons  de  veau. 
Veal  gristles,  or  veal  tendrons,  cut  off  the  thick  end 
of  the  breast  of  veal. 

Tendrons  de  veau  aux  concomhres. 
Braised  veal  gristles  with  stewed  cucumbers. 


166  PRACTICAL   GASTRONOMY 

Tendrons  de  veau  a  la  Provengale. 
Veal  gristles  about  two  inches  square  fried  in  salad 
oil,    with   finely   chopped    onions    and    herbs,    served 
with  a  brown  onion  sauce. 

Tendrons  de  veau  a  la  Toulouse. 
Veal  gristles   stewed  in  white  sauce  with    sliced 
mushrooms. 

Tendrons  de  veau  aux  petits  pois. 
Braised  gristles  of  veal  with  green  peas. 

Tendrons  de  veau  a  VIndienne. 
Curried  veal  gristles,  with  fried  rashers   of   bacon 
and  boiled  rice. 

Tendrons  de  veau  frits  a  la  Suisse. 
Braised   gristles   of  veal,  when  cold  cut  into  one- 
inch  thick  shces,  egged,  crumbed,  and  fried.     Served 
with  a  brown  sauce. 

Tendrons  de  veau  a  la  Villeroi. 
Braised  gristles  of  veal,  when  cold  cut  into  slices, 
soaked  in  oil,  vinegar,  and  herb  brine,  drained,  dipped 
in  frying  batter,  fried  brown,  and  served  with  tomato 
sauce. 

Tendrons  de  veau,  sauce  piquante. 
Broiled  gristles  of  veal,  with  piquante  sauce. 

Tendrons  de  veau  aux  chamioignons. 
Broiled  gristles  of  veal  with  sHced  mushrooms. 

Tendrons  de  veau  au  velouU, 
Braised  gristles  of  veal  done  in  veloute  sauce. 


ENTREES  :     VEAU VEAL  167 

Tete  de  veau  d  la  poulette. 
Stewed  calf's  head  in  white  sauce,  with  sliced  mush- 
rooms and  chopped  parsley. 

Tete  de  veau  en  fricassde. 
Stewed  calf  s  head  in  white  sauce  with  sliced  mush- 
rooms. 

Tete  de  veau  d  la  maitre  d'hotel. 
Stewed   calf's   head  in  white   sauce  with  chopped 
parsley  (maitre  d'hotel  sauce). 

Tete  de  veau  au  gratin. 
Stewed  calf's  head,  baked  in  the  gratin  style. 

Tete  de  veau,  sauce  poivrade. 
Stewed  calf's  head,  with  pepper  sauce. 

Tete  de  veau  d  la  Sainte-Menehould. 
Stewed  calf's  head  dished  in  a  well-buttered  dish, 
covered  with  a  mixture  of  veloute  sauce,  yolks  of  eggs, 
and  bread  crumbs,  baked  in  the  oven. 

Tete  de  veau  d  la  tortue. 
Stewed  calf's    head   (en    tortue),   with    forcemeat 
dumplings    (quenelles    de    veau),    fried    whole     eggs, 
button    mushrooms,  yolks  of    hard-boiled  eggs,  sliced 
truffles,  cocks'    combs,    cocks'    kernels,    crayfish    tails, 
and  pickled   gherkins,  garnished   with  fleurons    (little 
half-moon  shapes  of  puff  paste  baked  or  fried). 
Tete  de  veau  d  la  Bobert. 
Stewed  calf's  head  with  brown  onion  sauce. 

Tete  de  veau  d  la  vinaigrette. 
Calf's  head,  cold,  with  vinaigrette  sauce  (oil,  vinegar, 
chopped  gherkins,  capers,  and  parsley).    Garnished  with 
hard-boiled  eggs,  anchovy  fillets,  and  olives. 


168  PKACTICAL   GASTRONOMY 

Escalopes  de  tete  de  veau.        Calf  s  head  collops. 

Square-cut  pieces  of  boiled  calf's  head  steeped 
in  oil  and  vinegar,  sprinkled  with  chopped  parsley, 
dipped  in  batter,  and  fried. 

Tete  de  veau  a  la  Destilliere. 
Stewed  calf's  head  in  brown  sauce  with  sliced  ox- 
tongue,   gherkins,  and    mushrooms,    garnished    with 
pieces   of  calf's   brain   and   fancy    shapes   of   pickled 
beetroot. 

Tete  de  veau  a  Vltalienne, 
Stewed  calf's  head  in  brown  sauce,  chopped  mush- 
rooms, shallots,  white  wine,  and  tomato  puree. 

Tete  de  veau  a  VIndienne. 
Curried  calf's  head  dressed  in  a  border   of   boiled 
rice. 

Tete  de  veau  en  fricassee. 
White  calf  s  head  stew  or  fricasseed  calf  s  head. 

Tete  de  veau  frite  a  la  Tar  tare. 
Boiled  calf's  head  pieces,  pickled,  egged,  crumbed, 
and  fried,  served  with  Tartare  sauce. 

Hachis  de  tete  de  veau.        Hashed  calf  s  head. 

Tete  de  veau  aux  huitres. 
White  calf  s  head  stew  with  oysters. 

Tete  de  veau  aux  champignons. 
White  calf  s  head  stew  with  button  mushrooms. 

BagoiU  de  tete  de  veau  a  VAnglaise. 
Stewed  calf's  head  in  brown  sauce,  garnished  with 
calf  s  brain  fritters  and  toasted  sippets  of  bread. 


169 


BCEUF— BEEF 

Beefsteaks  d  VAnglaise. 
Small  steaks  cut  off  the  sirloin  or  tenderloin  of  beef 
pared,  seasoned,  dipped  in   oiled  butter,   and   broiled 
dished  up  with  parsley  butter  on  each,  garnished  with 
small  round  chipped  potatoes. 

Beefsteaks,  sauce  piquante. 
Grilled  steaks  with  piquante  sauce. 
Beefsteaks,  sauce  tomate. 
Grilled  steaks  with  tomato  sauce. 

Beefsteaks,  sauce  Madere, 
Grilled  steaks  with  Madeira  sauce. 

Beefsteaks  aux  champignons. 
Grilled  steaks  with  sliced  mushrooms  and   brown 
sauce. 

Beefsteaks  aux  nouilles. 
Grilled   steaks   with    stewed  nouilles    and    brown 
sauce. 

Beefsteaks  aux  olives. 
Grilled  steaks  with  stoned  olives  and  brown  sauce. 

Beefsteaks  a  la  Colbert. 
Broiled  steaks,   with   Colbert   sauce,   composed  of 
Espagnole  sauce,  meat  glaze,  chopped  parsley,  lemon 
juice,  Cayenne  pepper,  and  fresh  butter. 


170  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

Beefsteaks  a  la  Brisse. 
Small  round  steaks,  slightly  marinated,  and  broiled, 
served  with   well-reduced   and    highly  spiced    tomato 
sauce,  surrounded  with  small  heaps  of  mashed  turnips. 
Beefsteaks  d  la  Godard. 
Small   round   steaks,  grilled,  served  with   a  well- 
buttered  demi-glace  sauce,  garnished  with  shced  sweet- 
breads, mushroom  heads,  quartered  artichoke  bottoms, 
and  truffles. 

Beefsteaks  mignons  a  la  Mirabeau. 
Small  round  steaks,  basted  with  sweet  oil  and  fried, 
served  with    Mirabeau    sauce ;    composed   of   veloute 
sauce,   meat    glaze    dissolved,    fresh    butter,   chopped 
parsley,  and  lemon  juice. 

Beefsteaks  a  la  Bardoux. 
Thinly  cut  round   steaks,  dipped   in   oiled   butter, 
rolled  in   a   mixture   of    fresh    bread    crumbs,   finely 
chopped  beef-marrow   and  parsley,   salt   and  pepper, 
fried  briskly,  and  served  with  maitre  d'hotel  sauce. 
Beefsteaks  a  la  Soyer. 
Small  thickly  cut   steaks,    dipped    in  oiled  butter, 
sprinkled  with  bread  crumbs,  finely  chopped  chieves 
parsley  and  seasoning,  fried,  and  served  with  a  well- 
buttered  savoury  herb  sauce. 

Beefsteaks  a  la  Parisienne. 
Broiled   steaks  surrounded   with  new    round    fried 
potatoes,  served  with  maitre  d'hotel  butter  or  sauce. 
Beefsteaks  a  la  Turinoise. 
Grilled  steaks,  served  with  small  nouilles-timbales 
and  tomato  sauce. 


ENTBEES  :     B(EUF — BEEF  171 

Beefsteaks  a  la  Nivemaise. 
Braised  steaks,   served  with   small  glazed   carrots 
and  gravy  sauce. 

Chateaubriand  d  V Hotelier e. 
Double  fillet- steak  fried  in  butter,  sauced  over  with 
a  slightly  buttered  Bechamel  sauce  and  a  few  drops  of 
dissolved  meat-extract. 

Chateaubriand  a  la  Grecque. 
Double   fillet- steak  grilled,  served  with   fried   egg- 
plants  garnished  round   the  dish,  and   Madere  sauce 
with  chopped  parsley. 

Chateauhriand  a  la  Bosny. 
Double  fillet-steak  broiled   in  butter,  served  with 
fried  slices  of  cucumber  and  poivrade  sauce. 

Chateaubriand  a  la  Bearnaise. 
Double  fillet- steak,  basted  with  sweet  oil  and  broiled, 
served  with  Bearnaise  sauce. 

Chateaubriand  a  la  Veron. 
Double  fillet-steak  stuffed  from  the  side  with  finely 
sliced  blanched  beef-marrow  and  savoury  herbs,  basted 
with  sweet  oil  and  grilled,  served  with  echalote  sauce. 

Chateaubriand  a  la  Bruxelloise. 
Broiled  double  fillet-steak,  surrounded  with  prepared 
Brussels  sprouts,  served  with  demi-glace  sauce. 

Chateaubriand  a  la  Lombarde. 
Broiled  double  fillet- steak,  surrounded  with  stuffed 
baked  tomatoes,  served  with  Madere  sauce. 

11 


172  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

Chateaubriand  d  la  Marseillaise, 
Broiled  double  fillet-steak,  surrounded  \\ith  groups 
of  glazed  carrots,  button  onions,  and  small  pieces  of 
fried  calf's  feet,  served  with  Bordelaise  sauce. 

Chateaubriand  a  la  Cordoii  rouge. 
Double  fillet-steak  basted  with  oiled  butter,  seasoned, 
sprinkled  with  finely  chopped  ham  and  fresh  bread 
crumbs,  broiled  gently,  garnished  with  groups  of  sliced 
truffles,  prepared  Brussels  sprouts,  and  small  stuffed 
tomatoes,  served  with  demi-glace  sauce. 

Chateaubriand  a  la  chipolata. 
Broiled  double  fillet-steak,  surrounded  with  glazed 
chestnuts,  fried  pieces  of  sausage,  and  mushroom  heads, 
served  vnth  tomato  sauce. 

Cervelle  de  boeuf  en  matelote. 
Ox  brains  stewed  in  red  wine  sauce,  with  braised 
button  onions. 

Cervelle  de  boeuf  frite.         Fried  ox  brains. 

Ox  brains  blanched,  cut  mto  pieces,  egged,  crumbed, 
and  fried,  or  dipped  into  frying  batter  and  fried. 

Cervelle  de  boeuf  au  gratin. 
Ox  brains  blanched,  placed  in  a  buttered  dish,  pre- 
pared and  baked  in  the  gratin  style. 

Entrecotes  a  la  Bearnaise. 
Entrecotes  of  beef  broiled,  with  Bearnaise  sauce. 

Entrecotes  au  beurre  d'anchois. 
Broiled  entrecotes  of  beef  mth  anchovy  butter. 


ENTREES  :     BCEUF — BEEF  17B 

Entrecotes  a  la  Bockaivay. 
Thick  entrecotes  of  beef  grilled,  served  with  crisply 
fried  onions  (cut  crosswise)  and  scraped  horse  radish. 

Entrecotes  d  la  maitre  dliotel. 
Broiled   entrecotes    of   beef    with    maitre    d'hotel 
sauce. 

Entrecotes  d  la  Bordelaise. 
Broiled  entrecotes  of  beef  with  Bordelaise  sauce. 

Entrecotes  d  la  moelle. 
Broiled  entrecotes  of  beef  with  blanched  and  grilled 
slices  of  marrow. 

Entrecotes  d  la  Parisienne. 
Broiled  entrecotes  of  beef,  spread  over  with  shallot 
and  parsley  (chopped),  lemon  juice,  and  meat  glaze,  and 
garnished  with  small  round  fried  potatoes. 

Entrecotes  aux  loommes  soufflees. 
Broiled  entrecotes  of  beef  with  parsley  butter  gar- 
nished with  puff  potatoes. 

Filets  de  hoeuf  au  heurre  d'anchois. 
Broiled  fillets  of  beef  with  anchovy  butter. 

Filets  de  bceuf  d  la  maitre  dliotel. 
Broiled  fillets  of  beef  with  parsley  butter. 

Filets  de  hoBuf  aux  fines  herbes. 
Broiled  fillets  of  beef  with  savoury  herb  sauce. 

Filets  de  bceuf  aux  champignons. 
Broiled  fillets  of  beef  with  sliced  mushrooms  and 
brown  sauce. 


174  PKACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

Filets  de  ho&uf  aux  truffes. 
Broiled  fillets  of  beef  with  sliced  truffles  and  brown 
sauce. 

Filets  de  hxuf  a  la  Beamaise. 
Broiled  fillets  of  beef  with  Bearnaise  sauce  and  sa- 
voury herb  butter. 

Filets  de  hceuf  a  la  Parisienne. 
Broiled  fillets  of  beef  with  fried  potatoes. 

Filets  de  hoeuf  a  la  Palmer itaine. 
Broiled  fillets  of  beef  larded,  garnished  with  stuffed 
aubergines  and  mashed  potatoes. 

Filets  de  hceuf  a  la  jardiniere. 
Broiled  fillets  of  beef  with  stewed  spring  vegetables. 

Filets  de  hceuf  a  la  Bordelaise. 
Broiled  fillets  of  beef  with  beef  marrow  and  Borde- 
laise sauce. 

Filets  de  hoRiif  a  VAndalouse. 
Braised  fillet  of  beef,  larded,  garnished  with  glazed 
chestnuts,  braised  cabbage  lettuces,  and  tomatoes. 

Filets  de  hoeuf  a  a  Henri  IV, 
Grilled  fillets  of  beef,  glazed  and  served  with  Henry 
IV.  sauce. 

Filets  de  hceuf  aux  olives  farcies. 
Grilled  fillets  of  beef  with  stuffed  olives. 

Filets  de  hceuf  cl  la  Garfield. 
Small  round  fillet  steaks  larded,  grilled,  and  served 
with  finely  cut  julienne  shapes  of  ham,  tongue,  truffles, 
and  mushrooms,  served  with  poivrade  sauce. 


ENTREES  :     BCEUF BEEF  175 

Filets  de  bcBuf  a  la  Brillat-Savarin. 
Braised  fillets  of  beef,  larded,  surrounded  with  groups 
of  sliced  sweetbreads,  fried  pieces  of  calf's  brain,  and 
glazed  button  onions,  served  with  demi-glace  sauce. 
Filets  de  bcetif  a  la  financiere. 
Roast  fillets  of  beef,  larded  and  glazed,  garnished 
with  slices  of  sweetbread,  mushrooms,  truffles,  forcemeat 
quenelles,  and  turned  olives,  served  with  Madere  sauce. 
Filets  de  hceuf  a  VAnglaise. 
Grilled  fillet  steaks,  garnished  with  small  scooped 
round  potatoes,  fried  in  butter,  and  served  with  a  well- 
reduced  Madere  sauce. 

Filets  de  ho&uf  a  la  Moscovienne. 
Braised  fillets  of  beef,  larded,  garnished  with  alter- 
nate groups  of  sliced  mushrooms,  small  stuffed  braised 
onions.     Sauce  :  Demi-glace. 

Filets  de  hceuf  a  la  Conflans. 
Braised  fillets   of  beef,   done  in   white   wine   and 
savoury  herbs.     Served  with  a  garniture  of  finely  shred 
ox-tongue,  mushrooms,  and  truffles,  and  a  well-reduced 
demi-glace  sauce. 

Filets  mignons  a  la  Duxelles. 
Small  thin  slices  of  fillet  of  beef,  well  seasoned, 
masked  in  Duxelles  sauce,  egged,  crumbed,  and  fried  in 
butter,  served  with  echalote  sauce. 

Filets  de  hceuf  a  la  Boy  ale. 
Braised  fillets  of    beef,  larded,  surrounded  with  a 
garniture  of  forcemeat  quenelles,  stoned  olives,  sliced 
truffles,  and  small  glazed    lamb    breads,   served  with 
tomato  sauce. 


176  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

Filets  de  boeicf  d  la  Claremont. 
Braised  fillets   of    beef  larded  and    glazed,  served 
with  a  garniture  of  braised  cucumbers  and  tomatoes, 
and  small  stufTed    onions  glazed.      Sauce  :    Bearnaise 
with  demi-glace. 

Filets  de  boeiif  a  la  Sicilienne. 
Grilled  fillets  of  beef,  served  with  Sicilian  sauce, 
which  is    composed    of  a  well-reduced  Madeira   wine 
sauce  with  rings  of  fried  onion  in  clarified  butter. 

Filets  de  b(xiif  d  la  Polonaise. 
Small  round  fillets  made  from  finely  chopped  lean 
tenderloin  of  beef  and  chopped  suet,  seasoned,  egged, 
crumbed,  and  fried  in  clarified  fat,  garnished  with 
small  round  fried  potatoes  and  served  with  demi-glace 
sauce. 

Filets  de  hceiif  d  VAthenienne. 
Larded  fillets  of  beef  braised  and  glazed,  served  with 
fried  egg-plants  sliced  and  Madere  sauce. 

Filets  de  bceiif  d  la  Goiiffe. 
Boast  fillets  of  beef  larded,  served  with  small  beef 
marrow  toasts  and  brown  gravy  sauce. 

Filets  de  boeuf  d  la  Dauj)liine. 
Grilled  fillet  steaks,  larded,  garnished  with  egged, 
crumbed,  and    fried  cocks'  combs,  sliced  truffles,  and 
served  with  Periguenx  sauce. 

Filets  de  boeuf  d  la  marinade. 
Boast  fillets  of  beef  (larded  and  pickled  in  vinegar 
and  savoury  herbs)  served  with  poivrade  sauce. 


ENTREES  :     BCEUF — BEEF  177 

Filets  de  bceuf  d  la  Provengale. 
Broiled  fillets  of  beef    surrounded    with    medium - 
sized   stuffed   mushrooms   and    tomatoes,  served  with 
Madere  sauce. 

Filets  de  boeuf  a  la  Vernon. 
Roast  fillets  of  beef  (pickled),  served  with  a  poivrade 
sauce,  which  is  incorporated  with  a  small  quantity  of 
prepared  cocoa,   red  currant   jelly,   and    mixed  with 
blanched  sultana  raisins. 

Filets  de  bceuf  d  la  Chateaubriand, 
Double  fillet   steaks,    seasoned,  basted  with  sweet 
oil,  and  broiled,  served  with  small  round  fried  potatoes 
and  Chateaubriand  sauce. 

Goulache  de  boeuf  a  la  Poloriaise. 
Sliced  beef  stew,  with  broiled  bacon,  and  potatoes 
cut    into    diamond    shapes,    seasoned   with    Cayenne 
pepper. 

Fricandeau  de  boeuf  a  Voseille. 
Braised  piece  of  rump  or  sirloin  of  beef,  with  mashed 
sorrel  dressed  round  the  dish. 

Croquettes  de  boeuf  d  VAnglaise.     Beef  croquets. 

Finely  minced  cooked  beef  made  into  square  shapes, 
or  balls,  egged,  crumbed,  and  fried. 

N.B. — Rump  steaks,  Porterhouse  steaks,  Tenderloin 
steaks,  Sirloin  steaks,  Entrecotes,  Fillet  steaks,  Beef 
olives,  and  Toiirnedos  may  also  be  finished  and  served 
in  a  greater  variety  by  substituting  any  appropriate 
garnish  or  sauce  with  their  respective  names  as  herein 
indicated. 


178  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY     . 

Croquettes  de  hceuf  a  Vltalienne. 
Fried  beef  croquets  with  Italian  sauce. 

Ragout  de  hceuf  a  VIndienne. 
Curried  beef  stew  with  boiled  rice. 

Boeuf  saute  a  la  Flamande. 
Braised  pieces  of  rump  of  beef  (rubbed  with  moist 
sugar  when  seasoned)  garnished  with    stuffed   spring- 
cabbages. 

Boeuf  saute  d  la  hourgeoise. 
Coarsely  minced  broiled  beef  with  braised  button 
onions  and  brown  sauce. 

Fricot  de  boeuf  d  la  Charles  X. 
Braised  rump   steak,   when   cold   cut    into    strips,, 
egged,  bread  crumbed,  and  fried,  served  with  a  brown 
shallot  sauce. 

Beignets  de  hceuf  a  la  minute. 
Cold  pieces  of  roast  beef,  well  seasoned,  dipped  in 
frying  batter  and  fried  in  clarified  butter. 

Hachis  de  hceuf  d  la  Francaise. 
Sliced  cold  beef  braised  in  butter  and  finely  chopped 
onions,  served  with  red  wine  sauce  and  chopped  parsley. 
Hachis  de  hceuf  d  VAnglaise. 
Minced  or  hashed  beef  with  poached  eggs  and  fried 
bread  croritons. 

Langue  de  hceuf  d  la  Flamande. 
Braised  ox-tongue,  garnished  with  alternate  groups 
of  carrots,   turnips,   green   peas,   French    beans,    and 
braised  spring  cabbage,  sauced  over  ^xiih.  a  thick  brown 
sauce. 


ENTEEES  :     BCEUF BEEF  179 

Langue  de  bceiif  d  la  Bomaine. 
Braised  pickled  ox-tongue,  served  with  sauce  romaine, 
composed  of  Espagnole  sauce,  white  wine,  blanched  cur- 
rants, sultanas,  Italian  pine-seeds  (pignolis),  chilli  vine- 
gar, and  a  little  powdered  sugar. 
Langiie  de  bceuf  au  gratin.  Baked  ox-tongue. 

Sliced  boiled  ox-tongue  dressed  on  a  buttered  baking 
dish,  spread  over  with  a  mixture  of  brown  sauce,  fresh 
bread  crumbs,    chopped  shallots,    parsley   and  mush- 
rooms, yolks  of  eggs,  and  fresh  butter,  baked  in  a  quick 
oven,  and  served  on  the  dish  it  is  baked  on. 
Langue  de  ho^uf  au  Parmesan. 
Boiled  ox-tongue  sliced,  arranged  on  a  gratin  dish, 
spread  over  with   a  mixture   of  white   sauce,   grated 
parmesan  cheese,  bread  crumbs,  chopped  shallots,  and 
fresh  butter,  baked  and  served  in  a  gratin  or  baking  dish. 
Langue  de  bceuf  a  Vhidienne. 
Curried  ox-tongue  with  boiled  rice. 

Langue  de  bceuf  d  la  Bobert. 
Stewed  ox-tongue  with  brown  onion  sauce. 

Langue  de  bceuf  a  la  Napolitaine. 
Braised  ox-tongue,  with  stewed  macaroni,  tomato 
puree,  and  parmesan  cheese. 

Langue  de  bceuf  fumee  aux  petits  pois. 
Smoked,  braised  ox-tongue  with  green  peas. 
Noix  de  bceuf  a  la  bourgeoise. 
Braised  piece  of  kernel  or  cushion  of  beef  larded, 
finished  in  a  richly  flavoured  brown  sauce  with  a  little 
tomato  puree,  garnished  with  braised  carrots  and  button 
onions,  and  served  with  its  sauce  well  reduced. 


180  PEACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

Noix  de  boRuf  a  Vetouffade. 

Stewed  piece  of  kernel  of  beef  with  brown  sauce. 

Olives  de  bcBuf  a  VAnglaise. 

Thin  slices  of  rump  steak  stuffed,  rolled,  and  braised, 

served  with  brown  sauce  flavoured  with  Reading  sauce 

chopped  parsley,  and  thin  slices  of  broiled  bacon. 

Miroton  de  hcBuf. 

Shced  cooked  beef,  broiled  in  butter  and  chopped 

onions  and  stewed  in  brown  sauce. 

Lombaire  de  hmuf  au  Madere. 

Braised  lumber  of  beef  with  Madeira-mne  sauce. 

Oreilles  de  boeuf  a  la  Sainte-Menehould. 

Boiled  pickled  ox-ears,  when  cold  dipped  in  batter 

and  fried  in  dripping. 

Paupiettes  de  bceuf  d  la  Biclielieii. 

Sliced  fillets  of  beef   stuffed,  rolled,   and   braised, 

garnished  with  forcemeat  quenelles,  truffles,  mushrooms, 

served  with  Eichelieu  sauce. 

Palais  de  bce,uf  a  VIndienne. 

Curried  ox-palate,  with  boiled  rice. 

Palais  de  bceuf  saute.  Stewed  ox-palates. 

Palais  de  boeuf  aux  macaronis. 

Braised  ox-palates  with  macaronis. 

Palais  de  bceuf  au  gratin. 

Braised  ox-palates,  prepared  and  baked  in  the  gratin 

style. 

Palais  de  boeuf  grilles. 

Pickled  ox-palates   egged  and  crumbed,  dipped  in 

oiled  butter,  and  grilled,  served  with  a  piquante  tomato 

sauce. 


ENTREES  :     BCEUF BEEF  181 

Palais  de  hceuf  a  Vltalienne. 
Stewed  ox-palates  dished  up  in  a  circle  alternately 
with  fried  bread  croutons,  served  with  sauce  Italienne. 

Palais  de  hceiif  a  VOrly. 
Stewed  ox-palate,  spread    when  cold   on   one   side 
with  forcemeat  mingled  with    savoury    herbs,    rolled, 
dipped  in  white  sauce,  egged,  crumbed,  and  fried,  served 
with  tomato  sauce. 

Palais  de  hceuf  a  la  Bavigote. 
Stewed  ox-palates  dressed  in  a  border  of  fried  bread, 
and  sauced  well  with  Eavigote  sauce. 

Poitrine  de  hceuf  frite  a  la  Sainte-Meneliould. 
Boned  and  braised  breast  of  beef,  cut  mto  small 
slices,  egged,  crumbed,  and  fried  in  clarified  butter  or 
dripping. 

Haricot  de  queue  de  hceuf. 
Stewed  ox-tail,    served    with    braised    carrots  and 
turnips  neatly  shaped,  small  onions,  and  white  haricot 
beans. 

Queue  de  hceuf  hraisee  aux  olives. 
Braised  ox-tail  served  with  turned  French  olives  and 
brown  sauce. 

Queue  de  hceuf  aux  haricots  verts. 
Stewed  ox-tail  with  French  beans. 

Queue  de  hceuf  a  la  Hotch-'potc'h. 
Hotch-potch  ox-tail  stew,    garnished    with   glazed 
carrots  and  small  onions  (a  national  Scotch  dish). 

Queue  de  hoeif  aux  petits  pois. 
Ox-tail  stewed,  with  green  peas. 


182  PEACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

Rognons  de  hcBuf  sauU. 
Stewed  ox-kidney,  cut  into  thin  slices,  with  shced 
mushrooms. 

Toumedos  de  hcBuf  aux  olives. 
Small  fillet  steaks  broiled,  with  turned  olives. 

Toumedos  a  la  Piemontaise. 
Small  fillet  steaks  grilled,  served  with  minced  fried 
bacon,  veal,  and  mushrooms,  served  with  brown  sauce 
and  fried  potato  croquets. 

Toumedos  a  la  moelle  de  hoeuf. 
Small  fillet  steaks  broiled,  with  beef  marrow. 

Toumedos  aux  truffes. 
Small  fillet  steaks  grilled,  served  with  truffle  sauce, 

Toumedos  d  la  Bordelaise. 
Small  fillet  steaks  broiled,  served  with  a  red  wine 
sauce,    with     chopped     shallots    and    braised    button 
onions. 

Toumedos  d  la  Viennoise. 
Small  fillet    steaks,   chopped    fine,    seasoned    and 
brought  into  shape  again,  broiled,  served  with  brown 
onion  stew,  and  garnished  with  fried  rings  of  onions. 

Toumedos  a  la  NaiJolitaine. 
Small    fillet    steaks    grilled,    served    with    stewed 
nouilles. 

Toumedos  a  la  Nicoise. 
Small   fillet  steaks  grilled,  served  with  demi-glace 
sauce,  mixed  with  tomato  puree,  garnished  with  stuffed 
oUves. 


ENTREES  :     BCEUF BEEF  183 

Tournedos  glaces. 
Small  fillet  steaks  broiled  and  glazed,  served  with 
gravy  sauce. 

Tournedos  d  la  chasseur. 
Small  fillet   steaks    slightly    marinated,    fried    in 
butter,  and  served  with  chasseur  sauce. 

Tournedos  a  la  Colbert. 
Small  round  fillet  steaks  fried  in  equal  parts  of 
sweet  oil  and  butter,  dished  up  "en  couronne,"  centre 
of  dish  filled  with  small  round  fried  potatoes,  garnished 
with  bread  croutons,  and  served  with  shallot  sauce 
reduced  with  sherry  wme. 


AGNEAU— LAMB 

Blanquette  d'agneau  a  la  creme. 
Fricasseed     lamb,    with     sliced     mushrooms    and 
cream. 

Blanquette  d'ag^ieau  aux  petits  pois. 
Fricasseed  lamb  with  green  peas. 

Cotelettes  d'agneau  a  la  jardmiere. 
Fried  lamb  cutlets  with  finely   cut  stewed  spring 
vegetables. 

Cotelettes  d'agneau  aux  petits  pois. 
Broiled  lamb  cutlets  with  green  peas. 


184  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

Cotelettes  d'agneau  aux  truffes. 
Broiled  lamb  cutlets  with  truffles. 

Cotelletes  d'agneau  a  la  Singarat. 
Broiled  lamb   cutlets  with  finely  shred  ox-tongue 
and  onion  stew. 

Cotelettes  d'agneau  a  la  marechal. 
Egged  and  cheese-crumbed  lamb  cutlets  fried,  with 
orange  sauce. 

Cotelettes  d'agneau  a  la  Morland. 
Fried  lamb  cutlets  with  truffle  sauce. 

Cotelettes  d'agneau  a  la  Bobert. 
Fried  lamb  cutlets  with  brown  onion  sauce. 

Cotelettes  d'agneau  aux  epmards. 
Fried  lamb  cutlets  with  spinach. 

Cotelettes  d'agneau  d  la  princesse 
Partly-fried  plain  lamb  cutlets  dipped  in  a  thick 
white  sauce,  mingled  with  finely  chopped  parsley, 
shallots,  mushrooms,  ham,  powdered  sugar,  lemon 
juice,  yolk  of  eggs,  and  grated  nutmeg ;  when  cold 
egged,  crumbed,  and  fried,  served  with  a  puree  of  green 
peas. 

Cotelettes  d'agneati  a  la  superlative. 
Lamb  cutlets  prepared  as   above,    served    with   a 
puree  of  spinach. 

Cotelettes  d'agneau  enpapillotes. 
Partly-broiled  lamb  cutlets  wrapped  in  oiled  paper 
with  ends  twisted  in  closely,  baked  in  the  oven,  and 
served  with  demi-glace  sauce. 


ENTREES :  AGNEAU LAMB  185 

Cotelettes  d'agneau  a  la  minute. 
Plain  fried  lamb  cutlets,  served  with  brown  sauce. 

Cotelettes  cVagneau  aux  concomhres. 
Broiled  lamb  cutlets  with  slightly  fried  cucumbers. 

Cotelettes  d'agneau  a  la  Villeroi. 
Broiled  lamb  cutlets,  pressed,  dipped  in    bechamel 
sauce,  rolled  in  crushed  vermicelli,  egged,  crumbed,  and 
fried. 

Cotelettes  d'agneau  a  la  Sainte-Menehould. 
Lamb  chops  boned,  and  stuffed  with  a  mixture  of 
bechamel  sauce,  grated  cheese,  chopped  shallots,  mush- 
rooms, and  parsley,  fried  in  the  oven,  and  served  with 
Italienne  sauce. 

Cotelettes  d'agneau  a  la  Maltaise. 
Fried  lamb  cutlets,  served  with  Maltaise  sauce,  com- 
posed of  veloute  sauce,  sherry  wine,  lemon  and  orange 
juice,  and  finely  shred  orange  peel. 

Cotelettes  d'agneau  a  la  Cussy. 
Fried  lamb  cutlets,  served  with  a  slightly  buttered 
veloute   sauce,   mingled  with   finely  shred  cooked  ox- 
tongue and  mushrooms. 

Cotelettes  d'agneau  a  la  duchesse. 
Braised  lamb  cutlets,  masked  with  Duxelles  sauce, 
egged,  crumbed,  fried,  and  dished  up  on  a  vegetable 
border,  with  a  puree  of  green  peas  in  centre,  served 
with  sauce  supreme. 

Cervelles  d'agneau  d  la  maitre  dliotel. 
Boiled  sheep's  brains  with  parsley  sauce. 


186  PBACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

Cervelles  d'agneau  en  matelote. 
Braised  sheep's  or  lamb's  brains  with  a  red  wine 
sauce,  served  with  small  discs  of  broiled  bacon  and 
glazed  button  onions. 

Cervelles  d^agneau  f rites. 
Parboiled  sheep's  brains,  egged,  crumbed,  and  fried. 

Coqidlles  de  cervelles  d'agneau. 
Stewed  sheep's  brains,  baked  and  served  in  shells. 

Beignets  de  cervelles  d'agneau  a  la  Turque. 
Parboiled  sheep's  brains,  seasoned,  dipped  in  frying 
batter,  fried,  and  served  with  tomato  sauce. 

Chartreuse  d'agneau  a  la  gastronome* 
Boned  breasts  of  lamb,  stewed  in  white  stock,  cut 
into  strips,  ranged  in  a  cylindrical  mould,  alternately  in 
rows  with  boiled  green  lettuce  stalks,  stewed  '*  au  bain- 
marie,"  and  served  with  demi-glace  sauce. 

Carbonades  d'agneau  a  la  Bechamel. 
Larded  fillets  of  lamb   braised,  and    served   with 
bechamel  sauce. 

Epaule  d'agneau  a  la  Polonaise. 
Boned  shoulder  of  lamb,  braised,  sliced,  dressed  in 
the  centre  of  a  border  of  mashed  potatoes  ;  sauced  over 
with  a  rich  thick  gravy,  sprinkled  over  with  fried  bread 
crumbs,  egged,  baked,  and  served  with  poached  eggs  on 
top  of  bordure. 

Epaule  d'agneau  a  la  imysanne. 
Boned   shoulder   of  lamb    braised,   served  with   a 
garniture  of  stewed  sliced  carrots,  turnips,  and  peeled 
tomatoes.     Sauce  :  demi-glace. 


ENTREES :  AGNEAU — LAMB  187 

Epaule  d'agneau  houillie.      Boiled  shoulder  of  lamb. 

Epaule  d'agneaufarcie. 
Boned  shoulder  of  lamb,  stuffed  and  braised. 

Epaule  d'agneau  a  la  Parisienne. 
Boned   shoulder   of  lamb,     braised,     served    with 
echalote  sauce  and  small  round  fried  potatoes. 

Epatde  d'agneau  glacee. 
Boned  shoulder  of  lamb,  rolled,  braised  and  glazed, 
served  with  demi-glace  sauce. 

Epaule  d'agneau  a  la  Montmorency. 
Boned  shoulder  of  lamb,  stuffed  with  forcemeat, 
larded  and  braised,  served  with  a  garniture  of  cocks- 
combs, mushroom  heads,  truffles,  chicken  quenelles, 
and  slices  of  sweetbread,  done  in  veloute  or  Allemande 
sauce. 

Epaule  d'agneau  a  la  Bretonne. 
Braised  shoulder  of  lamb,  served  with  a  pur^e  of 
white  haricot  beans  and  demi-glace  sauce. 

Epaule  d'agneau  aux  tomates  farcies. 
Braised    shoulder   of    lamb,   with    stuffed    braised 
tomatoes  and  demi-glace  sauce. 

Epaule  d'agneau  piqude,  grilUe. 
Larded  shoulder  of  lamb,  grilled. 

Epaule  d'agneau  a  la  Chevet, 
Boned,  and  larded  shoulder   of  lamb,  roasted  and 
glazed,  served  with  a  brown  sauce  reduced  with  white 
wine,  mingled  with  chopped  shallots  and  parsley. 

12 


188  PRACTICAL   GASTRONOMY 

Epaule  cVag7ieau  braisee.    Braised  shoulder  of  lamb. 

Epatde  d'agnemt  rouUe  aux  petits  pois. 
Rolled  shoulder  of  lamb  braised,  with  green  peas. 

Epaule  d'agneau  braisee  aux  truffes. 
Boned,  rolled  and  stuffed  shoulder  of  lamb  braised, 
served  with  truffles  and  demi-glace  sauce. 

Epigrammes  d'agneau.  Fried  lamb  collops. 

Epigrammes  d'agneau  a  la  P&rigord. 
Fried  lamb  collops,  with  truffle  sauce. 

Epigrammes  d'agneau  d  la  Napolitaine. 
Fried  lamb    collops,  with  stewed    macaronis   and 
tomato  puree. 

Epigrammes  d'agneau  a  la  Parme. 
Lamb   collops   egged   and   crumbed    in   bread  and 
grated  Parmesan  cheese,  and  fried. 

Epigrammes  d'agneau  a  la  Dauphine. 
Partly  cooked  lamb  collops,  dipped  in  a  mixture  of 
butter  and  yolk  of  eggs,  thickly  bread-crumbed,  fried 
and  served  with  a  puree  of  green  peas. 

Epigrammes  d'agneau  cl  la  Bearnaise. 
Small  lamb  chops,  boned,  flattened,  pared  and  fried 
in  butter,  when  cold  immersed  in  veloute  sauce,  dipped 
in  eggs  and  bread  crumbs,  and  fried  in  clarified  butter 
or  dripping,  served  with  Bearnaise  sauce  in  the  centre 
of  epigrammes. 

Epigrammes  d'agneau  a  la  Soubise. 
Lamb  collops  egged,  crumbed  and  fried  in  butter, 
served  with  white  onion  sauce. 


ENTREES :  AGNEAU LAMB  189 

Epigrammes  cVagneau  d  la  Macedoine. 
Lamb  collops  egged,  crumbed  and  fried  in  butter, 
served  with  a  mixture  of  finely  scooped  or  cut  carrots 
and  turnips,  green  peas  and  French  beans.      Sauce  : 
Demi-glace. 

Epigrammes  d'agneau  a  la  puree  de  marrons. 
Lamb  collops,  breaded  and  fried,  served  with  chest- 
nut puree  and  gravy  sauce. 

Foie  d'agneau  a  VAnglaise. 
Stewed  sheep's  liver,  with  fried  rashers  of  bacon. 

Foie  d' agneau  frit. 
Sliced  sheep's  liver  seasoned  and  fried. 

Fricandeau  d'agneaio  aux  petits  pois. 
Fillets  of  lamb  larded  and  braised,  served  with  green 
eas  done  in  fresh  butter. 

Fricassee  d-agneau. 
Stewed  breast  of  lamb  in  white  sauce,  with  chopped 
parsley. 

Fricassde  d'agneau  aux  champignons. 
Stewed  breast  of  lamb  in  white  sauce,  with  sliced 
mushrooms. 

Fricassde  d'agneau  aux  pointes  d'asperges. 
Stewed  breast  of  lamb,  with  asparagus  points. 

Fricassee  d'agneau  aux  houblons. 
Stewed  breast  of  lamb,  with  hop  sprigs. 
Filet  d'agneau  d  la  venaison. 
Rolled  boned  loin  of  lamb,  pickled  in  vinegar  brine 
flavoured  with  cloves,  juniper  berries,  pepper  and  sa- 
voury herbs,   braised  and  served  with    brown    sauce 
mixed  with  sour  cream. 


190  PEACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

Filets  d'agneau  a  la  Villeroi. 
Braised  lamb  fillets,  masked  with  stiff  Allemande 
sauce,   egged,   crumbed  in  bread  and   grated   cheese, 
baked  in  a  quick  oven,  and  served  with  tomato  sauce. 

Langue  d'agneau  braisee.    Braised  sheep's  tongue. 

Langues  d'agneau  marindes. 
Pickled  sheep's   or    lamb's    tongues  broiled,    and 
served  with  brown  sauce. 

Langues  d'agneati,  sauce  Maddre. 
Braised  sheep's  tongues  m  Madeira- wine  sauce. 

Langues  d^agneau  a  la  Duxelles. 
Broiled  sheep's  tongues,  spread  over  with  a  mixture 
of  bread  crumbs,  chopped  shallots,  parsley  and  mush- 
rooms, butter  and  egg-yolks,  dressed  on  a  dish,  sauced 
over  with  Duxelles  sauce  and  baked  in  the  oven. 

Langues  d'agneau  d  la  Souhise. 
Braised  sheep's  tongues,  served  with   white  onion 
pur6e  and  brown  sauce. 

Oreilles  d'agneau  farcies. 
Stuffed  lamb's  ears,  fried  or  braised. 

Oreilles  d'agneau  frites,  sauce  tomate. 
Fried  lamb's  ears,  with  tomato  sauce. 

Oreilles  d'agneau  a  Vltalienne. 
Braised    lamb's    ears   with    Italian    sauce.      (See 
sauces.) 

Oreilles  d'agneau  gratinies. 
Lamb's  ears  baked  in  the  gratin  style. 


ENTREES :  AGNEAU LAMB  191 

Oreilles  d'agneau  d  VIndienne, 
Curried  lamb's  ears,  with  boiled  rice. 

Queues  d'agneau  smitees. 
Stewed  sheep's  or  lamb's  tails  in  brown  sauce. 

Queues  d'agneau  au  riz. 
Stewed  sheep's  tails  with  rice. 

Queues  d'agneau  a  la  piiree  de  pois. 
Stewed  sheep's  tails  dressed  in  a  border  of  pur^e 
of  green  peas. 

Haricot  d'agneau  a  VIndienne, 
Curried  lamb  stew,  with  plain  boiled  rice. 

Haricot  d'agneau  a  la  Parisienne, 
Stewed  neck  and  breast  of  lamb,  in  brown  sauce, 
small  cut  carrots,   turnips,   and  fried  button   onions, 
garnished  with  small  round  fried  potatoes. 

Haricot  d'agneau  aux  petits  pois. 
Stewed  lamb  in  brown  sauce,  with  green  peas. 

Haricot  d'agneau  d  VEcossaise. 
Stewed  lamb  in  brown  sauce,  surrounded  with  small 
forcemeat  timbales  lined  with  thin  pancakes. 

Hachis  d'agneau  d  la  Provengale. 
Hashed  lamb  done  in  brown  onion  sauce,  garnished 
with  stuffed  tomatoes. 

Pieds  d'agneatt  d  la  Villeroi. 
Stuffed  lamb's  feet,  egged,  crumbed  in  bread  and 
cheese  and  fried,  served  with  tomato  sauce. 


192  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

Fieds  d'agneau  d  VIndienne. 
Fried  lamb's  feet  or  trotters,  with  curry  sauce  and 
boiled  rice. 

Pate  de  pieds  d'agneau  d  VAnglaise. 
English  lamb's  feet  pie  (served  hot  or  cold). 

Pieds  d'agneau  d  lapoulette. 
Stewed  lamb's  feet  with  parsley  sauce,  garnished 
with  fried  croutons  or  sippets. 

Pieds  d'agiieau  frits.  Fried  lamb's  feet. 

Poitrine  d'agneau  hraisee.  Braised  breast  of  lamb. 

Poitrine  d'agneau  d  la  Milanaise. 
Braise  d  breast  of  lamb  with  stewed  macaronis. 

Poitrine  d'agneau  d  VEspagnole. 
Rolled  stuffed  breast  of  lamb,  braised  and  served 
with  Spanish  sauce. 

Poitrine  d'agneau  aux  asperges. 
Braised  breast  of  lamb,  with  asparagus  points. 

Poitrine  d'agneati  farcie  a  la  Very. 
Boned  breast  of  lamb,  stuffed  with  veal  forcemeat 
and  braised,  served  with   saute  of  French  beans  and 
demi-glace  sauce. 

Poitrine  d'agiieau  a  la  Ttirque. 
Boned  breast  of  lamb,  stuffed  with  sausage  meat, 
braised,  dressed  in  a  border  of  stewed  rice,  flavoured 
with  saffron  powder,  sauced  over  with  demi-glace. 

Ragout  d'agneau  d  la  Flamande. 
Stewed  breast  of  lamb  with  spring  vegetables  cut 
small. 


ENTREES :  AGNEAU — LAMB  193 

BagoM  d'agneau  aux  petits  pois. 
Stewed  breast  of  lamb  with  green  peas. 

Rognons  d'agneau  au  champagne. 
Minced  lamb's  kidneys,  stewed  with  Champagne  or 
Chablis  wine. 

Bognons  d'agneau  a  la  Frangaise. 
Fried  sliced  sheep's  kidney,  with  shced  mushrooms, 
chopped  shallots  and  parsley. 

Kis  d'agneau  aux  petits  pois. 
Braised    lamb's    sweetbread     larded,    served  with 
green  peas. 

Bis  d'agneau  a  la  jardiniere. 
Braised  lamb's    sweetbreads    larded,    served    with 
finely  cut  spring  vegetables. 

Bis  d'agneau  en  caisses. 
Braised  lamb's  sweetbreads,  served  in  paper  cases. 

Bis  d'agneau  frit.  Fried  lamb's  sweetbreads. 

Coquilles  de  ris  d'agneau. 
Lamb's  sweetbread  stew  baked  in  scollop -shells. 

Bis  d'agneau  au  riz. 
Stewed  lamb's  sweetbreads  with  sliced  mushrooms 
and  white  sauce,  served  in  the  centre  of  a  rice  border. 

Coquilles  de  ris  d'agneau. 
Scolloped  lamb's  sweetbread. 

Tendrons  d'agneau  d  la  puree  de  pommes  de  terre. 
Fried  lamb  gristles  with  mashed  potatoes. 

*  Lamb's  kidneys  should  never  boil,  otherwise  they  will 
not  be  eatable. 


194  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

•     Tendrons  d'agneau  aux  chdtaignes. 
Fried  lamb  gristles  with  puree  of  chestnuts. 

Tendrons  d'agneau  aux  cipes. 
Broiled  lamb's  gristles  with  stewed  cepes  (a  kind  of 
French  mushroom). 

Tete  d'agneau  rotie.  Baked  sheep's  head. 

TSte  d'agneau  braisSe.        Braised  sheep's  head. 

T4te  d'agneau  frite. 
Fried  pieces  of  cooked  sheep's  head  meat. 


MOUTON— MUTTON 

Corbonades  de  mo2iton,  sauce  poivrade. 
Braised  boned  loin  of  mutton,  larded,  served  with 
poivrade  sauce. 

Carbonades  de  mouton  a  Voseille. 
Braised  boned  loin  of  mutton,  larded,  served  with 
puree  of  sorrel. 

Carbonades  de  mouton  a  la  Bretonne, 
Braised  boned  loin  of  mutton,  larded,  served  with 
puree  of  white  haricot  beans. 

Carbonades  de  mouton  a  la  Chartreuse. 
Braised  boned  loin  of  mutton,  larded,  surrounded 
with  small  vegetable  timbales,  groups  of  green  peas, 
sprigs    of   cauhflower,    and    French    beans.      Sauce : 
Demi- glace. 


ENTREES  :  MOUTON — MUTTON        195 

Casserole  de  mouton  d  VAnglaise. 
Boiled  meat  pudding,  lined  with   suet   crust   and 
mashed  potatoes,  filled   with   slices   of  underdone  leg 
of  mutton,  and  seasoning. 

Cervelle  de  mouton  a  la  tomate. 
Braised  sheep's  brains  with  tomato  sauce. 
Cervelle  de  mouton  aux  epinards. 
Braised  sheep's  brains  with  spinach. 

Cotelettes  de  mouton  au  naturel. 
Plain  broiled  mutton  cutlets. 

Cotelettes  de  mxyuton  a  la  minute. 
Plain  grilled  mutton   cutlets,   with  brown    sauce, 
chopped  mushrooms  and  shallots. 

Cotelettes  de  mouton  a  la  Soyer. 
Par-broiled  mutton  cutlets,  or  small  chops  seasoned, 
sprinkled   with   finely   chopped   parsley,  shallots    and 
savoury   herbs   fried   in   butter,    served    with    maitre 
d'hotel  butter  flavoured  with  garlic. 

Cotelettes  de  mouton  a  VIndienne. 
Fried  mutton  cutlets  with  curry  sauce  and  boiled 
rice. 

Cotelettes  de  mouton  a  la  Nelson, 
Par-broiled   mutton   cutlets,  covered   with  chicken 
forcemeat,  onion  puree,  and  grated  cheese,  baked  in 
the  oven,  served  with  demi-glace  sauce. 

Cotelettes  de  mouton  d  la  Bardoux. 
Breaded  mutton  cutlets,  broiled   in   butter,  served 
with  green  peas   mixed  with  coarsely  chopped  fried 
ham. 


196  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

Cotelettes  de  mouton  d  la  Bouchere. 
Breaded  mutton  cutlets  fried,  served  plain. 

Cotelettes  de  mouton  a  la  Byron. 
Par-broiled  mutton  cutlets,  pressed,  immersed   in 
thick  gravy   sauce,  egged,  crumbed   and  fried,  dished 
up  in  a  circle  with  stewed  mutton  kidneys  in  centre. 

Cotelettes  de  taouton  d  la  Milanaise. 
Grilled  mutton    cutlets  dressed  in  the  centre  of  a 
rice  border,  the  rice  being  stewed  with  tomato  puree 
and  Parmesan   cheese.     Demi-glace   sauce   is    served 
round  the  cutlets. 

Cotelettes  de  mouton  d  la  Provengale, 
Par-broiled    mutton    cutlets    covered    with    onion 
puree,    egged,    dipped   in   bread    crumbs    and    grated 
cheese,   fried   and  served  vnth.  olive -shaped   fried  po- 
tatoes. 

Cotelettes  de  mouton  d  la  jardijiiere. 
Broiled  mutton  cutlets  with  cut  spring  vegetables. 

Cotelettes  de  mouton  d  la  Dreux. 
Fried     mutton     cutlets     garnished    with    coarsely 
minced  fried  bacon,  tongue  and  gherkins,  dished  up  in 
a  circle  with  mashed  potatoes  in  centre. 

Cotelettes  de  mouton  d  la  Pomj^adour. 
Fried  mutton  cutlets,  stuffed  with  onion  puree. 

Cotelettes  de  mouton  d  la  St.-Geimain. 
Broiled  mutton  cutlets  Tsath  puree  of  green  peas. 

Cotelettes  de  mouton  d  la  Soubise. 
Braised   mutton   cutlets   with   white   onion    sauce 
(Soubise  sauce). 


ENTREES  :  MOUTON — MUTTON        197 

Cotelettes  de  mouton  a  la  Mainte7ion. 
Mutton  cutlets  split  open,  filled  with  a  stufiing  of 
chopped  mushrooms,  parsley,  shallots  and  chicken 
forcemeat,  broiled  and  baked  in  the  oven,  dressed 
alternately  with  heart  shapes  of  tongue  and  ham,  and 
served  with  Italian  sauce. 

Cotelettes  de  moitton  d  V Avignonnaise. 
Boiled  mutton  chops  or  cutlets,    drained,   dressed 
in    a   circle    on   a   baking  dish,   masked  with   a  rich 
veloute  sauce,  sprinkled  with  fresh  bread  crumbs  and 
Parmesan  cheese,  and  baked  in  the  oven. 

Cotelettes  de  mouton  d  la  Choiseul. 
Mutton  cutlets  spread   over   with  veal   forcemeat, 
mixed    with    fine    herbs    and    chopped    mushrooms, 
wrapped  in  pig's   caul   or  lamb's  leaf-fat,   dipped  in 
oiled  butter  rolled  in  fresh  bread  crumbs  and  fried. 
Cotelettes  de  mouton  a  la  Clamart. 
Breaded  mutton  cutlets,  fried,  dished  up  in  a  circle 
with  puree  of  green  peas  in  centre,  served  with  demi- 
glace  sauce.  "^ 

Cotelettes  de  inouton  d  la  puree  de  pommes  de  terre. 
Fried  mutton  cutlets  with  mashed  potatoes. 

Cotelettes  de  mouton  d  Vltalienne. 
Mutton  cutlets  steeped  in  a  mixture  of  salad  oil  and 
chopped  savoury  herbs,  crumbed  in  finely  chopped 
mushrooms,  parsley,  shallots,  lemon-peel,  powdered 
mace  and  bread  crumbs,  fried  in  clarified  butter,  and 
served  with  Italian  sauce. 

Cotelettes  de  mouton  aux  tomates. 
Fried  mutton  cutlets  with  tomato  puree. 


198  PRACTICAL   GASTRONOMY 

Cotelettes  de  mouton  a  la  St.-Cloud. 
Larded  mutton   cutlets   with   truffles,   broiled  and 
served  with  gravy  sauce. 

Cotelettes  de  mouton  aux  haricots  verts. 
Fried  mutton  cutlets,  with  French  beans. 

Cotelettes  de  mouton  a  la  financiere. 
Egged  and  crumbed  mutton  cutlets  broiled  in  butter 
and  served  with  financiere  sauce. 

Cotelettes  de  mouton  a  la  Franqaise. 
Egged  and  crumbed  mutton  cutlets  fried  in  butter, 
garnished  with  macedoine  of  vegetables  and  served  with 
Madeira  wine  sauce. 

Cotelettes  de  mouton  a  la  Madras. 
Fried     mutton     cutlets    crumbed    in    fresh  bread 
crumbs  mixed  with  finely  chopped  ham,  garnished  with 
piccalilly  pickle  cut  in  julienne  shreds  and  served  with 
curry  sauce. 

Cdtelettes  de  mouto7i  a  la  Mancelle, 
Plain  broiled  mutton  cutlets,  dished  up  in  a  circle 
with  puree  of  chestnuts  in  centre,  and  served  with  demi- 
glace  sauce. 

Cdtelettes  de  mouton  a  la  Nivernaise. 
Plain  broiled  mutton  cutlets,  served  with  glazed 
turnips  in  centre  and  gravy  sauce. 

Cdtelettes  de  mouton  a  la  Salva7ity. 
Braised  neck  of  mutton,  divided  into  cutlets,  dished 
up  and  served  with  puree  of  green  peas  in  centre. 
Sauce :  Demi-glace, 


ENTEEES  :  MOUTON MUTTON        199 

Cotelettes  de  mouton  sauce  piquante. 
Fried  mutton  cutlets  with  piquante  sauce. 
Cotelettes  de  mouton  a  la  chasseur. 
Broiled  mutton  cutlets  with  finely  chopped  mush- 
room sauce. 

Cotelettes  de  mouton  d  la  princesse. 
Par-broiled  mutton  cutlets  covered  with  forcemeat, 
mixed  with   finely   chopped    mushrooms   and  truffles, 
egged,  crumbed  and  fried  in  clarified  butter,  served  with 
Perigord  sauce. 

Cotelettes  de  moii^ton  a  la  Vatel. 
Stuffed  mutton  cutlets  with  chicken  forcemeat  and 
finely  chopped  truffles  fried  and  garnished  with  finan- 
ci^re  ragout. 

Cotelettes  de  mouton  a  la  Beforme. 
Mutton  cutlets  crumbed  in  white  bread  crumbs 
mixed  with  finely  chopped  ham ;  fried  in  butter, 
garnished  with  mushrooms,  truffles,  piccalilly  pickles, 
ham  and  hard-boiled  white  of  eggs,  all  cut  into  fine 
julienne  strips  and  served  with  poivrade  sauce,  mixed 
with  red  currant  jelly,  or  with  sauce  a  la  Eeforme. 
(See  Sauces.) 

Cotelettes  de  mouton  a  la  Singarat. 
Fried  mutton  cutlets  larded  with  strips  of  smoked 
ox- tongue. 

Cotelettes  de  mouton  d  la  Vicomtesse. 
Mutton  cutlets,  grilled  and  pressed,  immersed  in  a 
well  reduced  Madere  sauce,  egged,  crumbed  and  fried. 
Dished  up  in  a  circle  with  a  mixture  of  spring  vegetables 
in  centre  and  served  with  demi-glace  sauce. 


200  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

Cotelettes  de  moictoyi  a  la  Soyer. 
Boned  mutton   chops,    seasoned,    dipped    in   oiled 
butter,  sprinkled  with  fresh  bread  crumbs,  and  fried, 
served  with  demi-glace  sauce  and  red  currant  jelly. 
Cous  de  mouton  en  ragoiU. 
Stewed   scrags   of  mutton    with    carrots,   turnips, 
onions  and  mushrooms. 

Cous  de  mouton  a  la  jardiniere. 
Stewed  scrags  of  mutton,  garnished  with  a  mixture 
of  carrots,  turnips,  peas,  and  French  beans. 
Escalopes  de  mouton  a  la  chiioolata. 
Fried  crumbed  mutton  collops,  cut  from  the  chump 
ends  of  loins  of  mutton,  garnished  with  braised  chest- 
nuts, carrots,  turnips,  and  small  onions,  pieces  of  fried 
sausages,  and  fried  potato  dumplings. 

Escalopes  de  mouton  aux  fines  herbes. 
Broiled  mutton  collops,  cut  from  the  chump  ends  of 
loins,  served  with  a  white  sauce,  mixed  with  chopped 
mushrooms,  shallots  and  parsley. 

Escalopes  de  mouton  a  la  ptcree  de  champignons. 
Broiled  mutton  collops,  with  fresh  mushroom  puree. 

Epaule  de  mouton  a  la  Windsor. 
Boned  rolled  shoulder  of  mutton,  braised,  garnished 
with   cauliflower,  carrots,    turnips,   capers,    and  fried 
potato  croquets. 

Epaule  de  mouton  a  la  Sainte-Menehould. 
Shoulder  of  mutton  braised  with  carrots,  turnips, 
bacon  and  savoury  herbs,  when  done  cut  in  slices, 
dished  up,  covered  with  brown  sauce  bread  crumbs,  and 
small  pieces  of  butter,  browned  in  a  hot  oven  or  with  a 
salamander. 


ENTREES  :  MOUTON — MUTTON         201 

Filet  de  mouton  hraisS  d  VAnglaise. 
Boned  loin  of  mutton  stuffed  with  forcemeat,  braised, 
glazed  and  served  with  French  beans. 

Filet  de  mouton  a  la  venaison. 
Larded  loin  of  mutton,  boned,  pickled  and  braised, 
served  with  piquante  sauce. 

Filets  mignons  de  mout07i  d  la  Byron. 
Broiled  mutton  fillets  cut  from  the  loin,  served  with 
onion  puree  and  stewed  sheep's  kidneys. 

Filet  de  mouton  d  la  Gascogne. 
Boned  piece  of  lean  mutton,  larded  with  anchovy 
fiUets,  braised  and  served  with  a  brown  sauce,  flavoured 
with  garHc. 

Filet  de  mouton  d  la  minute. 
Small  slices  of  tender-loin  of  mutton,  seasoned  and 
broiled,  served  with  plain  gravy  sauce. 

Filet  de  mouton  d  la  Polonaise. 
Larded  loin  of  mutton  (lean  part),  pickled,  braised, 
and  served  with  stuffed  mushrooms. 

HacMs  de  mouton  aux  ceufs  poches. 
Hashed  mutton  with  poached  eggs. 

Hachis  de  mouton  d  la  Pompadour. 
Hashed  mutton,  with  stewed  mushrooms,  truffles, 
and  artichoke-bottoms. 

Hachis  de  mouton  d  VEcossaise. 
Hashed  mutton  laid  in  a  pie  dish,   covered   with 
bechamel  sauce  and  bread  crumbs,  and  baked  in  the 
oven. 


202  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOlVrY 

Hachis  de  mouton  a  la  Portugaise. 
Sliced  roast  leg  of  mutton  browned  slightly  in  butter 
with  ham,  carrots,  shallots,  a  little  garlic  and  parsley^ 
braised  in  Madeira  wine  sauce. 

Haricot  de  mouton. 

Pieces  of  loin  or  neck  of  mutton,  fried  in  butter 
with  a  few  carrots,  turnips,  and  onions,  drained  and 
stewed  in  brown  sauce,  dished  up  in  the  centre  of  a  dish 
surrounded  with  vegetable  garniture  and  fried  bread 
croutons. 

Haricot  de  mouton  a  la  Bourgeoise. 

Pieces  of  neck  or  breast  of  mutton  braised  with 
vegetables,  garnished  with  same,  and  small  braised 
button  onions  and  boiled  potato  dumplings. 

Haricot  de  mouton  a  la  Messoise. 
Stewed  loin  or  neck  of  mutton,  served  with  sauer- 
kraut and  small  smoked  ham  sausages. 

Langues  de  mouton  braisees. 
Sheep's  tongues  blanched  split  in  half  and  braised, 
garnished  with  a  puree  of  turnips,  braised  onions  and 
carrots. 

Langues  de  mouton  aux  petits  pois. 
Broiled  sheep's  tongues,  with  green  peas. 

Langues  de  mouton  aux  ^pinards. 
Broiled  sheep's  tongues,  with  spinach. 

Langues  de  mouton  en  papillotes. 
Braised  sheep's  tongues,  dressed  in  paper  cases,  and 
glazed. 


ENTREES  :  MOUTON MUTTON         203 

Lajigues  de  mouton  aux  olives. 
Braised  sheep's  tongues  with  French  olives. 

Langues  de  tnouton  a  la  Soubise. 
Braised  sheep's  tongues  with  onion  puree.    (Soubise 
sauce.) 

Langues  de  mouton  a  la  Duxelles. 
Boiled  sheep's  tongues,  split,  ranged  on  a  dish, 
spread  over  mth  a  mixture  of  soaked  bread,  chopped 
parsley  or  mushrooms,  Qgg  yolks,  and  seasoning,  sauced 
over  with  Duxelles  sauce,  sprinkled  with  bread  crumbs, 
and  baked  in  the  oven.     . 

Longe  de  mouton  en  chevreuil. 
Boned  loin  of  mutton  stewed  in  a  strong  game  stock 
with  plenty  of  savoury  herbs,  carrots,  onions,  pepper- 
corns, and  juniper  berries,  served  with  port  wine  sauce. 
Longe  de  tnouton  a  la  demi-glace. 
Braised  loin  of  mutton  with  demi-glace  sauce. 

Longe  de  mouton  a  la  Celestine. 
Braised  loin  of  mutton  with  stuffed  rolled  pancakes, 
dipped  in  frying  batter  and  fried. 

Longe  de  mouton  a  la  Duhonzed. 
Roast  loin  of  mutton  boned,  with  stuffed  potatoes 
and  tomato  sauce. 

Mouton  e7i  ragoitt  d  VIrlandaise, 
Irish  stew.     (Mutton  stewed  in  stock  with  potatoes 
and  onions.) 

Pieds  de  mouton  d  la  poulette. 
White  stew  of  sheep's  trotters  with  sliced  mushrooms 
and  chopped  parsley. 

13 


204  PRACTICAL   GASTRONOMY 

Pieds  de  mouton  frits  a  la  Tartare. 
Fried  sheep's  trotters  with  Tartare  sauce. 

Pieds  de  mouton  frits  a  la  tottiate. 
Fried  sheep's  trotters  with  tomato  sauce. 

Pieds  de  mouton  a  la  Bouennaise. 
Boiled  sheep's  trotters,  stuffed  \vith  sausage  meat, 
dipped  in  frying  batter,  and  fried  in  hot  fat,  served  with 
piquante  sauce. 

Poitrine  de  mouton  aux  macaronis. 
Breast  of  mutton  cut  into  square  pieces,  stewed,  and 
served  with  stewed  macaroni  and  tomato  sauce. 

Poitrine  de  tnouton  aux  petits  pois. 
Breast  of  mutton  cut  into  square  pieces,  stewed  the 
same  way  as  ragout  with  green  peas. 

Poitrine  de  mouton  a  la  Nivernaise. 
Braised  breast  of  mutton  stuffed,  served  with  braised 
turnips. 

Poitrine  de  mouton,  sauce  piquante. 
Braised  breast  of  mutton  with  piquante  sauce. 

Poitrine  de  mouton,  sauce  Bobert. 
Braised  breast  of  mutton  with  brown  onion  sauce. 

Poitrine  de  mouton  aux  haricots  verts. 
Braised  breast  of  mutton  with  French  beans. 

Queues  de  mouton  hrais&es  a  la  Franqaise. 
Sheep's  tails  braised,  with    carrots,  turnips,  small 
onions,  garnished  with  the  vegetables  and  fried  pota- 
toes. 


ENTREES  :  MOUTON — MUTTON        205 

Queues  de  moutoji  aux  &pmarcls. 
Braised  sheep's  tails  with  spinach. 

Queues  de  mo^tton  d  la  jardiniere. 
Braised  sheep's  tails  with  finely  cut  mixed  spring 
vegetables. 

Kognons  de  mouton  a  la  maitre  d'hotel. 
Broiled  sheep's  kidneys  with  maitre  d'hotel  butter. 

Bognons  de  mouton  panes. 
Parboiled   split   sheep's    kidneys  put   on    skewers, 
buttered,  bread  crumbed,  and  baked  in  the  oven,  or  fried 
in  butter. 

Bognons  de  rnotito^i  a  la  Turhigo. 
Sliced  sheep's  kidneys  stewed  with  finely  chopped 
shallots  and  white  wine   mixed   with  small  pieces  of 
sausages  and  discs  of  broiled  lean  bacon. 

Bognons  de  moiiton  saiUes  a  la  Franqaise. 

SHced  sheep's  kidneys,  seasoned  with  Cayenne 
pepper,  broiled  over  a  quick  fire,  when  partly  done 
drudged  with  flour,  and  finished  with  demi -glace  sauce, 
garnished  with  fried  croutons,  and  sprinkled  with 
chopped  parsley. 

Bognons  de  mouton  a  Vepicurienne. 

Split  sheep's  kidneys,  broiled,  the  centres  filled 
with  a  thick  Tartare  sauce,  garnished  with  small  round 
fried  potatoes,  served  with  poivrade  sauce. 

Bognons  de  mouto7i  a  la  Chinoise. 
Grilled  split  sheep's  kidneys,  the  centres  filled  with 
stewed  asparagus  points,  served  with  tomato  sauce  and 
garnished  with  whole  fried  eggs. 


206  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

Bognons  de  vwuton  a  la  brochette. 
Sheep's  kidneys  broiled  on  skewers. 

Bognons  de  mouton  sauUs  au  Maddre. 
Sliced  stewed  sheep's  kidneys  with   Madeira  wine 
sauce. 

Bognons  de  mouton  mix  fines  lierhes. 
Broiled    sheep's  kidneys,    when    done   filled    with 
maitre  d'hotel  or  parsley  butter,  served  with  a  little 
demi-glace  sauce. 

Bognons  de  mouton  au  heurre  d'anchois. 
Broiled  sheep's  kidneys  with  anchovy  butter. 


PORC— PORK 


Carbonade  de  pore  a  la  Francaise. 
Stewed  belly  of  fresh  pork  with  vegetable  garnishing 
and  brown  sauce. 

Caree  de  pore  a  la  Nivernaise. 
Braised  neck  of  pork  with  small  glazed  onions  and 
turnips. 

Caree  de  pore  a  VIndienne. 
Curried  neck  of  pork  with  boiled  rice. 

Caree  de  pore  braisee,  sauce  piquante. 
Braised  neck  of  pork  with  poi\Tade  sauce. 


entrees:   porc — pork  207 

Cervelles  de  porc  a  la  clemi-glace. 
Boiled  pork  brains  with  demi-glace  sauce. 

Cervelles  de  pore  a  Vltalienne. 
Boiled  pork  brains  with  Italian  sauce. 

Cotes  de  porc  d  la  diplomats 
Braised  spare  ribs  of  pork,  garnished  with  stewed 
red  cabbage,  fried  pork  sausages,  and  stuffed  potatoes. 

Cotelettes  de  porc  grillees.  Broiled  pork  cutlets. 

Cotelettes  de  porc  7nari7iees. 
Pickled  pork  cutlets,  fried  in  oil,  drained,  and  served 
with  tomato  sauce. 

Cotelettes  de  porc  aux  haricots  blancs. 
Pork  cutlets  fried,  served  with  a  puree  of   white 
haricot  beans. 

Cotelettes  de  porc  a  la  Soubise. 
Fried  pork  cutlets  served  with  onion  puree. 

Cdtelettes  de  porc  a  la  Navarraise. 
Pickled   pork   cutlets,   fried,  and   stewed  in  brown 
sauce  and  shced  tomatoes,  dressed  round  a  rice  stew. 

Cdtelettes  de  porc  a  VIndienne. 
Fried  pork  cutlets,  finished  in  curry  sauce  and  served 
with  boiled  rice. 

Cotelettes  de  porc  a  la  Bohert. 
Fried  pork  cutlets  with  brown  onion  sauce. 

Cotelettes  de  porc  aux  fines  Jierhes. 
Broiled  pork  cutlets  with  a  white  wine  sauce  con- 
taining chopped  parsley  and  mixed  savoury  herbs. 


208  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

Cotelettes  de  pore  aux  lentllles. 
Fried  pork  cutlets  with  a  puree  of  lentils. 

Cotelettes  de  pore,  sauce  aux  pommes. 
Fried  pork  chops  with  apple  sauce. 

Cotelettes  de  pore,  sauce  piquante. 
Fried  pork  cutlets,  or  chops,  with  piquante  sauce. 

Jambon  grille  aux  petits  pois. 
Grilled  ham  with  gi-een  peas. 

Jambon  bouilli,  sauce  Madere. 
Boiled  ham  with  Madeira  wine  sauce. 

Jamhon  braise  aux  nouilles. 
Braised  ham  with  nouilles. 

Jambon  braise  au  champagne. 
Braised  ham  with  Champagne  wine  sauce. 

Jambon  aux  oeufs. 
Broiled  slices  of  ham  with  poached  or  fried  eggs. 

Beignets  de  jambon.  Ham  fritters. 

(Minced  ham  mixed  with  yolks  of  eggs  and  bechamel 
sauce,  shaped  into  small  rolls  or  balls,  dipped  in  savoury- 
frying  batter,  and  fried  in  clarified  butter.) 

Jambon  braise  a  la  Francaise. 
Parboiled  ham   braised   in  Espagnole  sauce,  with 
sherry  or  Madeira  wine. 

Jambon  a  la  Polonaise. 
Braised  ham   with  pease   pudding,  sourcrout,  and 
small  smoked  pork  sausages. 


ENTREES  :     PORC — PORK  209 

Jamhon  a  la  Comtoise. 
Braised  ham  with  Madeira  wine  sauce  and  sourcrout 
garnish. 

Jamhon  d  la  Bayonnaise. 
Braised  ham,  with  chopped  onions  fried,  dressed  on 
stewed  rice,  garnished  with  pieces  of  fried  sausages, 
served  with  demi-glace  sauce. 

Jamhoji  braise  a  la  choucroute. 
Braised  ham  with  stewed  sourcrout  (Sauerkraut). 

Jamhon  a  V Alsacienne. 
Braised  ham  with  sourcrout,  mashed  potatoes,  and 
Strasburg  sausages. 

Jamhon  a  la  Busse. 
Braised  ham  with   small  stuffed  spring    cabbages 
and  stewed  rice. 

Jamhon  glace  a  la  Clamart, 
Braised  ham,  glazed  with  reduced  demi-glace,  served 
with  a  pur^e  of  green  peas. 

Jamhon  a  VAnglaise. 
Parboiled  ham,  wrapped  in  a  crust  of  paste  made 
of  flour  and  water,  set  to  roast  in  a  braisiere  with  white 
wine,  butter,  and  seasoning,  and  served  with  the  crust 
and  skin  removed,  with  wine  sauce  well  reduced. 

Jarrets  de  pore  marine  a  V Allemande. 
Boiled  pickled  knuckles  of  pork  with  stewed  sour- 
crout, forcemeat  dumplings,  and  white  sauce. 

Langues  de  pore  a  Vltalienne. 
Braised  pork  tongues  with  brown  sauce  and  chopped 
preserved  mushrooms. 


210  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

Langues  de  pore  a  la  Lyonnaise. 
Boiled  pork  tongues  with  broiled  sliced  onions  and 
brown  sauce. 

Oreilles  de  pore  en  vinaigrette. 
Boiled  pickled  pig's  ears,   with  vinaigrette   sauce 
garnished  with  hard-boiled  eggs,  capers,  gherkins,  and 

olives. 

Oreilles  deporc  en  inenus  droits. 

Pickled  pig's  ears,  braised  and  served  with  finely 

sliced  fried  onions. 

Oreilles  de  pore  f rites,  sauce  Tartare. 

Boiled  pickled  pig's  ears,  soaked  in  oil  and  chopped 

savoury  herbs,  dipped  in  frying  batter,   and  fried  in 

clarified  butter,  served  with  Tartare  sauce. 

Palais  de  pore  grathie. 

Boiled  pig's  palate,  seasoned,  dished  in  a  gratin  dish 

with  bechamel  sauce,  a  few  sliced  mushrooms,  fresh 

bread  crumbs,  small  pieces  of  butter,  and  baked  in  a 

quick  oven. 

Palais  de  pore  aiix  champignons. 

Stewed  pig's  palate  with  sliced  mushrooms. 

Pieds  de  cocJion  au  Madere. 

Stewed  pickled  pig's  trotters  (pig's  feet)  with  Madeira 

wine  sauce. 

Pieds  de  cochon,  sauce  piquante. 

Pickled  pig's  feet  stewed  and  served  mth  piquante 

sauce. 

Pieds  de  cochon  en  fricassee. 

Fricasseed  pig's  feet.      (White   sauce   and    mush- 
rooms.) 


ENTREES :     PORC — PORK  211 

Pieds  de  cochon  a  la  Sainte-Menehould. 
Pickled  pig's  feet,  boned,  boiled,  and  stuffed,  dipped 
in  seasoned  frying  batter,  fried  in  clarified  butter,  served 
with  piquante  or  Eobert  sauce. 

Pieds  de  cochon  au  vin  de  Chamjpagne. 
Pickled  pig's  feet,  stewed  in  champagne  wine  sauce. 

Pieds  de  cochon  farcis  a  la  Perigiieux. 
Pickled  pig's  feet  stuffed  with  finely  chopped  truffles, 
braised,  and  served  with  truffle  sauce. 

Saucisses*  de  pore  aux  truffes. 
Fresh   German  pork   sausages   (Bratwiirste)    fried, 
served  with  truffle  sauce. 

Saucissons  de  pore  a  la  Lyonnaise. 
Fried  pork  sausages  with  braised  sliced  onions. 

Saucisses  de  pore  d  la  puree  de  pommes  de  terre. 
Fried  pork  sausages  with  mashed  potatoes. 

Tete  de  pore  a  la  poulette. 
Boiled  pickled  pig's  head  with  parsley  sauce. 

Tete  de  pore  f rite  J  sauce  remoulade. 
Boiled  pickled  pig's  head,  cut  into  square  pieces, 
well    seasoned,    egged,    crumbed,    fried,    served   with 
remoulade  sauce  and  fried  parsley. 

Tete  de  pore  a  la  mobile. 
Braised  salt  pig's  head,  with  sliced  tomatoes,  slightly 
fried,  dished  up  on  stewed  rice,  and  served  with  demi- 
glace  sauce. 

*  Saucisse    usually    stands    for    fresh    sausage,    whilst 
Saucisson  stands  for  smoked  sausage. 


212  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 


VOLAILLE— POULTRY 

Canards. — Ducks. 

Canard  braise  aux  jjetits  pois. 
Braised  duck  with  green  peas. 

Canard  grille  d  la  Franqaise. 
Duck  divided  down  the  middle,  rubbed  over  with  a 
mixture  of  French  mustard,  chutney  sauce,  and  season- 
ing, broiled  gently  in  butter,  served  with  brown  gravy 
sauce  containing  white  wine,  chopped  lemon  pickles,  and 
preserved  mushrooms. 

Canard  a  Vltaliejine. 
Parbraised  duck,  cut  up,  fried  in  oil  with  chopped 
chieves  parsley  and  herbs,  stewed  in  a  brown  mushroom 
sauce. 

Canard  saute  aux  olives. 
Stewed  duck  with  olives  and  brown  sauce. 

Canard  en  higarades. 
Braised  duck  with  orange  sauce. 

Canard  saute  aux  navets. 
Stewed  duck  with  new  turnips. 

Canard  braise  a  la  Franqaise. 
Braised  duck  (breast  larded)  stuffed  with  chestnuts, 
chopped  onions,  and  savoury  herbs,  served  with  a  port 
wine  sauce. 


ENTREES  :  VOLAILLE — POULTRY       213 

Canard  d  la  Nivernaise. 
Braised  duck  with  glazed  turnips  and  demi-glace 

sauce. 

Canard  a  la  Valencie^me. 

Roast  duck,  garnished  with  rows  of  orange  slices 
and  served  with  orange  sauce. 

Sahnis  de  cayiard. 
Jugged   or   stewed  duck  with  rich  brown   sauce, 
which  should  be  made  out  of  the  duck  giblets. 
Sahnis  de  cafiard  a  la  bourgeoise. 
Stewed  duck,  with  small  onions  slightly  fried  and 
reduced  in  Espagnole  sauce  with  red  wine. 
Salmis  de  canard  a  VIrlandaise. 
Stewed  duck  with   slices  of  fried    onions,    small 
quares  of  ham  fried,  and  port  wine  sauce. 
Salmis  de  canard  a  la  Castillane. 
Roast  duck,   stewed  in  brown   sauce,    with    sour 
orange  juice  and  rind  finely  shred. 

Croustade  de  canard  a  la  ChartroAne. 
French  raised  pie  crust  lined  with  forcemeat  and 
filled  alternately  with  sausage  meat  and  stewed  fillets 
of  duck,  baked  in  the  oven. 

Canard  saute  au  pecheur. 
Stewed  duck  in  demi-glace  sauce,  garnished  with 
crayfish  tails. 

Canard  saute  a  la  chasseur. 
Stewed  duck  with  chopped  mushrooms  and  game 

fillets. 

Canard  saute  a  V Am&ricaine. 

Stewed  duck  in  brown  sauce  with  an  addition  of 
black  currant  jelly. 


^14  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

Canetons. — Duckling. 

Canetons  a  la  Provengale. 
Broiled  quarters  of  duckling   with  braised  carrots, 
turnips,  and  onions  garnished  round  the  dish. 

Canetons  a  la  Bouennaise. 

Roasted  duck  stewed  in  brown  sauce  with  finely 
chopped  duck  liver,  and  shallots. 

As  a  roast,  ducks  can  be  served  in  the  same  manner 
by  stuffing  them  with  a  mixture  of  bread  crumbs, 
chopped  livers  and  hearts,  herb  seasoning,  chopped 
parsley  and  shallots,  egg,  and  fresh  butter. 

Canetons  a  la  Duclair, 
Roasted  ducklings  stuffed  with  the  hearts  and  livers, 
finely  chopped  shallots,  parsley,  and  seasoning,  served 
with  demi-glace  sauce  well  reduced  with  claret  wine, 
orange  juice,  and  chopped  chieves. 

Canetons  a  la  Saint-Mancle. 
Braised    ducklings,    served    with     Madere    sauce, 
surrounded  with   thick     slices     of    cooked   cucumber, 
slightly    fried   in   butter,  and  fried  bread  croutons  or 
sippets. 

Canetons  braises,  sauce  echalote. 
Braised  ducklings  with  brown  shallot  sauce. 

Canetons  aux  petits  pois. 
Stewed  ducklings  with  green  peas. 

Canetons  aux  haricots  verts. 
Stewed  ducklings  with  French  beans. 


ENTREES  :  VOLAILLE — POULTRY       215 

Sahnis  de  canetons  d  la  verjus. 
Stewed  ducklings  in  a  thin  gravy  sauce,  served  with 
a  sauce  prepared  with  Espagnole  sauce,  blanched  green 
grapes,  and  a  little  red  currant  jelly,   which  is  well 
worked  with  fresh  butter  before  the  grapes  are  added. 
Salmis  de  canetons  aux  olives  farcies. 
Stewed  ducklings  in  brown  sauce  with  stuffed  olives. 

Chapons. — Capons  or  Capon  pullets. 

Chapo7is  d  la  Clery. 
Broiled  quarters  of  capon,  with  parsley  and  onion 

sauce. 

Chapofi  braise  d  Vestragon. 

Braised  capon  with  tarragon  sauce. 
Chapo7i  d  la  B^gence, 
Braised  stuffed  capon,    with  a  rich   brown   truffle 

sauce. 

BagoM  de  chapon  aux  petits  pois. 

Stewed  capon  with  green  peas. 

Chapon  braise  d  la  Saint-Cloud. 
Braised  capon  (breast  larded  with  truffles  and  bacon 
strips),  served  with  Madeira  wine  sauce. 

Blanguette  de  chapon  aux  champigjions. 
Quarters  of  capon  boiled  in  white  sauce  (bechamel 
sauce)  with  sliced  mushrooms. 

Hachis  de  chapon  d  la  Victoria. 
Hashed    or    minced    capon,    with    poached    eggs, 
sprinkled  with  finely  chopped  truffles. 

Chapon  saute  d  la  Frangaise. 
Parboiled  capon  cut  into    quarters,  braised,  served 
with  white  wine  sauce,  sliced  truffles,  and  mushrooms. 


216  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

Thnhales  de  chapon  d  la  princesse, 
Timbales  made   of  capon   forcemeat  and  chopped 
truffles,    served    with    white    cream    sauce    or    sauce 
supreme. 

Quenelles  de  chapon  a  la  Vatel. 
Small  boiled   forcemeat   quenelles   made  of  capon 
forcemeat,    chopped  truffles,   and  mushrooms,   served 
with  a  bro\vn  truffle  sauce. 

Chapon  braisd  a  la  Garfield, 
Braised  capon  (breast  larded),  served  with  a  brown 
sauce  mingled  with  cranberry  jelly. 

Chapon  braisi  aux  truffes. 
Braised  capon  (breast  larded  with  truffles),  served 
with  Perigueux  sauce. 

Chapon  houilli  a  la  Genoise. 
Boiled  capon,  served  with  finely-cut  nouilles,  done 
in  veloute  or  Allemande  sauce  mixed  with  parmesan 
cheese  and  curry  sauce. 

Chapon  au  gros  sel. 

Braised  capon  (breast  covered  with  slices  of  peeled 
lemon  and  larded),  served  with  reduced  demi-glace 
sauce,  containing  a  small  quantity  of  coarse  kitchen 
salt  added  just  before  serving  (hence  the  name,  gros 
sel). 

Chapon  d  la  Cavour. 

Stuffed  capon  braised  (breast  larded  and  glazed), 
served  with  reduced  Allemande  sauce  well  worked  with 
meat  extract  and  lemon  juice,  garnished  with  small 
baked  nouilles  or  macaroni  timbales. 


ENTREES  :  VOLAILLE POULTRY       217 

Chapon  d  la  bourgeoise. 
Braised  capon  finished  in  a  brown  sauce  with  tomato 
sauce  and  white  wine  reduced,  garnished  with  groups 
of  glazed  carrots  and  button  onions. 

Chapon  a  la  chanceliere. 
Braised  capon  (breast  larded)  finished  and  served 
with  a  well- spiced  white  wine  sauce  (surface  of  capon 
should  be  glazed). 

Chapon  a  la  Perigueux. 
Roast  capon   stuffed  with  forcemeat  and  chopped 
truffles,   served   with    Perigueux    sauce    and    chicken 
quenelles. 

Chapon  a  la  Piemontaise. 
Roast  capon  stuffed  with  forcemeat  and  sliced  truffles, 
served  with  tomato  sauce  and  ravioli  paste  quenelles, 
which  are  stuffed  with  veal  forcemeat  and  tomato  puree, 
or  paste. 

Dindes. — Turkeys. 

Dinde  en  brioche. 
Fricasseed  turkey  fillets,   dressed  in   a  border  of 
mashed  potatoes  browned  in  the  oven. 
Blanquette  de  dinde. 
Stewed  turkey  in  white  sauce  with  sliced  preserved 
mushrooms. 

Dinde  bouillie  aux  huitres. 
Boiled  turkey  with  oyster  sauce. 

Dinde  a  Vitouffade  aux  concombres. 
Stewed  turkey  with  brown   sauce  and  stewed  cu- 
cumbers. 


218  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

Blanquette  de  dinde  mix  morilles. 
Stewed  turkey  in  white  sauce  with  morels  (a  species 
of  mushroom). 

Dinde  f rite  d  la  tomate. 
Cold  turkey  cut  into  neat  pieces,  seasoned,  egged» 
crumbed,  and  fried,  served  with  tomato  sauce. 

Dinde  grillee  a  la  diahle. 
Cold  roast   turkey  cut   into  pieces,   covered    with 
beurre  diable  (devilled  butter),  grilled  over  a  slow  fire, 
served  with  a  sharp  gravy  sauce,  mixed  with  curry  paste 
or  powder. 

Hachis  de  dinde  d  la  Beine. 
Hashed  or  minced  turkey,  stewed  in  white  sauce, 
served  with  poached  eggs  and  fried  bread  croutons. 

Filets  de  dinde  d  la  cardinal. 
Breasts  of  turkey  boiled  in  white  sauce,  garnished 
with  stewed  crawfish-tails  and  lobster  corals. 

Filets  de  dinde  braisee  aux  4pinards. 
Braised  turkey  breasts,  with  spinach. 

Ailerons  de  dinde  braisee  d  lapur&e  denavets. 
Braised  turkey  wings  with  mashed  turnips. 

Dinde  bouillie  au  cderi. 
Boiled   turkey  with   a   white  sauce  flavoured  with 
celery. 

Dinde  bouillie  sauce  persiL 
Boiled  turkey  with  parsley  sauce. 


ENTREES  :  VOLAILLE POULTRY       219 

Dinde  a  la  chipolata. 
Eoast  turkey  larded  and  stuffed  with  sausage  meat 
and  veal  forcemeat,  dished  up  with  a  ragout  of  pieces 
of  small  round  sausages,  small  squares  of  fried  bacon, 
button  mushrooms,  and  sliced  truffles  done  in  Madere 
sauce,  garnished  with  a  border  of  fancy  forcemeat 
quenelles. 

Dinde  d  la  Beyniere. 
Roast   turkey  dished  up,    surrounded    with    small 
fried  sausages  and  large  chestnuts,    cooked   whole   in 
poultry  broth,   served   with  a  brown  gravy  sauce,    in 
which  the  liver,  previously  braised,  in  turkey  grease, 
and  finely  sliced,  has  been  added  just  before  serving. 
Dinde  a  la  Toulouse. 
Boiled   turkey,    dished  up  with  a  ragout   of  sliced 
mushrooms,   sliced   sweetbread,  sliced  truffles,    cocks' 
combs,  and  forcemeat  quenelles,  done  in  Allemande  or 
veloute  sauce. 

Dinde  a  la  Saint  James, 
Roast   turkey  stuffed  with  sausage  meat,    chopped 
cooked  turkey  liver  and  shallot  seasoning,  served  with 
a  brown  sauce,  and  cranberry  jelly  set  in  fancy  moulds 
and  served  separately. 

Dinde  a  la  Provencale. 
Roast   turkey  stuffed  with   finely  chopped    boiled 
onions,  bread  crumbs,  chopped  parsley,  egg-yolks,  sliced 
truffles,  and  seasoning,  served  with  tomato  sauce. 
Dinde  a  la  Godard. 
Braised  turkey   (breast   larded),  stuffed    with   veal 
forcemeat,  mixed  with  sliced  sweetbread,  mushrooms, 
dished  up  and  garnished  with  sliced  truffles,  mushroom 
heads,  cocks'   combs,  turned  olives,  and  fancy  chicken 
quenelles,  served  with  Madere  sauce. 

14 


220  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

Dinde  a  la  Yorkshire. 
Boned    turkey    stuffed  with   forcemeat    and    thick 
slices    of    cooked    smoked    ox-tongue,   sewn  up  in   a 
cloth  and   boiled,  garnished  with   groups  of  vegetable 
macedoine  and  served  with  bechamel  sauce. 

Filets  de  dinde  d  la  chicoree. 
Braised  fillets  of  turkey  with  endive  or  chicory  puree. 

Cuisses  de  divide  farcies  a  la  Garibaldi. 
Legs  of  turkey  boned,  stuffed  with  chicken  and 
veal  forcemeat,  truffles,  ham  and  tongue  finely  minced, 
braised  slowly  and  served  with  a  garniture  of  stewed 
macaroni  flavoured  with  tomato  puree  and  small  rice 
timbales. 

Cuisses  de  dinde  braisee  a  VIndienne. 
Curried  legs  of  turkey  with  boiled  rice. 

Dindonneau  saute  aux  champignons. 
Young  turkey  stewed,  with  shced  mushrooms. 

Dindonneau  braise  aii  Madere. 
Braised  young  turkey  wdth  Madeira  wine  sauce. 

Oies. — Geese. 

Oie  sautee  a  la  bourgeoise. 
Stewed  goose  with  green  peas,  braised  carrots,  and 

small  onions. 

Oie  braisee  a  la  Polonaise. 

Braised   goose    with    sourcrout   (sauerkraut),   veal 
forcemeat  dumplings,  and  small  smoked  pork  sausages. 

Pate  de  foic  gras  chaud.     Hot  goose  liver  pie. 


entrees:    yolaille — poultry  221 

Timhales  defoie  gras  aux  trujfes. 
Small  goose   liver  timbales,  poached   in   the    oven 
and  served  with  a  white  truffle  sauce. 

Boudins  de  foie  d'oie  a  la  Parisienne. 
Small  goose  liver  sausages,  broiled,  dished  in  the 
centre  of  a  border  of  mashed   potatoes,    served   with 
Madere  sauce. 

Quenelles  de  foie  gras  a  la  Perigueux. 
Small  goose  liver  dumplings,  steamed,  served  with 
a  brown  truffle  sauce. 

Oie  braisee  a  Vetouffade. 
Goose  stuffed  with  a  mixture  of  boiled  onions,  finely 
chopped   onions,    sausage   meat,    bread    crumbs,   and 
seasoning,  braised  in  the  oven,  dished  up  with  a  border 
of  glazed  turnips  and  brown  sauce. 

Oie  a  VAnglaise. 
Koast  goose   stuffed    with   sage    and   onion  filling, 
sauced    with    brown    gravy,    and    served    with    apple 
sauce  (separately). 

Oie  braisee  aiix  chdtaignes. 
Braised  goose,   stuffed  with  veal  forcemeat,  mixed 
with  blanched  chestnuts  (cooked  whole)  and  seasoning,, 
served  with  apple  sauce  (separately). 

Oie  braisee  a  la  Dauphinoise. 
Braised  goose,  stuffed  with  chestnut  puree,  minced 
shallot,   and   seasoning,   served   with    a   brown   sauce 
mingled   with   orange   juice   and   finely  shred  orange 
peel. 


222  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

Oie  a  la  Mont-Vernon. 
Roast  goose,  stuffed  with  boiled  onions  finely 
chopped,  and  mashed  potatoes,  dished  up  with  a 
border  of  halves  of  apples,  baked  brown  with  goose- 
grease  in  the  oven,  and  served  with  brown  gravy 
sauce  mingled  with  a  little  red  currant  jelly. 

Oie  a  Vorange. 
Stewed  or  braised  goose,  dished  up  with  a  border 
of  pared  and  sUced  oranges,  and  served  with  orange 

sauce. 

Oie  a  la  chipolata. 
Pioast   or  braised  goose,  dished   up  with  chipolata 
garnishing  (see  Dinde   a   la  chipolata),     served    with 
apple  sauce. 

Pigeons. — Pigeons. 
Pigeons  farcis  braises.  Braised  stuffed  pigeons. 

Pigeons  braises  aux  champignons. 
Braised  pigeons  with  mushrooms. 

Pigeons  en  compote  aux  petite  pois. 
Stewed  pigeons  with  green  peas. 

Pigeons  d  la  Sainte-MeneJiould. 
Boiled    pigeons   in   rich  white  sauce,   mixed    with 
parsley  and  savoury  herbs,  when  nearly  done   drained, 
egged,   crumbed,    and    fried,  served    with    the    above 
sauce  poured  round  them. 

Pigeons  d  la  crapaudine. 
Split  pigeons,  put  on  skewers,  egged,  crumbed,  and 
broiled  over  a  quick  fire,  served  with  a  brown  sauce, 
stoned  oUves,  and  sliced  truffles. 


ENTREES  :  YOLAILLE — POULTRY        223 

Karri  de  loigeons  (Curried  pigeons). 

Pigeons  cut  into  quarters,  fried  in  butter,  and  cur- 
ried, served  in  a  rice  border. 

Pigeons  a  la  Nivernaise. 

Stewed  pigeons,  with  braised  turnips. 
Pigeo7is  en  matelote. 

Pigeons  cut  into  pieces,  seasoned,  broiled  in  butter 
and  thin  slices  of  bacon,  stewed  in  a  brown  sauce,  white 
wine,  chopped  chieves,  parsley,  thyme,  and  mushrooms, 
garnished  with  fried  button  onions. 

Pate  chaud  de  pigeons  (French  pigeon  pie). 

Pie  crust  filled  with  stewed   pigeons    and    sliced 
mushrooms,  served  hot,  with  poivrade  sauce. 
Pate  de  pigeons  chaud  a  VAnglaise  (English  pigeon  pie). 

Parboiled  stuffed  pigeons  cut  into  halves  filled  into  a 
pie  dish  with  slices  of  rump  steak,  parsley,  seasoning,  and 
hard-boiled  slices  of  eggs,  and  stock,  covered  with  pie 
crust,  and  baked. 

Pigeons  en  papillotes  (Pigeons  in  cases). 

Pigeons  cut  in  halves,  well  seasoned,  covered  with 
a  mixture  of  liver  forcemeat,  chopped  shallots  and 
parsley,  and  sliced  button  mushrooms,  dressed  in  well- 
buttered  paper  cases,  baked  slowly  in  the  oven,  and 
glazed  before  serving. 

Cotelettes  de  pigeons  aux  pointes  d'asperges. 

Pigeons  cut  in  halves,  boned,  seasoned,  and  shaped 
into  cutlets,  parbroiled,  pressed  between  two  dishes, 
egged,  crumbed,  and  baked  in  clarified  butter,  served 
with  a  brown  sauce  (sherry  or  port  wine  sauce),  and 
garnished  with  stewed  asparagus  points. 


224  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

Cotelettes  de  pigeons  aux  petits  pois. 
Pigeon  cutlets  as  above,  garnished  with  green  peas. 

Cotelettes  de  p)igeons  aux  cliampignons. 
Pigeon  cutlets  as  above,  served  with  stewed  sliced 
mushrooms. 

Ponding  de  pigeoiis  a  VAnglaise 

(English  pigeon  pudding). 

Pigeons  cut  into  neat  pieces,  seasoned,  filled  into  a 

pudding  basin  (hned  with  suet  crust),  with  thin  sHces  of 

rump  steak,  chopped  parsley,  stock,  and  hard-boiled  eggs, 

covered  with  suet  crust  and  boiled. 

Cotelettes  de  pigeons  au  supreme. 
Halves  of  pigeons,  boned,  except  the  legs,  flattened, 
seasoned,  fried,  pressed,  pared,  filled  with  chicken 
salpicon  and  truffles,  shaped  into  the  form  of  cutlets, 
egged,  crumbed,  fried,  and  served  with  veloute  sauce, 
thickened  with  cream,  Qgg  yolks,  and  butter. 

Cotelettes  de  pigeons  a  la  Provencale. 
Halves  of  pigeons,  boned,  excepting  legs,  seasoned, 
broiled  in  oil,  pressed,  pared   into  cutlet  shapes,  im- 
mersed in  oiled  butter,  rolled  in  bread  crumbs,   and 
fried  in  butter.     Served  with  Proven9ale  sauce. 
Pigeons  a  rEspagnole. 
Braised  pigeons   with   fiied   squares   of    ham   and 
Espagnole  sauce,  diluted  with  a  little  white  wine  and 
chilli  Adnegar. 

Pigeons  a  la  Talleyrand. 
Braised  pigeons,  dished   up   with  a  garnishing   of 
artichoke  bottoms,  mushroom  heads,  small  squares  of 
chicken  liver  and  ox-tongue,  done  in  a  well-buttered 
veloute  sauce. 


ENTREES  :  VOLAILLB — POULTRY        225 

Chartreuse  de  pigeons  d  la  Bouennaise. 
Braised  pigeons,  dressed  in  a  border  of  carrots, 
turnips,  braised  savoy  cabbage,  and  small  squares  of 
boiled  pickled  pork,  all  set  in  a  symmetrical  row,  with 
carrots  and  turnips  to  the  edge,  garnished  with  slices 
of  smoked  pork  sausages,  and  served  with  demi-glace 

sauce. 

Pigeons  d  la  Marigny. 
Halves  of  pigeons,  seasoned  and  braised,  dressed  on 
heart-shaped  slices  of  smoked  ox-tongue,  covered  with 
oiled  paper,  and  baked  in  the  oven,  served  with  Madere 
sauce. 

Cornpote  de  pigeons  aux  champignons. 
Stewed  pigeons  with  mushrooms. 

Compote  de  pigeojis  aux  petits  pois. 
Stewed  pigeons  mth  green  peas. 

Compote  de  pigeons  d  VAmericaine. 
Stewed  pigeons  with  small  squares  of  fried  bacon 
and  medium-sized  onions,  slightly  sugared  and  fried  in 
butter,  served  with  brown  sauce  mingled  with  a  small 
quantity  of  cranberry  jelly. 

Compote  de  pigeons  d  la  hourgeoise. 
Boiled  pigeons,  stewed  in  brown  sauce  with  claret 
wine,  small  browned  onions,  and  savoury  herb  flavour- 
ing, served  with  a  garniture  of  cooked  carrots,  green 
peas,  and  glazed  onions. 

Compote  de  pigeons  d  la  rentiere. 
Braised  pigeons,    stewed  in   savoury  sauce,  served 
with  its  sauce  strained  and  thickened  with  a  liaison  of 
egg-yolks  and  fresh  butter. 


226  PRACTICAL  gastrono:my 

Poulets. — CMckens. 

Poulet  en  compote. 
Stewed  chicken  with  mushrooms,  fried  rashers  of 
bacon,  and  braised  onions. 

Poulet  d  Vestragon. 
Stuffed    and    barded    roast    chicken,    served   with 
a   rich    brown   gravy  sauce   flavoured  with    tarragon 
leaves. 

Poulet  a  la  Marengo. 

Chicken  cut  into  small  neat  pieces,  seasoned  and 

fried  in  oil  or  butter,  stewed  in  rich  brown  Madeira 

sauce,  with  sliced  mushrooms  and  trulBtles,  garnished 

with  whole  fried  eggs,  bread  croutons,  and  braised  button 

onions. 

Poulets  a  la  Provencale. 

Stewed  chickens  with  braised  onions,  sliced  tomatoes, 
mushrooms,  and  Madere  sauce. 

Poulets  braises  aux  fines  herbes. 
Braised  chickens,  served  with  a  rich  brown  sauce, 
seasoned  with  finely  chopped  chieves,  tarragon,  chervil, 
parsley,  garden  cress,  and  white  wine. 

Poulets  frits  a  la  Tyrolienne. 
Neatly   cut    pieces    of    chicken,    seasoned,    egged, 
crumbed,  and  fried  slowly  in  clarified  butter,  served 
with  tomato  sauce  and  fried  curly  parsley. 
Poulet  bouilli  a  Vestragon. 
Boiled  chicken,  served  with  a  white  sauce,  flavoured 
with  tarragon  leaves. 

Fricassee  cle  poulets  aux  chamjngnons. 
Fricasseed  chickens  with  mushrooms. 


ENTREES  :  VOLAILLE — POULTRY        227 

Poulets  sautes  a  VItalie7ine. 
Stewed  chicken    with   tomato    and    brown    sauce ^ 
dished  in  the  centre  of  a  rice   border   prepared  witli 
tomato  puree  and  parmesan  cheese. 
Poulet  a  Vecarlate. 
Braised   chicken,   dished   up   and    garnished    with 
fancy-shaped  sHces  of  smoked  ox-tongue,  served  with 
a  well-buttered  veloute  sauce. 

Poulet  a  la  Vigo. 
Braised  chicken,  finished  in   Madeira  wine    sauce, 
dished   up    and  garnished  with  small  ripe    tomatoes, 
scalded,  and  baked  whole. 

Poulet  a  Vivoire. 
Boiled  chicken  (breast  covered  with  slices  of  peeled 
lemon  and  barded),  served  with  supreme  sauce. 
Poulet  a  la  Chivry. 
Braised  chicken,  dished  up  with  rings   of  Spanish 
onions,  filled  with  a  mixture  of  chieves,  boiled  onions, 
and  blanched  tarragon  leaves  all  finely  chopped,  sauced 
over    with    a  savoury  herb  sauce  prepared    with   the 
chicken  stock. 

Poulet  a  la  Saint-Cloud. 

Boiled  chicken  (breast  larded  with  truffles  and  ox- 
tongue and  barded),  served  with  supreme  sauce  mingled 
with  finely  chopped  truffle  parings. 

Poulet  a  la  Livournaise. 

Spit  chicken,  flattened,  steeped  in  a  mixture  of 
lemon  juice,  sweet  oil,  flavoured  with  bayleaf,  parsley 
root,  and  onions,  drained,  sprinkled  with  fresh  bread 
crumbs,  and  broiled  slowly  in  butter.  Served  wdth 
Livournaise  sauce,  composed  of  salad  oil,  anchovy  paste, 
egg-yolks,  tarragon  vinegar,  and  seasoning,  all  well 
mixed  and  served  cold. 


228  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

Poulet  d  la  vert-pre. 
Boiled  chicken,  served  with  a  white  sauce  thickened 
-\vith  a  Uaison    of  cream  and    egg-yolks,   tinted   with 
finely  chopped  chervil  and  tarragon  leaves  and  spinach 
greening. 

Poulet  a  la  loolenta. 
Braised  chicken,    finished   in  a   white    wine     and 
tomato  sauce,  dished  up  with  a  border  of  small  maise 
or  polenta  timbales. 

Poulet  a  Varlequin. 
Neatly-shaped  joints  of  chicken  skinned,  larded  with 
truffles  and  bacon,  broiled  in  butter,  and  served  with 
financiere  ragout. 

Poulet  a  la  diahle. 
Spring  chickens,  split  at  the  back,  well  seasoned 
with  plenty  of  Cayenne  pepper,  dipped  in  oiled  butter, 
and  grilled  gently ;  when  done,  spread  over  with  mixed 
mustard  or  devilled  butter. 

Poulet  saute  a  la  PerigiLeux. 
Stewed  chicken  with  truffle  sauce. 

Poulet  saute  a  la  Godard. 
Neatly-shaped   pieces   of   chicken,   skinned,   larded 
with  truffles  and  bacon,  broiled  in  butter,  and  stewed 
in  a  white  sauce  with  chopped  mushrooms.     Garnished 
with  whole  truffles,  heads  of  mushrooms,  and  fleurons 
(small  half-moon  shapes  of  puff  paste  baked). 
Eingra7nmes  de  poulets  aux  tntffes. 
Boned  and  skinned  chicken,  flattened  and  shaped 
hke  collops,  larded  with  truffles,  and  broiled  in  butter, 
served  with  truffle  sauce. 


ENTREES  :  VOLAILLE — POULTRY        229 

Epigrmmnes  cle  poulets  d  la  Villeroi. 
Collops  of  chicken,   seasoned  and  slightly  broiled, 
immersed  in  veloute  sauce,  egged,  crumbed,  and  fried, 
served  with  tomato  sauce. 

Poulet  d  la  Mo7itmorency. 

Braised  chicken  stuffed  with  a  salpicon  of  sweet- 
breads, truffles,  and  mushrooms,  breast  larded,  and 
glazed,  dished  up  with  a  garniture  of  sliced  sweet- 
breads, and  mushroom  heads,  served  with  Madere 
sauce. 

Poulet  a  la  cardinal. 

Boiled  chicken,  breast  bone  removed,  stuffed  with 
veal  forcemeat,  and  dished  up  with  a  garniture  of  fancy 
quenelles  and  slices  of  truffles,  and  served  with  cardinal 
sauce,  composed  of  white  sauce,  anchovy  essence,  lobster, 
butter,  and  chilly  vinegar. 

Poulet  frit  d  VOrly. 
Parboiled  chicken,  cut  into  neat  pieces,   seasoned, 
dipped  in  frying  batter,  and  fried  in  clarified  butter 
served  with  fried  onions,  parsley,  and  tomato  sauce. 

Poulet  poele  aux  groseilles  vertes. 
Stewed  chicken,  in  brown  sauce  with  stewed  goose- 
berries (green). 

Saute  de  potdet  aux  huitres. 
Stewed  chicken  in  white  sauce  with  stewed  oysters. 

Hachis  de  poulet  a  Vecarlate. 
Stewed  fowl  served  with  gravy  sauce  and  garnished 
with  slices  of  braised  ox-tongue. 


230  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

Escalopes  de  poulet  d  V Anglaise. 
Minced  cold  roast  or  boiled  chicken,  stewed  with 
thick  white  sauce  (bechamel  sauce),  well  seasoned, 
filled  in  scollop  shells,  covered  with  white  bread 
crumbs  and  small  pieces  of  butter,  and  baked  in  a. 
quick  oven. 

Filets  de  poulet  a  rimperiale. 

Larded  chicken  breasts,  braised  and  served  with 
minced  game  and  truffles. 

Filets  de  poulet  a  la  jardiniere. 

Chicken  breast  broiled,  garnished  with  young  spring 

vegetables   cut   fine,    and    served  with    brown    gravy 

sauce. 

Fricassee  de  poulet  d  la  Havelock. 

Fricasseed  chicken  in  a  white  sauce  thickened  with 
a  liaison  of  egg-yolks  and  fresh  butter,  fillets  larded, 
braised,  and  glazed,  and  decorated  with  rings  of  ox- 
tongue, dished  up  with  groups  of  truffles,  mushrooms, 
and  cocks'  combs. 

Fricassee  de  poulet  d  la  Saint-Lambert. 

Fricasseed  chicken  dished  up  in  a  pyramidal  form, 
surrounded  with  groups  of  small  braised  carrots,  green 
peas,  and  French  beans. 

Fricassee  de  poulet  d  la  reine. 

Fricasseed  chicken,  dished  up  in  a  pyramidal  form, 
garnished  with  chicken  forcemeat  quenelles,  mushroom 
heads,  sliced  truffles,  and  fried  sippets  glazed. 
Fricassee  de  poulet  d  la  chevaliere. 

Fricasseed  chicken  (fillets  larded  and  garnished 
with  fancy-cut  slices  of  truffles,  braised,  and  glazed), 
dished  up  with  a  ragout  of  mushrooms,  truffles,  and 
cocks'  combs,  and  garnished  with  small  fried  chicken 
croquets. 


ENTREES  :  VOLAILLE — POULTRY        231 

Fricassee  de  poulet  aux  ecrevisses. 
Fricasseed  chicken  with  forcemeat  dumplings  and 
stewed  crayfish  tails. 

Poulet  saute  a  la  ferniiere. 
Saute  of   chicken,    sauce  diluted  with  cream  and 
flavoured  with   lemon  juice,  dished  up   in   pyramidal 
form,  sprinkled  with  chopped   parsley  and   garnished 
with  groups  of  small-cut  spring  vegetables. 

Poulet  saute  a  la  Florentine. 
Saute  of  chicken,  flavoured  with  chopped  shallots 
and    green  pepper,  sauce   diluted  with    tomato  puree 
and  white  wine. 

Poulet  saute  d  la  paysanne. 
Stewed  chicken  in  brown  sauce,  with  olive -shaped 
carrots,    turnips,    and     celery    root,    dished    up     and 
sprinkled  with  chopped  parsley. 

Poulet  saute  a  la  Bayonnaise. 
Fried   chicken  joints,   with   coarsely  minced   ham, 
stewed  in  brown  sauce,  sherry  wine,  small  peeled  and 
sliced  tomatoes,  dressed  in  a  border  of  stewed  rice. 

Poulet  saute  a  la  printaniere, 
Saut6  of  chicken,  dished  up  in  pyramidal  form,  gar- 
nished with  groups  of  green  peas,   small-cut    carrots, 
and  French  beans. 

Poulet  saute  a  la  Bearnaise. 
Saute  of  chicken  finished  in  a  veloute  sauce  with 
meat  glaze,  white  wine,  chopped  parsley,  and  tarragon 
leaves,  thickened  with  egg-yolks  and  fresh  butter. 


232  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

Pouletfrit  a  la  Tartare. 
Boiled  chicken  cut  into  neat  little  joints,  seasoned, 
egged,  crumbed,  and  fried  in  clarified  butter,  served 
with  Tartare  sauce. 

Poulet  saute  a  la  bourgeoise. 
Stewed    chicken    in    brown   sauce,   with    chopped 
mushrooms  and  red  wine,  garnished  with  young  green 
peas  and  carrots. 

Poulet  saute  au  riz  gratine. 
Stewed  chicken,  with  discs  of  lean  bacon  and 
chopped  onions,  dressed  on  a  layer  of  boiled  rice, 
covered  with  rice  and  tomato  puree,  sprinkled  with 
bread  crumbs  and  small  jpieces  of  butter,  and  baked  in 
the  oven. 

Karri  de  poulet  a  VIndienne. 
Curried  fowl,  with  Indian  pickles  or  picalilly,  cut  in 
fine  shreds,  served  with  boiled  rice. 

Poulet  marine  frit. 
Cold  roast  chicken  cut  into  pieces,  seasoned,  soaked 
in    lemon    juice    and   oil,    drained,    dipped    in   frying 
batter,  and  fried  in  clarified  butter. 

Hachis  de  poulet  a  la  reine. 
Minced  chicken  in  white  cream  sauce,  dished  up 
with  poached  eggs,  and  sprinkled  with  finely  chopped 
truffles. 

Poulet  en  devii-deuil  en  hlanqiiette. 
Fricasseed  fowls  with  shced  truffles  and  mushrooms. 

Poulet  saute  a  la  Hongroise. 
Saute  of  chicken,  done  in  a  brown  sauce  reduced 
with  boiled  milk,  white  wine,  chopped  parsley,  and  fresh 
butter. 


ENTREES  :  VOLAILLE — POULTRY        233 

Poulet  saute  a  la  Demidojf. 

Saute  of  chicken  done  in  a  brown  sauce,  well  buttered, 

and  diluted  with  Madeira  wine,  served  in  a  border  of 

stewed  rice. 

Poulet  saute  d  la  Lyonnaise. 

Broiled  chicken,  jointed,  stewed  in  tomato  and 
Espagnole  sauce,  with  minced  onions,  fried  in  butter, 
and  well  reduced  with  white  wine. 

Poulet  saute  d  VInkemiaun. 

Saute  of  chicken,  done  in  tomato  sauce  mingled 
with  curry  paste  and  dissolved  meat  glaze,  dished  up 
in  a  pyramid,  garnished  with  fried  eggs  and  small 
squares  of  ham. 

Poulet  d  la  Bomaine. 

Braised  chicken,  finished  in  tomato  sauce  well  re- 
duced with  Madeira  wine,  dished  up  and  garnished  with 
sliced  truffles  and  dressed  macaroni. 

Poulet  a  la  Pondickery. 

Saute  of   chicken,  done  in  a  brown    sauce,  mixed 

with  apple  sauce,  juice  of  mandarin  oranges,  and  the 

rinds  finely  chopped,  served  in  a  border  of  plain  boiled 

rice. 

Poulet  d  la  Paschaline. 

Braised  chicken,  sprinkled  with  chopped  mushrooms, 
sauced  over  with  a  rich  veloute  sauce,  and  garnished 
with  halves  of  hard-boiled  eggs,  stuffed  with  veal  force- 
meat, and  fried. 

Poulet  d  V Americaine, 

Braised  chicken,  served  with  a  brown  sauce  mixed 
with  cranberry  jelly,  and  served  with  fried  bread 
croutons,  glazed  with  reduced  game  essence. 


234  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

Poulet  a  la  general. 
Braised  chicken,  dished  up  with  groups  of  green  peas 
and  asparagus  points,  served  with  Madere  sauce. 
Poularde  braisee  a  la  chicoree. 
Braised  pieces  of   pullets   with    stewed    endive    or 
chicory. 

Poularde  bouilUe  d  la  Turque. 
Boiled  pullet,  cut  up,  dressed  in  the  centre  of  a  rice 
]3order  with  tomato  sauce. 

Poularde  aux  lasagnes. 
Braised  pullet  with  stewed  nouilles. 

Poularde  farcie  a  la  Perigueux. 
Braised  pullet  stuffed  with  forcemeat  and  truffles, 
served  with  truffle  sauce. 

Poularde  sautee  a  la  Saint  Valentin. 
Stewed  pullet  with  finely  chopped  truffles,  mush- 
rooms, garnished  with  heads  of  mushrooms,  hard-boiled 
yolks  of  Qgg,  fleurons  (small  half-moon  shapes  of  puff 
paste,  baked),  and  chopped  parsley,  served  with  orange 
sauce,  reduced  with  Madeira  wine. 

Poulet  saute  a  la  Saint  George. 
Fowl  cut  up  raw  in  neat  joints,  seasoned,  fried  in 
oil,  stewed   in  white  sauce  made  from  chicken  stock, 
served  with  sliced  mushrooms,  and  when   dished  up 
glazed  with  dissolved  meat  extract. 

Timbales  de  poulet  a  la  meridionale. 
Chicken  timbales,  prepared  with  finely  minced 
chicken  meat,  demi-glace  sauce,  panade,  and  Worcester 
sauce,  filled  in  timbale  moulds  with  some  well -reduced 
tomato  puree  in  the  centre,  steamed  in  the  oven,  and 
served  with  Madeira  wine  sauce. 


ENTREES  :  VOLAILLB — POULTRY        235 

Cuisses  de  volaille  d  la  Wellington. 
Chicken  legs  fried  in  oil,  drained,  and  finished  in 
a  chutney  sauce. 

Cuisses  de  volaille  d  la  Florentine. 
Chicken  legs  fried  in  butter,  immersed  in  supreme 
sauce,    egged,   crumbed  in   fresh  bread    crumbs  and 
grated  parmesan  cheese,  fried  in  clarified  butter,  and 
served  with  tomato  sauce. 

Poulet  saute  d  la  chasseur. 
Saute  of  chicken  finished  in  Espagnole  and  tomato 
sauce    with    white    wine,   chopped  parsley,     chopped 
mushrooms,  and  lemon  juice. 

Poulet  frit  d  la  Dauphine. 
Broiled  chicken  joints  immersed  in  veloute  sauce, 
egged,  crumbed,  fried,  dished  up,  and  garnished  with 
groups  of  spring  vegetables  neatly  shaped,  served  with 
bechamel  sauce. 

Poulet  frit  d  la  Viennoise. 

Boned  chicken  cut  into  neat  pieces,  trimmed  and 
flattened,  marinated  in  savoury  herb  pickling,  drained, 
egged,  crumbed,  and  fried.  Served  with  tomato 
sauce. 

Poulet  frit  d  la  duchesse. 

Boned  chicken  cut  into  neat  pieces,  trimmed  and 
flattened,  steeped  in  lemon  juice,  flavoured  with  savoury 
herbs  and  onions,  drained,  egged,  crumbed,  and  fried, 
served  with  Duchesse  sauce,  prepared  with  veloute 
sauce,  cream,  and  minced  ham. 

Cotelettes  de  volaille  d  la  Montpensier. 

Chicken     fillets     chopped,    shaped     into     cutlets, 

seasoned,  egged,  crumbed,  and  fried,  served  with  tomato 

sauce. 

15 


236  PRACTICAL   GASTRONOMY 

Cdtelettes  de  volaille  a  VAllemande. 
Parbroiled  chicken  fillets,  immersed  in  AUemande 
sauce,  egged,  crumbed,  and  fried,  served  with  AUemande 
sauce. 

Quenelles  de  volaille  a  Vltalienrie. 
Chicken  forcemeat  dumplings,  or  quenelles,  with 
chopped  preserved  mushrooms,  steamed  in  the  oven. 
Served  with  a  rich  brown  gravy  sauce,  containing 
truffles,  mushrooms,  parsley,  and  cooked  ham,  all 
finely  chopped. 

Quenelles  de  volaille  a  la  supreme. 
Chicken  forcemeat  mixture  filled  in   small    fancy 
moulds,  with  salpicon  in  the   centre,  steamed  in  the 
oven,  served  with  supreme  sauce  and  garnished  with 
slices  of  black  truffles. 

Boudins  de  volaille  d  la  Soubise. 
Small  steamed   sausage -shaped  quenelles,  made  of 
chicken  forcemeat  and  served  with  onion  puree. 

Capilotade  de  salpicon  de  volaille  aux  truffes. 
Coarsely  minced  chicken,  ham,  tongue,  mushrooms, 
and  truffles,  stewed  in  white  sauce. 

Filets  de  volaille  a  la  supreme. 
Broiled  chicken  fillets  larded,  garnished  with  truffles, 
and  served  with  supreme  sauce. 

Filets  de  volaille  auxpointes  d'asperges. 
Braised  chicken  fillets  with  asparagus  points. 

Filets  de  volaille  aux  concomhres. 
Braised  chicken  fillets  with  cucumber  ragout. 


ENTEEES  :  VOLAILLE — POULTRY       237 

Supreme  de  volaille  a  la  royale. 
Stewed  chicken  fillets  dished  up  in    a    vegetable 
border,    garnished    with    fancy    slices   of   ox-tongue, 
truffles,  and    mac^doine  of    vegetables,    served    with 
supreme  sauce. 

Epigramme  de  volaille  d  la  MacSdoine. 
Parbraised  chicken  fillets  immersed  in  AUemande 
sauce,  egged,  crumbed,  and  broiled  in  butter,  garnished 
with  mac^doine  of  vegetables,  and  served  with  demi- 
glace  sauce. 


GIBIER— GAME 
A. 

DE  LA  VOLAILLE  SAUVAGE -WILD  POULTRY. 

Salmis  de  Becasses.     Stewed  snipes,  or  jugged  snipes. 

Bdcasses  a  la  minute. 
Broiled  snipes  with  sherry  wine  sauce. 

Bdcasses  braisdes  a  Vorange. 
Braised  snipes  with  orange  sauce. 

Becasses  farcies  a  la  Stockholm. 
Parboiled  snipes  stuffed  with  beef  and  pork  force- 
meat,  chopped    shallots,    mushrooms,   and    gherkins, 
braised  in    the   oven,  and  served  with   a   white  wine 
sauce. 


238  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

Capissantes  de  becasses  mix  truffes. 
Minced  snipes  mth  truffles,  mixed  with  game  sauce, 
filled  in  shells,  and  baked  in  the  oven. 

PdU  de  becasses  d  VAnglaise. 
Raised  pie  filled  with  roast  snipes  cut   in   joints, 
calf  s  liver  and  bacon  forcemeat,  and  ham  (when  baked 
take  off  the  cover  and  fill  up  with  truffle  sauce,  replace 
the  cover,  and  serve  hot). 

Becassines  au  gratin. 
Stewed  snipes  baked  in  the  gratin  style. 

Becassines  en  croustade. 
Fried   snipes   served  on    fried  bread   crusts,   with 
brown  sauce. 
Becfigues  en  salmis.        Stewed  or  jugged  fig-peckers. 

Cailles  a  la  jardinidre. 
Broiled   quails   with   finely   cut   young   vegetables, 
carrots,  turnips,  beans,  &c. 

Cailles  a  la  Perigueux.      Braised  quails  with  truffles. 

Cailles  en  polenta. 
Stewed  quails  with  polenta  prepared  in  the  Italian 
fashion.     (Polenta  is  Itahan  oatmeal.) 

Compote  de  cailles. 
Stewed  quails  garnished  with  cork-shaped  pieces  of 
boiled  and  broiled  bacon,  small  mushrooms,  and  braised 
button  onions. 

Cailles  a  la  Lucullus. 
Braised,  boned,  and  stuffed  quails,  with  mashed  game 
and  minced  truffles. 


ENTEEES  :     GIBIER — GAME  239 

Cailles  a  la  Mirepoix.  -; 

Braised  quails  previously  pickled  in  white    or  red 

wine  vinegar,  carrots,  savoury  herbs,  juniper  beries,  &c. 

Ponding  de  cailles  d  VAnglaise.    English  quail  pudding. 

Cailles  a  la  cendre.  -._ 

Dressed  quails  barded,  wrapped  in  oiled  paper, 
cooked  in  wood  embers,  the  same  way  as  potatoes; 
when  done  the  paper  is  removed,  the  birds  are  ranged 
on  a  dish  and  served  with  a  brown  gravy  sauce  reduced 
with  white  wine. 

Croustades  de  cailles  a  la  Champenoise. 
Braised  halves  of  quails  stufifed  with  game  force- 
meat, chopped  mushrooms,  and  liver,  dressed  on  fried 
bread  crusts,  glazed,  and  served  with  demi-glace  sauce. 

Canards  sauvages  aux  navets. 
Stewed    wild    ducks    with  braised  neatly    shaped 
turnips. 

Canards  sauvages  aux  olives. 
Stewed  wild  ducks  with  turned  French  olives. 

Salmis  de  canards  sauvages. 
Stewed  or  jugged  wild  ducks. 

Filets  de  canards  sauvages  aux  truffes. 
Fried  fillets  of   wild  duck    served    with   a  brown 
sauce  made  of  wild  duck  giblets,  with  sHced  mush- 
rooms, finely  minced  shallots,  and  truffles. 

Filets  de  canards  sauvages^  sauce  poivrade. 
Broiled  fillets  of  wild  duck  with  poivrade  sauce. 


240  PKACTICAL    GASTRONO^NIY 

Canards  sauvages  d  V Americaine. 
Braised  wild  ducks  stuffed  with  soaked  bread  well 
buttered   and   seasoned,   served  with   a    brown   sauce 
made  of  boiled  duck  giblets,  chopped  shallots,  and  port 
wine. 

Canards  sauvages  a  la  chasseur. 
Braised  wild  ducks  stuffed  with  minced  game  and 
chopped  mushrooms,  served  with  a  game  sauce  in  which 
some  black  currant  jelly  has  been  dissolved. 

Coq  de  bois  braise,  sauce  poivrade. 
Braised  heath  cock  with  poivrade  sauce. 

Coq  de  bruyere  ]jique  aux  quenelles  de  truffes. 
Braised  mountain  cock  larded,   served  with  small 
forcemeat  and  truffle  dumplings  (quenelles). 

Coq  de  bruyere  a  la  Polonaise. 
Stewed  mountain  cock  with  truffle  sauce. 

Coq  de  bruyere  a  la  Polonaise. 
Parbroiled  mountain  cock  steeped  in  game  marinade, 
braised  in  the  oven,  and  served  with  a  brown  game 
sauce  mixed  with  sour  cream. 

Faisan  a  la  Flamande. 
Braised  pheasants  served  with  small  stuffed  braised 
cabbages  and  fried  sausages. 

Compote  de  faisan  au  Madere. 
Stewed  pheasant  with  Madeira  wine  sauce. 

Salmis  de  faisan  aux  truffes. 
Stewed  or  jugged  pheasant  with  sliced  truffles. 


ENTREES  :     GIBIER  — GAME  241 

Filets  defaisan  a  la  Talleyrand. 
Larded  fillets  of  pheasant,  braised,  served  with  a 
stew  of  minced  pheasant  round  the  fillets  and  garnished 
with  slices  of  hard-boiled  eggs. 

Filets  de  faisan  a  la  Bichelieu. 
Braised   pheasant  fillets   larded  with  truffles  and 
bacon. 

Faisan  d  la  bonne  femme. 
Braised  pheasant,  with  small  pieces  of  ham,  sliced 
and  stewed  Spanish  onions,  served  with  a  brown  sauce 
mixed  with  Indian  chutney. 

Cotelettes  de  faisan  d  la  Bichelieu. 
Pheasant  forcemeat   shaped  into  cutlets,  poached  ; 
when  cold  egged,  crumbed,  and  fried  in  clarified  butter  ; 
served  with  a  brown  sauce  with  chopped  truffles. 

Salmis  de  faisan  d  la  BoMmienne. 
Stewed  pheasant  in  brown    sherry   sauce,  minced 
ham,  and    mushrooms,    garnished    with    fried   bread 
croutons  and  whole  mushrooms. 

Faisan  aux  choux. 
Braised  pheasant  with  stewed  cabbages,  garnished 
with  fried  slices  of  bacon,  small  carrots,  and  sausages. 

Salmis  de  gelinottes.  Stewed  or  jugged  hazel  hens. 

Filets  de  gelinottes  au  champag7ie. 
Broiled  fillets  of  hazel  hens  with  champagne  sauce. 

Grives  braisees  en  caisses. 
Braised  fieldfares  served  in  small  paper  cases. 

Pdti  chaud  de  grives.    Braised  fieldfare  pie  served  hot. 


242  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

Grives  bar  dees  a  la  chasseur. 
Roast    fieldfares,    barded,   served   with   mushroom 
sauce,   garnished   with   minced  game   and  fried   sau- 
sages. 

Grimpereaux  d  la  Perigiceux. 
Braised  woodpeckers  with  truffle  sauce. 

Macreuses  braisees  aux  champignons. 
Braised  sea  ducks  with  mushrooms. 

Mauviettes /arcies  aux  trujfes. 
Braised   larks  stuffed  with  forcemeat   and  truffles, 
served  with  truffle  sauce. 

Mauviettes  au  gratin.    Ijarks  baked  in  the  gratin  style. 

Mauviettes  braisees  au  lard. 
Braised  larks  with  fried  bacon. 

Pdte  chaud  de  mauviettes. 
Raised  pie  of  larks,  served  hot. 

Mauviettes  a  la  Conti.  Braised  larks  with  truffles. 

Ortolans  a  la  Provenqale. 
Braised  ortolans  with  stewed  onions. 

Ortolans  a  la  P6rigord.    Braised  ortolans  with  truffles. 

Ortolans  a  la  Polonaise. 
Stewed  ortolans,  with  sourcrout,  peas,  dumplings, 
and  small  smoked  sausages. 

Outarde  en  salmis.  Stewed  oustard. 

Perdreaux  aux  choux. 
Braised  partridges  with  stewed  spring  cabbages. 


ENTREES  :     GIBIER —  GAME  243 

Perdreaux  a  la  Pompadour, 
Stuffed  partridges  larded  and  braised,  served  with 
goose  liver  and  truffle  stew. 

Perdreaux  farcis  aux  champignons. 
Stuffed  partridges  braised,  served   with  mushroom 
stew. 

Salmis  de  perdreaux  aux  truffes. 
Stewed  or  jugged  partridges  with  truffles. 

Salmis  de  perdreaux  a  la  chasseur. 
Stewed  partridges  with  chopped  mushrooms,  claret 
sauce,  chopped  rind  of  lemon,  garnished  with  fleurons 
or  sippets. 

Perdreaux  a  la  Beauharnais. 
Braised  partridges,  garnished  with  stewed  asparagus 
points,  fresh  button  mushrooms,  and  artichoke  bottoms, 
served  with  truffle  sauce. 

Filets  de  perdreaux  a  la  princesse. 
Breasts  of  partridges,  skinned,  larded  with  bacon 
and  truffles,  braised,   and  served  with   Madeira    wine 
sauce. 

Filets  de  perdreaux  a  la  marechal. 
Braised  breasts  of  partridges,  with  truffles,  mush- 
rooms, and  fried  potato  dumplings. 

Chartreuse  de  perdreaux. 
Stewed  partridges,    with    braised  spring    cabbages 
and  young  carrots,  dressed  in  a  border  of  macedoine. 

Hachis  de  perdreaux  au  Madere. 
Hashed  partridges  with  Madeira  wine  sauce. 


244  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

Pains  de  jperdreaux  a  la  DauphiTie. 
Steamed  dumplings  of  partridge  forcemeat,  truffles, 
and  mushrooms,  served  with  asparagus  points,  button 
mushrooms,  and  Madeira  sauce. 

Salmis  de  perdreaux  blancs  aux  olives. 
Stewed  ptarmigan  with  ohves. 

Croustades  de  gibier  a  la  Gamhetta, 
Game    stew   with  truffles,  dressed  on   fried   bread 
croutons,  garnished  with  small  stuffed  tomatoes. 

Pluviers  a  la  Perigueux.     Braised  plovers  with  truffles. 

Pluviers  sautes  au  champagne. 
Stewed  plovers  with  champagne  sauce. 

Cotelettes  de  pluviers  en  caisses. 
Boned  plovers,  shaped  into  cutlets,  egged,  crumbed, 
and  braised,  served  in  small  paper  cases,  with  chasseur 
sauce. 

Sarcelles  en  salmis.  Stewed  teals. 

Sarcelles  bar  dees  a  la  Westphalie, 
Braised  teals  barded,  served  with  sHces  of  broiled 
Westphalian  ham  and  truffles. 

Tetras  d'Amerique  a  la  chasseur, 
American    goose    stewed  in  brown  Madeira  wine 
sauce  with  chopped  mushrooms  and  shallots. 


ENTREES  :     GIBIER — GAME  245 

B. 

GIBIER  QUADRUPtDE-FOUR-FOOTED  GAME. 

Filet  de  cerf,  sauce  poivrade. 
Braised  fillet  of  deer  with  pepper  sauce  mixed  with 
red  currant  jelly. 

BagoM  de  cerf  marine. 
Pickled  deer,  stewed  or  jugged. 

Filet  de  cerf  pique  a,  la  diable. 
Larded  deer  fillet  braised,   served    with    a  sharp 
pepper  sauce  (sauce  a  la  diable). 

BagoM  de  chevreuil  a  la  hourgeoise. 
Stewed  venison,  with  braised  button  onions. 

Cotelettes  de  chevreuil  a  la  Turqtie. 
Venison  cutlets,  egged,  crumbed,  and  fried,  served 
with  tomato  puree  and  fried  parsley. 

Escalopes  de  chevreuil  a  la  chasseur. 
Scallops  of  venison,  prepared  with  a  thick  chasseur 
sauce,  mixed  with  red  currant  jelly. 

Grenadin  de  chevreuil  aux  truffes. 
Small  fillets  of  venison. 

Tournedos  de  chevreuil  a  la  Milanaise. 
Small  venison  steaks,  broiled,  served  with  stewed 
macaroni  and  tomato  sauce. 


246  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

Noix  de  chevreuil  a  la  geUe  de  groseille. 
Braised  kernel  of  venison  Tvith   red   currant  jelly 

sauce. 

Fricot  de  chevreuil  d  1%  Piemontaise. 

Jugged  venison  with  small  rice  timbales  and  tomato 
sauce. 

Chevreuil  hraisi,  d  la  Saint  Hubert. 
Braised  pickled  venison,  larded,  done  in  brown  sauce 
with  claret  and  cinnamon  flavouring,  finished  in  the 
oven,  served  with  a  garniture  of  French  prunes  which 
have  been  stewed  with  the  meat. 

Cuissot  de  chevretdl,  sauce  piquante. 
Part  of  the  leg  of  venison  braised,   served   with 
piquante  sauce. 

Longe  de  chevreuil  d  la  puree  de  tomate. 
Braised  loin  of  venison  with  tomato  puree. 

Salmis  de  chevreuil  d  la  sultane. 
Pickled  venison,  jugged,  done  in  a  brown  sauce, 
reduced  with  port  wine,  with  pickled  sultana  raisins. 
Filet  de  venaison  atcx  olives. 
Venison  steaks,  fried  with  stoned  olives  and  brown 
sauce. 

Cuissot  de  venaison  d  la  Bichemond. 
Roast  leg  of  venison  larded,  served  with  small  fried 
sweet  potatoes  and  red  currant  jelly. 

Jamhon  d'ours  braise^  au  vin  de  Malaga, 
Braised  bear's    ham,  with  Malaga  or  port    wine 

sauce. 

Fricot  d'ours  d  la  chasseicr. 
Jugged  bear  with  chasseur  sauce. 


ENTREES  :     GIBIER GAME  247 

Gibelotte  de  lapin  d  la  Bourguignonne. 
Stewed  rabbits,  done  in  brown  sauce  with  claret  and 
small  braised  onions. 

Lapereaux  a  la  minute. 
Wild  rabbits  cut  into  neat  joints,  fried  in  butter,  and 
stewed  in  Madeira  wine  sauce. 

Lapereaux  d  la  poulette. 
Wild  rabbits  cut  into  neat  joints,  fried  in  butter, 
stewed  in  white  sauce,   with    sliced    mushrooms   and 
chopped  parsley. 

Lapereaux  frits  d  la  Tartare. 
Wild  rabbits  boned,  pickled  in  a  marinade,  drained, 
cut  into  neat  joints,  egged,  crumbed,  and  fried  in  clari- 
fied butter,  served  with  Tartare  sauce. 

Lapereaux  d  VIndienne. 
Curried  rabbit  with  boiled  rice. 

Croquettes  de  lapereaux  d  la  Maintenon. 
Minced  cooked  rabbit,  prepared  into  salpicon  with 
thick  bechamel  sauce,   shaped  into  croquettes,  egged, 
crumbed,  and  fried,  served  with  brown  sauce  reduced 
with  sherry  wine. 

Cdtelettes  de  levrauts  aiix  truffes. 
Fried  leveret  cutlets  with  truffles. 

Levraut  farci  d  V Americaine. 
Stuffed  leveret,  braised,  served  with  demi-glace  and 
tomato  sauce. 

Levraut  frit  d  VOrly. 
Boned  leveret,  cut  into  small  pieces,  egged,  crumbed, 
and  fried,  served  with  tomato  sauce. 


248  PRACTICAL   GASTRONOMY 

Civet  de  lievre.  Jugged  hare. 

Escalopes  de  lievre  marinees. 
Pickled  collops  of  hare,  braised. 

Loiige  de  lievre  d  la  Soubise. 
Braised  loin  of  hare,  with  onion  puree. 

Grenadins  de  lievres. 
Small  fillets  of  hare  larded  and  braised. 

Filets  de  lievres  a  VAllemande. 
Fillets  of  hare  braised  in  white  wine  sauce. 

Cotelettes  de  lievres  a  V Allemande. 
Loin  of  hare  cut  into  cutlets,  egged,  crumbed,  and 
fried  in  hot  butter,  garnished   with  hard-boiled  eggs 
and  pickled  gherkins,  served  with  a  white  wine  sauce. 

Florendines  de  lievre. 
Boned  hare  stuffed  with    game  forcemeat,   rolled, 
and  braised  gently  in  the  oven. 

Haricot  de  lievre. 
Hare  cut  into  neat  joints,  seasoned,  fried  in  butter, 
and  finished  in  brown  sauce. 

Civet  de  lievre  a  la  Finnoise. 
Pickled  hare  jugged,  finished  in  demi-glace  sauce, 
with  a  small  quantity  of  sour  cream. 

Filets  de  lievre  a  la  Sicilienne. 
Larded  fillets  of  hare,  braised  and  finished  in  reduced 
gravy   sauce,  flavoured  with   cinnamon    and    parsley, 
dressed  in  a  pyramidal  form,  and  glazed. 


ENTEEES  :     GIBIER — GAME  249 

Lievrefarci  a  la  fermiere. 
Trussed   hare,  flattened,   stuffed   with    pork  force- 
meat, braised,  dished  up,  and  served  with  a  brown  onion 
sauce,  mixed  with  finely  minced  ham   and    chopped 
parsley,  and  reduced  with  white  wine. 

PdU  de  lidvre  d  VAnglaise.     Hare  pie. 

Hare  cut  into  small  joints,  filled  in  a  pie  dish,  with 
forcemeat,  slices  of  bacon  and  liver,  covered  with  puff 
paste  crust,  and  baked  gently  in  the  oven. 

PdU  de  lievre  d  la  Frangaise, 
Raised  pie  crust,  filled  with  pieces  of   fried  hare, 
forcemeat,  bacon,  and  mushrooms,  baked  in  the  oven. 

Bdble  de  lievre  d  la  Saint-Denis. 
Stuffed  saddle  of  hare  braised  and  served  with  truffle 
sauce. 

Bdble  de  lievre  d  la  mode. 
Small  joints  of  hare  (fillets  larded),  seasoned  and 
drained,  fried  in  butter,  stewed  in  brown  sauce,  with 
small  squares  of  salt  pork,  served  with  the  sauce  well 
reduced  and  flavoured  with  chilly  vinegar. 
Lievre  en  gite. 
Potted  hare  meat,  prepared  in  a  tureen  with  sau- 
sage, forcemeat,  and  hare  fillets,  moistened  with  Ma- 
deira wine,  covered  with  slices  of  bacon,  baked  in  the 
oven,  and  served  cold  in  a  tureen. 

Cdtelettes  de  sanglier,  sauce  Maddre. 
Wild  boar  cutlets,  braised  with  Madeira  wine  sauce. 

Jamhon  de  sanglier  aux  jpetits  pois. 
Braised  wild  boar  ham  with  green  peas. 


250  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

Cuissot  de  sanglier  aux  cerises. 
Braised  loin  or  haunch  of  young  wild  boar,  flavoured 
with  red  wine,  powdered  sugar  and  cinnamon,  served 
with  a  brown  sauce,  mixed  with  stewed  cherries. 

Cotelettes  de  sanglier  d  la  Bohert. 
Fried  wild  boar  cutlets  with  Robert  sauce. 

Carre  de  sanglier  a  la  Biisse. 
Braised  neck  of  wild  boar  served  with  a  sweet  sauce 
(orange  sauce  with  picked  and  blanched  sultanas). 

Cotelettes  de  renne,  sance  poivrade. 
Eeindeer  cutlets  fried,  with  pepper  sauce. 


ROTIS— ROASTS 
Du  veau. — Veal. 


Carre  de  veau  rdti.  Eoast  neck  of  veal. 

Longe  de  veau  rdti.  Roast  loin  of  veal. 

Noix  de  veau  rdti.  Roast  kernel  or  cushion  of  veal. 

Epaule  de  veau  rotie.  Roast  shoulder  of  veal. 

Cuissot  de  veau  rdti.  Roast  knuckle  of  veal. 

Filet  de  veau  rdti.  Roast  fillet  or  loin  of  veal. 

Poitrine  de  veau  rdtie.  Eoast  breast  of  veal. 

Selle  de  veau  rdti.  Roast  saddle  of  veal. 
Fricandeau  de  veau  rdti.      Roast  cushion  of  veal  larded. 


ROTIS — ROASTS  251 

Du  boeuf. — Beef. 

Baron  de  hcRuf  roti.  Eoast  baron  of  beef. 

Filet  de  hceuf  roti.  Roast  fillet  of  beef. 

Cote  de  hceuf  rotie.  Eoast  ribs  of  beef. 

Aloyau  de  hoeuf  roti.  Eoast  sirloin  of  beef. 

De  I'agneau. — Lamb. 
E^aule  d'agneau  rotie.         Eoast  shoulder  of  lamb. 
Gigot  d'agneau  roti.  Eoast  leg  of  lamb. 

Longe  d'agneau  rotie.  Eoast  loin  of  lamb. 

Quartier  d'agneaii  roti. 

Eoast  hind  or  fore  quarter  of  lamb. 

Poitrine  d'agneau  rotie.        Eoast  breast  of  lamb. 

Selle  d'agneau  rotie.  Eoast  saddle  of  lamb. 

Du  mouton. — Mutton. 

Carre  de  mouton  roti.  Eoast  neck  of  mutton. 

Eioaule  de  mouton  rotie.       Eoast  shoulder  of  mutton. 

Filet  de  mouton  roti.  Eoast  loin  or  fillet  of  mutton. 
Gigot  de  mouton  roti.  Eoast  leg  of  mutton. 

Hanche  de  mouton  rotie.      Eoast  haunch  of  mutton. 
Poitrine  de  moutoji  rotie.     Eoast  breast  of  mutton. 
Selle  de  mouton  rotie.  Eoast  saddle  of  mutton. 

Du  pore. — Pork. 

Carre  de  pore  roti.  Eoast  neck  of  pork. 

Gigot  de  pore  roti.  Eoast  leg  of  pork. 

Longe  de  pore  rotie.  Eoast  loin  of  pork. 

Ecliine  de  pore  rotie.  Eoast  chine  of  pork. 

16 


252  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

De  la  volaille. — Poultry. 

Canard  roti.  Roast  ducks. 

Cam])ines  roties. 

Roast  young  cliickens  (fine  fat  pullets). 
Canetons  rotis.  Roast  ducklings. 

Chapon  roti.  Roast  capon. 

Dinde  rotie.  Roast  turkey-hen. 

Dindon  roti.  Roast  turkey-cock. 

Dindonneau  roti.  Roast  young  turkey. 

Oie  rotie,  sauce  aux  pommes. 

Roast  goose  and  apple  sauce. 
Oison  roti.  Roast  gosling. 

Pigeons  rotis.  Roast  pigeons. 

Pigeonneaux  rotis.  Roast  young  pigeons. 

Poidet  roti,  sauce  au  p)ain. 

Roast  chicken  and  bread  sauce. 
Poidette  rotie.  Roast  pullet  (young  hen.) 

Poularde  rotie.  Roast  fat  pullet. 

Du  gibier. — Game. 

(a)  Wild  Poultry. 
Alouettes  roties. 

Roast  larks  (wood  larks,  also  called  mauviettes). 
Bartavelle  rotie.  Roast  partridge  (red-legged). 

Becasse  commune  rotie. 

Roast  woodcock  (common  snipe). 
Becasseau  roti.  Roast  young  woodcock. 

Becassines  roties.  Roast  snipes. 


ROTIS — ROASTS  253 

Bec-figues  roties.  Roast  fig-peckers. 

C allies  a  la  hroche.  Roast  quails. 

GaJiards  sauvages  rotis.       Roast  wild  ducks. 
Canards  sauvages  a  la  broche. 

Wild  ducks  roasted  on  skewers. 
Coq  de  hois  roti.  Roast  heath-cock  (black  grouse). 

Coq  de  bruyere  roti. 

Roast  mountain  cock  (wood  grouse). 
Faisan  roti  d  la  broche.        Roast  pheasant. 
Gelinotte  des  hois  rotie.        Roast  hazel-hen. 
Grimpereau  roti.  Roast  woodpecker. 

Grives  roties  bar  dees. 

Roast  fieldfares  barded  (also  called  thrushes). 
Coq  de  bois  de  Norvege  roti.  Roast  Norwegian  grouse. 
Jeune  paon  roti.  Roast  young  peacock. 

Paon  roti.  Roast  peacock. 

Macreuse  rotie.  Roast  sea-duck. 

Mauviettes  roties  bardees.    Roast  larks  barded. 
Merles  rotis.  Roast  blackbirds  (water  ousels). 

Ortolans  rotis.  Roast  ortolans. 

Outarde  rotie.  Roast  oustard. 

Perdreaux  rotis. 

Roast  partridges  (young  partridges). 
Perdrix  roties. 

Roast  partridges  (red-legged  partridges).. 
Perdreau  blanc  roti.  Roast  ptarmigan. 

Perdreau  rouge  a  la  broche.  Roast  red-legged  grouse. 
Pigeons  sauvages  rotis.         Roast  wild  pigeons. 
Pintade  rotie.  Roast  guinea-fowl. 

Pluviers  rotis.  Roast  plovers. 


254  PKACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

Poule  de  neige  rotie. 

Eoast  white  grouse  (snow  grouse,  or  snow  hen). 
Poule  de  prairie  rotie.  Roast  prame  hen. 

Bamiers  rotis.  Eoast  wood  pigeons. 

Rouge-gorge  roti.  Roast  robin  (red-breasted  robin). 

Sarcelles  r  6  ties  bar  dees. 

Roast  teals  (water-fowl),  barded. 
Sarcelles  roties.  Roast  teals. 

Tetras  d'Amerique  roti.        Roast  American  grouse. 
Tourtereau  roti.  Roast  turtle  dove  (tourterelle). 

(b)  Four-footed  Game. 

Broquart  roti.  Roast  brocket. 

Cimier  de  cerf  roti.  Roast  saddle  of  deer. 

Cuissot  de  cerf  roti.  Roast  haunch  of  deer. 

Filet  de  cerf  roti.  Roast  fillet  of  deer. 

Filet  de  chamois  roti. 

Roast  fillet  of  chamois  (wild  goat). 
Gigot  de  chamois  roti.  Roast  leg  of  chamois. 

Chevrette  rotie.  Roast  fawn  (young  venison). 

Cimier  de  chevreuil  roti.      Roast  saddle  of  venison. 
Fpaule  de  chevreuil  rotie.    Roast  shoulder  of  venison. 
Longe  de  chevreuil  rotie.      Roast  loin  of  venison. 
Bdhle  de  chevreuil  roti.        Roast  saddle  of  venison. 
Gigot  de  chevreuil  roti.        Roast  leg  of  venison. 
Quartier  de  chevreuil  roti.  Roast  quarter  of  venison. 
Cidssot  de  chevreuil  roti.     Roast  haunch  of  venison. 
Gigot  de  daim  roti.  Roast  leg  of  deer  (fallow  deer). 

Belle  de  daim  rotie.  Roast  saddle  of  deer. 


ROTIS — ROASTS 


255 


Selle  d'elan  rotie. 
LUvre  roti. 
Marcassin  roti. 
Beins  de  sanglier  rotis. 
Gigot  de  sanglier  roti. 
Cuissot  de  sanglier  roti. 
Gigot  de  renne  roti. 
Filet  de  renne  roti. 
Selle  de  renne  rotie. 


Eoast  saddle  of  deer. 
Eoast  hare. 

Eoast  young  wild  boar. 
Eoast  loin  of  wild  boar. 
Eoast  leg  of  wild  boar. 
Eoast  haunch  of  wild  boar. 
Eoast  leg  of  reindeer. 
Eoast  fillet  of  reindeer. 
Eoast  saddle  of  reindeer. 


LEGUMES.— VEGETABLES 

Artichauts. — Artichokes. 

Articliauts  frais.  Fresh  globe  artichokes. 

Artichauts  a  Vltalienne. 
Stewed   artichokes  with   chopped  mushrooms,  and 
brown  sauce. 

Artichauts  frits.  Fried  artichokes. 

Artichauts  farcis.  Stuffed  artichokes. 

Artichauts  d  la  bechamel. 
Stewed  artichokes  with  white  sauce. 

Artichauts  a  la  harigoule.   (A  Spanish  dish.) 
Stewed  artichokes  with  savoury  herbs. 

Artichauts  au  gratin.  Baked  artichokes  gratin  style. 


256  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

Artichauts  cle  Jerusalem  a  la  bechamel. 
Boiled  Jerusalem  artichokes  with  bechamel  sauce. 

Artichauts  a  la  Lyonnaise. 
Stewed  artichokes  with  boiled  sliced  onions. 

Artichauts  a  la  vinaigrette. 
Boiled  artichokes  cold,  with  vinaigrette  sauce. 

Souffle  cV artichauts  a  la  Lyonnaise. 
Green  artichoke  puree,  mixed  with  chicken  souffle 
mixture,    centre    garnished    with    champignon  puree, 
cooked  in  artichoke  moulds,  served  hot  with  supreme 
sauce. 

Artichauts  sautes. 
Green  artichokes    quartered,    boiled,   dressed,    and 
broiled  in  butter  ;  served  hot,  ^^^dth  or  without  sauce. 

Artichauts  a  la  reine. 
Green  artichoke  puree  and  chicken  cream  mixture 
mingled  with  aspic   and  set  in   fancy  moulds,  served 
cold. 

Fonds  cVartichauts  a  V AmericaiJie, 
Artichoke  bottoms  stuffed  with  chicken  forcemeat, 
with  a  garnish  of  cooked  chicken,  truffle,  tongue,  etc.,  in 
centre,  served  hot  with  sauce,  or  cold  -^dth  aspic. 

Fonds  d'artichauts  a  la  demi-glace. 
Artichoke  bottoms  wdth  brown  sauce. 

Fonds  d' artichauts  a  VEspag7iole. 
Artichoke  bottoms  with  Espagnole  sauce. 


LEGUMES — VEGETABLES  257 

Fonds  d'artichauts  d  la  Bordelaise. 
Artichoke   bottoms  with  red  wine  sauce  and  beef 
marrow-fat. 

Fonds  d'artichauts  d  la  Provengale. 
Artichoke  bottoms  stuffed  with   onion   puree    and 
served  with  a  rich  brown  sauce. 

Fonds  d'artichauts  d  la  poivrade. 
Artichoke  bottoms  stewed  with  pepper  sauce, 

,  Asperges. — Asparagus. 

Asperges  en  branches  d  la  bechamel. 
Boiled  asparagus  with  bechamel  sauce, 

Asperges  en  branches  au  beurre  fondu. 
Boiled  asparagus  with  oiled  butter. 

Asperges  en  branches  d  la  Colbert. 
Boiled  asparagus  with  poached  eggs. 

Asperges  en  petits  pois. 

Green  asparagus  points,  cut  very  small  to  resemble 
peas,  and  boiled. 

Asperges  en  branches  d  la  Piemontaise, 
Stewed  asparagus  with  grated  parmesan  cheese  and 
white  sauce. 

Asperges  d  la  vinaigrette. 
Boiled  asparagus  with  vinaigrette  sauce. 

Asperges  d  la  Hollandaise. 
Boiled  asparagus  with  Hollandaise  sauce. 


258  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

Asi^erges  sautees  au  beurre. 
Boiled  asparagus  finished  in  butter. 

Asperges  d  la  Frihourg. 
Boiled  asparagus,  served  hot,  sprinkled  mth  grated 
Gruyere  cheese  and  sauced  with  hot  oiled  butter. 

Asperges  au  veloiite. 
Stewed  asparagus  in  veloute  sauce. 

Asperges  d  la  Nicoise. 
Boiled  asparagus  dished  up  cold  and  served  with  a 
sauce  made  of  sweet  oil,  hard-boiled  egg-yolks  passed 
through  a  sieve,  vinegar  and  seasoning. 

Asperges  d  la  Bernoise, 

Freshly   boiled  asparagus   dressed  with   layers   of 

grated  Gruyere  cheese  between,  top  covered  with  finely 

minced  onions  fried  in  butter,  besprinkled  with  cheese 

and  bread  crumbs,  baked  and  served  (hot)  on  same  dish. 

Pointes  d'asperges  a  VArgenteuil. 
Puree  of  green  asparagus  points  or  sprue,  mixed 
with  chicken  cream  farce  (cooked),  set  in  asparagus- 
shaped  mould  so  as  to  resemble  a  bundle  of  asparagus 
(white  part  chicken  forcemeat),  served  hot  with 
supreme  sauce,  or  cold  with  aspic  and  salad. 

Pointes  d'asperges  a  la  Sevillienne. 
Asparagus  puree,  prepared  from  heads,  served 
inside  a  shape  mounted  with  cooked  cold  asparagus^ 
well  masked  with  aspic.  This  dish  is  served  cold,  and 
is  garnished  with  a  salad  of  artichoke  bottoms  in  the 
centre. 


LEGUMES  —  VEGETABLES  259 

Betterave. — Beetroot. 

Better aves  au  naturel. 
Plain  boiled  beetroot. 

Better  aves  sautees  au  beurre. 
Clove-shaped  pieces    of   cooked  beetroot  tossed  in 
butter. 

Betteraves  a  la  Bordelaise. 
Thickly- sliced  cooked  beetroot  broiled  in  sweet  oil, 
flavoured  with  chopped  onion,  and  finished  in  a  red 
wine  sauce. 

Aubergines. — Egg-plants. 

Aubergines  a  la  Lyonnaise. 
Baked  aubergines  or   egg-plants,   with  fried  sliced 
onions. 

Aubergines  farcies  au  gratin. 
Stuffed  aubergines  baked  in  the  gratin  style. 

Gardens. — Cardoons. 

Cardons,  sauce  d  la  creme. 
Stewed  cardoons,  with  white  cream  sauce. 

Cardons  a  VEspagnole. 
Stewed  cardoons,  with  brown  sauce. 

Cardons  en  croiltons  a  la  velotite. 
Stewed   cardoons   dressed   on  bread  croutons  and 
served  with  veloute  sauce. 


260  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

Garottes. — Carrots. 

Garottes  a  la  bechaineL 
Boiled  carrots  with  white  sauce. 

Carottes  d  la  poidette. 
Boiled    carrots    with    white    sauce    and    chopped 
parsley. 
Carottes  aux  ijointes  cVasi^erges  et  an  saumon  fume. 
Stewed   young   carrots   with  asparagus  points  and 
slices  of  smoked  salmon. 

Carottes  a  VEspagnole. 
Parboiled  new  carrots  (pared  and   split  in  two  or 
four),  finished  in  white  broth,  Espagnole  sauce,  flavoured 
with  a  Httle    sugar,   pepper,    salt,  nutmeg,  and  fresh 
butter. 

Carottes  a  la  bourgeoise. 
Parboiled  new   carrots   (pared),   drained,    seasoned 
and    finished   in    stock    with    a    little    fresh    butter, 
thickened  with  flour  and  butter. 

Carottes  d  la  Lilloise. 
Pared   new  carrots   cut   into    thick    round    shces, 
cooked  in  a  little  water  with  fresh  butter  and  sugar  to 
season,   when   done    a    haison    of    egg-yolks,    butter, 
cream,  bechamel  sauce,  and  chopped  parsley  is  added. 

Carottes  d  la  maitre  dliotel. 
Parboiled  new  carrots  (pared  and  cut  in  quar- 
ters), drained,  seasoned,  cooked  in  white  stock, 
thickened  with  veloute  sauce,  fresh  butter,  a  little 
sugar  and  chopped  parsley,  served  with  fried  bread 
croutons. 


LEGUMES— VEGETABLES  261 

Celeri. — Celery. 

Celeri  a  Vltalienne. 
Parboiled    celery   heads,    drained,    seasoned,    and 
stewed  in  broth,  covered  with  a  layer  of  thin  slices  of 
bacon,  served  with  Italienne  sauce. 

Celeri  a  lafermiere. 
Prepared    celery    heads    parboiled    and     drained, 
seasoned,    stewed  in  stock  with  a  layer  of  lean  pork, 
served  with  brown  sauce,  alternating  each  celery  head 
with  a  slice  of  pork. 

Celeri  au  veloute. 
Stewed  celery  with  veloute  sauce,  well  worked  with 
fresh  butter. 

Celeri  a  la  Genevoise. 
Prepared  celery  heads,  parboiled,   drained,  seasoned 
with  pepper,  salt,   and  grated   nutmeg,    stewed  in   a 
sautoir  pan,  with  layers  of  fat  bacon  and  stock ;  when 
done,  drained,  ranged  in   a  baking   dish,  sauced  over 
with  veloute  sauce,  sprinkled  with  bread  crumbs  and 
parmesan  cheese,  and  baked  in  the  oven  until  brown. 
Celeri  frit  a  la  tomate. 
Boiled   celery  (cut  in  four-inch   lengths),  drained, 
seasoned,  dipped  in  frying  batter,  fried  in  hot  fat,  and 
served  with  tomato  sauce. 

Puree  de  celeri  aux  croiUons. 
Mashed  celery,  passed  through  a  sieve,  seasoned 
with  salt,  pepper,  grated  nutmeg  and  a  little  sugar, 
mixed  with  a  liaison  of  well-reduced  bechamel  sauce 
and  fresh  butter,  and  served  with  triangular  slices  of 
fried  bread  croutons). 


262  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

Celeri  d  la  imysanne. 
Boiled    celery    heads    (cut    in  five-inch    lengths), 
finshed  in  brown  sauce,  well  buttered  and  seasoned. 

Celeri  a  la  Villeroi. 
Boiled  celery  heads  (cut  in  halves),  drained,  dipped 
in  veloute   sauce   well   reduced,  set  to  cool,  rolled  in 
bread  crumbs,  egged,  crumbed  again,  and  fried  in  hot 
fat. 

Celeri  au  jus.  Stewed  celery  with  gravy  sauce. 

Celeri  d  VEspagnole.     Stewed  celery  with  brown  sauce- 

Celeri  d  la  bechamel.     Stewed  celery  with  white  sauce. 

Cepes  farcies  an  jus. 
Stuffed  cepes  (a  kind  of  mushroom)  with  gravy. 

Cejjes  d  la  Provencale. 
Stewed  cepes  with  onion  mash  (puree). 

Cei^es  d  la  Bordclaise. 
Stewed  cepes,  served  with  gravy,  mixed  with  lemon 
juice  and  chopped  parsley. 

Champignons. — Mushrooms. 
Champignons  far cis.  Stuffed  mushrooms. 

Chamjngnons  d  la  Bordelaise. 
Broiled  mushrooms,  seasoned  with  Cayenne  pepper, 
served  with  gravy  sauce,  mixed  with  chopped   shallots 
previously  fried  in  butter,  and  chopped  parsley. 


LEGU:\IES — VEGETABLES  263 

Champignons  a  la  casse-tout. 
Mushrooms  placed  on  buttered  toast  and  baked  in 
the  oven. 

Chamjyignons  aux  fines  herbes. 
Stewed  mushrooms  with  savoury  herb  sauce. 

Champignons  au  heurre. 
Broiled  button  mushrooms  in  fresh  butter,  served 
on  toast. 

Champignons  au  gratin. 
Mushrooms  seasoned  with  grated  ham,  chopped 
parsley,  herbs,  shallots,  &c.,  dished  on  a  well-buttered 
gratin  dish,  sauced  with  a  well-buttered  Madere  sauce, 
sprinkled  with  bread  crumbs,  and  baked  in  the  usual 
way. 

Charnpiynons  a  la  Piemontaise. 
Broiled  fresh  mushrooms,  cut  in  slices,  finished  in 
a   sauce  of  melted  butter,  lemon  juice,  and  chopped 
parsley. 

Champignons  a  la  Provengale. 
Fresh  button  mushrooms  fried  in  oil,  finished  in  a 
rich  gravy  sauce  with  chopped  shallots,  bruised  garlic, 
chopped  parsley,  and  lemon  juice,  seasoned  with  Cayenne 
pepper,  and  served  with  croutons. 

Champignons  farcis  a  la  Napolitaine. 
Fresh  cup  mushrooms  stuffed  ynth.  the  stalks  finely 
chopped,  garlic,  shallots,  and  parsley,  all  chopped  fine, 
grated  parmesan  cheese,  and  bread  crumbs,  ranged  on  a 
baking  sheet,  sprinkled  with  fresh  crumbs  and  cheese 
and  a  few  drops  of  sweet  oil,  baked  in  the  oven,  and 
served  with  demi-glace  sauce  well  seasoned. 


264  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

Chicoree. — Chicory  or  Endive. 

Chicoree  a  la  clemi-glace. 
Stewed  endive  with  brown  sauce. 

Chicoree  d  la  creme. 
Stewed  endive  with  cream  sauce. 

Choux. — Cabbages. 

Ckou  hlanc  farci. 
Braised  stuffed  white  cabbage. 

Choux-brocolis.  Broccoli  sprouts. 

Choux  a  la  Lilloise. 
Small  pieces  of  cabbage  broiled  in  butter,  seasoned 
with  chopped  onions,  parsley,  nutmeg,  &c. 

Choux  blancs  d  Vltalienne. 
Stewed  white  cabbage  served  with  braised  chestnuts 
and  small  fried  sausages. 

Choucroute  aufour.  Sourcrout  stewed  in  the  oven» 

Choucroute  au  champagne. 
Stewed  sourcrout  in  champagne. 

Choucroute  d  V Alsacienne. 
Stewed   sourcrout  with  boiled  bacon    and   smoked 
sausages. 

Choux  de  Bruxelles  sautes. 

Boiled  Brussels  sprouts  broiled  in  fresh  butter. 

Choux  de  Bruxelles  d  la  maitre  d' hotel. 
Boiled  Brussels  sprouts  with  maitre  d 'hotel  butter 
or  sauce. 


LEGUMES VEGETABLES  265 

Chou  de  Milan  braise.         Braised  Milan  cabbage. 

Chou  de  mer  a  la  bechamel  {Chou  marin  d' Angleterre). 
Sea-kale  with  white  sauce. 

Chou  de  mer  a  la  Hollandaise. 
Sea-kale  with  Hollandaise  sauce. 

Choux  frises  or  chou  crejnc.  Scotch  kale. 

Chaux  de  Savoie.  Savoy  cabbage. 

Chou-flcur  a  VAnglaise. 
Boiled  cauliflower  with  melted  butter  sauce. 

Chou-fleur  au  heurre  fondu. 
Cauliflower  with  oiled  butter. 

Chou-fleur  au  gratin.  Cauliflower  gratin  style. 

Chou-fleur  a  la  Piemontaise. 
Cauliflower  with  white  sauce,   mixed  with  grated 
parmesan  cheese. 

Chou-fleur  d  la  Francaisc. 
Cauliflower  trimmed,  cut  into  quarters,  boiled  and 
stewed  in  white  sauce,  seasoned  with  salt,  pepper,  and 
nutmeg. 

Chou  d  la  Hollandaise. 
Cauliflower  with  Hollandaise  sauce. 

Chou-fleur  farci.  Stuffed  and  braised  cauliflower. 

Chou  po7nme  braise. 
Stewed  Welsh  cabbage  (white-headed  cabbage). 

Chou-navet — Chou-rave.      Turnip  cabbage. 

Chou  jprintanier.  Spring  cabbage. 


266  PEACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

Choii  rouge  etoujfe.  Stewed  red  cabbage. 

Chou  rouge  a  la  Francaise. 
Stewed  red  cabbage  with  braised  chestnuts. 

Bejet  de  chou.  Cabbage  sprouts. 

Chou  sauvage.  Curled  cabbage. 

Choux-verts.  Greens. 

Celeriac. — Celery  knobs. 

CUeriac  a  la  hechamel. 
Stewed  celeriac  with  white  sauce. 

Celeriac  d  la  Villeroi. 
Boiled  celery  knobs  cut  in  thick  slices,  immersed 
in  thick  veloute  sauce,  set  to  cool,  rolled  in  fresh  bread 
crumbs,  dipped  in  egg,  crumbed  again,  fried  in  hot  fat, 
and  served  with  fried  parsley. 

-    Celeriac  d  VEspagnole, 
Stewed  celeriac  with  brown  sauce. 

Citronille /arc /e.  Stuffed  pumpkin. 

Concombres. — Cucumbers. 

Concombres  d  la  maitre  d' hotel. 
Broiled  cucumbers  with  maitre  d'hotel  sauce. 

Concomhres  farcis.  Braised  stuffed  cucumbers. 

Concombres  d  la  tomate. 
Stewed  cucumbers  with  tomato  sauce. 


LEGUMES — VEGETABLES  267 

'  Concomhres  a  la  crdme. 

Stewed  cucumbers  with  cream  sauce. 

Concomhres  sautes  aux  fines  herbes. 
Sliced    cucumbers    broiled,    flavoured    with    finely 
chopped  green  herbs. 

Puree  de  concomhres. 
Mashed  cucumbers  passed  through  a  sieve,  mixed 
with  a  little  bechamel  sauce,  seasoned  with  pepper,  salt, 
and  a  little  sugar. 

Concomhres  a  VEspagnole. 
Parboiled  cucumbers  (cut  in  quarters,  drained,  fried 
in  butter,  and  served  with  Espagnole  sauce. 

Concomhres  a  Vltalienne. 
Cucumbers  stuffed  with  forcemeat,  chopped  mush- 
rooms, and  savoury  herbs,  braised,  cut  crosswise  in 
inch-thick  pieces,  ranged  in  layers  on  a  dish,  sprinkled 
with  parmesan  cheese,  and  sauced  over  with  hot  veloute 
sauce. 

Epinards. — Spinach. 
Epinaj'ds  au  jus.  Spinach  with  gravy. 

Epinards  a  la  Franqaise. 
Spinach  prepared  with  cream  sauce. 

Epinards  a  la  hechamel. 
Spinach  prepared  with  white  sauce. 

Epinards  d  la  Colhert.         Spinach  with  poached  eggs. 

Boulade  d'epinards.  Pancakes  filled  with  spinach. 

17 


268  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

F^ves  de  marais. — Broad  beans  (Windsor  beans). 

Feves  de  marais  d  la  cr^me. 
Broad  beans  with  white  cream  sauce. 

Feves  de  marais  aux  fines  herbes. 
Broad  beans  with  parsley  sauce. 

Fdves  de  marais  au  lard. 
Broad  beans  with  broiled  bacon. 

Feves  de  marais  a  la  poulette. 

Stewed  broad  beans  with  white  sauce  and  chopped 
parsley. 

F^ves  de  haricot  a  la  Provengale. 
Kidney  beans  stewed,  with  fried  sliced  onions. 

Haricots  blancs. — White  haricot  beans. 

Haricots  blancs  a  la  Bretonne. 
Stewed  white  haricot  beans,  flavoured  with  finely 
chopped  onions  and  parsley. 

Haricots  blatics  a  la  b&chamel. 
Stewed  white  haricot  beans  in  white  sauce. 

Haricots  blancs  a  la  Lyonnaise. 
Stewed  white  haricot  beans  with  sliced  fried  onions. 

Haricots  verts. — French  beans. 

Haricots  verts  a  la  Franqaise. 
Boiled  French  beans  broiled  in  butter. 


LEGUMES VEGETABLES  269 

Haricots  verts  sautes  aic  heurre. 
French  beans  boiled,  drained,  seasoned,  and  broiled 
in  butter. 

Haricots  verts  sautds  aux  fines  herbes. 
French  beans  boiled,  drained,  seasoned,  and  broiled 
in  butter,  with  chopped  parsley. 

Haricots  verts  a  la  Lyonnaise, 
Broiled  French  beans  with  fried  onions,  thinly  sliced. 

Jets  de  houblons  a  la  Polonaise. 
Stewed  hop  sprigs  with  fried  bread  crumbs. 

Laitues. — Lettuces. 
Laitties  hrais&es.  Braised  cabbage  lettuce. 

Laitues  farcies  hraisees. 
Braised  stuffed  cabbage  lettuces. 

Puree  de  Lentilles.  Mashed  lentils. 

Lentilles  en  fricassee. 
Broiled  lentils  in  white  sauce. 

Navets. — Turnips. 

Navets  braises.  Braised  turnips. 

Purie  de  navets.  Mashed  turnips. 

Navets  d  la  veloute.        Stewed  turnips  in  white  sauce. 

Navets  a  la  bourgeoise. 
Stewed  turnips  in  parsley  sauce. 

Macedoine  de  legumes 
Mixed  vegetables  cut  into  small  pieces. 


270  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

MaMoine  a  la  lorintanitrc. 
Mixed  spring  vegetables  stewed. 

Macedoine  de  legumes  a  la  bechamel. 
Mixed  vegetable  stew  in  white  sauce. 

Petits  i^ois  verts  a  la  Franqaise. 
Green  peas   boiled   and    finished    in    butter,   with 
fried  minced  ham  and  chopped  parsley. 

Petits  i:>ois  sautes  au  lard  fzime. 
Green  peas  boiled  and  sauteed  with  small  pieces  of 

fried  bacon. 

Petits  pois  au  jamhon  grilU. 
Green  peas  with  broiled  ham. 

Pommes  de  terre. — Potatoes. 

Note, — In  compiling  menus  it  is  not  necessary  to  spell 
"Pommes  de  terre"  in  full.  "Pommes"  is  sufficient,  if 
the  name  of  the  dish  follows,  i.e.  Pommes  a  la  Viennoise, 
Pommes  pailles^  Pommes  souffiees,  Pommes  chateau,  Pommes 
Parisiennes,  etc. 

Pommes  de  terre  r 6  ties  au  four. 

Baked  potatoes  (done  in  the  oven). 

Pommes  de  terre  de  poisson. 

Neatly  shaped  potatoes  boiled  in  salt  water,  drained, 
dished  up,  and  served  with  melted  butter  poured  over 

them. 

Pommes  sautees. 

Cold  boiled  potatoes  cut  into  slices  and  broiled  with 
a  little  butter. 

Pommes  de  terre  au  naturel.    Plain  boiled  potatoes. 
Pommes  de  terre  houillies.        Boiled  potatoes. 
Pommes  de  terre  souffldes. 

Souffle  potatoes,  or  potato  puffs. 


LEGUMES VEGETABLES  271 

Fommes  de  ter re  f rites.        Fried  potatoes. 

Pommes  de  terre  nouvelles.    New  potatoes. 

Pommes  de  terre  cuites  soils  la  cendre. 
Potatoes  baked  in  hot  ashes  (in  their  jackets). 

Pomjnes  de  terre  cuites  au  bouillon. 
Potatoes  boiled  in  beef  broth. 

Pommes  de  terre  en  robe  de  chambre. 
Potatoes  boiled  in  their  jackets. 

Pommes  sautees  a  la  Lyonnaise. 
Potatoes  broiled  same  as  saute  potatoes,  with  finely 
chopped  fried  onions. 

Bordure  de  puree  de  pommes. 
Border  of  mashed  potatoes. 

Pomvies  de  terre  a  la  Brabanconne. 

Mashed  potatoes  mixed  with  finely  chopped 
blanched  shallots,  parsley,  and  grated  cheese,  seasoned 
with  pepper,  salt,  and  nutmeg,  dressed  on  a  hollow 
dish,  surface  sprinkled  with  bread  crumbs,  grated 
cheese,  and  a  few  bits  of  butter,  baked  till  brown  in  the 
oven. 

Pommes  de  terre  d  la  Hollandaise. 

Plain  boiled  potatoes,  dished  up,  seasoned,  sauced 
over  with  oiled  butter  and  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice. 

Pommes  de  terre  a  la  villageoise. 
Finely  chopped  cold  potatoes  seasoned,  stewed  in  a 
little  cream  and  fresh  butter. 

Pommes  de  terre  au  parmesan. 
Stewed  potatoes  with  grated  parmesan  cheese. 


272  PRACTICAL   GASTRONOMY 

Pommes  de  terre  a  la  Navarraise. 
Peeled  potatoes  cut  in  half-inch  squares,  fried  in 
sweet  oil,  drained,  sprinkled  with  salt,  and  served  on 
a  folded  napkin. 

Pommes  de  terre  a  la  duchesse. 
Mashed  potatoes  seasoned,  shaped  into  fingers,  or 
other  shapes,  placed  on  a  well-buttered  bakmg  sheet, 
brushed  over    with   yolk  of  eggs,   and   baked   in   the 
oven. 

Pommes  de  terre  en  puree  d  la  Jackson. 
Mashed  potatoes   garnished   with   filleted  Gorgona 
anchovies. 

Pommes  de  terre  a  la  Dauj^hine. 
Prepared   potato   puree    as    for   croquettes,   mixed 
with  pate  k  choux,  shaped  into  small  balls  the  size  of 
walnuts,  and  fried  in  clarified  butter. 

Croquettes  de  pommes  de  terre. 
Potato  puree,  seasoned,  mixed   with   yolk  of    &gg, 
shaped  into  balls,  or  any  other  shapes,  egged,  crumbed, 
and  fried  in  clarified  butter. 

Beignets  de  pommes  de  terre. 
Fried  potatoes,  dumplings,  or  fritters. 

Puree  de  pommes  de  terre  a  la  creme. 
Mashed  potatoes  with  cream. 

Pommes  de  terre  a  la  Parisienne. 
Small  ball-shaped  potatoes,  scooped  out  when  peeled, 
blanched,  and  fried  in  clarified  butter. 

Pomvies  de  terre  a  la  Strasbourg. 
Shced  stewed  potatoes  in  white  sauce,  dished  up, 
and  baked  in  the  oven. 


LEGUMES — VEGETABLES  273 

Pommes  de  terre  att  jtis.       Stewed  potatoes  in  gravy. 

Pommes  de  terre  d  la  Chateauhriand. 
Peeled  potatoes  cut  in  parts,  pared  to  the  size  and 
shape  of  olives,  parboiled  in  salt  water,  drained,  fried 
in  butter,  dished  up  and  served  with  a  few  bits  of  parsley- 
butter  on  the  top. 

Pommes  de  terre  d  la  Bretonne. 
Cold  boiled  potatoes,  peeled,  cut  m  squares,  broiled 
in  butter,  mixed  with  finely  chopped  fried  onions,  chopped 
parsley,  and  a  little  brown  sauce. 

Pomme  de  terre  d  la  Worlitz. 
Potato  puree  prepared  as  for  croquets,  shaped  into 
squares,  egged,  crumbed  in  grated  parmesan  cheese,  on 
one  side  only,  adding  a  small  piece  of  lobster  butter  on 
centre  of  each,  and  baked  in  a  very  hot  oven. 
Pommes  de  terre  d  la  or  erne. 
Stewed  potatoes  in  white  cream  sauce. 
Pommes  de  terre  d  la  Turque. 
Potato  puree  prepared  as  for  croquets,  made  into 
small  half-moon  shapes  filled  with  anchovy  paste,  egged, 
crumbed,  and  baked  in  clarified  butter. 

Cotelettes  de  joommes  de  terre. 
Potato  puree  as  above  shaped  into  cutlet  shapes, 
egged,  crumbed,  and  fried  in  clarified  butter. 
Pommes  de  terre  au  gratin. 
Potato  puree  prepared  with  cream,  seasoned,  dressed 
on  a  gratin  dish  well  buttered,   covered  with   bread 
crumbs  and  grated  parmesan  cheese   a  few  pieces  of 
fresh  butter,  and  baked  in  the  oven. 


274  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

Pommes  de  terre  chdteau. 
Oval  shapes  of  potatoes,  blanched,  drained,  and  fried 
a  light  colour  in  clarified  butter. 

Pommes  pailles.  Straw  potatoes. 

Very  thin   strips   of   potatoes,   shape   and   size  of 
matches,  fried  a  light  brown  colour  in  clarified  butter. 

Pommes  de  terre  d  la  Bignon. 
Boiled  peeled  potatoes,  inside  scooped  out,  filled  with 
well-  seasoned  sausage  meat,  opening  closed  with  a  piece 
of  potato,  and  baked  in  clarified  butter. 

Poynmes  de  terre  d  la  Beitz. 
Peeled  potatoes  cut  into  small  thin  strips  and  fried 
crisp  in  butter. 

Pommes  coupeauts.  Potato  ribbons. 

Potatoes  peeled,  cut  similar  to  sugar  loaves  ;  peeled 
thickly,  in  order  that  the  peeling  of  each  potato  may 
remain  whole  ;  and  fried  in  very  hot  dripping. 

Pommes  de  terre  d  la  Madeleine. 
Small  even-shaped  kidney  potatoes,  washed,  peeled, 
placed  in  a  well-buttered  saute  pan,  seasoned,  and  baked 
in  the  oven. 

Pommes  de  terre  a  la  bdchaviel. 
Stewed  potatoes  in  white  sauce. 

Pommes  de  terre  rissolees. 
Very  small  shapes  of  balls,  cut  out  of  potatoes,  par- 
boiled, drained,  and  broiled  in  hot  butter  until  done. 


LEGUMES — VEGETABLES  275 

Pommes  de  terre  d  la  maitre  dliotel. 
Stewed  sliced  potatoes  in  white  sauce,  with  chopped 

parsley. 

Pommes  de  terre  persillees. 
Peeled  potatoes  cut  into  shapes  of  walnuts,  boiled  in 
salt  water,  drained,  broiled  in  fresh   butter,  sprinkled 
with  chopped  parsley. 

Pommes  de  terre  a  la  Garfield. 
Potatoes  cut  into  small  discs,  parboiled,  and  finished 
in  clarified  butter. 

Pommes  de  terre  a  la  comtesse. 
Thin  slices  of  raw  potatoes  ranged  neatly  in  a  well- 
buttered  timbale   mould,  seasoned  with  veloute  sauce, 
and  baked  in  a  hot  oven. 

Pommes  de  terre  a  la  Colbert. 
Cold  boiled  potatoes  cut  into  squares,  seasoned  with 
pepper  and  salt,  stewed  in  gravy  sauce,  finished  with  a 
little  fresh  butter  and  chopped  parsley. 

Croquettes  de  pommes  de  terre  a  la  Bouennaise. 
Mashed  potatoes,  prepared  as  for  croquets,  made  in 
size  and  shape  as  olives,  dipped  in  frying  batter,  fried  in 
hot  fat,  drained,  sprinkled  with  salt,  and  served  on  a 
folded  napkin. 

Pommes  de  terre  mdchees. 
Potatoes  boiled  in  beef  broth,  made  into   a  pur^e, 
seasoned  with  white  pepper,  a  little  grated  nutmeg,  when 
served  sprinkled  over  with  finely  chopped  parsley. 
Pommes  de  terre  a  la  hourgeoise. 
Thickly  sliced  potatoes  stewed  in  a  rich  brown  sauce, 
flavoured  with  onions. 


276  PRACTICAL   GASTRONOMY 

Pommes  de  terre  a  la  Chantilly. 
Potatoes  cut  out  into  round  shapes,  parboiled  in  salt 
water,  drained,  and  finished  cooking  in  a  rich  bechamel 
sauce,  when  served  sprinkled  with  a  little    hot   meat 

glace. 

Pmnmes  de  terre  a  V Alleviande. 

Plain  boiled  potatoes,  dished  up,  sauced  over  with  a 
sauce  composed  of   a   little   brown   sauce  mixed  with 
lemon  juice,  white  wine,  well  reduced  and  thickened 
with  a  liaison  of  Qgg  yolks  and  butter. 
Pommes  ellipses.        ^  Chipped  potatoes. 

Pommes  de  terre  a  la  Saxonne. 

Medium-sized   balls    of  potato  puree  (same  as  for 

croquets),  egged  and  crumbed  three  distinct  times,  well 

fried  in  hot  dripping ;  when  done  cut  open,  made  hollow 

and  filled  with  onion  puree,  reclosed  and  served  quickly, 

Pur^e  de  pommes  a  la  hourgeoise. 

Mashed  potatoes  dressed  on  a  dish  in  dome  form, 
surface  basted  with  melted  butter,  sprinkled  over  with 
fresh  bread  crumbs,  with  a  few  small  pieces  of  butter ,, 
and  baked  in  a  moderate  oven. 

Pommes  de  terre  a  la  Mantaise. 

Mashed  potatoes  dished  up  in  dome  form,  masked. 
over  with  a  thick  supreme  sauce  mingled   with  some 
potato  puree,  sprinkled   with  fresh  bread  crumbs  and 
a  few  drops  of  oiled  butter,  and  browned  in  the  oven. 
Po7nmes  de  terre  a  VAnglaise, 

Boiled  potatoes,  peeled,  dished  up,  seasoned  with 
pepper,  salt,  and  nutmeg,  sauced  over  with  melted  butter,, 
and  served. 


LEGUMES VEGETABLES  277 

Povimes  de  terre  d  la  Tyrolienne, 

Medium-sized     kidney    potatoes    seasoned,    stewed 

slowly  in  a  stewpan  with  cream,  beef  broth,  and  small 

pieces  of  butter,  when  dished  up  sprinkled  with  grated 

cheese. 

Pommes  de  terre  d  la  imysanne. 

Thickly  sliced  potatoes,  stewed  in  beef  broth,  flavoured 
with  onions  which  were  previously  fried  and  added. 
Before  serving  a  little  demi-glace  sauce  is  added  or 
poured  over  the  potatoes  when  dished  up. 

Pommes  de  terre  a  la  San  Bemo. 

Small  potato  dumplings  seasoned  with  pepper,  salt, 

and  nutmeg,  dipped  in  melted  butter  and  chopped  parsley, 

then    in   grated  parmesan   cheese ;   when   set    egged, 

crumbed  in  fresh  bread  crumbs,  and  fried  in  clarified 

butter. 

Pommes  de  terre  melangees. 

Coarsely  sliced  potatoes  parboiled,  mixed  with  an 
equal  quantity  of  sliced  cooking   apples,  stewed  well 
together,  with  a  little  fresh  butter  seasoned  with  salt. 
Pommes  de  terre  a  la  bonne  femme. 

Stewed  sliced  potatoes,  same  as  for  paysanne  style, 
adding  some  discs  of  fried  bacon. 

Pommes  de  terre  farcies. 

Large  kidney  potatoes  peeled,  made  hollow  and  filled 

with  any  kind  of  forcemeat,  placed  in  a  well -buttered 

saute  pan,  baked  in  the  oven,  and  glazed  with  meat  glaze 

when  done. 

Pommes  de  terre  au  lard. 

Cold  potatoes  cut  into  discs,  mixed  with  discs  of 

bacon,  seasoned,  and  fried  in  butter. 


278  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

Pommes  cle  terre  d  la  Bordelaise. 
Peeled   potatoes,  thinly    sliced,  fried  soft,  drained, 
broiled  in  a   saute  pan   with   oiled    butter   and  finely 
chopped  onions. 

Pommes  de  terre  a  VEspagnole. 
Sliced   potatoes,    boiled   and   drained,    served   with 
Espagnole  sauce. 

Pommes  de  terre  a  Vltalienne. 
Sliced  raw  potatoes,  placed  in  layers  in  a  well- 
buttered  flat  mould  alternately  with  slices  of  salami 
sausage  and  a  thick  white  sauce  consisting  of  cream, 
chopped  hard-boiled  yolks  of  eggs,  grated  parmesan 
cheese,  chopped  cooked  ham,  and  finely  cut  fillets  of 
anchovies,  the  last  layer  of  the  mould  being  anchovies. 
Baked  in  the  mould  in  a  hot  oven. 

Pommes  de  terre  frisees. 
Shapes  of  curls  cut  out  of  large  kidney  potatoes  with 
a  special  cutter,  resembling  curls  when  fried  in  clarified 
butter. 

Quenelles  de  pommes  de  terre. 
Potato  dumplings  poached  in  salt  water,   drained, 
dished  up,  and  sprinkled  over  with  fresh  bread  crumbs 
fried  in  butter. 

Pommes  de  terre  d  la  Sucdoise. 
Stewed    sliced    potatoes,   with    onions   and     meat 
gravy. 

Pommes  de  terre  d  la  Hanovrienne. 
Peeled  potatoes  sliced,  stewed  in  white  stock,  with 
fresh  butter  and  chopped  parsley. 


LEGUMES— VEGETABLES  279 

Pommes  de  terre  d  rimperatrice. 
Small  walnut  shapes,  cut  out  of  raw  potatoes,  par- 
boiled, drained,  mixed  with  sliced  truffles  and  mush- 
rooms, and  broiled  in  butter  until  quite  done. 

Pommes  de  terre  a  la  julienne. 
Peeled  raw  potatoes,  cut  in  small  square   shreds, 
fried  crisp  in  hot  fat,  drained,  sprinkled  with  salt,  and 
served  on  a  folded  napkin. 

Pommes  de  terre  a  la  Dieppoise. 
Cold  boiled  potatoes,  cut  into  slices,  together  with 
cold  sausages,  broiled  in  butter,  seasoned  and  served 
with  a  light  brown  sauce. 

Pommes  de  terre  d  la  Viemioise. 
Raw  potatoes  cut  into  discs,  stewed  in  beef  broth, 
flavoured  with  onions  and  cloves,  and  sprinkled  with 
finely  chopped  parsley  when  dished  up. 

Pomme  de  terre  d  la  Milanaise. 

Raw  potatoes  cut  into  discs,  parboiled,  drained, 
and  seasoned,  stewed  in  white  sauce  with  discs  of 
cooked  ham,  grated  parmesan  cheese  ;  when  done  mixed 
with  yolks  of  eggs,  and  placed  in  a  dish  to  cool,  shaped 
into  croquets,  egged,  crumbed,  and  fried  in  hot  fat  or 
dripping. 

Pommes  de  terre  d  la  Vaudoise. 

Sliced  peeled  potatoes,  ranged  in  layers  on  a  buttered 
baking  dish  alternately  with  pepper,  salt,  nutmeg,  and 
grated  Gruyere  cheese.  Sprinkle  top  with  grated 
cheese,  bread  crumbs,  and  a  few  drops  of  oiled  butter, 
and  bake  in  the  oven. 


280  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

Ponviies  de  terre  a  la  Robert. 
Stewed  sliced  potatoes  in  a  sharp  brown  sauce. 

Salsifis.— Salsifits. 

Salsifis  frits.  Fried  salsifits. 

Salsifis  d  la  bichainel.     Stewed  salsifits  in  white  sauce. 

Salsifis  a  la  Hollandaise. 
Stewed  salsifits  with  Hollandaise  sauce. 

Salsifis  an  heurre  fondu. 
Stewed  salsifits  with  oiled  butter. 

Beig7iets  de  salsifis.  Salsifit  fritters. 

Tomates. — Tomatoes. 

Tomates  crues.  Kaw  tomatoes. 

Tomates  an  natiirel.  Plain  boiled  tomatoes. 

Beignets  de  tomates.  Tomato  fritters. 

Puree  de  tomates.  Mashed  tomatoes. 

Tomates  saiit&es.  Broiled  tomatoes  in  butter. 

Toviates  frites.  Fried  tomatoes. 

Tomates  farcies.  Stuffed  tomatoes. 

Tomates  ait  gratin. 
Tomatoes  prepared  and  baked  in  the  gratin  style. 

Tomates  aux  fines  herbes. 
Tomatoes  stewed  with  finely-chopped  herbs. 

Tomates  grilUes.  Grilled  tomatoes. 


LEGUMES — VEGETABLES  281 

Tomates  a  la  Toscane. 
Stuffed    tomatoes    braised,    served    with    Perigord 
sauce. 

Tomates  farcies  d  la  Provengale. 
Braised  tomatoes,  stuffed  with  onion  puree  flavoured 
with  garHc,  served  with  demi-glace  sauce. 
Tomates  d  la  Sicilienne. 
Tomatoes,  centre  cut  out  and  filled  with  a  mixture 
of  tomato  pulp,  finely  chopped  ham,  parsley,  shallots, 
mushrooms,  and  bread  crumbs,  moistened  with  a  well- 
reduced  Madere  sauce,  ranged  on  baking  sheet,  sprinkled 
with  breadcrumbs,  grated  cheese,  and  a  few  drops  of  oil, 
and  baked  in  the  oven. 

Tomates  d  la  Florentine. 
Halves  of  tomatoes  stuffed  with  a  mixture  of  finely 
chopped  chicken  livers,  grated  parmesan  cheese,  egg 
yolks,  finely  chopped  shallots,  fried  in  oil,  and  white 
bread  crumbs,  moistened  with  sherry  wine,  and  well 
seasoned,  ranged  on  baking- sheet,  sprinkled  with  bread 
crumbs,  grated  cheese,  and  a  little  oiled  butter,  and 
baked  in  the  oven. 

Tomates  d  VEspagnole. 
Tomatoes    stuffed  with  forcemeat,   bread    crumbs, 
finely-chopped  ham,  moistened  with   egg-yolk,  brown 
sauce,  and  seasoned.    Braised  in  the  oven  and  served 
with  demi-glace  sauce. 

Tomates  d  la  Caroline. 
■    Baked  tomatoes  stuffed  with  rice,  previously  stewed 
in  beef  stock,  well  seasoned,  and   mixed  with  a  little 
grated  parmesan  cheese. 


282  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

Tomates  farcies  a  la  reine. 

Fresh  tomatoes  (firm)  scooiDed  out,  stuffed  with 
chicken  forcemeat,  baked,  and  served  with  Madere 
sauce. 

Tomates  roties. 

Roasted  tomatoes  (cut  in  halves  without  detaching 
them  entirely,  seeds  removed,  a  small  piece  of  butter 
and  seasoning  put  in  centre,  closed  up,  covered  with 
buttered  paper,  and  baked). 

Tomates  d  la  Bock  (American  dish). 

Sliced  tomatoes  broiled  in  butter,  seasoned  with 
pepper,  salt,  nutmeg,  and  lemon  juice,  and  chopped 
parsley. 

Tomates  a  VAlgerienne. 

Puree  of  tomatoes,  mixed  with  veloute  sauce,  aspic, 
and  whipped  cream,  set  in  little  moulds  (tomato  shape), 
served  cold. 

Tomates  a  la  Marseillaise. 

Halves  of  tomatoes,  seasoned,  fried  in  oil,  cut  sides 
spread  with  a  mixture  of  hard-boiled  egg-yolk,  chopped 
shallots,  chieves  and  parsley,  butter,  and  pounded 
anchovies,  sprinkled  with  bread  crumbs,  and  baked. 

Topinambours. — Jerusalem  artichokes. 

Topinavibours  d  la  i)oulette. 

Stewed  Jerusalem  artichokes  done  in  parsley  sauce 
(bechamel  and  chopped  parsley). 


LEGUMES VEGETABLES  283 

Topmambours  d  la  creme. 
Stewed  Jerusalem  artichokes  in  white  cream  sauce. 

Topinambours  d  VInclienne. 
Stewed  Jerusalem  artichokes  done  in  curry  sauce. 

Topinambours  aio  gratin. 

Stewed  Jerusalem  artichokes  iDrepared  and  baked  in 
the  gratin  style. 

Topinambours  d  VEspagnole. 
Stewed  Jerusalem  artichokes  with  brown  sauce. 

Topinambours  d  la  Bechamel. 
Stewed  Jerusalem  artichokes  in  white  sauce. 

Puree  de  topinambours. 
Mashed  Jerusalem  artichokes. 

Topinambours  d  la  Georgienne. 

Boiled  Jerusalem  artichokes,  sliced,  seasoned  with 
pepper,  salt,  and  nutmeg,  fried  in  butter,  dished  up, 
and  sprinkled  with  fresh  bread-crumbs  fried  slightly 
brown. 

Truffes— Truffles. 

Puree  de  trujfes. 
Mashed  truffles,  done  in  butter  and  brown  sauce. 

Truffes  d  Vltalienne. 

Slices  of  truffles,  broiled  in  fresh  butter,  with  finely 
mixed  shallots  and  parsley,  moistened  with  brown  gravy 
and  lemon -juice  ;  seasoned  with  salt,  cayenne,  and  a 
little  ground  mace. 

Puis  son  de  triiffes  d  la  Boy  ale. 

Large  round  truffles,  cleaned  and  dried,  stewed  in 
Madeira  wine,  set  to  cool,  drained,  and  served  on  an 

18 


284  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

oval-shaped  bread-crust,  covered  with  a  napkin,  decorated 
with  silver  skewers  stuck  with  truffles  and  parsley 
leaves. 

Truffes  a  la  serviette.^ 
Prepared  whole  truffles,  served  cold  on  folded  napkin. 

Truffes  de  Perigord. 
Black  Perigord  truffles. 

Truffes  sauUes  en  cliaynjpagne. 
Broiled  truffles  in  champagne. 

Truffes  sautees  d  la  Piemontaise. 
Broiled  Piedmontese  truffles. 


Oignons  d'Esioagne  bouillis. 
Plain  boiled  Spanish  onions. 

Oignons  d'Espagne  d  la  demi-glace. 
Stewed  or  boiled  Spanish  onions  with  brown  sauce. 

Salades.  —  Salads. 

Salades  d  VAnglaise.  English  salads. 

These  consist  of  coss  lettuces,  green  mint,  salad 
herbs,  beetroot,  radishes  and  spring  onions,  with  usual 
dressing. 

Salade  d'aspej'ges.  Asparagus  salad. 

Salade  de  coiicombres.  Cucumber  salad. 

Salade  Francaise.  French  salad. 

These  consist  of  cabbage  lettuces,  endives,  monk's- 
beard,  corn  salad,  dandelion,  and  sliced  beetroot,  with 
seasoning  of  one  part  of  oil,  two  of  French  vinegar,  finely 
chopped  salad  herbs  and  French  mustard,  garnished 
with  slices  of  hard-boiled  eggs. 

*  Truffles  k  la  serviette  are  usually  sent  to  table  with  some 
fresh  butter  served  separately. 


SALADES — SALADS  285 

Salade    de     betterave     d  Beetroot  and  Spanish  onion 

rEspagnole.  salad. 

Salade  a  Vltalienne.  Italian  salad. 

Prepared  with  various  kinds  of  meats  or  fish,  cooked 
vegetables,  tunny  fish,  anchovies,  olives,  capers,  pickles, 
and  Tartare  sauce  dessing. 

Salade  de  haricots  verts.      French  bean  salad. 

Salade  verte.  Green  salad. 

Salade  de  Ugumes.  Vegetable  salad. 

Salade  de  pommes  de  terre.  Potato  salad. 

Salade  de  choux-fleurs.        Cauliflower  salad. 

Salade  de  salsifis.  Salsify  salad. 

Salade  de  celeri.  Celery  salad. 

Salade  de  champignons.       Mushroom  salad. 

Salade  de  betterave.  Beetroot  salad. 

Salade  de  tomates.  Tomato  salad. 

Salade  de  civettes.  Chives  salad. 

Salade  de  radis.  Radish  salad. 

Salade defondsd'artichauts.Balsbd  of  artichoke  bottoms. 

Salade  de  sentence  de  raves.  Cole  seed  salad. 

Salade  de  pommes.  Apple  salad. 

Salade  de  chicorde.  Chicory  or  endive  salad. 

Salade     de      choux      de  Brussels  sprouts  salad. 

Bruxelles. 
Salade  de  truffes.  Truffle  salad. 

Salade  a  la  romahie.  Coss  lettuce  salad. 

Salade  a  la  paysanne.  Farmhouse  salad. 

Prepared  with  sliced  cooked  red  cabbage  (pickled), 
cold  potatoes,  and  celery  roots,  all  cut  in  slices  ;  seasoned 
with  pepper,  salt,  oil  and  vinegar. 

Salade  a  la  Grimod. 

Cabbage  lettuces,  cooked  French  beans  and  beetroots, 
ranged  on  toasted  bread  slices  previously  dipped  in 
sweet  oil,  garnished  with  groups  of  finely  chopped  white 
and  yolk  of  eggs,  beetroots  or  chervil ;  seasoned  with 
pepper,  salt,  oil,  and  chilli  vinegar. 


286  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

Salade  de  legumes  d  la  Lyonnaise. 

Vegetable  salad  (macedoine  of  vegetables),  mingled 
wiih  thin  slices  of  Lyons  sausage  shredded,  anchovy 
fillets,  olives,  capers,  and  beetroots  ;  served  with  cold 
ravigote  sauce. 

Salade  a  la  Dumas. 

Small  squares  of  cooked  potatoes,  beetroots,  gherkins 
or  pickled  cucumbers,  and  raw  tomatoes,  dressed  with 
a  mixture  of  hard  yolks  of  eggs  rubbed  through  a  sieve, 
anchovy  essence,  oil,vinegar,  pepper  and  salt;  ornamented 
with  chopped  white  of  eggs,  tarragon,  chervil,  beetroots, 
chives,  and  white  lettuce  leaves. 

Salade  a  la  Comtoise. 
Lettuce  salad,  with   coarsely  minced    streaked   salt 
pork  (petit  sale),  fried  crisp  in  butter,  poured  hot  over 
the  salad,  well  mixed  and  served.  Salt  should  be  omitted 
in  this  salad,  as  the  pork  is  usually  salt  enough. 

Salade  a  Vltalienne.  Italian  salad. 

Cooked  carrots,  turnips,  potatoes,  and  beetroots,  cut  out 
in  half-inch  thick  round  slices,  ranged  in  pyramid  form 
in  salad  bowl,  with  cooked  Brussels  sprouts,  French 
beans,  and  sprigs  of  cauliflowers  ;  dressed  with  ravigote 
sauce. 

Salade  a  la  Sotteville. 

Coss  lettuce  salad,  prepared  with  a  dressing  of  pepper, 
salt,  vinegar,  fresh  cream,  and  chopped  parsley. 

Salade  de  laitue.  Cabbage  lettuce  salad. 

Salade  de  haricots  hlancs.    Kidney  bean  salad. 
Salade  de  cresson.  Watercress  salad. 

Salade  a  VEspagnole.  Spanish  salad. 

Prepared  with  sliced  tomatoes,  kidney  beans,  French 
beans,  Spanish  peas,  pickled  button  onions,  and  mayon- 
naise sauce. 

Salade  a  la  Biisse.  Russian  salad. 

Consists  of  a  mixture  of  cooked  carrots,  beetroots, 
parsnips,  and  gherkins  cut  in  small  squares  or  oblongs, 


SALADES SALADS  287 

capers,  peas,  scraped  horseradish,  lobster  meat,  ham 
and  tongue  cut  in  small  squares,  dressed  with  dissolved 
aspic  jelly  and  mayonnaise  sauce,  garnished  with  aspic 
jelly  and  caviare. 

Salade  a  la  Bachel.  Celery  salad,  Rachel  style. 

Shred  celery  stalks  and  whites  of  hard-boiled  eggs, 
seasoned  with  Prince  of  Wales  sauce  (see  Sauces), 
garnished  with  yolks  of  hard-boiled  eggs. 

Salade  a  la  Polonaise.         Polish  salad. 

Prepared  with  lettuce,  endives,  celery,  sliced  potatoes, 
apples,  smoked  salmon,  and  fillets  of  anchovies,  seasoned 
with  the  usual  salad  dressing,  garnished  with  minced 
ham  and  hard-boiled  eggs. 

Salade  Suedoise,  Swedish  salad. 

Consists  of  pickled  filleted  herrings,  cold  beef,  boiled 
potatoes,  sour  apples  (all  cut  into  dice),  chopped  capers 
and  gherkins,  tarragon  and  chervil,  seasoned  with  plain 
salad  dressing ;  garnished  with  olives,  fillets  of  anchovies 
and  oysters. 

Salade  d'ete.  Summer  salad. 

Prepared  with  lettuce,  cucumber,  artichoke  bottoms, 
all  cut  into  thin  slices ;  seasoned  with  ordinary  salad 
dressing,  and  garnished  with  radishes  and  pickled  red 
cabbage. 

Salade  d'hiver.  Winter  salad. 

A  mixture  of  finely  shred  endive,  celery,  beetroot, 
horseradish,  and  boiled  potatoes  ;  seasoned  with  oil, 
vinegar,  pepper  and  salt. 

Salade  a  la  Beine.  Queen  salad. 

White  celery  stalks,  whites  of  hard-boiled  eggs,  finely 
shred;  seasoned  with  tartare  sauce,  finely  chopped 
truffles  and  parsley,  and  garnished  with  slices  of 
Erunswick  sausage  and  yolks  of  hard-boiled  eggs. 


288  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

Salade  de  raiponces.  Eampion  salad. 

Salade  a  la  Flamande.         Flemish  salad. 

A  mixture  of  fillets  of  Dutch  herrings,  apples,  beet- 
root, cooked  potatoes,  Brussels  sprouts,  seakale  and 
cauliflower,  cut  up  coarsely,  seasoned  with  the  ordinary 
salad  dressing. 

Salade  a  la  Cazanova.  Cazanova  salad. 

Prepared  with  coarsely  shred  celery,  truffles,  and 
whites  of  hard-boiled  eggs  ;  seasoned  with  mayonnaise 
sauce  and  finely  chopped  salad  herbs  and  shallots. 

Salade  depoisson.  Fish  salad. 

Salade  de  homard.  Lobster  salad. 

Salade  d'anchois.  Anchovy  salad. 

Salade  de  crahe  Crab  salad. 

Salade  aux  oeiifs.  Egg  salad. 

Salade  de  volaille.  Chicken  salad. 

Salade  de  hoeuf  fume.  Hamburg  beef  salad. 

Salade  de  gihier.  Game  salad. 

Salade  de  i:)erdreau.  Partridge  salad. 

Salade  de  lapin.  Rabbit  salad. 
Salade  de  perdrix  blanche.  Ptarmigan  salad. 

Salade  d'oranges.  Orange  salad. 

Salade  aujambon.  Ham  salad. 

Salade  Napolitaine.  Naples  salad. 

Consists  of  thin  slices  of  Bologna  sausage  and  sliced 
hard-boiled  eggs,  dressed  alternately  en  couronne  ;  centre 
filled  with  shred  celery,  lettuce  and  beetroot ;  dressed 
with  tartare  sauce,  and  sprmkled  with  chopped  parsley. 

Salade  a  Vamericaine.  American  salad. 

Finely  shred  white  leaves  of  cow-cabbage,  mixed  with 
pickled  chilli  pods  ;  seasoned  with  mayonnaise  sauce. 


PICKLED    VEGETABLES,    ETC.  289 

Legumes  confits  au  Vinaigre  et  Salades  de  Fruits  au 

Vinaigre. 

Vegetable  Pickles,  and  Sour  Fruit  Salads. 

Piccalilli.  Mixed  pickles. 

Noix  mamiees.  Pickled  walnuts. 

Concomhres  marines.  Pickled  cucumbers. 

Aubergines  marinees.  Pickled  egg-plants. 

Betteraves  marinees.  Pickled  beetroot. 

Ghoux-fleurs  marines.  Pickled  cauliflower. 

Champignons  au  vinaigre.  Pickled  mushrooms. 

Ble  de  Turqide  au  vinaigre.  Pickled  Indian  corn. 

Haricots  verts  au  vinaigre.  Pickled  French  beans. 

Olives  marinees.  Pickled  olives. 

Oignons  au  vinaigre.  Pickled  onions. 

Chou  rouge  au  vinaigre.       Pickled  red  cabbage. 

Cornichons  au  vinaigre.       Gherkin  pickles. 

Concomhres  a  la  moutarde.  Cucumber  pickled  in  mustard 

sauce. 

Concomhres  en  renioulade.   Cucumber  in  mustard   and 

tomato  sauce. 

Pickles  Indienne.  West  Indian  pickles. 

Poivre  de  Guinee  rouge  au  Pickled  red  chillies. 
vinaigre. 

Ails  au  vinaigre.  Garlic  pickle. 

Baifort  marine.  Horseradish  pickle. 

Topinamhoursaic vinaigre.  Pickled      Jerusalem      arti- 
chokes. 

^chalotes  au  vinaigre.  Pickled  shallots. 

Tomates  marinees.  Pickled  tomatoes. 

Melons  marhies.  Pickled  melons. 

Fondsd'artichauts  marines.  Pickled  artichoke  bottoms. 

Barhillons  au  vinaigre.        Pickled  barberries. 

Poivre     de     Guinee     au  Pickled  capsicums. 
vinaigre. 

Citrons  marines.  Pickled  lemons. 

Canneberges   (airelles)   au  Pickled  cranberries. 
vi^iaigre. 


290  PRACTICAL    GASTEONOMY 


SAUCES.  -  SAUCES. 

Sauce  d  Vamiral.  Admiral  sauce. 

A  white  sauce,  with  chopped  capers,  parsley,  lemon- 
rind  and  juice,  and  anchovy  paste  to  flavour. 

Sauce  Allemancle.  German  sauce. 

A  white  sauce,  made  from  veal  stock,  thickened  with 
flour,  cream,  and  yolks  of  eggs,  flavoured  with  nutmeg 
and  lemon  juice. 

Sauce  Aurore.  Aurora  sauce. 

Consists  of  Bechamel  sauce,  cream,  red  pepper,  tar- 
ragon and  shallot,  flavouring  with  finely  chopped  lobster 
to  give  it  a  reddish  tint. 

Sauce  Albert,  Albert  sauce. 

Consists  of  Allemande  sauce,  finely  chopped  shallots 
reduced  in  tarragon  vinegar,  grated  horse-radish,  cream, 
yolk  of  eggs,  and  chopped  parsley. 

Sauce  ancliois.  Anchovy  sauce. 

A  fish  sauce  made  with  flour,  fish  stock,  fresh  butter, 
and  anchovy  essence. 

Sauce  Avignonnaise.  Avignonese  sauce. 

Consists  of  Bechamel  sauce,  yolks  of  eggs,  grated 
parmesan,  and  chopped  parsley ;  flavoured  with  shallots 
and  garlic. 

Sauce  aux  airelles  roiiges.  Cranberry  sauce. 
Sauce  a  la  minute.  Hasty  sauce. 

Sauce  Bearnaise.  Bearnaise  sauce. 

Consists  of  meat-extract,  fi-esh  butter,  yolks  of  eggs, 
chopped  shallots,  tarragon,  parsley,  cayenne  pepper,  and 
lemon  juice. 

Sauce  Bechamel.  Bechamel  sauce. 

Mad^  with  milk,  flour,  and  butter,  flavoured  with 
pepper,  nutmeg  and  bay-leaf. 


SAUCES  291 

Sauce  au  beurre  noir.  Burnt  butter  sauce. 

A  thin,  brown  sauce  made  with  brown  butter, 
flavoured  with  tarragon  vinegar  and  anchovy  essence. 

Sauce  bigarade.  Bigarade  sauce. 

A  brown  sauce,  flavoured  with  bitter  oranges. 

Sauce  au  beurre.  Butter  sauce. 

Sauce  blanche  a  Vanglaise.  Melted  butter  sauce. 
Sauce  Bohemienne.  Bohemian  sauce. 

A  white  sauce  made  with  fresh  bread-crumbs,  white 
stock,  butter,  and  grated  horseradish;  seasoned  with 
pepper  and  salt. 

Sauce  Bretonne.  Bretonne  sauce. 

A  brown  onion  sauce. 

Sauce  Bordelaise.  Bordelaise  sauce. 

A  brown  sauce  with  beef  marrow,  red  wine,  chopped 
parsley,  tarragon,  and  shallots. 

Sauce  Bourguignonne.  Burgundy  sauce. 

A  brown  sauce,  composed  of  Espagnole  sauce,  finely 
minced  onions,  and  parsley  reduced  in  Burgundy  wine  ; 
flavoured  with  thyme,  bay-leaf,  cloves  and  mace. 

Sauce  d  la  creme.  Cream  sauce. 

Bechamel  sauce  finished  with  fresh  cream. 

Sauce  aiix  cdiores.  Caper  sauce. 

Sauce  aux  cdiores  brune.      Brown  caper  sauce. 

A  brown  sauce,  with  coarsely  chopped  capers, 
seasoned  with  nutmeg  and  black  pepper. 

Sauce  cardinal.  Cardinal  sauce. 

A  rich  white  fish  sauce,  mixed  with  lobster  spawn, 
flavoured  with  essence  of  anchovies  and  chilli  vinegar. 

Saiice  Cazanova.  Cazanova  sauce. 

A  cold  fish  or  salad  sauce,  composed  of  mayonnaise 
sauce,  with  finely  shred  truffles,  whites  of  hard-boiled 
eggs,  flavoured  with  garlic. 


292  PKACTICAL    GASTEONOMY 

Sauce  au  celeri.  Celery  sauce. 

A  white  sauce  with  cooked  minced  celery,  served  with 
boiled  poultry. 

Sauce  Chateaubriand.  Chateaubriand  sauce. 

A  rich  brown  sauce  made  with  meat  glaze,  Espagnole 
sauce,  fresh  butter,  white  wine,  lemon  juice,  and  chopped 
parsley ;  flavoured  with  cayenne  pepper  and  red  currant 

jelly. 

Sauce  chasseur.  Hunter's  sauce. 

Consists  of  Espagnole  sauce,  chopped  shallots,  mush- 
rooms, and  parsley;  flavoured  with  pepper,  lemon  juice, 
and  game  essence. 

Sauce  chevreuil.  Venison  sauce. 

A  brown  sauce,  with  claret,  port  wine,  and  thinly 
sliced  gherkins  ;  seasoned  with  red  pepper. 

Sauce  aux  chamingnons.      Mushroom  sauce. 
Sauce  aux  crevettes.  Shrimp  sauce. 

Sauce  Cumberland.  Cumberland  sauce. 

A  brown  sauce,  flavoured  with  Seville  oranges,  red 
currant  jelly,  and  mustard  boiled  with  the  sauce. 

Sauce  chazidfroid  brune.       Brown  chaudfroid  sauce. 

A  rich  brown  sauce  mixed  with  savoury  jelly,  to 
which  is  added  the  flavour  of  certain  fish,  meat  or  game. 
Used  as  dressing  for  the  preparation  of  chaudfroid 
dishes. 

Sauce  chaudfroid  blonde.     White  chaudfroid  sauce. 
Savxie  Colbert.  Colbert  sauce. 

A  brown  fish  sauce,  with  chopped  parsley  and 
tarragon,  fresh  butter  and  lemon  juice. 

Sauce  cornichons.  Gherkin  sauce. 

Poivrade  sauce  mixed  with  finely  minced  gherkins. 

Sauce  demi-glace.  Demi-glaze  sauce. 

A  clear  brown  sauce  reduced  with  meat  extract. 


SAUCES  293 

Sauce  d  la  Diable.  De^^lled  sauce. 

A  brown  sauce  with  finely  chopped  shallots,  seasoned 
with  Cayenne  pepper,  chilli  vinegar,  and  Harvey  sauce. 

Sauce  Duxelles.  Duxelles  sauce. 

A  brown  sauce,  with  finely  chopped  truffles,  mush- 
rooms, cooked  ham,  parsley  and  shallots,  thickened 
with  egg-yolks,  and  flavoured  with  lemon  juice. 

Sauce  a  la  Duchesse.  Duchesse  sauce. 

A  white  sauce,  with  finely  chopped  white  mushrooms, 
cooked  ox-tongue,  and  fresh  butter  as  liaison. 

Sauce  diplomate.  Diplomatic  sauce. 

A  fish  sauce,  consisting  of  Bechamel  sauce,  lobster 
coral,  fresh  butter,  and  anchovy  essence. 

Sauce  echalote.  Shallot  sauce. 

A  brown  gravy  sauce  with  finely  minced  shallots, 
lemon  juice,  and  chopped  parsley. 

Sauce  Espagnole.  Spanish  sauce. 

A  thick  brown  gravy:  serves  as  foundation  of  most 
brown  sauces  used  in  cookery. 

Sauce  d  Vessence  de  gibier.   Essence  of  game  sauce. 
Sauce  e^picure.  Epicurean  sauce. 

A  white  fish  sauce,  consisting  of  melted  butter  sauce, 
mixed  with  a  little  walnut  ketchup,  chilli  vinegar,  and 
Cayenne  pepper. 

Sauce  d  Vestragon.  Tarragon  sauce. 

A  clear  brown  sauce  flavoured  with  tarragon  leaves. 
Served  with  poultry  or  quenelles. 

Sauce  aux  ecrevisses.  Crayfish  sauce. 

Bechamel  sauce  with  crayfish  tails,  finished  with  a 
little  crayfish  butter. 

Sauce  fermiere.  Farmhouse  sauce. 

A  French  sauce,  consisting  of  Espagnole  sauce  with 


294  PRACTICAL    GASTEONOMY 

finely  chopped  ham,  parsley,  and  capers.  Usually  served 
with  game. 

Sauce  fines  herbes.  Fine  herbs  sauce. 

A  white  fish  sauce  reduced  with  white  wine,  flavoured 
with  grated  nutmeg  and  white  pepper,  thickened  with 
fresh  butter  and  yolks  of  eggs.  Chopped  shallots  are 
sometimes  added. 

Satice  d  la  Flamancle.  Flemish  sauce. 

Sauce  for  fish,  made  with  melted  butter  sauce,  thick- 
ened with  yolks  of  eggs  and  prepared  mustard. 

Sauce  fleurette.  Fleurette  sauce. 

A  white  sauce,  served  with  fish  or  vegetables,  made 
from  flour,  butter  and  fleurette  (which  is  the  name 
applied  to  the  first  skimming  of  milk  which  is  very 
sweet) ;  the  sauce  is  seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper. 

Sauce  fi^ianciere,  Financiere  sauce. 

A  brown  sauce,  well  reduced  with  sherry,  meat 
extract  and  mushroom  ketchup.  The  garniture  of 
truffles,  small  mushrooms,  cock's-combs,  &c.,  is  added 
when  the  sauce  is  ready  for  serving. 

Sauce  fenouil.  Fennel  sauce. 

A  white  sauce  with  chopped  fennel.  Served  with 
boiled  fish. 

Sauce  Genoise.  Genoese  sauce. 

A  brown  fish  sauce,  prepared  with  Espagnole  sauce, 
reduced  with  red  wine,  mixed  with  chopped  parsley, 
anchovy  butter,  and  chopped  mushrooms ;  flavoured  with 
grated  nutmeg  and  lemon  juice. 

Saiice  Genevois.  Genevan  sauce. 

A  brown  fish  sauce,  flavoured  with  Madeira  wine, 
garlic,  and  anchovy  essence,  thickened  with  fresh  butter. 

Sauce  gibier.  Game  sauce. 

A  brown  sauce,  flavoured  with  certain  kinds  of  game, 
reduced  with  red  wine. 


SAUCES  295 

Sauce  a  la  Gloucester.  Gloucester  sauce. 

A  cold  sauce  for  fish  or  salads,  prepared  with 
mayonnaise  sauce,  cream,  chilli  vinegar,  chopped  tarra- 
gon, French  mustard,  and  Cayenne  pepper. 

Sauce  Garibaldi.  Garibaldi  sauce. 

A  brown  sauce  for  meat  or  fish,  with  pounded  garlic, 
capers,  curry  powder,  mustard,  anchovy  paste  and  chilli 
vinegar. 

Sauce  a  la  generale.  General's  sauce. 

A  brown  savoury  sauce  made  with  melted  butter,  lemon 
juice,  tarragon  vinegar,  Se\dlle  orange  rinds  finely 
chopped,  and  sherry  flavoured  with  garlic,  bay-leaf, 
thyme,  clove,  shallot,  mace,  salt  and  pepper. 

Sauce  Hessoise.  Hessian  sauce. 

A  kind  of  cold  horseradish  sauce,  made  with  sour 
cream,  grated  horseradish  and  fresh  bread-crumbs, 
seasoned  with  sugar  and  salt ;  served  with  roast  beef  or 
steaks. 

Sauce  Hollandaise.  Dutch  sauce. 

A  rich  fish  sauce,  prepared  with  butter,  yolks  of  eggs, 
tarragon  vinegar,  lemon  juice  and  mignonette  pepper ; 
a  little  Bechamel  sauce  is  sometimes  added. 

Sauce  Hollandaise  verte.    Green  Dutch  sauce. 
Hollandaise  sauce  mixed  with  young  parsley  leaves, 
well  boiled  and  pounded. 

Sauce  a  la  Holstein.         Holstein  sauce. 

A  white  sauce  for  fish,  made  with  Bechamel  sauce, 
fish  stock  and  white  wine,  well  reduced  ;  thickened  with 
egg-yolks  and  flavoured  with  nutmeg. 

Sauce  Mere  de  sancjlier.     Boar's  head  sauce. 

A  cold  sauce,  prepared  with  bitter  orange  juice  and 
finely  chopped  rind,  sugar,  red  currant  jelly,  port  wine, 
and  prepared  mustard,  seasoned  with  black  pepper. 
This  sauce  is  useful  for  almost  every  kind  of  cold  meat, 
and  will  keep  for  some  time  if  bottled. 


296  PEACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

Sauce  ho7narcl.  Lobster  sauce. 

Sauce  aux  huitres.  Oyster  sauce. 

Sauce  Indienne.  Indian  sauce. 

A  brown  sauce,  flavoured  with  curry  powder. 

Sauce  Italienne.  Italian  sauce. 

A  brown  sauce,  made  witliEspagnole  sauce,  to  which 
tomato  puree,  a  little  white  wine,  chopped  shallots  which 
have  been  fried  in  oil,  pepper,  lemon  juice,  nutmeg,  and 
chopped  mushrooms  are  added. 

Sauce  Joinville.  Joinville  sauce. 

A  rich  fish  sauce  made  with  flour,  butter,  fish  broth, 
finished  with  a  liaison  of  yolks  of  eggs,  fresh  butter,  and 
lobster  coral ;  flavoured  with  lemon  juice  and  Cayenne 
pepper. 

Sauce  au  jamhon.  Ham  sauce. 

A  brown  sauce  with  finely  shred  ham,  chopped  chives, 
shallots  and  parsley,  flavoured  with  lemon  juice.  Suit- 
ably served  with  white  meats,  veal,  pork,  etc. 

Sauce  Livoiirnaise.  Leghorn  sauce. 

A  cold  sauce,  prepared  with  pounded  anchovy  fillets, 
yolks  of  eggs,  sweet  oil,  vinegar,  chopped  parsley,  pepper 
and  nutmeg. 

Sauce  Lyonnaise.  Lyons  sauce. 

A  kind  of  tomato  sauce,  with  coarsely  shred  Spanish 
onions  (previously  fried  in  butter) ;  flavoured  with  meat- 
glaze  and  lemon  juice. 

Sauce  Madere.  Madeira  sauce. 

A  brown  sauce,  composed  of  Espagnole  sauce,  tomato 
sauce,  reduced  with  Madeira  wine. 

Sauce  maitre-d' hotel.        Hotel  keeper's  sauce. 
A   white   sauce  with   kneaded   butter,   cream,    and 
chopped  parsley. 

Sauce  Maltaise.  Maltese  sauce. 

Veloute    sauce   with   chopped  parsley,   shallots  and 


SAUCES  297 

mushrooms,  diluted  with  sherry  wine  ;   flavoured  with 
lemon  juice  and  finely- shred  orange  rind. 

Sauce  matelote  hlanche.       Matelote  sauce,  white. 

A  white  oyster  sauce  with  mushroom  juice,  white 
wine,  and  button  mushrooms,  flavoured  with  savoury 
herbs. 

Sauce  matelote  hrune.  Matelote  sauce,  brown. 

A  red-wine  sauce  with  fried  button  onions  and 
button  mushrooms,  flavoured  with  fine  herbs  and 
anchovy  essence. 

Sauce  a  la  mentlie.  Mint  sauce. 

Consists  of  vinegar,  chopped  green  mint  leaves,  and 
moist  sugar. 

Sauce  mayonnaise.  Mayonnaise  sauce. 

A  cold  sauce  composed  of  yolks  of  eggs,  salt,  pepper, 
salad  oil  and  vinegar ;  a  little  cold  Bechamel  sauce  or 
cream  is  sometimes  added.  This  sauce  serves  as  dress- 
ing for  salads,  mayonnaise  of  fish,  meat,  poultry,  &c. 

Sauce  Malaga.  Port  wine  sauce. 

A  brown  sauce  prepared  with  meat  glaze,  port  wine 
and  lemon  juice;  flavoured  with  shallots  and  cayenne. 

Sauce  Maximilien.  Maximilian  sauce. 

Tartare  sauce  with  tomato  pulp,  and  finely  chopped 
tarragon  leaves  to  flavour. 

Sauce  Mirabeau.  Mirabeau  sauce. 

A  white  sauce  with  pounded  garlic,  chopped  parsley, 
lemon  juice,  and  a  liaison  of  butter  and  meat  extract. 

Sauce  aux  moules.  Mussel  sauce. 

Hollandaise  sauce  with  cooked  mussels. 

Satice  a  la  moelle  de  ho&uf.   Beef  marrow  sauce. 

Espagnole  sauce  flavoured  with  fried  shallot,  mixed 
with  blanched  beef  marrow  cut  in  thin  slices,  chopped 
parsley,  a  little  vinegar  and  red  pepper. 


298  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

Sauce  moutarde.  Mustard  sauce. 

Melted  butter  or  Becliamel  sauce,  mixed  with  pre- 
pared mustard. 

Sauce  Naioolitaine.  Neapolitan  sauce. 

A  brown  sauce  with  finely  minced  ham,  claret, 
currant  jelly  and  grated  horseradish,  flavoured  with 
shallots,  bay-leaf,  thyme  and  cloves. 

Saiice  Norvegienne.  Norwegian  sauce. 

A  cold  sauce  prepared  with  hard-boiled  eggs  (which 
are  passed  through  a  sieve),  yolks  of  fresh  eggs,  salt, 
pepper,  prepared  mustard,  oil  and  vinegar,  mixed  with 
finely  chopped  savoury  herbs. 

Sauce  uonijareille.  Nonpareil  sauce. 

Hollandaise  sauce  worked  up  with  crayfish  or  lobster 
butter  ;  mixed  with  chopped  lobster  meat,  mushrooms, 
hard-boiled  whites  of  eggs  and  truffles,  all  finely  chopped. 

Sauce  Normande.  Normandy  sauce. 

A  white  fish  sauce,  thickened  with  a  liaison  of  yolks 
of  eggs,  fresh  butter ;  flavoured  with  lemon  juice  and 
essence  of  fish  (reduced  fish  stock). 

Sauce  aux  olives.  Olive  sauce. 

A  brown  sauce  with  stoned  or  turned  olives,  flavoured 
with  a  little  lemon  juice.  Served  with  ducks,  fowls 
and  beef. 

Sauxie  aux  ceufs.  Egg  sauce. 

A  white  sauce  with  hard-boiled  eggs  finely  chopped. 

Sauce  aux  oignoyis.  Onion  sauce. 

A  white  milk  sauce  with  finely  shred  onions, 
seasoned  with  nutmeg,  salt  and  pepper.  Served  with 
boiled  rabbit  or  mutton. 

Sauce  d  Voseille.  Sorrel  sauce. 

A  clear  gravy  sauce  with  finely  chopped  blanched 
sorrel  leaves.     Served  with  braised  or  boiled  fowls,  &c. 


SAUCES  299 

Smice  a  V orange.  Orange  sauce. 

Reduced  gravy  sauce,  mixed  with  orange  juice  and 
finely  cut  orange  rind.  Served  with  roast  or  stewed 
ducks  or  game. 

Sauce  Parisienne.  Parisian  sauce. 

A  rich  brown  sauce  with  chopped  shallots,  parsley, 
lemon  juice,  and  meat  glaze,  worked  up  with  a  little 
fresh  butter.  Served  with  entrecotes,  steaks,  or  fillets 
of  beef. 

Sauce  persil.  Parsley  sauce. 

Melted  butter  or  Bechamel  sauce,  with  finely  chopped 
parsley. 

Sauce  Perigueux.  Perigord  sauce. 

A  rich  brown  sauce  with  finely  chopped  truffles, 
Madeira  wine,  a  little  meat  glaze  and  anchovy  butter, 
flavoured  with  shallots. 

Sauce  ijersillade.  Persillade  sauce. 

A  kind  of  vinaigrette  sauce  prepared  with  mustard, 
sweet  oil,  vinegar,  salt,  pepper,  lemon  juice,  and  chopped 
savoury  herbs,  served  cold  with  fish,  vegetables  or  salad. 

Sauce  piquante.  Piquant  sauce. 

A  sharp  brown  sauce  with  chopped  gherkins,  capers, 
and  shallots,  seasoned  with  plenty  of  pepper  and  essence 
of  anchovy. 

Sauce  'poivrade.  Pepper  sauce. 

A  brown  pepper  sauce,  flavoured  with  lean  bacon 
or  ham,  celery,  onions,  thyme  and  bay-leaf,  reduced 
with  vinegar,  anchovy  essence  and  black  pepper. 

Sauce  poulette.  Poulette  sauce. 

A  white  sauce  made  from  veal  stock,  flavoured  with 
aromatic  herbs,  thickened  with  a  liaison  of  egg  yolks 
and  fresh  butter,  finished  with  chopped  parsley  and 
lemon  juice. 

19 


300  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

Sauce  Polonaise.  Polish  sauce. 

Veloute  sauce  with  sour  cream,  grated  horseradish, 
chopped  fennel  and  lemon  juice.  Served  with  cutlets 
or  steaks. 

Sauce  pauvreliomme.  Poor  man  sauce. 

A  plain  brown  sauce,  containing  some  tomato 
ketchup  and  anchovy  fish  essence.  Suitable  as  a  fish 
sauce. 

Sauce  Provencale.  Provence  sauce. 

Espagnole  sauce  with  tomato  pulp,  finely  chopped 
and  fried  onions,  sliced  mushrooms,  and  chopped  parsley, 
flavoured  with  lemon  juice,  garlic,  and  a  little  Cayenne 
pepper. 

Sauce  Prince  de  Galles.       Prince  of  Wales  sauce. 

A  cold  sauce  prepared  with  finely  chopped  hard- 
boiled  eggs  and  yolks  of  raw  eggs,  salad  oil,  tarragon 
vinegar,  mixed  with  finely  chopped  savoury  herbs  and 
prepared  French  mustard.  Served  with  broiled  or  fried 
fish,  or  cooked  meat  a  la  Tartare. 

Sauce  au pain.  Bread  sauce. 

Consists  of  milk  in  which  an  onion  has  been  boiled, 
stale  white  bread  crumbs,  and  butter  ;  seasoned  with 
cloves,  salt,  and  pepper. 

Sauce  aux  pomnies.  Apple  sauce. 

A  kind  of  apple  pulp,  slightly  sweetened,  to  be  served 
with  roast  pork  or  geese. 

Sauce  ravigote  {chaude).      Ravigote  sauce  (hot). 

A  white  sauce,  flavoured  with  savoury  herbs,  reduced 
with  wine  vinegar,  finished  with  a  liaison  of  fine  herbs, 
butter  and  cream. 

Sauce  ravigote  (froide).      Ravigote  sauce  (cold). 

Mayonnaise  sauce,  mixed  with  finely  chopped  parsley, 
chives,  chervil,  tarragon  and  shallots,  tinted  with  a 
little  spinach  greening. 


SAUCES  301 

Sauce  raifort  {chaucle).         Horseradish  sauce  (hot). 

Bechamel  sauce,  mixed  with  grated  horseradish  and 
a  Httle  cream,  seasoned  with  sugar  and  salt. 

Sauce  raifort  (froide).  Horseradish  sauce  (cold). 

Sour  cream,  mixed  with  freshly  grated  horseradish 
and  a  little  vinegar. 

Sauce  refonne.  Reform  sauce. 

Poivrade  sauce,  diluted  with  port  wine,  red  currant 
jelly  and  Worcester  sauce. 

Sauce  Begence.  Regent  sauce. 

A    brown   thick    gravy   sauce,    with    white    wine 
flavoured  with  essence  of  parsley-root  and  finely  minced 
onions. 

Sauce  a  la  Beine-Marie.       Queen  Mary  sauce. 

A  brown  sauce,  made  with  strong  meat  gravy,  port 
wine,  chopped  shallots,  parsley,  and  pounded  anchovies. 
Served  with  all  kinds  of  roast  meats  or  boiled  fish. 

Sauce  remotdacle.  Remoulade  sauce. 

A  mayonnaise  sauce,  with  chopped  parsley,  fennel, 
tarragon  leaves,  shallots,  and  prepared  mustard. 

Sauce  Bicardo.  Ricardo  sauce. 

A  brown  sauce,  prepared  from  the  carcase  of  game, 
with  finely  minced  fried  onions,  toasted  bread,  slierry, 
thickened  with  a  little  meat  glaze.  Served  with  dishes 
of  game,  &c. 

Sauce  Bichelieu.  Richelieu  sauce. 

A  brown  game  sauce,  with  Madeira  wine  and  meat 
extract. 

Sauce  Bobert.  Robert  sauce. 

A  brown  sauce,  with  finely  chopped  onions  fried  in 
butter,  chilli  vinegar,  prepared  mustard,  and  a  little 
anchovy  essence. 


302  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

Sauce  Bomaine.  Roman  sauce. 

A  brown  sauce  for  fish,  prepared  with  Espagnole 
sauce,  mixed  with  currants,  sultanas,  Itahan  pine-seeds 
[jjignoli),  moistened  with  a  httle  white  wine  vinegar  ; 
all  is  pressed  through  a  sieve  before  serving. 

Sauce  Busse.  Russian  sauce. 

A  white  sauce,  "^dth  grated  horseradish,  minced 
ham,  finely  chopped  shallots,  moistened  with  vinegar 
and  white  wine  ;  seasoned  with  sugar,  pepper,  salt  and 
savoury  herbs.    Served  hot. 

Sauce  salmi.  Salmi  sauce. 

A  brown  game  sauce,  with  white  wine,  meat  glaze, 
flavoured  with  savoury  herbs. 

Sauce  Sicilienne.  Sicilian  sauce. 

Espagnole  sauce,  reduced  with  Marsala  wine,  seasoned 
with  Cayenne  pepper  ;  thin  rings  of  onions  fried  in  butter 
are  mixed  with  the  sauce  just  before  serving.  Served 
mth  beef  steaks,  roast  fillets  of  beef,  &c. 

Sauce  Soubise.  Soubise  sauce. 

A  white  onion  sauce,  flavoured,  besides  onions,  with 
nutmeg,  pepper,  and  a  little  sugar  and  salt  ;  the  sauce  is 
passed  through  a  hair  sieve,  and  finished  with  fresh 
cream  and  butter. 

Sauce  a  la  Soyer.  Soyer  sauce. 

A  white  fish  sauce,  flavoured  with  savoury  herbs, 
shallots,  and  lemon  juice,  thickened  with  Qgg  yolks  and 
cream. 

Sauce  stragotte.  Stragotto  sauce. 

A  kind  of  rich  game  sauce,  with  tomato  pulp  and 
Madeira  wine,  flavoured  with  soup  vegetables,  celery 
and  parsley  roots,  shallots,  cloves  and  mace.  Generally 
served  with  Italian  dishes. 

Sauce  Suedoise.  Swedish  sauce. 

A  white  sauce,  with  grated  horseradish  and  chilli 
vinegar  ;  served  hot. 


SAUCES  303 

Sauce  supreme.  Supreme  sauce. 

A  high  class  white  sauce,  made  from  chicken  broth 
thickened  with  Qgg  yolks,  cream  and  fresh  butter  ;  a 
garniture  of  sliced  truffles  and  mushrooms  is  added, 
according  to  the  requirement  of  the  dish  it  is  served 
with. 

Sauce  Tartare.  Tartar  sauce. 

A  stiff  mayonnaise  sauce,  mixed  with  French 
mustard,  jQnely  chopped  chives,  spring  onions,  tarragon 
and  chervil  leaves,  gherkins,  capers  and  parsley. 

Sauce  Texieime.  Texas  sauce. 

A  kind  of  curry  sauce,  with  a  little  saffron,  chopped 
parsley,  lemon  juice,  finished  with  fresh  butter  as  a 
liaison.     Served  with  meat  or  fish  dishes. 

Sauce  tomate.  Tomato  sauce. 

Puree  of  tomatoes,  with  a  little   brown  sauce  and 

meat   glaze ;  flavoured  with  aromatic   herbs,    shallots, 
and  a  little  sugar. 

Sauce  tortue.  Turtle  sauce. 

A  brown  sauce,  made  from  turtle  broth,  with  finely 
chopped  shallots,  a  little  anchovy  paste,  lemon  juice, 
sherry,  and  finely  chopped  lemon  rind ;  seasoned  with 
Cayenne  pepper. 

Sauce  universelle.  Universal  sauce. 

A  highly  spiced  cold  sauce,  for  cold  meats,  &c.,  pre- 
pared with  mushroom  ketchup,  port  wine,  shallot  vinegar, 
ground  spice,  mace,  Cayenne  pepper  and  essence  of 
anchovies. 

Sauce  veloute.  Veloute  sauce. 

A  richly  seasoned  white  sauce,  prepared  with  chicken 
or  veal  broth,  flavoured  with  savoury  herbs  and  soup 
vegetables.  When  finished  it  should  be  as  smooth  as 
velvet :  hence  the  name  veloute  (velvet-like). 

Sauce  Venitienne.  Venetian  sauce. 

A  white  fish  sauce,  thickened  with  a  liaison  of  yolks 


304  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

of  eggs  and  fresh  butter,  mixed  with  chopped  parsley. 
A  little  lemon  juice  and  a  garniture  of  stewed  button 
mushrooms  are  added  before  serving. 

Sauce  vert-pre.  Green  herb  sauce. 

A  sauce  composed  of  parboiled  spinach,  parsley, 
chives  and  tarragon  (equal  quantities  of  each),  worked 
with  fresh  butter,  passed  through  a  sieve,  and  mixed 
wdth  ravigote  sauce.  Served  with  fish,  vegetables,  or 
salads. 

Sauce  Villeroi.  Yilleroi  sauce. 

A  white  sauce,  with  finely  chopped  cooked  ham  and 
tongue,  finished  with  a  liaison  of  egg  yolks  and  fresh 
butter. 

Sauce  vinaigrette.  Vinaigrette  sauce. 

A  cold  sauce,  prepared  with  salad  oil,  A-inegar, 
essence  of  anchovy,  chopped  shallots,  parsley,  cher\41 
and  gherkins  ;  seasoned  with  pepper  and  salt.  Served 
with  calf's  head,  seakale,  asparagus,  &c. 

Sauce  verjus.  Verjuice  sauce. 

Espagnole  sauce,  with  mashed  unripe  green  grapes, 
cooked  in  broth,  reduced  with  a  little  sherry,  and  finished 
with  fresh  butter.    Served  with  roast  ducks  or  pork. 

Sauce  cVYork.  Yorkshire  sauce. 

Consists  of  Espagnole  sauce,  finely  shred  orange 
rind,  red  currant  jelly,  port  wine,  orange  juice,  and  a 
little  ground  cinnamon.  Served  with  boiled  ham  or 
pickled  pork. 


EIPICES       OTJXjIIT^ft.II^ES. 


SENN'S    AROMATIC    SEASONING 

Is  the  j)erfection  of  Tonic  Condiments,  and  stands  unsurpaysed 
for  improving  the  flavour  of  Soups,  Entrees,  and  Sauces.  Can 
be  obtained  of  high-class  Grocers  and  Italian  Warehousemen. 


ENTREMETS — SWEETS 


305 


EKTREMETS  DE  BOTJCETJR— SWEET  DISHES. 


Poudings. 

Ponding  an  cliocolat. 
Pouding  an  pain  noir. 
Po uding  d ' abrico ts . 
Pouding  aux  amandes. 
Ponding  de  cabinet. 
Pouding  de  ijommes. 
Pouding  de  poiumes  de  terre. 
Pouding  au  riz. 
Poiiding  de  riz  aux  raisins. 
Pouding  de  macarons. 
Pouding  de  niarrons. 
Pouding  de  gingembre. 
Pouding  d  Venfer. 
Pouding  de  riz  froid. 
Pouding  de  riz  aux  abricots. 
Pouding  de  riz  aux  ananas. 

Pouding  de  riz  froid  aux 

leeches. 
Pouding  de  nouilles. 
Pouding  froid  d' ananas. 
Pouding  de  tajnoca. 
Pouding    bavaroise    aux 

nouilles. 
Pouding  de  sagon. 
Pouding  de  vermicelle. 
Ponding  froid  d  la  iwin- 

taniere. 
Pouding  roule  a  VAnglaise. 
Pouding  aux  oranges, 
Pouding  au  citron. 
Pouding  aux  cerises. 
Po2iding  de  loain  beurre  a 

Vanglaise. 


Puddings. 

Chocolate  pudding. 

Bro'svn  bread  pudding. 

Apricot  pudding. 

Almond  pudding. 

Cabinet  pudding. 

Apple  pudding. 

Potato  pudding. 

Rice  pudding. 

Rice  and  raisin  pudding. 

Macaroon  pudding. 

Chestnut  pudding. 

Ginger  pudding. 

Plum  pudding,  burning. 

Cold  rice  pudding. 

Rice  pudding  with  apricots. 

Rice  pudding  with  pine- 
apples. 

Cold  rice  pudding  with 
peaches. 

Noodle  pudding. 

Cold  pineapple  pudding. 

Tapioca  pudding. 

Blancmanger  and  noodle 
pudding. 

Sago  pudding. 

Vermicelli  jpudding. 

Cold  strawberry  cream  pud- 
ding. 

Rolled  jam  pudding. 

Orange  pudding. 

Lemon  pudding. 

Cherry  pudding. 

Bread  and  butter  pudding. 


306  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

Ponding  froid  d  la  Poynare.  Cold  apricot  pudding. 
Pouding  a  la  vanille.  Vanilla  pudding. 

Pouding  a  Vananas.  Pineapple  pudding. 

Pouding  amandes  a  V orange.  Almond     pudding    with 

orange  flavour. 
Pouding  a  la  Bocheford.       Cold  vanilla  pudding. 
Pouding  de  groseilles  vertes.  Green  gooseberry  pudding. 
Pouding  degroseilles  noires.  Black  currant  pudding. 
Pouding  aux  noix  de  coco.    Cocoanut  pudding. 
Pouding  a  la  college.  College  pudding. 

Pouding  defigues.  Fig  pudding. 

Pouding  de  reine- Claudes.    Greengage  pudding. 
Pouding  au  macaroni.  Macaroni  pudding. 

Pouding  de  raisins.  Raisin  pudding. 

Pouding  souffle.  Souffle  pudding. 

Pouding  de  Noel.  Christmas  pudding. 

Pouding  cm  lait.  Milk  pudding. 

Pouding  cl  la  Victoria.         Victoria  pudding. 

Prepared  with  chopped  marrow,  flour,  apples,  eggs, 
milk,  sugar,  apricot  jam,  bread  crumbs,  and  dried  fruit. 

Potiding  a  VAlle^nande.        German  pudding. 

Made  from  small  pieces  of  cake,  sweet  almonds, 
grated  lemon  rind,  eggs,  sugar,  and  Madeira  wine. 

Pouding  a  la  Cohourg.  Coburg  pudding. 

A  kind  of  thick  custard,  with  brandy  flavouring, 
baked  in  cups. 

Pouding  Prince  Albert.        Prince  Albert  pudding. 

Made  from  eggs,  butter,  flour,  sugar  and  lemon 
rind  ;  mould  lined  with  slices  and  stars  of  citron  peel, 
angelica,  cherries,  &c.,  to  garnish. 

Pouding  Albemarle.  Albemarle  pudding. 

Made  from  almonds,  eggs,  sugar,  and  vanilla  flavour- 
ing ;  baked  in  tin  moulds. 

Pouding  a  la  bachelier.         Bachelor's  pudding. 

Made   from   eggs,   finely  minced   apples,   currants, 


ENTREMETS — SWEETS  307 

Thread  crumbs,  lemon  rind,  grated  nutmeg  and  sugar, 
steamed  in  moulds. 

Pouding  d  la  chcmcelier.       Chancellor's  pudding. 

A  boiled  custard  pudding,  with  sponge  cakes,  ratafias 
and  dried  fruit ;  the  mould  is  garnished  with  candied 
fruit.    Served  hot  with  wine  sauce. 

Ponding  d  la  Siciliemie.       Sicilian  pudding. 

A  pudding  made  from  rice,  fruits,  eggs,  cream,  and 
sugar. 

Pouding  d  la  imsteur.  Curate's  pudding. 

A  mixture  of  egg  custard  and  mashed  potato,  flavoured 
with  sugar  and  lemon  ;  baked  in  cups  in  the  oven. 

Pouding  Delaware.  Delaware  pudding. 

A  kind  of  suet  pudding,  filled  with  cored  apples, 
currants,  orange  peel,  etc. ;  steamed  in  cloth. 

Pouding  d  VImi:)eratrice.      Empress  pudding. 

A  kind  of  custard,  baked  in  cups,  served  hot  with 
spiced  sweet  sauce. 

Pouding  Gmevoise.  Geneva  pudding. 

Stewed  rice  and  apple  pudding,  baked  in  the  oven. 

Pouding  d  la  minute.  Hasty  pudding. 

Usually  made  with  eggs,  milk,  flour,  and  sugar,  well 
mixed,  baked  in  a  tin  mould;  a  little  jam  or  marmalade 
is  put  at  the  bottom  of  the  mould. 

Pouding  d  Vltalienne.  Italian  pudding. 

A  kind  of  bread  pudding,  with  cream,  apples,  and 
dried  fruit ;  baked  in  a  mould  lined  with  puff  paste. 

Pouding  d  la  Nesselrode.      Nesselrode  pudding. 

A  kind  of  cold  chestnut  pudding,  flavoured  with 
maraschino  liqueur ;  garnished  with  whipped  cream  and 
crystallised  cherries. 

Poudi7ig  d  V Orleans.  Orleans  pudding. 

A  cold  custard  or  blancmange,  mixed  with  crumbled 


308  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

biscuits   and   finely   cut    candied  peel,    set    in    fancy 
moulds. 

Ponding  a  la  Prince   de     Prince  of  Wales  pudding. 

Galles. 

Made  from  yolks  of  eggs,  sugar,  lemon  rind,  almonds, 
flour  and  butter ;   baked  in  fancy  tin  mould. 

Ponding  d  la  Saxonne.  Saxon  pudding. 

A  kind  of  brown-bread  pudding,  with  ground  almonds 
and  crystallised  fruit. 

Souffles  et  Omelettes.  Souffles  and  Omelets. 

Souffle  au  cacao.  Cocoa  souffle. 

Souffle  au  cafe.  Coffee  souffle. 

Souffle  an  chocolat.  Chocolate  souffle. 

Souffle  aux  ainandes.  Almond  souffle. 

Souffle    aux    avelines  ina-  Souffle  of  burnt  sugar  fil- 

linees.  berts. 

Souffle  dla fecule  de pommes  Potato  flour  souffle. 

de  terre. 
Sotcffle  a  la  fecuJe  de  riz.       Rice  flour  souffle. 
Souffle  cmxf raises  en  caisses.  Strawberry  souffle  in  cases. 
Souffle  a  la  minute.  Hasty  souffle. 

Souffle  a  la  polenta.  Maize  flour  souffle. 

Souffle  a  V orange.  Orange  souffle. 

Souffle  au  citron.  Lemon  souffle. 

Souffle  au  pain  his.  Brown  bread  souffle. 

Souffle  au  p)onche.  Punch  souffle. 

Souffle  au  riz.  Rice  souffle. 

Souffle  a  la  semoule.  Semolina  souffle. 

Souffle  au  tapioca.  French  tapioca  souffle. 

Souffle  a  Vorge.  Barley  flour  souffle. 

Souffle  aux  abricots.  Apricot  souffle. 

Omelette  souffle  aux  peclies.  Souffle  omelet  flavoured  with 

peaches. 
Omelette  souffle  au  hirsch.    Souffle  omelet  flavoured  with 

kirschwasser. 
Omelette  souffle  aux  confi-  Souffle  omelet  with  fruit  jam. 
tures. 


ENTREMETS — SWEETS  •  309 

Omelette  souffle  d  la  sur-  Surprise     souffle     (omelets 
prise.  with  ice  cream  in  centre). 

Omelette  souffle  a  la  van  Hie.  Souffle  omelet  with  vanilla 

flavour. 

Omelette     souffle    a    Veau  Souffle  omelet  with  orange- 
cle  fleurs  cVoranger.  flower  water  flavour. 

Omelette  souffle  auchocolat.  Souffle  omelet   with  choco- 
late flavour. 

Omelette   souffle   aux    ins-  Souffle     omelet      flavoured 
taches.  with  pistachio  kernels. 

Omelette  au  confiture.  Jam  omelet. 

Omelette  aux  ahricots.  Apricot  omelet. 

Omelette  au  rhum.  Rum  omelet. 

Omelette  a  la  hourgeoise.      Pancakes. 

Oriielette  au  four.  Sugar  pancakes   (baked  in 

oven). 

Omelette  aux  framhoises.      Raspberry  omelet. 

Pannequets  d  la  vanille.       Vanilla  pancakes. 

Panneguets  aux /raises.        Strawberry  pancakes. 

Pannequets  aux  framboises.  RasTgherry  pancakes. 

Pannequets  aux  confitures.  Jam  pancakes. 

Pannequets  au  cacao.  Cocoa  pancakes. 

Pancakes  made  in  the  ordinary  way  with  a  little  of 

Van  Houten's  cocoa  and  crushed  macaroons  mixed  with 

the  batter  ;  rolled,  dusted  with  sugar,  and  served  with  a 

sauce  made  of  1  oz.  of  Van  Houten's  cocoa,  2  oz.  sugar,  1 

pint  of  boiling  milk,  and  1  egg  well  beaten  ;  stirred  over 

the  fire  until  it  thickens. 

Pannequets  d  la  Mancelle.  Pancakes,  Mancelle  style. 

Thin,  slightly  browned  pancakes,  spread  over  with 
some  sweetened  chestnut  puree  mixed  with  some 
maraschino,  rolled  up,  dusted  with  sugar,  and  glazed  in 
a  hot  oven. 

Gateaux.  Cakes. 

Gdteaiimondaminaiimoha.  Cornflour  cake  with  mocha 

icing. 
Gateau  de  noce  {mariage).   Wedding  (bride)  cake. 


310 


PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 


Gateau  aux  raisins. 

Plum  cake. 

Gclteau  an  Mad  ere. 

Madeira  cake. 

Gateau  aux  amandes. 

Almond  cake. 

Gateau  aux  pommes. 

Apple  cake. 

Gateau  a  la  canneUe. 

Cinnamon  cake. 

Gateau  au  citron. 

Lemon  cake. 

Gateau  aux  noix  de  coco. 

Cocoanut  cake. 

Gateau  aux  dattes. 

Date  cake. 

Gateau  Genoise. 

Genoa  cake. 

Gateau  au  miel. 

Honey  cake. 

Gateau  au  cjingemhre. 

Ginger  cake. 

Gateau  a  la  vanille. 

Vanilla  cake. 

Gateau  a  V orange. 

Orange  cake. 

Gateau  de  Noel. 

Yule  cake. 

Biscuit  de  Savoie. 

Rich  French  cake  with  lemon 

flavouring. 

Biscuit  Genoise. 

French  flat  cake. 

Gateau  feuillete. 

Puff  paste  cake. 

Meringues. 

Meringues. 

Patisserie,  &c. 

Pastry,  &c. 

Baba  au  rhum. 

Baba  or   Polish    cake  with 

rum  syrup. 

Dames  d'honneur. 

Maids  of  honour. 

Dariole  a  la  creme. 

French  cream  tart. 

Flans  aux  abricots. 

Apricot  flans.* 

Flans  a  la  creme  auxpeclies.  Peach  flans  with  cream. 
Flans  a  la  creme  au  maras-  Maraschino  cream  flans. 

q^idn. 
Flans  a  la  creme  au  citron.  Lemon  cream  flans. 
Flans  cl  la  creme  a  V orange.  Orange  cream  flans. 


Cherry  flans. 
Fruit  flans. 
de  Mixed  fruit  flans. 


Flans  aux  cerises. 
Flans  aux  fruits 
Flans   a   la   macedoine 

fruits. 
Flans  aux  f raises. 
Flans  aux  framhoises. 
Flans  aux  poires. 

*  Flans  are  small  round  open  tarts 


Strawberry  flans. 
Raspberry  flans. 
Pear  flans. 


ENTREMETS — SWEETS 


311 


Flans  mix  leeches. 
Flans  aux  pomvies. 
Gaiifres  hollandaises. 
Gimhlettes  cle  peches. 
Savarin  au  rlmm. 

Tartes  (tourtes). 
Tartes  aux  fruits. 
Tarte  aux  abricots. 
Tarte  aux  cerises. 
Tarte  aux  fraises. 
Tarte  aux  framhoises. 
Tarte  aux  groseilles  no  ires. 
Tarte  aux  jjommes. 
Tarte  aux  groseilles  vertes. 
Meringues  a  la  creme. 

Meringues  glac&s. 

Tarte    aux    groseilles    et 

framhoises. 
Tarte  aux  inunes. 
Tourte  a  Vorange. 
Tourte  au  rhum. 
Tourte  aux  fruits. 
Tourte  aux  marrons. 
Tourte  au  jmnch. 
Tourte  de  biscuits. 
Tourte  de  noix. 
Tourte  au  chocolat. 
Tourte  Portugaise. 
Tourte  pain  his. 
Tourte  a  la  sahleuse. 
Tourte  au  citron. 
Tourte  a  la  rliuharhe. 
Tartelettes  de  fruits. 
Tartelettes  de  raisins. 
Tartelettes  de  pavots. 
Tartelettes  de  fromage. 
Tartelettes  de' framhoises. 


Peach  flans. 

Apple  flans. 

Dutch  cream  wafers. 

Peach  cakes. 

A    light    yeast   cake  with 

rum  syrup. 
Tarts  and  pies. 
Fruit  tarts  or  fruit  pies. 
Apricot  tart. 
Cherry  tart. 
Strawberry  tart. 
Raspberry  tart. 
Black  currant  tarfc. 
Apple  tart. 
Gooseberry  tart. 
Meringues     with    whipped 

cream. 
Meringues  with  ice  cream. 
Currant  and  raspberry  tart. 

Plum  tart. 
Orange  tart. 
Rum  tart. 
Open  fruit  tart. 
Chestnut  tart. 
Punch  tart 
Biscuit  tart. 
Nut  tart. 
Chocolate  tart. 
Portuguese  tart. 
Brown  bread  tart. 
Sponge  cake  tart. 
Lemon  tart. 
Rhubarb  tart. 
Fruit  tartlets. 
Currant  tartlets. 
Poppy  tartlets. 
Cheesecakes. 
Raspberry  tartlets. 


312  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

Tartelettes  de  f raises.  Strawberry  tartlets. 

Tartelettes  de  bergamottes.   Pear  tartlets. 

Tartelettes    a    la    creme      Tartlets  with  whipped  cream. 

fouettee, 
Tartelettes   a  la  picree  de  Tartlets  with  apple  puree. 

2)0jnmes. 
Tartelettes   a  la  puree  de  Tartlets  with  peach  pur^e. 

peclies. 
Tartelettes  de  cannelle.         Cinnamon  tartlets. 
Tartelettes     de    groseilles  Gooseberry  tartlets. 

rouges. 
Tartelettes  a  Vananas.  Pineapple  tartlets. 

Charlottes.  Charlottes. 

Charlotte  a  la  Plombiere.     Plombiere  charlotte. 

Charlotte  mould  lined  with  finger  biscuits,  filled 
with  vanilla  cream  ice,  mixed  with  ground  almonds, 
whipped  cream,  crystallised  fruits  cut  up  finely,  and  a 
little  kirsch  ;  set  to  freeze,  and  served  on  folded  napkins. 

Charlotte  glacee  a  la  Iced  charlotte,  Medicis  style. 
Medicis. 
Charlotte  mould  lined  with  finger  biscuits,  filled 
with  chocolate  (Van  Houten's  cocoa)  ice-cream,  set  to 
freeze,  and  served  on  folded  napkin  ;  the  top  being 
garnished  with  groups  of  preserved  chestnuts  and  fruits. 

Charlotte     glacee     a     la    Iced    charlotte,    Florentine 
Florentine.  style. 

Charlotte  mould  lined  with  finger  biscuits,  filled 
with  orange  water-ice  mingled  with  whipped  cream;  set 
to  freeze,  and  served  on  folded  napkin. 

Charlotte  a  la  Busse.  Russian  charlotte. 

Vanilla  cream  blancmange  lined  with  finger  biscuits. 

Charlotte  de  pommes.  Apple  charlotte. 

Charlotte  de  poires.  Pear  charlotte. 

Charlotte  aux  marrons.  Chestnut  charlotte. 

Charlotte  a  la  Chantilly.  Vanilla  cream  charlotte. 


ENTREMETS — SWEETS 


313 


Charlotte  de  melo7is. 
Charlotte  aux  macarons. 
Charlotte  de  fruit  d  Vim- 
periale. 

Beignets,  &c. 

Beignets  d' ananas. 
Beignets  d'abricots, 
Beignets  Berlinois. 
Beignets  de  cerises. 
Beignets  aux  nouilles. 
Beignets  de  fra7igipa7ie. 
Beignets  aux  f raises. 
Beignets  aux  marrons. 
Beignets  a  Vorange. 
Beignets  de  pommes. 
Beignets  de  peches. 
Beignets  aux  prunes. 
Beignets  de  coings. 
Beignets  de  poires. 
Beignets  de  semoule.    . 
Beignets     souffles     a     la 

vanille. 
Beignets  de  reine- Claudes. 
Beignets  de  riz. 
Beignets  Viennois. 
Beignets  a  la  Portugaise. 

A  kind  of  rice   croquets 
filled  in  centre  with  orange 

Beig7iets  a  la  creme. 
Beignets  de  noix  de  coco. 
Cannelons  aux  /raises. 
Cannelons  aux  abricots. 
Cannelons  a    la  creme  de 

Pithiviers. 
Croquettes    de     riz    d    la 

vanille. 
Croquettes     de     riz    aux 

f raises. 


Melon  charlotte. 
Macaroon  charlotte. 
Fruit  charlotte  with  cham- 
pagne sauce. 

Fritters,  &c. 

Pineapple  fritters. 
Apricot  fritters. 
Berlin  fritters. 
Cherry  fritters. 
Noodle  fritters. 
Macaroon  fritters. 
Strawberry  fritters. 
Chestnut  fritters. 
Orange  fritters. 
Apple  fritters. 
Peach  fritters. 
Plum  or  prune  fritters. 
Quince  fritters. 
Pear  fritters. 
Semolina  fritters. 
Vanilla  souffle  fritters. 

Greengage  fritters. 

Rice  fritters. 

Vienna  fritters. 

Portuguese  fritters. 

,  flavoured   with  cinnamon, 

marmalade. 

Custard  fritters. 
Cocoanut  fritters. 
Strawberry  cannelons. 
Apricot  cannelons. 
Almond  cream  cannelons. 

Vanilla  rice  croquets. 

Rice   croquets   with   straw- 
berry jam. 


314  PEACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

Croquettes  de  semoule  aux  Semolina  croquets  with 
f raises.  strawberry  jam. 

Croquettes  de  riz  aux  Rice  croquets  with  peach 
l)cclies.  jam. 

Croquettes deriz a  Vana7ias.  Rice  croquets  with  pine- 
apple sauce. 

Croquettes  de  vermicelle.      Vermicelli  croquets. 

Balles  de  neige.  Snowball  fritters. 

Pain  frits  au  vin  rouge.       Fried   milk  roll-slices   with 

claret  sauce. 

Fruits  au  riz,  croutes,  &c.  Fruits  with  rice,  crusts,  &c. 

Ahricots  au  riz.  Apricots  with  rice. 

Ahricots  au  riz  meringue.     Apricots    with   rice    merin- 
gues. 
Pechcs  au  riz.  Peaches  with  rice. 

Pomines  au  riz.  Apples  with  rice. 

Beine-Claudes  au  riz.  Greengages  with  rice. 

Poires  au  riz.  Pears  with  rice. 

Biz  a  la  Conde.  Rice  with  pears. 

Biz  au  chocolat.  Rice  with  chocolate  cream. 

Biz  au  lait.  Rice    cooked    in   milk   and 

sugar. 
Pommes  au  riz  meringuee.   Apples  with  rice  meringued. 
Ahricots  a  la  Colbert.  Apricots,  Colbert  style. 

Preserved  firm  apricots  (halves),  drained,  filled  with 
rice  cooked  in  milk,  sweetened  and  flavoured  with 
vanilla,  coated  with  reduced  apricot  marmalade,  dipped 
in  beaten  egg,  rolled  in  pulverised  macaroons,  fried 
slightly  brown  in  clarified  butter.  Dished  up  on  rounds  of 
fried  bread  made  to  adhere  to  the  dish  with  a  little  mar- 
malade, and  sauced  over  with  a  thick  apricot  sauce. 

Pommes  a  la  Conde.  Apples,  Conde  style. 

Pared  apples,  cored,  trimmed,  ranged  in  a  buttered 
sautoir,  sprinkled  with  powdered  sugar,  lemon  juice, 
and  oiled  butter  ;  cooked  in  the  oven.  Dished  up  on  a 
layer  of  rice  ornamented  with  fancy  cut  pieces  of 
angelica,  crystallised  cherries,  raisins  and  almonds,  and 
served  with  apple  syrup. 


ENTREMETS SWEETS  315 

Pommes  d  la  Diichesse.        Apples,  Ducliesse  style. 

Peeled  apples,  scooped  out  in  small  rounds,  cooked  in 
syrup,  dressed  on  a  layer  of  apple  marmalade  orna- 
mented with  small  sticks  of  angelica  in  each  round  of 
apples.    Served  with  a  well-reduced  apple  syrup. 

Pommes  roties   d  la  Baked  apples,  Polish  style. 

Polo7iaise. 
Pared  and  cored  apples,  cut  crosswise  in  thin  slices, 
ranged  on  a  layer  of  marmalade  on  a  baking-dish, 
masked  with  well-reduced  syrup,  sprinkled  with  crushed 
macaroons,  ground  cinnamon  and  sugar.  Baked  in  a 
moderate  oven  and  served  in  the  baking-dish. 

Pommes  d  la  Portugaise.      Apples,  Portuguese  style. 

Pared  and  cored  apples,  rubbed  over  with  lemon  juice, 
stewed  in  syrup, with  maraschino  liqueur ;  holes  in  apples 
filled  with  red  currant  jelly,  with  a  crystallised  cherry 
over  top.      Served  with  the  syrup. 

Pains  cVabricots  an  marasqidn. 
Preserved  apricots  mixed  with  a  little  maraschino 
liqueur,  lemon  juice,  powdered  sugar  and  some  gelatine 
dissolved  in  water;  passed  through  a  fine  sieve,  set  on 
ice  until  it  thickens,  poured  into  moulds,  and  served  the 
same  as  jellies. 

Croutes  aux  fruits. 

Compote  of  fruit  dressed  on  fried  cake  or  bread  crusts 
or  croutons,  garnished  with  dried  fruit,  angelica,  cherries, 
almonds,  raisins,  etc.,  and  sauced  over  with  a  syrup. 

CroHtes  aux  ahricots.  Apricot  croutes. 

CroMes  aux  pommes.  Apple  croutes. 

Croutes  a  Vorange.  Orange  croutes. 

CroMes  aux  cerises.  Cherry  croutes. 

CroMes  aux  peches.  Peach  croutes. 

CroMes  auxframhoises.        Raspberry  croutes. 
CroMes  aux  /raises.  Strawberry  croutes. 

Croiltes  a  la  Normande. 
Pared,  cored,  and  quartered  apples,  stewed  in  syrup, 
flavoured  with  butter,  lemon  juice  and  sherry,  dressed 

20 


816 


PEACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 


on  fried  bread  croutes  (crusts),  coated  with  dissolved 
peach  jam.     Served  with  hot  syrup. 

CroMes  au  Mad  ere. 
Various  kinds  of  compote  of  fruit,  dressed  on  fried 
bread  or  cake  crusts,  and  served   with  hot  fruit  syrup 
flavoured  with  Madeira  wine. 


Blancmangers  et  Cremes. 

Bavaroise  aux  amandes. 
Bavaroise  au  cafe. 
Bavaroise  a  la  Praslin. 

Bavaroise  au  citron. 
Bavaroise  a  Vorange. 

Bavaroise  aux  noix  de  coco. 
Bavaroise  aux  /raises. 
Bavaroise  aux  ahricots. 
Bavaroise  aux  framboises. 
Bavaroise  an  chocolat. 
Bavaroise  au  melon. 
Bavaroise  au  cacao. 
Blancmanger  a  la  vanille. 
Blancmanger  d  la  cr^me. 
Blancmanger  aux  instaclies 
Blancmanger  aux  avelines. 
Creme  au  cafe. 
Crdme  au  chocolat. 
Crdme  a  la  vanille. 
Creme  au  cacao. 
Creme  f rang aise  au  the. 
Creme  frangaise  au  caf&. 
Crdme  aux  noix  de  peches. 
Cr^me  au  caramel. 


Blancmanges  and  Creams. 

Almond  blancmange. 
Coffee  cream  or  blancmange. 

Burnt    almond     cream    or 
blancmange. 

Lemon  blancmange. 

Orange     cream     or    blanc- 
mange. 

Cocoanut  blancmange. 

Strawberry  blancmange. 

Apricot  blancmange. 

Raspberry  blancmange. 

Chocolate  blancmange. 

Melon  blancmange. 

Cocoa  blancmange. 

Vanilla  blancmange. 

Cream  blancmange. 

.  Pistachio  kernel  blancmange. 

Filbert  blancmange. 

Coffee  cream. 

Chocolate  cream. 

Vanilla  cream. 

Cocoa  cream. 

French  tea  cream. 

French  coffee  crearn. 

French  peach  kernel  creara. 

Caramel  cream. 


Compotes  de  Fruits. 

Compote  d' ahricots. 
Compote  de  pommes. 


Stewed  Fruits. 

Stewed  apricots. 
Stewed  apples. 


ENTREMETS — SWEETS 


317 


Compote  de  ronces. 
Compote  de  mirtilles. 
Compote  d'aireUes. 
Compote  de  cerises. 
Compote     de     groseilles 

blanches. 
Compote  de  groseilles  rouges. 
Compote  die  marrons. 
Compote  de  dattes. 
Compote  de  reine-Claiules. 
Compote  de  groseilles  vertes. 
Compote  d' epines-vinettes. 
Compote  de  figues. 
Compote  de  verjus. 
Compote  de  grattes-culs. 
Compote  de  melons. 
Covipote  de  mirabelles. 
Compote  de  milres. 
Compote  de  poires. 
Compote  de  peckes. 
Cotnpote  d' oranges. 
Compote  de  prunes. 
Compote  de  pruneaux. 
Compote  de  coings. 
Compote  deframboises. 
Compote  de  rhubarbe. 
Compote  de /raises. 
Compote  d' ananas. 


Stewed  brambleberries. 
Stewed  bilberries. 
Stewed  cranberries. 
Stewed  cherries. 
Stewed  white  currants. 


Stewed 
Stewed 
Stewed 
Stewed 
Stewed 
Stewed 
Stewed 
Stewed 
Stew^ed 
Stewed 
Stewed 
Stewed 
Stewed 
Stewed 
Stewed 
Stewed 
Stewed 
Stewed 
Stewed 
Stewed 
Stewed 
Stewed 


red  currants. 

chestnuts. 

dates. 

greengages. 

gooseberries. 

barberries. 

figs. 

grapes. 

hips. 

melon. 

mirabelles. 

mulberries. 

pears. 

peaches. 

oranges. 

prunes. 

plums. 

quinces. 

raspberries. 

rhubarb. 

strawberries. 

pineapples. 


Gelees,  &c. 

Gelee  aux  amandes. 
Gelee  de  pommes. 
Gelee  de  bigarade. 
Gelee  aux  ahricots. 
Gelee  d'epines-vinettes. 
Gelee  de  groseilles  noires. 
Gelee  def raises. 


Jellies,  &c.* 

Almond  jelly. 
Apple  jelly. 
Bitter  orange  jelly. 
Apricot  jelly. 
Barberry  jelly. 


Black  currant  jelly. 
Strawberry  jelly. 

* "  Isinglassine "  is  an  excellent  substitute  for  gelatine  ;   it 
requires  no  soaking,  and  makes  brilliant  jellies. 


318 


PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 


Gelee  de  mentlie. 
Gelee  de  pied  de  veau. 
Gelee  au  marasquin. 
Gelee  au  cafe. 
Gelee  au  the  vert. 
Gelee  au  curacao. 


Mint  jelly. 
Calf's  foot  jelly. 
Maraschino  jelly. 
Coffee  jelly. 
Green  tea  jelly. 
Curacao  jelly. 


Gelee  de  groseilles  rouges.     Red  currant  jelly. 


Gelee  aux  airelles. 
Gelee  de  groseilles  vertes. 
Gelee  d' ananas. 
Gelee  d'anisette. 
Gelee  de  citron. 
Gelee  de  raisins. 
Gelee  d' oranges. 
Gelee  de  mandarines. 
Gelee  au  Madere. 
Gelee  de  hriignon. 
Gelee  de  framhoises. 
GeUe  au  vin  du  Bhin. 


Cranberry  jelly. 
Gooseberry  jelly. 
Pineapple  jelly. 
Aniseed  jelly. 
Lemon  jelly. 
Grape  jelly. 
Orange  jelly. 
Mandarin  jelly. 
Madeira  wine  jelly. 
Nectarine  jelly. 
Raspberry  jelly. 
Rhine  wine  jelly. 


Gelee  auvin  de  C/tam^a^^ze. Champagne  jelly. 


Gelee  de  nefle. 
Gelee  a  la  vanille. 
Gelee  au  rhicm. 
Gelee  au  kirsch. 
Gelee  au  vin  d' Oporto. 
GeUe  aux  poires. 
Gelee  a  la  Busse. 


Medlar  jelly. 
Vanilla  jelly. 
Rum  jelly. 
Kirsch  liqueur  jelly. 
Port  wine  jelly. 
Pear  jelly. 


Russian  jelly. 

Sweet  jelly  beaten  to  a  creamy  froth,  and  set  to  cool 
in  a  mould. 

Gelee  imnachee.  Mixed  jelly. 

Two  or  three  different  kinds  of  jelly  appropriately 
flavoured,  set  on  one  another  in  the  same  mould. 

Gelee  a  la  macedoine  de  Jelly  with  mixed  fruits. 

fruits. 
Gelee  fouettee  au  jus    de  Whipped  fruit  juice  jelly 

fruits. 
Suedoise  de  pommes  a  la  Jelly  with  apples. 

gelee. 
GeUe  de  coing.  Quince  jelly. 


ENTREMETS SWEETS  319 

Cremes  fouettees  pour  Whipped  Creams  for 

Meringues,  Cornets,  &c.        Meringues,  Cornets,  &c. 

Creme  fouettee  d  la  vanille.  Whipped  cream  with  vanilla 

flavour. 

Creme  fouettee  a  la  cannelle.  Whipped  cream  with  cinna- 
mon flavour. 

Creme  fouettee  au  cafe.         Whipped  cream  with  coffee 

flavour. 

Creme  fouettee  aux  f  raises.  Whipped  cream  with  straw- 
berry flavour. 

Creme  fouettee  a  V ananas.  Whipped  cream  with  pine- 
apple flavour. 

Creme  fouettee  au  chocolat.  Whipped  cream  with  choco- 
late flavour. 

Creme  fouettee  aux  amandes.  Whipped  cream  with  ground 

almonds. 

Creme  fouettee  auxnoisettes.  Whipped  cream  with  ground 

hazelnuts  or  filberts. 

Glaces  (Cremes).  Ices  (Creams). 

Glace  dlacremed'amande.  Almond  ice  cream. 
Glace  d  la  creme  de  vanille.  Vanilla  ice  cream. 
Glace  d  la  creme  d'abricot.  Apricot  ice  cream. 
Glace  de  creme  d  la  can-  Cinnamon  ice  cream. 

nelle. 
Glace  d  la  creme  d' ananas.  Pineapple  ice  cream. 
Glace  au  chocolat.  Chocolate  ice. 

Glace  ate  moJca.  Coffee  ice  cream. 

Glace  de  creme  au  cacao.  Cocoa  ice  cream. 
Glace  d  la  creme  de  peches.  Peach  ice  cream. 
Glace  de  creme  au  maras-  Maraschino  ice  cream. 

quin. 
Glace  d  la  creme  de  noyeau.  Noyeau  ice  cream. 
Glace  de  creme  aux  fleurs  Ice   cream   flavoured    with 

d'oranger.  orange  flowers. 

Glace  de  crhne  au  the.  Tea  ice  cream. 

Glace  d  la  creme  de  fram-  Raspberry  ice  cream. 

hoises. 


320  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

GloAie  d  la  creme  cle  viaca-  Macaroon  ice  cream. 

rons. 
Glace  d  la  creme  de  Malaga.  Malaga  wine  ice  cream. 
Glace  d  la  Nesselrode.  Nesselrode  ice. 

Chestnut  puree  ice  cream. 

Glace  a  la  Prince  Pilchler.  Prince  Piickler  ice. 
A  kind  of  chocolate  ice  cream. 

Glace  de  creme  d  Veau  de  Cherry  brandy  ice  cream. 

cerises. 
Glace  d  la  Chateaubriand .   Chateaubriand  ice. 

Vanilla  ice  cream,  mixed  with  crystallised  fruits  cut 
in  fine  strips,  and  w^hipped  cream. 

Glace  Plombiere.  Plombiere  ice. 

Vanilla  ice  cream,  mixed  with  j&nely  ground  almonds 
and  whipped  cream. 

Ponding  glace.  Ice  pudding. 

Vanilla  ice  cream,  mixed  with  coarsely  cut  sponge 
cakes  and  layers  of  crystallised  fruits  ;  flavoured  with 
certain  kinds  of  Hqueurs. 

Pimch  d  la  Bomaine.  Eoman  punch. 

Orange  and  lemon  water-ice,  when  half  frozen, 
mixed  with  a  thick  syrup,  whipped  whites  of  eggs  and 
rum.    Served  in  glasses. 

Glace  au  pain  noir.  Brown  bread  ice  cream. 

Glace  Napolitaine.  Neapolitan  ice. 

Mixed  ice,  two  or  three  distinct  sections.  Served  in 
oblong  slices  or  fancy  shapes. 

Souffles  glaces  d  la  vanille.  Vanilla  ice  cream  soufiles, 

in  cases. 
Souffles  glaces  au  pain  noir. 
Brown  bread  ice  cream  souffles,  frozen  and  served 
in  paper  cases. 

Souffles  glaces  aux  fraises. 
Strawberry  ice  cream  souffles,  frozen  and  served  in 
paper  cases. 


ENTREMETS SWEETS 


321 


Glace  d  la  jajjonaise.  Japanese  ice. 

Vanilla  ice  cream,  mixed  with  brown  bread  crumbs, 
almonds,  and  maraschino  liqueur. 

Glace  a  la  creme  de  noix  Cocoanut  ice  creams. 

de  coco. 

Demi-glace  a  la  creme  de  Gooseberry  fool. 

groseillcs  vertes. 

Bomhe  glacee  d  Vorientale.  Oriental      ice-bomb     (with 

oranges). 

Bomhe  glac&e  aux  ahricots.  Apricot  ice-bomb. 

Biscuits  glacis  d  la  vanille. 
Vanilla  ice-pudding,  mixed,  and  lined  with  biscuits. 

Charlottes  glacees. 
Ice  cream  puddings,  lined  with  finger  biscuits. 


Glaces  de  Fruits. 


Fruit  Water-ices. 


Glace  aux  jjommes. 

Apple  water-ice. 

Glace  d  Vorange. 

Orange  water-ice. 

Glace  aux  jJoires. 

Pear  water-ice. 

Glace  aux  leeches. 

Peach  water-ice. 

Glace  au  citron. 

Lemon  water-ice. 

Glace  aux  abricots. 

Apricot  water-ice. 

Glace  d  V ananas. 

Pineapple  water-ice. 

Glace  aux  cerises. 

Cherry  water-ice. 

Glace  aux  /raises. 

Strawberry  water-ice. 

Glace  aux  framhoises. 

Raspberry  water-ice. 

Glace  aux  mirtilles. 

Bilberry  water-ice. 

Glace  aiix  groseilles. 

Eed  currant  ice. 

Glace  d  la  tutti-frutti. 

Mixed  fruit  water-ice. 

Glace  de  gingemhre. 

Ginger  water-ice. 

Glace  d' epines-vinettes. 

Barberry  water-ice. 

Glace  de  melon. 

Melon  water-ice. 

Glace  mille  fruits. 

Mixed  fruit  water  or  cream 

Glace  en  verres  d  Vorange. 
Sorbet  aux  f raises. 
Ponch  d  la  glace. 


ice. 


Orange  water-ice,  in  glasses. 
Strawberry  ice,  in  glasses. 
Iced  punch. 


322 


PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 


Soi'bet  a2c  vin  de  Bourgog7ie.  BMYgmidy     wine     ice,     in 


Glace  panachee. 
Mousse  *  au  cafe. 
Mousse  aux  f raises. 
Mousse  au  marasqui7i. 
Mousse  aux  framboises. 
Mousse  aux  peches. 
Mousse  au  citron. 
Mousse  a  Vorancje. 


glasses. 
Mixed  ice. 
Coffee  mousse. 
Strawberry  mousse. 
Maraschino  mousse. 
Raspberry  mousse. 
Peach  mousse. 
Lemon  mousse. 
Orange  mousse. 


ENTREMETS   SAVOUREUX,    &C. 

SAVOURY  DISHES,  &c. 

N.B. — A  selection  of  valuable  and  thoroughly 
workable  recipes  has  been  published,  by  the 
author  of  this  work,  for  elegant  and  appetising 
Hors-d'oeuvres,  Sandwiches,  Salads,  Oriental  and 
Savoury  dishes,  price  3s.  6d. 

Savoury  Dishes  of  Fish. 


Beignets  de  poisson. 
Beignets  de  poisson  fimUs. 
Kedgerue  de  poisson. 
Saumon  au  gratin. 
Homard  au  gratin. 
Coquille  de  homard. 
Saumon  fume  a  la  Diahle. 
Crabe  aux  oeufs  a  laDiable. 
Crabe    stir    canapes     d 

VIndienne. 
BavoiXt  de  crabe  a  la  tomate. 


Fish  fritters. 
Smoked  fish  fritters. 
Savoury  kedgeree. 
Salmon,  gratin  style. 
Lobster,  gratin  style. 
Scalloped  lobster. 
Smoked  salmon  devilled. 
Devilled  dressed  crab. 
Canapees  of  curried  crab. 

Savoury  of  crab  with  tomato 
sauce. 


*  Monsse  is  a  light  ice  cream,  prepared  from  syrups,  whipped 
whites  of  eggs,  and  flavouring  according  to  names.  It  is 
j^erved  in  glasses,  or  set  to  freeze  in  moulds ;  in  the  latter  case 
the  moulds  are  lined  with  white  paper. 


SAVOUEEUX SAVOURIES  323 

Savoureux     de     merluche  Savoury  of  smoked  haddock. 

frimee. 
Sardines  aux  ceufs  poches.    Grilled     sardines     with 

poached  eggs. 
Canapes  de  sardines.  Sardine  canapees. 

Sardines  a  la  Provenqale,     Sardines  on  toast  with  egg 

sauce. 
Sardines  a  la  Diable.  Devilled  sardines. 

Croustade  de  sardines  au  Sardine     croustades    with 

fromage.  cheese. 

Croutons      d'anchois     au  Anchovy  fingers  with  cheese. 

fromage. 
Anchois  frits.  Fried  anchovies. 

Croutons     d'anchois     a     English  anchovy  toast. 

rAnglaise. 
Croutons  d'anchois  a  VIn-  Curried  anchovies  on  toast. 

dienne. 
Bisquits aitbeurred' anchois.  Anchovy  paste  biscuits. 
Croutons    d'anchois    aux     Savoury  anchovy  paste   on 

fines  lierhes.  toast. 

Huitres  au  heurre.  Broiled  oysters  in  butter. 

Les  huitres  a  cheval.  Oysters  on  horseback. 

Bonnes -touches  aux  huitres.  Oyster  tit-bits. 
Huitres  snr  pain  grille.        Oysters  on  toast. 
Huitres  frites  a  la  Diable.   Fried  oysters  devilled. 
Huitres  a  V Americaine.        Grilled    oysters,    American 

style. 
Huitres  aux  fines  herbes.      Grilled  oysters  with  savoury 

herbs. 
Huitres  sautees  a  VAmeri-  Broiled    oysters,    American 

caine.  style. 

Bag  out   d' huitres    a   la      Devilled  oyster  stew. 

Diable. 
Croquettes    dliuitres   a  la  Oyster  croquets,  Wellington 

Wellington.  style. 

Bouchees     de    bucardes    a  Cockle    patties,     American 

V  A^nericaine.  style. 

Hareng  fume  d  VEcossaise.  Kippered    herring,    Scotcli 

style. 


324 


PRACTICAL   GASTRONOMY 


Filets    de    harengs  fumes 

au  fromage. 
Beignets  de  filets  de  hareng 

a  V Allemande. 
Laitance  de  cahillaud  fume 

sur  croutons. 
Caviar dePiiissie  en  crepes. 
Caviar    sur  canapes  a    la 

Viable. 
Anchois  farcis. 
Allumettes  d' anchois. 
Canapes  de  tlion  marines. 
Crevettes  d  la  Diable. 
Ecrevisses  a  la  Diable. 
Os  et  laitance  de  maquereau 

d  la  Diable. 
Souffles  d  la  Yarmouth. 


Filleted    kippered    herrings 

with  cheese. 
Fritters  of  kippered  herring 

fillets. 
Smoked  cod's  roe  on  toast. 

Russian  caviare  pancakes. 
Small      caviare     fingers 

devilled. 
Stuffed  anchovies. 
Anchovy  matches. 
Tunny-fish  canapees. 
Devilled  shrimps. 
Devilled  crayfish. 
Devilled  mackerel's  roe  and 

bones. 
Cheese    and    bloater    paste 

souffles. 
Cheese  straws  with  strips  of 

bloater  fillets. 
Cheese  straws  with  anchovy 

fillets. 


Failles  au  Farmesan  d  la 

Yarmouth. 
Failles    au    Farmesan    a 

r  anchois. 

Toasted  bread,  spread  with  anchovy  paste,  cut  into 
small  strips. 

Savoury  Meat  Dishes. 


Fetits  imtes  de  viande  aux 
fines  herbes. 

Moelle    de  boeiif  aux  fines 
herbes. 

Fetites  croustades  de  gibier 
d  la  Cordon  rouge. 

Fetits  souffles  de  gibier. 

Beignets  de  gibier  a  la  Dia- 
ble. 

Bognons  de  mouton  a  VIn- 
dienne. 

Mets  de  viande  d  la  Diable. 


Small  savoury  meat  patties. 

Marrow  savoury. 

Savoury    game    crusts, 

Cordon  rouge  style. 
Small  game  souffles. 
Devilled  game  fritters. 

Grilled  sheep's  kidneys  cur- 
ried. 

Devilled  grilled  meats  and 
bones. 


SAVOUREUX SAVOURIES  325 

Croustades  de  rognons  d  la  Croustades  of  kidneys,  Re- 

Beforme.  form  style. 

Foie  de  volaille  d  la  Diahle.  Devilled  chicken  liver. 
Langue  de  veau  ftimee  d  la  Devilled       smoked       calf's 

Diahle.  tongue. 

CroiUons    de    langue   d   la  Devilled  ox  tongue  on  toast. 

Diahle. 
Beignets  dejamhon.  Ham  fritters. 

Cro'iltons   de  jamhon  d  la    Devilled  ham  on  toast. 

Diahle. 
Bouchees  inqua^ntes.  Savoury  puff -paste  patties. 

Savoury  Dishes  of  Veg^etables. 

Tomates  au  fromage.  Tomatoes  with  cheese. 

Tomates  sur  jjain  grille.  Tomatoes  on  toast. 

Tomates  au  gratin.  Baked  tomatoes,  gratin  style. 

Beignets  de  tomates.  Tomato  fritters. 

Tomates  farcies  d  la  Diahle.  Stuffed  tomatoes  devilled. 

Pommes  de  terre  farcies.  Stuffed  potatoes. 

Coquilles dejpommes deterre.  Potato  scallops. 

Crepes  de 'pommes  de  terre  Potato  pancakes  with  cheese. 

au  fro7nage. 
Pommes  de  terre  farcies  aux  Savoury  potatoes  stuffed. 

fines  herhes. 

Pommes  de  terre  au  kari.  Curried  potatoes. 

Beignets  de  pommes  de  terre.  Potato  fritters. 
Bissoles  de  pommes  de  terre.  Potato  rissoles. 

Pommes  au  kari.  Curried  apples. 

Champignons  en  caisses  d  Devilled  mushrooms  in  cases. 

la  Diahle. 

Champignons  sur  croiltons.  Mushrooms  on  toast. 

Champignons    aux    fines  Savoury  mushrooms. 

lierbes. 

Beignets  d'auhergines  d  la  Devilled  egg-plant  fritters. 

Diahle. 

Aubergines  au  gratin.  Aubergines,    baked,    gratin 

style. 

Concomhre    d    la    maitre  Cucumber,     hotel  -  keeper's 

d' hotel.  way. 


326  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

Concombre  farcie  au  fro-  Savoury  cucumbers  stuffed 

mage.  with  cheese. 

Feves  cle  marais  aux  fines    Savoury  broad  beans. 

herbes. 
LentiUes  en  fricassee  a  la    Devilled      lentil     fricassee, 

Diable.  savoury. 

Choux-fleur  au  Parmesan.   Baked      cauliflower       with 

cheese. 
Topinamboiirs  a  la  Lyon-    Jerusalem    artichokes   with 

naise.  onions. 

Foncls   cV articliauts   a   la    Artichoke  bottoms,    Borde- 

Bordelaise.  laise  style. 

Fonds  d' articliauts  farcis    Stuffed    artichoke    bottoms 

a  la  Diable.  devilled. 

Haricots    verts   aux  fines    Savoury  French  beans. 

herbes. 
Petit  2^0 is  au  jambonsautees. S&Youry  peas  with  ham. 
Petit  i)ois  a  la  laitue  a  la    Savoury  peas  with  lettuce. 

francaise. 
Pointes     d'asperges     aux    Asparagus       points       with 

fines  herbes.  savoury  herbs. 

Celeri  braised  VEspagnole.  Braised  celery, Spanish  style. 
Celeri  a  la  maitre  d'hotel.     Stewed  celery,  hotel-keeper's 

way. 
Salsifis  aux  fines  herbes.        Savoury  salsify. 
Salsifis  frits  d  la  Diable.      Salsify  fritters  devilled. 
Beignets  de  betterave.  Beetroot  fritters. 

Beignets   de    cardons  d  la  Cardoon  fritters  devilled. 

Diable. 
Croutes  aux  truffes.  Truffles  on  toast. 

Truffes  sautees  a  la  metro-  Stewed  truffles   with    fried 

2Jole.  ham  croutons. 

Croustades    de     truffes    a  Truffles    in    crusts,  Itahan 

Vltalienne.  style. 

Truffes  farcies  a  la  Cordon  Stuffed  truffles,  Cordon  rouge 

rouge.  style. 

Pommes  et  'pommes  de  terre  Curried  apples  and  potatoes. 

en  kari. 
Olives  sur  crouto7is    d  la  Devilled  olives  on  toast. 

Diable. 


SAVOUREUX — SAVOURIES 


327 


Pompio7i  d  la  Parmesan.  Fried  pumpkin  with  Par- 
mesan cheese. 

Gnocchi  d  la  Lomhardie.     Small      potato     dumplings 

with  grated  cheese. 

Names  of  Omelets. 

Omelets  are  called  by  the  names  of  certain  ingre- 
dients added  to  flavour  them.  They  can  be  prepared  in 
an  endless  variety  by  the  addition  of  minced  fish, 
meat  or  game  to  the  egg  mixture.  Sauces  are  in  some 
cases  served  with  omelets. 


Omelettes  et  Entremets 
d'(Eufs. 


Omelets  and  Savoury- 
Dishes  of  Egg's. 


Omelette  au  naturel.  Plain  omelet. 

Omelette  aux  fines  lierhes.     Savoury  omelet. 

Oinelette  aux  fines  herbes  d  Savoury     omelet,    Parisian 

la  Parisienne.  style 

Omelette  de  volaille.  Chicken  omelet. 

Omelette  d  la  chasseur.         Savourv  omelet  with  minced 


Omelette 
Omelette 
Omelette 
Oynelette 
Omelette 
Omelette 
Omelette 
Omelette 
Omelette 
Omelette 
Omelette 
Omelette 


au  clievreuil. 
au  caviar, 
aux  truffes. 
aux  monies, 
auxhuitres. 
aux  champignons, 
au  saucisson. 
au  jamhon. 
au  lard, 
aux  crevettes. 
aux  anchois. 
aux  harengs  fumes 


Omelette  d  la  Yarmouth. 

Omelette  aux  lentilles. 
Omelette  de  homard. 


venison. 
Venison  omelet. 
Caviare  omelet. 
Truffle  omelet. 
Mussel  omelet. 
Oyster  omelet. 
Mushroom  omelet. 
Sausage  omelet. 
Ham  omelet. 
Bacon  omelet. 
Shrimp  omelet. 
Anchovy  omelet. 
,  Omelet       with     fillets     of 

kippers. 
Omelet      with      fillets      of 

bloaters. 
Lentil  omelet. 
Lobster  omelet. 


328 


PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 


Omelette  aux  ecrevisses. 
Omelette  aux  olives. 
Omelette  a  la  jardiniere. 

Omelette  aux  tomates. 
Omelette  au  fromage. 
Omelette   aux  ]oommes   de 

terre. 
Omelette  aux  bucardes. 
Omelette  aux  clames. 
Omelette  au  saumon  fum6. 
Omelette  aux  rognons. 
Omelette     a      la     langiie 

de  hoeuf. 
Omelette  aux  loointes  d'as- 

perges. 
Omelette  aux  oigno7is. 
Omelette  d  VIndienne. 


Prawn  omelet. 
Olive  omelet. 

Omelet   with    mixed    vege- 
tables. 
Tomato  omelet. 
Cheese  omelet. 
Potato  omelet. 

Cockle  omelet. 

Clam  omelet. 

Omelet  with  smoked  salmon. 

Omelet  with  stewed  kidney. 

Tongue  omelet. 

Omelet      with       asparagus 

points. 
Omelet  with  onions. 
Savoury  omelet,  Indian  style. 


Flavoured  with  chopped  mint,  onions,  and  chives. 


Des  (Eufs. 

CEufs  crus. 
(Eilfsfrais. 
CEiifs  durs. 
CEufs  a  la  cogue. 
CEufs  jjoches. 
(Eilfs  frits. 
CEufs  au  miroir. 
CEufs  sur  plat. 
CEufs  mollets. 
CEufs  perles. 
CEufs  au  gratin 
CEufs  enveloppes. 
CEufs  hrouilles. 
CEufs  frits  sur  plat. 
CEufs  jjoches  au  jus. 
CEufs  frits  a  la  tomate. 

CEufs  a  V Africaine, 


Eggs. 

Eaw  eggs. 

Fresh  eggs. 

Hard-boiled  eggs. 

Soft-boiled  eggs. 

Poached  eggs. 

Fried  eggs. 

Eggs  fried  in  butter  (open). 

Eggs  baked  on  the  plate. 

Soft-boiled  eggs. 

Perled  eggs. 

Baked  eggs. 

Eggs  in  wrappers. 

Scrambled  eggs. 

Eggs  fried  on  the  dish. 

Poached  eggs  in  gravy. 

Fried     eggs    with     tomato 

sauce. 
Poached    eggs    with    fried 

ham. 


SAVOUREUX  —  SAVOURIES  329 

(Eufs  poches  a  la  puree  de  Poached  eggs  with  mashed 
navets.  turnips. 

CEiifs  2^oches  aux  epinards.  Poached  eggs  with  spinach. 

(Eufs  2wcli&s  a  la  puree  de  Poached  eggs  with  lentil 
lentilles.  puree. 

(Eufs  poches  a  la/puree  de  Poached  eggs  with  puree  of 
marrons.  chestnuts. 

(Eufs  poches  d  la  puree  Poached  eggs  with  sorrel 
d'oseilles.  puree. 

(Eufs  a  la  Midhat  Pasha.     Fried  eggs  with  fried  onions. 

(Eufs  a  Voeil  de  hceuf.  Eggs  baked  in  butter. 

(Eufs  hrouilles,  Lyonnaise.  Scrambled  eggs  with   fried 

onions. 

(Eufs  hrouilles  au  jamhon.  Scrambled  eggs  with  ham. 

(Eufs  hrouilUs  aux  pointes  Scrambled  eggs  with  aspa- 
d'asperges.  ragus  points. 

(Eufs  hrouilUs  aux  aiicJwis.  Scrambled  eggs  with  an- 
chovy fillets. 

(Eufs  d  la  tripe.  Hard-boiled  or  baked  eggs, 

cut  in  strips  and  fried. 

(Eufs  a  la  Souhise.  Poached   eggs  with     onion 

puree. 

Bottles  des  ceufs  {quenelles).  Eggs  balls  (used  for  soups 

and  garnishing). 

Salade  aux  ceufs.  Egg  salad. 

(Eufs  sur  pai7i  grilU.  Poached  eggs  on  toast. 

(Eufs  a  la  ho7ine  femme.       Eggs,  bonne  femme  style. 

Hard-boiled     eggs    cut    into   halves,   stuffed    with 
minced  chicken,  ham  and  beetroot. 

(Eufs  a  la  Carmelite.  Eggs,  Carmelite  nun's  way. 

Halves  of  hard-boiled  eggs  stuffed  with  chopped  onions, 
parsley,  sorrel  and  yolks  of  eggs,  baked  in  the  oven. 

(Eufs  au  heurre  noir.  Poached  eggs    with   brown 

butter. 
(Eufs  a  la  maitrc  d'hotel.     Eggs,  hotel-keeper's  fashion. 
Hard-boiled    eggs  with    fried  Spanish  onions   and 
parsley  sauce. 


330  PEACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

CEufs  a  la  Gruyere.  Eggs,  Gruyere  fashion. 

Scrambled  eggs  with  grated  Gruyere  (Swiss)  cheese. 

CEufs  d  la  creme.  Creani  eggs. 

Whipped  whites  of  eggs  steamed  in  moulds. 

CEufs  d  la  Bobert.  Stewed    eggs   with    Robert 

sauce. 
CEufs  en  mari7iade.  Poached  eggs  with  egg-yolk 

sauce. 
CEufs  a  VIndienne.  Curried  eggs  with  rice. 

CEufs  a  la  Diahle.  Devilled  eggs. 

Halves  of  hard-boiled  eggs  stuffed  with  anchovy 
paste,  seaspned  with  Cayenne  pepper,  baked  in  the  oven. 

Fricassee  d'ceufs.  Fricasseed  eggs. 

CEufs  en  caisses.  Eggs  baked  in  paper  cases. 

Bagoilt  dvORufs  d  la  fran-   Egg  stew,  French  style. 
caise. 
Stewed  hard-boiled  eggs,  with  truffles,  morels,  and 
red  wine  sauce. 

CEufs  farcis.  Stuffed  eggs. 

CEufs  farcis  aux  champi-    Eggs    stuffed    with    mush- 

gnons.  rooms. 

CEufs  d  la  gourmet.  Eggs,  gourmet  style. 

Stuffed  eggs  with  crayfish  tails  and  smoked  salmon. 

CEufs  d  la  Norfolk.  Eggs,  Norfolk  fashion. 

Halves  of  hard-boiled  eggs,  egged,  crumbed,  fried  in 
butter,  and  served  with  piquante  sauce. 

CEufs  d  la  Granville.  Eggs,  Granville  style. 

Coarsely  shred  hard-boiled  eggs,  stewed  in  an  onion 
sauce,  flavoured  with  lemon  rind  and  mace. 

CEufs  d  la  salamandre.        Eggs,  salamander  style. 

Discs  of  hard-boiled  whites  of  Qgg,  done  in  a  rich 
parsley  and  egg  sauce,  dressed  in  a  border  of  mashed 
potatoes,  and  browned  with  a  hot  salamander. 

CEufs  farcis  aux  ejmiards.  Eggs  stuffed  with  spinach. 


SAVOUBEUX SAVOURIES  331 

CEufs  a  la  matelote.  Eggs,  seaman's  way. 

Eggs  poached  in  meat  broth,  dressed  on  rounds  of 
toast,  sauced  over  with  a  rich  brown  fine  herb  and  onion 
sauce  ;  garnished  with  grilled  fillets  of  anchovies. 

Cotelettes  aux  ceufs.  Egg  cutlets. 

Minced  hard-boiled  eggs,  prepared  with  grated  cheese 
and  herb  seasoning,  moistened  with  yolks  of  fresh  eggs, 
shaped  like  cutlets,  egged,  crumbed,  and  fried. 

Pyramid e  d'ceufs  a  la  Be-  Egg  pyramid.  Reform  style. 
forme. 
Stuffed  halves  of  hard-boiled  eggs,  dished  up  in  a 
pyramidal  form,  sprinkled  with  finely  chopped  ham  and 
truffles,  sauced,  and  baked  in  a  quick  oven. 

CEtifs  2)oches  a  la  Portu-  Eggs    poached,  Portuguese 
gaise.  style. 

Poached  eggs  dressed  on  rounds  of  toasted  bread, 
laid  over  with  stuffed  halves  of  tomatoes. 

CEufs  ijoches  aiojambon.       Poached  eggs  with  ham. 
CEufs  a  la  mode  de  Caen.     Eggs,  Caen  fashion. 

Slices  of  hard-boiled  eggs,  done  in  a  rich  white  cream 
sauce,  with  coarsely  shred  boiled  Spanish  onions. 

CEufs  farcis  an  jamhon  et  Eggs  stuffed  with  ham  and 
nouilles.  noodles  (a  kind  of  maca- 

roni paste). 
CEufs  farcis  a  la  cr erne.       Eggs     stuffed    with     thick 

savoury  cream. 
(Eifs  sur  croutons  a  Vecar-  Eggs  and  tongue  croutons. 
late. 

Poached  eggs  dressed  on  rounds  of  fried  bread, 
spread  with  tongue  paste. 

CEufs  a  la  Bomaine.  Eggs,  Roman  style. 

A  kind  of  small  egg^  souffles,  seasoned  with  grated 
cheese  and  cayenne,  baked  in  patty-pans. 

CEufs  a  Vltalienne.  Eggs,  Italian  style. 

Halves  of  hard-boiled    eggs,  stuffed  with  anchovy 

21 


332  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

paste  and  grated  cheese,  and  served  with   a  rich   be- 
chamel sauce. 

CEJufs  farcis  mo  persil.  Eggs    filled    with    parsley 

stuffing. 
CEJufs  frits  d  la  Suisse.         Eggs  fried,  Swiss  fashion. 

Eggs,  fried  whole,  sprinkled  with  grated  Gruyere 
cheese,  and  seasoned  before  frying. 

CEufs  a  VEcossaise.  Eggs,  Scotcl;  style. 

Whole  hard-boiled  eggs  filled  with  forcemeat 
stuffing,  egged,  crumbed,  and  fried  in  butter.  Served  with 
a  tomato  sauce  in  which  are  incorporated  the  hard- 
boiled  yolks  finely  chopped. 

CEiifs  brouilles  mt  heurre.    Buttered  eggs. 
A  kind  of  scrambled  eggs. 

CEufs  brouilles  d  rindienne.'B\iiteYed  eggs,  Indian  style. 
Scrambled  eggs,  seasoned  with  curry  powder   and 
Cayenne  pepper. 

CEicfs  d  la  Garfield.  Eggs,  Garfield  style. 

Whole  hard-boiled  eggs  covered  with  a  layer  of  force- 
meat, egged,  crumbed  in  crushed  vermicelli,  fried  in 
clarified  butter,  and  served  with  piquante  sauce. 

Entremets  Farineux  et         Farinaceous  Food  and 
Mets  au  Fromage.  Savoury  Cheese  Dishes. 

Farine  de  Berviude.  Arrowroot. 

Fari^ie  d'avoine  a  VAnglaise  Oatmeal  porridge. 
Gruau  de  farine.  Oatmeal  gruel. 

Gruau  d'orge.  Barley  gruel. 

Macaroni  au  nahcrel.  Plain  boiled  macaroni. 

Macaroni  au  lait.  Macaroni  cooked  in  milk. 

Macaroni  a  la  creme.  Boiled  macaroni  with  cream. 

Macaroni  au  gratin.  Macaroni    prepared,    baked 

gratin  style. 
Macaroni  d  Vltalienne.        Boiled  macaroni  with  tomato 

and  cheese. 
Mondamin.  Corn  flour. 


SAVOUREUX SAVOURIES  33^ 

Croquettes  de  macaroni.        Macaroni  croquets. 
Timhale  de  macaroni.  Savoury  macaroni  pudding. 

Beignets  de  macaroni.  Macaroni  fritters. 

Nouilles  au  naturel.  Plain  boiled  noodles  (nudels). 

Nouilles  a  la  Palermo.  Stewed  noodles  with  grated 

cheese. 
Mais  a  VIndienne.  Stewed  Indian  corn. 

Biz  houilli  au  naturel.  Plain  boiled  rice. 

Bordure  de  riz.  Border  of  rice. 

Biz  a  VIndienne.  Curried  rice. 

Biz  a  la  Florentine.  Rice  cooked  Florentine  style. 

Stewed  rice  with  picked  shrimps,  crayfish  tails,  or 
prawns,  curry  paste,  grated  Parmesan  cheese,  and  finely 
chopped  fried  onions. 

Biz  d  la  Turque.  Rice,  Turkish  fashion. 

Stewed  rice  with  saffron  powder,  Cayenne  pepper, 
Smyrna  raisins,  and  fresh  butter. 

Biz  a  la  Polonaise.  Rice,  Polish  style. 

Stewed  rice  with  thinly  sliced  fried  onions,  shreds  of 
cooked  ham,  Cayenne  pepper,  and  grated  cheese. 

Biz  a  la  Piemontaise.  Rice,  Piedmontese  style. 

Stewed  rice  with  mashed  potatoes,  finely  chopped 
fried  shallots,  grated  Parmesan  cheese,  and  Cayenne 
pepper. 

Biz  d  la  Milanaise.  Rice,  Milanese  fashion. 

Stewed  rice  with  grated  Parmesan  cheese,  mixed 
with  coarsely  shred  meats  (fowl,  game,  tongue,  or  ham), 
seasoned  with  nutmeg  and  black  pepper. 

Biz  d  I'Espagnole.  Rice,  Spanish  style. 

Boiled  rice,  drained  and  fried  in  olive  oil,  mixed  with 
tomato  stew  and  slices  of  ham,  seasoned  with  grated 
cheese  and  Spanish  sweet  pepper  ;  the  dish  is  garnished 
with  rounds  of  ham  and  slices  of  smoked  sausages. 

Bisotto  aux  tomates.  Stewed    rice    with    tomato 

puree. 


834 


PRiCTICAL    GASTRONOMY 


Mizzoletti.  Savoury  rice  croquets. 

These  are  croquets  made  of  stewed  rice,  seasoned 
with  a  rich  savoury  sauce.  Some  prepared  mincemeat 
is  enclosed  in  the  centre  of  the  croquets ;  they  are 
crumbed,  egged,  and  fried. 

Biz  a  la  Beine.  Eice,  Queen's  style. 

Stewed  rice  with  fine  shreds  of  hard-boiled  whites  of 
egg,  and  the  white  part  of  cooked  haddock,  and  grated 
cheese.     When  dished  up  it  is  browned  in  a  quick  oven. 

Souffles  au  fromage.  Cheese  souffles. 

Fondues  a  la  Yarmouth.      Cheese    and    bloater  -  paste 

souffles. 
Fondues  au  Parmesan.         Parmesan  cheese  souffles. 
FeuillantinesauFarmesan.Vvi^-^d^^iQ  sticks  with  Par- 
mesan cheese. 
Cheese  straws. 
Swiss  cheese  tartlets. 


Failles  au  Farmesan. 
Tartelettes     Suisses     au 

fromage. 
CroiUes    de    fromage     a 

V  Anglaise. 
Croute  de  fromage  a  Vceuf  Buck  rarebit. 

iwche. 


Welsh  rarebits 
rarebits. 


and  cock 


TiMBALE   A  LA  MODERNE. 


335 


DESSERT. 
Fruits  and  Biscuits. 


Abricots. 

Amandes. 

Biscuits  Albert. 

Biscuits  Americains. 

Pommes. 

Mirtilles. 

Biscuits  aux  chocolat. 

Biscuits  a  la  cannelle. 

Cerises. 

Groseilles  rouges. 

Groseilles  blanches. 

Marrons. 

Biscuits  d  la  creme. 

Dattes. 

Biscuits  de  dessert. 

Figues. 

Biscuits  a  la  cuillere. 

Groseilles  vertes. 

Baisin,  blanc  et  noir. 

Beine- Claudes. 

Noisettes. 

Biscuit  gingembre. 

Grenades. 

Melons. 

Melons  a  Veau. 

Massepain. 

Mirabelles. 

Nefles. 

Fruits  divers. 

Bisctiits  au  citron. 

Macaronis. 

Biscuits  de  Milan. 

Mandarines. 

Oranges. 

Peches. 

P  is  t  aches. 

Primeaux. 


Apricots. 

Almonds. 

Albert  biscuits. 

American  biscuits. 

Apples. 

Bilberries. 

Chocolate  biscuits. 

Cinnamon  biscuits. 

Cherries. 

Red  currants. 

White  currants. 

Chestnuts. 

Cream  biscuits. 

Dates. 

Dessert  biscuits. 

Figs. 

Finger  biscuits. 

Gooseberries. 

Grapes,  white  and  black. 

Greengages. 

Hazel-nuts. 

Ginger  biscuits. 

Pomegranates. 

Melons. 

Water  melons. 

Marchpane  (marzipan) 

Mirabelles. 

Medlars. 

Mixed  fruits. 

Lemon  biscuits. 

Macaroons. 

Milan  biscuits. 

Mandarins. 

Oranges. 

Peaches. 

Pistachio  nuts. 

Plums. 


336 


PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 


Avelines. 

Poires. 

Coings. 

Grimhlettes  de  leeches. 

Nougats  mix  avelines. 

Biscuits  ratafies. 

Framboises. 

Fraises. 

Biscuits  de  Beims. 

Ananas. 

Brugnons. 

Noix. 

Baisin  sec. 

Gau/res. 

Gateaux  arhrcux. 

Petits  choux. 

Fondants. 

Fruits  crystallises. 

Quatre  mendiants.* 


Filberts. 

Pears. 

Quinces. 

Peach  cracknels. 

Filbert  trifles. 

Ratafia  biscuits. 

Raspberries. 

Strawberries. 

Sponge  biscuits. 

Pineapples. 

Nectarines. 

Walnuts. 

Raisins. 

Wafers. 

Tree  cakes. 

Puff  cakes. 

Fondants. 

Crystallised  fruit. 

Four  beggars. 


Names  of  French  and  Swiss  Dessert  Biscuits,  &c. 

Fours  secs. 


Smelles  i^oudrees. 
Palets  de  dames. 
Plaisirs. 
Duchesses. 
Craquelins. 
Patience  royales. 
Buchilles. 
Bricelets  sucres. 
Esses  vanillees. 
Coquilles  d'orangeS. 
Leckerlis  de  Bale. 
Leckerlis  aux  noisettes. 
Leckerlis  minces. 
Leckerlis  colombier. 


Petits  Milans. 

Bruns  de  Bale. 

Lozanges  millefeuilles. 

Souffles /raise. 

Souffles  vanille. 

Briochettes  de  Marseille. 

Liens  de  noisettes. 

Feuilles  de  lierre. 

Florentins. 

Tuiles. 

Petits  fours. 

Macarons. 

Biscotins. 

Tuiles  atix  fruits. 


*    Consist  of  four  dried  dessert  fruits :    viz, — figs,  filberts^ 
almonds  and  raisins. 


DESSERT 


337 


Fours  glaces. 


Macarons  a  la  creme. 
Americains. 
Girofles  pistaches. 
Lozanges  jamatqiies. 
Colibris. 
Orphees. 
Taitis. 

Croissants  pistaches. 
N eg  res  blancs. 
Napolitains. 
Triang  les  p  is  tac  lies . 
Ananas  fonchmts. 
Cerises  au  f oxidant. 
Olives  noisettes. 
Pralines  vanille. 
Noix  pralinees. 
Fondants  fourres. 
Fondants  a  la  vanille. 
Fondants  aux  f raises. 
Fondafits  au  rlium. 
Fondants  a  Vorange. 
Fondants  au  chocolat. 
Fondants  aux  noisettes. 
Fondants  a  la  peche. 


Mignonnettes. 
Montmarency. 
Sarah  Ber?iard. 
Girafes. 

Cornets  confiture. 
Africains. 
Bouchees  au  rhuyn. 
Boule  de  neige. 
Berlinois. 

Bonnes-houches  pralinees, 
M'aimes-tu  ? 
Carrees  glacees. 
Olives  pistaches. 
Olives  chocolat. 
Prali^ies  fondantes. 
Nougat  hlanc  de  Montelimar 
Fondants  d  la  framboise. 
Fondants  aux  ahricots. 
Fondants  au  kirsch. 
Fondants  au  citron. 
Fondants  a  la  menthe. 
Fondants  aux  pistaches. 
Fondants  au  cafe. 
Fondants  aux  poircs. 


Pieces  montees. 


Croquemhouches  nougat. 
Barque  nougat. 
Temple  nougat. 
Coupe  nougat. 
Corheille  nougat. 
Maisonnette  au macaronage. 
Genoise  stir  socle. 
Gateau  de  Chantilly  monte. 
Tronc  d'arhre  cl  la  voliere. 
Gerbe  de  ble  a  lapj'intaniere. 


Sultanes  de  fruits  confits. 
Sultanes     de    quartiers 

cVoranges. 
Macarons  monies. 
Ghoux  mondes  d  la  creme. 
Nougat  a  la  Parisienne. 
Gateau  Napolitain  monte. 
Chalet  Suisse  en  nougat. 
Baba  Polonaise. 
Gateau  millefeuilles 


338 


PRACTICAL   GASTRONOMY 


Fromages. 


Fromage 
Fromage 
Fromage 
Fromage 
Fromage 
Fromage 
Fromage 
Fromage 
Fromage 
Fromage 
Fromage 
Fromage 
Fromage 
Fromage 
Cenis. 
Fromage 
Fromage 
Fromage 
Fromage 
Souchees 
Fromage 
Fromage 
Fromage 
Fromage 
Fromage 
Fromage 
Fromage 
Fromage 
Fromage 
Fromage 


de  Brie, 
de  Cheddar, 
de  Chester, 
de  Camembert. 
d  la  creme. 
de  chameau. 
au  cumin, 
de  Hollande. 
de  lait  de  hrehis. 
de  Gloitcester. 
vert. 

de  lait  de  chevre. 
de  vache. 
2Jersille  duMont- 

de  Limhourg. 

de  Liptau. 

de  Neufchdtel. 

de  Gorgonzole. 

de  Mayence. 

de  Parmesan. 

de  Port  Salut. 

de  Roquefort. 

de  Stilton. 

Suisse. 

de  Gruyere. 

a  la  sauge. 

de  renne. 

mou. 

de  petit-lait. 


Cheeses. 

Brie  cheese. 
Cheddar  cheese. 
Cheshire  cheese. 
Camembert  cheese. 
Cream  cheese. 
Camel  cheese. 
Carraway  seed  cheese. 
Dutch  cheese. 
Ewe-milk  cheese. 
Gloucester  cheese. 
Green  cheese. 
Goat  cheese. 
New  milk  cheese. 
Green  herb  cheese. 

Limbourg  cheese. 
Liptau  cheese. 
Neufchatel  cheese. 
Gorgonzola  cheese. 
Mayence  hand-cheese. 
Parmesan  cheese. 
Port  Salut  cheese. 
Roquefort  cheese. 
Stilton  cheese. 
Swiss  cheese. 
Gruyere  cheese. 
Sage  cheese. 
Reindeer  cheese. 
German  curd  cheese. 
Whey  cheese. 


PART   V. 

HECHEECHE  COOKEEY, 

COMPEISING 

THE    LATEST    RECIPES    FOR 

HORS-D'CEUVRE, 

80UPS,    DRESSED    FISH,    ENTRIES, 

REMOVES, 

SAUCES     and     GARNITURES, 

SECOND    COURSE    DISHES, 

DRESSED  VEGETABLES  and  SALADS, 

SWEET  ENTREMETS  and 

SAVOURIES. 


22 


SPECIME^T-MENUS  FOE  LITTLE  DINNERS 
FOE  EYEEY  MONTH  IN  THE  YEAE. 


Other  Menus  will  be  found  in  tlie  Chapter  treating 
of  the  compilation  of  Bills  of  Fare,  &c. 

The  dishes  named  in  these  Menus  are  in  accordance 
with  the  products  of  the  season,  and  the  directions  for 
preparing  the  same  will  be  found  concisely  described 
and  explained  under  the  respective  headings  of  the 
Recipes. 

The  quantities  given  are  usually  calculated  for 
about  six  or  eight  persons  :  these  can  be  increased  or 
reduced  according  to  requirement. 


Note. — Plain  Vegetables  have  not  been  entered  in 
these  Menus.  These  should  be  selected  according  to 
the  season  as  well  as  the  taste  of  the  diners. 


342 


r.ECHERCHE    COOKERY. 


MENU. 


Consomme  Brnnoise. 

Filets  de  Merlans  au  gratin. 

Salmis  de  Perdreaux. 

Artichauts  a  la  Barigoule. 

Mousses  de  Foie  gras 
a  la  Reine. 

Filet  de  Boeuf  roti. 

Pommes  de  terre  Duchesse. 

Charlotte  a  la  St.  Jose. 

Huitres  en  caisses  a  la 
Diable. 


In  Season. — Dutch  salmon,  eels,  flounders,  lobsters,  herrings, 
mackerel,  oysters,  soles,  scallops,  turbot,  sprats,  crayfish.—  Arti- 
chokes, sprouts,  Spanish  onions,  parsnips,  salsify,  savoys.— 
Black-game,  capons,  ducks  pintail,  geese,  larks. 


RECHERCHE     COOKERY. 


343 


MENU. 


Potage  Bisque  de  Homarcl. 

Cabillaud  recrepi. 
Sauce  aux  Huitres. 

Filets  de  Mouton 
a  PAlgerienne. 

Flageolets  a  la  Poulettc. 

Chapon  bard6  Eoti, 
Salade. 

Pommes  de  terre  farcies. 

Pommes  au  riz  merin- 
guees. 

Condoles  a  I'Anchois. 


In  Season. — Cod,  eels,  plaice,  oysters,  scallops,  skate,  smelts, 
sprats,  whitebait,  shrimps,  trout,  turbot.— Celery,  leeks,  lettuce, 
mushrooms,  cucumbers,  kale,  salsify. —  Apples,  pears,  melons 
(Spanish). — Wild  duck,  hares,  woodcock. 


844 


RECHERCHE     COOKERY. 


MENU. 


Consomme  St.  Hubert. 

Bouchees  aux  Huitres. 

Sole  au  Parmesan. 

Poulet  frit  a  la  Tyrolienne. 

Sauce  Eemoulade. 

Gigot  d'Agneau  roti. 

Epinards  a  la  Bechamel. 

Creme  a  la  Eomaine. 

Tartines  a  la  Baroda. 


In   Season. — Crabs,  doreys,  haddocks,  skate,  salmon,  white 
bait. — New   Jersey  potatoes,    spinach,    tomatoes. — Guinea  fowls, 
capons,  landrails,  plovers,  ptarmigan,  quails,  widgeon.— Apples, 
bananas,  hot-house  pine?,  figs  and  grapes,  Seville  oranges. 


RECHERCHE    COOKERY. 


345 


Caviar  aux  Ecrevisses 


Petites  Marmites, 
Parisienne. 

Filets  de  Truite,  Milanaibe. 

Teudrons  d'Agneau  aux 
pointes  d'Asperges. 

Pommes  de  terra  nouvelles 
a  la  Chateau. 

Pigeons  farcis  a  la 
Princesse. 

Salade  a  la  Lyonnaise. 

Pouding  aux  Peches  a  la 
Kichelieu. 


In  Season.— Flounders,  salmon,  lobsters,  mackerel,  turbot, 
whitebait,  scallops,  smelt,  trout.— Spring  chickens,  ducklings, 
ortolans,  leverets,  prairie  hens,  rabbits. — New  potatoes,  asparagus, 
.^lobe  artichokes,  spinach,  tomatoes. — Khubarb,  oranges. 


34G 


EECHEECHE    COOKERY. 


Anchois  a  la  Norvegienne.. 

Potage  Bonne  Femme. 

Filets  de  Soles 
a  la  Chasseur  Koyal. 

Kis  de  Veau  a  la 
Financiere. 

Petits  Pois  a  la  Fran^aise.. 

Pintade  bardee,  rotie. 

)    Salade,  Pommes 

Pailles. 

Pouding  glace, 
:\  la  Nesselrode. 

Petits  Souffles 
au  Thon. 


In  Season Halibut,  soles,  turbot,  salmon,  whiting,  smelts, 

gurnets,  eels.— Hares,  leverets,  plovers'  eggs,  reeves,  spring 
chickens,  quails,  rabbits. — Lettuces,  asparagus,  spinach,  nevir 
potatoes,  carrots  and  turnips. — Currants,  pines,  rhubarb. 


RECHEECHE    COOKERY. 


347 


MENU. 

Consomme  a  la  Brisse. 

Piougets  a  la  Venitienne^ 

Canetons  a  la  Portugaise^ 

Cotelettes  d'Agneau 
a  la  Pompadour. 

Homard  a  rAmericaine. 

Poulets  de  printemps  rotis.. 

Pommes  de  terre  soufflees 

Pouding  a  la  St.  Cloud. 

Dames  d'Honneur. 


In  Season.— Crayfish,  gurnets,  lobsters,  prawns,  soles,  salmon,, 
whiting.— Lamb,  capons,  spring  chickens,  poults  (turkey),  quails, 
ruffs,  reeves,  goslings,  fowls.— Peas,  asparagus,  spinach,  new  pota- 
toes, tomatoes.— Hot-house  grapes,  strawberries,  gooseberries,, 
currants,  cherries. 


;48 


RECHERCHE    COCKERY. 


MENU. 

Potage  St.  Germain. 

Saumon  a  la  Eosebery. 

Filets   de    Meiian 
a  la  TjTolienne. 

Supreme  de  Veau  a  1' Aspic. 

Hanclie  de  Venaison  rotie 

Aubergines  a  la  Proven^ale.  ^ 

Gelee  aux  Fraises. 

Nougat  a  la  Chantilly. 

Biscuits  au  Parmesan. 


In  Season.  — Carp,  perch,  pik?,  lobster,  turbot,  soles,  red 
mullet,  bream,  whitebait. — Lamb,  ducks,  fowls,  hares,  ortolans^ 
quails,  salmon. — Peas,  spinach,  tomatoes,  cucumbers,  aspara- 
gus.— Cherries,  gooseberries,  raspberries,  strawberries,  currants. 


EECHEECHE    COOXERY. 


349 


Consomme  Chiffonnade. 

Cenclrillons  de  filets  de  Sole. 

Yoi-au-vent  a  la  Victoria. 

Aloyau  de  Boeuf  a  la 
Godard. 

Sorbet  d'Ananas. 

Gelinotte  rotie. 

Salsifis  frits. 

Suedoise  d'Abricot. 

Diablotines  a  la  Gruyere. 


In  Season.— Bass,  crayfish,  grey  mullet,  halibut,  soles,  oysters, 
whiting,    prawns.— Capons,   wild  ducks,  grouse,    larks,    plover, 
snipe,  teal,  woodcock.— Beans,  peas,  cabbage,  vegetable  marrows 
cauliflowers,  greengages,  nectarines,  peaches,  raspberries,  goose 
berries,  filberts. 


850 


RECHERCHE    COOKERY. 


Puree  de  choux-fleur. 

Eperlans  a  la  Celestine. 

Sarcelles  aux  Olives. 

(Eufs  a  la  Gambetta. 

Levraut  a  la  Bordelaise. 

Pommes  Julienne. 

Selle  de  Mouton  rotie. 

Beignets  de  Groseilles. 

Niokes  au  gratin. 


In  Season. — Gurnets,  herrings,  plaice,  bream,  mullet, 
salmon,  flounders,  oysters. — Ducks  (wild  and  tame),  grouse, 
plovers,  snipe,  widgeon,  woodcock,  teal.— Sprouts,  cauliflower,, 
cabbage,  French  beans,  vegetable  marrows. — Apricots,  peaches,, 
damsons,  raspberries,  plums. 


RECHERCHE    COOKERY. 


351 

1 


l\ 


MENU. 


Canapes  a  la  Capucienne. 

Consomme  a  la  Careme. 

Huie  de  Saumon  a  la 
Moderne. 

Atriots  de  Volaille 
a  la  Vaudoise. 

Perdrix  braisees  aux  choux. 

Eond  de  Veau  roti. 

Salade  a  la  Dmnas. 

Bordure  de  Marrons 
a  la  Chantilly. 

Tomates  au  gratin. 


In  Season. —  Smelt,  oysters,  skate,  red  and  grey  mullet,  soles* 
scallops,  turbot,  halibut.— Capercailzie,  ducks,  capons,  chickens, 
pheasants,  partridges,  turkeys,  pigeons,  snipe. — Apples,  bananas, 
medlars,  oranges,  peaches,  pears,  cob  nuts,  filberts,  tigs,  grapes. 


352 


RECHERCHE    COOKERY. 


Appetissants  Maconnaise. 
Potage  a  la  Cressy. 


Filets  de  Turbot  a  la 
Normande. 

Salmis  de  Qanard  sauvage. 

Mousse  de  Foie  gras 
a  la  Eeine. 

Filet  de  Boeuf  a  la  Chateau- 
briand. 

Pommes  de  terre  a  la 
Lyonnaise. 

Chartreuse  de  Poires  a  la 
Princesse. 

Amandes  a  la  Diable. 


In  Season.— Cod  fish,  doreys,  eels,  mackerel,  soles,  turbot, 
skate,  ovsters,  scallops,  tench.— Pheasants,  partridges,  black 
game,  grouse,  hares,  plovers,  turkeys,  ptarmigan,  ^Yoodcock.— 
Jerusalem  artichokes,  celery,  broccoli,  savoys,  spinach,  French 
beans,  parsnips. 


RECHERCHE    COOKERY. 


35B 


a»ys«!W5i-st.  *- 


MENU. 

Consomme  aux  Quenelles. 

Souffle  de  Homard, 

Sauce  Aurore. 

Epigrammes  de  Veau  a  la 
Jardiniere. 

Cailles  en  caisses  a  I'Aspic. 
inde  farcie  aux  marrons. 

Salade  de  saison. 

Pouding  a  la  Napoleon. 

Gelee  au  Marasquin. 

Petites  Eosettes  a    a  Russe 


In  Season.  —  Crabs,  crayfish,  flounders,  mackerel,  sprats, 
shrimps,  soles,  whiting,  cod  fish. — Blackcock,  ducks,  geese,  turkeys, 
pheasants,  guinea  fowls,  plovers,  rabbits,  ptarmigan,  widgeons, 
larks,  hares.  —  Mushrooms,  salsify,  savoys,  celery. — Apples, 
melons,  tangerines,  grapes,  nuts. 


CHAPTER  I. 
ELEMENTAEY  METHODS  AND  EULES. 


1,  Flavouring  and  t^easoning. 

The  most  important  articles  used  are  salt,  pepper, 
spices,  vinegar,  oil,  fat,  butter,  mustard,  aromatic  herbs, 
&c. 

The  principal  functions  of  these  food  adjuncts  is  to 
render  food  more  palatable,  more  appetising,  and  more 
digestible. 

Salt  is  the  chief  and  most  important  seasoning  used  ; 
it  is  not  merely  a  seasoning,  but  a  necessary  of  life,  for 
it  removes  the  insipid  flavour  from  all  eatables,  such  as 
meat,  vegetables,  &c.;  it  acts  as  an  appetiser 'and  pro- 
motes digestion.  The  average  quantity  of  salt  required 
by  each  person  being,  according  to  medical  authority, 
from  ^  to  ^  an  ounce  per  day,  it  becomes  a  necessary 
adjunct  for  the  preservation  of  health.  AYhen  added  to 
food  it  supplies  the  material  for  two  important  agents 
in  the  processes  of  digestion  and  nutrition,  viz.,  the 
gastric  juice  and  the  constituents  of  the  bile.  Salt, 
like  all  seasonmgs,  must  be  used  with  judgment,  for  if 
used  in  excess  it  is  apt  to  spoil  the  dishes,  and  often 
renders  them  uneatable. 

When  added  to  boiling  water,  it  raises  its  tempera- 
ture and  liberates  the  oxygen. 

Salt  acts  further  as  a  great  preserving  agent  for. 
meat,  vegetables  and  other  substances. 


ELEMENTARY  METHODS  AND  RULES.      355 

Spices,  such  as  white  and  black  pepper,  cayenne,, 
cloves,  nutmeg,  paprika  (Hungarian  pepper),  coriander, 
cinnamon,  mace,  &c.,  cannot  be  considered  to  have  any 
nutritive  properties  ;  they  are  used  for  the  purpose  of 
imparting  certain  flavours  to  improve  the  taste  of  various- 
food  substances.  In  adding  the  seasoning  and  flavour- 
ing to  dishes,  it  is  of  the  greatest  importance  for  a 
cook  to  remember  that  the  exquisite  sensibility  of  a 
cook's  palate  can  best  be  judged  and  admired  by  his  or- 
her  cooking. 

Aromatic  Spice  is  a  mixture  of  various  flavours^ 
consisting  of  pepper,  salt,  cinnamon,  mace,  powdered 
bayleaf,  thyme,  marjoram,  nutmeg,  and  cayenne  ;  these 
are  used  principally  for  braised  meats,  sautes,  ragouts, 
galantines,  vol-au-vents,  game  pies,  and  numerous  other 
preparations.  All  spices,  if  used  judiciously,  undoubt- 
edly render  a  very  nice  and  agreeable  flavour. 

An  absurd  idea  prevails  that  "plain  cooking" 
requires  no  other  seasoning  beyond  pepper  and  salt,  and 
perhaps  some  Worcester  sauce  or  ketchup.  There  are 
a  number  of  other  inexpensive  condiments,  besides  these, 
which  could  with  advantage  be  used  for  the  plainest  of 
cooking,  and,  with  the  needful  amount  of  judgment  and 
reserve,  all  dishes  can  be  so  seasoned  and  flavoured,, 
which  would  improve  the  monotony  of  "  plain  dishes  " 
at  a  very  small  cost. 

Entrees  and  savoury  dishes  are  as  a  rule  rather 
highly  seasoned  ;  this  should,  however,  be  done  with 
moderation  and  in  accordance  with  the  dish. 

Aromatic  Herbs  and  Plants. — The  following  are 
the  names  of  herbs  and  plants  mostly  used  in  the 
kitchen :  Parsley,  bayleaves,  thyme,  marjoram,  sage, 
tarragon,  chervil,  chives,  onions,  shallots,  garlic,  &c. 
A  number  of  these  are  used  in  a  dry  state,  but  either  dry 
or  fresh  they  are  used  in  a  large  variety  of  preparations. 

When  onions,  shallots,  or  garlic  are  used  they 
should  always  be  well  blended  with  other  flavours,  so 
that  the  peculiar  and  often  objectionable  taste  of  these 
cannot  be  detected. 

23 


356  RECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

2,  A  Pinch  of  Salt  or  Pepper, 

This  expression  is  much  used  in  cookery ;  it  is  there- 
fore necessary,  in  order  to  convey  a  notion  of  the  accurate 
quantities  of  a  pinch,  to  state  that  a  pinch  of  salt  or 
pepper  should  be  ^  of  an  ounce,  and  a  small  pinch 
(mostly  applied  to  cayenne)  y^  o^  ^^^  ounce  in  weight.  It 
would,  however,  be  difficult  and  impracticable  to  make 
use  of  the  scales  every  time  a  pinch  of  salt  or  pepper  is 
required.  The  best  plan  is  to  ascertain  the  capacity  of 
one's  fingers  by  weighing  the  quantity  they  hold,  and 
then  getting  accustomed  as  to  the  exact  quantity  required 
for  seasoning. 

In  the  matter  of  spices,  as  well  as  of  herbs  and  soup 
vegetables,  it  is  best,  to  avoid  continually  referring  to  the 
scales,  to  accustom  one's  self  as  much  as  possible  to 
be  able  to  tell  by  sight  the  weight  of  the  needful  quantity 
of  ingredients  required. 

S,  Bouquet  garni. 

Procure  a  few  branches  of  parsley,  one  or  two  sprigs 
of  thyme,  1  bayleaf,  a  spig  of  marjoram,  a  sprig  of  basil, 
a  little  chives,  green  celery  leaves,  and  a  clove  of  garlic  if 
hked. 

Wash  and  dry  the  parsley,  chives  and  celer}^  cut  the 
latter  in  pieces  about  the  size  of  the  parsley,  put  all 
nicely  together  in  a  bunch,  and  tie  up  with  a  piece  of 
string.  Other  aromatic  herbs  may  be  included  in  the 
bunch  if  liked.  Excessive  use  of  strong  smelhng  herbs 
must,  however,  be  avoided. 

4.  Fried  Parsley  (Persil  frit). 

Fried  parsley  is  mostly  used  to  garnish  fried  dishes. 
Remove  the  leaves  from  some  fresh  curly  parsley,  wash 
well  in  cold  water,  drain,  fold  in  a  cloth  and  press  gently 
to  extract  all  the  water  ;  then  put  in  a  wire  frying 
basket,  have  some  fat  quite  hot,  fry  the  parsley  for  about 
2  minutes  (long  enough  to  stiffen),  then  drain  on  a  cloth 
and  use  as  required. 


ELEMENTARY  METHODS  AND  RULES.      357 

5.  Chopped  Parsley  (Persil  hache). 

Wash  some  parsley,  trim  off  some  of  the  stalks  if 
coarse,  chop  as  finely  as  possible,  place  it  in  the  corner 
of  a  clean  cloth,  fold  the  end  of  the  cloth,  and  hold 
tightly  under  the  water  tap  or  rinse  in  a  basin  of  cold 
water,  squeeze  out  all  the  water  and  put  on  a  plate  till 
wanted. 

6.  To  Chop  an  Onion, 

Peel  the  onion,  cut  it  in  two  lengthways,  leaving 
the  stalk  ends.  Commence  to  slice  each  half  without 
detaching  the  slices  from  the  stalk.  Keep  firmly 
together,  and  cut  through  several  times  crossways  ;  then 
cut  down  horizontally  into  fine  squares,  until  you  come 
to  the  stalk.  This  is  the  quickest  way  to  mince  an 
onion,  but  it  requires  practice.  The  other  way  is  to 
peel  and  chop  in  the  ordinary  manner.  When  fine 
enough,  wash  in  cold  water,  drain  on  a  cloth,  and  use 
as  required. 

7.  To  Chop  Mushrooms, 

If  freshly-gathered  mushrooms  are  used,  peel  off  the 
skins,  trim  the  stalks,  and  wash  in  cold  water  ;  then 
chop  as  required,  and  use  immediately. 

Preserved  mushrooms  are  well  drained,  and  then 
chopped  as  required. 

8,  LiaisoUf  in  general. 

There  are  a  number  of  processes  of  thickening  soups 
and  sauces,  and  these  are  called  "  liaisons,"  in  a  culinary 
sense. 

A  liaison  may  be  composed  of  flour  (fegule,  arrow- 
root, cornflour,  creme-de-riz,  &c.),  diluted  in  either 
milk,  cream,  stock,  or  water,  according  to  the  nature  of 
the  soup  or  sauce  for  which  it  is  required.  A  liaison 
should  always  be  strained  before  it  is  mixed  with  the 
liquid  which  requires  thickening,  and  the  preparation 
be  well  stirred  whilst  the  latter  is  added. 


of 

I— I 

H 
125 

> 


ELEMENTARY  METHODS  AND  RULES.      359 

The  liaison  of  egg  is  very  frequently  used  for  white 
purees,  blanquettes,  fricassees,  and  white  sauces. 

Only  the  yolks  of  egg  should  be  used,  mixed  with  a 
small  quantity  of  cream,  and  well  beaten. 

Such  liaison  should  only  be  added  to  the  preparation 
for  which  it  is  required  when  it  is  thoroughly  cooked  ; 
part  of  the  soup  or  sauce  is  poured  on  to  the  liaison, 
stirred,  and  then  all  mixed  well  together. 

When  once  the  liaison  of  egg  is  added,  the  prepara- 
tion must  on  no  account  be  allowed  to  boil,  but  only 
just  get  thoroughly  heated,  so  as  to  form  the  liaison, 
thus  preventing  the  eggs  from  curdling. 

9,  Panade,  for  Forcemeat,  &c» 

Put  half  a  pint  of  water  and  an  ounce  of  butter  into 
a  stewpan,  add  a  pinch  of  salt,  stir  in  gradually  when 
boiling  four  ounces  of  sifted  flour  ;  work  vigorously  with 
a  wooden  spoon  or  spatula  over  the  fire  for  a  few  minutes. 
The  panade  is  done  when  it  leaves  the  sides  and  bottom 
of  the  stewpan  perfectly  clean.  Spread  it  on  a  dish  or 
plate,  and  use  when  cold.  Another  way  is  to  soak  in 
tepid  water  or  milk  some  white  bread  (without  crust) 
for  an  hour,  put  it  in  a  cloth  to  squeeze  out  the  moisture, 
turn  into  a  stewpan  with  an  ounce  of  butter  to  six 
ounces  of  bread  ;  heat  up  over  a  slow  fire,  stirring  all 
the  while,  add  a  pinch  of  salt,  turn  on  to  a  plate,  and 
use  when  cool. 

10.  Houx. 

Roux  is  the  French  term  for  a  preparation  used  as 
a  thickening  for  gravies,  sauces,  or  soups.  It  consists 
of  flour  fried  in  butter  to  a  desired  colour  or  blend. 
There  are  three  kinds — the  white,  the  blonde  or  fawn, 
and  the  brown.  The  white  roux  is  made  with,  say,  five 
ounces  of  butter  and  four  ounces  of  flour.  Melt  the 
butter,  sift  the  flour  and  stir  into  the  butter.  Cook 
slowly  on  the  side  of  the  stove  for  about  ten  minutes, 
without  allowing  it  to  take  colour.  Blonde  roux  is  made 
in  the  same  way,  but  is  stirred  over  a  slow  fire  until  i* 


360  EECHEECHE    COOKERY. 

becomes  of  a  fawn  or  blonde  colour.  White  and  blonde 
roux  are  used  for  veloute  and  Allemande  sauces,  the 
former  for  Bechamel  and  other  white  sauces. 

For  a  brown  roux,  leave  it  on  the  fire  or  put  in  a 
moderately  heated  oven  until  it  attains  a  Hght  brown 
or  chestnut  colour. 

Roux  should  at  all  times  be  allowed  to  cool  a  few 
minutes  before  the  moistening  is  added.  It  need  not 
be  used  immediately,  for  it  will  keep  some  time  if  put 
in  a  covered  jar  and  kept  in  a  dry  place. 

The  proportion  of  moisture  used  is  one  quart  of  liquid 
to  four  ounces  of  flour. 

11,  A  Mirepoix, 

A  mirepoix  is  the  foundation  for  flavouring  sauces, 
braised  meats,  and  a  number  of  thick  soups.  Its  com- 
position consists  of  the  following  ingredients,  which 
must  be  varied  according  to  the  quantity  required  : — 

2  carrots  weighing  about  5  oz.  each. 
2  onions  weighing  about  4  oz.  each. 

1  oz.  of  parsley  or  parsley  root. 

2  bay  leaves. 

1  blade  of  mace. 
1  or  2  shallots. 

1  sprig  of  thyme. 
12  peppercorns. 

2  cloves. 

^  lb.  of  raw  fat  ham  or  fat  bacon. 
i  lb.  beef  or  veal  trimmings. 

(The  latter  may  be  left  out.) 
^  oz.  mignonette  pepper. 

Method. — Prepare  the  vegetables,  cut  the  bacon, 
&c.,  into  small  pieces ;  fry  in  a  stewpan  a  Hght  brown 
colour.  Add  the  vegetables  cut  in  slices  ;  stir  over  the 
fire  until  light  brown,  then  add  the  herbs,  &c. 

If  required  for  sauce  or  brown  purees,  add  the  need- 
ful quantity  of  roux,  and  moisten  with  about  two  quarts 


ELEMENTARY  METHODS  AND  RULES.      361 

of  stock  and  half  a  pint  of  white  wine.     Stir  and  cook 
gently  for  one  hour  or  longer. 

12,  Salpicon, 

A  salpicon  is  a  mince  of  either  chicken,  game, 
foie-gras,  or  veal  with  tongue,  ham,  mushrooms  and 
truffles. 

The  whole  is  cut  into  small  dice  and  put  into  some 
prepared  sauce — Allemande,  Bechamel,  or  brown  sauce. 
The  quantity  required  depends  upon  the  dish  it  is  to  be 
used  in.  If  for  croquettes,  only  a  small  quantity  is 
used  for  binding  the  mixture. 

Salpicon  is  mostly  used  for  filling  bouchees  (small 
puff-paste  patties),  when  it  is  heated  up  in  the  sauce. 

Oysters  and  lobsters,  shrimps,  and  fillets  of  sole  are 
frequently  used  for  bouchees,  in  which  case  the  filling 
is  thus  prepared,  and  is  known  under  the  general  name 
of  Salpicon,  ham  or  tongue  being  of  course  omitted. 

IS.  Hints  oil  Cooking  Meats. 

Cutting^. — When  cuttting  meat  for  cooking,  always 
cut  across  the  grain  of  the  muscle. 

Cleaning^. — Meat  for  roasting  or  braising  should 
never  be  washed.  Wipe  it  with  a  damp  cloth,  or  scrape 
it,  if  it  requires  cleaning  or  drying. 

Seasoning. — As  a  general  rule,  meat  should  be 
seasoned  with  salt,  &c.,  just  before  it  is  taken  up. 

Keeping  on  Ice. — Never  place  meat  directly  on  the 
ice  ;  put  it  on  a  dish  or  plate  on  the  ice. 

Boiling. — The  art  of  boiling  meat  is  to  put  it  on  in 
boiling  water,  with  enough  water  to  well  cover  it.  Boil 
up  quickly  (this  keeps  in  the  juice  and  flavour).  Salt 
meat  should  be  put  on  in  warm  water,  not  boiling,  as 
this  helps  to  extract  some  of  the  salt.  When  the  meat 
boils  draw  on  to  the  side  of  the  stove,  and  let  boil 
slowly,  or  simmer  until  done. 

Time  for  Boiling.— Fifteen  to  twenty  minutes  should 
be  allowed  to  each  pound  of  fresh  meat,  according  to 


362  RECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

the  kind  and  size  of  meat.  The  time  is  reckoned  from 
the  moment  it  begins  to  boil,  and  not  when  put  into 
the  pan.  Salt  meat  requires  longer  to  boil  than  fresh 
meat. 

14,  JBraiser  (to  braise). 

Brazing  or  braising  is  a  combination  of  steT\dng  and 
baking.  Meat  which  is  braised  is  as  a  rule  boned,  and 
is  put  in  a  copper  stewpan  or  braising-pan  (braisoire), 
usually  on  a  "mirepoix  " — that  is,  a  bed  of  vegetables, 
such  as  carrot,  turnip,  onion,  faggotof  herbs,  &c.,  bacon, 
and  broth  or  stock. 

The  word  braiser  means  to  simmer  gently,  the  stew- 
pan  being  set  upon  embers  on  the  stove  or  in  the  oven. 
The  former  is  the  correct  method.  The  heat  required 
for  braising  is  radiant  heat,  therefore  the  pan  should 
have  a  tightly  fitting  lid,  which  is  so  constructed  as  to 
hold  burning  embers  which  ought  to  generate  the  heat 
upon  the  surface  of  the  stew,  whereby  the  meat  is 
cooked  in  a  kind  of  miniature  oven.  The  bottom  heat 
should  be  slower  than  that  of  the  top.  This  mode  of 
cooking  is  a  very  favourite  one  in  France  and  throughout 
the  Continent.  In  many  cases  it  is  undoubtedly  an 
improvement  upon  boiling  or  roasting. 

15,  Sauter, 

This  word  frequently  appears  in  recipes,  but  the 
idea  as  to  what  is  really  meant  by  it  is  not  properly 
understood  in  English  kitchens.  The  correct  English 
word  for  ''  sauter  "  is  toss,  and  it  means  to  fry  quickly 
and  lightly  with  a  small  quantity  of  butter  or  oil,  just 
sufficient  to  keep  what  is  in  the  pan  from  burning  whilst 
it  is  being  cooked.  Sauter  should  therefore  not  be  con- 
fused with  either  roasting  or  frying. 

To  saute  meat  or  vegetables  is  to  cook  rapidly  on  a 
quick  fire.  Chicken  fillets,  finely-shredded  liver,  small 
beef  or  veal  fillets,  potatoes,  beans,  &c.,  are  sauteed  in 
either  butter  or  oil. 

Tossing  backwards  and  forwards  or  frequent  turning 


ELEMENTARY  METHODS  AND  RULES.      363 

until  the  articles  are  of  the  desired  colour  is  what  may 
be  truly  termed  saute. 

16,  To  Wann  tip  Cold  Meat. 

In  re-heating  meats  for  hash,  mince,  &c.,  it  is  very 
necessary  that  it  should  simmer  in  the  sauce  or  gravy 
for  at  least  three-quarters  of  an  hour.  The  slices  should 
not  be  cut  too  thin. 

In  simmering  the  meat  it  will  be  found  that  during 
the  first  twenty  minutes  the  fibre  becomes  somewhat 
horny  and  tough,  and  it  will  require  at  least  another 
twenty-five  minutes  longer  to  soften  the  meat  and  to 
acquire  a  more  palatable  flavour.  It  is  quite  a  mistake 
to  warm  up  meat  in  a  hurry,  for  by  so  doing  you  will 
only  render  it  tough  and  tasteless. 

Kedressing  viands  which  have  appeared  previously 
on  the  table  is  an  art  in  itself,  and  the  art  lies  in  the 
knowledge  to  make  such  dishes  tempting  in  appearance, 
agreeable  to  the  palate,  tender  and  tasty. 

1 7.  To  Truss  Poultry  for  Hoasting, 

Turkey. — Break  the  legs  near  the  toes,  fasten  on  to 
a  hook,  and  pull  off  so  as  to  draw  the  sinews  from  the 
legs.  Put  the  bu'd  on  to  a  board,  breast  downwards, 
head  toward  you.  Take  hold  of  the  head  with  your 
left  hand,  and  cut  a  slit  in  the  back  of  the  neck  with 
your  right  hand  ;  then  loosen  the  skin  round  the  neck, 
cut  ofi'  the  neck  close  to  the  body,  also  the  skin,  leaving 
it  about  2  inches  long,  so  as  to  fold  it  over  the  back. 
Remove  the  crop  carefully  ;  put  the  forefinger  in  the 
throat  end,  and  loosen  the  inside  round  the  carcase. 
Make  an  incision  at  the  vent  just  large  enough  to  put 
in  your  fingers,  loosen  the  inside,  taking  care  not  to 
break  the  gall-bag,  then  draw  out  the  whole  of  the  in- 
side. Break  the  breast  bone  if  necessary,  and  flatten  it ; 
turn  the  bird  on  its  back,  press  the  legs  downwards,  and 
fasten  them  with  a  skewer.  Fold  over  the  skin  of  the 
neck  and  twist  in  the   wings,   fasten   with   string  by 


864 


RECHERCHE    COOKERY. 


means  of  a  trussing  needle  so  as  to  make  the  bird  neat 
in  appearance  ;  tie  the  knots  at  the  side.  Stuffing  may 
be  inserted  at  the  neck  or  in  the  body  of  the  bird  before 
being  skewered  or  tied.  In  place  of  string  a  skewer 
can  be  used  to  fasten  the  wings  the  same  as  the 
legs. 

Chickens  and  Pigeons. — Proceed  in  the  same  manner 
as  a  turkey.  The  sinews  need  not  be  pulled  out,  the 
feet  should  only  have  the  tips  of  the  toes  cut  off.  Cut 
off  the  neck  close  to  the  body,  cut  the  skin  of  the  neck 
so  as  to  leave  sufficient  to  cover  over  the  back.  Fold 
in  or  twist  the  wings  (pinions)  so  that  the  ends  are 
brought  across  the  back  of  the  bird,  press  down  the 
legs  and  fasten  with  string,  which,  as  for  turkeys,  should 
be  run  through  the  joint  of  the  thighs. 

For  Boiling. — Fowls  for  boiling  are  treated  the  same 
as  for  roasting,  with  the  exception  that  the  legs  are  cut 
off  at  the  first  joint.  This  done,  loosen  the  skin  round 
the  legs  until  it  can  be  pulled  over  them  and  the 
latter  can  be  pushed  inside  the  body,  after  which  make 
a  slit  in  the  skin  sufficiently  large  to  pass  the  tail  of  the 
fowl  through  it.  This  is  done  to  give  it  a  better 
appearance. 


Capon,  Tbussed  and  Baeded. 


Ducks  and  Geese  are  trussed  in  the  same  way  as  a 
turkey,  but  the  first  joint  of  the  wings  (pinions)  are  cut 
off.  The  feet  of  ducks  should  only  have  the  tips  of  the 
toes  cut  off.  Stuffing  is  inserted  either  in  the  neck 
or  in  the  body.  In  trussing  always  turn  the  birds  back 
upon  the  body,  keeping  the  legs  firmly  to  the  sides, 


ELEMENTARY  METHODS  AND  RULES.      365 

pull  the  skin  over  the  tail,  slit  the  skin  and  pass  the  tail 
through  it  the  same  way  as  for  boiled  fowl. 


Boiled  Fowl. 

18,  To  JPich  or  Pluck  Birds, 

Hold  the  bird  you  wish  to  pluck  with  your  left  hand 
on  your  lap,  pull  off  the  feathers,  commencing  at  the 
top  of  the  breast.  When  picked  all  over,  singe  (hold  it 
over  a  flame,  gas  or  methylated  spirit)  to  remove 
any  small  feathers,  hairs,  or  down. 

There  is  another  way  of  plucking  birds,  but  it 
requires  practice,  else  it  is  apt  to  spoil  the  appearance. 
Plunge  the  bird  into  very  hot,  but  not  boiling, 
water  for  about  a  minute,  then  commence  to  pull  off 
the  feathers.  If  left  too  long  in  the  water  the  skin 
becomes  tender  and  is  likely  to  become  detached  in 
picking. 


Chicken,  Trussed  for  Roasting. 

19,  Boning  Poultry  or  Game, 

To  bone  poultry  or  game  properly,  they  must  first 
be  picked  and  lightly  singed.     Next  cut  or  pull  off  the 


S66  RECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

legs,  a  portion  of  the  neck  and  the  pinions,  keeping  the 
skin  of  the  neck  as  long  as  possible.  Carefully  remove 
the  crop. 

Now  commence  to  free  the  flesh  from  the  carcass, 
beginning  at  the  neck  portion.  A  small  sharp  knife 
may  be  used  for  this  purpose.  Continue  to  strip  off  the 
flesh  thus  until  the  carcass  is  quite  detached  from  the 
flesh.  When  you  arrive  at  the  thighs,  dislocate  the  first 
joints,  and  remove  the  bones,  separate  also  the  stumps 
from  the  wings.  The  nerves  which  are  found  in  the 
thighs  should  be  pulled  out  when  the  legs  are  cut  off. 

Boned  poultry  or  game  are  generally  used  for  stuffing. 
It  is  best  not  to  draw  the  birds  until  after  the  flesh  is 
removed.  The  bones,  &c.,  should  be  used  for  stock  or 
fumet  de  gibier,  for  sauces,  &c..  No.  236. 

20,  Table  showing  the  Average  Time  required 
for  Baking  Meat  or  Birds. 

The  exact  time  required  for  all  joints  depends 
necessarily  on  a  variety  of  circumstances,  the  kind  of 
fire  employed,  size  and  thickness  of  a  joint,  the  time  of 
year,  &c.,  by  which  the  cook  must  be  guided,  and  use  his 
or  her  judgment. 

Beef  (should  be  rather  under  than  over  done). 
A  joint  of  beef  weighing  20  lbs.  requires     .     4^  hours. 

1(1  91 

>)  >»  ■^^         >5  >)  •         ^2  " 

(\  1  3_0 

)>  ))  ^        5>  >>  •     ■'•4     ^      >> 

Mutton. 

A  joint  of  mutton  weighing  10  lbs.  requires  2^  hours. 

fi  1^ 

Lamb  (should  be  well  done). 
A  leg  of  lamb  requires       .         .         .     about  1|  hours. 

Veal  (requires  to  be  well  done). 
A  joint  of  veal  weighing  10  lbs.  requires        .     3  hours. 

Pork  (requires  to  be  well  done). 
A  joint  of  pork  weighing  8  lbs.  requires         .     3  hours. 


ELEMENTARY  METHODS  AND  RULES. 


36T 


Venison  (should  on  no  account  be  overdone). 
A  joint  of  venison  weighing  10  lbs.  requires  2^  hours. 


6 


n 

4 


A  haunch  of  venison 

Turkey  or  Goose. 

A  large -sized  turkey  requires  . 

A  medium- sized  turkey  or  goose  requires 

A  small  turkey  or  turkey  poult  requires 

Capon  Fowl. 
A  poularde  or  capon  requires 
A  large  fowl  requires    . 
A  medium- sized  fowl  requires 
A  gosling  requires 

Hare. 
A  hare  requires    . 
A  leveret  requires 
A  rabbit  requires 

Pheasant. 
A  large  pheasant  requires 
A  small  pheasant 
A  pigeon  requires 
A  partridge  requires     . 

Game. 
Black  game  requires    . 
A  woodcock  requires    . 
A  grouse  requires 
A  quail  requires 
A  golden  plover  requires 
A  snipe  requires 
A  fig-pecker  requires  . 
A  teal  requires     . 
Ortolans  require 
Larks  require 

Brown  Meats,  such  as  beef  and  mutton,  whether 
served  as  roast  or  removes,  should  rather  be  under  than 
over  done. 

Veal,  pork,  lamb  and  poultry,  pheasants  and  part- 
ridges require  to  be  well  done. 


2  j-3  hours. 
14-2      „ 

.    IJ  hours. 

.  1    „ 

o 

•  4        » 

about  1      ,, 

about  IJ  hours. 
>)      J-       ), 

3 

>»  4  »» 

about    I  hour. 

30-35  minutes. 
20-25 


1  hour  to  IJ  hours. 

.    about   ^   hour. 
1 

»»  2  » 

from  25-30  minutes. 

„  25-30 

„  25-30 

„  20-25 

„  20-25 

„  15-20 

„  15-20 


368  RECHEECHE    COOKERY. 

The  great  secret  of  cooking  game  perfectly  is  con- 
stant basting.  It  should  be  rather  under  than  over 
done.  Just  a  tint  of  red  in  the  middle  and  full  of 
gravy. 

21,  To  Mash,  Line  or  Coat  3Ioul(1s,  ttc. 

Put  some  crushed  ice  in  a  basin  or  shallow  tin  ; 
wipe  the  mould  or  moulds  thoroughly  dry,  then  pour  in 
almost  cold  but  still  liquid  aspic  or  sweet  jellies,  or 
chaud-froid  sauce.  Put  the  mould  on  the  ice  and  keep 
moving  round  until  the  liquid  completely  covers  the 
sides  and  bottom.  When  the  liquid  begins  to  set  pour 
out  the  remainder,  and  put  the  mould  back  on  the  ice. 
If  a  thick  layer  of  coating  is  required,  repeat  the  same 
operation  about  10  or  15  minutes  later. 

22.  To  Unmoald, 

Have  a  basin  of  luke-warm  water  (about  115  to  120 
degrees  Fahr.),dip  in  the  mould  quickly  for  a  second 
or  two  ;  remove  it  quickly,  hold  securely,  give  it  a  brisk 
shake,  and  turn  on  to  a  cold  dish.  Eemove  the  mould 
as  soon  as  the  contents  become  detached. 

23,  Hints  on  Boiling  Vegetables, 

All  green  vegetables  should  be  put  on  the  fire  into 
fast  boiling  slightly  salted  water,  so  that  they  may  be 
brought  quickly  to  the  boiling  point  again.  They  should 
never  be  left  to  steep  too  long  in  cold  water  before 
boiling,  as  this  will  tend  to  toughen  them,  and  in  many 
cases  destroys  colour  and  flavour. 

Green  vegetables,  such  as  greens,  cabbage,  brocoli, 
savoys,  green  artichokes,  French  beans,  peas,  &c.,  also 
cauliflowers  and  asparagus,  must  be  boiled  in  water  con- 
taining a  small  piece  of  soda  (about  the  size  of  a  small 
filbert)  in  addition  to  the  salt.  This  retains  the  natural 
colour,  extracts  some  of  the  strong  flavour,  and  in  the 
case  of  greens  &c.  the  addition  of  soda  is  said  to  make 
these  vegetables  more  digestible.  Soda  may  be  sub- 
stituted with  brown  sugar. 


ELEMENTAEY  METHODS  AND  RULES.      369 

As  soon  as  cooked  strain  quickly,  as  to  let  them 
remain  longer  in  the  water  than  is  necessary  is  ruinous. 
Keep  the  vegetables  hot  in  a  dish  over  or  in  hot  water 
till  required  for  serving.  Over-done  or  under-done 
vegetables  are  injurious  to  health. 

24,,  To  Blanch  Vegetables. 

Vegetables  are  usually  blanched  in  order  to  extract 
some  of  their  bitter  flavour  or  to  soften  them.  Parsley, 
tarragon,  chervil,  onions,  shallots,  &c.,  are  best  blanched 
by  plunging  them  several  times  into  boiling  water. 

All  green  vegetables  should  be  blanched  in  copper 
stewpans  in  order  to  retain  their  delicate  green  colour. 

All  vegetables  &c.  required  to  be  blanched  are  put 
on  the  fire  in  cold  water,  and  must  be  brought  quickly 
to  the  boil,  and  then  be  drained  and  cooled  in  cold 
water. 

Blanching  is  the  prefix  of  the  method  of  cooking, 
which  is  accomphshed  in  boiling  in  salted  water. 

25,  To  Blanch  Bice^  &c. 

Rice,  macaroni,  &c.,  should  always  be  blanched 
before  it  is  put  on  to  finish  cooking.  Rice  should  be 
picked  and  washed  in  several  waters.  It  is  put  on  the 
fire  with  plenty  of  cold  water  to  well  cover.  It  must 
be  brought  quickly  to  boil  and  then  put  into  a  sieve  to 
drain,  allowing  cold  water  to  run  over  so  as  to  cool  it. 

26,  To  Clarify  Fat. 

Cut  the  fat  (beef  or  sheep's  kidney  suet  is  best  for 
frying  purposes)  into  pieces  about  half  an  inch  in  size  ; 
remove  any  coarse  skin  &c.  which  may  be  on  the  fat, 
put  the  pieces  in  an  iron  stewpan,  add  about  one  gill 
of  cold  water  to  every  pound  of  fat,  cook  over  a  slow 
fire,  stir  from  time  to  time  to  prevent  it  from  burning ; 
when  sufiiciently  cooked,  which  will  be  seen  when  it 
ceases  to  froth  and  the  liquid  is  quite  clear,  move  it  to 


370  EECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

the  corner  of  the   stove   to  cool   a   little,  then   strain 
through  a  sieve. 

27.  Frying  in  Fat  or  Oil, 

Successful  frying  depends  upon  the  fat  being^ 
perfectly  hot  (boiling),  the  use  of  clean  utensils,  a  brisk 
p.nd  bright  fire,  and,  above  all,  plenty  of  clean  and  good 
fat.  Anything  that  is  fried  should  be  served  directly 
it  is  taken  from  the  fire  and  well  strained.  Fried  dishes 
should  never  be  covered  over,  for  that  renders  them  soft 
or  else  tough. 

28.  To  Clarify  Butter. 

Put  the  butter  in  a  stewpan  or  saute-pan,  let  it  dis- 
solve and  cook  slowly,  then  skim  off  the  scum  and  all 
impurities.  The  butter  is  ready  for  straining  as  soon  as 
a  blue  smoke  appears.  Strain  through  a  fine  hair-sieve 
or  pointed  strainer  into  a  basin,  let  it  stand  to  settle, 
then  pour  gently  into  another  basin  so  as  to  keep  out 
the  sediment. 

29.  Liquid  Caramel. 

Put  a  pound  of  loaf,  castor,  or  moist  sugar  into  a 
copper  stewpan  or  sugar  boiler.  Add  about  half  a  gill 
of  water,  and  let  it  dissolve ;  stir  over  a  slow  fire  and 
cook  until  a  dark  brown  colour  ;  when  a  whitish  smoke 
appears  it  is  a  sign  that  the  sugar  is  done.  Remove  it 
from  the  fire,  pour  on  about  a  pint  of  boiling  water, 
allow  this  to  boil  up  whilst  stirring,  and  cook  till  it  has 
the  appearance  of  a  syrup  ;  when  cool  put  it  in  a  corked 
bottle  and  use  as  required. 

Caramel  should  be  used  with  discretion.  Good 
cooks  rarely  use  it,  for  it  is  apt  to  impart  a  bitter  taste 
if  used  too  freely.  It  is  principally  used  for  colouring 
clear  soups,  gravies,  and  sauces,  and  sometimes  jellies. 

80.  Saiunure  (Brine)  Fickle,  for  Beef  or  Fork. 

Two  gallons  water  (soft) ;  6  lbs.  coarse  salt ;  J  lb. 
brown  sugar  ;  1^  oz.  saltpetre. 


ELEMENTARY  METHODS  AND  RULES.      371 

Put  all  the  above  in  a  stewpan,  let  come  to  the 
boil,  skim,  and  boil  for  about  twenty  minutes ;  pour 
into  a  covered  pan  or  tub  and  use  when  cold.  Meat 
should  lay  in  pickle  from  eight  to  ten  or  more  days, 
according  to  the  size.  In  pickling  tongues  a  separate 
pan  should  be  used  ;  these  usually  take  from  three  to 
four  weeks  to  pickle. 

31,  Dry  JPickling, 

1|  lb.  salt ;  1  oz.  saltpetre ;  ^  lb.  all-spice  ;  ^  lb. 
brown  sugar. 

First  rub  in  sugar  and  let  meat  lie  for  a  few  hours, 
then  rub  in  the  saltpetre  and  spice,  also  the  salt,  a 
little  at  the  time.  Turn  and  knead  meat  well,  let  it  lie 
in  a  cool  place  from  ten  to  twelve  weeks,  turning  it 
daily.     The  above  quantity  is  for  about  14  lbs.  of  meat. 

32.  Marinade. 

Marinade  is  the  name  applied  to  a  kind  of  preparation 
which  is  used  for  pickling  fish  or  meat.  It  is  more 
frequently  used  for  meat  than  fish.  Marinee  introduces 
a  savoury  aroma,  and  elevates  the  flavour  of  meats  &c., 
which  are  usually  allowed  to  lie  in  pickle  from  two  to 
three  days. 

A  marinade  will  keep  good  for  several  months  if 
boiled  up,  say,  every  four  days.  A  small  quantity  added 
to  brown  sauce  will  be  found  a  decided  improvement 
where  piquancy  is  required. 

33,  Marinade  JPicMe, 

One  quart  vinegar,  3  cloves,  1  onion  sliced,  1  carrot, 
\  lemon,  \  orange  sliced,  12  juniper  berries,  a  few 
coriander  seeds,  2  sprigs  of  thyme  and  tarragon,  2 
sprigs  of  marjoram,  1  of  sage,  20  peppercorns  and  2 
blades  mace,  \  pint  claret,  2  bayleaves.  Boil  the  vinegar 
and  claret  and  pour  over  the  other  ingredients.  It  is 
advisable  to  season  the  meat  -with  a  little  salt  before  it 
is  put  in  the  marinade. 

24 


372  RECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

S4:,  To  Wliip  Cream. 

Pour  the  cream  into  a  clean,  cool  basin  ;  whip  (at 
first  gently)  until  light  and  frothy. 

When  required  for  sweet  dishes,  mix  lightly  a  little 
plain  castor  or  vanilla-flavoured  sugar. 

When  whipped  sufficiently,  put  the  cream  on  to  a 
hair  sieve,  and  stand  in  a  cool  place  or  on  the  ice  until 
required. 

Always  whip  cream  or  whites  of  eggs  in  a  cool 
place,  or  on  the  ice  in  warm  weather.  Use  an  ordinary 
wire  whisk,  but  make  sure  it  is  perfectly  clean  and  dry 
before  using  it. 

35.  To  Whisk  Whites  of  Eggs. 

In  separating  the  whites  from  the  yolks  of  eggs,  the 
greatest  care  must  be  taken  not  to  let  the  least  portion 
of  the  yolks  get  into  the  whites,  otherwise  it  will  be- 
come impossible  to  whisk  the  whites  firm. 

Put  the  whites  of  eggs  in  an  egg  bowl  or  shallow 
basin,  first  making  sure  that  it  is  perfectly  clean,  dry, 
and  cool. 

Keep  the  whites  of  eggs  in  a  cool  place  until  wanted. 
Add  a  pinch  of  salt  and  commence  whisking  with  an 
ordinary  wire  whisk,  which  must  be  thoroughly  clean 
and  perfectly  dry.  Continue  to  whisk,  increasing  the 
pace,  until  it  forms  a  firm  and  substantial  mossy  froth. 

36.  To  Peel  Almonds  and  Pistachios, 

Pour  sufficient  boiling  water  over  the  almonds  or 
pistachios  to  well  cover  them  ;  let  them  soak  for  several 
minutes,  then  strain  and  put  in  a  basin  of  cold  water  to 
to  cool.  Drain  and  spread  them  on  a  cloth.  To  remove 
the  skin  press  each  between  the  thumb  and  fingers. 
This  done,  put  them  on  a  sieve  to  dry. 

To  Pound  Almonds. — Allow  the  peeled  almonds  to  dry 
thoroughly  in  a  slack  oven  for  about  ten  minutes.  Clean 
and  dry  the  mortar  ;  put  in  the  almonds  and  pound  with 
the  pestle ;  stir  well  and  continually  for  about  ten 
minutes,  else  they  are  apt  to  get  oily.  When  pounded 
put  them  on  a  cold  dish  and  use  as  required. 


ELEMENTARY  METHODS  AND  RULES.      373 

S7»  Egging  and  Crumbing, 

To  crumb  successfully,  use  the  following  proportions 
of  egging :  1  egg  well  beaten,  1  teaspoonful  of  sweet 
oil,  1  dessert-spoonful  of  milk,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  half 
a  pinch  of  pepper  (a  little  chopped  parsley  is  sometimes 
added).  Dip  the  article  required  to  be  crumbed  in  this 
mixture,  or  brush  over  well  and  cover  with  soft  or  dry 
bread  crumbs. 

Soft  or  fresh  crumbs  are  made  by  rubbing  the  soft 
portion  of  stale  bread  through  a  wire  sieve.  The  crusts 
of  bread  are  placed  in  a  baking  sheet  in  a  cool  oven, 
and  baked  to  a  bright  golden  colour.  They  are  then 
crushed  with  a  rolling  pin  or  pounded  in  a  mortar 
and  passed  through  a  sieve.  These  are  called  dry  crumbs 
or  raspings,  and  are  sometimes  used  in  place  of  fresh 
crumbs. 

38.  Frying  Batter  (Pate  a  frire). 

Sift  4  oz.  of  flour  into  a  basin  ;  add  \  oz.  of  oiled 
butter,  a  pinch  of  salt,  1  yolk  of  egg,  and  1  table- 
spoonful  of  cream  ;  mix  this  well  with  a  wooden  spoon, 
and  dilute  gradually  with  about  half  a  gill  of  lukewarm 
water,  work  it  well  until  the  paste  becomes  quite 
smooth.  Allow  it  to  stand  for  about  half  an  hour  or 
more,  and  when  you  require  to  use  some  whisk  two 
whites  of  eggs  to  a  stifl:  froth  and  mix  gently.  The 
batter  is  then  ready  for  use. 

If  intended  for  fruit  fritters  add  a  teaspoonful  of 
castor  sugar ;  if  for  fish  or  meat  a  few  drops  of  lemon 
juice  added  to  the  batter  will  be  found  an  improve- 
ment.    A  thinnish  batter  is  preferable  to  a  thick  batter. 

39,  Fate  a  Chouoc  (CJioux  Faste),  for 
general  use, 

3  oz.  butter,  1^  gill  water,  4  oz.  flour  (sifted),  2  whole 
and  1  yolk  of  eggs,  salt,  and  a  pinch  of  castor  sugar. 

Put  the  water  and  butter  in  a  small  stewpan,  add 
a  saltspoonful  of  salt  and  a  pinch  of  sugar  ;  bring  it 
to  the  boil.  Stir  in  the  flour,  work  vigorously  over  the 
fire  with  a  wooden  spoon,  continue  to  work  on  the 
stove  until  the  paste  leaves  the  sides  of  the  stewpan 


374  BECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

clean.  Let  it  cool,  and  add  by  degrees  the  eggs.  Use 
as  directed.  P.S. — ^Yhen  choux  paste  is  used  for  savoury 
or  soup  quenelles  the  sugar  should  be  omitted. 

S9a.  Meat  Glaxe  {Glace  de  Viande), 

Reduce  well-skimmed  and  strained  General  Stock, 
No.  83,  or  Eemouillage,  No.  84,  until  it  has  the  appear- 
ance of  Espagnole  sauce.  Stir  occasionally  to  avoid 
burning.  It  is  best  to  prepare  glaze  in  two  boilings, 
that  is,  to  partially  reduce  it  on  one  day  and  to  finish  it 
the  next.  If  found  cloudy,  add  a  little  cold  water  ;  this 
will  clear  it.  Skim  well,  and  pour  in  a  basin  for  use. 
To  keep  glaze,  pour  over  a  layer  of  clarified  butter 
before  the  glaze  is  quite  set. 

To  glaze  meats,  &c.,  warm  up  the  glaze,  dip  in  a 
brush,  and  paint  over  the  desired  articles. 

40.  Table  of  Weights  and  Measures  used  in  the 

Kitchen, 

1  lb. =16  oz.=455  grammes=8  large  eggs  ; 

i  lb.=  8  oz.=227  grammes =4  large  eggs,  or  two  cup- 

fuls  flour ; 
;ilb.=  4oz.=113  grammes =2  large  eggs,  or  1  teacup 

flour ; 
1  oz.=28  grammes=J  Qgg,  or  1  dessert-spoonful  butter  ; 
^  oz.=14  grammes =1  table-spoonful  flour. 
1  gallon=4  litres  54  centilit.=4  quarts; 
1  quart=l  litre  14  centilit=2  pints ; 
1  pint =57  centilit.=4  gills ; 

^  pint=28^  centilit.=2  gills,  or  1  teacupful  liquid  ; 
1  gill=14  centilit.=2  wineglassfuls  liquid  ; 
h  gill=  7  centilit.=l   wineglassful  liquid,  or  4  table- 
spoonfuls  liquid ; 
1  table-spoonful  liquid=4  teaspoonfuls. 

When  scales  or  measures  cannot  be  conveniently 
obtained,  the  following  will  be  found  useful  as  substi- 
tutes :  1  breakfast-cupful =^  lb.  of  flour  ;  1  small  break- 
fast-cupful =^  pint ;  1  small  teacupful=l  gill;  1  table- 
spoonful=l  oz.  dry  substance  ;  1  dessert-spoonful=l  oz. 
butter  or  lard. 


CHAPTER  II. 

HOES  D'CEUYEES  (COLD). 

41.  Beurre  (Butter). — Fresh  butter  is  usually 
served  at  most  dinners,  as  an  accompaniment  with 
hors  d'ceuvres.  It  is  served  in  little  pats,  in  the  shape 
of  small  shells  or  little  rolls  (thm  slices  rolled).  Serve 
in  little  boats  ;  in  hot  weather  put  a  little  iced  water  in 
each  boat ;  garnish  with  tiny  sprigs  of  curly  parsley. 

42.  Radis  (Radishes). — Choose  small,  round,  and 
firm  radishes  of  a  hght  red  and  white  colour.  Trim  and 
wash  them  in  plenty  of  water  (the  outer  skins  should 
be  scraped  off  and  the  leaves  cut  to  an  inch  in  length). 
Dish  up  in  little  boats,  or  glass  dishes,  with  a  little  cold 
water. 

43.  Cornichons  (Gherkins).— Choose  these  small, 
firm,  and  green,  and  serve  in  little  glass  dishes  neatly 
dressed,  moistened  with  a  little  French  wine  vinegar. 

44.  Olives. — Spanish  and  French  olives  are  the 
best  for  hors  d'ceuvres,  the  Spanish  being  the  most 
esteemed  ;  they  should  remain  on  the  table  until  the 
dessert  is  served.  Olives  destroy  the  taste  of  what  has 
been  previously  eaten,  hence  they  are  so  popular  a 
relish.  Choose  them  firm,  and  of  a  nice  green  colour. 
Steep  them  in  cold  water  before  serving;  dish  up  on 
small  dishes  or  boats  with  a  little  cold  water.  Never 
use  a  metal  fork  or  spoon  to  dress  them.  Those  left 
over  from  a  meal  should  be  rebottled  at  once  with  salted 
water,  else  they  ^vill  turn  black. 

45.  Concombre  (Cucumber). — Peel  very  thin  and 
cut  up  into  thin  slices,  lay  the  slices  on  a  dish,  sprinkle 
with  salt,  cover,  and  let  them  remain  thus  for  one  or 


376  RECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

two  hours.  Drain  well,  dish  up  on  small  glass  dishes, 
season  with  a  little  salad  oil  and  French  wine  vinegar. 
Sprinkle  over  some  chopped  parsley,  and  serve. 

46.  Salami,  Bologna,  Brunswick,  Lyons,  and  other 
Smoked  Sausages. — Cut  the  sausage  into  very  thin 
round  slices,  remove  the  skin,  dish  up  neatly,  garnish 
with  parsley  and  serve. 

47.  Royans  a  la  Bordelaise. — These  are  procured 
packed  in  oil,  usually  in  tins.  Dish  up  in  glass  dishes, 
garnished  with  some  parsley. 

Other  fish  preparations,  such  as  lax,  herrings 
(marine),  fillets  of  herring  (sour),  &c.,  are  served  as 
hors  d'ceuvres  in  the  same  manner. 

48.  Sardines. — Procure  an  18-oz.  tin,  choose  a 
well-known  brand.  Take  them  carefully  out  of  the  tin, 
wipe  each  slightly  with  a  a  cloth,  lay  them  in  small 
dishes,  moisten  with  a  little  sweet  oil,  garnish  with 
capers  and  sprigs  of  parsley.  Never  use  the  oil  out  of 
the  tin. 

49.  Bonnes  Bouches  de  Sardines. — 2|  oz.  of  sardine 
paste,  a  handful  of  small  cress,  1  dessert-spoonful  of 
sweet  oil,  1  teaspoonful  of  vinegar,  8  oz.  butter,  brown 
bread,  salt,  pepper,  and  cayenne  ;  2  hard-boiled  eggs, 
watercress  for  garnish. 

Cut  some  thin  slices  of  brown  bread,  put  2  oz.  of 
sardine  paste  in  a  mortar,  and  pound  with  the  yolks  of 
2  hard-boiled  eggs,  and  ih  oz.  of  butter.  Eub  through 
a  fine  sieve.  Spread  this  over  the  slices  of  bread.  Wash 
the  cress  and  cut  up  small,  season  with  oil,  vinegar, 
salt  and  pepper,  and  sprinkle  over  the  layer  of  paste. 
Place  another  slice  of  bread  on  top  and  press  together, 
spread  the  top  of  each  with  butter,  and  sprinkle  over 
thickly  with  finely-chopped  whites  of  hard-boiled  egg. 
Cut  them  into  fanciful  shapes,  or  strips  about  an  inch 
wide,  mix  some  sardine  paste  with  a  little  cream  or 
butter,  and  ornament  the  surface  by  means  of  a  forcing 
bag,  according  to  taste  and  fancy.  Dish  them  up  neatly 
on  a  folded  napkin  or  dish-paper,  and  garnish  with  some 
picked  watercress. 


HORs  d'ceuvres  (cold).  377 

50.  Anchois  (Anchovies). — AncJiois  d  Vhuile. — The 
best  and  most  suitable  anchovies  for  hors  d'oeuvres 
are  the  Gorgonas.  A  very  good  quaUty  also  comes  from 
Nice.  Soak  the  anchovies  in  cold  water  for  an  hour  or 
more,  then  take  out,  drain  on  a  cloth,  open  them  and 
take  out  the  bone,  trim  neatly,  dry  on  a  cloth,  dish  up, 
pour  a  little  sweet  oil  over  them,  garnish  with  parsley 
and  serve. 

51.  Anchois  a  la  Norvegienne. — Prepare  some  fillets 
of  Norwegian  anchovies,  trim  neatly  ;  have  ready  three 
hard-boiled  eggs,  chop  up  two  coarsely,  yoik  and 
white  separate ;  dish  up  in  hors-d'oeuvre  dishes  (little 
glass  dishes) ;  season  with  a  little  chopped  tarragon, 
chervil,  and  red  pepper ;  sprinkle  with  a  little  oil  and 
vinegar.  Place  the  anchovy  fillets  over  the  top  in  the 
shape  of  lattice  work ;  ornament  with  fancy  slices  of 
lemon,  quarters  of  hard-boiled  egg  and  parsley. 

52.  Petites  Tranches  de  Caviar  a  la  Remoulade 
(Small  Caviare  Slices,  Remoulade  Style). — Cut  twelve 
thin  oblong  slices  of  brown  bread,  pare  them  into  heart 
shapes,  about  an  inch  and  a  half  long.  Butter  the 
slices  slightly.  Mix  two  ounces  of  Russian  caviare 
carefully  with  a  squeeze  of  lemon,  a  teaspoonful  of 
chopped  shallots,  and  a  pinch  of  cayenne  pepper.  Spread 
the  slices  rather  thickly  with  the  caviare,  but  do  not 
use  a  knife  for  this  purpose,  as  steel  or  metal  injures 
the  flavour  of  it.  Have  ready  a  teaspoonful  of  stiff 
mayonnaise,  mix  gently  with  one  of  cold  bechamel  sauce, 
one  hard-boiled  egg  yolk  passed  previously  through  a 
fine  wire  sieve,  chopped  parsley,  fennel  leaves,  tarragon 
leaves,  and  shallots,  half  a  teaspoonful  of  each,  also 
half  a  teaspoonful  of  prepared  mustard,  and  one  of  con- 
centrated tomato  puree.  Work  all  vigorously,  fill  in 
a  paper  cornet,  and  ornament  the  caviare  slices  to  taste. 
Dish  up  on  small  round  dishes,  and  stand  in  a  cool  place 
until  required. 

53.  Canapes  au  Caviar.  —  Prepare  some  slices  of 
toasted  bread,  spread  them  well  with  butter,  stamp  out 
some  rounds  about  one  and  a  half  inches  in  diameter, 


378  KECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

spread  these  on  one  side  thickly  with  Russian  caviare, 
place  half  a  stoned  Spanish  olive  in  the  centre  of  each, 
put  a  sprig  of  parsley  or  watercress  on  top  of  the  olives, 
dish  up  and  serve  cold.  Or  if  required  to  be  served 
hot,  put  the  rounds  of  toast  with  caviare  in  a  hot  oven 
for  five  minutes,  then  dish  up  and  put  the  olives  on  them 
just  before  sending  to  table.  In  either  case  the  dish 
should  be  garnished  with  fanciful  cut  slices  of  lemon 
and  hard-boiled  whites  of  egg. 

54.  Caviar  aux  Ecrevisses. — 2  oz.  Russian  caviare, 
1  shallot  finely  chopped,  ^  lemon,  a  pinch  of  cayenne, 
8  stoned  olives,  16  small  prawns,  2  large  gherkins, 
bread  for  croutes,  clarified  butter  for  frying,  parsley. 

Cut  some  slices  of  stale  bread  a  quarter  of  an  inch 
thick,  stamp  out  with  a  plain  cutter  eight  rounds  about 
an  inch  and  a  half  in  diameter,  fry  them  in  butter  a 
light  golden  colour,  drain  on  paper  or  cloth  and  put  to 
cool. 

Put  the  caviare  in  a  basin,  add  a  few  drops  of  lemon 
juice  and  the  chopped  shallot,  season  with  cayenne  and 
stir  gently  with  a  wooden  spoon  or  fork.  Cut  eight 
thin  slices  of  lemon,  place  one  on  each  of  the  bread 
croutes,  put  about  a  teaspoonful  of  caviare  on  each  of 
them,  placed  a  stoned  olive  in  the  centre,  and  arrange 
two  picked  prawns  on  each  of  the  croutes.  Put  a  tiny 
sprig  of  parsley  in  the  centre  of  each  olive.  Dish  up 
on  a  warm  glass  dish  in  a  circle.  Shred  the  gherkins 
and  put  in  the  centre.  Ornament  with  a  few  prawn 
heads  and  serve. 

55.  Canapes  a  la  Capucine.  —  4  slices  of  brown 
bread,  4  oz.  hygienic  or  Astrachan  caviare,  8  to  10 
prawns,  1  hard-boiled  egg,  ^  oz.  butter,  1  table- spoonful 
mayonnaise,  a  few  sprigs  small  cress. 

Stamp  out  8  to  10  oval  pieces  of  bread  about  2  inches 
long,  J  of  an  inch  wide.  Cream  the  butter  and  mayon- 
naise sauce  together,  spread  one  side  of  each  slice  of 
bread  with  this,  put  a  layer  of  cavaire  on  top.  Remove 
the  heads  from  the  prawns,  free  them  from  skin,  split 
open  and  place  one  on  each.     Rub  the  yolk  of  hard- 


HORS  d'ceuvres  (cold).  379 

boiled  egg  through  a  sieve,  put  a  Uttle  in  the  centre  of 
the  canapes,  ornamented  with  httle  sprigs  of  washed 
small  cress,  dish  up  on  a  dish-paper  in  a  pyramidal 
form,  place  the  heads  of  prawns  on  the  top,  and  serve. 

66.  Tartines  de  Caviar  en  Chaud-froid. — Put  the 
contents  of  a  small  jar  of  Russian  caviare  into  a 
basin,  add  a  finely-chopped  shallot  and  a  teaspoonful  of 
lemon-juice,  stir  gently  with  a  loooden  spoon  or  fork. 
Cut  some  thin  slices  of  brown  bread,  butter  them,  and 
spread  one  side  with  the  prepared  caviare,  close  up  two 
shces  and  press  together  tightly.  Stamp  out  some 
rounds  with  a  pastry-cutter  an  inch  and  a  half  in 
diameter.  Dissolve  an  ounce  of  meat  glaze  in  two  table- 
spoonfuls- of  rich  brown  sauce,  add  a  gill  of  aspic  jelly 
and  a  few  drops  of  caramel,  pass  through  a  fine  strainer, 
when  cooling,  mask  thickly  one  side  of  each  sandwich 
with  this  sauce.  Dissolve  a  gill  of  aspic  jelly  and  mix 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  double  cream,  and  a  few  drops  of 
lemon-juice,  let  it  cool  a  little,  and  mask  the  other  sides 
of  the  sandwiches.  When  set  run  a  little  half-set  aspic 
jelly  over  the  surface  of  each,  and  put  them  on  the  ice  to 
set.  Place  a  round  piece  of  toasted  bread  in  the  centre  of 
a  dish,  dress  the  sandwiches  in  a  circle  round  the  toast, 
alternately  one  white  and  one  brown ;  put  a  handful 
of  dressed  salad,  such  as  lettuce,  endive,  cress,  and 
radishes  in  the  centre,  put  the  remainder  of  the  caviare 
neatly  on  the  top,  keep  on  the  ice  until  required  for  table. 

57.  Brissolettes  de  Caviar.  —  Procure  four  or  six 
very  small  farthing  rolls,  cut  them  in  halves,  and  trim 
the  edge  to  make  them  stand  firmly,  scoop  out  the 
crumbs  and  stand  in  a  cool  oven  to  dry.  Have  ready 
some  stiff  mayonnaise  sauce,  add  to  it  enough  liquid 
aspic  jelly  to  stiffen  the  sauce,  line  the  inside  of  the 
rolls  when  cold  with  this,  and  let  set.  Put  a  dessert- 
spoonful of  *' Russian  caviare"  in  the  centre  of  each 
roll,  place  a  little  chopped  aspic  jelly  on  the  top  of 
each  or  fill  up  with  a  layer  of  half- set  aspic.  Ornament 
the  surface  with  small  strips  of  filleted  anchovies,  dish 
up,  garnish  with  parsley,  and  serve  when  quite  set. 


380  RECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

If  unable  to  get  the  rolls  small  enough,  stamp  out 
some  rounds  of  bread,  half  an  inch  thick,  scoop  out  some 
of  the  crumbs,  fry  in  butter,  let  cool,  and  proceed  as 
above. 

68.  Caviar  en  Salade.— Put  two  table-spoonfuls  of 
best  olive  oil  in  a  salad  bowl,  add  a  table-spoonful  of 
vinegar,  stir  in  with  a  wooden  fork  or  spoon  the  contents 
of  a  small  pot  of  "  Russian  caviare."  Slice  one  hard- 
boiled  egg  and  two  ripe  tomatoes,  mix  carefully  with 
the  above,  adding  a  pinch  of  cayenne  pepper,  and  a  Uttle 
salt  if  needed.  Dish  up  neatly  on  little  glass  dishes, 
sprinkle  over  a  little  finely  chopped  parsley.  Ornament 
the  dishes  with  some  slices  of  hard-boiled  egg  and 
tomato,  and  serve. 

69.  Croutons  a  I'Espagnole. — Cut  eighteen  round 
slices  of  bread  about  an  inch  and  a  half  in  diameter 
and  one-eighth  of  an  inch  thick,  fry  in  butter,  drain. 
Stone  as  many  large  Spanish  olives  with  a  sharp  tube 
cutter ;  fill  with  some  stiff  Tartare  sauce  ;  place  one  in 
the  centre  of  each  crouton,  curl  an  anchovy  fillet  round 
it ;  garnish  with  finely-chopped  hard-boiled  egg,  lobster 
coral,  and  sprigs  of  parsley.  Dish  up  on  small  hors- 
d'oeuvres  dishes,  and  serve. 

60.  Then  Marine  (Tunny  Fish). — The  tunny  is  a 
kind  of  fish  which  resembles  the  cod ;  it  is  preserved 
or  marinated  in  oil.  The  flesh  is  very  firm,  has  a 
delicate  flavour,  and  looks  very  much  like  cooked  veal ; 
it  makes  a  highly-esteemed  hors  d'oeuvre,  but  is  hardly 
ever  served  otherwise.  To  serve  it,  cut  some  thin  slices, 
arrange  them  on  oblong  or  round  glass  dishes  in  rows 
overlapping  one  another.  Ornament  the  sides  alternately 
with  little  heaps  of  chopped  capers  and  chopped  parsley. 
Pour  a  little  sweet  oil  over  the  fish  just  before  sending 
to  table. 

61.  Croutes  aux  Eerevisses  a  la  Tartare  (Croutes 
of  Crayfish,  Tartare  Style). — Procure  six  to  eight  small 
round  dinner  rolls  (usually  called  farthing  rolls)  ;  cut 
these  in  equal  halves,  scoop  out  the  crumbs  and  allow 
the  crusts  to  dry.     In  the  meantime  prepare  a  mixture 


HORS  d'(euvres  (cold).  'B81 

of  eighteen  large  prawns  picked,  one  large  gherkin,  six 
anchovy  fillets,  and  the  white  part  of  a  hard-boiled  egg, 
all  of  which  are  minced  rather  fine.  Put  these  into  a 
basin  and  season  with  a  ladleful  of  Tartare  sauce ;  put 
a  little  mustard  and  cress  at  the  bottom  of  each  crust 
and  fill  up  with  the  preparation  ;  stamp  out  some  thin 
slices  of  aspic  jelly,  cover  the  surface  of  each  with  a  slice, 
fasten  the  heads  of  prawns  in  the  centre  of  each  with  a 
little  lobster  butter ;  ornament  the  edges  with  lobster 
butter.  Dish  up  on  small  round  dishes,  garnish  with 
parsley,  and  serve. 

62.  Petites  Cassolettes  a  rEpicurienne  (Little 
Cases,  Epicurean  Style). — 2  oz.  preserved  lax,  2  oz.  cooked 
ox  tongue,  6  French  olives,  1|  oz.  fresh  butter,  2  French 
gherkins,  1  teaspoonful  of  chopped  parsley,  ^  teaspoon- 
ful  of  chopped  tarragon  and  chervil,  ^  table -spoonful  of 
wine  vinegar,  1  table-spoonful  of  sweet  oil,  ^  stick 
celery,  about  ^  lb.  cassolette  paste. 

Prepare  the  cassolette  paste  as  given  below,  roll 
out  very  thin  ;  line  ten  or  twelve  little  round  fluted 
moulds,  place  a  round  of  buttered  paper  in  each,  fill 
up  with  rice  and  bake  for  fifteen  minutes  in  a  mode- 
rately heated  oven.  Take  out  rice  and  papers,  replace 
them  on  a  baking  sheet  in  the  oven,  so  that  they  become 
quite  crisp,  then  put  on  sieve  to  cool.  Cut  the  lax,  tongue, 
and  gherkins  into  little  strips ;  season  lightly  with  oil, 
vinegar,  and  chopped  herbs  ;  fill  the  little  cases  carefully 
with  this ;  stone  the  olives,  and  place  one  in  the  centre 
of  each.  Cream  the  butter,  put  it  in  a  forcing  bag 
or  paper  cornet  with  a  fancy  piping  tube,  and  ornament 
the  edges  and  surface  to  taste.  Keep  in  a  cool  place 
until  required  for  table,  then  dish  up  on  little  round 
glass  saucers,  and  garnish  with  tiny  bunches  of  shredded 
celery  and  sprigs  of  parsley. 

63.  Cassolette  Paste. — ^  lb.  flour,  1^  oz.  butter,^  an 
egg,  a  little  water,  a  teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice,  a  pinch 
of  salt. 

Put  the  flour  into  a  basin,  add  the  salt  and  rub  in 
the   butter  until  quite  smooth ;  then  moisten  with  the 


382  RECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

egg,  the  lemon  juice,  and  a  very  little  water,  mix  the 
whole  thoroughly,  and  work  into  a  smooth  but  stiff 
paste.     Use  as  directed. 

64.  Rosettes  aux  Anchois. — 6  filleted  anchovies, 
8  small  mushrooms,  1  oz.  anchovy  paste,  J  oz.  butter,^ 

1  hard-boiled  egg,  chopped  parsley,  green  butter  for 
garnish,  bread  for  croutes,  clarified  butter  for  frying. 

Cut  the  bread  mto  slices  about  an  eighth  of  an  inch 
thick ;  stamp  out  some  rounds  about  2|  inches  in 
diameter  ;  mix  the  butter  and  anchovy  paste ;  rub  the 
yolk  of  egg  through  a  sieve,  and  chop  the  white  finely. 
Fry  the  rounds  of  bread  a  golden  colour  in  clarified 
butter,  drain,  and  cool.  Spread  thick  on  one  side  "svith 
anchovy  butter  ;  cut  the  anchovy  fillets  into  little  strips 
and  arrange  on  the  croutes  in  the  form  of  rosettes  ;  cut 
the  stems  of  8  small  preserved  mushrooms,  and  put  the 
heads  m  the  centre  of  each  ;  garnish  with  the  hard- 
boiled  white  and  yolk  of  egg  and  the  chopped  parsley, 
decorate  by  means  of  a  paper  cornet  with  green 
butter ;  dish  up  on  little  glass  dishes  and  serve. 

65.  Canapes  a  la  Turqiie. — 4^  oz.  butter,  4  yolks 
of  hard  boiled  egg,  4  Gorgona  anchovies  (boned),  3  oz. 
cooked  lean  ham,  1  oz.  blanched  parsley,  spinach  green- 
ing, 1  table- spoonful  brown  sauce,  bread  for  croutes,  and 
clarified  butter. 

Cut  some  bread  into  slices  about  two  inches  long 
and  half  an  inch  wide ;  fry  these  in  clarified  butter  a 
golden  colour  and  drain.  Let  cool.  Pound  the  ham 
till  fine,  add  a  little  sauce  to  produce  a  smooth  paste, 
also  ^  oz.  butter  and  1  yolk  of  hard-boiled  egg.  Spread 
thickly  one  side  of  the  prepared  bread  croutes.  Make 
three   different   kinds   of  butter :    yellow  by  pounding 

2  yolks  of  egg  and  2  oz.  of  butter ;  the  red  by  pound- 
ing 3  boned  anchovies  with  1  oz.  butter  and  a  little 
brown  sauce  ;  and  the  green  by  pounding  the  blanched 
parsley  with  1  oz.  butter,  1  anchovy,  and  1  yolk  of 
egg.  Season  the  butters  to  taste,  and  rub  separately 
through  a  fine  sieve.  By  means  of  a  forcing  bag  with 
a  rose  pipe  or  a  paper  cornet,  force  out  the  prepared 


HORS  d'(euvres  (cold).  383 

butter  alternately  in   the   shape  of  crossbars  on  the 
croutes,  dish  up  and  serve  cold. 

66.  Appetissants,  Macoimaise. — 3  hard-boiled  eggs, 
1  truffle,  2  gherkins,  3  red  chillies,  6  Gorgona  ancho- 
vies, ^  gill  well-reduced  bechamel,  2  blanched  mussels 
or  sauce  oysters,  J  oz.  butter,  a  pinch  pepper,  bread 
for  toast. 

Cut  some  slices  of  bread  about  ^  inch  thick,  toast  it 
slightly,  stamp  out  8  to  10  rounds  about  IJ  inches  in 
diameter  ;  hollow  out  the  centre  portion  of  each  suffi- 
ciently to  receive  the  puree  named  below.  Cut  the  eggs 
into  slices  about  ^  inch  thick,  take  out  the  yolk  and  put 
in  a  mortar  with  4  filleted  anchovies,  mussels,  or  oysters, 
and  the  butter  ;  pound  till  smooth,  season  with  a  pinch 
of  pepper,  add  the  bechamel  sauce,  mix  well  and  rub 
through  a  fine  sieve.  Fill  the  hollow  part  of  the  rounds 
of  toast  with  this,  garnish  the  surface  of  each  with  little 
strips  of  truffles,  gherkins,  chillies,  and  anchovies.  These 
will  look  best  if  put  on  in  the  form  of  lattice- work.  Put 
the  remainder  of  the  savoury  puree  in  a  paper  cornet  or 
forcing  bag  with  a  fancy  tube,  decorate  the  edges  artisti- 
cally.    Dish  up  on  little  glass  dishes  and  serve. 

67.  Canapes  a  la  Turbigo. — 4  small  rolls  (farthing 
rolls),  10  prawns  or  6  crayfish  tails,  1  small  head  of 
celery,  a  few  mixed  pickles,  a  little  aspic  jelly,  hard- 
boiled  whites  of  egg,  2  small  truffles,  a  spoonful  tomato 
juice,  capers,  and  parsley,  remoulade  sauce. 

Cut  the  prawns,  celery,  pickles  and  truffles  into 
small  dice.  Mix  with  a  little  remoulade  sauce,  which  is 
a  stiff  mayonnaise  sauce  mixed  wdth  finely-chopped 
parsley,  fennel,  tarragon  leaves,  shallots,  and  prepared 
mustard ;  add  to  this  just  sufficient  tomato  puree  to 
colour  it.  Cut  the  rolls  in  halves,  scoop  out  the  crumb, 
fill  with  the  mixture,  cover  the  surface  with  a  thin 
round  piece  of  aspic  jelly.  Garnish  with  strips  of  hard- 
boiled  whites  of  egg,  capers,  truffles  and  parsley  ;  serve 
on  small  dishes. 

68.  Tartines  a  la  Baroda  (Little  Sandwiches,  Baroda 
Styk).— 8   oz.   Patna    rice,   ^  lb.  cold   chicken  meat, 


384  RECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

2  oz.  butter  (fresh),  ^  gill  cream,  1  dessert- spoonful 
mulligatawny  paste,  1  dessert-spoonful  of  chutney, 
1  table-spoonful  Allemande  or  bechamel  sauce,  J  pint 
white  chaudfroid  sauce,  |  teaspoonful  curry  powder,  some 
aspic  jelly,  6  slices  of  brown  bread  buttered. 

Cut  up  the  chicken  and  put  in  a  mortar  together 
"vsith  the  butter,  mulUgatawny  paste,  and  chutney,  pound 
well  and  add  Allemande  or  bechamel  sauce.  When  quite 
finely  pounded  rub  all  through  a  sieve,  spread  half  the 
slices  of  brown  bread  thickly  with  a  layer  of  this  pre- 
paration ;  if  any  is  left  over  use  it  for  garnish.  Boil 
the  rice,  drain,  dry,  and  mix  with  a  little  cream,  and  let 
cool.  Cover  the  spread  slices  of  bread  with  plain  shoes 
of  buttered  brown  bread,  press  together,  cut  into  fingers, 
half- moon  or  heart  shapes.  Heat  up  the  chaudfroid 
sauce,  mix  it  with  sufficient  curry  powder  to  give  it  a 
greenish  tint.  When  nearly  cold  mask  the  slices  thus 
prepared,  and  when  the  sauce  is  set  glaze  them  with  a 
coating  of  half- set  aspic.  Dress  the  rice  on  small  round 
silver  dishes  in  the  shape  of  pyramids,  dress  the  tar- 
tines  neatly  round  each  dish.  Have  ready  some  set 
aspic  jelly,  cut  out  diamond  shapes  and  garnish  the 
dishes  with  these,  some  sprigs  of  green  salad,  and  some 
of  the  puree  left  over,  which  is  best  done  by  means  of 
a  paper  cornet  or  forcing-bag.  Keep  the  dishes  on  the 
ice  until  required  for  serving. 

69.  Tartines  a  la  Lucullus. — Take  half  a  pound 
of  puff  paste,  give  it  three  consecutive  turns,  besprinkle 
the  paste  each  turn  with  finely-grated  Parmesan  cheese. 
Roll  out  in  two  long  strips  about  three  inches  wide  and 
a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  and  cut  in  two  crossways. 
Mix  a  tablespoonful  of  anchovy  paste  with  sufficient 
anchovy  sauce  to  form  a  smooth  paste.  Spread  this 
evenly  over  one  side  of  the  paste,  and  cover  with  the 
other  strip.  Cut  it  into  small  squares  or  oblong  strips, 
place  on  a  baking  sheet,  prick  the  surface  of  them  with 
a  fork,  and  bake  in  a  moderately  heated  oven  to  a  nice 
light  brown.  When  baked  put  aside  to  cool.  In  the 
meantime   pound  the   following    in    a    mortar  : — Two 


HORS  d'ceuvres  (cold).  385 

hard-boiled  yolks  of  eggs,  one  ounce  of  fresh  butter, 
one  ounce  of  bloater  paste,  a  table- spoonful  of  veloute  or 
bechamel  sauce,  and  three  stoned  Spanish  olives.  Put 
all  through  a  fine  sieve.  Put  into  a  small  basin  and 
season  with  a  little  cayenne.  Put  this  puree  in  a 
paper  cornet,  cut  the  point,  and  form  an  ornamental 
border  on  the  top  of  each  tartine.  Place  half  a  stoned 
Spanish  olive  in  the  centre  of  each,  curl  a  strip  of 
anchovy  fillet  or  lax  round  each  olive,  strew  a  few 
shreds  of  cornichons  (pickled  French  gherkins)  round 
the  olives,  dish  up,  and  serve. 

70.  Appetissants  a  la  Suedoise. — 4  slices  of  stale 
brown  bread,  2  hard-boiled  eggs,  1^  oz.  butter,  1  oz. 
anchovy  paste,  4  Spanish  olives,  2  gherkins,  cooked 
beetroot,  4  slices  preserved  lax. 

Have  the  slices  of  bread  about  half  an  inch  thick. 
Cut  them  into  triangle  shapes,  trim  down  to  a  con- 
venient size.  Hollow  out  the  centre  of  each  by  means 
of  a  sharp-pointed  knife.  Fry  these  in  clarified  butter 
a  nice  golden  colour,  and  drain. 

Mix  the  yolks  of  hard-boiled  eggs,  butter,  and 
anchovy  paste  in  a  mortar,  fill  the  cavity  of  triangles 
when  cold  with  this  puree.  Cut  the  hard-boiled  whites 
of  eggs,  gherkins,  and  beetroot  into  small  strips.  Stone 
the  olives,  cut  in  halves,  and  fill  each  with  some  of  the 
above  puree,  place  half  a  slice  of  preserved  lax,  neatly 
shaped,  on  top  of  this,  and  arrange  the  strips  of  gher- 
kin, egg,  and  beetroot  alternately  crosswise  on  each 
triangle  so  as  to  form  a  lattice  pattern.  Put  a  half  of 
filled  ohve  in  the  centre  of  each,  garnish  with  a  few 
sprigs  of  parsley,  and  dish  up. 

71.  Nids  a  la  Chartres. — 2  hard-boiled  eggs,  IJ  oz. 
butter,  ^  teaspoonful  made  mustard,  1  small  tin  or 
terrine  foie-gras,  salt  and  pepper,  stale  bread. 

Cut  the  bread  into  slices  J  inch  thick.  Stamp  out 
eight  rounds  1^  inches  in  diameter ;  scoop  out  a  little 
of  the  centre  portion  of  each,  fry  in  clarified  butter  a 
golden  colour,  and  drain.  Remove  the  fat  from  the 
foie-gras,  cut  out  some  small  cubes  with  a  |-inch  cutter. 


386  RECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

Pound  the  trimmings  of  foie-gras  (without  any  pieces 
of  truffles)  in  a  mortar,  together  with  the  butter  and  the 
yolks  of  hard-boiled  eggs,  add  the  mustard  and  season 
to  taste,  mix  well  and  rulD  through  a  coarse  wire  sieve 
on  to  the  croutes  of  bread  so  as  to  cover  the  hollow 
sides  completely  with  the  puree  as  it  comes  through  the 
sieve.  Dish  up  carefully,  place  a  cube  of  foie-gras  in  the 
centre  of  each  ;  garnish  tastefully  with  hard-boiled  white 
of  egg,  truffles,  and  a  little  chopped  aspic  if  liked. 

72.  Olives  a  la  Tartare. — Stamp  out  some  slices 
of  brown  bread  with  a  1-inch  cutter.  Have  ready  a  gill 
of  stiff  Tartare  sauce  (see  Sauces)  in  which  has  been 
incorporated  half  a  gill  of  stiff  aspic  jelly.  Dip  each 
round  of  bread  in  the  sauce  to  mask  completely.  Place 
them  on  a  dish  to  set.  Stone  as  many  Spanish  olives 
as  there  are  rounds  of  bread,  fill  each  with  Tartare  sauce, 
place  one  in  the  centre  of  each  croute,  dish  up  on  little 
glass  dishes,  put  a  shrimp  tail  or  small  prawn  tail  in  each 
oHve,  garnish  with  parsley,  and  serve. 

The  rounds  of  bread  must  be  very  thickly  masked  ; 
if  not  satisfactory  at  first,  coat  them  for  a  second  or 
third  time. 

73.  Petites  Caisses  a  la  Cassanova. — Cut  half  a 
head  of  w'ashed  celery  and  one  large  truffle  into  fine 
Julienne  strips.  Season  with  a  little  mayonnaise  or  Tar- 
tare sauce  ;  fill  about  three  parts  some  very  small  paper 
cases  ;  lay  a  slice  of  hard-boiled  egg,  cut  out  to  size,  on 
top  of  this,  place  a  bearded  oyster  on  each,  and  garnish 
tastefully  with  ravigote  butter.  This  is  best  effected  by 
means  of  a  paper  cornet. 

74.  Simple  Dishes. — A  number  of  simple  hors 
d'oeuvres  may  be  prepared  with  various  kinds  of  fancy 
butter,  such  as  Montpellier,  anchovy,  lobster,  crayfish, 
shrimp,  ravigote,  maitre  d'hotel,  and  horseradish 
butter.  Any  of  the  above  named  can  be  shaped  into 
little  balls,  tiny  pats,  or  cubes,  served  on  little  squares 
of  crisp  toast,  very  small  lunch  biscuits,  or  Parmesan 
biscuits. 

Little  balls  of  butter  are  sometimes  dished  neatly  on 


HORs  d'ceuyres  (cold).  387 

small  china  or  glass  hors-d'oeuvre  dishes.  In  that  case, 
little  pieces  of  toast  or  biscuits  are  handed  round  at  the 
same  time. 

75.  Beurre  Montpellier  (Montpellier  Butter). — 
2  oz.  parsley,  chervil,  tarragon,  chives  and  cress, 
2  anchovies,  9  yolks  of  hard-boiled  eggs,  3  oz.  butter, 
1  teaspoonful  capers,  1  gherkin. 

Wash  and  pick  the  parsley,  cress,  and  herbs ; 
blanch  for  three  minutes,  strain  and  cool.  Drain  well 
in  a  cloth  and  pound  in  a  mortar.  Put  this  on  a  plate, 
and  clean  the  mortar.  Wipe  and  bone  the  anchovies  ; 
pound  them  in  a  mortar  with  the  egg-yolks,  capers, 
and  gherkins.  When  quite  smooth,  add  the  butter  and 
lastly  the  green  puree.  Mix  the  whole  well  together. 
Put  through  a  wire  sieve,  and  use  as  required.  A  little 
spinach  greening  may  be  added  if  the  herbs  should  not 
colour  the  butter  sufficiently. 

76.  Beurre  d'Anchois  (Anchovy  Butter). — 6  Gorgona 
anchovies,  2^  oz.  butter,  ^  lemon. 

Soak  the  anchovies  in  cold  water,  drain,  take  out 
the  bones,  wipe  dry  with  a  cloth,  pound  in  a  mortar 
with  the  butter ;  add  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  rub  through  a 
fine  sieve,  spread  on  a  plate,  put  on  the  ice  and  use  as 
directed. 

77.  Beurre  de  Homard  (lobster  Butter). — Procure 
the  eggs  and  coral  of  a  lobster,  wash  and  dry  well ; 
pound  in  a  mortar  with  double  its  quantity  of  fresh 
butter.  Eub  through  a  fine  sieve,  and  keep  in  a  cool 
place  till  required. 

78.  Beurre  d'Ecrevisses  (Crayfish  or  Shrimp 
Butter). — Pound  ^  pint  of  pickled  shrimps  or  prawns 
in  a  mortar  till  smooth,  add  3  oz.  of  fresh  butter,  4  oz. 
anchovy  paste  ;  mix  thoroughly  and  rub  through  a  fine 
sieve.  Keep  on  the  ice  till  wanted.  A  little  liquid 
carmine  or  cochineal  may  be  added  to  colour  if  found 
necessary. 

79.  Beurre  Ravigote  (Ravigote  or  Green  Butter). — 
Wash  and  pick  1^  oz.  chervil,  2  oz.  spinach,  ^  oz.  green 
chives,  1  oz.  tarragon,  |  oz.  parsley.     Put  it  in  a  sauce- 

25 


388  EECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

pan  with  water  and  blanch.  Drain  well,  and  pound  in 
a  mortar.  Peel  three  or  four  shallots,  chop  finely,  cook 
them  in  a  Httle  butter  until  of  a  golden  colour,  and  put 
with  the  herbs  ;  work  in  6  oz.  butter,  rub  through  a 
fine  sieve;  add  a  little  pepper  and  salt,  and  spinach 
greening  if  necessary.  The  butter  is  tlien  ready  for 
use. 

80.  Beurre  Maitre  d'hotel  (Maitre  d'hotel  Butter).— 
Mix  1  oz.  of  fresh  butter  with  1  teaspoonful  of  chopped 
parsley,  a  sprig  of  tarragon,  and  1  of  chervil  finely 
chopped,  1  teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice,  a  pinch  of  salt 
and  pepper.  Spread  on  a  plate,  put  on  the  ice,  and 
shape  into  pats  when  quite  firm. 

81.  Beurre  de  Raifort  (Horseradish  Butter). — Wash 
a  stick  of  horseradish,  scrape  off  the  outer  skin,  and 
grate  finely  the  white  part.  Mix  with  8  oz.  butter,  1 
teaspoonful  Chilli  vinegar,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  lemon 
juice  ;  season  with  pepper  and  salt.  Rub  through  a 
fine  sieve,  spread  on  a  plate,  and  put  on  the  ice.  Cut 
into  diamond  shapes  or  little  rounds,  and  serve  with 
grilled  fillets  of  beef  (tournedos)  or  steaks. 


CHAPTER  III. 

SOUPS  (POTAGES). 

82.  Stock  (Bouillon). — The  stock  is  wisely  called 
"  the  soul  of  cookery,"  for  it  forms  the  basis  of  soups, 
both  thick  and  clear,  purees  and  sauces.  It  is  also 
used  for  various  other  culinary  preparations. 

It  consists  really  of  the  juice  of  meat,  which  is 
extracted  by  the  process  of  long  and  gentle  simmering 
— or,  in  other  words,  stock  is  made  by  extracting  the 
goodness  out  of  the  material  used  into  the  liquor. 

The  constituent  parts  of  stock  are :  Osmazome, 
which  is  the  substance  obtained  from  animal  fibre  ; 
gelatine,  which  is  the  concentrated  animal  substance  ; 
and  fibrine,  which  is  the  albuminous  substance  found 
in  blood  (white  of  egg).  Osmazome  and  the  vegetables 
give  the  flavour,  and  the  albumen  and  gelatine  give 
the  strength  to  stock  ;  and  by  gradual  heat  the  albumi- 
nous matter  will  rise  on  top,  forming  the  scum,  bringing 
with  it  all  impurities,  which  is  removed  before  the  stock 
actually  boils. 

There  are  several  ways  of  preparing  stock.  It  may 
be  made  from  bones,  trimmings  of  joints,  poultry  and 
game,  in  conjunction  with  fresh  meat,  which  is  indis- 
pensable if  a  good  stock  is  to  be  obtained. 

Bones,  scraps  of  meat,  gravy  left  over  from  joint, 
should  not  be  thrown  away,  but  ought  to  find  their  way 
to  the  stock-pot,  so  as  to  extract  all  the  nutritious  pro- 
perties. No  good  cook  should  ever  be  without  a  stock- 
pot,  for  where  there  is  no  stock-pot  there  is  sure  to 
be  waste. 

Plenty  of  fresh  vegetables  (soup  vegetables),  and  an 
appropriate  quantity  of  soup  herbs  added  to  the  stock 
are  very  essential. 


390  RECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

Copper  tinned,  or  iron  tinned  stock-pots  are  the 
best  for  use,  because  they  can  be  kept  clean  with  greater 
ease  than  the  cast-iron  and  the  earthenware  pots,  which 
should  be  avoided  for  this  purpose. 

83.  General  Stock  for  a  good  Soup. — 1  lb.  of  veal 
(knuckle  part),  2  lbs.  shin  of  beef  (or  shoulder  part), 
3^  lbs.  bones  (beef  or  veal),  2  gallons  water,  2  oz.  salt, 
some  poultry  giblets  (cleaned),  2  carrots,  2  onions,  3  leeks, 
1  head  of  celery,  2  cloves  (stuck  in  the  onions),  1  parsnip, 
12  peppercorns,  1  small  bunch  of  sweet  herbs,  bayleaves, 
thyme,  and  plenty  of  parsley. 

If  the  meat  used  requires  boning,  take  out  the  bones 
and  tie  up  the  meat  with  string  ;  break  the  bones  with  a 
chopper  into  pieces.  Put  both  together  with  the  gib- 
lets in  the  stock-pot ;  add  the  salt  and  water  (cold),  and 
let  it  come  gently  to  the  boil.  When  nearly  boiling 
remove  the  scum  which  will  have  risen  to  the  top,  pour 
in  half  a  gill  of  cold  water,  and  skim  again.  Have 
the  above-named  vegetables  and  herbs  prepared,  and 
add  them  to  the  stock  with  the  peppercorns.  Let  the 
whole  come  to  the  boil ;  skim  again,  remove  the 
pot  to  the  side  of  the  stove,  or  if  a  gas-stove  is  used 
lower  the  flame,  and  let  it  simmer  slowly  for  five  hours. 
The  fat  which  rises  to  the  top  during  the  process  of 
simmering  should  be  carefully  taken  off  with  a  spoon. 
This  fat  should  be  put  aside  in  a  basin  and  used  up  with 
other  fat  when  clarifying  for  frying  purposes.  As  soon 
as  the  broth  or  stock  is  cooked  sujfficiently,  take  out  the 
meat  and  put  it  on  a  dish  to  be  used  up  in  some  form 
or  for  second  stock.  Strain  the  broth  through  a  wet 
napkin,  colour  it  with  a  few  drops  of  caramel  if  required 
for  brown  stock  or  soup.  If  required  to  be  served  thin, 
taste  it  and  add  a  little  more  salt  or  pepper  if  it-  be 
required.  If  required  as  stock  it  is  best  to  keep  it  mth- 
out  any  additional  seasoning  and  in  its  natural  colour. 

84.  Remouillage  (Seconi  Stock). — This  is  prepared 
by  adding  the  same  quantity  of  water  to  the  meat, 
bones,  and  vegetables  after  being  used  for  general  or 
first  stock.     Any  remains  of  meat  or  bones  which  can- 


SOUPS    (POTAGES).  391 

not  be  used  otherwise  should  find  their  way  to  the 
second  stock.  Let  it  simmer  for  four  or  five  hours, 
keeping  it  well  skimmed.  Salt  or  other  additional 
seasoning  should  be  omitted,  for  this  stock  is  only 
used  for  filling  up  others,  already  seasoned,  or  else  for 
purees,  sauces,  &c.,  where  the  seasoning  in  their  propor- 
tion will  be  found  correctly  described.  When  sufficiently 
simmered,  pass  it  through  a  cloth,  and  use  when  re- 
quired ;  or  boil  it  down  for  meat  glaze. 

Stock  made  from  veal  makes  the  best  meat  glaze  ; 
but  any  kind  of  meat,  poultry,  or  game  stock  can  be 
reduced  for  glaze. 

85.  Pot-aa-feu  (Family  Soup). — The  pot-au-feu  is 
what  would  here  be  termed  the  stock-pot.  It  figures  as 
*' a  standing  dish"  in  every  household  in  France, 
Germany,  and  Switzerland,  as  well  as  in  other  foreign 
countries  where  thrift,  so  to  speak,  is  ingrained  in  the 
national  character,  and  where  cooking  as  an  art  is  not 
monopolised  by  the  rich  alone.  The  pot-au-feu  is  on 
the  simmer  from  the  early  morn  until  dinner-time,  and 
many  loose  unconsidered  trifles  and  scraps  find  their 
way  to  the  stock-pot,  or  pot-au-feu.  The  art  of  culinary 
blending,  however,  produces  a  highly  wholesome  soup, 
which  is  at  the  same  time  nutritive  and  savoury. 

The  following  is  a  recipe  which  will  produce  a  first- 
class  soup  with  meat  and  vegetables,  such,  as  a  rule,  as  is 
served  abroad  : — 4  lbs.  brisket  of  beef,  1  large  onion,  2 
carrots,  4  cloves,  2  leeks,  ^  cabbage,  a  small  bunch  of 
soup  herbs,  12  pepper  corns,  salt,  i  lb.  French  bread,  1 
dessert- spoonful  chopped  parsley,  1^  gallons  cold  water. 
Wash  the  meat  thoroughly  in  cold  water  (shin  of 
beef  may  be  substituted  for  brisket,  but  it  will  not  be 
so  useful  for  serving),  cover  it  with  the  water,  place  it 
on  the  fire  and  let  it  come  gently  to  a  boil.  Be  careful 
to  skim  off  all  the  scum  which  rises  on  top  as  the  stock 
begins  to  boil.  Wash  and  clean  the  vegetables,  stick 
the  cloves  in  the  onion,  tie  up  the  leeks  and  cabbage, 
and  put  all  in  with  the  meat.  Season  with  a  table- 
spoonful   of  salt,  add   the  pepper  corns,   and  let   the 


392  RECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

whole  simmer  gently  for  four  hom-s.  Take  out  the 
meat ;  strain  the  broth  into  a  tureen,  cut  the  carrots, 
turnips,  and  leeks  into  round  pieces,  and  put  with  the 
broth ;  cut  the  bread  in  thin  slices,  and  put  it  in  the 
tureen,  sprinkle  the  chopped  parsley  on  top,  and  serve. 
Before  straining  the  broth  it  should  be  tasted,  and 
more  seasoning  added  according  to  requirement  and 
taste.  The  meat  can  with  advantage  be  served,  but  as 
a  separate  course,  or  be  used  up  in  some  form  for 
another  meal. 

86.  Petites  Marmites  a  la  Parisienne. — This  is  a 
high-class  pot- au- feu  soup,  served  in  small  earthenware 
soup  pots,  which  hold  about  half  a  pint  of  soup.  Each 
guest  is  served  with  a  small  marmite,  which  should  be 
handed  round  on  hot  soup  plates  covered  with  a  folded 
napkin.  It  is  usual  to  serve  at  the  same  time  small 
sippets  of  toasted  and  buttered  bread.  If  marrow-bones 
are  used  for  this  soup,  they  should  be  sawn  into  inch 
pieces.  These  are  likewise  handed  round  with  the 
soup. 

4  lbs.  buttock  steak,  1^  lbs.  beef  bones,  ^  lb. 
knuckle  of  veal,  some  chicken  giblets  if  handy,  2  sticks 
of  leek,  2  cloves,  ^  chicken,  ^  celery  root,  1  small  onion, 
2  small  carrots,  1  turnip,  ^  cabbage,  12  peppercorns, 
salt,  parsley,  (a  marrow  bone). 

Use  an  enamelled  soup- pot  or  a  French  stone 
marmite.  Tie  up  the  meat  with  string,  put  it  in  the 
soup- pot  with  6  to  7  quarts  of  cold  water  or  stock ; 
bring  it  slowly  to  a  boil,  take  off  the  scum.  Wash 
clean  and  trim  the  vegetables.  Roast  the  bones  and 
giblets  and  chicken  with  a  little  butter  in  a  saute -pan 
over  the  fire.  Remove  the  fat  and  put  this  with  the 
soup,  tie  up  the  leeks  and  cabbage,  add  these  together 
with  the  carrots,  turnip,  onion  (stuck  with  2  cloves), 
celery,  and  parsley  to  the  soup  ;  let  it  come  gently  to  a 
boil,  skim,  season  lightly  with  salt,  and  add  a  dozen 
peppercorns.  Let  the  whole  simmer  very  slowly  for 
about  three  hours.  It  is  very  essential  that  it  should 
simmer  slowly  and  continously  so  as  to  ensure  a  clear 


SOUPS    (POTAGES).  393 

broth  with  the  needful  nourishment,  which  can  only  be 
obtained  by  a  slow  process  of  cooking.  Remove  the 
meat  and  chicken,  cut  the  former  in  convenient 
pieces,  allowing  one  slice  for  each  person  ;  cut  the 
chicken  into  small  joints.  Put  the  pieces  in  a  clean 
stew-pan,  strain  the  broth  through  a  fine  sieve  or 
strainer,  and  put  with  the  pieces.  Cut  the  cabbage, 
leek,  carrots,  and  turnip  into  small  pieces  or  slices, 
moisten  them  with  broth,  and  keep  hot.  Let  the  soup 
simmer  for  another  half  an  hour.  Season  to  taste. 
Put  equal  proportions  of  vegetables,  beef,  and  chicken 
in  little  soup-pots  (this  soup  should  be  served  in  very 
small  French  marmites,  sufficiently  large  to  hold 
enough  soup  for  one  person),  pour  in  the  broth,  sprinkle 
over  each  a  little  chopped  parsley  or  chives,  and  serve 
with  toasted  bread  sippets,  [f  a  marrow-bone  is  used 
saw  it  into  small  pieces  about  an  inch  long,  wrap  up  in 
little  pieces  of  linen  or  muslin,  cook  with  the  soup, 
and  serve  as  directed.  If  any  pieces  of  meat  are  left 
over,  make  them  up  into  a  salad,  or  use  up  in  some 
other  form. 

87.  Croute-au-pot. — 2  quarts  of  good  first  stock, 
1  carrot,  1  turnip,  |  cabbage,  2  oz.  butter,  1  dinner  roll, 
parsley  or  chives,  pepper  and  salt,  nutmeg. 

The  stock  should  be  made  from  beef  and  veal  and 
bones,  well  skimmed,  but  need  not  necessarily  be  clarified. 
The  vegetables,  after  being  washed  and  pared,  may  be 
cooked  whole  in  the  stock-pot.  Cut  the  carrot  and 
turnip  into  round  slices,  drain  the  cabbage  and  cut  into 
small  pieces  ;  put  all  the  vegetables  in  a  stewpan  with 
the  butter,  cover  and  cook  slowly  for  about  ten  minutes. 
Season  with  pepper,  salt,  and  a  little  grated  nutmeg. 
Strain  the  stock  on  to  the  vegetables,  and  let  simmer 
for  about  thirty  minutes ;  skim  occasionally.  Cut  the 
roll  into  thin  round  slices,  place  them  on  a  baking  sheets 
bake  them  on  both  sides  a  golden  brown  in  a  moderate 
oven.  Put  them  in  a  soup  tureen,  moisten  with  a  little 
stock,  pour  the  soup  over,  sprinkle  over  a  little  chopped 
parsley  or  chives,  and  serve. 


394  RECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

88.  Consommes  in  General. — Clarification. — 1  gallon 
of  stock,  1  lb.  lean  beef,  1  onion,  1  carrot,  |  leek, 
2  cloves,  \  bay-leaf,  \  head  celery,  a  few  sprigs  parsley, 
1  sprig  thyme  and  marjoram,  12  peppercorns,  2  sprigs 
tarragon  and  chervil,  3  whites  of  Qgg  and  shell,  1  glass 
sherry,  1  of  brandy,  \  lemon  or  1  dessert-spoonful  French 
vinegar,  salt,  sugar. 

The  stock  should  be  cold  for  clarifying.  Eemove  all 
the  fat.  Prepare  the  vegetebles,  wash  and  cut  into 
small  slices,  put  it  together  with  the  herbs,  cloves,  bay- 
leaf,  and  peppercorns  in  a  well-tinned  stewpan.  Pass 
the  meat  through  a  mincing  machine  several  times,  or 
chop  finely.  Whisk  the  whites  of  e^g  a  little  and  put 
with  the  meat,  moisten  with  a  table- spoonful  of  cold 
water  ;  put  this,  with  the  shells  along  with  the  stock, 
into  the  stewpan  containing  the  vegetables.  Stir  over 
the  fire  until  it  commences  to  boil,  then  add  the  wine 
and  brandy,  and  let  simmer  gently  for  about  fifteen 
minutes.  Season  to  taste  with  salt  and  a  pinch  of 
castor  sugar.  Strain  through  a  cloth  ;  it  is  then  ready 
for  use. 

89.  Royal  pour  Consommes  (Savoury  Custard  for 
Clear  Soup). — 2  whole  eggs,  2  yolks  of  egg,  1  gill  white 
stock,  1  table- spoonful  cream,  pepper,  salt,  grated 
nutmeg. 

Break  the  eggs  and  put  into  a  basin,  add  the  stock 
and  cream,  season  to  taste  with  pepper,  salt,  and  a  pinch 
of  grated  nutmeg,  strain  and  fill  into  a  well-buttered 
plain  mould.  Cover  with  a  buttered  paper,  stand  it  in 
a  scewpan  or  saute-pan  three-parts  filled  with  hot  water. 
Cook  gently  on  the  stove  or  in  the  oven  until  set,  take 
out,  let  cool,  turn  on  to  a  plate,  cut  into  diamonds, 
lozenge-shapes,  rounds,  or  small  dice.  Serve  in  clear 
soups  or  purees  as  directed. 

90.  Consomme  de  Volaille  (Clear  Chicken  Broth). — 
1  fowl,  1^  lb.  lean  veal,  2  lbs.  lean  beef,  1  onion,  2  carrots, 
1  turnip,  1  stick  of  celery,  2  leeks,  3  cloves,  1  parsley 
root,  2  gallons  of  water,  salt. 

Truss  the  fowl  the  same  as  for  boiling,  preserve  the 


SOUPS    (POTAGES).  395 

giblets,  clean  and  wash  and  put  them  with  the  fowl, 
beef,  and  veal  in  a  stock-pot,  add  two  table- spoonfuls  of 
salt  and  the  water.  Put  it  on  the  fire,  when  nearly 
boiling  take  off  the  scum.  Skin  the  onion,  stick  in  the 
cloves,  scrape  the  carrots,  peel  the  turnip,  clean  the 
celery,  leeks,  and  parsley,  and  tie  together  in  a  bunch. 
When  the  stock  is  well  skimmed  and  boiling,  put  in  the 
vegetables,  and  let  the  whole  simmer  gently  for  five 
hours.  The  fowl  may  be  taken  out  when  done,  and  be 
used  up  in  some  form  or  other.  If  care  is  taken  in 
preparing  this  soup  it  will  be  quite  clear  and  fit  for 
serving  when  strained  through  a  wet  cloth  ;  but  if  found 
cloudy  clarify  it  as  directed  in  No.  88,  taking  only  half 
the  quantity  of  meat  and  vegetables  given  in  the  recipe. 

91.  Consomme  a  la  Brisse.— 3  eggs  (whole),  G  egg 
yolks,  ^  cooked  cauliflower,  a  cupful  of  cooked  spinach, 
6  small  French  carrots  cooked,  a  little  stock,  3  quarts 
consomme,  a  handful  of  boiled  rice,  pepper  and  salt. 

Prepare  three  distinct  purees  of  the  vegetables,  mix 
with  a  little  stock  over  the  fire.  Add  to  each  one  whole 
and  two  yolks  of  eggs,  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  press 
through  a  hair- sieve  ;  fill  up  three  equal- sized  timbale 
moulds,  well  buttered,  and  cook  in  a  saute-pan  in  boiling 
water.  "When  done  turn  out  on  a  napkin,  cut  into  small 
squares,  put  them  in  a  soup-tureen  with  a  handful  of 
boiled  rice,  pour  over  the  boiling  consomme,  and  serve. 

92.  Consomme  a  la  Careme  (Clear  Soup,  Careme 
style). — Prepare  a  stock  with  1  gallon  of  water,  1  lb.  of 
lean  veal,  1  lb.  of  shin  of  beef,  some  roast  beef  bones,  a 
small  roast  chicken,  and  a  small  handful  of  salt ;  let  it 
boil  up  gently,  skim  well,  and  add  the  following :  one  onion 
stuck  with  a  clove,  one  carrot,  one  turnip,  one  leek,  a 
small  head  of  celery,  and  a  few  peppercorns.  Let  all 
simmer  gently  from  four  to  five  hours,  removing  fat  and 
scam  from  time  to  time,  next  strain  the  broth  carefully 
through  a  napkin.  Cook  separately  in  two  quarts  of 
broth  until  done  one  small  carrot,  one  small  turnip,  one 
leek,  a  few  lettuce  and  a  few  sorrel  leaves,  all  cut  into 
small  round  slices  about  the  size  of  a  shilling-piece ; 


396  RECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

when  done  add  it  to  the  prepared  broth,  together  with 
two  table -spoonfuls  of  cooked  asparagus  points.  Before 
serving,  place  a  handful  of  small  rounds  of  bread  crusts, 
stamped  out  the  same  shape  as  the  vegetable,  into  the 
tureen.  Season  the  soup  to  taste,  add  a  pinch  of  fine 
sugar  and  the  vegetables,  pour  into  the  soup  tureen  and 
serve.  This  soup,  if  properly  done,  should  be  quite 
transparent,  and  of  a  rich  golden  colour,  without  being 
coloured  or  clarified. 

93.  Consomme  de  Volaille  a  la  Chiffonade  (Chicken 
Broth,  Chiffonade  Style). — A  small  fowl,  3  quarts  of  white 
stock,  2  leeks,  3  oz.  butter,  a  bouquet  garni,  parsley,  1 
long  lettuce,  1  handful  of  sorrel,  ^  handful  of  chervil, 
salt  and  pepper. 

Cut  the  fowl  into  small  joints.  Put  two  ounces  of 
butter  in  a  stew-pan,  when  hot  put  in  the  pieces  of 
chicken,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  fry  slightly 
brown  ;  add  the  stock,  boil  up,  and  skim.  Now  add  a 
small  bunch  of  parsley,  the  bouquet  garni,  and  the  leeks 
(previously  cleaned).  Simmer  gently  for  two  hours. 
Wash  the  sorrel,  chervil,  and  lettuce  (use  the  tender 
leaves  of  the  latter  only) ;  cut  all  into  very  fine  strips, 
put  them  together  with  an  ounce  of  butter  in  a  stewpan, 
stir  gently  over  the  fire  for  ten  minutes,  moisten  with 
some  of  the  broth,  skim,  and  cook  for  fifteen  minutes, 
strain  the  remainder  of  the  broth  into  this,  and  season  to 
taste.  Cut  some  neat  pieces  of  chicken  and  put  in  a 
tureen,  pour  in  the  soup,  and  serve. 

94.  Consomme  de  Volaille  Frappe. — Put  into  a 
stock-pot  one  large  fowl,  two  pounds  of  knuckle  of  veal, 
two  pounds  of  shin  of  beef,  two  table- spoonfuls  of  salt, 
and  about  one  and  a  half  gallons  of  water ;  place  on  the 
fire  and  bring  it  slowly  to  the  boil;  skim  well;  add  a 
bouquet,  two  carrots,  one  turnip,  a  few  peppercorns,  one 
onion  stuck  with  two  cloves,  one  stick  of  celery,  two 
leeks,  one  bayleaf,  and  some  parsley  root ;  let  all  boil 
gently  for  about  five  hours.  Take  out  the  fowl  when 
done,  so  that  it  can  be  made  further  use  of.  Remove 
the  fatty  substance  from  the  top  ;  strain  through  a  wet 


SOUPS    (POTAGES).  397 

napkin  or  fine  hair  sieve ;  clarify  in  the  usual  manner. 
When  strained  the  second  time,  allow  it  to  cool,  and 
set  on  the  ice  until  required.  Before  sending  to  the 
table  season  to  taste,  and  add  one  glass  of  sherry  and 
half  a  glass  of  brandy. 

95.  Consomme  Deslignac. — For  2  quarts  of  chicken 
or  game  consomme :  3  eggs,  ^  gill  cream,  |  gill  stock 
(game),  |gill  asparagus  points,  t  giU  cooked  green  peas, 
salt,  pepper,  grated  nutmeg. 

Break  the  eggs  into  a  basin,  beat  a  little  and  add  the 
cream  and  stock,  season  to  taste,  mix  well,  strain,  and 
put  into  a  well-buttered  plain  mould  ;  place  it  in  a  stew- 
pan  half  filled  with  water,  and  cook  over  a  slow  fire  for 
about  half  an  hour ;  take  out,  let  cool,  and  cut  into  neat 
square  pieces.  Put  these,  together  with  the  cooked  aspa- 
ragus points  and  green  peas,  in  a  soup  tureen,  pour  in 
the  clear  chicken  or  game  consomme  and  serve. 

96.  Consomme  Sevigne. — 2  quarts  of  chicken  con- 
somme, ^  cooked  chicken,  ^  oz.  lice,  1  gill  veloute 
sauce,  2  whole  eggs  and  4  yolks,  ^  gill  cream,  pepper, 
salt,  grated  nutmeg,  1  gill  cooked  peas,  a  few  cooked 
French  beans. 

Free  the  chicken  from  bones,  skin,  and  sinews; 
cut  the  meat  into  small  pieces  and  pound  in  a  mortar  ; 
cook  the  rice  in  rich  stock,  and  when  done  strain  off 
and  pound  with  the  chicken ;  add  the  sauce,  mix  well,  and 
put  in  a  basin ;  w^ork  in  the  eggs  and  cream,  season  to 
taste  with  pepper,  salt,  and  nutmeg.  Pass  this  through 
a  fine  sieve.  Fill  the  mixture  into  eight  or  ten  very  small 
timbales  or  dariole  moulds,  previously  well  buttered. 
Stand  them  in  a  saute-pan  half  filled  with  boiling  water. 
Cook  slowly  for  half  an  hour.  Turn  out  on  a  dish  or 
wet  cloth.  Cut  the  shapes  crossways  into  three  or  four 
equal  pieces,  put  them  into  a  hot  soup  tureen,  with 
the  peas  and  beans,  the  latter  cut  into  small  dice, 
pour  over  the  consomme  and  serve.  The  garniture 
for  this  soup  is  sometimes  served  separately  in  a  deep 
round  dish,  and  is  handed  round  as  the  consomme  is 
served. 


398  RECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

97.  Consomme  a  la  Celestine  (Clear  Chicken  Broth, 

Celestine  Style). — Prepare  about  three  quarts  of  con- 
somme, with  one  pound  of  lean  veal,  one  pound  of  lean 
beef,  one  roast  fowl,  two  gallons  of  water,  bones  of 
roast  beef,  soup  vegetables,  and  seasonmg.  Boil  from 
four  to  five  hours  and  strain ;  Avhen  cold  clarify  in  the 
usual  way,  adding  one  glass  of  sherry,  and  seasoning 
to  taste.  Have  ready  a  pancake  batter,  made  with  two 
ounces  of  flour,  half  an  ounce  of  oiled  butter,  half  an 
ounce  of  grated  Parmesan  cheese,  two  eggs,  one  gill  of 
milk,  one  dessert-spoonful  of  chopped  parsley,  tarragon 
leaves  and  chervil,  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Prepare  about 
six  thin  pancakes  with  this,  fold  them  longways,  cut 
them  into  very  thin  strips,  place  them  in  a  soup  tureen  ; 
pour  over  the  soup,  and  serve. 

98.  Consomme  a  la  Grisonne. — Have  ready  some 
consomme.  Prepare  a  pancake  batter  with  the  same 
ingredients  as  No.  97,  leaving  out  the  herbs  and  using 
cream  instead  of  milk.  When  the  consomme  is  boiling 
force  the  preparation  through  a  colander  quickly  into 
same  ;  let  boil  gently  for  a  few  minutes,  when  the  soup 
will  be  ready  for  serving. 

99.  Consomme  a  la  Portugaise. — 2  quarts  of  con- 
somme, 18  French  plums,  2  small  leeks,  ^  oz.  butter, 
a  pinch  of  cayenne. 

Wash  the  plums,  put  them  in  cold  water  with  a 
little  salt ;  bring  to  the  boil,  strain,  and  rinse  in  cold 
water;  return  to  the  stewpan  in  which  they  were 
blanched,  add  sufficient  clear  stock  to  well  cover,  and 
cook  slowly  till  tender.  Wash  and  clean  the  leeks,  cut 
into  shreds  or  Julienne -shaped  strips  about  an  inch 
long,  wash  well  in  cold  water,  drain,  and  cook  a  few 
minutes  with  the  butter,  pour  in  some  clarified  stock  or 
consomme,  and  cook  slowly  till  tender.  Carefully  re- 
move all  the  fat,  pour  over  the  consomme,  and  let 
simmer  for  a  few  minutes.  Put  the  plums  in  a  soup 
tureen,  add  a  pinch  of  cayenne,  pour  in  the  consomme, 
and  serve  with  some  sippets  of  toasted  bread. 

100.  Consomme  a  la  Florentine. — 2  quarts  of  clear 


SOUPS    (POTAGES).  399" 

consomme,    1  turnip,    1   carrot,  about    6    oz.   chicken 
forcemeat,  spinach  greening. 

Wash  and  peel  thinly  the  carrot  and  turnip  (if  very 
small  use  two  of  each,  cut  into  slices  and  stamp  oat 
some  star  shapes,  a  quarter  of  an  inch  in  diameter,  by 
means  of  a  vegetable  cuiter ;  blanch  separately  in 
salted  water,  and  finish  to  cook  until  tender  in  some 
consomme.  Each  lot  must  be  cooked  separately.  Mix 
the  forcemeat  with  a  few  drops  of  spinach  greening,  put 
it  in  a  forcing  bag  with  a  plain  tube  ;  make  some  small 
rings  on  to  a  buttered  saute-pan,  poach  these  in  boilmg 
consomme,  strain  and  put  in  a  soup  tureen  with  the 
other  garnish,  pour  in  two  quarts  of  hot  consomme,  and 
serve. 

101.  Consomme  Colbert. — The  garniture  for  this  soup 
consists  of  poached  eggs  neatly  trimmed  (reckoning  one 
for  each  person),  a  handful  of  cooked  bell  shapes  of 
turnips  and  carrots,  and  a  few  cooked  green  peas. 
Choose  the  eggs  very  small,  poach  them  in  salted  water 
containing  a  dash  of  tarragon  vinegar. 

102.  Consomme  a  la  Royal. — For  2  quarts  of  con- 
somme :  The  breast  of  a  cooked  chicken,  1  whole  egg 
and  3  yolks  of  eggs,  J  gill  of  cream,  1  gill  stock,  pepper 
and  salt. 

Remove  the  skin  from  the  chicken's  breast  and  cut 
into  small  dice,  mix  well  the  eggf^,  cream  and  stock, 
season  to  taste,  and  pass  through  a  fine  sieve ;  fill  into 
a  buttered  mould,  put  it  in  a  stewpan  h  ilf  filled  with 
hot  water.  Cook  in  a  slow  oven  till  firm.  Let  cool  a 
little,  then  turn  out,  cut  into  slices  about  quarter  of  an 
inch  thick,  cut  into  dice  or  stamp  out  with  a  column 
cutter.  Put  these  and  the  chicken  into  a  soup  tureen, 
pour  over  the  consomme  and  serve. 

103.  Consomme  a  I'Andalouse. — For  2  quarts  of 
consomme  :  ^  gill  tomato  sauce,  3  eggs,  1  table- spoonful 
cream,  1  small  cucumber,  chicken  forcemeat  for  quenelles. 

Beat  the  egg  in  a  basin  and  mix  with  it  the  tomato 
sauce  (cold)  and  the  cream,  season  with  pepper  and  salt, 
strain  and  fill  into  a  buttered  timbale  mould ;    stand 


400  RECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

the  mould  in  a  saucepan  half  filled  with  boiling  water 
and  poach  in  a  slow  oven  till  firm.  Let  it  cool  a  little, 
turn  out,  and  cut  into  fanciful  shapes  ;  put  these  in  a 
small  stewpan,  moisten  with  a  little  clear  soup,  and 
keep  hot  until  required.  Peel  the  cucumber,  scoop  out 
with  a  vegetable  scoop  some  little  bell  shapes ;  cook 
tender  in  salted  water,  and  strain.  Have  ready  some 
chicken  forcemeat,  put  in  forcing-bag  ;  form  some  little 
quenelle  shapes  on  to  a  buttered  saute-pan,  pour  in  a 
little  hot  clear  soup,  and  poach.  Put  the  garniture  in 
a  soup  tureen,  pour  in  the  consomme  and  serve. 

104.  Consomme  Julienne. — To  2  quarts  of  consomme  : 
2  small  carrots,  ^turnip,  1  leek,  |  onion,  ^  stick  celery, 
1  oz.  butter,  ^  small  cabbage,  a  pinch  of  sugar,  pepper 
and  salt. 

Pare  and  wash  the  vegetables,  slice  them  thinly  and 
cut  into  very  fine  long  shreds,  put  them  in  a  stewpan 
with  the  butter,  stir  over  the  fire  to  blend  well  and  cook 
a  little,  season  with  a  pinch  of  sugar,  a  little  salt  and 
pepper.  Add  the  clear  soup,  cook  gently  for  thirty 
minutes  or  so  ;  skim  ofl:'  the  fat  and  serve.  A  table-spoon- 
ful of  cooked  green  peas,  and  the  same  of  cooked  French 
beans  cut  in  strips,  may  be  added  to  the  Juhenne  gar- 
niture. 

105.  Consomme  Bouquetiere. — Use  the  same  vege- 
tables as  in  the  above,  omitting  the  cabbage.  Cut  them 
into  slices  and  stamp  out  by  means  of  vegetable  or 
column  cutters  some  fanciful- shaped  dice. 

Proceed  the  same  as  in  the  foregoing,  and  add  1  gill 
Royal,  No.  89  ;  cut  into  small  diamond  shapes  just 
before  Rer\dng. 

106.  Consomme  Paysanne. — For  2  quarts  of  clear 
soup  (No.  88)  :  3  carrots,  3  turnips,  1  onion,  i  small 
cabbage,  3  oz.  butter,  a  handful  sorrel,  a  few  sprigs  of 
chervil,  a  handful  of  slightly- toasted  sippets  of  bread, 
salt,  pepper,  a  pinch  sugar. 

Wash  the  vegetables,  scrape  the  carrots,  peel  the 
turnips  and  onion.  Cut  these  into  thin  slices,  stamp 
out  in  rounds  about  an  inch  in  diameter.      Cut   the 


SOUPS    (POTAGES).  401 

cabbage-leaves  in  a  similar  way.  Put  the  butter  in  a 
stewpan,  add  the  vegetables  with  the  exception  of  sorrel 
and  chervil.  Fry  a  few  minutes,  season  with  pepper, 
salt  and  sugar,  pour  off  the  butter  and  add  a  quart  of 
water,  shred  the  sorrel  and  chervil  and  add  it  after  the 
above  has  simmered  for  about  half  an  hour.  Pour  in 
the  clear  soup,  boil  up,  skim  and  simmer  for  another 
twenty  minutes.  Put  the  toasted  bread  sippets  in  a 
soup  tureen,  pour  over  the  soup  when  ready,  and  serve. 

107.  Consomme  a  la  Jardiniere. — For  2  quarts  of 
consomme  :  1  carrot,  2  small  turnips,  6  small  button 
onions,  f  cucumber,  ^  of  a  lettuce,  J  of  a  stalk  of  celery, 
a  few  sprigs  of  tarragon  and  chervil,  pepper,  salt,  a  pinch 
of  sugar. 

Scrape,  peel,  and  clean  the  vegetables,  scoop  out  the 
carrot,  turnips,  and  celery  into  the  shape  of  peas  and 
small  olives.  Wash  the  lettuce  and  pull  into  very  small 
pieces,  cut  the  tarragon  and  chervil  into  fine  shreds, 
blanch  these  and  the  lettuce-leaves.  Cook  the  onions, 
carrot,  turnips,  celery,  and  cucumber  separately  in 
salted  water,  drain  and  put  all  together  with  lettuce  and 
herbs  in  a  stewpan.  Fill  up  with  the  clear  soup,  add 
the  seasoning,  boil  gently  for  about  ten  minutes,  and 
serve  hot.  P.  S.— Toasted  bread  cut  into  small  sippets 
may  be  served  with  this  soup,  but  should  be  handed 
round  separately. 

108.  Consomme  Brunoise.— For  2  quarts  of  con- 
somme :  f  onion,  2  carrots,  1  turnip,  1  leak,  1  oz.  butter, 
a  pinch  sugar,  pepper  and  salt. 

Peel  the  onion,  pare  and  wash  the  carrots,  turnip, 
and  leek,  cut  all  into  very  small  dice,  the  smaller  the 
better.  Put  the  vegetables  in  a  stewpan,  add  the  butter, 
season  with  very  little  salt,  pepper,  and  sugar.  Cover 
and  keep  over  a  fire  for  a  few  minutes,  shake  the  pan 
well  to  prevent  burning.  See  that  the  vegetables  get 
well  blended,  but  do  not  let  them  take  colour.  Pour 
in  the  clear  soup,  and  boil  gently  for  about  half-an-hour. 
Take  off  the  fat,  and  serve.  A  few  sippets  of  toasted 
bread  may  be  served  in  this  soup,  and,  if  liked,  a  handful 


402  RECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

of  finely-minced  lettuce  and  sorrel  may  be  added  along 
with  the  above-named  vegetables. 

109.  Consomme  Brunoise  au  Riz. — Proceed  the  same 
as  in  the  foregoing  recipe,  adding  a  handful  of  well- 
washed,  blanched,  and  cooked  rice  about  ten  minutes 
before  serving. 

110.  Consomme  Fleuri. — Prepare  a  jardiniere  con- 
somme (No.  107),  put  3  table- spoonfuls  cooked  rice  into 
the  soup  tureen,  pour  the  hot  consomme  over  it,  and 
serve. 

111.  Consomme  a  la  Princesse. — 2  quarts  consomme 
(No.  90),  2  table- spoonfuls  pearl  barley,  1  chicken  breast 
cooked,  2  table-spoonfuls  cooked  asparagus  points. 

Wash  well  the  barley,  strain  and  boil  till  tender  in 
the  consomme,  cut  the  chicken  breast  into  small  dice, 
add  to  the  soup  with  the  asparagus  points.  Boil  up, 
skim,  and  serve. 

112.  Consomme  a  la  Nantaise. — Proceed  the  same 
as  for  the  above,  adding  a  handful  of  cooked  green  peas 
in  place  of  the  asparagus  points. 

113.  Consomme  Printanier  aux  Quenelles. — The 
garniture  for  this  consomme  consists  of  almost  any  kind 
of  spring  vegetables,  such  as  asparagus  tips,.  French 
beans,  buds  of  cauliflower,  peas,  cucumbers,  young 
carrots  and  turnips,  celery,  &c.,  all  cut  or  scooped  out 
in  lozenge  shapes,  balls,  or  olive  sha^pes.  The  vegetables 
are  cooked  separately  in  salted  water,  and  when  done, 
strained  and  mixed  together,  seasoned  with  a  small 
piece  of  butter,  pepper  and  salt,  and  a  pinch  of  sugar. 
The  quenelles  are  made  with  chicken  force-meat  shaped 
either  round  or  oblong.  The  quantity  served  is  about 
a  quarter  of  that  of  the  vegetable  garnishing  ;  they  are 
poached  in  salted  water,  drained,  and  put  in  the  con- 
somme with  the  vegetables. 

For  a  plain  Consomme  Printanier  serve  the  vegetable 
garnishing  with  the  consomme,  omitting  the  quenelles. 

114.  Consomme  Kesselrode. — 2  qrts.  of  consomme, 
1  doz.  chestnuts,  3  yolks  of  eggs,  ^  gill  game  stock,  1 
glass  Madeira  wine,  pepper  and  salt. 


SOUPS    (POTAGES).  403 

Skin  the  chestnuts,  and  boil  in  water  or  milk  until 
tender  ;  rub  through  a  sieve,  mix  with  the  yolk  of 
egg  and  game  stock,  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and 
fill  into  a  number  of  well-buttered  olive- shaped  moulds  ; 
poach  them  in  the  oven  for  ten  minutes,  let  them  cool  a 
little,  then  turn  out  and  place  them  in  a  soup  tureen ; 
add  the  wine  to  the  consomme,  season  to  taste,  and  let 
it  boil  for  a  few  minutes,  and  pour  gently  in  the  tureen. 
It  is  then  ready  for  serving. 

115.  Consomme  a  la  Dubourg. — The  garniture  for 
this  consomme  consists  of  Royal,  No.  102,  plainly-cooked 
rice,  and  cooked  green  peas,  in  equal  proportions. 

116.  Consomme  a  I'lmperiale. — To  8  qrts.  of  con- 
somme ^  lb.  raw  or  cooked  chicken  meat,  2  whites  and 
1  yolk  of  egg,  1  table- spoonful  of  cream,  1  table-spoonful 
of  bechamel  sauce,  2  oz.  fat  bacon  or  shred  beef  suet, 
about  1  gill  white  stock,  pepper  and  salt,  8  small  carrots, 
a  handful  asparagus  points. 

Prepare  the  consomme  in  the  usual  way.  Butter  a 
small  flat  tin  mould  or  pan,  spread  evenly  with  a  thick 
layer  of  forcemeat  made  as  follows :  Chop  finely  the 
chicken  meat,  bacon  or  suet,  pound  together  in  a  mortar, 
add  gradually  the  eggs  and  sauce,  pass  through  a  wire 
sieve,  return  to  the  mortar,  and  add  the  cream  and  as 
much  stock  as  is  required  to  make  a  nice  creamy  force ; 
season  with  pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Place  the  mould 
in  the  oven  until  done  ;  this  will  take  but  a  few  minutes  ; 
cut  out  some  thin  rounds  about  the  size  of  a  shilling 
piece,  put  in  a  soup  tureen  together  with  a  handful  of 
small  rounds  of  cooked  carrots,  and  the  same  quantity 
of  cooked  asparagus  points  ;  pour  over  the  consomme 
and  serve. 

117.  Consomme  Solferino. — 2  qrts.  consomme,  2 
small  potatoes,  2  small  turnips,  2  small  carrots. 

Wash  and  peel  the  vegetables,  scoop  out  with  vege- 
table scoop  a  little  larger  than  a  pea,  blanch  and  boil 
each  kind  separately  in  some  clear  stock,  drain,  and 
keep  hot  in  consomme  until  wanted. 

118.  Consomme  a  la  Xavier. — 2  or  3  qrts.  con- 

26 


404  RECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

somme,  3  oz.  flour,  1  oz.  butter,   1  egg,  1  oz.  grated 
cheese,  ^  gill  milk,  pepper  and  salt. 

Put  the  ruilk  and  butter  in  a  stewpan,  stir  in  the 
flour  when  boiling,  stir  quickly  over  the  fire  until  the 
mixture  becomes  thick  and  smooth.  Add  the  cheese 
(Parmesan  or  Gruyere  is  best),  season  with  pepper  and 
salt,  work  up  well  and  let  cool.  Beat  up  the  egg  and 
work  into  the  mixture.  Fill  a  paper  cornet  or  forcing 
bag  with  a  plain  pipe  three  parts  full  with  this  paste, 
close  up  the  large  end,  press  out  some  large  pea-shapes 
on  to  a  buttered  saute -pan,  pour  on  a  little  boiling  water, 
and  poach  for  five  minutes.  Drain  on  a  sieve,  and  add 
to  the  hot  consomme  about  ten  minutes  before  serving. 

119.  Consomme  aux  Quenelles  frites. — Prepare  a 
similar  paste  as  above,  shape  into  small  marbles,  fry 
these  in  hot  fat,  lard,  or  butter  a  golden  brown,  drain 
on  a  cloth  ;  pour  the  hot  consomme  in  the  tureen,  and 
put  in  the  fried  quenelles  just  before  serving. 

120.  Consomme  Mikado. — 2  qrts.  of  consomme 
flavoured  with  curry,  4  oz.  lean  veal,  2  oz.  lean  mutton, 
the  breast  of  a  small  chicken,  2  oz.  butter,  -^  onion,  a 
bouquet  garni,  2  table-spoonfuls  cooked  rice,  pepper  and 
salt. 

The  curry  to  flavour  the  soup  should  be  added  to  the 
stock  before  it  is  clarified.  Cut  the  meat  into  even-sized 
small  pieces,  mince  the  onion  finely.  Put  the  butter  in 
a  stewpan;  when  melted  add  the  bouquet  of  herbs  and 
minced  onion,  cook  a  little,  then  add  the  pieces  of  meat, 
let  it  brown  a  little,  put  in  the  clear  soup,  let  it  come  to 
a  boil,  skimming  it  thoroughly  before  it  boils.  Simmer 
gently  for  a  good  half  hour,  season  with  pepper  and 
salt,  put  in  the  boiled  rice,  take  out  the  bouquet,  and 
pour  the  soup  in  a  hot  tureen  ready  for  serving. 

121.  Consomme  a  la  Christophe  Colombe. — 2  quarts 
of  consomme,  6  eggs,  1  gill  of  cream,  a  few  drops  of 
liquid  carmine  or  cochineal,  salt  and  pepper,  a  pinch  of 
nutmeg,  a  little  butter. 

Have  ready  three  even-sized  very  small  timbale 
moulds,  and  butter  them  well.   Break  the  eggs,  put  two 


SOUPS    (POTAGES).  405 

whole  into  a  basin,  four  yolks  into  another  basin,  and 
the  whites  of  four  into  a  third  basin,  beat  up  each  lot 
separately,  then  add  a  pinch  of  salt,  pepper,  and  nut- 
meg in  each,  also  the  cream  evenly  divided.  Put  a  few 
drops  of  carmine  into  the  basin  containing  the  two 
whole  eggs,  mix  each  lot  thoroughly,  pass  through  a 
pointed  strainer  separately  into  the  moulds,  place  the 
moulds  in  a  stewpan  with  boiling  water  reaching  to 
half  their  height,  cover  with  a  piece  of  buttered  paper, 
and  poach  in  the  oven  until  firm.  When  done  remove 
the  moulds,  let  them  cool  a  little,  then  turn  out  and  cut 
into  neat  slices  ;  place  these  into  a  soup  tureen,  pour  in 
the  hot  consomme  and  serve. 

122.  Consomme  au  Sagou  (Sago  Soup). — 3  quarts  of 
consomme,  3  oz.  sago. 

Put  the  consomme  in  a  stewpan,  let  it  boil,  stir  in  the 
sago  with  a  wooden  spoon,  let  simmer  for  about  half-an- 
hour,  skim,  season  to  taste,  and  serve. 

Remarks  :  If  the  soup  is  required  to  be  served  as  a 
puree  or  creme,  put  a  gill  of  cream  into  a  basin,  also 
three  yolks  of  eggs,  and  a  pinch  of  grated  nutmeg,  stir 
with  a  whisk  and  pour  in  the  above  quantity  of  soup, 
then  return  to  the  stewpan,  stir  over  the  fire  for  a  few 
minutes  longer,  taking  care  not  to  let  it  boil  again ;  a 
quart  of  tomato  puree  added  in  place  of  a  quart  of  con- 
somme will  also  make  a  good  sago  soup,  proceeding 
exactly  the  same  as  above  stated. 

N.B. — Crushed  tapioca,  semolina,  Indian  meal,  or 
florador  may  be  served  in  the  same  manner. 

123.  Consomme  a  la  Florador. — 2-3  quarts  con- 
somme, ^  gill  milk,  1^  oz.  butter,  2  oz.  medium- 
grained  florador  (or  Indian  maize),  2  yolks  of  eggs,  salt, 
pepper,  nutmeg. 

Melt  the  butter  in  the  milk,  let  it  boil,  and  stir  in 
quickly  the  florador.  Stir  over  the  fire  for  a  few 
minutes,  season  with  pepper,  salt,  and  a  grate  of  nut- 
meg. Let  cool  a  little,  then  work  in  the  yolks  of  eggs. 
Shape  some  tiny  quenelles  by  filling  a  small  teaspoon 
previously  dipped  in  hot  water,  smooth  over  with  the 


406  EECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

blade  of  a  knife,  also  dipped  in  hot  water,  scoop  out 
with  a  second  teaspoon  and  drop  into  salted  boiling 
water ;  proceed  thus  until  the  mixture  is  used  up. 
Poach  the  quenelles  for  six  minutes  until  firm  ;  strain 
on  a  sieve,  trim  a  little  and  serve  with  the  hot  con- 
somme. 

124.  Consomme  aux  Pates  d'ltalie. — Allow  about  ^ 
gill  of  Italian  paste,  or  vermicelli,  to  every  quart  of 
clear  soup.  Drop  into  the  soup  when  fast  boiling,  and 
let  them  cook  for  a  few  minutes. 

Macaroni,  spaghetti,  &c.  may  also  be  used  as 
garnishing  for  consommes ;  but  these  must  be  par- 
boiled first  and  be  broken  into  small  pieces  before  being 
cooked  in  the  soup. 

125.  Consomme  a  la  Napoleon. — 2  quarts  con- 
somme, 6  oz.  ravioli  paste,  1  oz.  foie  gras  trimmings, 
2  oz.  cold  chicken,  veal,  or  rabbit,  1  table-spoonful  be- 
chamel sauce,  1  saltspoonful  chopped  lemon  rind,  ^ 
teaspoonful  chopped  parsley,  pepper  and  salt. 

Roll  out  the  paste  very  thinly,  stamp  out  some 
rounds  with  l|^-inch  cutter.  Chop  up  the  meat  (freed 
from  skin  and  gristle),  lemon  rind  and  foie  gras  very 
finely,  mix  with  the  parsley.  Season  with  pepper  and 
salt,  moisten  with  the  sauce  and  mix  well.  Wet  the 
edges  of  the  rounds  of  paste,  put  rather  more  than 
half  a  teaspoonful  in  the  centre  of  each  ;  close  up  by 
pressing  the  edges  well  together,  giving  it  the  shape  of 
triangular  cocked  hats.  This  done,  drop  them  into 
boiling  salted  water  or  white  stock,  boil  from  ten  to 
fifteen  minutes,  drain  and  put  in  a  soup  tureen ;  pour 
into  this  the  consomme  (previously  heated)  and  serve. 

126.  Ravioli  or  Nouille  Paste. — h  lb.  flour,  2  whole 
or  3  yolks  of  eggs,  ^  teaspoonful  of  salt,  1  table-spoon- 
ful grated  Parmesan  cheese,  a  little  water  or  milk. 

Sift  the  flour  on  to  a  pastry  board,  make  a  well  in 
the  centre,  put  in  the  salt,  a  dessert-spoonful  of  water 
(to  dissolve  the  salt),  and  the  eggs.  Mix  the  whole  well 
together  with  the  cheese,  knead  it  vigorously  with  the 
palm  of  the  hand  until  a  smooth  ball  is  formed,  wrap 


SOUPS    (POTAGES).  407 

up  in  a  floured  cloth,  and  let  it  rest  for  an  hour  or  more. 
Should  the  paste  appear  too  dry  at  the  beginning,  add 
about  a  tablespoonful  of  milk  or  water.  It  must,  how- 
ever, be  remembered  that  this  class  of  paste  must  be 
rather  consistent. 

127.  Consomme  aux  Nouilles.  —  Roll  out  some 
nouille  paste  very  thinly  on  a  floured  board,  fold  it 
lengthways,  and  cut  into  very  small  strips  (the  finer 
the  strips  the  better),  shake  up  and  put  on  a  floured 
baking  sheet  or  dish,  cover  with  a  cloth,  and  allow  to 
rest  for  half-an-hour.  Boil  in  salted  boiling  water, 
strain  and  drain,  and  serve  in  consomme. 

128.  Consomme  Ravioli. — Roll  out  thinly  some 
ravioli  or  nouille  paste  into  a  long  strip,  divide  it  into 
two  parts ;  put  a  row  of  small  heaps  of  ravioli  force- 
meat about  2  inches  apart  on  one  part,  wet  round  each 
heap  with  a  brush.  Lay  the  second  piece  of  paste  over 
the  one  with  the  garnish,  press  down  between  the  rows 
with  the  blunt  side  of  a  |-inch  cutter.  Stamp  out  as 
many  rounds  as  there  are  heaps  with  a  1-inch  cutter, 
place  these  on  a  pastry  board,  and  let  stand  in  a  cool 
place  for  an  hour.  Cook  in  salted  boilmg  water  for 
10  minutes,  drain  on  a  cloth,  and  put  in  a  soup  tureen. 
Sprinkle  over  some  grated  cheese  and  a  few  drops  of 
meat  glaze,  pour  over  some  consomme,  and  serve. 

129.  Ravioli  Farce. — Pound  in  a  mortar  4  oz. 
cooked  chicken  meat,  1  oz.  cooked  ham,  ^  oz.  grated 
Parmesan,  1  yolk  of  egg,  1  table -spoonful  cooked  spinach, 

1  table-spoonful  double  cream  ;  season  with  a  little  salt, 
pepper,  cayenne,  nutmeg,  and  chopped  parsley,  rub 
through  a  fine  sieve,  and  use  as  directed. 

130.  Potage  a  la  Tortue,  Seche  (Turtle  Soup,  Clear, 
made  with  Dried  Turtle). — \  lb.  best  sun-dried  turtle, 
1^  gallon  good  stock,  2  small  carrots,  2  turnips,  2  sticks 
celery,  1  leek,  three  onions,  4  cloves,  20  peppercorns, 

2  blades  of  mace,  a  bouquet  of  herbs  consisting  of 
parsley,  bayleaves,  thyme,  basil,  and  marjoram,  \  lb. 
lean  beef,  i  lb.  veal,  4  whites  of  eggs,  \  lemon,  2  glasses 
of  sherry,  1  glass  of  brandy,  salt,  cayenne. 


408  EECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

Wash  the  turtle  in  cold  water  and  put  to  soak  in 
cold  water  for  three  or  four  days,  changing  the  water 
each  day.  Wash  and  prepare  the  vegetables,  tie  up 
peppercorns,  mace  and  cloves  in  a  piece  of  muslin.  Put 
the  turtle  in  a  large  stewpan  with  the  stock,  add  the 
vegetables,  herbs,  and  mushn  bag  as  soon  as  the  stock 
boils  and  the  scum  is  removed.  Let  it  cook  gently 
from  8  to  10  hours.  Remove  the  fat,  strain  off  the 
stock,  and  put  the  turtle  on  a  dish  to  cool.  Vv^hen 
sufficiently  cool  cut  it  into  convenient  pieces.  Cut  off 
the  skin,  fat,  and  sinews  from  the  beef  and  veal,  chop 
it  very  fine,  or  pass  twice  through  a  mincing  machine. 
Mix  thoroughly  with  the  whites  of  eggs  and  the  shells 
of  three,  add  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  a  sprig  of  tarra- 
gon and  chervil,  stir  in  the  stock,  let  it  come  to  a  boil, 
and  allow  to  simmer  gently  for  a  good  hour.  Strain 
carefully  through  a  cloth,  reboil,  add  the  wine  and 
brandy  and  turtle  meat,  season  with  salt  and  a  pinch 
or  two  of  cayenne  pepper,  and  serve. 

131.  Consomme  de  Gibier  a  la  St.  Hubert. — 
^  cooked  breast  of  pheasant,  grouse,  or  partridge.  Giblets 
of  game,  carcase,  &c.,  3  lbs.  knuckle  of  veal,  ^  lb.  lean 
ham  or  bacon,  1  large  onion,  2  turnips,  2  carrots,  1 
bouquet  garni,  1  small  head  of  celery,  3  cloves,  1  blade 
mace,  12  pepper  corns,  1  oz.  butter,  a  handful  cooked 
green  peas,  salt,  a  pinch  castor  sugar. 

Remove  the  flesh  from  the  bird,  take  off  the  skin 
and  cut  into  small  even- sized  dice.  Put  the  bones  of 
game  and  poultry,  and  the  giblets  (previously  washed) 
in  a  stock-pot  lined  with  the  bacon  or  ham  cut  in  slices, 
add  a  carrot,  a  turnip,  and  the  onion  all  cut  into  slices, 
the  cloves,  peppercorns,  mace,  and  bouquet  garni.  Broil 
over  a  quick  fire  for  about  15  minutes  (if  found  too  dry 
add  1  oz.  butter).  Cut  up  the  veal,  put  it  with  the 
above  and  broil  a  little  longer,  so  as  to  let  it  take  colour  ; 
stir  all  the  time  to  prevent  it  from  burning.  Moisten 
with  6  quarts  of  water,  let  it  come  to  a  boil,  take  off 
the  scum  as  it  rises  to  the  surface,  and  simmer  gently 
for  about  4  hours.     Wash  the  remaining  carrot,  turnip. 


SOUPS    (POTAGES).  409 

and  celery,  scrape  and  peel,  scoop  out  as  many  little 
rounds  as  possible,  and  cook  them  separately  in  salted 
water ;  they  must  be  firm  and  yet  tender.  Put  the 
trimmings  of  the  vegetables  into  the  stock.  Season  the 
stock  with  salt  to  taste,  strain  it  through  a  cloth,  and 
clarify  in  the  usual  manner.  Strain  the  cooked  vege- 
table shapes,  and  add  them  together  with  the  peas  to  the 
clarified  soup  ;  simmer  for  a  few  minutes.  Put  the  dice 
of  game  in  a  soup  tureen,  pour  the  soup  over  it  and 
serve. 

132.  Bouillon  de  Volatile  a  I'Orge  (Cliiekeii  Broth 
with  Barley) — Chop  up  the  carcases,  necks,  and  heads 
of  2  or  3  chickens,  fry  in  a  stewpan  with  2  oz.  of 
butter ;  when  nicely  browned,  pour  off  the  butter,  and 
pour  in  2  quarts  of  good  clear  veal  or  chicken  stock, 
simmer  for  1  hour,  skim  and  strain,  pour  into  another 
stewpan,  and  let  come  to  the  boil.  Wash  one  ounce 
of  pearl  barley,  and  add  to  the  soup  when  boiling. 
Season  to  taste  with  pepper  and  salt,  simmer  for  15 
minutes,  add  a  little  chopped  parsley  or  chives,  and 
serve. 

133.  Mulligatawny,  Clear.— 2  quarts  of  clear  stock, 
the  legs  of  a  raw  fowl,  1  oz.  raw  ham,  ^  small  onion, 
1  teaspoonful  curry-powder  (mild),  3  table-spoonfuls 
boiled  rice,  1  oz.  butter,  1  white  of  egg.  Cut  the  legs 
of  fowl  into  pieces,  fry  in  butter  until  brown,  add  the 
curry-powder  and  fry  a  little,  pour  off  the  fat,  moisten 
with  the  stock,  add  the  onion  and  raw  ham  cut  into 
slices,  boil  up  and  skim,  simmer  for  20  minutes  and 
strain.  When  cold  clarify  with  the  white  of  egg,  add 
the  boiled  rice  and  a  handful  of  chicken  meat  cut  into 
dice,  heat  up  and  serve. 

134.  Puree  aux  Huitres  (Oyster  Soup). — 2  dozen 
large  sauce  oysters,  2  yolks  of  eggs,  2|  quarts  stock 
(white  or  fish),  4  oz.  flour,  4  oz.  butter,  ^  pint  cream  or 
milk,  J  lemon,  pepper,  salt,  nutmeg  and  mace. 

Beard  the  oysters,  preserve  the  liquor,  cut  them  into 
halves  or  quarters,  and  put  in  a  basin  with  a  little 
cream.      Melt  the  butter  in  a  stewpan,  add  the  flour 


410  RECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

and  cook  a  little,  moisten  with  the  stock,  add  the  beards 
of  the  oysters  and  the  liquor,  stir  over  the  fire  until  it 
boils,  skim  and  let  simmer  for  half  an  hour,  season  with 
a  little  pepper,  salt,  a  grate  of  nutmeg,  and  a  salt- 
spoonful  of  ground  mace.  Put  through  a  sieve,  return 
to  the  stewpan,  boil  up,  add  the  cream  or  milk.  Mix 
the  yolks  of  eggs  with  the  oysters,  add  a  few  drops  of 
lemon  juice,  and  put  with  the  soup.  Heat  up,  but  do 
not  let  it  boil  again.     The  soup  is  then  ready  for  table. 

135.  Bisque  de  Homard  a  la  Mariniere. — Remove 
the  meat,  eggs,  and  coral  from  two  small  lobsters  ;  cut 
the  meat  into  dice  and  put  it  aside  until  wanted.  Bruise 
the  lobster  shells  m  a  mortar  ;  heat  up  three  ounces  of 
butter  in  a  stew-pan,  put  in  a  carrot,  an  onion,  two 
sticks  of  celery  (all  sliced),  and  a  small  herb  bouquet  ; 
fry  slightly  in  the  butter  for  a  few  minutes,  then  add 
the  bruised  lobster  shell,  together  with  four  ounces  of 
fine  flour ;  moisten  with  two  quarts  of  fish  stock,  half 
a  pint  of  oyster  liquor,  and  half  a  pmt  of  white  wine. 
Let  it  simmer  for  a  good  half-hour,  stir  and  skim  well, 
strain,  finish  with  two  ounces  of  lobster  butter,  a  little 
cream,  a  dessert-spoonful  of  anchovy  essence,  and  a 
little  lemon  juice  ;  season  with  salt  and  cayenne.  Have 
ready  about  a  dozen  small  white  button  onions  boiled 
in  fish  stock ;  put  these,  together  with  the  dice  of 
lobster  meat,  and  six  large  oysters  cut  in  dice,  into  a 
soup  tureen  ;  pour  on  the  soup  and  serve. 

136.  Bisque  de  Homard  a  la  Parisienne. — 1  lobster, 
J  carrot,  ^  turnip,  4  oz.  butter,  1  gill  white  wine,  2  oz. 
flour,  1  bouquet  garni,  2  qts.  fish  stock,  seasoning 
(I  teaspoonful  lemon  juice,  cayenne,  peppercorns,  and 
salt),  ^  gill  cream. 

Split  the  lobster  down  the  back,  take  out  the  meat, 
break  the  claws,  pound  the  shell  in  a  mortar  until  quite 
fine,  then  add  the  butter,  and  mix  thoroughly  with  the 
pounded  lobster  shell.  Put  all  in  a  stew-pan  and  stir 
over  the  fire  until  hot,  add  the  flour,  and  let  cook  for  ten 
minutes ;  moisten  with  the  wine  and  stock,  add  the 
vegetables,  herbs  and  peppercorns,  stir  until  it  boils,  let 


SOUPS    (POTAGES).  411 

simmer  slowly  for  twenty  minutes.  If  found  too  thick, 
add  a  little  more  stock.  Pass  through  a  tammy  cloth. 
Cut  the  meat  of  the  claws  of  lobster  into  neat  dice,  put 
them  in  a  soup  tureen,  together  with  half  a  gill  of  cream. 
Heat  up  the  bisque,  season  to  taste  with  salt,  a  few 
drops  of  lemon  juice,  and  a  pinch  of  cayenne,  stir  into 
the  tureen  and  serve.  The  remainder  of  lobster  meat 
■will  come  in  for  cutlets,  croquets,  or  bouchees. 

137.  Bisque  de  Petoncles  (Scallop  Soup). — 20  scal- 
lops, 4  oz.  of  butter,  1  small  onion,  2  oz.  flour,  1  bouquet 
garni,  1  gill  of  cream,  1|  quarts  fish  stock,  1  quart  of 
milk,  salt  and  pepper,  2  blades  of  mace,  fried  bread 
croutons,  6  peppercorns. 

Put  the  scallops  in  a  stewpan  with  the  fish  stock, 
bouquet  garni,  half  a  dozen  peppercorns,  and  the  mace. 
Boil  for  20  minutes,  strain  off  the  stock,  and  save  for 
further  use ;  remove  the  parsley  and  herbs  (bouquet 
garni),  mace,  and  peppercorns,  and  chop  the  scallops 
finely.  Peel  and  chop  the  onion,  cover  with  boiling 
water,  and  boil  for  five  minutes  ;  strain,  put  them  in  a 
stewpan  with  the  butter,  and  cook  until  tender.  Add 
the  flour,  stir  well  for  a  few  minutes,  moisten  with  the 
stock,  and  add  the  milk  (boiling),  put  in  the  chopped 
scallops,  stir  over  the  fire  until  it  boils,  and  let  simmer 
for  15  minutes.  Season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  a  pinch 
of  cayenne ;  rub  through  a  fine  sieve  ;  return  to  the 
stewpan,  add  the  cream  and  a  little  more  milk  if  found 
too  thick  ;  give  it  another  boil,  pour  into  a  soup  tureen, 
and  serve  with  fried  bread  croutons. 

138.  Potage  de  Lapin  a  TOseille  (Rabbit  Soup  with 
Sorrel). — 1  large  tender  rabbit,  i  lb.  shin  of  beef,  lib. 
knuckle  of  veal,  J  lb.  lean  bacon,  1  carrot,  1  onion, 
3  cloves,  1  leek,  1  blade  of  mace,  10  peppercorns,  3 
yolks  of  eggs,  1  gill  of  cream,  1  handful  sorrel  leaves, 
^  lemon,  2  oz.  flour,  2  oz.  butter,  salt,  pepper,  chopped 
parsley. 

Cut  up  the  rabbit  into  small  pieces,  bone  the  breast 
and  put  the  two  fillets  in  a  saute-pan  with  a  handful  of 
bacon  cut  small  and  a  little  butter  ;  fry  a  little,  and  cook 


412  RECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

in  the  oven  till  done.  Cut  the  fillets  into  small  dice  and 
keep  for  garnish.  Prepare  the  vegetables,  stick  the 
cloves  into  the  onion,  put  these  together  with  the  pieces 
of  rabbit,  bacon,  beef,  and  veal,  peppercorns,  and  mace 
in  a  large  stewpan  ;  pour  in  six  quarts  of  water,  boil 
up,  skim,  and  cook  slowly  for  about  three  hours.  Take 
off  the  fat  and  strain.  Melt  the  butter,  stir  in  the  flour 
and  cook  a  little ;  moisten  with  three  quarts  of  stock, 
add  the  cooked  pieces  of  bacon  and  about  J  lb.  cooked 
rabbit  meat.  Boil  for  half  an  hour,  stirring  occasion- 
ally. Rub  the  whole  through  a  wire  sieve.  Return  to 
the  stewpan,  season  with  pepper  and  salt  and  a  little 
lemon  juice.  Wash  the  sorrel,  cut  it  into  fine  shreds, 
blanch,  strain,  and  put  with  the  soup.  Mix  the  cream 
with  the  yolks  of  eggs  and  stir  into  the  soup  when  boiling. 
Stir  over  the  fire  long  enough  to  bind  the  yolks,  but 
without  allowing  the  soup  to  boil.  Pour  into  a  soup 
tureen,  sprinkle  over  a  teaspoonful  of  chopped  parsley, 
and  serve. 

139.  Potage  Fausse  Tortue  (Mock  Turtle  Soup, 
Thick). — I  small  calf's  head,  1  lb.  veal,  2  lbs.  lean 
beef,  6  oz.  lean  ham  or  bacon,  4  oz.  flour,  3  quarts 
stock,  1  gill  Madeha  vdne,  1  oz.  butter,  1  small  onion, 
1  carrot,  1  turnip,  1  stalk  celery,  a  few  sprigs  parsley, 
1  bayleaf,  1  sprig  thyme,  1  sprig  marjoram,  10  pepper- 
corns, cayenne  pepper,  salt,  |  lemon. 

Bone  the  calf's  head,  blanch  it,  and  cook  for  three 
or  four  hours  in  stock  or  salted  water.  Press  it 
between  two  boards  or  dishes.  Cut  the  veal,  beef,  and 
ham  or  bacon  into  pieces,  put  them  in  a  large  stewpan 
with  the  vegetables,  cleaned  and  cut  into  slices,  the 
butter  and  herbs,  stir  the  whole  over  a  brisk  fire  until 
light  brown.  Stir  in  the  flour,  and  cook  until  it 
acquires  a  light  brown  colour,  moisten  with  2  quarts  of 
liquor  in  which  the  calf's  head  has  been  boiled  and 
3  quarts  of  other  stock ;  add  the  peppercorns,  a  little 
salt,  and  a  pinch  of  cayenne  ;  let  the  whole  come  to  a 
boil  (stir  till  boiling),  take  off  the  scum,  and  simmer 
slowly  for  three  hours.     Strain  the  soup,  and  let  cool. 


SOUPS    (POTAGES).  4I3' 

Cut  the  calf's  head  mto  neat  1-inch  squares,  trim  off 
the  fat,  and  put  them  in  a  stewpan  with  the  wine, 
cover  with  a  lid,  and  simmer  for  a  few  minutes  ;  then 
add  the  strained  soup,  boil  for  another  thirty  minutes, 
skim  well,  add  more  seasoning  if  needed,  and  a  few 
drops  of  lemon  juice.  Pour  into  a  hot  soup  tureen, 
and  serve  with  thin  slices  of  pared  lemon. 

140.  Potage  a  la  Reine  (Puree  de  Volaille). — 
1  medium-sized  chicken,  3  quarts  stock,  4  oz.  bacon, 

1  carrot,  1  O!nion,  1  bunch  parsley,  thyme  and  bayleaf, 
3  oz.  butter,  1  oz.  almonds,  4  oz.  bread  crumbs,  quenelle 
meat,  seasoning,  ^  pint  of  milk. 

Slice  the  bacon  and  put  in  a  stewpan  together  with 
the  vegetables,  herbs,  &c.  Place  the  chicken,  pre- 
viously trussed  as  for  boiling,  on  top,  season  with  pepper 
and  salt,  pour  in  a  quart  of  stock,  cover  with  a  lid,  and 
let  it  reduce  slowly.  Add  the  remainder  of  stock,  boil 
slowly,  skim,  and  continue  to  boil  until  tender.  Re- 
move the  chicken,  free  it  from  skin  and  bones,  and 
pound  meat  in  a  mortar  with  bread  crumbs,  season  with 
salt  and  nutmeg,  moisten  with  all  the  stock,  and  rub 
through  a  fine  sieve,  return  to  the  stewpan.  Peal  and 
pound  the  almonds,  boil  in  milk,  and  rub  through  a 
napkin.  Add  this  to  the  soup  along  with  the  broth 
just  before  serving.  Serve  the  soup  with  a  garnish  of 
small  chicken  quenelles,  bead  shapes,  made  with  the 
cornet  and  poached,  also  with  a  handful  of  freshly- 
cooked  peas  or  asparagus  points. 

141.  Potage  de  Perdreaux  (Partridge  Soup). — 1  or 

2  roast  partridges,  ^  lb.  calf's  or  chicken  livers,  2 
table-spoonfuls  Espagnol  sauce,  2  quarts  stock,  2  oz. 
butter,  1|  oz.  flour,  2  oz.  bacon,  1  bouquet  garni 
(No.  3),  2  yolks  of  eggs,  seasoning. 

Remove  the  fillets  from  the  partridges,  cut  two  of 
them  into  small  dice.  Take  off  the  legs  from  the  birdsr 
and  put  away  for  further  use.  Chop  up  carcase.  Fry 
the  bacon  with  a  little  butter,  add  the  liver  finely 
sliced.  Season  with  pepper  and  salt,  pound  in  a  mortar, 
add   the   sauce,  season  and  rub  through  a  sieve  (the 


414  BECHEKCHE    COOKERY. 

two  fillets  remaining  may  be  pounded  with  the  above  if 
the  soup  is  desired  specially  rich).  Fry  the  carcase  with 
the  bouquet  garni  in  a  little  bacon  fat  and  the  remaining 
butter.  Sprinkle  over  the  flour,  stir  in  the  stock.  Skim 
well  as  it  begins  to  boil.  Simmer  for  about  half  an 
hour,  stirring  occasionally  ;  strain  through  a  tammy  and 
return  to  a  stewpan,  with  the  puree  previously  pre- 
pared, boil  up,  add  a  glass  of  sherry  or  port,  season 
to  taste.  Cook  for  fifteen  minutes  longer,  adding  the 
minced  breasts  just  before  serving  ;  bind  with  two  yolks 
of  eggs  at  the  last. 

142.  Potage  Faubonne. — 1  pint  soaked  lentils,  2 
quarts  of  stock,  3  oz.  butter,  1  bouquet  garni  (No.  3),  1 
gill  cream,  a  handful  of  fried  bread  croutons,  3  table- 
spoonfuls  cooked  peas,  a  pinch  powdered  mint,  pepper 
and  salt. 

Drain  the  lentils,  put  them  in  a  stewpan  with  the 
butter  and  bouquet  of  herbs,  fry  a  httle,  moisten  with 
the  stock,  and  cook  until  the  lentils  are  tender.  Take 
out  the  bouquet,  rub  through  a  sieve,  return  to  the  stew- 
pan, add  the  cream  and  mint,  season  to  taste,  heat  up 
(but  do  not  let  it  boil),  put  the  peas  and  croutons  in  a 
soup  tureen,  pour  in  the  soup,  and  serve. 

143.  Potage  a  la  Jackson. — Proceed  in  the  same 
manner  as  in  the  above  recipe,  using  1  lb.  of  potatoes, 
washed,  peeled,  and  sliced,  instead  of  the  lentils, 
omitting  the  peas  and  mint.  Add  a  little  grated  nut- 
meg in  seasoning  the  soup. 

144.  Potage  Creme  d'Orge  (Barley  Soup  with 
Cream). — ^  pint  of  pearl  barley,  3  pints  of  white  broth 
(stock),  1  oz.  of  butter,  grated  nutmeg,  a  gill  of  cream, 
a  pinch  of  sugar,  pepper,  salt,  and  fried  bread  croutons. 

Wash  the  barley  in  several  waters,  put  it  in  a  stew- 
pan with  the  broth  or  stock,  stir  over  the  fire  until  it 
boils,  then  let  simmer  slowly  for  three  hours,  season  to 
taste  with  salt,  pepper,  and  a  little  grated  nutmeg. 
Rub  through  a  hair  sieve  or  fine  wire  sieve,  return  to 
the  stewpan,  boil  up  the  cream,  and  add  it  to  the  soup 
together  with  a  pinch  of  sugar   and  the  butter ;  stir 


SOUPS    (POTAGES).  415 

again  until  it  is  thoroughly  hot,  but  do  not  let  it  boil. 
Place  the  croutons  (previously  prepared  and  fried  in 
butter)  in  a  soup  terrine,  pour  in  the  soup,  and  serve. 

145.  Creme  d'Artichauts  (Green  Artichoke  Soup). 
4  green  artichokes,  1  onion,  1  quart  white  stock, 
2  oz.  butter,  1  oz.  creme  de  riz  (or  ground  rice),  ^  pint 
milk,  ^  gill  cream,  2  yolks  of  eggs,  1  oz.  salt,  pepper,  nut- 
meg, parsley. 

Cut  off  the  stems  of  the  artichokes,  trim  off  some  of 
the  green  leaves,  cut  each  in  four,  and  wash  well.  Melt 
the  butter  in  a  stewpan,  add  the  onion,  peeled  and  cut  in 
slices  ;  fry  a  little,  put  in  the  artichokes,  and  stir  over 
the  fire  a  few  minutes,  but  do  not  let  them  take  colour. 
Add  the  stock,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  let  sim- 
mer until  tender.  Eub  all  through  a  hair  sieve.  Mix 
the  creme  de  riz  or  ground  rice  with  a  little  cold  milk, 
boil  up  the  remainder  of  the  milk  and  add  to  the  rice- 
flour.  Put  this  and  the  artichoke  puree  in  a  stewpan, 
let  it  boil  up,  take  off  the  scum,  stir  frequently  to  pre- 
vent it  from  burning ;  beat  the  yolks  of  eggs  a  little,  in- 
corporate with  the  cream,  and  add  to  the  soup  when  the 
latter  has  been  boiled.  Add  a  grate  of  nutmeg,  stir 
long  enough  to  bind  the  eggs,  but  on  no  account  allow 
it  to  boil  again.  Pour  into  a  soup  tureen,  sprinkle  over 
with  a  little  finely  chopped  parsley,  and  serve. 

146.  Puree  de  Choux-fleur  a  la  Creme. — 2  small 
cauliflowers,  6  oz.  crushed  tapioca,  1^  oz.  ground  rice 
(fecule  de  riz),  ^  oz.  castor  sugar,  1  gill  cream,  1  pint 
milk,  1  pint  white  stock,  salt,  pepper,  nutmeg. 

Wash  and  trim  the  cauliflowers,  cook  them  in  salted 
w'ater  until  tender — strain  (keep  the  water),  and  rub 
through  a  fine  sieve.  Bring  the  water  in  which  the 
cauliflowers  have  been  cooked  to  a  boil,  stir  in  the  crushed 
tapioca,  and  simmer  for  twenty  minutes.  Mix  the 
fecule  de  riz  or  ground  rice  with  a  little  cold  milk, 
boil  up  the  remainder  of  milk  with  the  stock,  stir  in 
the  ground  rice  and  cook  for  a  few  minutes,  stirring 
all  the  while.  Mix  all  together,  season  with  salt, 
pepper,  and  grated  nutmeg  to  taste,  bring  it  to  a  boil, 


416  RECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

add  the  cream,  stir  a  little  longer,  but  do  not  let  it 
boil  again.     The  puree  is  now  ready  for  serving. 

147.  Potage  de  Tom  ate  a  la  St.  Louis. — 1^  pints 
tomato  sauce  (No.  202),  3  pints  clear  soup,  2  table- 
spoonfuls  crushed  tapioca  or  1  oz.  sago,  16  little 
quenelles  of  chicken  (No.  231),  pepper  and  salt. 

Boil  the  sauce  and  clear  soup  together,  stir  in  the 
tapioca  or  sago,  simmer  for  ten  minutes,  stirring  con- 
tinually. Season  to  taste,  poach  the  quenelles,  and  put 
with  the  soup  just  before  serving. 

148.  Potage  a  la  MacMahon.  —  1  cooked  calf's 
brain,  2  boiled  onions,  J  cucumber,  1  teaspoonful  curry 
powder,   3  yolks  of  eggs,  f  oz.  butter,  ^  gill  cream, 

2  quarts  of  stock,  pepper,  salt,  nutmeg. 

Peel  the  cucumber,  cut  into  thick  slices,  and  boil  in 
salted  water  till  tender.  Pound  the  brain  and  onions 
in  a  mortar,  add  the  butter  and  curry  powder,  put  in  a 
stewpan  with  the  stock.  Boil  for  twenty  minutes  and 
run  through  a  sieve.  Pteturn  to  the  fire,  mix  the  eggs 
with  the  cream,  stir  mto  the  soup,  heat  up,  season  to 
taste,  and  serve  with  the  cooked  slices  of  cucumber. 

149.  Puree  Crecy  au  Riz. — Wash  and  scrape  ten 
large  French  carrots,  shred  off  all  the  red  part,  parboil 
them  for  five  minutes,  drain,  dry,  and  put  them  in  a 
stewpan  with  three  ounces  of  butter,  one  large  sliced 
onion,  and  the  white  part  of  a  leek ;  stir  over  the  fire 
for  a  few  minutes,  add  two  quarts  of  stock,  season  with 
salt,  pepper,  and  a  little  nutmeg  ;  allow  it  to  simmer 
until  the  carrots  are  done.  Eub  the  whole  through  a 
fine  sieve  or  tammy.  Put  it  on  the  fire  again,  add 
more  stock,  a  dessert-spoonful  of  sugar,  a  pat  of  fresh 
butter,  also  one  ounce  of  fecule  or  cornflour  mixed  first 
with  a  little  milk  or  water.  Stir  well,  allow  it  to 
simmer  for  fifteen  minutes,  add  a  quarter  of  a  pound 
of  rice  boiled  in  beef  broth,  skim  well,  and  serve  with 
bread  sippets  either  separate  or  in  the  soup  tureen. 

150.  Potage  a  TOseille  (Sorrel  Soup). — i  lb.  picked 
sorrel  leaves,  4  oz.  butter,  3  pints  stock,  1|  gills  cream, 

3  yolks   of  eggs,   |  oz.  fecule  de   riz  or  potato  flour, 


SOUPS    (POTAGES).  417 

pepper,  salt,  a  pinch   of  sugar,  a  handful    fried   bread 
croutons. 

Wash  thoroughly  the  sorrel  leaves,  tear  them  into 
little  pieces,  removing  the  stalks  and  part  of  the  ribs,  cut 
it  in  fine  shreds,  and  put  in  a  stewpan  with  the  butter ; 
stir  over  the  fire  until  it  is  well  blended  and  partly  cooked. 
Sprinkle  over  the  fecule  or  potato  flour,  add  the  stock — or, 
if  wanted  for  a  "soupe  maigre,"  use  water  in  place  of 
stock.  Let  it  boil  for  fifteen  minutes,  take  off  the  scum, 
mix  the  cream  and  egg-yolks  thoroughly,  add  it  to  the 
soup,  season  with  pepper,  salt,  and  a  pinch  of  sugar  to 
taste.  Keep  stirring  until  quite  hot,  but  do  not  let  it 
boil  again.  Put  the  bread  croutons  in  a  soup  tureen, 
pour  over  the  soup,  and  serve. 

151.  Puree  a  la  Nivernaise. — 2|  quarts  white  stock, 
8  small  turnips,  6  small  potatoes,  B  leeks,  ^  pint  cream, 
2  oz.  butter,  18  small  cooked  Brussels  sprouts,  |  pint 
cooked  jardiniere,  pepper,  salt,  nutmeg. 

Wash  and  peel  the  potatoes  and  turnips  and  cut  into 
slices ;  wash  the  leeks,  trim  off  the  root  and  the  green 
part  of  the  leaves,  and  slice  thinly.  Put  the  butter  and 
cut  vegetables  in  a  stewpan  and  cook  over  a  slow  fire  from 
fifteen  to  twenty  minutes,  stirring  the  same  occasionally. 
Add  the  stock,  season  with  pepper,  salt,  and  a  pinch  of 
grated  nutmeg ;  boil  gently  until  the  vegetables  are 
tender,  take  off  the  scum,  and  rub  through  a  fine  sieve  ; 
return  to  the  stewpan,  stir  in  the  cream,  keep  hot,  but 
7iot  boiling.  Heat  up  the  Brussels  sprouts  and  jardiniere 
of  vegetables  in  a  little  stock,  strain,  and  put  in  a  soup 
tureen,  poar  over  the  puree,  and  serve. 

152.  Creme  d'Asperges  a  la  Printaniere. — 1  bundle 
asparagus,  2  oz.  butter,  2  oz.  flour,  3  pints  white  stock, 
1  pint  milk,  pepper,  nutmeg,  salt,  sugar,  1  gill  cream,  a 
handful  of  cooked  green  peas  and  beans. 

Clean  the  asparagus,  cut  off  the  tips  and  cook  sepa- 
rately, as  these  will  be  required  for  garnish  ;  cut  the 
stalks  as  far  as  tender  into  small  pieces,  wash  thoroughly 
in  salted  water,  boil  till  partly  cooked  in  salted  water 
and  drain.     Put  the  butter  in  a  stewpan,  when  melted 


418  RECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

add  the  flour,  cook  a  little,  stir  in  the  stock  and  milk, 
let  it  boil  up,  skim,  add  the  asparagus,  season  with  salt, 
pepper,  nutmeg,  and  a  good  pinch  of  sugar.  Cook  till 
tender,  and  rub  through  a  fine  sieve.  Return  to  stew- 
pan,  add  cream,  and  a  little  more  milk  if  needed.  Put 
peas,  French  beans,  and  cooked  asparagus  tips  (about  a 
handful  of  the  latter)  in  a  soup  tureen,  pour  the  puree 
over,  and  serve. 

153.  Creme  de  Concombres  a  la  Reine. — 3  large 
cucumbers,  3  oz.  butter,  2  oz.  flour,  2  pints  chicken 
stock,  1  pint  of  milk,  1  gill  cream,  2  egg-yolks,  seasoning, 
bread  croutons. 

Peel  the  cucumbers,  cut  them  into  quarters,  remove 
the  seeds,  and  slice  coarsely.  Parboil  in  salted  water, 
drain,  and  put  in  stewpan  with  one  ounce  of  butter,  let 
stew  for  about  half  an  hour  ;  season  with  pepper,  salt, 
and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  sugar.  Melt  the  remaining  two 
ounces  of  butter  in  another  stewpan,  stir  in  the  flour, 
cook  it  without  browning ;  add  the  cooked  cucumber, 
dilute  with  the  stock,  boil  up,  skim,  add  the  milk  boiling. 
Cook  slowly  for  twenty  minutes.  Piub  through  a  fine 
sieve.  Stir  cream  and  yolks  of  eggs  well  together,  pour 
in  with  the  i^uree,  return  on  the  fire,  stir  until  the  liaison 
of  egg  and  cream  is  formed,  then  pour  into  a  soup  tureen 
and  serve  with  croutons. 

154.  Potage  au  Potiron  (French  Pumpkin  Soup). — 
3  lbs.  ripe  pumpkin,  3  oz.  butter,  1  bayleaf,  J  lb.  stale 
bread,  1  onion,  1  qt.  milk,  1  qt.  stock,  ^  gill  cream, 
2  yolks  of  eggs,  salt,  pepper,  1  pinch  sugar,  fried  bread 
croutons. 

Cut  the  pumpkin  into  thick  slices,  remove  the  pips, 
put  in  a  stewpan,  cover  with  boiling  water,  add  salt  to 
taste,  and  boil  for  five  minutes.  Strain  off  the  water, 
rub  the  pumpkin  through  a  fine  sieve.  Melt  the  butter 
in  a  stewpan,  add  the  pulp  ;  stir  for  a  few  minutes 
over  the  fire,  then  add  the  stock,  which  should  be  pre- 
viously boiled.  Soak  the  bread  in  the  milk,  peel  the 
onion  and  cut  into  shces.  Boil  up  the  milk,  bread  and 
onion,  and  then  put  with  the  soup,  add  the  bayleaf  and 


SOUPS    (POTAGES).  419 

<;ook  slowly  for  twenty  minutes ;  stir  occasionally,  and 
remove  the  scum  which  rises  on  the  top.  Take  out  the 
bayleaf,  pass  all  through  a  tammy  or  fine  sieve,  return 
to  the  stewpan,  add  a  good  pinch  of  sugar,  season  with 
salt  and  pepper,  and  keep  boiling  for  a  few  minutes 
longer.  Put  the  cream  in  a  soup  tureen,  stir  in  the 
yolks  of  eggs  ;  when  the  soup  is  required,  pour  it  slowly 
into  the  tureen,  stirring  it  the  same  time  with  a  whisk. 
A  plate  of  fried  bread  croutons  should  accompany  this 
soup  ;  or  else  some  very  thin  slices  of  the  crust  of  a 
French  roll  should  be  put  in  soup  before  it  is  sent  to  table. 

155.  Puree  de  Choux  de  Bruxelles  (Brussels  Sprout 
Soup). — IJ  lb.  Brussels  sprouts,  3  pints  of  good  stock, 

1  gill  cream,  a  small  piece  of  soda,  salt,  pepper,  and 
grated  nutmeg. 

Wash  and  trim  the  sprouts,  cook  them  till  tender  in 
salted  water  containing  a  very  small  piece  of  soda  (to 
preserve  the  colour),  drain  well  and  rub  through  a  fine 
sieve.  Put  the  puree  in  a  stewpan  with  the  stock,  boil 
up  and  let  simmer  for  a  few  minutes,  take  off  the  scum, 
season  to  taste,  add  the  cream.  Keep  hot  until  wanted 
for  table ;  but  on  no  account  let  the  soup  boil  again 
after  the  cream  is  once  added. 

156.  Puree  de  Marrons  a  la  Chasseur. — Procure  3 
pints  of  large  chestnuts,  split  them  across  with  a  sharp- 
pointed  knife,  plunge  them  into  a  stewpan  with  boiling 
water  and  allow  to  boil  two  minutes,  drain  well,  dry 
them  on  a  cloth  and  put  into  a  frying-pan  with  a  small 
piece  of  butter,  place  over  a  quick  fire  for  five  minutes, 
cover  over  with  a  cloth  and  remove  shells  whilst  hot. 
Place  the  prepared  chestnuts  in  a  large  stewpan  with 

2  quarts  of  game  stock  or  dark  beef  stock.  Cook 
slowly  until  the  chestnuts  are  tender,  rub  through  a 
fine  sieve,  return  to  the  stewpan,  dilute  with  more 
stock  if  necessary,  season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  a  little 
sugar  and  grated  nutmeg ;  stir  over  the  fire  until  it 
boils,  add  by  degrees  4  oz.  of  butter,  and  bind  with 

3  egg-yolks  and  |  gill  cream.  Serve  with  croutons  of 
game  and  fried  bread  (any  kind  of  game  will  do). 

27 


CHAPTER  IV. 
SAUCES   AND  FOECEMEATS. 

{For  List  of  other  Sauces   see  imges   290-304,   306. 
Beci2yes  for  Sweet  Sauce  will  he  found  on  ixtge  618). 

157.  Sauce  aux Huitres  (Oyster  Sauce). — 12  oysters, 
1  oz.  of  butter,  a  teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice,  1  yolk  of 
Qgg,  I  of  a  pint  of  bechamel  sauce. 

Open  the  oysters,  remove  the  beards  and  put  them 
mth  their  liquor  in  a  small  saucepan,  with  the  butter. 
Cover  with  the  hd,  and  cook  for  four  minutes  (they 
must  not  be  allowed  to  boil).  Put  the  oysters  on  a 
sieve,  cut  them  in  twos  or  quarters,  allow  the  liquid  to 
reduce  to  half  its  original  quantity.  Strain,  return  to 
the  saucepan,  add  the  bechamel  sauce ;  when  hot  bind 
with  the  yolk  of  Qgg,  then  put  in  the  oysters  and  lemon 
juice.  Stir  until  the  former  are  quite  hot,  season  with 
a  pinch  of  salt  and  pepper,  if  necessary,  and  serve  in  a 
hot  sauceboat. 

158.  Sauce  a  la  Chasseur  Royal. — Chop  the  bones 
of  the  soles,  and  put  in  a  stewpan  with  the  trimmins:s 
of  the  oysters,  a  small  sliced  onion,  1  bay  leaf,  1  sprig 
of  parsley  and  thyme,  and  a  sprig  of  marjoram. 

Moisten  with  1  glass  of  port  wine,  let  it  reduce  to 
half  the  original  quantity.  Keep  well  covered  during 
the  process.  Now  add  10  crushed  peppercorns,  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  anchovy  essence,  and  \  pint  of  Espagnole 
sauce,  or  1  gill  ot  brown  stock.  Simmer  for  twenty 
minutes,  remove  the  scum  and  pass  through  a  tammy 
cloth,  or  very  fine  pointed  strainer.  Return  to  the  stew- 
pan,  add  a  little  seasoning  if  needed,  and  finish  with 


SAUCES    AND    FORCEMEATS.  421 

^  gill  of  double  cream.     Keep  veiy  hot,  but  not  boiling, 
and  use  as  directed. 

159.  Sauce  Xavier  (Fish  Sauce). — ^  bunch  water- 
cresses,  a  few  sprigs  of  fennel,  |  pint  milk,  fish  bones, 
essence  of  fish,  for  which  the  sauce  is  prepared,  IJ  oz. 
butter,  I  oz.  of  flour.     Seasoning,  lemon  juice. 

Eemove  the  stalks  from  the  cresses  and  fennel,  put 
the  leaves  in  a  stewpan  with  the  milk  and  fish  bones, 
previously  cut  into  small  pieces  (add  a  tiny  piece  of 
soda),  boil  until  the  leaves  are  done.  Strain  and  let 
cool ;  put  the  cooked  herbs  in  a  mortar,  and  pound  with 
half  the  butter,  then  rub  through  a  sieve.  Cook  the 
flour  in  the  remainder  of  the  butter,  without  taking 
colour,  dilute  with  the  milk  in  which  the  cresses,  &c.  have 
boiled.  Stir  until  it  boils,  add  the  fish  essence,  and 
let  the  whole  simmer  for  ten  minutes.  Strain,  return 
to  the  stewpan,  boil  up,  add  the  green  puree,  and  cook  a 
few  minutes  longer.  Season  with  a  few  drops  of  lemon 
juice,  pepper  and  salt,  add  a  little  cream  or  stock  if 
found  too  thick,  and  keep  in  the  bain-marie  until 
required. 

160.  Sauce  Matelotte.— i  pint  Espagnole  sauce,  1  oz. 
butter,  I  gill  Burgundy  wine,  fish  stock,  liquor  or  fumet 
de  poisson,  ^  onion,  i  carrot,  ^  gill  mushroom  liquor. 

Peel  the  onion  and  carrot  and  mince  very  fine,  fiy 
m  a  little  butter  a  nice  colour,  dram  off  the  butter, 
moisten  with  the  wine  and  mushroom  liquor,  let  this 
reduce  well,  then  add  the  fish  stock  or  liquor  left  over 
in  the  pan  in  which  the  fish  to  be  served  with  this 
sauce  is  cooked,  boil  up  again  and  add  the  Espagnole. 
Let  simmer  for  ten  minutes,  then  strain  through  a  fine 
strainer  or  cloth,  add  a  small  piece  of  butter,  season, 
if  necessary,  with  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice,  salt  and 
pepper,  and  keep  hot. 

P.S. — If  you  have  no  Espagnole  handy,  substitute  it 
with  i  oz.  of  flour,  -^  oz.  of  butter,  well  kneeded,  and 
diluted  with  J  pint  of  stock,  boil  well,  and  use  as 
directed. 

161.  Sauce  Joinville. — 1  oz.  flour,  ^  gill  fish  stock, 


422  KECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

I  pint  white  stock,  3  oz.  butter,  3  yolks  of  egg,  lobster 
coral,  lemon  juice,  salt,  and  cayenne. 

Melt  1  oz.  of  butter  in  a  saucepan,  stir  in  the  flour, 
and  cook  a  little  without  browning.  Add  gradually 
the  fish  and  white  stock,  stir  until  it  boils,  and  let 
simmer  for  twenty  minutes.  Pound  the  lobster  coral 
in  a  mortar  with  an  equal  quantity  of  fresh  butter,  rub 
through  a  sieve  and  stir  into  the  sauce.  Stir  in  the 
egg-yolks  one  at  a  time.  Season  to  taste  with  a  pinch 
of  cayenne,  salt,  and  lemon  juice.  Whisk  well  over  a 
slow  fire,  or  in  a  bain-marie.  Do  not  let  the  sauce 
boil  up  again.  Pass  through  a  fine-pointed  strainer  or 
napkin,  and  serve  as  directed. 

162.  Sauce  Cardinal. — J  pint  Veloute  or  bechamel 
sauce,  1  oz.  butter,  juice  of  ^  lemon,  ^  oz.  lobster  coral 
or  1  oz.  lobster  butter,  1  dessertspoon  meat  glaze,  ^  gill 
mushroom  liquor,  salt,  pepper,  nutmeg. 

Reduce  the  sauce  with  the  mushroom  liquor,  season 
with  salt,  pepper,  and  a  pinch  of  grated  nutmeg,  add 
the  lemon  juice  and  whisk  in  the  butter  and  lobster 
coral  (the  latter  finely  chopped).  Strain  through  a 
tammy  cloth  or  fine  strainer,  return  to  the  stewpan, 
stir  in  the  meat  glaze,  and  keep  hot  in  the  bain-marie 
until  required  for  serving. 

N.B. — If  sauce  maigre  is  desired,  use  bechamel 
sauce  only,  and  substitute  the  meat  glaze  with  ^  gill 
of  cream. 

163.  Sauce  a  la  Victoria  (For  Fish).— f  lb.  fresh 
butter,  4  yolks  of  egg,  1  teaspoonful  tarragon  vinegar, 
1  tablespoonful  lemon  juice,  1  teaspoonful  chili  vinegar, 
^  gill  fish  stock,  pepper,  salt,  and  nutmeg. 

Cut  the  butter  into  small  squares,  put  half  the 
quantity  in  a  stewpan,  place  the  stewpan  in  a  vessel 
or  large  stewpan  containing  boiling  water.  Stir  in  the 
yolks  of  egg  by  means  of  a  whisk,  add  lemon  juice, 
tarragon  and  chili  vinegar,  also  the  stock  reduced  to 
half  its  quantity.  Season  with  pepper,  salt,  and  a 
pinch  of  grated  nutmeg,  finish  by  whisking  in  the 
remainder  of  the  pieces  of  butter.     The  water  in  which 


SAUCES    AND    FORCEMEATS.  423 

the  stewpan  is  placed  should  be  kept  at  boiling  point 
during  the  process,  but  on  no  account  must  the  sauce 
be  allowed  to  boil. 

164.  Sauce  Danoise. — 2  oz.  butter,  1  oz.  flour, 
1  glass  sherry,  J  gill  Chablis  or  Sauterne,  1  pint  fish 
stock,  i  oz.  grated  Parmesan,  2  teaspoonfuls  meat  glaze, 
1  teaspoonful  anchovy  essence,  1  gill  cream,  J  oz.  lobster 
coral,  salt  and  pepper. 

Melt  the  butter  in  a  stewpan,  stir  in  the  flour,  let 
it  cook  a  few  minutes  without  taking  colour.  Moisten 
with  the  wine  and  fish  stock.  Stir  until  it  boils,  then 
add  the  anchovy  essence,  meat  glaze,  and  grated  cheese. 
Season  to  taste  with  pepper  and  salt,  let  simmer  gently 
for  a  few  minutes,  skim  and  pass  through  a  fine  sieve. 
Return  to  a  clean  stewpan.  Let  it  come  to  a  boil. 
Work  in  the  cream  and  lobster  coral  or  lobster  butter. 
Keep  hot,  but  do  not  let  it  boil  again.  Serve  with 
dressed  fish,  salmon,  turbot,  soles,  or  lobster. 

165.  Sauce  au  Vin  Blanc  (White  Wine  Sauce). — 
Some  fish  liquor  (fumet  de  poisson)  (if  the  sauce  be 
used  for  fish),  |  pint  white  stock,  1  gill  white  wine, 
I  oz.  flour,  2  oz.  butter,  2  yolks  of  egg,  ^  lemon,  salt, 
white  pepper. 

If  the  sauce  is  required  for  dressed  fish,  the  fish 
should  be  cooked  in  a  mirepoix  of  sliced  onion,  parsley, 
and  savoury  herbs  as  usual,  with  the  appropriate 
quantity  of  moisture ;  the  liquor  is  strained  and  used 
in  the  sauce.  Melt  1  oz.  butter,  stir  in  the  flour,  cook 
a  little,  dilute  with  stock,  fish  liquor  and  wine,  cook  for 
fifteen  minutes.  Add  by  continuous  stirring  the  re- 
mainder of  the  butter  bit  by  bit,  also  the  yolks  of  egg, 
one  at  a  time,  season  wdth  a  little  salt,  a  pinch  of 
mignonette  or  white  pepper,  and  add  a  few  drops  of 
lemon  juice.  Strain  through  a  tammy  or  napkin,  and 
use  as  sauce  for  dressed  fish,  &c.  Mostly  served  with 
soles,  salmon,  trout,  and  whiting. 

166.  Sauce Ravigote,  chaude(HotRavigote Sauce). — 
4  boned  ancho\ies,  2  French  gherkins,  1  shallot,  2  ozs. 
parsley,  tarragon,  and  chervil,  2  ozs.  butter,  ^  gill  cream, 


424  RECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

5  yolks  of  eggs,  1  tablespoonful  bechamel,  salt,  pepper, 
and  cayenne. 

Peel  the  shallot,  blanch  the  parsley  and  other  herbs, 
put  these  together  with  the  anchovies  and  gherkins  in 
a  mortar  and  pound  well.  Rub  through  a  fine  sieve, 
put  the  pulp  in  a  small  stewpan,  stand  it  in  the  bain- 
marie,  stir  in  with  a  whisk  the  sauce  (bechamel),  let  it 
get  quite  hot,  then  add  by  degrees  the  butter  and 
cream,  also  the  yolks  of  eggs  one  at  a  time.  Stir  until 
the  sauce  begins  to  thicken,  season  with  pepper,  salt, 
and  a  pinch  of  cayenne.  Add  a  few  drops  of  spinach 
greening  if  not  green  enough.  This  sauce  is  excellent 
with  green  artichokes,  asparagus,  salmon,  trout,  &c. 
If  the  sauce  is  prepared  on  the  open  fire  great  care 
must  be  taken  so  as  not  to  let  it  come  to  the  boil. 

167.  Sauce  Bechamel.— 1^  oz.  flour,  2  ozs.  butter, 
1^  pint  of  milk,  1  small  onion  or  shallot,  1  small 
bouquet,  10  peppercorns,  ^  a  bayleaf,  1  small  blade  of 
mace,  seasoning. 

Put  the  milk  on  to  boil  vdth.  the  onion  or  shallot 
(peeled),  the  bouquet,  peppercorns,  mace,  and  bayleaf. 
Melt  the  butter,  stir  in  the  flour,  and  cook  a  little  with- 
out browning  (or  use  white  roux),  stir  in  the  milk,  &c. 
(hot),  whisk  over  the  fire  until  it  boils,  and  let  simmer 
from  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes.  Take  out  the  bouquet, 
rub  through  a  sieve  or  tammy,  return  to  the  stewpan, 
season  lightly  with  a  pinch  of  nutmeg,  half-pinch  of 
cayenne,  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of  salt.  The  sauce  is 
then  ready  for  use. 

168.  Sauce  AUemande. — Dissolve  1  oz.  of  butter  in 
a  stewpan,  add  1  oz.  of  flour,  stir  a  few  minutes  without 
allowing  it  to  brown,  dilute  with  rather  more  than  a 
pint  of  chicken  stock,  stir  until  it  boils.  Season  with 
pepper  and  salt  and  grated  nutmeg.  Let  it  simmer  for 
half  an  hour,  skim,  and  finish  with  a  liaison  of  2  yolks 
of  eggs,  a  tablespoonful  of  cream,  and  h  oz.  of  fresh 
butter.  Stir  over  the  fire  until  the  eggs  begin  to  set, 
but  do  not  let  it  boil ;  add  a  teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice, 
and  pass  through  a  fine  strainer  or  tammy  cloth. 


SAUCES   AND    FORCEMEATS.  425 

169.  Sauce  Veloute.— 1  oz.  flour,  1|  oz.  butter, 
1  pint  of  veal  stock,  ^  gill  mushrooru  liquor,  -J  gill  of 
cream,  1  small  bouquet  garni  (No.  3),  6  peppercorns, 
salt,  nutmeg,  lemon  jaice. 

Cook  the  flour  and  one  ounce  of  butter  together 
without  browning,  stir  in  the  stock  and  mushroom 
liquor,  add  the  bouquet  and  crushed  peppercorns,  boil 
slowly  for  20  minutes,  stir  frequently,  and  skim.  Pass 
through  a  sieve  or  tammy ;  keep  on  the  side  of  the 
stove,  put  a  few  tiny  pieces  of  butter  on  top  to  keep 
from  forming  a  skin.  Just  before  using  it  add  the 
cream.  Stir  well  and  let  it  get  thoroughly  hot  without 
boiling,  season  with  salt  if  necessary,  a  pinch  of  nutmeg, 
and  about  a  teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice.  The  sauce  is 
now  ready  for  use,  and  will  serve  as  a  foundation  for 
any  white  stock  or  as  a  Yeloute  by  itself.  The  cream 
may  be  omitted  if  used  as  the  former. 

170.  Sauce  HoUandaise. — 3  yolks  of  eggs,  2  ozs. 
butter,  1  gill  bechamel  sauce,  ^  gill  stock,  the  juice  of 
half  a  lemon,  salt  and  pepper. 

Boil  up  the  sauce,  remove  to  the  side  of  the  stove 
and  whisk  in  the  yolks  of  eggs,  add  the  stock  (fish, 
chicken,  rabbit,  or  veal),  mix  thoroughly  and  add  the 
butter  gradually,  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  the 
lemon  juice.  Pass  through  a  tammy  and  use.  Before 
adding  the  butter  the  sauce  should  be  sufficiently 
heated  to  bind  the  eggs.  Great  care  must  be  taken  to 
prevent  it  curdling.  Another  way  to  make  this  sauce 
is  to  omit  the  bechamel,  and  to  use  four  yolks  of  eggs  to 
half  a  gill  of  stock,  which  is  finished  with  four  ounces  of 
butter.  The  first  is  the  most  convenient  and  most 
popular  way.  This  sauce  when  finished  is  to,  be  just 
hot,  and  on  no  account  must  it  be  allowed  to  reach  the 
boiling  point. 

171.  Sauce  Blanquette. — This  is  exactly  the  same  as 
Sauce  Allemande,  adding  three  tablespoonfuls  cream 
instead  of  one. 

172.  Sauce  a  la  Poulette. — This  sauce  consists  of 
Allemande  or  Veloute  sauce  mixed  with  finely-chopped 
parsley. 


426  RECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

173.  Sauce  Anchois. — Warm  up  half  a  pint  of 
bechamel  or  HoUandaise  sauce,  and  stir  in  one  tea- 
spoonful  of  anchovy  essence. 

174.  Sauce  Blanche  (White  Sauce). — 1  pint  milk,  1 
small  onion,  1  clove,  1  bay  leaf,  2  oz.  butter,  1^  oz. 
flour,  ^  pint  stock  (white),  10  peppercorns,  salt. 

Cook  flour  and  butter  together  without  browning, 
moisten  with  the  milk  and  stock,  put  in  the  onion,, 
clove,  peppercorns,  and  bay  leaf,  stir  until  it  boils  and 
let  it  simmer  for  fifteen  minutes,  season  with  salt. 
Strain  or  tammy  and  use  as  required.  It  is  best  to  first 
boil  the  onion  with  the  milk. 

175.  Sauce  Supreme. — Make  a  white  roux  with  one 
ounce  of  butter  and  one  ounce  of  flour  ;  dilute  with 
three  parts  of  a  quart  of  chicken  stock ;  add  a  small 
onion,  one  clove,  and  half  a  bayleaf ;  let  it  simmer  for 
fifteen  minutes,  skim  well,  and  work  in  three  pats  of 
fresh  butter,  a  tablespoonful  of  cream,  one  yolk  of  egg, 
and  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon.  Mix  well  and  pass 
through  a  tammy  cloth. 

176.  Sauce  a  la  Mornay. — ^  pint  bechamel  sauce, 
^  gill  of  mushroom  or  Italienne  sauce,  ^  gill  cream,  ^ 
oz.  meat  glaze  or  2  tablespoonfuls  half  glaze  of  chicken 
stock,  1  oz.  grated  Parmesan  cheese,  1  oz.  fresh  butter. 

Put  the  bechamel  sauce  into  a  saucepan,  reduce  it 
well,  then  add  the  Italienne  or  mushroom  sauce.  Let 
it  boil  up,  skim  well  and  add  the  cream.  Now  place 
the  stewpan  in  a  vessel  of  boiling  water,  stir  with  a 
whisk  and  finish  off  with  the  grated  cheese,  butter  and 
meat  glaze  or  half  glaze  ;  these  latter  ingredients  must 
be  added  by  degrees,  only  a  little  at  a  time ;  work  the 
sauce  until  it  becomes  of  a  creamy  appearance.  It 
must  on  no  account  be  allowed  to  boil  again.  When 
this  sauce  is  required  for  dressed  fish  (baked  or  other- 
"v\ise),  some  essence  of  fish  must  be  incorporated. 

177.  Sauce  Mousseline  (viande). — ^  gill  cream,  4 
yolks  of  egg,  3  crushed  long  peppercorns,  1  oz.  butter, 
salt,  nutmeg,  lemon  juice. 

Put  cream,  egg  yolks,  and    pepper  in  a  stewpan,. 


SAUCES   AND    FORCEMEATS.  427 

place  this  in  a  bain-marie  half  filled  with  boiling  water, 
beat  up  with  a  whisk  for  a  little  time,  then  add  one  at  a 
time  little  pieces  of  butter,  stir  all  the  time,  but  do  not 
add  any  more  butter  until  each  piece  has  been  thoroughly 
worked  in  and  is  absorbed  in  the  sauce.  The  sauce 
when  finished  will  have  the  appearance  of  a  frothy 
cream,  and  should  then  be  passed  through  a  tammy 
cloth.  Just  before  serving  finish  off  with  a  few  drops 
of  lemon  juice,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  a  grate  of  nutmeg 
should  be  added  during  the  process  of  whisking.  Served 
with  fillets  of  veal  or  fowl,  asparagus  or  artichokes. 

178.  Sauce  Creme  de  Celerie. — One  small  head  of 
celery,  1  pint  milk,  1  oz.  butter,  1  oz.  flour,  a  little 
cream,  salt,  pepper,  and  nutmeg. 

Eemove  the  best  part  of  the  celery,  wash  well, 
blanch  them,  drain  and  steep  in  cold  water;  cut  the 
celery  into  small  pieces,  put  in  a  stewpan  with  the 
milk,  diluted  with  a  little  cold  stock,  add  some  salt,  boil 
up,  skim,  and  let  simmer  until  tender.  Prepare  in  the 
meantime  a  white  roux,  i.e.  dissolve  the  butter  in  a 
stewpan,  add  the  flour,  and  stir  over  a  slow  fire  until 
the  latter  is  cooked  without  taking  colour ;  then  add 
gradually  the  celery  and  stock,  let  boil  a  little  longer, 
pass  through  a  tammy  cloth,  return  to  the  stewpan, 
season  to  taste  with  salt,  pepper,  and  nutmeg.  Stir 
over  the  fire  until  it  boils,  then  add  a  little  cream  and 
keep  in  the  bain-marie  until  required. 

179.  Sauce  Bearnaise. — ^  gill  tarragon  vinegar,  3 
shalots  finely  chopped,  6  peppercorns  crushed,  4  yolks 
of  egg,  1  tablespoonful  white  sauce,  4  oz.  butter,  1  sprig 
thyme,  meat  glaze. 

Put  the  shalots,  peppercorns,  and  thyme  with  the 
vinegar  in  a  stewpan,  cover  and  boil  until  well  reduced, 
remove  the  thyme,  add  the  sauce  and  a  little  meat  glaze 
when  hot.  Whisk  in  the  yolks  of  egg  (care  must  be 
taken  not  to  let  the  sauce  boil),  remove  the  stewpan  from 
the  fire,  and  work  in  the  butter  in  small  pieces.  Only  a 
little  butter  must  be  added  at  a  time,  otherwise  the 
sauce  will  get  oily.     Strain  through  a  pointed  strainer 


428  RECHERCHE    COOKERY.      ■ 

or  tammy.     A  little  finely  chopped  fresli  tarragon  and 
chervil  may  be  added  after  the  sauce  is  strained. 

180.  Sauce  Soubise. — 2  onions,  1  gill  white  stock, 
i  pint  bechamel  sauce,  white  pepper,  salt,  a  pinch  sugar. 

Peel  the  onions,  parboil  in  salted  water,  strain  off 
the  water,  drain  and  chop  very  finely.  Keturn  to  the 
stewpan,  and  stir  over  the  fire  until  all  moisture  is 
absorbed,  then  add  the  stock  and  cook  till  tender.  Now 
add  the  sauce  and  reduce  to  the  desired  consistency, 
season  with  pepper,  salt,  and  a  pinch  of  castor  sugar. 

181.  Sauce  Maitre  d'Hotel. — h  pint  bechamel  or 
Veloute  sauce,  3  oz.  butter,  J  lemon,  1  teaspoonful 
chopped  parsley,  seasoning. 

Put  the  sauce  into  a  stewpan,  add  a  little  water, 
stir  until  it  boils,  and  reduce  well.  Whisk  in  the  butter 
a  little  at  the  time,  and  rub  through  a  tammy  cloth  or 
fine  hair  sieve.  Return  to  the  stewpan,  add  the  parsley 
and  lemon  juice,  season  with  pepper  and  salt. 

182.  Sauce  Raifort,  chaude  (Horseradish  Sauce, 
hot). — 2  tablespoonsfuls  grated  horseradish,  ^  pint 
bechamel  sauce,  h  teaspoonful  castor  sugar,  pinch 
cayenne  and  salt,  ^  teaspoonful  vinegar. 

Moisten  the  horseradish  with  the  vinegar,  mix  with 
the  sauce,  and  boil  up  whilst  stirring.  Add  the  sugar 
and  cayenne,  allow  it  to  simmer  a  few  minutes,  taking 
great  care  that  the  sauce  does  not  curdle ;  if  found  too 
thick,  add  a  tablespoonful  of  cream  or  milk.  Serve 
with  hot  roast  beef,  &c. 

183.  Sauce  au  Pain  (Bread  Sauce). — Four  oz.  fresh 
breadcrumbs;  1  small  onion,  1  clove,  4  peppercorns, 
1  pint  of  milk,  J  oz.  fresh  butter,  salt,  2  tablespoon- 
ful s  cream. 

Peel  the  onion,  stick  in  it  the  clove ;  put  the  onion 
and  milk  in  a  saucepan,  boil  up,  stir  in  the  breadcrumbs, 
add  the  peppercorns,  and  cook  for  fifteen  minutes.  Eemove 
the  onion  and  peppercorns,  stir  in  the  cream  and  butter, 
season  mth  a  iDinch  of  salt,  and  keep  hot  until  required 
for  serving.  If  liked  the  onion  may  be  cooked  longer, 
passed  through  a  sieve,  and  added  to  the  sauce  ;  the 


SAUCES    AND    FOECEMEATS.  429 

cream  can  be  omitted  ;  if  found  too  thick,  a  little  liot 
water  can  be  added.  Bread  sauce  is  usually  served  with 
roast  fowl,  turkey,  and  game  birds. 
X  184.  Sauce  Espagnole. — Espagnole,  or  Spanish^ 
sauce,  is  one  of  the  grandes  sauces — it  forms  the  principal 
ingredient  in  a  large  number  of  small  sauces  (petites 
sauces),  and  it  is  advisable  that  particular  care  and 
attention  be  paid  to  the  preparation  of  this  important 
sauce.  The  ingredients  given  will  produce  about  half 
a  gallon  of  Espagnole  sauce.  A  smaller  quantity  can 
be  prepared  by  reducing  the  quantities  in  proportion. 
It  is,  however,  prudent  to  have  at  all  times  a  supply  of 
this  sauce  handy.  Three  quarts  rich  stock,  4  oz.  lean 
veal,  1  bouquet  garni,  12  peppercorns,  4  oz.  butter, 
4  oz.  raw  ham  or  lean  bacon,  1  carrot,  1  onion,  2  cloves, 
\  pint  tomato  pulp,  -J  gill  claret,  1  glass  sherry,  4  oz. 
flour,  some  mushrooms. 

Wash  and  peel  the  carrot,  turnip,  and  onion,  cut  up 
small  and  put  in  a  stewpan  with  the  bouquet  of  savoury 
herbs,  peppercorns,  cloves,  and  the  veal  and  ham, 
both  cut  into  pieces.  Add  an  ounce  of  butter,  and  stir 
over  the  fire  until  of  a  nice  light  brown  colour ;  this 
forms  a  true  mirepoix  ;  pour  off  the  fat,  moisten  the 
mirepoix  with  the  stock,  claret,  sherry,  and  tomato 
pulp,  boil  gently  for  about  an  hour.     Skim  occasionally. 

In  the  meantime  prepare  a  roux  by  melting  3  oz. 
of  butter  in  a  stewpan,  stir  in  the  flour  and  cook  very 
slowly  over  a  slow  fire,  stirring  all  the  while  with  a 
wooden  spoon  until  of  a  brown  colour  ;  or  place  the 
stewpan  in  the  oven  and  cook  there  until  brown, 
stirring  from  time  to  time  to  prevent  it  from  burning, 
and  to  blend  the  flour  better.  Allow  the  roux  to  cool 
a  little,  pour  in  gradually  the  prepared  stock,  &c.,  stir 
over  the  fire  until  it  boils,  let  simmer  slowly  for  another  ^ 
hour,  skim  well,  and  pass  through  a  tammy  cloth  or 
fine  sieve.  If  found  too  thick,  add  a  little  more  stock. 
To  prevent  a  thick  crust  forming  on  the  top  of  the 
sauce,  stir  occasionally  until  quite  cool.  Keep  the  sauce 
in  a  stone  vessel  or  pan  until  wanted.     Be  sure  and  boil 


4B0  RECHEnCHE    COOKERY. 

up  the  sauce  each   day  if   not  used  up  at    one  time, 
adding  a  Httle  stock  if  necessary. 

185.  Sauce  Demi-Glace. — Keduce  |  pint  Espagnole 
sauce  with  1^  gill  of  good  gravy  (strained  and  free  from 
fat) ;  allow  to  simmer  about  15  minutes,  and  season 
with  a  pinch  of  pepper. 

186.  Sauce  Madere. — Proceed  the  same  as  for  Demi- 
Glace.  Add  one  glass  of  sherry  or  Madeira  wane  ; 
reduce  a  little  longer  than  the  above,  and  finish  with 
^  oz.  of  meat  glaze. 

187.  Sauce  Bobert. — Half  small  onion,  J  oz.  butter, 
I  teaspoonful  castor  sugar,  f  pint  Espagnole  sauce,  J 
glass  white  wine,  salt-spoonful  dry  mustard. 

Peel  and  mince  the  onion,  fry  it  in  the  butter  a 
nutbrown,  add  the  mustard,  moisten  with  the  wine, 
and  reduce  a  little.  Stir  in  the  Espagnole  and  cook  for 
ten  minutes  ;  season  it  to  taste  and  strain. 

188.  Sauce   Italienne. — ^   pint  Espagnole   sauce, 
4  small  shallots,  8  preserved  mushrooms,  a  sprig  of 
thyme,   1  bayleaf,  1    tablespoonful   sweet   oil,   1   glass 
Chablis  or  Sauterne,  ^  gill  stock. 

Peel  the  shallots,  chop  them  finely,  place  in  the 
corner  of  a  clean  cloth,  hold  tightly  wrapped  up  under 
cold  water,  then  squeeze  out  the  w^ater,  and  put  them 
in  a  small  stewpan  with  the  oil,  stir  over  the  fire  for 
a  few  minutes,  to  blend  but  not  to  colour.  Add  the 
wane,  the  mushrooms  (finely  chopped),  herbs,  and  the 
stock,  let  it  reduce  well,  and  add  the  Espagnole.  Boil 
for  ten  minutes,  take  out  the  herbs,  free  it  from  the 
oil,  and  keep  hot  in  the  bain-marie  until  required. 

189.  Sauce  Salmis. — 1  teaspoonful  red  currant  jelly, 
■|  pint  Espagnole  sauce,  1  gill  of  game  stock,  carcase 
of  cooked  game,  2  shallots,  1  bayleaf,  a  sprig  of  thyme, 
some  mushroom  trimmings,  1  glass  port  wane,  1  table- 
spoonful  sweet  oil. 

Peel  and  chop  finely  the  shallots,  fi*y  in  oil  a 
golden  colour,  add  the  bayleaf,  thyme,  and  mushroom 
trimmings,  chop  up  the  carcase  of  game,  and  fry  a 
little  in  fat  or  butter,  drain  and  put  with  the  above 


SAUCES   AND    FORCEMEATS.  431 

preparation,  add  the  port  wine,  cover  the  stewpan,  and 
cook  them  for  five  minutes.  Moisten  with  the  stock 
and  sauce.  Stir  well  and  let  simmer  for  ten  minutes. 
Skim  well,  strain  or  tammy,  season  to  taste,  add  the 
red  currant  jelly,  heat  up  and  serve. 

190.  Sauce  Piquante. — i  onion  or  4  shallots,  3 
gherkins  (chopped),  1  taplespoonful  chopped  capers, 
1  gill  vinegar,  1  bayleaf,  1  sprig  of  thyme,  |  pint 
Espagnole  sauce. 

Peel  and  chop  the  onion  or  shallots,  put  them  in 
a  stewpan  with  the  vinegar,  bayleaf,  and  thyme,  cover, 
and  reduce  to  half  the  quantity  of  liquor.  Strain  into 
another  stewpan,  add  the  chopped  gherkins  and  capers, 
moisten  with  the  sauce,  boil  a  few  minutes  and  serve. 

191.  Sauce  Chasseur. — i  pint  Madere  sauce,  |  gill 
game  liquor  (fumet),  lemon  juice,  and  1  to  2  livers  of 
game. 

Chop  the  liver  finely  and  cook  with  the  sauce  and 
liquor  of  game  for  about  ten  minutes,  season  to  taste, 
add  a  teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice  and  serve. 

192.  Sauce  Perigueux. — Chop  finely  three  large 
trufiles,  put  them  in  a  small  stewpan  with  a  glass  of 
sherry  wine,  reduce  to  one  half  (covered) ;  add  a  gill 
of  brown  sauce,  and  one  of  tomato  sauce  ;  boil  for  a  few 
minutes,  finish  with  a  teaspoonful  of  anchovy  essence 
and  a  pat  of  fresh  butter. 

193.  Sauce  au  Beurre  Noir  (Black  Butter  Sauce.) — 
Put  1|  oz.  butter  in  an  omelet  pan,  fry  over  a  quick 
fire  until  it  acquires  a  nut-brown  colour,  then  add 
about  ^  teaspoonful  of  vinegar,  and  1  teaspoonful  of 
chopped  parsley. 

194.  Sauce  Genoise. — 1  sliced  onion,  1  shallot, 
I  clove  of  garlic,  1  oz.  butter,  small  bouquet  garni, 
a  teaspoonful  anchovy  essence,  1  glass  red  wine  (Bur- 
gundy), 1  pint  Espagnole  sauce  (made  from  fish  stock  if 
desired),  a  pinch  mignonette  pepper. 

Melt  the  butter  in  a  stewpan,  and  fry  onion,  shallot, 
garlic,  and  bouquet,  add  the  wine,  let  simmer  until  the 
onions  are  done,  then  add  the  sauce,  and  let  simmer 


432  EECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

gently  for  ten  minutes.  Strain  through  a  fine  sieve  or 
tammy,  add  the  pepper  and  anchovy  essence,  and  use 
as  directed. 

195.  Glace  de  Viande  (Meat  Glaze). — Put  8  quarts 
of  good  stock,  white  or  brown,  into  a  stewpan,  boil  up, 
skim  well,  and  reduce  on  a  moderate  fire  from  3^  to 
4  hours.  It  will  make  barely  ^  a  pint  when  done^ 
Put  into  a  jar  whilst  hot,  cover  and  keep  in  a  dry  place, 
and  use  as  required.  If  well  made  it  will  keep  for  a 
long  time. 

196.  Jus  (Brown  Gravy). — Put  2  oz.  of  beef  suet,  or 
1  oz.  of  dripping,  in  a  stewpan,  add  a  sliced  onion  and 
carrot,  fry  sUghtly  brown,  put  in  about  2  pounds  of 
beef  trimmings  or  other  meat,  and  any  bones  of  meat 
or  carcase  of  j)oultry  which  you  may  have  by  you. 
Let  it  bake  in  the  oven  for  fifteen  minutes,  take  out 
and  moisten  with  2  quarts  of  water,  add  ^  head  of  well- 
washed  celery,  3  cloves,  a  blade  of  mace,  6  peppercorns, 
and  a  small  bouquet  of  herbs.  Let  the  whole  simmer 
gently  for  several  hours,  take  off  fat  and  scum,  and 
strain.  Season  with  salt  as  required.  A  few  drops  of 
caramel  may  be  added  if  the  gravy  is  not  sufficiently 
brown. 

197.  Sauce  Bordelaise. — |  of  a  pint  Espagnole  or 
brown  sauce,  1  winegiassful  red  wine,  2  finely  chopped 
shallots,  ^  oz.  meat  glaze,  1  teaspoonful  chopped  herbs 
(parsley,  tarragon,  and  chervil),  a  pinch  of  sugar,  salt  and 
pepper. 

Put  the  wine  and  shallots  in  a  stewpan,  reduce 
to  half,  add  the  sauce,  and  cook  slowly  for  twenty 
minutes.  Take  off  the  scum,  add  the  chopped  herbs 
and  meat  glaze.  Season  with  sugar,  salt,  and  pepper. 
Give  it  one  more  boil,  and  keep  hot  in  the  bain-marie 
until  required. 

N.B.  — In  most  cases  where  Bordelaise  sauce  is  used, 
and  especially  so  with  beef,  some  small  round  pieces  or 
slices  of  beef  marrow  are  blanched  and  put  on  the 
meat  before  it  is  served,  or  else  warmed  up  in  the 
sauce. 


SAUCES    AND    FORCEMEATS.  433 

198.  Sauce  a  la  Chateaubriand  (sometimes  called  a 
la  Crapantine).— 1  gill  Cbablis  or  Sauterne  wine,  2  cloves, 
1  sprig  of  thyme,  2  shallots,  12  peppercorns,  about 
1|  gill  meat  glaze,  the  juice  of  t  lemon,  2  oz.  butter, 
^  teaspoonful  chopped  tarragon. 

Peel  and  chop  the  shallots,  put  them  with  the  wine, 
cloves,  thyme,  and  crushed  peppercorns  in  a  small  stew- 
pan,  cover  and  reduce  to  half  its  quantity,  strain  into 
another  stewpan,  add  the  lemon  juice.  Work  in  the 
meat  glaze  and  butter  bit  by  bit  (keep  the  stewpan  in 
the  bain-marie),  add  the  tarragon  last  of  all.  Whisk 
well,  and  serve  very  hot  with  fillet,  steak,  Chateau- 
briand, &c. 

199.  Sauce  a  la  Liable  (Devilled  Sauce). — Fry  2 
finely-minced  shallots  in  ^  an  ounce  of  butter  to  a  golden 
colour,  add  f  pint  of  demi-glace  sauce,  1  table-spoonful 
of  mixed  mustard,  a  dessert-spoonful  of  Worcestershire 
sauce,  and  a  good  pinch  of  cayenne.  Stir  until  it  boils, 
skim  and  pass  through  a  fine  strainer,  add  a  teaspoonful 
of  finely-chopped  parsley,  and  serve. 

200.  Sauce  Gibier  (Game  Sauce). — The  trimmings, 
carcases,  &c.,  of  any  kind  of  game  may  be  used  for  this 
sauce  ;  those  of  grouse  or  woodcock  are  preferable. 
Chop  small  the  trimmings  of  game,  put  them  in  a 
stewpan  with  a  small  onion,  a  piece  of  carrot,  and  a 
piece  of  turnip  all  cut  in  slices,  a  few  sprigs  of  parsley, 
a  sprig  of  thyme,  one  of  marjoram,  a  bay  leaf,  a  small 
piece  of  mace,  and  1  clove,  moisten  with  |  gill  sherry, 
cover  and  put  on  the  fire  to  cook  for  five  minutes.  Now 
add  a  good  pint  of  Espagnole  or  brown  sauce,  let  it  come 
quickly  to  a  boil,  and  keep  simmering  for  fifteen  minutes 
longer.  Pass  through  a  tammy  cloth,  return  to  a  clean 
stewpan,  season  with  a  little  salt  if  necessary,  and  keep 
hot  in  the  bain-marie  until  required  for  serving. 

201.  Sauce  Colbert  aux  Fines  Herbes.  — 1|  gill 
Espagnole  sauce,  1  glass  of  Madeira  wine,  1  table-spoonful 
of  meat  glaze,  1|  oz.  of  fresh  butter,  1  teaspoonful  lemon 
juice,  chopped  parsley,  tarragon,  and  chervil — one  des- 
sert-spoonful in  all. 


434  RECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

Put  tlie  sauce  into  a  small  stewpan,  stir  over  the  fire 
until  hot,  add  the  Madeira  wine,  and  let  boil  a  few 
minutes.  Remove  to  the  side  of  the  stove,  and  add 
gradually  in  little  bits  the  butter  and  the  meat  glaze. 
Beat  up  with  a  small  whisk,  but  do  not  let  it  boil  again. 
Last  of  all  add  the  lemon  juice  and  the  chopped  herbs  ; 
serve  as  directed.  If  desired  richer,  |  oz.  more  butter 
may  be  added  in  the  manner  described. 

202.  Sauce  Tomate  (Tomato  Sauce). — Put  into  a 
stewpan  1  oz.  of  slices  of  bacon,  1  oz.  of  butter,  and  a 
finely-chopped  onion,  fry  a  little,  and  add  about  1  lb.  of 
ripe  tomatoes  freed  from  stems  and  cut  into  slices,  stir 
over  the  fire  a  little  longer,  then  add  1  oz.  of  flour 
previously  mixed  with  a  little  cold  stock  or  gravy.  Stir 
in  gradually  three  parts  of  a  quart  of  stock,  add  a  few 
peppercorns,  a  few  sprigs  of  savoury  herbs  and  parsley, 
allow  all  to  simmer  for  half-an-hour.  Remove  the 
herbs,  rub  through  a  sieve,  return  to  the  stewpan,  season 
with  salt,  a  pinch  of  castor  sugar  and  pepper,  finish  with 
a  pat  of  fresh  butter,  and  serve  as  required.  P.S. — A 
table- spoonful  of  double  cream  might  be  used  instead  of 
butter,  but  the  sauce  should  not  be  allowed  to  boil  again 
after  the  butter  or  cream  as  a  finish  has  bjeen  added. 

203.  Sauce  Creme  de  Tomate. — Cut  up  the  tomato, 
put  in  a  stewpan,  add  a  bayleaf,  salt,  and  peppercorns, 
reduce  to  half,  add  a  piece  of  butter,  and  when  drawn 
pass  through  a  tammy,  return  to  a  small  stewpan,  and 
work  in  the  remainder  of  2  oz.  of  butter.  Do  not  put 
near  too  hot  a  place,  or  else  it  will  go  oily. 

204.  Sauce  Pompadour. — 2  oz.  butter,  ^  pint  Veloute 
or  AUemande  sauce,  1  shallot,  6  preserved  mushrooms, 
2  yolks  of  eggs,  ^  gill  cream,  1  teaspoonful  chopped 
parsley,  pepper,  salt,  and  a  grate  of  nutmeg. 

Peel  and  chop  the  shallot,  and  mince  finely  the 
mushrooms.  Blend  the  shallot  in  an  ounce  of  butter, 
but  do  not  let  it  take  colour  ;  put  in  the  mushrooms 
and  stir  over  the  fire  until  all  moisture  is  absorbed, 
then  add  the  sauce,  stir  until  it  boils,  skim  well,  and  let 
it  cook  a  few  minutes.  Beat  up  the  yolks  of  eggs  with  the 


SAUCES    AND    FORCEMEATS.  435 

cream  and  parsley,  stir  into  the  sauce,  and  season  with 
pepper,  salt,  and  a  little  nutmeg ;  finish  with  the 
remaining  ounce  of  butter,  but  do  not  let  it  boil  again. 
Keep  in  the  bain-marie  until  required  for  serving. 

205.  Sauce  Marseillaise. — 1  lb.  ripe  tomatoes,. 
1  carrot,  1  small  onion,  1  oz.  raw  ham,  2  oz.  butter, 
1^  oz.  flour,  1  bayleaf,  1  gill  stock,  1  oz.  bacon  (fat), 
salt,  pepper. 

Remove  the  stems  of  the  tomatoes,  cut  them  in 
halves,  crossways,  take  out  the  pips  and  mash  up,  and 
put  them  in  a  stewpan  with  the  stock  and  vegetables ; 
the  latter  should  be  washed,  peeled,  and  cut  into  slices. 
Cook  slowly  until  tender.  Cut  up  the  bacon  and  ham^ 
put  them  in  a  stew-pan  with  an  oz.  butter,  stir  over  the 
fire  until  the  butter  turns  clear  ;  add  the  flour,  and  cook 
long  enough  to  blend  the  flour  (do  not  let  it  get  brown)  ; 
now  add  the  tomato  puree  and  bayleaf.  Remove  the  fat 
from  the  liquor  left  from  the  chicken,  strain  into  the 
above,  and  cook  together  slowly  for  twenty  minutes. 
Season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  a  pinch  of  aromatic 
seasoning.  Put  through  a  tammy  cloth  or  hair  sieve 
heat  up  again,  finish  with  the  remaining  ounce  of  butter 
and  serve  as  directed. 

206.  Sauce  Ruisseau  (Watercress  Sauce). — J  bunch 
watercress,  J  tablespoonfal  capers,  1^  oz.  of  butter^ 
1  gill  chicken-stock,  h  pint  Veloute  sauce  (or  Allemande), 
1  hard-boiled  egg,  seasoning. 

Wash,  pick,  and  blanch  the  cresses,  put  them  in  the 
mortar  with  the  egg,  capers,  and  butter,  pound  until  the 
grist  is  fine,  and  rub  through  a  sieve.  Put  the  sauce  and 
stock  in  a  stewpan,  let  it  boil  up  together,  skim  and  reduce 
a  little.  Whisk  in,  by  degrees,  the  green  puree.  Season 
to  taste  with  pepper  and  salt,  strain  through  a  tammy 
cloth,  return  to  the  stewpan,  and  keep  hot  in  a  bain- 
marie  until  required  for  serving.  N.B. — On  no  account 
allow  the  sauce  to  boil  again  after  it  has  been  strained, 
or  else  it  will  become  oily. 

207.  Sauce  au  Jus  d'Orange. — Peel  an  orange  thinly, 
and  cut  the  peel  into  strips  (julienne  fashion),  put  them 

28 


36  '    RECHERCHE    COOKERY. 


in  a  stewpan  with  sufficient  water  to  cover,  boil  for  five 
minutes,  and  drain  on  a  sieve.  Put  in  a  stewpan  balf- 
a-pint  of  Espagnole  sauce,  half-pint  rich  stock  or  roast 
meat  gravy,  and  half  the  juice  of  the  orange.  A.II0W 
all  to  reduce  to  half  its  quantity,  strain,  and  add  the 
orange  peel,  a  teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice,  a  teaspoonful 
of  red  currant  jelly,  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  boil  up 
again,  and  serve  with  roast  wild  duck,  wild  boar,  or 
other  game. 

208.  Sauce  Big-arade. — Proceed  the  same  as  before, 
but  substitute  a  Seville  orange  for  the  sweet  one.  Use 
only  half  the  peel,  and  boil  for  ten  minutes  at  least. 
Omit  red  currant  jelly,  and  add  a  glass  of  port  wine 
instead. 

209.  Sauce  Indienne.— 1^  oz.  butter,  1  oz.  flour, 
^  small  onion,  1  tablespoonful  curry  powder,  |  pint  good 
fish  stock,  salt,  1  tomato,  a  few  savoury  herbs,  i  glass 
Marsala  wine. 

Melt  the  butter,  add  the  onion,  finely  chopped  ;  when 
of  a  nice  light  brown  stir  in  the  flour  and  curry  powder, 
blend  well,  and  cook  for  five  minutes  ;  pour  in  gradually 
the  fish  stock,  add  the  tomato,  cut  into  slices,  and  the 
herbs  ;  bring  it  to  the  boil  whilst  stirring,  then  add  the 
wine,  season  to  taste,  cook  for  twenty  minutes,  strain, 
and  serve. 

210.  Champagne  Sauce. — Put  two  cloves,  half-a-dozen 
peppercorns,  a  bayleaf,  and  three-quarters  of  a  pint  of 
Espagnole  sauce  into  a  stewpan  on  the  fire  ;  let  it  reduce 
a  little,  add  a  gla.ss  of  champagne,  and  the  essence  re- 
maining from  the  braised  ham.  Reduce  the  whole  for 
ten  minutes,  or  longer  if  found  too  thin.  Strain  through 
a  pointed  strainer  and  serve  with  braised  ham. 

211.  Sauce  Poivrade  (Pepper  Sauce). — f  pint  of 
Espagnole  sauce,  ^  oz.  of  bucter,  ^  small  carrot,  i  small 
onion,  18  peppercorns,  1  bayleaf,  1  sprig  thyme,  2  cloves, 
^  oz.  of  raw  ham  or  bacon. 

Mince  the  onion  and  carrot,  cut  the,  ham  or  bacon  into 
small  pieces ;  fry  the  above  in  the  butter  for  three  minutes, 
add  the  peppercorns  (crushed),  herbs,  &c.  ;  skim  off  the 


SAUCES    AND    FORCEMEATS.  437 

fat,  moisten  with  the  sauce,  and  boil  for  ten  minutes  or 
longer ;  skim,  strain,  and  serve  as  required. 

212.  Sauce  Mayonnaise. — 2  yolks  of  eggs,  1  teaspoon- 
ful  of  French  mustard,  ^  teaspoonful  salt,  a  pinch  of 
pepper,  1  tablespoonf ul  tarragon  vinegar,  about  |  pint  best 
salad  oil,  1  table- spoonful  cream. 

Put  the  yolks  into  a  basin,  add  the  mustard  (raw,  not 
mixed),  salt  and  pepper,  stir  quickly  with  a  wooden  spoon, 
adding  drop  by  drop  at  first,  and  gradually  more,  the 
salad  oil,  and  at  intervals  a  few  drops  of  vinegar ;  the 
vinegar  is  added  when  the  sauce  appears  too  thick.  By 
stirring  well  the  mixture  should  become  the  consistency 
of  very  thick  cream.  At  last  add  the  raw  cream,  stirring- 
all  the  while.  A  little  cold  water  may  be  added  if  found 
too  thick.  In  hot  weather  the  basin  in  which  the 
mayonnaise  is  made  should  be  placed  in  a  vessel  of 
crushed  ice. 

213.  Sauce  Tartare. — Put  two  yolks  of  eggs  in  a 
basin,  place  it  in  a  shallow  pan  containing  some  crushed 
ice,  add  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  a  good  pinch  of  white  pepper, 
a  pinch  of  cayenne,  and  a  teasj)oonful  of  mustard  ;  stir 
well  together,  and  add  gradually  a  pint  of  salad  oil,  and 
about  a  quarter  of  a  gill  of  tarragon  vinegar  ;  when  the 
sauce  is  smooth  and  creamy  stir  in  a  good  tablespoonful 
of  cold  bechamel  or  Veloute  sauce,  two  teaspoonfuls  of 
chopped  gherkins,  one  of  chopped  capers,  one  of  chopped 
parsley,  and  about  half  a  teaspoonful  of  finely  chopped 
tarragon  and  chervil.  Do  not  mix  the  gherkins,  capers, 
&c.,  until  the  sauce  is  finished,  as  it  is  likely  to  cause 
the  sauce  to  turn  if  put  in  too  soon.  A  few  drops  of 
lemon  juice  may  be  added  if  the  sauce  is  found  too  thick. 

214.  Sauce  Suedoise,  froide  (a  cold  Sauce  suitable 
for  Roast,  Game,  &c.). — 1  gill  mayonnaise,  ^  gill  cream, 
1  teaspoonful  of  French  mustard,  2  tablespoonfuls  finely 
grated  horseradish. 

Whip  the  cream,  stir  in  gradually  the  mayonnaise, 
grated  horseradish,  and  mustard  ;  add  a  pinch  of  castor 
sugar,  and  a  little  salt  if  needed. 

215.  Sauce  Mousseline  verte  (a  cold  Sauce  suitable 


438  EECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

for  Fish,  &c.). — 1  gill  mayonnaise,  J  gill  cold  bechamel 
sauce,  1  tablespoonful  of  picked  parsley  leaves,  a  few 
sprigs  each  of  tarragon,  chervil,  and  burnet,  2  table- 
spoonfuls  of  cooked  spinach,  2  hard-boiled  yolks  of  eggs, 
2  anchovy  fillets,  ^  gill  of  cream. 

^Yash  and  pick  the  green  herbs,  steep  them  in  boil- 
ing water  for  a  few  minutes,  drain  well,  pound  in  a 
mortar  with  the  spinach,  and  rub  through  a  fine  sieve. 
Pound  the  yolks  of  eggs  and  anchovy  fillets,  mix  -^ith  the 
green  puree,  add  the  cream,  and  rub  the  whole  through 
a  sieve.  Dilute  with  mayonnaise  and  bechamel  sauce, 
add  a  little  seasoning  and  a  teaspoonful  of  mixed  mus- 
tard. 

216.  Sauce  Valentine. — This  sauce  is  prepared  in  the 
same  way  as  "  Sauce  Suedoise,"  adding  a  teaspoonful  of 
tarragon  vinegar,  and  substituting  the  French  mustard 
with  half  that  quantity  of  English  mustard. 

217.  Sauce  aux  Concombres,  froide  (Cold  Cucumber 
Sauce). — J  cucumber,  h  gill  bechamel  sauce,  -^  gill 
cream,  1  gill  mayonnaise  sauce,  salt,  pepper,  spinach 
greening. 

Peel  thinly  the  cucumber  and  cut  into  small  pieces, 
boil  in  salted  water  till  tender,  and  rub  through  a  hair 
sieve.  Return  the  pulp  to  the  stewpan,  add  the 
bechamel  sauce  ;  let  it  reduce  to  about  half  the  ori- 
ginal quantity,  and  let  it  cool.  Whip  the  cream  until 
stiff  ;  work  in  the  mayonnaise  sauce,  and  mix  slowly  with 
the  reduced  cold  sauce,  add  a  little  salt  and  pepper  if 
needed,  also  a  few  drops  of  spinach  greening  ;  the  sauce 
is  then  ready  for  use. 

218.  Sauce  Remoulade.  —  Blanch  a  few  leaves  of 
tarragon,  parsley,  burnet,  and  chives  ;  drain  the  herbs 
and  chop  finely.  Put  in  a  basin  the  yolk  of  an  egg  with 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  stir  well  with  a  wooden  spoon  ; 
work  in  gradually  half  a  pint  of  salad  oil,  and  at  inter- 
vals a  few  drops  of  tarragon  vinegar.  About  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  vinegar  is  required  to  half  a  pint  of  oil. 
When  the  sauce  is  finished  add  a  teaspoonful  of  made 
mustard,  a  pinch  of  castor  sugar,  and  the  chopped  herbs. 


SAUCES   AND    FORCEMEATS.  439 

219.  Sauce  Epicurienne  (suitable  for  Asparagus, 
Artichokes,  or  Boiled  Fish). — 1  cucumber,  1  gill  mayon- 
naise, -^  gill  cream,  table -spoonful  tarragon  vinegar, 
^  gill  aspic  jelly,  1  tea-spoonful  anchovy  essence, 
i  dessert-spoonful  chopped  gherkins,  1  dessert-spoonful 
chutney,  pepper,  salt,  sugar. 

Peel  the  cucumber,  cut  it  into  small  pieces,  cook  till 
tender  in  salted  water,  strain  and  rub  through  a  fine 
hair  sieve.  When  cold,  stir  this  puree  gradually  into 
the  mayonnaise  sauce,  add  the  cream,  aspic  anchovy 
essence,  the  vinegar,  and  chutney  (the  latter  should 
previously  be  rubbed  through  a  sieve)  ;  season  with 
pepper  and  salt  and  a  small  pinch  of  castor  sugar  ;  add 
the  chopped  gherkins  and  a  few  drops  of  spinach  green- 
ing to  give  it  a  greenish  tint. 

220.  Creme  de  Raifort,  froide  (Horseradish  Cream, 
cold). — 1^  oz.  grated  horseradish,  1  gill  thick  cream, 
1  tablespoonful  white  wine  vinegar,  1  teaspoonful 
castor  sugar,  ^  teaspoonful  powdered  mustard,  |  salt- 
spoonful  salt,  a  pinch  of  cayenne. 

Put  the  horseradish  in  a  basin,  add  the  sugar,  mus- 
tard, salt,  and  cayenne  ;  moisten  with  the  vinegar.  Stir 
in  gradually  the  cream,  and  whisk  gently  for  a  few 
minutes.     Serve  in  a  sauce-boat  with  cold  roast  beef,  &c. 

221.  Sauce  Chaud-froid  Blonde  (Fawn-coloured 
Chaud-froid  Sauce). — |  pint  aspic  jelly,  1  gill  AUemande 
sauce,  f  gill  cream,  1  tablespoonful  Espagnole  sauce, 
J  oz.  French  leaf  gelatine,  a  glass  of  Madeira  wine, 
pepper  and  salt. 

Melt  the  aspic  jelly  in  a  stewpan ;  add  the  wine, 
Espagnole  and  AUemande  sauce  ;  let  it  come  to  a  boil, 
and  skim.  Soak  the  gelatine  in  cold  water,  squeeze  it 
well,  and  put  with  the  sauce  ;  when  dissolved,  stir  in 
the  cream,  pass  through  a  tammy  cloth  or  fine  strainer, 
and  use  as  directed. 

222.  Sauce  Chaud-froid  Blanche  (White  Chaud-froid 
Sauce). — I  pint  bechamel  or  supreme  sauce,  1  gill 
aspic,  5  or  6  leaves  French  gelatine,  1  gill  cream,  1  tea- 
spoonful Chili  vinegar  or  lemon  juice. 


440  rtECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

Dissolve  the  gelatine  along  with  the  aspic  jelly, 
warm  up  the  sauce,  and  mix  the  two  together.  Stir 
over  the  fire  until  it  boils,  put  in  vinegar  or  lemon  juice, 
and  cook  for  a  few  minutes.  Strain  or  tammy  ;  add  the 
cream  when  cooling,  and  use  as  required. 

223.  Sauce  Chaud-froid  Brune  (Brown  Chaud-froid 
Sauce). — I  pint  Espagnole  or  salmi  sauce,  1  glass  Ma- 
deira or  sherry,  i  pint  aspic,  4  leaves  French  gelatine, 
cream. 

Boil  up  the  sauce.  Dissolve  the  gelatine  with  the 
aspic,  mix  both  together  ;  add  the  wine  ;  let  simmer  for 
a  few  minutes,  and  pass  through  a  tammy  cloth  ;  add  a 
little  cream,  and  flavour  to  taste. 

224.  Green  or  Pink  Chaud-froid  Sauce.— Proceed 
the  same  as  for  white  chaud-froid  sauce,  adding  a  few 
drops  of  spinach  greening  or  liquid  carmine  at  the  finish. 

225.  Gelee  a  1' Aspic  (Aspic  Jelly,  for  General  Use). — 
2  quarts  veal  stock,  1  small  bouquet  garni,  2  oz.  French 
leaf  gelatine,  1|  gill  sherry  or  Sauterne,  1  gill  French 
wine  vinegar,  2  whites  of  eggs,  1  celery  leaf. 

The  stock  should  be  cold ;  remove  any  fat  that  may 
be  on  the  surface.  Put  the  stock,  gelatine,  and  bouquet 
of  herbs  in  a  stewpan.  Cut  the  celery  into  small 
pieces,  beat  up  the  whites  of  eggs  a  little,  and  mix  with 
the  stock.  Stir  over  a  brisk  fire  continually  until  nearly 
boiling,  then  add  the  wine  and  vinegar,  and  let  boil  up. 
Move  the  stewpan  on  the  side  of  the  stove  for  about 
ten  minutes.  Strain  through  a  jelly-bag  or  napkin, 
repeat  straining  until  perfectly  clear.  Keep  the  aspic  in 
a  basin,  and  use  as  required 

226.  Aspic  a  la  Tomate.  (Tomato  Aspic). — 1  pint 
aspic  jelly,  4  small  ripe  tomatoes,  or  J  pint  tomato  pulp, 
^  oz.  French  leaf  gelatine,  1  dessert-spoonful  sherry. 

Blanch  and  peel  the  tomatoes,  rub  through  a  fine 
hair  sieve,  dissolve  the  gelatine,  and  add  to  the  pulp. 
Put  the  jelly,  tomato  pulp,  and  sherry  in  a  stewpan, 
boil  up,  skim  well,  and  simmer  for  a  few  minutes  ;  pass 
all  through  a  fine  hair  sieve,  and  use  as  directed. 

227.  Creme  a  1' Aspic  (Aspic  or  Savoury  Cream). — 


SAUCES    AND    FOECEMEATS.  441 

Warm  up  ^  gill  of  bechamel  or  AUemande  sauce,  add 
a  teaspoonful  of  tarragon  vinegar,  stir  this  into  ^  pint 
of  liquid  aspic  jelly,  mix  with  a  gill  of  double  cream, 
season  with  a  pinch  of  cayenne  and  mignonette  pepper. 
Pass  through  a  sieve  or  tammy  cloth,  and  use  as 
directed. 

228.  Farce  de  Poisson  (Merlan)  (Whiting  Force- 
meat).— Eemove  the  meat  from  a  large  skmned  whiting  ; 
put  into  a  mortar  and  pound  with  four  ounces  of  panade 
and  two  ounces  of  butter ;  rub  all  through  a  sieve, 
return  to  the  mortar,  and  work  in  gradually  one  table - 
spoonful  of  stiff  bechamel  sauce  (cold),  1  whole  egg, 
and  2  yolks.  Season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  grated 
nutmeg. 

229.  Veal  Godivean  (Quenelles). — ^  lb.  lean  veal 
(cushion),  |  lb.  veal  suet  finely  chopped,  2  eggF, 
2  oz.  panade  or  pepper,  3  oz.  soaked  bread,  salt,  grated 
nutmeg. 

Free  the  meat  from  skin,  fat,  and  sinews,  and  cut 
into  very  small  pieces  ;  pound  the  veal  and  suet 
together  in  a  mortar  until  perfectly  smooth ;  then  add 
the  eggs  one  at  a  time,  also  th3  panade  or  soaked  bread, 
the  latter  to  be  mixed  in  only  in  small  quantities. 
Moisten  with  about  a  gill  of  i'^.ed  water,  season  with 
pepper,  salt,  and  nutmeg.  Tesb  the  consistency  in  a 
little  boiled  water  ;  if  found  too  soft,  add  a  little  more 
bread  or  panade,  and  a  yolk  of  egg  ;  if  too  stiff,  add  a 
little  more  water,  stock,  or  cream.  Shape  into  que- 
nelles the  required  shape,  poach  in  salted  water  or  stock, 
and  use  as  required. 

230.  Farce  de  Veau  (Veal  Forcemeat).— Shce  J  lb. 
of  lean  veal,  free  it  from  skin  and  sinews,  together  with 
J  lb.  of  finely  shred  beef  suet,  and  2  oz.  of  fat  bacon 
cut  in  strips  ;  pound  all  well  in  a  mortar,  pass  through 
a  sieve,  put  back  to  the  mortar,  season  with  salt  and 
aromatic  spice,  chopped  parsley,  mushrooms,  and  onions 
(a  teaspoonful  of  each) ;  mix  with  a  small  handful  of  fresh 
breadcrumbs,  work  all  well  for  a  few  minutes  longer, 
bind  with  two  well-beaten  eggs.     This,  like  all  other 


442  EECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

forcemeat,  should  be  first  tried  in  boiling  water,  and,  if 
firm,  light,  and  well  flavoured,  it  is  ready  for  use. 

231.  Farce  de  Volaille  (Chicken  Forcemeat). — f  lb. 
raw  chicken  meat,  1  oz.  flour,  1  oz.  butter,  |  gill  chicken 
stock,  1  egg,  salt,  pepper,  nutmeg. 

Boil  the  stock  and  butter,  stir  in  the  flour  ;  cook  for 
6  minutes,  stirring  all  the  time ;  the  mixture  should 
then  appear  quite  smooth.  This  is  a  panade.  Spread 
it  on  a  plate  to  cool.  Free  the  chicken  from  skin 
and  sinews,  cut  up  small,  and  pound  in  a  mortar  until 
smooth.  Add  the  panade,  a  little  at  a  time,  the  egg,  and 
a  little  cream  if  liked.  Mix  thoroughly,  season  with 
pepper,  salt,  and  a  pinch  of  grated  nutmeg.  Put  the 
whole  through  a  fine  sieve.  Test  the  consistency  of  the 
forcemeat  before  shaping  into  quenelles,  &c.  Use  as 
directed. 

232.  Farce  de  Gribier  (Game  Forcemeat). — 1  lb.  raw 
game,  free  from  skin,  bones,  and  gristle,  ^  lb.  lean 
fresh  pork,  ^  pint  well-reduced  game  sauce,  1  yolk  of 
egg,  1  chopped  shallot,  1  teaspoonful  chopped  parsley, 
1  bayleaf  finely  chopped,  pepper,  salt,  grated  nutmeg. 

Cut  the  game  and  pork  into  small  pieces  and  pound 
in  a  mortar  till  smooth;  add  the  yolk  of  egg,  chopped 
shallot,  parsley,  and  bayleaf  and  sauce,  work  it  till  per- 
fectly fine,  season  with  pepper,  salt,  and  a  little  grated 
nutmeg,  rub  through  a  fine  wire  sieve,  and  use  as 
directed. 

233.  Farce  de  Faisan  (Pheasant  Forcemeat). — Put 
in  a  mortar  |  lb.  of  pheasant  freed  from  bone  and  skin, 
pound  well,  and  add  2  tablespoonfuls  of  reduced 
Espagnole  sauce,  a  wineglassful  of  sherry,  2  oz.  of  foie 
gras,  1  oz.  of  panada,  1  egg,  and  2  oz.  of  sausage-meat. 
Work  well,  season  with  pepper  and  salt  and  a  little 
aromatic  spice,  and  pass  all  through  a  fine  sieve.  If 
you  find  the  farce  too  stiff,  work  in  a  Jittle  cream  or 
more  sauce.  Some  chopped  truffles  may  be  introduced 
after  the  farce  is  passed  through  the  sieve. 

234.  Farce  de  Foie  de  Veau  (Liver  Farce). —  ^  lb. 
calf's  liver,  ^  lb.  bacon,  1  small  carrot,  1  small  turnip, 


SAUCES   AND    FORCEMEATS.  443 

1  small  bunch  savoury  herbs,  1  small  onion,  salt,  pepper, 
and  nutmeg, 

Cut  up  the  bacon  and  fry  it.  Slice  the  liver  and 
fry  with  the  bacon,  chop  the  vegetables  fine  and  put 
with  the  liver,  add  herbs,  and  season  with  pepper,  salt, 
and  grated  nutmeg.  Stir  over  the  fire  until  sufficiently 
cooked.  Remove  the  herbs  and  pound  the  rest  in  a 
mortar.  Then  run  through  a  fine  sieve.  The  farce  is 
ready  then  for  use. 

235.  Puree  a  la  Duxelle. — Chop  6  or  more  mush- 
rooms, 3  shallots,  a  few  sprigs  of  parsley,  and  1  truffle. 
Melt  2  oz.  of  butter  in  a  stewpan,  add  2  oz.  of  finely 
chopped  cooked  ham  and  the  above-named  ingredients, 
stir  over  the  fire  for  a  few  minutes,  moisten  with  a 
glass  of  white  wine  and  a  Httle  stock,  season  with 
pepper,  salt,  nutmeg,  and  a  small  suspicion  of  garlic, 
also  a  little  powdered  bayleaf ;  when  well  reduced  stir 
in  four  tablespoonfuls  of  Allemande  sauce,  boil  again, 
and  serve  as  required. 

236.  Fumet  de  Gibier  (Fumet  of  Game.) — Carcase 
of  game,  1  small  carrot,  ^  onion,  1  bayleaf,  1  sprig  of 
thyme,  2  oz.  raw  ham,  1  oz.  lard  or  butter,  1  glass 
sherry,  1  quart  stock. 

Chop  up  the  carcase,  wash,  peel,  and  slice  the 
carrot,  peel  and  slice  the  onion,  put  the  butter  or  lard 
in  a  stewpan ;  when  hot,  add  the  carcase  and  ham  cut 
into  small  pieces,  fry  a  few  minutes,  then  add  the 
vegetables  and  herbs,  fry  again,  moisten  with  the  wine, 
cover  and  steam  a  few  minutes,  add  the  stock,  cook 
for  twenty  minutes.     Skim,  strain,  and  use  as  directed. 

237.  Essence  de  Volaille  (Chicken  Essence). — 
Reduce  1  quart  of  chicken  consomme.  No.  90,  over  a 
slow  fire  to  about  half  a  pint.  Skim,  strain  into  a  white 
pot,  and  use  as  required. 

237a.  Vinaigrette. — Mix  4  tablespoonfuls  salad  oil, 

2  of  tarragon  vinegar,  ^  teaspoonful  of  each,  parsley, 
shallots,  and  1  of  gherkins,  all  finely  chopped. 
Season  with  pepper  and  salt. 


CHAPTER  V. 

GARNITUEES   AND  DECORATIONS 
FOR  COOKED  FOODS. 

Garnitures  in  most  cases  are  a  matter  of  taste  and 
knack ;  after  a  certain  amount  of  experience  the  gar- 
nishings  suitable  for  certain  dishes  may  be  prepared 
with  httle  trouble,  and  without  going  in  for  elaborate 
recipes,  and  can  be  made  to  look  inviting  and  to  taste 
delicious. 

In  order  to  give  a  dish  of  cutlets,  a  ham,  a  leg  of 
lamb  or  mutton  a  neater  appearance,  a  frill  is  put  over 
the  bones,  which  are  sometimes  made  unsightly  by  the 
cooking.  Silver  skewers  or  atelets  (hatelets)  are 
principally  used  for  cold  dishes,  such  as  capons,  fowls, 
beef,  tongue  and  hams,  galantines,  and  other  fish  or 
meat  dishes. 

These  consist  as  a  rule  of  truffles,  cocks'  combs, 
and  mushrooms,  which  are  fastened  on  to  skewers 
together  with  vegetables,  cut  into  fancy  shapes,  and 
white  of  egg  (hard  boiled),  and  set  in  various  tints  of 
aspic  jelly. 

The  various  garnitures  described  are  those  which 
are  recognised  as  correct  and  mostly  known  under  the 
names  given.  These  refer  principally  to  Removes  or 
Releves,  but  may  easily  be  adopted  for  Entrees,  &c. 
unless  otherwise  stated. 

238.  Garnishing^  a  I'Allemande.  —  Godivean  or 
German  Quenelles.  Mashed  potatoes,  grated  horse- 
radish, and  a  sharp  white  sauce. 

Served  with  boiled  or  braised  meats. 

239.  Garnishing  a  rAncienne.  —  Boiled  beans 
(kidney),  hard  -  boiled  eggs,  and  braised  cabbage- 
lettuces. 


GARNITURES  AND  DECORATIONS  FOR  COOKED  FOODS.  445 

Served  with  a  rich  creani  sauce  flavoured  with 
spring  onions. 

240.  Garnishing^  a  I'Alsacienne.— Braised  sourcrout, 
mashed  peas,  shces  of  braised  ham  and  sausages. 

Served  with  Removes  only. 

241.  Garnishing  a  I'Alliance.  —  Braised  spring 
carrots,  artichoke  bottoms,  and  fried  button  onions, 
with  semi-glace  sauce,  No.  185. 

242.  Garnishing  a  I'Andalouse. — Groups  of  braised 
spring  cabbages,  lettuces,  and  fried  sausages,  cut  into 
small  pieces. 

Sauce,  Demi-glace,  for  Removes,  &c. 

243.  Garnishing  a  I'Athenienne.  —  Larded  and 
braised  meat,  garnished  with  short  pieces  of  fried 
and  stuffed  Aubergines  (Egg-plants). 

Sauce,  Madere,  No.  186. 

244.  Garnishing  a  la  Beaufort  (For  Fish). — Groups 
of  colloped  lobster,  bearded  oysters,  mushroom  heads, 
lobster  coral,  and  suitable  sauce  to  go  with  the  fish. 

245.  Garnishing  a  la  Bohemienne. — Small  marble- 
shaped  fried  potatoes,  stoned  olives,  mushroom  heads, 
and  button  onions,  dressed  in  groups  round  braised  or 
roast  meats. 

Sauce,  Poivrade,  No.  211. 

246.  Garnishing  a  la  Belle-Vue  (For  Cold  Dishes). — 
Masked  with  white  chaud-froid  sauce,  decorated  with 
slices  of  truffles  and  red  ox-tongue,  tarragon  leaves  and 
chopped  aspic  jelly. 

247.  Garnishing  a  la  Bigarade.— Finely  shredded 
orange  peel,  cooked  in  salmi  sauce  (essence  of  duck), 
flavoured  with  a  glass  of  good  port  wine. 

Generally  served  with  ducks. 

248.  Garnishing  a  la  Bretonne. — Stewed  haricot 
beans  (whole  or  puree),  brown  onion  sauce,  flavoured 
with  mustard,  horseradish,  and  chopped  parsley.  Usually 
served  with  mutton. 

249.  Garnishing  a  la  Bignon. — Small  round  or 
kidney  potatoes,  scooped  out,  raw,  stuffed  with  sausage- 
meat,  and  baked  in  butter. 


446  EECHEKCHE    COOKEKY. 

250.  GarnisMng  a  laBourguignotte  (for  Fish  only). — 
Small  quenelles  made  with  whiting  forcemeat  poached 
in  fish  stock  sauce.     Matelote,  No.  160. 

251.  Garnishing  a  la  Bayard. — Cooked  ox-tongue 
and  artichoke  bottoms  cut  into  dice,  mushrooms  and 
truffles  cut  mto  slices  ;  the  whole  boiled  for  a  few 
minutes  in  well-reduced  Madere  sauce.  Small  rounds 
of  fried  bread  covered  with  a  thin  layer  of  foie  gras 
puree  complete  this  garnish. 

252.  Garnishing  a  la  Bayonnaise. — Cooked  aspara- 
gus points,  button  onions  (boiled),  gherkins  and  an- 
chovy fillets,  dressed  in  groups  round  braised  or  broiled 
meats. 

253.  Garnishing  a  la  Bontoux. — Very  small  maca- 
roni timbiles,  tartlets,  flavoured  with  fumet  of  game, 
tomato  sauce,  grated  cheese,  and  shce  of  cooked  meat, 
dressed  round  braised  meats,  and  served  with  demi- 
glace  sauce.  Sometimes  served  with  poultry  as  a 
remove. 

254.  Garnishing  a  la  Brisse. — Border  of  mashed 
turnips,  sauce  demi-glace,  and  tomato  reduced.  Served 
with  fillets  of  beef  or  duck. 

255.  Garnishing  a  la  Bordelaise  for  tournedos,  small 
steaks  and  fillets.  Parboiled  slices  of  beef,  marrow 
grilled  and  placed  alternately  with  the  cooked  meat 
when  it  is  dished  up.  For  sauce,  reduce  finely  chopped 
shallot  in  claret,  add  sufficient  quantity  of  Espagnole  or 
demi  glace.  Season  with  cayenne,  &c.,  and  pour  over 
the  meat. 

256.  Garnishing  a  la  Bourgeoise. — Young  carrots 
and  turnips  cut  into  neat  shapes,  parboiled  and  braised, 
also  button-onions,  braised  and  glazed,  dressed  in 
groups.     Sauce,  demi-glace  (No.  185). 

257.  Garnishing  a  la  Cambaceres.— Small,  even- 
sized  truffles,  mushroom  heads,  olives  (stoned),  and 
brown  sauce.     Usually  served  with  fish  removes. 

258.  Garnishing  a  la  Castelaine  (for  Fish  Entrees). 
Lobster  meat,  tails  and  claws,  cut  into  slices,  slices  of 
truffles,  bearded  oysters,  and  white  fish  sauce. 


GARNITURES  AND  DECORATIONS  FOR  COOKED  FOODS.  447 

259.  Garnishing  a  la  Cavour. — Steamed  or  poached 
nouilles,  thin  round  shces  of  carrots,  cooked  in  rich 
white  stock.  Sauce,  Veloute,  No.  169.  enriched  with 
yolks  of  eggs,  and  extra  quantity  of  fresh  butter. 

260.  Garnishing  a  la  Chambord  (for  Fish). — Small 
quenelles  made  with  forcemeat  of  jfish,  mushroom 
heads,  bearded  oysters,  sliced  truffles,  cooked  in  brown 
fish  sauce  or  Genoise,  No.  194. 

261.  Garnishing  a  la  Chartre. — Olive- shaped  young 
carrots,  parboiled  and  finished  in  demi-glace  sauce, 
reduced  in  glaze  and  glazed.  Sauce,  Demi-glace, 
No.  185. 

262.  Garnishing  a  la  Chasseur.— Fillets  of  game  cut 
into  dice,  also  preserved  mushrooms,  cut  likewise,  cooked 
in  salmi  sauce,  No.  189,  or  Chasseur,  No.  191,  well 
blended  with  port  wine.  In  some  cases  the  garnish  is 
chopped  very  finely. 

263.  Garnishing  a  la  Clamart.— Green  peas,  either 
whole  or  in  puree,  as  a  border  or  in  centre  ;  usually 
served  with  lamb  or  poultry.  Sauce,  Tomate  and 
demi-glace  blended. 

264.  Garnishing  a  la  Chateaubriand.— Fine  large 
button  mushrooms  breaded  and  baked  au  gratin,  or  pre- 
served mushroom  heads,  sauce  Madere,  with  slices  of 
truffles,  or  sauce  Perigueux,  No.  192,  for  tournedos, 
entrecotes,  or  fillets  of  beef. 

265.  Garnishing  a  la  Chesterfield  (for  Fish). — Small 
black  truffles  and  cray-fish  tail^^,  sauteed  and  finished  in 
a  little  glaze,  dressed  in  groups.  Sauce,  Genoise, 
No.  194. 

266.  Garnishing  a  la  Chevaliere.  —  Mushrooms, 
truffles,  and  cocks'  combs.  Salmis,  No.  189,  or  Demi- 
glace  sauce,  No.  185. 

267.  Garnishing  a  la  Chipolata. — Young  carrots 
and  turnips,  size  and  shape  of  olives,  parboiled  and 
braised,  boiled  and  glazed  chestnuts,  dice  of  boiled 
bacon,  mushrooms,  and  Italian  sausages. 

268.  Garnishing  a  la  St.  Cloud. — Chicken  forcemeat 
quenelles,   decorated  with   truffles,  poached  in   stock, 


448  RECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

cocks'  combs,  and  cocks'  kernels,  sauce  Allemande, 
No.  168.  The  meat  with  which  the  above  is  garnished 
is  larded  with  strips  of  truffles  and  braised. 

269.  Garnishing  a  la  Chartreuse. — Small  timbales 
of  mixed  vegetables  or  spinach,  dressed  in  groups,  with 
heaps  of  green  peas,  French  beans,  ends  of  cauhflower ; 
sauce,  Espagnole.  If  served  cold,  the  mixed  vegetables 
are  set  in  timbales  with  aspic  jelly,  and  the  cooked 
green  vegetables,  slightly  seasoned  with  Mayonnaise  or 
Tartare  sauce,  No.  213. 

270.  Garnishing  aux  Cepes. — Cut  6  to  8  preserved 
cepes  into  shreds  or  quarters,  place  in  a  small  stewpan 
with  1  large  tablespoonful  of  sweet  oil  (do  not  use  the  oil 
out  of  the  tin  in  which  the  cepes  are  preserved)  ;  add  a 
crushed  clove  of  garlic,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and 
fry  a  few  minutes. 

271.  Garnishing  a  la  Conti  (for  Poultry  and  Veal).— 
Fillets  larded  with  strips  of  truffles,  braised,  garnished 
with  slices  of  ox-tongue  and  gherkins.  Sauce,  Demi- 
glace,  No.  185. 

272.  Garnishing  a  la  Crapotine  (for  Poultry).— 
Crumbed  and  grilled,  stoned  olives  and  truffles  round 
the  sides.     Sauce,  Demi-glace  and  Tomate,  No.  202. 

273.  Garnishing  a  la  Cussy. — Finely  shredded  slices 
of  preserved  mushrooms  and  ox-tongue.  Sauce,  Veloute, 
No.  169,  enriched  with  yolks  of  eggs  and  fresh  butter  or 
cream,  or  entrees  of  chicken  and  veal. 

274.  Garnishing  a  la  Dubouzet.  —  Small  kidney 
potatoes,  the  centres  of  which  are  scooped  out,  stuffed 
with  forcemeat,  either  fish  or  meat,  according  to  the 
kind  of  dish  it  is  served  with.  The  potatoes  are  partly 
fried  and  braised  in  the  oven,  arranged  round  a  dish  of 
meat,  poultry,  or  fish,  or  put  in  the  centre.  Sauce, 
Tomate,  No.  202. 

275.  Garnishing  a  la  Dufferin  (for  Fish).— Blanched 
scallops,  cut  into  quarters,  bearded  oysters  cooked  in  a 
rich  Genoise  sauce.  Anchovy  fillets  are  added  to  the 
garnish  the  last  moment.     Sauce,  Genoise,  No.  194. 

276.  Garnishing  a  la  Duclair, — This  is  characteristic 


•GARNITURES  AND  DECORATIONS  FOR  COOKED  FOODS.  449 

with  braised  ducks,  stuffed  with  a  hver  forcemeat 
seasoned  with  savoury  herbs.  Rounds  of  toasted  or 
fried  bread,  well  buttered  on  one  side,  and  covered  with 
liver  forcemeat,  are  dressed  round  the  dish.  The  sauce 
consists  of  a  Demi-glace  well  reduced  with  claret  and 
orange  juice. 

277.  Garnishing  a  la  Durance  (for  Fish). — Cray-fish 
tails,  and  slices  of  lobster  meat  cut  into  convenient 
shapes.  The  sauce  consists  of  Hollandaise,  No.  170, 
tinted  with  lobster  butter,  No.  76. 

278.  Garnishing  a  I'Ecarlate. — Cooked  smoked  ox- 
tongue cut  into  slices,  dice,  and  sometimes  chopped. 
Sauce,  Tomate  and  Espagnole  in  equal  quantities,  well 
reduced. 

279.  Garnishing  a  I'Ecossaise.  — •  Small  timbales, 
lined  with  thin  pancakes,  made  with  a  savoury  batter, 
filled  with  lamb  forcemeat,  baked  in  the  oven,  and 
dressed  round  the  dish.     Sauce,  Demi-glace,  No.  185. 

280.  Garnishing  a  I'Espagnole. — Small  stripped 
tomatoes  and  baked  stuffing,  savoury  meat,  ham,  mush- 
rooms, carrots,  &c.,  braised  onions,  and  turned  olives. 
Sauce,  Espagnole,  No.  184,  reduced  with  sherry  and 
gravy. 

281.  Garnishing  a  la  Flamande. — Alternate  groups 
of  carrots  and  turnips,  scooped  out,  parboiled  and 
braised,  or  boiled,  cooked  green  and  French  beans,  and 
braised  Savoy  cabbage.     Sauce,  Demi-glace,  No.  185. 

282.  Garnishing  a  la  Financiere. — Blanched  sweet- 
bread cut  into  small  slices  or  dice-shaped  pieces,  mush- 
room heads,  turned  olives,  chicken  forcemeat  or 
Godivean,  No.  229,  quenelles,  cocks'  combs  and  kernels, 
and  slices  of  truffles.    Sauce,  Madere,  No.  186,  reduced. 

283.  Garnishing  a  la  Genoise. — Cut  some  thin 
strips  of  nouille  paste.  No.  793,  rolled  out  very  thinly, 
boil  in  salted  water,  drain  and  finish  in  butter,  serve  in 
centre  of  meat  or  poultry,  garnish  with  dried  truffles 
and  mushrooms.     Sauce,  Madere,  No.  186. 

284.  Garnishing  a  la  St.  George. — Prepare  small 
quenelles  of  veal  or  Godivean,  No.  229,  poach,  cook  in 


450  KECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

demi-glace,  dress  in  groups  alternately  with  mushroom 
heads. 

285.  Garnishing^  a  la  Georgienne. — Stewed  rice, 
cooked  in  rich  stock,  and  finished  with  a  rich  tomato 
puree,  shaped  into  quenelles  or  small  dumplings  by 
means  of  a  liaison  of  eggs,  bake  the  quenelles  in  a 
buttered  saute-pan  in  a  hot  oven,  and  serve  round  the 
dish.     Sauce,  Tomate,  No.  202. 

286.  Garnishing  a  la  St.  Germain. — This  garniture 
is  of  the  same  character  as  that  a  la  Clamart  (Puree  of 
Green  Peas),  either  as  a  border  or  in  the  centre  of  a 
dish.  Sauce  according  to  dish  ;  usually  Madere,  No. 
186,  or  Allemande,  No.  168. 

287.  Garnishing  a  la  Gitana. — Spanish  onions, 
boiled  and  braised,  cut  into  slices,  breaded  and  served 
over  with  tomato  sauce  well  reduced,  baked  and  dressed 
round  or  in  the  centre  of  the  dish.  Sauce,  Tomate  and 
Madere,  reduced  and  seasoned  with  sweet  red  Spanish 
pepper. 

288.  Garnishing  a  la  Grecque  (For  Roast,  Braised, 
or  Boiled  Meats).  —  Quarters  of  aubergines,  or  egg- 
plants, parboiled  in  salted  water,  drained  and  fried  in 
butter.  Dressed  in  groups  round  the  dish  or  in  the 
centre.  Sauce,  Madere,  No.  186,  and  Bearnaise,  No. 
179,  carefully  blended. 

289.  Garnishing  a  la  Godard  (Godivean  Quenelles, 
No.  229). — Slices  of  cooked  sweetbread,  cocks'  combs, 
mushroom  heads,  and  quarters  of  artichoke  bottoms, 
finished  separately  in  Madere  Sauce,  No.  186,  with  a 
glass  of  Marsala  wine  added.  Dressed  in  alternate 
groups. 

290.  Garnishing  a  la  GoufFe. — Small  round  or  oval- 
shaped  bread  croutons,  toasted  or  fried,  buttered  and 
spread  over  with  parboiled  slices  of  beef  marrow,  glazed 
over  with  meat  glaze.     Sauce,  Espagnole,  No.  184. 

291.  Garnishing  a  la  Glengarry. — Small  round 
black  truffles  and  heads  of  preserved  mushrooms, 
finished  in  a  rich  meat  or  chicken  glaze,  flavoured  with 
game  (fumet).     Sauce,  Chasseur,  No.  191. 


GARNITURES  AND  DECORATIONS  FOR  COOKED  FOODS.  451 

292.  Garnishing  a  la  Gourmet. — Artichoke  bottoms 
(preserved),  cut  into  quarters,  dice  shapes  of  mush- 
rooms, truffles,  and  cooked  ox-palate,  boiled  down  in  a 
glass  of  Marsala  wine.  Served  mixed  or  in  groups 
with  Madere  Sauce,  No.  186. 

293.  Garnishing  a  la  Gudewife.  —  Peeled  and 
blanched  onions,  cooked  in  white  stock  till  tender, 
chopped  very  finely,  re-cooked  with  a  little  bechamel 
sauce,  and  flavoured  with  mangoe  chutney.  Served  in 
the  centre  of  the  dish.     Sauce,  Demi-Glace,  No.  185. 

294.  Garnishing  a  la  St.  Hubert. — Braised  cabbage- 
lettuces,  shaped  into  balls,  braised  button  onions,  and 
Demi-glace  Sauce,  No.  185.  Served  with  roast  or 
braised  beef  and  mutton. 

295.  Garnishing  a  la  Jardiniere. — 1  small  turnip, 
1  dessertspoonful  flour,  IJ  oz.  butter,  1  pinch  castor 
sugar,  I  gill  bechamel  sauce,  J  gill  cream,  salt,  pepper, 
and  pinch  of  grated  nutmeg,  parsley,  a  pint  of  various 
kinds  of  macedoine  of  vegetables,  such  as  green  peas, 
French  beans  (cut  in  short  pieces),  turnips,  carrots 
scooped  out,  cauliflower  buds,  asparagus  tips,  &c. 

Wash  and  peel  the  turnip,  cook  it  in  salted  water 
until  tender,  strain  and  rub  through  a  sieve.  Mix 
1  oz.  butter  with  the  flour,  stir  over  the  fire  for  a  few 
minutes,  add  the  turnip  pulp,  sauce,  and  seasoning, 
let  it  come  to  a  boil ;  then  stir  in  the  cream  and  keep 
hot ;  if  found  too  thick  add  a  little  milk  or  white  stock* 
Boil  the  macedoine  of  vegetables  separately  in  salted 
water,  strain  and  put  with  the  sauce.  Let  it  get 
thoroughly  hot  without  boiling,  "finish  with  the  re- 
maining butter,  dress  in  the  centre  of  the  tendrons,, 
and  sprinkle  over  a  little  chopped  parsley. 

296.  Garnishing  a  la  Joinville. — Truffles,  coarsely 
chopped.  Eich  Veloute  Sauce,  No.  169.  Served  with 
poultry  and  braised  meats. 

297.  Garnishing  a  la  Louis  XV. — New  potatoes, 
centre  scooped  out,  filled  with  chicken  forcemeat  and 
chopped  truffles,  baked  or  braised,  served  with  fillets  of 
beef,  tournedos,  &c.     Sauce,  Madere  or  Tomate. 

29 


452  RECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

298.  Garnishing  a  la  Lyonnaise. — Peeled  onions, 
cut  into  round  slices,  dipped  in  milk  and  flour,  fried 
and  served  in  centre  of  dish.     Brown  Sauce. 

299.  G-arnishing  a  la  Milanaise.  —  Mushrooms, 
truffles,  and  smoked  and  cooked  ox -tongue,  all  cut 
into  juhenne- shaped  x^ieces.  Cooked  macaroni,  cut 
into  short  pieces,  finished  together  or  separately  in 
tomato  and  Madere  sauce,  mixed  in  equal  quantities, 
flavoured  with  grated  Parmesan  or  Gruyere  cheese. 
The  macaroni  is  sometimes  substituted  with  cooked 
rice,  richly  seasoned  with  tomato  and  cheese. 

300.  Garnishing  a  la  Marengo  (For  Chicken  Saute). 
Sliced  truffles  and  mushrooms,  eggs,  fried  whole  (folded 
in)  in  sweet  oil.  Sauce,  Tomate  and  Espagnole, 
flavoured  with  wine. 

301.  Garnishing  a  la  Montebello. — Well-reduced 
tomato  sauce.  No.  202,  blended  with  half  the  quan- 
tity of  Bearnaise,  No.  179,  with  3  or  4  truffles,  cut  into 
slices.  Sauce  and  truffles  must  be  heated  carefully 
without  boiling. 

302.  Garnishing  a  la  Napolitaine. — Cooked  maca- 
roni, with  tomato  and  cheese  flavouring,  dressed  in  the 
centre  of  dish,  or  in  timbale  shapes  round  the  dish. 
Sauce,  Tomate,  No.  202. 

303.  Garnishing  a  la  Nivernaise. — Cooked  carrots, 
turnips,  and  French  beans,  all  cut  into  julienne-shaped 
strips,  dressed  in  centre  or  round  the  dish,  served  with 
Supreme  Sauce,  No.  175,  with  an  extra  liaison  of  yolks 
of  eggs. 

304.  Garnishing  a  la  Palmeritaine. — Halves  or 
quarters  of  aubergines,  stuffed  with  savoury  meat 
stuffing  or  quenelle  meat,  baked  gratin  style,  dressed 
round  the  dish  with  potato  puree  in  the  centre. 

305.  Garnishing  a  la  Paysanne. — Braised  celery, 
olive-shapes  of  carrots  and  turnips,  also  braised  to- 
gether with  small  kidney  potatoes  parboiled  and  fried  ip 
butter,  dressed  in  alternate  groups.  Sauce,  Demi- 
glace,  No.  185. 

306.  Garnishing  a  la  Princesse. — Asparagus  points 


GARNITURES  AND  DECORATIONS  FOR  COOKED  FOODS.  453 

cooked  in  salted  water  and  drained,  finished  in  butter. 
Small  croquettes  of  chicken  and  beef,  to  represent  two 
colours,  a  light  and  a  dark ;  dressed  in  groups  round 
the  dish.  Sauce,  Demi-glace,  No.  185,  or  Tomate, 
No.  202. 

307.  Garnishing  a  la  Piemontaise. — Cooked  maca- 
roni finished  in  rich  stock,  butter,  and  cheese,  well 
blended  and  reduced  ;  filled  into  small  buttered  timbale 
moulds,  baked,  and  served  round  the  dish.  Sauce, 
Tomate,  No.  202. 

308.  Garnishing  a  la  Richelieu. — Tomatoes,  small, 
ripe,  and  firm,  centre  scooped  out,  and  filled  with  a 
mixture  of  shallots  fried  in  butter,  chopped  ham, 
chopped  truffles  and  mushrooms,  and  breadcrumbs, 
baked  gratin  style,  dressed  round  the  dish,  Sauce, 
Perigueux,  No.  192. 

309.  Garnishing  a  la  Regence. — Chicken  or  Godi- 
vean  quenelles,  sliced  truffles  and  mushrooms,  cocks' 
combs  and  kernels,  and  slices  of  cooked  sweetbread. 
Sauce,  Allemande,  No.  168,  well  reduced  with  white 
wine.     If  served  with  fish  omit  the  sweetbread. 

310.  Garnishing  a  la  Robson. — Chicken  livers  freed 
from  gall,  washed  and  dried ;  fried  in  butter,  over  a 
quick  fire ;  add  a  large  truffle  cut  into  dice,  moisten 
with  Sauce  Madere  or  Demi-glace,  and  serve  in  the 
centre  of  the  dish. 

311.  Garnishing  a  la  Rouennaise. — Young  carrots 
and  turnips  cut  into  neat  olive  shapes  and  button-onions 
sauteed  in  butter,  seasoned  with  salt,  pepper,  and  a 
pinch  of  sugar;  finished  in  the  oven  with  just  enough 
stock  or  Demi-glace  to  keep  from  burning  (shake  fre- 
quently) ;  dress  in  groups  or  serve  in  the  centre  of  the 
dish.     Sauce,  Espagnole,  No.  184. 

312.  Garnishing  a  la  Soubise. — Cut  some  white 
onions  into  slices,  boil  in  butter  without  browning, 
moisten  with  stock  (white),  cook  till  tender,  rub  through 
a  sieve,  add  a  little  bechamel  sauce  ;  reduce  well,  season 
with  salt,  pepper,  a  pinch  of  sugar,  and  grated  nutmeg. 


454 


EECHERCHE    COOKERY. 


Usually  served  with  braised  mutton  or  ducks.     Sauce, 
Demi-glace,  No.  185. 

313.  Garnishing  a  la  Tortue. — Boiled  chicken-livers, 
slices  of  cooked  sweetbread,  truffles,  and  mushrooms  aU 
cut  into  dice  shape  and  cooked  for  a  few  minutes  in 
sherry  wine ;  dressed  with  stoned  olives,  mixed,  or  in 
groups.     Sauce,  Tortue,  or  Demi-glace,  No.  185. 

314.  Garnishing  a  la  Valencienne. — This  garniture 
is  very  similar  to  "  Milanaise."  Cut  truffles,  mushrooms, 
and  smoked  ox-tongue  into  fine  shreds  (julienne  fashion). 
Add  some  cooked  rice,  season  with  salt,  pepper,  nutmeg, 
and  plenty  of  grated  cheese  ;  reduce  with  tomato  sauce, 
No.  202. 

315.  Garnishing  a  la  Windsor. — Green  haricots 
(flageolet  beans),  sprigs  of  cauhflower,  and  young 
carrots,  all  parboiled  and  cooked  separately  in  salted 
water  or  white  stock  ;  dressed  in  alternate  groups  with 
capers  :  usually  served  with  boiled  or  braised  mutton. 


CHAPTER  VI. 

DEESSED  FISH  AND  FISH  ENTEEES 
(HOT). 

{For  Cold  Dishes  see  next  Chapter.     See  also 
pp.  109-126). 

316.  Bouillabaisse. — 1  red  mullet,  1  whiting,  a 
small  eel,  a  small  lobster,  6  mussels,  1  sole,  2  small 
onions,  a  gill  of  oil,  an  ounce  of  butter,  a  quart  of  fish 
stock,  a  bouquet  garni  (No.  3),  2  cloves,  a  clove  of 
garlic,  3  small  tomatoes,  |  gill  of  claret,  a  pinch  of 
Spanish  saffron,  salt  and  pepper,  cayenne,  a  croute  of 
bread,  and  parsley. 

Peel  and  slice  the  onions,  heat  the  oil  in  a  stewpan 
and  brown  the  onions,  pour  off  a  little  of  the  oil,  add 
the  fish  stock,  claret,  the  bouquet  garni,  cloves,  also  the 
garlic  finely  bruised  or  minced  ;  dilute  the  saffron  in  a 
little  water,  and  add  to  the  stock.  Trim  and  clean  all 
the  fish,  cut  it  into  convenient  pieces  (the  sole  may  be 
filleted  to  come  in  better  for  garnish ;  the  mussels  are 
prepared  in  the  usual  way).  Season  the  fish  with  salt, 
pepper,  and  a  pinch  of  cayenne,  and  one  of  saffron. 
Put  all  the  fish  into  the  stewpan  containing  the  stock, 
and  let  cook  slowly  for  about  twenty  minutes.  Remove 
the  stalks  from  the  tomatoes,  cut  them  in  halves  cross- 
ways.  Squeeze  out  gently  some  of  the  juice,  broil  them 
in  the  butter,  and  keep  warm.  Have  ready  the  bread 
croute,  which  must  be  trimmed  according  to  the  size  of 
dish  used  for  serving ;  fry  it  a  golden  colour  in  oil  or 
fat,  fix  it  in  the  centre  of  a  deep  dish  by  means  of 
white  of  egg  or  frying  butter.  Skim  the  fat  off  the 
fish,  and  when  ready  arrange  the  pieces  neatly  on  and 
around  the   crouton,  garnish  with  the  tomatoes   and 


456  RECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

parsley,  and  send  to  table  very  hot,  with  some  of  the 
liquor  well  skimmed  and  strained. 

317.  Hure  de  Saumon  a  la  Moderne.^Head  piece  of 
salmon  (about  4  lbs),  ^-pint  Chablis  wine,  a  small 
bunch  of  parsley,  1  quart  fish  broth,  2  ozs.  butter,  1 
oz.  flour,  6  small  truffles,  1  egg,  12  mushrooms 
(heads),  12  Spanish  olives,  a  lemon,  |-lb.  fish 
sausages,  seasoning. 

Wipe  the  fish  with  a  damp  cloth,  trim  it,  truss 
neatly  with  strings,  put  it  in  a  deep  saute-pan  or  fish- 
pan,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  add  the  parsley  tied 
up  in  a  bunch,  cover  with  a  piece  of  buttered  paper, 
moisten  with  the  white  wine  and  fish  broth,  let  it  come 
to  the  boil  over  the  fire,  and  then  place  it  in  a  hot  oven 
and  let  it  simmer  gently  for  about  three-quarters  of  an 
hour  or  more  (it  depends  upon  the  thickness  of  the  fish) ; 
baste  occasionally.  When  done,  drain  the  fish  and 
place  it  on  a  dish.  In  the  meantime  melt  two  ounces 
of  butter,  add  the  flour,  and  stir  over  the  fire  until  the 
flour  is  of  a  deep  fawn  colour ;  dilute  with  the  fish 
liquor  ;  add  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon  ;  season  with  a 
little  salt  and  mignonette  pepper  ;  pass  through  a  fine 
strainer  or  napkin,  and  finish  with  the  remainder  of  the 
butter.  Remove  the  skin  from  the  fish  sausages ; 
amalgamate  with  a  yolk  of  egg ;  shape  some  little 
corks,  egg  and  crumb  them,  and  fry  in  hot  lard  a 
golden  colour  ;  prepare  the  truffles  (sliced),  mushrooms 
(whole  heads  only),  olives  (stoned  and  blanched),  for  a 
garnish  ;  sauce  the  fish  well  with  the  sauce  ;  warm  up 
the  garniture,  and  place  in  small  groups  round  the  fish, 
also  the  fish  croquets.  Garnish  the  top  of  the  fish  with 
slices  of  lemon,  truffles,  and  a  few  sprigs  of  parsley. 
Serve  hot. 

318.  Saumon  a  la  Montmorency.  —  3  lb.  salmon 
(head  piece  or  middle  cut),  1  bouquet  garni,  1  oz.  butter, 
1  chopped  shallot,  1  carrot,  1  sliced  onion,  18  olives, 
1  glass  claret,  |  gill  wine  vinegar,  salt,  pepper,  aromatic 
seasoning,  fpint  of  Matelote  sauce,  No.  160. 

Clean  and  wash  the  fish,  truss  it  nicely,  put  it  in  a  well- 


DEESSED    FISH    AND    FISH    ENTREES    (HOT)  .      457 

buttered  saute-pan  with  the  shced  carrot,  onion,  bouquet 
of  herbs,  and  seasoning  to  taste.  Moisten  with  the  wine 
and  vinegar.  Cover  wdth  a  buttered  paper.  Put  it  in  the 
oven  and  cook  about  an  hour,  baste  well  from  time  to 
time.  When  ready  for  serving  take  it  out,  dish  up,  re- 
move the  upper  skin,  and  keep  hot.  Fry  the  shallot  in 
a  little  butter;  add  to  it  the  liquor  left  from  the  fish  ;  boil 
up  and  add  the  Matelote  sauce.  Reduce  a  little,  sauce 
over  the  fish,  garnish  with  stoned  and  stuffed  Spanish 
olives,  and  serve  the  remainder  of  the  sauce  separately. 
319.  Darne  de  Saumon  a  la  National. — x\bout  3  lbs. 
salmon  (tail  piece),  one  carrot,  1  onion,  1  turnip,  a 
bouquet  of  herbs,  1  small  piece  of  celery,  6  pepper- 
corns, 1  quart  of  fish  stock,  2  small  cucumbers,  1  gill 
Chablis,  3  or  4  potatoes,  salt,  parsley,  2  ozs.  butter,  1  oz. 
flour,  1  gill  of  milk,  grated  nutmeg  and  pepper,  1  table- 
spoonful  of  cream. 

Cut  the  fish  into  slices  about  half  an  inch  thick. 
Butter  a  saute-pan,  cut  up  the  carrot,  turnip,  celery, 
and  onion  (previously  prepared),  into  thin  slices.  Line 
the  saute-pan  with  these,  put  in  the  fish,  season  with  a 
dessert-spoonful  of  salt ;  cover  with  the  remainder 
of  vegetables,  add  the  peppercorns  and  savoury  herbs ; 
moisten  with  a  pint  of  fish  stock  and  the  Chablis  wine  ; 
cover  with  a  buttered  paper  and  cook  in  a  slow  oven  for 
about  thirty  minutes.  Wash  and  peel  the  potatoes,  peel 
thinly  the  cucumber,  scoop  out  as  many  round  balls  as 
possible.  Blanch  them,  each  lot  separately,  and  drain, 
and  cook  gently  in  some  white  stock  or  salted  water, 
until  tender,  then  drain  and  keep  hot  until  wanted. 
Take  out  the  salmon  with  a  sHce,  place  it  neatly  on 
a  hot  dish,  cover  and  keep  hot.  In  the  meantime  have 
ready  a  white  roux,  prepared  with  one  and  a  half  ounces 
of  butter  and  one  ounce  of  flour,  strain  in  the  stock 
left  from  the  fish,  add  the  milk  (boiling),  also  the  trim- 
mings of  the  cucumbers,  previously  blanched  in  salted 
water.  Let  the  whole  come  to  a  boil,  and  allow  to 
simmer  for  twenty  minutes,  adding  more  stock  as  the 
sauce  reduces.     Pass  through  a   tammy  or  fine  sieve, 


458  RECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

return  to  the  stewpan,  and  finish  with  the  cream ; 
season  with  a  pinch  of  white  pepper  and  a  grate  of 
nutmeg.  Pour  the  sauce  over  the  shces  of  fish  so  as  to 
mask  them  nicely.  Besprinkle  with  chopped  parsley ; 
garnish  the  sides  with  groups  of  the  turned  potatoes 
and  cucumber,  and  serve  hot. 

320.  Darne  de  Saumon  a  la  Chambord. — Wash  and 
dry  a  middle  cut  of  salmon  weighing  about  four 
pounds  ;  put  it  in  a  stewpan  with  one  and  a  half  pint  of 
stock,  one  carrot,  an  onion  stuck  with  a  clove,  one  gill 
of  white  wine,  one  ounce  of  butter,  a  bouquet  garni, 
and  a  few  peppercorns ;  season  with  a  little  salt,  cover  it 
over  and  simmer  slowly  over  the  fire  for  about  an  hour. 
When  done  take  up  the  salmon,  strain  the  stock  into  a 
small  saucepa.n,  add  one  ladleful  of  Espagnole  sauce  and 
one  of  tomato  sauce ;  let  boil  for  ten  mmutes,  skim 
well,  stir  in  two  pats  of  fresh  butter,  a  teaspoonful  of 
anchovy  paste,  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  and  pass  through  a 
tammy  cloth.  Have  ready  a  garnishing  consisting  of 
twenty-four  small  poached  fish  quenelles  (made  with 
whiting  forcemeat.  No.  228),  twelve  mushroom  heads, 
eight  crayfish  tails,  eight  cooked  oysters,  and  three 
sliced  truffles.  Dish  up  the  piece  of  salmon,  remove  the 
skin  on  the  surface,  garnish  top  and  side  with  the  garni- 
ture and  a  decorated  atelet  skewer ;  sauce  over  gently, 
and  serve  the  remaiader  of  the  sauce  in  a  boat. 

321.  Saumon  en  Papillotes. — 2  lb.  salmon,  J  lb. 
cooked  ham,  2  oz.  butter,  2  shallots,  1  small  onion, 
8  mushrooms,  1  tablespoonful  parsley  (chopped),  1  tea- 
spoonful  salt,  ^  teaspoonful  pepper. 

Cut  the  salmon  into  six  or  eight  even  slices,  remove 
the  skin,  beat  them  gently  with  a  bat,  season  with  salt 
and  pepper,  and  roll  them.  Cut  out  as  many  heart- 
shaped  pieces  of  paper  as  you  have  slices,  grease  them 
well  with  butter  or  oil.  Cut  double  the  quantity  of 
thin  slices  of  ham.  Peel  and  chop  finely  the  shallots 
and  onion,  put  them  in  a  saucepan,  with  an  ounce  of 
butter,  previously  heated,  and  brown  slightly.  Then 
add  the  parsley  and  mushrooms  chopped  fine,  season 


DRESSED    FISH    AND    FISH    ENTREES    (HOT).       459 

with  salt  and  pepper  and  let  cool.  Lay  a  slice  of  ham 
on  each  piece  of  paper,  spread  over  these  a  layer  of 
the  cooked  herbs,  place  a  rolled  slice  of  salmon  on 
each,  spread  with  a  thin  layer  of  cooked  herbs,  and 
cover  with  another  slice  of  ham,  then  fold  the  paper 
and  twist  the  edges  together,  or  tie  up  with  string. 
Put  them  on  a  buttered  baking-tin  or  sautoir,  and  bake 
for  twenty  minutes  in  a  slow  oven.  Have  ready  a  hot 
dish,  remove  the  fish  from  the  tin,  and  if  tied  remove 
the  string,  dress  them  neatly  on  the  dish,  leaving  the 
paper  on,  and  serve  hot. 

322.  Mousselines  de  Saumon  a  la  Cardinal. — 1  lb. 
salmon,  ^  oz.  butter,  ^  pint  well-reduced  bechamel, 
No.  167,  1  white  of  egg,  lobster  coral,  2  truffles. 
Seasoning,  Cardinal  sauce.  No.  162. 

Skim  and  bone  the  salmon,  pound  in  a  mortar 
until  quite  fine,  add  gradually  the  reduced  bechamel 
sauce  and  the  white  of  egg.  Season  with  pepper,  salt, 
and  a  pinch  of  cayenne  or  Nepaul  pepper.  Put  through 
a  fine  wire  or  hair  sieve,  and  keep  on  the  ice  until 
wanted. 

Butter  a  number  of  small  dariole  or  timbale 
moulds,  decorate  the  bottom  and  sides  of  each  with 
fanciful  cut  slices  of  truffles,  sprinkle  all  over  the 
inside  with  finely  chopped  dried  lobster  coral.  Fill 
them  with  the  salmon  forcemeat,  steam  for  twenty- 
five  minutes,  dish  up  on  a  hot  dish,  and  serve  with 
Sauce  Cardinal. 

323.  Truites  a  la  Cambaoeres. — 2  small  trout,  ^  lb. 
lean  bacon,  small  bunch  of  herbs  and  parsley,  1  gill  white 
wine,  i  pint  white  stock,  |  oz.  butter,  1|  gill  well- 
reduced  Espagnole,  No.  184,  8  olives,  stuifed,  1  large 
truffle,  8  mushrooms,  fleurons.  Salt,  pepper,  lemon 
juice. 

Clean  and  wash  the  fish,  put  in  a  bed  of  slices  of 
bacon,  herbs,  and  parsley,  in  a  braising  or  saute-pan, 
moisten  with  wine  and  stock.  Season  with  pepper  and 
salt,  cover  with  buttered  paper,  and  cook  in  a  quick 
oven  from  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes.     When  done  lift 


460  RECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

out  the  fish  carefully  and  dish  up ;  reduce  the  liquor, 
skim  and  strain,  add  sauce  and  reduce  again,  flavour 
with  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice,  finish  with  ^  oz.  of 
fresh  butter,  warm  up  the  garnish  slices  of  truffles,  heads 
of  mushrooms,  and  stuffed  olives,  in  a  little  stock  or 
sauce.  Garnish  the  dish  tastefully  with  the  above  and 
sauce  over  carefully,  put  a  few  fleurons  round  the  dish 
and  serve. 

324.  Filets  de  Truite  Frites  a  la  Milanaise. — 2  or 

3  small  trout,  i  gill  ohve  oil,  1  lemon,  1  dessert- 
spoonful chopped  parsley,  1  egg,  1  oz.  grated  Parmesan, 
salt,  pepper,  breadcrumbs,  lard  or  olive  oil  for  frying, 
fried  parsley  for  garnish. 

Steep  the  fish  in  boiUng  water  for  about  a  minute,, 
peel  oft'  the  skin,  split  each  lengthwise  and  remove  the 
bone.  Put  the  fillets  m  a  piedish  or  other  flat  dish, 
season  with  salt  and  pepper,  moisten  with  oil,  sufficient 
to  cover,  add  the  juice  of  one  lemon,  and  let  it  soak 
thus  for  about  an  hour.  Beat  up  the  egg  and  mix 
with  the  chopped  parsley.  Mix  sufficient  freshly  made 
breadcrumbs  with  the  grated  Parmesan  cheese.  Drain 
the  fillets,  rub  them  over  on  each  side  mth  a  little 
flour,  dip  them  in  the  beaten  egg  and  cover  well  with 
the  prepared  crumbs.  Have  ready  some  lard  or  oil  in 
a  deep  saute-pan  ;  when  hot,  put  in  the  fillets  and  fry 
a  golden  colour.  Drain  well  on  a  cloth  or  paper,  dish 
up,  garnish  with  fried  parsley  and  serve  with  Sauce 
Itahenne,  No.  188. 

325.  Turbot  Bouilli  a   la  Victoria. — About  3  to 

4  lbs.  of  turbot,  1  small  onion  stuck  with  a  clove,  a 
small  bunch  of  parsley,  a  tablespoonful  of  French 
vinegar,  10  small  lobster  croquets,  6  prawns,  salt, 
lobster  sauce. 

Wipe  the  fish  with  a  damp  cloth,  place  it  in  the 
fish-kettle,  cover  well  with  water,  put  in  the  onion  and 
clove,  also  the  parsley,  vinegar,  and  sufficient  salt  to 
taste,  let  it  come  to  the  boil  quickly,  and  simmer  until 
the  fish  is  done,  which  will  take  about  twenty  minutes, 
more  or  less,  according  to  the  thickness  of  the  fish. 


DRESSED    FISH    AND    FISH    ENTREES    (hOT).       461 

When  done,  drain  it  and  slide  on  a  hot  dish.  Have 
ready  some  small  ball-shaped  lobster  croquets  ;  also 
the  prawns ;  garnish  the  dish  with  the  croquets, 
prawns,  and  a  few  sprigs  of  parsley.  Serve  with  a 
boat  of  Victoria  sauce,  No.  163. 

326.  Turbot  a  la  Provencale. — About  2|  lbs.  turbot 
(middle  cut),  J  pint  Veloute  sauce.  No.  169,  1  gill  white 
mne,  2  small  shallots  chopped  fine,  1  gill  white  stock, 
2  oz.  butter,  2  yolks  of  eggs,  1  teaspoonful  anchovy 
paste,  2  teaspoonfuls  capers,  1  teaspoonful  chopped 
parsley,  a  small  bunch  of  parsley  and  herbs  (bouquet), 
No.  3. 

Wash  and  wipe  the  fish  well,  cut  it  into  thick  slices 
or  leave  whole,  place  it  in  a  stewpan,  season  with 
pepper  and  salt,  and  add  Veloute  sauce,  white  wine, 
stock,  chopped  shallots,  and  bouquet  garni.  Set  it  to 
simmer  slowly  until  the  fish  is  done,  baste  occasionally. 
Put  the  fish  on  a  dish  and  keep  warm.  Reduce  the 
sauce  until  you  obtain  the  desired  consistency.  Remove 
the  herbs,  add  the  yolks  of  eggs,  work  in  the  butter, 
and  pass  through  a  cloth.  Return  to  a  smaller  stew- 
pan,  add  the  anchovy  paste,  chopped  parsley,  and 
capers,  stir  a  few  minutes  over  the  fire,  and  pour  over 
the  fish. 

327.  Limandes  en  Souchet  (Souchet  of  Flounders). — 
4  to  6  flounders,  2  small  onions,  1  bouquet  garni, 
No.  3,  ^  carrot,  ^  turnip,  1  slice  of  parsnip,  10  pepper- 
corns, fish  stock  or  water,  salt,  parsley.  Thinly  cut 
brown  bread  and  butter,  i  lemon. 

Trim  the  fish,  and  place  them  in  a  saute-pan, 
season  with  a  good  pinch  of  salt,  add  the  onions  cut 
in  slices,  the  bouquet  of  herbs,  and  peppercorns,  cover 
with  stock  or  water,  allow  it  to  boil,  and  let  simmer 
slowly  for  about  ten  minutes.  Cut  the  carrot,  turnip,, 
and  parsnip  into  fine  strips  (julienne  shapes),  and  cook 
till  tender  in  fish  stock  or  salted  water.  Take  up  the 
flounders,  dish  up  neatly  on  a  deep  entree  dish.  Strain 
the  liquor,  and  if  found  cloudy  clarify  with  raw  white 
of  egg.     Blanch  and  chop  a  little  parsley,  strain  the 


462  EECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

vegetable,  add  it  to  the  fish  Uquor,  pour  this  over  the 
fish,  sprinkle  over  with  parsley.  Garnish  with  a  few 
thin  slices  of  lemon,  and  serve  with  brown  bread  and 
butter,  which  is  handed  round  along  with  the  fish. 

Note. — Soles  and  almost  any  white  fish  may  be 
served  as  souchet.  A  souchet  is  usually  served  in  hot 
soup-plates ;  one  small  flounder  or  half  a  large  one  is 
reckoned  as  one  portion. 

328.  Cabillaud  Eecrepi  Bouilli. — Procure  about 
2 J  lb.  of  crimped  cod  (middle  cut),  wipe  it  with  a 
cloth,  place  in  a  fish-kettle,  cover  completely  with  cold 
water,  season  with  a  small  handful  of  salt,  add  a 
medium-sized  sliced  onion,  one  clove,  a  few  pepper- 
corns, and  half  a  wineglassful  of  French  wine  vinegar. 
Let  it  come  to  the  boil  quickly,  and  allow  it  to  simmer 
very  gently  for  about  five  minutes,  when  the  fish  will 
be  sufficiently  cooked.  Drain  it  well,  dish  up  on  a 
folded  napkin,  and  serve  on  a  hot  dish  with  a  suitable 
sauce. 

329.  Cabillaud  a  la  Maltaise.— About  2|  lbs.  cod- 
fish (middle  cut),  i  pint  Veloute  sauce  (No.  169),  1  gill 
white  wine,  2  small  shallots  (chopped  fine),  1  gill  white 
stock,  2  oz.  butter,  2  yolks  of  eggs,  1  teaspoonful  an- 
chovy paste,  2  teaspoonfuls  capers,  1  teaspoonful  chopped 
parsley,  a  small  bunch  parsley  and  herbs  (bouquet), 
No.  3. 

"Wash  and  wipe  the  fish  well,  place  it  in  a  stewpan, 
season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  add  Veloute  sauce, 
white  wine,  stock,  chopped  shallots,  and  bouquet  garni. 
Set  it  to  simmer  slowly  until  the  fish  is  done  ;  baste 
occasionally.  Put  the  fish  on  a  dish  and  keep  warm. 
Eeduce  the  sauce  until  you  obtain  the  desired  con- 
sistency. Remove  the  herbs,  add  the  yolks  of  eggs, 
work  in  the  butter,  and  pass  through  a  cloth.  Return 
to  a  smaller  stewpan,  add  the  anchovy  paste,  chopped 
parsley,  and  capers ;  stir  a  few  minutes  over  the  fire, 
and  pour  over  the  fish. 

330.  Cabillaud  Frit  a  I'lndienne  (Fried  Cod,  Indian 
style). — About  IJ  lb.  cod  (middle  cut  of  tail  end),  2  eggs, 


DRESSED    FISH    AND    FISH    ENTREES    (HOT).       463 

3  French  gherkins,  J  lemon,  2  tablespoonfuls  piccaHlly, 
breadcrumbs,  frying  fat,  salt,  cayenne. 

Cut  the  fish  into  five  or  six  neat  scollops  about  half 
an  inch  thick.  Season  with  salt  and  a  little  cayenne, 
beat  up  one  egg,  boil  the  other  till  hard,  dip  the  slices 
of  fish  in  egg,  cover  well  with  breadcrumbs,  and  fry  in 
hot  fat  a  golden  colour ;  drain  and  dish  up.  In  the 
meantime  prepare  a  garnish  consisting  of  gherkins,  hard- 
boiled  white  of  egg,  and  piccalilly,  all  cut  up  into 
juhenne  strips.  Warm  up  in  a  little  butter,  moisten 
with  fish  stock,  garnish  the  dish  tastefully  with  alter- 
nate groups  of  the  above  and  fanciful-cut  slices  of  lemon. 
Send  to  table  with  Sauce  Indienne,  No.  209. 

331.  Sole  a  la  Normande. — Clean,  skin,  and  trim 
two  large  soles  ;  make  an  incision  about  a  quarter  of  an 
inch  deep  along  each  side  of  the  bone  of  the  skinned 
part.  Place  in  a  buttered  saute-pan,  season  with  pepper 
and  salt,  moisten  with  a  gill  of  white  wine,  sprinkle 
with  a  finely  chopped  shallot,  place  a  few  bits  of  butter 
here  and  there,  and  cook  it  in  the  oven  for  about  ten 
minutes.  Have  ready  a  garniture  of  prepared  oysters, 
mussels,  and  button  mushrooms.  Put  the  sole  on  a 
dish,  dress,  and  garnish  neatly ;  sauce  over  with  Nor- 
mande sauce  in  which  the  garniture  has  been  cooked  ; 
garnish  the  sides  with  croutes  of  bread  made  from 
rasped  French  dinner-rolls  (buttered  slices  browned  in 
the  oven).  Serve  the  remaining  sauce  separately  in  a 
sauce-boat. 

Fillets  of  soles  are  done  in  the  same  way.  They  are 
folded  and  dished  up  in  a  row,  one  overlapping  the  other, 
and  a  mushroom  head  placed  on  each  fillet.  The  mus- 
sels and  oysters  are  placed  in  groups  round  the  sides  of 
the  fillets.  Scollops  are,  in  some  case,  used  as  garnish, 
but  only  when  mussels  are  not  obtainable. 

If  smelts  are  in  season  this  dish  should  be  garnished 
with  a  few  fried  smelts  in  addition  to  the  other  garniture. 

332.  Sauce  Normande. — Dissolve  an  ounce  and  a 
half  of  butter  in  a  stewpan,  add  an  ounce  of  floor,  stir 
long  enough  to  cook  the  flour,  moisten  with  about  a 


464  RECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

pint  of  white  stock  and  the  hquor  of  the  sole.  Allow  to 
boil  for  ten  minutes,  skim  well,  and  finish  with  a  liaison 
of  two  yolks  of  eggs ;  stir  in  bit  by  bit  one  omice  of 
fresh  butter  and  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice ;  pass  through 
a  fine  strainer  or  tammy  cloth,  and  use  as  directed. 

333.  Filets  de  Soles  a  la  Mornay. — 2  medium-sized 
soles  (filleted),  1  gill  white  wine,  |  lemon,  IJ  oz.  grated 
Gruyere  cheese,  i  pint  milk,  1  oz.  grated  Parmesan, 
I  oz.  flour,  3  oz.  fresh  butter,  1  small  onion,  1  bouquet 
garni  (No.  3),  pepper  and  salt,  aromatic  seasoning. 

Trim  the  fillets  a  little,  range  them  closely,  but 
neatly,  on  a  buttered  saute-pan  or  oval  dish  ;  season 
with  pepper  and  salt ;  moisten  with  a  few  drops  of 
lemon  juice  and  the  white  wine  ;  cover  with  finely  sliced 
onion,  put  buttered  paper  on  top,  and  cook  in  the  oven 
for  about  eight  minutes.  Put  the  milk  in  a  small  sauce- 
pan, add  the  bouquet  garni,  the  bones  and  trimmings 
left  from  the  sole,  and  a  good  pinch  of  aromatic  season- 
ing, and  the  essence  from  the  fillets.  Let  the  whole 
reduce  to  about  half  the  original  quantity.  Mix  the  flour 
with  half  the  quantity  of  butter,  and  add  to  the  stock 
thus  made,  previously  strained.  Stir  with  a  whisk  over 
the  fire  for  about  ten  minutes,  incorporate  the  grated 
cheese,  and  the  remainder  of  the  butter.  Spread  a  layer 
of  sauce  on  an  oval  flat  silver  dish,  range  the  cooked 
fillets  in  a  row  on  this,  sauce  over  well,  sprinkle  thickly 
with  grated  cheese.  Put  the  dish  in  a  very  brisk  oven 
for  five  minutes,  or  under  a  hot  salamander,  to  colour 
the  surface,  and  serve. 

334.  Soles  au  Parmesan. — 2  medium- sized  soles, 
1  oz.  flour,  1  table-spoonful  mushroom  juice,  2  oz.  butter, 
1^  oz.  grated  Parmesan,  1  gill  of  milk,  salt,  pepper,  and 
nutmeg. 

Skin,  trim,  and  wipe  two  medium- sized  soles,  place 
them  in  a  buttered  saute-pan,  season  with  salt  and 
pepper,  pour  over  them  the  mushroom  juice,  cover  wuth 
a  buttered  paper,  and  cook  in  the  oven  until  done.  This 
will  take  from  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes,  according  to  the 
heat  of  the  oven.     In  the  meantime  put  the  milk  to  boil, 


DRESSED    FISH    AND    FISH    ENTREES    (HOT).       465 

melt  the  butter  in  a  stewpan,  add  the  flour,  and  stir  over 
the  fire  until  the  flour  becomes  of  a  fawn  colour  ;  now  add 
the  boiling  milk,  about  an  ounce  of  the  grated  Parmesan 
cheese,  and  a  little  boiling  water ;  stir  over  the  fire 
until  it  boils,  let  it  simmer  for  about  ten  minutes,  adding 
a  little  more  water  or  fish  stock,  if  you  have  any,  if  the 
sauce  should  appear  too  thick ;  season  with  salt,  pepper, 
and  a  little  grated  nutmeg.  The  soles  being  cooked  by 
this  time,  place  them  on  an  oblong,  flat  dish,  add  the 
liquor  which  remains  in  the  saute-pan  to  the  sauce, 
strain  it,  and  pour  over  the  fish  ;  sprinkle  with  the  grated 
Parmesan  remaining.  Place  the  dish  in  the  oven  or 
under  a  hot  salamander  just  long  enough  for  the  top  to 
take  colour,  and  serve  in  the  same  dish. 

335.  Filets  de  Soles  a  la  Xavier. — 2  medium-sized 
soles,  I  gill  white  wine,  ^  oz.  butter,  salt,  pepper,  enough 
whiting  forcemeat  to  fill  a  border  mould,  Xavier  sauce, 
No.  159. 

Skin  the  soles,  fillet  them,  tie  each  fillet  in  a  knot, 
and  place  them  on  a  buttered  baking-sheet.  Season 
with  pepper  and  salt,  add  the  \vine,  cover  with  a  piece 
of  buttered  paper,  and  cook  for  ten  minutes  in  a  quick 
oven.  Butter  a  border  mould,  fill  up  with  whiting  force- 
meat. No.  228.  Cook  in  the  oven  in  a  saute-pan  half 
filled  with  boiling  water  for  about  twenty  minutes. 
When  done,  turn  out  on  a  hot  dish.  Dress  the  cooked 
fillets  in  a  circle  on  the  border.  Cover  completely  with 
hot  Xavier  sauce,  No.  159.  Sprinkle  a  few  drops  of 
liquid  meat  glaze  over  the  surface,  and  serve.  Use  the 
fish  bones  and  essence  of  the  fillets  in  making  the  above 
sauce. 

336.  Filets  de  Soles  a  la  Trouville.— Skin  three 
medium-sized  soles,  take  up  the  fillets,  fold,  flatten 
slightly,  and  trim  them  neatly ;  place  in  a  well-buttered 
sautoir  ;  season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  grated  nutmeg ; 
moisten  with  a  gill  of  white  wine  and  a  little  white 
stock,  cover  over,  and  let  cook  for  about  fifteen  minutes 
over  a  quick  fire  ;  drain  the  fillets  and  keep  warm. 
Next  put  in  the  sautoir  a  dozen  mushroom  heads,  with 


466  EECHEECHE    COOKERY. 

a  little  of  their  liquor ;  also  a  dozen  mussels,  and  a 
dozen  oysters  ;  cook  these  together  until  thoroughly  hot. 
Dish  up  the  fillets  en  couronne,  alternating  each  fillet 
with  one  large  oyster.  Reduce  the  gravy  with  half  a 
pint  of  bechamel  sauce,  No.  167,  take  out  mushrooms 
and  mussels,  thicken  with  two  yolks  of  eggs  and  a  pat 
of  fresh  butter ;  pass  through  a  napkin  or  tammy  cloth, 
return  to  the  sautoir  with  the  garnishing  ;  range  the 
heads  of  mushrooms  on  the  top  of  the  fillets,  and  the 
remainder  of  garnishing  in  the  centre  of  dish ;  sauce 
over,  sprinkle  with  a  Httle  dissolved  meat  glaze,  and 
serve. 

337.  Paupiettes  de  Filets  de  Soles  a  la  Richelieu. — 
2  large  soles,  1  whiting,  3  oz.  breadcrumbs,  3  oz. 
butter,  4  yolks  of  eggs,  2  oz.  lobster  meat,  1  oz.  lobster 
butter,  2  tablespoonfuls  cream,  1  finely  chopped  shallot^ 
1  gill  white  wine,  1  dessert-spoonful  chopped  parsley, 
lemon  juice,  pepper  and  salt,  8  small  croutes  of  fried 
bread,  8  mushroom  heads,  1  truffle,  \  oz.  flour,  J  pint 
white  stock. 

Skin  the  soles,  remove  the  fillets,  and  flatten  a 
little  ;  pat  the  bones  in  a  stewpan  with  ^  pint  of  water 
and  the  stock,  reduce  to  half,  and  strain.  Skin  and 
hone  the  whiting,  pound  in  a  mortar  till  smooth, 
moisten  the  breadcrumbs  with  the  cream,  add  to  the 
pounded  fish  with  the  shallot  and  lobster  meat,  pound 
and  mix  thoroughly  ;  now  add  1\  oz.  butter  and  three 
yolks  of  eggs,  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  add  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  chopped  parsley,  mingle  well,  and  rub 
through  a  sieve. 

Spread  one  side  of  each  fillet  with  the  forcemeat, 
roll  up,  trim  a  little,  and  wrap  each  fillet  in  a  piece  of 
buttered  paper.  Place  them  closely  in  a  buttered 
saute-pan,  sprinkle  with  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice, 
and  cook  for  five  minutes  in  the  oven ;  then  add  the- 
wine,  baste  well,  and  cook  another  ten  minutes,  or 
longer  if  needed.  Spread  one  side  of  each  croute  with 
a  Httle  of  the  remaining  forcemeat,  and  bake  for  a 
few  minutes.     Take  up  the  fillets,  remove  the  paper^ 


DRESSED    FISH    AND    FISH    ENTREES    (HOT)  .       467 

place  each  upright  on  the  croiites,  put  a  mushroom 
head  on  each,  and  keep  hot.  In  the  meantime,  knead 
1  oz.  butter  with  the  flour,  stir  over  the  fire  for  a  few 
minutes,  add  the  Hquor  of  the  fillets  and  the  reduced 
stock,  stir  until  it  boils,  and  simmer  for  fifteen 
minutes  ;  bind  with  the  yolk  of  egg,  strain,  work  in  the 
lobster  butter,  and  season  to  taste.  Dish  up  the 
paupiettes,  sauce  over,  sprinkle  with  chopped  parsley, 
place  a  star  of  truffles  in  the  centre  of  each,  and  serve. 

338.  Filets  de  Soles  a  la  Chasseur  Royal. — 3 
medium-sized  soles,  2  large  truffles,  1  small  whiting, 
1  oz.  butter,  12  oysters,  12  preserved  mushrooms, 
1  glass  white  wine,  3  oz.  panade,  2  eggs,  seasoning, 
1  tablespoonful  cream.  Sauce,  Cliasseur  Royal,  No.  158. 

Remove  the  skin  from  the  soles  and  fillet  them. 
Skin  and  bone  the  whiting,  pound  in  a  mortar  till 
smooth,  add  the  panade,  J  oz.  butter,  salt  to  taste,  a 
pinch  of  cayenne  and  a  grate  of  nutmeg ;  mix 
thoroughly,  and  work  in  the  cream  and  the  eggs.  Rub 
through  a  fine  sieve,  fill  up  a  well-buttered  fluted 
border  mould  sprinkled  mth  breadcrumbs  or  panu- 
rette,  cover  with  buttered  paper,  and  bake  in  a 
moderately  heated  oven  from  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes. 
In  the  meantime  flatten  the  fillets  of  soles  a  little,  fold 
each  into  halves,  range  them  neatly  in  a  buttered 
saute-pan,  season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  a  few  drops  of 
lemon  juice,  moisten  with  a  small  glass  of  white  wine, 
cover  with  a  buttered  paper,  and  cook  slowly  in  the 
oven ;  they  will  take  about  ten  minutes.  Blanch  the 
oysters,  remove  the  beards,  cut  them  into  quarters,  slice 
the  mushrooms,  and  put  in  a  small  stewpan ;  moisten 
with  Chasseur  Royal  sauce  (see  No.  158),  cut  the  truffles 
into  sHces,  stamp  out  eight  nice  stars,  and  keep  for 
garnish.  Add  the  remainder  of  slices  with  the  above 
garnishing,  strain  the  liquor  of  the  fillets  into  this  along 
with  the  sauce,  and  cook  for  a  few  minutes.  Unmould 
the  border  on  to  a  hot  entree  dish,  dress  the  fillets 
neatly  on  to  this  {en  couronne),  place  a  star  of  truffles 
on  top  of  each  fillet,  put  the  dish  in  the  oven  to  get 

30 


468  KECHEKCHE    COOKERY. 

thoroughly  hot,  fill  the  centre  with  the  prepared  garni- 
ture, pour  a  little  Sauce  Chasseur  Royal  over  the  garnish 
and  some  round  the  border,  and  serve  the  remainder 
separately  with  the  dish. 

339.  Filets  de  Merlars  a  la  Juive. — 3  medium- 
sized  skinned  whitings,  2  tablespoonfuls  sweet  oil, 
1  oz.  of  vinegar  (French  wine),  1  dessert-spoonful 
chopped  parsley,  pepper,  salt,  parsley  for  garnish,  frying 
batter,  fat  for  frying,  Joinville  sauce,  No.  161. 

Remove  the  fillets,  flatten  them  slightly,  fold  them 
in  twos,  pare  neatly,  and  put  in  a  deep  dish ;  season 
with  pepper  and  salt,  sprinkle  over  the  oil,  vinegar,  and 
chopped  parsley,  let  them  lie  in  soak  for  one  or  two 
hours.  Take  out,  drain,  dip  in  frying  batter  (previously 
prepared),  fry  in  hot  clarified  fat  or  butter  a  golden 
colour,  drain  on  a  cloth  or  paper,  dish  up  on  a  folded 
napkin,  garnish  with  fried  parsley,  and  serve  with 
Joinville  sauce. 

340.  Filets  de  Merlans  Frits  a  la  Tyrolieime. — 
Remove  the  fillets  of  five  medium-sized  whitings 
(skinned)  ;  season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  lemon  juice, 
roU  ha  flour,  dip  in  egg  beaten  with  a  tablespoonful  of 
sweet  oil,  roll  in  fresh  breadcrumbs,  smooth  them  with 
a  knife.  Dip  the  ends  of  each  fillet  in  egg,  thrust  a 
small  skewer  through  each  to  give  them  the  shape  of 
rings,  fry  light  brown  in  clear  hot  fat,  drain  them  care- 
fully on  a  drainer,  pile  up  on  a  folded  napkin,  put  some 
fried  parsley  on  the  top,  garnish  with  quartered  lemons, 
and  serve  with  a  well-buttered  tomato  sauce,  No.  203. 

341.  Filets  de  Merlans  au  Gratin.  —  4  small 
whitings  filleted,  8  preserved  mushrooms,  1  glass 
Chablis  or  Sauterne,  2oz.  butter,  chopped  parsley,  1  gill 
Sauce  Italienne,  No.  188,  ^  lemon,  pepper  and  salt, 
breadcrumbs. 

Trim  the  fillets  neatly,  lay  them  on  a  buttered  silver- 
plated  gratin  or  fire -proof  china  dish ;  sprinkle  over  a 
few  drops  of  lemon  juice,  season  with  pepper  and  salt, 
add  the  wine  and  a  little  mushroom  liquor  if  handy ; 
put  in  the  oven  for  ten  minutes.     Take  out,  pour  off 


DBESSED    FISH    AND    FISH    ENTREES    (HOT)  .       469 

the  liquor  and  put  into  the  sauce.  Boil  up  the  sauce, 
cut  the  mushrooms  into  slices,  and  lay  neatly  in  a  row 
on  the  fillets  ;  sauce  over  carefully,  sprinkle  with  bread- 
crumbs, place  a  few  little  bits  of  butter  here  and  there, 
and  bake  for  another  ten  minutes.  Place  the  dish  on 
another  dish  and  serve. 

342.  Souffle  de  Marian.— 3  small  or  2  large  whitings 
2  oz.  flour,  3  oz.  butter,  ^  pint  milk,  1  gill  cream,  1  tea- 
spoonful  anchovy  essence,  4  eggs,  pepper  and  salt. 

Skin  the  fish,  free  it  from  bones,  and  chop  the  fillets 
finely  or  pound  in  a  mortar.  Butter  a  souffle  tin,  and 
fasten  a  well-buttered  paper  band  round  the  top, 
sprinkle  the  inside  of  the  mould  with  a  few  brown 
breadcrumbs.  Put  the  remainder  of  the  butter  into  a 
stewpan,  when  hot  stir  in  the  flour,  cook  a  little  without 
browning ;  add  the  milk,  stir  briskly  until  smooth,  then 
add  the  cream,  cook  a  little  longer,  stirring  all  the  while. 
Remove  from  the  fire,  cool  a  little,  work  in  the  yolks  of 
eggs,  anchovy  essence,  and  lastly  the  fish.  Mix  well, 
season  with  pepper  and  salt.  Whisk  the  whites  of  eggs 
to  a  stiff  froth,  add  this  to  the  mixture,  pour  it  into  the 
mould,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for  about  forty 
minutes.     Dish  up  and  serve  with  a  suitable  fish  sauce. 

343.  Rougets  a  la  Venitieime. — Clean  and  wash  five 
nice  red  mullets,  wipe  them  dry ;  put  into  a  saute-pan 
one  dessert-spoonful  of  chopped  parsley,  one  of  chopped 
onions,  one  of  chopped  mushrooms,  two  tablespoonfuls 
of  sweet  oil,  and  a  small  glass  of  sherry ;  lay  in  the 
mullets,  season  with  pepper  and  salt  ;  moisten  with  a 
little  white  stock  ;  cover  them  over  with  a  buttered  paper, 
and  set  them  in  a  moderate  oven  for  about  half  an 
hour.  When  done,  remove  paper,  dish  up  the  fish  and 
keep  warm,  take  off  the  oily  substance  from  the  pan, 
put  it  on  the  fire  with  two  ladlefuls  of  brown  sauce 
(No.  184),  onedessert-spoonfulof  anchovy  essence,  and  a 
pinch  of  sugar  ;  let  it  boil  for  a  few  minutes,  and  pass 
through  a  sieve ;  garnish  the  mullets  with  large  Spanish 
olives,  stuffed  with  fish  forcemeat  and  mushroom  heads, 
each  of  which  has  a  small  slice  of  truffle  inserted  ;  put 


470  KECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

the  disli  in  the  oven  for  a  few  minutes  to  get 
thoroughly  hot ;  sauce  round  the  fish,  garnish  with  a 
few  sprigs  of  parsley,  and  serve.  The  remainder  of 
the  sauce  can  be  served  separately  in  a  boat. 

344.  Anguille  a  I'Espagnole.  —  One  or  two  eels 
(skinned),  2  tablespoonfuls  flour,  ^  gill  sweet  oil,  12 
sweet  almonds,  1  clove  of  garlic,  3  peppercorns,  a  pinch 
of  saffron,  salt,  1  glass  port  wine,  small  fried  bread 
crontes  for  garnish,  chopped  parsley,  lemon  juice. 

Clean  the  fish  well,  cut  off  the  heads  and  tails, 
divide  into  neat  pieces,  wash  and  dry  thoroughly. 
Put  the  flour  on  a  plate,  mix  with  1  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
and  half-teaspoonful  pepper.  Dip  the  pieces  of  fish 
into  the  flour  and  fry  a  nice  colour  in  hot  oil.  Take 
out,  strain,  and  put  in  a  stewpan,  add  the  garlic 
previously  fried  in  oil,  also  the  saffron  and  peppercorns, 
moisten  with  the  wine,  boil  up,  add  sufficient  fish  stock 
or  water  to  well  cover  the  fish.  Blanch  and  peel  the 
almonds,  shred  coarsely,  bake  a  light  colour  in  the 
oven,  add  these  to  the  stew,  and  let  it  simmer  slowly 
till  tender.  Dish  up  neatly,  sprinkle  with  a  little  chopped 
parsley,  squeeze  over  a  little  lemon  juice,  garnish  with 
croutes,  and  serve. 

345.  Eperlans  a  la  Celestine. — 1  doz.  smelts,  ^  pint 
pancake  batter,  ^  lb.  whiting  forcemeat,  1  truffle, 
6  small  prawns,  1  oz.  butter,  Remoulade  sauce. 
No.  218. 

Prepare  about  1  oz.  very  thin  pancakes,  spread  one 
side  of  half  the  pancakes  with  whiting  forcemeat,  well 
seasoned  and  mixed  with  a  little  cream ;  cover  each  with  a 
pancake  like  a  sandwich,  press  lightly,  and  cut  into 
triangles  or  the  shapes  of  half  hearts.  Split  the  smelts 
longways,  take  out  the  bones,  leaving  the  heads,  but 
remove  the  eyes  from  them.  Mix  the  remaining  force- 
meat with  some  chopped  truffle,  and  fill  the  inside  of 
the  smelts  with  this.  Cover  one  side  of  each  triangle  of 
pancake  with  a  layer  of  forcemeat ;  place  on  them  the 
smelts  rolled  up.  Stand  on  a  buttered  baking- sheet  or 
saute-pan,  cover  with  buttered  paper ;    cook  in  a  slow 


DRESSED    FISH    AND    FISH    ENTREES    (HOT).       471 

oven  for  fifteen  minutes,  dish  up,  garnish  with  prawns 
and  serve  with  Remoulade  sauce. 

346.  Petoncles  a  la  Provencale. — 18  scallops,  ^  pint 
of  white  stock,  2  oz.  of  butter,  J  gill  cream  ;  1  small 
onion,  2  shallots,  1  oz.  flour,  three  yolks  of  eggs,  3  mush- 
rooms. 

Put  the  scallops  in  a  stewpan  with  one  ounce  of 
butter,  and  let  it  cook  for  ten  minutes.  Peel  and  chop 
finely  the  onion  and  shallots,  blanch  them  in  water, 
and  drain.  Put  them  in  a  saucepan  with  an  ounce  of 
butter,  and  cook  until  light  brown ;  stir  in  the  flour, 
stir  a  few  minutes  over  the  fire,  moisten  with  scallop 
liquor  and  the  stock,  let  it  simmer  for  fifteen  mmutes, 
stir  in  the  yolks  of  eggs,  one  at  a  time,  season  with 
pepper,  salt,  and  a  pinch  of  cayenne,  put  in  the  scallops, 
let  them  get  thoroughly  hot,  but  on  no  account  allow 
the  sauce  to  boil ;  mix  in  the  cream  just  before  serving  ; 
dress  the  scallops  neitly  on  a  dish,  pour  the  remaining 
sauce  round  them,  garnish  the  dish  with  fleurons  of 
puff  pastry,  and  serve. 

347.  Petoncles  au  Gratin. — Prepare  and  cook  the 
scallops  as  above  directed,  dress  in  dome  shape  on  a 
buttered  gratin-dish,  sauce  over  thickly  with  the  sauce 
when  cold,  sprinkle  with  breadcrumbs  and  grated 
Parmesan  cheese,  place  a  few  small  bits  of  butter  here 
and  there  on  the  surface,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  for 
ten  minutes. 

Place  the  dish  on  another  dish  with  a  folded  napkin 
and  serve. 

348.  Blanchailles  (Whitebait). — 1  quart  whitebait, 
flour,  salt,  and  pepper,  lard  for  frying,  lemon,  brown 
bread  and  butter. 

Keep  the  whitebait  on  the  ice  until  the  last  moment, 
drain  the  fish  from  the  water  in  a  colander  or  sieve, 
spread  out  a  clean  cloth  on  the  table,  place  the  pan  con- 
taining the  lard  on  the  fire  and  let  it  get  thoroughly 
hot ;  sprinkle  a  good  handful  of  flour  on  the  cloth,  put 
the  fish  on  the  cloth,  flour  well,  fold  and  shake  gently, 
but  sufficiently  well  to  separate  each  fish ;  shake  out 


472  KECHEKCHE    COOKERY. 

into  a  wire  basket  or  wicker  sieve,  and  plunge  into  the 
boiling  lard,  fry  a  pale  golden  colour  (two  minutes  is 
sufficient  to  cook  them),  shake  gently  all  the  time  they 
are  cooking ;  when  done  put  on  to  a  clean  cloth  or 
paper  to  absorb  the  fat,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper 
(a  little  cayenne  if  liked),  dish  up  on  a  hot  dish  with 
folded  napkin,  and  serve  with  slices  of  lemon  and  thinly 
cut  brown  bread  and  butter. 

349.  Quenelles  aux  Huitres  (Oyster  duenelles). — 
18  large  oysters,  ^  gill  bechamel  sauce,  No.  167,  J  lb. 
raw  chicken  or  veal,  2^  oz.  butter,  4  oz.  panade,  yolks 
of  3  eggs,  I  gill  cream,  ^  lemon,  meat  glaze,  salt, 
pepper,  cayenne,  aromatic  seasoning,  mashed  potatoes 
for  border. 

Free  the  meat  froin  skin  and  sinews,  pound  in  a 
mortar  till  smooth",  add  2  yolks  of  eggs,  2  oz.  butter, 
and  the  panade,  season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  -J  tea- 
spoonful  of  aromatic  seasoning ;  work  in  about  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  cream  to  produce  a  nice  quenelle 
mixture,  and  rub  through  a  fine  sieve ;  blanch  and  beard 
the  oysters  (preserve  the  liquor),  butter  eight  small 
quenelle  moulds,  line  well  with  the  quenelle  mixture, 
place  an  oyster  in  the  centre  of  each,  and  fill  up  with 
the  same  ;  put  them  in  a  saute-pan  with  a  little  boiling 
water,  cover  with  a  buttered  paper,  and  cook  in  the 
oven  for  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes.  Shape  a  dozen  small 
quenelles  (like  round  balls),  poach  them  in  a  little  stock, 
put  them  with  the  remainder  of  the  oysters  (previously 
cut  in  disc)  in  a  small  stewpan,  add  ^  oz.  butter  and 
toss  over  the  fire  for  a  few  minutes ;  moisten  with  the 
bechamel  sauce  and  the  oyster  liquor  previously  re- 
duced, mix  a  little  cream  with  a  yolk  of  egg  and  add 
to  the  ragout,  season  with  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice, 
a  pinch  of  salt,  and  a  dust  of  cayenne  pepper ;  have 
ready  a  border  of  mashed  potatoes  on  a  hot  dish, 
unmould  the  quenelles,  arrange  them  neatly  on  the 
border,  put  the  little  quenelles  and  oysters  above 
mentioned  in  the  centre,  sauce  over  with  the  sauce, 
sprinkle  with  a  few  drops  of    liquid   meat   glaze,  and 


DRESSED    FISH    AND    FISH    ENTREES    (HOt).       473 

serve  hot.  It  is  best  to  boil  up  the  bechamel  sauce  and 
oyster  liquor  together,  adding  the  egg- yolk  and  cream, 
and  then  strain  over  the  oysters  and  quenelles ;  when 
once  added  the  ragout  must  not  be  allowed  to  boil 
again,  else  it  will  curdle. 

350.  Fricassee  d'Huitres. — 2  doz.  large  oysters,  2^  oz. 
butter,  J  oz.  flour,  1  gill  of  white  stock,  ^  gill  cream, 
3 yolks  of  eggs,  1  teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice,  salt,  nutmeg, 
white  pepper,  10  small  heart-shaped  slices  of  fried 
bread. 

Open  the  oysters,  preserve  the  liquor,  remove  the 
beards;  put  the  oysters  in  a  stewpan,  one  ounce  of  butter, 
and  a  little  oyster  liquor.  Season  witJi  a  pinch  of  salt,  a 
grate  of  nutmeg,  and  a  pinch  of  pepper.  Stir  over  the  fire 
for  two  minutes  and  strain.  Melt  the  remainder  of  the 
butter  in  a  stewpan,  stir  in  the  flour,  and  cook  a  little 
without  browning  ;  dilute  with  the  gravy  from  the  oysters, 
the  remainder  of  the  oyster  liquor  and  the  stock,  stir  until 
it  boils,  and  simmer  for  about  ten  minutes.  Then  add 
the  cream,  yolks  of  eggs,  and  lemon  juice  ;  stir  over  the 
fire  a  few  seconds  longer,  so  as  to  bind  the  yolks.  Pour  the 
sauce  through  a  fine  strainer  or  tammy  cloth,  put  it  in 
a  saute -pan  with  the  oysters,  heat  thoroughly,  but  on 
no  account  allow  it  to  boil.  Dish  up  on  a  hot  dish, 
garnish  with  croutes  of  fried  bread  and  a  few  sprigs  of 
parsley. 

351.  Cromeskies  aux  Huitres. — 1^  doz.  sauce  oysters, 
3  yolks  of  eggs,  2  dessert-spoonfuls  creme  de  riz,  1  oz. 
butter,  12  thin  slices  of  bacon,  1  tablespoonful  of  cream, 
■k  lemon,  white  pepper,  salt,  and  mace  ;  frying  batter. 
Lard  or  dripping  for  frying,  parsley. 

Blanch  and  beard  the  oysters,  preserve  the  liquor. 
Mince  them  coarsely,  put  the  butter  in  a  stewpan,  when 
melted  add  the  oysters,  season  with  a  little  pepper,  salt, 
and  a  pinch  of  gromid  mace  ;  stir  in  the  creme  de  riz 
(ground  rice) ;  add  the  liquor  of  the  oysters,  the  cream, 
a  teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice,  and  half  a  teaspoonful  of 
chopped  parsley  ;  when  hot,  stir  in  the  yolks  of  eggs,  let 
them  bind,  and  put  the  mixture  on  a  plate  or  dish  to  cool. 


474  RECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

Divide  into  twelve  equal  portions,  shape  into  little  rolls, 
wrap  each  in  a  piece  of  thinly  cut  bacon,  dip  in  batter, 
and  fry  in  hot  fat  a  golden  colour.  Drain,  dish  up,  and 
garnish  with  fried  parsley. 

352.  Petits  Pates  anx  Huitres. — 1  lb.  of  puff  paste, 
2  doz.  oysters,  ^  gill  cream,  3  yolks  of  eggs,  2  oz.  butter, 
^  teaspoonful  lemonjuice,  1  oz.  flour,  parsley,  salt,  pepper, 
fish  broth. 

Prepare  the  puff  or  feuilletage  paste  in  the  usual 
way,  roll  out  about  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  put  it  on 
the  ice  for  five  minutes.  Stamp  out  with  a  3-inch  fancy 
pastry  cutter  eight  or  nine  rounds,  turn  over,  and  place 
them  on  a  baking- sheet,  brush  the  surface  with  beaten 
egg,  trace  an  incision  with  a  smaller  round  cutter,  pre- 
viously dipped  in  hot  water.  Bake  in  hot  oven  for  about 
twenty  minutes,  take  out  the  soft  part  of  the  inside, 
save  the  lids,  and  keep  the  patties  warm  until  required. 
Put  the  oysters,  with  their  liquor,  into  a  saucepan ;  let 
them  come  to  the  boil,  drain  them,  remove  beards,  and 
cut  each  oyster  in  two  (save  the  liquor).  Melt  the 
butter  in  a  small  stewpan,  stir  in  the  flour,  and  cook  a 
little  ;  dilute  with  the  oyster  liquor,  and  sufficient  fish 
stock  to  form  a  sauce ;  let  it  boil  for  about  ten  minutes, 
add  the  yolks  of  eggs  and  the  cream,  stir  well,  but  do 
not  let  it  boil  again  ;  season  to  taste  with  pepper  and  salt, 
add  the  lemon  juice,  and  pass  through  a  fine  sieve  or 
tammy.  Put  the  oysters  with  the  sauce,  and  stir  over 
the  fire  until  the  former  are  thoroughly  warm ;  fill  the 
puff-paste  cases,  put  on  the  covers,  and  dish  up  on  a 
hot  dish,  with  a  folded  napkin ;  garnish  with  parsley 
and  serve. 

353.  Petites  Bouchees  a  la  Suedoise. — Have  ready 
some  puff  paste,  roll  out  about  one-eighth  of  an  inch 
thick ;  stamp  out  some  rounds  to  line  ten  to  twelve 
small  patty  pans,  trim  the  edges  and  fill  them  with 
dried  peas  or  rice  ;  bake  in  a  hot  oven  a  bright  yellow, 
allow  them  to  cool  a  little,  take  out  the  peas,  but  do  not 
take  the  paste  crust  out  of  the  patty-pans.  Prepare  a 
ragout  of  sweetbread,  lobster,  crayfish  tails,  and  broiled 


DKESSED  FISH  AND  FISH  ENTREES  (HOT).   475 

bacon,  all  being  cut  in  dice,  in  equal  proportions 
and  in  quantity  as  may  be  required  to  fill  the  patties ; 
these  are  placed  in  a  stewpan  and  warmed  up  with  two 
spoonfuls  of  Veloute  or  bechamel  sauce.  No.  167  ;  when 
sufficiently  mixed  fill  up  the  patties,  strew  over  the 
surface  of  each  some  grated  Parmesan  cheese  and  a  few 
crumbs  made  from  fresh  bread  ;  put  a  few  small  bits  of 
lobster  butter  on  the  top  of  each;  put  them  in  a  very 
hot  oven,  long  enough  to  brown  ;  take  them  out  of  the 
pans,  dish  up  on  a  folded  napkin,  garnish  with  parsley, 
and  serve. 

354.  Vol-au-Vent  a  la  Chambord. — Two  lbs.  puff 
paste,  6  crayfish  tails,  2  truffles,  6  mushrooms,  18 
small  fish  quenelles,  12  blanched  and  bearded  oysters, 
I  of  a  pint  of  Genoise  sauce.  No.  194. 

Make  the  puff  paste  in  the  usual  way,  give  it  six 
turns,  roll  out  |  of  an  inch  thick,  cut  it  into  the  desired 
size  of  the  vol-au-vent  (round  or  oval),  turn  the  paste 
over  on  to  a  baking-sheet,  brush  the  top  over  with 
beaten  egg,  make  a  circular  incision  (to  form  the  lid) 
about  J  inch  deep  ;  this  is  best  done  with  a  large  round 
cutter  or  a  sharp-pointed  knife.  Put  the  paste  in  a  hot 
oven.  When  sufficiently  baked  remove  the  lid,  scoop 
out  the  soft  part  of  the  inside,  brush  the  inside  of  the 
crust  with  egg,  and  put  back  into  the  oven  for  a  few 
minutes.  Prepare  the  garniture,  and  warm  it  up  in  the 
sauce  ;  let  it  cook  slowly  for  five  minutes.  Put  the 
vol-au-vent  crust  on  a  deep  dish,  fill  with  the  garniture, 
cover  with  the  lid,  garnish  with  crisp  parsley  and 
serve  hot. 

355.  Souffle  de  Homard,  Sauce  Aurora. — Two  hen 
lobsters,  6  eggs,  |  i^int  well-reduced  bechamel  sauce, 
pepper,  salt,  and  nutmeg. 

Split  the  lobster,  remove  the  flesh  from  the  shell, 
and  pound  in  the  mortar  until  very  fine.  Add  the 
sauce  (hot)  by  degrees,  also  the  yolks  of  eggs,  and  the 
seasoning.  Rub  all  through  a  sieve  and  put  in  a  basin, 
beat  up  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth,  mix  all  lightly  to- 
gether, put  it  in  a  well-buttered  mould  or  some  10  or  12 


476  EECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

small  timbale  moulds,  steam  for  an  hour  and  a  quarter. 
Turn  out  on  a  hot  dish,  and  serve  with  Aurora  sauce. 

356.  Aurora  Sauce. — Put  \  pint  bechamel  sauce  in  a 
stew-pan,  add  2  oz.  butter,  a  pinch  of  cayenne,  ^  gill  of 
cream,  1  dessert-spoonful  tarragon  vinegar,  and  1  oz. 
lobster  butter.  Stir  well  over  boiling  water  until  hot, 
but  without  letting  the  sauce  boil. 

357.  Homard  Farci  auGratin. — Procure  a  good-sized 
boiled  lobster  and  cut  it  in  two  (lengthwise).  Remove 
the  meat  and  scrape  the  shells  clean. 

Reserve  the  spawn,  if  there  is  any,  to  make  a  sauce 
(au  beurre  d'ecrevisse).  Break  also  the  claws,  &c.,  and 
remove  the  meat.  Cut  the  nicest  pieces  into  neat  slices, 
and  mince  the  rest  rather  finely.  Have  2  or  3  chopped 
shallots,  fry  them  a  golden  colour  in  1^  oz.  butter  ; 
add  the  lobster  meat,  also  a  good  table  spoonful  of 
bechamel  sauce.  No.  167,  and  one  of  cream  ;  season 
with  salt,  pepper,  and  nutmeg  ;  add  also  1  dessert- 
spoonful of  chopped  parsley,  2  sprigs  of  chopped 
tarragon,  and  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon.  Stir  over  the 
fire  until  thoroughly  hot,  then  add  a  well-beaten  egg, 
and  stir  long  enough  until  the  eggs  begin  to  bind.  Fill 
up  the  shells,  sprinkle  with  fried  breadcrumbs,  put  a 
few  drops  of  melted  butter  over  the  surface,  and  bake 
for  ten  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven.  Dish  up.  Place 
a  handful  of  fried  parsley  in  the  centre,  stick  a  few 
lobster  sprays  here  and  there,  and  serve  with  a  small  boat 
of  Sauce  Danoise,  No.  16 J:,  or  any  other  similar  sauce. 

358.  Coquilles  de  Homard  a  la  Gauloise. — 1  hen 
lobster  (boiled),  1  whiting,  4  oz.  butter,  4  oz.  panade, 
2  whole  eggs  and  1  yolk,  1  teaspoonful  anchovy  paste, 
1  truffle,  salt,  pepper,  nutmeg,  and  cayenne.  Cardinal 
sauce.  No.  162. 

Break  the  lobster  shell,  remove  the  meat,  reserve 
coral  and  spawn,  cut  the  tail  into  neat  scallops  ;  pound 
the  coral  and  spawn  with  a  little  butter,  and  put  m  a 
stewpan  with  the  scallops ;  let  it  get  thoroughly  hot, 
and  put  on  one  side.  Skin  and  bone  the  whiting,  put  the 
fiUets  with  the  remainder  of  the  lobster  meat  in  a  mortar 


DRESSED    FISH    AND    FISH    ENTREES    (HOT).       477 

and  pound  till  smooth  ;  add  the  panade,  remainder  of  the 
butter,  and  eggs  one  by  one,  and  the  anchovy  paste. 
Season  with  a  pinch  of  salt,  half  a  pinch  each  of  cayenne 
pepper  and  nutmeg,  mix  thoroughly,  and  rub  through  a 
fine  sieve.  Butter  some  small  coquille  moulds,  decorate 
them  with  thin  strips  of  truffle,  line  the  moulds  with 
some  of  the  forcemeat,  place  a  nice  scallop  of  lobster 
in  the  centre  of  each,  and  fill  up  with  lobster  force- 
meat. Cook  in  a  saute-pan  half  filled  with  water  for  20 
minutes.  When  cooked  turn  out  on  a  hot  dish,  sauce 
round  with  hot  Cardinal  sauce,  No.  162,  and  serve. 

P.S. — The  lobster  butter  in  which  the  scallops  were 
cooked  should  be  utilised  for  the  sauce. 

359.  Homard  a  rAmericaine. — 1  lobster,  2  shallots, 
1  oz,  butter,  1  gill  white  wine  (ChabHs),  1  gill  tomato 
sauce,  1  gill  Espagnole  sauce,  and  cayenne  pepper. 

Remove  the  tail  from  the  lobster  and  cut  it  into 
scallops  ;  place  them  in  a  circle  on  a  silver  dish,  or  fire- 
proof china  dish.  Fry  the  shallots  (previously  chopped)  in 
the  butter,  add  the  remainder  of  the  lobster  meat,  moisten 
with  wine,  boil  up  and  add  the  two  sauces.  Take  out 
the  meat,  and  dish  up ;  reduce  the  saace,  season  with 
cayenne  pepper  and  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice,  pour 
over  the  dish,  garnish  with  sippets  of  toasted  bread, 
and  serve. 

360.  Raie  a  la  Bourgeoisie. — 2  lbs.  skate,  bouquet 
garni  (No.  3),  1^  oz.  butter,  1  oz.  flour,  1  teaspoonful 
lemon  juice,  1  onion,  j  pint  stock,  1  glass  white  wine, 
pepper  and  salt.  Wash  the  skate  and  cut  in  pieces;  take 
fins  and  skin,  and  put  into  a  pan  with  the  stock  or  water, 
bring  to  the  boil,  and  skim ;  add  the  onion  sliced  and 
bouquet,  simmer  |  hour,  and  strain.  Heat  butter,  stir  the 
flour  in  it,  and  let  brown  ;  add  stock,  lemon  juice,  the 
wine,  and  pieces  of  skate;  season  to  taste,  simmer  about 
^  hour  or  until  skate  is  cooked.  Dish  up,  reduce  sauce 
and  strain  over.  Garnish  with  a  few  croutons  of  bread, 
glazed  over  with  extract  of  meat,  and  serve  hot. 

361.  Raie  au  Beurre  Noir. — Wash,  trim,  and  boil  the 
fish  in  salted  water  sufficient  to  cover,  adding  a  sliced 


478 


RECHERCHE    COOKERY. 


carrot  and  i  onion,  if  liked.  When  done,  take  up,  drain 
well,  and  dish  up.  Heat  1^  oz.  butter  ;  when  of  a  nut- 
brown  colour,  take  off  the  stove,  add  a  teaspoonful  of 
vinegar  or  lemon  juice,  pour  quickly  over  the  skate, 
sprinkle  with  chopped  parsley,  and  serve  very  hot. 

Note. — Fish  stock  and  sauces  of  any  kind  may  be 
greatly  improved  by  the  addition  of  a  small  quantity 
of  meat  glaze  or  some  Liebig  Company's  Extract. 
Half  a  teaspoonful  is  the  proportion  used  for  every  half 
pint  of  sauce  or  weak  stock. 


CHAPTER  VII. 

ENTEEES  AND  SECOND  COURSE  DISHES. 
COLD  SERVICE. 

{See  also  images  144  to  147.) 

362.  Cotelettes  de  Homard  a  I'Aspic. — 1  small  hen 
lobster,  1  ripe  tomato,  2  anchovies,  2  oz.  picked  shrimps, 
1  oz.  butter,  about  1  pint  aspic  jelly,  No.  225, 
seasoning. 

Line  ten  cutlet  moulds  with  aspic  jelly.  Split  the 
lobster,  remove  the  meat,  and  cut  into  slices  about 
J  of  an  inch  thick.  Cut  the  tomato  in  slices,  remove 
skin  and  pips.  Set  a  slice  of  lobster  and  tomato  in 
each  mould.  Wash  and  bone  the  anchovy,  pound  in  a 
mortar  with  the  butter  and  shrimps,  moisten  with 
sufficient  aspic  to  make  the  mixture  set,  and  rub  through 
a  fine  sieve.  Season  to  taste.  Fill  up  the  moulds  with 
this  ;  finish  with  a  thin  layer  of  aspic.  When  set  turn 
out.  Dish  up  neatly  on  a  round  dish,  fill  the  centre 
with  the  remainder  of  lobster  meat  and  tomato  cut  into 
dice.  Garnish  with  chopped  aspic  and  parsley.  Keep 
in  a  cool  place  till  required  for  table. 

363.  Mayonnaise  de  Homard.  —  1  large  lobster, 
4  filleted  Gorgona  anchovies,  1  hard-boiled  Qgg,  6  stoned 
olives,  4  pickled  French  gherkins,  a  small  handful  of 
capers,  one  large  or  two  small  lettuces,  a  few  slices  of 
pickled  beetroot,  mayonnaise.  No.  212. 

Cut  the  lobster  lengthways,  take  out  all  the  meat ; 
if  there  is  any  coral  chop  it  fine  and  reserve  to  ornament 
the  surface ;  break  the  claws,  take  out  the  meat  intact  if 
possible,  as  they  will  come  in  for  ornamenting  the  dish. 
Cut  the  remainder  of  the  meat  into  neat  pieces.  Wash 
and  trim  the  lettuce,  tear  the  good  leaves  into  con- 


480  RECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

venient  pieces.  Put  the  cut  lobster  meat  and  salad  into 
a  basin,  add  sufficient  mayonnaise  sauce  to  season, 
mingle  gently,  and  place  in  a  heap  in  the  centre  of  a 
round  dish  ;  shape  it  in  the  form  of  a  dome,  mask  it  with 
very  stiff  mayonnaise  sauce,  surround  it  ^dth  the  pieces 
of  claws,  alternately  with  quarters  of  hard-boiled  egg, 
garnish  systematically  according  to  taste  and  fancy  with 
long  strips  of  fillets  of  anchovy,  capers,  fancifully  cut 
pieces  of  beetroot,  chopped  coral,  stoned  ohves,  slices  of 
gherkins.  Keep  on  the  ice  until  required,  and  serve  as 
cool  as  possible. 

364.  Fleurettes  de  Turbot  a  la  Hollandaise. — ^  lb. 
cooked  turbot  free  from  skin  and  bone,  ^  pint  stiff 
mayonnaise,  No.  212,  ^  pint  aspic  jelly.  No.  225, 1  truffle, 
1  teaspoonful  chopped  parsley  and  herbs,  1  teaspoonful 
anchovy  sauce,  salt  and  pepper. 

Line  some  oval  zephire  or  dariole  moulds  with 
aspic,  decorate  with  strips  of  truffle  to  form  the  shape 
of  a  rosette.  Mix  the  remainder  of  aspic  with  the 
mayonnaise,  coat  the  moulds  with  a  layer  of  this.  Take 
the  fish,  season  with  salt,  pepper,  chopped  parsley,  and 
a  sprig  of  tarragon  ;  mix  in  anchovy  sauce  and  two 
large  tablespoonfuls  mayonnaise.  Fill  up  three  parts 
full  the  lined  moulds  with  this,  finish  filling  up  with 
the  remainder  of  mayonnaise.  Put  the  moulds  on  the 
ice  to  set.  Turn  out,  dress  on  a  bed  of  salad  or  little 
blocks  of  aspic.     Serve  cold. 

365.  Darne  de  Saumon  a  la  Ravigote. — About  2J  lb. 
middle  cut  of  salmon,  1  onion,  1  carrot,  a  small  bunch 
of  parsley,  1  gill  French  wine  vinegar,  Eavigote  butter. 
No.  78,  aspic  jelly.  No.  225,  1  oz.  fresh  butter,  2  hard- 
boiled  eggs,  ^  iDint  cooked  peas,  1  truffle,  and  some  French 
gherkins  for  garnish,  peppercorns,  salt. 

Wipe  the  fish,  salt  it  well,  and  put  it  in  a  fish-kettle 
with  sufficient  hot  water  to  cover,  add  the  vinegar, 
peppercorns,  sliced  onion  and  carrot,  and  parsley.  Bring 
it  slowly  to  a  boil,  and  keep  at  the  boiling  point  (not 
boiling)  until  tender.  Let  the  fish  remain  in  the  water 
until  cold,   then  drain  carefully,  place  it  on  a  cloth. 


COLD  ENTREES  AND  SECOND  COURSE  DISHES.     481 

remove  the  skin  and  put  on  a  small  board.  Mask  the 
surface  with  a  layer  of  ravigote  butter,  put  it  on  the 
ice  to  set,  then  cover  with  a  layer  of  half-set  aspic  jelly. 
Carefully  place  the  fish  on  an  oval  dish,  decorate  the 
sides  with  ravigote  butter  and  fresh  butter  ;  this  is  best 
effected  by  means  of  a  forcing  bag  or  paper  cornet ; 
ornament  ^^dth  green  peas  and  fanciful  cut  slices  of 
gherkins  and  truffles.  If  you  have  any  lobster  coral 
handy  use  it  also  in  the  garnish.  Fill  the  centre  of  the 
dish  with  a  little  green  salad  or  a  macedoine  of 
cooked  vegetables.  Cut  the  eggs  into  quarters  and 
garnish  the  sides  with  them,  alternately  with  little 
heaps  of  green  peas  and  chopped  aspic  jelly.  Serve 
with  a  boat  of  Tartare  sauce. 

366.  Dariole  de  Saumon  a  la  Moscovienne. — About 
1^  lb.  of  cooked  salmon,  18  oysters,  3  large  truffles, 
1  hard-boiled  egg,  1  oz.  anchovy  paste,  a  teaspoonful  of 
tarragon  vinegar,  ^  gill  cream,  about  a  pint  of  aspic 
jelly,  No.  225,  6  filleted  anchovies,  a  few  slices  of 
cucumber,  a  pinch  of  cayenne,  salt,  pepper,  and  grated 
nutmeg. 

Flake  the  salmon,  line  a  medium- sized  dariole 
mould  with  aspic  jelly,  ornament  with  a  few  slices  of 
truffles,  some  nice  flakes  of  salmon,  and  a  few  cooked 
and  bearded  oysters.  Set  the  garnish  well  with  a  little 
aspic  and  put  to  cool.  Pound  the  remainder  of  the  fish 
in  a  mortar  together  with  six  cooked  oysters,  the  hard- 
boiled  egg,  and  the  anchovy  paste.  Season  with  a  pinch 
of  cayenne  pepper,  salt,  and  a  little  grated  nutmeg. 
Eub  through  a  fine  sieve,  add  the  tarragon  vinegar,  the 
cream,  and  about  half  a  pint  of  aspic  jelly,  mix  well, 
and  fill  the  mould  with  this  mixture  ;  put  the  anchovy 
fillets,  a  few  slices  of  truffles,  and  a  few  bearded  oysters 
between  the  farce  in  filling.  Should  the  mixture  not 
quite  fill  the  mould,  fill  up  with  aspic  jelly,  and  put 
it  on  the  ice  until  required.  Immerse  the  mould  in  tepid 
water,  turn  out  on  a  round  dish,  garnish  round  the 
sides  with  chopped  aspic  and  a  few  fancifully  cut  slices 
of  cucumber. 


482  EECHEECHE    COOKERY. 

367.  Petits  Souffles  de  Saumon  a  I'lndienne. — J  lb. 
cooked  salmon,  1  teaspoonful  of  curry  powder,  f  tea- 
spoonful  curry  paste,  2  oz.  butter,  2  small  tomatoes,  2 
small  onions,  |  pint  fish  stock,  1|  oz.  anchovy  paste, 
chutney,  |  tea-spoonful  aromatic  seasoning,  i  oz.  gela- 
tine, ^  gill  cream,  cochineal,  10  to  12  small  souffle 
cases. 

Melt  the  butter  in  a  small  saute -pan,  and  fry  in  it 
the  onions,  previously  peeled  and  sliced ;  when  the 
onions  are  slightly  coloured,  add  the  curry  powder  and 
cook  for  a  few  seconds,  then  add  the  sliced  tomatoes, 
curry  paste,  anchovy  paste,  and  seasoning.  Moisten 
with  the  fish  stock  and  let  simmer  for  ten  minutes. 
Now  put  in  the  fish,  finely  minced,  and  the  chutney, 
dissolve  the  gelatine  with  a  httle  water,  add  it  to  the 
mixture  and  rub  through  a  fine  sieve,  put  in  a  few  drops 
of  cochineal  to  give  it  a  pinkish  tint  if  desired.  Whip 
up  the  cream  and  mix  with  the  puree  when  cool. 
Fasten  a  paper  band  about  an  inch  broad  round  each 
souffle  case,  fill  up  with  the  preparation,  and  stand  them 
in  a  tin  on  the  ice  until  required  ;  then  remove  the 
paper  bands,  put  some  previously  prepared  anchovy 
butter  in  a  paper  cornet,  ornament  the  tops  to  taste, 
dish  up,  garnish  with  fresh  parsley,  and  serve.  A  few 
drops  of  lemon  juice  is  an  improvement  with  this 
mixture,  and  when  desired  stiffer,  a  little  dissolved  aspic 
jelly  may  be  added  before  filling  the  cases. 

368.  Truite  Saumonee  a  la  Rothschild  en  Chaud- 
froid. — Procure  1  large,  or  2  medium-sized  salmon-trout, 
about  5  lb.  in  weight,  wash  well;  make  an  opening  for 
filling  ;  prepare  a  stuffing  with  4  oz.  of  fresh  bread- 
crumbs, 1  tablespoonful  of  chopped  onions,  3  yolks  of 
eggs,  ^  lb.  of  whiting  forcemeat.  No.  228,  salt,  pepper, 
1  oz.  of  fresh  butter,  and  a  tablespoonful  of  coarsely 
chopped  truffles  ;  fill  the  fish,  sew  up  the  opening,  put  in 
an  oval  braisoire  or  baking  dish  well  buttered,  with  a 
gill  of  stock  and  2  glasses  of  white  wine ;  cover  with 
buttered  paper,  and  cook  gently  in  the  oven,  basting  it 
from  time  to  time.     When  done,  dish  up,  and  allow  it 


COLD  ENTREES  AND  SECOND  COURSE  DISHES.     483 

to  cool,  then  add  a  pint  of  Madere  sauce  to  the  remain- 
ing stock,  reduce  well,  mix  with  a  gill  of  stiff  aspic  jelly, 
and  strain  the  sauce.  Kemove  carefully  the  skin  off  the 
fish  ;  mask  over  with  the  sauce  when  the  latter  is  nearly 
set ;  ornament  with  pieces  of  truffle,  aspic  jelly,  slices 
of  cucumber  and  lemon  and  parsley.  Serve  remainder 
of  sauce  diluted  with  mayonnaise  with  the  fish. 

369.  Filets  de  Sole  en  Aspic. — 2  soles,  1  lobster, 
1|-  oz.  butter,  1  oz.  flour,  J  gill  cream,  ^  gill  stock, 
chopped  parsley,  2  truffles,  1  quart  aspic  jelly.  No.  225, 
lemon  juice. 

Skin  the  soles  and  remove  the  fillets,  chop  the 
lobster  meat  until  fine,  melt  the  butter,  stir  in  the 
flour  ;  when  cooked  add  the  lobster,  moisten  with  cream 
and  stock,  season  with  salt,  pepper,  a  pinch  of  cayenne, 
a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice,  and  a  teaspoonful  of 
chopped  parsley  ;  mix  thoroughly,  and  put  on  a  plate 
to  cool.  Spread  one  side  of  the  fillets  with  this  mixture, 
roll  up  each  fillet,  tie  with  string,  place  on  a  buttered 
baking-sheet,  cover  with  buttered  paper,  bake  in  a  mode- 
rate oven  for  about  ten  minutes.  Line  a  plain  border 
mould  with  aspic  jelly,  decorate  with  fanciful  cut  slices 
of  truffles,  pour  over  another  layer  of  aspic,  set  the 
fillets  when  cold,  whole  or  cut  in  halves,  fill  up  with 
aspic  and  put  on  the  ice  to  set.  Serve  with  a  nice  salad 
in  centre. 

370.  Turban  de  Filets  de  Sole  a  la  Montpellier. — 
Line  a  border  mould  with  a  thin  layer  of  aspic  jelly; 
when  set,  decorate  the  sides  with  truffles  and  hard- 
boiled  white  of  egg,  then  mask  with  a  layer  of  "  Beurre 
Montpellier,"  prepared  as  follows  :  Pound  in  a  mortar 
1  hard-boiled  egg,  1  peeled  shallot,  1  dessert-spoonful 
of  chopped  parsley,  1  teaspoonful  each  of  tarragon, 
chervil,  and  fennel  leaves,  3  boned  Gorgona  anchovies, 
1  oz.  of  fresh  butter,  and  a  tablespoonful  of  cooked 
spinach.  When  well  pounded  add  a  dessert-spoonful  of 
cream,  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  rub  through  a 
fine  wire  sieve,  dilute  with  about  |  a  gill  of  aspic  jelly, 
and  mask  the  mould  as  directed.  Pound  |  lb.  of  cooked- 
Si 


484  RECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

whiting  freed  from  bones,  add  1  oz.  of  anchovy  paste, 
J  a  teaspoonful  of  essence  of  anchovy  or  a  table- 
spoonful  of  white  sauce,  the  yolks  of  2  hard-boiled  eggs, 
and  a  tablespoonful  of  cream ;  when  smooth  rub 
through  a  fine  sieve,  mix  with  about  |  pint  of  liquid 
aspic  jelly,  season  with  a  dust  of  cayenne  pepper  and 
salt.  Take  the  fillets  of  a  large  sole,  cut  each  in  two, 
flatten  a  little  with  a  cutlet-bat,  fold  in  two,  trim  the 
sides,  put  them  in  a  buttered  saute-pan,  season  with 
pepper  and  salt,  moisten  with  a  glass  of  white  wine,  and 
cook  in  a  slow^  oven  until  tender.  When  done  take 
them  out  and  put  to  cool.  Line  the  mould  again  with 
the  whiting  puree,  set  the  fillets  of  sole,  after  being  well 
drained,  in  a  row  in  the  border,  fill  up  vnth.  the 
remainder  of  the  whiting  puree,  and  put  on  the  ice  to 
set.  Immerse  the  mould  in  tepid  water,  turn  out  on  a 
round  entree  dish,  place  a  suitable  wax  or  "  suif  "  figure 
in  the  centre,  surround  with  a  bed  of  salad,  lettuce, 
endive,  cucumber,  &c. 

371.  Filets  de  Truite  a  la  Mayonnaise. — 1  large  or 
2  small  trout,  |  pint  mayonnaise,  No.  212,  |  pint 
aspic,  a  few  French  gherkins,  frying  fat,  or  clarified 
butter. 

Trim  and  wipe  the  fish,  brush  over  w^ith  milk,  and 
dip  in  flour.  Have  ready  some  hot  fat  or  clarified 
butter,  and  fry  a  golden  colour.  When  cold  place  the 
soles  on  a  gridiron  for  a  few  seconds,  take  off  the  crust 
and  remove  the  fillets,  cut  them  into  neat  pieces  about 
an  inch  long.  Line  a  border  mould  with  aspic  jelly, 
decorate  the  bottom  with  neatly-cut  slices  of  gherkins, 
mix  the  mayonnaise  sauce  with  sufficient  aspic  jelly  to 
make  it  set;  put  a  layer  of  this  sauce  in  the  mould,  range 
in  neatly  the  pieces  of  fillets,  coating  each  piece  in  the 
liquid  mayonnaise  before  setting ;  fill  up  the  mould  with 
the  latter,  so  as  to  well  cover  the  fish,  set  on  the  ice  to 
cool;  when  set  immerse  in  tepid  water,  turn  out  on  a 
dish,  and  garnish  the  centre  with  dressed  salad. 

372.  Chaiidfroid  de  Filets  de  Sole  a  la  Capucine. — 
1  large  sole,  ^  small  lobster,  S  prawns,  1  truffle,  |  gill 


COLD  ENTREES  AND  SECOND  COURSE  DISHES,     485 

mayonnaise  sauce,  1  teaspoonful  anchovy  essence,  |  pint 
aspic.  No.  225,  little  white  sauce,  1  gill  cream,  2  sheets 
French  gelatine,  a  few  drops  of  liquid  carmine,  pepper 
and  salt,  1  oz.  butter,  J  lemon. 

Remove  all  the  meat  from  the  lobster,  chop  finely, 
and  pound  in  a  mortar ;  add  the  anchovy  essence  and 
sufficient  white  sauce  to  form  a  smooth  paste ;  season 
to  taste.  Fillet  the  sole,  flatten  the  fillets,  and  spread 
the  above  farce  on  one  side  of  each  ;  roll  up  or  fold  in 
two,  place  them  on  a  well-buttered  baking- sheet  or 
saute-pan,  season  with  a  little  pepper  and  salt  and  a 
little  lemon  juice,  cover  with  a  buttered  paper,  and  cook 
in  a  moderate  oven  for  about  ten  minutes.  When  done 
take  up  and  set  aside  to  cool.  Mask  the  inside  of  a 
border  or  large  dariole  mould  with  a  thin  layer  of  aspic 
jelly,  decorate  the  sides  artistically  with  picked  prawns 
and  fancifully  cut  slices  of  truffle,  and  a  few  leaves  of 
tarrae^on  and  chervil.  Stand  the  mould  on  the  ice,  dis- 
solve  the  gelatine  in  the  remainder  of  aspic,  stir  when 
cooling  into  the  mayonnaise  ;  add  the  cream  and  a  few 
drops  of  carmine  to  give  it  a  nice  pink  colour,  season 
with  a  pinch  of  sugar,  a  little  salt  and  pepper,  and  coat 
the  inside  of  the  mould.  Cut  the  fillets  into  neat  slices 
and  set  these  into  the  mould  with  alternate  layers  of 
sauce.  Add  a  little  more  aspic  to  the  sauce  if  needed, 
and  fill  up  the  mould  with  this.  Allow  it  to  stand  on 
the  ice  until  quite  firm.  Immerse  in  tepid  water,  turn 
out  on  a  round  entree  dish,  and  serve.  If  a  border 
mould  is  used,  a  little  dressed  salad  should  be  served  in 
the  centre. 

373.  Filets  de  Soles  en  Fers  a  Cheval. — 1  large  or  2 
small  soles,  ^  pint  picked  shrimps,  1  teaspoonful 
anchovy  paste,  1  teaspoonful  chopped  parsley,  ^  pint 
bechamel  sauce.  No.  167,  about  a  pint  of  aspic  jelly. 
No.  225,  h  lemon,  2  truffles,  pepper  and  salt,  1  oz.  of 
butter,  ^  gill  white  wine,  8  horseshoe-shape  moulds. 

Remove  the  fillets  from  the  soles,  trim  them  nicely. 
Chop  the  shrimps  finely,  put  them  in  a  saucepan  on  the 
fire  with  ^  oz.  butter ;  when  warm,  add  the  anchovy 


486  RECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

paste  and  parsley ;  moisten  with  a  few  drops  of 
bechamel  sauce,  put  on  a  plate  and  let  cool.  Spread 
one  side  of  the  fillets  with  this  mixture,  roll  up  the  fillets, 
shape  them  well  and  tie  up  with  some  cotton,  place 
them  in  a  buttered  saute-pan,  sprinkle  over  with  a  few 
drops  of  lemon  juice  and  the  wine,  season  with  pepper 
and  salt,  cover  with  a  buttered  paper,  and  cook  slowly  in 
the  oven  for  about  fifteen  minutes.  Set  them  on  a  baking- 
sheet  and  let  them  get  quite  cold.  Put  the  bechamel 
sauce  with  about  a  gill  of  aspic  in  the  saute-pan  con- 
taining the  fish  liquor,  stir  over  the  fire  and  reduce 
a  little,  and  strain  through  a  tammy,  Trim  the  fillets 
neatly,  and  cut  them  in  twos  cross  ways.  Mask  the 
moulds  with  a  coatmg  of  aspic  jelly.  Ornament  the 
bottoms  with  small  slices  of  truffles  to  represent  the 
nails,  &c.  Cover  with  a  layer  of  the  prepared  chaud- 
froid  sauce  ;  when  nearly  set  put  in  each  mould  half  a 
fillet ;  cover  well  with  chaudfroid  sauce  ;  set  this  again, 
and  fill  up  with  more  sauce,  finishing  with  a  thin  coating 
of  aspic.  Put  them  on  the  ice  till  set.  Turn  out  on  a 
dish,  place  them  in  border  shape,  put  a  little  salad 
in  the  centre  and  garnish  with  fancifully-cut  pieces 
of  aspic  and  parsley. 

374.  Cotelettes  d'Agneau  a  la  Danzig. — Best  end  of 
a  neck  of  lamb,  2  oz.  butter,  1  trufiie,  hard-boiled 
white  of  eggy  1  oz.  tongue,  1  tin  foie  gras,  ^  pint 
white  chaudfroid  sauce,  seasoning,  2  handfuls  cooked 
peas,  1^  gill  aspic  jelly,  No.  225,  2  tomatoes,  mayon- 
naise sauce,  No.  212,  1  tablespoonful  cream.  Season- 
ing, vegetable  macedoine. 

Trim  and  pare  the  neck  neatly,  cut  it  into  small 
cutlets,  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  boil  in  a  saute- 
pan  with  butter ;  when  done,  put  under  press  until  cold. 
Pound  the  foie  gras  in  a  mortar,  add  the  cream  and  a 
little  white  sauce,  moisten  with  sufficient  aspic  to  make 
it  set ;  then  rub  through  a  fine  sieve  and  mix  with  a 
little  finely-chopped  truffle.  Trim  the  cutlets,  cover 
them  completely  with  the  farce  just  prepared.  Allow 
the  farce  to  set,  then  mask  well  with  chaudfroid  sauce 


COLD  ENTBEES  AND  SECOND  COURSE  DISHES.     487 

previously  mixed  with  enough  green  pea  puree  to  give  it 
a  greenish  tint  (a  little  spinach  greening  may  be  added 
if  necessary).  Ornament  one  side  of  each  cutlet  with 
some  fancifully-cut  pieces  of  truffle  and  hard-boiled 
white  of  egg,  the  garnish  to  be  set  with  aspic  jelly  ;  when 
set,  dip  each  cutlet  in  half-set  aspic.  Have  ready  a 
small  border  mould  filled  with  a  macedoine  of  vegetables 
neatly  set  in  aspic ;  dish  the  cutlets  on  the  border. 
Prepare  a  salad  seasoned  with  mayonnaise  composed  of 
tomatoes,  green  peas,  and  macedoine  of  vegetables  ;  fill 
the  centre  with  this  and  serve. 

375.  Chaudfroid  de  Cotelettes  d'Agneau. — 1  best 
end  of  neck  of  lamb,  J  carrot,  ^  turnip,  1  onion,  1  small 
bunch  of  herbs,  No.  3,  ^-  pint  stock,  1  glass  sherry,  -^ 
pint  aspic,  4  leaves  French  gelatine,  ^  gill  cream,  1  gill 
Veloute  or  bechamel  sauce.  No.  167,  ^  gill  tomato 
puree,  salt,  pepper,  salad  for  centre. 

Trim  and  pare  the  neck  the  same  as  for  cutlets, 
place  it  in  a  braising-pan  on  a  bed  of  sliced  carrot, 
turnip,  and  onion,  and  herbs.  Season  with  pepper  and 
salt,  moisten  with  stock  and  half  glass  sherry.  Cook  in 
a  quick  oven  at  first  and  finish  in  a  cooler  oven  ;  baste 
occasionally.  When  done,  take  up  and  put  in  a  cool 
place.  Cut  the  cooked  neck  into  cutlets,  trim  and  pare 
neatly  and  coat  with  the  following  sauce :  Melt  the 
gelatine  and  add  to  the  white  sauce  when  the  latter  is 
hot ;  add  rather  more  than  half  the  aspic  ;  divide  this  in 
two  lots,  mixing  one  lot  with  tomato  puree  and  the  other 
with  the  cream  ;  season  to  taste,  and  pass  both  separately 
through  a  tammy  cloth.  Coat  half  the  cutlets  with 
the  white  sauce  and  the  others  with  the  red  sauce. 
Dish  up  the  cutlets  when  set  {e7i  couro7ine) ;  fill  up  the 
centre  of  dish  with  dressed  salad. 

375a.  Cotelettes  d'Agneau  a  la  Moscovienne. — 1 
neck  of  lamb,  1  quart  aspic,  No.  225,  2  tablespoonfuls 
chopped  green  mint,  1  pt.  macedoine  of  vegetables,  1  gill 
of  stiff  Tartare  sauce,  No.  213,  1  hard-boiled  eggf  2 
slices  of  tongue,  1  large  truffle,  seasoning. 

Trim  the  best  end  of  the  neck  of  Iamb  ;   season  and 


488  RECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

braise  same  in  the  usual  manner.  \Yhen  cold,  trim 
neatly  and  cut  into  cutlets.  Dissolve  a  pint  of  aspic, 
add  a  pinch  of  sugar,  and  pour  into  a  saute -pan.  When 
partly  set  mix  in  the  chopped  mint.  Range  the  cutlets 
in  the  pan  in  a  layer  about  half  an  inch  apart  from  each 
other.  Allow  to  set,  and  cover  with  the  remainder  of 
the  aspic  jelly.  Set  on  the  ice.  Mask  a  border  mould 
with  aspic,  decorate  sides  with  fancifully -cut  slices  of 
truffles  and  tongue,  cooked  peas,  beans,  and  hard-boiled 
white  of  egg.  Mix  the  macedoine  of  vegetables  with 
sufficient  liquid  aspic  to  make  it  set  when  cold.  Season 
with  Tartare  sauce,  add  any  pieces  of  truffle,  tongue,  and 
hard-boiled  egg  which  may  be  left  over.  After  coating 
the  border  mould  with  a  second  layer  of  aspic,  and  when 
this  is  thoroughly  set,  partly  fill  the  cavity  with  the 
di'essed  macedoine,  and  finish  up  with  a  layer  of  aspic. 
Turn  out  on  a  round  dish  when  quite  set,  cut  or  stamp 
out  the  cutlets  ;  dish  them  up  en  couronne  on  the  aspic 
border.  Heap  up  the  remainder  of  dressed  macedoine 
in  the  centre ;  finish  with  a  few  leaves  of  lettuce  or 
endive,  and  serve. 

376.  Cotelettes  de  Mouton  a  la  Vallorbes.— 3  lbs. 
best  end  neck  of  mutton,  \  lb.  liver  farce.  No.  234, 
8  leaves  French  gelatine,  1  gill  aspic  jelly,  No.  225, 
^  pint  tomato  sauce.  No.  202,  i  pint  bechamel  sauce. 
No.  167,  salt,  pepper,  and  nutmeg ;  salad  of  shredded 
celery  and  truffles  mingled  with  Tartare  sauce,  No.  213, 
for  the  centre. 

Trim  the  neck  neatly,  cut  off  the  bone  ends  ;  tie  up, 
and  braise  in  the  usual  way ;  when  done  put  to  cool. 
Prepare  the  liver  farce  as  described  in  No.  234  ;  cut  the 
meat  into  cutlets,  trim  them,  season  v>'ith  pepper  and 
salt,  and  cover  one  side  with  a  thin  layer  of  hver  farce. 
Dissolve  the  gelatine  and  incorporate  with  the  sauces, 
thus  allowing  four  leaves  for  the  tomato  sauce  and  four 
leaves  for  the  bechamel  sauce.  When  sufficiently  cool, 
coat  the  covered  sides  of  the  cutlets  alternately  with 
white  sauce  and  tomato  sauce.  Place  the  cutlets,  after 
being  well  masked,  on  to  a  wire  tray,  and  keep  on  the 


COLD  ENTREES  AND  SECOND  COURSE  DISHES.  489 

ice  until  quite  set ;  then  mask  with  a  thin  layer  of  aspic. 
Dish  up  in  a  circle  on  a  thin  border  of  mashed  potatoes 
mixed  with  an  equal  quantity  of  mashed  green  peas ; 
put  the  dressed  salad  in  the  centre  of  the  dish  ;  place 
paper  ruffles  on  the  cutlet  bones,  garnish  with  chopped 
aspic  jelly,  and  serve. 

377.  Roulade  a  la  Norvegienue. — 1  small  breast  of 
veal,  1  lb.  lean  beef,  ^  lb.  bacon  (streaky),  6  oz.  soft 
bread  (Vienna  or  rolls)  soaked  in  milk,  |  oz.  truffle 
peelings,  1  egg,  1  teaspoonful  aromatic  spice,  1  dessert- 
spoonful chopped  parsley  and  herbs,  1  gill  stock,  salt, 
brown  chaudfroid  sauce,  No.  221  or  223,  meat  glaze, 
aspic  jelly  for  garnish. 

Bone  the  breast  of  veal,  trim,  pare,  and  flatten. 
Chop  the  beef  and  bacon  rather  finely,  and  put  both  in 
a  basin  with  the  bread  well  squeezed  out ;  spice,  truffles, 
parsley,  and  sufficient  salt  to  taste.  Mix  well,  moisten 
with  the  stock  and  egg.  Lay  the  breast,  boned  side  up, 
flat  on  a  board,  season  with  salt  and  pepper  ;  spread 
the  above  preparation  on  it,  roll  up,  tie  in  a  pudding- 
cloth,  boil  in  the  stock-pot  or  salted  water  for  2J  to  3 
hours.  Take  up,  press  lightly  till  cold.  Pare  neatly, 
coat  well  with  brown  chaudfroid  sauce,  well  blended 
with  meat  glaze.  Trim  when  set,  dish  up  and  garnish 
with  aspic. 

378.  Supreme  de  Veau  a  1' Aspic. — About  2|  lbs. 
cushion  of  veal,  13  oz.  butter,  1  glass  of  sherry,  1  pint 
chaudfroid  sauce  (white.  No.  222),  about  4  oz.  Ravigote 
butter,  No.  78,  8  thin  slices  of  truffles,  2  round  socles 
of  rice,  2  slices  of  fat  bacon,  aspic  jelly  for  garnish,  salt, 
pepper,  and  nutmeg,  a  small  wax  figure  for  centre. 

Trim  the  meat,  remove  the  skin  and  sinews,  cut  into 
eight  heart-shaped  slices  of  even  size.  Cut  the  bacon 
into  small  strips  about  an  inch  long  and  lard  the  fillets. 
Place  them  in  a  well-buttered  saute-pan,  season  with 
salt,  pepper,  and  grated  nutmeg,  moisten  with  the 
sherry,  cover  with  a  buttered  paper,  and  cook  in  the 
oven  for  20  minutes.  Drain  the  fillets,  and  when  cold 
mask  them  well  with  white  chaudfroid  sauce  ;  put  them 


490  RECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

on  a  wire  tray  to  set.  Have  ready  some  cooked  rice, 
form  a  round  shape  about  five  inches  in  diameter  and 
1^  inches  high  ;  also  a  smaller  round  about  two  inches 
in  diameter  and  two  inches  high ;  press  both  well  and 
place  on  the  ice  to  set.  Place  the  larger  round  on  a 
dish,  cover  with  Ravigote  butter,  put  the  smaller 
round  on  the  top  of  the  large  socle,  cover  also  with 
butter,  and  ornament  the  sides  according  to  fancy. 
Coat  the  fillets  wdth  half-set  aspic  jelly,  and  when  set 
dish  them  in  a  circle  on  the  socle  of  rice  ;  place  a  slice 
of  truffle  between  each  fillet.  Place  a  w^ax  figure,  if 
possible  in  the  shape  of  a  small  vase,  on  top  ;  fill  with 
chopped  aspic,  and  garnish  round  the  dish  with  diamond 
shapes  of  set  aspic  jelly. 

Note. — Fillets  of  chicken,  pigeons,  or  pheasant  can 
be  prepared  in  the  same  way. 

379.  Poulet  en  Belle-Vue. — 2  chickens  or  fowls 
(trussed  for  boiling),  1  quart  white  stock,  white  chaud- 
froid  sauce,  No.  222,  aspic  jelly,  No,  225,  3  large 
truffles,  a  few  slices  of  smoked  cooked  tongue. 

Wrap  up  the  fowls  in  buttered  paper,  and  boil  till 
tender  in  richly-flavoured  w^hite  stock.  Take  up, 
remove  the  skin,  and  let  cool.  Reduce  half  the  hquor 
of  fowls,  skim  well,  and  stir  into  the  chaudfroid  sauce  ; 
reduce  again  and  pour  into  a  basin,  stir  the  sauce  on 
the  ice  until  it  commences  to  get  firm,  then  pour 
quickly  over  the  fowls  so  as  to  completely  coat  them. 
Decorate  the  breasts  with  fancifully  cut  slices  of 
truffles  and  tongue  ;  when  thoroughly  set,  mask  over 
wdth  a  coating  of  half -set  aspic  jelly.  Dish  up,  garnish 
round  the  base  with  blocks  of  aspic,  also  some  chopped 
aspic  and  tongue. 

380.  Cremes  de  Volaille  en  Tomates. — A])out  \  lb. 
cooked  chicken  meat,  f  lb.  ripe  tomatoes,  2  oz.  cooked 
ham,  \  oz.  butter,  \  pint  aspic  jelly.  No.  225,  1  gill 
cream,  2  tablespoonfuls  Veloute  sauce,  No.  169,  \ 
dessert-spoonful  meat  glaze,  8  tomato  moulds,  parsley, 
salt,  and  pepper. 

Wipe  the  tomatoes,  remove  the  stems,  cut  into  slices, 


COLD  ENTREES  AND  SECOND  COURSE  DISHES.  491 

and  saute  in  half  an  ounce  of  butter,  season  with  salt 
and  pepper ;  when  done  rub  them  through  a  fine  sieve, 
and  incorporate  three  large  tablespoonfuls  aspic  jelly. 
Eemove  the  skin  and  sinews  from  the  chicken,  put  it  in 
a  mortar,  and  pound  till  smooth  ;  add  the  ham  and 
pound  also,  pass  all  through  a  sieve,  mix  with  it  the 
Veloute  sauce  and  dissolved  meat  glaze  and  about  two 
tablespoonfuls  liquid  aspic,  or,  if  preferred,  substitute 
with  dissolved  gelatine  to  set  the  puree ;  stir  well,  add 
the  seasoning,  beat  up  the  cream  and  mix  with  it.  Line 
each  half  of  the  tomato-moulds  with  aspic  jelly  ;  when 
set,  mask  thickly  with  the  tomato  puree  ;  fill  them  up 
with  the  chicken  puree.  Press  each  set  of  halves 
together  tightly  and  place  them  on  the  ice  to  set. 
Immerse  the  moulds  in  tepid  water,  wipe  with  a  cloth, 
turn  out,  dress  neatly  on  a  dish,  garnish  with  chopped 
aspic  jelly  and  a  few  sprigs  of  fresh  parsley,  and  serve. 

381.  Medallions  de  Volaille  a  I'lmperiale.  —  2 
chickens,  larding  bacon,  4  truffles,  1  white  of  egg,  1  gill 
cream,  a  mirepoix  for  braising,  1  oz.  butter,  |  pint  white 
chaudfroid  sauce.  No.  222,  liquid  aspic  jelly,  and  some 
set  for  garnish,  salt,  pepper,  and  nutmeg,  a  salad  of 
asparagus  points  for  garnish,  8  to  10  rounds  of  cooked 
ox-tongue. 

Eemove  the  skin  from  the  chickens,  raise  the  fillets 
and  wings,  flatten  a  little,  and  make  up  into  8  to 
10  rounds.  Lard  these  carefully  with  larding-bacon. 
Eemove  all  the  meat  from  the  chickens,  free  it  from 
gristle,  and  pound  in  a  mortar  until  very  fine  ;  then  pass 
through  a  wire  sieve,  return  to  the  mortar,  and  work  in 
the  white  of  egg.  Beat  up  the  cream,  mix  with  the 
forcemeat,  add  pepper,  salt,  and  grated  nutmeg  to  taste, 
and  set  on  the  ice  until  required.  Put  the  broth  in  a 
deep  saute-pan  or  braisoire,  spread  over  the  bottom 
thickly,  cover  with  some  mirepoix  consisting  of  carrot, 
turnip,  onion,  bayleaf,  and  herbs,  and  a  few  slices  of 
bacon  ;  range  the  larded  fillets  on  this,  moisten  with 
chicken  stock,  cover  with  a  buttered  paper,  and  braise 
in  the   oven  for  about  thirty  minutes  ;  while  basting 


492  RECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

frequently,  strain  off  the  liquor.  Press  the  fillets 
between  two  baking- sheets.  When  cold  trim  neatly 
into  round  medallions,  cover  one  side  of  each  with  the 
prepared  forcemeat,  put  again  in  a  saute-pan  with  the 
liquor,  cover  with  buttered  paper,  and  poach  in  a  slack 
oven  for  ten  minutes.  Set  to  cool,  mask  with  chaud- 
froid  sauce  ;  when  the  sauce  is  set,  ornament  the  top 
with  fanciful  cut  pieces  of  truffles  to  form  a  crown  or  a 
rosette.  Mask  the  surface  with  half- set  aspic.  Dress 
on  croutes  of  smoked  tongue  on  a  round  dish,  fill  the 
centre  with  asparagus  salad,  garnish  round  with 
diamond  shapes  of  set  aspic,  and  serve. 

382.  Tartines  de  Volaille  en  Surprise.— 1  large 
tender  chicken,  J  lb.  ox-tongue  (cooked),  ^  lb.  chicken 
forcemeat,  No.  231,  1  white  of  egg,  seasoning,  1  gill 
aspic  cream,  No.  227,  1  gill  aspic  jelly,  No.  225,  a 
little  butter. 

Carefully  remove  the  fillets  of  the  chicken,  bat  them 
flat  and  cut  into  neat  squares,  a  little  smaller  than 
sandwich  moulds,  which  will  be  required  for  this  dish. 
Slice  the  tongue,  and  cut  the  slices  to  the  same  shape 
as  the  fillets.  Put  half  the  squares  of  chicken  fillet  on 
a  buttered  baking-tin,  season  with  a  little  pepper  and  a 
pinch  of  cayenne,  moisten  the  top  well  vdth  white  of 
egg,  place  on  to  each  a  slice  of  tongue,  brush  over  with 
white  of  egg,  spread  a  thin  layer  of  forcemeat  (prepared 
from  part  of  the  chicken  trimmings)  on  this,  cover  with 
the  remainder  of  chicken  fillets  previously  dipped  in 
white  of  egg,  cover  with  a  buttered  paper,  and  cook 
in  a  moderate  oven  for  about  twenty  minutes.  When 
done,  place  between  two  boards  and  press  till  cold. 
Mask  as  many  sandwich  moulds  as  there  are  sand- 
wiches with  clear  aspic  ;  when  partly  set,  ornament  with 
a  few  cooked  green  peas  and  some  fanciful  cut  slices  of 
tongue,  coat  the  garnish  with  a  layer  of  partly  set  aspic 
cream,  place  the  sandwiches,  previously  trimmed,  care- 
fully into  the  prepared  mould,  mix  the  remainder  of  the 
ielly  and  cream  together  and  fill  up  the  moulds,  and 
put  on  the  ice  to  set.     Turn  out  on  a  cold  dish,  arrange 


COLD  ENTREES  AND  SECOND  COURSE  DISHES.  493 

them  in  a  row  in  the  centre,  garnish  the  sides  with  a 
little  green  salad,  and  serve. 

383.  Petites  Cremes  de  Volaille  a  I'Ecarlate. — 
i  lb.  cooked  chicken,  freed  from  bone  and  skin,  ^  lb. 
cooked  tongue,  |  gill  Allemande  or  Veloute  sauce, 
No.  168,  If  gill  "aspic,  No.  225,  1  gill  cream,  a  few 
sprigs  of  tarragon  and  chervil,  1  large  ripe  tomato, 
f  oz.  butter,  pepper,  salt,  cayenne. 

Mince  the  chicken  and  tongue,  put  it  in  a  mortar, 
and  pound  till  smooth.  Add  the  sauce,  previously 
mixed,  with  f  gill  aspic,  season  to  taste,  and  rub 
through  a  sieve.  Cut  the  tomato  into  slices,  saute 
them  in  a  little  butter,  and  cook  over  a  quick  fire. 
Rub  through  a  fine  sieve  or  tammy,  and  mix  with  a  gill 
of  aspic.  Line  eight  or  ten  little  fancy  moulds  with 
this.  Whip  the  cream  and  mix  with  the  chicken  puree 
before  it  is  completely  set ;  mix  with  it  two  or  three 
leaves  of  tarragon  and  chervil,  finely  chopped,  fill  the 
moulds  with  this  mixture,  and  put  on  the  ice  to  set. 
Unmould,  dish  up,  garnish  to  taste,  and  serve. 

384.  Darioles  de  Volaille  en  Chaudfroid. — Remove 
the  fillets  of  a  large  fowl,  taking  off  the  skin  and 
sinews ;  broil  them  in  a  saute-pan  with  a  little  fresh 
butter,  let  them  get  cold,  and  cut  them  up  finely. 
Pound  the  chicken  meat  in  a  mortar,  together  with 
about  one-third  its  quantity  of  foie  gras,  add  a  little 
cream  and  the  yolk  of  one  egg,  season  with  some 
aromatic  spice,  and  pound  until  the  whole  is  fine 
enough  to  pass  through  a  fine  sieve.  Butter  well 
six  or  eight  dariole  moulds,  line  them  with  the  farce,, 
place  a  spoonful  of  chicken  and  ham  salpicon  mixed 
with  minced  truffles  in  the  centre,  fill  up  and  cover 
with  the  remainder  of  the  farce,  and  place  them  in  a 
saute-pan  two-thirds  filled  with  boiling  water.  Cover 
with  a  buttered  paper,  and  finish  them  in  the  oven  ; 
they  will  take  from  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes  to  cook. 
When  done,  turn  out  on  a  baking-sheet  and  set  on  the 
ice  to  cool.  Mask  them  with  a  coating  of  butter,  and 
dress  on  a  round  dish  ;  place  one  a  little  larger  in  the 


494  EECHEKCHE    COOKERY. 

centre  and  the  others  round.  Ornament  the  darioles 
with  thin  strips  and  points  of  black  truffles,  and  finish 
with  a  coating  of  aspic  jelly,  No.  225.  Dish  them  on 
the  shapes  of  bread.  Keep  cool  until  required ;  an 
atelet  of  truffles  and  aspic  placed  in  the  centre  will 
improve  the  dish. 

385.  Tomates  a  rAlgerienne.  —  1  cooked  fowl, 
small ;  1^  pint  of  aspic  jelly,  No.  225,  1  gill  Veloute  or 
bechamel  sauce,  No.  167,  1  glass  sherry,  1^  gill 
tomato  puree  (concentrated),  1  gill  cream,  salt,  pepper, 
nutmeg,  pinch  sugar,  ^  oz.  chicken  glaze,  2  leaves  gela- 
tine, 10  tomato-shaped  moulds,  spinach  greening. 

Line  the  tomato  moulds  with  aspic-jelly,  put  the 
tomato  puree  and  1  gill  aspic  in  a  stewpan,  dissolve  the 
French  gelatine  in  the  same,  boil  up,  and  reduce  a  little  ; 
add  a  pinch  of  sugar,  skim,  pass  through  a  fine  sieve, 
and  cool ;  then  line  the  moulds  with  a  layer  of  this  pre- 
paration. Remove  the  flesh  from  the  claicken,  free  it 
from  skin  and  gristle,  pound  in  a  mortar  till  fine.  Boil 
up  together  the  white  sauce,  one  and  a  half  gill  aspic 
and  sherry.  Reduce  to  one-third  part,  add  the  chicken 
glaze,  tammy,  and  mix  with  the  pounded  chicken.  Season 
with  pepper,  salt,  and  a  pinch  of  grated  nutmeg.  Whip 
the  cream,  and  mix  in.  Fill  the  moulds  with  this  pre- 
paration before  it  is  completely  set.  Close  the  two 
halves  of  each  mould  firmly  together  (care  should  be 
taken  that  the  marks  of  each  part  of  the  mould  are 
opposite  one  another).  Place  on  the  ice  long  enough  to 
set.  The  remainder  of  aspic  should  be  tinted  with  a 
little  spinach  greening,  and  poured  into  a  saute-pan  to 
set.  Cut  out  some  leaf  shapes,  place  them  on  a  dish  so 
arranged  as  to  receive  the  tomatoes.  Turn  out  the 
moulds,  dish  up,  chop  some  aspic,  and  decorate. 

386.  Chaudfroid  de  Perdreaux  (Chaudfroid  of 
Partridge). — 2  roast  partridges,  f  pint  brown  chaud- 
froid  sauce,  No.  223,  1  crisp  lettuce,  3  firm  ripe 
tomatoes,  ^  cucumber,  1  hard-boiled  egg,  8  stuffed 
olives,  ^  pint  aspic  jelly,  No.  225,  Mayonnaise  sauce, 
No.  212. 


COLD  ENTREES  AND  SECOND  COURSE  DISHES.     495 

Cut  the  partridge  into  neat  pieces,  free  them  from 
skin,  and  mask  each  piece  completely  with  a  pale-brown 
chaudfroid  sauce  {See  Sauces,  No.  223).  When  set,  run 
over  sufficient  half-set  aspic  to  mask  them.  Prepare  a 
bed  of  mixed  salad  in  the  centre  of  a  dish,  arrange  the 
pieces  of  partridge  neatly  in  a  pile  on  the  salad,  placing 
the  breast  pieces  on  top.  Garnish  with  shces  of  tomato, 
cucumber,  quarters  of  hard-boiled  egg,  stuffed  olives,  and 
chopped  aspic  jelly.  A  bed  of  cooked  rice,  or  a  border 
of  cooked  rice,  may  be  used  as  a  foundation  ;  it  will  im- 
prove the  appearance  of  the  dish  and  facilitate  the 
dressing.  The  rice  should  be  coated  with  chaudfroid 
sauce,  and  masked  with  aspic. 

387.  Chartreuse  de  Faisan  a  la  Balmoral. — ^  lb. 
cold  pheasant  (free  from  skin  and  bone),  6  or  8  small 
chicken  quenelles.  No.  231,  3  large  truffles,  6  preserved 
mushrooms,  3  or  4  cooked  cocks'  combs,  IJ  pint  aspic 
jelly,  No.  225,  seasoning,  1  gill  Espagnole  sauce.  No. 
184,  1  glass  sherry,  ^  oz.  meat  glaze,  1  gill  Veloute  or 
bechamel  sauce.  No.  167,  1  gill  cream,  1  hard-boiled 

egg'  . 

Line  a  charlotte  or  large  timbale  mould  with  aspic. 
Ornament  the  bottom  and  side  with  fanciful  cut  slices  of 
truffles  and  white  of  egg,  fix  the  garniture  with  liquid 
aspic.  Put  the  white  sauce  and  one  gill  of  aspic  in  a 
stewpan,  reduce  to  one-third,  add  the  cream,  reduce 
again,  and  pass  through  a  tammy.  Allow  this  to  cool  a 
little,  then  mask  the  inside  of  the  mould.  Cut  the 
pheasant  meat,  mushrooms,  and  remainder  of  truffles 
into  convenient  slices  or  fillets,  mix  with  a  sauce  com- 
posed of  Espagnole.  Sauce,  sherry,  ^  pint  of  aspic,  and 
meat  glaze  ;  reduce  well,  and  mix  with  meat,  &c. ;  when 
cooling,  season  the  w^hole  to  taste,  and  fill  up  the  mould. 
Stand  on  the  ice  until  perfectly  firm,  immerse  in  tepid 
water,  and  turn  out  on  a  dish  with  folded  napkin  or 
dish-paper.  Garnish  with  chopped  aspic  round  the  base 
of  the  dish,  and  serve. 

388.  Petites  Cremes  de  Faisan.— 6  oz.  cooked 
pheasant  meat,  |  pint  Veloute  or  Allemande  sauce,  No. 


493  RECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

168,  ^  oz.  French  gelatine,  1  gill  cream,  1  gill  aspic. 
No.  225,  1  gherkin,  2  red  chillies,  ^  teaspoonful  chopped 
lemon  rind,  seasoning. 

Mask  the  inside  of  eight  or  ten  little  timbales  or 
dariole  moulds  with  aspic  jelly;  decorate  with  little 
fanciful  cut  pieces  of  gherkin  and  chillies,  put  on  the  ice 
to  set.  Free  the  meat  from  skin  and  sinews,  and  pound 
in  a  mortar  till  smooth.  Heat  up  the  sauce,  soak  the 
gelatine,  and  let  it  dissolve  in  the  sauce  ;  mix  the  sauce 
with  the  pounded  meat,  add  the  lemon  rind,  a  little  salt, 
pepper,  and  grated  nutmeg  to  taste.  Put  through  a 
fine  hair  sieve ;  when  cooled  a  little,  whip  the  cream  and 
add  to  the  mixture.  Fill  up  the  moulds  with  this,  place 
on  the  ice  to  set.  Turn  out  and  dish  up.  Decorate  with 
chopped  aspic  and  serve. 

389.  Mauviettes  a  TAspic.  —  Bone  from  eight  to 
twenty  larks,  fill  them  with  liver  farce.  No.  234,  wrap  up 
each  lark  tightly  in  a  small  piece  of  muslin,  braise  in  a 
rich  stock,  and  put  to  cool.  Line  as  many  small  oblong 
moulds  as  there  are  larks  with  aspic  jelly,  decorate  the 
bottom  and  sides  with  truffles  and  hard-boiled  white  of 
egg,  also  a  few  leaves  of  tarragon  and  chervil.  Allow 
the  decoction  to  set.  Unwrap  the  larks,  put  one  in  each 
mould,  fill  up  the  rest  with  aspic,  and  place  on  the  ice 
to  set.  Unmould,  dish  up,  garnish  with  parsley,  and 
serve. 

390.  Petits  Pains  a  la  Chevalier.— 6  oz.  cooked 
game  (any  kind),  2  oz.  cooked  ham  or  bacon,  2  large 
tablespoonfuls  cream,  1  truffle,  1  hard-boiled  egg-yolk, 
1  tablespoonful  bechamel  sauce,  No.  1G7,  1  gill  aspic 
jelly.  No.  225,  aromatic  seasoning. 

Mask  the  bottom  of  six  or  eight  small  zephire 
moulds  with  aspic,  place  a  star  of  truffle  (thinly  cut)  in 
the  centre,  mix  aspic  (remainder  of)  and  cream  together, 
coat  well  the  inside  of  the  moulds  with  this,  and  stand 
on  the  ice  to  set.  Free  the  game  from  skin  and  sinews, 
cut  the  ham  and  game  into  small  pieces,  pound  in  a 
mortar  till  smooth,  add  sauce  and  the  yolk  of  egg,  season 
with  a  good  pinch  of  aromatic  seasoning,  and  rub  through 


COLD  ENTREES  AND  SECOND  COURSE  DISHES.     497 

a  fine  sieve.  Chop  the  remainder  of  the  truffle  finely,  mix 
with  the  ahove  mixture,  add  the  remainder  of  aspic  and 
cream  whilst  the  latter  is  liquid,  fill  up  the  moulds, 
cover  with  a  layer  of  stiff  aspic,  and  place  on  the  ice. 
When  thoroughly  set,  turn  out,  dish  up,  and  serve. 

391.  Aspic  de  Foie  Gras  a  la  Diplomate. — Pound 
^  lb.  cooked  fowl  freed  from  skin  and  bone,  pass 
through  a  sieve,  and  mix  whilst  hot  with  a  tablespoon- 
ful  of  bechamel  sauce,  No.  167  ;  incorporate  about  one- 
third  part  with  liquid  aspic,  No.  225.  Work  the  whole 
well  together.  In  the  meantime  have  ready  some  ox- 
tongue, hard-boiled  w^hite  of  eggs,  and  black  truffles. 
Place  a  round  or  oval  mould  upon  some  crushed  ice, 
pour  in  about  2  tablespoonfuls  of  clear  aspic  jelly  to 
mask  the  bottom  and  sides  well  as  soon  as  it  has  set. 
Ornament  the  bottom  with  tongue,  white  of  egg,  and 
truffles,  cut  in  leaves,  crescents,  &c.,  so  as  to  form  a  neat 
design.  Mask  the  sides  the  same  as  the  bottom  when 
set.  Ornament  likewise  with  truffles,  tongue,  and  egg- 
white  ;  but  cut  these  so  as  to  form  dice  to  cover  the 
whole  of  the  sides  (mosaic  style).  For  decorating  it  is 
necessary  to  dip  each  piece  of  garniture  in  a  little  liquid 
aspic  jelly,  so  as  to  make  it  adhere  to  the  mould.  As 
soon  as  the  decoration  is  finished  and  well  set,  put  one 
or  two  layers  of  the  prepared  chicken  puree  at  the 
bottom  of  the  mould,  place  an  appropriate- sized  pate 
de  foie  gras,  freed  from  crust  and  fat,  in  the  centre,  and 
fill  up  side  and  top  with  the  remainder  of  the  puree  ;  the 
last  layer  should  be  aspic.  Put  the  mould  on  the  ice 
until  set.  When  ready  for  serving,  dip  the  mould  in 
tepid  water  for  a  few  seconds,  withdraw  it  quickly,  wipe 
round  the  mould  with  a  cloth,  and  turn  it  on  a  dish  with 
folded  napkin  or  on  a  socle  of  rice.  If  there  be  time 
to  prepare  the  latter,  the  dish  will  look  much  more 
attractive. 

392.  Darioles  de  Foie  Gras  a  la  Vatel. — 1  tin  or 
terrine  of  foie  gras  (No.  10  size),  1  hard-boiled  white  of 
egg,  1  truffle,  1  pint  aspic,  No.  225. 

Open  the  tin  or  terrine  of  foie  gras,  remove  all  the 


498  BECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

lard  on  top,  and  turn  out  on  a  plate.  Mask  a  number  of 
small  plain  or  fluted  dariole  moulds  with  aspic  jelly,  and 
decorate  the  bottom  and  sides  with  fancifully- cut  slices 
of  trufile  and  white  of  egg.  Stamp  or  cut  out  some 
convenient  shapes  of  foie  gras,  trim  off  any  particles  of 
fat  or  lard,  and  put  one  in  each  of  the  dariole  moulds  ; 
fill  up  with  half-set  aspic,  and  stand  on  the  ice  until  set. 
Immerse  in  tepid  water,  turn  out  on  a  cloth,  and  dish 
up  on  a  silver  or  glass  dish.  Garnish  with  chopped 
aspic  and  serve. 

393.  Petites  Bombes  a  I'Alsacienne. — 1  tin  or  terrine 
foie  gras  pate,  1  gill  cream,  2  eggs,  1  gill  well-reduced 
Veloute  sauce,  No.  169,  |  gill  chicken  stock,  |  oz. 
gelatine,  2  oz.  cooked  ham  (lean),  1  gill  aspic,  No.  225, 
^  endive,  aromatic  seasoning. 

Separate  the  whites  from  the  yolks  of  eggs,  mix  each 
lot  separately  with  a  tablespoonful  of  cream,  season 
with  a  pinch  of  salt.  Pour  separately  in  a  well-greased 
mould,  cover  with  paper  and  stand  in  a  saute-pan  half- 
filled  with  boilmg  water,  steam  slowly  for  ten  minutes, 
then  draw  the  pan  on  one  side  and  let  stand  till  cold. 
Turn  out  on  a  cloth,  cut  into  slices,  and  stamp  out  into 
fanciful  shapes  suitable  for  garnish.  Open  the  tin  or 
terrine  of  foie  gras,  remove  the  lard  from  the  surface, 
turn  out,  take  out  the  pieces  of  truffle,  wash  them,  and 
cut  into  fanciful  shapes  also  for  garnish.  Cut  the  ham 
in  the  same  manner  for  a  similar  purpose.  Line  six  to 
eight  httle  square  or  oblong-shaped  moulds  with  aspic 
jelly,  garnish  the  bottom  portions  with  the  stamped-out 
shapes  of  truffles,  yolks  and  whites  of  egg,  and  ham,  so 
as  to  form  s}T^innetrical  designs.  Put  the  foie  gras  and 
trimmings  of  ham  into  a  mortar,  pound  until  smooth 
and  rub  through  a  sieve,  return  to  the  mortar  and  work 
in  the  Veloute  sauce  and  the  remainder  of  cream.  Dis- 
solve the  gelatine  in  the  chicken  stock  and  incorporate 
with  the  puree,  add  f  teaspoonful  of  aromatic  seasoning, 
mix  well.  When  nearly  cold  fill  up  the  centre  of  the 
moulds,  and  place  them  on  the  ice  to  set.  Turn  out  on 
a  dish,  surround  with  a  bed  of  endive  salad,  or  any 
other  kind  of  green  salad,  and  serve. 


COLD  ENTREES  AND  SECOND  COURSE  DISHES.  499 

394.  Petits  Souffles  glaces  a  I'Ecarlate. — J  lb.  cooked 
ox-tongue,  1  shallot,  ^  pint  good  brown  sauce,  No.  186, 
1  bouquet  garni,  No.  3,  ^  tomato,  h  oz.  gelatine,  1  gill 
cream,  1  slice  of  truffle,  2  tablespoonfuls  sherry,  -|  gill 
aspic  jelly,  No.  225,  cochineal,  seasoning,  8  small 
souffle  cases. 

Chop  the  shallot  finely,  put  it  in  a  stewpan  with  the 
sherry,  reduce  a  little,  then  add  the  tomato  cut  in  slices, 
the  sauce,  and  bouquet  garni,  cook  together  for  ten 
minutes  or  longer,  and  strain.  Dissolve  the  gelatine, 
strain,  and  add  to  the  above  whilst  hot.  Cut  the  tongue 
into  small  pieces,  pound  in  a  mortar  till  smooth.  Add 
a  little  of  the  sauce  and  the  cream,  mix  well,  and  rub 
through  a  fine  sieve.  Whip  the  brown  preparation  on 
the  ice  or  a  cold  place  until  it  becomes  spongy,  then  add 
the  puree,  season  to  taste,  and  colour  with  a  few  drops 
of  cochineal,  to  give  it  the  desired  tint.  Fill  the  souffle 
cases  previously  fastened  with  small  paper  bands, 
about  ^  inch  above  the  cases  with  the  mixture.  Freeze 
in  a  charged  ice-cave  for  about  an  hour,  garnish  the 
surface  with  fanciful  cuts  of  truffle  or  white  of  egg,  mask 
well  with  a  layer  of  aspic,  return  to  the  ice-cave.  Before 
serving  remove  the  bands,  and  sprinkle  the  sides  with 
panurette. 

395.  Petites  Langues  a  rEspagnole. — |  lb.  cooked 
ox- tongue,  2  oz.  cooked  chicken  or  veal,  f  gillEspagnole 
sauce,  No.  184,  1  glass  sherry,  2  tablespoonfuls  cream, 
J  oz.  French  leaf  gelatine,  a  few  drops  liquid  carmine, 
white  pepper  and  nutmeg,  i  pint  cooked  macedoine  of 
vegetables,  about  ^  pint  aspic  jelly,  |  oz.  meat  glaze. 

Soak  the  gelatine,  boil  up  the  sauce  and  sherry  wine, 
reduce  a  little,  and  strain.  Cut  the  tongue  and  chicken, 
or  veal,  into  small  pieces,  put  in  a  mortar  and  pound  till 
smooth.  Add  the  sauce  and  cream,  mix  thoroughly, 
season  with  pepper  and  a  grate  of  nutmeg,  colour  with 
a  few  drops  of  the  carmine,  and  rub  through  a  sieve.  Put 
the  mixture  into  8  or  10  little  tongue -moulds,  and  set  on 
the  ice.  Mask  a  small  bombe  or  some  mould  with 
aspic,  decorate  the  sides  tastefully  with  little  stars  of 

32 


500  RECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

cooked  carrot,  turnip,  &c.  (macedoine),  season  the  re- 
mainder  of  macedoine  to  taste,  and  mix  with  aspic- 
jelly  ;  put  this  into  the  mould  when  it  begins  to  set, 
and  fill  up  with  aspic.  Turn  out  on  to  a  cold  dish  when 
set.  •  Turn  out  the  little  moulds,  brush  over  with  meat- 
glaze,  previously  mixed  with  a  tablespoonful  of  aspic 
jelly.  Arrange  the  little  tongues  round  the  macedoine, 
points  upwards.  Decorate  neatly  with  chopped  aspic 
jelly  and  a  few  small  sprigs  of  parsley  between  and 
around  each  tongue,  and  serve. 

396.  Petites  Croustades  a  la  Milanaise. — |  lb.  puff 
paste,  6  oz.  grated  Parmesan  cheese,  I  pint  aspic  jelly, 
No.  225,  1  gill  cream,  li  gill  tomato  aspic.  No.  226, 
2  oz.  cooked  ham  or  smoked  ham  sausage,  pepper,  salt, 
and  cayenne,  1^  teaspoonful  mixed  mustard. 

Roll  out  the  paste  thinly,  stamp  out  6  or  8  rounds 
with  a  plain  or  fluted  cutter,  2  inches  in  diameter,  place 
these  on  a  baking-sheet,  brush  over  with  water,  sprinkle 
with  Parmesan,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  till  a  golden 
colour;  take  up  and  let  cool.  Melt  the  aspic  jelly;  when 
cooling  add  the  remainder  of  grated  cheese  and  the 
seasoning,  salt,  pepper,  mustard,  and  cayenne,  stir  well, 
and  mix  in  the  cream  pre\dously  whipped.  Also  the 
ham  finely  chopped.  Have  ready  6  or  8  very  small 
plain  dariole  moulds,  coat  the  inside  well  with  a  layer 
of  tomato  aspic,  decorate  with  a  few  tarragon  and 
chervil  leaves  if  liked ;  when  set,  fill  up  the  moulds  with 
the  prepared  cream,  put  on  the  ice  for  at  least  an  hour, 
then  turn  out.  Place  the  cream  on  the  baked  pastry, 
decorate  the  sides  with  whipped  cream,  dish  up,  and 
serve. 

397.  Bordure  de  Lievre  a  la  Bergere. — 1  small  hare, 
J  lb.  fresh  pork,  ^  lb.  bacon,  2  truffles,  2  oz.  butter, 
6  oz.  panade,  No.  9,  3  eggs,  3  shallots,  1  glass  Madeira 
wine,  1  gill  aspic  jelly.  No.  225,  1  hard-boiled  egg, 
seasoning. 

Remove  the  breasts  and  the  fleshy  parts  of  legs  of 
the  hare,  cut  it  into  small  slices,  slice  likewise  the  pork 
and  bacon.     Melt  the  butter  in  a  saute-pan,  add  the 


COLD  ENTREES  AND  SECOND  COURSE  DISHES.    501 

shallots,  finely  chopped,  brown  a  little,  put  in  the  sliced 
meat  (the  liver  of  hare  may  also  be  added  if  liked), 
season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  aromatic  spice,  saute  over 
the  fire  until  of  a  nice  brown,  moisten  with  Madeira 
wine,  and  put  in  a  basin  to  cool.  Then  pound  in  a 
mortar  until  smooth.  Add  the  panade  and  the  eggs  one 
by  one.  Cut  the  truffles  into  slices,  stamp  out  some 
fanciful  shapes  and  keep  for  garnish,  chop  finely  the 
trimmings,  and  mix  with  the  farce.  Rub  the  whole 
through  a  wire  sieve,  fill  up  a  well-buttered  border-mould, 
put  in  a  saute  or  braising-pan  containing  boiling  water, 
to  reach  half  way  up  the  mould.  Cover  with  buttered 
paper  and  cook  in  a  moderately  heated  oven  for  about 
1 J  hour.  When  done,  stand  on  the  ice  till  cool ;  turn 
on  to  a  cold  dish.  Mask  over  carefully  with  half- set 
aspic  jelly,  ornament  the  top  of  the  border  with  truffle 
shapes  and  fancifully  cut  slices  of  hard-boiled  white  of 
egg.  Coat  the  garnish  with  a  little  aspic,  put  a  few 
sprigs  of  fresh  parsley  here  and  there,  and  serve.  The 
remainder  of  the  hare  will  be  found  very  useful  for  hare 
soup,  game  sauce  for  stock,  &c. 


Mannee  of  Jointing  Small  Birds,  such  as 
Pigeons,  Snipe,  Parteidges,  &c. 


CHAPTER  VIII. 

ENTEfiES  (HOT). 
{See  also  pages  148  to  250.) 


VEAL 


Elnuckle 


Leg  (Ouisseau)  - 


Kernel  (Noix 
Fricandeau) 


Tenderloin  and 
Kidney 


Quarter  - 

Breast  (Poitrinel 

Gristle  (Tendron) 
Shoulder  (Epaule) 


Neck  (Collier) 


DU  VEAU. 


Tail  (Queue) 


Saddle  (Selle) 

.Loin  (Longe) 

Hind  Quarter 
Fore  Quarter 

•Best  Neck  (Oarr6) 


Back 


Neck 


ENTREES    (hot).  503 

398.  Cotelettes  de  Veau  a  la  Francaise. — 5  or  6  bones 
of  best  end  of  neck  of  veal,  2  oz.  butter,  1  teaspoonful 
chopped  herbs,  1  teaspoonful  chopped  lemon  rind, 
6  tablespoonfuls  breadcrumbs,  pepper  and  salt,  2  egg- 
yolks,  tomato  sauce,  No.  202. 

Saw  off  the  chine-bone  and  the  upper  part  of  the 
rib-bones  of  the  neck,  thus  leaving  the  rib-bones  about 
3  inches  long.  Divide  into  cutlets,  flatten  with  a 
cutlet-bat,  trim  neatly,  and  season.  Melt  about  ^  oz. 
butter,  beat  up  the  egg-yolks  and  mix  together  on  a 
plate,  add  the  lemon  rind  and  chopped  herbs,  and  mix 
thoroughly  ;  dip  the  cutlets  into  this,  and  then  into  the 
breadcrumbs.  Melt  the  remainder  of  butter  in  a 
saute  or  frying-pan,  and  fry  the  cutlets  a  golden  colour. 
Drain,  dish  up,  put  a  frill  on  each  bone,  and  serve  with 
tomato  or  demi-glace  sauce. 

399.  Escalopes  de  Veau  a  la  Russe. — About  2^  lb. 
knuckle  of  veal,  8  oz.  clarified  butter,  4  oz.  pork,  4  oz. 
beef  marrow,  2  oz.  anchovy  paste,  1  yolk  of  egg,  1  tea- 
spoonful powdered  savoury  herbs,  |  pint  preserved  cepes, 

1  gill  demi-glace  sauce,  salt,  pepper,  breadcrumbs. 

Trim  the  veal,  cut  it  into  eight  even-sized  scallops, 
beat  them  with  a  cutlet-bat,  and  shape  neatly.      Put 

2  oz.  butter  in  a  saute-pan ;  when  hot,  put  in  the 
scallops  and  fry  over  a  quick  fire  a  nice  light-brown 
colour.  As  the  meat  will  afterwards  be  cooked  again, 
the  frying  process  should  be  done  quickly  without 
actually  cooking  the  scallops  or  cutlets.  Place  them 
between  two  boards,  put  a  weight  not  too  heavy  over  the 
top,  and  keep  them  until  cold.  Strain  the  butter,  and 
keep  for  further  use.  Cut  the  pork  and  marrow  into 
small  pieces,  pound  in  a  mortar ;  when  fine,  add  the 
anchovy  paste,  savoury  herbs,  egg-yolk,  and  a  small 
piece  of  butter  about  the  size  of  a  nutmeg.  Pound 
thoroughly  until  smooth,  season  with  pepper  and  salt, 
rub  through  a  fine  sieve,  and  cover  one  side  of  each 
scallop  thickly  with  this  farce.  Put  them  on  a  buttered 
baking-sheet,  cover  over  with  a  few  fried  breadcrumbs, 
sprinkle  with  oiled  butter,  and  place  in  a  hot  oven  for 


504  KECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

about  ten  minutes.  If  preserved  cepes  are  used,  strain 
them  well,  saute  them  in  a  little  butter,  season  with 
salt  and  pepper,  add  the  demi-glace  sauce,  and  cook  for 
ten  minutes.  Dish  up  the  scallops  in  a  circle  on  a  hot 
round  dish,  and  put  the  ragout  of  cepes  in  the  centre. 

400.  Grenadins  de  Veau  a  la  Jardiniere. — Trim  a 
piece  of  cushion  of  veal,  cut  it  into  twelve  slices,  flatten 
them,  trim  and  give  them  the  shape  of  hearts  as  nearly 
as  possible  ;  lard  them  rather  closely  with  strips  of  fat 
bacon.  Next  prepare  a  layer  of  sliced  vegetables  and 
bacon  in  a  buttered  sautoir,  range  the  meat  on  this, 
season  with  salt  and  pepper,  moisten  with  a  glass  of 
white  wine  and  some  white  stock,  cover  with  a  buttered 
paper,  and  set  to  braise  in  the  oven  for  about  an  hour, 
during  which  time  care  should  be  taken  to  baste  from 
time  to  time.  In  the  meantime  have  ready  some  veal 
forcemeat,  and  fill  up  a  flat  border  mould  (well  buttered), 
which  steam  in  a  stewpan  ;  turn  out  on  a  dish  and  keep 
warm.  When  the  grenadins  are  done,  range  them  in 
circular  form  on  the  border  of  forcemeat ;  fill  the  centre 
with  a  preparation  of  jardiniere  of  vegetables,  with  a 
little  demi-glace.  Sauce  over  the  grenadins  with  their 
own  stock  well  reduced.  No.  295. 

401.  Filets  de  Veau  a  la  Colbert.— Cut  about  two 
pounds  of  lean  fillet  of  veal  into  eight  slices,  flatten, 
trim  and  season  with  pepper  and  salt.  Put  two  ounces 
of  butter  and  two  tablespoonfuls  of  sweet  oil  into  a 
saute-pan,  when  hot  place  in  the  fillets,  fry  them  over  a 
quick  fire  on  both  sides,  drain  the  fillets  and  put  them 
on  a  plate.  Pour  off  most  of  the  fat  in  the  saute-pan, 
add  three  finely-chopped  shallots,  fry  a  little,  dilute 
with  a  small  glass  of  sherry  and  rather  more  than  a  gill 
of  Madere  sauce,  boil  for  a  few  minutes,  add  a  pinch  of 
cayenne,  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice,  and  a  teaspoonful 
of  chopped  parsley,  stir  well,  and  work  in  an  ounce  and 
a  half  of  fresh  butter.  Return  the  fillets  and  mix  well 
with  the  same,  but  do  not  let  it  boil  again.  Dish  the 
fillets  in  a  circular  row,  place  a  heart-shaped  slice  of 
fried  bread  between  each  fillet.     Fill  the  centre  with 


ENTEEES    (hot).  505 

small  round  potatoes  (pommes  de  terre  a  la  Parisienne), 
sprinkle  with  a  little  chopped  parsley,  pour  the  remainder 
of  the  sauce  over  the  fillets  and  serve. 

402.  Bonnes  Bouches  de  Veau  a  la  Moderne. — 1  lb. 
mashed  potatoes,  2  oz.  butter,  1  gill  cream,  3  yolks  of 
eggs,  1  truffle,  6  mushrooms,  the  remains  of  cold  veal, 

1  gill  Veloute  sauce.  No.  169,  1  gill  bechamel  sauce, 
No.  167,  salt,  pepper,  and  grated  nutmeg. 

Remove  the  skin  from  the  veal,  cut  it  into  small 
slices  or  mince  coarsely,  put  it  in  a  small  stewpan 
together  with  the  mushrooms  and  the  truffle  finely 
chopped,  and  sufficient  Veloute  sauce  to  moisten ;  add  a 
small  piece  of  butter,  and  stir  over  the  fire  until  hot. 
This  forms  the  salpicon.  Rub  some  cooked  potatoes 
through  a  fine  sieve,  mix  them  with  a  piece  of  butter 
and  a  little  cream.  Season  with  salt,  pepper  and 
nutmeg.  Let  the  puree  get  thoroughly  hot,  then  add 
the  yolk  of  an  egg,  and  work  it  well  until  it  forms  a 
light  paste.  Butter  some  small  moulds,  line  them  with 
the  puree.  Place  about  a  dessert-spoonful  of  the  salpicon 
in  the  centre  of  each  mould,  cover  with  potato  puree, 
smooth  the  top  with  the  blade  of  a  knife,  brush  over 
with  yolk  of  egg,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  it 
is  of  a  golden  brown  colour.  Warm  up  the  bechamel 
sauce,  add  the  remaining  Veloute  sauce  and  egg-yolk, 
and  stir  well  over  the  fire.  When  hot,  finish  with  a 
little  cream,  and  add  the  remaining  butter  bit  by  bit. 
Turn  out  the  little  moulds  into  an  entree  dish,  pour  the 
sauce  round  them,  and  serve  hot.  The  remains  of 
chicken,  pigeon,  rabbit,  or  game  may  be  made  up  in 
this  form. 

403.  Ris  de  Veau  a  la  Louis  Philippe. — 1  large  or 

2  small  sweetbreads,  6  oz.  ham,  1  oz.  butter,  1  oz. 
parsley  butter,  8  mushrooms,  1  small  onion,  1  tea- 
spoonful  powdered  herbs,  2  tablespoonfuls  bread- 
crumbs, 2  yolks  of  eggs,  1  large  truffle,  6  oysters,  pepper, 
and  salt,  ^  pint  sauce  Madere,  No.  186. 

Soak  the  sweetbreads  in  cold  water,  blanch  (parboil) 
it,  and  remove  the  skin  and  gristle,  and  cut  in  slices, 


506  RECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

about  half  an  inch  thick.  Chop  the  ham  and  mush- 
rooms finely,  add  the  onion,  finely  chopped,  breadcrumbs, 
and  powdered  savoury  herbs,  and  mix  with  the  egg-yolks 
and  parsley  butter ;  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  cover 
the  slices  of  sweetbread  completely  with  this  mixture. 
Place  each  on  a  square  piece  of  buttered  paper,  or  if  pre- 
ferred in  a  butter  paper  or  china  case;  put  a  slice  of  truffle 
and  a  bearded  oyster  on  top  ;  wrap  up  neatly  if  paper  is 
used.  Melt  a  little  butter  in  a  saute-pan,  put  in  the 
papillotes,  and  bake  in  the  oven  for  fifteen  minutes.  Dish 
up  in  the  papers  on  a  hot  dish,  garnish  with  fried  parsley, 
and  serve  with  a  boat  of  Madere  sauce,  No.  186.  If  cases 
are  used,  put  a  tiny  piece  of  butter  on  top  of  each,  and 
bake  in  the  oven. 

404.  Ris  de  Veau  Frit  aux  Epinards. — 1  large  or 
2  small  sweetbreads,  ^  pint  thick  bechamel  or  Allemande 
sauce,  No.  168,  l^lb.  cooked  spinach  (puree),  piquante 
or  Robert  sauce,  salt  and  pepper,  1  egg,  breadcrumbs, 
and  frying-fat. 

Blanch  the  sweetbreads,  trim,  parboil  for  ten  minutes 
in  slightly  salted  water,  cool,  and  cut  them  into  slices 
about  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick  ;  trim  the  slices  a  httle 
(avoiding  waste).  Have  ready  some  well-reduced  white 
sauce,  partly  cool,  season  the  slices  of  sweetbread,  dip 
each  into  the  sauce,  so  as  to  coat  them  well.  Place  on  a 
baking- sheet  or  wire  tray,  and  put  on  the  ice  to  get  set. 
Beat  up  the  egg,  dip  each  into  egg  and  crumb.  Place 
them  m  a  frying-basket  and  fry  in  hot  fat  or  lard  a 
golden  colour.  Dish  up  in  a  circular  row  on  a  thin 
border  of  mashed  potatoes,  fill  the  centre  with  spinach, 
previously  heated  and  well  seasoned,  give  them  a 
pyramidal  shape,  pour  the  sauce,  previously  heated,  round 
the  dish,  and  serve. 

405.  Quenelles  a  la  Clamart. — 8  to  10  oz.  chicken, 
veal,  or  rabbit  meat  free  from  bone,  skin,  and  gristle,  ^  lb. 
bread  panade,  No.  9,  2  eggs,  3  tablespoonfuls  cream, 
1  gill  of  bechamel  sauce.  No.  169,  1  oz.  butter,  1  gill 
of  cooked  peas,  1  truffle,  ^  cucumber,  ^  pint  stock, 
pepper,  salt,  mustard,  aromatic  spice,  spinach  greening, 
mashed  potatoes  for  border. 


ENTREES    (hot).  507 

Cut  the  meat  into  small  pieces,  pound  in  a  mortar 
till  smooth,  add  the  panade,  mix  thoroughly  with  the 
cream,  a  few  drops  of  spinach  greening  or  a  table- 
spoonful  of  cooked  spinach,  and  the  eggs.  Season  to 
taste,  and  rub  through  a  sieve.  Fill  a  number  of  well- 
buttered  and  ornamented  pie  moulds  with  this  farce  ; 
place  them  in  a  saute-pan  with  a  little  water  and  cook 
in  the  oven  for  about  ten  minutes.  Reduce  the  stock  to 
a  quarter,  add  the  sauce  and  reduce  again.  Scoop  out 
some  pea  shapes  of  cucumber,  cook  in  salted  water, 
strain,  and  put  in  a  stewpan  together  with  the  peas, 
add  the  butter  and  toss  over  the  fire.  Cut  out  the 
truffle  in  pea-shapes,  mix  with  the  above,  moisten  with 
a  little  sauce,  season  with  pepper,  salt,  and  a  pinch  of 
sugar.  Turn  out  the  moulds  and  dress  neatly  on  a 
round  border  of  mashed  potatoes.  Fill  the  centre  with 
the  prepared  garnish,  and  pour  a  little  of  the  remaming 
sauce  round  the  base  of  the  dish.  Should  any  quenelle- 
meat  be  left  over,  put  it  in  a  forcing  bag  or  paper  cornet 
and  force  out  on  a  buttered  saute-pan  very  small 
quenelles  about  the  size  and  shape  of  peas  ;  add  a  little 
stock,  poach  for  three  or  four  minutes,  and  mix  these 
with  the  above-mentioned  garniture. 

406.  Foie  de  Veau  a  I'Echalote. — 1  lb.  calf's  liver, 
2  oz.  butter,  1  dessert-spoonful  flour,  2  finely  chopped 
shallots,  1  teaspoonful  lemon  juice,  1  dessert- spoonful 
chopped  parsley,  pepper  and  salt,  ^  gill  brown  stock,  1 
glass  of  Chablis  wine,  a  few  half- moons  of  puff  pastry 
(fleurons). 

Wipe  the  liver  with  a  damp  cloth,  cut  it  in  very  fine 
short  slices,  season  with  pepper  and  salt.  Melt  the 
butter  in  a  frying-pan,  add  the  chopped  shallots,  and  fry 
a  light  colour ;  put  in  the  liver,  and  toss  over  a  quick  fire 
for  about  five  minutes  ;  sprinkle  the  flour  over,  toss  again, 
add  the  chopped  parsley,  lemon  juice,  and  wine,  also  the 
brown  stock.  Let  it  simmer  whilst  stirring  for  another 
five  minutes.  Pile  up  on  a  hot  dish,  garnish  with  half- 
moons  of  puff  paste,  and  serve. 

407.  GuUasch  (Gulias-hus),   an   Austro-Hwigarimi 


508  '  EECHEKCHE    COOKERY. 

Dish. — 1  lb.  lean  beef  (sirloin  or  rib),  h  onion,  3  oz. 
butter,  1  teaspoonful  carraway  seeds,  1  dessert- spoon- 
ful of  flour,  1  gill  brown  stock,  2  small  potatoes,  4  oz. 
bacon,  ^  wineglassful  of  Madeira  wine,  ^  teaspoonful 
of  salt,  a  pinch  of  paprika  pepper. 

Remove  the  skin  and  fat  h'om  the  meat,  cut  it  into 
small  dice,  wash  and  peel  the  potatoes,  cut  them  hkewise 
in  dice,  together  with  the  bacon  ;  tie  the  carraway  seeds 
in  a  piece  of  muslin  cloth.  Melt  half  the  butter  in  a 
saute-pan ;  when  hot,  add  the  onion  finely  chopped,  and 
fry  a  httle  just  enough  to  slightly  colour  them;  add  the 
meat,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  let  it  cook  in  a 
hot  oven  or  over  a  bright  fire  for  about  ten  minutes. 
Sprinkle  with  the  flour,  moisten  with  the  wine  and  stock, 
add  the  tied-up  carraway  seed,  and  let  it  simmer  slowly. 
Melt  the  remainder  of  the  butter  in  a  fi-ying-pan,  add 
the  bacon,  and  fry  a  little  ;  now  add  the  potatoes  and  cook 
them  slowly  over  the  fire  until  of  a  nice  golden  colour ; 
pour  olf  the  superfluous  fat,  mix  with  the  meat,  cover 
over  and  allow  to  simmer  gently  until  the  meat  and 
potatoes  are  quite  done.  Stir  from  time  to  time,  using  a 
fork  for  this  purpose  so  as  not  to  break  the  potato  dice, 
remove  the  carraway  seeds,  dish  up  on  a  hot  dish,  and 
serve  very  hot. 

Veal  can  be  treated  in  the  same  way  ;  coarsely-minced 
apples  are  sometimes  added,  and  cooked  with  the  meat. 

408.  Ris  de  Veau  en  Attelets. — Cut  some  cooked 
sweetbread  into  small  shces  ;  cut  as  many  thin  slices  of 
bacon  of  the  same  size.  Season  the  breads  with  a  little 
pepper  or  aromatic  seasoning.  Put  three  slices  of  each 
breads  and  bacon,  alternately  placed,  on  to  small  skewers, 
and  proceed  thus  until  the  breads  and  bacon  are  used 
up.  Egg  and  crumb  twice,  or  dip  into  frying  batter. 
Have  ready  some  hot  fat,  fry  a  golden  colour,  drain,  dish 
up,  and  garnish  with  fried  parsley. 

409.  Ris  de  Veau  Frit  a  rAmericaine. — Cut  a 
blanched  sweetbread  into  slices  about  J  an  inch  thick, 
season  with  pepper  and  salt,  beat  up  an  egg,  add  a 
little  chopped  parsley  and  i  oz.  melted  butter,  mix  well ; 


ENTREES    (hot).  509 

dip  the  slices  into  this,  cover  well  with  breadcrumbs, 
repeat  this  operation,  shape,  and  fry  in  boiling  fat. 
Drain,  serve  on. toast  or  a  hot  dish;  pour  some  hot 
tomato  sauce  round,  not  over,  the  sweetbreads,  and 
serve. 

410.  Quenelles  de  Veau  a  la  Marengo. — |  lb. 
veal,  freed  from  skin,  fat,  and  sinews,  J  lb.  soft  bread, 
4  oz.  butter,  4  yolks  and  2  whole  eggs,  ^  gill  white 
sauce  or  Veloute,  No.  169,  1  oz.  small  preserved  mush- 
rooms, ^  gill  tomato  sauce,  h  gill  stock,  ^  gill  Espagnole 
sauce,  1  glass  sherry,  6  small  eggs  fried  in  oil  for  garnish, 
salt,  white  and  red  pepper,  and  nutmeg. 

Soak  the  bread  in  cold  water  or  milk  for  about  ten 
minutes,  press  out  the  moisture,  and  put  it  in  a  stew- 
pan  with  2  oz.  of  butter.  Stir  over  the  fire  until  it 
resembles  a  smooth  paste,  and  leaves  the  sides  of  the 
pan  clean.  Then  add  the  yolks  of  four  eggs,  stir  a  little 
longer,  to  cook  the  eggs,  and  spread  on  a  plate  ;  cover 
with  a  buttered  paper  and  let  cool.  Chop  the  veal 
small,  and  pound  in  a  mortar  till  smooth.  Rub  the 
pounded  meat  through  a  sieve,  and  return  to  the 
mortar.  Mix  in  the  prepared  bread  panade.  Add  the 
remainder  of  the  butter,  which  should  be  quite  cold 
(having  been  kept  on  the  ice),  work  in  the  white  sauce 
and  two  whole  eggs,  one  at  time,  season  with  salt, 
pepper,  and  nutmeg  ;  put  it  on  a  plate  or  dish  and  keep 
on  the  ice  till  wanted.  Shape  the  forcemeat  into 
quenelles  by  means  of  two  dessert-spoons,  previously 
dipped  in  boiling  water,  and  place  each  carefully  on  a 
buttered  saute-pan,  about  half  an  inch  apart.  Pour  in 
gently  some  boiling  water  or  white  stock,  and  cook  for 
about  fifteen  minutes.  Put  the  tomato,  Espagnole 
sauce,  stock,  and  sherry  in  a  stewpan,  let  it  reduce 
well,  skim,  and  add  the  mushrooms,  cut  in  slices.  Lift 
out  the  quenelles,  drain  carefully  on  a  cloth,  dish  up  in 
pyramid  form,  sauce  over  with  the  above,  fry  the  six  eggs 
separately  in  very  hot  salad  oil  till  slightly  brown,  drain 
on  a  cloth  and  place  them  round  the  quenelles. 

411.  Paupiettes  de  Veau  a  la  Toscane. — 2^  to  3  lb. 


510  KECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

fillet  of  veal,  1  oz.  butter,  4  even-sized  ripe  tomatoes^ 
8  thin  slices  of  bacon,  2  oz.  fat  pork,  4  oz.  panade,  3 
yolks  of  eggs,  10  peppercorns,  2  truffles,  8  mushrooms, 
I  gill  white  sauce,  ^  pint  stock,  ^  pint  tomato  sauce, 
i  bouquet  garni.  No.  3,  1  carrot,  ^  turnip,  1  onion^ 
meat  glaze,  pepper,  salt,  and  cayenne,  J  pint  cooked 
green  peas,  1  tablespoonful  breadcrumbs,  1  teaspoonful 
chopped  parsley. 

Cut  the  veal  into  slices  about  ^  of  an  inch  thick, 
bat  the  slices  and  trim  into  heart  shapes,  place  a. 
thin  slice  of  bacon  on  each  of  the  slices  of  veal ; 
pound  the  trimmings  of  veal  and  bacon,  previously 
freed  from  skin  and  gristle ;  also  the  pork.  When 
smooth,  add  the  panade  and  the  yolks  of  eggj 
season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  a  pinch  of  cayenne  ; 
mix  thoroughly,  and  rub  through  a  sieve.  Put  a  layer 
of  this  farce  on  the  slices  of  veal  and  bacon,  roll  up, 
put  a  piece  of  buttered  paper  round  each,  tie  up  with 
string  so  as  to  keep  in  shape.  Put  in  a  deep  saute- 
pan,  add  1  oz.  butter,  the  peppercorns,  bouquet  garni, 
and  carrot,  turnip,  and  onions  ;  cut  into  slices,  place  the 
paupiettes  on  top,  cover  and  fry  over  a  quick  fire  for  a 
few  minutes,  then  moisten  with  the  stock.  Put  the  pan 
in  the  oven  or  on  the  side  of  the  stove,  and  braise  for 
about  one  hour.  Baste  occasionally.  Cut  the  tomatoes 
into  halves,  scoop  out  a  little  of  the  interior,  chop  the 
truffles  and  mushrooms  finely,  mix  with  the  remainder 
of  the  farce.  Add  breadcrumbs,  chopped  parsley,  and 
white  sauce.  Season  with  pepper,  salt,  and  a  little 
cayenne.  Stufi:  the  tomatoes  with  this,  place  them  in  a 
well-buttered  saute-pan,  and  cook  in  an  oven  for  ten 
minutes. 

Remove  string  and  paper  from  the  paupiettes,  place 
them  on  a  baking-tin,  brush  over  with  liquid  meat  glaze, 
and  put  in  the  oven  for  a  few  seconds.  Put  each 
paupiette  in  the  centre  of  a  stuffed  tomato,  dish  up  in 
a  circle  on  a  hot  dish,  pour  the  sauce  round  them,  dress 
the  peas  in  the  centre  of  the  dish,  and  serve.  The  sauce 
is  prepared    as  follows  :    Take  off   the    fat   from   the 


ENTREES    (hot).  511 

liquor  in  which  the  paupiettes  have  been  cooked, 
strain  the  latter  into  a  saucepan,  add  the  tomato  sauce, 
and  reduce  to  required  consistency.  Add  a  little  more 
seasoning  if  it  be  found  necessary.  The  paupiettes  may 
be  dressed  on  a  thin  border  of  mashed  potatoes,  and,  if 
desired,  a  puree  of  spinach,  by  way  of  a  change,  can 
be  served  in  place  of  peas. 

412.  Petites  Noisettes  de  Veau  a  la  Princesse. — 
About  2  lbs.  of  fillet  or  cushion  of  veal,  ^  pint  asparagus 
tips,  8  artichoke  bottoms,  2  truffles,  ^  lb.  butter,  |  gill 
white  wine,  ^  gill  sherry,  |  pint  demi-glace  sauce,  No. 
185,  salt,  pepper,  and  nutmeg,  8  rounds  of  fried  bread 
(size  of  fillets). 

Cut  the  veal  into  six  or  eight  even-sized  round 
slices,  flatten  a  little  and  trim  neatly.  Put  the  arti- 
chokes into  sufficient  hot  salted  water  to  cover,  acidu- 
lated with  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice  ;  add  a  small 
piece  of  butter,  and  boil  up  very  gently.  Cook  the 
asparagus  points  in  salted  water  containing  a  very  small 
piece  of  soda,  strain,  let  cool  in  water,  strain  again  and 
put  in  a  stewpan,  moisten  with  a  little  demi-glace  sauce 
and  ^  oz.  butter.  Slice  the  truffles  and  cook  them 
in  a  little  sherry  wine.  Season  the  fillets  with  pepper 
and  a  very  little  grated  nutmeg.  Saute  them  in  butter 
in  the  usual  way.  Put  them  on  a  baking-sheet  and 
brush  over  with  meat  glaze.  Place  each  on  a  round 
piece  of  fried  bread ;  fill  the  artichoke  bottoms  with 
asparagus  points  and  put  one  on  each  fillet.  Dress 
them  in  a  circle  on  a  dish.  Put  the  remainder  of 
asparagus  points  in  the  centre  of  the  dish.  Arrange  the 
slices  of  truffles  as  a  garnish  on  top  of  each  dressed 
fillet,  so  as  to  form  an  effective  design.  Have  ready 
the  demi-glace  sauce,  previously  well  reduced,  with  the 
wine,  and  containing  the  essence  of  truffle  and  fillets. 
Sauce  round  the  dish  and  serve. 

413.  Tendrons  de  Veau  a  la  Jardiniere. — About  3  lbs. 
neck  of  veal,  8  to  10  thin  slices  of  bacon,  1  carrot,  1  onion, 
1  bayleaf,  a  few  sprigs  of  parsley  and  thyme,  1  oz. 
butter,  f  pint  white  stock,  1  glass  Chablis,  meat  glaze, 
salt  and  pepper,  jardiniere  of  vegetables,  No.  295. 


512  KECHEECHE    COOKERY. 

Free  the  meat  from  the  bones,  pare  off  the  skin,  &c., 
and  cut  into  scallops  or  little  fillets  a  little  larger  than 
oyster-shells.  Blanch  them,  press,  and  let  cool.  Trim 
neatly  into  shape,  season  lightly  mth  salt  and  pepper, 
wrap  each  in  a  thin  slice  of  bacon,  and  place  in  a  saute- 
pan  with  the  butter  on  a  bed  of  sliced  onion,  carrot,  and 
herbs.  Moisten  \dth  the  stock  and  wine,  cover  with  a 
hd,  and  stew  gently  in  the  oven  or  on  the  stove  for  about 
an  hour.  When  done,  drain  off  the  liquor  into  another 
saute-pan,  add  some  meat  glaze  and  reduce  to  about 
half  the  original  quantity,  remove  the  fat.  Put  the 
tendrons  in  with  the  glaze  and  allow  them  to  get 
thoroughly  blended,  so  as  to  introduce  the  flavour  of  the 
glaze.  Dish  up  on  a  border  of  mashed  potatoes  and 
serve  a  jardiniere  of  spring  vegetables  in  the  centre. 

414.  Vol-au-Vent  de  Ris  de  Veau  a  la  Victoria. — 
It  lb.  puff'  paste  (4  turns),  1  pair  sweetbreads,  2  oz. 
butter,  12  mushrooms,  i  pint  rich  stock,  cocks'  combs, 
2  large  truffles  sliced,  chicken  forcemeat  quenelles,  f 
pmt  Yeloute  sauce,  No.  169,  2  eggs,  J  gill  cream. 

Roll  out  the  paste  to  a  square  about  an  inch  thick ; 
allow  it  to  stand  for  a  few  minutes.  Place  a  plate  of 
the  desired  size  of  vol-au-vent  required  lightly  on  the 
paste,  and  then  with  the  point  of  a  knife  cut  out  the 
shape,  turn  the  paste  over  on  to  a  baking-sheet,  brush 
the  surface  with  beaten  egg-yolk.  Make  an  incision 
with  the  point  of  a  knife  in  the  shape  of  a  ring  about  an 
inch  from  the  edge  (this  is  to  form  the  lid).  Trace  a  few 
lines  across  the  surface  of  the  centre  ring  and  bake  it  in 
an  evenly  heated  oven ;  the  time  required  for  baking  is 
from  forty  to  forty-five  minutes.  Carefully  remove  the 
lid,  scoop  out  the  soft  parts  ;  keep  warm  until  required 
for  filling.  Blanch  the  sweetbreads,  cool,  drain,  and 
trim,  cut  them  into  slices.  Melt  the  butter  in  a  saute- 
pan,  lay  in  the  slices  of  sweetbread,  season  with  salt, 
pepper,  and  a  pinch  of  grated  nutmeg.  Moisten  with 
the  white  stock  and  wine,  cover  with  a  buttered  paper, 
and  cook  slowly  over  the  fire  or  in  the  oven  until 
tender.     Take  off  the  butter,  add  the  sauce,  the  sliced 


ENTREES    (hot).  513 

muslirooms,  sliced  truffles,  and  forcemeat  quenelles. 
Let  simmer  gently  for  a  few  minutes  (if  the  sauce  is 
found  too  liquid,  strain  it  off  and  reduce  to  the  desired 
consistency).  Mix  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  with  the  cream 
and  add  to  the  sauce ;  stir  gently  over  the  tire  until 
the  eggs  bind  without  boiling,  and  keep  hot  in  the  bain- 
marie  until  required  for  serving.  Fill  the  puff  paste 
crust  with  the  prepared  ragout,  put  on  the  cover,  and 
serve  on  a  round,  hot  dish  with  a  folded  napkin. 

415.  Pieds  de  Veau  a  I'Horly. — 1  pair  of  calf's  feet, 
1  carrot,  1  onion,  \  oz.  flour,  ^  gill  vinegar,  pepper- 
corns, salt,  oil,  parsley,  1  egg,  breadcrumbs,  fat  for 
frying,  tomato  sauce,  No.  202. 


Calf's  Head,  Showing  Manner  of  Jointing. 

Wash  and  scald  the  calf's  feet,  bone  the  upper  part 
and  remove  the  shank  bone  ;  slit  them  in  two  and  steep 
in  cold  water  for  one  or  two  hours.  Blanch  them  in 
salted  water.  Put  them  in  a  stewpan  with  sufficient 
water  or  stock  to  well  cover.  Add  the  carrot  and  onion 
sliced  and  a  few  peppercorns.  Cook  slowly  till  tender. 
Drain,  remove  the  hoof  bones,  place  the  meat  under 
press,  and  let  cool.   Cut  into  convenient  strips.  Prepare 


514  RECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

a  dressing  of  oil,  vinegar,  and  chopped  parsley ;  pour 
this  over  the  pieces  and  let  them  soak  for  an  hour.  Mix 
the  flour  with  a  little  pepper  and  salt,  dip  each  piece  in 
this,  egg,  and  crumbs,  fry  in  hot  fat  a  golden  colour, 
strain,  dish  up,  and  serve  with  tomato  sauce. 

416.  To  Blanch  Sweetbreads. — After  having  soaked 
the  sweetbreads  in  cold  water  from  2  to  3  hours,  put  them 
in  a  stewpan  with  sufficient  cold  water  to  cover.  Let 
the  whole  come  quickly  to  the  boil,  then  plunge  them 
quickly  into  cold  water,  let  them  remain  for  half  an  hour, 
and  then  drain  them. 

417.  Tete  de  Veau  en  Tortue.— Wash  half  a  calf  s 
head  well,  and  rub  with  a  coarse  cloth.  Bone  carefully  ; 
start  cutting  from  the  centre  of  the  head  down  to  the 
nostrils.  Wash  and  blanch  the  flesh  ;  put  in  a  stewpan 
an  ounce  of  flour,  stir  in  a  quart  of  water  and  a  tea- 
spoonful  of  ^^negar  ;  add  an  onion,  3  cloves,  a  bunch  of 
herbs,  one  carrot,  and  a  bayleaf.  Cut  the  meat  of  the 
head  into  convenient  pieces,  remove  the  centre  of  the 
ears,  put  them  into  the  stewpan,  add  2  to  3  quarts  of 
stock,  and  boil  slowly  till  tender.     Skim  occasionally. 

When  done  take  up  as  many  pieces  as  may  be 
required  (the  remainder  will  keep  if  put  with  the  stock 
into  an  earthenware  pan),  put  them  in  a  stewpan  with 
a  glass  of  sherry,  cover  and  boil  five  minutes,  season  to 
taste,  and  add  garnishing  a  la  Tortue,  No.  313.  Cook 
for  15  minutes  longer,  dish  up,  garnish  with  fried  bread 
croutons  glazed  over,  and  fried  parsley,  and  serve. 

Note. — The  brain  should  be  removed,  washed,  and 
kept  in  water  till  wanted.  The  tongue  can  be  cooked 
at  the  same  time  or  may  be  served  as  a  separate  dish. 

418.  Tete  de  Veau  a  la  Poulette.— Cook  half  a  calf's 
head  as  in  the  foregoing  recipe.  Add  about  1  pint  of 
poulette  sauce,  No.  172,  omitting  the  sherry  and  Tortue 
garnishing.  Simmer  slowly  for  15  minutes,  dish  up  and 
serve.  If  found  that  the  sauce  is  too  thick  add  a  little 
milk  or  cream. 

419.  Tete  de  Veau  a  la  Vinaigrette. — Wash,  blanch, 
and  cook  as  before,  drain  well,  dish  up,  garnish  with 


ENTREES    (hot).  515 

sprigs  of  parsley,  and  serve  with  a  boat  of  vinaigrette 
sauce,  consisting  of  one  gill  of  best  oil,  rather  more  than 
^  a  gill  of  vinegar,  pepper,  salt,  chopped  chervil,  parsley, 
olives,  and  one  small  shallot. 

420.  Tete  de  Veau  a  la  Cavour.— Proceed  as  before  ; 
finish  cooking  in  Tomato  sauce.  No.  202,  adding  garnish- 
ing a  la  Cavour,  No.  259.  Dish  up,  garnish  neatly,  and 
serve. 

421.  Cervelles  de  Veau  au  Beurre  Noir. — Remove 
the  skin  from  3  calves'  brains,  wash  well,  drain  and  cook 
in  richly-flavoured  stock  for  about  six  minutes  ;  strain 
well,  dish  up  and  sauce  over  with  some  hot  black  butter 
sauce.  No.  193. 

422.  Filets  de  Boeuf  Pique  a  la  Regniere. — Middle 
cut  of  fillet  (about  4  lbs.),  1  large  truffle,  1  glass  sherry, 
1  small  carrot,  1  small  turnip,  1  small  onion,  10  pepper- 
corns, 1  bouquet  garni.  No.  3,  larding  bacon,  4  even- 
sized  tomatoes,  8  small  potatoes,  2  oz.  butter,  1  Spanish 
onion,  2  oz.  Parmesan  cheese,  1  oz.  breadcrumbs,  2 
yolks  of  eggs,  8  rounds  of  bread  croutes,  1  quart  of  stock, 
1  gill  brown  sauce,  pepper  and  salt,  meat  glaze. 

Free  the  fillet  from  skin,  sinew,  and  fat ;  trim  a 
little,  and  cut  into  eight  even-sized  slices  (fillets).  Lard 
one  side  of  each  fillet  with  strips  of  bacon  and  strips  of 
truffles  ;  butter  thickly  a  saute-pan,  range  the  fillets  in 
same,  clean  the  carrot  and  turnip,  cut  into  slices,  peel 
the  onion  and  cut  in  slices.  Season  the  fillets  with 
pepper  and  salt,  cover  with  the  vegetables,  herbs, 
peppercorns,  and  trimmings  of  bacon.  Put  this  on  the 
fire  and  broil  both  sides  of  the  fillets  a  little  ;  then  add 
the  sherry  and  stock,  cover  with  a  lid  or  buttered  paper, 
and  braise  in  the  oven  for  about  20  minutes.  Take 
out  the  fillets,  put  them  on  a  dish,  and  keep  hot. 
Remove  fat  from  the  liquor,  add  the  brown  sauce, 
boil  gently  for  10  minutes  and  strain.  Boil  the  Spanish 
onion  in  salted  water.  Peel  the  potatoes,  cut  the  ends, 
scoop  out  the  centre  with  a  column  cutter,  prepare  a 
mixture  with  the  Spanish  onion  finely  chopped,  grated 
Parmesan  cheese,  breadcrumbs,  egg-yolks,  and  1  oz.  of 

33 


BEEF   (DU    BCEUF). 
.1 


Bibs 


Loin 


Hip 


Plates  (C6tes> 

Brisket 


Plate 


Prime  Ribs 


.  Short  Loin 


Fillet 


Sirloin 
Flank 


Tail 


Ki'lney 

Bayette 
tl'Aloyau 

Thick  Flank 


Buttock 


Rump  anil 
Aitchbtjne 


Leg  ami 
:    Shin 


ENTREES    (hot).  517 

butter.  Fry  the  potatoes  in  hot  fat  or  lard,  drain  and 
cool,  then  fill  with  the  prepared  stuffing.  Cut  the 
tomatoes  in  halves,  broil  slightly  in  butter,  put  a  stuffed 
potato  on  the  cut  side  of  each  tomato,  place  them  on  a 
baking-sheet,  and  bake  for  10  minutes.  Dish  up  the 
fillets  on  fancifully  cut  croutes  of  fried  bread,  brush  the 
surface  of  the  fillets  with  dissolved  meat  glaze,  garnish 
round  the  dish  with  the  stuffed  potatoes  and  tomatoes. 
Pour  a  little  of  the  sauce  round  the  dish  and  serve  the 
remainder  in  a  sauce-boat. 

423.  Filets  de  Boeuf  a  rAthenlenne. — About  4  lbs. 
fillet  of  beef,  larding  bacon,  a  pint  of  mirepoix  (carrot, 
turnip,  onion,  bayleaf,  bacon,  &c.),  i  gill  Marsala  wine, 
1  oz.  butter,  8  small  cooked  artichoke  bottoms,  2  egg- 
plants (aubergines),  macedoine  of  vegetables,  ^  gill 
bechamel  sauce.  No.  167,  i  pint  Espagnole  sauce,  No. 
184,  I  gill  brown  stock,  a  little  stewed  rice  for  dishing 
up,  salt  and  pepper. 

Trim  the  fillet,  cut  into  even-sized  slices  about  a 
quarter  of  an  inch  thick,  flatten  and  pare  a  little,  lard 
them  with  small  strips  of  larding  bacon.  Put  the 
mirepoix  and  butter  in  a  saute-pan  ;  when  hot,  lay  in  the 
fillets,  larded  side  upwards  ;  season  with  salt  and  pepper, 
put  them  in  a  hot  oven  until  they  take  colour,  then  add 
the  wine  and  stock,  cover  with  a  buttered  paper,  and 
continue  cooking  in  the  oven  until  the  fillets  are  tender. 
Take  out  the  fillets,  remove  the  fat  from  the  mirepoix, 
add  the  brown  sauce,  and  cook  over  the  fire  for  ten 
minutes.  Skim  and  strain.  Prepare  the  macedoine  of 
vegetables  with  some  carrots,  turnips,  cut  with  a 
vegetable  scoop,  together  with  some  French  beans  and 
peas ;  cook  separately  in  salted  water,  strain,  and 
moisten  with  bechamel  sauce  ;  season  to  taste,  and  fill 
up  the  artichoke  bottoms  in  a  pile ;  place  them  in  a 
saute-pan  in  the  oven  to  get  hot.  Cook  the  egg-plants  ; 
cut  into  thick  slices  when  cold  ;  egg,  crumb,  and  fry  in 
hot  fat  a  golden  colour.  Have  ready  some  cooked  rice, 
nicely  seasoned  ;  put  a  layer  of  the  rice  in  the  centre  of 
an  oblong  dish,  dress  the  fillets  neatly  on  this,  surround 


518  RECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

with  filled  artichoke  bottoms  and  fried  egg-plant.  Pour 
a  little  of  the  sauce,  which  should  be  well  reduced,  over 
the  fillets,  and  serve  the  remainder  separately.  This 
dish  can  also  be  served  by  leaving  the  fillet  whole,  pro- 
ceeding exactly  as  described. 

424.  Filets  de  BcBuf  a  la  Viennoise. — 2  lbs.  lean 
beef,  1  teaspoonful  chopped  parsley,  1  teaspoonful 
savoury  herbs,  3  oz.  butter,  1  tablespoonful  flour,  3 
onions,  2  eggs,  1  gill  demi-glace  sauce,  No.  185,  salt, 
pepper,  cayenne,  and  nutmeg. 

Remove  the  sinews  from  the  meat,  cut  it  into  small 
pieces,  and  chop  very  fine,  or  pass  twice  through  the 
mincing  machine.  Mix  this  with  chopped  parsley, 
savoury  herbs,  a  little  flour,  one  whole  and  one  yolk 
of  egg,  season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  a  httle  grated 
nutmeg.  Form  some  even-sized  balls,  flatten  each 
with  the  palm  of  your  hand  to  give  them  the  shape 
of  round  fillets.  Peel  and  slice  the  onions,  cut  some 
of  the  slices  from  the  centre  of  each  onion,  rather 
thicker  than  the  rest,  divide  the  rings  carefully,  and 
reserve  the  largest  for  frying  separately.  Dissolve 
about  an  ounce  of  butter  in  a  frying-pan,  and  fry  the 
divided  onions  until  of  a  golden  colour  ;  put  them  in 
a  small  stewpan,  with  sufficient  broTsu  sauce  to  keep 
moist,  and  allow  to  simmer  gently  for  about  twenty 
minutes.  Dredge  the  prepared  fillets  with  a  little 
flour,  and  fry  in  butter  in  a  fr}dng-pan.  Dip  the 
onion  rings  into  flour,  then  into  white  of  egg  and 
again  in  flour,  place  them  in  a  frying-basket,  and  fry 
a  golden  colour.  Dish  up  the  fillets,  put  a  spoonful 
of  stewed  onions  on  the  centre  of  each.  Ornament 
round  the  fillets  with  the  fried  onion  rings,  sauce  over 
the  fillets  with  demi-glace  sauce,  sprinkle  with  a  few 
drops  of  meat  glaze,  and  serve. 

425.  Filets  de  Boeuf  a  la  Garibaldi.— 2^  lbs.  fillet  of 
beef  (middle  cut),  about  ^Ib.  beef  marrow,  1  large  truffle, 
I  lb.  ham,  2  eggs,  1  oz.  butter,  tomato  or  piquante  sauce, 
salt,  and  pepper,  nutmeg,  macaroni  croquettes  for 
garnish. 


ENTREES    (hot).  519 

Cut  the  fillet  into  slices  about  one  quarter  of  an 
inch  thick,  beat  them  a  little  with  a  wet  knife,  and 
stamp  or  cut  out  some  rounds  about  two  inches  in 
diameter.  Cut  as  many  thin  round  slices  of  marrow  as 
you  have  fillets,  blanch  them  and  keep  till  required. 
Remove  skin  and  fat  from  the  trimmings  of  the  fillet, 
cut  up  small,  and  pound  in  a  mortar  till  smooth.  Add 
suet  and  marrow,  about  half  the  quantity  that  there  is 
meat,  pound  together  thoroughly,  mix  in  the  yolks  of 
two  eggs,  season  with  pepper,  salt,  and  a  little  nutmeg, 
and  rub  through  a  wire  sieve.  Season  the  fillets,  put  a 
thin  slice  of  blanched  marrow  and  a  slice  of  truffle  on 
each,  placing  a  thin  layer  of  beef  farce  between  each. 
Put  a  thin  slice  of  bacon,  as  nearly  as  possible  the  size  of 
the  fillets,  on  the  top  of  each  fillet ;  thus  prepared,  press 
slightly  together.  Cover  over  completely  with  a  thin 
layer  of  farce,  chop  finely  the  trimmings  of  truffle,  dip 
the  fillets  in  white  of  egg,  sprinkle  the  surface  with 
chopped  truffle.  Melt  the  butter  in  a  saute-pan ;  when 
hot,  put  in  the  fillets  and  broil  over  a  quick  fire  for  a  few 
minutes,  then  cover  with  a  buttered  paper,  and  finish  in 
a  hot  oven.  When  done,  take  up,  dress  in  a  row  on 
a  small  bed  of  mashed  potatoes.  Sauce  over  with 
well-reduced  tomato  or  piquante  sauce,  garnish  the 
sides  with  fried  macaroni  croquettes,  and  serve  hot. 

426.  Filets  de  Boeuf  a  la  Chateaubriand. — Cut  two 
or  three  double  fillets  (middle  cut),  flatten  and  trim, 
season  with  pepper  and  salt,  dip  in  sweet  oil,  and  broil 
on  a  gridiron  over  a  clear  fire  (coal  or  gas).  Dish  up 
in  the  centre  of  a  dish,  put  some  Parisienne  potatoes, 
No.  545,  on  each  side,  sauce  over  the  meat  with  Sauce 
Chateaubriand,  No.  198,  and  serve. 

427.  Porterhouse  Steak  larded,  a  la  Gouffe. — Cut 
two  steaks  from  the  sirloin  about  one  inch  in  thickness. 
Each  steak  should  have  the  undercut  left  on,  and  must 
be  cut  from  the  chine -bone  portion.  Flatten  and  trim 
a  little,  lard  one  side  of  each  with  strips  of  fat  bacon 
(larding  bacon),  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  brush  over 
well  with  oiled  butter,  broil  over  a  brisk  fire  (rather 


520  RECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

underdone),  dish  up,  garnishing  a  la  Gouffe,  No.  290, 
and  serve  with  demi-glace,  No.  185. 

428. — Tournedos  de  Boeuf  a  la  Napoleon. — 2  to  3  lbs. 
fillet  of  beef,  2  oz.  butter,  4  oz.  calf  s  liver,  2  oz.  foie 
gras,  2  oz.  cooked  tongue,  2  oz.  fat  bacon,  1  shallot  finely 
chopped,  1  egg,  1  oz.  meat  glaze,  stoned  olives,  1  oz. 
panade,  salt  and  pepper,  Bordelaise  sauce.  No.  197, 
marrow  fat. 

Trim  the  piece  of  fillet,  and  cut  it  in  very  small 
pieces.  Grill  or  broil  them  in  a  little  butter  for  about 
six  minutes  (they  must  not  be  cooked  through),  and 
place  them  between  two  boards  to  press  and  cool.  Cut 
the  liver  into  slices,  and  mince  the  bacon  evenly.  Melt 
a  little  butter,  add  the  shallots,  and  fry  a  golden  colour ; 
then  add  the  bacon  and  liver,  and  toss  over  the  fire  for 
about  five  minutes ;  season  to  taste,  put  on  a  plate,  and 
let  cool.  Pound  the  above  in  a  mortar,  together  with  the 
tongue  and  foie  gras,  add  the  panade  and  egg,  mix  well, 
season  to  taste,  and  rub  through  a  fine  sieve.  Spread 
one  side  of  each  fillet  thickly  with  this  farce ;  stuff  as 
many  stoned  olives  as  there  are  fillets  with  the  same. 
Cook  the  fillets  for  a  few  minutes  in  the  oven,  brush 
over  with  meat  glaze.  Put  the  olives  in  a  buttered  saute- 
pan  in  the  oven,  and  cook  for  six  minutes.  Blanch  the 
marrow  (cut  into  very  small  rounds),  drain,  and  warm  up 
in  the  Sauce  Bordelaise.  Dish  up  the  fillets  on  a  potato 
border,  put  again  in  the  oven  so  as  to  heat  them 
thoroughly.  Put  a  stuffed  olive  and  a  round  of  marrow 
on  each  fillet,  sauce  over  and  round  with  well-reduced 
Bordelaise  sauce,  and  serve. 

429.  Tournedos  de  Boeuf  a  la  Moscovienne. — Choose 
a  nice  piece  of  tender  or  sirloin  of  beef,  remove  all  the 
sinews  and  fat,  cut  it  into  even-sized  oblong  slices,  flatten 
a  little  with  the  cutlet-bat,  and  lard  them  with  small 
strips  of  larding  bacon,  raw  ham,  and  truffles,  so  that  they 
are  inserted  in  alternate  rows.  Place  the  tournedos  iu 
a  flat  stew^an,  cover  them  with  a  few  slices  of  fat  bacon, 
add  half  a  sliced  onion,  half  a  sliced  carrot,  and  a  small 
bunch  of  savoury  herbs,  No.  3.     Season  with   pepper 


ENTREES    (hot).  521 

and  salt,  moisten  with  a  gill  of  white  wine  and  a  gill  of 
brown  stock,  No.  83.  Cover  and  cook  briskly  over  the 
fire  from  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes.  Drain  the  tournedos, 
remove  the  bacon,  add  half  a  pint  of  Espagnole  sauce. 
No.  184,  and  a  dessert-spoonful  of  grated  horse- 
radish to  the  fond.  Let  all  reduce  well  and  strain  into 
a  small  stewpan.  Remove  all  fat  and  finish  the  sauce, 
with  a  pinch  of  castor  sugar  and  an  ounce  of  fresh 
butter,  worked  in  bit  by  bit ;  keep  the  sauce  warm.  Glaze 
and  dish  up  the  tournedos,  garnish  with  alternate  groups 
of  button  mushrooms,  previously  warmed  in  well-reduced 
stock,  and  medium-sized  stuffed  onions  {See  Chapter  X.). 
Pour  the  sauce  over  the  garnish  (not  over  the  meat), 
and  serve. 

430.  Tournedos  a  la  Madeleine.— Cut  eight  shces  of 
fillet  of  beef,  of  equal  size,  each  weighing  about  a  quarter 
of  a  pound ;  beat  them  a  little  and  trim  them  neatly. 
Prepare  as  many  croutons  of  bread,  the  same  size  as  the 
tournedos  ;  fry  them  in  clarified  butter  and  drain.  Warm 
up  in  a  small  earthen  pan  three  ounces  of  meat  glaze, 
work  in  with  a  wooden  spoon  gradually  four  ounces  of 
fresh  butter  ;  work  vigorously  until  it  resembles  a  light 
creamy  substance,  adding  in  the  meantime  the  juice 
of  one  large  lemon,  one  shallot,  a  sprig  of  tarragon,  one 
of  chervil,  one  of  chive,  and  a  few  sprigs  of  parsley,  all 
chopped  very  fine  ;  season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  a  little 
cayenne.  Parboil  about  two  ounces  new  kidney  pota- 
toes, previously  scraped ;  drain  and  fry  them  in  butter 
a  nice  light  yellow ;  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and 
when  done  sprinkle  with  a  little  chopped  parsley.  Put 
a  little  butter  in  a  saute-pan  ;  when  hot,  add  the  tour- 
nedos ;  let  them  brown  one  side,  then  turn  and  let 
brown  the  other  side,  over  a  quick  fire  ;  now  season  with 
pepper  and  salt,  dish  up  each  on  a  crouton  of  bread, 
place  them  on  a  dish,  put  the  potatoes  round  the  tour- 
nedos in  rows ;  put  a  dessert -spoonful  of  the  prepared 
butter  over  the  top  of  each,  leaving  a  little  space  in  the 
centre  for  a  few  drops  of  dissolved  meat  glaze ;  serve 
quickly. 


622  BECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

431.  Filets  Mignons  a  la  Beauflfremont. — 2  lbs. 
fillet  of  beef,  1  egg,  2  oz.  fresh  butter,  fresh  bread- 
crumbs, ^  lb.  macaroni,  1  oz.  grated  cheese,  3  truffles, 
2  oz.  meat  glaze,  1  pint  tomato  sauce,  1  gill  Madere 
sauce,  pepper,  and  salt. 

Cut  about  eight  small  slices  from  the  fillet,  trim 
them  neatly,  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  dip  in  beaten 
egg,  and  crumb  them.  Melt  the  butter  in  a  saute-pan  ; 
when  hot,  put  in  the  fillets  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  for 
about  fifteen  minutes ;  turn  them  occasionally.  Have 
ready  some  macaroni  blanched  in  salted  water,  let 
them  boil  in  a  little  stock  until  tender,  and  finish  with 
tomato  sauce  and  grated  cheese.  Dress  the  fillets  en 
couronne  on  a  round  dish  ;  place  the  macaroni  in  the 
centre.  Cut  the  truffles  into  thin  strips,  sprinkle  over 
the  macaroni,  reduce  the  remainder  of  tomato  sauce 
with  the  Madere  sauce  and  meat  glaze,  and  serve 
with  the  dish. 

432.  Filets  Mignons  a  la  Dauphin e. — 2 J  lbs.  fillet 
of  beef,  1  small  onion,  1  small  carrot,  1  bouquet  of 
herbs,  1  glass  Chablis,  \  gill  oil,  1|  oz.  butter,  pepper 
and  salt,  larding  bacon,  f  lb.  potato  puree,  2  oz. 
cooked  chicken  meat,  1  traffle,  a  handful  cooked  spinach, 
1  gill  tomato  sauce,  6  potato  croquets  {a  la  Dauphine), 
1  glass  sherry,  a  handful  cooked  rice,  6  small  artichoke 
bottoms. 

Trim  the  fillet  and  cut  into  eight  neatly-shaped 
pieces,  flatten  a  little  wdth  the  cutlet  bat,  insert  in  each 
a  few^  strips  of  larding  bacon,  season  with  pepper  and 
salt.  Lay  them  on  a  bed  of  vegetables  (carrot  and 
onion  sliced),  and  the  herbs,  moisten  with  Chablis  wine 
and  oil,  let  remain  to  soak  for  about  one  hour  or  more. 
Cook  the  rice  in  a  little  stock,  season  and  keep  till 
wanted ;  prepare  the  potato  croquets,  egg,  crumb,  and 
fry  (keep  hot).  Drain  the  fillets  on  a  cloth,  fry  in 
butter  over  a  quick  fire  for  about  six  minutes  (they 
must  be  underdone,  unless  specially  desired  well  done). 
Take  up  the  fillets,  keep  hot,  pour  off  the  butter  from 
the  pan,  add  the  sherry  and  reduce  to  half,  then  add 


ENTREES    (hot). 


523 


the  tomato  sauce  and  cook  a  few  minutes.  Chop  the 
chicken  meat  and  truffle,  moisten  with  a  little  sauce, 
season  to  taste,  and  fill  the  artichoke  bottoms  with  this 

LAMB   (DE  L'AGNEAU). 


j,i^^ Legs  (Gigots). 

I.  /^ 
[i 

KiJJro   Kidneys 

il'^IlM  (Rognous) 

Hinfl-quarters 
(Quartier) 

Fore-quarter 
(Devant 
d'Agueau 

''™^  Neck 

(Ootelles) 

Shoulders 
(Epaules) 


mixture.  Cover  the  surface  well  with  cooked  spinach, 
previously  rubbed  through  a  sieve,  and  seasoned ;  place 
a  tiny  piece  of  butter  on  each  and  put  in  the  oven  for 
about  ten  minutes  to  get  hot  through.     Dress  the  rice 


524  RECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

and  bed  on  a  dish  ;  dish  up  the  fillets  on  this.  Garnish 
the  sides  alternately  with  a  stuffed  artichoke  and  a 
potato  croquet,  pour  a  little  sauce  round  the  dish,  and 
serve  the  remainder  in  a  sauce-boat. 

433.  Canolettes  a  la  Montglas.  —  6  oz.  puff-paste 
trimming,  1  lamb's  sweetbread,  1  small  stick  celery, 
1  gill  white  sauce  (AUemande  or  bechamel),  2  mush- 
rooms, 1  truffle,  1  egg,  breadcrumbs,  fried  parsley, 
pepper  and  salt. 

Roll  out  the  paste,  cut  it  into  strips,  butter  the 
exterior  of  some  cornet  tins,  roll  the  strips  of  paste 
round  each  tin,  so  that  the  strip  of  paste  overlaps  half 
the  other  at  each  turn,  keep  all  of  even  size.  Egg  over 
the  surface,  sprinkle  with  breadcrumbs,  and  bake  on  a 
greased  baking-tin  (laid  flat)  in  a  hot  oven.  Blanch 
and  cook  the  sweetbread  and  celery,  cut  into  small  dice, 
warm  up  in  l^he  sauce,  season  to  taste  ;  add  the  mush- 
rooms and  truffles,  also  cut  in  dice.  Remove  the  paste- 
crust  from  the  tins  as  soon  as  baked,  fill  them  with  the 
above  mixture,  place  a  star  of  truffle  in  the  centre  of 
each,  dish  them  neatly  on  a  dish  with  folded  napkin, 
pointed  ends  inwards,  put  a  handful  of  fried  parsley  in 
the  centre,  and  serve. 

434.  Cotelettes  d'Agneau  a  la  Cahors. — 8  to  10  lamb 
cutlets  (neatly  pared),  1  oz.  butter,  2  shallots,  3  truffles, 
1  tablespoonful  meat  glaze,  ^  gill  sherry,  teaspoon- 
ful  chopped  parsley,  2  yolks  of  eggs,  1  whole  egg, 
1  gill  tomato  sauce,  seasoning,  breadcrumbs,  clarified 
butter. 

Peel  and  chop  finely  the  shallots,  fry  them  a  light 
colour  in  1  oz.  butter,  add  the  truffles  finely  chopped, 
moisten  with  the  sherry,  cover  and  let  it  reduce  well. 
Stir  in  the  meat  glaze  and  parsley,  bind  with  the  yolks 
of  eggs,  stir  until  it  thickens,  and  put  in  a  forcing-bag. 
Make  an  incision  on  one  side  of  each  cutlet  through  the 
whole  of  the  width,  but  without  cutting  the  sides  ;  fill 
the  inside  with  the  above  mixture,  season  with  pepper 
and  salt,  dip  in  beaten  egg  and  breadcrumbs ;  repeat 
this  again.      Fry   slowly   in   clarified  butter   a  golden 


ENTREES    (hot).  525 

colour,  drain  on  a  cloth,  dish  up,  pour  the  tomato  sauce, 
previously  heated,  round  the  dish,  and  serve. 

435.  Cotelettes  d'Agneau  a  la  Bonaparte. — 8  lamb 
cutlets,  1  oz.  of  butter,  a  small  onion,  ^  carrot,  a  bayleaf , 
a  bouquet  of  parsley,  1^  pint  of  white  stock,  3  table- 
spoonfuls  of  creme  de  riz,  |  oz.  meat  glaze,  J  glass 
champagne,  pepper,  and  salt,  mashed  spinach  for  gar- 
nish, a  gill  of  tomato  sauce,  No.  202. 

Trim  the  cutlets  neatly,  put  them  in  a  braisiere  or 
saute-pan  with  the  butter,  fry  a  little  on  both  sides  and 
add  sliced  onion,  sliced  carrot,  bayleaf,  and  parsley, 
season  with  pepper  and  salt.  Moisten  with  the  cham- 
pagne or  Chablis  wine  and  about  a  gill  of  stock,  cover 
with  a  buttered  paper  and  braise  in  a  hot  oven  for  about 
twenty  minutes.  Mix  the  creme  de  riz  with  a  little  cold 
stock,  boil  up  a  pint  of  the  stock  in  a  small  saucepan. 
Mix  both  together  and  stir  until  it  boils  ;  season  to  taste. 
Let  it  simmer  for  a  few  minutes,  then  pour  into  little 
cutlet  moulds  slightly  greased,  or  in  one  round  mould. 
Stand  it  in  a  cool  place  to  set.  Turn  out  and  put  a 
cutlet  on  each  of  these  shapes.  If  the  round  mould  is 
used  it  should  be  turned  out,  the  rice  shape  cut  into 
slices,  and  trimmed  into  rounds  the  shape  of  cutlets. 
Dish  the  cutlets  with  a  rice  shape  in  a  circular  row,  and 
keep  warm.  Strain  the  gravy  from  the  cutlets,  take  off 
the  fat,  put  it  in  a  saucepan  with  the  meat  glaze,  and  let 
it  reduce  until  fit  to  glaze  over  the  cutlets.  Have  ready 
a  puree  of  spinach  nicely  flavoured,  put  it  in  the  centre 
of  the  cutlets,  sauce  round  with  tomato  sauce,  and  serve. 
The  tomato  sauce  should  be  allowed  to  boil  up  in  the 
saute-pan  after  the  gravy  is  strained  off,  in  order  to 
impart  the  essence  to  the  sauce. 

436.  Cotelettes  d'Agneau  a  la  Lion  d'Or. — 8  nice 
lamb  cutlets — centre  cut  of  neck,  1  small  foie  gras  pate, 

1  piece  lamb  leaf  fat,  6  oz.  veal  forcemeat,  3  mushrooms, 

2  oz.   butter,  seasoning,  breadcrumbs,   soubise   sauce, 
No.  180,  and  demi-glace.  No.  185. 

Trim  and  pare  the  cutlets,  slit  the  side  of  each  to 
the  bone,  but  without  parting.     Prepare  a  puree  with 


526  EECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

the  foie  gras,  and  fill  the  openings  made  Vfith.  this ; 
insert  a  slice  of  truflfle  and  mushroom  here  and  there  ; 
close  up  and  fry  the  cutlets  a  little  in  butter.  Season 
the  raw  forcemeat,  mix  with  remainder  of  foie  gras 
puree,  truffles,  and  mushrooms  finely  chopped.  Cover 
each  cutlet  completely  with  this  forcemeat,  wrap  up  in 
thin  leaf  fat  or  pig-caul,  egg,  crumb,  and  fry  very  care- 
fully in  a  saute-pan  containing  enough  clarified  butter 
or  lard  to  cover  them.  When  done,  drain,  dish  up  in 
a  circle,  fasten  frills  on  bones,  put  soubise  sauce  in  the 
centre,  and  serve  demi-glace  round  the  base  of  the  dish. 

437.  Queues  d'Agneau  a  la  Russe. — 2  or  3  lambs' tails, 
1  glass  Chablis  wine,  1|  pint  stock,  1  clove  of  garlic,  1 
bayleaf,  1  sprig  of  thyme  and  1  of  basil,  2  cloves,  1 
small  bunch  of  parsley,  pepper,  salt,  frying  batter  and 
frying  fat. 

Wipe  the  tails  with  a  damp  cloth,  cut  them  into 
small  joints,  blanch  and  drain.  Cook  until  tender  in 
the  stock  and  a  little  water,  adding  the  wme,  savoury 
herbs,  parsley,  &c.  Season  to  taste,  allow  them  to  cool 
in  the  stock.  Chop  a  little  parsley  and  mix  with  the 
frying  batter,  drain  the  pieces  of  tail  in  a  cloth,  dip 
them  in  the  prepared  batter,  and  fry  a  golden  colour  in 
hot  fat  or  lard.  Drain,  dish  up,  garnish  with  fried 
parsley,  and  serve  with  hot  tomato  sauce. 

438.  Carbonades  de  Mouton  a  la  Nantaise. — 3  or  4  lbs. 
best  end  of  neck  of  mutton  or  a  piece  of  loin,  1  carrot, 
1  turnip,  1  small  onion,  1  bouquet  garni,  No.  3,  J  pint 
Espagnole  sauce,  No.  184,  2  oz.  butter,  1  glass  port, 
24  small  stuffed  onions,  ^  pint  green  peas  (cooked),  salt, 
pepper,  larding  bacon. 

Bone  the  meat,  pare  off  all  the  fat,  cut  into  quarter- 
inch-thick  slices,  flatten  each  a  little,  trim,  and  lard 
with  strips  of  fat  bacon.  Prepare  the  vegetables,  cut 
carrot,  turnip,  and  onion  into  slices,  and  put  in  a  saute- 
pan  with  the  butter  and  bouquet ;  season  and  broil  a 
few  minutes  over  a  quick  fire,  put  in  the  larded  fillets,  let 
brown  slightly  on  both  sides ;  drain  off  the  fat,  add  |  pint 
of  sauce  and  a  glass  of  port  wine,  cover  and  cook  slowly 


ENTREES    (hot). 


527 


MUTTON  (DU  MOUTON). 


Leg  (Gigot) 


Kernel  (Xoix) 


Loin  (Longe^ 
FiUet  (Filet) 

Neck  (best  end) 
Neck  (Carre) 

Breast  (Poitrine) 
Shoulder  (ifipaule) 


Loin 


Neck  (best  end) 


Neck  (scrag) 


528  RECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

in  the  oven  for  20  minutes ;  take  up  the  fillets,  drain 
and  dish  up  in  a  row  on  a  small  border  of  mashed  pota- 
toes or  puree  of  peas.  Free  the  sauce  from  its  fat, 
strain  into  a  small  stewpan,  add  the  remainder  of 
Espagnole,  boil  up  and  moisten  the  stuffed  onions, 
previously  prepared,  with  this  sauce.  Dress  the  latter 
with  the  green  peas  in  alternate  rows  round  the  base  of 
the  dish.  Sauce  over  a  little,  and  serve  the  remainder 
of  the  sauce  in  a  sauce-boat. 

439.  Cotelettes  de  Mouton  a  la  Pompadour. — 6  or  8 
neatly  pared  mutton  cutlets,  2oz.  butter,  1|  gill  soubise 
sauce,  No.  180,  1  gill  Pompadour  sauce.  No.  204,  f  pint 
macedoine  vegetables,  1  egg,  breadcrumbs,  frying  fat, 
pepper  and  salt. 

Season  the  cutlets  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  fry 
slightly  in  butter ;  drain  and  place  between  two  boards 
to  press.  Coat  both  sides  of  the  cutlets  with  well-reduced 
cold  soubise  sauce.  Egg  and  crumb  twice.  Fry  slowly 
in  clarified  fat  or  butter,  drain  and  dish  up  in  a  circle. 
Heat  up  the  macedoine  of  vegetable  with  a  little  Pompa- 
dour sauce,  season,  put  in  the  centre  of  the  dish  and 
serve.  Lamb  or  pork  cutlets  are  served  in  the  same 
style. 

440.  Cotelettes  de  Mouton  an  Naturel. — Procure 
the  best  end  of  a  neck  of  mutton,  saw  off  the  upper  part 
of  the  rib-bones,  so  as  to  leave  the  bones  of  the  cutlets 
about  3  inches  long.  Saw  oft'  the  spine-bone,  close  to 
the  end  of  the  ribs,  cut  or  trim  off  the  flat  bones  adher- 
ing to  the  thick  end  of  the  neck,  cut  slantwise  into 
cutlets.  Flatten  each  a  little  and  pare  neatly,  and  with- 
out waste;  cut  off  the  skin  on  the  side  of  each  bone,  and 
scrape  the  ends  of  the  bones ;  season  with  pepper  and 
salt,  brush  over  with  oiled  butter,  and  grill ;  or  melt  about 
an  ounce  of  butter  in  a  saute-pan,  put  in  the  cutlets 
when  hot,  and  broil  on  both  sides  over  a  brisk  fire.  Dish 
up  and  serve  with  plain  gravy. 

441.  Cotelettes  de  Mouton  a  la  Soubise. — Proceed 
to  cook  the  cutlets  in  the  same  manner  as  in  the  fore- 
gomg  recipe.     Dish  up  in  a  circle  on  a  very  thin  border 


ENTREES    (hot),  529 

of  mashed  potatoes.  Sauce  round  with  demi-glace  or 
brown  sauce  well  reduced.  Put  some  onion  puree  or 
soubise  sauce,  No.  180,  piled  up  in  the  centre,  and 
serve. 

442.  Cotelettes  de  Mouton  a  la  Provencale. — 
Prepare  the  cutlets  as  before,  oil  them  slightly  with 
salad  oil  (huile  de  Provence).  Broil  them  on  one  side 
only,  and  put  them  on  a  dish  to  get  cold.  Season  the 
cutlets  with  pepper  and  salt.  Spread  the  cooked  side 
thickly  with  Puree  a  la  Proven9ale,  No.  180,  cover  with 
a  mixture  of  breadcrumbs  and  grated  Parmesan  cheese. 
Put  1  oz.  butter  in  a  saute-pan ;  when  hot,  lay  in  the 
cutlets  raw  side  downwards,  baste  the  surface  with  oiled 
butter,  and  cook  in  a  hot  oven  for  ten  minutes.  Dish  up 
in  a  circle,  garnish  the  centre  with  small  rounds  of 
potatoes  (pommes  Parisienne),  pour  round  some  demi- 
glace,  and  serve. 

443.  Cotelettes  de  Mouton  a  la  Princesse. — Trim 
ten  to  twelve  small  mutton  cutlets  in  the  usual  way, 
parbroil  them  in  butter,  lay  between  two  baking- sheets 
to  press  ;  when  cold,  cover  one  side  of  them  with  a  thin 
layer  of  chicken  forcemeat,  No.  231,  mixed  with  finely- 
minced  mushrooms  and  truffles;  dip  them  in  stiffly 
reduced  Madere  sauce  ;  set  them  on  the  ice  to  set  the 
sauce  quite  firm  on  the  cutlets ;  dip  them  in  egg  and 
crumbs,  fry  in  clarified  butter,  strain  on  a  cloth.  Dish 
up  in  circular  form,  fill  the  centre  of  the  dish  with 
cooked  asparagus  points  (mixed  with  a  few  fresh  peas  if 
desired),  sauce  round  with  Perigord  sauce,  No.  192,  and 
serve. 

444.  Cotelettes  de  Mouton  a  la  Byron. — Cut,  trim, 
and  flatten  six  or  more  large  mutton  cutlets,  insert  in 
equal  proportion  with  a  larding  needle,  across  the  lean 
part,  some  strips  of  raw  ham  and  larding  bacon.  Put 
the  cutlets  in  a  stewpan  with  the  trimming  (but  no  fat), 
a  small  sliced  carrot,  half  an  onion  stuck  with  a  clove, 
and  a  slice  of  parsley  root  or  celery.  Add  a  quart  of 
mutton  stock,  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  allow 
to  cook  slowly  for  about  an  hour.     When  done  drain 


530  RECHERCHE   COOKERY. 

the  cutlets,  press  them  between  two  boards  and  let  them 
cool.  Add  a  gill  of  Espagnole  sauce,  No.  184,  to  the 
fond,  reduce  well  and  strain.  Add  a  dessert- spoonful  of 
finely  chopped  parsley  and  three  tarragon  leaves  to  the 
sauce,  immerse  the  cutlets  in  this  and  let  cool  again. 
Dip  in  beaten  egg  and  milk,  roll  in  breadcrumbs,  and 
fry  in  hot  fat  or  butter.  Drain  on  a  cloth,  dish  up  in  a 
circle.  Have  ready  a  ragout  of  sheeps'  kidneys,  fill  the 
centre  with  same,  put  a  few  warm  green  peas  on  top, 
fasten  paper  frills  on  the  bones,  and  serve. 

445.  Filets  de  Mouton  a  la  Tyrolienne. — About 
3  lbs.  best  end  of  a  neck  of  mutton,  4  small  even-sized 
tomatoes,  12  button  onions,  1  tablespoonful  of  chopped 
parsley,  1  gill  of  sweet  oil,  |  gill  Orleans  vinegar,  1 
minced  shallot,  1  bay  leaf,  a  clove  of  garlic,  salt,  2  oz. 
ham,  1  gill  demi-glace  sauce.  No.  164,  1  gill  stock,  1  oz. 
butter,  1  egg,  breadcrumbs,  frying  fat. 

Remove  the  meat  from  the  bones  of  the  neck  of 
mutton,  cut  it  into  eight  nice  fillets.  Trim  off  some  of 
the  fat  and  lay  them  in  a  marinade  for  12  hours.  The 
marinade  in  this  case  consists  of  the  oil,  vinegar,  shallot, 
bay  leaf,  garlic,  coarsely  chopped  parsley,  and  salt.  It 
is  advisable  to  turn  the  fillets  from  time  to  time.  Cut 
the  tomatoes  in  halves  and  squeeze  out  a  little  of  the 
pulp.  Peel  the  button  onions,  fry  them  a  golden  colour 
in  the  butter.  When  this  is  done  pour  off  the  butter. 
Add  the  stock,  and  let  come  to  the  boil  quickly ;  skim 
well,  and  braise  in  the  oven  until  done  ;  the  stock  should, 
by  the  time  the  onions  are  done,  be  reduced  so  as  to  glaze 
them  completely.  Put  the  butter  left  from  the  onions 
in  a  saute-pan,  place  in  the  tomatoes,  season  with 
pepper  and  salt,  and  fry  gently  for  a  few  minutes.  Take 
out  the  fillets  fr'om  the  marinade,  wipe  dry  with  a  cloth, 
egg  and  crumb  them,  and  fry  in  hot  fat  to  a  golden 
brown.  They  must  cook  slowly,  else  they  will  not  be 
done  by  the  time  they  are  of  the  desired  colour.  Range 
the  fillets  neatly  in  a  row  in  the  centre  of  an  oblong 
dish.  Have  ready  the  ham  finely  chopped  and  warmed 
in  a  little  brown  sauce,  just  sufficient  to  moisten.     Put 


ENTREES    (hot).  531 

a  dessert-spoonful  of  the  ham  in  each  half  of  tomato, 
place  a  button  onion  on  top  of  each.  Pour  the  demi- 
glace  sauce  round  the  dish  and  serve.  The  demi-glace 
should  be  well  reduced,  and  have  a  tablespoonful  of  the 
marinade  incorporated  during  the  process  of  reducing. 

446.  Rognons  de  Mouton  a  la  Chinoise. — Six  small 
sheeps'  kidneys,  six  yolks  of  eggs,  2  oz.  butter,  f  pint 
cooked  asparagus  points,  2  tablespoonfuls  bechamel  or 
Veloute  sauce,  chopped  parsley,   1   gill  tomato  sauce, 

1  gill  of  oil,  pepper  and  salt. 

Skin  and  wipe  the  kidneys.  Split  each  without 
dividing  entirely,  and  fasten  on  skewers.  Season  with 
pepper  and  salt.  Melt  1  oz.  of  butter,  and  butter  the 
kidneys  thoroughly  on  both  sides.  Broil  them  over  a 
clear  fire  from  six  to  eight  minutes.  In  the  meantime 
put  the  remainder  of  the  butter  in  a  saute-pan  ;  when 
hot,  put  in  the  asparagus  points,  toss  over  the  fire  till 
hot,  moisten  with  the  white  sauce.  Add  a  little  pepper, 
salt,  and  the  chopped  parsley.  Fry  the  yolks  of  eggs 
separately  in  hot  oil  and  strain.  Take  up  the  kidneys, 
put  a  tablespoonful  of  asparagus  points  in  the  centre  of 
each,  place  the  fried  yolks  on  top,  dish  up,  pour  round 
some  hot  tomato  sauce,  No.  202,  and  serve. 

447.  Petites  Timbales  a  la  Meridonlae  (Little 
Timbales  Meridonale  Style). — |  lb.  lean  mutton  fillet, 

2  tablespoonfuls  Espagnole  sauce,  1  tablespoonful 
sherry  or  Madeira,  1  tablespoonful  cream,  1  oz.  butter, 
2  eggs,  10  stuffed  Spanish  olives,  ^  gill  well-reduced 
tomato  sauce,  1  gill  demi-glace  sauce,  pepper,  salt, 
nutmeg. 

Cut  the  meat  into  small  pieces  and  pound  in  a 
mortar  until  smooth.  Add  the  Espagnole  sauce,  wine, 
cream,  |  oz.  butter,  and  the  eggs,  one  at  a  time,  season 
to  taste,  mix  well,  and  rub  through  a  sieve.  Butter 
eight  to  ten  small  timbale  or  dariole  moulds,  fill  them 
with  this  preparation,  leaving  a  small  hollow  in  the 
centre  of  each,  in  which  place  about  a  dessert-spoonful 
of  reduced  tomato  sauce  and  an  olive  stuffed  with  force- 
meat ;  cover  well  with  forcemeat,  and  place  the  moulds 

Si 


632 


EECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

PORK  (DU   PORC).  . 


Tail 


Loin  (Longe) 


Neck  (Carr6) 


Neck  (Coir) 


Hind  Knuckle 

Leg— Ham 
(Jambon) 

Kernel  (Casi) 


Leaf  lard  (Panne) 


Fillet  (FUet) 


Breast  (Poitrine) 


Shoulder 
(Epaule) 


Fore  Knuckle 
Chine  (EcMu^e) 


ENTREES    (hot).  j5S3 

in  a  saute-pan  half  filled  with  boiling  water.  Let  it 
come  to  a  boil,  then  cover  with  an  oiled  paper,  and 
finish  cooking  in  a  quick  oven  for  about  twenty  minutes. 
Unmould,  dish  up,  and  sauce  over  with  hot  demi-glace, 
No.  185- 

448.  Filets  de  Pore  a  la  Perigueux.— Bone  a  small 
neck  of  pork,  trim  off  all  the  fat,  and  lard  one  side 
with  strips  of  fat  bacon.  Place  it  in  a  deep  saute-pan, 
on  a  bed  of  sliced  carrot,  onion,  and  bouquet  garni, 
season  with  pepper  and  salt,  moisten  with  a  glass  of 
sherry  and  a  gill  of  brown  stock.  Let  it  come  to  the  boil, 
and  finish  cooking  in  a  moderate  oven ;  baste  well  from 
time  to  time.  When  done,  take  up,  skim  the  liquor  and 
strain  into  a  small  stewpan,  add  about  three-quarters 
of  a  pint  of  Perigueux  sauce,  No.  192,  boil  up,  and  let 
simmer  for  a  few  minutes.  Dish  up  the  fillets  (left 
whole,  or  cut  into  slices  about  ^-inch  thick),  pour 
over  some  sauce,  and  serve  the  remainder  separately. 
A  border  of  mashed  potatoes  brushed  over  with  egg, 
and  baked  in  the  oven,  will  serve  well  as  a  base  for  the 
fillets,  and  greatly  improves  the  appearance  of  the  dish. 

449.  Cotelettes  de  Pore  a  la  Robert. — Cut  eight  to 
nine  small  pork  cutlets  from  the  best  end  of  the  neck 
of  pork.  Trim  and  pare  neatly,  leaving  about  half  an 
inch  of  fat  round  each  cutlet.  Put  the  cutlets  in  a 
deep  dish,  season  with  pepper  and  salt  and  chopped 
parsley,  pour  over  two  tablespoonfuls  sweet  oil,  allow 
them  to  remain  in  soak  for  half  an  hour,  turn  fre- 
quently. Drain,  and  broil  over  a  clear  fire.  They 
should  be  well  done,  and  will  take  from  fifteen  to 
eighteen  minutes.  Dish  up,  and  serve  with  Sauce 
Eobert,  No.  189. 

450.  Cotelettes  de  Pore  a  la  Soubise. — Prepare  the 
cutlets  in  the  same  manner  as  the  foregoing,  broil  them 
with  a  little  fresh  butter  in  a  saute-pan,  or  on  the  grid- 
iron. Dish  up  on  a  border  of  mashed  potatoes,  put  a 
well-reduced  soubise  puree,  or  sauce.  No.  180,  in  the 
centre,  and  serve  Sauce  Demi-glace,  No.  185,  round  the 
base  of  the  dish.     A  few  drops  of  liquid  meat-glaze    or 


534  RECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

Liebig  extract,  put  over  the  soubise  just  before  serving, 
v,'i\\  be  found  an  improvement. 

451.  Pieds  de  Pore  a  la  Duxelles. — Procure  two 
pairs  of  pickled  pigs'  feet,  braise  them  in  richly- 
flavoured  stock  until  tender.  When  done  take  up, 
remove  the  bones,  and  cut  each  foot  in  two,  length- 
wise. Have  ready  some  duxelles  puree.  No.  235  ;  spread 
over  the  inside  of  each  piece  with  a  thick  layer  of  this. 
When  set,  cut  each  in  two,  egg  and  crumb  twice,  and 
fry  m  clarified  butter  a  golden  colour.  Drain  on  a 
paper,  or  cloth.  Dish  up  e7i  couronne,  fill  up  the 
centre  with  Duxelles  puree  and  a  few  heads  of  mush- 
rooms tossed  in  butter,  garnish  with  crisp  parsley,  and 
serve  with  Sauce  Poivrade,  No.  211. 

452.  Medallions  de  Sanglier  a  la  Russe.  —  Take 
about  two  pounds  of  lean  wild  boar  (loin  or  leg  is  best). 
Cut  from  them  some  slices  about  ^-inch  thick,  flatten 
these  a  little  with  a  bat,  and  shape  them  into  neat 
rounds.  Place  them  m  a  shallow  earthenware  dish, 
sprmkle  over  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of  olive  oil,  two 
of  marinade  or  vinegar,  salt,  pepper,  a  chopped  shallot, 
and  a  dessert-spoonful  of  chopped  parlsey.  Let  them 
lay  for  two  hours,  drain  and  place  them  in  a  buttered 
saute-pan,  sprinkle  vdih  a  little  sherry  and  a  pinch  of 
cayenne,  cover  ^^dth  a  buttered  paper,  and  cook  in  the 
oven  for  about  fifteen  minutes.  Take  up  and  glaze,  place 
them  on  a  dish  on  some  timbales  of  the  same  size,  lay 
a  slice  of  hard-boiled  egg  on  top  of  each,  sauce  over 
with  Sauce  Supreme,  No.  175.  Sprinkle  with  a  few 
drops  of  dissolved  glaze,  and  garnish  with  small  heaps  of 
grated  horseradish  and  chopped  ham.  To  prepare  the 
rice  timbales  :  Blanch  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  Patna 
rice,  drain,  put  two  ounces  of  butter  in  a  stewpan,  add 
one  finely  chopped  shallot,  fry  a  little  and  add  rice. 
Stir  a  few  minutes  over  the  fire,  then  moisten  with  a 
pint  of  white  stock,  and  let  it  simmer  until  done.  Stir 
occasionally,  and  add  more  stock  if  necessary.  Season 
to  taste.  Finish  with  one  ounce  of  grated  cheese  and  one 
ounce  of  finely  chopped  cooked  ham.  The  moisture  must 


ENTREES    (hot).  535 

be  quite  absorbed  in  the  rice  before  it  can  be  used  for 
dishing  up.  Butter  some  small  flat  moulds  the  size 
required,  fill  up  quickly  with  the  rice,  and  turn  out 
immediately  on  the  dish. 

453.  Poulet  Saute  a  la  Plombiere. — Cut  up  into 
neat  joints  two  tender  chickens  ;  cut  into  small  dice  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  streaky  bacon.  Dissolve  two 
ounces  of  butter  in  a  saute-pan,  add  the  bacon,  and  fry 
a  little ;  now  add  the  pieces  of  chicken,  together  with 
two  finely-chopped  shallots.  Allow  the  chicken  to  fry 
over  a  brisk  fire  for  about  five  minutes,  until  they  have 
acquired  a  nice  light-brown  colour  on  both  sides.  Mix 
a  tablespoonful  of  flour,  a  tablespoonful  of  mild  curry 
powder,  and  a  dessert-spoonful  of  finely-desiccated  un- 
sweetened cocoanut.  Sprinkle  this  over  the  pieces 
of  chicken,  stir  well  over  the  fire,  moisten  with  a 
glass  of  white  wine,  a  tablespoonful  of  brandy,  and 
rather  more  than  a  pint  of  white  stock  or  water ;  add 
also  a  small  bunch  of  parsley  and  half  a  bayleaf.  Bring 
it  gently  to  the  boil,  season  with  pepper,  salt,  and  a  very 
little  grated  nutmeg,  add  also  a  teaspoonful  of  red- cur- 
rant jelly  and  the  juice  of  half  a  sour  orange.  Let  it 
simmer  slowly  for  about  thirty  to  forty  minutes.  Skim 
ofl'  the  fat,  remove  the  herbs,  and  if  too  thick  add  a 
little  more  stock  or  water.  Have  ready  sufficient  plain 
boiled  rice  to  make  a  border.  Dress  the  pieces  of 
chicken  neatly  in  the  centre  of  the  border,  together  with 
the  garniture  and  sauce.  Have  ready  the  thin  rind  of  half 
an  orange  finely  shred,  and  warmed;  strew  same  over 
the  centre,  garnish  with  a  few  fleurons  of  puff-paste, 
and  serve. 

454.  Poulet  Saute  a  la  Marengo.  —  Cut  up  two 
tender  chickens  into  neat  joints  ;  put  a  gill  of  sweet  oil  in 
a  large  sautoir ;  when  hot,  place  the  chickens  in  same  on 
the  fire  and  allow  it  to  fry  over  a  quick  fire,  with  the  fol- 
lowing seasoning  :  one  bayleaf,  a  sprig  of  thyme,  a  clove, 
a  small  shallot,  salt,  a  little  cayenne,  and  grated  nutmeg. 
When  the  pieces  are  slightly  brown  on  both  sides,  re- 
move the  bayleaf,  thyme,  clove,  and  shallot,  pour  off 


536  RECHERCHE   COOKERY. 

part  of  the  oil,  add  a  dessert-spoonful  of  finely-chopped 
shallot,  and  a  clove  of  bruised  garlic  ;  allow  it  to  fry 
a  few  minutes  longer,  moisten  with  half  a  gill  of  good 
stock  and  one  pint  of  Espagnole  and  tomato  sauce  in 
equal  parts,  one  glass  of  sherry,  and  half  a  glass  of 
brandy ;  also  six  large  sliced  mushrooms.  Let  all  simmer 
for  twenty  minutes  (covered).  Fry  in  very  hot  sweet  oil 
as  many  eggs  as  may  be  required  (one  to  each  person), 
strain  them  on  a  cloth,  dish  up  the  chickens  in  a  pyra- 
midal form,  sauce  well,  place  the  eggs  round  the  dish, 
garnish  with  fried  glazed  bread  croiitons,  and  serve. 

455.  Poulet  Saute  a  la  Chasseur. — 1  fat  chicken  or 
fowl,  ^  oz.  butter,  ^  gill  salad  oil,  1  glass  sherry,  1  small 
onion,  2  oz.  raw  ham,  6  oz.  rice,  1  gill  salmi  or  game 
sauce.  No.  189,  ^  pint  Espagnole  sauce.  No.  184, 
10  preserved  mushrooms,  pepper,  salt,  and  lemon 
juice. 

Draw,  singe,  and  cut  the  fowl  into  neat  joints.  Put 
the  oil  and  butter  in  a  saute -pan  ;  when  hot,  put  in  the 
pieces  of  chicken,  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  fry 
a  light  brown  over  a  quick  fire ;  add  the  onion,  finely 
chopped,  and  the  ham,  cut  into  slices  or  squares.  Fry 
a  few  minutes  longer,  drain  off  the  fat,  add  the  sherry 
and  Espagnole  sauce,  and  let  simmer  slowly  for  about 
half-an-hour.  Wash  the  rice,  blanch  it  in  slightly 
salted  water,  drain  and  cook  till  tender  with  a  little 
stock  and  the  game  sauce  ;  season  with  pepper  and 
salt.  Put  the  rice  in  a  buttered  plain-border  mould, 
pack  tightly,  and  turn  out  on  a  hot  dish.  Chop  the 
mushrooms  finely,  put  with  the  chicken,  add  a  few 
drops  of  lemon  juice,  cook  a  few  minutes  longer.  Dish 
up  the  chicken  in  the  centre  of  the  rice,  slip  a  little 
cutlet  frill  on  each  end  of  the  legs  before  the  sauce  and 
garnish  are  added,  and  serve. 

456.  Poulet  Saute  a  la  Carnot. — 1  chicken,  1  oz. 
butter,  1  shallot,  1  glass  sherry,  1  gill  Espagnole  sauce, 
1  gill  tomato  sauce,  about  ^  lb.  short-crust  paste,  ^  oz. 
grated  cheese,  4  oz.  cooked  game  or  beef,  1  oz.  ham, 
i  oz.  butter,  1  tablespoonful  well-reduced    bechamel. 


ENTREES    (hot).  537 

2  yolks  of  eggs,  1  hard-boiled  egg,  salt,  pepper,  1  truffle, 
a  croiite  of  fried  bread. 

Draw,  wipe,  and  singe  the  chicken,  cut  it  into  neat 
joints  (it  should  make  twelve  nice  pieces),  melt  the 
butter  in  a  saute-pan  ;  when  hot,  put  in  the  pieces,  season 
with  pepper  and  salt,  and  fry  a  golden  colour  over  a 
brisk  fire.  Add  the  shallot,  finely  chopped,  at  the  last 
moment,  so  as  to  blend  a  little ;  now  add  the  sherry, 
cover  and  reduce  a  little,  then  add  tomato  and  Espagnole 
sauce,  put  on  the  lid,  and  let  simmer  gently  for  about 
forty  minutes.  Eoll  out  the  paste,  butter  six  or  more 
little  dariole  moulds  and  line  them  wath  the  paste ;  line 
the  inside  with  greased  paper,  fill  them  up  with  raw 
rice  or  dried  peas,  and  bake  in  a  moderately-heated  oven 
for  fifteen  minutes,  or  until  they  are  of  a  nice  golden 
colour.  Turn  out  the  rice,  remove  the  paper,  and  fill 
with  the  following  mixture  :  Cut  the  ham  and  game  or 
beef  into  small  pieces,  and  pound  in  a  mortar  till  smooth ; 
add  the  bechamel  sauce,  butter,  and  hard-boiled  yolk  of 
egg,  pound  well,  work  in  the  two  raw  yolks,  season  with 
pepper  and  salt,  and  rub  through  a  wire  sieve.  Cut  the 
truffle  into  slices  and  stamp  out  as  many  rounds  as  you 
have  cases ;  chop  the  trimmings  finely  and  mix  with  the 
above.  The  filling  must  be  done  very  carefully,  and  is 
best  performed  with  a  forcing-bag.  Sprinkle  the  sur- 
face with  grated  cheese  and  bake  for  ten  minutes  in  a 
moderate  oven.  Dish  up  the  chicken  on  a  croute  of 
fried  bread,  fixed  on  a  hot  dish  by  means  of  a  little 
batter  or  white  of  egg.  Skim  off  the  fat  from  the  sauce 
and  strain  over  the  chicken.  Cut  some  slices  of  hard- 
boiled  white  of  egg,  stamp  out  neatly  some  triangle  or 
heart  shapes,  cut  out  the  centre  so  as  to  receive  the 
slices  of  truffle  previously  prepared  ;  place  these  taste- 
fully on  the  baked  cases,  and  dress  them  round  the 
croute.  Garnish  with  a  few  sprigs  of  parsley  and 
serve. 

N.B. — These  croutades  or  timbales  make  a  very 
pretty  second  course  or  savoury  dish,  served  by  them- 
selves or  as  a  garnish. 


588  RECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

457.  Poulet  a  la  Duchesse. — 1  boiled  chicken  (small), 
6  oz.  lean  ham,  12  preserved  mushrooms,  2  French 
gherkins,  f  pint  Veloute  or  bechamel  sauce,  2  yolks  of 
eggs,  1  lb.  potatoes,  1  oz.  butter,  ^  gill  cream,  1  tea- 
spoonful  chopped  parsley,  salt,  pepper,  grated  nutmeg. 

Free  the  chicken  from  skin  and  bone,  and  cut  the 
meat  into  shreds ;  cut  the  ham,  mushrooms,  and 
gherkins  in  a  similar  manner.  Wash,  peel,  and  boil 
the  potatoes,  drain,  and  rub  through  a  fine  sieve;  put 
them  in  a  stewpan,  mix  'with  the  butter  and  cream, 
season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  a  grate  of  nutmeg  ;  when 
thoroughly  hot,  mix  in  the  egg-yolks,  and  keep  hot. 
Bring  the  sauce  to  a  boil,  put  in  the  chicken,  ham,  and 
gherkins,  stir  gently,  and  let  it  get  hot ;  season  with  pepper 
and  salt.  Fill  a  buttered  border-mould  with  the  potato 
puree,  turn  out  on  a  dish,  bake  in  a  hot  oven  for  ten 
minutes.  Serve  the  chicken,  &c.,  in  the  centre,  and 
sprinkle  over  a  little  chopped  parsley. 

458.  Poulet  Frit  a  la  Tyrolienne. — 1  tender  chicken, 
1  whole  egg  and  1  yolk  of  egg,  2  oz.  butter,  1  teaspoon- 
ful  chopped  parsley,  pepper  and  salt,  breadcrumbs, 
clarified  butter  or  lard,  tomato  sauce. 

Draw,  singe,  and  wipe  the  chicken,  and  cut  it  into 
small  joints.  Beat  up  the  eggs,  melt  the  butter,  and 
mix  both  together,  add  the  chopped  parsley,  and  sufficient 
pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  Dip  the  pieces  of  chicken  in 
this,  cover  Avith  breadcrumbs ;  when  set,  repeat  this 
operation.  Fry  in  hot  lard  or  butter  a  golden  colour. 
Drain  on  a  cloth,  dish  up  in  a  pyramid  form,  garnish 
with  fried  parsley,  and  serve  with  tomato  sauce.  Unless 
the  chicken  used  be  young  and  tender  and  the  joints  be 
cut  small,  this  dish  will  not  be  a  success. 

Cold  pieces  of  fowl  or  game  can  be  served  in  the 
same  way,  but  should  be  skinned  before  being  crumbed. 

459.  Poulet  a  la  Hongroise. — 1  fat  tender  chicken, 
4  oz.  butter,  j  oz.  flour,  |  gill  white  wine,  ^  pint  milk, 
1  dessert-spoonful  chopped  parsley,  1  lemon,  paprika 
pepper,  salt,  nutmeg,  3  oz.  rice,  2  oz.  cooked  ham  or 
tongue,  1  pint  stock. 


ENTREES    (hot).  539 

Cut  the  chicken  into  neat  joints,  the  same  as  for 
poulet  saute,  brown  the  pieces  shghtly  on  both  sides  in 
a  saute-pan,  with  about  2|  oz.  butter.  Season  with 
paprika,  salt,  and  a  pinch  of  nutmeg.  Drain  off  some 
of  the  butter,  sprinkle  over  the  flour,  and  brown  a  little ; 
then  add  the  wine  and  milk  (previously  boiled),  stir  well, 
and  simmer  very  gently  from  20  to  30  minutes.  Add 
the  parsley  last  of  all ;  wash,  blanch,  and  cook  the  rice 
with  stock.  Season  with  nutmeg,  salt,  and  paprika, 
add  remainder  of  butter,  ham,  or  tongue,  cut  into  small 
dice.  Butter  a  border-mould,  fill  up  with  rice  (pack 
firmly),  turn  out  on  a  round  flat  dish.  Dress  the  chicken 
in  the  centre  of  the  border,  strain  the  sauce,  reduce 
again,  add  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  and  finish  with 
a  little  more  butter.  Pour  over  the  chicken,  and 
serve. 

460.  Cuisses  de  Volaille  en  Papillotes  aux 
Epinards. — 4  to  6  raw  chicken  legs,  6  slices  fat  bacon, 
^  pint  stock,  1  gill  white  wine,  1  bayleaf,  thyme,  J  car- 
rot, I  onion,  1  gill  well -reduced  Espagnole  sauce,  No. 
184,  salt,  pepper,  6  heart-shaped  slices  of  cooked  ham, 
spinach  puree. 

Take  out  the  bones  from  the  legs,  leaving  a  portion 
of  leg-bone  (di'um-stick),  season  with  pepper  and  salt. 
Line  a  saute-pan  with  small  pieces  of  bacon,  add  the 
bayleaf  and  a  sprig  of  thyme,  the  carrot  and  onion  sliced ; 
lay  in  this  the  chicken  legs,  moisten  with  the  wine  and 
stock,  and  cook  in  a  brisk  oven  till  tender.  Cut  some 
slices  of  bacon  into  heart-shapes,  and  fry  slightly.  Press 
the  cooked  chicken  legs  a  little,  trim,  and  put  each  on  to 
a  piece  of  buttered  paper  (strong  white  paper  should  be 
used)  previously  cut  out  into  heart-shape.  Lay  a  slice 
of  bacon  on  the  chicken,  spread  over  a  layer  of  spinach 
puree,  and  put  a  slice  of  ham  on  top ;  wrap  the  buttered 
paper  well  round  each  leg  thus  prepared,  twist  it  on  the 
ends  so  as  to  well  fasten  it.  Range  on  a  buttered 
saute-pan  and  bake  for  about  fifteen  minutes.  Dish  up 
and  serve  with  a  sauce  made  as  follows :  Strain  the 
liquor  left  from  the  chicken,  skim  off  the  fat,  put  the 


540  RECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

Espagnole  sauce  with  this,  and  cook  a  few  minutes. 
Season  if  necessary  and  serve. 

N.B. — The  paper  used  for  papillotes  should  be  cut 
large  enough  to  answer  the  purpose  of  wrapping  round 
the  legs.  They  are  sent  to  table  in  the  papers.  A 
cutlet  frill  may  be  put  on  each  bone. 

461.  Medaillons  de  Volaille  a  la  Cussy.— 2  chickens, 
larding  bacon,  4  truffles,  6  small  young  carrots,  12 
mushrooms,  2  oz.  butter,  ^  pint  Supreme  sauce.  No. 
175,  1  white  and  3  yolks  of  eggs,  1  glass  Madeira, 
croutes  of  bread,  a  mirepoix,  No.  11,  pepper  and  salt, 
^  gill  cream. 

Remove  the  fillets  from  the  chickens,  cut  them  in 
two,  and  flatten  and  shape  them  into  rounds.  Lard 
them  with  larding  bacon,  put  in  a  saute-pan  with  1  oz. 
butter,  the  mirepoix,  one  gill  of  chicken  stock,  and  the 
Madeira  wine  ;  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  cover  with 
a  buttered  paper,  and  braise  in  a  slow  oven  for  twenty 
minutes  ;  baste  occasionally.  Have  ready  a  forcemeat 
made  from  the  remaining  chicken  meat,  well  pounded, 
passed  through  a  sieve,  and  mixed  with  the  white  of 
egg,  a  little  whipped  cream,  and  seasoning.  Allow 
the  fillets  to  cool,  trim  them  a  little,  cover  the  surface 
thickly  with  the  forcemeat.  Ornament  each  with  a 
rosette  of  truffles,  range  them  in  a  saute-pan,  and 
poach  in  a  slow  oven  for  twenty  minutes.  The  fillets 
should  be  well  moistened  with  liquor,  and  covered 
with  a  piece  of  buttered  paper.  In  the  meantime, 
have  ready  a  julienne  mixture  of  mushrooms,  truffles, 
and  carrots,  the  latter  being  boiled  in  chicken  stock, 
after  being  cut  into  julienne  strips.  Put  all  into  a 
stewpan  with  an  ounce  of  butter,  saute  well  over  the 
fire,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  moisten  with  a 
small  quantity  of  Supreme  sauce,  dress  the  julienne  in 
the  centre  of  a  dish  in  the  form  of  a  pyramid,  range  the 
medaillons  round,  and  place  on  top.  Sauce  over  with 
a  well-reduced  Supreme  sauce,  in  which  the  essence  of 
the  fillets  has  been  incorporated.  Garnish  round  with 
bread  croutons,  cut  in  heart- shapes,  and  fried  in  butter. 


ENTREES    (hot).  541 

462.  Attriotes  de  Volaille  a  la  Vaudoise. — 10  slices 
of  cooked  ox -tongue,  h  cooked  fowl,  8  muslirooms, 
2  truffles,  1  glass  sherry  wine,  ^  lb.  raw  chicken  or 
game,  8  oz.  fresh  pork,  2  shallots,  1  whole  and  2  yolks 
of  eggs,  parsley,  ^  lemon,  ^  gill  cream,  meat  glaze, 
1  gill  tomato  sauce.  No.  202,  1  gill  Allemande  sauce, 
No.  168,  2  oz.  butter,  salt,  pepper,  aromatic  seasoning, 
pig's  caul.     Mashed  potatoes  for  border. 

Cut  the  tongue  slices  into  even-sized  rounds  or  ovals, 
put  the  trimmings  in  a  mortar,  add  the  raw  chicken  or 
game,  freed  from  skin  and  bone,  and  pound  till  smooth. 
Cut  the  pork  into  slices,  and  pound  likewise  ;  mix  both 
together,  add  a  finely-chopped  shallot,  a  teaspoonful  of 
chopped  parsley,  mix  well,  and  work  in  the  cream  and 
yolks  of  eggs.  Season  w^ith  salt,  pepper,  and  aromatic 
spice.  Put  through  a  fine  sieve,  and  put  in  a  basin. 
Remove  the  skin  and  bones  from  the  cooked  chicken, 
cui  it  into  small  dice,  chop  the  mushrooms  and  truffles 
coarsely,  and  mix  with  the  forcemeat.  Cover  the  round 
slices  of  tongue  completely  with  this  mixture,  and  wrap 
each  in  a  small  piece  of  cleansed  pig's  caul;  dip  them  in 
beaten  white  of  egg.  Heat  up  the  butter  in  a  saute-pan, 
place  in  the  attriotes,  fry  over  the  fire  for  a  few  minutes, 
and  finish  cooking  in  the  oven  for  another  ten  to  fifteen 
minutes.  Have  ready  a  border  of  mashed  potatoes  ; 
ornament  the  sides  prettily  with  a  forcing-bag  and  a 
fancy  pipe  or  tube.  Brush  over  with  yolk  of  egg,  and 
put  in  the  oven  to  brown  a  little.  Dress  the  attriotes 
on  the  border,  brush  over  with  meat  glaze,  and  serve  the 
following  sauce  in  the  centre  and  round  the  dish  :  Chop 
the  remaining  shallot  finely,  fry  in  the  pan  in  which  the 
attriotes  were  cooked,  pour  off  the  fat,  moisten  with  the 
tomato  and  Allemande  sauce,  and  the  sherry ;  let  it 
reduce  a  little,  add  a  teaspoonful  of  meat  glaze  and  a 
teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice,  season  to  taste,  strain,  and 
add  a  teaspoonful  of  chopped  parsley.  The  sauce  is  then 
ready  for  serving. 

463.  Palmettes  de  Volaille  a  la  Gambetta. — 1  lb. 
chicken  (or  veal  forcemeat),   6  eggs,   h  giU  cream,   1 


542  RECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

truffle,  pepper,  salt,  nutmeg,  a  little  clarified  butter, 
tomato  sauce. 

Butter  eight  to  ten  small  round  dariole  moulds,  beat 
up  the  eggs  the  same  as  for  an  omelet,  add  the  cream, 
and  season  with  pepper,  salt,  and  a  pinch  of  nutmeg. 
Divide  this  mixture  equally  into  the  moulds,  and  poach 
slowly  in  the  oven.  Put  the  forcemeat,  previously 
seasoned,  in  one  or  two  well-buttered  flat  moulds,  cover 
with  a  buttered  paper,  and  cook  in  the  oven  for  about 
twenty  minutes.  Let  cool  a  little,  then  stamp  out  as 
many  rounds  as  there  are  moulds,  and  of  the  same  size 
as  the  moulds.  Turn  out  the  egg  moulds,  and  place 
one  on  each  of  the  forcemeat  socles,  put  a  fancifully-cut 
slice  of  truffle  on  top  of  each,  dish  up,  keep  in  the  oven 
till  hot,  and  serve  with  tomato  sauce. 

464.  Cotelettes  Parisiennes  a  I'Ecarlate. — 2  lbs. 
cooked  ox-tongue,  J  lb.  raw  chicken  meat,  2  oz.  cooked 
ham  or  bacon,  2  oz.  suet,  1  teaspoonful  chopped  parsley, 
3  oz.  panade,  No.  9,  2  eggs,  salt,  pepper,  and  cayenne, 
1  gill  demi-glace  and  tomato  sauce,  1  dessert-spoonful 
meat  glaze,  1  oz.  butter. 

Cut  the  tongue  into  8  to  10  slices,  give  them  the  shape 
of  cutlets,  prepare  a  stifl'  forcemeat  mixture  with  the  rem- 
nants of  tongue,  the  chicken,  ham,  suet,  panade,  and  eggs ; 
pound  and  pass  through  a  sieve ;  season  with  pepper  and 
salt,  and  the  chopped  parsley.  Butter  some  small  cutlet- 
moulds,  fill  them  with  the  forcemeat,  and  steam  them  in 
the  oven.  Place  the  tongue  cutlets  in  a  well-buttered 
saute-pan,  add  a  ladleful  of  gravy  or  stock,  let  them  get 
thoroughly  warm,  glaze  them  over  with  dissolved  meat 
glaze,  turn  the  cutlets  from  the  moulds,  dish  up  alter- 
nately a  cutlet  of  tongue  with  a  cutlet  of  forcemeat,  dress 
in  a  circular  form ;  have  ready  the  demi-glace  sauce,  well 
flavoured  with  tomato  sauce ;  pour  the  sauce  in  the  centre 
of  the  dish  and  serve. 

465.  Fricandelles  de  Volaille  a  rAlIemande.— i  lb. 
cooked  chicken  meat  or  any  other  kind  of  poultry,  includ- 
ing a  little  ham  or  tongue,  1  slice  of  onion  chopped  fine, 
1  teaspoonful  of  chopped  parsley,  IJ  oz.  of  butter,  ^  oz. 


ENTREES    (hot).  543 

flour,  2  eggs,  i  gill  of  gravy  or  stock,  salt,  pepper,  and 
nutmeg,  j  pint  of  pancake  batter,  breadcrumbs,  frying 
fat. 

Chop  the  meat  very  fine,  melt  |  oz.  of  butter  in  a 
saucepan ;  when  hot,  add  the  chopped  onion ;  fry  for  three 
minutes,  then  add  the  flour  and  cook  to  a  golden  colour, 
stir  in  the  gravy,  cook  five  minutes,  now  add  the  meat ; 
when  thoroughly  hot,  bind  with  two  yolks  of  eggs,  season 
with  pepper,  salt,  and  a  grate  of  nutmeg ;  when  well 
mixed,  remove  from  the  fire.  Make  4  or  more  pancakes, 
put  them  on  a  paste-board,  spread  the  prepared  meat 
mixture  over  the  pancakes,  roll  up  each  neatly,  let  set,  and 
cut  inio  oblong  pieces  about  2  inches  long.  Beat  up  the 
white  of  an  egg  a  httle,  dip  in  each  piece,  roll  in  bread- 
crumbs ;  when  suflicieAtly  set,  egg  and  crumb  a  second 
time.  Place  the  fricandelles  in  a  wire  basket  and  fry  in 
hot  fat  or  lard  to  a  golden  colour  ;  drain  on  a  cloth,  dish 
up  on  a  folded  napkin  or  dish-paper,  garnish  with  crisp 
parsley,  and  serve. 

Note. — As  an  accompaniment  to  this  dish  a  nicely 
dressed  beetroot  or  lettuce  salad  is  recommended.  In 
order  to  make  a  change,  chicken  may  be  substituted  by 
cold  fish,  or  any  kind  of  meat,  or  scraps  left  over  from 
a  previous  meal. 

466.  Crepinettes  de  Volaille  aux  Truffes. — A  cooked 
chicken  or  some  pieces  left  over,  1  oz.  of  chopped  ham 
or  ^ongue,  2  small  truffles,  2  eggs,  about  a  gill  and  a  half 
of  Veloute  sauce,  |  teaspoonful  salt,  1  saltspoonful 
pepper,  nutmeg,  pig's  caul  or  veal  udder,  breadcrumbs, 
frying  fat,  and  tomato  sauce. 

Eemove  the  meat  from  the  bones,  take  away  the 
skin  and  gristle,  chop  the  meat  finely,  likewise  the  truffles. 
Put  these  together  with  the  ham  in  a  saute-pan,  add  the 
sauce,  season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  a  pinch  of  grated 
nutmeg.  Cook  for  10  minutes,  stir  occasionally,  bind 
\vith  the  yolk  of  one  egg,  and  spread  on  a  dish  to  cool. 
Divide  into  six  or  eight  parts ;  shape  these  oblong,  wrap 
each  in  a  piece  of  veal  udder  or  pig's  caul.  Dip  in  beaten 
egg,  roll  in  breadcrumbs ;    when  set,  egg  and  crumb 


544  RECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

again,  shape  neatly,  and  fry  in  hot  fat.  Drain  on  a 
cloth  or  paper,  dish  up,  garnish  with  fried  parsley,  and 
serve  with  tomato  sauce. 

467.  Ballotine  de  Volaille  a  la  Cardinal. — 1  fat 
chicken  or  pullet,  1  terrine  of  foie-gras  pate.  No.  9  or 
No.  8,  4  slices  of  streaky  bacon,  ^  lb.  of  cooked  ham, 
4  truffles,  1  glass  of  white  wine,  1  bouquet  garni.  No.  3, 
a  mirepoix,  No.  11,  J  lb.  of  veal  forcemeat,  No.  230, 
1  egg,  1  gill  of  rich  veal  broth  (or  chicken-broth  made 
from  the  chicken  bones),  aromatic  seasoning. 

Bone  the  chicken  or  pullet  in  the  ordinary  way,  but 
do  not  remove  the  leg  bones.  Line  with  slices  of  bacon, 
spread  with  a  layer  of  forcemeat,  previously  mixed  with 
a  yolk  of  egg,  introducing  here  and  there  some  thick 
slices  of  truffles  and  slices  of  cooked  ham.  Sprinkle 
with  some  aromatic  seasoning.  Cut  the  foie-gras  into 
slices,  lay  in  between  the  ham  and  truffles,  cover  with 
the  remainder  of  forcemeat.  Take  up  the  two  ends, 
fold  tightly,  and  sew  up  with  string.  Wrap  up  the 
stuffed  chicken  in  a  piece  of  buttered  paper.  Put  the 
prepared  mirepoix.  No.  11,  in  deep  saute-pan  or  brai- 
soire,  fry  a  little,  put  in  the  chicken.  Add  the  bouquet 
garni,  wine  and  stock,  or  broth.  Cook  in  the  oven  for 
about  one  and  a  half  hours  or  more,  according  to  the 
size  of  the  chicken  used.  Baste  well  from  time  to  time. 
When  done,  take  out  the  chicken,  remove  the  paper  and 
string,  cut  up  in  slices  or  dress  it  whole  on  a  hot  dish, 
and  serve  with  Cardinal  sauce.  No.  162. 

468.  Petites  Bouchees  a  la  Reine. — About  1  lb.  of 
feuilletage  paste,  ^  cooked  chicken,  2  oz.  cooked  ham  or 
tongue,  6  mushrooms,  2  truffles,  1  gill  bechamel  or 
AUemande  sauce,  i  gill  cream,  2  yolks  of  eggs,  pepper, 
salt,  nutmeg. 

Roll  out  the  paste  about  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick, 
let  it  rest  in  a  cool  place  for  ten  minutes,  then  stamp 
out,  by  means  of  a  one-and-three-quarter  inch  fluted 
paste-cutter,  eight  to  ten  rounds  ;  lay  them  about  half  an 
inch  apart  on  a  wetted  baking-sheet.  Brush  the  surface 
with  beaten  egg.     Dip  a  smaller  round  plain  cutter  into 


ENTREES    (hot).  545 

hot  water  and  mark  the  surface  of  each  (this  will  form 
the  lids).  Bake  in  a  moderately  sharp  oven  for  fifteen 
or  eighteen  minutes.  Remove  lids,  and  scoop  out  a 
portion  of  the  inside  whilst  hot.  In  the  meantime  pre- 
pare a  salpicon  by  mixing  the  chicken,  ham,  mush- 
rooms, and  truffles.  Put  all  in  a  stewpan  with  the  sauce ; 
when  thoroughly  hot,  add  the  cream,  and  lastly  stir  hi 
the  egg-yolks.  Season  to  taste  with  salt,  pepper,  and  a 
grate  of  nutmeg.  Keep  over  the  fire  to  bind  the  mixture. 
Fill  up  the  cases,  put  on  the  lids,  and  serve. 

469.  Creme  de  Volaille  a  FArgenteuil.— 1  small 
fowl,  3  oz.  panade,  No.  9,  2  eggs,  ^  gill  cream,  25  heads 
of  green  asparagus,  a  handful  of  spinach,  salt,  pepper, 
nutmeg,  ^  oz.  of  butter,  Supreme  sauce.  No.  175. 

Bone  the  fowl,  remove  skin  and  sinews,  and  cut  the 
meat  into  small  shreds,  pound  in  a  mortar,  and  rub 
through  a  sieve.  Return  to  the  mortar,  add  the  panade, 
the  yolk  of  egg,  and  the  cream,  mix  thoroughly  and 
season  to  taste.  Clean  the  asparagus  and  spinach ; 
cook  both  separately  in  salted  water,  rub  the  spinach 
through  a  sieve ;  cut  off  the  soft  portions  of  the  aspa- 
ragus and  pass  through  a  sieve ;  mix  both  purees 
together.  Beat  up  the  whites  of  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth  and 
mix  with  the  forcemeat.  Divide  the  vegetable  puree  in 
two  lots,  add  a  yolk  of  egg  and  some  forcemeat  to  one 
and  rather  more  forcemeat  to  the  other,  so  as  to  give  both 
two  different  shades  of  green,  resembling  asparagus  tops. 
Butter  thoroughly  an  asparagus  mould,  fill  up  with  the 
darker  green  puree,  then  the  lighter  green,  and  lastly 
the  white  forcemeat.  Place  the  mould  in  a  stewpan  con- 
taining some  hot  water,  cover  with  a  buttered  paper,  and 
cook  for  about  one  hour  or  more.  When  done,  turn  out 
on  a  hot  dish.  Pour  some  hot  Supreme  sauce  round  the 
base  of  the  dish,  and  serve. 

The  same  dish  may  be  served  cold,  omitting  the 
Supreme  sauce,  and  adding  a  garniture  of  aspic  jelly. 

470.  Epigrammes  de  Veau  a  la  Jardiniere.  — 
Proceed  the  same  as  No.  492,  substituting  fillet  of  veal 
for  the  pheasant. 


546  RECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

471.  Petites  Timbales  de  Pigeon  a  la  Supreme. — 

Eemove  the  meat  from  two  Bordeaux  pigeons  ;  pound 
it  in  a  mortar  with  a  quarter  of  a  pound  of  dried  beef 
suet  and  two  ounces  of  bacon  cut  into  strips  ;  rub  it 
through  a  ware  sieve  ;  return  it  to  the  mortar ;  add  two 
ounces  of  butter,  three  chopped  mushrooms,  two  ounces 
of  panade,  No.  9,  and  a  tablespoonful  of  x\llemande, 
No.  168,  or  Yeloute  sauce  ;  season  well  with  pepper, 
salt,  and  aromatic  spice  ;  work  it  thoroughly,  and  add 
gradually  two  whole  eggs  and  one  yolk  of  egg.  Butter 
tw^elve  small  timbale  moulds,  line  them  rather  thickly 
with  the  above  farce,  place  a  dessert-spoonful  of  salpicon, 
No.  12,  of  pigeon,  ham,  tongue,  truffles,  and  mush- 
rooms in  the  centre  of  each  ;  cover,  fill  up  with  the 
farce.  Place  them  in  a  saute-pan,  pour  in  some  boiling 
w^ater  so  as  to  steam  them,  cover  with  a  buttered  paper, 
bring  it  to  the  boil  over  the  fire,  and  steam  in  a  hot 
oven  for  about  twenty  minutes.  When  done,  turn  out ; 
dish  them  up  in  a  circle  ;  place  a  small  mushroom  head 
and  a  piece  of  truffle  on  each ;  pour  some  Supreme 
sauce.  No.  175,  over  and  around  them  ;  garnish  wdth  a 
few  fleurons  of  puff-paste  and  fancy  shapes  of  sliced  ox- 
tongue. 

472.  Pigeons  Farcis  a  la  Princesse. — 3  Bordeaux 
pigeons,  1  bundle  of  sprue  or  |  pint  asparagus  tops,  6 
large  sauce  oysters,  |  lbs.  of  lean  beef,  4  oz.  butter,  ^ 
lb.  of  panade,  No.  9,  1  gill  Espagnole  sauce.  No.  184, 
1^  ounce  of  meat  glaze,  3  yolks  of  eggs,  |  pint  Sauce 
Italienne,  No.  188,  mashed  potatoes  for  border,  pepper 
and  salt. 

Split  the  pigeons  in  halves,  remove  the  breast-bones, 
and  beat  them  flat  with  a  cutlet  bat.  Eemove  fat  and 
sinews  from  the  beef,  cut  up  small  and  pound  in  a 
mortar  ;  add  the  butter  and  panade,  pound  the  panade 
separately  before  it  is  added  to  the  meat,  work  in  the 
egg  yolks,  season  to  taste,  and  rub  through  a  fine  sieve. 
Mix  about  a  tablespoonful  of  Espagnole  sauce  with  the 
forcemeat  and  spread  over  the  cut  side  of  the  pigeons. 
Place  a  bearded  oyster  in  the  centre  of  each,  folded  so  as  to 


ENTKEES    (hot).  547 

give  it  a  neat  shape,  and  sew  up  with  strings.  Put 
each  in  a  buttered  paper,  put  thern  in  a  buttered  saute- 
pan,  and  cook  them  in  a  hot  oven  with  a  glass  of  sherry 
and  the  remainder  of  brown  sauce.  Remove  the  papers, 
brown  them  under  a  salamander,  and  glaze  over  with 
dissolved  meat  glaze.  Take  out  the  strings  and  dish  up 
on  a  border  of  mashed  potatoes,  with  a  stew  of  aspara- 
gus points  in  the  centre,  and  serve  with  Italienne  sauce. 
The  asparagus  points  should  be  washed,  blanched,  and 
cooked  tender  in  salted  water,  well  strained,  moistened 
with  the  sauce  left  over  from  the  pigeons,  and  seasoned 
with  pepper,  salt,  and  a  pinch  of  sugar. 

473.  Salmis  de  Canard  a  la  Montreuil. — 2  small 
ducks  (trussed),  1  oz.  butter,  i  pint  stock,  1  small 
bouquet  of  herbs,  No.  3, 1  glass  sherry,  1  gill  Espagnole, 
No.  184,  I  pint  tomato  sauce,  No.  202,  2  oz.  smoked 
cooked  ox-tongue,  6  preserved  mushrooms,  3  large 
truffles,  ^  onion,  1  small  carrot,  pepper,  salt,  nutmeg, 
fleurons  or  croutons  of  bread. 

Partly  roast  the  ducks,  let  cool  and  divide  into  neat 
joints.  Spread  the  butter  in  a  flat  stewpan  or  saute- 
pan,  lay  in  the  onion  and  carrot,  previously  peeled  and 
cut  in  slices,  also  the  bouquet  garni ;  put  in  the  pieces  of 
duck,  season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  a  grate  of  nutmeg, 
cook  in  a  hot  oven  for  about  ten  minutes ;  pour  off  the 
butter.  Moisten  with  the  stock,  wine,  Espagnole,  and 
tomato  sauce,  cover  with  the  lid,  and  let  it  simmer 
gently  for  about  three  parts  of  an  hour  or  longer.  Take 
out  the  pieces  of  duck,  place  them  in  another  stewpan, 
skim  the  sauce,  and  strain  over  the  duck.  Cut  the  ox- 
tongue, mushrooms,  and  truffles  into  julienne  shapes, 
put  with  the  above,  and  simmer  for  another  ten  minutes. 
Put  a  fried  bread  croute  in  the  centre  of  a  hot  dish,  fix 
it  with  a  little  batter,  or  a  little  flour  and  water  mixed 
will  do,  if  you  have  no  batter  handy  ;  put  in  the  oven  a 
few  minutes.  Dress  the  pieces  of  duck  and  garnishing 
artistically  on  and  around  the  croutes,  and  sauce  over 
gently.  Decorate  with  a  few  fleurons  of  puff-paste  pre- 
viously dipped  in  a  little  liquid  meat  glaze,  and  serve  hot. 

35 


648  RECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

474.  Filets  de  Caneton  Farci  a  la  Legumiere. — 

Remove  the  backbone  from  a  large -sized  duckling, 
lay  it  out  flat,  and  take  out  the  other  bones;  have 
ready  some  veal  forcemeat,  No.  230,  spread  the  stuffing 
over  every  hollow  place  of  the  interior,  lay  a  few  strips 
of  raw  ham  in  between  the  forcemeat,  tie  or  sew  up 
the  duckling  with  strings.  Put  a  few  slices  of  bacon 
at  the  bottom  of  a  deep  saute-pan,  together  with  a 
small  bouquet  garni.  No.  3,  and  a  few  slices  of  onion ; 
lay  the  duckling  in  the  pan,  season  with  pepper  and 
salt,  moisten  with  a  little  stock,  and  put  it  in  a 
moderate  oven  for  about  an  hour  or  more  until  tender, 
basting  it  from  time  to  time ;  take  it  up,  and  keep 
warm.  Take  out  the  bacon  and  onion  from  the  saute- 
pan,  add  half  a  pint  of  ^ladeira  sauce,  No.  186,  and  a 
tablespoonful  of  tomato  sauce,  No.  202,  let  all  simmer 
for  a  few  minutes,  and  pass  through  a  tammy  cloth. 
Cut  the  duckling  into  neat  slices,  dish  up  in  an  oblong 
entree  dish,  garnish  the  sides  with  alternate  groups  of 
cooked  green  peas,  young  carrots  and  turnips  (scooped 
out  in  olive  shapes),  and  a  few  sippets  of  bread,  sauce 
over  carefully,  and  serve.  This  dish  is  also  served  as  a 
Remove. 

475.  Salmis  de  Canard  aux  Olives. — Truss  a  duck, 
the  same  as  for  roasting,  put  it  in  a  roasting-tm  with 
a  little  butter  or  lard,  and  roast  partially.  Let  cool, 
untruss,  and  cut  it  into  neat  joints.  Trim  each  piece 
neatly  (using  the  trimmings  for  Salmis  Sauce,  No.  189). 

Prepare  the  sauce,  strain  and  put  in  a  stewpan. 
Add  the  pieces  of  duck,  and  about  twenty-four  stoned 
olives.  Season  with  a  little  pepper  and  salt,  add  a 
glass  of  Madeira  wine,  and  simmer  gently  for  about 
fifteen  to  twenty  minutes.  Dish  up  and  serve  with  a 
garnish  of  glazed  fried  bread  croutons. 

Note.  —  All  kinds  of  game  are  prepared  in  this 
manner,  using  in  each  kind  the  trimmings  for  the 
sauce  to  impart  the  correct  flavour.  The  garnish  may 
be  varied,  and  may  consist  of  champignons,  truffles, 
quenelles,  &c. 


ENTREES    (hot).  549 

476.  Canard  a  la  Portugaise. — 1  large  fat  duck, 
4  small  tomatoes,  1  pint  brown  stock,  1  bouquet  garni, 
No.  3,  1  oz.  butter,  I  pint  Espagnole  sauce.  No.  184, 
I  pint  tomato  sauce,  No.  202,  3  thin  slices  of  ox- 
tongue, 1  truffle,  6  to  8  mushroom  heads,  pepper,  salt, 
and  grated  nutmeg,  mashed  potatoes  for  dressing, 
1  glass  sherry. 

Singe,  draw,  and  wipe  the  duck,  joint  it  neatly, 
and  put  the  carcase  in  a  saute-pan,  sprinkle  with  salt, 
place  the  pieces  of  wing,  legs,  and  breast  on  top,  spread 
on  each  a  small  piece  of  butter,  and  put  in  a  hot  oven 
for  ten  minutes.  Take  out  the  pieces  of  duck,  put  the 
carcase  in  a  stewpan  with  the  stock,  bouquet  of  herbs, 
and  stew  for  half  an  hour ;  then  add  the  sauces,  remove 
the  fat,  add  the  sherry,  and  reduce  a  little.  Slice  the 
tomatoes  rather  coarsely,  fry  them  a  little  in  butter. 
Cut  the  tongue  in  julienne  strips,  slice  the  truffles. 
Eub  the  sauce  through  a  tammy  cloth,  put  the  pieces 
of  duck  in  a  stewpan  with  the  sauce,  truffles,  and  mush- 
rooms, and  let  stew  gently  for  about  half  an  hour. 
Toss  the  tongue  in  a  little  butter  over  a  quick  fire, 
just  long  enough  to  warm  through.  Season  the  salmi 
with  a  pinch  of  pepper  and  a  grate  of  nutmeg.  Dish 
up  on  a  round  or  oval  dish,  on  to  a  pyramid  of  mashed 
potatoes,  place  the  garnish  of  tomatoes,  tongue,  and 
mushrooms  in  small  groups  round  the  dish,  sauce  over 
well  with  the  Salmis  sauce,  and  serve  very  hot. 

477.  Sarcelles  aux  Olives  (Teal  Ducks  or  Widgeons 
with  Olives). — This  dish  is  prepared  exactly  the  same 
as  Salmi  de  Canard  aux  Olives,  No.  475,  using  two  to 
three  widgeons  instead  of  duck. 

478.  Salmis  de  Pluviers  a  la  Chasseur  (Salmis  of 
Plovers,  Hunters'  Style). — Proceed  the  same  as  for 
salmi  of  duck,  adding  about  twelve  preserved  mush- 
rooms, cut  in  slices  or  chopped  coarsely,  and  omitting 
the  olives.  The  dish  should  be  garnished  with  eight 
heart-shaped  bread  croutons  brushed  over  with  meat 
glaze  or  Liebig  Company's  Meat  Extract. 

479.  Salmis  de  Perdrix    Blanche    a    la    Regence 


550  RECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

(Salmis  of  Ptarmigan,  Regent  Style). — Prepare  this 
salmis  the  same  as  that  of  Duck,  No.  475,  adding  a 
good  half-pint  of  garnishing  (a  la  Regence,  No.  309) 
ten  minutes  before  serving.  Reckon  one  ptarmigan  for 
three  persons,  or  three  for  eight. 

480.  Civet  de  Lievre  a  la  Bordelaise. — 1  tender 
hare,  1  onion,  2  cloves,  thyme,  2  bayleaves,  12  small 
button  onions  (glazed),  2  oz.  bacon,  1  oz.  butter,  ^ 
glass  white  and  4  glass  red  wine,  ^  pint  stock, 
^  oz.  flour,  seasoning,  8  croutons,  and  8  Godivean 
quenelles. 

Skin  and  neatly  draw  the  hare  (if  there  is  any 
blood  left  preserve  it,  mixed  with  a  httle  vinegar). 
Preserve  the  liver  carefully,  remo^dng  the  gall.  Cut 
the  hare  into  twelve  to  fourteen  neat  joints,  place  in  a 
deep  dish  or  jar,  season  with  salt,  pepper,  nutmeg,  and 
sliced  onion,  2  cloves,  1  sprig  thyme,  and  bayleaves. 
Add  the  wine  and  let  it  thus  soak  well  mixed  for  five 
or  six  hours.  Lift  out  the  pieces,  drain  on  a  cloth. 
Fry  them  lightly  in  a  saute-pan  with  the  butter,  dredge 
with  the  flour,  and  stir  over  a  brisk  fire  until  of  a 
light-brown  colour,  moisten  with  stock,  red  wine,  and 
liquor,  fry  the  bacon,  previously  cut  into  dice,  and 
put  with  the  civet,  when  the  latter  boils.  Simmer  for 
about  one  hour.  Put  the  small  onions  previously 
braised  in  a  saucepan,  and  keep  hot.  Chop  liver  and 
heart  very  finely,  mix  with  the  blood  (if  any),  and  add 
to  the  stew  about  a  quarter  of  an  hour  before  it  is  done. 
Have  ready  some  Godivean  quenelles  and  croutes  of 
fried  bread.  Dish  up  the  civet  as  neatly  as  possible, 
decorate  with  braised  onions,  croutons,  and  Godivean 
quenelles  round  the  base  of  the  dish,  and  serve  with  a 
small  glass  dish  of  red-currant  jelly. 

481.  Godivean  Quenelles  for  Civet. — }  lb.  veal  suet, 
|-  lb.  lean  veal,  ^  lb.  pate  a  choux  or  panade,  2  yolks, 
and  1  white  of  egg.     Salt,  pepper,  nutmeg. 

Pound,  mix,  pass  through  a  sieve,  season  and  make 
up  into  quenelles,  steam  or  poach. 

482.  Lapin  Frit  a  la   Tartare. — 1   young  rabbit, 


ENTREES    (hot).  551 

1  egg,  2  oz.  butter,  breadcrumbs,   Tartare  sauce,  No. 
213,  seasoning,  frying  fat. 

Skin,  draw,  wash,  and  wipe  the  rabbit,  cut  it  into 
neat  joints,  and  fry  in  butter  in  a  saute-pan  until  three- 
parts  done.  Sprinkle  with  a  little  pepper  and  salt,  put 
the  pieces  to  cool,  then  trim ;  dip  each  in  beaten  egg  and 
crumb  ;  when  set,  dip  in  oiled  butter,  and  egg  and  crumb 
again.  Place  the  pieces  in  a  frying  basket,  and  fry  a 
golden  colour  in  clarified  fat  or  lard,  drain,  dish  up  on  a 
hot  dish  with  folded  napkin  or  dish -paper,  garnish  with 
fried  or  fresh  parsley,  and  serve  with  Tartare  sauce. 
This  dish  is  sometimes  garnished  with  strips  of  fried 
bacon, 

483.  Gibelotte  de  Lapin. — 1  or  2  Ostend  rabbits 
(skinned),  ^  lb.  fat  bacon,  bouquet  garni.  No.  3,  2  oz. 
butter,  1  oz.  flour,  18  button  onions,  1  glass  Chablis  or 
Sauterne,  |  of  a  pint  of  stock,  salt,  pepper. 

Wipe  the  rabbit  with  a  damp  cloth,  and  cut  it  into 
neat  joints  not  too  large.  Cut  the  bacon  into  slices, 
put  the  butter  and  bacon  in  a  saute-pan,  and  stir  over 
the  fire  for  five  minutes.  Take  out  the  bacon,  and  put 
on  a  plate.  Peel  the  onions,  fry  them  a  golden  colour 
in  the  butter,  and  put  with  the  bacon.  Let  the  butter 
get  thoroughly  hot,  and  put  in  the  rabbit.  Let  each 
piece  become  of  a  nice  brown  colour,  season  with  salt 
and  pepper,  sprinkle  in  the  flour,  let  it  get  nicely  brown, 
moisten  with  the  stock,  add  the  wine  and  bouquet  garni, 
which  should  consist  of  two  sprigs  of  parsley,  a  sprig  of 
marjoram,  a  sprig  of  thyme,  and  a  bayleaf,  all  tied  up 
neatly  with  a  piece  of  white  cotton  or  thin  string.  Let 
it  come  slowly  to  a  boil,  skim,  put  in  the  onions,  and 
let  the  whole  simmer  very  gently  for  about  an  hour  and 
a  quarter.  The  saute-pan  should  be  kept  well  covered 
when  once  the  contents  commence  to  simmer,  so  as  to 
prevent  the  steam  as  much  as  possible  from  escaping. 
About  ten  minutes  before  the  above-stated  time,  put  in 
the  liver,  well  washed,  and  cut  into  four.  Before  dish- 
ing up,  take  out  the  pieces  of  rabbit,  onion,  and  liver, 
and  put  in  another  saute-pan  ;  add  the  bacon.     Take  off 


552  RECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

the  fat  from  the  sauce,  and  strain  over  the  rabbit. 
Place  a  round  piece  of  toasted  bread  in  the  centre  of 
a  dish,  dress  the  pieces  of  rabbit  neatly  on  it,  and  put 
the  garnish  over  and  round  it.  Boil  up  the  sauce,  and 
pour  over  the  meat. 

484.  Cotelettes  de  Lapereaux. — Take  4  legs  (culottes) 
of  wild  rabbit,  cut  them  in  two,  remove  the  bones 
(reserve  the  knuckle-bones  for  further  use),  flatten  each 
with  the  cutlet-bat.  Prepare  a  forcemeat  of  rabbit  meat 
(3  oz.),  1  eggj  1  oz.  fat  bacon,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  white 
sauce.  Season  with  pepper,  salt,  and  aromatic  spice. 
When  powdered,  pass  through  a  sieve.  Fry  a  dessert- 
spoonful of  chopped  parsley,  tarragon,  and  chervil  leaves 
in  a  little  fresh  butter,  and  add  to  the  farce.  Spread 
the  cut  side  of  the  rabbit  legs  with  this  farce,  shape 
them  neatly  in  the  form  of  cutlets,  season  with  a  little 
salt  and  pepper,  wrap  each  in  a  piece  of  pig's  caul,  fry  a 
little  on  each  side  in  butter.  When  cold,  insert  small 
bones  to  imitate  cutlet  bones,  dip  in  egg  and  breadcrumbs, 
fry  in  clarified  butter  or  fat,  drain,  dish  up,  and  serve 
with  tomato  sauce,  No.  202. 

485.  Cailles  a  la  Souvaroffe. — 4  quails,  2  oz.  butter, 
1  lb.  lean  veal,  J  lb.  beef  suet,  4  oz.  panade,  2  whole 
and  1  yolk  of  eggs,  j  gill  cream,  ^  pint  game  sauce,  No. 
200,  ^  glass  sherry,  6  heads  of  mushrooms,  6  cocks' 
combs,  G  cocks'  kernels,  8  small  quenelles,  2  truffles,  salt, 
pepper,  and  nutmeg. 

Truss  the  quails  for  roasting,  put  them  in  a  saute- 
pan  or  tin  with  the  butter,  and  roast  in  the  oven  till 
three-parts  done.  Prepare  a  farce,  cut  the  veal  into  fine 
slices,  pound  in  a  mortar,  and  rub  through  a  sieve. 
Shred  the  suet  finely,  and  pound  likewise ;  mix  both 
together,  add  the  panade,  season  with  pepper,  salt,  and 
nutmeg,  work  in  the  yolks  of  eggs  and  a  little  cream. 
Put  this  in  a  basin.  Beat  the  whites  of  eggs  to  a  stiff 
froth,  and  mix  carefully  with  the  forcemeat.  Butter  a 
small  border-mould,  fill  up  with  the  above  preparation, 
place  it  in  a  stewpan,  with  enough  boiling  water  to 
come  about  half  way  up  the  side  of  the  mould.      Let  it 


ENTBEES    (hot).  553 

come  to  the  boil,  cover  with  a  buttered  paper,  and  finish 
in  the  oven.  Prepare  8  small  quenelles  with  the 
remainder  of  forcemeat,  poach  them  in  a  little  stock, 
strain,  and  put  in  the  game  sauce,  previously  heated. 
Add  the  sherry,  cocks'  combs,  and  kernels,  also  the 
truffles  cut  into  slices.  Let  the  whole  simmer  for  a 
few  minutes,  and  keep  hot  till  wanted.  Turn  the  border 
of  forcemeat  on  to  a  round  entree-dish.  Cut  the  quails 
in  halves  or  quarters,  place  them  in  the  hot  sauce  for 
about  five  minutes,  then  dress  them  neatly  round  the 
base  of  the  border.  Dress  the  financiere  garniture  in 
the  centre  of  the  dish,  boil  up  the  sauce,  sauce  over  the 
whole,  and  serve. 

486.  Perdrix,  braisees,  aux  Choux  (Braised  Par- 
tridges with  Cabbage). — 2  or  3  partridges,  2  small  cab- 
bages, 1  carrot,  1  onion,  8  oz.  salt  pork  or  fat  bacon,  3 
cloves,  bouquet  garni,  No.  3,  1  glass  white  wine,  1^ 
pint  rich  broth,  1  gill  Espagnole  sauce.  No.  184,  salt, 
pepper,  nutmeg,  2  oz.  dripping. 

Singe,  draw,  and  wipe  the  birds,  truss  them  with 
their  wings  turned  inwards.  Put  them  in  a  roasting 
tin,  cover  with  dripping,  and  roast  for  ten  minutes. 
Take  up  and  drain.  Wash  the  cabbages,  cut  into 
quarters,  remove  the  stalks,  cook  for  ten  minutes  in 
salted  water,  and  drain.  Have  ready  a  large  stewpan, 
put  in  some  slices  of  pork  or  bacon,  the  carrot  and  onion 
cut  into  slices,  cloves,  and  bouquet ;  lay  the  partridges 
on  this,  and  put  the  cabbage  on  top,  then  some  more 
bacon  or  pork,  add  the  wine  and  stock,  season  with 
pepper,  salt,  and  grated  nutmeg,  cover  and  cook  slowly 
from  30  to  45  minutes.  Dress  the  cabbages  on  a  dish 
to  form  a  bed,  place  the  partridges  on  this  (whole  or  cut 
up),  garnish  with  slices  of  carrot,  and  bacon  or  pork. 
Skim  and  strain  the  broth,  add  the  sauce,  boil  up,  and 
sauce  all  over. 

487.  Cotelettes  de  Perdreau  a  la  Financiere — 2 
partridges  trussed  for  roasting,  1  hard-boiled  white  of 
egg,  3  truffles,  18  preserved  mushrooms,  1  small  bottle 
financiere,  f  oz.  butter,  1  egg,  1  oz.  panade,  No.  9, 


654  KECHERCHE   COOKERY. 

4  gill  Yeloute  sauce,  No.  169,  1  gill  Madere  sauce,  No. 
186,  meat  glaze,  salt,  and  pepper,  a  crouton  of  fried 
bread,  a  small  quantity  of  mashed  potatoes. 

Roast  one  of  the  partridges,  bone  the  other,  and 
pound  the  meat,  freed  from  sinews  and  skin,  till  smooth, 
add  the  raw  egg,  panade,  and  Yeloute  sauce.  Season 
to  taste,  and  rub  through  a  wire  sieve.  Bone  the  cooked 
partridge  when  cold,  and  cut  into  thin  slices.  Stamp 
out  some  rounds  for  garnish  and  8  to  10  cutlet  shapes, 
stamp  out  some  little  rounds  of  white  of  egg  (hard- 
boiled),  of  truffle,  and  of  mushroom,  butter  8  to  10  cutlet 
moulds,  decorate  them  with  the  little  rounds  just 
referred  to,  put  them  on  the  ice  to  set,  work  up  the 
farce,  and  put  a  thin  layer  in  each  mould ;  lay  a  thin 
slice  of  cooked  partridge  on  top,  fill  up  with  farce,  smooth 
over  with  a  wet  knife  (press  down  well),  put  them  in  a 
saute-pan  containing  a  little  hot  water,  cover  with  a 
buttered  paper,  and  cook  in  a  moderately  heated  oven 
for  twenty  minutes.  Heat  up  the  financiere  ragout  in 
the  Madere  sauce,  add  the  remaining  mushrooms  and 
truffles,  left  whole  or  cut  in  dice,  and  simmer  for  a  few 
minutes.  Fix  the  croute  of  fried  bread  in  the  centre  of 
a  hot  dish,  around  which  put  a  thin  border  of  mashed 
potatoes.  Turn  out  the  cutlets,  dress  them  neatly  on 
the  border  of  mashed  potatoes.  Arrange  the  financiere 
as  a  garniture  artistically  on  the  croute,  pour  the  sauce 
round,  sprinkle  with  a  little  dissolved  meat  glaze,  and 
serve. 

488.  Souffle  de  Perdreau  a  TAnglaise. — About  8  oz. 
cooked  partridge,  2  oz.  brown  breadcrumbs,  3  eggs, 
J  gill  cream,  ^  gill  brown  stock,  butter,  3  large  truffles, 
1  oz.  panade.  No.  9,  pepper,  salt,  and  cayenne. 

Free  the  meat  from  bone,  skin,  and  sinew,  cut  it 
up  finely,  put  it  into  a  mortar  and  pound  until  smooth  ; 
add  the  breadcrumbs  and  panade,  mix  well,  and  work 
in  three  yolks  of  eggs,  one  at  a  time.  When  well 
pounded,  add  the  seasoning,  stock,  and  cream,  mix 
thoroughly,  and  pass  it  through  a  fine  wire  sieve. 
Butter  one  large  or  two  small  plain  moulds,  decorate 


ENTREES    (hot).  555 

the  bottom  with  fancifully  cut  slices  of  truffles  ;  when  set, 
fill  up  with  the  forcemeat,  cover  with  a  buttered  paper, 
stand  it  in  a  stewpan  containing  boiling  water,  and 
steam  for  45  minutes.  Turn  out  on  a  hot  dish  and 
serve  with  Madere  or  Perigueux  sauce. 

489.  Mauviettes  Farcies  a  la  Madrid. — 8  larks, 
boned,  2  eggs,  2|  oz.  butter,  2  oz.  soft  breadcrumbs, 
1  oz.  chopped  ham,  J  teaspoonful  curry  paste,  3  oz.  lean 
veal,  f  leek,  ^  head  celery,  1  small  carrot,  1  small 
onion,  1  bouquet  garni,  No.  3,  h  gill  white  wine  or 
sherry,  |  pint  brown  sauce.  No.  184,  meat  glaze, 
pepper  and  salt,  fried  parsley,  8  paper  cases. 

Pound  the  veal  and  ham  in  a  mortar  till  fine  ;  add 
the  curry  paste,  1  oz.  butter,  breadcrumbs,  and  eggs ; 
mix  well  and  rub  through  a  wire  sieve,  season  with  a 
little  white  pepper,  and  fill  up  the  boned  larks  by  means 
of  a  forcing- bag;  wrap  each  bird  in  a  small  piece  of 
muslin  cloth,  and  tie  up  the  ends.  Chop  up  the 
carcase  of  the  birds,  put  them  with  1|  oz.  butter,  the 
carrot,  onion,  leek,  and  celery,  all  cut  in  slices,  in  a  stew- 
pan  ;  fry  for  ten  minutes,  put  in  the  larks,  moisten  with 
white  wine,  add  the  bunch  of  savoury  herbs  (bouquet 
garni),  and  cook  in  the  oven  for  about  half  an  hour.  Baste 
the  birds  occasionally.  When  cooked,  remove,  unwrap 
the  birds,  brush  over  with  liquid  meat  glaze,  and  keep 
hot.  Skim  off  the  fat  from  the  mirepoix  in  the  pan,  add 
the  brown  sauce  and  a  little  stock,  simmer  for  ten 
minutes,  strain  and  skim  ;  put  a  tablespoonful  of  meat 
glaze  with  i  gill  of  the  sauce  and  boil  up.  Place  each 
bird  in  a  paper  case,  sauce  over  with  a  little  of  this 
sauce,  garnish  round  the  edges  with  some  fried  parsley, 
dish  up  and  serve  the  remainder  of  the  sauce,  seasoned 
with  pepper  and  salt,  separately  in  a  sauce-boat.  If 
preferred,  the  birds  may  be  dressed  on  a  border  of  mashed 
potatoes  instead  of  serving  them  in  paper  cases. 
Partridges  or  quails  can  be  cooked  and  served  in  the 
same  manner. 

490.  Filets  de  Becasses  a  la  Talleyrand  (Fillets  of 
Woodcock,  Talleyrand  Style). — 2  woodcocks,  trussed 


556  RECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

for  roasting,  4  oz.  fillet  of  beef,  4  oz.  panade,  No.  9, 
1  white  and  3  j'olks  of  eggs,  2  oz.  fat  pork,  |  glass 
Sauterne,  4  oval  croiites  of  fried  bread,  1  gill  white  stock, 
J  pint  Sauce  Gibier,  No.  200,  2  oz.  butter,  salt,  and 
pepper,  mashed  potatoes  for  a  small  border. 

Roast  the  woodcocks,  and  baste  well  with  clarified 
butter.  Remove  the  fillets  and  put  on  a  plate  ;  remove 
the  meat  from  the  legs,  free  it  from  skin,  and  pound  in 
a  mortar  ;  pound  the  beef  and  pork  together  till  smooth, 
add  the  panade,  pounded  game,  and  work  in  two  yolks 
of  eggs  ;  season  to  taste  with  a  little  salt  and  pepper,  and 
rub  through  a  fine  sieve.  Trim  the  fillets  neatly,  cover 
each  completely  with  the  above  farce  ;  when  set,  dip  in 
beaten  white  of  egg,  place  in  a  buttered  saute-pan,  cover 
with  a  gill  of  white  stock  and  |  glass  of  Sauterne,  and 
poach  in  a  quick  oven  for  12  minutes.  The  croutes 
should  be  as  nearly  as  possible  of  the  same  shape  as  the 
prepared  fillets.  Spread  each  with  forcemeat  (the  same 
as  made  for  fillets)  so  as  to  give  them  a  dome-shaped 
appearance,  smooth  over  with  a  wet  knife,  put  the 
croutes  thus  prepared  in  a  hot  oven  for  ten  minutes, 
just  long  enough  to  get  thoroughly  hot  and  to  colour 
the  top.  Drain  the  fillets  on  a  cloth,  dish  them  up 
alternately  with  the  croutes  on  a  thin  border  of  mashed 
potatoes,  stand  the  dish  in  the  oven  for  a  few  seconds 
longer.  Put  the  remainder  of  forcemeat  in  astewpan, 
add  a  little  Gibier  sauce,  previously  well  reduced  ;  when 
hot,  add  a  yolk  of  egg,  stir  over  the  fire  until  it  begins  to 
thicken,  dress  it  in  the  centre  of  the  dish,  piled  up  high, 
sauce  over  quickly  with  Gibier  sauce,  and  serve. 

491.  Zephires  de  Foie  Gras  aux  TrufFes,  Sauce 
Supreme. — Make  sufiicient  forcemeat  of  fowl  to  line  eight 
zephire  moulds  (oval-shaped  fluted  moulds),  butter  the 
moulds  well,  ornament  the  bottom  of  eachmth  truffles, 
put  them  on  the  ice  to  set  firm,  line  bottoms  and  sides 
with  forcemeat.  No.  237,  in  which  a  quantity  of  foie 
gras  puree  has  been  incorporated.  Place  a  nice  piece 
of  foie  gras  naturel  in  the  centre,  season  with  a  little 
savoury  spice  (aromatic  seasoning),  spread  over  with 


ENTREES    (hot).  557 

forcemeat  until  fall,  set  them  on  the  fire  in  a  sautoir 
half  filled  with  water.  As  soon  as  it  boils  cover  with 
buttered  paper,  and  allow  them  to  finish  poaching  in 
the  oven,  which  will  take  from  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes. 
Dress  them  in  the  form  of  a  star  on  a  round  entree  dish, 
sauce  over  with  a  light  Supreme  sauce,  No.  175,  sprinkle 
with  a  few  drops  of  dissolved  meat  glaze,  and  serve. 

492.  Epig^rammes  de  Faisan  a  la  Jardiniere. — 1 
large  pheasant,  2  oz.  butter,  f  pint  Allemande  sauce,  No. 
168,  salt,  pepper,  nutmeg,  1  egg,  breadcrumbs,  frying 
lard  or  butter,  veal  forcemeat.  No.  230,  demi-glace 
sauce.  No.  164,  jardiniere  of  vegetables  for  centre. 

Eemove  the  fillets  from  the  pheasant,  flatten  each, 
and  cut  into  heart-shaped  pieces.  Trim  neatly,  season 
with  pepper  and  salt,  fry  lightly  in  some  butter,  press 
between  two  boards.  When  cold,  immerse  well  in  almost 
cold  Allemande  sauce  (repeat  this  twice  to  coat  thoroughly) , 
set  to  cool,  then  egg  and  crumb.  Fill  a  well-greased 
border-mould  with  the  prepared  forcemeat,  cook  in  a 
saute-pan  half  filled  with  boiling  water,  and  finish  in 
the  oven.  When  done,  turn  out  on  a  hot  dish.  Fry  the 
epigrammes,  drain,  dish  up  on  the  border,  fill  the  centre 
with  the  prepared  Jardiniere,  sauce  round  with  demi- 
glace,  and  serve  hot. 

493.  Friandines  de  Gibier  a  la  Perigueux. — Prepare 
about  one  pound  of  salpicon.  No.  12,  of  any  kind  of 
cooked  game,  tongue,  mushrooms,  and  truffles.  Take 
one  pound  of  puff-paste,  roll  it  out  very  thin ;  stamp 
out  some  rounds  with  a  fluted  pastry  cutter  ;  put  a 
small  heap  of  salpicon  mince  in  the  centre  of  half  the 
quantity  of  each  round,  wet  the  edges  with  a  brush, 
cover  each  with  the  other  half ;  press  gently,  taking 
care  to  keep  the  mince  in  the  centre  of  each  one.  Dip 
them  carefully  in  well-beaten  egg,  crumb  in  freshly- 
made  bread-crumbs  mixed  with  a  small  handful  of 
chopped  ham  or  a  dessert-spoonful  of  chopped  truffles  ; 
fry  in  clarified  butter,  drain  on  a  cloth,  dish  up  in  a 
pyramidal  form,  and  garnish  with  fried  parsley.  Serve 
with  a  boat  of  Sauce  Perigueux,  No.  192. 


558  RECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

494.  Pate  Chaud  de  Mauviettes. — Prepare  a  paste 
for  crust  with  the  following  ingredients  : — ^  lb.  flour, 
1  oz.  chopped  beef  suet,  1^  oz.  butter,  J  gill  water,  a 
pinch  of  salt.     Work  it  the  same  as  ordinary  short  paste. 

Line  an  oval  raised-pie  mould,  about  three  inches 
high  and  six  inches  long ;  then  take  twelve  to  eighteen 
larks,  bone  and  stuff  them  with  forcemeat,  No.  232  or 
234,  and  shape  neatly.  Prepare  a  thin  sauce  with  the 
bones,  i  pint  brown  sauce,  No.  184, 2  glasses  sherry,  and 
I  pint  consomme  or  gravy,  and  reduce  well.  Roll  a  slice 
of  bacon  round  each  stuffed  lark ;  line  the  bottom  of  the 
mould  with  thin  slices  of  bacon  (streaky),  then  place  in  a 
layer  of  the  birds,  and  here  and  there  the  yolk  of  a  hard- 
boiled  egg,  and  proceed  thus  until  the  mould  is  full. 
When  filled,  cover  the  mould  with  paste,  ornament  taste- 
fully, brush  over  with  yolk  of  egg,  and  bake  for  about 
two  hours  in  a  moderate  oven.  Pluck  and  clean  a  few 
of  the  heads  of  birds  and  fry  them  in  a  little  butter  (to 
be  set  in  at  the  edge  of  the  pie  just  before  serving). 
When  baked,  remove  the  cover  carefully,  and  having 
reduced  the  sauce  sufficiently  pour  over  the  mterior,  re- 
place the  cover,  ornament  with  the  birds'  heads,  and 
serve. 

495.  Mauviettes  a  la  Rentiere. — 8  or  9  larks,  ^  lb. 
streaky  bacon,  ^  lb.  lean  beef,  ^  lb.  veal,  1  carrot,  3  cloves, 
10  peppercorns,  2  blades  whole  mace,  a  few  sprigs  of 
savoury  herbs,  IJ  pint  stock,  forcemeat,  2  oz.  butter, 
f  pint  Sauce  Perigueux,  No.  192,  |  lb.  boiled  bacon, 
1  lemon,  fried  bread  croustades  or  croutons. 

Foj'  the  forcemeat. — 3  oz.  lean  beef,  3  oz.  bread- 
crumbs, 1  yolk  of  Qgg,  rind  of  half  a  lemon,  a  few  sprigs 
of  tarragon,  1  tablespoonful  cream,  pepper,  salt,  grated 
nutmeg,  lemon  juice. 

Cut  the  raw  bacon,  beef,  veal,  and  carrot  (previously 
scraped)  into  slices,  and  place  alternately  in  layers  in  a 
stewpan  with  the  cloves,  peppercorns,  mace,  and  herbs. 
Cover  the  stewpan  closely,  set  it  on  the  fire,  and  allow 
it  to  draw  until  the  gravy  is  extracted ;  then  add  the 
stock  (boiling),  and  simmer  for  half-hour  or  more.   Draw 


ENTBEES    (hot). 


559 


and  bone  the  larks  and  stuff  them  with  forcemeat,  made 
as  follows :  Pound  the  beef  in  a  mortar ;  when  quite  fine, 
add  the  breadcrumbs,  yolk  of  egg,  lemon  rind  finely 
chopped,  and  a  squeeze  of  the  juice,  and  tarragon. 
Pound  all  well,  and  mix  with  two  tablespoonfuls  of 
cream ;  season  with  pepper,  salt,  and  grated  nutmeg. 
Stuff  the  birds  with  this,  flatten  the  breasts,  dip  them 
in  flour,  and  fry  a  nice  brown  in  butter.  Pour  off  the 
butter,  put  the  birds  into  a  stewpan,  skim  the  stock  or 
Hquor,  add  the  sauce,  boil  up,  and  strain  over  the  birds ; 
cover  well  and  let  simmer  very  slowly  for  about  twenty 
minutes.  Have  ready  some  small  oval-shaped  croustades ; 
put  a  thin  slice  of  boiled  bacon  and  a  slice  of  lemon  on 
each.  Dress  the  birds  upon  these,  sauce  over,  and  serve. 
A  glass  of  Madeira  wine  will  greatly  improve  the  sauce, 
if  added  while  the  birds  are  being  simmered. 


Fillet - 


Chicken  Jointed. 


CHAPTER  IX. 

EEMOYES    AND   EOASTS,   WITH  PEAC- 
TICAL  HIXTS  OX  CAEVIXG. 

(See  also  pages  126  to  135.) 

496.  Aloyau  de  Bceuf  a  la  Godarcl.— About  6  lbs. 
sirloin  of  beef,  x  lb.  bacon,  1  sliced  carrot,  1  sliced  onion, 
1  bouquet  of  herbs,  1  gill  sherry  or  Sauterne,  \  pint 
tomato  sauce,  1  gill  brown  sauce,  1  pint  stock,  2  truffles, 
8  mushrooms,  3  artichoke  bottoms,  ^  cooked  sweetbread, 
8  small  chicken  quenelles,  pepper,  and  salt. 

Eemove  the  bones  of  the  loin,  pare  nicely.  Cut  the 
bacon  into  strips  about  1|  inch  long.  Make  some  holes 
in  the  meat  by  means  of  a  wooden  skewer,  and  insert 
the  strips  of  bacon.  Roll  and  tie  firmly.  Put  the  onion, 
carrot,  and  bouquet  of  herbs  in  a  braising-pan,  lay  the 
piece  of  beef  on  this,  moisten  with  the  wine  and  stock, 
season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  braise  for  two  hours 
in  a  moderately-heated  oven  ;  baste  the  meat  from  time 
to  time.  Skim  off  the  fat,  add  the  tomato  and  brown 
sauce,  previously  warmed,  cook  for  another  three- 
quarters  of  an  hour.  Take  up  the  meat  and  keep  hot, 
free  the  sauce  from  fat,  and  strain  ;  boil  for  another  ten 
minutes.  Add  the  garnishing,  consisting  of  i)i"eserved 
mushroom  heads,  quartered  artichoke  bottoms,  small 
pieces  of  sweetbread,  slices  of  truffles,  and  quenelles. 
When  the  latter  is  thoroughly  hot,  untie  the  loin  o 
beef,  dish  up  on  a  small  bed  of  mashed  potatoes ;  sur- 
round with  groups  of  quenelles,  sweetbread,  mushrooms 
artichokes,  &c.  Pour  some  of  the  sauce  over  the  meat, 
and  serve  the  remainder  in  a  sauce-boat  along  with  the 
dish. 


REMOVES  AND  ROASTS,  WITH  HINTS  ON  CARVING.    561 

497.  Filet  de  Boeuf  a  la  Louis  XV. — Procure  a  piece 
of  fillet  (middle  cut)  about  4  to  5  lbs.  in  weight ;  pare 
off  the  fat  and  sinews  ;  trim  neatly  ;  lard  it  longways 
with  small  strips  of  fat  bacon  ;  put  it  in  a  baking-tin 
with  one  glass  of  sherry  wine,  a  tablespoonful  of  drip- 
ping, a  sliced  onion,  carrot,  and  turnip  ;  season  with 
salt  and  pepper  ;  roast  it  in  a  quick  oven  from  forty  to 
fifty  minutes,  or  longer  if  you  wish  it  to  be  well  done  ; 
baste  it  well  during  the  time  of  cooking.  Take  out  the 
fillet,  pour  off  the  fat  left  in  the  tin,  add  to  the  fond  a 
pint  of  thin  brown  sauce  and  a  teaspoonful  of  extract  of 
meat ;  let  simmer  for  a  few  minutes,  skim  and  strain. 
Have  ready  a  croustade  of  bread  large  enough  to  hold 
the  fillet,  fasten  same  on  an  oblong  dish  ;  glaze  the 
surface  of  the  fillet  with  dissolved  meat  glaze  ;  stand  it 
in  the  centre  of  the  croustade  ;  garnish  round  the  dish 
with  groups  of  stuffed  fried  potatoes,  and  serve  the  sauce 
separately  with  the  dish. 

498.  Filet  de  Bceuf  a  la  Brillat-Savarin. — Procure 
the  centre-piece  (about  4  lbs.)  of  fillet  of  beef,  remove 
fat  and  sinews,  lard  the  top  with  strips  of  truffles,  cover 
it  with  a  layer  of  sliced  vegetables,  bard  it  with  slices  of 
fat  pork,  tie  up  with  string  ;  put  it  in  an  oblong  braising- 
tin  or  baking-pan,  season  with  aromatic  spice  and  salt, 
moisten  with  half  a  pint  of  white  wine  and  some  stock 
or  water,  set  it  in  a  moderate  oven  for  about  one  hour  ; 
baste  occasionally.  When  done,  drain  and  keep  warm  ; 
strain  the  gravy,  remove  the  fat,  put  it  into  a  stewpan 
with  a  pint  of  brown  sauce,  one  glass  of  Madeira  wine, 
and  let  all  boil  until  well  reduced.  Next  remove  strings, 
fat,  and  vegetables  from  the  fillet,  trim,  and  dish  up  on 
a  crouton  of  fried  bread  ;  garnish  round  the  fillet  with 
alternate  groups  of  slices  of  braised  sweetbread,  small 
glazed  button  onions,  and  mushroom  heads  ;  sauce  the 
whole  with  part  of  the  prepared  sauce,  and  serve  the 
rest  separately.  Pieces  of  braised  calf's  brains  can  be 
served  with  this  dish  as  a  garnishing  when  desired. 

499.  Filet  de  Bceuf  a  la  Metropole.— A  piece  of  fillet 
of  beef,  larding  bacon,   1   glass  of  sherry  or  Madeira 


562  RECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

wine,  1  glass  of  Chablis  or  Sauterne,  1  onion,  1  carrot, 
1  bayleaf,  1  sprig  of  thyme,  a  few  sprigs  parsley,  1  table- 
spoonful  sweet  oil,  12  peppercorns,  salt,  2  truffles, 
4  artichoke  bottoms,  a  few  chicken  forcemeat  quenelles, 
I  pint  Espagnole  sauce,  1  gill  tomato  sauce,  4  oz.  rice 
cooked  in  stock,  J  pint  stock  or  consomme,  Dauphine 
potato  croquets. 

Pare  and  trim  the  fillet  into  neat  shape,  lard  the 
surface  vnth.  strips  of  fat  bacon,  put  it  in  a  deep  dish  or 
pan,  sprinkle  with  a  little  salt,  and  pour  over  the  wine  ; 
add  the  carrot  and  onion,  peeled  and  sliced,  the  bayleaf, 
thyme,  parsley,  peppercorns,  and  oil,  cover  and  let  it 
soak  in  marinade  for  twelve  hours  ;  turn  it  occasionally. 
Roast  the  fillet  in  a  hot  oven  for  about  twenty  minutes, 
baste  well  with  dripping  or  butter.  It  must  be  still 
underdone  (saignant)  when  taken  up.  Use  preserved 
artichoke  bottoms,  put  them  in  a  buttered  saute-pan, 
moisten  with  a  little  stock  or  consomme,  and  warm  up 
in  the  oven.  Strain  the  liquor  in  which  the  fillet  has 
been  marinaded  and  put  into  a  stewpan  ;  boil  up  and 
add  the  sauces.  Let  the  whole  simmer  for  ten  minutes, 
skim  off  the  fat,  and  keep  hot.  Cut  the  truffles  into 
thia  slices  or  small  dice  ;  poach  the  chicken  quenelles 
in  stock  or  consomme,  strain,  and  moisten  with  a  little 
sauce ;  add  the  truffles  with  the  quenelles,  drain  the 
artichoke  bottoms,  and  fill  them  with  the  above.  Place 
the  fillet  on  a  neatly- shaped  bed  of  cooked  rice  on  an 
oblong  dish,  garnish  with  the  filled  artichoke  bottoms 
and  Dauphine  potato  croquets  (Chapter  X.) ;  brush  over 
the  fillet  with  some  liquid  meat  glaze,  and  serve  with 
the  sauce,  which  should  be  served  separately. 

500.  Carre  d'Agneau  Froid  a  la  Bohemienne. — Pro- 
cure a  nice  neck  of  lamb,  remove  the  skin  from  the  fat, 
shorten  the  ribs,  saw  off  the  spiny  parts,  pare  and 
trim  nicely,  put  it  in  a  saute-pan  with  a  handful  of  sliced 
vegetables,  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  moisten  with  a 
little  stock,  and  braise  in  the  oven  for  about  an  hour  or 
more,  according  to  the  size.  When  done,  take  out  the  neck 
and  put  in  a  cool  place.     Add  a  little  more  stock  to  the 


REMOTES  AND  ROASTS,  WITH  HINTS  ON  CARVING.    563 

vegetables  in  the  sante-pan,  let  it  reduce  to  half,  skim  off 
the  fat  and  pass  through  a  sieve,  mixed  with  sufficient 
dissolved  gelatine  to  make  it  set  as  aspic,  also  half  a 
pint  of  tomato  sauce  and  a  dessert-spoonful  of  red-cur- 
rant jelly ;  when  nearly  cold,  but  still  liquid,  sauce  over 
the  neck  with  the  sauce,  and  when  set  mask  with  a  thin 
layer  of  aspic  jelly.  Dish  up  on  a  crouton  of  bread 
or  socle  of  boiled  rice,  garnish  the  sides  with  six  aspic 
timbales  of  peas.  Have  ready  two  silver  ate]ettes  de- 
corated with  a  cock's  kernel  and  comb  at  the  top,  a 
slice  of  truffle  and  a  plover's  egg  beneath;  stick  them 
into  each  side  of  the  top  of  the  neck ;  it  is  then  ready  to 
serve. 

501.  Ballotined'Agneau  aux  Petits  Pols. — 1  shoulder 
of  lamb,  6  oz.  veal,  4  oz.  pork,  3  oz.  cooked  ham,  1  des- 
sert-spoonful chopped  parsley,  2  truffles,  larding  bacon, 
3  slices  of  streaky  bacon,  1  onion,  1  carrot,  1  bay- 
leaf,  parsley,  1  pint  green  peas  (cooked),  1  pint  stock, 
1  pint  Espagnole  sauce,  salt,  and  pepper. 

Bone  the  shoulder  of  lamb,  but  let  the  end  bone 
remain  for  a  handle.  Prepare  a  stuffing  with  the  veal, 
pork,  ham,  and  parsley,  all  finely  chopped  and  seasoned 
to  taste.  Remove  all  sinews  and  part  of  the  fat  from  the 
shoulder,  and  fill  with  the  above,  laying  in  between  the 
stuffing  the  truffles  (sliced).  Close  up  and  shape  neatly  ; 
sew  up  the  opening  with  a  needle.  Put  the  shoulder  in 
the  stockpot  for  about  five  minutes  to  harden  the  sur- 
face ;  let  cool  and  lard  the  top  with  larding  bacon.  Clean 
and  cut  the  carrot  and  onion  into  slices.  Line  a  brai- 
soire  or  deep  saute-pan  with  the  bacon,  put  in  the 
carrot,  onion,  bayleaf,  and  a  small  bunch  of  parsley, 
place  the  shoulder  on  this  and  brown  slightly  over  a 
brisk  fire.  Moisten  with  the  stock  and  the  sauce,  cover 
and  cook  in  the  oven  until  tender  ;  it  will  take  from 
forty  to  forty-five  minutes.  Take  up  the  shoulder,  skim 
the  sauce,  strain  it  and  reduce  a  little,  put  the  cooked 
peas  into  the  sauce,  add  a  pinch  of  sugar,  and  some  salt 
and  pepper  if  needed  ;  cook  for  two  minutes,  and  serve 
with  the  meat.     If  required  as  a  Releve  (remove)  serve  it 

36 


564  RECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

whole,  and  put  the  peas  round  the  dish  as  a  garnish  ; 
if  as  an  Entree,  put  a  bed  of  peas  into  the  dish, 
cut  the  ballotine  into  sHces,  and  place  on  top  ;  sauce 
over  a  little  and  serve  the  remainder  of  the  sauce 
separately. 

502.  Jambon  a  la  Marguerite. — 1  small  York  ham, 

1  carrot,  1  onion,  1  bouquet  garni,  No.  3,  peppercorns, 

2  shallots,  2  glasses  champagne,  1  oz.  butter,  1  quart 
stock,  1  lb.  pork  sausages,  1  pint  demi-glace  sauce.  No. 
185. 

Soak  the  ham  in  tepid  water  for  twelve  hours,  take 
out  the  hip-bone,  and  place  in  a  deep  braising-pan  with 
the  carrot,  onion,  and  bouquet  garni  (previously  pre- 
pared). Cover  with  water  and  cook  slowly  from  three 
to  four  hours,  according  to  size  of  ham.  Lift  out  the 
ham  and  pour  oft'  the  water.  Chop  the  shallots  finely, 
fry  in  butter  a  golden  colour,  dilute  with  champagne 
and  stock ;  lay  in  the  ham,  previously  trimmed  and 
pared,  and  cook  from  thirty  to  forty-five  minutes  with 
the  vegetables  and  peppercorns,  Add  the  sauce.  Parboil 
the  sausages,  cut  them  into  pieces  about  an  inch  long, 
egg,  crumb,  and  fry  in  hot^  fat.  Take  out  the  ham,  cut 
slices,  and  dish  up  ;  reduce  the  sauce,  skim  and  strain  ; 
garnish  the  dish  with  fried  sausages,  and  serve  with  the 
sauce. 

503.  Jambon  Braise  au  Champagne  (Braised  Ham, 
Champagne  Sauce). — 1  ham,  1  quart  of  stock  (or  con- 
somme), 1  tablespoonful  sugar,  a  Is.  bottle  of  cooking 
champagne  or  a  glassful  of  ordinary  champagne,  J  pint 
of  Espagnole  sauce,  2  cloves. 

Soak  the  ham  in  cold  water  for  twelve  hours  or 
longer.  Wash  it  well,  cut  oft'  a  portion  of  the  knuckle 
end,  and  place  in  a  large  saucepan  with  sufficient  cold 
water  to  cover ;  let  it  come  slowly  to  boil,  and  keep  it 
on  the  side  of  the  stove  for  three  hours,  so  that  it  is 
kept  very  hot,  but  not  boiling.  Remove  the  skin,  trim 
off  some  of  the  superfluous  fat,  place  it  in  a  deep  saute- 
pan  with  a  few  slices  of  carrot,  turnip,  and  a  bunch  of 
herbs  if  liked.     Add  the  stock  or  consomme,  the  castor 


KEMOVES  AND  ROASTkS,  WITH  HINTS  ON  CARVING.    565 

sugar,  and  half  the  quantity  of  champagne  named  ; 
then  place  it  in  the  oven  and  cook  until  tender.  Baste 
the  ham  occasionally,  and  glaze  it  with  the  reduced 
liquor.     Serve  with  champagne  sauce. 

504.  Dinde  Farcie  aux  Marrons  (Roast  Turkey 
stuffed  with  Chestnuts). — 1  medium-sized  tender  turkey, 
^  lb.  fresh  pork,  J  lb.  lean  veal,  6  mushrooms,  36  chest- 
nuts, 3  to  6  truffles  (if  liked),  1  small  onion,  herbs,  pars- 
ley, and  spice,  salt  and  pepper,  ^  gill  good  stock,  |  lb. 
dripping. 

Draw  and  singe  the  turkey,  cut  off  the  legs  and 
neck,  wipe  the  inside  with  a  damp  cloth,  and  break  the 
breast -bones  gently.  Remove  the  skin,  bones,  and 
sinews  from  the  pork  and  veal,  cut  it  up  very  small, 
and  pass  twice  through  a  mincing  machine,  or  pound 
in  a  mortar.  Peel  and  skin  the  chestnuts,  and  cook 
till  tender  in  stock  or  water,  drain,  and  break  up  small. 
Mix  the  chestnuts  and  meat  together  in  a  basin,  add 
the  mushrooms,  finely  chopped,  the  onion,  previously 
blanched  and  chopped  finely,  a  dessert-spoonful  of  finely 
chopped  parsley,  a  dessert-spoonful  in  all  of  chopped 
olives  and  savoury  herbs.  Season  to  taste  with  pepper, 
nutmeg,  and  salt ;  moisten  with  a  little  stock  and  mix 
thoroughly,  then  add  the  truffles  (if  liked),  cut  into 
slices.  Fill  the  breast  and  body  from  both  ends,  very 
tightly,  so  as  not  to  leave  any  space  unoccupied ;  truss 
neatly  the  same  way  as  for  roasting,  tie  and  sew  up 
with  twine,  so  as  to  keep  it  firmly  together.  Baste 
with  dripping,  and  roast  it  in  front  of  a  fire,  or  bake  in 
the  oven  in  a  suitable  roasting-tin.  Cook  for  about 
1^  to  2  hours,  according  to  the  size  of  the  bird.  Baste 
well  during  the  process  of  cooking.  When  done,  take 
it  up,  untie,  and  dish  up.  Serve  with  gravy  in  a 
separate  bowl. 

N.B. — To  make  this  dish  more  elaborate,  a  garnish 
consisting  of  groups  of  chestnut  puree,  stoned  olives, 
small  braised  onions,  and  mushroom  heads  can  be 
served  round  the  dish;  it  will  make  the  dish  much 
more  effective. 


506  RECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

505.  Oie  Rotie,   Farcie   (Roast  Goose,    Stuffed). — 

1  goose  weighing  from  5  to  6  lbs.,  1  oz.  dripping,  3 
onions,  18  sage  leaves,  2  oz.  chopped  suet,  4  oz. 
breadcrumbs,  1  egg,  pepper,  and  salt. 

Pick,  draw,  and  singe  the  goose,  wipe  the  inside 
with  a  damp  cloth,  and  stuff  in  the  usual  manner  with 
a  stuffing  made  as  follows  : — Peel  the  onions,  blanch 
together  with  the  sage  leaves,  strain  and  chop  finely. 
Chop  the  suet,  mix  it  with  the  onions  and  sage,  add  the 
breadcrumbs  and  the  egg,  previously  beaten,  season 
and  mingle  well.  Now  truss  the  goose  for  roasting, 
and  roast  for  about  an  hour  and  a  half  before  a  brisk 
fire  the  first  half  an  hour,  and  a  moderate  fire  after ; 
baste  occasionally.  Sprinkle  with  a  little  salt  just 
before  it  is  taken  up.  ^Yhen  done,  untruss,  place  on  a 
hot  dish.  Strain  off  the  fat  from  the  dripping-pan, 
and  keep  it  for  further  use.  Add  some  stock  or  gravy 
to  the  pan.  season,  boil  a  few  minutes,  strain  in  the  dish, 
and  serve. 

506.  Caneton  Roti.— Pick  and  draw  a  good-sized 
duckling,  singe  it,  remove  the  liver  and  heart,  care- 
fully wash  and  put  again  inside  the  bird.  Truss 
neatly,  put  it  on  a  baking-tin  with  a  little  dripping. 
Roast  it  in  the  oven  or  in  front  of  the  fire  for  about 
forty  minutes.  Remove  the  strings,  dish  up  on  a  hot 
dish,  pour  the  dripping  from  the  tin,  add  about  |  pint 
of  stock  or  gravy,  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and 
boil  up.  Strain  the  gravy  thus  prepared  over  the 
duckling,  garnish  with  some  picked  and  washed  water- 
cresses,  and  serve,  Apple  sauce  is  sometimes  served 
with  this  roast,  but  it  is  not  essential. 

507.  Caneton  a  la  Rouennaise  (Braised  Duckling, 
Rouenese  Style). — 1  good-sized  Rouen  duckling  (see 
foot-note i,  3  oz.  butter,  1  dessert-spoonful  of  chopped 
shallots,  1  bouquet  garni,  2  tablespoonfuls  fresh  bread- 
crumbs, 1  teaspoonful  chopped  parsley,  ^  liqueur  glass 
of  Cognac,  1  gill  claret,  ^  pint  stock,  ^  lemon,  salt, 
pepper,  and  a  little  spice,  1  small  onion,  1  dessert- 
spoonful flour. 


REMOVES  AND  ROASTS,  WITH  HINTS  ON  CARVING.    567 

In  drawing  the  duckling,  save  the  heart  and  liver, 
remove  the  gall,  wash  and  chop  all  fine ;  season  with 
salt,  pepper,  and  a  pinch  of  ground  spice.  Peel  and 
boil  the  onion  in  stock  or  water,  chop  finely.  Put  the 
chopped  onion,  liver,  &c.,  in  a  basin,  add  the  Cognac, 
chopped  parsley,  and  breadcrumbs,  melt  an  ounce  of  butter, 
mix  this  well  with  the  stuffing,  adding  sufficient  stock 
to  moisten,  and  put  in  the  interior  of  the  ducklings. 
Fasten  both  ends  with  string  and  truss  them.  Melt 
2  oz.  of  butter  in  a  braising-pan,  fry  the  shallots  a 
little,  put  in  the  duckling,  and  cook  over  the  fire  long 
enough  to  take  colour,  take  it  out,  put  in  the  fiour 
and  brown  a  little,  pour  in  the  claret  and  stock,  let  it 
come  to  a  boil.  Replace  the  duckling,  add  the  bouquet 
garni,  and  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice.  Cover  with  a 
lid  or  buttered  paper,  and  braise  in  the  oven  until 
tender.  Take  out  the  duckling,  joint  it,  but  keep  in 
shape,  and  dish  up  on  a  hot  dish.  Strain  the  sauce. 
Keduce  a  little,  strain  through  a  napkin  or  pointed 
strainer,  sauce  over  and  round  the  duckling,  and  serve 
as  Remove  or  Entree. 

Note. — Rouenese  ducklings  are  considered  superior 
for  this  dish  to  those  obtained  elsewhere.  In  Rouen 
they  do  not  bleed  the  ducks,  but  kill  them  by  thrusting 
a  skewer  through  the  brain,  thus  keeping  the  blood  in 
the  flesh ;  this,  together  with  a  very  careful  method  of 
feeding,  accounts  in  a  great  measure  for  the  superiority 
of  their  ducklings  and  ducks. 

508.  Pintade  Rotie  au  Cresson  (Roast  Guinea-fowl 
with  Cresses). — Singe,  draw,  and  wipe  two  guinea-fowls, 
place  a  piece  of  fat  bacon  inside  each,  and  truss  for  roast- 
mg.  Wrap  up  each  fowl  in  a  piece  of  buttered  paper  and 
roast  in  front  of  a  brisk  fire  for  half  an  hour  or  a  little 
longer,  baste  well  with  butter  or  dripping  while  roasting. 
When  done,  take  up,  untruss,  dish  up,  surround  with 
freshly  picked  and  washed  watercress,  seasoned  with 
salt,  pepper,  a  little  vinegar,  and  oil  (two  tablespoonfuls 
of  oil  to  one  of  vinegar).  Serve  with  fried  bread- 
crumbs, No.  516,  bread  sauce,  No.  183,  and  gravy. 


568  KECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

509.  Poularde  Rotie. — Singe,  draw,  and  truss  a 
large  poularde,  wliicli  is  a  large  spring  chicken  which 
has  been  fattened  up.  Baste  well  with  butter  or  drip- 
ping, roast  in  front  of  a  brisk  fire  or  bake  in  a  hot  oven. 
Baste  well  with  fat  and  turn  frequently  during  the 
process  of  cooking ;  dredge  with  a  little  flour  when 
almost  done.  Take  up,  pour  off  the  fat  from  the  drip- 
ping-pan, add  sufficient  brown  stock  to  make  the  gravy, 
boil  up  ;  whilst  stirring,  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and 
strain.  Garnish  the  dish  with  cress,  endive,  or  water- 
cress salad,  and  serve  with  a  boat  of  bread  sauce,  No.  188. 

510.  Faisan  Barde  au  Cresson. — Pick,  draw,  singe, 
and  truss  one  or  more  pheasants.  Cover  .the  breast 
with  a  thin  sheet  of  fat  bacon  (larding  bacon)  tied  on 
with  some  thin  string,  roast  it  for  30  to  40  minutes, 
according  to  the  size  of  the  bird.  Remove  the  string, 
dish  up,  garnish  with  bunches  of  picked  watercress, 
seasoned  with  a  little  oil  and  vinegar.  Serve  with 
gravy,  bread  sauce,  No.  183,  and  fried  breadcrumbs, 
No.  516. 

511.  Lievre  Farci,  EtoufFe  (Stuffed  Hare,  Braised). 

1  hare,  6  oz.  cold  poultry  or  game,  6  mushrooms,  1  egg, 

2  oz.  breadcrumbs,  ^  dessert-spoonful  of  aromatic 
seasoning,  1  teaspoonful  chopped  parsley,  1  of  chopped 
chives,  1  carrot,  1  onion,  3  cloves,  2  shallots,  a  bouquet 
of  herbs,  2  glasses  red  wine,  1  gill  brown  stock,  |  pint 
brown  sauce,  larding  bacon,  4  oz.  lean  bacon,  pepper 
and  salt. 

Skin,  draw,  wash,  and  wipe  the  hare  ;  cut  out  some 
of  the  fleshy  parts  from  the  sides  or  underneath,  where 
it  will  show  least,  clean  and  wash  the  liver  and  heart ; 
chop  these  and  the  flesh  cut  up  very  finely,  chop  like- 
wise the  cooked  game  or  poultry,  previously  freed  from 
skin,  bone,  and  gristle,  also  the  mushrooms  ;  peel  and 
chop  the  shallots.  Put  the  chopped  ingredients  in  a 
basin,  add  the  breadcrumbs,  aromatic  seasoning, 
parsley,  and  chives  ;  mix  well  and  moisten  with  the  egg. 
Stuff  the  hare  with  this,  and  truss  and  skewer  it.  Lard 
the  breast  and  sides  with  strips  of  larding  bacon;  cut 


REMOVES  AND  ROASTS,  WITH  HINTS  ON  CARVING.    569 

the  lean  bacon,  carrot,  and  onion  into  slices  and  put 
into  a  saute-pan  or  braisoire,  add  the  cloves  and 
bouquet  garni.  Place  the  hare  in  the  pan,  moisten 
with  the  wine  and  stock,  cover  with  buttered  paper, 
and  braise  in  a  moderately  heated  oven  for  two  hours  ; 
baste  occasionally.  During  the  last  half-hour  add  the 
sauce,  previously  heated.  Take  out  the  hare,  remove 
the  skewers  and  string  and  put  on  a  hot  dish,  strain  the 
sauce  into  a  stewpan,  skim  off  the  fat,  season  with  pepper 
and  salt  to  taste,  let  simmer  for  a  few  minutes.  Pour 
the  sauce  over  the  hare,  or,  if  preferred,  serve  it  separately 
in  a  sauce-boat.  A  garniture  of  quenelles  Godivean 
and  mushroom  heads  and  truffles  dressed  in  groups 
round  the  dish  will  improve  the  dish,  especially  if 
served  as  a  Remove. 

512.  Coq  de  Bruyere  Roti  (Roast  Grouse).— Grouse 
should,  like  most  game  birds,  be  well  hung  if  required 
for  roasting  purposes.  It  is  advisable  to  keep  them  hung 
unplucked  for  about  a  week.  Great  care  must  be  taken 
in  plucking  so  as  not  to  injure  the  skin,  which  is  more 
delicate  when  birds  have  hung  than  it  is  when 
freshly  killed.  When  plucked,  singe,  draw,  and  truss 
the  grouse  similar  to  fowls.  Mix  some  butter  with  a 
little  pepper  and  put  a  piece  of  butter  about  the  size  of 
a  nutmeg  into  the  body  of  each  bird  ;  hang  before  a 
brisk  fire  or  place  in  a  tin  if  done  in  the  oven ;  the 
former  method,  however,  is  the  best  and  more  correct 
way.  In  each  case  the  birds  must  be  very  liberally 
basted  with  either  oiled  butter  or  hot  bacon  fat.  Well 
hung  or  high  game  should  always  be  well  cooked. 
Grouse  take  from  45  minutes  to  an  hour,  according  to 
size.  If  cooked  in  the  oven  a  thick  piece  of  toasted 
buttered  bread  should  be  placed  under  each  bird ;  the 
toast  thus  used  is  served  with  the  bird.  When  done, 
take  up,  untruss,  place  on  a  hot  dish,  garnish  with 
watercresses  and  fried  breadcrumbs,  No.  516,  and 
serve  with  gravy  and  bread  sauce. 

513.  Becasses  aux  Huitres. — One  brace  of  wood- 
cocks, 18  oysters,  3  yolks  of  eggs,  2  oz.  breadcrumbs, 


570  RECHERCHE   COOKERY. 

1  oz.  butter,  j  gill  cream,  lemon  juice,  pepper  and  salt, 
mace,  ^  pint  demi -glace. 

Pick,  draw,  and  wipe  the  woodcocks ;  beard  the 
oysters  and  cut  them  in  quarters.  Mix  the  bread- 
crumbs with  the  egg  yolks,  the  cream,  and  butter,  add  a 
few  drops  of  lemon  juice,  a  pinch  of  ground  mace,  and 
pepper  and  salt  to  taste ;  mix  with  the  oysters  and  stuff 
the  bn'ds  with  this  ;  sew^  up  and  truss  for  roasting.  Put 
the  birds  in  a  roasting-tin  wdth  a  little  dripping  and  bake 
in  a  quick  oven  from  30  to  40  minutes  ;  baste  occasionally. 
When  done,  un truss,  dish  up  on  two  pieces  of  toasted 
bread,  and  serve  with  demi-glace  sauce. 

514.  Perdreaux  Rotis  a  TEspagnole  (Roast  Par- 
tridge, Spanish  Style). — Procure  a  pair  of  partridges 
ready  trussed  for  roasting.  Put  two  well- wiped  Gorgona 
anchovies  in  the  body  of  each  bird.  Line  a  small 
roasting-tin  with  a  few  rashers  of  bacon,  put  a  layer  of 
sliced  tomatoes  on  top,  place  in  the  partridges.  Add 
sufficient  salt  and  pepper  to  season,  also  a  few  sprigs  of 
parsley,  baste  well  with  oiled  butter,  and  roast  in  the 
oven  for  a  good  half-hour.  Baste  occasionally.  When 
done  take  out  the  birds,  untruss,  dish  up  on  a  hot 
dish,  skim  off  the  fat  from  the  gravy.  Add  a  teaspoon- 
lul  of  soy  to  colour  it ;  also  a  gill  of  good  stock.  Boil 
up  and  cook  for  a  few  minutes,  then  strain  over  the 
birds  and  serve. 

515.  Perdreaux  a  la  Crapodine  (Partridges,  Ciapo- 
dine  Style). — Fresh-killed  partridges  are  best  for  this 
dish.  Pluck,  singe,  and  draw  the  birds,  split  each  bird 
down  the  back,  spread  open,  wipe  the  inside,  flatten 
with  a  cutlet-bat,  and  skewer  them  so  as  to  keep 
liat.  Brush  over  well  with  sweet  salad  oil,  season  with 
salt  and  pepper,  dip  in  fresh  breadcrumbs,  sprinkle  over 
some  more  oil,  place  them  on  a  gridiron  previously 
cleaned  and  rubbed  with  a  piece  of  fat  bacon.  Grill  on  a 
brisk  fire  at  first  and  finish  over  a  slow  fire  ;  they  will 
take  from  20  to  25  minutes,  according  to  the  size  of  the 
birds.  Remove  the  skewers.  Dress  the  partridges  on  a 
liot   dish  pyramid  fashion,  and  send  to    table  accom- 


REMOVES  AND  ROASTS,  WITH  HINTS  ON  CARVING.    571 

panied  with  a  boat  of  Remoulade  sauce,  No.  218. 
Great  care  must  be  bestowed  on  the  grilhng,  so  as  not  to 
let  them  brown  ;  the  birds  should  be  of  a  light-brown 
colour. 

516.  Fried  Breadcrumbs. — Put  3  oz.  of  fresh 
breadcrumbs  in  a  frying-pan  with  about  J  oz.  of  butter. 
Fry  over  the  fire  a  light-brown  colour,  stirring 
continually,  and  place  on  a  sieve  for  a  few  minutes 
before  the  fire  to  drain. 

617.  PerdreauxRotis  al'Anglaise. — Procure  apair  of 
well-hung  partridges  ready  trussed  for  roasting.  Hang 
them  before  a  brisk  fire  and  baste  well  with  oiled 
butter.  They  will  require  about  20  minutes  to  cook, 
but  need  occasionally  basting.  When  done  untruss, 
dish  up  on  a  piece  of  toasted  or  fried  bread  ;  garnish 
with  a  handful  of  well  washed  and  picked  water- 
cress and  fried  breadcrumbs.  Serve  with  gravy  and 
bread  sauce. 


517a.  PRACTICAL   HINTS   ON   CARVING. 

A  bird  or  a  joint  of  meat  badly  carved  will  prove 
wasteful,  because  fewer  persons  will  be  served  than 
would  be  when  well  and  properly  carved. 

Anything  which  needs  to  be  carved  at  table  should 
be  dished  on  a  dish  sufficiently  large  to  allow  the  joint 
to  be  turned,  if  needed,  without  moving  the  dish  from 
its  position. 

The  dish  should  be  placed  close  in  front  of  the 
carver.  The  knife  used  for  carving  must  be  light  and 
sharp,  and  of  a  convenient  size. 

Such  joints  as  ham,  veal,  and  beef  should  be  cut 
very  thin  ;  whilst  pork,  lamb,  and  mutton  should  be 
cut  a  trifle  thicker.  The  carver  ought  to  be  fully 
acquainted  as  to  the  choice  cuts  of  each  kind  of  joint. 

518.  To  Carve  Fish. — A  silver  slice  should  be  used 


572 


RECHERCHE    COOKERY. 


for  this  purpose.  Great  care  must  be  taken  in  serving 
out  fish  to  prevent  breaking  the  flakes,  which  ought  to 
be  kept  as  entire  as  possible.  Short-grained  fish,  such  as 
sahnon,  Sec,  should  be  cut  lengthwise,  not  crosswise. 

519.  To  Carve  Sirloin  of  Beef. — A  sirloin  should  be 
cut  into  thin  slices,  with  a  sharp  firm  cut  from  end  to 
end  of  the  joint.  At  the  upper  portion  the  cut  should 
be  clean  and  even,  then  use  the  point  of  the  knife  to 
loosen  the  slices  from  the  bones.  In  carving  the  under- 
cut remove  the  superfluous  fat,  and  cut  the  slices  from 
end  to  end  in  the  same  manner  as  the  upper  portion. 

520.  Neck  of  Veal  or  Mutton. — See  that  the  neck  is 
properly  jointed  before  it  is  cooked.  Cut  the  joint 
diagonally  from  the  left-hand  side  into  slices  of  mode- 
rate thickness. 

HOW    TO    CARVE. 
2 


Neck  of  Veal. 


521.  Loin  of  Veal.— Cut  out  the  kidney,  turn  the 
joint  over,  and  carve  into  slices  of  moderate  thickness. 
Serve  a  slice  of  kidney  and  fat  with  each  slice  of  meat, 
having  first  inquired  of  the  guest  if  the  former  are 
desired. 

522.  Shoulder  of  Mutton. — This  joint  is  usually  sent 
to  table  lying  on  the  dish  the  reverse  side  to  that  which 
is  shown  in  the  illustration.     It  should  then  be  turned 


BEMOVES  AND  EOASTS,  WITH  HINTS  ON  CARVING.    573 

over.  Commence  carving  into  slices,  more  in  the  shape 
of  a  wedge  at  the  end.  Serve  a  small  sHce  cut  from 
the  bladebone  end  to  each  guest.  All  slices  should  be 
cut  through  to  the  bone,  as  shown  in  the  illustration. 
The  under  parts  of  a  shoulder  are  considered  the  most 
delicate,  but  it  is  essential  for  the  carver  to  consult  those 
at  table  as  to  which  portions  they  prefer. 


Shoulder  of  Mutton. 


523.  Saddle  of  Venison,  Iamb,  or  Mutton. — Com- 
mence to  carve  lengthwise  at  first  on  both  sides  of  the 
spinal  bone,  after  which  cut  crosswise  downward,  and 
detach  from  the  bone.  The  slices  should  be  cut  as  close 
to  the  bone  as  possible.  Hold  the  fork  firmly  in  the 
centre  of  the  saddle.  Large  slices  should  be  cut  in  two 
crosswise.  The  slices  should  be  from  h  to  J  of  an  inch 
in  thickness. 

524.  To  Carve  a  Leg  of  Mutton. — The  simplest  way 
to  carve  a  leg  of  mutton  is  to  take  hold  of  the  bone  end 
with  the  left  hand,  to  cut  the  portion  marked  a  with  a 
firm  stroke  of  the  knife  :  next  make  a  sharp  incision 
down  to  the  bone  at  b.     Cut  slender  slices  from  A  to  c, 


574 


PtECHERCHE    COOKERY. 


then  loosen  the  shoes  from  the  bone ;  then  turn  the  leg 
and  cut  the  under  portion  m  the  same  manner.     Another 


\ 

E  D 

way  is  to  reverse  the  leg,  commencing  to  cut  at  d,  pro- 
ceeding in  a  similar  way  as  above  described. 

525.  To  Caive  a  Turkey. — A  turkey  is  usually  large 
enough  for  a  small  company,  so  that  the  breast  and 
wings  generally  suffice.  The  slices  should  be  cut  from 
each  side  of  the  breast  alternately,  beginning  close  to 
the  wing.  A  little  stuffing  or  a  small  piece  of  liver 
ought  to  be  served  to  each  guest.  The  manner  of  cut- 
tins:  the  slices  is  shown  in  the  illustration.     When  it  is 


2: 

necessary  for  the  legs  to  be  carved,  they  should 
severed  from  the  body  and  then  cut  into  slices. 


be 


REMOVES  AND  ROASTS,  WITH  HINTS  ON  CARVING.    575 

526.  To  Carve  a  Calf's  Head. — Begin  by  cutting 
long  slices  from  end  to  end  of  the  cheek;  with  each  of 
these  slices  cut  a  thin  slice  of  the  end  of  the  head  or 
neck,  and  serve  with   a  little  sauce,  gravy,  or  broth. 


Showing  Manner  of  Carving  (if  served  whole). 

The  portion  round  th6  eyes  sliould  not  be  served. 
The  palate  is  usually  kept  for  a  separate  dish,  but  if 
the  whole  is  required  at  one  serving,  a  small  slice 
thereof  should  be  offered  to  each  guest.  The  throat 
sweetbread  is  probably  the  most  favourite  part  of  the 
head;  this  will  be  found  at  the  fleshy  part  of  the  neck. 
It  is  usual  to  cut  a  small  slice  thereof  for  those  who 
have  a  preference  for  it.  When  the  jaw-bones  are 
removed,  you  will  meet  with  a  delicately  flavoured  lean 
which  will  be  very  acceptable  to  those  who  do  not  care 
for  the  gelatinous  parts. 

527.  Duck  (Canard). — A  young  duck  or  duckhng  is 
carved  very  much  the  same  as  a  fowl.  First  cut  off 
the  wing  portions.  The  first  slices  of  the  breast  should 
be  cut  close  to  the  wing,  proceeding  upwards  to  the 
centre  of  the  breast  (breast-bone).  The  legs  are  next 
removed  and  cut  in  two  at  the  joints.  If  stuffed,  an 
opening  should  be  made  at  the  end  portion  of  the  duck, 


576 


RECHEKCHE    COOKERY 


and  tlie  stuffing  scooped  out  with  a  spoon,  allowing  a 
small  portion  to  each  guest. 

A  laro-e  duck  is  carved  in  the  same  way  as  a  goose. 


Showing  Manner  of  Carving. 

528.  Goose  (Oie). — Stick  the  fork  into  the  centre  of 
the  breast,  hold  firmly,  and  commence  to  carve  slices 
from  the  neck  down  the  breast,  as  sho^vn  in  the  illus- 


tration. Remove  the  wings  and  leg  bones,  and  com- 
mence carving  the  remainder  of  the  goose,  leaving 
nothing  but  the  carcase. 

529.  Partridges,  Woodcocks,  &c. — Put  the  fork  into 
the  breast,  cut  a  slice  from  the  outside  of  the  breast, 
then  cut  close  along  the  breast -bone,  severing  the 
wings  and  legs  from  the  carcase.  The  favourite  parts 
of  a  partridge  are  the  wings,  breast,  and  the  so-called 
merrythought. 


REMOVES  AND  ROASTS,  WITH  HINTS  ON  CARVING.    577 


MANNER  OF  JOINTING. 


Woodcock. 


Snipe. 


530.  Chicken,  Capon,  or  Poularde.  —  Stick  the 
carving-fork  into  the  leg,  hold  firmly  clown  on  the 
dish,  lift  it  up  and  loosen  with  the  knife,  cutting 
through  the  joint  at  the  back.  Divide  it  in  two  at 
the  second  joint.  Then  cut  off  the  wings,  and  lastly 
the  breast,  each  being  cut  in  half  crosswise. 

Some  people  prefer  to  lay  the  bird  on  its  side  and 
then  proceed  to  carve  in  the  same  manner  as  above 
described. 


578 


RECHEECHE    COOKERY. 


r^W?i^^  /, 


CHAPTER  X. 

DEESSED  VEGETABLES  AKD  SALADS, 

Suitable  as  Second  Course,  Savoury  Dishes,  etc.. 

(See  also  pages  284-288.) 

531.  Souffles  de  Pommes  de  Terre  a  la  St.  Louis. — 
8  kidney  potatoes  (not  too  large  and  of  even  size),  1  oz. 
of  butter,  J  gill  of  cream  or  milk  (about),  2  whites  of" 
eggs,  ^  oz.  grated  Cheddar  cheese,  salt  and  pejpper. 

Wash  and  scrub  the  potatoes  with  a  brush  ;  when 
thoroughly  clean,  dry  them  on  a  cloth,  put  them  in  a 
moderately  heated  oven,  and  bake  until  done.  Make 
an  incision  with  a  round  cutter  or  knife  at  the  ends, 
and  scoop  out  the  contents  by  means  of  a  teaspoon, 
taking  care  not  to  break  the  skins.  Rub  the  soft  parts 
thus  removed  through  a  wire  sieve,  put  it  in  a  basin, 
work  in  the  butter  whilst  warm,  heat  up  the  cream  or 
milk,  and  add  likewise  ;  beat  up  well  with  a  wooden 
spoon,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  and  mix  in  the 
cheese.  Beat  the  white  of  egg  to  a  stiff  froth,  and 
mix  carefully  with  the  puree.  Fill  the  potatoes  with 
this  preparation,  stand  them  on  a  gratin  dish  or  greased 
baking- sheet  with  a  little  puree,  so  as  to  make  them 
stand  firmly,  bake  in  a  quick  oven  for  about  ten  minutes,. 
and  serve  as  soon  as  done. 

532.  Pommes  de  Terre  a  la  Paysanne. — 8  cold 
potatoes  (boiled),  ^  pint  of  bechamel  sauce,  f  gill  of 
cream,  2  oz.  of  butter,  1  teaspoonful  chopped  parsley,. 
J  teaspoonful  chopped  chives,  salt,  pepper,  and  grated 
nutmeg. 

Cut  the  potatoes  into  squares,  put  them  in  a  small 
stewpan,  with  a  little  water,  on  the  fire ;   when  hot^ 

37 


580  RECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

strain  off  tlie  water ;  season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  a 
pinch  of  grated  nutmeg ;  put  in  the  sauce  and  cream  ; 
let  simmer  gently  for  about  ten  minutes.  Melt  the 
butter  in  a  frying-pan ;  add  the  parsley  and  chives ; 
fry  a  little,  and  mingle  gently  with  the  potatoes.  Pile 
up  on  a  hot  dish,  and  serve. 

Note. — The  reason  wdiy  cold  boiled  potatoes  are 
recommended  for  this  dish  is  because  fresh  hot-boiled 
potatoes  are  apt  to  go  to  pieces  and  get  pulpy  during 
the  process  of  this  preparation. 

533.  Pommes  de  Terre  a  la  Chancerelle. — Wash 
and  peel  8  to  10  large  kidney  potatoes,  scoop  out  by 
means  of  a  vegetable  scoop  as  many  balls  as  possible. 
€ook  them  gently  in  salted  water,  drain,  and  place 
in  a  stewpan,  add  J  oz.  of  butter  and  about  a  gill  of 
bechamel  sauce,  shake  over  the  fire  until  hot,  dish  up 
in  the  form  of  a  x^yramid.  Sprinkle  over  with  dissolved 
£sh  glaze,  and  serve. 

534.  Pommes  de  Terre  a  la  Gastronome. — 12 
medium- sized  potatoes,  2  truffles,  ^  glass  sherry,  ^  pint 
Espagnole  sauce,  salt  and  pepper. 

Wash  and  peel  the  potatoes,  cut  them  in  halves 
lengthwise,  stamp  out  with  a  tube  cutter  as  many 
round  tubes  as  possible,  put  them  in  a  stewpan,  cover 
well  wdth  w^arm  water,  add  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  cook 
for  about  twenty  minutes,  taking  care  that  the  potato 
shapes  do  not  boil  too  fast,  otherwise  they  will  break 
and  look  unsightly.  When  done,  strain  them,  and  put 
in  a  hot  dish.  In  the  meantime  chop  the  truffles 
finely,  put  them  in  a  smaU  stew-pan  with  the  sherry, 
and  cook  for  five  minutes  ;  then  add  the  sauce,  let  it 
reduce  slowly,  season  wdth  pepper  and  salt,  if  needed. 
Pour  the  sauce  over  the  potatoes,  and  serve. 

535.  Pommes  de  Terre  a  la  Bignon.  — 12  small 
round  potatoes,  J  lb.  raw  mutton,  2  oz.  fat  pork,  1  yolk 
of  egg,  1|  oz.  butter,  salt,  pepper,  nutmeg. 

Cut  up  the  mutton  and  pork  into  small  pieces, 
season  with  pepper,  salt,  and  grated  nutmeg.  Chop 
until    very    fine,    or    pass    twice    through    a    mincing 


DBESSED    VEGETABLES   AND    SALADS.  581 

machine,  and  mix  with  the  yolk  of  an  egg.  Choose 
the  potatoes  of  even  size,  wash  them  well,  and  peel 
thinly.  Scoop  out  part  of  the  inside  by  means  of  a 
vegetable  scoop,  leaving  the  bottom  uncut.  Blanch 
them  in  boiling  water  for  two  minutes,  drain  and  fill 
well  with  the  above  described  sausage-meat,  and  close 
the  openings  with  a  piece  of  potato.  Melt  the  butter 
in  a  saute-pan ;  when  hot,  lay  in  the  stuffed  potatoes, 
and  bake  in  the  oven  for  twenty  minutes.  Baste  well 
with  the  butter,  dish  up,  sprinkle  with  a  little  finely 
chopped  parsley,  and  serve,  or  use  as  a  garnish  for 
Releves  or  Entrees. 

536.  Pommes  Frites  a  la  Julienne. — Wash  and  peel 
some  potatoes ;  cut  them  into  small  shreds,  similar  to 
julienne  roots  ;  wash  well  and  dry  on  a  cloth  ;  throw 
them,  a  few  at  a  time,  into  plenty  of  clear  boiliAg-  fat ; 
shake  the  potatoes  about  in  the  fat  until  they  are 
crisp  and  of  a  deep  yellow  colour.  Drain  on  a  cloth, 
sprinkle  slightly  with  salt,  and  serve  on  a  folded 
napkin.  In  order  to  move  the  potatoes  well  in  the 
fat  so  that  they  may  be  equal  in  colour,  it  is  best 
to  use  a  frying-basket,  in  which  the  potatoes  are  placed 
for  frying. 

537.  Pommes  Soufflees. — Wash  and  peel  6  to  8 
good  medium -sized  mealy  potatoes,  cut  them  into 
slices  (lengthwise),  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick. 

Plunge  them  into  a  friture  of  moderately  heated 
fat  for  about  six  minutes,  lift  out,  let  cool  a  few 
moments.  Let  the  fat  get  quite  hot,  plunge  in  the 
potatoes,  move  the  basket  about ;  the  potatoes  should 
then  swell.  Drain,  season  with  fine  salt,  dish  on  a 
folded  napkin. 

538.  Pommes  Pailles.  —  Peel  6  medium  -  sized 
potatoes,  cut  them  into  thin  slices,  cut  these  into 
fine  shreds  about  li  in.  long. 

Wash  well  and  drain  on  a  cloth.  Have  ready  some 
hot  fat,  sufficient  to  well  cover  the  quantity  of  potatoes, 
put  the  potatoes  into  the  fat  when  very  hot,  and  fry 
for  about  six  minutes.     Take  out,  drain  well    sprinkle 


582  RECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

with  a  little  fine  salt,  shake  them  lightly,  and  dish 
up  on  a  folded  napkin  or  dish-paper. 

539.  Pommes  de  Terre  a  la  Duchesse. — Wash  and 
peel  about  two  pounds  of  mealy  potatoes,  boil  until 
done,  drain  off  the  water,  and  let  them  dry  in  the 
oven  for  a  few  minutes,  covered  over ;  rub  them  quickly 
through  a  wire  sieve  ;  whilst  warm,  mix  with  three 
yolks  of  eggs,  two  ounces  of  clarified  butter,  and  a 
tablespoonful  of  cream,  season  with  pepper,  salt,  and 
grated  nutmeg  ;  when  well  mixed,  turn  out  on  a  floured 
board,  and  make  twelve  parts  of  equal  size ;  give  each 
the  shape  of  a  square,  trace  a  few  lines  with  a  knife, 
lay  them  on  a  buttered  baking- sheet,  egg  the  surface, 
bake  them  in  a  quick  oven,  and  dish  up. 

640.  Pommes  Nouvelles  Sautees  au  Beurre. — Peel 
or  scrape  12  to  18  new  round  or  kidney  potatoes  (small 
and  even  size). 

Melt  2  oz.  butter  in  a  saute-pan;  when  clarified, 
add  the  ]Dotatoes,  cook  over  a  moderate  fire  or  in  the 
oven  ;  they  will  take  about  twenty  minutes,  and  should 
be  of  a  rich  golden  colour  when  done.  Season  with 
salt,  sprinkle  with  a  little  freshly- chopped  parsley,  dish 
up,  and  serve. 

541.  Pommes  Sautees  a  la  Suisse. — Slice  as  thinly 
as  possible  about  8  cold  potatoes  of  medium  size.  Melt 
1  oz.  butter  in  a  frying  or  omelet-pan,  put  in  the 
potatoes,  season  with  pepper  and  salt. 

Cook  over  a  quick  fire  for  five  minutes,  toss  very 
frequently  ;  put  them  on  one  side  of  the  pan,  so  as  to 
give  it  the  shape  of  an  omelet.  Allow  them  to  colour 
nicely,  then  tuin  out  on  a  hot  dish,  and  serve. 

542.  Pommes  Sautees  a  la  Parisienne.  —  Choose 
8  medium-sized  cold  boiled  potatoes,  cut  them  into 
slices  about  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick.  Put  about 
1|  oz.  butter  in  a  saute-pan;  when  hot,  put  in  the 
slices  of  potatoes,  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and  toss 
over  a  bright  fire  until  of  a  golden  colour.  Dish  up, 
sprinkle  with  a  little  chopped  parsley,  and  serve. 

543.  Pommes    Hachies    au    Gratin. — Cut    8    cold 


DRESSED    VEGETABLES    AND    SALADS.  583 

boiled  potatoes  into  small  squares,  put  them  in  a  sauce- 
pan containing  i  gill  cream  and  J  oz.  butter,  pre- 
viously warmed,  add  salt  and  pepper,  and  1  table- 
spoonful  grated  cheese,  heat  up. 

Butter  a  gratin-disli,  sprinkle  with  grated  cheese, 
strew  the  potatoes  on  this,  sprinkle  well  with  grated 
cheese  and  breadcrumbs,  place  a  small  piece  of  butter 
here  and  there,  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven ;  bake  a  nice 
light  brown,  and  serve. 

544.  Pommes  Chateau.  —  Peel  12  medium -sized 
potatoes,  cut  them  into  quarters,  round  off  the  sharp 
edges,  blanch  in  salted  water,  and  drain.  Put  2  oz. 
clarified  butter  in  a  saute-pan;  when  hot,  place  in  the 
potatoes,  toss  them  over  the  fire  for  a  few  minutes, 
then  put  in  the  oven,  and  bake  for  twenty  minutes. 
When  finished,  they  should  be  crisp  and  of  a  nice 
golden  colour.  Drain  on  a  cloth  or  paper,  sprinkle 
with  a  little  chopped  parsley  and  salt,  dish  up  in  a 
pile,  and  serve  hot. 

545.  Pommes  Parisienne. — These  are  prepared  in 
the  same  manner  as  "  Pommes  Chateau,"  the  potatoes 
being  scooped  out  in  little  round  balls,  by  means  of  a 
vegetable  cutter,  or  scoop.  In  blanching,  great  care 
must  be  taken;  they  should  be  brought  to  the  boil 
quickly,  else  they  will  be  in  pieces  by  the  time  they 
are  cooked.  Ten  minutes  is  ample  for  baking.  They 
are  mostly  served  as  a  garnish  with  fillets  of  beef, 
steaks,  or  tournedos. 

546.  Pommes  Nouvelles  a  la  Hollandaise. — Wash, 
scrape,  and  boil  about  two  dozen  or  more  even-sized 
new  potatoes  ;  drain,  dry,  and  put  them  into  a  vegetable 
dish.  Melt  two  ounces  of  butter  in  a  stewpan  ;  add  a 
tablespoonful  of  bechamel  sauce.  Work  up  well ;  mix 
with  one  yolk  of  egg  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon  ;  season 
with  a  little  white  pepper,  grated  nutmeg,  and  salt ; 
stir  a  little  longer  over  the  fire,  but  do  not  let  it  boil. 
Pour  over  the  potatoes,  and  serve. 

547-  Pommes  de  Terra  aux  Tomates  a  la  Savarin. — 
8  small  even-sized  potatoes,  4  firm  tomatoes,  1  onion, 


584  KECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

1  oz.  Parmesan  cheese,  2  egg  yolks,  ^  oz.  breadcrumbs, 
1  oz.  butter,  1  oz.  chopped  ham,  salt  and  pepper,  2 
slices  of  toasted  bread. 

Peel  the  potatoes,  cut  off  the  ends  of  each,  scoop 
out  by  means  of  a  column  cutter  the  centre  of  each 
potato,  fry  in  hot  fat  a  golden  colour,  and  drain. 
Put  the  butter  in  a  small  stewpan ;  when  hot,  put  in 
the  onion,  finely  chopped,  cook  just  for  a  minute  over 
the  fire,  then  add  the  Parmesan  cheese,  finely  grated, 
and  the  breadcrumbs,  stir  for  two  minutes,  remove 
from  the  fire,  add  the  yolks  of  eggs,  and  a  pinch  of 
salt  and  pepper.  Cut  the  tomatoes  in  two  crossways, 
squeeze  out  gently  a  little  of  the  juice,  chop  up  the 
ham  finely,  sprinkle  over  the  cut  halves  of  tomatoes, 
fill  the  centre  of  the  potatoes  with  the  prepared  stuffing, 
place  one  in  the  centre  of  each  tomato.  Brush  over 
with  a  little  oiled  butter,  stand  them  in  a  buttered 
baking-tin  or  saute-pan,  cover  over  with  a  piece  of 
buttered  paper,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  for  ten  minutes ; 
dish  up  on  rounds  of  freshly  toasted  bread,  and  serve. 

548.  Croquettes  de  Pommes  de  Terre  a  la  Moderae. — 
Wash  and  peel  about  2  lbs.  of  potatoes,  cook  them  in 
the  ordinary  way,  drain  and  dry  well,  and  rub  through 
a  sieve. 

Mix  with  2  yolks  of  eggs  a  tablespoonful  of  cream, 
stir  over  the  fire  until  set,  season  with  pepper  and 
a  little  grated  nutmeg,  and  allow  to  cool.  Chop 
coarsely  5  lb.  lean  cooked  ham,  2  oz.  chicken  or  veal, 
and  6  mushrooms  ;  mix  all  in  a  stewpan  with  2  table- 
spoonfuls  of  well-reduced  bechamel  sauce.  Roll  out 
the  mashed  potatoes  about  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick, 
cut  into  square  pieces,  place  a  small  quantity  of  the 
prepared  salpicon  in  the  centre,  fold  and  roll  to 
give  it  the  shape  of  a  cork,  taking  care  to  close  up 
both  ends.  Dip  in  beaten  egg,  crumb  in  freshly-made 
breadcrumbs,  and  fry  in  boiling  fat  or  clarified  butter 
a  nice  light -brown  colour.  Dish  up,  garnish  with 
parsley,  and  serve  as  a  side  dish,  or  with  a  meat 
entree. 


DRESSED    VEGETABLES    AND    SALADS.  585 

649.  Pommes  de  Terre  Farcies.  —  Select  eighteen 
small  but  even-sized  mealy  potatoes,  wash  and  peel 
them  thinly,  cut  off  the  ends  of  each  a  little,  scoop  out 
by  means  of  a  column  cutter  the  centre  of  each,  fry  in 
hot  fat  a  golden  colour.  Put  in  a  small  stewpan  one 
ounce  of  butter;  when  quite  hot  add  a  small  boiled 
Spanish  onion  finely  chopped,  a  handful  of  grated 
Parmesan  cheese,  two  egg-yolks,  and  a  tablespoonful 
of  breadcrumbs ;  season  and  fill  the  potatoes,  and 
bake  them  for  a  few  minutes  in  a  hot  oven. 

550.  Croquettes  de  Pommes  a  la  Dauphine.  — 10 
floury  potatoes,  5  yolks  of  eggs,  2  whites,  4  oz.  flour, 
2  oz.  butter,  1  oz.  grated  Parmesan,  pepper,  salt,  and 
nutmeg,  breadcrumbs,  and  frying  fat. 

Wash  and  peel  the  potatoes,  cut  into  quarters,  put 
them  in  a  stewpan  with  cold  water,  add  a  little  salt, 
and  cook  until  tender ;  drain  and  put  on  a  sieve ;  next, 
place  them  on  a  dish  in  the  oven  to  get  thoroughly 
dry,  and  then  rub  through  a  sieve.  Prepare  a  choux 
paste  with  |  pint  water,  butter,  flour,  and  1  whole  and 
2  yolks  of  eggs  ;  when  ready,  stir  in  the  potato  puree 
and  cheese,  and  season  with  pepper  and  a  little  grated 
nutmeg.  Butter  a  dish,  spread  the  mixture  on  it  to 
get  cool.  Shape  it  into  croquets  on  a  floured  board, 
egg  and  crumb  in  fresh  breadcrumbs,  place  in  a 
frying  basket,  fry  a  golden  colour,  drain  on  a  paper 
or  cloth,  season  with  a  little  salt,  dish  up,  garnish  with 
parsley,  and  serve. 

551.  Choux-E-aves  a  la  Creme.— 8  small  kohl-rabis 
(turnip-rooted  cabbage),  1  oz.  butter,  |  gill  Allemande 
or  Veloute  sauce,  2  tablespoonfuls  cream,  salt,  white- 
pepper,  nutmeg,  ^  pint  white  stock. 

Pare  the  kohl-rabis,  cut  into  quarters,  or,  if  large,, 
into  six  equal  parts.  Blanch  them  in  salted  water, 
plunge  them  in  cold  water,  and  drain.  Put  the  butter 
in  a  stewpan,  and  when  hot  lay  in  the  blanched  kohl- 
rabis, toss  them  over  the  fire  for  a  few  minutes  (they 
must  not  take  colour),  moisten  with  the  stock,  let  it 
come  to  a  boil,  take  off  the  scum,  put  in  the  sauce,  and 


586  RECHERCHE    COOKERY, 

cook  gently  until  tender  (a  little  more  stock  or  sauce 
may  be  added  if  found  necessary) ;  finish  with  the 
cream,  and  add  the  seasoning.  Dish  up  in  a  deep 
vegetable  dish,  and  serve.  Great  care  should  be  taken 
so  as  not  to  let  this  vegetable  boil  again  after  the 
•cream  is  added. 

552.  Laitues  Braisees  au  Jus.— 6  lettuces,  6  slices 
if  at  bacon,  1  small  onion,  parsley  and  herbs,  about 
1  gill  of  stock  (brown),  1  gill  demi-glace  sauce,  salt  and 
pepper. 

Choose  the  lettuces  of  even  size  (not  too  large), 
"take  off  the  greenish  leaves,  pare,  parboil,  cool,  press 
out  the  water,  but  keeping  them  in  shape.  Lay  them 
in  a  buttered  saute -pan,  season  with  salt  and  pepper, 
cover  with  slices  of  bacon,  slices  of  onion,  a  few  sprigs 
of  parsley,  and  some  savoury  herbs,  if  handy,  and,  say, 
I  bayleaf,  a  sprig  of  thyme,  and  a  sprig  of  marjoram. 
Moisten  with  stock.  Set  to  boil,  and  braise  in  the 
•oven  for  about  an  hour  and  a  quarter.  Take  out  the 
lettuces,  strain  on  a  sieve,  pare,  shape  them  neatly, 
and  dish  up.  Remove  fat,  &c.,  from  the  liquid.  Add 
the  demi-glace,  reduce  well,  strain,  and  sauce  over  the 
lettuces. 

553.  Choux  Farcis  au  Beurre. — 2  medium-sized 
cabbages,  i  lb.  mushrooms,  1  lb.  fat  bacon,  i  lb.  fresh 
breadcrumbs,  4  ^^olks  of  eggs,  I  lb.  sausagemeat,  2  oz. 
of  butter,  1  onion,  1  clove,  chopped  parsley,  pepper, 
salt,  &c.,  1  quart  of  stock,  1  gill  brown  sauce. 

Remove  the  loose  leaves  from  the  cabbages,  trim 
and  wash  well,  plunge  into  cold  water  containing  salt 
and  a  small  piece  of  soda  or  moist  sugar,  parboil  it  for 
fifteen  minutes,  strain  and  cool  in  fresh  water,  press 
them  gently,  cut  in  twos  longways,  remove  the  stalky 
parts,  and  put  the  cabbage  on  a  cloth.  Prepare  a 
stuffing  with  the  sausagemeat,  the  mushrooms  finely 
chopped,  the  breadcrumbs,  about  a  dessert-spoonful  of 
chopped  parsley,  and  the  egg  yolks;  season  with  salt, 
pepper,  and  grated  nutmeg.  Mix  also  an  ounce  of 
butter  with  this  preparation,  and  fill  the  centre  part 


DRESSED    VEGETABLES    AND    SALADS.  587 

of  the  cabbages  with  this.  Shape  them  neatly,  enfold 
them  in  thinly-cut  slices  of  fat  bacon,  tie  carefully  with 
string,  place  them  in  a  stewpan  or  deep  saute-pan,  add 
the  stock,  a  small  onion  stuck  with  a  clove,  and  an 
ounce  of  butter;  set  it  in  the  oven,  and  let  braise  gently 
for  about  an  hour  and  a  half;  baste  from  time  to  time. 
Drain  the  cabbages,  remove  the  fat,  and  dish  up.  Take 
the  fat  off  the  gravy,  add  the  brown  sauce,  and  reduce 
to  half-glaze  ;  strain  over  the  cabbages,  and  serve. 

554.  Chou-de-Mer  a  la  Hollandaise  (Sea-Kale  with 
HoUandaise  Sauce). — Wash  and  pare  and  trim  a  basket 
of  sea-kale,  put  a  tablespoonful  of  flour  in  a  stewpan 
(large  enough  to  hold  the  kale),  dilute  with  water, 
place  in  it  the  sea-kale,  add  more  water  to  cover,  and 
salt  to  taste.  Boil  till  tender.  Take  up,  drain  well, 
and  dish  up.  Sauce  over  with  Hollandaise  sauce.  No. 
170,  and  serve. 

555.  Poireaux  au  Gratin  (Leeks,  Gratin  Style). — 
Wash  and  trim  about  10  young  leeks,  boil  in  salted 
water  for  five  minutes,  drain  and  finish  cooking  in 
white  stock,  drain  again,  and  range  neatly  on  a  well- 
buttered  gratin-dish.  Season  with  a  little  pepper  and 
grated  nutmeg,  sauce  over  with  well-reduced  bechamel 
sauce.  No.  167,  sprinkle  over  with  grated  Parmesan 
and  breadcrumi3S,  place  a  few  tiny  bits  of  butter  here 
and  there.  Put  the  dish  in  a  brisk  oven  for  about  ten 
minutes  to  brown  the  top.  Serve  in  the  same  dish 
placed  on  another  with  folded  napkin. 

556.  Epinards  a  la  Bechamel. — Pick  and  wash 
about  three  pounds  of  spinach,  boil  it  in  salted  water, 
rinse  and  cool  in  cold  water  ;  press  out  the  water,  and 
pass  the  spinach  through  a  wire  sieve,  or  chop  it  very 
fine  ;  melt  in  a  stewpan  two  ounces  of  butter,  add  one 
ounce  of  flour,  stir  over  the  fire  for  a  few  minutes,  add 
the  spinach,  also  one  gill  of  fresh  cream,  and  a  small 
ladleful  of  bechamel  sauce ;  season  with  pepper,  salt, 
and  grated  nutmeg,  stir  until  thoroughly  hot,  stand 
in  the  bain-marie.  When  wanted,  dish  up  on  a  deep 
round  or  oval  dish,  smooth  the  surface  with  a  knife, 


588  RECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

and  garnish  with  fancy-cut  croutons  of  fried  bread  or 
fleurons. 

557.  Puree  d'Oseilles.^Wash  and  pick  about  1  lb. 
of  sorrel,  boil  till  tender  in  salted  water,  strain  well, 
and  rub  through  a  fine  sieve.  Melt  J  oz.  butter  in  a 
stewpan,  add  a  dessert-spoonful  of  flour,  cook  a  little, 
and  add  the  sorrel;  moisten  with  a  gill  of  cream  or 
stock,  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  stir  and  cook  until 
it  has  the  desired  consistency.  Sorrel  puree  makes  a. 
very  nice  garnish  for  fricandeau  of  veal,  veal  cutlets, 
paupiettes,  poached  eggs,  &c.  If  served  with  the  latter, 
the  dish  should  be  garnished  with  croutes  of  fried  or 
toasted  bread. 

558.  Petits  Souffles  aux  Epinards. — 2  lbs.  spinach,^ 
4  eggs,  1  oz.  butter,  §  gill  cream,  cayenne  pepper  and 
salt,  10  paper  souffle  cases. 

Wash  and  pick  the  spinach  leaves,  cook  them  until 
tender  in  plenty  of  boiling  water  (salted);  it  usually 
takes  about  twenty  minutes.  When  done,  drain,  plunge 
it  into  cold  w^ater  to  cool,  then  press  out  all  the 
moisture,  and  rub  through  a  fine  sieve.  Put  the 
butter  in  a  ste"v\Tpan ;  when  hot,  add  the  spinach  puree, 
season  with  a  good  pinch  of  cayenne  and  salt,  if  needed, 
stir  over  the  fire  until  hot,  separate  the  yolks  from  the 
wliites  of  eggs,  work  in  three  yolks,  one  at  a  time, 
remove  from  the  fire  before  it  boils,  whip  up  the  cream, 
and  add  to  the  mixture  w^hen  cool.  Whisk  the  whites 
of  eggs  to  a  stifi'  froth,  and  stir  in  as  lightly  as  possible. 
Have  ready  the  souffle  cases,  each  fastened  with  a  band 
of  buttered  white  paper,  about  an  inch  broad ;  pour  in 
the  souffle  mixture,  about  three  parts  full,  and  bake  in 
a  moderately  heated  oven  for  fifteen  minutes.  Remove 
the  bands,  dish  up,  and  serve  as  hot  as  possible. 

P.S. — It  is  rather  difficult  to  give  the  exact  quan- 
tity of  spinach  for  this  dish,  because  some  spinach 
requires  more  trimming  than  other,  but  when  cooked 
there  should  be  about  a  pint  of  it. 

559.  Garottes  Nouvelles  a  la  Flamande. — 1  bunch 
new  carrots,  1  oz.  butter,  ^  pint  white  stock,  |  table- 


DRESSED    VEGETABLES    AND    SALADS.  589 

spoonful  flour,  2  yolks  of  eggs,  |-  gill  cream,  a  dessert- 
spoonful chopped  parsley,  salt,  pepper,  and  grated 
nutmeg,  castor  sugar. 

Wash  and  scrape  the  carrots  (they  should  be  spring 
carrots,  all  one  size,  if  possible),  cut  them  in  halves 
or  quarters,  trim  off  a  little  of  the  inside  and  shape 
neatly,  parboil  them  for  ten  minutes  in  salted  water, 
drain  them  in  a  coUander.  Melt  the  butter  in  a  stew- 
pan,  add  the  carrots,  season  with  a  little  salt,  some 
pepper,  a  pinch  of  grated  nutmeg,  and  two  pinches  of 
castor  sugar,  sprinkle  them  with  the  flour,  toss  over 
the  fire  for  a  few  minutes.  Add  the  stock  and  simmer 
gently  for  about  twenty  minutes,  skim,  and  stir  occa- 
sionally ;  when  the  carrots  are  done,  add  the  yolks  of 
eggs,  previously  beaten  up,  also  the  cream;  stir  gently 
over  the  fire  until  the  eggs  are  set,  then  dish  up  neatly 
on  a  hot  dish,  besprinkle  with  finely-chopped  parsley, 
garnish  with  a  few  croutons  of  fried  bread,  and  serve. 

660.  Artichauts  a  la  Barigoule. — 3  globe  artichokes 
(medium  size),  ^  gill  sweet  oil,  3  oz.  fat  pork,  J  lb.  raw 
ham,  6  chopped  mushrooms,  1  tablespoonful  chopped 
shallots,  1  teaspoonful  of  chopped  parsley,  2  oz.  butter, 
1  oz.  flour,  i  gill  Madeira  wine,  1  gill  brown  sauce,  1  gill 
brown  stock,  small  bunch  parsley,  a  few  slices  of  carrots 
and  turnips,  |  onion,  3  slices  of  fat  bacon,  seasoning, 
Italienne  sauce. 

Trim  the  artichokes,  cut  off  the  stalks,  the  hardest 
leaves  from  the  bottom,  and  the  tips  of  the  other  leaves, 
wash  and  drain.  Put  them  in  a  stewpan  with 
salted  water  (cold),  boil  up,  cool  and  drain  ;  remove  the 
centre  parts  of  leaves  for  filling,  and  fill  with  a  stufliiig 
made  as  follows :  Chop  ham  and  pork  fat  very  finely, 
mingle  with  the  mushrooms  and  chopped  parsley  ;  fry 
the  shallots  in  a  little  butter,  and  mix  the  lot  together  in 
a  stewpan  ;  knead  the  butter  and  flour  together,  moisten 
the  stuffing  with  the  brown  sauce,  adding  likewise 
the  kneaded  butter  and  flour,  and  season  with  a  pinch 
of  salt,  pepper,  and  grated  nutm^eg.  Cook  well  and 
fill  the  artichokes  as  directed.     Place  a  square  piece  of 


590  RECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

bacon  on  top  of  each,  tie  each  artichoke  with  string  to 
keep  in  shape,  Put  the  remainder  of  the  bacon  in  a 
sante-pan,  also  the  carrot,  turnip,  and  onion,  all  sliced, 
and  the  parsley.  Lay  the  artichokes  on  top,  pour  a  few 
drops  of  oil  over  each,  add  the  wine  and  stock,  cover 
w^ith  a  piece  of  oiled  paper.  Cook  in  a  moderately  heated 
oven  from  forty  to  fifty  minutes,  and  baste  occasionally. 
When  done,  remove  the  string  and  bacon  fat,  strain 
the  liquor,  skim  off  the  fat,  add  about  a  gill  of  Itali- 
enne  sauce  to  this,  and  reduce  a  little.  Dress  the 
artichokes  on  a  hot  dish,  pour  a  tablespoonful  of  sauce 
in  the  centre  of  each,  and  serve  the  remainder  of  the 
sauce  separately 

561.  Artichauts  Entiers  a  la  Chasseur. — 3  medium- 
sized  artichokes,  ^  small  onion ,  1  shallot,  1^  oz.  butter, 
J  lb.  fresh  button  mushrooms,  ^  gill  Espagnole  sauce. 
No.  18-1,  1  dessert-spoonful  chopped  parsley,  about  six 
thin  slices  of  fat  bacon,  |  gill  of  white  wine,  i  gill  of 
good  stock  or  gravy,  ^  gill  rich  tomato  sauce,  2  table- 
spoonfuls  of  fresh  breadcrumbs,  salt,  pepper,  and  grated 
nutmeg,  a  bouquet  garni,  a  few"  slices  of  carrot  and 
turnip. 

Cut  off  the  stalks  of  the  artichokes,  trim  off  the 
under  leaves,  cut  off  the  tops  of  the  leaves,  pare  the 
bottoms,  remove  the  centre  part  of  plant,  wash  well 
and  drain.  Choose  three  of  the  largest  mushrooms,  and 
pare  and  turn  neatly ;  trim,  wash,  and  chop  the  re- 
mainder. Peel  and  chop  finely  the  onion  and  shallot, 
and  fry  in  butter  a  golden  colour  ;  add  the  chopped 
mushrooms,  stir  over  the  fire  until  the  moisture  of  the 
mushrooms  is  sufficiently  reduced,  then  add  the  bread- 
crumbs and  parsley,  season  with  salt,  pepper,  and 
a  pinch  of  nutmeg,  moisten  with  enough  sauce  to  well 
bind  the  mixture.  Fill  the  centres  of  the  artichokes, 
place  a  turned  button  mushroom  on  the  top  of  each, 
cover  with  slices  of  bacon,  tie  each  with  a  piece  of 
string  to  keep  in  shape.  Line  a  saute-pan  with  a  few 
pieces  of  bacon,  a  bouquet  garni,  a  few  slices  of  carrot 
and  turnip,  add  the  wine  and  stock,  put  the  artichokes 


DRESSED    VEGETABLES    AND    SALADS.  591 

neatly  in  the  pan,  cover  with  a  buttered  paper,  and 
braise  in  the  oven  until  tender  ;  it  will  take  from  forty- 
five  to  sixty  minutes  ;  baste  occasionally.  Untruss  the 
artichokes  and  dress  them  on  a  hot  dish.  Strain  the 
liquor  into  a  saucepan,  remove  the  fat,  add  tomato 
sauce,  and  a  little  Espagnole  sauce  if  needed,  reduce  to 
half  glaze,  finish  with  a  small  piece  of  fresh  butter, 
season  to  taste,  and  pour  round  the  dish.     Serve  hot. 

562.  Fonds  d'Artichauts  a  la  Mornay. — 6  to  8 
artichoke  bottoms,  1  small  tin  or  terrine  foie  gras, 
about  a  gill  Mornay  sauce,  No.  176,  some  chicken  or 
veal  forcemeat,  2  oz.  grated  Parmesan  cheese,  sherry, 
f  oz.  butter,  breadcrumbs. 

Turn  out  the  foie  gras,  take  out  the  pieces  of  truffles 
contained  in  the  pate,  and  chop  these  rather  finely. 
Put  the  foie  gras  in  a  mortar  and  pound,  add  the 
forcemeat  (enough  to  make  a  sufficient  quantity  of 
filling  for  the  artichoke  bottoms) ;  when  well  pounded, 
take  out  and  rub  through  a  wire  sieve,  put  into  a 
basin  and  mix  with  the  chopped  truffles,  and  a  table- 
spoonful  of  sherry  or  Madeira  wine.  Fill  the  bottoms 
with  this,  smooth  the  surface,  and  coat  with  a  thick 
layer  of  Mornay  sauce.  Spread  over  with  grated 
cheese  and  a  few  fried  breadcrumbs,  put  a  tiny  piece 
of  butter  here  and  there,  bake  in  a  hot  oven  for  ten 
minutes,  or  place  under  a  hot  salamander,  to  brown  the 
top,  and  serve. 

663.  Aubergines  Farcies. — 2  medium -sized  egg- 
plants, 2  oz.  butter,  6  mushrooms,  2  chopped  shallots, 
1  oz.  lean  bacon,  2  oz.  breadcrumbs,  1  oz.  suet,  1  tea- 
spoonful  chopped  parsley,  1  oz.  grated  Parmesan  cheese, 
1  egg,  salt  and  pepper,  1  gill  demi-giace  sauce. 

Cut  the  egg-plants  lengthwise  in  twos,  remove  a 
portion  of  the  interior  to  make  room  for  the  stuffing. 
Chop  the  bacon,  mushrooms,  and  suet  finely.  Put  the 
butter  and  bacon  in  a  stewpan;  when  hot,  add  the 
shallots,  and  fry  a  little ;  mix  in  a  basin  the  suet, 
parsley,  breadcrumbs  (previously  soaked  in  a  little 
milk),  and  Parmesan  cheese.     Season  with  pepper  and 


592  RECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

salt,  add  butter  and  shallots,  also  the  yolk  of  an  egg, 
or,  if  found  necessary,  the  whole  egg.  Mix  well,  then 
put  this  stuffing  in  the  aubergines.  Eange  them  in  a 
buttered  saute-pan,  sprinkle  with  a  mixture  of  bread- 
crumbs and  grated  cheese,  bake  in  a  moderate  oven 
for  half  an  hour,  or  more.  Dish  up,  and  serve  with 
•demi- glace  sauce. 

564.  Tomates  Farcies  a  I'ltalienne. — Select  eight 
or  nine  even-sized  tomatoes,  remove  the  stalks  and 
green  parts,  cut  out  the  centre  with  a  scoop,  leaving 
the  opening  as  small  as  possible,  and,  without  breaking 
the  sides  of  the  fruit,  remove  the  pulp  from  the 
tomatoes.  Put  into  a  stewpan  one  small  chopped 
shallot,  and  fry  in  half  an  ounce  of  butter  ;  add  two 
ounces  of  finely-chopped  cooked  ham,  fry  a  little 
longer ;  next  add  the  tomato  pulp,  a  glass  of  sherry, 
a  teaspoonful  of  chopped  parsley,  six  chopped  mush- 
rooms, and  a  small  handful  of  fresh  breadcrumbs  ;  mix 
well  over  the  fire,  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  and 
bind  with  one  ladleful  of  Veloute  sauce  and  two  yolks 
of  eggs ;  stir  again  over  the  fire  for  a  minute  or  two. 
Fill  the  tomatoes  with  this  preparation,  put  them  on 
a  buttered  baking-tin  or  saute-pan,  sprinkle  with 
breadcrumbs  and  grated  cheese,  drop  a  little  oiled 
butter  on  top  of  each ;  bake  in  the  oven  for  half  an 
hour.  Dish  up  on  a  hot  dish  ;  reduce  a  little  brown 
sauce  with  the  gravy  from  the  tomatoes,  pour  over, 
and  serve. 

565.  Tomates  a  la  Bouquetiere. — 8  medium-sized 
tomatoes,  1  tablespoonful  salad  oil,  1  gill  cooked 
macedoine  vegetables,  1  truffle,  2  oz.  cooked  tongue, 
2  oz.  cooked  chicken  meat,  1  dessert- spoonful  chopped 
parsley,  |  lemon,  1  oz.  French  capers,  salt,  pepper,  and 
cayenne. 

Steep  the  tomatoes  in  boiling  water  for  a  few 
seconds,  peel  them  carefully,  and  scoop  out  the  centre ; 
cut  the  tongue,  chicken,  and  truffle  into  fine  shreds 
or  dice,  put  these  with  the  macedoine  in  a  basin, 
season  with  oil   lemon  juice,  pepper,  salt,  and  a  pinch 


DRESSED    VEGETABLES    AND  SALADS.  593 

of  cayenne,  mix  with  the  capers  and  chopped  parsley. 
Fill  the  tomatoes  with  this  mixture,  dish  up  on  a  glass 
dish,  and  serve. 

566.  Souffles  a  la  Tomate. — 1  oz.  butter,  1  oz.  flour, 
1  oz.  ham,  1  pint  white  stock,  1  gill  milk  and  cream, 
1  small  onion  stuck  with  1  clove,  6  peppercorns, 
3  whites  of  eggs,  1  gill  concentrated  tomato  puree,  a 
pinch  paprika  pepper  and  salt,  souffle  cases. 

Melt  the  butter  in  a  stewpan,  mix  the  flour  with  it, 
and  let  it  cook  without  taking  colour  ;  boil  up  the 
stock  with  the  onion  and  peppercorns,  and  let  it  reduce 
to  half  its  original  quantity,  which  would  be  a  gill. 
Boil  up  milk  and  cream  together,  add  to  the  roux,  and 
strain  in  the  stock  carefully ;  cut  the  ham  into  small 
pieces,  and  add  also;  stir  the  sauce  well  until  it  boils, 
and  let  simmer  until  it  is  well  reduced;  rub  through  a 
fine  sieve  (take  out  the  ham),  add  the  tomato  puree, 
beat  up  the  whites  of  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  add  to 
the  mixture  with  the  seasoning.  When  the  former  is 
sufficiently  cool,  fill  up  three  parts  full  some  souffle 
cases,  and  bake  in  a  moderately  heated  oven  from  ten 
to  fifteen  minutes. 

567.  Champignons  a  la  Bechamel. — 5  medium- 
sized  white  cup  mushrooms,  5  eggs,  1  oz.  butter, 
1  dessert-spoonful  flour,  1  gill  milk,  toasted  bread,  salt, 
pepper,  and  nutmeg. 

Wash,  peel,  and  trim  the  mushrooms,  put  them 
in  a  saute-pan  with  sufficient  water,  boil  up  and  drain 
on  a  cloth ;  mix  the  butter  and  flour  together,  put 
it  in  the  saute-pan  with  the  milk ;  when  hot,  lay  in 
the  mushrooms,  heads  downwards,  season  with  salt, 
pepper,  and  a  little  grated  nutmeg,  and  allow  to  simmer 
for  about  ten  minutes.  Have  ready  the  five  eggs, 
boiled  hard,  peel  them,  cut  round  the  lower  part  of 
the  white,  and  remove  the  upper  part,  so  as  to  show 
the  yolks,  stamp  out  five  rounds  of  toasted  bread,  a 
little  larger  than  the  mushrooms,  butter  each  round, 
and  place  the  mushrooms  upon  them ;  put  one  egg- 
yolk  in  the  centre  of  each,  strain  the  sauce,  and  pour 


594  RECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

carefully  round  the  eggs ;  serve  hot.  If  the  sauce  is 
found  too  thick,  add  a  tablespoonful  of  ^Yhite  stock  or 
cream. 

568.  Champignons  Farcis. — Peel  a  dozen  large 
button  or  small  cup  mushrooms  (fresh),  remove  the 
stalks.  Prepare  a  stuffing  consisting  of  ten  preserved 
mushrooms,  chopped  fine,  fried  in  2  oz.  of  butter, 
add  two  shallots,  chopped  fine,  a  dessert- spoonful  of 
chopped  parsley,  and  a  tablespoonful  of  chopped  ham ; 
season  to  taste,  mix  well.  Fill  the  mushrooms  with 
this,  place  them  stuffed  sides  up  on  a  buttered  saute- 
pan,  sprinkle  the  surface  with  soft  breadcrumbs  and 
grated  cheese,  add  a  few  drops  of  oiled  butter,  bake 
for  ten  minutes  in  a  quick  oven,  dish  up,  and  serve. 

569.  Champignons  a  la  Diable.— Proceed  the  same 
as  above,  adding  a  tablespoonful  of  curry  paste  and 
a  good  pinch  of  cayenne  to  the  mixture  above  de- 
scribed; scoop  out  a  portion  of  the  head  of  each  mush- 
room, fill  up  with  the  stuffing,  place  (stuffing  upwards) 
in  a  buttered  saute-pan  or  in  small  buttered  earthen- 
ware souffle  cases,  sprinkle  with  breadcrumbs  and 
grated  cheese,  bake  in  a  quick  oven  for  ten  minutes, 
dish  up,  and  serve. 

570.  Flageolets  a  la  Poulette. — 1|  pint  French 
flageolet  beans,  1^  oz.  butter,  ^  gill  white  sauce,  1  tea- 
spoonful  chopped  parsley,  pepper  and  salt,  1  table- 
spoonful cream. 

Put  the  flageolets  in  a  stewpan,  with  a  little  salt 
and  half  an  ounce  of  butter,  add  a  quart  of  water,  and 
cook  till  tender  (if  preserved  flageolets  are  used,  boil 
only  for  a  couple  of  minutes).  Drain  in  a  colander, 
and  put  them  whilst  hot  in  a  saute-pan  with  1  oz.  of 
butter ;  toss  over  the  fire  for  a  few  minutes,  then  add 
the  white  sauce,  chopped  parsley,  and  cream  ;  season 
with  pepper  and  salt.  Mix  well  by  tossing,  not  stirring. 
Cook  for  a  few  minutes  longer.  Dish  up,  and  serve 
hot. 

571.  Petits  Pois  au  Jambon  a  la  Francaise. — Put 
three   pints   of  peas  into   a  stewpan  with  a  sprig   of 


DBESSED    VEGETABLES    AND    SALADS.  595 

green  onion,  one  of  green  mint,  and  one  of  parsley, 
a  tablespoonful  of  fine  sugar,  a  little  salt,  and  a  pint 
of  water  ;  cover  and  let  them  stew  gently  over  a  slow 
fire  from  twenty  minutes  to  half  an  hour  ;  remove 
the  heibs  ;  if  much  liquor  is  left,  pour  off  a  little, 
and  allow  the  remainder  to  boil  down ;  have  ready 
about  half  a  pound  of  lean  ham,  coarsely  cut,  fry  it  in 
an  ounce  of  fresh  butter,  sprinkle  with  a  dessert- spoonful 
of  flour  ;  add  this  to  the  peas.  Mix  well  by  tossing  the 
whole  over  the  fire,  dish  up,  and  garnish  with  fleurons 
(small  half-moon  shapes  of  puff-paste). 

572.  Stuffed  Onions  a  la  Moscovienne. — Peel  8  to 
10  medium-sized  onions,  parboil  them  in  salted  water, 
with  a  small  piece  of  butter.  Drain  on  a  cloth,  and 
cool.  Carefully  scoop  out  the  centre  part  of  each 
onion,  and  chop  very  fine,  with  about  half  its  quan- 
tity of  mushrooms.  Put  it  in  a  stewpan,  with  a 
handful  of  breadcrumbs,  season  with  pepper,  salt, 
and  a  little  grated  nutmeg,  moisten  with  a  little 
Espagnole  sauce,  mix  well,  and  stuff  the  centre  of  the 
onions  with  the  mixture.  Place  them  on  a  buttered  saut6- 
pan,  sprinkle  the  top  with  fresh  breadcrumbs,  put  a 
small  bit  of  butter  on  each  one,  and  bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  a  golden  colour.     Time  to  bake,  about  half  an  hour. 

573.  Petits  Pains  aux  Asperges. — 8  small  farthing 
rolls  or  little  dinner  rolls,  |  pint  asparagus  points, 
1  gill  bechamel  sauce,  1  tablespoonful  cream,  1  yolk  of 
egg,  salt  and  pepper,  nutmeg,  lemon  juice. 

Cut  the  tops  off  the  rolls,  scoop  out  the  soft  part  of 
the  crumb,  and  place  them  in  the  oven  to  get  dry  and 
crisp.  Boil  the  asparagus  points  in  salted  water  until 
tender,  drain,  heat  up  the  sauce,  and  put  in  the 
asparagus  ;  season  with  pepper  and  a  grate  of  nutmeg, 
beat  up  the  yolk  with  a  little  cream,  and  add  to  the 
above.  Stir  gently  over  the  fire,  long  enough  to  bind 
the  yolk  ;  lastly,  add  just  a  drop  or  two  of  lemon  juice, 
fill  up  the  rolls  with  this,  dish  up  on  a  folded  napkin, 
garnish  with  a  few  sprigs  of  fresh  parsley,  and  serve 
hot. 

38 


596  RECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

574.  Salade  a  la  Reyniere. — Wash  and  drain  two 
nice  French  lettuces,  tear  into  small  pieces,  toast  a 
slice  of  bread  about  one-third  of  an  inch  thick,  dip 
it  in  salad  oil,  put  it  in  a  salad  bowl ;  dress  the  lettuce 
on  this  with  alternate  layers  of  cooked  French  beans ; 
garnish  with  cooked  beetroot,  hard-boiled  eggs,  chopped 
chervil,  so  as  to  form  a  nice  design ;  season  mth 
pepper,  salt,  oil,  and  chilli  vinegar,  just  before  sending 
to  table. 

575.  Salade  a  la  Beauvilliers. — 1  carrot,  1  turnip, 
1^  cooked  beetroot,  1  small  cooked  cauliflower,  a  handful 
of  cooked  peas,  the  same  of  French  beans,  f  stick  celery, 
6  anchovies  filleted,  ^  lb.  Lyons  sausage  cut  in  thin 
slices,  10  stoned  olives,  French  capers,  salt,  pepper,  cold 
Ravigote  sauce. 

Peel  and  cleanse  the  raw  vegetables,  cut  into  half- 
inch  cube  shapes,  and  cook  separately  in  salted  water  ; 
drain,  cool,  and  put  in  a  basin,  add  the  cauliflower, 
divided  into  small  sprigs,  the  peas,  and  the  beans,  cut 
into  short  lozenge  shapes.  Cut  the  anchovy  fillets  into 
small  strips,  about  an  inch  long  ;  cut  the  white  part  of 
celery,  the  slices  of  Lyons  sausage,  and  the  beetroot 
into  fine  shreds.  Mix  gently,  season  with  pepper,  salt, 
and  a  little  Ravigote  sauce,  and  dress  neatly  in  a 
salad  bowl.  Garnish  with  groups  of  capers,  olives,  and 
finely-chopped  beetroot,  and  serve. 

Note. — The  Ravigote  sauce  may  be  substituted  by 
a  vinaigrette  or  mayonnaise  sauce. 

576.  Salade  a  la  Villeroi. — Cut  into  coarse  shreds 
or  thin  slices  one  small  cucumber  (pre^dously  pickled), 
one  small  cooked  beetroot,  one  lettuce,  three  cooked 
potatoes,  and  four  fresh  tomatoes ;  set  these  on  one 
side  and  prepare  a  dressing  as  follows :  rub  one  hard- 
boiled  yolk  of  egg  through  a  sieve  into  a  salad  bowl, 
add  three  tablespoonfuls  of  Valentine  sauce.  No.  216, 
one  small  teaspoonful  of  salt,  one  tablespoonful  tomato 
puree,  a  teaspoonful  of  prepared  mustard,  and  a  pinch 
of  cayenne  pepper  ;  mix  well  and  work  in  gradually  two 
tablespoonfuls  of  salad  oil,  one  of  French  wine  vinegar. 


DRESSED    VEGETABLES    AND    SALADS,  597 

and  a  dessert-spoonful  of  anchovy  essence  ;  add  the  pre- 
pared vegetables,  and  mix  carefully.  Dish  up  in  a 
clean  salad  bowl,  in  a  pyramidal  form  ;  place  the  heart 
of  a  nice  French  lettuce  in  the  centre,  ornament  with 
chopped  hard-boiled  eggs,  chopped  chervil  and  parsley^ 
and  a  few  French  capers. 

577.  Salade  de  Tomates. — 6  firm,  even-sized  tomatoes^ 
1  tablespoonful  vinegar,  2  tablespoonfuls  salad  oil,  1 
teaspoonful  mixed  mustard  or  "  Mustardyne,"  1  tea- 
spoonful  chopped  chives  or  parsley,  pepper  and  salt. 

Wipe  the  tomatoes,  scald  them  in  boiling  water  for 
one  minute,  drain  on  a  cloth,  carefully  remove  the 
stems  and  skin,  and  let  cool.  Cut  them  into  thin 
slices,  and  place  in  a  salad  bowl.  Now  prepare  the 
dressing.  Put  one  saltspoonful  of  salt  in  a  basin,, 
together  with  a  saltspoonful  of  pepper,  the  mixed 
mustard  or  *' Mustardyne,"  pour  in  the  vinegar  and 
oil,  and  mix  thoroughly  with  a  wooden  salad- spoon ; 
just  before  serving  the  salad,  add  the  chopped  chives  or 
parsley  to  the  dressing,  and  pour  it  over  the  tomatoes. 

578.  Salade  de  Homard.  —  1  large  freshly-boiled 
lobster,  2  hard-boiled  eggs,  2  firm  tomatoes,  1  large 
lettuce,  2  or  3  stalks  of  white  celery,  |  gill  mayonnaise^ 
1  dessert- spoonful  tarragon  vinegar,  pepper,  salt,  12. 
stoned  olives,  capers. 

Eemove  the  shell  from  the  lobster,  cut  the  meat 
into  small  pieces,  place  them  in  a  basin ;  peel  the 
tomatoes,  and  cut  into  slices  ;  wash  the  celery,  and 
cut  into  strips ;  put  both  with  the  lobster,  season  with 
pepper  and  salt,  add  the  vinegar,  mix  gently,  and  dress^ 
in  the  centre  of  a  salad  bowl.  Wash  the  lettuce,  andi 
cut  into  eight  portions ;  garnish  round  the  salad  with 
lettuce,  stoned  olives,  hard-boiled  egg,  and  capers,  forming 
a  neat  row.  Pour  the  mayonnaise  dressing  over  the 
salad  in  the  centre  of  the  bowl.  Decorate  tastefully 
with  lobster  coral,  finely  chopped,  capers,  &c. 

Note. — To  give  the  salad  a  better  effect,  the  head  of 
the  lobster  should  be  placed  in  the  centre  before  sending^ 
it  to  table. 


598  RECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

579.  Salade  de  Volaille. — 1  boiled  Tjhicken,  2  heads 
lettuce,  2  hard-boiled  eggs,  1  gill  mayonnaise,  1  table- 
spoonful  tarragon  vinegar,  12  stoned  olives,  1  table- 
spoonful  capers,  2  stalks  white  celery,  salt,  and  pepper. 

Bone  the  chicken,  cut  up  into  neat  small  slices. 
Wash  the  lettuce,  wipe  the  leaves.  Wash  the  celery, 
and  cut  into  small  pieces.  Put  chicken,  lettuce,  and 
the  celery  in  a  basin,  season  with  pepper  and  salt  and 
vinegar,  transfer  into  a  salad  bowl,  pile  up  in  the 
centre,  garnish  with  alternate  groups  of  lettuce  leaves, 
quarters  of  hard-boiled  egg,  stoned  olives,  and  capers. 
Pour  the  mayonnaise  dressing  over  the  centre  salad, 
decorate  the  top  with  hard-boiled  yolk  of  egg,  finely 
chopped,  capers  or  gherkins,  &c.,  according  to  fancy 
and  taste. 

580.  Salade  de  Perdreau  a  la  Carpentras. — 1  cold 
roast  partridge,  2  lettuces,  ^  head  celery,  mayonnaise 
dressing.  No.  212,  1  hard-boiled  egg,  1  truffle,  2  table- 
spoonfuls  vinaigrette.  No.  237a,  8  stoned  French  olives, 
1  tablespoonful  capers,  1  gherkin,  pepper  and  salt. 

Cut  the  partridge  into  neat  joints,  remove  the  skin 
and  most  of  the  bones,  put  in  a  dish,  season  with 
pepper  and  salt,  pour  over  the  vinaigrette,  and  keep  in 
a  cool  place  for  about  an  hour  or  more.  Wash  the 
lettuce  and  celery,  remove  the  green  leaves,  and  shred 
the  white  portions,  season  a  little.  Dress  the  lettuce, 
celery,  and  partridge  in  alternate  layers,  in  the  shape 
of  a  dome  or  pyramid,  in  a  salad  bowl,  mask  with 
stiff  mayonnaise,  decorate  the  surface  with  fancifully-cut 
slices  and  strips  of  gherkins  and  truffles.  Surround 
with  a  garnish  of  quartered  hard-boiled  eggs,  French 
olives,  and  capers,  and  serve. 

581.  Salade  de  Gibier. — The  remains  of  any  kind  of 
cold  game,  1  hard-boiled  egg,  2  lettuces,  pepper,  salt, 
cayenne,  mayonnaise  sauce,  No.  212.  Pickled  beet- 
root for  garnish. 

Cut  the  meat  from  the  bones  of  the  game,  remove 
the  skin,  and  cut  the  meat  into  medium-sized  dice. 
Trim  and  wash  the  lettuces,  pull  the  leaves  from  the 


DRESSED   VEGETABLES    AND    SALADS. 


599 


stalks,  and  shred  them  finely ;  cut  out  some  star  shapes 
from  the  white  of  the  egg,  chop  up  the  yolk  and  trim- 
mings, and  put  with  the  meat.  Dress  the  lettuces, 
meat,  and  mayonnaise,  in  alternate  layers,  in  the  shape 
of  a  pyramid  or  dome,  in  a  salad  bowl.  Sprinkle  a 
little  seasoning  between  each  layer,  cover  with  mayon- 
naise sauce.  Garnish  with  stars  of  sliced  beetroot  and 
hard-boiled  white  of  egg. 

581a.  Salade  a  la  Chinoise. — 2  large  cold  potatoes, 
2  truffles,  18  large  oysters,  2  cabbage  lettuces,  6  anchovy 
fillets,  1  glass  of  Chablis,  1  teaspoonful  of  chopped  parsley, 
1  ditto  chopped  chives,  salt,  pepper,  1  gill  Mayonnaise. 

Cut  the  potatoes  into  strips,  shred  the  truffles  finely. 
Blanch,  drain  and  beard  the  oysters,  wash  and  trim  the 
lettuces,  and  reserve  a  few  crisp  leaves  for  garnish. 
Put  the  potatoes,  truffles,  oysters  (cut  into  halves)  in  a 
bowl,  season  with  pepper  and  salt,  add  the  chopped 
herbs,  moisten  with  the  wine  and  allow  it  to  stand  for 
one  hour,  mixing  the  whole  from  time  to  time.  Pour 
off  a  little  of  the  moisture  ;  add  the  lettuce  leaves  and 
mix  the  whole  with  Mayonnaise  sauce.  Dress  in  a  salad 
bowl,  garnish  with  a  few  nice  lettuce  leaves  and  the 
anchovy  fillets. 


CHAPTER  XL 
SWEET  ENTEEMETS  (HOT). 

582.  Pouding  Louis  Napoleon. — 6  oz.  sifted  sugar, 
'6  whole  eggs,  2  oz.  flour,  dried  and  sifted,  1|  oz.  corn- 
flour, 2  oz.  pounded  almonds,  a  few  drops  orange-flower 
water,  1^  oz.  fresh  butter,  a  pinch  of  salt,  some  stewed 
■apricots,  peaches,  &c.,  crystalUsed  fruit,  meringue  for 
ornamenting. 

Separate  the  whites  of  eggs  from  the  yolks,  put 
the  yolks  into  a  basin  with  the  sugar,  work  it  with  a 
wooden  spoon,  beat  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  the 
ground  or  pounded  almonds,  the  orange-flower  water ; 
mix  all  gradually  with  the  whites  of  eggs,  the  flours, 
and  the  butter,  previously  warmed.  Fill  into  a  buttered 
pudding-mould,  bake  in  a  quick  oven  for  about  half  an 
hour,  cut  off  the  top  carefully,  scoop  out  some  of  the 
centre.  It  is  best  to  do  this  after  the  cake  has  stood 
for  some  time  on  a  sieve,  so  that  the  steam  may  well 
■escape.  Next  fill  up  the  opening  with  some  stewed, 
but  well-drained,  fruit.  Sprinkle  over  with  a  glass  of 
Maraschino,  dress  up  the  top  with  the  fruit,  to  give 
it  a  dome-shaped  appearance.  Have  ready  a  meringue 
preparation  made  with  3  whites  of  eggs  and  li  oz. 
fine  sugar.  Spread  over  the  top  gently,  but  evenly; 
ornament  a  little  with  the  cornet,  garnish  with  some 
crystallised  cherries  and  angelique,  put  it  in  the  oven 
just  long  enough  to  get  hot  through  and  to  set  the  egg- 
whites,  and  serve. 

583.  Pouding  a  la  Normande. — 6  medium -sized 
sour  cooking-apples,  3  oz.  butter,  6  oz.  sugar,  4  oz. 
fried  breadcrumbs,  1  gill  claret,  3  eggs,  vanilla  essence, 
1  teaspoonful  ground  cinnamon.     For  sauce  :  1  table- 


SWEET    ENTREMETS    (hOT).  601 

spoonful  apricot  jam,  1  tablespoonful  red-currant  jelly, 

1  glass  claret. 

Peel  the  apples,  cut  them  into  quarters,  and  core. 
Put  them  in  a  saute-pan  with  the  butter  and   about 

2  oz.  castor  sugar,  cover  with  buttered  paper,  and  cook 
in  the  oven  till  tender.  Put  the  fried  crumbs  mto 
a  basin,  moisten  with  the  wine,  cream  the  remainder 
of  sugar  and  eggs  together,  add  it  to  the  above,  together 
with  the  syrup  of  the  apples,  flavour  with  a  few  drops 
of  vanilla  essence  and  cinnamon,  mix  thoroughly,  and 
fill  into  a  well-buttered  and  sugared  copper  pudding- 
mould,  placing  the  apples  in  layers  between  the  mix- 
ture. Place  the  mould  on  a  baking-tin  in  a  moderate 
oven,  and  bake  for  one  hour.  Unmould,  and  serve 
with  a  sauce  prepared  with  the  ingredients  above 
stated. 

584.  Pouding  a  la  Victoria. — |  lb.  beef  suet,  4  oz. 
fresh  breadcrumbs,  3  oz.  flour,  4  oz.  apples,  peeled  and 
cored,  4  oz.  apricot  jam,  2  oz.  mixed  peel,  3  oz.  dried 
cherries,  3  oz.  sugar,  4  eggs,  1  glass  brandy,  1|  gill 
cream. 

Free  the  suet  from  skin  and  fibre,  chop  finely,  dry 
and  sift  the  flour,  chop  the  peeled  and  cored  apples 
finely,  and  shred  the  peel.  Put  these  ingredients  into 
a  basin,  add  the  cherries  cut  into  quarters,  also  the 
remainder  of  dry  ingredients,  and  jam.  Mix  thoroughly. 
Beat  up  the  eggs,  and  mix  with  the  cream ;  stir  this 
into  the  basin  and  work  well,  adding  the  brandy  last 
of  all.  Fill  the  mixture  into  a  well-buttered  mould, 
cover  with  a  buttered  paper,  or  tie  over  with  a  cloth 
(previously  buttered  and  floured),  put  to  boil  in  boiling 
water,  and  cook  for  an  hour  and  a  half,  or  more.  Un- 
mould, and  serve  with  a  hot  sweet  custard  sauce, 
flavoured  with  a  dessert-spoonful  of  Maraschino  or 
Cura9oa  liqueur. 

685.  Pouding  de  Bananes. — 2  bananas,  +  lb.  castor 
sugar,  3  eggs,  i  gill  milk  or  cream,  4  oz.  Coombs'  self- 
raising  flour,  1  oz.  butter. 

Cream  the  sugar  and  butter,  work  in  the  yolks  of 


602  RECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

eggs,  one  at  a  time,  add  the  flour  (sifted),  then  stir  in 
the  milk  or  cream.  Beat  the  whites  of  eggs  to  a  stiff 
fi'oth.  Peel  the  bananas,  and  cut  in  thin  slices.  Put 
both  into  the  mixture  (stir  in  gently).  Have  ready 
some  buttered  dariole  moulds  or  one  pudding-mould, 
put  in  the  preparation,  three -parts  full.  Steam  or 
bake  for  one  hour.  When  done,  turn  out  on  a  hot 
dish,  and  serve  with  a  syrup  or  sweet  sauce. 

586.  Pouding  aux  Cerises.  —  1  lb.  best  cooking 
cherries,  6  oz.  loaf  sugar,  an  inch  cinnamon,  1  gill 
cream,  3  oz.  flour  (Coombs'  self-raising),  2  oz.  castor 
sugar,  4  eggs,  the  rind  of  ^  lemon,  a  pinch  of  salt,  a  little 
butter,  J  gill  milk. 

Stone  the  cherries  by  means  of  a  wooden  skewer 
or  a  bent  piece  of  wire,  put  them  in  a  stewpan  with  the 
sugar,  cinnamon,  and  enough  water  to  cover,  cook 
until  tender,  and  allow  to  cool.  Mix  the  flour  with  a 
little  milk  and  a  pinch  of  salt,  boil  up  the  cream,  and 
mix  both  together ;  add  the  castor  sugar,  and  stir  over 
the  fire  until  the  mixture  becomes  smooth  and  leaves 
the  stewpan  clean.  When  cool,  add  the  grated  rind  of 
half  a  lemon,  separate  the  yolks  from  the  whites  of 
eggs,  and  work  in  the  yolks,  one  at  a  time.  Beat  up 
the  whites  to  a  stift'  froth,  and  mix  carefully.  Butter 
a  pudding-mould,  garnish  the  bottom  with  a  layer  of 
cherries,  and  fill  up  alternately  with  a  layer  of  the 
prepared  mixture  and  the  cherries  ;  cover  with  a  but- 
tered paper,  and  bake  in  a  moderately-heated  oven  for 
about  half  an  hour.  Turn  out  on  a  hot  dish,  and  serve 
with  a  suitable  fruit  syrup. 

587.  Pouding  Mousseline. — 2  oz.  butter,  1  lemon,. 
2  oz.  castor  sugar,  4  eggs,  2  oz.  flour,  f  teaspoonful 
vanilla  essence,  mousseline  sauce. 

Cream  the  butter,  add  the  sugar,  and  work  together 
for  ten  minutes  ;  then  add  the  rind  of  lemon  (chopped 
finely),  stir  in  the  yolks  of  eggs,  one  at  a  time,  likewise 
the  juice  of  half  the  lemon,  and  vanilla  essence.  Beat 
the  whites  of  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth.  Mix  carefully  the 
whites   and  flour    (previously   sifted)  with   the  above 


SWEET    ENTREMETS    (HOT).  60S 

preparation.  Have  ready  a  plain  charlotte  mould,  well 
buttered,  and  lined  with  buttered  paper ;  pour  in  the  mix- 
ture, cover  with  paper,  place  in  a  saucepan  three-parts 
filled  with  boiling  water,  cover  the  pan,  and  steam  the 
pudding  for  a  little  more  than  an  hour.  Turn  out  on 
to  a  hot  dish,  remove  the  paper.  Whisk  the  mousseline 
sauce  until  quite  frothy,  and  pour  round  the  pudding. 

Note. — This  being  a  very  light  souffle  pudding,  it  is 
essential  that  it  should  be  served  quickly. 

588.  Mousse  a  rAlsacienne. — 4  oz.  sugar  (castor), 
8  eggs,  4  oz.  butter,  1  orange,  ^  lemon,  mousseline  sauce. 

Separate  the  whites  from  the  yolks  of  eggs.  Cream 
the  butter  and  sugar  in  a  basin  or  copper  egg-bowl ; 
when  thoroughly  worked  and  creamy,  add  the  yolks, 
the  juice  of  the  orange,  and  that  of  the  half  lemon  (work 
in  gradually).  Whisk  over  a  stewpan  of  boiling  water 
until  it  begins  to  thicken  (this  process  is  exactly  the 
same  as  for  a  Genoise  or  a  Hollandaise).  Stir  in  the 
whites  of  eggs,  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth.  Have  ready  a 
charlotte  mould,  well  buttered,  and  dredged  with  flour, 
put  in  the  mixture,  cover  with  a  buttered  paper.  Steam 
in  the  oven  (the  mould  being  stood  in  a  saute-pan  or 
stewpan  three  parts  full  of  hot  water)  for  a  good  half- 
hour.  Turn  out  on  a  hot  dish,  sauce  over  with 
mousseline  sauce.  No.  638,  and  serve  quickly. 

589.  Pouding  a  la  Cannelle. — i  pint  milk,  3  oz. 
sponge  cakes,  4  eggs,  J  lb.  castor  sugar,  J  lb.  ground 
almonds,  an  inch  cinnamon,  2  oz.  butter,  grated  nut- 
meg, 1  tablespoonful  flour. 

Put  the  milk  and  cinnamon  into  a  stewpan  on  the 
fire  and  bring  to  the  boil ;  break  up  the  sponge  biscuits, 
put  them  in  a  basin,  and  strain  the  milk  over  when 
boiling.  Cream  1|  oz.  butter  with  the  sugar,  add  the 
yolks  of  eggs,  one  at  a  time,  stir  in  the  almonds,  and 
a  pinch  of  grated  nutmeg.  Beat  the  whites  of  eggs  to 
a  stiff  froth ;  stir  the  biscuit  mixture  into  the  prepara- 
tion of  eggs,  &c.,  adding  slowly  the  whites  of  egg,  and 
a  tablespoonful  of  sifted  flour.  Butter  a  pudding- 
mould,  sprinkle  well  with  breadcrumbs,  fill  three-parts 


604  RECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

full  with  the  above,  and  bake  for  three-quarters  of  an 
hour  in  a  moderately  heated  oven.  Turn  out  on  a  hot 
dish,  and  serve  with  a  hot  raspberry  syrup. 

590.  Pouding  a  la  Paysanne. — 6  oz.  white  bread- 
crumbs, 2^  oz.  butter,  about  |  pint  milk,  5  eggs,  ^  lb. 
sultanas  (cleaned),  1  heaped-up  tablespoonful  apricot 
jam,  2  oz.  castor  sugar,  J  gill  rum,  1  teaspoonful  finely- 
chopped  lemon  rind. 

Soak  the  crumbs  in  the  milk  for  half  an  hour,  drain 
off  the  superfluous  milk,  and  put  the  crumbs  in  a  stew- 
pan  ;  add  2  oz.  of  butter,  and  stir  over  the  fire  until 
thoroughly  hot.  Let  cool  a  little,  then  add  the  sugar, 
the  yolks  of  eggs,  lemon  rind,  sultanas,  jam,  and  rum. 
Mix  well,  beat  up  the  whites  of  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  and 
mix  in  gradually.  Butter  the  pudding-mould,  pour  in 
the  mixture,  cover  with  a  buttered  paper,  stand  it  in  a 
stewpan  three -parts  full  of  boiling  water,  let  it  come 
to  the  boil,  and  bake  in  the  oven  for  an  hour  and  a 
half.  Turn  out  on  a  hot  dish,  and  serve  with  a  sabayon 
au  rhum. 

591.  Pouding  a  la  St.  Jean. — J  lb.  chopped  suet, 
J  lb.  preserved  pineapple,  2  oz.  preserved  ginger,  J  lb. 
glace  pears,  3  oz.  soft  breadcrumbs,  i  lb.  sponge-cake 
crumbs,  1  lemon,  |  glass  Madeira  wine,  J  glass  St. 
James's  rum,  5  eggs,  2  oz.  castor  sugar,  i  gill  milk  or 
cream. 

-.^^  Have  ready  the  suet  finely  chopped,  the  pineapple 
cut  into  small  dice,  ginger  and  pears  chopped  finely, 
and  put  into  a  basin  with  the  cake  and  breadcrumbs. 
Moisten  with  the  wine,  rum,  and  juice  of  the  lemon, 
add  the  sugar  and  the  rind  of  half  a  lemon,  finely 
chopped.  Beat  up  the  eggs  thoroughly,  and  mix  with 
the  above.  Butter  a  pudding-mould,  dust  with  flour, 
pour  in  the  preparation,  tie  over  with  a  buttered  paper 
or  cloth,  and  steam  from  two  to  three  hours.  Remove 
the  paper  or  cloth,  turn  out  on  a  hot  dish,  and  serve  with 
sauce  Sabayon,  No.  633. 

592.  Pouding  au  Chocolat. — ^  lb.  Caley's  chocolate, 


SWEET    ENTREMETS    (HOT).  605 

^  pint  milk,  1  oz.  castor  sugar,  2  oz.  butter,  2  oz.  flour, 
2  oz.  cakecrumbs,  4  eggs,  f  teasponful  of  vanilla 
essence. 

Break  up  the  chocolate,  put  it  with  the  milk  in  a 
stewpan,  and  boil  up.  Melt  the  butter,  stir  in  the  flour, 
cook  a  little  without  taking  colour,  add  the  cakecrumbs, 
moisten  with  milk,  stir  over  the  fire  until  it  becomes  thick 
and  leaves  the  sides  of  the  pan  perfectly  clean.  Let  the 
mixture  get  cool,  then  work  the  egg-yolks  in  one  by  one. 
Whisk  the  whites  of  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  add  this  as 
well  as  the  vanilla  essence  to  the  preparation,  pour  into 
a  well-buttered  plain  mould,  cover  with  a  piece  of  but- 
tered paper,  and  steam  for  an  hour  and  a  half,  or  bake 
for  one  hour  in  a  moderately  heated  oven.  Turn  out  on 
a  hot  dish,  and  serve  with  chocolate  sauce. 

593.  Pouding  a  la  Berlinoise.  —  4  oz.  flour,  4  oz. 
butter,  4  oz.  castor  or  loaf  sugar,  4  oz.  almonds,  8  eggs, 
3|  gills  milk. 

Blanch,  peel,  and  shred  the  almonds  finely,  and 
dry  them  in  a  cool  oven.  Sift  the  flour  into  a  t3asin, 
stir  in  half  of  the  milk,  and  beat  to  a  batter.  Put  the 
butter  and  remainder  of  the  milk  in  a  stewpan,  let 
boil,  add  the  sugar  and  stir  in  the  prepared  batter, 
keep  stirring  until  it  begins  to  thicken,  then  pour 
into  a  basin  and  let  cool.  Work  in  the  yolks  of  eggs, 
two  at  a  time,  beat  well;  add  a  pinch  of  salt  to  the 
whites  of  eggs,  and  whisk  till  stiff ;  mix  carefully  with 
the  above  preparation ;  fill  into  one  or  two  well-buttered 
moulds,  cover  with  a  buttered  paper,  and  boil  from  one 
and  a  half  to  two  hours,  according  to  size.  Serve  with 
orange  sauce. 

594.  Pouding  de  Noel. — ^  lb.  sioned  raisins,  ^Ib. 
picked  and  cleaned  currants,  J  lb.  candied  peel  cut  into 
shreds,  1  peeled  apple  (russet)  chopped,  2  oz.  ground 
almonds,  the  rind  of  1  lemon  grated,  |  lb.  suet  finely 
chopped,  ~  teaspoonful  ground  cloves,  f  teaspoonful 
ground  cinnamon,  |  lb.  breadcrumbs,  ^  lb.  flour,  a  pinch 
of  salt,  5  eggs,  |  gill  milk,  |  gill  rum  or  brandy. 

Put  all  the   dry  ingredients  in  a  large  basin,  mix 


606  RECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

thoroughly,  work  in  the  eggs  one  at  a  time,  and  the 
mm  or  brandy.  Butter  one  or  two  pudding-moulds,  fill 
with  the  mixture,  tie  over  with  a  buttered  cloth.  Place 
the  mould  in  a  stock-pot  or  large  stewpan  three-parts 
full  of  boiling  water,  and  boil  for  about  four  hours. 
Add  more  boiling  water  when  needed.  Take  off  the 
cloth,  turn  the  pudding  on  a  hot  dish,  dredge  well  with 
castor  sugar  ;  pour  about  a  gill  of  rum  or  brandy  round 
the  dish,  and  light  the  same  the  moment  it  is  sent  ta 
table. 

595.  Pouding  Souffle  a  la  Ananas.— J  lb.  fresh  or  pre- 
served pineapple,  ^  pint  milk,  2  inches  vanilla  pod,  4  oz. 
butter,  4  oz.  castor  sugar,  4  oz.  Vienna  flour,  3  eggs, 
angelique  for  garnish. 

Put  the  milk  and  vanilla  pod  in  a  stewpan  on  the 
fire,  boil  up  and  let  it  infuse  on  the  side  of  the  fire  or 
in  the  bain-marie  for  about  half  an  hour.  Melt  the 
butter  in  another  stewpan,  stir  in  the  flour,  cook  a 
little  ;  strain  the  milk  into  this  and  work  it  vigorously 
over  the  fire  until  the  flour  is  thoroughly  cooked.  Re- 
move from  the  fire,  add  the  sugar  and  a  handful  of 
cut  pineapple,  stir,  and  let  cool  a  little.  Mix  in  the 
yolks  of  three  eggs,  one  at  a  time.  Butter  a  plain  char- 
lotte mould,  decorate  the  bottom  with  pineapple  and 
angelique,  stamped  out  with  a  plain  round  cutter.  Add 
the  whites  of  eggs,  previously  whipped  to  a  stiff  froth, 
to  the  mixture  ;  pour  it  into  the  mould,  cover  with  a 
buttered  paper,  and  steam  for  about  one  hour.  Re- 
move the  paper,  turn  out  on  a  hot  dish,  garnish  tastefully 
with  a  few  fancifully-cut  slices  of  pineapple,  and  serve 
with  a  sweet  sauce  or  syrup. 

596.  Souffle  a  I'Orange. — |pint  milk,  2  eggs,  2  oz. 
castor  sugar,  1  oz.  butter,  3  oz.  cakecrumbs,  3  oz.  bread- 
crumbs, 1  orange,  1  glass  of  Noyeau  or  Kirsch,  a  few 
glace  cherries. 

Heat  up  the  milk  and  pour  over  the  crumbs ;  cream 
the  butter  and  sugar,  add  the  yolks  and  one  white  of 
eggs,  stir  until  stiff ;  then  add  the  soaked  crumbs,  the 
liqueur,  half  the  orange  rind,  finely  peeled  and  chopped, 


SWEET    ENTREMETS    (HOT).  607 

also  one  dessert- spoonful  of  orange  juice.  Pile  up  neatly 
on  a  buttered  souffle  dish,  bake  a  golden  brown  in  a 
moderately  heated  oven  (about  half-an-hour).  Whisk 
the  remaining  white  of  egg  to  a  stiff  froth,  cover  the 
souffle  completely  with  this,  dredge  with  sugar,  garnish 
with  glace  cherries  ;  return  to  a  quick  oven  for  a  few 
minutes  to  brown,  and  serve.  This  souffle  is  also  very 
nice  served  cold. 

597.  Souffles  aux  Fraises. — |  pint  strawberry  pulp, 
1|  gill  milk,  f  gill  cream,  2  oz.  sugar,  2  oz.  butter,  1  oz. 
flour,  I  oz.  fecule  de  riz,  or  ground  rice,  3  eggs,  a  few 
drops  of  cochineal  or  liquid  carmine. 

Put  the  milk  and  cream  in  a  stewpan,  let  it  come 
to  the  boil,  add  the  sugar  and  butter,  stir  in  whilst 
boiling  the  flour  and  fecule,  or  ground  rice,  previously 
mixed  and  passed  through  a  sieve.  Stir  with  a  wooden 
spoon  over  the  fire  until  it  is  thick,  and  has  the  appear- 
ance of  choux-paste  mixture.  Let  it  cool,  and  add  by 
degrees  the  yolks  of  eggs.  Add  the  strawberry  pulp, 
mix  thoroughly,  colour  with  a  few  drops  of  cochineal 
or  carmine,  if  found  necessary ;  beat  the  whites  of  egg 
to  a  stiff  froth,  adding  a  pinch  of  salt  before  com- 
mencing to  whisk,  and  stir  gently  into  the  mixture ; 
pour  into  a  well-buttered  souffle  tin,  bake  for  half  an 
hour,  turn  out,  and  serve  with  strawberry  syrup. 

Note.  —  Souffle  Puddings.  —  If  a  steamed  pudding 
fails  to  turn  out  readily,  plunge  the  mould  into  cold 
water  for  an  instant ;  this  will  loosen  the  pudding  from 
the  sides  of  the  mould. 

598.  Pouding  Souffle  aux  Framboises. — |  lb.  ripe 
raspberries,  4  eggs,  2  oz.  cakecrumbs  or  fresh  bread- 
crumbs, 2  oz.  castor  sugar,  2  oz.  fecule,  or  creme  de 
riz,  f  oz.  butter,  |  gill  cream. 

Pick  the  stalks  from  the  strawberries,  put  them  in 
a  basin  with  the  cream,  and  mash  up  small ;  add  the 
sugar  and  crumbs.  Separate  the  yolks  of  eggs  from 
the  whites,  put  the  fecule  or  creme  de  riz  in  a  basin, 
stir  into  this  the  egg-yolks ;  when  smooth,  add  to  the 
mixture,  whisk  the  whites  of  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  and 


608  RECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

mix  gradually  with  tlie  above.  Have  ready  a  well- 
buttered  charlotte  mould,  lined  with  buttered  paper. 
Bake  in  a  hot  oven  for  about  twenty -five  minutes.  As 
soon  as  cooked,  turn  out  the  pudding,  send  to  table. 
Serve  a  suitable  sauce  or  syrup  along  with  the  pudding. 

599.  Pouding  Soufile  a  la  Parinentier. — Wash  6 
large  potatoes,  bake  them  in  their  skins  in  the  oven ; 
when  done,  break  the  skin,  scoop  out  the  floury  part 
of  the  potatoes,  rub  through  a  sieve.  To  every  |  lb.  of 
puree,  mix  2  oz.  of  finely  sifted  sugar,  2  oz.  butter, 
I  pint  boiling  cream,  and  the  rind  of  half  a  lemon,  finely 
chopped. 

Beat  the  mixture  with  a  wooden  spoon  until  per- 
fectly smooth,  add  3  to  4  yolks  of  eggs,  beat  the  whites 
of  4  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth  ;  butter  and  flour  a  soufile-tin, 
fasten  a  paper  band,  well  oiled,  round  the  top,  to 
prevent  the  mixture  overflowing,  bake  from  fifteen  to 
twenty  minutes  in  a  well-heated  oven,  turn  out  and  serve 
as  soon  as  ready. 

600.  Bordure  de  Poires  a  la  Reine. — 2  lb.  small 
stewing  pears,  1  lb.  loaf  sugar,  1  oz.  butter,  1  inch 
whole  cinnamon,  5  sponge  cakes  or  a  piece  of  Genoise 
cake,  2  w^hole  and  1  yolk  of  eggs,  2  oz.  castor  sugar, 
1  gill  milk,  rind  of  half  a  lemon. 

Peel  the  pears,  core  them,  and  put  in  a  stewpan 
with  a  quart  of  water,  the  loaf  sugar,  the  piece  of 
cinnamon,  and  a  few  drops  of  cochineal.  Let  it  boil 
up,  skim,  and  allow  to  simmer  until  the  pears  are 
tender  ;  this  will  take  about  half  an  hour.  Take  out 
the  fruit,  reduce  the  syrup  to  the  proper  consistency, 
put  the  pears  in  the  syrup  again,  and  keep  warm. 
Butter  a  border-mould  with  clarified  butter,  line  the 
bottom  with  a  piece  of  buttered  paper,  beat  up  the 
eggs  in  a  basin,  add  the  castor  sugar,  milk,  lemon 
rind,  finely  chopped,  and  a  few  drops  of  cochineal,  to 
give  it  a  pink  colour.  Cut  the  cake  in  slices,  place  it 
in  the  mould,  fill  up  with  the  custard  mixture,  and 
stand  the  mould  in  a  sautoir  or  baking-tin  half  filled 
with  boiling  water  ;  cover  with  buttered  paper,  and  bake 


SWEET    ENTREMETS    (HOT)  .  609 

in  the  oven  for  forty  minutes.  Turn  out  on  a  hot  dish^ 
remove  the  paper,  arrange  the  pears  in  a  row  on  the 
border.  Strain  the  syrup,  pour  over  the  pears,  and 
serve. 

601.  Poires  au  Riz  a  la  Marquise. — Obtain  a  quart 
tin  of  preserved  Bartlett  pears,  open  the  tin,  and  heat 
half  in  a  well-tinned  stewpan  ;  strain  on  a  sieve,  and 
reduce  the  syrup  with  2  liqueur  glasses  of  vanilla 
liqueur  or  Maraschino.  Wash  ^  lb.  (|  pint)  rice,  drain 
and  cook  in  not  quite  a  pint  of  milk,  with  2  oz.  castor 
sugar,  }  oz.  butter,  and  the  rind  of  i  lemon,  chopped 
fine.  When  done,  bind  with  2  yolks  of  eggs,  butter  a 
flat  pudding-mould,  fill  in  the  prepared  rice,  turn  out 
on  a  dish.  Dress  the  pears  neatly  in  a  pyramidal 
form  on  the  top,  beat  up  two  whites  of  eggs  to  a  stiff 
froth,  add  sufficient  castor  sugar  to  sweeten,  spread 
the  surface  and  sides  thickly  with  this.  Ornament  a 
little,  dust  with  sugar,  and  bake  in  a  moderately  heated 
oven  for  fifteen  minutes. 

602.  Casserole  de  Pommes  au  Riz. — 6  cooking-apples 
(Wellington  or  Newtown),  4  oz.  rice,  1  oz.  butter, 
1^  pint  milk,  3  oz.  castor  sugar,  i  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
1  oz.  chopped  almonds,  1  oz.  orange  peel,  1  yolk  and 
1  whole  egg,  1|  oz.  glace  cherries. 

Peel  and  core  the  apples,  put  them  in  a  saute-pan 
with  2  oz.  sugar  and  a  gill  of  water,  put  the  lid  on, 
and  place  in  a  hot  oven  until  tender.  Wash  the  rice 
in  lukewarm  water,  drain  well,  and  put  into  a  stewpan 
with  the  milk  (which  must  be  hot),  cook  slowly  until 
the  rice  is  almost  done.  Remove  from  the  stove,  and 
add  the  orange  peel,  finely  chopped,  the  cherries,  cut 
into  small  dice,  the  almonds,  chopped  and  pounded, 
the  butter,  the  remaining  ounce  of  sugar,  and  the  salt. 
Mix  well  together,  adding  the  eggs  at  the  same  time. 
Have  ready  a  round  timbale  mould,  butter  it  well, 
sprinkle  with  breadcrumbs,  and  line  bottom  and  sides 
thickly  with  the  prepared  rice.  Place  the  apples  in 
the  centre,  leaving  out  one  for  garnish,  and  cover  with 
rice  until  full ;  tie  over  with  a  buttered  cloth,  stand  it 


610  RECHEBCHE    COOKERY. 

in  a  deep  stewpan  half  filled  with  boiling  water,  cover 
over  and  cook  for  an  hour.  Remove  the  mould,  let 
drain  for  a  minute,  then  turn  out  on  a  hot  dish,  place 
the  apple  put  aside  on  top,  ornament  with  a  few  cherries, 
and  serve  with  Sauce  au  Liqueur. 

603.  Pommes  Etouffees  a  la  Polonaise. — 4  to  6  sour 
cooking-apples,  2  tablespoonfuls  apricot  jam,  2  whites 
of  eggs,  3  oz.  castor  sugar,  2  oz.  crushed  macaroons, 
^  teaspoonful  cinnamon. 

Peel  the  apples,  take  out  the  cores,  and  cut  them 
into  shces  (crossways),  about  ^  inch  thick.  Spread  the 
slices  with  apricot  jam  or  marmalade,  and  pile  up  in  a 
dome  shape  on  a  round  silver  or  fire-proof  china 
dish,  previously  buttered,  and  sprinkled  with  crushed 
macaroons.  Mix  about  an  ounce  of  sugar  with  the 
macaroons  and  ground  cinnamon,  and  besprinkle  the 
apple  shape  with  this.  Whisk  the  whites  of  eggs  to  a 
stiff  froth,  add  about  2  oz.  sugar  and  the  remainder  of 
macaroons,  mask  the  surface  of  apples  with  this,  dredge 
with  sugar,  and  bake  in  a  moderately  heated  oven  from 
thirty  to  forty  minutes.  Serve  as  soon  as  done,  placing 
the  dish  on  a  napkin  on  another  dish  of  similar  size. 

604.  Peches  au  Riz  Meringuee. — 1  quart  St.  Jose 
peaches,  6  oz.  rice,  the  rind  of  J  lemon,  4  eggs,  10  oz. 
castor  sugar,  about  1  quart  milk,  1  oz.  butter,  red-currant 
jelly,  1  glass  Maraschino. 

Wash  the  rice  in  several  waters,  blanch  it  and  drain 
well,  put  it  in  a  stewpan  with  the  milk,  boil  gently, 
add  3  oz.  sugar,  the  butter,  and  lemon  rind.  Let  it 
cook  slowly  for  about  thirty  minutes  ;  remove  the  lemon 
rind,  work  in  the  yolks  of  3  eggs,  put  into  a  buttered 
timbale  mould,  turn  out  immediately  on  a  hot  dish, 
strain  the  peaches  on  a  hair  sieve,  and  arrange  them  in 
a  pyramidal  form  on  top  of  the  rice.  Beat  the  whites  of 
4  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  stir  in  gently  5  oz.  castor  sugar, 
and  cover  the  whole  completely  with  a  thick  layer  of 
this ;  put  the  remainder  in  a  paper  cornet  or  forcing- 
bag,  and  decorate  the  surface  to  taste.  Dust  well  with 
sugar,  and  bake  a  golden  colour,  which  will  take  about 


SWEET    ENTREMETS    (HOT).  611 

twenty  minutes.  Cut  some  diamond  shapes  of  red- 
currant  jelly,  and  garnish  the  sides  of  the  dish  just 
before  serving.  Add  the  liqueur  to  the  syrup,  boil  up, 
strain,  and  serve  separately  in  a  sauce-bowl. 

605.  Suedoise  d'Abricots. — Choose  12  large  apricots, 
halve  them,  remove  stones,  and  blanch  the  kernels  ; 
make  a  syrup  with  i  lb.  loaf  sugar  and  |  pint  water. 
Put  in  the  apricots  whilst  the  syrup  boils,  add  a  small 
glass  of  Curacoa,  and  allow  it  to  simmer  for  a  few 
minutes  ;  drain  the  fruit  on  a  hair  sieve  ;  cut  a  cork- 
shaped  piece  of  bread,  about  B  inches  long,  also  24 
round  slices,  about  the  shape  of  halves  of  apricots  ;  fry 
these  in  hot  butter,  drain,  sprinkle  with  a  little  ground 
cinnamon  and  castor  sugar  ;  fasten  the  large  crouton 
on  the  centre  of  a  round  dish  with  a  little  marmalade ,; 
put  each  half  apricot  on  one  of  the  small  croutons, 
range  them  in  rows  round  the  centre  piece,  finishing 
with  a  fruit  on  the  top ;  stand  the  dish  in  the  oven  to 
get  hot,  boil  up  the  syrup,  pour  over  the  apricots,  put 
half  of  a  kernel  upon  each  fruit ;  ornament  with  a  few 
strips  of  angelique,  and  serve. 

606.  Bordure  de  Fruits  a  la  Nationale. — Prepare 
some  peaches,  apricots,  grapes,  strawberries,  and  slices 
of  pineapple,  blanch  them  in  syrup,  peel  the  apricots 
and  peaches,  drain  on  a  hair  sieve.  Have  ready  a 
border  of  Savarin  cake,  dish  up,  dress  the  fruit  in  the 
centre ;  ornament  with  fancy  cut  pieces  of  angelique, 
crystallised  cherries,  and  citron  peel.  Reduce  the 
syrup  until  thick,  with  a  glass  of  Maraschino,  and  pour 
over  the  fruit.  This  dish  can  be  served  hot  or  cold  as 
desired. 

607.  Bordure  Savarin. — Sift  2  oz.  flour  in  a  small 
basin ;  form  a  hole  in  the  centre,  dilute  ^  oz.  German 
yeast  with  lukewarm  milk,  add  this  to  the  flour,  and 
make  a  light  dough ;  set  it  aside  to  rise  in  a  warm  place. 
Next  sift  6  oz.  flour  into  a  large  basin,  add  2  oz.  sugar, 
3  oz.  warm  butter,  a  little  milk,  and  4  eggs  (2  at  a 
time) ;  knead  well  for  about  ten  minutes,  then  add  the 
prepared  yeast,  together  with  a  tablespoonful  of  sweet 

39 


612  RECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

cream.  Work  it  again  for  a  few  minutes,  and  fill  an 
appropriate-sized  border-mould  rather  more  than  half 
full.  The  mould  must  be  well  buttered,  and  the 
interior  sprinkled  with  shred  almonds  or  cocoanut. 
Cover  the  mould,  and  let  stand  in  a  warm  place,  to 
rise,  for  about  three  hours,  by  which  time  the  contents 
should  have  risen  to  fill  the  mould.     Bake  in  a  hot  oven. 

608.  Baba  au  Rhum. — |  lb.  sifted  flour,  a  pinch  of 
salt,  rather  more  than  |-  oz.  yeast,  2  oz.  castor  sugar, 
4  oz.  butter,  5  eggs,  1^  oz.  cleaned  currants,  i  gill 
cream,  about  1^  gill  milk. 

Put  4  oz.  of  the  flour  in  a  small  basin,  make  a  Avell 
in  the  centre,  put  in  this,  the  yeast  diluted  with  a  gill 
tepid  milk,  work  it  to  a  smooth  dough,  cover  with  a 
cloth,  and  let  it  rise  in  a  warm*  place.  Put  the 
remainder  of  the  flour  in  a  large  basin,  make  a  well  in 
the  centre,  add  the  salt  and  sugar,  work  in  the  eggs 
and  a  little  milk,  and  beat  for  fifteen  minutes.  When 
the  dough  has  well  risen,  add  it  to  the  above,  knead 
well  for  another  fifteen  minutes,  put  in  the  cream  (just 
tepid),  also  the  currants,  and  mix  thoroughly.  Have 
ready  six  to  eight  small,  or  one  large  well-buttered 
baba  mould  (these  are  cylindrical  -  shaped  copper 
moulds).  Sprinkle  the  bottom  and  sides  with  a  few 
currants,  let  rise  for  fifteen  minutes  in  a  warm  place, 
and  bake  in  a  moderately  heated  oven.  When  done, 
turn  out  on  a  sieve,  baste  well,  whilst  hot,  with  rum 
syrup,  dish  up,  sauce  over  with  the  sauce,  and  serve 
hot. 

609.  Timbale  a  la  Pompadour. — Prepare  sufficient 
■"  Baba  paste  "  to  fill  a  well-buttered  copper  pudding- 
mould,  bake  it  in  the  usual  way,  turn  out  on  a  sieve, 
and,  when  cold,  cut  oft'  the  top  carefully,  scoop  out  the 
centre,  and  fill  with  a  macedoine  of  fruit ;  reduce  the 
syrup  well  with  so  much  apricot  marmalade  and  a  little 
Kirschwasser  as  to  make  a  stift'  syrup,  pour  some  of 
this  over  the  fruit,  put  the  top  on  it,  and  turn  over  on 
a  dish.  Have  ready  some  small  rounds  of  apples, 
cooked  partly  in  white  and  partly  in  red  syrup,  also 


SWEET    ENTREMETS     (HOT).  613 

a  nice  peach.  Ornament  the  top  with  the  fruit,  garnish 
with  angehque  and  dried  cherries.  Glaze  over  with  the 
reduced  syrup,  warm  in  the  oven,  and  serve. 

610.  Meringuage  Sicilienne. — 12  to  11  Meringue 
shells  (small),  2  oz.  strawberry  or  gooseberry  pulp, 
1];  pint  whipped  cream,  4  oz.  sugar,  glace  cherries. 

Boil  the  sugar  with  a  little  water  to  the  crack 
(about  300  degrees  Fahrenheit).  Grease  the  outside  of 
a  charlotte  mould,  and  stand,  opening  downwards,  on 
a  plate ;  dip  the  side  of  each  meringue  in  the  boiled 
sugar,  and  place  them  in  rows  against  the  side  of  the 
mould,  piling  one  row  on  the  other  until  the  top  of 
the  mould  is  reached.  Remove  the  mould  carefully, 
and  put  the  shape  on  to  a  dish.  Whip  the  cream,  add 
the  fruit  pulp,  fill  the  centre  with  this,  garnish  neatly 
with  some  glace  cherries,  and,  if  liked,  with  a  few 
fancifully- cut  leaves  of  angelique. 

If  preferred,  the  top  may  be  covered  with  meringue 
shells.     Serve  quickly. 

611.  Bonnes  Bouches  a  la  Washington. — 5  blood 
oranges,  2  Bartlett  pears,  2  peaches,  2  slices  pineapple, 
2  apricots,  glace  cherries  or  other  fruit  in  equal  parts, 
1^  gill  claret,  1  gill  Chartreuse,  i  lb.  powdered  maca- 
roons, meringue  mixture. 

Stew  the  fruit  as  for  compote,  if  fresh  fruit  is  used, 
but  bottled  fruit  will  do  if  the  former  is  not  procurable ; 
cut  the  fruit  into  slices  about  the  size  of  a  small  cherry, 
cut  the  oranges  in  halves,  carefully  remove  the  pulp, 
so  that  the  skin  remains  intact.  Rub  the  pulp  through 
a  sieve,  and  add  to  it  the  wine  and  liqueur ;  thicken 
this  syrup  with  macaroons.  Mix  in  the  fruit,  fill  up 
the  orange  rinds,  smooth  over  with  the  blade  of  a 
knife,  cover  the  surface  with  meringue  mixture,  orna- 
ment to  taste,  pyramid  fashion,  dust  with  sugar,  and 
bake  in  the  oven  a  golden  brown. 

612.  Charlotte  de  Cerises. — -^  lb.  cooking  cherries, 
the  rind  of  half  a  lemon,  4  oz.  butter,  6  oz.  sugar,  1  tea- 
spoonful  powdered  cinnamon,  about  1|  lb.  Genoise  cake 
or  German  Zwieback. 


614  RECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

Stone  the  cherries,  put  them  m  a  stewpan  with  very 
little  water,  add  the  sugar,  the  grated  rind  of  half  a  lemon, 
and  the  cinnamon,  also  two  ounces  of  butter  ;  steam  over 
the  fire  gently  until  the  cherries  are  tender  (shake  the 
pan  from  time  to  time).  If  Genoise  cake  is  used  cut  it 
into  neat  slices,  and  bake  both  sides  a  golden  colour. 
Line  the  bottom  and  sides  of  a  well-buttered  charlotte 
mould  with  these  or  German  Zwiebacks  ;  each  piece 
should  be  dipped  in  oiled  butter,  so  as  to  make  them 
hold  fast ;  fill  up  the  mould  alternately  with  baked 
biscuits  (Genoise)  or  Zwiebacks  and  the  cherries,  lay 
them  in  tightly,  sprinkle  a  little  dissolved  butter  over 
the  top,  and  bake  for  half-an-hour  in  the  oven.  Serve 
with  a  Kirsch  syrup. 

613.  Croquettes  de  Cerises. — |  lb.  cooking  cherries 
(sour),  li  lb.  cakecrumbs  (crushed  finger-biscuits  or 
Genoise),  4  oz.  sugar,  1  teaspoonful  grated  lemon  rind, 
a  pinch  of  powdered  cinnamon,  1  egg,  crushed  rusks,  fat 
for  frying,  2  glasses  noyeau. 

Stone  the  cherries,  put  them  in  a  stewpan  with  the 
sugar  and  a  little  water  ;  cook  until  tender,  strain  off 
a  little  of  the  juice,  and  add  the  cakecrumbs  and  liquor, 
grated  lemon  rind,  and  cinnamon  ;  spread  the  mixture 
on  a  dish  and  let  cool.  Make  up  into  cork  shapes,  beat 
up  the  egg,  brush  over  the  croquets  with  egg,  roll  in 
the  crushed  rusks  or  baked  and  crushed  slices  of 
Genoise  cake  ;  when  set,  egg  and  crumb  again.  Fry  in 
clarified  butter  or  fat  to  a  golden  colour,  strain  on  a 
cloth  or  paper,  dust  with  sugar,  dish  up  on  a  folded 
napkin  or  lace  paper,  and  serve  ;  garnish  top  of  each  with 
a  glace  cherry  or  angelique. 

614.  (Eufs  Vanilles  a  la  Neige. — J  lb.  castor  sugar, 
1  pint  of  milk,  1  gill  cream,  6  whites  of  eggs,  vanilla 
essence  or  pod. 

Put  milk,  cream,  sugar,  and  vanilla  in  a  saute-pan, 
and  heat  up.  Beat  the  whites  of  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth. 
When  the  milk,  cream,  &c.,  is  boiling  drop  into  it  the 
whites  of  eggs,  previously  shaped  with  a  tablespoon 
(the  shape  of  quenelles)  ;    dip  the  spoon  into  boiling 


SWEET    ENTREMETS    (HOT).  615 

water  each  time  it  is  used,  and  avoid  putting  in  too  many 
at  a  time.  Turn  the  shapes  as  they  are  being  poached. 
Each  quenelle  will  take  from  three  to  four  minutes  to 
cook.  When  done,  range  them  nicely  in  a  deep  silver 
dish.  Strain  the  custard  over  and  round  the  quenelles, 
and  serve.  Use  vanilla  pod  if  possible,  as  it  gives  a 
better  flavour. 

615.  Omelette  Soufflee. — 6  yolks  of  eggs,  10  whites 
of  eggs,  4  oz.  castor  sugar,  1  oz.  fecule,  flavouring. 

Put  the  yolks  and  sugar  into  a  basin  and  work 
them  well  with  a  wooden  spatula  ;  add  the  flavouring 
and  fecule.  Whisk  the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth  and  mix 
carefully  with  the  yolks.  Have  ready  a  buttered  plated 
baking-dish  ;  dress  the  mixture  on  it,  pile  up  as  high 
as  possible,  shape  the  sides  with  the  blade  of  a  knife, 
and  make  a  deep  insertion  in  the  centre.  Bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  for  about  twenty  minutes.  Dust  with 
sugar,  and  serve. 

616.  Omelette  a  la  Charlotte.  —  6  eggs,  ^  lemon, 
3  oz.  castor  sugar,  6  oz,  flour,  1  gill  fresh  cream,  1  table- 
spoonful  orange-flower  water,  3  oz.  butter,  apple  mar- 
malade. 

Break  the  eggs  and  separate  the  whites  from  the  yolks. 
Beat  the  yolks  with  the  sugar,  add  the  lemon  rind  chopped 
finely,  and  orange-flower  water.  Whisk  the  whites  of 
eggs  and  mix  them  carefully  with  the  flour  and  the  yolks. 
Whip  the  cream  until  stiff*  and  add  to  the  mixture. 
Melt  the  butter  in  two  large  omelette  pans,  pour  in 
each  half  the  mixture  ;  let  it  set  over  the  fire  and  then 
put  them  in  a  moderate  oven  for  about  ten  minutes  to 
finish  cooking.  Heat  the  apple  marmalade,  spread  a 
thick  layer  over  each  omelet,  roll  them  lightly,  and  dust 
with  sugar,  and  serve. 

617.  Omelette  a  la  Celestine. — 10  eggs,  3oz.  crushed 
macaroons,  2  tablespoonfuls  castor  sugar,  3  kinds  of 
jam,  a  little  cream,  1  oz.  butter,  a  pinch  of  salt. 

Break  the  eggs  into  a  basin,  add  the  salt  and 
cream,  beat  them  up  well,  and  mix  with  the  sugar  and 
macaroons.      Make  five   or   six  omelets   of  equal  size 


1)16  RECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

with  the  mixture,  insert  one  kind  of  jam  in  the  centre 
of  each  (about  a  tablespoonful),  roll  up,  dust  them  over 
with  sugar,  and  glaze  with  the  salamander  or  a  hot 
iron.  Cut  each  in  two;  dish  up  in  a  circle  and  serve 
quickly. 

618.  Omelette  au  Rhum.— 6  egg^,  2  oz.  butter,  small 
glass  rum,  1  tablespoonful  of  castor  sugar  and  1  of 
cream,  a  pinch  of  salt. 

Break  the  eggs  into  a  basin,  add  the  salt  and  sugar, 
beat  up  well  together  with  the  cream  and  a  little  rum. 
Melt  the  butter  in  an  omelet  pan  ;  when  hot,  pour 
in  the  eggs,  &c.  Stir,  cook,  roll,  and  brown  the  omelet 
to  a  Hght  colour ;  turn  carefully  on  to  a  dish,  dust  with 
sugar,  pour  the  rum  round  the  omelet,  light  it,  and 
serve  quickly. 

619.  Omelette  au  Kirsch.  —  Proceed  in  the  same 
manner  as  above,  but  substitute  rum  with  Kirsch. 

620.  Beignets  de  Bananes  (Banana  Fritters). — Select 
some  bananas,  not  too  ripe,  peel  them,  cut  them  length- 
ways into  pieces  about  two-and-a-half  inches  long,  put 
in  a  deep  dish  and  sprinkle  over  with  a  glass  of  Kirsch - 
wasser.  Prepare  a  batter.  No.  51,  dip  the  bananas  in  this 
and  drop  into  very  hot  clarified  butter,  fry  them  a  nice 
colour;  drain  on  paper  or  cloth,  dredge  with  castor 
sugar  flavoured  with  a  little  ground  cinnamon,  dish  up, 
and  serve  hot. 

621.  Beignets  Souffles  a  la  Vanille. — Prepare  some 
choux-paste,  No.  38,  add  a  teaspoonful  of  castor  sugar 
and  a  few  drops  of  vanilla  essence.  Have  ready  some 
hot  lard  or  clarified  butter,  drop  in  the  paste  with  a 
dessert  or  teaspoon,  fry  (rather  slowly  at  first)  until  a 
nice  golden  colour  is  obtained.  Drain  well,  dredge  with 
castor  or  icing  sugar,  and  serve  hot. 

622.  Beignets  a  la  Torrijos. — 2  French  dinner-rolls, 
^  pint  milk,  2  yolks  of  eggs,  2  oz.  loaf  sugar.  1  glass 
Maraschino,  ground  cinnamon  or  nutmeg,  clarified  butter 
for  frying. 

Rasp  the  crust  from  the  rolls  and  cut  them  into 
round  slices,  about  quarter-inch  thick,   and  put  in   a 


SWEET    ENTREMETS    (hOT).  617 

dish.  Beat  up  the  yolks  of  eggs,  add  the  milk  and 
liqueur,  and  about  half  an  ounce  of  sugar.  Stir  and  pour 
over  the  slices  of  bread  and  let  soak  for  about  fifteen 
minutes.  Drain  the  pieces  and  fry  a  golden  colour  in 
the  clarified  butter.  Drain  well  on  a  cloth  or  paper, 
sprinkle  with  castor  sugar  previously  mixed  with  enough 
ground  cinnamon  or  nutmeg  to  flavour.  Dish  up,  and 
serve  hot. 

623.  Beignets  de  Groseilles  Vertes  (Gooseberry 
Fritters).- -A  pint  of  large  ripe  gooseberries,  1  white  and 
2  yolks  of  eggs,  2  tablespoonfuls  cream,  2  oz.  flour,  2 
tablespoonfuls  water,  castor  sugar,  a  pinch  salt,  clarified 
butter  or  lard. 

Sift  the  flour  into  a  basin.  Add  a  pinch  of  salt, 
stir  in  gradually  the  yolks  of  eggs,  cream,  and  water,  and 
work  into  a  smooth  batter.  Let  it  stand  for  half  an 
hour.  Pick  the  fruit,  beat  the  white  of  egg  to  a  stifi' 
froth  and  mix  with  the  batter.  Heat  the  butter  or 
lard,  dip  the  gooseberries  into  the  batter,  drop  into  the 
hot  butter  or  lard,  and  fry  a  golden  colour.  Drain 
on  a  cloth,  sprinkle  with  castor  sugar,  dish  up,  and 
serve. 

624.  Beignets  de  Fraises.— Select  about  one  pound 
of  large  strawberries ;  remove  the  small  leaves,  but 
leave  on  the  stalks  ;  place  them  in  a  basin  ;  sprinkle 
with  a  little  ground  cinnamon  ;  dissolve  some  peach 
marmalade,  strain,  add  a  small  glass  of  liqueur  brandy, 
and  keep  warm.  Have  ready  a  small  quantity  of  light 
frying  batter.  Next  dip  the  strawberries  into  the  mar- 
malade, roll  in  powdered  sponge-cakes  or  powdered 
biscuits,  dip  each  strawberry  in  the  batter,  drop  them 
gently  in  some  boiling  fat  or  butter,  and  fry  till  crisp 
and  of  a  nice  light  colour  ;  drain  and  dish  up  on  a 
folded  napkin.     Dust  with  sugar  and  serve  quickly. 

625.  Beignets  de  Beines-Claude. — Proceed  in  the 
same  manner  as  above  described,  using  ripe  but  firm 
greengages,  pre^dously  stoned,  in  place  of  strawberries. 

626.  Beignets  de  Pommes  (Apple  Fritters). — 3  or 
4   sour   cooking-apples,    castor   sugar,    ^    teaspoonful 


618  RECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

ground  cinnamon,  1  dessert- spoonful  brandy,  1  dessert 
spoonful  Kirscli,  frying  batter,  clarified  fat  or  lard. 

Prepare  the  batter  as  directed  in  No.  38.  Peel  the 
apples  thinly,  cut  into  slices  about  ^  inch  thick,  cut  out 
the  cores  by  means  of  a  column  cutter.  Put  the  slices  on 
a  plate,  pour  over  the  brandy  and  Kirsch,  cover  over  with 
another  plate,  and  shake  together  for  a  few  minutes. 
Dip  the  slices  of  apple  into  the  batter,  and  drop  into  the 
fat  previously  heated ;  fry  a  golden  colour,  drain  on  a 
cloth.  Mix  a  little  ground  cinnamon  with  castor  sugar, 
just  enough  to  flavour ;  dust  over  the  fritters  with  the 
sugar,  dish  up  and  serve  as  hot  as  possible. 

627.  Crepes,  Pancakes  (Batter).— 4  oz.  of  flour 
(Coombs"  self-raising),  1  whole  egg,  3  yolks  of  eggs,  J  oz. 
oiled  butter,  1^  gill  of  milk,  a  pinch  of  salt. 

Put  the  flour  into  a  basin,  add  the  salt,  beat  up  the 
eggs,  and  stir  gradually  into  the  flour ;  add  a  little  of 
the  milk  and  beat  to  a  smooth  paste,  then  pour  in  the 
remainder  of  the  milk  and  the  oiled  butter  (this  must 
be  done  gradually),  mix  well,  strain  through  a  pointed 
strainer  into  a  jug.  Let  the  batter  stand  for  some  time 
before  using. 

628.  To  Fry  Pancakes. — To  fry  pancakes  success- 
fully, proceed  as  follows :  Put  a  very  small  piece  of  butter 
in  a  pancake  pan  ;  when  hot,  pour  in  a  small  quantity, 
say  two  tablespoonfuls,  of  the  batter  so  as  to  cover  the 
bottom  of  the  pan  completely.  Fry  over  a  clear  fire 
till  one  side  is  coloured,  then  toss  it  over  and  fry  the 
other  side  ;  when  done,  turn  on  to  a  clean  board,  and 
proceed  as  directed.  Dust  with  sugar,  squeeze  a  few 
drops  of  lemon  juice  over,  roll  up,  or  fold,  and  dish  up 
on  a  hot  dish. 


SWEET  SAUCES. 

629.  Sauce  au  Liqueur. — 1  oz.  fresh  butter,  ^  oz. 
flour,  1  gill  milk,  1  oz.  sugar,  1  whole  egg,  i  teaspoon- 
ful   vanilla   essence,   ^    oz.  finely  chopped  pistachios, 


SWEET    ENTREMETS    (HOT).  619 

^  oz.  finely   chopped  lemon  ]3eel,  1  tablespoonful  red 
Cura9oa. 

Melt  the  butter  in  a  small  stewpan,  stir  in  the  flour, 
and  blend  over  the  fire  for  a  few  seconds.  Moisten 
slowly  with  the  milk,  add  the  sugar,  and  stir  well  over 
the  fire  ;  beat  up  the  egg  and  add  also  ;  strain  the  sauce 
into  another  saucepan,  let  it  get  hot,  but  not  boiling  ; 
stir  in  the  lemon  peel,  pistachios,  and  Cura9oa,  and 
serve  as  directed. 

630.  Sauce  au  Cognac— 4  oz.  loaf  sugar,  ^  oz.  corn- 
flower, h  gill  brandy,  |  pint  w^ater. 

Put  the  sugar  and  rather  more  than  a  gill  and  a 
half  of  water  in  a  copper  stewpan,  boil  a  few  minutes , 
take  off  the  scum,  and  reduce  to  a  thin  syrup.  Mix  the 
cornflour  with  a  little  cold  water,  stir  into  the  boiling 
syrup,  and  whisk  over  the  fire  for  about  five  minutes. 
Add  the  brandy,  strain,  and  serve  hot  with  the  pudding. 

631.  Sauce  au  Kirsch. — Proceed  the  same  as  above 
directed,  but  substitute  |  gill  of  Kirschwasser  for  the 
brandy. 

632.  Sirop  au  Punch. — 4  oz.  loaf  sugar,  1  orange, 
i  tablespoonful  vanilla  essence,  ^  gill  best  rum,  -^  gill 
water. 

Rub  the  sugar  on  the  orange  rind  to  obtain  the 
flavour  of  half  the  orange.  Put  this  into  a  stewpan, 
add  the  rum,  light  it,  and  cover  quickly ;  let  it  infuse 
for  a  few  seconds  over  the  fire,  then  add  the  water, 
vanilla  essence,  and  the  pieces  of  the  orange,  and  boil 
for  five  minutes ;  strain,  and  serve  hot  with  the  pudding. 
N.B. — If  preferred,  brandy  or  Kirschwasser  may  be  used 
in  place  of  rum. 

633.  Sabayon  au  Madere. — Put  3  oz.  castor  sugar, 
8  yolks  of  eggs,  and  ^  gill  cream  in  a  stewpan, 
place  it  in  a  bain-marie  or  vessel  of  boiling  water  over 
the  fire,  stir  with  a  whisk  until  frothy,  then  add  1  gill 
^Madeira  wine,  whisk  it  until  it  begins  to  thicken  and  is 
of  light  appearance,  pour  over  the  pudding,  and  serve. 

634.  Sauce  aux  Fraises. — The  pulp  of  8  large  ripe 
strawberries,  1  glass  of  Bauterne  or  Chablis,  1  egg,  1  oz. 
sugar. 


620  RECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

Put  the  fruit  pulp,  wine,  and  sugar  in  a  small  stew- 
pan,  wliisk  over  a  moderate  fire  until  almost  boiling, 
then  add  the  egg  ;  continue  to  whisk  until  quite  frothy  ; 
on  no  account  allow  it  to  boil.     Serve  as  soon  as  ready. 

635.  Sauce  a  rAbricot. — 3  oz.  apricot  marmalade, 

1  gill  sherry  or  ^  gill  brandy,  1  gill  water,  1  oz.  butter. 

Put  the  marmalade  in  a  stewpan,  and  let  dissolve 
with  the  water  and  butter.  Remove  from  the  fire,  add 
the  sherry  or  brandy,  boil  up  again,  strain,  and  use  as 
required.  A  haison  of  one  dessert- spoonful  of  cornflour 
added  to  the  above  will  improve  the  appearance  for 
coating  purposes. 

636.  Sauce  a  T Orange. — 2  yolks  of  eggs,  1  small 
orange,  2  oz.  castor  sugar,  |  pint  milk,  1  glass  Cura9oa. 

Boil  up  the  milk  and  sugar,  add  the  rind  of  orange 
finely  grated,  one  tablespoonful  of  orange  juice,  stir  in 
the  yolks  of  eggs,  beat  well  over  the  fire  with  a  small 
whisk.  When  the  sauce  begins  to  thicken,  place  in 
the  bain-marie  or  a  vessel  containing  boiling  water, 
add  the  liqueur,  and  continue  to  whisk  for  ten  minutes  ; 
the  sauce  is  then  ready  for  serving. 

637.  Sauce   au   Chocolat. — 4   oz.  grated  chocolate, 

2  oz.  icing  sugar,  3  parts  of  a  pint  of  water,  1  oz.  fecule 
or  creme  de  riz,  1  teaspoonful  vanilla  essence,  1  table - 
spoonful  of  brandy. 

Put  the  chocolate,  sugar,  and  water  in  a  saucepan ; 
stir  over  the  fire  until  it  boils.  Mix  the  fecule  or  creme 
de  riz  with  an  extra  gill  of  cold  water,  add  it  to  the 
chocolate,  bring  it  again  to  the  boil,  and  let  simmer  for 
five  minutes.  Pass  through  a  tammy  or  napkin,  return 
to  the  saucepan,  add  the  brandy  and  vanilla  essence, 
and  keep  hot  until  required. 

638.  Sauce  Mousseline  (Douce). — 3  yolks  of  eggs, 
2  whites  of  eggs,  ^  gill  of  cream,  1|  oz.  castor  sugar, 
1  wineglassful  Maraschino. 

Put  all  the  above  ingredients  into  a  small  stewpan, 
beat  it  with  a  whisk,  stand  the  pan  in  a  bain-marie  or 
a  large  vessel  three  parts  full  of  boiling  water.  Stir 
until  it  becomes  creamy,  but  do  not  allow  it  to  boil. 
Serve  with  hot  sweet  puddhigs,  &c. 


CHAPTER  XII. 
COLD    SWEETS   AND   ICES. 

639.  Bavaroise  an  Chocolat. — }  lb.  chocolate,  3  oz. 
sugar,  ^  oz.  French  leaf  gelatine,  1  tablespoonfiil  creme 
de  riz,  1  quart  milk,  6  yolks  of  eggs,  1  teaspoonful  vanilla 
essence. 

Soak  the  gelatine  in  a  little  cold  milk,  mix  the  ground 
rice  or  creme  de  riz  with  |  gill  of  cold  milk.  Put  the 
chocolate,  sugar,  and  remainder  of  milk  in  a  stewpan ; 
boil  gently,  and  stir  until  the  chocolate  is  dissolved  ;  add 
the  gelatine  and  creme  de  riz  ;  stir  until  it  boils.  Beat  up 
the  yolks  of  eggs  in  a  basin,  pour  on  the  milk,  &c.,  stir 
well  and  return  to  the  stewpan  ;  add  the  vanilla  essence, 
and  stir  over  the  fire  until  it  thickens,  but  do  not  let  it 
boil.  Strain  through  a  fine  hair  sieve,  pour  into  a  fancy 
mould ;  when  set,  turn  out  on  a  cold  dish,  and  serve. 
The  top  of  the  shape  may  be  decorated  with  whipped 
cream,  sweetened  with  a  little  vanilla  sugar,  by  means 
of  a  cornet  or  forcing-bag. 

640.  Bavaroise  de  Bananes. — 1  quart  milk,  2  oz. 
cornflower,  2  oz.  sugar,  2  bananas,  |  teaspoonful  vanilla 
essence,  2  yolks  of  eggs. 

Boil  up  the  milk,  add  the  sugar,  wet  the  cornflower 
with  a  little  cold  milk,  and  stir  into  the  boiling  milk ; 
stir  over  the  fire  until  it  thickens,  and  add  the  yolks  of 
eggs  and  flavouring  essence.  Let  the  eggs  bind,  and  set 
aside  to  cool.  Peel  the  bananas,  and  cut  into  thin  slices, 
mix  with  the  above,  and  fill  into  one  or  two  wetted 
moulds ;  put  on  the  ice  to  set.  When  ready,  immerse 
the  mould  in  tepid  water,  turn  out  on  a  dish,  and  serve 
with  a  cold  fruit  syrup. 


622  RECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

641.  Bavaroise  au  Caramel. — 6  oz.  castor  sugar, 
1|  pint  milk,  ^  pint  cream,  1  oz.  French  gelatine,  6  yolks 
of  eggs,  1  lemon. 

Peel  the  lemon  finely,  chop  the  rind  and  put  it  in  a 
copper  sugar-boiler  ;  add  2  oz.  sugar  and  a  few  drops  of 
lemon-juice,  stir  over  the  fire  until  it  acquires  a  dark 
amber  colour ;  add  the  milk  and  boil  up  ;  then  stir  in 
the  yolks  of  eggs  two  at  a  time,  and  the  remainder  of 
the  sugar.  Stir  over  the  fire  mitil  it  begins  to  thicken, 
and  pass  through  a  fine  sieve  or  strainer.  Dissolve  the 
gelatine  in  a  gill  of  water  and  strain  it  into  the  above  ; 
let  it  cool  a  little,  whip  the  cream  and  mix.  Fill  up  a 
mould,  stand  it  on  the  ice  to  cool ;  when  set,  turn  out 
and  serve. 

642.  Creme  Renversee. — |  pint  milk,  4  eggs,  6  oz. 
castor  sugar,  ^  gill  cream,  |  teaspoonful  lemon  essence. 

Put  2  oz.  of  the  sugar  with  i  gill  water  in  a  copper 
sugar-boiler  ;  boil  until  it  acquires  a  light-brown  colour, 
or,  in  other  words,  until  it  is  a  caramel.  Mask  quickly 
the  inside  of  a  plain  mould  (quart  size) ;  when  the  in- 
terior is  thoroughly  lined  with  this,  let  it  get  cool. 
Beat  up  the  eggs  in  a  basin,  add  the  remainder  of  the 
sugar,  the  milk,  cream,  and  the  essence  of  lemon.  Strain 
the  whole  into  the  lined  mould,  place  in  a  stewpan,  fill 
up  with  boiling  water  to  half  the  height  of  the  mould, 
and  cook  in  a  moderately  heated  oven  for  forty  minutes. 
This  dish  can  be  served  hot  or  cold.  Great  care  must 
be  taken  in  the  turning  out  if  served  hot,  otherwise  it 
should  stand  for  at  least  IJ  hour  before  it  is  turned  out. 
In  either  case,  it  is  served  with  its  own  liquor. 

643.  Creme  de  Fraises  a  la  Chartreuse.  —1  small 
punnet  of  ripe  strawberries,  J  pint  clear  wine  jelly, 
^  pint  cream,  1  glass  Chartreuse,  ^  oz.  angelique,  4  leaves 
gelatine. 

Melt  some  of  the  jelly,  put  a  fancy  or  plain  mould 
in  a  basin  containing  crushed  ice,  and  line  the  inside  of 
the  mould  thinly  with  a  layer  of  jelly.  Pick  out  a  few 
of  the  best  fruit,  halve  them,  remove  the  stalk,  and  sub- 
stitute a  stalk  with  small  pieces  of  angelique  stuck  in 


COLD    SWEETS    AND    ICES.  623 

each  half.  Decorate  the  bottom  and  sides  of  the  mould 
with  these  ;  mask  well  with  jelly  so  as  to  keep  the  fruit 
firm  and  in  position.  Pick  the  stalks  of  the  remainder 
of  strawberries,  and  cut  them  in  slices  ;  melt  the  re- 
mainder of  the  jelly,  put  in  the  sliced  fruit,  melt  the 
gelatine  in  a  little  jelly,  and  strain  into  this.  Let  cool 
a  little,  whip  the  cream,  and  mix  it  with  the  above  ;  add 
the  liqueur  and  stir  over  the  ice  until  it  begins  to  set, 
then  pour  into  the  decorated  mould.  Stand  it  on  the 
ice  until  firm,  then  turn  out  and  serve. 

644.  Creme  a  la  Genoise. — |  pint  milk,  1  gill  cream, 
2  oz.  crushed  macaroons,  2  oz.  loaf  sugar,  1  oz.  glace  fruit, 
4  yolks  of  eggs,  |  orange,  J  glass  Cognac  brandy,  |  oz. 
French  gelatine. 

Put  the  macaroons  in  a  basin,  pour  over  the  brandy, 
and  let  soak.  Rub  the  pieces  of  loaf  sugar  on  the  rind 
of  orange,  so  as  to  extract  the  oil  and  flavour,  put  the 
sugar  and  milk  in  a  stewpan,  and  bring  to  the  boil.  Beat 
the  yolks  of  eggs  a  little,  stir  in  the  boiled  milk,  return 
to  the  stewpan,  and  stir  over  a  slow  fire  until  it  begins 
to  thicken ;  then  put  aside  and  stir  in  the  gelatine, 
previously  dissolved  in  a  little  milk.  Strain  through  a 
pointed  strainer  or  hair  sieve  ;  now  mix  in  the  maca- 
roons and  brandy,  and  let  cool  a  little.  Cut  the  fruit, 
lemon  and  orange  peel,  shred  it  into  fine  shreds.  Whip 
the  cream  until  stiff  and  mingle  with  the  preserved  fruits 
into  the  cream.  Stir  until  it  commences  to  set,  then 
pour  into  a  mould  and  put  on  the  ice  to  set.  When 
required  for  table,  immerse  it  in  tepid  water,  turn  out 
on  a  cold  dish,  and  garnish,  if  handy,  with  a  little 
chopped  jelly. 

645.  Creme  cuite  a  la  Suisse. — 3  oz.  glace  fruits 
(cherries,  apricot,  angelique,  &c.),  |  pint  cream,  i  pint 
milk,  6  yolks  and  3  whites  of  eggs,  li  oz.  loaf  sugar, 
J   oz.  French   gelatine,  1  glass  Curacoa,  1  gill   wine 

jelly- 
Mask  a  quart  mould  with  jelly,  decorate  the  bottom 
and  sides  with  glace  fruits,  and  set  the  fruit  with  a  layer  of 
jelly.  Put  the  milk  and  cream  with  the  sugar  in  a  stewpan, 


62-4  RECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

bring  to  the  boil.  Mix  the  eggs  in  a  basin,  pour  over  tbe 
boiling  milk  and  cream,  stir  well  and  return  to  the  stew- 
pan.  Stir  over  a  slow  fire  and  let  it  come  gradually 
almost  to  the  boil,  strain  into  a  basin,  dissolve  the 
gelatine  in  a  little  milk,  and  pass  through  a  strainer 
into  the  above  ;  stir  occasionally  until  nearly  cold,  then 
add  the  liqueur  and  glace  fruit  cut  into  shreds,  should 
any  be  left  over  ;  pour  into  the  decorated  mould  when 
it  commences  to  get  cool.  Stand  it  in  a  cool  place 
until  set.  Immerse  in  tepid  water  and  dish  up  on  a 
cold  dish. 

646.  Creme  au Tapioca,  a  la  Compote de  Fruits.— 3  oz. 
ground  or  crushed  tapioca,  2  oz.  loaf  sugar,  2  inches 
vanilla  pod,  |  pint  milk,  |  pint  cream,  about  a  pint  of 
compote  of  fruit,  almonds,  and  glace  cherries  for  garnish. 

Put  the  milk,  vanilla  pod,  and  sugar  in  a  stewpan, 
let  it  come  to  the  boil,  stir  in  the  tapioca,  stir  until  it 
boils,  and  cook  for  about  15  minutes.  Pour  into  a 
basin  to  cool,  whip  the  cream  and  mix  with  the  tapioca 
when  cool  (remove  the  vanilla).  Fill  this  into  a  border- 
mould,  stand  it  in  a  cool  place  till  firm,  unmould  on  to 
a  round  dish,  ornament  the  border  tastefully  with 
blanched  and  shredded  almonds  and  halves  of  glace 
cherries,  fill  the  centre  with  any  kind  of  stewed  fruit, 
pour  some  of  the  fruit  syrup  round  the  border,  and 
serve. 

N.B. — The  fruits  may  be  flavoured  with  a  glass  of 
Chartreuse  or  Maraschino  if  liked. 

647.  Creme  a  la  Romaine. — 8  oz.  Jordan  almonds 
and  1  oz.  bitter  almonds,  1  pint  milk,  1^  gill  cream,  4  oz. 
loaf  sugar,  1  tablespoonful  orange-flower  water,  1  oz. 
French  gelatine,  4  yolks  of  eggs. 

Blanch  and  peel  the  almonds,  throw  them  into  cold 
water,  wipe  them  dry  and  chop  rather  finely.  Put  the 
milk  into  a  stewpan  and  boil  up,  add  the  sugar  ;  put  the 
almonds  in  a  copper  preserving-pan  and  stir  over  the 
fire  until  they  have  acquired  a  light-brown  colour.  Add 
the  almonds  to  the  milk  and  let  boil,  stir  in  the  yolks 
of  eggs,  and  let  them  bind  over  the  fire,  then  remove 


COLD    SWEETS    AND    ICES.  625 

quickly,  and  pass  through  a  fine  sieve ;  soak  the  gelatine 
in  a  little  cold  water,  drain  and  let  dissolve,  and  strain 
into  the  cream ;  add  the  orange-flower  water  whilst 
warm,  whip  the  cream,  and  work  in  rather  lightly  (the 
cooked  cream  must  be  nearly  cold  when  the  whipped 
cream  is  added),  mingle  well  with  a  wooden  spoon,  and 
pour  into  a  mould  ;  stand  it  on  the  ice  ;  when  set,  turn 
oat,  garnish  with  some  preserved  fruit  or  compote,  and 
serve. 

648.  Gelee  au  Vin. — 2  quarts  water,  |  pint  white 
wine  or  sherry,  6  oz.  best  gelatine,  2  oranges,  3  lemons, 
1  oz.  coriander  seed,  ^  lb.  loaf  sugar,  2  whites  of  eggs. 

Put  the  water,  loaf  sugar,  the  rinds  of  oranges  and 
lemons  very  thinly  peeled,  and  allow  it  to  boil  up. 
Now  add  the  juice  of  the  fruit,  wine,  and  coriander 
seed ;  allow  the  syrup  to  cool  a  little.  Whisk  the 
whites  of  eggs  and  shells,  and  stir  into  the  syrup  ;  then 
add  the  gelatine,  which  has  been  already  soaked  in  cold 
water  and  well  strained,  and  stir  over  the  fire  until  it 
boils  ;  allow  it  to  simmer  until  the  gelatine  is  melted, 
then  pass  through  a  jelly-bag  or  fine  cloth  (previously 
rinsed  in  boiling  water).  Strain  two  or  three  times  until 
quite  clear.  Pour  into  moulds  and  set  to  cool.  When 
set,  immerse  in  tepid  water,  turn  out  on  a  dish  and 
serve. 

649.  Gelee  au  Panch. — ^  lb.  loaf  sugar,  2  lemons, 
1^  oz.  best  French  gelatine,  a  wineglassful  of  Kirsch, 
a    wineglassful    of    rum,    a   wineglassful    of    sherry, 
^  inch  cinnamon,  1  egg,  20  coriander  seeds,  1  gill  of 
cream,  ^  oz.  castor  sugar. 

Put  the  sugar  in  a  copper  stewpan,  add  a  pint  of 
water,  and  boil  to  a  syrup  ;  add  the  thinly  peeled  rind 
of  the  lemons,  and  the  gelatine  previously  soaked  ;  when 
the  latter  is  dissolved,  put  in  the  liqueur  and  wine, 
cinnamon  and  coriander  seeds ;  also  the  juice  of  the 
lemons.  Bring  it  again  to  a  boil,  let  it  cool  a  little. 
Beat  up  the  white  and  shell  of  one  egg,  stir  in,  bring 
slowly  to  a  boil ;  strain  through  a  jelly-bag,  and  pour 
in  a  mould  to  set.     When  turned  out,  fill  the  centre  of 


626  EECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

the  jelly   with    whipped   cream,    sweeten   with   castor 
sugar,  and  serve. 

650.  Gelee  aux  Fraises. — Pick  half  a  pound  of  small 
red  strawberries,  pulp  them  a  little  and  put  them  in  an 
earthen  pan.  Have  ready  a  pint  of  syrup  (made  with 
half  a  pound  of  sugar  and  a  pint  of  water),  pour  it  over 
the  fruit  after  the  first  heat  is  ofi',  cover  with  strawberry 
leaves,  and  let  it  stand  for  an  hour. 

Put  two  ounces  of  soaked  gelatine  into  a  stewpan  ; 
add  one  pint  of  water,  the  juice  of  a  lemon,  and  the 
strawberry  syrup  strained  ;  clarify  with  two  whites  of 
eggs,  strain  through  a  jelly-bag  until  transparent ;  mask 
a  mould  with  a  little  jelly  on  the  ice,  then  ornament 
wdth  large  ripe  strawberries,  and  fill  the  mould  with  jelly 
when  the  latter  is  cold  enough  to  allow  the  strawberries 
used  for  ornamenting  to  set. 

651.  Gelee  au  Vin  de  Champagne. — 1  quart  water, 
2^  oz.  gelatine  (French  leaf),  1  orange,  2  lemons,  12  oz. 
lump  sugar,  h  pint  sherry,  2  cloves,  1  inch  cinnamon, 

1  dessert-spoonful  coriander  seeds,  ^  pint  of  champagne, 

2  whites  of  eggs  and  shells. 

Dissolve  the  gelatine  in  the  water,  add  the  juice  of 
orange  and  lemons,  also  half  of  the  x^eel  (cut  very  thin); 
put  this,  together  with  the  other  ingredients,  in  a  stew- 
pan,  whisk  the  whites  of  eggs,  crush  the  shell  and  add 
also.  Put  upon  a  slow  fire,  stirring  frequently.  As 
soon  as  it  boils  move  the  pan  on  the  side  of  the  stove, 
pour  in  a  tablespoonful  of  cold  water,  and  let  simmer 
very  gently  for  about  ten  minutes.  Strain  through  a 
wetted  cloth  or  jelly  bag,  or  through  filtering  paper. 
Pour  into  a  mould  and  let  it  set  on  the  ice.  Immerse 
in  lukewarm  water.  Wipe  the  mould,  and  turn  out 
quickly  on  a  dish. 

652.  Macedoine  de  Fruit  a  la  Gelee. — IJ  pint 
wine  jelly,  strawberries,  apricots,  peaches,  gages,  raisins 
or  other  kinds  of  fruit. 

Dissolve  the  jelly.  Place  a  copper  jelly-mould  in  a 
shallow  pan  of  broken  ice,  pour  in  a  little  jelly;  let 
it   set.      Arrange   a  layer  of  fi'uit  neatly,  cover  with 


COLD    SWEETS    AND    ICES.  627 

jelly,  and  when  this  is  set  pour  in  some  more  jelly, 
more  layers  of  fruit,  alternating  with  different  kinds. 
Continue  this  until  the  mould  is  full,  but  great  care 
must  be  taken  to  see  that  each  layer  is  quite  set  before 
another  is  put  in.  When  fresh  fruit  cannot  be  obtained 
use  bottled  or  tin  fruits,  but  dry  each  piece  on  a  cloth 
before  it  is  set  in  the  jelly.  Keep  the  mould  on  ice 
until  set,  then  immerse  in  tepid  water,  turn  out  on  to 
a  folded  napkin  or  on  a  silver  dish,  and  serve. 

653.  Pouding  Froid  a  la  St.  Cloud. — J  pint  strong 
coffee,  5  eggs,  2  oz.  castor  sugar,  |  gill  cream,  sponge 
cakes  or  Genoise  cake,  3  oz.  sweet  almonds,  J  oz.  butter, 
3  tablespoonfuls  apricot  marmalade,  2  tablespoonfuls 
Maraschino,  angelique  and  glace  cherries. 

Blanch  the  almonds,  peel  and  shred  finely,  put  them 
on  a  baking-tin,  and  bake  in  a  slow  oven  a  fawny  colour. 
Butter  a  plain  charlotte  mould,  sprinkle  the  inside 
with  shredded  almonds,  and  fill  up  with  small  pieces 
of  sponge  cake  or  Genoise  cake  crumbs.  Dissolve  the 
sugar  in  the  coffee,  let  it  cool,  and  add  the  eggs  (pre- 
viously beaten),  the  cream,  and  the  Maraschino  liqueur  ; 
mix  thoroughly  and  strain  into  the  mould ;  put  the 
remainder  of  shredded  almonds  on  top,  cover  the  mould 
with  a  piece  of  buttered  paper,  and  stew  in  a  stewpan 
containing  enough  boiling  water  to  half  surround  the 
mould  in  depth.  Steam  this  for  about  two  hours.  Let 
cool  until  set,  then  turn  out  on  a  cold  round  dish.  Warm 
up  the  marmalade  with  a  little  water  and  sugar,  strain, 
and  mask  the  pudding.  Ornament  the  top  and  sides 
with  little  rings  of  angehque  and  halves  of  glace 
cherries.     Keep  on  the  ice  until  required  for  table. 

654.  Riz  a  rimperatrice.— 4  oz.  Carolina  rice, 
1  pint  milk,  6  oz.  sugar,  J  pod  vanilla,  5  yolks  of  eggs, 
1  gill  cream,  3  sheets  French  leaf  gelatine,  6  oz.  glace 
fruits,  apricots,  cherries,  &c.,  1  glass  Kirschwasser,  and 
a  pinch  of  salt. 

Wash  the  rice  in  several  waters  and  drain  well. 
Boil  up  the  milk  with  the  vanilla  pod,  stir  in  the  rice,  add 
a   pinch  of  salt,    and   let   it   cook  very  gently  for  45 

40 


628  RECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

minutes.  Take  out  the  vanilla,  wipe  it  well,  and  put 
away  for  further  use.  Soak  the  gelatine  in  tepid  water 
for  a  few  minutes,  and  put  with  the  rice.  Stir  in  the  yolks 
of  eggs  and  sugar;  keep  stirring  over  the  fire  until  the 
eggs  hegin  to  set ;  remove  quickly  from  the  fire  and  let 
cool  a  little.  Cut  the  fruit  into  dice  ;  whip  the  cream. 
Mix  the  fruit,  cream,  and  Kirschwasser  with  the  rice ; 
fill  up  one  large  or  several  small  moulds.  Put  some 
crushed  ice  in  a  flat  tin  or  large  basin,  stand  the  mould 
or  moulds  in  this,  and  keep  them  in  a  cool  place  for  at 
least  two  hours.  Immerse  in  tepid  water,  turn  out  on  a 
cold  dish.  Garnish  with  a  few  fancifully-cut  pieces  of 
crystallised  fruit,  and  serve. 

655.  Pommes  Meringuees  a  la  Creme. — 10  small 
sour  cooking-apples,  10  oz.  loaf  sugar,  |  lemon,  1  inch 
cinnamon,  2  cloves,  i  pint  cream,  3  whites  of  eggs,  6  oz. 
castor  sugar,  10  crystalhsed  cherries,  angelique. 

Peel  the  apples  thinly,  core  them  carefully  without 
breaking.  Put  the  loaf  sugar,  J  pint  of  water, 
cinnamon,  cloves,  and  lemon  juice  in  a  copper  stewpan, 
and  reduce  to  a  syrup.  Skim  well  and  strain  into  a  saute- 
pan.  Range  the  apples  neatly  in  the  syrup,  cover  with 
a  buttered  paper,  and  cook  in  a  hot  oven  until  tender. 
Ijift  out  the  apples,  strain  carefully,  and  place  them  on 
a  buttered  baking-sheet.  Whip  the  whites  of  the  eggs 
to  a  stiiBf  froth  ;  mix  with  the  castor  sugar.  Put  the 
meringue  mixture  in  a  forcing-bag  with  a  plain  piping 
tube ;  cover  each  apple  completely  with  the  mixture, 
dust  with  sugar,  and  bake  in  a  cool  oven  for  fifteen 
minutes.  The  meringue  crust  should  be  quite  dry,  and 
of  a  fawny  colour  when  taken  out  of  the  oven.  Put 
them  on  the  ice  to  cool.  Whip  the  cream,  add  a  dessert- 
spoonful of  castor  sugar  ;  when  the  apples  are  cold,  fill 
the  centre  of  each  with  some  of  the  whipped  cream. 
Dish  up  on  little  heaps  of  whipped  cream  in  a  cold  dish. 
Put  a  crystallised  cherry  and  2  or  3  lozenge-shaped 
slices  of  angelique  on  top  of  each.  Put  the  re- 
mainder of  the  cream  in  the  centre  of  the  dish,  and 
serve. 


COLD    SWEETS    AND    ICES.  629 

656.  Petites  Bombes  de   Fraises   a  la  Moderne. — 

I  lb.  small  ripe  but  firm  strawberries,  1  pint  wine  jelly, 
1  glass  Maraschino,  1  gill  double  cream,  liquid 
carmine,  angelique. 

Line  a  number  of  bomb-shaped  moulds  with  jelly 
previously  coloured  with  a  few  drops  of  carmine.  Cut 
some  of  the  smallest  strawberries  into  sUces  ;  put  a 
small  piece  of  angelique  in  the  end  of  each  half  to  form 
the  stalks.  Place  them  neatly  around  the  sides  of  the 
moulds  so  as  to  line  them  completely,  and  put  on  the  ice 
to  set.  Cut  the  remainder  of  fruit  into  dice  or  slices. 
Boil  remainder  of  jelly,  slightly  coloured,  for  a  few 
minutes,  to  reduce  its  quantity.  Pour  into  a  basin, 
stir  over  the  ice  to  cool,  then  add  the  cream,  liqueur, 
and  fruit.  Mix  all  carefully  over  the  ice ;  fill  the 
centre  of  the  moulds.  Keep  on  the  ice  till  required  for 
serving.  Unmould,  dish  up,  garnish  with  a  few  nice 
strawberries  and  chopped  jelly,  and  serve. 

657.  Petits  Pains  de  Fraises  (Little  Strawberry- 
Moulds). — ]  punnet  of  strawberries,  1  pint  wine  jelly, 
I  glass  Maraschino,  i  oz.  French  leaf  gelatine,  2  eggs, 
1  oz.  castor  sugar,  2  oz.  loaf  sugar,  angelique. 

Dissolve  some  of  the  jelly,  pick  about  a  dozen  of  the 
best  strawberries.  Mask  some  fancy  dariole  moulds 
with  jelly  ;  when  partly  set,  garnish  the  surface  with 
strawberries  and  angelique  leaves  ;  coat  the  garnish  with 
half- set  jelly,  and  put  on  the  ice  to  get  firm.  Beat  up 
the  eggs ;  pick  the  remainder  of  the  strawberries,  put 
them  in  a  basin,  crush  with  a  wooden  spoon,  and  rub 
through  a  fine  hair  sieve.  Make  a  syrup  (about  one 
gill)  with  the  loaf  sugar  ;  put  the  fruit  pulp,  syrup,  eggs, 
and  Maraschino  in  a  copper  bowl,  and  whisk  over  a 
saucepan  of  boiling  water.  Dissolve  the  gelatine, 
previously  soaked  in  water,  and  strain  into  the  pulp, 
&c. ;  keep  stirring  over  the  hot  water  until  the  mixture 
binds ;  then  take  off,  beat  a  little  longer  over  some 
crushed  ice.  When  sufficiently  cool,  fill  up  the  moulds 
and  leave  on  the  ice  until  quite  set.  Immerse  the 
moulds  in   tepid  water,   turn  out  neatly   on   a   dish, 


630  RECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

garnish  withchopped  wine  jelly  and  some  glace  cherries, 
and  serve. 

658.  Bananas  Farcies  aux  Praises. — 8  to  10  bananas 
(not  over-ripe),  J  lb.  best  scarlet  or  forest  strawberries 
or  a  gill  of  preserved  strawberry  pulp,  1  oz.  sugar 
(castor),  1  glass  Curagoa,  i  lemon. 

Choose  bananas  of  a  good  colour,  wipe  them  with  a 
cloth,  cut  off  the  stems,  and  split  them  in  halves  length- 
ways. Scoop  out  carefully  the  soft  portion  and  put  it  in 
a  basin  ;  add  to  it  the  strawberries  or  pulp,  which  should 
in  each  case  be  well  reduced,  without  being  burnt  ; 
mash  the  fruit  until  quite  smooth,  rub  through  a  hair 
sieve,  incorporate  the  liqueur  and  a  few  drops  of  lemon 
juice;  add  a  little  castor  sugar  if  necessary.  Fill  the 
banana  shells,  place  two  halves  together,  tie  up  with 
string,  and  put  on  the  ice.  When  required  for  serving, 
remove  the  string  and  tie  each  with  a  piece  of  narrow 
ribbon. 

659.  Chartreuse  de  Pommes  a  la  Princesse. — 6  small 
cooking-apples,  ^  oz.  French  gelatine,  2  cloves,  the  rind 
of  I  lemon,  2  oz.  angelique,  about  3  oz.  sugar,  a  few  drops 
carmine  or  cochineal,  1  pint  jelly,  1  oz.  glace  cherries, 
^  gill  of  cream,  i  oz.  pistachios. 

Peel,  core,  and  slice  the  apples  ;  put  them  in  a  stew- 
pan  with  f  pint  of  water,  the  sugar,  lemon  rind,  and 
cloves,  and  cook  over  the  fire  ;  when  the  apples  are 
thoroughly  cooked,  remove  lemon  rind  and  cloves,  and 
rub  all  through  a  fine  sieve.  Dissolve  the  gelatine  and 
stir  in  with  the  jpuree  whilst  hot.  Divide  the  puree  in 
two,  mingle  one  part  with  a  little  thick  cream  and  the 
other  with  a  few  drops  of  cochineal ;  pour  into  separate 
saute-pans,  and  put  on  the  ice  to  set.  When  perfectly 
set,  stamp  out  some  half-moon  and  diamond-shape 
pieces.  Stand  a  charlotte  mould  in  some  ice,  mask  the 
sides  with  Hquid  jelly,  dip  each  piece  of  apple  puree 
into  the  jelly,  and  arrange  these,  together  with  fancifully- 
cut  pieces  of  angelique,  tastefully  at  the  bottom  and 
sides  of  the  mould.  Place  a  smaller  mould  in  the  centre 
of  this,  so  as  to  leave  about  an  inch  of  space  all  round  : 


COLD    SWEETS    AND    ICES.  631 

fill  this  carefully  with  half- set  jelly  and  allow  it  to  set 
firmly.  Dissolve  separately  the  trimmings  of  the  purees 
used  ;  add  the  remainder  of  cream  previously  whipped, 
sweeten  to  taste,  mix  equally  with  about  a  gill  of  jelly. 
Eemove  the  mould  in  the  centre  and  fill  the  cavity  by 
degrees  with  layers  of  this  preparation.  Be  sure  you 
allow  each  layer  to  set  before  you  put  on  the  next. 
Between  each  layer  sprinkle  the  pistachio  nuts, 
previously  blanched,  peeled,  dried,  and  chopped.  Stand 
on  the  ice  until  required,  then  immerse  in  tepid  water, 
turn  out,  and  serve. 

660.  Charlotte  a  la  St.  Jose. — 15  to  20  sponge  finger- 
biscuits,  I  pint  cream,  |  gill  milk,  4  oz.  preserved  pine- 
apple, I  oz.  gelatine,  1  oz.  castor  sugar,  about  2  gills 
wine  jelly. 

Mask  the  bottom  of  a  plain  mould  with  jelly,  orna- 
ment with  fancifully-cut  slices  of  pineapple,  with  half 
a  glace  cherry  in  the  centre ;  pour  the  rest  of  the  jelly 
when  nearly  set  on  this,  let  it  set  on  the  ice,  and  line 
the  sides  with  finger-biscuits,  the  sides  and  one  end  of 
which  must  be  neatly  trimmed  before  being  used  for 
lining.  Soak  the  gelatine  in  the  milk ;  let  it  dissolve 
over  the  fire ;  whip  up  the  cream,  mix  with  the 
remainder  of  pineapple  cut  into  small  dice ;  add  the 
sugar  and  a  tablespoonful  of  pineapple  syrup ;  strain 
the  gelatine  and  milk  into  the  cream  ;  mix  well,  and 
when  cool  enough  pour  carefully  into  the  mould.  Keep 
in  a  cool  place  until  required,  turn  out,  and  serve. 

661.  Charlotte  aux  Fraises.— 3  doz.  or  more  finger- 
biscuits,  IJ  pint  strawberry  pulp,  3  oz.  castor  sugar, 
IJ  gill  cream,  1  oz.  gelatine. 

Cut  enough  finger-biscuits  into  long  triangles  to 
form  a  rosette  at  the  bottom  of  a  charlotte  mould. 
Stamp  out  a  small  round  in  the  centre  and  put  in  a 
crystallised  strawberry  or  cherry.  Trim  the  ends  and 
sides  of  as  many  biscuits  as  may  be  required  to  line 
the  sides  of  the  mould  ;  place  the  biscuits  close  together 
in  an  upright  position.  Bring  the  pulp  to  the  boil, 
sweeten  with  sugar,  dissolve  the  gelatine,  and  add  to  the 


632  RECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

pulp.  Rub  through  a  hair  sieve,  and  let  cool  a  little  ; 
whip  the  cream,  sweeten  with  sugar,  and  mix  with  the 
pulp.  Fill  up  the  lined  mould  with  this,  but  not  until 
it  commences  to  set,  and  put  the  mould  on  the  ice. 
When  thoroughly  set,  turn  out  on  to  a  folded  napkin, 
and  serve. 

662.  Bordure  de  Marions  a  la  Chantilly. — About 
1  quart  chestnuts,  half  their  weight  of  loaf  sugar,  about 
1  pint  milk,  i  oz.  French  leaf  gelatine,  2  inches  vanilla 
po(3,  1  gill  cream,  ^  oz.  vanilla  sugar,  1  oz.  chocolate, 
1  gill  sweet  jelly. 

Wipe  and  shell  the  chestnuts,  scald  them  in  boiling 
water,  and  remove  the  skins.  Cook  till  tender  in  milk, 
together  with  the  vanilla  pod.  When  done,  take  out 
the  vanilla  and  rub  through  a  wire  sieve.  Put  the  loaf 
sugar  in  a  stewpan,  add  about  a  gill  of  water,  and 
reduce  to  a  syrup.  Dissolve  the  gelatine,  and  strain 
with  the  syrup ;  mix  the  chestnut  juice  with  this,  and 
stir  over  the  fire  until  it  becomes  quite  smooth ;  turn 
into  a  basin  and  let  cool.  Melt  the  chocolate  with  the 
jelly,  strain  and  let  cool  a  little  ;  mask  the  inside  of  a 
border-mould  with  this,  and  put  on  the  ice  to  set ;  then 
fill  up  with  the  half- set  chestnut  mixture  and  keep  cool 
to  set  well.  Whip  the  cream  till  stiff,  sweeten  with 
vanilla  sugar,  and  put  on  a  sieve  to  drain.  Immerse 
the  mould  in  tepid  water,  wipe  it  with  a  cloth,  turn  out 
on  a  dish.  Dress  the  cream  in  the  centre  in  the  shape 
of  a  pyramid,  and  serve. 

663.  Bordure  aux  Prunes  a  la  Creme. — 1  lb.  prunes, 
^  lb.  loaf  sugar,  1  gill  claret,  the  rind  of  half  a  lemon 
thinly  cut,  1  inch  cinnamon  stick,  ^  oz.  leaf  gelatine, 
1  gill  cream. 

Stone  the  prunes,  put  them  on  the  fire  in  a  fire- 
proof pot  or  stewpan  with  the  lemon  rind,  cinnamon, 
claret,  sugar,  and  just  a  little  water.  Stew  slowly  until 
tender,  adding  a  little  more  claret  if  needed  ;  take  out 
cinnamon  and  lemon  rind.  Pass  through  a  fine  sieve, 
dissolve  the  gelatine,  and  strain  into  the  prepared  pulp; 
I  oz.  is  reckoned  to  be  sufficient  for  every  pint  of  pulp. 


COLD    SWEETS    AND    ICES.  683 

Mix  well,  cool  a  little,  pour  into  a  border- mould  pre- 
viously lined  with  clear  wine  jelly.  When  cold  and  set, 
immerse  in  tepid  water,  turn  out  on  a  dish,  decorate 
with  shreds  of  pistachio  kernels  and  almonds.  Whip 
the  cream,  sweeten  slightly  with  vanilla  sugar,  put  it  in 
the  centre  of  the  mould,  and  serve. 

664.  Bordure  de  Figues  a  la  Greme. — |  lb.  dried 
figs,  the  rind  of  half  a  lemon,  1  oz.  castor  sugar,  ^  oz. 
French  gelatine,  J  pint  claret,  1  gill  whipped  cream. 

Cut  the  figs  into  small  pieces,  put  them  into  a  stew- 
pan  with  the  sugar  and  lemon  rmd ;  moisten  with  the 
claret,  or,  if  preferred,  with  the  same  quantity  of  water 
instead  of  the  claret.  Simmer  gently  on  the  stove  or  in 
the  oven  until  tender.  Soak  the  gelatine,  dissolve  it, 
and  add  to  the  figs.  Remove  the  lemon  rind,  and  put 
the  whole  through  a  sieve.  Stir  in  a  little  cream  (about 
^  gill),  pour  into  a  border-mould;  when  set,  turn  out  on 
a  cold  dish,  put  the  whipped  cream,  slightly  sweetened 
with  vanilla  sugar,  in  the  centre,  and  serve. 

N.B. — The  liquor  put  with  the  figs  should  be  ahnost 
absorbed  by  the  time  they  are  done. 

665.  Oranges  Glacees  a  la  Napolitaine. — 4  to  6  fine 
even-sized  oranges,  vanilla  custard,  wine  jelly,  spinach 
greening,  1  glass  green  Chartreuse. 

Wipe  the  oranges,  make  an  mcision  on  top  of  each 
with  a  pastry- cutter  about  Ij  inch  diameter,  remove  the 
covers  with  a  small  knife,  and  lay  them  aside  till  later. 
Scoop  out  the  centre  of  the  oranges  with  a  small  tea- 
spoon, being  careful  not  to  break  the  skin  (the  pulp  may 
be  used  for  some  other  purpose).  Arrange  the  orange 
shells  in  a  tin,  place  the  tin  in  a  basin  or  tub  surrounded 
with  broken  ice.  Fill  the  oranges  in  alternate  layers 
with  vanilla  cream  and  jelly,  the  latter  being  prepared 
in  two  colours,  red  and  green,  being  flavoured  with 
raspberry  and  Cura9oa,  or  Chartreuse.  Each  layer  must 
be  set  before  the  other  is  poured  in.  Put  on  the  covers 
before  the  top  layer  is  set.  When  well  set  and  firm, 
cut  the  oranges  carefully  into  quarters  (this  is  best 
done  with   a   knife  dipped  in  hot  water),  dress  them 


G34  RECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

on  a  dish  with  a  folded  napkin   or  dish-papers,  and 
serve. 

666.  Compote  de  Pommes  a  la  Creme. — 1  lb.  cooking- 
apples,  2  cloves,  lemon  rind,  i  lb.  loaf  sugar,  |  pint 
milk,  2  yolks  of  eggs,  1  oz.  vanilla  sugar,  1  glass  sherry, 
1  glass  Maraschino,  |  piot  whipped  cream. 

Peel  and  core  and  stew  the  apples  with  the  loaf 
sugar,  cloves,  lemon  rind,  and  sufficient  water  to  cover. 
Strain  off  the  juice  and  put  the  apple  stew  in  a  glass 
dish.  Prepare  a  thick  custard  by  boiling  the  milk, 
sweetened  with  vanilla  sugar,  flavoured  with  sherry  and 
thickened  with  the  egg-yolks.  Let  the  custard  get  cold, 
then  pour  over  the  apples.  Sweeten  the  cream  slightly 
before  it  is  whipped,  and  add  the  Maraschino  at  the 
last.  Put  on  a  sieve  to  strain  for  a  short  time,  then 
put  the  cream  roughly  on  the  apple  and  custard  ;  orna- 
ment according  to  taste,  and  serve. 

667.  Gateau  Surpris  aux  Fraises. — 8  eggs,  8  oz. 
castor  sugar,  10  oz.  sifted  flour,  8  oz.  ground  and  sifted 
almonds,  10  oz.  butter,  chocolate  icing  and  royal  icing, 
10  wafer  cornets,  about  1  quart  of  strawberry  ice  cream, 
1  oz.  cbopped  pistachio,  custard  for  filling  cornets. 

Break  the  eggs  into  a  copper  bowl  or  basin,  add  the 
sugar,  and  whip  well  for  a  few  minutes.  Stand  it  over 
a  stewpan  with  boiling  water  and  beat  vigorously  with 
a  whisk  for  about  twenty  minutes.  Butter  and  flour  a 
large  saute-pan  or  deep  square  baking-sheet.  When 
the  mixture  is  sufficiently  worked,  stir  in  by  degrees  the 
sifted  flour,  the  sifted  ground  almonds,  and  the  butter 
(melted);  mix  carefully  but  well;  pour  into  the  tin 
and  bake  in  a  moderately-heated  oven  from  twenty-five 
to  thirty  minutes.  When  cold,  cut  out  as  many  rounds 
as  are  required,  but  each  one  must  be  smaller  than  the 
other.  Stamp  out  the  centre  of  each  round  thus  obtained 
to  form  rings  about  an  inch  or  one  and  a  half  inch 
broad,  leaving  the  largest  and  the  smallest  ones  whole. 
The  largest  will  form  the  bottom  and  the  smallest  the 
top  of  the  "  Gateau."  Have  some  apricot  jam  made 
liquid,  place  the  large  round  on  a  dish,  spread  the  tops  and 


COLD    SWEETS    AND    ICES.  635 

bottoms  of  the  rings  with  apricot  jam  and  fasten  them 
together,  commencing  with  the  largest  so  as  to  form  a 
pyramid.  Allow  the  gateau  to  set  and  coat  the  outside 
with  chocolate  icing.  Ornament  with  royal  icing  to  taste. 
Do  not  fasten  the  top  piece.  Fill  the  cornets  with  a 
previously  prepared  custard  (creme  patissiere),  sprinkle 
the  tops  with  chopped  pistachio  kernels,  fasten  them 
by  means  of  a  little  icing  in  a  row  round  the  gateau. 
When  the  dish  is  wanted  for  table,  remove  the  top  piece 
and  fill  with  well-frozen  strawberry  ice  cream  ;  replace 
the  top,  and  serve.  The  chocolate  icing  can  be  substi- 
tuted with  strawberry  fondant  or  orange  fondant 
icing. 

668.  Cornets  de  Nougat  a  la  Creme. — i  lb.  sweet 
almonds,  ^  lb.  sugar,  |  lemon,  1  gill  cream,  vanilla 
sugar,  pistachio  kernels  for  garnish. 

Blanch,  peel,  and  shred  the  almonds  finely,  put 
them  on  a  baking-sheet,  and  bake  in  a  cool  oven  a 
fawn  colour.  Put  h  lb.  castor  sugar  in  a  copper  pan, 
add  the  strained  juice  of  half  lemon,  cook  until  it  is  a 
light  brown,  add  the  shredded  almonds,  stir  well  and 
let  boil  again.  Pour  quickly  on  to  an  oiled  marble  slab, 
stamp  out  some  very  thin  circles  about  two  and  a  half 
inches  in  diameter.  Wrap  each  quickly  round  an  oiled 
cornet  mould,  put  in  a  second  mould  so  as  to  keep  in 
shape.  Remove  when  cool ;  whip  the  cream,  sweeten 
with  a  little  vanilla  sugar ;  fill  the  cornets  with  this, 
sprinkle  with  a  few  chopped  pistachio  kernels,  and  serve. 
The  edges  of  the  cornets  look  better  if  garnished  with 
little  beads  of  royal  icing.  These  cornets  can  also  be 
filled  with  ice  cream  or  any  kind  of  sweet  custard,  and 
will  thus  make  a  pleasant  change. 

669.  Gateaux  Savigny. — 8  eggs,  J  lb.  castor  sugar, 
2  inches  vanilla  pod,  6  oz.  almonds  (sweet),  6  oz.  butter, 
6  oz.  flour,  coffee  icing,  almond  cream. 

Blanch  and  peel  the  almonds,  shred  them  coarsely, 
and  place  them  on  a  baking- sheet  in  the  oven  until  of 
a  fawny  brown.  Break  the  eggs  in  a  basin,  add  the 
sugar  and  the  vanilla,  beat  up  with  a  wooden  spoon 


636  RECHEECHE    COOKERY. 

until  creamy,  stand  the  basin  in  a  vessel  of  hot  water 
over  the  fire,  and  whisk  until  it  has  the  appearance  of  a 
thick  Genoise  mixture.  Take  out  the  vanilla,  add  the 
almonds,  and  mix  in  gradually  the  sifted  flour  and 
melted  butter.  Put  the  preparation  in  a  well-buttered 
saute-pan,  bake  in  a  slow  oven  for  about  twenty-five 
minutes,  turn  out  and  let  cool.  Divide  the  gateau  in  two 
rounds,  take  out  a  little  of  the  soft  crumbs,  spread  with 
creme  d'amandes  or  praline  d'amandes,  close  together 
neatly;  cut  into  any  desired  shapes,  diamonds,  fingers, 
or  ovals,  mask  the  surface  with  fondant  icing  flavoured 
with  coftee,  and  sprinkle  over  with  finely-chopped  roasted 
almonds. 

670.  Creme  d'Amandes  for  Gateaux  Savigny. — ^  lb. 
sweet  almonds,  2  oz.  bitter  almonds,  4  oz.  castor  sugar, 
1  glass  Maraschino,  1  tablespoonful  orange-flower  water, 
1^  oz.  flour,  1  oz.  butter,  ^  pint  milk,  2  yolks  of  eggs. 

Put  the  butter  in  a  stewpan  ;  when  melted,  stir  in  the 
flour,  let  it  cook  for  a  minute  or  two,  pour  in  the  milk 
(boiling),  mix  well  and  work  in  the  yolks  of  eggs,  stir  over 
the  fire  until  the  eggs  are  set,  then  turn  into  a  basin 
and  let  cool.  Blanch  and  peel  the  almonds,  chop  them 
very  finely,  place  on  a  baking-sheet  covered  with  apiece 
of  paper,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  until  light  brown. 
Put  the  baked  almonds  in  a  mortar,  pound  them,  and 
add  by  degrees  the  cooked  custard,  Maraschino,  and 
orange-flower  water,  mix  thoroughly,  and  use  as 
directed. 

671.  Gateau  de  Savoie  a  la  Chantilly. — Separate 
seven  whites  of  eggs  from  the  yolks,  placing  the  whites 
in  a  copper  egg-bowl  and  the  yolks  in  a  white  basin  ; 
add  half  a  pound  of  powdered  sugar  and  a  few  drops  of 
vanilla  essence  to  the  yolks  ;  w^ork  these  well  together 
until  it  has  the  appearance  of  a  light  creamy  substance. 
Sift  half  a  pound  of  dried  flour  on  to  a  plate.  Add  a 
pinch  of  salt  to  the  whites  of  eggs,  and  whisk  them  into 
a  stiff  froth  ;  next  proceed  to  mix  the  whites,  the  yolks, 
and  the  flour  carefully,  and  in  small  quantities  at  a 
time.     The  mixture  is  then  poured  into  a  well  greased 


COLD    SWEETS    AND    ICES.  6&7 

and  sugared  border-mould.  Tie  a  paper  band  round  and 
above  the  edge  of  the  mould,  and  bake  in  a  very  slow 
oven  for  about  half  an  hour.  When  done,  turn  out  on 
a  sieve  to  get  cool.  When  ready  for  serving,  whisk  a 
half-pint  or  more  of  double  cream.  Sweeten  slightly 
with  vanilla  sugar ;  dish  up  the  hordure  on  a  round 
dish  ;  dress  the  cream  in  the  centre,  and  serve. 

672.  Cotelettes  en  Surprise. — Roll  and  stamp  out  on 
a  floured  board  twelve  thin  heart -shapes  of  feuilletage 
paste,  put  a  teaspoonful  of  apricot  marmalade  on  one 
side  of  each,  and  about  half  a  teaspoonful  of  soft  almond 
paste  on  top  ;  wet  the  edges,  fold  over,  press  down  the 
edges  well,  and  give  them  the  shape  of  cutlets  as  near 
as  possible ;  put  them  on  a  baking- sheet  and  bake  ; 
when  cold,  baste  the  cakes  with  dissolved  apricot 
marmalade,  and  roll  them  in  crushed  macaroons  ;  have 
ready  some  short  pieces  of  baked  almond  paste,  insert 
one  in  the  small  end  of  each  to  imitate  bones  ;  make  a 
skewer  red  hot  to  imitate  the  gridn-on  marks.  Dish  up 
the  cakes  in  a  circular  form  on  a  thin  layer  of  apricot 
marmalade  ;  pour  some  melted  red-currant  jelly  when 
nearly  cold  in  the  centre,  and  serve.  This  is  a  very 
efifective  dish,  but  needs  some  practice  in  the  shaping  of 
cutlets. 

673.  Napolitaines  a  la  Suisse. — \  lb.  castor  sugar, 
4  eggs,  I  lb.  butter,  1  gill  of  milk,  pinch  of  carbonate  of 
soda,  a  little  pounded  nutmeg,!  teaspoonful  chopped  lemon 
rind,  10  oz.  best  flour,  2  oz.  sweet  almonds,  puff-paste 
trimmings,  macaroon  or  almond  paste,  greengage  and 
apricot  jam,  1  tablespoonful  ground  chocolate,  a  few 
drops  of  liquid  carmine. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar  well,  add  the  eggs  one 
at  a  time  ;  when  nicely  creamed,  add  the  nutmeg,  lemon 
rind,  carbonate,  and  flour  ;  mix  the  whole  well.  Divide 
the  mixture  into  three  portions,  and  colour  two  portions 
respectively,  one  pink  with  carmine,  and  the  other 
brown  with  the  ground  chocolate.  Spread  the  three 
lots  separately  on  a  paper-lined  baking-sheet,  about 
half-an-inch  in  thickness,  and  bake  in   a   slow  oven, 


638  PiECHEECHE    COOKERY. 

without  letting  it  take  colour  ;  when  done,  turn  out  and 
let  cool.  Roll  out  into  a  square  strip  about  J  lb.  of 
puff-paste,  one-eighth  of  an  inch  thick,  place  on  a 
baking -sheet,  prick  it  here  and  there  to  prevent  it  from 
bhstering,  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  ;  when  done,  cut  it 
in  half,  and  spread  over  with  dissolved  apricot  jam. 
Cut  the  previously  baked  mixture  into  strips  the  width 
of  the  puft'-paste ;  lay  them  alternately  across  one- 
half  of  the  puff-paste  until  the  whole  of  the  jam  is 
covered.  Roll  out  some  almond  paste,  and  put  a  thin 
layer  over  the  strips,  spread  over  with  greengage  jam, 
repeat  the  layers  of  strips  as  before,  taking  care  that  the 
strips  laid  over  are  of  a  different  colour  to  those  first 
placed,  so  that  if  the  first  is  pink,  the  next  should  be 
brown,  and  if  yellow,  the  next  should  be  pink  or  brown, 
and  so  on.  Cover  over  with  a  thm  layer  of  apricot  jam, 
and,  last  of  all,  another  layer  of  almond  paste ;  now  put 
the  other  half  of  puff-paste  on  top,  so  as  to  cover  the 
whole,  press  it  between  two  boards,  and  place  some 
weights  on  top ;  let  it  remain  thus  for  about  two  hours. 
Remove  weight  and  board,  spread  a  layer  of  meringuage 
over  the  surface,  sprinkle  with  shredded  almonds,  place 
the  cake  in  the  oven  long  enough  to  set  the  meringue 
mixture,  and  cut  into  convenient  pieces. 

674.  Meringues  a  la  Chantilly. — 5  whites  of  eggs, 
i  lb.  castor  sugar,  3  dessert-spoonfuls  vanilla  sugar, 
about  ^  pint  cream. 

Take  great  care  in  separating  the  yolks  from  the 
whites  of  eggs ;  put  the  latter  in  a  clean  copper  egg- 
bowl  mth  a  tiny  pinch  of  salt,  and  whisk  slowly  at  first, 
increasing  the  speed  until  it  becomes  a  hard  froth. 
Mix  in  quickly,  but  sparingly  at  first,  the  castor  sugar 
and  one  dessert -spoonful  of  vanilla  sugar.  Have  ready 
a  large  baking-sheet  lined  with  foolscap  paper.  Put  the 
mixture  into  two  large  paper  cornets  or  a  forcing-bag  (not 
quite  full).  If  paper  cornets  are  used,  cut  off  the  point 
ends,  close  the  large  end,  and  press  out  on  to  the  baking- 
sheet  some  evenly-sized  egg-shapes  ;  dust  with  sugar, 
and  bake  in  a  very  slack  oven  from  twenty  to  twenty-five 


COLD    SWEETS    AND    ICES.  639 

minutes.  Remove  the  sliolls  from  the  paper,  press 
down  carefully  the  inside  part  of  each  shell,  and  dry  in 
a  cool  oven.  Fill  the  shells  with  whipped  cream, 
sweetened  with  vanilla  sugar,  place  them  together  in 
the  usual  way,  dish  up,  and  serve.  Meringue  shells 
thus  made  may  be  kept  for  several  days,  but  should  be 
put  in  a  tin  box  in  a  dry  place. 

675.  Glace  Napolitaine. — ^  pint  of  strawberry  or 
raspberry  pulp,  1  oz.  chocolate,  6  yolks  of  eggs,  1  tea- 
spoonful  vanilla  essence,  3  pints  milk,  1  pint  cream, 
6  oz.  castor  sugar,  cochineal,  crushed  ice,  and  freezing 
salt. 

Work  the  yolks  of  eggs  with  half  the  quantity  of 
sugar  until  smooth.  Boil  up  the  milk,  add  the  re- 
mainder of  the  sugar,  and  pour  on  to  the  egg  mixture, 
stirring  vigorously.  Return  to  the  stewpan  and  stir 
over  a  slow  fire  until  the  liaison  is  formed  (this  wdll  take 
three  or  four  minutes).  Strain  into  a  basin.  Grate  the 
chocolate,  put  it  in  a  small  stewpan  w^ith  a  table- 
spoonful  of  water  ;  when  dissolved,  mix  about  one -third 
of  the  cooked  cream,  work  well,  and  let  cool.  Mix 
the  fruit  pulp  with  half  the  remainder  of  cooked 
cream,  colour  with  a  few  drops  of  cochineal  if  necessary. 
Add  the  vanilla  essence  with  the  other  half.  Divide 
the  fresh  cream  into  equal  proportions  with  the  three 
kinds  of  preparations  ;  freeze  each  lot  separately.  Pack 
in  layers  in  a  mould.  Cover  closely  and  pack  in  ice  and 
salt  for  about  two  hours.  Unmould,  cut  into  con- 
venient pieces,  and  serve. 

676.  Glace  au  Marasquin. — 1  pint  milk,  4  oz.loaf 
sugar,  6  yolks  of  eggs,  ^  pint  cream,  2  glasses  Maras- 
chino, ice,  and  freezing  salt. 

Boil  the  milk  and  add  the  sugar.  Put  the  yolks  of 
eggs  in  a  basin,  mix  thoroughly,  and  stir  in  the  hot  milk. 
Return  to  the  pan  in  which  the  milk  was  boiled,  and 
stir  over  the  fire  until  it  begins  to  thicken  (on  no 
account  let  it  boil).  Strain  through  a  fine  hair  sieve,  and 
let  it  cool.  Beat  the  cream  to  a  froth,  and  mix  with  the 
above,  together  with  the  Maraschino  liqueur.  Freeze  the 


(340  RECHERCHE    COOKER'S. 

preparation  in  the  usual  manner.  Fill  up  a  mould,  cover 
hermetically,  and  bury  in  crushed  ice  and  coarse  salt 
for  about  two  hours.  Immerse  in  cold  water,  wipe  the 
mould,  turn  out  quickly,  and  serve  on  a  folded  napkin. 

677.  Glace  a  la  Grappe  de  Muscat. — 6  oz.  Muscatel 
grapes,  3  oz.  sugar  (castor),  J  pint  cream,  the  juice 
of  a  lemon,  1  white  of  egg,  1  liqueur-glass  Chartreuse, 
1  glass  sherry  (if  Hked),  1  gill  syrup. 

Put  the  grapes  in  a  basin,  mash  up  with  a  wooden 
spoon,  add  the  sugar,  and  rub  through  a  fine  hair  sieve, 
using  the  syrup.  Strain  the  lemon  juice  into  the  pulp  ; 
put  all  in  a  freezer  and  freeze  partially.  Beat  up  the 
cream  a  little ;  mix  this,  add  also  the  white  of  egg 
whisked  to  a  stiff  froth,  and,  lastly,  the  liqueur,  and  wme 
if  Uked.  Finish  freezing,  mould  or  serve  roughly 
dressed.  A  few  drops  of  spinach  greening  may  be 
added  to  give  the  ice  a  delicate  tint  of  green.  If  this  ice 
is  moulded,  the  bottom  of  the  mould  may  be  decorated 
with  a  few  grapes  and  angelica  leaves,  the  pips  of  the 
grapes  being  previously  removed. 

678.  Glace  Plombiere  a  la  Japonaise. — Prepare  a 
custard  with  one  and  a  half  pint  of  milk,  eight  yolks  of 
eggs,  and  one  ounce  of  sugar  ;  stir  the  custard  over  the 
fire  to  bind  the  yolks,  press  through  a  hair  sieve ;  add 
three  ounces  of  apricot  marmalade,  six  ounces  of  ground 
almonds,  one  glass  of  Kirschwasser,  and  a  pinch  of  salt ; 
when  cold,  mix  with  half  a  pint  of  whipped  cream  and 
four  ounces  of  powdered  macaroons.  Freeze  in  the 
usual  manner  in  mould,  put  a  small  quantity  of  apricot 
marmalade  in  the  centre.  Serve  with  small  ratafia 
biscuits  round  the  dish. 

679.  Glace  auxFraisesala  Parisienne. — 1  lb.  small- 
size  strawberries,  ^  lb.  ripe  raspberries,  1  lb.  loaf  sugar, 
a  good  pint  of  water,  2  lemons,  12  lb.  ice,  4  lb.  freezing 

salt. 

Wash  and  pick  the  fruit ;  drain  well,  rub  through  a 
fine  hair  sieve,  and  add  the  juice  of  two  lemons,  which 
should  also  be  passed  through  the  sieve.  Put  sugar 
and  water  into  a  copper   stewpan,  heat  up  mitil  the 


COLD    SWEETS    AND    ICES.  641 

former  is  melted,  skim  and  mix  with  the  fruit  pulp. 
Let  cool.  Break  up  or  pound  the  ice,  mix  well  with 
freezing  salt,  fix  the  ice  pail  (sorbetiere)  with  broken 
ice  and  salt  in  the  centre  of  a  wooden  tub,  and  freeze 
the  syrup  in  the  ordinary  way.  Fill  in  a  suitably  shaped 
mould,  close  up  so  that  it  is  hermetically  sealed,  and 
bury  in  a  pail  of  broken  ice  mixed  with  salt  for  about 
two  hours.  When  required  for  table,  immerse  in  cold 
water  ;  wipe  the  mould  with  a  cloth,  uncover,  and  turn 
out  on  a  folded  napkin  or  dish-paper  on  a  dish,  and 
serve.  The  quantity  of  freezing  salt  required  for 
freezing  purposes  is  about  a  quarter  of  a  pound  to  every 
pound  of  ice. 

680.  Glace  au  Caramel.— 4  oz.  loaf  sugar,  6  oz. 
castor  sugar,  1  quart  milk,  Ih  pint  cream,  1  teaspoonful 
vanilla  essence  or  1  tablespoonful  of  vanilla  sugar,  ice, 
and  freezing  salt. 

Put  the  loaf  sugar  into  a  copper  sugar-boiler  or  iron 
fryingpan.  Add  a  few  drops  of  water  and  stir  over 
the  fire  until  it  melts,  turns  brown,  boils,  and  ultimately 
smokes.  Boil  the  milk  and  stir  into  the  burnt  sugar, 
boil  up  again,  strain,  and  let  cool.  Add  the  castor 
sugar  while  still  hot.  Incorporate  a  pint  of  cream  when 
cool,  and  flavour  with  vanilla.  Whip  the  remainder  of 
cream,  and  mix  with  the  above.  Put  into  the  freezer 
surrounded  with  plenty  of  crushed  ice  mixed  with  coarse 
salt,  and  freeze  in  the  usual  way.  Work  the  mixture 
well  to  get  it  perfectly  smooth.  When  set,  pack  into 
one  or  two  moulds,  wrap  the  moulds  in  paper,  repack  in 
crushed  ice  and  salt.  Keep  thus  for  two  hours,  then 
unwrap,  wipe  the  moulds,  immerse  in  cold  water,  turn 
out,  and  dish  up. 

681.  Glace  au  Moka. — 8  light  tablespoonfuls  ground 
coffee,  1  quart  water,  6  oz.  castor  sugar,  1  inch  vanilla 
pod,  4  pint  milk,  f  pint  cream,  ice,  and  freezing  salt. 

Have  ready  a  hot  dry  coffee-pot,  put  the  coffee  in 
the  filter,  pour  over  little  by  little  the  water  (boiling), 
put  on  the  lid  ;  when  the  water  has  run  through,  repeat, 
pouring  it  through  a  second  time  ;  stand  it  in  the  bain- 


642  RECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

marie  until  required.  Put  the  milk,  sugar,  and  vanilla 
in  a  stewpan,  heat  up,  but  do  not  let  it  boil ;  add  the 
coffee,  let  it  cool,  and  stir  in  the  cream.  Take  out  the 
vanilla  and  pour  into  an  ice-freezer,  previously  placed 
in  a  tub  containing  broken  ice  mixed  with  coarse  salt 
(freezing  salt).  Freeze  until  it  resembles  a  creamy 
substance  ;  fill  up  into  little  glasses  and  serve.  Coffee 
thus  prepared  should  be  in  a  liquid  state  when  served. 
A  bowl  of  castor  sugar  should  be  handed  round  at  the 
same  time. 

682.  Biscuit  Glace  aux  Fraises. — Make  a  straw- 
berry custard  with  a  gill  of  milk,  two  egg-yolks,  ^  oz. 
sugar,  and  a  few  pulped  strawberries  to  colour  and 
flavour  ;  when  cold,  freeze  till  nearly  stiff.  Prepare  one 
pint  of  thick  syrup  with  about  12  oz.  of  loaf  sugar, 
water,  and  vanilla  bean  for  flavouring  ;  whilst  the  syrup 
is  warm  pour  it  into  a  basin  containing  eight  well-beaten 
yolks  of  eggs ;  stir  quickly  over  the  fire  with  a  wire 
whisk  until  the  mixture  thickens  ;  stir  until  it  becomes 
cold ;  next  mix  IJ  pint  of  whipped  cream  and  1  oz.  of 
powdered  sponge  cakes  ;  put  it  on  the  ice,  and  freeze 
when  wanted.  Line  the  bottom  of  an  oblong  ice-mould 
with  the  prepared  strawberry  ice,  let  it  set  firmly  ;  fill 
up  with  the  cream  last  prepared  when  same  is  nearly 
frozen  ;  cover  the  mould  well,  bury  in  salt  and  ice,  and 
freeze  for  two  hours. 

683.  Mousse  aux  Poires.— 4  large  or  six  small 
stewing  pears,  10  oz.  castor  sugar,  10  drops  vanilla 
essence,  i  pint  cream,  ice  and  freezing  salt. 

Pare  and  core  the  pears,  cut  up  into  slices,  put  them 
in  a  copper  pan  with  sufficient  water  to  well  cover. 
Add  the  sugar  and  cook  until  tender,  or  put  them  in  a 
fireproof  stone  casserole,  add  water  and  sugar,  and  cook 
in  the  oven  until  done.  Eub  through  a  fine  hair  sieve 
whilst  hot,  add  the  vanilla  essence,  and  stir  on  the  ice 
with  a  wooden  spoon  until  cold.  This  should  produce 
about  a  pint  of  pulp.  Line  a  charlotte  mould  with 
white  paper,  whip  the  cream  until  stiff,  mix  w^ith  the 
pulp  and  fill  into  the  mould,  cover  with  a  round  piece 


COLD    SWEETS   AND    ICES.  643 

of  paper  and  a  lid  fitting  the  mould,  so  as  to 
hermetically  seal  it.  Bury  the  mould  in  crushed  ice 
and  freezing  salt  for  at  least  two  hours.  When  required 
for  serving  take  out  the  mould,  immerse  in  cold  water, 
wipe  it  well,  remove  the  cover,  turn  on  a  dish  covered 
with  a  folded  napkin  or  fancy  dish-paper,  remove  the 
paper  lining,  and  serve  quickly. 

684.  Mousse  an  Curacao. — 3  gills  cream,  ^  gill 
Cura9oa,  2  oz.  castor  sugar. 

Put  the  cream  in  a  china  bowl,  set  in  a  tub  sur- 
rounded with  crushed  ice,  beat  it  with  a  whisk,  at  first 
slowly,  until  it  represents  a  stiff  froth,  adding  the 
castor  sugar  and  liqueur  last  of  all.  Fill  some  little 
souffle-cases,  place  them  carefully  in  an  ice-box  charged 
with  crushed  ice  and  freezing  salt,  or  transfer  the  bowl 
with  contents  to  a  charged  ice-box.  After  one-and-a- 
half  or  two  hours  it  will  be  set  and  ready  for  serving. 
In  this  case  dress  the  mousse  by  means  of  a  spoon  in  a 
pyramidal  form  on  a  glass  dish,  and  serve  quickly. 

N.B. — Various  flavours,  Maraschino,  Kirsch,  or 
Ehum  liqueurs  may  be  introduced  in  place  of  Cura9oa. 

686.  Mousse  au  Marasquin. — 4  yolks  of  egg,  1  lb. 
loaf  sugar,  1  pint  water,  ^  gill  Maraschino,  ^  gill  Kirsch - 
wasser,  about  ^  pint  cream,  ice  and  freezing  salt. 

Put  the  sugar  and  water  in  a  copper  pan,  boil  up 
slowly,  remove  the  scum,  and  boil  until  it  becomes  a 
syrup  registering  36  degrees  by  the  saccharometer  (pise- 
sirop,  or  syrup- scale).  Beat  up  the  yolks  of  eggs  in 
a  basin,  stir  in  the  hot  syrup,  add  the  two  liqueurs,  stir 
with  a  whisk  over  a  stewpan  of  boiling  water  for  about 
six  minutes,  taking  care  that  the  eggs  do  not  curdle. 
Place  the  basin  in  a  cool  place,  stirring  the  contents 
whilst  cooling.  Have  ready  a  plain  charlotte  mould 
lined  with  white  paper,  add  the  cream,  well  whipped, 
to  the  mixture  when  cool,  and  fill  the  mould.  Cover 
with  a  piece  of  paper,  close  up  with  a  lid  so  as  to  her- 
metically seal  the  mould,  bury  it  in  a  pail  of  crushed 
ice  and  freezing  salt.  Let  it  remain  thus  for  at  least 
two  hours.     When  required  for  serving,  immerse  the 

41 


644  RECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

mould  in  cold  water,  wipe  well,  remove  the  lid,  turn 
out  on  a  dish  covered  with  a  folded  napkin  or  dish- 
paper,  remove  the  paper  lining,  and  serve  quickly. 

686.  Sorbet  d' Ananas. — 2  lb.  fresh  or  preserved 
pineapple,  1^  lb.  castor  sugar,  2  lemons,  2  eggs 
(whites),  1  liqueur-glassful  of  Kirsch,  1  ditto  glassful 
rum. 

Peel  the  pineapple  thinly  (if  fi-esh  fruit  is  used),  take 
out  the  eyes,  and  cut  into  shces.  Core  out  the  centre  of 
each  slice,  and  chop  the  slices  very  finely.  Put  it 
into  a  basin,  add  the  castor  sugar  and  half  a  pint  of 
water ;  let  it  stew  thus  for  four  hours  or  longer.  Put 
three  pints  of  water  in  a  copper  stewpan  ;  when  boiling, 
add  the'  above,  boil  up,  take  off  the  scum  which  rises  to 
the  top,  take  oft'  the  fire  and  let  cool.  When  ready  for 
freezing  strain  the  juice  of  two  lemons  into  the  syrup. 
Freeze  in  the  usual  manner ;  when  about  half  frozen 
stir  in  the  beaten  whites  of  eggs  and  liqueur.  Freeze  a 
little  longer.  When  it  has  the  appearance  of  a  creamy 
substance,  it  is  ready  for  serving.  Fill  up  in  sorbet 
cups  or  in  glasses  with  handles,  and  serve. 

687.  Sorbet  a  la  Romaine. — 6  oz.  loaf  sugar,  2  oz. 
castor  sugar,  3  small  lemons,  1  white  of  egg,  1  glass  of 
Jamaica  rum. 

Rub  the  loaf  sugar  on  two  lemons,  so  as  to  extract 
the  oil  from  the  yellow  part  of  the  rind  ;  put  the  sugar 
in  a  copper  pan,  moisten  with  1  gill  of  water ;  cut  the 
lemons  in  halves,  and  strain  the  juice  into  the  pan. 
When  the  sugar  is  dissolved  add  another  pint  of  water, 
boil  up,  skim,  and  cook  to  a  hght  syrup  (about  20  deg.). 
When  cool,  strain  the  syrup  into  a  freezer  surrounded 
with  crushed  ice  and  freezing  salt ;  proceed  to  fi'eeze  a 
little.  Beat  up  the  white  of  egg  to  a  stift'  froth  ;  put  the 
castor  sugar  on  the  fire  with  a  tablespoonful  of  water ; 
when  dissolved  pour  into  the  stiff  whites  and  mix  well ; 
add  the  rum  and  mmgle  with  the  half- frozen  ice  mixture. 
Work  well  with  a  spatula,  and  serve  in  little  goblets  or 
punch -glasses.     This  quantity  will  fill  7  or  8  glasses. 

688.  Parfait  au  Cafe. — 4  oz.  freshly-roasted  coftee, 


COLD    SWEETS    AND    ICES.  645 

i  pint  vanilla  syrup,  4  yolks  of  eggs,  h  pint  cream,  ice 
and  freezing  salt. 

Boil  up  the  syrup  and  pour  over  the  freshly-roasted 
(not  ground)  coffee,  so  as  to  make  an  infusion.  Allow 
it  to  stand  a  few  minutes,  then  strain  into  a  basin ; 
whisk  the  yolks  of  eggs  in  a  clean  stewpan  ;  stir  in  the 
syrup,  set  it  on  the  fire  and  whisk  until  the  yolks  begin 
to  bind,  strain  into  a  basin ;  add  a  few  drops  of  caramel 
if  needed,  and  let  cool  on  the  ice.  Freeze  in  a  sor- 
betiere  surrounded  with  crushed  ice  and  salt ;  when 
half-frozen  add  the  cream,  previously  whipped  to  a  froth. 
Put  the  mixture  in  a  cylindrical-shaped  mould,  well 
covered ;  place  in  a  pail  of  ice  and  salt  for  two  hours  ; 
turn  out  and  serve.  If  more  convenient,  the  parfait  may 
be  served  in  goblets. 

689.  Cafe  Frappe  en  Tasses  a  la  Viennoise. — 1  quart 
freshly  made  Mocha  coffee,  ^  pint  milk,  ^  pint  syrup, 
1  pint  cream,  1  glass  of  old  Cognac  or  Kirsch,  and 
freezing  salt. 

Mix  the  coffee,  syrup,  and  milk  (previously  boiled) 
together,  pour  into  the  freezer,  and  freeze  until  of  the 
consistency  of  batter  ;  whip  the  cream,  mix  three  parts 
thereof  with  the  iced  coffee,  stir  in  the  Kirsch  or  Cognac 
and  freeze  a  little  longer.  Fill  some  very  small  cups 
with  this,  put  a  teaspoonful  of  whipped  cream  on  top 
of  each,  and  serve  quickly.  Finger-biscuits  or  small 
vanilla  wafers  should  be  handed  round  at  the  same  time* 

690.  The  Glace  (Iced  Tea).— li  oz.  good  Ceylon  tea, 
1  quart  boiling  water,  ^  pint  cream,  4  oz.  castor  sugar^ 
1  lemon. 

Put  the  tea  in  a  teapot,  previously  heated,  pour  over 
the  water  (boiling),  allow  it  to  infuse  ;  then  pour  off 
into  an  ice-freezer,  previously  placed  in  a  tub  charged 
with  broken  ice  and  coarse  salt;  mix  the  tea  with  the 
sugar  and  cream.  Freeze  until  of  a  creamy  appearance, 
then  put  into  a  jug  and  serve  in  cups  or  glasses.  Cut 
the  lemon  into  thin  slices,  put  them  on  a  glass  dish,  and 
hand  round  with  the  iced  tea.  Tea  thus  prepared  should 
be  in  a  liquid  state  when  served ;  vanilla  flavouring  is 
sometimes  added,  but  is  not  recommended. 


CHAPTER  XIII, 
SAYOUEIES  AND  BEEAKFAST  DISHES. 

691.  Huitres  Gratines  en  Coquilles. — 18  oysters, 
1  oz.  butter,  |  leraon,  3  tablespoonfuls  bechamel,  white 
breadcrumbs,  cayenne  pepper  or  Oriental  salt,  parsley 
for  garnish. 

Open  the  oysters  and  remove  the  beards  ;  preserve  a 
little  of  the  liquor  and  18  round  shells.  Wash  the 
shells  and  wipe  dry  ;  butter  the  inside.  Put  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  bechamel  sauce  in  each  of  the  shells,  also  a  few 
drops  of  oyster  liquor  and  lemon  juice  ;  lay  the  bearded 
oysters  on  this,  season  with  a  dust  of  Oriental  salt  or 
■cayenne,  put  a  little  more  sauce  on  top  of  each  ;  sprinkle 
with  breadcrumbs,  and  lay  a  tiny  piece  of  butter  on  top  of 
•each.  Place  them  on  a  baking-sheet  in  a  quick  oven 
for  ten  minutes  or  less,  just  long  enough  to  slightly 
colour  the  top  ;  dish  up  on  a  very  hot  dish  on  a  folded 
napkin  ;  garnish  with  a  few  sprigs  of  freshly-picked 
parsley,  and  serve  as  hot  as  possible. 

692.  Huitres  a  la  Tsar. — 12  oysters,  12  rounds  of 
sliced  cooked  ox-tongue,  1  oz.  anchovy  paste,  3  oz. 
grated  Parmesan  cheese,  f  lemon,  3  oz.  flour,  1^  oz. 
butter,  1  yolk  of  egg,  salt,  and  cayenne. 

Sift  the  flour,  mix  it  with  2  oz.  grated  cheese,  and 
rub  in  the  butter ;  add  a  pinch  of  salt  and  a  dust  of 
cayenne,  and  work  into  a  stiff  paste  with  the  egg-yolk. 
Roll  out,  stamp  out  some  rounds  about  two  inches  in 
diameter,  place  them  on  a  buttered  baking- sheet,  and 
bake  a  golden  colour.  Put  the  oysters,  after  having 
removed  the  beards,  with  some  of  the  liquor  in  a  saute - 
pan ;  sprinkle  with  lemon  juice,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  a 
dust  of  cayenne ;  toss  over  the  fire  till  hot,  but  do  not 


SAVOURIES    AND    BREAKFAST    DISHES.  647 

let  them  boil.  Mix  the  anchovy  paste  with  the  remain- 
ing cheese,  spread  one  side  of  the  baked  biscuits.  Heat 
up  the  rounds  of  tongue  in  a  httle  butter  and  place  one 
on  top  of  the  paste,  or  place  the  tongue  on  the  biscuit 
and  spread  a  layer  of  the  paste  on  the  tongue.  Put 
an  oyster  in  the  centre  of  each  ;  bake  a  few  minutes ; 
dish  up,  garnish  with  parsley,  and  serve. 

693.  Huitres  en  Petites  Caisses  a  la  Diable. — 24 
small  oysters,  1  glass  Chablis,  f  oz.  butter,  |  pint 
Veloute  sauce,  J  oz.  lobster  butter,  1  yolk  of  egg,  |  oz. 
Parmesan  cheese  (grated),  |  oz.  soft  breadcrumbs,  a 
pinch  of  white  pepper,  curry  powder,  and  cayenne,  8 
small  paper  souffle  cases. 

Blanch  the  oysters  and  beard  them  ;  put  them  in  a 
saute-pan  with  the  wine  and  fresh  butter  ;  season  with 
pepper,  curry,  and  cayenne  ;  shake  the  pan  over  the  fire 
for  a  few  minutes,  then  add  the  sauce  and  the  egg-yolk» 
Let  it  get  hot  so  as  to  bind  the  sauce  ;  then  mix  in  the 
lobster  butter,  put  three  oysters  with  a  sufficient  quantity 
of  sauce  in  each  souffle  case,  sprinkle  over  with  a  mix- 
ture of  breadcrumbs  and  cheese  ;  place  on  a  baking- 
sheet  and  bake  in  a  brisk  oven  for  five  minutes.  Dish 
up  on  a  folded  napkin,  and  send  to  table  very  hot. 

694.  Croquettes  aux  Huitres. — 2  doz.  large  sauce 
oysters,  ^  lb.  fresh  breadcrumbs,  2  oz.  butter,  2  oz. 
cooked  fish,  2  tablespoonfuls  bechamel  sauce,  |  lemon> 
2  yolks  of  eggs  and  1  whole,  mignonette  pepper  and 
cayenne,  clarified  fat,  panurette  or  breadcrumbs^ 
parsley. 

Beard  the  oysters,  drain  them  on  a  cloth,  mince 
coarsely,  and  put  in  a  basin  with  the  breadcrumbs^ 
butter,  the  two  yolks  of  eggs,  and  the  sauce  ;  mix  well 
and  season  with  a  little  mignonette  pepper  and  a  dust 
of  cayenne.  Add  the  fish  chopped  finely,  a  few  drops- 
of  lemon  juice,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  finely-chopped 
lemon  rind.  Stir  over  a  slow  fire  to  get  warm  through,. 
then  spread  on  a  dish  and  put  to  cool.  Shape  the  mix- 
ture into  small  corks  ;  brush  over  with  beaten  egg,  dip 
in  panurette  or  breadcrumbs,  and  fry  in  hot  clarified 


648  RECHEKCHE    COOKERY. 

butter  a  golden  colour.      Drain  on  a  cloth  ;  dish  up, 
garnish  with  fried  parsley,  and  serve  hot. 

695.  Boiines  Bouches  aux  Huitres. — Stamp  out  some 
shces  of  bread  with  a  circular  cutter,  fry  in  butter  to 
a  light  brown  colour,  and  drain  them.  Take  twelve 
large  oysters  from  the  shells,  drain  and  trim  them, 
wrap  up  each  lightly  in  a  thin  piece  of  bacon,  fasten 
with  a  small  skewer.  Roast  them  in  front  of  a  clear 
fire,  or  broil  them  in  a  saute-pan  over  the  fire  ;  when 
done  on  both  sides,  remove  the  skewers,  and  place  one 
oyster  with  the  bacon  neatly  trimmed  on  each  of  the 
croutons ;  range  them  on  a  folded  napkin,  garnish  with 
parsley,  and  serve  quickly. 

696.  Bouchees  au  Caviar. — Prepare  six  very  small 
puff-paste  patty  cases  [boucJiees).  They  must  be  very 
small.  Eemove  the  lid,  scoop  out  carefully  the  centre 
portion,  and  keep  hot.  Peel  and  chop  a  shallot  very 
finely  and  put  it  in  a  saucepan  with  half  an  ounce  of 
butter,  stir  over  the  fire  long  enough  to  slightly  warm 
the  shallot,  put  in  the  contents  of  a  small  pot  of 
Hygienic  Caviar,  stir  gently  with  a  wooden  spoon,  add 
two  tablespoonfuls  of  tomato  sauce  (well  reduced)  and 
a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice,  let  it  get  thoroughly  hot. 
Fill  up  the  cases  with  this,  place  them  on  a  dish,  put 
on  the  little  lids,  garnish  with  little  heaps  of  fried 
parsley,  and  serve  hot. 

697.  Caviar  a  I'Andalouse. — Select  eight  even-sized 
small  onions,  peel  them  and  cook  for  ten  minutes  in 
salted  water,  drain  them,  and  when  cool  cut  or  scoop 
out  the  centre  portion  of  each.  Fill  the  openings  with 
a  mixture  of  Hygienic  or  Astrachan  Caviar  mixed  with 
a  yolk  of  egg,  a  tablespoonful  of  soft  breadcrumbs,  a 
small  piece  of  butter,  and  a  pinch  of  black  pepper. 
Put  the  stuffed  onions  on  a  buttered  baking  tin  or  pan, 
and  bake  for  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes  in  the  oven. 
Have  handy  eight  rounds  of  fried  bread  croutons,  spread 
with  anchovy  butter,  and  put  a  baked  onion  on  each. 
Range  them  neatly  on  a  dish,  and  garnish  wdth  fancifully 
cut  slices  of  lemon  and  parsley. 


SAVOUEIES    AND    BEEAKFAST    DISHES.  649 

698.  Croutes  de  Laitance  de  Cabillaud  a  la  Madras. 

— J  lb.  cod  roe  smoked,  ^  onion,  a  clove  of  garlic,.  2 
tablespoonfuls  tamarind  pulp,  1  table  spoonful  Favourite 
chutney,  1  teaspoonful  curry  powder,  1^  oz.  butter, 
1  hard-boiled  egg,  1  French  gherkin,  8  oval-shaped 
pieces  of  fried  bread. 

Cut  the  cod  roe  into  eight  slices,  chop  the  onion  and 
garlic  very  finely  and  fry  in  the  butter  ;  stir  in  the  curry 
powder,  fry  a  little  and  add  the  tamarind  pulp,  chutney, 
and  lemon  juice  ;  stir  until  it  boils,  then  lay  in  the 
slices  of  cod  roe  and  let  them  get  hot  through.  Chop 
the  gherkin,  cut  a  few  fanciful  slices  of  the  white  of 
egg,  chop  the  remainder,  also  the  yolk.  Dress  each 
slice  of  cod  roe  with  a  sufficient  quantity  of  pulp  on  the 
fried  pieces  of  bread;  decorate  with  the  gherkins,  white 
of  egg,  and  yolk  of  egg,  so  as  to  produce  a  neat  design ; 
dish  up,  place  in  the  oven  for  a  few  minutes,  or  serve 
cold. 

699.  Petites  Tartelettes,  Cracovienne. — ^  lb.  puff- 
paste,  1  dozen  oysters,  1  oz.  butter,  ^  oz.  flour,  2  oz. 
cooked  whiting  or  other  white  fish,  ^  gill  cream,  oyster 
liquor,  hard-boiled  egg,  seasoning,  1  dessert- spoonful 
meat  glaze. 

Eoll  out  the  puff-paste  about  a  quarter  of  an  inch 
thick  ;  cut  out  some  rounds  for  six  or  eight  flat  tartlet 
moulds,  fill  these  with  raw  rice,  bake  a  nice  colour  ;  and 
take  out  the  rice  and  put  the  crusts  on  a  sieve.  Chop 
the  white  of  the  hard-boiled  egg  and  the  flesh  of  the 
whiting  finely.  Warm  up  the  oysters  in  their  liquor, 
beard  them,  put  six  or  eight  of  the  nicest  on  one  side, 
and  cut  the  remaining  ones  into  small  slices.  Melt  the 
butter  in  a  stewpan ;  stir  in  the  flour  and  cook  without 
browning  ;  then  add  the  oyster  liquor  and  cream,  stir 
well,  put  in  the  minced  fish,  white  of  egg,  and  oysters  ; 
season  with  pepper  and  salt.  Fill  the  tartlets  with  this 
mixture.  Glaze  the  oysters  put  aside,  with  liquid  meat- 
glaze  ;  put  one  on  top  of  each  tartlet.  Rub  the  yolk  of 
egg  through  a  sieve  and  decorate  round  the  oysters. 
Bake  for  ten  minutes,  dish  up,  and  serve. 


650  RECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

700.  Canapes  de  Sardines  a  la  Soubise. — 10  sardines, 
^  oz.  of  butter,  3  button  onions,  1  dessert-spoonful  of 
white  wine,  1  gill  of  bechamel  sauce,  1  oz.  grated 
Parmesan,  1  oz.  anchovy  butter,  four  slices  toasted 
bread,  fresh  breadcrumbs,  seasoning. 

Scrape  the  sardines  lightly  ;  trim  off  tails  ;  peel  and 
chop  the  onions  finely,  i^ut  them  in  a  saucepan  with 
sufficient  water  to  cover  ;  boil  up  quickly  ;  strain  off  the 
water  ;  add  the  butter  ;  and  cook  for  ten  minutes.  Add 
the  sauce,  wine,  and  grated  cheese.  Let  it  reduce  a 
little.  Cut  the  toast  into  shapes  a  little  larger  than 
the  sardines  ;  spread  over  one  side  with  the  anchovy 
butter  ;  place  a  sardine  on  top  of  each  ;  spread  thickly 
with  the  above  preparation,  which  must  be  reduced  to 
the  desired  consistency ;  season  with  a  little  white 
pepper  and  a  pinch  of  cayenne.  Sprinkle  over  with  a 
few  freshly-made  breadcrumbs  ;  set  in  a  hot  oven  long 
enough  to  warm  through  ;  dish  up  on  a  folded  napkin, 
garnish  with  parsley,  and  serve. 

701.  Petites  Gondoles  a  I'Anchois. — J  lb.  flour, 
2 J  oz.  butter,  1  tablespoonful  anchovy  essence,  3  eggs, 
a  few  drops  carmine,  cayenne  pepper,  ^  oz.  cornflour, 
J  gill  of  cream,  ^  gill  of  milk,  3  Gorgona  ancho\ies 
filleted,  breadcrumbs. 

Rub  the  flour  and  1^  oz.  of  butter  until  quite  fine ; 
add  a  dessert-spoonful  of  anchovy  essence,  a  few  drops 
of  carmine  or  cochineal,  a  pinch  of  cayenne,  and  an  egg 
well  beaten,  and  work  into  a  stift'  paste  ;  a  little  water 
may  be  added  if  necessary.  Roll  out  the  paste  very 
thinly,  and  line  some  buttered  boat- shaped  moulds  with 
the  paste  ;  trim  the  edges,  prick  with  a  fork,  and  fill 
three-parts  full  with  a  mixture  prepared  as  follows  :  Put 
the  cornflour  in  a  stewpan,  add  the  milk,  and  stir  over 
the  fire  until  it  boils  ;  then  add  two  yolks  of  eggs.  Let 
it  cool  a  little,  whip  one  white  of  egg  to  a  stiff  froth,  and 
whip  the  cream.  Mix  a  teaspoonful  of  anchovy  essence, 
a  pinch  of  cayenne,  and  the  anchovy  fillets  finely  chopped 
with  the  cornflour,  t'cc. ;  stir  in  lightly  the  cream  and 
white  of  egg,  and  fill  the  moulds  as  directed.     Sprinkle 


SAVOURIES    AND    BREA.KFAST    DISHES.  651 

over  with  a  few  fresh  breadcrumbs,  and  bake  in  a 
moderately  heated  oven  for  about  fifteen  minutes.  Serve 
on  a  hot  dish  with  a  folded  napkin  or  dish-paper. 

702.  Petits  Pains  de  Crevettes.  —  h  pint  picked 
shrimps,  1  gill  cream,  1  gill  brown  stock,  2  eggs, 
1  dessert-spoonful  chutney,  3  Spanish  olives,  2  French 
gherkins,  cayenne,  and  salt. 

Put  shrimps,  chutney,  gherkins,  and  olives  (stoned) 
in  a  mortar,  and  pound  until  very  fine  ;  then  add  the 
stock.  Beat  up  the  cream  until  stift\  Rub  shrimps, 
&c.,  through  a  fine  sieve,  mix  with  the  cream,  season 
with  a  pinch  of  cayenne  and  salt.  Have  ready  6  or  8 
very  small  timbale  or  dariole-shaped  moulds,  butter 
these  well,  dust  with  breadcrumbs  (panurette  is  best  to 
use  for  this  purpose),  and  fill  with  the  puree.  Put  the 
moulds  in  a  saute-pan  three-parts  filled  with  boiling 
water,  cover  with  buttered  paper,  steam  for  about  twenty 
minutes ;  then  turn  out  and  serve  with  sauce  Ruisseau, 
No.  206. 

703.  Ancliois  a  la  Vatel. — 10  or  12  Gorgona  ancho- 
vies, ^  lb.  chicken  forcemeat,  a  teaspoonful  of  finely 
chopped  fine  herbs  (parsley,  tarragon,  and  chervil— 
of  the  latter  two  only  a  very  small  quantity),  about  ^  a 
teaspoonful  of  chopped  shallot,  ^  oz.  of  butter,  6  small 
preserved  mushrooms,  a  glass  of  white  wine,  a  table- 
spoonful  of  brown  breadcrumbs,  10  or  12  fingers  of 
toasted  bread,  |  oz.  of  grated  cheese. 

Wipe  the  anchovies  carefully  with  a  cloth,  open  the 
middle  of  each  without  dividing  them  entirely  in  halves  ; 
trim  off  the  head  and  tail  portions,  remove  the  back- 
bone. Mix  the  forcemeat  with  the  chopped  herbs  and 
shallot,  and  fill  the  inside  of  the  anchovies  with  this ; 
press  the  fish  together  and  put  into  shape.  Butter  a 
round  silver  or  fireproof  china  dish,  put  each  fish  on  a 
finger  of  toasted  bread,  and  arrange  them  neatly  on  the 
dish  so  as  to  form  a  pleasing  pattern.  Chop  the  mush- 
rooms very  finely,  sprinkle  over  the  fish  ;  put  the  grated 
cheese  and  breadcrumbs  in  a  similar  way  over  the 
surface,  place  the  remaining  butter  in  little  bits  here 


652  RECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

and  there  ;  wipe  tlie  edges  of  the  dish,  bake  in  a  mode- 
rately heated  oven  from  ten  to  fifteen  minutes,  garnish 
with  parsley,  and  serve  at  once. 

704.  Eclaires  d'Anchois. — Scrape,  wipe,  and  bone 
one  dozen  Gorgona  anchovies,  roll  out  some  short  paste 
or  remnants  of  puff-paste  rather  thin,  enclose  each 
anchovy  neatly  in  the  paste ;  place  them  on  a  baking- 
sheet,  brush  over  wdth  beaten  egg-yolk,  mark  slightly 
with  a  knife,  sprinkle  some  grated  Parmesan  cheese  and 
a  pinch  of  cayenne  over  each  ;  bake  them  in  a  quick 
oven  for  ten  minutes.  Dish  up  on  a  folded  napkin ; 
garnish  with  parsley,  and  serve  quickly. 

705.  Failles  au  Parmesan  a  la  Yarmouth. — Have 
ready  about  half  a  pound  of  short  paste  or  remnant  of 
puff- paste.  Roll  it  out  rather  thickly,  sprinkle  with 
grated  Parmesan  cheese,  cayenne  pepper,  and  a  very 
little  ground  mace ;  fold  together  both  ends  towards  the 
centre,  roll  out  again,  and  sprinkle  as  before  ;  fold  again, 
and  roll  out  rather  thinly  this  time.  Cut  it  into  fingers 
about  four  inches  long  and  a  quarter  of  an  inch  wide. 
Cut  some  very  narrow  strips  of  kippered  herring  fillets, 
exactly  the  same  size  as  the  paste,  place  one  of  each 
together  and  twist  them  so  as  to  give  them  the  appear- 
ance of  a  screw  ;  close  the  ends  with  your  thumb  and 
forefinger,  and  bake  them  for  a  few  mmutes  in  a  quick 
oven.  These  should  be  dished  up  in  transverse  rows, 
and  be  served  as  hot  as  possible. 

706.  Petits  Souffles  au  Thon. — 3  oz.  preserved  tunny- 
fish,  6  boned  anchovies,  1  hard-boiled  egg,  3  boned 
sardines,  2|  oz.  grated  cheese,  3  tablespoonfuls  cream, 
1^  oz.  butter,  4  tablespoonfuls  reduced  bechamel,  |  oz. 
jpanurette  or  breadcrumbs,  pepper  and  cayenne,  1  white 
of  egg,  8  china  or  paper  souffle  cases. 

Pound  in  a  mortar  the  tunny-fish,  anchovies,  and 
sardines,  add  an  ounce  of  grated  cheese,  one  tablespoon- 
ful  of  cream,  two  tablespoonfuls  of  well-reduced 
bechamel  sauce,  hard-boiled  egg,  and  the  butter ;  work 
well  till  smooth,  season  with  a  little  pepper  and  a  pinch 
of  cayenne.     Rub  through  a  wire   sieve,  and  fill  the 


SAVOUEIES    AND    BREAKFAST    DISHES.  653 

souffle  cases  previously  buttered  three-parts  full.  Put 
them  on  a  bakmg-tm,  and  bake  m  a  quick  oven  for 
ten  minutes.  In  the  meantime  put  1^  oz.  grated  cheese, 
the  remainder  of  the  cream  and  bechamel  sauce, 
panurette  or  breadcrumbs,  and  white  of  egg  well  beaten 
in  a  small  stewpan  ;  add  a  pinch  of  cayenne,  and  stir 
over  the  fire  for  a  few  minutes,  so  as  to  get  it  thoroughly 
hot ;  put  a  tablespoonful  of  this  into  each  of  the  partly- 
baked  souffles,  return  to  the  oven  for  another  five 
minutes  to  brown  the  surface,  dish  up,  and  serve  very 
hot. 

707.  Tartines  de  Homard  a  la  St.  Martin. — 2  oz. 
lobster  puree  or  lobster  batter,  1^  oz.  fresh  butter,  3  yolks 
of  eggs,  i  glass  of  old  port,  salt,  cayenne,  slices  of  toasted 
bread. 

Melt  the  butter  in  a  small  stewpan,  add  the  yolks  of 
eggs,  and  stir  over  the  fire  for  a  few  seconds  ;  leave  long 
enough  to  heat  through  without  boiling.  Remove  and 
add  the  lobster  puree  or  butter,  also  the  port  wine  ;  stir 
well,  season  with  salt  and  cayenne.  Cut  some  fingers 
of  freshly-toasted  bread,  put  a  thick  layer  of  the  prepara- 
tion on  each,  put  the  fingers  on  a  baking- sheet,  bake  for 
two  minutes  in  a  hot  oven.   Dish  up,  and  serve  very  hot. 

708.  Croutes  a  la  Hongroise. — 2  oz.  preserved  lax, 
3  hard-boiled  eggs,  1  oz.  grated  Gruyere  cheese,  1^  oz. 
fresh  butter,  2  gherkins,  toasted  bread,  parsley,  paprika 
pepper. 

Wipe  the  slices  of  lax,  peel  the  eggs,  and  cut  nine 
round  slices  about  J  inch  thick ;  carefully  remove  the 
yolks,  put  in  a  mortar,  and  pound  with  the  lax  until 
smooth  ;  add  the  cheese  and  an  ounce  of  butter,  season 
with  a  good  pinch  of  paprika  pepper,  and  rub  through 
a  fine  sieve.  Stamp  out  some  rounds  of  freshly-made 
toast,  a  little  larger  than  the  slices  of  egg,  butter  one 
side  of  each  round,  and  spread  a  layer  of  the  above 
preparation  on  the  buttered  side  of  the  toasts.  Place 
&  slice  of  white  of  egg  in  the  centre  of  each  round  of 
toast,  put  the  remainder  of  the  puree  in  a  forcing-bag 
with  a  rose  tube,  fill  up  the  centre  of  the  rounds  with 


654  KECHERCHE   COOKERY. 

this,  decorate  the  sides  and  top  with  the  same.  Garnish 
tastefully  with  small  leaves  of  gherkins  and  sprigs  of 
parsley,  dish  up,  and  serve. 

709.  Friandines  a  la  Westphalienne. — About  J  lb. 
puff-paste,  1  oz.  anchovy  paste,  6  thin  slices  of  raw  West- 
phahan  ham,  6  oz.  cooked  veal  or  rabbit,  2  hard-boiled 
yolks  of  eggs,  ^  gill  bechamel  sauce,  J  gill  cream,  |  oz. 
butter,  the  breast  of  a  cooked  pheasant  or  fowl,  2  small 
gherkins,  2  tablespoonfuls  mayonnaise,  3  slices  pickled 
beetroot,  seasoning. 

Roll  out  the  paste  about  ^  of  an  inch  in  thickness, 
cut  into  strips  about  two  inches  wide,  spread  half  the 
strips  with  anchovy  paste,  and  cover  with  the  other  half. 
Stamp  out  eight  rounds  two  inches  in  diameter,  also  the 
same  number  of  rings,  but  somewhat  smaller  than  the 
rounds.  Place  these  on  a  baking- sheet  and  bake  in  a 
quick  oven  for  ten  minutes,  and  let  cool.  Pound  the 
cooked  veal  or  rabbit  in  a  mortar  till  smooth,  add  the 
hard-boiled  yolks  of  eggs,  the  cream,  sauce,  and  butter  ; 
season  with  pepper,  salt,  and  a  pinch  of  cayenne  or 
Nepaul  pepper,  work  well  so  as  to  mix  the  ingredients 
thoroughly,  and  rub  through  a  wire  sieve.  Spread  the 
large  rounds  with  this  puree,  place  the  rings  on  top,  put 
some  of  the  puree  in  a  cornet,  cut  the  point,  and  shape 
a  circle  on  top  of  the  rings  with  the  puree ;  cut  the  slices 
of  ham  conveniently  so  as  to  form  each  into  a  roll,  place 
on  the  puree  (upright),  fill  the  centre  with  a  ragout  of 
pheasant  or  chicken,  beetroot  and  gherkins,  all  cut  into 
small  dice,  and  seasoned  with  ^mayonnaise  sauce. 
Ornament  the  top  and  sides  with  the  remainder  of  the 
puree  by  means  of  a  paper  cornet  or  forcing-bag  with  a 
fancy  tube,  dish  up  on  a  folded  napkin  or  dish-paper, 
and  serve. 

710.  Croquettes  de  Jambon  au  Riz. — 1  lb.  cooked 
ham,  I  lb.  cooked  rice,  1  oz.  butter,  2  yolks  of  eggs, 
1  shallot,  J  gill  cream,  i  gill  Veloute  sauce,  1  whole 
egg,  breadcrumbs,  clarified  fat  or  lard,  parsley,  pepper, 
and  a  pinch  of  powdered  sage. 

Chop  finely  the  ham  and  rice  separately.     Melt  the 


SAVOURIES    AND    BREAKFAST    DISHES.  655 

l)utter  in  a  saute-pan,  put  in  the  shallot,  finely  chopped, 
and  fry  a  little ;  add  the  ham  and  rice,  season  with 
pepper  and  powdered  sage,  stir  over  the  fire  until 
thoroughly  hot,  and  add  the  sauce  and  cream.  When 
on  the  point  of  boiling,  stir  in  the  egg-yolks ;  when  the 
mixture  begins  to  thicken,  remove  from  the  fire,  and 
spread  on  a  dish  to  cool.  Shape  into  even-sized  balls, 
corks,  or  cutlets ;  dip  in  beaten  egg  and  breadcrumbs, 
fry  in  hot  fat  or  lard,  drain,  dish  up,  and  garnish  with 
fried  parsley.  The  rice  may  be  substituted  with  mashed 
potatoes,  but  less  ham  and  more  potatoes  should  be  used 
than  the  above  quantities. 

711.  Zephires  a  la  Parmentler. — IJ  lb.  potato 
puree,  4  eggs.  If  oz.  butter,  i  oz.  potato  flour,  1  oz. 
panurette  or  breadcrumbs,  1  oz.  Gruyere  or  Parmesan, 
grated,  2  oz.  lean  cooked  ham,  1  oz.  cooked  game  or 
poultry,  2  preserved  mushrooms,  f  teaspoonful  mixed 
mustard,  2  tablespoonfuls  Espagnole  or  brown  sauce, 
pepper,  and  grated  nutmeg. 

Put  the  mashed  potatoes  with  an  ounce  of  butter  in 
a  stewpan,  stir  until  hot,  season  with  a  little  pepper 
and  salt,  bind  with  2  yolks  of  eggs,  and  put  on  a  dish  to 
cool.  Chop  up  the  ham,  game  or  poultry,  and  mush- 
rooms, and  pound  in  a  mortar  till  smooth ;  add  2  yolks 
of  eggs,  the  mustard,  the  sauce,  and  the  grated  cheese, 
season  with  pepper  and  a  pinch  of  nutmeg,  and  mix 
well.  Butter  some  oval- shaped  plain  or  fancy  dariole 
moulds,  sprinkle  well  with  panurette  or  breadcrumbs, 
fill  up  with  the  prepared  potato  puree,  and  bake  in  the 
oven  a  nice  golden  colour.  Scoop  out  the  interiors,  and 
fill  up  with  the  pounded  preparation.  Beat  up  the 
whites  of  two  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  adding  a  pinch  of 
salt,  cover  the  surface  of  each  roughly  with  a  little  of 
the  stiff  whites  of  eggs,  and  return  again  into  a  quick 
oven,  so  as  to  colour  the  surface.  Unmould  carefully, 
dish  up  on  a  folded  napkin  or  dish-paper,  and  serve 
very  hot. 

712.  Tartelettes  a  la  Polenta. —^  lb.  short-crust 
paste,  2  oz.  polenta  or  coarse-grain  florador,  f  gill  milk, 


656  '  RECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

2  oz.  grated  Parmesan,  2  yolks  of  eggs,  1  oz.  butter, 
2  oz.  cooked  pheasant  or  chicken  meat,  2  oz.  cooked 
ox-tongue,  3  preserved  mushrooms,  1  tablespoonful 
bechamel  sauce,  salt,  pepper,  and  cayenne. 

Roll  out  the  paste  very  thin,  stamp  out  some  rounds 
with  a  fluted  cutter,  large  enough  to  line  8  to  9  tartlet- 
moulds.  Prick  the  paste  with  a  fork  when  lined.  Put 
the  milk  and  |  gill  of  water  in  a  stewpan,  add  the  butter 
and  a  pinch  of  salt ;  when  boiling,  stir  in  the  polenta 
or  florador.  Cook  over  the  fire ;  whilst  stirring  for  ten 
minutes,  add  the  Parmesan,  remove  from  the  fire,  and 
work  in  the  yolks  of  eggs.  Season  with  pepper,  salt, 
and  cayenne  to  taste,  and  let  cool.  Chop  the  chicken, 
tongue,  and  mushrooms  finely,  mix  with  the  sauce,  and 
season  with  pepper.  This  forms  a  salpicon.  Half  fill 
the  lined  tarlet-moulds  with  polenta  mixture,  put  a 
dessert- spoonful  of  the  salpicon  in  the  centre  of  each, 
and  fill  up  with  polenta  mixture.  Smooth  over  with  a 
knife,  brush  over  with  oiled  butter,  sprinkle  the  surface 
well  with  grated  cheese.  Bake  in  a  moderately  heated 
oven  from  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes,  unmould,  and  dish 
up  on  a  hot  dish. 

713.  Flans  de  Crepes  aux  Epinards. — J  lb.  cooked 
spinach,  2  yolks  of  eggs,  1  tablespoonful  cream,  1  white 
of  egg,  breadcrumbs,  |  pint  pancake-batter,  No.  627, 
2  oz.  butter,  10  small  rashers  bacon,  salt,  pepper,  nut- 
meg, pinch  of  sugar. 

Put  the  spinach  through  a  sieve.  Heat  up  in  a 
stewpan  with  the  cream,  and  a  little  stock  or  gravy ; 
when  hot,  stir  in  the  yolks  of  eggs,  season  to  taste  with 
pepper,  salt,  a  pinch  of  nutmeg,  and  a  pinch  of  sugar. 
Take  off  the  fire  and  let  cool.  Prepare  a  number  of 
thin  pancakes  (fried  in  butter).  Spread  some  of  the 
prepared  spinach  on  one  side  of  each  pancake,  placing 
them  together  in  twos ;  stamp  out  some  rounds  by 
means  of  a  plain  2-inch  cutter,  dip  in  beaten  white  of 
egg,  and  crumb.  Fry  in  hot  fat  a  golden  colour,  drain, 
dish  up  in  a  row,  place  the  rashers  of  bacon,  nicely 
fried  crisp,  on  each  side,  garnish  with  a  few  sprigs  of 


SAVOURIES    AND    BREAKFAST    DISHES.  657 

fried   parsley,   and   serve   with   a   boat   of  tomato  or 
piquante  sauce. 

714.  Rissolettes  a  la  Solferino. — J  pint  pancake 
batter,  1  oz.  butter,  4  oz.  foie-gras  (potted),  4  mush- 
rooms (preserved),  2  oz.  cooked  sweetbread,  1  gill 
Veloute  or  bechamel  sauce,  1  egg,  seasoning,  bread- 
crumbs, frying  fat,  and  about  2  oz.  chicken  forcemeat. 

Fry  some  very  thm  pancakes,  stamp  out  some 
rounds  about  two  inches  in  diameter.  Prepare  a 
salpicon  as  follows  :  cut  the  foie-gras  (with  truffles), 
mushrooms,  and  sweetbread  into  very  small  dice,  put 
this  in  a  saute-pan  with  the  sauce  ;  when  thoroughly 
hot,  add  the  yolk  of  an  egg  ;  season  with  salt,  pepper, 
and  a  pinch  of  grated  nutmeg.  Put  it  on  a  plate  and 
let  cool.  Then  shape  into  little  balls,  place  these  in  the 
centre  of  the  rounds  of  pancake.  Put  a  little  raw 
chicken  forcemeat  round  the  edge  of  each,  and  fold 
over  the  same  as  rissoles.  Brush  over  with  egg,  dip 
in  breadcrumbs,  and  fry  a  golden  colour.  Dish  up  on 
a  folded  napkin,  and  serve  hot. 

715.  Jambon  a  laNeige. — 5  oz.  of  lean  ham,  4  eggs, 
J  gill  milk  or  cream,  |  teaspoonful  powdered  sweet 
herbs,  ^  oz.  butter,  a  pinch  of  aromatic  spice,  and  a 
pinch  of  dry  mustard. 

Chop  the  ham  very  fine,  mix  it  with  the  savoury 
herbs,  spice,  and  mustard,  beat  up  two  whole  eggs  and 
two  yolks  of  eggs.  When  well  beaten,  add  the  milk  or 
cream  and  all  but  a  dessert-spoonful  of  chopped  ham, 
melt  the  butter,  grease  a  deep  round  plated  dish  with 
same,  and  put  the  remainder  with  the  mixture.  Sprinkle 
the  buttered  part  of  the  dish  with  a  few  brown  bread- 
crumbs ;  put  the  mixture  in  the  dish,  and  place  in  a 
moderate  oven  for  ten  minutes  (leave  long  enough  to  set). 
Beat  up  the  two  remaining  whites  of  eggs  to  a  stiff 
froth,  mix  in  a  dessert-spoonful  of  chopped  ham,  pile  it 
on  the  dish,  cover  it  over,  and  bake  for  another  five 
minutes. 

716.  Beignets  de  Cervelles. — Thoroughly  wash 
some  calf's  or  pig's  brains,  removing  the  blood  and  skin. 


658  KECHEPtCHE    COOKERY. 

Put  them  in  a  stewpan  with  sufficient  water  to  cover, 
a  dessert- spoonful  of  French  vinegar,  a  few  pepper- 
corns, f  an  onion,  and  a  bouquet  garni,  No.  3.  Boil 
for  five  minutes,  then  take  out  the  brains,  place  in  cold 
water,  and  drain.  Cut  them  into  neat  pieces,  put  in  a 
plate,  season  with  pepper,  salt,  one  tablespoonful  of 
oil,  and  a  few  drops  of  chilli  vinegar.  Sprinkle  over  a 
dessert- spoonful  of  chopped  parsley.  Have  ready  some 
frying  batter,  dip  each  piece  into  this,  and  drop  into 
hot  fat ;  fry  a  golden  colour,  drain,  dish  up  on  a  folded 
napkin,  garnish  with  parsley,  and  serve  with  piquante 
sance.  No.  190. 

717.  Kish  au  Parmesan  a  la  Pouard.— Beat  up  8 
yolks  of  eggs,  add  1^  gill  of  milk  or  cream,  1|  oz.  of 
grated  Parmesan  cheese,  a  good  pinch  of  cayenne  pepper, 
and  a  tiny  pinch  of  salt.  Pour  the  mixture  into  small 
silver  or  china  souffle  cases,  bake  in  a  moderate  oven, 
and  serve  very  hot. 

718.  Petits  Pains  aux  (Eufs. — Brioche  or  choux 
paste,  4  eggs,  IJ  oz.  grated  Parmesan  cheese,  2  table- 
spoonfuls  of  meat  glaze,  1  teaspoonful  of  chopped 
parsley,  1  oz.  of  butter,  1  tablespoonful  of  cream,  pepper 
and  salt. 

Butter  eight  oval  boat- shaped  moulds,  fill  three - 
parts  full  with  brioche  paste,  let  stand  in  a  warm  place 
for  about  an  hour,  and  bake  in  a  fairly  hot  oven  for 
about  half  an  hour.  Turn  out  of  the  moulds,  cut  carefully 
round  the  edge  of  the  surface,  and  remove  the  top. 
Scoop  out  the  soft  part  of  the  inside  ;  melt  the  meat 
glaze  and  mask  the  interior  of  cases  and  lids  with 
the  glaze,  and  place  them,  hollow  parts  downwards,  on  a 
sieve  to  strain.  Put  the  butter,  eggs,  cream,  and  grated 
cheese  in  a  stewpan,  beat  up  well,  and  stir  over  the  fire 
until  it  thickens  ;  then  add  the  parsley  and  seasoning. 
When  sufficiently  set,  fill  up  the  cases,  replace  the  lids, 
put  in  the  mouth  of  the  oven  for  a  few  seconds,  dish  up 
on  a  hot  dish,  brush  over  the  surface  with  meat  glaze, 
and  serve. 

719.  Omelette  a  la  Bonne-femme.— 6  eggs,   1   oz. 


SAVOURIES    AND    BREAKFAST    DISHES.  659 

bacon,  a  boiled  potato,  a  breakfast  roll,  1  teaspoonfiil 
chopped  parsley,  i  teaspoonful  chopped  chives,  salt  and 
pepper. 

Break  the  eggs  into  a  basin,  beat  up  for  five  minutes  ; 
add  the  parsley  and  chives,  also  a  pinch  of  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste.  Cut  the  bacon  into  small  squares, 
likewise  the  thin  crust  of  the  roll ;  melt  the  butter  in  a 
frying  or  omelet  pan,  fry  the  bacon  slightly  brown,  then 
add  the  bread-crust  and  the  potato  cut  in  squares,  toss 
over  the  fire  for  a  few  minutes,  pour  in  the  egg  mixture, 
stir  with  a  fork  gently  over  a  bright  fire  for  two  minutes. 
Then  fold  up  in  the  shape  of  a  cushion,  towards  the  side 
opposite  to  the  handle  of  thei)an,  hold  it  in  a  slanting 
position  for  a  minute  or  two  over  the  fire,  to  colour  it 
lightly  ;  take  a  hot  dish  in  your  left  hand,  holding  up  the 
pan  with  your  right,  bring  the  centre  of  the  dish  towards 
the  edge  of  the  pan  with  the  omelet,  and  then  turn  the 
pan  over  quickly,  so  that  the  omelet  will  come  right  in 
the  centre  of  the  dish.  Serve  hot  with  two  or  three 
tablespoonfuls  of  tomato  sauce  poured  round  the 
omelet. 

720.  Omelette  aux  Fines  Herbes  a  la  Francaise. — 
0  eggs,  2  tablespoonfuls  cream,  2  dessert- spoonfuls 
chopped  parsley,  including  a  leaf  or  two  of  green  tarra- 
gon and  a  sprig  of  chervil,  a  pinch  of  sweet  herbs,  1  oz. 
butter,  a  clove  of  garlic,  pepper  and  salt. 

Break  the  eggs  into  a  basin,  add  the  cream,  and  beat 
up  well ;  add  the  chopped  herbs  and  seasoning.  Cut  the 
clove  of  garlic  and  wipe  the  inside  of  the  omelet-pan 
with  the  cut  side.  Melt  the  butter  in  this  pan,  clarify, 
and  when  hot  pour  in  the  egg  mixture.  Stir  over  a 
brisk  fire  with  a  fork  until  the  eggs  begin  to  set,  then 
roll  towards  the  side  of  the  pan  opposite  the  handle,  and 
give  it  the  shape  of  an  oval  cushion.  Allow  it  to  take 
colour  (a  golden  brown).  Turn  out  on  an  oval  dish 
(hot),  and  serve.  Tarragon  and  sweet  herbs,  or  the 
flavour  of  garlic,  may  be  omitted.  A  small  chopped 
shallot  may  be  added  to  the  butter  and  fried  a  little,  if 
liked. 

42 


660  RECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

721.  Petites  Omelettes  a  la  Marechale.— 8  eggs,  8 
slices  of  cooked  smoked  ox-tongue,  a  dessert-spoonful 
of  chopped  parsley,  ^  gill  of  cream,  1^  oz.  butter,  salt, 
pepper,  Colbert  sauce,  No.  201. 

Break  the  eggs  into  a  basm,  add  parsley,  pepper, 
salt,  and  beat  up  well,  add  the  cream  and  mix  thoroughly. 
Divide  into  eight  equal  portions;  melt  a  little  of  the 
butter,  and  prepare  a  very  small  omelet  with  each  por- 
tion of  the  mixture  ;  place  it  on  the  slice  of  tongue, 
trimmed  to  required  size,  and  proceed  thus  until  the 
eight  omelets  are  made  ;  dish  up  on  a  hot  dish  in  the 
shape  of  a  border  {en  couronne),  pour  Colbert  sauce 
round  the  dish,  and  serve. 

722.  Omelettes  Gratinees  au  Parmesan. — 5  eggs, 
1  large  tablespoonful  cream,  2  tablespoonfuls  grated 
Parmesan,  1^  oz.  butter,  white  pepper,  a  few  brown 
crumbs,  tomato  sauce. 

Break  the  eggs  into  a  basin,  add  rather  more  than 
half  of  the  grated  cheese  and  a  pinch  of  pepper  (no 
salt),  mix  well  with  a  whisk,  add  the  cream,  and  beat 
well.  Melt  half  the  butter  in  an  omelet  pan,  pour  in 
half  the  egg-mixture.  Stir  over  a  brisk  fire  until  the 
eggs  begin  to  set  (it  requires  generally  three  minutes  to 
stir),  then  fold  into  a  cushion  shape,  let  it  rest  for  one 
minute  to  take  colour  ;  turn  on  to  a  hot  dish.  With 
the  other  half  of  the  mixture  and  butter  prepare  a 
second  omelet,  and  put  it  along  with  the  first.  Trim 
the  omelets  neatly,  sprinkle  over  with  a  few  bread- 
crumbs and  grated  Parmesan,  also  a  few  drops  of  oiled 
butter,  put  tlie  dish  in  a  sharp  oven  or  under  a 
hot  salamander  for  a  few  minutes,  and  serve  with 
nicely- seasoned  hot  tomato  sauce  poured  round  the 
omelets. 

723.  Fricassee  d'CEufs. — 6  eggs,  1^  oz.  of  butter, 
1  gill  cream,  ^  gill  bechamel  sauce,  a  small  shallot, 
pepper,  salt,  a  pinch  of  grated  nutmeg,  fried  bread 
croutons,  a  teaspoonful  of  chopped  parsley. 

Boil  the  eggs  for  fifteen  minutes,  lay  them  in  cold 
water,  take  off  the  shells,  cut  them  in  halves  crossways, 


SAVOURIES    AND    BREAKFAST    DISHES.  661 

take  out  the  yolks,  cut  the  whites  into  shces  and  pre- 
serve the  yolks  for  garnish.  Peel  the  shallot  and  chop 
finely.  Melt  the  butter  in  a  stewpan,  add  the  shallot, 
and  fry  a  golden  colour.  Add  the  sauce,  let  it  come  to 
a  boil,  mix  in  the  cream  ;  when  hot,  put  in  the  whites 
of  egg,  add  the  seasoning.  Stir  gently,  or  better,  shake 
the  pan  so  as  not  to  break  the  slices,  and  keep  on  the 
fire  until  hot.  Warm  up  the  yolks  in  a  little  thin 
white  sauce,  dress  them  in  the  centre  of  a  dish,  put 
the  whites  round  the  yolks  as  neatly  as  possible, 
sprinkle  over  with  some  chopped  parsley,  garnish  with 
a  few  croutons  of  fried  bread,  and  serve. 

724.  CEufs  a  la  Dreux. — 6  eggs,  ^  lb.  lean  ham 
(cooked),  1  dessert- spoonful  chopped  parsley,  ^  oz. 
butter,  ^  gill  cream,  salt  and  pepper,  cayenne,  six 
rounds  of  buttered  toast. 

Butter  thickly  six  deep  patty-pans ;  chop  the  ham 
finely  and  mix  with  the  parsley,  sprinkle  well  the  patty- 
pans with  this,  so  as  to  completely  cover  the  inside 
of  each  pan,  break  an  egg  carefully  into  each  pan, 
season  with  a  pinch  of  salt,  pepper,  and  cayenne,  and 
divide  the  cream  equally  on  top  of  each  egg ;  put  also 
a  tiny  piece  of  butter  in  each.  Put  the  tins  in  a 
saute-pan  three- parts  full  of  boiling  water,  place  in 
the  oven,  and  poach  until  the  whites  are  completely 
set.  Have  ready  some  rounds  of  buttered  toast  as  nearly 
as  possible  the  size  of  the  patty-pans,  turn  out  the 
pans  and  dress  them  carefully  on  the  toast,  dish  up,  and 
serve  very  hot. 

725.  ffiufs  a  la  Milanaise. — 6  eggs,  3  tablespoon- 
fuls  grated  Parmesan  cheese,  1  tablespoonful  cream, 
toasted  bread,  pepper,  about  ^  gill  tomato  sauce,  IJ  oz. 
butter. 

Break  the  eggs  into  a  basin,  beat  up  well  with  a 
tablespoonful  of  grated  Parmesan  cheese  and  the  cream, 
add  a  pinch  of  pepper.  Divide  this  into  four  equal  parts. 
Melt  a  little  butter  in  an  omelet  pan,  pour  in  one  part 
and  make  into  a  small  omelet,  taking  care  that  the 
omelet  is  of  a  nice  cushion  shape.     Proceed  thus  until 


G62  RECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

four  omelets  are  made.  Eoll  each  in  Parmesan  cheese, 
put  them  on  an  oval  shape  of  buttered  toast,  sprinkle 
the  surface  with  more  Parmesan,  put  them  on  a  baking- 
sheet,  and  place  in  a  hot  oven  for  two  minutes.  Dish 
up  on  a  hot  dish,  pour  round  with  hot  tomato  sauce,  and 
serve. 

726.  CEuf-^^  Brouilles  aux  Pointes  d'Asperg-es. — 5  eggs, 
1  gill  asimragus  tips,  2  oz.  butter,  1  tablespoonful  cream, 
salt,  pepper,  and  nutmeg. 

Boil  the  asparagus  tips  in  salted  water  until  tender, 
drain  well,  i^ut  them  in  a  saute-pan  with  an  ounce  of 
melted  butter,  and  saute  over  the  fire  for  five  minutes. 
Break  the  eggs  in  a  basin,  add  the  cream,  season  witli 
a  little  salt,  a  pinch  of  pepper,  and  a  grate  of  nutmeg, 
beat  up  well,  put  it  in  a  stewpan  with  the  remaining 
ounce  of  butter,  stir  over  the  fire  for  a  little  while,  then 
add  the  asparagus,  stir  again  until  the  eggs  begin  to 
set.  Dish  up  on  a  hot  dish,  garnish  with  parsley,  and 
serve. 

Slices  of  cucumber  in  place  of  asparagus  points  will 
be  found  a  nice  change.  A  pinch  of  castor  sugar  should 
be  added  when  sauteing  the  cucumber. 

727.  (Eufs  a  la  Boston.— 6  eggs,  1^  oz.  butter,  |  large 
onion,  1  teaspoonful  flour,  1  gill  milk  or  cream,  2  oz. 
chopped  cooked  ham,  salt,  pepper,  and  nutmeg,  -^  gill 
Madere  sauce. 

Peel  and  slice  the  onion  and  fry  it  in  an  ounce  of  butter 
to  a  golden  colour,  sprinkle  in  the  flour,  stir  long  enough 
to  cook  the  flour,  moisten  with  the  milk  or  cream,  season 
with  a  pinch  of  salt  and  half  a  pinch  of  each  pepper  and 
nutmeg.  Separate  the  yolks  from  the  whites  of  eggs 
and  put  the  yolks  with  the  onions,  &c.,  stir  well  and  add 
1  oz.  of  chopped  ham.  Beat  the  whites  of  eggs  to  a  stiff 
froth  and  mix  carefully  with  the  above.  Butter  a  round 
baking-tin  or  gratin-dish,  dress  the  mixture  neatly  on  it, 
sprinkle  the  top  with  chopped  ham,  bake  in  a  hot  oven 
for  fifteen  minutes;  when  done,  turn  out  onto  a  hot  dish 
and  serve  with  Madere  sauce. 

728.  Scrambled  Es^gs. — 6  eggs,  |  gill  cream,  |  oz. 


SAVOURIES    AND    BREAKFAST    DISHES.  663 

butter,    salt    aDcl    pepper     to     taste,     toasted    bread 
(buttered). 

Break  the  eggs  into  a  basin,  add  pepper  and  salt,  beat 
with  a  fork  until  the  yolks  and  whites  are  thoroughly 
mixed.  Put  it  in  a  stewpan  with  the  butter  and  cream, 
siir  over  a  brisk  fire  until  the  mixture  begins  to  set. 
Have  ready  a  square  piece  of  toasted  bread  well  buttered, 
cut  it  into  quarters,  and  put  neatly  on  a  hot  dish ; 
turn  the  egg  mixture  on  to  this,  garnish  with  a  few  sprigs 
of  fresh  parsley,  and  serve.  Or,  instead  of  dressing 
the  eggs  on  toast,  put  the  mixture,  heaped  up,  in  the 
centre  of  a  dish,  and  garnish  with  sippets  of  toasted 
bread. 

729.  (Eufs   brouilles  aux  Anchois. — 6  eggs,  1  tea- 
spoonful  anchovy  essence,  14  oz.  butter,  2  tablespoon- 
fuls  cream,  6  Gorgona  anchovies,  a  pinch  of  cayenne 
pepper  and  salt,  toasted   slices  of  bread,  parsley    for 
garnish. 

Wipe  the  anchovies  with  a  damp  cloth,  remove  the 
fillets,  and  cut  into  strips.  Cut  the  toast  in  oblong 
slices  about  three  inches  long  and  two  inches  broad,  and 
butter  them.  Beat  up  the  eggs;  put  them,  togetlier 
with  the  anchovy  essence,  an  ounce  of  butter,  and  the 
cream,  in  a  small  stewpan  ;  add  a  pinch  of  cayenne,  and 
salt  to  taste.  Stir  over  the  fire  until  the  mixture  begins 
to  set ;  put  an  equal  quantity  on  the  buttered  side  of 
each  piece  of  toast ;  lay  the  strips  of  anchovies  across 
each  in  the  shape  of  lattice -work  ;  place  a  caper  in  each 
cavity  ;  dish  up,  put  the  dish  in  the  oven  for  a  few 
minutes,  garnish  with  parsley,  and  serve  hot. 

730.  (Eufs  brouilles  aux  Truffes. — 6  eggs,  1^  oz. 
butter,  1  large  truffle,  ^  glass  Marsala,  salt,  pepper, 
nutmeg,  1  slice  toasted  bread. 

Cut  the  truffle  into  fine  shreds ;  put  in  a  stewpan 
with  the  wine  and  a  tiny  piece  of  butter ;  cover  and 
reduce  the  liquid  to  about  half  its  quantity.  Break  the 
eggs  into  a  basin  ;  season  with  salt,  pepper,  and  a  pinch 
of  grated  nutmeg  ;  mix  thoroughly.  Melt  the  butter  in 
a  stewpan,  pour  in  the  eggs,  stir  over  the  fire  until 


664  RECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

the  mixture  begins  to  set ;  then  add  the  truffle,  &c., 
quickly.  Mix  well  together ;  stir  over  the  fire  for 
another  minute  ;  then  turn  on  a  hot  dish  on  a  slice  of 
buttered  toast ;  dress  in  a  heap,  garnish  with  a  few 
sippets  of  toast,  and  serve. 

N.B. — Cooked  ham,  tongue,  mushrooms,  peas, 
asparagus  points,  &c.,  maybe  used  as  a  change,  in  place 
of  the  truffles,  and  for  cooked  vegetables  the  wine  should 
be  omitted  and  replaced  with  cream. 

731.  (Eufs  a  la  Duchesse. — 8  eggs,  8  slices  of  cooked 
ham,  about  1^  lb.  mashed  potatoes,  4  oz.  chicken 
forcemeat,  4  oz.  cooked  ox-tongue,  6  mushrooms,  2 
truffles,  ^  pint  tomato  sauce,  1  gill  bechamel,  1  oz. 
lobster  butter. 

Fill  a  flat  border-mould  wdth  potato  puree,  pre- 
viously seasoned ;  turn  out  on  to  a  dish ;  brush  over  with 
yolk  of  egg.  Stamp  out  or  trim  the  slices  of  ham  to 
the  size  of  an  egg  ;  range  them  neatly  on  the  border. 
Cut  the  truffles,  mushrooms,  and  ham  trimmings  into 
small  dice  ;  moisten  with  a  little  sauce  (white) ;  season 
to  taste,  and  put  in  the  centre  of  the  border.  Spread 
the  forcemeat  over  the  top,  and  ornament  a  little  ;  bake 
for  10  minutes  in  a  hot  oven.  Poach  the  eggs  in  salted 
water  or  white  stock,  take  up,  drain,  trim,  and  dress  on 
the  slices  of  ham  round  the  border.  Stamp  out  some 
little  rounds  of  lobster  butter,  put  one  on  each  egg  ; 
sauce  round  with  well-reduced  tomato  sauce,  and  serve 
the  remainder  in  a  boat. 

732.  (Eufs  en  Feuilletage. — 5  hard-boiled  eggs,  h  lb. 
puff-paste,  1  raw  egg,  pepper  and  salt,  breadcrumbs, 
clarified  butter  or  lard  for  frying. 

Remove  the  shell  from  the  eggs  when  cold ;  mix  a 
little  white  pepper  with  some  fine  dry  salt ;  roll  four 
eggs  in  this.  Roll  out  the  puft'-paste  about  J  inch 
thick  ;  wrap  up  each  egg  in  the  paste  ;  brush  the  edges 
of  the  paste  so  as  to  close  the  ends  securely ;  egg  and 
breadcrumb  over  twice,  place  them  in  a  wire  basket  and 
fry  in  hot  butter  or  lard  a  nice  light  brown  ;  this  must 


SAYOURIES    AND    BREAKFAST    DISHES.  665 

be  done  very  carefully,  to  ensure  the  paste  getting  done 
through.  Cut  some  rings,  about  ^  in.  thick,  of  the 
remaining  hard-boiled  egg.  Take  out  the  yolk,  put  each 
fried  egg  in  a  ring  so  that  they  may  stand  upright ;  dish 
up  in  a  circle  on  a  napkin;  put  a  handful  of  picked, 
washed,  dried,  and  fried  parsley  in  the  centre,  and 
serve. 

733.  (Eufs  Garnis  a  la  Coquette. — 5  new-laid  eggs, 
1  oz.  butter,  about  i  gill  cream,  2  oz.  lean  ham  or 
tongue,  salt,  cayenne,  and  nutmeg. 

Procure  five  small  china  souffle  cases  ;  butter  them 
well ;  put  a  small  piece  of  butter  in  each  of  them,  also 
about  a  tablespoonful  of  cream,  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  a 
little  grated  nutmeg  :  place  them  on  a  baking- sheet  in 
a  hot  oven  or  on  the  top  of  the  stove.  When  the 
contents  commence  to  simmer,  break  carefully  in  each 
one  egg;  put  a  tiny  pinch  of  cayenne  pepper  m  the 
centre  of  each  yolk ;  put  back  on  the  stove  or  in  the 
oven,  and  allow  the  eggs  to  set  lightly.  Have  ready 
the  ham  or  tongue  finely  chopped,  sprinkle  over  the 
white  part  so  as  to  leave  the  yolks  free  ;  serve  very 
hot. 

734.  (Eufs  Miroir  a  la  Princesse. — 6  eggs,  G  rounds 
fried  bread,  1  oz.  butter,  2  oz.  cooked  ham  or  tongue, 
parsley,  the  yolk  of  a  hard-boiled  egg,  asparagus  point 
ragout,  salt  and  pepper. 

Melt  the  butter  in  a  saute-pan  ;  break  the  eggs  one 
by  one  into  a  basin  and  slide  them  into  the  pan,  and 
cook  them  in  the  oven  until  the  whites  are  set ;  season 
lightly  with  white  pepper  and  salt.  Cut  them  out  with 
a  plain  round  cutter  and  place  each  on  a  crouton  of 
fried  bread.  Ornament  the  eggs  with  alternate  little 
groups  of  chopped  ham  or  tongue,  chopped  parsley,  and 
chopped  yolk  of  egg  (hard  boiled).  Dress  them  neatly 
on  a  round  dish  ;  put  them  in  the  oven  just  a  second  or 
two  ;  fill  the  centre  with  a  ragout  of  asparagus  points, 
and  serve. 

735.  (Eufs   Farcis    aux    Crevettes. — 4    hard-boiled 


666  RECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

eggs,  12  large  or  18  small  prawns,  3  Gorgona  anchovies, 
1^  oz.  butter,  1  tablespoonful  bechamel  sauce,  salt, 
pepper,  and  cayenne,  1  gill  tomato  sauce. 

Eemove  the  shell  from  the  eggs,  cut  them  in  halves 
cross  ways,  scoop  out  the  yolks  and  put  them  in  a 
mortar,  add  the  boned  anchovies  and  picked  prawns, 
and  pound  very  fine.  Rub  all  through  a  wire  sieve  ; 
return  to  the  mortar,  add  the  butter  and  bechamel  sauce, 
mix  thoroughly,  and  season  to  taste.  Fill  up  the  hard- 
boiled  whites  of  egg,  place  a  prawn  head  in  the  centre 
of  each,  sprinkle  the  surface  with  a  little  grated  Par- 
mesan cheese  ;  put  them  on  a  buttered  dish  or  saute- 
pan  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  for  about  ten  minutes. 
Dish  up  neatly,  sauce  round  with  hot  tomato  sauce,  and 
serve. 

736.  (Eufs  a  la  Carnot. — Hot.  Trim  neatly  some 
artichoke  bottoms  of  a  nice  white  colour,  cut  the  edges 
like  a  fancy  border,  keep  warm  in  some  dissolved 
meat  glaze.  Have  ready  some  rather  thick  chicken 
puree,  finished  with  a  little  fresh  butter  over  the  fire. 
Poach  a  iiet>h-laid  egg  for  each  fond,  place  a  table- 
spoonful  of  chicken  puree  into  the  fond,  trim  the  eggs 
nicely,  place  on  top,  dish  up,  sauce  over  with  gravy,  and 
serve. 

737.  Fonds  a  la  President. — Cut  the  edges  of  a 
number  of  artichoke  bottoms  as  for  fancy  border,  mask 
them  over  with  some  dissolved  meat  glaze  into  which  a 
little  aspic  jelly  has  been  introduced.  Put  a  little 
chicken  puree  at  the  bottom  of  each  fond,  cut  some 
hard-boiled  eggs  in  halves,  cut  oft"  the  points  evenly, 
place  one  half  on  each  fond,  on  top  put  a  small  slice 
of  truftie,  mask  the  whole  with  aspic  jelly,  set  to  cool, 
and  serve. 

738.  (Eufs  a  la  Salamandre. — 6  or  8  eggs,  6  or  H 
slices  of  toasted  bread,  2  oz.  cooked  ham  or  beef- 
tongue,  1  oz.  butter,  1  gill  well-reduced  bechamel 
sauce,  8  oz.  grated  cheese,  salt,  pepper,  cayenne,  1 
tea  spoonful  chilli  vinegar  or  1  tablespoonful  French 
vinegar. 


SAVOURIES    AND    BREAKFAST    DISHES.  667 

Have  ready  a  saute-pan  half  filled  with  water;  add  the 
vmegar  and  sufficient  salt  to  taste.  Pound  the  meat  in 
a  mortar  till  smooth,  add  half  the  hutter,  1  oz.  cheese, 
and  sufficient  sauce  to  form  a  smooth  paste  ;  season  it 
with  pepper,  and  rub  through  a  sieve.  Stamp  out  as 
many  oval  shapes  of  toasted  bread  as  there  are  eggs, 
butter  them  well,  and  spread  one  side  thickly  with  the 
puree  above  prepared  ;  place  them  on  a  dish  when 
ready  and  keep  hot  at  the  mouth  of  the  oven.  Break 
the  eggs  carefully  into  the  saute-pan  containing  the 
seasoned  water  (boiling),  poach  for  three  minutes,  take 
up  with  a  slice,  trim  and  place  on  the  prepared  toasts, 
mask  quickly  with  bechamel  sauce,  sprinkle  well  with 
cheese,  brown  under  a  red-hot  salamander,  dish  up, 
and  serve. 

739.  Cotelettes  a  la  Suzanne. — 4  hard-boiled  eggs, 
2  raw  eggs,  1  pint  bechamel  sauce,  3  oz.  lean  ham, 
6  mushrooms,  1  teaspoonful  chopped  parsley,  1  lb. 
cooked  spinach.  IJ  oz.  butter,  1  tablespoonful  cream, 
salt,  pepper,  nutmeg,  2  shallots,  mashed  potatoes  for 
border,  breadcrumbs,  frying  fat. 

Reduce  the  sauce  to  about  1^  gill,  chop  coarsely 
the  hard-boiled  eggs,  ham,  and  mushrooms,  stir  two 
yolks  of  eggs  into  the  sauce,  let  it  bind  without  boiling ; 
then  add  the  chopped  eggs,  ham,  mushrooms,  and 
parsley ;  season  to  taste  with  pepper,  salt,  and  nutmeg. 
Spread  on  a  dish  or  x^late  and  let  cool.  Put  the  spinach 
through  a  sieve,  peel  and  chop  the  shallot,  fry  in  the 
butter  a  golden  colour,  put  in  the  spinach,  and  season 
to  taste.  Mix  the  cream  with  a  little  flour  and  stir  into 
the  spinach  and  cook  for  ten  mmutes.  Shape  the  egg- 
mixture  into  neat  cutlets,  egg  and  crumb.  Fry  in  hot 
fat,  drain,  dish  up  on  a  border  of  potatoes  on  a  hot  dish, 
fill  the  centre  with  the  prepared  spinach,  and  serve. 

740.  (Eufs  Farcis  sur  Croutes  a  I'lndienne. — 4  hard- 
boiled  eggs,  2^  oz.  butter,  1  oz.  anchovy  paste,  1 
teaspoonful  curry  paste,  1  teaspoonful  chutney,  1  table- 
spoonful  cooked  spinach,  8  small  round  slices  of  bread, 
2  pickled  red  chillies. 


668  EECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

Peel  the  eggs,  cut  them  in  halves  crossways,  scoop 
out  the  yolks  and  put  in  a  mortar,  add  to  this  1^  oz. 
butter,  the  anchovy  paste,  curry  paste,  and  chutney ; 
pound  until  quite  smooth,  and  rub  through  a  sieve. 
Fill  the  hollows  of  the  whites  of  eggs  with  this.  Have 
ready  eight  rounds  of  bread  a  little  larger  than  the  cut 
sides  of  the  eggs,  fry  them  to  a  golden  colour  in  butter 
or  lard,  when  cold  spread  one  side  with  the  remainder 
of  the  mixture,  cut  the  points  off  the  eggs  so  as  to 
make  them  stand  firmly,  and  place  each  half  in  the 
centre  of  a  croute.  Cut  out  fanciful  pieces  of  the  chilli 
pod,  put  one  in  the  centre  of  the  stuffing,  mix  the 
spinach  with  the  butter,  rub  all  through  a  fine  sieve, 
put  this  into  a  forcing-bag  or  paper  cornet,  and  orna- 
ment the  sides  and  tops  of  croutes  according  to  fancy  ; 
keep  in  a  cool  place  until  required  for  serving. 

741.  Niokes  au  Gratin. — 2  oz.  butter,  ^  pint  water, 
3  oz.  flour  or  2  oz.  florador,  2  eggs,  3  oz.  grated 
cheese,  3  oz.  chopped  ham,  Ig  gill  bechamel  sauce, 
salt,  and  paprika  pepper. 

Put  the  water  and  butter  in  the  stewpan,  add  a  pinch 
of  salt,  stir  in  when  boiling  the  flour  or  florador,  and 
work  over  the  tire  until  it  becomes  perfectly  smooth, 
like  a  p^ite  u  cliou.  Eemove  the  pan  from  the  fire,  let 
the  paste  cool  a  little,  then  add  the  eggs  one  at  a  time, 
and  work  in  at  the  same  time  a  handful  of  grated  cheese, 
and  the  ham  roughly  chopped.  Divide  the  paste,  shape 
:t  into  little  quenelle  shapes  on  a  floured  board,  put  these 
into  boiling  water,  and  cook  for  a  few  minutes.  Drain 
the  quenelles  on  a  sieve,  let  cool,  and  arrange  them 
neatly  on  a  buttered  gratin  dish.  Cover  with  well- 
reduced  bechamel  sauce,  sprinkle  well  with  grated 
cheese,  season  ^\ith  a  good  pinch  of  paprika,  and  bake 
in  a  hot  oven  for  ten  minutes.  Stand  the  dish  on  a 
folded  napkin,  and  serve  very  hot. 

742.  Beignets  a  la  Gruyere.— About  h  lb.  choux 
paste,  No.  39,  about  ^  lb.  Gruyere  cheese,  1  egg,  soft 
breadcrumbs,  salt,  Nepaul  pepper,  fat  for  frying. 

Cut  the  cheese  into  slices  about  a  quarter  of  an  inch 


SATOUPJES    AND    BREAKFAST    DISHES.  669 

thick,  stamp  out  some  ovals  with  a  pastry  cutter,  wipe 
each  piece  with  a  dry  cloth,  coat  one  side  of  each  piece 
of  cheese  with  choux  paste,  smooth  over  with  a  palette 
knife  ;  beat  up  the  eggs.  Have  ready  a  plateful  of  bread- 
crumbs, mix  with  them  two  saltspoonfuls  of  salt  and  a 
good  pinch  of  Nepaul  pepper.  Dip  the  slices  of  cheese 
in  the  egg-crumb,  let  the  coating  get  dry,  then  egg  and 
crumb  again.  Let  them  stand  for  a  few  minutes,  and 
then  plunge  them  into  hot  fat,  and  fry  until  of  a  golden 
colour.  Drain,  dish  up  on  a  folded  napkin,  and  serve 
quickly. 

743.  Petites  Croutes  an  Fromage. — White  or  brown 
bread,  clarified  fat  or  butter  for  frying,  1  oz.  fresh  butter, 
1  yolk  of  egg,  1  dessert- spoonful  cream  or  milk,  2  oz. 
grated  Parmesan  cheese,  1  oz.  breadcrumbs,  pepper,  salt, 
and  cayenne. 

Cut  some  slices  of  bread  about  half  an  inch  thick, 
stamp  out  some  rounds  one  and  a  quarter  inches  in 
diameter,  mark  the  centre  with  a  smaller  cutter,  and 
scoop  out  the  centre  to  receive  the  filling.  Prepare 
a  mixture  with  the  cream,  egg-yolk,  butter,  cheese,  and 
breadcrumbs,  season  to  taste.  Fry  the  hollowed 
croutes  in  hot  fat  a  golden  colour,  drain,  and  fill  with 
the  cheese  mixture  ;  heap  up,  and  smooth  the  surface 
with  the  blade  of  a  knife,  put  it  in  the  oven  for  a  few 
minutes,  or  hold  under  a  hot  salamander  long  enough 
to  brown  the  top,  and  serve  on  a  folded  napkin. 

744.  Diablotines  a  la  Gruyere. — Line  a  dozen  small 
dariole  moulds  with  very  thin  ordinary  paste  ;  boil  up  a 
gill  of  milk  in  a  stewpan,  add  one  ounce  of  butter, 
mix  with  half  an  ounce  of  cornflour,  also  three  ounces 
of  grated  Gruyere  cheese  :  stir  well  over  the  fire,  and  mix 
with  two  beaten  eggs,  season  with  a  little  salt,  and 
highly  with  cayenne.  Half  fill  the  moulds  with  this 
preparation,  put  a  small  quantity  of  anchovy  or  bloater 
paste  in  the  centre  of  each,  cover  with  the  remaining 
mixture,  sprinkle  the  surface  with  grated  cheese,  bake 
in  a  moderate  oven  a  light  brown,  turn  out,  and  serve 
quickly  on  a  folded  napkin. 


670  RECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

745.  Flan  de  Vacherin  a  la  Bernoise.-  1  gill  of 
double  cream,  3  oz.  Gruyere  cheese  (grated),  2  whole 
and  1  yolk  of  eggs,  a  pinch  of  salt,  a  dust  of  Nepaul  or 
paprika  pepper,  1  oz.  of  butter,  1  oz.  flour,  about  ^  lb.  of 
short-crust  paste. 

Koll  out  the  paste  about  an  eighth  of  an  inch  thick, 
place  one  large  or  two  small  flan  rings  (pastry  hoops  or 
flour  rings)  on  a  greased  baking-sheet.  Line  the 
ring  with  the  paste,  and  trim  off  the  edges  of  the  paste  ; 
prick  the  bottom  with  a  fork  to  avoid  blistering.  Put  the 
cream  into  an  earthenware  (fireproof)  saucepan,  let  it 
come  to  the  boil ;  mix  the  flour  wath  the  butter,  and 
stir  into  the  cream  in  little  bits.  Remove  from  the  fire, 
add  the  grated  cheese  and  the  yolks  of  eggs,  season  wdth 
salt  and  pepper.  Beat  up  the  whites  of  eggs  to  a  stiff 
froth,  and  amalgamate  with  the  mixture.  Fill  up  the 
]Daste  ring  about  three-parts  full,  and  bake  in  a 
moderately  heated  oven  for  about  twenty-five  minutes. 
When  done,  loosen  the  ring  with  the  blade  of  a  knife, 
and  carefully  remove  it.  Place  the  flan  with  a  slice  on 
to  a  hot  dish,  with  a  folded  napkin  or  dish-paper,  and 
serve  as  hot  as  possible. 

746.  Petites  Gondoles  au  Parmesan. — Line  twelve 
small  boat-shape  or  oval  moulds  with  ordinary  paste 
crust,  fill  with  peas  or  rice,  bake  in  the  oven  a  nice 
colour,  and  take  out  the  rice  or  dried  peas.  Put  in  a 
stewpan  three  tablespoonfuls  of  bechamel  sauce,  warm 
up,  and  add  about  a  gill  of  savoury  aspic,  a  pinch  of 
salt,  and  a  pinch  of  cayenne.  Allow  it  to  reduce  a  little. 
Incorporate  with  one  tablespoonful  grated  Parmesan 
cheese  and  two  of  grated  Gruyere  cheese.  When  per- 
fectly cool,  add  half  gill  of  whipped  double  cream. 
Fill  a  forcing- bag  wdth  the  mixture  and  proceed  to  fill 
up  the  baked  crusts,  sprinkle  the  tops  with  grated 
Parmesan,  and  serve. 

747.  Cheese  Straws.  —  About  6  oz.  puff-paste, 
2  oz.  freshly  grated  Parmesan  cheese,  cayenne 
pepper. 


SAVOURIES    AND    BREAKFAST    DISHES.  671 

Roll  out  the  paste,  sprinkle  well  with  grated  cheese, 
fold  in  three,  and  give  it  one  turn.  Allow  it  to  stand 
for  ten  minutes,  and  repeat  the  operation  until  the 
cheese  is  used  up.  Do  not  use  any  flour  for  flouring 
the  board  ;  use  grated  cheese  in  place.  When  rolling 
out  for  the  last  time,  sprinkle  with  a  little  cayenne 
pepper.  Cut  the  paste  into  very  narrow  strips  about  3 
inches  long,  twist  each  strip  in  screw- like  fashion,  and 
place  in  rows  on  a  wetted  baking-sheet.  Shape  also 
7  or  8  rings  about  1^  inch  in  diameter.  Bake  the  strips 
and  rings  in  a  slow  oven  for  about  ten  minutes.  Make 
up  into  bundles  by  means  of  the  rings,  dish  up  on  a 
folded  napkin,  and  serve  hot. 

748.  Macaroni  a  la  Dieppoise.— ^  lb.  Naples  maca- 
roni, 1  qt.  stock,  1  gill  bechamel  sauce,  ^  lb.  chicken 
forcemeat,  12  fresh  prawns,  2  oz.  butter,  lobster  spawn, 
1^  oz.  grated  Parmesan  cheese,  seasoning. 

Blanch  the  macaroni,  pour  in  a  colander,  place  them 
again  in  a  stewpan  with  two  quarts  of  water,  and  parboil; 
strain  off  the  water,  cut  the  macaroni  into  pieces  about 
an  inch  long,  add  the  stock,  butter,  and  half  a  teaspoon- 
ful  of  salt,  let  simmer  until  tender,  stir  in  half  the  cheese, 
and  season  with  pepper.  Mix  the  forcemeat  with 
sufficient  cooked  lobster  spawn  to  colour,  and  remove 
the  tails  from  the  prawns.  Butter  a  silver-plated  gratin- 
dish,  put  a  little  bechamel  sauce  on  the  dish,  spread  a 
thick  layer  of  macaroni,  next  put  on  a  layer  of  force- 
meat, then  another  layer  of  macaroni,  sprinkle  a  little 
grated  Parmesan  between  each  layer,  use  forcemeat  for 
the  next  layer,  coat  well  with  bechamel  sauce,  cover 
with  Parmesan  cheese,  arrange  the  prawns  round  the 
edge  of  the  mixture  in  a  circular  form,  sprinkle  with  a 
few  fresh  breadcrumbs  in  the  centre,  also  a  few  drops 
of  oiled  butter.  Bake  in  a  moderately  heated  oven  for 
about  half  an  hour,  garnish  with  the  heads  of  the 
prawns  and  a  few  bits  of  curly  parsley,  put  the  dish 
on  to  another  suitable  dish,  and  serve  hot. 

749.  Croquettes   de  Semoule. — 1    lb.    semolina    or 


672  RECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

coarse-grained  florador,  1  pint  of  milk,  3  eggs,  1  oz.  of 
grated  Parmesan,  1  oz.  of  butter,  breadcrumbs,  frying 
fat,  pepper  and  salt. 

Cook  the  semolina  or  florador  in  the  milk  (let  the 
milk  and  butter  boil  up,  and  stir  in  the  semolina) ;  cook 
slowly  for  ten  minutes.  Season  with  a  little  salt, 
pepper,  and  a  pinch  of  grated  nutmeg  ;  add  three  yolks 
of  eggs,  and  the  cheese  ;  beat  up  well  and  spread  on  a 
flat  dish  to  cool.  Stamp  out  into  shapes  (oblong 
or  round),  dip  in  beaten  egg,  crumb  well,  fry  in  hot 
fat  or  clarified  butter,  strain  on  a  cloth  ;  dish  up 
on  a  folded  napkin,  garnish  with  fried  parsley,  and 
serve. 

750.  Petits  Cannelons  au  Florador. — \  lb.  nouille 
paste,  4  oz.  florador,  1  oz.  butter,  1  pi  at  milk,  2  oz. 
grated  cheese,  1  egg,  2  slices  cooked  ham  or  tongue, 
breadcrumbs,  salt,  pepper,  frying  fat  or  butter. 

Put  the  milk  and  butter  in  a  stewpan  ;  when  boiling, 
sprinkle  in  the  florador,  stir  and  boil  gently  for  ten 
minutes,  then  add  the  grated  cheese  and  a  pinch  of  salt 
and  pepper  to  taste.  Spread  the  mixture  on  a  flat  dish. 
Roll  out  the  nouille  paste  very  thinly,  cut  it  into  even- 
sized  pieces  about  an  inch  wide  and  three  inches  long. 
Spread  the  centre  with  a  thick  layer  of  the  mixture,  put 
a  strip  of  ham  or  tongue  in  the  middle  of  each,  wet  the 
edges  a  little  and  roll  each  piece  neatly,  so  that  the 
paste  completely  envelopes  the  mixture.  Beat  up  the 
egg,  brush  over  the  cannelons,  roll  them  in  breadcrumbs  ; 
when  dry,  egg  and  crumb  again ;  fry  in  hot  fat  or 
clarified  butter,  drain,  and  dish  up  on  a  napkin  or  lace 
paper  ;  garnish  with  parsley. 

751.  Biscuits  au  Parmesan  (Cheese  Biscuits).  — 
3  oz.  flour,  2  oz.  butter,  2  oz.  grated  Parmesan 
cheese,  2  yolks  of  eggs,  1  teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice, 
a  pinch  of  cayenne  and  salt ;  whipped  cream  for 
garnish. 

Sift  the  flour  and  cayenne  on  to  a  board,  rub  in  the 
butter,  and  mix  with  the  grated  cheese.  Make  a  well  in 
the  centre,  put  in  the  yolks,  lemon  juice,  and  a  tea- 


SAVOURIES    AND    BREAKFAST    DISHES.  673 

spoonful  of  water  and  work  to  a  smooth  stiff  paste.  Roll 
out  the  pastry  very  thinly,  stamp  out  some  small  rounds, 
place  on  a  floured  bali;ing- sheet,  prick  them  with  a  fork, 
and  bake  in  a  cool  oven  for  a  few  minutes.  Before 
serving,  place  a  small  quantity  of  whipped  cream  mixed 
with  Parmesan  and  a  pinch  of  cayenne,  in  the  shape  of 
a  pyramid,  in  the  centre  of  each  biscuit. 

752.  Biscuits  de  Fromage  a  la  Creme. — 3  oz.  Vienna 
flour,  1  oz.  Paisley  flour,  4  oz.  butter,  4  oz.  Parmesan 
cheese  (grated),  ^  lemon,  2  yolks  of  eggs,  ^  gill  cream, 
salt,  and  cayenne  pepper. 

Put  the  flour  into  a  basin,  mix  with  it  about  a  quarter 
of  a  teaspoonful  of  salt,  and  a  pinch  of  cayenne.  Rub 
in  the  butter  until  quite  smooth,  then  mix  3  oz.  grated 
Parmesan  cheese ;  add  the  juice  of  half  a  lemon,  the 
two  yolks  of  eggs,  and  work  into  a  stiff  paste.  If  too 
short  for  rolling  add  a  few  drops  of  milk,  but  the  less 
the  better.  Roll  out  the  paste  about  ^  of  an  inch  thick, 
stamp  out  some  round  shapes,  place  them  on  a  baking- 
sheet,  prick  them  with  a  fork,  and  bake  for  ten  minutes 
in  a  cool  oven.  Whip  the  cream,  add  the  remaining 
ounce  of  cheese  and  a  pinch  of  cayenne,  put  a  little 
pyramid  in  the  centre  of  each  biscuit  by  means  of  a 
forcing-bag  or  cornet,  and  serve  cold  on  a  folded  napkin 
or  dish-paper. 

753.  Amandes  Salees.— Blanch  and  peel  some  whole 
almonds,  spread  them  on  a  paper-covered  board  or 
baking-sheet,  and  bake  to  a  golden  colour.  Dissolve  a 
little  gum  arable  in  some  water,  just  enough  to  thicken — ■ 
about  ^  gill  of  water.  Sprinkle  the  almonds  whilst 
hot  with  this,  shake  well,  and  dust  over  with  fine  salt 
by  means  of  a  salt-dredger.  Shake  up  the  almonds 
from  time  to  time  until  they  are  cool ;  they  will 
then  be  ready  for  serving.  Salted  almonds,  the 
same  as  pistachios,  filberts,  or  hazel  nuts,  which  can 
be  done  in  the  same  way,  are  dished  up  in  fancy  paper 
cases,  and  are  handed  round  with  the  dessert.  They 
should  remain  on  the  table  during  the  whole  of  the 
dinner. 


674 


EECHERCHE    COOKERY. 


754.  Aniandes  a  la  Diable. — J  lb.  almonds,  1  oz. 
butter,  ^  gill  sweet  oil,  salt,  cayenne  pepper. 

Scald  and  peel  the  almonds,  place  them  on  a  baking- 
tin  and  dry  in  a  cool  oven.  Clarify  the  butter,  add  the 
oil,  and,  when  hot,  put  in  the  almonds  ;  keep  stirring 
gently  until  they  are  equally  slightly  browned.  Put 
them  in  a  frying-basket,  drain  and  shake  well ;  then 
put  them  on  a  cloth,  sprinkle  liberally  with  fine  salt 
and  cayenne  pepper,  fold  the  cloth,  and  shake  them  a 
few  seconds.     Dish  up  and  serve  hot. 


CHAPTER  XIV. 

PASTEIES   (Yaeious),   CAKES,    BISCUITS, 
TAETLETS,  &c. 

755.  Gaufres  a  la  Suisse. — For  gaufres  :  ^  lb.  ground 
almonds,  ^Ib,  castor  sugar,  1  egg  whole  and  two  yolks, 
10  drops  vanilla  essence.  For  cream  :  2  whites  of  eggs, 
2  oz.  ground  almonds,  ^  teaspoonful  ground  cinnamon, 
1  tablespoonful  cream,  J  lb.  icing  sugar. 

Cream  the  sugar  and  eggs  together  ;  when  perfectly 
smooth  and  creamy  mix  with  :Jlb.  ground  almonds  and  the 
vanilla  essence.  Grease  a  baking-sheet,  and  place  upon 
it  tablespoonfuls  of  the  mixture  about  one-and-a-half 
inches  apart  from  each  other,  and  bake  in  a  moderately 
heated  oven.  When  nearly  done,  take  it  out  of  the  oven 
and  wrap  each  gaufre  quickly  round  a  well-greased  cornet 
or  cornucopia  tin  ;  put  back  in  the  oven  and  bake  a  few 
seconds  longer,  then  remove  from  the  tins,  and  place  on 
a  sieve  to  cool.  Beat  the  whites  of  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth, 
mix  in  gradually  the  ground  almonds,  cinnamon,  icing 
sugar,  and  aboiit  a  tablespoonful  of  whipped  cream,  put 
this  mixture  in  a  forcing  bag,  and  fill  the  cornets  or  the 
gaufres  with  it.  Lay  them  on  a  baking-tin  and  put  in 
a  cool  oven  long  enough  to  set  the  filUng.  Serve  hot  or 
cold. 

N.B. — If  preferred,  the  gaufres  can  be  filled  with 
whipped  cream,  slightly  sweetened  with  vanilla  sugar. 
In  this  case  they  are  served  cold. 

756.  Tourte  a  la  Frangipane. — |  lb.  short-crust  or 
puff -paste  trimmings,  3  oz.  flour,  4  yolks  of  eggs,  ^  pint 
cream  or  milk,  2  oz.  castor  sugar,  2  oz.  butter,  1  inch 
cinnamon,  1  inch  of  vanilla  pod  (split),  2  oz.  ground 
almonds,  a  pinch  of  salt. 

43 


676  RECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

Eoll  out  the  paste  about  a  quarter  of  an  inch  thick. 
Place  a  flan  or  pastry  ring,  about  six  inches  in  dia- 
meter, on  a  baking-tin,  butter  slightly,  and  line  with 
paste ;  notch  the  edges  with  the  back  of  a  knife,  and  fill 
with  Frangipane  cream,  made  as  follows :  Mix  the  flour 
to  a  smooth  paste  with  the  yolks  of  eggs,  stirring  them  in 
gradually.  Boil  up  the  milk  or  cream  with  the  cinnamon 
and  vanilla,  add  the  sugar,  and  mix  with  the  above,  also 
adding  the  butter,  melted.  Stir  gently  over  a  moderate 
fire  until  it  becomes  consistent,  then  pass  through  a 
strainer,  removing  the  vanilla  and  cinnamon.  Eeturn 
to  the  stewpan,  stir  in  the  almonds,  and  add  a  pinch 
of  salt  ;  cook  a  few  minutes  longer.  Remove  from  the 
fire,  and  beat  well  for  a  time.  Let  cool,  prick  the 
paste  with  a  fork,  and  fill  the  same  as  directed.  Bake  a 
golden  colour  in  a  moderately  heated  oven.  Dast  with 
castor  or  icing  sugar,  and  glaze.     Serve  hot  or  cold. 

757.  Tartelettes  aux  Oranges. — 2  Jaffa  or  St.  Michael 
or  4  Tangerine  oranges,  3  oz.  sugar  (castor),  3  oz.  butter, 

3  yolks  and  1  white  of  eggs,  ^  teaspoonful  vanilla 
essence,  about  J  lb.  puff-paste  trimmings. 

Peel  the  oranges  very  thinly,  without  cutting  any  of 
the  white  part ;  chop  the  rind  finely.  Cream  the  butter 
and  sugar,  add  by  degrees  the  yolks  of  eggs,  stir  in  the 
vanilla  essence,  chopped  orange  rind,  and  two  table- 
spoonfuls  of  orange  juice.  Add  a  pincl^  of  salt  to  the 
white  of  egg,  whisk  to  a  stiff*  froth,  and  fold  into  the 
mixture.  Roll  out  the  paste,  line  from  eight  to  ten  tart- 
let-moulds, prick  the  paste  with  a  fork,  and  fill  three- 
parts  full  with  the  mixture.  Put  them  on  a  baking-tin, 
bake  for  fifteen  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven,  then  dust 
with  sugar,  and  finish  baking.  Turn  out,  cool,  and 
dish  up  on  a  folded  napkin  or  dish-paper. 

758.  Tartelettes  a  la  Balmoral. — Puff -paste  for  lining 
tartlet-moulds,  2  eggs,  2  oz.  dried  cherries,  4  oz.  butter, 

4  oz.  castor  sugar,  ^  oz.  fecule  or  1  oz.  Brown  &  Pol- 
son's  cornflour,  2  oz.  crushed  spongecakes,  2  oz.  lemon 
peel. 

Beat  the  butter  and  the  sugar  to  a  cream,  add  the 


PASTRIES    (various),    CAKES,    TARTLETS,    &C.     677 

egg-yolks  one  at  a  time  ;  chop  the  cherries  and  peel  very 
small,  and  add  to  the  mixture  ;  beat  together  with  the 
powdered  spongecakes.  Lme  the  tartlet-moulds  with 
pufif-paste  trimmings.  Whisk  the  whites  of  eggs  to  a 
stiff  froth,  and  mix  this  with  the  cornflour  or  fecule 
carefully  into  the  mixture  ;  fill  up  the  lined  moulds  (not 
quite  full),  dust  with  sugar,  place  them  on  a  tin,  and  bake 
in  a  moderate  oven  for  eighteen  minutes. 

759.  Granville  Tartlets. — 2  oz.  butter,  2  oz.  currants, 
1  oz.  ground  rice,  2  whites  of  eggs,  1  oz.  candied  peel,  3 
oz.  sugar,  3  oz.  sponge-cake  crumbs,  f  lb.  puff-paste,  a 
little  water  icing,  5  drops  of  lemon  essence,  1  tablespoon- 
ful  cream,  1  oz.  dessert  cocoanut. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar  until  perfectly  smooth, 
add  the  ground  rice  and  crumbs,  chop  the  peel  finely 
and  add  together  with  the  currants,  cream,  and  flavour- 
ing essence.  Beat  up  the  whites  and  amalgamate.  Roll 
out  the  paste,  cut  out  some  rounds,  and  line  small  oval 
tartlet-moulds ;  put  in  a  spoonful  of  the  mixture,  and 
bake  in  a  moderately  heated  oven.  Cover  the  tops  with 
water  or  fondant  icing,  sprinkle  with  desiccated  cocoanut, 
and  serve. 

760.  Clarence  Tartlets. — 2  eggs,  4  oz.  castor  sugar, 
6  oz.  fresh  butter,  a  pinch  of  grated  nutmeg,  orange 
flavouring,  crystallised  cherries,  puff-paste. 

Lme  a  dozen  tartlet-moulds  with  puff-paste  trim- 
mings. Beat  the  eggs  and  sugar  to  a  cream,  add  a  pinch 
of  grated  nutmeg,  and  a  few  drops  of  orange  flavouring. 
Dissolve  the  butter  and  stir  into  the  mixture ;  fill  the 
tartlets  about  three-parts  full.  Place  on  a  baking-sheet 
and  bake  to  a  dehcate  brown  in  a  moderate  oven.  When 
done,  place  a  crystallised  cherry  in  the  centre  of  each  and 
ornament  round  with  a  few  fancifully-cut  pieces  of 
angelique. 

761.  Tartelettes  a  la  Saint-Denis.— 6  oz.  Vienna 
or  Coombs'  self-raising  flour,  4  oz.  butter,  3  eggs,  1 
tablespoonful  milk,  4  oz.  sugar,  a  pinch  of  salt,  rasplDerry 
jam,  2  oz.  ground  almonds,  1  tablespoonful  fecule  or 
cornflower,  vanilla  essence. 


678  RECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

Prepare  a  short-crust  paste  with  the  flour,  2  oz, 
butter,  2  oz.  castor  sugar,  one  egg,  and  a  pinch  of  salt. 
Roll  it  out  about  ^  of  an  inch  thick,  stamp  out 
some  rounds  and  line  10  or  12  tartlet-moulds,  and  put  a 
teaspoonful  of  ras^Dberry  jam  in  the  centre  of  each.  Put 
2  oz.  of  butter  in  a  basin,  cream  it  with  2  oz.  of  castor 
sugar,  and,  when  well  worked,  add  the  ground  almonds, 
fecule,  and  2  yolks  of  eggs  ;  beat  the  white  of  one  egg  to 
a  froth,  and  mix  with  the  butter,  sugar,  &c. ;  flavour  the 
mixture,  and  fill  the  lined  tartlet-moulds.  Place  a  thin 
strip  of  paste  crossways  with  castor  sugar  and  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  from  fifteen  to  twenty  minutes. 

762.  Tartelettes  au  Chocolat. — Ingredients  for  paste 
for  lining  :  6  oz.  flour,  1  egg,  2  oz.  butter,  2  oz.  sugar, 
little  milk,  pinch  salt.  For  mixture  :  1^  oz.  butter, 
2  oz.  castor  sugar,  2  eggs,  raspberry  jam,  1^  oz.  grated 
(Caley's)  chocolate,  i  teaspoonful  cinnamon,  1  table- 
spoonful  fecule. 

Prepare  the  paste,  roll  out  and  line  some  tartlet- 
moulds,  put  a  teaspoonful  of  raspberry  jam  in  each. 
Make  the  mixture  as  follows :  Put  the  sugar  in  a 
basin,  add  the  butter,  and  stir  until  creamy ;  then  add 
one  yolk  of  egg,  the  chocolate  and  cinnamon,  beat  up 
the  2  whites  of  eggs,  and  mix  together  with  the  fecule  ; 
fill  up  the  tartlets  and  bake  in  a  moderately  heated 
oven.  Ice  over  the  top  with  chocolate  icing,  and  deco- 
rate with  royal  icing  to  taste. 

763.  Palace  Tartlets. — |  lb.  puff-paste,  ^  gill  cream, 
1  teaspoonful  Brown  &  Poison's  cornflour,  strawberry 
jam,  angelique,  cochmeal,  castor  sugar,  Curacoa, 
6  crystallised  strawberries. 

Roll  out  the  paste  to  ^  inch  in  thickness  ;  stamp 
out  with  a  cutter  six  star  shapes  (about  two  inches 
across),  and  with  a  small  round  cutter  cut  out  the 
centre  of  each.  Roll  out  the  trimmings  to  the  same 
thickness  ;  stamp  out  six  rounds  six  inches  in  diameter. 
Wet  a  baking-sheet,  place  the  rounds  neatly  upon  it, 
brush  them  over  with  egg,  turn  one  side  of  the  stars 
in  coarse   castor  sugar  and  put  one  on  each  of   the 


PASTRIES  (various),  CAKES,  TARTLETS,  &C.  679 

rounds,  the  sugar  side  up,  and  bake  to  a  nice  colour. 
Scoop  out  a  little  of  the  centre  whilst  warm.  Put 
three  dessert-spoonfuls  of  strawberry  jam  in  a  stewpan, 
add  2  oz.  of  castor  sugar,  ^  gill  of  water,  three  drops 
of  cochineal,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  Cura9oa  ;  let  it  boil 
for  a  few  seconds.  Moisten  ^  teaspoonful  of  cornflour 
and  add  and  stir  until  it  boils.  When  cool,  put  a 
dessert- spoonful  of  it  in  the  centre  of  the  stars,  decorate 
the  sides  with  white  or  pink  royal  icing  ;  whip  the 
€ream,  sweeten  slightly,  put  in  a  bag  or  cornet,  and 
dress  in  dome  shape  upon  the  tartlets.  Place  a 
crystallised  strawberry  on  the  top  of  the  cream, 
together  with  four  neatly- cut  angelique  leaves  and 
serve. 

764.  Tartelettes  a  la  St.  Cloud. — ^  lb.  short-crust, 
^  lb.  puff-paste,  ^  lb.  greengage  jam,  ^  gill  cream, 
glace  cherries  and  angelique,  vanilla  sugar,  castor 
sugar. 

Eoll  out  the  short-crust ;  line  six  to  eight  tartlet- 
pans,  brush  over  with  beaten  egg,  dust  with  sugar,  fill 
the  centre  with  greengage  jam,  previously  rubbed 
through  a  coarse  sieve  ;  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  from 
ten  to  fifteen  minutes.  Roll  out  the  puff-paste  about 
^  of  an  inch  think.  Stamp  out  some  rings  fully  J  inch 
smaller  in  diameter  than  the  tartlets,  brush  these  over 
with  milk,  turn  wet  side  on  to  castor  sugar,  and  put  on 
to  a  baking-sheet,  sugared  sides  upwards.  Bake  in  a 
quick  oven,  and  place  a  ring  on  each  of  the  baked 
tartlets.  When  cold,  fill  the  centre  with  whipped 
■cream,  flavoured  with  vanilla  sugar.  Place  a  glace 
cherry  in  the  centre  of  each,  finish  with  a  few  strips 
of  cut  angelique,  and  serve  on  a  folded  napkin. 

765.  Dames  d'Honneur  (Maids  of  Honour). — 2  oz. 
of  Jordan  almonds,  4  oz.  of  castor  sugar,  2  yolks  of 
eggs,  g  oz.  Paisley  flour,  2  tablespoonfuls  of  cream, 
1  tablespoonful  of  orange-flower  water,  puff-paste  for 
lining. 

Blanch,  peel  and  dry  the  almonds,  put  them  in  a 
mortar  and   pound  with  the  castor   sugar  until  fine, 


680  RECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

add  the  yolks  of  eggs  one  by  one,  mix  in  the  cream ^ 
the  orange-flower  water,  and  the  Paisley  flour.  Line 
some  tartlet-moulds  with  the  pufi:'-paste,  put  in  the 
mixture,  and  bake  in  a  moderately  heated  oven. 

766.  Petits  Gateaux  Pithiviers. — J  lb.  almonds 
peeled,  ^  lb.  castor  sugar,  a  few  sprigs  crystaUised 
orange  flower,  1  tablespoonful  of  cream,  ^  lb.  fresh 
butter,  1  teaspoonful  chopped  lemon-peel,  1  whole  and 
2  whites  of  eggs,  about  ^  lb.  puff-paste. 

Pound  the  almonds  in  a  mortar  together  with  the 
orange  flower  ;  when  quite  fine,  add  the  cream,  lemon- 
peel,  and  2  whites  of  eggs.  Put  the  sugar  into  a  basin^ 
cream  the  butter  with  the  sugar,  add  the  whole  egg, 
and  work  until  thoroughly  incorporated ;  now  add  the 
pounded  almonds  and  work  until  smooth.  EoU  out 
the  pufl'-paste,  stamp  out  some  rounds  about  3^  inches 
in  diameter ;  stamp  out  rings  of  paste  J  of  an  mch 
wide  and  fix  on  the  rounds  to  form  the  border,  and  fill 
with  the  mixture  ;  place  a  few  strips  of  paste  crossways, 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven ;  when  nearly  done  dust  with 
sugar  and  finish  baking. 

767.  Dartois  aux  Abricots  Meringue. — Roll  out 
some  puft'-paste  about  three  inches  wide,  trim  off  the 
edges,  place  it  on  a  baking-sheet,  and  bake  for  ten 
minutes. 

Spread  with  warm  a.pricot  marmalade ;  have  ready  a 
meringue  mixture,  put  it  in  a  forcmg-bag  with  a  plain 
tube,  put  it  m  the  shape  of  ribbons  across  the  layer  of 
marmalade,  so  as  to  form  a  lattice-work  pattern.  Dredge 
with  sugar,  place  halves  of  glace  cherry  and  small 
pieces  of  angelique  alternately  in  the  centre  of  the 
patterns.  Bake  m  a  cool  oven  for  ten  minutes  just 
long  enough  to  dry,  cut  into  convenient  finger  shapes, 
and  serve  cold-. 

768.  Gateaux  de  Brioche  a  la  Francaise. — 1  lb.  flour 
(sifted),  ^Ib.  oiled  butter,  ^  oz.  yeast,  ^  oz.  castor  sugar, 
7  eggs,  a  pinch  of  salt,  ^  gil  milk. 

Take  4  oz.  of  the  flour,  make  a  well  in  the  centre^ 


PASTRIES    (various),    CAKES,    TARTLETS,    &C.     681 

put  in  the  salt,  yeast,  and  the  milk  (made  tepid),  and 
work  it  into  a  smooth  dough  ;  knead  well,  put  it  in  a  basin, 
and  let  stand  to  rise  in  a  warm  closet  for  about  half-an- 
hour.  Put  the  butter  in  the  remainder  of  the  flour,  add 
the  sugar,  a  tablespoonful  of  warm  water,  and  mix 
thoroughly  with  3  eggs.  Knead  well,  add  2  more  eggs, 
work  again,  and  then  add  2  more ;  beat  well  for  ten 
minutes,  or  longer,  until  a  smooth  batter  is  obtained. 
When  the  sponge  or  dough  has  sufficiently  risen,  mix 
it  with  the  batter,  knead  it  thoroughly,  put  it  in  a 
floured  basin,  and  let  it  stand  in  a  warm  place  for  two 
hours  ;  the  paste  should  rise  to  twice  the  original  size. 
Take  about  a  sixth  part  of  the  paste  for  forming  the 
heads  ;  divide  this  into  10  or  12  pieces,  and  form  into 
balls,  flatten  them,  make  a  hole  in  the  centre,  place 
them  on  a  buttered  baking-tin,  roll  the  remaining 
paste  into  little  balls,  and  place  one  in  the  centre  of 
each,  fixing  with  a  little  water.  Stand  them  in  a  warm 
place  to  prove  ;  brush  over  with  beaten  egg,  and  bake 
in  a  moderately  heated  oven.  They  will  take  rather 
more  than  half-an-hour.  Dust  with  vanilla  sugar,  and 
serve  cold. 

An  excellent  brioche  paste  can  be  made  by  using  ^  lb. 
of  ordinary  flour  and  ^  lb.  of  Coombs'  self-raising  flour, 
in  place  of  the  pound  of  flour  given  in  this  recipe ;  the 
use  of  yeast  is  then  dispensed  with. 

769.  Gateaux  Mille-feuilles. — |  lb.  puff-paste,  2  table- 
spoonfuls  red-currant  jelly,  2  tablespoonfuls  apricot 
marmalade,  2  tablespoonfuls  raspberry  jam,  2  table- 
spoonfuls  orange  marmalade,  J  lb.  prepared  fondant 
sugar,  2  oz.  chopped  pistachio  kernels. 

Give  the  puff-paste  five  turns,  cut  it  into  five  parts, 
one  part  being  somewhat  thicker  than  the  four  others. 
Roll  out  the  four  to  a  thickness  of  about  |-  inch,  and 
place  them  on  a  baking- sheet  separately.  Roll  out  the 
thicker  part  about  ^  inch  in  thickness,  and  place  on  a 
baking- sheet.  Bake  all  five  in  a  moderate  oven  for 
about  thirty  minutes  ;  glaze  the  thickest  part  with  sugar 
to  form  the  cover.     When  sufficiently  cool,  spread  over 


682  RECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

each  surface  of  the  four  thinnest  parts  separately  with 
the  marmalade  and  jam  ;  place  one  on  top  of  the  other, 
cover  with  tlie  thickest  part,  mask  the  cover  with  fondant 
sugar,  sprinkle  with  chopped  pistachio  kernels.  Cut  the 
sides  even  with  a  sharp  knife,  ornament  the  top  with 
various  coloured  marmalades  and  jam.  Serve  it  whole, 
or  cut  into  even-sized  slices.  This  gateau  may  be  made 
in  round  or  oblong  shape ;  the  edges  should  in  either 
case  be  cut,  when  finished,  for  serving. 

770.  Gateau  a  la  Beatrice. — |  lb.  castor  sugar,  8  eggs, 
^  gill  Maraschino,  2  oz.  ground  almonds,  6  oz.  butter, 
1  glass  Kirsch,  J  lb.  ground  rice,  3  tablespoonfuls  apricot 
jam,  1  tablespoonful  red-currant  jelly,  a  few  pistachios 
or  almonds. 

Put  the  sugar  in  a  copper  egg-bowl,  break  the  eggs, 
add,  and  beat  over  a  very  slow  fire  for  fifteen  to  twenty 
minutes  ;  then  add  the  almonds,  the  ground  rice,  the 
butter  (slightly  warmed),  and  the  liqueur ;  mix  the 
whole  gently.  Butter  and  flour  a  round  pudding -mould, 
fill  in  the  mixture,  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  for 
thirty  to  thirty-five  minutes.  When  done,  turn  out  of 
the  mould  and  glaze  over  whilst  warm  with  some  apricot 
jam,  previously  reduced  with  a  little  syrup  and  strained. 
When  the  coating  is  set,  put  some  red-currant  jelly  into 
a  paper  cornet,  cut  the  point,  and  ornament  the  top  in 
shape  of  a  crown  and  a  B  underneath.  Garnish  with 
a  few  peeled  pistachios,  and  serve  on  a  round  dish  with 
lace  paper. 

771.  Gateau  a  la  Portugaise. — ^  lb.  almonds  (peeled), 
1^  orange,  j  lb.  castor  sugar,  3  whole  eggs,  1  oz.  fecule, 
glace  royale,  crystallised  cherries,  and  angelique. 

Cream  the  sugar  and  yolks  of  eggs  in  a  basin,  pound 
the  almonds  in  a  mortar,  incorporate  the  juice  of  oranges 
and  peelings  finely  chopped.  Work  well  in  the  mortar 
for  a  few  minutes  ;  work  this  mixture  in  with  the  sugar 
and  yolks  of  eggs,  and  add  the  fecule.  Beat  the  whites 
of  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  and  mix  gently  with  the  mixture, 
and  fill  into  an  oblong  mould  well  buttered  ;  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven  for  half-an-hour  or  more.     Turn  out  on 


PASTRIES    (various),    CAKES,    TARTLETS,    &C.     683 

a  sieve  to  cool,  glaze  neatly  with  a  coating  of  glace 
royale,  ornament  with  crystallised  cherries  and  angelique. 
Serve  whole  or  cut  into  slices. 

772.  Tranches  a  la  Neige. — |  lb.  butter,  ^  lb.  castor 
sugar,  ^  lb.  flour,  2  oz.  icing  sugar,  2  oz.  ground  almonds, 
J  rind  lemon  peel,  4  yolks  of  eggs,  6  whites  of  eggs. 

Work  the  butter  with  the  egg-yolks  and  castor  sugar; 
add  the  flour,  beat  up  4  whites  of  eggs,  and  mix  gently 
with  the  mixture ;  bake  in  a  flat  oblong  buttered  tin, 
ivhisk  the  2  remaining  whites  of  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  mix 
with  them  sugar,  ground  almonds,  and  lemon  peel. 
Spread  over  the  surface  thickly,  cut  in  convenient  slices. 
Shape  neatly,  and  bake  quickly  a  light  yellow.  Dust 
with  sugar  before  baking.  Fruit  jam  can  be  spread 
thinly  over  the  cake  before  the  snow  is  added. 

773.  Meringues  (Shells). — J  lb.  sifted  sugar,  6  whites 
of  eggs. 

Whisk  the  whites  of  eggs  in  an  egg-bowl  until  they 
represent  a  stiff  froth ;  mix  them  with  the  sugar  lightly ; 
be  careful  not  to  work  the  batter  too  much  in  mixing, 
otherwise  the  froth  will  become  too  soft  for  shap- 
ing. The  preparation  is  then  ready  for  moulding  the 
•desired  shapes  of  meringues  ;  this  may  be  eflected  with 
a  spoon,  with  a  cornet,  or  piping-bag.  Place  some 
foolscap  paper  on  a  baking  sheet,  or  on  a  board  about 
J  of  an  inch  thick,  shape  the  meringues  on  it  in  rows, 
keep  them  about  an  inch  apart  from  each  other,  dust 
them  with  sifted  sugar,  place  them  in  a  very  moderate 
oven  for  about  2  hours.  When  done,  take  u]3  each 
meringue,  break  in  the  bottom  carefully  with  your 
thumb,  put  back  on  the  baking-sheet,  and  allow  them 
to  dry  overnight  in  a  warm  place. 

774.  Meringues  au  Citron. — Proceed  as  before ;  add 
the  rind  of  half  a  lemon  finely  chopped,  and  mixed  with 
the  sugar ;  when  baked  and  cool,  fill  with  whipped 
cream  slightly  sweetened. 

775.  Meringues  aux  Amandes. — Proceed  as  before, 
adding  ^  lb.  peeled,  dried,  and  pounded  almonds  along 
with  the  suga,r,  and  proceed  as  previously  described. 


684  KECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

776.  Mering^ues  aux  Pistaches.  —  J  lb.  pistachio 
kernels,  peeled,  dried,  and  pounded  with  2  whites  of  eggs  ; 
make  a  stiff  froth  of  5  whites  of  eggs,  and  mix  with 
J  lb.  sugar  ;  whisk  all  over  the  fire  until  it  becomes  luke- 
warm, take  oft' and  whisk  until  it  becomes  cold,  then  add 
the  pistachios,  and  mix  carefully.  Shape  the  meringues 
and  bake.  If  liked,  2  oz.  ground  almonds  and  2  oz.  pis- 
tachios may  be  used  in  place  of  the  4  oz.  of  pistachios. 

777.  Genoise  Paste. —  5  whole  eggs,  4  oz.  sifted 
sugar,  3  oz.  flour,  dried  and  sifted,  2  oz.  warmed 
butter. 

Separate  the  whites  of  eggs  from  the  yolks,  place 
the  whites  in  a  copper  egg-bowl  and  the  yolks  in  a 
round  basin ;  to  the  latter  add  the  sugar,  and  work  them 
well  with  a  wooden  spoon  for  about  five  minutes.  Beat 
the  whites  to  a  stiff  froth,  mix  the  flour  and  butter,  and 
whisk  lightly  with  the  yolks,  to  incorporate  the  ingredi- 
ents ;  the  mixture  will  then  be  ready  for  pouring  into 
buttered  and  floured  tins,  sheets,  fancy  moulds,  &c. 

Note. — In  making  Genoise  Paste,  the  quantity  of 
eggs  used  should  always  represent  two  parts  in  weight 
to  one  of  either,  so  that  an  ounce  of  butter,  an  egg,  and 
an  ounce  of  flour  added  extra  to  the  above  quantities 
will  not  matter  much. 

778.  Genoise  au  Chocolat.— Prepare  the  same  mix- 
ture as  given  for  plain  Genoise,  but  incorporate  with 
the  yolks  and  sugar  2  oz.  ground  almonds  and  1  oz. 
grated  chocolate. 

779.  Genoise  au  Cafe. — Add  a  dessert-spoonful  of  best 
coffee  extract,  with  the  yolks  of  eggs  and  sugar,  and 
prepare  the  same  mixture  with  the  given  ingredients  as 
for  Genoise. 

780.  Genoise  decoree. — Prepare  the  Genoise  mixture 
(any  flavour),  and  put  into  a  square  baking- sheet ;  if  you 
do  not  have  one  with  the  sides  turned  up  all  round, 
fasten  a  piece  of  wood  across  the  part  which  is  open,  to 
keep  the  mixture  from  running  oft'.  Bake  it  in  a  quick 
oven  to  a  nice  yellow  colour,  cut  it  into  fancy  or  plain 
shapes,  put  them  to  dry,  then  glaze  them  with  different 


PASTRIES    (various),    CAKES,    TARTLETS,    &C.     685- 

coloured  fondant  or  glace  royale  ;  when  dry,  ornament 
with  apple  and  red-currant  jelly. 

781.  Dominos. — Genoese  pastry,  |  lb.  icing  sugar,. 
X  white  of  egg,  apricot  marmalade,  desiccated  cocoanut 
or  almonds,  brown  vegetable  colouring. 

Cut  the  pastry  into  shapes  of  dominos,  coat  the  sides 
with  a  thin  layer  of  marmalade,  and  dip  into  finely 
chopped  desiccated  cocoanut  or  almonds.  Prepare 
some  royal  icing  with  the  white  of  egg  and  sugar,  and 
coat  the  top  of  each  domino  with  this.  Put  them  aside, 
to  set.  Add  sufficient  brown  colouring  to  the  remainder 
of  the  icing,  put  it  in  a  forcing-bag  or  paper  cornet. 
Mark  out  a  thin  line  to  divide  each  domino,  and  force 
out  little  dots  to  make  them  resemble  dominos. 

782.  Biscuits  de  Bordeaux.— 2  oz.  butter,  2  oz. 
castor  sugar,  8  oz.  flour,  1  egg,  1  teaspoonful  orange 
juice,  1  small  glass  old  port  wine,  a  pinch  of  salt, 
ground  cinnamon. 

Cream  the  butter  and  sugar  together,  add  the  egg: 
and  flour  and  the  other  ingredients,  knead  into  a  firm 
paste,  roll  out  on  a  floured  board  about  ^  of  an  inch 
thick.  Cut  out  some  oblong  pieces  2  in.  long  by  |  in. 
wide,  place  them  on  a  floured  baking-sheet,  prick  them 
over  with  a  fork,  and  bake  in  a  well-heated  oven. 

783.  Biscuits  au  Cognac. — |  lb.  flour,  3  whites  of 
eggs,  i  gill  cream,  ^  gill  brandy,  li  oz.  castor  sugar,  a 
pinch  of  salt,  1  tablespoonful  milk. 

Sift  the  flour  on  to  a  board,  add  the  salt  and  sugar ; 
mix  a  tablespoonful  of  milk  with  the  whites  of  eggs, 
and  pour  into  a  well  in  the  centre  of  the  flour,  together 
with  the  brandy  and  cream.  Work  the  whole  into  a 
smooth  paste,  and  roll  out  very  thin  on  a  floured  board. 
Stamp  out  some  rounds  with  a  tin  cutter,  prick  them 
over  with  a  fork,  and  bake  on  a  floured  sheet  in  a  quick 
oven. 

784.  Opera  Biscuits.  —  6  oz.  Coombs'  self-raising 
flour,  6  oz.  castor  sugar,  4  oz.  ground  almonds,  4  oz. 
glace  cherries,  1  oz.  pistachio  kernels.  5  eggs,  8  drops, 
vanilla  essence. 


686  RECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

Put  the  sugar  into  a  basin,  add  the  eggs  one  at  a 
time,  and  work  to  a  hght  cream.  Sift  the  flour,  and 
work  in  Hghtly.  Blanch  the  pistachios,  peel,  and  chop 
small ;  cut  the  cherries  into  small  pieces,  and  add  both 
to  the  mixture,  together  with  the  almonds  and  vanilla 
essence.  Put  the  mixture  into  a  forcing-bag,  with  a 
large  plain  tube.  Squeeze  out  some  drops  on  to  a 
greased  tin  about  the  size  of  a  halfpenny-piece  ;  dust 
over  with  fine  sugar,  and  bake  in  a  moderately-heated 
oven.  When  done,  remove  from  the  tin  on  to  a  sieve, 
and  serve  when  cold. 

785.  Cocoanut  Biscuits. — i  lb.  cocoanut  (desiccated 
or  freshly  grated),  the  whites  of  3  eggs,  1|  oz.  potato 
flour  or  cornflour,  4  oz.  castor  sugar,  wafer  paper  or 
rice  paper. 

Beat  up  the  whites  of  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth,  thoroughly 
mix  the  sugar,  cocoanut,  and  flour.  Stir  into  the  whites, 
mix  carefully  with  a  w^ooden  spoon.  Drop  the  mixture 
in  little  heaps,  about  ^  inch  apart,  on  wafer  or  rice 
paper  laid  on  to  a  baking- sheet.  Bake  in  a  very  slow 
oven.  This  mixture  may  now  be  laid  out  for  baking  by 
means  of  a  biscuit  or  forcing-bag,  but  where  only  a 
small  quantity  is  required,  this  mode  of  dressing  is  not 
advisable. 

786.  Biscuits  a  I'Africaine.  —  4  oz.  castor  sugar, 
4  oz.  flour,  4  oz.  butter,  2  oz.  Brown  &  Poison's  cornflour, 
3  eggs,  3  oz.  desiccated  cocoanut,  a  little  milk. 

Rub  the  flour  and  butter  together  until  very  fine, 
add  the  cornflour,  sugar,  and  2  oz.  of  the  cocoanut. 
Mix  thoroughly,  make  a  well  in  the  centre,  beat  up  the 
eggs,  and  add  them,  work  into  a  smooth  dough  ;  roll 
out  about  ^  inch  thick,  cut  or  stamp  out  some 
oblong  biscuit  shapes  or  fingers,  place  them  on  a 
buttered  baking-sheet,  brush  over  with  a  little  sweetened 
milk  and  egg^  sprinkle  some  cocoanut  over  the  top  of 
each.  Bake  in  a  moderately-heated  oven  for  about 
tw^enty  minutes.  If  the  paste  is  found  too  stiff,  a  little 
milk  or  cream  should  be  added. 

787.  Bonne    Bouche    Drops. — 3  oz.    Vienna  flour, 


PASTRIES    (various),    CAKES,    TARTLETS,    &C.     687 

1  oz.  Paisley  flour,  1  egg,  1  tablespoonful  cream,  ^  lemon, 
1^  oz.  sugar,  1^  oz.  butter,  salt,  ^  oz.  almonds. 

Cream  the  sugar  and  butter  in  a  basin,  add  the  egg 
and  the  lemon  rind  finely  grated.  Beat  with  a  wooden 
spoon  until  quite  smooth.  Mix  the  Vienna  flour  and 
Paisley  flour,  add  a  pinch  of  salt,  and  rub  through  a 
sieve.  Stir  the  flour  into  the  above  mixture,  moisten 
with  a  little  cream  at  first,  work  it  thoL'oughly  and  add 
the  remainder  of  the  cream.  Blanch  the  almonds,  cut 
them  into  shreds,  and  dry  in  the  oven.  Mix  about  a 
teaspoonful  of  lemon  juice  and  the  shredded  almonds 
with  the  dough.  Drop  the  mixture  in  little  heaps 
about  1^  inches  apart  from  each  other  on  to  a  well- 
buttered  baking-tin,  dust  over  with  a  little  castor  sugar, 
and  bake  in  a  moderately-heated  oven  from  15  to  20 
minutes. 

788.  Biscuit  a  la  Cuillere. —  8  eggs,  i  lb.  castor 
sugar,  6  oz.  flour,  sifted  (or  4  oz.  fecule). 

Separate  the  yolks  from  the  whites  of  eggs.  Put  the 
yolks  in  a  basin  with  the  sugar,  and  stir  with  a  wooden 
spoon  or  spatula  until  quite  smooth  and  creamy.  Whisk 
the  whites  of  eggs  to  a  stiff  froth  (add  a  pinch  of  salt 
before  beginning  to  whisk).  Work  the  flour  and  whites 
of  eggs  in  small  quantities  into  the  creamed  yolks  (if  the 
eggs  are  small  it  will  not  require  more  than  5  oz.  flour). 
Fill  a  forcing-bag  three-parts  full  with  the  mixture,  and 
with  a  plain  pipe  (^-inch)  press  out  the  paste  on  to  a 
baking- sheet,  covered  with  white  paper,  in  the  shape  of 
fingers  about  3  inches  long ;  keep  them  about  an  inch 
apart.  Proceed  thus  until  the  mixture  is  used  up. 
Dust  over  with  castor  sugar.  Bake  in  a  moderately- 
heated  oven  a  golden  colour.  Let  them  cool  on  the 
paper,  and  remove  carefully  with  a  palette  knife.  Pack 
into  an  air-tight  tin,  and  use  as  required. 

789.  Pain  Perdu. — |  stale  tin-loaf,  1  quart  milk, 
1  pod  of  vanilla,  2  eggs,  ^  teaspoonful  ground  cinnamon, 
castor  sugar,  frying  lard  or  clarified  butter. 

Cut  the  bread  into  slices  about  ^  inch  thick,  trim 
off  the  crust,  cut  into  fancy  shapes,  round,  diamond,  or 


688  RECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

half-moons.  Put  the  milk  in  a  stewpan,  add  the  vanilla, 
sweeten  to  taste,  and  boil  up.  When  nearly  cold, 
pour  over  the  pieces  of  bread  and  let  them  soak.  Beat 
up  two  whites  and  one  yolk  of  eggs,  add  a  pinch  of  salt, 
immerse  the  pieces  of  bread  and  fry  in  hot  butter  or 
lard  to  a  light  colour,  drain  on  paper  or  cloth,  sprinkle 
w^ith  castor  sugar  in  which  the  ground  cinnamon  has 
been  amalgamated.  Dish  up  in  a  pile  and  serve  vnih 
a  boat  of  custard,  made  with  the  remaining  yolk  of  egg, 
the  milk,  and  a  teaspoonful  of  cornflour. 

790.  Pulled  Bread. — Procure  a  few  French  rolls, 
cut  off  the  crust,  pull  the  crumby  part  into  rough  pieces, 
sprinkle  over  with  a  little  warm  milk,  place  the  pieces 
on  a  baking-tin,  and  bake  in  a  very  slow  oven  until 
crisp  and  of  a  pretty  golden  colour. 

791.  Crime  Patissiere  (Confectioner's  Custard). — 
^  pint  milk,  4  oz.  sugar,  4  yolks  of  eggs,  J  oz.  potato 
flour  (fecule  de  pommes  de  terre),  3  sheets  French 
gelatine,  flavouring  essence. 

Boil  the  milk,  add  the  sugar  and  flavouring.  Beat 
the  yolks  of  eggs  with  the  fecule,  pour  gradually  the  hot 
milk  on  to  this,  and  stir  over  a  slow  fire  until  it  begins 
to  thicken.  Dissolve  the  gelatine  and  mix  with  the 
above,  strain  through  a  fine  sieve,  let  cool,  and  use  as 
directed. 

792.  Feuilletage  (Puff-paste). —1  lb.  flour,  ^  oz. 
salt,  1  lb.  butter,  about  ^  pint  water,  1  teaspoonful 
lemon  juice. 

Sift  the  flour  on  to  the  pastry  slab,  add  the  salt, 
make  a  well  in  the  centre,  put  in  sufficient  cold  v^^ater 
and  the  lemon  juice  to  form  a  smooth  paste,  working 
in  at  the  same  time  a  little  butter  about  the  size  of  a- 
walnut.  Knead  the  paste  as  little  as  possible,  and  allow 
it  to  stand  for  a  few  minutes  before  working  in  the 
remainder  of  the  butter. 

Wash  the  butter  in  iced  water,  knead  it  in  a  wet 
cloth,  and  shape  into  a  flat  square.  Pioll  out  the  paste 
into  a  square  about  twice  the  size  of  the  butter ;  the 
sides  of  the  paste  should  be  rolled  somewhat  thinner 


PASTRIES    (various),    CAKES,    TARTLETS,    &C.     689 

than  the  centre.  Put  the  butter  in  the  centre  of  the 
paste,  fold  in  the  four  sides,  so  as  to  completely 
envelope  the  butter.  Roll  out  very  gently  and  in  one 
direction  only,  and  fold  in  three ;  this  is  called  the 
first  turn.  Keep  the  paste  in  a  cool  place  and  repeat 
rolling  and  folding  it  as  before  three  or  four  times, 
allowing  the  paste  to  cool  for  at  least  10  minutes 
between  each  turn.  The  paste  is  then  ready  for 
use. 

793.  Pate  Nouille  (Nouille  Paste).  —  Proceed  the 
same  as  described  in  No.  126,  omitting  the  grated 
cheese. 

794.  Pate  a  Pouplin. — J  lb.  butter,  1  pint  water, 
1  lemon,  J  lb.  flour,  2  eggs,  pinch  of  salt. 

Put  the  butter,  lemon  peel  finely  chopped,  water, 
and  salt  in  a  stewpan  to  boil ;  then  add  a  good  |  lb.  of 
sifted  flour.  The  pate  must  be  very  stiff  and  worked 
over  the  fire  until  the  flour  is  cooked.  Then  add  two  or 
three  eggs,  and  set  to  cool  for  use. 

795.  Pate  a  Choux  (for  Sweet  Dishes). — J  lb.  butter, 
1  pint  water,  1  lemon,  2  oz.  sugar,  a  pinch  of  salt,  2  or  3 
eggs,  4  oz.  flour. 

Put  the  water,  butter,  lemon  peel  finely  chopped, 
sugar,  and  salt  in  a  stewpan  on  the  fire,  and  when  on 
boiling  point  stir  in  sufficient  flour  to  form  a  stiff  paste, 
and  work  over  the  fire  till  the  flour  is  cooked.  When  a 
little  cool  add  two  or  three  eggs. 

796.  Macaroon  Paste.  —  4  oz.  ground  almonds, 
I  lb.  castor  sugar,  3  whites  of  eggs,  3  drops  almond 
essence. 

Pound  almonds  and  sugar  in  a  mortar  ;  add  the 
whites  of  eggs  one  at  a  time ;  pound  well  so  as  to 
thoroughly  mix  it  ;  last  of  all,  add  the  essence,  and  use 
as  required.  If  placed  in  a  jar  and  covered  it  will  keep 
good  for  some  time. 

797.  Pate  d'Amandes  (Almond  Paste). — 1^  lb.  lump 
sugar,  saffron,  1  gill  water,  3  drops  almond  essence, 
I  lb.  ground  almonds,  1  egg. 

Put  sugar  and  water  in  a  copper  pan  ;  when  dissolved 


690  RECHERCHE    COOKERY. 

place  on  the  fire  and  let  boil  to  the  small  blow  degree  ;  add 
the  almonds  and  essence,  also  saftron  to  give  it  a  yellow 
tint ;  tm'n  on  a  slab  and  work  in  one  whole  egg ;  work 
to  a  soft  paste. 

798.  Pate  a  la  Madeleine.— 1  lb.  flour,  |  lb.  butter, 
1  lb.  castor  sugar,  1  teaspoonful  orange-flower  water, 
the  juice  and  rind  of  |  a  lemon,  6  eggs. 

Sift  the  flour  and  put  it  with  the  sugar  and  butter 
(previously  oiled)  in  a  stewpan  ;  add  the  orange-flower 
water,  lemon  juice,  and  the  lemon  rind  finely  chopped. 
Work  in  the  yolks  of  eggs  ;  beat  the  whites  to  snow  and 
incorporate  with  the  mixture. 

799.  Pate  a  la  Duchesse. — 1  pint  cream,  2  oz. 
castor  sugar,  ^  lb.  butter,  1  teaspoonful  orange-flower 
water,  a  pinch  of  salt,  flour,  2  or  3  eggs. 

Put  the  cream,  sugar,  butter,  orange-flower  water, 
and  salt  in  a  stewpan  and  when  on  boiling-point  stir  in 
enough  sifted  flour  to  form  a  dry  paste,  and  work  over 
the  fire  till  the  flour  is  cooked.  When  a  little  cool,  add 
two  or  three  eggs. 

800.  Glace  Royale. — Put  a  white  of  egg  into  a  basin, 
stir  with  a  wooden  spoon,  and  add  gradually  about  a 
quarter  of  a  pound  of  fine  icing  sugar ;  work  it 
thoroughly,  adding  a  few  drops  of  lemon  juice  at  the 
last.  It  must  be  worked  until  the  whole  presents 
a  thick  and  yet  a  liquid  shiny  substance,  which 
must  be  perfectly  white.  To  ice  a  cake,  the  surface  of 
the  same,  should  be  masked  with  the  glace  about  a 
quarter  of  an  inch  thick.  It  should  not  be  decorated 
until  the  coating  is  perfectly  set,  which  is  best 
effected  by  placing  the  cake  for  a  few  minutes  in  a 
cool  oven,  keeping  the  cake  covered  with  a  piece  of 
paper. 

801.  Icing :  Petits  Fours,  Gateaux,  and  Small  Pastry. 
— Fondant  tor  Masking  Cakes  and  Gateaux. — 1|  lb. 
lump  sugar,  a  good  pinch  of  cream  of  tartar,  about  a  gill 
of  boiling  water. 

Put  the  sugar  into  a  copper  stewpan,  add  the  pinch 
of  cream  of  tartar,  pour  the  water  (boiling)  over,  and 


PASTRIES    (various),    CAKES,    TARTLETS,    ETC.     691 

let  stand  on  the  stove  until  the  sugar  is  quite  dissolved. 
Set  it  over  a  quick  fire  and  allow  it  to  boil  up  quickly  for 
a  few  minutes.  The  best  way  to  find  out  when  the 
sugar  has  boiled  sufficiently  is  to  try  the  heat  with  a 
thermometer,  which  should  register  240  degrees  for 
fondant  sugar.  Take  it  from  the  fire  and  rub  the 
syrup  with  a  wooden  spoon  against  the  sides  for  a 
minute  or  two.  After  it  has  stood  to  cool  for  a  few 
minutes,  sprinkle  a  few  drops  of  cold  water  over  the 
top  and  stir  until  it  becomes  a  white  or  creamy 
substance.  It  is  best  to  turn  it  into  an  earthenware 
basin  as  soon  as  it  is  done.  It  can  be  kept  for  a  long 
time  if  covered  over  with  a  thick  damp  cloth,  which 
should,  of  course,  be  changed  and  redamped  from  time 
to  time.  When  required  for  use  a  quantity  is  put  into 
a  stewpan  or  basin  and  stood  in  hot  water  over  the  fire, 
and  is  worked  until  it  is  fit  for  glazing.  A  little 
water  may  be  added  if  not  soft  enough.  In  order  to 
know  when  the  fondant  is  fit  for  use  it  should  be  just 
warm  enough  to  bear  the  finger  in  it.  Any  flavouring 
can  be  added  when  melted ;  use  always  the  best 
quaUty.  Chocolate  flavour  is  added  by  grating  a  small 
quantity  of  unsweetened  chocolate  or  cocoa  powder,  both 
of  which  should  be  previously  melted  before  it  is  added. 
For  coffee  flavour  use  extract  or  essence  of  coffee. 

802.  Glace  Fondante  au  Cafe  (Coffee  Icing). — Put  a 
pound  of  best  icing  sugar  or  very  fine  castor  sugar 
in  a  copper  pan,  add  about  a  gill  of  water  and  boil  it 
to  the  small  ball  degree  ;  turn  out  into  a  basin,  and 
work  with  a  spatula  until  it  becomes  creamy ;  flavour 
with  a  dessert- spoonful  of  best  coffee  essence.  Dip  in 
the  surface  of  the  gateaux  and  finish  as  directed.  It 
is  necessary  to  remember  that  if  fondant  icing  is  used 
too  warm  it  will  lose  its  briUiancy,  and  that  it  should 
be  stirred  until  it  has  reached  the  desired  consistency 
for  icing — in  other  words,  the  icing  point. 

803.  Beurre  au  Cafe  (Moka). — Coffee  Butter  for 
decorating  Pastry  and  Cakes. — |  lb.  fresh  butter,  4  oz. 
castor  sugar,  1  yolk  of  egg,  essence  of  coffee. 

44 


692 


RECHERCHE    COOKERY. 


Cream  the  sugar  and  yolk  of  egg  for  about  ten 
minutes  ;  add  a  few  drops  of  coffee  essence  or  very  strong 
freshly-made  coffee,  so  as  to  impart  a  flavour  of  coffee. 
Work  in  by  degrees  the  butter,  previously  put  in  a  warm 
place  to  make  it  soft.  When  sufficiently  worked,  put  it 
on  the  ice  for  a  few  minutes,  stir  again,  and  use  for 
garnish  by  means  of  a  forcing-bag  and  fancy  tube  or 
a  paper  cornet,  point  cut  according  to  requirement. 

804.  Short  Paste  (Pate  a  foncer).— 1  lb.  flour, 
^  lb.  butter,  a  pinch  of  salt,  about  ^  pint  water. 
Sift  the  flour,  add  the  salt,  rub  in  lightly  the  butter, 
moisten  with  sufficient  water  to  make  the  paste, 
knead  it  until  it  forms  a  smooth  paste.  Let  it  rest  in 
a  cool  place  for  about  an  hour  before  using  it. 

For  fruit  pie-crust,  tartlets,  &c.,  add  an  ounce  of 
castor  sugar  and  two  to  three  yolks  of  eggs,  proceed- 
ing in  the  same  manner,  using  enough  water  to  work 
the  ingredients  into  a  smooth  but  not  too  firm  a  paste. 

805.  Vanilla  Sugar. — Split  some  vanilla  pod,  cut 
it  up  into  small  pieces,  and  pound  in  a  mortar  with 
a  quantity  of  castor  sugar  (2  lb.  of  sugar  to  1  oz.  of 
vanilla)  ;  when  fine,  pass  through  a  sieve,  and  keep 
in  a  well-closed  tin  or  jar. 

806.  Boiling  Sugar  to  various  degrees  (La 
Cuisson  du  Sucre). 

Table  SHOwixti  the  Exact  Eegister  ox  the  Sacchaeo- 
METER  IN  English  and  French. 


I,  Small  Thread 
II.  Large  Thread 

III.  Little  Pearl 

IV.  Large  Pearl 
V.  Small  Blow 

VI.  Small  Ball 

VII.  Large  Ball 

VIII.  Small  Crack 

IX.  Large  Crack 

X.  Caramel    . 


Degi'ees  of 
Fahreuheit 
.  215  . 
.  217  . 
.  220  . 
.  222  . 
.  230  . 
.  237  . 
,  247  . 
.  290  . 
.  312  . 
.     350     . 


Degrees 
Ceutigrarle 
Petit  Filet  ou  Lisse     101 


Grrand  Lisse 
Petit  Perle 
Grand  Perle 
Petit  Souffle 
Petit  Boule 
Grand  Boule 
Petit  Casse 
Grand  Casse 
Caramel  . 


102 

105 

106 

110 

114^ 

119J 

143 

154 

175 


RECHERCHE   COOKERY  INDEX. 


BEEF  (DU  BCEUF). 


Aloyau  a  la  Godard 

49G 

Filets  a  TAthenienne      . 

423 

„      a  la  Brillat  Savariu 

498 

„        „    Chateaubriand 

426 

„        „    Dauphine 

432 

„        „    Garibaldi 

425 

„        „    Louis  XV. 

497 

„        ,,    Metropole 

499 

,,        „    Eegni^re 

422 

„        „    Vieiinoise 

424 

„      Mignons,  Beauffremout 

431 

Gullascli  (Hungarian  dish)    . 

407 

Porterhouse  Steak  a  la  GoufE6 

427 

Roulade  a,  la  Norvegieune 

377 

Sirloin,  to  carve 

519 

Touruedos  a  la  Madeleine 

430 

„          Moscovienne 

429 

„         a  la  Napoleon 

428 

ELEMENTARY  METHODS  A 

XD 

RULES. 

Almonds,  to  peel     .        .        .       . 

36 

Aromatic  Spice,  Herbs,  and  Plants 

1 

Batter  for  Irving     . 

38 

Boning  Poultry  and  Game     . 

19 

Bouquet  Garni 

3 

Braiser,  to  braise    . 

14 

Breadcrumbs,  fried 

516 

Brine  (Saumure)     . 

30 

Butter,  to  clarify    . 

28 

Caramel,  Liquid 

29 

Choux  Paste    .... 

39 

Cooking  Meat,  hints 

13 

Cold  Meat,  to  warm  up  . 

16 

Cream,  to  whip 

34 

Dry  Pickling  .... 

31 

Egg,  Liaison    .... 

8 

Egging  and  Cnunbing   . 

37 

Fat,  to  clarify 

26 

Flavouring  and  Seasoning     . 

1 

Fried  Parsley  .... 

4 

Frying  in  Fat  or  Oil 

27 

Glace^GIace  de  Viande 

39a 

Hints  on  Carving   . 

.517a 

Hints  on  boiling  Vegetables  . 

23 

Liaisons  in  general 

8 

Marinade         .... 

,      32 

Marinade  Pickle 

.       33 

Mask,  to  ( Moulds,  &c.)  . 

.      21 

Measures  and  Weights  . 

.      40 

Meat  Glace      .... 

39a 

Mirepoix          .... 

.      11 

JIushrooms,  to  chop 

7 

Kouille  Paste  .... 

.     793 

KO. 

Onions,  to  chop       ....  6 

Panade     9 

Pancake  Batter       .        .        .        .627 

Parsley,  to  chop      ....  5 

Pepper  and  Salt      ....  2 

Pickle  for  Beef  and  Pork        .        .  30 

Pistachios,  to  peel  ....  36 
Plucking  Birds        .        .        .        .18 

Poultry  and  Game,  boning    .        .  19 

Puff  Paste 792 

Rice,  to  blanch        .        .        .        .  i5 

Roux 10 

Salpicon 12 

Salt,  a  pinch  of       ....  2 

Sauter 15 

Sugar  Boiling,  Register  .  .  806 
Sweetbread,  to  blanch  .  .  .416 
Table  showing  time   required  for 

roasting  Meat,  &c.  ...  20 

Table  of  "Weights  and  Measures     .  40 

Unmould,  to 22 

Vegetables,  to  blanch     ...  24 

White  of  Eggs,  to  whisk        .        .  35 

COLD  SERVICE. 

EXTOEES  AND  SeCOXD  COUE.-^E  DXSHES. 

Aspic  de  Foie-gras  a  la  Diplomate  391 

Bombes  a  I'Alsacienne    .        .        .  393 

Bordure  de  Lievi-e  a  la  Berg^re     .  397 

Carre  d'Agneau,  Bohemieune         .  500 

Chartreuse  de  Faisan  a  la  Balmoral  387 

Chaufroid  de  Cotelettes  d'Agneau  395 

„          de  PerdreauK         .        .  386 

„          de  Sole  a  la  Capucinne  .  372 

„  deVolaille      .        .        .379 

Cotelettes  d'Agneau  a  la  Danzig  .  374 

„         de  Homard  en  Aspic      .  362 

„         de  Mouton  a  la  Vallorbe  376 

Cremes  a  I'Ecarlate  (Petites)         .  383 

Crimes  de  Faisan  (Petites)     .        .  388 

„      de  Volaille  en  Tomates      .  380 

Croustades  a  la  Milanaise       .        .  396 

Darioles  de  Saumon  a  la  Mosco- 

vienne 366 

„       deVolaille  en  Chaudfoid  384 

„       de  Foie-gras  a  la  Vatel    .  392 

Darnes  de  Saumon  a  la  Ravigote  .  365 

Filets  de  Sole  en  Aspic    .        .        .369 

„        „        „      Chaudfoid     .        .  372 

„        „        „      Fers  a  Cheval      .  373 

„        „  Truite  a  la  Mayonnaise  .  371 

Fleurettes  de  Turbot  a  la  HoUan- 

daise 364 


694 


RECHERCHE    COOKERY 


Cold  Skkvice— cow/.  no. 

Foie-gras  eu  Aspic,  a  la  Diplomate  391 

„        Darioles  a  la  Yatel  .        .  392 

Langiies  a  I'Espagnole  (Petites)    .  395 

Mauviettes  en  Aspic       .        .        .  389 

Mayonnaise  de  Homard         .        .  363 

Filets  de  Truite      .  371 

MedaiUons  de  Volaille  a  I'lmperiale  381 
Petits    Pains    de   Volaille   a    la 

Chevalier 390 

Petites  Crenies  de  Faisan       .        .  388 

„      Laugues  a  I'Espagnole        .  395 
Poulet  en  Belle- Vue        .        .        .379 

Roulade  a  la  Norvegienne  .  .  377 
Souffles  Glaces  a  I'Ecarlate    .        .394 

Souffles  de  Saumou  a  I'ludienue    .  367 

Supreme  de  Yean  a  I'Aspic    .        .  378 

Tartines  de  Volaille  en  Surprise    .  382  | 

Tomates  a  I'Algerieune  .        .        .  385  i 

Truite  Saumonee  a  la  Rothschild  .  388  I 

Turban  de    Filets  de  Soles  a  la  ! 

Moutpellier       ....  370 ' 

I 
I 

COLD    SIDE    DISHES  (HORS        i 

D'CEUVRES   FR0ID3). 

Anchois  (Anchories)     .        .        .      50 ! 
„        Beurre  (Butter)      .        .      76  | 
„        a  la  Norvegienne    .        .      51  j 
„        aux  Rosettes    .        .        .64 
Appetisants,  Maconnaise        •        .      66  | 
„  a  la  Suedoise    .        •      ^^  i 

Beurre  (Butter)     .        .        .        •      41  | 
„        Anchois      .        .        .        .      76  | 
,,        d'Ecrevisses      .        .        .78 
„        de  Homard        .        .        .      77 ' 
„        Maltre  d'Hotel  .        .80 

„        MontpeUier       .        .        .      75  j 
„        de  Raifort  .        .        .81 

„        a  Ra-vigote         .        .        .      79  ; 
Bonnes  Bouches  de  Sardines  .        .      49  ] 
Brissolettes  de  Caviar    ...      57 
Caisses  k  la  Cassanora    .        .        .73 
Canapes  au  Caviar  .        .        .53 

„  a  la  Capucine  ...  55 
„  „  Turbigo  .  •  .67 
„  „  Tirrque  ...  65 
Cassolettes,  Epicurienne  ,  .  62 
Caviar  aux  Ecrevisses  ...  54 
Caviar  en  Salade  ....  58 
Concombres  (Cucumbers)  .  .  45 
Cornichons  ((3-herkins)  .  .  .43 
Crotltes  a  I'Espagnole  ...  59 
Crofites  aux  Ecrevisses  a  la  Tartare    61 

Nids  k  la  Chartres 71 

Olives 44 

Olives  k  la  Tartare  ...      72 

Radis  (Radishes)  ....  42 
Rosettes  aux  Ancliois  ...  64 
Rojans  a  la  Bordelaise  ...  47 
Salami  and  other  Sausages    .        .      46 

Sardines 48 

Simple  Hors  d'CEuvres    ...      74 


NO. 

Tartines  a  la  Baroda  .  .  6S 
„  a  la  Luculus  ...  69 
.,        de  Caviar         ...      56 

Thou  Marine 60 

Tranches  de  Caviar  Remoulade  .      52 

FISH  (POISSON). 

AnguiUe  a  I'Espagnole    .        .  .     344 

Blauchailles  (Whitebait)       .  .    348 

Bouillebaisse 316 

Bouchees  a  la  Suedoise  .        .  .    353 

Cabillaud  (  Cod)  a  I'lndieune  .    330 

„          a  la  Maltaise .        .  .329 

„          Recrepi  (crimped)  .     328 

Eel,  Spanish  style    .        .        .  .344 

Eperlans  a  la  Celestine    .        .  .     345 

Flounders  en  Souchet     .        .  .    327 
Homai'd  (Lobster). 

„       a  I'Americaine          .  .359 

„       Cotelettes  en  Aspic  .  .     362 

„       Farci  au  Gratin        .  .357 

„       Coquilles  a  la  Gauloise  .    358 

,.       Mayonnaise      .        .  .    363 

,;       Salade       .        .        .  .578 

„       Souffle  a  I'Aiu-ore     .  .    355 
Huitres  (Oysters). 

,,        enCoquiUes      .        .  .691 

„        Cromeskies        .        .  .351 

„        Croquettes         .        .  .    694 

„        en  caisses  a  la  Diable  .    693 

„        Fricassee  ....     350 

Petits  Pates      .        .  .352 

„        Quenelles  ....    349 

a  la  Tsar   .        .        .  .692 

Limandes  en  Souchet     .        .  .     327 

Lobster,  s^e  Homard. 

Merlans  (Whiting). 

„        Filets  a  la  Juive       .  .     339 

„           „     au  (Jratin         .  .     341 

„           „     Frits,  Tvrolieune  .    340 

„     Souffle  (ie.         .  .     342 

Mullet  (red),  Venitieime        .  .    343 

Oysters,  see  Huitres. 

Petoncles  a  la  Proveneale      .  .    346 

„         au  Gratin        .        .  .     347 

Raie  au  Beurre  noir       .        .  .361 

Raie  a  la  Bourgeoise      .        .  .     360 

Red  Mullet,  Venitienne  .        .  .343 

Rougets  a  la  Venitienne         .  .     343 

Saumon  (Salmon ). 

„        Dariole,  Moscovienne  .    3G6 

„       Darne  a  la  Rosebery  .    319 

„      a  la  Chambord  .     320 

„            „      a  la  Ravigote .  .    365 

„       Hure  a  la  Moderne    .  .317 

„       Mousseline  a  la  Cardinal  .    322 

„       a  la  Montmorency    .  .    318 

„       en  Papilottes     .        .  .321 

„       Souffle  a  I'lndienne  .  .    367 

Trout,  Chaudfroid     .  .    368 

Scallops,  see  Petoncles. 


INDEX. 


695 


Fish  (Poissox)— co«f.  xo. 
'Skate,  see  Eaie. 

Smelts,  Celestiiie  style   .        .  .  345 

Sole,  Filets  en  Aspic       .        .  .  369 

„      eu  Cbaudfroid      .  .  372 

„      en  Fer  a  Cheval  .  .  373 

„      a  la  Chasseur  Royal  .  338 

„      Capucieime,  cold  .  372 

„      a  la  Montpellier  .  .  370 

„      a  la  Moruay         .  .  333 

a  la  Normaude       .        .  .  331 

an  Parmesan  ....  334 

a  la  Richelieu         .        .  .  337 

a  la  Trouville         .        .  .336 

a  la  Xavier     ....  335 

Soucliet  of  Flounders     .        .  .  327 

To  Carve  Fish         .        .        .  .518 
Truite  (Trout). 

„     a  la  Cambaceres  .        .  .  323 

,,      Filets  a  la  Mayonnaise  .  371 

„         „     a  la  Milanaise   .  .  324 

„      Saumonee  a  la  Rothschild  368 

Turban  de  Filets  de  Sole        .  .  370 

Turbot  a  la  Provenc^ale .        .  .  326 

„       a  la  Victoria      .        .  .  325 

„       Fleurettes,  Hollandaise  .  364 

Vol-au-Vent  a  la  Chambord  .  .  354 

Whitebait 348 

Whiting,  see  Merlans. 


FORCEMEATS  AND  GARXISHINGS. 

Farce  de  Faisan 

Fish  (Merlau) 

de  Foie  (Liver)     . 

de  Gribier  (Game) 

for  Turkey  (Diude) 

Godivean 

Goose  (Oie)  . 

Merlan  (Fish) 

Ravioli  . 

Volaille  (Chicken) 
"Garnishing,  Allemande 
„  Alliance 


Alsacienne 

Ancienne 

Andalouse 

Athenienne 

aux  Cepes 

Bayard 

Bayonnaise 

Beaufort 

Belle-Vue 

Bigarade 

Bignon 

Bohemienne 

Bordelaise  . 

Bourgeoise 

Bourgiiignotte 

Bontoux     . 

Bretonne    . 

Brisse 

Cambacei'es 


233 

228 
234 
232 
504 
229 
505 
228 
129 
231 
238 
241 
240 
239 
242 
243 
270 
251 
252 
244 
246 
247 
249 
245 
255 
256 
250 
253 
248 
254 
257 


NO. 

Castelaiue  , 

.     258 

Cavour 

.     259 

Chambord  . 

.     260 

Chartre 

.     261 

Chartreuse 

.     269 

Chasseur    . 

.     262 

Chateaubriand 

.     264 

Chesterfield 

.     265 

ChevaUere  . 

.     266 

Chipolata  . 

.     267 

Clamart     . 

.     263 

St.  Cloud    . 

.     268 

Conti . 

.    271 

Crapotiue  . 

.    272 

Cussy 

.     273 

Dubouzet  . 

.     274 

Duclair 

.     276 

Duffcrin     . 

.    275 

Durance     . 

.     277 

Ecarlate 

.     278 

Ecossaise    . 

.     279 

Espagnole  . 

.    280 

Financiei'e 

.    282 

Flamande  . 

.    281 

Genoise 

.     283 

St.  Georges 

.     284 

Georgieune 

.     285 

St.  Germain 

.     286 

Gitana 

,     287 

Glengarry  . 

.    291 

Godard 

.    289 

Gouffe 

.     290 

Gourmet    . 

.    292 

Grecque     . 

.     288 

Gudewife  . 

.     293 

St.  Hubert 

.     294 

Jardiniere  . 

.     295 

Joinville    . 

.    296 

Louis  XV.  . 

297 

Lyonnaise  . 

'.    298 

Marengo    . 

.     300 

Milanaise   . 

.    299 

Moutebello 

.    301 

Napolitaine 

.     302 

Nivernaise 

.     303 

Palmeritaine 

.     304 

Paysanne  . 

.     305 

Piemontaise 

.     307 

Princesse   . 

.     306 

Regence 

.     309 

Richelieu    . 

.     308 

Eobson 

.     310 

Rouen  naise 

.     311 

Soubise 

.     312 

Tortue 

.    313 

Valencienue 

.     314 

Windsor     . 

.     315 

LAMB  &  MUTTON  (DE  L'AGNEAU 
ET  DU   MOUTON). 

Ballotine  d'Agueau  aus  Pois         .    501 


696 


r.ECHERCHE    COOKERY 


Lamb  and  Ml'ttox— co«^  ko.  | 

Canolettes  .a  la  Moutglas       .        .  433  i 

Carbonades  de  Moutou,  Xantaise  .  438  | 

Carre  d'Agneau,  Bohemienue        .  500  \ 

Cotelettes  d'Agueaii  a  la  Bonaparte  435 

„  „  a  la  Cahors  .  434 

„  „         a  la  Danzig .  374 

„  „         alaLioud'Or  436 

„  „         a  la    Mosco- 

vieune      .  375a 

„  .,         a  la  Poiupa-  ' 

dour.        .  439 

„  „         en  Chaufroid  375 

„  de  Moutou  a  la  Byron .  444 

„  „       a  la  Princesse  443 

„  „      a  la  Provenqale  442 

„  „       a  la  Soubise  .  441 

„  „      alaYaUorbes  376 

„  „       Naturel         .  440 

Filets  de  Moiiton  a  la  Tyi'olieune .  445 

Gigot  de  Moutou,  to  carve     .        .  524 

Petites  Timbales  a  la  Meridouale  .  447 

Queux  d'Agneau  a  la  Russe  .        .  437 

Roguons  de  Moutou  a  la  Chiuoise .  446 

Saddle,  Lamb  or  Mutton,  to  carve  523 

Shoulder  of  Mutton,  to  carve         .  522 

PORK  (DU  PORC). 

Cotelettes  de  Pore  a  la  Robert      .  449 

„  „        a  la  Soubise    .  450 

Filets  de  Pore  a  la  Perigueux       .  448 

Jambon  a  la  Marguerite        .        .  502 

„        a  la  Neige         .        .        .  715 

„       Braise  au  Champagne     .  503 

„        Croquettes  au  Riz     .        .710 

„        Friandines    a   la    West- 

phalienue      .        .        .  709 

Medallions  de  Sanglier  k  la  Russe  452 
Pieds  de  Pore  a  la  DuseUes  .       .451 


PASTRY,  VARIOUS  (PATLSSERIE). 

Cakes,  Tartlets,  Biscuits,  etc. 
Almond  Paste 
Eeurre  au  Cafe 
Biscuits  a  I'Africaine    . 

„       k  la  Cuillere 

„       au  Cognac 

„       de  Bordeaux    . 

„       Cocoanut . 

„       Finger      . 

„       Opera 

„       Parmesan 
Boiling  Sugar  to  various  degrees 
Bonne  Bouche  Drops 
Brioche  Cake .... 
Cr^me  Patissi^re    . 
Confectioner's  Custard  . 
Dames  d'Honneur . 
Dartois  aux  Abricots  Meringue 

Dominos 

Feuilletage  (PufE  Paste) 


Fondant  (Icing)     . 
Gateau  (Cake). 
„      ^  la  Beatrice 
,,      a  la  Portugaise 
„      de  Brioche  k  la  Franeaise  . 
„      Mille-feuilles 
„      Pithiviers  . 
Gaufres  a  la  Suisse 
Genoise  au  Cafe 
„     au  Chocolat 
„     Decoree 
„     Paste . 
Glace  Fondante  au  Cafe 
„      for  small  Pastrj- 
„     Royale  . 
Icing  for  Petits  Fours 
Macaroon  Paste 
Maids  of  Honour    . 
Meringues  aux  Amandes 
„  au  Citron 

„  aux  Pistaches 

„  SheUs    . 

Pain  Perdu 
Pate  (Paste). 
„    d'Amande 
„    Brioche  . 
„    Cassolette 
„    Ohoux     . 
„    Duchesse 
„    Feuilletage     . 
„    Foncer    . 
„    Macaroon 
„    Madeleine 
„    Nouille  . 


797 
803 
786 
788 
783 
782 
785 
788 
784 
751 
806 
787 
768 
791 
791 
765 
767 
781 
792 


„    Pouplin  . 
„    Puff        .        . 
„    Ravioli  . 
„    Short 
Pulled  Bread  . 
Royal  Icing     . 
Taftelettes  (Tartlets). 
„  Balmoral 

„         Chocolat 
„         Clarence 
„         Granville 
„  Orange 

„  Palace . 

„         Pithiviers 
„  St.  Cloud 

„  St.  Denis 

Tourte  a  la  Frangipane 
Tranches  a  la  Neige 
Vanilla  Sugar 


xo. 

802 

770 
771 
768 
769 
766 
755 
779 
778- 
780 
777 
802 
801 
800- 
801 
796 
?65 
775 
774 
776 
773 
789 

797 
768 
63 
795^ 
799 
792 
804 
796 
798 
793 
794 
792 
126 
804 
79^ 
801 

758 
762 
760 
759 
757 
763 
766 
764 
761 
756 
772 
805 


POULTRY,  GAilE,   etc.  (DE  LA 
VOLAILLE,  DU  GIBIER,  etc.). 

Attriotes  de  Volaille,  Vaudoise  .  462 
Ballotine  de  Volaille  a  la  Cardinal  467 
Becasse  aux  Huitres  .  .  .513 
„  Filets,  a  la  TallejTand  .  490 
Bombes  a  I'Alsacienne  .        .       .393^ 


INDEX. 


697 


Poultry,  Game,  ktc. — cont.  no. 

Bordure  de  Lievi'e  a  la  Bergere     .  397 

Boiichees  a  la  Reine       .        .        .  488 

Cailles  a  la  Souvaroffe   .        ,        .  485 

Canard,  Salmis  a  la  Montreuil       .  473 

„       a  la  Portugaise .        .        .  476 

„       aux  Olives .        .        ,        .475 

„       Sauvage  ("Wild  Duck)  aux 

Olives     .        .        .        .477 

Caneton  Ruti 506 

„       a  la  Rouennaise       .        .  507 

„       Filets  a  la  Legumiere       .  474 

Capon,  to  carve       .        .        .        .  53J 

Cliautroid  de  Yolaille     .        .        .  3S4 

„        de  Perdreaux         .        .  386 

Chartreuse  de  Faisan,  Balmoral     .  387 

Chicken,  see  Volaille  and  Poulet. 

Chicken,  to  carve   ....  530 

Civet  de  Lievre  a  la  Bordelaise     .  480 

Coq  de  Bruyere  Roti      ,        .        .  512 

Cotelettes  a  I'Ecarlate    .        .        .  464 

„         de  Lapereaux       .        .  484 

„         de  Pei-dreaux,Financiere  487 

Cremes  a  I'Ecarlate        .        .        .  383 

„       de  Faisan    ....  388 

,,      de  Volaille  a  I'Argenteuil  .  469 

„      de  Volaille  en  Tomates      .  385 

Crepinettes  de  Volaille  aux  Truffes  466 

Cuisse  de  Volaille  en  PapiUotes     .  460 

Darioles  de  Volaille  (cold)     .        .  384 

Dinde  Farcie  aux  Marrons     .        .  504 

Duck,  see  Canard. 

„     to  carve        ....  529 

Duckling,  see  Caneton. 

Epigrammes  de  Faisan,  Jardiniere  492 

Faisan  (Pheasant)  Barde       .        .  510 

Filets  de  Becasse,  TaUeyrand         .  490 

„     de  Canetons,  Legumiere      .  474 

Foie-gras  en  Aspic.        .        .        .  391 

„        Darioles  a  la  Vatel          .  392 

„        a  la  Diplomate        .        .  391 

„        Zephires  aux  Truffes      .  491 

Filets  de  Volaille  a  la  Cussy          .  461 

Friandines  de  Gibier,  Perigueux  .  493 

Fricadelles  de  Volaille,  AUemande  465 

POULTRY    AND    GAME  (DE  LA 
VOLAILLE  ET  DU  GIBIER). 

Gibelotte  de  Lapin  ....  483 

Goose  (Oie),  to  carve      .        .        .  528 

Grouse  (Coq  de  Bruyere),  roast     .  512 

Guinea  Fowl  (roast)       .        .        .  508 
Hare,  stuffed  (Lievre)    .        .        .511 

„      Bordure  a  la  Bergere    .        .  397 

„      Civet  a  la  Bordelaise    .        .  480 
Lapei-eau  (Young  Wild  Rabbit). 

„        Cotelettes       .        .        .  484 
Lapin  (Rabbit). 

„      Frit  k  la  Tartare         .        .  482 

„      Gibelotte  (Stew)         .        .  483 
Lark,  see  Mauviettes. 
Lark  Pie  (Raised  Pate)  .        .        .494 


NO. 

Mauviettes  Farcies  a  la  Madrid     .  489 

„            a  la  Rentiere         .        .  49S 

„            a  I'Aspic        .        .         .  389 
Medallions  de  Volaille  al'Imperiale 

(cold) 331 

Medallions  de  Volaille  a  la  Cussy 

(hot) 46L 

Oie  (Goose)  Rotie  (Farcie)     .        .  50-5 

Poularde  Rotie         ....  509 
Poulet  (Chicken,  Fowl). 

„        en  BeUe-Vue  (cold)          .  379 

„        Saute  a  la  Carnot    .        .  458 

„            „      a  la  Chasseur         .  455 

„            „      a  la  Marengo         .  454 

„            „      a  la  Plombiere      .  453 
„        a  la  Duchesse  .        .        .457 

„        a  la  Hougroise         .        .  459 

„        Frit  a  la  T^Tolienne        .  458 

Palmettes  de  Volaille  h  la  Gambetta  463 
Partridge  (Perdreau,  Perdix). 

„         to  carve.        .        .        .  529 

„         Braise  aux  Choux         .  48(> 

„         Cotelettes,  Financi^re  .  487 

„         a  la  Crapoliue       .        .  515 

„         Souffle  a  I'Anglaise       .  488 

„         Rotie  a  I'Anglaise         .  517 

„             „    a  I'Espagnole       .  514 

Perdi-ix  blanclie,  Salmis  a  la  Regeuce  479 

Pigeons,  Timbales,  a  la  Supreme  .  471 

„       Farcis  a  la  Princesse        .  472 

Pintade  Rotie  au  Cresson       .        .  508 

Pluviers  (Plovers). 

„        Salmis  a  la  Chasseur       .  478 

Ptarmigan,  Salmis  a  la  Regeuce  .  479 

Quails  k  la  Souvaroffe     .        .        .  485 

Rabbit,  see  Lapin  and  Lapereau. 

Salade  de  Gibier      ....  581 

„     de  Perili-eau  ....  580 

„      de  Volaille    ....  579 

Salmis  of  Duck  aux  Olives     .        .  475 

„      of  Partridge  ....  479 

„      of  Plovers     ....  478 

„      of  Ptarmigan        .        .        .  479 

„      of  Widgeon   ....  477 

Sarcelles  aux  Olives        .        .        .  477 

Souffle  de  Perdi-eau  a  I'Anglaise    .  483 

Tartiues  de  Volaille  en  Surprise    .  382 

Tomates  a  I'Algerienne  .        .        .  385 

Turkey,  stuffed,  roast     .        .        .  504 

„        to  carve     ....  525- 

Venison,  to  carve    ....  523 

Woodcock  a  la  Talleyrand     .        .  490 

„          to  carve        .        .        .  529- 

Zephires  de  Foie-gras      .        .        .  491 


SAUCES,  &c. 


Abricot  (Apricot) 
AUemande 
Anchois    . 
Aspic  Cream    . 
„      Jelly 


168. 
173 

227 
225- 


698 


RECHERCHE    COOKERY 


Sauces,  &c.—co)i 

f. 

NO. 

xo. 

Aurora     . 

.     356 

Xormande 332 

Bearnaise 

179 

Orange  (sweet) 

.     636 

Bechamel 

167 

„        Jus  d'Oran 

ge 

.     207 

Beurre  Xoir     . 

.     193 

Oyster 

.     157 

Bigarade  . 

208 

Pain  (Bread)   . 

.     183 

Black  Butter   . 

193 

Pepper  (Poivrade) 

.    211 

Blanche,  wliite 

174 

Perigueux 

.     192 

Elanquette 

171 

Pink  Chaudfi'oid 

.     224 

Bordelaise 

197 

Piquaute . 

.     190 

Bread 

■183 

Poivrade . 

,     211 

BrowTi  Chaudfroid 

223 

Pompadour 

.     204 

Brown  Gravy  , 

196 

Poulette  . 

.     172 

Cardinal  . 

162 

Punch,  Sirop   . 

.     632 

Celeri  (Celery) 

178 

Ravigote  (hot) 

.     166 

Champagne 

210 

Kemoulade 

.     218 

Chateaubriand 

198 

Robert 

.     187 

Chaudfroid      . 

221 

Ruisseau  . 

.     206 

Chasseur 

.     191 

Sabayon  (sweet) 

.     633 

„       Royal 

158 

Salmis  (Game) 

.     189 

Chocolat  . 

637 

Savoury  Cream 

.     227 

Cognac  (sweet; 
Colbert     . 

630 
201 

Sirop  au  Punch 
Soubise    . 

.    632 
.     180 

Concombre 

217 

Suedoise  (cold) 

.     214 

Creme  Tomate 

203 

Supreme  . 

.     175 

Danoise    . 

164 

Tartare    . 

.     213 

Demi-glace 

.     185 

Tomate    . 

.     202 

Diable  (deviUed) 

199 

„       Aspic 

.     226 

Dutch 

170 

„        Creme  de 

.     203 

DuxeUes,  Puree 

.    235 

Valentine 

.     216 

Epicm-ieune     . 

219 

Yeloute    . 

.     169 

Espagnole 

184 

Verte,  Mousseline 

.     215 

Essence  de  Volaille 

237 

Victoria  . 

.     163 

Fawn  Chaudfroid 

221 

Vinaigrette     . 

.237a 

Fines  Herbes  . 

201 

Vin  Blanc 

.     165 

Fraises  (sweet) 

634 

Watercress 

.     206 

Fumet  of  Game 

236 

White       . 

.     174 

Game  (Gibier) 

200 

„      Chauilfroid 

.     222 

Genoise    . 

194 

„      Wine     . 

.     165 

Gravy 

196 

Wine  (sweet)  . 

.     633 

Green  Mousseliue 

215 

Xavier 

.     159 

Oreen  Chaudfroid 

224 

Hollandaise 

170 

Horseradish  (hot) 

182 

SAVOURY    DISHES, 

(cold) 
Huitres  (Oysters) 
Indienne  . 

220 
157 
209 

Suitable  as  Second  Course,  Afteu 
DixxEK  AND  Breakfast  Dishes. 

Italienne  . 

188 

Amandes  (Almonds)  a  la  Diable  .    754 

Joiuville  . 

161 

Amandes  Salees       ....     753 

Jus  d'Orange  . 

207 

Anchois  a  la  Vatel ....    703 

Kirsch  (sweet) 

631 

Anchovy  Eclairs     ....    704 

Liqueur  (sweei) 

629 

Condoles  .        .        .        .701 

Madere  (meat) 

186 

Artichoke  Bottoms  a  la  President    737 

„        Sabayon  (s 

weet 

633 

Beignets  de  Cervelles      .        .        .716 

Maitre  d'Hotel 

181 

„        a  la  Gruyere     .        .        .     742 

Marseillaise 

205 

Biscuits  de  Fromage  a  la  Creme    .     752 

Miuelotte 

160 

„        au  Pai-mesan    .        .        .    751 

ilayounaise 

212 

Bonnes  Bouches  aux  Huitres         .    695 

Meat  Glaze 

195 

Boston  Eggs 727 

Mornay    . 

176 

Bouchees  au  Caviar        .        .        .696 

Mousseline 

177 

Brain  Fritters 716 

(sweet) 

638 

Canapes  de  Sardines,  Soubise         .     700 

„         (verte,  g 

reen 

)       . 

215 

Cannelons  au  Florae 

lor   . 

. 

.     750 

INDEX. 


699 


Savoury  DisREf^— co«^ 
Caviar  a  I'Aiidalouse 

„      Bouchees 
Flans  de  Crepes  aux  Epinards 
,.      de  Vacherin,  Bernoise . 
Florador  Cannelons 
Fouds  a  la  President 
Friandines  a  la  Westplialienue 
Fricassee  d'CEiifs    . 
Gondoles  a  rAnchois 

„       au  Parmesau  . 
Gruyere  Fritters 
Ham  Croquets  ^\•itll  Rice 

„    a  la  Neige 
Huitres  en  caisses  a  la  Diable 
„     a  la  Tsar 

„      Gratines  en  Coquilles 
Jambou  a  la  Neige  . 
Kish  au  Parmesan  a  la  Pouard 
Lobster  Tartines  a  la  St.  Martin 
Macaroni  a  la  Dieppoise 
Marechale  Omelets . 
Milanaise  Eggs 
Niokes  au  Gratin    . 
CEufs  BrouiUes  aux  Anchois  . 
„  „        aux  Asperges 

„     a  la  Boston    . 
„      a  la  Camot    . 
„      a  la  Dreux 
„     a  la  Ducliesse 
„     Farcis  aux  Crevettes 
„  „      sur    Croutes    a 

dienne  . 
„    en  Feuilletage 
„    Garnis  a  la  Coquette 
„    Miroir  a  la  Princesse     . 
„    a  la  Milanaise 
„    a  la  Salamandi'e 
„    aux  Truffes    . 
Omelette  a  la  Bonne-fenime  . 
„        aux  Fines  Herbes    . 
„        Gratinoe  au  Parmesan 
„        a  la  Marechale 
Oyster  Bonnes  Benches 

.,      Croquets 
O^'sters  in  cases  a  la  Diable   . 
„       in  shells 
„       a  la  Tsar     . 
Pailles  au  Parmesan 

„     a  la  Yarmoutli    . 
Parmesan  Biscuits  . 
Petites  Croutes  au  Fromage  . 
„       Gondoles  a  I'Anchois 
„        au  Parmesan 
Petits  Pains  de  Crevettes 
„  „      aux  CEufs 

„      Souffles  au  Tlion 
„      Tartelettes,  Cracovieune 
Polenta  Tartlets 
Rissolettes  a  la  Solferino 
Salted  Almonds 
Sardine  Canaoes  a  la  Soubise 
Savoury  Omelet 


rin- 


xo. 
,  697 
.  696 
713 
745 
750 
737 
709 
723 
701 
746 
742 
710 
715 
693 
692 
691 
715 
717 
707 
748 
721 
725 
741 
729 
726 
727 
736 
724 
731 
735 

740 
732 
733 

734  I 

725 

738 

730 

7191 

720: 

722 

721 

695 

694 

693 

691 

692 

747 

705 

751 

743 

701 

746 

702 

718 

706 

699 

712 

714 

753 

700 

720 


SO. 
Scrambled  Eggs  ....  728 
Semoline  Croquets  ....  749 
Souffles  au  Thon  ....  70& 
Tartelettes  a  la  Cracovieune  .  .  699 
„  a  la  Polenta .        .        .    712 

Tartines  de  Homard  a  la  St.  Martin    707 
Zephires  a  la  Parmentier       .        .711 

SOUPS    (POTAGES). 

Bisque  de  Homard  Mariniere        .    135 

„  „         Parisienne        .    136 

„      de  Petoncles  (Scallops)      .    137 

Bouillon  (Stock)     ....      82 

„  „    deVolailleal'Orge    132 

General  Stock 83 

Second  Stock,  Remouillage    .        .      84 
Stock  Bouillon         ....      82 
Consomme  de  Gibier      .        .        .    131 
„         a  la  Grisonne        .       .      98 
„         a  rimperiale        .        .    116 
„  a  la  Jardiniere     .        .    lo7 

„         a  la  Julienne        .        .    104 
„  Mikado         .        .        .    12Q 

„  Mulligatawny      .        .133 

„  a  la  Nantaise        ,        .112 

„  a  la  Napoleon       .        .    125 

„  h.  la  Nesselrode     .        .    114 

„  aux  Nouilles         .        .     127 

„  a  rOrge         .        .        .132 

„  Pates  d'ltalie       .        .    124 

„  a  la  Paysanne      .        .     106 

„  a  la  Portugaise    .        .      99 

„  Petites  Marmites         .      86 

„  Pot  au  Feu  ...      85 

„  a  la  Princesse       .        .    Ill 

„  Printanier    aux    Que- 

nelles        .        .        .113 
„  aux  Quenelles  Frites   .    119 

„  aux  Raviolis        .        .    128 

„  au  Riz  Brunoise  .        .    109 

„  a  la  Royal    .        .        .    1U2 

„  au  Sagou      .        .        .122 

„  a  la  Sevi  gne         .        .      96 

„  a  la  Solferino       .        .117 

a  la  St.  Hubert    .        .131 
„  a  la  Tortue  Claire        .    130 

„  de  Volaille  .        .        .      90 

„  V        fi'appo  (iced)      94 

„  a  la  Xavier  .        ,        .    118 

Consommes  (Clear  Soups). 

„  a  I'Amlalouse       .        .    103 

„  a  la  Brisse    ...      91 

„  a  la  Brunoise        .        .    108 

„  ft  la  Brunoise  au  Riz   .    109 

„  a  la  Bouquetiere  .  ..  105 
„  i  la  Careme ...      92 

„  a  la  C61estiue       .        .      97 

„  k  la  Chiffonade  .  .  93 
„  a  la  Colbert .  .  .101 
„  a  la  Christophe  Colombe  121 

„  to  clarify      ...      88 

„  Croute  au  Pot     .        .      87 


700 


KECHBRCHE    COOKERY 


Sorps — cont.  xo. 

Consommes  a  la  Deslignac      .        .      95 

„  a  la  Dubourg        .        .    115 

„         a  la  Fleuri    .        .        .110 

„  a  la  Florador        .        .123 

„         a  la  Florentine     .        .    100 

„  in  general     ...      88 

Creme  d'A.rticliauts        .        .        .    145 

„      d'Asperges   .        .        .        .152 

„      de  Concombres    .        .        .153 

„      d'Ofge  (Barley)  .        .        ,144 

Purees,  Potage  (Thick  Soups). 

„      a  la  Jackson         •        .        .    143 

„     aux  Huitres  (Oyster)  .        .    134 

„      de  Homard,  Bisque      .        .136 

„      Cauliflower  a  la  Creme        .     146 

„      Choux  de  Bruxelles     .        .    155 

„     Choux-flem-  a  la  Creme       .    14G 

„      Crecy  an  Riz        .        .        .     149 

„     Chestnut  a  la  Chasseur      .    156 

„      Fauboune     ....     142 

Lapin  (Rabbit)        .        .        .        .138 

Lobster,  Bisque       .        .        .      135-136 

MaclMahou,  Potage         .        .        .     148 

Mariuiere  Bisque    .        .        .        .135 

Marrous  a  la  Chasseur    .        .        .156 

Mock  Turtle 139 

Nivernaise,  Puree  ....  151 
Orge,  Creme  d'  .  .  .  .144 
Oseille  (Sorrel)  ....  150 
Oseille,  Potage  Lapin  h  V       .        .    138 

Oyster,  Puree 134 

Partridge  (Perdreau)  .  .  .  141 
Potiron  (Pumpkin)  .  .  .  154 
Rabbit,  Potage        .        .        .        .138 

Reine,  Potage 140 

Rice,  Crecy  au  Riz  ....  149 
Poyal  Custard  for  soups  .  .  89 
ScaUop,  Bisque        ....    137 

Sorrel,  Potage 150 

Tomate  a  la  St.  Louis  .  .  .  147 
Tortue  Fausse         ....    139 

SWEET   ENTREilETS    (HOT). 

Abricot  Suedois      ....    605 

Apple  Fritters,  Beiguets        .        .    626 

Apples,  EtoufEees,  Polonaise  .        .603 

Apples  \n.t\\  Rice,  Casserole  .        .    602 

Baba  au  Rhum        ....    608 

Banana  Fritters      ....    620 

Banana  Pudding    ....     585 

Beignets  de  Bananes      .        .        .     620 

„       de  Praises        .        .        .    624 

„       de  GroseiUes    .        .        .623 

„       de  Reines-C'aude    .        .625 

„        Souffle  a  la  Yanille         .    621 

„       a  la  Torrijos    .        .        .622 

Berlin  Pudding       .        .        .        .593 

Bonnes  Bouclies  a  la  Washington    611 

Bordure  de  Fruits,  Xationale        .     606 

„        de  Poires  a  la  Reine         .    600 

„        Sararin     ....    607 

Casserole  de  Pommes  au  Riz         .    602 


KO. 

Charlotte  de  Cerises        .        .        .    612 

Cherry  Charlotte    .        .        .        .612 

„       Croquets     ....     61S 

Chocolate  Pudding         .        .        .592 

Christmas  Pudding        .        .        .     594 

Cinnamon  Pudding        .        .        .    589 

Crepes  (Pancakes) ....    627 

Croquettes  de  Cerises      .        .        .    613 

Eggs  a  la  Neige      ....     614 

Fruit-border,  National   .        .        .606 

GrO0seberr\-  Fritters        .        .        .    623 

Greengage  Fritters         .        .        .     625 

lleriuguage  Sicilienne  .        .        .    610 

Mousse  a  I'Alsacienue    .        .        .    588 

Mousseline  Pudding       .        .        .     587 

Xapoleon  Pudding  ,        .        .     585 

Normaude  Pudding        .        .        .     583 

Omelette  a  la  Celestine  .        .        .617 

„        a  la  Charlotte         .        .616 

„        au  Kirsch        .        .        .619 

„        au  Rhum         .        .        .618 

Orange  Souffle        .        .        .        .596 

CEuf  YauiHe  a  la  Neige  .        .614 

Pancakes  (Crepes)  ....    628 

Parmentier  Pudding      .        .        .     599 

Peaches  with  Rice,  Meringued     .    604 

Peches  au  Riz,  Meringuee      .        .    604 

Pear  Border  a  la  Reine  .        .        .     600 

Pears  with  Rice  a  la  Marquise      .    601 

Pine-apple  Pudding        .        .        .    595 

Poires  au  Riz  a  la  Marquise  .        .    601 

Pommes  Etouffees  a  la  Polonaise  .    603 

Pompadour  Timbale      .        .        .    609 

Ponding  de  Bananes      .        .        .    585 

„         a  la  Berlinoise  .        .    593 

„         a  la  Canelle     .        .        .    589 

„         aux  Cerises      .        .        .    586 

„         au  Chocolat     .        .        .     592 

„         a  la  Louis  Napoleon        .    582 

„         Mousseline       .        .        .    587 

„         de  Noel     .        .        .        .594 

„         a  la  Normaude        .        .    583 

„         a  la  Paysauue         .        .    590 

„         k  la  St.  Jean    .        .        .    591 

„         Souffle  a  I'Ananas  .        .    595 

„  „      aux  Framboises  .    598 

„  „      a  la  Parmentier  .    599 

„         a  la  Tictoria    .        .        .    584 

Raspberry  Souffle  Pudding   .        .     598 

St.  James's  Pudding       .        .        .    591 

Savarin  Border       ....    607 

Snow  Eggs  a  la  Yanille         .        .    614 

Souffles  aux  Praises        .        .        .    597 

Souffle  Fritters  a  la  Yanille  .        .    621 

„      a  rOrauge  ....    596 

Strawberry  Fritters       .        .        .624 

Suedoise  d'Abricots        .        .        .    605 

Sweet  Sauces  ....     629-638 

Yanilla  Fritters      .        .        .        .621 

Sugar         .        .        .        .80S 

Yictoria  Pudding  .        .        .        .     5»4 

Washington  Bonnes  Bouches        .    611 


INDEX. 


701 


SWEET  ENTREMETS  (COLD). 
(Creams,  Jellies,  Ices,  etc.) 

{See  also  Index  of  Pastrj%  &c.) 

xo. 
Almond  Cream       .        .        .        .670 
Apple  Chartreuse  a  la  Princesse   .  659 
„      Compote  a  la  Creme    .        .  666 
Apples,  Meringued  a  la  Creme      .  655 
Banana  Cream        ....  640 
Bananas  stuffed  with  Strawberries  658 
Baiianes  farcies  aux  Praises  .        .  658 
Bavaroise  de  Bananes    .        .        .  64U 
„         au  Caramel     .        .        .  641 
„         au  Chocolat   .        .  639 
Biscuit  Glaces  aux  Praises    .        .  682 
Bombes  de  Praises  a  la  Moderne  .  656 
Bordure  de  Pigues  a  la  Creme       .  664 
„        de  Marrons  a  la  Chautilly  662 
„        de  Prunes  a  la  Creme      .  663 
Cafe  Frappe  a  la  Viennoise    .        .  689 
Caramel  Pudding   ....  642 
CJliampagne  Jelly   ....  651 
Charlotte  aux  Praises    .        .        .  661 
„         a  la  St.  Jose    .        .        .660 
Chartreuse  de  Pommes  a  la  Prin- 
cesse           659 

Chestnut  Border  a  la  Chautilly     .  662 

Creme  d'Amandes  .        .        .*      .  670 

„      de  Praises  a  la  Chartreux  .  643 

„      a  la  Gr^noise         .        .        .  644 
„      Patissi^re,  for  filling  .        .791 

„      Eenversee    ....  642 

„      a  la  Romaine       .        .        .  647 

„      cuite  a  la  Suisse .        •        .  645 
„      au  Tapioca  a  la  Compote  de 

Fruits 646 

Compote  de  Pommes  a  la  Creme  .  666 

Cornets  de  Nougat  a  la  Creme      .  668 

Cotelettes  en  Surprise    .        .        .  672 

Fig  Border  with  Cream          .        .  664 

Gateau  de  Savoie  a  la  Chautilly    .  671 

„        Surprise  aux  Praises        .  667 

Gateaux  Savigny   ....  669 

Gelee  au  Vin  de  Champagne         .  651 

„    k  la  Macedoiue  de  Fruit        .  652 

„    au  Punch       ....  649 

„    au  Vin 648 

„    aux  Praises    ....  650 

Glace  au  Cai-amel   ....  680 

„     aux  Praises  h  la  Parisienne  679 

a  la  Grappe  de  Muscate        .  677 

au  Marasquiu       .         .        .  676 

au  Moka        .        .        .        .681 

„      a  la  Napolitaiue    .        .        .  675 

„     Plombiere  a  la  Japonaise     .  678 

Macedoine  de  Fruit  a  la  Gelee      .  652 

Maraschino  Ice       ....  676 

„            Mousse        .        .        .  685 

Meringues  a  la  Chautilly       .        .  674 

Moka  Coffee  (Ice)  .        .        .        .681 

Mousse  au  Curagao         .        .        .  684 


NO. 

ilousse  au  Marasquin    .        .        .  685 

„      aux  Poires  ....  683 
Napolitaines  a  la  Suisse         .        .673 

NeapoHtau  Ice        ....  675 

Nougat,  Cornets  a  la  Creme  .        .  668 

Oranges  Glacees  a  la  Napolitaiue  665 

Parfait  au  Cafe       ....  688 

Pear  Mousse 683 

Petits  Pains  de  Praises  .        .        .  657 

Pine-apple  Sorbet  ....  686 

Plombiere  Ice         ....  678 

Pommes  Meringuees  a  la  Creme    .  655 
Ponding  a  la  St.  Cloud  .        .        .653 

Punch  Jelly 649 

Riz  a  rimperatrice        .        .        .  664 

Roman  Cream         ....  647 

Savigny  Cake  ....  669 

Savoy  Cake 671 

Sorbet  d'Anauas     ....  686 

Sorbet  a  la  Romaine       .        .        .  687 

Strawberry  Cake,  en  Surprise        .  667 

Strawbeny  Charlotte    .        .        .  661 

„  Cream  .        .        .        .643 

,r  Ice        ...        .  650 

Jelly     .        .        .        .650 

St.  Cloud  Pudding .        .        .        .653 

Swiss  Cream 645 

Tapioca  Cream  with  Fniit  Compote  646 

The  (Tea)  Glace     ......  690 

Wine  Jelly 648 

VEAL  (DU  VEAU). 

Bonnes  Bouches  a  la  Moderne       .  402 
Calf's  Brain,  Cervelles  de  Veau  au 

BeuiTe  Noir     .        .        .        .421 

„        „       Beignets  de  Cervelles  716 
Calf's  Feet,  see  Pieds  de  Veau. 
Calf's  Head,  see  Tete  de  Veau. 

„       „       to  carve     .        .        .  526 

Cotelettes  a  la  Pranc^aise        .        .  398 

Epigrammes  a  la  Jardiniere  .        .  470 

Escalopes  a  la  Russe       .        .        .  399 

Filets  a  la  Colbert  ....  401 

„     with  Savoury  Jelly      .        .  378 

Pole  de  Veau  (liver)  a  I'Echalote  406 

Godivean  Quenelles        .        .        .  481 

Grenadius,  Jardiniere    .        .        .  400 

GuUasch 407 

Loin  or  Neck,  to  carve  .        .        .  521 

Noisettes  a  la  Princesse         .        .  412 

Olives  a  la  Toscane         .        .        .  411 

Pieds  de  Veau  a  I'Horly         .        .  415 

Quenelles  a  la  Clamart  .        .        .  405 

„        a  la  Marengo  ■.        .        .  410 

„        Godivean         .        .        ,  229 

Ris  de  Veau  a  I'Americaine  .        .  409 

„        „      a  la  Louis-Philippe   .  403 

„        „      aux  Epinards    .        .  404 

„        „      en  Attelets         .        .  408 

„        „      Supreme  a  1' Aspic     .  378 

Roulatle  a  la  Noi-vegienne      .        .  377 


702 


RECHERCHE    COOKERY. 


Veal  (Du  Ykau)— co«^  xo. 

Sweetbread,  see  Ris  de  Veau. 

„  to  blanch    .        .  .    416 

Tete  de  Veau  a  la  Cavour     .  .    420 

„        „       a  la  Poiilette    .  .    418 

„        „       a  la  Vinaigrette  .    419 

„        „       en  Tortue        .  .417 

Vol-au-Vent  a  la  Victoria     .  .    414 

VEGETABLES  AND  SALADS         I 
(LEaUMES),  DRESSED.  ,! 

Artichauts  (Artichokes). 

„  a  la  Barigoule      .  .     560 

J,  Eutiers  a  la  Chausseur     5G1  ' 

„  Fouds  a  la  Mornay  .     562  ; 

Asporges,  Petits  Pains  aux    .  .    573 

Aubergines  Farcies        .        .  .    563 
Garottes,  Nouvelles  a  la  Flamande    559  i 
Champignons  (Mushrooms)  j 

„  a  la  Diable      .  .    569 ; 

„  a  la  Bechamel  .    567  i 

„  Farcis     .        .  .    568 1 

Choux  (Cabbage). 

„      Farcis  au  Beurre         .  .    553 
Choux  de  Mer  (Sea-kale). 

„  „      a  la  HoUandaise  .     554 

Choux-fleur  (Cauliflower). 
Choux-raves,  Kohl-rabi. 

„        „        a  la  Cr^me       .  .    551 
Epinards  (Spinach). 

„        a  la  Bechamel  .  .    556 

„        Flans  de  Crepes      .  .    713 

„        Souffles  aux     .        ,  .    558 

Flageolets  a  la  Poulette         .  .    570 

Laitues  (Lettuces). 

„        Braisees  au  Jus        .  .    552 
Oignons  (Onions). 

„        Farcis  a  la  Moscovieune  .    572 

Oseilles,  Sorrel  (Puree)  .        .  ,    557 


Petits  Pois  (Green  Peas). 

„     au  Jambon  .        .  .    571 

Poireaux  (Leeks). 

„  au  Gratin     .        .        .     555 

Pommes  de  Terre  (Potatoes). 

„  a  la  Biguou  .  .  .  535 
„  a  la  Chancerelle  .  .  533 
„  a  la  Duchesse .  .  .  539 
„  a  la  Gastronome  .  ,  534 
„        a  la  Paysanue  .        .    532 

„  Chateau  ....  544 
„  Croquettes  a  la  Dauphine  550 
„  „  a  la  iloderne    548 

„  Farcies  ....  549 
„  Frites  a  la  Julienne  .  536 
„  Hachies  au  Gratin  .  .  543 
,.  Nouvelles  a  la  HoUandaise  546 
„  „    Sautees  au  Beurre  540 

Failles  (Straws)  .  .  538 
„  Parisienne  .  .  .  545 
,,  Sautees  a  la  Parisienne  .  542 
„  „       a  la  Suisse .        .    541 

„  Soufflees  .  .  .  .537 
„  „        a  la  St.  Louis    .     531 

.,        aux  Tomates  a  la  Savariu   547 
Salade  (Salad). 

„        a  la  Beauvilliers        .        .575 

„        a  la  Chinoise      .        .        .  581a 

„        a  la  Reyniere     .        .        .    574 

„        a  la  Viileroi       .        .        .    576 

deGibier    .        .        .        .581 

„        de  Homard        .        .        .    578 

„        de  Perdreau       .        .        .    580 

„        de  Tomates        .        .        .    577 

de  Volaille         .        .        .579 

Tomates  (Tomatoes). 

„  a  la  Bouquetiere   .        .     565 

„  Farcies  a  I'ltalienue      .    564 

Souffles  .        .        .         .566 


XLhc  ^Epicurean. 

CONTAINING    A    COMPLETE     TREATISE     OF     ANALYTICAL     AND 
PRACTICAL   STUDIES   ON    THE   CULINARY   ART. 

By   CHARLES  RANHOFER, 

CHEF  OF  DELMONICO'S  (MADISOX  PQ0ARE,  NEW  YORK). 

Large  8vo.     Nearly  1,200  pages.     3,700   Recipes.      Illustrated 

with  800  Engravings. 

Price  :  Cloth,  85^. ;  half-morocco,  i-is. ;  full  morocco,  52s. 

Carriage  free  in  the  United  Kingdom. 


FOR   SALE    BY 

Ch.    HERMAN    SENN, 

329    VAUXHALL    BRIDGE    ROAD,  LONDON,  S.W. 


PAET    VI. 

MENUS  ^ND  THEIR  COMFIIHTION 

Specimen  JfLenixs  of   Iiuneheons 
iDinnet's   and  Suppers 

FOR    HOTELS,    RESTAURANTS,  CLUBS,  AND   PRIVATE   FAMILIES 

FOR    ALL    OCCASIONS 
IN   ENGLISH,   FRENCH,    AND    OTHER   LANGUAGES 

IXCLUDIXG     A     COLLECTION     OF 

ANCIENT  AND  HUMOROUS  BILLS  OF  FARE 

NAMES    OF    WINES 


45 


HOW  TO  PREPAKE  A  BILL  OF  FARE. 


To  make  a  bill  of  fare  with  ease, 
And  one  that's  always  sure  to  please, 

Start  "  soup  "  as  a  beginner. 
Next  in  order  comes  the  **  fish," 
Then  some  little  dainty  dish 
To  take  away  the  taste  of  fish, 

And  pave  the  way  for  dinner. 
Then  the  *•  joints"  can  be  put  in; 
Eoasts  and  boileds  to  choose  between  ; 
Two  of  each  is  right,  I  ween. 
Next  come  the  "  vegetables" — 
Not  too  many  ;  you  can  fix 
All  the  way  from  three  to  six 
Viand-groaning  tables. 
Then  the  "  entrees  "  find  a  place 
(All  tid-bits  and  meant  to  brace 

A  waning  appetite) ; 
These  should  be  not  more  than  three, 
Made  daintily  so  as  to  be 

The  epicure's  delight. 
Here  a  "  punch"  should  come  between,  I  reason, 
And  game  along  with  it  (if  in  season). 
The  "  pie  "  and  '<  pudding,"  "  fruit  "  and  "  cake," 
And  last  some  "  liquor." — Now,  what  '11  you  take  ? 

John  Willy. 


MENUS 

AND    THEIR    COMPILATION, 


"Menu  mal  fait,  diner  perdu." — Bp.illat-Savaein. 

Although  there  is  hardly  a  dmner  served  nowadays 
without  each  guest  being  provided  with  a  sort  of  pro- 
gramme of  the  dinner — or,  as  it  is  called  in  English 
*'  Bill  of  Fare  " — our  forefathers  in  the  time  of  yore  had 
no  need  for  them  ;  they  contented  themselves  by  merely 
looking  at  the  dishes  as  they  came  on  the  table  to  judge 
the  nature  of  the  \dands. 

The  use  of  menus  was  first  heard  of  in  1541,  when, 
at  a  banquet  given  by  the  Duke  Henry  of  Brunswick, 
his  Grace  was  seen  to  have  a  long  piece  of  paper  by 
the  side  of  his  plate,  to  which  he  occasionally  referred. 
One  of  the  duke's  guests  asked  what  the  paper  was  for, 
and  on  its  being  explained  that  it  was  a  sort  of  pro- 
gramme of  what  they  were  going  to  eat,  and  by  looking 
through  it  he  could  reserve  his  appetite  for  those  dishes 
he  Hked  best,  the  idea  was  so  much  admired  that  it 
soon  became  generally  known  and  adopted.  The  old- 
fashioned  bills  of  fare  were  usually  written  on  large 
cards  gaudily  ornamented  with  gastronomic  symbols, 
&c. ;  they  were,  however,  of  such  a  size  that  only  one 
copy  could  be  conveniently  placed  at  each  end  of  the 
table. 


706  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

The  size  of  these  cards  was  gradually  dimmished, 
and,  as  they  became  smaller,  larger  numbers  were 
placed  at  the  table,  so  that  at  this  time  each  guest  is 
provided  with  a  printed  menu  card. 

To  set  up  a  menu  is  an  art,  and,  whatever  may  be 
said  to  the  contrary,  the  style  of  it  adds  much  to  the 
popularity  of  a  dinner. 

It  gives  one,  as  it  were,  a  foretaste  of  the  cliefs  ability, 
and  a  confidence  is  consequently  inspired.  This  is,  no 
doubt,  as  important  to  a  successful  issue  as  is  the  faith 
in  a  doctor's  nostrums. 

Modern  menus,  as  a  rule,  are  much  prettier  got  up 
than  those  of  olden  times.  In  the  matter  of  material  for 
menus,  white  paper  is  mostly  used,  but  more  expensive 
material  is  much  used  also.  I  have  seen  some  made 
of  silk,  papier-mache  ;  some  in  the  form  of  shells,  books, 
almanacks,  cigars,  cigarettes,  matchboxes,  newspapers, 
maps,  post-cards,  bank-notes,  blank  covers,  envelopes, 
&c.  Menus  in  the  shape  of  envelopes  are  particularly 
pretty,  and  now  very  much  in  favour.  One  takes  the 
form  of  a  small,  delicately-coloured  envelope  of  thin 
cardboard,  decorated  with  gold;  the  flap  is  engraved  with 
a  motto,  crest,  name  of  host  or  hostess,  some  flowers, 
or  a  knife  and  fork  crossed  and  a  sprig  of  herbs ;  the 
post-mark  is  "  Bon  Appetit."  On  the  address  side  is  a 
stamp  in  gold,  with  some  gastronomic  design,  and  a 
post-mark  bearing  the  name  of  the  place  where  the 
meal  is  given,  with  the  respective  date  and  name  of  the 
diner.     The  enclosure  is,  of  course,  the  menu  itself. 

Hand-painted  menus  on  paper,  parchment,  and  satin 
are  in  great  favour  in  all  Society  circles.  Some  of  the 
newest  have  a  miniature  of  the  host  or  hostess  painted 
in  the  centre,  and  are  occasionally  the  work  of  noted 
artists. 


MENUS    AND    THEIR    COMPILATION  707 

In  England,  America,  and  France  mncli  art  and 
luxury  have  been  lavished  on  menu  cards.  Parchment 
of  the  Middle  Ages  competes  with  Japanese  rice-paper. 
Some  menus,  with  their  seals  and  ribbons,  are  like  a 
charter  of  nobility,  whilst  others  are  in  the  form  of 
beautiful  miniature  fans. 

For  some  time  there  has  been  a  reaction  against 
extravagant  luxury,  which  is  being  replaced  by  a  sim- 
plicity not  less  excessive.  Sometimes  the  names  of  the 
dishes  are  written  by  hand  on  thick  paper,  without  any 
ornamentation.  As  usual,  the  best  kind  are  between 
these  excesses  of  ostentation  and  severity.  Menus  of 
out-of-the-way  and  awkward  shapes  are  at  all  times  to  be 
avoided,  because  they  encumber  the  table  and  are 
difficult  to  consult. 

Without  microscopical  print,  they  should  be  suffi- 
ciently small  to  be  readable  without  remark,  and  not  add 
to  the  embarrassment  caused  by  a  succession  of  glasses 
and  other  articles  on  the  table.  The  menu  card  is  a 
simple  accessory,  and  should  be  treated  as  such.  This 
rule  ought  to  be  taken  into  consideration  when  ordering 
the  shapes  and  sizes. 

When  a  menu  card  has  too  much  prominence  given 
at  the  table,  we  run  the  risk  of  it  being  said  that  "  the 
dinner  on  the  paper  is  better  than  that  on  the  plates." 

Among  the  many  points  that  a  cook  has  to  study 
in  order  to  be  perfect  in  his  profession,  the  composition 
of  a  menu  is  undoubtedly  one  of  the  most  important. 

The  number  of  guests  for  which  a  meal  is  to  be 
provided  must  first  of  all  be  taken  into  considera- 
tion ;  then  the  style — that  is  to  say,  whether  it  is  to  be 
an  expensive  or  plain  luncheon,  dinner,  or  supper  that 
is  required,  for  the  menus  are  generally  compiled 
according  to  the  means  and  positions  of  the  guests. 


708  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

The  bills  of  fare  vary  according  to  the  seasons  of  the 
year,  and  are  made  up  as  a  rule  vdth  dishes  appropriate 
to  the  times  ;  there  are  also  certain  rules  and  regula- 
tions which  must  at  all  times  be  strictly  observed. 

In  compiling  a  menu  it  is  necessary  to  study  the 
variety  of  dishes,  and  their  selection,  for  each  dish 
should  vary  by  its  colour  and  taste  from  those  served 
before  or  after.  The  character  of  dishes  must  be  retained 
throughout ;  sauces  should  correspond  in  taste  and 
colour  with  the  viands  with  which  they  are  intended 
to  be  served.  If  there  are  two  soups  quoted  on  a 
menu,  one  ought  to  be  clear  and  the  other  thick ; 
should  the  thick  soup  be  a  puree  of  vegetables,  the  clear 
soup  must  contain  no  vegetable  roots  as  garnishing. 

When  two  or  more  fish  are  to  be  served,  the  first,  as 
a  rule,  is  boiled,  and  generally  a  large  fish,  such  as 
turbot,  salmon,  cod,  &c. ;  the  next  one  would  be  a  small 
fish,  either  fi-ied  or  broiled.  Whitebait  are  often  served 
as  a  third  fish. 

The  entrees  should  always  be  so  classified  that 
light  dishes,  such  as  rissoles,  bouchees,  croquettes, 
quenelles,  kromeskis,  &c.,  are  served  first  of  all. 

If  there  are  two  removes,  poultry  is  served  before 
the  butcher's  meat. 

The  cardinal  point  is  to  have  all  dressed  removes 
served  before  the  plain  roasted  ones. 

What  is  called  the  second  service  on  a  menu  in- 
cludes the  roast,  the  savoury,  and  the  sweet  entremets, 
the  dessert,  and  cheese.  When  two  or  more  sweets  are 
served,  the  first  one  is  to  be  hot  and  the  other  cold. 

If  fancy  savouries  are  given,  they  come  in  after  the 
sweets,  for  they  are  intended  to  prepare  the  palate  for 
the  taste  of  the  choice  wines  which  usually  follow  a  good 
dinner. 


MENUS    AND    THEIR    COMPILATION  709 

In  preparing  a  bill  of  fare  for  a  large  dinner  it  is 
advisable  to  avoid  such  dishes  which  are  difficult  to 
dress  when  done  in  a  great  number,  for  they  will  cause 
complication  and  needless  profusion  in  the  kitchen,  and 
often  lead  to  a  confusion  in  the  service.  It  is  also  most 
unwise  to  use  new  names  of  dishes  which  are  not  known, 
or  which  may  be  known  under  a  different  title,  for  they 
will  only  puzzle  the  diner,  who  might  not  know  the 
technical  names  of  old  dishes.  Avoid  also  the  use  of 
pompous  names  of  dishes,  especially  when  the  cost  for 
their  preparation  is  not  known,  for  they  often  lead  to 
confusion  and  disappointment.  The  names  of  high- 
standing  personalities,  towns,  countries,  &c.,  are  applied 
in  connection  with  many  dishes ;  the  French  cuisme 
especially  has  the  names  given  to  dishes  in  honour  of 
men  who  gained  their  celebrity  either  by  their  talent  as 
diplomats,  statesmen,  soldiers,  artists,  or  such  who 
have  distinguished  themselves  by  their  gastronomic  or 
epicurean  merits.  Hence  we  have  such  names  in  con- 
nection with  certain  dishes  as  LucuUus,  Savarin, 
Louis  XV.,  Soubise,  Kichelieu,  Careme,  Maintenon, 
Conde,  Colbert,  Villeroy,  Talleyrand,  Nesselrode,  Demi- 
doff,  Marie-Louise,  Montglas,  Victoria,  &c. 

These  names,  as  well  as  many  others,  are  associated 
with  various  culinary  preparations,  and  are  recognised 
by  cooks  of  all  nations. 

There  are,  unfortunately,  some  narrow-minded 
cuisiniers  who  are  in  the  habit  of  altering  the  genuine 
names  of  dishes,  to  which  they  adopt  some  other  high- 
sounding  names,  in  order  to  make  themselves  famous, 
but  will  only  succeed  in  making  themselves  look  ridi- 
culous and  small  in  the  eyes  of  a  real  gourmand,  who  is 
not  likely  to  be  thus  deceived.  If,  however,  the  com- 
position of  a   certain  dish  is  due    to  the   talent    and 


710 


PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 


initiative  of  tlie  cook,  then  the  case  is  different,  and  he 
■will  have  a  perfect  right  to  name  such  a  dish  according 
to  his  fancy. 

The  importance  of  a  well-composed  menu  is  so  great 
that  it  adds  to  the  success  of  a  dinner  in  a  great 
measure,  whilst  a  defectively  composed  menu  may 
compromise  the  reputation  of  a  good  chef.  Although 
the  menu  may  be  of  little  use  to  some  people,  it  is  in- 
dispensable to  connoisseurs  who  understand  the  language 
of  the  kitchen,  for  they  will  be  able  to  judge  the  kind 
of  dinner  on  analysing  the  menu,  and  by  so  doing  be 
able  to  give  their  verdict  as  to  the  capacity  of  the  chef, 
according  to  the  arrangement  of  the  dishes  and  the 
combination  of  the  ■sdands. 


MENUS    AND    THEIR    COMPILATION  711 


SIX  SPECIMEN  MENUS  OF  ENGLISH  DINNERS. 


(1) 

White  celery  soup. 

Codfish  and  caper  sauce. 

Lobster  croquettes. 

Fillets  of  beef  with  olives. 

Small    chartreuses    of    game. 

Fricandeau  of  veal  with  spinach. 

Roast  turkey  and  sausages. 

Broccoli.  Potato  croquettes.  Brussels  sprouts. 

Plum  pudding.         Mince  pies. 

Stewed  pears,    whipped   cream. 

Pineapple  toast. 

(2) 

Clear  soup  with  custard. 
Baked  turbot,  wine  sauce. 

Fried  fillets  of  soles. 

Boudin  of  veal  with  truflles. 

Fillets  of  beef   with  vegetables. 

Boiled   turkey,   onion  sauce. 

Boiled  ham. 

Boast  wild  duck. 

Russian    salad. 

American  pudding.         Mince  pies. 

Ribbon  jelly.  Chocolate  eclairs. 

(3) 

Grouse  soup. 

John  Dory,  wine  sauce. 

Lobster  cutlets.         Stew^ed  Bordeaux  pigeons. 

Roast  haunch  of  mutton. 

Boiled  turkey  and   tongue. 

Mashed  potatoes.  Spinach. 

Wild  ducks,  orange  sauce. 

Plum  pudding.  Mince  pies. 

Apples  a  la  Conde.        Pineapple  jelly. 


712  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

SIX  SPECIMEN  MENUS  OF   ENGLISH   DINNERS 

{continued). 

(4) 

Palestine  soup.         Gravy  soup. 

Boiled  cod,  caper  sauce.  Fried  smelts. 

Mutton  cutlets,  tomato  sauce.     Chicken  croquettes. 

Salmis  of  partridges.      Beef  olives. 

Boiled  turkey,  celery  sauce.  Koast  sirloin  of  beef. 

Mashed  potatoes.         Broccoli.         Brussels  sprouts. 

Eoast  pheasants. 

Bloaters    on   toast. 

Rizine  pudding.  Tipsy  cake. 

Orange   jelly.  Pineapple    cream. 

Mince  pies.       Cheese  cakes. 

(5) 

Clear  oxtail  soup. 

Turbot,    lobster    sauce. 

Stewed  eels. 

Fried  sweetbreads. 

Fillets  of  beef,  with  mushrooms. 

Croquettes  of  game. 

Shoulder  of  mutton,  boned  and  stuffed ;    puree  of  haricot  beans. 

Braised  turkey,  chestnut  sauce. 

Potatoes  mashed.      Stewed  celery.     Brussels  sprouts. 

Golden  plovers.     Potato  chips. 

Scotch  woodcock. 

Plum  pudding.         Mince  pies.         Nougats  with  cream. 

Chocolate  cream.     Claret  jelly.     Venus  pudding. 

(6) 

Clear  soup  a  la  Royale. 

Sevigne  soup. 

Turbot,  Tartare  sauce. 

Fried  smelts. 

Supreme  of  chickens.         Macaroni  timbales. 

Mutton  cutlets  a  lareforme.      Fillets  of  rabbit,  liver  sauce. 

Boiled  turkey,  celery  sauce.         Tongue. 

Roast  sirloin  of  beef,   horseradish  sauce. 

Spinach.       Jerusalem  artichokes.      Potato  croquettes 


MENUS    AND    THEIR    COMPILATION 


713 


SIX  SPECIMEN  MENUS  IN  ENGLISH  AND  FRENCH. 


(1) 

Tapioca   soup, 

Potage  au  tapioca. 

Breast  of  veal  a  la  poulette, 

Tendrons  de  veau  a  la  poulette. 

Fillets  of  sole  k  I'Orly, 

tomato  sauce, 

Filets  de  soles  a  VOrly, 

sauce  tomates. 

Koast  leg'  of  mutton, 

Gigot  roti. 

Puree  of  haricot  beans, 

Puree  dliaricots. 

Bavarian  cream  and  fruit, 

JSavarois  aiix  fruits. 

(3) 

Bread  soup, 

Potage  au  pain. 

Boiled  beef,  Kobert  sauce, 

Piece  de  hoeuf  a  la  sauce 

Roiert. 

Stewed  roe, 

Casseroles  de  laitances. 

Roast  chump  of  veal, 

Qiiartier      de    vcau     roti. 

Asparagus, 

Asperges  en  branches. 

Virgin   cream, 

Creme  vierge. 

(5) 

Green  pea  soup, 

Potage  a%ix  p)<^tits  pois. 

Hot  salmon-pie, 
Pate  chaud  de  saumon. 

Mutton  cutlets  k  la  jardiniere, 
Cotelettes  de  mouton  jardiniere. 

Glazed  ham, 
Janihon  glace. 

Vegetable  salad, 
Salade  de  legumes. 

Apple  fritters, 
Beignets  de  pomnies. 


/2) 

Crecy  soup, 

Potage  yuree  Crecy, 

Broiled  whiting, 
Merlans  grilles. 

Glazed  shoulder  of  lamb, 
Epaule  d^agneau  glacee. 

Roast  fowls, 
Poulets  rotis. 

Peas  and  bacon, 
Pois  au  lard. 

Croquenbouche, 
Croquenhouche. 

(4) 

Spring  soup, 

Potage  2^'^intanier. 

Boiled  bass,  shrimp  sauce, 

Bar  houilli,  sauce  crevettes. 

Beef  marrow  a  I'Orly, 

Moelle  de  hoeuf  a  VOrly. 

Roast  leg  of  Southdown  mutton,. 

Gigot  de pre-sale  roti. 

Sauteed  potatoes, 

Pomnies  sautees. 

Almond  cakes, 

Gateau  d'amande  massif. 

(6) 

Sorrel  soup, 

Potage  a  Voseille. 

Sole  stuffed  with  mixed  herbs,. 

Solefarcie  an x  fines  herhes. 

Rissoles  of  cockscombs  and 

truffles, 

■    Rissoles  de  cretcs  de  coq  et  de 

truffes. 

Roast  fillet  of  beef. 

Filet  de  hoeuf  roti. 

Stewed  chicory, 

Chicoree  aujus. 

Iced  strawberry  souffle. 

Souffle  glace  aux  fraises. 


714 


PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 


SPECIMEN  MENUS  OF  LUNCHEONS  AND  DINNERS  AT 
FIXED  PRICES. 

HOTEL      2^:Eil>rjJ3. 


Luncheon  at  lOd.  to  Is. 

Luncheon  at  Is.  3d.  to  Is. 

Soup. 

Soup. 

Joint. 

Light  entr6e. 

Vegetables. 

Koast  joint. 

Vegetables  and  cheese. 

Luncheon  at  2s. 

Luncheon  at  2s.  6d. 

Soup. 

Soup. 

Fish. 

Fish. 

Joint. 

Choice  of  entree  or  joint, 

Vegetables. 

Vegetables. 

Salad  and  cheese. 

Poultry  and  salad. 

Cheese. 

Dinner  at  3s. 

Dinner  at  3s.  6d. 

Soup. 

Soup. 

Fish.     . 

Fish. 

Entree. 

Entrees. 

Joint  and  vegetables. 

Joint  and  vegetables. 

Poultry  or  game. 

Poultry  or  game. 

Salad. 

Salad. 

Sweets. 

Sweets.    Cheese. 

Dinner  at  48. 

Dinner  at  4s.  6d. 

Soup. 

Soup. 

Fish. 

2  Fish. 

2  Entrees. 

2  Entries. 

Joint  and  vegetables. 

1  Remove. 

Poultry  or  game. 

1  Roast. 

Salad  and  fried  potatoes. 

Vegetables. 

Sweets. 

2  Sweets. 

Dessert.     Cheese. 

Fruit  and  dessert. 

Cheese. 

MENUS    AND    THEIR    COMPILATION  715 

SPECIMEN  MENUS  OF  LUNCHEONS  AND  DINNERS  AT 
FIXED  PRICES. 

Here  is  a  specimen  menu  of  a  London  restaurant : — 
Luncheon,  2s.  6d.    (No  attendance.)     From  1  p.m.  till  3. 

Pot  age. 
Consomme  au  riz. 

Poisson. 
Cabillaud  grille  au  beurre  d'anchois. 

Ufitree. 
Veau  a  la  Marengo. 

Poti. 
C6t6  de  boeuf  roti. 

Zegumes. 
Artiohauts.      Pommes  maitre  d'hotel. 

Fro7naffe. 


The  following  is  a  specimen  menu  of  a  3s.  table 
d'hote  :— 

Soiij). 
Clear  ox-tail. 

Fish. 
Fillets  of  sole  ^  I'Orly. 

Pfitree. 
Lamb  cutlets. 

Vegetables. 
Green  peas.     Mashed  potatoes. 

Poast. 
Chicken  with  cresses.     Straw  potatoes. 

jSfveets. 
Cabinet  pudding.     Cheese. 


716 


PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 


LUNCHEONS  AND 


DINNERS  AT 

{continued). 


FIXED  PRICES 


Dinner  at  3s.  6d, 

Potage  a  la  Windsor. 

Surmulet  grille,  sauce 

matelote. 

Escalopes  de  lapereaux  aiix 

pointes   d'asperges. 

Pintade  rotie. 

Navets  au  jus. 

Beignets  de  f raises. 

Dinner  at  4s. 

Consomme  a  la  Julienne. 

Turbot  bouilli,  sauce 

hollandaise. 
Croquettes  de  volaille, 

sauce  tomate 

Gigot  de  m  out  on  roti. 

Haricots  verts  sautes. 

Faisan  roti. 

Pommes  f rites.     Salade. 

Gateau  d'amandes. 

Dessert. 

Fromaere. 


(Translated.) 

Windsor  soup. 
Red  mullets,  matelote 

sauce. 

Scallops  of  3'oung  rabbits 

with  asparagus  points. 

Roast  guinea  fowl. 

Braised  turnips. 
Strawberry  fritters. 

(Translated.) 
Julienne  clear  soup. 
Boiled  turbot,  Dutch 
sauce. 
Chicken  croquets,  tomato 
sauce. 
Roast  leg  of  mutton. 
French  beans,  sauteed. 

Roast  pheasant. 

Fried  potatoes.     Salad. 

Almond  cake. 

Dessert. 

Cheese. 


MENUS  OF  DINNERS  AS  SERVED  IN  LONDON  CLUBS. 


3s.  Dinners. 


Clear  soup  with  rice,  or 

Puree  of  carrots. 

Fried  slip,  anchovy  sauce. 

Hashed  mutton. 

Roast  beef. 

Brussels  sprouts  and  potatoes. 

Rhubarb  tart,  or  ice. 


Tapioca  soup,  or 

Pur^e  of  leeks. 

Boiled  trout  or  Whitebait. 

Stewed  pigeons. 
Roast  forequarter  of  lamb. 

Macaroni  cheese. 
Open  cherry  tart,  or  Fruit  jelly. 


4s.  Dinners. 


Consomme  vermicelle. 

Puree  aux  huitres. 

Raie  au  beurre  noir. 

Poulet  saute  a  I'italienne. 

Boeuf  roti. 

Petits  pois  ^  I'anglaise. 

Pouding  cabinet. 

Glace  a  I'orange. 

Dessert. 


Clear  soup  with  lettuce  leaves. 

Baked  sole. 

Timbale  of  game  au  chasseur. 

Chicken  with  tomato  sauce. 

Roast  leg  of  mutton. 

Chopped  asparagus  with  cream. 

Apple  tart  and  Rizine  custard. 

Macedoine  of  fruit. 

Dessert. 


MENUS   AND    THEIR   COMPILATION 


717 


DINNERS  AS  SERVED  IN  LONDON  CLUBS 

{contimied'). 
5s.  Dinners. 


Hors-d'oeuvres. 

Consomme  printanier  k  la  royale. 

Filets  de  maquereaux  a  la 

Venitienne. 

Rougets  au  gratin. 

Bouchees  k  la  Montglas, 

Noix  de  veau,  sauce  Perigueux. 

Volaille  de  Bresse  roti. 
PommesDachesse.         Tomates 
farcies.  Choux-fleurs  k  la  creme. 
Croute  aux  fruits. 

Petits  fours. 
Glace  aux  fraises. 


Brunoise. 
Pea  Soup. 
Salmon  and  lobster  sauce. 

Whitebait. 
Vol-au-vent  of  sweetbreads. 

Lamb  cutlets  with  peas. 
Boast  beef.         Boiled  fowl. 
Rissoles.     Potatoes, 
Brussels  sprouts. 
Balmoral  pudding. 
Jelly  and  pastry. 
Vanilla  ice. 
Dessert. 


TABLE    D'HOTE  MENUS. 


At  4s.  6d. 

hORS-DCEUVRES. 
Sardines.         Butter. 

POTAGES. 

Printanier  k  la  royale. 
Bonne  femme, 

POISSON. 

Saumon,  sauce  persil. 
Soles  frites. 

ENTREES. 

Rissoles  de  volaille. 
Ris  de  veau  jardiniere. 

ROTI. 

Lamb  and  mint  sauce. 
New  peas  and  jDotatoes, 

ENTREMETS. 

Genoise  glacee. 
Chocolat  ice. 

FROMAGE. 

Stilton.         Gruyere. 
Gorgonzola. 

DESSERT, 

Varies. 


At  5s. 

HORS-DCEUVRES. 

Varies. 

POTAGES. 

Consomme  aux  quenelles. 
Puree  de  haricots  bretonne. 

POISSON. 

Filets  de  turbot  de  Reyniere. 
Blanchailles. 

ENTREES. 

Croustade  de  ris  d'agneau. 
Pigeon  en  compote. 

RELEVE. 

Handle  de  venaison. 

ROTI, 

Poularde  au  cresson. 

ENTREMETS, 

Fonds  d'artichauts  italienne. 

Glace  Napolitaine, 

Patisserie. 

DESSERT. 

Fromages. 


718 


PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 


TABLE   D'HOTE   MENUS  {contiaued). 


At  6s. 

HORS-D'CEUVRES. 

Varies. 

POTAGES. 

Julienne.     Parmentiei. 

POISSONS. 

Saumon  grille  maitre  d'hotel. 

Sole  au  gratin. 

Whitebait. 

ENTREES. 

Bouchees  Dauphine. 

Escalopes  x^ortugaises. 

Caneton  en  comp  ote. 

RELEVE 

Gigot  de  mouton  a  la 
Bretonne. 

ROTI 

Cailles. 
Pommes  pailles. 
Salade  de  saison. 

ENTREMETS. 
Asperges,  sauce  hollandaise. 

Pouding  a  la  Creole. 

GLACES. 

Aus  fiaises. 

DESSERT    ASSORTI. 

Cafe  noir. 


At  7s.  6d. 

SOUPS. 

Mulligatawny.     Italian  paste. 

FISH. 

Salmon  trout  and  lobster  sauce. 

Fried  fillets  of  sole,  tartare 
sauce. 

ENTREES. 

Sweetbreads  in  cases. 

Pigeons  and  peas. 

REMOVES. 

Lamb  and  mint  sauce. 

Boiled  chicken  ^t  parsley  sauce. 

Ham  and  Madeira  sauce. 

VEGETABLES. 

Boiled   potatoes. 

Asparagus,  supreme  sauce. 

Saute  potatoes. 

SWEETS. 

Gooseberry  tart. 
Genoise  glacee. 
Macedoine  jelly. 
Ice  pudding. 
Cheese.    Eizine  i-avoury. 
Salad. 

DESSERT. 
Cafe  noir. 


MENUS   AND    THEIR   COMPILATION 


719 


HOTEL    DINNERS. 


At  7s.  6d.  (4  to  6  Covers). 

SOUPS. 

Thick  ox  tail.      Paysanne. 

FISH. 

Salmon  and  lobster  sauce. 
Whitebait. 

ENTREES. 

Sweetbreads  in  cases. 
Chicken  saute  and  peas. 

REMOVES. 

Ribs  of  beef  and  horseradish. 
Saddle  of  mutton  and  red- 
currant  jelly. 

VEGETABLES. 

Boiled  potatoes. 
Saute  potatoes. 
Cauliflower 
and  bechamel  sauce. 

SWEETS. 

Spanish  pudding. 

Maids  of  honour. 

Macedoine  jelly. 

Cheese.     Salad. 

DESSERT. 


At  8s.  6d.  (4  to  6  Covers). 

POT  AGES. 

Consomme  aux  legumes. 
Puree  de  volaille  aux  profiteroles. 

POISSONS. 

Blanchailles. 
Truites,  sauce  hollandaise. 

entre'es. 

Ris  d'agneau  ^  la  financiere. 
Chaudfroid  de  cailles  t  la  gelee. 

RELEVES. 

Selle  de  mouton. 
Poulardes  braisees.      Langue. 

LEGUMES. 

Haricots  verts  sautes. 
Puree  de  pommes. 
Aubergines  farcies. 

ROT. 

Canetons  et  petits  pois. 
Pommes  soufflees. 
Salade  de  saison. 

ENTREMETS. 

Savarin  aux  abricots. 

Creme  de  pistaches. 

Glace  aux  fraises. 

Petites  bouch^es  au  fromage. 

Fromages. 

DESSERT. 


Cafe  noir. 


N.B. — The  Menus  herein  quoted  at  fixed  prices  are  mostly 
specimens  as  served  in  London  Clubs,  Hotels,  and  Restaurants. 
They  can  be  taken  as  an  average  criterion  of  the  ordinary 
business,  but  the  number  and  the  class  of  guests,  the  season  as 
well  as  the  places  where  dinners  are  to  be  served,  should  always 
be  taken  into  consideration  when  quoting  prices,  as  such  may 
entail  some  alteration. 

46 


720 


PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 


HOTEL    DINNER  at  10s.  6d. 


Service  a  la  Russe. 


MENU. 
Melon. 

POTAGES. 

Creme  de  mais, 
Printanier  royale. 

HORS-D'CEUVRE. 

Petites  timbales  LucuUus. 

POISSON. 

Darne  de  saumon  a  la  Chambord. 

RELEVES. 

Selle  d'agneau  Parisienne. 

Pommes  Duchesse. 

Haricots  verts. 

Tomates  farcies. 

ENTREES. 

Mousse  Belmond. 

Ris  de  veau  a  la  MoDtpensier, 

Homard  a  la  Russe. 

Punch  a  I'lmperiale. 


Perdreaux. 


ROT. 

Salade  Venitienne. 


ENTREMETS. 

Celeri  a  la  moelle. 
Gelee  Marie-Louise. 
Gateau  de  fantaisie. 

DESSERT. 


BILL    OF    FABE. 
Melon. 

SOUPS. 

Cream  of  maize. 
Royal  spring. 

HORS-D'CEUVRES. 

Small  timbales,  LucuUus  style. 

FISH. 

Middle  of  salmon,  Chambord 
style. 

REMOVES. 

Saddle  of  lamb,  Parisian  style. 
Duchesse  potatoes. 

French  beans. 
Stuffed  tomatoes. 

ENTREES. 

Mousse  Belmond. 

Sweetbread  Montpensier  style. 

Lobster  a  la  Russe. 

Imperial  punch. 

ROAST. 

Partridges.     Venetian  salad. 

SWEETS. 

Celery  with  maiTOw. 

Marie- Louise  jelly. 

Fancy  cake. 

DESSERT. 


MENUS   AND   THEIR   COMPILATION 


721 


HOTEL   DINNEH   at   12s.  6d. 

Service  a  la  Franeaise. 


MENU. 

"  Eestituez  vos  forces  avec  les  viandes, 
et  r^jouissez  vos  ames  avec  les  vins." 

HORS-D'CEUVRES, 
POTAGES. 

Pur6e  de  tomates. 
Fausse  tortue. 

POISSONS. 

Turbot,  sauce  homard. 
Anguille  braisee  a  la  Nelson. 

ENTREES, 

Filet  de  boeuf . 

Champignons  frais. 

Tete  de  veau  en  tortue. 

RELEVES. 

Selle  de  pre-sale. 
Poulet  bouilli,  sauce  persil, 
Jambon  braise  au  Champagne. 
Caneton  d'Aylesbury  roti. 

GIBIER. 

Faisans,  Perdreaux,  Gelinottes. 
Salade. 

ENTREMETS. 

Ponding  Cabinet. 

Cr^me  au  chocolat. 

Gel^e  au  vin. 

Glace  soufflee  aux  fraises. 

Patisserie. 

Souffles  au  Parmesan. 

DESSERT.  I 


BILL    OF    FARE. 

"Eestore  your  strength  "with  meat, 
and  cheer  your  souls  with  wine." 

HORS-D'CEUVRES. 
SOUPS. 

Puree  of   tomato. 
Mock  turtle. 

FISH. 

Turbot  and  lobster  sauce. 
Stewed  eel  a  la  Nelson. 

ENTREES. 

Fillet  of  beef. 

Fresh  mushrooms. 

Calf's  head  en  tortue. 

REMOVES. 

Saddle  of  Southdown  mutton. 
Boiled  chicken,  parsley  sauce. 
Braised  ham  and  champagne. 
Eoast  Aylesbury  duckling. 

GAME. 

Pheasants,  Partridges,  and 
Grouse.  Salad. 

SWEETS. 

Cabinet  pudding. 

Chocolate  cream. 

Wine  jellies. 

Iced  strawberry  souffles. 

Pastry. 

Parmesan  cheese  souffles. 
DESSERT. 


722 


PBACTICAL   GASTRONOMY 


BANQUET    MENUS. 
50  to  60  Covers,  at  6s. 


BILL.    OF    FARE. 

SOUPS. 

Portuguese. 
Vermicelli. 

FISH. 

Salmon  and  lobster  sauce. 
Grilled  mullet,  ravigote  sauce. 

ENTREES. 

Tournedos  ^  la  Gouffe. 
Chicken  saute  ^  la  Marengo. 

REMOVES. 

Lamb  and  mint  sauce. 

Fillet  of  beef,  Tuscan  style. 

Grilled  ham  and  peas. 

ROAST. 

Duckling  and  watercress. 
Chipped  potatoes. 

VEGETABLES. 

Boiled  potatoes. 

Saute  potatoes. 

Spinach. 

SWEETS. 

Apricot  meringues. 

Strawberry  tartlets. 

Macedoine  jelly. 

Gateau  Rizine.        Ice  pudding. 

Cheese.        Salad. 

DESSERT. 


MENU. 
HORS-D'OEUVRES. 

POTAGES. 

Consomm6  ^  la  Bourgeoise. 
Puree  Parmentier. 

POISSONS. 

Turbot,  sauce  hoUandaise. 
Filets  de  sole  k  I'Orly. 

ENTREES. 

Blanquette  de  veau  ^  la  Clamart. 
Tournedos  £L  la  Mirabeau. 

RELEVES. 

Selle  d'agneau,  sauce  menthe. 
Jambon  au  vin  de  Madere. 

Epinards  au  jus. 
Pommes  de  terre  Duchesse. 

ROT. 

Pigeons  rotis  au  cresson. 
Salade. 

ENTREMETS 

Mille-feuilles  k  la  Chantilly  aux 

fraises, 

Merluche  sur  toast. 

Mousse  {\  la  Cardinal. 

Petits  gateaux  Conde. 

DESSERT. 


MENUS   AND   THEIR  COMPILATION 


723 


BANQUET     M^'NTJB—icmitinued). 

70  to  80  covers,  at  7s.  6d.,  exclusive  of  Wines. 


Wines. 


Vermuto  di  Torino. 
Manzanilla. 

Haut  Sauterne, 
1878. 

Th.  Roederer, 
Extra  Eeserve 
Cuvee,  1880. 

Marganx,  1869. 

Seligmann  et  Cie. 
Verzenay  Cabinet. 

Deutz  et 

Geldermann, 

specially  selected 

1880. 

DBSSEET  WINES. 

Chateau 
Giscours,  1874. 

Royal  Port. 

Liqueurs. 


MENU. 

Hors-d'oeuvres. 
Caviar  et  anchois  sur  canap^. 
Consomme  k  la  reine,     Creme  de  laitue. 
Truite  saumonee  froide,  sauce 
ravigote. 
Filets  de  sole  au  vin  blanc. 
Coquille  de  homard  k  la  Bechamel. 

Caille  k  la  Souvaroff. 

Cotelettes  d'agneau  k  la  R6forme. 

Pommes  nouvelles. 


PUNCH  AU  CHAMPAGNE. 


Poularde  de  la  Bresse  k  la  casserole. 
Salade  de  laitue  k  la  creme. 

Salade  de  tomates. 

Rocher  de  foie  gras  en  aspic. 

Asperges  en  branche  k  I'huile. 

Saravin  k  la  Montmorency. 

Meringues  k  la  Chantilly. 

Biscuits  glaces  k  la  Royale. 

Croutes  de  Rizine. 


DESSEBT.        FRUITS  DE  SAISON. 


CAFE. 


724  PRACTICAL   GASTRONOMY 

BANQUET     MBl^mS—Ccontinued). 
50  to  60  covers  at  10s.  6d. 

Huitres. 

POTAGES. 

Tortue  claire.  Bisque  d'ecrevisses. 

HORS-D'CEUVRES. 

Petites  croustades  a  la  Venitienne. 

POISSONS. 

Truites  saumonees  4  la  Chambord. 
Timbales  de  filets  de  soles  k  la  Nelson. 

ENTREES. 

Cotelettes  de  cailles  a  la  chevreuse. 

Ris  de  veau  k  la  moderne. 
Aspics  de  homard  k  la  Bagration. 

RELEVES. 

Selle  de  mouton  k  I'Anglaise. 
Poulardes  k  rEcossaise.       Sorbet  k  la  Prince  de  Galles. 

ROTS. 

Canetons  d'Aylesbury.      Petits  pois  nouveaux. 

ENTREMETS. 

Asperges  en  branches. 

Souffles  chauds  a  la  printaniere.         Gelees  aux  fruits. 

Gateaux.        Petit  Due. 

G  LACES. 

Comtesse  Marie.        Corbeilles  k  la  Parisienne. 

SAVOURY. 

Eamequins  au  Parmesan. 

DESSERT. 

Cafe.         Liqueurs. 


MENUS   AND    THEIR   COMPILATION 


725 


BANQUET    MENJJB—iicontimed). 

80  to  100  covers  at  10s.  6d.,  exclusive  of  Wines. 


HorS' 

d'aeiivre . 
Potages . 

Poissons . 


Entrees . 


Brieves 


Botis : 
Entremets 


Glace  -: 
Dessert : 


Hnltres. 


Tortue  claire.     Bisque  de  homard 


Turbot,  sauce  genoise. 

Cabillaud,  sauce  hollandaise. 

Filets  de  soles  frits  k  la  tartare. 


Petits  vol-au- vents  ^  la  financiere 

Cotelettes  d'agneau  k  laMaintenon. 

Civet  de  levraut. 


Aloyau  de  boeuf  ^  I'anglaise. 
Hanche  de  venaison. 


Jambon  de  York  au  Madere. 


Epinards  ^  la  frangaise. 

Pommes  de  terre  soufltlees. 

Choux-fleurs  au  gratin. 


Perdreaux,  pommes  de  terre  frites. 


Pouding  diplomatique. — Patisserie 

melee. 

Gelee  A,  la  macedoine. 

Tourte  de  pommes.    Charlotte 

russe. 

Cr^me  ^  la  vanille. 

Compote  de  fruits. 


Pouding  a  la  Nesselrode. 


Ananas.     Melons.     Eaisin. 
Poires.    Noix. 


Cafe  et  liqueurs. 


Chablis. 
Amontillado. 


Hock  et 

Moselle. 

H.  &  G.  Hirscb, 

Mayence. 

Marcobrunner 

Auslese. 
Hochheimer. 


Sparkling 
Moselle. 

Magnums, 

Bollinger, 

Extra  quality. 

Perinet  et  fils, 

1880. 

Nuits. 


Chateau 

Lafitte. 

Chateau 

Palmer  1875 


Port  et 
Madeira. 


726  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 


BANQUET     M'EINJJS—Ccafitinued). 

HORS-D'CEUVRES. 

Lampreys  in  oil.  Sardines. 

Foie  gras.  Mortadella  saasage. 

SOUPS. 
Clear  turtle.  Bisque  d'ecrevisses. 

FISH. 

Salmon,  hollandaise  sauce  and  cucumber. 

Whitebait,  plain  and  devilled, 

FiUets  of  soles  bigarade. 

ENTR^&ES. 

Bouchees  a  la  reine. 

Venison  cutlets  en  papillotes. 

Sweetbreads  a  la  Portugaise. 

Chaudfroid  of  quail  cutlets. 


Punch  k  la  Romaine. 

REMOVES. 

Lamb  and  mint  sauce. 
Grilled  ham  and  peas. 

ROAST. 
Duckling  and  watercress.         Salad.        Chipped  potatoes. 


Mayonnaise  of  lobster. 

SWEETS. 

Peaches,  Richelieu  style. 

Apricot  meringues.  Vanilla  Charlotte. 

Chartreuse  of  strawberries. 

Compote  of  greengages.  Pyramid  of  ice  cream. 

Cheese.  Salad. 

Canape  of  caviar. 

DESSERT.  . 
Cafe  noir. 


MENUS   AND    THEIR   COMPILATION  727 


PRIVATE    DINNERS,  &c. 

12  to  15  covers  at  12s.  6d. 

Hultres  au  naturel. 

POTAGES. 

Mulligatawny  claire.  Tortue  liee. 

Pur6e  k  rAmericaine. 

POISSONS. 

Cotelettes  de  saumon  k  I'lndienne. 

Turbot,  sauce  Hollandaise. 

Filets  de  merlans  ^  la  Tartare. 

Entbees. 

Ris  de  veau  ^  la  financiere. 
Salmi  de  pluvier  ^  la  Careme. 

Kemoves. 

Poulet  4  la  Burmah.  Jambon  aux  Spinards. 

Dindon  aux  saucissons. 

Rots. 

Selle  de  mouton. 

Salade  k  rallemande. 

Faisans.  Champignons  frais  grilles. 

Entremets. 

Pouding  Moulmin.         Gelee  arrack.    Chartreuse  d'ananas 
Dames  d'honneur. 

Glaces. 
Gingembre  k  I'eau.  Cr^mfe  au  cafe. 


728  PRACTICAL   GASTRONOMY 

PRIVATE    DINNERS,    &.Q,— {continued). 

12  to  15  covers  at  15s. 

Huitres  en  coquilles. 

POTAGES. 
Tortue  verte  liee.  Consomme  Sevigne. 

HORS-D'CEUVRES. 

Varies.  Petites  timbales  Richelieu.  Varies. 

POISSON. 

Filets  de  saumon 

gamis  de  paupiettes  d'eperlans,  sauce  Maximilien. 

Paniers  de  tomates  et  concombres. 

RELEVES. 

Selle  de  mouton  ^  la  Soubise. 

Champignons  farcis.  Croquettes  de  pommes  de  terre. 

Haricots  verts  k  I'anglaise. 

ENTREES. 

Souffle  de  chapon  a  la  Regence. 

Pains  de  becasses  k  la  Saint-Hubert. 

Fonds  d'artichauts,  puree  de  trufEes. 

ROT. 

Canards  (canvas-back),  sauce  groseille. 
Salade  de  celeri  k  la  Brunswick. 

ENTREMETS. 

Allumettes  au  fromage. 
Glace  k  la  Rothschild. 
Turban  d'ananas  k  la  cr^me. 
Gateau  Cussy. 

DESSERT. 

Petits  fours.      Biscuits. 
Fromage. 

Demi-tasse. 


MENUS   AND   THEIR   COMPILATION  729 

PUBLIC   DINNER 

at  17s.  6d.  per  head,  inclusive  of  Wines. 

(20  to  30  Covers.) 

/Iftenu. 

Huitres. 

Chablis. 

* 

POTAGES. 

Consomme  de  volaille  aux  quenelles, 

Potage  imperiale. 

Shert-y. 

HORS-D'CEUVKE. 

Petites  croustades  LucuUus. 

POISSON. 

Turbot,  sauce  homard. 

Filets  de  bar  ^  la  Venitienne. 

Clos  du  Rocker. 

BELEVE. 

Tournedos   Rossini. 
Fleur  de  SUlery. 

ENTBEES. 

Chartreuse  diplomat  e. 

Cotelettes  d'agneau  macedoine. 

Aspic  de  foie  gras  en  Bellevue. 

Punch  a  la  lioinaine. 

BOTS. 

Poularde  truffee. 

Salade  panachee, 

Chamjpagne:  Moist  et  Chandon. 

ENTBEMETS. 
Asperges  en  branches,  sauce  hollandaise. 
Timbales  de  poires  Duchesse. 
Glace  de  fantaisie. 
Medoo  vieux.  Vieux  Malaga. 


730  PBACTICAL   GASTRONOMY 

DINNER 

at  20s.  per  head,  inclusive  of  Wines. 
(50  to  60  Covers.) 

HOBS-D'CEUVKES. 

Anchovy  salads.  Royans  in  oil. 

Canapes  of  caviare.  Goose  liver  sausage. 

Chahlis. 

SOUPS. 

Clear  and  thick  turtle. 
Madeira. 

FISH. 

Salmon  and  mousseline  sauce. 

Whitebait,  plain  and  devilled. 

Hock :  Rudesheimer. 

ENTKEES. 

Quail  cutlets  in  cases. 
Sweetbreads  4  la  Portugaise. 
^,  /  Devtz  et  Geldermann,  Gold  Lack, 

tnam^agnes  ^  Moet  et  CMndon,  Dry  Imperial. 

Plovers'  eggs  in  aspic. 

KEMOVES. 

Lamb  and  mint  sauce.        Salade  romaine. 

Saddle  of  venison. 


Grilled  reindeer  ham  and  peas.  1 
Mayonnaise  of  crawfish. 

EOAST. 

Duckling  and  watercress.       Chipped  potatoes. 


Asparagus.  StufEed  tomatoes. 

S"WEETS. 

Diplomatic  pudding.  Surprise  omelet. 

Peaches  a  la  Conde.  Ice  pudding. 

Cheese.  Salad. 

Broiled  oysters  on  toast. 

DESSERT. 

Port.  Claret, 

Cafe  noir  et  Cognac. 


MENUS   AND   THEIR   COMPILATION  731 

DINNER 

at  22s.  6d.  per  head,  inclusive  of  Wines, 
(30  to  40  Covers.) 

POTAGES. 

Tortue  claire. 
Consomm§  k  la  Marie  Louise. 

POISSONS. 

Saumon,  sauce  Hollandaise  et  Genevoise. 
Blanchailles. 

ENTKEES. 

Souffles  de  volaille  a  I'ambassadrice. 
Ris  de  veau  a  TArgenteuil. 

RELEVES. 

Quartier  d'agneau. 

Poulets  printanier.         Jambon  d'York. 

Pommes  nouvelles. 

Petits  pois.         Haricots  verts. 


Sorbets  ^  I'ananas. 

ROTIS. 

Cailles  et  Canetons  d'Aylesbury. 
Salades,  a  la  Grimod  et  ^  la  Frangaise. 

LEGUMES. 

Asperges  en  branches. 
Karl  k  I'orientale. 

ENTREMETS. 

Charlotte  a  la  polonaise. 

Glace  mousseuse. 

Pailles  au  parmesan  et  caviar. 
DESSERT. 

CARTE  DE  VINS. 

Punch. 

Amontillado. 

Marcobrunner. 

Hochheimer. 

Pommery  et  Greno. 

Hau  et  Cie. 

Chateau  Marganx. 

Oporto. 


732  PRACTICAL   GASTRONOMY 


DINNER  at  25s.  per  head. 

HORS-D'OEUVBES. 

Pickled  tunny  fish.  Sardines.  Lyons  sausage. 

Canapes  of  caviar,  Kemoulade  style. 

Saiderne. 

SOUPS. 
Clear  turtle.  Bisque  d'ecrevisses. 

JUadeira. 

FISH. 

Salmon,  Genoese  sauce  and  cucumber. 

Whitebait,  plain  and  devilled. 

Fillets  of  soles  and  Hollandaise  sauce. 

Hocli :  Laubeiiheimer. 

ENTREES. 

Bouchees  a  la  Princesse.  Sweetbreads  k  la  Portugaise. 

Champagnes :  Heidsieck  et  die. ;  Mumm  et  Cie. 

Punch  a  la  Ro.maine. 

REMOVES. 

Lamb  and  mint  sauce.  Salade  Romaine. 

Spring  chicken  and  parsley  sauce. 

Ham  and  Madeira,  Chaudfroid  of  quail  cutlets. 

Haunch  of  venison  and  red  currant  jelly. 

French  beans. 

Crayfish  and  asparagus  point  salad. 

ROAST. 
Duckling  and  watercress.  Chipped  potatoes. 


Giant  asparagus.        Green  peas,  French  style. 

S"W1EETS. 

Mocha  cake.  Charlotte,  Neapolitan  style. 

Chartreuse  of  pineapple.  Ice  pudding. 

Small  ice  biscuits. 

Liqueurs. 
Cheese.  Salad. 

DESSERT. 

Peaches.        Hot-house  grapes.        Strawberries.        Melon. 

Chateau- Montrose.  Ma  Vnisey. 

Cafe  noir  et  Cogiiac. 


MENUS   AND    THEIR   COMPILATION  733 

REGIMENTAL     DINNER 

at  27s.  6d.,  inclusive  of  "Wines. 

HOHS-D'CEUVBE. 

Huitres  au  citron. 
Chahlis. 

POTAGES. 

Consomme  a  la  fermi^re. 

Creme  cle  volaille. 

Tortue  liee. 

Dry  Sherry. 

POISSONS. 

Truite  du  Rhin,  sauce  Bordelaise, 
Mousse  de  merlans  ^  la  Dieppoise. 
Niersteiner.  . 

ENTKEES. 

Eis  de  veau  a  la  Toulouse. 

Cotelettes  d'agneau  aux  pointes  d'asperges. 

Dry  Tmjjerial,  Perinet  etfils. 

BELEVES. 

Filet  de  boeuf  a  la  Provengale. 

Pommes  de  terre  chateau. 

Jambon  au  vin  de  Madere. 

Epinards  au  jus. 

ROTI. 

Poulardes  roties  au  cresson. 
Salade  a  la  Perigord. 

Fonds  d'artichauts  farcis. 

ENTREMETS. 

Souffles  de  pommes  a  la  creme. 

Gelee  a  I'orange. 

Petits  gateaux  palmiers. 

Hareng  fume  sur  toast. 

Pouding  glace. 

Gaufrettes. 

Fi7ie  Cliampagne  Liqueur. 

DESSERT. 
Chateau  Marqnis  de  Terms. 
Old  Bottled  Port. 
Cafe  noir. 


734  PRACTICAL   GASTRONOMY 

PRIVATB    DINNER 

at  30s.  per  head,  inclusive  of  Wines. 

asm  of  3fare» 

HOKS-D'CEUVKES. 

Natives. 

Anchovy  salad.  Brunswick  sausage. 

Caviare  darioles.  Sardine  patties. 

Stuffed  plover's  eggs. 

Chahlis. 

SOUPS. 

Thick  and  clear  turtle. 
Madeira. 

FISH. 

Salmon-trout,  Victoria  style. 

Whitebait,  plain  and  de\illed.        Fillets  of  soles  au  gratin. 

Hoch :  Rudesheinier. 

ENTKEES. 

Bouchees  k  la  Montglas.  Sweetbreads  Portugaise. 

^,  f  Louis  Roederer's  Carte  Blanche^  1880  vin. 

Lnamjjagnes:  ^^^^^  ^^  Chandon,  Dry  Imperial,  1880  vin. 

Punch  a  la  Romaine. 

Chaudfroid  of  chicken,  Bellevue  style. 

KEMOVES. 

Roast  young  wild  boar. 

Lamb  and  mint  sauce.  Celery  and  truffle  salad. 

Grilled  ham  and  peas.       Mayonnaise  of  lobster. 

Boiled  capon  and  parsley  sauce. 

Larded  chamois  fillet  and  ox  tongue. 

EOAST. 

Ortolans  on  toast. 

Aylesbury  duckling  and  watercress.  Italian  salad. 

Puff  potatoes. 

SV^EETS. 

Gateau  Trois  Freres.       Savarin  with  maraschino  syrup. 

Macedoine  of  fruit  in  jelly.  Nesselrode  ice  pudding. 

Liqueurs, 

Cheese.  French  Salad. 

DESSEBT. 

Old  Port.  Old  Claret. 

Black  coffee  and  Cognac  brandy. 


IMENUS    AND    THEIR    COMPILATION 


735 


PRIVATE    DIITNEE, 

at  35s.  per  head,  inclusive  of  Wines. 


Milk  Punch. 

SHERRY. 
Amontillado. 

RHENISH. 

Grafenberg. 
Riidesheimer. 

CLARET. 

St.  Emilion. 
Chateau  Lafitte. 


CHAMPAGNES. 

Heidsieck,  Dry  Monop. 

Pfungst  fr^res. 

G.  H.  Mumm,  1884. 


LIQUEURS. 

Chartreuse. 

Maraschino. 

Cognac. 

Fine  Champagne, 

1806. 


PORT. 

Thompson,  1863, 
Valencia,  1871. 

CLARET. 
Chdteau-Figeac. 


JSill  of  3fare. 

HORS  D'GEm^RES 

Natives.  Olives. 

Astrachan  caviare. 

Huitres  au  citron. 

Foie  gras  de  Strasbourg. 

SOUPS. 

Real  turtle. 

Spring  h  la  Royale.  Puree  of  game 

■I71TCJTX 

Salmon,  sauces  Hollandaise  and  Genoise. 

Fillets  of  soles,  Joinville. 

Whitebait. 

ENTRIES. 

Lobster,  American  style. 

Mutton  cutlets,  Reform  style. 

Fillets  of  chicken,  supreme. 

Zephires  of  foie  gi'as. 

REMOVES. 

Saddle  of  lamb. 

Venison,  Bohemian  style. 

Sirloin  of  beef,  with  spring  vegetables. 

Yorkshire  ham. 

Champagne  sauce. 

ROAST. 

Grouse.  Ducklings.  Quails. 

Giant  asparagus.  Green  peas. 

Puff  potatoes. 

SALADS. 
Russian  salad.  Anchovy  salad. 

SWEETS. 

A^anilla  souffle.         Fruit  tarts. 

Strawberry  creams. 

Chartreuse  jelly. 

Neapolitan  ice  pudding. 

Cheese  straws. 
Oyster  fritters. 

Dessert.  '^X,^~— ^ 

Coffee.    Cigars. 


47 


> 


786  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

SERVICE  A  LA  RUSSE. 

40s.  per  head. 

/lib  emu 

POTAGES. 

Consomme  riche  aux  pointes  d'asperges. 
Tortue  claire.  Duchesse  116. 

HOBS-D'(EUVRES  VARIES. 

(Euf s  de  pluvier. 

Petites  croustades  a  la  Rossini. 

Caviar  d'Astrachan  siir  canapes. 

Releve. 

Saiimon  a  la  Chambord. 

Turbot  de  Dieppe,  sauce  mousseline. 

Filets  de  truite  t\  la  meuniere. 

Entrees. 

Quartier  de  chevreuil,  g-rand  venear. 

Ris  de  vean  aux  truffles. 

Poulardes  a  la  Valenciennes. 

Sorbet  au  Sherry. 

Rots. 

Faisans  rCtis.  Perdreaux  rctis. 

Pommes  de  terre  soufflees. 

Salades. 
Langouste  ^la  Victoria.  Trulfes  Ti  la  Rothschild. 

Entremets. 

Haricots  verts  au  beurre  d'Isigny.  Bombe  a  I'Ecossaise. 

Gateau  des  iles. 

Les  huitres  sur  canapes.  Feuilletees  de  Parmesan. 

Dessert. 

Corbeilles  de  fruits.  Bonbons.  Petits  fours. 

Tins. 

Madere.  Steinberg  Cabinet. 

Chateau  Coutet-sur-Saluces. 

IVIedoc  extra  vieux  en  carafes.  Clos  d'Estournel,  1877. 

Pomard  Boucherottes.         Champagne  frappe  Montebello. 

Ehrmann  fr^res,  1884.  Oporto,  m.agnum,  1851 

Heidsieck  Dry  Monopole,  1880. 

Zamora. 

Cafe  Turc  et  liqueurs. 


MENUS    AND    THEIR   COMPILATION 


737 


LENTEN    DINNEES. 


(1) 

Potage  a  la  cr^me  d'orge. 

Rougets  k  ritalienne. 

Vol-au-vent  a,  la  Macedoine. 

Croquettes  de  semoule. 

Darne  de  saumon  a  la  Tartare. 

Salade  de  saison. 

Pouding  aux  amandes. 

(2) 

Potage  puree  a  la  Palestine. 

Filets  de  sole  a  la  Dauphine. 

Bouchees  d'anchois. 

Epinards  k  la  cr^me. 

Galantine  d'anguilles. 

Salade  aux  tomates. 

Omelette  aux  confitures. 

Pailles  au  parmesan. 

(3) 

Puree  a  I'oseille. 

Cotelettes  de  saumon  a 

rindienne. 

Bordure  de  riz  aux  liuitres. 

Pommes  croquettes. 

Fonds  d'artichauts  aux 

epinards. 

Croutes  aux  ancliois. 

Crepes  au  chocolat. 

Glace  a  I'ananas. 

Dames  d'honneur. 

(4) 

Potage  creme  de  riz. 

Filets  de  soles  a  I'Orly. 

Turbot  bouilli,  sauce 

anchois. 

Crevettes  au  gratia. 

Garottes  k  la  bechamel. 

Pommes  pailles. 
Pointes  d'asperges  a  la 

Sicilienne. 

Corbeilles  a  la  vanille. 

Gelee  a  I'orange, 


(1) 
Pearl  barley  soup  with  cream. 

Red  mullets,  Italian  style. 

Vol-au-vent  with  mixed 

vegetable. 

Semolina  croquets, 

Salmon  steak,  Tartare  sauce. 

Salad. 

Almond  pudding. 

(2) 

Puree  of  Jerusalem  artichokes. 

Fillets  of  sole,  Dauphine  style. 

Small  anchovy  patties. 

Mashed  spinach  with  cream. 

Galantine  of  eels. 

Tomato  salad. 

Jam  omelet. 

Cheese  straws. 

(3) 

Sorrel  soup, 

Salmon  cutlets,  Indian 

style. 

Rice  border  with  stewed  oysters. 

'  Potato  croquets, 

'  Artichoke  bottoms  stuffed  with 

spinach. 

Anchovy  crusts. 

Pancakes  with  chocolate. 

Pineapple  ice. 

Maids  of  honour. 

(4) 

Rice  cream  soup. 

Fillets  of  soles,  Orly  style. 

Boiled  turbot,  anchovy 

sauce. 

Baked  ^Drawns,  gratin  stjde. 

Young  carrots,  bechamel  style. 

Straw  potatoes. 

Asparagus  points,  Sicilian 

style. 

A'^anilla  baskets. 

Orange  ielly. 


738 


PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 


LENTE2Sr    DINNERS— (^^'i^wm^^O 


(5) 

Potage  Parmentier. 

Cabillaud  ruti  aux  epeiians. 

Pommes  Parisiennes. 

Petites  bouchees  de  homard 

a  la  Cardinal. 

Tomates  au  gratin. 

Mayonnaise  de  saumon. 

Glace  Napolitaine. 
Cigarettes  de  fromage. 

(6) 

Julienne  an  maigre. 

Beignets  d'huitres. 

Truite  saumonee,  sauce 

Hollandaise. 

Pommes  poissons. 

(Eufs  frits  4  la  Colbert. 

Cotelettes  de  Rizine. 

Aspic  d'ecrevisses. 

Salade  a  la  Fran^aise. 

Charlotte  glacee  k  la  Florentine. 

Cassolettes  savoureux. 

(7) 

Potage  aux  huitres. 

Ombre  a  la  maitre 

d'hotel. 

Vol-au-vent  aux  oeufs, 

sauce  creme. 

Haricots  verts  au  beurre. 

Grenadins  de  saumon  a  la 

Venitienne. 

Salade  de  harengs  fumes. 

Croquettes  de  macaroni. 

Abricots  au  riz,  sauce 

framboise. 


(5) 

Puree  of  potatoes. 

Baked  cod  with  smelts. 

Potatoes,  Parisian  style. 

Small  lobster  patties,  Cardinal 

style. 

Baked  tomatoes. 

Salmon  mayonnaise. 

Neapolitan  ice. 

Cheese  cigarettes. 

(6) 

Julienne  in  fish  broth. 

Oyster  fritters. 

Salmon  trout,  Hollandaise 

sauce. 

Fish  potatoes. 

Baked  eggs,  Colbert  style. 

Rizine  cutlets. 

Savoury  jelly  of  crayfish. 

French  salad. 

Iced  charlotte,  Florentine  style. 

Savoury  cassolettes. 

(7) 

Oyster  soup. 

Broiled  grayling  with  parsley 

butter. 

Vol-au-vent  with  eggs, 

cream  sauce. 

French  beans  with  butter. 

Salmon  fillets,  Venetian 

style. 

Smoked  herring  salad. 

Macaroni  croquets. 

Apricots  with  rice,  raspberry 

sauce. 


VEaETARIAN"    DINNER. 

Lentil  soup.  Poached  eggs  with  spinach. 

Rizine  cutlets  and  tomato  sauce. 

Curried  aubergines  with  boiled  rice.  Irish  stew. 

Macaroni  au  gratin.  Apple  and  tapioca  pie. 

Bird's  nest  pudding.  Semolina  custard. 

Palace  blancmange.  Savoury  omelet. 


MENUS    AND    THEIR    COMPILATION 


739 


SPECIMEN   MENUS  OF 

ENGLISH     MESS    CATERING 


LUNCH    MENUS. 


Consomme  of  chicken. 

Lamb  cutlets  and  peas. 

Quenelles  of  sweetbreads 

and  truffles. 

Quails. 

Asparagus.     New  potatoes. 

Cold. 

Koast  fowls.      Tongue. 

Kegent  sandwiches. 
Compote  of  pineapple. 
Baked  tapioca  pudding. 


Mayonnaise  of  salmon. 

Lobster  salad. 

Potted  shrimps. 

Ham. 

Tongue. 

Round  of  beef. 

Eoast  spring  chickens 

Eoast  lamb. 

Jellies. 

Creams. 

Pineapple  ice. 


DINNER    MENUS. 


Olives  farcies.     Sardines. 

Potage  a  la  reine. 

Turbot,  sauce  homard. 

Blanchailles. 

Fricassee  de  poulet  aux  trufFes. 

Epigramme  d'agneau  aux 

concombres. 

Aloyau  de  boeuf ,  sauce  raifort. 

Gelinotte. 

Ponding  Cobourg. 

Gelee  au  champagne. 

Petits   fours. 

Plombiere  aux  abricots. 

Canape  d'anchois. 

Dessert. 


Mulligatawny  soup. 

Salmon,  parsley  sauce. 

Fillets   of   beef. 

Chicken  saute. 

Roast  haunch  of  mutton. 

Ducklings.         Asparagus. 

Nelson  pudding 

Blancmange. 

Devilled  sardines. 

Apricot  ice. 

Dessert. 


Turtle  soup. 
Turbot  and  Hollandaise  sauce- 
Sweetbreads  and  mushrooms. 
Curried  prawns. 

Hind-quarter  of  lamb. 

Fillet  of  veal  and  bacon. 

Spring  chickens  and  watercress. 

Lemon   pudding. 

Fruit   tarts. 

Neapolitan  ice  pudding. 

Dessert. 


Turtle  soup. 

Whitebait. 

Ragout  of  ox  tail. 

Farced  tomatoes. 

Roast  beef. 

Ham   and    salad. 

Sweet  omelet. 

Jelly. 

Cream. 

Anchovy  toast. 

Strawberry  water  ice. 

Dessert. 


740  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 


BALL    SUPPER    MENUS. 


/Iftenu  Du  Souper. 

Cotelettes  de  saumon. 

Filets  de  soles. 

Aspic    de   crevettes    a   I'lndienne. 

Cotelettes  d'agneau  a  la  Strasbourg 

Poulet  au  cresson. 

Petits  pains  a  la  Parisienne. 

Langue  de  boeuf  en  aspic. 

Jambon  de  York. 

Cbandfroid   de  volaille   Portugaise. 

Mamiettes  farcies  a  la  Perigord, 

Ballotines  ^  la  Renaissance. 

Mayonnaise  de  homard. 

Chaudfroid  de  cailles  en  Bellevue 

Asperges  k  la  Nomiande. 

Sandwiches  varies. 

Gelees. 

Bavaroise. 

Patisserie. 

Macedoine   de   fruits. 

Savarin  au  cura9ao. 

Pouding  glac6. 


MENUS    AND    THEIR    COMPILATION  741 

BALL     SUPPER     MB^JIS—icontinned). 

/IRenu  Du  Souper. 

POTAGE. 

Consomme  claire. 

ENTBEES    CHA.UDES. 

Cotelettes  d'agneau  aux  pois.     Poulets  rotis  au  cresson. 

ENTBEES    PBOIDES. 

Aspic  de  filets  de  soles. 

Chaudfroid  de  cailles  a  la  Key  ale. 

Cremes  de  volaille  aux  truft'es. 

Chaudfroid  de  volaille. 

Poulets  a  la  gelee. 

Petits  pains  a  la  Frangaise. 

Langue  k  Tecarlate. 

Medallions  de  truite  a  la  Ptusse. 

Caisses  de  mauviettes  a  repicurienne. 

Tomates  4  la  Florentine. 

(Eufs  a  la  Maximiiien. 

Aspic  de  foie  gras  en  Bellevue. 

Sandwiches  varies, 

KELEVES    FBOID3. 

Saumon  sur  gondole  a  la  Venitienne. 

Poulardes   a  la  Prince   de   Galles   sur   socle. 

Filets  de  boeuf  a  la  Toscane. 

Galantines  de  volaille  a  la  Urbaine  Dubois. 

PIECES  MONTEES. 

Napolitains  decores.  Brioche  Parisienne. 

Meringue  »Suisse.  Baba  i\  la  Polonaise. 

Gateau  Breton  decore.  Gateau  millefeuilles. 

ENTBEMETS. 

Gelees.  Macedoine  de  fruits. 

Charlotte  Kusse  aux  fraises. 
Pave  Terollion.         Bavaroise  a  la  vanille  et  cafe. 
Gateau  Vert-Vert.         Gateau  Jama'ique. 

PATISSEBIE      VABIEE. 

Fanchonnettes.  Puits  d'amour. 

Petits  Nana.       Mirlitons. 
Bonnes-bouches  Frascati. 

Tartelettes  de  fraises. 
Gil-Bias.  Nonpareil. 


742  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 


BALL    SUPPER    ■m:E}'NJJ S—(co?itimiedy 
/iftenu  t)u  Souper. 

OHAUD. 

Consomme  aux  pointes  d'asperges. 
Cotelettes  panees  aux  pois. 

PROID. 

Escalopes  de  saumon  en  mayonnaise. 

Kari  de  crevettes. 

Salades  de  homard. 

Cailles  a  la  Strasbourg. 

Petites  cremes  de  volaille  aux  truffes. 

Cbaudfroid  de  poulets. 

Foie  gras  en  aspic. 

Cotelettes  a  la  Zingarat. 

Sandmches  k  la  Chesterfield. 

Poulets  rotis  decoupes. 

Jambon  et  langue. 

Galantine  a  la  Perigord. 

Salades  de  tomates. 

Pate  de  gibier. 

Chapon  4  I'^carlate. 

Macedoine  de  fruits  en  gelee. 

Chartreuses  aux  peches. 

Bavaroise  a  la  vanille. 

Savarin  au  kirsch. 

Patisserie. 
Fraises  et  creme. 


MENUS    AND    THEIR   COMPILATION  743 


BUFFET  ET  SOUPER  CHAUD. 

(400  Couverts). 

SERVICE     CHAUD. 

Consomme  en  tasses. 

Terrapins  a  la  Maryland, 

Croquettes  cle  chapons  aux  truffes. 

Huitres  a  la  poulette. 

Eillettes  aux  champignons  frais. 

Canards  canvas-back  a  la  gelee  de  groseille, 

SERVICE     FROID. 

Darne  de  saumon  k  la  moderne. 

Homards  4  la  Eusse. 

Salade  de  homards  a  rAmericaine. 

Pdt6  de  foie  gras  de  Strasbourg. 

PiUe  de  faisans  a  la  Perigord. 

Aspic  de  mauviettes  en  Belle vue. 

Salade  Russe. 

Sandwiches  varies. 

Canapes  Polonaises. 

SUCRE  S. 

Gelee  a  la  Mac6doine. 

Mousse  au  caf6. 

Bavaroise  aux  pommes. 

Corbeille  de  giaces  assorties. 

Gdteau  ]\Ialakoff. 

Dessert.  Fruits. 

Chocolate.  Cafe.  The. 

Punch.  Limonade. 


744  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 


BUFFET  ET  SOUPER  C'H:A'UB—Cconti7medy 

POISSON. 

Saumon  k  la  mayonnaise. 

Saumon  k  la  Norvegienne. 

Galantine  d'anguilles  a  la  Windsor. 

Mayonnaise  de  homards. 

ENTKEES     FBOIDES. 

Cotelettes  d'agneau  a  la  Russe. 

Cailles  en  aspic  a  la  Parisienne. 

Pain  de  volaille  a  I'lmperiale. 

Foie  gras  en  aspic.  Cailles  en  caisse. 

Ortolans  en  caisses.       Mauviettes  en  caisses. 

GROSSES     PIECES. 

Dindon  ruti  a  I'lmperiale. 

Dindon  farci  en  aspic  a  la  Versailles. 

Galantine  de  chapon  ii  la  Fran(;aise. 

Pdte  de  gibier  a  la  FranQaise. 

Eoulade  de  boeiif  a  lepicurienne. 

Jambon  de  Cumberland. 

Langue  de  boeuf  garnie. 

Poulet  roti  anx  cressons. 

ENTREMETS. 

Nougat  a  la  Chantilly.         Meringues  a  la  Victoria. 

Chartreuse  de  fruit. 

Gelee  au  Punch.  Gelee  ^  I'Ananas. 

Creme  de  framboises.  Creme  d'orange. 

Su^doise  d'abricots.         Fanchonnettes. 

Genoise  glacee.         Patisserise  Frangaises, 

Compote  d 'oranges.  Compote  de  poires. 

Glaces. 

DESSERT. 


MENUS    AND    THEIR    COMPILATION  745 


BUFFET  ET  SOUPEK  CBi AJJ I)— (contimied). 

/iRenu. 

GKOSSES    PIECES    FKOIDES. 

Tete  de  sanglier  a  la  St.  Hubert. 

Darnes   de    saumon   a   I'Algerienne. 

Galantine  de  volaille  k  la  Victoire. 

Poularde  d  I'Ecossaise.  Buisson  de  homards  en  coquillage. 

Pates  de  faisans  a  I'ancienne. 

PIECES    MONTEES. 

Tronc  d'arbre  a  la  Voli^re.         Gerbe  de  ble  k  la  printaniere. 

Chalet  Suisse.  Baba  Polonaise.  Gateau  Breton. 

ENTBEES    FBOIDES. 

Chaudfroid  de  mauviettes  en  mandarine. 
Petites  timbales  de  foie  gras  a  la  Lucullus. 

Zephire  de  volaille  a  la  Venitienne. 

Chartreuse  de  filets  de  sole  k  la  chatelaine. 

Mayonnaise  de  turbot  a  la  Bagration. 

Aspic  de  langouste  en  Bellevue. 

Langue  a  I'ecarlate.  Brawn  a  I'Anglaise. 

Jambon  en  gelee. 

Kajons  decoupes,  Salade  de  saison. 

ENTREMETS. 

Chartreuse  d'ananas  a  la  Bourdaloue. 

Pain  d'abricots  k  la  Orleans.  Gelee  aux  liqueurs. 

Macedoine  de  fruits.  Petits  gateaux  Portugais. 

Dames  d'honneur. 

Choux  grilles  k  la  Chantilly.         Petits  fours  varies. 

Petites  caisses  Napolitaines. 


746 


PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 


BALL    SUPPER    MENUS. 


BALL    SUPPER. 

PISH. 

Oyster  patties. 

Mayonnaise  of  salmon. 

Smelts  a  la  Napoleon  III. 

Dressed  crab,  Parisian  style. 

Lobster  salad. 

Crawfish  salad,  Chambord 

style. 

Fillets  of  red  mullet  in  aspic, 

decorated  with  crayfish. 


MEATS. 

Roast  beef. 

Braised  turkey. 

Fillets  of  fowl  in  snow. 

Fillets  of  ducks,  Sultan  fashion. 

Turkey  in  the  Chatsworth  style. 

Pigeons  in  the  Sefton  fashion. 

Game  pies. 

Larks  in  the  Parisian  style. 

Grouse  Salad. 

Sandwiches. 

Pistachio  cream. 

Maraschino  cream. 

Orange  cream. 

Jellies.        Cakes.       Fruits. 

"Wines,  &c. 


SOUPER    DU     BAL. 

POISSONS. 

Pates  des  huitres. 

Mayonnaise  de  saumon. 

Eperlans  a  la  Napoleon  III. 

Crabe  a  la  Paris, 

Salade  de  homard. 

Salade  de  langouste  k  la 

Chambord. 

Filets  de  rougets  en  aspic, 

garnis  aux  ecrevisses. 


VIAISTDES. 

Eosbif  a  I'Anglaise. 

Dinde  braise. 

Filets  a  la  neige. 

Filets  a  la  Sultan. 

Dindon  a  la  Chatsworth. 

Pigeon  d,  la  Sefton. 

Pates  de  gibier. 

Mauviettes  a  la  Parisienne. 

Salade  de  gelinotte. 

Sandwiches. 

Cr^me  de  pistache. 

Creme  de  marasquin. 

Creme  d'oranges. 

Gelees.     Gateaux.     Fruits. 

Vins,  &c. 


MENUS    AND    THEIR    COMPILATION 


747 


BALL     SUPPER      M'El^'US— (continued). 


SOUPER    DU     BAL. 

SERVICE    CHAIJD. 

Consomme  en  tasse. 

Champignons  frais  sur  croutes. 

Petites  mousses  de  jambon, 
sauce  Champagne. 

Aspic  de  crevettes. 
Pigeonneaux  truffes. 
Becassines  au  cresson. 

Coquilles  d'huitres. 


SERVICE    FROID. 
(Buffet). 

Pate  de  foie  gras  en  croute. 

Galantine  de  faisans  sur  socle. 

Chaudfroid  de  mauvie.ttes 
en  Bellevue. 

Saumon  de  Canada  ^  la  Tartare. 

Mayonnaise  de  volaille. 

Mayonnaise  de  homards. 

Sandwiches  assortis. 


DESSERT. 

Gelee  au  Madere. 

Bavarois  rubanes. 

Glaces  de  fantaisie. 

Biscuits  glaces. 

Petits  fours. 

Fruits. 

Cafe. 


SOUPER    DU     BAL. 

FROID 

(Bwffet). 

Saumon  garni,  sauce  verte 

Homard,  sauce  remoulade 

Filet  de  bceuf  a  la  Parisienne 

Galantine  de  chapons. 

Quartier  d'agneau,  sauce 

menthe. 

Boeuf  a  la  gelee. 

Poulardes  roties. 

Jambon  et  langue. 

Pate  de  faisans  a  la  Perigord. 

Sandwiches  assortis. 

Salade  Russe. 

Babas  au  rhum. 

Gateaux  Bretons. 

Gelee  macedoine  aux  fruits. 

Bavarois  panaches. 

Biscuits  Punch. 

Cornets  aux  pistaches. 

Croque-en-bouche  duchesse. 

CHAUD 

(Petites  tables). 
Consomme  aux  pointes 

d'asperges. 

Homard  4  I'Americaine. 

Noisettes  d'agneau  aux  petits 

pois. 

FROID. 

Darne  de  saumon  aux 

concombres. 

Salade  de  homard. 

Pate  de  faisans  k  I'aspic. 

Poulet,  langue  et  jambon. 

Galantine  de  chapons. 

Salade  Italienne. 

Patisserie  variee. 

Biscuits  glaces. 

Gelee  macedoine  aux  fruits. 

Charlotte  Russe. 

Glace  marbree. 

Soupe  a  Foignon. 


748  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 


COLD    COLLATION    MENUS. 


POTAGES. 

Consomme  de  volaille.         Creme  de  riz. 

GROSSES    PIECES. 

Pains  Isabella  a,  la  vicomtesse. 
Galantine  de  dinde  truffee. 

Pates  de  gibiers  a  la  Kichelieu. 
Poulets  et  langues  a  la  Eoyale. 

Hure  de  sanglier  en  galantine. 

Huitres.  Huitres. 

^lembres  de  dinde  a  la  Diable. 

ENTREES    FROIDES. 

Supreme  de  ris  de  veau  truffe. 

Maiiviettes  farcies  aux  chataignes. 

ChaudTroid  de  canetons  aux  pois  verts. 

Cascades  d'ortolans  en  galantine. 

Ballotines  de  gibiers  en  corbeilles. 

Escalopes  de  foies  gras  de  Strasbourg. 

Cotelettes  d'agneau  a  la  Provengale 

Chaudfroid  de  faisans  a  la  Talle^Tand. 

Pyramides  de  volaille  a  I'ecarlate. 

Bonnes-bouches  a  la  Careme. 
Croustades  de  gibiers  a  I'Allemande. 
Terrines  de  foies  gras  de  Strasbourg. 

Petits  pates  k  la  Reine. 

Tourbans  de  homards  en  Bellevue. 

Aspics  d'ecrevisses  k  la  gelee. 

Chartreuses  aux  huitres  en  Tartare. 

Crabes  a  la  maitre  d'hotel. 

Salades  de  homards. 

Rougets  a  la  Hollandaise. 

Marinades  de  saumons  aux  cressons. 

Saumons  en  aspic  et  en  mayonnaise. 

Sandwiches  de  foies  gras,  d'anchois,  &c. 


MENUS    AND    THEIR    COMPILATION  749 

RELEVES 

Dindes  roties  aux  marrons. 

Gibiers  rotis. 

Galantines  cle  chapons. 

Jambons  braises  au  vin  de  Champagne. 

Langues  de  bceuf  h  I'ecarlate. 

Galantines  de  vean. 

Boeuf  a  I'Anglaise. 

Ponlets  rotis  aux  cressons, 

Rond  de  bceuf  garni. 

GROSSES    PIECES    DE    PATISSERIE 

Corbeilles  garnies  arec  bonbons  de  Paris. 

Gateaux  montes  aux  coupes, 

Gradins  aux  biscuits  ornes. 

Gitteaux  de  Savarin  h,  la  liqueur, 

Croque-en-bouches  a  I'ltalienne. 

Fondants  d'amour  en  croquante. 

ENTREMETS. 

Nougats  de  Eeine-Claudes, . 

Petits  meringues  au  snore  file. 

Pains   d'oranges  a   Tlmperatrice, 

Macedoines  de  fruits, 

Bavaroises  a  la  vanille. 

Charlottes  a  la  Russe, 

Souffles  a  la  Montmorency. 

Gelees  au  marasquin. 

Croquettes  de  Genoise  en  surprise 

Creme  aux  f  raises. 

jSuedoises  de  poires  a  la  Duchesse. 

Gateaux  Sefton  a  la  Chantilly. 

Gelees  panachees  au  rhum. 

Compote  d'ananas. 

Compotes  d'oranges. 

Petits  fours  varies  glaces. 

RAFRAICHISSEMENTS. 

Creme  k  la  vanille  glacee. 

L'eau  d'ananas  glacee. 

Creme  aux  fraises  glacee, 

L'eau  d'oranges  glacee. 

Caf  6  glace. 

The  et  biscuits,  &c. 


750  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 


COLD   COLLATION  M:E>'NJJS—(co?itinued), 

Oj'sters. 

Stuffed  olives.        Smoked  salmon. 

Soles  in  cream.  Aspic  of  lobster. 

Soused  mackerel. 

Lobster  salad.      Anchovy  salad. 

Italian  salad. 

HOT    ENTREES. 
Broiled  chicken.  Salmi  of  wood  pigeon. 

COLD    ENTREES. 

Chaudfroid  of  chicken.  Galantine  of  veal. 

Pigeons  stuffed  with  olives  in  savoury  jelly. 

Sweetbread  patties.        Ducklings. 

SIDE-BOARD. 

Roast  beef  with  horseradish  cream. 

Lamb  and  mint  sauce. 

Eoast  fowls.        Braised  tongues. 

Salads. 

Beefsteak  and  kidney  pies.     Veal  and  ham  pies. 

Westphalia  ham. 

Pastries.  Creams. 

Orange  jelly. 

Fruits.        Gateaux.        Ices. 

Cafe  noir. 


MENUS   AND    THEIR   COMPILATION  751 


COLD   COLLATION  MB'NJJS^(contmuedy 

Lobster  salads.     Pyramids  of  prawns.     Dressed  crabs. 

Mayonnaise  of  salmon.      Fillets  of  sole  in  savoury  jellj . 

Salmon  'k  la  Chambord. 

Foies  gras  in  savoury  jell)\ 

Lamb  cutlets,  Princesse  style. 

Game  pies.  Pigeon  pies. 

Turkeys,  Royal  style. 

Pheasants.         Partridges. 

Galantines  of  veal. 

Roast  lamb. 

Boiled  round  of  beef 

Roast  chicken.      Chickens  a  la  Bellevue. 

Hams.     Pressed  beef.     Tongues. 

Tipsy  cakes.       Cheesecakes. 

Gateaux  Napolitains. 

Fruit  jellies.     Wine  jellies. 

Cr^me  k  la  vanille.      Charlotte  Russe. 

Meringues  with  cream.  French  pastry, 

DESSERT. 

Grapes.     Pines.     Apples.     Pears. 

Lemon  water  ice. 

Strawberry  cream  ice. 


4a 


752  PRACTICAL    GASTKONOMY 


TYPICAL    AMERICAN    MENUS. 

BREAKFAST. 

Sliced  oranges. 

Oatmeal.     Sugar  and  cream. 

Smothered  beef.      Saratoga  chips. 

Cerealine  griddle  cakes.     Coffee. 

LUNCH. 

Broiled  lobster. 

Parker  House  rolls. 

Watercress.         Radishes. 

Cheese  ramakins. 

Tea. 

DINNER. 

Puree  of  vegetables  without  meat 

Stuffed  breast  of  veal. 

Brown  sauce. 

Plain  boiled  potatoes. 

Stewed  tomatoes. 

Browned  sweet  potatoes. 

Lettuce  salad.       French  dressing. 

Cheese  straws. 

Apple  snow. 

Coffee. 


MENUS    AND    THEIR    COMPILATION  753 


AN    AMERICAN    SUNDAY   DINNER. 


Mock  turtle.       Consomme,  with  chicken  lillets. 

Boiled  trout,  cream  sauce.    Fillet  of  sole,  walnut  sauce. 

Fried  perch,  Tartar  sauce. 

Dressed  lettuce.  Radishes. 

Lamb's  tongue.     Boiled  Philadelphia  capon.     Oyster  sauce. 

Cucumber.      Sliced  tomatoes. 

Sirloin  of  beef,  dish  gravy.     Tame  duck,  apple  jelly. 

Spring  lamb,  mint  sauce. 

Cincinnati  ham,  Champagne  sauce. 

Chicken  croquettes,  supreme  sauce. 

Swefetbreads,  financiere.     Pear  fritters  with  maraschino. 

Devilled  lobsters,  Roman  punch. 

Mashed  potatoes.        New  string  beans. 

Lima  beans.      Sweet  potatoes. 

Asparagus.      Bermuda  onions.      Green  peas. 

Sirloin  beef.     Ham.     Tongue.     Turkey. 

Lobster  salad.     Vegetable  salad. 

Snow  pudding.         Whipped  cream. 

Lemon  pie.        Washington  pie.        Cream  pie. 

Vanilla  ice  cream.     Chocolate  ice  cream. 

Fancy  cake.        Nuts.        Raisins.        Oranges. 

Macaroons.      Charlotte  Russe.      Bananas. 

American  cheese.     Frozen  pudding.     Roquefort  cheese. 

Lady  fingers.     Crackers.     Wine  jelly. 

Strawberries  and  cream.     Olives.     Honey  in  comb. 

Tea.    Cocoa.     Coffee. 


754  PRACTICAL   GASTRONOMY 

ECLECTIC    CLUB,    NEW    YORK. 
DINNER    GIVEN    AT    THE    HOTEL    DAM. 

nyrEH^TJ     JDJj     I^ZIs^:E3I^. 

Januaky  6,  1887. 

HUITRES. 

Blue  points,  half  shells. 

POTAGES. 

Mock  Turtle.  Celery. 

Appetissants.  Olives. 

Palmafina  SJierry. 

POISSON 

Boiled  striped  bass,  sauce  Hollandaise. 
Parisian  potatoes. 

RELEVES. 

Lamb  Chops,  sautes  a  la  Macedoine. 
Mashed  potatoes  au  gratin.        Asparagus. 

ROTI. 

Koast  grouse,  English  bread  sauce. 

Ruinart  et  Morizet  sec. 

SALADE. 

Lettuce.     Chicory. 

DESSERT 

Pudding  k  la  Reine. 

FROMAGE. 
English.        Brie.        American. 

FRUITS    VARIES. 

Grapes.    Pears.    Bananas. 

Cafe. 

50  Covers  at  20s.  per  head,  inclusive  of  Wines. 


MENUS    AND    THEIR    COMPILATION  765 

SPECIMEN  MENUS  OF  AMERICAN  PRIVATE  DINNERS. 

New  York,  7  Janvier,  1891. 

Blue  points  en  coquilles. 

POTAGES. 
Bisque  d'^crevisses.  Tortue  4  la  Frangaise. 

HORS-D'CEUVRE. 

Petites  croustades  ^  la  Saint-Hubert. 

POISSONS. 

Sheep's-head  4  la  Chambord. 

Timbales  de  truites  Normande. 

Pomme  de  terre  croquettes.  Salade  de  concombres. 

RELEVES. 

Selle  de  venaison,  sauce  poivrade. 
Puree  de  marrons. 

ENTREES. 

Timbales  de  volaille  Renaissance. 

Petits  pois  a  I'Anglaise. 

Terrapine  k  la  Maryland. 

Chaudfroid  de  mauviettes  en  cerises. 

Punch  a  I'lmperiale. 

ROTS. 

Canvas-back  ducks  au  cresson.        Cailles  sur  croustades. 
Salade  de  celeri  mayonnaise. 

ENTREMETS. 

Charlottes  Doria.      Brouettes  de  peches  glacees.      Petits  fours. 
Fruits.  Cafe. 


756  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

AMBRICAlSr  PRIVATE  DINNERS— (^.n*.). 

New  York,  Maes  19,  1891. 

Huitres  (blue  point). 

Potage :  tortue  claire. 

Petites  bouchees  aux  crabes  d'huitres. 

Bass  rayee  au  court-bouillon,  sauces  Genevoise 

et  Hollandaise. 

Petites  timbales  k  la  TallejTrand. 

Terrapin  'k  la  Maryland. 

Selle  de  mouton  a  I'Anglaise. 

Laitues  farcies.     Pommes  de  terre  Duchesse. 

Chaudfroid  de  perdreaux  a  la  gelee. 

Punch  a  I'lmperiale. 

Canvas-back  ducks  rotis. 

Croquettes  de  hominy. 

Jambon  de  Virginie  roti. 

Salades  de  tomates  a  la  Russe. 

Charlotte  de  gaufres  garnie  de  petites  glaces. 

Petits  fours  assortis.     Fruits  glaces. 

Dessert. 

Cafe. 


New  York,  Mai  12,  1891. 

Huitres  vertes. 

Potage,  tortue  claire 

Bisque  d'ecrevisses. 

Homard  k  la  Newburgh. 

Ballotines  de  poularde  Saint-Germain, 

Selle  d'agneau  a  la  Dubarry. 

Celeris  braises.     Pommes  Bellevue. 

Petits  aspics  de  foie  gras. 

Rot :  Perdreaux  au  cresson. 

Salade  de  chicoree. 

Canvas-back  ducks  rotis. 

Croquettes  de  hominy. 

Amandes  salees. 

Charrettes  en  sucre,  garnies  de 

fruits  en  glace. 

Gateaux.     Petits  fours. 

Dessert. 

Cafe. 


MENUS   AND   THEIR    COMPILATION  757 

AMERICAN"  PRIVATE  DINNERS— (c^n^.)- 

MENU    DU    DINER. 

SERVICE    A    LA    RUSSE. 

Newport,  Juin  3,  1891. 

POTAGES. 

Tortue  claire  a  TAnglaise. 
Puree  k  la  Heine. 

HORS-D'CEUVRES. 

Varies. 

Croustade  Suissesse. 

Canape  a  la  Russe. 

POISSONS. 

Filets  de  bass  4  la  Joinville. 

Pommes  Brabant. 

Concombres. 

RELEVES. 

Selle  d'agneau,  sauce  menthe. 
Champignons  et  tomates  farcis. 

ENTREES. 

Mousse  4  la  Garfield. 
Pate  de  foie  gras  en  croute. 

ROTS. 

Woodcocks  sur  canapes. 

Jambon  de  la  Virginie. 

Mayonnaise  de  celeri. 

Cheese  straws. 

ENTREMETS. 

Glace  de  fantaisie. 

Baba  au  punch. 

Petits  fours. 

Fruits 

Cafe. 


768  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

A  SUNDAY  MENU  AT  SARATOGA  SPRINGS. 

Adelphi  Hotel,  December  1890. 

Mock  turtle  ^  I'Anglaise.  Consomme  de  volaille  with  rice. 

Soft-shell  crabs,  fried,  ^  I'Anglaise. 

Fillet  of  trout  ^  la  Chambord.        Duchesse  potatoes. 

Celery.        Cucumbers. 

Croustade  a  la  Parisienne. 

Ham.        Tongue.        Lamb.        Beef.        Corned  Beef. 

Chicken.        Pig's  feet.        Potato  salad. 

Beef  tongue  with  greens. 

Chicken  with  pork.  Mutton,  caper  sauce. 

Sweetbread  braise,  a  la  Montpensier, 

Stuffed  fresh  tomatoes   ^  la  Princesse. 

Lamb  fries,  breaded,  sauce  Tartare. 

Veal  cutlet  saute  4  la  Bordelaise.         Queen  fritters,  wine  sauce, 

Vermont  turkey,  giblet  sauce. 

Tame  duck,  apple  sauce.        Ribs  of  beef. 

Roman  Punch. 

Mixed  pickles.  Chili  sauce.  English  mustard. 

Chow-chow.        Worcestershire  sauce. 

Tomato  catsup,  anchovy  sauce.     French  mustard.     Queen  olives. 

Sliced  tomatoes.        Lettuce. 

New  potatoes.        Mashed  potatoes.        Stewed  tomatoes. 

New  peas.         New  beets. 

Spinach.         New  squash.         Bermuda  onions.         Boiled  rice. 

Pudding  royal,  brandy  sauce.         Apple  pie. 

Lemon  pie.  Cocoanut  pie. 

Jelly  cake.        Fancy  cake.       Fancy  macaroons.       Pound  cake. 

Madeira  wine  jelly.     Whipped  cream.     Marasquin  ice  cream. 

Pistache  ice  cream. 

Iced  watermelon.        Bananas.        Oranges.        Pecan  nuts. 

Almonds.        English  walnuts.  Filberts. 

Pineapple  cheese.  English  dairy  cheese.  Dairy  cheese. 

Milk  and  cream  from  our  Walnut  Hill  Farm. 


MENUS    AND    THEIR    COMPILATION  759 

CHRISTMAS    DIISTNEH    MENU. 

Given   at  the   Ebbitt   House,  Washington,   D.C. 

mn  ot  jfare. 

Pousse-cafe. 

Blue  points.         Shrewsburys.         Tobasco  sauce. 

Horseradish.         Limes. 

Green  turtle.       St.  Julien.        Soyer's  relish.       Celery. 

Caselets  of  oyster  crabs. 

Watercress  salad.  Anchovy  toast. 

Cutlets  of  English  sole.  Shrimp  sauce.         Calcutta  soy. 

Iced  cucumbers. 

Lake  Erie  whitefish,  broiled. 

Chili  sauce.         Potato  chips.         Supreme  of  capon. 

Green  peas.  Hominy  croquettes. 

Fillet  of  prime  Xmas  beef.     Fresh  mushrooms.      String  beans. 

Potato  croquettes. 

Wild  turkey,  stuffed  with  chestnuts. 

Damson  jelly.         Artichokes.        Sweet  j)otato  fritters. 

Stewed  terrapin,  Ebbitt  House  style.     Madeira  wine  wafers. 

Sweetbreads,  larded.      Sultana  sauce. 

Asparagus.  Spinach. 

Cutlets  of  quails,  beechnut  dressing.     Guava  jelly.      Lamb  fries. 

Bombay  chutney.  Champagne  punch. 

Stuflfed  olives.        Canvas-back  ducks.         Currant  jelly. 

Fried  hominy.  Frozen  celery. 

English  gold  pheasants,  bread  sauce.       Scotch  marmalade. 

Lettuce  salad. 

Yellow-leg  plover.     Cranberry  jelly.     Season  salad. 

Tutti  frutti.  Biscuits  glaces. 

Florida  orange  jelly.     Swiss  cream  in  shells.     Charlotte  Russe. 

Harlequin  fruit  sorbet. 

Assorted  cakes.         Florida  oranges.         Bananas. 

Tokio  grapes.      Malaga  grapes.      California  Duchess  pears. 

Confectionery. 

Bonbons.  Coffee.  Cognac.  Liqueurs.  Stilton. 

Neufchatel. 


760  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

Delmonico's    Restaurant,    New    York. 

Le  18  Novembre,  1890. 

jfflbenu. 

Huitres. 

POTAGES. 

A  la  Daumont.         Tortue  verte,  claire. 

HORS-D'CEUVRE. 

Timbales  a  la  Dumas. 

RELEVES. 

Bass  rayee  h  la  Joinville.        Pomraes  de  terre  fondantes. 
Filets  de  boeuf,  Montebello.       Tomates  a  la  Tr^vise. 

ENTREES. 

Chapons  k  la  Chevreuse.        Petits  pois  k  la  Parisienne. 
Terrapine  a  la  Baltimore. 

Sorbet  Regence. 

ROTS. 

Canvas-back  duck.  Perdreaux. 

FROID. 

Terrine  de  foie  gras  4  la  gel6e. 
Salade  de  laitue. 

ENTREMETS    DE    DOUCEUR. 

Peclies  a  la  Conde. 
Gelee  aux  oranges.  Gaufres  bavaroises. 

PIECES    MONTEES. 

Glace  de  fantaisie. 
Fruits.        Petits  fours. 

Cafe. 


MENUS   AND    THEIR    COMPILATION  761 

A  SERIES  OF  TYPICAL  MENUS  AS  SERVED  ON  BOARD  SHIP 
ON  THE  TRANSATLANTIC  LINES. 

Sunday,  August  9,  1891. 

BBEAKFAST. 

FISH. 

Stewed  eels. 

Halibut  steak  a  la  creme.  Fried  fresh  haddock. 

Broiled  salt  mackerel. 

HOT  DISHES. 

Porterhouse  steak.  Broiled  Cumberland  ham. 

Vegetable  stew. 

Lamb's  fry  with  tomatoes. 

Poached,  boiled,  fried,  and  scrambled  eggs. 

Broiled  bacon.  Fried  calf's  haslets.  Mutton  chops. 

Kump  steak  with  mushrooms. 

Omelette  with  fine  herbs.  Omelettes,  plain  and  sweet. 

Boiled,  mashed,  and  fried  potatoes. 

Scotch  oatmeal  cake. 

Vienna  bread.  Soda  scones.  Anchovy  toast. 

Buckwheat  cakes  with  maple  or  golden  syrup. 

Rice  croquettes.  Boiled  hominy.  Oatmeal  porridge. 

COLD  DISHES. 

Boiled  ham.  Ox  tongue.  Corned  beef. 

Eoast  haunch  of  mutton. 

Eoast  ribs  of  beef.  Head  cheese. 

Corned  leg  of  pork. 


Watercress.  Oranges.  Water  melons.  Preserves. 

Tea.  Coffee.  Cocoa. 


762  PRACTICAL    GASTRONO^IY 


MENUS    ON    BOARD    QB.!!*— (continued). 


LUNCHEON. 

Julienne  soup.  Beef  tea.  Chicken  broth. 

Pate  de  foie  gras  truffe. 

Anchovies.  Eussian  caviare.  Sardines. 

HOT. 

Koast  haunch  of  mutton,  onion  sauce. 

Beef  and  potato  pie.  Mashed  potatoes. 

Baked  potatoes,  plain  and  sweet. 

Stewed  prunes.  Baked  apples.  Boiled  rice. 

COLD. 

Stewed  veal.  Corned  beef.  Calf's  head. 

Corned  leg  of  pork.  Boiled  chicken. 

Head  cheese.  Ox  tongue.  Boiled  ham. 

Koast  mutton.  Roast  beef. 

Queenstown  lettuce.  Pickled  beets. 

CHEESE. 
Stilton.  Berkeley.  Gorgonzola.  Cheshire. 

DESSERT. 

Water  melons.  Gooseberries. 

Almonds  and  raisins. 

Roast  peanuts.  Oranges.  Brazil  nuts. 

Chocolate  ice  cream. 

Tea.  Coffee. 


MENUS    AND    THEIR    COMPILATION  763 

MENUS    ON    BOARD    SHIP— (contimed). 

DINNER. 

HOBS-D'CEUVRES. 

Norwegian  anchovies.  Caviare  on  toast. 

SOUP. 

Green  turtle.  Cream  of  rice  k  la  Victoria. 

FISH. 

Salmon  a  la  Tartare. 

ENTREES. 

Calf's  feet  k  la  Jardiniere.  Filet  de  boeuf  aux  fines  herbes. 

Pigeon  pie. 

JOINTS. 

Spring  lamb,  mint  sauce.  Beef  with  Yorkshire  pudding. 

Boiled  leg  of  mutton  a  I'Anglaise. 

Roast  goslings,  apple  sauce.  Sucking  pig  k  la  Napolitaine. 

Corned  pork  with  baked  beans. 

VEGETABLES. 

Green  corn.  Yellow  squash.  Chipped  sweet  potatoes. 

Boiled  and  mashed  potatoes.  Croquette  potatoes. 

Boiled  rice. 

REIiEVE. 

Broiled  spring  chicken  with  asparagus. 

ENTREMETS. 

Charlotte  Russe.  Swiss  apple  tart.  Sweet  sandwiches. 

Banbury  cakes.  Plum  pudding,  brandy  sauce. 

Cerealine  pudding. 

SALAD. 

Queenstown  lettuce. 

CHEESE. 

Gorgonzola.  Cheshire.  Stilton.  Berkeley. 

DESSERT. 

Gooseberries.  Bananas.  Pineapples. 

Filberts.  French  prunes.  Figs.  Walnuts. 

Tea  Coffee. 


764  PBACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

MENUS    ON    BOARD    SHIP— (continued). 

The  following  bills  of  fare,  served  at  sea  between 
Suez  and  Aden,  form  an  average  criterion  of  the  ordinary 
business ;  such  bemg,  of  course,  gradually  altered 
according  to  the  climatic  changes  entailed  by  a  voyage 
to  or  from  the  Antipodes  : — 

FIRST    SALOON. -BREAKFAST. 

Porridge.  Finnon  haddocks.  Rump  steak  and  olives. 

Hashed  mutton  and  walnuts. 

Grijjed  ham  and  mashed  potatoes.  Omelette. 

Curry  and  rice.  Cold  round  of  beef. 


LUNCHEON. 

Galantine  of  turkey.        Ham.        Collared  head. 
Corned  brisket  of  beef.  Lobster  mayonnaise. 

Roast  shoulder  of  lamb,  mint  sauce. 

Veal  and  ham  pie.        Baked  potatoes.        Bath  buns. 

Iced  apricots. 


DINNER. 
SOUP. 

Brunoise. 

PISH. 

Cabillaud,  sauce  Hollandaise. 

JOINT. 

Roast  haunch  of  mutton,  red  currant  jelly. 

ENTKEES. 

Grenadins  de  veau  aux  navets.  Choux-fleurs  4  la  cr^me. 

POULTRY. 

Roast  turkey  and  ham.  Curry.  Kabobs. 

PASTRY. 

Nesselrode  pudding.  Compote  of  cherries. 

Naples  biscuits. 

CHILDREN'S    DINNER    MENU. 

Roast  beef,  Yorkshire  pudding.  Boiled  fowl  and  tongue. 

Curry  and  rice. 

Vermicelli  pudding.  Compote  of  pears. 


MENUS    AND    THEIR    COMPILATION  765 

MENUS     ON     BOARD     Slll-P—(con,tinued). 

MENU    OF    A    PRIVATE    LUNCHEON    AND 
DINNER    SERVED    ON    BOARD. 

/iRenu. 

PRIVATE    LUNCHEON. 

Chaud. 

Consomme  en  tasse. 
Homard  a  rAmericaine.  Champignons  sur  toast. 

Tournedos  a  la  Milanaise. 

Pommes  de  terre  Parisienne.  Corn  au  gratin. 

Haricots  verts  sautes. 

Spring  chicken  k  la  Maryland.  Perdreaux  rotis  cresson. 

Froid. 

Hors-d'oeuvres:  Chow-chow,  Cucumber  pickles,  Olives,  Chestnuts, 

Caviar,  Anchois. 

Striped  bass  k  la  Russe.  Homard  h  la  Frangaise. 

Jambon  de  Virginie.  Roast  beef  ^  TAnglaise. 

Dindonneau  nouveau.       Cranberry  sauce. 

Aspic  de  foie  gras  en  bellevue. 

Chicken  salad.  Salade  Italienne. 

Baba  glace.         Gateau  Montmorency. 

Glaces  assorties. 

Petits  gateaux. 

Dessert. 


/Ilbenu. 

DINER. 

Turtle. 

Salmon.  Sole. 

Chicken  salad. 

Sweetbreads. 

Saddle  of  mutton. 

Ham  and   salad. 

Escaloped  crab. 

Pate  de  foie  gras. 

Pudding  h  la  St.  George. 

Creams.  Jellies! 

Ice. 


766  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

SELECTION    OF    MENUS 

OF 

PUBLIC  AND  PRIYATE  LDHCHEONS,  DINNERS,  &  SUPPERS. 


DINNER 

Given  to  H.R.H.  the  Prince  of  Wales,  K.G.,  in  the 
]\Iiddle  Temple,  on  November  25,  1887. 

MENU. 

PBEMIER  SERVICE. 

Huttres. 

POTAGES. 
Tortue  liee.  Tortue  claire. 

POISSONS. 
Turbots,  sauce  homard.         Filets  de  soles  k  la  Normande. 

ENTK^ES. 

Eis  de  veau  a  la  financiere  en  caisses. 
Filets  de  faisans  ^  la  Perigord. 

KELEV^S. 

Dindons  braises,  sauce  aux  marrons. 
Jambons  braises.  Langue  de  boeuf. 

Selle  de  mouton  de  Galles. 

SECOND   SERVICE. 

ROTI. 
Becasses.        Becassines.        Perdrix. 

ENTREMETS. 
Cremes  d'Abricots.  Genoises  decorees. 

RELEVES. 

Biscuits  glaoes.  Plombieres  de  millefruits  glacis 

Pailles  de  fromage. 


MENUS   AND    THEIR    COMPILATION  767 


SELECTIOlSr     OF     M^l^^TJQ— (continued). 

At  the  Ball  given  by  His  Highness  the  Gaikwar 
OF  Bakoda,  at  the  Eoyal  Pavilion,  Brighton,  Decem- 
ber 12,  1887. 

POTAGE. 

Printanier. 

POISSOKS. 

Saumon  et  concombres.    Saumon  en  aspic. 
Saumon  en  mayonnaise.    Homards  en  aspic.     Homardaunaturel. 

ENTKEES  FKOIDES. 

Mauviettes  aux  Iruffes.     Cotelettes  d'agneau  en  aspic. 

Cotelettes  de  volaille  en  aspic.      Cotelettes  de  homards  glacees. 

Croustades  de  sarcelles.     Croustades  de  mauviettes  farcies. 

(Eufs  ^  rOrientale.  Sandwiches  d'anchois. 

Sandwiches  de  jambon. 

RELEVES  FROIDS. 

Dindes  farcies  aux  truffes.        Pates  de  gibier. 

P^tes  de  foies  gras.     Poulets  rotis  decoupes,  langues  de  boeuf. 

Poulets  bechamel  aux  petits  pois.        Faisans  rotis. 

Langues  de  boeuf.       Salades  de  homard.       Jambons  de  York. 

Perdreaux  rotis. 

ENTREMETS. 

Gateaux  de  Savoie.        Gateaux  Genevois. 

Petits  gateaux  aux  liqueurs.      Gelees  varies.      Creme  d'abricots. 

Creme  de  fraises.     Boudins  a  la  Reine.     Charlotte  Russe. 

FRUITS. 
Ananas.      Raisins.      Oranges.      Mandarines. 

GLACES. 
Fraise.  Citron.  Vanille. 

Boucbees  aux  huitres  h  la  Diable. 

49 


768  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

SELECTION     OP     MB'NUS^Ceontinued). 

At  the  Ball   given   by    Sir    Alfred  Jodeell,  Bart 
High  Sheriff  of  Norfolk,  in  St.  Andrew's  Hall,  Norwich 
November  24,  1888. 

POTAGES. 
Consomme  k  la  Dubois.        Cr^me  k  la  Russe. 

GROSSES  PIECES. 

Turbots  farcis  a  la  mayonnaise. 

Pdte  de  gibier  a  la  Valen9ay.      Pate  a  la  Pompadour. 

Hure  de  sanglier  k  la  chasseur.     Dindes  farcies  k  la  Montmorency. 

Dinde  en  galantine  aux  truffes. 

Poulet  bechamel  et  langne  a  la  Royale. 

Chaponsdecoupes  sur  socles  al'aspic.     Langues  de  boeuf  dla  gelee. 

Faisans  bardes  rotis.     Jambon  k  la  Portnall. 

Boeuf  a  la  Marie. 

ENTREES  FROIDES. 

Cotelettes  d'agneau  braisees,  sauce  piquante. 

Petites  timbales  de  foies  gras  a  I'lmperiale. 

Chaudfroid  de  perdrix.  Ris  de  veau  k  la  Diable. 

Bonnes-bouches  d'huitres  k  la  Waldteufel. 

Croutes  de  homard  k  la  Florentine. 

ENTREMETS. 
Gelee  au  parfait  d'amour.  Gelee  au  punch. 

Gelee  a  1' Alexandra  en  caisses. 
Bavarois  au  cafe.      Petites  corbeilles  de  fromage  au  chocolat. 
Chartreuses  de  peches  au  marasquin. 
Compotes  d'abricots  a  la  Conti. 
Petits  souffles  de  noix  de  coco  k  la  vanille. 
Chaumieres  aux  meringues.     Cupidons  avec  meringues  de  fruits 
Gateau  k  la  forteresse. 
Gateau  k  la  Napolitaine.  Trifles  k  la  Windsor. 

BONBONS. 

Huitres  d'amandes  a  la  vanille.     Petits  fours  au  liqueur. 

Champignons  au  chocolat.  Pommes  de  terre  au  Curasao 

Marrons  glaces.        Bouquets  de  fieurs  glaces. 

DESSERT 


MENUS   AND    THEIR    COMPILATION  769 


THE  UNITED  LAW  CLERKS'  SOCIETY, 

67tli      ANNIVERSARY      FESTIVAL. 
Wednesday,  June  26,  1889. 

MENU. 
Tortne  claire.        Cr^me  de  laitues. 

Whitebait,  plain  and  devilled. 

feaumon,  sauce  mousseline. 

Filets  de  soles  a  la  Spiers. 

Ris  de  veau  aux  pointes  d'asperges. 

Chaudfroid  de  poulet. 

Quartier  d'agneau. 

Filet  de  boeuf  k  la  Richelieu. 

Pommes  rissolees. 

Canetons  d' Aylesbury. 
Petits  pois.  Salade. 

Gateau  Quillet. 
Blancmanges.  Gelees. 

Parfait  glac^  a  la  printaniere. 


770  PRACTICAL    OASTEONOMY 


HONOURABLE  SOCIETV  OF  THE  INNER  TEMPLE. 

London  :   Wed)iesday,  July  10,  1889. 

MENU. 
Hors-d'oeuvre  :  Crevettes  au  naturel. 

Tortue  claire.  Toitue  liee. 

Ailerons  de  tortue. 

Truites  a  la  Chambord. 

Turbots,  sauce  Hollandaise. 

Blanchailles. 

Ris  de  veau  pique  a  la  Frangaise. 
Filets  mignons.     Chaudfroid  k  la  Rossini. 

Handle  de  venaison  aux  haricots  verts. 

Quartier  d'agneau  froid.  Salade. 

Jambon  braise  aux  f^ves  de  marais. 

Chapons  farcis  a  la  Perigord. 

Canetons  et  cailles. 

Crabe  garnie. 

Petits  pois  a  I'Anglaise. 

Gelees  aux  fruits. 
Pouding  k  la  Cerito,  froid. 
Souffles  glaces  au  liqueur. 

Croiites  aux  auchois  et  jambon. 


MENUS   AND    THEIR   COMPILATION  771 

ROYAL  AGRICULTURAL  SOCIETY  OF  ENGLAND. 

ANNUAL    BANQUET. 
July  21,  1889. 

MENU. 

POTAGE. 

Tortue. 

POISSONS. 

Whitebait. 

Filets  de  John  Dory,  sauce  Hollandaise. 

Truite  ^  la  Beauchamp. 

ENTKEES. 

Cremes  de  volaille  en  aspic  a  la  Victoria. 

Epigrammes  de  ris  de  veau  a  la  Sultane. 

Aspics  de  foie  gras. 

BELEVES. 

Hanches  de  venaison.      Selles  de  mouton. 
Jambons  brais6s. 

KOTI. 

Canetons.        Dindonneaux. 

ENTKEMETS. 

Gelee  d'ananas. 

Bavaroise  aux  fruits. 

Meringues  k  la  FranQaise. 

Compote  aux  conserves. 

Pouding  glace. 

Croutes  aux  anchois. 


772  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

FAREWELL  BANQUET  TO  MR.  AND  MRS.  KENDAL 

London  :  July  16,  1889. 

MENU. 

Hors-d'oeuvres. 

Clear  turtle  au  Madere. 
Consomme  a  la  f  ermiere. 

Trongons  de  saumon  a  la  Francfort. 

Filets  de  sole  au  vin  blanc. 

Whitebait,  naturel  et  a  la  Diable. 

Mousse  de  volaille  aux  truffes. 
Chaudfroid  de  pigeons  a  la  bordelaise. 

Selle  de  mouton  h.  la  broche. 

Jambon  a  I'aspic. 

Pommes  de  terre  chateau. 

Petits  pois  a  la  Frangaise. 

Salade  a  I'Allemande. 

Sorbet  au  Champagne. 

CaiUes  de  vignes  au  cresson. 
Salade  de  laitues  a  la  cr^me. 

Baba  a  la  Chantilly,  sauce  framboise. 

Gelee  aux  peches. 

Gateau  royal. 

Croutes  au  fromage. 

Euisson  de  glace  Napolitaine. 
Petites  gaufrettes. 

Dessert. 

Cafe  noir. 


MENUS    AND    THEIR    COMPILATION  773 

ANNUAL  MANSION  HOUSE  BANQUET, 

London  :  J^ine  17,  1890. 

MENU. 

POTAGES. 

Tortue  claire.  Tortue  liee. 

POISSONS. 

John  Dory,  sauce  cupres.  Truite,  sauce  Italienne. 

ENTKEES. 

Petites  caisses  a  la  Toulouse.  Turban  oriental  k  la  Veni&e. 

RELEVES. 

Selle  de  mouton.  Hanche  de  venaison.  Jambon  brake . 

Poulardes  a  la  Zingara.fc.        Pintades.        Canetons. 

ENTREMETS. 

Crevettes  en  aspic.  Charlotte  a  la  Polonaise. 

Compote  de  fruits. 

Gelee  ^  la  Dantzic.        Meringues  a  la  vanille.        Pouding  glace. 


REGIMENTAL   BANQUET, 

Dublin  :  October  3,  1890. 

MENU. 

Soups, 

Itahan  clear.  Tomato. 

Fish. 

Crimped  cod  and  oyster  sauce. 

Filleted  soles  and  shrimp  sauce. 

Entrees. 

Veal  cutlets.  Oyster  patties. 

Removes. 

Saddles  of  mutton. 

Sirloin  of  beef  and  horseradish  sauce. 

Boiled  turkeys  and  tongue  with  celery  sauce. 

Roast  ducks.  Roast  geese.  Boiled  fowls.  York  ham. 

Game. 
Hares.        Pheasants.        Grouse. 

Sweets. 
Canary  puddings  with  sherry  sauce. 
Gooseberry  tarts.  Cup  custards. 

Apricot  chartreu-e.  Royal  trifle. 


774  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 


MENU  OF  A  MASONIC  BANQUET. 

Oysters. 

SOUP 

Consomme  Macedoine  a  la  Koyale.        Thick  mock  turtle. 

FISR. 

Boiled  turbot,  lobster  sauce.     Red  mullets,  Italian  sauce. 

ENTREES. 

FiQets  of  pigeons  a  la  Duxelle.      Sweetbreads  ^  la  Toulouse. 
Lamb  cutlets  jardiniere. 
Asparagus  en  branches. 

JOIXTS. 

Sirloin  of  beef.    Saddle  of  mutton.    Boiled  turkey,  celery  sauce. 
York  ham.     Pioast  chickens.      Ducklings. 

GAME. 

Pheasants.        Grouse.        Wild  ducks. 
Sardines  on  toast. 

SWEETS. 

Wine  jellies.      Vanilla  cream.      Compote  of  apricots.     Prunes. 
Compote  of  pineapple.       Pastry. 

ICE. 
Pudding  a  la  Nesselrode. 

DESSERT. 
English  pineapples  Grapes,  &c. 


MENUS    AND    THEIR   COMPILATION  775 


LIST    OF    TOASTS. 

The  Queen — Pateon  of  the  Craft. 

"  The  God  of  Heaven  both  now  and  ever  bless  her." 

Henry  VIII. 

The  Most  Worshipful  the  G.M.  of  England  and  the 
Grand  Lodge. 

"The  Rightful  Heir  to  England's  ThxonQ:'— Henry  IV. 
"  Ever  beloved  and  loving  may  his  rule  be." — Henry  VIII. 

The  R.W.  Prov.  G.M.,  the  W.D.  Prov.  G.M.,  and  the  Prov. 
Grand  Lodge. 

"  Thou  wast  installed  in  that  high  degree." — Henry   VI. 
"  The  Deputy — a  brother  of  your  order." — Henry  IV. 

The  W.M. 

"  The  Master — 'tis  he  indeed  !     We  find  him  a  fit  fellow." 

Henry  VIII. 

Sister  Lodges  and  their  W.M.s 
"  Our  old  and  faithful  friends,  we  are  glad  to  see  you." 

Measure  for  Measv/re. 

The  J.M.  and  P.M.  of  the  Lodge. 

"  You  have  made  good  work,  you  and  your  apron  men." 

Coriolanus. 
The  Charities. 

•'  The  quality  of  mercy  is  not  strained :  it  is  twice  blessed ; 
it  blesseth  him  that  gives  and  him  that  takes." — Merchant  of 
Venice. 

Visiting  Brethren. 

*'  You  are  welcome,  my  guests,  and  to  you  all  good  health." 

Henry  VIII. 
Officers  of  the  Lodge. 

"  Be  but  duteous,  and  true  preferment  shall  tender  itself  to 
thee." —  Cymheline. 

The  Tyler's  Toast. 

**  The  Lord  bless  you ;  God  prosper  your  affairs  1     God  send  you 

peace." — Henry  IV. 


776  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOIMY 

MEHU  OF  THE  BMQDET  OFFERED  TO  THE  GERMAB 
EMPEROR  AND  EMPRESS  AT  THE  CRYSTAL  PALACE. 

August  1891. 

HOKS-D'CEUVKES. 

Crevettes  en  buisson.      Olives  farcies.      Anchois. 

POTAGE. 

Consomme  aux  quenelles. 

POISSONS. 

Tmrbot,  sauce  Hollandaise. 

Truite  a  la  Noixegienne. 

Blanchailles. 

ENTREES. 

Chaudfroid  de  cailles  a  la  Financiere. 
Cotelettes  d'agneau  aux  pointes  d'asperges. 

BELEVE. 

Selle  de  mouton. 

Haricots  verts. 

Salade. 

ROT. 

Poulets  nouveauy, 

Jambon  saute. 

Asperges  froides  au  beurre  fondu. 

ENTREMETS. 

Gelee  mosaique. 

Charlotte  aux  peches  Nougats  4 1'lmperatrice. 

Macedoine  de  fruits  glaces. 

SouflSe  glace  au  gingembre. 

Caviare. 

Dessert.  Cafe. 


MENUS    AND    THEIR    COMPILATION  77T 


LIBERAL    UNION    CLUB, 

LONDON. 

Wednesday,  July  81,  1889. 
QjUenu. 

Potage  a  la  sante.  Puiee  de  levraut. 

Whitebait. 

Souchet  de  carrelets  et  saumon. 

Bissoles  de  homard.  Petites  soles  frites. 

Boudins  de  merlans  a  la  Danoise. 

Anguilles   etuvees  h  la   Bordelaise. 

Truite  grillee,  sauce  a  la  Tartare. 

Kouge  et  noir. 

Saumon  a  la  Norvegienne. 

Quartier  d'agneau  roti  aux  haricots  verts. 

Canetons  rotis  et  petits  pois  verts. 

Jambon  grille  a  la  diable  et  salad e  de  tomates. 

Gelee  au  vin.  Dames  d'honneur. 

Meringues  a  la  cr^me. 

Pouding  ^   la  Nesselrode. 

Pailles  de  fromage. 

Dessert. 


778  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

MENU  OF  A  MONSTER  DINNER 

Served  at  the  Metropolitan  Opera  House,  New  York, 
February  1,  1887, 

On  the  occasion  of  the  Twenty-first  Anniversary  of  the 
"  Societe  Culinaire  Philanthropique." 

iMiiEnsrTJ- 

POTA  QE. 

Consomme  a  la  d'Oiieans. 

HORS-D'(EUVRES. 

Olives.         Jambon  de  Westphalie.         Saucissons  de  Lyon. 

Cornichons.         Celeri. 

Mayonnaise  de  volaille.        Salade  de  homard. 

Huitres  a  la  poulette. 

RELEVk 

Filet  de  bcEuf  aux  champignons. 
Petits  pois  4  la  frangaise. 

ENTREES. 

Saumon  ^  la  Talleyrand.        Aspic  de  langoustes  a  la  russe. 

Pain  de  gibier  en  Bellevue. 

Groupe  de  perdreaux  a  la  Mirabeau. 

Pate  de  volaille  a  la  Parisienne. 

Cotelettes  de  pigeon  a  la  Lucullus. 

Cassolettes  de  mauviettes  a  la  Ptenaissance. 

Paupiettes  de  veau  au  gastronome.        Langue  de  boeuf  historiee. 

Estomacs  de  dindonneaux  a  rambassadrice. 

Supreme  de  canard  an  gourmet. 

Timbale  de  gelinottes  a  la  Napolitaine. 

Chaudfroid  de  pluviers  4  la  Ninon. 

Galantine  de  faisan  a  la  Perigourdine. 

Pyramide  de  ballotines  de  volaille. 

Filet  de  boeuf  a  la  Choisy. 

GROSSES  PIECES. 

Grand  pate  de  gibier  sur  socle. 

Quartier  d'antilope  a  I'Africaine. 

Cotes  de  boeuf  a  I'anglaise.         Chaudtroid  varie  a  la  Diane. 

Voliere  de  perdreaux  rouges.       Bass  raye  a  la  Dieppoise. 

Bastion  de  gibier  k  I'ancienne. 

Coqs  de  bruyere   4  la  Tyrolienne. 

Hure  de  sanglier  au  chasseur.  Selle  d'ag-neau  a  la  Normandie. 

Cuissot  de  veau  i\  la  Bernoise. 

Cimier  de  chevreuil  a  la  hongroi.-e. 


MENUS    AND    THEIR    COMPILATION  779 


FANTAISIES  CULINAIRES. 

Le  traineau  d'Uncle  Sam.         Lesaumon  Ecossais. 

Josephine.         La  fermeture  de  la  chasse. 

Galantine  de  dinde  h,  I'ananas. 

Cupidon  sur  galantine  k  I'abondance. 

Le  saumon,  Bartholdi.  Le  saumon,  Nautilus. 

Le  casque  orne  de  plumage.  La  defense  du  nid. 

Ballotines  de  chapon  a  la  Morizet  sec.         Le  fort  Indie  n. 

Le  corbeau  et  le  renard.         La  mare  aux  canards. 

Saumon  ^  la  Murray  Hill.         Le  saumon,  Puritain. 

Galantine  en  guitare  k  la  Frascuelo, 

Voli^re  de  gibier  ^  la  moderne.         Mercure. 

Saumon  anachiste  ^  la  course  aux  grenouilles. 

Galantine  de  gibier  a  la  St.  Denis.         Une  mosa'ique. 

Le  trophee  du  succfes.         Pain  de  gibier  ^  la  Gilsey. 

La  couronne  de  langues.         Panier  d'abondance. 

Le  jambon,  Arlequin.         La  tourde  Babel. 

Expedition  telegraphique.         Buisson  de  cailles  ^  la  Floride. 

Piite  de  gibier  ^  la  Grande-Union.  L'enlevement  du  couvent. 

La  fierte  de  I'onde.         Grande  salade  de  homard. 

Tu  me  fais  rire.        Pate  de  foie  gras  a  1' Augusts  Michel. 

L'esclave  grecque.  Galantine  de  perdreaux  ^  la  Sinclair. 

La  liberte  nourrissant  le  monde.         Bass  k  la  Borgia. 

Chaudfroid  de  perdreaux  k  la  Normandie. 

Park  Avenue  combinaison.        Le  coq  sans  plumes. 

Un  buffet.         Le  dejeuner  rustique. 

PIECES  DE  PATISSERIE. 

France  et  Amerique.        La  fontaine  monumentale. 

Les  brioches  de  '48.         La  lanterne  antique. 

Maison  projet  de  la  S.  C.  P.  Montagnard  Ecossais. 

Une  corne  d'abondance.         Le  voltigeur  Hollandais. 
La  villa  du  jardin  de  roses.        Corbeille  Montmorency. 

Les  differentes  etapes  du  cuisinier.     Chalet  Suisse. 

La  famille  Neerlandaise.  La  fontaine  fantastique. 

Kuche  en  meringue.         Le  pole  nord. 

Croquembouche  Parisien.        Le  tromphe  de  Xeres, 

DESSERT, 

Macarons  Hollandais.        Biscuit  k  la  vanille. 

Petits  fours.  Mendiants.  Fruits  assortis. 

Glaces  fantaisies.        Demi-tasse. 


780  PKACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

A    GRAND    DINNER. 

The  followiug  is  the  copy  of  a  Menu  of  a  Dinner  which  was 
served  to  a  party  of  twenty  persons  at  a  London  hotel  in  the 
summer  of  1888. 

The  dinner  was  ordered  with  the  most  uncommon  condition, 
viz,  that  it  should  not  cost  less  than  £500.  The  menu,  it  is 
needless  to  say,  consisted  of  every  delicacy  that  could  be  found 
in  Europe,  The  dinner  cards  were  artistically  hand-painted. 
The  wines  were  mostly  from  the  cellars  of  the  King  of  Bavaria, 
and  included  Chateau- Yquem,  Cr^me  de  1861 ;  Waterloo  Sherry, 
1815  ;  Liestenstein,  1831  ;  Castle  Cabinet  Johannisberg,  1831 ; 
Chateau-Lafitte.  Grand  Vin,  1846  ;  Bolhnger,  1868 ;  Imperial 
Tokay  The  Essence,  1811. 

HORS-D'CEUVBES. 

(Eufs  de  pluvier  en  aspic.         Saumon  fume. 
Petites  sardines  de  Novege.  Crevettes  de  Cherbourg. 

POTAGES. 
Tortus  liee.  Consomme  Mettemich. 

POISSONS. 

Truite  du  lac  de  Geneve,  Cote  d'Estournel. 

Sauces  Genevoise  et  diplomate,  et  Pommes  nouvelles  Hollandaise. 

Mousse  de  laitances  de  carpe,  sauce  riche. 

Friture  de  gougon  de  la  Seine. 

ENTREES. 

Timbale  de  queues  d'ecrevisses  de  I'Oder  a  la  Bohemienne. 

Bastion  de  poulardes  de  Bresse  a  la  d'Albufera. 

Sella  d'agneau  a  1' Agnes  Sorel  au  Malvoisie.    Punch  k  la  marquise. 

Chaudfroid  de  supremes  de  cailles  a  la  Moderne. 

ROTS. 

Caneton  ^  la  Eouennaise  flanque  d'ortolans  de  Boheme. 
Salade  k  la  Russe  et  laitue  aux  ceufs  de  vanneau, 

LEGUMES. 

Asperges  d'Argenteuil,  sauce  mousseline  au  beurre  d'Isigny. 
Truffes  du  Perigord  en  serviette  au  Pommery  Greno,  1874. 

ENTREMETS. 

Pudding  souffle  k  la  Washington. 

Suedoise  de  peches  de  Montreuil  a  la  duchesse. 

Gateau  Napolitain  a  Torientale.  Petits  fours  princesse. 

Bombes  Nesselrode  a  I'ambassadrice. 

Petite  V^nitienne.  Royan  sur  canape. 


MENUS    AND    THEIR    COMPILATION  781 

SOCIETY    BANQUET 

Held  at  the  WATERLOO  HOTEL,  EDINBURGH, 

50  Covers,  at  £4,  inclusive  of  "Wines. 

Les  Hultres.  Caviar.  Radis. 

(Montrachet  le  Guiche.) 

Bouillabaisse  ^  la  proven^ale  (Ponche  glace). 

Croute  au  pot.        Tortue  a  I'Anglaise  (Vino  de  Pasto). 

Cervelles  de  veau  ^  la  Villeroi. 

Filets  de  sandre  a  la  cardinal  (de  Berlin). 

(1868er  Steinberger  Cabinet.) 

Turbot,  sauce  d'homard.  Filets  de  soles  k  la  Dreux. 

Grives  en  petites  caisses  (1874er  Jules  Mumm). 

Boudins  de  perdreaux  k  la  Richelieu. 

Poulet  de  Bresse.  Salade. 

Filet  de  boeuf  au  jus  d'orange. 

Quartier  d'agneau,  sauce  menthe. 

Pommes  de  terre  nouvelles.  Petits  pois  nouveaux. 

Jambon  aux  epinards,  sauce  Madere. 

Faisans.        Pluviers  d'or.        Canards  sauvages. 

Asperges.  Celeri  rave.  Cepes  a  la  bordelaise. 

Langoustes,  sauce  ravigote. 

(Cura9ao.  Brandy.  Kiimmel.  Benedictine.) 

Ponding  a  la  mousseline. 

Peches  -X  la  Varin.        Gelee  au  kirsch. 

(Chateau- Lafite  1864.) 

Petits  gateaux  bagatelles.         Ananas  a  la  Cingalese. 

(Amontillado  finissimo.) 

Fromage  glace  a  la  Figaro  (Port  1824). 

Gnocchi  au  parmesan  tx,  la  Romaine. 

Dessert.  Glaces.  Eau  de  mandarines. 

Creme  de  framboises. 


782  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 


BANQUET 

Held  at  St.  Stephen's  Club,  London,  February  IS,  1884, 

POTAGE. 
Tortue  claire  liee.  Puree  d'asperges. 

POISSONS. 

Saumon  a  la  Paris  ienne. 

Filets  de  sole  ^  la  Normande. 

Blanchailles, 

ENTREES. 

Foie  gras  de  Strasbourg  aux  pointes. 

Chartreuse  de  caille,  Perigueux. 

Chaudfroid  de  becassine  k  la  Beaconsfield. 

RELEVES. 
Handle  de  venaison.        Haricots  verts. 
Selle  de  mouton.  Epinards. 

Quartier  d'agneau.  Petits  pois. 

ROTIS. 

Poulardes  et  canetons,  salade  FranQaise. 
Petits  pois  et  pommes   de  terre  nouvelles. 

Keleve  de  Rotis. 
Aspic  de  homard  a  la  De  la  Rue. 

ENTREMETS. 
Abricots  k  la  Conde.  Pouding  ^  la  Nesselrode. 

Croute  aux  merluches.  Croute  aux  laitances  de  harecgs. 

Dessert  glace. 
Orange  water  ice.  Apricot  ice. 


MENUS    AND    THEIR   COMPILATION  783 


A  PARLIAMENTARY   DINNER. 

POTAGES. 
Broth  of  a  Boy-cott.         Tortue  fausse. 

POISSONS. 

Brochet  vorace  h.  la  Tenancier.    Anguilles  glissantes 
(sauce  Parnell). 

ENTKEES. 

Bifteks  en  lits-de-plancher.  Eagout  Irlandais. 

Vol-au-vent,  Plan  de  Campagne. 

KOTS. 

Sucking  pig,  farci.  Boar's  head  k  la  M.P. 

Taureau  Irlandais. 

VOLAILLES. 

Pigeons  depouilles  a  la  Proprietaire. 

Tourterelles  k  la  Ligue  Nationale. 

Canards  sauvages  a   la   Presse  Hibernaise. 

LEG-UMES. 
Pommes  de  terre  a  la  Murphy. 

ENTREMETS. 

Petits  boulets  ^  la  Clair-de-lune.         Pouding  "Coercion." 
Pat-isseries  variees. 

DESSERT. 
Pommes  de  Discorde.        Oranges  ecorchees. 


50 


784  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

A  LITERARY  MENU  OF  A  DINNER  SERVED  ON  BOARD 
OF  AN  AMERICAN  STEAMSHIP. 

mm  of  jFare. 

There's  no  want  of  meat,  sir, 

Portly  and  curious  viands  are  prepared. 

To  please  all  Muds  of  appetite, — Massinger. 

OYSTERS. 

Oysters  on  the  half-shell. 
He  was  a  brave  man  who  first  ate  an  oyster. — Dean  Swift. 

SOUP. 

Green  turtle  and  consomme  a  la  Royale, 
A  hasty  plate  of  soup.—  WinfieUl  Scott, 

HORS-D'CEUVRES. 

Olives.  Croquettes  of  venison.  Celery. 

And  such  small  deer  have  been  Tom's  food. — Shakespeare. 

FISH. 

Salmon  boiled,  shrimp  sauce. 
Master,  I  marvel  how  the  fishes  live. — Shakespeare. 

JOINTS,  &c. 
1.  Roast  ribs  of  beef,  with  horseradish  and  browned  potatoes. 

Oh,  the  roast  beef  of  old  England ! 

And,  oh,  the  old  English  roast  beef ! — Fielding. 

2.  Chicken  saut6  a  la  Marengo. 
And  count  their  chickens  ere  they're  hatched. — Butler. 

3.  Frogs'  legs  en  fricassee. 
Like  a  toad  i'  the  ho\e.—Shake'<peare. 

4.  Saddle  of  mutton  roasted,  with  jelly  and  asparagus. 

A  pound  of  man's  flesh  is  not  so  estimable,  profitable  neither,  as  flesh  of 
mutton. — Shakespeare. 


MENUS    AND    THEIR   COMPILATION  785 

PUNCH  A  LA  ROMAINE. 

Drink  to  the  lass ; 
I'll  warrant  she'll  prove  an  excuse  for  the  glass  I— Sheridan. 

GAME. 

1.  Wild  ducks  roasted,  with  jelly  and  cress. 

Art  thou  drawn  forth,  among  a  world  of  men,  to  slay  the  innocent  ? 

Shakespeare, 
2.  Robins  on  toast. 

Call  for  the  robin  redbreast.— TFe&ster. 

SALADS. 

Chicken  mayonnaise  and  lobster  mayonnaise. 

Oh  great  and  glorious,  oh  herbaceous  meat ! 

'Twould  tempt  the  dying  anchorite  to  eat. 

Back  to  the  world  he'd  turn  his  weary  soul. 

And  dip  his  fingers  in  the  salad-bowl. — Sydney  Smith, 

SWEETS. 

Macaroon  pudding,  Charlotte  russe. 

Compote  of  fruits.  Citron  cake. 

Confectionery. 

Sweets  to  the  sweet,  —Shakespeare, 

Vanilla  ice  cream. 

You  are  the  vanilla  of  society. — Sydney  Smith, 

FRITITS. 

Duchesse  pears.        Black  Hamburg  grapes. 

Peaches.  Oranges.  English  walnuts. 

Across  the  walnuts  and  the  wine. — Tennyson, 

TEA. 

Tea,  thou  soft,  thou  sober  sage. — Cibber, 

COFFEE. 

Coffee,  which  makes  the  politician  vnse.—Pojoe, 

CIGARS. 

Give  me  a  cigar. — Byron, 


Fate  cannot  harm  me  ; 

I  have  dined  to-day. — Sydney  Smith. 


786  PRACTICAL   GASTRONOMY 


FKENOH    CHRISTMAS    DINNER    MENU. 


GRAND  HOTEL  MONTFLEURY,  CANNES, 
^enu  De  IRoel,  1888. 

POTAGE. 

Consomme  de  volaille  Mont-Flem-i. 

POISSOW. 

Saumon  de  la  Loire,  sauce  aux  huitres. 

BELEVE. 
Filet  de  boeuf  glac6  k  la  Fontainebleau,  sauce  au  Sherry. 

ENTKEES. 

Supreme  de  perdreaux  ^  la  Marechale. 

Galantine  de  dinde  sur  socle  ^  la  Nationale. 

Punch  au  Chateau- Yquem. 

ENTREMETS  DE  LEGUMES. 

Asperges  de  Nice  en  branches,  sauce  mousseline. 

ROTS. 

Faisans  d'J&cosse  truffes  a  la  voliere,  sauce  P^rigueux. 
Salade  de  tete  de  laitue. 

ENTREMETS. 

Plum  pudding  a  I'Anglaise.  Glace  ^  la  Venitienne, 

Gateaux  du  Congres, 

Chalet  rustique  historic. 

Desserts  et  paniers  de  fruits  assortis. 


MENUS  AND   THEIR   COMPILATION  787 


DINER  DE  L'EXPOSITION  A  PARIS,   1889. 


Potage :  Creme  d'ecrevisse  Saint  Germain. 

Rissoles  Lucullus.        Tartelettes  Conti. 

Saumon,  sauce  indienne. 

Turbot,    sauce    Normande. 

Quartier  de  marcassin  Moscovite. 

Poulardes  Perigordines. 

Homards  Bordelaises. 

Chaudfroids  de  becfigues. 

Granites,     fine      Champagne. 

Spooms  au  Clicquot. 

Paons  truffes.        Rocher  de  foies  gras. 

Salade  Russe. 

Asperges,  sauce  mousseline. 

Glace  Eiffel.         Glace  centenaire. 

Gaufrettes. 

Gateau  millefeuilles.        Gateau  Napolitain. 

Dessert. 

ViNS. 

Madere  1858,  retour  de  I'lnde. 

Grand  Montrachetl877. 

Saint-Nicolas  Bourgueil  1884. 

Smith  Haute-Laffitte  1875.        Chambertin  1877. 

Chateau.  Yquem  1875. 

Veuve  Clicquot.        Georges  Goulet  1884. 

Fine  Champagne  1842. 

Caf6s.       Liqueurs. 


788 


PBACTICAL    GASTKONOMY 


CINQUANTENAIRE  DES  CHEMINS  DE   PER  BELGES. 

FIFTIETH    ANNIVEKSARY    OF     THE     BELGIAN 
RAILWAYS. 

BANQUET 

offert  le  15  Aoiit  par  le  Ministre  des  Chemins  de  Fer, 
Postes  et  Telegraphes. 

Bruxelles :  Eestaurant  Dubost  freres,  Sapin  successeur. 

600  COUVEETS. 


Sherry,  dry. 

Chateau  La  Tour,  blanche. 

Chateau  LeoviUe. 

Moet  et  Chandon. 

Chateau  Haute  Brion. 


Chateau  Richebourg. 

G.  H.  Mumm. 

Louis  Eoederer. 

Porto  royaL 

Cafe. 

Liqueurs. 


/iRenu. 

Potage  Condorcet. 

Sakuska  ^  la  Russe. 

Truites  saumonees  ^  la  Cambaceres. 

Filet  de  bcEuf  k  la  Maintenon. 

Petits  poussins  k  I'lndienne. 

Ris  de  veau  4  la  Portugaise. 

(Punch  Christiania.) 

Salade  k  I'ltalienne. 

Karibou  de  Lasadar  venaison. 

Colins  de  la  Virginie. 

Foies  gras  de  Colmar  en  Bellevue. 

Cotelettes  de  langouste  k  la  Henrion. 

Gelee  d'ananas  ^  la  Laguipiere. 

Bombe  aux  avelines. 

Dessert.  Fruits. 


MENUS    AND    THEIR   COMPILATION  789 


BELO-I^lSr     Is^EHSTTJ. 


BANQUET 

ojffert  par  la  Cour  d'Appel  de  Bruxelles  a  Monsieur  le 
Procureur  General  Van  Schooe,  11  Decembre,  1886. 

/IRenu. 

Hultres  royales  d'Ostende. 
Ox- tail. 


{ 


Potaores 

Consomme  d'Orleans. 

Petites  caisses  de  ris  de  veau  a  la  Kossini. 

Turbot,  sauce  aux  crevettes. 

Piece  de  Durham  a  la  broche,  sauce  bearnaise. 

Cimier  de  chevreuil,  grand  veneur. 

Poularde  de  Breda  a  la  Cambaceres. 

Aspic  de  homards  en  belle-vue. 

(Punch  Suedois.) 

Celeris  braises  ^  la  moelle. 

Becasses  en  canape.        Compote. 

Terrine  de  foies  gras  de  Strasbourg. 

Salade. 

Pouding  ^  la  LucuUus. 

Bombe  Nelusco. 

Fruits.  Dessert. 

(Vins.) 


790  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 


DEJEUNER    DINATOIRB 

given  on  the  occasion  of  a  Wedding,  December  17, 1889, 

at  the  Grand  Central  Hotel,  Johannesburg,  Transvaal, 

South  Africa. 

100     COUVERTS. 

HOBS-D'CEUVBES. 

Caviar  on  toast.         Radishes.  Olives. 

ENTREES. 

Mayonnaise  of  salmon  montSe. 
Bouchees  ^  la  reine.        Chicken  pie. 

JOINTS. 

Poularde  en  gelee. 
Turkey  farci  a  la  Viennoise. 

VEGETABLES. 

Potatoes  ^  la  Parisienne. 

Peas  k  I'Anglaise.      Asparagus,  sauce  remoulade. 

Cucumbers  and  lettuce. 

PASTBT. 

Baba  au  rhum.     Trifles.     Custards  an  champagne. 
Jellies.     Cakes  varies. 

DESSEBT. 
Assorti.    Cheeses  assortis.    Coffee.    Tea. 

■WINES,  ETC. 

Amontillado.  German  and  English  ales. 

Chateau  Lafitte.      Pontet  Canet. 

Barsac.        Steinwein.        Rudesheimerberg.         Johannisberger. 

Pommery  Greno.        Benedictine.        Curasao. 

Maraschino. 


MENUS    AND    THEIR   COMPILATION  791 

HOLZWARTH'S     HOTEL,     BUDAPEST. 

Menu  du  Diner,  March  20th,  1887. 

Potage  k  la  Princesse  (Sherry). 

Hoes-d'ceuvee  :  Kissoles  au  salpicon  h  la  riche. 

PoiSSON :  Saumon  du  Rhin  ^  la  ravigote  (Ermelleki). 

Eeleve  :  Filet  de  boeuf  h  la  r§gence. 

Entree  :  Cotelettes  d'agneau  k  la  Dauphine  (Egri  Burgnndi). 

Sorbet  :  Punch  au  champagne. 

RoTi :  Poulet  nouveau  farci,  salade  de  laitue. 

Compote  FranQaise  (Heidsieck  monopole). 

Legumes  :  Asperges  en  branches. 

Entremets  :  Bombe  glacee  a  la  Marie  Louise. 

Dessert  :  Patisserie.        Fruits.        Fromage  (Tokaji  asszu). 

Mokka.        Liqueur. 


SHEPHEARD'S    HOTEL,    CAIRO. 

Diner  du  12  Novembre,  1888. 

Potage  aux  perles  du  Japon. 

Bouchees  de  crevettes.        Roastbeef  k  rancienne. 

Petites  timbales  k  la  Montpensier. 

Courlis  rotis.    Salade.     Courges  k  la  Turque. 

Charlotte  k  la  Russe. 

Dessert.        Cafe  k  la  Turque, 


792  PEACTICAL   GASTEONOMT 

MENU    OF    THE    DINNER 

given  by  the  Sultan  to  the  Empeeor  William  on  the 
occasion  of  his  visit  to  Constantinople,  Nov.  23, 1889. 

Consomme  de  volaille  ^  I'Allemande. 

Petites  bouchees  et  Beureks. 

Bar  imperial. 

Filet  de  boeuf  royal. 

Escalopes  de  b^casses  aux  truffes. 

Cotelettes  de  foie  gras  Strasbourgeoises. 

Asperges  en  branche. 

Punch  h  la  Romaine, 

Faisans  et  cailles  rot  is. 

Pillau. 

Ananas  a  la  Victoria. 

Timbales  Suisses.        Panier  de  glaces. 


MENU    OF    THE    DINNER 

given  by  the  Queen-Eegent  of  Spain  to  H.M.  Queen 
ViCTOPtiA,.  Villa  Ay  ate,  near  San  Sebastian,  April 
4,  1889. 

Consomme  Louis  XV. 

Soles  a  rOrly. 

Filets  de  boeuf  Perigord. 

Cotelettes  h  la  Alphonse  XIII. 

Chaud-froid  de  cailles  a  I'aspic. 

Asperges  Aranjuez. 

Chapons  de  Bayonne  rotis. 

Salade  Venitienne. 

Babas  ^  I'Americaine. 

Cremes  vanille  et  chocolat. 

Glaces. 

Vins  :  X6r^s  (1830).        Johannisberg. 

Chateau  Lafitte.         Porto  (1815). 

Champagne  (Clicquot). 


MENUS    AND    THEIR    COMPILATION  793 

TRANS-AFRIGAN    RAILWAY    COMPANY. 
Inaugueatiox  of  the  First  Section. 


COMPAGNIE    DES    CHEMINS    DE     FER    A 
TRAVERS    L'AFRIQUE. 

Inaugiaration  de  la  premiere  section, 
Loanda,  31  Octobre,  1888. 

500   COUVEETS. 

/Iftenu* 

Sardines.        Olives  vertes.        Saucisson  de  Lyon. 

CEufs  farcis. 

Noix  de  veau  glacees  aux  petits  pois  en  salade. 

Pates  de  volaille  en  croutes. 

Pains  de  foies  gras  aux  truffes.      Galantines  de  dindes  en  gelee. 

Hures  de  sanglier  aux  pistaches. 

Filets  de  volaille  en  chaudfroid. 

Jambonneaux  de  poulet  ^  la  gelee. 

Dindes  roties. 

Salade  verte.        Cochons  de  lait  rotis  decoupes. 

Jambons  d'York  braises,  glacis. 

Asperges  en  branches  ^  la  vinaigrette. 

Salade  de  legumes  a.  la  Russe,  dans  des  saladiers. 

Gateaux  Victoria. 

Biscuits  Genois.        Palais  de  dames.        Croutes  au  fondant. 

Fruits  frais  varies.        Crimes  au  caramel. 

Blancs-mangers  panaches. 

Bavarois  de  riz  Imperatrice.        Choux  k  la  creme  vanille. 

Eclairs  au  chocolat. 

Champagne.        Madere.        Porto.        Cafe. 

Cognac.        Liqueurs  assorties. 


794  PBACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 


MENU    OF    THE    DINNER 

given  by  Peince  Akihito  Komatsu  no  Muja,  at  the 
Hotel  Imperial,  Vienna,  February  24,  1887. 

Hultres  d'Ostende  (Chablis). 

POTAGE. 

Tortue  k  I'Anglaise  (Sherry,  very  old). 
Puree  k  la  reine. 

HORS-D'CEIUVKES. 

Petites  bouchees. 

RELEVES. 

Saumon  du  Rhin,  sauce  ravigote. 

(Hochheimer  Dom-Dechaney,  1876.) 

Filet  de  boeuf  a  la  Kichelieu  (Chateau  Lafitte,  1875). 

ENTREES. 

Homard  en  Bellevue.      Supreme  de  volaille  k  la  Chambord. 
Sorbet  a  I'lmp^riale  (Murom,  extra  dry). 

ROTI. 

Faisan  dore  roti  aux  trufEes  de  Perigord. 
Salade  Fran^aise.        Compote. 

LEGUME. 

Asperges  fraiches. 

ENTREMETS. 

Croute  k  I'ananas.        Glace  k  la  Montblanc. 
(Tokajer  Essenz  1798 :  specialite  de  la  maison.) 

DESSERT. 

Patisserie.        From  ages.        Fruits. 
(Caf6  noir.        Liqueurs.) 


MENUS    AND    THEIR    COMPILATION  795 

HER      MAJESTY'S      DINNER. 

Windsor  Castle  :  Tuesday,  July  7,  1891. 

POTAGES. 

Bisque  d'ecrevisses  aux  quenelles. 
Le  printanier. 

POISSONS. 

Les  tranches  de  saumon,  sauces  Genevoise  et  Tartare. 

Les  filets  de  soles  frits. 

ENTBEE. 
Les  petits  vol-au-vents  financi^re. 

RELEVES. 

Haunches  of  venison. 

Koast  beef. 

ROT. 

Les  caiUes  bardees  aux  feuilles  de  vigne. 

ENTREMETS. 

Les  asperges  a  la  sauce. 

Les  cotelettes  de  volaille  k  la  gelee. 

La  Charlotte  Russe  aux  fraises. 

Les  petits  babas  au  curagao. 


DEJEUNER 

to  H.R.H.  Prince  George  of  Wales,  K.G.,  on  his 
admission  to  the  Freedom  of  the  City,  June  1, 1889. 

/Iftenu. 

Clear  turtle  soup. 

Salmon  mayonnaise.  Crayfish  croquettes. 

Lamb  cutlets  and  peas. 

Lobster  salads.         Quails  in  aspic  jelly.         Perigord  pies. 

Mayonnaise  of  chicken.         Ribs  of  lamb. 

Roast  chickens. 

Galantine  of  capons.         Tongues. 

Hams.      Foies  gras  chaudfroid.       Bavaroise  a  la  moderne. 

Victoria  creams.         Clear  and  noyau  jellies. 

Compotes  of  apricots. 

Pastries.         Merino:aes.         Fruits.         Ices.         &c. 


796  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

HISTORICAL    SWISS    MENU 

In  connection  with  tlie  celebrated  Fete  of  the  Abbaye 
des  Vignerons. 

GRAND    HOTEL    DE    VEVEY. 

25  Aout,  1889. 

MENU     DU     DINER 

offert  ^;«r    la    Confrerie    des    Vignerons. 

Hors-d'oeuvre  a  la  Pales. 

Potage  bisque  Hoqueton. 

Saumon,  sauce  d'Abbe. 

Pommes  de  Cannes  de  conseillers. 

Filet  de  boeuf,  garniture  de  grand-pretre. 

Chartreuse  de  perdreaux  en  vendangeuses. 

Aspic  de  foie  gras  de  Silene. 

Choux-fleurs  de  Ceres. 

Volailles  roties  embrochees  aux  hallebardes. 

Salade  en  Bacchanale. 

Bombes  glacees  de  la  troupe  de  I'hiver. 

Gateau  de  noce. 

Fruits  de  Bacchus. 

Dessert  au  diapason  normal. 

Fromage  d'Armaillis  k  la  Currat. 


MENU    OF    AN    AMERICAN    FISH     DINNER. 

POTAGES. 

Aux  huitres. 

Tortue  verte  (claire). 

Terrapine  (liee). 

POISSONS. 

King-fish  au  bleu,  sauce  Genevoise. 

Baked  shad-fi^h,  sauce  ravigote. 

Filets  de  halibut  aux  coquillages. 

Paupiettes  de  pompineau  a  la  Lafayette. 

Croustades  de  muscalonge  a  la  creme. 

Petites  bouchees  de  grenouilles  a  la  poulette. 

Sea-fish  d'Amerique  rotis. 

Galantine  de  black-fish  ^  la  gel§e. 

Crabes  mous  frits. 

Mayonnaise  de  homard. 

Queues  de  homard  au  gratin. 

Gombos  a  la  creme. 

Mais  au  beurre. 

Gelee  de  poisson  au  vin  de  Californie. 


MENUS   AND    THEIR    COMPILATION 


797 


CHRISTMAS    LUNCHEON". 

ALL  DISHES  COMPOSED  OF  PORK. 


ORDONNANCE  ET  MENU   D'UN    DEJEUNER 

DE    NOEL. 

Tout  en  Charcuteeie. 


MENU   DES  VINS. 

Arbois  sec. 

Chablis. 
Meursault. 

Montrachet. 
Chateau- Clarke. 

Me  doc. 
Ch^teau-Camiran. 

Gorton. 
Chambertin. 

Chateau-Leoville. 
Paj  arete. 

Lunel. 
Tokay  etV<=  Clicquot. 


MENU  DES  METS. 

hobs-d'ceuvees  feoids. 
Mortadelle.    Aries.     Lyon.    Foie  gras. 

hoes-d'ceuvres  chauds. 

Andouillettes  de  Clamecy  a  Mavoisine. 

Croquettes  Richelieu.    Boudin  de  Tonnerre. 

ENTREES. 

Croustade  de  cochon  au  Menu  de  Roi. 

Echinee  de  cochon,  sauce  poivrade. 

Pieds  de  cochon  ^  la  Perigueux. 

Aspic  de  jambon  aux  pistaches  (sur  socle). 

EOTS. 

Cochon  de  lait  farci  k  I'anglaise. 

Hure  a  la  gelee  (sur  socle). 

Laitues  en  salade  (aux  lardons  grilles). 

Coupe  du  milieu. 
Fine  champagne  (dit  trou  Normand). 
Sorbets  glaces  a  la  romaine. 

EXTEEMETS. 

Epinards  au  jus  de  pore  roti. 

Artichauts  a  la  Barigoule. 

Beignets  souffles. 

Pannequets  du  rocher  de  Cancale. 

GLACE. 

Jambon  sur  socle  a  la  gelee. 

DESSEET. 

Fruits.       Compotes.       Petits  fours. 


798  PBACTICAL   GASTRONOMY 


MENU  OF  THE  GIGANTIC  BANQUET 

Served  to  over  13,000  People,  in  the 
PALAIS    DE    L'INDUSTRIE,    PARIS,    IN    1889. 

MENU. 

Potage  Parisienne. 

Hors-d'oeuvres  varies. 

Tmites  saumonSes,  sauce  Frangaise. 

Filet  de  boeuf  k  la  gelee. 

Galantine  de  poulardes  truffee, 

Dindonneaux  rotis. 

Pate  de  caneton. 

Salade  russe. 

Petits  souffles  glacis. 

Babas  au  rhum. 

Gateaux  varies. 

Dessert, 

ViNS. 

Madera. 

Graves. 

Medoc. 

Pomard  (Bouchard  alne). 

Champagne  frappe. 

Cafe.     Liqueurs. 

The  Contractors  for  the  Dinner  were  Messrs.  Potel  &  Chabot, 

of  Paris. 


MENUS    AND    THEIR    COMPILATION  799 


MENU    OF    A    GAME    BANQUET. 

TREMONT  HOUSE, 
Chicago,    November    23,    1889, 

MENU. 
Blue  points. 

SOUP. 

Venison  a  la  chasseur.     Consomme  of  prairie  chicken. 

FISH. 

Baked  whitefish,   port   wine   sauce. 
Boiled  trout,  lobster  sauce. 

BOILED. 
Wild  turkey.     Leg  of  mountain  sheep. 

ROAST. 

Saddle  of  antelope.      Mountain  sheep.     Leg  of  venison. 

Pheasants.     Wild  goose.     Blue  grouse. 

Mallard  duck.     Quail. 

Prairie  chicken.     Red-head  duck.     Sage  hen. 

Wild  turkey.     Spotted  grouse. 

Jack  rabbit.  Black-tail  deer. 

Plover.     Canvas-back  duck. 

Black  bear.  Wood  duck. 

English  hare.    Blue-wing  teal.     Sand-hill  crane. 

Squirrel  opossum. 

Ruffled  grouse.     Coon.     Leg  of  elk. 

Partridges.         Brandt. 

Cinnamon  bear.     Widgeon.      Saddle  of  black-tail  deer. 

[P.T  o. 

51 


800  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 


ORNAMENTS. 

Hunter's  Surprise.       The  Coon  Hunt, 

BROILED. 

Blue-wing  teal.      Pheasants.      Jack  snipe. 

Quail.         Marsh  birds. 

Blackbirds.    Kabbit.     Plover.     Grey  squirrel.     Keed  birds. 

Venison  steak.    Partridge.     Butter-ball  duck. 

Kice  birds.  English  snipe. 

VEGETABLES. 

Boiled  and  mashed  potatoes.     Green  peas. 

Stewed  tomatoes. 

Sweet  potatoes.      Celery.      Sweet  corn.     Spinach. 

ENTREES. 

Kagout  of  squirrel.      Rabbit  braize,  sauce  Burgundy. 

Venison  cutlet,  jelly  sauce.        Fillets  of  grouse  truffled. 

Dressed  celery.         Prairie  chicken  salad. 

ORNAMENTAL  DISHES. 

Pyramid  of  quail  en  Bellevue. 

Pyramid  of  wild  goose  liver  in  jelly. 

Boned  duck  au  naturel.         Boned  quail  en  plumage. 

Blackbirds  at  play.         Prairie  chicken  en  socle. 

DESSERT. 

Confectionery.         Fancy  almond  cake.         Candy  pyramid. 

Wine  jelly.  Bonbons.  Lady  fingers. 

Apples.  Oranges.  Nuts.  Kaisins.  Figs. 

California  grapes.  Catawba  grapes.  Vanilla  ice  cream. 

Roman  punch.        Cheese.         Biscuits. 

COFFEE. 


MENUS    AND    THEIR   COMPILATION 


801 


MENU    OP    A    DINNER 

given  in  the  Imperial  Palace  at  Berlin,  in  honour  of 
H.R.H.  the  Prince  of  Wales. 


^^onigtic^e   2)ZittaggtafeL 

(Sd?ilbfrotens(Sii)?)3e. 

Olomifc^e  ^afteten. 

@teinButte. 

,R'aI6§rticfen  mit  2)?accarDni. 

^^ti^nerbrufte  mit  (Sbel^jiljen. 

0le^fc^nitten  mit  3^riiffeln. 

^^amburger  ®dnfe. 

B'riJd^te. 

@alat. 

(Sederie. 

Q(^rifo[en'^]}ubt>ing. 

«^afeftangen.      ©efroreneg. 

Snac^tifd). 


Royal  Dinner-table. 

Real  turtle  soup. 
Roman  patties. 
Turbot. 
Roast  veal  with  macaroni. 
Chicken  breasts  with  mush- 
rooms. 
Slices  of  venison  with  truffles. 
Hamburgh  geese. 
Fruits. 
Salad. 
Celery. 
Apricot  pudding. 
Cheese-straws.       Ice. 
Dessert. 


MENU    OF    A    BANQUET 

At  15  M.  (15s.)  per  head,  inclusive  of  Wines.    Served  at  Gorlitz. 


Russische  Vorspeisen. 

Suppe  nach  Konigin-A.rt. 

Zander  mit  Butter  und 

Kartoffeln. 

Hammelriicken  mit  griinen 

Erbsen. 

Hohl-Pastete  nach  Toulouser 

Art. 

Welsche  Habnen.     Salat. 

Eingemachte  Friichte. 

Gestiirztes  Eis  nachNesselrode. 

Kiise  und  Butter. 

Nachtisch. 


Russian  hors-d'oeuvres. 

Queen  soup. 

Pike  with  butter  and  potatoes. 

Saddle  of  mutton  with  green 

peas. 

Vol-au-vent  a  la  Toulouse. 

French  chicken.     Salad. 
Compote  of  fruit. 

Nesselrode  ice. 

Cheese  and  butter. 

Dessert. 


802 


PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 


ABSCHIEDS-DINER  DES  GRAFEN  BISMAEK. 

(FAREWELL  DINNER  OF  PRINCE  BISMARK.) 
Berlin  :  June  1890. 


©erojtete  5lufiern. 

3;ruffel  mit  frifc^er  ^Sutter. 

0lormannifcf)e  @ce;^unc\e. 

v^amBurger  O^auc^fleifi^. 

jRinberkuft.       9)Jeerrettig. 

Suuge  t^ul^ner  mit  <SpargeI* 

Stalienifd^e  !?angouf!e. 

Sunge  (Sc^ne)>fen. 
(S)3anifd^e  5Irtifd^ocfen. 

2Barme  O^ru^thic^en, 

©efroreneg  (Sa^nens@i6, 

Jlafeftangen. 


Grilled  oysters. 

Crawfish  soup. 

Truffles  with  butter. 

Norman  sole. 

Hamburg  smoked  beef. 

Breast  of  beef.      Horseradish. 

Chicken  with  asparagus 

points. 

Italian  lobsters. 

Young  snipe. 

Spanish  artichokes. 

Lapwing's    eggs. 

Hot  fruit  tart. 

Cream  ice. 
Cheese  souffle. 


A  BILL    OF    FARE   IN   SWEDISH. 

MATSEDEIi. 

Soppa  af  rhabarberpur§. 

Dansk  olsoppa. 

Polskt  aggol. 

Inlagd  al  med  mayonnaise  och  forlorade  agg. 

Stuvad  gos  med  persiljesSs. 

Stuvad  gadda. 

Eottpudding,  kokt  i  pappei 

Flaskkotletter  i  gelee 

Kalf  ragout  Marengo 

Potatis  i  graddsSs. 

Berliner  appelkaka. 

Vinkram. 


MENUS   AND    THEIR    COMPILATION 


803 


AN    ITALIAN    MENQ 

(Translated). 


LISTA  DEI  CIBI. 

Antipasto. 

Suppa  di  Ravioli  k  brodo. 

Rombo,  salsa  ollandese. 

Filletto  di  bue  alia  Napolitane. 

Pasticcio  di  fegato  d'oca. 

Sparagi  alia  Milanese. 

Tachino   al  crescione. 

Insalata. 

Gelato  di  lampone. 

Pasticceria  con  mandorle. 

Formaggio. 

Frutti. 


BILL  OF  FARE. 

Hors-d'oeuvre. 

Consomme  Ravioli. 

Turbot,  Hollandaise  sauce. 

Fillet   of    beef  Napolitaine. 

Goose  liver  pate. 

Asparagus,  Milanese  style. 

Young  turkey  with   cresses. 

Salad. 

Raspberry  ice. 

Almond  pastry. 

Cheese. 

Fruits. 


A  ROUMANIAN   MENU 


(TRA.NSLATED). 


Mezelicu. 

Icre  verte. 

Masline,  sardele. 

Supa  borsu  de  miel. 

Morun  la  gratar  cu  lamie. 

Scoic  cu  ored. 

Muschiu  la  frigar,  garnisitu. 

Guiu  cu  came. 

Gfisca  friptu  cu  salata. 

Cletite  cu  dulceta. 

Trojitura.     Struguri. 

Cafea. 


Hors-d'oeuvres. 

Green  caviare. 

Olives,  anchovies. 

Puree  of  lamb. 

Koast  sturgeon,  sliced  lemons. 

Mushrooms  with  rice. 

Roast  beef,  garnished. 

Fowl  with  beans. 

Roast  goose  and  salad. 

Peacock  cakes  with  fruits. 

Savoury  dish.     Grapes. 

Coffee. 


804 


PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 


A  MENU   IN   VOLAPUK. 


Tapioca-sup  modii  Crecy. 

Turbot  ko  klafilavaet. 

Jiipaloet   ko  foctavaet. 

Goks   modii  Vicomtesse. 

Makar  Milanik. 

Magabagoks  poloetol. 

Salade  flifik. 

Peilils  flifik. 

Losets  ko  vaet  modii  Dijon. 

Spargs  de  Spitzberg. 

Bostab. 


Cr6cy  and  tapioca  soup. 

Turbot,  shrimp  sauce. 

Mutton  and  venison  sauce. 

Chicken  a  la  Vicomtesse. 

Milanese  tim bales. 

Roast  guinea-fowl. 

Season  salad. 

New  peas. 

Lobster,  Dijon  sauce. 

Spitzberg  asparagus. 

Dessert. 


A  TURKISH   MENU. 


Tschebria  tschorbaschi. 

Orman  kababi. 
Nohut  hanissi. 

Puff  beurighi. 
Ternik  halwassi. 

Taprak  lani  dolmassi. 

Ellmassia. 

Assida. 

Gulatsch. 

Zerdsch  pillau. 

Khoschab. 


Mutton  broth  with  eggs  and 

vinegar. 

Lamb  roasted  whole. 

Fricasseed  chicken  with  walnut 

and  pepper  sauce. 

Cheese  souffle. 

Boiled  semolina  with  honey  and 

butter. 

Pickled  cabbage  and  gherkins. 

Baked  calves'  feet. 

Semolina  pie. 

Thick  cream  with  rosewater. 

Gold-pillau. 

Scented  water. 


MENUS   AND    THEIR   COMPILATION 


805 


A  JAPANESE   MENU. 


Misoschiru. 

Kuchitori. 

Hachimono. 

Choku. 

Wanmori. 

Sunomono. 

Konomono. 

Sashimi. 

Sushi, 


Miso-bean  Soup. 

A  kind  of  snail  pie. 

Fish  stew. 

Bean-vegetable. 

A  meat  soup. 

Cucumber  and  dried  fish. 

Corn-vegetable. 

Raw  fish. 

Kice  with  vinegar. 


TRANSLATED 


COPY  OF  A  CHINESE  BILL  OF  FARE. 

Bird's-nest  and  pigeon's-egg  soup. 

Fried  fish. 

Broiled  shark  fins. 

Baked  macaroni. 

Stewed  bamboo  shoots. 

Cold  chicken  with  stuffing. 

Stewed  water-chestnuts  and  mushrooms. 

Roast  wild  duck  with  salad. 

Chinese  cakes. 

Biscuit  with  vegetable  stuffing. 

Meat  pies.        Almond  tea. 


A  MENU   IN   LATIN. 

Jus  cancris  incoctis  conditum. 

Lumbuli  bubuli  subassati  addito  jure  vini  Materiani  ex  insulis 

fortunatis  necnon  globulis  ex  Solani  tuberibus. 

Vel  brassica  florens  vel  phaseolus  viridis  una  cum  perna 

linguisque  scissis. 

Anguilla  cocta  cum  jure  mixto  compositoque. 

Assum  ferinum.         Savilla  et  acetaria. 

Lactis  flos  glacialis  ad  modum  principis  Pueckleri. 

Butyrum  caseusque. 


806  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

HUMOROUS    MENUS. 


BILL  OF  FARE  IN  THE  FORM  OF  A  LAWYER'S  BRIEF. 

C.  E.  PARSONS  AND  CO.,  LIMITED. 

ARTICLES  OF  ASSOCIATION.- 

Incorporated  (into  our  sy.stems),  Aug.  13,  1889. 


Directors. 

The  Parson     ... 

The  Dean 

Soup    ... 

The  Card  Sharper     . 

The  Inspector 

Notary  Public 

..  1  share. 
..  1      „ 

6/8 1 

Slanders      1 

Vital  Spark I 

Biscuits       ...         ...   1 

Balls  (foot) 1 

share. 


ARTICLE    1. 

Canope  d'anchovies  aux  olives. 
Still  Ock. 


ARTICLE  II. 

Souj). 

Clear  turtle  a  la  mal  de  mer. 
Milk  punch. 

ARTICLE  III. 

Poisons  ! 

Red  mullet,  Italienne. 
Fillet  of  soles  a  la  President. 

DRY  SHERRY. 
(One  Button.) 

ARTICLE  IV. 

Entrees. 

Civet  of  leveret. 

Sweetbreads  a  la  Canadia. 

Lobster  patties  ^  la  Niagara  Falls 

CHAMPAGNE. 
Oh  1  we  are  enjoying  ourselves. 


ARTICLE  V. 

Rpvioves. 
Saddle  of  mutton  (Southdown). 

Gosling  a  la  5th  Avenue. 

Boiled  chickens  and  bakon  aux 

Yankee  Doodle. 

MORE  CHAMPAGNE. 

Vive  la  Bollingere. 

ARTICLE  VI. 

GRICE  !  !  ! 
Still  more  Phiz. 

ARTICLE  VII. 

Cheese  straws  a  la  Chicago. 
Gargles  various. 
(Button  No.  2.) 

ARTICLE    VIII. 

Sweets. 
Ice  Pudden. 

ARTICLE  IX. 

The  Dessert. 
PORT,  KRUSTED 

ARTICLE  X 

Toothpix. 

ARTICLE  XI. 

Poker.     Euchre. 
GET  ! 


Nap. 


MENUS    AND    THEIR    COMPILATION  807 


MENU    OF   THE    DINNER 

given  at  the  "Old  Cock  Tavern,"  London,  by  the 
Dr.  Johnson  Club. 

2)r.   5obn6on    Club  be, 

Satur^a^e,  I6tb  /iDarcb,  1889, 

atte  ?c 

"©Ifee  Cocft  Uavern," 

22    jFleete   Strcctc,  JB.Q. 

Btte  ^e  bour  of  Seven  of  ^e  Clocfe. 

^c  mile  ot  3fagre. 


"H  tavevn  cbafr  is  tbc  tbronc  of  buman  fcUcit>Q."— Johnson. 

13e  Xuscfous  /IDorselle  yclept  ^e  ©^gter. 

J3e  ©l&e  1Rump  Steafte  lpu^^mg,  witb 

^e  Xarfts,  Iki&ne^s,  ©igstevs,  ant  ^usbrooms. 

J2e  ilDarrow  ffiones, 

12e  Uastie  Hpple  ipic. 

18e  Uootbsome  Stewct)  Cbeese  an& 

^e  "CClelsb  IRarebit. 

|>uncbe.      Ooob  iFellowsbtp. 


808  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

A  LUNCHEON  AT  SHAKESPEARE'S  TOWN. 

At  Stratford-on-Avon  a  luncheon  was  held  in  the 
Town  Hall  on  October  17,  1887,  to  commemorate  the 
inauguration  of  the  Clock  Tower  presented  by  G.  W. 
Childs,  of  Philadelphia,  U.S. 

BILL  OF  FARE. 

"  Ladies,  a  general  welcome." — Henry  VIII.  i.  4. 
*'  Sit  down  and  feed,  and  welcome  to  our  table." 

As  Ton  Like  It,  ii.  8. 
"  Now  good  digestion  wait  on  appetite,  and  health  on  both." 

MachethyHi,  8. 

Clear  Turtle. 
*'  The  imperious  seas  breed  monsters  ;  for  the  dish." 

Puree  op  Hare.  Cymlelhw,  iv.  2. 

*'  Here  stand  we  both,  and  aim  we  at  the  best." 

III.  Henry  VI.  iii.  1. 
ENTKEES  (Hot). 
Galantines  of  Pigeons,  with  Mushrooms. 
Lamb  Cutlets  a  la  Princesse. 

BouDiNS  A  LA  Richelieu. 
Sweetbread  a  la  Santa  Cruz. 
"  Some  pigeons,  Davy,  .  .  .  and  any  little  tiny  kickshaws, 
tell  William  cook."— 77.  Henry  IV.  v.  1. 

VENISON  PASTIES  AND  HASHED  VENISON. 
"  Come,  we  have  hot  venison  pasty  to  dinner." — Merry  Wives,  i.  2. 
'<  Which  is  he  that  killed  the  deer  ?  .  .  .  | 

*'  Let's  present  him  to  the  duke  like  a  ^  J.s  Tou  Like  It,  iv.  2. 
Roman  conqueror."  J 

MAYONNAISE  OF  FISH. 
"  Epicurean  cooks  sharpen  with  cloyless  sauce  his  appetite." 

Antony  and  Cleojjatra,  ii.  1. 

RAISED  GAME  PIES. 
*'  Who  seeks  for  better  of  thee,  sauce  his  appetite." 

Timon  of  Athens,  iv.  3. 

ROAST  TURKEYS. 
"Why,  here  he  comes,  swelling  like  a  turkey  cock." 

DUCKS.  '^""•5'  ^-  '■•  '• 

"  0  dainty  duck." — Midsummer  JVighfs  Dream,  v.  7. 

GUINEA  FOWL. 
*'  Oh  what  should  this  cock  come  of  ?  "—As  You  Like  It,  ii.  7. 


MENUS    AND    THEIR   COMPILATION  809 

BOAR'S  HEAD  AND  BRAWN. 
"  Like  a  fuU-acorned  boar." — Cymheline,  ii.  5. 

ROAST  FOWLS. 
"  There  is  a  fowl  without  a  feather." — Coniedy  of  Errors,  iii.  1. 

GALANTINE  OF  TURKEY. 
"  'Tis  passing  good  ...  I  prithee  let  me  have  it." — Taming  of 
the  Shrew,  iv.  3. 

TONGUES. 

*'  Silence  is  only  commendable  in  a  neat's  tongue  dried." 

TT  A  TITO  Merchafit  of  Venice,  i.  1. 

HAMS.  -^  ' 

*'  I  have  a  gammon  of  bacon." — I.  Henry  IV.  ii.  1. 

PIGEON   PIES. 
"  Are  there  no  young  pigeons  ?  " — II.  Henry  IV.  v.  1. 

BRAISED  AND  ROAST  BEEF. 
"  What  say  you  to  a  piece  of  beef  and  mustard  ?  dish  that  I  do 
love  to  feed  upon." — Taming  of  the  Shrew,  iv.  5. 

ROULADE    OF   VEAL    AND    GALANTINES   OF 

CHICKEN. 

"  I  desire  you  more  acquaintance." — Midsummer  Nighfs 

Dream,  iii.  1. 

POTTED  LAMPERNS. 
"  From  the  banks  of  the  Wye,  and  sandy-bottomed  Severn." 

ASPIC  OF  EELS.       ^'  ^^^^i^  ^^-  "i-  1- 

"  Cry  to  it  as  the  Cockney  did  to  the  eels,  when  she  put  them  i' 
the  paste  alive." — King  Lear,  ii.  4. 

DRESSED  LOBSTERS. 

"  There  is  no  meat  like  them ;  I  could  wish  my  best  friend  at 

such  a  feast." — Timon  of  Alliens,  i.  2. 

SALADS. 
"  Salad  was  born  to  do  me  good." — II.  Henry  IV.  iv.  10. 

DRESSED  POTATOES. 
"  Let  the  sky  rain  potatoes." — Merry  Wives,  v.  4. 

ROLLS. 
" The  roll !  where's  the  roll  ?  "—7 J.  Henry  IV.  iii.  2. 

SWEETS. 
Dessert  Cakes.    Jellies  and  Creams.    Tourtes, 

Meringues  and  Charlottes. 

"  There's  half  a  dozen  sweets." — Love's  Labour  Lost,  v.  2. 

"  A  good  traveller  is  something  at  the  latter  end  of  a  dinner." 

AlVs  Well  that  Mids  Well,  ii.  4. 


810 


PRACTICAL    GASTRONO^ilT 


"  IVz/l  yon  dine  with  me? — Ay,  if  I  be  alive,  and  your  mind 
hold,  and  your  dinner  worth  the  eatingJ''' — Shakespeare. 


^rot)g6crc  of  all  f ()inges  for  p^  t)crp  bounfe- 
ous  rc|5asfe  I^ercin  px-epasre5,  b^  90o5Ig 
companpe  a55cmble5  vdxM  discourse  t^erc- 
itpon  in  p*^  mancrc  I)erem-aftcrc  scffc  fort^e, 
f 0  tt)itfc  :— 


(Lonrsc. 


33e  SOUPPE  made  from  y''  Oystere  ;    y«  strange 
bivalve,  whereof  it  hath  been  sayde,  at  divers 
tymes  by  some,  to  whistle,  occasioning  therebye  y= 
proverbe  quainte,  "There's  musicke  in  y^  Deepe." 


Qui 


60  e. 


|e    SouPE   prepayred  with   y^   Maccaroni  from 
y^  sunnie  landes  of  Italie  : 

Ye  Songes  'whereof  in  poesie  eupltonick 
Have  welle  beene  designated  Maccaroxick. 


f  ours£. 


3^e  flakye  fleche  of  y^  Codfishe,  nettyde  in  y« 
^  colde  Northe  Sea,  and  crympyed  in  y*  dain- 
tyest  fashyone  : 

Ye  SouNDES  of  which  by  many  too  are  praised. 

E'en  taken  in  withe  rapture,  when  on  Toaste  welle  raised. 


Qui 


doe, 


^e   delicate   and   highly   pryzed,  though    familiere 
"    Brityshe  fysshe,  y«  Smelte  : 

Fryed  withe  ye  Egge  ;  veiled  with  the  Buttere  Melte, 

Rare  is  ye  fragrance ;  ye  appetite  isfelte. 


MENUS   AND    THEIR   COMPILATION 


811 


m 


m 

Course. 


|e  verye  dayntylye  dressed  Cuttlettes  of  y« 
MuTTONE  from  y«  verye  choyceste  of  y"  fleecy 
flockes,  aftere  y«  true  style  of  y«  Italiane  masteres 
of  y*  culinarye  arte. 

IVithe  Sauce  of  tone  piquante,  staccato. 
Ye  Palate  wakens  withe  ye  choyce  Tomato. 


en 


voe, 


3^e  tendere  Larkes  snayred  expressly  for  y« 
*»  feaste  ;  offe  a  truthe  a  goodlye  disshe,  moste 
gustefulle,  and  much  esteemed  by  y«  higheste  in 
y*  lande. 

Once  their  gladde  note  ye  mind  and  eare  delighted, 
But  no%ve  by  cookes  KtiCAVSE-D  ye  a/ipetites  excyted ; 
No  viore  youre  silvery  tones  and  rapttiroiis  Jlighte  we  marke, 
We  see  thy  Jlesshe  beatified,  Oh  tendere  larke  ! 


3^e  moste  prime  joynte  of  Beeffe  roastyde;  a 
^  truly  Royalle  dysshe,  by  Kynge  knighted  ; 
served  withe  y^  famous  Sauce  offe  y«  succulente 
and  welle-flayvoured  Horseraydishe. 


en 


l^e  moste  excellente  and  favouryte  Saddle  offe 
^  PoRKE  Roastyde  withe  y«  Apple  Sauce  and 
y"=  severalle  muche  esteemed  enrichements 
tayning  thereunto. 

Ye  Crackling,  stich  perfectione  thought  amongst  ye  Chinese 
natione, 

A7id  onlye  to  perfection  brought  bye  a  Crackling  Confla- 
gration. 


apper- 


©f 
ge  scfacralU 

^dssIks 

i)£  |)ubiJing 


Aundrye    and     many    very     cunningly     com- 
POUNDYDE       PaSTYES,        both       BOYLED       and 
BAKYDE,    of  dyverse   riche  fruites  and  spyces  from 
y®  remoteste  fon7ne  partes  : 

Alle  FLUTYDE  a«rfcRESTYDEw/V/e^  Trifles  a«^/FLUMMERYE, 
Completes  ye  accounte  of  ye  Feaste  in  this  Summarye. 


UbUete  i\de  (X>\duc\de/ 

Lulled  with  the  virtues  offe  ye  fraygrante  weede^ 
Charmed  bye  ye  mttsicke  offe  ye  tunefulle  reede. 
Awake,  then,  the  soulle  !  ye  maisteres  offe  ye  Bowe^ 
Ope  c hordes  within  !  the  keye  so  welle  ye  knowe. 
Ye  Guestes  in  merrietnente  ye  eve  wille  passe. 
Withe  ye  joviale  chorus  and  fraternalle  glass e. 


812  PEACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

CALEDONIAN    HOTEL,    OBAN. 

SCOTCH    SUNDAY  DINNER    MENU. 

SOUPS. 

COCKIELEEKIE.  OXTAIL. 

"With  Soups  your  palates  first  you  may  regale — 
There's  honest  Cockieleekie  and  Oxtail. 

FISH. 

Keeeera  Salmon.  Fillets  of  Haddocks. 

Now  from  Loch  Linnhe,  and  that's  no  gammon, 
You've  fillets  of  Haddock  and  Kerrera  Salmon. 

ENTK^ES. 

Veal  Cutlets.  Scotch  Haggis. 

Then  if  your  appetite  inclined  to  lag  is, 

Please  stir  it  up  with  Cutlets  and  Scotch  Haggis. 

JOINTS. 

Roast  Beep  and  Lamb.       Boiled  Fowls  and  Ham. 

Seize  firm  your  forks,  your  work  is  now  no  sham, 
For  see  approach  prime  Roast  Beef  and  tender  Lamb. 
With  some  rare  bits,  too,  your  palates  you  may  cram, 
There's  well-boiled  Pullets  and  most  dainty  Ham. 

SWEETS. 

Cabinet  Pudding.  Rhubarb  and  Apple  Tarts. 

Compotes  of  Fruit.  Municipal  Meringues. 

Vanilla  Creams.  Jubilee  Jellies. 

Of  Sweets  there's  Cabinet  Pudding,  Tarts,  Compotes  of  Fruit, 
Municipal  Meringues,  Vanilla  Creams,  and  Jubilee  Jellies  to  boot. 

Cheese.  Dessert  a  la  Drummond. 

Then  pree  the  toothsome  Cheese,  but  do  not  say  "  By  gum,"  and 
As  the  grand  finale,  try  Dessert  ^  la  Drummond. 


MENUS    AND    THEIR   COMPILATION  813 

BILL  OF  FARE  OF  A  BEANFEAST  DINNER 
served  at  the  Albion  Hotel,  Blackpool. 

"  Sit  down  and  feed,  and  welcome  to  our  table," 

Roast  Sirloin  of  Beef — Yorkshire  Pudding. 

"  Long  may  each  Briton  of  beef  have  his  fill." 

•'  The  proof  of  the  pudding  is  the  eating  of  it." 

Fore  and  Hind  Quarter  of  Lamb. 

"  Wiirt  please  you  taste  of  what  is  here  ?  " 

Boiled  Mutton  and  Caper  Sauce, 

'•  Faith,  I  can  cut  a  caper,  and  mutton  to  it." 

Roast  Chickens  and  Boiled  Bacon. 

"  There  is  a  fowl  without  a  feather." 

'*  I  have  a  gammon  of  bacon." 

Spring  Cabbages,       Green  Peas. 

New  Potatoes. 

"  Let  the  sky  rain  potatoes," 

Dumplings,    Puddings.    Sweets. 

"  Better  have  some  of  a  pudding  than  none  of  a  pie." 

"  There's  half  a  dozen  sweets." 

CHEESE. 
Now,  good  digestion  wait  on  appetite,  and  health  on  both." 


BARRISTERS'    DEJEUNER, 
''AUDIENCE   GASTRONOMIQUE," 

Served  to  the  Members  of  the  French  Bar  at  Marseilles. 

fHuitres  des  plaid eurs. 
Hors-d'oeuvres  oratoires. 
Sole  4  la  procedure  Normande. 
Pates  de  gibier  truffes  d'arguments, 

(Filets  d'avocats  aux  coeurs  d'artichauts. 
Petits  pois  h  la  sauce  hermine. 
Becasses  de  clientele  roti. 
Salade  de  parquet  Russe  (sans  panier). 

Moet-     r  Toque  glacee. 

Chandon.  {  Dessert  d'eloquence  variee. 


814  PKACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

COMPLIMENTARY    MENU    OF  A    FAREWELL  DINNER 
TO  A  YOUNG  LADY  NAMED  LILIAN. 

The  following  complimentary  menu  to  a  young  lady 
named  Lilian  does  credit  to  its  author : — 
L   es  huitres  d'Ostende. 
I    talien  et  printanier  royal. 
L   ottes  4  la  Massillon. 
I    ndienne  de  riz  sur  croustades. 
A  iguillettes  de  canards  St.  Hubert. 
N  oisettes  de  pr6-sal6,  Lyon  d'Or. 

B  ombe  a  la  Eomaine. 

O  rtolans  et  perdreaux  sur  canapes. 

N  ouilles  en  timbales  a  la  Napolitaine. 

V  eloute  de  cardons  a  la  moelle. 
O  melette  soufflee  4  la  vanille. 

Y  okohama  glac6  au  Clicquot. 
A  bricots  et  fruits  confits. 

Gr  auffrettes  et  petits  fours. 

E   spalier  de  chasselas  Fontainebleau. 

Possibly  the  waiters  were  as  much  in  a  maze  about 
the  order  of  serving  such  a  feast  as  the  guests  were 
amazed  at  the  dehcacy  of  the  giver  thereof. — Hotel 
World. 


BICYCLE    CLUB    DINNER, 

PITTSBURGH. 

'^  Man  shall  not  live  by  bread  alone." — Matt.  iv.  4. 

(Entries  close  at  9  o'clock.     Open  to  all  members.     Start  from 

scratch.) 

OYSTEKS. 
Blue  points,  case-hardened.        Celery,  hollow  rims. 

SOUP. 

Consomm^,  A  B  C  of  bicycling. 

FISH. 

Salmon,  steamed,  Victor  backbone,  parsley  sauce. 

Potatoes  k  la  Julienne,  dust-proof. 


MENUS   AND    THEIR   COMPILATION  815 

ENTBEES. 

Quail  on  toast,  with  detachable  cranks 

Young  turkey,  with  cranberry  jelly  shrunk  on. 

VEGETABLES. 

French  peas,  balls  all  round. 
Potatoes  4  la  cream,  cow-horn. 

BELISHES. 

Queen  olives,  roller  bearings. 

Sweet  pickles,  Andrew's  head  with  long  centre. 

Chicken  salad,  swing  spring. 

DESSEBT. 

Bisque  ice  cream,  nickelled  and  enamelled. 

Lady  cake,  tandem  and  sociable. 

Champagne  jelly,  with  detachable  step. 

Florida  oranges,  buckled. 

Malaga  grapes,  long-distance  saddle. 

Banana,  with  compressed  tyre. 

Assorted  cake,  racer  and  light  roadster. 

French  coifee,  liquid  enamel. 

Eolls,  continual  coast. 

Tea,  tyre-heater. 
Bread,  sand-papered. 

LIQUOBS. 

Beverage,  k  la  Cincinnati,  with  extra  amount  of  rake. 
Sherry,  with  resultant  spokes.         Claret. 


DINER    MILITAIRE. 

Potage  ordre  disperse. 

Bouchees  formation  du  combat. 

Saumon,  sauce  melinite. 

Caneton  non,  ou  ne  can  passe  pas. 

Filet  de  boeuf  aux  eclats  d'obus. 

Poulets  petite  poste. 

Gigot  sentinelle  double. 

Salade  de  fascicules. 

A^erges  en  faisceaux. 

Ca  va  Pihin  et  meme  au  del4. 

Vivres  d'ordinaire  glaces. 

Gateaux  des  trois  armes. 

52 


816  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

HUMOROUS  BILL  OF  FARE  IN  THE  SWISS  DIALECT. 

SPISZEDEL. 

Vum  Esse  vo  de  Schwizerische  Juriste  em  achtezwanzigste 
Herbstmonet  1886,  also  em  Zistig  im  Scliwizerhof  am  Rhifall 
bi  Schafhuse  ghahand. 

"  Sag'  mer  wat  ischt, 
Und  i  will  der  sage  wert  bischt." 

En  unklari  Subbe,  agricht  dur  de  Choch  231  vum 

Obligation  ereclit. 

En,    trotz     em     Schwitzerisch-belgische     Handelsvertrag,     nit 

■usgfiiehrte  Meerfiscb,  mit  Emmen  Egger,  Chrebse,  und 

Herdopfel. 

E  Stiick  Yumene  grosse  Rind%deh  vum  Code  Napoleon 

gewahrleischt  et . 

Wildi  Vogel  mit  baitem  Brot  als  Volksspis  nocb  em  neuschte 

social-demokratiscbe  Rezept,  innere  scbwarze  Briieje. 

E   ganz  barmlose   Garteblueme  innere   liberale   Sohsse. 

Verschiimmleti  Giiggel  mit  Schmerzessaloth.    (Es  sind  Franzose 

und  cbonnet  sicb  drum  nid  uf  de  Artikel  55  vom 

Scbwizeriscbe  Oligationerecht  beriife.) 

E  Portion  chranks  Jgweid,  en  priicbtige  Ablick  fiir 

d'Mascbtburger. 

En  1884:  er  sxiesse  Revisionsdurenand  mit  galiler  Fosforsobsse. 

En  iibrig  bliebene  Mocke  vum  Rbitalgletscber,  de  Juriste  z'  Ebrc, 

i  de  Scbwitzerfarbe. 

Hemedaler  Cbas,  allerhand  Chromb  und  Scblackwahr, 

subr  und  siiess  Obst  und  no  meb  so  Schlussartikel. 

Scbwarze  Kaffi,  nid  us  tiitscbe  Eicbele,  mit  em  Gliisli  vum 

arme  Ma  ! 

Wi. 
En  rothe  Tiscbwi  ussem  LaufPemer  Scblossberg  "1  beidi  vum  Herr 
En  wisse  Tiscbwi  vom  Bobneberg  J  Weggeschtein. 

Nocbber  cbommet  no  zwei  besserie  Wie  : 
En  Jobannisberger,  er  ist  aber  a  der  Robne  und  nid  am  tiitscbe 

Rbi  gwacbse, 
und  en  Wi  vumene  franzosiscbe  Scbloss, 


MENUS    AND    THEIR   COMPILATION 


817 


ANCIENT    MENUS. 

Copy  of  a  curious  Menu  served  on  the  occasion  of 
Sir  Oliver  Wilkie's  election  as  Member  for  the  City 
in  1561. 

FIRST  COURSE.  s.     d. 

Calves'  feet  soup  at  the  upper  end 
At  the  bottom  of  the  table,  roast  rabbit  ... 
At  Sir  Oliver's  right  hand,  stewed  cockles 
Left  side,  poached  eggs,  with  hop  tops    ... 
To  the  right  of  Sir  Oliver,  fried  hasty  pudding 
Opposite  side,  broiled  mushrooms... 
Middle,  black-caps   ... 

SECOND  COURSE. 
Dish  of  fish  at  the  upper  end  (fried  sprats) 
At  the  bottom,  tripe  ragoo'd  in  its  own  liquor 
Next  to  Sir  Oliver's  right  hand,  rice  fritters 
Oi^posite,  eggs  a  la  mode     ... 
Ditto,  to  the  right,  oysters  on  shells 
Left  side,  radishes    ... 
Middle,  black-caps  as  above 
Butter  allowed  for  cooking,  |lb.     ... 
Salt  and  pepper 

Two  bottles  of  ginger  wine  drunk  at  and  after  dinner 
Toast  and  water 

Ordered  to  four  waiters  in  white  waistcoats        ...         ..^     0     1 
Bread  and  small  beer  what  you  please     ...         ...         ...     0     0 


0 

1 

0 

2 

0 

1 

0 

n 

0 

n 

0 

^ 

0 

^ 

0 

H 

0 

H. 

0 

^ 

0 

H 

0 

1 

0 

Of 

0 

0 

0 

1.4 

0 

Oi 

0 

^ 

0 

Of 

Translation  of  a  French  Menu  served  in  Paris  during 
the  Franco-German  War  in  1869. 

HORS-D'CEUVRES.— Radishes.  Herring  marine.  Onions  A, 
la  Proven(;ale.     Slightly  salt  butter.     Gherkins.     Olives. 

FIRST  COURSE.— Soup  of  slightly  salted  horse  with 
Vegetables.  Ass-flesh  cutlets  with  carrots.  Mule's  liver  saute 
aux  champignons.  Horse's  lights  with  white  sauce.  Carp  t\ 
la  matelotte.     Fried  gudgeons.     Celery-heads  with  seasoning. 

SECOND  COURSE.— Quarter  of  dog  braised.  Leg  of  dog 
roasted.  Rats  cooked  upon  the  ashes.  Rat  pie  with  mushrooms. 
Eel  d  la  broche.     Salad  of  celery  and  small  salad. 

DESSERT. — Dutch  cheese.  Apples.  Pears.  Marmalade  au 
kirsch.    Gateau  d'ltalie  au  fromage  de  Chester. 


818 


PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 


HOW  OUR  ANCESTORS  DINED  400  YEARS  AGO. 

Interesting  '*  Bill  "  of  Fare  of  a  dinner  given  in  Rich- 
mond, in  1506,  to  thirty-six  persons. 


£ 

s. 

d. 

£ 

s. 

d. 

36  Chickens 

0 

4 

5 

4  Breasts  of  Veal 

0 

1 

5 

1  Swan    ...         ...1 

0 

7 

0 

Bacon      

0 

0 

6 

4  Geese J 

Quarter  of  a  load 

9  Rabbits 

0 

1 

4 

of  Coals 

0 

0 

4 

2Rumps  Beef  Tails 

0 

0 

2 

Faggotts 

0 

0 

2 

6  Quails  ... 

0 

1 

6 

8  Gallons    and    ^ 

2  Ounces  of  Peper 

0 

0 

2 

Gascoyne  Wine 

0 

2 

4 

2  Ounces  of  Cloves 

1  Bottle  of  Mosca- 

and  Mace 

0 

0 

4 

vidine  ... 

0 

0 

8 

OOunce&^Safforn 

0 

0 

6 

Cherryes  &  Tarts 

0 

0 

8 

3  1b.  of  Sugar     ... 

0 

0 

8 

Salt          

0 

0 

1 

2  lb.  of  Raisens... 

0 

0 

4 

Verj  nice  &  Vinegar 

0 

0 

2 

1  lb.  of  Dates     ... 

0 

0 

4 

The  Cook  paid    . . . 

0 

8 

4 

1  lb.  &  i  Comfitts 

0 

0 

2 

Perfume  ... 

0 

0 

2 

^  a  Hundred  Eggs 

0 

0 

H 

1  Bushell  and  ^  of 

4  Gallons  of  Curd 

0 

0 

4 

Meal 

0 

0 

8 

1  Gallon  of  Goose- 

Water      

0 

0 

8 

berreys 

0 

0 

2 

Garnishing        the 

Bread       

0 

1 

0 

Vessels 

0 

0 

3 

1  Kilderkin  Ale  . . . 
Herbs    ... 

2  Dishes  of  Butter 

0 

2 

3 

0 
0 

1 

0 

0 

4 

£1 

13 

"h 

The  following  is  a  table  of  prices  of  the  provisions 
used  for  a  festive  meal  held  at  the  Ely  Palace,  Holborn, 
London,  in  1551.  Among  the  guests  were  King 
Henry  VIII.,  his  Queen,  the  Foreign  Ministers,  the 
Lord  Mayor,  &c. 


24  large  oxen    . . . 

100  sheep  at 

50  calves,  each  at 

.^4hogs,  each  at 

I  Ipigs,  each  at 
14  dozen  of  swans 
10  dozen  large  capons,  each  at 

J  dozen  Kentish  capons,  each  at      

19  dozen  common  capons,  each  at    ... 

7  dozen  and  9  gross  of  heath-cocks,  each  at 

14  dozen  of  common  cocks,  each  at ... 

Best  pullets  (no  number  mentioned),  each  at 

Common  ditto,  each  at 

37  dozen  pigeons,  per  dozen 

340  dozen  of  larks,  at  per  dozen       


£ 

s. 

a. 

1 

6 

8 

0 

2 

10 

0 

4 

8 

0 

3 

8 

0 

0 

6 

(a  present) 

0 

1 

8 

0 

1 

0 

0 

0 

6 

0 

0 

8 

0 

0 

3 

0 

0 

^ 

0 

0 

2 

0 

0 

10 

0 

0 

5 

MENUS    AND    THEIR   COMPILATION 


819 


A  Bill  of  Fare  in  plain  old  English  style. 

Ye  annuale  Whytebaite  Dinner  of  hyr  Majestye's  Ministers, 
on  Wednesdaie,  ye  14th  August,  1858,  alte  ye  Hostelrie  'yclept 
ye  "  Shippe,"  atte  Greenwiche.  This  Bille  of  ye  Fare  is  drawn 
in  playne  Englysh,  without  any  cloake  of  Frenche  or  other 
foreygne  tongue,  for  the  sadde  and  sobere  comforte  of  frendes, 
and  that  ye  maye  know  what  ye  are  asked  to  accept. 

Ye  Bille  of  ye  Fare. 

YE  SOUPE. — Soupe  made  from  ye  Turtle,  and  alsoe  Soupe 
made  from  ye  Greene  Fatte  of  ye  same. 

YE  FUSHE. — Ye  Flounders  caryously  cooked,  and  Salmonne 
servyd  inne  lyke  mannere.  Ryssoles  of  ye  Lobstere.  Ye  lyttel 
Soles,  fryed.  Ye  Pudynges  of  ye  Whyting.  Ye  Eles  skynned 
and  stewed  inne  ye  riche  wyne  of  Oporto.  Ye  Omelette  of 
Crabbe  inne  ye  style  as  servyd  to  ye  Guardes  of  ye  Blue  Scale. 
Ye  Troute  from  ye  River  Spey,  grylled  with  ye  sauce  of  Tartar. 
Salmonne  inne  collopes,  with  ye  sauce  inne  in  ye  Cyprus  fashonne. 
Ye  Whytebaite,  be-frizzled,  and  alsoe  be-devylled. 

FLESHE  AND  FOWLE.- Sweetbreades,  with  ye  Mush- 
roomes  added  thereunto.  Ye  Haunche  of  ye  Royale  Bucke,  with 
Haricotte  Beaues  servyd  therewith.  Ye  Antient  Hamme,  from 
ye  Citye  of  York,  grylled  inne  wyne  of  Champagne.  Ye  Grouse 
from  ye  Northe  Countree.     Hogge  Bacon  and  younge  Beanes. 

YE  SWEETES,  &c.— Apprycottes  flavoured  with  Noyau. 
Pudynges  iced,  after  ye  Nesselrode  mannere.  Lyttle  Cakes  made 
with  ye  Cheese  from  Parma,  inne  Italic.  Ye  Ices  flavoured  with 
Oranges  and  Strauberres. 

Divers  Fruytes  which  are  your  Desertes,  and  ye  Wynes  cf 
Champagne  and  manie  outlandysh  countrees. 

Ye  Dinner  will  be  servyd  after  ye  mannere  of  ye  Russian 
people. 

Ye  guestes  are  bydden  to  eate  after  ye  Hungarie  mannere. 

W.  T.  Bale,  Mastere. 


A  CURIOUS  BILL    OF  FARE   OF  1751, 

For  the  Study  of  English  Clerks  of  the  Kitchen, 
Cooks  and  Housewives. 


£   s. 

d. 

Bread  and  beer 

0     4 

6 

Potage  de  Tortue           

0  16 

0 

Calipash  ... 

1     1 

0 

Calipees 

0  16 

0 

Une  pate  de  Jambon  de  Bayone 

2  10 

0 

Potage  Julien  Verd       

1  12 

0 

820  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

2  Tinbots  to  remove  the  Soups  

Haunch  of  Venison 

Palaits  cle  Mouton         

Selle  de  Mouton  

Salade 

Saucisses  aux  Ecrevisses 

Petites  Pates  a  I'Espanol  

Coteletts  a  la  Cardinal 

Selle  d'Agneau  glace  aux  cocombres 

Saumon  a  la  Chambord  

Fillets  de  Sanies  Royales         

Une  bisque  de  lait  de  Magneraux       

Un  Lambert  aux  innocents 

Des  Perdrix,  sauce  vin  de  Champaign 

Poulets  a  la  Russienne 

Ris  de  Veau  en  Arlequin  ...         

Quee  d'agneau  a  la  Montaban 

Dix  Cailles  

Un  Lapreau 

UnPhesant 

Dix  ortolens 

Un  toarte  de  cerises 

Artichaux  a  ]a  proven  Salle 

Choufleurs  au  flour       

Cretes  de  Cocq  en  bonets         

Amorte  de  Jesuits 

Salade      

Chicken  ... 

Ice  Cream  and  fruits    ... 
Fruit  of  various  sorts,  forced  ... 
Fruit  from  market 

Butter  and  cheese  ...         

Claret 
Champaign 

Hock        

White  wine 

Burgundy 

Madeira 

Cape 

Sack 

Cyprus 

Neuilly 

Usquebaugh   

Spa  and  Bristol  waters ... 
Oranges  and  lemons     ... 
Coffee  and  tea    ... 
Lemonade 

Total 


£   s. 

d. 

2  0 

0 

2  12 

0 

0  6 

0 

0  6 

0 

0  4 

0 

0  18 

0 

1  10 

0 

0  16 

0 

0  18 

0 

1  11 

0 

1  10 

0 

1  15 

0 

1  10 

0 

1  10 

0 

0  10 

6 

0  18 

0 

0  10 

6 

2  2 

0 

0  10 

6 

0  12 

0 

7  4 

0 

1  1 

0 

0  16 

0 

0  16 

6 

0  10 

6 

0  12 

6 

0  4 

6 

0  2 

6 

5  5 

0 

16  16 

0 

2  10 

0 

0  2 

0 

1  10 

0 

7  10 

0 

0  12 

0 

0  2 

0 

0  6 

0 

0  1 

6 

2  0 

0 

0  1 

6 

0  3 

0 

0  10 

6 

0  10 

0 

0  6 

0 

0  5 

0 

0  10 

6 

0  16 

0 

£81  11 

6 

MENUS    AND   THEIR   COMPILATION  821 

MENU,   1657, 

S.  A.  Henri  II.  d'Orleans,  Due  de  Longueville,  • 
Prince  de  Neuchatel, 

HOTEL  DE  VILLE  A  NEUCHATEL, 

le  29  Juillet. 

Les  huitres.         Les  citrons. 

DEUX  POTAGES. 

Le  riz  k  la  puree  de  pois  verts. 
Le  potage  printanier. 

DEUX  HOBS-D'CRUVIIES. 

Les  rissoles  k  la  Eusse. 
Les  petits  vol-au-vent,  aux  huitres. 

UN  KELEVE. 

Les  beefsteaks  garnis  de  petites  pommes  de  terre  tourn6es. 

CIWO,  EJSTTREES. 

Le  salmi  cbaudfroid,  a  la  gelee. 

Les  boudins  a  la  Richelieu,  sauce  tomate. 

Le  turbot  garni  de  queues  d'ecrevisses,  a  la  Flamande. 

Les  sautes  de  filets  de  poulets,  au  supreme, 

garnis  d'un  ragout  k  la  Toulouse. 
Le  pate  chaud  de  legumes,  a  la  Bechamel. 

UN  PLAT  DE  HOTS. 

Les  Cailleteaux,  le  Dindonneau,  le  Veau. 
Deux  salades. 

QUATRE  ENTREMETS. 

Fromage  Bavarois,  aux  fraises. 

Beignets  a  I'Allemande,  aux  abricots. 

Blanc-manger  k  la  creme. 

Petits  souffles  au  cafe. 

Fruits  et  Dessert. 


822  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

GBAND     niNEB 

DANS  LES  SALONS 

du  Prince  Charles  de  Hohenlohe-Kirchberg, 

le  18  Mars  1771. 

POTAGES. 

a  la  Kussel.     aux  Marrons. 

aux  Vermicelles,  ^  la  puree  de  Racines. 

Croutes  au  pot,  gratinees. 

POTSSONS. 

Saumon,  sauce  Genoise. 

Carpe  du  Rhin,  ^  la  Chambord. 

BELEVES. 

Pieces  de  boeuf  en  surprise. 
Selle  de  chevreuil,  sauce  poivrade. 

ENTKEES. 

Poulardes  en  petit  deuil.       Blanquette  aux  truffes, 

Saute  de  perdreaux  fumes.  Pate  chaud,  a  la  Financiere. 

Vol  au  vent  de  turbot,  k  la  creme. 

Ris  de  veau  pique,  glace,  sauce  tomate. 

Filets  de  lapereau,  en  gibelote.       Cromesqui  a  la  Russe. 

Filets  d'agneau  piques,  glaces,  sauce  Espagnole. 

Petits  pates,  au  salpicon.     Ailerons  de  dindon  au  soleil. 

Chartreuse  de  tendrons  de  veau. 

Pieds  d'agneau,  ^  la  poulette. 

Pigeons  k  la  Voltaire,  sauce  Hollandaise. 

Sorbets  au  rhum.         Sorbets  au  Mrsch. 

GROSSES  PIECES   D'ENTREMETS. 

Gateau  monte.         Rocher. 
Carpe  au  bleu.  Buisson  d'ecrevisses. 

ROTS. 

Quartier  de  pre-sale.  Longe  de  veau  de  Pontoise. 

Becasses  aux  croutons.         Faisans  de  Boh^me. 

Salade  de  laitues.       Salade  de  chicoree. 

LEGUMES. 

Petits  pois  au  beurre. 

Asperges,  sauce  ^  la  Portugaise.     Choux-fleurs,  sauce  brune. 

Petites  feves  liees.    Concombres  k  la  maitre  d'hotel 

CEufs  poch^s  aux  truffes,  k  I'aspic. 

ENTREMETS. 

Petits  pots,  au  cafe  vierge. 

Gelee  de  marasquin.        Gelee  de  citron  renversee. 

Petits  pains  k  la  Duchesse. 

GLACES. 

k  I'Ananas.         aux  Framboises. 

Dessert. 


MENUS    AND    THEIR   COMPILATION  823 

MENU  OF  A  ROYAL  CITY  BANQUET 

SERVED  TO  H.M.  KING  GEORGE  Mi. 

London:  November  9,  1761. 

BILL     OF    FARE. 

King  and  Queen, 
Each  four  services  and  removes. 

First  Service. 
Consisting  of  turrenes,  fish,  venison,  etc.     Nine  dishes. 

Second  Service. 

A  fine  roast ;  ortolans,  quails,  knotts,  ruffs,  pea  chicks,  etc. 

Nine  dishes. 

Third  Service. 

Consisting  of  vegetable  and  made  dishes,  green  pease,  green 

morrells,  green  truffles,  cardoons,  etc. 

Eleven  dishes. 

Fourth  Service. 

Curious  ornaments  in  pastry,  jellies,  blomonges,  cakes,  etc. 

Nine  dishes. 

Eight  of  the  Koyal  Family. 

Four  on  the  right  hand  of  the  King  and  four  on  the  left. 
Each  four  services  before  them  as  follow  : — 

First  Service. 

Consisting  of  venison,  turtle,  soups,  fish  of  everj^  sort,  viz., 

Dorys,  mullets,  turbots,  bets,  tench,  soals,  etc. 

Seven  dishes. 

Second  Service. 
Ortolans,  teals,  quails,  ruffs,  snipes,  partridges,  pheasants,  etc. 

Seven  dishes. 

Third  Service. 

Vegetable  and  made  dishes,  green  pease,  artichoaks,  ducks 

tongues,  fat  livers,  etc.     Nine  dishes. 

Fourth  Service. 

Curious  ornaments  in  cakes,  both  savoury  and  sweet,  jellies  and 

blomonges  in  variety  of  shapes,  figures  and  colours. 

Nine  dishes. 


824  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

MENU,   1788, 
HOTEL  DE  VILLE  DE  PARIS. 

MARECHAL    DE    RICHELIEU 

le  5  Fourier. 

DEJEUNER. 
Une  tete  de  veau,  en  tortue. 

QUATKE  GROSSES  PIECES  PROIDES. 

Buisson  de  truffes,  au  vin  de  Champagne. 

Hure  de  sanglier.     Pate  de  Pithiviers. 

Des  huitres  fralches. 

HUIT  HORS  D'GESTJVRES  D'OFFICE. 

Quatre  de  figues  vertes.         Deux  de  beurre  d'anchois. 
Un  de  caviar  Kusse.        Un  de  radis. 

SIX  HORS  D'CEUVRE  DE  CUISINE. 

Pieds  de  pore,  a  la  Ste.  Menehould. 

Cotelettes  de  mouton,  en  crepinettes. 

Ailerons  de  dindons,  k  la  Marechal. 

Attereaux  de  filets  de  merlans. 

Paupiettes  de  palais  de  bcBuf .  Boudins  de  faisan. 

DIX   ENTREES. 

Saute  de  filets  mignons  de  boeuf,  aux  tomates. 

Carre  de  mouton,  en  f  ricandeau. 

Filets  de  perdreaux,  k  la  Zingara. 

Grives  au  genievre. 

Vol-au-vent  de  legumes. 

Saute  de  filets  de  volaille  supreme. 

Aspic  de  homards,  au  beurre  de  Montpellier. 

Kis  de  veau  glac§,  garni  de  choux  de  Bruxelles. 

DESSERT. 

Quatre  corbeilles  garnies  de  chasselas,  poires  et  grenades. 
Douze  tambours  garnis  de  petits  fours  assortis. 

DEUX  COMPOTES. 

Deux  de  poires.         Deux  de  verjus. 

Une  de  marrons.         Une  d'epine-vinette. 

Quatre  assiettes  de  fruits  confits. 

Douze  assiettes  de  fruits  glacis,  au  caramel. 


MENUS    AND    THEIR   COMPILATION  825 

MENU,   1803. 

32  DOVER  STREET,  LONDON:  Samedi,  16  Mars, 
SIR    H.    WILLIAMSON. 

POTAGES. 

k  rimperatrice. 
^  la  Puree  de  pois  verts.        ^  I'EsturgeoD  h,  la  Chinoise. 

POISSONS. 

Turbot  ^  la  Water.         Truites  k  la  Beaufort. 
Water-souchet  de  Limandes. 

HORS  D'CEUVRES. 
de  Niochi,  au  Parmesan,     de  White-Bait  frits. 

RELEVES. 

Jambon  aux  epinards. 
Poulardes  k  la  Chivry. 

FLANCS. 

Petite  pi^ce  de  Boeuf ,  k  I'Orleans. 

Selle  d'agneau,  k  la  Koyale. 

ENTREES. 

Boudins  de  homard  cardinal.       Kis  d'agneau,  a  la  Toulouse. 

Chartreuse  de  cailles.  Le  vol-au-vent  k  la  Nesle. 

Filets  de  canetons,  aux  petits  pois. 

Supreme  de  volaille,  asperges. 

Noisettes  de  veau,  k  la  Luynes. 

Cotelettes  de  mouton,  k  la  Dreux. 

SECOND  SERVICE. 

ROTS. 

Levrauts.  Oisillon. 

FLANCS. 
Spongada  Napolitaine.      Kamesquin  en  caisse. 

ENTREMETS. 
Pointes  d'asperges,  au  beurre  fondu.     Asperges  en  branches. 

Petits  pois  k  I'Anglaise.         Petits  pois  k  la  Franca ise. 

Aspic  de  homard,  sur  socle.         Aspic  en  Bellevue,  sur  socle. 

(Eufs  de  pluviers,  sur  socle.     Buisson  de  praion,  sur  socle. 

Gelee  k  la  Montmorency.         Gelee  Macedoine. 

Charlotte  d'ananas.        Bavaroise  au  chocolat. 

Croquembouches  k  la  Peine.         Gateau  de  millefeuilles 

Melon  en  nougat.         Bisquit  k  la  Florentine. 


826 


PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 


DEJEUNER    DE    NOOES, 

LUNDI,   2   JANVIEE,  1812. 

HANOVER   SQUARE,  LONDON. 
CAPTAIN   EMBLETON. 


Madeira. 


MENU. 

POTAGES. 

^  la  Eeine,  Clair  turtle,  Printanier. 


Sherry. 


ENTBEES. 

Cotelettes    cle  mouton,  k  la  Jardiniere. 

Saint  Emilion.        Petites  bouchees  a  la  Keine.         Saint  Julien. 

Galantine  decoree.         Jambon  decore. 

Langue  de  boeuf  a  la  gelee. 

Pates  de  faisans.  Pates  de  pigeons. 

ChamJ)ertin.  Poulets  rotis.  Hant  Santerne 

Mayonnaise      de     homards. 

Aspic  de  filets  de  soles. 

Salade  de  saison. 


ENTBEMETS. 

Charlottes  a  la  Parisienne. 

Champagne  frappe.        Gelee  Macedoine. 

Gelee  au  marasquin. 

Blancmanger. 

Gateau  de  Chantilly  monte. 

Gateau  de  Breton  monte. 

Gateau  Napolitain. 

Gateau  de  Savoie. 

Chateau  Margaux.        Creme  Bavaroise  au 

chocolat. 

Creme  religieuse,  au  cafe. 

Croquembouches  d'oranges. 

Nougat  monte. 

GLACES. 

Two  quart  vanille  cream. 

Two  quart  strawberry  cream. 

Two  quart  orange  water. 

Four  dozen  wafer. 

Six  dozen  rolls. 


Chahlis. 


Chateau  Ranzan. 


Cognac  et  Kirsch, 


Arrac  et  Rhum- 


MENUS    AND    THEIR    COMPILATION  827 

BANQUET 

OF  THE 

ROYAL  AGRICULTURAL  SOCIETY  OF  ENGLAND. 

London,  Novemher  9,  1822. 

MENU. 
POTAGES. 

Printanier  aux  quenelles. 
Bisque  d'^crevitsses. 

HORS    D'CEUVRES. 

Bouquet  de  crevettes. 
Anchois.     Olives. 

RELEVES. 

Truite  saumon^e,  sauce  Genevoise  et  Hollandaise. 

Filets  de  bceuf,  piques  k  la  Kichelieu. 

ENTREES. 

Petits  pates  k  la  Montglas. 

Cotelettes  d'agneau,  aux  pointes  d'asperges. 

Sorbets  au  rhum         Sorbets  au  kirsok. 

ROTS. 

Cailles  bardees.        Buisson  de  homards. 
Salade  Eomaine. 

ENTREMETS. 

Asperges  en  branches. 

Petits  pois  nouveaux,  4  I'Anglaise. 

Bavaroise  aux  fraises. 

Bombes  glacees,  k  I'orange. 

DESSERT. 

Corbeilles  de  fruits. 

Amandes.         Biscuits. 

Corbeilles  de  fleurs. 

VINS. 

Sherry  superieur. 

Chateau  Yquem.       Chateau  Margaux. 

Champagne  Clicquot,  frappe. 

Oporto  superieur. 


828  PEACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

MENU  OF  A  BALL  FOR  7,000  PERSONS. 

THIS  MENU  WAS  SERVED  AT  THE  PREFECT'S  HOUSE 

(^Prefecture  de  la  Seine) 

IN     PARIS,    IN     DECEMBER    1823. 

POTAGES. 

Pates  d'ltalie,  au  blond  de  veau.     Puree  de  pois  aux  croutons. 
Tapioca  a  la  vert-pre.  Kiz  au  lait  d'amandes. 

100  GROSSES  PIECES  CHAUDES. 

25  Turbots,  sauce  Hollandaise.  I  25  Saumons,  sauce  Genevoise, 
%5  Eoastbeef,  sauce  de  Madere.     25  Dlndes   truffees,   sauce  a  la 

!  Perigueux. 

200  ENTREES  CHAUDES. 

50  Cotelettes        de        mouton  j  50  Grenadins  de  filets  de  boeuf, 

sautees. 
50  Supremes   de    volaille,   aux 

truffes. 


sauce  de  Madere. 
50  Ballotines    de    volaille,  au 
riz. 


100  ROTIS. 

50  Faisans.  |  50  Poulardes. 

200  ENTREMETS  DE  LEGUMES. 

50  Asperges  en  branches,  sauce  I  50  Petits  pois  a  la  rran9aise. 

au  beurre. 
50  Artichauts  A,  la  Lyonnaise.        50  Haricots  verts, 

200  ENTREMETS  DE  DOUCEUR  CHAUDS. 

50  Gateaux    de    semouille,   au     50  Puddings  aux  diplomates. 

Malaga. 
5O  Pommes  Parisiennes.  50  Poires  au  riz. 

FJROIDS. 

120  GROSSES  PIECES. 


20  Galantine  sur  socle. 
20  Jambon  a  la  gelee. 

20  Buissons     d'^crevisses     sur 
socle. 


20  Buissons  de  truffes  sur  socle. 
20  Longes  de  veau  garnies  a  la 

gelee. 
20  Noix  de  boeuf  a  la  gelee,  sur 
socle. 


MENUS    AND    THEIR    COMPILATION 


829 


200  EMTTBEES  FROIDES. 


25  Pain  de  foie  gras,  k  la  gelee. 

25  Salades  de  homards,  sauce 

mayonnaise. 
25  Aspics   gamis   de  filets   de 

lapereaux. 
25  Salades  de  filets  de  soles,  en 

mayonnaise. 


25  Chaudfroids   de    perdreaux, 

bordures  de  gelee. 
25  Salade  Kusse   avec  bordure 

d'oeufs.     Laitues. 
25  Chaudfroids  de  poulets. 

25  Salades  de  volailles  en  bor- 
dure. 


200  ENTREMETS  DE  DOUCEUR. 


25  Gelees    d'oranges,     garnies 

d 'oranges. 
25  Macedoines    de    fruits,    au 

Champagne. 


25  Gelees  de  cerises,  garnies  de 

cerises. 
25  Gelees  d'eau  d'or,  garnies  de 

fraises. 


25  Bavaroises    de    chocolat  et  |  25  Pain       d'abricots,      decores 

vanille  en  rubans.  d'amandes. 

25  Pains      d'ananas,      decores  |  25  Blanc-manger  aux  pistaches. 

d'amandes.  I 


12  GROS  PATES    TRUFFES. 

4  de  Foie  gras.  |  4  de  Volaille.  | 


4  de  Gibier. 


16  PIECES  MONTEES. 


10  Grosses  brioches. 

10  Nougat  a  la  Parisienne  sur 

socle. 
10  Biscuits  de  Savoie. 


10  Gateaux  Napolitains. 
10  Baba. 

10  Croquembouches    Genoises 
sur  socle. 


120  ENTREMETS  DE  PATISSERIE. 


20  Genoises  de  pistaches. 
20  Tartelettes  de  porames. 
20  Manons  a  la  creme. 
100  Assiettes  de  sandwichs. 


I  20  Manques  au  petit  sucre. 

20  Condes  fourres. 
I  20  Mirlitons. 

100  Assiettes    de    pain,    ^     la 
1  Fran^aise. 


EXTRA. 
60  Salades  de  legumes,  servies  dans  des  saladiers. 


830  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

MENU  OF  A  DINNER  SERVED  TO  KING  CHARLES  X., 

AT    ST.    CLOUD, 

MENU. 
POTAGES. 

Eiz  k  puree  de  navets. 
Chiffonnade  de  croutons. 

KELEVES. 

Tete  de  veau  au  vin  de  Mad^re. 
Truite  k  la  polonaise. 

ENTKEES. 

Vol-au-vent  de  puree  de  perdrix  ^  I'Espagnole. 

Saute  de  filets  de  lapereau  aux  pois. 

Salmis  de  faisan  au  beurre  et  aux  truffes. 

Petits  pates  d'oeufs  4  la  creme  de  champignon. 

Ailes  de  poulet  h  la  mar6chale. 

Saute  de  filets  de  saumon  aux  croutons  k  la  Venitienne. 

Cailles  desossees  farcies  de  salpicon  ^  I'ecarlate,  k  la  gelee. 

Marbree  de  filets  de  poulardes  aux  olives. 

PLATS  DE  HOT. 

Perdreaux. 

Lapereaux, 

Poules  de  Caux. 

Levrault. 

ENTREMETS. 

Navets  glaces. 

Concombre  au  blanc. 

Artichauts  k  I'estouffade. 

Creme  au  marasquin. 

Gelee  d'oranges. 

Petits  pois. 

Haricots  verts  a  I'anglaise. 

Beignets  d'abricots. 

MOYENS. 

Bouchees  de  feuilletaga 

Sultan  e. 

Nougat  d'abricots. 

Meringues. 


MENUS    AND   THEIR   COMPILATION  831 

ROYAL  ALBERT  HOTEL,  DUBLIN, 

March  28,  1831. 

Lieut.-General    Sir  John  Shute,  C.B. 

MENU. 

FIRST    COUBSE. 

Giblet  and  clear  Spring  soups. 

Flounder  suche.         Spitched  eels. 

Stewed  eels.         Fried  flounders. 

Filets  de  truites,  k  la  Genevoise, 

Filets  de  soles,  4  la  maitre  d'hotel. 

Salmon.         Turbot. 

Whitebait. 

Croquettes  de  homards. 

Ris  de  veau,  a  la  puree  de  pois. 

Filets  de  chevreuil,  sauce  poivrade. 

Quenelles  de  volaille  aux  champignons. 

Chickens  4  la  Macedoine. 

Noix  de  veau,  sauce  tomates. 

Pigeon  pie.         Roast  chickens. 

Ham.     Bacon.     Beans.     Chine  of  mouton. 

SECOND    COUJRSE, 

Ducklings,     Leverets.     Goslings. 

Petits  pois  4  la  Frangaise.  IMaj^onnaise  de  homards. 

Souffle  pudding. 

Gelee  4  la  Macedoine. 

Bavaroise  aux  fraises. 

Creme  £\  I'ltalienne.        Gelee  au  vin. 

Compote  de  fruits  au  riz. 

Gateau  4  la  Napolitaine. 

Meringue  4  la  creme. 

Trifle  Pastry. 

Iced  Pudding. 


53 


832  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

MENU    OF   THE    DINNER 

GIVEN   BY   THE 

CORPORATIOH  OF  LONDON  TO  THE  EMPEROR  NAPOLEON  IIL 

April    19,    1855, 

POTAGES. 

Potage  de  tortue  clair. 

Bisque  d'ecrevisses. 

Potage  de  uids  d'oiseaux  cliinois. 

Consomme  de  volaille. 

ENTREES  CHAUDES. 

Cailles  aiix  fines  herbes. 

Cotelettes  d'agneau  anx  haricots  verts. 

Kuffs  en  caisses. 

Petites  bouchees  ^  la  Peine. 

ENTREES  FROIDES. 

Filets  de  truites  4  la  Ravigote. 

Foies  gras  de  Strasbourg. 
Gateau  de  ptarmigan  aux  truffes. 

Chaudfroid  de  becassines. 
Mayonnaise  de  turbot  aux  laitues. 
Blanquettes  des  volailles  a  la  gelee. 

GROSSES  PIECES. 

Paonneaux  k  I'lmperatrice. 
Hure  de  sanglier  h,  la  Bohemieune. 

Gros  saumon  k  la  Royale. 

Dinde  en  galantine  k  la  Parisienne. 

Cocbon  de  lait  k  la  Napolitaine. 

Jambon  de  Salisbury  au  vin  de  Mad^re. 

Baron  of  beef. 

ENTREMETS. 
Buisson  de  truffes  de  Perigord.    Buisson  d'oeufs  des  pluviers. 
Petits  pois  au  naturel.  Asperges  en  branches. 

Gelee  aux  f raises.  Cr^me  k  la  vanille. 

Patisserie.  Compote  d'ananas. 

Bu6doise  d'abricots.  Brioche  a  la  Saxonese. 

Baba  k  la  Polonaise. 

BUFFET. 

Roast  chickens.  Roast  beef. 

Roast  lamb.  Roast  capons. 


THE  DEFEAT  OF  COFFEE  833 


COFFEE. 


How  many  writers  have  vaunted  the  good  effects  of  coffee  I 
Heroes,  statesmen,  and  philosophers  have  bowed  over  their  fili- 
gree cups ;  and  Frederick  of  Prussia,  Napoleon,  Talleyrand,  and 
Metternich  have  all  acknowledged  and  felt  the  inspiration  of  the 
fragrant  berry. 

There  are  various  methods  of  preparing  the  infusion.  The  best 
coffee  in  the  world  is  probably  made  in  Paris ;  though  the  very 
finest  qualities  of  coffee  come  to  the  London  market.  The  usual 
method  of  making  the  beverage  in  France  is  a  la  Duheloy,  which 
consists  in  pouring  boiling  water  on  coffee  placed  in  a  porcelain 
or  silver  vase,  colandered  or  pierced  with  very  small  holes.  The 
first  decoction  is  poured  off,  heated  to  boiling  heat,  and  passed 
again  through  the  coffee-pot,  when  a  clear  and  exquisite  coffee  is 
produced.  Not  more  than  a  full-sized  tablespoonful  of  coffee 
should  be  allowed  for  each  guest  in  making  a  small  cup  of  coffee 
for  after  dinner. 

Here  is  a  recipe  of  Dr.  Koques's  for  a  cafe  a  la  creme  frapjye 
a  la  glace.  It  is  a  delicious  breakfast  beverage  during  the  summer 
heats.  Make  a  strong  infusion  of  Mocha,  or  Bourbon  coffee ;  put 
it  in  a  porcelain  bowl,  sugar  it  properly,  and  add  to  it  an  equal 
portion  of  boiled  milk  or  one-third  the  quantity  of  rich  cream. 
Surround  the  bowl  with  powdered  ice.  Coffee,  it  may  be  added, 
should  be  hot,  clear,  and  strong,  and,  like  every  other  good  thing, 
should  be  taken  in  moderation. 


THE    DEFEAT    OF    COFFEE. 

"The   imports   of  coffee  are  steadily  declining  in  favour  of 
tea." — Daily  Paj^er. 

Alas,  for  Mocha  !  well  it  may 

Look  piteous  and  pout. 
For  Tea  is  more  than  ever  in, 

And  Coffee's  going  out. 

"  Boheajavi  satis  !"  Coffee  cries 

"  'Tis  clear  you  will  wrong  go ; 
You  do  not  let  your  victims  sleep, 

No  more  does  Mr.  Congo." 

Said  Congo,  "  Coffee,  you're  a  fool, 

Your  ruin's  past  postponing; 
You've  had  your  day,  'tis  over  now, 

'Tis  you  that  should  be  moaning  "  {Moning). 


834  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

NOTES  ON  LAYING  A  TABLE 

IN 

THE    ENGLISH    STYLE. 

The  manner  of  laying  a  table  is  nearly  the  same  in  all  parts 
of  the  United  Kingdom.  A  centre  ornament,  whether  it  be 
a  plateau,  an  epergne,  or  a  candelabrum,  is  found  very 
convenient  and  contributes  so  much  to  the  good  appearance  of 
the  table  that  a  dinner  is  seldom  or  never  set  out  without  some- 
thing of  the  kind.  A  very  false  taste  is,  however,  often  shown 
in  centre  ornaments.  Strange,  ill-assorted  nosegays  and  bouquets 
of  artificial  flowers  begin  to  droop  or  look  faded  among  hot 
steams.  Ornamental  articles  of  family  plate,  carved,  chased,  or 
merely  plain,  can  never  be  out  of  place,  however  old-fashioned. 
In  desserts,  richly-cut  glass  is  ornamental,  and  the  foliage  and 
moss,  in  which  the  fruits  are  sometimes  embedded,  have  a  good 
effect.  Fine  white  damask  and  a  green  cloth  underneath 
are  indispensable. 

Whether  the  dinner  be  of  two  or  three  courses,  it  is  managed 
nearly  in  the  same  way.  Two  dishes  of  fish,  dressed  in  different 
ways  if  suitable,  should  occupy  top  and  bottom ;  and  two  soups, 
a  white  and  a  brown,  or  a  mild  and  a  high  seasoned,  are  best 
disposed  on  each  side  of  the  centrepiece;  the  fish  sauces  are 
placed  between  the  centrepiece  and  the  dish  of  fish  to  which 
each  is  appropriate ;  and  this,  with  the  decanted  wines  drunk 
during  dinner,  forms  the  first  course. 

The  second  course  at  a  purely  English  dinner,  when  there  are 
three  courses,  consists  of  roasts  and  stews  for  the  top  and 
bottom  ;  turkey  and  fowls  or  fricandeaux,  or  ham  garnished,  or 
tongue  for  the  sides,  with  small  made  dishes  for  the  corners 
served  in  covered  dishes. 

The  third  course  consists  of  game,  confectionery,  the  more 
delicate  vegetables  dressed  in  the  French  way ;  puddings, 
creams,  jellies,  &c. 

Caraffes,  with  the  tumblers  belonging  to,  and  placed  over 
them,  are  laid  at  proper  intervals  ;  where  hock,  champagne,  &c., 
&c.,  are  served,  they  are  handed  round  between  the  courses. 
When  the  third  course  is  cleared  away,  cheese,  butter,  a  fresh 
salad,  or  sliced  cucumber,  are  usually  handed  round  ;  the  finger- 
glasses  precede  the  dessert. 

The  dessert  at  an  English  table  may  consist  merely  of  two 
dishes  of  fine  fruit  at  top  and  bottom.  Liqueurs  are  handed 
round  at  this  stage,  and  the  wines  usually  drunk  after  dinner 
are  placed,  decanted,  on  the  table  along  with  the  dessert. 


NOTES    ON    CARVING  835 

NOTES    ON    CARVING. 

Nothing  is  more  prejudicial  than  bad  carving.  A  joint,  ill- 
carved  at  first  by  one,  is  alvv^ays  disregarded  by  the  other 
members;  and  frequently  from  this  circumstance  a  joint  of  great 
weight  and  price  is  no  longer  presentable,  and  is  left,  to  the  loss 
of  the  establishment.  In  serving  soup,  one  ladleful  to  each  plate 
is  sufficient.  A  steel  knife  applied  to  fish  is  likely  to  spoil  the 
delicacy  of  its  flavour ;  so  that  it  should  be  helped  with  a  silver 
slice  or  trowel,  and  be  eaten  with  a  silver  knife  and  fork.  Do 
not  pour  sauce  over  meat  or  vegetables,  but  a  little  on  one  side. 
In  helping  at  table,  never  employ  a  knife  where  you  can  use  a 
spoon. 

The  fairest  mode  of  cutting  a  ham,  so  as  to  serve  fat  and  lean 
evenly,  is  to  begin  at  a  hole  in  tlie  centre  of  the  thickest  part, 
and  cut  from  it  thin  circular  slices ;  by  this  means  also  the 
moisture  and  flavour  of  the  ham  are  best  preserved. 

The  upper  part  of  a  roast  sirloin  of  beef  should  be  carved  at 
the  end,  and  never  cut  in  the  middle,  unless  you  wish  to  destroy 
the  joint  in  revenge. 

Be  careful  always  to  cut  down  straight  to  the  bone,  by  which 
method  you  never  spoil  the  joint,  and  help  many  persons  with 
little  meat ;  what  remains  looks  well,  and  is  good  to  eat. 

In  carving  a  leg  of  mutton,  slice  it  lightly,  else,  if  you  press 
too  heavily,  the  knife  will  not  cut,  you  will  squeeze  out  all  the 
gravy,  and  serve  your  guests  with  dry  meat. 

Eustache  Ude  considers  a  saddle  of  mutton  is  usually  carved 
contrary  to  taste  and  judgment.  "  To  have  the  meat  in  the 
grain,  pass  your  knife  straight  to  one  side  of  the  chine,  as  close 
as  possible  to  the  bone  ;  then  turn  the  knife  straight  from  you, 
and  cut  the  first  slice  out,  and  cut  slices  lean  and  fat.  By 
disengaging  the  slices  from  the  bone  in  this  manner,  it  will 
have  a  better  appearance,  and  you  will  be  able  to  assist  more 
guests." 

If  you  begin  to  carve  a  joint  in  the  middle,  the  gravy  will 
run  out  on  both  sides,  and  the  meat  shrink  and  become  dry,  and 
be  no  more  presentable 

Never  pour  gravy  over  white  meat,  as  the  latter  should  retain 
its  colour. 

Of  roasted  fowl,  the  breast  is  the  best  part ;  in  boiled  fowl, 
the  leg  is  preferable. 

The  shoulder  of  a  rabbit  is  very  delicate ;  and  the  brain  is  a 
tit-bit  for  a  lady. 

In  helping  roast  pheasant  or  fowl,  add  some  of  the  cresses 
with  which  it  is  garnished. 

The  most  elegant  mode  of  helping  hare  is  in  fillets,  so  as  not 
to  give  a  bone,  which  would  be  a  breach  of  good  manners. 


836  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

Before  cutting  tip  a  wild  duck,  slice  the  breast,  and  ponr  over 
the  gashes  a  few  spoonfuls  of  sauce,  composed  of  port  wine  or 
claret  (warmed),  lemon-juice,  salt,  and  cayenne  pepper. 

The  most  delicate  parts  of  a  calf's  head  are  the  bits  under 
the  ears,  next  the  eyes,  and  the  side  next  the  cheek. 

If  cray-fish  be  added  to  a  fricasseed  chicken  (as  in  France), 
one  of  the  fish  should  be  placed  on  the  top,  in  dishing,  and  served 
to  the  first  guest. 


TRANSLATING    THE     MENU. 

Erastus  Gurley,  a  noted  wag,  one  day  dropped  into  a  cafe  for 
dinner.  The  obsequious  waiter  bad  just  flicked  a  bit  of  lint 
from  his  customer's  coat  collar  when  Mr.  Gurley  opened  out  on 
him. 

"  Yes,"  he  said,  glancing  at  the  menu,  "  you  may  bring  me 
some  eggs  blushing  like  Aurora." 

"Beg  pardon,  sir,"  explamed  the  waiter,  "it's  not  on  the 
bill." 

"  Isn't,  eh  ?     What's  this,  ceufs  a  Vaurore  ?  " 

"  Oh,  yes,"  replied  the  young  man,  blushing  and  shifting 
somewhat  uneasily. 

"  And  I  feel  like  having  some  breeches  in  the  royal  fashion, 
with  velvet  sauce." 

The  waiter  turned  red,  white,  and  blue. 

"  Got  you  again,"  chuckled  Mr.  Gurley.  "  Well,  I  suppose 
you  call  it  culottes  a  la  royale,  sauce  veUnite.^^ 

'*  Oh,  that  I  Yes,  sir  ;  yes,  sir ;  "  and  the  waiter  briskly 
rattled  the  cutlery  around  the  plate  as  though  he  would  fain 
drown  Mr.  Gurley's  voice. 

"  Be  sure  you  bring  a  stew  of  good  Christians." 

*'  Now  you  are  joking,"  mildly  expostulated  the  waiter,  with  a 
sickly  smile. 

"  Not  a  bit  of  it,  man.  See  here  on  your  bill.  Compote  de 
bons  Chretiens" 

"  O — ah — ugh,"  gulped  the  waiter. 

"  And  a  mouthful  of  ladies." 

"  Eh  ? " 

"  BoucMe  de  dames — quick,  help — a  glass  of  water — dash  it  in 
his  face  ! " 

But  Mr.  Gurley  was  too  late.  The  waiter  was  in  a  dead 
swoon,  from  which  he  never  recovered  until  later  in  the 
afternoon. 


WINES  837 


WINES. 

ORDER    OF    THE    SERVING    OF    WINES. 

L'ordre  des  boissons  est  des  plus  temper^es  aux  plus  fumeuses  et  aux  plus 
parfumees. — BriUat-Savnrin. 

Mild  wines  the  first ;  the  heady  should  come  late ! 

JVith  Hors-d'oeuvres  and  Soups. 

Sherry,  Madeira,  or  Marsala. 

With  Oysters  and  Fish. 

Chablis,  Graves,  Sauterne,  Still  Hocks,  or  Moselles. 

With  Removes  and  Entrees. 

Burgundies  or  Bordeaux  :  such  as  Gorton,  Clos-Vougeot, 
Romanee,  Pomard,  &c. ;  St.  Julien,  Bordeaux  vieux,  Leoville, 
Lafitte,  &c. 

With  the  Second  Course,  Roasts,  Dressed  Vegetahles,  and  Savoury 

Entremets. 

Sparkling  Champagne,  Sillery,  or  Moselle. 

With  the  Sweet  Entremets. 
Higher  brands  of  Champagne. 

With  Dessert  and  Fruit. 

Sweet  wines,  such  as  Malaga,  Frontignon,  Muscat,  Alicante, 
Malmsey,  Tokay,  Oporto,  &c. 


838  PRACTICAL   GASTRONOMY 

NOTES  ON  WINES  FOR  THE  TABLE. 

The  wine  required  for  dinner  should  be  on  table  before  dinner 
is  served,  to  be  agreeably  presented  to  the  consumer,  and  should 
be  of  the  canonical  temperature,  it  being  generally  conceded  that 
red  wines  should  be  warm  as  compared  with  white  wines,  which 
should  be  cooler,  and,  as  some  prefer,  even  iced  or  refreshed  on 
the  ice  before  being  drunk.  To  arrange  this  properly  obviously 
necessitates  a  little  time.  Most  wines  are  considerably  improved 
by  being  decanted  or  jugged.  It  is  calculated  that  the  ordinary 
wine-drinker  wastes  about  one-third  of  the  value  of  his  wine, 
and  sacrifices  a  considerable  proportion  of  his  enjoyment  thereof, 
by  allowing  it  to  be  served  "  in  the  black  bottle."  Not  only  has 
wine,  and  especially  old  wine,  no  chance  of  developing  or  expan  ^ 
ding  those  ethers,  flavours,  and  bouquets,  which  are  in  truth  the 
enjoyable  characteristics  of  good  liquor ;  but,  by  continually 
"  sloshing  "  the  bottle  up  and  down  as  each  glass  is  filled,  the 
consumer  unavoidably  disturbs  the  sediment,  of  which  the 
connoisseur  is  naturally  most  desirous  to  get  rid,  seeing  that  it  is 
a  deposit  induced  by  an  incipient  fermentation  to  which  all  pure 
wines  are  liable,  whatever  their  cost  or  character  may  happen 
to  be.  In  point  of  fact,  the  higher  class  wines  are  probably 
those  that  require  the  most  careful  handling  of  a  skilful  butler 
or  wine-steward. 

Among  wines  it  is  usual  to  place  those  of  France  first,  and 
Champagne  first  among  the  wines  of  France.  It  was  in  the 
neighbourhood  of  Epernay  that  the  first  sparkling  wine  was 
made.  The  process  of  manufacture  has  not  changed  much  since 
the  beginning.  Both  red  and  white  grapes  are  grown  in  the 
Marne.  The  red  gives  a  drier  wine,  the  white  a  softer  one  ;  and 
the  two  are  generally  mixed  together,  so  as  to  make  a  satisfactory 
average.  Great  care  has  to  be  exercised  in  gathering  the  red 
grapes,  and  much  swiftness  used  in  pressing  them,  so  that  none 
of  the  colouring  matter  contained  in  the  skin  be  communicated 
to  the  juice.  In  hot  years,  like  1874,  the  grapes  are  so  ripe  that 
they  easily  burst  when  they  are  gathered,  and  during  the 
pressing  some  of  the  pigments  of  colour  from  the  skin  commu- 
nicate that  light  pink  hue  which  distinguishes  vintages  like 
1874  ;  but,  on  the  other  hand,  hot  seasons  usually  give  an 
exceptional  wine.  Immediately  after  pressing,  the  juice  is  stored 
in  casks  and  directly  undergoes  the  first  stage  of  fermentation, 
after  which  it  is  racked  so  as  to  be  freed  from  the  heavier  lees. 
The  area  that  can  be  planted  as  vineyards  in  the  Champagne 
district  is  rather  limited,  and  as  the  demand  has  gone  on  increa- 
sing at  a  very  rapid  rate,  prices  have  been  forced  up,  and  other 
districts  of  France  have  tried  their  hand  at  making  sparkling 
wine.  Thus  we  have  seen  sparkling  Burgixndy,  sparkling  Chablis, 
sparkling  Saumur — all  excellent  wines  for  the  prices  they  are 
sold  at. 


LIST    OF   WINES 


839 


LIST  OF  BEST  KNOWN  BRANDS  OF  WINES. 

CHAMPAGNE. 


Ackerman-Laurance. 
Ayala  et  Cie, 
Binnet  et  Cie. 
Bollinger  Cabinet, 
Bouvier  fr^res  (Swiss). 
Clicquot,  Eugene. 
Clicquot,  Veuve. 
Dagonet. 
Delbeck  et  Cie. 
Deutz  et  Geldermann. 
Due  de  Montebello. 
Duclerc,  Carte  Noire. 
Ehrmann  freres. 
Fleur  de  Sillery. 
Garnier  (De)  et  Cie.* 
Giesler  et  Cie. 
Goulet,  Geo.,  Sillery. 
Hau  et  Cie. 
Heidsieck  et  Cie. 
Holden  (de  Lossy). 
Irroy,  Ernest. 
Jockey  Club. 
Koch  fils. 

Lanson,  pere  et  fils. 
Lecourt  &  Co. 


Mauler,  Louis  (Swiss). 
Melnotte  et  fils. 
Mercier  et  Cie. 
Moet  et  Chandon. 
Mumm,  G.  H.  et  Cie. 
Mumm,  Jules  et  Cie. 
Paschoud  freres  et  Cie. (Swiss). 
Perinet  et  fils. 
Perrier  Jouet  et  Cie. 
Piper,  H.  et  Cie. 
Pommery  et  Greno. 
Roederer,  Louis. 
Roederer,  Theophile,  et  Cie. 
Roger,  Paul. 
Roper  freres  et  Cie. 
Ruinard,  pere  et  fils. 
Seligmann  et  Cie. 
Sillery  mousseux. 
St.  Hermitage  mousseux. 
St.  Marceaux  et  Cie. 
Strub,  F.  et  Cie.  (Swiss). 
Van  der  Vecken. 
Verdelot  et  Cie. 
Wachter  et  Cie. 


CLARETS— BORDEAUX. 

The  name  of  Claret  is  practically  given  to  all  red  wine  coming 
from  France,  with  the  exception  of  Burgundy  and  Roussillon, 
which  form  small  classes  apart.  The  best  clarets  are  those 
grown  in  the  Gironde,  but  there  are  many  other  departments 
which  furnish  claret  to  Bordeaux,  to  Paris,  and  to  foreign  parts. 
There  is  no  single  district  in  France  capable  of  producing  all 
the  wine  drunk  as  claret,  so  the  merchant  has  to  buy  large 
quantities  from  the  Herault,  Aude,  Gard,  Gironde,  Charente,  Cher, 
Burgundy,  and  Anjou  districts.  One  wine  is  rich  in  colour  and 
body ;  another  is  thin ;  a  third,  like  the  Charente  wine,  is 
"fresh."  These  are  blended  in  bond,  and  make  up  a  very 
pleasant,  drinkable  wine,  which  has  the  great  advantage  of 
being  moderate  in  price,  principally  because  it  is  not  the  produce 
of  one  single  district. 

Claret  is  made  in  a  very  simple  way.  The  red  grapes  are 
gathered,  taken  to  the  farmhouses,  and  crushed  between  two 
grooved  cylinders. 

*  John  Searcy  &  Sons,  Connaught  Street,  London. 


840 


PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 


ORUS    DE    BORDEAUX. 


Bordeaux. 
Brane  Mouton. 
Brane  Cantenac. 
Brnnet  Poujeaux. 
Cantenac. 
Casse-Bigeon. 
Chateau  Montpelous. 
Chateau  Barregre. 
Chateau  Batailley. 
Chateau  Beaumont. 
Chateau  Beauregard. 
Chateau  Belair. 
Chateau  Cordeillan. 
Chateau  Calon. 
Chateau  Citran. 
Chateau  Clos  Destournel. 
Chateau  Dulamont. 
Chateau  Durfort. 
Chateau  Fleurennes. 
Chateau  Grand  Mousses. 
Chateau  Haut  Brion. 
Chateau  d'Issan. 
Chateau  Labarbe. 
Chateau  Lafite. 


Chateau  la  Font  Rochet 
Chateau  Rochet. 
Chateau  Larose. 
Chateau  Latour. 
Chateau  Pauillac. 
Chateau  Leoville. 
Chateau  Margaux. 
Chateau  Milon. 
Chateau  Montrose. 
Chateau  Mouton. 
Chateau  Rothschild. 
Chateau  Pontet  Canet. 
Chateau  Pelon. 
Chateau  St.  Julien. 
Chateau  Segur. 
Chateau  Tources. 
Cotes  Combleries. 
Cristoly  Medoc. 
Margeaux  Paveil. 
Medoc. 
St.  Emilion. 
Ste.  Estephe. 
St.  Julien. 
St.  George. 


CRUS    DE    BOURGOaNE— BURGUNDY. 


Beaujolais. 

Beaune. 

Bourgogne  Ordinaire 

Chambertin. 

Chassange. 

Chateau  Grille. 

Clairion. 

Clos  de  Gortons. 

Clos  la  Roche. 

Clos  St.  Georges. 

Clos  du  Tart 

Clos  Vougeot. 

Corton. 

Cote  d'or. 


Cote  rotie. 

Dole. 

Fleury. 

Gevrey. 

Hautvilliers. 

Hermitage. 

Julienas. 

Latage. 

Macon  de  Dijon. 

Macon  Ordinaire. 

Morgon. 

Musigny. 

Moulin  -k  Vent. 

Nuits. 


Pitoy. 

Pommard. 

Richebourg. 

Romance. 

Roussillon. 

Santenay. 

Savigny. 

St.  Fleury. 

St.  Paul. 

Thorins. 

Veroilles. 

Volnay. 

Volnay-Sautenot. 

Yosne. 


LIST    OF    WINES 


841 


FRENCH    WHITE 


Arbois. 

Barsac. 

Borumes. 

Buzet. 

Caillon, 

Chablis. 

Chateau  Guirand. 

Chateau  cVYquem. 

Epernay. 


Graves. 

Haut  Sauterne. 

La  Goutte  d'Or. 

Langon. 

Le  Vigneau. 

Loupiac. 

Martilac. 

Meursault. 

Montrachet. 


WINES. 

Muscat  LuneL 

Muscat  Frontignan. 

Pouilly. 

Preignac. 

Sauterne. 

Sillery. 

St.  Croix. 

St.  Fez. 

Villenave  d'Oron. 


GERMAN    WINES. 


The  wines  of  Germany  are  generally  dearer  than  those  of 
France,  owing  chiefly  to  the  large  proportion  of  bad  seasons  in 
the  Rheingau.  The  best  are  the  superior  Hocks  and  Moselles, 
still  and  sparkling,  known  to  consumers,  such  as  Johannisberger, 
Steinberger,  Marcobriinner,  Hochheimer,  Niersteiner,  &;c. 


^  LIST  OF  GERMAN  WINES. 


Ammersweiher. 

Ahrweiler. 

Bensheimer.    '  ^ 

Becksteiner.  \  - 

Bodenheimer.  .%!* 

Budenheimer.  ^C 

Dattenberger. 

Deidesheimer. 

Durbacher. 

Dernauer. 

Diirscheimer. 

Eltviller. 

Erbacher 

Eitelsbacher. 

Erdener. 

Feuersberger. 

Frohner. 

Forster. 

Geisenheimer. 

Gfcbweiler. 

Gerlachheimer. 

Graefenberger. 

Graacher. 

Griinhauser. 

Hallgarter. 

Hattenheimer. 

Heimersheimer. 


Hochheimer. 

Hasberger. 

Honigberger. 

Ingelheimer. 

Jacobsberger. 

Johannisberger. 

Josephshofer. 

Kastelberger. 

Katzenberger. 

Kischberger. 

Koenigsbacher. 

Klingenberger. 

Kreuznacher. 

Laubenheimer. 

LieserMosel. 

Liebfrauenmilch. 

Marcobrunner. 

Marbacher. 

Markgratier. 

Minheimer. 

Moselbliimchen, 

Moselwein. 

Marienthaler. 

Mursbacher. 

Neuberger. 

Neckenheimer. 

Neroberger. 


Niersteiner. 

Oppenheimer. 

Obermemmeler. 

Reichholzheimer, 

Reinsbacher 

Rauenthaler, 

Rehbacher. 

Riidesheimer. 

Rippinger. 

Rosenberger. 

Rieslingwein. 

Ruppertsberger. 

Saalecker. 

Scharzberger. 

Scharlachberger. 

Steinberger. 

Steinwein. 

Tiirkheimer. 

Trittenheimer. 

Ungsteiner. 

Wachenheimer. 

Wadenheimer. 

Weinheimer. 

Wertheimer. 

Wiltinger. 

Zeller. 

Zeltlinger. 


842 


PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 


VllSrS    ITALIEISrS-ITALIAlSr    WINES. 


Italy  produces  a 
becoming  familiar 

Albano. 

Asti. 

Alicante. 

Asti  moscato. 

Asti  rosso. 

Avellino. 

Barbera. 

Bari. 

Barletta 

Bracchetto. 

Barolo. 

Bellaggio. 

Calabria. 

Caluso. 

Capri. 


very  large  quantity  of 
in  England. 

Castellamare. 

Castiglione. 

Chianti. 

Corvino. 

Crignolino. 

Dolcetto. 

Erbaluce. 

Falerno. 

Gallinera. 

Gicrace. 

Lagrima  bianco. 

Marsala. 

Milazo. 

Monte  Delfino. 

Monteserrato. 


wine,  which  is  rapidly 


Moscato  di  Asti. 

Moscato  Segesta. 

Nebbiolo. 

Passito. 

Plana  di  Mascali. 

Pomino. 

Riposco. 

Rufino. 

Siracusa 

Spanna. 

Tokay  di  Asti. 

Valpolicella. 

Vermuto. 

Vino  di  ^tna. 

Vino  Santissimo. 


VINS    GBECS— GREEK 

WINES. 

Achaja. 
Achilles. 

Kalliste. 
Korfu. 

Naupacos. 
Nestor. 

Camerita. 
Cyparieria. 
Elia.    - 
Helena. 

Lacrimae. 
Lubano. 
Mavrodaphane. 
Mont  Enos. 

Odysseus. 
Samos. 

Vino  di  Bacco. 
Vino  doro. 

Homer. 

Moscato. 

Vino  roso. 

VINS  D'ESPAGISTE    ET    VINS    D'AUSTRALIE- 
SPANISH  AND  AUSTRALIAN  WINES. 


Alicante. 

Montilla. 

Eivato. 

Amontillado. 

Moscatel. 

Rivelsaltes. 

Barrocas. 

Mediz. 

Rueda. 

Bucellas. 

Malvoisir. 

San  Lucar. 

Fondillon. 

Marsala. 

Sherry. 

Chasselas. 

Miranda. 

Tarragona. 

Madeira. 

Olivenza. 

Tintilla. 

Madaro. 

Palma. 

Valencia. 

Malaga. 

Oloroso. 

Vinho  Anglica 

Sauvignon. 

Paj  arete. 

Xeres. 

Jeminez. 

Porto. 

Zamora. 

843 

PAET   VIL 
CLASSICAL  BILL  OF  FAEE  QUOTATIONS. 

APPROPRIATE    EXTRACTS  FOR  THE  MENU   COMPILER. 

"  God  sendeth  and  giveth  both  mouth  and  the   meat." — 
Tusser. 

"  Tell  me  whom  you  live  with,  and  I  will  tell  you  what  you 
are." — Spanish  Proverb. 

"  Cheerful  looks  make  every  dish  a  feast." — Massinger. 
"There  may  be  the  same  vitiated  taste  in    the  choice  of 
friends  as  of  food."—  Bacon. 

"  Bread  is  the  staff  of  life."  —Swift,  Tale  of  a  Tub. 
"  You  are  welcome,  worthy  sir,  as  I  have  words  to  bid  you, 
and  you  shall  find  it  so  in  all  that  I  can  do." — Shahespeare. 
"  Ladies,  a  general  welcome." — Henry  VII L  i.  4. 
"  Sit  down  and  feed,  welcome  to  our  table." 

As  You  Like  It,  ii.  8. 
•'  Now,  good  digestion  wait  on  appetite,  and  health  on  both." 

3Iacbeth  iii.  4. 
"  Let's  see  your  list  of  the  larder,  then,  I  ask  it  as  a  favour. 
I  always  match  my  appetite  to  my  bill  of  fare." 

SJie  Stoops  to  Conquer. 
"  The  landlord  told  him  that  his  palate  should  be  suited,  for 
whatever  the  air,  earth,  and   sea  produced,  of  birds,  beasts,  or 
fish,  the  hotel  was  abundantly  supplied  with." — Bon  Quixote. 
"  Egad,  we  have  a  trilling  foolish  banquet  toward." 

Borneo  and  Juliet,  i.  5. 
"  To  the  latter  end  of  a  fray  and  the  beginning  of  a  feast, 
fits  a  dull  fighter  but  a  keen  guest." — Heury  IV.  iv.  2. 
"  Come,  let's  to  dinner." — Henry  IV.  iv.  2. 
"  If  you  have  a  loitering  servant,  send  him  of  thy  errand  just 
before  his  dinner." — Fuller. 

"  Coquetry  whets  the  appetite  ; 
Flirtation  depraves  it." — Ik  JMarvel. 
"  And  there,  merrily  seated  in  a  ring. 
Partook  a  choice  repast." — Massinger, 
"  A  table  richly  spread,  in  regal  modes, 
With  dishes  piled,  and  meats  of  noblest  sort 
And  savour." — Milton. 
"  Let  him  have  food  and  wine  ;  he  has  ridden  hard, 
And  lacks  refreshment." — Sir  Henry  Taylor. 
"  As  he  sat  at  his  meal  the  musick  play'd  sweet, 
With  the  choicest  of  singing  his  joys  to  compleat." 

Percy  Beliques'. 


844  PRACTICAL    GASTEONOMY 

*' '  Prepare,  then,  a  feast,  and  none  of  the  least, 
For  we  will  be  merry,'  quoth  he." — Robin  Hood, 

"  Man,  Nature's  guest  by  invitation  sweet, 
Eeceives  from  her  both  appetite  and  treat ; 
But,  if  he  play  the  glutton,  and  exceed. 
His  benefactress  blushes  at  the  deed." — Cowper. 

*'  What  needes  of  dainty  dishes  to  devise, 
Of  comely  service  or  courtly  trayne." 

HORS-D'CEUVRES. 

"  He  was  a  bold  man  that  first  ate  an  oyster." 

Dean  Sivift,  Conversation. 
"Those  oysters,  too,  that  look  so  plump." — Tom  Hood. 
"  The  treasure  of  an  oyster." — Antony  and  Cleopatra,  i.  5. 
"Item — anchovies  and  sack." — Henry  IV.  ii.  4. 
"  They  call  for  eggs  and  butter." — Heni'y  IV.  ii.  1. 
"  Dishes  alike  delightful  and  appetising." — Leigh  Hunt. 

SOUP. 

"A  hasty  plate  of  soup." — Winfield  Scott. 

"Soup of  the  evening,  beautiful  soup." — Alice  in  Wonderland. 
"  Of  all  the  things  I  ever  swallow, 
Good,  well-dressed  turtle  beats  them  hollow; 
It  almost  makes  me  wish,  I  vow, 
To  have  two  stomachs,  like  a  cow." — Hood. 

"  Spoon  meat — bespeak  a  long  spoon." — Comedy  of  Errors. 

"  That's  meat  and  drink  to  me." — Merry  Wives  of  Windsor, 

"  Gravy  !  gravy  !  gravy  !  " — 2  Henry  IV. 

"  Twenty  turtles." — Merry  Wives  of  Windsor,  ii.  1. 

"  The  imperious  seas  breed  monsters  ;  for  the  dish," 

Cymheline,  iv.  2. 

FISH. 

"  To  change  the  cod's  head  for  the  salmon's  tail." 

Othello,  ii.  1. 
"  Groping  for  trouts." — Measure  for  Measure,  i.  2. 
"  Two  white  herrings." — King  Lear,  iii.  1. 
"  From  the  banks  of  the  Wye,  and  sandy-bottom'd  Severn." 

1  Henry  IV.  iii.  1. 
"  Cry  to  it,  as  the  Cockney  did  to  the  eels,  when  she  put  them 
1'  the  paste  alive."—  King  Lear,  ii.  4. 

"  There's  no  meat  like  them ;  I  could  wish  my  best  friend  at 
such  a  feast." — Timon  of  Athens,  i.  2. 

"  Amidst  the  tumult  of  fish,  flesh,  and  fowl. 
And  vegetables  all  in  masquerade." — Byron. 


CLASSICAL    BILL    OF    FARE    QUOTATIONS  845 

*'  Master,  I  marvel  how  the  fishes  live  in  the  sea. 
Why,  as  men  do  a-land  ;  the  great  ones  eat  up  the  little  ones." 

Shakespeare^  Pericles. 
*'  Green  herbs,  red  pepper,  mussels,  saffron, 
Soles,  onions,  garlic,  roach,  and  dace. 
All  these  you  eat  at  Terre's  tavern 
In  that  one  dish  of  bouillabaisse." — Thachei'ay. 
*'  I'll  make  for  fish."— TAe  Tempest. 
"  Slice,  I  say  1  slice  !  that's  my  humour." 

Merry  Wwes  of  Wiiidsor. 

ENTEEES. 

"  Let  them  bring  stomachs,  there's  no  want  of  meat,  sir. 
Portly  and  curious  viands  are  prepared 
To  please  all  kinds  of  appetites," — Massinger. 
"  How  say  you  a'  to  a  fat  tripe  broiled  ?  " 

Taming  of  the  Shreiv,  iv.  3. 
"  To  swallow  gudgeons  ere  they're  catched. 
And  count  their  chickens  ere  they're  hatched." 

Butler,  Hudihras. 
"  What  is  sauce  for  the  goose  is  sauce  for  the  gander." 

Tom  Brown. 
"  Oysters  pickled  and  stewed  and  baked. 
Oysters  in  soups  and  pies, 
Oysters  scolloped  and  curiously  faked, 

And  oysters  in  patties  and  frys." — Thackeray. 
"  Some  pigeons,  Davy,    .    .    .    and  any  little  tiny  kickshaws, 
tell  William  cook."— 2  Henry  IV.  v.  1, 

"  Come,  we  have  hot  venison  pasty  to  dinner." 

Merry  Wives  of  Windsor,  i.  2. 
"  Which  is  he  that  killed  the  deer  ?  '*' 
"  Let's  present  him  to  the  Duke,  like  a  Roman  conqueror." 

As  You  Like  It,  iv.  2. 
"  Epicurean  cooks  sharpen  with  cloyless  sauce  his  appetite." 

Antony  and  Cleopatra,  ii.  2.. 
"  Who  seeks  for  better  of  thee,  sauce  his  appetite  " 

Timon  of  Athens,  iv.  3. 
"  You  would  eat  chickens  i'  the  shells."  —Troilus  and  Cressida. 
"  What,  all  my  pretty  chickens  ? " — Macheth. 
"  The  daintiest  that  they  taste."— 2  Henry  IV. 
"  What  say'st  thou  to  a  hare  ?  "—1  Henry  IV. 

EOAST  AND  BOILED. 

"  Item— a  capon." — Henry  IV.  ii.  4. 

"  The  roasted  ox  with  the  pudding  in  his  belly." — Henry  7  T".  ii.  4. 

"  I  can  cut  a  caper." — Twelfth  Night. 

"  And  I  can  cut  the  mutton  to  it." — Twelfth  Night. 


846  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

"  Now  is  the  woodcock  near." — Tivelfth  Nighty  i.  v. 
•'  A  turkey  cock — 'tis  no  matter, 

There's  no  sauce  for  it." — Henry  IV. 
"  I  have  a  pheasant !  cock  or  hen  !  " — Winter's  Tale. 
"  Why,  here  he  comes,  swelling  like  a  turkey  cock." 

Henry  F.  v.  1. 
*'0  dainty  duck  !  " — Midsummer  Night's  Dream,  v.  7. 
"  Like  a  full-acorned  boar." — Cymheline,  ii.  5. 
"  Silence  is  only  commendable  in  a  neat's  tongue  dried." 

Merchant  of  Venice,  i.  1. 
•'I have  a  gammon  of  bacon." — 1  Henry  IV.  ii.  1. 
"Are  there  no  young  pigeons  ? " — 2  Henry  IV.  v,  1. 
•'  A  dish  that  I  do  love  to  feed  upon." 

Taming  of  the  Shrew,  iv.  5. 
"  There  is  a  fowl  without  a  feather." — Comedy  of  Errors,  iii.  1. 
"A  pound  of  man's  flesh  is  not  so  estimable, 
Profitable  neither,  as  flesh  of  mutton." — Shakespeare. 
"  Look  to  the  baked  meats,  good  Angelica, 
Spare  not  for  cost." — Romeo  and  Juliet. 
*'  Tour  labouring  people  think,  beyond  all  question, 
Beef,  veal,  and  mutton  better  for  digestion." — Byron. 
"  The  strong  table  groans 
Beneath  the  smoking  sirloin  stretched  immense." — Thomson. 
"  Now  goose  and  turkey  come,  and  hare, 
And  apple-pie  and  custard, 
And  chicken  and  asparagus, 

And  Yorkshire  ham  and  mustard." — Peter  Pindar. 
"  Oh!  the  roast  beef  of  Old  England, 
And,  oh  !  the  old  English  roast  beef." — Fielding. 
"  Carve  him  for  the  gods." — Julius  Ccesar. 
"  What  say  you  to  a  piece  of  beef  and  mustard  ?  " 

Taming  of  the  Shrew,  iv.  5. 
"  Come  you  to  seek  the  lamb  here  ? " — Measure  for  Measure. 

VEGETABLES  AND  SALADS. 

"  Good  cabbage,  good  cabbage." — Merry  Wives  of  Windsor. 
"  You  can  eat  a  leek." — Henry  F.  v.  1. 
"  Salad  was  born  to  do  me  good." — 2  Henry  IV.  iv.  10. 
"  Let  the  sky  rain  potatoes." — Merry  Wives  of  Windsor,  v.  4. 
"  The  roll  I  where's  the  roll  ?  "—2    Henry  IV.  iii.  2. 
"  Oh,  green  and  glorious !  oh,  herbaceous  treat  1 

'T would  tempt  the  dying  anchorite  to  eat ; 

Back  to  the  world  he'd  turn  his  fleeting  soul. 

And  plunge  his  fingers  in  the  salad  bowl  I  " — Sydney  Stnith. 
"For  if  you  do  but  taste  this  cold, 

'Twill  make  your  spirits  rise." — Burns. 


CLASSICAL    BILL    OF    FARE    QUOTATIONS  847 

SWEETS  AND  DESSERT. 

**  Puddings  and  flapjacks  moreover."-   Periclea,  Prince  of  Tyre. 
"  My  wife  desired  some  damsons." — Henry  VI.  ii.  1. 
"  The  fig  of  Spain." — Henry  IV.  iii.  6. 

*'  Hang  him,  rogue,  he  lives  on  stewed  prunes  and  dried  cakes." 

Henry  IV,  iv.  1. 
•'  To  pick  a  salad." — Henry  VI.  iv.  10. 
"  You  Banbury  cheese." — Merry  Wives  of  Windsor,  i.  I, 
"  My  Aqua  Vitse." — Merry  Wives  of  m,ndsor,  ii.  1. 
"  Things  sweet  to  taste,  prove  indigestion  sour." — ShakesjJeare, 
"  While  tumbling  down  the  turbid  stream, 

Lord  love  us,  how  we  apples  swim  !  " — D.  Mallett. 
"  Wouldst  thou  eat,  both  eat  thy  cake  and  have  it  1 " 

G.  Herhert. 
"  Sir  Toby.  Dost  thou  think,  because  thou  art  virtuous,  there 
shall  be  no  more  cakes  and  ale  ? 

Clown.  Yes,  by  Saint  Anne  !   and  ginger  shall  be  hot  i'  the 
mouth  too." — Twelfth  Night. 

•'  After-dinner  talk 
Across  the  walnuts  and  the  wine." 

Tennyson,  The  Miller's  Daughter. 
"  A  surfeit  of  the  sweetest  things." 

Midsummer  Night* s  Dream, 
"  A  piece  of  ice  !  " — Taming  of  the  Shrew. 
"Trifies  as  light  as  2i\x."— Othello. 

"  There's  half-a-dozen  sweets." — Love's  Labour's  Lost,  v.  2. 
"  The  queen  of  curds  and  cream." — Winter's  Tale,  iv.  3. 
"  Hercules  did  shake  down  mellow  fruit." —  Coriolaims,  iv.  6, 
"  Feed  him  with  apricots  and  dewberries  ; 
With  purple  grapes,  green  figs,  and  mulberries." 

Midsummer  Night's  Dream,  iii.  1. 
"  There's  a  medlar  for  thee,  eat  it." — Timon  of  Athens,  iv.  3. 
"  Meaning  thereby  that  grapes  were  made  to  eat,  and  lips  to 
open." — As  You  Like  It,  v.  1. 

SAVOURIES. 

"  To  make  the  matter  savoury." — Hamlet. 
"We'll  mend  our  dinners  here." — Comedy  of  Errors. 
"  The  daintiest  that  they  taste."— 2  Henry  I V. 
"  Pretty  little  tiny  kickshaws." — 2  Henry  I V. 

WINES. 

"  Claret  is  the  liquor  for  boys ;  port  for  men ;  but  he  who 
aspires  to  be  a  hero  must  drink  brandy." 

Boswell,  Life  of  Job  limn. 


848  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

"  If  on  thy  theme  I  rightly  think, 
There  are  fire  reasons  why  men  drink  : 
Good  wine,  a  friend,  because  I'm  dry; 
Or  least  I  should  say  by-and-b}^, 
Or  any  other  reason  why." — H.  Aldrich. 
"  Drink  to  me  only  with  thine  eyes, 
And  I  will  pledge  with  mine  ; 
Or  leave  a  kiss  but  in  the  cup, 
And  I'll  not  look  for  wine." 

Ben  Jonson,  The  Forest, 
"You  cannot  judge  the  liquor  from  the  lees." 

Tennyson,  Queen  Mary. 
"  For  in  my  youth  I  never  did  apply 
Hot  and  rebellious  liquors  in  my  blood." 

As  You  Like  It. 
"  I'll  warrant  she'll  prove  an  excuse  for  the  glass." — Sheridan. 
"  And  as  he  drains  his  draughts  of  Khenish." — Hamlet,  i.  4. 
"  A  cup  of  wine  that's  brisk  and  fine." 

Merry  Wives  of  Windsor. 
"  Your  excellent  sherries." — Henry  IV.  iv.  3. 
"  Brave  Burgundy." — Henry  VI.  iii.  3. 

"  Why  so  very,  very  merry  ? 
Is  it  your  conscience,  or  your 
One-and-seven  sherry  ?  " — Hah  Ballads. 
"  A  little  learning  is  a  dangerous  thing  ; 
Drink  deep,  or  taste  not  the  Pierian  spring," — Pope. 
"  I  drink  no  more  than  a  sponge."— ^«Je^«i6\ 


"  Now  I  praise  the  genial  hostess 
Who  prepares  the  toothsome  dinner." 
*'  The  best  of  the  tables  and  the  best  of  the  fare." — ClougJi. 
"  Coffee,  which  makes  the  politician  wise, 
"  And  see  through  all  things  with  his  half-shut  eyes." 

Pope,  Pape  of  the  Loch. 
"Enough  is  good  as  a  feast." — Pay,  Proi-erhs. 
"  Fate  cannot  harm  me,  I  have  dined  to-day." — Sydney  Smith, 
**  He  calls  for  wine ;  *  a  health,'  quoth  he." 

Taining  of  the  Shrew,  iii.  2. 
**  A  good  traveller  is  something  at  the  latter  end  of  a  dinner." 

Airs  Well  that  Hnds  Well,  ii.  4. 
*'  Tea,  thou  soft,  thou  sober  sage." —  Cihher. 
"  The  sober  berry's  juice  the  slaves  bear  round." — Byron. 
"  Give  me  a  cigar." — Byron. 

"I  will  make  an  end  of   my   dinner.     There's  pippins  and 
cheese  to  come." — Merry  Wives  of  Windsor. 

"  Now,  good  digestion  wait  on  appetite,  and  health  on  both.'^ 

Macheth. 


<^--^^ 


^C  DV  WILLIAM  KITCHENER  J\^ 


J 


FAMOUS  CHEFS  AND  EPICURES        849 

PAKT  VIII. 
FAMOUS  CHEFS  AND  EPICURES. 


THE  WORKS  OF  DB.  WILLIAM  KITOHINER 
AND  DR.  SAMUEL  JOHNSON. 

Dr.  William  Kitchiner  was  born  in  London  in  1775,  and  died 
February  26,  1827.  He  is  described  by  biographers  as  a  "  mis- 
cellaneous writer,"  but  his  interest  to  us  depends  entirely  upon 
his  ha\ing  at  one  time  or  another  written  a  book  on  culinary 
matters,  which  he  styled  "  The  Cook's  Oracle,"  and  which  earned 
a  reputation  that  it  has  maintained  undiminished  up  to  the 
present  time. 

This  book  is  before  me  as  I  write,  and  as  it  was  published  in 
William  Gunter's  time  (1827 — the  same  year  that  Dr.  Kitchiner 
went  over  to  the  majority),  and  William  Gunter  afterwards 
published  a  book  which  he  styled  "The  Confectioner's  Oracle,"  as 
a  "  companion  "  to  Dr.  Kitchiner's,  so  he  himself  announced,  it 
may  be  safely  conjectured  that  the  work  of  one  was  equally 
suitable  for  the  culinary  "  profession  "  as  the  other,  and  that 
"  The  Cook's  Oracle  "  was  not  for  family  use  only.  At  any  rate, 
it  was  regarded  with  so  much  respect  by  the  late  William  Gunter, 
who  should  be  considered  an  authority,  that  he  has  quoted  its 
doctrines  extensively,  for  possibly  even  Gunter  was  impressed  by 
the  learned  doctor,  even  to  the  extent  of  believing  him  to  be  a 
professional  cook  by  virtue  of  his  medical  knowledge  and  endow- 
ments. And  Dr.  Kitchiner  was  a  professed  cook  in  every  sense 
of  the  word,  for  not  only  did  he  study  the  chemistry  of  cooking 
in  all  its  details,  but  he  actually  cooked  and  ate  of  every  dish, 
sauce,  or  anything  else  that  he  prepared  himself,  or  of  which  he 
published  the  recipe,  so  as  to  ensure  three  great  points — namely, 
that  the  taste  was  up  to  the  mark,  and  the  food  wholesome  and 
economical :  matters  that  are  not  always  observed  by  the  first- 
class  chefs  of  to-day ! 

In  Dr.  Kitchiner's  writings  there  is  a  good  deal  to  amuse, 
even  if  there  is  not  much  to  instruct  us  ;  at  any  rate,  though  only 
a  trifle  be  gained,  yet  nothing  can  be  lost  by  a  little  study  o£ 
our  ancient  gastronomer's  work. 

He  tells  us  that  it  is  not  right  to  say  that  a  medical  man 
cannot  write  a  book  upon  cookery  if  he  is  not  a  practical  cook. 
By  an  attentive  consideration  of  the  "rudiments  of  cookery," 
and  the  respective  recipes,  a  novice  in  the  business  of  the  kitchen 
may  work  with  facility  and  certainty  of  success,  and  soon  become 
an  expert.     Dr.  Kitchiner  was  much  assisted  in  his  labours  by 


850  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

Mr.  Henry  Osborne,  the  excellent  cook  to  Sir  Joseph  Banks,  who 
was  then  President  of  the  Eoyal  Society,  who  had  been  a  great 
traveller  in  his  time,  besides  having  journeyed  round  the  world, 
where  he  picked  up  some  foreign  novelties  and  tastes  like  other 
epicures.  Several  books  upon  cookery  have  been  written  by 
physicians : — Sir  Kenelm  Digby,  one  of  the  physicians  to 
Charles  I. ;  Sir  Theodore  Mayerne,  a  physician  to  Henry  IV. 
(in  Paris),  James  I.,  and  afterwards  to  Charles  I. ;  Professor 
Bradley,  Dr.  Hill,  Dr.  Le  Cointe,  Dr.  Hunter,  and  others.  He 
says  that  a  physician,  who  studies  the  practice  as  well  as  the 
science  of  the  thing,  is  the  best  authority  on  this  subject  of 
cookery ;  but  if  rve  ask  whether  a  woman  can  write  a  book  on 
cookery,  we  must  see  what  Dr.  Samuel  Johnson  says  on  this 
subject  : — 

"  Some  people  have  a  foolish  way  of  not  minding,  or  pretend- 
ing not  to  mind,  what  they  eat ;  for  my  part,  I  mind  my  belly" — 
and  he  had  one  to  mind  too — "  very  studiously  and  very  carefully, 
and  I  look  upon  it  that  he  who  does  not  mind  his  belly  will 
hardly  mind  anything  else." 

And  then,  again,  he  once  observed  to  his  friends  :  "  I  could 
write  a  better  book  of  cookery  than  has  ever  yet  been  written  ; 
it  should  be  a  book  on  philosophical  principles ;  I  would  tell 
what  is  the  best  bucher's  meat,  the  proper  seasons  of  different 
vegetables,  and  then,  iiow  to  roast,  and  to  boil,  and  to  compound." 

'* '  Mrs.  Glasse's  Cookery  Book,'  which  is  reckoned  the  best,'' 
said  Mr.  Dilly,  the  publisher,  "  was  written  by  Dr.  Hill." 

"Well,  sir,  this  shows,"  continued  Johnson,  "  how  much  better 
the  subject  of  cookery  may  be  treated  by  a  philosopher  ;  but  you 
shall  see  what  a  book  of  cookery  I  shall  make,  and  shall  agree 
with  Mr.  Dilly  for  the  copyright." 

Miss  Seward — Johnson's  housekeeper — observed, "  That  would 
be  Hercules  with  the  distaff,  indeed  I  " 

"  No,  madam,"  replied  Johnson,  snuffily  :  "  women  can  spin 
very  well,  but  they  cannot  make  a  good  book  of  cooker3\" 

Women  have  made  a  few  of  them,  though,  in  later  years,  and 
very  excellent  books  they  are — being  practical  if  not  philoso- 
phical or  Johnsonian. 

Boswell  says  of  this  Johnson :  "  never  knew  a  man  who 
relished  good  eating  more  than  he  did ;  when  at  table  he  was 
absorbed  in  the  business  of  the  moment,  nor  would  he,  unless 
in  very  high  company,  say  one  word,  or  even  pay  the  least 
attention  to  what  was  said  by  others,  until  he  had  satisfied  his 
appetite,"  which  was  no  trifling  matter,  we  are  told ;  so  that,  if 
being  a  thoroughbred  glutton  and  an  epicure  as  well  qualifies  a 
man  for  giving  an  opinion  on  cookery,  surely  Dr.  Johnson's 
remarks  may  be  taken  as  evidence  enough. 


^(W  AXTOXIX  CAREME     <^ V 


FAMOUS  CHEFS  AND  EPICURES        851 


ANTONIN  CAREME,  1784-1833. 

Antonin  Caeeme — or,  to  give  him  his  full  title,  Marie-Antonin 
Careme — was  a  clief  of  whom  all  cooks  should  feel  proud  ;  for,  as 
a  French  historian  tells  us,  although  he  rose  from  nothing, 
having  been  "  suddenly  deserted  in  his  childhood  by  his  parents, 
in  an  agony  of  destitution "  —yet  he  rose,  by  his  own  magni- 
ficent talents,  from  the  lowest  condition  to  the  highest,  to  be 
one  of  the  greatest  of  chefs  and  to  administer  to  the  tastes  and 
bodily  requirements  of  Talleyrand,  Rothschild,  the  Emperor 
Alexander  of  Russia,  our  King  George  the  Fourth,  and  many 
others. 

"  The  name  of  Careme,"  says  Larousse,  in  his  "  Dictionnaire 
Universelle,"  "has  become  proverbial  to  designate,  in  a  manner, 
the  ideal  of  a  perfect  cook.  Careme  was  not  only  a  practitioner 
'of  the  first  water,  but  was  also  deeply  learned  in  the  culinary 
art,  and  all  that  appertains  to  it.  He  studied  for  a  long  time 
the  ancient  cookery  of  Rome  when  she  was  unequalled  for 
her  la-sdsh  luxury  and  munificence,  but  of  their  table  productions 
he  expresses  himself  unfavourably.  He  comments  in  high  terms 
upon  their  table  decorations,  cups,  bowls,  flowers,  music,  and 
all  that,  but  of  their  dishes  he  says  nothing  of  a  noteworthj'- 
character." 

M,  Antonin  Careme  was  born  at  Paris  in  1784,  and  as  a 
youth  attracted  the  attention  of  M.  Laguipi^re,  who  took  him 
in  hand  as  a  lad,  and  sowed  the  seeds  in  him  that  produced 
such  splendid  results.  This  great  and  generous  service  was  not 
forgotten  by  Careme,  and  it  is  thus  that  he  memorialises  his 
friend  and  patron : — 

"  To  the  Memory  of  Lagmpiere. 
"  Rise,  oh  illustrious  shade  of  Laguipiere  !  Hear  the  words 
of  a  man  who  was  thy  devout  admirer  and  pupil.  Tiiy  extra- 
ordinary talents  have  brought  down  upon  you  the  hatred  and 
persecution  of  those  who  ought  to  esteem  you  in  recognition  of 
thy  noble  efforts  for  the  perfection  of  thine  art.  But  what  am 
I  saying  ?  Is  it  fitting  for  a  man  of  talent  to  enjoy  in  peace  the 
fruit  of  his  mental  labours  ?  Have  I  not  had  a  pitiable  experience 
of  it  ?  0  vicissitude !  0  ignorance  !  O  Laguipiere,  infamous 
calumny  has  indeed  surrounded  thee  with  tribulation — on  ac- 
count of  which  thou  hast  been  forced  to  quit  thy  beautiful 
country,  and  go  to  serve,  in  Italy,  a  powerful  man  for  whom  you 
recently  made  delicacies  in  the  Elysee-Bourbon.  Thou  hast 
followed  thy  king  into  Russia  ;  but,  alas  !  by  a  most  deplorable 
fatality  amongst  military  pomps,  thou  hast  perished  ;  thy  hands 
and  feet  frozen  by  the  frightful  climate  of  the  north.  You  were 
compelled  to  sit  without  moving  behind  the  cairiage  of  your 
king,  longing  to  quit  this  murderous  land ;  but,  alas  !  implacable 


852  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

Death  was  already  knocking  at  the  door.  Arrived  at  Wilna,  thy 
generous  prince  was  lavish  with  his  gold  to  save  you,  but  thy 
dying  body  could  no  longer  take  nourishment. 

"  Oh,  my  master  !  thou  hast  lived  persecuted  and,  to  com- 
plete the  sorrowful  chapter,  thou  hast  died  in  agony  a  thousand 
times  more  cruel  than  hunger,  or  the  icy  cold  of  the  north. 

"  0  grand  Laguipiere  !  upon  this  solemn  day,  accept  the 
public  homage  of  a  faithful  pupil.  Yes,  in  spite  of  thy  enviers, 
I  will  associate  your  name  with  my  works.  Already,  in  my 
works  I  have  quoted  you  with  pride,  and  this  day,  so  dear  to  my 
heart,  I  league  with  your  memory  the  best  of  them  all.  This 
will  bear  witness  in  the  future  to  the  elegance  and  sumptuosity 
of  the  culinary  art  in  the  eighteenth  century  ;  and,  if  Vatel  is 
rendered  illustrious,  by  a  sense  of  honour  dear  to  every  man  of 
merit,  thy  unhappy  end,  0  Laguipiere,  renders  thee  well  worthy 
of  being  also  illustrious.  It  was  due  to  thy  sense  of  honour 
that  made  you  willing  to  follow  your  prince  into  Russia, 
and  you  were  then  a  witness  to  the  disasters  by  which  you 
yourself  were  struck  down.  But,  alas  1  you  of  all  people  ought 
to  have  died  in  Paris.  Thy  white  hairs  seemed  to  ensure  for 
you  a  better  fate  ;  yet  you  shared  the  sad  lot  of  our  veterans, 
and  the  honour  of  our  martial  ranks,  perishing  of  hunger  and  of 
cold  under  the  frigid  sky  of  Russia. 

"  u  Laguipiere  !  may  thy  remain*  rest  peacefully  in  the 
tomb  ;  thy  renown  has  revenged  all  thy  injuries." 

Careme  adds  to  this  elegy  the  following  note : — "  In  the 
frightful  campaign  of  1812  we  lost  a  great  number  of  cooks 
belonging  to  the  marshals  of  France  and  ministers  of  Napoleon. 
Of  more  than  twenty  men  who  composed  the  personal  domestic 
staff  of  the  Duke  de  Narbonne  only  two  escaped  from  this 
terrible  catastrophe." 

This  pitiful  story  of  Laguipiere  is  worth  recording,  but  to 
what  Careme  alludes  as  the  infamous  calumnies  and  persecution 
that  drove  him  from  his  country  we  are  unable  to  discover. 
Apparently  cooks  are  quite  as  subject  to  scandal  as  their  masters, 
and  often  more  so,  and  that  probably  with  greater  justice  than 
it  would  at  all  times  be  convenient  to  acknowledge. 

We  are  told  that  Careme  was  illustrious  by  descent,  "  for  his 
ancestors  had  served  in  the  household  of  a  Pope,  who  himself 
made  more  sauces  than  saints,  Leo  X."  But  Careme  was  one  of 
so  poor  and  so  numerous  a  family,  that  when  he  came  into  the 
world  he  was  no  more  welcome  than  Oliver  Goldsmith  was. 

Careme,  it  is  said,  studied  under  various  great  masters  of  the 
kitchen,  but  perfected  his  studies  under  Boucher,  the  chef  to 
Prince  Talleyrand.  The  glory  of  Careme  was  crowned  with  that 
of  Napoleon.  Those  two  individuals  were  great  men  at  the  same 
time,  but  the  glory  of  one  will,  perhaps,  be  a  little  more  enduring 
than  that  of  the  other.     In  the  days  of  the  Empire — "the  era  of 


FAMOUS  CHEFS  AND  EPICURES        853 

the  greatness,  of  the  achievements,  and  of  the  reflections  of 
Careme " — the  possession  of  him  was  as  eagerly  contested  by 
the  rich  as  that  of  a  nymph  by  the  satyrs.  "  He  was  alternately 
the  glory  of  Talleyrand,  the  boast  of  Lavalette,  and  the  pride  of 
the  ISaxon  ambassador.  In  their  houses,  too,  his  hand  was  as 
often  on  his  pen  as  on  the  handle  of  his  casserole ;  and  inspira- 
tion never  visited  his  brain  without  the  call  being  duly  registered 
"in  his  note-book,  with  reflections  thereon  highly  philosophical 
and  gastronomic." 

But  Careme  appears  to  have  been  of  a  rather  capricious 
nature,  and  passed  from  kitchen  to  kitchen  as  the  bee  wings  from 
flov/er  to  flower,  and  possibly  also  equally  in  quest  of  "  hone3^" 
The  Emperor  Alexander  dined  with  Talleyrand,  and  forthwith 
he  seduced  Careme ;  the  seduction  money  was  £100  a  month, 
and  all  culinary  expenses.  But  Careme  did  not  yield  without  a 
little  exhibition  of  coyness.  "  He  urged  his  love  for  study,  his 
desire  to  refine  the  race  (of  chefs')  of  which  he  made  himself  the 
model,  his  love  for  his  country,"  and,  possibly,  a  lively  recollec- 
tion of  the  sufferings  of  Laguipi^re  in  Kussia.  Whilst  the 
Emperor  was  baiting  his  hook  to  catch  Careme,  that  gentleman 
started  off  to  Vienna  with  Lord  Stewart,  taking  care,  however,  to 
leave  a  trail  by  which  he  could  be  followed.  Count  OrlofE  was 
soon  set  off  upon  his  track,  and,  after  following  the  artful  worthy 
to  London  and  Paris,  persuaded  him  at  last  to  do  the  Emperor 
Alexander  the  honour  of  taking  the  head  of  the  Imperial 
kitchen. 

But  he  did  not  stop  in  Russia  very  long,  for  his  book  of 
expenses  was  subject  to  supervision,  which  gave  him  great 
offence,  and  he  flung  up  his  appointment  in  disgust.  Careme 
repaired  to  France,  and  entered  the  service  of  the  Princess 
Bagration,  and  served  the  table  of  that  whimsical  lady  to  such 
good  effect  that  she  dubbed  him,  before  her  gratified  friends,  as 
"  The  Pearl  of  Cooks  "  ('*  La  Perle  des  Cuisiniers  "). 

This  princess  ate  herself  into  a  permanent  indigestion,  and 
Careme  then  transferred  his  attachment  to  the  English  ambas- 
sador at  the  court  of  Vienna.  "  There,  every  morning,  seated  in 
his  magnificent  kitchen,  Careme  received  the  visit  of  '  Milor 
Stewart,'  who  seldom  left  him  without  presents  and  encourage- 
ments. Indeed,  these  rained  upon  the  immortal  artist.  The 
Emperor  Alexander  had  consented  to  have  Careme's  projects  in 
culinary  architecture  dedicated  to  him,  and,  with  notice  of 
consent,  sent  him  a  diamond  ring,  which  Prince  Walkonski 
placed  on  his  finger." 

Two  years  before  George  IV.  came  to  the  throne,  Careme  was 
for  a  short  time  a  member  of  the  Piegent's  household.  He  left 
Vienna  to  be  present  at  the  coronation,  but  arrived  too  late,  and 
he  docs  not  scruple  to  say,  very  ungenerously,  that  the  banquet 
was  spoiled  for  want  of  his  presence,  nor  to  insinuate  that  the 


854  PEACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

colleagues  with  whom  he  would  have  been  associated  were 
unworthy  of  such  an  association.  After  being  the  object  of  a 
species  of  semi-worship,  and  yielding  to  every  new  offer,  yet 
affecting  to  despise  them  all,  Careme  ultimately  joined  the  house- 
hold of  Baron  Rothschild,  in  Paris.  George  IV".  is  said  to  have 
tempted  him  by  offering  triple  salaries;  but  all  in  vain,  for 
London  was  too  triste  an  abiding  place  for  a  man  whose  soul, 
out  of  kitchen  hours,  was  given  to  study.  And  so  Careme 
remained  with  his  patron,  "  until  infirmity  overtook  his  noble 
nature,  and  he  retired  to  dictate  his  immortal  words  to  his 
accomplished  daughter." 

Even  in  his  retirement  Careme  was  eagerly  sought  after,  but 
he  was  deaf  to  the  voice  of  the  tempter.  Money  was  no  longer 
an  object  with  him,  for  he  was  realising  twenty  thousand  francs 
a  year  from  the  booksellers,  besides  the  interest  of  the  money  he 
had  saved.  "Think  of  it,  shade  of  Milton  (Milton  used  to 
dictate  to  his  daughter),"  shrieks  a  writer  of  recent  years, 
"  eight  hundred  pounds  sterling  yearly  for  writing  on  kitchen- 
stuff  !  Who  would  compose  epics  after  that  ?  "  But  Careme's 
books  are  "  epics  "  after  their  sort,  and  a  fitting  monument  of  a 
famous  man,  who  had  been  "the  imperial  despot  of  European 
kitchens,  had  been  '  be-ringed  '  by  monarchs,  and  been  smiled  on 
by  princesses ;  he  had  received  lords  in  his  kitchen,  and  had 
encountered  ladies  who  gave  him  a  great  deal  for  a  very  little 
knowledge  in  return." 

Wheri  we  look  back  upon  the  past  history  of  the  kitchen,  it 
seems  rather  more  than  a  paradox  why  it  should  be  that, 
although  so  many  clever  cooks  have  left  their  marks  in  literature, 
yet  so  little  is  known  of  their  personal  qualities,  or  history. 
Antonin  Careme  is  the  chef  to  whom  the  title  "  Father  of  Modern 
Chefs  "  was  once  most  aptly  applied ;  but  how  many  good  chefs 
have  existed  since  then,  and  fretted  their  hour  upon  the  stage  to 
pass  into  oblivion — a  memorable  instance  of  the  ingratitude  of 
mankind,  and  of  epicures  in  particular,  towards  those  who  have 
served  them  well.  One  wrote  immortal  poetry  and  starved,  the 
other  made  delicious  pastry  and  rode  in  a  chariot  !  We  know 
how  much  Oliver  received  for  his  "  Vicar,"  whilst  Antonin 
Careme  used  to  receive  twice  as  much  for  merely  \sTiting  out  a 
recipe  to  make  a  ^«fe.  Nay,  Careme's  untouched  patties,  when 
they  left  royal  tables,  were  bought  up  at  a  large  price  ;  and 
a  cold  sugared  entremet,  at  the  making  of  which  Careme  had 
presided,  was  only  obtainable  by  such  as  had  plenty  of  money 
at  their  command. 


5f(C,    EUSTACHE   UDE    J)v^ 


FAMOUS  CHEFS  AND  EPICURES        855 


LOUIS  EUSTACHE  UDE. 

Ude  issued  the  tenth  edition,  "  corrected  and  enlarged,"  of  his 
renowned  "  French  Cook,  adapted  to  the  use  of  English  Families," 
from  Crockford's  Club  House,  St.  James's  Street.  He  signs  it 
thus:  "By  Louis  Eustache  Ude,  ci-devant  cook  to  Louis  XVI. 
and  the  Earl  of  Sefton  ;  late  Steward  to  the  United  Service  Club, 
to  his  late  Royal  Highness  the  Duke  of  York ;  and  now  Maitre 
(T Hotel  at  Crockford's  Club,  St.  James's  Street."  The  book  was 
sold  everywhere  by  the  elite  among  the  booksellers,  and  Ude  no 
doubt  made  a  large  fortune  over  his  publications,  which  still 
maintain  a  great  reputation. 

Ude  spoke  out,  but  he  spoke  for  himself,  and  his  w^ords  were 
noble  concerning  the  art  of  cookery,  so  far  as  he  and  a  few  others 
were  concerned.  Ude  was  a  florid  writer,  but  he  made  himself 
felt,  and  he  has  probably  not  been  surpassed  in  self-confidence  b}'" 
any  other  writer  in  any  other  profession.  He  felt  his  importance, 
and  acted  upon  it ;  but  in  the  eyes  of  many  he  was  "only  a  cook  " 
after  all.  Ude,  however,  maintained,  and  there  is  much  reason 
in  his  argument,  that  to  compose  an  oratorio  or  opera  was  an 
easier  feat  than  to  invent  a  new  enlrce,  and  that  a  man  of  the 
requisite  natural  endowments  could  sooner  qualify  himself  to 
compete  wath  the  Royal  Academicians  than  with  the  chief 
operators  in  cookery.  "  I  shall,"  he  observes,  "  demonstrate  the 
difficulty  of  the  art  by  some  observations  in  other  arts.  Music, 
painting,  and  mechanics  in  general  possess  professors  under 
twenty  years  of  age,  whereas  in  the  iirst  line  of  cooking  pre- 
eminence never  occurs  under  thirty.  We  see  daily  at  the 
concerts  and  academies  young  men  and  women  who  displa}'  the 
greatest  abilities,  but  in  our  line  nothing  but  the  most  consum- 
mate experience  can  elevate  a  man  to  the  rank  of  Chief 
Professor." 

The  precise  age  when  Ude  served  his  apprenticeship  in 
cooker}- is  difficult  to  state;  but  this  is  certain:  he  was  not  a 
youth  when  he  definitively  fixed  upon  the  culinary  art  for  his 
living. 

Again :  "  Prescriptions,  we  must  admit,  are  dispensed  by 
weight  and  measure ;  but  dishes  owe  their  virtue  to  sympath}-, 
tact,  nervous  sensibility,  and  momentary  inspirations." 

"The  pharmacist,"  he  continues,  with  that  bombast  that 
rendered  him  comparatively  uninfluential,  "  is  obliged  to  weigh 
every  ingredient  that  he  employs,  as  he  does  not  like  to  taste  it ; 
the  cook,  on  the  contrary,  must  taste  often,  as  the  reduction 
increases  the  flavour.  It  would  be  blind  work,  indeed,  without 
tasting  ;  the  very  best  soups  in  which  you  have  omitted  to  put 
salt  are  entirely  without  flavour ;  seasoning  is  in  cookery  what 


856  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

chords  are  in  music  ;  the  best  instruments  in  the  hands  of  the 
best  professors,  without  their  being  in  tune,  are  intolerable." 

Speaking  of  Gonthier  d'Andernach,  whom  he  designates 
"  the  Father  of  Cookery  in  France,"  and  "  a  star  which  shone  in 
the  Reformation,"  Ude  exclaims  with  emotion,  "What  Bacon 
was  to  philosophy,  Dante  and  Petrarch  to  poetry,  Michael 
Angelo  and  Raphael  to  painting,  Columbus  and  Gama  to 
geogTaphy,  Copernicus  and  Galileo  to  astronomy,  Gonthier  was 
in  France  to  the  art  of  cooker3^"  That  was  pretty  good  for 
praise ;  but  he  continued,  "  Gonthier  appeared  to  raise  the 
culinary  edifice,  as  Descartes,  a  century  after  him,  raised  that  of 
philosophy.  Both  introduced  doubt — the  one  in  the  moral 
(or  should  it  be  '  social '  1)  and  the  other  in  the  political  world." 

Mr.  Ude  has  managed  to  raise  a  little  doubt  in  his  own  world, 
for  there  appears  to  have  been  no  public  record  taken  of  his 
birth.  All  we  can  learn  of  his  antecedents  dates  from  his  active 
life  as  a  cook — he  promised  once,  we  are  told,  to  write  the 
memoirs  of  his  life;  but,  alas  !  poor  Ude  was  no  more  immortal 
than  the  best  of  them.  For  upwards  of  twenty  years  Ude  served 
Lord  Sef  ton,  and  introduced  the  light  sandwich  ball  supper  so 
much  in  favour  in  present  times.  Ude  was  also  once  maitre 
dliotel  to  H.R.H.  the  Duke  of  York,  from  whom,  it  is  re- 
ported, "he  contrived  to  elicit  many  a  hearty  laugh  by  his 
clever  mimicry."  Under  his  auspices,  also,  "  the  great  play- 
house in  St.  James's,  Crockford's,  was  ushered  into  its  de- 
structive career."  Another  authority  upon  these  matters,  and 
who  seems  to  know  about  as  much  of  Ude's  career  as 
anybody,  tells  us  that  "  Louis  Eustache  Ude  was  verily  the 
Gil  Bias  of  the  kitchen.  He  had,  in  his  latter  days,  a  notion  of 
writing  his  memoirs ;  and  if  they  had  not  proved  deeply 
interesting,  those  who  knew  him  well  can  with  truth  assert 
that  many  would  have  relished  the  curious  scandal  and  pleasant 
gossip  with  which  his  astonishing  memory  was  so  well  stored. 
Ude's  mamma  was  an  attractive  and  lively  milliner,  who 
married  an  underling  in  Louis  X VI. 's  kitchen,"  hence  he  found  a 
welcome  there,  and  was  duly  christened  after  the  king.  Ude  was 
intended  to  be  brought  up  as  a  priest  or  to  study  medicine. 
"  The  mother,  however,  thouglit  Master  Eustache  too  pretty  a 
boy  to  be  sacrificed  to  the  priesthood.  The  consequence  was 
that,  after  an  attempt  made  by  his  sire  to  train  him  in  his  own 
glorious  xjath,  the  youngster  absconded,  and  apprenticed  himself , 
first  to  a  jeweller,  then  to  an  engraver,  next  to  a  printer,  and 
lastly  to  a  haberdasher  I  After  which  he  became  traveller  for 
a  mercantile  house  at  Lyons.  Something  occurred  to  him  at 
this  point  which  occasioned  him  to  change  his  vocation  once 
more.  He  returned  to  Paris,  and  there  tried  his  genius  as  an 
actor  at  a  small  theatre.  He  soon,  however,  discovered  that 
his  share  of  the  world's  cake  was  not  on  that  stage,  and,  by 


FAMOUS  CHEFS  AND  EPICUEES        857 

some  means,  he  set  up  an  office  and  a  cabriolet^  and  forthwith 
started  into  life  as  an  agent  de  change.  This  scheme  did  not 
last  long;  he  got  cleane_d  out  on  'Change,  and  shortly  after  was 
installed  as  an  inspector  of  gambling-houses.  He  soon  tired  of 
this  appointment,  and,  on  relinquishing  it,  determined  to  return 
to  his  original  calling,  and  became  once  again  a  cook." 

"  After  practising  in  the  culinary  profession  some  few  years 
in  the  early  dawn  of  the  fortunes  of  the  house  of  Bonaparte, 
Ude  raised  himself  to  the  post  of  maitre  cVhotel  to  Madame 
Letitia  Bonaparte.  Here  he  remained  for  about  two  years, 
when,  owing  to  some  difference  of  opinion  between  Madame 
Letitia  and  himself  in  matters  '  arithmetical,'  he  somewhat 
suddenly  left  that  lady's  service  to  honour  England  with  his 
presence  ;  and  ever  after,  when  fitting  opportunity  presented 
itself,  he  was  wont  to  express  his  indignation  against  the 
vsurpateur  and  all  his  family.  Good  cooks  were  scarce  in 
England  in  those  days,  and,  shortly  after  his  arrival,  the  late 
Earl  of  Sefton  secured  his  services  at  a  salary  of  300  guineas 
per  annum ;  and  not  only  proved  himself  a  liberal  and  kind- 
hearted  patron  during  his  lifetime,  but,  with  that  benevolence 
for  which  he  was  remarkable,  handsomely  provided  for  the 
old  age  of  his  favourite  cook  by  leaving  him  £100  a  year 
for  life." 

Ude  was  the  first,  it  is  said,  to  define  clearly  the  distinction 
between  entrees,  and  entremets.  It  was  usual  to  use  these  terms 
very  indifferently.  Ude  said  that  an  entree  was  "any  dish  of 
meat,  fowl,  game,  or  tish,  dressed  and  cooked  for  the  second 
course,"  and  entremet  applied  to  "  all  vegetable  dishes,  jellies, 
pastries,  salads,  prawns,  lobsters,  and  in  general  to  everything 
that  appears   in  the  second  course — except  the  roast. " 


858  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 


ALEXIS  SOYER,  1809-1858. 

In  October,  1809,  at  Meaux-en-Brie,  a  small  town  in  France  noted 
for  its  cheese,  called  Fromage  de  Brie,  Alexis  Soyer  first  saw  the 
light,  and  was  forthwith  dedicated  to  the  service  of  the  church 
by  his  parents,  who  were  small  shopkeepers  in  that  town.  Alexis 
Soyer  had  two  brothers,  Philippe,  apprenticed  to  the  kitchen, 
and  young  Louis  to  cabinet-making ;  but  at  nine  years  of  age 
our  youthful  hero  was  sent  to  the  cathedral  church  as  chorister, 
to  earn  by  his  singing  a  free  instruction  for  the  priesthood.  He 
is  reputed  to  have  possessed  a  good  voice  and  an  ear  for  music, 
which  would  have  served  him  well  in  his  devotional  practices, 
but  which  he  used  in  after  life  to  amuse  his  social  companions.    - 

Alexis  urged  his  parents  to  alter  his  course,  but  without 
effect,  so  he  thought  it  well  to  alter  it  for  himself.  The  story  is 
told  that  he  consummated  his  desire  to  leave  the  church  by 
tolling  the  big  bell  of  the  cathedral  and  giving  an  alarm  of 
fire  in  the  middle  of  the  night,  in  consequence  of  which  the 
inhabitants  were  scared  out  of  their  slumber  and  the  garri.son 
placed  underarms.  When  the  author  of  this  escapade  was  found 
out,  his  dismissal  from  the  choir  of  the  cathedral  followed  as  a 
matter  of  course,  much  to  the  distress  of  his  parents,  who  little 
dreamed  then  of  the  fame  that  was  in  store  for  their  light-headed 
and  light-hearted  bantling. 

For  some  years  his  future  was  very  undecided,  and  it  was 
not  until  he  was  sixteen  that  he  made  any  move  at  all  towards 
selecting  a  career,  and  then  his  brother  Philippe  induced  him 
to  turn  his  attention  to  cooking,  and  accordingly  he  was 
apprenticed  at  Grignon  in  1826.  Having  completed  his  appren- 
ticeship with  more  or  less  colat,  he  was  engaged  by  Douix,  the 
well-known  restaurateur  in  the  Boulevard  des  Italiens,  with 
whom  he  remained  three  years,  taking  the  head  of  the  kitchen 
when  little  more  than  seventeen.  But  Soyer's  culinary  inclina- 
tions were  not  yet  definitely  fixed  ;  he  was  excessively  fond  of 
gaiety,  therefore  his  next  fancy  was  for  the  stage,  to  which  he  was 
possibly  led  by  the  applause  of  liis  friends  and  associates,  who 
flattered  his  vanity  whilst  loudly  eulogising  his  mad  pranks,  his 
mimicry  and  mischief. 

In  1830  he  was  appointed  to  serve  in  the  Foreign  Office  as 
second  cook,  which  he  did  for  a  few  weeks  only,  when  the 
revolution  broke  out  and  the  kitchen  was  stormed,  Soyer  saving 
himself  from  rough  treatment  by  singing  the  "  Marseillaise " 
with  all  his  might,  beating  time  with  a  spoon,  which  led  to  his 
being  carried  off  in  triumph  by  the  mob,  whilst  all  his  confreres 
were  ill-used,  and  some  were  actually  shot.  It  also  led  in  the 
following  year  to  his  walking  out  of  the  country,  scarcely  in 
triumph,  to  London,  where  he  joined  his  brother  in  the  service 


5!(V.      ALEXIS   SOYKl\      jj 


I 


FAMOUS  CHEFS  AND  EPICURES        859 

of  the  late  Duke  of  Cambridge.  Thence  he  found  his  way  to 
the  Duke  of  Sutherland's  kitchen,  the  Marquis  of  Waterford's, 
and  then  to  Mr.  Lloyd's,  of  Aston  Hall,  Oswestry.  After  spend- 
ing some  four  or  five  years  in  this  latter  engagement,  he  left  it 
to  enter  the  establishment  of  the  Marquis  of  Ailsa,  at  Isleworth, 
a  gourmet  of  the  very  first  water.  But  Soyer  left  there  in  1836, 
having  previously  contracted  an  acquaintance  with  a  Miss  Emma 
Jones,  a  clever  pupil,  and  step-daughter  of  one  M.  Simonau,  a 
Flemish  artist  in  Fitzroy  Square.  The  story  goes  that  Soyer 
wanted  a  painting  of  himself  to  send  to  an  old  sweetheart  in 
France,  but  possibly  changed  his  mind  about  the  destination  of 
the  portrait  after  making  the  friendship  and  awakening  a 
reciprocal  affection  in  the  heart  of  this  amiable  lady.  In  April, 
1837,  the  marriage  ceremony  was  solemnised,  in  the  presence  of 
Louis  Eustache  Ude  and  a  select  few  friends,  at  St.  George's, 
Hanover  Square,  between  Alexis  Benoit  Soyer  and  Elizabeth 
Emma  Jones. 

Madame  Soyer,  nee  Jones,  deserves  some  special  notice,  for 
she  was  a  very  clever  woman  in  many  ways.  Not  only  could  she 
paint  cleverly,  but  her  skill  as  a  musician  was  considered  of  a 
very  superior  character,  although  it  is  a  noteworthy  fact  that  her 
pictures,  which  were  her  strongest  point,  were  declined  at  the 
Koyal  Academy,  in  spite  of  Soyer's  very  enterprising  letter  to 
the  president,  requesting  his  particular  consideration.  Soyer 
was  given  to  versify  at  times,  and  he  made  the  president's  reply 
to  him,  and  the  hanging  committee's  refusal  of  his  wife's 
painting,  the  subject  of  some  bitter  metrical  lampoons.  Madame 
Soyer's  end  was  of  a  very  tragical  character,  and  happened  whilst 
her  husband  was  on  a  trip  to  Brussels,  in  the  suite  of  the  Duke 
of  Saxe  Coburg. 

The  first  of  Soyer's  literary  efforts  was  entitled  *'  The  Gastro- 
nomic Kegenerator,"  which  had  a  splendid  sale  of  over  2,000 
copies  in  twelve  months,  at  a  guinea  apiece.  His  next  effort 
was  as  the  writer  of  a  ballet,  "  La  Fille  de  I'Orage."  M.  Soyer 
could  be  as  rcclierclie  in  his  imaginary  as  in  his  I'eal  dishes, 
and  there  was,  probably,  no  compound  with  which  he  used  to 
astonish  and  delight  the  palates  of  the  members  of  the  Reform 
Club  more  elaborately  and  artistically  worked  up  than  his 
"  Creme  de  la  Grande  Bretagne." 

It  was  in  1837,  just  before  his  marriage,  that  Soyer  accepted 
the  post  of  head  cook  to  the  Reform  Club,  and,  as  his  historians 
state,  "  It  was  no  joke  for  a  young  aspirant  and  a  foreigner  to 
face  some  fifteen  hundred  members  of  the  aristocracy,  whose 
refined  appetites  were  on  the  qxii  vire  to  taste,  with  severe 
criticism,  the  productions  of  the  youthful  artist.  But  Soj-er 
was  in  no  wise  daunted  by  such  an  array,  but  undertook  with 
a  light  heart  to  face  their  severely  critical  tastes  in  the 
preparation  of  a  public  breakfast,  given  by  the  members  of  the 
club  to  2,000    guests.    It    was   about  this  time — that  is,  just 


860  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

previous  to  his  marriage — that  he  made  friends  with  Louis 
Eustache  Ude,  of  Crockford's  Club  House,  with  whom  he  was 
afterwards,  with  his  wife,  on  terms  of  friendly  intimacy.  Ude 
gave  a  dinner  party  on  the  occasion  of  his  birthday,  and  to  this 
M.  and  Madame  Soyer  Avere  duly  invited.  The  scene  is  most 
amusingly  described  by  8oyer,  who  made  great  fun  out  of  the 
complications  that  were  occasioned  by  M.  and  Madame  Ude's 
passion  for  dogs. 

From  all  accounts  that  can  be  gathered  from  those  who 
knew  him  Alexis  Soyer  was  a  merry  fellow,  and  as  full  of  fun 
as  could  be — no  man  loved  a  practical  joke  more  than  he,  and 
few  were  so  smart  at  repartee.  One  day  Lord  Melbourne  was 
inspecting  his  kitchen  at  the  Eeform  Club,  and  laughingly 
observed  to  Soyer  that  his  female  assistants  were  remarkable 
for  good  looks.  "  Ah  !  my  lord,"  replied  Soyer,  with  a  knowing 
smile,  "  we  do  not  want  plain  cooks  here." 

With  reference  to  Soyer's  work  in  his  profession,  it  has 
been  stated  by  some  that  there  was  not  so  much  art  displayed  as 
originality.  This  may  be  so  ;  but,  in  any  case,  whether  deserving 
or  not,  Soyer  was  a  thorough  master  of  the  art  of  making 
himself  famous.  His  method  was  to  make  something,  or  some 
one  else,  famous  first,  and  then  to  take  his  share  as  the 
promoter :  for  instance,  every  aristocrat  in  the  country  paid  a 
visit  to  his  "model"  kitchen  at  the  Reform  Club,  and  these 
Soyer  would  conduct  himself,  with  his  red  velvet  cap  set  on  one 
side  of  his  head  and  spoon  in  hand,  and,  after  extolling  the 
glories  of  the  place,  he  would  shake  up  a  pan  and  commence 
to  prepare  a  dish,  explaining  the  process  as  he  went  along,  and 
then  serve  it  to  his  guests,  requesting  the  opinion  of  their 
palates.  It  might  be  mentioned  that  he  always  had  a  glass  of 
good  wine  to  set  alongside,  and  proclaimed  the  dishes  as  being 
specially  prepared  for  some  grandee  a  degree  or  two  at  least 
above  the  status  of  his  visitor.     To  her  ladyship  he  would  say, 

"  The  Duke  of has  ordered  this  dish  for  to-night ;  let  us 

taste  it,"  and  the  result  was  a  certain  appreciation.  Amongst 
all  this  gastronomic  splendour  it  is  remarkable,  though,  that 
Soyer's  own  tastes  and  habits  were  exceedingly  simple.  He  tells 
us  in  one  of  his  works,  the  "  Modern  Housewife":  "  WTien  I 
first  married  our  means  were  limited,  and  the  following  w^as  our 
system  of  living  : — 

Sunday  Dinner  .  Roast  beef,  potatoes,  greens,  and  Yorkshire 
pudding. 

Monday      „       .  Hashed  beef  and  potatoes. 

Tuesday  „  .  Broiled  beef  and  bones,  vegetables,  and 
spotted-dick  pudding. 

Wednesday  „       .  Fish,  if  cheap,  chops,  and  vegetables. 

Thursday     „       .  Boiled  pork,  peas-padding,  and  greens. 

Friday         ,,       .  Pea-soup,  and  remains  of  pork. 

Saturday     „       .  Stewed  steak,  with  suet  dumpling." 


FAMOUS  CHEFS  AND  EPICURES        861 

Many  a  time  has  he  been  known  to  dive  into  some  back  slum 
and  purchase  two-pennyworth  of  fried  fish,  devouring  it  with 
consummate  relish,  and  preferring  it  to  a  rol-au-vent  or  cotelette 
of  his  own  cooking.  He  was  a  professor  of  taste,  but  not  a 
gourmet. 

The  grand  banquets  undertaken  and  designed  by  Soyer  were 
very  numerous,  the  details  of  which  are  found  in  print  in  his 
books — his  Diner  Lticidlvsien  a  la  Sampayo  was,  perhaps,  the 
masterpiece  of  all,  at  least,  he  himself  pronounced  it  to  be  so. 
The  Bouquet  de  Gihier,  or  nosegay  of  game,  which  he  presented 
to  Louis  Philippe,  and  for  which  he  received  such  a  memorable 
letter  in  return,  was  remarkable.  It  was  about  ten  feet  high 
and  wide  in  proportion :  "  The  frame  was  richly  covered  with 
Christmas  holly,  laurel,  mistletoe,  and  evergreen,  with  a  great 
variety  of  winter  flowers.  There  were  twenty-two  dozen  head  of 
game,  consisting  of  larks,  snipes,  woodcocks,  teal,  P^ench  and 
English  partridges,  grouse,  widgeons,  wild  ducks,  blackcocks, 
pheasants,  a  leveret,  a  hare,  and  golden  plovers.  The  interstices 
were  lightly  filled  with  wheat  and  oats,  the  whole  ornamented 
with  tri-coloured  ribbon." 

Most  have  heard  of  Soyer's  visit  to  Ireland  in  February  of  the 
year  1847,  and  of  his  praiseworthy  efforts  to  relieve  the  starving 
peasantry ;  also  of  his  model  soup-kitchens,  and  of  his  relief  of 
1,147,278  persons,  and  the  publication  of  his  soup  receipts, 
followed  by  "  The  Poor  Man's  Kegenerator."  And  then  of  his 
famous  sauces  and  "  Relish,"  and  aerial  dish  at  Slough ;  his 
philanthropic  work  in  the  East  of  London,  and  in  the  Crimea, 
where  he  so  ably  assisted  Miss  Florence  Nightingale  in  her 
efforts  to  feed  the  sick  and  wounded.  And  now  we  come  to  the 
last  earthly  scene,  which  occurred  in  his  own  house  at  St.  John's 
Wood,  on  the  night  of  August  5,  1858.  He  was  thus  only  forty- 
nine  years  of  age  when  he  died ;  but  he  commenced  life  so  early, 
and  kept  it  up  so  intensely,  that  it  may  virtually  be  said  he  had 
lived  as  long  again.  It  was  he  who  described  the  difference 
between  a  gourmet  and  gourmand  as  being  much  the  same  as 
that  between  a  gentleman  and  a  common  person. 


862  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

CHARLES  E.  FRANCATELLT,  1805-1876. 

Chaeles  Elme  Francatelli  is  a  name  familiar  to  all.  He  was 
born  in  London  in  1805,  and  appears  to  have  been  at  a  very  early 
date  destined  for  the  kitchen.  His  father  was  of  rather  more 
than  Italian  extraction,  and  christened  him  Charles  Elm6.  At 
a  suitable  age  the  lad  was  sent  to  France  for  his  education. 
Here  he  was  fortunate  enough  to  fall  in  with  Careme,  who  was 
becoming  a  king  in  his  profession. 

It  may  be  said  of  Francatelli  that  he  taught  the  Prince  of 
Wales  to  eat  macaroni,  and  Her  Gracious  Majesty  the  Queen 
to  value  the  flavour  of  pistachio  in  sweets  and  confectionery. 

It  was  this  culinary  artist  who  first  in  this  country  advocated 
the  diner  a  la  Russe,  of  which  he  thus  writes  : — 

"  Few  there  are  who  are  not  apt  to  look  with  a  pleasurable 
anticipation  on  the  culinary  delicacies  before  them ;  but  when 
appetite  is  appeased,  to  continue  inhaling  the  now  no  longer 
agreeable  fumes  of  hacked  fragments  of  even  the  most  perfect 
dishes  is  little  calculated  to  promote  enjoyment ;  whereas  the 
absence  from  table  of  the  more  substantial  fare  is  fully  compen- 
sated by  the  refreshing  elegance  of  an  artistic  display  of  orna- 
mental confectionery,  gorgeous  fruit,  and  lovely  flowers,  which 
form  the  chief  elements  of  a  fashionable  dessert." 

Of  cooking  itself  he  says:  — 

"  Simplicity  is  as  essential  an  element  in  cookery  as  it  is  in 
other  arts.  The  author,  therefore,  particularly  cautions  the  inex- 
perienced practitioner  from  attempting  too  much.  Excess  in  the 
quantity  and  variety  of  spices  and  condiments — the  bane  of 
English  cookery — is  especially  to  be  guarded  against." 

Whether  he  used  "  spices  and  condiments  "  at  all  times  with 
the  discretion  he  publicly  advocates  we  are  unable  to  state,  but 
an  old  chef,  who  was  personally  acquainted  with  Francatelli  in 
his  kitchen  at  the  St.  James's  Hotel,  tells  us  that,  as  the  chef 
there,  he  was  fond  of  highly  flavouring  his  sauces. 

Francatelli  did  not  profess,  so  he  says,  to  cater  for  the  satis- 
faction of  coarse  appetites,  but  rather  to  gratify  refined  tastes. 
And  he  alludes  to  "  Guides  "  and  "  Oracles,"  with  a  decided  hit 
at  Dr.  Kitchiner's  "  Cook's  Oracle,"  in  the  following  amusing 
words : — 

"  Such  attempts,  too  frequently  made  by  English  wi'iters  on 
gastronomy,  at  once  betray  their  origin.  The  greater  part  of 
these  authorities  are  persons  who,  having  neither  studied  the 
rudiments  nor  practised  the  art  to  any  extent,  take  upon  them- 
selves to  instruct  the  public,  not  from  the  fulness  of  their  know- 
ledge, but  either  as  a  pecuniary  resource  or  to  gratify  an  idle 
whim.  Need  it  be  wondered  at,  while  we  possess  in  England  a 
greater  abundance  of  all  kinds  of  food,  generally  of  far  better 
quality  than  is  to  be  found  elsewhere,  that  our  cookery  in  theory 


-J  I^ 


^-^Q    CH.E.FRAN(ATELU    ^Jf^-'- 


FAMOUS  CHEFS  AND  EPICURES        863 

SYid  practice  has  become  a  by-word  of  ridicule,  and  that  we  should 
be  compelled  to  have  recourse  to  foreigners,  ignorant  for  the  most 
part  of  our  tastes  and  habits,  to  prepare  our  feasts," 

The  following  suggestions  that  he  makes  in  one  of  his  books 
are  worthy  of  more  than  a  passing  comment : — 

"  The  English  custom  of  dividing  a  grand  dinner  into  several 
courses  is  an  error  quite  at  variance  with  common  sense  and  con- 
venience. Tt  is  a  needless  complication  that  necessarily  leads  to 
useless  profusion,  and  much  additional  trouble.  Our  neighbours 
across  the  Channel  allow  of  two  courses  only  in  the  largest 
dinners.  With  them  fish  and  hors  d'oeuvres — such  as  patties, 
croquettes,  &c. — form  part  of  the  first  course,  and  not  a  distinct 
course,  as  they  are  considered  east  of  Temple  Bar.  The  French, 
too,  regard  the  dessert  as  a  mere  delassement  after  dinner,  in- 
tended rather  to  propitiate  than  to  thwart  digestion. 

"  I  cannot  refrain  from  alluding  to  an  injudicious  habit  fre- 
quently adopted  at  English  tables — that  of  introducing  sweet 
champagne  in  the  first  course.  This  wine,  from  its  sweetness, 
counteracts  the  flavour  of  savoury  dishes.  Madeira,  sherry,  and 
burgundy  are  better  suited  to  the  first  course,  their  stimulating 
and  generous  qualities  tending  to  assist  digestion. 

"  The  ordinary  practice  in  London  of  serving  turtle  and  veni- 
son indiscriminately,  as  mere  accessories  to  recherche  dinners, 
is,  in  my  opinion,  most  injudicious.  Turtle  and  venison  being 
generally  reckoned  by  us  as  the  best  of  good  cheer,  it  follows 
that,  when  they  form  part  of  a  dinner,  the  removes  and  entrees 
are  comparatively  neglected.  Very  light  entrees  should  always 
be  served  with  these,"  &c. 

Amongst  his  appointments  was  that  of  chef  de  cuisine  to 
the  Earls  of  Chelmsford  and  Dudley,  Lord  Kinnaird,  Sir 
W.  Massey  Stanley,  and  Mr.  Rowland  Errington  of  Melton 
Mowbray,  which  town  is  even  now  famous  for  pork-pies 
made  from  a  recipe  provided  by  him.  He  was  for  a  time 
manager  of  Crockford's  Club,  whence  he  removed  to  the  Eoyal 
Household  as  maitre  d'hotel  and  chief  cook  in  ordinary  to  Her 
Majesty.  He  next  superintended  the  then  flourishing  Coventry 
House  Club,  and  was  for  about  seven  years  chef  to  the  Reform 
Club.  As  manager  of  the  celebrated  Freemasons'  Tavern  he 
did  much  to  ensure  the  exceeding  popularity  of  that  house,  which 
it  has  maintained  to  the  present  day. 

As  an  author  on  cookery  he  has  had  few  equals.  His  first 
work,  '*  The  Modern  Cook,"  appeared  in  1845,  and  ran  through 
twelve  editions.  In  1861  he  produced  "  The  Cook's  Guide  and 
Butler's  Assistant,"  and  shortly  after  a  book  on  "  Cookery  for 
the  Working  Classes."  Next  appeared  his  "  Royal  English  and 
Foreign  Confectionery  Book." 

In  1876  he  departed  this  life  at  the  ripe  age  of  seventy-one. 

55 


864  PRACTICAIi    GASTRONOMY 


ALFRED  SUZANNE. 


Alfeed  Suzanne  was  born  in  Normandy  in  the  year  1829. 
His  father  and  his  grandfather  before  him  were  both  notable 
chefs ;  but  he  was  destined  for  another  sphere  of  life,  and  entered 
upon  his  studies  in  Paris.  Unforeseen  circumstances,  however, 
determined  him  to  abandon  his  collegiate  career  at  the  age  of 
eighteen,  and  embrace  the  calling  of  his  parents ;  and  nowhere 
have  we  a  more  striking  exemplification  of  Darwin's  hereditary 
theorem  than  n  the  case  of  Suzanne,  for,  without  even  a  know- 
ledge of  the  rudiments  of  cookery,  he  confesses  that  he  resolutely 
embraced  his  father's  profession,  and,  student-like,  laid  the 
foundation  of  future  sxiccess  by  a  careful  perusal  of  the  works 
of  the  immortal  Careme,  Brillat-Savarin,  and  the  leading 
authorities  of  the  day  upon  culinary  and  gastronomic  matters. 

With  the  theoretical  information  thus  acquired,  he  com- 
menced his  practical  career  as  an  apprentice  in  the  kitchen  of 
the  Earl  of  Clarendon,  then  Lord  Lieutenant  of  Ireland,  and, 
mirahile  dictu!  at  the  end  of  six  short  months  found  himself 
promoted  to  the  honourable  position  of  head  pastrycook  at 
Dublin  Castle,  a  position  which  he  held  for  a  period  of  four 
years.  From  thence  he  passed  into  the  service  of  the  Earl  of 
Wilton  as  chef  de  cuisine. 

The  '*  wicked  Earl  " — to  give  him  the  name  by  which  he  was 
known  among  his  familiars — was  at  that  time  at  the  zenith  of  his 
fame  as  a  sportsman,  musician,  lady-killer,  and  leader  of  society. 
His  epicurism  was  of  the  first  water,  and  no  man  more  assidu- 
ously studied  his  creature  comforts.  For  the  lengthened  period 
of  twenty-eight  years  M.  Suzanne  ministered  to  the  delights 
of  the  table  at  his  lordship's  generous  board.  On  the  death  of 
Lord  Wilton,  in  1882,  the  Duke  of  Bedford  secured  M.  Suzanne 
as  controller  of  his  kitchen,  and  this  position  he  retained  for 
five  years,  until  indiflierent  health  led  him  to  seek  permanent 
repose  and  the  otiuvi  cum  dignitate  to  which  good  and  even 
brilliant  work  had  entitled  him. 


^(P  ALFPyED    SUZANNE  'J^' 


% 


J 


FAMOUS  CHEFS  AND  EPICURES        865 

In  the  charming  Parisian  suburb  of  Neuilly,  M.  Suzanne  and 
his  amiable  wife  are  now  domiciled,  in  circumstances  which  make 
life  worth  the  living. 

He  is,  however,  by  no  means  idle,  for  he  still  contributes 
valuable  advice  and  instruction  to  the  English  and  French 
catering  journals,  so  that  his  own  countrymen,  as  well  as  those 
on  this  side  of  the  "  silver  streak,"  are  benefited  by  the  useful 
information  he  is  ever  ready  to  give. 

He  is  acknowledged  to  be  a  great  authority  on  culinary 
matters;  and  as  the  author  of  "Egg  Cookery"  he  has  proved 
to  be  one  par  excellence  on  the  treatment  of  eggs,  for  he  describes 
no  fewer  than  two  hundred  ways  of  converting  them  into  dainty 
and  appetising  dishes. 

All  those  who  have  come  into-  contact  with  M.  Suzanne 
are  agreed  that  he  is  one  of  Nature's  gentlemen,  retiring  and 
modest,  even  to  a  fault ;  whilst  amongst  his  canfreres  he  is 
*'  looked  up  to "  with  admiration  and  respect  on  account  of 
his  geniality  and  undoubted  abilities.  In  addition  to  this,  his 
personal  accomplishments  are  of  no  mean  order.  He  excels  as 
a  musician  and  an  artist,  whilst  his  work  as  an  amateur  photo- 
grapher is  worthy  of  the  most  unqualified  praise.  He  has 
indeed  gained  something  like  notoriety  in  this  department, 
having  at  different  times  photographed  such  leading  sports- 
men as  the  Earl  of  Bradford,  the  ill-fated  Marquis  of 
Hastings,  Baron  Rothschild,  Prince  Edward  of  Saxe- Weimar, 
etc.  It  was  Suzanne  who  took  the  portrait  of  Fred  Archer  in 
hi^  hunting-dress,  upon  the  occasion  of  the  visit  of  the  cele- 
brated jockey  to  Melton  Mowbray,  where  the  Wilton  family 
have  their  seat.  This  portrait  was  quite  the  rage  at  the  time, 
and  attained  a  sale  altogether  unlocked  for. 


866  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

EUG]B]NE  POUAED. 

Mr.  Eugene  Pouard  was  born  at  Eugny,  France,  in  May,  1841. 
His  name  is  familiar  to  many  as  a  prominent  member  of  the 
catering  fraternity.  He  is,  liowever,  best  known  as  the  prime 
mover  of  the  first  cookery  exhibition,  held  in  London  in  1885. 
At  an  early  age  Mr.  Pouard  was  apprenticed  to  the  catering 
business  of  Monsieur  Sautereau,  at  Tonnerre,  in  France,  where  he 
"served  his  time"  for  three  years.  Having  gained  a  good 
knowledge  as  cook  and  pastrycook  during  the  time  he  was 
apprenticed,  he  proceeded  to  the  town  of  the  "  grandesc^ne"  for 
cookery,  viz.,  Paris,  where  he  worked  in  several  noted  places, 
and  thus  gained  more  knowledge  in  the  art.  During  the  year.s 
1857  and  1858  he  oflaciated  in  the  kitchens  of  Baron  Borell,  at 
Issue,  near  Mantes.  Anxious  to  gain  still  more  experience,'  he 
resigned  this  position,  and  made  for  the  great  MetropoHs,  where 
he  arrived  in  1860.  His  first  appointment  was  at  the  Guards' 
mess,  Curragh  camp,  Ireland,  where  he  served  as  second  cook,  and 
later  on  as  chef  for  nearly  two  years.  He  next  proceeded  to  take 
up  a  more  responsible  engagement  as  chef  to  the  Guards'  mess  at 
"Windsor,  where  he  remained  till  February  1868.  He  was  next 
appointed  messman  to  the  Brigade  of  Guards  at  the  Tower  of 
London  and  Windsor.  His  success  here  marked  him  out  for 
the  responsible  duties  of  a  caterer,  and  he  was  consequently 
appointed  contractor  to  the  Queen's  guard,  St.  James's  Palace, 
London,  in  1881,  where  he  is  still  acting  in  that  capacity! 
Besides  his  official  duties,  which  he  always  fulfilled  to  the 
satisfaction  of  his  superiors  and  to  the  credit  of  himself,  Mr. 
Pouard  at  all  times  took  a  lively  interest  in  anything  concerning 
the  promotion  of  the  art  of  cookery,  especially  in  the  various 
exhibitions  which  were  held  in  London,  and  he  never  missed  an 
opportunity  of  making  himself  useful.  He  was  president  of  the 
first  cookery  exhibition,  which  took  place  in  1885  ;  and  the  great 
success  which  this  first  venture  obtained  was  mainly  due  to  the 
indefatigable  manner  in  which  he  carried  out  his  duties,  which 
were  rewarded  by  a  splendid  gold  cup,  accompanied  with  an 
illuminated  diploma.  He  was  again  nominated  as  chairman  for 
the  Universal  Cookery  Exhibition  held  in  London  in  1888,  on 
which  occasion  he  introduced  the  now  famous  demonstrations,'and 
lectured  upon  the  delicate  treatment  of  high-class  entrees, 
&c.,  and  showed  the  public  how  to  prepare  good  things  in  the 
most  practical  way.  His  efforts  in  connection  with  this  exhibi- 
tion, as  well  as  with  five  more  that  followed,  were  duly  appre- 
ciated, and  in  return  for  his  honorary  services  he  was  presented 
with  several  illuminated  addresses  and  medals ;  also  with  the 
grand  decoration  of  the  "  Cordon  rouge,"  which  the  Society  of 
that  title  bestowed  upon  him.  M.  Pouard  died  May  19,  1895. 
His  loss  is  felt  by  many,  for  he  was  a  good  friend  to  all  who 
sought  his  help  ;  beloved  and  respected  by  all  who  knew  him,  he 
leaves  a  gap  in  his  professional  career  which  is  being  much  felt. 


r 


I 


•^^C*     EUGENK  POl'A^I)     "Jf 


y 


FAMOUS  CHEFS  AND  EPICURES        867 

ANTOINE  A.  PARMENTIER. 

The  birthplace  of  Antoine  Augustin  Parmentier  is  Mondidier  in 
France,  wJaere  he  was  born  in  1737.  France  owes  much  to  the 
exertions  of  Parmentier  in  introducing  the  potato  as  an  article 
of  diet — one  of  the  most  interesting  chapters  in  the  history  of 
the  human  race.  Parmentier  not  only  introduced  this  edible 
root  into  his  fatherland,  but  he  also  induced  his  countrymen  to 
accept  it  as  a  food,  and  at  the  same  time  taught  them  more 
than  twenty  different  ways  of  preparing  it  for  the  table.  At 
first  people  believed  all  manner  of  evil  things  of  the  tuber. 
Some  alleged  that  it  contained  poison,  whilst  others  would  have 
it  that  it  produced  skin-disease  ;  and  the  general  verdict  was 
that  the  plant  was  only  fit  for  pigs'  food.  The  prejudice  against 
it  even  became  so  strong  that  in  some  of  the  French  provinces 
the  cultivation  of  the  potato  was  forbidden  under  the  threat 
of  heavy  penalties.  Parmentier,  however,  would  not  be  dis- 
couraged by  the  opposition  of  his  detractors;  but,  had  it  not  been 
for  his  great  and  untiring  energy  and  the  protection  of  the 
king,  his  efforts  to  produce  and  popularise  this  edible  root  might 
probably  have  been  in  vain. 

The  king,  Louis  XVI.,  who  professed  much  esteem  for  the 
great  philanthropist,  had  an  interview  with  him.  Parmentier 
lauded  the  virtues  of  the  potato,  explaining  that  it  was  a  most 
nutritious  food,  and  an  excellent  and  economical  substitute  for 
bread.  As  it  happened,  this  was  the  period  of  the  great  famine 
in  France,  and  the  king  was  so  impressed  and  pleased  by  Par- 
mentier's  earnestness,  that  he  there  and  then  conferred  upon 
him  a  title,  the  recipient  appropriately  choosing  for  his  crest  a 
potato  flower.  Furthermore,  the  royal  order  went  forth  that 
fifty  acres  of  uncultivated  land,  called  the  Plaine  des  Sablons, 
should  be  devoted  to  the  cultivation  of  potatoes.  It  is  on  this 
land  that  the  town  of  Neuilly  now  stands. 

Parmentier  planted  the  field  with  potatoes,  and  when  the 
tuber  was  ripe  and  fit  for  digging  he  had  the  place  guarded  by 
gendarmes,  who  ostensibly  withdrew  at  dusk.  As  he  anticipated, 
the  field  was  plundered  during  the  night  by  the  people,  tempted 
by  the  charm  of  forbidden  fruit.  The  taste,  thus  acquired,  spread 
with  amazing  rapidity  amongst  all  classes.  There  was  then  a 
potato  mania,  and  it  is  said  that  at  a  ball  given  at  the  palace  of 
Versailles  the  queen  and  all  the  ladies  were  adorned  with 
potato  blossoms,  whilst  the  king  and  all  the  gentlemen  of  the 
court  wore  the  fiower  as  "button-holes."  The  scientific  and 
medical  notabilities  of  France  were  invited  to  a  potato  banquet, 
at  which  the  favoured  tuber  was  served  cooked  in  thirty-three 
different  ways. 

It  is  an  amazing  fact  that  France,  the  culinary  nation  j!;«?* 
excellence,  ignored  the  existence  of  the  potato  until  the  year 
1787,  whilst  it  was  generally  known  and  appreciated  as    art 


868  PBACTICAL   GASTRONOMY 

article  of  diet  in  England  and  in  Spain  long  before  Parmentier 
was  born.  Sir  Walter  Kaleigh  introduced  it  into  Ireland  from 
Virginia  one  hundred  and  fifty  years  before  the  tuber  made  its 
appearance  in  France.  But  it  made  slow  progress  as  an  edible, 
and  was  grown  as  a  curiosity  for  some  time  before  it  attracted 
the  attention  of  the  English  cultivator  and  consumer. 

Parmentier  died  in  1813  at  the  age  of  seventy-six,  and  was 
interred  at  P^re  La  Chaise  Cemetery.  Pound  the  monument 
erected  to  his  memory  is  formed  a  small  garden,  planted  with 
the  vegetable  he  loved  and  laboured  for  so  much. 

Here  is  the  receipt  for  Parmentier  Potato  Soup,  or 
Potage  Parmentier. 

Peel  a  dozen  potatoes,  slice  and  put  them  in  cold  water. 
Slice  two  onions,  a  head  of  celery,  and  the  white  part  of  two 
leeks.  Put  these  ingredients  in  a  stewpan  with  four  ounces  of 
butter,  and  add  the  potatoes.  Fry  the  whole  for  ten  minutes, 
and  then  moisten  with  two  quarts  of  veal  broth.  Add  three 
cloves,  a  little  salt,  a  bunch  of  parsley,  and  let  simmer  until  the 
vegetables  are  done  ;  then  rub  all  through  a  fine  sieve.  Keturn 
the  pur^e  into  a  stewpan  ;  set  it  on  the  fire  to  boil  slowly ;  if  the 
soup  is  found  too  thick,  add  a  little  broth.  Let  it  simmer  for 
twenty  minutes,  taking  off  the  scum  as  it  rises.  When  ready 
to  serve,  bind  it  with  three  yolks  of  eggs,  diluted  with  a  little 
cream,  and  two  ounces  of  butter  divided  into  small  pieces. 
Throw  into  the  soup  a  little  finely-chopped  and  blanched  chervil, 
and  serve  with  some  small  fried  bread  croutons. 
The  Potato  in  Prance. 

The  Paris  correspondent  of  the  Daily  News  wrote  in  February 
1887  : — "  The  potato  is  not  in  France  that  homely  esculent  that 
it  is  in  the  British  Islands.  There  are  as  many  ways  of  pre- 
paring it  here  as  there  were  in  Goldsmith's  time  of  cooking  a 
nettle  top.  Potatoes  are  only  admitted  en  robe  de  chamhre — that 
is  to  say,  in  their  jackets — to  the  midday  meal,  and  then  on 
unceremonious  occasions.  They  chiefly  figure  at  dejeuners 
intijues,  or  dejeuners  taken  at  restaurants,  where  the  hifteck  aux 
jjommes  and  la  cotelette  a  la  puree  de  i)oinme  de  terre  are  in  great 
favour.  At  popular  banquets,  where  each  one  who  sits  down  to 
table  pays  from  four  to  six  francs  a  head,  the  rosb if  is  sure  to  be 
a  la  Parmentier.  The  centenary  of  the  adoption  of  the  potato 
as  an  article  of  food  is  to  be  celebrated  next  month  at  Mont- 
didier.  There  was  a  universal  prejudice  against  it  in  this 
tolerant  country  until  Parmentier,  the  gardener  of  Louis  XVI., 
got  that  king  to  admit  it  to  the  royal  table.  As  this  happened  in  a 
year  of  famine,  the  potato  soon  after  was  universally  adopted  as  an 
edible.  MM.  Erckmann-Chatrian,  in  one  of  their  patriotic  stories, 
describe  the  effect  produced  by  its  advent  in  Lorraine.  MM.  De 
Lesseps,  Pasteur,  and  Chevreul,  the  oldest  member  of  the  Institute, 
have  promised  to  attend  the  potato  festival  at  Montdidier." 


^-^  ,/''^-^^^ 


^-^^^ 


H' 


C  AXTOINE    PAIV^IKXTIKR  'Jv:^^  ^ 


K^ 


869 


"  LE  CORDON  ROUGE." 

This  is  the  title  of  the  grand  decoration  granted  by  a  society  of 
the  same  name,  and  is  considered  "  the  highest  gastronomic 
order  in  existence."  The  badge  of  the  order  consists  of  a 
beautifully  modelled  white-heart  cherry,  suspended  by  a  cherry- 
red  ribbon.  The  society  is  ruled  by  the  "  Supreme  Don,"  and 
is  supported  by  twelve  "  Senior  Dons."  The  scope  and  aims  of 
the  society  are  most  praiseworthy.  Its  endeavour  is  to  advance 
not  only  high-class  cookery  in  all  its  branches,  but  also  to  instruct 
the  poorer  members  of  the  community  how  they  can  utilise 
available  food  substances  to  the  best  advantage.  They  hope,  in 
time  to  come,  to  form  and  establish  an  "Academic  de  Cuisine  ;  " 
another  scheme  of  theirs  is  to  carry  out  the  erection  of  model 
kitchens  for  instruction  in  practical  cookery. 
The  decoration  of  the  society  is  open  to : — 

1.  Ladies  who  manage  their  own  establishments  and  are 
celebrated  for  the  excellence  of  their  entertainments. 

2.  Cooks  of  both  sexes. 

3.  Chemists. 

4.  Persons  who  have  invented  any  valuable  article  of  food  or 
drink. 

5.  Persons  who  supply  the  same. 

6.  Proprietors  and  managers  of  hotels  and  other  catering 
establishments. 

This  order  is  now  governed  by  six  Dons,  members  of  the 
Universal  Cookery  and  Food  Association,  who,  under  the  guidance 
of  the  Supreme  Don,  watch  over  the  interests  of  the  society  in 
order  to  further  its  objects. 


870  PKACTICAL  GASTRONOMY 


**LE  COEDON  BLEU." 

Le  Cordon  bleu,  or  the  blue  ribbon,  denotes  a  culinary  badge 
of  honour,  known  in  France  as  the  highest  gastronomic  order  of 
merit.  It  consists  of  a  rosette  made  of  dark  blue  ribbon,  and  is 
only  bestowed  on  female  cooks  who  are  celebrated  for  the 
excellence  of  their  cooking. 

Culinary  etymologists  have  not  yet  settled  their  dispute  as  to 
the  precise  derivation  of  the  term  "  Cordon  bleu,"  as  it  is  applied 
to  skilful  women  cooks. 

The  history  of  its  adoption  is  still  a  mystery.  Some  will 
have  it  that  the  eminently  epicurean  monarch  Louis  XV.  was 
so  delighted  with  the  dish  served  up  at  one  of  his  repasts,  under 
the  auspices  of  Madame  Du  Barry,  that  he  proposed  to  decorate 
the  cook  who  had  prepared  the  enjoyable  feast  with  the  blue 
ribbon  of  the  order  of  Saint  Esprit ;  but  it  is  to  be  feared  that 
there  is  not  any  more  authentic  historical  foundation  for  this 
statement  than  there  is  for  the  legend  that  Charles  II.  once 
knighted  a  joint  of  roast  beef,  which  became  then  and  thereafter 
•'  Sir  Loin."  Others  maintain  that  in  the  middle  of  the 
eighteenth  century,  when  restaurants  first  became  popular  in 
Paris,  these  places  of  entertainment  were  frequented  by  attrac- 
tive damsels  in  Alsatian  or  in  Burgundian  costume,  who  wore 
"  Cordons  "  or  scarves  of  different  coloured  ribbons. 

These  fair  Hebes  sang  songs,  played  on  the  flute,  and  sold  fruit 
and  cakes.  One  of  the  most  popular  of  their  number  developed  a 
genius  for  the  culinary  art,  and  descended  to  the  kitchen  to 
cultivate  it.  Her  badge  was  a  ribbon  of  dark  blue  tint,  which 
circumstance  caused  her  to  be  known  as  "  Cordon  bleu."  Be  it 
as  it  may,  the  controversiahsts  on  this  knotty  subject  are  agreed 
on  the  most  essential  point,  viz.,  that  the  "  Cordon  bleu  "  is 
the  culinary  distinction  bestowed  on  very  skilful  women  cooks. 


PAET    IX. 


CULINARY   DICTIONARY 


EXPLANATION   OF 


FRENGH    AND    ENGLISH    W0RDS 

AND 

TERMS    USED    IN    COOKERY 


Gateau  meeingue  a  l'Histoiee. 


Pate  de  Foie-Geas  a  la  Kegence. 


PAET  IX. 
YOCABULAEY  OF  TERMS  USED  IN  COOKERY. 


A. 

Aal,  ^.    Anguille,/.     Eel,  e. 

Abaisse,/.  a  paste  thinly  rolled  out,  used  for  lining  tarts  and 
souffies. 

Abatis,/.  The  head,  neck,  liver,  comb,  kernels,  and  wings  of  a 
bird.     Giblets. 

Abavo.  Name  of  an  Indian  pumpkin,  from  which  a  delicious 
soup  is  prepared. 

Abendmahl,  g.     Souper,  /.     Supper,  e. 

Able,/.  A  fish  of  the  salmon  kind,  but  somewhat  smaller,  found 
on  the  Swedish  coast. 

Ablette,/.     a  very  small  sweet- water  fish,  of  pink  colour. 

Abricot,/.    Apricot,  e. 

Abricote,/.  Candied  apricot,  (?.  Masked  with  apricot  marmalade. 

Absinthe,/.  Name  of  an  aromatic  plant.  Also  that  of  a 
liqueur  prepared  from  this  plant,  consumed  as  an  appetite- 
giving  beverage  in  France  and  Switzerland  ;  sometimes  used 
for  flavouring  purposes. 

AccoLA,  it.     Name  of  a  marinated  fish,  similar  to  tunny-fish. 

AcETO- DOLCE,  U.  (sour  and  sweet).  A  kind  of  Italian  pickles, 
prepared  with  different  kinds  of  fruit,  preserved  in  vinegar 
and  honey,  served  with  meats. 

AcHAJA.     Name  of  a  Greek  wine. 

Admiral.  Name  of  a  hot  drink,  consisting  of  claret  sweetened 
with  sugar,  flavoured  with  vanilla  and  cinnamon,  and 
thickened  with  egg-j^olks. 

Adragan  (gomme),  /  Gum  tragacanth,  e.  Principal  ingre- 
dient used  for  gum  paste. 

Adschempilavi.  Name  of  a  Turkish  dish — pickled  meat  stewed 
with  rice. 

Africaine  (a  l').     African  style. 

Africains,/     Name  of  a  kind  of  French  dessert  biscuits. 

Agneau,/.     Lamb,  e. 

Agro-dolce  Sauce.     A  sweet,  sharp  sauce,  made  with  vinegar, 
sugar,  pine  kernels,  almonds,  chocolate,  and   small  currants 
served  hot. 

Aide  de  cuisine,/.     Undercook,  e. 

AiGRE,/     Aigrette.     Sour,  piquant.     (HornSsh.) 

AiGREFiN,/.     Small  haddock. 

AiGRELE  r,  AiGRE,  AiGRB T.    Sourish,  somewhat  sour,  sharp,  sour. 


874  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

AiGUiLLETTES, /.     Small  Strips  of  cooked  meat. 

Aiguille- A-  Bei  oer,  /.    Larding  needle. 

Ail  (une  gousse  d'ail),/.     Garlic  ;  a  clove  of  garlic,  e. 

Ails,/.     The  wing  of  a  bird.     Fluegel,^. 

Ailerons,/.     Small  wings  of  birds,  pinions  ;  fins  of  some  fish. 

Sometimes  used  for  garnishing  dishes,  or  served  as  ragout. 
AlRELLE  ROUGE,  /     Red  bilberry ;   dark-red  berries  used  for 

compote,  jellies,  and  marmalade. 
Ajoutees,/     To  add  or  mix  ;  also  applied  to  small  garnish  or 

side  dishes  served  with  vegetable  course. 
A  LA,  /.     A  la  mode  de,  after  the  style  or  fashion  of : — a  la 
frangaise,  French  style  ;  a  la  Reine,  Queen  style ;  k  I'lmpera- 
trice.  Empress  style ;  k  la  Russe,  Russian  style,  &c. 
A  LA  BROCHE,/     Roasted  in  front  of  the  fire. 
Albrand,  or  Albrent,/.     Name  applied  in  France  to  young 
wild  ducks;   after  the  month  of   October  they   are   called 
canardeaux,  and  the  month  following  canards. 
Albufera,  /.     A  lake  near  Valencia,  in  Spain.     Title  given  to 
Duke  of  Wellington,  1812.     Dishes  called  after  his  name, 
£l  r,  served  with  a  sharp  brown  sauce  flavoured  with  port 
wine.     Roast  pork,  game,  &c. 
Albumine,/     Albumen  (white  of  Q.gg). 
Alemois,  cresson  d',/.     Small  garden  cress. 
Aliment,/     Food;  nourishment;  meat. 

Allerei,  g.     Name  of  a  German  dish,  consisting  of  stewed  early 
spring  vegetables.     A  kind  of  macedoine  of  vegetables,  prin- 
cipally served  at  Leipsig. 
Allemande,  (a  l').    German  style. 

Allemande,/  a  white  reduced  veloute  sauce,  made  from  veal 
stock,  thickened  with  flour,  cream,  yolk  of  ^gg^  and  seasoned 
with  nutmeg  and  lemon  juice. 
Alliance  (a  la  Ste.),/.  Name  of  a  garnish  for  entrees,  con- 
sisting of  braised  carrots,  artichoke  bottoms,  and  small 
onions. 
Almavica,   \t.      An   Italian   sweet  dish,   similar   to   semolina 

pudding. 
Alose,/     Shad,  e.     A  river  fish,  highly  prized  in  France. 
Alouette,/     Lark,  e.     Small  singing  bird. 
Alouettes  farcies,/.     Stuffed  larks  (boned). 
Aloyau,/     French  word  for  sirloin  of  beef. 
Alsacienne,/     Alsacian  style,  e. 

Alsacienne,/     Alsacian,  e.     Name  of  a  garnish,  consisting  of 
groups  of  sauercrout,  mashed  peas,  slices  of  ham,  and  smoked 
sausages. 
Amalgamer,  /.     To  mix  several  substances. 
Ambigu,  /.    A  meal  where  the  meat  and  sweets  are  served  at 

the  same  time. 
Ameaux,  /    A  kind  of  pastry  made  of  puff  paste  and  eggs. 


VOCABULARY   OF    TERMS   USED   IN    COOKERY.      875 

Amirale  (a  l'),/.  Name  of  a  garnish,  principally  for  fish,  con- 
sisting of  fried  oysters,  sliced  lobster  fillets,  and  brown  sauce. 
Name  also  adopted  for  meat  dishes  and  sweet  entremets. 

Amourettes,  Armourettes.  Marrow  cut  in  strips  and  crumbed. 

Ananas,/.     Pineapple,  e. 

Anchois,/.     Anchovy,  e. 

Ancienne  (al'),/.  Ancient  style.  Name  of  a  garnish,  con- 
sisting of  kidney  beans,  hard-boiled  eggs,  and  braised  cabbage 
lettuces. 

Andalouse  (a  l'),  /,  Andalusian  style.  Name  of  a  garnish 
for  removes  or  entries,  consisting  of  groups  of  spring  cab- 
bage, lettuces,  and  short  pieces  of  fried  sausages,  served  with 
demi-glace  sauce. 

Andouille,/.  Literally,  a  hog's  pudding;  a  kind  of  French 
sausage. 

Andouillettes,  /.  Forcemeat  balls,  e.  A  kind  of  small 
sausages. 

Angelica  is  the  name  of  a  green  fruit  rind  used  in  the  kitchen, 
the  tender  tubular  stems  of  which,  after  being  preserved 
with  sugar,  are  usedforthe  purpose  of  decorating  and  flavour- 
ing sweet  dishes. 

Angelique,/.     Angelica.     Green  fruit  rind  used  for  garnishing. 

Angelot.     a  small  rich  sort  of  cheese  made  in  Germany. 

Anglaise  (a  l').  English  style.  Garnish  for  boiled  meats; 
consists  of  small  suet  dumplings,  boiled  carrots,  and  turnips. 

Angouste  (a  l'),/.  An  American  garnish  for  meat  entrees, 
consisting  of  baked  eggs. 

Anguille,/.     Eel,  e.     A  genus  of  soft-finned  fishes. 

Animelles,/.     Lamb's  fry. 

Aniser,/.     To  strew  over  with  aniseed  ;  to  mix  with  aniseed. 

Anisette,/.     Aniseed  cordial,  e. 

Apt,  /.     Name  of  a  small  French  dessert  apple. 

Appareils,/  Culinary  term  for  prepared  mixtures  ;  a  formal 
preparation. 

Appetissant,/.  Appetising;  something  to  whet  the  appetite; 
relishing. 

Appetissants.  a  hors  d'oeuvres,  consisting  of  stuffed  Spanish 
olives,  dressed  on  little  croiites  of  fried  bread. 

Appetit,/     Appetite,  e.     Hunger  ;  a  desire  for  food. 

Apple,  6".     Pomme,/.    Apfel,  ^. 

Apricot,  e.  Abricot,  /.  Abrikose,  g.  First  introduced  in 
England  about  1562. 

Argenteuille,/.  Name  of  a  county  in  France,  Dep.  Seine- 
Oise,  celebrated  for  asparagus,     ^sperge  d' Argenteuille. 

Ariston  (a  Greek  word).  Breakfast  bit ;  a  kind  of  bread  dipped 
in  wine. 

Arles,  /.  A  town  in  France  (Bouche  du  Rhone),  celebrated  for 
its  sausages.     Saucissons  d' Aries. 


876  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

Aromates,  /.    Vegetable  herbs  as  used  for  flavouring,  such  as 

thyme,  bay-leaves,  tarragon,  &c. 
Aromatiser,  /.  To  flavour  with  spice  or  savoury  herbs.  Aromatic 

seasoning. 
Arome,  /.     Aroma  ;  aromatic  quality. 
Arrowroot,  e.     Fegule  de  Marante,/.    A  tropical  plant  used 

for  thickening  sauces  and  other  culinary  preparations.     It  is 

said  the  Indians  extracted  a  poison  for  their  arrows  from  this 

root,  hence  the  name. 
Artichaut,/.     Artichoke,  e.     Fonds  d" — ,  artichoke  bottoms. 
Artois,  /.      Old  county  of  France  (Pas   de   Calais).      Several 

dishes   are   called   after  this  name.      D'Artoise-feuilletage, 

pastry  with  jam  ;  also  savouries. 
ASPERGES,/.     Asparagus,  e. 
Aspic,/.     Savoury  jelly,  e. 
AssAisoNNE,  /.     Seasoned. 

ASSAISONNEMENT,/.     Seasoning,  condiment,  sauce. 
ASSAISONNER,  /.     To  season,  to  mix. 
AssiETTES,/.  dom.     Small  entries,  not  containing  more  than  a 

plate  will  hold. 
AssiETTE,/.     A  plate.     Une  assiette  propre,  a  clean  plate. 
AssiETTEE,/.     A  plateful,  e. 
AsTRACHAN,  /.     Astracan,  e.     Russian  province.     Name   of    a 

caviare,  the  best  of  its  kind,  exported  from  that  place.     (See 

also  Caviare). 
Atelets,/.  (also  Hatelets).     Small  silver  skewers. 
Athexienne  (a  l'),/.     Athenian  style.     Larded,  braised,  and 

garnished  with  fried  egg-plants,  serve  with  Madere  sauce. 
Attereaux,/.     Small  rounds  of  minced  meat  wrapped  in  pig's 

caul  and  cooked  on  skewers. 
Aubergine.    Egg-plant ;  a  kind  of  small  sweets,  &c. ;  vegetable 

marrow.  Also  the  name  of  a  kind  of  small  Parisian  sweet- 
meat. 
AUBERGISTE,/.      An  inn-keeper ;    hotel-keeper.     A  1'...,   inn- 
keeper's style. 
Au  BLEU,  /.     A  culinary  term  applied  to  fish  boiled  in  water, 

and  white  wine,  flavoured  with  herbs,  &c. 
Au  FOUR,  /.     Baked  in  the  oven. 
Augustine  (a  l'),/.    Austin-nun's  style. 
Au  GRAS,/.     A  French  term  for  meat  dressed  with  rich  gravy 

or  sauce. 
Au  GRATIN,  /.     A  term  applied  to  certain  dishes  prepared  with 

sauce  and  bread  crumbs,  and  baked  in  the  oven ;  served  in 

the  dish  on  which  baked. 
Au  JUS,/.     Meat  dished  with  natural  juice  or  gravy. 
Au  MAIGRE,  /     A  French  word  used  for  dishes  prepared  without 

meat.     Lenten  dishes. 
Au  NATUREL,  /.     Food  cooked  plainly  and  simply. 


VOCABULARY    OF    TERMS    USED    IN    COOKERY.       877 

AUROEE,  /.      A  yellow   colour,   e.     A  culinary  expression  for 

dished  up   high.      A  garnish    consisting   of    stufifed    eggs, 

quartered,  bread  croutons,  and  aurore  sauce. 
AuRORE  SAUCE  consists  of  Allemande  or  B6chamel  and  tomato 

sauce,  flavoured  with  chili  vinegar  and  dice  of  mushrooms. 
AvoiNE,/.     Oats,  (?.     Creme  d'avoine,  cream  of  oats.     Used  for 

soups  and  puddings. 
AvoLA.     Name  of  Sicilian  town  renowned  for  its  sweet  almonds. 


Baba  (from  the  Polish  word  hahka).     A  very  light  yeast  cake 

Substitute  for  tipsy-cake. 
Bacon,  e.     Le  lard,/.     The  sides  of  a  pig,  salted  or  pickled  and 
smoked.      Bacon   smoked,  e ;  /,   du    lard    fume.      Larding 
bacon,  e ;  lard  4piquer. 
Bagration,  /.      A  word  used   for  high-class   dishes   (soups). 

Bagration  was  a  Russian  count,  whose  chief  cook  was  the 
celebrated  A.  Careme. 
Baie  de  Ronce,/.     Blackberry,  e.     The  fruit  of  the  bramble. 
Bain-Marie,/.     The  culinary  water-bath.     It  is  a  large  open 

vessel,  half-filled  with  hot  water,  where  sauces,  &;c.,  are  kept 

so  that  they  are  nearly  at  the  boiling-point  without  burning 

or  reducing. 
Ballotine,  /.     Small  balls  of  meat  or  fowl. 
Banane,/.     Banana,  e.   Fruit   of  the  plantain  tree.      Used  as 

dessert  fruit ;  also  for  creams,  ices,  fritters,  &c. 
Banquet,/.     A  sumptuous  feast ;  an  entertainment  of  eating 

and  drinking. 
Banqueter,/     To  banquet,  to  feast,  to  treat  oneself  with  a 

good  feast. 
Baraquille,  /.     A  large  pie  made  of  rice,  chicken  and  truffles. 
Barbeau,   Barbue,  /     Barbel,  e.     A   coarse  fish,  similar    in 

shape  to  turbot. 
Barbottes  en  Casserole,/.     Stewed  eel-pout,  e. 
Barder,/      To  cover   breasts  of  game  or  poultry  with  thin 

slices  of  bacon  fat. 
Barley,   e.     Orge,  /     Pearl    barley,   orge   monde,  /.     Barley 

bread,  pain  d'orge,  /.     Barley  soup,  creme  d'orge,/.     Barley 

water,  eau  d'orge,/     Barley  sugar,  sucre  d'orge,/ 
Barm.     Yeast,  e.     Levain,/ 
Baron  of  Beef.    A  very  large  joint  of  the  ancient  kitchen.    It 

consists  of  both  sides  of  the  back,  or  a  double  sirloin,  and 

weighs    from  40  to  100  lbs.      It  is  always  roasted,  but  is 

now  rarely  prepared,  except  at  some  festive  occasions  of  the 

English  court,  or  at  some  great  public  entertainment.     It  is 

generally  accompanied  by  a  boar's  head. 
Basil,  e.  Basilic,/  An  aromatic  culinary  herb,  allied  to  thyme. 


878  PRACTICAL   GASTRONOMY 

Basler  Leckerlis,  g^  A  kind  of  dessert  biscuits—  Bale 
delicacy — richly  flavoured  with  honey  and  spice,  called  after 
the  town  of  Bale,  where  they  are  mostly  made.  These 
delicacies  are  to  be  found  at  almost  every  railway  buffet  on 
the  Continent. 
Bass,  <?,  Bar,/,  A  fish  in  season  from  May  till  September. 
Batons    eoyaux,  /.     Small  patties  of  minced  chicken  and 

game ;  the  favourite  dish  of  Charles  XII. 
Batter,  e.    A  mixture  of  several  ingredients  beaten  together. 

Frying  batter — pate  a  frire,/. 
Batterie  de  cuisine,/,    a  complete  set  of  cooking  utensils 

and  pvpparatus. 
Bavaroisb,/.      Bavarian   cream,  e.      A   kind   of   cold   custard 

pudding. 
Bavaroise  a  l'eau,  /.     Tea  flavoured  with  syrup  of  capillaire 

and  orange-flower  water. 
Bearnaise,/.     a  word  much  used  in  cookery  for  a  rich  white 
herb  sauce.     Comes  from  the   word    Beam,     birthplace   of 
King  Henry  IV.,  who  was  a  great  gourmand. 
Becasse,  Becassine,/.     Snipe,  e.     Dolt ;  a  small  marsh  bird. 
Bechamel,/.  *    A  French  white  sauce. 
Beef.  e.     Boeuf,  /.     Boiled  beef — boeuf  bouilli.     Boast  beef — 

bosuf  roti.     Braised  beef — boeuf  braise. 
Beefsteak  Society.    Was  founded  in  London  by  a  John  Rich 

in  1735,  and  lasted  till  1867. 
Beetroot,  e.    Betterave,/.    (See  Betteraye). 
Beignets,/.     Fritters,  e.     Also  a  kind  of  pancake. 
Berlinois,  /.    A  kind  of  light  yeast  cakes  in  the  shape  of  balls ; 

similar  to  dough  nuts. 
Bernard.     Name  of  a  famous  chef  de   cuisine  of  the  present 

time.     "Was  chef  for  many  years  to  the  Emperor  William  I. 
Betterave,/    Beetroot,  e.    A  saccharine  root  used,  when  boiled 

and  pickled,  for  salads  and  garnish. 
Beurre  noir  (Au),  /.     Anything  done  in  brown  butter. 
Beurre  Noisette,  /      Nut-brown  butter,  e.      Butter  melted 

over  the  fire  until  it  begins  to  brown. 
BiFTEK,/.     The  name  given  on  the  Continent  to  fillet  steak  or 

beefsteak. 
Bigarade,/     Bitter  or  sour  orange. 
BiGARURE,/.     Is  the  name  given  to  a  rich  stew  made  from 

pheasants,  capons,  &c. 
Bill  of  Fare,  e.    Menu,/.     First  used  at  table  in  1541. 
Bind,  e.     To  make  a  mixture  and  moisten  it  with  egg,  milk,  or 
cream,  so  that  it  will  hold  together  and  not  crumble  or  curdle. 

*  The  name  is  supposed  to  come  from  Bechameil,  who  was 
an  excellent  chef,  and  invented  this  white  sauce  whilst  in  service 
of  King  Louis  XIV. 


VOCABULARY    OP    TERMS    USED    IN    COOKERY.      879 

Bisque,  /.    Is  the  name  given  to   certain  soups  usually  made 

with  shellfish. 
Blanc,/.     A  white  broth  or  gravy. 
Blanchir,/.     To  blanch,  e.     To  put  anything  on  the  fire  in 

cold  water  until  it  boils ;  then  it  is  strained  and  plunged  into 

cold  water. 
Blanquette,/.     a  stew,  usually  made  of  veal  or  fowl,  with  a 

white  sauce  thickened  with  yolk  of  ^%^. 
Bleak,  e.     Breme,/.     A  small  species  of  river  fish. 
Blonde  de  veau,/.     A  very  rich  veal  broth  used  for  flavouring 

and  enriching  white  soups  and  sauces. 
Boar's  head,  e.     Hure  de  sanglier,/. 
Bceuf,/.     Beef,  e. 
BoMBE,/.     An  ice  filled  with  whipped  sweet  cream,  shape  of  a 

bomb. 
Bon  gou^t,/.     A   much  used   expression    for  highly   flavoured 

dishes  and  sauces. 
BouCHEES,/.     Small  puff  paste  patties. 

BOUDIN,/.     A  kind  of  French  sausage  similar  to  black  pudding. 
Bouillabaisse,  /.    Is  a  kindof  fish  stew.    A  national  French 

dish. 
Bouilli,/.     Fresh  beef  boiled  ;  a  national  French  dish. 
Bouillon,/.     A  plain,  clear  soup. 
Bouquet  garni,  /     A  small  bunch  of  savoury  herbs,  parsley, 

thyme  and  bay-leaves. 
Bouquet  of  herbs.      Green  onions,  parsley  and  thyme  tied 

in  a  bunch. 
Boltrguignote,/     a  ragout  of  truffles.    Usually  served   with 

game. 
Bourguignotte  (a  la),/.     Burgundy  stjde,  e. 
BOURIDE,  /.     A  dish  strongly  flavoured  with  garlic. 
BouRRACHE,  /.     Borage,  e.    Aromatic  kitchen  herb ;  also  called 

cucumber    herb,   because    it   has   the    peculiar    flavour    of 

cucumbers. 
Braisee,  /.     Braised,  e.    Meat  cooked  in  the  oven  in  a  covered 

stewpan,  with  gravy,  vegetables,  and  herbs  put  with  it. 
Braisierb,  /     A  large  stewpan  with  ledges  to  the  lid,  used  for 

braising  meats. 
Bread,  e.     Le  Pain,  /      First  made  with  yeast  in  England  in 

1634. 
Bread  crumbs,  e.    Chapelure,  /.    To  crumb,  from  "  paner  ^  la 

panure." 
Brkakfast,  e.     Dejeuner,/     The  first  meal  in  the  day. 
Break  flour,  e.     To  stir  gradually  into  it  a  cold  liquid  until 

it  becomes  a  smooth  paste. 
Breast,  g.     Poitriue,/     Part  of  an  animal  next  below  the  neck. 
Breme,/     Bleak,  e.    A  small  species  of  river  fish. 
Breton  ne,/.     Brittany  style,  e. 

56 


880  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

Beidee,  f.     To  truss  poultry  and  game    with  a  needle    and 

thread. 
Beignolles,/.     a  species  of  dark-red  cooking  plums. 
Brine,  e.     Marinade,/.     Used  for  the  preservation  of  meat,  (Sec, 

and  to  impart  certain  aromatic  flavours. 
Beinjaul.  West  Indian  egg-plant,  known  in  Bengal  as  Bangou, 

which  name   is   supposed  to   come    from    the    Portuguese 

"  Bringella." 
Beioche,/.     a  light  French  yeast  cake,  similar  to  Bath  buns. 
Beochet,/.     Pike,  ^.     A  fish  to  be  found  in  almost  all  waters; 

much  liked  on  account  of  its  dehcate  flavour, 
Beoth,   e.     Bouillon,  /.      An  unclarified  gravy  soup,  with  or 

without  garnish. 
Beown  meat,  to,  e.     Is  to  place  it  in  a  frying-pan  with  a  small 

quantity  of  fat,  not  turning  it  till  brown. 
Beowned  buttee,  e.     Beurre  noir  (au),/. 
Beunoise,  /.     Several  soups  are  named  h.  la  Brunoise.     Brunois 

is  a  county  in   France,  Seine-et-Oise  department,  celebrated 

for  the  growth  of  fine  spring  vegetables. 
BuiSSON,  /.     A  cluster  or  a  bush  of  shrimps,  crayfish,  or  lobster 

Also  a  method  of  twisting  up  pastry  to  a  point. 
Buent-sugae  coloueing,  e.    Caramel,  /. 
Buest  eice,  e.     Is  to  put  it  to  boil  in  cold  water ;  when  boiling 

the  grains  of  starch  burst. 
Bustaed.     a  large  game-bird. 
Buttee,  e.     Beurre,/.     To  butter  moulds — ^  beurrer  les  moules. 

Saut6  au  beurre — done  in  butter  (tossed).      Butter  was  first 

used   as   a   food   by  the   Hebrews — the    early   Greeks    anl 

Romans  used  it  as  a  medicine  or  ointment. 

O. 

Cabbage,  e.    Choux,  /.      A  well-known  vegetable,  plants  of 

several  species  forming  a  head  in  growing. 
Cabillaud,/     Codfish,  c.  A  sea  fish,  in  season  from  September 

till  end  of  April ;  obtainable  all  the  year. 
Cabillaud  faeci,/.     Stuffed  codfish,  e. 
Cafe,  /.     Coffee,  e.   (the  berry  of  a  tree).     A  coffee-house  or 

restaurant.      A  beverage  prepared  from  the   coffee  berries 

after  they  have  been  roasted  and  ground. 
Cafeine,  e.     A  bitter  substance  obtained  from  coffee. 
Cafe  vierge,/.     An  infusion  of  whole  coffee-beans. 
Caille,  /.     Quail,   e.     A   bird   of    the   grouse   kind.      Cailles 

farcies— stuffed  quails.     Cailles  roties,/. — roast  quails. 
Cake,  e.    Gateau,/. 
Calf's  Beaixs,  e.    Cervelles  de  veau,/. 
Calf's  Eaes,  e.     Oreilles  de  veau,/ 
Calf's  Feet,  e.    Pieds  de  veau,  / 


VOCABULABY   OF   TERMS    USED    IN    COOKERY     881 

Calf's  Head,  e.    Tete  de  veau,  /. 

Calf's  Kidney,  e.     Rognons  de  veau,/. 

Calf's  Liver,  e.     Foie  de  veaa,/. 

Calf's  Sweetbkeads,  e.     Ris  de  veau,/. 

Calf's  Tongue,  e.     Langue  de  veau,/. 

Callipash.     a  portion  of  glutinous  meat  to  be  found  in  the 

upper  shell  of  the  turtle. 
Callipee.     The  glutinous  meat  found  in  the  under  part  of  a 

turtle's  under  shell. 
Cameeain.     Name  of  a  rich  soup  invented  by  an  actor  of  the 

eighteenth  century  of  that  name,  the  jDrice  of  i  he  soup  being 

£6.     The  gastronomic  work,  "  Almanach  des  Gourmands,"  by 

Grimod  de  la  Regniere,  was  dedicated  to  Camerain. 
Canape.    Much  used  for  hors-d'oeuvres  and  savoury  dishes.     The 

word  means  sofa  ;  it  consists  as  a  rule  of  slices  of  bread  cut 

into  various  sizes,  used  plain,  or  fried  in  oil  or  butter,  or  else 

grilled. 
Canard  roti,  /.     Roast  duck.  e. 
Canard  sauvage,/.    Wild  duck,  e. 
Caneton  roti,/.     Roast  duckling,  e. 
Caneton  de  Rouen,  /.     Rouen  duckling.     Rouen  is  celebrated 

for  the  superiority  of  its  ducklings  ;    they  do  not  bleed  them 

as  here,  but  thrust  a  skewer  through  their  brain,  thus  keeping 

the  blood  in  the  flesh. 
Cannelons,/.     Small  rolls  of  pastry  stuffed  with  minced  meat. 
Caper  Sauce,  e.     Sauce  aux  capres,/. 
Capillaire.     a  plant.     A  syrup  flavoured  with  orange-flowers, 

&c. — sirop  de  capillaire. 
Capilotade,/     a  culinar}-  expression  for  a  mixed  hash. 
Caplan.     a  fish  of  the  salmon  family,  resembliog  smelt,  of  very 

delicate  flavour. 
Capon,  e.     Chapon,/     A  young  capon,  (?. — un  chaponneau, /. 
Capsicums,   e.      Poivre   de   Guinee,  /.      A   plant   from   which 

Guinea  or  cayenne  pepper  is  obtained. 
Caramel.    Burnt  sugar  colom-ing. 
Caranates,  /.     A  kind  of  small  shrimps. 
Caebonade,  /.      Name  applied  to   a  kind   of   brown  stew  of 

mutton  or  lamb,  usually  prepared  from  the  loin  part. 
Carcasse,  /.     The  body  of  an  animal ;  the  bones  of  poultry  or 

game. 
Cardamomes,/.      Cardamoms,  e.     A  spice  used  for  flavouring 

meat  and  sweet  di.shes. 
Carde    a    la  moelle,    /.      Pieces   of    marrow  braised   with 

bacon. 
Cardon,  /     Cardoon,  e.    A  garden  plant,  resembling  artichokes 

in  flavour. 
Carelet,  or  Carrelet.  /      Flounder,  e.     A  small  flat  fish,  in 

season  all  the  year  except  in  May,  June,  and  July. 


882  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

Caeeme,  a.    The  name  of  the  celebrated  chef,  born  in  Paris  in 

1784,  d.  1833 ;  author    of    several  culinary    works,  chef  to 

the  Prince  Regent,  George  IV.  of  England,  and  the  Emperor 

Alexander  I.  of  Russia. 

Cakmine.     Crimson  colouring  used  in  confectionery,  &c. 

Caeottes,  /.      Carrots,   e.      A  garden    plant    (red  or  yellow 

coloured). 
Carp,  e.     Carpe,/.     An  excellent  pond  or  river  fish,  obtainable 

all  the  year  round. 

Carre,/.     Neck,  e.     The  rib  part  of  veal,  mutton,  lamb  or  pork. 

Carrots    were    first    introduced    into    England    by   Flemish 

gardeners   in  the  time  of  Elizabeth,  and  in  the    reign  of 

James    I.  they  were   still   so  uncommon   that  ladies  wore 

bunches  of  them  on  their  hats  and  on  their  sleeves,  instead 

of  feathers. 

Carve,  e.     Decouper,  or  Decouper  a  table,/.     To  cut  poultry  or 

game  into  joints ;  to  cut  up  meat  into  slices,  &c. 
Caseine,  e.     The  coagulated  substance  (flesh-forming)  of  milk 
and   certain  leguminous   plants.      The    curd   of   milk   from 
which  cheese  is  produced.     Cheese  is  therefore  an  important 
flesh-forming  food  in  a  concentrated  form. 
Casha.     An  Indian  dish,  made  with  maize  and  cream. 
Casserole,/.  A  copper  stewpan.    When  used  in  menus,  it  indi- 
cates the  form  of  rice,  or  macaroni,  filled  with  minced  meat, 
game  puree,  &c. 
Cassis,  /.     The  part  which  is  attached  to  the  tail  end  of  a  loin 

of  veal ;  also,  black  currant  syrup  or  liqueur. 
Caudle,  e.     A  drink  made  of  gruel,  milk,  and  raw  beaten  eggs, 
flavoured  with  sugar,  lemon,  nutmeg,  and  other  spices.     A 
favourite  drink  for  invalids. 
Caul,  e.      A  membrane  in  the  shape  of  a  net   covering    the 
lower  portion  of  a  pig's  bowels,  used  for  wrapping  up  minced 
meat,  sausages,  salpicon,  &c. 
Cauliflower,  e.     Chou-fleur,/.    A  delicate  and  highly -prized 

vegetable  of  the  cabbage  family. 
Caviar,  /      Caviare,   e.      The  salted  roe    of    sturgeon    (fish 

eggs). 
Cayenne  Pepper,  e.     Poivre  de  Guinee,  or  piment  de  Guinee, 
/.     An  extremely  pungent,  aromatic  condiment  ;  it  consists 
of  the  ground  seeds  of  a  species  of  capsicum  of  a  red  colour. 
It  is  also  imported  in  pods  known  as   chillies.     A  similar 
kind  of  condiment  is  known  as  Guinea  pepper,  which  grows 
in  East  India,  and  is   even  more  pungent  than  the  former. 
F)Oth  are  grown  in  England,  and  are  used  for  pickles,  &c. 
Celeriac,  e.     A  species  of  the  celery  plant.     A  turnip-rooted 
celery,  of  which  the  bulb  only  is  used;  usually  served  as  a 
vegetable,  stewed  in  broth. 
.Celerik,/.     a  kind  of  pilchard. 


VOCABULARY   OF    TEHMS    USED    IN    COOKERY      883 

Celery,  e.  Celeri,  /,  A  salad  plant,  eaten  raw  or  dressed 
as  salad.  (Jooked,  it  is  served  in  various  ways,  as  a 
vegetable  or  in  soups. 

Celestin.  a  monk  so  named  after  Pope  Celestin.  A  la 
Celestine,  /,  from  the  Latin  caelestis  (heavenly).  Several 
dishes  are  called  after  this  name. 

Cendre  (la),  /.  Ashes  or  embers,  e.  Cuit  sous  la  cendre, 
cooked  under  the  ashes. 

Cepe,/.  Cepe,  e.  Esculent  boletus,  an  edible  mushroom,  of 
yellowish  colour,  having  an  agreeable  and  nutty  flavour, 
largely  cultivated  at  Bordeaux. 

Cercelle,  Sarcelle,/.  Teal,  e.  A  small  waterfowl  allied  to 
the  duck. 

Cerp,/.     Deer,  stag,  hart.     Quadruped  kept  for  venison. 

Cerfeuil,/.  Chervil,  p.  An  aromatic  garden  herb  plant,  the 
leaves  of  which  form  an  excellent  adjunct  to  salads,  soups, 
sauces,  &c.  Its  Havour  resembles  a  mixture  of  fennel  and 
parsley.     The  root  of  this  herb  is  poisonous. 

Cerise  (la),  /.  Cherry,  e.  A  small  stone  fruit  of  many 
varieties.  Cherries  were  known  in  Asia  as  far  back  as  the 
17th  century.  Pliny  states  that  Lucullus  first  brought  this 
fruit  to  Italy  about  70  years  before  the  Christian  Era,  and 
records  that  the  Romans  afterwards  introduced  the  cherry- 
tree  into  Great  Britain.  The  name  is  derived  from  Kerasos 
(Cerasus),  a  town  in  Asia  Minor. 

Cerneau,/.  The  kernel  of  a  green  walnut,  e.  Usually  pre- 
pared in  salt-water.  A  red  wine  is  also  made  from  these 
kernels,  called  vin  de  cerneaux,  which  is  to  be  drunk  in  the 
walnut  season, 

Cerneaux  CONFITS./.    Preserved  green  walnuts. 

Cervelle,  /.  Brain,  e.  A  substance  vnthin  the  skull  of  an 
animal.  Veal,  lamb,  pork,  and  beef  brains  are  used  in 
cookery. 

Champignons./.     Mushrooms,  e.     A  plant  of  the  Fungi. 

ChapeluRE, /.     Dried  bread  crumbs  passed  through  a  sieve. 

Chapon,  /.  Capon ;  also  a  piece  of  bread  boiled  in  soups ; 
a  crust  of  bread  rubbed  with  garlic. 

Charcuterie,/.  The  word  means  roughly  slashed;  but  in  a 
culinary  sense  it  denotes  "  pretty  tiny  kickshaws  "  of  pork, 
which  are  prepared  in  many  different  fashions.  Black 
pudding,  pig's  feet  truffled,  smoked  pig's  ear  with  truffles, 
Nancy  chitterlings,  saveloy,  pig's  liver — are  all  items  of 
charcuterie. 

Charlotte,  /.  Consists  usually  of  thin  slices  of  bread  or 
biscuits,  steeped  in  clarified  butter  and  sugar,  and  laid  out 
in  plain  moulds  in  a  symmetrical  order,  after  which  they 
are  garnished  with  cream,  fruit  or  preserve.  Christian  name 
of  the  queen  of  "  Farmer  George." 


884  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

Chartreuse.  Various  kinds  of  vegetables  or  fruit,  dished  up 
in  the  shape  of  goblets. 

Chataigne,/.     Chestnut,  e.  Used  for  stuffing  and  sweet  dishes. 

Chateaubriand.  Name  of  Viscount  Francois  Auguste,  a  great 
French  gourmand,  born  in  1769,  d.  1848.  A  favourite  dish  of 
fillet  steak  is  called  after  him. 

Chaudeau,/.     a  sweet  sauce  served  \\nth  puddings,  &c. 

Chaudfroid,/.  a  name  for  dishes  which  are  prepared  hot  and 
eaten  when  cold,  usually  garnished  with  savoury  jelly  and 
truffles. 

Chaussons,  /.     A  kind  of  French  round  flat  pies  filled  with  jam. 

Cheese,  e.  Fromage,/.  The  curd  of  milk  coagulated  and 
pressed.  As  a  food  it  possesses  very  distinct  nutritive  pro- 
perties, and  forms  the  principal  nitrogenous  food  of  many 
labouring  people.  Its  principal  element  is  caseine,  which  is 
the  chemical  equivalent  of  the  white  of  egg,  gluten  of  wheat, 
and  the  fibrin  of  meat.  New  cheese,  although  nutritious,  is 
not  easy  of  digestion.  Old  cheese  is  said  to  promote 
digestion. 

Cheesecake,  e.  Talmouse,  f.  A  pastry  ;  tartlets  of  a  very  light 
and  flaky  crust,  with  a  mixture  of  cheese,  curd,  or  almond, 
&c  ,  in  the  centre. 

Chef  de  Cuisine,/.     Chief  of  the  kitchen  ;  head  cook. 

Cherry,  e.  Cerise,/.  The  fruit  of  the  cherry  tree.  Some  300 
diif erent  varieties  of  this  fruit  are  now  known,  of  which  the 
black  or  Morella  (^guigne)  is  the  best  for  cooking  purposes. 
The  white-heart  cherry  {Bigarreaii)  is  the  best  of  dessert 
cherries.     (See  also  Cerise.) 

Chestnut,  e.  Marron  or  chataigne,/.  Named  after  the  town  of 
Castanea,  in  Thessaly.  A  nutritious  and  easily-digestible 
fruit ;  used  as  stuffing  for  turkeys,  poulards,  and  capons,  also 
as  an  ingredient  in  soups,  sauces,  and  purees.  As  a  sweet  or 
dessert  it  is  also  used  in  various  ways,  Chestnuts  were  a 
favourite  food  among  the  ancient  Greeks. 

Chevanne,/.     Chub,  e.    A  sweet-water  fish. 

Chevreuil,  /     Koebuck,  roe-deer,  e. 

Chevreuse,  /    Small  goose  liver  tartlets. 

Chicoree,/  Succory,  endive  e.  Used  for  salads,  and  as 
a  vegetable. 

Chiffonnade,  f.     Soup  herb  leaves. 

Chine  of  Pork.  Echine  de  pore,/.  Consists  of  the  two  hind 
loins  left  undivided,  and  cooked  whole. 

Chinois,/.  a  pointed  strainer  with  ver}'  fine  holes,  used  for 
straining  soups,  sauces,  and  gravies.     A  Chinese  fruit. 

Chipolata.     Small  Italian  sausages. 

Chocolate,  e.  Chocolat,  /.  The  beans  of  the  Theobroma 
cocoa  tree  infused  by  process  of  manufacture  and  made  into 
paste,  cake,  or  pow^der.      The  cocoa  tree  is  a  native  of  the 


vocAjBulary  of  terms  used  in  cookery     885 

West  Indies  and  South  America.  The  cocoa  or  cocao  bean 
was  held  as  a  symbol  of  hospitality  by  the  Siamese,  In 
olden  times  it  served  as  a  current  coin  in  Jucetan  ;  while 
chocolate  has  been  known  as  a  favourite  beverage  as  long  as 
400  years.  Introduced  into  England  in  1520  from  Mexico, 
and  sold  in  London  coffee-houses  in  1650. 

Chou,/.  Cabbage,  <9.  Chou  blanc,/.,  white  cabbage,  e.  Chou 
vert,  /.,  green  cabbage,  e.  Chou  rouge,  /.,  red  cabbage,  e. 
Chou  farci,  /.,  stuffed  cabbage,  e.  Chou  de  Bruxelles,  /., 
Brussels  sprouts,  e. 

Choux-fleue,/.     Cauliflower,  e.     A  delicate  species  of  cabbage. 

Choux-Raves,  /.  Kohl-Rabis,  e.  A  turnip-rooted  cabbage. 
Most  excellent  as  a  vegetable,  but  as  yet  very  little  known 
in  this  country.  It  is  a  favourite  vegetable  in  the  United 
States,  Germany,  and  Switzerland. 

Chowder,  e.  A  dish  of  American  origin.  It  consists  of  boiled 
pickled  pork,  cut  in  slices,  fried  onions,  slices  of  turbot  or 
other  fish,  and  mashed  potatoes,  all  placed  alternately  in  a 
stew  pan,  seasoned  with  spices  and  herbs,  claret,  and  ketchup, 
and  simmered. 

Chub,  ^.  Chevanne,/.  A  sweet- water  fish  resembling  the  carp. 
Very  little  used  for  cooking  purposes,  it  being  exceedingly 
bony. 

Ciboulette,/.     Small  green  onions;  chives. 

Citron,  /.     Lemon,  e.  Citronate  ;  candied  lemon  peel. 

CiTRONNE,  /.  Anything  which  has  the  taste  or  flavour  of 
lemon. 

CiTROUiLLE,/.     Vegetable-marrow  or  pumpkin. 

Civet.     A  brown  stew  of  hare,  venison,  or  other  game. 

CiVETTES,  /.     Chives,  e.    Flavouring  herb  for  soups  and  salads. 

Clams,  e.  A  bivalvular  shell-fish  highly  prized  in  the  United 
States. 

Clarification,/.  An  operation  which  is  so  termed  when  any 
liquid  is  clarified.  For  the  clarification  of  consommes  and 
savoury  jellies,  finely  minced  raw  meat  and  eggs  and  water 
are  used ;  whilst  for  sweet  jellies,  whites  of  Qgg  and  lemon 
juice  are  used  for  that  purpose. 

Clarifier.     To  clarify. 

Clear  soup,  e.     Consomme,/. 

Clouter,  /.  To  insert  nail-shaped  pieces  of  trufHe,  bacon,  or 
tongue  into  fowl,  poulards,  cushions  of  veal,  and  sweet- 
breads. The  holes  to  receive  them  are  made  by  means  of  a 
skewer. 

Coca.  Koka.  A  stimulating  narcotic — a  tonic  and  restorative — 
taken  along  with  or  after  food.  Coca  wine  has  of  late  years 
come  prominentl}-  into  pubhc  use. 

Cochineal.  A  liquid  colouring  substance  used  for  colouring 
creams,  sauces,  icing,  &c.    It  is  obtained  from  insects  known 


886  PRACTICAL  GASTRONOMY 

as  coccus,  indigenous  to  Mexico  and  Guatemala.    The  insects 
are  dried  in  an  oven  heated  to  150  degrees  of  Fahrenheit. 
It  requires  70,000  insects  to  produce  a  pound  of  dye. 
CocHON  DE  LAIT,/.     Sucking  pig,  e. 
Cock's  Combs,  e.     Cretes  de  coq,/.      Used  for  garnishing  rich 

ragouts. 
COCK-A-LEEKIE,  e.     A  soup  made  of  leeks  and  fowls. 
Codfish,  e.     Cabillaud,/.     A  sea  fish. 
Coffee,  e.     Cafe,/.     The   berry  of  a  shrub ;  a  beverage  made 

from  the  berries  when  roasted  and  ground. 
CoiNG,/.      Quince,  e.    A  fruit  used  for  compote  and  marmalade. 
Colbert,  /.     A  French  clear  soup,  named  after  John  Baptiste 
Colbeit,  a  clever  statesmen  under  the  reign  of  Louis  XIV.  of 
France,  1619—1683. 
Compiegne,  /.      A  light  yeast    cake  with  crystallised    fruit. 
Also  name  of    the    French  castle  built  by  Louis   XIV.   of 
France. 
Compote,  /.     Stew  of  small  birds  ;  fruits  stewed  in  syrup. 
CoxcASSER,  /.     Coarsely  pounded. 
CONCOMBRE,/.     Cucumber,  e. 

CONDE.     Name  of  an  old  French  family.     Prince  Louis  de  Conde, 
1621-1686,  was  a  famous  field-marshal.     Several  soups  and 
entrees  are  styled  "  ^  la  Conde." 
Condiments.     Highly  flavoured  seasoning,  spices,  &;c. 
CONFIT,  /.     Preserved  in  sugar. 
Confiture,  /.     Fruit  jams.     Also   sweetmeats   of    sugar   and 

fruits. 
Consomme,  /.     Clear  gravy  soup.     The  clarified  liquor  in  which 
meat  or  poultry  has  been    boiled   or   the    liquor   from   the 
stock-pot  clarified. 
Coq  de  bruyere,/.     Woodcock.     A  bird  allied  to  the  snipe. 
COQUILLES,  /.     Light  fish  or  meat  entrees,  served  in  shells. 
Cordon  bleu.     Is  a  high  distinction  applied  to  very  skilful 

female  cooks  in  France.     See  page  870. 
Cordon  ROUGE.     Is  a  high  distinction,  granted  by  an  English 
society  of  the  same  title  to  skilful  cooks  of  both  sexes,  and 
to  others  who  are  celebrated  for  the  invention  of  valuable 
articles  of  food  or  drink      The  badge  of  the  order  consists  of 
a  modelled  white-heart  cherry,  suspended  by  a  cherry-red' 
ribbon.     See  page  869. 
Core,  e.     To  core  an  apple  or  pear  is  to  remove  the  heart,  which 
can  be  done  when  whole  with  a  corer,  and  when  in  quarters 
with  a  knife. 
CoTELETTES,/.    Cutlets.    Small  slices  of  meat  cut  from  the  neck 
of  veal,  mutton,  lamb,  or  pork.     Also  thin  slices  of  meat  from 
other  parts. 
CouLiBiAC.      Kame    of   a  Russian  dish — a   kind   of  fish-cake 
mixture  v-Tapped  up  in  Brioche  paste  and  baked. 


VOCABULARY    OF    TERMS    USED    IN    COOIvERY       887 

COULIS,  /.     A  smooth  sauce,  highly  but   delicately  flavoured, 

used  for  soups  and  entrees.  Also  the  name  of  a  sweet  cream. 
CouRONNE,  /.     Crown,  e.   En  couronne,  to  dish  up  any  prepared 

articles  in  the  form  of  a  crown. 
COUTISER,/.     To  insert  small  strips  or  pieces  of  truffle,  ham, 

bacon,  &c.,  into  fillets  of  fish,  poultry,  or  game,  the  holes  to 

receive  them  being  previously  made   with   the  point  of  a 

skewer.  When  small  scallops  of  truffles,  smoked  tongue,  ham, 

&c.,  are  inlaid  as  garnish  or  ornament,  by  incision,  in  fillets 

of  any  kind,  they  are  said  to  be  coutises. 
Court-bouillon,  /.     Name  given  to  a  broth  in  which  fish  has 

been  boiled  ;  a  highly-seasoned  fish  stock. 
Craquelins,  /.     Cracknels,  e.    A  kind  of  milk  biscuits. 
Crepes,/.     French  pancakes,  e. 
Cretes,/.     Giblets  of  poultry  or  game. 
Cretes  de  coq,/.     Cock's  combs,  <9.     Used  for  garnishing  rich 

ragouts. 
Crevette,/.     Prawn;  shrimp,^.     A  sea-shell  fish. 
Croissant,  /.     Half-moon-shaped  fancy  bread. 
Croquantes,/.     a  transparent  mixture  of  various  kinds  of  fruit 

and  boiled  sugar. 
Croque-en-bouche,/.  Is  the  name  given  to  large  set  pieces  iot 

suppers  or  dinners,  such  as  nongat,  iced  cakes,  fruits,  which 

are  covered  with  boiled  sugar  so  as  to  give  them  a  brilliant 

appearance.     The  real  meaning  of  the  word  is  "  crackle  in 

the  mouth." 
Croquettes,  /.     Savoury  mince  of  fowl,  meat  or  fish,  prepared 

with  sauce,  shaped  to  fancy  ;  generally  egged,  crumbed  and 

fried  crisp. 
Croquignolles,/.     a  kind  of  fondant  (petits  four)  of  the  same 

composition  as  croque-en-bouche. 
Croustades,  /.     Shapes  of  bread  fried,  or  baked  paste  crusts, 

used  for  serving  game,  minces,  or  meats  upon. 
Crou^tons,  /.     Thin  slices  of  bread  cut  into  shapes  and  fried, 

used  for  garnishing  dishes. 
Cr6uts-au-Pot,  /.     Beef  broth,  e.     A  favourite  dish  of  France 

which  has  been  famed  for  several  centuries. 
Cru,  -e,  /.     Raw,  e. 
Cubet,  Pierre.     Name  of  a  celebrated  chef  to  the  Emperor 

Alexander  II.  of  Russia.     His  cooking  was  such  a  triumph 

that  he  received  so  much  a  head  to  prepare  the  Emperor's 

meals,  no  matter  how  large  the  number. 
Cuilleres    de    cuisine,  /.      Are  wooden  spoons.     The  use  of 

wooden  spoons  is  strongly  recommended  instead  of   metal 

spoons,  especially  for  stirring  sauces.  The  latter  often  contain 

certain  acids  which  produce  a  black  colour. 
Cuisine,  /.     Kitchen,     Cookery.     Faire  la  cuisine,  to  cook  or  to 

dress  victuals. 


888  PRACTICAL    GASTRONO^klY 

CuisixiER,  /.     A  cook  who  prepares  and  dresses  food, 
CuissE,/.     Lesr,  e.     Cuisse  de  volaille,  leg  of  chicken  or  fowl. 
CuissON,  /.    A  method  of  boiling  meat.      It  is  finished  off  by 

cooking  in  its  own  juice  whilst  in  an  oven. 
CuissoT.     The  haunch.      Cuissot  de  veau,  cuissot  de  cochon, 

cuissot  de  boeuf,  &c. 
CuLiNAiRE,  /.      This  is  applied  to  anything  in  connection  with 

the  kitchen,  or  the  art  of  cooking.     A  good  cook  is  called 

"  un  artiste  culinaire." 
Curry,    from   the    Hindoo    word   Jiluira    (palatable,   eatable). 

Kari,/.     An  Indian  condiment ;    a  stew  of  meat,  fish  or  fowl ; 

a  sharp  spiced  sauce. 

D. 

Dariole,  /.  A  kind  of  small  entree  pates,  composed  of  a  com- 
pound of  forcemeat  or  mince,  baked  or  steamed  in  small 
moulds.  Certain  small  tarts  are  also  so  called.  The  name 
usually  applies  to  the  shape  of  the  moulds.  Also  some  kinds 
of  cheesecakes  are  called  darioles.  Kettner  asserts  that  a 
dariole  means  something  made  of  milk.  Origin  of  the  word 
unknown. 

Darxe,/.     The  middle  cut  of  large  fish,  salmon  or  cod. 

D'Artois,/.     a  kind  of  French  pastry  (puff  paste  and  jam). 

Daube,/.     Meats  or  poultry  stewed. 

Daubiere,/.     An  oval-shaped  stewpan. 

Dauphine,  /.  A  style  of  garnish  ;  also  name  of  a  kind  of 
dough-nuts,  beignets,  &c.  Known  in  Germany  as  Berliner 
Pfannkuchen. 

Debrider,  /.  To  remove  the  strings  or  skewers  from  a  piece  of 
meat  or  bird. 

Decanter,  /.  To  decant ;  to  pour  a  liquor  which  has  a  sedi- 
ment gently  into  another  receptacle. 

Deer,  e.     Cerf,/. 

Degraisser,  /.     To  take  off  the  grease  from  soups,  etc. 

Dejeuner,/.     Breakfast,  (3.   The  first  meal  of  the  day. 

Dejeuner  a  la  fourchette,/.   A  meat  breakfast  or  luncheon. 

Demi-deuil  (en),/,  a  culinary  expression.  When  white  meats, 
such  as  veal,  sweetbreads,  or  fowl,  are  larded  with  truffles, 
they  are  called  "  en  demi-deuil."  The  meaning  is  "  half- 
mourning." 

Demidoff,/  Name  of  a  Russian  nobleman.  Several  dishes 
are  introduced  by  this  name. 

Demi-glace,/  Name  of  a  brown  sauce  ;  also  of  a  cream  ice 
much  served  in  Paris. 

Des,  /.     Discs,  e. 

Desosser,  f.  To  bone  ;  to  remove  the  bones  from  meat,  poultry, 
or  game. 


VOCABULARY    OF    TERMS    USED    IN    COOKERY       889 

Dessecher,  /.     To  stir  a  puree,  pulp,  or  paste  with  a  wooden 

spoon  whilst  it  is  on  the  fire,  until  it  becomes  loosened  from 

the  pan. 
Dessert.    The  remains  of  a  meal. 
Devilled,  e.    A  la  diable,/. 
DiABLE,/.     Stands  for  "  devil."    Is  applied  to  dishes  with  sharp 

and  hot  seasoning. 
Dill,  e.    A  hardy  biennial  plant,  possessing  powerful  flavouring 

properties  ;  used  in  salads  and  soups. 
DiNDE,  DiNDON,/.     Turkey,  e. 
Diner,  /.      Dinner,  e.      "  L'heure  du  diner,"  dinner  hour,  in 

Henry  VIII. 's  time  was  at  11  A.M. 
Dormant,  or  Surtout  de  table,/.     Decorative  objects  which 

are  left  on  the  table  to  the  end  of  a  meal. 
Dorure  (Dorer),  f.     Yolks  of  ^^^  beaten,  used  for  brushing 

over  pastry,  etc, 
Doucette,/.     Name  given  to  corn  salad. 
Drawn  Butter,  c.     Beurre  fondu,/.     Melted  butter,  sometimes 

served  as  sauce. 
Dubois.     Name  of  a  clever  chef  de  cuisine  of  the  present  time, 

Urbain  Dubois,  author  of  "  La  Cuisine  Classique,"  &c.  ;  late 

chef  to  the  German  Emperor  William  I. 
Duck,   e.     Canard,/.     Duckling,  caneton;   wild  duck,  canard 

sauvage. 
Dumas.     Name    of  a   famous    French    author,    editor    of    the 

"  Dictionnaire  de  Cuisine."     Alexandre   Dumas,  b.   1803,  d. 

1870. 
Duxelles,  /.     Is  the  name  given   to   a   mixture  of  chopped 

mushrooms,    shallots,    parsley,    &;c. ;     used     for    flavouring 

sauces,  purees,  &c. 

E. 

Eaude  fleur  d'oranger,/.     Orange-flower  essence. 

E barber,/     To  remove  the  exterior  parts  of  a  piece  of  meat  or 

fish. 
E  bullition,  /    A  liquid  which  is  on  the  boiling  point.    Chauffer 

a  V ebullition  means  heated  until  boiling. 
ECHALOTE,  f.    Shallot,  e.     Is  a  kind  of    mild  onion  used  for 

seasoning  soups  and  made  dishes  ;  also  for  flavouring  sauces 

and  salads. 
ECHAUDER,/     To  steep  in  boiling  water.     This  is  often  done 

with  fowls  or  game,  as  it  will  facilitate  the  removing  of 

the  feathers  or  hair. 
Eclair,  /.    A  French  pastry  filled  with  cream. 
EcossAiSE  (a  l'),/     Scotch  style. 
Eel,  <9.     Anguille./    A  very  nutritious  fish. 
Egg,  e.     (Euf,  /     An  important  article  of  food. 


890  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

Egg-nogg,  e.     An  American  drink. 

Egg-plant,  <9.     Aubergine,/.     A  vegetable. 

Ekneck  kataif,  t.     A  Turkish  meal  porridge. 

Elmassia,  t.     A  Turkish  dish,  made  from  calves'  feet. 

Emince,/.     Sliced  or  shred. 

Emondee,/.     When  almonds  are  steeped  in  boiling  water  in 

order  to  peel  them,  the  French  say  "  on  les  §monde." 
Entrecote,  /.     French  name  for  a  steak  cut  from  the  middle 

part  of  the  rib  of  beef.     A  rib-steak. 
Entree,  /.     A  course  of   dishes,   or  corner  dish   for  the  first 

courses. 
Entremets,  /.     Dainty  dishes  of  vegetables  or  sweets  served 

between  or  after  the  principal  courses. 
Enveloppe,/.     Enclosed,  enveloped. 
Epice,/.     Spice,  e.     Aromatic  plants  or  their  seeds. 
Epicure,/.     One  addicted  to  the  luxury  of  eating  and  drinking. 
Epigrammes,  /      Verbally,  a  short  pointed  poem.     Used  as  a 

culinary  term  for  small  fillets  of  poultry  and  game  and  lamb, 

prepared  as  entrees.      Alternate   cutlets   of   the  neck  and 

breast. 
Epinard,/    Spinach,  e.     A  Persian  plant. 
Escalope,/     Thin,  round  steaks  of  veal  called  "  coUops." 
Escargot,/     Edible  vinej^ard  snail. 
EscAROLE,/     Name  given  to  broad-leaved  endive. 
EsPAGNOLE,  /     A  rich  brown  sauce,  the  foundation  of  nearly 

all  brown  sauces.     Essence,  the  virtue  extracted  from  any 

food  substance. 
ESTOUFFADE,/.  (or  Etuvee).    Expression  for  a  way  of  cooking 

meats  slowly  in  a  covered  stewpan. 
ESTOURGEON,  /.    Sturgeon,  e.     A  very  large  fish,  usually  salted 

and  smoked. 
ESTRAGON,  /     Tarragon  (flavouring  herb). 
Etouffe,/.     (Stoved).     Stewed  in  the  oven. 
ExPRiMER,/     To  squeeze  the  juice  out  of  fruit. 

F. 

Fagot.  A  small  bunch  of  parsley  and  savoury  herbs.  A  com- 
bination of  culinary  herbs. 

Faire  revenir,  /  A  term  often  used  in  French  cookery- 
books  ;  its  meaning  is  to  partly  fry,  meat  or  vegetables  being 
slightly  browned  without  actually  cooking  them. 

Faisan,/     Pheasant,  e. 

Fanchonnettes/.     Small  custard  tartlets. 

Farce,/     Forcemeat  or  stuffing. 

Fa  ubonne,/  a  vegetable  puree  soup,  seasoned  with  savoury  herbs. 

Faux  (false).  Used  in  "  potage  a  la  fausse  tortue"  (mock-turtle 
soup). 

Fecule,  /.     A  fine  flour  used  for  binding  soups  and  sauces. 


VOCABULAKY    OF    TERMS    USED    IN    COOKERY      891 

Fennel,  e.     Fenouil,  /.     An  aromatic  plant,  generally  used  in 

fish  sauces,  blanched  and  chopped. 
Fermiere  (a  la),/.     Farmhouse  style. 
Feuillage,/.     Leaves,  e. 
Feuilletage,/.     Puff  paste. 
FiDELiNi,  it.     A  kind  of  straight  vermicelli  paste. 
Fieldfare,  e.    Thrush.     Grive,  /. 
FiGUE,/.     Fig.     Used  fresh  for  compotes,  and  dried  as  dessert 

or  in  puddings. 
FiLET,  /.     Fillet,  e.     The  centre  part  6i  a  loin  of  beef,  mutton, 

veal,  pork,  and  game.     Also  boned  breasts  of  poultry,  birds, 

and  the  boned  sides  of  fish  are  called  fillets. 
FiNANCiERE,  /.     Name  of  a  very  rich  ragout  used  in  entrees. 
Fine-herbs,  e.     Fines-herbes,  /.     A  combination   of    finely- 
chopped  fresh  herbs,  mostly  used  in  omelets  and  sauces. 
Fish,  e.     Poisson,/. 
Flamande  (a  la),/.     Flemish  style. 
Flamber,/.     To  singe  poultry  or  game. 
Flan,/.     A  French  custaid  tart. 
Flancs.     Name  of  side  dishes  at  large  dinners. 
Flavouring.       Seasoning.       Certain    ingredients,    consisting 

principally  of  spices,  herbs,  and  essences,  used  in  cookery  to 

impart  taste  or  flavour  to  food  in  order  to  render  it  more 

palatable. 
Fleurons,/.     Little  sippets  or  half  moons  of  puff  paste  used 

for  garnishing. 
Flounder,/.    Carrelet,  e.    A  small  flat  sea  fish. 
Flour,  e.     Farine,  /.     Crushed  or  ground  grain  (wheat,  corn, 

rice,  maize,  &c.)  reduced  to  fine  powder. 
FoiE  DE  VEAU,/.     Calf's  liver. 
FoiE  GRAS.     Fat  goose  liver. 
Fond,  /.     Strong  gravy ;    meat   stock ;    bottom,    as   in    •'  fond 

d'artichant. 
Fondant,  f.    Melting-,  e. 
Fondue,/.    A  preparation  of  melted  cheese. 
Forcemeat,  e.    Farce,  / 
Fouettee,/.     Whipped  with  the  whisk. 
FouRCHETTE,  /.     Fork,  e.     First  manufactured  in  England  in 

1608  ;  its  use  was  ridiculed  by  men  at  the  time. 
FouRRE,/     Coated  with  sugar,  cream,  &c. 
Fraises,/     Strawberries,  e. 
Framboises,  /.     Kaspberries,  e. 
FRAN9AISB  (A  la),/     French  style. 
Francatelli.     Name  of  an  eminent  chef,  1805 — 1876,  author 

of  the  "  Cook's  Guide,"  and  the  "  Modern  Cook,"  pupil  of 

A.    Careme,    chef    at    the    Keform     Club    and    to     Queen 

Victoria. 
Frapper,/     Iced  (used  when  cooling  champagne). 


892  PKACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

French  beans  e.  Haricots  verts,/.  A  half-hardy  annual  plant, 
brovight  originally  from  India. 

Friand,/.     An  epicure,  a  dainty  person, 

Friandines,/.     Small  round  patties  containing  mince. 

Friar's  Omelet.  A  baked  omelet  prepared  with  apples  stewed 
to  a  pulp,  eggs  and  sugar. 

Fricandeau,/.  Roast  fillet  of  veal,  larded.  This  dish  is  sup- 
posed to  have  been  invented  by  Jean  de  Careme,  who  was  the 
direct  ancestor  of  the  famous  Careme.  He  was  cook  to  Pope 
Leo  X.  This  pontiff  possessed  magnificent  tastes :  he 
fostered  the  genius  of  Raphael  the  painter,  and  encouraged 
also  the  genius  which  could  discover  a  fricandeau. 

Fricandelles,  f.     Small  thin  braised  steaks  of  veal  or  game. 

Fricassee,/.  Fricasseed,  e.  The  word  comes  ^rom  the  English 
freak,  brisk,  dainty.     A  white  stew  of  chicken  or  veal. 

Frit,/     Fried  in  butter  or  drippine. 

Frittata.  An  Italian  dish ;  a  kind  of  rolled  pancake  crumbed 
and  fried  in  fat. 

Fritter,  e.  Beignets,/  Anything  dipped  in  batter,  crumbed 
or  egged,  and  fried. 

Friture,/  The  frying  substance  in  which  fish,  fritters,  &c.  are 
fried. 

Fromagb  glace,/     a  dish  of  ice-cream  in  a  cheese  like  shape. 

Frosting-.  A  culinary  term  ;  to  make  certain  dishes  appear 
like  frost.  It  consists  of  whipped  whites  of  egg  sj^read 
roughly  over  the  dish,  dredged  with  castor  sugar,  and  baked 
in  a  cool  oven. 

Frumenty,  Once  a  Lord's  Mayor's  dish,  and  a  staple  food  of 
our  robust  ancestors  ;  it  is  wheat  or  barley  boiled.  Eaten  with 
honey,  sugar,  milk,  or  treacle. 

Frying,  e.  Frire,  /  To  cook  in  fat,  butter,  or  oil.  No  salt 
should  be  in  the  fat,  nor  in  the  food  fried  in  it. 

Fumet,/     The  flavour  or  essence  of  game  or  fish. 

FuRCiFER  is  the  name  under  which  the  fork  was  introduced  into 
England  at  the  beginning  of  the  seventeenth  century.  Tom 
Coryat  first  brought  table-forks  to  England. 

G. 

Galantine,/     A  dish  of  white  meat  rolled,  served  cold. 

Garbure,/     a  kind  of  broth  made  with  bread  and  vegetables. 

Garlic,  e.  Ail,  /  A  root-plant  with  a  pungent  taste.  Like 
onions,  chives,  and  shallots,  it  possesses  medicinal  virtues, 
being  cooling  to  the  system,  increasing  saliva  and  gastric 
juices,  stimulating,  and  digestive.  First  imported  from 
Sicily. 

Gasterba.  Goddess  of  Gastronomy,  presiding  over  everything 
appertaining  to  the  preservation  of  life. 

Gastronome.    A  caterer  ;  hotel  or  restaurant  keeper. 


VOCABULAKY   OF    TERMS    USED    IN    COOKERY      893 

Gastronomy,  e.      Gastronomie,  /.      The  art  of    good   living. 
Strictly   speaking,    meaning   the     science   of    life,   through 
which  we  discover  what  food,  under   various  circumstances, 
is  best  suited,  and  it  teaches  us  the  effect  it  bears  upon  man 
individually  or  a  nation. — "  The  Autocrat  of  the  Dinner  Table," 
Gateau,/.     A  round  flat  cake. 
Gaufre,/.     a  light  biscuit ;  wafer. 
Geleb,  f.     Jelly,  e.    Inspissated  juice  of  fruit  or  meat. 
Gelinotte,/.     Hazel-hen  ;  heath-cock. 
Genevoise  (a  la).     Geneva  style. 
Genoise,/.     Genoese  style.     Also  the  name  of  a  kind  of  sponge 

cake  ;  a  brown  fish  sauce, 
German  style,  e.    A  I'Allemande,  f. 

Giblets,    e.     Abatis,  /.      The    trimmings    of    poultry    (neck, 
pinions,  liver,  heart,  &c.).     Those  from  geese,  turkeys,  fowls, 
and  ducks  are  principally  used  for  pies,  stews,  and  soups. 
GiGOT  A  sept  heures,  or  Gigot  a  la  cuillere,  is  a  leg  of 
mutton  which  has  been  cooked  for  seven  hours,  when  it  may 
be  carved  with  a  spoon. 
Ginger,  e.     Gingembre,  /.     A  root  plant ;  native  of  the  East 
and  West  Indies.    It  is  ground  or  preserved  whole  for  various 
culinary  purposes. 
Gingerbread,  or  Pain  d'epice,  has  been  in  use  ever  since  the 
fourteenth  century.    It  was  then  made  and  sold  only  in  Paris, 
according  to  Monteil,  "  Histoire  des  Frangais."     Gingerbread 
was  introduced  into  England  by  the  court  of  Henry  IV. 
GiTANA  (a  la).     Gipsy  fashion. 
Glace,  e,f.     Frozen,  iced. 
Glace,/.    Ice. 
Glace  de  sucre  (Glace  royale).    Icing  sugar ;  very  fine  dust 

sugar. 
Glaze,  <9.     Glace  de  viande,/.     Stock  or  gravy  reduced  to  the 
thickness  of  jelly;  used  for  glazing   meats,  &c.,  to  improve 
their  appearance.      Well-made  glaze  adheres  firmly  to  the 
meat.     Also  used  for  strengthening  soups  and  sauces. 
Gnocchi.     a  light   savoury  dough,   boiled,   and  served  with 

grated  Parmesan  cheese  (Italian  dish). 
GODIVEAUX/.     Rich  veal  forcemeat. 
Goose,  e.     Oie,/.     Goose  liver  =  foie  gras  ;  foie  d'oie,/. 
Gooseberry,  e.     Groseille,  /.     The  fruit  of  a  prickly  shrub  in- 
digenous to  Great  Britain. 
Goulash  (Guillash).     A  Hungarian  dish.     Finely  sliced  beef  or 

veal  stew,  highly  seasoned. 
Gourmand,/.    An  epicure;  a  ravenous  eater ;  a  glutton. 
Gourmet,/     A  judge  of  good  living ;  one  who  values  and  enjoys 

good  eating ;  a  connoisseur  in  wine. 
Gout,  /     Taste  or  savour,  e.    Relish,  to  perceive  by  the  tongue  ; 
the  sense  of  tasting  ;  an  intellectual  relish. 


894  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

GouTEE,  /.     An   afternoon   meal ;    a  meat  tea.     To  taste,   to 

relish. 
Gramolata.     a  kind  of  half-frozen  lemon  water-ice  served  in 

glasses. 
Gras  (au),  /.     This  signifies  that  the  article  specified  is  dressed 

with  rich  meat  gravy. 
Gratis,  /.    See  Au  gratin. 
Gratiner,/.     To  brown  the  top  of  a  dish, 
Grexadins,/.     Small  slices  of  veal  or  game  larded. 
Grimod  db  la  Regniere.      Name  of  a  celebrated  culinary 

author  and  an  able  chef,  editor,  in  1803,  of  the  journal  called 

"  Almanach  des  Gom-mands." 
Griottb,/.     a  dark-red  cherry,  called  Armenian  cherry,  suit- 
able for  compote  and  jam. 
Grive,/.     Fieldfare  ;  thrush,  e. 
Groseilles./.     Gooseberries  or  currants,  e. 
Gros-sel,  /.     Coarse  salt,  e. 
Grouse,  e.     Coq  du  bois,  /.     Black  grouse,  or  American  grouse  ; 

neat  cock  ;  cock  of  the  Vv-oods. 
Gruau,/.      Gruel ;  oatmeal ;  water-gruel. 
GuiSADO.     A   Spanish   dish,  prepared  with  meat   stewed  and 

potatoes. 

H. 

Hache,  f.     Minced  meat,  finely  sliced  meat. 

Haddock,  e.    Aigrefin,/. 

Haggis.     A  kind  of  liver  sausage  (Scotch  dish).     The  modern 

Haggis  consists  of  the  liver,  hghts,  and  heart  of  a  sheep  finely 

chopped,  mixed  with  oatmeal  and  suet  and  seasoning.     This 

is  inserted  in  a  sheep's  paunch  and  boiled  for  several  hours. 

Robert  Burns  greatly  esteemed  this  dish,  which  was,  it  is 

said,  a  favourite  dish  of  the  Romans. 
Halaszle.     a  Hungarian  fish  stew 
Ham,  e.     Jambon,/. 
Hare,  e.     Lievre,/. 

Harexg,/.     Herring,  e.     A  small  sea  fish. 
Haricot,/.     Bean;  also  applied  to  a  thick  meat  stew,  so  called 

from  the  French  word  for  beans,  from  which  the  dish  was 

originally  made. 
Haricots  panaches,/.     French  beans  or  string  beans  mixed 

with  flageolets  (green  kidney  beans). 
Hash.     To  slice  or  dress  in  small  bits.   Its  meaning  is  to  re-dress 

a  dish,  so  as  to  mystify  its  origin,  by  the  reappearance  in  a 

different  form. 
Hatelet,/.     a  small  silver  skewer  garnished  with  cut  roots, 

truffles,  mushrooms,  aspic,  cock's  combs,  &c.,  used  for  orna- 

mentino:  fish  and  remove  dishes. 


VOCABULARY    OF    TERMS    USED    IN    COOKERY       895 

Hodge-podge  (Hochepot)  or  Hotch-potch.    A  soup  very  popular 

in  Scotland.     A  meat  ragout  with  chestnuts ;  a  Scotch  meat 

stew. 
HOLLANDAISE, /.     Dutch  style;  also  name  of  a  white  fish  sauce. 
Hominy,  e.     A  farinaceous  food  prepared  from  maize. 
Honey,  e.    Miel,/.    Sweet  juice  collected  from  various  flowers  by 

bees.     French  narbonne  and  Swiss  honey  are  very  celebrated. 

The  English  honey  also  supplies  an  excellent  table  delicacy. 
Hoes-d'ceuvres,  f.     Small    side   dishes,  served  colfi,  generally 

before  the  soup,  in  order  to  create  appetite.     They  consist  of 

anchovies,  caviare,  sardines,  and  other  dainty  relishes. 
Horseradish.   Raifort,/.   A  species  of  scurvy-root  of  peculiarly 

hot  flavour. 
HuiTRE,/.     Oyster,  e.     A  bivalvular  testaceous  shell-fish. 
HuRE,/.     Boar  or  pig's  head  ;  also  head  and  shoulders  of  some 

large  fish. 
HuRE  DE  SANGLIER,/.     Wild  boar's  head. 

I. 

Ice.    See  Glace. 

Ices.  Supposed  to  have  been  introduced  by  Catherine  de 
Medici s  in  the  16th  century.  Some  assert  that  ice-cream 
was  first  invented  by  a  negro  named  Jackson,  who  kept  a 
small  confectioner's  shop  in  Soho  in  the  early  part  of  the 
present  century. 

Icing,  e.  Glasure,  /.,  or  glace.  A  covering  for  cakes  or  pastry 
made  with  fine  sugar  and  white  of  ^%^,  or  sugar  and  water, 
flavoured  and  coloured  according  to  taste. 

Indien.     a  ITndienne. 

Indienne  (a  l').     Indian  style. 

Inuwer.     German  name  for  ginger. 

Irish,  e.     A  I'lrlandaise,  /. 

Irish  stew.  A  stew  of  mutton,  potatoes,  and  onions  ;  national 
dish  of  Ireland. 

Isinglass.  Gelatine.  The  former  is  prepared  from  the  sound 
or  swimming-bladder  of  the  sturgeon  and  other  similar 
fishes.  Both  isinglass  and  gelatine  are  used  for  giving  firm- 
ness to  liquids,  but  cannot  be  regarded  as  an  article  of 
nourishment. 

IsiNGLASSiNE.     An  economical  substitute  for  gelatine. 

Italienne  (a  l'.)    Italian  style. 

Iudabah.  Name  of  an  Arab  dish.  Rice  stewed  in  chicken  fat, 
and  sweetened. 

J. 

Jam,  e.  Confiture,  /.  A  confection  or  conserve  of  fruit,  made 
by  boiling  fruit  with  sugar  to  a  certain  consistency. 

57 


896  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

Jambox,/.     Ham,  e.     The  thigh  of  a  hog  salted  and  smoked. 

Jambonxeau,/.     a  Tery  small  ham. 

Jardinieee,  /.  A  mixture  of  spring  vegetables  ;  vegetables 
stewed  down  in  their  owtl  sauce. 

Jean  de  Caeeme  (John  of  Lent).  A  famous  cook  under  Pope 
Leo  X.,  w^ho  received  the  nickname  "  John  of  Lent,"  in 
consequence  of  a  celebrated  soupe  ma.igre  which  he  used 
to  prepare  for  his  master  the  Pope.  He  is  supposed  to  be 
the  direct  ancestor  of  the  celebrated  Antoine  Careme. 

Jellies,  e.     Gelees,/.     Inspissated  juice  of  fruits  or  meats. 

Jeexik-kalwasi.  a  Russian  dish,  consisting  of  semolina,  milk, 
and  honey. 

Jeeusalem  Aetichoke,  e.  Tobinambour,  /.  Imported  from 
Brazil.  A  tuberous  root -plant  resembling  potatoes,  but  not 
so  nourishing.  The  root  contains  4  per  cent,  more  water 
than  potatoes.  If  put  with  milk  it  acts  like  rennet  (it 
curdles  the  milk).  Also  called  G-irasol  artichoke,  a  corrup- 
tion of  the  Italian  sunflower.  Best  adapted  for  the  favourite 
soup  called  "  Palestine  "  ;  also  served  as  a  vegetable. 

Joint,  e.  Releves,  /.  The  grosse-piece  or  jaiece  de  resistance 
of  a  dinner.  On  the  Continent  the  joint  is  usually  served 
after  the  fish,  whilst  in  this  country  it  is  served  after  the 
entrees. 

JoLEEiE,/.     A  small  sweet-water  fish  similar  to  perch. 

Jugged,  e.     Civet  de  .  .  .  ,  /".     Stewed. 

Jugging.  Name  of  a  form  of  cooking,  by  placing  meat  in  a 
jar  uith  just  sufficient  water  to  cover ;  it  is  then  allowed  to 
stew  at  even  temperature  in  the  bain-marie,  or  in  the  oven. 

Julienne.  Name  of  a  vegetable  clear  soup,  first  made  in 
1 785  by  a  cook  named  Jean  Julien ;  vegetable  roots  finely  shred. 

Junket.  Juncate,  from  the  Latin  word  jtmais.  Name  of  a 
favourite  Devonshire  dish,  which  consists  of  milk  turned 
with  rennet,  double  cream,  sugar,  and  ground  cinnamon  or 
other  flavouring.  Usually  served  with  fruit,  fresh  or  pre- 
served. 

Jus,/.     Juice  ;  broth  ;  gravy. 


K. 

Kabob.     An  Indian  dish  of  stewed  meat  curried. 

Kaimak.     a  Russian  sweet,  similar  to  cream  custard. 

KAlEI.  The  translation  in  French  or  German  of  the  English 
word  *'  curry." 

Kedgeeee.  An  Indian  dish  of  fish  and  rice  curried.  The 
name  is  taken  from  Khichri,  an  Indian  dish,  consisting  of 
boiled  fish  or  salt  fish,  eggs,  and  rice,  garnished  with  hard- 
boiled  eggs,  strips  of  chili,  &:c.     . 


VOCABULARY    OF    TERMS    USED    IN    COOKERY       897 

Kettle  of  fish.  Is  a  sort  of  fish  stew  well  known  in  Scotland  ; 
locally  known  as  "iisli  and  sauce."  It  is  generally  made 
from  haddocks. 

Kickshaw,  e.  Espece  de  ragout  or  charcuterie,  /,  This  is  a 
name  used  in  cookery  which  may  be  given  to  any  dish  pre- 
pared with  extraordinary  nicety  ;  but  it  is  usually  applied  to 
such  things  as  are  regarded  as  luxuries  by  the  rich. 

Kid,  e.  Chevreau,  /,  A  young  wild  goat.  In  the  time  of  our 
forefathers  the  flesh  was  esteemed  as  much  as  lamb.  The 
meat  is  sweet  and  very  tender.  It  is  usuall}'  cooked  whole, 
like  sucking-pig  (larded  or  barded,  and  sometimes  mari- 
naded). 

Kidney,  e.  Rognons,  /.  Sheep's,  lamb's,  veal,  and  pork  kid- 
neys are  alone  considered  of  any  account  in  cookery.  They 
possess  a  peculiar  slightly  bitter  flavour,  which  characteristic 
makes  them  a  favourite  dish  for  breakfast  or  luncheon. 
They  are  best  grilled  or  sauteed,     (Somewhat  indigestible.) 

Kippee.  a  term  applied  to  herrings,  salmon,  or  mackerel,  split 
open,  salted  (cured),  smoked,  and  dried.  (The  word  is 
taken  from  the  Dutch  kijyper,  which  means  to  hatch  or  to 
spawn.) 

Klossb.  German  dish,  composed  of  small  light  balls  boiled  in 
water,  milk,  or  gravy  They  ai-e  made  of  bread,  potatoes,  rice, 
and  eggs,  and  are  varied  with  meat,  fish,  or  liver. 

Knol  Kohl  or  Kohl-Rabi,  Choux-Raves.  Is  a  turnip-shaped 
vegetable,  which  is  cooked  without  being  pared  ;  but  before 
going  to  table  the  outside  must  be  carefully  removed.  They 
are  generally  served  with  butter  or  a  white  sauce. 

Knuckle  of  Veal,  Jarret  de  Veau.  Part  below  the  knee 
joint ;  mostly  used  for  stews  and  stock. 

KONOMOE.     Name  of  a  Japanese  vegetable, 

Koofthas.  Name  of  an  Indian  dish.  A  mince  of  meat  or 
fowl,  curried,  shaped  into  balls,  and  fried. 

Koumiss,  e.  A  nutritious  and  easily  assimilated  beverage, 
originally  made  from  camel's  milk.  It  is  now  prepared  with 
new  cow's  milk  and  an  addition  of  yeast,  and  is  bottled  when 
partially  fermented. 

Kromeskis  or  Cromeskis.  (Cromesquis.)  A  Polish  word, 
having  the  same  meaning  as  croquette  in  French,  Rolls  of 
minced  chicken  and  ham,  crumbed  or  dipped  in  batter 
and  fried, 

Krup^ick.     a  Russian  soup. 

L. 

Lait,/,     Milk,  e.     Au  lait,  prepared  with  milk,  or  in  milk. 
Lamb,  e.    Agneau,/. 
Lamb's  fey,  e.    AnimeUes,/. 


898  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

Land  o'  cakes.  A  name  sometimes  given  to  Scotland,  because 
oatmeal  cakes  are  a  common  national  dish,  particularly 
among  the  poorer  classes. 

Langouste,/,    Very  large  lobster ;  sea  crayfish  (spring  lobster). 

Lapereau,  /'.     Young  rabbit. 

Lapin,/.     Eabbit.     A  small,  long-eared  quadruped. 

LARDO-iSf,  /.     A  piece  of  fat  bacon  used  for  larding. 

Lark.    Alouette,/. 

Lasanges,/.  Lasagna,  it.  Strips  of  paste  made  of  eggs  and 
flour,  and  boiled. 

Leek.  Poireau,/.  Is  said  to  be  a  native  of  Switzerland.  The 
leek  was,  and  still  is,  the  favourite  ingredient  in  the  "cock-a- 
leekie,"  of  which  King  James  I.  was  so  fond,  that  he  retained 
his  preference  for  it  notwithstanding  all  the  dainties  of 
French  cookery. 

Leg,  e.     Gigot  cuisse,/. 

Legume,  /.    Vegetable. 

Lemon,  e.     Citron,/. 

Levraut,  /.     Leveret.     A  young  hare. 

Levure,/.     Yeast.     A  preparation  which  ferments  dough. 

Liaison,  f.  The  mixture  of  yolk  of  eggs,  cream,  etc.,  used  for 
thickening  or  binding  white  soups  and  sauces. 

Lit,  /.     Thin  slices  of  meat  spread  in  layers. 

LivouRNAiSE  (A  LA).     Leghorn  style. 

Lobster,  e.     Homard  ;  langouste,/. 

Loin,  e.   Longe,  /  The  back  portion  nearest  the  leg  of  an  animal. 

LucuLLUS.  Name  of  the  famous  Eoman  epicure  and  field- 
marshal,  Lucius  Licinius  LucuUus,  114 — 57  B.C. 

Lunch,  e.  Dejeuner  a  la  fourchette,  /.  A  repast  between 
breakfast  and  diuner.  The  word  is  derived  from  the  Welsh 
Llwne,  lunching  or  hurrying.  Robert  Burns  in  his  "  Holy 
Friar  "  says  :  "An  cheese,  an  bread,  frae  women's  laps,  was 
dealt  about  in  lunches." 

Luting.  A  paste  used  for  fastening  lids  on  pie  dishes  in  which 
game  is  preserved. 

Lyonnaise  (a  la),/.     Lyons  style. 

M. 
Macaroni.     This  is  a  peculiar  paste,  prepared  from  flour  and 

manufactured  into  tubes.     It  is  an  Italian  invention. 
Macedoine,  /,     A  mixture  of  various  kinds  of  vegetables  or 

fruits,  cut  in  even-shaped  discs. 
Madelaines,/.     Little  cakes  baked  in  special  tartlet  moulds. 
Maigre  (au),  /     A  dish  without  meat.      Applied  to  Lenten 

dishes. 
Maintenon.     Name  of  the  Marchioness  Frangoise  dAubigne ; 

born   16.35,   died   1719  ;    a   great  patroness   of   cooks,  and 

admirer  of   fine   cooking.     Several  dishes  are   called  "^  la 


VOCABULARY    OF    TERMS    USED    IN    COOKERY       899 

Maintenon."    The  dish  "  Cotelettes  de  veau  A,  la  Maintenon  " 

is  said  to  have  been  invented  by  this  lady,  who  was  Louis  XIV. 's 

favourite,  and  did    all  in  her  power  to  tempt  the  failing 

appetite  of  the  king  when  he  was  advanced  in  age. 
Maitee  d'hotbl  (a  la),/.     Hotel  steward's  fashion. 
Maquereau.     Mackerel.     A  spotted  fish. 
Maraschino,  e.    Marasquin,  /'.     A  delicately  flavoured  white 

liqueur,  used  for  flavouring  jellies  and  ices. 
Marcassin,  /.     Grice,  e.     Young  wild  boar,  generally  cooked 

whole. 
Marengo.     An  Italian  village,  which  gives  its  name  to  the  dish 

"  Poulet  saute  a  la  Marengo."     The  dish  is  said  to  have  first 

been  served  to  Napoleon  I.  by  his  chef,  who  hurriedly  prepared 

a  fowl  in  this  fashion  after  a  battle. 
Marie  Louise.     Second  wife  of  Napoleon  I.,  born   1791,  died 

1847.     The  lady  was  a  great  gourmand  of  her  time. 
Marigold.     A  fiavouring  herb,  also  known  as  Pot  Marigold.     It 

is  a  native  of  Spain,  and  was  introduced  into  England  in 

1573. 
Marinade,  /.     The  brine  in  which  fish  or  meat  is  sauced  or 

pickled. 
Marjolain,/.  Marjoram,  e.  An  excellent  kitchen  herb  of  strong 

flavour,  used  fresh   or  dried   for  game   seasoning  ;  also  for 

flavouring  sauces,  forcemeat,  etc. 
Marquer,  /'.     To  prepare,  and  arrange  in  a  stewpan,  a  piece  of 

meat  ready  for  cooking. 
Marzipan.     Delicate  German   dessert  dainties  made  from  al- 
mond paste. 
Mask.     To  cover  any  kind  of  cooked  meat  with  thick  rich  gravy 

or  savoury  jelly. 
Masquer,  /.     To  sauce  a  dish  which  is  ready  for  serving  ;  also, 

to  mask  the  inside  of  a  mould  with  savoury  jelly  or  chaudfroid 

sauce  when  required  for  cold  entrees. 
Massepain,  /.  A  French  dessert  pastry. 
Matelote,  /.     A  marine  dish  ;  a  rich  fish  stew  with  wine  and 

herb  flavouring. 
Mayonnaise,  /.    A  kind  of  salad  of  fish  or  poultry,  with  a  thick 

cold  sauce  made  of  yolks  of  eggs,  oil,  and  vinegar  ;  a  salad 

sauce  or  dressing.     The  sauce  is  said  to  have  been  invented 

by  the  chef  to  the  Due   de  Kichelieu,   after  the  victory  of 

Mahon  (Mahonnaise). 
Mazagran.     a  French  term  for  a  glass  of  black  coffee,  sugar, 

and  water. 
Mazarines.    Turbans,  /.    Forcemeat  ornaments  of  fish,  poultry, 

or  game. 
Menu,  f.     The  bill  of  fare.       The  French  word  means  a  minute 

detail   of  courses.      A  list  of  the  dishes  which  are   to   be 

served  at  a  meal.     Menus  were  first  used  in  loll. 


900  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

Menus  deoits.    Pig's  ears  served  up  as  an  entree. 
Meringue,  /.     Light  pastry,  made  of  white  of  eggs  and  sugar, 

filled  with  cream  or  ice. 
Meelan,  /.     Whiting.      A  delicate  fish  allied  to  the  cod. 
Mets,  /.     The  meal,  or  dish  :  "  Mets  de  farine,"  "  entremets  de 

douceur,"  "  de  legumes,"  etc. 
Mignonette  peppee.     Coarsely  ground  white  peppercorns. 
MiJOTER,  /.  To  cook  slowly ;  to  simmer  gently  over  a  small  fire. 
Milk.     Du  lait,/. 
Mtllecantons,  /.     Name  of  a  small  fish  of  the  whitebait  kind, 

found  in  the  lake  of  Geneva  ;   cooked  in  the  same  manner  as 

whitebait ;  in  season  in  July  and  August. 
Mint  julep.  Name  of  an  American  drink. 
Mieabelles,  /.     A  kind  of  small  yellow  plums,  very  sweet  and 

juicy,  used  for  compotes,  fresh  or  dried. 
Mieepoix,  /.     The  foundation  preparation  of  vegetables,  herbs, 

and  lard,  for  brown  soups  and  sauces  ;  also  for  braised  meats, 

etc. 
Miroton,  /.     Thin  slices  of   meat,  the  size   of  a  five-shilling 

piece,  braised,  stewed,  and  dished  up  in  a  circular  form. 
Mitonnee,  f.     To  steep  and  allow  to  boil  during  a  certain  time. 
MoELLE  DE  BCEUF,/.     Beef  marrow,  e. 
Moisten.     To  add  liquid. 
MoEiLLES,/.     Morels,  e.    Morchel,  g.    A  fungus  found  mostly  in 

Germany,  some  parts  of  Switzerland,  and  also  in  this  country. 

Used  for  stews  and  garnish. 
MoRTiFiE./.     Term  applied  to  meat  or  game  well  hung. 
Mote  or  Moti.     Name  of  an  Indian  fish  curry. 
MouiLLER, /.     To  add  broth,  water,  or  any  other  suitable  juice, 

during  the  cooking  of  meats. 
Mousse,  /.     A  light  ice  cream.     Among  the  definitions  given 

for  this  word  are  mossy,  froth  or  foam.     A  mousse  frappee  is 

a  rich  cream  frozen  without  working ;  it  has  the  texture  of 

fire  moss. 
MouTON,/.     Mutton,  e. 

Mulligatawny.  An  Indian  curry  soup  ;  a  paste  made  of  curry. 
MuEE,  f.    Mulberry,  e.     Black   and  white  fruit   of  a  delicate 

flavour,  used  for  making  jellies,  syrups,  and  vinegar. 
MuSTAED,  e.     Moutarde,/.     The  seeds  of  a  plant,  Sinapis  nigre 

ijblacli)  and   Sinapis   alba   (yvTiite   or   yellow').      A  pungent 

ground  seed,  chiefly  used  as  a  relish  or  condiment.     Engli^^h 

mustard  was  first  manufactured  at   Durham  in  1729.     The 

recipe  was   kept  a  secret  for  many  years.     Some  traditions 

assert  that  a  lady  named  Clements,  of  Durham,  first  intro- 
duced mustard  as  a  condiment  in  1720. 
Myetille./.     Bilberry.     A  fruit  used  for  compotes,  syrups,  and 

sweet  sauces. 


VOCABULAUY    OF    TERMS    USED    IN    COOKERY       901 


N. 

Napolitaine  (a  la),/.    Naples  style. 

Nappee,/.  To  cover  a  dish  with  a  layer  of  thick  sauce,  jelly,  or 
jam. 

Naturel,  f.     Plain,  simple. 

iSlAVAEiN,  /.  A  stew  of  miitton  or  lamb.  A  kind  of  haricot 
mutton.  The  name  is  of  ancient  origin,  being  mentioned  in 
one  of  the  plays  of  Sodelle  in  the  early  part  of  the  seven- 
teenth century.  Turnips  form  the  principal  garniture  of  a 
navarin. 

Navet,  /.  Turnip,  e.  A  bulbous  root  used  for  soups,  as  a 
vegetable,  and  for  flavouring. 

Neck,  e.     Carr6,/-     The  rib  part  of  veal,  mutton,  lamb,  or  pork. 

Nefles,/.  Medlars,  e.  Small,  pear-shaped,  delicately  flavoured 
fruit. 

Negus,  Name  of  a  hot  drink  composed  of  port  wine,  sugar, 
nutmeg,  and  lemon  juice ;  so  called  after  Colonel  Negus  (in 
the  reign  of  Qaeen  Anne). 

Neige,  /.     White  of  eggs  beaten  to  snow  or  a  froth. 

Nesselkode.  Name  of  a  pudding,  iced,  flavoured  with  chest- 
nuts ;  invented  by  Mony,  chef  to  the  famous  Count  Nessel- 
rode. 

Niokes,  or  NiOKiBS.  A  farinaceous  dish,  prepared  with  semo- 
lina or  Indian  maize,  flavoured  with  grated  cheese,  cream,  &c. 
Of  Russian  invention. 

Nivernaise  (a  la),  /.     Nivernese  style. 

Noisette,  /.     Hazel  nut ;  fruit  of  the  hazel. 

Noix  DE  MuscAsT,/.  Nutmeg,  e.  The  fruit  of  the  nutmeg  tree  ; 
an  aromatic  spice. 

Noix  de  veau,/.     Cushion  of  veal  (knuckle  of  veal). 

NoQUES,/.  Small  dumplings  made  from  flour,  milk,  or  cream, 
boiled  in  soup  or  salt  water,  and  served  as  garnish. 

NORMANDE  (A  LA).     Normandy  style. 

Nougat,  /.  Almond  rock  candy.  A  sweet oaeat  made  with 
sugar,  honey,  almonds,  pistachios,  &c. 

NOUILLES,/.  Nudels.  A  German  preparation,  "  Nudeln."  It 
consists  of  a  stiff  dough  made  with  flour  and  eggs,  rolled 
out  veiy  thinly,  cut  up  in  thin  strips  and  boiled,  and  served 
as  garnish  ;  or  fried  and  served  as  sweet. 

Noyau,  f.  The  stone  of  a  fruit ;  a  liqueur  flavoured  with  kernels. 

Nutmeg,  e.  Noix  de  Muscat,/.  An  aromatic  fruit.  Exten- 
sively used  as  flavouring ;  its  husks  are  known  as  mace. 

O. 

Oatmeal,  e.  Avoine,  f.  The  grain  of  the  oat  dried  in  a  kiln 
and  ground.     There  are  three  kinds:  coarse,  medium,  and 


902  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

fine.  Oatmeal,  when  cooked,  is  considered  the  most  perfect 
example  of  a  complete  food.  Generally  eaten  in  the  form 
of  porridge  or  gruel. 

(EUF,/.     Egg,  e. 

OiE,  /.     Goose,  e. 

OiGNON,  /.  Onion,  e.  A  vegetable  plant  of  the  Allium  family; 
a  valuable  culinary  adjunct  for  flavouring  and  garnish. 

Olive,  /.  Olive,  e.  Fruit  of  the  oil-tree,  used  as  hors-d'oeuvres, 
and  as  garnish  for  sauces,  stews,  salads,  etc. 

Okra.     Name  of  a  vegetable  extensively  used  in  South  America. 

Omble.  Xame  of  an  excellent  sweetwater  fish,  from  the  lake 
of  Geneva,  weighing  up  to  15  lbs.  apiece  ;  in  season  during 
the  months  of  January  and  February. 

Ombee  CHEVALIER,  /.  Grayling,  e.  A  sweetwater  fish,  similar 
to  the  trout. 

Omelette,  /.  Omelet,  e.  A  pancake  or  fritter  of  eggs,  &c. 
Its  name  is  supposed  to  be  derived  from  the  word  "  ovum," 
an  f^^%^^  meaning  "  oeufs  meles."     A  mixture  of  eggs. 

Onion,  e.  A  plant  of  the  onion  tribe,  the  leek,  shallot,  and 
garlic  being  of  the  same  species.  After  salt,  the  onion  is 
the  most  valuable  seasoning  in  cookery ;  it  possesses  stimu- 
lating and  digestive  properties. 

Orgeate,/.  Barley  water  or  almond  milk  ;  a  favourite  summer 
drink. 

Oriental  salt.  A  pleasant  and  agreeable  condiment,  made 
from  the  fresh  red  chilli ;  it  has  the  same  properties  as 
Cayenne  pepper  without  its  pungency,  and  forms  a  pleasant 
variety  with  the  ordinary  white  salt  on  the  dinner  table. 
Ortolan,  /.  Ortolan,  e.  (Garden  bunting.)  A  bird  of  the 
size  of  a  lark. 

OsEiLLE,  /.  Sorrel,  e.  A  sour  plant  of  green  colour,  used  for 
soups  or  as  a  vegetable. 

Ox-tail  soup  is  said  to  have  been  discovered  as  follows : — 
During  the  Eeign  of  Terror  in  Paris,  in  1 793,  many  of  the 
nobility  were  reduced  to  starvation  and  beggary.  The 
abattoirs  sent  their  hides  fresh  to  the  tanneries  without 
removing  the  tails,  and  in  cleaning  them  the  tails  were 
thrown  away.  One  of  these  noble  beggars  asked  for  a  tail, 
which  was  willingly  given  him ;  he  took  it  to  his  lodgings 
and  made — what  is  now  famous — the  first  dish  of  ox-tail 
soup.  He  told  others  of  his  good  luck,  and  they  annoyed 
the  tanners  so  much,  that  a  price  was  put  on  ox-tails. 
Oyster,  e.  Hultre,/.  A  bivalvular  testaceous  shellfish,  highly 
esteemed  on  account  of  its  delicious  flavour  and  nutritive 
qualities. 
Oyster  Plant.     Salsify  (salsifits),  a  well-known  vegetable. 


VOCABULARY   OF    TERMS    USED    IN    COOKERY       903 


P. 

Paillasse,  /,    A  grill  over  hot  cinders. 

Pain,  /.     Bread  ;  force-meat ;  fruit  puree,  &c. 

Pain  d'epice,  /.     A  kind  of  gingerbread. 

Palais  de  bceuf,  f.     Ox-palate,  e. 

Panache,  /.  Mixed  with  two  or  more  kinds  of  vegetables, 
fruits,  &c. ;  also  creams. 

Panada,  Panade.  A  paste  of  flour  and  water  or  soaked  bread, 
used  in  the  preparation  of  forcemeat  and  stuffing. 

Pancake,  e.  Panequets  or  crepes,  /.  A  thin  cake  made  of 
batter  and  fried  in  a  pan. 

Paner,  /.     To  Q^^  and  breadcrumb. 

Pannequets  or  Crepes,/.    Pancakes. 

Panurette.  a  preparation  of  grated  rusks,  used  for  crumbing 
and  for  decoration  in  place  of  lobster  coral. 

Papaw.  Name  of  a  fruit  well  known  in  South  America;  very- 
similar  to  a  small  melon  in  appearance  and  flavour. 

Papillotbs  (en),  /.  Paper  capsules,  greased,  and  fastened 
round  cutlets,  &c.  Buttered  paper  answers  the  same  purpose 
when  twisted  along  the  edges. 

Paprika.  Hungarian  red  pepper.  A  kind  of  sweet  capsicum 
of  a  brilliant  scarlet  colour;  it  is  more  pungent  than  the 
Spanish  pepper. 

Parboil.     To  half  or  partly  cook  in  boiling  water. 

Parisienne  (a  la),  /.     Parisian  style. 

Parmentier  (Antoine  Augustin).  Born  1737,  died  1813  ;  intro- 
ducer of  the  potato  into  France,  in  1786,  during  the  reign 
of  Louis  XVI.  He  also  invented  twenty  difl'erent  ways  of 
cooking  potatoes.  Sir  W.  Raleigh  brought  the  potato  from 
America  to  England  in  1586, 

Parsley,  e.  Persil,/.  Is  a  native  plant  of  Sardinia,  and  was 
first  introduced  into  England  in  1548.  Parsley  is  used  for 
sauces,  salads,  and  as  a  pot-herb,  and  makes  the  prettiest 
garnish  for  dishes.  Mythology  tells  us  that  it  was  used  to 
adorn  the  head  of  Hercules. 

Parson's  Nose,  This  name  is  given  to  the  extreme  end  portion 
of  the  tail  of  a  fowl. 

Pass,  A  word  much  used  in  cookery.  To  pass  a  sauce,  soup, 
vegetable,  or  meat  means  to  run  it  through  a  sieve  or  strainer. 
In  the  French  kitchen  the  word  *'  passer "  implies  also  to 
'*  faire  revenir,"  To  slightly  fry  in  butter  over  the  fire  so  as 
to  create  a  crusty  surface  on  meats  or  vegetables  which  are 
intended  to  be  finished  by  some  other  process  of  cooking 
(stewing  or  braising). 

Passer,  /.     To  sieve ;  to  pass  through  a  tammy  cloth. 

Pate,  /.     Paste  ;  dough. 

Pate  croquante,  /.    Crisp  almond  and  sugar  paste. 


904  PRACTICAL    GASTEONOMt 

Pate  frisee.     Pate  a  f oncer,/.     Short  paste. 

Pate  feuilletee,/.     Puff  paste. 

Pate  pastillagb,/.     Gum  paste. 

Pi-TE,  /,     A  pie  ;  pasty ;  a  savoury  meat  pasty. 

Pate  de  Foie  Geas,  /.     A  well-known  delicacy  prepared  from 

the   livers   of    fat  geese.      Alsace   is   the   most   celebrated 

country  where  the  so-called  terrines  de  foie  gras  are  made. 

This  dainty  dish  was  first  introduced  by  a  cook  ramed  Close. 
Pate  de  Perigord.     Name  of  a  French  game  pie,  which  derives 

its  name  from  Perigueux,  a  place  celebrated  for  its  truiHes. 
Patisser,  /.     To  make  pastry,  e. 
Patisserie,  /.     Pastry,  e.     A  pastry  business. 
Patissier,/.     Pastrycook,  e. 

Paupiettes,  /.     Slices  of  meat  rolled  with  forcemeat. 
Pavot,  /'.     Poppy,  e.     The  seeds  of  this  plant  are  used  in  stuffing 

mixtures  and  cakes. 
Paysanne  (a  la),  /.     Peasant's  fashion. 
Paysanne.     Peasant's  soup.     A  clear  broth  with  vegetables. 
Peche,  /.     Peach,  e.     A  delicious  juicy  fruit,  used  for  desserts 

and  compote. 
Pepper,  e.     Poivre,  /.     The  berry  of    an   Oriental   shrub.     A 

pungent   aromatic    condiment   largely   consumed    with    all 

kinds   of    meat    and    vegetables.       Mignonette     pepper    is 

obtained  from  the  seeds  within  the  berries ;  it  is  not  nearly 

so  pungent  as  the  black  pepper.     The  difference  between  the 
•  black  and  white  pepper  is  that  in  the  latter  the  outer  husk 

of  the  seed  is  removed,  whilst  the  former  is  ground  w'hole. 
Pepper   Pot.     A  West    Indian   dish ;    consisting    of    stewed 

pickled    pork    or     bacon,    shellfish,    rice,    vegetables,     and 

aromatic  herbs,  highly  seasoned   with   cayenne  and  other 

peppers. 
Perdrix  /.     A  full-grown  partridge  (ptarmigan). 
Persil,  /.     Parsley,  e.      A    plant    used    for     flavouring    and 

garnishing.     See  Parsley. 
Persillade,  /.     A  thick  white  sauce,  in  which  a  large  quantity 

of  parslej^  is  used. 
Petits  Pains  Puree,  /.     Very  small  rolls  scooped  out  and 

stuffed   with   various   kinds   of    savoury  purees ;   served  as 

savoury  or  side  dish  at  supper  parties. 
Petit  lait,/.    Whey,  e. 
Petits  pois  verts,  /.      Small  green  peas. 
Pheasant.    Faisan,/. 
PiC-Nic.     The  Annual  Register  (1802)  says  that  "a  new  kind  of 

entertainment  has  come  into  fashion,  called  '  Picnic  suppers,' 

where  a  variety  of  dishes  are  set  down  in  a  list,  and  whoever 

draws  a  particular  dish  must  furnish  it  for  the  use  of  the 

company." 
Piece  de  resistance.     The  principal  joint  or  dish  of  a  dinner. 


VOCABULARY    OF    TERMS    USED    IN    COOKERY       905 

Pike,  e.     Brochet,/. 

Pilau.     Turkish  national  dish,  made  of  rice  and  onions. 
Pilaw.     An  Indian  dish,  made  of  Hsh  or  meat  and  rice. 
Pimento.     Allspice.     A  condiment  of  great  distinction,  because 

it  is  supposed  to  combine  the  flavours  of  cinnamon,  nutmeg, 

and  cloves. 
Pineapple,  e.    Ananas,  f. 
Pinole.     A  kind  of  wheat  corn  roasted.     Used  as  a  substitute 

for  coffee  in  the  East. 
PiNTADE,  f.     Guinea-fowl,  e.      A  fowl  of   bluish-grey  spotted 

with  white. 
PiQUANTE,  /.     Sharp  of  flavour,  stimulating,  pungent  or  sour. 
PiQUER  (PiQUEE),  f.  To  lard  with  strips  of  fat  bacon,  truflfles,  &c. 
PlSTACHES,/.  Pistachios,  6.  Kernels  of  the  nut  of  the  turpentine- 
tree,  used  for  flavouring  and  garnishing  galantines,  sweets,  &c. 
Plie,  /.     Flounder,  e.     A  small  sea  fish. 
Pluche,  /.      The  leaves  of  parsle}^  chervil,  tarragon,  lettuce, 

sorrel,  cut  small.      They  are   used,  according  to   direction, 

separately  or  mixed. 
Pluvier,  /.  Plover,  e. 
Poach,   to,   e.      Pocher,  /.      To  parboil   or  to   boil   slightly. 

Mode  of  cooking  usually  applied  to  eggs  and  quenelles  of 

fish,  meat,  or  game. 
POCHE,  ee,/.    Poached,  slightly  boiled. 
POELE,  /.     Is  a  kind  of  rich  gravy,  which  is  used  in  expensive 

cookery  to  boil  various  meats  in,  in  place  of  water. 
POELER,/.     A  mode  of  braising  meat  in  a  fire-proof  earthenware 

pan. 
PoiREAU,  /.     Leek,  e.     Soup  vegetable. 
PoiEES,  /.     Pears,  e. 
PoissON,  /.     Fish,  e. 
PoiVEE,  e.     Pepper,  e. 
Polenta.     An   Italian   dish,   commonly  used   in   Italy.     It   is 

made  of   Indian  corn  flour.     In  taste  it  resembles  that   of 

semolina. 
Pollo  con  arroz.     Name  of  an  Italian  dish  consisting  chiefly 

of  rice  stewed  in  broth. 
Pollo  con  Formaggio.    Name  of  an  Italian  dish,   composed 

of  stewed  chicken  and  Parmesan  cheese. 
Polonaise  (a  la),/.     Polish  style,  e. 
PoMMES,/.    Apples,  e. 
PoMMES  DE  terre,  /.     Potatoes,  e. 
Pompadour.     Jeanne    Antoinette,  Marquise  (born   1721,  died 

1764),  well  known  for  her  extravagance  and  indulgence  in 

luxury  of  pleasure  and  eating. 
Porridge.     A  Scotch  dish.     Oatmeal  porridge  is  an  everyday 

article  of  diet  of  the  Scottish  peasantry.    It  is  both  an  agree- 
able as  well  as  a  nutritious  article  of  food,  served  with  milk, 

butter,  salt,  and  cream  ;  also  with  sugar  or  treacle. 


906  PKACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

Porterhouse  steak.  A  thick  steak  cut  from  the  middle 
of  the  ribs  of  beef. 

POTAGE,  /.     Soup,  e.     Applied  to  soups  of  all  kinds. 

Potato.  Potatoes  were  first  introduced  into  England  in  1584, 
by  Thomas  Heriot,  and  were  for  a  long  time  after  considered 
as  a  great  delicacy,  and  could  only  be  procured  in  small 
quantities  at  the  price  of  2s.  per  pound.  After  the  middle  of 
the  seventeenth  century  they  became  gradually  known  and 
more  extensively  cultivated.  As  diet  it  closely  resembles 
rice. 

POT-AU-FEU,  /.  Is  an  economical  and  wholesome  beef  broth. 
It  is  the  standard  dish  of  all  classes  in  France,  and  the 
origin  of  beef  stock 

POTIEON,  /.     Pumpkin. 

Potpourri.  A  stew  of  various  kinds  of  meats  and  spices ; 
a  favourite  dish  in  Spain. 

POTROCK.     Name  of  a  Russian  thick  soup. 

Potted.     Preserved  in  a  pot. 

PouLARDE,/.     A  very  fat  fowl  or  fine  pullet. 

PouLE,  /.     A  hen,  e.     A  fowl. 

Poule-au-pot,/.     Boiled  fowl  cooked  in  the  stock-pot. 

PouLB  de  neige,  /.     White  grouse,  e. 

PouLET,  f.     A  young  chicken. 

Poulbt  de  grain,/,     a  young  cock  (boy  chicken). 

PoULETS  A  LA  Reixe,  /.  Name  given  to  fine  specimens  of 
spring  chickens. 

Poulette,  /.  A  sauce  made  of  flour,  stock,  butter,  and  chopped 
herbs,  used  for  the  dishes  prepared  "a  la  poulette."  A 
young  hen. 

Poulpetom  or  Polpetti.     Slices  of  veal  with  minced  meat. 

Poussiisr,/.     A  young  chicken  (baby  chicken). 

Praline,  /.     Flavoured  with  burnt  almonds. 

Pre-sale,  f.     Meat  of  prime  mutton  (Southdown  mutton). 

Printanier,  -ere,  /.     A  mixture  of  early  spring  vegetables. 

Profiteeoles,  /.  A  kind  of  light  cake,  baked  in  hot  ashes, 
filled  with  cream. 

Prune,  /.     Plum,  e. 

Ptarmigan,    White  grouse,  e.     Perdrix  blanche,/. 

Puff-paste  patties,  e.    Bouchees,  /. 

Pulled  Bread.  Term  applied  to  small  pieces  of  +)read ;  the 
crumb  part  of  a  loaf  is  pulled  into  pieces  whilst  hot,  and 
baked  in  a  moderate  oven  until  they  become  crisp. 

Pullet,  ?.     Poulet./.     A  young  hen  or  female  fowl. 

Pumpernickel,  g.    Westphalian  brown  bread. 

Punch.     A  species  of  hot  drink. 

Punch  a  la  Romaine.  Is  a  kind  of  soft  white  ice,  made  from 
lemon  juice,  white  of  es^g^  sugar,  and  rum.  It  is  served  in 
goblets,  usually  after  the  remove  ;  and  it  has  the  property  of 


VOCABULARY    OF    TERMS    USED    IN    COOKERY      907 

assisting  considerably  the  functions  of  digestion.     It  forms  a 

sort  of  interlude  between  two  acts  of  that  grand  play — the 

dinner. 
Puree,/.    A  smooth  pulp ;  mashed  vegetables  ;  thick  soups.  The 

name  is  also  given  to  meat  or  fish  which  is  cooked,  pounded 

in  a  mortar,  and  passed  through  a  sieve. 
Purslane.     Is  an  American  plant,  used  in  salads,  pot  herbs, 

and  pickles  ;  first  introduced  into  England  in  1652. 

Q. 

Quail,  e.     Caille,/.     A  bird  of  the  grouse  kind. 

Quark.      Name  of  a  German  cheese,  similar  to  curd  cheese, 

known  in  France  as  "fromage  mou." 
Quart,  e.    The  fourth  of  a  gallon,  2  pints. 
QuARTiER, /.     Quarter,  e.     A  fourth  part.     Quartier  d'agneau, 

quarter  of  lamb. 
Quasi  de  Veau,  /.     Name  given  to  a  piece  of  veal  cut  from 

the  end  of  the  loin. 
Quenelles,  /.     Forcemeat  of  different  kinds,  composed  of  fish, 

poultry  or  meat,  eggs,  fat,  &c.,  shaped  in  various  forms — balls, 

ovals,  kc     They  are  used  as  garnishing  for  soups  or  entrees, 

or  are  served  separately  as  an  entree. 
Queue,/.     Tail.     "  Queues  de  boeuf,"  "  queues  d'ecrevisses,"  &c. 
Quince,  e.     Going,/.     A  sour  astringent  fruit,  used  for  compotes 

and  marmalade. 
QuooRMA.     Name  of  a  very  mild  Indian  curry  preparation. 

R. 

Rabbit,  e.    Lapin,/. 

Eadi,/.     Radish,  e.     A  salad  plant  with  a  pungent  root. 

Rafraichir,/.     To  refresh  ;  to  cool. 

Ragout,/.     A  rich  stew  of  meat,  highly  spiced. 

Raie,  /     Skate,  e.     A  flat  sea  fish. 

Raifort,/     Horseradish,  e. 

Ramequin,  /.      Cheese  fritter,   a  kind  of    cheese  tartlets   or 

ramakin  ;  ramakins,  e. 
Ramereau,  /     Young  wood  pigeon. 
Raper,/.  '  To  scrape  or  shred. 
Raspberry,  e.     Framboise,  /.     A  fruit  allied  to  the  Bramble  ; 

there  are  two  kinds,  the  red  and  the  white  ;  both  are  used  for 

compotes,  tarts,  and  dessert. 
Ratafie  or  Ratafia.     A  culinary  essence,  being  the  essence  of 

bitter  almonds.     A  special  kind  of  almond  biscuits  in  the 

shape  of  drops  are  called  Ratafies.     The  name  is  also  given 

to  a  liqueur  flavoured  with  almonds. 
Raton,  f.    A  kind  of  cheesecake. 


908  PKACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

Eavigote,/.  a  very  richly  flavoured  green  herb  sauce ;  served 
cold.  First  heard  of  in  1720.  A  French  writer,  Ducereau, 
mentions  it  in  one  of  his  poems. 

Eavioles,  /.  Small  round  paste  dumplings,  filled  with  force- 
meat.    Used  as  garniture  for  soups. 

Eechauffe,  /.     Warmed-up,  meat  re-cooked. 

Ked  Cabbage,  e.  Chou  rouge,  /.  A  species  of  the  common 
cabbage  with  dark  red  leaves,  chiefly  used  for  pickling.  In 
Germany,  France,  and  Switzerland  it  is  prepared  as  a  vege- 
table, when  it  is  shredded  finely  and  stewed  in  rich 
broth. 

Eed  Geouse  or  Moor-fowl,  e.  Perdrix  rouge,  /  A  bird  of 
exquisite  flavour,  sometimes  called  ptarmigan. 

Eed  Mullet,  e.  Rouget,/.  A  highly  esteemed  fish,  called  the 
wood-cock  of  the  sea.  This  fish  should  not  be  gutted ;  the 
trail  is  supposed  to  be  eaten  when  cooked. 

Eeduire,  /.  To  boil  down  ;  to  reduce  ;  to  boil  liquid  gradually 
to  a  desired  consistency. 

Retxe-Claude,/.     Greengage,  e. 

Relever,/.     To  remove;  to  turn  up. 

Releves,  /.     The  removes.     Tlie  remove  joints  or  fish. 

Relish,  e.  Gout  piquante.  A  pleasing  taste ;  to  give  an 
excellent  flavour. 

Remouillage,/.     Second  stock,  e. 

Remoulade,/.  a  cold  sauce,  flavoured  with  savoury  herbs  and 
mustard,  used  as  salad-dressing,  etc. 

Renaissance,/.     A  word  used  for  dishes  of  modern  invention. 

Rennet,  e.  Is  the  name  given  to  the  prepared  inner  mem- 
brane of  a  calf's,  pig's,  hare's,  or  fowl's  stomach,  which  is 
used  for  curdling  milk. 

Restaurant,/.  A  high-class  eating-house.  Originally  the  name 
of  a  soup,  invented  by  a  Frenchman  named  Palissy  in  1557. 
The  soup  consisted  of  finely  minced  fowl  and  broth  highly 
spiced  with  cinnamon,  coriander,  &c.  In  17G5  a  tavern  was 
opened  in  Paris,  under  the  title  Restaurant,  for  the  purpose 
of  supplying  this  wonderful  soup. 

ElCE,  e.  Riz,  /.  An  esculent  grain  of  warm  climates,  largely 
used  throughout  Europe  for  puddings  and  soups.  Although 
highly  nutritious  it  is  not  a  perfect  food,  being  deficient  in 
albuminoids  and  mineral  matters. 

ElCHELiEU  (Armand  Jean).  A  celebrated  gourmet.  French 
general  and  cardinal  during  the  reigns  of  Louis  XIII.  and 
XIV.;  born  1585,  died  1642. 

EiLLETTES,  /.  A  French  savoury  meat  preparation,  used  for 
hors-d'oeuvres  and  savouries. 

Eis  DE  VEAU,/.     Sweetbread,  e. 

EisoTTO.     An  Italian  dish  of  rice  and  cheese. 

Rissole,  EE,/.     Well  browned  or  baked ;  covered  with  crumbs. 


VOCABULARY    OF    TEEMS    USED    IN    COOKERY       909 

Rissoles,  /.  A  mixture  of  minced  fish  or  meat,  enclosed  in 
paste,  half-moon  shapes,  and  fried  in  fat  or  butter. 

RissoLETTES.  Similar  to  Rissoles ;  tliin  pancakes  are  used  in 
place  of  paste. 

RizzEiiED  HADDIE.  Is  the  name  of  a  Scotch  dish,  made  from 
haddocks  or  codfish. 

Robert,/.  Name  of  a  brown  spicy  sauce,  invented  b}'-  a  restaurant 
keeper  cf   that  name  in  Paris,  1789. 

Robes  de  chambee  (en),/,  (in  dressing  gown).  Paper  cases  filled 
with  light  iced  cream  ;  potatoes  cooked  and  served  in  their 
jackets. 

Rocket,  e.     A  salad  plant. 

Roebuck,  e.    Chevreuil,  f. 

RoGNONS,/.     Kidneys,  e. 

RoMAiNE,/.     Coss  lettuce,  d.     A  LA  Romaixe.     Roman  style. 

RoMANKEiNTJES.  A  Dutch  pastry,  made  of  eggs,  sugar,  and 
almonds. 

Rossini.  Name  of  a  famous  musician.  "Filets  a  la  Rossini" 
was  his  own  invention. 

RoTi,  /.     Roast  meat,  poultry  and  game. 

Roulade,  f.    Rolled  meat,  smoked  and  cooked. 

Roux,  /  A  preparation  of  buttefand  flour  browned,  used  for 
making  soups  and  sauces  ;  the  same  mixture  is  also  used 
when  not  browned  for  white  soups  and  sauces,  and  is  like- 
wise called  roux. 

ROYANS.  A  delicately-flavoured  small  fish,  similar  to  sardines, 
preserved  in  oil. 

Rump  (of  beef).     The  buttocks  ;  the  end  of  the  backbone  of  beef. 


S. 

Sabayon,  f.  Pudding  sauce,  composed  of  cream  or  milk,  or 
white  wine,  and  eggs. 

Saignant,/.     Underdone,  e. 

Salade,  /.  Salad,  e.  Raw  herbs,  raw  and  cooked  vegetables, 
etc.,  dressed  with  oil  and  vinegar. 

Salamandre,/  This  is  a  utensi'l  which,  after  being  made  red- 
hot,  is  used  for  browning  any  dishes  that  want  colour. 

Salami.     An  Italian  sausage. 

Saleeatus.  Is  a  kind  of  baking-powder  consisting  of  carbonate 
of  potash,  together  with  an  acid. 

Salisify  or  Salsifits.  Sometimes  called  oyster-plant.  The 
flavour  of  the  root  resembles  somewhat  that  of  the  oyster. 

Sally  Luns  or  Lunns.  Name  of  a  kind  of  teacakes.  Slightly 
sweetened  and  raised  with  brewers'  yeast. 

Salmagundi.    Name  of  a  very  old  English  supper  dish.    It  is 


9iO  PRACTICAL    GASTKONOMY 

a  kind  of  meat  salad,  mixed  and  decorated  with  hard-boiled 
eggs,  anchovy  pickles,  and  beetroot. 
Salmi  or  Salmis.    A  hash  of  game  set  to  finish  cooking  when 

half  roasted. 
Salmon,   e.       Saumon,  /.     A  large   fish;    one    of    the    most 

delicious  and  nutritious  of  the  finny  tribe. 
Salpicox.     a  mince  of  poultry  or  game,  with  ham,  tongue,  and 

mushrooms  ;   used  for  croquettes,  bouchees,  rissoles,  &c. 
Salt,  e.     Du  sel,/.     The  most  needful  and  precious  adjunct  for 

our  food. 
Salzgurkex.     Is  a  German  pickle,  served  with  boiled  or  roast 

meats  ;  made  of  small  cucumbers  soused  in  salt  water. 
Saxbaglioxe.    Is  a  delicious  sweet  chocolate  cream ;  served  in 

glasses  either  hot  or  cold. 
Saxdwich.    a  hors-d'oeuvre.    Two  thin  pieces  of  bread,  butterea, 

with  a  thin  slice  of  meat  or  edible  paste  between  them. 
Saxgaree.     The  name  of  an  Indian  punch  drink.     It  is  made 

with  sherry,  water,  lemon  juice  and  sugar. 
Sanglee,  /.      To  prepare  the  ice  mixture  ready  for  freezing. 

One  part  of  salt  to  five  parts  of  broken  ice  is  the  proper  pro- 
portion used  for  freezing. 
Saxgliee,/.     Wild  boar,  e.     • 
Sapaceau.     An  egg  punch, 

Saebotiere,/.     The  freezing  kettle  or  freezing  pan. 
Sargelle,/,     Teal,  e.     Water-fowl  similar  to  wild  duck. 
Sarriette,/.     Savoy  cabbage,  e. 
Sassafras.     The  name  of  an  agreeable  beverage,  much  drunk  in 

North  America. 
Sassee,  /.     To  stir  rapidly  with  a  spoon  in  a  stewpan. 
Sauce,  /.      Sauce,  e.      A  liquid  served  and  eaten  with  food,  to 

improve  its  relish  and  to  give  flavour.     The  four  great  sauces 

in  the  culinary  art  are  :  Espagnole,  Veloute,  Allemande,  and 

Bechamel. 
Saucer,  /.     To  sauce  a  dish  ;  to  pour  the  sauce  over  anything. 
Sauciere,  /.     A  sauceboat.   A  deep  narrow-shaped  dish  in  which 

sauce  is  served. 
Saucisse,  /.     Fresh  pork  sausages. 
Saucissox,/.     Smoked  sausages. 
Sauerkraut,  g.      Choucroute,  /.      Sourkrout,  e.     A  kind  of 

pickled  cabbage ;    cabbage  preserved  in   brine,     A  national 

dish  of  Germany.     Served  hot  with  bacon  or  sausages, 
Saumon,/.     Salmon,  e. 
Saute  pax.      Sautoire,  /.      A  shallow   thin-bottomed  copper 

frying  pan, 
Sauter  -ee,  /,     To  toss  over  the  fire,  in  a  frying  pan  with  little 

butter  or  fat,  anything  that  requires  sharp  tire  and  quick 

cooking. 
Savarin     (Brillat).    Born  1755.     Famous  gastronomic  writer; 


VOCABULAEY   OF    TERMS    USED    IN    COOKERY      911 

author  of  the  excellent  work  entitled  "  Physiologie  du  Gout, 
ou  Meditations  de  Gastronoinie  transcendante,"  published  after 
his  death.     A  light  spongy  yeast  cake  is  named  after  him. 
Saveloy.     A    kind    of    smoked    pork   sausage ;    it    is   highly 
seasoned,  and  has  an  addition  of  saltpetre  to  give  the  meat  a 
red  colour. 
Scald.     To  scald  milk,  is  to  bring  it  nearly  to  the  boil. 
Score,  to.     To  make  incisions  crossways  on  the  surface  of  fish, 
vegetables  or  meat.     This  is  done  to  facilitate  the  process 
of  cooking  and  thus  improving  the  flavour. 
Scots  Kail.     Name  of   a  thick  broth,  a  kind  of   pnt-au-feu, 
served  as  a  standing  dish  among  the  middle  classes  in  Scot- 
land. 
SCHMORBRATEN,  g.     A  German  dish,  consisting  of  rump  of  beef, 
braised   (k  la   mode   fashion),   garnished   with  mushrooms, 
gherkins,  and  braised  vegetables. 
ScoRZONERA.     A   kind  of  vegetable  root ;  treated  and  served 

like  parsnips  or  salsify. 
Scotch  style.    A  I'Ecossaise,/. 

Seakale.  As  an  article  of  diet,  seakale  is  very  little  known  on 
the  Continent ;  it  grows  wild  in  all  parts  of  Europe.  It  was 
first  grown  in  England  in  the  middle  of  the  eighteenth 
century  by  a  gardener  in  Stoke  Fleming,  who  cultivated  the 
plants,  which  he  found  growing  wild.  They  were  so  much 
appreciated  that  the  gardener's  master  presented  some  of  the 
roots  to  his  friends  at  Bath,  after  which  they  became  popular 
in  all  parts  of  England. 
Seasoning,  e.    Assaisonnement, /. 

Semoule,/.     Semolina,  e.     The  interior  of  wheat  grain. 
Serviette,/.    Table  napkin,  e.    En  serviette,  served  in  a  napkin 

or  dished  up  in  a  napkin. 
Sevigne,  /.      A   French   soup  named   after    the    Marchioness 
Sevigne  of  Eabutin-Chantel,  a  French  authoress,  born  1626, 
died  1696. 
Shank    jelly.     A    kind  of    savoury    jelly,  lightly  seasoned, 

recommended  to  weak  people. 
Sherry  Gobler.     An  American  drink  :  made  with  soda  water, 

sherry,  and  sugar,  a  dash  of  liqueur,  and  a  little  ice. 
Shin  op  beef,  e.     Chinne  de  boeuf,  /.     The  fore  portion  of  a 

leg  of  beef.     Used  for  stock,  for  making  soups,  &c. 
Shred.     Is  to  slice  anything  so  finely  with  a  sharp  knife  that 

the  shreds  curl. 
SiLLSiLLAT.     A  Swedish  dish  ;  a  kind  of  herring  salad. 
Singe  (Singeing),  e.     To  pass  a  plucked  bird  over  a  flame  so 
as  to  burn  off  the  down  which  may  have  been  left  on.     A 
spirit-lamp  is  best  for  this  purpose. 
Singer.     To  dust  with  flour  from  the  dredging  bo.^. 
Sippets.     Small  slices  of  bread  cut  into  different  forms,  fried 

58 


912  PRACTICAL   GASTRONOMY 

or  toasted,  served  as  garnishing  with  meat  entrees,  or  for 
borders  of  savoury  dishes. 
Sirloin,  e.  Aloyeau,/.  The  sirloin  of  beef  is  said  to  owe  its 
name  to  King  Charles  II.,  who,  dining  oflE  a  loin  of  beef, 
and  being  well  pleased  with  it,  asked  the  name  of  the  joint. 
On  being  told,  he  said,  "  For  its  merit,  then,  I  will  knight  it, 
and  henceforth  it  shall  be  called  Sir  Loin."  In  an  old  ballad 
this  circumstance  is  thus  mentioned  : — 

"  Our  Second  Charles,  of  fame  facete. 
On  loin  of  beef  did  dine  ; 
He  held  his  sword,  pleased,  o'er  the  meat, — 
'  Arise  thou  famed  Sir  Loin.' " 

Skewers  for  joints,  etc.    Brochettes,/. 

Snail  (edible).    Escargot,/. 

Snipe,  e.     Becasse,/.     A  small  marsh  bird. 

SOJA.     An  Indian  flavouring  sauce,  very  sharp. 

Sorbet,  /.     An  iced  Turkish  drink ;  also  the  name  of  a  water  ice 

with  fruit  or  liqueur  flavour,  usually  served  in  goblets. 
Sorrel,  e.     Oseille,/. 
SOUBISB,  /.     A  smooth  onion  pulp  served  with  various  kinds  of 

meat  entrees.     The  name  is  supposed  to  come  from  Prince 

Charles  Soubise  (born  1715,  died  1787)  who  was  a  celebrated 

epicure.     He  served  as    field  marshal  during  the  reign  of 

Louis  XIV.  of  France. 
Souffle,  /.     A  \ery  light  baked  or  steamed  pudding  or  omelet. 
Souffle  glace,  /.     A  very  light  sweet  cream  mixture,  iced  and 

served  in  cases. 
Soup,  e.     Potage,  f.     Name  applied  to  thick  or  clear  soups. 
Spaghetti.     A  kind  of  very  small  macaroni. 
Spanish  style.    A  I'Espagnole,  /. 
Sparrow-CtRASS.     Old  name  for  asparagus. 
Spice,  e.     Epice,/. 

Spread  Eagle,  e.  Poulet  ^  la  Crapotine,/.  A  young  fat  chicken, 
split     down     the    back,    flattened,    breast-bone    removed, 
seasoned,  oiled  or  buttered,  and  grilled  or  baked. 
Stechi.     a  Russian  oatmeal  soup. 

Stirabout.     Name  of  an  Irish  dish  similar  to  Scotch  porridge. 
Stock,  e.    Fond,/.     The  broth  in  which  meat  and  bones  have 

been  boiled,  of  which  soups  and  sauces  are  made. 
Succotash.     An  American  dish  made  of  green  maize  and  baked 

beans. 
Sucking  pig,  e.    Cochon  de  lait,/. 
Sucre,/.     Sugar,  e. 

Sugar,  e.  Du  sucre,/.  A  sweet  substance  manufactured  from 
the  pieces  of  the  sugar  cane  or  other  plants.  An  article  of 
general  consumption. 


VOCABULARY   OF   TERMS    USED    IN    COOKERY      913 

Supreme,  /.   A  rich,  delicately  flavoured  white  cream  sauce,  made 

from  chicken  broth. 
Suzanne    (Alfred).     Name  of  a  French  chef,  an  authority  on 

the  culinary  treatment  of  eggs.      Author  of  "  Egg  Cookery : 

over  150  ways  of  cooking  and  serving  Eggs;"   and  "One 

Hundred  Ways  of  Cooking  Potatoes." 
Sweet  dishes,  e.     Entremets  (de  douceur),/. 
Syllabub.     A  kind  of  milk  punch  iiavrured  with  liqueurs  and 
spices.     Usually  served  in  glasses. 


T. 

Table  d'hote.    The  table  at  which  the  principal  meals  at  an 

hotel  or  restaurant  are  served  to  guests;    a  common  table 

for  guests  ;  an  ordinary. 
Table  napkin,  e.     Serviette,/. 

Tagliarini.     a  kind  of  macaroni  paste  cut  in  fine  shreds. 
Tailler  la  Soupe,/.     a  culinary  expression.     Thin  slices  or 

crusts  of  bread  placed  in  a  soup  tureen  are  called  tailler. 

'*  Tremper  la  soupe "  is  the  French  term  applied  when  the 

broth  is  poured  over  the  slices. 
Taillevent.     Name  of  a  clever  artist  in  cookery  who  superin- 
tended the  kitchens  of  Charles  VII.  of  France  from  1430  to 

1461.     Inventor  of  a  sweet  soup,  called  "potage  dore,"  the 

recipe  of  which    is  anything    but  recommendable   for   the 

present  time. 
Talleyrand.     Several  high-class  dishes  are  styled  thus.     The 

name  comes  from  an  old  French  ducal  family. 
Tamis,  /.     Tammy,  e.     Woollen  canvas  clotli  which  is  used  for 

straining  soups  and  sauces. 
Tansy,  e.     An  herb  with  strong  aromatic  flavour,  sometimes  used 

for  flavouring  in  puddings. 
Tarragon,  e.     Estragon,/. 
Tartars,/.     A  cold  sauce,  made  of  yolks  of  eggs,  oil,  mustard, 

capers,  gherkins,  .tc,  served  with  fried  fish  or  cold  meats  ; 

also  a  salad  dressing. 
Tendrons,/.     Name  applied  to  gristles  of  veal,  &c. 
Terrapin.     Small  American  turtle. 
Terrine,  /.     China  pan  or  pot,  used  for  pates  and  for  potted 

meats. 
Tetb  de  Veau,/.     Calf's  head,  e. 
Therid.     An  Arab  word  for  a  soup.     Principal  ingredients  used 

are  :  broth,  olive  oil,  eggs,  vinegar,  and  bread  crumbs. 
Timbale,/.     Literally,  "kettle-drum";  a  kind  of  crusted  hash 

baked  in  a  mould. 
Toast.     Dried  and  scorched  slices  of  bread. 
Tobasco.     Name  of  a  savoury  Indian  sauce. 


914  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

Toddy,    An  American  punch. 

Tom  and  Jerry.    An  American  drink  ;  an  egg  punch. 

Tomatoes,  e.  Tomates  /.  Also  called  love  apples  (pommes 
d'amour),  from  the  Italian  Pomi  di  mori  (apples  of  the  moors). 

ToMBER  A  GLACE,/.  To  reduce  a  liquid  until  it  has  the  appear- 
ance of  a  thick  syrup. 

TOPINAMBOUES,/.     Jerusalem  artichokes,  e. 

ToETUE,/.     Turtle,  £?. 

Toulouse  (a  la),/.  A  rich  white  stew  of  white  meats,  mush- 
rooms, truffles,  &c.,  used  for  filling  crusts  or  for  garnishing. 

TouRNEDOS,  /  Small  thin  fillets  of  beef  served  as  entries. 
First  served  in  Paris  in  1855. 

TouRNER,/     To  stir  a  sauce  ;  also,  to  pare  and  cut  roots. 

TouRTE,/     An  open  tart  baked  in  a  round  shallow  tin. 

TouRTELETTES,/.     Small  tartlets,  e. 

Tranche,/.     Slice,  e. 

Trancher,/     To  cut ;  to  carve. 

Teautmannsdoeff.  Name  of  an  Austrian  Count,  born  1749, 
died  1827.     Several  sweets  a'-e  styled  after  his  name. 

Trifles.  A  dish  of  sweetmeats  and  cake.  A  second  course 
dish  of  cakes,  biscuits,  jams,  &c. 

Trim,  e.  To  pare ;  to  cut  off  portions  of  meat  or  vegetables  in 
order  to  improve  their  appearance. 

Teousser,/     To  truss  a  bird. 

Teuffee,/.  To  garnish  a  sauce  with  truffles,  or  to  season  the 
interior  of  poultry  or  game  with  truffle  stuffing,  such  as 
capons,  turkeys,  and  pheasants. 

Truffles,  e.  Truffes,  /  A  fungus  of  the  same  order  as  the 
mushroom.  They  grow  in  clusters  of  an  irregular  globular 
form  under  roots  of  young  trees  (oak,  nut,  and  a  few  other 
trees).  There  are  three  kinds,  the  black,  the  grey,  and  the 
red.  The  latter  is  musk  scented  and  ver}--  rare.  The  former 
two  are  mostly  used  for  garnish  and  other  culinary  purposes. 
The  South  and  West  of  France  produce  the  best  kinds. 
Trained  pigs  and  dogs  are  employed  to  find  truffles.  Perigueux 
and  Carpentras  are  the  most  famous  districts  in  France. 

Teuite  saumonee,  /.     Salmon  trout,  e. 

Truss,  e.  To  tie  a  bird,  &c.,  wath  string  in  such  a  manner  as  to 
keep  it  in  perfect  shape  during  the  process  of  cooking. 

TuEBAN,  /  Ornamental  entrees  of  chicken  and  forcemeat, 
dressed  in  the  form  of  a  turban,  which  verbally  means  a 
hair- dress  W')rn  in  the  East. 

Tuekey,  e.     Dinde,  /,     The  largest  species  of  domestic  fowls. 

TuEN,  e.  To  trim  or  pare  vegetables  or  fruit  into  neat  round  or 
oval  shapes. 

TUENER,/.     To  stir  a  sauce  ;  also,  to  pare  and  cut  roots 

Turnips,  e.     Navets,/ 

Turtle.     The  turtle  was  first  brought  to  FiUgland  in  the  middle 


VOCABULARY    OF    TERMS    USED   IN    COOKERY       915 

of  the  seventeenth  century.  Its  first  appearance  as  an 
edible  dish  is  repulsive.  We  learn  from  Sir  Hans  Sloane 
that  at  the  beginning  of  the  last  century  turtle  was  only 
eaten  in  Jamaica  by  the  poor. 

Tutti-frutti.  An  Italian  expression  for  various  kinds  of 
fruits,  or  a  mixture  of  cooked  vegetables. 

Tyrolienne  (a  la),  f.     T}Tolean  style. 

U. 

Ude  (Louis  Eustache).  A  famous  chef,  at  one  time  cook  to 
Louis  XVI.  and  the  Earl  of  Sefton.  Author  of  "  The  French 
Cook." 

Usquebagh.  The  name  of  an  Irish  beverage,  consisting  of  a 
compound  spirit  made  with  spices  and  sugar. 

V. 

Vanille,/.  Vanilla,  e.  The  fruit  of  a  fragrant  plant ;  the  most 
delicate  flavouring  for  all  kinds  of  sweet  dishes. 

Vanille  (a  la),/.     Vanilla- flavoured. 

Vanneau,/.     Plover;   lapwing;    pev/it, 

Vanner,  /.  To  stir  a  sauce  quickly,  so  as  to  work  it  up  lightly, 
in  order  to  make  it  smooth. 

Vatel.  Name  of  a  clever  and  ingenious  chef,  who  acted  in  that 
capacity  in  the  service  of  Louis  XIV.  of  France.  He  took 
his  life  because  the  fish  for  the  royal  banquet  did  not  arrive 
in  time.      Dishes  "  a  la  Vatel  "  are  much  appreciated. 

Veau,/.     Veal,  e.     The  flesh  of  the  calf. 

Vegetables.     Legumes,/. 

Veloute,  /.  A  rich  white  sauce  with  mushroom  juice,  often 
used  to  improve  the  flavour  of  soups  or  made  dishes. 

Venaison,/.     Venison,  e. 

Venitienne  (a  la),/     Venetian  style,  e. 

Vermicelle,/.  Vermicelli,  it.  Very  fine  rolls  of  paste,  made 
from  the  dough  of  wheat  flour,  and  forced  through  cylinders 
or  pipes  till  it  takes  a  slender  worm-like  form,  when  it  is 
dried;  used  in  soups,  puddings,  and  for  crumbing. 

Vert-pre,/     Name  of  a  green  herb  sauce. 

ViANDE,/.     Meat,  viands,  e.     Meat ;  dressed  victuals. 

ViENNOJSB  (A  LA).     Vienna  style. 

ViN  BLANC  (AU),/     Done  in  white  wine. 

ViNAiGRE,/.     Vinegar,  e.     Vinaigrer,  to  season  with  vinegar. 

Vinaigrette,/,     a  sauce  of  vinegar,  oil,  pepper,  and  herbs. 

VoLAiLLE,/.     Poultry,  e. 

Vol-au-vent,/.  a  light  round  puff  paste  crust,  filled  with  deli- 
cately flavoured  ragouts  of  chicken,  sweetbread,  etc.  (a  la 
Jinanciere). 


916  PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 

VOLIEEE.     Birdcage  style  of  dressing  poultry  or  game. 
VoPALLiERE.     A    dish    of    small    chicken    fillets,  larded  and 

braised,  served  with  truffle  sauce. 
Vraie  tortue,/.    Real  turtle,  e. 


W. 

Wafers,  e.    Waffeln,  ^.     Gaufres,/. 

Whelk,  e.    A  shell  fish ;  called  the  poor  man's  delicacy.    Known 

to  be  most  indigestible  as  a  food. 
Whey,  e.     Petits  lait,/.     The  coagulated  portion  of  milk,  used 

as  a  cooling  bevera.ee. 
Whitebait,  e.     Blancheille,/. 
White  stew,  e.    Blanquette,/. 
Whiting,  e.     Merlans,/. 
Widgeon,  e.    Sarcelle,/. 
Woodcock,  e.     Coq  de  bruyere,/. 

X. 

Xavieb.  Name  of  a  clear  soup.  Supposed  to  have  been  intro- 
duced by  King  Louis  XVIII.  in  honour  of  Count  Xavier  of 
Saxony,  who  died  in  1806. 

Xeres.  Spanish  strong  wine  of  deep  amber  colour  and  aromatic 
flavour ;  so  called  from  Xeres,  a  place  near  Cadiz. 

Y. 

Yeast,  e.  Levain  ;  levure,/.  Also  called  Barm.  It  is  added  in 
small  quantities  to  flour  for  making  dough  intended  to 
ferment,  in  order  to  quicken  the  process. 

Young  wild  boar,  e.    Marcassin,/. 

Z. 

Zabajone  (Italian).      A   frothing  mixture    of  wine,   yolks  of 

eggs,  and  sugar,  thickened  over  the  fire,  and  served  hot  in 

glasses. 
Zambaglione.     a  kind  of  chocolate  cream  ;  served  in  glasses, 

either  hot  or  cold. 
Zephire,  f.     Name  of  smaU  oval-shaped  forcemeat  dumplings,  a 

kind  of  quenelles,  which  are  poached  and  served  with  a  rich 

sauce. 
ZUPPA  AL  beodo.     a  fish  broth  with  toasted  bread  and  cheese. 
Zythum.     a  liquid  made  from  malt  and  wheat ;  a  kind  of  malt 

beverage. 


INDEX. 

(^FoT  Index  of  Kecherche  Cookery  Eecipes  see  pj^,  693-702.) 


ABE 

Page 
Abergavenny's,  Lady,  cheese  .  20 
Agneau  entrees  (lamb  eu trees;     183-194 

Releves,  &c.  (removes,  &c.)        130-131 

Rotis  (roasts)        ....    251 
Aigrefin,    merluche    (fresh     had- 
dock)   109,  117 

Anglo-Saxon  customs       ...      16 

Angnille  (eel) 109 

Ape,  as  a  dish 13 

Aphorism,  gastronomy  in  the  form 

of  an 52-54 

Argillon,  Robert,  a  noted  cook  .  36 
Aristotle  and  the  kitchen  .  .  47 
Artichauts  (artichokes)  .  .  255-257 
Artichokes  (artichauts)  .        .     255,  256 

Jerusalem  (topinambours)  .     282,  283 
Asparagus  ( asperges)       .        .      257-259 

Soup,  recipe 538 

Asperges  (asparagus)  .  .  257-259 
Aubergines  (egg  plants)  .  .  .  259 
AustraUan  wines  (vins  d'Australie)    842 


Banbury,  cake        ....      20 

Barbue  (brill) Ill 

Beans,  broad  (ffeves  de  marais)  .  268 
French  (haricots  verts)  .  .  268 
White  haricot  (haricots  blancs)  .    268 

Beef  (boeuf )       ....      477-559 

Entrees 169-183 

Removes,  &c.  (releves,  &c.)  .      127-130 
Roasts  (rotis)         .         .         .    251,560 

Beignets,  &c.  (fritters,  &c.)    .     313,  314 

Berri,  Duchesse  de,  her  culinary 

inventions 17 

Bills  of  fare,  two  (1692,  1782) .        .      22 
(SVff  also  Menus,  dinner,  lun- 
cheon     AND     SUPPER.       Also 
p.  341 

Biscuits,  French  and  Swiss     . 
Recipes 

Blancmanges  (blancmangers) 

Boar's  head,  a  royal  dish 

Boeuf  entrees  (beef  entrees) 


Releves,  (fee.  (removes,  &c.)  . 


336,  337 

.     675 

.     316 

.       15 

169-183 

515-523 

127-130 


cel 

Boeuf  entrees — cont.  Page 

Rotis  (roasts)  .  .  .  251,  560 
Boiled  dishes,  classical  quotations 

for 481 

Rice  for  curries  ....  369 
Boiling,  notes  on  .  .  .  .71-74 
Books  on  Cookery  .  12,  18,  19,  21-24 
Boswell,  his  dictum  on  the  cook    .      38 

Bouchees 137 

See  also  Petitbs  bouchees 

Boudins,  &c 135, 136 

Braising,  notes  on  .  .  .  79, 80 
Breakfast  dishes,  recipes  .        .     646-674 

Brill  (barbue) Ill 

Brillat-Savarin,  his  opinion  of  the 
cook,  45;  his  maxims  on  gastro- 
nomy           54-56 

Britons,  ancient,  customs  of  the  .  16 
Broad  beans  (feves  de  marais)  .  268 
Brochet  (pike)  ....  110 
Broiling,  notes  on  .  .  .  81, 82 
Brussels  sprouts  (choux  de  Brux- 

elles) 264 

Burgundy  (Crus  de  Burgoyne)  .  840 
Burt  (limande)         .        .        .        .116 


Cabbages  (choux)  .        .        .     264-266 
CabiUaud  (codfish)  .        .        .        .112 
Cakes  (gateaux)       .        .      309,  310, 675 
Cambaceres  and  the  Duke  of  Wel- 
lington        30 

Canard  (duck),  entrees  .  .  212,  213 
Canetons  (ducklings),  entrees     214,  215 

Cannelons 138 

Capons  or  capon  pullets  (chapons), 

entrees  ....  215-217 
Gardens (cardoons) ....  259 
Careme,  Antonin,  a  famous  chef  851-854 
Garottes  (carrots)    ....     260 

Carp  (carpe) 113 

Carrelet  (flounder)  .  .  .  .113 
Carrots  (carottes)  ....  260 
Carving,  notes  on  .  .  .  471,572 
Cauliflower  (chou-fleur)  .  .  .265 
Celeri  (celery)  ....  261,  262 
Celeriac  (celery  knobs)    .        .        .    266 


918 


PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 


CEL 

Page 

Celery  (celeri)  ....     261,  262 

Knobs  (celeraic)  ....    266 

Cliampagae 475 

Champignons  (musliroom?)    .     262, 263 
Ohapous  (capons),  entrees       .     215-217 

Chai-iottes 312 

Chaucer  and  the  kitchen         .        .      48 
Cheese  savouries       ....    334 
Chefs  and  epicures,  famous     .     849-865 
Careme,  Antouin  .         .        .     851-854 
Fraucatel.i,  Charles  E. .        .    862,  863  1 
Johnson,  Dr.  Samuel    .        .        .    850  I 
Kitchiner,  Dr.  WiUiam         .        .     849  j 
Parmentier.  Antoiue  A.        .     867,868; 
Pouard,  Eugene    .        .     866,  867,  868  I 
Sover,  Alexis         .         .         .     858-861 \ 
Suzanne,  Alfred    .        .        .     864,  865  ', 
Ude,  Lonis  Eustache     .         .     855-857  ] 
Chicken  entrees  (ix)ulet  entrees) 

226-237,  &35 
Chicory  or  eu'live  (chicoree)  .  .  264  | 
Chinese,  diet  and  customs  of  the  .  60 
Desci-iption  of  a  feast .  .  .61  sq. 
ChoucrouT>e  (sourcrout)  .  .  .  264 
Choux,  &c.  (cabbages,  &c.)  .  .  264 
Citrouille  (pumpkin)  .  .  .  266 
Claret  (Bordeaux),  notes  on  .  .  839 
Clerc,  .Jean,  on  cookery  .  .  .11 
Cod,  salt  (morue)  .  .  .  .118 
Codfish  (cabillaud)  .  .  .  .112 
Coelius  Apician,  a  Konian  cook        .      12 

Coffee 469 

Lines  on  the  defeat  of,  ib. 
Cold  entrees,  recipes  .        .        .     477-501 
Cold  sweats  and  ices,  recipes      .     621-645 
Compotes  de  fruits  (stewed  fruits") 

316,317 
Concombres  (cucumbers)  .  266,  267 
Consommes  (clear  soups)  .  95-100 
Cook,  the  derivation  of  and  equiva- 
lents for  the  word,  35  ;  held  in 
high  esteem  by  om*  forefathers, 
35  sq.  :  honours  and  land  be- 
stowed on,  36  ;  triumphs  of,  in 
ancient  days,  37 ;  Boswell's 
dictum  on,  38 ;  influence  of, 
on  historical  events,  38  sq.; 
RejTiiereon,  39  ;  what  we  owe 
to  the  cook,  40  ;  character  and 
duties  of,  40  sq. ;  effects  of  al- 
cohol on,  41 ;  indispensable 
characteristics  of,42  sq. ;  Diony- 
sius,  BriUat-Savarin,  and  the 
Marquis  de  Cussy  on,  45 ; 
famous  authorities  on,  46  ;  the 
future  of,  46  sq.;  the  cook  in 
proverb,  50 ;  his  ten  cardinal 
virtues,  51 
Cookery,  ancient  and  modem,  11 ; 


CRO 

Cookery — cont.  Page 

the  Eomans  and  the  art  of,  16.  ; 
an  ancient  sauce,  12  ;  some 
famous  Roman  epicures,  ib.; 
a  culinary  delicacy  in  1509, 
13  ;  soups  of  the  fifteenth  cen- 
tury, ib.\  ancient  tribes  and 
their  tastes,  ib.;  meals  and  fa- 
vourite dishes  of  the  Romans, 
14 ;  culinary  practices  among 
the  Normans,  14  sq. ;  customs 
of  ancient  Britons  and  Anglo- 
Saxons,  16  sq. ;  some  famous 
French  epicures,  17  ;  an 
eighteenth  century  kitchen 
staff,  18  sq. ;  books  on  cookery, 
19,  21-24  ;  progress  of  the  art 
in  various  countries,  20 ;  cu- 
rious advice  to  ladies  and  cliil- 
dren,  22  ;  French  and  English 
cookery  compared,  23  sqq. ; 
sumptuous  feasts  of  the  olden 
times,  27  sqq.;  Massinger  on 
the  extravagance  of  our  fore- 
fathers, 28 ;  prices  in  the 
thirteenth  century,  ib.  ;  an 
'"amble  pie,"  29;  the  heroic 
days  of  feasting,  ib.;  the  Duke 
of  Weliington  and  cookery,  ib. ; 
abnormal  and  diseased  appe- 
tites, ZOsq,;  an  old  Scotch 
"  grace,"  31  ;  the  tongue  and 
the  sense  of  taste,  32  sqq.  See 
also  England  ;  English  cook- 
ery ;  France,  COOKERY  in  ;  &c. 
Cookery,  high-class  and  domestic  — 
recent  progress  in  high-class, 
65  ;  backward  state  of  domes- 
tic, 66  ;  the  advantages  of 
eflBcient  cookery,  67  sqq.  ;  notes 
on  boiling,  71  sqq.  ;  roasting, 
74  sqq.;  ste\ving,  76  sq. ;  frying, 
77  sqq.  ;  braising,  79  sq. ;  broil- 
ing and  grilling,  81  sq.  ;  salads 
and  salad  dressing,  82  sqq. ; 
vocabulary  of  terms  used  in  871-910 

Coquilles 137,13a 

"  Cordon  bleu,  le  "  ....  870 
"Cordon  rouge,  le"  .  .  .  .  868 
Cornets,  &c.,  wiiipped  creams  for   .    319 

Crakovys 140 

Creams  (crcmes)      ....    316 

Ices(glaces)         .        .        .      319-321 

Whipped  (cremes  fouettees)  for 

meringues,  cornets,  &c.     ,        .    319 

Cremes.    See  Creams 

Crepinettes        .....    137 

Cromesquis 139 

Croquettes 139 

Croustades        ....     136,  137 


INDEX 


919 


CRU 

Page 
Cms  de  Bordeaux  ....  84U 
Crus  de  Burgoyne  (Burgnudy)  .  840 
Cucumbers  (concombres)  .  266,  267 
Culinary  dictiouary         .      587,  588,  H71 

Telephone,  63  iq. 
Cussy,  Marquis  de,  on  the  cook       .      45 

Darioles 140 

Dessert 335-338 

Biscuits,    names    of    Swiss    and 
French       ....     336,  337 

Fromages  (cheeses)      .        .        .    338 

Piece:?  montees  ....  337 
Dictionary,  culinary  .  .  871-910 
Dinde  (turkey),  entrees  .  ,  217-220 
Dionysius,  his  lines  on  the  cook  .  45 
Dishes.     See    Made  ;     Savoury  ; 

Side  ;  and  Sweet  dishes. 
Domestic  cookery.     See  Cookery, 

High-class  and  domestic. 
Dressed  fish,  recipes  .        .        .    45b 

Dressed  vegetables,  recipes         .        .    57i) 
Duck,  a  Roman  delicacy  .        .      14 

Entrees  (canard  entrees)  .  212,213 
Duckling  (caneton),  entrees  .  214,  215 
Dudley,  the  late  Earl  of,  his  fare 

for  an  Emperor  ...      25 

Eel  (anguille) 109 

Egg  plants  (aubergines)  .        .    259 

Savouries  (ceuf  savoureux)       328-332 
Elemfnlary  methods  caul  rules         .    354 
Endive  or  chicory  (chicoree)  .        .    264 
England,    confections   on    sale   in 
(1569),  20  ;  her  taste  for  French 
dishes    in     tlie      seventeenrh 
century,  20  ;  style  of  laying  the 
table  in      .        .        .  "     .        .    470 
English  cookery,  books  on,  21  sqq.  ; 
in  Queen  Elizabeth's  reign,  23  ; 
Pope  on,  24  ;  Thackeray's  lines 
on,  25  ;  comparison  of  French 

and 26 

English  words  used  in  cookery  871,  910 
Entrees  .  .  .  135-250, 477-559 
Agneau  (lamb)  .  .  183-194, 5^^ 
Bceuf  (beef)  .  .  .  169-183, 515 
Froides  ( cold)  .  .  144-147,  t/79 
Game  (gibier)  .  .  237-250, 549 
Lamb  (agneau)  .  .  183-194, 524 
Legeres  (light)  .  .  135-143,6^6 
Mouton  I  mutton)  .      194-206,  5:?7 

Pore  (pork)   .         .        .      206-211,  5<32 
Poultry  (volaille),  212-237.    See 

also  Poultry, 
Yeau  (veal)  .         .       148-168, 502-515 
Volaille  (poultry)        .   212-237,  532 
See  also  Volaille. 


FIS 

Page 
Entries,  classical  quotations  for  .  485 
Entremets,  savoureux,  &c.  (savoury 

dishes,  &c.)  .  .  322-324,  646 
Fariueux  et    mets  (farinaceous 

foo<l) 332-334 

Fromage  (cheese)  .  .  .  334 
CEufs  (eggs)  ....  328-332 
Omelettes,  &c.  (omelets,  &c.)  327,  328 
Legumes  (vegetables) .  .  325-327 
Poissons,  &c.  (fish,  &c.)  .  322-324 
Entremets     de     douceur     (sweet 

dishes)  ....  305-322 
Beignets,  &c.  (fritters,  &c.)  313,  314 
Blaucmaugers  et  cremes  .  .  316 
Charlottes  ....  312, 313 
Compote  de  fruits  (stewed  fruits) 

316,  317 
Cremes  f  ouettees(  whipped  creams)  319 
Croiites  aux  fruits  .  .  315,316 
Fruits  au  riz,  crotites,  &c.  (fruits 

with  rice,  crusts,  &c.)  .  314,  315 
Gateaux  (cakes)  .  .  .  309,  310 
Gel(^es,  &c.  (jellies,  &c.)  .  317,  318 
Glaces,  cremes  (ices,  creams)  319-321 
Glaces  de  fruits  (fruit  water-ices) 

321,  322 

Poudings  (puddings)   .        .      305-308 

Souffles  et  omelettes     •        .     308,  309 

Eperlans  (smelt)      .        .        .        .113 

Epicures,  famous    chefs  and.    See 

Chefs  axd  Epicures,  famous. 

Epinards  (spinach) .        .        .        .    267 

Esturgeou  (sturgeon)       .        .        .    114 


Farinaceous  food  savouries  (fari- 

neux  et  mets  savoureux).      332-334 
Feasts,    sumptuous,  of  the   olden 

time 27-34 

Feves  de  marais  (broad  beans)        .    268 

Fish  (poissons)         .         .        .      109-126 

Brill  (barbue)        .        .        .        .111 

116 
113 
112 
118 
1U9 
113 
118 


Burt  (limande) 

Carp  (carpe) 

Codfish  (cabillaud) 

Cod,  salt  (morue)  . 

Eel  (anguiUe) 

Flounder  (carrelet) 

Grayling  (ombre) 

Haddock,  fresh,  dried  (merluche 

ou  aigrefin)        ,        .        .      109-117 
Herring  (hareng)  .        .        .     114 

Lamprey  (lamproie)  .  .  .116 
Lobster  ( homard)  .  .  .115 
Mackerel  (maquereaux)  .  .116 
MuUets,  red  (rougets)  .  .  .119 
Mussels  (monies)  .  .  .  .118 
Oysters  (huitres)  .  ,  .  .115 
Pike  (brochet)      .        .        .       .110 


920 


PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 


FIS 

Fish  (poissons) — cont.  Page 

Plaice  (pUe) lis 

Recipes  ....      455-478 

Salmon  (saumon)         .        .        .    120 
Savouries       ....     322, 323 

Skate  (raie) 119 

Smelt  (eperlans)  ....    113 

Sole  (sole) 122 

Sterlet 124 

Sturgeon  (esturgeon)  .        .        .114 

Tench  (tanche)     .        .        .        .124 

Trout  (truite)        .        .        .        .125 

Turbot  (turbot)    .        .        .        .125 

Whiting  (merlan)         .        .        .     117 

Forcemeals,  recipes    ....    441 

Flounder  (carrelet)  .        .        .        .113 

Francatelli,  Charles  E.,  a  famous 

cook 862-863 

France,  Cookery  in,  in  1791,  18; 
progress  of  the  art  of  cookery 
in,   20,  23  ;  Italian    delicacies 
introduced  into,  20;  her  cookery 
compared    with  English,  26  ; 
the  potato  in      ...        .     868 
French  Ijeans  (haricots  verts)     268,  269 
Biscuits,  names  of         .        .     336, 337 
Revolution,     influence     of,     on 
culinary  art        .        .        .        .17 

White  wines 841 

Words  used  in  cookery         .     871,  910 

Friandines 140 

Fritters,  &c.  (beignets,  &c.)    .     313,  314 
Fromages  (cheeses)  .        .        .        .338 

Savoureux 334 

Water-ices  (glaces  de  fruits)     321,  322 
Fruits,  stewed  (compotes  de  fruits) 

316,  317 
With  rice,  crusts,  &c.  (fruits  au 
riz,  croutes,  &c.)       .        .      314-316 
Frying,  notes  on      .        .        .         77-79 


Game  entrees  (gibier  entrees)  237-250 
Four-footed  ....  245-250 
Wild  poultry  (volaille  sauvage) 

237-244 
Game  removes,  &c.  (gibier  releves, 

&c.) 134,  135  \ 

.     252 

444-454 

.       12 

an  j 

52-54 

309,  310  ! 

317,  318  j 

.    477 


Game  (gibier)  roasts 
Garnitures  and  decorations 
Garum,  a  Roman  sauce   . 
Gastronomy  in    the    foi'm  of 
aphorism   .... 
Gateaux  (cakes) 
Gelees,  &c.  (jellies,  &c.)  . 
German  wines,  note  on    . 

List  of,  ih. 
Gibier  entrees  (game  entrees) 
Quadrupede 


237-250 
245-250 


KIT 

Gibier  entrees — cont.  Page 

Volaille     sauvage     (wild 
poultry)  .        .        .     237-244 

Relev6s,  &c,  (game  removes,  &c.) 

134, 135 

Rotis  (game  roasts)  .  .  .  252 
Glaces,  cremes  (ices,  creams)  .      319-321 

De  fruits  (fruit  water-ices)  321-322 
Glasse,  Mrs.,  on  the  art  of  boiling  .  72 
Groose,  a  Roman  delicacy         .        .      14 

Entrees  (oie  entrees)  .  .  220-222 
"  Goose,  sauce  for  the,"  recipe  for  .  49 
Grace,  a  curious  Scotch  ...  31 
GrayUng  (ombre)  ....  118 
Greek  wines  (vins  grecs)  .  .  842 
Grilling,  notes  on      .        .        .        81,  82 


Haddocks,  fresh    (aigrefln,   mer- 

luche)  ....  109,  117 
Hareng  (herring)  .  .  .  .114 
Haricot    beans,    white    (haricots 

blancs) 268 

Haricots  verts  (French  beans)  268,  269 
Hazlitt,  W.  Carew,  on  the  Roman 

clergy  and  the  culinary  art  .  12 
Henry,  Duke  of  Brunswick  (1541), 

originator  of  the  menu  card  .  705 
Herring  (hareng)  ....  114 
Hints  on  carving  ....  571 
Hog  barbecued  ....  20 
Homard  (lobster)  ....  115 
Hop  sprigs  (jets  de  houblons)  .  269 
Hors  d'oeuvres,  classical  quotations 

for 844 

Chauds  (hot  side-dishes)  .  135-143 
Froids  et  mets  divers  (prepared 

side-dishes,  cold)       .        .         92-94 

Recipes 375 

Simples  (plain  side-dishes)  .  89-91 
Houblons,  jets  de  (hop  sprigs),  .  269 
Huitres  (oysters)      ....    115 


Ices,  creams  (glaces,  cremes)     319-321 
Ices,  7'ecipes  ....      639-645 

Indian  pillaw 142 

Italy  and  the  culinary  art       .        .      20 

Jellies,  &c.  (gelees,  &c.)        .     317,  318 
Jerusalem     artichokes    (topiuam- 

bours)         ....     282,  283 

Kitchen,  an  eighteenth  century 
kitchen  staff,  18  sq.;  early  use 
of  the  word  kitchen,  47  ; 
Aristotle,  Spenser,  Chaucer, 
and  Shakspeare  on  the,  48  ; 
maxims  for  the         ...      58 


INDEX 


921 


LAI 

Page 
Laitues  (lettuces)  .        .        .        .269 
Lamb  entr6es  (agneau  entrees)    183-194 
RemoTes,  &c.  (agneau  relevfe) 

130,  131 
Roasts  (agneau  rotis)  .        •        .    251 
Lamprey  (lamproie)         .        .        .    116 
Legume       savoui-eux     (vegetable 

savouries)  .        .        .      325-327 

Legumes  (vegetables)  .  .  255-284 
Artichauts  (artichokes)  .  255-257 
Asperges  (asparagus)  .  .  257-259 
Aubergines  {egg  plants)  .  .  259 
Cardons (cardoous)  .  •  .  259 
Garottes  (carrots)  .  .  .  260 
Celeri  (celery)  .  .  .261,  262 
Celeriac  (celery  knobs)         .        .    266 

C^pes 262 

Champignons  (mushrooms)  262,  263 
Chicor^e  (chicorv  or  endive)  .  264 
Choux,  &c.  (cabbages,  &c.)  264,  265 
Coufits  au  vinaigre  .  .  .  289 
Concombres  (cucumbers)    .     266,  267 


Epinards  (spinach) 

267 

Feves  de  marais  (  broad  beans)    . 

268 

Haricots  blaucs   (white  haricot 

beans) 

268 

Haricots  verts  (French  beans)    , 

268 

Jets  de  houblons  (hop  sprigs) 

269 

Laitues  (lettuces) 

269 

LentUles  (lentUs) 

269 

Macedoine  de         .... 

269 

Navets  (turnips)  .... 

269 

Pommes  de  terre  (potatoes)      270-280 

Salsifis  (salsifits)  .... 

280 

Tomates  ( tomatoes)      .        .     280-282 

Topinambours  (Jerusalem   arti- 

chokes)     .        .        .        .282 

-283 

Truffles         ....     28^-284 

Lentils  (lentUIes)     .... 

269 

Lettuce  (laitues)       .... 

269 

Limande  (hurt)        .... 

116 

Lobster  (homard)    .... 

115 

Lytton,  Earl  of.     See  Meredith, 

OWEX. 

Macedoine   de    legumes   (mixed 

vegetables)  .  .  .  269,  270 
Mackerel  (maquereaux)  .  ,  .  116 
Maria,  wife  of  Louis  XV.,  and  the 

art  of  cookery  ....  17 
Marin  on  the  science  of  cookery  .  19 
Massinger  on  the  extravagance  of 

our  forefathers  ....  28 
Maxims,    Brillat-Savarin's    gastro- 

nomical,  54,  sq.;  for  the  kitchen, 

57  sq. 
Savouries       ....     322,  323 
Menu,  translating  the      .        .        .836 


MEN 

Page 

Menu  compiler  .  .  .  87-338 
Entrees,  agneau  (lamb)  .  183-194 
Entrees,  boeuf  (beef)  .  .  169-183 
Entrees,  froides  (cold)  .      144-147 

Entries,  gibier  (game)  .  237-250 
Entries,  leg^res  (light)  .  135-143 
Entries,  mouton  (mutton)  .  194-206 
Entrees,  pore  (pork)  .  .  206-211 
Entrees,  veau  (veal)  .  .  148-168 
Entrees,  volaille  (poultry)  .  212-237 
Entremets    de    douceur    (sweet 

dishes)        ....      305-322 
Entremets    savoureux,  &c.   (sa- 
voury dishes,  &c,)     .        .      322-334 
Fish  (poissons)     .        .        .      109-126 
Fruits,   sour,  salads    (salade  de 

fruits  au  viuaigi-e)     .        .        .    289 
Hors      d'oeuvres      (plain     side- 
dishes)         ....        89-91 
Hors  d'oeuvres  chauds  (hot  side- 
dishes)        ....      135-143 
Hors    d'oeuvres    froids   et    mets 

divers  (prepared  side-dishes)  92-94 
Legumes  (vegetables)  .  .  255-284 
Legumes    confits     au     vinaigre 

(vegetable  pickles)  .  .  .  289 
Poissons  (fish)  .  .  .  109-126 
Potages  (soups)  .  .  .  95-109 
Releves  (removes)  .  .  126-135 
Rotis  (roasts)  .  .  .  250-255 
Salades  (salads)  .  .  .  284-288 
De  fruits  au  vinaigre  (sour 
fruit  salads)    .        .        .        .289 

Sauces    290-304 

Sauces  and  forcemeats,  recipes  .  420 
Savoury  dishes,   &c.  (entremets 

savoureux,  &c.)  .  .  322-334 
Savouries,  recipes  ,  .  .  .646 
Side-dishes,  hot  (hors  d'oeuvres 

chauds) 135-143 

Side-dishes,  plain  (hors  d'oeuvres 

froids)  ....  89-91 
Side-dishes,  prepared  cold  (hors 

d'oeuvres  froids  et  mets  divers)92-94 
Soups  (potages)    .        .        .       95-109 

Jiecipes 3S9 

Sweet  dishes  (entremets  de  dou- 
ceur)        305-322 

Vegetable  pickles  (legumes  con- 
fits  au  vinaigre)         .        .        .    289 
Vegetables  (legumes)  .        .     255-284 
Menus    (bills  of    fare)  and  their 

compilation        ....    703 
First  use  of  (1541)        .        .        .705 
Lines  on  how  to  prepare  a  menu      704 
Early  menu  cards  described,  ib. 
The  importance  of  a  good  menu 

706-710 
The  modern  menu,  706  sq. 


922 


PEACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 


MEN 

Menus  (bills  of  fare) — cont.  Page 

Classical  quotatious  for        .      479-484 
Direci/ions  regarding   the    com- 
position of,  707  sqq. 
Whit  to  avoid       .        .        .        .709 
Menus  of  luncheons,  dinners,  and 

suppers      ....      703-832 
American  fish  dinner   .        .        .    796 
American  private  dinners,  speci- 
mens of      ...        .      755-757 
American     steamship,     literary- 
menu  of  a  dinner      .         .      784-785 
American  Sunday  dinner     .        .    753  j 
American,  typical,  menus    .        .     752  i 
Ancient  menus      ....    817 
Ball    for    7,000    persons  (Paris, 

1823) 828-829 

Ball  supper  .  .  .  742-746,  747 
Banquets  at  fixed  prices  .  722-726 
Baroda,    Gaikwar     of,    English 

supper  to 767 

Ban-isters'  dejeuner  (Marseilles)  813 
Beanfeast  dinner  (Blackpool)  .  813 
Belgian  banquet    to    Procureur- 

G-eneral  van  Schoor  .        .        .     789 
Belgian  railways,   fiftieth   anni- 
versary banquet        .        .        .    788 
Bicycle  club  dinner  (Pittsburgh) 

814,815 
Bismark,  Prince,  farewell  dinner 

of 802 

Budapest     (Holzwarth's    hotel), 

menu  du  diner  ....  791 
Buffet  et  souper  chaud  .  743-745 
Cairo  (Shepheard's  hotel)  iliuner  791 
Charles    Prince    de    Hohenlohe- 

Kirchberg  dinner  (1771)  .  .  822 
Charles  X.  dinner  (St.  Cloud,  1830)  830 
Chinese  bill  of  fare  in  English  .  805 
Christmas  dinner  (Washington)  759 
Christmas   luncheon   (aU  dishes 

composed  of  pork)     .        .        .    797 
Cold  collations       .         .        .     748-751 
Complimentary  farewell  dinner 
to    a     young     lady     named 

Lilian 814 

Ciu-iousbiU  of  fare  (1751)  .  819-820 
Delmonico's     restaurant    dinner 

(New  York)  .  .  .  .760 
Dinners  at  fixed  prices  •  730-732 
Eclectic  Club,  New  York,  dinner 

(1S87) 75i 

English  dinners,  specimens  of  711-712 
English    and    French     dinners, 

specimens  of  ...  .  713 
Exhibition  dinner  (Paris,  1889)  .  787 
Franco-Cxerman  War,  translation 

of  menu  served  in  Paris  during  81 7 
French  Christmas  dinner  .  .  786 
Game  banquet  (Chicago)     .     799-800 


MEN 

Menus  of  luncheons,  &c. — cont.        Page 
George  III.,  Roval  City  banquet 

(1761)  .  '  .  .  .  .823 
German  Emperor   and  Empress, 

English  banquet  to  .  .  .  776 
Gigantic       Parisian       banquet 

(served  to  over  13,000  people)  .  798 
Gorlitz,  banquet  at  .  .  .  801 
Grand  dinner,  menu  of  a,  to  20 

persons,  to  cost  not  less  than 

£500 780 

Henri  II.  d'Orleans,  dinner  (1657)  821 
Honourable  Society  of  the  Inner 

Temple,  banquet  .  .  .  770 
Hotel  dinners  and  luncheons  at 

fixed  prices  .  .  .  719-721 
How    our    ancestors   dined    400 

years  ago 818 

Humorous  menus ....  806 
Italian  menu  (translated)  .  .  803 
Japanese  menu  ....  804 
JodreU,    Sir    Alfred,    supper    to 

(Norwich) 768 

Johnson,  Dr.,  club  dinner,  "  Old 

Cock  Tavern "  .        .        .        .807 

Latin  menu 805 

Lawyer's  brief  bill  of  fare  .  .  806 
Lenten  dinners  .  .  .  737, 738 
London  club  dinners  .  .  35,  717 
Luncheons  and  dinners  at  fixed 

prices,  specimens  of  .  .  714-716 
Luncheons  and  dinners,  English 

mess  catering,  specimen  of  .  739 
Mansion  House  annual  banquet  .  773 
Masonic  banquet  .  .  .  774-775 
Military  dinner  .  .  .  .815 
Monster   dinner   of  the   Societe 

Culinaire        Philantliropique, 

New  Y'ork  ....  778, 779 
Napoleon  III.,  dinner  to,  by  the 

Corporation  of  London  (1855)  832 
Old  English  style,  a  biU  of  fare 

in 819 

Parliamentary  dinner  .  .  .  783 
Political :   Liberal   Union    Club 

dinner 777 

Political :     St.    Stephen's    Club 

banquet  (London)  .  .  .  782 
Prince     Akihito     Komatsu     no 

Muja's  dinner  (Vienna)  .  .  794 
Prince  George  of  Wales,  City  of 

Loudon  dejeuner  to  .  .  .  795 
Prince    of    Wales,    dinners    to 

(Middle  Temple),  402;  (Berlin)  801 
Private  dinners  at  fixed  prices 

727,  728,  734,  735 
Public  dinners  at  fixed  prices    729,  732 
Queen   Victoria,    the   Queen-Re- 
gent of  Spain's  dinner  to.  Villa 

Ayate 792. 


INDEX 


923 


MEN 

Menus  of  luncheons,  &c. — conf.        Page 
Queen  Victoria's  dinner  (Wind- 
sor Castle) 795 

Regimental  banquet  (Dublin)  .  773 
Regimental  dinner  at  fixed  price  773 
Richelieu,  Marechal   de,   dinner 

(1788) 824 

Roumanian  menu  (translated)    .    803 
Royal    Agricultural    Society    of 
England  banquet  (1822), '»27; 

(1889) 771 

Scotch  Sunday  dinner  (Oban)  .  812 
Service  a  la  Fran(,'aise  .  .  .721 
Service  a  la  Russe  .  .  .  736 
Shakespeare's  town,  luncheon  at 

8U8-811 
Shute,  Lieut.-Gen.  Sir  John,  din- 
ner (Dublin,  1831)     .         .        .831 
Society  banquet  (Edinburgh)      .    781 
Su.tan  of  Turkey,  his  dinner  to 
the  Emperor  William  at  Con- 
stantinople        ....    792 
Sunday     dinner     at      Saratoga 

Springs 758 

Swedish  bill  of  fare  .  .  .  8U2 
Swiss  dialect  (humorous),  bill  of 

fare  in 816 

Swiss  historical  dinner  .  .  796 
Table    d'hote    at    fixed    prices 

715-717,  718 
Theatrical  farewell  banquet  to 

Mr.  and  Mrs.  Kendal  .  .  772 
Trans- African  Railway  Co.  dinner  793 
Transatlantic  steamship,  break- 
fasts, luncheon  and  dinners  761-765 
Transvaal  d6jeuner  dinatoire  .  790 
Turkish  menu  ....  804 
United  Law  Clerks'  Society,  57th 

anniversary  festival  .  .  .769 
Vegetarian  dinner  .  .  .  738 
Volapuk,  menu  in .  .  .  .  804 
Wedding  breakfast  (1812)  .  .  82G 
Wilkie,  Sir  Oliver,  curious  menu 

of  a  dinner  to  (1561)         .         .     817 
Wimamson,  Sir  H.,  dinner  (1803)     825 
Mercer,  his  description  of  the  cook      35 
Meredith,  Owen  (Lord  Lytton),  his 

lines  on  cookery         ...      86 
Meringues,    &c.,    whipped   creams 

for 319 

Merlan  (whiting)  .  .  .  .117 
Morue  (salt  cod)  .  .  .  .118 
Moules  (mussels)  ....  118 
Mouton  (mutton)  entrees  .  194-2U6 
Mouton  (mutton)  relev6s,  &c.  .  131, 132 
Mouton  (mutton)  rOtis  .  .  .251 
Mullets,  red  (rougets)  .  .  .119 
Murray  on  the  art  of  boiling  .  .  72 
Mushrooms  (champignons)  .  262,263 
Mussels  (moules)      .        .        .        .118 


POI 

Mutton  {mouton),  recipes. 
Entrees  .        .        .        , 
Removes,  &c. 
Roasts    .        .        .        . 


Page 

.    627 

.      194-206 

131,132,560 

.     251, 560 


Napoleon,  revival  of  the  culinary 

art  under 18 

Navets  (turnips)      ....  269 
Nightingale,  a  Roman  delicacy        .  14 
Normans,  culiaarj^  practices  among  146 
Northumberland,  Earl  of,  his  din- 
ner in  1512         ....  14 

CEiiFS  savoureux   (egg  savouries) 

328-332 
Oie  entrees  (goose  entrees)  .  220-222 
Ombre  (grayling)  ....  118 
Omelets,  savoury  (omelettes  savou- 

reuses)        ....     327,  328 
Orleans,  Regent,  his  culinary  inven- 
tions   17 

Oysters  (huitres)      ....    115 
English,  ancient  use  of,  at  Athens      37 


Parmextter,  Antoiue  A.,  his  in- 
troduction of  the  potato  into 
France       ....     867,  868 
Paste  patties,  small  puff .        .        .    141 
Pastries  and  cakes,  recipes       .        .    675 
Patisserie,  (fee.  (pastry,  &c.)    .     310-312 

Peas,  green 270 

Petites  bouchees       ....    141 

Caisses 141 

Petits  pains 142 

Pates 141 

Pheasant,  a  Roman  dish  .        .        .14 
Pickles,  vegetable  (legumes  confits 

au  vinaigre)  ....  289 
Pieces  moutees  ....  337 
Pigeon  entrees  ....     222-225 

Pike  (brochet) 110 

Pil^au,  a  Turkish  national  dish        .      12 

A  rindienne 142 

Pilchard,  early  culiuarj-  imitation 

of 37 

Plaice  (plie) 118 

Plautus,  his  description  of  the  cook      35 

Plie  (plaice) 118 

Poissons  (fish)  ....     109-126 
Aigrefin,  merluche  (fresh   had- 
dock)       109-117 

Anguille  (eel)  ....  109 
Barbue  (brill)  .  .  .  .111 
Brochet ( pike)  .  .  .  .110 
Cabillaud  (codfish)       .        .        .112 

Carpe  (carp) 113 

CaiTelet  (flounders)      .        .        .113 


924 


PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 


POI 

Poissons  (fish) —con^  Page 

Eperlans  (  smelt)  .  .  .  .  11 3 
Esturgeou  (sturgeon)  .  .  .114 
Hareng  (herring)  .        .        .    114 

Homard  (lobster) .  .  .  .115 
Huitres  (oysters)  ....  115 
Lamproie  (lamprey)  .  .  .116 
Limande  (hurt)  ....  116 
Maquereaux  (mackerel)  .  .  116 
Merlan  (whiting) ....  117 
Morue  (salt  cod)  .  .  .  .118 
Moules  (mussels)  .  .  .  .118 
Ombre  (grayling)         .        .        .    118 

Plie  (plaice) 118 

Raie  (skate) 119 

Rougets  ( red  mullets)  .  .  .  119 
Saumon  (salmon)  .        .        .     120 

Savoureux     ....     322,  323 

Sole  (sole) 122 

Sterlet 124 

Tanche  (tench)     .        .        .        .124 

Truite  (trout)        .        .        .        .125 

Turbot  (turbot)     .        .        .        .125 

Pommes  de  terre  (potatoes)     .      270-280 

Pompadour,  Marquise  de,  and  the 

art'  of  cookery   ....      17 

Pope  on  Bnghsh  cookery         .        .      24 

Pore  entrees  (pork  entrees)     .        .    211 

Releves,  &c.  (pork  removes,  &c.)     132 

Rotis  (pork  roasts)        .        .        .    251 

Pork.    See  PORC. 

Porpoise,  Wolsey's  piece  de  resis- 
tance (loOd)        ....      13 
Porpoi,  as  an  edible .        .        .        .14 
Portugal  dishes        ....      20 
Potages (soups)        .        .        .        85-109 
Consommes  (clear)       .        .        95-100 
Puree  et  potages  lies  (thick)     100-109 
Potato  in  France      ....    504 
Potatoes  (pommes  de  terre)    .      270-280 
Poudings  (puddings),  doux     .      305-308 
Poulet  (chicken  entrees)         .      226-237 
Poultry,  Capons  or  capon  pullets 


SAV 

Page 

Raie  (skate) 119 

Ravioles 143 

Red  mullet  (rouget)         .        .        .119 
Releves,  &c.  (removes,  &c.)    .      126-135 
Removes  and  roasts,  recipes  .     560-571 
Reyniere,  G-rimod  de,  on  a  cook's 
duties,  18  ;  his  sympathy  with 

the  cook 39 

RicheUeu,  Marechal  Duke   de,  his 

culinary  inventions  .        .        .17 

Rissoles 142 

Roasting,  notes  on   .        .        .         74-76 
Roasts  (rotis)   ....      250-255 
Beef  (boeuf)  .        .        .        .251 

Classical  quotations  for  .  .  481 
Game  (gibier)  ....  252 
Lamb  (agneau)  ....  251 
Mutton  (mouton)         .        .        .    251 

Pork  (pore) 251 

Poultry  (volaille)  .        .        .252 

Recipes 560 

Veal  (veau) 250 

Romans,  the,  and  the  culinary  art, 

11  sq.;  their  meals  and  dishes   .      14 
Rose,     Richard,     the    murderous 

cook,  his  fate     ....      38 

Rotis  (roasts)   ....      250-255 

Agneau  (lamb)      ....    251 

Boeuf  (beef) 251 

Gibier  (game)  ....  252 
Mouton  (mutton)  .        .        .    251 

Pore  (pork) 251 

Veau  ( veal) 250 

Volaille  (poultry) .  .  .  .252 
Rougets  (red  mullets)  .  .  .  119 
Rutland,  Countess  of,  her  Banbury 

cake 20 


(chapons) . 
Chickens  (poulets) 
Ducklings  (canetons) 
Ducks  (canards)   . 
Geese  (oies)  . 
Entrees  . 
Pigeons  . 

Removes,  &c.  (releves, 
Roa^^ts  (volaille  rotis) 
Turkey  (diudes)    . 
Wild  (volaille  sauvage) 

Puddings    (poudings),    a 
dish    .... 
Sweet     .... 

Pumpkin  (citrouille) 


&c.) 


215-217 

226-237 

214,  215 

212,213 

220-222 

212-237 

222-225 

.     134 

.     252 

.      217-220 

.      237-246 

Roman 

.      14 

.      305-308 

.     266 


Purees  et  potages  lie: 
thick  soups) 


(purees  and 

.      100-109 


Salades  (salads)     .        .        .      284-288 

Salads  (salades)        .        .        .      284-288 

And  salad  dressing,  notes  on         82-85 

Classical  quotations  for       .        .    482 

Recipes 596-599 

Salmon  (saumon)  ....  120 
Salsifis  (salsifits)  .  .  .  .280 
Sauce,  an  ancient  ....  12 
"  Sauce  for  the  goose,"  recipe  for    .      49 

Sauces        290-304 

Saumon  (salmon)  ....  120 
Sausages,  a  Roman  dish  ...  14 
Savoury    dishes,    &c.     (entremets 

savoureux,  &c.)  .  .  322-324 
Cheese  (fromage)  ....  334 
Classical  quotations  for        .        .    483 


Eggs  (oeufs) 


328-332 


Farinaceous    foods   (farineux  et 

mets)  ....  332-334 
Fish  (poissons)  .  .  .  322-324 
Meat 324 


INDEX 


925 


SAV 

Savoury  dishes,  &c. — co^nt.  Paqe 

Omelets  (omelettes,  &c.)     .      327,  328 

Vegetables  (legumes)  .      325-327,  srs 

Scotch  cookery  in  1791     .        .        •      18 

Grace,  a  curious    .        .        .        .31 

Seakale  (chou  de  mer)     .        .        .    265 

Shakspeare  and  the  kitchen    .        .      48 

Side-dishes,    hot    (hors    d'cem-res 

chauds)      ....      135-143 
Plain  (hors  d'oeuvres  simples)      89-91 
Prepared,    cold    (hors   d'oeuvres 
froids  et  mets  divers)        .         92-94 

Skate  (raie) 119 

Smelt  (eperlans)  ....  113 
Snowballs,  apple,  recipe  .        .        .555 

Sole  (sole) 122 

Souffl6s  and    omelets    (souffles  et 

omelettes)  ....    3U8,  309 

Beignets,  recipe    ....    554 

Soups  (potages)         .        .        .       95-109 

Classical  quotations  for        .        .    844 

Clear  soups  (consommes)     .       95-100 

Of  the  fifteenth  century       .        .13 

Purees  and  thick  soups  (purees 

et  potages  lies)  ,        .        .     100-109 

Sourcrout  (choucroute)   .        .        .264 

Soyer,  Alexis,  a  famous  cook  .     494-497 

Spain,  her  share  in  the  development 

of  cookery 19 

Wines  (vins  d'Espagne)       .        .    842 
Spartan  broth,  origin  of  .        .        .38 

Spartan  fare 17 

Spenser  and  the  kitchen  ...  48 
Spinach  (cpinards)  ....  267 
Sterlet  (^steurlet)  .  .  .  .124 
Stewing,  notes  on  .  .  .  66,  77 
Sturgeon  (esturgeon)  .  .  .  114 
Suzanne,  Alfred,  a  famous  chef  .  864 
Swan,  a  favourite  dish  (1512)  .  14 
Sweet  dishes  (entremets  de  douceur) 

305-322 
Blancmanges  and  creams  .  .  316 
Cakes  (gateaux)  .        .        .     309,  310 


VEG 


Page 


Charlottes 

Creams,   whipped,   &c 

fouettees,  &c.)  . 
Croiites  aux  fruits 

Fritters,  &c.  (Beignets,  <fec.)     313,  314 
Fruit  water-ices  (glaces  de  fruits) 

321,  322 
Fruits,    stewed     (compotes 

fruits)         .... 
Fruits    with    rice,    crusts, 

(fruits  auriz,  crotites,  &c.) 
Ices,  creams  (glaces,  cremes) 
Jellies,  &c.  (gelees,  &c.) 
Pastry,  &c.  (patisserie,  &c.) 
Puddings  (poudings)    .  . 
Souffles  et  omelettes,    . 
Sweet  dishes,  recipes 


312,  313 
(cremes 

.    319 
315,  316 


de 

316,  317 
&c. 

314,315 
319-321 

317,  318 
310-312 
305-308 
308,  309 
600-6i5 


Tabue,  curious  instructions  re- 
garding conduct  at,  20  ;  notes 
on    laying,    in    the    English 

style 834 

Tanche  (tench)  .  .  .  .124 
Taste,  the  tongue  and  the  sense  of  32-34 
Telephone,  culinary  .  .  63  sq. 
Tench  (tanche)  ....  124 
Thackeray,  W.  M.,  on  cookery        .      25 

Timbales 143 

Tomates  (tomatoes)  .  .  280-282 
Tongue,  the,  and  the  sense  of  taste  32-34 
Topinambours  (Jerusalem  artichokes) 

282,  283 
Trojan,  a  Roman  epicure         .        .      12 

Trout  (truite) 125 

Truffles 283,284 

Truite  (trout) 125 

Turbot  (turbot)  .  .  .  .125 
Turkeys  (dindes)  entrees  .  217-220 
Turks,  eating  and  drinking  of  the  58  sq. 
Turnips  (navets)      ....    269 


TJde,  L.  E.,  a  famous  French  cook, 
25,  491-493  ;  his  opinion  of 
EugUsh  cookery 

'"Umble  pie,"  origin  of  the  phrase 


26 
29 


Vatel,  Prince  of  Conde's  chef        .      39 

Veal  cutlets,  beef  and,  baked,  recipe    548 

Probable  effects  on  the  battle 

of  Leipsic      ....      39 

Entrees  (veau  entrees)         .     148-168 

Removes,  &c.  (veau  releves)    133, 134 

Roasts  (veau  rotis)        .        .        .    250 

Vegetables,  recipes      .        .        .     579-595 
Pickles  (legumes  confits  au  vinai- 

gre) 289 

Savom-ies       .        .        .     325-327,  579 

Vegetables  (legumes)  .  .  255-284 
Artichokes  (artichauts)  .  255-257 
Artichokes,  Jerusalem  (topinam- 
bours) ....  282, 283 
Asparagus  (asperges)  .  .  257-259 
Broad  beans  (feves  de  marais)  .  268 
Cabbages (choux)  .  .  .  264 
Cardoons  (cardons)  .  .  .  259 
Carrots  (carottes)  .  .  .  260 
Celery  (celeri)  .  .  .  261,262 
Knobs  (celeraic)        .        .        .    266 

C^pes 262 

Chicory  or  endive  (chicoree)  .  264 
Classical  quotations  for  .  .  846 
Cucumbers  (concombres)  .  .  266 
Egg  plants  (aubergines)  .  .  259 
French  beans  (haricots  verts)    .    268 


926 


PRACTICAL    GASTRONOMY 


VEG 

Vegetables  (legumes)— co«^  Page 

Haricot  beaus,  white  (haricots 


blancs)        .... 

.    268 

Hop  sprigs  (jets  de  houblons) 

.    269 

Lentils  (lentilles)  . 

.    269 

Lettuces  (laitues) 

.    269 

Mixed  (macedoiue) 

.     269 

Mushrooms  (champignons") 

262,  263 

Potatoes  (pommes  de  terre) 

270-280 

Pumpkin  (citrouille)    . 

.     266 

Salsifits  (salsiiis)  . 

.     280 

Spinach  (epinards) 

.     267 

Tomatoes  (tomates) 

280-282 

Truffles  (truffes)  . 

283,  284 

Turnips  (navets)  . 

.    269 

Vocabularv    of     terms     used 

in 

cookerv      .        .        . '      . 

871-873 

Volaille  entrees  (poultry  entrees) 

212-237 

Canards (ducks)   . 

212-214 

Canetons  (ducklings)  . 

214.  215 

Chapons      (capons      or      canon 

pullets)       .... 

215-217 

Diudes  (turkejs)  . 

217-220 

Oies  (geese)  .... 

220-222 

Pigeons          .... 

222-225 

Poulets  (chicken) . 

226-237 

Bee  also  Gibier  entrees. 

Volaille      releves,     &c.      (poultry 

removes,  &c.)     . 

.     134 

WOO 

Page 

Volaille  rotis  (poultry  roasts)  •    252 

Sauvage   (wild  poultry)   entrees 

237-214 

Warner  on  Roman  cookery  .  12,  18 
Warwick,  Earl  of,  his  banquet  (1470)  27 
Wellington,  Duke  of,  his  indiffer- 
ence to  culinary  artifice  .  .  29 
Whale,  a  select  dish  .  .  .13 
Whiting  (merlan)  ....  117 
WiUiam  the  Conqueror,  his  reward 

to  cooks      .        .        .        .        15, 36 
Wines,  order  of  serving,   837;  for 
the  table,  notes  on,  838  ;  list 
of  most  known  brands      .        .    839 
Wines,  Australian  (vins  d'Australie)  882 


Champagne   .... 

839 

Clarets  (Bordeaux),  notes  on 

839 

Classical  quotations  for,  847  sq. 

Cms  de  Bordeaux  . 

840 

Crus  de  Burgoyne  (Burgundy) 

840 

French  white 

.     841 

German,  note  on  . 

841 

German,  list  of      .        .        . 

841 

Greek  (vins  Grecs) 

.    478 

Italian  (vins  Italiens)   . 

.    478 

Spanish  (vins  d'Espagne)     . 

.    478 

Wolsey,  his  banquet  (1509) 

.       13 

Wood,  Nicholas,  a  famous  chef 

.       29 

VAN  HOUTEN'S 

COCO 


PURE 

soluble 
BEST    &    GOES     FARTHEST 


The  British  Medical  Journal  says  : 

"  Van  HOUTEN'S  Cocoa  is  admirable,    in 
flavour  it  is  perfect,  and  it  is  SO  PURE." 


H 


BOSTON  PUBLIC  LIBRARY 


3  9999  05987  636  5 


Boston  Public  Library 
Central  Library,  Copley  Square 

Division  of 
Reference  and  Research  Services 


The  Date  Due  Card  in  the  pocket  indi- 
cates the  date  on  or  before  which  this 
book  should  be  returned  to  the  Library. 

Please  do  not  remove  cards  from  this 
pocket. 


