TX  715 
.P14 
Copy   1 


PRAGUE  CHAPTER 


BOO 
df  noire 


PRAGUE  CHAPTER 

BOOK  OF  RECIPES 


1922 


"We  may  live  without  poetry,  music  and  art; 
We  may  live  without  conscience  and  live  without  heart; 
We  may  live  without  friends;  we  may  live  without  books; 
But  civilized  man  cannot  live  without  cooks." 


THIRD  EDITION— Enlarged  and  revised. 

Compiled  by 
MARIE  PAIDAR  and  BLANCHE  KAMMERER 


For  the  recipes  published  in  this  book,  we  are  indebted  to 
the  members  of  Prague  Chapter,  who  cheerfully  gave  us 
the  very  cream  of  their  cooking  recipes,  and  to  whom  we 
extend  our  sincere  thanks. 

Copies  of  this  book  may  be  had  by  remitting  $1.25  and 
postage  to 

MRS.  MARIE  PAIDAR,  Secretary 

5328  West  Monroe  Street 

CHICAGO 


Price  $1.25 


PRAGUE    CHAPTER   BOOK   OF   RECIPES 


CONTRIBUTORS 


The  following  members  have  made  possible  the  publishing  of  this 
book  by  furnishing  their  most  valued  and  tried  recipes : 


Cecelia  Barta 
Anna  Broz 
Matilda  Cerveny 
Beryl  Cisler 
Julia  Denk 

Genevieve  Engelthaler 
Julia  M.  Fara 
Marie  Foucek 
May  Friedl 
Carrie  Glass 
Mary  Haisman 
Rose  Havlatko 
Josephine  Honsik 
Mamie  Jindrich 
Marie  E.  Jirsa 
Mary  Jordan 
May  Jurena 
Anna  Kadlec 
Alice  Kammerer 
Blanche  Kammerer 
Mary  Kec 
Emily  Kerner 
Rose  Kerner 


Josephine  G.  Kleisner 
Mary  Klenha 
Frances  Kolar 
Milada  R.  Koren 
Lena  Kracht 
Mollie  L.  Laurence 
Marie  Lucas 
Kate  Mlnarik 
Marie  Paidar 
Mary  Poch 
Jennie  Ratajik 
Anna  Roubik 
Emilie  Sadilek 
Sophie  Smaha 
Marie  Stary 
Antonette  Stife 
Antonia  Straka 
Marie  E.  Turek 
Lillian  Turek 
Flora  V.  Vockel 
Rose  Waska 
Mary  Wesley 


)  CI  A  676078 
Copyright,   1922 

JUN  151922 


PRAGUE   CHAPTER   BOOK   OF   RECIPES  3 

APPETIZERS 

OYSTER  COCKTAIL  No.  1— One  pint  small  oysters,  twelve 
tablespoons  catsup,  three  tablespoons  taragon  vinegar,  two  table- 
spoons white  vinegar,  cayenne  pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  juice  of  one 
lemon.  Serve  very  cold  with  one-fourth  teaspoonful  grated  horse- 
radish on  top  of  each  portion. 

JULIA  M.  FARA. 

OYSTER  COCKTAIL  No.  2— Six  oysters,  one  tablespoon  cock- 
tail catsup,  one-half  teaspoon  grated  horseradish  root,  one-half  tea- 
spoon lemon  juice.  Place  five  or  six  small  oysters  in  each  glass,  cover 
with  catsup  and  lemon  juice  and  place  the  fresh  grated  horseradish 
root  on  top.    Serve  very  cold. 

MARIE  PAIDAR. 

SARDINE  COCKTAIL— One  small  box  sardines,  one-fourth  cup 
tomato  catsup,  one  tablespoon  grated  horseradish,  juice  of  one  lemon, 
salt  to  taste,  one  teaspoon  Worcestershire  sauce.  Skin  and  bone 
sardines  and  cut  into  small  pieces.  Mix  with  the  rest  of  the  ingre- 
dients.   Serve  ice  cold  in  cocktail  glasses. 

BERYL  CISLER. 

LOBSTER  COCKTAIL— Two  lobsters  boiled,  cut  into  pieces 
one-half  inch  square.  Follow  recipe  for  oyster  cocktail,  substituting 
the  lobster  in  place  of  the  oysters.  Shrimps  can  be  served  in  same 
manner.    Serve  very  cold  in  cocktail  glasses.    This  serves  six  people. 

JULIA  M.  FARA. 

FRUIT  COCKTAIL— Three  oranges,  three  bananas,  one-half 
pound  Malaga  grapes,  one-half  cup  pineapple  diced,  sugar  to  taste, 
juice  of  one  lemon,  twelve  English  walnut  meats.  Cut  the  oranges 
in  two  crosswise,  reserving  the  peels  as  cups.  Remove  the  pulp  sepa- 
rately from  each  section.  Remove  the  seeds  from  grapes.  Mix  orange 
pulp,  grapes  and  pineapple,  sprinkle  with  sugar,  add  lemon  juice  and 
let  stand  in  a  cool  place  for  several  hours.  Before  serving  add  the 
bananas  and  nut  meats ;  place  into  orange  cups  and  serve. 

MARIE  PAIDAR. 

STRAWBERRY  COCKTAIL— One  quart  strawberries,  juice  of 
two  lemons,  one  quart  cold  water,  two  cups  sugar,  ice.  Mash  the 
berries  well,  add  the  water  and  lemon  juice  and  let  stand  three  hours. 
Strain,  add  the  sugar  and  stir  until  dissolved.  Let  stand  on  ice  one 
hour.  Serve  at  the  beginning  of  a  luncheon  in  tall,  narrow  glasses, 
reserving  three  or  four  whole  berries,  cut  in  two  for  each  glass. 

BERYL  CISLER. 

GRAPEFRUIT  COCKTAIL— Remove  from  the  skin  the  cells 
and  juice ;  add  a  little  sugar  and  if  desired  chopped  pineapple  and  a 
few  Maraschino  cherries.  Serve  very  cold  in  thin  glasses,  surrounded 
with  crushed  ice  or  in  fruit  shells. 

BERYL  CISLER. 


4  PRAGUE   CHAPTER   BOOK   OF  RECIPES 

SARDINE  CANAPES— Two  tablespoons  butter,  three  sardines, 
lemon  juice,  anchovy  paste,  three  olives,  one  tablespoon  chopped 
pickle.  Spread  bread  with  butter  mixed  with  anchovy  paste.  Garnish 
with  sardines  and  chopped  olives  and  pickles.     Serve  hot  or  cold. 

MARIE  PAIDAR. 

DEXTER  CANAPES— Cut  stale  bread  in  quarter-inch  slices 
and  shape  with  a  round  cutter ;  toast  on  one  side  and  spread  untoasted 
side  with  anchovy  butter ;  cover  each  slice  with  a  slice  of  tomato, 
spread  tomato  with  mayonnaise  dressing,  sprinkle  with  yolk  of  hard 
cooked  egg  put  through  a  sieve  and  white  of  egg  finely  chopped. 
Garnish  with  a  ring  of  green  pepper  and  in  the  center  place  a  sprig  of 
parsley. 

MARIE  PAIDAR. 

BRAIN  CANAPE — One  set  of  calf's  brains,  one  egg,  one  table- 
spoon cracker  crumbs,  thin  rounds  of  wheat  bread,  salt  and  pepper, 
chopped  parsley.  Remove  red  membrane  and  soak  the  brains  in  cold 
water  20  minutes.  Drain  and  chop  fine,  add  egg,  crackers  and  season- 
ing. Spread  one  heaping  tablespoon  of  this  mixture  on  each  round 
of  bread  and  fry  a  golden  brown  in  deep  hot  fat. 

BERYL  CISLER. 

CHICKEN  OR  GOOSE  LIVER  CANAPE— Boil  or  saute  the 
livers,  mash  or  rice.  Chop  crisp  fried  bacon,  moisten  with  creamed 
butter  or  other  fat  and  spread  on  circular  pieces  of  toasted  bread. 
Sprinkle  with  bits  of  red  or  green  peppers — or  chopped  parsley — and 
garnish  plate  with  a  red  radish  or  sprig  of  parsley. 

JULIA  M.  FAR  A. 

SARDINE  CANAPES— Equal  parts  of  yolks  of  hard  boiled  eggs 
and  sardines  made  into  a  paste,  little  lemon  juice,  spread  on  toast. 
Put  whites  through  ricer,  mix  with  chopped  parsley  and  sprinkle 
on  top. 

CECELIA  BART  A. 

CHICKEN  LIVER  PASTE— Cook  chicken  livers  slowly  in  hot 
chicken  fat  a  few  minutes.  Drain  and  strain  through  sieve.  Saute 
fresh  or  dried  mushrooms,  and  chop  very  fine.  Mix  with  the  liver, 
add  lemon  and  onion  juice,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Spread  on  pieces 
of  buttered  toast  or  on  salted  crackers. 

BERYL  CISLER. 

CANAPES  OF  CHICKEN  LIVER— Take  a  dozen  chicken 
livers,  saute  in  hot  fat  with  an  onion  till  tender.  Smooth  to  a  paste, 
add  salt,  cayenne,  butter  and  anchovy  essence  to  taste.  Spread  on 
toast.    Calves'  liver,  sliced,  may  be  used  in  place  of  the  chicken  livers. 

MARY  JORDAN. 

CHEESE  WITH  EGG — Small  jar  cream  cheese.  Smooth  to  a 
paste  with  one  teaspoon  butter  and  one  whole  egg.  Spread  on  pieces 
of  toast,  put  under  broiler  four  or  five  minutes  and  serve  hot. 

CECELIA  BART  A. 


PRAGUE    CHAPTER   BOOK   OF   RECIPES  5 

TOMATO  AND  ANCHOVY  APPETIZER— Round  pieces  of 
toasted  bread,  spread  with  butter,  then  anchovy  paste.  Place  thin 
slice  tomato  on  top,  sprinkle  with  grated  American  cheese ;  place 
under  broiler  until  cheese  is  melted  and  serve  hot,  garnished  with 
sprigs  of  parsley. 

BERYL  CISLER. 

TOMATO  BASKET  APPETIZER— Take  small,  smooth,  firm 
tomatoes,  one  for  each  person.  Cut  one-half  inch  strip  for  handle, 
half  way  down  the  center  on  smooth  flat  side.  Cut  crosswise  on  both 
sides  to  the  handle.  Scoop  out  bottom  of  basket  in  four  sections. 
Remove  pulp  under  handle.  Fill  first  section  with  hard  boiled  white 
of  egg,  chopped ;  second,  with  caviar ;  third,  with  the  yolks  of  eggs, 
riced,  and  fourth,  with  crab  meat,  minced.     Serve  on  lettuce  leaves. 

JULIA  M.  FARA. 

FILLED  TOMATOES— Six  tomatoes,  six  sardellen,  one  small 
box  caviar,  two  hard  boiled  eggs,  one-half  green  pepper,  one-half  dill 
pickle.  Scoop  tomatoes  and  put  on  ice ;  when  ready  to  serve  fill  with 
all  above  ingredients  chopped  fine,  add  some  of  the  tomato  that  you 
scooped  out,  cover  with  mayonnaise  and  serve  cold. 

MARIE  PAIDAR. 

SARDELLEN  APPETIZER— Six  pieces  toast  of  rye  bread,  cut 
round ;  six  slices  tomato,  three  hard  boiled  eggs,  twelve  sardellen, 
mayonnaise.  Cut  bread  round  and  toast  and  place  on  it  a  slice  of 
tomato,  on  this  put  four  half  sardellen  which  have  been  soaked  in 
water,  then  a  half  egg  and  over  this  a  mayonnaise  dressing.  It  can 
also  be  served  without  the  toast.    Serve  very  cold. 

CECELIA  BART  A. 

SARDELLEN  APPETIZER— One-fourth  pound  sardellen,  one- 
fourth  pound  fresh  butter  (scant),  one-fourth  teaspoon  parsley, 
chopped  fine ;  twelve  small  slices  fresh  rye  bread  or  toast,  two  hard 
cooked  eggs.  Soak  sardellen  in  cold  water  four  hours,  remove  bones. 
Take  equal  parts  of  sardellen  and  fresh  butter,  creamed.  Chop  sar- 
dellen fine,  mix  with  the  butter,  add  the  parsley  and  spread  on  fresh 
rye  bread  or  toast.  Separate  egg,  chop  white  fine  and  rice  the  yolk 
and  decorate  sandwiches  with  alternate  rows ;  or  soak  one-half  pound 
sardellen,  bone  and  mash  them  and  add  two  tablespoons  Neufchatel 
cheese,  two  tablespoons  sweet  butter,  a  little  grated  onion,  a  pinch 
cayenne  pepper.    Spread  on  thin  slices  of  toast. 

CECELIA  BART  A. 

SARDINE  APPETIZER— Two  oil  sardines,  one  tablespoon  cat- 
sup, one  tablespoon  lemon  juice,  a  dash  of  tobasco  sauce,  one  round 
slice  toast  or  buttered  bread,  lettuce  leaf.  Drain,  clean,  skin  and  bone 
the  sardines,  place  crisp  lettuce  leaf  on  bread  and  butter  plate,  place 
bread  on  top,  lay  the  sardines  across  and  spread  over  the  whole  the 
catsup,  lemon  juice  and  the  tobasco  sauce. 

BERYL  CISLER. 


6  PRAGUE    CHAPTER    BOOK    OF   RECIPES 

EGG  APPETIZER— Six  steamed  eggs,  six  round  slices  of  but- 
tered toast,  six  tablespoons  chili  sauce,  lettuce.  Spread  round  of 
freshly  toasted  bread  with  butter,  place  hot  steamed  or  dropped  egg 
in  center  of  each  piece,  cover  each  egg  with  a  tablespoon  of  chili  sauce 
and  serve  hot  on  lettuce  leaf. 

BERYL  CISLER. 

MARROW  BONES — Six  marrow  bones,  one  teaspoon  salt,  pars- 
ley. Have  your  butcher  cut  the  marrow  bones  three  inches  thick  and 
scrape  the  sides  perfectly  clean.  Place  in  a  hot  oven  for  six  minutes. 
Salt  and  send  to  table  at  once.  Dress  in  a  parsley  bed  and  serve  with 
toast  points. 

MARIE  PAIDAR. 


PRAGUE    CHAPTER    BOOK    OF   RECIPES  7 

SOUPS 

"Hunger  is  sharper  than  a  stvord." 

CREAM  OF  TOMATO  SOUP— Cook  one  small  onion  with  a 
quart  of  milk.  Melt  two  tablespoons  of  butter,  add  two  tablespoons 
of  flour,  season  with  pepper,  teaspoon  of  salt,  two  teaspoons  sugar 
and  add  two-thirds  cup  of  hot  milk,  then  the  rest  gradually.  Heat 
one  pint  of  strained  tomatoes,  add  one-fourth  teaspoon  of  soda  and 
when  the  bubbling  stops  add  to  the  white  sauce,  bring  to  a  boil  and 
serve  at  once. 

BLANCHE  KAMMERER. 

CREAM  OF  ASPARAGUS  SOUP— Wash  and  drain  two 
bunches  of  asparagus,  reserve  the  tips  and  add  stalks  to  one  pint  cold 
water.  Boil  five  minutes,  drain,  add  three  pints  of  soup  stock,  slice 
of  onion,  and  boil  thirty  minutes ;  rub  through  sieve.  Melt  three 
tablespoons  of  butter,  add  three  tablespoons  of  flour,  a  teaspoon  of 
salt,  teaspoon  of  chopped  parsley,  and  cook  with  hot  stock ;  add  one- 
half  cup  of  cream  and  the  asparagus  tips  which  have  been  previously 
boiled,  bring  to  a  boil  and  serve.  One-half  cup  of  whipped  cream 
may  be  added  to  soup  just  before  serving. 

BLANCHE  KAMMERER. 

TRIPE  SOUP — Cut  one  pound  of  tripe  in  small  squares,  boil  in 
salted  water  until  tender.  Dice  four  slices  of  bacon,  fry  with  one 
onion  chopped  fine ;  add  to  soup,  also  one  can  of  Campbell's  tomato 
soup,  a  little  paprika  and  thicken  with  a  tablespoon  of  flour  rubbed 
smooth  with  a  tablespoon  of  butter. 

ANNA   ROUBIK. 

DRIED  PEA  SOUP— Wash  and  soak  over  night  two  cups  of 
dried  split  peas.  Drain,  cover  with  three  quarts  of  cold  water,  add  a 
ham  bone  and  boil  slowly  for  four  hours,  then  add  one-fourth  cup  of 
celery  diced  and  cook  until  peas  are  tender.  Melt  two  tablespoons  of 
butter,  add  one  small  onion  cut  fine  and  fry  brown,  then  add  two 
tablespoons  of  flour  and  gradually  one  cup  of  the  soup  stock,  add  this 
to  rest  of  soup,  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  teaspoon  of  sugar,  bring 
to  a  boil  and  serve  with  croutons. 

BLANCHE  KAMMERER. 

CREAM  OF  CELERY  SOUP— Three  stalks  of  celery,  three 
cups  of  milk,  one  slice  of  onion,  one  teaspoon  of  salt,  two  tablespoons 
of  butter,  two  tablespoons  of  flour,  pinch  pepper,  one  cup  of  cream. 
Cut  celery  in  one-half  inch  pieces,  boil  in  two  cups  of  water  until 
tender.  Press  through  coarse  sieve.  Place  milk  and  slice  of  onion  in 
double  boiler ;  when  milk  is  scalded  remove  onion,  add  celery,  sea- 
soning, flour  and  butter  rubbed  together  until  smooth  and  cream. 
Cook  until  thick. 

MARIE  PAIDAR. 


PRAGUE    CHAPTER    BOOK   OF   RECIPES 


CHICKEN  NOODLE  SOUP — Cover  stewing  chicken  with 
water,  add  celeriac,  parsley,  onion,  carrot  and  salt ;  boil  until  chicken 
is  tender.  Remove  chicken,  strain  soup  and  when  boiling  add  noodles, 
boil  five  minutes  and  serve. 


NOODLES — Two  cups  of  flour  on  board,  make  a  hollow  in  cen- 
ter into  which  break  two  eggs,  add  a  pinch  of  salt.  With  a  fork  beat 
in  enough  flour  to  make  stiff  dough,  then  with  the  hands  knead  until 
the  dough  does  not  stick  to  board.  Divide  in  two  parts,  roll  out  each 
as  thin  as  possible  and  lay  on  cloth  to  dry.  Cut  in  strips  two  inches 
wide,  pile  together  and  cut  into  noodles  with  sharp  knife. 

BLANCHE  KAMMERER. 


CREAM  OF  MUSHROOM  SOUP— One-fourth  pound  of  mush- 
rooms, salt  and  pepper,  two  tablespoons  of  butter,  two  tablespoons  of 
flour,  one  cup  of  cream,  two  cups  of  milk,  one  quart  of  rich  stock  made 
of  beef  and  veal  bones,  carrots,  onions  and  celery.  Strain  stock,  wash 
mushrooms  and  chop,  add  to  boiling  stock  and  cook  fifteen  minutes. 
Put  butter  in  saucepan,  add  flour  and  when  it  bubbles  add  other  ingre- 
dients and  cook  until  it  thickens. 

MARIE  PAIDAR. 


CREAM  OF  BARLEY  SOUP— One-half  cup  of  pearl  barley,  one 
quart  of  soup  stock,  one  slice  of  onion,  pepper,  one  teaspoonful  of  salt, 
one  cup  of  hot  cream,  two  egg  yolks.  Cook  barley  and  onion  in  one 
quart  of  boiling  water  forty-five  minutes,  add  the  soup  stock  and  cook 
until  tender,  season  and  pour  over  hot  cream  which  has  been  stirred 
gradually  into  the  beaten  yolks. 

JULIA  M.  FAR  A. 


POTATO  SOUP — Dice  three  large  potatoes,  one  large  carrot, 
one  small  stalk  celery,  one  large  onion  or  one  clove  garlic  rubbed 
smooth  with  teaspoon  salt.  Add  three  pints  water  or  soup  stock, 
quarter  cup  barley  and  if  desired  half  cup  mushrooms  soaked  one 
hour  in  cold  water.  Boil  until  vegetables  and  barley  are  tender,  sea- 
son, and  thicken  with  one  large  tablespoon  flour  cooked  brown  in 
one  tablespoon  butter. 

BLANCHE  KAMMERER. 


OXTAIL  SOUP — Cut  oxtail  in  pieces  at  joints,  cover  with  cold 
water,  add  soup  greens,  salt,  celery  salt  and  boil  until  oxtail  is  tender. 
Strain,  add  one-quarter  cup  rice  or  barley,  boil  twenty  minutes  longer, 
add  oxtail  and  serve. 

BLANCHE  KAMMERER. 


PRAGUE   CHAPTER   BOOK   OF   RECIPES 


DRIED  PEA  SOUP — Two  cups  dried  split  peas,  three  quarts 
water,  small  ham  bone,  one  clove  garlic,  one  small  onion,  two  table- 
spoons butter,  two  teaspoons  salt,  one  teaspoon  sugar,  one-fourth 
teaspoon  white  pepper,  one-fourth  powdered  marjoram,  two  table- 
spoons flour.  Pick  over  and  soak  peas  in  cold  water  over  night. 
Drain  and  rinse  again.  Place  in  a  soup  kettle  with  the  bone,  add  the 
water  and  boil  slowly  four  hours  or  more.  Strain.  Heat  the  butter 
in  a  spider,  add  onion  and  garlic  chopped  very  fine  and  brown,  then 
add  flour  and  cook  a  few  minutes  longer,  and  gradually  add  one  cup 
of  the  stock;  add  this  thickening  to  the  rest  of  the  soup,  with  the 
marjoram.  Let  all  boil  up  and  strain  through  a  sieve.  Serve  with 
croutons. 

JULIA  M.  FARA. 


BEEF  SOUP— FARINA  DUMPLINGS— Make  a  good  beef 
broth,  when  strained  and  boiling  add  farina  dumplings. 

FARINA  DUMPLINGS— Break  one  small  egg  into  small  bowl, 
add  a  pinch  of  salt,  quarter  cup  of  farina,  stir  quickly  and  drop  imme- 
diately into  boiling  soup  a  quarter  of  a  teaspoonful  at  a  time,  always 
dipping  the  spoon  first  into  the  soup.  Cover  and  let  boil  eight  to  ten 
minutes.  Remove  from  fire,  pour  one  cup  cold  water  over  dumplings, 
cover,  and  let  stand  a  few  minutes  before  serving. 

BLANCHE  K  AM  MERER. 


OYSTER  BISQUE — One  quart  oysters,  one  quart  milk,  one 
blade  mace,  one-third  cup  butter,  one-fourth  cup  flour,  yolks  of  two 
eggs,  salt  and  pepper.  Clean  and  pick  over  oysters ;  reserve  liquor ; 
add  oysters  slightly  chopped,  heat  slowly  to  the  boiling  point  and  let 
simmer  twenty  minutes.  Strain  through  cheesecloth,  reheat  liquor, 
and  thicken  with  butter  and  flour.  Scald  milk  with  mace,  remove 
seasonings  and  add  to  oyster  liquor.  Add  egg  yolks  and  cook  slightly. 
Season  and  serve. 

MARIE  PAIDAR. 


CREAM  OF  CORN  SOUP— One  can  corn,  three  pints  milk,  one 
slice  onion  chopped,  three  tablespoons  butter,  two  tablespoons  flour. 
one  teaspoon  salt,  one-eighth  teaspoon  white  pepper,  two  yolks  of 
eggs,  one  cup  whipped  cream.  Heat  corn,  milk  and  onion,  press 
through  colander.  Melt  butter,  add  flour,  then  two-thirds  cup  of  hot 
milk  mixture.  Cook  until  smooth,  then  gradually  add  rest  of  milk. 
Beat  yolks,  pour  on  gradually  little  thickened  milk,  then  the  rest. 
Add  salt  and  pepper.  Cook,  stirring  constantly  until  smooth.  Serve 
at  once  with  croutons  or  pulled  bread. 

BERYL  CISLER. 


10  PRAGUE    CHAPTER   BOOK   OF   RECIPES 


BLACK  BEAN  SOUP — One  pint  black  beans,  two  quarts  cold 
water,  2  tablespoons  chopped  onion,  2  stalks  celery  or  piece  celery 
root,  two  teaspoons  salt,  one-eighth  teaspoon  pepper,  one-fourth  tea- 
spoon Coleman's  mustard,  a  few  grains  cayenne,  three  tablespoons 
butter,  two  tablespoons  flour,  two  hard  boiled  eggs,  one  lemon.  Soak 
beans  over  night,  drain  and  add  cold  water  and  rinse  thoroughly.  Fry 
the  onion  in  two  tablespoons  butter,  add  to  the  beans  with  water  and 
celery.  Cook  slowly  until  the  beans  are  soft,  three  or  four  hours. 
Add  more  water  as  it  boils  away.  Rub  through  a  strainer,  add  the 
seasonings  and  heat ;  heat  the  remaining  butter  in  a  saucepan,  add  the 
flour  and  the  soup  gradually ;  cook  until  well  blended.  Cut  lemon  and 
eggs  in  thin  slices  and  serve  in  soup. 

MARIE  PAIDAR. 

ONION  SOUP — Four  medium  sized  onions,  three  tablespoons 
butter,  one  cup  water,  one  and  one-half  cups  milk,  two  tablespoons 
flour,  salt  and  pepper.  Slice  onions  and  cook  in  two  tablespoons  but- 
ter. Add  water  and  cook  20  minutes.  Melt  one  tablespoon  butter, 
add  flour,  onions  and  seasoning.  Scald  milk  in  double  boiler,  add  the 
above  and  cook  until  blended. 

MARIE  PAIDAR. 

TOMATO  SOUP — One  quart  of  soup  stock,  one  can  of  toma- 
toes; boil,  then  strain  through  a  sieve,  pressing  through  all  but  the 
seeds.  Boil  again,  season,  and  thicken  with  two  tablespoons  of  butter 
rubbed  smooth  with  two  tablespoons  of  flour.    Serve  with  croutons. 

BLANCHE  KAMMERER. 

LIVER  DUMPLINGS  FOR  SOUP— Remove  skin  and  tough 
fibre  from  one  pound  of  calf's  liver,  chop  very  fine,  add  one  teaspoon  of 
salt,  one  clove,  garlic  (grated),  one  tablespoon  of  butter,  one  pinch 
each  of  pepper  and  mace,  one-half  teaspoon  of  powdered  marjoram, 
two  eggs  beaten  and  enough  grated  stale  bread  crumbs  to  make  quite 
stiff.  Shape  into  balls  the  size  of  a  nutmeg  and  drop  into  boiling 
soup  fifteen  minutes  before  serving. 

MARIE  PAIDAR. 

MARROW  BALLS  FOR  SOUP— Two  tablespoons  of  beef  mar- 
row fat,  two  eggs,  one-half  teaspoon  of  salt,  a  few  gratings  of  nut- 
meg, bread  crumbs.  Split  the  bones  and  remove  the  marrow,  cream 
the  marrow,  add  the  eggs  well  beaten,  season  and  add  enough  grated 
stale  bread  crumbs  to  make  stiff  enough  to  form  into  balls  the  size 
of  a  walnut.     Drop  into  boiling  soup  and  boil  fifteen  minutes. 

MARIE  PAIDAR. 

EGG  BARLEY  FOR  SOUP— One  egg,  one-fourth  teaspoon  of 
salt,  scant  cup  of  flour.  Beat  egg  slightly,  add  salt  and  enough  flour 
to  make  a  very  hard  ball  of  dough.  Grate.  Dry  for  a  few  minutes  on 
board  and  drop  gradually  into  boiling  soup.  Let  boil  five  to  ten  min- 
utes, then  serve. 

MARIE  PAIDAR. 


PRAGUE    CHAPTER    BOOK   OF   RECIPES  11 

CROUTONS — Butter  slices  of  stale  bread,  cut  in  cubes  and 
brown  in  oven  or  cut  bread  in  cubes,  fry  in  a  little  butter  in  hot  spider, 
turning  until  brown  on  all  sides. 

FOAM  DUMPLINGS— Stir  slowly  the  yolks  of  three  eggs,  a 
teaspoon  of  flour  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  When  well  mixed  add  beaten 
whites  of  three  eggs  and  pour  mixture  in  boiling  soup,  cover,  boil  four 
or  five  minutes,  turn  with  skimming  spoon,  boil  again,  then  lift  out 
dumpling,  cut  in  small  squares,  return  to  soup  and  serve. 

LEAN  KRACHT. 

PULLED  BREAD— Remove  all  crust  from  a  fresh  loaf  of 
bakers'  bread.  Take  two  forks  and  split  loaf  in  half  lengthwise,  then 
each  half  into  quarters  lengthwise,  making  eight  long  pieces  in  all. 
Lay  side  by  side  in  pan  and  place  in  slow  oven  until  a  golden  brown. 
Serve  with  soup  or  salads. 

BERYL  CISLER. 


12  PRAGUE    CHAPTER   BOOK   OF  RECIPES 


OYSTERS  AND  FISH 

BAKED  WHITE  FISH— Clean  and  season  fish  with  salt  and 
pepper,  lay  slices  of  bacon  on  top,  put  in  roasting  pan  with  large  table- 
spoon of  lard,  no  water,  and  bake  one  hour,  lift  carefully  on  heated 
platter  and  serve  with  white  sauce. 

BLANCHE  KAMMERER. 

OYSTER  STEW — Heat  a  quart  of  rich  milk  to  boiling  point,  add 
a  tablespoon  of  butter,  salt  and  pepper.  Heat  the  oysters  in  their 
own  liquor,  skim  off  scum,  add  to  milk,  boil  together  one  minute  or 
until  oysters  curl.    Serve  with  toasted  crackers. 

BLANCHE  KAMMERER. 

SALMON  LOAF — One  large  can  of  salmon,  bones  removed,  a 
little  lemon  juice,  salt  to  taste,  one  cup  of  rolled  cracker  crumbs,  three 
eggs  well  beaten,  one  cup  of  sweet  milk ;  mix  all  well  together  and 
bake  one  hour. 

BLANCHE  KAMMERER. 

CREAMED  SALMON — Drain,  remove  bone  and  break  up  in 
fine  pieces  one  can  of  salmon.  Heat  one  pint  of  milk,  rub  heaping 
tablespoon  of  butter  with  tablespoon  of  flour,  add  to  milk,  salt,  pep- 
per and  boil  until  smooth  and  thick.  Put  cracker  or  bread  crumbs  in 
baking  dish,  then  layer  of  salmon,  layer  of  white  sauce,  etc.,  having 
the  white  sauce  on  top.  Sprinkle  with  bread  crumbs  and  bake  a  rich 
brown. 

BLANCHE  KAMMERER. 

BAKED  TROUT— One  four-pound  trout,  three  large  potatoes, 
one  teaspoon  of  onion  juice,  two  tablespoons  of  butter,  one  teaspoon 
of  salt,  a  little  pepper,  six  tomatoes,  half  cup  of  water.  Boil  potatoes, 
mash,  season  with  salt,  pepper,  butter  and  onion  juice.  Stuff  fish  with 
this ;  sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper.  Place  in  roasting  pan  with  two 
tablespoons  of  butter,  the  tomatoes  and  water  and  bake  fifty  minutes. 
Serve  with  the  gravy  and  garnish  with  hard  boiled  eggs,  sliced. 

ANNA  KADLEC. 

FRIED  FRESH  HERRING— Cut  fish  in  pieces,  remove  bones, 
season  with  salt  and  pepper,  roll  in  flour,  dip  in  beaten  eggs,  then  in 
bread  crumbs,  fry  in  deep  fat. 

ANNA  ROUBIK. 

JELLIED  PICKEREL— Bring  to  a  boil  three  cups  of  water, 
five  cups  of  vinegar,  salt,  a  few  whole  peppers  and  allspice,  two  bay 
leaves,  one  large  carrot  sliced  and  let  all  boil  ten  minutes,  then  add  a 
stalk  of  celery  and  one  onion  sliced,  three  slices  of  lemon  and  pickerel 
cut  in  pieces.  Boil  ten  minutes  longer.  Pour  into  a  deep  bowl,  and 
when  cool  set  on  ice  to  jell. 

MARY  KEC. 


PRAGUE    CHAPTER   BOOK   OF  RECIPES  13 

PICKLED  HERRING— Clean  and  soak  salt  herring  over  night 
in  cold  water.  Drain  and  cover  with  following:  Cup  of  water,  cup 
of  vinegar,  few  slices  of  lemon,  teaspoon  sugar,  two  onions  sliced,  tea- 
spoon mixed  whole  pickling  spices,  one  bay  leaf  and  one  apple  peeled 
and  grated.  Allow  herring  to  remain  in  this  pickle  over  night  before 
using. 

BLANCHE  K  AM  MERER. 

SHRIMP  SPANISH  (In  Ramekins.)  One  pint  shrimp,  one 
tablespoon  flour,  one  tablespoon  butter,  one  tablespoon  catsup,  one 
tablespoon  cream,  one  cup  hot  soup  stock,  two  yolks,  salt,  cayenne  and 
grated  onion.  Heat  butter,  add  flour,  add  other  ingredients  in  order 
given.  Cook  until  smooth  and  add  the  shrimps.  Fill  this  mixture  into 
ramekins  and  cover  with  cracker  dust  and  butter,  and  bake  six  minutes. 
Serve  at  once. 

MARIE  PAIDAR. 

SHRIMP  A  LA  CREOLE  IN  CASSEROLE.  One  quart  shrimps 
(boiled),  one-half  can  mushrooms,  one-half  can  French  peas,  one- 
quarter  can  tomatoes,  one  onion,  three  cloves,  one  bay  leaf,  two  table- 
spoons catsup,  salt  and  cayenne  pepper.  Stew  all  the  above  ingredients 
together,  but  the  shrimp,  one  hour  in  a  casserole,  add  the  boiled  shrimp, 
cut  into  dice.     Serve  very  hot. 

BERYL  CISLER. 

MOULDED  SALMON  WITH  CUCUMBER  SAUCE— One 
can  salmon,  one-half  tablespoon  salt,  one  and  one-half  tablespoons 
sugar,  one-half  tablespoon  flour,  three-fourths  tablespoon  gelatine  dis- 
solved in  two  tablespoons  cold  Water,  one-half  teaspoon  paprika,  one 
teaspoon  dry  mustard,  yolks  of  two  eggs,  one  and  one-half  tablespoons 
melted  butter,  three-fourths  cup  sweet  cream,  one  fourth  cup  vinegar. 
Remove  salmon  from  bone,  rinse  thoroughly  with  hot  water,  drain 
and  separate  in  flakes.  Mix  dry  ingredients,  add  yolks,  butter,  cream, 
vinegar  and  cook  in  double  boiler  until  mixture  thickens,  then  add 
soaked  gelatine,  salmon  flakes,  mix  thoroughly  and  fill  individual 
molds,  chill  and  serve  with  following  sauce :  Beat  one  bottle  whipping 
cream  until  stiff,  add  one-fourth  teaspoon  salt,  paprika  to  season, 
then  gradually  two  tablespoons  vinegar  and  last  one  cucumber 
chopped  and  well  drained. 

MARIE  PAIDAR. 

SALMON  CROQUETTES— Two  tablespoons  of  butter,  two 
tablespoons  of  flour,  one  large  can  of  salmon,  one  teaspoon  of  lemon 
juice,  one  cup  of  milk,  one  egg,  bread  crumbs.  Drain  the  salmon  and 
remove  bones  and  skin.  Make  a  thick  sauce  of  butter,  flour  and  milk. 
Cook  until  smooth  and  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  lemon  juice. 
When  cold  stir  in  salmon.  Shape  into  croquettes,  dip  in  egg  and 
bread  crumbs  and  fry  in  deep  fat. 

MARY  KLENHA. 


14  PRAGUE    CHAPTER    BOOK    OF   RECIPES 


FRIED  HALIBUT  OR  SALMON  STEAKS— Sprinkle  steaks 
on  both  sides  with  salt  and  sugar  and  let  stand  at  least  one  hour  before 
frying.  Drain  off  liquid,  dip  in  beaten  egg,  then  bread  crumbs  and 
fry  in  half  butter  and  half  lard. 

BLANCHE  KAMMERER. 

MOCK  OYSTERS— Four  pounds  of  roasted  veal  cut  in  small 
cubes,  one  large  head  of  cauliflower  boiled  in  salt  water  and  cut  in 
pieces  and  one  can  of  shrimps  or  crab  meat  shredded,  mixed  together. 
Make  a  gravy  of  three  cups  of  beef  stock  thickened  with  a  tablespoon 
of  flour  browned  in  a  tablespoon  of  butter,  add  to  above  ingredients 
and  bring  to  a  boil.  Then  rub  one  can  of  sardells  with  one-half  pound 
of  sweet  butter  to  a  paste.  Grease  large  oyster  shells  with  paste,  fill 
with  the  boiled  mixture,  sprinkle  with  bread  crumbs  and  grated 
American  cheese  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  until  brown. 

FRANCES  KOLAR. 

BAKED  TROUT — Scale  trout  but  do  not  remove  tail  or  fins, 
season  with  salt,  place  in  buttered  roasting  pan,  sprinkle  with  flour  and 
bake  until  half  done,  then  add  one  cup  of  sour  cream,  bay  leaf  and 
small  onion  in  which  a  few  cloves  are  stuck,  slice  of  lemon  and  bake 
until  fish  is  tender. 

ROSE  HAVLATKO. 

CREAM  OF  LOBSTER— Melt  one  tablespoon  butter,  add  one 
tablespoon  flour,  stir  in  slowly  one  cup  milk,  season  with  salt,  pepper 
and  chopped  parsley,  add  one  can  lobster  shredded,  heat  through 
thoroughly,  then  add  one  cup  cream,  stir,  take  from  fire  and  serve  on 
toast. 

BLANCHE  KAMMERER. 

BROILED  HALIBUT  STEAK— Lay  the  steaks  in  salt  and 
water  for  half  an  hour,  then  marinate  in  equal  parts  of  oil  and  lemon 
juice  for  another  half  hour.  Wipe  dry  and  broil,  turning  twice  care- 
fully. Lay  upon  a  hot  platter,  spread  with  a  sauce  made  of  butter, 
lemon  juice  and  minced  parsley,  beaten  to  a  cream.  Set  in  the  oven 
for  a  minute  and  serve. 

MARY  JORDAN. 

BAKED  TROUT— Three  and  one-half  pounds  of  trout,  one  can 
of  tomatoes,  one  onion  cut  fine,  one  piece  of  celery  root,  one  table- 
spoon of  flour,  one  egg  yolk,  Worcestershire  sauce,  one  tablespoon  of 
butter.  Wet  the  flour  with  a  little  of  the  cold  tomato.  Salt  fish  and 
let  stand  several  hours.  Place  fish  in  dripping  pan  with  tomatoes, 
onion,  celery  and  butter,  and  bake  one-half  hour.  Strain  the  sauce 
and  just  before  sending  to  the  table  thicken  with  the  egg  yolk  and  add 
the   Worcestershire  sauce. 

MARY  JORDAN. 


PRAGUE    CHAPTER   BOOK   OF   RECIPES  15 

BOILED  FISH  WITH  LEMON  SAUCE— Three  and  one-half 
pounds  of  pike  or  salmon  trout,  juice  and  grated  rind  of  two  lemons, 
yolks  of  two  eggs,  one  teaspoon  sugar,  salt  to  taste,  parsley,  one  cup 
hot  fish  stock.  Stir  the  grated  rind  of  the  lemons  with  the  beaten 
yolks,  add  the  lemon  juice,  and  very  gradually  pour  on  the  hot  fish 
stock.  Cook  until  thick,  stirring  constantly.  Add  the  sugar  and 
parsley.  Serve  with  fish  boiled  in  water  to  which  salt,  onion,  whole 
pepper,  parsley  and  a  tablespoon  of  lemon  juice  has  been  added.  Skin 
and  bone  fish  before  boiling.  If  sauce  is  not  thick  enough  add  more 
egg  yolks. 

MARY  JORDAN. 

CODFISH  BALLS — One  pint  codfish  picked  very  fine,  two 
pints  potatoes  cut  fine,  put  together  and  boil  until  very  tender.  Drain 
thoroughly,  mash  well,  add  tablespoon  butter,  two  eggs  well  beaten 
and  dash  of  pepper.  Form  into  balls,  dust  with  flour  and  fry  in  hot 
lard. 

BLANCHE  KAMMERER. 

ESCALLOPED  SALMON — Remove  skin  and  bones  from  can 
of  salmon,  chop  fine,  add  salt,  pepper,  teaspoon  butter,  one  of  lemon 
juice  or  vinegar,  one-half  cup  soft  bread  crumbs  and  three  well-beaten 
eggs.  Bake  in  buttered  baking  dish  placed  in  pan  of  boiling  water. 
Bake  twenty  minutes,  turn  out  on  heated  platter  and  pour  over  it  a 
rich  white  sauce. 

BLANCHE  KAMMERER. 

OYSTER  PATTIES — One  pint  small  oysters,  one  cup  cream, 
large  teaspoon  flour,  salt  and  pepper.  Let  cream  come  to  a  boil,  mix 
flour  with  a  little  cold  milk  and  stir  into  boiling  cream,  add  seasoning, 
then  add  oysters  which  have  been  boiled  in  their  own  liquor  a  few 
minutes  and  drained,  boil  up  once,  fill  pattie  shells  and  serve  hot. 

BLANCHE  KAMMERER. 

KEDGEREE — One-half  can  salmon,  two  eggs,  two  cups  boiled 
rice,  two  tablespoons  butter,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  one  tablespoon 
parsley  choped.  Put  butter,  salt,  pepper  in  sauce  pan,  add  rice,  break 
fish  in  small  pieces  removing  bones  and  add  with  whatever  liquid  is  on 
fish,  stir  until  boiling  hot,  then  add  eggs  well  beaten  and  serve  at  once. 

BLANCHE  KAMMERER. 

CREAMED  CRAB  MEAT— Melt  a  tablespoon  of  butter  in  a 
saucepan,  add  one  tablespoon  of  flour  and  stir  until  smooth,  then  add 
one  cup  milk  and  one-half  cup  cream,  stirring  constantly.  When  the 
mixture  has  thickened  add  one  pint  of  crabmeat  and  a  little  cayenne 
pepper.  Heat  thoroughly,  add  the  juice  of  one-fourth  lemon,  and  salt 
to  taste.    Serve  hot  on  toast.    Sprinkle  with  chopped  parsley. 

EMILY  KERNER. 


16  PRAGUE    CHAPTER   BOOK   OF  RECIPES 

CRABMEAT  IN  RAMEKINS— Melt  one  tablespoon  butter,  add 
one  tablespoon  flour  and  stir  until  smooth,  then  add  one  cup  cream 
and  one-fourth  cup  milk,  one-fourth  teaspoon  salt,  pinch  cayenne  pep- 
per. Cook  until  thick,  stirring  constantly.  Remove  from  fire  add  one 
yolk  and  mix  well,  add  one  cup  crabmeat.  Put  into  ramekins,  sprinkle 
with  bread  crumbs,  dot  with  butter,  set  ramekins  in  pan  half  filled  with 
hot  water  and  bake  in  moderate  oven  until  crumbs  are  brown.  Gar- 
nish ramekins  with  sliced  lemon,  sprinkle  one-half  of  each  slice  with 
chopped  parslev,  other  half  with  paprika. 

MARIE  PAIDAR. 

FRESH  CRABMEAT  AND  GREEN  PEPPERS— One  pint 
crabmeat,  two  green  peppers,  one-half  pint  white  sauce.  Cook  crab- 
meat  in  white  sauce  made  as  follows :  One  tablespoon  of  butter,  one 
tablespoon  of  flour,  one-fourth  teaspoon  of  salt,  one-eighth  teaspoon 
of  pepper,  one  cup  of  hot  milk  and  one-half  cup  of  cream.  Melt  the 
butter  in  a  saucepan.  Remove  from  fire  and  mix  with  flour.  Cook 
until  it  bubbles,  then  add  milk  and  cream,  stirring  constantly  until  it 
thickens.  Add  peppers  cut  in  small  pieces,  crabmeat,  season  and 
serve  on  toast. 

ANNA  KADLEC. 


PRAGUE    CHAPTER    BOOK    OF   RECIPES  17 


MEATS 

Not  meat,  but  cheerfulness,  makes  the  feast; 
Who  carves  is  kind  to  two,  who  talks  to  all: 

BAKED  HAM — Soak  raw  ham  (larger  hams  are  more  juicy) 
over  night  in  cold  water.  In  the  morning  cover  with  warm  water, 
add  one  cup  molasses  and  boil  until  you  can  pierce  it  with  fork,  about 
twenty  minutes  to  a  pound.  When  ham  is  boiled  sufficiently  remove 
to  roasting  pan,  peel  off  thick  skin  over  fat  part  of  ham,  cover  with  a 
paste  made  of  Coleman's  dry  mustard  mixed  with  vinegar,  add  four 
cups  of  water  in  which  ham  was  boiled  and  bake  one  hour,  basting 
often.  Scrape  off  any  of  the  mustard  that  becomes  too  brown,  sprinkle 
liberally  with  brown  sugar  and  bake  until  sugar  is  dark  brown. 

MARIE  PAIDAR. 

HAM  EN  CASSEROLE— One  slice  ham  cut  thick,  one  small 
chopped  onion,  one  bay  leaf,  one  blade  mace,  four  cloves,  one-half  tea- 
spoon celery  salt,  one  green  pepper,  chopped,  one  teaspoon  sugar,  salt 
and  pepper,  two  cups  stewed  tomatoes.  Broil  or  pan  broil  ham  on  both 
sides,  place  in  casserole,  add  the  seasonings,  pepper  and  onion.  Add 
the  tomatoes.     Cover  and  bake  slowly  two  and  one-half  hours. 

MARIE  PAIDAR. 

BAKED  HAM  WITH  POTATOES— Two  slices  of  raw  ham 
about  one  inch  thick,  bring  to  boil  and  drain.  Butter  a  baking  dish, 
lay  slices  of  ham  on  bottom,  fill  with  sliced  raw  potatoes  cut  thick,  dot 
with  two  tablespoons  of  butter,  season  with  pepper  and  very  little 
salt,  add  milk  to  fill  dish  three-quarters  and  bake  until  potatoes  are 
tender,  then  place  ham  on  top  and  bake  until  brown. 

MARIE  PAIDAR. 

BOILED  HAM — One  fat  ham,  15  pounds,  one  medium  onion, 
sliced,  one  dozen  cloves,  carrot,  celery,  diced,  cold  water,  ten  pepper 
corns,  two  bay  leaves,  one-half  cup  brown  sugar,  three  cups  rye  bread 
crumbs.  Soak  ham  several  hours  or  over  night  in  cold  water  to  cover. 
Wash  thoroughly,  trim  off  hard  skin  near  end  of  bone,  put  in  a  kettle 
with  the  onion,  carrot,  celery  (twice  as  much  as  you  would  for  flavor- 
ing soups),  and  spices,  cover  with  cold  water,  heat  to  the  boiling  point, 
skim,  and  cook  slowly  until  tender,  5  or  more  hours,  ^  hour  to  a 
pound.  Remove  from  stove,  let  cool  in  brine,  remove  from  water  and 
take  off  the  skin.  Place  in  dripping  pan,  sprinkle  with  the  sugar  and 
a  thick  layer  of  the  bread  crumbs.  Stick  with  cloves  Yz  inch  apart. 
Place  in  oven  to  brown  about  1  hour. 

BERYL  CISLER. 


18  PRAGUE    CHAPTER   BOOK   OF   RECIPES 


SPANISH  CHICKEN— Cut  up  chicken,  place  in  roasting  pan, 
season  with  salt  and  pepper,  add  four  or  five  slices  of  bacon  cubed  and 
fried  with  one  large  onion  until  brown,  one  can  of  tomatoes,  one  cup 
water,  red  pepper  or  paprika  to  taste  and  roast  until  chicken  is  tender. 
Strain  gravy,  thicken  with  a  little  flour  and  water  mixed,  add  one  can 
peas,  one  can  mushrooms  drained,  and  one  cup  cooked  carrots  cut  in 
small  pieces ;  let  come  to  boil,  pour  over  chicken  and  serve.  Beef 
can  be  made  the  same,  only  stew  it  on  top  of  stove  instead  of  roasting. 

MILADA  R.  KOREN. 


STEWED   CHICKEN    WITH    PARSLEY    GRAVY— Joint   a 

stewing  chicken,  cover  with  boiling  water,  add  piece  of  celery,  pars- 
nip, carrot,  parsley,  onion ;  season  with  salt  and  stew  until  tender. 
Remove  chicken  and  strain  broth.  Fry  three  tablespoons  flour  with 
two  tablespoons  butter  until  a  light  yellow,  add  to  half  of  the  chicken 
broth  and  boil  until  thick ;  add  five  sprigs  parsley  chopped  fine  and  a 
little  nutmeg  or  mace  and  perhaps  a  little  more  salt.  When  this  gravy 
is  boiling  drop  in  dumplings  and  boil  fifteen  minutes  over  slow  fire, 
stirring  often. 


DUMPLINGS — One  box  of  Uneeda  crackers,  rolled  fine,  or  same 
amount  of  bread  crumbs.  One  heaping  tablespoon  butter,  half  clove 
garlic  rubbed  with  a  little  salt,  parsley  chopped  fine,  three  eggs  and 
quarter  cup  milk.    Form  balls  size  of  walnut. 

CECELIA  BART  A. 


STEWED  CHICKEN  MUSHROOM  GRAVY— Joint  stewing 
chicken,  cover  with  boiling  water,  add  soup  greens  and  onion,  season 
with  salt  and  stew  till  tender.  Remove  chicken  and  strain.  To  greater 
part  of  broth  add  noodles  or  rice,  boil  until  noodles  are  done  or  rice 
tender  and  serve  as  chicken  soup.  To  remaining  stock  add  dried 
mushrooms  which  have  been  washed,  soaked  about  one  hour  and 
chopped  fine,  boil  until  mushrooms  are  cooked,  then  thicken  gravy 
by  adding  one  heaping  tablespoon  of  flour  fried  light  yellow  in  one 
tablespoon  of  butter.  Season  with  paprika  or  red  pepper  and  serve 
with  dumplings. 

MARY  KEC. 


SPANISH  STEW — Joint  a  plump  chicken  of  about  five  pounds, 
place  in  kettle,  add  one  can  tomatoes,  one  onion,  one  stalk  celery 
and  one  carrot.  Add  enough  water  to  cover,  salt  to  taste,  one-half  of 
a  Mexican  pepper  and  stew  until  chicken  is  tender.  Add  one  tea- 
spoon sugar,  one  can  of  mushrooms,  and  one  can  of  peas  drained. 
Bring  to  a  boil  and  serve. 

MARIE  PAIDAR. 


PRAGUE   CHAPTER   BOOK   OF   RECIPES  19 

CHICKEN  A  LA  KING— One  pint  of  boiled  chicken  cut  in 
thick  pieces,  two  tablespoons  butter,  two  fresh  mushrooms,  one  cup 
cream  and  one  cup  milk,  yolks  of  two  eggs,  one  teaspoon  salt,  one 
green  pepper  and  one  pimento  cut  into  long  thin  strips.  Melt  butter, 
add  mushrooms,  cook  five  minutes.  Add  chicken,  heat  through,  add 
salt  and  the  strips  of  peppers,  beat  the  yolks  until  light,  add  the  milk 
and  cream ;  cook  over  boiling  water,  stirring  constantly  until  thick- 
ened, about  one  and  one-half  minutes.  Then  pour  over  the  hot  chicken 
mixture,  mix  and  serve  at  once  on  toast. 

ANNA  KADLEC. 

CHICKEN  EN  CASSEROLE— Joint  one  chicken  and  roll  in 
flour.  Melt  one  tablespoon  butter  and  one  of  lard  or  butter  substitute, 
add  one  onion  sliced  thin  and  chicken.  Fry  until  browned  on  all 
sides.  Heat  casserole  in  oven  and  in  this  place  one  cup  diced  celery, 
one  green  pepper  cut  fine  and  on  top  of  the  vegetables  place  chicken, 
add  salt  to  season  and  cover  with  hot  water.  Cover  casserole  tightly 
and  bake  in  moderate  oven  until  chicken  is  tender.  A  fowl  too  tough 
to  use  any  other  way  can  be  made  tender  and  delicious  when  cooked 
in  a  casserole. 

ANTONETTE  STIFE. 

HOOSIER  FRIED  CHICKEN— Joint  a  chicken,  season  with 
salt  and  pepper,  roll  in  flour,  and  fry  in  iron  skillet  with  two  table- 
spoons of  butter  and  one  of  lard  until  nicely  brown  on  all  sides,  cover 
with  boiling  water,  cover  skillet  tightly  and  bake  until  chicken  is 
tender.    If  necessary,  thicken  gravy  with  a  little  water  and  flour  mixed. 

MARY  JORDAN. 

BROILED  SPRING  CHICKEN— Take  a  very  young  spring 
chicken  of  about  one  to  one  and  one-half  pounds.  Clean  and 
split  down  the  back,  break  the  joints  and  remove  the  breast 
bone.  Remove  internal  organs  and  clean  thoroughly.  Sprinkle  with 
salt  and  pepper  and  rub  well  with  soft  butter.  Place  in  broiler  and 
broil  20  minutes  over  a  clear  fire,  or  under  the  flame  in  broiling  oven 
of  gas  stove,  being  careful  to  turn  broiler  that  all  parts  may  be 
equally  browned.  The  flesh  side  must  be  exposed  to  the  fire  the 
greater  part  of  the  time  as  the  skin  side  will  brown  quickly.  Remove 
to  hot  platter  and  spread  with  hot  butter. 

Or  chicken  may  be  placed  in  dripping  pan,  skin  side  down, 
seasoned  with  salt  and  pepper  and  spread  with  soft  butter  and  bake 
15  minutes  in  a  hot  oven  and  then  broiled  to  finish. 

BERYL  CISLER. 

CREAMED   CHICKEN   WITH   PAPRIKA   GRAVY— Joint  a 

chicken,  and  season  with  salt.  Fry  one  large  onion  cut  fine  in  table- 
spoon of  butter,  add  chicken  and  pot  roast  until  golden  brown,  then 
cover  with  boiling  water  and  simmer  until  chicken  is  tender.  Mix  two 
tablespoons  flour  into  pint  of  sour  cream,  add  to  chicken,  season  with 
red  pepper  or  paprika  and  boil  until  gravy  is  thickened. 

MILADA  R.  KOREN. 


20  PRAGUE    CHAPTER   BOOK   OF  RECIPES 

CREAMED  CHICKEN— Joint  stewing  chicken,  cover  with  boil- 
ing water,  season  with  salt  and  one  small  onion  and  boil  until  meat 
is  tender.  Remove  chicken,  strain  soup  and  add  one  pint  sweet  cream 
in  which  has  been  thoroughly  mixed  two  heaping  teaspoons  flour,  add 
butter  size  of  a  walnut,  a  little  pepper  and  boil  carefully  ten  minutes. 
Make  dumplings  as  follows :  One  pound  flour,  one  teaspoon  baking 
powder  sifted  together,  then  work  in  a  small  spoon  butter,  add  pinch 
of  salt,  one  cup  of  milk,  mix  all  well,  form  in  small  balls,  drop  in  boil- 
ing salted  water,  boil  fifteen  minutes,  then  drop  them  in  creamed 
soup,  add  chicken,  heat  through,  and  serve  at  once. 

JENNIE  RATA! IK. 

ROAST  SPRING  CHICKEN  WITH  DRESSING— Prepare  two 

chickens  for  roasting,  stuff  with  dressing  as  follows :  One-half  pound 
rolled  crackers,  one  cup  milk,  one  tablespoon  lard,  four  eggs,  one  tea- 
spoon salt  or  more  to  taste,  add  one  clove  garlic  grated,  one  teaspoon 
marjoram,  tablespoon  parsley  chopped  fine  and  one  teaspoon  chives 
mixed  together.  Season  chickens  with  salt  and  caraway  seed,  a  gen- 
erous lump  of  butter  and  roast  until  tender  and  a  rich  brown. 

,. ..„,.■  KATE  MLNARIK. 

POULTRY  DRESSING— For  one  large  chicken  soak  half  loaf 
of  dry  white  bread  in  cold  water.  Chop  chicken  liver,  heart  and  a 
small  onion  fine,  fry  in  a  little  butter  until  onions  are  light  brown. 
Squeeze  most  of  the  water  out  of  bread,  add  the  onions  and  liver,  few 
sprigs  of  parsley  chopped  fine,  salt,  pepper,  two  eggs,  a  tablespoon  of 
butter  and  mix  together  thoroughly. 

BLANCHE  KAMMERER. 

DRESSING  FOR  DUCK  OR  GOOSE— One  cup  of  apples 
chopped,  one  cup  stewed  prunes  cut  in  pieces  and  one  cup  bread 
crumbs,  mixed  together. 

MARY  JORDAN. 

POULTRY  DRESSING— For  one  large  chicken,  grate  one-half 
loaf  of  dry  bread,  add  a  few  crackers  rolled  fine,  two  well  beaten  eggs, 
an  eighth  of  a  teaspoon  of  maze,  a  few  sprigs  of  parsley  chopped  fine, 
large  tablespoon  butter,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  add  one-quarter 
pound  almonds  blanched  and  chopped  and  enough  milk  and  water 
mixed  to  make  dressing  quite  soft. 

MARY  JORDAN. 

JELLIED  CHICKEN— Three  cups  cooked  chicken,  two  table- 
spoons gelatine,  one-half  cup  cold  water,  three  cups  chicken  stock, 
salt  and  pepper.  Soften  the  gelatine  in  cold  water ;  add  the  hot  chicken 
stock  and  seasonings.     Strain  and  when  cold,  add  the  chicken. 

MARIE  PAIDAR. 


PRAGUE   CHAPTER   BOOK   OF   RECIPES  21 

LAMB  STEW — Cover  three  pounds  lamb  shoulder  cut  in  pieces 
with  cold  water  and  boil  about  one  hour,  then  add  three  bunches  of 
young-  carrots  scraped  and  sliced  about  one-half  inch  thick,  season 
with  pepper  and  salt,  two  teaspoons  sugar  and  boil  until  carrots  are 
tender.  Thicken  with  two  tablespoons  flour  browned  in  two  table- 
spoons butter.  MARIE  PAIDAR. 

CHOP  SUEY — One  large  onion  (Spanish  preferred)  cut  in  small 
pieces  and  fried  brown  in  one  tablespoon  butter,  then  add  one  pound 
each  of  veal  and  pork  cut  in  small  squares,  a  teaspoon  salt  and  one 
teaspoon  carraway  seed  can  be  added  if  desired,  cover  with  hot  water 
and  simmer  slowly  one-half  hour.  Then  add  one  cup  dried  mush- 
rooms which  have  been  previously  washed  and  soaked  one  hour,  sim- 
mer with  meat,  add  two  stalks  of  celery  cut  in  small  pieces  and  cook 
until  all  is  tender.  Burn  two  tablespoons  of  sugar  in  a  pan  until 
brown  as  molasses,  add  to  chop  suey  and  thicken  with  one  tablespoon 
flour  mixed  smooth  in  one-half  cup  water.  Boil  few  minutes  longer 
and  serve  with  boiled  rice.  JENNIE  RATAJIK. 

CHOP  SUEY — Cut  up  four  onions,  place  in  skillet  and  add  imme- 
diately two  pounds  of  veal  and  pork  or  round  steak  cut  in  small  pieces, 
also  two  stalks  of  celery  cut  fine,  season  with  red  pepper  and  salt  to 
taste.  Cover  and  let  simmer  adding  water  if  necessary.  When  half 
done  add  dry  mushrooms  boiled  and  strained  and  cook  until  meat  it 
tender.  JOSEPHINE  G.  KLEISNER. 

CHINESE  CHOP  SUEY— Cut  two  pounds  of  lean  pork  or 
chicken  into  one-inch  pieces.  Slightly  brown  two  tablespoons  of 
butter  in  large  skillet,  add  meat  and  fry  until  almost  done.  Cut  up 
four  large  onions,  two  large  stalks  celery  in  one-half-inch  pieces  one 
dozen  Chinese  potatoes  pared  and  sliced  thin,  one  and  one-half  cups 
bamboo  shoots  sliced,  and  one  cup  of  dry  mushrooms,  soaked,  par- 
boiled and  drained.  To  the  fried  meat,  add  the  onions  and  cover,  cook 
slowly  for  a  few  minutes,  add  mushrooms,  celery,  Chinese  potatoes, 
pour  on  a  pint  of  soup  stock  or  boiling  water.  Simmer  for  about  one- 
half  hour  and  add  the  bamboo  shoots.  Mix  one  and  one-half  table- 
spoons corn  starch  in  another  cup  of  soup  stock  or  water.  Pour  on 
the  mixture  and  add  two  tablespoons  of  molasses  and  one-half  cup  of 
Chinese  suey  sauce.    Bring  to  a  boil  and  serve  with  boiled  rice. 

JULIA  M.  FAR  A. 

CHOP  SUEY — Two  pounds  of  pork  shoulder,  one  pound  of  veal, 
or  round  steak,  cut  in  small  pieces,  fry  in  one  heaping  tablespoon  but- 
ter until  quite  brown,  add  four  onions  cut  in  small  pieces  and  let  them 
brown,  then  cover  with  boiling  water,  add  two  stalks  celery  cut  in 
small  pieces,  one-eighth  pound  dried  mushrooms  previously  soaked, 
one  tablespoon  flour  and  stew  carefully  until  meat  is  tender.  Then 
add  four  more  onions  and  two  stalks  celery  cut  in  small  pieces,  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste,  three  teaspoons  of  sugar  burnt  brown  like  molasses, 
one  can  strained  white  mushrooms  and  boil  a  few  minutes  longer, 
serve  with  boiled  rice. 


22  PRAGUE    CHAPTER   BOOK   OF  RECIPES 

RICE — Soak  and  wash  in  several  waters  one  pound  of  rice,  put 
to  boil  with  at  least  four  quarts  cold  water  and  tablespoon  salt,  boil 
eighteen  minutes  from  time  it  starts  to  boil,  strain,  blanch  with  cold 
water,  put  back  on  stove  and  heat  carefully  with  tablespoon  of  butter. 

BLANCHE  KAMMERER. 

BEEF  EN  CASSEROLE— Two  and  one-half  pounds  beef,  chuck 
or  round,  two  tablespoons  beef  drippings,  one  small  carrot,  cut  in  dice, 
one  tablespoon  flour,  one  small  onion,  sliced,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste, 
one  cup  strained  tomatoes,  one  bay  leaf.  Salt  and  pepper  the  meat  and 
dust  with  the  flour.  Heat  the  fat  in  a  frying  pan  and  brown  the  meat  in 
it  on  all  sides.  Place  meat  in  casserole,  add  other  ingredients,  cover 
and  let  simmer  at  a  low  temperature  until  tender,  keeping  the  casserole 
well  covered  so  as  not  to  allow  the  steam  and  juices  to  escape.  Serve 
hot  with  mashed  or  baked  potatoes.  BERYL  CISLER. 

STEAK  IN  CASSEROLE— Broil  a  thick  steak  a  few  minutes; 
then  put  it  into  a  casserole.  Add  one  carrot,  one  onion,  one  parsley 
sprig,  one  bay  leaf,  one-half  turnip,  one  teaspoon  catsup,  six  mush- 
rooms, one  wineglass  Madeira  wine.  Let  cook  slowly  until  vegetables 
are  tender.  MARIE  PAIDAR. 

BEEFSTEAK  AND  ONIONS— Slice  onions  thin.  Place  in 
spider  with  a  little  fat  and  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  brown  slightly, 
add  steaks,  cover  tightly.  When  ready  to  serve  spread  onions  on  top. 
A  nice  way  to  warm  over  steak.  MARIE  PAIDAR. 

FILLET  OF  BEEF — Lard  a  4  pound  fillet,  season  with  salt  and 
pepper,  put  it  into  a  roasting  pan  and  roast  thirty  minutes  in  hot  oven. 
Garnish  with  vegetables.  BERYL  CISLER. 

BRAISED  BEEF — A  piece  of  rump  weighing  three  pounds, 
larded.  Season  with  salt,  pepper,  chopped  parsley  and  a  little  garlic 
minced  fine  if  desired.  Add  one  carrot,  cut  into  round  pieces ;  one 
slice  onion,  one  bay  leaf.  Cover  and  brown  well  on  both  sides.  Baste 
it  often  and  add  a  little  soup  stock.  Brown  and  strain  the  gravy  over 
the  meat.  MARIE  PAIDAR. 

BEEF  STEW — Three  and  one-half  pounds  beef,  one-half  onion, 
one-quarter  cup  turnip,  cut  up,  one-quarter  cup  carrots,  cut  up,  two 
tablespoons  beef  drippings,  two  potatoes,  salt  and  pepper,  one-quarter 
cup  flour,  water  to  cover  dumplings.  Wipe  the  meat,  remove  all  the 
small  pieces  of  bone,  and  cut  into  small  pieces.  Put  the  larger  bones 
and  tough  meat  into  the  kettle  and  cover  with  cold  water.  Dredge 
the  rest  of  the  meat  with  flour,  pepper  and  salt,  and  brown  it  in  the 
melting  fat  in  the  frying  pan.  Brown  the  onions  also.  Then  put  the 
meat  and  onions  into  the  kettle  and  let  it  simmer  2  or  3  hours  or 
until  the  meat  is  tender.  Half  an  hour  before  serving  add  the  other 
vegetables;  15  minutes  before  serving  add  the  dumplings.  Cook  15 
minutes.  When  done  take  out  the  dumplings,  remove  the  pieces  of 
bone  and  fat.  If  necessary  thicken  the  gravy  with  flour  and  add  some 
pepper  and  salt.  One-half  cup  strained  tomatoes  can  be  added,  if 
liked.  MARIE  PAIDAR. 


PRAGUE    CHAPTER   BOOK   OF   RECIPES  23 


BEEF  TENDERLOIN,  EGYPTIAN  STYLE— Cut  a  good-sized 
tenderloin  in  two  lengthwise.  Pound  each  half  and  season  with  salt, 
pepper,  paprika,  a  little  ginger,  chopped  onions  and  bacon.  Put  halves 
together  and  pin  with  toothpicks.  Place  in  roasting  pan  with  a  carrot, 
onion,  parsley,  a  few  whole  spice  and  a  little  water  and  roast  until 
meat  is  tender.  Strain  gravy,  put  on  stove  to  boil  and  add  three 
beaten  yolks  to  which  one  tablespoon  of  flour  has  been  gradually 
added,  boil  until  gravy  is  thickened,  season  with  a  little  sugar,  lemon 
juice  or  vinegar  and  perhaps  a  little  more  salt.  The  gravy  should  be 
sweet  sour. 

SOPHIE  SMAHA. 


BEEF  LOAF — Two  pounds  of  beef,  two  pounds  of  pork  chopped 
fine,  three  eggs  well  beaten,  salt  to  taste,  a  pinch  of  allspice,  ginger 
and  pepper,  two  cloves  of  garlic  grated,  a  little  marjoram  powdered 
and  one  large  onion  chopped  fine  and  fried  a  golden  brown  in  table- 
spoon of  butter.  Soak  three  slices  dry  bread  in  milk  and  add  to  above 
also  two  slices  bread  grated  and  one-half  cup  of  milk.  Stir  together 
thoroughly  and  if  too  dry  add  more  milk.  Place  in  buttered  pan,  form 
into  a  loaf,  lay  sliced  bacon  over  top  and  little  pieces  of  bayleaf  if 
desired,  one  cup  of  water  and  bake  about  one  and  one-half  hours. 
Strain  gravy,  skim  off  all  fat  and  add  two  cups  of  sour  cream  mixed 
with  two  tablespoons  flour,  boil  until  thick. 

MILADA  R.  KOREN. 


BONELESS  BIRDS— Two  pounds  of  round  steak  sliced  thin,  cut 
into  pieces  about  five  inches  square.  On  each  piece  lay  a  small  slice 
of  bacon  and  a  little  chopped  onion,  roll  up,  pin  together  with  tooth- 
picks and  pot  roast  them  to  a  nice  brown  in  a  tablespoon  of  butter 
and  a  little  suet,  large  onion,  carrot  and  tomato,  then  cover  with  water, 
season  with  celery  salt,  salt,  paprika  and  stew  until  birds  are  tender. 
Strain  gravy  and  thicken  with  tablespoon  of  flour  mixed  with  a  little 
water. 

BLANCHE  KAMMERER. 


HAMBURG  STEAKS— One  pound  of  round  steak  ground,  sea- 
son with  salt,  pepper  and  a  few  drops  of  onion  juice.  Form  into  six 
cakes,  handling  as  little  as  possible.  Put  in  a  slightly  greased,  hot 
frying  pan,  sear  on  one  side,  turn  and  sear  on  the  other  side.  Cook 
six  minutes  if  liked  rare,  eight  minutes  if  well  done.  Remove  to  hot 
platter  and  spread  over  the  following:  Maitre  d'hotel  Butter.  Put 
one-fourth  cup  butter  in  bowl,  beat  until  creamy,  add  one-half  tea- 
spoon salt,  one-eighth  teaspoon  pepper  and  one-half  tablespoon  finely 
chopped  parsley,  then  add  very  slowly  three-fourths  tablespoon  of 
lemon  juice.  Garnish  platter  with  buttered  cauliflower  and  sprigs  of 
parsley. 

JULIA  M.  FARA. 


24  PRAGUE    CHAPTER    BOOK    OF   RECIPES 

BEEF  POT  ROAST,  TOMATO  GRAVY— Beef  from  shoulder, 
about  three  pounds ;  pot  roast  in  tablespoon  of  butter  and  a  little  suet, 
large  onion,  parsnip  and  carrot,  until  brown  on  all  sides,  cover  with 
water,  season  with  salt,  celery  salt,  pepper  and  stew  about  an  hour ; 
add  one  small  can  tomatoes,  teaspoon  of  sugar,,  boil  until  meat  is 
tender;  strain  gravy,  thicken  with  two  tablespoons  flour  mixed  in  a 
little  water,  serve  with  boiled  spaghetti,  rice  or  dumplings. 

BLANCHE  KAMMERER. 

CORNED  BEEF  HASH— Two  cups  cold  cooked  corned  beef 
chopped  fine,  two  cups  boiled  potatoes  cubed,  one  onion  chopped  fine, 
one-fourth  cup  cream,  teaspoon  butter  and  salt  and  pepper  to  season. 
Fry  until  under  side  is  nice  and  brown,  fold  one-half  over  the  other  and 
turn  out  on  heated  platter. 

LENA  KRACHT. 

BEEF  WITH  DILL  PICKLE  GRAVY— Three  pounds  beef 
from  shoulder,  water  to  cover,  a  few  whole  allspice  and  peppers,  two 
bay  leaves,  one  large  onion,  salt,  four  dill  pickles  and  vinegar  according 
to  taste.  Remove  meat  when  tender  and  add  to  the  stock  one  pint  sour 
cream  in  which  two  tablespoons  flour  have  been  thoroughly  mixed, 
boil  a  few  minutes,  strain,  pour  over  meat  and  serve. 

MARY  KEC. 

CHILE  CON  CARNI — Brown  four  chopped  onions  in  two  table- 
spoons drippings,  add  two  pounds  ground  flank  or  round  steak.  When 
brown  add  one  cup  celery  and  two  green  peppers  chopped,  also  two 
Mexican  peppers  if  desired  hot,  three  tablespoons  catsup,  one  table- 
spoon Worcestershire  sauce,  two  tablespoons  uncooked  rice ;  cover 
with  water  and  boil  about  half  hour  and,  lastly,  add  one  pound  of 
Mexican  or  kidney  beans  previously  boiled. 

JULIA  M.  FARA. 

HUNGARIAN  GOULASH— One  pound  lean  beef,  one  pound 
lean  veal,  one  tablespoon  fat,  one  large  onion,  diced,  one  teaspoon  pap- 
rika, one  cup  strained  tomatoes.  Veal  and  beef  mixed.  Cut  into  one 
inch  squares  and  brown  in  hot  fat  with  the  onion,  salt  and  paprika. 
When  the  meat  is  brown,  add  the  tomatoes,  and  one-half  hour  before 
serving,  add  some  small  potatoes.     Let  cook  slowly  closely  covered. 

BERYL  CISLER. 

HUNGARIAN  GOULASH— Three  pounds  veal  cut  in  one-inch 
cubes,  three  large  potatoes  diced,  three  large  onions  sliced,  salt  and 
pepper  to  season,  one-half  teaspoon  paprika,  one  cup  cream  and  two 
tablespoons  butter  or  drippings.  Fry  the  onion  in  drippings  until 
brown,  add  veal  and  fry  until  meat  is  nicely  browned,  then  add  one- 
half  cup  water,  cover  closely  and  cook  slowly  until  nearly  done,  then 
add  potatoes  and  seasoning,  cook  until  meat  and  potatoes  are  tender 
and  last  add  cream  in  which  one  teaspoon  of  flour  has  been  thoroughly 
mixed,  boil  together  a  few  minutes  and  serve  at  once. 

LENA  KRACHT. 


PRAGUE    CHAPTER    BOOK   OF   RECIPES  25 

VEAL  CUTLETS— Use  slices  of  veal  from  the  ribs  or  from  the 
leg  cut  y2  inch  thick ;  season  them,  dip  in  crumbs,  then  dip  in  egg,  then 
again  in  cracker  or  bread  crumbs.  Fry  slowly  until  well  browned  in 
salt  pork,  fat  or  butter,  or  finish  cooking  in  oven  in  dripping  pan  with 
plenty  of  fat. 

MARIE  PAIDAR. 

VEAL  LOAF — Three  pounds  of  ground  veal,  quarter  pound  of 
butter,  three  eggs,  half  cup  cream,  four  crackers  rolled  fine,  teaspoon 
of  pepper,  teaspoon  salt,  a  little  powdered  sage,  mix  eggs  with  cream, 
beat  well  together  and  bake  in  loaf  tin  one  and  one-half  hours,  bast- 
ing often. 

ANNA  BROZ. 

VEAL  LOAF — Two  pounds  of  veal  and  one  pound  of  lean  pork 
ground,  two  beaten  eggs,  one  teaspoon  salt,  small  onion  grated,  one- 
half  green  pepper  chopped  fine,  one  cup  of  cream,  four  crackers  rolled 
mix  well.  Put  into  two  small  bread  tins,  lay  slices  of  bacon  on  top 
and  one  bay  leaf  on  each  loaf.    Bake  one  hour  in  hot  oven. 

MARIE  PAIDAR. 

VEAL  ROLLS  OR  MOCK  BIRDS— Take  veal  steak,  cut  thin, 
three  by  five  inches  in  size.  Spread  with  any  desired  Bread  Dressing, 
or  fill  with  chopped  boiled  ham,  a  small  lump  of  butter  or 
other  fat,  salt,  pepper,  chopped  parsley  and  a  little  chopped  onion. 
Make  little  rolls  of  them  and  tie  or  pin  with  a  took  pick.  Brown  them 
well  in  hot  butter.  Add  a  little  soup  stock  and  flour  and  cook  until 
tender.    Add  one  cup  sour  cream  shortly  before  serving. 

JULIA  M.  FARA. 

SEKANINA — Three  pounds  veal,  one  pound  smoked  meat,  one- 
half  pound  bacon  sliced,  four  eggs,  one  cup  farina,  one  clove  garlic,  one- 
half  teaspoon  ground  allspice.  Cook  veal  and  smoked  meat  until 
tender.  Chop  fine.  Mix  farina  with  meat  then  add  to  the  stock,  then 
the  beaten  eggs,  garlic  grated  and  allspice.  Place  in  deep  pan,  lay 
sliced  bacon  on  top  and  bake  slowly  about  three-quarters  hour. 

MARIE  E.  TUREK. 

SWEETBREADS— IK'  pounds  sweetbreads  parboiled  15  min- 
utes in  water  to  which  one  tablespoon  lemon  juice  has  been  added. 
Drain.  Drop  into  cold  water  for  a  few  minutes  then  remove  all 
membrane.  Salt,  roll  in  flour  and  saute  15  minutes  in  two  heaping 
tablespoons  butter.  Place  sweetbreads  in  small  dripping  pan.  Lay 
thin  slices  of  bacon  on  top  of  sweetbreads,  pour  over  the  butter  in 
which  they  were  sauted  and  bake  in  slow  oven  until  bacon  is  brown. 

BERYL  CISLER. 


26  PRAGUE    CHAPTER   BOOK   OF   RECIPES 

FRIED  SWEETBREADS— One  pound  sweetbreads,  one-fourth 
cup  bread  crumbs,  one  egg,  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  one-eighth  tea- 
spoon pepper,  one-eighth  teaspoon  ginger.  Parboil  sweetbreads;  roll 
in  fine  bread  crumbs,  then  egg  and  again  in  crumbs.  Fry  a  nice  brown 
in  deep,  hot  fat  or  in  the  frying  pan  with  a  little  fat.  Serve  with 
tomato  sauce. 

MARIE  PAIDAR. 

SWEETBREADS  WITH  MUSHROOMS— One  and  one-half 
cups  boiled  sweetbreads  (cut  in  cubes),  one  scant  cup  stewed  mush- 
rooms (cut  in  quarters),  one  cup  cream,  one  tablespoon  butter,  two 
eggs  (yolks),  salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Heat  cream  in  a  sauce  pan, 
add  sweetbreads  and  mushrooms,  the  butter,  pepper  and  salt  and 
beaten  yolks.  Cook  until  thick  stirring  constantly,  and  serve  at  once 
on  buttered  toast. 

BERYL  CISLER. 

TO  BOIL  SMOKED  TONGUE— One  smoked  tongue,  cold 
water  to  cover,  six  bay  leaves,  one  teaspoon  whole  pepper,  one  tea- 
spoon cloves,  one  onion,  sliced.  Wash  the  tongue  and  if  dried  out, 
soak  in  cold  water  over  night.  Place  in  kettle  with  seasonings  and  let 
simmer  slowly  until  tender  from  two  to  four  hours.  Then  remove 
from  the  brine,  pull  off  the  outer  skin,  cut  off  root  and  let  cool  in  the 
brine.    May  be  sliced  cold  or  serve  hot  with  sweet  and  sour  sauce. 

BERYL  CISLER. 

PICKLED  BEEF  TONGUE— Cut  up  one  large  onion  into  one 
cup  vinegar,  one  and  one-half  cups  water,  then  add  six  cloves,  six 
allspice,  one  bay  leaf,  piece  lemon  rind,  one  carrot,  one-half  celery 
root  cut  in  small  pieces  and  two  tablespoons  salt.  Boil  ten  minutes 
and  let  cool.  Take  a  tin  pie  plate,  put  on  gas  flame,  place  tongue  on 
plate  for  a  few  minutes  until  skin  loosens  then  peel  off.  Continue 
until  all  skin  is  off,  then  wash  well.  Place  in  dish  and  pour  over  the 
liquid  boiled  with  vegetables  and  seasoning.  Let  stand  two  days. 
Put  on  to  boil  in  same  liquid  and  boil  until  tender.  Remove  tongue, 
add  one  pint  sour  cream,  thickened  with  two  tablespoons  flour.  Boil 
until  smooth,  then  strain.  Cut  tongue  into  slices  and  place  into 
gravy,  and  let  come  to  a  boil.    Serve  with  dumplings. 

JOSEPHINE  HONSIK. 

BAKED  BEANS — Soak  three  cups  of  navy  beans  in  water  over 
night.  In  the  morning  drain,  cover  with  water,  add  a  teaspoon  of  soda 
and  three-fourths  pound  lean  salt  pork  cut  in  two-inch  pieces.  Boil 
one-half  hour,  drain,  then  place  in  small  roasting  pan  and  add  the 
following:  One  can  tomatoes,  one  large  onion  cut  fine,  boil  twenty 
minutes  and  strain,  then  add  three  tablespoons  molasses,  one-half  cup 
syrup,  two  tablespoons  sugar  and  one  teaspoon  Coleman's  mustard. 
Mix  all  together  and  bake  one  and  one-half  hours. 

MARY  JORDAN. 


PRAGUE    CHAPTER   BOOK   OF  RECIPES  27 

RABBITS  WITH  SOUR  CREAM  GRAVY— Two  rabbits  cut  in 
pieces,  cover  with  vinegar  and  water  half  of  each,  one  large  onion 
sliced,  half  a  lemon  sliced,  a  few  whole  allspice,  bay  leaf,  salt  to  taste 
and  let  stand  over  night  or  longer,  if  desired.  Place  rabbits  in  roast- 
ing pan,  add  the  onions,  spices,  etc.,  some  of  the  liquor,  cover  with 
slices  of  bacon,  paprika  and  celery  salt  and  bake  until  nearly  done 
then  pour  over  one  pint  of  sour  cream  mixed  with  one  heaping  table- 
spoon flour  and  tablespoon  of  sugar  and  bake  until  rabbits  are  tender 
and  gravy  golden  brown.  Beef  and  pork  tenderloins  can  be  prepared 
same  way  except  don't  pickle  the  tenderloins  over  night. 

BLANCHE  KAMMERER. 

RABBIT  WITH  DARK  GRAVY— Cut  two  rabbits  into  pieces, 
place  in  large  bowl,  and  cover  with  equal  parts  of  vinegar  and  water; 
one  large  onion  sliced,  four  sprigs  thyme,  one-half  celery  root  sliced, 
three  slices  lemon,  one  or  two  bay  leaves,  one  small  carrot  sliced,  one 
tablespoon  salt,  one  teaspoon  pickling  spices.  Allow  this  to  soak 
one  or  two  days.  Put  to  boil,  add  one-half  pound  prunes,  boil  until 
rabbits  are  tender.  Remove  the  rabbits.  Thicken  gravy  with  one- 
half  pound  ginger  snaps  softened  in  a  little  cold  water.  Brown  one 
tablespoon  butter  and  one  of  sugar,  add  to  gravy.  Boil  until  smooth. 
Strain  and  add  the  rabbit.  Bring  to  boil  and  serve  with  dumplings. 
One-half  cup  blanched  almonds  and  one-fourth  cup  seeded  raisins 
may  be  added  to  gravy. 

MARIE  PAIDAR. 

BOSTON  BAKED  BEANS— Soak  one  quart  of  navy  beans  over 
night.  Cook  until  soft,  then  put  in  pan  with  one  pound  salt  pork 
sliced,  two-thirds  cup  of  molasses,  one  teaspoon  dry  mustard,  two 
teaspoons  salt.  Cover  with  hot  water.  Bake  in  slow  oven  four  hours, 
adding  hot  water  once  or  twice  to  keep  moist. 

MAY  FRIEDL. 

BAKED  BEANS — One  pound  beans  soaked  over  night,  then  boil 
until  tender,  cut  salt  pork  into  dice  pieces  on  bottom  of  pan,  put  beans 
on  top  of  salt  pork,  season  to  taste,  add  two  tablespoons  of  vinegar, 
two  and  one-half  teablespoons  of  sugar,  one-half  bottle  of  catsup, 
cover  with  water  and  bake  four  hours  in  covered  pan. 

MARIE  E.  JIRSA. 


28  PRAGUE    CHAPTER    BOOK    OF   RECIPES 


SANDWICHES  AND  APPETIZERS 

SANDWICHES 

Wheat,  rye  or  Boston  brown  bread  may  be  used. 

Bread  for  sandwiches  cuts  better  when  a  day  old.  Wrap  them 
in  paraffine  paper  to  keep  moist,  or  place  in  a  tin  box.  Cream  or 
wash  the  butter  before  spreading.  Cut  bread  the  shape  as  desired 
before  spreading. 

ROLLED  BREAD — Cut  fresh  bread,  while  still  warm,  in  as  thin 
slices  as  possible,  using  a  very  sharp  knife.  Spread  evenly  with  butter 
which  has  been  washed  and  creamed.  Roll  slices  separately,  and  tie 
each  with  baby  ribbon. 

BERYL  CISLER. 

BREAD  AND  BUTTER  SANDWICHES— Take  wheat,  rye,  en- 
tire wheat,  graham  or  brown  bread.  Remove  end  slice  of  bread. 
Spread  end  of  loaf  evenly  with  creamed  butter.  Cut  off  a  slice  as 
thin  as  possible.  Repeat  until  the  number  of  slices  required  are  pre- 
pared. Put  together  in  pairs,  cut  in  squares,  oblongs,  triangles  or 
rounds  (with  biscuit  cutter),  and  remove  crust  if  you  desire. 

MARIE  PAIDAR. 

CHEESE  SANDWICHES— Cut  thin  slices  of  American,  brick 
or  Swiss  cheese  and  place  between  thin  slices  of  buttered  rye  or 
wheat  bread. 

CECELIA  BART  A. 

CHEESE  SANDWICHES,  HOT— Grated  American  or  New 
York  cream  cheese,  bread,  butter.  Butter  thin  slices  of  bread  very 
lightly,  sprinkle  generously  with  the  cheese ;  press  two  slices  firmly 
together,  cut  in  half  and  toast  quickly.  Serve  at  once,  with  coffee. 
Or,  toast  circular  pieces  of  bread,  sprinkle  with  a  thick  layer  of  grated 
cheese,  seasoned  with  salt  and  cayenne.  Place  in  a  shallow  pan  and 
set  in  oven  to  bake  until  cheese  is  melted.     Serve  at  once. 

MARY  JORDAN. 

COTTAGE  CHEESE  SANDWICHES— One-half  pound  cottage 
or  Neufchatel  cheese,  riced,  one-fourth  cup  pimentos  or  stuffed  olives, 
chopped.  Add  salt  to  cheese  and  mix  to  a  smooth  paste  with  a  little 
cream,  then  gently  stir  in  the  pimentoes.  One-half  cup  chopped  wal- 
nuts may  be  added.     Serve  between  thin  slices  of  bread. 

JULIA  M.  FAR  A. 

GINGER  SANDWICH— One-fourth  cup  finely  chopped  pre- 
served ginger,  one-fourth  cup  pecans  chopped,  two  tablespoons  orange 
pulp,  one  tablespoon  ginger  syrup,  few  grains  salt.  Mix  and  spread 
between  thin  slices  of  graham  or  whole  wheat  bread. 

BERYL  CISLER. 


PRAGUE    CHAPTER    BOOK    OF   RECIPES  29 

DATE  SANDWICH— One-half  cup  dates,  one-half  cup  nuts, 
one-half  cup  whipped  cream,  few  drops  lemon  juice.  Spread  entire 
wheat  bread  with  this  mixture. 

MARY  JORDAN. 

EGG  SANDWICH — Four  hard  cooked  eggs,  salt  and  pepper  to 
taste,  one  tablespoon  chopped  pimento,  one  tablespoon  mayonnaise, 
slices  of  buttered  bread.  Chop  finely  the  whites  of  hard  boiled  eggs; 
force  the  yolks  through  a  potato  ricer.  Mix  yolks  and  whites,  season 
with  salt  and  pepper,  and  moisten  with  mayonnaise.  Spread  mixture 
between  thin  slices  of  buttered  bread. 

BERYL  CISLER. 

EGG  AND  SARDINE  SANDWICH— Sardines,  salt,  pepper, 
lemon  juice,  yolks  of  six  hard  cooked  eggs,  dry  mustard,  round  slices 
of  bread.  Take  equal  quantities  of  egg  yolks  and  sardines,  the  latter 
drained,  skinned  and  boned.  Season  with  salt,  cayenne  pepper  and 
mustard.  Rub  until  smooth  and  add  lemon  juice  or  olive  oil  to  make 
a  paste.  Spread  between  thin  slices  of  buttered  bread  or  on  fresh 
wafers,  or  use  mayonnaise,  in  place  of  the  lemon  juice  and  other 
seasoning. 

CECELIA  BART  A. 

ONION  AND  PEPPER  SANDWICHES— One-fourth  cup 
chopped  green  onions,  one-half  cup  chopped  green  peppers.  Mix 
with  salad  dressing  and  spread  between  thin  slices  of  wheat  bread. 

MARIE  PAIDAR. 

STUFFED  OLIVE  SANDWICHES— Deviled  olives,  mayon- 
naise. Chop  olives  fine  in  a  wooden  bowl,  mix  with  a  little  mayon- 
naise dressing  and  spread  between  thin  slices  of  brown  or  wheat 
bread.    Cut  in  triangles  or  circles. 

BERYL  CISLER. 

CHECKER  BOARD  SANDWICHES— One-inch  slice  brown 
bread,  one-inch  slice  wheat  bread,  butter,  mayonnaise,  or  any  pre- 
ferred sandwich  paste.  Bake  brown  bread  or  graham  bread  in  ordin- 
ary bread  pans,  same  size  and  shape  as  wheat  bread.  Cut  in  one-inch 
slices.  Butter  thickly  one  slice  of  brown  and  one  of  wheat  and  press 
the  buttered  sides  together.  Cut  this  thick  sandwich  in  one-inch 
slices,  crosswise.  Spread  each  of  these  slices  again  thickly  with 
butter  or  any  desired  sandwich  paste  on  cut  side  showing  the  brown 
and  white  layers ;  then  press  the  slices  together  in  pairs  to  form 
long  blocks  two  inches  square,  the  brown  and  white  alternating  each 
other  as  in  a  checker  board.  Then  cut  each  block  in  thin  slices  and 
arrange  on  serving  plate  to  show  checks. 

BERYL  CISLER. 


30  PRAGUE    CHAPTER   BOOK   OF  RECIPES 

RIBBON  SANDWICHES— Five  large  slices  bread  cut  thin,  one 
cup  thick  cream  salad  dressing,  one-fourth  cup  green  pepper  chopped 
fine,  one-fourth  cup  red  radish  skins  chopped  fine,  one-fourth  cup 
cucumber  chopped  fine,  one-fourth  stuffed  olives  chopped  fine.  But- 
ter four  slices  bread  slightly,  spread  the  peppers  on  one  slice,  the 
radish  on  the  next,  the  cucumber  on  the  third,  and  on  the  fourth  the 
olives.  Put  a  thick  layer  of  salad  dressing  on  each  mixture.  Pile  one 
slice  on  top  of  another,  layer  cake  fashion,  with  the  remaining  slice  of 
unbuttered  bread  on  top.  Cut  in  thin  slices  and  arrange  on  serving 
plate  to  show  the  green,  red,  white  and  olive  layers. 

MARIE  PAIDAR. 

LAYER  SANDWICHES— One  pound  cold  boiled  ham  chopped, 
one-half  pound  walnut  meats  grated,  wheat  bread.  Mix  ham  with 
sweet  cream  until  of  right  consistency  to  spread,  and  mix  the  nuts 
with  enough  salad  dressing  to  make  a  smooth  paste.  Remove  crusts 
from  wheat  bread.  Cut  thin.  Spread  one  slice  with  ham  mixture, 
place  a  slice  of  bread  on  top  of  this,  then  spread  with  nut  mixture, 
place  another  slice  of  bread  on  the  nut  mixture  and  spread  with  the 
ham,  alternating  ham  and  nuts  until  six  slices  of  bread  are  piled  on 
top  of  each  other.  If  more  are  wanted,  start  in  the  same  manner  as 
the  first,  never  having  more  than  six  slices  of  bread  in  each  pile. 
Wet  a  napkin  in  warm  water,  wring  out  and  spread  on  platter;  place 
the  bread  on  napkin,  cover,  and  place  a  board  on  top  of  the  bread  and 
a  heavy  weight  or  flat  iron  on  top  of  board.  Let  stand  about  ten  hours. 
When  ready  to  serve,  slice  each  pile  of  bread  one  inch  thick. 

MARIE  PAIDAR. 

PATE  DE  FOIE  GRAS  SANDWICHES— Small  goose  livers, 
two  tablespoons  butter,  three  hard  boiled  eggs,  salt,  pepper  and  a 
little  grated  onion.  Smother  goose  livers  until  soft  in  butter,  mash 
into  a  paste  with  the  eggs,  add  salt,  pepper  and  onion.  Spread  on 
small,  thin  slices  of  toast. 

MARIE  PAIDAR. 

HAM  SANDWICHES— One-half  pound  cold  boiled  ham,  one- 
fourth  cup  mayonnaise,  thin  slices  of  bread.  Chop  ham  very  fine 
without  removing  the  fat.  Mix  with  mayonnaise  and  spread  between 
layers  of  thinly  sliced  bread. 

BERYL  CISLER. 

VEAL  SANDWICHES— One-half  pound  finely  chopped  roast 
veal,  one  chopped  apple,  one  heart  celery  chopped  fine,  six  walnuts 
chopped  fine.  Salad  dressing  to  make  a  smooth  paste.  Mix  and 
spread  between  thin  slices  of  bread. 

CECELIA  BART  A. 

CHICKEN  SANDWICHES— Chop  cold  boiled  or  roast  chicken, 
add  tablespoon  finely  minced  green  pepper,  moisten  with  salad  dress- 
ing and  spread  between  thin  slices  of  bread. 

MARIE  PAIDAR. 


PRAGUE   CHAPTER   BOOK   OF   RECIPES  31 

VEGETABLES 

STUFFED  PEPPERS— Six  green  peppers,  two  cups  of  boiled 
chicken,  veal  or  lamb  chopped,  two  cups  of  boiled  rice,  one  cup  of 
strained  tomatoes,  one  tablespoon  of  grated  onion,  two  and  one-half 
tablespoons  of  melted  butter,  three-fourths  cup  of  meat  stock,  two 
tablespoons  of  fresh  bread  crumbs.  Remove  stem  end  and  seeds  of 
peppers,  boil  ten  minutes  in  boiling  salt  water;  drain  and  fill  with 
the  meat,  rice,  tomatoes,  onion  and  bread  crumbs  mixed.  Place  in 
baking  dish,  add  tomatoes  and  bake  twenty-five  minutes. 

ANNA  KADLEC. 

STUFFED  GREEN  PEPPERS  WITH   TOMATO   SAUCE— 

Six  green  peppers,  one  pound  of  ground  pork,  one  egg,  dash  of  salt 
and  pepper,  one  small  stalk  of  celery,  one  large  onion,  one  large  table- 
spoon of  butter.  Clean  and  scoop  peppers.  Mix  pork  with  egg, 
salt  and  pepper,  and  stuff  into  peppers.  Cut  the  onion  and  fry  in  but- 
ter, then  add  the  peppers,  and  stew  under  cover  until  peppers  are  ten- 
der. Then  add  can  of  tomatoes  with  the  celery  cut  into  pieces  and 
stew.    Serve  with  dumplings. 

ANNA  KADLEC. 

VICTORIA  PEPPERS— Remove  the  seeds  and  veins  from  pep- 
pers, cut  in  strips  and  cover  with  cold  water,  bring  to  a  boiling  point 
and  boil  ten  minutes ;  drain.  To  six  peppers  add  one  chopped  onion, 
one  cup  boiled  or  canned  peas,  one  cup  celery  cut  fine,  three  tomatoes 
sliced,  salt,  three  tablespoons  parmesan  cheese  and  three  tablespoons 
of  melted  butter.  Mix  all  well  together  then  put  into  buttered  pan, 
cover  with  bread  crumbs,  pour  over  one-half  cup  of  water  and  dot 
with  butter  and  bake. 

MARIE  E.  JIRSA. 

CORN  AND  GREEN  PEPPERS— Cut  the  kernels  from  six  ears 
of  corn,  chop  one  green  pepper,  slightly  brown  two  tablespoons  of 
butter,  add  corn  and  peppers,  cover  and  fry  slowly  twenty  minutes. 
Salt  and  pepper  to  taste. 

MARIE  PAIDAR. 

CORN  (SOUTHERN  STYLE)— One  can  corn,  two  eggs,  one 
teaspoon  salt,  one-eighth  teaspoon  of  pepper,  one  and  one-half  tea- 
spoon of  melted  butter,  one  pint  of  hot  milk.  Beat  eggs  slightly,  add 
the  rest  of  the  ingredients  and  turn  into  a  well  buttered  pudding  dish. 
Bake  until  firm  in  a  slow  oven  and  serve  hot. 

JULIA  M.  FARA. 

BAKED  TOMATO  AND  CORN— One  can  of  tomatoes,  one 
can  of  corn,  four  crackers  rolled  fine,  one  green  pepper  chopped,  one 
teaspoon  of  salt,  one  tablespoon  of  sugar,  butter  size  of  an  egg.  Mix 
all  together,  pour  in  buttered  pan  and  bake  one  hour. 

MARIE  PAIDAR. 


32  PRAGUE    CHAPTER   BOOK   OF  RECIPES 

CORN  FRITTERS— One  can  corn,  or  six  raw  ears  of  corn, 
two  eggs,  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  three  tablespoons  milk,  two  table- 
spoons flour.  Grate  the  corn  off  the  cobs,  or  strain  the  canned  corn. 
To  the  pulp  add  the  yolks  beaten,  the  rest  of  the  ingredients  and  the 
beaten  whites  last.  Drop  by  teaspoonfuls  in  deep,  hot  fat  and  fry 
until  nicely  brown  on  a  hot  greased  griddle  or  frying  pan.  Serve 
with  hot  syrup. 

EGGPLANT — Cut  in  slices  without  paring,  sprinkle  with  salt, 
roll  in  towel  and  let  stand  about  one  hour,  rinse  in  cold  water,  drain, 
roll  in  flour,  then  in  beaten  egg,  then  in  cracker  or  bread  crumbs,  and 
fry  brown  in  hot  lard. 

ROSE  HAVLATKO. 

MUSHROOM  SAUTES— One  pound  of  fresh  mushrooms,  two 
tablespoons  of  butter,  juice  of  one-half  lemon,  one-fourth  teaspoon  of 
salt,  one-eighth  teaspoon  of  pepper,  one  teaspoon  of  parsley  chopped. 
Wash,  remove  stems,  peel  caps  and  break  in  pieces.  Place  in  spider 
with  butter  and  seasoning.  Cover  and  cook  ten  minutes,  tossing  them. 
Add  lemon  juice  and  parsley  and  serve  on  hot  slices  of  toast. 

JULIA  M.  FAR  A. 

BRUSSELS  SPROUTS— Wash  in  cold  water,  pick  off  the  wilted 
leaves,  and  put  into  salted  boiling  water,  adding  one-fourth  teaspoon 
soda.  Boil  rapidly  for  twenty  minutes,  uncovered.  Drain.  Fry 
cracker  or  bread  crumbs  in  butter  to  a  light  brown  and  pour  over 
sprouts. 

MARY  KEC. 

SCALLOPED  CAULIFLOWER— One  large  head  white  cauli- 
flower, one  cup  of  bread  crumbs,  two  tablespoons  melted  butter,  three 
tablespoons  of  cream,  one  well  beaten  egg,  saltspoon  of  salt  and  dash 
of  pepper.  Clean  cauliflower  and  set  into  salt  water  for  one  hour. 
Then  boil  in  salt  water  until  tender.  When  done  place  into  buttered 
dish  with  stem  down.  Make  a  sauce  with  the  crumbs,  beaten  eggs, 
butter  and  cream,  salt  and  pepper.  Pour  this  over  the  cauliflower, 
cover  the  dish  tightly  and  bake  about  ten  minutes.  Remove  lid  and 
brown  nicely.     Serve  in  baking  dish  very  hot. 

ANNA  KADLEC. 

SPINACH — One-half  peck  spinach,  two  tablespoons  of  butter, 
one  teaspoon  of  chopped  onion,  one-eighth  teaspoon  pepper,  one  pinch 
of  nutmeg,  one  cup  soup  stock.  Pick  off  the  roots  and  decayed  leaves, 
wash  in  several  waters.  Put  the  spinach  in  a  large  kettle  in  plenty 
of  boiling  salted  water,  then  boil  until  tender.  Drain  and  chop  very 
fine.  Melt  butter  in  a  spider,  add  chopped  onion,  fry  until  a  light 
brown,  add  one  teaspoon  of  flour  and  stir  again  until  light  brown,  then 
add  other  ingredients  and  bring  to  a  boil. 

MARIE  E.  TUREK. 


PRAGUE   CHAPTER   BOOK   OF   RECIPES  33 

GOLDEN  BROWN  RICE  BALLS— One  cup  of  milk  with  two 
cups  of  boiling  water  in  the  top  of  a  double  boiler,  add  three-fourths 
cup  of  washed  rice,  grated  rind  of  lemon,  salt  and  let  steam  until  dry 
and  tender,  then  add  two  tablespoons  of  butter.  Cool  the  mixture, 
shape  into  cones  or  balls,  dip  in  egg,  then  in  bread  crumbs,  and  fry 
in  deep  lard  till  nicely  browned. 

MAY  FRIEDL. 

SPANISH  RICE — Brown  one-half  cup  of  butter,  add  one  can  of 
tomatoes,  bring  to  a  boil  and  add  three  cups  of  boiled  rice,  three  tea- 
spoons of  sugar,  one  and  one-half  teaspoons  of  salt,  pepper  to  taste, 
two  ounces  of  finely  cut  pimento  and  soda  size  of  a  pea,  mix.  Let 
come  to  boil  and  serve. 

MARIE  E.  TUREK. 

RICE  CROQUETTES— Two  cups  cold  boiled  rice,  butter  size 
of  walnut,  teaspoon  of  sugar,  half  teaspoon  of  salt,  one  well  beaten 
egg,  mix  together  thoroughly,  form  in  croquettes,  brush  with  beaten 
egg,  roll  in  bread  crumbs  and  fry  in  deep  hot  lard,  handling  carefully. 

BLANCHE  KAMMERER. 

SUCCOTASH — One  cup  boiled  corn,  one  cup  boiled  lima  beans, 
butter,  salt,  pepper,  one-fourth  teaspoon  milk.  Cut  one  cup  of  corn 
from  cob,  add  the  cooked  beans  and  heat  all  together  a  few  minutes 
and  then  serve. 

BERYL  CISLER. 

DRIED  LIMA  BEANS— Soak  one  pint  of  dried  beans  over 
night.  Drain.  Cover  them  with  freshly  boiling  water;  cook  slowly 
one  hour.  Drain  off  this  water.  Cover  again  with  boiling  water, 
add  one-sixteenth  teaspoon  of  bicarbonate  of  soda,  a  sprig  of  mint 
if  you  have  it,  and  one  teaspoon  salt.  Cook  until  tender.  Drain  and 
season  with  salt,  pepper,  butter  and  one  cup  of  hot  cream  or  make  a 
plain  white  sauce  and  pour  over  beans. 

BERYL  CISLER. 

STRING  BEANS  AND  EGGS— Cut  up  one  pound  wax  beans 
into  one-half  inch  pieces.  Boil  in  salted  water  until  tender,  drain. 
Melt  one  large  tablespoon  of  butter  in  skillet,  add  beans  and  let  fry 
slowly  for  a  few  minutes,  then  add  three  slightly  beaten  eggs  and 
stir  until  eggs  are  cooked,  add  pepper  and  serve. 

JULIA  M.  FARA. 

STEWED  TOMATOES— One  can  corn,  salt,  pepper,  one  tea- 
spoon sugar,  one  cracker  broken  into  small  pieces,  one  teaspoon 
butter.     Heat  and  serve. 

BERYL  CISLER. 

STUFFED  TOMATOES— Take  firm  tomatoes.  Scoop  out  the 
center.  Season  with  salt  and  pepper.  Break  an  egg  into  each  tomato. 
Sprinkle  with  salt  and  pepper,  cover  with  bread  crumbs,  dot  with 
butter  and  bake  in  moderate  oven  until  egg  is  set. 

MARY  KEC. 


34  PRAGUE    CHAPTER   BOOK   OF  RECIPES 

CARROTS  AND  PEAS— One  pint  carrots,  one-half  cup  soup 
stock,  two  tablespoons  butter  or  fat,  one  pint  peas,  one-half  cup  car- 
rot water,  two  tablespoons  flour.  Wash,  scrape  and  cut  carrots  in 
small  cubes,  cook  until  tender,  drain  and  reserve  one-half  cup  carrot 
water.  Mix  carrots  well  with  cooked  green  peas.  Sprinkle  with  flour, 
salt,  sugar  and  pepper  to  taste,  add  fat  or  butter,  soup  stock  and 
carrot  water,  boil  a  little  longer  and  serve. 

BERYL  CISLER. 

SWEET  AND  SOUR  CABBAGE— One  quart  cabbage,  (red  or 
white),  two  sour  apples,  two  tablespoons  fat,  four  tablespoons  sugar, 
two  tablespoons  vinegar,  salt  and  pepper,  two  tablespoons  flour.  Shred 
the  cabbage  fine,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  add  the  apples  cut  in  slices. 
Heat  the  fat  in  a  spider,  add  the  cabbage  and  apples.  Pour  boil- 
ing water  over  them  and  let  cook  until  tender;  sprinkle  over  the  flour, 
add  sugar  and  vinegar.  Cook  a  little  longer  and  then  serve  hot  with 
Potato  Dumplings.  If  red  cabbage  is  used  pour  boiling  water  over 
it  two  or  three  times  to  take  out  some  of  the  color. 

BERYL  CISLER. 

SPAGHETTI— Boil  spaghetti  in  boiling  salted  water  twenty 
minutes  then  drain.  Fry  one-quarter  pound  diced  bacon  with  two 
onions  chopped  fine,  add  small  can  tomatoes,  season  with  salt  and  pap- 
rika, add  to  spaghetti,  mix  well,  place  in  pan  sprinkled  with  grated 
American  cheese  and  bake  half  an  hour. 

ROSE  HAVLATKO. 

POTATO  PUFF  BALLS— To  each  cup  of  mashed  potato  add 
one  beaten  egg,  two  tablespoons  milk,  one  tablespoon  flour,  one- 
quarter  teaspoon  baking  powder  and  a  little  salt.  Mix  well.  Drop  by 
tablespoons  into  deep  fat  and  fry  a  golden  brown. 

JULIA  M.  FAR  A. 

POTATO  NOODLES— Take  left-over  mashed  potatoes,  add  one 
egg,  beaten,  salt,  and  enough  flour  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Roll  about 
one-half  inch  thick  and  cut  into  strips  about  two  inches  long,  and 
drop  into  boiling  salted  water,  and  cook  about  ten  minutes.  Drain  and 
pour  over  one-quarter  pound  butter  which  has  been  browned  slightly 
with  bread  or  cracker  crumbs. 

MARY  KEC. 

SWEET  POTATO  CROQUETTES— One  pint  mashed  sweet 
potatoes,  two  tablespoons  of  butter,  one-eighth  teaspoon  pepper,  one- 
half  teaspoon  of  salt,  yolk  of  one  egg.  Mix  together  all  the  ingredi- 
ents, rub  through  a  sieve  and  add  one  teaspoon  of  chopped  parsley. 
Shape  into  smooth  balls,  then  into  cylinders.  Dip  in  bread  crumbs, 
then  in  beaten  egg,  then  in  crumbs  again.  Fry  in  deep  hot  fat.  Drain 
on  paper  and  serve  on  hot  dish. 

MARY  JORDAN. 


PRAGUE   CHAPTER   BOOK   OF  RECIPES  35 

SURPRISE  POTATO  BALLS— Six  large  potatoes,  three  hard- 
boiled  eggs,  one  tablespoon  of  butter,  one  tablespoon  of  milk  and  two 
eggs,  and  bread  crumbs.  Boil  potatoes  and  then  mash  with  butter 
and  milk  and  cool.  Cut  hard  boiled  eggs  into  quarters,  sprinkle  with 
salt.  Cover  each  quarter  with  potatoes  and  make  into  balls  or  egg 
shape.  Roll  into  flour,  then  into  the  beaten  egg  seasoned  with  salt  and 
pepper,  and  then  into  bread  crumbs.     Fry  in  hot  fat  and  serve  hot. 

ANNA  KADLEC. 

SPECIAL  BAKED  POTATOES— Select  large  potatoes,  scrub 
and  bake.  Cut  off  tops  of  potatoes  lengthwise,  scoop  out,  mash,  add 
salt  and  cream  and  beat  until  smooth,  fill  potato  shells,  smooth,  and 
dot  with  butter,  sprinkle  lightly  with  paprika  and  place  in  oven  to 
brown. 

MARIE  PAIDAR. 

POTATOES  PARISIENNE— Select  large,  round  potatoes,  pare 
and  cut  from  them  about  three  cups  of  small  balls,  pour  boiling  water 
over  them,  add  a  teaspoon  of  salt  and  let  boil  rapidly  about  ten 
minutes.  Drain,  rinse  in  cold  water  and  drain  again.  Then  dry  on  a 
cloth,  heat  a  few  tablespoons  of  olive  oil  or  clarified  butter  in  a  frying 
pan,  set  the  pan  into  a  hot  oven  and  let  the  potatoes  cook,  shaking 
often  until  uniformly  browned. 

JULIA  M.  FARA. 

POTATOES  WITH  BACON— Cut  bacon  into  cubes  and  fry, 
add  one  good  sized  onion  cut  fine.  When  browned  add  boiled  sliced 
potatoes,  mix  well.  Sprinkle  a  little  flour  over  them  and  pour  in 
enough  soup  stock  to  make  a  gravy.  Season  with  pepper  and  a  pinch 
of  marjoram.    Let  boil  up  well  and  serve  hot. 

JULIA  M.  FARA. 

ESCALLOPPED  POTATOES— Slice  raw  potatoes,  place  layer 
in  bottom  of  baking  pan,  sprinkle  with  salt,  pepper,  bits  of  butter, 
grated  American  cheese,  then  another  layer  of  potatoes,  seasoning, 
etc.,  until  pan  is  filled,  having  grated  cheese  on  top.  Then  add  enough 
milk  to  fill  pan  three-quarters  full  and  bake  about  one  hour. 

BLANCHE  KAMMERER. 

CANDIED  SWEET  POTATOES— Parboil  three  pounds  of 
sweet  potatoes,  peel  and  cut  each  potato  lengthwise  into  eight  pieces. 
Place  in  baking  dish  and  pour  over  them  a  syrup  of  one  pound  of 
medium  brown  sugar,  one  cup  of  butter  and  two  cups  of  water,  boil 
ten  minutes.    Bake  one  hour  in  moderate  oven. 

MARIE  PAIDAR. 

BAKED  CABBAGE— Parboil  a  small  head  of  cabbage,  drain, 
add  fresh  water  and  boil  until  tender.  Cool  and  chop  fine,  add  two 
beaten  eggs,  one  tablespoon  of  butter,  half  cup  of  cream,  a  little  pep- 
per and  half  teaspoon  of  salt.     Bake  until  brown. 

BLANCHE  KAMMERER. 


36  PRAGUE    CHAPTER   BOOK   OF  RECIPES 


SWEET  POTATOES— Boil  three  pounds  of  sweet  potatoes  until 
tender,  peel  and  put  through  coarse  sieve,  add  three-fourths  cup  of 
sweet  cream  and  one  teaspoon  of  salt.  Beat  well.  Put  in  a  buttered 
pan,  dot  with  butter  and  place  in  oven  until  brown. 

MARIE  PAIDAR. 

MASHED  SWEET  POTATOES— Four  large  baked  sweet  pota- 
toes, three-fourths  cup  of  cream,  salt  and  pepper.  Scoop  out  potatoes, 
add  salt,  pepper,  cream  and  butter,  and  mash  until  creamy.  Bake  in  a 
buttered  dish  in  hot  oven  until  brown. 

JULIA  M.  FAR  A. 

CHEESE  BALLS — One  cup  grated  cheese,  one-fourth  teaspoon 
salt,  paprika,  three  drops  Worcestershire  sauce.  Beat  whites  of  two 
eggs  and  add  enough  of  the  white  to  moisten  above  ingredients  to 
make  into  balls.    Roll  in  bread  crumbs  and  fry  in  hot  lard. 

JOSEPHINE  HONSIK. 


PRAGUE   CHAPTER   BOOK   OF   RECIPES  37 

SALADS 

uThe  fate  of  nations  depends  upon  how  they  are  fed." 

CHICKEN  SALAD — Roast  two  four-pound  spring  chickens  with 
two  slices  of  bacon  and  quarter  of  a  pound  of  butter,  add  salt  and 
water.  While  warm  cut  into  small  pieces  and  add  half  cup  of  chicken 
gravy,  three  hard  boiled  eggs  chopped  and  two  and  a  half  cups  diced 
celery, 

KATE  MLNARIK. 

CHICKEN  SALAD  DRESSING— One  cup  of  vinegar,  half  cup 
of  water,  two  and  a  half  tablespoons  of  sugar,  one  tablespoon  of  but- 
ter, one  teaspoon  of  salt,  one  teaspoon  of  mustard,  one-eighth  teaspoon 
of  red  pepper,  two  tablespoons  of  flour,  three  eggs  well  beaten.  Cook 
all  together  until  thick  and  smooth,  add  this  dressing  to  the  chicken, 
eggs  and  celery,  and  allow  to  stand  about  three  hours  before  serving. 

KATE  MLNARIK. 

CHICKEN  SALAD — Cut  up  one  cold  cooked  fowl  into  dice, 
remove  all  skins  and  gristle,  mix  in  two  cups  of  celery,  add  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste,  mix  thoroughly  and  set  in  the  ice  chest.  When  ready 
for  the  table  pour  over  mayonnaise  dressing,  mixing  it  thoroughly, 
set  in  cool  place  until  ready  to  serve,  garnish  with  lettuce,  hard  boiled 
eggs  and  stuffed  olives  or  strips  of  pimentos. 

MARY  POCH. 

FISH  SALAD — Mix  together  lightly  one  cup  of  cold  cooked  fish 
broken  in  pieces,  two  cups  of  cold  boiled  potatoes  cubed  and  one  cup 
of  strained  peas,  add  two  tablespoons  of  olive  oil  and  moisten  with 
salad  dressing.  Let  stand  one  hour  and  garnish  with  hard  boiled 
eggs. 

CECELIA  BART  A. 

CRAB  MEAT  SALAD— One  pound  can  crab  meat,  four  hard 
cooked  eggs,  salt  and  paprika,  one-half  cup  almonds  blanched,  one 
cup  cream  salad  dressing,  one  pint  whipping  cream,  one  green  pepper 
or  pimento,  lettuce.  Pull  out  the  bones  and  cut  crab  meat  in  large 
pieces.  Cut  the  whites  of  the  eggs  into  cubes.  Cut  the  almonds  into 
thin  lengthwise  strips.  Mix  these  ingredients.  Whip  the  cream  very 
stiff.  Add  gentle  to  the  mayonnaise  dressing.  Add  salt  and  paprika. 
x\dd  dressing  to  crab  mixture.  Serve  small  mounds  on  individual 
salad  plates  on  a  nest  of  lettuce  leaves  and  garnish  with  strips  of 
pimento  or  green  pepper  and  top  with  a  piece  of  the  egg  yolks. 

MARIE  PAIDAR. 

LOBSTER  SALAD — One  can  of  lobster,  one  cucumber,  one 
green  onion,  one  green  pepper,  one  stalk  of  celery,  one  boiled  potato, 
three  olives,  two  hard  boiled  eggs;  break  lobster  into  pieces,  cut  vege- 
tables and  eggs  in  small  pieces  and  pour  over  a  salad  dressing. 
Shrimps  can  be  used  in  place  of  lobster. 

MARIE  PAIDAR. 


38  PRAGUE    CHAPTER   BOOK   OF  RECIPES 

SALMON  SALAD — Drain,  remove  bone,  skin  and  flake  into 
pieces  one  can  of  salmon,  sprinkle  with  lemon  juice  and  let  stand  until 
thoroughly  chilled.  Then  add  one  cup  of  celery  diced  and  mayon- 
naise dressing  to  moisten.  Serve  on  lettuce  leaves  and  garnish  with 
hard  boiled  eggs,  olives  and  chopped  pimentos. 

CECELIA  BART  A. 

HAM  SALAD — One  cup  diced  boiled  ham,  one  cup  of  diced  cel- 
ery and  one  green  pepper  chopped,  mix  with  cream  salad  dressing. 
Serve  in  nests  of  lettuce  leaves,  and  garnish  with  the  following:  Take 
any  soft  cream  cheese,  rubbed  smooth  with  cream,  salt  and  a  chopped 
pimento,  and  form  into  balls  about  the  size  of  a  hickory  nut. 

MILADA  R.  KOREN. 

HAM  OR  TONGUE  SALAD  FOR  TWELVE  PEOPLE— Two 

pounds  cold  boiled  ham  or  tongue,  one-half  teaspoon  paprika,  Mayon- 
naise, one-half  cup  capers,  red  radishes.  Chop  ham  or  tongue  very 
fine.  Sprinkle  with  paprika  and  mix  with  Mayonnaise.  Place  on 
platter.  Garnish,  dividing  the  meat  in  sections  and  fill  dividing  lines 
with  capers.  Make  a  circle  of  red  radishes  cut  to  resemble  tulips, 
and  place  around  the  meat;  add  a  border  of  Saratoga  Chips. 

BERYL  CISLER. 

TONGUE  SALAD — Fresh  tomatoes,  one  cup  cold,  boiled,  pickled 
tongue,  two  cups  celery,  diced,  one-half  cup  Mayonnaise,  lettuce  leaves. 
Cut  tops  of  sound  round  tomatoes,  but  do  not  peel.  Scoop  out 
the  juice  and  pulp  and  set  aside  to  keep  cool.  Add  some  of  the  firm 
pulp  to  tongue  and  celery  and  mix  with  some  of  the  Mayonnaise, 
thinned  with  cream  or  lemon  juice.  Keep  cool,  at  serving  time  fill  the 
tomato  cups,  place  on  lettuce,  add  a  tablespoon  of  the  Mayonnaise  on 
the  top  of  each  tomato. 

BERYL  CISLER. 

KIDNEY  BEAN  SALAD— One  can  kidney  beans  rinsed  in  cold 
water,  one-half  cup  celery  cut  in  squares,  one-half  cup  sweet  pickles 
cut  in  pieces,  one-half  Spanish  onion.  Pour  over  the  following.  One- 
half  cup  vinegar,  two  tablespoons  sugar,  one-quarter  teaspoon  salt, 
one-half  teaspoon  dry  mustard,  one  beaten  egg,  one  tablespoon  flour. 
Cook  in  double  boiler  until  it  thickens.  If  too  thick,  thin  with  sweet 
cream. 

KATE  MLNARIK. 

GERMAN  CELERY  SALAD— Peel  and  slice  in  one-half  inch 
pieces,  six  celery  roots,  boil  in  salt  water  until  tender,  drain,  add  one 
onion  cut  in  small  pieces,  pepper,  and  pour  over  the  following:  Cut 
four  slices  of  lean  bacon  into  dice,  fry  until  a  light  brown,  then  add 
one-half  cup  of  vinegar  and  one-half  cup  of  water  and  one  tablespoon 
of  sugar.  Pour  boiling  hot  over  celery  and  let  stand  about  one  hour 
before  serving.  Green  or  wax  beans  can  be  prepared  in  the  same 
way. 

MARIE  PAIDAR. 


PRAGUE    CHAPTER   BOOK   OF  RECIPES  39 

RED  BEET  SALAD— Two  red  beets  pickled,  four  boiled  pota- 
toes, one  small  onion,  sliced,  served  on  lettuce  leaves  with  a  dressing 
made  of  half  cup  of  vinegar,  one  teaspoon  of  sugar,  half  teaspoon  of 
salt,  dash  of  pepper  and  teaspoon  of  olive  oil. 

MARIE  E.  TUREK. 

CHICKEN  SALAD  IN  TOMATOES— Cut  a  slice  from  the  top 
of  as  many  ripe,  smooth  tomatoes  as  you  wish  to  serve.  Scoop  the 
inside  out  carefully,  keeping  the  shell  as  whole  as  possible.  Make 
chicken  salad  after  foregoing  recipe  and  fill  in  the  tomato  shells. 
Place  on  lettuce  leaves  on  small  plates  and  dress  the  top  of  each 
tomato  with  a  teaspoon  of  Mayonnaise. 

POTATO  SALAD — Dressing :  Three-quarters  cup  vinegar,  one- 
half  cup  water,  one  teaspoon  mustard,  five  beaten  eggs.  Pour  this 
dressing  over  one-quarter  peck  potatoes  boiled  and  sliced,  three  large 
onions,  four  hard  boiled  eggs,  one-half  pound  melted  butter,  three 
stalks  celery,  salt,  pepper  and  parsley. 

ROSE  WASKA. 

POTATO  SALAD — Twelve  potatoes,  boiled  in  jackets,  peeled 
and  cut  into  cubes,  whites  of  three  hard  boiled  eggs  chopped  not  too 
fine,  one  bunch  green  onions  sliced  fine,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  and 
stalk  of  celery  cut  fine.  Mix  together  with  following  dressing:  Two 
eggs  well  beaten,  a  scant  half  cup  vinegar,  two  tablespoons  sugar, 
one-half  teaspoon  salt  and  teaspoon  butter.  Boil  until  thick  and  when 
cold  thin  with  cream.  Line  salad  bowl  with  lettuce  leaves,  add  salad 
and  garnish  with  yolks  chopped  fine  and  parsley  chopped  fine. 

BLANCHE  KAMMERER. 

POTATO  SALAD— Boil  quarter  of  a  peck  of  potatoes,  cut  in 
dice,  two  stalks  of  celery  cut  fine,  boil  quarter  cup  of  vinegar,  one- 
eighth  cup  of  water,  one  teaspoon  of  sugar,  one  teaspoon  of  salt,  one- 
quarter  teaspoon  of  pepper,  when  cold  pour  over  potatoes.  Beat  two 
yolks  of  eggs  into  half  a  pint  of  sweet  cream.    Mix  into  salad. 

ANNA  ROUBIK. 

POTATO  SALAD  WITH  BACON— Seven  pounds  of  potatoes, 
one-half  pound  of  bacon,  sliced  and  cut  fine,  one  onion  cut  fine,  salt 
and  pepper  to  taste,  one  cup  of  vinegar,  one  cup  of  water,  two  table- 
spoons of  sugar,  one  heaping  tablespoon  of  flour.  Scrub  potatoes, 
boil  until  tender,  drain  and  while  hot  peel  and  cut  into  one-fourth-inch 
slices,  add  salt  and  pepper.  Place  bacon  in  spider  and  pour  over  it 
two  tablespoons  of  boiling  water,  and  let  fry  light  brown,  add  vinegar, 
water,  sugar  and  flour  mixed  with  one-fourth  cup  of  cold  water.  Cook 
until  smooth,  pour  over  sliced  potatoes,  add  onions  and  mix  thorougly, 
pour  one-quarter  cup  boiling  water  over  potatoes  before  adding 
dressing. 

MARIE  PAIDAR. 


40  PRAGUE    CHAPTER    BOOK   OF  RECIPES 

TOMATO  SALAD— Three  sliced  tomatoes,  three  sliced  hard 
boiled  eggs,  served  on  watercress  or  lettuce  leaves.  Serve  with  French 
dressing. 

MARIE  E.  TUREK. 

STUFFED  TOMATO  SALAD— Six  ripe  tomatoes,  two  cucum- 
bers, lettuce,  salt  and  pepper,  one  stalk  of  celery,  one-half  pint  of 
cream  salad  dressing.  Scald  the  tomatoes  so  that  the  skins  can  be 
easily  removed.  Cut  a  slice  from  the  top  of  each,  and  with  a  small 
spoon  remove  the  seeds.  Peel  the  cucumbers  and  cut  them  into  dice, 
cut  celery  into  dice,  season  highly  and  mix  with  one-half  the  dressing. 
Fill  the  tomato  cups  with  this  and  put  another  spoon  of  the  dressing 
on  top.  Sprinkle  a  little  very  finely  chopped  parsley  over  and  serve 
on  a  bed  of  lettuce  leaves. 

JULIA  M.  FARA. 

COMBINATION  SALAD— One  cucumber,  two  tomatoes,  two 
heads  of  lettuce,  one  bunch  of  watercress,  one  bunch  of  green  onions, 
one  bunch  of  radishes.  Wash  all  vegetables,  cut  lettuce  into  shreds, 
make  a  nest  of  it  and  fill  with  vegetables  sliced,  pour  over  it  fancy 
French  dressing. 

BLANCHE  KAMMERER. 

STUFFED  LETTUCE  SALAD— Take  one  small  head  of  lettuce 
for  each  person,  wash  it  and  remove  the  heart  carefully  so  as  not  to 
break  the  head.  Chop  one  stalk  of  celery,  one  cucumber,  one  green 
onion,  mix  well  with  French  dressing  and  stuff  the  heads  of  lettuce 
with  this  mixture. 

MARY  KLENHA. 

CABBAGE  SALAD — Beat  up  two  eggs  with  two  tablespoons  of 
sugar  and  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  a  teaspoon  of  mustard,  a  little 
pepper  and  lastly  half  a  cup  of  vinegar  and  half  a  cup  of  sweet  cream. 
Cook  until  it  thickens,  let  cool  and  pour  over  shredded  cabbage  and 
mix.  Let  it  stand  at  least  half  an  hour,  then  mix  again,  garnish  with 
sliced  hard  boiled  eggs.  Tomatoes  and  lettuce  may  be  made  in  the 
same  way. 

MARY  POCH. 

CABBAGE  SALAD— Two  cups  of  shredded  cabbage,  one-half 
green  pepper  chopped,  and  one-half  pimento  chopped,  salt  and  pepper 
to  taste  and  mix  with  cream  salad  dressing. 

MARY  JORDAN. 

CABBAGE  SALAD— Rub  a  bowl  with  garlic,  into  the  bowl  shred 
one  three-pound  head  of  cabbage,  one  green  pepper  and  tablespoon  of 
parsley  chopped,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  half  cup  of  olive  oil,  half 
cup  of  cider  vinegar,  two  tablespoons  of  sugar,  mixed  together,  cover 
and  put  on  ice  to  chill  before  serving. 

MARIE  PAIDAR. 


PRAGUE   CHAPTER   BOOK   OF   RECIPES  41 

PERFECTION  SALAD— Soak  one  envelope  Knox's  gelatine  in 
one-half  cup  cold  water  for  five  minutes,  add  one-half  cup  mild  vinegar, 
two  cups  boiling  water,  one  teaspoon  salt,  one-half  cup  sugar  and 
juice  of  one  lemon.  Mix  well  and  strain.  When  beginning  to  set 
around  the  edges  of  bowl,  add  one  cup  finely  shredded  cabbage,  two 
cups  celery  cut  in  small  pieces,  and  one-quarter  can  sweet  red  peppers 
(pimentos)  finely  cut.  Turn  into  a  mold,  or  in  separate  glasses,  and 
chill.    Serve  on  lettuce  leaves  and  pour  dressing  over  it. 

DRESSING — Two  eggs  slightly  beaten,  one-half  teaspoon  mus- 
tard mixed  with  a  little  cold  water,  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  one  table- 
spoon sugar,  three  tablespoons  vinegar  (mild)  and  butter  size  of  an 
egg,  melted  before  adding.  Mix  well  as  you  add  each  ingredient. 
Put  over  steaming  water  and  stir  constantly  until  thick  and  smooth. 
When  cold  add  one  bottle  cream  whipped  stiff.  Either  sweet  or  sour 
cream  may  be  used. 

BLANCHE  KAMMERER. 

ASPARAGUS  SALAD— One  bunch  of  asparagus,  two  hard 
boiled  eggs,  salad  dressing,  lettuce.  Cook  asparagus  until  tender  and 
cut  into  one-inch  pieces.  Place  on  lettuce  leaves,  mix  with  dressing 
and  garnish  with  eggs  cut  lengthwise. 

BLANCHE  KAMMERER. 

WATER  LILY  SALAD— Six  hard  cooked  eggs,  one  head  let- 
tuce, one  teaspoon  parsley,  six  stuffed  olives.  Cook  eggs  one-half 
hour.  When  cold  remove  shell  and  while  still  warm  cut  lengthwise 
through  the  white  from  small  end  nearly  to  the  base  into  five  or  six 
strips  or  petals  separate.  Lay  these  petals  in  center  of  crisp  lettuce 
leaves  on  glass  serving  platter,  remove  yolks,  make  smooth  with  a 
little  vinegar,  add  salt  and  form  into  cone-shaped  balls,  place  one  in 
center  of  each  lily,  sprinkle  parsley  cut  fine  over  balls,  place  olives  and 
a  few  radishes  on  small  leaves  to  represent  buds  and  pour  over  with 
French  dressing. 

MARIE  E.  JIRSA. 

BLACK  EYED  SUSAN  SALAD— Arrange  unbroken  whole  or 
half  sections  of  orange  like  petals  on  individual  salad  plates,  fill  centers 
with  chopped  dates  and  walnuts,  serve  with  French  or  Fruit  dressing. 

MARIE  E.  JIRSA. 

PEACH  SALAD — Arrange  halves  of  five  large  peaches,  hollow 
side  up,  on  salad  plates  covered  with  lettuce  or  endive.  Chop  hearts 
of  celery  and  blanched  almonds.  Moisten  with  mayonnaise,  and  fill 
cavity  of  peach.  Cover  with  another  half  peach,  to  resemble  a  whole 
peach.  Cover  with  mayonnaise,  and  over  this  a  rather  soft  cranberry 
jelly.    Sprinkle  with  chopped  parsley. 

MARIE  PAIDAR. 


42  PRAGUE   CHAPTER   BOOK   OF  RECIPES 

CELERY  AND  NUT  SALAD— One  and  one-half  cup  celery, 
diced,  one  and  one-half  cup  pecans,  shelled,  one-half  cup  olives,  pitted, 
one-half  red  or  green  pepper,  chopped,  mayonnaise  dressing,  cress  or 
lettuce.  Mix  the  first  four  ingredients  and  serve  cold  with  mayon- 
naise on  lettuce  leaves  or  in  green  or  red  peppers,  tops  off,  and  scooped 
out.  If  cress  is  used,  wash  and  dry  well.  Arrange  on  outside  edge 
of  platter. 

BERYL  CISLER. 

PINEAPPLE  SALAD— One  can  of  pineapple  sliced,  one-half 
pound  of  English  walnuts,  two  cups  of  celery  diced,  cream  salad  dress- 
ing. Drain  the  pineapple,  halve  the  walnuts,  wash  and  cut  celery  in 
small  pieces.  Just  before  serving  mix  all  together  and  add  dressing. 
Serve  cold  on  lettuce  leaves. 

MARY  JORDAN. 

PINEAPPLE  SALAD — Arrange  thick  round  slices  of  canned 
pineapple  on  lettuce  leaves.  Arrange  thin  strips  of  pimento  on  top  of 
pineapple  to  represent  a  flower ;  fill  center  with  riced  cream  cheese 
sprinkled  with  paprika.  Have  everything  ice  cold  and  serve  with 
dressing  made  of  two  tablespoons  olive  oil,  paprika,  three  teaspoons 
sugar,  one  tablespoon  malt  vinegar  and  two  tablespoons  lemon  juice, 
pinch  of  salt.  Stir  until  well  mixed  and  pour  about  one  tablespoon  of 
dressing  over  each  salad. 

MARIE  PAIDAR. 

BIRTHDAY  SALAD  (Candlesticks)— Place  a  thick  round  slice 
of  canned  pineapple  on  lettuce  leaf  on  each  plate  for  base  of  candle- 
stick, half  of  a  banana  cut  crosswise  and  place  in  center  of  pineapple 
forms  the  candle,  half  of  a  cherry  placed  on  top  of  banana  forms  the 
flame,  make  handle  of  a  slice  of  lemon  rind.  Serve  with  any  fruit  or 
cream  salad  fruit  dressing  (cream  fruit  salad  dressing),  one-third  cup 
pineapple  juice,  one-third  cup  lemon  juice,  one-third  cup  sugar,  one 
teaspoon  cornstarch,  pinch  of  salt,  one  egg,  beat  in  little  cream.  Mix 
dry  ingredients,  add  fruit  juices,  cook  until  smooth  and  pour  into  the 
well  beaten  egg.    Thin  with  a  little  cream. 

MARIE  E.  URSA. 

FRUIT  SALAD — One  cup  of  Malaga  grapes,  seeded,  one  cup  of 
pineapple  cubed,  one  cup  of  chopped  English  walnuts,  one  cup  diced 
tart  apples,  two  large  oranges  diced  and  one-half  cup  of  seeded 
raisins. 

DRESSING — Beat  together  one  teaspoon  of  cream,  two  eggs, 
three  teaspoons  of  lemon  juice.  Cook  in  double  boiler  until  thick, 
cool  and  thin  with  one  cup  of  cream  whipped,  add  a  small  pinch  of 
salt  and  stir  in  fruit. 

MILADA  R.  KOREN. 


PRAGUE    CHAPTER   BOOK   OF   RECIPES  43 

FRUIT  SALAD — Butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  one  teaspoon  of 
flour,  one-half  teaspoon  of  Coleman's  mustard,  juice  of  three  oranges, 
juice  of  two  lemons,  juice  of  one  can  of  sliced  pineapple,  pinch  of  salt, 
scant  cup  of  sugar,  six  eggs.  Cook  in  double  boiler  until  thick,  set 
aside  to  cool,  and  add  one  cup  of  cream  whipped.  Cut  into  small 
pieces  pineapple,  four  apples,  six  oranges,  two  pounds  of  green  grapes, 
one  box  strawberries,  five  bananas.  Mix  with  dressing  and  serve  on 
lettuce  leaves. 

MARIE  PAIDAR. 

OIL  MAYONNAISE  DRESSING— One  teaspoon  mustard,  one 
teaspoon  powdered  sugar,  one-quarter  teaspoon  salt,  one-eighth  tea- 
spoon cayenne  pepper,  yolk  of  one  egg,  one  cup  olive  oil,  one  table- 
spoon vinegar,  one  tablespoon  lemon  juice.  Mix  the  first  four  ingre- 
dients in  a  small  bowl.  Add  the  egg.  Beat  with  Dover  egg  beater. 
Add  oil  gradually,  at  first  drop  by  drop,  and  beat  constantly.  As 
mixture  thickens  thin  with  vinegar  or  lemon  juice.  Add  oil  and  vine- 
gar or  lemon  juice  alternately,  until  all  is  used,  beating  constantly.  If 
oil  is  added  too  rapidly,  dressing  will  have  a  curdled  appearance. 
Should  be  jellylike.    Keep  very  cold. 

NOTE — If  dressing  should  separate,  take  a  yolk  of  egg  and  pour 
mixture  on  it  very  slowly  and  beat  well. 

MARIE  PAIDAR. 

SWEET-SOUR  DRESSING  FOR  LETTUCE— Add  three- 
quarters  cup  sugar  to  two  slightly  beaten  eggs,  one-half  cup  vinegar, 
one-half  cup  water,  tablespoon  butter  and  pinch  of  salt.  Boil  three 
minutes  carefully,  cool,  and  if  too  thick,  thin  with  sweet  or  sour  cream, 
quickly  made  and  very  good. 

GENEVIEVE  ENGELTHALER. 

MAYONNAISE — Three-quarters  cup  of  sugar,  two  tablespoons 
of  flour,  butter  size  of  walnut,  cream  together,  then  add  two  well 
beaten  eggs,  pinch  of  red  pepper,  one  teaspoon  of  salt,  one-half  tea- 
spoon of  dry  mustard,  one  cup  of  vinegar,  one-half  cup  of  water,  beat 
well  and  boil  until  thick.    When  cold,  thin  with  whipped  cream. 

BLANCHE  KAMMERER. 

SALAD  DRESSING — Three  eggs,  six  tablespoons  of  sugar,  half 
a  cup  of  vinegar,  one  teaspoon  of  mustard.  Beat  eggs  light,  mix 
sugar,  vinegar  and  mustard,  boil  all  together  until  thick,  season  with 
pepper  and  salt  to  taste.  When  ready  for  use,  add  six  tablespoons  of 
whipped  cream. 

JULIA  M.  FARA. 

SALAD  DRESSING— One  hard  boiled  egg  chopped  fine,  one 
teaspoon  of  tomato  catsup,  one  teaspoon  of  Worcestershire  sauce,  two 
tablespoons  of  olive  oil,  one-half  teaspoon  of  chopped  green  pepper, 
red  pepper  and  salt  to  taste,  two  tablespoons  of  tarragon  vinegar.  Mix 
and  serve  cold  over  lettuce  or  tomatoes. 

ANNA  KADLEC. 


44  PRAGUE    CHAPTER   BOOK   OF  RECIPES 

BOILED  OIL  MAYONNAISE— Four  whole  eggs,  one-half  cup 
olive  oil,  two  tablespoons  vinegar,  one  tablespoon  lemon  juice,  one  tea- 
spoon sugar,  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  one-sixteenth  teaspoon  cayenne 
pepper,  one-half  teaspoon  dry  mustard.  Mix  dry  ingredients,  add  and 
mix  thoroughly  with  the  eggs,  well  beaten,  and  place  in  double  boiler 
over  boiling  water ;  add  alternately  oil,  vinegar  and  lemon,  stirring 
constantly.  When  ready  to  serve  add  one-half  cup  thick  cream,  sour 
preferred. 

MARIE  PAIDAR. 

BOILED  OIL  MAYONNAISE— Seven  yolks,  two  whole  eggs, 
one  cup  olive  oil,  one  cup  cream,  one-eighth  teaspoon  red  pepper, 
three  tablespoons  vinegar,  juice  of  one  lemon,  one  teaspoon  salt,  one 
teaspoon  mustard.  Beat  all  together  well  and  place  in  double  boiler, 
over  boiling  water  and  cook  until  thick,  stirring  constantly.  Remove 
from  stove.     If  too  thick  when  ready  to  use,  add  a  little  cream. 

MARIE  PAIDAR. 

MIXED  SEASONING — One  teaspoon  salt,  one-quarter  teaspoon 
mustard,  one-eighth  teaspoon  red  and  white  pepper  or  paprika. 

FRENCH  SALAD  DRESSING  (For  Tomatoes  and  Lettuce)— 

One  teaspoon  salt,  one-quarter  teaspoon  mustard,  one-eighth  teaspoon 
pepper,  two  tablespoons  sugar,  one  tablespoon  onion,  chopped  fine, 
four  tablespoons  vinegar,  three-quarters  cup  water.  Mix,  set  aside 
and  keep  very  cold  and  pour  over  salad,  just  before  serving. 

MARIE  PAIDAR. 

SALAD  DRESSING— One-half  tablespoon  salt,  one-quarter  tea- 
spoon white  pepper,  one  and  one-half  tablespoons  vinegar,  one-half 
tablespoon  lemon  juice,  three  or  four  tabelspoons  olive  oil  or  any  poul- 
try fat,  one-half  teaspoon  onion  juice.  Mix  the  ingredients,  and  stir 
until  well  blended.  Serve  ice  cold  over  lettuce,  tomatoes,  etc.,  and  to 
marinate  boiled  meats  and  vegetables. 

BERYL  CISLER, 

VINAIGRETTE  DRESSING— One-quarter  chopped  onion,  two 
branches  parsley,  three  stalks  chives,  or  one-quarter  green  pepper, 
chopped,  three  teaspoons  vinegar,  salt  and  pepper,  four  tablespoons 
oil.     Mix  all  together  but  the  oil ;  put  that  in  last,  and  slowly. 

MARY  JORDAN. 

FANCY  FRENCH  DRESSING— One-half  cup  of  olive  oil,  one 
teaspoon  of  salt,  one  heaping  tablespoon  of  powdered  sugar,  one  green 
pepper  and  one  pimento  chopped,  one  tablespoon  of  finely  chopped 
parsley,  one  tablespoon  of  finely  chopped  Bermuda  onion,  one-fourth 
cup  malt  vinegar,  one-fourth  cup  tarragon  vinegar,  one  clove  garlic. 
Rub  a  bowl  with  garlic  and  mix  ingredients  in  order  given.  Let  stand 
one  hour,  then  stir  vigorously  for  five  minutes.  This  is  especially  fine 
with  lettuce,  endive  or  romaine. 

MARIE  PAIDAR. 


PRAGUE    CHAPTER    BOOK   OF   RECIPES  45 

THOUSAND  ISLAND  DRESSING— Make  a  mayonnaise  dress- 
ing by  adding  one  cup  of  olive  oil  gradually  to  the  beaten  yolk  of  one 
egg.  When  beaten  stiff  add  one-half  teaspoon  of  salt,  one-fourth  tea- 
spoon of  paprika,  celery  salt,  sugar  to  taste,  two  tablespoons  of  vine- 
gar or  lemon  juice,  one-half  teaspoon  of  Worcestershire  sauce.  Add 
to  the  above  one  cup  of  chili  sauce,  one  cup  of  whipped  cream,  two 
tablespoons  of  chopped  olives,  two  tablespoons  of  minced  pimento  or 
stuffed  olives,  one-half  green  pepper  minced  and  a  pinch  of  dry  mus- 
tard. 

MARIE  PAIDAR. 

BOILED  SALAD  DRESSING— One  cup  of  vinegar,  one  cup 
of  water,  two  tablespoons  of  cornstarch,  one  teaspoon  of  salt,  one  salt- 
spoon  of  red  pepper,  one  teaspoon  of  Coleman's  mustard,  one  table- 
spoon of  sugar,  two  egg  yolks,  add  a  spoonful  of  melted  butter  if 
wanted.  Mix  dry  ingredients  with  the  water  and  add  to  yolks  then 
added  to  hot  vinegar,  cook  ten  minutes  in  double  boiler,  add  stiffly 
beaten  whites  of  eggs  while  hot.  If  left  over  and  should  become  too 
thick,  thin  it  with  sour  cream. 

JULIA  M.  FARA. 

CREAM  SALAD  DRESSING— Five  yolks  beaten,  one-half  cup 
of  cream,  one-half  cup  of  vinegar,  one-half  cup  of  water,  one-eighth 
teaspoon  of  cayenne  pepper,  one  and  one-half  teaspoons  of  salt,  one 
teaspoon  of  mustard,  one  tablespoon  of  flour,  two  tablespoons  of 
sugar.  Beat  the  yolks  well  in  a  cup,  fill  up  the  cup  with  cream.  Mix 
the  dry  ingredients,  wet  with  a  little  of  the  water,  add  to  the  yolks 
and  cream.  Place  in  double  boiler  and  let  cook  until  thick  and  smooth, 
stirring  constantly,  add  vinegar  and  rest  of  water. 

MARIE  E.  TUREK. 

CHEESE  CRACKERS— One-half  pound  American  cheese, 
grated,  yolk  of  one  egg,  dash  of  Coleman's  mustard,  dash  paprika, 
dash  salt,  little  cream  to  thin.  Spread  over  Saratoga  crackers  and  put 
into  oven  to  brown.    They  are  very  nice  with  salads. 

ROSE  WASKA. 


46  PRAGUE   CHAPTER   BOOK   OF  RECIPES 


EGGS,  OMELETTES  AND  PANCAKES 

BAKED  EGGS — Break  each  egg  into  a  buttered  cup  cake  tin. 
Sprinkle  with  rolled  crackers,  salt,  pepper  and  dots  of  butter.  Bake 
in  moderate  oven  fifteen  minutes. 

MARIE  E.  TUREK. 

DEVILED  EGGS — Six  hard  boiled  eggs,  one-fourth  teaspoon 
salt,  one-half  teaspoon  mustard,  one  teaspoon  vinegar,  one  teaspoon 
butter,  pinch  sugar,  and  one  teaspoon  cream.  Take  eggs  when  cold, 
remove  shells,  and  cut  each  in  two  lengthwise.  Remove  yolks  and  rub 
smooth  and  mix  in  other  ingredients.  Fill  the  white  of  egg  with  this 
mixture  and  sprinkle  with  paprika.    Serve  on  a  bed  of  lettuce  leaves. 

MARIE  PAIDAR. 

SCOTCH  EGGS — One  cup  of  lean  ham,  chopped  fine,  six  hard 
boiled  eggs,  two-thirds  cup  stale  bread  crumbs,  one-third  cup  milk, 
one-half  teaspoon  mustard,  one  raw  egg,  pepper  to  taste.  Cook  bread 
crumbs  in  the  milk  and  rub  to  a  smoth  paste.  Mix  it  with  the  ham, 
add  mustard,  cayenne  and  the  raw  egg.  Mix  well.  Remove  the  shells 
from  the  eggs  and  cover  with  the  mixture.  Fry  in  hot  fat  two  minutes, 
drain  and  serve  hot  or  cold.  Cut  in  halves  lengthwise  and  arrange 
each  half  on  a  bed  of  fine  parsley. 

JULIA  M.  FARA. 

EGGS  AU  GRATIN — Three  hard  boiled  eggs,  one  large  table- 
spoon butter,  one  small  onion  chopped  fine,  teaspoon  chopped  parsley, 
quarter  cup  grated  American  cheese,  one  cup  white  sauce,  salt  and 
pepper  to  season.  Cut  eggs  in  halves  crosswise.  Remove  yolks  and 
stand  cups  thus  formed  in  ramekins  or  shallow  baking  dish.  Cream 
butter  and  yolks  well,  add  onion,  parsley  seasoning,  form  into  balls, 
fill  egg  cups,  pour  over  these  the  white  sauce,  sprinkle  with  cheese 
and  brown  in  oven. 

BLANCHE  KAMMERER. 

CREAMY  OMELETTE — Beat  four  eggs  slightly,  just  enough  to 
blend  yolks  and  whites,  add  four  tablespoons  milk,  one-half  teaspoon 
salt,  pinch  of  pepper.  Put  one  teaspoon  butter  in  hot  spider,  when 
melted  add  mixture  and  as  it  cooks  draw  edges  toward  center  with 
knife  until  whole  is  set,  fold  over  and  turn  out  on  hot  platter. 

BLANCHE  KAMMERER. 

HAM  OMELETTES— Make  a  pancake  batter  of  six  eggs  beaten 
separately,  one-half  cup  milk,  one-half  cup  flour,  and  a  pinch  of  salt. 
Beat  with  egg  beater  until  smooth.  Fry  in  plenty  of  hot  lard.  Spread 
pancakes  with  one-half  pound  chopped  boiled  ham  mixed  with  three 
soft  boiled  eggs.  Roll  each  like  jelly  roll,  put  in  buttered  pan,  brush 
with  melted  butter,  and  bake  in  moderate  oven  ten  minutes.  Serve 
hot. 

FRANCES  KOLAR. 


PRAGUE   CHAPTER   BOOK   OF   RECIPES  47 

PUFF  OMELETTE— Beat  yolks  of  six  eggs  until  very  light, 
then  add  one  tablespoon  flour  mixed  in  one  cup  sweet  milk,  salt  and 
pepper  to  taste,  then  add  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  eggs.  Melt  a 
tablespoon  of  butter  in  baking  pan,  pour  in  mixture  and  bake  a  deli- 
cate brown,  roll  up,  turn  on  hot  platter  and  serve  at  once. 

BLANCHE  KAMMERER. 

PLAIN  EGG  FRITTERS— Beat  yolks  of  three  eggs  until  light. 
Add  cup  milk,  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  flour  to  make  a  rather  stiff  bat- 
ter and  last  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  three  eggs,  which  take  the 
place  of  baking  powder.  Drop  by  tablespoons  in  hot  deep  lard  as 
for  doughnuts.    Serve  hot  with  syrup  or  jelly. 

GENEVIEVE  ENGELTHALER. 

PINEAPPLE  FRITTERS— Two  yolks  well  beaten,  add  one  cup 
milk,  one  cup  flour,  quarter  teaspoon  salt,  one  tablespoon  melted  but- 
ter, mix  well,  and  last  add  whites  of  eggs  well  beaten.  Have  pineapple 
sliced  thin  and  sprinkled  with  sugar,  dip  in  batter  and  fry  in  deep  hot 
lard.  These  make  a  good  dessert.  Apples,  peeled,  cored  and  sliced, 
may  be  used  instead  of  pineapple. 

GENEVIEVE  ENGELTHALER. 

BAKING  POWDER  PANCAKES— Three  cups  milk,  one  tgg, 
one  teaspoon  salt,  three  teaspoons  baking  powder,  two  and  one-half 
cups  flour.    Mix  in  order  given  and  fry  on  hot  griddle. 

KATE  MLNARIK. 

BOHEMIAN  PANCAKES— Two  eggs  well  beaten,  one  table- 
spoon of  sugar,  one  cup  of  lukewarm  milk,  one  and  one-fourth  cups 
of  flour,  one-half  teaspoon  of  salt,  one  cake  yeast,  dissolved  in  a  little 
lukewarm  milk.  Sift  flour,  sugar  and  salt  in  bowl,  add  well  beaten 
eggs,  the  milk,  and  mix  well,  then  add  the  dissolved  yeast.  Beat  thor- 
oughly and  set  in  a  warm  place  to  raise  until  light.  Lift  the  dough  by 
spoonfuls  carefully  from  top  of  mixture  so  as  not  to  disturb  the 
remainder.  Spread  on  well  greased  griddle  with  back  of  spoon.  Let 
bake  slowly. 

BLANCHE  KAMMERER. 

BAKED  PANCAKE — Five  eggs,  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  one-half 
cup  milk,  one-half  cup  flour,  two  tablespoons  lard.  Beat  eggs  until 
very  light  with  Dover  beater,  add  salt  and  flour,  and  then  the  milk, 
beating  all  the  time.  Spread  bottom  and  sides  of  cold  frying  pan  with 
the  lard.  Pour  in  the  egg  batter.  Place  in  hot  oven  and  bake  twenty 
to  twenty-five  minutes.  It  should  puff  up  at  the  sides  and  be  crisp 
and  brown.  Place  on  hot  platter  and  sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar 
and  serve  hot. 

MARIE  PAIDAR. 

BREAD  PANCAKES— One  and  one-quarter  cups  grated  bread 
crumbs,  two  cups  sour  milk,  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  one  teaspoon 
sugar,  one  and  one-half  cups  flour  sifted  with  teaspoon  soda,  three 
yolks.    Mix  well  together  and  add  three  beaten  whites. 

MARIE  PAIDAR. 


48  PRAGUE    CHAPTER   BOOK    OF  RECIPES 


BUCKWHEAT  PANCAKES— Two  cups  lukewarm  milk,  one 
cup  lukewarm  water,  two  tablespoons  brown  sugar,  one  tablespoon 
salt,  two  cups  buckwheat  flour,  one  and  one-half  cups  white  flour,  one- 
third  cake  yeast.  Dissolve  yeast  and  sugar  in  the  liquid.  Add  flour  and 
salt.  Beat  until  smooth.  Cover  and  keep  in  a  cool  place  over  night. 
Bake  on  hot  griddle.    Serve  with  butter  or  syrup. 

KATE  MLNARIK. 

CORN  PANCAKES — One  can  of  corn,  one  egg  beaten,  one  cup 
of  milk,  one  tablespoon  of  sugar,  one  teaspoon  of  salt,  butter  the  size 
of  an  egg,  flour  to  make  batter  like  for  pancakes.    Fry  in  hot  lard. 

MARY  WESLEY. 

RAW  POTATO  PANCAKES— Six  large  potatoes  grated,  three 
well  beaten  eggs,  salt,  twelve  crackers  rolled  fine.  Beat  and  bake  on 
well  greased  spider.    Spread  with  back  of  spoon  so  cakes  will  be  thin. 

MARIE  PAIDAR. 

POTATO  PANCAKES— Grate  four  large  raw  potatoes,  strain 
through  cheesecloth.  Use  one-half  as  much  milk  as  there  was  potato 
water.  Mix  potatoes,  milk,  half  teaspoon  salt,  two  yolks  well  beaten, 
and  flour  enough  to  make  stiff  batter,  and  last  fold  in  the  beaten 
whites  of  two  eggs.  Fry  until  nicely  browned  on  both  sides  in  plenty 
of  hot  lard.    The  potato  water  is  not  used. 

GENEVIEVE  ENGELTHALER. 


PRAGUE    CHAPTER    BOOK    OF   RECIPES  49 


DUMPLINGS 


DUMPLINGS — Four  eggs  beaten  until  light,  one  teaspoon  of 
salt,  one  cup  of  cream,  enough  flour  to  make  a  stiff  dough.  Beat  well, 
drop  by  tablespoons  into  boiling  water.  Cover  and  cook  about  twenty 
minutes. 

MARIE  PAIDAR. 

DUMPLINGS — Two  and  one-half  cups  flour,  two  level  teaspoons 
baking  powder,  one  or  two  eggs,  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  one  cup  milk. 
Sift  flour,  baking  powder  and  salt.  Beat  eggs,  add  to  milk,  then  add 
to  the  flour  and  beat  well.  Drop  by  tablespoons  into  boiling  salted 
water,  cover  tightly  and  boil  ten  minutes. 

GENEVIEVE  ENGELTHALER. 

RAISED  DUMPLINGS— One  cup  of  milk,  two  eggs,  one  tea- 
spoon of  salt,  one-half  cake  of  yeast,  dissolved  in  a  little  lukewarm 
water,  enough  flour  to  make  stiff  dough.  Beat  well.  Cover  and  let 
raise  in  warm  place  about  one  hour.  Form  into  balls,  place  on  floured 
board  and  let  raise  until  light.  Drop  into  boiling  water,  cover  and 
boil  rapidlv  until  done.    Test  with  straw. 

MARIE  E.  TUREK. 

FILLED  DUMPLINGS— Scald  one  pint  of  milk,  add  enough 
flour  to  make  stiff  and  cook  until  smooth,  take  from  fire,  add  one  table- 
spoon of  butter  and  one  teaspoon  of  salt,  set  aside  to  cool,  then  add 
three  yolks  and  one  whole  Qgg  beaten  and  enough  flour  to  make  a 
stiff  dough,  place  on  floured  board,  roll  out  about  three-fourths  of  an 
inch  thick,  cut  in  squares  about  four  inches  large,  place  a  peach  or 
blue  blum  in  center  of  each  square,  pinch  edges  together  so  that  the 
fruit  is  covered  and  drop  into  boiling  water,  cover  and  boil  twenty 
minutes.  Take  dumplings  from  water,  place  on  large  platter,  take  two 
forks  and  open  up  dumplings,  sprinkle  each  with  sugar  and  pour  over 
them  butter  slightly  browned. 

MARIE  PAIDAR. 

POTATO  DUMPLINGS— Four  large,  cold  boiled  potatoes  riced, 
three  eggs  beaten,  one  teaspoon  of  salt  one-half  cup  of  milk,  one-half 
cup  of  farina,  flour  enough  to  make  quite  stiff.  Toss  on  floured  board, 
shape  into  balls,  drop  into  boiling  water,  cover  and  boil  about  twenty 
minutes. 

ANNA  KADLEC. 

BOILED  POTATO  DUMPLINGS— Seven  large  potatoes  boiled 
and  mashed  well,  then  add  two  eggs,  one-half  teaspoon  salt  and  mix 
together  thoroughly.  Sift  one  pound  of  flour  on  board,  place  potato 
mixture  in  it  and  work  well  about  ten  minutes,  adding  more  flour  if 
necessary  to  make  a  stiff  dough.  Shape  into  dumplings,  drop  into 
boiling  salted  water  and  boil  twenty  minutes. 

JENNIE  RATAJIK. 


50  PRAGUE    CHAPTER   BOOK   OF   RECIPES 


LIVER  DUMPLINGS — One  pound  of  calf's  liver,  one  quart  of 
wheat  bread  diced,  soaked  in  water  and  pressed  dry,  two  tablespoons 
of  flour,  six  eggs,  one  teaspoon  of  parsley  chopped,  one  teaspoon  of 
salt,  one-eighth  teaspoon  of  pepper,  one-eighth  teaspoon  of  nutmeg, 
two  tablespoons  of  butter,  one  onion  cut  fine.  Skin  and  chop  liver 
very  fine,  heat  the  butter  in  a  spider,  add  the  onions,  brown  a  little, 
then  add  liver  and  rest  of  ingredients.  Mix  well,  form  into  balls  size 
of  a  walnut,  drop  in  boiling  salted  water  and  let  simmer  fifteen  min- 
utes.   Drain  and  serve  hot  with  meat  gravy. 

JULIA  M.  FARA. 

POTATO  DUMPLINGS — Boil  and  mash  well  six  large  potatoes. 
When  cool  add  small  half  cup  farina,  mix  well,  allow  to  stand  a  little 
while,  add  three  well  beaten  eggs,  teaspoon  salt  and  enough  flour  to 
form  a  stiff  dough.  Turn  out  on  floured  board,  knead  and  form  long 
roll,  cut  in  pieces,  shape  into  dumplings,  drop  in  boiling  salted  water, 
boil  twenty  minutes.  Cut  in  halves  with  a  string,  sprinkle  with  bread 
crumbs  fried  in  a  little  butter. 

BLANCHE  KAMMERER. 

RAW  POTATO  DUMPLINGS— Grate  three  large  potatoes  and 
drain  off  water  and  add  two  well  beaten  eggs.  Sift  three  cups  flour 
with  one  teaspoon  baking  powder,  one  teaspoon  salt,  add  to  above 
mixture  and  enough  flour  to  make  a  stiff  dough.  Form  into  dumplings 
and  drop  into  salted  boiling  water.  Boil  about  fifteen  to  twenty 
minutes. 

MARIE  E.  TUREK. 


PRAGUE   CHAPTER   BOOK   OF   RECIPES  51 

BREADS,  COFFEE  CAKES,  MUFFINS 
AND  ROLLS 

BOSTON  BROWN  BREAD— Cream  a  scant  half  cup  of  sugar 
with  tablespoon  of  shortening,  add  one-half  cup  of  molasses,  pinch  of 
salt,  mix,  then  add  one  and  one-half  cups  of  sour  milk,  two  cups  of 
graham  flour  and  one  cup  of  wheat  flour  in  which  one  teaspoon  of 
soda  has  been  sifted ;  lastly,  half  pound  of  raisins.  Bake  at  least  one 
hour  in  a  slow  oven. 

BLANCHE  KAMMERER. 

WHITE  BREAD— One  pint  of  milk  scalded,  to  which  add  one 
level  tablespoon  of  salt,  two  of  sugar  and  two  tablespoons  of  shorten- 
ing; set  aside  until  lukewarm,  then  add  one  pint  of  warm  water  and 
one  yeast  cake  dissolved  in  half  cup  of  water.  Put  flour  in  bread  pan, 
add  liquid,  make  a  soft  sponge  and  set  in  warm  place  to  raise.  When 
full  of  bubbles,  add  enough  flour  to  make  stiff  dough,  turn  out  on 
floured  board  and  knead  well.  Let  raise  until  double  its  bulk,  shape  in 
loaves  and  let  raise  again  until  light  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven  one 
hour. 

BLANCHE  KAMMERER. 

BOHEMIAN  RYE  BREAD— Raise  one  yeast  cake  in  half  cup 
of  milk  and  a  little  sugar.  Sift  together  two  pounds  of  rye  flour  and 
one  pound  of  wheat  flour,  or  if  rye  flour  is  dark  use  half  of  each.  Heat 
one  pint  of  milk  and  one  of  water,  add  raised  yeast  and  enough  flour 
to  make  sponge.  Set  in  warm  place  to  raise  until  full  of  bubbles. 
Then  add  one  tablespoon  of  salt,  a  little  caraway  seed  and  enough 
flour  to  make  a  stiff  dough.  Turn  out  on  floured  board,  knead  well, 
set  aside  in  warm  place  to  raise,  form  into  loaves  or  one  big  round 
loaf,  let  raise  again,  brush  with  beaten  egg  and  bake  small  loaves  one 
hour  and  large  loaf  one  and  one-quarter  hours. 

BLANCHE  KAMMERER. 

RYE  BREAD — Make  a  sponge  of  one  quart  lukewarm  water, 
one  quart  rye  flour,  and  one-fourth  cake  yeast,  dissolved  in  a  little 
warm  water.  Set  to  rise  over  night.  In  the  morning  stir  in  quickly 
one  cup  hot  scalded  milk,  then  add  one  teaspoon  caraway  seed,  one 
tablespoon  salt,  three  cups  wheat  flour,  and  enough  rye  flour  to 
make  a  stiff  dough.  Let  raise  until  light.  Turn  out  on  floured  board, 
knead  well  and  form  into  a  large  round  loaf.  Let  raise  again  about 
one-half  hour,  and  bake  one  hour  and  fifteen  minutes. 

MARIE  E.  TUREK. 

NUT  BREAD — Beat  two  eggs,  add  one  cup  of  sugar,  beat  again, 
then  add  one  cup  of  milk,  one  level  teaspoon  of  salt,  four  level  tea- 
spoons of  baking  powder  sifted  with  four  cups  of  flour,  and  one  cup 
of  nut  meats  chopped.  Mix  thoroughly,  put  in  well  buttered  tin,  let 
stand  twenty  minutes  and  bake  forty-five  minutes  in  a  slow  oven. 

JOSEPHINE  G.  KLEISNER. 


52  PRAGUE   CHAPTER   BOOK   OF  RECIPES 


NEW  ENGLAND  NUT  BREAD— One-half  cup  sugar,  one  and 
one-half  cups  milk,  six  level  teaspoons  baking  powder,  four  level  cups 
flour,  one  level  dessert  spoon  salt,  one  cup  chopped  walnut  meats. 
Mix  ingredients  and  allow  to  stand  twenty  minutes.  Bake  in  mod- 
erate oven  about  three-fourths  of  an  hour.  This  makes  one  medium 
sized  loaf. 

JULIA  M.  FARA. 

NUT  BREAD — Two  cups  of  brown  sugar,  two  eggs,  two  cups  of 
sweet  milk,  four  cups  of  flour,  four  teaspoons  baking  powder,  one 
cup  of  nuts.  Beat  sugar  and  eggs,  add  milk,  flour  sifted  with  baking 
powder,  nuts  broken  and  pinch  of  salt.  Leave  stand  twenty  minutes 
before  baking.     Bake  about  one  hour. 

JULIA  M.  FARA. 

GRAHAM  NUT  BREAD— Three  eggs,  one-half  cup  of  white  or 
brown  sugar,  one  cup  molasses,  three  cups  of  sweet  milk,  one  and 
one-half  teaspoons  of  soda,  one  cup  of  white  flour,  little  salt,  one-half 
pound  of  walnuts  broken.  Stir  thick  with  graham  flour.  Bake  thirty 
minutes  in  moderate  oven. 

MARIE  PAIDAR. 

BROWN  NUT  BREAD— One  and  one-half  cups  graham  flour, 
three-quarters  cup  wheat  flour,  one  and  one-half  cups  sour  milk,  one- 
third  cup  New  Orleans  molasses,  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  one  and  one- 
half  teaspoon  soda,  one-half  cup  broken  walnuts.  Mix  dry  ingredients, 
add  milk  to  molasses  and  stir  well  to  a  smooth  batter,  nut  meats  last. 
Place  in  greased  bread  pan  and  bake  in  moderately  slow  oven  one 
hour. 

MARIE  PAIDAR. 

SOFT  GRAHAM  BREAD— Three  cups  of  graham  flour,  one  cup 
of  white  flour,  one  teaspoon  of  salt,  one-half  cup  of  molasses,  or  one- 
fourth  cup  of  sugar,  one  cake  of  yeast,  one  and  one-half  cups  of  warm 
water,  two  tablespoons  of  butter.  Dissolve  the  yeast  with  a  little  of 
the  lukewarm  water,  mix  with  other  ingredients  and  beat  well.  Cover 
and  set  in  warm  place.  When  the  dough  is  light  beat  again  and  pour 
into  bread  pans,  filling  them  half  full.  When  light  bake  in  moderate 
oven. 

JULIA  M.  FARA. 

CURRANT  BREAD — Dissolve  a  cake  of  compressed  yeast  and 
a  tablespoon  of  sugar  in  a  cup  of  lukewarm  water  and  one  cup  of  milk 
that  has  been  scalded  and  cooled.  Cream  three-fourths  cup  of  sugar 
with  four  tablespoons  of  butter  and  add  with  two  cups  of  flour  to  the 
liquid.  Beat  well.  Cover  and  put  in  warm  place  to  raise  for  about 
one  and  one-half  hours.  Add  one  cup  of  floured  raisins  and  four  cups 
of  flour  and  one  teaspoon  of  salt,  knead  lightly  and  place  in  a  greased 
bowl  to  raise  again  for  about  an  hour.  Mold  into  loaves,  and  put  into 
greased  pans  and  let  raise  one  hour.  Beat  an  egg  with  a  little  warm 
water.     Brush  over  loaves.     Bake  three-fourths  of  an  hour. 

CARRIE  GLASS. 


PRAGUE   CHAPTER   BOOK   OF  RECIPES  53 

CORN  BREAD — Two  cups  of  corn  meal,  one  cup  of  flour,  one 
and  one-fourth  teaspoons  of  soda,  one-half  teaspoon  of  salt,  one-fourth 
cup  of  sugar,  one  egg,  one-half  cup  of  sour  cream,  two  cups  of  sour 
milk.  Mix  the  dry  ingredients,  add  the  egg  beaten  lightly  and  the  sour 
cream  and  milk.  Beat  well  and  bake  in  shallow  pans  in  a  hot  oven 
one-half  hour. 

JULIA  M.  FARA. 

TWIST  CAKE  or  HOUSKA — Dissolve  one-half  cup  of  sugar 
in  one-half  cup  of  warm  cream,  add  two  cakes  compressed  yeast  crum- 
bled into  pieces  and  set  aside  to  raise.  Rub  six  ounces  of  sweet  butter 
into  three  pounds  of  flour,  add  six  eggs  well  beaten,  the  raised  yeast, 
level  teaspoon  of  salt,  the  grated  rind  of  one  lemon  and  enough  cream 
to  make  a  stiff  dough.  Work  out  well,  place  on  floured  board  imme- 
diately, add  twelve  ounces  of  large  seeded  raisins  or  sultana  raisins, 
one-half  pound  of  almonds  blanched  and  chopped  fine,  and  knead 
until  raisins  and  almonds  are  worked  in  dough.  Then  divide  into  two 
parts,  as  this  makes  two  twists.  To  form  twist  divide  dough  into 
four  parts  and  roll  each  into  a  long  round  piece,  braid  three  together 
and  placed  in  greased  pan,  then  cut  fourth  piece  in  two,  roll  out  each 
part  and  twist  together,  place  on  braided  dough,  cover  with  towel 
and  set  in  warm  place  to  raise  until  double  its  bulk — about  two  hours. 
Brush  with  beaten  egg  and  bake  in  moderate  oven  one  hour. 

MILADA  R.  KOREN. 

BRIOCHE — Raise  one-half  yeast  cake  in  one-quarter  cup  of 
warm  milk  and  teaspoon  of  sugar.  When  light  add  one-half  cup  of 
flour,  mix  well,  cover  and  set  aside  to  raise.  Sift  together  one  and 
one-half  cups  of  flour,  half  teaspoon  of  salt,  teaspoon  of  sugar,  large 
pinch  of  mace,  add  raised  sponge,  two  eggs  and  one-half  cup  of  butter 
melted,  mix  well  and  beat  in  two  more  eggs,  one  at  a  time,  until  dough 
is  smooth.  Cover,  set  in  warm  place  to  raise ;  when  light,  beat  again, 
cover  and  put  in  ice  box  over  night.  Roll  out  into  two  long  thin  rolls, 
twist  together,  place  in  large  round  pan  close  to  edge,  let  raise,  brush 
with  beaten  egg,  sprinkle  with  chopped  almonds  and  bake  in  moderate 
oven  twenty  to  twenty-five  minutes.  While  still  warm,  cover  with 
plain  frosting. 

BLANCHE  KAMMERER. 

CROWN  CAKE  or  BABOVKA— Raise  one  yeast  cake  in  half 
glass  of  lukewarm  milk  and  a  little  sugar,  then  add  flour  to  make  a 
sponge.  Let  raise  again.  Cream  one-quarter  pound  of  butter,  one- 
quarter  pound  of  sugar  and  four  yolks  for  fifteen  minutes,  add  yeast, 
ten  ounces  of  sifted  flour,  little  salt,  teaspoon  of  vanilla,  then  the  four 
egg  whites  beaten  and  quarter  pound  almonds  blanched  and  chopped. 
Mix  well,  turn  into  tube  pan.  The  pan  should  be  well  greased  and 
sprinkled  with  chopped  almonds.  Let  raise  until  double  its  bulk  and 
bake  in  moderate  oven  forty-five  minutes. 

JOSEPHINE  G.  KLEISNER. 


54  PRAGUE    CHAPTER    BOOK    OF   RECIPES 


FANCY  CROWN  CAKE,  "BABOVKA"— Raise  one  and  one- 
half  cakes  of  yeast  in  one  cup  of  cream  and  teaspoon  of  sugar.  Cream 
one-half  pound  butter  with  three-fourths  cup  of  sugar,  add  six  well 
beaten  eggs,  the  raised  yeast,  level  teaspoon  of  salt,  rind  of  one  lemon, 
one  cup  of  blanched  chopped  almonds  and  enough  flour  to  make  dough 
soft  enough  to  pour  in  your  cake  form  with  tube.  Set  in  warm  place 
to  raise  until  light  and  bake  about  one  hour. 

MILADA  R.  KOREN. 

RAISED  CAKE — Cream  two-thirds  cup  of  butter  with  two  cups 
of  sugar,  two  cups  of  raised  dough,  three  well  beaten  yolks,  one  tea- 
spoon of  soda  dissolved  in  two  tablespoons  of  milk,  half  grated  nut- 
meg, one  tablespoon  of  cinnamon,  one  teaspoon  of  cloves.  Mix  well 
together,  then  fold  in  beaten  whites  of  eggs  and  add  one  cup  of  raisins, 
beat  hard  for  several  minutes,  put  in  buttered  pans,  let  raise  thirty 
minutes  and  bake  in  moderate  oven  one  hour. 

ANNA  BROZ. 

STRUDEL — Three-fourths  cup  of  lukewarm  water,  butter  size 
of  an  egg,  one  egg,  one  teaspoon  of  sugar,  one-half  teaspoon  of  salt, 
four  cups  of  sifted  flour.  Mix  all  together,  add  the  flour  gradually. 
Toss  on  floured  board,  knead  thoroughly  and  cover  with  a  warm 
bowl  for  one-half  hour.  Lay  the  dough  in  the  center  of  a  well  floured 
tablecloth  on  table.  Roll  out  a  little,  brush  well  with  some  melted 
butter,  and  with  hands  under  dough,  palms  down,  pull  and  stretch 
the  dough  gently,  until  it  is  as  large  as  table  and  thin  as  paper,  and 
do  not  tear.  Brush  with  melted  butter.  Spread  with  one-half  peck 
of  apples  cut  in  thin  slices.  Sprinkle  over  this  three  cups  of  sugar 
and  one  tablespoon  of  cinnamon,  one-half  pound  of  seeded  raisins, 
one-fourth  pound  chopped  almonds,  one  and  one-half  cups  of  bread 
crumbs  fried  to  a  light  brown  in  butter.  Roll  up  like  you  would  jelly 
roll  and  bake  in  slow  oven  one  hour. 

ANNA  ROUBIK. 

DUTCH  APPLE  CAKE— Sift  two  cups  of  flour  and  four  level 
teaspoons  of  baking  powder.  Rub  well  into  this  one-fourth  cup  of 
butter,  then  add  one  egg  beaten,  scant  cup  of  milk,  one  teaspoon  of 
salt,  four  tablespoons  of  sugar.  Mix  all  until  smooth  and  put  into  a 
buttered  pan,  spread  dough  so  that  it  would  be  about  one-half  inch 
thick.  Select  large  tart  apples,  peel,  core  and  cut  in  eighths.  Put  the 
apples  in  rows,  sharp  edges  down,  until  cake  is  well  covered.  Sprinkle 
with  sugar  and  cinnamon  and  dot  with  butter  and  bake  in  moderate 
oven.  Sauce  for  same :  Four  cups  of  hot  water,  one  cup  of  sugar, 
boil  five  minutes,  add  two  level  tablespoons  of  cornstarch,  the  juice 
and  rind  of  one  lemon  and  two  teaspoons  of  butter.  Cook  until 
smooth. 

MILADA  R.  KOREN. 


PRAGUE    CHAPTER   BOOK   OF   RECIPES  55 

QUICK  APPLE  CAKE — Two  cups  flour,  two  teaspoons  baking 
powder,  one  teaspoon  salt,  one-half  cup  sugar,  one-quarter  cup  melted 
butter,  one  cup  milk,  one  egg.  Sift  dry  ingredients  together  five  times, 
add  other  ingredients  and  stir  into  a  smooth  dough.  Spread  on  but- 
tered pan,  pare  apples,  put  on  coffee  cake  closely  together,  sprinkle 
with  sugar  and  cinnamon,  bake  in  moderate  oven. 

MAY  FRIED L. 

CRUMB  COFFEE  CAKE— Two  and  one-half  cups  of  flour,  one 
and  one-third  cups  of  powdered  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  butter  and  lard 
mixed,  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Rub  all  together  as  for  pie  crust.  Take 
out  small  cup  of  crumbs  and  set  aside.  To  the  balance  add  two  tea- 
spoons of  baking  powder  and  one-half  grated  nutmeg.  Stir,  then  add 
two  eggs  beaten  and  one  cup  of  milk.  Beat  well.  Pour  into  two  cake 
tins  and  sprinkle  with  crumbs  which  were  set  aside  and  bake  in  quick 
oven. 

MILADA  R.  KOREN. 

COFFEE  CAKE — Three  cups  flour,  one  and  one-half  cups  sugar, 
four  eggs,  beaten,  and  three-quarters  cup  butter.  Mix  sugar  and  flour 
and  work  in  the  butter,  reserve  one  cup  of  these  butter  crumbs  for  the 
top  of  coffee  cakes.  To  the  remainder  add  two  teaspoons  baking  pow- 
der, pinch  salt,  one  cup  milk  and  mix  thoroughly.  Put  dough  in  two 
pans,  cover  with  butter  crumbs  and  bake. 

LENA  KRACHT. 

BLITZ-KUCHEN— Beat  two  eggs,  add  three  tablespoons  of 
sugar,  one  tablespoon  of  butter  melted,  a  level  teaspoon  of  salt,  a  little 
lemon  rind  or  mace,  and  mix  thoroughly.  Then  add  one  cup  of  milk 
and  two  heaping  cups  of  flour  sifted  with  one  and  one-half  teaspoons 
of  baking  powder.  Put  in  greased  coffee  cake  pan,  sprinkle  with 
brown  sugar,  bits  of  butter  and  walnuts  chopped  fine.  Bake  about 
forty-five  minutes. 

BLANCHE  KAMMERER. 

ROHLICKY  OR  CRESCENT  ROLLS— Make  a  sponge  of  one- 
half  cup  lukewarm  milk,  two  cakes  yeast,  a  little  sugar  and  flour.  Sift 
into  bowl  one  quart  flour,  one-half  cup  sugar,  one  teaspoon  salt, 
one-quarter  teaspoon  mace.  Into  this  work  one-half  pound  butter 
with  finger  tips,  add  four  yolks  well  beaten,  one  and  one-half  cups 
lukewarm  milk,  the  raised  sponge,  and  beat  well.  Add  more  flour  if 
necessary  to  make  a  stiff  dough.  Cover  and  let  raise  until  light. 
Shape  a  teaspoon  of  dough  into  round  balls  and  place  on  floured 
board.  Let  raise  a  few  minutes.  Roll  each  ball  out  into  a  triangular 
piece,  roll  over  and  over  from  the  longest  side  to  the  opposite  corner 
and  shape  into  crescents.  Place  on  greased  tins.  Brush  with  beaten 
egg  and  sprinkle  with  poppy  seed.  Let  raise  and  bake  in  moderate 
oven  about  twenty  to  twenty-five  minutes. 

MARIE  PAIDAR. 


56  PRAGUE   CHAPTER   BOOK   OF   RECIPES 

JOHNNY  CAKE — Quarter  cup  of  sugar,  one  tablespoon  of 
melted  butter,  one  egg,  one-half  teaspoon  of  salt,  one  cup  of  milk, 
two  teaspoons  of  baking  powder  sifted  with  one  cup  of  flour  and  one- 
half  cup  yellow  cornmeal.  Mix  thoroughly,  bake  in  coffee  cake  pan 
twenty  minutes.    Serve  hot  with  butter  or  maple  syrup. 

BLANCHE  KAMMERER. 

PARKER  HOUSE  ROLLS— One  quart  of  flour  in  bowl,  make  a 
hollow  in  center,  add  one  teaspoon  of  salt,  one  tablespoon  of  sugar, 
two  large  tablespoons  of  butter,  and  pour  over  one  pint  of  boiling 
milk.  Let  stand  until  lukewarm,  then  add  one  yeast  cake  dissolved 
in  a  little  warm  water,  stir  in  enough  flour  to  make  a  sponge,  leaving 
shell  of  flour  around,  cover  and  put  in  warm  place  to  raise.  When 
full  of  bubbles  mix  stiff,  adding  more  flour.  Let  raise,  cut  down  with 
a  knife,  let  raise  again,  then  pat  or  roll  out  one-half  inch  thick,  brush 
with  melted  butter,  cut  with  biscuit  cutter,  crease  with  blunt  edge  of 
knife,  fold  over  cover  with  cloth  and  let  raise  until  light.  Brush  with 
melted  butter  or  egg  and  bake  twenty  minutes. 

BLANCHE  KAMMERER. 

HOT  BISCUITS — Four  cups  of  flour  sifted  with  four  level  tea- 
spoons of  baking  powder,  two  tablespoons  of  sugar,  one-half  teaspoon 
of  salt.  Rub  well  into  this  one-fourth  cup  of  butter  and  one-fourth 
cup  of  lard.  Then  add  one  pint  of  milk.  Toss  on  floured  board,  pat 
out  one  inch  thick  and  cut  with  biscuit  cutter.  Brush  with  melted 
butter  or  cream  and  bake  in  hot  oven. 

EMILIE  SADILEK. 

MOUNTAIN  MUFFINS— One-half  cup  of  butter  or  lard,  one- 
half  cup  of  sugar,  two  eggs,  one  and  one-half  cups  of  milk,  four  cups 
of  flour,  six  level  teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  one-half  teaspoon  of 
salt.  Cream  butter  or  lard,  add  beaten  eggs  and  mix  well,  then  dry 
ingredients  sifted  and  milk,  alternately.  Bake  twenty  minutes  in  mod- 
erate oven. 

CARRIE  GLASS. 

CORN  MEAL  MUFFINS— One-fourth  cup  of  butter,  three- 
fourths  cup  of  sugar,  two  eggs,  one  cup  of  milk,  two  cups  of  flour, 
one  cup  of  corn  meal,  four  level  teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  one-half 
teaspoon  of  salt.  Cream  the  butter,  add  the  sugar,  the  eggs  beaten, 
without  separating,  and  alternately  the  milk  and  dry  ingredients. 
Bake  in  hot  buttered  muffin  tins  about  twenty-five  minutes. 

KATE  MLNARIK. 

CORN  MEAL  MUFFINS— One  cup  of  corn  meal,  one  and  one- 
half  cups  of  flour,  one  heaping  teaspoon  of  baking  powder,  one-half 
teaspoon  of  salt,  one-half  cup  of  sugar,  one  tablespoon  of  butter,  two 
well  beaten  eggs.  Sift  dry  ingredients  and  work  in  butter  with  tips 
of  fingers,  and  eggs  and  enough  milk  to  make  a  medium  thick  batter. 
Bake  in  gem  pans. 

BLANCHE  KAMMERER. 


PRAGUE   CHAPTER   BOOK   OF   RECIPES  57 

RICE  POPOVERS— Two  level  cups  of  cold  boiled  rice,  two  level 
cups  of  flour,  two  teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  two  tablespoons  of 
sugar,  two  eggs  beaten  separately,  two  cups  of  milk,  one  teaspoon  of 
salt.  Mash  rice  until  smooth.  Sift  dry  ingredients  together  twice. 
Beat  the  yolks,  add  whites  beaten  stiff,  and  stir  them  into  the  rice. 
Then  add  milk  and  flour  alternately  and  beat  until  smooth.  Put  into 
greased  gem  pans  and  bake  in  a  hot  oven  fifteen  minutes. 

ANNA  KADLEC. 

NUT  AND  FRUIT  MUFFINS— One-half  cup  bread  flour,  three 
teaspoons  baking  powder,  three-quarters  teaspoon  salt,  one-quarter 
cup  brown  sugar,  one  cup  graham  flour,  one-third  cup  broken  walnut 
meats,  six  dates  cut  in  pieces,  three-quarters  cup  milk,  two  table- 
spoons melted  shortening.  Mix  and  sift  bread  flour,  baking  powder, 
salt  and  sugar.  Add  graham  flour,  nuts,  dates,  egg  well  beaten,  milk 
and  shortening.  Beat  thoroughly,  bake  in  muffin  tins  in  hot  oven 
eighteen  or  twenty  minutes. 

JULIA  M.  FARA. 

POTATO  FLOUR  MUFFINS— Four  eggs,  pinch  of  salt,  one- 
half  cup  white  potato  flour,  one  teaspoon  baking  powder,  two  table- 
spoons ice  water,  one  tablespoon  sugar.  Beat  whites  of  eggs  very 
stiff  and  dry.  Add  salt  and  sugar  to  beaten  yolks  and  fold  into  whites. 
Sift  flour  and  baking  powder  twice  and  thoroughly  beat  into  egg 
mixture.  Add  ice  water  last.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  from  fifteen  to 
twenty  minutes. 

MARIE  PAIDAR. 

BRAN  MUFFINS — Two  cups  of  bran,  two  cups  of  flour,  four 
tablespoons  of  sugar,  four  tablespoons  of  melted  butter  or  four  table- 
spoons of  melted  lard,  one  teaspoon  of  salt,  one  teaspoon  of  soda,  one 
teaspoon  of  baking  powder,  two  cups  of  buttermilk.  Dissolve  soda  in 
buttermilk  and  sift  baking  powder  with  flour.  Bake  forty-five  minutes 
in  muffin  tins. 

KATE  MLNARIK. 

GRAHAM  MUFFINS— Cream  one-half  cup  butter  or  half  but- 
ter and  lard,  with  one-half  cup  brown  sugar,  add  two  eggs  beaten, 
one  cup  sour  milk  in  which  dissolve  one  level  teaspoon  soda,  one  and 
three-quarters  cups  graham  flour  not  sifted  and  half  package  or  more 
dates,  stoned  and  chopped.  Bake  in  muffin  or  gem  pans  about  one- 
half  hour. 

BLANCHE  KAMMERER. 


58  PRAGUE   CHAPTER   BOOK   OF  RECIPES 

DESSERTS 

"Serenely  full,  the  epicure  would  say;  Fate  canot  harm  me — /  have  dined 

today." 

JERUSALEM  PUDDING— One  level  teaspoon  of  gelatin  dis- 
solved in  four  tablespoons  of  cold  water.  Soak  ten  minutes,  add  one- 
fourth  cup  of  dates  and  three  figs  cut  fine.  Set  in  double  boiler  and 
cook  until  smooth  and  soft.  Boil  one  tablespoon  of  rice  in  one  cup 
of  water  fifteen  minutes,  drain.  Whip  one  cup  of  cream  and  add  to 
it  the  rice  and  one-half  cup  of  powdered  sugar.  Lastly,  add  the 
chopped  fruit  and  gelatin.  Flavor  with  vanilla.  Mold  and  serve  with 
plain  cream. 

MARIE  PAIDAR. 

DATE  PUDDING— One-fourth  pound  of  dates,  one-fourth 
pound  of  walnuts,  two  tablespoons  of  fine  bread  crumbs,  one-half  cup 
of  sugar,  three  eggs  beaten  separately.  Put  bread  crumbs,  sugar,  one- 
half  teaspoon  of  baking  powder  in  bowl,  beat  eggs,  add  nuts  and 
dates.  Bake  fifteen  minutes  in  a  layer  tin.  Break  up  and  serve  in 
glasses  with  whipped  cream. 

MARIE  PAIDAR. 

WALNUT  PUDDING — Six  eggs,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  scant 
cup  of  bread  crumbs,  three-fourths  cup  of  farina,  scant  teaspoon  bak- 
ing powder,  one  cup  of  walnuts  chopped  coarse.  Beat  yolks  until 
lemon  colored  and  thick,  then  add  sugar  sifted,  then  the  bread  crumbs 
and  farina  sifted  with  the  baking  powder,  then  nuts  and,  lastly,  the 
whites  beaten  stiff.  Bake  in  two  square  layers  well  buttered.  When 
baked  remove  from  tins  and  lay  on  towel  and  cover.  When  cold  cut 
in  squares,  cover  with  chopped  pineapple,  then  whipped  cream. 

MARIE  PAIDAR. 

BREAD  PUDDING — One  cup  of  bread  crumbs,  two  cups  of 
milk,  two  eggs,  reserving  whites  for  top,  one  tablespoon  of  butter 
rubbed  in  crumbs,  one-half  cup  sugar,  one  teaspoon  of  baking  powder, 
grated  rind  and  juice  of  half  a  lemon.  Mix  well,  add  more  milk  if  nec- 
essary to  make  soft  batter.  Bake  until  set  and  brown,  cover  with 
the  beaten  whites  sweetened  with  four  tablespoons  of  sugar  and  put 
back  in  oven  to  brown  and  serve  with  following  sauce :  Juice  of  one 
lemon  with  a  little  water,  one-half  cup  of  sugar,  one  &gg,  mix  well  and 
boil  a  few  minutes,  then  add  a  little  wine  to  flavor. 

BLANCHE  KAMMERER. 

GRAPE  NUT  FRUIT  PUDDING— One  package  Rich's  Try- 
phosa  lemon  gelatine  dissolved  in  one  pint  boiling  water,  then  add  one 
cup  grape  nuts,  one-half  pound  raisins  or  dates  cut  in  pieces  and  as 
many  chopped  walnuts  as  desired.  Mix  together  and  pour  in  indi- 
vidual or  large  mould  and  chill.  Serve  with  sliced  fruits  and  whipped 
cream. 

MARY  KEC. 


PRAGUE   CHAPTER   BOOK   OF   RECIPES  59 

LEMON  PUFF  PUDDING — Cream  three  tablespoons  of  butter 
with  one  cup  of  sugar,  add  yolks  of  four  eggs,  then  one  quart  of  milk, 
two  and  one-half  cups  of  bread  crumbs,  rind  and  juice  of  lemon.  Mix 
thoroughly  and  if  too  thin  add  half  cup  more  of  bread  crumbs,  turn 
in  a  well  buttered  pudding  dish  or  roasting  pan  and  bake  until  thick 
or  set.  Beat  the  whites  stiff,  add  one-half  cup  sugar,  flavor  with 
lemon  juice,  spread  over  pudding  and  put  back  in  oven  to  brown. 

MILADA  R.  KOREN. 

MOORE'S  HEAD  PUDDING— One  pint  of  milk,  one-fourth 
cake  of  German  sweet  chocolate,  one-half  tablespoon  of  cornstarch, 
one  and  one-half  dozen  of  lady  fingers,  one-fourth  teaspoon  of  vanilla, 
six  teaspoons  of  sugar,  three  eggs.  Grate  chocolate  and  mix  with 
three  teaspoons  of  sugar.  Beat  whites  stiff  and  stir  into  chocolate 
mixture.  Mix  cornstarch  with  a  little  cold  milk  until  smooth  and 
add  to  beaten  yolks.  Put  the  rest  of  the  milk  to  heat  with  the  vanilla, 
add  about  three  teaspoons  of  sugar  to  sweeten,  pour  the  cornstarch 
mixture  into  this  slowly  and  cook  until  thick  and  smooth,  stirring 
constantly.  In  bottom  of  a  dish  put  layer  of  lady  fingers,  pour  hot 
custard  over  it,  then  another  layer  of  lady  fingers,  balance  of  custard, 
and  spread  chocolate  mixture  on  top  and  put  in  slow  oven  for  a  few 
minutes  to  dry  chocolate.  Set  aside  to  get  cold.  Serve  in  sherbet 
glasses  with  spoon  of  whipped  cream  and  a  few  chopped  nuts. 

BLANCHE  KAMMERER. 

CHARLOTTE  RUSSE— One-half  package  or  one  envelope  Knox 
gelatine,  one  cup  water  and  steam,  one  cup  sugar,  one  cup  milk,  two 
eggs  beaten.  Cook  like  custard,  add  one  teaspoon  vanilla  and  some 
wine.  Beat  steamed  gelatine  and  custard  together  and  cool.  Add 
two  bottles  of  cream  whipped.  Line  dish  with  lady  fingers  or  maca- 
roons and  pour  over  the  above  mixture. 

BERYL  CISLER. 

PINEAPPLE  DESSERT — Drain  one  can  pineapple,  cut  in  one- 
half  inch  cubes  and  cook  in  iron  skillet  with  one  and  one-half  cups 
brown  sugar  and  one-fourth  pound  butter  until  melted.  Set  aside  to 
cool.  Beat  two  yolks,  add  scant  cup  granulated  sugar,  then  alter- 
nately one  cup  flour  sifted  with  one  heaping  teaspoon  baking  powder, 
and  one-half  cup  warm  water.  Add  one  teaspoonful  lemon  juice  and 
one  teaspoon  vanilla,  last  the  beaten  whites  of  two  eggs.  Pour  this 
over  the  pineapple  but  do  not  stir.  Bake  in  skillet  in  moderate  oven. 
When  cool  turn  out  on  large  chop  plate  and  cover  with  whipped 
cream  sweetened. 

BERYL  CISLER. 

PINEAPPLE  TRIFLE— Small  can  of  grated  pineapple,  two- 
thirds  cup  sugar,  cook  five  minutes.  Dissolve  one  package  of  orange 
Jello  in  one-half  pint  boiling  water.  Add  juice  of  small  orange.  When 
cool  mix  with  above  and  place  on  ice.  When  set  beat  with  one-half 
pint  of  whipped  cream.    Set  on  ice  until  cold. 

EMILY  KERNER. 


60  PRAGUE   CHAPTER   BOOK   OF  RECIPES 

PINEAPPLE  MARSHMALLOW— One  small  can  of  pineapple 
cut  in  pieces  into  which  add  one  package  of  marshmallows  cut  in 
quarters ;  let  soak  a  few  hours,  then  add  one  and  one-half  cups  of 
cream  whipped.    Mix  lightly. 

BLANCHE  KAMMERER. 

QUEEN  OF  TRIFLES— One  pound  of  lady  fingers,  one  pound 
of  macaroons,  one-half  pound  of  shelled  almonds,  one  pint  of  sherry 
wine,  one-half  pound  of  candied  cherries  cut  in  halves,  one  quart  of 
cream  whipped  stiff,  one  pint  of  hot  milk,  two  tablespoons  of  flour, 
one  egg,  one-half  cup  sugar.  Soak  the  macaroons  in  the  wine,  blanch 
and  chop  the  almonds,  not  too  fine.  Make  a  custard  by  mixing  the 
sugar,  flour  and  the  egg  until  very  light,  add  gradually  to  the  hot  milk 
and  let  cook  in  double  boiler  until  very  thick,  stirring  constantly. 
Cool,  add  almonds,  cherries  and  cream  whipped.  Line  glass  bowl 
with  lady  fingers  cut  in  halves.  Add  custard,  macaroons,  cream,  put- 
ting cherries  all  through  bowl ;  have  the  cream  on  top  decorated  with 
cherries. 

ANNA  KADLEC. 

HEAVENLY  HASH — One  pint  of  cream  whipped,  twenty-five 
best  quality  marshmallows,  one  cup  of  nuts,  candied  cherries ;  mix 
the  marshmallows,  cut  in  small  pieces,  with  the  whipped  cream,  let 
stand  on  ice  several  hours,  add  nuts  broken  coarse,  then  decorate  with 
candied  cherries  and  serve  very  cold. 

ANNA  KADLEC. 

FRUIT  FOAM — One  white  of  an  egg,  one  cup  of  powdered 
sugar,  one  cup  of  fruit  mashed  well.  Beat  all  together  for  fifteen 
minutes.     Serve  on  cake.     Strawberries  or  cherries  are  delicious. 

MARIE  STARY. 

BAVARIAN  CREAM — Whip  two  cups  of  cream  stiff,  grate  one- 
half  pound  of  macaroons  or  nuts,  make  a  custard  of  one  pint  of  milk, 
one-half  cup  of  sugar,  one  envelope  or  half  box  Knox's  gelatine,  sof- 
tened three  minutes  in  a  little  cold  water,  yolks  of  four  eggs  and  tea- 
spoon of  vanilla.  Cook  one  minute  and  strain  into  pan  set  in  ice 
water  or  cold  place  and  when  it  begins  to  thicken  add  macaroons  and 
whipped  cream  and  fold  in.  Place  in  cold  place  to  harden.  Serve 
with  chopped  nuts  and  maraschino  cherries.     Serves  twelve  people. 

BLANCHE  KAMMERER. 

PINEAPPLE  CREAM— Soak  half  a  box  or  one  envelope  of 
Knox  gelatine  in  a  large  cup  of  milk  one-half  hour.  Then  heat  until 
dissolved  and  let  cool.  In  a  large  bowl  put  one  can  shredded  pine- 
apple, add  one  cup  sugar,  the  dissolved  gelatine  and  one  pint  of  stiffly 
whipped  cream  to  which  a  pinch  of  salt  has  been  added.  Whip  all 
together  a  few  minutes  and  put  on  ice  before  serving.  This  will  serve 
twelve  people  and  can  also  be  served  in  individual  molds. 

MARY  KEC. 


PRAGUE    CHAPTER   BOOK   OF   RECIPES  61 

MARSHMALLOW  DESSERT— One  cup  whipping  cream,  quar- 
ter pound  marshmallows,  two  slices  pineapple  and  a  half  cup  walnut 
meat  chopped.  Whip  cream,  cut  marshmallow  in  small  pieces  with 
scissors  and  let  stand  in  cream  three  or  four  hours.  Drain  juice  from 
pineapple,  cut  in  small  pieces,  add  to  cream,  then  add  nuts  and  place 
all  on  ice  to  chill  before  serving. 

MARY  KEC. 

ORANGE  BASKETS— Form  baskets  by  cutting  out  a  piece  of 
skin  on  each  side  of  orange,  leaving  strip  over  top  for  handle.  Scoop 
out  pulp  carefully,  remove  white  skin,  mix  with  almonds  blanched  and 
chopped,  three  candied  cherries  to  each  orange  and  sweeten  to  taste. 
Fill  baskets,  put  a  spoonful  of  whipped  cream  on  each  basket  and 
decorate  by  piercing  hole  through  handle  and  run  stems  of  two  or 
three  violets  or  other  small  flowers  through. 

MARY  KEC. 

MAPLE  DESSERT — One  pint  milk,  one  small  cup  brown  sugar, 
one  large  tablespoon  butter,  one-half  teaspoon  vanilla,  four  yolks  well 
beaten  and  three  teaspoons  cornstarch.  Into  one  cup  milk  dissolve 
cornstarch.  Scald  other  cup  milk.  Melt  sugar  in  frying  pan  to  a 
medium  brown,  add  butter  gradually,  then  the  scalded  milk,  bring  to 
a  boil,  stir  in  milk  with  cornstarch,  boil  carefully  until  mixture 
thickens,  remove  from  fire  and  beat  in  yolks,  cook  ten  minutes  longer. 
Serve  when  cold  in  sherbet  glasses  with  whipped  cream,  chopped  nuts 
or  candied  cherry  on  each  portion. 

BLANCHE  KAMMERER. 

MAPLE  MOUSSE — Beat  together  the  yolks  of  two  eggs  and 
one  cupful  of  maple  syrup.  Heat  the  mixture,  stirring  it  until  it 
thickens,  remove  from  fire  and  cool.  Then  fold  in  the  stiffly  beaten 
whites  of  the  eggs  and  one  pint  of  cream  whipped  stiff  and  dry.  The 
ingredients  should  be  well  mixed  so  they  may  not  separate.  Pack  in 
a  mold  in  ice  and  salt  and  do  not  stir  while  it  is  freezing. 

ROSE  WASKA. 

LADY  FINGER  DESSERT— Line  a  spring  form  with  halves  of 
lady  fingers  standing  up.  Then  fill  dish  about  one-third  full  of  lady 
fingers  broken  up  into  small  pieces.  Then  a  layer  of  cream  filling  and 
then  another  layer  of  lady  fingers.  Top  with  whipped  cream  and  dot 
with  cherries. 

CREAM  FILLING— One-half  pound  sweet  butter  creamed  with 
one  cup  sugar,  then  add  three  whole  eggs  and  a  little  lemon  juice. 
Stir  together  very  well  so  that  it  does  not  separate.  Should  be  made 
early  in  the  day  if  used  that  evening.  Takes  about  three  dozen  lady 
fingers. 

ROSE  WASKA. 


62  PRAGUE   CHAPTER   BOOK   OF  RECIPES 

LADY  FINGER  DESSERT— Two  squares  of  sweet  chocolate, 
one-fourth  cup  water,  one-half  cup  granulated  sugar.  Boil  in  double 
boiler  until  smooth.  Let  cool.  Add  four  yolks  and  let  boil  again 
until  thick.  Let  cool.  Cream  one-half  pound  unsalted  butter  with 
one  cup  confectioner's  sugar,  add  the  cooled  chocolate  mixture,  then 
the  beaten  whites  of  four  eggs.  Line  a  nine-inch  spring  form  with 
lady  fingers  close  together  around  form,  standing,  and  cut  balance  of 
lady  fingers  into  small  pieces  and  place  in  bottom  of  form.  Then 
pour  in  the  chocolate  mixture  and  let  stand  in  ice  chest  twenty-four 
hours.  Three  hours  before  serving  remove  from  form  and  cover  with 
one  pint  whipped  cream  sweetened  to  taste. 

JOSEPHINE  HONSIK. 

QUICK  CHOCOLATE  DESSERT— Scald  one  pint  milk  with 
one-half  cup  sugar,  add  two  tablespoons  grated  chocolate,  two  large 
tablespoons  cornstarch  dissolved  in  a  little  cold  milk  and  boil  until 
thick.  Pour  in  mold  and  place  on  ice  or  in  cold  place  to  harden. 
Serve  with  whipped  cream  sweetened  and  flavored  with  vanilla. 

LENA  KRACHT. 

SNOW  BALLS — One-half  cup  butter,  one  cup  sugar,  one-half 
cup  milk,  two  and  one-fourth  cups  flour,  three  and  one-half  teaspoons 
baking  powder,  whites  of  four  eggs.  Cream  the  butter  and  add  sugar 
gradually.  Add  the  milk  and  flour  sifted  with  the  baking  powder. 
Then  add  the  whites  of  eggs  beaten  stiff.  Butter  cups,  fill  half  full 
with  above  mixture,  cover  with  wax  paper  and  tie.  Steam  thirty-five 
minutes.  Serve  with  Fruit  Hard  Sauce :  Cream  two  tablespoons 
butter,  add  one  cup  confectioner's  sugar,  add  the  unbeaten  whites  of 
two  eggs  and  beat  thoroughly  with  Dover  beater,  add  two  cups 
crushed  fresh  strawberries.     Serve  at  once. 

MARIE  PAIDAR. 

QUICK  STRAWBERRY  SHORTCAKE— Three  yolks  beaten 
with  one-half  cup  sugar,  add  one-half  cup  pastry  flour  sifted  with  one 
teaspoon  baking  powder,  then  the  beaten  whites  of  three  eggs.  Bake 
about  fifteen  minutes  in  shallow  square  tin.  Cover  with  sweetened 
strawberries  and  whipped  cream. 

JOSEPHINE  HONSIK. 

STRAWBERRY  SHORTCAKE— One  and  one-half  cups  flour, 
one  and  one-half  teaspoons  baking  powder,  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  one 
tablespoon  sugar,  sifted  into  mixing  bowl.  Add  one  tablespoon  butter 
and  work  together  as  for  pie  crust.  Then  add  one  beaten  egg  and 
enough  milk  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Press  into  well  buttered  cake 
tin,  brush  with  melted  butter  and  bake  twenty  minutes.  Cut  cake 
in  two  with  a  long  sharp  knife  and  spread  bottom  half  liberally  with 
strawberries  cut  in  half  and  sweetened.  Add  top  layer.  Cover  with 
berries,  then  cover  with  whipped  cream  and  garnish  with  a  few  choice 
whole  berries. 

BLANCHE  KAMMERER. 


PRAGUE   CHAPTER   BOOK   OF   RECIPES  63 

DELICATE  SHORTCAKE— Two  cups  sifted  pastry  flour,  two 
teaspoons  baking  powder,  three  tablespoons  butter,  two  tablespoons 
sugar,  one  tgg,  three-fourths  cup  milk,  one-half  teaspoon  salt.  Sift 
salt,  baking  powder  and  flour ;  cream  butter,  sugar  and  egg  until  light ; 
add  milk  and  flour  alternately,  stirring  lightly.  Bake  in  quick  oven. 
Cut  in  half,  cover  half  with  sweetened  berries.  Place  other  half  on  top, 
cover  with  more  berries  and  whipped  cream  over  berries. 

CECELIA  BART  A. 

CUP  CUSTARD— One  pint  milk  scalded,  two  eggs,  four  table- 
spoons sugar,  pinch  of  salt.  Beat  eggs  slightly,  add  salt  and  sugar. 
Pour  the  hot  milk  slowly  into  eggs,  stirring  until  well  mixed.  Add  a 
few  gratings  of  nutmeg.  Strain.  Pour  into  custard  cups,  place  cups 
in  pan  of  boiling  water  and  bake  in  moderate  oven  until  custards  are 
firm  in  center,  twenty  to  twenty-five  minutes.  Try  with  a  knife.  If 
the  knife  is  clean  the  custard  is  done. 

MARIE  PAIDAR. 

CARAMEL  CUSTARD— Cook  three  heaping  tablespoons  brown 
sugar  over  slow  fire  until  brown.  Add  to  two  cups  scalded  milk,  let 
stand  until  sugar  dissolves.  Add  a  pinch  of  salt  to  two  eggs,  beat 
slightly,  pour  scalded  milk  over  eggs,  stirring  until  well  mixed,  and 
bake  same  as  cup  custard. 

MARIE  PAIDAR. 


64  PRAGUE   CHAPTER   BOOK   OF  RECIPES 

ICE  CREAM,  ICES  AND  SHERBETS 

NEAPOLITAN  ICE  CREAM— Eight  yolks,  one  cup  sugar,  one 
quart  cream,  two  teaspoons  vanilla.  Scald  over  hot  water,  but  do  not 
boil  the  cream.  Beat  the  yolks  till  thick  and  creamy.  Add  the  sugar 
and  beat  again.  Pour  the  hot  cream  into  the  eggs  and  when  well 
mixed  turn  into  double  boiler  and  cook  like  boiled  custard.  Strain  at 
once,  and  when  cold  add  the  flavoring  and  freeze. 

MARY  JORDAN. 

VANILLA  ICE  CREAM— Two  quarts  milk,  three  eggs,  two 
cups  sugar,  two  tablespoons  cornstarch,  one  quart  cream,  vanilla. 
Beat  eggs,  sugar  and  cornstarch  together,  heat  milk  and  add  the  egg 
mixture,  cook  in  double  boiler  until  it  thickens,  let  cool,  add  vanilla 
and  cream,  freeze. 

KATE  MLNARIK. 

FANCY  ICE  CREAM — Four  eggs,  one  cup  powdered  sugar,  one 
quart  cream,  one  teaspoon  vanilla,  one-fourth  pound  stale  macaroons, 
one-fourth  pound  marshmallows,  one-fourth  pound  walnut  meats, 
twelve  candied  cherries.  Separate  the  eggs.  Beat  the  yolks  very  light 
with  the  sugar,  add  beaten  whites,  rest  of  ingredients  and  freeze. 

MARIE  PAIDAR. 

STRAWBERRY  ICE  CREAM— Rub  through  a  strainer  one 
quart  of  canned  strawberries,  add  one  quart  thick  cream  and  one  cup 
milk.     If  not  sweet  enough  add  sugar  to  taste.     Freeze. 

MARIE  PAIDAR. 

ICE  CREAM — Beat  two  yolks,  add  one  heaping  cup  of  sugar 
slowly,  then  beaten  whites,  two  cups  of  rich  milk  and  three  cups  of 
thick  cream  whipped,  vanilla  to  flavor  and  freeze. 

BLANCHE  KAMMERER. 

RASPBERRY  ICE — Four  cups  water,  two  cups  sugar,  one  and 
one-fourth  cups  raspberry  juice,  juice  of  one-half  lemon.  Let  sugar 
and  water  boil  six  minutes.  When  cool  add  raspberry  and  lemon 
juice.     Freeze. 

MARY  JORDAN. 

CRANBERRY  ICE — One  quart  cranberries,  one  pint  water,  one 
pound  sugar,  juice  of  two  lemons.  Cook  cranberries  with  the  water 
until  tender,  then  strain  and  add  sugar,  cook  until  sugar  is  dissolved. 
Cool,  stir  in  lemon  juice  and  freeze  just  long  enough  to  form  an  ice. 

LENA  KRACHT. 

FRUIT  SHERBET— Make  a  syrup  of  three  cups  of  sugar,  three 
pints  water.  When  cold  add  juice  of  three  lemons,  three  oranges  and 
three  bananas  or  one  pineapple  cut  fine,  whites  of  six  eggs  well  beaten. 
Mix  and  pour  into  freezer  and  freeze.    Makes  one  gallon. 

MILADA  R.  KOREN. 


PRAGUE    CHAPTER   BOOK   OF   RECIPES  65 

APRICOT  ICE — One  large  can  apricots  rubbed  through  col- 
ander, two  cups  sugar,  juice  of  two  lemons  and  water  enough  to 
almost  fill  one-gallon  freezer.  Then  freeze  and  when  partly  frozen 
add  one  cup  rich  cream  and  allow  to  freeze  until  quite  hard.  Do  not 
fill  the  freezer  full  the  first  time  as  it  would  not  allow  for  the  cream 
and  would  overflow.     Makes  one  gallon. 

MILADA  R.  KOREN. 

LEMON  MILK  SHERBET— Two  cups  sugar,  one-half  cup 
lemon  juice,  one  quart  milk.    Mix  in  order  given  and  freeze. 

MARY  JORDAN. 

ORANGE  SHERBET — Two  oranges,  one  lemon,  two  cups  sugar, 
one  cup  water,  three  cups  milk.  Grate  the  yellow  rind  of  one  orange 
and  one-half  a  lemon,  taking  care  not  to  remove  any  of  the  white  skin. 
Squeeze  the  juice  of  oranges  and  lemon  and  add  to  grated  rind.  Let 
it  stand  half  an  hour  and  then  strain  through  soft  cloth  into  freezer. 
Add  sugar  and  water  and  stir  well.  When  thoroughly  chilled  add  the 
milk  and  freeze  the  whole  mixture. 

MARIE  PAIDAR. 

PINEAPPLE  SHERBET— One  can  grated  pineapple,  one  quart 
milk,  one  cup  sugar,  juice  of  one  lemon.  Add  sugar  to  pineapple  and 
lemon  juice.     Add  milk  and  freeze. 

MARY  JORDAN. 


66  PRAGUE   CHAPTER   BOOK   OF   RECIPES 


PIES 

PIE  CRUST  FOR  ONE  PIE— Rub  one  cup  of  flour  with  two 
tablespoons  of  lard  together  lightly,  add  a  pinch  of  salt,  then  three 
tablespoons  of  water,  possibly  a  little  more,  and  roll  out. 

MILADA  R.  KOREN. 

LEMON  RAISIN  PIE — One  cup  of  chopped  raisins,  seeded,  and 
the  juice  and  grated  rind  of  one  lemon,  three-quarters  cup  of  cold 
water,  mixed  with  two  tablespoons  of  flour,  three-quarters  cup  of 
sugar,  two  tablespoons  butter.    Stir  lightly,  put  in  pie  crust  and  bake. 

CHOCOLATE  FILLING— One  cup  of  milk,  pinch  of  salt,  one 
and  one-half  squares  of  bitter  chocolate,  boil  together.  Mix  two  level 
tablespoons  of  flour  with  a  little  water,  beat  in  two  yolks,  add  five 
tablespoons  of  sugar,  and  one  teaspoon  of  vanilla.  Stir  well  together 
and  line  your  tins  with  pie  crust.     Add  filling  and  bake. 

FOR  MERINGUE— Beat  two  whites  of  egg  until  light,  add  four 
tablespoons  of  sugar  and  one  teaspoon  of  vanilla.  Spread  over  filling 
and  set  into  oven  to  brown. 

LILLIAN  TUREK. 

STRAWBERRY  PIE— One  large  tablespoon  of  butter,  one  of 
lard  rubbed  into  one  cup  of  flour,  add  pinch  of  salt,  yolks  of  three  eggs 
well  beaten  and  enough  milk  to  make  dough  (about  two  tablespoons), 
roll  out,  line  large  pie  tin,  sprinkle  with  very  little  flour,  add  straw- 
berries, sprinkle  with  level  tablespoon  of  flour,  one  cup  of  sugar,  cover 
with  whites  of  eggs  beaten  and  sweetened  and  lastly  strips  of  dough 
one  inch  wide  laid  lengthwise  and  crosswise.  Bake  three-quarters  of 
an  hour.  Tie  narrow  strip  of  cloth  around  edge  of  pie  tin  to  prevent 
juice  from  running  out.  -i 

BLANCHE  KAMMERER. 

DATE  PIE — Remove  stones  from  a  package  of  dates,  boil  in  a 
little  water  until  dates  are  soft,  drain  and  rub  through  coarse  sieve  or 
mash  well.  Scald  one  and  one-half  cups  milk,  then  add  one-half  cup 
milk  in  which  has  been  thoroughly  mixed  one  tablespoon  flour,  one 
egg  and  a  pinch  of  salt,  boil  all  until  thickened,  then  add  date  pulp, 
sweeten  to  taste.  Pour  into  open  pie  crust  and  bake.  Serve  cold  with 
whipped  cream,  garnished  with  stuffed  dates. 

MARY  KEC. 

CREAM  PIE — Scald  one  and  one-half  cups  of  milk  with  two- 
thirds  cup  of  sugar,  dissolve  three  teaspoons  of  cornstarch  in  half  cup 
of  milk,  add  two  well  beaten  yolks  and  pour  all  slowly  into  boiling 
milk,  stir  constantly,  add  piece  of  butter  and  boil  until  thick  and 
smooth,  add  vanilla  and  half  cup  of  cocoanut  if  desired,  pour  into 
baked  pie  crust,  cover  with  whites  of  eggs  beaten  and  sweetened  and 
put  back  in  oven  to  brown. 

BLANCHE  KAMMERER. 


PRAGUE    CHAPTER   BOOK   OF   RECIPES  67 

CHOCOLATE  CREAM  PIE— Mix  five  tablespoons  bitter  choco- 
late with  four  tablespoons  flour,  one-half  cup  sugar,  one-fourth  tea- 
spoon salt.  Add  two  cups  scalded  milk,  stirring  constantly.  Boil  fif- 
teen minutes,  then  add  one  well  beaten  egg  and  cook  two  minutes. 
Pour  into  baked  pie  crust  and  when  cool  cover  with  sweetened 
whipped  cream. 

EMILY  KERNER. 

BANANA  CREAM  PIE — Slice  four  bananas  into  a  baked  pie 
crust  and  pour  over  it  a  half  pint  of  whipped  cream  sweetened  and 
flavored  with  one-half  teaspoon  of  vanilla. 

EMILY  KERNER. 

RAISIN  PIE — Wash  one-half  package  seedless  raisins,  cover 
with  a  cup  of  cold  water  and  slowly  bring  to  a  boil.  Add  one-half  cup 
sugar,  thicken  with  a  tablespoon  of  flour  mixed  smooth  with  a  little 
water  and  while  boiling  add  a  small  piece  of  butter.  Pour  in  open  crust, 
cover  with  strips  of  pastry  or  entire  top  of  pastry  and  bake  thirty  to 
forty-five  minutes.     One  large  pie. 

BLANCHE  KAMMERER. 

SQUASH  OR  PUMPKIN  PIE— To  each  cup  of  baked  squash  or 
pumpkin  add  two  eggs,  one  cup  milk,  one-half  cup  sugar,  two  table- 
spoons molasses  or  syrup,  one  tablespoon  butter.  Cinnamon,  ginger, 
nutmeg,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste. 

ROSE  W ASK A. 

PUMPKIN  PIE — One  can  of  pumpkin,  one  and  one-third  cups 
of  brown  sugar,  two  teaspoons  of  cinnamon,  one  teaspoon  of  ginger, 
one  teaspoon  of  salt,  five  yolks,  stir  well  then  add  one  cup  cream  and 
one-half  cup  of  milk  and  whites  of  five  eggs  beaten  stiff,  mix  thor- 
oughly. Line  two  deep  pie  tins  with  crust,  fill  and  bake  in  moderate 
oven. 

MARIE  PAIDAR. 

COCOANUT  CUSTARD  PIE— Six  level  tablespoons  flour,  two 
level  tablespoons  shortening,  pinch  of  salt,  pinch  of  baking  powder 
and  enough  cold  water  (about  two  tablespoons)  to  make  a  dough  stiff 
enough  to  roll  out.  Sift  dry  ingredients,  chop  in  the  shortening,  then 
add  water,  mix  quickly,  handling  as  little  as  possible.  Line  pie  tin 
with  pastry.  Custard :  Two  eggs,  two  cups  milk,  pinch  salt,  one- 
fourth  cup  sugar,  one-half  teaspoon  vanilla,  beat  well,  add  one-half 
cup  shredded  cocoanut,  pour  into  crust  and  bake  until  custard  is  set. 

MAY  FRIEDL. 

CHERRY  CUSTARD  PIE— Line  a  pie  tin  with  crust,  half  fill 
with  pitted  cherries,  beat  slightly  two  eggs,  one  cup  of  sugar  and  one- 
half  cup  of  milk.  Pour  over  cherries  and  bake  until  set.  Raspberries 
or  sliced  peaches  can  be  made  in  the  same  way,  using  one-fourth  cup 
less  of  sugar. 

MARY  JORDAN. 


68  PRAGUE   CHAPTER   BOOK   OF   RECIPES 

SOUR  CREAM  PIE — One  cup  of  sour  cream,  three-fourths  cup 
of  sugar,  four  eggs  beaten  separately  and  one-eighth  teaspoon  of 
mace.  Beat  yolks  and  sugar,  add  cream,  mace  and  fold  in  the  beaten 
whites.     Line  one  pie  tin  with  crust,  fill  and  bake  in  moderate  oven. 

MARIE  PAIDAR. 

SOUR  CREAM  PIE — Two  eggs,  one  cup  of  raisins,  two  cups 
sugar,  two  cups  sour  cream,  three  large  tablespoons  vinegar,  one  tea- 
spoon cinnamon,  one-half  teaspoon  cloves  and  a  pinch  of  salt.  Beat 
eggs  and  sugar,  add  cream,  vinegar,  raisins  and  other  ingredients, 
adding  the  whites  of  eggs  last.  Line  pie  tins  with  crust,  fill  and  bake 
in  moderate  oven.     Will  till  two  pies. 

MARY  KEC. 

GRAPE  FILLING — Remove  skins  and  stew  pulp  of  grapes  ten 
minutes.  Put  through  colander  to  remove  seeds.  Then  mix  skins  and 
pulp  together  and  let  boil  five  minutes.  For  one  pie  use  one  cup  of 
grape  mixture,  stir  in  one-half  cup  of  sugar  that  has  been  mixed  well 
with  one  tablespoon  of  flour,  two  yolks  beaten  well,  boil  until  thick 
and  set  aside  to  cool.  Fill  baked  crust  with  mixture,  cover  with  stiffly 
beaten  whites  to  which  has  been  added  one  tablespoon  of  powdered 
sugar  and  brown  lightly. 

ROSE  KERNER. 

PINEAPPLE  PIE} — Stir  into  the  juice  of  one  can  of  pineapple, 
one  cup  of  sugar,  two  eggs,  two  tablespoons  of  cornstarch,  butter  the 
size  of  an  egg,  and  boil  together  about  five  minutes.  When  cold  add 
pineapple  pulp.  This  makes  filling  for  two  pies.  Fill  baked  pie  crusts, 
and  cover  with  meringue  or  whipped  cream. 

ROSE  KERNER. 

BUTTERSCOTCH  PIE  FILLING— One-half  cup  of  butter,  one 
cup  of  milk,  two  cups  of  brown  sugar,  four  egg  yolks,  two  table- 
spoons of  cornstarch,  one  tablespoon  of  vanilla,  two  cups  boiling 
water.  Boil  water  and  sugar,  beat  egg  yolks  with  milk  and  corn- 
starch, add  salt  and  flavoring,  boil  in  a  double  boiler.  Fill  into  a 
baked  pie  crust  and  spread  with  the  beaten  whites,  and  put  back  in 
oven  to  brown. 

JULIA  M.  FARA. 

LEMON  FILLING — Juice  of  three  lemons,  grated  rind  of  three 
lemons,  one  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar,  two  tablespoons  of  cornstarch, 
three  tablespoons  of  flour,  five  or  six  yolks  well  beaten.  Beat  thor- 
oughly, then  add  juice  of  lemons,  three  cups  of  water,  butter  size 
walnut.  Boil  in  double  boiler  until  thick.  Have  pie  crust  baked,  add 
filling,  cover  with  the  beaten  whites  sweetened,  put  back  in  oven  to 
brown.     This  makes  two  pies. 

KATE  MLNARIK. 


PRAGUE   CHAPTER   BOOK   OF   RECIPES  69 

MINCE  MEAT — One  and  one-half  pounds  of  beef  chopped,  three 
pounds  of  apples,  one  pound  of  raisins,  one  pound  of  currants,  one 
pound  of  brown  sugar,  one-half  pint  of  molasses,  one-fourth  pound  of 
citron,  one-half  pound  of  suet,  spices  to  taste.  One  quart  or  more  of 
apple  cider.  Chop  meat,  apples,  citron  and  suet.  Mix  all  together 
and  boil  one-half  hour.     Seal  while  hot. 

MARY  KLENHA. 

MINCE  MEAT — Two  pounds  kidney  beef  suet,  one  pound  seeded 
raisins,  one  pound  sultana  raisins,  one  pound  currants,  one-fourth 
pound  citron  peel,  one-fourth  pound  orange  peel,  one-half  pound  figs, 
one  tablespoon  salt,  one  nutmeg  grated,  one  tablespoon  cinnamon, 
one-half  teaspoon  mace,  one-half  teaspoon  cloves,  grated  rind  and 
juice  of  two  lemons,  two  quarts  cider,  two  pounds  brown  sugar,  one 
pound  dates,  twelve  pounds  apples  and  one  small  glass  sherry  or 
brandy.  Boil  the  beef  the  day  before  with  just  enough  water  so  that 
when  the  meat  is  tender  the  water  will  be  boiled  back  into  the  meat. 
The  following  morning  add  the  sugar  to  cider  and  boil  until  half  the 
amount  remains.  Put  meat  and  suet  through  food  chopper,  and  the 
raisins,  citron  and  orange  peel,  dates,  figs  and  apples  may  be  cut  by 
hand  or  put  through  coarse  food  chopper.  Mix  all  together  and  bring 
to  boil  and  seal  boiling  hot.  The  juice  of  pickled  peaches  or  pears 
added  greatly  improves  the  flavor. 

GENEVIEVE  ENGELTHALER. 


70  PRAGUE    CHAPTER   BOOK   OF  RECIPES 

CAKES 

With  weights  and  measures  just  and  true 

Oven  of  even  heat, 
Well-buttered  tins  and  quiet  nerve ; 

Success  will  be  complete. 

SPONGE  CAKE — Yolks  of  six  eggs,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  table- 
spoon of  lemon  juice,  grated  rind  of  one-half  lemon,  whites  of  six  eggs, 
one  cup  of  flour.  Beat  yolks  until  thick  and  lemon  colored,  add  sugar 
gradually  and  continue  beating,  add  lemon  juice,  rind  and  whites  of 
eggs  beaten  until  stiff  and  dry.  When  whites  are  partially  mixed  with 
yolks  carefully  cut  and  fold  in  flour,  mixed  and  sifted  with  pinch  of 
salt.     Bake  in  an  unbuttered  pan  in  a  slow  oven  for  fifty  minutes. 

JULIA  M.  FAR  A. 

SPONGE  CAKE — Four  eggs  well  beaten,  add  slowly  two  cups 
sugar,  then  add  slowly  one  and  one-half  cups  flour,  sifted  three  times. 
In  another  half  cup  flour  sift  one  and  a  half  teaspoons  baking  powder, 
add  to  first  mixture  and  last  add  one  cup  boiling  water  and  flavoring. 
Serve  with  whipped  cream  and  sliced  fruit. 

MARY  KEC. 

SPONGE  CAKE — Four  eggs  beaten  separately,  one  cup  of  sugar, 
three-quarters  cup  of  flour  sifted  before  measuring,  the  juice  and 
grated  rind  of  one  lemon.  Beat  the  yolks  until  thick  and  lemon  color, 
about  ten  minutes.  Add  sugar  and  lemon  and  beat  another  ten  min- 
utes, then  the  beaten  whites  of  eggs.  Add  the  flour  very  lightly  and 
bake  in  moderate  oven. 

JULIA  DENK. 

VELVET  SPONGE  CAKE— Three  eggs  beaten  until  very  light, 
add  one  cup  of  sugar  and  beat  again,  one  teaspoon  of  lemon  extract, 
add  half  a  cup  of  flour  without  baking  powder,  beating  steadily,  then 
add  half  a  cup  of  flour  with  one  teaspoon  of  baking  powder,  and  stir 
in  half  a  cup  of  boiling  water.     Bake  in  layers  or  loaf  cake. 

FLORA  V.  VOCKEL. 

SUNSHINE  CAKE— Twelve  whites,  ten  yolks,  one  and  one- 
half  cups  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  flour,  one  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar, 
grated  rind  of  one  lemon  or  orange.  Beat  yolks  fifteen  minutes,  beat 
whites  to  a  foam  with  wire  spoon,  add  cream  of  tartar  and  beat  until 
stiff,  beat  with  yolks,  add  sugar  and  beat,  then  the  lemon  or  orange 
rind,  lastly  the  flour  sifted  five  times.  Fold  flour  in  lightly.  Bake 
forty-five  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven.     Use  Van  Dusen's  cake  tins. 

MARIE  PAIDAR. 

SUNSHINE  CAKE — Six  yolks  beaten  ten  minutes,  seven-eighths 
cup  sugar,  one  teaspoon  tartar,  three-fourths  cup  flour,  four  whites 
beaten  and  added  last.     Bake  thirty  minutes. 

MARIE  E.  TUREK. 


PRAGUE    CHAPTER   BOOK   OF   RECIPES  7\ 

SUNSHINE  CAKE — Six  eggs,  one-third  teaspoon  cream  tartar, 
two-thirds  cup  pastry  flour,  one  cup  sugar,  grated  rind  of  half  a  lemon 
or  one  teaspoon  vanilla.  Sift  and  measure  sugar  and  flour,  then  sift 
flour  four  times.  Separate  eggs,  beat  whites  to  a  foam,  add  cream  of 
tartar  and  beat  until  very  stiff.  Beat  yolks  until  light  and  lemon 
colored,  add  sugar  and  beat  again,  then  add  the  beaten  whites  and 
flavoring  and  last  fold  in  flour.  Bake  in  ungreased  tube  pan  thirty  to 
forty  minutes.     Invert  pan  to  cool. 

MAY  JURENA. 

SUNSHINE  CAKE— Six  whites  beaten  to  a  foam,  add  one  tea- 
spoon cream  of  tartar  and  beat  until  stiff,  beat  in  one  cup  of  sugar,  add 
beaten  yolks  of  five  eggs  and  one  teaspoon  of  flavoring,  fold  in  one  cup 
flour.     Bake  in  moderate  oven  about  thirty  minutes. 

JOSEPHINE  G.  KLEISNER. 

ANGEL  FOOD — Whites  of  eleven  eggs,  beaten  stiff,  one  glass  of 
sugar,  one  glass  flour,  quarter  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar.  Sift  dry 
ingredients  four  times,  stir  in  beaten  whites  of  eggs  and  bake  in  a  loaf. 

JULIA  M.  FAR  A. 

FILBERT  TORTE— One-half  cup  of  bread  crumbs,  one  and  one- 
half  cups  of  powdered  sugar,  grated  rind  of  one  lemon,  juice  of  one- 
half  lemon,  one-half  pound  of  grated  filberts,  eight  whites  of  eggs 
beaten  stiff,  eight  yolks.  Beat  yolks  and  sugar  very  light,  add  bread 
crumbs  and  the  rest  of  the  ingredients  in  order,  the  beaten  whites  last. 
Bake  in  spring  form  forty  or  forty-five  minutes  or  bake  in  two  layers 
with  fresh  strawberries  or  sweetened  whipped  cream  between  and  on 
top  of  cake. 

ANNA  KADLEC. 

NUT  TORTE — One  dozen  whites  beaten  stiff,  add  eight  ounces 
of  sugar  sifted  several  times,  four  ounces  of  grated  hazelnuts  and  four 
ounces  of  grated  almonds.     Bake  in  spring  form  forty  minutes. 

MARIE  PAIDAR. 

POTATO  CHOCOLATE  TORTE— One  cup  of  butter,  two 
cups  of  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  cream,  one  cup  of  potatoes  boiled  and 
riced,  one  cup  of  almonds  grated,  one  cup  of  bitter  chocolate  grated, 
four  yolks  of  eggs,  one  and  one-half  cups  of  sifted  flour,  one-half  tea- 
spoon of  cinnamon,  one-half  teaspoon  of  cloves,  two  teaspoons  of  bak- 
ing powder,  beaten  whites  of  four  eggs,  cream  the  butter  and  sugar 
thoroughly,  add  one  yolk  at  a  time,  beating  well  before  adding  another 
until  all  are  used,  add  the  rest  of  the  ingredients  and  whites  last.  Stir 
well  and  bake  in  two  long,  narrow  loaves.  Icing  for  same:  Three  cups 
of  sugar,  one  cup  of  milk,  butter  the  size  of  an  egg,  one-fourth  pound 
of  bitter  chocolate,  one  teaspoon  of  vanilla.  Stir  butter,  sugar  and 
milk  together  and  when  it  boils  add  chocolate.  Boil  until  it  hardens 
when  dropped  in  cold  water.  Take  from  stove,  add  vanilla  and  beat 
until  it  thickens,  pour  over  cake. 

MARIE  PAIDAR. 


72  PRAGUE   CHAPTER   BOOK   OF  RECIPES 

NUT  TORTE — One  cup  sugar,  six  eggs  beaten  separately,  one 
pound  walnuts  cut  fine,  one  pound  dates  cut  fine,  six  soda  crackers 
rolled  and  sifted  with  three-fourths  teaspoon  baking  powder.  Mix 
ingredients  in  order  given,  adding  the  whites  last.  Bake  in  a  slow 
oven.  When  cold  break  in  small  pieces  and  serve  individually  with 
whipped  cream  sweetened  to  taste. 

MOLLIE  L.  LAWRENCE. 

CHOCOLATE  LAYER  TORTE— Ten  yolks,  one  cup  of  sugar, 
three-fourths  cup  of  bitter  chocolate  grated,  three-fourths  cup  of 
grated  almonds,  one  cup  of  grated  wheat  bread,  one-half  teaspoon  of 
cinnamon,  one-half  teaspoon  of  cloves,  juice  of  half  a  lemon  and  grated 
rind  of  one  lemon,  a  little  brandy,  ten  whites  beaten  stiff.  To  the 
beaten  yolks  add  the  sugar,  beat  well,  then  add  the  rest  of  the  ingre- 
dients in  order  and  fold  in  the  beaten  whites  lightly.  Bake  in  three 
layers.  Custard  filling  for  same :  One  cup  of  scalded  milk,  one-fourth 
cup  of  sugar,  one  tablespoon  of  cornstarch,  two  yolks  of  eggs,  one-half 
teaspoon  of  vanilla,  mix  dry  ingredients,  add  eggs  slightly  beaten  and 
pour  on  gradually  the  scalded  milk,  cook  in  double  boiler,  stir  con- 
stantly until  thickened.    Cool  and  flavor.    Put  between  layers. 

ANNA  KADLEC. 

ALMOND  TORTE— One-half  pound  sugar,  one-half  teaspoon 
baking  powder,  grated  rind  of  one  lemon,  eight  yolks,  one-half  pound 
grated  almonds,  whites  of  eight  eggs,  flavor  to  taste.  Beat  yolks  until 
thick  and  lemon  colored,  add  sugar  and  beat  again ;  add  other  ingre- 
dients, folding  in  the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  eggs  last.  Bake  in  slow 
oven  forty-five  minutes. 

MARY  KLENHA. 

ANGEL  TORTE— One-half  pound  powdered  sugar,  one-half 
pound  almonds,  one-half  pound  dates,  five  eggs,  two  teaspoons  baking 
powder.  Blanch  almonds,  chop  fine  or  grind ;  stone  dates,  pour  boiling 
water  over  them,  drain  and  rub  to  smooth  paste.  Beat  the  yolk  of 
one  egg  and  stir  in  a  small  portion  of  the  date  pulp  and  some  sugar, 
and  continue  until  egg,  dates  and  sugar  are  all  mixed.  Stir  well.  Stir 
in  the  almonds  lightly ;  add  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs.  Bake  in  well 
greased  and  floured  spring  form  in  moderate  oven.  When  cool  cut 
in  two  layers  and  spread  whipped  cream  sweetened  between  and 
on  top. 

JULIA  M.  FARA. 

ANGEL  DATE  TORTE— Stone  one  pound  of  dates  and  cut  in 
small  pieces,  seven  ounces  of  shelled  pecans,  whites  of  seven  eggs, 
five  ounces  powdered  sugar,  two  teaspoons  of  baking  powder.  Beat 
whites  stiff,  add  sugar,  sifted  with  baking  powder,  pecans  grated  and 
then  the  dates.     Bake  in  spring  form  forty  minutes. 

MARIE  PAIDAR. 


PRAGUE   CHAPTER   BOOK   OF   RECIPES  73 

DATE  TORTE — Nine  eggs,  one  and  three-fourths  cups  of  sugar, 
sixteen  dates  sliced,  three  tablespoons  of  grated  sweet  chocolate,  one 
teaspoon  of  cinnamon,  one-half  teaspoon  of  cloves,  one  heaping  cup 
of  cracker  crumbs,  two  tablespoons  of  wine,  brandy  or  lemon  juice. 
Rub  the  dates  to  a  smooth  paste  with  wine,  brandy  or  lemon  juice. 
Beat  two  whole  eggs  and  seven  yolks,  add  sugar,  beat  again,  add  the 
dates,  chocolate  and  spices  and  cracker  crumbs  and  stir  well,  lastly 
fold  in  the  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs.  Bake  in  a  good  sized  spring 
form  forty  minutes. 

ANNA  KADLEC. 

BREAD  TORTE — Five  ounces  grated  bread  crumbs,  five  ounces 
of  grated  almonds,  ten  eggs  beaten  separately,  one  teaspoon  cinna- 
mon, one  teaspoon  allspice,  two  cups  sugar,  half  a  nutmeg  grated,  one 
tablespoon  brandy.  Bake  in  two  layers.  Filling  for  same :  Two  eggs, 
one  cup  milk,  one  teaspoon  vanilla,  one  teaspoon  cornstarch,  three 
tablespoons  grated  almonds.     Boil  until  thick. 

MARIE  PAIDAR. 

CRUMB  AND  FARINA  CAKE— Six  eggs,  one-fourth  cup  fine 
bread  crumbs,  three-fourths  cup  white  farina,  one  and  one-half  tea- 
spoons baking  powder,  one  cup  grated  or  ground  walnut  meats  and 
one  and  one-half  cups  sugar.  Beat  yolks  and  sugar  five  minutes. 
Mix  walnuts,  crumbs,  farina  and  baking  powder  together  and  add  to 
yolks  and  sugar,  then  add  the  beaten  whites  last  and  bake  in  layers  in 
moderate  oven.  Serve  with  whipped  cream  between  layers  and  on  top. 

MARY  KEC. 

RYE  BREAD  TORTE— Nine  eggs  beaten  separately,  one  cup 
sugar,  one-half  pound  almonds  grated,  one-fourth  pound  rye  bread 
crumbs.  Stir  yolks  and  sugar  ten  minutes,  fold  in  the  beaten  whites, 
then  almonds  and  lastly  the  bread  crumbs.  Bake  in  two  layers. 
French  filling  for  same:  Cream  one-half  pound  of  unsalted  butter  with 
one  cup  of  confectioner's  sugar,  add  two  yolks,  beat  until  smooth. 
Two  tablespoons  cocoa  or  strong  coffee  may  be  added. 

CECELIA  BART  A. 

RUM  TORTE — Eight  eggs  separated,  one-half  pound  of  almonds 
grated,  one  cup  of  sugar,  juice  and  rind  of  one  lemon,  two  heaping 
tablespoons  of  bread  crumbs,  two  teaspoons  of  flour,  one-half  teaspoon 
of  baking  powder.  Beat  the  yolks  with  the  sugar  until  light.  Add  the 
almonds,  bread  crumbs  and  lemon.  Then  fold  in  lightly  the  beaten 
whites  and  the  flour  and  baking  powder  mixed.  Bake  in  spring  form 
for  one  hour  in  moderate  oven.  Allow  the  cake  to  cool,  then  cut 
crosswise  through  the  center  into  two  layers  and  put  in  a  filling  of  one 
glass  of  raspberry  jelly  and  one  cup  of  chopped  walnuts.  Frost  with 
the  following  mixture :  Two  cups  confectioner's  sugar,  two  table- 
spoons of  rum  and  four  tablespoons  of  cream  stirred  until  smooth. 
Spread  over  top  and  sides. 

MARIE  PAIDAR. 


74  PRAGUE    CHAPTER   BOOK   OF  RECIPES 

MOCHA  TORTE — Five  eggs  beaten  separately,  one  cup  pow- 
dered sugar,  one  and  one-half  tablespoons  strong  black  coffee,  one  cup 
flour  and  one  teaspoon  baking  powder  sifted  three  times.  Bake  in 
two  layers.  Filling:  Whip  one  pint  sweet  cream,  add  two  teaspoons 
powdered  sugar  and  one  teaspoon  black  coffee. 

CECELIA  BART  A. 

LADY  FINGER  TORTE— Six  yolks,  one  and  one-half  cups  of 
granulated  sugar,  eleven  stale  lady  ringers  rolled  fine,  two  tablespoons 
of  brandy,  one  cup  of  grated  almonds,  pinch  of  salt,  whites  of  five 
eggs.  Beat  yolks  and  sugar  very  light  until  lemon  colored,  add  the 
rest  of  the  ingredients,  the  beaten  whites  last.  Bake  in  two  layers  in 
slow  oven  forty  minutes.  Nut  filling  for  same  :  One  pound  of  walnuts 
grated,  three-fourths  cup  of  milk,  one-half  cup  of  granulated  sugar, 
two  yolks  beaten.  Mix  eggs  and  sugar,  add  milk,  then  cook  until  it 
thickens  and  add  one-half  teaspoon  of  vanilla  and  the  nuts.  Spread 
between  layers  and  over  top  of  cake. 

ANNA  KADLEC. 

MARBLE  CAKE — Whites  of  four  eggs,  one  cup  of  sugar,  half 
a  cup  of  butter,  half  a  cup  of  sweet  milk,  two  teaspoons  baking  pow- 
der, one  teaspoon  vanilla  and  two  and  a  half  cups  of  sifted  flour.  Dark 
part :  Yolks  of  four  eggs,  one  cup  of  brown  sugar,  half  cup  of  molasses, 
half  a  cup  of  butter,  half  a  cup  of  sour  milk,  one  teaspoon  of  cloves, 
one  teaspoon  cinnamon,  one  teaspoon  of  mace,  one  nutmeg  grated, 
one  teaspoon  of  soda,  and  one  and  a  half  cups  of  flour.  Drop  into  a 
buttered  pan  a  spoonful  of  batter,  first  the  light  and  then  the  dark 
alternately,  so  it  has  the  appearance  of  marble. 

CARRIE  GLASS. 

MARBLE  CAKE — Cream  quarter  cup  of  butter  with  one  cup  of 
sugar,  half  a  cup  of  milk,  one  and  a  half  cups  of  flour,  one  teaspoon 
baking  powder,  a  little  vanilla,  and  last  four  whites  of  eggs  beaten 
stiff.  Yellow  part :  Cream  three-quarters  cup  sugar  with  one  table- 
spoon of  butter,  yolks  of  four  eggs,  quarter  cup  milk,  quarter  teaspoon 
vanilla;  add  one  cup  of  flour  and  stir  well.  Dark  part:  Quarter  cake 
of  chocolate  in  a  little  hot  milk,  one  tablespoon  of  sugar,  one  teaspoon 
vanilla.  Add  half  a  cup  of  yellow  and  half  a  cup  of  white  batter  in 
this  mixture.     Drop  by  tablespoon  into  pan,  alternately.     Excellent. 

FLORA  v'.VOCKEL. 

MARBLE  CAKE — Three-fourths  cup  butter,  two  cups  sugar, 
four  eggs,  one  cup  milk,  three  cups  flour,  four  teaspoons  baking  pow- 
der, one-fourth  pound  chocolate  grated,  teaspoon  cinnamon,  one-half 
teaspoon  cloves  and  one-half  teaspoon  vanilla.  Cream  butter  and 
sugar,  add  eggs  one  at  a  time,  beating  continually,  then  add  flour 
sifted  with  baking  powder  and  the  milk,  alternately,  mix  well.  To 
one-third  of  this  dough  add  the  chocolate,  spices  and  flavoring.  Butter 
a  deep  pan.  Put  first  a  layer  of  white  dough,  then  dark  and  so  on, 
reserving  white  dough  for  top.  Bake  forty-five  minutes  in  moderate 
oven. 

MAY  JURENA. 


PRAGUE    CHAPTER   BOOK   OF  RECIPES  75 

SPICE  CAKE — One  cup  butter,  three  cups  brown  sugar,  four 
eggs  beaten  separately,  one  cup  sour  cream,  one  teaspoon  cinnamon, 
one  cup  walnuts  chopped  fine,  three  cups  flour,  one  teaspoon  baking 
soda. 

MAY  JURENA. 

PLAIN  SPICE  CAKE — Cream  two  tablespoons  of  lard,  two  table- 
spoons of  butter,  with  one  cup  of  sugar  and  one  beaten  egg  until 
smooth;  add  one  cup  of  milk,  one  and  one-half  cups  flour,  pinch  of 
salt,  half  a  teaspoon  cinnamon,  half  a  teaspoon  cloves,  quarter  tea- 
spoon ginger,  little  nutmeg,  and  one  teaspoon  soda.  Beat  well,  and 
bake  in  moderate  oven.    Raisins  or  nuts  may  be  added. 

ROSE  KERNER. 

SPICE  CAKE — Two  cups  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  three  eggs, 
one  cup  sour  cream,  two  and  one-half  cups  flour,  three  teaspoons  bak- 
ing powder,  one-half  teaspoon  each,  cloves,  cinnamon  and  ginger,  two- 
thirds  cup  currants  or  raisins,  one-half  cup  walnut  meats.  Cream  the 
butter  and  sugar,  add  the  eggs  one  at  a  time.  Mix  the  flour,  baking 
powder  and  spices,  adding  the  cream  and  the  flour  mixture  alternately 
and  lastly  the  raisins  and  nuts  rolled  in  flour.  Bake  in  a  moderate 
oven  in  a  well-greased  shallow  pan. 

MAY  JURENA. 

SPICED  SUGAR  CAKE— Cream  half  a  cup  of  butter  with  one 
and  one-half  cups  of  sugar,  yolk  of  three  eggs,  two-thirds  cup  of  milk, 
two  heaping  cups  of  flour,  one  teaspoon  each  of  cinnamon  and  cloves, 
half  a  teaspoon  of  nutmeg,  three  teaspoons  of  baking  powder  and  last 
the  whites  of  three  eggs.  Soft  Icing:  One  cup  of  sugar,  half  a  cup  of 
boiling  water,  quarter  teaspoon  of  cream  of  tartar,  whites  of  two 
eggs,  one  teaspoon  of  vanilla.  Boil  the  water  and  the  sugar  until  it 
threads,  then  add  cream  of  tartar  and  pour  it  gradually  over  the  beaten 
whites.    Beat  constantly  until  thick  enough  to  spread. 

JULIA  DENK. 

GINGER  CAKE — Half  a  cup  of  molasses,  one  cup  brown  sugar, 
half  a  cup  shortening,  one  or  two  well  beaten  eggs,  three  cups  of  flour, 
one  cup  sour  milk,  one  teaspoon  baking  soda,  one  tablespoon  cinna- 
mon, one  teaspoon  ginger,  half  a  teaspoon  cloves,  half  a  teaspoon  nut- 
meg. 

KATE  MLNARIK. 

DELICIOUS  GINGER  BREAD— One  cup  of  granulated  sugar, 
add  two  tablespoons  of  molasses,  four  of  melted  butter,  one  even  tea- 
spoon of  salt,  half  teaspoon  of  cinnamon  and  a  teaspoon  of  mixed 
spices.  Stir  and  rub  well  together,  then  add  one  beaten  egg  and  one 
cup  of  sour  milk.  Sift  one  level  teaspoon  of  soda  with  two  cups  of 
flour,  add  to  other  ingredients  and  beat  about  two  minutes.  Then  turn 
into  coffee  cake  pan  and  bake  forty  minutes  in  slow  oven.  While  still 
warm  spread  with  plain  icing. 

BLANCHE  KAMMERER. 


76  PRAGUE    CHAPTER   BOOK   OF   RECIPES 


MOLASSES  CAKE— One  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter  or  half 
butter  and  lard,  one  well  beaten  egg,  one  cup  sour  milk  or  buttermilk, 
one  cup  molasses,  one  and  one-half  level  teaspoons  soda  sifted  with 
two  and  one-half  cups  flour.  Bake  in  two  layers  and  put  together 
with  any  desired  filling. 

MAMIE  J  IN  D  RICH. 


SOUR  CREAM  CAKE— One  cup  of  sugar,  one  egg,  five  table- 
spoons sour  milk  in  cup,  then  fill  with  sour  cream,  two  cups  flour, 
three-fourths  teaspoon  of  soda,  one-fourth  teaspoon  of  salt, 
one-fourth  teaspoon  of  cinnamon,  one-eighth  teaspoon  of  cloves.  Beat 
eggs  lightly,  acid  sugar  and  continue  beating,  then  add  sour  milk  and 
cream,  lastly  the  mixed  and  sifted  ingredients. 

MARIE  E.  TUREK. 


APPLE  SAUCE  CAKE— Cream  one  cup  of  sugar  with  one-half 
cup  butter,  dissolve  a  teaspoon  of  soda  in  a  little  hot  water  and  stir 
this  into  a  cupful  of  apple  sauce,  letting  it  foam,  add  one  and  one-third 
cups  of  sifted  flour  with  one  teaspoon  cloves  and  nutmeg.  Mix  well : 
add  one  cup  of  raisins  and  nuts.  Bake  in  loaf  in  moderate  oven  about 
fortv-five  minutes.    Use  white  icing. 

MAY  FRIED L. 


LEBKUCHEN — Seven  eggs,  one  cup  brown  sugar,  one  cup  mo- 
lasses, one  teaspoon  cinnamon,  one  teaspoon  salt,  one-half  teaspoon 
allspice,  one-fourth  teaspoon  nutmeg  grated,  one-fourth  pound  orange 
peel,  one-fourth  pound  citron,  one-half  pound  almonds,  one-half  pound 
sweet  chocolate,  two  and  one-half  cups  flour,  one  and  one-half  tea- 
spoons baking  powder,  two  cups  powdered  sugar,  a  little  lemon  juice. 
Separate  the  eggs,  reserving  the  whites  of  three  for  frosting.  Beat 
seven  yolks  and  four  whites  very  light,  add  the  sugar  and  beat  again ; 
add  molasses  and  spices,  the  chocolate  grated,  almonds  blanched  and 
grated,  citron  and  orange  peel  cut  fine,  and  the  flour  and  baking  pow- 
der. Spread  dough  one  and  one-half  inches  thick  in  well  greased  long 
pans,  with  well  floured  hands.  Bake  in  very  moderate  oven,  and 
before  removing  from  pans  cut  into  squares  and  ice  with  icing  as 
follows:  One  cup  confectionery  sugar,  two  tablespoons  boiling 
water,  and  flavor.    Beat  until  smooth. 

ANNA  KADLEC. 


PERNIK — Three-fourths  cup  of  sugar,  one  tablespoon  lard,  one 
tablespoon  butter,  two  eggs,  one  cup  of  sour  milk,  half  a  cup  of 
molasses,  two  cups  of  flour,  one  teaspoon  soda,  one  teaspoon  each 
cinnamon,  cloves  and  ginger,  a  little  salt.  Mix  in  the  order  given. 
Bake  in  a  loaf  pan,  one  and  one-fourth  hours,  in  a  moderate  oven. 

JOSEPHINE  G.  KLEISNER. 


PRAGUE    CHAPTER   BOOK   OF  RECIPES  77 

FRUIT  CAKE — Three  cups  of  flour  sifted  with  three  teaspoons 
of  baking  powder,  one-half  cup  of  butter  creamed  with  one  cup  of 
brown  sugar,  one  cup  of  molasses  and  three  eggs,  half  a  teaspoon  each 
of  allspice,  cloves,  cinnamon  and  nutmeg,  one  cup  each  of  seedless 
raisins,  currants,  citron,  figs  and  nuts.  Mix  your  fruit  day  before 
making.    Bake  in  slow  oven. 

ANNA  BROZ. 

FRUIT  CAKE — Two  scant  cups  butter  creamed  with  three  cups 
brown  sugar.  Add  nutmeg  grated,  one  tablespoon  cinnamon,  one 
teaspoon  each  of  cloves  and  mace.  Add  one-half  cup  molasses  and 
one-half  cup  sour  milk.  Stir  all  well,  then  add  six  beaten  yolks,  a  wine 
glass  of  brandy  or  fruit  juice,  and  four  cups  of  sifted  flour  alternately 
with  the  beaten  whites  of  six  eggs.  Dissolve  a  level  teaspoon  of 
baking  soda  in  a  little  hot  water  and  stir  in  thoroughly.  Add  one 
pound  raisins,  one  pound  currants  and  one-half  pound  citron  cut  small 
mixed  with  two  tablespoons  flour.  Bake  in  two  loaf  tins  in  moderate 
oven  two  hours.    Allow  to  cool  in  pans. 

ROSE  KERNER. 

FRUIT  CAKE — One  pound  seeded  raisins,  one  pound  seedless 
raisins,  one-half  cup  almonds  blanched  and  chopped,  one-half  cup 
walnuts  chopped,  one  cup  butter,  one  cup  sour  milk  or  cream,  one  and 
one-half  cups  brown  sugar,  four  eggs,  one-fourth  cup  each  of  orange 
peel  and  citron  chopped,  one  teaspoon  baking  soda  dissolved  in  milk, 
one  teaspoon  cinnamon,  one  teaspoon  cloves,  one-half  teaspoon  all- 
spice, one-half  teaspoon  mace,  three  and  one-half  cups  flour.  Bake 
three  hours  in  slow  oven.  This  cake  will  keep  for  months  if  kept  in 
a  covered  stone  crock. 

KATE  MLNARIK. 

PLAIN  FRUIT  CAKE— One-half  cup  butter,  one  cup  sugar, 
yolks  three  eggs  beaten,  one  cup  sour  cream,  one-half  cup  luke-warm 
water,  two  and  one-half  cups  flour,  one  teaspoon  cinnamon,  one-half 
cup  chopped  walnuts,  three-quarter  cup  seeded  raisins,  one  teaspoon 
baking  soda,  one  teaspoon  vanilla.  Method:  Cream  butter  and  sugar, 
add  yolks,  then  cinnamon  and  vanilla  then  sour  cream,  flour  and  one- 
half  cup  of  luke-warm  water  with  baking  soda  dissolved.  Last  of  all 
add  nuts  and  raisins,  you  may  add  a  few  figs  cut  fine.  Bake  in  a  loaf 
about  forty-five  minutes  in  moderate  oven.    Use  any  icing. 

MAY  FRIEDL. 

POOR  MAN'S  FRUIT  CAKE— Cream  cup  of  lard  or  drippings 
with  two  cups  of  sugar,  two  eggs,  one  cup  of  sour  milk,  three  cups  of 
flour,  one  teaspoon  of  cloves,  allspice,  cinnamon  and  nutmeg,  one 
pound  of  raisins,  one  teaspoon  of  baking  soda  in  a  cup  of  boiling  water 
or  one  cup  of  boiling  coffee  which  will  add  to  the  flavor  of  the  cake. 
Chopped  nuts,  citron  and  lemon  peel.    Bake  in  a  slow  oven. 

FLORA  V.  VOCKEL. 


78  PRAGUE    CHAPTER   BOOK   OF   RECIPES 

ENGLISH  FRUIT  CAKE— One  pound  butter,  nine  eggs,  one 
pound  brown  sugar,  one  pound  raisins,  one  pound  currants,  one-fourth 
pound  citron,  one-fourth  pound  almonds  blanched,  two  cups  sour 
cream,  three  cups  flour,  one  and  one-half  teaspoons  baking  soda  dis- 
solved in  a  little  warm  water.    Bake  in  loaf  tins  one  hour. 

MAMIE  J  IN  D  RICH. 

SOUR  CREAM  FRUIT  CAKE— One-half  cup  butter,  one  cup 
brown  sugar,  one-fourth  cup  molasses,  three  eggs,  one  and  one-half 
cup  raisins  cut  fine,  one  cup  walnuts  broken  coarse,  juice  and  rind  of 
one  orange,  one-fourth  teaspoon  mace,  one  teaspoon  cinnamon,  one- 
half  teaspoon  cloves,  one  level  teaspoon  soda,  dissolved  in  one  cup  sour 
cream,  two  cups  flour.    Bake  in  loaf. 

MARIE  PAIDAR. 

JIM  JAM  CAKE — Boil  together  for  five  minutes  two  cups  of 
water,  one  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  two  tablespoons  of  lard,  one  tea- 
spoon of  salt,  one  teaspoon  of  cinnamon,  one  teaspoon  of  allspice,  one 
box  raisins.  When  cool  add  three  cups  of  flour  with  one  teaspoon 
of  baking  soda.    Bake  one  hour  in  a  slow  oven. 

CARRIE  GLASS. 

PRUNE  CAKE — One  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  two  eggs, 
one-half  cup  sour  milk,  one-half  teaspoon  baking  soda,  one  cup  stewed 
prunes  cut  fine,  half  a  teaspoon  each  of  nutmeg,  allspice,  cloves  and 
cinnamon,  one  and  one-half  cups  flour,  one  teaspoon  baking  powder, 
cream  butter  and  sugar ;  add  beaten  eggs,  milk  with  soda  dissolved  in 
it ;  prunes,  and  finally  dry  ingredients  sifted  together.  Beat  well  and 
bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

JULIA  M.  FARA. 

RAISIN  NUT  CAKE — Cream  one-half  cup  butter  with  one  cup 
sugar.  Add  three  well  beaten  eggs,  one  cup  sour  cream,  two  cups  flour 
sifted  with  one-half  teaspoon  each  of  mace,  cinnamon  and  cloves  and 
one  teaspoon  baking  soda.  Stir  in  one-half  cup  raisins  and  one-half  cup 
each  of  walnuts  and  blanched  almonds  chopped.  Bake  in  tube  pan  in 
moderate  oven. 

EMILY  KERNER. 

DATE  WALNUT  CAKE— Beat  three  yolks,  add  three-quarters 
cup  sugar  and  beat  hard  until  creamy,  then  add  one-half  cup  flour 
sifted  with  one  and  one-half  teaspoons  baking  powder,  stir  together, 
and  the  beaten  whites  of  three  eggs,  fold  lightly,  and  add  one  pound 
dates  and  cup  walnut  meats  cut  fine.  Bake,  cut  in  squares  and  serve 
with  whipped  cream. 

MARY  JORDAN. 

DATE  CAKE — Cream  together  one  cup  of  sugar  and  one  table- 
spoon of  butter,  one  well  beaten  egg,  one  cup  of  hot  water,  one  cup  of 
chopped  dates,  then  add  one  and  a  half  cups  of  flour  mixed  with  one 
teaspoon  of  baking  soda  and  one  cup  of  chopped  nuts.  Bake  one  and  a 
quarter  hours. 

JOSEPHINE  G.  KLEISNER. 


PRAGUE    CHAPTER   BOOK   OF   RECIPES  79 

DATE  CAKE — Seven  eggs,  two  teaspoons  baking  powder,  one 
cup  sugar,  one  pound  dates,  one-half  pound  nuts.  Beat  the  whites 
stiff,  add  sugar  gradually,  then  the  beaten  yolks.  Mix  the  baking 
powder  with  the  nuts.  Bake  one  hour.  Serve  with  whipped  cream  on 
top. 

ROSE  W ASK A. 

DATE  CAKE — One  cup  dates  cut  in  small  pieces,  one  cup  sugar, 
one  tablespoon  butter,  one  egg,  one  cup  boiling  water,  one  teaspoon 
baking  soda,  one  teaspoon  vanilla,  one  and  one-half  cups  flour,  one-half 
cup  walnuts  chopped  fine,  pinch  of  salt.  Sprinkle  baking  soda  over 
dates  and  pour  over  the  boiling  water  and  let  cool.  Cream,  sugar  and 
butter,  add  egg  well  beaten,  salt,  flavoring,  dates,  flour  and  nuts. 

MAY  JURENA. 

DATE  CAKE — One  and  one-fourth  cups  walnut  meats  in  halves, 
one  pound  dates,  one  cup  sugar,  four  yolks,  four  whites,  one  cup  flour, 
one  heaping  teaspoon  baking  powder.  Remove  stones  from  dates  and 
leave  whole,  add  nuts,  sift  over  them  the  sugar,  beat  yolks  and  mix 
with  dates,  nuts  and  sugar.  Beat  whites,  add  to  this  mixture,  then  add 
flour  sifted  with  baking  powder.  Mix  thoroughly.  Line  two  bread 
tins  with  buttered  wax  paper,  pour  in  mixture  and  bake  three-quarters 
of  an  hour  in  slow  oven. 

MARIE  FOUCEK. 

DATE  CAKE — Three  eggs  well  beaten,  add  one  cup  of  powdered 
sugar,  beat  again,  then  one  tablespoon  of  warm  water,  one  cup  of  flour, 
one  teaspoon  of  baking  powder,  one  package  of  dates  and  one  cup  of 
nuts  chopped  real  fine.    Bake  in  flat  loaf. 

MILADA  R.  KOREN. 

DARK  CAKE — One  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  molasses,  one-half 
cup  sour  milk,  one-half  cup  butter,  two  and  one-half  cups  flour,  one 
cup  raisins,  two  cups  currants,  one-fourth  pound  citron,  three  eggs, 
one-half  teaspoon  each  of  soda,  cloves,  cinnamon,  nutmeg  and  allspice. 

MAY  JURENA. 

COFFEE  CAKE — One  cup  butter,  two  cups  powdered  sugar, 
four  eggs,  one-half  cup  chopped  almonds,  one  cup  grated  chocolate,  two 
cups  flour,  two  teaspoons  baking  powder  and  one  cup  strong  coffee. 
Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  beaten  yolks,  mix  thoroughly,  then  the 
flour  mixed  with  baking  powder,  coffee,  chocolate,  almonds  and,  lastly, 
the  stiffly  beaten  whites  of  four  eggs.     Bake  in  moderate  oven. 

MAY  JURENA. 

MOCHA  CAKE^ — One  heaping  tablespoon  of  butter  creamed 
with  three-quarters  cup  of  sugar,  add  one  yolk,  cream  again,  then  add 
three  quarters  cup  of  milk,  quarter  teaspoon  salt,  half  a  teaspoon 
vanilla,  one  cup  of  flour,  sifted  with  one  teaspoon  baking  powder,  three 
times,  melt  two  squares  of  chocolate,  mix  well  together,  then  fold  in 
the  beaten  white  of  an  egg.    Bake  in  two  layers.    Use  chocolate  filling. 

MARY  POCH. 


80  PRAGUE    CHAPTER   BOOK   OF  RECIPES 

MAHOGANY  CAKE— Cream  half  a  cup  of  butter  with  one  and 
a  half  cups  sugar,  three  eggs,  cream  again,  half  a  cup  of  milk,  with 
one  teaspoon  of  soda,  two  cups  of  flour  sifted  with  two  teaspoons  of 
cream  of  tartar;  boil  half  cup  bitter  chocolate  in  half  cup  of  milk  until 
thick ;  when  cool  add  to  batter,  flavor  with  teaspoon  almond  extract 
and  mix  together.    Bake  in  loaf  or  layer  tins,  in  moderate  oven. 

MARY  POCH. 

MAHOGANY  CAKE— Part  one :  Boil  together  half  cup  of  milk 
with  half  a  cup  of  bitter  chocolate  until  thick.  Part  two:  One  and  a 
half  cups  of  sugar,  half  a  cup  of  butter,  half  a  cup  of  milk,  three  eggs, 
two  cups  of  flour,  one  teaspoon  soda  in  a  little  boiling  water,  one  tea- 
spoon baking  powder.  Mix  part  one  with  part  two.  Bake  in  layers. 
Filling:  One  and  a  half  tablespoons  of  butter,  one  and  a  half  cups 
powdered  sugar,  one  teaspoon  milk  and  one  teaspoon  vanilla,  and  beat 
well.    Spread  between  layers  and  on  top. 

ANNA  ROUBIK. 

SOUR  CREAM  CHOCOLATE  LAYER  CAKE— Yolks  of  four 
eggs,  whites  of  three,  one  and  one-third  cups  sugar,  one  cup  thick  sour 
cream,  one  teaspoon  soda,  pinch  of  salt,  two  and  one-half  cups  flour, 
two  squares  chocolate.  Beat  the  yolks  and  the  sugar  until  very  light. 
Melt  the  chocolate  in  part  of  the  cream  over  a  fire.  Let  cool  and  then 
add  it  to  the  rest  of  the  cream.  Sift  the  soda  into  the  flour  and  add 
alternately  with  cream  to  the  yolks  and  sugar.  Flavor  and  fold  in  the 
stiffly  beaten  whites.    Bake  in  two  layers. 

MARIE  E.  TUREK. 

CHOCOLATE  LAYER  CAKE— Cream  one-half  cup  butter,  one 
cup  sugar,  add  yolks  of  two  eggs.  Beat  well.  Add  one-half  cup  milk, 
one  and  one-half  cups  flour  sifted  v/ith  one  and  one-half  teaspoons 
baking  powder,  one  scmare  bitter  chocolate  melted,  and  lastly  the 
whites  of  two  eggs  beaten  stiff.    Bake  in  two  layers. 

BLANCHE  KAMMERER. 

BROWN  FOOD  CAKE — Three  eggs  well  beaten,  one  and  one- 
half  cups  sugar,  three-fourths  cup  melted  butter,  two  cups  sour  milk 
into  which  has  been  dissolved  one  teaspoon  of  baking  soda,  three 
cups  flour,  three-fourths  cup  of  chopped  nuts,  four  tablespoons  cocoa. 
Bake  in  layers. 

MAMIE  IINDRICH. 

FUDGE  LAYER  CAKE— Boil  half  a  cup  of  grated  chocolate, 
half  a  cup  of  water  until  thick  as  cream,  cream  one  and  one-half  cups  of 
sugar,  two-thirds  cup  of  butter,  yolks  of  three  eggs  well  beaten,  add 
two-thirds  cup  milk.  Add  the  chocolate,  two  cups  of  flour,  two  tea- 
spoons baking  powder,  two  cups  chopped  nuts,  and  last  the  beaten 
whites  of  eggs.     Bake  in  two  layers. 

JULIA  M.  FAR  A. 


PRAGUE    CHAPTER   BOOK   OF   RECIPES  81 

DEVIL  FOOD — Cream  one-half  cup  butter  with  two  cups  sugar, 
add  yolks  of  five  eggs  well  beaten,  two-thirds  cup  Bunte  cocoa  or 
grated  chocolate,  three  teaspoons  vanilla,  one  cup  sour  milk,  two  cups 
flour  and  one  level  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  a  little  hot  water,  and 
last  the  beaten  whites  of  five  eggs.  Can  be  used  as  a  layer  or  loaf 
cake.  White  Frosting — One-third  cup  butter  creamed,  add  one-half 
cup  powdered  sugar,  three  tablespoons  cream  and  mix  thoroughly. 
Then  add  a  little  vanilla  and  enough  powdered  sugar  to  spread  easily. 
Chocolate  Frosting — Two  squares  grated  chocolate,  yolk  of  one  egg, 
one  tablespoon  butter  and  quarter  cup  milk.  Boil  until  thick,  set  aside 
to  cool  and  add  enough  powdered  sugar  until  quite  thick. 

MILADA  R.  KOREN. 

DEVIL'S  FOOD  CAKE— First  part:  One  cup  of  grated  choco- 
late, one  cup  of  brown  sugar,  half  a  cup  of  milk,  heat  well  but  do  not 
boil.  Second  part :  Cream  half  cup  of  butter  with  one  cup  of  brown 
sugar,  add  three  beaten  yolks,  mix  well,  then  add  one-half  cup  of  milk 
and  two  cups  of  flour  sifted  with  one  teaspoon  of  baking  powder  and 
last  the  beaten  whites.    Bake  in  layers. 

JULIA  M.  FARA. 

DEVIL'S  FOOD— CUSTARD— One  cup  of  grated  unsweetened 
chocolate,  one  cup  of  brown  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  sweet  milk,  yolk 
of  one  egg,  teaspoon  of  vanilla,  stir  together  and  boil  slowly  until 
thick,  set  aside  to  cool. 

CAKE  PART — One  cup  of. brown  sugar,  one-half  cup  of  butter, 
yolks  of  two  eggs,  creamed  together,  add  one-half  cup  of  milk,  two 
cups  of  flour,  whites  of  eggs  beaten  and  stir  well,  then  add  the  custard, 
stir  again  and  finally  one  level  teaspoon  of  soda  dissolved  in  very  little 
hot  water,  mix  thoroughly  and  bake  in  slow  oven,  in  three  layers. 
For  the  filling  make  a  boiled  frosting,  into  two-thirds  of  it  add  one 
cup  of  nuts  chopped  fine  and  one  cup  of  raisins  or  figs  chopped,  stir 
into  paste,  put  between  layers  and  remaining  frosting  on  top. 

BLANCHE  KAMMERER. 

GRAHAM  CRACKER  CAKE— Cream  half  a  cup  of  butter  with 
one  cup  of  sugar,  four  beaten  yolks,  one  and  one-half  cups  of  milk. 
Roll  fine  one  pound  of  graham  crackers,  mix  with  two  teaspoons  of 
baking  powder,  add  half  cup  of  chopped  walnuts  and  half  cup  of 
almonds.     Bake  in  layers. 

BUTTER  FROSTING— One  tablespoon  of  butter,  two  table- 
spoons of  milk,  one  pound  of  powdered  sugar,  one  teaspoon  of  vanilla. 

ANTONIA  STRAKA. 

GRAHAM  CAKE— Cream  half  a  cup  of  butter  with  three-fourths 
cup  of  sugar,  three  eggs  three-fourths  cup  of  milk,  twenty-six  Graham 
crackers  rolled  fine,  one  and  a  half  teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  and 
a  teaspoon  vanilla.  Bake  in  layers.  Filling — Two  cups  of  confec- 
tioners' sugar,  four  tablespoons  of  cream  and  half  a  cup  of  slightly 
melted  butter. 

CARRIE  GLASS. 


82  PRAGUE    CHAPTER   BOOK   OF   RECIPES 

GRAHAM  CRACKER  CAKE— Cream  one  cup  of  sugar  with 
one-half  cup  of  lard  and  two  eggs,  roll  fine  fifteen  Graham  crackers, 
add  to  this  mixture  one  cup  of  milk,  one  cup  of  flour  sifted  with  two 
teaspoons  of  baking  powder  and  one-half  cup  of  chopped  walnuts. 
Bake  in  two  layers.  Filling — Three  tablespoons  of  cocoa,  three  table- 
spoons of  cream,  three  tablespoons  of  butter,  one  cup  confectionery 
sugar,  one  teaspoon  vanilla.    If  thin  add  more  sugar. 

MARY  POCH. 

GRAHAM  CRACKER  CAKE— Five  eggs  beaten  separately,  add 
two  cups  sugar  to  the  yolks,  one  and  one-half  cups  graham  crackers 
rolled,  one  teaspoon  baking  powder,  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  one  cup 
chopped  nuts.    Bake  in  layers. 

BUTTERSCOTCH  FILLING— Four  tablespoons  butter,  one- 
half  cup  sugar,  two  tablespoons  syrup,  one-half  tablespoon  vinegar, 
one  tablespoon  boiling  water,  and  one  tablespoon  white  corn  syrup. 
Put  all  in  saucepan,  stir  until  sugar  is  dissolved,  and  boil  until  it  forms 
a  soft  ball  when  dropped  in  cold  water.  Serve  cake  broken  in  sherbet 
cups.    Cover  with  filling  hot  or  cold  and  a  spoon  of  whipped  cream. 

ALICE  KAMMERER. 

GRAHAM  CRACKER  CAKE— One  tablespoon  butter,  one  and 
one-fourth  cups  sugar,  two  eggs  beaten  separately,  one  and  one-half 
cups  sour  milk  in  which  one  teaspoon  of  soda  has  been  dissolved,  one 
box  graham  crackers  rolled  fine,  one  teaspoon  vanilla.  Bake  in  two 
layers.  Put  together  with  butter  or  pineapple  filling  or  whipped 
cream. 

CECELIA  BART  A. 

MARSHMALLOW  CAKE— Cream  half  a  cup  of  butter  with  a 
tablespoon  of  hot  water  and  two  cups  of  sugar,  add  one  cup  of  cold 
water,  two  cups  of  flour  with  two  teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  and 
last  the  whites  of  eight  well  beaten  eggs. 

JULIA  M.  PARA. 

WHITE  NUT  LOAF  CAKE— One-half  cup  butter,  one  cup 
sugar,  three-quarters  cup  milk,  two  cups  flour,  one  teaspoon  vanilla, 
two  teaspoons  baking  powder,  three-quarters  cup  of  chopped  nuts, 
whites  of  three  eggs  well  beaten.  Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  milk 
and  flour  alternately,  sift  powder  with  flour  then  flavor,  then  nuts,  and 
last  of  all  add  whites  of  eggs.    Bake  in  a  loaf  about  forty  minutes. 

MAY  FRIEDL. 

SILVER  CAKE — One  and  one-half  cups  sugar  creamed  with 
half  a  cup  of  butter,  three-quarters  cup  of  milk,  two  cups  flour  sifted 
with  three  teaspoons  baking  powder,  the  whites  of  eight  eggs  beaten 
stiff  and  teaspoon  extract  of  almond.    Bake  in  loaf  for  one  hour. 

JULIA  DENK. 


PRAGUE   CHAPTER   BOOK   OF   RECIPES  83 

WHITE  CAKE — Whites  of  four  eggs,  scant  one-half  cup  butter, 
heaping  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  milk,  two  level  cups  flour,  scant  two 
teaspoons  baking  powder.    Bake  in  small  loaf. 

BLANCHE  KAMMERER. 

WHITE  LOAF  CAKE— Half  a  cup  of  butter  creamed  with  one 
cup  of  sugar,  two-thirds  cup  of  milk,  two  cups  of  flour,  three  teaspoons 
of  baking  powder,  beaten  whites  of  three  eggs,  pinch  of  salt,  one  tea- 
spoon of  lemon  extract.    Bake  in  moderate  oven. 

JULIA  DENK. 

GOLD  CAKE — Cream  three  level  tablespoons  of  butter,  with 
three-quarters  cup  of  sugar,  yolks  of  three  eggs,  half  a  cup  of  milk,  one 
and  a  half  cups  of  flour  sifted  with  three  teaspoons  of  baking  powder, 
add  a  teaspoon  of  vanilla  and  a  little  salt. 

JULIA  DENK. 

GOLD  LOAF — One-third  cup  butter,  three-fourths  cup  sugar, 
one  and  one-half  cups  pastry  flour,  one-fourth  teaspoon  soda,  one-half 
teaspoon  cream  of  tartar,  one-third  cup  sweet  milk,  flavor  to  taste, 
yolks  of  four  eggs.  Mix  and  sift  flour  and  soda,  cream  the  butter, 
add  the  sugar  and  beat  thoroughly ;  beat  yolks  with  Dover  beater, 
when  half  beaten  add  cream  of  tartar  and  beat  to  stiff  froth ;  add  this 
to  the  creamed  butter  and  sugar  and  stir  well.  Then  add  milk  and 
flour  alternately  and  the  flavoring,  stir  thoroughly.  Place  in  greased 
pan  in  a  moderate  oven  and  bake  from  twenty  to  thirty  minutes. 

MARIE  PAIDAR. 

MEASURED  POUND  CAKE— Cream  two  cups  of  butter,  with 
three  cups  of  sugar,  yolks  of  nine  eggs  well  beaten,  one  teaspoon 
almond  extract ;  sift  five  cups  of  flour  with  two  teaspoons  baking 
powder.  Add  alternately  with  one  and  a  half  cups  of  milk,  and  last 
beaten  whites  of  nine  eggs.  Bake  in  two  loaves  in  a  moderately  hot 
oven  for  one  hour.  rs_ 

JOSEPHINE  G.  KLEISNER.  "    < 

POUND  CAKE — One  pound  sugar,  one-half  pound  butter,  six 
eggs,  beaten  separately,  one  pound  flour,  sifted  twice,  with  one  tea- 
spoon baking  powder,  one-half  cup  milk,  a  little  grated  nutmeg,  and 
one  teaspoon  vanilla,  one  wineglass  brandy.  Bake  in  loaf  one  hour 
and  twenty  minutes. 

CECELIA  BART  A. 

CHEESE  CAKE — Sift  one  large  cup  of  flour  with  a  heaping 
teaspoon  of  baking  powder,  rub  into  this  a  tablespoon  of  cold  butter, 
add  a  well  beaten  egg  and  a  teaspoon  of  sugar,  mix  together  quickly 
with  enough  milk  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Roll  out  as  when  making  pie 
crust  and  line  two  pie  tins.  Fill  with  the  following  mixture :  One 
pound  of  cottage  cheese  rubbed  smooth  with  the  back  of  a  spoon,  three 
well  beaten  eggs,  one  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  milk,  one  cup  of  cream, 
one-eighth  teaspoon  of  mace.  Mix  well  and  put  into  open  crusts. 
Bake  forty-five  minutes  in  moderate  oven. 

MARIE  PAIDAR. 


84  PRAGUE    CHAPTER   BOOK   OF  RECIPES 

CHEESE  TORTE — Grate  one  package  Zwiebach,  mix  with  one 
cup  sugar,  one-half  teaspoon  cinnamon  and  pour  over  this  one-fourth 
pound  melted  butter.  Mix  well.  Reserve  one  cup  of  this  mixture. 
Filling — Four  eggs  beaten  together,  one  cup  sugar,  two  pounds  cottage 
cheese,  one  bottle  cream,  one  teaspoon  vanilla  or  one-fourth  teaspoon 
mace,  two  tablespoons  flour.  Mix  well.  Spread  the  Zwiebach  mixture 
on  bottom  and  sides  of  spring  form.  Pour  in  cheese  mixture,  and 
spread  remaining  cup  of  Zwiebach  over  top.  Bake  one  hour  and 
twenty  minutes  in  very  slow  oven. 

MARIE  E.  J  IRS  A. 
ALICE  KAMMERER. 

JELLY  ROLL — Stir  in  one  direction  for  five  minutes  six  yolks, 
add  seven-eighths  cup  sugar  and  stir  seven  minutes  longer,  then  add 
three-quarters  cup  pastry  flour  sifted  before  measuring.  Add  a  pinch 
of  salt  to  four  whites,  beat  until  stiff  and  fold  into  the  above  mixture. 
Bake  in  a  large  dripping  pan,  buttered  and  floured,  in  a  moderate  oven 
from  ten  to  fifteen  minutes.  Turn  out  on  dampened  towel,  spread 
with  jelly  or  pineapple  or  orange  filling,  roll  quickly  and  sprinkle  with 
powdered  sugar. 

PINEAPPLE  FILLING — Grate  one  pineapple,  sweeten  to  taste, 
add  one  teaspoon  cornstarch  and  boil  eight  minutes.    Let  cool. 

ORANGE  FILLING— Grated  rind  of  one-half  orange,  one  table- 
spoon lemon  juice,  one-quarter  cup  orange  juice,  one  and  one-half 
tablespoons  flour,  one-half  cup  sugar,  one  egg  slightly  beaten.  Cook 
in  double  boiler  until  it  thickens. 

MAMIE  IINDRICH. 

LAYER  CAKE — One-half  pound  butter,  two  cups  sugar,  five 
eggs,  one  cup  milk,  one  teaspoon  vanilla,  three  and  one-fourth  cups 
Swansdown  cake  flour,  two  and  one-half  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

CREAM  FROSTING— Two  tablespoons  melted  butter,  four 
tablespoons  cream,  one  teaspoon  vanilla.  Add  confectioner's  sugar  to 
make  consistency  for  spreading. 

CHOCOLATE  FROSTING— Two  squares  Baker's  bitter  choco- 
late cut  very  fine,  yolk  of  one  egg,  one-third  cup  milk,  one  teaspoon 
vanilla,  small  piece  butter.  Stir  over  slow  fire  until  thick,  then  add 
confectioners'  sugar  to  make  of  spreading  consistency. 

ROSE  WASKA. 

ORANGE  LAYER  CAKE — Five  yolks,  two  cups  powdered 
sugar,  juice  of  one  orange,  grated  rind  of  one  orange,  two  cups  flour, 
one  teaspoon  baking  powder,  whites  of  three  eggs,  one-half  cup  water. 
Beat  yolks  until  thick  and  creamy,  add  sugar  and  beat  again.  Then 
add  water,  orange  juice  and  part  of  the  grated  rind  and  the  flour  sifted 
three  times  with  the  baking  powder.  Lastly  fold  in  the  beaten  whites 
of  three  eggs;  bake  in  layers  in  a  moderate  oven.  Icing:  Whites  of 
two  eggs  beaten  stiff,  powdered  sugar  to  spread  and  the  rest  of  the 
grated  rind  of  orange. 

MARIE  PAIDAR. 


PRAGUE    CHAPTER   BOOK   OF   RECIPES  85 

PLAIN  LAYER  CAKE— One-half  cup  butter,  one  cup  sugar, 
two  eggs,  one-half  cup  milk,  one  and  three-fourths  cups  pastry  flour, 
two  teaspoons  baking  powder,  flavor  to  taste.  Cream  butter,  add 
sugar  gradually,  then  the  well  beaten  yolks.  Now  beat  until  extremely 
light.  Sift  baking  powder  into  flour  after  measuring,  add  alternately 
with  milk.  Whip  whites  until  stiff,  add  mixture  and  stir  well.  Bake 
in  two  layers. 

MARIE  E.  TUREK. 

QUICK  LAYER  CAKE— Sift  together  one  and  one-half  cups  of 
flour,  one  cup  of  sugar  and  two  teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  break 
two  eggs  in  cup,  fill  with  milk,  add  to  above,  also  four  tablespoons 
melted  butter  and  teaspoon  of  vanilla,  stir  hard  two  minutes  and  bake 
in  two  lavers. 

BLANCHE  KAMMERER. 

ORANGE  CAKE — Cream  together  half  a  cup  of  butter,  two  cups 
of  sugar,  add  five  beaten  yolks  and  cream  again.  Add  half  a  cup  of 
cold  water,  rind  and  juice  of  one  orange,  two  and  a  half  cups  of  flour, 
sift  with  two  teaspoons  of  baking  powder  three  times,  then  the  beaten 
whites  of  five  eggs  and  fold  in.    Bake  in  layer  tins  in  moderate  oven.. 

MARY  POCH. 

MERINGUE  CAKE— One-half  cup  butter,  one-half  cup  sugar, 
yolks  of  four  eggs,  five  tablespoons  milk,  one  cup  flour,  one  teaspoon 
baking  powder.  Bake  in  two  layers  and  before  putting  in  oven  spread 
the  beaten  whites  of  four  eggs  mixed  with  one  cup  sugar  over  each 
layer  and  bake  in  moderate  oven  twenty  minutes.  Filling  for  same: 
One-half  cup  sugar,  one  cup  milk,  one  egg,  three  teaspoons  cornstarch 
dissolved  in  a  little  cold  milk,  juice  of  one  lemon.  Cook  in  double 
boiler.    When  cool  spread  between  layers. 

MARIE  PAIDAR. 

BUTTER  CAKE— Half  a  pound  of  sweet  butter,  half  a  pound  of 
powdered  sugar,  two  cups  of  flour,  two  teaspoons  baking  powder,  five 
eggs,  rind  of  a  lemon.  Cream  butter  and  sugar  very  light.  Add  one 
egg  at  a  time,  stirring  each  five  minutes.  Sift  flour  and  powder  three 
times,  add  lemon  rind  and  beat  very  lightly.  Bake  in  two  layer  cakes. 
Delicious  with  peaches  and  whipped  cream.    Also  nice  as  loaf  cake. 

ANNA  KADLEC. 

CREAM  CAKE — Beat  two  eggs,  one  cup  of  sugar,  two  cups  flour, 
two  teaspoons  baking  powder,  one  cup  of  sweet  cream,  flavor.  Filling 
— One  pound  powdered  sugar,  six  tablespoons  of  cream,  two  table- 
spoons butter,  little  vanilla. 

JULIA  DENK. 

BANANA  CAKE — Cream  two  teacups  sugar  with  one-fourth 
pound  butter,  add  four  small  bananas,  mashed  fine,  two  beaten  eggs, 
stir  well,  then  add  one  cup  sour  milk  or  cream  in  which  one  level  tea- 
spoon soda  is  dissolved,  two  teacups  flour,  and  last,  one  cup  nut  meats 
chopped  fine.  Bake  in  loaf  or  three  layers  and  put  together  with  any 
desired  filling. 

MARIE  LUCAS. 


86  PRAGUE    CHAPTER   BOOK   OF  RECIPES 

IDEAL  CAKE — One-half  cup  butter  creamed  with  one  cup  sugar, 
two  eggs  beaten  separately,  one-half  cup  milk,  one  heaping  teaspoon 
baking  powder,  one  and  one-half  cups  flour  sifted  three  times.  Cream 
butter  and  sugar,  add  yolks  beaten  then  flour  and  milk  alternately, 
then  fold  in  whites.  Bake  in  shallow  pan  in  a  moderate  oven.  Cover 
with  any  desired  icing. 

MAY  FRIEDL. 
CECELIA  BART  A. 

COCOANUT  CAKE — Cream  one-half  cup  butter,  add  gradually 
one  and  one-half  cups  granulated  sugar,  one  teaspoon  lemon  juice, 
grated  rind  one-half  lemon,  one  cup  milk  alternately  with  two  cups 
sifted  flour,  then  one-fourth  cup  flour  sifted  with  four  level  teaspoons 
baking  powder,  and  then  the  beaten  whites  of  five  or  six  eggs.  Bake 
in  two  large  or  three  small  layers.  Filling  for  same — Cream  two  table- 
spoons butter,  add  one  tablespoon  lemon  juice,  four  tablespoons  cream, 
one  teaspoon  vanilla,  and  enough  confectioners'  sugar  to  spread. 
Sprinkle  with  fresh  shredded  cocoanut. 

MARIE  PAIDAR. 

LADY  BALTIMORE  CAKE— One  and  a  half  pounds  sugar, 
one  and  one-fourth  pounds  butter,  one  and  one-half  pounds  flour,  one 
and  one-half  tumblers  of  water,  three  eggs,  one  teaspoon  baking 
powder.  Cream  the  sugar  and  butter  to  a  cream,  add  one  egg  at  a 
time,  stirring  vigorously ;  add  one-half  of  the  flour,  then  the  water, 
then  the  remainder  of  the  flour  with  baking  powder.  Flavor  with 
vanilla.  This  makes  two  three-layer  cakes.  Filling — Dissolve  three 
cups  sugar  in  one  cup  boiling  water,  cook  until  it  threads,  then  pour 
it  over  the  well  beaten  whites  of  three  eggs,  stirring  constantly.  To 
this  add  one  cup  chopped  pecans,  one  cup  chopped  raisins  and  figs  cut 
fine. 

MARY  JORDAN. 

BURNT  SUGAR  CAKE— Burn  one-half  cup  of  sugar  to  a  good 
brown,  add  quarter  cup  of  hot  water  carefully  and  boil  a  few  minutes. 
Use  this  syrup  as  flavoring. 

CAKE  PART — Cream  one-half  cup  of  butter  with  one  and  one- 
half  cups  of  sugar,  add  four  eggs,  reserving  whites  of  two  for  frosting, 
beat  thoroughly,  add  one  cup  of  cold  water,  two  and  one-half  cups  of 
flour  sifted  with  two  teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  one  teaspoon  of 
vanilla  and  three  teaspoons  of  burnt  sugar,  mix  well  and  bake  in  three 
layers. 

FROSTING — Boil  one  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar  with  one-half 
cup  of  water  until  a  drop  in  cold  water  is  quite  firm,  pour  over  beaten 
whites  of  the  two  eggs,  beating  constantly,  add  one  teaspoon  of 
vanilla,  three  of  burnt  sugar  and  beat  until  thick  enough  to  spread 
between  layers  and  on  top. 

BLANCHE  KAMMERER. 


PRAGUE   CHAPTER   BOOK   OF   RECIPES  87 

APPLE  FILLING  FOR  CAKES— Pare  and  grate  two  apples, 
add  one  cup  sugar,  rind  and  juice  of  one  lemon  and  one  egg.  Stir  well 
and  boil  until  it  thickens.    Cool  and  spread  between  layers. 

BLANCHE  KAMMERER. 

COCOANUT  FILLING— One  egg,  one-half  cup  sugar,  one  table- 
spoon flour  and  one  cup  milk  boiled  together,  then  add  one-half  pack- 
age grated  cocoanut  and  vanilla.    When  cool  put  between  layers. 

BLANCHE  KAMMERER. 


88  PRAGUE    CHAPTER   BOOK   OF  RECIPES 

SMALL  CAKES,  COOKIES  AND 
DOUGHNUTS 

DATE  COOKIES — One-half  cup  butter,  one  cup  brown  sugar, 
two  eggs  beaten,  one-half  teaspoon  cinnamon,  two  tablespoons  sour 
cream,  one  teaspoon  soda,  one  cup  chopped  dates.  Flour  to  roll. 
Cream  sugar  with  butter,  add  beaten  eggs,  sour  cream  with  soda  dis- 
solved in  it,  cinnamon  and  the  chopped  dates  rolled  in  flour.  Add  flour 
to  make  a  stiff  dough.    Roll,  cut  and  bake. 

JULIA  M.  EAR  A. 

ALMOND  COOKIES  (PRACNI)— One-half  pound  butter,  one- 
half  pound  sugar,  two  eggs,  one-half  pound  almonds,  chopped  fine, 
grated  rind  of  one  lemon,  one  teaspoon  ground  cloves,  two  teaspoons 
cinnamon.  Cream  butter  and  sugar  until  very  light,  then  add  the  eggs 
and  beat  well.  Add  the  almonds,  lemon,  and  sift  flour  with  cinnamon 
and  cloves  and  beat  well.  Press  into  cookie  form  very  thin  and  bake 
in  hot  oven.    Will  keep  indefinitely. 

ANNA  KADLEC. 

ALMOND  COOKIES— Three  cups  flour  sifted,  three-fourths  cup 
granulated  sugar,  twenty-five  almonds  (not  blanched)  grated.  Mix 
and  work  in  four  ounces  of  butter  and  five  ounces  of  lard.  Add  two 
yolks  and  mix  to  a  smooth  dough.  Shape  into  balls  size  of  walnut  and 
press  with  thumb.  Put  on  ungreased  pans  and  bake  in  moderate  oven 
to  a  pale  pink.  Pick  up  carefully  with  knife  and  place  on  platter 
sprinkled  with  powdered  sugar,  and  put  powdered  sugar  on  top. 

BLANCHE  KAMMERER. 

CHOCOLATE  ALMOND  COOKIES— Two  cups  of  sugar,  one 
cup  butter  creamed,  add  two  eggs  and  beat  well,  then  add  teaspoon 
vanilla,  teaspoon  cinnamon,  one-half  teaspoon  cloves,  one-fourth 
pound  bitter  chocolate  grated,  two  cups  flour  sifted  with  two  teaspoons 
baking  powder  and  one-half  pound  almonds  blanched  and  chopped 
fine.  Pat  out  dough  one-half  inch  thick,  cut  with  fancy  cookie  cutter 
and  bake  slowly. 

BLANCHE  KAMMERER. 

SOUR  MILK  COOKIES— Cream  one  and  one-half  cups  of  sugar 
with  two-thirds  cup  of  butter  or  lard,  add  one  egg,  scant  cup  sour 
milk,  two  tablespoons  of  water,  one  teaspoon  soda  sifted  with  four 
large  cups  flour,  flavor  to  taste.  Roll  out  one-fourth  inch  thick.  Cut 
out  and  place  in  greased  tin.  Moisten  top  with  milk  and  sprinkle  with 
sugar.    Bake  in  moderate  oven. 

ROSE  KERNER. 

GINGER  COOKIES — One  cup  brown  sugar,  one  cup  molasses, 
one  cup  shortening,  one  scant  cup  boiling  coffee,  two  small  teaspoons 
ginger,  one  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  coffee.  Flour  to  make  soft 
dough.  Roll  out  on  floured  board  one-fourth  inch  thick,  place  on 
buttered  tins,  sprinkle  with  sugar,  and  bake  in  moderate  oven. 

MARIE  PAIDAR. 


PRAGUE    CHAPTER   BOOK   OF   RECIPES  89 

OATMEAL  COOKIES— One-half  cup  shortening,  one  cup  brown 
sugar,  two  eggs,  one  cup  sour  milk,  in  which  one-half  teaspoon  of  bak- 
ing soda  has  been  dissolved,  two  and  one-fourth  cups  flour,  one  tea- 
spoon baking  powder,  one  teaspoon  cinnamon,  one-half  cup  cocoanut, 
one  and  one-half  cups  oatmeal,  one-half  cup  walnuts  chopped,  one-half 
cup  raisins  cut  small. 

KATE  MLNARIK. 

OATMEAL  COOKIES— One  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter, 
one-half  cup  lard,  two  eggs,  one-half  cup  milk,  two  cups  oatmeal, 
one  teaspoon  cinnamon,  one  teaspoon  vanilla,  one-half  cup  chopped 
nuts,  one-half  cup  chopped  raisins,  one  teaspoon  baking  powder,  one- 
half  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  milk,  enough  flour  to  make  a  stiff  bat- 
ter.    Drop  by  teaspoon  on  greased  pan. 

ANNA  ROUBIK. 

HONEY  COOKIES — One  pound  honey  (one  good  cup  equals 
one  pound).  Boil  a  few  minutes  then  remove  from  fire  and  while 
still  hot  stir  into  it  one  pound  sugar  and  one  and  three-fourths  pounds 
flour.  When  mixture  is  lukewarm  add  five  well-beaten  eggs  and  stir 
or  knead  thoroughly,  after  which  you  set  it  aside  until  the  next  day. 
Then  add  one  teaspoon  each  of  allspice,  cinnamon  and  cloves,  and 
two  teaspoons  soda  dissolved  in  a  little  hot  water.  Work  well,  roll  out, 
cut  and  bake.  One  cup  of  chopped  nuts  added  greatly  improves  the 
cookies  but  they  are  very  good  without  the  nuts.  This  makes  a  great 
number  of  cookies.     (There  is  no  butter  or  lard  used.) 

MILADA  R.  KOREN. 

FILLED  COOKIES— One-half  cup  melted  butter,  one  cup  sugar, 
one  egg,  one-half  cup  sweet  milk,  three  and  one-half  cups  flour,  one 
spoon  soda,  two  teaspoons  cream  of  tartar,  two  teaspoons  vanilla. 
Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  egg,  well  beaten,  milk,  vanilla  and  flour 
sifted  with  cream  of  tartar  and  soda.  Mix,  form  dough  into  a  ball  and 
let  chill.  Roll  on  floured  board  with  a  floured  rolling  pin  as  thin  as 
possible,  using  part  of  the  dough  at  a  time.  Cut  with  small  round 
cookie  cutter  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  When  cool  spread  filling 
between  two  cookies  and  press  edges  together.  Filling  for  Cookies — 
One  cup  chopped  seedless  raisins,  one-half  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup 
hot  water,  one  teaspoon  flour.    Cook  until  thick  and  let  cool. 

MARY  HAISMAN. 

SUGAR  COOKIES— One  scant  cup  butter,  one  level  cup  sugar, 
two  eggs,  one  tablespoon  water,  one  teaspoon  vanilla,  one  teaspoon 
baking  powder,  enough  flour  to  make  a  dough  to  roll  out  thin.  Cream 
butter  and  sugar  thoroughly.  Beat  eggs  until  very  light,  add  to 
creamed  butter  and  sugar,  beat  well,  then  add  water  and  vanilla.  To 
one-half  cup  of  sifted  pastry  flour  add  baking  powder  and  sift  into 
other  ingredients.  Beat  until  light,  then  add  enough  flour  to  make 
soft  dough,  about  two  level  cups.  Turn  out  on  floured  board,  knead 
lightly,  roll  out  very  thin,  cut  out  with  cookie  cutter  and  bake  in  a 
quick  oven  about  ten  minutes. 

JULIA  M.  FAR  A. 


90  PRAGUE    CHAPTER   BOOK   OF  RECIPES 

CRISP  COOKIES— Two  tablespoons  butter,  two  cups  sugar, 
two  eggs,  one  cup  sour  cream,  one-half  teaspoon  soda,  four  cups  flour, 
flavor  with  nutmeg.  Cream  butter,  add  sugar,  add  eggs,  mix  well  and 
add  the  rest  of  the  ingredients,  the  soda  dissolved  in  the  sour  cream. 
Toss  on  floured  board,  roll  out  thin  and  cut.  Bake  in  shallow  buttered 
pans  in  hot  oven  about  ten  minutes. 

JULIA  M.  FAR  A. 

SUGAR  COOKIES— One  tablespoon  butter,  one  of  lard  creamed 
with  one  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  add  two  eggs,  beat  again,  then  one- 
half  cup  milk,  two  teaspoons  baking  powder  sifted  with  one  cup  flour, 
nutmeg  grated  to  flavor  and  enough  flour  to  make  dough  stiff  enough 
to  roll  out. 

BLANCHE  KAMMERER. 

BUTTER  COOKIES— One  pound  butter,  one  pound  sugar,  four 
eggs,  one  and  one-half  pounds  flour,  one-half  pound  chopped  almonds, 
grated  rind  of  one  lemon.    Roll  thin. 

MARIE  PAIDAR. 

PEANUT  COOKIES— One-fourth  cup  butter,  one-half  cup 
sugar,  one  egg,  two  tablespoons  milk,  one  cup  flour,  one-fourth  tea- 
spoon salt,  one  teaspoon  baking  powder,  three-fourths  cup  chopped 
peanuts.    Mix  in  order  given  and  drop  by  spoons  on  buttered  tin. 

MARY  KLENHA. 

DAINTY  ORANGE  DIAMONDS— One-fourth  cup  butter,  one- 
half  cup  sugar,  one  egg,  grated  rind  of  one  orange,  one  cup  flour,  pinch 
of  salt,  twelve  almonds  blanched.  Beat  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream, 
add  egg  well  beaten,  grated  orange  rind  and  flour  sifted  with  baking 
powder  and  salt.  Turn  out  on  floured  baking  board,  knead  lightly, 
roll  out  thin,  cut  out  with  a  small  diamond  shaped  cutter,  lay  on 
greased  tins,  place  one-half  of  an  almond  on  each  and  bake  in  a  mod- 
erate oven  from  eight  to  ten  minutes. 

JULIA  M.  FARA. 

LEMON  COOKIES — Two  cups  sugar,  one  cup  lard,  six  yolks, 
four  whites,  juice  of  two  lemons,  grated  rind  of  one  lemon,  one  tea- 
spoon baking  powder,  one  teaspoon  soda,  and  enough  flour  to  make 
soft  dough.  Roll  out  on  floured  towel.  Beat  the  two  remaining 
whites,  not  too  stiff,  and  brush  over  the  tops  of  cookies  before  baking. 

MILADA  R.  KOREN. 

SOUR  CREAM  COOKIES— Cream  two  cups  sugar  with  two- 
thirds  cup  butter,  add  two  beaten  yolks,  one  cup  sour  cream,  one  tea- 
spoon soda,  one-half  dissolved  in  cream,  other  half  sifted  with  flour, 
one-half  grated  nutmeg  and  four  and  one-fourth  cups  flour.  Roll  out 
on  floured  board  one-fourth  inch  thick,  cut  in  any  shape  desired  and 
place  on  buttered  tin.  Sprinkle  with  sugar  and  bake  in  moderate 
oven  until  a  light  pink. 

MARIE  PAIDAR. 


PRAGUE    CHAPTER   BOOK   OF   RECIPES  91 

COOKIES — One  cup  brown  sugar,  one  cup  white  sugar,  one  cup 
butter,  two  eggs,  one-half  teaspoon  baking  soda,  one  teaspoon  vanilla, 
one  teaspoon  lemon  juice,  two  teaspoons  baking  powder,  two  cups 
flour. 

MARY  JURENA. 

HARD  EGG  COOKIES— Boil  hard  eight  eggs,  then  mash  the 
yolks  very  good,  add  one  pound  sweet  butter,  one  cup  sugar  and 
enough  flour  to  make  medium  stiff  dough.  Then  roll  out  thin,  cut 
them  the  size  of  a  small  glass  and  put  jam  on  top.  Bake  in  quick 
oven. 

MARY  POCH. 

BUTTER  COOKIES— One-half  pound  butter,  one-half  pound 
sugar,  one  pound  flour,  three  egg  yolks,  one  whole  egg.  Mix  and  let 
stand  over  night.  Roll  out  and  cut.  Brush  cookies  with  egg  white 
and  sprinkle  with  sugar  and  bake  in  moderate  oven. 

CECELIA  BART  A. 

HARD  BOILED  EGG  COOKIES— Yolks  of  six  hard  boiled 
eggs,  one  raw  egg,  six  ounces  butter,  four  ounces  sugar,  nine  ounces 
flour,  one-half  teaspoon  cinnamon,  grated  rind  of  one-half  lemon. 
Mash  yolks,  add  sugar,  butter  and  raw  egg,  cream  well,  and  add  other 
ingredients.  Let  stand  on  ice  or  cold  place  over  night.  Roll  out  one- 
fourth  inch  thick,  brush  with  beaten  egg  and  sprinkle  with  chopped 
almonds,  mixed  with  a  little  sugar.    Bake  in  moderate  oven. 

MARIE  PAIDAR. 

CHRISTMAS  COOKIES— Three  cups  flour,  one  cup  butter,  one 
cup  sugar,  six  hard  boiled  egg  yolks,  two  eggs,  three  tablespoons 
brandy,  one-half  pound  blanched  almonds  chopped.  Mash  the  egg 
yolks  until  smooth,  then  add  sugar  and  butter  and  cream,  then  the  two 
whole  eggs  beaten,  brandy  and  flour  with  one-half  teaspoon  baking 
powder  and  one-half  of  the  chopped  almonds  (reserving  other  half  for 
top).  Toss  part  of  dough  on  floured  board,  roll  out  thin,  cut  and  place 
on  buttered  tins.  Brush  with  beaten  egg  and  sprinkle  with  almonds 
mixed  with  four  tablespoons  sugar  and  one  teaspoon  cinnamon.  Bake 
in  moderate  oven  to  light  pink. 

MARIE  PAIDAR. 

BISHOP  BREAD — Three  beaten  eggs,  one  cup  sugar,  one  and 
one-half  cups  flour,  one  teaspoon  baking  powder,  one  teaspoon  vanilla, 
one-half  cup  nuts  chopped  coarse,  one-half  cup  raisins  and  a  pinch  of 
cinnamon.  Spread  on  buttered  pan  one-half  inch  thick  and  bake 
slowly. 

MARY  KLENHA. 
ANNA  KADLEC. 

MARGUERITES — Eighteen  wafer  crackers,  white  of  one  egg, 
one-fourth  cup  sugar,  two  tablespoons  chopped  nut  meats.  Add  the 
sugar  to  the  stiffly  beaten  whites,  then  the  nut  meats.  Spread  on  top 
of  crackers.  Place  in  pans  in  moderate  oven  for  a  few  minutes  until 
slightlv  browned. 

ANNA  KADLEC. 


92  PRAGUE    CHAPTER   BOOK   OF  RECIPES 

LEBKUCHEN — Break  four  eggs  into  a  bowl,  add  one  pound  of 
brown  sugar  and  beat  about  ten  minutes  with  a  wire  spoon,  add  two 
cups  of  flour  sifted  with  one  teaspoon  of  baking  powder,  one  teaspoon 
of  cloves,  two  teaspoons  of  cinnamon  and  one  teaspoon  of  nutmeg, 
beat  well,  then  add  one-fourth  pound  of  almonds  blanched  and 
chopped.  Pour  into  shallow  buttered  pan  and  bake  in  moderate  oven. 
While  hot  brush  with  one  cup  of  confectioner's  sugar  thinned  with 
warm  water.    Cut  into  long,  narrow  slices. 

MARIE  PAIDAR. 

ALMOND  TARTS — Four  eggs,  one  cup  powdered  sugar,  four 
squares  bitter  chocolate  grated,  one  teaspoon  baking  powder,  one-half 
pound  almonds  chopped  fine  and  one  cup  cracker  dust.  Beat  yolks 
of  eggs  until  thick  and  lemon  colored,  add  sugar  gradually,  beating 
continually,  then  add  the  cracker  dust  mixed  with  baking  powder, 
chocolate  and  almonds,  mix  well  and  last  the  beaten  whites  of  eggs. 
Bake  in  muffin  or  gem  pans  and  when  cold  remove  center,  fill  with 
whipped  cream,  garnish  with  candied  cherries  and  serve. 

LENA  KRACHT. 

ALMOND  PRETZELS— One  cup  butter,  one  cup  sugar,  one- 
half  pound  almonds,  unblanched  and  ground,  two  cups  flour,  two  yolks 
and  two  whole  eggs.  Cream  butter  and  sugar,  add  eggs  and  the  rest  of 
the  ingredients.  Mix  and  knead  into  one  big  roll.  Let  stand  in  ice 
chest  to  harden.  Cut  into  pieces  size  of  walnut.  Roll  each  piece  width 
of  your  little  finger  and  form  into  hearts,  rings,  crescents  and  pretzels. 
Bake  in  slow  oven  to  delicate  pink. 

KRAPFEN — Two  cups  flour,  two  cups  water,  one  tablespoon 
butter,  grated  rind  of  one  lemon,  four  yolks  and  four  whole  eggs.  Add 
butter  to  water  and  when  boiling  stir  in  the  flour  all  at  once  and  stir 
vigorously.  Remove  from  fire,  add  sugar  and  lemon  juice  and  the 
unbeaten  eggs  one  at  a  time  and  beating  constantly  between  each 
addition  of  eggs.  Drop  by  spoon  into  deep  hot  fat  and  bake  a  nice 
brown.    Sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar. 

BLANCHE  K  AM  MERER. 

KISSES — Whites  of  two  eggs,  one  cup  granulated  sugar,  one- 
half  teaspoon  lemon  juice.  Add  the  sugar  to  the  unbeaten  whites,  stir 
for  five  minutes,  then  add  lemon  juice  and  stir  until  very  stiff.  Drop 
by  teaspoon  on  slightly  buttered  tin. 

MARIE  FOUCEK. 

HERMITS — Cream  one  cup  butter  with  two  cups  sugar,  add 
three  eggs  and  beat  all  together  thoroughly;  add  three  tablespoons 
milk,  two  teaspoons  baking  powder  mixed  with  two  cups  flour,  stir 
again,  then  add  one  cup  seeded  raisins,  one  cup  chopped  nuts  and 
enough  flour  to  make  dough  stiff  enough  to  roll.  Drop  half  teaspoon 
on  greased  baking  pan  and  bake  in  moderate  oven  about  twenty 
minutes. 

BLANCHE  KAMMERER. 


PRAGUE    CHAPTER   BOOK   OF   RECIPES  93 

DROP  CAKES — Three  whites  beaten,  add  one  cup  granulated 
sugar  gradually,  two  cups  corn  flakes,  one  cup  shredded  cocoanut. 
Drop  by  teaspoon  on  buttered  tins. 

MARIE  PAIDAR. 

DROP  COOKIES— One-third  cup  butter,  one-half  cup  sugar, 
grated  rind  of  one  lemon,  two  eggs  beaten  separately,  one  and  one- 
fourth  cups  flour,  one  and  one-half  teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  one- 
half  cup  currants  or  chopped  pecans.  Drop  by  teaspoon  on  buttered 
tins.     Sprinkle  with  sugar. 

MARIE  PAIDAR. 

ROCKS — One  cup  brown  sugar,  three-quarters  cup  lard  or  but- 
ter, two  eggs  well  beaten,  four  tablespoons  milk,  two  cups  flour,  two 
cups  rolled  oats,  half  teaspoon  cinnamon,  half  teaspoon  salt,  one- 
fourth  teaspoon  nutmeg,  half  teaspoon  soda,  half  teaspoon  cloves 
and  one  cup  nuts,  chopped.  Cream  sugar  and  butter,  add  well  beaten 
eggs  and  milk,  then  the  dry  ingredients  and  the  nuts  last.  Drop  by 
teaspoon  on  buttered  pan  and  bake  about  twenty  minutes  in  mod- 
erate oven. 

JOSEPHINE  G.  KLEISNER. 

ROCKS — One  and  one-half  cups  brown  sugar,  one  cup  butter, 
two  eggs,  one  teaspoon  cinnamon,  one  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  very 
little  hot  water,  three  cups  flour,  one  cup  nut  meats  cut  coarse,  three- 
quarters  pound  seeded  raisins  cut  up.  Cream  sugar  and  butter,  add 
eggs  beaten,  then  other  ingredients.  Drop  by  teaspoon  on  buttered 
tins  and  bake  in  slow  oven. 

MARY  JORDAN. 

DATE  MACAROONS— One  pound  stoned  dates,  one-half  pound 
almonds,  whites  of  four  eggs  well  beaten,  one  cup  sugar.  Stone  the 
dates,  then  weigh  and  chop  them  fine.  Cut  almonds  lengthwise  into 
slices  but  do  not  blanch  them.  Beat  the  whites  of  four  eggs  until 
foam}-,  add  the  sugar  and  beat  until  stiff.  Add  the  dates  then  the 
almonds  and  mix  very  thoroughly.  Drop  mixture  with  teaspoon  in 
small  piles  one  inch  apart  on  slightly  buttered  tins.  Bake  forty  min- 
utes in  very  slow  oven. 

JULIA  M.  FARA. 

COCOANUT  COOKIES— Whites  of  three  eggs  beaten  stiff,  add 
one  cup  powdered  sugar,  one  and  one-half  cups  corn  flakes,  one-eighth 
teaspoon  baking  powder,  one  package  Dromedary  cocoanut.  Stir  all 
well  and  drop  in  well  greased  pans.  Bake  in  moderate  oven  a  nice 
light  brown. 

MARIE  E.  J  IRS  A. 

BROWNIES — One-half  cake  or  four  squares  of  bitter  chocolate, 
two  cups  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter.  Put  in  kettle  over  fire  until  well 
melted.  Then  add  four  eggs  well  beaten,  one  cup  flour,  one  cup  wal- 
nut meats  and  two  teaspoons  vanilla.  Pour  on  buttered  and  floured 
tins  and  bake  in  slow  oven  twenty  to  thirty  minutes.  Then  cut  in 
squares  like  fudge. 

MILADA  R.  KOREN. 


94  PRAGUE    CHAPTER   BOOK   OF  RECIPES 

BROWNIES — One-half  cup  butter,  one  cup  sugar,  two  eggs 
beaten  together,  three-fourths  cup  flour,  one  teaspoon  baking  powder, 
one  teaspoon  vanilla,  two  squares  Baker's  chocolate  melted  over  hot 
water,  three-fourths  cup  walnut  meats  cut  coarse.  Bake  in  one  layer. 
Cut  in  squares  while  warm. 

MARIE  PAIDAR. 

CRESCENTS — Cream  one  pound  sweet  butter  with  one  and 
one-half  cups  sugar,  add  one  beaten  egg,  one-half  cup  cream,  pinch 
salt,  one-half  pound  coarsely  chopped  almonds  and  one  and  one- 
quarter  pounds  flour,  mix  well  together,  turn  out  on  floured  board, 
roll  thin  and  cut  in  pieces  three  inches  in  diameter,  place  a  little  filling 
on  each  piece,  roll  up  and  shape  into  crescents.  Filling:  One-half 
pound  ground  walnuts,  yolks  of  two  eggs,  small  piece  butter,  sugar 
to  taste.    Mix  to  a  smooth  paste.     Poppy  seed  filling  may  be  used. 

MARY  KEC. 

NUT  BARS — Six  ounces  grated  almonds,  four  and  one-half 
ounces  sugar,  one  and  one-half  ounces  butter,  one-half  ounce  flour, 
one-half  teaspoon  cinnamon,  grated  rind  of  one-half  lemon,  one  egg. 
Cream  sugar  and  butter,  add  egg  and  other  ingredients.  Mix  well. 
Roll  out  one-half  inch  thick,  cut  in  bars  and  bake  in  slow  oven  one- 
half  hour. 

MARY  KLENHA. 

DATE  BARS — One-half  cup  of  sugar,  three  eggs,  one  teaspoon 
of  baking  powder,  one  and  one-fourth  cups  of  pastry  flour,  one-half 
pound  of  dates,  three-quarters  cup  of  chopped  nuts.  Beat  yolks  and 
sugar  until  creamy,  sift  baking  powder  with  flour,  add  nuts  and  dates 
chopped  fine,  beat  into  yolks  gradually  then  fold  in  beaten  whites  and 
bake  in  flat  ungreased  pan.  When  cool  cut  in  bars,  spread  with  plain 
frosting  or  powdered  sugar. 

BLANCHE  KAMMERER. 

CRYSTAL  BARS — Two  eggs  slightly  beaten,  one  cup  sugar,  one 
cup  flour,  one  scant  teaspoon  baking  powder,  one  scant  cup  walnut 
meats,  one  cup  dates  cut  up,  one  teaspoon  vanilla,  pinch  of  salt.  Mix 
all  together,  spread  on  buttered  oblong  cake  tins  and  bake  in  a  mod- 
erate oven  until  evenly  puffed  and  slightly  brown.  Cut  in  strips  while 
hot  and  roll  each  strip  in  powdered  sugar. 

MILADA  R.  KOREN. 

FROSTED  CREAMS— Cream  two-thirds  cup  lard  with  one-half 
cup  sugar,  add  two  eggs,  beat  well,  then  add  one-half  cup  molasses, 
one-half  teaspoon  ginger,  one  teaspoon  cinnamon,  mix  all  well  then 
add  one  cup  boiling  water  and  two  and  one-half  cups  flour  sifted  with 
two  level  teaspoons  soda.  Spread  thin,  bake  in  medium  oven,  ice  and 
cut  in  squares. 

BLANCHE  KAMMERER. 


PRAGUE    CHAPTER    BOOK    OF   RECIPES  95 

CHOCOLATE  STICKS — Four  eggs,  one  pound  brown  sugar, 
one  cup  almonds,  one-fourth  pound  German  sweet  chocolate,  two 
ounces  citron,  one-half  teaspoon  cinnamon,  one-fourth  teaspoon  each 
allspice  and  cloves,  three  cups  flour,  one  teaspoon  baking  powder. 
Beat  eggs  and  sugar  until  light,  add  spices  and  chocolate  grated, 
blanch  almonds  and  chop,  cut  citron  fine.  Mix  with  flour  and  baking 
powder  and  combine  the  two  mixtures.  Roll  on  floured  board,  cut 
into  strips  three  and  one-half  inches  long  and  bake  in  shallow  buttered 
pans  in  moderate  oven  ten  to  fifteen  minutes. 

MARIE  E.  TUREK. 

CREAM  ROLLS — Raise  one  yeast  cake  in  one  cup  of  warm 
milk  and  a  little  sugar.  Melt  one-fourth  pound  butter,  add  four  yolks 
well  beaten,  little  salt,  three  tablespoons  powdered  sugar,  the  raised 
yeast  and  one  pound  flour.  Beat  well  and  set  aside  to  raise.  Second 
dough :  Rub  two  heaping  tablespoons  flour  into  one  pound  butter  and 
put  in  cold  place.  Roll  out  both  doughs  one-half  inch  thick,  place 
second  dough  on  first,  fold  over  three  times  lengthwise,  then  cross- 
wise to  make  a  square.  Set  in  cold  place  for  one  hour.  Roll  and  cut 
in  strips  one  inch  wide,  roll  on  forms  overlapping  edges  and  when 
baked  fill  with  whipped  cream. 

EMILIE  SADILEK. 

ALMOND  BUTTER  ROLLS— One-half  pound  sweet  butter, 
one-half  pound  sifted  flour,  one  yolk,  one  egg  and  one-quarter  glass 
of  cold  water.  Beat  yolk  well,  add  water,  then  add  the  other  egg  and 
beat  all  well  together.  Have  sifted  flour  and  butter  in  bowl,  then 
add  your  beaten  eggs  with  water  and  work  together  very  lightly,  just 
enough  to  keep  together,  and  set  on  ice  over  night.  Next  morning 
roll  thin  and  make  a  filling  of  two  yolks,  one-quarter  pound  of  chopped 
almonds,  rind  and  juice  of  lemon,  two  tablespoons  of  sugar  and  beat 
one-half  hour  in  one  direction,  spread  on  dough,  roll  like  jelly  roll 
and  bake  in  an  unbuttered  pan.  The  same  dough  can  be  used  for 
cream  rolls  by  cutting  dough  in  narrow  strips  and  roll  on  cream  roll 
tins.  When  baked  fill  with  three  beaten  whites  mixed  with  one-half 
cup  powdered  sugar  and  fill,  or  if  you  want  rich  ones  fill  with  whipped 
cream. 

MAY  FRIEDL. 

NUT  ROLLS — Raise  one  yeast  cake  in  two  tablespoons  of  cream 
and  one  teaspoon  of  sugar,  cream  one-half  pound  of  butter  with  four 
yolks  of  eggs,  add  raised  yeast,  a  pinch  of  salt  and  one-half  a  pound 
of  flour,  mix  well  and  roll  out  real  thin,  cut  into  small  squares  and 
place  a  little  filling  in  each  square  and  form  into  small  rolls,  let  raise 
about  one-half  hour  and  bake  about  twenty  minutes.  Filling:  Whites 
of  three  eggs  beaten  stiff,  add  one  heaping  tablespoon  sugar,  three- 
fourths  pound  walnuts  chopped  real  fine  or  ground. 

MARY  GREENFIELD. 

JOSEPHINE  G.  KLEISNER. 

MAY  FRIEDL. 


96  PRAGUE    CHAPTER   BOOK   OF  RECIPES 

ALMOND  ROLLS — One  cup  butter,  one  cup  sugar,  one  and  a 
half  cups  flour  and  one-fourth  pound  almonds.  Work  flour,  sugar  and 
butter  together  until  well  mixed,  add  chopped  almonds  and  form  into 
small  crescents,  bake  about  fifteen  minutes. 

MAMIE  JINDRICH. 

CREAM  PUFFS— Boil  one  cup  water  and  half  cup  butter  until 
butter  is  dissolved,  add  one  cup  flour,  stirring  until  smooth.  Set  aside 
to  cool,  then  add  three  eggs,  and  beat  until  free  from  lumps.  Bake  in 
muffin  tins  about  half  an  hour.  When  cool  slit  along  one  side  and 
fill  with  sweetened  whipped  cream  or  a  custard  made  as  follows :  Beat 
two  eggs  with  one-half  cup  sugar.  Dissolve  two  tablespoons  corn- 
starch in  one-half  cup  milk.  Heat  one  and  one-half  cups  milk,  add 
cornstarch,  boil  until  it  thickens,  then  add  the  eggs  and  sugar,  and 
boil  few  minutes  longer.     Remove  from  fire  and  add  flavoring. 

JOSEPHINE  G.  KLEISNER. 
EMI  LIE  SADILEK. 

TARTS  OR  LISTY— Cream  three  ounces  butter  with  three 
ounces  sugar,  add  yolks  of  two  eggs  and  mix  well,  then  add  one-half 
cup  sweet  cream,  four  tablespoons  sour  wine,  pinch  of  salt  and  one 
pound  of  flour,  work  together  well,  turn  out  on  floured  board  and  roll 
very  thin.  Cut  into  small  pieces  about  two  and  one-half  by  three 
and  one-half  inches  and  make  a  few  cuts  with  a  knife  in  each  piece. 
Have  deep  hot  lard  as  for  fried  cakes,  drop  in  tarts  and  fry  a  delicate 
brown,  turning  once.  Many  pretty  tarts  can  be  made  by  twisting 
dough  before  putting  in  fat. 

MARY  KEC. 

VANITIES — Three  yolks  of  eggs,  three  tablespoons  cream,  one 
teaspoon  sugar,  pinch  of  salt,  flour  enough  to  make  a  stiff  dough, 
knead  well,  roll  out  on  board,  cut  in  three-inch  squares,  or  tear  in 
pieces,  the  more  irregular  in  shape  the  prettier  they  look,  fry  in  a 
kettle  of  smoking  hot  lard,  turning  once.  Sprinkle  with  powdered 
sugar. 

MARIE  STARY. 

LISTY  OR  VANITIES— Beat  six  yolks  and  two  whites  fifteen 
minutes.  Add  a  little  salt,  then  add  enough  flour  to  make  a  stiff 
dough.  Knead  on  floured  board  until  smooth,  roll  out  thin.  Cut  in 
pieces  about  one  and  one-half  by  two  inches.  Prick  with  fork,  drop 
into  hot  lard,  fry  a  delicate  brown,  turning  once.  Sprinkle  with  pow- 
dered sugar  before  serving. 

KATE  MLNARIK. 

PUFF  BALLS — Three  eggs,  one  cup  sugar,  one  pint  milk,  a  half 
teaspoon  salt,  pinch  of  nutmeg,  and  two  teaspoons  of  baking  powder 
sifted  with  flour  enough  to  make  stiff  dough.  Beat  very  light.  Drop 
bv  spoon  in  boiling  lard. 

EMILIE  SADILEK. 


PRAGUE    CHAPTER    BOOK    OF   RECIPES  97 

FRIED  CAKES — Beat  three  eggs,  add  one  cup  sugar,  beat  again, 
add  one  cup  sweet  milk,  four  tablespoons  melted  butter,  two  cups 
flour  sifted  with  three  teaspoons  baking  powder,  one-half  teaspoon 
salt,  one-half  teaspoon  mace,  beat  thoroughly  and  add  enough  flour 
to  make  dough  stiff  enough  to  handle.  Roll  out,  cut  in  forms  and 
fry  in  deep  hot  lard. 

BLANCHE  KAMMERER. 

DOUGHNUTS — Three  eggs,  one  cup  sugar,  one  cup  milk,  butter 
size  of  an  egg,  salt  to  taste,  a  little  grated  nutmeg,  two  and  one-half 
teaspoons  baking  powder,  flour  to  make  soft  dough.  Turn  out  on 
floured  board,  roll  one-half  inch  thick,  cut  with  doughnut  cutter,  fry 
in  deep  hot  lard. 

KATE  MLNARIK. 

SOUR  MILK  DOUGHNUTS— Three  eggs,  one  and  one-half 
cups  sugar,  four  tablespoons  butter,  one  cup  sour  cream  or  milk,  one 
teaspoon  baking  soda,  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  one  teaspoon  nutmeg, 
sufficient  flour  to  make  a  stiff  dough.  Set  in  a  cold  place  over  night. 
In  the  morning  set  in  a  warm  place  for  two  hours,  roll  out,  cut  with 
doughnut  cutter,  fry  in  deep  fat. 

MAY  FRIEDL. 

DOUGHNUTS — One  egg,  one  cup  sugar,  one  teaspoon  melted 
lard,  one-half  cup  sour  milk,  one-half  teaspoon  soda,  one-half  teaspoon 
grated  nutmeg,  pinch  salt,  one  and  one-half  cups  flour.  Roll,  cut  and 
frv  in  hot  lard. 

CECELIA  BART  A. 

CHOCOLATE  DOUGHNUTS— One  cup  sugar,  one-half  tea- 
spoon salt,  three  cups  flour,  two  teaspoons  baking  powder,  two  eggs, 
one  tablespoon  melted  butter,  two  tablespoons  melted  chocolate,  one 
cup  milk  and  teaspoon  vanilla.  Sift  together  flour,  salt  and  baking 
powder.  Beat  eggs,  add  sugar,  butter,  milk  and  vanilla  and,  last,  the 
dry  ingredients.  Make  dough  just  stiff  enough  to  handle.  Roll  out 
on  floured  board  one-half  inch  thick,  cut  with  doughnut  cutter  and 
fry  in  deep  hot  lard. 

LENA  KRACHT. 

SMALL  CHOCOLATE  CAKES— Two  tablespoons  butter,  one 
cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  water,  one  and  one-half  cups  flour,  pinch  of 
salt,  one  teaspoon  baking  powder,  two  eggs,  four  tablespoons  grated 
chocolate  melted,  one  teaspoon  vanilla.    Bake  in  muffin  tins. 

JULIA  DENK. 

LITTLE  FEATHER  CAKES— Cream  one  cup  sugar  with  two 
level  tablespoons  butter,  add  beaten  yolk  of  one  egg,  one-fourth  cup 
of  milk,  one-fourth  cup  of  water,  two  cups  of  flour  sifted  with  two 
teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  flavor  to  taste.  Last  of  all  add  beaten 
white  of  egg.     Bake  in  muffin  tins  and  cover  with  any  desired  icing. 

MAY  FRIEDL. 


98  PRAGUE    CHAPTER   BOOK   OF  RECIPES 

GINGER  CUP  CAKES— One-fourth  cup  butter,  one-fourth  cup 
brown  sugar,  one  and  one-half  cups  flour,  one-half  teaspoon  cinnamon, 
one-fourth  teaspoon  cloves,  pinch  of  salt,  one  egg,  one-half  cup  mo- 
lasses, one  teaspoon  soda,  one-half  cup  boiling  water,  one  tablespoon 
ginger.  Cream  butter  and  sugar,  then  add  the  egg.  Mix  and  sift  dry 
ingredients  and  add  alternately  with  hot  water  and  molasses.  Bake 
in  muffin  tins. 

ANNA  KADLEC. 

CUP  CAKES — Four  level  tablespoons  butter,  four  rounding 
tablespoons  sugar,  one  egg  well  beaten,  three-fourths  cup  milk,  one 
and  three-fourths  cups  Swansdown  pastry  flour,  four  level  teaspoons 
baking  powder  sifted  with  flour,  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  one-half  cup 
chopped  pecans.  Cream  the  butter,  add  sugar  gradually,  add  the 
beaten  egg,  then  the  milk  and  dry  ingredients  and  nuts.  Bake  in 
moderate  oven. 

MARIE  PAIDAR. 


PRAGUE    CHAPTER   BOOK    OF   RECIPES  99 

KOLACKY  or  TARTS  AND  RAISED 
FRIED  CAKES 

RAISED  KOLACKY  OR  BUTTER  TARTS— Raise  one  cake 
compressed  yeast  in  one-half  cup  of  milk  and  tablespoon  of  sugar. 
Sift  one  and  one-fourth  pounds  of  flour,  and  into  one-third  of  this 
rub  one-half  pound  of  butter  until  smooth  and  set  in  cool  place.  Mix 
together  one  cup  of  warm  milk,  two  well  beaten  yolks,  the  raised 
yeast,  remaining  two-thirds  of  flour,  level  teaspoon  of  salt,  pinch  of 
mace,  cover  and  put  in  warm  place  to  raise.  Then  roll  out  each 
dough  separately,  place  butter  dough  on  raised  dough,  fold  over  three 
times  lengthwise,  pound  it  down,  let  raise,  then  fold  three  times 
crosswise,  pound  down  again,  let  raise,  then  lengthwise  and  crosswise 
once  more.  Roll  out,  cut  in  squares,  put  filling  in  each  square,  bring 
opposite  corners  together,  pinch  tight,  let  raise,  brush  with  beaten 
egg,  sprinkle  with  chopped  almonds  and  bake. 

MATILDA  CERVENY. 


KOLACKY  (RAISED  TARTS)— Dissolve  two  cakes  of  Fleisch- 
man's  yeast  in  one  cup  of  lukewarm  milk  and  one  tablespoon  of  gran- 
ulated sugar.  Set  in  warm  place  to  raise.  Cream  one-fourth  pound 
of  clarified  butter,  one-fourth  pound  fresh  butter,  three  tablespoons 
of  powdered  sugar,  grated  rind  of  one-half  lemon,  one-half  teaspoon 
of  salt,  and  pinch  of  mace.  Add  six  yolks  well  beaten,  then  the 
raised  yeast,  one  pound  and  one-half  cup  of  flour,  and  the  beaten 
whites  of  four  eggs.  Beat  until  batter  falls  from  spoon.  Set  aside 
to  raise  until  light.  Turn  out  on  floured  board,  pat  out  one-half  inch 
thick.  Cut  with  small  biscuit  cutter,  place  on  buttered  tins  about  one 
inch  apart,  brush  with  melted  butter,  press  down  the  center  of  each 
with  fingers  so  as  to  raise  a  ridge  around  the  edge.  Fill  with  stewed 
fruit  (see  filling  for  Raised  Fried  Cakes).  When  well  risen,  bake  in 
hot  oven.  This  dough  is  delicious  made  into  apple,  peach,  strawberry 
or  plum  cake  or  coffee  cake  or  baked  in  tube  pan,  adding  raisins  and 
chopped  walnuts  or  almonds.  Clarified  butter  is  made  by  cooking 
over  slow  fire  until  a  very  light  brown. 

MARY  JORDAN. 

MARIE  PAIDAR. 


KOLACKY — Cream  one-half  cup  butter  with  six  tablespoons 
powdered  sugar,  add  a  pinch  of  salt  and  grated  rind  of  one  lemon, 
then  the  beaten  yolks  of  three  eggs  and  white  of  one  egg,  one  bottle 
cream,  and  last  one-half  pound  flour  sifted  six  times  with  two  level 
tablespoons  baking  powder.  Roll  out  about  one-half  inch  thick,  cut 
with  small  round  cutter  and  place  any  desired  filling  in  center  and 
bake  in  moderate  oven. 

FRANCES  KOLAR. 


100  PRAGUE    CHAPTER   BOOK   OF   RECIPES 

FROZEN  TARTS— One  pound  of  sweet  butter,  half  a  cup  of 
cream,  yolks  of  six  eggs,  two  teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  three- 
quarters  cup  of  powdered  sugar,  one  teaspoon  salt,  one  teaspoon  of 
vanilla,  one  pound  flour.  Rub  well  one  pound  of  butter  with  a  cup  of 
flour  and  set  in  cold  place.  Make  dough  of  remaining  flour,  baking 
powder,  sugar,  salt,  yolks  of  eggs,  cream  and  vanilla,  and  work  well. 
Roll  out  first  dough,  then  roll  out  the  second,  place  over  the  first,  fold 
lengthwise,  roll,  fold  crosswise,  roll  again,  repeat  until  well  mixed. 
Place  on  ice  over  night.  Next  morning  roll  out  a  quarter  of  an  inch 
thick,  cut  with  small  biscuit  cutter.  Use  prune  filling,  sprinkle  with 
chopped  almonds.    Bake  in  moderate  oven.  MAY  FRIEDL. 

FROZEN  TARTS— One-half  pound  butter,  one-half  pound  lard, 
two  tablespoons  sugar,  pinch  of  salt,  two  cups  flour.  Mix  this  together 
thoroughly,  then  add  three-fourths  cup  ice  cold  water  and  mix  quickly, 
adding  more  flour  if  necessary  to  make  cookie  dough.  Roll  out,  thin 
on  floured  board,  cut  with  cookie  cutter  and  bake  a  light  pink.  Put 
two  cookies  together  with  strawberry  jam  or  jelly  or  any  desired 
filling  between  and  sprinkle  top  with  powdered  sugar. 

JENNIE  RATAJ IK. 

BUTTER  KOLACKY— Fourteen  ounces  of  sweet  butter,  seven 
ounces  of  granulated  sugar,  twenty  ounces  of  flour,  three  yolks,  one- 
fourth  pound  almonds  chopped  fine.  Sift  flour  and  work  in  butter  and 
sugar,  then  add  yolks  not  beaten.  Mix  and  knead  until  very  smooth. 
Roll  out  about  one-half  inch  thick  and  cut  with  a  small  glass  or  cutter. 
Make  dent  in  center.  Brush  with  slightly  beaten  white  of  egg  and 
sprinkle  with  chopped  almonds.  Bake  in  moderate  oven.  When  cool 
fill  dents  with  jam  or  jelly.  ANNA  KADLEC. 

ICE  KOLATCHEN— Dough  No.  1— One  cup  flour,  one  cup 
butter.  Have  all  materials  and  utensils  cold.  Rub  the  butter  in  the 
flour,  then  work  into  a  dough.  Set  in  a  cool  place  to  harden.  Then 
prepare  the  following:  Dough  No.  2 — One  yeast  cake,  three-fourths 
cup  sweet  cream,  six  yolks  of  eggs,  one  and  one-half  cups  flour.  Dis- 
solve the  yeast  in  lukewarm  cream,  add  eggs  and  the  rest  of  the  ingre- 
dients and  beat  until  smooth.  Roll  out  dough  No.  1  and  dough  No.  2 
one-fourth  inch  thick  each  separately  and  then  place  dough  No.  2  on 
top  of  dough  No.  1,  pat  and  roll  out  together,  keeping  the  paste  a 
little  wider  than  long  and  corners  square.  Now  fold  the  ends  of 
dough  towards  the  center,  making  three  layers,  pat  and  roll.  Repeat 
twice,  turning  the  paste  half  way  around  each  time  before  rolling. 
Now  fold  in  a  dampened  napkin  and  set  in  a  cool  place  over  night  to 
chill  but  not  to  freeze.  Next  morning  roll  the  dough  again,  cut  into 
rounds  with  biscuit  cutter  three  inches  in  diameter,  place  on  floured 
board  and  let  rise  in  a  warm  place  until  light,  several  hours.  Place  a 
teaspoon  of  raspberry  or  pineapple  jam  on  one-half  of  each  piece,  then 
fold  over  the  other  half  and  press  edges  together  firmly.  Brush  the 
sides  and  top  of  kolatchen  with  whites  of  two  eggs  beaten  not  very 
stiff  and  roll  in  granulated  sugar.     Bake  in  moderate  oven. 

MAY  JURENA. 


PRAGUE    CHAPTER    BOOK   OF   RECIPES  101 

FROZEN  CHEESE  TARTS— One  pound  sweet  butter,  one-half 
teaspoon  salt,  one  pound  flour,  one  pound  cottage  cheese.  Mix  well 
and  set  in  ice  box  over  night.  In  the  morning  roll  out  thin  on  floured 
board,  cut  in  two-inch  squares,  fill  with  sliced  peaches,  preserved  figs 
or  jam.  Pinch  four  corners  together,  place  on  buttered  tin  and  bake 
in  hot  oven  until  a  light  brown. 

CECELIA  BART  A. 


FILLED  FRIED  CAKES— Raise  one  yeast  cake  in  a  little  cream 
and  teaspoon  sugar.  Melt  one-half  cup  butter,  pour  off  so  salt  stays 
in  pan.  Warm  one  pint  cream,  add  butter,  two  tablespoons  sugar, 
four  yolks  well  beaten,  rind  of  lemon,  little  salt,  two  tablespoons  rum 
or  brandy,  the  raised  yeast  and  enough  flour  to  make  a  dough  just 
stiff  enough  to  handle.  Roll  out  at  once.  Cut  two  rounds  with  bis- 
cuit cutter,  place  spoonful  of  filling  on  one,  cover  with  the  other 
round,  pinch  edges  together  tight.  Place  fried  cakes  in  warm  place, 
cover,  let  raise  until  light  and  drop  in  deep  hot  lard  bottom  side  in 
first. 

MILADA  R.  KOREN. 


RAISED  FRIED  CAKES— Raise  one  yeast  cake  in  half  cup 
cream  and  a  teaspoon  sugar.  Beat  yolks  of  four  eggs  until  light,  add 
grated  rind  of  one  lemon,  one  cup  lukewarm  cream,  two  tablespoons 
powdered  sugar,  two  tablespoons  brandy,  the  raised  yeast  and  enough 
flour,  to  which  has  been  added  a  teaspoon  of  salt,  to  make  soft  dough. 
Cover  and  raise  in  warm  place  until  double  its  bulk.  Then  pat  out 
dough  on  floured  board  about  one-half  inch  thick,  cut  with  biscuit 
cutter,  put  small  teaspoon  of  prune,  apricot  or  poppy  seed  filling  in 
center  of  each  round,  form  ball  by  pinching  edges  together  tightly, 
place  on  floured  towel  or  board  and  when  raised  about  one-half  hour 
drop  into  deep  hot  lard  and  fry. 

BLANCHE  KAMMERER. 


RAISED  DOUGHNUTS— One  cake  yeast,  one  and  one-fourth 
cups  milk,  one  tablespoon  sugar,  four  and  one-half  cups  flour,  one-half 
cup  sugar,  three  tablespoons  melted  butter,  one-fourth  teaspoon  mace, 
one  egg,  one-fourth  teaspoon  salt.  Method :  Dissolve  yeast  and  one 
tablespoon  sugar  in  lukewarm  milk,  add  one  and  one-half  cups  flour 
and  beat  well,  cover  and  set  aside,  to  rise  in  warm  place  for  about  one 
hour,  then  add  the  rest  of  ingredients,  knead  lightly  and  place  in  well- 
greased  bowl,  cover  and  allow  to  raise  about  one  and  one-half  hours. 
When  light  turn  on  floured  board,  roll  to  about  one-third  inch  in 
thickness,  cut  with  small  doughnut  cutter,  let  rise  again  on  the 
floured  board,  then  drop  in  deep  hot  fat.  These  doughnuts  absorb 
very  little  fat. 

MAY  FRIEDL. 


102  PRAGUE    CHAPTER   BOOK   OF  RECIPES 

FILLED  FRIED  CAKES  OR  SISKY— Break  one  yeast  cake  in 
a  little  warm  cream  and  teaspoon  sugar  and  set  in  warm  place  to 
raise.  Beat  yolks  of  four  eggs  until  creamy,  add  four  tablespoons 
melted  butter,  two  of  sugar  and  beat  well,  then  add  one  cup  of  warm 
cream,  half  teaspoon  salt,  two  tablespoons  brandy  or  rum,  raised  yeast 
and  enough  flour  to  make  soft  dough,  about  three-quarters  of  a  pound. 
Set  in  warm  place  to  raise,  then  turn  out  on  floured  board,  pat  out 
one-half  inch  thick,  cut  in  small  squares  and  put  a  teaspoon  filling  on 
each  square.  Fold  over  and  pinch  the  edges  together  tight,  cover  and 
allow  the  doughnuts  to  raise  until  light.  Drop  in  hot  lard  and  fry 
until  brown,  being  careful  they  are  cooked  through.  Filling:  Stew 
prunes  with  a  few  slices  of  lemon,  when  tender  strain  and  remove 
stones,  chop  fine,  sweeten  and  add  cinnamon  to  flavor.  Pineapple 
filling:  Strain  a  can  of  shredded  pineapple.  Boil  pulp  with  enough 
sugar  to  sweeten  until  thick.  Set  aside  to  cool.  Poppy  seed  filling: 
Grind  poppy  seed  fine  and  add  grape  jelly  to  make  a  paste,  or  you  can 
boil  the  ground  poppy  seed  in  milk,  sugar,  little  syrup,  pinch  of  salt, 
and  when  cool  thin  with  cream.  Apricot  filling:  Stew  apricots,  when 
tender  strain,  press  through  a  coarse  sieve  and  sweeten  to  taste. 

FRANCES  KOLAR. 
MARY  JORDAN. 


PRAGUE    CHAPTER    BOOK   OF   RECIPES  103 

PRESERVES,  PICKLES  AND 
RELISHES 

JIM  JAM  CONSERVE — One  quart  currant  juice,  one  quart 
raspberry  juice,  one  pound  seeded  raisins,  two  oranges  sliced,  adding 
the  yellow  rind  cut  in  small  pieces,  and  five  pounds  sugar.  Put  all 
except  sugar  in  a  porcelain  lined  kettle  over  the  fire,  put  the  sugar  in 
a  shallow  drip  pan  in  the  oven.  When  the  fruit  and  juices  have 
cooked  about  three-quarters  of  an  hour  add  the  hot  sugar,  allowing  to 
boil  up  as  you  would  jelly.     Pour  in  jelly  glasses. 

MARIE  PAIDAR. 

CRANBERRY  CONSERVE— Take  three  pounds  cranberries, 
one  pound  seeded  raisins,  four  large  oranges  peeled,  seeded  and  cut 
into  small  pieces,  and  three  pounds  of  sugar.  Cook  gentiv  about 
twenty  minutes,  take  from  fire,  add  one  pound  walnut  meats  and  cool. 

MARIE  E.  TUREK. 

CRANBERRY  CONSERVE— Three  quarts  cranberries,  two 
pounds  raisins,  juice  and  rind  of  four  oranges,  five  pounds  sugar  and 
one  cup  broken  nut  meats.  Chop  cranberries,  peel  oranges  very  thin, 
put  rind  through  food  chopper.  Place  all  ingredients  except  nuts  in 
granite  sauce  pan  and  cook  very  slowly  until  thick,  about  one  and 
a  half  hours.  Add  nut  meats,  bring  to  a  boil  and  pour  into  glasses 
and  seal  when  cold.     Good  to  serve  with  all  meats. 

LENA  KRACHT. 

RHUBARB  CONSERVE— To  three  pounds  of  pie  plant  add 
three  pounds  of  sugar  and  the  juice  of  three  lemons.  Cook  thirty 
minutes.  Then  add  the  grated  rind  of  three  lemons  and  one-half 
pound  chopped  almonds.     Cook  thirty  minutes  longer. 

ANNA  KADLEC. 

RHUBARB  CONSERVE— Four  pounds  rhubarb,  four  pounds 
sugar,  two  oranges,  one  lemon  and  one  pound  of  small  raisins.  Peel 
and  cut  into  pieces,  add  raisins  and  sugar.    Boil  together  very  slowly. 

BLANCHE  KAMMERER. 

PLUM  CONSERVE— One  basket  blue  plums,  remove  stones 
and  put  through  food  chopper,  four  pounds  sugar,  one  pound  seeded 
raisins,  one  pound  walnut  meats  cut  in  small  pieces,  juice  of  three 
lemons,  juice  of  four  oranges,  rind  of  two  oranges  put  through  food 
chopper.  Boil  forty  minutes,  stirring  frequently ;  add  nuts  last.  Seal 
while  hot. 

CECELIA  BART  A. 

PLUM  CONSERVE— One  basket  blue  plums,  three  pounds 
sugar,  one  pound  seedless  raisins,  three  oranges,  pulp  and  peeling. 
Boil  until  thick. 

ROSE  WASKA. 


104  PRAGUE    CHAPTER   BOOK   OF   RECIPES 

APRICOT  AND  PINEAPPLE  CONSERVE— Pare,  remove 
eyes  and  core  of  one  large  or  two  medium  sized  pineapples.  Cut  up 
fine,  add  two  cups  water,  cover  and  gently  cook  until  tender.  Put 
one  basket  (about  six  dozen)  apricots  into  a  shallow  dish  and  cover 
with  boiling  water ;  let  stand  four  minutes,  drain  and  cover  with  cold 
water.  Remove  skins,  cut  in  half  and  remove  pits.  Add  to  pineapple, 
measure  and  turn  into  preserving  kettle.  Allow  three  cups  of  warm 
sugar  to  every  four  cups  of  fruit  and  juice.  Boil  very  slowly  until 
thick  and  clear.    Should  be  delicate  amber  color. 

MILADA  R.  KOREN. 

CHERRIES  IN  CURRANT  JELLY— Two  quarts  currant  juice, 
eight  pounds  sugar,  two  quarts  stemmed  and  pitted  cherries.  Wash, 
mash  and  cook  slowly  at  first  as  many  currants  with  stems  as  will 
make  two  quarts  of  strained  juice.  Let  juice  come  to  a  boil.  Add 
sugar  and  skim.  Add  cherries  and  cook  slowly  and  steadily  from  ten 
to  fifteen  minutes.  Pour  in  jelly  glasses,  cover  and  keep  in  a  dry, 
cool  place. 

ANNA  KADLEC. 

APRICOT  MARMALADE— Pour  boiling  water  over  apricots, 
let  stand  about  four  minutes.  Peel  and  remove  stones,  then  press 
through  sieve.  Add  three-fourths  cup  of  sugar  to  each  cup  of  fruit 
and  cook  from  one-half  to  three-fourths  of  an  hour.  Stir  frequently 
to  keep  from  burning. 

JULIA  M.  FARA. 

CRABAPPLE  MARMALADE— Core,  but  do  not  peel  crabap- 
ples.  Boil  cores  with  enough  water  to  cover  about  one-half  hour, 
strain.  Boil  crabapples  with  very  little  water  until  well  broken,  then 
put  through  a  colander  to  separate  skin  from  pulp.  To  this  pulp  add 
the  juice  from  cores  and  boil  until  quite  thick,  then  to  each  pound  of 
fruit  add  juice  of  one  lemon  and  three-fourths  pound  sugar,  boil 
forty-five  minutes  longer  and  can  in  jars  or  jelly  glasses. 

GENEVIEVE  ENGELTHALER. 

GRAPEFRUIT  MARMALADE— One  large  grapefruit,  one  large 
orange,  one  large  lemon.  Scrub  fruit,  cut  in  half,  seed  and  take  out  cores. 
Chop  very  fine.  Measure  and  to  every  cup  of  the  fruit  add  two  cups  of 
cold  water.  Put  in  agate  or  china  vessel  and  let  stand  twenty-four  hours. 
Longer  will  do  no  harm  in  cold  weather.  Put  on  the  stove  and  let  it  come 
slowly  to  a  boil.  Cook  for  twenty  minutes  and  set  away  for  another 
twenty-four  hours.  Then  measure  again  and  for  every  cup  of  fruit  allow 
a  cup  of  sugar  which  you  heat  in  the  oven  in  a  shallow  pan  before  adding 
to  fruit.  Boil  the  fruit  hard  for  twenty  minutes,  then  add  sugar  and  boil 
moderately  until  the  fruit  jellies  on  a  spoon  dipped  into  it.  This  amount 
will  make  about  ten  ordinary  jelly  glasses  full,  if  boiled  neither  too  long 
nor  too  thick. 

MILADA  R.  KOREN. 


PRAGUE    CHAPTER   BOOK   OF  RECIPES  105 

TOMATO  JAM — Scald,  peel  and  cut  six  pounds  of  tomatoes  in 
small  pieces.  Add  three  cups  sugar,  one  stick  cinnamon  and  the  peel 
of  one  orange  cut  fine.     Boil  until  transparent. 

MARIE  E.  TUREK. 

STRAWBERRY  JAM— Stem  berries,  wash  well  and  to  one  cup 
berries  allow  three-quarters  cup  sugar.  Let  stand  about  three  hours 
until  juice  forms.    Boil  three-quarters  of  an  hour  and  seal  boiling  hot. 

BLANCHE  KAMMERER. 

STRAWBERRY  AND  PINEAPPLE  JAM— Run  pared  and 
cored  pineapple  through  a  food  chopper.  Take  equal  parts  of  straw- 
berries and  pineapple.  To  every  five  cups  of  fruit  add  four  cups  of 
sugar.  Let  stand  several  hours.  Put  in  preserving  kettle.  Let  cook 
gently  until  clear  and  thick.  Put  into  jelly  glasses.  Cover  and  set  in 
a  cool  dry  place. 

MARY  JORDAN. 

STRAWBERRY  AND  APRICOT  JAM— Two  cups  strawberries, 
two  cups  ripe  apricots,  four  cups  granulated  sugar.  Scald  and  skin 
apricots  and  quarter  before  measuring.  Leave  strawberries  whole.  Put 
fruit  and  sugar  over  low  fire  at  first  so  as  to  get  syrup.  Then  let  boil 
slowly  about  forty-five  minutes. 

ROSE  WASKA. 

FILLED  CURRANTS  (Bar-le-Duc)— Ten  cups  large  currants 
stemmed,  ten  cups  sugar.  Add  sugar  to  currants  washed  and  stemmed, 
and  let  cook  slowly  and  steadily  from  twenty  to  twenty-five  minutes. 
Pour  in  jelly  glasses,  cover  and  keep  in  a  dry,  cool  place. 

ANNA  KADLEC. 

BAKED  PEACHES— Scald  and  skin  peaches,  cut  in  halves  and 
pack  into  fruit  jars  as  full  as  possible,  set  on  covers  loosely  and  place 
jars  in  baking  pan  containing  about  one  inch  of  warm  water.  Bake 
in  moderate  oven  twenty  minutes  until  peaches  are  soft.  In  the  mean- 
time make  a  syrup  of  sugar  and  water,  ten  cups  water  to  eight  of  sugar 
for  ten  quarts  of  peaches.  When  fruit  is  baked  remove  covers,  put  on 
rubbers,  fill  with  boiling  syrup  and  seal.  Strawberries  and  other  small 
fruit  can  be  preserved  the  same  way,  only  a  richer  syrup  is  required. 

BLANCHE  KAMMERER. 

SWEET  PICKLED  PEACHES— One-half  peck  of  peaches,  two 
pounds  sugar,  one  pint  vinegar,  one  ounce  stick  cinnamon,  one  tablespoon 
whole  cloves.  Peel  peaches.  Boil  sugar,  vinegar  and  spices,  which  have 
been  tied  in  cheese  cloth  twenty  minutes.  Remove  spices,  put  peaches  in 
syrup  and  cook  until  soft,  using  one-half  peaches  at  a  time.    Seal  while  hot. 

MARIE  PAIDAR. 

OLD  FASHIONED  CRANBERRY  SAUCE— One  quart  cran- 
berries, one  cup  water,  two  cups  sugar,  five  good  sized  apples  sliced  thin. 
Cook  until  berries  are  broken  and  apples  soft. 

MARIE  E.  TUREK. 


106  PRAGUE    CHAPTER   BOOK   OF  RECIPES 

CINNAMON  APPLES— Eight  apples  cored  and  peeled,  make  a 
syrup  of  two  cups  sugar,  one  cup  water  and  one-fourth  pound  candy 
cinnamon  drops.  Boil  ten  minutes.  Set  the  apples  in  a  large  sauce  pan, 
one  next  to  the  other,  pour  over  the  hot  syrup  and  boil  slowly,  basting  con- 
tinually until  apples  are  tender.  Remove  apples  to  platter.  Boil  syrup 
down  one-half  and  pour  over  apples.     Serve  cold  as  a  garnish  for  meats. 

MARIE  PAIDAR. 

BAKED  CRANBERRIES— One  quart  cranberries,  one  cup 
water,  three  cups  sugar.  Mix,  put  in  pan  and  bake  until  cranberries  are 
tender. 

CECELIA  BART  A. 

CRANBERRY  MOLD — One  quart  cranberries,  two  cups  water, 
one  large  cooking  apple  cut  in  thin  slices.  Boil  until  skins  of  cranberries 
burst,  then  press  through  seive,  add  two  cups  sugar  and  boil  fifteen  minutes, 
pour  into  mold. 

BLANCHE  KAMMERER. 

CRANBERRY  JELLY — One  cup  water,  one  cup  sugar,  to  every 
pint  cranberries.  Stew  the  berries  in  one  cup  of  water  in  covered  sauce 
pan  until  they  burst  open,  and  are  tender.  Strain  through  coarse  sieve 
and  add  sugar.    Let  boil  one  minute,  pour  into  mold  and  set  aside  to  cool. 

JOSEPHINE  HONSIK. 

CHUTNEY — Clean  and  put  through  grinder  one  dozen  large, 
green  tomatoes,  eight  large  apples,  six  medium  onions,  three  red  peppers, 
one  and  one-half  pounds  of  raisins.  Boil  together  three  pints  of  vinegar, 
two  tablespoons  of  mustard  seed,  two  tablespoons  of  salt  and  two  pounds 
of  sugar.    When  cool  mix  thoroughly  into  vegetables  and  seal  cold. 

FLORA  V.  VOCKEL. 

PEPPER  RELISH — Twelve  green  peppers,  twelve  red  peppers, 
fifteen  good  sized  onions,  one  quart  vinegar,  two  tablespoons  salt,  two 
cups  sugar.  Chop  peppers,  scald  with  boiling  water  and  let  stand  five 
minutes.  Drain.  Mix  peppers  with  other  ingredients  and  boil  fifteen 
minutes.     Seal  while  hot. 

CECELIA  BART  A. 

CORN  RELISH — Two  dozen  ears  corn,  one  head  cabbage,  four 
green  peppers,  two  red  peppers,  ten  onions,  one  smallest  can  Coleman's 
mustard,  one  and  one-half  quarts  vinegar,  one  teaspoon  tumeric,  two  cups 
sugar,  three  tablespoons  salt.  Cut  corn  from  cob,  chop  cabbage,  peppers 
and  onions.  Put  vinegar  to  boil,  add  sugar  and  salt.  Wet  mustard  and 
tumeric  with  cold  vinegar  to  make  a  paste.  Add  to  vinegar  and  stir  until 
smooth.  Then  add  vegetables  and  cook  one-half  hour.  One  tablespoon 
of  celery  seed  may  be  added.    Seal  hot. 

MARY  KLENHA. 

CORN  RELISH — Ten  cups  corn  cut  from  cob,  ten  cups  cabbage 
chopped,  two  red  peppers  chopped,  two  teaspoons  mustard  seed,  two 
teaspoons  celery  seed,  three  cups  sugar,  two  quarts  vinegar,  two  table- 
spoons salt  and  one-half  teaspoon  tumeric.  Boil  one-half  hour  and  seal 
hot. 

ROSE  HAVLATKO. 


PRAGUE    CHAPTER   BOOK   OF  RECIPES  107 

CUCUMBER  RELISH— Three  quarts  cucumbers  peeled  and 
sliced,  one  quart  onions  peeled  and  sliced,  sprinkle  with  one-fourth  cup 
salt  and  let  stand  one  hour  and  drain.  Add  one  heaping  tablespoon  celery- 
seed,  one  heaping  tablespoon  white  mustard  seed.  Heat  one  quart  vine- 
gar, one-half  cup  water,  one-half  cup  sugar  and  one  teaspoon  cayenne 
pepper,  add  cucumbers  and  onions,  let  come  to  boil  and  can  while  hot. 

CECELIA  BART  A. 

YELLOW  CUCUMBER  PICKLES— Two  dozen  yellow  cucum- 
bers, twelve  cups  vinegar,  eight  cups  sugar,  two  red  peppers,  one-fourth 
pound  mustard  seed.  Peel  cucumbers,  cut  in  pieces  lengthwise,  remove 
seeds  and  sprinkle  with  salt,  and  let  stand  over  night.  In  the  morning 
drain,  scald  with  boiling  water  and  let  stand  about  four  hours.  Put 
vinegar  and  sugar  to  boil,  then  add  a  part  of  the  cucumbers,  boil  until 
clear,  place  into  jars,  adding  more  to  boil  until  all  are  used.  Chop  red 
peppers,  add  celery  seed  and  peppers  to  jars,  pour  over  the  boiling  vine- 
gar and  seal. 

KATE  MLNARIK. 

SWEET  PICKLES — Soak  for  forty-eight  hours  a  peck  of  small 
cucumbers  in  brine  that  will  float  an  egg.  Take  out,  put  in  fresh  water 
about  three  hours,  drain  well  and  pack  into  jars  and  pour  over  the  fol- 
lowing and  seal :  One  gallon  white  vinegar,  three  and  one-half  pounds 
sugar,  two  tablespoons  pickling  spices.     Boil  about  ten  minutes. 

JULIA  M.  FARA. 

SWEET  PICKLES — Wash  and  cover  small  cucumbers  with  a 
brine  made  in  the  proportion  of  one-half  cup  salt  to  one  quart  of  water. 
Let  stand  three  days,  drain.  Then  cover  with  half  water  and  half 
vinegar  for  five  days,  drain  again,  throwing  away  this  liquid.  Make  a 
pickle  of  two  quarts  of  vinegar,  one  pound  of  sugar,  tablespoon  pickling 
spices  in  a  bag,  boil  and  allow  to  cool.  Pack  pickles  in  jars,  add  one-half 
teaspoon  mustard  seed  to  each  jar,  fill  to  overflowing  with  cold  vinegar 

3.HQ   SC3.1 

GENEVIEVE  ENGELTHALER. 

SWEET  SOUR  PICKLES — Freshen  pickles  in  cold  water,  drain, 
cover  with  boiling  water,  let  stand  five  hours  and  drain  again.  Boil  one 
quart  cider  vinegar,  one  cup  sugar,  one  heaping  tablespoon  salt,  one  tea- 
spoon pickling  spices  in  bag.  Either  heat  pickles  in  brine  and  bottle 
boiling  hot  or  pack  pickles  in  jars  and  pour  boiling  vinegar  over  them 
and  seal  at  once. 

BLANCHE  KAMMERER. 

PICKLED  CUCUMBERS — Four  quarts  medium  sized  cucum- 
bers sliced,  one  red  pepper  cut  in  small  pieces,  two  cups  sugar,  two  tea- 
spoons celery  seed,  two  teaspoons  mustard  seed,  one  teaspoon  ground 
tumeric,  two  quarts  vinegar.  Let  pickles  stand  in  a  brine  over  night,  drain. 
Mix  other  ingredients  with  vinegar,  let  boil  a  few  minutes,  add  cucum- 
bers and  red  pepper,  let  stand  five  minutes  and  can. 

KATE  MLNARIK. 


108  PRAGUE    CHAPTER   BOOK   OF  RECIPES 

OLIVE  OIL  PICKLES — One  peck  medium  size  cucumbers, 
eight  small  onions,  slice  and  put  in  salt  brine  over  night.  Drain  well, 
add  four  red  peppers  chopped,  one-half  cup  mustard  seed  and  one-half 
cup  olive  oil.  Bring  to  a  boil  eight  cups  cider  vinegar  and  one  cup  of 
sugar.    Let  cool,  then  mix  with  other  ingredients  and  put  in  jars. 

MARIE  PAIDAR. 

DILL  PICKLES — Soak  in  brine  over  night  and  then  rinse.  Pack 
in  jars  with  a  few  sprigs  of  dill.  Boil  four  cups  water,  one  cup  vinegar, 
one-third  cup  salt  and  one  teaspoon  alum.    Pour  over  pickles  and  seal. 

JULIA  M.  FARA. 

DILL  PICKLES — Wash  and  pack  pickles  in  quart  jars,  adding 
dill  between.  To  each  jar  add  one-half  cup  vinegar,  one  level  tablespoon 
salt,  heaping  tablespoon  sugar  and  scant  teaspoon  alum.  Fill  rest  of  jar 
with  water,  place  covers  on  loosely  and  when  all  jars  are  filled  place  them 
in  a  boiler  with  water  up  to  necks  of  jars.  When  water  boils  and  pickles 
start  to  turn  yellow  seal  at  once. 

MARY  KEC. 

MUSTARD  PICKLES— Clean  and  slice  one  quart  cucumbers, 
one  quart  onions,  one  quart  cauliflower,  two  bunches  celery,  four  red 
and  green  peppers  and  one  quart  little  green  tomatoes.  Soak  in  brine  for 
twenty- four  hours  and  then  drain.  For  dressing,  mix  three  pints  vinegar, 
one  cup  sugar,  four  tablespoons  of  dry  mustard,  two  tablespoons  flour,  one 
tablespoon  tumeric.  Mix  well,  then  boil  and  when  thick  add  the  pickles 
and  seal  hot. 

JULIA  M.  FARA. 

CHOW  CHOW — One  quart  large  cucumbers  cut  small,  one 
quart  small  cucumbers  left  whole,  two  quarts  white  onions,  one  pint  green 
tomatoes  cut  up,  one  quart  green  beans  cut  up,  three  heads  cauliflower, 
six  green  peppers  chopped,  six  red  peppers  chopped,  two  tablespoons 
curry  powder,  two  tablespoons  tumeric,  one  tablespoon  celery  seed,  one- 
half  pound  Coleman's  mustard,  one  and  one-half  cups  flour,  two  cups 
sugar,  one  gallon  cider  vinegar.  After  preparing  put  all  vegetables  in 
separate  pans  in  strong  salt  water  over  night.  In  the  morning  drain  all 
well  and  scald  in  boiling  water,  not  letting  them  get  too  tender.  Mix  other 
ingredients  in  bowl  with  cold  cider  vinegar,  put  remaining  vinegar  on 
stove  and  when  it  boils  add  the  mixture,  and  after  having  boiled  fifteen 
minutes  add  vegetables  after  having  been  thoroughly  drained.  Seal  while 
hot.    Peppers  are  not  included  in  the  soaking. 

MARIE  PAIDAR. 

CHOW  CHOW — Cut  into  small  pieces  one-half  peck  pickles,  one- 
one-half  peck  onions,  one-half  peck  green  tomatoes,  one-quarter  peck 
green  beans,  four  heads  cauliflower  and  four  green  peppers.  Put  into 
salt  water  over  night.  In  the  morning  put  all  into  two  quarts  vinegar 
and  let  come  to  a  boil.  Pour  off  vinegar  and  now  prepare  one  quart 
vinegar,  a  little  sugar,  three  pints  prepared  mustard.  Let  this  come  to  a 
boil,  then  add  vegetables,  mix  well,  and  bottle  very  hot. 

ANNA  BROZ. 


PRAGUE    CHAPTER    BOOK    OF   RECIPES  109 


CATSUP — One  bushel  tomatoes,  sixteen  large  onions,  eight 
cloves  of  garlic,  six  red  peppers  cut  in  pieces,  four  tablespoons  salt,  three 
tablespoons  black  pepper,  three  tablespoons  ground  mustard,  one  table- 
spoon ground  cinnamon,  one  tablespoon  ground  cloves,  three  pints  vinegar, 
one-half  pound  sugar.  Boil  tomatoes,  onions,  peppers  and  garlic  about 
two  hours.  Let  stand  over  night.  Strain  through  a  large  sieve.  Let 
come  to  a  boil,  add  spices  and  salt.  Boil  slowly  until  thick.  Just  before 
removing  from  fire  add  the  sugar  and  vinegar. 

CECELIA  BART  A. 

CATSUP — Boil  together  until  soft  one  box  tomatoes,  four  large 
onions,  one  and  one-half  dozen  small  hot  red  peppers,  strain  through 
seive.  Put  to  boil  with  one  dozen  sprigs  parsley,  two  bay  leaves,  one 
tablespoon  whole  celery  seed  and  one-half  teaspoon  grated  garlic  tied 
up  in  a  bag  also  one  tablespoon  each  of  ground  black  pepper,  cloves,  level 
teaspoon  mace,  four  tablespoons  salt,  three  cups  sugar,  boil  five  hours 
stirring  well,  then  remove  spice  bag,  add  three-fourths  cup  vinegar  and 
boil  about  an  hour  longer.     Seal  hot. 

MARY  JORDAN. 

TOMATO  RELISH — Scald  and  skin  and  chop  one  peck  of  toma- 
toes, then  chop  six  large  onions,  four  red  peppers,  one  bunch  of  celery 
and  mix  together.  Put  into  bag  and  drain  over  night.  Boil  two  quarts 
of  vinegar,  two  pounds  of  sugar,  two  ounces  of  mustard  seed,  one-half 
cup  of  salt.    Pour  over  the  rest  and  bottle  and  seal. 

MARIE  E.  TUREK. 

CELERY  SAUCE— Thirty  tomatoes  skinned  and  cut  in  half, 
four  large  stalks  celery  cut  in  small  pieces,  six  red  peppers  and  six  large 
onions  put  through  food  chopper,  four  cups  vinegar  (white),  one  and 
one-half  cups  sugar  and  three  tablespoons  salt.  Boil  three  hours.  After 
it  begins  to  boil,  seal  hot. 

BLANCHE  KAMMERER. 

CHILI  SAUCE — One  peck  tomatoes  skinned  and  cut  in  pieces, 
two  cups  chopped  onions,  one  cup  chopped  red  peppers,  five  stalks  celery 
chopped,  one-half  cup  salt,  one  cup  sugar  and  three  pints  vinegar.  Boil 
three  hours  after  it  comes  to  a  boil  and  bottle  hot. 

MILADA  R.  KOREN. 

CHILI  SAUCE — Twelve  large  ripe  tomatoes,  two  green  peppers, 
one  red  pepper,  two  large  onions,  two  tablespoons  salt,  four  tablespoons 
sugar,  one  tablespoon  cinnamon,  two  cups  vinegar.  Peel  tomatoes  and 
onions  and  chop  fine.  Mix  with  other  ingredients  and  boil  until  thick. 
Seal  hot. 

KATE  MLNARIK. 

PICKLED  MUSHROOMS— Wash  carefully  in  several  waters, 
fresh  mushrooms,  little  ones  preferred,  and  boil  in  salted  water  about 
twenty  minutes,  then  drain.  Bring  to  a  boil  three  cups  vinegar,  two  cups 
water,  a  few  whole  allspice,  whole  peppers,  salt  and  a  little  sugar.  When 
this  is  boiling  drop  in  mushrooms,  boil  five  minutes  and  seal  boiling  hot. 

MARY  KEC. 


110  PRAGUE    CHAPTER   BOOK   OF   RECIPES 

CANDIES 

CARROT  CANDY — Two  cups  of  grated  carrots,  two  cups  of 
sugar,  juice  and  rind  of  one  orange,  scant  teaspoon  of  ground  ginger,  boil 
until  thick,  add  chopped  nuts,  set  aside  to  cool,  then  form  in  balls  and 
roll  in  granulated  sugar. 

MOLASSES  CANDY— Boil  together  sixteen  tablespoons  of 
syrup,  twelve  of  sugar  and  two  of  butter  until  brittle  in  cold  water,  add 
pinch  of  soda,  little  vanilla,  four  tablespoons  of  chopped  nuts  and  pour 
on  buttered  pan  until  cool  enough  to  pull. 

BUTTERSCOTCH — One  pound  of  brown  sugar,  one  cup  of 
water,  two  tablespoons  of  vinegar,  cook  slowly  for  ten  minutes,  then  add 
two  tablespoons  of  butter  and  boil  until  a  drop  hardens  in  cold  water. 
Pour  into  buttered  tins  and  as  it  cools  mark  off  into  squares. 

BLANCHE  KAMMERER. 

BUTTERSCOTCH  CANDY— One  cup  sugar,  one  cup  Karo 
syrup,  one  tablespoon  vinegar,  butter  size  of  an  egg.  Boil  until  a  drop  in 
cold  water  becomes  hard,  add  vanilla  to  flavor  and  pour  on  buttered  tin. 
When  cool  mark  into  squares. 

MAMIE  JINDRICH. 

PENOUCHI — Boil  one  and  one-half  cups  of  brown  sugar,  one- 
half  of  white  sugar,  three-quarters  cup  of  milk,  butter  size  of  walnut 
until  a  drop  is  quite  firm  in  cold  water,  then  add  one  cup  of  chopped 
nuts,  little  vanilla,  beat  until  candy  thickens  and  pour  in  buttered  tin, 
mark  off  into  squares. 

BLANCHE  KAMMERER. 

MAPLE  FLUFFS — One  cup  maple  sugar,  one-half  cup  brown 
sugar,  one-half  cup  water,  one- fourth  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar,  six  marsh- 
mallows,  white  of  one  egg.  Boil  first  four  ingredients  in  saucepan  until 
a  few  drops  become  brittle  in  cold  water,  then  add  marshmallows  broken, 
let  stand  five  minutes,  then  pour  over  the  stiffly  beaten  white  of  egg.  Beat 
up  until  light  and  when  it  begins  to  harden  drop  from  teaspoon  on  oiled 
or  greased  paper.  Place  halved  candied  cherries  or  nutmeats  in  center 
of  each  piece  and  let  cool. 

MARY  JORDAN. 

CHOCOLATE  FUDGE— Two  squares  bitter  chocolate,  one- 
half  cup  milk,  two  cups  sugar,  one-third  cup  Karo  syrup,  two  tablespoons 
butter,  one  teaspoon  vanilla.  Grate  chocolate  and  mix  with  all  the  in- 
gredients except  the  vanilla.  Cook  slowly,  stirring  ocasionally.  Cook 
until  it  forms  a  soft  ball  when  dropped  into  cold  water.  Remove  from  fire, 
add  vanilla  and  beat  until  it  begins  to  thicken.  Pour  into  a  buttered  pan 
and  when  nearly  cold  cut  in  squares. 

KATE  MLNARIK. 


PRAGUE    CHAPTER   BOOK   OF   RECIPES  111 

MAPLE  FUDGE — One  pound  of  medium  brown  sugar,  one  cup 
of  sweet  cream,  one  tablespoon  of  butter  and  one  teaspoon  of  vinegar. 
Boil  until  a  little  dropped  in  cold  water  is  firm.  Remove  from  fire,  beat 
until  it  thickens,  add  one  cup  of  pecans  chopped  coarse. 

MARIE  PAIDAR. 

MARSHMALLOW  FUDGE— Two  cups  sugar,  one  cup  milk  or 
cream,  two  squares  bitter  chocolate,  one  tablespoon  butter,  one-half  pound 
marshmallows.  Heat  sugar  and  milk,  add  chocolate  and  boil  until  a  drop 
in  cold  water  forms  a  soft  ball.  Add  butter  and  then  gradually  add  the 
marshmallows,  stirring  until  dissolved.  Cool  in  buttered  pans  and  cut  in 
squares. 

MARY  JORDAN. 

MAPLE  FUDGE — One  cup  of  granulated  sugar,  one  cup  of 
brown  sugar,  one-fourth  cup  of  milk,  one  teaspoon  of  vanilla,  one 
tablespoon  of  butter,  one-half  cup  of  chocolate.  Boil  until  a  drop  in 
cold  water  is  firm.    Pour  on  buttered  tin.    When  cool  cut  into  squares. 

JULIA  M.  FAR  A. 

DIVINITY  FUDGE— Two  cups  of  granulated  sugar,  one-half 
cup  of  syrup,  one-fourth  cup  of  hot  water,  one  cup  of  chopped  nuts.  Boil 
ingredients  until  it  threads  from  fork,  flavor  with  vanilla,  add  nuts,  and 
pour  over  beaten  whites  of  two  eggs,  and  beat  until  stiff.    Cut  in  squares. 

JULIA  M.  FARA. 

FUDGE — Scrape  or  grate  one-half  cake  bitter  chocolate,  add  two 
cups  sugar,  pinch  salt  and  tablespoon  butter.  Boil  until  a  drop  in  cold 
water  forms  a  soft  ball,  add  teaspoon  vanilla  and  chopped  nuts  if  desired 
and  beat  until  thick  and  pour  quickly  into  buttered  pan. 

MAMIE  JINDRICH. 

PEANUT  BUTTER  FUDGE— Two  cups  of  sugar,  one-half  cup 
of  milk,  two  heaping  tablespoons  of  peanut  butter,  few  drops  of  vanilla. 
Boil  all  together  five  minutes.  Take  from  fire  and  beat  until  it  thickens. 
Pour  on  buttered  platter  and  cut  into  squares. 

JULIA  M.  FARA. 

CREAM  FUDGE — Two  cups  of  sugar,  pinch  of  salt,  one  table- 
spoon of  molasses  in  a  cup  and  fill  the  cup  with  milk,  one  teaspoon  of 
butter,  one-half  teaspoon  of  vanilla,  one  square  unsweetened  chocolate. 
Stir  the  above  ingredients  except  the  butter  and  vanilla.  Boil  until  a 
soft  ball  will  form  when  dropped  into  cold  water.  Remove  from  fire,  add 
butter  and  vanilla.    Beat  until  thick.    Pour  into  a  buttered  pan. 

GENEVIEVE  ENGELTHALER. 

ORANGE  STICKS— One-half  cup  sugar,  peel  of  an  orange,  one- 
fourth  cup  hot  water.  Wipe  the  orange,  remove  the  peel  in  quarters  and 
cut  it  in  narrow  strips.  Place  peels  in  saucepan.  Cover  with  cold  water 
let  boil  up  once  and  drain.  Repeat  five  times  to  extract  the  bitter  taste. 
Heat  the  sugar  with  hot  water  and  when  dissolved  add  the  orange  peel. 
Cook  slowly  until  the  syrup  is  nearly  evaporated,  drain  and  roll  the  strips 
in  granulated  sugar. 

MARIE  PAIDAR. 


112  PRAGUE    CHAPTER   BOOK   OF  RECIPES 

COCOANUT  CANDY — One  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  one-half 
cup  milk,  two  teaspoons  butter,  one-third  cup  cocoanut,  one-half  teaspoon 
vanilla  or  lemon  extract.  Put  butter  in  saucepan ;  when  melted  add  sugar 
and  milk  and  stir  until  sugar  is  dissolved.  Boil  twelve  minutes,  remove 
from  fire,  add  cocoanut  and  vanilla,  and  beat  until  creamy  and  mixture 
begins  to  sugar  slightly.  Pour  at  once  into  a  buttered  pan  and  mark  in 
squares. 

MARY  JORDAN. 

POP  CORN  BALLS — Boil  one  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  water 
five  minutes,  add  two  tablespoons  molasses,  butter  size  of  a  walnut,  one- 
half  teaspoon  salt  and  boil  slowly,  stirring  only  enough  to  keep  from 
burning,  until  a  drop  in  cold  water  becomes  hard.  Pour  over  three  quarts 
of  popped  corn  stirring  until  corn  is  evenly  coated,  then  quickly  form  into 
balls.  This  syrup  poured  over  one-half  package  of  puffed  rice  and  put 
into  greased  pan  makes  good  puffed  rice  brittle. 

BLANCHE  KAMMERER. 


PRAGUE   CHAPTER   BOOK   OF   RECIPES  113 


BEVERAGES 

FRUIT  PUNCH — Two  quarts  strawberries  mashed,  juice  of  two 
lemons,  juice  of  three  oranges,  three  quarts  water.  Stand  in  cool 
place  four  hours,  strain,  add  one  and  three-fourths  pounds  sugar.  Stir 
until  sugar  is  dissolved  and  strain  again.     Serve  with  crushed  ice. 

MARY  KEC. 

FRUIT  PUNCH — One  cup  water,  one  cup  grated  pineapple,  one 
cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  lemon  juice,  one  cup  orange  juice,  one-half 
cup  fruit  juice,  one  and  one-half  cups  tea,  water  or  ice  to  dilute.  Cook 
pineapple  and  water  ten  minutes,  add  sugar  and  cook  five  minutes 
more,  cool,  add  other  ingredients  and  strain.  Use  two  tablespoons  tea 
to  make  one  and  one-half  cups  tea.  Any  kind  of  fruit  juice  (grape, 
peach,  raspberry,  etc.)  may  be  used.  Add  tea  just  before  diluting 
with  ice  water. 

BERYL  CISLER. 

FRUIT  PUNCH— One  bottle  Catawba  grape  juice,  one  bottle 
ginger  ale,  one  bottle  Apollinaris.  Serve  in  pitcher  or  punch  bowl. 
When  served  in  pitcher  have  a  long  slim  piece  of  ice,  a  few  sprigs  of 
mint,  a  slice  of  cucumber  rind,  peel  of  one  orange,  cherries,  straw- 
berries, raspberries,  slices  of  peach  or  pineapple,  as  the  season  fur- 
nishes. After  these  are  arranged,  pour  in  grape  juice  and  ginger  ale 
at  the  same  time,  adding  the  Apollinaris  at  the  last  moment.  If  it  is 
not  sweet  enough  add  a  little  sugar  syrup.  Serve  from  the  pitcher 
into  small  glasses,  in  which  a  sprig  of  mint  has  been  placed.  Sugar 
syrup  is  made  by  boiling  for  ten  minutes  one  cup  sugar  and  one-half 
cup  water.     Let  cool. 

BERYL  CISLER. 

PINEAPPLE  PUNCH— One  quart  cold  water,  two  cups  sugar, 
one  cup  orange  juice,  one-half  cup  lemon  juice,  two  cups  chopped 
pineapple.  Boil  water,  sugar  and  pineapple  twenty  minutes,  add  fruit 
juice,  cool,  strain  and  dilute  with  ice  water. 

MARIE  PAIDAR. 

GINGER  PUNCH — One  quart  cold  water,  one  cup  sugar,  one- 
half  cup  lemon  juice,  one-half  pound  Canton  ginger,  one-half  cup 
orange  juice,  chopped  ice.  Chop  ginger,  add  to  water  and  sugar  and 
boil  fifteen  minutes.  Add  orange  and  lemon  juice,  cool,  strain  and  add 
chopped  ice  to  dilute. 

MARY  JORDAN. 

TEA  PUNCH — One  tablespoon  tea,  one  quart  boiling  water, 
two  cups  sugar,  juice  of  six  lemons,  juice  of  two  oranges,  one  pint 
Apollinaris.  Place  tea  in  large  earthenware  pitcher,  pour  on  the 
water,  cover  well  with  folded  napkin,  let  stand  five  minutes  and 
strain.  Add  sugar  and  the  fruit  juices  and  a  few  crushed  mint  leaves 
if  desired.  Cool  and  when  ready  to  serve  add  ice  and  the  chilled 
Apollinaris. 

MARY  JORDAN. 


114  PRAGUE    CHAPTER   BOOK   OF   RECIPES 

GRAPE  JUICE  AND  GINGER  ALE— Mix  equal  parts  of  grape 
juice  and  ginger  ale  and  serve  ice  cold. 

MARY  JORDAN. 

DANDELION  WINE — Four  quarts  of  dandelion  blossoms,  four 
quarts  water,  four  pounds  sugar,  two  lemons  sliced,  two  oranges 
sliced,  one  cake  yeast.  Mix  blossoms,  lemons,  oranges,  sugar  together 
and  pour  over  them  the  boiling  water.  Let  stand  until  lukewarm, 
add  the  yeast  cake  crumbled.  Let  all  stand  twenty-four  hours.  Strain 
and  put  into  a  two-gallon  jar.  When  fermentation  ceases,  strain 
through  a  cheesecloth  and  bottle. 

MARY  KEC. 

GRAPE  JUICE— Pick  over  and  wash  grapes.  Place  in  kettle 
and  let  boil  until  the  seeds  are  free.  Strain  while  hot  through  bag. 
Measure  and  add  an  equal  amount  of  water.  To  every  quart  of  liquid 
add  one  cup  sugar.     Bring  to  a  boil,  and  bottle  and  seal  while  hot. 

CECELIA  BART  A. 

SOAP  RECIPE — Two  large  tomato  cans  of  strained  grease,  one 
can  lye,  two  heaping  tablespoons  borax,  one  cup  ammonia.  Heat 
grease,  pour  into  a  bucket,  dissolve  lye  in  one  quart  of  cold  water 
and  borax  in  one-half  cup  warm  water.  Stir  all  together  five  to  ten 
minutes,  then  pour  into  a  box  lined  with  wax  paper.  When  set  cut 
into  pieces.    This  soap  floats  and  is  white. 

CECELIA  BART  A. 


PRAGUE   CHAPTER   BOOK   OF  RECIPES  115 


HELPS  AND  HINTS 

Marks  on  tables  caused  by  hot  dishes  may  be  removed  by  kero- 
sene rubbed  in  with  a  soft  cloth. 

Kerosene  will  brighten  silver  and  zinc. 

A  tablespoon  of  kerosene  in  a  boiler  of  clothes  will  greatly  facil- 
itate the  cleaning. 

Paint  stains  that  are  old  or  dry  may  be  removed  from  cotton  or 
woolen  goods  by  chloroform,  first  covering  the  spots  with  butter  or 
olive  oil. 

A  teaspoon  of  cornstarch  mixed  with  a  cup  of  salt  will  prevent 
it  clogging  in  the  shakers. 

Ginger  poultices  instead  of  mustard,  prepared  in  the  same  way 
you  would  prepare  a  mustard  poultice,  will  relieve  neuralgia,  and  will 
not  blister. 

Saturate  moth  infested  furniture  with  naphtha  or  benzine ;  it  will 
not  injure  the  color  or  fabric. 

Ammonia  will  remove  white  spots  from  furniture. 

Remove  tea  and  coffee  stains  with  boiling  water. 

Remove  chocolate  stains  with  borax  and  cold  water. 

Remove  milk  and  cream  with  cold  water. 

Remove  scorch  with  sunlight. 

Remove  grass  stains  with  ammonia  and  water. 

Remove  ink  stains  with  sour  milk,  lemon  juice  or  salts  of  lemon. 

To  remove  ink  from  white  goods,  soak  half  an  hour  in  vinegar, 
wash,  soak  in  solution  of  chloride  of  lime,  wash. 

Remove  paint  with  turpentine  or  turpentine  and  ammonia. 

To  remove  iron  rust,  moisten  with  ammonia,  then  use  salts  of 
lemon  or  oxalic  acid,  rinse  in  boiling  water. 

Remove  medicine  stains  by  soaking  in  alcohol. 

Remove  tar  with  kerosene,  then  warm  water  and  soap. 

Remove  whitewash  with  strong  vinegar. 


116 


PRAGUE    CHAPTER   BOOK   OF  RECIPES 


TABLE  OF  WEIGHTS  AND  MEASURES 


3  teaspoons   liquid    

4  tablespoons  liquid  

16  tablespoons  

XA  cup    

2  gills   

2  cups    

2  pints  (4  cups) 

4  cups   liquid   

4  cups   flour  

2  cups  butter,   solid 

Yi  cup  butter,  solid 

2  cups   granulated   sugar 

2^2  cups    powdered   sugar 

ZYz  cups  confectioners'  sugar 

1  pint  milk,  or  water 

1  pint  chopped  meat  (solid) 

10  eggs   (without  shells) 

8  eggs,  with    shells 

2  level  tablespoons  butter 

4  level  tablespoons  butter 

2  level  tablespoons   granulated  sugar 
4  level  tablespoons  flour 


equal 


equals 
equal 


1 


equals  J4 

equal     


equals 

u 

equal 


tablespoon 

gill  or   Y\   cuP 

cup 

gill 

cup 

pint 

quart 

quart 

pound  or  1  quart 

pound 

pound,  4  ounces 

pound 

pound 

pound 

pound 

pound 

pound 

pound 

ounce 

ounces  or  Y\   cup 

ounce 

ounce 


TABLE  OF  PROPORTIONS 

I   measure  nquid  to  1  measure  flour  for  pour  batters. 

1  measure  liquid  to  about  2  measures  flour  for  drop  batters. 

1  measure  liquid  to  about  3  measures  flour  for  dough. 

1/3  to  2  or  more  cakes  compressed  yeast  softened  in  l/i  cup  water  to   1  pint 

liquid. 
l/2  cup  liquid  yeast  to  1  pint  liquid. 

2  slightly  rounding  teaspoons  baking  powder  to  1  quart  flour. 
Y\  teaspoon  salt  to  1   quart  milk  for  custards. 

Y*  teaspoon  salt  to  1  cup,  or  1  teaspoon  to  1  quart  sauce  or  soup. 

%  teaspoon  salt  to  1  pint  flour. 

1  teaspoon  flavoring  extract  to  1  quart  custard,  or  cream. 

1   tablespoon  flavoring  extract  to  1   quart  mixture  to  be   frozen. 

%  cup,  or  less,  sugar  to  a  quart  milk  for  custards,  etc. 

1  cup  sugar  to  1  quart  milk  or  cream  for  ice  cream. 

1  cup  sugar  for  each  dozen  yolks  used  in  ice  cream. 

4  eggs  to  1  quart  milk  for  plain  cup  custard. 

6  to  8  eggs  to  1  quart  milk  for  custards  to  be  turned  from  mold. 

Y\  package,  or  half  an  ounce,  gelatine  to  scant  pint  liquid. 

3  cups  water,  more  of  milk,  or  stock,  to  1  cup  rice. 

1  ounce  (2  tablespoons)  butter,  Yi  ounce  (2  tablespoons)  flour  to  1  cup  liquid 

for  sauce. 
1  ounce  (2  tablespoons)  butter,  Y2  ounce  (2  tablespoons)  flour  to  1  pint  liquid 

for  soups. 
1  cup  cooked  meat,  or  fish  cut  in  cubes,  to  54  or  1  whole  cup  sauce. 
Meat  from  3^2   pound  chicken  equals   about   1   pint,  or   1   pound. 


INDEX 

Page 

Appetizers 3 

Soups    7 

Oysters  and  Fish 12 

Meats    17 

Sandwiches  and  Appetizers 28 

Vegetables    31 

Salads 37 

Eggs,  Omelettes  and  Pancakes 46 

Dumplings    49 

Breads,  Coffee    Cakes,  Muffins  and  Rolls 51 

Desserts     58 

Ice  Cream,  Ices  and  Sherbets 64 

Pies  66 

Cakes    70 

Small  Cakes,  Cookies  and  Doughnuts 88 

Kolacky  or  Tarts  and  Raised  Fried  Cakes 99 

Preserves,  Pickles  and  Relishes 103 

Candies    110 

Beverages    1 13 

Helps  and  Hints 115 

Tables  of  Weights  and  Measures 116 


R  E  C  I  PES 


RECIPES 


RECIPES 


RECIPES 


RECIPES 


RE C I P ES 


RECIPES 


RECIPES 


RECIPES 


