TX  715 
.C525 
1921 
Copy   1 


llllllllllllilllllllllllllllllllillllllllllllilillllllllllililllllllllllllllll 


restipterian 
Cook  l^ook 


Fourth 
Edition 


1     CHESTER,  ILL. 


illllllllill] 


«l 


Fourth 
Edition 


Copyrighted. 


i     CHESTER,  ILL.     1 


iRjiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiii2J 

Printed  on   Miller   Auluuiaiic   I'ress   by   Chester  Herald 


T)(7/i~ 

Cszs' 


PREFACE. 

The  Ladies  Aid  Society  of  the  First  Presbyterian  Church  com- 
piled the  first  edition  of  the  "Presbyterian  Cook  Book"  in  April, 
1905. 

Since  that  date  2500  books  have  been  sold.  The  last  edition 
was  exhausted  more  than  two  years  ago,  still  the  demand  continues. 
And  so  earnest  has  been  the  request,  and  from  so  many  sources, 
even  from  other  states,  that  the  Society  has  now  placed  on  sale  thft 
fourth  edition. 

In  arranging  these  pages  the  ladies  have  endeavored  to  fur- 
nish simple,  practical,  well-balanced  recipes  with  special  attention 
to  economy  to  meet  the  present  high  cost  of  living. 

In  most  cases  the  matter  has  been  inserted  as  received,  where 
condensed  it  has  been  to  save  space. 

In  this  book  some  material  has  been  omitted  in  order  to  make 
room  for  new  contributions.  The  Steeleville  department  has  been 
arranged  under  the  classified  headings  of  the  book. 

We  heartily  thank  those  who  have  so  willingly  furnished  re- 
cipes or  in  any  way  assisted  in  the  compilation  of  the  book. 


m  20  192? 


HOME  CANNING  BY  THE  COLD-PACK  METHOD. 

The  following  instructions  are  taken  from  Farmer's  Bulletin 
8o9  which  '.an  be  obtained  from  the  U.  -3.  Department  of  Agricui- 
tu.e,  Washington,  D.  C,  care  of  Publications  Di.v 

"Those  engaged  in  the  work  should  start  with  clean  hands, 
clean  utensils,  clean,  sound,  fresh  products,  and  pure,  clean  soft 
water.  No  vegetables  or  fruit  which  are  withered  or  unsouna 
should  be  canned.  If  po.^sible,  only  fruits  and  vegetables  picked 
the  day  of  canning  should  be  used.  Peas  and  corn,  which  lose  their 
flavor  rapidly,  should  be  canned  within  five  hours  after  gathering. 
The  jars  for  canning  should  be  placed  in  a  ves:el  of  cold  water  over 
a  fire  to  heat  while  products  are  being  prepared  to  insure  their 
being  thoroughly  heated  when  needed. 

The    canning    proceedure    for    most    products    consists    of    five 
teps — scalding  or  blanching,  cold-dipping,  packing,  processing,  and 
sealing.      With    berries   and    soft    fruits   the    blanching   is    dispensed 
with. 

To  blanch,  place  the  product  in  a  cheesecloth  bag  or  dipping 
basket  into  boiilng  water  and  allow  to  remain  from  one  to  fifteen 
minutes  depending  on  the  kind  of  product.  Next  dip  it  into  clean 
cold  water  and  remove.  Pack  carefully  into  hot  pars  adding  hot 
water  and  salt  for  seasoning-  The  scalded  rubbers  and  tops  of  jars 
are  put  into  place;  after  turning  the  lid  tight  reverse  it  one-quarter 
round  to  allow  for  expansion.  Then  place  in  hot-water  bath  foi 
processing,  the  length  of  time  being  determined  by  accompanying 
table.  Immediately  after  the  termination  of  the  processing  period 
while  products  are  still  hot,  remove  from  container  and  seal  very 
tightly.  Jars  should  then  be  turned  upside  down  to  cool  closely  ex- 
amined for  leak;.  If  leakage  occurs  covers  should  then  be  tightened 
until  completely  closed.  If  defective  rubbers  are  found  the  contents 
must  be  replaced  in  container  and  reheated  after  new  rubbers  are 
fitted. 

Homemade  outfits  are  as  good  ag  commercial  if  properly  made 
with  false  bottom  to  prevent  direct  contact  with  heat  from  below. 
Have  the  hot  water  cover  tops  of  jars  at  least  one  inch.  Count 
time  as  soon  as  the  wa^er  begins  to  boil  vigorously.  Remove  jars 
and  tighten  covers  as  soon  as  time  is  up. 


Time  Table  for  Cold-Pack  Method. 


Products. 

Tomatoes 

Sauerkraut 

Sweet  Corn 

Field  Corn 

Beans    (wax) 

Beans    (stringless) 

Cauliflower 

All   roots  and  tubers 

Swiss  Chard 

AsparagUg 

All    soft    fruits 

All  hard  fruits 


Blanch 

1  y^   minutes 

3   minuteg 

5  minutes 

10   minutes 

5  to  10  minutes 

5  to  10  minutes 

3   minutes 

5    minuteg 

15   minutes 

15   minutes 

1  to  2  minutes 

1 1/^    minutes 


Hot  Water  Bath 

22   minutes 

120   minutes 

180  minutes 

180   minute'i 

120  minutes 

120  minutes 

60  minutes 

90    minutes 

120   minutes 

120   minutes 

16  minutes 

20  minute? 


This  time  schedule  is  based  upon  the  one  quart  pack  and  at 
altitude  of  1,000  feet.  For  higher  altitude  increase  the  time  10  per 
cent  for  each  500  feet. 

Caution:- — Use  only  the  best  new  rubbers.  Avoid  drafts  of 
cold  air  when  removing  jars  from  container.  Have  jars  thoroughly 
sterilized." 


SOUPS. 


BEAN  SOUP. 

Mrs.   Wayne  Baughman. 
Boil  1  pint  of  white  beans  with  a  small  piece  of  pork  or  bacon 
and  an  onion  until   done,   adding   water  as   needed.      Salt   to   taste. 
Add   V2  cup  tomato  catsup  or  chili  sauce,  and  2  tablespoons  of  flour 
orowned  in  1   tablespoon  of  butter. 

POTATO  SOUP. 

Mrs.  J.  M.  Tindall. 
Boil  seven  potatoes  until  soft,  season  with  salt,  pepper  and 
butter.  Press  through  a  colander,  add  one  and  one-half  cups  milk. 
Juice  of  one  onion,  three  dashes  celery  salt;  stir  to  a  cream.  Beat 
mixture  steadily  for  ten  minutes.  Just  before  se.ving,  add  one-half 
pint  milk  and  some  finely  chopped  parsley. 

CREAM  OF  TOMATO  SOUP. 

Mrs.  L.  B.  Torreiioe. 
One  pint  tomatoes,  one  quart  milk,  one  slice  onion,  one  sprig 
parsley,  one  tablespoon  butter,  two  teaspoons  flour,  one  bay  leaf, 
one  teaspoon  sugar,  one  teaspoon  salt,  one-half  teaspoon  soda. 
Stew  tomatoes,  onions,  bay  leaf  and  parsley  for  20  minutes  Removp 
seasonings  and  presg  through  sieve  and  return  to  the  stove.  Scald 
milk,  rub  flour  and  butter  together  till  smooth.  Add  a  little  of  the 
hot  milk  to  this  mixture.  Stir  until  the  lumps  are  smooth,  add  to 
the  remainder  of  the  milk,  and  stir  until  it  thickens  to  a  cream. 
Add  sugar  and  salt  to  the  tomatoes,  then  the  soda  dissolved  in  a 
little  water.  Heat  the  soup  tureen,  turn  into  it  the  tomatoes,  then 
add  the  milk  slowly,  stirring  briskly  to  prevent  the  milk  from  curd- 
ling.    Serve  immediately. 

Mrs.  R.  E.  Sprigg. 
One  quart  fresh  milk,  heated  in  double  boiler,  and  quart  can- 
ned or  fresh  tomatoes,  run  through  sieve,  boil  in  separate  vessel, 
add  pinch  of  soda  to  tomatoes,  thicken  milk  with  one  tablespoon  of 
flour  rubbed  smooth  in  a  little  milk,  then  add  tomatoes,  butter  size 
of  a  hickory  nut,  salt  and  pepper. 


QUICK  EGG  SOUP. 

Mrs.    Nathan    Randolph. 
Put  a  grated  onion,  one-half  cup  chopped  celery,  one  teaspoon 
salt  and  a  little  peper  into  one  quart  of  stock,  and  bring  to  a  boil. 
Strain.      Pour  while   hot   into   the   well    beaten    yolks   of   two   eggs 
Add  four  tablespoons  of  carefully  boiled  rice,  and  serve  at  once 

TOMATO  SOUP. 

Miss  May  Mc Adams. 
One  quart  tomatoes,  one  and  one-half  quarts  hot  water,  two 
tablespoons  sugar,  two  teaspoons  salt,  eight  cloves,  eight  whole 
black  peppers,  two  tablespoons  butter,  one  tablespoon  chopped 
onions,  three  tablespoon j  flour.  Put  butter  in  frying  pan,  when 
it  bubbles  add  onion  and  fry  five  minutes,  then  add  fiou.',  mix  well 
and  stir  into  soup.  Cook  slowly  fifteen  minutes,  strain  and  serve 
hot. 

LIMA  BEAN  BISQUE. 

Miss  Kate  Roberts. 
One  cup  lima  beans,  two  cups  milk,  one  cup  water,  one  bay 
leaf,  two  tablespoons  butter,  one  tablespoon  flour,  one  small  onion, 
salt  and  pepper.  Slice  the  onion  and  brown  in  the  butter;  add  the 
flour,  stir  until  smooth  and  b.'own;  add  the  water,  bay  leaf  and 
beans,  cook  until  the  beans  are  soft.  Pres3  through  sieve,  scald 
the  milk,  add  beans  and  cook  until  thickened.      Season  and  serve. 

SPONGE  DUMPLINGS  FOR  SOUP. 

Mrs.  George  Pillars. 
Put  on  one  quart  of  milk  to  boil.  When  it  boils  thicken  with 
one  and  one-half  cups  of  flour  smooth  with  water,  stir  constantly 
for  five  minutes.  Remove  from  fire,  add  salt,  three  eggs,  stirring 
in  one  at  a  time.  When  cool  drop  in  the  soup  by  tablespoo"v,fui. 
Let  boil  until  thev  come  to  the  surface,  then  remove  from  fire. 

TOMATO   BUULLION. 

Mrs.  Myrtle  Holman  Marsh. 
One  quart  of  tomatoes,  one  and  one-half  quarts  water,  two  tea- 
spoons sugar,  two  teaspoons  salt.  Add  four  or  five  cloves  and  same 
of  black  pepper  and  a  little  onion  if  liked.  Add  a  tablespoon  of  but- 
ter, cook  and  strain  through  a  cheesecloth  bag.  Re' urn  to  stove 
and  add  a  dash  of  cayenne  and  serve. 


OYSTERS  AND  FISH. 

BAKED  FISH. 

Mrs.  G.  A.  Pierce. 
Grease  the  bottom  of  an  open  baking  pan  that  the  fish  may 
not  stick  to  it.  Salt  and  pepper  the  fish  inside  and  out,  rub  thor- 
oughly with  oil,  butter  or  lard,  and  place  in  the  pan.  Break  one  or 
two  eggs  on  the  top  and  run  evenly  all  over  the  top  of  it,  place  in 
the  oven  on  the  upper  grate  till  it  is  a  golden  brown.  Serve  with 
drawn  butter  sauce  with  two  chopped  cold  eggs  in  it.  Serve  the 
fish  with  slices  of  lemon  and  cold  sliced  eggs  and  parsley  on  it.  , 

FISH   CHUWDEK. 

Mrs.  E.  J.  Gale. 
Two  pounds  of  fish,  five  medium  sized  potatoes,  two  onions, 
two  inches  square  of  salt  pork,  one  quart  milk,  two-thirds  table- 
spoon butter,  salt  and  pepper.  Slice  the  pork  and  onions  and  fry. 
Pare  and  cut  potatoes  in  small  dice  and  put  in  same  pan,  place  pork 
and  onions  in  a  strainer  and  pour  enough  boiling  water  through  it 
to  cover  potatoes,  add  salt  and  cook  until  done,  then  add  the  milk 
an  when  ready  to  boil  add  the  fish  which  should  be  in  small  dice. 
Cook  about  ten  minutes  or  until  the  fish  is  done,  just  before  remov- 
ing add  the  butter.      Serve  with  oyster  crackers. 

OYSTER  COCKTAIL. 

Mrs.    P.    H.    Ravesies. 

Mix  two  teaspoons  grated  horseraish,  one  teaspoon  salt,  two 
table  ;poons  tomato  satsup,  a  very  little  tobasco  sauce  and  juice  of 
two  lemons.  Have  six  oysters  in  each  glass,  and  divide  the  sauce 
between  them  evenly.      Chill  thoroughly  before  serving. 

ESC  ALLOWED   OYSTEKS. 

Mrs.    M.    Weld. 

To  one  quart  of  oysters  uje  one  cup  of  cream,  one-half  cup  of 

butter.      Place  alternate  layers  of  cracker  crumbs  and  oysters  in  a 

baking  dish,  season  wi'h  salt,  pepper  and  butter  and  pour  over  the 

liquor  from  the  oysters.      Bake  thirty  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven. 


ESCALLOPED  SALMON. 

Mrs.  W.  A.  Pinkerton. 
Remove  oil,  boneis  and  skin  from  can  of  salmon  and,  flake  with 
a  fork.  Put  layer  of  salmon  in  bottom  of  baking  dish,  cover  with 
cracker  crumbs,  dot  with  pepper,  butter  and  salt.  Add  more  salmon 
and  crumbs  until  dish  is  filled.  Add  two  cups  of  milk  and  bake  half 
an  hour. 

SALMON  LOAF. 

Mrs.  W.  C.  Allen. 
One  can  shredded  salnion,  one-half  can  small  June  peas,  one 
tablespoon  butter,  one  tablespoon  flour  (browned),  three  crackers. 
Heat  peas,  add  salmon  in  layers,  make  thicking  of  butter  and  flour 
and  add  to  moisten  it.  Lay  rolled  crackers  oVer  top,  salt  to  taste 
and  bake  20  minutes  in  Casserole. 

Mrs.    Wm.    R.    MacKenzie. 

One  large  can  of  salmon,  three  egg>j,  one  cup  of  bread  crumbs, 
four  tablespoon.3  milk,  four  tablespoons  melted  butter,  one-half 
teaspoon  salt,  one'-fourth  teaspoon  pepper,  mix  well  and  steam  one 
hour. 

SAUCE: — One  cup  of  milk,  one  tablespoon  catsup,  liquor  oif 
the  salmon,  one  tablespoon  flour,  one  tablespoon  butter,  let  it  all 
simmer  together  and  add  one  egg  just  before  taking  off  the  stove 

CODFISH  BALLS. 

Mrs.    W.    W.    Collier. 
Boil  together  one  quart  of  sliced  raw  potatoes  and  one  cup  of 
fish.      Mash  when  the  potatoes  are  tender,  and  add  two  tablespoon ; 
of  cream  or  milk,  piece  of  butter  the  size  of  an  egg  and  one  egg  well 
beaten.      Beat  with  spoon  and  fry  like  doughnutg  or  pancakes. 


MEATS. 


HAMBURG  LOAF. 

Mrs.  Ruth  Chapman. 
Three  pounds  beef,  one  pound  pork,  not  too  lean,  two  eggs, 
one-fourth  cup  butter,  salt  and  peppei-  to  taste,  three-fourths  cup 
oweet  milk,  one-half  cup  fine  cracker  crumbs.  Chop  beef  and  pork 
very  fine,  add  seasoning,  then  stir  in  the  eggs  beaten  very  light  and 
the  melted  butter,  mix  in  the  cracker  CiUmby  and  last  the  milk. 
Press  into  round  loaf  and  bake  two  hours  in  a  moderate  oven,  bast- 
ing occasionally  with  melted  butter. 

POT  ROAST. 

Mrs.  T.  W.  Tackenberg. 
Take  a  nice  roast  and  trim  from  it  some  suet  if  there  is  much 
on  it;  if  there  is  no  suet  butter  may  be  used  instead.  Put  suet  or 
butter  in  a  vessel  and  when  smoking  hot  lay  in  the  meat.  When 
browned  on  all  sides  add  a  little  water  an  continue  adding  water  a 
litMe  at  a  time  until  meat  is  tender.  Remove  the  cover  and  cook 
until  the  water  is  all  gone  from  vessel  and  give  the  meat  another 
light  browning,  being  very  careful  not  to  scorch  it.  Sp.inkle  dry 
flour  in  the  hot  fat  and  when  flour  is  brown  add  water  for  gravey; 
salt  about  20  minuter  before  it  is  done. 

LOIN  POT  ROAST. 

Mrs.     li.     .\sziiian. 

Soak  roast  three  days  in  one  pint  of  vinegar,  laurel  leaf,  sliced 
onion,  salt  and  pepper.  Brown  in  kettle  and  add  vinegar.  Let  boil 
down,  then  keep  adding  water  enough  to  keep  from  burning.  Add 
leaf  again  and  cook  until  done. 

SWEDISH  ROAST. 

Mrs.    C.    \V.    Barnard. 
Get  round  steak  one  and  one-half  or  two  inches  thick,  sprinkl^ 
well  wi^h  salt  and  pepper  and  roll  in  flour,  then  pound  well.      Flour 
again  and  brown  in  hot  greaje.      Pour  in  a  small  quantity  of  water, 
cover,  set  on  back  of  range  or  in  oven,  and  cook  until  tender. 


FRIED  PORK  CHOPS. 

Mrs.   Don   E.   Detrich. 
Roll  first  in  egg,  then  in  bread  or  cracker  crumbs,  fry  slowly 
till  thoroughly  done. 

FRIED  BRAINS  OR  SWEET  BREADS. 

Mrs.    D.    H.    Holnian. 
Boil  fifteen  minutes  in  salt  water,  pour  off  water,  cut  in  pieces 
size  of  an  oyster,  dip  in  beaten  eggs,  roll  in  cracker  meal  and  fry 
in  hot  lard  till  rich  brown. 

CHICKEN  PIE. 

IMrs.    \V.    A.    Pinkerton. 

Cook  chicken  until  meat  falls  from  bones.  Remove  the  bones 
and  place  in  baking  dish  and  pour  in  sauce  made  of  three  table- 
spoons melted  butter,  three  tablespoons  flour,  five  cups  broth,  one 
cup  milk.  Over  ihis  spread  a  batter  made  of  two  cups  flour,  two 
teaspoons  baking  powder,  two  tablespoons  shortening,  one  egg,  one 
cup  milk  and  pinch  of  salt.      Bake  until  golden  brown. 

CHICKEN  DUMPLINGS. 

Mrs.    Wallace    Snook. 

Take  from  two  to  three  cups  of  flour  and  add  a  teaspoon  baking 
powder  to  each  cup  flour,  one-fourth  teaspoon  soda,  a  little  salt  and 
enough  milk  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Roll  out,  cut  in  square,!,  and 
place  in  chicken  broth.      Cover  and  boil  for  twenty  minutes. 

PORK  CHOPS  SERVED  WITH  FRIED  BANANAS. 

Mr.s.    G.    L.    Brush. 
Select  chops  from  the  loin.     .Salt,  pepper  and  flour  and  fry  in 
hot  fat.      Peel  and   cut   in   halves   length-wise  as   many   bananas  a^? 
wanted  and  fry  a  delicate  brown  in  the  hot  fat  left  from  the  chops. 

BAKED  SPRING  CHICKEN. 

Mrs.  W.  C.  Roberts. 
Take  young  chickens  weighing  from  two  to  three  pounds,  split 
and  rub  well  with  flour,  put  in  baking  pan  and  place  six  or  eighi 
small  lumps  of  butter  on  each  piece.  Place  in  hot  oven,  when 
brown  pour  in  a  cup  of  hot  water,  cover  the  baking  pan  and  bake 
slowly  three-quarters  of  an  hour,  add  salt  to  taste  about  fifteen 
minutes  before  it  is  done. 

10 


SMOTHERED  CHICKEN. 

Mrs.   Sip:  C.   Heuer. 

Cut  chicken  up  as  for  frying,  flour  each  piece  and  lay  in  roaster. 
Pour  enough  hot  water  over  chicken  to  almost  cover.  Cover  tight- 
ly and  when  almost  done  turn  each  piece  so  as  to  brown  on  each 
side.      Bake  in  moderate  oven. 

VEAL  BIRDS. 

Mrs.  Wm.  R.  MacKenzie. 
Use  veal  steak  off  the  round,  cut  thin  and  about  the  size  of 
your  hand.  Make  a  dressing  as  you  would  for  turkey  and  lay  a  little 
on  each  piece  of  meat,  fold  meat  over  and  around  the  dressing  and 
place  in  pan.  Fill  the  baking  ban  with  these  pieces,  cover  with 
flour  and  brown  in  oven.  Then  pour  in  boiling  water  and  let  sim- 
mer until  tender,  serve  with  gravy. 

VEAL  SOUFFLE. 

Mrs.    A.   L.    Stoke.s. 

Make  a  thick  cream  sauce  of  two  tablespoons  butter,  two  table- 
spoons flour  and  two  cups  milk.      Season  with  salt  and  cayenne  pep 
per.      Add  enough  chopped  veal  to  thicken  and  yolks  of  three  eggs. 
Set  to  cool.      Add  whites  of  eggs  and  bake   20   minutes.      Serve  at 
once. 

MEAT  PIE. 

Mrs.  Andrew  Cleiman. 
One  an  one-half  pounds  of  chopped  beef,  boil  for  one  and  one- 
half  hours.  Line  a  bake  pan  with  rich  biscuit  dough,  pour  in  meat 
and  gravy,  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  butter  the  size  of  an  egg. 
Lay  six  hard  boiled  eggs  cut  in  halverj  on  top.  Cover  with  biscuit 
dough  and  bake  one  hour. 

CORN  OYSTERS. 

Mrs.   L.   W.   Morrison. 

To  a  pint  of  grated  sweet  corn  pulp,  add  one  egg  well  beaten, 
a  small  teacup  flour,  half  gill  of  cream  and  a  saltspoon  of  salt. 
Fry  like  oysters  in  deep  boiling  fat,  by  spoonful!  size  of  an  oyster. 

11 


CROQUETTES,  CANAPES. 

TOMATO  CKOQUETTES. 

Miss  Kate  Roberts. 
One  cup  strained  tomato  juice,  three  tablespoong  farina,  one- 
half  tablespoon  butter,  three  fourths  teaspoon  salt,  one-half  tea- 
spoon celery  salt,  one-eighth  teaspoon  pepper.  Bring  the  tomato 
sauce  to  a  boil,  sift  in  the  farnia  slowly,  stirring  until  boiling,  then 
cook  for  twenty  minutes.  Mix  in  the  rest  of  the  ingredients  and 
turn  out  to  cool.  Form  into  cork  shaped  croquettes,  coat  with  egg 
and  bread  crumbs,  frying  in  deep  fat.  Serve  alone  or  with  cream 
sauce. 

SALMON  CROQUETTES. 

Mrs.  H.  Clay  Horner. 
Drain  the  oil  from  a  can  of  salmon,  remove  the  skin  and  bones, 
mash  fine,  season  with  pepper  and  a  little  salt  if  needed.  Add  a 
large  cup  of  cracker  crumbs.  Mix  thoroughly  and  add  enough 
sweet  milk  to  moi.^ten  well,  form  into  coneg  or  elongated  balls,  roll, 
first  in  sweet  milk,  then  in  cracker  crumbs  and  fry  a  golden  brown 
in  hot  fat.      Serve  while  hot. 

Mrs.    Laura    Brinkman. 
One  can  salmon,  pick  out  the  bones  and  measure.      Add  same 
amount    of   cold    boiled    rice    and    mix   well.      Season    to    suit    taste 
Roll  into  long,  thin  rolls,  and  dip  in  cracker  crumbs  and  fry  a  light 
brown  in  half  butter  and  lard,  enough  to  cover  well. 

FRESH  FISH  CROQUETTES. 

Mrs,  Wallace  Snook. 
Take  the  remnants  of  boiled  or  fried  fish  with  all  skin  and 
bones  removed,  or  drain  the  oil  from  a  pound  can  of  salmon,  mince 
it  fine,  add  a  half  teaspoon  salt,  a  dash  of  cayenne  pepper,  a  tea- 
spoon of  lemon  juice.  Set  a  tablespoon  of  butter  over  the  fi.e. 
when  it  begins  to  bubble  add  a  heaped  tablespoon  flour  and  sti  ■ 
until  the  flour  is  cooked,  but  not  brown,  then  add  a  gill  of  cream  or 
milk,  an  lastly  the  fish,  stirring  until  all  is  smooth.  If  it  is  too 
thick  a  little  more  milk.  Make  into  pear  shape,  with  a  wine  glas^ 
for  a  mould;  moisten  with  yolk  of  egg,  roll  in  bread  crumbs  and  fry. 
milk.  Make  into  pear  .ihape;  moisten  with  yolk  of  egg,  roll  in  bread 
crumbs  and  fry. 

1.2. 


CALLAS. 

Mrs.    Norman    .ray. 
Three  cups  cold  cooked,  rice,  two  beaten  eggi,  third  cup  sugar, 
eighth    nutmeg,    two    heaping    teaspoons    baking    powder    sifted    in 
enough  flour  to   make  a  stiff  dough.     Drop   by  spoonsfuls  in   deep 
hot  lai'ti.      Eat  while  warm. 

CHEESE  BALLS. 

Mrs.  H.  Clay  H;orner. 
Mix  one  and  one-fourth  cups  grated  cheese,  one-fourth  teaspoon 
salt,  dash  cayenne  pepper,  one  tablespoon  flour,  the  stiffly  beaten 
whites  of  three  eggs.  (Shape  into  balls  an  inch  in  diameter,  roll  in 
cracker  crumbs  and  fry  a  delicate  brown  in  deep  hot  fat.  Chee.se 
balls  should  be  served  cold. 


13 


VEGETABLES. 


POTATOES  AU  GRATIN. 

Mrs.  J.  W.  Nesbit. 
Boil  Irish  potatoes  in  salted  water  until  nearly  done.  Cut  in 
squares  and  butter  baking  di^h,  put  layer  of  potatoes  then  grated 
cheese  alternately  On  top  layer  sprinkle  grated  bread  crumbs.  Put 
scant  pink  of  milk  on  stove  to  heat.  Thicken  with  one  tablespoon 
of  flour  made  into  a  paste  with  little  cold  milk.  Add  a  good  table- 
spoon of  butter.     Pour  over  potatoes  and  bake  until  brown. 

POTATO  PUFF. 

Mrs.  Laura  Brinkman. 
Put  two  cupfuls  mashed  potatoes  in  a  pan.  Add  yolks  of  two 
eggs,  two  tablespoons  of  cream,  a  little  salt  and  stir  over  the  fire 
until  hot.  Take  from  the  fire  and  add  the  well  beaten  white3  of  the 
oggs.  Put  in  a  greased  baking  dish  and  bake  in  a  quick  oven  until 
brown. 

BAKED  POTATOES. 

Miss  L.  Blanch  Schlensker. 
Bake  12  smooth  potatoes  until  tender,  cut  end  from  each,  care- 
lully  remove  potatoes  from  jackets  with  spoon.  Cream  briskly  with 
one  cup  of  sweet  cream  or  milk,  butter  size  of  an  egg,  salt  and  pep- 
per to  taste.  Replace  in  jacket,  stand  in  pan,  open  end  up  until  a 
light  brown.      Serve  very  hot. 

LIMA  BEAN  LOAF. 

Miss    Josephine    Edwords. 
One  can  lima  beans,  one  can  tomatoes,  one  tablespoon  parsley, 
one  tablespoon  minced  onion.      One  well  beaten  egg,  one  cup  bread 
crumbs,  salt  and  pepper.      Bake  in  casserole. 

ESCALLOPED  POTATOES. 

Mrs.  Chas.  E.  Luke. 
Slice  raw  potatoes  very  thin,  put  a  layer  of  potatoos  in  a  baking 
dish,  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  but*^er,  sprinkle  a  tliin  layer  of 
bread  crumb.i  over  them,  then  another  layer  of  potatoe.s,  v.ith  soa- 
soning  until  dish  is  filled,  pour  over  enough  milk  to  cover  potatues 
and  ])ake  one  hour. 

14 


SARATOGA  CHIPS. 

Mrs.  E.  J.  Gale. 
Pare  smooth  potatoes  and  slice  very  thin,  put  in  ice  water  for 
15  minutes,  spread  on  clean  cloth  and  with  another  cloth  dry  thor- 
oughly, touching  with  the  hands  ag  little  as  pOoSible.  Drop  one 
piece  at  a  time  in  smoking  lard,  until  they  cover  the  top,  with  a  forlc 
turn  each  piece,  when  a  delicate  brown  take  up  and  place  on  paper, 
sprinkle  with  salt.  If  made  in  quanUty  they  may  be  kept  in  close 
covered  dish  and  freshly  crisped  in  the  oven  ju^t  before  using. 

SPAGHETTI. 

Mr.s.  Gene  Beare. 
^''ry  four  sninll  onions  in  one-fourth  pound  butter,  uniil  I>rov>n. 
Add  one  pound  hamburger  steak  to  this  and  cook  until  brown.  To 
th:s  mixture  add  one  can  of  tomatoes,  one-half  box  of  spaghetti 
(previously  c(>oked  tender)  and  one-half  can  of  kifluey  bean?. 
Season  with  fait,  a  little  sugar,  black  pepper,  and  plenty  of  rml  chili 
pepper.  Cover  the  mixture  with  water  and  let  simmer  one  hour  in 
ca^.^erole. 

CARAMEL  SWEET  POTATOES. 

Mrs.  J.  "W.  Nisbet. 
Boil  sweet  potatoes  until  tender,  allowing  water  to  boil  down 
to  two  tablespoons.  Remove  potatoes  and  add  a  small  teacup  of 
light  brown  sugar  to  water,  making  syrup.  Add  generous  lump  of 
butter  and  pour  all  over  potatoes  in  baking  dish.  Bake  one-half 
hour. 

BAKED  PEPPERS. 

Mrs.  J.  D.  Gerlach. 
One-half  dozen  large  sweet  pepper  .,  cut  in  half  and  seeds  taken 
out,  soaked  in  salt  water  for  one  hour,  one  pound  ground  cooked 
steak,  four  ounces  grated  cheese,  one  large  tomato,  one  tablespoon 
butter,  salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  three  or  four  crackers  crushed, 
mix  all  together  and  stuff  peppers.  Put  in  pan  with  a  little  water 
around  them,  bake  half-hour. 

CHILI  CON  CARNE. 

Mrs.     Cole     Cleiinan. 
One  pound  Hamburger  steak,  6  medium  onion  ■  cut  fine,  fried  in 
1   heaping  tablespoon   of  lard.      Add    1    can  kidney  beans,   salt,   red 
pepper  and   1   ta1)lespoon  of  Chili  powder.      Cook    1   hour. 

15 


CANNELON  WITH  MACARONI. 

Mrs.  C.  Howorth. 
Chop  some  round  of  beef  and  a  small  piece  of  pork.  Soak 
bread  crumbs  in  cold  water  and  squeeze  dry.  Add  two  well  beaten 
eggs,  onion  juice,  mace,  salt  and  pepper.  Form  roll  of  crumbs  and 
meat  and  bake.  Prepare  macarouj  and  sauce  of  butter,  flour,  salt, 
pepper  and  grated  cheese.  When  roll  is  cooked,  place  on  large  plat- 
ter with  macroni  around  it,  over  which  pour  sauce.  On  top  of  roll 
place  slice  of  lemon  and  sprig  of  parsley. 

CHILI  VERDI. 

Miss  K.  Pohlman. 
Take  three  or  four  mangoes,  toast  them  before  the  coals,  when 
well  blistered  peel  off  all  the  blistered  skin,  cut  out  the  hard  s'em 
and  chop  them  fine,  put  a  tablespoon  of  butter  in  the  frying  pan 
and  cook  them  slowly  for  fifteen  minutes,  season  well  with  salt 
and  pepper,  then  break  twelve  eggs  in  a  bowl  (four  eggs  to  each 
mango)  turn  them  into  a  frying  pan  and  stir  all  quickly  until  the 
eggs  are  cooked,  pour  over  it  three  tablespoons  good  vingar  and 
serve,  either   hot   or  cold. 

CREAM  ASPARAGUS 

Mrs.    Chas   E.    Luke. 
Boil  in  salted  water  until  tender,  drain  and  add  one  level  tea- 
spoon  of   flour,   dissolved    in   a   lump   of   butter   size   of   walnut   and 
one-half  cup  of  cream  or  rich  milk,  add  a  dash  of  pepper,  let   jim- 
mer  a  few  moments. 

CHEESE  SOUFFLE. 

Mrs.    Adeline    Gant. 
One  cup  grated  cheese,  one  cup  of  milk,  yolks  four  eggs,  one 
tablespoon  butter,  one-half  cup  grated  bread  crumbs,  or  two  table- 
spoons   of    flour,    a    dash    of    cayenne    pepper,    one-fourth    tea  ;poon 
of  salt,  whites  of  three  stiffly  beaten  eggs.      Bake  about  20  minutes. 

CORN  PUDDING. 

Miss    May    Mc Adams. 
One-half  dozen  ears  corn,  one-half  pint  milk,  three  well  bea'^en 
eggs,    two   tablespoons    butter,    sugar    and   salt    to    taste,    one    scant 
tablespoon  flour.      Grate  and  scrape  the  corn;    mix  thoroughly  and 
bake  one-half  hour. 

16 


TOMATOES  IN  CASSEROLE. 

Mrs.  Tuck. 
Peel  eight  medium  sized  tomatoei,  cut  into  quarters  three 
green  peppers,  (cut  fine  with  seeds  removed),  place  these  on 
medium  fire  with  small  amount  of  water  to  simmer  for  thirty  min- 
utes, then  add  one  large  sliced  onion,  one  cup  bread  crumbs,  two 
tablespoons  sugar,  one  teaspoon  salt;  put  in  casserole  and  bake  for 
thirty  minutes. 

OKRA  AND  TOMATOES. 

Mrs.    C.    H.    Gnaegy. 
Put  on  to  boil  in  small  amount  of  water  twelve  pods  of  okra 
(sliced)    and   one   cup   tomatoes.     Add   one   slice   of   minced   bacon 
fried  until  brown,  season  with  salt  and  pepper,  cook  until  done. 

ESCALLOPED  CORN  AND  TOMATOES. 

Mrs.  Fronie  Gray. 
Line  the  bottom  of  a  deep  baking  dijh  with  a  layer  of  cracker 
crumbs,  then  a  layer  of  corn  and  a  layer  of  tomatoes.  Seasoo 
well  with  salt,  pepper  and  lumps  of  butter,  then  another  layer  of 
cracker  crumbs,  corn  and  tomatoes  until  you  have  the  quantity 
desired,  then  pour  over  enough  sweet  milk  to  cover  well  and  bake. 

BOSTON  BAKED  BEANS. 

Mrs.    Ada    Morison. 

One  pint  beanj  soaked  over  night.  In  the  morning  drain  and 
place  in  bean  pot  with  one-half  pound  or  fresh  or  salt  pork  and 
one-half  cup  of  molasses.  Cook  with  hot  water,  adding  more  water 
as  it  evaporates.      Bake  four  hours. 

Mrs.    Chas    Thies. 

Soak  one  quart  of  beans  over  night,  then  boil  until  you  can 
pierce  with  a  pin,  put  in  a  baking  dish  with  one-quarter  pound  of 
pork,  one-fourth  cup  of  molasses,  one  teaspoonful  mustard,  and 
bake  eigh^  hours,  keep  covered  with  water  until  the  last  hour,  raise 
meat  to  surface  and  brown.  If  you  do  not  like  pork  add  more  salt 
and  one-third  cup  butter.  I  add  one  onion  while  boiling,  and  un- 
less pork  is  fresh  prefer  the  butter. 

MINT  SAUCE  FOR  LAMB  ROAST. 

Mrs.    W.    A.    James 

Two  tablespoons  mint  chopped  fine,  two  tablespoons  vinegar, 
two  tablespoons  water,  one  tablespoon  sugar.  Mix  all  together, 
but  don't  cook. 

17 


TURKISH  PILAFF. 

Mrs.  W.  S.  Ward. 
Into  one  and  one-half  cups  of  soup  stock  put  two  cups  of 
stewed  and  strained  tomatoes,  and  set  on  the  stove  to  boil.  When 
that  point  is  reached,  add  one  cup  of  rice  and  one-half  teaspoonful 
of  salt,  stirring  occasionally  with  a  fork  until  the  liquor  is  ab- 
sorbed and  the  grains  of  rice  separate.  Then  add  one-half  cup 
of  butter  and  cook  in  double  boiler  until  tender.  Remove  the  cover 
and  stir  with  fork  before  serving. 

GREEN  PEAS. 

Miss  Josephine  IDdwords. 
Slice  a  small  onion  and  fry  for  a  few  minuLej,  then  put  in 
your  peas,  with  one  sugar -spoon  of  sugar,  pepper  and  salt  to  taste, 
and  after  the  peas  begin  to  boil  put  in  a  small  lump  of  butter. 
When  ready  to  serve,  beat  up  three  teaspooUg  of  milk,  with  one 
egg  in  your  vegetable  dish,  then  pour  in  peas,  stirring  as  you 
pour  them. 

SPAGHETTI  AND  TOMATOES. 

Mrs.  W.  A.  Pinkerton. 
Put  spaghetti  in  boiling  salt  water  and  cook  30  minutes.  Turn 
into  colander  and  pour  cold  water  over  it.  Strain  can  of  toma- 
toes, add  pinch  of  soda  and  cook  a  few  minutej.  Grease  a  baking 
dish  and  put  in  a  layer  of  spaghetti,  sprinkle  with  a  little  grated 
cheese,  cracker  crumbs  salt,  pepper  and  butter.  Pour  over  thi.s 
part  of  the  tomatoes,  add  more  spaghetti,  etc.,  until  dish  is  filled. 

JAMBOLI. 

Mr.s.  J.  M.  Randolph. 
Mince  two  slices  of  bacon  and  half  an  onion  and  fry  until 
brown,  then  add  four  tomatoes,  one  cup  rice,  one  teaspoon,  salt  and 
a  pod  of  red  pepper.  Put  in  a  pint  of  water  and  keep  adding 
water  as  needed  until  rice  is  done,  then  boil  dry  and  serve.  Be 
careful  to  stir,  an  it  is  easily  burnt. 

WHOLE  WHEAT  FAMILY  BREAKFAST  FOOD„ 

Mrs.  L,.  A.  Kennedy. 
Get  the  wheat  from  the  mill  or  farmer.  Pour  a  cupful  on  a 
white  platter.  Look  it  over  carefully  and  remove  all  black  par- 
ticles, then  wash  in  two  waters.  Put  the  wheat  into  a  cooking 
vessel  with  a  tight  lid,  to  prevent  steam  from  escaping.  Cover 
with  water  and  add  a  little  salt.  Cook  slowly  until  grain  ,  open. 
Serve  one  or  two  rablespoonfuls  wi'h  milk. 


MAYONNAISE  DRESSING. 

MAYONNAISE  MAKING  SIMPLIFIED. 

Mrs.  H.  C.  Cole. 
Have  the  egg.  the  oil  and  the  bowl  cold.  Put  into  the  bowl  the 
yolk  of  one  egg,  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  one-half  teaspoon  sugar,  a 
da..h  of  cayenne  or  Tobasco  sauce,  and  if  one  likes  mustard,  one- 
fourth  spoonful.  Mix  this  quite  smooth  with  one  tablespoonful 
vinegar  or  lemon  juice.  When  it  is  quite  blended,  add  a  small 
spoonful  of  oil,  beat  very  hard  until  it  is  well  mixed,  then  another 
.poonful  and  beat  and  another,  then  a  tablespoonful,  beating  hard 
all  the  time.  When  it  becomes  thick,  you  can  thin  with  about  two 
tablespoonsful  of  vinegar  or  lemon  juice,  thickening  again  with  oil 
You  can  use  a  pint  of  oil  with  one  yolk,  and  two  yolks  will  be  plenty 
for  a  quart  of  oil  if  you  wish  a  larger  amount.  Should  you  fail, 
begin  with  a  fresh  yolk  and  when  it  is  well  started  use  the  "failure" 
to  thicken  the  new  batch,  don't  throw  it  away  as  useless.  Some- 
times to  flavor  the  mayonnaise  you  can  use  Tarragon  vinegar,  just 
a  trifle,  or  mint  vinegar,  or  rub  the  bowl  with  garlic. 

MAYONNAISE  DRESSING. 

Miss  Pearl  Gorsuch. 
Yolks  of  four  eggs  well  beaten,  add  four  tablespoonsful  of 
vinegar,  one  tablespoon  of  sugar,  one  teaspoon  of  mustard,  one 
salt,  pinch  of  cayenne  pepper.  Rub  well  together  and  add  to 
vinegar  and  eggs.  Last  of  all  add  butter  size  of  hickory  nut 
Cook  until  creamy.  Then  remove  from  fire  and  beat  until  cool. 
Add  one  pint  whipped  cream  just  before  serving. 

CREAM  SALAD  DRESSING. 

Mrs.    W.    W.    Collier. 

Rub  the  yolk'j  of  two  hard  boiled  eggs  very  fine,  adding  by 
degrees  a  desert  spoonful  of  mixed  mustard  and  a  tablespoon  melted 
bu*ter,  one-half  cup  of  cream,  one  tablespoon  of  horse  radish,  one- 
half  teaspoon  salt  and  pepper,  a  few  dropi  of  Worchestershire  sauce. 
Add  carefully  enough  vinegar  to  reduce  to  a  creamy  consistency. 
Pour  on  a  bed  of  lettuce  and  serve. 

19 


SALADS. 


SALMON  SALAD. 

Mrs.    J.    W.    Spinner. 
Dissolve   one    package   gelatine   in    three-fourtho   cup   hot   may- 
onaise;   add  to  this  one  cup  salmon,  one-half  cup  water,  one  green 
pepper,  one-half  cup  celery  or  cabbage,  one  table-spoon  vinegar,  two 
tablespoon  chopped  olives,  one  teaspoon  salt. 

Mrs.  W.  A.  Pinkerton. 
One  can  salmon,  three  times  its  quantity  of  finely  chopped 
cabbage;  season  with  salt,  pepper  and  celery  seed  and  add  the 
following  dressing.  One  tablespoon  butter  rubbed  in  a  little  flour, 
one  tablespoon  dry  mustard,  one  teaspoon  pepper,  one  teaspoon 
salt,  two  teaspoons  brown  sugar.  Mix  with  a  little  hot  water  and 
add  yolks  of  two  eggs  well  beaten)  and  one  cup  cream.  Cook 
until  z-eaches  boiling  point.      Let  cool  then  add  vinegar  to  taste. 

NUT  SALAD. 

Mrs.   Wm.   Bryden. 
Walnuts,   butter   nuts   or   pecan   nuts   make   a   delicious   salad. 
Have  half  as  many  meat  nuto  broken  into  pieces  as  you  have  crisp 
cut    celery,    and    mix    them    with    mayonnaise    dressing.      Serve    on 
lettuce  leaves. 

SHRIMP  SALAD. 

Mrs.   Ij  Yourtee.  ' ■'■     '    •• 

One  can  shrimp,  one  head  lettuce,  two  tablespoons  cliopped 
capers.  Turn  shrimp  from  can  and  remove  black  ligament.  Dre.s 
with  French  dressing  and  set  on  ice.  Clean  and  crisp  the  inside 
leaves  of  lettuce  and  arrange  in  salad  bowl.  Sprinkle  with  finely 
chopped  ice.  Turn  the  shrimp  into  the  center,  dress  wiUi  mayon 
naise  and  sprinkle  with  capers. 

Miss    Maryalma    Thies. 
One  pink  fresh  shrimp  (or  two  cans  of  shrimp),  one  cup  celery 
and  one   small   cup   pecans.      Remove   black   ligament   from   shrimp, 
cut  celery  in  small  pieces,   and   use  pecans  in  large  pieces.      Seive 
on  lettuce  leaves  with  Thousand  Island  dressing. 

20 


CUCUMBER  SALAD. 

Mrs.  Win.  Hempler. 
Boil  potatoes  in  salt  water  and  cut  up  when  cold.  Slice  two 
cucumbers  and  one  onion  and  one  head  tender  lettuce.  Sprinkle 
with  a  little  celery  seed.  Dressing— One -half  cup  rich  milk,  one- 
half  cup  vinegar,  one  teaspoon  sugar,  pinch  salt,  one  teaspoon  pre- 
pared mustard.  When  this  boils  thicken  with  two  teaspoons  flour. 
When  dressing  is  cold  pour  over  salad  and  serve. 

CHICKEN  SALAD. 

Mrs.    Ijizzie    A.    Zang. 
One  chicken   boiled   tender,   two  cup.s  celery  cut  fine,   one  cup 
of    any    kind    nutmeats.      Mix    with    mayonaise    dressing.      If    liked 
several    hardboiled    eggs    may    be    added.      Cut    chicken    and    celery 
with  scissors  in«tead  of  grinding. 

EGG  AND  CHEESE  SALAD. 

Mrs.  T.  J.  Howorth. 
Slice  a  dozen  hard  boiled  eggs  and  put  a  layer  of  egg  into  a 
salad  dish,  grate  on  a  thick  covering  of  cheese,  then  another  layer 
of  egg;  alternating  with  the  cheese  until  the  eggs  are  u-jed  up. 
Sprinkle  over  the  top  a  few  capers  and  finely  chopped  pickles. 
Pour  over  it  mayonnaise  and  cover  with  grated  cheese. 

HERRING  SALAD. 

Mrs.  Fred  Von  Gruenigen. 
Soak  three  herring  over  night,  then  skin  and  pick  out  all 
bone:.,  and  cut  into  small  cubes.  Boil  three  small  potatoes  with 
jackets,  peel  and  cut  into  cubeg  when  cold.  Five  medium  apples 
peeled  and  cut  into  cubes,  a  few  sour  cucumber  pickles  and  red 
beets  cut  into  cubes  also.  Take  small  piece  of  bacon  cut  up  fine, 
brown  and  pour  over  other  mixture  and  add  vinegar  to  taste.  Then 
mix  thoroughly  but  gently. 

SALTED  ALMONDS. 

Mis.s  Marie  Middendorf. 
To  prepare  salted  almonds  blanch  them  by  pouring  boiling  wa- 
ter over  them,  and  after  they  have  stood  a  few  minutes,  put  them 
in  cold  water  and  rub  the  brown  skino  .  Dry  and  measure  them. 
Sprinkle  a  teaspoon  of  olive  oil  over  each  cup  of  nuts;  let  stand  two 
hours,  sprinkle  one  teaspoon  salt  over  each  cupful  mixing  thorough- 
ly.     Spread  in  pan  and  place  in  oven  until  a  delicate  brown. 

21 


CHEESE  STRAWS. 

Mrs.    Hattie    Walsh. 
Grate  any  quantity  of  cheese,  same  quantity  of  flour,  add  sail 
and  dash  of  cayenne  pepper,  mix  with  ice  water,   use  fork  and  set 
on  ice  till  chilled,   roll  thin,   cut   in  strips  and   bake.     Serve   with 
salads. 

Mrs.    Mollie    Dowell. 
One-half  cup  butter,  2  cups  grated  cheese,  one  tablespoon  wa- 
ter, a   little   salt,   one  cup   flour,   pinch  cayenne   pepper.     Mix,   roll 
thin,  cut  in  strips  one-half  inch  wide  and  six  inches  long,  bake  until 
light  brown. 

WALDORF  SALAD. 

Miss   Alice   Crissey. 
Two    cups    celery    cut    fine,    one    cup    chopped    apples,    one-half 
cup  chopped  nuts,  hickory  or  English  walnuts.      Mayonnaise  dre  ,s- 
ing. 

DEVILED  EGGS. 

Mrs.   Gus   Knapp. 
Take   six   hard    boiled    eggs   cut    in    halves,    remove    yolk    antl 
mash  fine.     Add  a  tablespoon  prepared  mustard,  one  grated  onion, 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste,  moisten  with  vinegar  to  consistency  of  dry 
paste,  and  fill  the  halves  of  eggs. 

PERFECTION  SALAD. 

Mrs.  P.  E.  Stadler. 
Dissolve  one  package  Knox  gelatine  in  one  pint  boiling  water. 
When  cold  add  juce  of  three  lemons,  one-half  cup  sugar,  one  tea- 
spoon salt,  one  cup  celery,  one  cup  cabbage,  one  cup  nuts  all  chop- 
ped very  fine,  also  one  small  can  pimentos.  Pour  into  moulds,  when 
set  serve  on  crisp  lettuce  leaves. 

FRUIT  SALAD  DRESSING. 

Miss  Edith  Staley. 
Three  whole  eggs,  beat  light,  one  teaspoon  salt,  three  heaping 
tablespoons  sugar,  one-half  cup  vinegar  or  lemon  juice,  one-half 
cup  boiling  water,  butter  size  of  egg,  when  hot  add  tablespoon  flour 
mixed  with  a  little  cold  water,  stir  all  the  time,  add  one  cup  whip- 
ped cream  just  before  serving. 

22 


A  DELICIOUS  SALAD. 

Mi-.s.    Josc'ijh    Kiiaijp. 

One  cup  each  of  pineapple,  marshmallow,  shredded  cabbage, 
nut  meats,  and  grapes.  Mix  with  sweetened  mayonnaise  just  be- 
fore serving. 

CHERRY  AND  PINEAPPLE  SALAD. 

Mrs.    .Joseph    Knapp. 

To  one  cup  of  shredded  pineapple  add  two  bananas  sliced,  one 
cup  of  stoned  cherries,  one  cup  nutmeats  chopped,  the  juice  of  half 
a  lemon,  and  powdered  sugar  to  ta^te.  Make  French  dressing,  using 
cherry  juice  for  vinegar,  and  serve  on  c.isp  lettuce  leaver. 

FRUIT  SALAD  DRESSING. 

Miss  Margaret  Bcare. 
Two  whole  eggs  well  beaten,  Uiree  tablespooug  sugar,  one  scant 
cup    vinegar    diluted    if   very   strong)    or   lemon    juice.      Cook    until 
thick  stirring  often.     When  ready  to  serve  add  one-half  cup  cream, 
whipped    if   des'red. 

PRUNE  SALAD. 

Mrs.  P.  N.  Ellis. 
Cook  one-half  pounds  prunes,  with  one-fourth  teaspoon  salt 
and  one-half  teaspoon  paprika,  cut  prunes  in  length-wise  strips.. 
Cut  one-fourth  pound  pecans  in  four  pieces  each.  Beat  one  cup 
double  cream  and  two  tablespoons  lemon  juice  till  firm,  mix  three- 
fourths  of  cre^m  with  prunes  etc.  Arrange  on  lettuce  leavej  and 
decorate  with  nuts  and  rest  of  cream. 

PEAR  SALAD. 

Mrs.    P.    N.    Ellis. 

Select  perfect  halveg  of  canned  pears.  Arrange  on  hearts  of 
lettuce.  Fill  pears  with  the  following  dressing:  Into  one  cup  of 
heavy  cream  crumble  one  cake  of  cream  cheese,  beat  till  firm 
sprinkle  with  nuts. 

MARSHALLOW  SALAD. 

Mrs.  R.  C.  Mann 
One  pound  marshmallows,  one  can  sliced  pineapple,  one-half 
pound  nuts,  dice  these  and  mix.  DRESSING:  One  cup  pine- 
apple juice,  three  tablespoons  sugar,  two  tablespoons  butter,  one 
talilespoon  corn  starch,  two  eggs,  stir  and  cook  until  thick,  pour 
over  mixture. 

23 


POTATO  SALAD. 

Mrs.   Prank  C.   Hirte. 

•Slice  one  quart  of  cold  boiled  potatoes,  one  small  onion,  and 
three  hard  boiled  eggs.  Season  to  taste,  and  mix.  Add  following 
dressing:  One-half  pint  vinegar  sweetened  to  taste,  one  teaspoon 
mustard,  a  piece  of  butter  size  of  an  egg,  one  tablespoon  cream. 
Let  come  to  boiling  point  and  pour  over  other  ingredients;  garnish 
with  slices  of  hard  boiled  eggs. 

Mrs.  J.  M.  Tindall. 

Six  boiled  potatoes,  isliced  while  hot  and  allowed  to  cool.  One 
small  onion  minced  fine.  One-half  teaspoon  salt.  Two  hard  boil- 
ed eggs  cut  fine.  One-fourth  teaspoon  pepper.  Use  egg  yolks,  mix 
with  pepper,  salt,  mustard,  one-third  cup  vinegar,  one  tablespoon 
melted  butter  and  one-half  cup  cream.  Ser\^  on  lettuce  leaves. 
Pickled  onions  may  be  added. 

Mrs.    H.    C    Adderly. 

Boil  ten  or  twelve  potatoes  with  jackets  on.  When  cold  skin 
and  chop  very  fine  with  three  onions.  Season  with  salt,  pepper 
and  celery  seed.  Dressing:  Two  eggs,  one  tablespoon  sugar,  one 
tablejpoon  butter,  one  tablespoon  prepared  mustard,  one  tea-cup 
vinegar,  add  a  little  water  if  vinegar  is  too  strong.  Cook  all  to- 
gether until  thick.  When  cold  pour  over  potatoes,  then  add  cup 
of  cream. 

Mrs    Henry    Dandes. 

For  eight  large  potatoes  sliced  when  cold  use  one  grated  onion, 
salt  and  pepper  to  taste.  Put  in  frying  pan  three  tablespoons  ham 
or  bacon  grease,  three-fourths  cup  vnegar,  one-fourth  cup  water, 
two  tablespoons  sugar,  pour  while  boiling  hot  over  potatoes,  serve 
at  once.      Slice  cold,  hard  boiled  egg.3  over  salad. 

Emma    Bigelow. 

One  cup  chopped  cabbage,  one  cup  boiled  potatoes  cut  in 
small  pieces,  sugar,  ground  mustard,  one  teaspoon  black  pepper, 
butter  size  of  walnut,  one  egg,  two  tablespoons  vinegar.  Beat  egg 
and  butter  with  the  vinegar,  heat  and  pour  over  the  other  in- 
gredi€(nts.     Salt  to  taste. 

24 


SPAGHETTI  SALAD. 

Miss  Metta  K.  Duden. 
Boil  one  cup  of  spaghetti  in  salted  water  until  tender,  turn 
into  colander  and  dash  cold  water  over  it,  and  then  set  on  ice  until 
thoroughly  cold.  Before  serving  add  one-half  cup  of  celery  and 
a  few  pimentos,  two  hard  boiled  eggs,  a  small  cucumber,  a  few 
tender  nasturtium  leaves  and  buds,  all  finely  cut  and  mix  with  a 
cup  of  jalad  dressing.     Serve  on  large  nasturtium  leaves. 

DALE  SALAD. 

Mrs.    W.    H.    Schuwerk. 
One  can  of  peas,  two  cups  celery  cut  fine,  one  cup  chopped  nuts, 
one-half  can  pimentoes,  three  hard  boiled  eggs,  one-half  cup  grated 
cheese,  one  cup  seeded  grapes  or  white  cherries.      Add  mayonnaise 
dressing. 

CREAM  POTATO  SALAD. 

Mrs.  S.  E.  McMurry. 
Beat  the  yolk  of  four  eggs,  add  four  tablespoons  strong  vine- 
gar, two  tablespoons  sugar,  one  tablespoon  ground  mustard.  Cook 
in  double  boiler  until  thick.  Cut  ten  small  boiled  potatoes  into 
dice,  and  add  one  small  minced  onion,  salt  to  taste,  one  teaspoon 
celery  seed.  Pour  dressing  over  potatoes  and  at  serving  time  add 
one  cup  whipped  cream.     Chopped  celery  may  be  added. 


25 


BREAD,  MUFFINS,  ETC. 

RYE  BREAD. 

Mrs.  Chauncey  Staley. 
One  and  one-half  quarts  warm  water,  two  tablespoons  sugar, 
two  Fleishman's  yeast  cakes,  two  tablespoons  salt,  two  tablespoons 
melted  lard,  flour.  Dissolve  yeast  and  sugar  in  water,  add  lard 
and  enough  wheat  flour  to  make  a  light  sponge;  add  salt  and  beat 
well.  Work  in  enough  rye  flour  to  make  a  stiff  dough;  let  rise 
about  two  hours,  shape  into  loaves,  let  rise  one  hour  and  bake. 

WHOLE  WHEAT  BREAD. 

Mrs.  M.  C.  Crissey. 
Two  tablespoons  lard,  two  tablespoons  sugar,  one  tablespoon 
salt,  one  pint  each  of  hot  water  and  milk.  One  cake  of  yeast  dis- 
solved in  one-half  cup  of  warm  water,  two  cups  of  white  flour, 
enough  whole  wheat  flour  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Mix,  knearl  ten 
minutes,  let  rise  twice  its  size.  Place  in  greased  pans,  let  rise 
until  puffy  and  bake. 

RAISIN  BREAD. 

Mrs.    W.    A.    Glore. 

Three    pints    flour,    half    teacup    lard,    one    teacup    each    yeast 

sponge    and    sugar,    tablespoon    salt,    two    teacups    seeded    raisins, 

enough   water   to   make   a   soft   dough,    cinnamon    or   spice    may   be 

added  to  flavor.      Let  it   rise  twice  and   bake   same  as  light   bread. 

BREAKFAST  ROLLS. 

Miss  L.  Blanch  Schlensker. 
One  tablespoon  butter,  one  quart  flour,  one-half  cake  yeast, 
one  pint  sweet  milk,  one-half  teaspoon  salt.  Scald  the  milk  at 
night,  add  the  butter,  let  cool,  then  add  he  flour  and  salt,  mix  well 
and  beat  briskly  for  ten  minutes  and  put  in  a  warm  place.  In  the 
morning  roll  out  to  one-half  inch  thickness,  cut  with  cutter,  fold 
over  (half  round),  wetting  a  little  between  folds  to  make  stick. 
Put  on  buttered  tins  (not  touching  each  other),  let  rise  45  min- 
utes, bake  20  minutes  in  a  moderate  oven,  brush  over  with  milk 
to  gloss.  The  same  rule  may  be  followed  for  tea  rolls  by  setting- 
the  yeast  in  the  morning  instead  of  at  night. 

26 


RICE  CORN  BREAD. 

Mrs.     Postal. 

Boil  one  scant  cup  rice  in  water  until  soft  and  every  grain  sep- 
arates. Take  pint  corn  meal  and  scald  with  pint  sweet  milk.  Stir 
in  rice  while  meal  and  milk  are  hot.  Beat  four  eggs  separately  and 
stir  in,  add  a  little  :iugar  and  tablespoon  butter  and  pinch  of  salt. 

OYSTER  SANDWICH, 

Mrs.  M.  G.  Keller. 
One  pint  raw  oysters  chopped  fine,  one  fourth  teaspoon  salt, 
one-eighth  teaspoon  pepper,  put  in  sauce  pan  with  two  tablespoons 
butter  and  three  tablespoons  crackei-  crumbs.  Heat  until  steam- 
ing, add  half-cup  thick  sweet  cream  in  which  has  been  beaten  the 
yolks  of  two  raw  eggs  and  stiru  ntil  the  mixture  thickens.  When 
cold  serve  between  slices  of  buttered  bread.  This  is  excellent  for 
lunch. 

BROWN  BREAD. 

Mrs.    J.    M.    Dickson. 
One  pint   molasses,   one  quart   but'ermilk,   one  cup   oUgar,   two 
eggs,    butter   size    of    egg,    one    teaspoon    salt,    two    teaspoons    soda, 
Jlraham  flour  to  make  rather  stiff.      Bake  in  tin  cans. 

FRENCH  ROLLS. 

Mrs.    Elias    Feaman. 
One  pint  sponge,  one-half  pint  sweet  milk,  one  tablespoon  lard, 
one  tablespoon  sugar,  pinch  of  salt.      Do  not  make  too  stiff. 

NUT  BREAD. 

Mrs.    C.    H.    Thies. 
Two   eggs,    one-half  cup    brown    sugar,    one-half   cup    molasses, 
one  cup  flour,  two  and  one-half  cup  graham  ^our  (sifted)   twc  cups 
four  ;pilk,   one  cup   chopped   nuts,   one   teaspvon    salt  and    tv/o   tea- 
spoon-- soda.      Bake  thirty  minutes. 

WAFFLES. 

Miss   Myra   M.   ^Morrison. 

Beat  four  eggs  until  light,  then  add  tw^o  tablespoons  sugar, 
one  quart  sweet  milk,  one  quart  flour,  one  teaspoon  salt,  four  tea- 
spoons baking  powder.  Beat  batter  until  smooth  then  add  four 
tablespoons  melted  lard.      Will  serve  six  or  eight  persons. 

27 


STEAMED  BROWN  BREAD. 

Mrs.    T.    J.    Howorth. 
Two    cups    sour    milk,    one    cup    mola  ;ses,    two    and    one-half 
cups   corn   meal,    two   cups   flour,   two   teaspoons   soda.      Steam    two 
and  one-half  hours.      Bake  one-half  hour. 

NANTUCKET  BROWN  BREAD. 

Mr.s.  E.  P.  Bronson. 
One  pint  of  corn  meal,  one-half  pint  of  Graham  flour,  one 
pint  of  sour  milk,  one-half  teacup  of  molasses,  one-half  teaspoon- 
ful  soda,  one  teaspoonful  salt,  one-half  cup  of  raisins.  Steam 
three  hours,  and  if  neccessary,  place  in  the  oven  a  few  minuter. 
This  makes  a  medium  sized  loaf. 

BAKED  BROWN  BREAD. 

Mrs.  E.  P.  Gray. 
Mix  two  and  one-half  cups  sour  milk  with  one-half  cup  sugar, 
four  cups  Graham  flour,  two  teajpoons  soda,  ag  many  raisins  as 
liked,  three-fourths  cup  molasses,  a  pinch  of  salt.  Let  stand  in 
cans  in  which  it  is  to  be  baked  one  hour,  put  on  covers  and  bake 
slowly  one  hour. 

CORN  BREAD. 

Mrs.    E.   J.   Gale. 
One  cup  corn   meal,   one-half  cup   flour,  one  tablespoon   sugar, 
pinch  of  salt,  one-half  teaspoon  soda,   one  cup  sour  milk,   one-half 
cup  sweet  milk,  one  large  tablespoon  cream  or  melted  butter,  one 
egg. 

Miss  Clem  Cole. 
One  egg,  two  teaspoong  sugar,  one  cup  sweet  milk,  one  tea- 
spoon salt,  one  cup  meal  and  one  cup  flour  sifted  with  one  and 
one-half  teaspoons  baking  powder,  one-half  cup  melted  butter. 
Bake  in  shallow  bread  pans  or  gem  pans.  Have  pan  hot  and  well 
larded  before  putting  in  the  bather. 

EGOLESS  CORN  BREAD. 

Mrs.    W.    W.    Collier. 
Two  cups  sOur  milk,  one  teaspoon  soda,  one-half  teaspoon  salt. 
three    cups    cornmeal.      Mix    well,    add    one    teaspoon    lard.      Pour 
into  pan  and  bake  in  moderate  oven. 

28 


COFFEE  CAKE. 

Mrs.    Rose    Tackenberg. 

One  and  one-half  pints  bread  dough,  one  egg,  one  teaspoon 
salt,  one  table  ;poon  lard,  one-half  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  milk, 
Make  a  soft  dough  and  let  rise.  Work  into  layers  and  again  rise. 
Melt   butter  and   put  over  top  with  sugar  and  cinnamon;    bake. 

Mrs.  R.  Aszman. 
One  cup  sweet  milk,  two  cups  sugar,  one  cup  butter,  three 
well  beaten  eggs,  three  teaspoons  baking  powder  worked  into 
flour  enough  to  make  stiff  dough;  roll  thin  and  sift  ground  cin- 
namon on  the  sheet  and  roll  into  a  roll,  cut  slices  about  one- 
quarter  inch  thick  and  place  on  tins.  Before  baking  sprinkle  rather 
thickly  with  granulated   (or  powdered)  sugar. 

DUTCH  COFFE  CAKE. 

Mrs.  C.  P.  Weinrich. 
One  quart  light  bread  sponge,  one  pint  sweet  milk,  two  table- 
spoons melted  butter,  one  cup  sugar,  one  egg.  nutmeg.  Flour 
not  to  make  so  stiff  as  bread.  Let  rise.  When  light  put  in  pan^. 
Let  rise  again  and  spread  with  butter,  sugar  and  nutmeg  and 
bake. 

MUFFINS. 

Mrs.    H.    E.    Mann. 
One   egg,   two   tablespoons   butter,   two   tablespoons    sugar,    one 
cup  milk,  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  two  and  one-half  cups  flour,  three 
and  one-half  teaspoons  baking  powder.      Very  hot  oven. 

Mrs.    T.    J.    Howortb. 
One  egg,  two  tablespoons  sugar,  one  cup  sweet  milk,  pinch  of 
salt,  two  cups  flour,  two  teaspoons  baking  powder,  piece  of  butter 
:Aze  of  egg  melted  and  put  in  last.      Bake  in  quick  oven. 

GRAHAM  MUFFINS. 

Mrs.    Chas.    Oausniaii. 

Mix  one  pint  Graham  flour,  one  egg,  one  tablespoon  melted 
butter,  one  tablespoon  brown  sugar  or  molasses,  one-half  teaspoon 
salt,  one  teaspoon  baking  powder,  enough  milk  to  make  a  thick 
batter. 

29 


NUT  BREAD. 

Mrs.   Lillian   Pinnero. 
Mix  four  cups  of  flour,  four  teaspoons  baking  powder,  one-lialf 
cup  sugar,  a  little  salt,  one  egg,  one  cup  of  nuts  and  one  cup  of 
milk.      Let  rise  twenty  minutes  and  bake  three-fourth  of  an   hour. 

CORNMEAL  MUFFINS. 

Mrs.  Fred  Ruppert. 
Sift  together  three-fourths  cup  cornmeal,  one  and  one-fourth 
cups  wheat  flour,  one-fourth  cup  sugar,  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  four 
teaspoons  baking  powder.  Beat  one  egg,  add  one  cup  sweet  milk, 
and  three  tablespoons  of  melted  shortening  and  stir  into  the  dry- 
ingredients.  Bake  in  hot,  well  greased  muffin  pans  for  about  2.5 
minuteis. 

SCOTCH  SHORT  BREAD. 

Mrs.    J.    McAdams. 
One    pound    flour,    one-half    pound    butter,    one-quarter    pound 
sugar.      Mix  butter  and   sugar  together,   then  add  the   flour   gradu- 
ally.     Roll  out  three-quarters  inch  thick,  cut  in  any  desired  shape 
and  bake  in  papered  tins. 

SALLY  LUNN. 

Mr.s.  li.  W.  Morrison. 
One  quart  flour,  butter  size  of  egg,  two  eggs,  three  tablespoons 
sugar,  two  teacups  milk,  two  teaspoons  baking  powder  and  a 
little  salt.  Mix  flour,  baking  powder,  salt  and  sugar  together,  add 
milk  and  eggs,  melt  butter  in  a  little  hot  water  and  stir  steadily 
for  a  few  minutes,  split  open,  butter  and  serve  hot. 

Miss    Eugenia    Roberts. 
One   and   one-half  cups   flour,   two  eggj,   beat   whites   separate, 
one    cup    sugar,    one-half    teaspoon    salt,    one-half    cup    butter,    one 
teaspoon  baking  powder  and  two-thirds  cup  sweet  milk. 

FEATHER  GRIDDLE  CAKES. 

Mrs.    S.    A.    Douglas. 
One  pint  milk,  one  egg,  two  cups  flour,  two  teaspoons  of  baking 
powder.      The   addition   which   makes   these   cak&3   so    exceptionally 
lii^'ht  is  two  tablespoons  of  butter,   meajured   and   then   melted. 

30 


DATE  SANDWICHES. 

Mrs.     Myrtle    Marsh. 
Mix  one  pound  of  raisins,  one  pound  of  dates,  one-half  pound 
English,  walnuts   nieats,   grind  and   add  the  juice  and   pulp   of  tw.> 
oranges    an-^two    lemons,    one    cup    of    sugar    and    a    pinch    of    salt. 
Spread  on  buttered  bread. 

PARKER  HOUSE  ROLLS. 

Miss    Sophia    Peldman. 
One-fourth    cup    butter   and   scant    half   cup   sugar,    one    quart 
light  bread  sponge,  enough  flour  for  soft  dough.      Let  rise  twice  and 
roll  out  like  biscuits,  spread  butter  over  top,  and  fold  over  a  knife 
and  put  in  pan  and  let  rise  again  again  and  bake. 


31 


PIES. 


LEMON  PIE. 

Miss  Minnie  P.  Adams. 
Line  a  pie  plate  with  good  pie  crust,  bake,  then  fill  with  the 
following  filling:  Mix  one  heaping  tablespoon  flour  with  a  little 
water  and  three-fourths  of  a  cup  ofsugar,  add  one  cup  of  boiling 
water,  cook  until  thick,  then  add  juice  and  rind  of  one  lemon  and 
one  whole  egg,  yolks  of  two  eggs.  Take  from  fire  and  pour  into 
pie  shell,  set  in  oven  a  few  minutes,  then  cover  with  meringue. 

"Aunt    Jennie    Steber's. 
Three   eggs,    one    lemon    grated,    one    heaping    teaspoon    flour, 
one  cup  milk.     Squeeze  lemon  on  sugar,  add  flour,  beat  eggs,  add 
to  sugar,  then  milk,  leave  out  the  whites  of  two  eggs  for  top  of 
pie. 

Miss  Alice  Mehrer. 
Two  lemons,  12  table.3poons  sugar,  two  tablespoons  melted  but- 
ter,  two   tablespoons   of   flour,    12    tablespoons    water,   yolk    of   four 
eggs  using  whites  for  top.      Two  pies. 

Mrs.   Henry  Pohlman. 
One   lemon,    juice   and   grated    rind,    two   eggs,   six   tablespoons 
milk,  one  teablespoon  butter,  one  cup  of  sugar,  beat  the  whites  of 
two  eggs  for  the  top  of  the  pie.      Bake  the  crust  first. 

LEMON  CUSTARD  PIE. 

Mrs.    Carrie    Hathaway. 
Yolk  of  one  egg,  one-half  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  sweet  milk, 
two    crackers    rolled    fine,    juice    of    one    lemon.      Cook    until    thick, 
pour  into  previously  baked  crust  and  add  beaten  white  for  top. 

PINEAPPLE  PIE, 

•  Mrs.    Maurice    Mudd. 

One  cup  milk,  one-half  cup  sugar,  one-half  can  pineapple  (grat- 
ed) piece  of  butter  size  of  walnut,  yolks  of  three  eggs.  Use  whites 
for  top. 

32 


CHOCOLATE.  PIE. 

iMrs.    Win.    Barnard. 

Simmer  one  cup  milk  and  tour  tablespoons  chocolate  a  few 
minutes,  then  add  two  yolks  of  egg;,  two  tablespoons  cornstarch, 
six  tablespoons  sugar,  one-half  cup  milk,  cook  until  thick  and 
pour  into  pie  crust.  Add  meringue  of  whites  and  a  little  sugar 
and  brown. 

Mrs.    Laura   Brinkman. 

Place  two  cups  of  milk  in  a  double  boiler  and  let  it  get  thor- 
oughly heated.  Mix  one  cup  of  -sugar,  yolks  of  four  eggs,  butter 
size  of  a  walnut,  three  tablespoons  grated  chocolate  and  three 
tablespoons  cornstarch  dissolved  in  a  little  milk.  Stir  this  in  the 
hot  milk  and  let  cook  until  thick,  then  add  vanilla.  Bake  the  crust, 
when  cool  fill  with  chocolate  cu'jtard  and  put  the  beaten  whites  on 
top  and  return  to  the  oven  for  a  few  minutes  to  brown. 

STRAWBERRY  MERINGUE  PIE. 

Miss    Mattie    Nisbet. 
Bake    a    lower   crust,    then    fill    with    fresh    strawbe.Ties,    cover 
with    meringue    of    whites    of    two    eggs,    three    tablespoons    sugar. 
Bake  delicate  brown. 

CREAM  PIE. 

Mrs.    Chas.    Middlesworth. 
Pour  one  pin*^  cream  upon  a  cup  and  a  half  of  powdered  jugar 
tablespoon  flour  to  thicken,  and  let  stand  until  you  have  beaten  the 
whites  of  three  eggs,  add  eggs  and  a  little  nutmeg  to  the  cream  and 
bake  in  two  pies,  with  lower  crust. 

BANANA  PIE. 

Mrs.  CMclle  Weinrich. 
One  quart  rich  milk,  yolks  of  four  eggs,  teaspoon  vanilla,  four 
tablespoons  cornstarch,  one  cup  of  white  sugar.  Beat  the  yolks  of 
the  eggs  into  the  milk,  then  add  the  sugar,  moisten  the  cornstarch 
with  a  little  cold  milk  and  eggs,  boil  until  thick.  Place  a  layer 
of  banana  slices  in  a  baked  pie  crust,  pour  the  above  filling  into  the 
crust,  then  place  another  layer  of  banana  slices.  Beat  the  whites 
of  four  eggs  for  frosting,  place  the  pies  in  the  oven  for  a  few  min- 
utes.     This  recipe  makes  two  pies. 

33 


CRANBERRY  AND  RAISIN  PIE. 

Mrs.    A.    P.    Hohl. 
One  cup  cranberries,   one-half  cup  raisins,  chop  together;    one 
cup  sugar,   one-half  cup   water,   one  tablespoon  flour,   one  teaspoon 
vanilla.      Bake  with  two  crusts. 

CHESS  PIE. 

Mrs.    L.    Blanch    Schlensker. 
Cream    together   one   cup   sugar  and   heaping   teaspoon    butter. 
Add   three   eggs,   troroughly   beaten,   one   cup   sweet   milk,    one   tea- 
spoon cornstarch  and  vanilla. 

RHUBARB  PIE. 

Mr.s.  H.  Clay  Horner. 
Line  a  pie  pan  with  crust.      Peel  and   slice  the   rhubarb  thin, 
fill  the  pan  with  the  rhubarb  and  pour  evenly  over  the  top  a  cup  of 
sugar,   an   egg,   and   a   heaping   tablespoon    flour    creamed    together. 
Cover  with  top  crust  and  bake.      This  is   simple,  yet  excellent. 

RAISIN  PIE. 

Mrs.  Edw.  Meredith. 
Put  one  cup  of  raisins  into  a  stew  pan  with  one  cup  of  coM 
water  and  half  a  cup  of  sugar,  and  let  come  to  a  boil.  Have  a 
tablespoon  of  flour  stiiTed  smooth  in  five  tablespoons  of  water 
Stir  this  into  the  raisins,  stirring  them  constantly,  add  a  teaspoon 
ofb  utter  and  three  tablespoons  vinegar.  Cook  two  or  three  min- 
ues  and  bake  between  two  crusts. 

COCOANUT  PIE. 

Mrs     Emma    Baronnwsky. 
One   cup   sugar,    two   cups   milk,   three   eggs,    small    bo\    of   co- 
coanut.      S'ir   well  and  bake  with   under   crust. 

MOCK  MINCE  PIE. 

Mrs.    M.    C.    Crissey. 
Boil  two  Clips  of  rai  ins  in  two  cupg  of  water.      Add  four  brok- 
en crackers,  one  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  vinegar.      Allow  the  mix- 
ture  to    cool.      Add   a   dash    of   nutmeg   and    bake   in    covered    pies. 
This  is  enough  for  two  pies. 


WHITE  AMBER  PIE. 

Mrs.    A.    Hood. 
Three-fourths  cup  sour  milk,  one-half  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup 
raisins,  one  tablespoon  butter,  one  tablespoon  flour,  one  tablespoon 
vanilla,  two  yolko  of  eggs,  using  white]  for  meringue. 

AMBER  PIE. 

Miss    Mattie    Nisbet. 
Three-fourths  cup  sugar,  three-fourths  cup  sour  milk,  one-half 
cup   raisins,   one   tablespoon    flour,    one   table  ;poon    butter,    one   tea- 
spoon  vinegar,   one   teaspoon   of  spice    (cinnamon,    allspice,    cloves) 
yolks  of  two  eggs,  u-,e  whites  for  top. 

PEACH  PIE. 

Mr.s.  Clarence  L.  Staley. 
Line   a   pie-tin   with   puff   paste,   fill   with   sliced   peaches,   well 
covered  with  sugar,  add  three  tablespoons  rich  cream,  put  on  upper 
crust  and  bake. 

MINCE  MEAT. 

Mrs.  Ada  Morrison. 
Three  pounds  of  beef  from  round,  .:ix  pounds  apples,  one  and 
one-half  pounds  of  suet,  one  glass  grape  jelly, two  lemons,  grated 
peel  and  juice,  two  oranges,  one  and  one-half  pounds  brown  sugar, 
one  pint  molases,  three  grated  nutmegs,  one  teaspoon  mace,  four 
tablespoons  salt,  six  teaspoons  cinnamon,  two  teaspoons  ginger,  all- 
spice and  clove;,  one  and  one-half  pounds  citron,  two  pounds  raisins, 
two  of  currants. 

Mrs.  Wm.  Bryden. 
Four  pounds  of  lean  beef,  three  quarts  chopped  apples,  one 
qua.t  stoned  raisins,  one  quart  English  currants,  one  pint  suet, 
three  quarts  sugar,  one  fourth  pound  citron,  one-half  cup  salt,  one- 
half  cup  cinnamon,  one  tablespoon  cloves,  two  tablespoons  all- 
spice, two  tablespoons  mace,  three  nutmegs. 

Mrs.    A.    a.    Gordon. 

One  bowl  of  meat,  two  of  suet,  three  of  sugar,  two  of  currants, 
two  of  raisins,  five  of  chopped  apples,  two  tablespoons  each  of  cinna- 
mon and  cloves,  one  nutmeg,  one  tablespoon  salt,  ne  pound  citron. 
Boil  all  for  five  or  ten  minutes. 

35 


TWO-CRUST  LEMON  PIE. 

Mrs.     Irving    Douglas. 
Mix  three-fourths  cup  sugar,  two  eggs,  the  juice  and  pulp  of 
one  lemon.     Cut  the  pulp  of  lemon  in  small  pieces  and  let  the  mix 
ture   stand   while   making   the   crust.      Fill   and   bake   in   slow   oven. 
Enough  for  one  pie. 

PUMPKIN  PIE. 

Mrs.    E.    A.    Douglas. 
Beat  four  eggs  separately,  add  one  cup  sugar,  one  and  one-half 
cups  pumpkin,   one  and  one-half  cups  milk,   ginger,   cinnamon  and 
nutmeg  to  taste.     Three  pies. 

CARAMEL  PIE. 

Mrs.  H.  H.  Weinrich. 
Two  cups  sweet  milk  and  three  fourths  cup  sugar  heated  to 
boiling  point,  then  add  two  heaping  tablespoons  cornstarch  dissolved 
in  a  little  cold  milk,  and  two  egg  yolkg  mixed  with  the  moistened 
cornstarch.  Then  add  one  tablespoon  butter,  one  teaspoon  vanilla 
and  three  tablespoons  burnt  sugar  syrup.  Pour  into  baked  crust, 
add  meringue  and  brown  in  oven. 

CHOCOLATE  PIE. 

Mrs.   Prank  C.  Hirte. 
Cook  until  thick  custard  one  cup  milk,  one  tablespoon   cocoa, 
yolks   of   two   eggs   and  white    of   one   saving   remaining   white    for 
meringue,  one  tablespoon   cornstarch.      Pour  into  baked  crust,  add 
meringue  and  brown  in  oven. 

MOCK  CHERRY  PIE. 

Mrs.  Chas.  Gordon,  Sparta,  111. 
One  teacup  cranberries,  split  in  halves,  one  teacup  raisins, 
seeded,  one  teacup  sugar,  one  teacup  boiling  water,  two  small  table- 
spoons flour.  Mix  all  the  ingredients  adding  the  boiling  water  last. 
Cook  until  the  cranberries  seem  done  and  the  whole  a  smooth  mass 
then  put  into  a  previously  baked  pie  shell,  or  it  may  be  baked  as  an 
ordinary  pie  with  two  crusts. 

PIE  CRUST. 

Mrs.  Irving  Douglas. 
Mix  well  three  cups  flour,  one  cup  lard  or  Crisco;  add  one-half 
cup  cold  water,  knead  as  little  as  possible.      This  makes  two  large 
two  crust  pies. 

36 


BUTTER  SCOTCH  PIE. 

Katherine  Yourtee  Werner. 
Cook  in  double  boiler  until  thick  one  cup  brown  sugar,  one 
cup  milk,  one  heaping  tablespoon  butter,  three  rounding  table- 
spoons flour,  and  yolks  of  two  eggs,  leaving  whites  for  meringue. 
Bake  crust  separately  and  pour  custard  into  it.  Beat  whites  with 
a  pinch  of  salt,  and  baking  powder,  add  two  tablespoons  sugar,  beat 
until  stiff  and  brown  in  oven. 

DUTCH  APPLE  PIE. 

IMr.s.  Lizzie  A.  Zang-. 
Line  a  pie  pan  with  rich  paste,  sprinkle  about  one  tablespoon 
each  of  sugar  and  flour  in  bottom.  Then  fill  with  sliced  apples, 
add  half  cup  raisins,  a  little  nutmeg,  and  bits  of  butter,  springle 
liberally  with  sugar,  pour  over  all  enough  milk  to  fill  pan.  Bake 
until  apples  are  cooked,  when  almost  done  dot  top  with  marsh- 
mallows,  put  back  in  oven  to  brown. 


37 


PUDDINGS,  SHORTCAKES. 

SUET  PUDDING. 

Mrs.   B.   Sykes. 

Two  cups  bread  crumbs,  one-half  cup  suet,  one-half  cup  of 
dark  molasses,  one  egg,  one  cup  currants,  one  cup  milk,  one-half  tea- 
spoon each  soda,  cloves,  cinnamon  and  nutmeg.  Steam  two  hours. 
Serve  with  hard  sauce. 

Mrs.    Susan    Harrtier. 

One  cup  chopped  raisins,  one  cup  English  currantij,  one  cup 
sugar,  one  cup  suet,  two  cupi  flour,  one-half  cup  molasses,  and 
cold  water,  one-half  teaspoon  baking  powder,  spice  to  taste.  Bake 
one  hou/. 

MOCK  PLUM  PUDDING. 

Mrs.  D.  H.  Holman. 
One  cup  bread  crumbs,  browned  and  rolled  fine,  one-half  cup 
each  raisins  and  currants,  one  cup  chopped  apples,  one-half  cup 
butter,  one  cup  ougar,  teaspoon  each  cinnamon,  cloves  and  all- 
spice, put  in  pudding  dish,  cover  with  sweet  milk  and  bake  one-half 
hour.      Serve  with  any  kind  of  sauce. 

PLUM  PUDDING. 

Mrs.  P.  C.  Kennedy. 
One  cup  butter,  one  cup  sugar,  one  cup  sour  milk,  one  cup 
molassi3S,  three  eggs,  one  and  one-half  cup  5  bread  crumbs,  one  cup 
chopped  sue*,  one  cup  raisins,  one  cup  currants,  one  half  cup  dates, 
one-half  cup  figs,  one  teaspoon  soda,  two  anr  one-half  uups  flour. 
Flavor  with  spices  anh  vanilla.  Steam  in  pudding  moulds  four 
hours.      Serve  hot  with  sauce. 

SWANWICK  ENGLISH  PLUM  PUDDING. 

Mrs  Ada  Morrison. 
One  pound  of  bread  crumbs,  one-half  pound  suat,  one-half 
pound  flour,  one  pound  raisins,  one  pound  currant;,  one  pound 
brown  sugar,  one-fourth  pound  citron,  two  ounces  candied  orange 
peel,  two  ounces  candied  lemon  peel,  grated  rind  and  juice  of  one 
lemon,  seven  eggs,  big  tablespoon  ground  cloves,  two  tablespoons 
cinnamon,  ginger  and  nutmeg,  one  teaspoon  salt,  one-half  cup  milk. 

38 


APPLE  PUDDING 

Mrs.  Sarah  Stewart. 
Pare  some  ripe  apples  and  put  them  in  a  sauce  pan  with  a 
few  cloves,  some  orange  peel  and  stew  fifteen  minutes  in  two  cup- 
fuls  of  water.  Put  I  hem  in  the  pudding  dish,  having  made  the  fol- 
lowing custard:  One  pint  of  milk  or  cream,  four  eggs,  sugar  to 
taste,  a  pinch  of  salt  and  a  tablespoon  of  flour,  beat  eggg  and  sugar 
well,  add  the  flour,  some  ground  nulmeg,  add  cream,  slowly  stirring 
all  the  time.     Pour  this  over  apples  and  bake  in  quick  oven. 

WOODFORD  PUDDING. 

Mrs.  K.  A.  Douglas. 
Three  eggs,  one  teacup  sugar,  one-half  teacup  butter,  one  and 
one-half  teacup  flour,  one  teacup  jam  or  preserves,  one  teaspoon 
soda  dissolved  in  three  teaspoons  sour  milk,  cinnamon  or  nutmeg 
to  taste,  mix  thoroughly,  bake  slowly  and  serve  with  following 
sauce:  The  grated  rind  and  juice  of  two  oranges,  one  cup  sugar, 
a  piece  of  butter,  a  pint  of  hot  water,  and  cornstarch  to  slightly 
thicken. 

GRAHAM  PUDDING. 

Mrs.    Edward    Leslie. 

One  and  one-half  cups  Graham  flour,  one-half  cup  molasses, 
one-fouith  cup  melted  butter,  one-half  cup  sweet  milk,  one-half 
teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  warm  water,  one  cup  seeded  raisins, 
on!e  egg,  one  teaspoon  cinnamon,  one-half  teaspoon  cloves.  Steam 
two  hours.  .3AUCE — Two  eggs,  two  cups  milk,  four  tablespoons 
sugar,  a  pinch  of  salt,  one  tablespoon  butter,  one  tablespoon  vanilla. 
Mrs.  .1.  C.  Brown,  Sparta,  111. 

One  cup  sweet  milk,  one-half  cup  molasses,  one  cup  raisins,  one 
and  one-half  cups  Graham  flour,  one  teaspoon  .soda,  one  teaspoon 
salt.  Steam  two  hours.  SAUCE — Yolks  of  three  eggs,  nine  table- 
spoons sugar,  three  tablespoons  butter,  vanilla  to  taste.  Beat  very 
ligh'. 

FOOD  FOR  THE  GODS. 

Mrs.  Albert  "Welge. 
One-half  pound  English  walnuts,  one-fourth  pound  dates,  cut 
fine,  three  and  one-half  tablespoons  cracker  crumbs,  one  cup  gran- 
ulated sugar,  three  eggj  beaten  separately,  one  teaspoon  baking 
powder  mixed  with  cracker  crumbs.  Mix  dateg  and  nuts  witli 
sugar,  add  cracker  crumbs  then  add  eggs.  Bake  in  slow  oven  one- 
half  hour.  Cut  in  squares  when  cold  and  ^.erve  with  whipped  cream 
Serves  eight  people. 

39 


CHERRY  TAPIOCA  WITH  CREAM. 

Mrs.  H.  C.  Horner. 
Soak  one-half  cup  of  tapioca  over  night,  or  according  to  di 
rections  on  box,  add  the  juice  of  a  can  of  cherries,  with  a  little  water 
to  make  the  pint  altogether.  Cook  in  a  double  boiler  until  per- 
fectly clear,  adding  water  as  needed.  When  done  add  the  che.ries, 
seeded,  juice  of  one  lemon  and  sugar  to  ta^te.  Stir  well,  pour  into 
a  pudding  dish  and  bake  half  an  hour.  Serve  hot  or  cold  with 
plain  or  whipped  cream.  If  preferred,  serve  without  baking,  and  if 
fresh  cherries  are  used  the  lemon  juice  is  not  necessary. 

COTTAGE  PUDDING. 

Mrs.  Kendall  Cole. 
One-fourth  cup  butter,  two-third  3  cup  sugar,  one  egg,  one  cup 
milk,  two  and  one-fourth  cups  flour,  four  teaspoons  baking  powder, 
one  half  teaspoon  salt.  Cream  butter  adding  sugar  gradually  and 
egg  well  beaten.  Mix  and  sift  flour,  baking  powde.-  and  salt.  Ad,l 
alternately  with  milk  to  first  mixture;  turn  into  buttered  cake  pan, 
bake  thiry-five  minutes,  serve  with  lemon  or  vanilla  sauce.  LEM- 
ON SAUCE — One-third  cup  butter,  one  cup  sugar,  yolks  of  three 
eggs,  one-third  cup  boiling  water,  three  tablespoons  lemon  juice,  few 
gratings  of  lemon  rind.  Ci^eam  butter  and  sugar  gradually  and 
yolks  of  eggs  olightly  beaten;  then  add  wate.-  and  cook  over  boiling 
water  until  mixture  thickens.  Remove  from  range,  add  lemon 
juice  and  rind. 

BAKED  APPLES. 

Mrs.  Sig  C.  Heuer. 
Take  firm,  medium  sized  apples,  peel  and  core.      Mix  sugar  and 
flour  together  and  sprinkle  over  apples.      Fill  each  apple  with  candy 
"redhots"  and  put  a  few  in  pan  with  apples,  then  pour  enough  water 
over  them  to  make  sauce,  bake  in  moderate  oven. 

LEMON  PUDDING. 

Mr.s.  .1.  Fred  Gilster. 
Mix  one  pint  flour,  two  teaspoons  baking  powder,  one  table- 
spoon lard,  a  pinch  of  salt,  one  teaspoon  sugar  with  milk  enough  to 
make  a  dough.  Line  bottom  of  baking  dish  with  dough.  SAUCE  -. 
Three  eggs,  one-half  cup  butter,  two  scant  cups  sugar,  one  quart 
boiling  water,  juice  of  two  lemons  and  rind  of  one.  Pour  sauce 
over  dough  and  bake  in  moderate  oven.      Will  serve  eight  persons. 

40 


PERSIMMON  PUDDING. 

:\Ir.s.    O.    V.    Todd. 

Two  eggs,  one  cup  sugar,  one  pint  persimmon  pulp,  one  or  one- 
half  cup  butter,  two  teaspoons  baking  powder,  pinch  soda  in  per- 
simmon pulp,  one  pint  sour  milk  and  water,  one  teaspoon  cinnamon, 
flour  to  make  thin  batter,  bake  one  hour  in  moderate  oven. 

BURNT  SUGAR  CUSTARD. 

Miss    Edna   Smith. 
Make  a  plain  cuslard,  burn  two-thirds  cup  sugar,  stir  into  the 
warm  custard,  cool;  serve  with  nuts  and  whipped  cream  or  fruit. 

SAUCE  FOR  PLUM  PUDDING. 

Mrs.  John  Lickiss. 
Take  about  one  quart  boiling  water  and  a  piece  of  butter  size 
of  egg.      Melt  together  and  thicken  with  cornstarch  to  the  consis- 
ency    required,    flavor    with    whiskey,    brandy,    wine    or    any    other 
flavoring  desired  and  sweeten  to  taste. 

STRAWBERRY  SHORT  CAKE. 

Miss  Eliza  Mann. 
On'j  egg,  half  cup  butter,  one  cup  ^ugar,  two-thirds  cup  sweet 
milk,  two  cups  fiour,  one  and  one-half  teaspoons  baking  powder. 
Flavor  to  taste  and  bake  in  two  layers.  Just  before  serving  spread 
be'ween  layers  filling  of  one  cup  sugar,  white  of  one  egg  (not 
beaten),  one  cup  ma.;hed  berries.      Beat  the  filling  thirty  minutes. 

SHORT  CAKE. 

One-quar'er  cup  of  butter,  one  and  two-thirds  cups  of  flour, 
one  cup  sugar,  one  and  one-half  teaspoons  baking  powder,  one-half 
cup  milk  and  one  egg. 

COTTAGE  FRUIT  PUDDING. 

Mrs.  Chas.  Thies. 
Two  eggs,  one  cup  sugar,  butter  size  of  walnut,  one-half  cup 
sweet  milk,  one  and  one-half  cupg  flour,  two  teaspoons  baking 
powder.  Pour  in  a  pint  of  sweetened  plums  and  bake.  Any  kind 
of  fruit  may  be  used.  PUDDING  SAUCE — Four  tablespoons  sugar, 
two  of  butter  and  one  of  flour,  stir  together  to  a  cream,  beat  white 
of  an  egg  to  a  stiff  froth  and  add  to  a  gill  of  boiling  water,  stirring 
Very  fast.      Flavor  wi*h  lemon  or  vanilla. 

41 


CHOCOLATE  PUDDING. 

Miss  Emma  Weinrich. 
One  quart  of  sweet  milk,  one-half  package  Knox  gelatine  dis 
solved  in  one  cup  of  cold  water.  Boil  milk,  add  three-forths  cut 
sugar,  gelatine,  four  tablespoons  grated  chocolate  and  let  boil  ten 
minutes.  Then  beat  the  yolks  of  two  eggs,  to  which  add  a  little 
cold  water  and  stir  in  mixture.  Let  boil  again.  While  cooling  add 
beaten  whites  of  two  eggs.      Put  on  ice.      Serve  with  whipped  cream. 

SNOW  PUDDING. 

:Mrs.  Wm.  R.  MacKenzie. 
Pour  one  pint  boiling  water  over  one-third  box  gelatine  that 
has  been  soaked  in  a  little  cold  water,  add  one  and  one-halfs  cups 
sugar,  juice  of  two  large  lemons,  strain  and  set  away  to  get  cold. 
Have  ready  the  beaten  whites  of  three  eggs,  beat  all  together  twenty 
minutes  or  until  a  mass  of  snow,  mold  and  when  ready  serve  with 
this  custard:  One  pint  of  boiling  milk,  one-half  cup  of  sugar,  yolks 
of  three  eggs.      Flavor  to  taste. 

RICE  SNOW  BALLS. 

Mrs.  M.  C.  Crissey. 
Boil  one  pint  of  rice  until  soft,  with  teaspoon  salt.  Put  in 
small  cups,  and  when  cold  place  in  a  dish.  Make  a  boiled  cus- 
tard of  yolks  of  three  eggs,  one  pint  swe'et  milk,  and  one  teaspoon 
of  corn  starch;  flavor  with  lemon.  When  cold  pour  over  the  balls 
half  an  hour  before  serving. 

BREAD  PUDDING. 

Mrs.   Lil.  P.  Perry. 
One    cup    bread    crumbs,    two    cups    scalded    milk,    one    egg    or 
two  yolks,   one-fourth  cup   sugar,   one-eight  teaspoon  salt,    one-half 
teaspoon    vanilla    or    one-eighth    teaspoon    nutmeg,    one    tablespoon 
butter. 

ITALIAN  FIG  PUDDING. 

Mrs.    Wm.    R.    MacKenzie. 
One   pound    figs,    one   cup    suet,    two   cups    bread    c.umbs,    one- 
half  nutmeg,  three  eggs.      Cut  figs,  add  the  other  ingredients  with 
enough  milk  to  make  a  stiff  dough,  tie  in  a  cloth  and  boil  two  hours. 
Serve  with  any  sauce  denred. 

42 


QUEEN  OF  PUDDINGS. 

Mrs.  A.  G.  Gordon. 
One  pint  bread  crumbs,  one  quart  milk,  one  cup  sugar,  yolks 
of  four  eggs,  piece  butter  size  of  an  egg,  add  grated  rind  of  lemon. 
Bake  and  sPread  with  layer  of  jelly.  Whip  whites  of  eggs  stiff  with 
fivet  ablespoons  sugar,  and  juice  of  one  lemon.  Spread  On  top  and 
brown. 

PORTLAND  FANCY. 

Mis.s  Liaura  Von  Gueiiison. 
Slice  three  oranges  and  six  bananas,  chop  one-half  pound  Eng- 
lish walnuts,  dissolve  one  box  gelatine  with  one  and  one-half  pints 
hot  water  and  mix  grated  orange  peel.  When  cool  strain  through 
cloth  and  pour  over  alternate  layers  of  fruit  and  nuts.  Serve  with 
sauce  made  of  one  cup  sugar,  one  quart  milk,  one  tablespoon  coin- 
starch  and  two  eggs. 

ORANGE  SHORTCAKE. 

Miss  Metta  K.  Duden. 
Pare  five  oranges,  remove  the  pith  and  seeds,  and  cut  into 
small  pieces.  Cover  with  a  cupful  of  sugar  and  let  stand  for  an 
hour  or  so.  Just  before  serving  beat  the  whites  ot  three  eggs  to 
a  stiff  froth,  add  three  tablespoons  of  sugar,  and  beat  this  into  the 
oranges.  Use  your  favorite  baking  powder  biscuit  recipe  for  the 
pastry  part. 

ICE  BOX  PUDDING. 

Mrs.    .1.    E.    Clark.    Danville. 

Break  one-fourth  Angel,  Sunshine  or  Sponge  Cake  in  pieces, 
and  mould  in  layers  with  the  following  sauce.  Melt  two  ten  cent 
cakes  of  sweet  chocolate  with  three  tablespoons  hot  water.  Beat 
yolks  of  four  eggs  very  light  with  three  tablespoons  sugar,  stir  melt- 
ed chocolate  in  this,  then  add  beaten  whites.  Set  in  ice  box  over 
night,  or  several  hours.  Serve  in  sherbet  cups  with  whipped  cream. 
Enough  for  six  or  seven. 

DATE   PUDDING. 

Kunice    Holman    White. 

One  cup  chopped  dates,  one  cup  chopped  nuts,  two  eggs,  three 
tablespoons  flour,  two  and  one-half  teaspons  baking  powder,  one 
cup  sugar.  Mix  egg  yolks  with  dry  ingredients.  Beat  whites  sep- 
arate with  sugar,  then  add  to  other  mixture.  Bake  one  hour  in 
moderate  oven.      Serve  with  whipped  cream. 

43 


PRUNE  WHIP. 

Mrs.  E.  A.  Douglas. 
Stew  one  pound  of  prunes  until  very  tender  in  as  little  water 
as  possible.  Remove  pits,  stir  until  fine  and  add  two-thirds  cup 
sugar,  replace  over  fire  and  stir  constantly  until  boiling  hot.  Pour 
over  the  well  beaten  whites  of  four  eggs  and  continue  beating  ters 
minutes.  Add  the  grated  rind  and  juice  of  one  orange;  set  aside 
to  cool.      Serve  with  whipped  or  plain  cream. 

ENGLISH  PLUM  PUDDING. 

Mrs.   John  Lickiss 
One  pound  each  raisins  seeded,  currants,  sugar,  beef  suet,  chop- 
ped and  rolled  fine   (remove  all  strings),  soda  crackers  rolled  fine, 

one  dozen  eggs,  half  pound  butter,  teaspoon  ground  cloves,  one  nut- 
meg grated,  five  cents  worth  candied  lemon  peel  cut  fine,  half  tea- 
cup cornstarch,  half  teacup  sweet  milk.      Boil  four  hours. 

FRUIT  SALAD  DRESSING. 

Mrs.    M.    C.    Crissey 
Three-fourths  cup  of  sugar,  two  egg  yolks.      Stir  well  in  sauce- 
pan.     Add   one-half  cup   of  lemon   juice,   cook   slowly   stirring   con- 
stantly.    When  thick,   add  butter  size  of  a  walnut. 


44 


CUSTARDS. 


CARAMEL  CUSTARD. 

JTrs.   R.   E.  Spring-. 

One  pint  milk,  scalded,  three  eggs,  yolks  and  whites  beaten 
with  one-half  cup  sugar.  Put  one-half  cup  sugar  in  vessel  to  brown 
for  caramel,  add  little  water,  until  thick  syrup,  then  add  the  custard 
with  a  teaspoon  of  vanilla,  and  bake  twenty  minutes  or  until  it  sets 
well  in  the  oven. 

RASPBERRY  CREAM. 

iMrs.     J.    ]McCune. 

Put  two  large  tablespoons  or  raspberry  jam  in  a  fine  sieve, 
pour  over  and  work  through  one  pint  of  cream,  then  whip  it  until 
it  thickens.  Dissolve  half  an  ounce  of  gelatine  and  two  ounces  of 
white  sugar  in  a  teacup  of  milk  and  add  gradually  to  the  cream. 
When  quite  thick  turn  into  a  mold. 

PINEAPPLE  CREAM. 

Mrs.  L.  W.   Morrison. 

One  can  pineapple  chopped  and  two  cups  sugar,  cook  twenty 
minutes.  While  cooking,  soak  one-fourth  box  gelatine  in  part  of 
juice  of  pineapple.  When  dissolved  add  to  the  pineapple  and  sugar 
and  beat.  Whip  a  pint  of  cream,  flavor  to  taste,  add  to  the  beaten 
whites  of  three  eggs,  and  mix  with  the  fruit. 

CREAM  CHOCOLATE. 

Mrs.    Naomi   D.    Brown. 

Put  one  quart  of  milk  and  three-fourths  cup  sugar  on  to  boil. 
When  nearly  boilng  add  four  tablespoons  of  corn  starch  dissolved 
in  a  little  milk,  and  just  before  removing  from  the  stove  add 
well  beaten  whites  of  four  eggs,  vanilla  flavoring.  When  done 
take  out  about  four  tablespoonfuls  and  mix  with  almost  an  ounce 
of  chocolate,  and  then  put  alternately  one  layer  of  white  and  one 
layer  of  brown.  Serve  with  this  sauce:  One  pint  milk,  yolks  of 
four  eggs,  four  tablespoons  sugar.  Put  on  to  boil  and  when  done 
add  vanilla. 

45 


CHARLOTTE  RUSSE. 

M:;      G.    W.    Nord^ren. 
Cook   one  and  one-fourths  cups  milk,   one-half  cup  sugar  and 
one  egg  to  a  custard.   Then  add  one  tablespoon  gelatine,  after  having 
soaked  it  in  water.      Flavor  with  vanilla.      When  cold  add  one  cup 
whipped  cream  and  let  set 

WHIPPED  CREAM. 

Mrs.    J.    D.    Gerlach.  >' 

One  pint  of  rich  cream,  whites  of  two  eggs,  one  cup  of  pow- 
dered sugar.  Whip  half  the  sugar  into  the  cream,  the  rest  into 
the  whites  of  the  eggs.      Mix  these  and  add  teaspoon  vanilla. 

LEMON  FOAM. 

Mrs.  W.  A.  Pinkerton. 
Stir  two  tablespoons  of  cornstarch,  dissolved  in  a  little  cold 
v/ater,  into  two  cups  boiling  water  to  which  has  been  added  one 
cup  sugar.  Cook  four  minute.j  and  add  juice  of  one  lemon.  When 
cool  add  the  beaten  whites  of  two  eggs  and  whip  thoroughly. 
Serve  with  custard  made  of  one  pint  milk,  two  tablespoons  sugar, 
yolks  of  the  eggs,  and  teaspoon  of  vanilla   . 

LEMON  JELLY. 

Miss  Alice  Adani.s. 
Tu    one    package    of    gelatine    add    one    pint    of    cold    water. 
When  dissolved,  add  one  pint  hot  water,  two  cups  of  sugar,   juice 
of  six  lemons  and  cherries.      Stir  slowly   until  well   dissolved   then 
strain  into  molds. 

STUFFED  APPLES. 

Miss   Kate    Pohlman. 
Core  fix  tart  apples  and   fill   the  cavitiej  with   chopped   pecan 
kernels  season   with  sugar  and   cinnamon.      Sprinkle  enough   sugar 
over  apples  to  sweeten.      Pour  very  little  water  around   them   and 
bake.      Serve  with  whipped  cream. 

BREAD  PUDDING. 

Mrs.    T.    A.    Gant. 
One    cup    bread    crumbs,    two    cups    scalded    milk,    one    .quare 
chocolate,  one  cup  boiling  water,  one-third  cup  sugar,  one  egg,  one- 
fourth  teaspoon  salt,  one-half  teaspoon  vanilla. 


KISS  PUDDING. 

.Mrs.  K.  P.  Gray. 
Loil  one  quart  of  sweet  milk  in  double  boiler  with  four  heap- 
ing tablespoons  sugar,  four  tablespoons  cornstarch,  dissolved  in  a 
li  tie  milk),  (pulverized  tapioca  may  be  used  instead  of  cornstarch 
if  preferred).  Allow  this  to  boil  up  then  add  well  beaten  yolks  of 
four  eggs  and  boil  about  two  minutes.  Beat  white  j  of  eggs  with 
a  cup  of  pulverized  sugar,  flavor  with  vanilla,  add  one-half  cup 
shredded  coconut  and  add  this  to  the  pudding.  Beat  thoroughly 
and  let  boil  up  again.  Remove  from  the  fire  and  sprinkle  cocoanut 
on  top  and  serve  with  whipped  cream. 

MARSHMALLOW  CREAM. 

Miss  Maryalma  Thies. 
Soak  one-half  envelope  Sparkling  gelatine  in  one-half  cup  cold 
water  five  minutes,  and  dissolve  in  one-half  cup  boiling  water. 
Add  one  cup  sugar  and  cool,  but  do  not  chill.  Beat  whites  of  four 
eggs  and  add  liquid  gelatine  and  sugar  (a  few  spoonfuls  at  a  time), 
beating  constantly.  Divide  quickly  in  three  parts.  Color  first 
part  pink,  add  chopped  nuts  and  one  teaspoon  vanilla  flavoring 
To  the  second  part  add  one  and  one-half  squares  melted  chocolate 
ando  ne  teaspoon  vanilla  flavoring;  and  to  the  third  part,  chopped 
cherries  and  one  teaspoon  lemon  flavoring.  Mold  in  square  mold, 
and  let  each  layer  harden  a  bit  before  adding  the  next.  .Serve  in 
slices  with  whipped  cream. 

LEMON  CUSTARD. 

Miss  Jennie  Morris. 
Three  eggs,  one  tablespoon  butter,  two  tablespoons  cornstarch, 
three-fourths  cup  sugar,  two  cups  water,  one  large  lemon.  Beat 
the  yolks  of  eggs,  butter  and  sugar  together,  mix  the  cornstarch 
with  a  little  of  the  water,  stir  all  together  and  cook  same  as  boiled 
custard.  Remove  from  the  fire,  pour  in  mold,  spread  the  beaten 
whites  of  the  eggs  on  top,  set  in  the  oven  to  brown,  serve  with 
sweet  cream  or  alone. 


47 


FROZEN  DESSERTS. 

ICE  CREAM. 

Mrs.  Isaac  Beare. 
To  make  one  gallon  cream,  use  one  pint  sugar,  two  heaping 
tablespoons  flour,  one-fourth  teaspoon  salt,  sift  these  and  add  one 
quart  milk  and  cook  over  hot  water  one-half  to  one  hour.  Add  one 
quart  good  cream  and  one  quart  milk,  any  flavoring  desired,  and 
freeze.  When  frozen,  add  the  beaten  whites  of  two  eggs  and  stir 
well,  then  pack.  Four  times  this  recipe  will  make  five  gallons  of 
cream. 

CARAMEL  ICE  CREAM. 

Mr.s.  W.  A.  Pinkerton. 
Make  custard  of  one  and  one-half  quarts  of  milk,  two  cup ; 
sugar,  four  eggs,  pinch  of  salt,  one  tablespoon  flour  mixed  smooth 
in  cold  water.  Brown  one  cup  sugar  and  add  to  custard,  cook  about 
five  minutes  after  adding  the  caramel.  Cool,  then  add  one  quart 
cream,  vanilla  flavoring  and  freeze. 

PINEAPPLE  ICE. 

Mr.s.  Emma  Holman. 
Make  a  cyrup  of  one  and  one-half  pints  of  sugar  and  one 
and  one-half  pints  of  water,  let  cool,  add  juice  of  two  lemons  and 
one  can  of  shredded  pineapple  (or  strain  out  the  juice)  one-third 
box  gelatine  dissolved  in  cold  water,  and  enough  clear  water  to 
make  a  gallon  freezer  a  little  over  half  full,  when  nearly  frozen  stir 
in  one  egg  beaten  to  stiff  froth,  freeze  hard. 

PEACH  ICE  CREAM. 

Mrs.    P.    C.    Kennedy. 
Sweeten  one  quart  cream  and  flavor  with  vanilla,  freeze  until 
begins  to  stiffen,  then  stir  in  a  quart  of  peaches  that  have  been  chop- 
ped fine  and  sweetened.      Freeze  as  any  ice  cream. 

PLAIN  ICE  CREAM. 

Miss    Sophia    Feldman. 
Two  quarts  milk  and  one  pint  cream,  two  eggs,  two  cups  sugar, 
tablespoon   flour,    one   tablespoon    vanilla.      Cook    egg  ,,    milk,    sugar 
and  flour  in  a  double  boiler  until  consistency  of  sweet  ceam;   cocl 
and  add  vanilla  and  cream  and  freeze. 

48 


FROZEN  ORANGE  SOUFFLE. 

Mrs.  Max.  Aszman. 
Cover  one-half  box  gelatine  with  a  half  cup  cold  water  and 
soak  one  hour,  then  add  a  half  cup  boiling  water  to  dissolve. 
Mix  one  pint  orange  juice  and  one  pound  sugar.  Whip  one  quart 
cream.  Beat  yolks  six  eggj  until  light,  add  them  to  the  orange 
juice  and  sugar,  then  add  gelatine  (strained)  and  freeze.  When 
frozen,  remove  dasher,  stir  in  the  whipped  cream  and  set  aside  two 
or  three  hours  to  ripen. 

MAPLE  PARFAIT. 

Mrs.  J.  S.  Johnston. 
Beat  yolks  of  six  eggs  until  light,  add  three-fourths  cup  maple 
syrup.  Place  mixture  on  stove  and  stir  constantly  until  eggs  have 
thickened  enough  to  make  thick  coating  on  spoon.  Turn  into  a 
bowl  and  beat  until  cold,  when  it  should  be  light.  Add  one-half 
ounce  gelatine  dissolved  in  three  tablespoons  water  and  melted  over 
hot  water.  Beat  five  minutes  hastily.  Whip  one  pint  cream  to 
thick  froth  and  mix  lightly  with  egg  mixture.  Turn  into  mold 
holding  three  pints.      Pack  in  ice  and  salt  for  three  hours. 

STRAWBERRY  FRUIT  SALAD. 

Mrs.  Cole  Cleiman. 
Arrange  ripe  strawberries  in  ne^ts  of  crisp,  white,  lettuce 
leaves.  Sprinkle  with  powdered  sugar  and  orange  juice,  cover  with 
one  cupful  of  whipped  cream  to  which  has  been  added  one-half 
cupful  of  mayannaise  dressing  and  one-fourth  teaspoonful  each  of 
salt  and  paprika.  Garni  h  with  strawberries  and  slices  of  lemon 
dipped  in  sugar. 

DEUGHT. 

Mrs.  D.  H.  Holman. 
One-half  pound  white  grapes  cut  in  halves  and  seeded,  one- 
half  pound  of  English  walnut  meats,  one-half  pound  of  marsh- 
mallows  rut  in  cubes,  one-half  can  of  sliced  pineapple  cut  in  cubes. 
Pour  over  this  a  pint  of  cream  whipped  and  sweetened,  chill  or 
freeze. 

ORANGE  CHARLOTTE. 

.Vdaline    AlacKenzie    Gant. 

Three    fourths   cup    of   orange   juice,    the    juice    of   one    lemon, 

one-half  box  of  gelatine,   one  cup  of  cold  water,   two   cup3  boiling 

water,  three-fourths  cup  sugar,  one  cup  of  whipped  cream,  whipped 

after  it  cools.     Serve  with  whipped  cream  on  top  and  cut  like  pie. 

49 


APRICOT  SHERBET. 

Mrs.  J.  M.  Tindall. 

One  quart  can  apricots,  one  lemon,  one  and  one-half  cups 
fugar,  one  quart  water.  Boll  sugar  and  water  together  for  fivo 
minules.  Press  apricot  thru  sieve,  add  to  syrup  with  lemon  juicf^. 
Let  cool  and  freeze  same  as  ice  cream.  Beat  the  white  of  one 
egg  until  frothy  add  one  tablespoon  powdered  sugar,  and  beat  until 
stiff.  Remove  the  dasher,  stir  in  the  meringue,  re-pack  and  let 
stand  till  wanted. 

Mrs.    W.    C.    Roberts. 

Boil  one  quart  water  and  two  sups  sugar  fifteen  minutes,  let 
cool,  then  add  one  quart  can  sweetened  a,pricots  rubbed  through 
eollander,  juice  of  two  lemons,  one-half  box  Knox  gelatine  dissolved 
In  cold  water  and  stirred  into  hot  sugar  and  water;  let  cool,  add  one 
quart  cream  and  freeze.     Make  one  gallon. 


50 


CAKES. 


ANGEL  FOOD  CAKE. 

Mrs.    J.    M.    Dickson. 

Whites  of  twelve  eggs  well  beaten,  one  glass  flour  sifted  four 
times,  one  and  one-half  glasses  sugar,  one  level  teaspoon  cream 
tartar,  one  teaspoon  vanilla.  Add  cream  tartar  to  eggs  when  about 
half  beaten,  sift  sugar  and  flour  together  and  add  a  little  at  a  time 
to  eggs,  put  in  ungreased  pan  and  bake  in  very  slow  oven  45 
minutes. 

BUTTER  CUP  CAKE. 

Mrs.    Alfred    Durkee. 

Yolk3  of  three  eggs,  one  and  one-half  cups  white  sugar,  one- 
fourth  cup  butter.  Add  the  beaten  whites  and  one  cup  milk,  three 
cups  flour  and  two  heaping  teaspoons  baking  powder.  Use  flavor 
preferred.      Bake  in  layers  or  a  loaf. 

BURNT  SUGAR  CAKE. 

Mi-ss    Mattie    Nisbei. 

One-half  cup  butter,  one  and  a  half  cups  sugar,  one  cup  water, 
two  cups  flour,  yolks  of  two  eggs.  Beat  five  minutes,  add  two 
teaspoons  of  caramel,  one-half  cup  flour,  two  teaspoons  baking 
powder,  one  teaspoon  vanilla  and  whites  of  two  beaten  eggs.  Bake 
in  layers  and  put  together  with  boiled  icing  to  which  has  been 
added  one  teaspoon  vanilla  and  two  teaspoons  of  the  caramel. 
CARAMELr — Put  one  cup  sugar  on  stove,  gtir  until  it  melts,  then 
burn  until  it  throws  off  intense  smoke.  Move  to  back  of  stove 
and  add  one-half  cup  of  boiling  water.      Cook  until  a  thick  syrup. 

CARAMEL    CAKE. 

iMrs.    Carrie    Hathaway. 
Three  eggs,  one  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter, 
two  teaspoons  baking  powder,  one-half  cup  milk,  two  and  a  quarter 
cups    flour,    flavor    with    lemon    or    vanilla.  FILLING — One    cup 

brown  sugar,  one-fourth  pound  chocolate,  one-half  cup  milk,  butter 
size  of  Ggg,  two  teaspoons  vanilla.  Cook  until  thick  enough  to 
spread. 

51 


BLACKBERRY  CAKE. 

Mrs.  Ruth  Chapman. 
One  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  one  cup  butter,  one  cup  sour 
milk,  one  teaspoon  soda,  five  eggs,  two  teaspoon^  of  cinnamon 
and  allspice,  one  grated  nutmeg,  two  cups  blackberry  preserves 
and  four  cups  flour.  Cream  butter  and  sugar,  then  add  the  un- 
beaten eggs  one  at  a  time  until  all  are  thoroughly  mixed.  Next 
add  the  milk  in  which  the  soda  has  been  dissolved,  stir  in  the 
preserves  and  spices,  and  last  mix  in  the  flour  and'  beat  well  before 
baking.      This  may  be  baked     either  in  a  loaf  or  layers. 

BLACKBERRY  LAYER  CAKE. 

:\liw.    Edw.    Meredith. 
Six  eggs,  two  cups  sugar,   one  cup  butter,  one  ctip  blackbe.ry 
jam,    one    nutmeg,    four    teaspoons    cinnamon,    one    spoon    allspice, 
one-half  cup  sour  cream,  two  teaspons  soda,  four  cups  flour.      Bake 
in  layers  and  put  together  with  caramel  icing. 

CARAMEL  ICING. 

Miss   May   McAdams. 
One  cup  sugar,  five  tablespoons  milk  or  cream,  one  tablespoon 
butter,    boil   until   thick,    add   one   teaspoon    vanilla   and    beat    until 
cool.     One-half  cup  chopped  nut  kernels  or  raisins  adds  materially 
to  this. 

CREAM  LILLIES. 

Mrs.  Samuel  Colbert, 
Four  eggs,  one  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  stir  and  add  one  cup 
melted  butter,  one  and  one-half  ctips  flour,  one  scant  teaspoon 
baking  powder,  last  add  one  cup  milk.  Drop  on  pan  from  a  -poon, 
leave  plenty  of  room,  keep  apart.  When  they  begin  to  brown 
on  edges  take  out  and  form  in  shape  of  a  lily.  When  cold  fill  with 
whipped  cream.      Put  a  small  piece  of  pretty  jelly  in  center. 

COFFEE  FILLING  FOR  CAKE. 

Mrs.    Wm.    Barnard. 
One-half  cup  butter,  thoroughly  cleansed  of  salt,   two  heaping 
cups  powdered  sugar.      Cream  the  butter  and  ::ugar,  add  two  table- 
spoons cold  coffee  and  one  teaspoon  vanilla  and  beat  thoroughly. 

52 


CHOCOLATE  NOUGOT  CAKE. 

Mrs.  Win.  R.  MacKenzie. 
One  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  two  thirds  cup  sweet  milk 
(scant)  yolk  of  one  egg  and  one  whole  egg,  two  cups  flour,  one 
level  tea-ipoon  soda,  dissolved  in  milk,  teaspoon  vanilla.  After 
cake  is  thoroughly  slirred  together,  add  the  cold  custard  and  stir 
all  together.  Bake  in  two  layers  in  moderate  oven.  Frost  with 
l)0iled  icing  with  nuts  on  it.  CUSTARD — One-half  cup  sugar  one- 
half  cup  milk,  yolk  of  one  egg.  four  tablespoon)  chocolate,  cook  in 
double  boiler.     Get  thoroughly  cold. 

CHOCOLATE  CAKE. 

iNlr.s.  W.  .\.  JaniL-s. 
Two  cups  sugar,  two-thi.ds  cup  butter,  not  quite  two-thirds  cup 
sweet  milk,  whites  of  eight  eggs,  three  small  teaspoons  baking 
powder  thoroughly  sifted  with  three  cups  flour.  Stir  sugar  and 
butter  to  a  cream,  add  milk  and  flour,  and  last  white  of  eggs 
FILLING— Two  cups  sugar,  one-half  cup  sweet  milk,  one-half  cup 
butter,  scant  half  cup  chocolate  or  cocoa.  Let  it  come  to  a  boil 
quickly,  stir  constantly,  take  off,  beat  till  cool  enough  to  spread. 

DEVIL'S  FOOD  CAKE. 

Mr.s.  Wm.  B.  .\Hoii. 
Two  cups  brown  sugar,  half  cup  butter,  two  eggs,  half  cup 
sour  milk,  a  pinch  of  salt,  three  cups  flour,  one  teaspoon  baking 
powder.  Mix  and  add  half  cup  boiling  water,  in  this  dissolve  half 
a  cup  of  chocolate  and  one  teaspoon  soda.  Bake  in  layers.  FILL- 
ING— Two  cups  brown  sugar,  half  cup  butter,  half  cup  sweet  milk, 
cook  to  a  syrup,  then  add  vanilla. 

Mrs.    H.    C.    .\dderly. 

Cream  together  one-half  cup  butter,  one  and  one-half  cup-? 
Higar  and  the  yolks  of  two  eggs.  When  light,  add  one-half  cup 
grated  chocolate  or  cocoa,  melted  in  three  tablespoons  hot  water 
and  beat  more.  Now  add  two-thirds  of  a  cup  of  sweet  mlk  in  which 
one  level  teaspoon  of  soda  has  been  well  dissolved.  Add  two  cups 
floui"  in  which  one  heaping  teajpoon  of  baking  powder  has  been  well 
mixed.  Lastly  add  the  well  beaten  whites  of  the  eggs  and  flavor 
to  taste.      Bake  in  two  thick  layers  putting  together  with  soft  icing. 

5?, 


FRUIT  CAKE. 

Mrs.  L.  H.  Yourtee. 
Two  scant  cups  butter,  three  cups  brown  sugar,  six  eggi  beat- 
en separtely,  one  pound  raisins,  on©  pund  currants,  one-half 
pound  citron  cut  fine,  one-half  cup  molasoes,  one-half  cup  sour 
milk,  stir  butter  and  sugar  to  a  cream,  add  one-half  nutmeg,  one 
tablespoon  cinnamon,  one  teaspoon  cloves,  one  teaspoon  mace,  add 
molasses  and  milk,  stir  well,  then  put  in  beaten  yolks.  Stir  all 
together  then  add  four  cups  flour,  alternately  with  the  beaten 
whites,  dissolve  one  teaspoon  soda  in  milk,  brown  the  flour  and 
measure   after   browning,    add   cup   of   chopped    nuts. 

Mrs.  I^.  W.  Morrison. 
One  pound  of  sugar,  14  ounces  of  butter,  cieamed,  add  12  eggi 
beaten  separately,  alternately  wth  one  pound  of  flour,  in  which 
One  tablespoon  of  cinnamon,  one  of  mace,  one  of  cloves  have  been 
mixed  ad  sifted  together,  one  nutmeg  and  one  gill  of  cream,  grated 
peel  of  lemon,  and  three  pounds  of  raisins,  two  pounds  of  Sultan 
raisins,  one  pound  of  currants  and  one  pound  of  citron,  keeping 
out  a  part  of  citron  for  top.  Bake  for  three  hours  in  pan  lined 
with  several  thicknesses  of  paper,  last  one  buttered.  Leave  in  pan 
until  cold,  rub  with  flour,  dust  off  and  ice. 

FEATHER  CAKE. 

Miss   Lizzie    Beg-geman. 

Dark  Part — One  cup  brown  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  one 
half  cup  sourm  ilk,  two  cups  flour,  one  cup  chopped  raisins  one  tea- 
spoon soda  dissolved  in  a  little  warm  water,  one  tablespoon  molasses, 
yolks  of  three  eggs,  one  teaspoon  each  cinnamon,  clove  and  nutmeg. 
White  Part — One  cup  flour,  one-half  cup  cornstarch,  one-half  cup 
sweet  milk,  one-half  cup  butter,  one  cup  white  sugar,  two  teaspoon  -, 
baking  powder,  whites  of  three  eggs,  flavor  to  taste.  Bake  in  lay- 
ers. 

HICKORY  NUT  CAKE. 

Mrs.    J.    D.    Gerlach. 

Two  cups  sugar,  two-thirds  cup  butter,  mixed  to  cream,  three 
eggs,  one  cup  of  milk,  three  of  flour  with  two  teaspoons  baking 
powder  sifted  in  and  lastly  a  cup  of  finely  cut  kernels.  Flavor 
with  vanilla  and  bake  in  a  loaf  one  hour. 

64 


FUDGE  CAKE. 

Rirs.  Cha.s  Gausman. 
One  cup  sugar,  two-thirds  cup  butter,  three  eggs,  one  cup  milk, 
two  and  one-half  cups  flour,  one  heaping  teaspoonful  of  bakine 
pwder,  one  fourth  cup  chocolate,  one-half  cup  English  walnuts 
(broken  coarsely).  Cream  the  but'ter  and  sugar  and  add  the  milk, 
then  the  flour  in  which  has  been  mixed  the  baking  powder,  then 
stir  in  the  nuts,  then  the  chocolate  dissolved  by  putting  in  a  cup 
and  placing  in  hot  water.  Add  the  eggs  beaten  separately.  FR0.3T 
ING — One  and  one-half  tablespoon.?  butter,  one-half  cup  cocoa,  one 
and  one-fourth  cups  confectioner's  sugar,  a  little  salt,  one-fourth 
cup  milk,  one-half  teaspoon  vanilla;  let  come  to  a  boil  and  continue 
to  boil  about  eight  minutes,  bea*   until  creamy  and  spread  on  cake. 

SOFT  GINGER  BREAD, 

Mrs.   James,   Farmer,   Jeffersonville,   Ind. 

One   cup    molasses,    one    cup   sugar,    half   cup    butter   and    lard 
mixed,   one   cup   sour   milk,    three   cups    flour,    two    eggs,    two   tea 
spoons    (even)    soda,   two   teaspoons   cnnamon,   one  and   a  half  tea- 
spoons ginger,  one  teaspoon  cloveg  and  a  little  nutmeg. 
Mrs.    August    Bosshard. 

One-half  cup  sugar,  one  cup  molasses,  one-half  cup  butter,  one 
teaspoon  each  ginger,  cinnamon  and  cloves,  two  teaspoons  soda 
dissolved  in  one  cup  boiling  water,  two  and  one-half  cups  flour, 
add  two  well  beaten  eggs  the  last  thing  before  baking. 

LANCASTER  GINGER  BREAD. 

Mrs.  E.  P.  Bronson. 
One  cup  of  sugar,  one  cup  of  molasses,  one  cup  of  melted 
butter,  one  cup  of  sour  milk,  one  teaspoonful  of  soda,  four  cups 
of  flour,  two  eggs,  one  teaspoonful  each  of  cinnamon  and  cloves, 
one-half  teaspoonful  of  ginger.  Sweet  milk  may  be  substituted  for 
sour,  in  which  ca^e  use  three  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder.  Bake 
in  a  shallow  pan,  and  cut  in  blocks.  This  makes  a  good  dark  cake 
by  adding  one  cup  of  chopped  raisins,   citron.      Bake   in   deep  pan. 

WHITE  LAYER  CAKE. 

M.    E.    S. 

Two  cups  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  beaten  to  a  cream,  one 
cup  milk,  whites  of  eight  eggs,  two  and  one-half  cupj  flour,  two 
and  one-half  teaspoons  baking  powder,  lemon  or  vanilla  to  taste. 

55 


THREE  LAYER  CAKE. 

Mrs.    B.    Sikes. 
Half   a   cup   butter,    one    and    one-half   cups   granulated   sugar, 
one-fourth  teaspoon  salt,   a  cup  of  lukewarm  water,   two  and  one- 
half  cups  flour,  three  eggs,   or  yolks  or  whites  of  four,   a   heaping 
teaspoon  baking  powder.      Flavor  according  to  filling. 

WHITE  LOAF  CAKE. 

Miss  Cora  Philips. 
One  cup  butter,  two   cups  sugar,   one  cup  sweet  milk,   whites 
of  eight  eggs  beaten  to  a  stiff  froth,  two  and  one-half  cups  sifted 
flour,  one-half  cup  cornstarch,  two  teaspons  baking  powder.      Flavor 
with  vanilla. 

LEMON  JELLY  CAKE. 

Mrs.  Henry  Dandes. 
Two  cups  sugar,  one-half  cup  bu'ter,  sti/  until  creamy,  add 
three-fourths  cup  milk,  two  and  one-half  cups  flour,  beaten  whites 
of  .six  eggs  (in  which  has  been  beaten  a  pinch  of  salt),  two  tea- 
spoons baking  powder  sifted  with  flour.  FILLING — Take  one  cup 
sugar,  two  tablespoons  butter,  two  whole  eggs  and  juice  of  two 
lemons,  beat  all  together  and  boil  until  consist^cy  of  jell.-. 
For  orange  cake,  use  ovange:  instead  of  lemons. 

LEMON  JELLY  FILLING. 

Mi.s.s  Liezzie  Be^geman. 
Grate  the  yellow  from  the  rinds  of  two  lemons,  add  the  juice, 
two  cups  sugar,  yolks  and  whites  of  two  eggs  beaten  separately. 
Mix  the  sugar  and  yolka,  then  add  the  whiles,  then  the  lemons 
Now  pour  on  a  cup  of  boiling  water,  stir  into  this  two  tablespoons 
sifted  flour,  rubbed  smooth  in  a  cup  of  water,  then  add  a  tabL^- 
spoon  of  melted  butter  and  cook   until  thickens. 

MINNEHAHA  CAKE. 

Miss    Lena    Labrier. 
Cream   one  and   one-half  cups  sugar   and   one-half   cup   butter. 
add   three   eggs,   one-half   cup   milk,    two   cups   flour,    one    and    cne 
half   teaspoons   baking   powder.      FILLING — Boiled    icing    with    on  • 
cup  chopped  raioins  or  hickory  nut  meats  stirred  in. 

56 


MARBLE  CAKE. 

Mrs.    John    T.    McBride. 

White  part — Whites  of  seven  eggs,  three  cups  white  sugar, 
one  cup  of  butter,  one  of  sour  milk,  four  of  flour,  sifted  and  heaping, 
one  teaspoon  soda,  flavor  to  taste.  Dark  Part — YoIks  seven  eggs, 
three  cups  brown  sugar,  one  of  butter,  one  of  sour  milk,  four  of 
flour,  sifted  and  heaping,  one  tablespoon  each  of  cinnamon,  allspice 
and  cloves,  one  teaspoon  soda.  Put  in  pang  a  spoonful  of  white  and 
then  a  spoonful  of  dark  and  so  on.  Bake  an  hour  and  a  quarter 
Use  coffee  cups  to  measure. 

Mrs.    Louisa    Hilton. 

White  Part — One  cup  white  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  one- 
half  cup  milk,  whites  of  three  eggs,  two  cups  flour,  and  one  tea- 
spoon baking  powder.  Dark  part — one  cup  light  brown  sugar,  one- 
fourth  cup  butter,  one-half  cup  milk,  two  cupo  flour,  yolks  of  three 
eggs,  allspice,  cinnamon,  and  nutmeg,  one  teaspoon  each,  and  one 
teaspoon  baking  powder. 

WHITE  FRUIT  CAKE. 

Mrs.  Maurice  Mudd. 
Two  cups  sugar,  one  cup  butter,  one  cup  sweet  milk,  two 
and  one-half  cups  flour,  whites  of  seven  eggs,  two  even  teaspoons 
baking  powder,  one  pound  raisins,  one  pound  figs,  one  pound  al- 
monds, one  cup  cocoanut,  one-fourth  pound  citron,  mix  thoroughly 
before  adding  frui*^,  one  teaspoon  lemon  extract.      Bake  two  hours. 

MARSHMALLOW  CAKE. 

.Mrs.  A.  E.  Crisler. 
The  whites  of  eight  eggs,  two  cup  3  of  sugar,  two-thirds  cup« 
v{  buter,  one  cupful  of  sweet  milk,  three  cups  of  flour,  two  heap- 
ing teaspoons  of  baking  powder,  flavor  with  lemon  extract.  FILL- 
ING.— Whites  of  two  eggs  and  sugar  enough  to  make  a  soft  icing. 
;pread  a  layer  over  the  cake  then  put  on  the  marshmallows. 

Mrs.  H.  C.  Watts. 
Two  cups  sugar,  two-thirds  cup  butter,  three  cups  flour,  two 
teaspoons  baking  powder,  one  cup  water,  whites  of  five  eggs,  one 
half  cup  melted  chocolate,  flavor  with  vanilla.  ICING — One  cup 
of  sugar,  six  tablespoons  hot  water,  set  on  stove  to  boil.  Beat 
to  a  stiff  froth  the  whites  of  three  eggs.  When  syrup  will  string 
pou.-  over  beaten  eggs  while  hot,  beat  until  smooth.  One-half 
pound  marshallow;  cut  fine,  pour  in  icing  and  beat  good.  Flavor 
with   vanilla. 


MAHOGANY  CAKE. 

Mrs.  H.  E.  Mann. 
One  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  onehalf  cup  butter,  one-half  cup 
sweet  milk,  two  cups  flour,  one  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  milk 
one-half  cup  grated  chocolate  cooked  in  one-half  cup  milk,  ,coOi 
and  stir  in  cake  last,  three  eggs,  flavor  with  vanilla.  ICING. — Two 
and  one-half  cuPs  sugar,  one  cup  milk,  yolks  of  two  eggs,  two 
tablespoons  butter.      Beat  until  cool. 

ORANGE    CAKE. 

Mrs.  George  Fillers. 
One-half  cup  butter  and  two  cups  sugar  stirred  to  a  cream, 
with  the  yolks  of  five  eggs  added  after  they  have  been  well  beaten, 
then  stir  in  one  cup  milk,  beat  the  whites  of  three  eggs  to  a  siff 
froth  and  add,  put  in  three  and  one-half  cups  sifted  flour  with 
three  teaspoons  baking  powder.  Bake  in  layers.  Put  together  with 
boiled  icing.  oy»  r  which  sprinkle  finely  chopped  oiange. 

PRINCE  OF  WALES  CAKE. 

Mrs.  H.  C.  Cole. 
White  Part. — One  cup  white  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  two 
scant  cups  flour,  one-half  cup  sweet  milk,  one  and  one-half  tea- 
spoons baking  powder,  whiter  of  three  eggs.  Flavor  to  suit.  Dark 
part. — One  cup  brown  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  one-half  cup  soui 
milk,  tv/o  heaping  cups  flour,  one  cup  raisins,  citron  and  currants 
mixed,  yolks  of  three  eggs,  three  tablejpooug  molasses,  two  tea- 
spoons different  spices. 

POTATO  CAKE. 

Miss  Alice  Mehrer. 
Two  cups  sugar,  three-fourth  cup  butter,  one  cup  cold  boilec' 
grated  potatoes,  one-half  cup  milk,  two  and  one-half  cups  flour, 
one  cake  sweet  chocolate,  five  eggs,  one-half  pound  chopped  al- 
monds, two  teaspoons  baking  powder,  one  teaspoon  each  cinnamon, 
cloves  and  allspice.      Bake  45  minutes. 

SUNSHINE  CAKE. 

Mrs.  R.  E.  Sprig-g-. 
Beat  whites  of  six  eggs  and  fhen  half  finished  add  level  tea- 
spoon of  cream  tartar  and  beat  to  stiff  froth.  Add  one  cup  sugar, 
after  it  has  been  sifted  four  times,  then  the  yolks  which  have  been 
well  beaten  and  three-fourths  cup  of  flour,  pinch  of  sar  and  flavor- 
ing to  tajte.      Bake  in  moderate  oven  forty-flve  minutes. 

58 


PORK  CAKE. 

Mrs.  W.  Gilbreath. 
One  pound  of  raw  pork  chopped  very  fine,  add  half  a  pint  of 
boiling  water,  one  pound  of  seeded  raisins,  one-fourth  pound  of 
shredded  citron,  two  cups  sugar,  one  cup  molajses,  one  teaspoon 
soda  dissolved  in  a  little  water.  Mix  these  ingredients,  add  one 
tablespoon  cloves,  cinnamon  and  nutmeg.  Stir  in  sifted  flour  to 
the  consistency  of  common  cake  mixture.  Bake  slowly  for  one 
hou/  and  forty  minutes. 

RIBBON  FIG    CAKE. 

One  cup  butter,  two  cups  sugar,  three  cups  flour,  four  eggs, 
whites  and  yolks  beaten  separately,  one  cup  milk,  three  heaping 
teaspoons  baking  powder,  one  teaspoon  vanilla.  Take  half  bat 
ter,  pour  it  into  jelly  tins,  on  each  put  a  layer  of  split  figs,  seeds 
up.  Bake.  To  the  rest  of  batter  add  two  tablespoon;  molasses, 
one  cup  raisins,  one-half  cup  currants,  one  teaspoon  cinnamon,  one- 
half  teaspoon  cloves  and  a  little  more  flour.  Put  together  with 
white  icing. 

SPICE  CAKE. 

Mrs.  Gus  Knapp. 
One-half  cup  butter,  one  cup  sugar,  the  well  beaten  yolkg  of 
three  eggj,  one  cup  sour  milk,  in  which  is  dissolved  a  good  tea- 
spoon soda,  add  one  cup  seeded  raisins,  one  cup  currants,  mixed 
with  a  little  flour,  also  some  citron,  three  cups  flour,  one  teaspoon 
each  of  cloves,  cinnamon  and  nutmeg.  Lastly  add  the  well  beatfu 
whites  of  three  eggs. 

WHITE  LAYER  CAKE. 

Mrs.  G.  L.  Brush. 
Two  cups  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  two  and  one-half  cups 
flour,  two  rounding  teaspoons  bakirj^-  powder,  one  cup  water,  whites 
of  fou/  eggs,  flavor  with  vanilla.  This  leripe  make;  two  large  lay- 
ers or  three  small  layers.  CHOCOLATE  ICINO  -One  cup  grated 
chocolate,  one  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  milk.  Cook  until  smooth 
and  shiny  on  spoon.      Beat  until  cool. 

SPONGE  CAKE. 

Four  eggs,  one  and  one-half  cups  white    ■ugar,  two  cupg  flour, 
two  teaspoons  baking  powder,  one-half  cup  boiling  water. 

69 


SPONGE  CAKE. 

Mrs.  E.  H.  Glister. 
The  yolks  of  eleven  eggs  well  beaten,  one  cup  sugar,  one  cup 
flour,   add  one  tablespoon   baking  powder,  one-half  cup   hot  water, 
a  little  salt  and  flavor  with  lemon.     A  good  recipe  to  use  up  yolks 
of  eggs  after  making  angel  food. 

WHIPPED  CREAM  CAKE. 

Mrs.   John   P.    Herschbach. 

One-half  cup  butter,  one  and  one-half  cups  granulated  sugar, 
one  cup  milk,  two  and  one-half  cup3  flour,  two  and  one-half  tea- 
spoons baking  powder,  whites  of  five  eggs,  one-half  teaspoon 
vanilla.  Bake  in  layers.  FILLING. — Beat  one  pint  cream  until 
stiff,  sweeten  to  taste,  flavor  with  vanilla  and  add  about  one  dozen 
chopped  English  walnuts. 

WHITE  CAKE. 

Mrs.    A.    Hood. 
One  cup  butter,  onec  up  sweet  milk,  three  cups  flour,  two  cups 
sugar,  whites  of  Ave  eggs,  two  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

Mrs.    Susan    Harmer. 
One-half  cup  butter,   one  cup   sugar,  one-half  cup  sweet   milk, 
one  large  cup  flour  and  the  stifl^y  beaten  whites  of  three  eggs,  one 
teaspoon  of  baking  powder,  flavor  to  taste. 

WASHINGTON  CAKE. 

Mrs.    Andrew    Clelnian. 
One   cup    butter,    two    cups    brown    sugar,    one    cup    milk,    four 
eggs,  one  teaspoon  each  cinnamon,  nutmeg,  all  vpice,  one  cup  seeded 
raisins,  three  cups  flour  two  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

DATE  STICKS. 

Mrs.  Max  Aszman. 
Mix  one  cup  sugar  and  the  yolks  of  three  eggs,  then  add  one 
cup  date^  cut  once  and  lightly  floured,  two-thirds  cup  flour,  one 
scant  teaspoon  baking  powder,  one  cup  English  walnuts,  a  pinch  of 
salt  and  teaspoon  vanilla,  and  lastly  the  beaten  whites  of  eggs. 
Bake  in  long  pan;  when  baked,  cut  in  barg  and  roll  in  powdered 
sugar. 

60; 


POTATO    CAKE. 

Miss  Mabel  McCoiikej". 
Cream  one  cup  butter  and  two  cups  sugar,  add  one  cup  warm 
mashed  potatoes,  four  eggs  beaten  separately,  one-half  cup  milk 
or  cream,  one  cup  raisins,  one  cup  nuts  and  two  cups  flour,  two  tea- 
spoons baking  powder,  two  tablespoons  chocolate,  one-half  tea- 
spoon each  cinnamon,  cloves  and  nutmeg.  Bake  in  a  loaf  in  moder- 
ate oven. 

MEASURED  ANGEL  FOOD  CAKE. 

Mrs.    Louis    Kuhrtz. 

One  level  cup  egg  whites  (from  9  to  11  eggs),  one  level  tea- 
spoon cream  of  tartar,  one-half  teaspoon  salt.  Put  these  in  a  large 
bowl  and  beat  with  a  wire  egg  beater  until  very  stiff.  To  this 
gradually  add  one  and  one-half  cup  ougar,  then  one  teaspoon  vanilla 
and  one  teaspoon  lemon  extract.  Lastly,  gradually  fold  in  one  cup 
Swansdown  cake  flour  which  has  been  sifted  five  time  before  mea- 
suring.     Bake  in  a  moderate  oven  forty-flve  minutes. 

SPONGE  CAKE    FILLING. 

Mrs.   Lizzie    A.   Zang. 
Put  one  pint  of  milk  on  stove  to  boil.      Mix  three-fourths  cup 
sugar  and  two  heaping  tablespoons  flour,  then  add  two  eggs  and  a 
little  cold  milk.      When  mixed  add  to  boiling  milk,  cook  until  thick 
and  when  cold  spread  between  layers. 

CREAM  CAKE. 

Mrs.    I:.    H     Holm. 

Beat  two  eggs  in  a  teacup  and  fill  the  cup  with  sweet  cream. 
Add  this  to  one  cup  sugar,  one  cup  flour,  one  teaspoon  baking  pow- 
der, a  pinch  of  salt  mixed.  Favor  with  lemon  and  bake  in  a 
moderately  heated  oven.     Good  for  layer  or  loaf. 

CREAM  PUFFS. 

Mrs.  Anna  Stahlberg-. 
Half  cup  butter,  and  one  cup  boiling  water  put  on  stove  and 
come  to  boil,  and  while  on  stove  boiling  stir  in  a  cup  of  flour,  then 
t;ike  off  and  let  cool,  add  two  eggs  well  beaten,  separate  the  eggs  and 
beat  each  separately),  and  soda  size  of  pea.  Drop  the  batter  on 
a  greased  pan  and  bake.  When  cool  break  open  the  puffs  and  fill 
with  v.iiipped  cream  flavored  with  vanilla. 

61 


MIDNIGHT  CAKE. 

Mrs.    A.    W.    Eggers. 
Part  One — Put  one-half  cup  sweet  milk  on   stove  to   heat  and 
add   one  cup   brown   sugar,    one   cup   cocoa   or   chocolate,    stir    until 
cocoa  is  melted.      Beat  the  yolk  of  one  egg,  one  tablespoon  milk  and 
add  to  the  hot  chocolate  a  little  at  a  time.      When  all  is  melted  re 
move    from    fire    and    when    cool    add    one    teaspoon    vanilla.      Par 
Two — Cream    one-half    cup    butter,    one-half   cup    brown    sugar    and 
add  yolks  of  two  eggs,  beat  well.     One-half  cup  sweet  milk,  2  cups 
flour  sifted   several  times,   and  add   Part   One  and   the   well   beater 
whites  of  two  eggs,  one  teaspoon  soda  dissolved  in  one  table  ;poon 
vinegar.      Beat  five   minutes  and  bake   in  two   layers.      FILLING — 
Cook  until  it  spins  a  thread,  one  cup  white  sugar,  one  cup  brown 
sugar,   one   cup   water,   one  tablespoon   vinegar;    add   a   few   marsh- 
mallows  and  pour  over  the  beaten  whi*^es  of  two  eggs. 

FRUIT  CAKE. 

Mis.  A.  H.  Trede. 
Cream  three-fourths  pound  butter  with  one  and  one-half  pints 
white  sugar  and  eight  eggs.  Stir  in  one  and  one-half  pints  sif  ed 
flour  with  one-half  teaspoon  goda  dissolved  in  hot  water.  Add  one 
and  one-half  pounds  each  of  seeded  raisins  and  currants,  one-half 
pound  citron  sliced  thin,  all  well  floured.  Add  two  gra*^ed  nutmeg  ;. 
two  teaspoons  cinnamon,  one  teaspoon  cloves;  mix  all  thoroughly, 
and  bake  two  hours. 

SPICE  CAKE. 

Mrs.    Mary    J.    Hart. 
One    and    one-half   cups    sugar,    one-half    cup    each    bu'^ter    an4 
sour  milk,  two  cups  rainns  chopped,  three  eggs,  half  of  nutmeg,  one 
teaspoon    each    cinnamon,    cloves    and    soda.      Mix    rather    stiff    and 
bake  in  loaf  in  moderate  oven. 

NUT  LOAF,  OR  POOR  MAN'S  FRUIT  CAKE. 

Miss  Edith  Staley. 
One  pound  walnut  halves,  one-half  pound  dates,  one-half  pound 
raisins,  one  cup  flour,  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  two  rounding  tea- 
spoons baking  powder,  one  cup  sugar,  four  eggs,  one  teaspoon 
vanilla, m  ix  salt  and  baking  powder  with  flour.  Bake  in  slow  oven 
one  hour,  wrap  in  waxed  paper.  Will  keep  indefinitely,  improving 
with  age. 

02 


TILDEN   CAKE. 

Mrs.   James   Hartley. 
One  cup  butter,  two  cups  pulverized  sugar,  one  cup  sweet  milk, 
three  cups  flour,  half  cup  cornstarch,  four  eggs,  two  teaspoons  bak- 
ing powder,  two  teaspoons  lemon  extract. 

SCOTCH  CAKE. 

iMrs.    Thos.    Robertson. 
One  cup  melted  butter,  half  cup  sugar,  three  cupg  flour.      Roll, 
cut  in   squares  and  bake  in  hot  oven. 

SPONGE  CAKE. 

Mrs.  Oscar  Schroeder. 
One  cup  of  sugar,  four  eggs,  one  cup  flour,  pinch  of  salt.  Beat 
whites  and  yolks  separately;  mix  sugar  and  yolks  and  one-half  of 
whites;  mix  lightly  then  add  remainder  of  whites  and  flavor  to 
taste.  Bake  in  a  moderate  oven.  Good  for  loaf,  cup  cakes  or 
layer. 

SUNSHINE  CAKE. 

Mrs.  K.  J.  Baronowsky. 
Elven  egg  whites,  six  egg  yolks,  one  teaspoon  cream  of  tartar, 
one  and  one-half  cups  sifted  granulated  sugar,  one  cup  flour,  one 
teaspoon  orange  extract.  Beat  whites  until  stiff  and  flaky  then 
whisk  in  one-half  the  sugar.  Beat  yolks  very  light,  add  flavor  and 
one-half  the  sugar;  combine  yolks  and  white  mixture,  then  fold  in 
the  flour  and  cream  of  tartar  sifted  together.  Bake  fifty  to  sixty 
minutes  in  a  slow  oven,  using  angel  food  cake  pan. 

CHOCOLATE  CAKE. 

Mrs.  Fred  Kuppert. 
One-half  cup  sweet  milk,  one  cup  brown  sugar,  one  cup  bitter 
chocolate,  yolk  of  one  egg  boiled  together,  when  cool  add  vanilla. 
One  half  cup  butter,  one  cup  brown  sugar  yolks  of  two  eggs,  one- 
half  cup  sweet  milk,  two  cups  flour,  one  level  teaspoon  baking  soda 
dissolved  in  one  tablespoon  vinegar.  When  first  part  ig  cool  ad.i 
to  last  part  and  beat  hard  for  five  minutes.  Bake  in  moderate 
oven.  FILLING — One  cup  whi'e  sugar,  one  cup  brown  sugar,  one 
cup  water,  one  tablespoon  vinegar  boiled  together.  Pour  over 
beaten  whites  of  two  eggs,  add  a  fev;^  marshallows. 

63 


FUDGE  FROSTING. 

Mrs.   E.   A.   Pinero. 
Two   cups   light    brown    sugar,    one   cup   cream,    one   square   of 
chocolate.      Add    chocolate    after    cream    and    sugar    begin    to    boil. 
Cook  until  it  forms  soft  ball  in  water;  remove  from  fire  and  beat  un- 
til creamy.      If  it  gets  too  stiff  add  a  little  water  to  make  creamy 

ORNAMENTAL  ICING. 

Mrs.    I.    C    Beare. 
One   cup   sugar,   two   egg   whites,    four   tablespoons   cold    water 
and  flavoring.      Put   all  ingredients  except   flavoring   in  the  top   oi 
double  boiler,  mix  well,  then  place  over  hot  water.     Beat  constantly 
with  egg  beater  until  stiff.      Add  flavoring  and  spread  on  cake. 

CHEAP  CAKE. 

Mrs.  Alpha  Dudenbostel. 
Break  one  egg  in  a  tea  cup,  fill  cup  til  one-half  full  wi'h  melted 
butter,  then  fill  cup  with  cold  water.  Two  cups  sifted  flour,  one 
cup  sugar,  heaping  teaspoon  baking  powder.  .Sift  togethei-  two  or 
three  times,  then  sift  in  mixing  bowl,  then  add  cup  of  eggs,  etc., 
and  beat.  For  white  cake  take  two  whites  instead  of  one  whole 
egg.      Bake  in  loaf  or  layer. 

SMALL  WHITE  CAKE. 

Mrs.  Maurice  Mudd. 
One  scant  half  cup  butter,  one  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  mix 
one  and  one-half  cups  flour  and  one-half  cup  cornstarch,  or  two 
large  cup.3  flour,  two  heaping  teaspoonfuls  baking  powder,  scant 
cup  water,  beat  well  add  whites  of  four  eggs  and  one  teaspoon 
lemon. 

CHERRY  CAKE. 

Mrs.  V.  J.  Veath. 
One  and  one-half  cupg  white  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  foui- 
eggs,  one  teaspoon  soda,  three  tablespoons  sour  milk,  two  cups 
flour,  one  teaspoon  baking  powder,  pinch  salt,  one  teaspoon  cnna- 
mon,  one  tablespoon  cocoa,  one-half  teaspoon  vanilla,  one  cup  of 
cherries.  Cream  butter  and  sugar,  then  beat  in  yolks  of  eggs,  add 
soda  dissolved  in  sour  milk,  then  spices,  salt,  extract  and  flour  in 
which  baking  powder  has  been  sifted,  las+ly  fold  in  beaten  white;;  of 
eggs  and  cherries.      Bake  in  Ijvyers. 

64 


NUT  CAKE. 

Mrs.    Maurice    Mudd. 
One    cup    sugar,    one-half   cup    butter,    one-half   cup    milk,    two 
cups  flour,  one  teaspoon  baking  powder,  two  whites  four  eggs,  one 
cup  nuts  chopped  fine. 

GRAHAM  CRACKER  CAKE. 

Mrs.  Ida  Devine. 
One  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  butter,  yolks  of  two  eggs,  one- 
half  cup  flour,  one  teaspoon  baking  powder,  twenty  eight  graham 
crackers  rolled  fine  and  put  with  flour,  one  and  one-half  cups  milk, 
flavor  to  taste.  ICING- — One  cup  powdered  sugar,  one-half  cup 
butter,  cream  and  flavor  with  vanilla. 

WHITE  MOUNTAIN  CAKE. 

Mrs.    P.    E.    Stadler. 

One  cup  butter  (scant),  two  cups  sugar,  one  cup  milk,  two  cups 
flour,  one  cup  cornstarch,  two  teaspoons  Prices'  baking  powder, 
fold  in  whites  of  seven  eggs  last,  flavor  to  taste. 

FRUIT  CAKE. 

Mrs.  R.  B.  Aszman. 
Cream  one  cup  butter  with  three  cups  brown  sugar.  Add 
three  eggs  well  beaten,  one-half  teaspoon  salt,  one  teaspoon  soda 
dissolved  in  hot  water,  one  cup  raisins,  one  cup  currants,  and  last- 
ly three  or  four  cups  flour  (make  dough  stiff  enough  that  it  will 
not  stick  to  the  hands) ;  form  in  small  flat  cakes  and  bake  in  a 
moderate  oven. 


65 


COOKIES. 


COOKIES. 

Miss    Lena    Labrler. 
One  egg,  one  and  one-half  cups  sugar,  one  cup  sour  milk,  one 
teaspoon  soda  in   the   milk,   half  a  nutmeg,   one   cup   lard,   enough 
flour  to  roll. 

Mrs.   Alice   Polilman. 
Two  cups  sugar,  one  cup  butter,  three-fourths  cup  sweet  milk, 
two  eggs,  five  cups  flour,  two  teaspoons  baking  powder.     Roll  thin 
and  bake  quickly.      Season  with  two  teaspoons  lemon  extract. 

Mrs.    Don.    E.    Detricli. 
Three   eggs,    one    cup    butter,    two    cups   sugar,    two-thirds    cup 
sweet  milk,  three  pints  flour,  heaping  teaspoon  baking  powder. 

Mrs.   George    Beever. 
One  egg,  one  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  sweet  milk,  two  teaspons 
baking  powder,  flavor  with  lemon,  flour  to  roll  thin,  sprinkle  with 
sugar  and  bake  in  hot  oven. 

EGOLESS  COOKIES. 

Mrs.    O.    Schenkel. 
Two  cups  sugar,  one  cup  butter,  one  cup  sour  milk,  one  teaspoon 
soda,  enough  flour  to  knead  well,  teaspoon  grated  nutmeg,  any  flav- 
oring desired. 

CURRANT  COOKIES. 

Mrs.    R.     Aszman. 
One  and  a  half  cups  sugar,  half  cup  butter,  two  eggs,  one  cup 
currants,  one  teaspoon  cloves  (ground),  one  teaspoon  cinnamon,  one 
teaspoon    soda   dissolved    in    three    tablespoons    milk.      Make    dough 
very  stiff  and  roll  thin. 

CHOCOLATE  COOKIES. 

Mr.s.   James  Gorsuch. 
Two  cups  brown  sugar,  three-fourths  cup  biutter,  one-half  cup 
sour  milk,  three-fourths  cup  chocolate  melted  over  hot  water,  two 
eggs,   one-half   teaspoon   soda,    one   teaspoon    baking   powder,    pinch 
of  salt.      Enough  flour  to  stiffen  and  roll. 

66 


FRUIT    COOKIES. 

Four  cups  sugar,  two  cups  butter,  two  cups  seeded  raisins,  one 
and  a  half  cups  currants,  half  cup  sour  milk,  four  eggs,  two  tea- 
spoons soda,  one  teaspoon  each  cinnamon,  cloves  and  allspice.  Flour 
enough  to  roll. 

HERMIT  COOKIES. 

Mrs.  Maurice  Mudd. 
Three-fourths  cup  of  butter,  one  and  a  half  cups  sugar,  two 
eggs,  a  level  teaspoon  soda  in  a  tablespoon  of  hot  water,  one  tea- 
spoon of  cinnamon,  cloves  and  nutmeg,  one  cup  raisins,  meat  of  nine 
walnuts,  three  figs,  three  cups  of  flour.  Mix  sugar  and  spices,  break 
in  the  eggs,  then  one  cup  of  flour  before  the  soda,  another  before 
the  fruit,  then  the  last  with  the  fruit  which  has  been  chopped  fine. 
Roll  thin  and  bake. 

MOLASSES  COOKIES. 

Mrs.    K.    Sandifer. 
One  cup  sugar,  one  cup  molasses,  one  cup  lard,  yolks  three  eggs, 
one   cup   boiling  water  with   teaspoon   soda,   stand   until   cool,   flour 
enough   to  make  soft  dough  and   bake  in  quick   oven.      Frost  with 
whites,  icing  flavored  with  chocolate  or  lemon  extract. 

GINGER  COOKIES. 

Mrs.    W.    E.    Songer. 
One   cup   molasses,    two   cups   sugar,    one   cup    butter,    one   cup 
buttermilk,  four  eggs,  one  tablespoon  soda,  one  tablespoon  ginger, 
fiour  enough  to  roll. 

Mrs.  Elias  Feaman. 
One  cup  plantation  molasses,  one  cup  sugar  (white),  one  cup 
lard  and  bu'te.-  mixed,  one  pinch  salt,  one  tablespoon  cloves,  one 
tablespoon  ginger,  one  tablespoon  soda  dissolved  in  a  little  luke 
warm  water,  one  and  a  half  cups  of  cold  water,  and  flour  enough  to 
make  stiff  dough. 

POP  CORN  COOKIES. 

Mrs.  Eugene  Gordon. 
Beat  whites  of  two  eggs  until  stiff,  drop  in  two  yolkg  and  beat 
again.  Put  scant  teaspoon  cream  tartar  and  not  quite  teaspoon 
soda  in  pint  of  flour,  mix  a  cup  granulated  sugar  with  the  flour  and 
then  add  beaten  eggs,  mix  very  stiff,  flavor  with  vanilla  and  bake 
quickly. 

G7 


LEMON  COOKIES. 

Mrs.    T.    J.    Howorth. 
Two  cups  sugar,  one  cup  butter,  four  eggs,  two  teaspoon? 
baking  powder,  lemon  flavoring.     Flour  to  roll  thin. 

RAISINS  COOKIES. 

Mrs.    Chas.    Thies. 
Two  cups  sugar,  one  cup  butter,  two  eggs,  two  tablespoons  sour 
milk,  one  teaspoon  soda,  one  teaspoon  cloves,  cinnamon  and  nutmeg, 
two  cups  chopped  raisins  and  flour  enough  to  roll. 

SPICE  COOKIES. 

Mrs.    K.    A.    Douglas. 
Eight  eggs,  five  cups  sugar,  two  grated  orange  peelings  and  one 
lemon,  four  cups  flour,  two  teaspoons  cinnamon,  one  teaspoon  cloves, 
one  nutmeg,  one  pound  nuts,,  two  teaspoons  baking  powder. 

ROLLED  OATS  COOKIES. 

Mrs.  Wm.  Barnard. 
Three-fourths  cup  butter,  one  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  sour 
milk,  two  eggs,  two  cups  flour  in  which  sift  three-fourths  teaspoon 
soda,  one  cup  raisins,  one  teaspoon  cinnamon,  two  scant  cups  rolled 
oats  stirred  in  last.  Drop  on  buttered  tins  with  teaspoon,  smooth 
with  spoon  dipped  in  milk. 

SUGAR  COOKIES. 

Miss    Josephine    Edwords. 
One  cup  sugar,  one  cup  butter,   one-half  cup  sour  cream,   one 
egg,  one  teaspoon  of  soda  dissolved  in  hot  water,  flour  to  roll.  Flav- 
or to  taste. 

GRAHAM  CRACKERS. 

Mrs    .1.    McAdams. 
Four  and  a  half  cups  Graham  flour,  half  cup  butter,  half  cup 
sugar,    one   cup   water,   one-fourth    teaspoon   soda,   pinch   salt.      Mix 
thoroughly,  roll  thin,  cut  in  squares  and  bake. 

NUT  CRACKERS. 

Mrs.    Wm.    Kuntz. 
Spread  crackerg  with  a  thin  layer  of  white  of  egg  beaten  verv 
stiff,  chop  English  walnuts  or  pecans  and  spread  on  crackers,  sea- 
son with  salt  (or  sugar)  and  brown  in  oven. 

68 


SWEET    CRACKERS. 

Mrs.    (Jarrie    Hathaway. 
Two  and  a  half  cups  of  sugar,   one  cup   lard,   one   pint   sweet 
milk,  two  eggs,   5  cents  worth  oil  of  lemon,    5   cents  worth  baking 
amonia   dissolved   in   cup   lukewarm   water.      Make   pretty  stiff,   roll 
thin  and  pick  with  a  fork.      Bake. 

HICKORY  NUT  KISSES. 

Mrs.    Wm.    Kuntz. 
Whites  of  six  eggs  beaten  stiff,  one  pound  powdered  sugar,  four 
tablespoons   flour,    one   pound    hickory   nut    kernels.      Drop    on    well 
buttered  pans  and  bake  in  moderate  oven. 

PEPPER  NUTS. 

iNIr-s.    Alice    Sauer. 
Four  eggs,  one  pound  sugar,  three  tablespoons  citron  cut  fine, 
two    teaspoug    cinnamon,    one-half   teaspoon    nutmeg,    one-half   tea- 
spon  cloves,  one  pound  or  enough  flour  to  roll.      Cut  in  small  cookies 
size  of  quarter  and  bake. 

SPRINGLES. 

Mrs.    W.    P.   Stine. 
One  pound  flour,  one  pound  powdered  sugar,  four  eggs,  butter 
the  size  of  a  walnut,  beat  the  butter,  sugar  and  eggs  fifteen  minutes 
one    teaspoon    baking    powder.      Roll    and    cut    same    as    cookies, 
sprinkle  with  anise  seed,  and  let  stand  over  night.      Bake. 

WALNUT  COOKIES. 

Mrs.  Ida  Devine. 
One  cup  brown  sugar,  one  tablespoon  molasses,  two  eggs,  two 
cups  sifted  flour,  one  cup  floured  walnuts  and  a  little  salt.  Beat 
eggs  separately,  cream  sugar,  yolks  and  molasses,  add  flour  and 
salt,  then  whites  of  eggs,  lastly  add  nuts  and  drop  by  teaspoonsful 
on  buteved  tins.      Bake  in  moderate  oven. 

GRANDMA'S  COOKIES. 

Miss    Sophia    Feldman. 
One  cup  sugar,  half  cup  buUer,  two  eggs,  pinch  of  salt,  a  tea- 
spoon soda  dissolved  in  four  tablespoons  hot  milk,  four  cups  flour. 
one    teaspoon    cream    of   tartar,    one    cup    fresh    cocoanut.      (If    dry 
cocoanut  is  used,  use  less  flour. 

69 


SAND  COOKIES. 

Mrs.  Kendall  Cole. 
One-half  cup  butter,  one  cup  sugar,  cne  egg,  one  and  three- 
fourths  cups  flour,  two  teaspoons  baking  powder,  white  of  one  egg, 
one  tablespoon  sugar,  one-fourth  teaspoon  cinnamon.  Cream  but- 
ter and  sugar,  adding  sugar  gradually,  and  egg  well  beaten,  then 
add  flour  well  mixed  and  sifted  with  baking  powder.  Chill,  toss 
one-half  of  mixture  on  a  floured  bard  and  roll  one-eigth  inch  thick, 
shape  with  a  doughnut  cutter.  Brush  over  with  white  of  egg  and 
sprinkle  with  sugar  mixed  with  cinnamon.  Split  almonds  or  pe- 
cans and  arrange  three  halves  on  each  at  equal  distances.  Bake 
eight  minutes  in  slow  oven. 

CARAMEL  COOKIES. 

Mr.s.  E.  J.  Baronowsky. 
Four  cups  brown  sugar,  eight  cups  flour,  one  large  cup  butter  or 
a  substitute,  four  eggs,  two  teaspoons  vanilla,  one  level  tablespoon 
soda,  and  one  rounding  tabelspoon  cream  of  tartar.  Cream,  butter, 
sugar,  eggs,  and  add  vanilla.  Mix  soda,  flour,  and  cream  of  tartar 
and  combine  with  other  ingredients.  Mix  at  night  and  form  into 
two  rolls,  put  in  cool  place  and  in  the  morning  slice  and  bake-  as  oth- 
er cookies. 

COCOANUT  DROP  COOKIES. 

Mrs.  T.  A.  Gant. 
Two  eggs  well  beaten,  three-fourths  cup  sugar,  one  table- 
spoon melted  buf^er,  six  tablespoons  milk,  one  and  one-half  cups 
flour,  three-fourths  teaspoon  salt,  two  teaspoons  baking  powder, 
one  cup  grated  cocoanut,  one  teaspoon  vanilla.  Drop  the  batter 
by  spoonfuls  on  agreased  baking  sheet  and  bake  in  a  moderate  oven. 

CHEAP  CAKE. 

Mrs.  R.  E.  Sprig-g. 
To  three-fourths  pint  boiling  water  add  three  pints  of  sugar 
and  boil  thoroughly.  Remove  from  stove  and  add  two  grated  c-mva 
nuts  and  one-half  pint  of  citron  cut  fine.  Mix  one  teaspoon  cinna- 
mon, one-half  teaspoon  ground  cloves,  one-third  teaspoon  ground 
anise  seed,  and  one  teaspoon  soda  with  flour  enough  added  to  above 
ingredients  to  make  a  soft  dough.  Let  stand  over  night,  roll  and 
cut  like  cookies  or  in  squares  and  bake  in  moderate  oven. 

70 


CORN  FLAKE  MACAROONS. 

Mrs.  W.  A.  James. 
Whites  of  four  eggs,  beaten  very  stiff.      One  and  one-half  cups 
sugar,    two    cups    dry    cocoanut.      Two    cups    corn    flakes.      Bake    in 
moderate  oven. 

DOUGHNUTS. 

Mr.s.   ,T.   M.    Dixon. 
Four  eggs,   two   cups  sugar,   two   cups  sour   milk,   eight   table- 
spoons melted  butter,  two  tablespoons  soda,  two  teaspoons  cream  of 
tartar,  half  teaspoon  salt,  flavor  with  nutmeg,   put  salt,  sugar  and 
soda  in  milk,  and  flour  enough  to  roll  out  and  fry  in  hot  lard. 

C  ".  'f        :'    '•  Mrs.     John     Karsteter.  ':■..' 

Three  eggs,  one  cup  sugar,  one  pint  milk,  two  teaspoons  bak- 
ing powder,  salt,  nutmeg.  Flour  to  make  s*iff  batter.  Beat  till 
very  light,  drop  with  spoon  in  hot  lard. 

SNOW-BALL  DROPS. 

Mrs.   J.   M.   Randolph.  ' 

Make  stiff  batter  with  one  egg,  one  small  cup  sugar,  half  plBt' 
milk  and  water  mixed,  one-fourth  teaspoon  each  of  salt  and  nutmeg, 
one  and  a  half  teaspoons  baking  powder  sifted  in  two  and  a  half 
cups  flour.  Drop  in  boiling  fat  teaspoon  at  a  time.  When  nearly 
cold  roll  in  powderd  sugar. 

CREAM  DOUGHNUTS. 

Mi-.s.    M.    C.    Crissey. 
Beat  well  two  eggs,  add  one  cup  sweet  milk,  one  cup  sugar,  one- 
half   teaspoon    salt,    a   little    nutmeg.      Stir    into    this    enough    flour, 
with  one  teaspoon  baking  powder  to  roll  out.      Cut  with  doughnut 
cutter  and  fry  in  hot  lard. 


71 


CANDIES. 


FUDGE. 

Miss    Grace    Bosshard. 
Boil  for  five  minutes  two  cups  granulated  sugar,  one  half  cup 
of  sweet  milk,  butter  size  of  egg,  and  two  squares  of  sweet  choco- 
late.    Remove  from  stove  and  beat  well.     Put  in  buttered  ting  and 
let  cool.     Cut  in  squares. 

WHITE  TAFFY. 

Mrs.    R.   H.    Holm. 

One-half  cup  vinegar,  one-half  cup  water,  two  cups  white 
sugar,  butter  size  of  walnut,  flavor  to  taste.     Cook.     Pull. 

MARSHMALLOWS. 

Mrs.    Ida    Devine. 

One  package  Knox  gelatine,  10  tablespoons  cold  water,  soak 
over  night.  Two  cups  sugar,  10  tablespoons  water  and  boil  till  it 
balls.     Pour  over  gelatine,  beat  until  cold. 

COCOANUT  CREAM  CANDY. 

Miss  Maude   Gant. 
Three   cups   sugar,    one   cup   milk,    two   teaspoons    butter,    two- 
thirds    cup    shredded    cocoanut,    one    teaspoon    vanilla,    boil    twelve 
minutes.      Beat  until  creamy  and  pour  into  buttered  pan.      Mark  in 
squares  when  nearly  cold. 

COCOANUT  BRITTLE. 

Miss   Edna   Smith. 
Three  cups  sugar,  one-third  cup  syrup  and  milk  of  fresh  cocoa- 
nut  and  one  heaping  cup  grated  fresh  cocoanut.      Boil  until  brittle 
when  tested  in  cold  water.      Remove  from  fire  and  pour  in  tins  to 
cool. 

FUDGE. 

Miss    Edna   Smith. 

Two   cups  sugar   and   one-half  cup   milk,   three   tablespoons   of 

cocoa  dissolved  in  milk,  one  third  cup  syrup.      Boil  until  it   forms 

a  soft  ball  when  tested  in  cold  water.      Beat,  add  vanilla,  nuts  and 

two  tablespoons  Hypolite  or  marshmallows.      Pour  in  tins  and  cool 

72 


FRUIT  LOAF  CANDY. 

Mrs.    W.    O.    Roberts. 

White  Part — Cook  two  cups  sugar,  one  cup  fresh  milk,  small 
lump  butter,  until  you  can  pick  up  when  dropped  in  cold  water. 
Pour  in  platter  to  cool,  work  until  creamy  and  add  one  cup  nuts. 

Dark  Part — Cook  exactly  as  above,  only  use  medium  brown 
sugar  instead  of  white,  and  work  one  cup  of  chopped  figs  or  dates 
mixed  into  the  fondant.  Place  one  layer  of  white  and  one  of  dark, 
mold  into  loaf  and  slice  ag  wanted. 

CHOCOLATE  CANDY. 

Miss   C.    M.    Craig. 
Two-thirds  cup  cream,  one-half  cup  sugar,  one-half  cup  grated 
chocolate,   butter   size  of  walnut,   half  cup   molasses,   one   teaspoon 
vanilla.     Boil  until   brittle  when   dropped   in   cold  water.      Remove 
from  fire  and  pour  in  tins  to  cool. 

CLUB  CANDY. 

Mrs.  Homer  E.  Beever. 
Allow  to  three  cups  of  granulated  sugar  one  and  one-fourth 
cups  milk  (cocoanut  milk  preferred).  Cook,  stirring  occasionally 
until  a  little  dropped  in  cold  water  forms  a  soft  ball.  Take  from  fire 
and  beat  in  six  marshmallows  cut  in  pieces,  one  cup  of  grated  cocoa- 
nut,  one-half  cup  each  seeded  raisins  and  chopped  nuts.  Pour  in 
buttered  tins  and  cut  in  squares. 

DIVINITY. 

Lois  .\.  Behrens. 
Boil  three  cups  sugar  and  two-thirds  cup  water  with  one-half 
cup  light  molasses  until  it  forms  a  hard  ball  in  cold  water.  Pour 
slowly  into  the  whites  of  two  eggs  which  have  been  well  beaten 
with  a  half  teaspoon  salt.  Continue  to  beat  until  nearly  stiff 
enough  to  hold  its  form  then  add  one  cup  chopped  nuts  and  one 
teaspoon  vanilla,  and  turn  into  brick-shaped  bread  tin.  When  cold 
cut  in  squares. 

GOOD  TAFFY. 

Mrs.  Mary  St.  Vraln. 
Three  pints  granulated  sugar,  half  cup  water,  half  cup  vinegar, 
two-thirds    cup    butter.      Boil    until    brittle    when    dropped    in    cold 
water.      Do  not  stir  at  all.      Turn  in  buttered  pans  to  cool,  then  pull. 


OPERA  CREAMS. 

Miss  Metta  K.  Duden. 
Two  and  one-half  cups  sugar  and  one  cup  cream. 
Boil  the  cream  and  sugar  together  until  a  soft  ball  can  be 
formed  when  dropped  into  cold  water.  Remove  from  the  fire,  and 
when  cold  stir  until  it  becomes  a  thick  creamy  mass.  Then  cover 
for  twenty-five  minutes  with  a  napkin  wrung  out  of  cold  water.  Re- 
move the  napkin  and  knead  the  mass  as  dough  for  a  few  minutes. 
Add  flavoring  and  a  cup  of  chopped  nuts.  Spread  on  oiled  paper 
and  cut  into  squares. 


74 


PICKLES. 


GREEN  TOMATO  CHOW-CHOW. 

Mrs.  Constance  Conner,  Prairie  du  Itocher,  111. 
One  peck  tomatoes,  one-fourth  peck  onions,  large  head  cab- 
bage, one-fourtli  peck  peppers  (without  seed),  one  ounce  felery 
see  d,half  ounce  white  mustard  seed,  half  ounce  tumeric,  three  lable- 
spoons  ground  yellow  mustard,  three-fourths  pound  brown  sugar, 
three  quarts  cider  vinegar.  Boil  vinegar  and  spices  together  and 
pour  over  pickles.  Chop  tomatoes,  cabbage,  peppers  and  cover 
over  night  with  large  teacup  coarse  salt. 

SPANISH  SLICED  PICKLES. 

Mrs.    Don.    E.    Detrich. 

Four  heads  cabbage,  one  peck  green  tomatoes,  twelve  large 
onions,  three  ounces  white  mustard  seed,  one  ounce  celery  seed, 
one  ounce  tumeric,  one  box  mustard,  two  and  a  half 
pounds  brown  sugar,  one  and  a  half  quarts  good  cider  vinegar. 
Slice  onions,  cabbage  and  tomatoeg  day  before  making  and  sprinkle 
with  salt  in  the  porportiou  of  half  pint  to  a  peck.  Let  all  sim- 
mer slowly  in  kettle  together  for  two  hours. 

TURMERIC  PICKLES. 

Mrs.  .1.  C.  Brown,  Sparta,  111. 
One  quart  chopped  cabbage,  one  quart  chopped  green  toma- 
toes, one  quart  onions,  salt  over  night.  In  the  morning  press  out 
the  water  and  add  two  dozen  pickled  cucumbers  sliced,  three  red 
peppers  chopped  fine.  Boil  one  quart  vinegar,  three-fourths  cup 
sugar,  one  teaspoon  mustard  seed,  one  teaspoon  tumeric  powder, 
about  five  minutes.      Pour  over  pickles  and  seal. 

SLICED  CUCUMBER  PICKLES. 

Mrs.  Robert  Bilderbach. 
Slice  12  large  green  cucumbers.  Prepare  a  pickle  as  follows: 
Allow  a  half-teaspoonful  each  of  sliced  garlic  (or  onion),  grated 
horseradish,  tumeric,  ground  black  pepper,  ginger,  cinnamon,  celery 
seed,  ground  cloves,  allspice,  and  mace,  a  half  teaspoonful  of  red 
pepper  and  a  half  pound  of  sugar  to  each  half  gallon  of  vinegar. 
Put  in  the  cucmbers  and  simmer  for  two  hours.  Take  from  fire 
and  put  in  jars. 

75 


SWEET  PICKLED  BEETS. 

Mrs.  M.   C.   Crisey. 
Boil  in  a  porcelain  kettle  till  done,  then  cut   lenthwise.      Boil 
equal  parts  vinegar  and  sugar  with  half  teaspoon  of  ground  cloves 
tied   in   a   cloth   to   each   gallon.      Pour   boiling   hot   over   them    and 
seal. 

FRENCH  PICKLE. 

Mrs.  A.  W.  Eggers. 
Chop  one-half  peck  green  tomatoes,  one  peck  cabbage,  two 
quarts  onions;  salt  and  drain  over  night.  Add  three  stalks  celery. 
six  green  or  red  peppers.  DRESSING — One-half  gallon  vinegar, 
four  cups  sugar,  one-half  cup  white  mustard  seed,  one  tablespoon 
ground  mustard,  one-fourth  teaspoon  cayenne;  pepper,  one-half 
teaspoon  tumeric  powder,  one-half  teacup  cornstarch  dissolved  in 
vinegar.  Cook  dressing  five  minutes  after  it  comes  to  boiling  point 
Pour  over  pickles  while  boiling  hot. 

SWEET  CUCUMBER  PICKLE. 

Mrs.  A.  W.  Eggers. 
Soak  over  nght  twenty-five  good  sized  cucumbers  in  cold  water, 
then  wash  good  and  wipe  dry  and  slice  very  thin.  Slice  twelve 
onions  length-v>'ise  and  add  to  cucumbers.  Pour  one-half  cup  salt 
over  and  let  stand  one  hour.  Then  add  one  quart  vinegar,  two 
cups  sugar,  two  teaspoons  celery  seed,  two  teaspoons  ground  ginger, 
one  teaspoon  tumeric  powder,  one-half  cup  mustard  seed,  let  boil 
three  minutes  and  put  in  jars  and  seal. 

HOME  CANNED  PIMENTOES. 

Mrs    ,T.    H.    Rickmaii. 
Take  red  sweet  peppers,  seed  and  cut  in  cross  wise  strips  one- 
half  inch  wide.      Soak   in   salt   water   over  night.      Drain   and   pack 
cloely  in  jars.     Scald  vinegar  sweetened  to  tas^e,  pour  over  peppars 
hot  and  seal.      Do  not  allow  vinegar  to  boil  as  it  will  soften  peppo-S. 

BEET  RELISH. 

Mrs.   Robert  Bilderback. 
One   quart   beets   cooked   and   ground,    one   quart   raw   cabbage 
ground,    one   cup   ground   horseradish,    two   cups   brown   sugar,    one 
tablespoon  salt,  pepper  to  taste,  cover  with  vinegar  and  heat,  then 
can. 

76 


GREEN  PEPPER  PICKLE. 

Mrs.    J.   H.    Rickman. 

Twelve  green  sweet  peppers,  twelve  red  sweet  peppeis,  tv/elve 
white  onions,  twelve  green  tomatoes,  have  all  about  the  same  size 
Grind  coarsely.  Drain,  then  pour  boiling  water  over  this  and  let 
stand  five  minutes.  D;*ain  and  wring  in  cloth,  three  pints  vinegar, 
two  cups  sugar,  two  rounded  tablespoons  salt,  mix  and  bring  to  a 
boil,  then  put  chopped  pickle  in  this  and  boil  fifteen  minutes.  Seal 
in  jars. 

GREEN  PEPPER  PICKLE. 

Mr.s.  Elmer  Beare. 
Grind  coarse  and  drain  one  dozen  green  peppers,  one  dozen 
led  peppers,  or  all,  green,  cue  dozen  white  onions,  one  dozen  green 
tomatoes,  having  all  as  near  uniform  in  size  as  possible.  Pour 
boiling  water  over  mixture  and  let  stand  five  mi.|utes  and  drain. 
Heat  three  pints  vinegar,  two  cupg  sugar,  three  tablespoons  salt, 
and  boil  fifteen  minutes.      Seal  in  jars.      Makes  five  pints. 

GREEN  TOMATO  PICKLE. 

Mrs.  Irving  Douglas, 
Slice  seven  pounds  of  g^een  tomatoes  and  let  stand  over  night 
wi'h  a  little  salt.  Next  morning  cook  three  pounds  sugar,  one  tea- 
spoon cloves,  one  teaspoon  cinnamon,  a  few  whole  cloves,  and  one 
pint  vinegar.  Add  the  tomatoes  to  this  and  cook  thoroughly  and 
can. 

PICKLED  ONIONS. 

Mrs.  J.  H.  Bl£.ck. 
Peel  and  lay  in  brine  a  peck  of  small  v/hite  silver  skin  onions, 
leave  in  brine  three  days.  Drain  and  cover  with  a  new  supply  of 
l)rine  scalding  hot  and  leave  in  this  three  days  longer,  then  put 
the  brine  with  onions  over  fire  and  bring  to  a  boil.  Take  the 
onions  out  with  as  kmmer  and  drop  into  fresh  cold  water,  let 
them  lie  in  cold  water  24  hours  changing  once  in  that  time  for 
fresh  water.  Drain  once  more,  pack  onions  in  pint  jars  and  cover 
with  boilng  vinegar  spiced  to  taste  with  blades  of  mace,  white 
pepper-corns  and  a  spoonful  of  sugar  to  a  jar.  Let  stand  in  a 
dark  place  six  weeks  before  using. 


CATSUP,  CHILI  SAUCE. 

INDIAN  CHUTNEY. 

Mrs.  W.  R.  Parks. 
Chop  one  quart  green  tomatoes  fine,  sprinkle  with  salt  and  let 
drain  24  hours.  Add  to  the  tomatoeg  one  quart  sour  apples,  one 
pound  raisins  (chopped  fine),  one  quart  vinegar,  one  teacup  brown 
sugar,  one  clove,  garlic,  one  tablespoon  celery  seed,  one  lemon  with 
peel  grated,  one  red  pepper  and  a  little  mace  and  cinnamon.  Cook 
slowly  three  hours. 

TOMATO  CATSUP. 

Mrs.   Li.   B.    Torrence. 

Three  gallons  tomatoes,  twelve  onions,  two  cups  sugar,  three 
tablespoons  salt,  nine  cups  vinegar,  package  mixed  pices,  one- 
fourth  teaspoon  cayenne  pepper.  Boil  three  hours,  or  until  thick. 
Press  through  sieve  and  bottle. 

Mrs.   G.    Schenkel. 

Two  pecks  tomatoes,  boil  and  strain,  add  four  tablespoons  salt, 
four  tablespoons  pepper,  two  tablespoons  allspice,  two  tablespoons 
cayenne,  four  teaspoons  mutard,  one  quart  vinegar,  one  cup  sugar. 
Boil  until  thick.      This  makes  one  gallon. 

CHILI  SAUCE. 

Mrs.  Sig.  Aszmann. 
Twelve  large  ripe  tomatoes,  four  ripe  or  three  green  peppers, 
two  onions,  two  tablespoons  salt,  two  of  sugar,  one  of  cinnamon, 
three  cups  vinegar.  Peel  tomatoes  and  onions,  chop  (separately), 
very  fine,  add  the  peppers,  chopped,  wth  the  other  ingredients,  and 
boil  one  and  a  half  houre.  Bottle,  and  it  will  keep  a  long  time. 
Stone  jugs  are  better  than  glass  jars. 

Mrs.     Douglas    Harkness. 
One    peck    ripe    tomatoes,    three    teacups    sugar,    two    teacups 
chopped    onions,    one-half    teacup    salt,    three    scant    pints    vinegar, 
three   teaspoons   cloves   and   cinnamon.      Boil    three   hours   and   can 
hot. 


78 


Preserves,  Jams,  Butter. 
EASILY  MADE  APPLE  BUTTER. 

Mrs.    M.    C.    Crissey. 
Pare  and  cook   one  gallon   of  apples,   put   into   sauce   pan  and 
cover.      Set   in   oven   and   cook   slowly.      Make  a   syrup   of   one-half 
gallon  of  sugar;  when  apples  are  well  cooked  down,  add  syrup  and 
cinnamon.      Bake  until  thick. 

QUINCE  HONEY. 

ilrs.    Quals. 
Make   a    thin    syrup    of   granulated    sugar   and    water,    when    it 
comes  to  a  boil  add  three  large  quinces  peeled  and  grated  to  each 
quart  of  syrup.      Boil  fifteen  minutes.      Seal  in  jars. 

LEMON  BUTTER. 

Mrs.  Prazier. 
One  well  beaten  egg,  add  to  this  one  cup  sugar,  stir  into  it  a 
small  lump  of  butter,  grate  the  rind  of  one  lemon  and  add  a  half 
teaspoon  cornstarch  or  flour.  Stir  well  and  put  in  the  juice  of  the 
lemon  and  a  fourth  cup  of  water,  boil  briskly  for  five  minutes  stir- 
ring constantly.  .... 

RHUBARB  JAM. 

Mrs.   H.   E.   Burns. 
To  every  pound  of  rhubarb  allow  three-quarters  of  a  pound  of 
sugar  and  half  a  lemon  sliced.     To  every  seven  pounds  of  rhubarb 
a  pound  of  fresh  or  prepared  pineapple,  chopped  fine.     Boil  brisk- 
ly for  half  an  hour,  place  in  jars  and  seal. 

CRANBERRY  JELLY. 

Mrs.    Maurice    Mudd. 
One    quart    cranberries,    one    pint    water,    cover    and    boil    five 
minutes.      Press  through  sieve,  return  to  kettle  and  add  one  pound 
sugar,  stir  well  and  let  boil  up.     Turn  into  moulds. 

STRAWBERRY-PINEAPPLE  JAM. 

Mrs.  I.  C.  Beare. 
Four  boxes  strawberries,  one  large  pineapple  or  one  can  chop- 
ped.    Measure  and  use  equal  measure  of  sugar.      Boil  until  thick. 

79 


ORANGE  MARMALADE. 

Mrs.  John  S.  Bronson. 
One  orange,  one  grapefruit,  one  lemon,  chop  line  or  put  iliru 
grinder  (rind  and  all),  leaving  out  tough  fibre.  Measure  fruit  and 
add  three  times  as  much  water.  Let  stand  over  night,  then  boil 
one  hour.  Let  stand  till  next  morning.  Measure  again  and  add 
as  much  sugar  as  fruit.  Boil  until  desired  thickness,  about  one 
hour. 

STRAWBERRY  PRESERVES. 

Mrs.   Louis   Pratt. 
Make  a  thick  syrup  of  one  quart  sugar  and  a  little  water,  then 
add  one  quart  berries  and  boil  about  fifteen  minutes  or  until  thick. 
Seal  tight. 


Beverages. 


RASPBERRY  SHRUB. 

Mrs.  Mary  St.  Vrain. 
Scant  quart  vinegar  poured  over  three  quarts  red  haspberries. 
Let  stand  in  earthen  dish  three  days,  strain,  add  one  pound  sugar 
to  one  pint  juice. 


80 


Measuring  Ingredients.      (Flat  Measuve.) 

Flour,  meal  and  powdered  and  confectioner's  sugar,  and  soda 
should  be  sifted  before  measuring.  Mustard  and  baking  powder, 
from  standing  in  boxes,  settle,  therefore  should  b^  stirred  to 
lighten. 

A  CUPFULL  is  measured  level.  To  measure  a  cupful,  put  in 
the  ingredients  until  it  is  slightly  rounded,  then  level  with  a  cnse 
knife,  care  being  taken  not  to  shake  the  cup. 

A  TABLESPOONFUL  IS  MEASURED  LEVEL  A  TEA- 
SPOON FUL  IS  MEASURED  LEVEL. 

To  measure  teaspoon  or  tablespoonfuls,  dip  the  spoon  in  the 
ingredient,  fill,  lift,  and  level  with  a  knife,  the  sharp  edge  of  the 
knife  being  toward  the  tip  of  the  spoon.  Divide  with  knife  length- 
wise of  spoon  for  a  half-spoonful;  divide  halves  cross-wise  for 
quarters,  and  quarters  crosswies  for  eights. 

To  measure  butter,  lard  and  other  solid  fats,  pack  solidy  into 
cup  or  spoon  and  level  with  a  knife. 

Table  of  Weights  and  M->sures. 

One  quart  of  sifted  flour  is  one  pound. 
One  pint  of  granulated  sugar  is  one  pound. 
Two  cups  of  butter,  packed,  are  one  pound. 
Ten  eggs  are  one  pound. 

Five  cupfuls  of  sifted  flour  are  <nie  pound. 
Eight  even  tablespoonsfuls  are  a  gill. 
Four  even  saltspoons  make  a  teaspoon. 

Time  Table  for  Roasting  Meats. 

Beef: — Ffteen  minutes  to  a   pound. 

Mutton: — Twenty  minutes  to  a  pound. 

Lamb: — Very  little  less. 

Veal: — Twenty  minutes  to  a  pound. 

Pork: — Half  an  hour  to  a  pound. 

Turkey: — Of  eight  or  ten  pounds,  not  less  than  three  hours. 

Chickens: — From  an  hour  to  and  hour  and  a  half. 

Goose:^ — Of  seven  or  eight  pounds,  two  hours. 

Tame  ducks: — One  hour. 

Game  ducks: — Forty  minutes. 

Partridges,  grouse,  etc.: — Half  an  hour. 

Pigeons: — Half  an  hour. 

Small    birds: — Twenty    minutes. 

81 


Time    Table    for    Pish. 

Halibut  and  Salmon: — Fifteen  minutes  to  a  pound. 
Bluefish,  bass,  etc.: — Ten  minutes  to  a  pound. 
Fresh  cod: — Six  minutes  to  a  pound. 
Baked  halibut: — Twelve  minutes  to  a  pound. 
Trout,    pickerel,   etc.: — Eight   minutes   to   a   pound 

Time  Table  tor  Bread,  Cakes,  Etc. 

Bread: — Large  loaves  an  hour;  small  loaves,  from  half  to 
three-quarters  of  an  hour. 

Biscuits  and  rolls: — From  fifteen  to      »    'J  ■>'  minutes. 

Brown  bread,  steamed: — Three  hours. 

Loaves  of  sponge  cake: — Forty-five  minutes;  if  thin,  about 
thirty. 

Loaves  of  richer  cakes: — From  forty-five  minutes  to  an  hour. 

Fruit  cake: — About  two  hours,  if  in  two  or  three  pound  loaves. 

Small,  thin  cakes  and  cookies: — From  ten  to  fifteen  minutes, 
watch  carefully. 

Pie  Crust: — About  half  an  hour. 

Time  Table  for  Boiled  Meats. 

Corned  beef,  tongue,  ham  or  veal: — Half  an  hour  to  a  pound. 
Mutton  or  Turkey: — Twenty  minutes  to  a  pound. 
Old  Fowls: — Two  or  three  hours. 

Time  Table  for  Vegetables. 

Green  corn: — Fifteen  minutes. 

Peas,  potatoes,  asparagus,  rice,  summer  squash,  canned  toma- 
toes, macaroni:- — ^Thirty  minutes. 

Young  beets,  young  turnips,  young  carrots,  parsnips,  baked  po- 
tatoes, boiled  sweet  potatoes  and  canned  corn: — -Forty-five  minutes. 

New  cabage,  shelled  beans,  spinach  and  greens,  cauliflower, 
oyster  plant  and  winter  squash: — Sixty  minutes. 

Winter  carrots,  parsnips,  turnips,  cabbage  and  onions: — Two 
hours. 

String  beans  and  old  beets: — Three  hours  or  more. 


82 


Food  for  the  Sick. 


Barley  Water. 

Three  tablespoons  barley,  four  cups  cold  water,  salt,  lemon  juice 
and  sugar.  Soak  barley  over  night,  ov  for  several  hours,  boil  gently 
one  and  a  half  hours.  Strain,  season  with  salt,  lemon  juice  and 
sugar.     Reheat  and  serve. 

Toast   Water. 

Cut  bread  in  quarter  inch  slices,  put  in  a  pan,  and  dry  thor- 
oughly in  a  slow  oven  until  crisp  and  brown.  Break  in  pieces,  add 
water,  and  let  stand  one  hour.  Strain  through  cheese  cloth,  and 
season.     Serve  hot  or  cold  as  desired. 

Koumiss. 

One  quart  of  milk,  one  and  a  half  tablespoons  sugar,  one-third 
yeast  cake  dissolved  in  one  tablespoonful  lukevvarm  water.  Heat 
milk  until  lukewarm;  add  sugar  and  dissolved  yeast  cake.  Fill 
bottles  to  within  one  and  one-half  inches  of  the  top,  cork  and  invert 
The  cork  must  be  firmly  tied  down.  Let  stand  six  hours  at  a 
temperature  of  80  degrees  F.      Chill  and  serve  the  following  day. 

Albumenizetl  Milk. 

One-half  cup  milk,  white  of  one  egg.  Put  white  of  an  egg  in  a 
tumbler,  add  milk,  cover  tightly  and  shake  thoroughly  until  well 
mixed. 

Boiled  Beef  Essence. 

Wipe  one-half  pound  of  steak  cut  from  top  of  round,  and  place 
in  a  heated  broiler.  Broil  three  minutes  over  a  clear  fire  turning 
every  ten  seconds  to  prevent  escape  of  juices.  Put  on  a  hot  plate 
and  gash  each  piece  which  has  been  cut  into  one  and  one-half  inch 
pieces.  Ext.'act  the  juice  with  a  lemon  squeezer  and  turn  into  a  cup, 
set  in  a  dish  of  hot  water,  season  with  salt  and  serve. 

Boile<l    Beef   Tea. 

Diluted  broiled  beef  essence  with  water. 

Oatmeal   Gruel. 

Two-thirds  cup  coarse  oat  meal,  one  pint  hot  water,  one  tea- 
spoon salt,  milk  or  cream.  Add  oatmeal  and  salt  to  boiling  water 
and  cook  three  hours  in  a  double  cooker.  Force  through  a  strainer, 
dilute  with  milk  or  cream,  reheat,  and  strain  a  second  time. 

83 


Egg  Sandwiches. 

Cut  thin  slices  of  stale  bread  in  triangles,  then  toast.  Put  to- 
gether in  pairs,  having  between  the  pieces  thoroughly  cooked  egg 
yolk,  rubbed  to  a  paste,  seasoned  with  salt  and  moistened  with  soft 
butter. 

Wafer  Biscuits. 

One  pint  of  flour,  one  tablespoon  butter,  one  spoon  salt,  one 
egg.  Enough  fresh  warm  milk  to  make  stiff  dough.  Beat  half  an 
hour  with  rolling  pin,  break  off  little  pieces  of  dough  at  a  time  and 
roll  ast  hin  as  paper,  cut  in  large  rounds  and  prick  with  a  small 
wooden  skewer.      Bake  quickly  without  browning. 


84 


INDEX. 


Home  Canning,  Cold  Pack 3 

Soups     5 

Oysters  and  Fish    7 

Meats    9 

Croquettes,  Canapes   12 

Vegetables    14 

Mayonnaise  Dressing    19 

Salads     20 

Bread,    Muffing    26 

Pies     32 

Puddings,  Shortcakes 38 

Custards    45 

Frozen   Desserts    48 

Cakeg     51 

Cookies     66 

Candies     72 

Pickles 75 

Catsup,  Chili  Sauce 78 

Preserves,  Jams,  Butter   79 

Beverages     80 

Weights,  Measures,  Etc 81 

Food  for  the  Sick   83 


LIBRARY  OF  CONGRESS 


0  014  485  235  7  # 


